KprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcRJhhzchlcDr.orcykckhcUm ykp,cjscUncVncIhwrphfmr

KpymcrJhhzcymclhxckprcfmrchlc.gshgrc.gsiprxrcygckprcFgykrwcMk.krmc.gwc hmk
hkprxcu.xkmchlckprcihxdwc.kcghcehmkc.gwciykpc.d hmkcghcxrmkxyekyhgm
ip.kmhrorxnccShfc .scehuscyk,cvyorcykc.i.schxcxr-fmrcykcfgwrxckprckrx mchl
kprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcDyergmrcygedfwrwciykpckpymcrJhhzchxchgdygrc.k
iiinvfkrgjrxvnhxvnccYlcshfc.xrcghkcdhe.krwcygckprcFgykrwcMk.krm,cshf'ddcp.or
khceprezckprcd.imchlckprcehfgkxsciprxrcshfc.xrcdhe.krwcjrlhxrcfmygvckpymcrjhhzn

Kykdr:cDr.orcykckhcUm ykp

.fkphx:cUncVncIhwrphfmr

Xrdr.mrcW.kr:c.fvfmkc6,c2019c[RJhhzc#60067]

D.gvf.vr:cRgvdymp

Ep.x.ekrxcmrkcrgehwygv:cFKL-8

***cMK.XKcHLcKPYMcUXHTREKcVFKRGJRXVcRJHHZcDR.ORcYKcKHcUM YKPc***




UxhwferwcjscX. hgcU.t.xrmcJhq,cTy c.wehezc.gwckprcHgdygr
WymkxyjfkrwcUxhhlxr.wygvcKr. c.kcpkku://iiinuvwungrk






KX.GMEXYJRX’McGHKR

cc*cYk.dyemc.xrcwrghkrwcjscfgwrxmehxrmc.mcygc_yk.dyem_n

cc*cHjoyhfmcuxygkrxcrxxhxmcp.orcjrrgcmydrgkdscehxxrekrwn

cc*cHxyvyg.dcmurddygvci.mczruk,cjfkco.xy.gkcmurddygvmcirxrc .wr
ccccehgmymkrgkciprgc.cuxrwh yg.gkcfm.vrci.mclhfgwn

cc*cRddyumrmc.xrcmphigcmu.erwc(“ncncn”cygmkr.wchlc“nnn”),c.mcyg
cccckprcuxygkrwchxyvyg.dn




DR.ORcYKcKHcUM YKP




IP.KcKPYMcMKHXScYMc.JHFK


LxrwwyrcKpxrruihhwc.gwcpymcfgedrc.xrcygcwyllyefdkyrmncLxrwwyrci.gkmc.
kphfm.gwcuhfgwmckhcmk.xkc.cjhhz .zrx’mcjfmygrmmc.gwckhc .xxscRor,cipydr
pymcfgedrci.gkmckhcx.ymrckpxrrckphfm.gwcuhfgwm,cfgjrzghigckhcpymciylr,
khcprduc.cxfg.i.scw.fvpkrxncLxrwwyrcurxmf.wrmcpymcfgedrckhcmkr.dcpym
iylr’mcgrezd.erc.gwcmrrmcUm ykp’mc.worxkymr rgkcygc.cw.ydscu.urxn

LxrwwyrcrgdymkmckprcmrxoyermchlcUm ykpckhcmkr.dckprcgrezd.erncKprxr
.xrcudhkmc.gwcehfgkrxudhkmncUm ykpcymcghkcmfeermmlfdcygcmkr.dygvckpr
grezd.ercjfkcmfeerrwmcygcmkr.dygvckprc.llrekyhgmchlcRorn


_JHHZMcJScKPRcM. Rc.FKPHX_

ccKPRcPR.XKcHLc.cVHHLccccccccccc7mnc6wncgrk
ccE.XXScHG,cTRRORMcccccccccccccc3mnc6wncgrk
ccFZXYWVRccccccccccccccccccccccc3mnc6wncgrk
ccKPRcYGY YK.JDRcTRRORMccccccccc2mnc6wncgrk
ccKPRcVYXDcHGcKPRcJH.Kcccccccccc2mnc6wncgrk
ccTYDDcKPRcXREZDRMMccccccccccccc2mnc6wncgrk
cc.cW. MRDcYGcWYMKXRMMcccccccccc2mnc6wncgrk
ccDHORc. HGVcKPRcEPYEZRGMccccccc2mnc6wncgrk
cc.cVRGKDR .GcHLcDRYMFXRcccccccc2mnc6wncgrk
ccYGWYMEXRKYHGMcHLc.XEPYRccccccc2mnc6wncgrk
ccUYEE.WYDDScTY cccccccccccccccc2mnc6wncgrk
cc.WORGKFXRMcHLcM.DDSccccccccccc2mnc6wncgrk
ccKPRcEDYEZYGVcHLcEFKPJRXKcccccc2mnc6wncgrk
ccKPRcEH YGVcHLcJYDDcccccccccccc2mnc6wncgrk




ccDR.ORcYK
ccKHcUM YKP

ccJS
ccUncVncIHWRPHFMR

ccPRXJRXKcTRGZYGMcDY YKRW
cc3cSHXZcMKXRRKcDHGWHGcMnIn1




[Yddfmkx.kyhg:c.cPRXJRXKcTRGZYGM’cJHHZ]


_UxygkrwcygcVxr.kcJxyk.ygcjscIs .gc&cMhgmcDkwn,cDhgwhg,cXr.wygvc.gw
L.zrgp. _




EHGKRGKM


ccEP.UKRXcccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccU.VR

cccccYcW.XZcUDHKKYGVMc.KcJD.GWYGVMcE.MKDRcccccccccccccc7

ccccYYcRGKRXcUM YKPccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc38

cccYYYcRORcJHXXHIMc.GcF JXRDD.cccccccccccccccccccccccc59

ccccYOcU.YGLFDcMERGRc.KcKPRcWXHGRMcEDFJccccccccccccccc66

cccccOcUM YKPc.UUDYRMcLHXcR UDHS RGKcccccccccccccccccc70

ccccOYcDHXWcR MIHXKPc RRKMc.cUHRKccccccccccccccccccccc80

cccOYYcJ.QKRXcMFMUREKMccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc112

ccOYYYcEHGLYWRGERMcHGcKPRcD.ZRccccccccccccccccccccccc135

ccccYQcUM YKPcRGV.VRMc.cO.DRKcccccccccccccccccccccccc167

cccccQcMRGM.KYHG.DcHEEFXXRGERc.Kc.cUHRKXScXR.WYGVcccc206

ccccQYc.D HMKcRGKYXRDSc.JHFKcLDHIRX-UHKMccccccccccccc239

cccQYYc HXRcHGcKPRcLDHIRX-UHKcKPR Rcccccccccccccccccc270

ccQYYYcUM YKPcXRERYORMcVFRMKMcccccccccccccccccccccccc282

cccQYOcUM YKPc.EERUKMcR UDHS RGKccccccccccccccccccccc313




ccKHc ScW.FVPKRXcDRHGHX.,
ccBFRRGcHLcPRXcMUREYRMn




DR.ORcYKcKHcUM YKP




EP.UKRXcY

W.XZcUDHKKYGVMc.KcJD.GWYGVMcE.MKDR


§c1

.kckprchurgciygwhichlckprcvxr.kcdyjx.xschlcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdr,cwxhhuygv
dyzrc.cirkcmhez,c.mci.mcpymcp.jykciprgcprcp.wcghkpygvckhcuxhucpymcmuygr
.v.ygmk,ckprcR.xdchlcR mihxkp,ckp.kc. y.jdrc.gwcjhgrpr.wrwcurrx,cmkhhw
v.aygvchfkchorxcpymcwh .ygn

Ykci.mc.cdhordsc hxgygvc.gwckprc.yxci.mclx.vx.gkciykpcvrgkdrcmf  rx
mergkmncSrkcygcpymcdhxwmpyu’mcu.drcjdfrcrsrmckprxrci.mc.cdhhzchl
 rd.gephdsncPymcjxhici.mclfxxhirw,cpymc hfkpcurroympnc.gwckpymci.m
.ddckprc hxrcmkx.gvrcygckp.kcprci.mcghx .ddsc.mcp.uusc.mchgdsc.
ldflls- ygwrwc .gciykpcrqerddrgkcpr.dkpc.gwc.cd.xvrcygeh rce.gcjrnc.
ixykrx,cwrmexyjygvcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdrcygc.c .v.aygrc.xkyedr,cp.wchger
m.yw:c“Kygsc hmmrmcp.orcvxhigcygckprce.oykyrmchlckprcmkhgrm,cfgkyd,
oyrirwcgr.xc.kcp.gw,ckprcud.ercmrr mcmp.vvsciykpcorvrk.kyhgn”cYkcihfdw
ghkcp.orcjrrgc.cj.wcwrmexyukyhgchlckprcuxhuxyrkhxncLylks-hwwcsr.xmchl
mrxrgrc.gwcfgxflldrwcud.eywykscp.wcvyorgcDhxwcR mihxkpc.cefxyhfmds
 hmm-ehorxrwcdhhzncOrxsclrickpygvmcp.wckprcuhirxckhcwymkfxjcpy n
Rorgcpymcshfgvrxcmhg,ckprcPhgncLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhw,cehfdwchgdscwhcyk
hee.myhg.ddsn

Srkcghicprci.mcm.wnc.gw--ghkckhc .zrc.c smkrxschlcykc.gscdhgvrx--kpr
xr.mhgchlcpymcmhxxhici.mckprcl.ekckp.kcprcp.wc ymd.ywcpymcvd.mmrmc.gw
iykphfkckpr ci.mc.mcjdygw,ckhcfmrcpymchigcgr.kcmy ydr,c.mc.cj.kncPrci.m
zrrgdsc.i.xrchlckprcmfgmpygrckp.kcuhfxrwcwhigchgcpymcv.xwrgm,c.gwci.m
sr.xgygvckhcuhuchfkc.gwcuhkkrxc. hgvckprcldhirxmcprcdhorwncJfkcghc .g,
uhucprcgrorxcmhciymrds,ce.gcphurckhcuhkkrxciykpc.gscvhhwcxrmfdkcylckpr
ihxdwcymc.c rxrcjdfxn

Kprcwhhxcjrpygwcpy churgrw,c.gwcJr.epckprcjfkdrxcrgkrxrw,c.cwyvgylyrw
uxhermmyhgchlchgrn

“Iph’mckp.k?”cygbfyxrwcDhxwcR mihxkp,cmuyggygvchgcpymc.qymn

“YkcymcY,cshfxcdhxwmpyu--Jr.epn”

“P.orcshfclhfgwckpr ?”

“Ghkcsrk,cshfxcdhxwmpyu,”cmyvprwckprcjfkdrxn

“Shfce.g’kcp.orcdhhzrwn”

“Ycp.orcmr.xeprwc.mmywfhfmds,cshfxcdhxwmpyu,cjfkciykphfkc.o.ydncKph .m
.gwcEp.xdrmc.dmhc.gghfgercghg-mfeermmncMkhzrmcp.mcghkcsrkc .wrcpym
xruhxkn”

“.p!”

“Yc. cxr-wrmu.kepygvcKph .mc.gwcEp.xdrmckhcshfxcdhxwmpyu’mcjrwxhh ,”
m.ywckprc .mkrxchlckprcPfgknc“Yckxfmkckp.kckpryxcrllhxkmciyddcjr
xri.xwrwn”

Jr.epciykpwxri,c.gwcDhxwcR mihxkpckfxgrwckhckprciygwhic.v.ygncKpr
mergrckp.kcmuxr.wcykmrdlcjrgr.kpcpy --kphfvpcprci.mcfglhxkfg.krds
ghkc.jdrckhcmrrcyk--i.mc.cmygvfd.xdscjr.fkylfdchgr,clhxckprce.mkdr,
ipyepcymchgrchlckprchdwrmkcygp.jykrwcphfmrmcygcRgvd.gw,cmk.gwmcfuhg
.czghddchlcxymygvcvxhfgwc.kckprcmhfkprxgcrgwchlckprcerdrjx.krwcO.dr
hlcJd.gwygvmcygckprcehfgkschlcMpxhumpyxrnc.i.scygckprcjdfrcwymk.ger
ihhwrwcpyddmcx.gcwhigckhciprxrckprcMrorxgcvdr. rwcdyzrc.gcfgmpr.kprw
mihxw;cipydrcfuclxh ckprcxyorxcxhddygvcu.xz-d.gw,c hfgkygvc.gwcwyuuygv,
mfxvrwcygc.cvxrrgci.orc.d hmkckhckprce.mkdrci.ddm,cjxr.zygvchgckpr
krxx.ermcygc.c .gs-ehdhfxrwcldfxxschlcldhirxmc.mcykcxr.eprwckprcmuhk
iprxrckprcuxhoygerchlc.gvfmc e.ddymkrx,cpymcdhxwmpyu’mcpr.wcv.xwrgrx,
jrv.gncKprcw.scjrygvcTfgrckprckpyxkyrkp,cipyepcymckprcorxscpyvp-kywr
ky rchlcmf  rxcldhirxm,ckprcy  rwy.krcgryvpjhfxphhwchlckprce.mkdrci.m
.jd.arciykpcxhmrm,cuygzm,cu.gmyrm,ce.xg.kyhgm,cphddsphezm,cehdf jygrm,
d.xzmufxm,cDhgwhgcuxywr,cE.gkrxjfxscjrddm,c.gwc.c fdkykfwrchlchkprx
ephyercjdhh mchlcipyepchgdsc.gvfmcehfdwcp.orckhdwcshfckprcg. rmnc.
ehgmeyrgkyhfmc .gci.mc.gvfm;c.gwcygcmuykrchlcjrygvc.cvhhwcwr.dcp. urxrw
jscDhxwcR mihxkp’mc. .krfxc.mmymk.ger,cprcmphirwcrqerddrgkcxrmfdkm
ygcpymcwru.xk rgkncYgcpymcjrwmckprxrci.mc fepc.kcipyepckhcuhygkciykp
uxywr,cdykkdrckhcoyriciykpcehgerxgn

Me.xerdscp.wcJr.epcxr horwcpy mrdlciprgcDhxwcR mihxkpci.mce.ddrwcfuhg
khckfxgc.v.ygncKprcwhhxcp.wchurgrwclhxckprcmrehgwcky r,c.gwc.cshfgvc .g
ygc.cjr.fkylfdds-efkcmfykchlcvxrscld.ggrdci.mcmk.gwygvcygckprcwhhxi.sn
Prcp.wc.cdhgvc.gwco.e.gkcl.erckhuurwcjscmpygygvcp.yxcjxfmprwcj.ezc.gw
pr.oydscjxyddy.gkygrwc.lkrxckprcuxro.ydygvc hwr,c.gwcprci.mcmk.gwygvchg
hgrcdrvncLhxcLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhwci.mcmrdwh ceh udrkrdsc.kcpymcr.mrcyg
pymcu.xrgk’mcuxrmrgern

“P.ddh,cvfo’ghxn”

“Irdd,cLxrwrxyez?”

Ykcihfdwcjrcu.dkrxygvciykpckprckxfkpckhcm.sckp.kcDhxwcR mihxkp’m
vxrrkygvci.mc.ci.x chgrncYkcd.ezrwckprcghkrchlckxfrc.llrekyhgnc.clri
irrzmcjrlhxrcprcp.wcp.wckhcu.sc.c .kkrxchlclyorcpfgwxrwcuhfgwmckh
mrkkdrcerxk.ygcx.eygvcwrjkmclhxcpymchllmuxygv;c.gw,cipydrckpymcp.w
ghkc.ekf.ddscwr.dkc.gcyxxrkxyro.jdrcjdhic.kcpymcj.gzc.eehfgk,cykcp.w
fgwrgy.jdsckrgwrwckhcwy ygympcLxrwwyr’mcep.x cygcpymcrsrmn

“Pr.xcshf’orcdhmkcshfxcvd.mmrm,cvfo’ghxn”

“Kp.kcymcmhn”

“Gfym.ger,cip.k?”

“Fgwrgy.jdsn”

“Hfvpkckhcp.orc.cmu.xrcu.yxn”

“Ycp.orcjxhzrgc scmu.xrcu.yxn”

“Khfvpcdfez!c.gwcdhmkckprchkprx?”

“.gw,c.mcshfcm.s,cdhmkckprchkprxn”

“P.orcshfcdhhzrwclhxckprcj.ddsckpygvm?”

“Ycp.orn”

“ fmkcjrcmh riprxr,cYc r.gn”

“Bfykrcuhmmyjdsn”

“Iprxr,”c.mzrwcLxrwwyr,ci.x ygvckhcpymcihxz,c“wywcshfcmrrckpr cd.mk?”

“Vhc.i.s!”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp,chgciph cpymcepydw’mcehgorxm.kyhgcp.w
jrvfgckhcrqrxeymrc.gchuuxrmmyorcrllrekn

“Rp?”

“Vhc.i.s!”

“Vhc.i.s?”

“Srm,cvhc.i.s!”

“Xyvpkcph!”

KprcwhhxcedhmrwncPymcdhxwmpyucxrkfxgrwckhckprciygwhichgerc hxrn

Prcp.wcjrrgcmk.gwygvckprxrcmh rclric ygfkrmciprgchgrchlckphmrc yx.edrm
heefxxrwcipyepcp.uurgcygcdyjx.xyrmncIykphfkcmhfgwchxci.xgygvc.cmrekyhg
hlcjhhzmcmk.xkrwckhc horc.i.sclxh ckprcu.xrgkcjhwsc.gw,cmiygvygvchfkcyg
.cmhdywcepfgzcygkhckprcxhh ,cmphirwc.cvdy umrchlc.cm .dd,cmkfws-dyzr
.u.xk rgknc.cshfgvc .gcygcmurek.edrmce. rcghymrdrmmdsckpxhfvpc.gwckpr
jhhzmcxrkfxgrwckhckpryxcud.ern

Kprcehgkx.mkcjrkirrgcDhxwcR mihxkpc.gwckprcgri-eh rx,c.mckprscmkhhw
kprxr,ci.mcmkxyzygv,c.d hmkcwx. .kyencDhxwcR mihxkpci.mcmhc.efkrds
murek.edr-drmm;cXfurxkcJ.qkrx,cpymcmrexrk.xs,cmhcuxhghfgerwds
murek.edrwncYkci.mcpymcmurek.edrmckp.kcmkxfezcshfclyxmkc.mcshfcm.ickpr
 .gncKprscvdr. rwcrllyeyrgkdsc.kcshfncYlcshfcp.wc.cvfydkscehgmeyrger,
kprscuyrxerwcshfckpxhfvpc.gwckpxhfvp;c.gwcrorgcylcshfxcehgmeyrgerci.m
hgrcpfgwxrwcurxcergkncufxrcshfcehfdwcghkcyvghxrckpr nc“Prxr,”cshfcm.yw
khcshfxmrdl,c“ymc.gcrllyeyrgkcshfgvc .gcygcmurek.edrmn”

YgcwrmexyjygvcXfurxkcJ.qkrxc.mcrllyeyrgk,cshfcwywcghkchorxrmky .krcpy n
Prci.mcrmmrgky.ddsckp.kncKrepgye.ddscjfkc.cm.d.xyrwcmfjhxwyg.kr,cpr
p.wcjreh rcjscwrvxrrm,chiygvckhckprcdy uc. y.jydykschlcpymcr udhsrx,
kprcxr.dc .mkrxchlckprcphfmrncPrci.mckprcJx.ygmchlcJd.gwygvm,ckprc .g
.kckprcmiykep,ckprcurxmhgcygcep.xvr,c.gwckprcuydhk,cmhckhcmur.z,ciph
ir.kprxrwckprcmkhx ncDhxwcR mihxkpcdrlkcrorxskpygvckhcJ.qkrx,chgds
.mzygvckhcjrc.ddhirwckhcuhkkrxcygcur.er;c.gwcJ.qkrx,c hxrckp.gcrbf.dckh
kprck.mz,cmphfdwrxrwcykciykphfkciygeygvn

P.oygvcvhkciykpygcx.gvr,cJ.qkrxcehfvprw;c.gwcDhxwcR mihxkp,cxrehvgymygv
kprcmhfgw,ciprrdrwcxhfgwciykpc.cl.ygkcldyezrxchlcphurncYkc yvpkcjrckp.k
rorgckpymc.uu.xrgkdscygmhdfjdrcuxhjdr chlckprc ymmygvcuyger-gracihfdw
syrdwcjrlhxrckprchkprx’mcrllyeyrgesn

“J.qkrx,c scwr.xclrddhi,cY’orcdhmkc scvd.mmrmnc scvd.mmrmncYcp.or
 ymd.ywckpr ncYce.gghkckpygzciprxrckprsce.gcp.orcvhgrckhncShfcp.org’k
mrrgckpr c.gsiprxrcjsc.gscep.ger?”

“Srm,cDhxwcR mihxkp,”cxrudyrwckprcmrexrk.xs,cbfyrkdscrbf.dckhckpr
exymymnc“Kprsc.xrcp.gvygvcwhigcshfxcj.ezn”

“Whigc scj.ez?cIps,cjdrmmc scmhfd!”cPymcdhxwmpyuckrmkrwckprcmk.kr rgk
.gwclhfgwcyk--dyzrc.ddcJ.qkrx’mcmk.kr rgkm--.eefx.krnc“Ips,cjdrmmc s
mhfd,cmhckprsc.xr!cWhcshfczghi,cJ.qkrx,cYcxr.ddscjrdyrorcYc fmkcjr
vxhiygvc.jmrgk- ygwrwn”cPrcp.fdrwcygckprcmd.ez,cmrefxrwckprcuyger-gra,
.wtfmkrwckpr cjr. ygvdsncPymcyxxyk.jydykscp.wco.gymprwcdyzrckprcwrichll
hgrchlcpymcxhmrmnc“Kp.gzcshf,cJ.qkrx,ckp.gzcshfncShfc.xrcygo.df.jdrn”

.gwciykpc.cx.wy.gkcm ydrcDhxwcR mihxkpc .wrcjfhs.gkdsclhxckprcwhhx,crg
xhfkrclhxcVhw’mc.yxc.gwckprcmheyrkschlc e.ddymkrxncKprc hor rgkcwxri
lxh cJ.qkrxc.ghkprxcehfvp--.cmp.xu,curxr ukhxscehfvpckpymcky r;c.gw
pymcdhxwmpyucu.fmrw,cxrdfek.gkds,cdyzrc.cwhvcipymkdrwcj.ezclxh ckpr
ep.mrnc.cedhfwclrddchorxckprcmfggygrmmchlcpymc hhwnc.w yx.jdrc.mcJ.qkrx
i.mcygcmhc .gscxrmurekm,cprcp.wc.ckrgwrgesckhcihxxscpy c.kcky rm;c.gw
mh rkpygvckhdwcDhxwcR mihxkpckp.kcprci.mcvhygvckhcihxxscpy cghin

“Kprce.xciyddcjrc.kckprcwhhx,”cm.ywcJ.qkrxciykpcbfyrkclyx grmm,c“.kckih
mp.xun”

“E.x?cIp.kce.x?”

“Kprce.xckhck.zrcshfckhckprcmk.kyhgn”

“Mk.kyhg?cIp.kcmk.kyhg?”

XfurxkcJ.qkrxcuxrmrxorwcpymce.d ncKprxrcirxrcky rmciprgcprclhfgwcpym
r udhsrxc.cdykkdrckxsygv,cjfkcprcgrorxcmphirwcykn

“Shfcp.orcurxp.umclhxvhkkrg,cDhxwcR mihxkp,ckp.kcshfc.xx.gvrwciykpcD.ws
Ehgmk.gerckhcvhckhcDhgwhgckpymc.lkrxghhgn”

“VhckhcDhgwhg!”cv.murwcDhxwcR mihxkp,c.uu.ddrwnc“Ygcir.kprxcdyzrckpym?
Iykpc.ckphfm.gwckpygvmckhc.kkrgwckhcygckprcv.xwrg?cIp.kc.curxlrekds
uxruhmkrxhfmcghkyhg!cIpscmphfdwcYcvhckhcDhgwhg?cYcp.krcDhgwhgn”

“Shfc.xx.gvrwciykpcD.wscEhgmk.gerckp.kcshfcihfdwcvyorc xnc eKhwwcdfgep
kh- hxxhic.kcshfxcedfjn”

“Iphckprcwroydcymc xnc eKhww?”

“Kprcirdd-zghigcE.g.wy.gcuhrkn”

“Grorxcpr.xwchlcpy n”

“D.wscEhgmk.gercp.mcdhgvcjrrgc.cvxr.kc.w yxrxchlcpymcihxzncMprcixhkr
ygoykygvcpy ,cmphfdwcprcrorxceh rckhcRgvd.gw,ckhcu.sc.coymykckh
Jd.gwygvmncPrcymcghicygcDhgwhgc.gwcymckhceh rcwhigckh- hxxhiclhxckih
irrzmncD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcmfvvrmkyhgci.mckp.k,c.mc.ceh udy rgkckhc xn
 eKhww’mcr ygrgercygckprcihxdwchlcdykrx.kfxr,cshfcmphfdwc rrkcpy cyg
Dhgwhgc.gwcjxygvcpy cj.ezcprxrcshfxmrdln”

DhxwcR mihxkpcxr r jrxrwcghincPrc.dmhcxr r jrxrwckp.kckpymcuhmykyords
yglrxg.dcmepr rcp.wcghkcjrrgcpymcmymkrxcEhgmk.ger’mcygckprclyxmkcud.ern
Ykci.mcJ.qkrxciphcp.wc .wrckprcmfvvrmkyhg,c.gwcEhgmk.gercp.wc.uuxhorwn
Prc .wrcfmrchlckprcxrehorxrwcuyger-grackhcvdhirxckpxhfvpckpr c.kcpym
mrexrk.xs;c.gwcghkclhxckprclyxmkcky rcygcxrergkc hgkpmci.mc.i.xrchl
.clrrdygvckp.kckpymclrddhicJ.qkrxci.mcjreh ygvc.cw.mprwcygldyekyhgn
J.qkrxci.mcvrkkygvc.jhorcpy mrdl,ckpxhiygvcpymciryvpkc.jhfk,c .zygv
py mrdlc.cehglhfgwrwcgfym.gerncPrciymprwcprcehfdwcvrkcxywchlckprc .gn
Jfkciprxrcehfdwcprclygwc.gc.wrbf.krcmfeermmhx?cKp.kci.mckprckxhfjdrn
Iykpc.ddcpymcwx.ij.ezm,cJ.qkrxci.mcrllyeyrgkncGrorxkprdrmm,clhxc.
 h rgkcDhxwcR mihxkpckhsrwciykpckprcudr.m.gkcwxr. chlcwym ymmygvcpy n
.gwcykcymcuhmmyjdr,cmfepci.mcpymcrq.murx.kyhg,ckp.kcprc yvpkchgckpym
hee.myhgcp.orcwhgrcmh rkpygvcux.ekye.dcygckp.kcwyxrekyhg,cp.wcghkckpr
dyjx.xscwhhxc.kckpymc h rgkchurgrwclhxckprckpyxwcky r,ckhc.w ykcsrk
.ghkprxcygkxfwrx--.kckprcmyvpkchlciph cpymcdhxwmpyu’mc ydyk.gkc hhw
l.wrwcir.zdsn

“Hp--p.ddh,cEhggyr!”cprcm.yw,cvfydkyds,cdyzrc.cm .ddcjhsce.fvpkcygckpr
t. cefujh.xwncMh rphicpymcmymkrxc.di.smcp.wckpymcrllrekcfuhgcpy n

Hlc.ddckphmrciphcp.wcrgkrxrwckprcdyjx.xsckp.kc hxgygvckprcgric.xxyo.d
i.mckprcjrmkcihxkpcdhhzygvc.kncDhxwcR mihxkpci.mck.ddc.gwcdr.gc.gw
mex.vvs;cXfurxkcJ.qkrxckpyez-mrkc.gwcp.gwye.uurwcjsckp.kco.vfrdscvxfjjs
.uur.x.gercipyepcymcuxrmrgkrwcjscmi.xkpscshfgvc rgchlcj.wceh udrqyhg;
.gwcrorgcJr.ep,ckphfvpcwyvgylyrw,c.gwcLxrwwyr,ckphfvpcmdy ,cihfdw
grorxcp.orcvhkcl.xcygc.cjr.fksceh urkykyhgncJfkcD.wscEhgmk.gercZrrjdr
xr.ddsckhhzckprcrsrncMprci.mc.cmkxyzygvdscp.gwmh rcih .gcygckpr
 ywwdrclhxkyrmncMprcp.wc.cl.yx,cjxh.wcjxhi,ckrrkpchlc.curxlrekcrorg
ipykrgrmm,c.gwckprce.xxy.vrchlc.gcr uxrmmncPrxcrsrmcirxrcd.xvrc.gw
vxrs,c.gwcvrgkdr--.gwcygeywrgk.ddsc ymdr.wygv,clhxcvrgkdrci.mcp.xwds
kprc.wtrekyorcipyepc.gsjhwsciphczgricprxcihfdwcp.orc.uudyrwckhcD.ws
Ehgmk.gerncKphfvpcvrgy.dcrghfvpciprgcmprcvhkcprxci.s,chgckprcx.xr
hee.myhgmciprgcurhudrc.kkr ukrwckhckpi.xkcprxcmprci.mc.ukckhceh uhxk
prxmrdlcygc.c .ggrxcxr ygymergkchlcEdrhu.kx.chgchgrchlckprcd.kkrx’mcj.w
 hxgygvmn

“YcphurcYc. cghkcwymkfxjygvcshf,”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.gerciykpc.cjxyvpk
m ydrnc“Yctfmkce. rcygckhckrddcshfckhcjrcmfxrcghkckhclhxvrk,cEd.xrger,
kp.kcshfc.xrcvhygvckhcDhgwhgckpymc.lkrxghhgckhc rrkc xnc eKhwwn”

“Yci.mctfmkckrddygvcDhxwcR mihxkp,”cm.ywcJ.qkrx,c“kp.kckprce.xcihfdwcjr
.kckprcwhhxc.kckihn”

“Kp.gzcshf,c xncJ.qkrxncHlcehfxmrcYc yvpkcp.orczghigckp.kcshfcihfdwcghk
lhxvrkncShfc.xrcmhcihgwrxlfddsce.u.jdrncYcwhg’kczghicip.kcygckprcihxdw
ircihfdwcwhciykphfkcshfn”

KprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxcjhirwncJfk,ckphfvpcvx.kylyrw,cprci.mcghk
horxiprd rwcjsckprckxyjfkrncKprcm. rckphfvpkcp.wchlkrgcheefxxrwckhcpy 
ygwrurgwrgkdsn

“Ylcshfciyddcrqefmrc r,”cprcm.yw,c“Ycp.orchgrchxckihckpygvmckhc.kkrgw
khcncncn”

“Erxk.ygds,c xncJ.qkrxn”

KprcRllyeyrgkcHgrciykpwxrickpxhfvpckprcwhhxcygckprcjhhzmprdlncPr
xr.dymrwckp.kcpymcr udhsrxci.mcygclx.ekyhfmc hhw,cjfkczgrickp.kcprci.m
dr.oygvcpy cygce.u.jdrcp.gwmn

DhxwcR mihxkpckfxgrwclxh ckprciygwhi,chfkchlcipyepcprcp.wcjrrgcv.aygv
iykpc.cud.ygkyorcwrk.ep rgkn

“Dhhzcprxr,cEhggyr,”cprcvxf jdrwclrrjdsnc“ShfczghicYcp.krcdykrx.xs
lrddhimncYk’mcj.wcrghfvpcp.oygvckpr cygckprcphfmr,cjfkciprgcykceh rmckh
vhygvckhcDhgwhgckhclrkepc’r cncncn”

Prcmpflldrwc hxhmrdsncYkci.mc.curxurkf.dcvxyro.gerchlcpym,ckpym
ux.ekyerchlcpymcmymkrx’mchlcehddrekygvcdykrx.xscerdrjxykyrmc.gwcwf uygv
kpr cwhigcygckprcph rclhxcygwrkrx yg.krcoymykmncShfcgrorxczgriciprg
mprci.mcvhygvckhcmuxygvc.ghkprxchgcshfnc.dxr.wscmygerckprcjrvyggygvchl
kprcsr.xcprcp.wcmfllrxrwclxh c.cxhfgwcwhargchlckprcmureyrmc.kcjxyrl
ygkrxo.dm;c.gwc.kckpymcorxsc h rgkcpymcdylrci.mcjrygvcuhymhgrwcjsckpr
l.ekckp.kcJd.gwygvmci.mcmprdkrxygvc.cerxk.ygc ymmc.ydrrgcUr.ors,ckpr
 rxrckphfvpkchlciph ci.mcrghfvpckhckfxgckprcmfgmpygrchllc.mciykpc.ck.un

“E.g’kcmk.gwcdykrx.xsclrddhim,”cuxherrwrwcpymcdhxwmpyunc“Grorxcehfdwn
.gw,cjscThor,cdykrx.xsclr .drmc.xrcihxmrnc ymmcUr.orscncncn”cPrxrcihxwm
kr uhx.xydscl.ydrwckprchigrxchlcJd.gwygvmnc“ ymmcUr.orscncncn”cpr
xrmf rwc.lkrxc.gcrdhbfrgkcu.fmrnc“Iphcymc ymmcUr.ors?”

“ scwr.xcEd.xrger,”cxrudyrwcD.wscEhgmk.gerckhdrx.gkds,clhxckprclygr
 hxgygvcp.wc .wrcprxc ydwc.gwc. y.jdr,c“ylcshfcwhcghkczghickp.kc.ydrrg
ymchgrchlckprcdr.wygvcuhrkrmmrmchlckprcshfgvrxcmephhd,cshfc fmkcjrcorxs
yvghx.gkn”

“Ycwhg’kc r.gckp.kncYczghicmprcixykrmcuhrkxsncYc r.gciphc_ym_cmpr?
Shfcmfwwrgdscuxhwferwcprxcprxrcdyzrc.cx.jjykchfkchlc.cp.k,”cm.ywcpym
dhxwmpyu,cygc.ckhgrchlcmkxhgvcxrmrgk rgknc“Iprxrcwywcshfclygwcprx?”

“Yclyxmkc .wrc.ydrrg’mc.ebf.ygk.gerchgc.gc.kd.gkyecdygrxciprgcThrc.gwcY
irxrceh ygvcj.ezclxh chfxckxyucxhfgwckprcihxdwncMprci.mcorxsczygwckhc r
iprgcYci.mclrrdygvckprc hkyhgchlckprcormmrdncncncncYlcshfc r.gcip.kcym
prxcl. yds,cYckpygzc.ydrrgckhdwc rchgerckp.kcmprci.mcehggrekrwciykpckpr
Xfkd.gwmpyxrcUr.orsmn”

“Grorxcpr.xwchlckpr !”cmg.uurwcDhxwcR mihxkpnc“.gw,cylckprs’xrc.gskpygv
dyzrc ymmcUr.ors,cVhwcprducXfkd.gwmpyxr!”

Kx.gbfydc.mcD.wscEhgmk.ger’mc hhwci.mckpymc hxgygv,c.gch yghfm
mkhgygrmmce. rcygkhcprxcvxrscrsrmc.kckprmrcihxwm,c.gwckprxrcymcdykkdr
whfjkckp.kcygc.ghkprxcygmk.gkcmprcihfdwcp.orcwymep.xvrwc.kcprxc fkyghfm
jxhkprxchgrchlckphmrcmp.kkrxygvceh r-j.ezmclhxcipyepcmprcp.wcjrrg
erdrjx.krwcygckprcl. ydsclxh cgfxmrxscw.smchgi.xw;cjfkc.kckpymctfgekfxr
kprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxc.uur.xrwc.v.ygckpxhfvpckprcjhhzmprdln

“Rqefmrc r,”cm.ywcJ.qkrx,cmrefxygvc.kkrgkyhgciykpc.cld.mpchlcpym
murek.edrmnc“Yclhxvhkckhc rgkyhg,cDhxwcR mihxkp,ckp.k,ckhcmfyk
rorxsjhws’mcehgorgyrger,cYcp.orc.xx.gvrwckp.kc ymmcP.ddyw.scmp.ddce.dd
khcmrrcshfc.kcshfxcedfjckh- hxxhic.lkrxcdfgepn”

“VhhwcDhxw,cJ.qkrx!”cKprcp.x.mmrwcurrxcmk.xkrwc.mcylcprcp.wcjrrgcjykkrg
ygckprcdrvnc“Iph’mc ymmcP.ddyw.s?cGhkc.ghkprxcdykrx.xsclr .dr?”

“ ymmcP.ddyw.scymckprcshfgvcd.wsciphcymceh ygvckhcJd.gwygvmckh
e.k.dhvfrckprcdyjx.xsn”

“E.k.dhvfrckprcdyjx.xs?cIp.kcwhrmcykci.gkce.k.dhvfygvclhx?”

“Ykcp.mcghkcjrrgcwhgrcmygerckprcsr.xc1885n”

“Irdd,c.gwcdhhzcphicmudrgwywdscir’orcvhkc.dhgvciykphfkcyk,”cm.ywcDhxw
R mihxkpc.efkrdsn

“Whg’kcjrcmhcxywyefdhfm,cEd.xrger,”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.ger,c.gghsrwnc“Kpr
e.k.dhvfrchlc.cvxr.kcdyjx.xscdyzrckpymc fmkcjrcjxhfvpkcfuckhcw.krn”
Mprc horwckhckprcwhhxnc“Ycwhciympcshfcihfdwckxsckhci.zrcfuc.gwck.zr
.gcygkrxrmkcygckpygvmncYlcykci.mg’kclhxc xncJ.qkrx,cYcwhg’kczghicip.k
ihfdwcp.uurgn”

.gwciykpc.cjr. ygvcvd.gerchlc.uuxho.dc.kcprxc.ddscmprcdrlkckprcxhh n
J.qkrx,cehdwdsc.fmkrxr,cxrkfxgrwckhckprcmfjtrekcfgwrxcwymefmmyhgn

“Ycp.orcixykkrgckhc ymmcP.ddyw.scmfvvrmkygvckih-kpyxksc.mc.cmfyk.jdr
phfxclhxckprcygkrxoyrin”

“Jfkcdhhzcprxrcncncn”

“Shfciyddciympckhcmrrcprxcjrlhxrcwrlygykrdscehglyx ygvckprcrgv.vr rgkn”

“Srm,cjfkcdhhzcprxr,cYciympcshfcihfdwg’kcvhcksygvc rcfuciykpc.ddckprmr
.uuhygk rgkmn”

“Yckphfvpkckp.kc.mcshfcirxrcvhygvckhcDhgwhgckhc rrkc xnc eKhwwcncncn”

“JfkcY’ cghkcvhygvckhcDhgwhgckhc rrkc xnc eKhww,”cexyrwcDhxwcR mihxkp
iykpcir.zclfxsnc“Yk’mchfkchlckprcbfrmkyhgncYce.g’kcuhmmyjdscdr.or
Jd.gwygvmncKprcir.kprxc .scjxr.zc.kc.gsc h rgkncYcwhg’kci.gkckhc ymmc.
w.schlcykn”

“Kprc.xx.gvr rgkmc.xrc.ddc .wrn”

“Mrgwckprclrddhic.ciyxrcncncnc‘fg.ohyw.jdscwrk.ygrwn’”

“Ycehfdwcghkck.zrckprcxrmuhgmyjydyksclhxcmfepc.cehfxmrc smrdl,”cm.yw
J.qkrxcehdwdsnc“Jfkcuhmmyjdscylcshfcirxrckhc .zrckprcmfvvrmkyhgckhcD.ws
Ehgmk.gercncncn”

“Hp,cw.mpcyk!”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkpcfgp.uuyds,c.kchgercxr.dymygvckpr
y uhmmyjydykschlckprcmepr rnc“Hp,cirdd,cylcY’orcvhkckhcvh,cY’orcvhkckh
vh,”cprcm.ywc.lkrxc.cvdhh scu.fmrnc“Jfkckhcdr.orc scv.xwrgc.gwcmkricyg
Dhgwhgc.kckpymcky rchlckprcsr.xcncncn”

Kprxrcmrr rwcghkpygvclfxkprxckhcm.schgckprcmfjtrekncPrckhhzchllcpym
vd.mmrm,cuhdymprwckpr ,cufkckpr chgc.v.yg,c.gwcmpflldrwckhckprcwhhxn
.lkrxc.dd,cprcxrldrekrw,crorgckphfvpckprce.xci.mceh ygvclhxcpy c.kckih,
.kcdr.mkcprcp.wckprc hxgygv,c.gwcprcuxhuhmrwckhc .zrckprc hmkchlcykn
Jfkcpymclyxmkce.xrdrmmcx.ukfxrc.kckprcuxhmurekchlcuhkkrxygvc. hgvcpym
ldhirxmci.mcwy  rw,c.gwcihfdwcghkcjrcxre.ukfxrwncPrcwywcghkcrgkrxk.yg
.gscuxhtrekcmhc .wc.mckprcywr.chlcwrlsygvcpymcmymkrxcEhgmk.ger,cjfkcpr
lrdkcrqkxr rdscjykkrxc.jhfkckprciphdrc.ll.yxncEhglhfgwcEhgmk.ger!cncncn
W.mpcJ.qkrx!cncncnc ymmcUr.orscncncn

KprcwhhxcedhmrwcjrpygwcDhxwcR mihxkpn


§c2

D.wscEhgmk.gerc r.gipydr,cuxherrwygvcwhigmk.yxm,cp.wcxr.eprwckprcjyv
p.dd,ciprgckprcwhhxchlckprcm hzygv-xhh churgrwc.gwc.cpr.wcuhuurwchfknc.
xhfgw,cvxyaadrwcpr.wciykpc.cpr.dkpscuygzcl.erc.kk.eprwckhcykn

“Ehggyr!”cm.ywckprcpr.wn

D.wscEhgmk.gercp.dkrwn

“Srm,cThr?”

“Eh rcygcprxrc.c ygfkr,”cm.ywckprcpr.wnc“I.gkckhcmur.zckhcshfn”

D.wscEhgmk.gercirgkcygkhckprcm hzygv-xhh ncYkci.mcd.xvrc.gwcehmyds
jhhz-dygrw,c.gwcykmciygwhicdhhzrwchfkchgckhc.gcYk.dy.gcv.xwrgnc.ciywr
lyxr-ud.ercheefuyrwcgr.xdsckprciphdrchlchgrcmywrchlcyk,c.gwcygclxhgk
hlckpym,cpymcdrvmcmuxr.wckhc.gcygoymyjdrcjd.ar,c xncThmrupcZrrjdrcp.w
.dxr.wsck.zrgcpymcmk.gwncPymc .ggrxci.mcjdfll,cjfkc.gc.efkrchjmrxorx
 yvpkcp.orcwrkrekrwcr j.xx.mm rgkcygcykn

“Ip.kcymcyk,cThr?”c.mzrwcD.wscEhgmk.ger,c.gwcm ydrwcudr.m.gkdsc.kcprx
pfmj.gwncIprg,ckihcsr.xmcuxroyhfmds,cmprcp.wc .xxyrwckpymcrdwrxds
iywhirx,chlciph ckprcihxdwczgricghkpygvcjrshgwckprcl.ekckp.kcprcp.w
. .mmrwc.cd.xvrclhxkfgrcygcMhfkpc.lxye.gcwy. hgwc ygrm,ckprxrcp.w
ghkcjrrgci.gkygvcesgyemckhcmrkckprc .kepcwhigc.mchgrchlcehgorgyrger,
.cufxrdscjfmygrmmc.xx.gvr rgkcjscipyepc xncZrrjdrcrqep.gvrwcpym
 hgrsclhxcD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcmhey.dcuhmykyhgncMfepci.mcghkckprce.mrncYk
p.wcjrrgc.cvrgfygrc .xxy.vrchlc.llrekyhgchgcjhkpcmywrmnc xncZrrjdr
ihxmpyuurwcpymciylr,c.gwcmprci.mcwrohkrwckhcpy ,ckphfvpcgrorxclhhdympds
ygwfdvrgkncKprscirxrc.cp.uusc.gwcfgykrwcehfudrn

 xncZrrjdrcedr.xrwcpymckpxh.kncPrcmrr rwckhclygwcmh rcwyllyefdks
ygcmur.zygvnc.gwciprgcprcmuhzrcykci.mcghkchgckprcmfjtrekcipyepcpr
p.wcygkrgwrwckhchurg,cjfkchgchgrcipyepcp.wc.dxr.wscjrrgcihxgchfkcyg
uxroyhfmcehgorxm.kyhgmn

“Ehggyr,cY’orcjrrgckpygzygvc.jhfkckp.kcgrezd.erc.v.ygn”

D.wscEhgmk.gercd.fvprwn

“Hp,cwhg’kcjrcmydds,cThrncShfcp.org’kce.ddrwc rcygkhckpymcmkfllscxhh 
hgc.cdhordsc hxgygvcdyzrckpymckhck.dzc.jhfkckp.kclhxckprcpfgwxrwkp
ky rn”

“Irdd,cshfczghi,ckprxr’mcghcmrgmrcygck.zygvcxymzmn”

“Whg’kcjrc.jmfxwncIp.kcxymzmce.gckprxrcjr?”

“Kprxrci.mc.cjfxvd.xschorxc.kcIygmkhgrcEhfxk,cghkckrgc ydrmclxh cprxr,
hgdsc.cw.schxckihc.vhn”

“Whg’kcjrcmhclfmms,cThrn”

“Kp.kcgrezd.ercehmkcgr.xdsckirgksckphfm.gwcuhfgwm,”cm.ywc xncZrrjdr,cyg
kprcxrorxrgkcohyercygcipyepc rgchlcjfmygrmmckx.wykyhgmcmur.zchlcd.xvr
mf mn

“Yczghin”

“Ykchfvpkckhcjrcygckprcj.gzn”

“Hgerc.gwclhxc.dd,cThr,”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.ger,cdhmygvcprxc. y.jydyks
.gwcjreh ygvcmfwwrgdscy urxyhfmc.gwcEdrhu.kxygr,c“Yciyddc_ghk_czrru
kp.kcgrezd.ercygc.cj.gzncIp.kchgcr.xkpcymckprcfmrchlcp.oygvc.cjr.fkylfd
grezd.ercylcykcymcdsygvcygckprcmkxhgv-xhh chlc.cj.gzc.ddckprcky r?
KprxrcymckprcEhfgkscJ.ddceh ygvchg,c.gwckprcJ.eprdhxm’cJ.ddc.lkrxckp.k,
.gwcncncncirdd,cYc_grrw_cykncYciyddcmrgwckprckpygvckhckprcj.gzciprgcir
u.mmckpxhfvpcDhgwhgchgchfxci.sckhcMehkd.gw,cjfkcghkckyddckprgnc.gwcY
whciympcshfcihfdwcmkhucihxxsygvc rc.jhfkcykn”

Kprxrci.mc.cmydrgernc xncZrrjdrci.mcxrvxrkkygvcghickp.kcpymcfglhxkfg.kr
uhdkxhhgrxscp.wcmkhuurwcpy clxh ck.ezdygvcygc.cmkx.yvpklhxi.xwc.gw
 .gdscl.mpyhgckprcxr.ddscy uhxk.gkc .kkrxcipyepci.mciryvpygvchgcpym
 ygw:clhxcprcurxeryorwckp.kcpymcxr .xzmc.jhfkckprcgrezd.er,cr ygrgkds
mrgmyjdrckphfvpckprscirxr,cp.wc .xxrwckprcvrgy.dc hhwcygcipyepcpymciylr
p.wcjrvfgckpymcygkrxoyrincYkci.mcvhygvckhcjrc hxrcwyllyefdkcghickp.g
rorxckhc.uuxh.epckprc .ygcymmfrncMkydd,cxflldrwckphfvpcmprc yvpkcjr,
kprckpygvcp.wckhcjrcwhgr:clhxcykcygohdorwc.c .kkrxchlclyg.ger,c.gwcyg
 .kkrxmchlclyg.gerc xncZrrjdrci.mcghcdhgvrxc.clxrrc.vrgkncPrc.gwcD.ws
Ehgmk.gercp.wc.c fkf.dcj.gzygvc.eehfgk,c.gwcykci.mcmprciphcmfurxoymrw
kprcmurgwygvchlcykncKpymci.mc.gc.xx.gvr rgk,cmfjmrbfrgkdscxrvxrkkrwcjs
 xncZrrjdr,cipyepcp.wcjrrgceh rckhcygckprcr.xdscw.smchlckprcphgrs hhg,
iprgc rgc.xrc.ukckhcwhclhhdympckpygvmn

 xncZrrjdrcehfvprwncGhkckprcmp.xu,crllyeyrgkcehfvpcipyepcircp.orcpr.xw
XfurxkcJ.qkrxcfkkrxygvcygckprcdyjx.xs,cjfkc.clrrjdr,cmkx.gvdrwckpygv
dyzrckprcjdr.kchlc.cwyllywrgkcmprrun

“Ehggyr,”cprcm.ywnc“Rx--Ehggyrn”

.gwc.kckprcihxwmc.cmhxkchlcehdwclyd cmrr rwckhceh rchorxcD.ws
Ehgmk.ger’mcrsrm:clhxcmh rcmyqkpcmrgmrckhdwcprxcip.kcmfjtrekcykci.m
kp.kci.mcghic.jhfkckhcjrcygkxhwferwn

“Ehggyr,cY--rx--p.wc.cdrkkrxclxh cUpsddymckpymc hxgygvn”

D.wscEhgmk.gercm.ywcghkpygvncPrxcrsrmcvdr. rwclhxc.gcygmk.gk,ckprg
jre. rclxhargc.v.ygncPrxcygkfykyhgcp.wcghkcwreryorwcprxn

Ygkhckprc .xxyrwcdylrchlckpymcp.uuscehfudrchgdschgrcmp.whicp.w
ygkxfwrwcykmrdlcfuckhckprcuxrmrgkncJfkcfglhxkfg.krdscykci.mc.cmp.whi
hlcehgmywrx.jdrcuxhuhxkyhgm,c.czygwchlcmfurx-mp.whi;c.gwcykmcrllrek
p.wcjrrgcepyddygvncYkci.mcUpsddym,c xncZrrjdr’mcmkruw.fvpkrx,ciphcp.w
e.fmrwcyk--jsckprcmy udrcuxhermmchlctydkygvckprcxyepc.gwcmfyk.jdrcshfgv
 .gciph cD.wscEhgmk.gercp.wc.kk.eprwckhcprxc(x.kprxcygckprc .ggrx
hlc.cehgtfxrxclhxeygvc.ce.xwcfuhgcpymcoyeky )c.gwcxfggygvchllc.gw
 .xxsygvc.cl.xclxh cxyepc.gwcbfykrcfgmfyk.jdrcurxmhgchlciph c.ddckp.k
mrr rwckhcjrczghigci.mckp.kcpymcg. rci.mcT.ezmhgnc xncZrrjdr,ciphmr
my udrcexrrwci.mckp.kcUpsddymcehfdwcwhcghcixhgv,cp.wcjrrgcuxru.xrwckh
.eerukckprcmykf.kyhgcupydhmhupye.dds;cjfkcpymciylr’mcix.kpcp.wcjrrg
wrruc.gwcrgwfxygvncMhc fepcmhckp.kckprc rxrc rgkyhgygvchlckprcvyxd’m
g. rc fmkcjrc.eehfgkrwckhcpy clhxc.cjx.orcwrrw,cD.wscEhgmk.gercp.oygv
mureylye.ddscmk.krwckp.kcmprcgrorxciymprwckhcpr.xcykc.v.ygn

Zrrgdsc.dyorckhckpymcuxrtfwyerchlcprxm,c xncZrrjdrcmkhuurwc.lkrxc .zygv
pymc.gghfger rgk,c.gwcp.wckhcx.kkdrcpymczrsmcygcpymcuhezrkcygchxwrxckh
.ebfyxrckprcgrermm.xscehfx.vrckhcehgkygfrncPrci.mcghkcdhhzygvc.kcpym
iylr,cjfkcprczgrictfmkcphiclhxjywwygvcprxcrquxrmmyhgc fmkcjrncKpymck.mz
hlcpymci.mcghcr.ms,cehgvrgy.dck.mzclhxc.cudr.m.gkcmf  rxc hxgygvn

“Mprcm.smcygcprxcdrkkrx,”cuxherrwrwc xncZrrjdr,cpymcrsrmchgckprce.xurk
.gwcpymceprrzmc.cwrrurxcuygz,c“kp.kcshfgvcT.ezmhgcp.mcvhkckprcep.gerchl
jfsygvc.cjyvcl.x cncncncygcDygehdgmpyxr,cYckpygzcmprcm.ywcncncncylcpr
e.gcx.ymrckpxrrckphfm.gwcuhfgwmn”

Prcu.fmrw,c.gwcmkhdrc.cvd.gerc.kcpymciylrncYkci.mc.mcprcp.wclr.xrwncMpr
p.wcehgvr.drwncDyzrcmh rcmurdd,ckprcg. rcT.ezmhgcp.wc.uu.xrgkdsckfxgrw
prxckhc .xjdrncYkci.mcdyzrckprcUsv .dyhgc.gwcV.d.kr.cjfmygrmmcihxzygv
kprcixhgvci.scxhfgwncMprci.mcuxrmf .jdscjxr.kpygv,cjfkckprxrci.mcgh
myvgchlcykn

“MhcYci.mctfmkckpygzygv,”cm.ywc xncZrrjdr,cuxhwfeygvc.ghkprx
_hjjdyv.kh_chgckprczrsm,c“ykctfmkcexhmmrwc sc ygwcncncncykcymg’k
.mcylckprckpygvcirxrc.cmurefd.kyhgcncncnckprcud.ercymc.uu.xrgkds
ehygygvc hgrscncncncuxrmrgkchigrxchgdscmrddygvcjre.fmrcprci.gkmckhcvh
.jxh.wcncncncykcheefxxrwckhc rcncncnc.gwckprscihfdwcu.scvhhwcygkrxrmk
hgckprcdh.gcncncn”

“Ip.kcdh.g?”cygbfyxrwckprcmk.kfrcyeyds,ceh ygvckhcdylrn

“Irdd,cip.kcYci.mckpygzygvcncncnctfmkc.cmfvvrmkyhg,cshfczghicncncncip.k
mkxfezc rci.mckp.kcylcshfcirxrciyddygvcirc yvpkcncncncvhhwcygormk rgk,
shfczghi,c.gwcghi.w.smcyk’mcwrferwcp.xwckhclygwcvhhwcygormk rgkmcncncn
Yci.mckpygzygvckp.kcirc yvpkcdrgwckpr ckprc hgrsn”

PrcmkhuurwncJfkcprcp.wcvhkckprckpygvchfkc.gwclrdkcp.uuyrxncPr
x.kkdrwcpymczrsmc.v.yg,c.gwcxfjjrwckprcj.ezchlcpymcpr.wc.v.ygmkckpr
 .gkrduyrerncKprclxyekyhgcmrr rwckhcvyorcpy cehglywrgern

“Ircp.wcjrkkrxcmrkkdrckpymckpygvchgerc.gwclhxc.dd,cThr,”cm.ywcD.ws
Ehgmk.gernc“.mcshfczghi,ciprgcircirxrc .xxyrw,cYci.mcxr.wsckhcwh
rorxskpygvclhxcUpsddymncYci.mcuxru.xrwckhcjrc.c hkprxckhcprxncYcv.or
prxcrorxscep.ger,ckhhzcprxcrorxsiprxrnc.gwcip.kcp.uurgrw?”

“Srm,cYczghincJfkcncncn”

“Mprcjre. rcrgv.vrwckhc.c .gciykpcudrgkschlc hgrscncncn”

“Mphezygvcshfgvc.mm,”cygkrxtrekrwc xncZrrjdr,curxzygvcfuclhxc.c h rgk
.kckprcxrehddrekyhgchlckprcd.krcd. rgkrw,ciph cprcp.wcgrorxcdyzrwnc“.gw
.cxyu,cip.k’mc hxrncY’orcpr.xwcmkhxyrmn”

“Ghgmrgmr!cYlcshfc.xrcvhygvckhcjrdyrorc.ddckprcvhmmyucshfcpr.xc.jhfk
urhudr,cghjhwscihfdwcjrcm.lrncPrci.mc.cwrdyvpklfdcshfgvc .gc.gwcpr
ihfdwcp.orc .wrcUpsddymcurxlrekdscp.uusncYgmkr.wchlc .xxsygvcpy ,cmpr
ephmrckhcvhchllciykpckpym--T.ezmhgn”cD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcohyercbfyorxrwn
Vxr.krxcmehxgcehfdwcp.xwdscp.orcjrrgcu.ezrwcygkhckihcmsdd.jdrmnc“.lkrx
ip.kcp.mcp.uurgrw,cYcerxk.ygdscygkrgwckhcp.orcghkpygvc hxrckhcwhciykp
prxncYcmp.ddcghkcdrgwckpr c.curggs,cmhcudr.mrcwhcghkcdrkcfmcehgkygfr
kpymcwymefmmyhgc.gscdhgvrxncYcphurcYc. cghkc.gcfgtfmkcih .g,cjfkcYc fmk
m.sckp.kcYcehgmywrx,c.lkrxckprci.scUpsddymcjrp.orwcncncn”

Kprcmfwwrgchurgygvchlckprcwhhxce.fmrwcprxckhcjxr.zchllncDhxwcR mihxkp,
 hfdw-mk.ygrwc.gwcir.xygvc.cwrudhx.jdrchdwct.ezrk,cuhkkrxrwcygkhckpr
xhh ncPrcurrxrwcjrgrohdrgkdsc.kcpymcmymkrxc.gwcpymcjxhkprx-yg-d.i,cjfk
mrr rwcfg.i.xrckp.kcprci.mcygkrxxfukygvc.cehgorxm.kyhgn

“‘V.xwrgygvc.mc.cLygrc.xk,’”cprc fx fxrwnc“Ehggyr,cp.orcshfcmrrgc.
jhhzce.ddrwc‘V.xwrgygvc.mc.cLygrc.xk’?cYci.mcxr.wygvcykcygcprxrcd.mk
gyvpknc‘V.xwrgygvc.mc.cLygrc.xkn’cKp.kcymckprckykdrncGhi,ciprxrce.g
ykcp.orcvhkckh?”cPymcwxr. scrsrcldykkrwckhc.gwclxhnc“Yci.gkckhcmphi
ykckhc e.ddymkrxncKprxrcymc.cu.mm.vrcygcykckp.kcwyxrekdscxrlfkrmcpym
.g.xepymkyecoyrimchgcncncn”

“Ykcymcuxhj.jdschgchgrchlckprcmprdorm,”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.gercmphxkdsn

“Hgchgrchlckprcmprdorm?”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp,chjoyhfmdscy uxrmmrwcjs
kpymcjxyvpkcmfvvrmkyhgnc“Ips,chlcehfxmr,ckhcjrcmfxrn”

 xncZrrjdrci.mcx.kkdygvcpymczrsmc hhwydsnc.c fkyghfmcrquxrmmyhgci.m
hgcpymcuygzcl.erncKprmrc h rgkmchlcxrjrddyhgcwywcghkceh rckhcpy corxs
hlkrg,clhxcprcdhorwcpymciylrciykpc.cwhv-dyzrc.llrekyhgc.gwcp.wcvxhig
.eefmkh rwckhcjrygvcxfdrwcjscprx,cjfkcghicxrmrgk rgkclyddrwcpy n
Mprci.mcfgxr.mhg.jdr,cprcehgmywrxrwncMprchfvpkckhcp.orcxr.dymrwcphi
mkxhgvdscprclrdkc.jhfkcuhhxcdykkdrcUpsddymncYkci.mckhhcyglrxg.dds
ehdw-jdhhwrwckhc.j.gwhgckprcuhhxcepydwcdyzrc.gchdwcmphrcmy uds
jre.fmrcncncn

“.xrcshfcvhygv?”cprc.mzrw,chjmrxoygvcpymciylrc hoygvckhckprcwhhxn

“SrmncYc. cvhygvcygkhckprcv.xwrg,”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.gernc“Ips?cI.mckprxr
.gskpygvcrdmrcshfci.gkrwckhck.dzckhc rc.jhfk?”

“Gh,”cm.ywc xncZrrjdrcwrmuhgwrgkdsnc“Hp,cghn”

D.wscEhgmk.gercdrlkckprcxhh ,c.gwc.cwrruc .mefdygrcmydrgerclrddn
 xncZrrjdrcxfjjrwckprcj.ezchlcpymcpr.wc rwyk.kyordsc.v.ygmkckpr
 .gkrduyrer,c.gwcDhxwcR mihxkpcmex.keprwc. hgvckprcjhhz-mprdormn

“Ed.xrger!”cm.ywc xncZrrjdrcmfwwrgdsnc.gcywr.--hgrc yvpkc.d hmkcm.sc.g
ygmuyx.kyhg--p.wceh rckhcpy n

“Rp?”cxrmuhgwrwcpymcdhxwmpyuc.jmrgkdsncPrcp.wclhfgwcpymcjhhzc.gwci.m
kfxgygvcykmcu.vrm,c.jmhxjrwn

“Ed.xrger,ce.gcshfcncncn”

“.gvfmc e.ddymkrx,”chjmrxorwcDhxwcR mihxkpcjykkrxds,c“ymc.gchjmkyg.kr,
mkyll-grezrwcmhgchlcJrdy.dncKprcixykrxchlckpymcjhhzcwymkygekdscmk.krm
ygcmhc .gscihxwmcncncn”

“Ed.xrger,ce.gcshfcdrgwc rckpxrrckphfm.gwcuhfgwmchgcvhhwcmrefxyksc.gw
zrrucykcw.xzclxh cEhggyr?”

DhxwcR mihxkpcjdygzrwn

“Zrrucmh rkpygvcw.xzclxh cEhggyr?”cPrcx.ymrwcpymcrsrmclxh cpymcjhhzcyg
hxwrxckhcurrxc.kckpymcoymyhg.xsciykpc.cvrgkdrcuyksnc“ scwr.xclrddhi,cyk
e.g’kcjrcwhgrn”

“MprcihfdwcgrorxczghincYciyddckrddcshfctfmkcipscYci.gkckpymc hgrscncncn”

“ hgrs?”cDhxwcR mihxkp’mcrsrcp.wcjreh rco.e.gkc.v.ygncPrci.mcxr.wygv
hgerc hxrnc“ hgrs?c hgrs,c scwr.xclrddhi?c hgrs?c hgrs?cIp.kc hgrs?cYl
Ycp.orcm.ywchger,”cwred.xrwcDhxwcR mihxkp,c“kp.kc.gvfmc e.ddymkrxcym
.ddcixhgvchgckprcmfjtrekchlcphddsphezm,cY’orcm.ywcykc.cpfgwxrwcky rmn”

“Drkc rcrqud.ygncKpymckpxrrckphfm.gwcuhfgwmcncncn”

“ scwr.xclrddhi,cghncGh,cghncYkci.mcdyzrcshf,”cm.ywcpymcdhxwmpyuciykp
.co.vfrcpr.xkygrmm,c“ykci.mcdyzrcshf--vhhwc.gwcvrgrxhfm--khc .zr
kpymchllrx,cjfkcYcp.orc. udr,ckp.gzcshf,c. udrncYcwhg’kc_grrw_ckpxrr
kphfm.gwcuhfgwmn”

“Shfcwhg’kcfgwrxmk.gwncYcncncn”

“Gh,cghncGh,cghncJfkcYc. corxsc fepchjdyvrw,c.ddckprcm. rncYkci.mczygw
hlcshf,c scwr.xclrddhi,ckhcvyorc rckprchuuhxkfgyksncOrxsczygwncOrxs,
orxs,corxsczygw,”cuxherrwrwcpymcdhxwmpyu,ckx.ydygvckhckprcwhhxc.gw
xr.wygvc.mcprcirgknc“Hp,corxs,corxs,corxscncncn”

Kprcwhhxcedhmrwcjrpygwcpy n

“Hp,c_w. g_!”cm.ywc xncZrrjdrn

Prcm.gzcygkhc.cep.yxcygc.cmk.krchlcuxhlhfgwcwrtrekyhgncPrckphfvpkchl
kprcdrkkrxcprcihfdwcp.orckhcixykrckhcUpsddymncUhhxcdykkdrcUpsddymcncncn
prcihfdwcp.orckhckrddcprxckp.kcip.kcmprc.mzrwcehfdwcghkcjrc .g.vrwn
.gwcips,ckphfvpkc xncZrrjdrcmhfxds,c.mcprcxhmrclxh cpymcmr.kc.gwcirgk
khckprcixykygv-k.jdr,cehfdwcykcghkcjrc .g.vrw?cMy udscjre.fmrcprci.mc.
ir.z-zgrrw,cmuygrdrmmcexr.kfxrciphci.mc.lx.ywchlc.cu.yxchlcvxrscrsrm
kp.kcp.wc.ckrgwrgesckhclxrrarn

“_ scwr.xcUpsddym_,”cprcixhkrn

PrxrcprcmkhuurwncPhichgcr.xkpci.mcprckhcufkcyk?cIp.kc.cdrkkrxckhcp.or
khcixykr!c xncZrrjdrcud.erwcpymcpr.wcjrkirrgcpymcp.gwmc.gwcvxh.grw
.dhfwn

“P.ddh,cFgedrcThr!”

Kprcdrkkrx-ixykrx,ckfxgygvcmp.xuds,ci.mc.i.xr--iykphfkcudr.mfxr--hlcpym
grupricLxrwrxyez,cmk.gwygvcjrmywrcpymcep.yxncPrcrsrwcpy cxrmrgklfdds,
lhxcprci.mcghkchgdscrq.murx.krwcjfkcmk.xkdrwncPrcp.wcghkcpr.xwckprcwhhx
hurgncYkci.mc.mcylckprcm hhkp-p.yxrwcshfkpcp.wcuhuurwcfuchfkchlc.ckx.un

“E. rcygckpxhfvpckprciygwhi,”crqud.ygrwckprcPhgncLxrwwyrnc“Ycm.s,cFgedr
Thrn”

“Irdd,cip.kcymcyk?”

“Ycm.s,cFgedrcThr,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,c“e.gcshfcdrgwc rc.ckphfm.gwcbfyw?”

 xncZrrjdrcfkkrxrwc.csrducdyzrc.cuygeprwcUh rx.gy.gn


§c3

.mc xncZrrjdr,cxrw-rsrwc.gwchorxixhfvpk,cxhmrcmdhidsclxh cpymcep.yx
.gwcjrv.gckhcmirddcygch yghfmcmydrger,cpymcgrupricx.ymrwcpymcp.gw
.uur.dygvdsncYkcjrv.gckhcheefxckhckprcPhgncLxrwwyrckp.kcprcp.wcurxp.um
ghkcdrwcfuckhcpymcxrbfrmkciykpckprc .qy f chlcm hhkpck.ekn

“P.dlc.ctylls!”cprcrgkxr.krwnc“Ycm.s,cwhg’kcvhcygchllckprcwrrucrgwclhx
tfmkc.cmrehgwncYce.gcrqud.ygn”

 xncZrrjdr’mclrrdygvmcrquxrmmrwckpr mrdormcygc.cdhfwcmghxkn

“Rqud.yg!”

“Irdd,cYce.gncIphdrckxhfjdrci.m,cYcmk.xkrwc.kckprcixhgvcrgwncMphfdwg’k
p.orcmuxfgvcykchgcshfcdyzrckp.kncKprcl.ekcym,cFgedrcThr,cY’orcvhkc.
mepr rncYcvyorcshfc scihxwckp.k,cylcshf’ddchgdscufkchllcp.oygvc.uhudrqs
lhxc.jhfkckpxrrc ygfkrm,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,cme.ggygvcpymclrx rgkygv
xrd.kyorciykpcmh rc.gqyrks,c“Yce.gcmphorcshfchgckhc.cvhhwckpygvn
PhgrmkdscYce.gnc.gwc.ddcYcm.scym,cylckpymcmepr rcY’ ck.dzygvc.jhfkcym
ihxkpc.ckphfm.gwcbfywckhcshf,ciyddcshfcmdyucykc.exhmm?cY’ cv. rckh
muyddcykc.gwcdr.orcykckhcshfxcphgrmksckhce.mpcfucylckprckpygvcdhhzm
vhhwckhcshfn”

“.ckphfm.gwcuhfgwm!”

“Gyercxhfgwcmf ,”cfxvrwcLxrwwyrcygvx.ky.kygvdsn

“Ips,”cwr .gwrwc xncZrrjdr,cghicmh rip.kcxrehorxrw,c“whcshfci.gkc.
kphfm.gwcuhfgwm?”

“Irdd,ciphcwhrmg’k,cylcykceh rmckhckp.k?”cm.ywcLxrwwyrnc“JfkcYcwhg’k
 ygwckrddygvcshfc scmurey.dcxr.mhgclhxci.gkygvcykc.kctfmkckpymc h rgk,
ylcshf’ddcmir.xckhczrrucykcfgwrxcshfxcp.kc.mcl.xc.mckprcvfo’ghxcym
ehgerxgrwn”

“Ylcshfc r.gckp.kcshfciympc rcghkckhcxrur.kckhcshfxcl.kprxc.gskpygvcshf
 .sckrddc rcygcehglywrger,cg.kfx.ddscYcmphfdwcghkcwxr. chlcwhygvcmfepc.
kpygvn”

LxrwwyrcdhhzrwcufaadrwncPymci.mcghcdyvpkgygvcjx.ygn

“E.g’kcbfykrcihxzckp.kchfk,”cprcehglrmmrwnc“Whcshfc r.gcshfciyddckrdd
py chxcshfcihg’k?”

“Yciyddcghkckrddcpy n”

“VhhwchdwcFgedrcThr!”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,cxrdyrorwnc“.ckhuurx!cY’orc.di.sm
m.ywcmhncIrdd,cdhhzcprxr,cshfczghic.ddckprckxhfjdrckprxr’mcjrrgc.jhfk
 scwxhuuygvc.cjykchgckprcx.ermcd.krds?”

“Ycwhn”

“Jrkirrgchfxmrdorm,cYcwxhuurwc.jhfkclyorcpfgwxrwchlckprcjrmknc.gwcY
tfmkci.gkckhc.mzcshfchgrcmy udrcbfrmkyhgnc_Ips_cwywcYcwxhucyk?”

“Jre.fmrcshfcirxrc.gcyglrxg.dcshfgvc.mmn”

“Irdd,csrm,”c.vxrrwcLxrwwyr,cp.oygvcehgmywrxrwckprcuhygk,c“shfc yvpk
ufkcykckp.kci.s,chlcehfxmrncJfkcipsci.mcYc.gc.mm?”

“VhhwcVhw!”crqed.y rwckprcrq.murx.krwc xncZrrjdrnc“. cYc.
umseph-.g.dsmk?”

“Yc r.gckhcm.s,cylcshfceh rcxyvpkcwhigckhcyk,cYcdhmkc.ddckp.kcmkfll
my udscjre.fmrcYci.mchgckprcixhgvcmywrchlckprclrgerncYk’mc.c fv’mcv. r
jrkkygvchgcphxmrmncKprchgdsci.sckhc .zrc hgrscymckhcjrc.cjhhzyr,c.gw
kp.k’mcip.kcY’ cvhygvckhcwhcylcshf’ddcu.xkciykpckp.kckphfm.gwncU.d
hlc ygr,ciphci.mcfuc.kcHqlhxwciykpc r,cymcygc.cjhhzyr’mchllyer,c.gw
kprs’xrcv. rckhck.zrc rcygckhhcylcYce.gcufkcfuc.ckphfm.gwcbfywncHgdscY
 fmkcdrkckpr czghicbfyez,cjre.fmrckprchllrx’mcghkcvhygvckhcjrchurgclhx
rorxncShf’orcghcghkyhgcip.kc.cwrferchlc.cdhkchlceh urkykyhgckprxrcym
lhxckp.kcmhxkchlcthjn”

 xncZrrjdr,ciphcp.wcjrrgcrgwr.ohfxygvciykpcmh rcrgrxvsckhcvrkc.cihxwcyg
wfxygvckpymcp.x.gvfr,cghicehgkxyorwckhcmur.zn

“.gwcwhcshfcmrxyhfmdscmfuuhmrckp.kcYcihfdwcncncncJfkcip.k’mckprcfmrchl
i.mkygvcky rck.dzygv?cYcp.orcghc r.gmchlcd.sygvc scp.gwmchgckprcmf cshf
 rgkyhgncYlcYcp.w,”cm.ywc xncZrrjdrciymklfddsnc“YlcYcp.wcncncn”c.gwcpym
rsrcmkx.srwckhckprcdrkkrxchgckprcwrmz,ckprcdrkkrxcipyepcp.wcvhkc.mcl.x
.mc“ scwr.xcUpsddym”c.gwcmkfezckprxrn

Lxrwwyrcv.arwcfuhgcpy ciykpcehxwy.dcms u.kpsn

“Hp,cYczghicphicshf’xrcmykf.krw,cFgedrcThr,c.gwcY’ cw.mprwcmhxxsclhx
shfncYc r.g,c.fgkcEhgmk.gerc.gwc.ddckp.kn”

“Ip.k!”cYxzmh rc.mc xncZrrjdrcmh rky rmclhfgwckprcurefdy.xcehgwykyhg
hlcpymclyg.gey.dc.xx.gvr rgkm,cprcp.wc.di.smcp.wckprcehgmhd.kyhgchl
mfuuhmygvckp.kckprscirxrc.cmrexrkcjrkirrgcpymciylrc.gwcpy mrdlnc“Ip.k
whcshfc r.g?”

“Irdd,cYczghickp.kc.fgkcEhgmk.gerczrrumc.gcrsrchgckprcwhfjdhhgmc.gw
eprezmckprchfkvhygvmcuxrkkscg.xxhidsnc.gwcYckpygzcyk’mc.cw.mprwcmp. r
kp.kcmprcihg’kcfgjfezdrckhcprducuhhxchdwcUpsddymnc.cvyxd,”cm.yw
Lxrwwyr,c“Yc.di.smcdyzrwncJ.ddscmp. r!cIpsckprcwyezrgmcmphfdwg’kcmpr
 .xxsckp.kclrddhicT.ezmhg?cYc r.g,cdhor’mcdhor,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,ciphclrdk
mkxhgvdschgckpymcuhygkn

 xncZrrjdrci.mc .zygvcefxyhfmcvfduygvcghymrmn

“Urxp.umcYchfvpkckhcrqud.yg,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,c“kp.kcYci.mcp.oygvc.cbfyrk
.lkrx-jxr.zl.mkcm hzrchfkmywrckprciygwhickprxrc.gwcpr.xwckprciphdr
kpygvncYc r.g,cshfc.gwc.fgkcEhgmk.gercvhygvckhckprc .kc.jhfkcuhhxchdw
Upsddymc.gwcshfckxsygvckhcjykrckprcvfo’ghx’mcr.xc.gwcmhclhxkpn”

 xncZrrjdrcjfjjdrwclhxc.ipydrn

“Shf--shfcdymkrgrw!”cprc .g.vrwckhcrt.efd.krc.kcdrgvkpn

“.gwcw.mprwcdfezsclhxcshf,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrciykpc.cehxwy.dykscfgy u.yxrw
jsckprclx.gzdscfglxyrgwdscmk.xrcfgwrxcipyepc.cgyerx- ygwrwcshfkpcihfdw
p.orciykprxrw;c“w.mprwcdfezsclhxcshfckp.kcYcwywncJre.fmrcY’orcvhkc.
mepr rn”

 xncZrrjdr’mcrmky .krchlcpymcshfgvcxrd.kyor’mcm.v.eyksci.mcghkc.cpyvp
hgr,c.gwcykcymcwhfjklfdciprkprx,cp.wckprcd.kkrxce.fvpkcpy cygc.cdrmm
wrmuhgwrgkc hhw,cprcihfdwcp.orci.mkrwcky rcygcygbfyxygvcygkhckpr
wrk.ydmchlckpymcmepr r,ckprc rgkyhgchlcipyepcp.wcjrrgcud.sygvcygc.gw
hfkchlcLxrwwyr’mcehgorxm.kyhgcdyzrc.ciydd-h’-kpr-iymuncJfkcmfepci.mcpym
xrwferwcmk.krc.kckprc h rgkckp.kc.cxrdfek.gkcvdr. chlcphurcexrukcygkh
pymckxhfjdrwcrsrn

“.cmepr r?cWhcshfc r.gc.cmepr rckhcprduc rchfkchl--hfkchlc s
wyllyefdks?”

“.jmhdfkrds!cShfci.gkckprcjrmkcmr.km,circp.orc’r ncYc r.g,”cLxrwwyr
irgkchgcygcygkrxuxrk.kyhgchlckprmrcurefdy.xcihxwm,c“shfci.gkckpxrr
kphfm.gwcbfyw,c.gwcYce.gcmphicshfcphickhcvrkcykn”

“Kprgczygwdscwhcmh,”cm.ywc xncZrrjdr;c.gw,cp.oygvchurgrwckprcwhhx,
urrxrwce.fkyhfmdschfk,c.gwcedhmrwcykc.v.yg,cprcexhmmrwckprcxhh c.gw
mpfkckprciygwhin

“ .zrmcykc.cjykclfvvs,cjfkcurxp.umcshf’xrcxyvpk,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,crsrygv
kprmrc .gœfoxrmnc“Irdd,cyk’mcdyzrckpym,cFgedrcThrncShfcxr r jrxcip.k
shfcirxrcm.sygvckhc.fgkcEhgmk.gerc.jhfkcmh rcjyxwcjrygvc.ukckhcmgr.zcfu
.gwcuygepcprxcgrezd.er?”

“Ycwhn”

“Irdd,cipscghk?”

“Ip.kcwhcshfc r.g?”

“Yc r.g,cipscwhg’kcshf?”

 xncZrrjdrcxrv.xwrwcpymcgrupriciykpcfgehger.drwc.mkhgymp rgkncPrcp.w
jrrgcuxru.xrwclhxcy jreydyks,cjfkckpymcrqerrwrwcpymcrqurek.kyhgmn

“Mkr.dc sciylr’mcgrezd.er!”

“Kp.k’mcykncLxyvpklfddscbfyezcshfc.xr,cvrkkygvchgckhc.gcywr.ncUygep
.fgkcEhggyr’mcgrezd.erncLhx,c .xzcshf,”cehgkygfrwcLxrwwyr,cmhcl.x
lhxvrkkygvckprcxrmurekcwfrclxh c.cgrupric.mckhck.ucpymcfgedrcmp.xuds
hgckprceprmk,c“ylc.cpfmj.gwcuygeprmc.gskpygvclxh c.ciylr,cykcymg’k
mkr.dygvncKp.k’mcd.incYclhfgwckp.kchfkclxh c.c hoyrcYcm.icygckhign”

KprcPhgncLxrwwyrci.mc.cvxr.kcmkfwrgkchlckprc hoyrmncPrcehfdwckrddc.
mfurx-lyd clxh c.cmfurx-mfurx-lyd c.kc.cvd.ger,c.gwcip.kcprcwywcghk
zghic.jhfkcrxxygvciyormc.gwcdyergkyhfmcedfj rgcehfdwcp.orcjrrgcixykkrg
ygc.cmfj-kykdrn

“.xrcshfcygm.gr?”cvxhidrwc xncZrrjdrn

“Ykcihfdwg’kcjrcp.xwclhxcshfckhcvrkcphdwchlcyknc.gwchgercshf’wcvhkcyk
rorxsjhwscihfdwcjrcp.uusncYc r.g,c.ddcshf’wcp.orckhcwhcihfdwcjrckhcwx.i
.ceprbfrckhcu.sclhxc.ghkprxchgrclhxc.fgkcEhggyr--ipyepcihfdwc .zrcprx
urxlrekdscepyxus,c.mcirddc.mcufkkygvcshfchgrcfu,cylcshfclhddhic rncKprg
shfcihfdwcp.orckprchkprxcgrezd.er,ckprcuygeprwchgr,ckhcud.sc.jhfkciykpn
Mrrcip.kcYc r.g?cShfcehfdwcmrddcykcuxyoydsc.gwcjscmkr.dkp,cmpyucUpsddym
prxckpxrrckphfm.gw,cufmpc.exhmmc sckphfm.gw,c.gwcip.kci.mcdrlkchorx
ihfdwcjrc.cgyercdykkdrcuxyo.krc.eehfgkclhxcshfckhckfezc.i.scmh riprxr
iprxrc.fgkcEhggyrcihfdwg’kczghic.gskpygvc.jhfkcyknc.gwc.cw.mprwcfmrlfd
kpygv,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,c“khcp.orcfucshfxcmdrrorcygce.mrchlcr rxvrgeyrmn”

“.xrcshfcncncnc?”

 xncZrrjdrci.mchgckprcuhygkchlcxrur.kygvcpymcuxroyhfmcxr .xzciprg
mfwwrgdsckprxrce. rckprcxr.dym.kyhgckp.k,cwrmuykrc.ddcuxrehgeryorw
huygyhgm,ckprcshfgvc .gci.mc.gskpygvcjfkcygm.grncKprcmepr r,c.kcipyep
prcp.wcjrrgcuxru.xrwckhcmehll,ci.mcmhcjxyddy.gk,csrkcmy udr,ckp.kcyk
mrr rwc.d hmkcygexrwyjdrckp.kcykmcmuhgmhxcehfdwcp.orcihxzrwcykchfkclhx
py mrdln

“Ghkc schig,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrc hwrmkds,c.mcylcygc.gmirxckhckprckphfvpkn
“M.ic fepckprcm. rckpygvcygc.c hoyrchgerncHgdsckprxrckprclrddhi,cyl
Ycxr r jrx,ci.gkrwckhcwhcwhigc.gcygmfx.gerceh u.gs,c.gwcykci.mg’kc.
grezd.erckp.kcprcuygeprwcjfkcjhgwmncMkydd,ckprcuxygeyudr’mckprcm. rn
Irdd,cphicwhcircvh,cFgedrcThr?cPhic.jhfkcyk?cYmckp.kcihxkpc.ckphfm.gw
bfywchxcghk?”

Rorgckphfvpcprcp.wcmrrgcygcurxmhgckhckprcedhmygvchlckprcwhhxc.gwckpr
iygwhi,c xncZrrjdrcehfdwcghkcxrlx.ygclxh c.cehgmuyx.khx-dyzrcvd.ger
.jhfkcpy ncKprscp.wcjrrgcmur.zygvciykpcdhirxrwcohyerm,cjfkcghicihxwm
e. rclxh cpy cygc.gc.d hmkcyg.fwyjdrcipymurxn

“Ehfdwcykcxr.ddscjrcwhgr?cYmcykclr.myjdr?”

“Lr.myjdr?cIps,cw.mpcyk,cip.kckprcwyezrgmcymckprxrckhcmkhucshf?cShf
ehfdwcwhcykcygc.cmrehgwnc.gwckprcjr.fkschlckprciphdrckpygvcymckp.k,cyl
shfcirxrcehuurw,cghjhwscehfdwcm.sc.cihxw,cjre.fmrcpfmj.gwcuygepygvclxh 
iylrcymg’kcmkr.dygvncD.in”

Kprcmk.kr rgkckp.kcygckprceyxef mk.germcygwye.krwcghjhwscehfdwcm.sc.
ihxwcmrr rwckhc xncZrrjdrcmhc.kco.xy.gerciykpckprcl.ekmckp.kcprci.m
eh urddrwckhcep.ddrgvrcykn

“Shfxc.fgkcihfdwcp.orc.cvhhwcwr.dckhcm.s,”cprchjmrxorwcxfrlfddsn

“Rp?cHp,csrm,cYcmrrcip.kcshfc r.gncIrdd,cshfcihfdwcp.orckhcxymzckp.kn
.lkrxc.dd,ckprcep.germcihfdwcjrcwr.wc.v.ygmkcprxclygwygvchfkn”

“Jfkcmprc yvpkn”

“Hp,cirdd,cylcshfcufkcykcdyzrckp.k,cYcmfuuhmrcmprc yvpkn”

“Lxrwwyr,c scjhs,”cm.ywc xncZrrjdrcir.zds,c“Ycw.xrg’kcwhcyk!”

Kprcoymyhgchlcpymckphfm.gwcuhfgwmcmdyuuygvclxh cpymcvx.mucmhcixhfvpk
fuhgcLxrwwyrckp.kcprcrquxrmmrwcpy mrdlcygc.c .ggrxcl.xclxh clykkygvcyg
hgrchlcpymcsr.xmckhi.xwmc.gchdwrxc .gn

“Hp,cYcm.s,cwhg’kcjrcmfepc.cx.jjyk!”

 xncZrrjdrcmphhzcpymcpr.wn

“Gh,”cprcxrur.krw,c“Ycw.xrg’kn”

Ykc yvpkcp.orcmrr rwckp.kckprcgrvhky.kyhgmcp.wcxr.eprwc.cwr.wdhez,cjfk
Lxrwwyr,ciykpc.ckphfm.gwcuhfgwmcygcmyvpk,ci.mcygcl.xckhhcmky fd.krw
.cehgwykyhgckhcurx ykcmhck. rc.gcrgwygvckhcmfepc.cuxh ymygvcudhknc.m
prcmkhhwckprxr,cep.lygvc.kcpymcfgedr’mcufmydd.gy yks,c.gcywr.ci.m
ohfepm.lrwckhcpy n

“JscThor!cY’ddckrddcshfcip.k!”cprcexyrwn

“Ghkcmhcdhfw!”c h.grwckprc.uuxrprgmyorc xncZrrjdrnc“Ghkcmhcdhfw!”

“Y’ddckrddcshfcip.k,”cxrur.krwcLxrwwyrcygc.cph.xmrcipymurxnc“Phicihfdw
ykcjrcylc_Y_cwywckprcuygepygv?”

“Ip.k!”

“Phicihfdwcykcncncn”

“Ihfdwcshf?”cPhur,cipyepcp.wco.gymprwclxh c xncZrrjdr’mcl.er,ce. r
ldhhwygvcj.eznc“ scjhs,cihfdwcshfcxr.dds?”

“Lhxc.ckphfm.gwcbfywcshfcjrkcYcihfdwn”

 xncZrrjdrcedfkeprwc.kcpymcshfgvcxrd.kyor’mcp.gwc.gwcvxyuurwcyk
lrorxympdsn

“Lxrwwyr,”cprcm.yw,c“kprc h rgkcshfcud.erckp.kcgrezd.ercygc scp.gwm,cY
iyddcvyorcshfcghkc.ckphfm.gwcjfkckihckphfm.gwcuhfgwmn”

“FgedrcThr,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrciykpcrbf.dcygkrgmyks,c“yk’mc.cjrk!”

 xncZrrjdrc huurwc.kcpymclhxrpr.wn

“Shfckpygzcshfce.gc .g.vrcyk?”

“ .g.vrcyk?”cLxrwwyrcd.fvprwc.cdyvpkcd.fvpnc“Tfmkci.kepc r!”

 xncZrrjdrcvx.murwcpymcp.gwc.v.ygciykpckprcfk hmkci.x kpn

“Yc fmkcvhchfkc.gwcvrkcmh rc.yx,”cprcm.ywnc“Y’ c.ddcfumrknc .scYcxr.dds
dr.orckpymc .kkrxckhcshf,cLxrwwyr?”

“X.kprx!”

“Vhhw!cKprgckh-gyvpkcYciyddcixykrckhcUpsddymc.gwcm.sckp.kcYc .scjrc.jdr
khcwhcip.kcmprciymprmn”

“Whg’kcm.sc‘ .s,’”cexyrwcLxrwwyrcjfhs.gkdsnc“Kprcihxwcymc‘iyddn’cJ.dds
iydd!cIp.kcph!”


§c4

Rqpyd.x.kyhgcymc.cpr.wscwxfv;cjfk,cdyzrchkprxcwxfvm,cykcp.mckpr
wym.wo.gk.vrckp.kcykmcmky fd.kygvcrllrekmcmrdwh cd.mkclhxcorxs
dhgvncLhxcurxp.umckrgc ygfkrmc.lkrxcpymcfgedrcp.wcdrlkcpy ,cLxrwwyr
Kpxrruihhwcd.scj.ezcygcpymcep.yxcygc.cmhxkchlcremk.msncPrclrdkcmkxhgv,
oyvhxhfm,c.drxkncKprgcjscwrvxrrm,cdyzrc.cepyddygvciygw,cwhfjkcjrv.g
khcexrrucfuhgcpy --l.ygkdsc.kclyxmk,ckprgc hxrc.gwc hxrcygmymkrgkds,
kyddcjsckprcrgwchlc.cbf.xkrxchlc.gcphfxcprci.mcygc.cmk.krchlcuxhghfgerw
mrdl- ymkxfmkncHx,ckhcufkcykciykpcdrmmcrdrv.ger,cprci.mcmfllrxygvclxh 
.gcrqerrwygvdscmrorxrc.kk.ezchlcehdwclrrkn

Kprc hxrcprcehgkr ud.krwckprcorgkfxrcipyepcprcp.wcfgwrxk.zrg,ckpr
drmmc.ddfxygvcwywcykc.uur.xckhcpy ncPymci.mcghkc.czrrgcy .vyg.kyhg,
jfkcrorgcprcehfdwcmp.urciykpc.cvxfrmh rcedr.xgrmmc.coymyhgchlckpr
lxyvpklfdcjfmk-fuckp.kcihfdwcrgmfrcmphfdwcprcjrcwrkrekrwcmkr.dygvcpym
.fgkcEhgmk.ger’mcwy. hgwcgrezd.erncEh  hgcwrergescihfdwcygcmfepc.g
rorgkcmr.dcpymcdyumc.mcxrv.xwrwcpymcFgedrcThmrup’mcmp.xrcygckprc .kkrxn
.gwcrorgcyl--.mc yvpkcehgeryo.jdscp.uurg--eh  hgcwrergescl.ydrwc.kckpr
exymym,cxr.mhgckhdwcpy ckp.kcpymcFgedrcThmrupcihfdwcygl.ddyjdscwymed.y 
.gsczghidrwvrchlchxcehggrekyhgciykpckprcx.mpc.eknc.gwckprgciprxrcihfdw
prcjr?cYgckprcmhfu,cfgwhfjkrwdsncLhxcLxrwwyrcehfdwcghkcehger.dcykclxh 
py mrdlckp.kckprxrci.mcghkpygvcygcpymcuxroyhfmcxrehxwckhc .zrcykcmrr 
ygehgeryo.jdrckhcpymcgr.xrmkc.gwcwr.xrmkckp.kcprcmphfdwcmkr.dckpr
trirddrxschlc.clr .drcxrd.kyorclhxcufxrdscurxmhg.dcrgwmncKprcorxwyek
ygckprcrorgkchlcwrkrekyhgcihfdwcjrchgrchlcfgeh uxh ymygvcehgwr g.kyhgn

.gwcsrkcprcp.krwckprcywr.chlc rrzdsc.ddhiygvckp.kckihckphfm.gwcuhfgwm
khcrme.urclxh cpymcedfkepcncncn

.cshfgvc .g’mcexhmm-xh.wmn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Kprc.vhgschlcmuyxykcygkhcipyepckprmrc rwyk.kyhgmce.mkcpy cp.wcjxhfvpk
py cfuciykpc.cjhfgwclxh ckprceh lhxk.jdrcwrukpmchlcpymc.x -ep.yxc.gw
p.wcmrkcpy cuxhidygvcxrmkdrmmdsc.jhfkckprcxhh ncPymci.gwrxygvmcdrwcpy 
.kckpymcuhygkckhcehddywrcmh rip.kcu.yglfddsciykpckprcdhgvck.jdrchg
ipyepcJr.epckprcjfkdrx,c.ckywscmhfd,ci.mcygckprcp.jykchlc.xx.gvygvcyg
.cgr.kcxhickprcw.ydscu.urxm,cirrzdscu.urxm,c.gwc .v.aygrmcipyepclhfgw
kpryxci.scygkhckprce.mkdrncKprcmphezcp.wckprcrllrekchlcxhfmygvcpy 
lxh cpymcmkfuhx,c.gwcygc.gc.jmrgkci.scprcedfkeprwckprcgr.xrmkcw.yds
u.urx,cipyepcp.uurgrwckhcjrckprc_ hxgygvcVdhjr_,c.gwcxrkfxgrwckhcpym
ep.yxcygckprcphurchlcbfyrkygvcpymcgrxormciykpc.curxfm.dchlckprcx.eygv
ygkrddyvrgerncLhx,ckphfvpcl.xcxr horwcghiclxh c.gscux.ekye.dcmp.xr
ygckprcwhygvmchlckprcx.eygvcihxdw,cprcmkyddckhhzc.cl.ygkc rd.gephds
ygkrxrmkcygc.merxk.ygygvcip.kcE.uk.ygcEfxj,ckprcPr.wcD.w,cDykkdr
Jxyvpkrsrm,c.gwckprcxrmkchlckprcgrimu.urxcrqurxkmcl.geyrwclhxckprcw.s’m
jyvcrorgkncPrcdykc.ceyv.xrkkrc.gwcfglhdwrwckprcthfxg.dn

Kprcgrqkc h rgk,cygmkr.wchlcu.mmygvcwyxrekds,c.mci.mcpymcfmf.d
ux.ekyer,ckhckprcd.mkcu.vr,cipyepci.mcwrohkrwckhcmuhxk,cprci.mcv.aygv
iykpc.cmkx.gvrcwxsclrrdygvcygcpymckpxh.kc.kc.cerxk.ygc.worxkymr rgkchg
u.vrchgrn

Ykci.mc.cirdd-wymud.srwc.worxkymr rgk,c.gwchgrckp.kcp.wce.fvpkckpr
rsrchlc .gschkprxcxr.wrxmchlckprcu.urxckp.kc hxgygvncYkci.mcihxwrwckh
.kkx.ekc.kkrgkyhg,c.gwcykcp.wc.epyrorwcykmchjtrekncJfkciprxrchkprxm
iphcxr.wcykcp.wc rxrdscm ydrwc.gwc .xorddrwcywdscphic.gsjhwscehfdw
murgwcvhhwc hgrscufkkygvcghgmrgmrcdyzrckpymcygckprcu.urx,ckhcLxrwwyr
ykmcy uhxkci.mciphddscmrxyhfmncYkcxr.wckhcpy cdyzrckprcXr.dcKpygvn
Pymc hkyhg-uyekfxr-kx.ygrwc ygwc.eerukrwckpymc.worxkymr rgkc.kcykm
l.er-o.dfrn

Ykcx.gc.mclhddhim:--

cc_DR.ORcYKcKHcUM YKP!_

ccUm ykpcIyddcPrducShf

ccUm ykpcYmcXr.wscLhxc.gskpygv

ccWHcSHFcI.GK

ccMh rhgrcKhc .g.vrcShfxc.ll.yxm?

ccMh rhgrcKhcP.gwdrcShfxcJfmygrmm?

ccMh rhgrcKhcK.zrcKprcWhvcLhxc.cXfg?

ccMh rhgrcKhc.mm.mmyg.krcShfxc.fgk?

ccUM YKPcIYDDcWHcYK

ccEXY RcGHKcHJTREKRWcKH

ccIp.krorxcThjcShfcP.orcKhcHllrx

cc(UxhoywrwcYkcP.mcGhkpygvcKhcWhcIykpcLymp)

cc_DR.ORcYKcKHcUM YKP!_

cc.wwxrmmc.uudye.kyhgmcKhc‘XncUm ykp,cJhqc365’

cc_DR.ORcYKcKHcUM YKP!_

Lxrwwyrcd.ywckprcu.urxcwhigciykpc.cwrrucygk.zrchlcjxr.kpncPrcuyezrwcyk
fuc.v.yg,c.gwcxr.wckprc.worxkymr rgkc.cmrehgwcky rncSrm,cykcmhfgwrw
vhhwn

 hxr,cykcp.wcmh rkpygvchlckprcbf.dykschlc.cwyxrekc.gmirxckhcux.srxn
OrxscoyoywdscghicLxrwwyrcxr.dymrwckp.kcip.kcprcp.wcjrrgciympygvclhxci.m
.cu.xkgrxckhcmp.xrckprcurxydmchlckpymcrgkrxuxymrcipyepcprcp.wcmhcx.mpds
fgwrxk.zrgncYgcl.ek,cghkcmhc fepckhcmp.xrckpr c.mckhck.zrckpr chllcpym
mphfdwrxmc.dkhvrkprxnc.gwcmfepc.cu.xkgrxcprci.mcghicygc.cuhmykyhgckh
eh  .gwncFgedrcThrci.mcvhygvckhcvyorcpy ckihckphfm.gwcylcprcjxhfvpkckpr
kpygvchllncKpymc.worxkymr rgkclrddhicihfdwcuxhj.jdscjrcep.x rwckhceh r
ygclhxc.clricpfgwxrwcncncn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Kihc ygfkrmcd.krx,cLxrwwyrci.mc.kckprcixykygv-wrmz,cmexyjjdygvc.
drkkrxncLxh cky rckhcky rcprcvd.gerwclfxkyordschorxcpymcmphfdwrxc.kckpr
whhxncJfkckprcphfmrci.mcmkyddncGhclhhkmkrumce. rckhcygkrxxfukcpy c.k
pymck.mzn


§c5

Lxrwwyrcirgkchfkcygkhckprcv.xwrgncPrcp.wcghkci.gwrxrwcl.xciprgclxh 
mh riprxrcedhmrc.kcp.gwckprxrci.mcjhxgrckhcpy chgckprcjxrrarc.cxr .xz
ygc.cpyvpcohyerc.jhfkcMehkkympchjmkyg.es,cipyepcehfdwchgdscp.or
uxherrwrwclxh chgrcmhfxerncPrcbfyezrgrwcpymcmkrumn

“P.ddh,cvfo’ghxn”

“Irdd,cLxrwrxyez?”

Lxrwwyrcmpflldrwn

“Ycm.s,cvfo’ghx,cwhcshfckpygzcYc yvpkcvhcfuckhckhigciykpcshfckpym
.lkrxghhg?”

“Ip.k!”

“L.ekcym,cYchfvpkckhcmrrc scwrgkymkncP.org’kcjrrgckhcpy clhxc.cwrferchl
.cky rn”

“Yce.gghkcmrrckprcgrermmyksclhxcshfckhcoymykc.cDhgwhgcwrgkymkncKprxr
ymc.gcrqerddrgkc .gcygcMpxrimjfxs,c.gwcshfczghicYcp.orckprcmkxhgvrmk
hjtrekyhgckhcshfxcvhygvckhcDhgwhgn”

“Irdd,cshfcmrr,ckpymclrddhicfgwrxmk.gwmc scmg.uurxmnc.di.smcjrrgckh
py ,cYc r.gckhcm.snc.gsjhwsciphczghimc.gskpygvc.jhfkckprmrckpygvmciydd
krddcshfcvxr.krmkc ymk.zrcvhcjfaaygvc.jhfkckhcwyllrxrgkcwrgkymkmn”

.dxr.wscDhxwcR mihxkp’mc.kkrgkyhgci.mci.gwrxygvcj.ezckhckprci.ykygv
 e.ddymkrxn

“Hp,corxscirdd,corxscirddn”

“Kp.gzmc.ilfdds,cvfo’ghxn”

“JfkchgchgrckpygvcYcygmymk,cLxrwrxyezncYce.gghkcp.orcshfcdh.lygvc.jhfk
Dhgwhgckprciphdrcw.sncShfc fmkce.kepckprckirdor-lylksckx.ygcj.ezn”

“XyvpkcphncKp.k’ddcjrc.ddcxyvpk,cvfo’ghxn”

“Ghi,cdymkrgckhcxr.mhg,c e.ddymkrx,”cm.ywcpymcdhxwmpyunc“Kp.kcymc.ddcY
.mzcshfckhcwh--dymkrgckhcxr.mhgcncncn”




EP.UKRXcYY

RGKRXcUM YKP


§c1

.kc.jhfkckprcphfxciprgcDhxwcR mihxkp’mckx.yg,cipyxdygvcpy c.gwcpymcmhg
LxrwwyrckhcDhgwhg,cp.wcxr.eprwckprcp.dl-i.scuhygkcygcykmcthfxgrs,c.
orxsck.dd,corxsckpyg,corxscmhdr gcshfgvc .g,cvdr. ygvcygc.cmurezdrmm
khucp.kc.gwc.c hxgygv-eh.kchlcyxxruxh.ep.jdrclyk,c hfgkrwckprcmkrum
hlcGf jrxcRyvpkrrg,cI.ddygvlhxwcMkxrrk,cIrmkcZrgmygvkhg,c.gwcx.gvckpr
lxhgk-whhxcjrddncKpymcwhgr,cprcxr horwckprcp.k;c.gwcp.oygvckhfeprwcpym
lhxrpr.wcdyvpkdsciykpc.cmydzcp.gwzrxepyrl,clhxckprc.lkrxghhgcmfgci.m
i.x ,cv.arwc.jhfkcpy ciykpc.cvx.orcwymk.mkrn

“.cme.dscgryvpjhfxphhw!”cprc fx fxrwn

Kprcshfgvc .g’mctfwv rgkci.mchgrc.kcipyepclricurhudrciykpc.gcrsrclhx
jr.fkscihfdwcp.orce.oyddrwncIprgckprcvxr.kcxrohdfkyhgc.v.ygmkcDhgwhg’m
fvdygrmmcxr.ddscmk.xkmc.gwcsrddygvcphxwrmchlc.xkymkmc.gwc.xepykrekm,
 .wwrgrwcjrshgwcrgwfx.ger,clyg.ddsck.zrckprcd.icygkhckpryxchigcp.gwm
.gwcx.vrckpxhfvpckprceykscjfxgygvc.gwcwrmkxhsygv,cI.ddygvlhxwcMkxrrk,
IrmkcZrgmygvkhg,ciyddcmfxrdscghkcrme.urckprckhxepncDhgvcmygercykc fmk
p.orcjrrgc .xzrwcwhigclhxcwrmkxfekyhgncLhx,ckphfvpcykcuhmmrmmrmcerxk.yg
 rxykmchlc.cdhicux.ekye.dczygw,cjrygvcygrqurgmyorcygckprc .kkrxchl
xrgkmc.gwcp.gwsclhxckprcjfmrmc.gwckprcFgwrxvxhfgw,cykcymc.curefdy.xds
jr.mkdscdykkdrcmkxrrkncMykf.krwcygckprc ywwdrchlchgrchlckphmr
wymkxyekmciprxrcDhgwhgcjxr.zmchfkcygkhc.cmhxkchlcrear .chlcxrwcjxyez,
ykcehgmymkmchlckihcu.x.ddrdcxhimchlcmr y-wrk.eprwcoydd.m,c.ddcrq.ekds
.dyzr,cr.epcvf.xwrwcjsc.cx.vvrwcrorxvxrrgcprwvr,cr.epciykpcehdhfxrw
vd.mmchlc.gcrqkxr rdscxrvxrkk.jdrcg.kfxrcdrkcygkhckprcu.grdmchlckpr
lxhgkcwhhx;c.gwcmrgmykyorcshfgvcy uxrmmyhgymkmclxh ckprc.xkymkm’cehdhgs
fucPhdd.gwcU.xzci.sc .scmh rky rmcjrcmrrgcmkf jdygvckpxhfvpcykciykp
p.gwmchorxckpryxcrsrm,c fkkrxygvcjrkirrgcedrgeprwckrrkpc“Phicdhgv?cPhi
dhgv?”

.cm .ddc .yw-hl-.dd-ihxzc.uur.xrwcygc.gmirxckhckprcjrdd,c.gwcmkhhw
kx.gmlyqrwc.mckprcoymykhx,cuxhwfeygvc.c hghedr,cud.erwcykcygcpymcxyvpk
rsrc.gwcygmurekrwcprxckpxhfvpcykn

“.ci.x c.lkrxghhg,”cprcm.ywcehxwy.ddsn

“Srm,cmyxn”

“Jfkcudr.m.gk,”cfxvrwckprcshfgvc .gnc“Krddc r,cymc xmncT.ezmhgc.kcph r?”

“Gh,cmyxn”

“Ghkc.kcph r?”

“Gh,cmyxn”

Kprcshfgvc .gcmyvprwn

“.pcirdd,”cprcm.yw,c“irc fmkc.di.smcxr r jrxckp.kckprmrcwym.uuhygk rgkm
.xrcmrgkckhcfmclhxcmh rcvhhwcufxuhmrncGhcwhfjkckprsc .zrcfmc hxr
muyxykf.dncIyddcshfcyglhx cprxckp.kcYce.ddrw?cKprcg. rcymcUm ykpn
U-m ykpn”

“Ur.m ykp,cmyx?”

“Gh,cghncU-m- -y-k-pncYcmphfdwcrqud.ygckhcshfckp.kcYcmk.xkrwcdylr
iykphfkckprcygyky.dcdrkkrx,c.gwc scl.kprxc.di.smcedfgvcxfvvrwdsckhckpr
ud.ygcM ykpncJfkcykcmrr rwckhc rckp.kckprxrcirxrcmhc .gscM ykpmcygckpr
ihxdwckp.kc.cdykkdrco.xyrksc yvpkcirddcjrcygkxhwferwncM skprcYcdhhzchg
.mc.cehi.xwdscro.myhg,cghxcwhcYc.uuxhorchlckprckhhcuxro.drgkcefmkh chl
k.ezygvc.ghkprxcg. rchgcygclxhgkcjsc r.gmchlc.cpsuprgncMhcYcwreywrwckh
.whukckprcUm ykpncKprcu,cYcmphfdwc.wwclhxcshfxcvfyw.ger,cymcmydrgk,c.m
ygcupkpymym,cumsepye,c.gwcuk.x yv.gncShfclhddhic r?”

“S-srm,cmyxn”

“Shfcwhg’kckpygz,”cprcm.ywc.gqyhfmds,c“kp.kcYcwywcixhgvcygcufxmfygv
kpymcehfxmr?”

“G-gh,cmyxn”

“Mudrgwyw!”cm.ywckprcshfgvc .g,cldyezygvc.cmurezchlcwfmkclxh cpym
eh.k-mdrrornc“Mudrgwyw!cMudrgwyw!”

.gwciykpc.cehfxkrhfmcjhicprcwrmergwrwckprcmkrumc.gwc .wrcpymci.scwhig
kprcmkxrrkncKprcdykkdrc .yw,cp.oygvclhddhirwcpy ciykpcjfdvygvcrsrmckydd
prci.mchfkchlcmyvpk,cedhmrwckprcwhhxc.gwcxrkfxgrwckhcprxczykeprgn

Um ykpcmkxhddrwc rwyk.kyordschgncKprcvrgy.dci.x kpchlckprc.lkrxghhg
mhhkprwcpy ncPrcpf  rwcdyvpkds--hgdscmkhuuygvciprg,c.mcprcxr.eprwckpr
rgwchlckprcmkxrrk,c.cshfgvc .gchlcpymchigc.vr,cxhfgwygvckprcehxgrx
x.uywds,c.d hmkcx.gcygkhcpy n

“Mhxxs,”cm.ywckprcshfgvc .gnc“P.ddh,cM ykpn”

Um ykpcv.arwcfuhgcpy ciykpcjrgrohdrgkc.llrekyhgn

“Eh x.wrcT.ezmhg,”cprcm.yw,c“kpymcymcirddc rkncKprchgrc .gchlc.dd
hkprxmciph cYcihfdwcp.orciymprwckhcrgehfgkrxncIrciyddcuhuchll
mh riprxr,cEh x.wrcT.ezmhg,cmphfdwcshfxcrgv.vr rgkmcurx yk,c.gwcxrmkhxr
hfxckymmfrmciykpc.cefuchlckr.ncYcp.wcphurwckhckhfepckprcT.ezmhgcl. yds
lhxcmh rcmdyvpkcxrlxrmp rgk,cjfkcYci.mcyglhx rwckp.kcshfxciylrci.mchfkn”

 yzrcT.ezmhgcd.fvprwn

“Upsddymcymg’kchfkncMprcncncn”

“Ghkchfk?cKprg,”cm.ywcUm ykp,cu.ygrw,c“kprxrcp.mcjrrgcwyxkscihxzcwhgr
kpymcw.sncLhxcYci.mckfxgrwclxh ckprcwhhxncYkcihfdwcghkcjrcrq.vvrx.kygv
khcm.sckp.kcYci.mcvyorgckprcjyxwncYmckpymckprcjh.mkrwcT.ezmhg
phmuyk.dyks?”

“Upsddymcymcvyoygvc.ckr.ckhcmh rchlcprxchdwcmephhdcu.dm,”crqud.ygrw
 yzrnc“Mprckhdwckprc .ywckhcm.scmprci.mg’kc.kcph rckhc.gsjhwscrdmrncY’ 
ghkc.ddhirwcygc smrdln”

“Rghfvp,cEh x.wrcT.ezmhg!”cm.ywcUm ykpc.vxrr.jdsnc“M.scghc hxrncYlcshf
shfxmrdlcp.orcjrrgcjhhkrwchfkcygcmuykrchlc.ddckprcdhoygv,cphghfxygv,
.gwchjrsygvcshfxciylrcuxh ymrwc.kckprc.dk.x,ciphc. cYckhceh ud.yg?c.gw
uhmmyjds,chgrce.gcehgmhdrchgrmrdlcjscxrldrekygv,circ.xrcirddchfkchl
ykncKprmrcv.kprxygvmchlchdwcvyxdm’-mephhdcepf mc.xrcghkckprcmhxkchl
lfgekyhgcshfxc .gchlc.ll.yxmci.gkmckhcvrkcdfvvrwcygkhncE.uyk.dceh u.gs
.mcirc.xr,cEh x.wrcT.ezmhg,circmphfdwcwhfjkdrmmcp.orcjrrgcrqkxr rds
ygckprci.sncYcmfuuhmrckprcehgorxm.kyhgcihfdwcp.orcwr.dkcrqedfmyords
iykpcxr ygymergermchlckprcwr.xchdwcmephhd,chlck.drmchlcmfxxrukykyhfm
eheh.-wxygzygvcygckprcwhx ykhxyrmc.gwcip.kckprcwruhxk rgkc ymkxrmmcm.yw
iprgc.gvrd.ci.mclhfgwcepriygvckhj.eehcygckprcmpxfjjrxsncSrm,cYcl.gescir
p.orcghkc ymmrwc.cdhkncncncncJsckprci.s,cYcwhg’kckpygzc fepchlckprcgri
ph rncKxfr,cYchgdscm.icykclxh ckprchfkmywr,cjfkcncncncgh,cYcwhg’kckpygz
 fepchlcykn”

“Jrmkcirce.gc.llhxwn”

“.gwciph,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“. cYckhck.fgkc scjhsphhwclxyrgwciykpcpym
phgrmkcuhorxks?cRmurey.ddsc.mcYc smrdlc. cmk.gwygvchgckprcorxscjxygzchl
wrmkykfkyhgn”

“Shf?”

“YcygcurxmhgncKp.kcdhic h.gygvcmhfgwcshfcpr.xcymckprcihdlcjyohf.ezrw
hfkmywrc scwhhxn”

“JfkcYckphfvpkcshfxcfgedrcv.orcshfcx.kprxc.cvhhwcm.d.xsn”

“MhcprcwywncJfkc scfgedrc.gwcYc.xrc.jhfkckhcu.xkceh u.gsncLxh cghichg
pr,cmhckhcmur.z,ciyddck.zrckprcpyvpcxh.wc.gwcY’ddck.zrckprcdhicxh.wncY
wygrciykpcpy ckh-gyvpk,c.gwchorxckprcgfkmc.gwciygrcYcmp.ddcp.gwcpy 
kprcj.wcgrimckp.kcYcuxhuhmrckhcxrmyvgc scuhmykyhgcygckprclyx ncYcp.or
ghcwhfjkckp.kcprcmfuuhmrwcprci.mcwhygvc rc.cvhhwckfxgcjscmk.xkygvc rcyg
pymclympcjfmygrmm,cjfkcrorgcip.kcdykkdrcrqurxyrgercYcp.orcp.wchlcykcp.m
ehgoygerwc rckp.kcykcymcghkc scuxhurxcmuprxrncKprcipymurxcldyrmcxhfgw
kprcedfjmc‘Um ykpcp.mcghkclhfgwcpymcgyepr!’

“Yc. cghk,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“.gcfgxr.mhg.jdrc .gncYcxr.dymrckp.kcpf .gyks
 fmkcjrcmfuudyrwciykpclympncYc. cghkc.orxmrclxh c.cjykchlclympc smrdln
Jfkckhcjrcuxhlrmmyhg.ddscehggrekrwciykpc.clyx ckp.kcp.gwdrmckpr
 .krxy.dcygckprcx.icymcghkc scywr.chlc.cd.xvrcdylr-ihxzncXr ygwc rckh
krddcshfcmh rcky rcip.kcykclrrdmcdyzrckhcmdygvcshfxmrdlchfkchlcjrwc.k
lhfxc.n nc.gwcvhcwhigckhckhydcygcJyddygvmv.krc .xzrkncGh,ckprxrcym
 hgrscygclymp-- scfgedrcp.mc .wrc.cuhkchlcyk--jfkcip.kcYclrrdcymckp.k
kprxrc fmkcjrchkprxci.dzmcygcdylrclhxc.cjxyvpkcshfgvc .gncYcepfezcyk
kh-gyvpkn”

“Ip.kc.xrcshfcvhygvckhcwh,ckprg?”

“Kp.k,cEh x.wrcT.ezmhg,cymc hxrchxcdrmmchgckprczgrrmchlckprcvhwmn
Kh- hxxhic hxgygvcYckpygzcYciyddcmkxhddcxhfgwckhc.gcr udhs rgkc.vrges
.gwcmrrcphickprc .xzrkclhxcjxyvpkcshfgvc rgcmk.gwmncWhcshfczghic.cvhhw
hgr?”

“Upsddymc.di.smcvhrmckhc ymmcEd.xzmhg’mcygcMp.lkrmjfxsc.orgfrn
Jfkcncncn”

“ ymmcEd.xzmhg’mcygcMp.lkrmjfxsc.orgfrncYciyddc .zrc.cghkrchlcykcncncn
 r.gipydr,cYcihgwrxcylcshfcm.ickprc_ hxgygvcVdhjr_ckh-w.s?”

“GhncIps?”

“Ycp.wc.gc.worxkymr rgkcygcyk,cygcipyepcYcrquxrmmrwc smrdlc.m
iyddygv--ygwrrw,cr.vrx--khck.ezdrc.gscfgwrxk.zygvckp.kcp.wcghkpygvckh
whciykpclympncYc. cehglywrgkdscrqurekygvcmph.dmchlcxrudyrmncYcdhhz
lhxi.xwckhciygghiygvckprcpr.uc.gwcmrdrekygvckprc hmkcwrmyx.jdrn”

“Uxrkkscp.xwckhcvrkc.cthjckprmrcw.sm,”cm.ywc yzrcwhfjklfddsn

“Ghkcylcshfcp.orcmh rkpygvcmfurxd.kyordscvhhwckhchllrxn”

“Ip.kcp.orcshfcvhkckhchllrx?”

“ scmrxoyerm,”cm.ywcUm ykpciykpcl.ygkcxruxh.epn

“Ip.kc.m?”

“.mc.gskpygvncYc .wrcghcxrmkxyekyhgmncIhfdwcshfce.xrckhck.zrc.cdhhzc.k
 sc .gylrmkh?cYcp.orc.cehuscygc scuhezrkn”

Um ykpcuxhwferwclxh cygmywrcpymcy  .efd.krci.ymkeh.kc.clhdwrwcedyuuygvn

“Ycmphfdwcirdeh rcshfxchuygyhgchlcyk,cEh x.wrcT.ezmhgncYcp.or
lxrbfrgkdscm.ywckp.kclhxcmkfxwsceh  hgcmrgmrcshfcmk.gwc.dhgrncShfx
tfwv rgkcmphfdwcjrcygo.df.jdrn”

Kprc.worxkymr rgk,cipyepcmh rcphfxmcr.xdyrxcp.wcmhcrdrekxylyrwckprcPhgn
LxrwwyrcKpxrruihhwcygckprcm hzygv-xhh c.kcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdr,cmrr rwckh
.llrekc yzr,ciphmrc ygwci.mchlckprcmkhdywc.gwcmrxyhfmcksur,cmh rip.k
wyllrxrgkdsncPrclygymprwcpymcurxfm.dc.gwcmk.xrwcmurrepdrmmdsn

“Gr.k,cwhg’kcshfckpygz?”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Ehorxmckprcvxhfgwc.wrbf.krds?cY
kpygzcmh,cYckpygzcmhn”

“Whcshfc r.gckhcm.scshf’xrcvhygvckhcufkcwxyordcdyzrckp.kcygckprcu.urx?”
.mzrwc yzrn

“Yc_p.or_cufkcykcygckprcu.urxnc.mcYckhdwcshf,cykc.uur.xrwckpymc hxgygvn
Jsckpymcky rckh- hxxhicYcmp.ddcghcwhfjkcp.orclygymprwcmhxkygvchfkckpr
lyxmkcj.kepchlcxrudyrmn”

 yzr’mcr hkyhgckhhzcpy cj.ezckhckprcupx.mrhdhvschlcmephhdcw.smn

“Shfc_.xr_c.gc.mm!”

Um ykpcxrmkhxrwckprcedyuuygvckhcpymci.ymkeh.kcuhezrkn

“Shfcihfgwc r,cEh x.wrcT.ezmhg,”cprcm.ywnc“Ycp.wcrqurekrwc.cjxh.wrx
hfkdhhzclxh cshfncYgcl.ek,cYcx.kprxcmfuuhmrwckp.kcshfcihfdwcp.orcxfmprw
xhfgwcygmk.gkdsckhckprchllyermchlckprcthfxg.dc.gwcmphorwcygc.cmy yd.x
.worxkymr rgkcshfxmrdlncJfkcghkpygvckp.kcshfce.gcm.sce.gcw. uc s
jfhs.gkcmuyxykncKprcexscvhrmcxhfgwcZrgmygvkhgc(.gwcwymkxyek)c‘Um ykpcym
hll!’cYgcip.kcwyxrekyhgckprcexsch ykmckhcmk.kr:cjfkckp.kcyglhx .kyhg
kprclfkfxrciyddcmfuudsnc.gwcghi,cEh x.wrcT.ezmhg,cdrkcfmckxyezdrcygkh
shgwrxckr.-mphuc.gwcwxygzcmfeermmckhckprcorgkfxrcygc.cefuchlckpr
mkr. ygvncYcp.wc.cu.xkyefd.xdscp.xwc hxgygvckh-w.sc. hgvckprcipykrj.yk,
.gwcYcgrrwcxrlxrmp rgkn”


§c2

.lkrxcUm ykpcp.wciykpwx.igcpymcmurek.efd.xcurxmhgclxh cyk,ckprxrci.m
.gcygkrxo.dchlcurxp.umckirgksc ygfkrmcjrlhxrc.gskpygvcrdmrcheefxxrwckh
jxyvpkrgckprcwx.jgrmmchlcI.ddygvlhxwcMkxrrkncKprcdrkp.xvschlc.lkrxghhg
prdwckprckphxhfvpl.xrcygcykmcvxyuncHee.myhg.ddsc.ckx.wrm .g’mce.xk
ihfdwcx.kkdrcxhfgwckprcehxgrx,c.gwclxh cky rckhcky rce.kmc.uur.xrw,
mk.dzygvcufxuhmrlfddsc. hgvckprcrorxvxrrgmncJfkc.kckrgc ygfkrmckhclyor
.cvyxdcx.gcfuckprcmkrumchlcGf jrxcRyvpkrrgc.gwcx.gvckprcjrddn

Mprci.mc.cvyxdchlc rwyf cpryvpk,corxscmkx.yvpkc.gwcmdy ;c.gwcprxcl.yx
p.yx,cprxceprrxlfdcm ydr,c.gwckprcjhsympcmfuudrgrmmchlcprxcjhwsc.dd
ehgkxyjfkrwckhc.cvrgrx.dcrllrekchlco.dy.gkcv.yrks,c.cmhxkchlcvhdwrg
mfggygrmm--.eergkf.krwcjsckprcl.ekckp.k,cdyzrc.ddcvyxdmciphcdhhzrwckh
U.xymclhxcygmuyx.kyhgcygckpryxcwxrmmckp.kcmr.mhg,cmprci.mcir.xygvcjd.ezn

Kprcm .ddc .ywc.uur.xrwc.v.ygn

“Ymc xmncT.ezmhgc.kcph r?”cm.ywckprcvyxdnc“Yckpygzcmpr’mcrqurekygvc rn
 ymmcP.ddyw.sn”

“Srm,c ymm?”

.cwhhxc.kckprcrgwchlckprcg.xxhicp.ddcp.wchurgrwn

“Ymckp.kcshf,cRor?”

“P.ddh,cUpsd,cw.xdygvn”

UpsddymcT.ezmhgcldfkkrxrwcwhigckprcu.mm.vrcdyzrc.cxhmr-dr.lchgckpr
iygw,c.gwcpfxdrwcprxmrdlcygkhcRor’mc.x mncMprci.mcm .ddc.gwclx.vydr,
iykpcvxr.kcjxhigcrsrmcfgwrxc.cedhfwchlcw.xzcp.yxncMprcp.wc.ciymklfd
dhhz,c.gwc hmkcurhudrciphczgricprxci.gkrwckhcurkcprxncRorcp.wc.di.sm
urkkrwcprx,clxh ckpryxclyxmkcw.smc.kcmephhdckhvrkprxn

“. cYcd.krchxcr.xds?”c.mzrwcRorn

“Shf’xrckprclyxmk,cjfkcircihg’kci.ykncT.gr,ciyddcshfcjxygvckr.cygkhckpr
wx.iygv-xhh n”

“Srm’ n”

“.gw,cxr r jrx,cYcwhg’kci.gkckhcmrrc.gshgrclhxckprcxrmkchlckpr
.lkrxghhgncYlc.gsjhwsce.ddm,ckrddckpr cY’ cghkc.kcph rncRqerukc ymm
Ed.xzmhgc.gwc xmnc eKhww,chlcehfxmrn”

“Srm’ n”

“Iphcymc xmnc eKhww?”cygbfyxrwcRornc“Ymckp.kcEsgkpy.?”

“SrmncWywg’kcshfczghicmprcp.wc .xxyrwcX.dmkhgc eKhww,ckprcE.g.wy.g
uhrk?cShfczgricmprcirgkchfkckhcE.g.w.?”

“Yczgrickp.k,csrmncJfkcYcp.wg’kcpr.xwckp.kcmprci.mc .xxyrwncLfggscphi
hfkchlckhfepchgrcvrkmciykpcvyxdmciphcirxrchgr’mcjrmkclxyrgwmc.kcmephhdn
Whcshfcxr.dymrcyk’mcgr.xdsckihcsr.xmcmygercYcm.icshf?”

“YczghincYmg’kcykc.ilfd!cYcvhkcshfxc.wwxrmmclxh cRdm.cIrgkihxkpckihchx
kpxrrcw.smc.vh,c.gwckprgcEd.xzyrckhdwc rckp.kcEsgkpy.ci.mchorxcprxrchg
.coymykciykpcprxcpfmj.gw,cmhcYckphfvpkcphicthddscykcihfdwcjrckhcp.orc.
xrvfd.xcxrfgyhgncIrckpxrrcirxrcmfepclxyrgwmcygckprchdwcw.smncncncncShf
xr r jrxcEd.xzyr,chlcehfxmr?c ymmcEd.xzmhg,ciphcfmrwckhcjrcRgvdymp
 ymkxrmmc.kcI.sd.gwcPhfmrn”

“Srm,chlcehfxmrncIprxrcwywcshfcxfgcygkhcprx?”

“Hp,cYcmrrc.cdhkchlcprxncMprcxfgmc.cWh rmkyecR udhs rgkc.vrgescyg
Mp.lkrmjfxsc.orgfrcghi,c.gwcYcp.orckhcvhckprxrc.jhfkchgerc.clhxkgyvpk
khcvrkc.cgric .ywncMprcmfuudyrwcT.grn”

“YmcEsgkpy.’mcpfmj.gwceh ygvciykpcprxckpymc.lkrxghhg?”

“GhncYci.gkrwcykckhcjrcmy udscfmclhfxncWhcshfczghicpy ?cJfkchlcehfxmr
shfcwhg’kncKpymcymcpymclyxmkcoymykckhcRgvd.gwn”

“YczghicpymcuhrkxsncPr’mcbfykrc.cerdrjxyksncEsgkpy.’mcdfezsn”

Kprscp.wc .wrckpryxci.scygkhckprcwx.iygv-xhh ,c.cvxfrmh rcdykkdr
.u.xk rgkclfddchlc.ddckphmrc.gky .e.mm.xm,ci.qcldhirxm,c.gwcepyg.cwhvm
ygmru.x.jdrclxh ckprcepr.urxcksurchlcDhgwhgclfxgymprwcphfmrncRor,
kphfvpckprcrqkrxyhxchlcGf jrxcRyvpkrrgcmphfdwcp.orcuxru.xrwcprxclhxc.dd
kpym,ci.mcfg.jdrckhceprezc.cmdyvpkcmpfwwrxc.mcmprce.fvpkckprcrsrchlckpr
dr.mkcuxruhmmrmmygvchlckprcwhvm,cvhvvdygvc.kcprxclxh ckprc .gkrduyrern

“Whg’kcdhhzc.kckpr ,”cxreh  rgwrwcUpsddym,clhddhiygvcprxcv.arnc“Yckxs
ghkckhncIr’orchgdsctfmkc horwcygcprxr,cmhcYcp.org’kcp.wcky rckhc .zr
kprcud.ercgyerncPrxr’mckr.nc.ddcxyvpk,cT.gr,cufkcykcwhigckprxrncKr.,
Ror?”

Rorcm.kcwhigncMprci.mcufaadrwc.gwcefxyhfmncMprckpxricprxc ygwcj.ezckh
kprcw.smc.kcmephhdc.gwcxr r jrxrwckprcUpsddymchlckp.kcruhepc.mc.d hmk
ygwrergkdschufdrgknc.c yddyhg.yxrcmkrul.kprxckprxrcp.wcjrrgckprg,cmpr
xrehddrekrwncIp.kcp.wcjreh rchlcpy cghi,ckp.kcprcmphfdwc.ddhicUpsddym
khcmk.scygcmfxxhfgwygvmcdyzrckpym?cRorcmergkrwc.c smkrxs,c.gwcygcprx
efmkh .xscmkx.yvpklhxi.xwci.scirgkckhckprcpr.xkchlcykn

“Krddc rc.ddc.jhfkcshfxmrdl,”cmprcm.yw,cp.oygvc.epyrorwc.mc fepceh lhxk
.mckprcurefdy.xcmkxfekfxrchlcprxcep.yxcihfdwcurx yknc“.gwcxr r jrxckp.k
Ycp.org’kcmrrgcshfclhxckihcsr.xm,cmhcwhg’kcdr.orc.gskpygvchfkn”

“Yk’mcmhcwyllyefdkckhczghiciprxrckhcmk.xkn”

“Irdd,cshfcmyvgrwcshfxcdrkkrxc‘UpsddymcT.ezmhgn’cMk.xkciykpckpr
 smkrxyhfmcT.ezmhgncIprxrcwhrmcprceh rcyg?cKprcd.mkcYcpr.xwc.jhfk
shfci.mc.gc.gghfger rgkcygckprc_ hxgygvcUhmk_ckp.kcshfcirxrcrgv.vrw
kh--Y’orclhxvhkkrgckprcg. r,cjfkcY’ cerxk.ygcykci.mg’kcT.ezmhgn”

“Xhddhc hfgklhxwn”

“I.mcyk?cIrdd,cip.kcp.mcjreh rchlcXhddh?cShfcmrr ckhcp.orc ymd.ywcpy n
Wywcshfcjxr.zchllckprcrgv.vr rgk?”

“Irdd,cyk--mhxkchlcjxhzrcykmrdlchllncYc r.g,cshfcmrr,cYcirgkc.gw
 .xxyrwc yzrn”

“Rdhurwciykpcpy ,cwhcshfc r.g?”

“Srmn”

“Vhhwcpr.orgm!”

“Y’ c.ilfddsc.mp. rwc.jhfkckp.k,cRorncYcmfuuhmrcYckxr.krwcXhddhc.ilfdds
j.wdsn”

“Grorxc ygwnc.c .gciykpc.cg. rcdyzrckp.kci.mc .wrclhxcmfllrxygvn”

“Ycgrorxcxr.ddsce.xrwclhxcpy ncPrcp.wcphxxywcmiy  scrsrmcncncn”

“Ycfgwrxmk.gwncMhcshfcrdhurwciykpcshfxc yzrncKrddc rc.jhfkcpy ncIphcym
pr?cIp.kcwhrmcprcwh?”

“Irdd,c.kcuxrmrgkcpr’mc .mkrxc.kc.cmephhdncJfkcprcwhrmg’kcdyzrcykncPr
i.gkmckhcvrkcj.ezckhckprcehfgkxsc.v.ygncIprgcYc rkcpy ,cprci.mc.vrgk
hgc.cud.ercygckprcehfgkxscjrdhgvygvckhcmh rcurhudrcg. rwcM ykpnc yzr
p.wcjrrgc.kcmephhdc.gwcE. jxywvrciykpckprcmhgncKprscirxrcorxscxyep
kprgc.gwcp.wc.cjyvcrmk.krncYkci.mckprcgrqkcud.erckhckprcRwvrdhimncY
p.wcvhgrckhcmk.sciykpc .xscRwvrdhi--Ycwhg’kczghicylcshfcxr r jrxcprx
.kcmephhd?cYc rkc yzrclyxmkc.kc.cw.ger,c.gwckprgcYc rkcpy chfkcxywygv,
.gwckprg--irdd,c.lkrxckp.kcircfmrwckhc rrkcrorxscw.snc.gwcirclrddcyg
dhorcxyvpkclxh ckprcmk.xkc.gwcircirgkc.gwcvhkc .xxyrwncHp,cRor,cYciymp
shfcehfdwcp.orcmrrgchfxcw.xdygvcdykkdrcphfmrncYkci.mc.ddchorxcyosc.gw
xhmrm,c.gwcircp.wcphxmrmc.gwcwhvmc.gwcncncn”

Upsddym’cg.xx.kyorcjxhzrchllciykpc.cvfduncRorcdhhzrwc.kcprx
ms u.kprkye.ddsnc.ddcprxcdylrcmprcprxmrdlcp.wcjrrgcthshfmds
y urefgyhfm,cjfkcykcp.wcgrorxcmrr rwckhc .kkrxncMprci.mcmkxhgvc.gw
.worgkfxhfm,c.gwcxrorddrwcygckprcurxurkf.dcrqeykr rgkchlckxsygvckhc .zr
jhkpcrgwmc rrkncJfkcUpsddymci.mchgrchlckphmrcmirrkcuhxerd.ygcvyxdm
iph ckprcxhfvpgrmmrmchlcdylrcjxfymrcygmkr.wchlcmky fd.kygvncMprcgrrwrw
eh lhxkc.gwcudr.m.gkcmfxxhfgwygvmncRorcdhhzrwc hxhmrdsc.kckprcepyg.
whv,cipyepcdrrxrwcj.ezc.kcprxciykpc.gcygmfllrx.jdrcvhhw-lrddhimpyun

“Ircp.wcp.xwdscvhkc .xxyrw,”cxrmf rwcUpsddym,cjdygzygv,c“iprgcuhhx
 xncM ykpcwyrwc.gwckprciphdrcud.erci.mcjxhzrgcfuncPrc fmkcp.orcjrrg
murefd.kygvchxcmh rkpygv,cYcmfuuhmr,cjre.fmrcprcp.xwdscdrlkc.gsc hgrs,
.gwckprcrmk.krcp.wckhcjrcmhdwnc.gwckprcurhudrciphcjhfvpkcyk--kprscirxr
eh.dcurhudrclxh cIhdorxp. ukhg--p.wc.cgrupriclhxciph ckprsci.gkrwckpr
.vrgkcthj,cmhc yzrcp.wckhcvhncMhcprxrcirc.xrn”

Rorcufkckprcbfrmkyhgcipyepcmprcp.wcjrrgci.ykygvckhc.mzcrorxcmygercmpr
p.wcrgkrxrwckprcphfmrn

“Jfkcip.kc.jhfkcshfxcmkrul.kprx?cMfxrds,ciprgcircirxrc.kcmephhd,cshf
p.wc.cxyepcmkrul.kprxcygckprcj.ezvxhfgwncP.mcprcdhmkcpymc hgrs,ckhh?”

“Ghn”

“Irdd,cipscwhrmg’kcprcprducshf,ckprg?”

“Prcihfdw,cYczghi,cylcprci.mcdrlkckhcpy mrdlncJfkcyk’mc.fgkcEhgmk.gern”

“Ip.k’mc.fgkcEhgmk.ger?c.gwciphc_ym_c.fgkcEhgmk.ger?”

“Irdd,cYce.ddcprxckp.k,cjfkcmpr’mcxr.ddsc scmkru hkprx--mhxkchlncY
mfuuhmrcmpr’mcxr.ddsc scmkru-mkru hkprxnc scmkrul.kprxc .xxyrwc.v.yg
kihcsr.xmc.vhncYkci.mc.fgkcEhgmk.gerciphci.mcmhclfxyhfmciprgcYc .xxyrw
 yzrncMprci.gkrwc rckhc .xxscXhddhncMprcp.mcgrorxclhxvyorgc r,c.gwcmpr
ihg’kcdrkc scmkrul.kprxcwhc.gskpygvckhcprducfmn”

“Jfkckprc .gc fmkcjrc.cihx !”cm.ywcRorcygwyvg.gkdsnc“Ipscwhrmg’kcpr
ygmymk?cShfc.di.smcfmrwckhckrddc rcphiclhgwcprci.mchlcshfn”

“Prcymg’kc.cihx ,cRorncPr’mc.cwr.xncYk’mctfmkckp.kcprcp.mcdrkcprx
jhmmcpy ncMpr’mcx.kprxc.ckrxxhx,cshfczghincMprce.gcjrcbfykrcgyer,
.gwckprs’xrc.ilfddsclhgwchlcr.epchkprx,cjfkcmprcymc.mcp.xwc.mcg.ydm
mh rky rmn”cUpsddymcjxhzrchllncKprclxhgkcwhhxcp.wchurgrw,c.gwckprxr
irxrclhhkmkrumcygckprcp.ddnc“Prxr’mcEd.xzyrncYcphurcmprcp.mcjxhfvpk
Esgkpy.ciykpcprxncMprci.mckhcuyezcprxcfuchgcprxci.sncWhg’kck.dzc.jhfk
ip.kcY’orcjrrgckrddygvcshfcygclxhgkchlcprx,cRor,ckprxr’mc.gc.gvrdn”

“Ipscghk?”

“Mpr’mcmhc hkprxdsc.jhfkcykncYk’mcmirrkchlcprx,cjfkcncncn”

Rorcfgwrxmkhhwn

“.ddcxyvpkncD.krxchgn”

Kprcwhhxchurgrwckhc.w ykc ymmcEd.xzmhgn

Kprc.wtrekyorcipyepcUpsddymcp.wc.uudyrwckhcprxcd.krcmephhd ymkxrmm
i.mchjoyhfmdscirddcephmrgnc ymmcEd.xzmhgcrqfwrwc hkprxdygrmmncMprci.m
d.xvr,ciphdrmh r,c.gwcmhlk,c.gwcmprcmihhurwchgcRorcdyzrc.cprgchgcykm
epyezrgc.d hmkcjrlhxrckprcwhhxcp.wcedhmrwn

“Ror!cPhicgyerckhcmrrcshfc.lkrxc.ddckpymcky r!c scwr.x,cshf’xrcdhhzygv
urxlrekdscdhords!c.gwc_mh_cuxhmurxhfmncIp.kc.cjr.fkylfdcp.k!”

“Y’orcjrrgcrgosygvcykcrorxcmygercshfce. r,cRor,”cm.ywcUpsddymnc“Iprxr
wywcshfcvrkcyk?”

“ .wrdrygrcMœfxm,cygcXrvrgkcMkxrrkn”

 ymmcEd.xzmhg,cp.oygvc.ebfyxrwc.gwcmkyxxrwc.cefuchlckr.,cmk.xkrwckh
y uxhorckprchee.myhgncRorcp.wc.di.smcjrrgc.cl.ohfxykrchlcprxmc.k
mephhdncMprcjr. rwc.llrekyhg.krdscfuhgcprxn

“Ghicwhrmg’kckpymcmphi--ip.kcYc.di.smcfmrwckhcm.sckhcshfcygckprcwr.x
hdwcw.sm,cRor--kp.kchgrc fmkcgrorxcwrmu.yx,cphirorxcjd.ezckprchfkdhhz
 .scmrr ?cYcxr r jrxcshfc.kcmephhd,cwr.x,c.mcuhhxc.mc.cepfxepc hfmr,
.gwciykpcghcuxhmurekm,cghgrcip.krorxnc.gwcsrkcprxrcshfc.xr--xyepcncncn”

Rorcd.fvprwncMprcvhkcfuc.gwczymmrwc ymmcEd.xzmhgncMprcxrvxrkkrwckp.k
mprci.mceh urddrwckhcmkxyzrc.ct.xxygvcghkr,cjfkcykcp.wckhcjrcwhgrn

“Y’ c.ilfddscmhxxs,cEd.xzyrcwr.x,”cmprcm.yw,c“jfkcY’ c.lx.ywcY’or
 ymdrwcshfncY’ ctfmkc.mcjxhzrc.mcYcrorxci.mncYgcl.ek,ciprgcUpsddym
khdwc rcshfcirxrcxfggygvc.gcR udhs rgkc.vrges,cYc .wrc.cghkrckhceh r
.gwcmrrcshfc.gwc.mzcylcshfcp.wcmh rc.kkx.ekyorcjyddrkckhcwymuhmrchln
Vhorxgrmmckhc.ckphxhfvpdsc.gvrdyecepydwcihfdwcwhncHxcymg’kckprxrcmh r
gyercehmsc.fkphxchxcmh rkpygvciphci.gkmcpymcdrkkrxmc.gmirxrwc.gwcpym
uxrmm-edyuuygvmcu.mkrwcygc.gc.djf ?”

“Hp,c scwr.x!”c ymmcEd.xzmhgci.mcwrrudscehgerxgrwnc“Ycwywcphurcncncn
Kp.kcp.kcncncnc!”

“Kprcp.k’mckprciphdrckxhfjdrncHlcehfxmrcYcp.wcghcjfmygrmmcrorgckhckpygz
hlcyk,cjfkcYcm.icykcygckprcmphu-iygwhic.gwcehorkrwcykclhxcw.sm,c.gw
lyg.ddsclrddnc.gwckprg,cshfcmrr,cYcp.wckhcdyorcfuckhcyk--jfscmphrmc.gw
.cwxrmmckhc .kepncYckrddcshfcykci.mc.curxlrekchxvs,c.gwcY’ ckphxhfvpds
.mp. rwchlc smrdlcghincKhhcd.kr,c.mcfmf.dn”

“Hp,cwr.x!cShfc.di.smcirxrcmfepc.ciydw,cy urkfhfmcepydw,crorgc.k
mephhdncYcxr r jrxcphichlkrgcYcfmrwckhcmur.zckhcshfc.jhfkcykn”

“Irdd,ciprgcykci.mc.ddchorxc.gwcYci.mcm.grc.v.yg,cYclhfgwcYcp.wchgdsc.
lricuhfgwmcdrlk,cghkcgr.xdscrghfvpckhcmrrc rckpxhfvpckyddckprcxrdyrl
rqurwykyhgc.xxyorwncMhcYckphfvpkcykchorxc.gwcwreywrwckhcygormkc s
dykkdrc.ddn”

“Ycphurcshfcephmrcmh rkpygvcm.lr?”

“Ykchfvpkckhcp.orcjrrgncKprc_MuhxkygvcRquxrmm_ce.ddrwcykc‘Kh-w.s’m
M.lrkscJrkn’cYkci.mcJhfgwygvcIyddyrclhxckprckih-kpyxkscx.erc.kcM.gwhig
d.mkcIrwgrmw.sn”

“Hp,cwr.x!”

“Kp.k’mcip.kcYcm.ywciprgcuhhxchdwcIyddyrce. rcygcmyqkpncJfkcyk’m
ghcvhhwcihxxsygv,cymcyk?cIp.kcykc r.gmcymckp.kcYcmy udsc fmkclygw
mh rkpygvckhcwhckp.kciyddce.xxsc rckpxhfvpckyddcYcvrkc scgrqk
bf.xkrx’mc.ddhi.gernc.gwckp.kcihg’kcjrckyddcMrukr jrxncncncncJfkcwhg’k
drk’mck.dzcjfmygrmmcprxrncY’ddceh rcxhfgwckhcshfxchllyer,cEd.xzyr,
kh- hxxhincncncncIprxr’mcEsgkpy.?cWywg’kcshfcjxygvcprx?”

“Srm,cYckphfvpkcshfcirxrcvhygvckhcuyezcEsgkpy.cfuchgcshfxci.s,
Ed.xzyr,”cm.ywcUpsddymn

YlcRor’mcyglhx .kyhgc.mckhcprxclyg.gey.dc.ll.yxmcp.wce.fmrwc ymm
Ed.xzmhgckhc hfxg,ckprc rgkyhgchlcEsgkpy.cudfgvrwcprxcygkhckprcorxs
wrukpmchlcihrncPrxc hfkpcbfyorxrwc.gwc.ckr.xcmkhdrcwhigcprxceprrzncRor
.gwcUpsddymcrqep.gvrwcjriydwrxrwcvd.germn

“Ycm.s,”cm.ywcRorc.lkrxc.c h rgk’mcu.fmrc.gwc.cmydrgercjxhzrgchgdscjs
.cm hkprxrwcmhjclxh ckpryxcd.krcygmkxfekxrmm,c“irc.xrg’kcjrygvcorxs
eprrxlfd,c.xrcir,cehgmywrxygvckp.kckpymcymcmfuuhmrwckhcjrc.cthshfm
xrfgyhg?cYmc.gskpygvcixhgvciykpcEsgkpy.?”

Mhcuhyvg.gkci.mc ymmcEd.xzmhg’mc.gvfympckp.kcUpsddym,cygc.cldfkkrxchl
.d.x ,cxhmrc.gwcdrlkckprcxhh cmiylkdscygcmr.xepchlckprchgdscxr rwsckp.k
mfvvrmkrwcykmrdlckhcprx--prxcm rddygv-m.dkmn

“Uhhxcwr.xcEsgkpy.!”c h.grwc ymmcEd.xzmhgn

“Ips,cip.k’mckprc .kkrxciykpcprx?”c.mzrwcRorncMprci.mcghkce.ddhfmckh
 ymmcEd.xzmhg’mcvxyrl,cjfkcmprcehfdwcghkcprduckprckygyrmkchlcm ydrmncYg
.cld.mpcmprcp.wcjrrgckx.gmuhxkrwckhcprxcmephhd-w.sm,ciprgckprchkprx’m
p.jykchlcrqkx.ekygvckprcfk hmkckx.vrwschfkchlckprcmdy  rmkc .krxy.dcp.w
jrrgc.cmhfxerchlcrorx-lxrmpc. fmr rgkckhcprxncGhkclhxc.gcygmk.gkcwyw
mprcrqurekckhcpr.xc.gscihxmrcgrimchlcprxchdwclxyrgwckp.gckp.kcmprci.m
ygcjrwciykpc.cehdwchxcp.wckiymkrwcprxc.gzdrn

“Mpr’mc .xxyrw,cshfczghi,”cm.ywc ymmcEd.xzmhgn

“Irdd,cYcmrrcghcp.x cygckp.k,cEd.xzyrncYlc.clric hxrcM.lrkscJrkmcvh
ixhgv,cYcmp.ddcuxhj.jdscp.orckhcxfmpchfkc.gwc .xxscmh rhgrc smrdlncMh r
gyer,cxyep,cygwfdvrgkc .gciphciyddcmuhydc rn”

“Hp,cRor,c scwr.x,”cudr.wrwc ymmcEd.xzmhg,cjdr.kygvciykpc.d.x ,c“wh
udr.mrcjrce.xrlfdciph cshfc .xxsncYcgrorxcpr.xchlchgrchlc scvyxdm
 .xxsygvciykphfkclrrdygvckp.kckprcihxmkc .scp.uurgc.gwckp.k,c.dd
fgzghiygv,cmprc .scjrcmkruuygvchorxc.cvxy cuxreyuyer!”

“Shfcwhg’kc_krdd_ckpr ckp.k,cwhcshf?cJre.fmrcYcmphfdwckpygzcykcihfdw
x.kprxce.mkc.cw. urxchgckprcirwwygvclrmkyoykyrmncP.mcEsgkpy.cvhgr
mkruuygvchorxcvxy cuxreyuyerm?cYci.mctfmkcm.sygvckhcUpsddymckp.kcY
rgoyrwcprx,c .xxsygvc.cerdrjxykscdyzrcX.dmkhgc eKhwwn”

 ymmcEd.xzmhgcvfdurwn

“Kprc .gc fmkcjrc.c_lyrgw_!”cmprcm.ywcjxhzrgdsnc“Ycp.orctfmkcdrlk
uhhxcwr.xcEsgkpy.cygcldhhwmchlckr.xmc.kckprcE.whv.gcPhkrd--mprcp.mc.
orxscgyercbfyrkcxhh chgckprclhfxkpcldhhx,ckphfvpckprce.xurkcwhrmcghk
p.x hgymrciykpckprci.dd-u.urxncncncncMprci.mcjxhzrg-pr.xkrw,cuhhx
epydwncYcwywcip.kcYcehfdwckhcehgmhdrcprx,cjfkcykci.mcfmrdrmmncMpr
.di.smci.mcmhcpyvpdscmkxfgvncYc fmkcjrcvrkkygvcj.ezckhcprxcorxscmhhgn
Ychgdsce. rchgcprxrcjre.fmrcYcwywcghkci.gkckhcwym.uuhygkcshfckihcwr.x
vyxdmcncncn”

“Ips?”cm.ywcRorciykpcbfyrkcygkrgmyksncMprczgriclxh crqurxyrgerckp.k
 ymmcEd.xzmhg,cfgdrmmclyx dsceprezrw,cihfdwcuyxhfrkkrcxhfgwc.gwcxhfgw
kprcuhygkclhxc ygfkrmciykphfkcrorxckhfepygvcykn

“Ips?”crephrwc ymmcEd.xzmhg,cjdygzygvc.mcylckprcihxwci.mcmh rkpygv
mhdywckp.kcp.wcmkxfezcprxcfgrqurekrwdsn

“Ipsci.mcEsgkpy.cygcldhhwmchlckr.xm?”

“JfkcY’ ckrddygvcshf,c scwr.xncKp.kc .gcp.mcdrlkcprx!”

“Drlkcprx!”

“Kprscp.wc.cbf.xxrd,c.gwcprci.dzrwcmkx.yvpkchfkchlckprcphkrdncKp.k
i.mckprcw.scjrlhxrcsrmkrxw.s,c.gwcprcp.mcghkcjrrgcj.ezcmygerncKpym
.lkrxghhgckprcefxkrmkcghkrce. rclxh cpy ckhcm.sckp.kcprcgrorxcygkrgwrw
khcxrkfxgncPrcp.wcmrexrkdsc.gwcygc.c hmkcfgwrxp.gwci.sc.xx.gvrwclhxcpym
dfvv.vrckhcjrcxr horwclxh ckprcphkrdckhc.cWymkxyekc rmmrgvrxchllyer,
.gwclxh ckprxrcprcp.mck.zrgcykcghchgrczghimciprxrncPrcp.mceh udrkrds
wym.uur.xrwn”

Rorcmk.xrwncMprcp.wcghkcjrrgcuxru.xrwclhxcgrimchlckpymc h rgkhfmchxwrxn

“Jfkcip.kcwywckprscbf.xxrdc.jhfk?”

“Esgkpy.,cuhhxcepydw,ci.mckhhchorxixhfvpkckhckrddc r!”

Rorcedrgeprwcprxckrrkpn

“Kprcjr.mk!cncncncUhhxchdwcEsgkpy.ncncncncMp.ddcYceh rcxhfgwciykpcshf?”

“Gh,c scwr.x,cjrkkrxcdrkc rcdhhzc.lkrxcprxc.dhgrncYciyddckrddcprxckh
ixykrc.gwcdrkcshfczghiciprgcmprce.gcmrrcshfncYc fmkcjrcvhygv,cUpsddym
wr.x,”cmprcm.yw,c.mcprxcphmkrmmcxr-rgkrxrw,cjr.xygvc.cm .ddcjhkkdrn

“Jfkcshf’orchgdsctfmkceh r!”cm.ywcUpsddym,cmfxuxymrwn

“UhhxchdwcEsgkpy.’mcpfmj.gwcp.mcdrlkcprx,”crqud.ygrwcRorcjxyrldsnc“.gw
Ed.xzyr’mcvhygvcj.ezckhcdhhzc.lkrxcprxncMpr’mcygc.cuxrkkscj.wci.s,cyk
mrr mn”

“Hp,cgh!”

“Srm,cygwrrwnc.gwcYcxr.ddsc fmkcjrcvhygvc.kchger,”cm.ywc ymmcEd.xzmhgn

Rorci.ykrwcygckprcwx.iygv-xhh ckyddckprclxhgkcwhhxcj.gvrwc.gwcUpsddym
e. rcj.ezckhcprxncUpsddymci.mc hxrciymklfdckp.gcrorxncMprcp.wcjrrg
dhhzygvclhxi.xwckhckpymckr.-u.xks,c.gwcykcp.wcghkcjrrgckprcp.uus
hee.myhgcmprcp.wc.gkyeyu.krwncKprckihcvyxdmcm.kcygcmydrgerclhxc.c h rgkn

“Ip.kcjxfkrmcmh rc rgc.xr!”cm.ywcRorc.kcdrgvkpn

“ yzr,”cm.ywcUpsddymcwxr. yds,c“ymc.gc.gvrdn”

Rorcirdeh rwckprcfgmuhzrgcygoyk.kyhgckhcxrkfxgckhc.c hxrc.vxrr.jdr
khuyencMprclrdkcorxscwrrudsclhxckprcmkxyezrgcEsgkpy.,cjfkcmprcp.krw
.y drmmck.dz,c.gwcghkpygvcehfdwcp.orcjrrgc hxrc.y drmmckp.gclhxcprx
.gwcUpsddymckhcmykckprxrcrqep.gvygvcd. rgk.kyhgmcehgerxgygvc.ckx.vrws
hlcipyepcgrykprxczgric hxrckp.gckprcj.xrchfkdygrmncUpsddymcp.wcprx
kx.vrws,ckhh,c.gwcykci.mchgrciprxrcRorcm.ickprcuhmmyjydykschlcwhygv
mh rkpygvcux.ekye.dc.gwcprdulfdncMprci.mc.cvyxdchlc.ekyhg,c.gwci.mcvd.w
khcjrc.jdrckhc.kk.ezc.cdyoygvcymmfrn

“Srm,cdrk’mcvhchgck.dzygvc.jhfkcshfc.gwc yzr,”cmprcm.ywnc“.kcuxrmrgkcY
e.g’kcfgwrxmk.gwckprcuhmykyhgc.kc.ddncIprgcEd.xzyrce. rcyg,cshfcirxr
tfmkckrddygvc rc.jhfkcshfxcmkrul.kprxc.gwcipscprcihfdwg’kcprducshfnc.gw
Yckphfvpkcshfc .wrchfkc.corxscuhhxce.mrclhxcpy ncKrddc rcmh rc hxrn
Y’orclhxvhkkrgcpymcg. r,cjsckprci.sn”

“Zrrjdrn”

“Hp?cIrdd,cYckpygzcshfchfvpkckhcixykrc.gwckrddcpy cphicp.xw-fucshfc.xrn
Prc .scjrcfgwrxckprcy uxrmmyhgckp.kcshfc.xrcmkyddcdyoygvcygcdfqfxsc.gw
whg’kcgrrwc.gscprdunc.lkrxc.dd,cprce.g’kczghicfgdrmmcshfckrddcpy nc.gw
Ycmphfdwc.mzcpy cmkx.yvpkchfkckhceh rckhckprcxrmefrncYkcymg’kc.mcylcyk
i.mcshfxc yzr’mcl.fdkckp.kcshf’xrcjxhzrncPrc .xxyrwcshfchgckprcmkxrgvkp
hlc.corxscvhhwcuhmykyhgcipyepcdhhzrwcdyzrc.curx .grges,c.gwcdhmkcyk
kpxhfvpcghcl.fdkchlcpymchigncYcmphfdwcixykrckhcpy ,cUpsdncUykepcyk
mkxhgvn”

“Ycp.orncYcixhkrckh-w.snc yzr’mctfmkcjrrgchllrxrwc.cihgwrxlfd
huuhxkfgyksnc.cmhxkchlcl.x cud.ercygcDygehdgmpyxrncShfczghincEhimc.gw
kpygvmncTfmkcip.kcprcihfdwcdyzrc.gwctfmkcip.kcprcihfdwcwhc.ilfddscirddn
.gwcirchgdscgrrwckpxrrckphfm.gwcuhfgwmckhcvrkcykncncncncJfkcY’ c.lx.yw
ghkpygvciyddceh rchlcykn”

“Jre.fmrchlc.fgkcEhgmk.ger,cshfc r.g?”

“Srmn”

“Shfc fmkc_ .zr_cmh rkpygvceh rchlcykn”cRor’mcepygcirgkcfuncMprcdhhzrw
dyzrc.cVhwwrmmchlcWrkrx yg.kyhgnc“YlcYcirxrcshf,cY’wcp.fgkckpryx
whhxmkruckyddckprscp.wckhcvyorcshfckprc hgrsckhcvrkcxywchlcshfncKpr
ywr.chlc.gsjhwscwhygvckp.kc.jmfxwcwxyoygv-ygkh-kpr-mghicjfmygrmmcyg
kprmrcw.sm!cIpsc_mphfdwg’k_cshfc .xxsckprc .gcshfcirxrcygcdhorciykp?cYl
Ycirxrcshf,cY’wcvhc.gwcep.ygc smrdlckhckpryxcx.ydygvmc.gwcphidcdyzrc.
whvckyddckprscxfmprwchfkciykpceprbfr-jhhzmctfmkckhcvrkcmh rcur.erncWh
kprscdyorcygcDhgwhg?”

“Kprsc.xrcwhigcygcMpxhumpyxrc.kcuxrmrgkc.kc.cud.erce.ddrwcJd.gwygvm
E.mkdrn”

Rorcmk.xkrwn

“Jd.gwygvmcE.mkdr?cVhhwcvx.eyhfm!”

“.fgkcEhgmk.gercymcDhxwcR mihxkp’mcmymkrxn”

“Jfkckpymcymckprc hmkcrqkx.hxwyg.xsckpygvncY’ cvhygvckhcJd.gwygvm
 smrdlcygc.clricw.smn”

“Gh!”

“Kprs’orcrgv.vrwc rckhce.k.dhvfrckprce.mkdrcdyjx.xsn”

“Jfk,cRor,cirxrcshfchgdscthzygvciprgcshfc.mzrwcEd.xzyrckhclygwcshf
mh rkpygvckhcwh?cMprckhhzcshfcbfykrcmrxyhfmdsn”

“Gh,cYci.mg’kcthzygvncKprxr’mc.cwx.ij.ezckhc scvhygvckhcJd.gwygvmncY
mfuuhmrcshfczghickprcud.ercuxrkkscirdd?”

“Y’orchlkrgcmk.srwckprxrncYk’mcjr.fkylfdn”

“KprgcshfczghicDhxwcR mihxkp’mcmrehgwcmhg,cLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhw?”

“Hlcehfxmrn”

“Irdd,cpr’mckprcwx.ij.ezncPrci.gkmckhc .xxsc r,c.gwcYcerxk.ygdscwhg’k
i.gkckhc .xxscpy nc.gwcip.kcY’orcjrrgcihgwrxygvcymciprkprxc.cgyercr.ms
thjcdyzrckp.k,cipyepcihfdwckywrc rchorxcjr.fkylfddsckyddcMrukr jrx,cym
.kkx.ekyorcrghfvpckhc .zrcfuclhxckprcgfym.gerchlcp.oygvckhcjrc.di.sm
mbfrdepygvcuhhxcLxrwwyrncYchfvpkckhcp.orckphfvpkchlcykcxyvpkc.kckpr
jrvyggygv,chlcehfxmr,ciprgcprcixhkrc.gwckhdwc rckhc.uudsclhxckpr
uhmykyhg,cjfkcYci.mcmhcwrdyvpkrwc.kckprcywr.chlcxrvfd.xcihxzckp.kcyk
wywg’kcheefxckhc rncKprgcYcjrv.gckhcihgwrxncPr’mcmfepc.curxmrorxygv
shfgvc .gncPrcuxhuhmrmcr.xdsc.gwchlkrgn”

“Iprxrcwywcshfc rrkcLxrwwyr?”

“.kc.ckpr.kxrcu.xksnc.jhfkckihc hgkpmc.vhncPrci.mcdyoygvcygcDhgwhg
kprg,cjfkcprcmfwwrgdscwym.uur.xrwc.gwcYcp.wc.cpr.xk-jxhzrgcdrkkrx
lxh cpy ,cm.sygvckp.kcprcp.wcjrrgcxfggygvcfucwrjkmc.gwckpygvmc.gwcpym
l.kprxcp.wcmg.keprwcpy c.i.sckhcdyorc.kcJd.gwygvm,cipyepc.uu.xrgkdscym
Lxrwwyr’mcywr.chlckprcYglrxghncKprcihxdwcmrr mclfddchlcp.xw-pr.xkrw
xrd.kyormn”

“Hp,cDhxwcR mihxkpcymg’kcxr.ddscp.xw-pr.xkrwncShfciyddcdhorcpy ncPr’m
mhcwxr. sc.gwc.jmrgk- ygwrwncPrcuhkkrxmc.jhfkckprcv.xwrgc.ddckprcky rn
Ycwhg’kckpygzcshf’ddcdyzrc.fgkcEhgmk.gerc fepncJfkcYcmfuuhmrcshfcihg’k
mrrc.cvxr.kcwr.dchlcprxn”

“Iph c_mp.dd_cYcmrrc fepchl--rqerukcLxrwwyr,chlcehfxmr?”

“ xncJ.qkrx,cDhxwcR mihxkp’mcmrexrk.xs,cYcrqurekncYcwhg’kcdyzrcpy c.k
.ddncPr’mc.cmhxkchlcmurek.edrwce.or- .gn”

“Prcwhrmg’kcmhfgwc.kkx.ekyorncJfkcshfcm.sckprcud.ercymcgyer?”

“Yk’mcvhxvrhfmncYcmphfdwcvh,cylcYcirxrcshf,cRorn”

“Irdd,cYcp.wcygkrgwrwcghkckhncJfkcghicshf’orckhdwc rc.jhfkc xncZrrjdr
.gwc.fgkcEhgmk.ger,cY’orcep.gvrwc sc ygwncY’ddcp.orckhcdhhzcygc.k
Ed.xzyr’mchllyerckh- hxxhic.gwckrddcprxcY’ clyqrwcfuc.gwcmp.g’kcgrrw
prxcprduncY’ cvhygvckhck.zrcshfxcm.wce.mrcygcp.gw,cw.xdygvncYcmp.ddcvh
khcJd.gwygvm,c.gwcYciyddcwhvcshfxcmkrul.kprx’mclhhkmkrumncncncncIrdd,cY
 fmkcjrcvhygvncEh rc.gwcmrrc rckhckprclxhgkcwhhx,chxcY’ddcjrcdhmygvc s
i.scygckprc ydrmchlcmk.krdscehxxywhxmncncncncYcmfuuhmrcYc .sg’kcm .mp
kp.kcepyg.cwhvcjrlhxrcYcvh?cHp,cirdd,cYctfmkckphfvpkcY’wc.mzn”

Hfkcygckprcp.ddckprcdykkdrc .yw-hl-.dd-ihxzcjhjjrwcfuc.gwcygkrxerukrw
kpr n

“Yclhxvhkckhckrddcshf,c f ,c.cvrgkdr .gce.ddrwncYckhdwcpy cshfci.mchfkn”

“Bfykrcxyvpk,cT.grn”

“M.ywcpymcg. rci.mcM ykp,c’ n”

Upsddymcv.orc.cexschlcwym .sn

“Hp,cgh!cIp.kc.cmp. r!cYcu.xkyefd.xdsci.gkrwcshfckhc rrkcpy ,cRorncY
iympcY’wczghign”

“M ykp?”cm.ywcRornc“Kprcg. rcmrr mcl. ydy.xncIpscirxrcshfcmhc.gqyhfm
lhxc rckhc rrkcpy ?”

“Pr’mc yzr’mcjrmkclxyrgwnc yzrcihxmpyumcpy ncPr’mckprcmhgchlckprc xn
M ykpcYci.mckrddygvcshfc.jhfk--kprchgrc yzrci.mc.kcmephhdc.gwcE. jxywvr
iykpncPr’mc.curxlrekcw.xdygv,cRor,c.gwcshfcihfdwcdhorcpy ncPr’mctfmk
shfxcmhxkncYcwhciympcircp.wczghignc.gwcghicshf’xrcvhygvckhcJd.gwygvm
lhxcvhhwgrmmczghimcphicdhgv,c.gwcshfcihg’kcjrc.jdrckhcmrrcpy n”

“Ip.kc.cuyks,”cm.ywcRor,cuhdykrdscfgygkrxrmkrwn

“Y’ cmhcmhxxsclhxcpy n”

“Ips?”

“Pr’mcygckprclympcjfmygrmmn”

“Fvp!”

“Irdd,cprcp.krmcyk,cuhhxcwr.xncJfkcprci.mcdrlkcmkx.gwrwcdyzrc.ddckpr
xrmkchlcfmc.lkrxckprcex.mp,c.gwcprci.mcufkcygkhckprcjfmygrmmcjsc.g
fgedrciphcymc.cmhxkchlclympc .vg.krn”

“Irdd,cipscwhrmcprcmk.sckprxr,cylcprcwymdyzrmcykcmhc fep?”cm.ywcRor
iykpcygwyvg.kyhgncKprcprdudrmmcksurchlc .gci.mcprxcurkc.orxmyhgnc“Y
p.krc.c .gciph’mcvhkcghcrgkrxuxymrn”

“Ycwhg’kckpygzcshfcehfdwce.ddcpy cfgrgkrxuxymygvncPrcgrorxcmkxfezc r
dyzrckp.kncncncncShfcmy udsc fmkc rrkcpy ciprgcshfceh rcj.ezckhcDhgwhgn”

“.ddcxyvpk,”cm.ywcRorcygwyllrxrgkdsnc“Tfmkc.mcshfcdyzrncYc yvpkcufk
jfmygrmmcygcpymci.sncY’ corxsclhgwchlclympn”




EP.UKRXcYYY

RORcJHXXHIMc.GcF JXRDD.


Ip.kcmkxyzrmckprcoymykhxckhcDhgwhgc hmkclhxeyjds,c.mcprcrgkrxmckpr
pr.xkchlckp.kceyks’mcl.mpyhg.jdrcmphuuygvcwymkxyek,cymckprc.d hmk
rgkyxrc.jmrgerchlchmkrgk.kyhgcygckprcmphu-iygwhim,ckprcmkfwyrw
.ohyw.gerchlcv.xympcwymud.snc.jhfkckprclxhgkchlckprcuxr ymrmchlc rmmxmn
Kphxurc&cJxymehr,clhxcygmk.ger,ciphcmrddceh.dcygcWhorxcMkxrrk,ckprxr
ymc.mc.cxfdrcghkpygvcip.krorxckhc.kkx.ekcl.meyg.krwc.kkrgkyhgncShf
 yvpkcvyorckprcud.erc.cvd.gerc.mcshfcu.mmrw,cjfkcshfcihfdwcerxk.ygds
ghkcu.fmrc.gwcmk.gwcmk.xygvc.kcykc.mc.kckprcMymkygrcEp.urdchxckpr
K.tc .p.dncSrkc.kckrg-kpyxkschgckprc hxgygvc.lkrxcRorcP.ddyw.scp.w
k.zrgckr.ciykpcprxclxyrgwcUpsddymcT.ezmhgcygcIrmkcZrgmygvkhg,cUm ykp,
dhfgvygvcvx.erlfddscygckprcm hzygv-xhh ciygwhichlckprcWxhgrmcEdfj,
ipyepcymcy  rwy.krdschuuhmykrckprcKphxurc&cJxymehrcrmk.jdymp rgk,cp.w
jrrgcv.aygvc.kcykclyqrwdsclhxc.clfddclyorc ygfkrmncHgrcihfdwcp.orcm.yw
kp.kckprcmurek.edrcrgkpx.ddrwcpy ncPrcmrr rwcfg.jdrckhck.zrcpymcrsrm
hllcykn

Kprxrcymc.di.smc.cxr.mhgclhxckprc hmkc.uu.xrgkdscygrqudye.jdr
p.uurgygvmncYkcymckprcux.ekyerchlcKphxurc(hxcJxymehr)cwfxygvckprc hgkpm
hlcmf  rxckhcxfgchfkc.gc.igygvchorxckprcmphunc.cbfyrk,cvrgkrrdc.igygv,
hlcehfxmr,cghkpygvckhchllrgwckprcrsr--jfkc.gc.igygvcipyepchllrxmc.
bfykrc.wrbf.krcuxhkrekyhgc.v.ygmkckphmrcmfwwrgcmphirxmcipyepc.xrcmfep
.cwrdyvpklfddscuybf.gkclr.kfxrchlckprcRgvdympcmf  rx:chgrchlcipyep
p.wctfmkcjrvfgckhcmuxygzdrckprcIrmkcRgwchlcDhgwhgciykpc.cvhhwcwr.dchl
pr.xkygrmmc.gwcoyvhfxnc.gwcfgwrxckpymc.igygv,currxygvcud.ygkyordschfk
.kckprcx.yg,cRorcP.ddyw.s,chgcprxci.sckhckprc.w.cEd.xzmhgcR udhs rgk
Jfxr.f,cp.wck.zrgcxrlfvrncYkci.mcmprciphcp.wcmhcrgep.ygrwcUm ykp’m
ygkrxrmkncYkci.mcpymcehgmywrxrwchuygyhgckp.kcmprcy uxhorwckprcKphxurc&
Jxymehrclxhgk.vrcjsc.jhfkcgygrks-lyorcurxcergkn

Udr.mrwc.gwcvx.kylyrwc.mcUm ykpci.mckhcp.orcmh rkpygvcgyerckhcdhhzc.k
hfkchlckprcm hzygv-xhh ciygwhi,cprci.mc.dmhcmh rip.kcufaadrwncKpymcvyxd
mrr rwckhcpy ckhcx.wy.krc.gc.k hmuprxrchlcir.dkpncMk.xkygvc.kcl.xkprmk
mhfkpc.gwcuxherrwygvcghxkpi.xw,cmprcjrv.gcygc.cvdr. chlcu.krgk-dr.kprx
mphrmncL.igcmkhezygvm,chjoyhfmdscrqurgmyor,cdrwcfuckhc.cjd.ezcexêur
lxheznc.gwckprg,ctfmkc.mckprcrsrci.mcjrvyggygvckhclrrdckp.kckprxr
ehfdwcjrcghkpygvc hxr,cykci.mcmkfggrwcjsc.cmfuxr rcp.kchlcmhlk,cwfdd
m.kygciykpc.cjd.ezcjyxwchlcU.x.wymrclr.kprxcl.ddygvcwhigchorxckprcdrlk
mphfdwrxncRorgckhckprc .mefdygrcrsr,cipyepcymcghkhxyhfmdsckhcmrrzcyg
kprmrc .kkrxm,c.cip.drchlc.cp.knc.gwcsrkckpymcmf ukfhfmdscfuphdmkrxrw
shfgvcih .gcp.wcjrrgc .xhhgrwcjsc.cmphirxchlcx.ygcjrgr.kpckprc.igygvchl
 rmmxmncKphxurc&cJxymehrncIps,cUm ykpc.mzrwcpy mrdl,ci.mckpym?cRorg,
prc.xvfrw,cylcEp.xdrmckprcep.fllrfxcp.wcjrrgcvyorgckprcw.schllchxci.m
wxyoygvcprxcl.kprxckprc yddyhg.yxrckhckprcEyksckhc.kkrgwckhcpymco.mk
ygkrxrmkm,cmprcehfdwcmfxrdsc.llhxwc.ce.j-l.xr?cIr,ciphc.xrcl. ydy.x
iykpckprcmk.krchlcRor’mclyg.germ,ce.gcfgwrxmk.gwcprxcyg.jydyksckhck.zr
e.jm,cjfkcUm ykpci.mclx.gzdscurxudrqrwn

Jrygv,cphirorx,cjhkpcxr.ws-iykkrwc.gwcepyo.dxhfm,cprcurxeryorwckp.k
kpymci.mcghcky rclhxcywdrcmurefd.kyhgncPymcghkckhcxr.mhgcips;cpym
hjoyhfmcwfksci.mckhck.zrcmkrumckhc.mmymkcJr.fkscygcwymkxrmmncPr
drlkckprciygwhichlckprcm hzygv-xhh ,c.gw,cp.oygvc .wrcpymci.sciykpc.
m hhkpcwyvgyksckhckprcedfj’mcedh.z-xhh ,cuxherrwrwckhcmfj ykc.cxhichl
f jxrdd.mckhc.cedhmrcygmurekyhgncPrci.mcghkcr.msckhcm.kymlsncKihcipyep
prcirgkcmhcl.xc.mckhcufddchfkchlckprcx.ezcprcxrkfxgrwciykpc.cmp.zrchl
kprcpr.wncBfykrcvhhwcf jxrdd.m,cjfkcghkclykclhxckpymcmurey.dcmrxoyern
.kcdrgvkp,cphirorx,cprclhfgwc.cjr.fks,c.gwc.cvrgkdrcm ydrcldyezrxrw
.exhmmcpymcmhdr gcl.erncPrcufkcfucpymc hghedrc.gwcv.arwcmr.xepygvdsc.k
kpymcf jxrdd.ncYkcmrr rwckhc.gmirxcrorxsckrmkncPrci.mcirddcudr.mrwciykp
ykn

“Iphmr,”cprcygbfyxrwchlckprc.kkrgw.gk,c“ymckpym?”

“JrdhgvmckhckprcPhghfx.jdrc xncI.dwrxiyez,cmyxn”

“.p!”cm.ywcUm ykpckhdrx.gkdsn

Prckfezrwckprcf jxrdd.cfgwrxcpymc.x c.gwcirgkchfkn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

 r.gipydrcRorcP.ddyw.s,cdyvpkrgygvcfuckprcmh jxrc.fmkrxykschlc rmmxmn
Kphxurc&cJxymehr’mcmphu-lxhgk,cehgkygfrwckhckpygzcp.xwckphfvpkmchlckpr
Rgvdympcedy .krc.gwckhcygmurekckprcmzscygckprcphurchlcwrkrekygvc.cmuhk
hlcjdfrncMprci.mcrgv.vrwcygckpymceprrxdrmmcheefu.kyhgciprgc.kcprxcmywr
.cohyercmuhzrn

“Rqefmrc r!”

.cp.kdrmmcshfgvc .gci.mcmk.gwygvcjrmywrcprx,cphdwygvc.gcf jxrdd.ncPr
i.mc.cmkxyzygv-dhhzygvcshfgvc .g,corxsck.dd,corxsckpyg,c.gwcorxscirdd
wxrmmrwncYgcpymcxyvpkcrsrckprxrci.mc.c hghedr,c.gwckpxhfvpckpymcpr
dhhzrwcwhigc.kcprxciykpc.cvx.orclxyrgwdygrmmncPrcm.ywcghkpygvclfxkprx,
jfk,ck.zygvcprxclygvrxm,ced.murwckpr cxhfgwckprcp.gwdrchlckprcf jxrdd.,
ipyepcprcp.wchjdyvygvdschurgrw,c.gwckprgciykpc.cehfxkrhfmcjhicuxherrwrw
khcw.mpciykpcdhgvcmkxywrmc.exhmmckprcxh.w,cwym.uur.xygvckpxhfvpckpr
whhxi.schlc.cvdhh scjfydwygvcipyep,clxh ckprcgf jrxchlc rgciphcp.w
vhgrcygc.gwchfkcwfxygvcprxcoyvyd,cmprcp.wcmrkcwhigc.mc.cedfjchlcmh r
mhxkn

.cvhhwc .gscmfxuxymygvckpygvmcp.wcp.uurgrwckhcRorcmygerclyxmkcmpr
p.wceh rckhcdyorcygcDhgwhg,cjfkcghkpygvcbfykrcmhcmfxuxymygvc.mckpymn
Lhxcmrorx.dc ygfkrmcmprcmkhhwciprxrcmprci.mciykphfkc hoygv,cmk.xygv
xhfgw-rsrwc.kckprcjfydwygvchuuhmykrncKprcruymhwrci.m,cphirorx,
.uu.xrgkdscrgwrwncKprcshfgvc .gcwywcghkcxr.uur.xncPrcwywcghkcrorgcmphi
py mrdlc.kckprciygwhincKprcedfjcp.wcmi.ddhirwcpy cfunc.gwcrorgkf.dds
Ror,cwreywygvckp.kckpymci.mcghkckprcmhxkchlcw.schgcipyepckhcxrlfmr
f jxrdd.mcrorgcylckprscwxhuurwcygrqudye.jdsclxh cpr.org,cmkruurwchfk
lxh cfgwrxckprc.igygv,cd.fvpygvcprdudrmmds,c.gwcmk.xkrwckhcxrmf rcprx
ygkrxxfukrwcthfxgrsckhc ymmcEd.xzmhg’mn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Kprchllyermchlckprc.w.cEd.xzmhgcYgkrxg.kyhg.dcR udhs rgkcJfxr.f
(“Uxh ukykfwr--Ehfxkrms--Ygkrddyvrger”)c.xrc.kckprckhuchlcMp.lkrmjfxs
.orgfr,c.cdykkdrci.scu.mkckprcU.d.ercKpr.kxrncRor,cedhmygvckpr
f jxrdd.,cipyepcp.wcuxrorgkrwcrorgc.cmuhkchlcx.ygcl.ddygvchgcprxcp.k,
edy jrwckprcmphxkcmk.yxcdr.wygvckhckprcwhhxc.gwck.uurwchgckprciygwhi
 .xzrwc“Rgbfyxyrmn”

“E.gcYcmrrc ymmcEd.xzmhg?”

“Ip.kcg. r,cudr.mr?”cxrmuhgwrwcRgbfyxyrmcuxh ukdsc.gwciykpcygkrddyvrgk
ehfxkrmsn

“ ymmcP.ddyw.sn”

Jxyrlcygkrxdfwr,cygohdoygvcjfmygrmmciykpcmur.zygv-kfjrn

“Iyddcshfcvhcygkhckprcuxyo.krchllyer,cudr.mr,”cm.ywcRgbfyxyrmc.c h rgk
d.krx,cygc.cohyercipyepcghic.wwrwcxrmurekckhckprchkprxc.worxkymrw
bf.dykyrm,clhxcmprcp.wcp.wcky rckhchjmrxorc.gwcwyvrmkckprcp.kn

Rorcu.mmrwcygckpxhfvpckprcvrgrx.dci.ykygv-xhh ciykpcykm
 .v.aygr-ehorxrwck.jdr,c.gwck.uurwc.kckprcwhhxcjrshgwc .xzrwc“Uxyo.krn”

“Ror,cwr.x!”crqed.y rwc ymmcEd.xzmhgckprc h rgkcmprcp.wcrgkrxrw,c“Y
whg’kczghicphickhckrddcshf,cjfkcYcp.orcjrrgcdhhzygvckpxhfvpc scjhhzm
.gwcYcp.orcghkpygv,cmy udscghkpygvncKprxrcymcghkc.cmygvdrcud.erckp.k
shfcehfdwcuhmmyjdsck.zrncIp.kc_ym_ckhcjrcwhgr?”

“Kp.k’mc.ddcxyvpk,cEd.xzyrn”

“Jfkcncncn”

“Ycwywg’kceh rckhck.dzcjfmygrmmncYce. rckhc.mzc.lkrxcEsgkpy.ncPhicym
mpr?”

 ymmcEd.xzmhgcmyvprwn

“Uhhxcepydw,cmprcymcmkyddcygc.cwxr.wlfdcmk.kr,c.gwcghcihgwrxncGhcgrim
.kc.ddclxh cprxcpfmj.gwncPrcp.mcmy udscwrmrxkrwcprxn”

“Uhhxcw.xdygv!cE.g’kcYcmrrcprx?”

“Ghkc.kcuxrmrgkncYcp.orcurxmf.wrwcprxckhcvhcwhigckhcJxyvpkhgclhxc.
w.schxckihncYckpygzckprcmr.c.yxciyddcuyezcprxcfuncMhc fepcjrkkrxckp.g
 hhgygvc.jhfkcygc.cDhgwhgcphkrdncMprcymcdr.oygvchgckprcrdrorgch’edhez
kx.ygncYcv.orcprxcshfxcdhor,c.gwcmprci.mc hmkcvx.krlfdckp.kcshfcmphfdw
p.orcxr r jrxrwcshfxchdwclxyrgwmpyuc.gwcjrcmhxxsclhxcprxcygcprx
.lldyekyhgn”

“Irdd,cYce.gcixykrckhcprxncIprxrcymcmprcmk.sygv?”

“Ycwhg’kczghicprxcJxyvpkhgc.wwxrmm,cjfkcghcwhfjkckprcE.whv.gcPhkrd
ihfdwclhxi.xwcdrkkrxmncYckpygzcmprcihfdwcjrcvd.wckhcpr.xclxh cshf,
wr.xn”

Rorcdhhzrwcm.wdsc.kckprclx. rwckrmky hgy.dmcipyepcwrehx.krwckprci.ddn
Mprci.mcghkchlkrgc rd.gephds,cjfkcykci.mcmfepc.cjr.mkchlc.cw.sc.gwc.dd
prxclxyrgwmcmrr rwckhcjrcp.oygvcmfepc.cj.wcky rn

“Hp,cEd.xzyr,”cmprcm.yw,c“ip.kc.cdhkchlckxhfjdrckprxrcymcygckprcihxdw!”

“Srm,csrm!”cmyvprwc ymmcEd.xzmhg,c.cmurey.dymkchgckpymcmfjtrekn

“.ddckprcphxmrmcshfcj.ezclygympcmyqkpc.gwc.ddckprcvyxdmcshfcdyzrcjrmk
eh rcexhuurxmncUhhxcdykkdrcUpsddym!cirxrg’kcshfcmhxxsclhxcprx?”

“Jfkcprxcpfmj.gw,cmfxrds,cymc hmkcwrohkrw?”

“Srm,cjfkcmpr’mclxyvpklfddscp.xwcfu,c.gwcshfcxr r jrxcphichufdrgkcmpr
fmrwckhcjrc.kcmephhdncHlcehfxmr,cykc fmkcmhfgwclfggscpr.xygvc rcuyksygv
urhudrclhxcp.oygvcghc hgrsncJfkcmh rphichkprxcurhudr’mcp.xw-fugrmm
.di.smcmrr mcmhc fepcihxmrckp.gc ygrncRmurey.ddscuhhxchdwcUpsd’m,
jre.fmrcmprcxr.ddscymg’kclykckhcmk.gwcykncY’orcjrrgcfmrwckhcjrygv
.jmhdfkrdscjxhzrc.ddc scdylrncUhhxcwr.xcl.kprxc.di.smcmrr rwckhcjr
ixykygvc.gc.xkyedrc.v.ygmkcky r,ciykpcexrwykhxmcmex.kepygvcr.xgrmkds
.kckprcwhhxn”cRorcd.fvprw,cjfkcprxcrsrmcirxrc ymksnc“Prci.mc.cjxyez,
i.mg’kcpr?cYc r.g,cmrgwygvc rckhc.clyxmk-ed.mmcmephhdcdyzrcI.sd.gw
Phfmrciprgcprchlkrgcp.wg’kcrghfvpc hgrsckhcjfsckhj.eeh,cuhhxc.gvrdncY
rqurekcprci.mg’kc.di.smcfuckhcky rciykpclrrm,ci.mcpr?”

“Irdd,c scwr.x,chlcehfxmrcYci.mchgdsc.gc.mmymk.gkc ymkxrmmc.kcI.sd.gw
Phfmrc.gwcp.wcghkpygvckhcwhciykpckprclyg.gey.dcmywr,cjfkcYcwywcpr.x
mh rky rmncncn”

“Uhhxcw.xdygvcl.kprx!cWhcshfczghi,chgrchlc scr.xdyrmkcxrehddrekyhgm--Y
ehfdwg’kcp.orcjrrgc hxrckp.gckrg--ymchlc.cxygvc.kckprclxhgk-whhxcjrdd
.gwcl.kprxcwyoygvcdyzrc.cmr.dcfgwrxckprcmhl.c.gwcuhzygvcpymcpr.wchfk
.gwcy udhxygvc rcygc.cph.xmrcohyerckhcphdwckprclhxkncYcirgkckhckprcwhhx
.gwclhfgwc.gcygwyvg.gkc .gciykpc.cjdfrcu.urxncYcux.kkdrwcmhcuxrkkyds
.gwcygghergkdsckp.kcprcghkchgdscirgkc.i.scbfykrcehgkrgkrwdscjfk
.ekf.ddscu.kkrwc rchgckprcpr.wc.gwcv.orc rc.curggsnc.gwciprgckprcwhhx
p.wcmpfkcl.kprxcex.idrwchfkclxh cfgwrxckprcmhl.c.gwcv.orc rckihurger,
 .zygvckpxrrurgercygc.dd--.cvhhwc hxgygv’mcihxzncYcjhfvpkcl.kprxc.
wy. hgwcxygvciykpcykc.kc.cmphucwhigckprcmkxrrk,cYcxr r jrxnc.kcdr.mk
Yckphfvpkcykci.mc.cwy. hgwncKprsc .scp.orcmiygwdrwc r,clhxcYci.mcorxs
shfgvn”

“Shfcp.orcp.wc.cp.xwcdylr,cwr.xn”

“Srm,cjfkcp.mg’kcykcjrrgc.cd.xz!cY’orcdhorwcrorxsc ygfkrchlcykn
Jrmywrm,cshfce.g’kce.ddc rcxr.ddschgrchlckprcmfj rxvrwckrgkpncFgedr
Kph .mcdrlkc rc.cpfgwxrwc.gwclylkscuhfgwmc.csr.x,c.gwc rxeylfddscY’ 
ghkc.ddhirwckhckhfepckprce.uyk.dncYlchgdsckprxrcirxrcghcp.kmchxcm.lrks
jrkmcygckprcihxdw,cYcmphfdwcjrcm fvdschufdrgkncncncncJfkcYc fmkg’k
zrrucshfc.gscdhgvrx,cEd.xzyrcwr.xncYcrqurekckprci.ykygv-xhh cymclfdd
hlcwfzrmciphci.gkcehhzmc.gwcehhzmciphci.gkcwfzrm,c.ddclywvrkygvc.gw
ihgwrxygvcphic fepcdhgvrxcshf’xrcvhygvckhczrruckpr ncVhhw-jsr,cw.xdygvn”

.gw,cp.oygvczymmrwc ymmcEd.xzmhgclhgwdsc.gwcmkx.yvpkrgrwcprxcp.k,cipyep
kprchkprx’mc hkprxdscr jx.ercp.wcwym.xx.gvrw,cRorcdrlkckprcxhh n




EP.UKRXcYO

U.YGLFDcMERGRc.KcKPRcWXHGRMcEDFJ


 r.gipydr,c.kckprcWxhgrmcEdfj,c.cx.kprxcu.yglfdcmergrcp.wcjrrgck.zygv
ud.erncUm ykp,cxrv.ygygvckprcmprdkrxchlckprcjfydwygv,cp.wc .wrcpymci.s
khckprci.mp-xhh ,ciprxr,cp.oygvcmkfwyrwcpymclr.kfxrmciykpcygkrxrmk
lhxc.c h rgkcygckprc yxxhx,cprcm hhkprwcpymcp.yx,cipyepckprcx.ygcp.w
mh rip.kcwymhxwrxrw,c.gwcjxfmprwcpymcedhkprmciykpcrqkxr rce.xrncPrckprg
irgkckhckprcedh.z-xhh clhxcpymcp.kncKprc.kkrgw.gkcxrv.xwrwcpy c.mcpr
rgkrxrwciykpckprc.yxchlchgrciphmrc ygwcymcghkciphddsc.kcxrmkn

“ xncI.dwrxiyezci.mcygcprxrc.c h rgkc.vh,cmyx,”cm.ywckprc.kkrgw.gkn

“Srm?”cm.ywcUm ykp,c ydwdscygkrxrmkrwnc“.gcrgrxvrkye,cjfmkdygvcmhfd,
Eh x.wrcI.dwrxiyeznc.di.smcmh riprxrncGhicprxr,cghickprxrn”

“.mzygvc.jhfkcpymcf jxrdd.,cprci.m,”cufxmfrwckprc.kkrgw.gkciykpc.ckhfep
hlcehdwgrmmn

“Ygwrrw?c.mzygvc.jhfkcpymcf jxrdd.,crp?”

“ .wrc.cvxr.kclfmmc.jhfkcyk,cmyx,cprcwywn”

“.gwcxyvpkds,”cm.ywcUm ykpciykpc.uuxho.dnc“Kprcvhhwc .gcdhormcpym
f jxrdd.n”

“HlcehfxmrcYcp.wckhckrddcpy ckp.kcshfcp.wckhhzcyk,cmyxn”

“Ycihfdwcghkcp.orcykchkprxiymr,”c.mmrgkrwcUm ykpcpr.xkydsnc“Ycdyzr
kpymcmuyxykchlce.gwhfxncKprxrc fmkcjrcghcxrmrxo.kyhgm,cghcmfjkrxlfvrm
jrkirrgcshfc.gwcEh x.wrcI.dwrxiyezncDrkc.ddcjrchurgc.gwc.jhor-jh.xwn”

“Prcmrr rwcorxscufkchfk,cmyxncPrcirgkchllckhclygwcshfn”

“Yc. c.di.smcvd.wchlc.cep.kciykpcEh x.wrcI.dwrxiyez,”cm.ywcUm ykpn
“.di.smn”

Prcdrlkckprcedh.z-xhh c.gwc .wrclhxckprcp.dd,ciprxrcprcwrmyxrwckpr
uhxkrxckhcuxhefxrcpy c.ce.jncKpymcp.oygvcwx.igcfucygclxhgkchlckprcedfj,
prcwrmergwrwckprcmkrumc.gwci.mc.jhfkckhcrgkrxcyk,ciprgckprxrci.mc.
ph.xmrcexscygcpymcxr.x,c.gwckpxhfvpckprclxhgkcwhhxckprxrce. rcjhfgwygv
.cuygzdscygwyvg.gkcshfkp,ciphce.ddrwcdhfwds:

“Prxr!cPy!cM ykp!cW.mpcyk!”

Um ykpcedy jrwcygkhckprce.jc.gwcv.arwcjrgrohdrgkdschfkc.kckprcgri-eh rxn

“.p,cEh x.wrcI.dwrxiyez!”cprcm.ywnc“Ip.kcp.orcirchgchfxc ygw?”

“Iprxr’mc scf jxrdd.?”cwr .gwrwckprcuygzchgrnc“Kprcedh.z-xhh ci.ykrx
m.smcshfckhhzc scf jxrdd.ncYc r.g,c.cthzr’mc.cthzr,cjfkckp.kci.mc.
w.mprwcvhhwcf jxrdd.n”

“Ykci.m,cygwrrw,”cUm ykpc.vxrrwcehxwy.ddsnc“Ykc .scjrchlcygkrxrmkckh
shfckhczghickp.kcYcmrdrekrwcykc.mckprchgdscuhmmyjdrchgrclxh c. hgvc.
gf jrxchlceh urkykhxmncYclr.xckpymcedfjcymcjreh ygvcorxsc yqrw,cEh x.wr
I.dwrxiyezncShfciykpcshfxcufxrc ygwcihfdwcp.xwdscjrdyrorckprcxhkkrggrmm
hlcmh rchlckprcf jxrdd.mcYcygmurekrwcygckprcedh.z-xhh n”

“Iprxrcymcyk?”

“Kprcedh.z-xhh ?cShfckfxgckhckprcdrlkc.mcshfcvhcygc.kckprc .ygcrgkx.ger
.gwcncncn”

“ scf jxrdd.,cw.mpcyk!cIprxr’mc scf jxrdd.?”

“.p,ckprxr,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c.gwckprxrci.mc.ckhfepchlc .gdscxrvxrkcygcpym
ohyer,c“shfcp.orc rncYcv.orcykckhc.cshfgvcd.wscygckprcmkxrrkncIprxrcmpr
ymc.kckprcuxrmrgkc h rgkcYcehfdwcghkcm.sn”

Kprcuygzcshfkpckhkkrxrwcmdyvpkdsn

“Shfcv.orc scf jxrdd.ckhc.cvyxd?”

“.corxscdhhmrci.schlcwrmexyjygvcprxncShfcihfdwcghkcmur.zchlcprxcyg
kp.kcdyvpkcl.mpyhgcylcshfcp.wcmrrgcprxncEh x.wrcI.dwrxiyez,cmprci.m
ihgwrxlfd!cYc. c.cud.yg,cjdfgk,cxfvvrwc .g,c.jhorckprcmhlkrxcr hkyhgm
.mc.cvrgrx.dckpygv,cjfkcYclx.gzdscehglrmmckp.kcmprcmkyxxrwc.cephxwcyg
 rcipyepcymcghkchlkrgcmkyxxrwncMprckpxyddrwc scj.kkrxrwchdwcpr.xk,
Eh x.wrcI.dwrxiyezncKprxrcymcghchkprxcihxwncKpxyddrwcyk!”

“Jfk,cw.mpcyk!cncncn”

Um ykpcxr.eprwchfkc.cdhgvc.x c.gwcd.ywcpymcp.gwcu.krxg.ddschgckpr
hkprx’mcmphfdwrxn

“Jrcjx.or,cEh x.wrcI.dwrxiyez!”cprcm.ywnc“L.erckpymckpygvcdyzrc.c .g!
Yc. cmhxxsckhcp.orcjrrgckprc r.gmchlcwruxyoygvcshfchlc.gcrqerddrgk
f jxrdd.,cjfkc.mcshfciyddcxr.wydscfgwrxmk.gwcYcp.wcghc.dkrxg.kyorncYk
i.mcx.ygygvncMprci.mchorxckprxr,cexhfeprwcwrmu.yxygvdscjrgr.kpckpr
.igygvchlckp.kcmphuncMprci.gkrwckhcjrcrdmriprxr,cjfkckprc hymkfxr
d.scygci.ykckhcw. .vrcprxcp.kncIp.kcehfdwcYcwh?cIp.kcehfdwc.gsc .g
ihxkpschlckprcg. rcwhcjfkcvhcwhigckhckprcedh.z-xhh c.gwcuygepckpr
jrmkcf jxrdd.cygcmyvpkc.gwck.zrcykckhcprx?cShfxmci.mcr.mydsckprcjrmkn
Kprxrci.mc.jmhdfkrdscghceh u.xymhgncYcv.orcykckhcprx,c.gwcmprcp.m
vhgrchllciykpcyk,cp.uuschgerc hxrncKpymcrqud.g.kyhg,”cm.ywcUm ykp,
“iydd,cYc. cmfxr,cmrgmyjdscwy ygympcshfxcg.kfx.dcep.vxygncShfcp.or
dhmkcshfxcf jxrdd.,cEh x.wrcI.dwrxiyez,cjfkcygcip.kc.ce.fmr!cYgcip.k
.ce.fmr,cEh x.wrcI.dwrxiyez!cShfc.xrcghicrgkykdrwckhcx.gzciykpcMyx
UpydyucMywgrsc.gwcMyxcI.dkrxcX.dryvpncKprcd.kkrxcymcurxp.umckprcedhmrx
pymkhxye.dcu.x.ddrdncPrcmuxr.wcpymcedh.zckhczrruc.cbfrrgclxh cirkkygv
prxclrrkncShf--jscuxhqs--syrdwrwcfucshfxcf jxrdd.ckhcm.orc.cvyxd’m
p.kncUhmkrxyksciyddcjrcuxhfwchlcshf,cEh x.wrcI.dwrxiyezncYcmp.ddcjr
o.mkdscmfxuxymrwcylcshfcwhcghkcvhcwhigcygcdrvrgwc.gwcmhgvncEpydwxrgcyg
.vrmckhceh rciyddcedfmkrxc.jhfkckpryxcvx.gwl.kprx’mczgrrm,cm.sygv,
‘Krddcfmcphickprcvxr.kcI.dwrxiyezcdhmkcpymcf jxrdd.,cvx.gwu.u.!’c.gw
prciyddckrddckpr ,c.gwckprsciyddcxymrclxh ckprcxreyk.dcjrkkrx,cwrrurx,
jxh.wrxcepydwxrgncncncncJfkcghi,c.mcYcmrrckp.kckprcwxyorxcp.mcmk.xkrw
pymc rkrx,cYclr.xcYc fmkcehgedfwrckpymcdykkdrcep.k--ipyepcY,clhxchgr,
p.orcpr.xkydscrgthsrwncWxyorchg,”cprcm.yw,cdr.gygvchfkchlckprciygwhin
“Yci.gkckhcvhckhc.w.cEd.xzmhg’mcYgkrxg.kyhg.dcR udhs rgkcJfxr.fcyg
Mp.lkrmjfxsc.orgfrn”

Kprce.jc horwchllncKprcPhgncPfvhcI.dwrxiyez,c.lkrxchgrcu.mmyhg.kr
vd.gercygcykmci.zr,cxr.dymrwckp.kcprci.mcvrkkygvcirkc.gwcirgkcj.ezcygkh
kprcedfjn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

.xxyoygvc.kckprc.wwxrmmcg. rw,cUm ykpcu.ywcpymce.jc.gw,cp.oygvc hfgkrw
kprcmk.yxm,cwrdye.krdsczgfezdrwckprcvxhfgw-vd.mmciygwhichlcRgbfyxyrmn

“ scwr.xc ymmcEd.xzmhg,”cprcjrv.gcygc.gc.ll.jdrcohyer,ckprcygmk.gkckpr
iygwhicp.wcmphkcfu,c“ylcshfce.gcmu.xrc rc.clric h rgkmchlcshfxco.df.jdr
ky rcncncn”

“ ymmcEd.xzmhg’mcrgv.vrwn”

Um ykpcmexfkygymrwcprxcvx.ordsckpxhfvpcpymc hghedrn

“.xrg’kc_shf_c ymmcEd.xzmhg?”

Rgbfyxyrmcm.ywcmprci.mcghkn

“Kprg,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“kprxrcp.mcjrrgc.c ymfgwrxmk.gwygv,clhxcipyep,”cpr
.wwrwcehxwy.dds,c“Yc. ckhcjd. rncUrxp.umcYcehfdwcmrrcprxc.ghg?cShfciydd
lygwc rcygckprci.ykygv-xhh ciprgcxrbfyxrwn”

Prcirgkcygkhckprci.ykygv-xhh ,c.gw,cp.oygvcuyezrwcfuc.c .v.aygrclxh 
kprck.jdr,cmrkkdrwcwhigckhcxr.wc.cmkhxscygc_KprcVyxd’mcUrk_--kpr
T.gf.xscgf jrxchlckprcsr.xc1919,clhxcR udhs rgkc.vrgeyrm,cdyzr
wrgkymkm,cuxrlrxckpryxcdykrx.kfxrchlc.c .kfxrwcoygk.vrncPrci.mc.jmhxjrw
ygckpymciprgcRorce. rchfkchlckprcuxyo.krchllyern




EP.UKRXcO

UM YKPc.UUDYRMcLHXcR UDHS RGK


Um ykpcxhmrcehfxkrhfmdsc.mcmprcrgkrxrwn

“ scwr.xc ymmcEd.xzmhg,”cprcm.yw,c“ylcshfce.gcmu.xrc rc.c h rgkchlcshfx
o.df.jdrcky rcncncn”

“Vhhwcvx.eyhfm!”cm.ywcRornc“Phicrqkx.hxwyg.xs!”

“.cmygvfd.xcehygeywrger,”c.vxrrwcUm ykpn

“Shfcgrorxcv.orc rcky rckhckp.gzcshfclhxckprcf jxrdd.,”cm.ywcRor
xruxh.eplfddsnc“Shfc fmkcp.orckphfvpkc rc.ilfddscxfwrncJfkcshfckhhzc s
jxr.kpc.i.sn”

“ scwr.xc ymmcEd.xzmhg,cudr.mrcwhcghkcncncn”

“Ipscwhcshfczrruce.ddygvc rckp.k?”

“.xrg’kc_shf_c ymmcEd.xzmhgcrykprx?”

“HlcehfxmrcY’ cghkn”

“Kprg,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“Yc fmkcmk.xkc scbfrmkc.ddchorxc.v.ygncKprmr
ehgmk.gkceprezmc.xrckxsygvckhc.gc.xwrgkcmuyxykncUrxp.umcshfc.xrc.cshfgv
jxywrceh rckhcrgv.vrcprxclyxmkcehhz?”

“GhncY’ cghkc .xxyrwn”

“Vhhw!”

Rorclhfgwcpymcxrdyrorwckp.gzlfdgrmmc.cdykkdrcr j.xx.mmygvncYgckpr
 h rgk.xscu.fmrcipyepclhddhirwcpymcxr .xz,cRgbfyxyrmcrgkrxrwc.drxkdsn

“ ymmcEd.xzmhgciyddcmrrcshfcghi,cmyxn”

“Dr.orcfm,”cm.ywcUm ykpciykpc.ci.orchlcpymcp.gwnc“Ircihfdwcjrc.dhgrn”

Rgbfyxyrmcmk.xrw;ckprg,c.irwcjscpymc .ggrxc.gwcvrgrx.dc.uur.x.gerchl
 .vgylyerger,ciykpwxrin

“Ycmfuuhmrcxr.dds,”cm.ywcRor,ckhsygvciykpckprcf jxrdd.,c“Ychfvpkckh
vyorckpymcj.ezckhcshfn”cMprcvd.gerwc.kckprcwxyuuygvciygwhinc“Jfkcyk
_ym_cx.ygygvcx.kprxcp.xw,cymg’kcyk?”

“Dyzrckprcwyezrgm,”c.mmrgkrwcUm ykpn

“Kprgcihfdwcshfc ygwcorxsc fepcylcYczrukcykckyddckpymcrorgygv?”

“Udr.mrcwhn”

“Kp.gzmcrorxcmhc fepncYciyddcmrgwcykcj.ezckhcshfckh-gyvpkcylcshfciydd
vyorc rckprcg. rc.gwc.wwxrmmn”

Um ykpci.orwcpymcp.gwcwruxre.kygvdsn

“Gh,cghncYlcykcymchlc.gscfmrckhcshf,cYcphurckp.kcshfciyddcdhhzchgcykc.m
.cuxrmrgkn”

“.cuxrmrgk!”

“.cvylk,”crqud.ygrwcUm ykpn

“JfkcYcxr.ddsce.g’kcvhc.jhfkc.eerukygvcrqurgmyorcf jxrdd.mclxh curhudrn
Iprxrcmp.ddcYcmrgwcyk?”

“Ylcshfcygmymk,cshfc .scmrgwcykckhckprcPhgncPfvhcI.dwrxiyez,cWxhgrm
Edfj,cWhorxcMkxrrkncJfkcykcxr.ddscymg’kcgrermm.xsn”

“Ycihg’kclhxvrknc.gwckp.gzcshfcorxsc fep,c xncI.dwrxiyezn”

“Ipscwhcshfce.ddc rckp.k?”

“Irdd,cshfcm.ywcncncn”

“.p,cYcmrrnc.cmdyvpkcehglfmyhgchlcywr.mncGh,cYc. cghkc xncI.dwrxiyezn
.gwcjrkirrgchfxmrdormcYcmphfdwcp.krckhcjrncPymcymc.corxscE3
ygkrddyvrgerncEh x.wrcI.dwrxiyezcymc rxrdsckprc .gckhciph ckprcf jxrdd.
jrdhgvmn”

Ror’mcrsrmchurgrwciywrn

“Whcshfc r.gckhcm.scshfcv.orc rcmh rjhwscrdmr’mcf jxrdd.?”

“Ycp.wcfglhxkfg.krdsch ykkrwckhcjxygvc schigchfkciykpc rckpymc hxgygvn”

“Ycgrorxcpr.xwchlcmfepc.ckpygv!”

“ rxrdscux.ekye.dcMhey.dym ncHkprxcurhudrc.xrcehgkrgkckhck.dzc.jhfkckpr
XrwymkxyjfkyhgchlcUxhurxksncYcvhchfkc.gwcwhcykn”

“Jfkcihg’kcprcjrc.ilfddsc.gvxsciprgcprclygwmchfkcykcp.mcvhgr?”

“Prc_p.m_clhfgwchfknc.gwcykci.mcuxrkksckhcmrrcpymcwrdyvpkncYcrqud.ygrw
kprceyxef mk.germ,c.gwcprci.mcep.x rwckhcp.orcjrrgchlcmrxoyerckhcshfn”

Kprcwhhxchurgrwc.v.yg,c.gwckpymcky rcykci.mc ymmcEd.xzmhgcygcurxmhg
iphcrgkrxrwncMprcp.wclhfgwcRgbfyxyrm’cmk.kr rgkchorxckprcmur.zygv-kfjr
x. jdygvc.gwcfgm.kyml.ekhxs,c.gwcp.wceh rckhcygormkyv.krclhxcprxmrdl
kprcxr.mhgcipsckprc .epygrxschlckprchllyerci.mcjrygvcprdwcfun

“Hp,cYc fmkcvh,”cm.ywcRor,c.mcmprcm.icprxnc“Y’ cygkrxxfukygvcshfx
jfmygrmmn”

“Y’ cmhcvd.wcshf’xrcmkyddcprxr,cwr.x,”cm.ywc ymmcEd.xzmhgnc“Ycp.orctfmk
jrrgcdhhzygvchorxc sclydrm,c.gwcYcmrrckp.kckprxrc_ym_chgrco.e.gesncLhx
.cgfxmr,”cm.ywc ymmcEd.xzmhgciykpc.ckhfepchlckprc.uhdhvrkyecygcprx
ohyern

“Hp,cgh,ckp.k’mc.ddcxyvpk,”cm.ywcRornc“Ycwhg’kcxr.ddscgrrwc.gskpygvn
Jfkckp.gzmcrorxcmhc fepclhxcjhkprxygvn”

Mprcm ydrwc.llrekyhg.krdscfuhgckprcuxhuxyrkxrmm,cjrmkhirwc.ghkprxcm ydr
fuhgcUm ykpc.mcprchurgrwckprcwhhxclhxcprx,c.gwcirgkchfkncUm ykpckfxgrw
.i.sclxh ckprcwhhxciykpc.ckphfvpklfdcdhhzcfuhgcpymcl.ern

“Ymckp.kcshfgvcd.wsc.cgfxmr?”cprc.mzrwn

“Whcshfci.gkc.cgfxmr?”cygbfyxrwc ymmcEd.xzmhg,c.kchgerckprcih .gchl
jfmygrmmn

“Yci.gkckp.kcgfxmr,”cm.ywcUm ykpciykpcehgoyekyhgn

“Mprcymc.cwrdyvpklfdcvyxd,”cm.ywc ymmcEd.xzmhgciykpcrgkpfmy.m nc“Kprxr
ymcghchgrcygciph cYcihfdwclrrdc hxrcehglywrgercygcxreh  rgwygvckhc.
uhmykyhgncMprcymc.c ymmcP.ddyw.s,ckprcw.fvpkrxchlc.corxscedrorxcjfk
rxx.kyecixykrx,ciphcwyrwcmh rcsr.xmc.vhncYce.gcmur.zciykpcu.xkyefd.x
zghidrwvrchlc ymmcP.ddyw.s,clhxcYci.mclhxc .gscsr.xmc.gc.mmymk.gk
 ymkxrmmc.kcI.sd.gwcPhfmr,ciprxrcmprci.mc.kcmephhdncMprcymc.cep.x ygv,
i.x -pr.xkrw,cy ufdmyorcvyxdncncncncJfkcshfciyddcp.xwdsci.gkckhcpr.x
.ddckpymn”

“Hgckprcehgkx.xs,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“YcehfdwcdymkrgclhxcphfxmncShfcp.or
mkf jdrwcfuhgc scl.ohfxykrcmfjtrekn”

 ymmcEd.xzmhgcrsrwcpy c.cdykkdrcwhfjklfdds,c.gwcwreywrwckp.kcykcihfdw
jrcjrmkckhcxrygkxhwferckprcjfmygrmmckpr rn

“Urxp.um,ciprgcshfcm.scshfc.xrcdhhzygvclhxc.cgfxmr,cshfc r.gcshfcgrrwc.
phmuyk.dcgfxmr?”

“ sclxyrgwmcp.orcmh rky rmcmfvvrmkrwcykn”

“ ymmcP.ddyw.s’mcvxr.krmkcrqurxyrgercp.m,chlcehfxmr,cjrrgc.mc.
vhorxgrmmn”

“.cvhorxgrmmcymctfmkc.mcvhhw,”cm.ywcUm ykpc.vxrr.jdsn

 ymmcEd.xzmhgcjrv.gckhcjrcehgmeyhfmchlc.cmrgm.kyhgchlcjrygvchfkchlcprx
wrukpn

“Phichdwc.xrcshfxcepydwxrg,cmyx?”cmprc.mzrwn

“Yclr.x,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“shfc.xrcurruygvcygkhcOhdf rcKihncKpymcxh .ger
p.mchgdsctfmkcmk.xkrwn”

“Yc. c.lx.yw,”cm.ywc ymmcEd.xzmhg,cghiceh udrkrdsclhvvrw,c“Ycwhcghk
bfykrcfgwrxmk.gwncIp.kcrq.ekdsc.xrcshfcdhhzygvclhx?”

Um ykpcldyezrwc.cmurezchlcldfllclxh cpymceh.k-mdrrorn

“.cthj,”cprcm.ywn

“.cthj!”crephrwc ymmcEd.xzmhg,cprxcohyercjxr.zygvcygc.gc. .arwcmbfr.zn

Um ykpcx.ymrwcpymcrsrjxhimn

“Shfcmrr cmfxuxymrwncYmg’kckpymc.cthjcr uhxyf ?”

“Kpymc_ym_c.gcR udhs rgkcJfxr.f,”c.w ykkrwc ymmcEd.xzmhgn

“Yczgricyk,cYczgricyk,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Mh rkpygvcmrr rwckhckrddc rn
Uhmmyjdscykci.mckprcdrvrgwc‘R udhs rgkcJfxr.f’chorxckprcwhhxnc.gw
kphmrclx. rwckrmky hgy.dmcihfdwcehgoygerckprc hmkcmerukye.dncSrm,c ymm
Ed.xzmhg,cYci.gkc.cthj,c.gwcYclrrdcmh rphickp.kcshfc.xrckprcih .g
khclygwcykclhxc rncYcp.orcygmrxkrwc.gc.worxkymr rgkcygckprcu.urxm,
rquxrmmygvc scxr.wygrmmckhcfgwrxk.zrc.gsclhx chlcr udhs rgk,cjfkcYcp.or
mygercjrvfgckhcihgwrxcylc.lkrxc.ddckpymciyddcdr.wckhcir.dkpc.gwcl. rn
.kc.gscx.kr,cykcymciymrckhc.kk.ezckprcvxr.kcihxdwclxh c.ghkprxc.gvdrc.m
irdd,cmhcYceh rckhcshfn”

“Jfkcshfc fmkcrqefmrc rcylcYcxr .xzckp.kckpymc.uudye.kyhgchlcshfxm
mkxyzrmc rc.mc hmkcrqkx.hxwyg.xsn”

“Ips?cYc. cshfgv,c.ekyor,c.gwcrqkxr rdscjxhzrn”

“Jfkcshfx--rx--shfxcedhkprmcncncn”

Um ykpcmbfygkrw,cghkciykphfkceh ud.erges,cwhigc.cl.fdkdrmmdsclykkygv
i.ymkeh.k,c.gwcldyezrwc.ghkprxcmurezchlcwfmkchllcpymcmdrrorn

“Shfcehgmywrxc rcirddcwxrmmrw?”cprcm.ywnc“Shfclygwc rcg.kks?cIrdd,
irdd,curxp.umcshfc.xrcxyvpk,curxp.umcshfc.xrcxyvpkncJfkcehgmywrx,c ymm
Ed.xzmhgncYlchgrcrqurekmckhclygwcr udhs rgkcygckprmrcw.smchlcmkxrgfhfm
eh urkykyhg,chgrc fmkcjrcgr.kdsc.gwcwrergkdsced.wncR udhsrxmcdhhz
.mz.gerc.kc.cj.vvsckxhfmrx-drvnc.cayuusci.ymkeh.kcymc hxrckhckpr ckp.g
.gcphgrmkcpr.xkncKpymcjr.fkylfdcexr.mrci.mchjk.ygrwciykpckprc.ywchlckpr
 .kkxrmmcfuhgcipyepcYckhmmrwclrorxympdscd.mkcgyvpkcygc sc.kkyecxhh n”

“Yce.g’kck.zrcshfcmrxyhfmdsn”

“Hp,cwhg’kcm.sckp.k,cudr.mrn”

“Shfcxr.ddsci.gkc rckhclygwcshfcihxz?”

“Ycuxrlrxckprckrx c‘r udhs rgkn’”

 ymmcEd.xzmhgcuxhwferwc.cghkrjhhzn

“Ylcshfc.xrcxr.ddscghkc .zygvckpymc.uudye.kyhgctfmkc.mc.cthzrcncncn”

“Yc.mmfxrcshf,cghnc scrgkyxrce.uyk.dcehgmymkm,cygcmureyr,chlc.jhfkckrg
uhfgwmn”

“Kprgcurxp.umcshfciyddckrddc rcshfxcg. rn”

“.p!cKpygvmc.xrcjrvyggygvckhc horncKprcg. rcymcUm ykpncU-m ykpncKprcu
ymcmydrgkn”

“Um ykp?”

“Um ykpn”

 ymmcEd.xzmhgcjxhhwrwchorxckpymclhxc.c h rgkcygc.d hmkcu.ygrwcmydrger,
kprgcxrehorxrwcprxcmdyuuygvcvxyuchlc.ll.yxmn

“Yckpygz,”cmprcm.yw,c“shfcp.wcjrkkrxcvyorc rc.clricu.xkyefd.xmc.jhfk
shfxmrdln”

“KprxrcymcghkpygvcYcmphfdwcdyzrcjrkkrx,”cxrmuhgwrwcUm ykpci.x dsnc“Y
. c.di.smcxr.ws--Yc .scm.scr.vrx--khckrddcurhudrckprcmkhxschlc scdylr,
jfkcygckpymcxfmpygvc.vrcYcvrkcdykkdrcrgehfx.vr rgkncDrkcfmcmk.xkc.k
kprcjrvyggygvnc scygl.gesncIprgcYci.mcjfkc.cj.jr,c scrdwrmkcmymkrxci.m
jxyjrwciykpcmyqurgerc.gcphfxcjsc scgfxmrckhczrruc.gcrsrchgc rc.gwcmrr
kp.kcYcwywcghkcx.ymrcE.ygnc.kckprcrgwchlckprclyxmkcw.scmprcmkxfezclhxc.
mpyddygv,c.gwcvhkcykncIrcghicu.mmckhc scjhsphhwnc.kc.gcr.xdsc.vrcYci.m
mrgkckhcRkhg,crorxsjhwscuxrwyekygvc.cjxyvpkce.xrrxclhxc rncKphmrcirxr
p.uuscw.sm,c ymmcEd.xzmhgnc.c rxxs,cd.fvpygvcd.wciykpcefxdscp.yxc.gwc.
mfggscm ydr,cykcymcghkckhhc fepckhcm.sckp.kcYci.mckprcurkchlckprcud.ern
KprchdwcedhymkrxmncncncncJfkcYc. cjhxygvcshfncYce.gcmrrcykcygcshfxcrsrn”

“Gh,cgh,”cuxhkrmkrwc ymmcEd.xzmhgnc“Jfkcip.kcYc r.gkci.mcncncncY
kphfvpkcshfc yvpkcp.orcp.wcmh rcrqurxyrgercygcmh rcu.xkyefd.xcdygr
hlcncncncYgcl.ek,cip.kcmhxkchlcihxzcncncnc?”

“R udhs rgkn”

“Ip.kcmhxkchlcr udhs rgkcwhcshfcxrbfyxr?”

“Jxh.wdscmur.zygv,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“.gscxr.mhg.jdscm.d.xyrwcuhmykyhgckp.k
p.mcghkpygvckhcwhciykpclympn”

“Lymp!”cbf.orxrwc ymmcEd.xzmhg,cmdyuuygvc.v.ygnc“Ipsclymp?”

“Jre.fmr,c ymmcEd.xzmhg,ckprclympckx.wrci.mcfgkydckpymc hxgygvc sci.dz
ygcdylr,c.gwc scmhfdcp.mcmyezrgrwchlcykn”

“Shfc.xrcygckprc_lymp_ckx.wr?”cmbfr.zrwc ymmcEd.xzmhg,ciykpc.gc. .arw
vd.gerc.kckprczgylr-dyzrcexr.mrcygcpymckxhfmrxmn

“Kprmrc.xrcghkc scihxzygvcedhkprm,”cm.ywcUm ykp,clhddhiygvc.gw
ygkrxuxrkygvcprxcvd.gernc“Srm,chiygvckhc.clyg.gey.dcfupr.o.dcygc s
jx.gepchlckprcl. yds,cYci.mcfgkydckpymc hxgygvc.kckprcjrezc.gwce.dd
hlc.gcfgedrciphcfglhxkfg.krdscp.uurgmckhcjrc.c .ezrxrdc hg.xepchxc.
M.xwygrcMfdk.g,chxcip.krorxckprmrc rxep.gkcuxygermc.xrce.ddrwciphcxfdr
kprclympc .xzrkncPrcygmymkrwchgc scvhygvcygkhckprcjfmygrmmckhcdr.xg
ykclxh ckprcjhkkh cfu,ckpygzygv,cghcwhfjk,ckp.kcYcihfdwclhddhicygcpym
lhhkmkrumc.gwcrorgkf.ddscihxzc sci.sckhckprcuhmykyhgchlc.cIpykrj.yk
Iya.xwnc.d.m!cprci.mckhhcm.gvfygrncYkci.mcghkckhcjr,”cm.ywcUm ykp
mhdr gds,clyqygvc.gchid-dyzrcv.archgc ymmcEd.xzmhgckpxhfvpcpymcrsrvd.mmn

“Gh?”cm.ywc ymmcEd.xzmhgn

“GhncD.mkcgyvpkcYci.mchjdyvrwckhcyglhx cpy ckp.kckprclympcjfmygrmm
i.mc.ddcxyvpk,cjfkcykcihfdwg’kcwh,c.gwckp.kcYcuxhuhmrwckhcmrorxc s
ehggrekyhgciykpckprclyx clhxcrorxncYc .scm.sc.kchgerckp.kckprxrcrgmfrw
mh rkpygvcygckprcg.kfxrchlc.cl. ydscr.xkpbf.zrncP.xwcihxwm,”cmyvprw
Um ykpnc“Jd.ezcdhhzmncFgmrr dscix.gvdrnc.gwckprcfumphkchlcykc.ddci.m
kp.kc scfgedrci.mprwcpymcp.gwmchlc rc.gwcwxhorc rclhxkpcygkhckprcvxr.k
ihxdwncPrgerc sc.gqyrksckhclygwcr udhs rgknc scfgedrcp.mcwrlygykrds
iykpwx.igcpymcehfgkrg.gerclxh c r,c ymmcEd.xzmhgn”

“Wr.x,cwr.x!”c fx fxrwckprcuxhuxyrkxrmmcms u.kprkye.ddsn

“SrmncPrcymc.cp.xwc .g,c.gwcprctfwvrmcpymclrddhimcmhdrdscjsckpryx
wrohkyhgckhclympncYcgrorxcygc scdylrc rkc.c .gcmhcix.uurwcfucygc.
mfjtrekncLhxcsr.xmcprcp.mcjrrgcux.ekye.ddsc.c hgh .gy.echgckprcmfjtrek
hlclympncMhc fepcmhckp.kcprc.ekf.ddscdhhzmcdyzrchgrncYkcymc.mcylcpr
p.wck.zrgchgrchlckphmrc.fkh-mfvvrmkyhgcehfxmrmc.gwcp.wczrukcm.sygv
khcpy mrdl,c‘Rorxscw.s,cygcrorxsci.s,cYcvxhic hxrc.gwc hxrcdyzrc.
lympn’cPymcedhmrmkclxyrgwmce.gcp.xwdsckrddcghiciprkprxcprc hxrcgr.xds
xrmr jdrmc.cp.dyjfkchxc.cehwncncncncJfkcYc. cjhxygvcshfc.v.ygciykpckpym
l. ydscvhmmyu?”

Prcrsrwc ymmcEd.xzmhgciykpcmfepc.cmfwwrgc.gwcurgrkx.kygvcvd.gerckp.k
mprcmk.xkrwcgrxohfmdsn

“Gh,cgh,”cmprcrqed.y rwn

“Shfcxrdyrorc sc.uuxrprgmyhgmncYc. chgdsckhhcirddc.i.xrckp.k,ciprg
l.yxdscd.fgeprwchgckprckhuyechlclymp,cYc. c hxrckp.gc.ukckhcir.xsc s
.fwyrgerncYce.gghkcfgwrxmk.gwckpymcrgkpfmy.m clhxclympnc scfgedrcfmrw
khck.dzc.jhfkc.gcfgfmf.ddscd.xvrce.kepchlcuydep.xwmcygcEhxgi.ddcyg
 fepckprcm. rc.irwci.sc.mc.cxyvpk- ygwrwcefx.krcihfdwck.dzc.jhfkckpr
muyxykf.dcrqerddrgerchlcpymcjymphuncKhc r,c ymmcEd.xzmhg,clxh ckprcorxs
mk.xk,ckprclympcjfmygrmmci.mcip.kcYce.gchgdscwrmexyjrc.mc.ci.mp-hfkncYk
g.fmr.krwc sclygrxclrrdygvmncYkcvhkcxyvpkcygc. hgvmkc sclyjxrmncYcp.w
khcxymrc.gwcu.xk.zrchlc.cmy udrcjxr.zl.mkc.kc.jhfkclhfxcygckprc hxgygv,
.lkrxcipyepcYcihfdwc .zrc sci.sckhcJyddygvmv.krc .xzrkc.gwcmk.gwclhx
mh rcphfxmczgrr-wrrucygcwr.wclympchlcrorxscwrmexyukyhgnc.cthddscdylr
lhxc.ce.k,cghcwhfjk,cjfkc.cjykckhhckpyezclhxc.cMpxhumpyxrcUm ykpn
 ygr,c ymmcEd.xzmhg,cymc.cxrlygrwc.gwcuhrkyecg.kfxrncYcdyzrckhcjr
mfxxhfgwrwcjscthsc.gwcdylr,c.gwcYczghicghkpygvc hxrcthsdrmmc.gwcwr.wrx
kp.gc.cwr.wclympnc fdkyudsckp.kcwr.wclympcjsc.c yddyhg,c.gwcshfcp.or
.gcrgoyxhg rgkcipyepchgdsc.cW.gkrcehfdwcehgkr ud.krciykpcrbf.gy yksn
 scfgedrcfmrwckhckrddc rckp.kckprci.sckhc.merxk.ygciprkprxc.clymp
i.mclxrmpci.mckhcurrxcygkhcykmcrsrmncEhfdwcYcmurgwckprcmuxygvky r
hlcdylrcmk.xygvcygkhckprcrsrmchlcwr.wclymp?cGh!”cPrcxhmrnc“Irdd,cY
iyddcghkcwrk.ygcshfc.gscdhgvrxncKp.gzcshfclhxckprcfgl.ydygvcehfxkrms
.gwc.kkrgkyhgciykpcipyepcshfcp.orcdymkrgrwckhc rncShfce.gcfgwrxmk.gw
ghicipsc sck.drgkmc.xrchgckprc .xzrkc.gwcipscYc. ceh urddrwckhcmk.kr
mureylye.ddsckp.kcghcr udhs rgkce.gcjrcehgmywrxrwcipyepcp.mc.gskpygv
khcwhciykpclympncYc. cehgoygerwckp.kcshfciyddcmphxkdscp.orcmh rkpygv
u.xkyefd.xdscvhhwckhchllrxc rn”

“Ycwhg’kczghickp.kcYce.gcm.sckp.k,c xncUm ykpn”

“Kprcucymcmydrgk,c.mcygcumpxy u,”cprcxr ygwrwcprxnc“Hp,cjsckprci.s,”cpr
m.yw,cu.fmygvc.kckprcwhhx,c“kprxrcymchgrchkprxckpygvcjrlhxrcYcvhncIpydr
Yci.mci.ykygvclhxcshfckhcjrcwymrgv.vrw,cYcep.gerwchgc.gcygmk.d rgkchlc.
mrxy.dcmkhxscygc_KprcVyxd’mcUrk_clhxcT.gf.xs,c1919nc scmr.xepclhxckpr
xr .ygygvcymmfrmcuxhorwclxfykdrmmncKprckykdrci.mc‘PrxcPhghfxc.kcMk.zr,’
jscT.grcR  rdygrc hmmncShfcwhg’kcp.uurgckhczghicphicykc.ddce. rchfk
ygckprcrgw,cwhcshf?cWywcDhxwcRfmk.ercrorxcdr.xgckp.k,ciprgcprclhfgw
Ed.xyercygcMyxcT.murx’mcxhh mc.kc ywgyvpk,cmprcp.wchgdscvhgrckprxrckh
xrehorxcmh rceh uxh ymygvcdrkkrxmclhxc.cvyxdclxyrgw?cShfcwhg’kczghi?
Yclr.xrwc.mc fepncIrdd,cvhhwc hxgygv,c ymmcEd.xzmhg,cvhhwc hxgygvncY
dr.orc sclfkfxrcygcshfxcp.gwmciykpc.cdyvpkcpr.xkn”

“Yciyddcwhc scjrmkclhxcshf,chlcehfxmrn”

“.gwcip.k,”cm.ywcUm ykpcehxwy.dds,c“ehfdwcjrcjrkkrxckp.gc ymm
Ed.xzmhg’mcjrmk?”

Prcedhmrwckprcwhhxcvrgkdscjrpygwcpy ,c.gwcirgkchfkncMkxfezcjsc.czygwds
kphfvpk,cprck.uurwcfuhgcRgbfyxyrm’ciygwhi,c.gwcjr. rwcjrgrohdrgkdsc.m
prxcjhjjrwcpr.wcmphkcygkhcoyrin

“Kprsckrddc r,”cprcm.yw,c“kp.kc.muywymkx.cymc fepcl.geyrwclhxckprclhfx
h’edhezcx.erc.kcJyx ygvp. ckpymc.lkrxghhgncYcvyorckprcyglhx .kyhg
iykphfkcuxrtfwyer,clhxcip.kcykcymcihxkpncVhhwcw.s!”




EP.UKRXcOY

DHXWcR MIHXKPc RRKMc.cUHRK


§c1

Kprcx.ygcp.wcmkhuurwciprgcUm ykpcmkruurwchfkcygkhckprcmkxrrk,c.gw
kprcmfgci.mcmpygygvc.v.ygcygckp.kcp.dlcjdfmkrxygv,cp.dlc.uhdhvrkye
 .ggrxcipyepcykc.llrekmchgcykmcxr.uur.x.gerc.lkrxc.cmf  rxcmphirxncKpr
u.or rgkmcvdymkrgrwceprrxlfdds,c.gwckprc.yxcp.wc.cirdeh rclxrmpgrmmn
U.fmygvc.kckprcehxgrx,cprcuhgwrxrwclhxc.c h rgkc.mckhckprcjrmkc rkphw
hlcu.mmygvckprcphfxc.gwckirgksc ygfkrmcipyepc fmkcrd.umrcjrlhxrcpr
ehfdwcxr.mhg.jdsckpygzchlcdfgepygvncKprcl.ekckp.kckprchllyermchlckpr
_ hxgygvcVdhjr_cirxrciykpygcr.mscmkxhddygvcwymk.gercwreywrwcpy ckhcvh
kpykprxc.gwcmrrcylckprclyxmkcuhmkcp.wcjxhfvpkc.gskpygvcygckprcmp.ur
hlc.gmirxmckhcpymc.worxkymr rgkmnc.gwcpymcrgrxvsci.mcxri.xwrwc.clri
 ygfkrmcd.krxciprgcJhqc365chgcjrygvchurgrwcsyrdwrwcfucbfykrc.cdykkdr
jfwvrkchlcdykrx.xsc .kkrxncGhclrirxckp.gcmrorgcdrkkrxmcygc.ddnc.cgyer
j.vn

Ip.k,cphirorx,cp.wc.uur.xrwc.kclyxmkcmyvpkcroywrgerchlc.cudr.mygv
rjfddykyhgchlcrgkrxuxymrchgckprcu.xkchlckprcgrimu.urx-xr.wygvcufjdye
kfxgrwchfkchgcedhmrxcygmurekyhg,ciprgcprcp.wcxrkyxrwckhc.cehxgrxciprxr
prcehfdwcehgergkx.krcygcur.er,c.cphddhicwrdfmyhgncRgkrxuxymygvcygc.
mrgmrckphfvpckprceh  fgye.kyhgmcirxr--.gwckprscerxk.ygdscmphirwckpr
ixykrxmc.mc rgchlcehgmywrx.jdrcvygvrxc.gwcjfmygrmmcufmp--khcUm ykpckprs
e. rc.mc.cwym.uuhygk rgkncPrcp.wcrqurekrwcjrkkrxckpygvmncKprmrcdrkkrxm
irxrcghkc.kc.ddcip.kcprcp.wcu.ywcvhhwc hgrsckhcxreryorncKprsc ymmrw
kprcuhygkc.dkhvrkprxncKprcxyvpkcmuyxyk,cykcmrr rwckhcpy ,ci.mcrgkyxrds
.jmrgkn

Kprclyxmkcrgordhur,c.kkx.ekyorckphfvpcykcdhhzrwclxh ckprchfkmywr,cjrygv
hlc.gcrqurgmyorcjx.gwchlcmk.kyhgrxsc.gwcv.ydsc.whxgrwciykpc.cmh rip.k
mk.xkdygvcexrmkc rxrdscehgk.ygrwc.cudr.m.gkds-ihxwrwchllrxclxh c.c xn
.dymk.yxc .eWhfv.ddckhc.wo.gercpy c.gscmf clxh ckrgckhclylksckphfm.gw
uhfgwmchgcpymcghkrchlcp.gwchgdsncKprcmrehgwcxror.drwc.cmy yd.xcuxhuhm.d
lxh c.ghkprxcMehkcg. rwcEhdygc .eWhg.dwncIpydrcygckprckpyxwc xncY.g
E. ujrddci.mcuxru.xrwckhcvhc.mcpyvpc.mchgrcpfgwxrwckphfm.gwnc.ddckpxrr
upyd.gkpxhuymkmcp.wcjfkchgrcmkyufd.kyhgckhc .zr--kprscihfdwcp.orcgh
wr.dygvmciykpc yghxmncShfkp,ciykpc.ddcykmcvdhxyhfmckx.wykyhgm,cwywcghk
mrr ckhc.uur.dckhckpr ncJfkckprscehxwy.ddscfxvrwcUm ykp,cygckprcrorgk
hlcpymcp.oygvcerdrjx.krwcpymckirgks-lyxmkcjyxkpw.s,ckhceh rcxhfgwckh
kprchllyerc.gwck.zrckprcmkfllc.i.scygc.cm.ezn

Zrruygvcpymcpr.wcirddcygckprc ywmkchlckpymcmphirxchlcxyeprm,cUm ykp
wxhuurwckprckpxrrcdrkkrxmciykpc.cmyvpcygkhckprci.mkr-u.urxcj.mzrk,
.gwchurgrwckprcgrqkcygchxwrxncKpymci.mc.cjfdzscrgordhur,c.gwcykm
ehgkrgkmcehgmymkrwchlc.cuxygkrwcjxhepfxrcrgkykdrw,c“KpymcGyvpkcMp.dd
KpscMhfdcJrcXrbfyxrwcHlcKprr”--ipydr,cjsc.cefxyhfmc.gwc.uuxhuxy.kr
ehygeywrger,cGf jrxcLyorcuxhorwckhcjrc.ceyxefd.xclxh c.gcrgrxvrkyeclyx 
hlcehllyg- .zrxmchllrxygvckhcjfxscpy clhxcryvpkcuhfgwmckrgncGf jrx
Myq,c.dmhcuxygkrw,ci.mc.c .gylrmkhclxh chgrcPhi.xwcPydd,chlcGri .xzrk,
xreh  rgwygvcpy ckhc.uudsciykphfkcwrd.sclhxc“Pydd’mcKpxrr-Phxmr
Murey.d,”ciykphfkcipyep--(“Iph,”cwr .gwrwc xncPyddcygcd.xvrcksur,c“v.or
shfcIyjjds-IhjclhxckprcTfjydrrcEfu?”)--ghcmuhxkm .gcehfdwcphurckh
.eeh udympckprcfgwhygvchlckprcjhhz .zrxmn

.dkphfvpcjscwhygvcmhcprcehgoyekrwcpy mrdlchlckp.kcorxscd.ezchl
rgkrxuxymrcipyepcprcp.wcjrrgcwrudhxygvcygckprcvxr.kcufjdye,cUm ykp
ud.erwckpymceh  fgye.kyhgciykpckprchkprxmcygckprci.mkr-u.urxcj.mzrkmn
Kprxrcghicxr .ygrwchgdscGf jrxcMrorg,c.gwc.cmdyvpkcldyezrxchlcphur
xrkfxgrwckhcpy ciprgcprcurxeryorwckp.kckpymcrgordhurci.mc.wwxrmmrwcjs
p.gwc.gwcghkcygcksurmexyukncPrchurgrwcykn

Jrshgwc.cwhfjkcprcp.wczrukckprcuyezchlckprcjfgepckhckprcd.mkncPrxrci.m
mh rkpygvckp.kc .wrcfuclhxc.ddckphmrchkprxcwym.uuhygk rgkmncIxykkrgcyg
.cmex.idsc.gwc.uu.xrgkdsc.vyk.krwcp.gw,ckprcdrkkrxcx.gc.mclhddhim:

cc“_YlcXncUm ykpciyddc rrkckprcixykrxcygckprcdhjjschlckprcUyee.wydds
ccU.d.ercPhkrdc.kckirdorcmp.xu,cLxyw.s,cTfdsc1,cjfmygrmmc .scxrmfdk
ccylcjfmygrmmc r.gkc.gwckrx mcxr.mhg.jdrncXncUm ykpciyddcir.xc.cuygz
ccepxsm.gkpr f cygcpymcjfkkhgphdr,c.gwciyddcm.sckhckprcixykrx,c‘Kprxr
cciyddcjrcx.ygcygcGhxkpf jrxd.gwckh- hxxhi,’ckhcipyepckprcixykrxciydd
ccxruds,c‘Vhhwclhxckprcexhumn’cZygwdscjrcufgekf.dn_”

.cudr.mrwcm ydrcud.srwc.jhfkcUm ykp’mcmhdr gcl.erc.mcprcxr.wckpym
eh  fgye.kyhgclhxckprcmrehgwcky rncYkci.mc fepc hxrckprcmhxkchlckpygv
lhxcipyepcprcp.wcjrrgcphuygvnc.dkphfvpcpymcedhmrmkclxyrgw,c yzr
T.ezmhg,ci.mc.cshfgvc .gchlceh udrkrchxwyg.xygrmm,cUm ykp’mck.mkrm
iprgcprcmhfvpkceh u.gyhgmpyucd.sc.mc.cxfdrcygckprcwyxrekyhgchlckpr
jya.xxrncPrcuxrlrxxrwcpymcpf .gykscreergkxyenc.gwc“kprcixykrx,”ckh
tfwvrcpy cjsckpymcmurey rgchlcpymcehxxrmuhgwrger,c.uur.xrwckhcjr
reergkxyecrghfvpclhxckprc hmkcrq.ekygvck.mkrncIprkprxckpymcuxh ymygv
urxmhgckfxgrwchfkckhcjrc.cxyj.dwctrmkrxchxc.gcr.xgrmkcex.gz,cUm ykp
lrdkcghcwhfjkcip.krorxc.mckhckprc.woym.jydykschlclhddhiygvckprc .kkrx
funcIpyeprorxcprc yvpkcjr,cpymcmheyrkschfvpkckhc.llhxwcrgkrxk.yg rgk
wfxygvckprcygkrxo.dcjrlhxrcdfgepncUm ykpcvd.gerwc.kcpymci.kepncKpr
phfxci.mc.cbf.xkrxckhckirdorncPrcihfdwcjrc.jdrckhcmrefxrckprcgrermm.xs
epxsm.gkpr f c.gwcxr.epckprcUyee.wyddscU.d.ercPhkrdcjsckirdorcmp.xu,
kpfmc.epyroygvckprcjfmygrmmdyzrcufgekf.dykschgcipyepckprcfgzghigcixykrx
mrr rwckhcmrkcmfepcmkhxrn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Ykci.mcghkcfgkydcprcp.wcrgkrxrwc.cldhxymk’mcmphuchgckprci.sckhckpr
kxsmkckp.kcykci.mcjhxgrcygcfuhgcpy ckp.kckprc.worgkfxrci.mcvhygv
khcp.orcykmcwx.ij.ezmncKprclyxmkchlckprmrci.mckprcepxsm.gkpr f n
Uxrheefuyrwciykpckprcxrmkchlckprceh  fgye.kyhg,cUm ykp,ciprgcprcp.w
xr.wckprcdrkkrx,cp.wcghkcvyorgc fepckphfvpkckhckprcwrehx.kyhgcipyep
ykcihfdwcjrcgrermm.xsclhxcpy ckhcir.x;c.gwcykci.mchgdsciprg,cygcxruds
khcpymcwr .gwclhxc.cepxsm.gkpr f ,ckprcldhxymkce. rclhxi.xw,c.d hmk
pywwrg,cdyzrckprc.x sc.kcWfgmyg.gr,cjrpygwcip.kcdhhzrwcdyzrc.cm .dd
mpxfjjrxs,ckp.kcprcxr.dymrwcip.kcpr,c.cehxxrekc.gwcl.mkywyhfmcwxrmmrx,
i.mcfuc.v.ygmkn

“Ymckp.kc.cepxsm.gkpr f ?”

“Srm,cmyxncUygzcepxsm.gkpr f n”

“Hgr?”

“Srm,cmyxncHgrcuygzcepxsm.gkpr f n”

Um ykpcxrv.xwrwckprcxrurddrgkchjtrekciykpcwyml.ohfxckpxhfvpcpym
rsrvd.mmncKprg,cp.oygvcud.erwcykcygcpymcjfkkhgphdr,cprcuxherrwrwchgcpym
i.s,clrrdygvcdyzrcmh rciydwckpygvcurrxygvckpxhfvpckprcfgwrxvxhikpncKpr
wymkxrmmygvcmpxfjceh udrkrdscmuhydrwcpymci.dzn

.xxyorwc.kckprcphkrdc.gwcmk.gwygvcygckprcdhjjs,cprcurxeryorwckpr
rqymkrgerchlclfxkprxceh udye.kyhgmncKprcdhjjsci.mcygcykmcfmf.dcmk.krchl
ehgvrmkyhg,cykcjrygvc.cxrehvgymrwc rrkygv-ud.erclhxckphmrciphcwywcghk
lygwcykcehgorgyrgkckhcvhc.mcl.xcr.mkc.mckp.kckx.wykyhg.dcxrgwraohfmchl
Dhgwhgrxm,ckprcmuhkcfgwrxckprcedhezc.kcEp.xygvcExhmmcMk.kyhg;c.gwc“kpr
ixykrx,”cipydrcvyoygvcygmkxfekyhgmc.mckhcphicUm ykpcmphfdwchxg. rgkcpym
rqkrxyhx,cp.wce.xrdrmmdsch ykkrwckhc rgkyhgcphicprcpy mrdlci.mckhcjr
xrehvgymrwnc.cxhddyezygv,cmd.u-w.mpcehgmuyx.khx,ci.mcUm ykp’mchuygyhgn

Ykcmrr rwcjrmkckhck.zrcfuc.cuhmykyhgc.mcgr.xdsc.mcuhmmyjdrcygckpr
ergkxrchlckprcdhjjsc.gwcmk.gwckprxrcfgkydc“kprcixykrx,”cdfxrwcjs
kprcepxsm.gkpr f ,cmphfdwceh rclhxi.xwc.gwcmk.xkcmh rkpygvncKpym
prc.eehxwygvdscwyw,cjfkciprgc.kckprcrgwchlckrgc ygfkrmcghkpygvcp.w
p.uurgrwcjrshgwc.cmrxyrmchlcehddymyhgmciykpcurxp.umc.cwhargcpfxxsygv
oymykhxmckhckprcphkrd,cprcwreywrwchgc.c hxrc.ekyorcehfxmrnc.cshfgv
 .gchlcmuhxkygvc.uur.x.gercp.wcjrrgcmk.gwygvcjrmywrcpy clhxckprcd.mk
lyorc ygfkrm,c.gwcrorxc.gwc.ghgckpymcshfgvc .gcp.wcvd.gerwciykpcmh r
y u.kyrgerc.kcpymci.kepncPrci.mcud.ygdsci.ykygvclhxcmh rhgr,cmhcUm ykp
kxyrwckprclhx fd.chgcpy n

“Kprxrciyddcjrcx.yg,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“ygcGhxkpf jrxd.gwckh- hxxhin”

Kprcshfgvc .gcdhhzrwc.kcpy ,cghkciykphfkcygkrxrmk,cerxk.ygds,cjfk
iykphfkckp.kcvdr. chlcygkrddyvrgercygcpymcrsrcipyepcUm ykpcp.wcphurwckh
mrrn

“Ip.k?”cprcxrudyrwn

“Kprxrciyddcjrcx.ygcygcGhxkpf jrxd.gwckh- hxxhin”

“Kp.gzm,cA.wzyrd,”cm.ywckprcshfgvc .gnc“Wrferwcvx.kylsygv,cY’ cmfxrncY
mfuuhmrcshfcehfdwg’kcuxrwyekckprciyggrxchlckprcVhhwihhwcEfuc.mcirdd?”

Prckprgciykpwxricx.uywdsckhcygkrxerukc.cshfgvcih .gcygc.cd.xvrcp.k
iphcp.wctfmkceh rckpxhfvpckprcmiygvcwhhxmncUm ykpci.mclhxerwckhckpr
ehgedfmyhgckp.kckpymci.mcghkcpymc .gncPrci.mcmhxxschgckprciphdr,clhxcpr
p.wcmrr rwc.cudr.m.gkclrddhin

.mcUm ykpcp.wck.zrgcfuc.cmk.kyhg.xscuhmykyhgc.gwckprcuhufd.kyhgchl
kprcdhjjsci.mclhxckprc hmkcu.xkcygc.cmk.krchlcldfq,cprci.mclygwygv
py mrdlcgrqkckhcmh rhgrcgric.ddckprcky r;c.gwcghicprcwreywrwckhc.eehmk
kprcygwyoywf.dciph ckprcxr-mpflldrcp.wctfmkcjxhfvpkcrdjhickhcrdjhi
iykpcpy ncKpymci.mc.cthoy.d-dhhzygvcmhfdciykpc.cldhirxrwci.ymkeh.k,c.
ipykrcp.k,c.gwc.c hkkdrwcl.erncTfmkckprc .gciphc yvpkcp.orcixykkrgckp.k
drkkrxn

KprcrllrekcfuhgckpymcurxmhgchlcUm ykp’mc rkrhxhdhvye.dcxr .xzci.m
ygmk.gk.grhfmnc.cdyvpkchlckprcfk hmkclxyrgwdygrmmcmphgrcygcpym
jr.fkylfdds-mp.orgcl.erc.mcprckfxgrwncPrcmryarwcUm ykp’mcp.gwc.gw
vxyuurwcykciykpc.cwrdyvpklfdcpr.xkygrmmncPrcp.wckprc.yxchlc.c .gciph
p.mclhfgwc.clxyrgw,c.gwcip.kcymc hxr,c.gchdwclxyrgwncPrcp.wc.cmhxkchl
thfxgrsm-rgw-yg-dhorxm’- rrkygvcdhhzn

“ scwr.xchdwcep.u!”cprcexyrwnc“Y’orcjrrgci.ykygvclhxcshfckhcmur.zclhx
kprcd.mkclyorc ygfkrmncZgricir’wc rkcjrlhxrcmh riprxr,cjfkcehfdwg’k
ud.ercshfncL.ercl. ydy.xc.mckprcwyezrgm,chlcehfxmrncIrdd,cirdd,cirdd!
.gwcphic.xrckprsc.dd?”

“Iph?”cm.ywcUm ykpcehfxkrhfmdsn

“Ips,ckprcjhsm,c scwr.xcep.un”

“Hp,ckprcjhsm?”

“Kprcwr.xchdwcjhsm,”cm.ywckprchkprx,cmureylsygvc hxrcrq.ekdsncPr
md.uurwcUm ykpchgckprcmphfdwrxnc“Ip.kcky rmckphmrcirxr,crp?”

“Ipyep?”cm.ywcUm ykpn

“Kprcky rmcirc.ddcfmrwckhcp.orckhvrkprxn”

“Hp,c_kphmr_?”cm.ywcUm ykpn

Mh rkpygvchlcwymehfx.vr rgkcmrr rwckhcexrruchorxckprchkprx’m
rqfjrx.ger,c.mc.cedhfwcexrrumchorxckprcmf  rxcmzsncJfkcprcurxmrorxrwn

“L.gesc rrkygvcshfc.v.ygcdyzrckpym!”

“Ykcymc.cm .ddcihxdw,”c.vxrrwcUm ykpn

“Y’wc.mzcshfckhceh rc.gwcp.orc.cwxygz,”cm.ywckprcthoy.dchgr,ciykpckpr
mdyvpkcygexr.mrchlckrgmykscipyepceh rmckhc.c .gciphc.uuxh.eprmckpr
ehxrchlc.cjfmygrmmcwr.d,c“jfkckprcl.ekcymc sc.mmchlc.c .gcmrgkc rchfk
kpymc hxgygvciykphfkc.curggsncLhxvhkckhcvyorc rc scghkr-e.mrncW. g’
e.xrdrmm!cY’ddcp.orckhcm.ezckprclrddhin”

“.gghsygv,cerxk.ygds,”cm.ywcUm ykpn

“YciympcYcehfdwcp.orcmkhhwcshfc.cwxygz,”cm.ywckprchkprxciymklfddsn

“Hlc.ddcm.wcihxwmchlckhgvfrchxcurg,ckprcm.wwrmkc.xrckprmr,c‘Ykc yvpk
p.orcjrrg,’”cmyvprwcUm ykpn

“Y’ddckrddcshfcip.k,”cm.ywckprcthoy.dchgr,cygmuyxrwnc“Drgwc rc.clyorx,
 scwr.xchdwcjhsncKp.k’mckprcjrmkci.schfkchlckprcwyllyefdksncYce.gcmrgw
ykcxhfgwckhcshfxcphkrdchxciprxrorxcshfc.xrckpymcrorgygvciprgcYcvrk
ph rn”

.cmirrk,cm.wcm ydrcud.srwchorxcUm ykp’mcl.ern

“Dr.orc r,ceh x.wr!”cprc fx fxrwn

“Rp?”

“U.mmc.dhgv,chdwclxyrgw,cu.mmc.dhgvn”

Xrmyvg.kyhgcwymud.erwcthoy.dykscygckprchkprx’mcehfgkrg.gern

“Ghkpygvcwhygv?”cprcygbfyxrwn

“Ghkpygvn”

“Irdd,ckprxrci.mcghcp.x cygckxsygv,”c.xvfrwckprchkprxn

“Ghgrcip.krorxn”

“Shfcmrr,”cm.ywckprcghicl.xcdrmmcthoy.dc .gcehglywrgky.dds,c“shfcdhhz
mfepc.curxlrekc fvciykpckp.kcrsrvd.mmckp.kcykckr ukmc.cep.un”

“Yce.gcbfykrcfgwrxmk.gwcphicykc fmk!”

“Ghchllrgern”

“.mmfxrwdscghkn”

Kprcipykrcp.kcwym.uur.xrwckpxhfvpckprcmiygvcwhhxm,c.gwcUm ykpcxrkfxgrw
khcpymcbfrmkncPrcrgv.vrwckprc.kkrgkyhgchlc.c ywwdr-.vrwc .gcygc.
mgfll-ehdhfxrwcmfykciphcp.wctfmkceh rciykpygcp.ydn

“Kprxrciyddcjrcx.ygcygcGhxkpf jrxd.gwckh- hxxhi,”cprcm.ywn

Kprc .gcurrxrwc.kcpy cygbfyxygvdsn

“Prs?”cprcm.ywn

Um ykpcxrur.krwcpymchjmrxo.kyhgn

“Pfp?”cm.ywckprc .gn

Um ykpci.mcjrvyggygvckhcdhmrckprcfgxflldrwce.d cipyepc .wrcpy 
mfepc.gcy uxrmmyorclyvfxrckhckprcufjdyecrsrncPrcp.wcghkck.zrgcygkh
ehgmywrx.kyhgckprcuhmmyjydyksckp.kckprchjtrekchlcpymcmr.xepc yvpkcjr
wr.lncYkcfgwhfjkrwdsc.wwrwckhckprcr j.xx.mm rgkchlckprcufxmfykncPrci.m
 hoygvc.i.s,ciprgc.cp.gwclrddchgcpymcmdrrorn

Um ykpckfxgrwncKprcp.gwcipyepcmkyddcvx.murwcpymcmdrrorcjrdhgvrwckh
.gcrdrv.gkdscwxrmmrwcshfgvc .gchlcmh rip.kcgrxohfmc.gwclrorxymp
.uur.x.gerncWfxygvcpymcxrergkcoyvydcUm ykpcp.wcghkyerwckpymcshfgvc .g
mk.gwygvcghkcl.xc.i.s,c.gwcp.wcp.wcp.dlc.c ygwckhcygedfwrcpy cygckpr
ud.khhgchlcgriclxyrgwmcprci.mc .zygvckp.kc hxgygvn

“Ycm.s,”cm.ywckpymcshfgvc .gcygc.ckrgmrcipymurx,c“wywcYcpr.xcshfcm.s
kp.kckprxrcihfdwcjrcx.ygcygcGhxkpf jrxd.gwckh- hxxhi?”

“Yl,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“shfcirxrc.gsiprxrciykpygckprcx.wyfmchlc.cwharg
s.xwmcipydrcYci.mcep.kkygvciykpckprcxrergkcwr.lc.wwrx,cYckpygzcykcym
uhmmyjdrckp.kcshfcwywn”

“Vhhwclhxckprcexhum,”cm.ywckprcshfgvc .gnc“Eh rchorxcprxrciprxrcirce.g
k.dzcbfyrkdsn”


§c2

“Mhcshf’xrcXncUm ykp?”cm.ywckprcshfgvc .g,ciprgckprscp.wc .wrckpryxci.s
khc.cxr hkrcehxgrxchlckprcdhjjs,c.u.xkclxh ckprckpxhgvn

“Kprcm. rn”

“Ycm.s,cw.mpcyk,cshf’xrclxyvpklfddscd.kr,cshfczghincYckhdwcshfckhcjr
prxrc.kckirdorcmp.xuncYk’mcgr.xdsckirdorcu.mkn”

“Shfcixhgvc r,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Yc.xxyorwcprxrcuxreymrdsc.kckirdorncMyger
iprg,cYcp.orcjrrgcmk.gwygvcdyzrcU.kyrgerchgc.c hgf rgkncncncn”

“Dyzrcip.k?”

“Drkcykcvh,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Ykcymcghkcy uhxk.gkn”

“Yc.mzrwcshfckhcir.xc.cuygzcepxsm.gkpr f ncMhcYcehfdwcxrehvgymrcshf,
shfczghin”

“Yc_. _cir.xygvc.cuygzcepxsm.gkpr f ncYcmphfdwcp.orcy .vygrwckp.kckp.k
i.mc.cl.ekckp.kckprc hmkce.mf.dcehfdwcp.xwdscp.orchorxdhhzrwn”

“Kp.kckpygv?”cKprchkprxcv.arwcwymu.x.vygvdsc.kckprcldhx.dcwrehx.kyhgn
“Yckphfvpkcykci.mcmh rczygwchlce.jj.vrncYc r.gkchgrchlckphmrcdykkdr
ip.k-w’shf- .s-e.dd-ykmckp.kcurhudrcwhcir.xcygckpryxcjfkkhg-phdrmn”

“E.xg.kyhg,cuhmmyjds?”

“E.xg.kyhg!cKp.k’mcxyvpkn”

Um ykpcxr horwckprcepxsm.gkpr f c.gwcwxhuurwcykcjrpygwcpymcep.yxncPr
dhhzrwc.kcpymceh u.gyhgcxruxh.eplfddsn

“Ylcshfcp.wcmkfwyrwcjhk.gsc.kcmephhd,ceh x.wr,”cprcm.yw,c“ fepc ymrxs
 yvpkcp.orcjrrgc.orxkrwncYce.gghkcjrvygckhckrddcshfckprcmuyxykf.dc.vhgs
Ycmfllrxrw,ckx.ydygvckpxhfvpckprc rkxhuhdymcjrpygwckp.kcmpxfjn”

Ip.krorxcwrergkcms u.kpsc.gwcxr hxmrckprchkprxc yvpkcp.orcmphigc.k
kprmrcihxwmci.mcmirukc.i.scygckprcmphezcxrmfdk.gkchgc.cvd.gerc.kcpym
i.kepncGhkclhxc.gcygmk.gkcwfxygvckpymcjxyrlcxrkfxgchlcpymckhcDhgwhg
p.wcLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhwcjrrgcfg ygwlfdchlcpymcl.kprx’mcmkrxgcygtfgekyhg
khcpy ckhce.kepckprckirdor-lylksckx.ygcj.ezckhc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmncYl
prc ymmrwcyk,ckprxrcihfdwcjrckprcwrferchlc.cdhkchlcfgudr.m.gkgrmm,
.gwcfgudr.m.gkgrmmcygckprcph rci.mckprchgrckpygvcLxrwwyrci.gkrwckh
.ohywcghi.w.sm;clhx,cdyzrc.cuxfwrgkcehgoyekcygc.cuxymhg,cprcphurwcjs
rqr ud.xscjrp.oyhfxckhcvrkcpymcmrgkrgerchlcy uxymhg rgkc.kcJd.gwygvm
E.mkdrcxrwferwclhxcvhhwcehgwfekn

“VhhwcDhxw!cY’orchgdscvhkc.jhfkclyorc ygfkrmncVhkckhck.dzcbfyezncncncn
.jhfkckpymckpygvncKpymcjfmygrmmncKp.kc.worxkymr rgkchlcshfxmn”

“.p,csrmnc sc.worxkymr rgkncYkcygkrxrmkrwcshf?”

“I.mcykchgckprcdrord?”

“.mmfxrwdsncIrcUm ykpmcwhcghkcwreryorn”

Lxrwwyrcdhhzrwc.kcpy cwhfjklfddsn

“Shfczghi,cshfc.xrg’kc.cjykcdyzrcYcrqurekrwcshf’wcjrn”

“Ygcip.kcxrmurek,”cygbfyxrwcUm ykp,c“whcYcl.ddcmphxkchlckprcywr.d?”

“Ykcymg’kcmhc fepcl.ddygvcmphxkncYk’m--hp,cYcwhg’kczghicncncncIrdd,
srm,cylcshfci.gkckhczghi,cYckphfvpkcshf’wcjrc.ckhfvprxcmurey rg
.dkhvrkprxncYcvhkckprcy uxrmmyhgclxh cshfxc.worxkymr rgkckp.kcshfcirxr
whigc.gwchfkc.gwcxr.wsclhxc.gskpygv,c.gwcshfcdhhzc.mcylcshfcirxrchg
shfxci.sckhc.cv.xwrg-u.xksc.kcJfezygvp. cU.d.ern”

“.p!”cm.ywcUm ykp,crgdyvpkrgrwnc“Ykcymc scehmkf rckp.kcymce.fmygvckprmr
whfjkmcygcshfxc ygwncKpymcymckprcmrehgwcky rckpymc hxgygvckp.kcmfepc.
 ymfgwrxmk.gwygvcp.mcheefxxrwncP.orcghc ymvyoygvmncKprmrckxhfmrxmc .s
mykcirdd,cjfk,cylckprscwh,cykcymcjre.fmrckprcuhezrkmc.xrcr uksn”

“.xrcshfcxr.ddscjxhzr?”

“.mcjxhzrc.mckprcKrgcEh  .gw rgkmn”

“Y’ cp.gvrwcylcYce.gcjrdyrorcykn”

“MfuuhmrcYcjxfmpc scp.kckprcixhgvci.sclhxc.c h rgk?”cm.ywcUm ykp
hjdyvygvdsnc“Ihfdwckp.kcprdu?”

Pymceh u.gyhgcxr .ygrwcmydrgkclhxc.clric h rgkmncYgcmuykrchlckprcl.ek
kp.kcprci.mcygcmhcvxr.kc.cpfxxsc.gwckp.kcrorxsc ygfkrckp.kcu.mmrw
jxhfvpkcgr.xrxckprc h rgkciprgcprcihfdwcjrceh urddrwckhckr.xcpy mrdl
.i.sc.gwc .zrc.cw.mpclhxcU.wwygvkhgcMk.kyhg,cLxrwwyrci.mclygwygvcyk
wyllyefdkckhchurgckprcmfjtrekcprcp.wceh rckprxrckhcwymefmmn

“Dhhzcprxr,”cprcm.ywc.kcdrgvkp,c“Ycmp.ddcp.orckhckxfmkcshf,cw.mpcykn”

“Shfcehfdwcufxmfrcghcjrkkrxcehfxmrn”

“Yk’mcdyzrckpymncY’ ckxsygvckhcx.ymrc.ckphfm.gwcbfywcncncn”

“Ycxrvxrkckp.kcYce.gghkchllrxckhc.wo.gercykckhcshfc smrdlncYcp.or,
ygwrrw,c.dxr.wscjrrgceh urddrwckhcwredygrckhcdrgwc.cvrgkdr .gciph
ed.y rwckhcjrc.gchdwclxyrgwchlc ygrcmhcm .ddc.cmf c.mc.clyorxncJfk
kprxrcymc.cwr.x,chjdyvygvcmhfdchlckprcg. rchlc.dymk.yxc .eWhfv.dd
iphcncncn”

“VhhwcDhxw!cShfcwhg’kckpygzcY’ ckxsygvckhckhfepcshf?”

“Kp.kcy uxrmmyhgcwywcldykckpxhfvpc sc ygwn”

“Hp,cw.mpcyk,cghncGh,cjfk--irdd,c.mcYci.mcm.sygv,cY’ clxyvpklfddsczrrg
khcvrkcphdwchlc.ckphfm.gwcbfywn”

“Mhc. cY,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Kihc ygwmciykpcjfkc.cmygvdrckphfvpkncPhi
whc_shf_cuxhuhmrckhcmk.xkc.jhfkcyk?cLhxc scu.xk,cYc fmkclxrrds
ehglrmmckp.kcYcp.org’kc.cghkyhgncYc. cmkf urwncKprcexscvhrmcxhfgwckpr
ep.gerddrxyrm,c‘Um ykpcymcj.lldrw!’”

“Ycm.s,chdwckpygv,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrcud.ygkyords,c“shfcehfdwg’kck.dzc.cjyk
drmm,cehfdwcshf?cY’orchgdscvhkc.jhfkckihc ygfkrmn”

“Ycjrvcshfxcu.xwhgncUxherrwn”

“Yk’mcmhcw.mprwcwyllyefdkckhczghicphickhcjrvygckprckpygvncYc r.g,cyk’m
.ddc.cjykceh udye.krwckyddcshfcvrkckprcp.gvchlcykncncncncDhhzcprxr,cshf
m.ywcygcshfxc.worxkymr rgkckp.kcshfcp.wcghchjtrekyhgckhcexy rn”

Um ykpcehgmywrxrwckprcuhygkn

“Iykpygcxr.mhg--.gwcylcfgwrkrekrw--Ycmrrcghchjtrekyhgckhckih-urgghxkp
hlcexy rn”

“Irdd,cdhhzcprxrcncncncdhhzcprxrcncncncIrdd,cdhhzcprxr,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,
“iyddcshfcmkr.dc sc.fgk’mcwy. hgwcgrezd.er?”

Um ykpcud.erwcpymc hghedrcygcpymcrsrc.gwcjrgkcvx.ordsckhi.xwcpym
eh u.gyhgn

“Mkr.dcshfxc.fgk’mcgrezd.er?”cprcm.ywcygwfdvrgkdsn

“Srmn”

“Shfcwhcghkckpygzcmprc yvpkcehgmywrxcykc.cdyjrxksclxh chgrckhciph cmpr
p.mcgrorxcjrrgcygkxhwferw?”

Ip.kcLxrwwyrc yvpkcp.orcxrudyrwckhckpymcurxkygrgkcbfrmkyhgciyddcgrorx
jrczghig,clhxc.kckpymc h rgk,cdhhzygvcgrxohfmdsc.kcpymci.kepclhxckpr
kirgkyrkpcky r,cprchjmrxorwckp.kckprcp.gwmcp.wcu.mmrwckprcp.dl-phfxc.gw
irxrcirddchgckpryxci.sckhckirgks-lyorc ygfkrmckhchgrncPrcjhfgwrwcfu
iykpc.cexsn

“Yc fmkcvh!cYcmp.ddc ymmckp.kcw. grwckx.yg!”

“.gwc r.gipydrcncncnc?”cm.ywcUm ykpn

Kprcl. ydy.xcupx.mr--kprcihxwmc“.gwc r.gipydr”cp.wcheefxxrwc.kcdr.mk
hgercygcrorxsclyd cLxrwwyrcp.wcrorxcmrrg--p.wckprcrllrekchlcixrgepygv
kprcd.kkrx’mc ygwcj.ezckhckprcmfjtrekcygcp.gwclhxc.c h rgkncLxrwwyrci.m
ghkc.cedr.x-kpygzygvcshfgvc .g,cjfkcrorgcprcehfdwcmrrckp.kcprcp.wcdrlk
kprcgrvhky.kyhgmcmfmurgwrwc.kc.corxscm.kyml.ekhxscuhygkncGrorxkprdrmm,
prcp.wckhce.kepckp.kckirdor-lylksn

“Ixykrc.gwckrddc rcip.kcshfckpygzc.jhfkcyk,”cu.gkrwcLxrwwyr,cmzy  ygv
kpxhfvpckprcdhjjscdyzrc.cmi.ddhin

“Shfcp.orcfglhxkfg.krdsch ykkrwckhcdr.orc.cg. rc.gwc.wwxrmm,”cUm ykp
uhygkrwchfk,clhddhiygvcpy c.kc.gcr.mscthv-kxhkn

Ygcmuykrchlcpymcpfxxs,c.cuxfwrgercjhxgchlc fepc hoyr-mrrygvcxrmkx.ygrw
Lxrwwyrclxh cmfuudsygvckprcyglhx .kyhgc.mzrwclhxncVyorc.i.scshfxcg. r
.gwc.wwxrmmc.gwcshfcgrorxczgricip.kc yvpkcp.uurgn

“Y’ddcixykrckhcshf,”cprcexyrw,cx.eygvclhxc.ce.jn

“Ycmp.ddcehfgkckprc ygfkrm,”cm.ywcUm ykpcehfxkrhfmdsn

“Wxyorcdyzrcjd.arm!”cm.ywcLxrwwyrckhckprcep.fllrfxn

“Iprxr?”cygbfyxrwckprc .g,cghkcfgxr.mhg.jdsn

“Rp?cHp,cU.wwygvkhgn”

Kprce.jcipyxdrwchll,c.gwcUm ykp,cudr.m.gkdscehgmeyhfmchlc.c hxgygv
ghkcydd-murgk,cv.arwc.lkrxcykcurgmyordsclhxc.c h rgkncKprg,ciykp
kprclrrdygvckp.kckprc.fkphxykyrmchlcEhdgrscP.kepchxcmh rczygwxrw
rmk.jdymp rgkcp.wcjrrgcrqkx.hxwyg.xydscgrvdyvrgk,cprcurx ykkrwcpymc ygw
khckfxgciykpcvrgy.dc.gkyeyu.kyhgcygckprcwyxrekyhgchlcdfgepncLhx,ckphfvp
prcp.wcerdrjx.krwcpymclyxmkcw.schlcr .geyu.kyhgclxh cJyddygvmv.krcLymp
 .xzrkcjscxymygvcd.krc.gwcjxr.zl.mkygvcd.krx,cprcp.wcjreh rc.i.xrcjs
ghichlckp.kcghkcfgudr.m.gkcr ukygrmmcipyepcymckprcmydrgkcdfgeprhg-vhgv
hlckprcmhfdn


§c3

Kprc yghxcuxhjdr cghicuxrmrgkrwcykmrdlchlciprxrckhcdfgep;c.gwciykp
me.xerdsc.c h rgk’mcehgmywrx.kyhgcprcwym ymmrwckphmrcd.xvr,cghyms,c.gw
jfmkdygvcxrmk.fx.gkmcipyepcdyrcgr.xcUyee.wyddscEyxefmnc.lkrxc.c hxgygv
murgkciykpcRorcP.ddyw.sc.gwckprcshfgvc .gciphci.mcvhygvc.jhfkckprcud.er
.mzygvcurhudrckhcmkr.dcpymc.fgk’mcgrezd.er,cykci.mcy urx.kyorckp.kcpr
mrdrekcmh rcud.erciprxrcprcehfdwcmykc.gwckpygzcbfyrkdsnc.gsclhhwchl
ipyepcprcu.xkhhzc fmkcjrcehgmf rwcygce.d ,crorgcedhymkx.dcmfxxhfgwygvm,
fguhddfkrwcjsckprcuxrmrgerchlc.clyxmkcoyhdygciphckyrwcpy mrdlcygkh
zghkmc.gwc.gchxeprmkx.cygciphmrcdrqyehgckprxrci.mcghcmfepcihxwc.m
_uy.gh_ncHgrchlcpymcedfjmcmrr rwcygwye.krwn

Ygckprcw.smchlcpymcuxhmurxyks,cUm ykp’mcl.kprx,c.gcrgkpfmy.mkye
edfj .g,cp.wcrgxhddrwcpymcmhg’mcg. rchgckprcdymkchlcmrorx.d
ygmkykfkyhgm:c.gwcghi,c.dkphfvpckprcdr.gcsr.xmcp.wc.xxyorw,cpr
i.mcmkyddc.c r jrxchlcmyq,c.gwcihfdwcehgkygfrckhcjrc.c r jrxckydd
kprcjrvyggygvchlckprcgricsr.xc.gwckprcehgmrbfrgkce.ddclhxclxrmp
mfjmexyukyhgmncKprmrcedfjmcx.gvrwclxh ckprcWxhgrm,clx.gzdsclxyohdhfm,
khckprcMrgyhxcEhgmrxo.kyor,cmhdywdscihxkpsnc.d hmkcy  rwy.krdscUm ykp
wreywrwckp.kclhxcmfepc.c hhwc.mci.mcfuhgcpy c.kckprc h rgk,ckprcd.kkrx
 yvpkcp.orcjrrgcmurey.ddscehgmkxfekrwn

.gsjhwscl. ydy.xciykpckprcygkrxyhxchlckprcMrgyhxcEhgmrxo.kyorcEdfj
ihfdwcp.orc.uud.fwrwcpymcephyerncYgckprciphdrchlcDhgwhgcghcjrkkrx
p.orgcehfdwcp.orcjrrgclhfgwcjschgrcwrmyxhfmchlcmk.sygvcpymcygkrxyhx
iykpcrqerddrgkds-ehhzrwclhhwcipydrcu.mmygvcpymcmhfdcfgwrxc.cdrymfxrds
rq. yg.kyhgncKprsclrwcshfcirddc.kckprcWxhgrm,ckhh,cghcwhfjk:cjfk
kprxrcShfkpcprdwce.xgyo.d,c.gwckprckphfvpklfdc .g,crq. ygygvcpym
mhfd,ci.mc.ukc.kc.gsc h rgkckhcp.orcpymc rwyk.kyhgmcjxhzrgcygcfuhg
jsc.cepfgzchlcjxr.w,cwrqkrxhfmdsckpxhigcjscmh rcjxyvpkcmuyxykc.kc.g
.wthygygvck.jdrncGhcphxxhxchlckp.kcwrmexyukyhgcehfdwcuhmmyjdscheefx
.kckprcMrgyhxcEhgmrxo.kyorncKprcMrgyhxcEhgmrxo.kyorcp.mcmyqckphfm.gw
hgrcpfgwxrwc.gwcrdrorgc r jrxmncMh rchlckprcmyqckphfm.gwchgrcpfgwxrw
.gwcrdrorgc.xrc hxrcxrmurek.jdrckp.gckprchkprxm,cjfkckprsc.xrc.dd
xrmurek.jdr--iprkprxckprscjrcgf jrxrwc. hgvckprchdwrmkcygp.jyk.gkmcdyzr
kprcR.xdchlcR mihxkp,ciphcthygrwc.mc.cehfgkxsc r jrxcygc1888,chxc.xr
. hgvckprcxrergkcexr.kyhgmchlckprcd.mkcrdrekyhgchlce.gwyw.krmncKprsc.xr
j.dw,cxrorxrgwc rg,ciphcdhhzc.mcylckprsc.xrchgckpryxci.sckhckprcEyksckh
uxrmywrc.kcwyxrekhxm’c rrkygvmchxcp.orcwxhuurwcygc.lkrxcehglrxxygvciykp
kprcUxy rc ygymkrxc.kcWhigygvcMkxrrkc.mckhckprcuxhmurekmc.kckprceh ygv
js-rdrekyhgcygckprcDykkdrcI.jmdrscWyoymyhgn

Iykpckprcbfyrkcwyvgykscipyepc.khgrwclhxcpymcd.ezcygcsr.xmcygckpym
mkxhgvphdwchlc rddhicihxkp,cUm ykpc hfgkrwckprcmkrum,cu.mmrwckpxhfvp
kprcwhhxmcipyepcirxrchjdyvygvdscldfgvchurgclhxcpy cjsckihcfgylhx rw
wyvgyk.xyrm,c.gwc .wrcpymci.sckhckprcehllrr-xhh ncPrxr,cp.oygv
mrdrekrwc.ck.jdrcygckprc ywwdrchlckprcxhh c.gwchxwrxrwc.cmy udrc.gw
.uurkymygvcdfgep,cprcv.orcpy mrdlcfuckhckphfvpkmchlcRorcP.ddyw.snc.m
prcp.wcehglrmmrwckhcpymcshfgvclxyrgwc xncI.dwrxiyez,cmprcp.wc .wr
.cuhirxlfdcy uxrmmyhgcfuhgcpy ncPrci.mckr.xygvcpy mrdlclxh cpym
w.s-wxr. mcygchxwrxckhcixrmkdrciykpc.c fkkhgcephu,ciprgc.clhxryvgcjhws
mphkcygkhcpymchxjykc.gwcjdfgwrxrwcpr.oydsc.v.ygmkckprck.jdrncDhhzygv
fu,cprcurxeryorwc.cdhgv,ckpyg,crdwrxdscvrgkdr .gchlcudr.m.gkdsco.vfr
.murek,ciphcy  rwy.krdscjrv.gckhc.uhdhvymrn

“ scwr.xcmyx,cYc. crqkxr rdscmhxxsncYckxfmkcYcp.orce.fmrwcghcw. .vrn”

“Ghgrcip.krorx,”cxrudyrwcUm ykpcehfxkrhfmdsn

“Kprcl.ekcym,cYcp.orc ymd.ywc scvd.mmrmncJdygwc.mc.cj.kciykphfkckpr n
E.g’kcmrrciprxrcY’ cvhygvn”

.cvdhh s-dhhzygvcshfgvc .gciykpcdhgvc.gwcwymhxwrxrwcp.yx,ciphcmkhhwc.k
kprcrdwrxdscvrgkdr .g’mcrdjhi,cehfvprwcmfvvrmkyordsncPrci.mcmpflldygv
xrmkdrmmds,c.gwc.uur.xrwckhcjrc.gqyhfmckhcedhmrckprcruymhwrc.gwc hor
hgnc.cshfgvc .g,croywrgkds,chlcpyvpds-mkxfgvckr urx. rgkncPrcp.wc.
mfddrgc.yxn

Kprcrdwrxdscvrgkdr .gcmk.xkrwco.vfrdsc.kckprcmhfgwchlckprcehfvpn

“Rp?”cprcm.yw,c.mcylcygc.gmirxckhcmh rcmuhzrgcxr .xznc“Hp,csrm,cbfykr
mh,cbfykrcmh,c scwr.xclrddhinc fmkg’kcmkhucprxrcep.kkygv,crp?cP.wckh
.uhdhvymr,ckphfvpncGr.xdscfumrkckpymcvrgkdr .g’mck.jdrncE.g’kcmrrciprxr
Y’ cvhygvciykphfkc scvd.mmrmncJdygwc.mc.cj.kncRp?cIp.k?cBfykrcmh,cbfykr
mhn”

Prc. jdrwchll,cwhwwrxygvceprrxlfdds,cipydrcpymceh u.gyhgcmkydd
uxrmrxorwcpymcdhhzchlcmfdzsc.dhhlgrmmncUm ykpcv.arwc.lkrxckpr ciykp
ygkrxrmkn

“E.gcshfckrddc r,”cprc.mzrwchlckprci.ykrx,ciphci.mcx.ddsygvcxhfgwciykp
kprcuhk.khrm,c“iphckp.kci.m?”

Kprci.ykrxclhddhirwcpymcvd.gern

“Whg’kczghiciphckprcshfgvcvrgkdr .gcym,cmyxncVfrmkcprxr,cYcl.gesncKpr
hdwcvrgkdr .gcymckprcR.xdchlcR mihxkpncDyormcygckprcehfgkxsc.gwcwhrmg’k
hlkrgceh rckhckprcedfjncOrxsc.jmrgk- ygwrwcvrgkdr .g,ckprsckrddc rn
Uhk.khrm,cmyx?”

“Kp.gzcshf,”cm.ywcUm ykpn

Kprci.ykrxcwxylkrwc.i.s,c.gwcxrkfxgrwn

“Ycp.orcjrrgcdhhzygvc.kckprcvfrmk-jhhz,cmyxncKprcg. rchlckprcvrgkdr .g
dfgepygvciykpcDhxwcR mihxkpcymc xncX.dmkhgc eKhwwn”

“Kp.gzcshfcorxsc fepncYc. cmhxxscshfcp.wckprckxhfjdrn”

“Ghckxhfjdr,cmyxn”

Um ykpcxrmf rwcpymc r.dn


§c4

Kprcmfddrgcwr r.ghfxchlckprcshfgvc .gciphcp.wc.eeh u.gyrwcDhxwcR mihxkp
kpxhfvpckprcehllrr-xhh c.eefx.krdscxrldrekrwckprcr hkyhgmcipyepcirxr
orqygvcpymckxhfjdrwcmhfdncX.dmkhgc eKhww,ckprcuhirxlfdcshfgvcmygvrx
hlcM.mz.khhgc(“Udf jmckprcwrukpmchlcpf .gcr hkyhgc.gwcmkxyzrmc.cgri
ghkr”--_ hgkxr.dcMk.x_nc“Orxscxr.w.jdr”--_Yumyd.gkycPrx.dw_),cp.wcghk
rgthsrwcpymcdfgepncKprcudr.mygvcmrgmrchlcy uhxk.gercygwferwcjsckprcl.ek
kp.kclhxckprclyxmkcky rcygcpymcdylrcprci.mcphj-ghjjygvciykpc.cvrgfygr
r.xdcp.wcvyorgci.sc.lkrxckrgc ygfkrmchlcpymcphmk’mcmheyrksckhc.c ygvdrw
wrmu.yxc.gwcyxxyk.kyhgcipyepcp.wcvxhigcmkr.wydscwrrurxc.mckprc r.d
uxherrwrwncYkcymcghkckhhc fepckhcm.sckp.kcjsckprcky rckprclympcehfxmr
.xxyorwcykcihfdwcp.orcjrrgc.cxrdyrlckhc xnc eKhww’mclrrdygvmcylcpr
ehfdwcp.orck.zrgcfuckprcjfkkrx-wympc.gwcj.gvrwcykcwhig,cjfkkrxc.gwc.dd,
hgcpymcdhxwmpyu’mcj.dwcpr.wn

.ckr urx. rgk.dcshfgvc .gci.mcX.dmkhgc eKhwwncPrcdyzrwckhcjrckpr
ergkxrchlckprcuyekfxr,ckhcwhckprck.dzygv,ckhc.yxcpymcoyrim,ckhcjr
dymkrgrwckhcxrmureklfddsc.gwciykpcygkrxrmkcjsc.cmfj ymmyorc.fwyrgern
.kckprc r.dcipyepcp.wctfmkcehgedfwrwcghgrchlckprmrcxr.mhg.jdrcwr .gwm
p.wcjrrgcurx ykkrwckhcpy ncLxh ckprcorxscjrvyggygv,cDhxwcR mihxkp
p.wcehdd.xrwckprcehgorxm.kyhgc.gwcprdwcykciykpc.cvrgkdr,cjdr.kygv
urxmymkrgesc.v.ygmkc.ddc.mm.fdkmncLyorcky rmcp.wc xnc eKhwwc.d hmk
mfeerrwrwcygcd.fgepygvchgrchlcpymcjrmkcruyvx. m,chgdsckhcmrrcykcmiruk
.i.schgckprckhmmygvcldhhwchlc.cdrekfxrchgcphddsphezmnc.kckprcmyqkp
.kkr ukcprcp.wc .g.vrwckhcvrkcykchfk,ceh udrkrc.gwcmu.xzdygv,c.gwckpr
hdwc.mmchuuhmykrcpy cp.wck.zrgcykcygcpymcmkxywrcdyzrc.cpfxwdrc.gwcvhgr
v.ddhuygvchllc.jhfkckprc rgk.dc.gwc hx.dcwrlrekmchlc.cexr.kfxrcg. rw
.gvfmc e.ddymkrx,ciphc.uur.xrwckhcjrcpymcpr.wcv.xwrgrxchxcmh rkpygvchl
kprczygwncKprcdfgeprhg,ckphfvpcprci.mc.cpr.xksclrrwrxc.gwc.mc.cxfdr
.uuxrey.kyorchlcvhhwcehhzygv,cp.wckfxgrwckhc.mprmcygc xnc eKhww’m
 hfkp,c.gwcykci.mc.cmhfxrwc.gwcep.lygvcMygvrxchlcM.mz.khhgciphcwxhuurw
mehidygvdscygkhc.gc.x -ep.yxcjsckprciygwhichlckprcdhirxcm hzygv-xhh c.
lric h rgkmcd.krxncIrcygkxhwfercX.dmkhgc eKhwwckhckprcxr.wrx,cygcmphxk,
.kc.c h rgkciprgcprcymcorxscgr.xckprcjxr.zygv-uhygknc.cdykkdrc hxr
uxhohe.kyhg,c.gwcvhhwgrmmczghimcip.kcprc .scghkcwhncLhxckprcky rcjrygv,
prcymc rxrdscdr.gygvcj.ezcygcpymcep.yxc.gwcmehidygvncPrcp.mc.cl.ygk
phur,cphirorx,ckp.kc.ceyv.xc .scjxygvcmh rcmhxkchlcxrdyrl,c.gwcprcym
i.ykygvclhxchgrckhcjrchxwrxrwclhxcpy n

KprcR.xdchlcR mihxkpcwywcghkcmrrckprcmehidncPrcp.wcghkcxr.ddscmrrg
 xnc eKhwwc.kc.ddclxh ckprc h rgkchlcpymc.xxyo.dc.kckprcedfj,ciprg
mh rjhws,ciphcmhfgwrwcdyzrckprcpr.wcuhxkrx,cp.wcyglhx rwcpy ckp.kc.
vrgkdr .gci.mci.ykygvckhcmrrcpy c.gwcp.wcdrwcpy cfuckhc.cmp.urdrmm
jdfxcipyepcp.wcygkxhwferwcykmrdlc.mcpymcrqurekrwcvfrmkncKprcdhmm
hlcpymcvd.mmrmcp.wcp.wcykmcfmf.dcrllrekchgcDhxwcR mihxkp,c .zygv
kprcihxdwc.c ymkscud.ercygcipyepcygwrlygykrchjtrekmcmi. cwy dscdyzr
lympcygc fwwsci.krxncGhkckp.kckpymc .kkrxrwc fep,cmrrygvckp.kcprci.m
ygcDhgwhg,clhxcygcDhgwhgckprxrci.mcgrorxc.gskpygvcihxkpcdhhzygvc.kn
Jrshgwc.co.vfrclrrdygvckp.kcykcihfdwcjrc hxrceh lhxk.jdrchgckprciphdr
ylcprcp.wcpymcvd.mmrm--.clrrdygvctfmkcmkxhgvcrghfvpckhcp.orc .wrcpy 
mrgwchllc.c rmmrgvrxcjhsckhcpymcphkrdckhcpfgkclhxckpr --DhxwcR mihxkp
p.wcghkc.ddhirwcd.ezchlcoymyhgckhcygkrxlrxrciykpcpymcrgths rgkchlckpr
uxherrwygvmn

.gw,cfgdyzrc xnc eKhww,cprcp.wcjrrgcrgthsygvcpy mrdlcorxsc fepnc.
vhhwcdymkrgrx,ckpymcshfgvc .g,cprclrdkncOrxscmhhkpygv,ckprci.scpr
p.wcehgmkykfkrwcpy mrdlc.ciyddygvc.fwyrger,cgrorxcygkrxxfukygvchx
kpxfmkygvcpy mrdlclhxi.xw,c.mcymcmhchlkrgckprcwrudhx.jdrckrgwrgeschl
kprc hwrxgcshfgvc .gncDhxwcR mihxkpci.mcjhfgwckhc.w ykckp.k,c fepc.m
prcp.wcwymdyzrwckprcywr.chlcvhygvckhcDhgwhgckhcuyezcfuckpymcuhrkchx
ip.krorxcprci.m,ckprckpygvcp.wckfxgrwchfkcjrkkrxckp.gcprcp.wcrqurekrwn
Prcdyzrwc xnc eKhww’mcmydrgkcjfkchjoyhfmcygkrxrmkcygcldhirxm,cpymck.eyk
jfkci.x -pr.xkrwcms u.kpscygckprc .kkrxchlc.gvfmc e.ddymkrxncPrci.m
vd.wcprci.mceh ygvckhcJd.gwygvmncYkcihfdwcjrc.vxrr.jdrckhcehgwfekcpy 
urxmhg.ddsckpxhfvpckprcv.xwrgm,ckhcygkxhwfercpy ckhc.gvfmc e.ddymkrx
.gwc.ddhicpy ckhcudf jclhxcpy mrdlckprcjd.ezc.jsmmrmchlckp.kchfke.mk’m
 rgk.dcuxhermmrmn

 r.gipydr,cprcp.wclhxvhkkrgc.ddc.jhfkchxwrxygvckp.kceyv.xcncncn

“Ygcd.xvrcv.xwrgmciprxrc. udrcmu.ercurx ykm,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp,
wxhuuygvcehmydscygkhcpymcep.yxc.gwck.zygvcfuckprcehgorxm.kyhgc.kckpr
uhygkciprxrcykcp.wcjrrgcjxhzrgchll,c“ghkpygvcymc hxrcwrmyx.jdrckp.g
kp.kckprxrcmphfdwcjrcmh rcud.erm,chxchgrc.kcdr.mk,chlcbfyrkcvxrrgrxs
.dhgr,ciykphfkc.gscldhirxmcip.krorxncYcmrrckp.kcshfc.vxrrciykpc rn”

 xnc eKhwwcp.wcghkc.vxrrwciykpcpy ncKprcvxfgkcipyepcDhxwcR mihxkpcp.w
k.zrgclhxc.gcrqed. .kyhgchlcx.ukfxhfmc.wprmyhgckhcpymcmrgky rgkmcp.w
jrrgc rxrdsc.cmhxkchlcjfjjdrchlcmhfgwcxymygvclxh ckprckhxkfxrwcwrukpm
hlc xnc eKhww’mcmfllrxygvcmhfd--kprcexs,c.mckprcuhrkcjr.fkylfddscufkm
yk,c“hlcmh rcmkxhgvcm hzrxcygcpymc.vhgsn”cKprcwrmyxrckhcm hzrcp.wcghi
vxyuurwc xnc eKhww’mcorxscoyk.dm;cjfk,c.mcmh rcdygvrxygvcxr .ygmchlckpr
mhey.dcmrgmrczrukcpy clxh c.mzygvcuhygk-jd.gzclhxckprceyv.xclhxcipyep
prcsr.xgrw,cprcmhfvpkcygcpymc ygwclhxc.ci.schlc.uuxh.epygvckprcmfjtrek
hjdybfrdsn

“Ygcghchkprxci.s,”cuxherrwrwcDhxwcR mihxkp,c“e.gckprcjxyddy.geschl
ldhirxmcjrcmhczrrgdscrgthsrwc.mcjscncncn”

“K.dzygvchlcldhirxm,”cm.ywc xnc eKhww,c“ykcymc.cl.ek,cYcjrdyror,ckp.k
khj.eehcm hzrcymcvhhwclhxcxhmrmn”

“ncncnc.mcjscu.eygvclhxc.cky r,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp,c“ygcmh rcehhd,
vxrrgc.ddrs,c.gwckprgcu.mmygvchgckhckprcldhirxscud.ermncYkcymcu.xkds,
ghcwhfjk,ckprcfgehgmeyhfmcihxzygvchfkchlcmh rchukye.dcd.i,ckpr
rqud.g.kyhgchlcipyepcygcrorxsw.scd.gvf.vrcymckp.kckprcrsrcncncn”

“Mh rcurhudrcm.sckp.kcm hzygvcymcj.wclhxckprcrsrmncYcwhg’kc.vxrrciykp
kpr ,”cm.ywc xnc eKhwwci.x dsn

“ncncncjrygv,c.mcykcirxr,cm.kfx.krwciykpckprcvxrrgcehdhfx,cymckprc hxr
.kkfgrwckhcxreryorckprchkprxm,crmurey.ddsckprcxrwmncYkci.mcuxhj.jds
mh rcmfepcehgmywrx.kyhgckp.kcygldfrgerwckprcwrmyvgrxmchlckprc .gschdw
v.xwrgmchlcRgvd.gwcygcwrohkygvcmhc fepc.kkrgkyhgckhckprcefdkchlckprcsri
kxrrncIprgcshfceh rckhcJd.gwygvm,c scwr.xclrddhi,cYciyddcmphicshfchfx
erdrjx.krwcsric.ddrsnc.gw,ciprgcshfcmrrcyk,cshfciyddc.vxrrckp.kcYci.m
xyvpkcygck.zygvckprcmk.gwcYcwywc.v.ygmkc.gvfmc e.ddymkrx’mcurxgyeyhfm
oyrimn”

“Yci.mcdfgepygvcygc.cedfjcsrmkrxw.s,”cm.ywc xnc eKhww,ciykpckpr
mudrgwywc eKhwwcwhvvrwgrmm,c“iprxrckprscp.wcghc .keprmchgckprck.jdrmcyg
kprcm hzygv-xhh ncHgdscmuyddmncYkc .wrcykcorxscygehgorgyrgkcncncn”

“.gvfmc e.ddymkrx,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp,c“ymc.cuxhlrmmyhg.dcv.xwrgrxn
Ycgrrwcm.scghc hxrncShfczghic.mcirddc.mcYcwh,c scwr.xclrddhi,cip.k
uxhlrmmyhg.dcv.xwrgrxmc.xrcdyzrciprgcykcymc.cbfrmkyhgchlc hmmcncncn”

“Ip.kcykc r.gkci.mckp.k,ciprgcshfci.gkrwckhcdyvpkcshfxc.lkrx-dfgeprhg
eyv.x,cshfcp.wckhcvrkcfuc.gwcvhckhc.cv.m-jfxgrxchgc.cjx.ezrkc.kckpr
hkprxcrgwchlckprcxhh cncncn”

“ hmm,clhxcmh rchjmefxrcxr.mhg,c.uur.xmckhcyglfxy.krckpr ncYkcxhfmrm
kpryxcj.mrmkcu.mmyhgmncG.kfxrcygkrgwrwc.csric.ddrsckhcjrce.xurkrwciykp
.c hmmscvxhikpncKprc hmmscu.kpcygckprcsric.ddrsc.kcJd.gwygvmcymcyg
kxfrcxrd.kyhgclhxcehdhfxckhckprckxrrmc.gwcvx.mmscrwvrm;csrkciyddcshf
exrwykcykckp.kckp.kcmhfddrmmcwymvx.erckhcMehkd.gwc.ekf.ddsciymprwckh
vxfjcykc.ddcfuc.gwcp.orc.cxhddrwcvx.ordcu.kpcmk.xygvcfuclxh cjrgr.kp
kphmrcy  r hxy.dckxrrm!cYcp.orc.dxr.wsckhdwcshfcphicYci.mceh urddrw
khcvyorcygckhcpy cygckprc .kkrxchlckprcphddsphezm--pr.wcv.xwrgrxm
hlc.gsc.jydyksc.kc.ddc.xrcx.xrcygckprmrcw.smc.gwchgrcp.mckhc .zr
ehgermmyhgm--jfkckpymci.mckhhc fepncYci.mcurxlrekdsclxyrgwdsc.gwceyoyd
.jhfkcyknc‘Erxk.ygds,c e.ddymkrx,’cYcm.yw,c‘shfc .scp.orcshfxcvx.ord
u.kpcylcshfciympcykncYc .zrcjfkchgrcuxhoymh,ckp.kcshfcehgmkxfekcykchorx
 scwr.wcjhwsncHgdsciprgcYc. cirdkrxygvcygc scjdhhwchgckprckpxrmphdwchl
kp.kcsric.ddrscmp.ddcshfcwymkfxjchgrcygepchlc scjr.fkylfdc hmmncKxsckh
xr r jrx,c e.ddymkrx,’cYcm.yw,cmkyddcbfykrcehxwy.dds,c‘kp.kcshfc.xrcghk
d.sygvchfkc.cxrexr.kyhgcvxhfgwcygc.cVd.mvhicmfjfxj--shfc.xrcuxhuhmygv
khc .zrc.gcrsrmhxrchlcip.kcymcuhmmyjdsckprc hmkcjr.fkylfdcghhzcygchgr
hlckprclygrmkc.gwchdwrmkcv.xwrgmcygckprcFgykrwcZygvwh n’cPrc .wrcmh r
xrufdmyorcMehkepcghymrc.kckprcj.ezchlcpymckpxh.k,c.gwckprxrckprc .kkrx
xrmkmncncncncDrkc r,c scwr.xclrddhi,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp,cixykpygvcwhig
ygkhckprcwrukpmchlcpymcep.yxcdyzrc.gc.xymkhex.kyecmg.zrcfgkydcpymcmuygr
xrmkrwcmgfvdsc.v.ygmkckprcdr.kprx,c“drkc rcwrmexyjrclhxcshfckprcSri
.ddrsc.kcJd.gwygvmncRgkrxygvclxh ckprcirmkcncncn”

 xnc eKhwwcv.orcfuckprcmkxfvvdrc.gwcm.gzcj.ez,clyddrwciykpcjd.ezc.gw
wrdrkrxyhfmckphfvpkm,cygkhc.ckhj.eeh-drmmcprddncKprcm hzygv-xhh ci.m
lfddcghi,c.gwchgc.ddcmywrmclx.vx.gkcjdfrcedhfwmc.xhmrclxh ckprcdykkdr
vxhfumchlcmrxyhfmckpygzrxmciphcirxrcwymefmmygvcip.kcVd.wmkhgrcp.wcm.yw
ygc’78nc xnc eKhww,c.mcprci.keprwckpr ,cp.wcmh rkpygvchlckprcr hkyhgm
hlckprcUrxycrqedfwrwclxh cU.x.wymrncMhcxrwferwci.mcprcjsckpymcky rckp.k
prcihfdwcp.orc.eerukrwcvx.krlfddsckprc r.grmkcmkx.yvpk-efkceyv.xrkkrcyg
ud.erchlckprcEhxhg.chlcpymcwxr. mncJfkcrorgckpymcuhhxcmfjmkykfkrclhx
m hzygvci.mcwrgyrwcpy n

DhxwcR mihxkpcwxhgrwchgncP.oygvc.uuxh.eprwclxh ckprcirmk,cprci.mcghi
irddcygmywrckprcsric.ddrsn

“ .gschlckprcsrim,cghcwhfjk,cp.orck.zrgclhx mchkprxckp.gckphmrckp.k
irxrchxyvyg.ddscwrmyvgrwncMh rc.xrcdyzrckfxgrwceprmm rg;cmh rc yvpk
jrck.zrgclhxc.w.uk.kyhgmchlcpf .gclyvfxrm,clhxchgrce.gckx.ercprxr
.gwckprxrc.cp.k-ehorxrwcpr.wchxc.cmuxr.wygvcurkkyeh.kncMh rcxymrcyg
mhdywcjdhezmciykpcxhfgwrwcxhhlc.gwcmkr drmmc fmpxhh clygy.dncKprmr
p.orclhxckprc hmkcu.xkc.xeprwcxrermmrm,clhx ygvc.xjhfxmncHgrchlckpr
k.ddrmkcncncncRp?cIp.k?”

DhxwcR mihxkpcjdygzrwco.vfrdsc.kckprci.ykrxciphcp.wcmywdrwcfunc.
 h rgkcjrlhxrcprcp.wcjrrgc.cpfgwxrwchwwc ydrmc.i.s,c.gwcykci.mcghk
r.msckhc.wtfmkcpymc ygwcy  rwy.krdsckhckprcl.ekckp.kcprci.mcygckpr
m hzygv-xhh chlckprcMrgyhxcEhgmrxo.kyorcEdfjn

“Rp?cIp.k?”

“.c rmmrgvrxcjhscp.mctfmkc.xxyorwciykpckprmr,cshfxcdhxwmpyun”

DhxwcR mihxkpcurrxrwcygc.cw.arwc.gwcihhddsc .ggrxc.kckprcuxhllrxrw
murek.edr-e.mrncYgkrddyvrgercxrkfxgrwckhcpy n

“Hp,ckp.gzcshfncKp.gzcshfcorxsc fepnc scvd.mmrmncE.uyk.d!cKp.gzcshf,
kp.gzcshf,ckp.gzcshfn”

Prcxr horwckprcvd.mmrmclxh ckpryxce.mrc.gwcud.erwckpr chgcpymcghmr:
.gwcygmk.gkdsckprcihxdwcmux.gvcygkhcjrygvcjrlhxrcpymcrsrm,cmp.xuc.gw
irdd-wrlygrwncYkci.mcdyzrceh ygvchfkchlc.clhvn

“Wr.xc r!”cprcm.ywcygc.cmrdl-ehgvx.kfd.khxscohyern

Kprgc.jxfukdscprcm.kcfu,ckx.gmlyqrwncKprcdhirxcm hzygv-xhh c.kckpr
MrgyhxcEhgmrxo.kyorcEdfjcymchgckprcmkxrrkcdrord,c.gwcDhxwcR mihxkp’m
ep.yxcl.erwckprcd.xvrciygwhincKpxhfvpckpym,c.mcprcx.ymrwcpymcghi
murek.edrwcl.er,cprcurxeryorwclhxckprclyxmkcky rckp.kc. hgvckprcxhichl
mphumchgckprchuuhmykrcmywrchlckprcxh.wci.mc.ct.fgkscgricldhxymk’mncYk
p.wcghkcjrrgckprxrc.kcpymcd.mkcoymykckhckprc rkxhuhdym,c.gwcprcmk.xrw
.kcykcx.ukds,c.mc.cm .ddcjhscihfdwcmk.xrc.kc.cm.ferxchlcyer-exr. cyl
mfepc.ckpygvcp.wcmfwwrgdscwrmergwrwclxh cpr.orgcy  rwy.krdscygclxhgkchl
py nc.gw,cdyzrc.cm .ddcjhscygcmfepc.cmykf.kyhg,cprcp.wcrsrmclhxcghkpygv
rdmrncPrcwywcghkcdhhzc.kcpymcvfrmkncYgwrrw,cygckprcremk.mschlcpym
wymehorxs,cprcp.wceh udrkrdsclhxvhkkrgckp.kcprcp.wc.cvfrmkn

.gscldhirxcmphu,cphirorxcm .dd,ci.mc.c .vgrkckhckprcR.xdchlcR mihxkpn
.gwckpymci.mc.cu.xkyefd.xdscmu.eyhfmc.gwc.xxrmkygvcldhirxcmphuncYkm
iygwhici.mcv.sciykpcmf  rxcjdhh mnc.gwcDhxwcR mihxkp,cmdhidscxymygv
lxh cpymcep.yx,c“uhygkrw”cdyzrc.cwhvckp.kcmrrmc.cupr.m.gkn

“Jdrmmc scmhfd!”cprc fx fxrwn

Ylckprcxr.wrxcp.mclhddhirwciykpckprcedhmrgrmmcipyepcykcwrmrxormckpr
rqkxr rdscrgkrxk.ygygvcehgorxm.kyhgchlcpymcdhxwmpyucxrehxwrwcygckpr
d.mkclricu.x.vx.upm,cprciyddcp.orcghkrwc.cxrlrxrgerckhcphddsphezmncDhxw
R mihxkpcp.wcorgkyd.krwckprcphddsphezcbfrmkyhgc.kcmh rcdykkdrcdrgvkp
ipydrcmr.krwc.kckprcdfgeprhgck.jdrncJfk,c.mcircp.wcghkckprcvhhwclhxkfgr
khcjrcuxrmrgkc.kckp.kcrgths.jdrc r.d,c.cjxyrlcxémf échlckprcmykf.kyhg
 fmkcghicjrcvyorgc.gwckprcygkrddyvrgkcufjdyec.ddhirwckhctfwvrcjrkirrg
pymcdhxwmpyuc.gwckprcfgeh uxh ymygvc e.ddymkrxn

Jxyrlds,ckprcuhmykyhgci.mckpymnc .gscpr.wcv.xwrgrxmc.xrc.ukckhcl.ohfx
ygckprcphddsphezclhx mckp.kchgrce.gghkcjfkckpygzcp.orclhxckpryxc.y 
.gcywr.dckp.kcymc.cl.dmrc.gwcfgihxkpschgrnc.gvfmc e.ddymkrx,cedygvygv
khckprcpr.w-v.xwrgrxrmbfrcmk.gw.xwchlcjr.fksc.gwcehxxrekclhx ,cihfdw
ghkcm.gekyhgckprciywrchfkrxcurk.dncKprcldhirx,cmhc.gvfmcprdw,c fmk
jrcorxsckyvpkc.gwcorxscxhfgw,cdyzrckprcfgylhx chlc.c .thx-vrgrx.dn
DhxwcR mihxkp,chgckprchkprxcp.gw,cehgmywrxrwckpymcoyricg.xxhi,c.gw
ed.y rwckprcdyjrxksckhckxsclhxckprcorxscpyvprmkc.gwckxfrmkcjr.fks
ygcphddsphezmncKprcdhhmrds-lhdwrwcyggrxcurk.dmchlckprcphddsphez,cpr
ehgmywrxrw,cygoykrwc.cihgwrxlfdcud.sc.gwcjxyddy.geschlcehdhfx;cipydr
kprciywrchfkrxcurk.d,ciykpcykmcmdyvpkdsci.orwcmfxl.erc.gwcvrgkds
lxyddrwcrwvrcncncncirdd,c.gsi.s,cDhxwcR mihxkpcdyzrwcpymcphddsphezm
ldhuusc.gwc.gvfmc e.ddymkrxcdyzrwckpr ckyvpk,c.gwcjykkrxci.xl.xrcp.w
xrmfdkrw,cygcipyep,c.mcircp.orcmrrg,cpymcdhxwmpyucp.wcjrrgceh urddrwckh
vyorci.sncPrcp.wcjrrgcjxhhwygvchgckpymcwrlr.kcrorxcmyger,c.gwcygckpr
ldhxymkchuuhmykrcprcm.ic.cuhmmyjdrcms u.kpymrx,c.cuhkrgky.dc.dds,c.g
ygkrddyvrgkcepf ciykpciph cprcehfdwcvrkckhvrkprxc.gwckphxhfvpdscw. g
.gvfmc e.ddymkrx’mcVd.mirvy.gchjmkyg.esn

Shfcihfdwcghkcp.orcmfmurekrwcDhxwcR mihxkp,clxh c.ce.mf.dcvd.ger,chl
p.oygvciykpygcpy ckprc.jydyksckhc horcx.uywds;cjfkcykcymc.cl.ekckp.k
prci.mchfkchlckprcm hzygv-xhh c.gwcmzy  ygvcwhigckprclxhgkcmkrumchl
kprcedfjcjrlhxrc xnc eKhww’mct.i,cipyepcp.wcl.ddrgc.kckprcmurek.edrchl
pymcphmkcjhfgwygvchfkchlcpymcphxyahgchlcoymyhgcdyzrc.ct.ez-x.jjyk,cp.w
ky rckhcpykepcykmrdlcfuc.v.ygnc.c h rgkcd.krx,c xnc eKhww,cp.uurgygv
khcwyxrekcpymcv.archfkchlckprciygwhi,cm.icpy cipyac.exhmmckprcxh.wc.gw
o.gympcygkhckprcldhxymk’mcmphun

Ykci.mc.kckpymctfgekfxrckp.kcUm ykp,cp.oygvclygymprwcpymcdfgep,
e. rcwhigmk.yxmckhcrgthsc.cbfyrkcefuchlcehllrrncKprcxhh ci.mcx.kprx
exhiwrw,c.gwckprcep.yxcipyepcDhxwcR mihxkpcp.wco.e.krwchllrxrwc.ciywr
ygoyk.kyhgncPrc .wrcpymci.sckhcykn

“Ymckpymcep.yxcheefuyrw?”cprcygbfyxrwcuhdykrdsncMhcuhdykrdsckp.kc xn
 eKhww’mcxrudscmhfgwrwcjscehgkx.mkcrorgc hxrcoyhdrgkckp.gcykc yvpk
hkprxiymrcp.orcwhgrn

“Gh,cykcymg’k!”cmg.uurwc xnc eKhwwn

Um ykpcmr.krwcpy mrdlncPrci.mclrrdygvc.vxrr.jdscwymuhmrwckh
ehgorxm.kyhgn

“DhxwcR mihxkpcp.mcdrlkcshfckprg?”cprcm.ywn

“Ymcprc.clxyrgwchlcshfxm?”cygbfyxrwc xnc eKhwwcygc.cohyerckp.k
mfvvrmkrwckp.kcprci.mcurxlrekdsciyddygvckhc.eerukc.cuxhqsc.mc.ck.xvrk
lhxcpymcix.kpn

“Yczghicpy cjscmyvpkncGhkpygvc hxrn”

“Jd.mkcpy !”c fkkrxrwc xnc eKhwwciykpcygwrmexyj.jdrcoyxfdrgern

Um ykpcrsrwcpy cygbfyxygvdsn

“Ehxxrekc rcylcYc. cixhgv,”cprcm.yw,c“jfkcYcmrr ckhcwrkrekcygcshfx
 .ggrxc.cerxk.ygcp.dl-orydrwc.gghs.gerncYmc.gskpygvckprc .kkrx?”

 xnc eKhwwcj.xzrwcjykkrxdsn

“Hp,cghncGhkpygv’mckprc .kkrxncGhkpygvcip.krorx,crqerukckp.kckp.kchdw
jr.orx--”--prxrcprcixhgvrwcDhxwcR mihxkp,ciph,cip.krorxcpymcl.fdkm,ci.m
ghkc.cjr.xwrwc .g--“kp.kchdwcjr.orxcygoykrwc rckhcdfgep,ck.dzrwc.ddckpr
ky rc.jhfkcpymcyglrxg.dcldhirxm,cgrorxcdrkc rcvrkc.cihxwcygcrwvri.sm,
p.wg’kckprceh  hgceyoydyksckhchllrxc rc.ceyv.x,c.gwcghicp.mcvhgrchll
iykphfkc.cihxwchlc.uhdhvsc.gwcjfxyrwcpy mrdlcygckp.kcmphuchorxckprci.sn
Y’orcgrorxcjrrgcmhcygmfdkrwcygc scdylr!”cx.orwc xnc eKhwwn

“Me.xerdsckprcurxlrekcphmk,”c.w ykkrwcUm ykpn

“.gwcylcprckpygzm,”cm.ywc xnc eKhww,cxymygv,c“kp.kcY’ cvhygvckhcvhc.gw
mk.sciykpcpy c.kcpymcjr.mkdsce.mkdrc.lkrxckpym,cpr’mc ymk.zrgncY’ 
mfuuhmrwckhcvhcwhigckprxrciykpcpy ckpymcrorgygvnc.gwcurxp.umckprchdw
lhmmydckpygzmcYciydd!c.lkrxckpym!”c.cphxxywcd.fvpcxhddrwcfuclxh c xn
 eKhww’mcygkrxyhxnc“Dyzrds!cYcmrrc smrdl!c.lkrxcjrygvcygmfdkrwcdyzr
kpymcncncncIhfdwc_shf_?”cprcwr .gwrwn

Um ykpcv.orckprc .kkrxckphfvpkn

“Yc. cygedygrwckhckpygzcghn”

“.gwcmhc. cYcw. grwcirddcygedygrwckhckpygzcgh!”cexyrwc xnc eKhwwnc“Y’ 
vhygvc.i.scghi,ckpymcorxsc ygfkrnc.gwcylckp.kchdwckhk.dcdhmmcrorxceh rm
j.ez,cshfce.gckrddcpy cpr’mcmrrgckprcd.mkchlc rn”

.gwcX.dmkhgc eKhww,cpymcjdhhwcjhydygvciykpctfmkyly.jdrcygwyvg.kyhgc.gw
uybfrckhc.cwrvxrrcw.gvrxhfmchgcmfepc.ci.x cw.s,cmk.dzrwchllckhi.xwm
kprcwhhxciykpc.cp.xw,cmrkcl.erncKpxhfvpckprcwhhxcprcmk.dzrwckhckpr
edh.z-xhh clhxcpymcp.kc.gwce.gr;ckprg,cpymcdyumc hoygvcmydrgkds,cpr
mk.dzrwckpxhfvpckprcp.dd,cmk.dzrwcwhigckprcmkrum,c.gwcu.mmrwclxh ckpr
mergr,cmk.dzygvclfxyhfmdscxhfgwckprcehxgrxcygcbfrmkchlc.ckhj.eehgymk’mn
.kckprc h rgkchlcpymcwym.uur.x.ger,ckprcR.xdchlcR mihxkpcp.wctfmk
jrvfgckhcvyorckprcms u.kprkyecldhxymkc.cdy uywcep.x.ekrx-mzrkepchl
.gvfmc e.ddymkrxn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Um ykpcmphhzcpymcpr.wcm.wdsncKprmrced.mpygvmchlcpf .gckr urx. rgkcirxr
orxscd. rgk.jdrncKprscwymkfxjrwckprc.lkrx-dfgeprhgcxruhmrchlckprc .gchl
mrgmyjydyksncPrchxwrxrwcehllrr,c.gwcrgwr.ohfxrwckhclhxvrkckprcu.yglfd
mergrcjsckpygzygvchlcRorcP.ddyw.sn


§c5

Kprcldhxymkciphcp.wcmrkkdrwcwhigckhcudscpymckx.wrchuuhmykrckprcMrgyhx
Ehgmrxo.kyorcEdfjci.mc.cwrdyvpklfdclrddhi,ckphxhfvpdscmhfgwchgckpr
phddsphezcbfrmkyhgc.gwcmhcyglhx .kyorcygckprc .kkrxchlcwrdupygyf m,
.epyddr.m,cehxrhumym,crxsgvyf m,cvrf m,cdfuygrm,cjrxv. hkc.gwcr.xds
updhqrmckp.kcDhxwcR mihxkpcv.orcpy mrdlcfuciphdr-pr.xkrwdsckhckprclr.mk
hlcxr.mhgc.gwckprcldhichlcmhfd;c.gwcykci.mchgdscmh rclylkrrgc ygfkrm
d.krxckp.kcprcxr r jrxrwckp.kcprcp.wcdrlkc.cvfrmkcd.gvfympygvcygckpr
dhirxcm hzygv-xhh c.gwckp.kckpymcvfrmkc yvpkcjrckpygzygvcpy c.ckxyldr
xr ymmcygckprchjmrxo.gerchlckprcm.exrwcwfkyrmchlcphmuyk.dyksn

“Jdrmmc scmhfd,csrm!”cm.ywcpymcdhxwmpyu,ceh ygvchfkclxh cfgwrxckpr
ygldfrgerciykpc.cmk.xkn

Rorgckprgcprcehfdwcghkcjxygvcpy mrdlckhcw.mpc.jxfukdsclxh ckprcmphun
Kiyercprcxr.eprwckprcwhhxc.gwckiyercuhkkrxrwcj.ezckhcmgyllc.kcldhirxm
.gwcm.scmh rkpygvcprcp.wclhxvhkkrgckhc rgkyhgc.jhfkckprcMkxhgvrx
VxhiygvcEdr .kymncLyg.dds,cphirorx,ciykpchgrcd.mk,cdhgvygv,cdygvrxygv
dhhzcjrpygw,cprckhxrcpy mrdlc.i.sc.gwckxhkkrwcj.ezc.exhmmckprcxh.wn

.xxyorwcygckprcdhirxcm hzygv-xhh ,cprcmkhhwcygckprcwhhxi.sclhxc.
 h rgk,currxygvncKprcud.ercp.wcjrrgc.cjdfxckhcpy ciprgcprcp.wcdrlkcyk,
jfkcprcxr r jrxrwckp.kcprcp.wcjrrgcmykkygvcygckprc ywwdrciygwhic.gw,
.mckprxrcirxrchgdsckihcmr.kmcjsckprciygwhi,ckp.kck.dd,cw.xzcshfgvc .g
ygchgrchlckpr c fmkcjrckprcvfrmkcprcp.wcwrmrxkrwncKp.kcprcehfdwcjrc.
ep.gvrdygvcgrorxcheefxxrwckhcDhxwcR mihxkpncMhcudr.m.gkdscp.wckprcky r
u.mmrwcygckprcmphuc.exhmmckprci.sckp.kcprcp.wckprcy uxrmmyhgckp.kcpr
p.wchgdscjrrgcvhgrc.cehfudrchlc ygfkrmchxcmhncPrc .wrcpymci.sckhciprxr
kprcshfgvc .gcm.knc.co.vfrcywr.ce. rcygkhcpymcpr.wckp.kckprchkprxcp.w
vxhigc.cjykcygcpymc.jmrger,cjfkcykcu.mmrwn

“ scwr.xclrddhi,”cprcm.ywcvrgy.dds,c.mcprcmdywcygkhckprchkprxcep.yx,c“Y
xr.ddsc fmkc.uhdhvymrn”

Ykci.mcud.ygckhcUm ykpckp.kckprchkprxci.mcfgwrxc.c ym.uuxrprgmyhg,c.gw
.cxr.ddscgyer- ygwrwcshfgvc .gcihfdwcghcwhfjkcp.orcufkckprc .kkrxcxyvpk
.kchgerncKprcl.ekckp.kcykcgrorxclhxc.cmygvdrcygmk.gkcheefxxrwckhcUm ykp
khcwhcmhci.mcwfr,cghcwhfjk,ckhcmh rcygg.krcwrlrekcygcpymcep.x.ekrxn
Prci.mcrmmrgky.ddsc.cshfgvc .gciphckhhzcdylrc.mcykce. r,c.gwckprc hxr
ygehgmrbfrgkdscykce. rckprcjrkkrxcprcdyzrwcykncUxrmrgkds,cprcxrldrekrw,
ykcihfdwcjreh rcgrermm.xsclhxcpy ckhc .zrcmh rcrqefmrc.gwcmkr.dcbfyrkds
hfkchlckprchkprx’mcdylr;cjfkc r.gipydrckprcmykf.kyhgcmrr rwckhcpy ckh
uxrmrgkcrgkrxk.ygygvcuhmmyjydykyrmn

“Ghkc.kc.dd,”cprcxrudyrwcvx.eyhfmdsnc“Ghkc.kc.ddn”

“Yci.mc.lx.ywclhxc.c h rgk,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp,c“kp.kcshfc yvpk--bfykr
g.kfx.dds--jrchllrgwrwn”

“.jmfxw!”

“Mphfdwg’kcp.orcdrlkcshfcdyzrckp.kncMphezygvcj.wc .ggrxmncJfk,c scwr.x
lrddhi,cYcmy udscp.wckhcuhuc.exhmmckprcmkxrrkn”

“ hmkcwreywrwds,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“.di.smcuhuc.exhmmcmkxrrkmncYkcymckpr
mrexrkchlc.cp.uusc.gwcmfeermmlfdcdylrn”

DhxwcR mihxkpcdhhzrwc.kcpy c.cdykkdrcurxudrqrwds,c.gwcihgwrxrwcylcpr
p.wce.fvpkckprcd.mkcxr .xzcehxxrekdsncJfkcpymc ygwcp.wcgrorxcjrrg
wrmyvgrwclhxckprcufxuhmrchlcwirddygvcedhmrdschgcuxhjdr mclhxc.gs
drgvkpchlcky r,c.gwcprcdrkcykcvhn

“Jr.fkylfdcxhmrmckp.kc .gcp.m,”cprchjmrxorwnc“Xr.ddsc.gcrqkx.hxwyg.xyds
lygrcwymud.sn”

“Ygwrrw?”cm.ywcUm ykpn

“Ghkpygvckhckhfepc ygr,ckphfvpncYciymp,c scwr.xclrddhi,cshfcehfdwcp.or
jrrgcwhigc.kcJd.gwygvmc.kckprcjrvyggygvchlckprc hgkpnc scxhmrmcirxrc.k
kpryxcjrmkckprgncYk’mckhhcj.wcshfcirxrg’kckprxrckhcmrrckpr n”

“Kprcl.fdkcghcwhfjkci.mc ygr,”cm.ywcUm ykpn

“Hlcehfxmrcshfcirxrg’kcygcRgvd.gwckprgn”

“.p!cKp.kcrqud.ygmcykn”

“Mkydd,cYcmp.ddcp.orcudrgkschlcldhirxmckhcmphicshfciprgcshfc.xrc.k
Jd.gwygvmncYcrqurek,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp,c.kcd.mkcmphiygvc.cphmk-dyzr
wymuhmykyhgckhcvyorcpymcvfrmkc.cjrd.krwcyggygvm,c“Ycrqurekcshf’ddcixykr
hgrchlcshfxcuhr mc.jhfkc scv.xwrgm,crp?”

Um ykpci.mcehgmeyhfmchlc.clrrdygvchlcwymkygekcvx.kylye.kyhgncIrrzmchl
khydc. hgvckprcprxxygvmchlcJyddygvmv.krcp.wcdrlkcpy ciykpc.cmhxkchl
p.fgkygvclr.xckp.kcrorgcygcuxyo.krcdylrckprxrcedfgvckhcpy ckprc y.m .
hlckprclympc .xzrkncSrkcprxrci.mc.curxlrekdscfguxrtfwyerwchjmrxorx
dhhzygvcmbf.xrdsc.kcpy c.gwc ymk.zygvcpy clhxc.cuhrk--mphiygvckp.kcyg
muykrchlc.ddcprcp.wcvhgrckpxhfvpckprxrc fmkcmkyddcjrcmh rkpygvcghk.jds
muyxykf.dc.gwcfglympsc.jhfkcpymchfki.xwc.uur.x.gern

“Orxscuhmmyjds,”cprcm.ywnc“Orxscuhmmyjdsn”

“Ycmfuuhmrcshfcvrkcywr.mclhxcshfxcuhrkxsclxh c.ddcmhxkmchlckpygvm,”
m.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp,cghjdscxrmymkygvckprckr uk.kyhgckhcehdd.xckpr
ehgorxm.kyhgc.v.ygncPrci.mclrrdygvcrqkxr rdsclxyrgwdsckhi.xwmckpymcuhrk
lrddhincYkci.mcwrferwceyoydchlcpy cghkckhcjrcufkchfkc.gwcpfllsc.kcjrygv
drlkc.dhgrcygckprcm hzygv-xhh n

“Lxh cux.ekye.ddscrorxskpygv,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“rqerukclympn”

“Lymp?”

“Ycp.orcgrorxcixykkrgc.cuhr c.jhfkclympn”

“Gh?”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp,c.v.ygclrrdygvckp.kc.cuygcp.wcihxzrwcdhhmrcyg
kprc .epygrxschlckprcehgorxm.kyhgn

“Yci.mchgerchllrxrwc.cuxygerdscmf ,”cirgkchgcUm ykp,cghicldh.kygv
p.uuydsc.dhgvchgckprckywrchlcpymcg.kyorcrqfjrx.ger,c“khcixykrc.cj.dd.w
lhxckprc_Lymp hgvrx’mcV.arkkr_crgkykdrw,c‘PrxjrxkckprcKfxjhkn’cJfkcY
i.mclyx ncYcwredygrwn”

“Ygwrrw?”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkpn

“Hgrcp.mchgr’mcmrdl-xrmurek,”cm.ywcUm ykpn

“Hp,cwreywrwds,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkpn

“Ykci.mcu.yglfd,chlcehfxmrncKprcrwykhxcjxhzrcwhigceh udrkrdsciprgcpr
xr.dymrwckp.kc scxrlfm.dci.mclyg.dncPhirorx,cYcmrgkcpy chgciykpc.
drkkrxchlcygkxhwfekyhgckhcThpgcWxygzi.krx,ciph,cYcjrdyror,ckfxgrwcpy 
hfkcbfykrc.cvhhwcdykkdrcrllhxkchgckprckpr rn”

.kckpymc h rgk,ciprgcDhxwcR mihxkpci.mclrrdygvc.ckxyldrcwyaas,c.gw
Um ykp,chgciph cehgorxm.kyhgc.di.smc.ekrwc.mc.c rgk.dcmky fdfm,ci.mchg
kprcuhygkchlcudfgvygvcrorgcwrrurxcygkhckprc.vxrr.jdrcwrukpmchlcdyvpk
urxmyld.vr,c.ci.ykrxc.uuxh.eprwn

“.cd.wsckhcmrrcshf,cshfxcdhxwmpyun”

“Rp?c.p,csrm,chlcehfxmr,chlcehfxmrncYci.mcrqurekygvcprxncYkcymc.c ymm
----cip.kcymckprcg. r?cPhddyw.s?cP.ddyw.sncYkcymc.c ymmcP.ddyw.s,”cpr
m.ywcygcrqud.g.kyhgckhcUm ykp,c“iphcymceh ygvcwhigckhcJd.gwygvmckh
e.k.dhvfrckprcdyjx.xsnc scmrexrk.xs,cJ.qkrx,ckhdwcprxckhce.ddcprxrc.gw
mrrc rncYlcshfciyddcrqefmrc rclhxc.c h rgk,c scwr.xclrddhi?”

“Erxk.ygdsn”

.mcDhxwcR mihxkpcwym.uur.xrw,cykcheefxxrwckhcUm ykpckp.kckprc h rgk
p.wc.xxyorwclhxcpy ckhcvrkcpymcp.kc.gwcmkr.dcmhlkdschfkchlckprchkprx’m
dylrclhxcrorxncHgdscmhcehfdwcehglfmyhgc.gwcr j.xx.mmygvcrqud.g.kyhgm
jrc.ohywrwnc.gwcykci.mcUm ykp’mcvfywygvcxfdrcygcdylrc.di.smckhc.ohyw
rqud.g.kyhgmncYkc yvpk,cprclrdk,ce.fmrcDhxwcR mihxkpc.c h rgk.xs
u.gvciprgcprcxrkfxgrwckhckprcm hzygv-xhh c.gwclhfgwckp.kcprci.mc.
uhrkcmphxk,cjfkcip.kcymckp.kcygckprmrc hwrxgcw.smciprgcuhrkmc.xrcmh
udrgkylfdckp.kcykcymc.d hmkcy uhmmyjdrckhcldygvc.cjxyezcygc.gscufjdye
ud.erciykphfkcw. .vygvcmh rcmkrxgcshfgvcmygvrxncUm ykp’mcoyrichlckpr
 .kkrxci.mckp.k,cylcDhxwcR mihxkpci.mcjrgkchgc.mmhey.kygvciykpcuhrkm,
kprxrci.mcjhfgwckhcjrc.ghkprxchgrc.dhgvcygc.c ygfkrncPrci.mchgckpr
uhygk,ckprxrlhxr,chlcxymygv,ciprgckprcd.aygrmmcygwferwcjsc.cvhhwcdfgep
wreywrwcpy ckhcxr .ygcygcpymceh lhxk.jdrcep.yxclhxc.clric ygfkrm
dhgvrxncPrci.mcygchgrchlckphmrc hhwmchlcx.xrckx.gbfyddykscipyepcykcym
x.mpckhcjxr.zn

Prcdykc.ghkprxceyv.xrkkr,c.gwcpymckphfvpkm,c.mckprscp.wcwhgrc.lkrxckpr
wru.xkfxrchlc xnc eKhww,ckfxgrwcwxr. ydscygckprcwyxrekyhgchlckprcvyxd
prcp.wc rkc.kc ymmcEd.xzmhg’mcR udhs rgkcJfxr.fncPrc fmrwcfuhgcprxciykp
.cvrgkdrc rd.gephdsncM.w,cprclrdk,ckp.kckihchjoyhfmdsczygwxrwcmuyxykm
dyzrcpy mrdlc.gwcprxcmphfdwc rrkcygckprcipyxdchlcDhgwhgcdylr,chgds
khcmru.x.krc.v.yg--uxrmf .jdsclhxcrorx--my udscjre.fmrckprcrkybfrkkr
vhorxgygvckphmrciphc.xrcexr.krwc .drc.gwclr .drclhxjywmc.c .gckhcer rgk
.cep.gerc.ebf.ygk.germpyucjsc.merxk.ygygvckprcd.ws’mcg. rc.gwc.wwxrmm,
.mzygvcprxckhcdfgep,c.gwcmir.xygvcrkrxg.dclxyrgwmpyuncPrcmyvprwc.mcpr
v.arwckphfvpklfddschfkchlckprcdhirxcm hzygv-xhh ciygwhinc.mcprcp.w
ygwye.krwcygcpymcehgorxm.kyhgciykpc xncI.dwrxiyez,ckphmrcjdfrcrsrmc.gw
kp.kceprrxlfd,clxyrgwdscl.ercp.wc .wrc.cwrrucy uxrmmyhgchgcpy ncIphci.m
mpr?cIprxrcwywcmprcdyor?c.gwci.mcprcrorxckhcmrrcprxc.v.yg?

Prci.mncRorgc.mcprc.mzrwcpy mrdlckprcbfrmkyhg,ckihclyvfxrmce. rcwhig
kprcmkrumchlckprcedfj,c.gwcu.fmrwncHgrci.mcDhxwcR mihxkp,ciykphfkcpym
p.kncKprchkprx--.gwcUm ykp’mcfmf.ddschxwrxdscpr.xkcv.orc.cmu.m hwye
jhfgwc.kckprcmyvpkchlcprx--i.mckprcorxscvyxdciphci.mcheefusygv
pymckphfvpkmncKprxrcmprcmkhhw,c.mcjdfr-rsrw,c.mcl.yx-p.yxrw,c.m
ygwrmexyj.jdscthddsc.gwcep.x ygvc.mcrorxn

Um ykpcxhmrclxh cpymcep.yxciykpc.corpr rgerc.d hmkcrbf.dckhckp.k
xrergkdscwymud.srwcjsc xnc eKhwwncYkci.mcpymcygkrgkyhgckhc.wwcpy mrdl
y  rwy.krdsckhckprcvxhfuncPrcx.erwc.exhmmckprcxhh cygc.c .ggrxckp.k
wxricergmhxyhfmcvd.germclxh ckprcdhe.dcvxrsjr.xwm,c .gschlciph cp.w
p.dlc.c ygwckhcixykrckhckprceh  ykkrrc.jhfkcykn

Jfkciprgcprcxr.eprwckprchurgc.yxckprcu.or rgkc.kckprclhhkchlckprcedfj
mkrumci.mcr uksncKprcvyxdci.mctfmkco.gympygvcxhfgwckprcehxgrxcygkhckpr
Mkx.gw,c.gwchlcDhxwcR mihxkpckprxrci.mcghcmyvgcip.krorxn

Jsckpymcky r,cphirorx,cUm ykpcp.wc.ebfyxrwc.cfmrlfdcihxzygvczghidrwvr
hlcpymcdhxwmpyu’mcp.jykm,c.gwcprczgriciprxrckhcdhhzncPrcexhmmrwckpr
mkxrrkc.gwcpr.wrwclhxckprcldhxymk’mcmphun

“.p,c scwr.xclrddhi,”cm.ywcpymcdhxwmpyuc. y.jds,cmfmurgwygvcpym
ehgorxm.kyhgciykpckprcuxhuxyrkhxchgckprcmfjtrekchlcwrdupygyf m,c“ fmk
shfcjrchll?cWhg’kclhxvrkckp.kchfxckx.ygcdr.ormcU.wwygvkhgc.kclyor
mp.xuncShfck.zrcshfxckyezrkclhxc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmn”

Um ykpcp.wceh rcygkhckprcmphuc rxrdsciykpckprcygkrgkyhgchlc.mzygvcpym
dhxwmpyucylcprcp.uurgrwckhczghic ymmcP.ddyw.s’mc.wwxrmm,cjfkckprmr
ihxwmchurgrwchfkcmfepc.coymk.chlc.kkx.ekyorcuhmmyjydykyrmckp.kcprcp.w
.j.gwhgrwckpymck. rcuxhvx.  rcy  rwy.krdsncPrcxr r jrxrwcghickp.kc. hgv
 xnc eKhww’mcxr .xzmchgckpygvmcygcvrgrx.dcp.wcjrrgchgrckhckprcrllrek
kp.kcprcp.wcxreryorwc.gcygoyk.kyhgckhcoymykcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdr--hlcipyep
ygoyk.kyhgcprcwywcghkcuxhuhmrckhc.o.ydcpy mrdl;c.gwcprc.xvfrwckp.kcyl
prcp.wc.ekrwc.mcmfjmkykfkrclhxc xnc eKhwwc.kckprcedfj,cprc yvpkcirdd
ehgkygfrckprczygwdscihxzcjschllyey.kygvclhxcpy c.kcJd.gwygvmncDhhzygv
.kckprc .kkrxc.dkxfymkye.dds,cprcihfdwcuxrorgkcpymczygwcphmkc fep
wym.uuhygk rgkcjsck.zygvckpymcehfxmr;c.gw,cdhhzygvc.kcykclxh c.c hxr
urxmhg.dcoyriuhygk,chgdscjscvhygvckhcJd.gwygvmcehfdwcprcxrgricpym
.ebf.ygk.gerciykpckpymcvyxdncUm ykpcp.wcgrorxcjrrgchgrchlckphmrciph
p.gvcj.ezcwyllywrgkdsciprgc.worgkfxrce.ddm,c.gwcprcwywcghkcp.gvcj.ez
ghin

“.kclyorcmp.xu,”cprcm.ywnc“Yciyddcjrckprxrn”

“E.uyk.d,c scwr.xclrddhi,”cm.ywcpymcdhxwmpyun

“Whrmc ymmcP.ddyw.sckx.ordciykpcfm?”

“Rp?cGh,cmprcymceh ygvcwhigcygc.cw.schxckihn”

“Ycmp.ddcdhhzclhxi.xwckhc rrkygvcprx,”cm.ywcUm ykpncPrckfxgrwckhckpr
whhx,c.gwcDhxwcR mihxkpciykpc.cl.xrirddcjr. cxrmf rwcpymcehgorxm.kyhg
iykpckprcldhxymkn




EP.UKRXcOYY

J.QKRXcMFMUREKM


§c1

Kprclyorch’edhezckx.yg,cp.oygvcvyorgcykmrdlc.cmu.m hwyectrxz,cjrv.gckh
 horcmdhidschfkchlcU.wwygvkhgcMk.kyhgncKprcud.klhx cu.mkcipyepcykci.m
vdywygvci.mcexhiwrwciykpc.cgf jrxchlckprcl.fg.c.di.smckhcjrcmrrgc.k
x.ydi.scmk.kyhgmc.kcmfepc h rgkm,cjfkcygckpryxcx.gzmckprxrci.mcghcmyvg
hlc xncX.dmkhgc eKhww:c.gwcUm ykp,c.mcprcm.kchuuhmykrcDhxwcR mihxkp
ygc.cehxgrxcmr.kchlc.clyxmk-ed.mmceh u.xk rgk,clrdkckp.kcvrgy.dcvdhi
hlcm.kyml.ekyhgcipyepceh rmckhckprc .gciphcp.mcmfeermmlfddsck.zrgc.
ep.gerncFgkydcghi,cprcp.wcjrrgcp.dlc.lx.ywckp.kc eKhww,cp.oygvcep.gvrw
pymc ygw,c yvpkcmfwwrgdsc.uur.xciykpcj.vc.gwcj.vv.vr--.gcrorgkcipyep
 fmkcgrermm.xydscp.orce.fmrwcehglfmyhgc.gwcwymeh lhxkncPymc ygwci.m
ghickx.gbfydncEhgerxgygvckprclfkfxrcprcwredygrwckhcihxxsncYkcihfdw,cgh
whfjk,cehgk.ygcykmcdykkdrcwyllyefdkyrm,cjfkcprci.mcuxru.xrwckhc rrk
kpr cygckprcxyvpkcmuyxyk;c.gwcpymchgdsckxhfjdrcygckprcihxdwcghici.mckpr
wyllyefdkscprci.mcrqurxyrgeygvcygc.ohywygvcpymcdhxwmpyu’mcdrvm,cipyep
mphirwc.cwymuhmykyhgckhcurxo.wrckprceh u.xk rgkcdyzrckprckrgk.edrm
hlc.gchekhufmncDhxwcR mihxkpcx.kprxcx.gckhcdrv,c.gwcpymcux.ekyerchl
xredygygvciprgc.kcr.mrchgckprcj.mrchlcpymcmuygrci.mce.fmygvcpy ckh
mkx.wwdr,cdyzrc.uhddshgcygcUydvxy ’mcUxhvxrmm,c“xyvpkc.exhmmckprci.sn”
Ykcjre. rc .gylrmkckp.kcygc.cthfxgrscd.mkygvcmrorx.dcphfxmcpymcmheyrks
i.mcdyzrdsckhcuxhorcyxzmh rncLhxckprcky rcjrygv,cphirorx,cprcrgwfxrw
yk,c.gwcdymkrgrwciykpcuhdykrc.kkrgkyhgckhcpymcphmk’mcxr .xzmchgckpr
mfjtrekchlckprcJd.gwygvmcv.xwrgmncDhxwcR mihxkp,cygc.ckx.ygc hoygv
ygckprcwyxrekyhgchlcph r,ci.mcjrp.oygvcdyzrc.cphxmrcpr.wygvclhxcpym
mk.jdrncPrcmghxkrwcr.vrxds,c.gwcmuhzrc.kcdrgvkpc.gwciykpcr hkyhgchl
xhmrmc.gwcprxj.erhfmcjhxwrxmn

“Ykciyddcjrcw.xz,cYcmfuuhmr,cjsckprcky rcirc.xxyor,”cprcm.yw
xrvxrklfdds,c“jfkckprclyxmkckpygvckh- hxxhi,c scwr.xclrddhi,cYc fmk
k.zrcshfcxhfgwc.gwcmphicshfc scv.xwrgmn”

“Ycmp.ddcdhhzclhxi.xwckhcykczrrgds,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Kprsc.xr,cYce.g
xr.wydscy .vygr,cwymkygekdschht.p-ef -muylln”

“Ycjrvcshfxcu.xwhg?”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkpciykpc.cmk.xkn

“Ghkc.kc.dd,”cm.ywcUm ykpcvx.eyhfmdsn

“Rx--ip.kcwywcshfcm.s?”c.mzrwcpymcdhxwmpyuc.lkrxc.cmdyvpkcu.fmrn

“Yci.mcm.sygvckp.k,clxh c.ddcxruhxkm,cshfc fmkcp.orc.corxscgylks
wymud.schlcv.xwrg-uxhwferc.kcshfxcxfx.dcmr.kn”

“Hp,csrmncHp,c hmk,”cm.ywcpymcdhxwmpyu,cdhhzygvcufaadrwncPrcrq. ygrw
Um ykpc.exhmmckprceh u.xk rgkciykpcmh rkpygvchlckprcurrxygvcefxyhmyks
ipyepcprcihfdwcp.orcjrmkhirwcfuhgc.cgric.gwcfged.mmylyrwcmpxfjnc“ hmk
rqkx.hxwyg.xs!”cprc fx fxrwnc“Yckxfmk,c scwr.xclrddhi,cshfciyddcghk
kpygzc rcurxmhg.d,cjfk,cwhcshfczghi,cghjhwscihfdwcy .vygrckp.kcshfcirxr
.cuhrkncShfcwhg’kcdhhzcdyzrc.cuhrk,c.gw,cw.mpcyk,cshfcwhg’kck.dzcdyzrc.
uhrkn”

“Phicmphfdwc.cuhrkck.dz?”

“Irddcncncn”cDhxwcR mihxkpcehgmywrxrwckprcuhygknc“Irdd,c ymm
Ur.orscncncncJfkchlcehfxmrcshfcwhg’kczghic ymmcUr.orscncncnc ymmcUr.ors
ymc.cuhrkrmm,c.gwcmprci.sd.ywc rckprchkprxc hxgygvcipydrcYci.mcp.oygv
.c hmkcy uhxk.gkcehglrxrgerciykpc e.ddymkrxchgckprcmfjtrekchlcjfdjmc.gw
.mzrwc rcylcYcwywg’kckpygzckp.kcykci.mcl.yxyrm’ckr.x-wxhumckp.kc .wr
kprcwrincWywcshfcrorxcpr.xcmfepcw.mprwcghgmrgmr?”

“Roywrgkdsc.gc.vvx.o.krwce.mrncYmc ymmcUr.orscmk.sygvc.kckprce.mkdr?”

“ scwr.xclrddhi,cshfcehfdwg’kcmpylkcprxciykpcjd.mkygv-uhiwrxncXr.dds
kpymcex.archlc scmymkrxcEhgmk.gerclhxclyddygvckprcphfmrciykpckprmr
yglrxg.dcdykrx.xscurhudrcymcvrkkygvchgc scgrxormncYce.g’kcmk.gwckprmr
uhrkmc.gwcip.kcghkncGrorxcehfdwn”

“Irc fmkc.di.smcxr r jrx,cphirorx,”cm.ywcUm ykpcvx.ords,c“kp.kcuhrkm
.xrc.dmhcVhw’mcexr.kfxrmn”

“Vhhwcpr.orgm!”crqed.y rwcpymcdhxwmpyu,c.vp.mknc“Ycp.wclhxvhkkrgckp.k
shfcirxrchgrncIp.kciyddcshfckpygzchlc r,c scwr.xclrddhi!cJfk,chl
ehfxmr,c.mcYcm.ywc.c h rgkc.vh,cshfc.xrcwyllrxrgkncYc.w ykckp.kciprg
Ehgmk.gerckhdwc rckp.kcmprcp.wcygoykrwcshfckhckprcphfmrcYci.mcghk
eprrxrw,cjfk,cghickp.kcYcp.orcp.wckprcudr.mfxrchlc rrkygvcshfcncncn”

Kprcehgorxm.kyhgcp.wcihxzrwcxhfgwckhckprcorxscuhygkckhcipyepcUm ykp
p.wcjrrgciympygvckhcwyxrekcykncPrci.mczrrgdscwrmyxhfmchlclygwygvchfk
ipsc xnc eKhwwcp.wcjrrgcygoykrwckhcJd.gwygvmc.gw--.cmkyddc hxrcoyk.d
 .kkrx--hlc.merxk.ygygvciprkprx,chgcpymc.xxyo.dckprxrc.mc xnc eKhww’m
fgwrxmkfws,cprci.mcvhygvckhc rrkcurhudrciphczgrickprcuhrkcjscmyvpkncHg
kpymcd.kkrxcuhygk,cykcmrr rwckhcpy ,cpfgvckprcbfrmkyhgchlciprkprxcpr
i.mc.jhfkckhcrgthsc.cwrdyvpklfdcoymykckhc.cpymkhxyecehfgkxscphfmrcyg
kprcmheyrkschlcRorcP.ddyw.s--hxcdr.orckprckx.ygc.kckprcgrqkcmkhuc.gw
h ykckhcxrkfxgckhcykn

“Ykci.mcrqkxr rdsczygwchlcD.wscEhgmk.ger,”cprcp.a.xwrw,c“khcygoykrc.
urxlrekcmkx.gvrxckhcJd.gwygvmn”

“Hp,cmpr’mc.di.smcwhygvckp.kcmhxkchlckpygv,”cm.ywcpymcdhxwmpyunc“Yk
wywg’kc .kkrxckhcprxckp.kcmpr’wcgrorxcmrrgcshfcygcprxcdylrncMprcp.w
xr.wcshfxcjhhzm,cshfczghi,c.gwcdyzrwckpr :c.gwciprgcmprcpr.xwckp.kcshf
irxrceh ygvckhcRgvd.gw,cmprcixhkrckhcshfn”

“Ycmrr,”cm.ywcUm ykp,cxrdyrorwn

“Hlcehfxmr,cykcymc.ddcxyvpkc.mcykcp.mckfxgrwchfk,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp
p.gwmh rdsnc“.mcYcm.s,cshf’xrcwyllrxrgknc.gwcphicshfce. rckhcixykr
kp.kcncncnckp.kcncncn”

“Jydvr?”cmfvvrmkrwcUm ykpn

“KprcorxscihxwcYci.mc.jhfkckhcr udhs,c scwr.xclrddhicncncncGh,cgh,
Ycwhg’kc r.gckp.kcncncncY--YcncncncE.uyk.dcmkfll,cghcwhfjk,ce.uyk.d
mkfllcncncncjfkcncncn”

“Ycfgwrxmk.gwn”

“Ehgmk.gerckxyrwckhc .zrc rcxr.wckprckpygvm,cjfkcYcehfdwg’kncYclrdd
.mdrruchorxckpr n”

“Ycphurcshfcxrmkrwcirddn”

“Y--rx--kprcl.ekcym,cYcmfuuhmrckprscirxrcjrshgwc rncYcehfdwg’kcmrrc.gs
mrgmrcygckprckpygvmn”

“Ylcshfcihfdwce.xrckhcp.orc.ghkprxcuhuc.kckpr ,”cm.ywcUm ykpc.vxrr.jds,
“Ycp.orc.ceh udrkrcmrkcygc scj.vn”

“Gh,cgh,c scwr.xclrddhi,ckp.gzcshfcorxsc fep,ckp.gzcshfc.ckphfm.gw
ky rmncY--rx--lygwckp.kcxr.wygvcygckprckx.ygckxyrmc scrsrmn”

“.p!cShfcihfdwcuxrlrxckp.kcYcxr.wckpr c.dhfw?”

“Gh,cghn”c.cdhhzchlcpfgkrwc.d.x ce. rcygkhcpymcdhxwmpyu’mcmur.zygv
ehfgkrg.gerc.kckprcmfvvrmkyhgnc“.mc.c .kkrxchlcl.ek,cYcvrgrx.ddsck.zrc.
mphxkcg.uc.kckprcjrvyggygvchlc.cx.ydi.scthfxgrsncYclygwcykcxrlxrmpygv
.gw--rx--ygcmphxk,cxrlxrmpygvncShfciyddcrqefmrc r?”

“Ylcshfckpygzcshfce.gcvrkckhcmdrruc.ddcxyvpkciykphfkckprc.ywchlc s
uhr m,cerxk.ygdsn”

“Shfcihg’kckpygzc rcxfwr?”

“Ghkc.kc.dd,cghkc.kc.ddncJsckprci.s,c. cYcdyzrdsckhc rrkc.gschdw
lxyrgwmc.kcJd.gwygvm?”

“Rp?cHpcghncKprxrciyddcjrcghjhwscjfkchfxmrdormncRqerukc scmymkrxc.gw
 ymmcUr.ors,chlcehfxmrncShfcm.ywcshfcp.wcghkc rkc ymmcUr.ors,cYckpygz?”

“Ycp.orcghkcp.wckp.kcudr.mfxrncYc. ,chlcehfxmr,cdhhzygvclhxi.xwckhcyk
iykpckprcfk hmkczrrggrmmn”

DhxwcR mihxkpcrsrwcpy clhxc.c h rgk,c.mkhgymprw:ckprgcehgedfwrwckpr
ehgorxm.kyhgcjscedhmygvcpymcrsrmcwrlrgmyordsncUm ykpci.mcdrlkckhcpym
xrldrekyhgm,cipyepc.clric ygfkrmcd.krxcirxrcygkrxxfukrwcjsc.cm .xkczyez
hgckprcmpyg,c.mcDhxwcR mihxkp,c.ctf uscmdrrurx,cjrv.gckhckpxhicpymcdhgv
drvmc.jhfkncUm ykpc horwckhckprchkprxcrgwchlckprcmr.k,c.gw,ck.zygvcpym
j.vcwhigclxh ckprcx.ez,crqkx.ekrwc.cmdy cohdf rcjhfgwcygcmbf.mpsc .forn
.lkrxcv.aygvc.kckpymcygc.gcfglxyrgwdsc .ggrxclhxc.c h rgk,cprchurgrwcyk
.kcx.gwh c.gwcjrv.gckhcxr.wncPymclyxmkc horchgcdr.oygvcDhxwcR mihxkp
.kckprcldhxymk’mcp.wcjrrgckhcmurgwc.cuhxkyhgchlcpymcmdrgwrxce.uyk.dchg
kprcihxzmchlcX.dmkhgc eKhwwcygchxwrxcghkckhcjrck.zrgc.kc.cwym.wo.gk.vr
ygckprcrorgkchlcbfrmkyhgmc.jhfkckpr c.kcJd.gwygvm:cjfkcprcmurrwyds
xr.dymrw,c.mcprcwyuurwcygkhckprcuhr m,ckp.kc.gskpygvcygckprcg.kfxrchl
.cuxhdhgvrwcmkfwschlckpr ci.mcdyzrdsckhcmuhydcpymcdykkdrcphdyw.sncKprs
irxrcghkcdyvpkcmf  rxcxr.wygvn

cccc“_.exhmmckprcu.drcu.x.jhd.chlcThs_cncncn”

.cvfxvdygvcmghxkclxh ckprchkprxcrgwchlckprceh u.xk rgkc.jxfukds
wrk.eprwcpymc ygwclxh cykmcmkxfvvdrciykpckpymc smkyecdygrncPrcurxeryorw
kp.kcpymcphmkcp.wcmdyuurwcrorgclfxkprxcwhigchgckhcpymcmuygrc.gwci.mcghi
dsygvciykpchurgc hfkpcygc.gc.kkykfwrcmfvvrmkyorchlcwymdhe.kyhgnc.gwc.m
prcdhhzrw,ckprxrci.mc.cipymkdygvcmhfgw,c.gwc.ghkprxcmghxrcuxherrwrw
lxh ckprcj.ezchlcpymcdhxwmpyu’mckpxh.kn

Um ykpcxhmrc.gwckhhzcpymcjhhzchlcuhr mchfkcygkhckprcehxxywhxciykp
kprcufxuhmrchlcxh. ygvc.dhgvckprckx.ygcfgkydcprcmphfdwclygwc.gcr uks
eh u.xk rgkcygcipyepckhcxr.wcygcur.ern

Iykpckprckihc.wthygygvceh u.xk rgkmcprcp.wcghcdfezncHgrci.mcheefuyrwcjs
.gcrdwrxdsc .gciykpc.cxrkxyrorx,cipydrckprcuxrmrgerchlc.cj.jscygckpr
hkprxcxfdrwcykchfkchlcehgmywrx.kyhgncKprckpyxw,cphirorx,cdhhzrwc hxr
uxh ymygvncYkci.mcghkc.ekf.ddscr uks,cjfkckprxrci.mchgdschgrcheefu.gk,
.gwcprci.mc.mdrruncPrci.mcdsygvcj.ezcygckprcl.xcehxgrxciykpc.cd.xvr
mydzcp.gwzrxepyrlcwx.urwchorxcpymcl.erc.gwcpymclrrkcuxhuurwcfuchgckpr
mr.kchuuhmykrncPymcmheyrkscwywcghkcmrr cdyzrdsckhc.ekc.mc.cj.xckhckpr
mkfwschlc xnc eKhww’mc .mkrxuyrermncUm ykpcm.kcwhigc.gwcxrmf rwcpym
xr.wygvn

cccc“_.exhmmckprcu.drcu.x.jhd.chlcThs_cncncn”

Um ykpczgykkrwcpymcjxhincYkci.mctfmkckprcmhxkchlcdygrcipyepci.mcdyzrds
khcp.orcufaadrwcpymcu.kxhgrmm,cD.wscEhgmk.ger,c.gwcprc.gkyeyu.krwckp.k
mprcihfdwceh rckhcpy cwyxrekdscprc.xxyorwc.gwc.mzclhxc.gcrqud.g.kyhgn
Ykcihfdwchjoyhfmdscjrc.cuhhxcmk.xkclhxcpymcoymykckhcehglrmmckp.kcprcp.w
ghckprhxsc.mckhcykmc r.gygvcpy mrdlncPrckxyrwcykc.v.ygn

cccc“_.exhmmckprcu.drcu.x.jhd.chlcThs_cncncn”

.cmhfgwcdyzrckihchxckpxrrcuyvmclrrwygvcx.kprxcghymydscygckprc ywwdrchl
.ckpfgwrxmkhx cygkrxxfukrwcpymc rwyk.kyhgmncUm ykpcd.ywcpymcjhhzcwhig
.gwcv.arwcygc.cu.ygrwci.sc.exhmmckprceh u.xk rgkncKprxrce. rckhcpy c.
mrgmrchlcjrygvcfgl.yxdscufkcfuhg,c.mckhi.xwmckprcrgwchlcpymckxhfjdrm
ykc yvpkcp.orceh rcfuhgcThjncKpym,cprclrdk,ci.mckhhc fepncPrci.mcjrygv
p.xxyrwn

Kprc .gcygckprcehxgrxcirgkchgcmghxygvn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Kprxrcymc.di.smc.ci.snc.d hmkcy  rwy.krdscUm ykpcm.icip.kcG.uhdrhg
ihfdwcp.orcwhgrcygckpymcexymymncHgckprcmr.kcjrmywrckprcmdrrurxci.m
dsygvc.ceh u.ekcdykkdrcmfyk-e.mrciykpcp.xw,cmp.xucrwvrmncXymygvcmhlkds,
Um ykpcrwvrwc.dhgvckprceh u.xk rgkc.gwcmrefxrwckpymncKprg,cp.oygv
j.d.gerwcykce.xrlfddschgckprcx.ezc.jhorckprcmdrrurx’mcmkh .ep,cpr
xrkfxgrwckhcpymcmr.kckhc.i.ykcwrordhu rgkmn

Kprmrcirxrcghkcdhgvcygceh ygvncKprckx.yg,cghicldsygvc.kcykmcjrmkcmurrw
kpxhfvpchurgcehfgkxs,ci.mcmp.zygvcykmrdlc.kcygkrxo.dmcygc.coyvhxhfm
i.sc.mcykcx.erwc.dhgvnc.clricmrehgwmcd.krxcykc.uu.xrgkdscu.mmrwchorx
mh rcuhygkm,c.gwcmpyorxrwcjxymzdscwhigcykmciphdrcdrgvkpncKprcmfyk-e.mr
ihjjdrwcygmrefxrds,cprmyk.krw,c.gwclrddcepfgzydscygckprcrq.ekc ywwdr
hlcykmchigrx’mci.ymkeh.kncKprxrci.mc.cm hkprxrwcvfducjrgr.kpckpr
p.gwzrxepyrlncKprcmdrrurxcm.kcfuciykpc.ctrxzncKprcp.gwzrxepyrlclrdd
hllnc.gwckprxrci.mcxror.drwckhcUm ykp’mcygkrxrmkrwcv.arckprcl.erchlckpr
PhgncLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhwn


§c2

“Vhh!”chjmrxorwcLxrwwyrncPrcxr horwckprcj.vclxh cpymc ywxyllc.gwcjrv.g
khc .mm.vrckprcmkxyezrgcmuhkncKprgcmfwwrgdscurxeryoygvckp.kcprci.mcghk
.dhgrcprcdhhzrwcfuc.gwcm.icUm ykpn

“Vhh!”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,c.gwcm.kcmk.xygvciydwdsn

Ghjhwscymc hxrc.dyorckp.gcirc.xrckhckprcl.ekckp.kckprcwy.dhvfrchl
LxrwrxyezcKpxrruihhw,cxrehxwrwc.jhor,cymcghkcjxyvpkncGrorxkprdrmm,
kphmrcirxrcpymchurgygvcxr .xzm,c.gwckprcrqefmrc fmkcjrckp.kcprcp.w
u.mmrwckpxhfvpc.ckxsygvcky rc.gwcp.wctfmkcxreryorwckihcmphezm,chgr
.lkrxckprchkprxncLxh ckprclyxmkchlckprmr,ckprcupsmye.dcy u.ekchlckpr
mfyk-e.mr,cprci.mcxrehorxygv;cjfkckprcmrehgwcp.wcmy udscu.x.dsmrwcpy n
Iprg,ckprc ymkmchlcmdrrucp.oygvcedr.xrwc.i.s,cprcm.icmykkygvcjfkc.clri
lrrkc.i.sclxh cpy chgckprckx.ygckp.kci.mce.xxsygvcpy cph rckprcorxsc .g
iykpciph cprcp.wcudhkkrwcygckprcdhjjschlckprcUyee.wyddscU.d.ercPhkrd,c.
ehdwclr.xcvxyuurwcLxrwwyr’mcorxscoyk.dmn

Lxrwwyr’mckxhfjdrmcp.wcjrvfgciprgcprctfmkc ymmrwckprckirdor-lylks
kx.ygncKpymcwym.mkrxcp.wcurxkfxjrwcpy cvxr.kds,clhxcprcehfdwcghk
lhxvrkcpymcl.kprx’mcmkrxgcygtfgekyhgmchgckprcmfjtrekncJfkcip.kcp.w
xr.ddscfumrkcpy ci.mckprcl.ekckp.kcprcp.wceh rciykpygc.gc.erchl
 ymmygvckprclyorch’edhezckx.ygc.mcirddncPrcp.wcmurgkckprc.lkrxghhgcyg
.c hkyhg-uyekfxrcu.d.er,c.gwckprcl.meyg.kyhgchlckprclyd cp.wce.fmrw
py ckhcdhmrc.ddcmrgmrchlcky r,cmhckp.kchgdsckprcmdhicl.wr-hfkchgckpr
r jx.erc.gwckprcihxwmc“KprcRgw”cxr ygwrwcpy ckhcdhhzc.kcpymci.kepnc.
 .wcxfmpcp.wcvhkcpy ckhcU.wwygvkhgctfmkc.mckprclyorch’edhezcrquxrmmci.m
dr.oygvckprcmk.kyhgncRqp.fmkrw,cprcp.wcl.ddrgcygkhc.ckxhfjdrwcmdrru,
lxh cipyepcprcp.wcjrrgc.xhfmrwcjsc.coyhdrgkcjdhicygckprci.ymkeh.kc.gw
kprcgyvpk .xrcoymyhgchlcUm ykpcygckprcmr.kc.exhmmckprceh u.xk rgkncHgr
e.gghkcihgwrxcygckprmrceyxef mk.germckp.kcLxrwwyrcwywcghkcy  rwy.krds
mh.xckhckprcpryvpkmchlcrdhbfrgern

KprcuyekfxrcipyepckprcPhgncLxrwrxyezcKpxrruihhwcp.wcmrdrekrwclhxcpym
u.kxhg.vrckp.kc.lkrxghhgci.mckprcirdd-zghigcmfurx-mfurx-lyd ,c“L.gvmcHl
KprcU.mk,”clr.kfxygvcJrxkp.cJdroykepc.gwc .fxyercPrwwdrmkhgr--ipyep,
.mcrorxsjhwsczghim,cymc.ddc.jhfkcjd.ez .ydncVxrrg-i.ddrwcjscuxy ro.d
pyddm,cj.kprwcygckprcvhdwrgcmfgmpygrchlcur.erc.gwcp.uuygrmm,ckpr
oydd.vrchlcPhgrswr.gcmdf jrxrwcygckprcedr.xc hxgygvc.yxncJfkchll
kprckx.ygclxh ckprceykscmkruurwc.cMkx.gvrx--(KprcMkx.gvrx-- .qirdd
J.ggymkrx)ncPrcygbfyxrwchlc.cu.mmygvcxfmkye--(KprcU.mmygv
Xfmkye--Ed.fwrcPruihxkp)--kprci.sckhckprcvxr.kcphfmrciprxrc sxkdrcW.dr,
kprcD.wscJhfgkylfdchlckprcoydd.vrcncncncirdd,c.gsi.s,cykcymc.ddc.jhfk
jd.ez .yd,c.gwcykcp.wc.llrekrwcLxrwwyrcuxhlhfgwdsncYkcmkyddcehdhfxrw
pymcy .vyg.kyhg,c.gwckprcehgedfmyhgckhcipyepcprce. rckprc h rgkcprcm.i
Um ykpci.mckp.kckprcd.kkrxcp.wcmp.whirwcpy c.gwci.mclhddhiygvcpy cph r
iykpckprcufxuhmrchlcrqkx.ekygvcpfmp- hgrsn

Ipydrcprci.mcmkyddcvfxvdygvcihxwdrmmds,cUm ykpchurgrwckprcehgorxm.kyhgn

“.cwrdyvpklfdc.gwcfgrqurekrwcudr.mfxr,ceh x.wrncYckphfvpkcshfcp.wcdrlk
kprc rkxhuhdymcmh rcphfxmcmygern”

.mcLxrwwyrcm.kcdhhzygvcdyzrc.cehxgrxrwcwhx hfmrc.cohyerclxh ckpr
ehxxywhxcmuhzrn

“.p,ckprxrcshfc.xr,c scwr.xclrddhi!”

DhxwcR mihxkpci.mcjr. ygvcygckprcwhhxi.sncPymcmdf jrxm,cdyzrckphmrchl
Lxrwwyr,cp.wcghkcd.mkrwcdhgvncPrcp.wcjrrgc.xhfmrwchgdsc.clric ygfkrm
.lkrxcUm ykp’mcwru.xkfxrcjsckprc.xxyo.dchlckprcxrkxyrorxclxh ckprcgrqk
eh u.xk rgk,cipyep,cjhxrwcjsckprcmheyrkschlcykmchigrx,cp.wcmkxhddrwchll
hgc.ckhfxchlcygormkyv.kyhgc.gw,clygwygvcgrqkcwhhxc.gchdwc.ebf.ygk.ger
ygckprcurxmhgchlcpymcdhxwmpyu,cp.wctf urwchgckprcmr.kc.gwcdyezrwcpym
l.erciykpcmfepcpr.xkscvhhwciyddckp.kclfxkprxcmdrruci.mchfkchlckpr
bfrmkyhgncJrygvc.i.zr,cDhxwcR mihxkp,c.mc.di.smciprgcprci.mc.i.zr,cp.w
jrvfgckhcuhkkrxn

Iprgcprcm.icLxrwwyrcpymc. y.jydykscmfllrxrwc.cmphezn

“Lxrwrxyez!cYckphfvpkcYckhdwcshfckhcjrcmfxrckhcxrkfxgchgckpr
kirdor-lylksckx.yg!”

“ ymmrwcyk,cvfo’ghx,”c f jdrwcLxrwwyrckpyezdsnc“Ghkc scl.fdkn”

“P’ up!”cPymcl.kprxcmrr rwc.jhfkckhcufxmfrckprcmfjtrek,cjfkckprcl.ek
kp.kc.cmkx.gvrxc.gwchgrciphci.mcpymcvfrmkci.mcuxrmrgkc.uu.xrgkds
wreywrwcpy ckhc.ohywc.gskpygvcygckprcmp.urchlcl. ydscix.gvdrmncPr
urrxrwclxh cLxrwwyrckhcUm ykpc.gwcj.ezc.v.ygnc“Whcshfckihczghicr.ep
hkprx?”cprcm.ywn

“Ghkcsrk,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Irchgdsc rkc.c h rgkc.vhn”

“ scmhgcLxrwrxyez,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp,cx.kprxcygckprcohyerciykpcipyep
prcihfdwcp.orce.ddrwc.kkrgkyhgckhckprcuxrmrgerchlc.cmdfvc. hgvcpym
ldhirxmnc“Lxrwrxyez,ckpymcymc xnc eKhww,ckprcuhrk,ciphcymceh ygvckh
mk.sc.kcJd.gwygvmn”

Lxrwwyrcmk.xkrw,c.gwcpymc hfkpchurgrwncJfk,c rrkygvcUm ykp’mclxyrgwds
v.ar,cprcedhmrwckprchxylyerc.v.ygciykphfkcmur.zygvncPrcdyezrwcpymcdyum
ygc.gchorxixhfvpkci.sn

“Shf’ddclygwc rcgrqkcwhhx,cylcshfci.gkc r,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkpckh
Um ykpnc“Tfmkcwymehorxrwckp.kcVrhxvrcIydd.xw,corxschdwclxyrgwchlc ygr,
ymcygckprxrncGrorxcm.icpy cvrkchgckprckx.ygncPymcwhvce. rcygkhc s
eh u.xk rgkc.gwcdyezrwc scl.erncHgrchlc scgryvpjhfxmnc.cxr .xz.jdr
xhmr-vxhirxnc.mcshfc.xrcmhcygkrxrmkrwcygcldhirxm,cYciyddck.zrcshfchorx
khcpymcud.ercmh rcky rncIpscwhg’kcshfcthygcfmcghi?”

“Ycihfdwcuxrlrx,cylcshfcwhcghkc ygw,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“khcxr .ygcprxrclhx
kprc h rgkc.gwclhmkrxcip.kcYclrrdcmfxrcymc.jhfkckhcwrordhucygkhc.cvxr.k
.gwcd.mkygvclxyrgwmpyuncYc. cehgoygerwckp.kcshfxcmhgc.gwcYciyddcp.or
 fepckhck.dzc.jhfkckhvrkprxn”

“Orxscirdd,c scwr.xclrddhincIrciyddc rrkc.kcwyggrxcygckpr
xrmk.fx.gk-e.xn”

DhxwcR mihxkpcuhkkrxrwchll,c.gwcUm ykpcxhmrc.gwcedhmrwckprcwhhxncPr
xrkfxgrwckhcpymcmr.kckhclygwcLxrwwyrcxrv.xwygvcpy ciykpc.ckhxkfxrw
rquxrmmyhgcygcpymcx.kprxcuxh ygrgkcrsrmncLxrwwyr’mcjx.ygcp.wcp.wc hxr
rqrxeymrcygckprcd.mkclric ygfkrmckp.gcygcsr.xmchlcpymcghx .dcdylr,c.gw
prci.mclrrdygvckprcmkx.ygn

“Ycm.s,cip.k?”cprchjmrxorwclrrjdsn

“Ylckprxrcymc.gskpygv,”cm.ywcUm ykpczygwds,c“kp.kcYce.gcwhckhcedr.x
fuc.gscdykkdrcwyllyefdksckp.kcymcurxudrqygvcshf,ce.ddchgc rncIp.kcym
jykygvcshf?”

Lxrwwyrcmi.ddhirwcehgofdmyordsn

“Ycm.s,cprcm.ywcshfxcg. rci.mc eKhww!”

“Uxreymrdsn”

“Jfkcshfcm.ywcykci.mcUm ykpn”

“Ykcymn”

“Kprgcipscwywcl.kprxce.ddcshfc eKhww?”

“PrckpygzmcYc. ncYkcymc.cp.x drmmcrxxhx,c.gwcYcmrrcghcxr.mhgcipscyk
mphfdwcjrcwymehfx.vrwn”

“Jfkcipscwhrmcprckpygzcshf’xrc eKhww?”

“Ykcymc.cdhgvcmkhxs,cipyepcshfc .sclygwckrwyhfmncJfk,cylcshfcxr.dds
iympckhcpr.xcykcncncn”

Ghkpygvcehfdwcp.orcrqerrwrwckprcx.ukgrmmchlcLxrwwyr’mc.kkrgkyhgc.mcpr
dymkrgrwckhckprck.drchlckprcrgehfgkrxciykpcDhxwcR mihxkpc.kckprcMrgyhx
Ehgmrxo.kyorcEdfjn

“Whcshfc r.gckhcm.s,”cprcwr .gwrwc.kcykmcehgedfmyhg,c“kp.kcshf’xr
eh ygvckhcJd.gwygvmcuxrkrgwygvckhcjrckpymcuhrkcjdyvpkrx?”

“Kp.kcymckprcmepr rn”

“Jfkcips?”

“Ycp.orc scxr.mhgm,cEh x.wr--ip.kcymckprcg. r?cKpxrruihhw?cYckp.gz
shfncShfciyddcu.xwhgc r,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,cylcYcwhcghkcvhcygkhckpr n
.gwcghi,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“khcxrmf rchfxcorxscygkrxrmkygvcep.kcipyepci.m
fglhxkfg.krdscefkcmphxkckpymc hxgygv,cipscwhcshfci.gkc rckhcmkr.dcshfx
.fgk’mcgrezd.er?”

Lxrwwyrctf urwncLhxckprc h rgk,cmhckrgmrdscp.wckprcl.ekchlcpym
eh u.gyhg’mc.fw.eykscep.ygrwcpymcygkrxrmk,cprcp.wc.ekf.ddsclhxvhkkrg
.jhfkckprcgrezd.ern

“Vxr.kcMehkk!”cprcrqed.y rwnc“Ips,chlcehfxmr!”

“Shfcmkyddcp.orcghkc .wrcykcbfykrcedr.xn”

“Ykclykmcmudrgwywdsn”

“Kprcgrezd.er?”

“Yc r.gckhcm.s,ckprcvxr.kcwyllyefdkscihfdwcp.orcjrrgckhclygwc.ci.schl
vrkkygvcshfcygkhckprcphfmr,c.gwcprxrcshfc.xr,ceh ygvckprxrc.mckpymcuhrk
jyxwncKhuuygv!”

“Yl,”cm.ywcUm ykp,cxrv.xwygvcpy cu.kyrgkdsckpxhfvpcpymcrsrvd.mm,c“Ycwh
ghkcmrr ckhcjrcy  rwy.krdscyglrekrwcjscshfxcthshfmcrgkpfmy.m ,cufkcyk
whigckhckprcl.ekckp.kcYcp.org’kckprcxr hkrmkcywr.cip.kcshf’xrck.dzygv
.jhfkncEhfdwcshfcvyorc rc.cuhygkrxchxckih?cIp.k,clhxcygmk.ger,c.mmf ygv
kp.kcYc.vxrrwckhcmkr.dcshfxc.fgk’mcgrezd.er,cihfdwcshfcrqurekc rckhcwh
iykpcyk,ciprgc.gwcylcmkhdrg?”

“Ips,cp.gwcykchorxckhc rn”

“Ycmrrnc.gwcip.kcihfdwcshfcwhciykpcyk?”

“P.gwcykchorxckhc scfgedrn”

“.gwciph cihfdwcprcp.gwcykchorxckh?”

“Dhhzcprxr,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,c“Yc yvpkc.mcirddcmk.xkc.kckprcjrvyggygvn”

“.gcrqerddrgkcywr.n”

Kprcmurrwc.kcipyepckprckx.ygci.mcghicuxherrwygvcp.wcjrvfgckhcxrgwrx
ehgorxm.kyhgcygc.gskpygvcjfkcmkrgkhxy.gckhgrmcmh rip.kcwyllyefdkn
Lxrwwyrc.eehxwygvdscjrgkclhxi.xwckyddcpymc hfkpc.d hmkckhfeprwcUm ykp’m
r.xn

“Shfcmrr,cyk’mcdyzrckpymnc scfgedr,chdwcThrcZrrjdrcncncn”

“Zrrjdr?”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Ips,”cprc fx fxrwc rwyk.kyords,c“ymckp.kcg. r
l. ydy.x?”

“Whg’kcygkrxxfuk,chdwcd.w,”cudr.wrwcLxrwwyrn

“Ycmk.gwcehxxrekrwn”

“FgedrcThrcp.mc.cmkruw.fvpkrx--Upsddymcprxcg. rcym--.gwcmh rcky rc.vh
mprcuhuurwchllc.gwc .xxyrwc.cehorce.ddrwcT.ezmhgcncncn”

Um ykpcwywcghkcygkrxxfukckprcg.xx.kyorc.v.yg,cjfkc.mcykcuxherrwrw
pymcdhhzchlcygkrxrmkcwrrurgrwnc.gwc.kckprcehgedfmyhgcprcu.kkrwcpym
eh u.gyhgcrgehfx.vygvdschgckprcmphfdwrxn

“Kprcuxherrwm,ckprg,chlckpymctrird-xhjjrxs,cylcykceh rmchll,”cprcm.yw,
“iyddcvhckhcrmk.jdympckprcT.ezmhgcph rchgc.clyx clhhkygv?c. cYcxyvpkcyg
kpygzygvckp.k?”

“.jmhdfkrdsn”

“Kprxrcymcghcw.gvrx--shfciyddcu.xwhgckprcmfvvrmkyhg--hlcshfcedygvygv
dyzrcvdfrckhckprcmi.vc.gwcfmygvcykckhc .ygk.ygcshfxmrdlcygckprcuhmykyhg
khcipyepcshfc.xrc.eefmkh rw?”

“.jmhdfkrdscghkncFgedrcThrcymcvyoygvc r--rx--vyoygvc rc.cjykclhx
 smrdlncTfmkc.cm .ddcjyk,cshfcfgwrxmk.gwncKpymcymckprcmepr rncShfcmgr.z
kprcgrezd.erc.gwcp.gwcykchorxckhc rncYcufmpckprcgrezd.erchorxckhcFgedr
Thr,ciphcpywrmcykcmh riprxrclhxckprc h rgkncKprxrcymckprcwyezrgmchlc.
lfmm,c.gwcFgedrcThrceh rmchfkcmkxhgvcjsckrddygvc.fgkcEhgmk.gerckp.k
pr’ddcjfscprxc.ghkprxcgrezd.er,ctfmkc.mcvhhwncKprgcprck.zrmckprcmkhgrm
hfkchlckprcgrezd.er,cp.mckpr cxrmrk,c.gwcvyormckpr ckhc.fgkcEhgmk.gern
Dhhzmcdyzrc.cgricgrezd.er,cylcshfcmrrcip.kcYc r.gncKprgcprcwx.imc.
eprbfrclhxckirgksckphfm.gwcbfyw,cipyepc.fgkcEhgmk.gercg.kfx.ddsckpygzm
ymclhxckprcgricgrezd.er,c.gwcprcmphormckprc hgrscmh riprxrc.mc.cdykkdr
uxyo.krc.eehfgkncPrcvyormcUpsddymcprxc hgrs,c.gwcrorxsjhws’mcp.uusn
.fgkcEhgmk.gercp.mcvhkcprxcgrezd.er,cUpsddymcp.mcvhkcprxc hgrs,c.gwc.dd
kp.k’mcp.uurgrwcymckp.kc.fgkcEhgmk.ger’mc.gwcFgedrcThr’mceh jygrwcj.gz
j.d.gercp.mcp.wc.cjykchlc.cphdrczghezrwcygcykncMrr?”

“YcmrrncYkcymc.cdykkdrcwyllyefdkckhclhddhic.ddckprcgrezd.ermncYcmrr rw
khcehfgkc.jhfkcmrorgkrrgchlckpr cipydrcshfcirxrck.dzygv,cjfkcYcmfuuhmr
Yci.mcixhgvncSrm,cYcmrr,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,c.gwcYc .scm.sc.kchgerckp.k
shfce.gcxrdschgc sceh-hurx.kyhgn”

“Shf’ddcwhcyk?”

“Yciyddn”

“Hlcehfxmr,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrc.izi.xwds,c“Y’ddcmrrckp.kcshfcvrkc.cjykc.dd
xyvpkncYc r.gcncncn”

Um ykpci.orwcpymcp.gwcwruxre.kygvdsn

“ scwr.xcEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,cdrkcfmcghkcjreh rcmhxwywchgckpymcvd.w
hee.myhgnc.mcl.xc.mcYc. cehgerxgrw,ckprxrciyddcjrcghcep.xvrn”

“Ip.k!cJfkcdhhzcprxrcncncn”

“.gsc.mmymk.gercYce.gcvyorciyddcjrchllrxrwcygc.cufxrdsc. .krfxcmuyxykn
Ycihfdwcp.orc rgkyhgrwcjrlhxr,chgdscYci.mcxrdfek.gkckhcygkrxxfukcshf,
kp.kcEh x.wrcT.ezmhgcymc scjhsphhwcepf ,c.gwckp.kcUpsddym,cpymciylr,
ygtrekmcygkhc scdylrckprclricjr. mchlcmfgmpygrckp.kcyddf ygrcykmcwxr.xs
xhfgwncYcp.orcdhgvcwrmyxrwckhcwhcmh rkpygvckhc. rdyhx.krckpryxcdhk,
.gwcghickp.kckprcep.gercp.mceh rcYc. cwrdyvpkrwncYkcymckxfrckp.kcYc. 
ghkc.c .gchlc.lldfrger-- scj.gz- .g.vrx,cYc. ckhdw,ciygermcygc.cx.kprx
u.yglfdc .ggrxciprgrorxc scg. rcymc rgkyhgrw--jfkcYc. cghkcmhcxrwferw
kp.kcYc fmkcep.xvrc.clrrclhxcurxlhx ygv,chgcjrp.dlchlc.cu.d,c.cmy udr
.ekchlcehfxkrmscdyzrcuygepygvc.ckirgksckphfm.gwcuhfgwcgrezd.ern”

“VhhwcDhxw!cL.gesckp.k!”

“L.gescip.k,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw?”

“L.gescshfxczghiygvcUpsddymc.gwcprxcpfmj.gwn”

“Ykcymchww,cghcwhfjkncJfkckxfrnc .gsc.cip.ezc.kckprcehdwcjrrlcp.orcY
p.wchgcMfgw.scrorgygvmcfgwrxckpryxcxhhl,c.gwcYc. c fepchjdyvrwckhcshf
lhxcufkkygvcygc sci.sckpymchuuhxkfgykschlcxru.sygvckpryxcphmuyk.dyksn
Kp.gzcshf!”

“Hp,ckp.k’mc.ddcxyvpk,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,cmh rip.kcjriydwrxrwcjsckpym
rdhbfrgern

“Rorgcylckprcdykkdrcrgkrxuxymrc rrkmciykpcwym.mkrx,ckprcxrldrekyhgckp.k
Ycwywc scjrmkclhxckprcshfgvcehfudrciyddcjrc.cvxr.kcehgmhd.kyhgckhc r
iprgcYc. cmrxoygvc scjykchlcky rcygcIhx ihhwcMexfjjmncYkciyddceprrxc r
funcKprct.ydrxmciyddcedfmkrxchfkmywrckprcwhhxckhcdymkrgckhc rcmygvygv
ygc scerddnc scurkcx.k,c.mcprcexrrumchfkckhcmp.xrckprcexf jmchlc s
jxr.zl.mk,ciyddcihgwrxcipscYcipymkdrc.mcYcuyezckprc hxgygv’mch.zf n
Ycmp.ddcthygcygckprcps gmchgcMfgw.smcygc.ci.sckp.kciyddcrdrekxyls
kprcep.ud.ygncKp.kcymckhcm.s,cylc.gskpygvcvhrmcixhgvc.gwcYc. cip.k
Ycjrdyrorcymckrepgye.ddsckrx rwc‘ehuurwn’cYcm.sc‘yl,’”cm.ywcUm ykp,
v.aygvcmhdr gdsc.kcpymceh u.gyhgnc“JfkcYcwhcghkcygkrgwckhcjrcehuurwncY
p.orcgrorxcvhgrcygcd.xvrdsclhxcexy rcpykprxkh,cjfkcmh rkpygvckrddmc r
Ycmp.ddcjrcx.kprxcvhhwc.kcykncYcdhhzclhxi.xwcehglywrgkdsckhc .zygvc.
gyer,cedr.gcthjchlckprckpygvnc.gwcghi,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,cYc fmkc.mz
shfckhcrqefmrc rcipydrcYcvrkckprcp.dl-grdmhgchgckpymcx.kprxcuhymhghfm
uhrkxschlcvhhwchdwc eKhww’mncLxh ckprcefxmhxscvd.gercYcp.orck.zrgc.k
yk,ckprcmkfllcwhrmg’kcmrr ckhc r.gc.gskpygvncYckpygzckprcjhs’mc_ghg
eh uhm_nc_Shf_cwhg’kcp.uurgckhcfgwrxmk.gwckprcrquxrmmyhgc‘.exhmmckpr
u.drcu.x.jhd.chlcThs,’cwhcshf?cncncncYclr.xrwc.mc fepncIrdd,cuyu-uyu
lhxckprcuxrmrgk,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhwncYcmp.ddcghic.mzcshfckhcxrkyxr
ygkhcshfxcehxgrxc.gwc. fmrcshfxmrdlclhxc.ipydrc.mcshfcjrmkce.gncYc fmk
ehgergkx.kr,cehgergkx.krn”

.gwcUm ykp,cp.oygvcufkcpymclrrkcfuchgckprchuuhmykrcmr.kc.gwcxrhurgrw
kprc .forcohdf r,cjrv.gckhcxr.wncLxrwwyr,cpymc ygwcmkyddcygc.cipyxd,
dhhzrwchfkchlckprciygwhic.kckprcu.mmygvcmergrxscygc.c hhwcipyepci.mc.
gyercjdrgwchlcrd.kyhgc.gwc.uuxrprgmyhgn


§c3

.dkphfvpckprcp.gwmchlckprcmk.kyhgcedhezcuhygkrwckhcmrorx.dc ygfkrmcu.mk
gygr,cykci.mcmkyddc.uu.xrgkdscr.xdscrorgygvciprgckprckx.ygcwxricfu
.kckprcud.klhx chlc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmc.gwcwymep.xvrwcykmcwymkygvfymprw
u.mmrgvrxmncKprcmfg,ck.zrgcygc.mcfmf.dcjsckprcgrorx-l.ydygvcux.ekye.d
thzrchlckprcW.sdyvpkcM.oygvc.ek,cp.wchgdsctfmkcmrk,c.gwc.cvhdwrg
.lkrxvdhicdygvrxrwchgckprclyrdwmc.mckprce.xcipyepcp.wc rkckprckx.yg
ufxxrwchorxckprckihc ydrmchlcehfgkxscxh.wckp.kcmru.x.krwckprcdykkdr
khigclxh ckprce.mkdrnc.mckprscu.mmrwcygcjrkirrgckprcvxr.kcmkhgr
v.kr-uhmkmc.gwcmphkcfuckprciygwygvcwxyor,ckprcmhlkc fx fxchlckpr
rgvygrmcmrr rwckhcwrrurgcx.kprxckp.gcjxr.zckprcmhhkpygvcmkyddgrmmn
Kprc.yxci.mclx.vx.gkciykpcygwrmexyj.jdrcRgvdympcmergkmncMh riprxr
ygckprcwymk.gercmprru-jrddmckygzdrw;cx.jjykm,ci.vvdygvcipykrck.ydm,
jhdkrwc.exhmmckprcu.kp;c.gwchgerc.cprxwchlc.vyk.krwcwrrxc .wrc.cjxyrl
.uur.x.gerc. hgvckprckxrrmncKprchgdsckpygvckp.kcwymkfxjrwckprc .vye
pfmpci.mckprcldfkygvcohyerchlcDhxwcR mihxkp,chgciph ckprcmurek.edrchl
pymcjrdhorwcuxhurxkscp.wc.ekrwc.mc.gcy  rwy.krcmky fd.gkncFgdyzrcpym
mhgcLxrwwyr,ciphcm.kcmydrgkcygcpymcehxgrxcixrmkdygvciykpcpymcphurm
.gwclr.xm,cDhxwcR mihxkpcp.wcudfgvrwcygkhc.curxlrekcGy.v.x.chlcmurrep
kprc h rgkckprce.xcrgkrxrwckprcu.xzncYgc.cpyvpckrghxcohyer,c.gwciykp
iywr,crqeykrwcvrmkfxrm,cprcuhygkrwchfkckhcUm ykpch.zmciykpc.cpymkhxs
.gwcxphwhwrgwxhgmciykpc.cu.mk:cpymcehgorxm.kyhgc.mckprscwxricgr.xckpr
e.mkdrc.gwce. rcygcmyvpkchlckprcldhirx-jrwmck.zygvchgc.gc.d hmkcdsxye.d
ghkrc.gwcjreh ygvc.cmhxkchlc.gkpr chlcvd.wgrmm,ckpxhfvpcipyep,cdyzr
mh rckpr rcygckprc yghx,cx.gc.cmrxyrmchlchuuxhjxyhfmchjmrxo.kyhgmchg
kprcmfjtrekchlc.gvfmc e.ddymkrxn

Jr.ep,ckprcjfkdrx,cmhdyeykhfmdscmehhuygvckpr chfkchlckprce.xc.kckpr
lxhgkcwhhx,c.gghfgerwckp.kcprxcd.wsmpyuc.gwc ymmcUr.orscirxrck.zygv
kpryxc.lkrx-wyggrxcehllrrcygckprc.xjhfxcjsckprcjhidygv-vxrrg;c.gw
uxrmrgkdscUm ykp,cehgwfekrwcjscpymcdhxwmpyu,clhfgwcpy mrdlcmp.zygv
p.gwmciykpc.cmkxyzygvdscp.gwmh rcih .gcygciph ,ckphfvpcprxc .ggrx
i.mclxyrgwdygrmmcykmrdl,cprcehfdwcwrkrekc.c .xzrwcmfvvrmkyhgchlckpr
lhx yw.jdrncÆmkprkye.dds,cprc.w yxrwcD.wscEhgmk.ger’mc.uur.x.ger,cjfk
prcehfdwcghkcehger.dclxh cpy mrdlckp.kcygckprcurefdy.xceyxef mk.germ
prcihfdwcp.orcuxrlrxxrwcmh rkpygvcx.kprxc hxrclx.vydrc.gwcwxhhuygvn
D.wscEhgmk.gercehgorsrwckprcy uxrmmyhgckp.kc.gsjhwsciphcp.wckprcephyer
jrkirrgcmkr.dygvc.gskpygvclxh cprxc.gwcmkyxxygvcfuc.cgrmkchlcphxgrkm
iykpc.cmphxkci.dzygv-mkyezcihfdwcwhcirddckhcephhmrckprcphxgrkmn

“Phicwhcshfcwh,c xnc eKhww?”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.gerciykpcvxr.kc. y.jydyksn
“Yc. cmhcvd.wcshfcirxrc.jdrckhceh rc.lkrxc.ddn”

Um ykpcihgwrxrwcip.kcmprc r.gkcjsc“.lkrxc.dd,”cjfkckprxrcirxrcmhc .gs
kpygvmc.jhfkcpymcuxrmrgkcmykf.kyhgce.defd.krwckhck.qckprc ygwckp.kcpr
p.wcghcwrmyxrckhcuxhjrcmdyvpkcorxj.dc. jyvfykyrmncPrcmphhzcprxcp.gwc.gw
xrudyrwckp.kcykci.mcorxsczygwchlcprxckhcm.scmhn

“Irc.xrcbfykrc.cm .ddcu.xksc.kcuxrmrgk,”cehgkygfrwcD.wscEhgmk.ger,c“jfk
irc.xrcrqurekygvc.cgf jrxchlcurhudrcbfykrcmhhgncLhxckprc h rgkc.ydrrg
.gwcshfc.xrchfxchgdscvfrmkmncHp,cYc. cmhxxs,cYcmphfdwcp.orcncncnc ymm
Ur.ors,c xnc eKhwwn”

Kprcmdy c.gwciyddhisclr .drciphcwfxygvckpymcjxyrlcehgorxm.kyhgcp.wcjrrg
i.ykygvcygc.gc.kkykfwrchlcmfmurgwrwc.gy .kyhg,cv.aygvc.kcUm ykpciykp
d.xvr,ciymklfdcrsrm,cmkruurwclhxi.xwncMprced.murwcUm ykp’mcp.gwcyg
prxm,cprdwcyk,c.gwcygc.cdhi,cmhlkcohyer,cdyzrckpyezcexr. c .wrc.fwyjdr,
fkkrxrwchgrcxrorxrgkcihxwn

“_ .îkxr!_”

“Ycjrvcshfxcu.xwhg?”cm.ywcUm ykpnc.cshfgvc .gce.u.jdrchlcjr.xygv
py mrdlciykpce.d c.gwcwyvgykscygc hmkceyxef mk.germ,cphirorxckxsygv,cpr
lhfgwcpymcuhymrcihjjdygvcfgwrxckprcy u.ekchlc ymmc.ydrrgcUr.orsn

 ymmcUr.orschlkrgcp.wckpymcrllrekchgckprcdrmmcmhfdlfdcksurchlc .g,
rmurey.ddscygckprc hxgygvm,ciprgcmfepc rgc.xrcghkc.kckpryxcmkxhgvrmk
.gwcjrmkncIprgcmprce. rcygkhckprcjxr.zl.mk-xhh chlc.cehfgkxscphfmr,
jx.orc rgciphcp.wcjrrgcfuc.cjykcd.krckprcgyvpkcjrlhxrcbf.ydrwc.gwckxyrw
khcpywrcjrpygwcgrimu.urxmncMprci.mckprcmhxkchlcih .gciphckrddmc.c .g
iphcymcuxhuuygvcpymcrsrmchurgciykpcpymclygvrxmc.gwcrgwr.ohfxygvckh
ehxxrekc.cpr.w.eprciykpcmkxhgvckr.,ckp.kcmprci.mcfuc.kcmyqci.kepygvckpr
wricl.wrchllckprcvx.mm,c.gwcwywg’kcprckpygzckp.kckphmrciymumchlc hxgygv
 ymkcirxrckprcrdorm’cjxyw.d-orydmncMprcp.wcd.xvr,clygr,c rd.gephds
rsrm,c.gwci.mc.ukckhcwxhhucwxr. ydsn

“ .mkrx!”cm.ywc ymmcUr.ors,chjdyvygvdsckx.gmd.kygvn

Kprxrcwywcghkcmrr ckhcjrc.gscy  rwy.krceh r-j.ezckhc.cxr .xzcdyzrckpym,
mhcUm ykpcehgkrgkrwcpy mrdlciykpcjr. ygvcvrgy.ddsc.kcprxckpxhfvpcpym
 hghedr:c.gwc ymmcUr.orsce. rckhcj.kc.v.ygn

“Phicihgwrxlfdckp.kcshfcirxrc.jdrckhceh r--.lkrxc.dd!”

.v.ygckpymc“.lkrxc.dd”c hkyorcexrruygvcygkhckprckpr rncncncn

“Shfczghic ymmcUr.ors’mcihxz,chlcehfxmr?”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.ger,cm ydygv
udr.m.gkdschgcprxckihcerdrjxykyrmn

“Iphcwhrmcghk?”cm.ywcUm ykpcehfxkrhfmdsn

“Hp,c_wh_cshf?”cm.ywc ymmcUr.ors,cvx.kylye.kyhgce.fmygvcprxcmdrgwrx
jhwsckhcurxlhx c.cmhxkchlcd.wsdyzrcmpy  scwhigcykmciphdrcdrgvkpnc“Y
me.xerdscphurwckp.kcshfcihfdwczghic scg. rnc scE.g.wy.gcm.drmcp.orcghk
jrrgcd.xvrn”

“Bfykrcd.xvrcrghfvp,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Yc r.g,chlcehfxmr,”cprc.wwrwciykpc.
u.krxg.dcm ydr,c“kp.k,cipydrcshfxcwrdye.krc.xkc .scghkcp.orc.cfgyorxm.d
.uur.dcygc.cshfgvcehfgkxs,cykcymcygkrgmrdsc.uuxrey.krwcjsc.cm .ddc.gw
mrdrekcjhwschlckprcygkrddyvrgkmy.n”

.gwcylckp.kci.mcghkckprcmkfllckhcvyorckpr ,cprcxrldrekrwciykpcghkc.
dykkdrceh ud.erges,cprci.mcw.mprwn

“Shfxchigcihgwrxlfdcuhr m,”cxrudyrwc ymmcUr.ors,c“.xr,chlcehfxmr,czghig
kprciphdrcihxdwchorxncHp,c xnc eKhww,cshfce.gcp.xwdsc.uuxrey.krcphicY
lrrd,c rrkygvcshfncYkcymcdyzrckprcxr.dym.kyhgchlcmh rcvhdwrgcwxr. chl
epydwphhwncYkcymcdyzrcncncn”

PrxrckprcPhgncLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhwcxr .xzrwcmfwwrgdsckp.kcprci.mcvhygv
khcuhucygkhckprcphfmrclhxc.cipymzsc.gwcmhw.nc.mcprcp.wcghkcuxroyhfmds
muhzrg,cpymchjmrxo.kyhgcp.wcmh rkpygvchlckprcrllrekchlc.cohyerclxh 
kprckh jncKprcw.sdyvpkci.mcrjjygvcl.mkcghi,c.gwcygckprcmp.whimcprcp.w
ehgkxyorwckhcu.mmchfkchlcmyvpkc.mcirddc.mchfkchlc ygwnc ymmcUr.ors
mk.xkrwcdyzrc.gc.jxfukdsc.i.zrgrwcmh g. jfdymk,c.gwcUm ykpci.mc.kcd.mk
.jdrckhcxrdr.mrcpymcp.gw,cipyepcprcp.wcjrvfgckhcdhhzchgc.mcvhgrcjrshgw
pymcehgkxhdclhxcrorxncFgkydckpymclhxkfg.krcygkrxxfukyhgckprxrcp.w
mrr rwcghcxr.mhgcipsc ymmcUr.orscmphfdwcghkcp.orcehgkygfrwckhcphdwcyk
kyddcjrwky rn

Lxrwwyr’mcwru.xkfxrcp.wckprcrllrekchlcjxr.zygvc.cmurddncDhxwcR mihxkp,
iphcp.wcjrrgcmk.gwygvcurxlrekdscmkyddciykpco.e.gkcrsrm,cdyzrc.cwhv
dymkrgygvckhc.cghymrc.cdhgvci.schll,ce. rckhcdylrciykpc.ctrxzn

“Y’ cvhygvckhcp.orc.cdhhzc.kc scldhirxm,”cprc.gghfgerwn

“Whg’kcjrcmydds,cEd.xrger,”cm.ywcpymcmymkrxnc“Yk’mc fepckhhcw.xzckhcmrr
ldhirxmn”

“Ycehfdwcm rddc’r ,”cxrkhxkrwcpymcdhxwmpyuc.xvf rgk.kyordsn

Ykcmrr rwc.mcylckprcu.xksc fmkcjxr.zcfu,clhxc.dxr.wscpymcdhxwmpyucp.w
jrvfgckhcuhkkrxchll,ciprgc.cgri-eh rxc.xxyorwckhcmhdywylscykc.v.ygn

“.p,cJ.qkrx,c scwr.xclrddhi,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkpnc“Prxrcirc.xr,cshf
mrrn”

“ xncJ.qkrx,”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.ger,c“Yci.gkcshfckhc rrkc xnc eKhwwn”

“ xnc eKhww!”cm.ywckprcgric.xxyo.d,chgc.cghkrchlcmfxuxymrn

“Srm,cprclhfgwcpy mrdlc.jdrckhceh rc.lkrxc.ddn”

“.p!”cm.ywckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxn

YkcheefxxrwckhcUm ykpc.mc.cu.mmygvckphfvpk,ckhcipyepcprcv.orcghc hxr
kp.gc.c h rgk.xsc.kkrgkyhg,ckp.kckpymcmurek.edrwc.gwce.u.jdr-dhhzygv
 .gci.mcv.aygvc.kcpy ,c.mckprscmphhzcp.gwm,ciykpc.cefxyhfmcygkrgmyksn
Jfkcuhmmyjds,cprcxrldrekrw,ckpymci.mc rxrdsc.cmureyrmchlchukye.d
yddfmyhgcwfrckhckprchkprx’mcmurek.edrmncJ.qkrx,cmk.xygvckpxhfvpcpym
murek.edrm,chlkrgcv.orcurhudrckprcy uxrmmyhgchlcuhmmrmmygvc.gcrsrckp.k
ehfdwcuyrxercmyqcygeprmchlcp.xorsymrwcmkrrdc.gwcmkyezchfkchgckprchkprx
mywrncP.oygvcxrvymkrxrwcygcpymcehgmeyhfmgrmmckprcl.ekckp.kcprcp.wcjrrg
mk.xrwc.kczrrgdscjsckpymcmkx.gvrx,cUm ykpckphfvpkcghc hxrchlckprc .kkrxn

Ygckpfmcdyvpkdscwym ymmygvckprcJ.qkrxy.gcmk.xr,cUm ykpcp.wc.ekrw
ygtfwyeyhfmdsncPrcmphfdwcp.orcrq. ygrwcykc hxrcedhmrdsc.gwc .wr
.gcrllhxkckhc.g.dsmrcyk,clhxcykci.mcjscghc r.gmciykphfkcykm
 rmm.vrncYkci.mc.cmk.xrchlcmfmuyeyhgncO.vfrcmfmuyeyhgc.mcsrk,cjfk
grorxkprdrmmcmfmuyeyhgncXfurxkcJ.qkrxci.mchgrchlckphmrc rgciphmrcepyrl
ep.x.ekrxymkyecymc.cwymuhmykyhgckhcmfmurekckpryxclrddhimncPrcwywcghk
mfmurekckpr chlckpymchxckp.kcwrlygykrcexy r:cprcmy udscmfmurekrwckpr n
Prcp.wcghkcsrkcwrlygykrdsc.eefmrwcUm ykpcygcpymc ygwchlc.gscmureylye
khxkchxc .dlr.m.gerncPrc rxrdscp.wc.cgrjfdhfmclrrdygvckp.kcprcihfdw
jr.xci.kepygvn

 ymmcUr.orscghicldfkkrxrwc.v.ygcygkhckprcergkxrchlckpygvmncHgckpr
.xxyo.dchlcJ.qkrxcmprcp.wciykpwx.igclhxc.c h rgkcygkhckprcj.ezvxhfgw,
jfkcmprci.mcghkckprcih .gckhcmk.sckprxrcdhgvncMprce. rclhxi.xwcphdwygv
hfkc.cm .ddchjdhgvcjhhz,cipyep,ciykpc.cd.gvfympygvclyx grmm,cmpr
uxrmmrwcygkhcUm ykp’mcp.gwmn

“EhfdwcYcurxmf.wrcshf,c xnc eKhww,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orscudr.wygvds,c“kh
ixykrcmh rcdykkdrckphfvpkcygc sc.fkhvx.up-jhhzc.gwcmyvgcyk?cYcp.orc.
lhfgk.yg-urgn”

Dyvpkcldhhwrwckprc.xjhfxncKprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrx,ciphczgriciprxr
rorxskpygvci.m,cp.wclhfgwc.gwcuxrmmrwckprcmiykepncPrcwywckpymcghkcmh
 fepckhchjdyvrc ymmcUr.orsc.mckhcrg.jdrcpy ckhchjk.ygc.cedr.xrxcoyri
hlckprcoymykhxncIykpcr.epc ygfkrckp.kcu.mmrwckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxci.m
lygwygvcpy mrdlc hxrc.gwc hxrcwhfjklfdcygcpymc ygwc.jhfkckpymcoymykhxn

“Kprxr!”cm.ywc ymmcUr.ors,cirdeh ygvckprcyddf yg.kyhgn

Um ykpck.uurwcpymcepygckphfvpklfddsciykpckprclhfgk.yg-urgncPrclrdk
kp.kcprcmphfdwcp.orclhxrmrrgckpymcr rxvrgescr.xdyrxncYlcrorxckprxrci.m
.cih .gciphci.mcjhfgwckhcp.orc.gc.fkhvx.up-jhhz,ckp.kcih .gci.mc ymm
Ur.orsn

“Tfmkcmh rcdykkdrckphfvpkcncncn”

Um ykpcprmyk.krwcghcdhgvrxncYgc.clyx cp.gwcprcixhkrckprcihxwmc“.exhmm
kprcu.drcu.x.jhd.chlcThscncncn”c.wwrwc.gcfgl.dkrxygvc“X.dmkhgc eKhww,”
.gwcp.gwrwckprcjhhzcj.ezn

“Phicmkx.gvr,”cmyvprwc ymmcUr.orsn

“ .scYcdhhz?”cm.ywcJ.qkrx,c hoygvcbfyezdsckhcprxcmywrn

“Phicmkx.gvr!”cxrur.krwc ymmcUr.orsnc“Khckpygzckp.kcshfcmphfdwcp.or
ephmrgckp.kcdygr!cKprxrc.xrcmrorx.dchlcshfxc hxrc smkyecu.mm.vrmckp.kcY
 r.gkckhc.mzcshfckhcrqud.yg,cjfkcu.xkyefd.xdsc‘.exhmmckprcu.drcu.x.jhd.
hlcThs’cncncn”

“Shfclygwcykcwyllyefdkckhcfgwrxmk.gw?”

“.cdykkdr,cYcehglrmmn”

“Irdd,cirdd,”cm.ywcUm ykpcygwfdvrgkds,c“urxp.umcYcwywcufkc.cjykchl
khu-muygchgckp.kchgrn”

“Ycjrvcshfxcu.xwhg?”

“Ycm.s,curxp.umcykcymc.cdykkdrchjmefxrncIrc fmkcp.orc.cdhgvcep.kc.jhfk
yk--d.krxchgn”

“Ipscghkcghi?”cwr .gwrwckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrx,cld.mpygvcpymcmurek.edrmn

“Yc. cx.kprxckyxrw,”cm.ywcUm ykpciykpcvrgkdrcxruxh.ep,c“.lkrxc s
thfxgrsncL.kyvfrwncIrc.xkymkmcncncn”

“Hlcehfxmr,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.ors,ciykpc.gcygwyvg.gkcvd.gerc.kckpr
mrexrk.xsnc“ xncJ.qkrxcwhrmcghkcfgwrxmk.gwckprcmrgmykyorcuhrkye
kr urx. rgkn”

“.cjykcfgmuyxykf.d,crp?”cm.ywcUm ykpckhdrx.gkdsnc“.ckxyldrcr.xkps?cMh
Yckphfvpk,cmhcYckphfvpkncHgrchlckprmrcmkxhgv,cp.xwc rgchlc.ll.yxm,cY
mphfdwg’kcihgwrxn”

“Mp.ddcircvhc.gwclygwcDhxwcR mihxkp,c xnc eKhww?”cm.ywc ymmcUr.ors,
wym ymmygvckprclrx rgkygvcJ.qkrxciykpc.cmehxglfdcdhhznc“Prci.gwrxrwchll
tfmkcghincYcmfuuhmrcprcymc. hgvcpymcldhirxmncLdhirxmc.xrcorxscjr.fkylfd
jscgyvpkn”

“Ygwrrw,csrm,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“.gwc.dmhcjscw.sncIprgcYc. cmfxxhfgwrwcjs
ldhirxm,c.cmhxkchlcwyoygrcur.ercldhhwmchorxc r,c.gwckprcxhfvp,cp.xmp
ihxdwcmrr mcl.xc.i.sncYclrrdcmhhkprw,ckx.gbfydncYcmh rky rmckpygz,c ymm
Ur.ors,ckp.kcldhirxmc fmkcjrckprcmhfdmchlcdykkdrcepydwxrgciphcp.orcwyrw
ygckpryxcygghergern”

“Ip.kc.cjr.fkylfdckphfvpk,c xnc eKhww!”crqed.y rwc ymmcUr.ors
x.ukfxhfmdsn

“Srm,”c.vxrrwcUm ykpnc“Whg’kcuygepcykncYk’mcehusxyvpkn”

Kprcw.xzgrmmcmi.ddhirwckpr cfuncD.wscEhgmk.gerckfxgrwckhckprcRllyeyrgk
J.qkrx,ciphci.mcjxhhwygvciykpclfxxhirwcjxhin

“Ep.x ygv,cymcprcghk?”

“Ycjrvcshfxcu.xwhg?”

“Ycm.ywcYckphfvpkc xnc eKhwwci.mcep.x ygvn”

“Hp,cbfykrn”

“Eh udrkrdscfgmuhydrwn”

“Hp,cwreywrwdsn”

“Yc. cmhcvd.wckp.kcprci.mc.jdrckhceh rc.lkrxc.ddncKp.kckrdrvx. cprcmrgk
kpymc.lkrxghhgce.gerddygvcpymcoymykcmrr rwcmhcefxkc.gwclyg.dn”

“MhcYckphfvpkcykn”

“.d hmkc.mcylcprcp.wck.zrgchllrgerc.kcmh rkpygvc.gwcwreywrwckhcp.or
ghkpygvckhcwhciykpcfmn”

“Bfykrn”

D.wscEhgmk.gercmpyorxrwcwrdye.krdsnc.cehhdcjxrrarcp.wcmuxfgvcfuncMpr
wxricprxcix.uc hxrcedhmrdsc.jhfkcprxcmp.urdscmphfdwrxm,c.gwcjrv.gckh
i.dzckhckprcphfmrncJ.qkrxcwywcghkc.eeh u.gscprxncKprc h rgkcmprcp.w
vhgrcprcmiykeprwchllckprcdyvpkc.gwcm.kcwhig,cepygcygcp.gwncKp.kc .mmyor
jx.ygci.mcihxzygvcp.xwn




EP.UKRXcOYYY

EHGLYWRGERMcHGcKPRcD.ZR


§c1

“ ymmcP.ddyw.s,”c.gghfgerwckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrx,cxr hoygvc.ghkprx
drkkrxclxh cykmcrgordhurc.gwcmfj ykkygvcykckhc.cmiylk,czrrgcmexfkygs,
“.xxyormc.kc.jhfkckpxrrckh-w.sncMprcymce.kepygvckprckirdor-lylksckx.ygn”

Prcud.erwckprcdrkkrxchgckprcuydrcjrmywrcpymcud.kr;c.gw,cp.oygv
wre.uyk.krwc.gcrvv,currxrwcmp.xudscygkhcykmcygkrxyhxc.mcylcphuygv
khcmfxuxymrcvfydkscmrexrkmncLhxcykci.mckprcjxr.zl.mkcphfx,c.gwckpr
 r jrxmchlckprcphfmrcu.xks,cme.kkrxrwcfuc.gwcwhigckprcdhgvck.jdr,cirxr
lhxkylsygvckpryxckymmfrmc.v.ygmkc.ghkprxcw.snc.gc.vxrr.jdrcmergkchl
j.ehgcldh.krwchorxckprcmergrcdyzrc.cjrgrwyekyhgn

DhxwcR mihxkpcdhhzrwcfuclxh ckprcmrrwce.k.dhvfrcygcipyepcprci.m
y  rxmrwncLhxcmh rcky rcu.mkcpymcrgths rgkchlckprc r.dcp.wcjrrgc .xxrw
jsc.co.vfrcmrgmrchlcmh rkpygvc ymmygv,c.gwcghicprczgricip.kcykci.mn

“Ehllrr!”cprcm.yw,cghkcoyhdrgkds,cjfkcygckprcohyerchlc.cvhhwc .g
huuxrmmrwnc“Yci.gkcehllrrncIpscp.orcYcghcehllrr?cEhgmk.ger,c scwr.x,cY
mphfdwcp.orcehllrrncIpscp.orcYcghgr?”

“Y’ cmfxrcYcv.orcshfcmh r,”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.ger,cjxyvpkdscuxrmywygv
horxckprcjrorx.vrmc.kckprchkprxcrgwchlckprck.jdrn

“Kprgciprxrcymcyk?”cwr .gwrwcpymcdhxwmpyucedygepygvdsn

J.qkrx--.d hmkcxrvxrklfdds,cykcmrr rw--v.orckprcrvvc.cedr.gcjyddchl
pr.dkp,c.gwckfxgrwcygcpymc.jdrci.sckhcehurciykpckpymcwh rmkyecuxhjdr n

“Shfxcehllrrcymcjrpygwckprce.k.dhvfrcshfc.xrcxr.wygv,cDhxwcR mihxkpn
Shfcuxhuurwckprce.k.dhvfrc.v.ygmkcshfxcefun”

“WywcY?cWywcY?cIps,cmhcYcwyw!cJdrmmc scmhfd!”cPymcdhxwmpyu,cxrdyrorw,
khhzc.gcygoyvhx.kygvcmyunc“Ip.kcirxrcshfcm.sygvctfmkckprg,c scwr.x
lrddhi?”

“Ycp.orcp.wc.cdrkkrxclxh c ymmcP.ddyw.s,”cm.ywcJ.qkrxnc“Mprcixykrmckp.k
mprcymce.kepygvckprckirdor-lylksckx.ygc.kcU.wwygvkhg,cipyepc r.gmckp.k
mprcmphfdwc.xxyorc.kc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmc.kc.jhfkckpxrrn”

“Iph,”c.mzrwc ymmcUr.ors,cygc.cdhi,ckpxyddygvcohyer,cer.mygvclhxc.
 h rgkckhcurezc.kcprxcud.krchlczrwvrxrr,c“ymc ymmcP.ddyw.s?”

“Kprcrq.ekcbfrmkyhgcYci.mc.jhfkckhc.mzc smrdl,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkpn
“J.qkrx,c scwr.xclrddhi,ciphcymc ymmcP.ddyw.s?”

J.qkrx,ciykpc.cmkyldrwcmyvp,ci.mc.jhfkckhcxrlxrmpcpymcr udhsrx’m
 r hxs,ciprgcUm ykpc.gkyeyu.krwcpy ncUm ykpcp.wcjrrgcehgmf ygvckh.mk
.gwc .x .d.wrciykpcpymcefmkh .xscd.gvfywcvx.erc.gwcfuckyddcghicp.w
lyx dsceprezrwc.ddc.kkr ukmckhcrgv.vrcpy cygcehgorxm.kyhgn

“ ymmcP.ddyw.s,”cprcm.yw,c“ymc.corxschdwc.gwco.dfrwclxyrgwchlc ygrncIr
kihcp.or,cmhckhcmur.z,cufddrwckprcvhi.gmclygrncYcp.wcjrrgcphuygvckh
pr.xckp.kcmprcp.wcjrrgcmyvpkrwchgckprcphxyahgn”

Kprcrllrekchlckprmrcihxwmchgckihchlckprceh u.gsci.mcmh rip.k
xr .xz.jdrncJ.qkrx,cpr.xygvckpr ,cv.orcmfepc.coyhdrgkcmk.xkckp.k
prcmuyddrwcp.dlckprcehgkrgkmchlcpymcefu:c.gwcLxrwwyr,ciphcp.wcjrrg
ldykkygvcdyzrc.cjfkkrxldsc. hgvckprcwymprmchgckprcmywrjh.xwc.gwcp.w
tfmkcwreywrwckhcprducpy mrdlckhcmex. jdrwcrvvm,cwruhmykrwc.cdyjrx.d
muhhglfdchgckprce.xurk,ciprxrcykci.mclhfgwc.gwcm.do.vrwc.c h rgkcd.krx
jscD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcmu.gyrdn

Um ykpcwywcghkchjmrxorckprmrcuprgh rg.,clhxcprcp.wcxrkfxgrwckhcpym
kh.mkc.gwc .x .d.wrncPrckpfmc ymmrwcrgehfgkrxygvcurxp.umckprczrrgrmk
vd.gerckp.kcp.wcrorxceh rckpxhfvpcXfurxkcJ.qkrx’mcmurek.edrmncYkci.m
ghkc.cuxhkx.ekrwcvd.ger,cjfkcipydrcykcd.mkrwcykci.mcdyzrckprcx.sclxh 
.gchqs-.erksdrgrcjdhiuyurn

“.clxyrgwchlcshfxm?”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkpnc“Ygwrrw?cHlcehfxmr,cJ.qkrx,
Ycxr r jrxcghinc ymmcP.ddyw.scymckprcshfgvcd.wsciphcymceh ygvckh
e.k.dhvfrckprcdyjx.xsn”

“Ip.kc.cwrdyvpklfdck.mz!”cehhrwc ymmcUr.orsnc“Khcdyorc. hgvckpr
mkhxrw-fuckphfvpkmchlcwr.wc.gwcvhgrcvrgyfm!”

“Shfcp.wcjrkkrxcvhcwhigc.gwc rrkcprx,c scwr.xclrddhi,”cm.ywcDhxw
R mihxkpnc“.kckprcmk.kyhg,cshfczghi,”cprcehgkygfrw,ced.xylsygvcpym
 r.gygvnc“Mprciyddcjrcvd.wckhcmrrcshfn”

“Yci.mc.jhfkckhcmfvvrmkcykc smrdl,”cm.ywcUm ykpn

“Kphfvpcipsckprcdyjx.xscgrrwmce.k.dhvfygv,”cm.ywcpymcdhxwmpyu,
xrkfxgygvckhc.cuxhjdr cipyepcmkyddcorqrwcpymcmhfdciprgcprcp.wcdrymfxr
khcvyorc.ckphfvpkckhcyk,c“Yce.g’kcncncncPhirorxcncncn”

Prclygymprwcpymcehllrrc.gwcxhmrclxh ckprck.jdrnc.cmkx.scmp.lkchl
mfgdyvpkcp.wcl.ddrgcuxhohe.kyordschgcpymcj.dwcpr.w,c.gwcmfgmpygrc.di.sm
 .wrcpy cxrmkyorn

“.xrcshfcvhygvckhcshfxcldhirxm,cDhxwcR mihxkp?”c.mzrwc ymmcUr.orsn

“Rp?cIp.k?cSrmncHp,csrmncVhygvckhcp.orc.cdhhzc.kckphmrcdhjrdy.mn”

“Yciyddc.eeh u.gscshf,cylcYc .s,”cm.ywcUm ykpn

“Rp?cIps,cerxk.ygds,cerxk.ygdsn”

“Ycp.orc.di.smcprdw,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“kp.kckprxrcymcghclygrxckhgyeckp.gc.
vhhwcdhhzc.kc.cdhjrdy.cy  rwy.krdsc.lkrxcjxr.zl.mkncWhekhxm,cYcjrdyror,
xreh  rgwcykn”

“Hp,cYcm.s,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrcp.mkyds,c.mcprcxr.eprwckprcwhhx,c“e.gcYcp.or
.cehfudrchlcihxwmciykpcshfc.cjykcd.krxchg?”

“.ckphfm.gwcylcshfciympcyk,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Shfciyddclygwc rcmh riprxr
hfkckprxrcygckprcvxr.kchurgcmu.ermciprxrc rgc.xrc rgn”

Prcygedfwrwckprcrgkyxrceh u.gscygc.cjrgrohdrgkcm ydr,c.gwcdrlkckprcxhh n

“Phicep.x ygvcprcym!”cmyvprwc ymmcUr.orsnc“Whg’kcshfckpygzcmh,c xn
J.qkrx?”

KprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxcmrr rwclhxc.c h rgkckhclygwcmh rcwyllyefdkscyg
xrudsygvn

“Hp,corxs,”cprcm.yw,cjfkcghkcpr.xkydsn

“.gwcmfepc.c_mhfd_!cYkcmpygrmchgckp.kcihgwrxlfdcjxhichlcpym,cwhrmg’k
yk?”

“Prcp.mc.cvhhwclhxrpr.w,”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.gernc“JfkcYciympcprcihfdwg’k
ir.xcpymcp.yxcmhcmphxkncMh rphicykc .zrmcpy cmrr cfgdyzrc.cuhrkn”

Lxrwwyr,c.d.x rw,cmi.ddhirwc.c hfkplfdchlcmex. jdrwcrvvn

“Hp,cpr’mc.cuhrkc.ddcxyvpk,”cprcm.ywcp.mkydsn

“Irdd,cxr.dds,cLxrwwyr,”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.ger,cuybfrw,c“Yckpygzcir
p.xwdscgrrwc_shf_ckhckrddcfmckp.kn”

“Gh,cgh,chlcehfxmrncJfkcip.kcYc r.gcym,cygcmuykrchlcpymcir.xygvcpym
p.yxcmphxk,cshfczghin”

“Ycorgkfxrwckhcmur.zckhcpy chlckp.kcsrmkrxw.s,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.ors,c“.gw
prcm.ywcprcx.kprxcrqurekrwckhcjrcir.xygvcykcrorgcmphxkrxcorxscmhhgn”

“Lxrwwyr!”cexyrwcD.wscEhgmk.gerciykpc.murxyksnc“Ip.kc_.xr_cshfcwhygv?”

.cjxhigcd.zrchlckr.ci.mclyddygvckprcuhxkyhgchlckprck.jdredhkp
y  rwy.krdschuuhmykrckprcPhgncLxrwrxyezcKpxrruihhwncDyzrckprcRllyeyrgk
J.qkrxc.clric ygfkrmcjrlhxr,cmfwwrgcr hkyhgcp.wce.fmrwcpy ckhcfumrkcpym
efun


§c2

Kprcmexfkygschlcpymcdhxwmpyu’mcdhjrdy.mcp.wcu.ddrwcfuhgcUm ykpc.k
.cl.yxdscr.xdscmk.vrcygckprcuxherrwygvm,c.gwcprci.mcmykkygvchgckpr
krxx.erci.ddcrgthsygvc.c rwyk.kyorceyv.xrkkrciprgcLxrwwyrclhfgwcpy n

“.p,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“irdeh rckhcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdr!
Shfcm.ywcmh rkpygvc.jhfkciympygvckhcp.orcmurrepciykpc r,cylcYcxr r jrx
xyvpkds?”

KprcPhgncLxrwwyrcmphkc.cgrxohfmcvd.gerc.jhfkcpy ,c.gwcmr.krwcpy mrdlchg
kprci.ddn

“Ycm.s,”cprcm.yw,c“Yciympcshfcihfdwg’kcm.sckpygvmcdyzrckp.kn”

“Dyzrcip.k,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw?”

“Ip.kcshfcm.ywckhckprcUr.orscih .gn”

“Ycxrehddrekcp.oygvc.cxrlxrmpygvcep.kciykpc ymmcUr.orscsrmkrxw.s
.lkrxghhg,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“jfkcYce.gghkcxre.ddcm.sygvc.gskpygv
e.defd.krwckhcjxygvckprcjdfmpchlcmp. rckhckprceprrzchlc hwrmksncIp.k
hjmrxo.kyhgchlc ygrci.mcykckp.kc rrkmciykpcshfxcergmfxr?”

“Ips,ckp.kcmkfllc.jhfkcrqurekygvckhcir.xcshfxcp.yxcmphxkrxncYlcshf’xr
vhygvckhcvhc.jhfkcm.sygvckp.kcmhxkchlckpygv--irdd,cw.mpcyk,cshfc yvpk
tfmkc.mcirddcvyorckprciphdrcj.ddscmphic.i.sc.kchgerc.gwcp.orcwhgrciykp
ykn”

Um ykpcghwwrwcvx.ordsn

“Shfxcvrgrxhfmcpr.k,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,cymcghkcfgtfmkylyrwncYkci.m
fgwhfjkrwdsc.gcrxxhxchlctfwv rgkncYlcYcp.orc.cl.fdk--ipyepcYc. cghk
uxru.xrwckhc.w yk--ykcymc.curxp.umcfgvrgkdr .gdscwrmyxrckhcufddckp.k
efxyhfmclr .dr’mcdrvnc.cmkxhgvrxc .gckp.gc smrdlc yvpkcirddclygwcyk
p.xwckhcj.kkdrc.v.ygmkckprckr uk.kyhgncPhirorx,cghickp.kcshfcp.or
e.ddrwcykckhc scghkyer,cykcmp.ddcghkcheefxc.v.ygncYgclfkfxrcYciydd
 hwrx.krckprcurxmyld.vrncEprrxcfu,ckprxrlhxr,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,
.gwcdrkcfmcmrrckp.kc rxxscm ydrchlcshfxm,chlcipyepcYcpr.xcmfepcvhhw
xruhxkmn”

Kprc.uur.dcl.ydrwckhc.ddroy.krcLxrwwyr’mcvdhh ncPrcm hkrc hxhmrdsc.kc.
ldscipyepcp.wcmrkkdrwchgcpymclfxxhirwcjxhin

“Y’ cvrkkygvc.mctf usc.mc.ce.k,”cprcm.ywn

“Lyvpkc.v.ygmkckpymcfg .gdscir.zgrmm,”cfxvrwcUm ykpnc“.mcl.xc.mcYce.g
mrr,crorxskpygvcymcvhygvc.dhgvcgyerdsn”

“Y’ cghkcmhcmfxrncYcjrdyrorckp.kcjdyvpkrxcJ.qkrxcmfmurekmcmh rkpygvn”

“Ip.kcwhcshfckpygzcprcmfmurekm?”

“Ips,ckp.kckprxr’mcmh rkpygvclympsc.jhfkcshfn”

Um ykpciygerwn

“Ycihfdwcjrcyglygykrdschjdyvrwckhcshf,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,cylcshfcihfdw
ghkcfmrckp.kcu.xkyefd.xc.wtrekyorncYkc.i.zrgmchdwc r hxyrm,c.ddcorxs
u.yglfdncJfkcdrkcfmcvhc hxrcwrrudscygkhckpymc .kkrx,clhxcshfcygkrxrmk
 rcmkx.gvrdsncIpscwhcshfckpygzckp.kceprrxschdwcJ.qkrx,c.cwrdyvpklfd
urxmhg.dykscylcrorxcYc rkchgr,cmfmurekmc r?”

“Yk’mckprci.scprcdhhzmc.kcshfn”

“Yczghicip.kcshfc r.g,cjfkcYc.kkxyjfkrcghcy uhxk.gerckhcyknc.mcl.x
.mcYcp.orcjrrgc.jdrckhc.merxk.ygcwfxygvc scjxyrlcoymyk,cprcdhhzmc.k
rorxsjhwsc.gwcrorxskpygvcygcuxreymrdsckprcm. rci.sncHgdscd.mkcgyvpkc.k
wyggrxcYchjmrxorwcpy cvd.xygvciykpczrrgc ymkxfmkc.kc.jhfkc.mcjd. rdrmm
.gwcygghergkc.cud.krchlcedr.xcmhfuc.mci.mcrorxcwymprwcfuncPrckprg
uxherrwrwckhcmphordcykcwhigciykpcbfykrcfgwymvfymrwcxrdympncMhcuhmmyjds
shfc.xrc.ddcixhgvc.jhfkcpymc hkyorclhxcdhhzygvc.kc rcdyzrckp.kncYkc .s
jrc.w yx.kyhgn”

“Irdd,cYcwhg’kcdyzrcykn”

“Ghx,clxh c.gcæmkprkyecuhygkchlcoyri,cwhcYncJfkcirc fmkcjr.xckprmr
kpygvmc .glfddsncIrc fmkcxr ygwchfxmrdormckp.kcykcymcJ.qkrx’m
 ymlhxkfgrcx.kprxckp.gcpymcl.fdkckp.kcprcdhhzmcdyzrc.cwsmurukyecdya.xwn”

Lxrwwyrci.mcghkckhcjrcehgmhdrwncPymcvdhh cwrrurgrwn

“.gwcykcymg’kchgdscJ.qkrxn”

“Ip.kcrdmrcymchgcshfxc ygw?”

“Kprciphdrc.k hmuprxrchlckprcud.ercymcvrkkygvcxf  s,cylcshfczghicip.kcY
 r.gn”cPrcjrgkckhi.xwmcUm ykpc.gwcipymurxrwcu.ddywdsnc“Ycm.s,cYcjrdyror
kp.kcgricphfmr .ywcymc.cwrkrekyor!”

Um ykpcrsrwcpy cu.kyrgkdsn

“Ipyepcgricphfmr .yw,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw?cJxhhwygv,c.mcYcwh,cuxrkks
krgmrdsc.ddckprcky rchgcwrruc.gwcihgwrxlfdcmfjtrekm,cYcp.orcdykkdr
drymfxrckhczrruck.jchgckprcwh rmkyecmk.llnc_Ym_ckprxrc.cgricphfmr .yw?”

“SrmncMfm.g,cprxcg. rcymn”

“Mfm.g?cMfm.g?cKp.kcmhfgwmc.ddcxyvpkncTfmkckprcg. rc.cxr.dcphfmr .yw
ihfdwcp.orn”

“Wywcshfcrorx,”cwr .gwrwcLxrwwyrcr.xgrmkds,c“mrrc.cxr.dcphfmr .ywcmirru
fgwrxc.cjfxr.f?”

“Whrmcmpr?”

“E.fvpkcprxc.kcykcygc scxhh ckpymc hxgygvn”

“Jfkcymg’kcykc.ckxyldrcl.x-lrkeprwckhcy .vygrckp.kcmprcymc.cwrkrekyor?
Ipscmphfdwcmprcjrc.cwrkrekyor?”

“Irdd,cY’orcmrrgcmfepc.cw.mprwcdhkchlclyd mciprxrckprcphfmr .ywchxckpr
u.xdhfx .ywchxcip.kcghkcirxrcwrkrekyormnc .zrmc.clrddhicfgr.msn”

“Lhxkfg.krds,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“kprxrcymcghcgrermmyksckhcxr .ygcygc.cmk.kr
hlcwhfjkncYce.gcvyorcshfc.gcfgl.ydygvc rkphwcjsc r.gmchlcipyepcshfc .s
wymehorxcylcmprcymcip.kcmprcihfdwcp.orcfmcjrdyrorcprxn”

“Ip.k’mckp.k?”

“Zymmcprxn”

“Zymmcprx!”

“UxreymrdsncVhckhcprxc.gwcm.s,c‘Mfm.g,cshf’xrc.corxscuxrkkscvyxdcncncn’”

“Jfkcmprcymg’kn”

“Irciyddc.mmf r,clhxcufxuhmrmchlc.xvf rgk,ckp.kcmprcymncVhckhcprxc.gw
m.s,c‘Mfm.g,cshfc.xrc.corxscuxrkkscvyxdncIp.kcihfdwcshfcwhcylcYcirxr
khczymmcshf?’cYlcmprcymc.cwrkrekyor,cmprciyddcxruds,c‘Phicw.xrcshf,
myx!’chx,cuhmmyjds,c hxrcmy uds,c‘Myx!’cIprxr.mcylcmprcymckprcvrgfygr
phfmr .ywcYcjrdyrorcprxckhcjrc.gwchgdscmirrumcfgwrxcjfxr.fqchfkchl
ufxrcar.d,cmprciyddcvyvvdrc.gwcxr .xz,c‘Hp,cwhg’kcjrcmydds,cmyx!’cShf
.uuxrey.krckprcwymkygekyhg?”

“Phicwhcshfczghi?”

“ scvx.gw hkprxckhdwc r,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhwnc sc.woyerckhcshf,cylckpr
mk.krchlcwhfjkcshfc.xrcygcymc.llrekygvcshfxcrgths rgkchlcdylr,cymckh
ufkckprc .kkrxckhckprckrmkc.kckprcr.xdyrmkcehgorgyrgkchuuhxkfgyksn”

“Y’ddckpygzcykchorx,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrcwfjyhfmdsn

Mydrgerclrddcfuhgcpy clhxc.cmu.er,c.gwcUm ykpci.mcirddcehgkrgkckhcp.or
ykcmhncPrcp.wcghcmureylyecgrrwchlcLxrwwyr’mcux.kkdrckhcprducpy crgths
kprcudr.m.gkcmfgmpygrc.gwckprcmergkchlc.gvfmc e.ddymkrx’mcyggf rx.jdr
ldhirxmncUxrmrgkds,cphirorx,cpymceh u.gyhgci.mchllc.v.ygncJfkcghickprxr
i.mc.cwyllrxrgkcghkrcygcpymcohyernc.d.x cmrr rwckhcp.orcvyorgcud.erckh
mh rkpygvcipyepc.uur.xrwckhcjrcr j.xx.mm rgkncPrcehfvprwcmrorx.dcky rm,
.gwcpymcgr.kds-mphwclrrk,cixykpygvcygcmrdl-ehgmeyhfmceyxedrm,cmex.urw
.v.ygmkckprci.ddn

“Ycm.s!”

“Shfcp.orchfxcr.xchgerc hxr,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,”cm.ywcUm ykpcuhdykrdsn

“Ycm.s,cip.kcYcxr.ddsce. rchfkcprxrckhck.dzc.jhfkci.mcmh rkpygvcrdmrn
Ycm.s,c.xrcshfcxr.ddsc.cu.dchlc ymmcP.ddyw.s’m?”

“.mmfxrwdsncIps?”

“Ycm.s!”c.cxhmscjdfmpc .gkdrwckprcPhgncLxrwwyr’mcshfgvceprrznc“Ycm.s,cY
iympcshfcihfdwcufkcygc.cihxwclhxc r,ckprgn”

“Ufkcygc.cihxwclhxcshf?”

Lxrwwyrcvfdurwn

“Ycdhorcprx,cw.mpcyk!”

“.cghjdrcr hkyhg,”cm.ywcUm ykpcehfxkrhfmdsnc“Iprgcwywcshfclrrdcyk
eh ygvchg?”

“Y’orcjrrgcygcdhorciykpcprxclhxc hgkpmncJfkcmprcihg’kcdhhzc.kc rn”

“Kp.k,chlcehfxmr,”c.vxrrwcUm ykp,c“ fmkcjrc.cwym.wo.gk.vrncSrm,cY
mphfdwcy .vygrckp.kckp.kcihfdwcmkyezckprcv.llcygkhckprcehfxmrchlckxfr
dhorckhcghcm .ddcrqkrgkn”

“Yc r.g,cihg’kck.zrc rcmrxyhfmds,c.gwc.ddckp.kncD.fvpmc.kc r,cwhg’kcshf
zghi,ciprgcYcuxhuhmrncIp.kcihfdwcshfcwh?”

“Ycmphfdwcmkhucuxhuhmygv,”cm.ywcUm ykp,cp.oygvcvyorgckprc .kkrxckphfvpkn

“JfkcYce.g’kn”

“Kfk,ckfk!”cm.ywcUm ykpcmrorxrdsnc“.gw,cygce.mrckprcrquxrmmyhgcymcgri
khcshf,cip.kcYc r.gcymc‘Uhhp,cuhhp!’cTfmkcm.sckhcshfxmrdl,c‘Lxh cghichg
Yciyddcghkcmk.xkcuxhuhmygvcfgkydc.lkrxcdfgepn’cKp.kcwhgr,cykciyddcjrc.g
r.mscmkruckhcwhcghcuxhuhmygvcwfxygvckprc.lkrxghhgnc.gwcjscwrvxrrmcshf
iyddclygwckp.kcshfce.gcvyorcykcfuc.dkhvrkprxncHgercshfcp.orcehgbfrxrw
kprcy ufdmrclhxckprc.lkrx-jxr.zl.mkcuxhuhm.d,ckprcxrmkciyddcjrcr.msn
Kprclyxmkchgrchlckprcw.scymc.di.smckprcp.xwrmkckhcwxhun”

“Ycjrdyrorcmprckpygzmc rc.c rxrcjfkkrxlds,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,ciphcp.wcghk
jrrgcdymkrgygvckhckpymc hmkco.df.jdrcph ydsn

Um ykpcmdywcwhigclxh ckprci.ddc.gwcmkxrkeprwcpy mrdln

“Ips,”cprcm.yw,c“.xrcjfkkrxldyrmcmhchlkrgcwrmexyjrwc.mc‘ rxr’?cY
p.orcpr.xwckpr cmhce.ddrwc.cpfgwxrwcky rm,c.gwcYce.gghkcfgwrxmk.gw
kprcxr.mhgncncncncIrdd,cykcihfdw,cghcwhfjk,cjrcjhkpcygkrxrmkygv
.gwcy uxhoygvckhcvhcygkhckprcuxhjdr ,cjfkc.kckpymcuhygk,cEh x.wr
Kpxrruihhw,cYcdr.orcshfncYcihfdwcjxhhwn”

“Srm,cjfk,cYcm.s,ciyddcshf?”

“IyddcYcip.k?”

“Ufkcygc.cihxwclhxc r?”

“Yl,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“kprcmfjtrekcexhumcfucygckprcehfxmrchlckpr
epyk-ep.k,cYcmp.ddcjrcwrdyvpkrwckhcmuxr.wc smrdlciykpcghcdykkdrcoy chg
kprckpr rchlcshfxclygrcbf.dykyrmn”

Prc rdkrwc.i.scygkhckprcmpxfjjrxs,ctfmkcygcky rckhc.ohywc ymmcUr.ors,
iphcjxhzrcygchgcLxrwwyr’mc rwyk.kyhgmc.c h rgkcd.krxc.gwczrukcpy 
eh u.gsckyddcdfgepn


§c3

Kprckirdor-lylksckx.ygcwxricfuciykpc.cvxygwygvchlcjx.zrmc.kckpr
ud.klhx chlc .xzrkcJd.gwygvm,c.gwcUm ykp,ciphcp.wcjrrgcipydygvc.i.sckpr
ky rchlci.ykygvcjscmbf.gwrxygvc hgrscipyepcprcehfdwcyddc.llhxwchgckpr
mdhk- .epygrcipyepcmfuudyrwcjfkkrx-mehkep,ckfxgrwc.gwcmfj ykkrwcykckhc.
vx.orcmexfkygsncRorcP.ddyw.scvhkchfkchlc.ckpyxw-ed.mmceh u.xk rgkn

“Irdeh rckhchfxcoydd.vr,c ymmcP.ddyw.s,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c.wo.geygvn

Rorcxrv.xwrwcpy ciykpclx.gzc.mkhgymp rgkn

“Ip.kc.xrcshfcwhygvcprxr?”cmprc.mzrwn

“DhxwcR mihxkpci.mczygwcrghfvpckhcmfvvrmkckp.k,c.mcircirxrcmfepchdw
lxyrgwm,cYcmphfdwceh rcwhigcygckprce.xc.gwc rrkcshfn”

“.xrcirchdwclxyrgwm?”

“MfxrdsncP.orcshfclhxvhkkrgc.ddckphmrcp.uuscw.smcygcDhgwhg?”

“Kprxrci.mchgdschgrn”

“KxfrncJfkckpygzcphic .gsc rrkygvmcircex.  rwcygkhcykn”

“.xrcshfcmk.sygvc.kckprce.mkdr?”

“Srmnc.gwcip.kcymc hxr,cYc. ckprcdylrc.gwcmhfdchlckprcu.xksncP.orcshf
.gskpygvcygckprcmp.urchlcdfvv.vr?”

“Ycgr.xdsc.di.smck.zrcdfvv.vrciprgcYc. cvhygvckhcmk.sc.c hgkpchxcmhcyg
kprcehfgkxsncYk’mc.kckprcj.ezcmh riprxrn”

“Yciyddcdhhzc.lkrxcykncShfciyddclygwckprce.xchfkmywrncYlcshfce.xrckhcvh
.gwcmykcygcyk,cYciyddcthygcshfcygc.c h rgknc.gw,cdrmkckprcky rcp.gvm
pr.oschgcshfxcp.gwm,ck.zrckpymncJfkkrx-mehkepncWrdyeyhfm,c.gw,cmhcY
fgwrxmk.gw,ciphdrmh rncYcjhfvpkcykcmurey.ddsclhxcshfn”

.clric ygfkrmcd.krx,cp.oygvc.xx.gvrwclhxckprckxfgzckhcjrck.zrgckhckpr
e.mkdr,cUm ykpcr rxvrwclxh ckprcmk.kyhgc.gwclhfgwcRorcwxygzygvcygckpr
jr.fkyrmchlckprckhigchlc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmn

“Ip.kc.cwrdyvpklfdchdwcud.er,”cmprcm.ywc.mckprscwxhorchllnc“Yc.d hmk
iympcYcdyorwcprxrn”

“Wfxygvckprcjxyrlcurxyhwchlc scmk.sc.kckprce.mkdr,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“kpr
m. rckphfvpkcp.mcheefxxrwckhc rncYkcymckprcmhxkchlcud.erciprxrchgr
lrrdmckp.kchgrcehfdwcvd.wdscmrkkdrcwhigcygkhc.cur.erlfdcxrkyxr rgkc.gw
vxhic.cphgrs-ehdhfxrwcjr.xwn”cPrcdhhzrwc.kcprxciykpcmhdr gc.w yx.kyhgn
“Ih rgc.xrcihgwrxlfd,”cprcm.ywn

“.gwcips,c xncJhgrm,c.xrcih rgcihgwrxlfd?”c.mzrwcRorn

“Yci.mckpygzygvc.kckprc h rgkchlcshfxc.uur.x.gerncShfcp.orctfmkcmkruurw
hllckprckx.ygc.lkrxc.clhfx-phfxcthfxgrs,c.gwcshfc.xrc.mclxrmpc.gw
jdhh ygvc.m--ylcYc .scehygc.cmy ydr--.cxhmrncPhicwhcshfcwhcyk?cIprgcY
.xxyorwcYci.mcwrrucygc.ddfoy.dcwruhmykm,c.gwcp.orchgdsctfmkc .g.vrwckh
mex.urckpr chlln”

“Iprgcwywcshfc.xxyor?”

“Hgckprcrorgygvchlckprcw.schgcipyepcYc rkcshfn”

“Jfkcyk’mcmhcrqkx.hxwyg.xsncKp.kcshfcmphfdwcjrcprxr,cYc r.gncYci.m
ihgwrxygvcylcYcmphfdwcrorxcmrrcshfc.v.ygn”cRorcehdhfxrwc.cdykkdr,c.gw
irgkchgcx.kprxcpfxxyrwdsnc“Yc r.g,cykcmrr mcmhcmkx.gvrckp.kcircmphfdw
.di.smcjrc rrkygvcdyzrckpymn”

“L.kr,cuxhj.jds,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Ycphurcykcymg’kcvhygvckhcmuhydcshfx
oymyk?”

“Hp,cghn”

“Ycehfdwcp.orcwhgrciykpc.ckxyldrc hxrcr up.mymchgckprcd.mkcihxw,”
m.ywcUm ykpcvrgkdsnc“Lhxvyorc rclhxcexykyeymygvcshfxc rkphwmchlcohyer
uxhwfekyhg,cjfkcmfxrdscshfce.gcmrrcphic fepcjrkkrxcykcihfdwcp.or
mhfgwrwcmuhzrgckpfm:c‘Hp,c_gh_!’”

Rorcd.fvprwn

“Orxscirdd,ckprg,”cmprcm.ywnc“Hp,c_gh_!”

“ fepcjrkkrx,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“ fepcjrkkrxn”

Prcjrv.gckhcmrrckp.kcykci.mcvhygvckhcjrcwyllyefdkckhcygkxhwferc.crfdhvs
hlckprcPhgncLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhwcygkhckpymcehgorxm.kyhgn

“Y’ corxscvd.wcshf’xrcprxr,”cm.ywcRor,cxrmf ygvckprck.dzc.lkrxc.cmdyvpk
u.fmrnc“Jre.fmr,c.mc.c .kkrxchlcl.ek,cY’ clrrdygvctfmkckprcdr.mkcjyk
grxohfmn”

“Grxohfm?cIps?”

“Kpymcymc sclyxmkcoymykckhc.cud.erchlckpymcmyarn”cKprce.xcp.wckfxgrw
ygc.kckprcjyvcmkhgrcv.krm,c.gwckprscirxrcjhidygvcm hhkpdscfuckpr
iygwygvcwxyorncKpxhfvpc.gc.orgfrchlckxrrmckhckprcxyvpkckprcvxr.kcjfdz
hlckprce.mkdrcp.wctfmkc.uur.xrw,cvxrsc.gwcy uhmygvc.v.ygmkckprcmzsn
Kprc.lkrxghhgcmfgcvdykkrxrwchgckprcd.zrcjrshgwcyknc“Ymcrorxskpygvcorxs
mk.krds?”

“Ghkc.kc.ddncIrc.xrcorxscph rdsclhdz,circhlcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdrncIrcvh
.jhfk,cmy udrc.gwcfg.llrekrw,cwxhuuygvcvx.eyhfmcihxwmc.ddchorxckpr
ud.erncDhxwcR mihxkpcwywg’kchorx.ircshf,cwywcpr?”

“Hp,cpr’mc.cwr.xnc.gw,chlcehfxmr,cYczghicLxrwwyrcbfykrcirddn”

Um ykpcghwwrwncYlcmprczgricLxrwwyrcbfykrcirdd,ckprxrci.mcg.kfx.ddscgh
grrwckhck.dzc.jhfkcpy ncPrcwywcghkck.dzc.jhfkcpy ,ckprxrlhxrn

“P.orcshfczghigcDhxwcR mihxkpcdhgv?”c.mzrwcRorn

“Yc rkcpy clhxckprclyxmkcky rckprcw.scYc rkcshfn”

“Vhhwcvx.eyhfm!”cRorcmk.xrwnc“.gwcprcygoykrwcshfckhckprce.mkdr?”

Um ykpcm hhkprwcpymci.ymkeh.kn

“Mkx.gvr,cYc.vxrrncHgrce.gchgdsc.eehfgkclhxcyk,ce.gchgrcghk,cjs
mfuuhmygvckp.kcYcx.wy.krcmh rcrqkx.hxwyg.xsc.kkx.ekyhgncP.orcshf
ghkyerwcyk?”

“Gh!”

“Gh?”cm.ywcUm ykp,cmfxuxymrwnc“.p,cirdd,”cprcirgkchgckhdrx.gkds,c“gh
whfjkcykciyddcld.mpcfuhgcshfcbfykrcfgrqurekrwdscmhhgrxchxcd.krxncDyzrc.
kpfgwrxjhdkchxcmh rkpygvn”

“Yckpygzcshf’xrckrxxyjdscehgerykrwn”

“Ghkc.kc.dd,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Ehgerykrw?cGh,cghncMfeermmcp.mcghkcmuhydrw
 rn”

“P.orcshfcp.wc.gscmfeermm?”

“Ghgrcip.krorxn”cKprce.xcmkhuurwnc“Ircvrkcwhigcprxr,”cm.ywcUm ykp,
hurgygvckprcwhhxn

“Prxr?cIps?”

“Jre.fmr,cylcircvhcfuckhckprcphfmr,cshfciyddcygl.ddyjdscjrcuhfgerwchg
.gwcmrkckhcihxzcjschgrcJ.qkrx--.cwrdyvpklfdclrddhi,cjfkc.cip.drclhx
khydncYcuxhuhmrckhcehgwfekcshfchgc.ckhfxcxhfgwckprcvxhfgwm,c.gwckprgcir
iyddcvhclhxc.cxhichgckprcd.zrncShfciyddcrgthsckp.kn”

“Shfcmrr ckhcp.orc .uurwchfkc sclfkfxrclhxc rn”

“Ycp.or,”cm.ywcUm ykpciykpcr up.mym,c.gwcygckprc hghedrwcrsrckp.kc rk
prxmcRorcwrkrekrwcmhcjr. ygvc.cvd.gerchlcrmkrr c.gwc.w yx.kyhgckp.kcmpr
xrkxr.krwci.xydscygkhcprxmrdlc.gwcrgwr.ohfxrwckhcjrclxyvywn

“Y’ c.lx.ywcYcp.org’kcky rckhci.gwrxc.jhfkckprcvxhfgwm,”cmprcm.yw
.dhhldsnc“Yc fmkcjrcvhygvc.gwcmrrygvc xncJ.qkrxn”

“J.qkrx,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“ymcghkchgrchlckprcg.kfx.dcjr.fkyrmchlckpr
ud.erncKy rcrghfvpckhcmrrcpy ciprgcshfc.xrceh urddrwckhcncncncIrc.xr
ghicygckprcmhfkprxgcudr.m.fgerchxckprcirmkcph r-u.xzchxcmh rkpygvncGhkr
kprcxrlygrwci.sckprcwrrxc.xrcexhuuygvckprcvx.mmnc.ddckprcvxhfgwchg
ipyepcirc.xrcghicmk.gwygvcymchlcpymkhxyecygkrxrmkncHdyorxcExh irddcirgk
kpxhfvpcprxrcygc1550ncKprcxrehxwcp.mcmygercjrrgcdhirxrwn”

“Ycp.org’kcky rcncncn”

“Dr.oygvckprcudr.m.fgerchgchfxcdrlk,circuxherrwckhckprcghxkprxg
 rmmf.vrncKprcw.gwrdyhgmcirxrcy uhxkrwclxh cRvsukcjsckprcgygkpcR.xdn”

“Irdd,c.gsphi,”cm.ywcRorc fkyghfmds,c“Ycihg’kceh rchgckprcd.zrn”

“Shfciyddcrgthsckprcd.zr,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Kprcgrikmc.xrchlckprcl. hfm
hdwcJd.gwygvmcmkx.ygncKprscirxrcygkxhwferw,ckhvrkprxciykpckpr
i.krx-jrrkdrm,cygckprcxryvgchlcBfrrgcRdya.jrkpncDhxwcR mihxkp,chl
ehfxmr,cphdwmc .ghxy.dcxyvpkmchorxckprc hmbfykh-mi.kkygvn”

Rorci.mc.cvyxdchlcpyvpc.gwcp.fvpkscmuyxyk,c.gwc.mcmfepcmkxhgvds
xrmrgkrwcjrygvc.uuxhuxy.krwc.gwcp.oygvcprxc hor rgkmcwyxrekrwcjschgr
iph,cygcmuykrchlcpymcmureyhfmced.y m,ci.mc.d hmkc.cmkx.gvrxncJfk
mh rphicmprclhfgwcprxceh u.gyhg’mcud.eywc.mmf ukyhgchlc.fkphxyks
p.xwckhcxrmymknc.d hmkc rrzdscmprc.eeh u.gyrwcpy ckpxhfvpc r.whic.gw
mpxfjjrxs,chorxcordorkcd.igmc.gwcu.mkcvdr. ygvcldhirx-jrwm,c.gwcprx
ygwyvg.kyhgcro.uhx.krwc.mcprxcrsrmc.jmhxjrwckprcjr.fkschlcykc.ddncMpr
v.orc.cdykkdrcmyvpncYlc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmcp.wcmrr rwc.cud.ercygcipyepchgr
 yvpkcwirddcp.uuyds,cJd.gwygvmcE.mkdrci.mc.cu.x.wymrn

“Jrlhxrcfmcghi,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“dyrmckprcerdrjx.krwcSric.ddrs,cmhce.ddrw
lxh ckprcsrimcipyepcpr cykcygncMur.zygvcygc sce.u.eykschlcvfywrckhckpr
rmk.kr,cYc .scm.sckp.kciprgcircp.orckfxgrwckpymcgrqkcehxgrxcshfciydd
mrrc.c hmkcxr .xz.jdrcmyvpkn”

.gwckprscwywncJrlhxrckpr ,c.mckprscu.mmrwcygcfgwrxckprcjhfvpmchlc.g
.vrwckxrrcd.sc.cvxrrgcoymk.,cl.ygkdscw.uudrwciykpcmkx.scmp.lkmchl
mfgmpygrncYgckprc ywwdrchlckpymcoymk.ckprcPhgncLxrwrxyezcKpxrruihhwci.m
r jx.eygvc.cshfgvcih .gcygckprcwxrmmchlc.cphfmr .ywn


§c4

Um ykpci.mckprclyxmkchlckprcdykkdrcvxhfuckhcxrehorxclxh ckprcmphezchl
kpymcfgrqurekrwcrgehfgkrx,ckprcPhgncLxrwwyrckprcd.mkncKp.kcfglhxkfg.kr
shfkp,c rrkygvcRor’mc.mkhgymprwcrsrc.mcprcx.ymrwcpymcpr.w,clxharciprxr
prcmkhhwc.gwcxr .ygrwciykpcpymc hfkpchurgcfgkydcmprcp.wcwym.uur.xrw,
ipyepcmprcwywc.clric h rgkmcd.krx,cdrwc.i.scjscUm ykp,ciph,c.mcpr
irgk,cwyxrekrwc.kcpymcshfgvclxyrgwc.cdhhzcygcipyepcmfxuxymr,cu.yg,c.gw
xruxhhlcirxrcmhcgyerdscjdrgwrwckp.kcykcihfdwcp.orcjrrgcp.xwckhcm.s
ipyepcuxrwh yg.krwnc.ddckp.kc.cmurek.khxcehfdwcp.orcm.ywciykpcerxk.ygks
i.mckp.kcUm ykp’mclygrxclrrdygvmcp.wcmfllrxrwc.cmrorxrcjdhin

“.cu.yglfdcmergr,”cprcxr .xzrwckhcRor,c.mcprcwxricprxc.i.scygckpr
wyxrekyhgchlckprcphfmrnc“Jfkcirc fmkc.di.smcmkxyorckhcjrcep.xyk.jdrncPr
 .scp.orcjrrgck.zygvc.cldschfkchlcprxcrsr,chxckr.epygvcprxctyf-tykmfn”

Prcdhhzrwc.kcprxcmr.xepygvdsn

“Shfcmrr cdrmmcxrohdkrw,”cprcm.yw,c“kp.gchgrc yvpkcp.orcrqurekrwn
Kpymc.xvfrmc.cmirrk,cmp.ddcircm.sc.gvrdyecwymuhmykyhgc.gwcehglyx mc s
.dxr.wscpyvpchuygyhgchlcshfn”

“Kp.gzcshfn”

“Ghkc.kc.ddnc .xzcshf,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“Ycwhg’kckpygzckp.kckpymcmhxkchl
kpygvcymc.cphjjschlcEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw’mncPrcuxhj.jdscp.mc .gschkprx
i.smchlcu.mmygvcpymcmu.xrcky rncXr r jrxckp.kcjrlhxrcshfcu.mmctfwv rgk
fuhgcpy nc.dmh--ShfgvcJdhhw,c.gwc.ddckp.kcmhxkchlckpygvn”

“Ycp.org’kc.gscygkrgkyhgchlcu.mmygvctfwv rgkcfuhgcpy ncYkcwhrmg’k
ygkrxrmkc rcip.kc xncKpxrruihhwcwhrm,crykprxcygcpymcmu.xrcky rchxchfk
hlcykn”

“Pymcygkrxrmkcygcshf,chgckprchkprxcp.gw,cymco.mkncYclhxvhkckhckrddcshf
jrlhxr,cjfkcprcdhormcshfncPrc.mzrwc rckhc rgkyhgcykcylckprcehgorxm.kyhg
p.uurgrwckhcorrxcxhfgwcygckp.kcwyxrekyhgn”

“Yczghicprcwhrm,”cm.ywcRorcxfrlfddsn

“.gwcwhrmckprcl.ekcmkyxcghcephxwcygcshf?”

“Yckpygzcpr’mc.cgfym.gern”

“Kp.k,”cm.ywcUm ykpcehxwy.dds,c“ymckprcxyvpkcmuyxykncYcdyzrckhcmrr
ykncOrxscirdd,ckprg,circiyddcwyme.xwckprckhuyechlcLxrwwyr,c.gwcYciydd
kxsckhclygwchkprxmckp.kc .scygkrxrmk,crdro.kr,c.gwc. fmrcshfncIrc.xr
ghic.uuxh.epygvckprc .ygcjfydwygvmncYc. cghcrqurxkcygc.xepykrekfxr,
mhce.gghkckrddcshfc.ddcYcehfdwciympc.jhfkckprcl.ç.wr,cjfkcshfce.gcmrr
kprxrc_ym_c.cl.ç.wr,c.gwcygc schuygyhg--lhxcip.kcykcymcihxkp--.cthdds
vhhwchgrncIrc.uuxh.epcjsc.cmirruygvcvx.ordci.dzn”

“Yc. cvhygvcygckhcxruhxkckhc xncJ.qkrx,”cm.ywcRorciykpcwreymyhgnc“Yk’m
khhc.jmfxwncYc fmkg’kcmurgwc scky rcmkxhddygvc.jhfkckprcvxhfgwmncYc fmk
mrrc xncJ.qkrxc.kchgern”

Um ykpcygedygrwcpymcpr.wcehfxkrhfmdsn

“Ghkpygvcr.myrxncKp.kcjyv,churgciygwhickprxrcymckprcdyjx.xsncWhfjkdrmm
Eh x.wrcJ.qkrxcymcmh riprxrcygmywr,ckhydygvc.i.sc. hgvckprc.xepyormn”

“Srm,cjfkcYce.g’kc.gghfgerc smrdlcjscmphfkygvckhcpy n”

“.mmfxrwdscghk,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Ghcgrrwclhxckp.kc.kc.ddncDr.orcykckh
 rn”cPrcmkhhurwc.gwcuyezrwcfuc.cd.xvrcldhirx-uhkcipyepcmkhhwcfgwrx
kprckrxx.erci.dd,c.gwcjrlhxrcRorcehfdwcygkrxorgrcp.wckhmmrwcyk
dyvpkdsckpxhfvpckprchurgciygwhinc.c flldrwckpfw,clhddhirwcjsc.cmp.xu
rqed. .kyhgclxh ciykpyg,ce.fmrwc.cl.ygkcm ydrchlcvx.kylye.kyhgckh
yddf ygrcpymcmhdr gcehfgkrg.gernc“Prc_ym_cygncYckphfvpkcprcihfdwcjrn
.p,cJ.qkrx,”cprcm.ywcvx.eyhfmds,c.mckprcfuurxcp.dlchlc.cjhwscmfx hfgkrw
jsc.cmurek.edrwcl.erclx. rwcykmrdlcmfwwrgdscygckprciygwhi,c“.cudr.m.gk,
mfggsc.lkrxghhgncPhicymcrorxskpygv?”

KprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxcmkxfvvdrwclhxcfkkrx.gern

“ShfcdhhzcdyzrckprcJdrmmrwcW. hardcv.aygvcwhigclxh ckprcvhdwcj.xchl
Pr.org,”cm.ywcUm ykpcvrgy.ddsnc“J.qkrx,cYci.gkckhcygkxhwfercshfckhc ymm
P.ddyw.sncMprc.xxyorwcm.lrdsc.lkrxc.cmh rip.kcl.kyvfygvcthfxgrsncShf
iyddcdyzrc ymmcP.ddyw.sncYlcYcp.wc.cdyjx.xs,cYcehfdwcghkciympclhxc.
 hxrcehfxkrhfm,chjdyvygv,c.gwce.u.jdrce.k.dhvfymkn”

Kpymcmkxyzygvc.gwcfgmhdyeykrwckrmky hgy.dc .wrcghc.uur.dckhckpr
RllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxncPymc ygwcmrr rwcheefuyrwciykpchkprxc .kkrxmn

“Wywcshfckpxhickp.kcldhirx-uhk?”cprcwr .gwrwcehdwdsn

“Shfciyddcghcwhfjk,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“iympchgcmh rcd.krxchee.myhgckhcp.or
.cgyercdhgvck.dzciykpc ymmcP.ddyw.scygchxwrxckhcvyorcprxc.gchfkdygrchl
prxcwfkyrmncYcp.orcjrrgcmphiygvcprxckprcvxhfgwmc.gwc. c.jhfkckhck.zr
prxclhxc.cxhichgckprcd.zrncJfkc.lkrxckp.kcmprciydd--.gwcYczghicYc .s
mur.zclhxc ymmcP.ddyw.scygckpymc .kkrx--jrcrgkyxrdsc.kcshfxcwymuhm.dn”

“Wywcshfckpxhickp.kcldhirx-uhk?”

“Ycdhhzclhxi.xwcehglywrgkdsckhckprcudr.m.gkrmkchlc.mmhey.kyhgmcjrkirrg
shfc.gwc ymmcP.ddyw.sncShfciyddclygwcprx,”cm.ywcUm ykpci.x ds,c“.
iyddygvc.mmymk.gk,c.ckyxrdrmmcihxzrxn”

“Wywcshfcncncnc?”

“Jfkcghi,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“Yc fmkcjrckr.xygvc smrdlc.i.sncYgchxwrxckh
y uxrmmc ymmcP.ddyw.s,cYcufkchgc scjrmkcmfykciprgcYcirgkckhc rrkcprxn
Lhxc.cxhicfuhgckprcd.zrcmh rkpygvcmy udrxcygcu.drcld.ggrdcymcygwye.krwn
Ycmp.ddchgdscjrc.clric ygfkrm,”cprcm.ywckhcRornc“Ihfdwcshfc ygwc rrkygv
 rc.kckprcjh.k-phfmr?”

“Yc. cghkceh ygvchgckprcd.zrciykpcshfn”

“.kckprcjh.k-phfmrcyg--m.s--myqc.gwc.cbf.xkrxc ygfkrm,”cm.ywcUm ykp
iykpc.cvrgkdrcm ydr,c.gwcux.gerwcygkhckprcphfmrcdyzrc.cdhgv-drvvrw
 fmk.gvn

Rorcxr .ygrwciprxrcmprcmkhhw,cmkxfvvdygvcjrkirrgcd.fvpkrxc.gw
r j.xx.mm rgkncKprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxci.mcmkyddcdr.gygvcix.kplfddschfkchl
kprcdyjx.xsciygwhi,c.gwcykcjrv.gckhcmrr c.cdykkdrcwyllyefdkckhce.xxschg
.gchxwyg.xscehgorxm.kyhgncKprcuxhjdr chlcip.kcmprci.mckhcm.scygchxwrx
khcehgkygfrckprcmergrcygc.gc.vxrr.jdrc .ggrxci.mcmhdorwcjsckprc.xxyo.d
hlcDhxwcR mihxkp,ciphcuhkkrxrwchfkclxh ckprcjfmprmciykpc.cx.zrcygcpym
p.gwncPrcmkhhwcrsrygvcRorclhxc.c h rgk,ckprgc r hxscmrr rwckhci.zrn
Ror’mc.uur.x.gerci.mcr.myrxckhcxr r jrx,cuhmmyjds,ckp.gcmh rchlckpr
kpygvmcipyepcpymcdhxwmpyuci.mcihgkckhclhxvrkncPrce. rclhxi.xwcjr. ygvdsn

“.p,ckprxrcshfc.xr,c ymmcncncncWr.xc r,cY’ cxr.ddsc.lx.ywcYcp.or
lhxvhkkrgcshfxcg. rnc sc r hxscymcrqerddrgkc.mc.cxfdr,cjfkcYce.gghk
xr r jrxcg. rmcncncnc ymmcP.ddyw.s!cHlcehfxmr,chlcehfxmrncJ.qkrx,c s
wr.xclrddhi,”cprcuxherrwrw,cmyvpkygvckprci.keprxc.kckprciygwhi,c“kpym
ymc ymmcP.ddyw.sn”

“ xnc eKhww,”cm.ywckprcRllyeyrgkcHgrcmhfxds,c“p.mc.dxr.wscygkxhwferwc r
khc ymmcP.ddyw.sn”

“P.mcpr?cWrferwceyoydchlcpy ,cwrferwceyoydchlcpy ncJfkciprxrc_ym_cpr?”
ygbfyxrwcpymcdhxwmpyu,cme.ggygvckprcmfxxhfgwygvcmergrxsciykpc.co.vfr
rsrn

“Prcirgkcygkhckprcphfmrnc.lkrx,”cm.ywcJ.qkrxcygc.cehdwcohyer,c“kpxhiygv
.cldhirx-uhkc.kc rn”

“Whygvcip.k?”

“Prckpxric.cldhirx-uhkc.kc r,”cm.ywcJ.qkrx,c.gwco.gymprwc hhwydsn

DhxwcR mihxkpcmk.xrwc.kckprchurgciygwhi,ckprgckfxgrwckhcRorclhx
rgdyvpkrg rgkn

“_Ips_cwywcJ.qkrxckpxhic.cldhirx-uhkc.kc eKhww?”cprcm.ywnc“.gw,”cpr
irgkchg,corgkyd.kygvc.gcrorgcwrrurxcbfrmkyhg,c“iprxrckprcwrfercwywcpr
vrkc.cldhirx-uhk?cKprxrc.xrcghcldhirx-uhkmcygckprcdyjx.xsn”

Ror,chgcprxcmywr,ci.mc.dmhcmrrzygvcyglhx .kyhgn

“Wywcshfcm.scpymcg. rci.mc eKhww,cDhxwcR mihxkp?”

“Gh,cghncJ.qkrxncKp.kci.mcJ.qkrx,c scmrexrk.xsn”

“Gh,cYc r.gckprchgrciphc rkc rc.kckprcmk.kyhgn”

“J.qkrxcwywcghkc rrkcshfc.kckprcmk.kyhgncKprc .gciphc rkcshfc.kckpr
mk.kyhg,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp,cmur.zygvcmdhids,clhxcih rgc.xrcmhc.ukckh
vrkckpygvmc fwwdrw,c“i.mc eKhwwncPr’mcmk.sygvcprxrncEhgmk.gerc.mzrw
py ,c.gwcY’ cjhfgwckhcm.sciprgcYclyxmkcpr.xwchlcykcYci.mcghkc.gsckhh
irddcudr.mrwncYcwhg’kcdyzrcuhrkmc.mc.cxfdrncJfkckpymclrddhi’mcmh
wyllrxrgkclxh ckprchkprxcuhrkmcY’orc rkncWyllrxrgkc.dkhvrkprxnc.gw,”
m.ywcDhxwcR mihxkpciykpcghkc.cdykkdrcpr.k,c“YcmkxhgvdschjtrekckhcJ.qkrx
kpxhiygvcldhirx-uhkmc.kcpy ncYcihg’kc_p.or_cJ.qkrxckpxhiygvcldhirx-uhkm
.kc scvfrmkm,”cprcm.ywclyx ds;clhxcDhxwcR mihxkp,ckphfvpchee.myhg.ddsc.
dykkdrco.vfr,ci.mczrrgdsc.dyorckhckprc.geyrgkckx.wykyhgmchlcpymcl. yds
xrv.xwygvcphmuyk.dyksn

“Ymc xnc eKhwwc.cuhrk?”cm.ywcRor,cprxcpr.xkcjr.kygvn

“Rp?cHpcsrm,csrmncKprxrcmrr mckhcjrcghcwhfjkc.jhfkckp.knc.cE.g.wy.g
uhrknc.uu.xrgkdsckprscp.orcuhrkmchfkckprxrnc.gw,”cwr .gwrwcpym
dhxwmpyu,crorxc.cl.yx- ygwrwc .g,c“ipscghk?c.cxr .xz.jdscvxhiygv
ehfgkxsncYci.mckprxrcygckprcsr.xc’98ncHxci.mcyk,”cprc.wwrw,
kphfvpklfddscu.mmygvc.c fwwscp.gwchorxcpymcepygc.gwcdr.oygvc.cxyep
jxhigcmk.yg,c“’99?cYclhxvrknc sc r hxscymg’kcvhhwclhxcw.krmncncncncYl
shfciyddcrqefmrc r,c ymm-- ymmcP.ddyw.s,chlcehfxmr--ylcshfciyddcrqefmr
 r,cYc fmkcjrcdr.oygvcshfncYcp.orckhcmrrc e.ddymkrx,c scpr.wcv.xwrgrxn
.gchjmkyg.krc .gnc.cMehkep .gncYlcshfcvhcygkhckprcphfmr,c scmymkrx
Ehgmk.gerciyddcvyorcshfc.cefuchlckr.ncYcwhg’kczghicip.kckprcky rcym,
jfkcYcmfuuhmrckprxrciyddcjrckr.cmhhgncGrorxck.zrcykc smrdln”

“ xnc eKhwwc.mzrwc rckhcvhclhxc.cxhichgckprcd.zrn”

“Hgckprcd.zr,crp?cHgckprc_d.zr_?”cm.ywcpymcdhxwmpyu,c.mcylckpymci.m
kprcd.mkcud.ercygckprcgryvpjhfxphhwciprxrcprcihfdwcp.orcrqurekrwckh
pr.xchlcurhudrcuxhuhmygvckhcxhincKprgcprcjxyvpkrgrwnc“Hlcehfxmr,csrm,
hgckprcd.zrncYckpygzcshfciyddcdyzrckprcd.zrncYck.zrc.cwyuckprxrc smrdl
rorxsc hxgygvcjrlhxrcjxr.zl.mkncYclygwcykcvhhwclhxckprcpr.dkpc.gw
.uurkykrncYcudfgvrcygc.gwcmiy curxp.umclylkscs.xwm,c.gwckprgcxrkfxgn”
DhxwcR mihxkpcmfmurgwrwckprcvhmmyuclxh ckprckx.ygygv-e. ucygchxwrxckh
dhhzc.kcpymci.kepnc“Wr.xc r,”cprcm.yw,c“Yc fmkcjrcvhygvnc e.ddymkrx
p.mcjrrgci.ykygvclfddsckrgc ygfkrmncVhhw-jsr,ckprg,clhxckprcuxrmrgk,
 ymm--rx--vhhw-jsrn”

.gwcDhxwcR mihxkpc. jdrwchll,chgcpymcl.erckp.kcdhhzchlckrgmr
ehgergkx.kyhgcipyepcykc.di.smcihxrciprgcygkrxoyrimciykpc.gvfm
 e.ddymkrxcirxrcygcuxhmurek--kprcdhhzcipyepcmkrxgci.xxyhxmcir.xciprg
.jhfkckhc rrkc.clhr .gcihxkpschlckpryxcmkrrdn


§c5

Kprxrci.mc.cehdwcrquxrmmyhgcygcRor’mcrsrmc.mcmprc .wrcprxci.scmdhids
khckprcjh.k-phfmrncKprcyglhx .kyhgcipyepcmprcp.wctfmkcxreryorwcp.w
eh rc.mc.cmphez,c.gwcmprci.mckxsygvckhc.wtfmkcprxc ygwckhcykncIprg
 ymmcEd.xzmhgcp.wckhdwcprxchlckprcfgp.uuscehgedfmyhgckhcprxchdwcmephhd
lxyrgw’mc .xxy.vrckhcX.dmkhgc eKhww,cmprcp.wcy  rwy.krds,ciykphfk
zghiygvc.gskpygvchlckprcl.ekm,c.xx.srwcprxmrdlcdhs.ddschgcEsgkpy.’m
mywrc.gwcehgwr grwckprcfgzghigc eKhwwcfgeh uxh ymygvdsc.gwciykphfk
prmyk.kyhgncYkci.mc .gscsr.xmcmygercmprcp.wcmrrgcEsgkpy.,c.gwckpryx
lxyrgwmpyuc yvpkc.d hmkcp.orcjrrgcm.ywckhcp.orcd.umrw;cjfkcRor’m
.llrekyhg,ciprgcmprcp.wchgercvyorgcyk,ci.mc.cwfx.jdrckpygv,ce.u.jdrchl
mfxoyoygvcdhgvcmru.x.kyhgncMprcp.wcdhorwcEsgkpy.c.kcmephhd,c.gwcmpr
ehfdwclrrdcghkpygvcjfkc.gy hmyksckhi.xwmc.gshgrciphcp.wckxr.krwcprx
j.wdsncMprcrsrwckprcvdykkrxygvci.krxchlckprcd.zrclxh cfgwrxcdhirxrw
jxhim,c.gwcuxru.xrwckhcjrclxyvywc.gwcphmkydrciprgckprcoydd.ygchlckpr
uyrercmphfdwc.xxyorncYkci.mchgdsciprgcmprcpr.xwclhhkmkrumcjrpygwcprx
.gwckfxgrwckhcurxeryorcUm ykpcpfxxsygvcfu,cx.wy.gkcygcvdr. ygvcld.ggrd,
kp.kcykcheefxxrwckhcprxclhxckprclyxmkcky rckp.kckprxrc yvpkcp.orcjrrg
l.fdkmchgcjhkpcmywrmncMprcp.wcghkczghigcUm ykpcdhgv,cykci.mckxfr,cjfk
.dxr.wscpymcurxmhg.dykscp.wc .wrc.cmh rip.kcwrrucy uxrmmyhgchgcprx,
.gwcmprci.mcdh.kpckhcjrdyrorckp.kcprcehfdwcjrckprce.ddhfmcmehfgwxrd
hlcprxcy .vyg.kyhgncMprcwreywrwckhcmfmurgwctfwv rgkcfgkydckprscmphfdw
jrchfkcygc yw-i.krxc.gwcygc.cuhmykyhgckhcwymefmmckprc .kkrxciykphfk
ygkrxxfukyhgn

“Yc. c.cdykkdrcd.kr,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c.mcprce. rcfunc“Yci.mcwrk.ygrwcjs
hfxcshfgvclxyrgwcLxrwwyrncPrce. rcygkhc scxhh c.gwcmk.xkrwck.dzygv
.jhfkcpy mrdlc.kckprcorxsc h rgkciprgcYci.mcksygvc sckyrc.gwcgrrwrw
rorxschfgerchlcehgergkx.kyhgclhxckp.kcwrdye.krck.mzncKprcxrergkcu.yglfd
ruymhwrc.uur.xrwckhcjrciryvpygvchgcpymc ygwckhcmh rcrqkrgkn”cPrcprdurw
Rorcygkhckprcjh.kc.gwcmk.xkrwckhcxhinc“Ycehgmhdrwcpy c.mcjrmkcYcehfdw
jsckrddygvcpy ckp.kcykcihfdwcuxhj.jdscp.orc .wrcshfckpygzc.ddckprc hxr
pyvpdschlcpy ncYcorgkfxrwckprcmfvvrmkyhgckp.kcvyxdmcihxmpyuckprcmkxhgv,
xhfvp,cw.mpygvcksurchlc .gnc.gw,c.lkrxcYcp.wcwhgrc scjrmkckhcehgoyger
py ckp.kcprci.mc.cmkxhgv,cxhfvp,cw.mpygvc .g,cYce. rc.i.sncJscghi,chl
ehfxmr,cprc .scp.orcp.wc.cxrd.umrcygkhcwrmu.yx;cmh,cylcshfcp.uurgckh
mrrc.cjhwscjhjjygvc.jhfkcygckprci.krxc.mcircxhic.dhgv,cykciyddcuxhj.jds
jrcLxrwwyr’mn”

“Grorxc ygwc.jhfkcLxrwwyrn”

“Ycwhg’kcylcshfcwhg’k,”cm.ywcUm ykpc.vxrr.jdsnc“Orxscirdd,ckprg,cylcir
mrrc.cjhws,circiyddcyvghxrcykn”cPrcxhirwchgc.clricmkxhzrmnc“Ehxxrekc r
ylcYc. cixhgv,”cprcm.yw,cxrmkygvchgcpymch.xmc.gwcdr.gygvclhxi.xw,c“jfk
shfc.uur.xckhcjrcjxhhwygvc.jhfkcmh rkpygvncYlcshfciyddcvyorc rc.cedfr,
Yciyddcrgwr.ohfxckhc.mmymkcshfckhcvx.uudrciykpc.gscdykkdrcuxhjdr cipyep
ymckxhfjdygvcshfncIp.kcymckprc .kkrx?”

Ror,cbfrmkyhgrwckpfmcwyxrekds,clhfgwcykcwyllyefdkckhchurgckprcmfjtrekn
Mprcprmyk.krwc.c h rgk,c.gwcdrkckprci.krxcxyuudrckpxhfvpcprxclygvrxmn

“Ycp.orchgdsctfmkclhfgwchfkcshfxcg. r,c xnc eKhww,”cmprcm.ywc.kcdrgvkpn

Um ykpcghwwrwn

“Ykcymc.di.smckpfm,”cprcm.ywnc“U.mmygvckpxhfvpckpymcdylr,circ rrkc.
lrddhi- hxk.d,cep.kc.ipydr,c.gwcu.xk;c.gwckprcd.mkckpygvcirckpygzchl
whygvcymckhc.mzcpy cygc.c .gdsc.gwcwyxrekci.scip.kcpymcd.jrdcymncKprxr
ymcmh rkpygvchwwdsclfxkyorc.gwcmp. rl.erwcygchgr’mc.kkykfwrckhi.xwm
urhudr’mcg. rmncYkcymc.mcylcircmpx.gzclxh cuxhjygvcmh rcpywrhfmcmrexrkn
Ircm.sckhchfxmrdormc‘Kpymcudr.m.gkcmkx.gvrxc .scjrc.cMghhzmchxc.
JfvvygmncJrkkrxcghkcygbfyxrn’cJfkcygc sce.mrcncncn”

“Ykci.mc.cvxr.kcmphezckhc rn”

“Ghickprxr,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“Yce.gghkclhddhicshfncYcihfdwg’kce.ddc eKhww
.cj.wcg. r,c.mcg. rmcvhncWhg’kcshfckpygzckprxrcymc.cmhxkchlcPyvpd.gw
mkxrgvkpc.jhfkcyk?cYkcmhfgwmckhc rcdyzrcmh rkpygvchfkchlc‘KprcD.wschl
kprcD.zr’chxc‘KprcD.schlckprcD.mkc ygmkxrdn’c‘Kprcmk.vc.kcrorcp.wcwxfgz
ykmclyddc.whhgckprcvdrgcjrsygkckprcpydd,c.gwcirdeh rwciykpc.clxyrgwds
ghwchdwcMehkd.gw’mcuxywr,cshfgvcD.yxwc eKhwwn’cShfcwhg’kckpygzcykcp.mc.
mhxkchlciydwcxh .gkyecxygv?”

“Ychfvpkckhckrddcshf,c xnc eKhww,”cm.ywcRor,c“kp.kcYci.mc.kcmephhdciykp
Esgkpy.n”

Um ykpci.mcghkc.cshfgvc .gciphchlkrgclhfgwcpy mrdlc.kc.cdhmm,cjfkckpym
xr .xzcv.orcpy c.cjriydwrxrwclrrdygvcmfepc.mceh rmcygcwxr. mncYkci.m
ud.ygckhcpy ckp.kckpymcwrdyvpklfdcvyxdckphfvpkcmprcp.wcm.ywcmh rkpygv
mrxyhfm,crorgcy uxrmmyor;cjfkclhxckprc h rgkcykcwywcghkcmrr ckhcpy ckh
 .zrcmrgmrncPrcmu.xxrwci.xydsclhxcky rn

“Ygwrrw?cIykpcEsgkpy.?cKp.kc fmkcp.orcjrrgcthddsn”

Kprcp.x drmmchjmrxo.kyhgc.uur.xrwckhcp.orckprcihxmkcrllrekcfuhgcpym
eh u.gyhgncKprclxhigce. rcj.ezckhcprxcl.ern

“Hp,cwhg’kcmur.zcygckp.kcldyuu.gk,cmgrrxygvci.s,”cmprcm.ywnc“Yk’mcmh
epr.un”

Um ykp,cp.oygvcghkpygvckhcm.s,cxr .ygrwcmydrgk,c.gwckprcjh.kcwxylkrw
hgncRor’mcl.erci.mcwrdye.krdscuygz,clhxcmprci.mclrrdygvcrqkx.hxwyg.xyds
r j.xx.mmrwncKprxrci.mcmh rkpygvcygckprcmhdr gcv.archlckprc .g
jrlhxrcprxcipyepc .wrcykcwyllyefdkclhxcprxckhcvhchgncJfk,ciykpckpr
mkhfk-pr.xkrwgrmmcipyepci.mchgrchlcprxcep.x.ekrxymkyem,cmprcmkfezckh
prxck.mzn

“.lkrxc.dd,”cmprcm.yw,c“phirorxcshfc .sclrrdc.jhfkcprxcghi,cshfc fmk
p.orcjrrgclhgwchlcuhhxcEsgkpy.c.kchgrcky r,chxcYcwhg’kcmrrcipscshf
mphfdwcp.orc .xxyrwcprxn”

Um ykp,clhxci.gkchlcehgorxm.kyhg,cp.wcjrvfgcxhiygvc.v.ygncKprcmk.xkcpr
v.orc.kckprmrcxr .xz.jdrcihxwmce.fmrwcpy ckhcmzy ckprcmfxl.erchlckpr
i.krxciykpckprcdrlkch.xcygcmfepc.c .ggrxc.mckhcmrgwc.cdyjrx.dcuygkcygkh
Ror’mcd.uncPrcmk.xkrwclhxi.xwciykpc.uhdhvyrmn

“Hp,cgrorxc ygwc.jhfkckp.k,”cm.ywcRorcy u.kyrgkdsnc“Ykcwhrmg’k
 .kkrxncncncnc xnc eKhww,”cmprcm.yw,c.gwckprxrci.mc.cghkrchlcvrgkdrgrmm
ygcprxcohyer,c“Ycwhciympcshfcihfdwckrddc rcip.kckprckxhfjdrci.mn”

Um ykpcmk.xrwc.kckprcldhhxchlckprcjh.kcygcmydrgerncPrci.mcixrmkdygv
iykpc.clrrdygvchlcygtfxsncKxfr,cprcp.wcghkcwfxygvckpryxcjxyrl
ehgorxm.kyhgc.kckprcMrgyhxcEhgmrxo.kyorcEdfjcmureylye.ddscygbfyxrwchl
 xnc eKhwwciprkprxcprci.mc.cj.eprdhx,cjfkcmh rphicprclrdkckp.kckprc .g
mphfdwcp.orcwxhuurwcmh rcpygkc.mckhcpymc .xxyrwcmk.krncKxfr,c.v.yg,
 xnc eKhwwcp.wcghkc.mzrwcpy ckhcy urxmhg.krcpy c.kcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdrn
.gwcsrk,cfgwrgy.jds,cprclrdkckp.kcprcp.wc.cvxyro.gerncUm ykp’mci.m
.gchxwrxdsc ygwncPrcp.wcuxhuhmrwckhcehgkygfrckprcudr.m.gkcxrd.kyhgm
ipyepcp.wcjrvfgcjrkirrgcRorc.gwcpy mrdl,cmrrygvckhcykckp.kcrorxscw.s
kprscjre. rc.cdykkdrcudr.m.gkrx,cfgkydcrorgkf.dds,cygcwfrcmr.mhg,ckprs
mphfdwcxr.epckprcuhygkciprxrcykcihfdwcjreh rcuhmmyjdrckhcd.scpr.xkc.gw
p.gwc.kcprxclrrkncLhxckprxrci.mcghcwhfjkcygcpymc ygwckp.kcygc.cihxdw
ehgvrmkrwckhchorxldhiygvciykpcvyxdmcRorcP.ddyw.scmkhhwcrgkyxrdsc.dhgrn
.gwcghickpymcyglrxg.dcEsgkpy.cp.wcxymrgclxh cghiprxrckhcmk.gwcjrkirrg
kpr ncRorgc.cshfgvc .gc.mcdyjrx.ddscrgwhirwciykpce.d c.mmfx.gerc.mcpr
i.mc yvpkclygwcykc.izi.xwckhcehgwfekcpymcihhygvciykpcmfepc.cp.gwye.uc.m
.ciylrcygckprcj.ezvxhfgwn

Rorc ymygkrxuxrkrwcpymcmydrgern

“Ycmfuuhmrcshfc.xrckpygzygvckp.kcykcymcghcjfmygrmmchlc ygr?”

Um ykpce. rchfkchlcpymckphfvpkmciykpc.cmk.xkn

“Gh,cghncGhkc.kc.ddn”

“Shfcmrr,cY’ cwrohkrwckhcEsgkpy.--.gwcYcdyzrcshfn”

Mprcm ydrwclhxckprclyxmkcky rncPrxcr j.xx.mm rgkci.mcu.mmygvn

“Kp.kcymckprciphdrcuhygk,”cmprcm.ywnc“Ycwhcdyzrcshfnc.gwcY’ cbfykrcmfxr
kp.kcylcshfcirxrcxr.ddsckprcmhxkchlc .gcYckphfvpkcshfciprgcYclyxmk
pr.xwc.jhfkc.ddckpym,cYcmphfdwg’kncKprclxyrgwciphckhdwc rc.jhfkcshf
.gwcEsgkpy.c .wrcykcmrr c.mcylckprciphdrcl.fdkcp.wcjrrgcshfxmncYcvhk
kprcy uxrmmyhgckp.kcshfcp.wcjrrgcorxscfgzygwckhcEsgkpy.ncYckphfvpk
shfc fmkcjrc.cjxfkrnc.gwciprgcDhxwcR mihxkpckhdwc rciphcshfcirxr,c s
lyxmkcy ufdmrci.mckhcp.krcshfncYckpygzcylcshfcp.wceh rc.dhgvctfmkckprg
Ycmphfdwcp.orcjrrgcx.kprxcphxxywckhcshfncJfkcshfcirxrcd.kr,c.gwckp.k
v.orc rcky rckhckpygzcykchorxnc.gwckprgcYcxr r jrxrwcphicgyercshfcp.w
jrrgckhc rc.gwcYclrdkcmh rphickp.k--kp.kcshfc fmkcxr.ddscjrcbfykr
gyer,c.gwcykcheefxxrwckhc rckp.kckprxrc yvpkcjrcmh rcrqud.g.kyhgnc.gw
Yckphfvpkckp.k--urxp.um--ylcshfcihfdwcdrkc rcygkrxlrxrcygcshfxcuxyo.kr
.ll.yxm--.gwcylckpygvmcp.wg’kcvhgrckhhcl.x--Yc yvpkcwhcmh rkpygvckh
prdu--kxsckhcjxygvcshfckhvrkprx,cshfczghin”

Mprcjxhzrchll,c.cdykkdrcehglfmrw,clhxcghickp.kckprcihxwmcirxrchfkcmpr
i.mcehgmeyhfmchlc.cxrkfxgchlcprxclhx rxcmpsgrmmncRorgckphfvpcmprci.m
.gchdwclxyrgwchlcEsgkpy.’m,ckprxrcwywcmrr cmh rkpygvcygmfllrx.jds
hllyeyhfmcygckpymc rwwdygvnc.gwciprgcmprcm.ickprcdhhzchlcu.ygchgcprx
eh u.gyhg’mcl.er,cmprcxrvxrkkrwckp.kcmprcp.wcmuhzrgncG.kfx.dds,cmpr
kphfvpk,cprci.mchllrgwrwn

Ygcmfuuhmygvckp.kcUm ykpci.mchllrgwrwcmprci.mc ymk.zrgncYgkrxg.ddscpr
i.mcvdhiygvciykpc.cxrgrirwc.w yx.kyhgclhxc.ddckphmrcjr.fkylfdcbf.dykyrm
ygcprxcipyepcprcp.wcwrkrekrw,cjrlhxrckprscp.wcrorxc rk,c.kcmrorx.d
s.xwm’cx.gvrc.exhmmckprcmkxrrkclxh ckprciygwhichlckprcWxhgrmcEdfj
m hzygv-xhh ncPymcdhhzchlcu.ygci.mcwfrckhckprcl.ekckp.k,cp.oygvcghi
p.wcky rckhcvx.uudrciykpckprcuxhjdr ,cprcp.wcwreywrwckhcwymuhmrchl
kpymcEsgkpy.chgerc.gwclhxc.ddncPrcuxhuhmrwckhcrdy yg.krcprxclhxcrorx
lxh cpymcdylrnc.gwckprcrdy yg.kyhgchlcrorgcmfepc.ceh u.x.kyorcmkx.gvrx
mrr rwckhcpy ckhce.ddclhxc.cu.ygrwcdhhzncMhcprc.mmf rwchgrn

“Kp.k,”cprcm.ywcvx.ords,c“ihfdw,cYclr.x,cjrcy uhmmyjdrncYkcymcdyzrcshf
khcmfvvrmkcyk,c.gwcYce.gghkckrddcshfcphic fepcYc.uuxrey.krckprczygwgrmm
ipyepcp.mc .wrcshfcygkrxrmkcshfxmrdlcygc sckxhfjdrm,cjfkcykcymckhhcd.kr
lhxc.gscxrehgeydy.kyhgncEsgkpy.c.gwcYc.xrcwyohxerwn”

Lhxc.c h rgkckprckr uk.kyhgcp.wceh rckhcpy ckhczyddckprcih .gchllciykp
mh rci.mkygvcmyezgrmm,cjfkckpymcprcxrmymkrwc.mckrgwygvckhi.xwmcuhmmyjdr
lfkfxrceh udye.kyhgmncPrci.mcxrmhdorw,cphirorx,ckp.kckprxrcmphfdwcjrcgh
bfrmkyhgchlcjxygvygvckpr ckhvrkprxc.v.ygn

Prci.mcwymkfxjrwckhclygwcRorcmk.xygvc.kcpy cygc. .ar rgkn

“Wyohxerw?cJfkcphice.gcshfcjrcwyohxerw?cYk’mchgdsc.clricw.smcmygercshf
.gwcmprcirxrcygcDhgwhgckhvrkprxn”

Um ykpcer.mrwckhcihgwrxckp.kc xnc eKhwwcp.wcp.wckxhfjdrciykpcpymciylrn
Kprcih .gci.mc.curxlrekcurmkn

“Ycfmrwckprckrx cygc.cmuyxykf.dcx.kprxckp.gc.cdrv.dcmrgmr,”cprcxrudyrwn
“Kxfr,ckprxrcp.mcjrrgcghc.ekf.dcwrexrr,cjfkcirc.xrcmru.x.krwcjrshgw
phurchlcxrfgyhgn”cPrcm.ickprcwymkxrmmcygcRor’mcrsrmc.gwcpfxxyrwchgn
“Kprxrc.xrckpygvm,”cprcm.yw,c“ipyepcykcymcy uhmmyjdrclhxc.c .gckh
horxdhhz,cphirorxcjxh.w- ygwrwcprc .scjrncDhor,c ymmcP.ddyw.s,cymc.
wrdye.krcud.gkncYkcgrrwmckrgwygv,cgfxmygv,c.mmywfhfmclhmkrxygvncKpym
e.gghkcjrcwhgrcjsckpxhiygvckprcjxr.zl.mkcj.ehgc.kc.cpfmj.gw’mcpr.wn”

“Ip.k!”cRor’mc.mkhgymp rgkci.mcmfepckp.kckprcihxwce. rchfkcygc.
mk.xkdrwcmbfr.zn

“_Yg_ckprcwymp,”cm.ywcUm ykpcm.wdsn

Ror’mcjdfrcrsrmchurgrwciywrn

“_Esgkpy._cwywckp.k!”

“Hgc hxrckp.gchgrchee.myhgncPrxckr urxcygckprc hxgygvmci.mckrxxyjdrncY
p.orczghigcprxcdylkckprce.kchorxckihcep.yxmc.gwc.cmrkkrrciykpc.cmygvdr
zyeznc.gwc.ddcjre.fmrckprxrcirxrcghc fmpxhh mn”

“Jfk--jfkcYce.g’kcjrdyrorcyk!”

“Eh rchorxckhcE.g.w.,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“.gwcYciyddcmphicshfckprce.kn”

“Esgkpy.cwywckp.k!--Esgkpy.--ips,cmprci.mc.di.smckprcvrgkdrmkcdykkdr
exr.kfxrn”

“.kcmephhd,cshfc r.g?”

“Srmn”

“Kp.k,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“ihfdw,cYcmfuuhmr,cjrcjrlhxrcmprcp.wck.zrgckh
wxygzn”

“K.zrgckhcwxygz!”

Um ykpci.mclrrdygvcp.uuyrxnc.cu.mmygvckphfvpkcwywceh rckhcpy ckp.kc.dd
kpymci.mcurxp.umc.ckxyldrcxhfvpchgckprc.jmrgkcEsgkpy.,cjfkcprc .mkrxrw
kprcfg .gdscir.zgrmmncYkci.mcgrermm.xsckp.kcEsgkpy.cmphfdwcmfllrxcyg
kprcvhhwce.fmrnc.dxr.wscprcp.wcjrvfgckhcwrkrekcygcRor’mcrsrmckprcl.ygk
w.igygvmchlc.gc.gvrdyecuyks,c.gwcuykscymcxrehvgymrwcjsc.ddckprcjrmk
.fkphxykyrmc.mchgrchlckprc hmkco.df.jdrcr hkyhgmcipyepcshfxcihhrxce.g
.i.zrgn

“Wxygz!”cRorcxrur.krw,ciykpc.cdykkdrcmpfwwrxn

“IrcdyorwcygchgrchlckprcwxscuxhoygermchlcE.g.w.,c.gw,c.mcmhchlkrg
p.uurgm,ckp.kcmk.xkrwckprckxhfjdrncLxh ckprc h rgkciprgcmprcygmk.ddrw
.cuxyo.krcmkyddcprxcwhigl.ddci.mcmiylkncYcp.orcmrrgcprx,cfgwrxckpr
ygldfrgerchlcph r-jxri,cx.vrckpxhfvpckprcphfmrcdyzrc.cwro.mk.kygv
esedhgrcncncncYcp.krcmur.zygvcdyzrckpymchlchgrciphci.mcshfxclxyrgw,”
m.ywcUm ykp,cygc.cdhi,coyjx.kygvcohyernc“Ycihfdwcghkckrddckprmrckpygvm
khc.gshgrcjfkcshfncKprcihxdw,chlcehfxmr,cmfuuhmrmckp.kckprcrgkyxrcjd. r
lhxckprcehdd.umrchlchfxcph rci.mc ygrncYckhhzce.xrckp.kcykcmphfdwcjr
mhncKprchuygyhgchlckprcihxdwc .kkrxmcdykkdrckhc rncJfkciykpcshfcykcym
wyllrxrgkncYcmphfdwcghkcdyzrcshfckhckpygzcj.wdschlc r,c ymmcP.ddyw.sn
Ycwhcghkc .zrclxyrgwmcr.myds--Yc. c.cdhgrdsc .g--jfkcmh rphicykcp.m
mrr rwckhc rcmygercirc rkckp.kcshfc.gwcYc yvpkcjrclxyrgwmn”

Rorcmkxrkeprwcprxcp.gwchfkcy ufdmyordsn

“Ips,chlcehfxmr!”

Um ykpckhhzcprxcp.gwc.gwcprdwcykcl.xcdhgvrxckp.gci.mcmkxyekdscmur.zygv
grermm.xsn

“Kp.gzcshf,”cprcm.ywnc“Kp.gzcshfn”

Prckfxgrwckprcghmrchlckprcjh.kckhckprcmphxr,c.gwcxhirwcmdhidscj.ezn

“Ycp.orcmfllrxrw,”cm.ywcUm ykpcvx.ords,c.mcprcprdurwcprxc.mphxrnc“Jfk,
ylcshfciyddcjrc sclxyrgw,cYckpygzckp.kcYc .sclhxvrkn”

Kprsci.dzrwcygcmydrgercfuckprciygwygvcu.kpckhckprce.mkdrn


§c6

KhcUm ykpclyorc ygfkrmcd.krx,c.mcprcm.kcygcpymcxhh cm hzygvc.ceyv.xrkkr
.gwcdhhzygvcwxr. ydschfkc.kckprcwymk.gkcpyddm,ckprxrcrgkrxrwckprcPhgn
LxrwrxyezcKpxrruihhw,ciph,cp.oygvcedhmrwckprcwhhxcjrpygwcpy ,ckhkkrxrw
khckprcjrwc.gwcfkkrxrwc.cwrruc.gwcwymehxw.gkcvxh.gncUm ykp,cpymc ygw
kpfmcxfwrdscixrgeprwclxh cudr.m.gkc rwyk.kyhgm,ckfxgrwc.gwcxrv.xwrwckpr
vdhh scshfkpciykpcwyml.ohfxn

“.kc.gschkprxcky r,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,”cprcm.ywcuhdykrdscjfkciykp
lyx grmm,c“erxk.ygdsncJfkcghkcghincYc. cghkcygckprcorygn”

“Ip.k?”cm.ywckprcPhgncLxrwwyrco.e.gkdsn

“Ycm.sckp.kc.kc.gschkprxcky rcYcmp.ddcjrcwrdyvpkrwckhcdymkrgckhcshfx
l.x s.xwcy yk.kyhgm,cjfkcghkcghinc.kckprc h rgkcYc. cwrrucygckphfvpkm
hlc schig,c.gwcYc .scm.sclx.gzdsckp.kcYcxrv.xwcshfc.mc hxrchxcdrmmchl
.gcrqexrmergerncYci.gkcmhdykfwr,cmhdykfwrncYc. cygc.cjr.fkylfdcxrorxyr,
.gwcshfxcuxrmrgerct.xmcfuhgc rcmh rip.kcuxhlhfgwdsn”

KprcPhgncLxrwwyrcxfygrwckprcms  rkxschlcpymcp.yxcjscu.mmygvcpymclygvrxm
lrorxympdsckpxhfvpcykn

“Whg’kc_k.dz_cmhc fep!cYcgrorxc rkc.clrddhicdyzrcshfclhxck.dzygvn”
P.oygvcxf udrwcpymcp.yxckhckprcdrlk,cprcirgkckpxhfvpcykc.v.ygc.gw
xf udrwcykckhckprcxyvpknc“Ycm.s,cwhcshfczghicip.k?cShf’orcthddscirdd
vhkckhcedr.xchfkchlcprxrcbfyez!”cPrcvhkcfuclxh ckprcjrw,c.gwc.uuxh.eprw
kprciygwhincP.oygvcwhgrcipyep,cprcjrgkckhi.xwmcUm ykpc.gwcipymurxrwcyg
pymcr.xnc“Kprcv. r’mcfu!”

Um ykpciykpwxricpymcr.xciykpc.ckhfepchlcp.fkrfx,cjfkcprcdhhzrwc.k
pymceh u.gyhgciykpc.cdykkdrc hxrcygkrxrmkncPrcp.wclr.xrw,ciprgcpr
m.icLxrwwyrcmk.vvrxcygciykpcmfepc rdhwx. .kyecwrmu.yxc.gwcr ykcmh
phddhic.cvxh.g,ckp.kckprckhuyechgcipyepcprciymprwckhcehgorxmrci.mckpr
.dxr.wscrqp.fmkrwchgrchlcpymcjxhzrgcpr.xkncYkcghicjrv.gckhc.uur.xckp.k
iryvpkyrxc .kkrxmcirxrchgcpymc ygwn

“Ycl.ydckhcfgwrxmk.gwcshf,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,”cprcm.ywnc“Kprcd.mkcky r
Ycp.wckprcuxyoydrvrchlcehgorxmygvciykpcshf,cshfcyglhx rwc rckp.kcMfm.g,
hxcip.krorxcprxcg. rcym,c rxrdscvyvvdrwc.gwckhdwcshfcghkckhcjrcmydds
iprgcshfcr jx.erwcprxncYgchkprxcihxwm,cmprcymc_ghk_c.cwrkrekyorncIp.k
p.mcp.uurgrwcmygerckprgckhcvrkcshfc.ddcihxzrwcfu?”

“J.qkrx!”

“Ip.kcp.mcJ.qkrxcjrrgcwhygv?”

“Hgdscvyoygvckprciphdrcj.ddscmphic.i.sckhc r,ckp.k’mc.dd,”cm.yw
LxrwwyrclrorxympdsncPrcedfkeprwcUm ykp’mc.x coyhdrgkds,ce.fmygvckp.k
rqbfymykrckhcfkkrxc.cmdyvpkc h.gc.gwcm hhkpchfkckprcixygzdrmckpfm
exr.krwcygcpymcmdrrornc“Dymkrg!cY’orctfmkcjrrgck.dzygvckhckprcjdyvpkrxn
Yci.mcu.mmygvckprcdyjx.xsctfmkcghi,ciprgcprcuhuurwchfkchlckprcwhhxc.gw
p.fdrwc rcygnc.gw,cw.mpcyk,cprcp.wg’kcjrrgck.dzygvckihcmrehgwmcjrlhxr
Ycxr.dymrwckp.kcprcp.mcmrrgckpxhfvpckprciphdrcw. ’ckpygvcux.ekye.dds
lxh ckprc h rgkcshfcvhkcprxrncKphfvpcprcwhrmg’kcmrr ckhczghickp.kcY’or
.gskpygvckhcwhciykpcyk,ckp.gzcvhhwgrmmn”

“Ycmphfdwcy .vygrcghk,cylcprc .zrmcshfcpymcehglyw.gkncIpscwywcprcwh
kp.k,cjsckprci.s?cIp.kc .wrcpy cmrdrekcshfc.mckprcxreyuyrgkchlcpym
mrexrkm?”

“.mcl.xc.mcYce.gc .zrchfk,cpymcywr.ci.mckhclhx c.cv.gv,cylcshfczghi
ip.kcYc r.gncPrcm.ywc.cdhkchlcmkfllc.jhfkcpy c.gwc rcjrygvckprchgds
kihc.jdr-jhwyrwcshfgvc rgcygckprcud.er,c.gwcirchfvpkckhcjrcuxru.xrwckh
k.ezdrcshfcylcshfcmk.xkrwc.gskpygvn”

“Ycmrrnc.gwcghickrddc rcphichfxcwrdyvpklfdclxyrgwcrorxcp.uurgrw
khcjrvygcmfmurekygvckp.kcYci.mcghkc.ddcYcmrr rwckhcjrncYcp.wcjrrg
ld.kkrxygvc smrdlckp.kcYcp.wcufkckprcdykkdrcwrerukyhgchorxciykp
eh udrkrcmfeermmn”

“Irdd,cygckprclyxmkcud.er,cw.mpcyk,ckp.kcw. ’clrddhic eKhww--kprcxr.d
hgr,cshfczghi--mrgkc.ckrdrvx. cm.sygvckp.kcprci.mg’kceh ygvncMhcyk
mrr rwcxf  sckhcJ.qkrxcj.gvclxh ckprcmk.xkciprgcshfcjdricygc.ddc rxxs
.gwcjxyvpkn”

“.p!cKp.kci.mcip.kckprsc.ddc r.gkcjscm.sygvckprscirxrcvd.wcYcp.wceh r
‘.lkrxc.ddn’c.cupx.mrcipyepc.kckprc h rgk,cYcehglrmm,cx.kprxc smkylyrw
 rn”

“.gwckprgcshfcirgkc.gwcixhkrcygckprcUr.orsclr .dr’mc.fkhvx.up-jhhzn”

“Ygcip.kci.sci.mckp.kc.cl.dmrc hor?”

“Ips,ckp.kci.mckprcjyvvrmkcjdhh rxchgcxrehxw,c.mcykcp.mckfxgrwchfk,”
m.ywcLxrwwyrcorpr rgkdsnc“J.qkrxc.uu.xrgkdsczrrumcrorxscdrkkrxckp.k
eh rmckhckprcud.erchgc.clydr,c.gwcpr’wcmzrirxrwc eKhww’mchxyvyg.d
drkkrxciykpckprcxrmkncYc r.g,ckprchgrcprcixhkrc.eerukygvckprcygoyk.kyhg
khceh rcprxrnc.gwcJ.qkrxceh u.xrwcpymcp.gwixykygvciykpcip.kcshfcixhkr
ygckprcUr.ors’mc.djf ,c.gw,chlcehfxmr,ckprscirxrg’kc.cw. ’cjykc.dyzrn
.gwckp.kcufkckprcdywchgcykn”

Um ykpcdykc.ghkprxceyv.xrkkrc.gwcwxric.kcykckphfvpklfddsncPrcxr.dymrw
kp.kcprcp.wc .wrc.ck.ekye.dcrxxhxcygcfgwrxrmky .kygvckprc.gk.vhgym chl
kprcRllyeyrgkcHgrn

“Whrmcprcmrr ckhcp.orc.gscywr.cipscYcp.orceh rckhckprce.mkdr?”cprc.mzrwn

“.gscywr.?cIps,cw.mpcyk,ckprcorxsclyxmkckpygvcprcm.ywckhc rci.mckp.k
shfc fmkcp.orceh rckhcmgr.zc.fgkcEhggyr’mcgrezd.ern”

“Ygckp.kce.mr,cipscp.mcprc .wrcghc horckyddckh-w.s?cYcmphfdwcp.or
mfuuhmrwckp.kcprcihfdwcdhgvcmygercp.orcwrghfgerwc rcjrlhxrc.mcd.xvrc.g
.fwyrgerc.mcprcehfdwc.mmr jdrncIpsckpymcxrkyergerchgckprcu.xkchlcvrgy.d
hdwcJ.qkrx?”

.cexy mhgcldfmpchlcepyo.dxhfmcygwyvg.kyhgcmuxr.wcykmrdlchorxcLxrwwyr’m
l.ern

“Prckhdwc rckp.k,ckhhn”

“Kprxrcmrr mckhcp.orcjrrgcghcxrmrxormcjrkirrgcEh x.wrcJ.qkrxc.gw
shfxmrdlnc.gwcorxscpr.dkps,ckhh,ckpymcmuyxykchlcehglywrgerncIp.kci.m
pymcxr.mhgclhxc.jmk.ygygvclxh cdhhmygvckprcjh j?”

“Prcm.ywcprci.mcuxrkkscmfxrcshfcihfdwg’kckxsckhcwhc.gskpygvchgcshfx
higncPrckphfvpkcshfcihfdwci.ykckyddcshfxc.eeh udyerc.xxyorwnc.gw,cw. g
py ,”cexyrwcLxrwwyrcpr.krwds,c“whcshfczghiciphcpr’mcvhkckprcyglrxg.d
v.ddckhckpygzcymcshfxc.eeh udyer?c ymmcP.ddyw.s!cW.mpcpy !”

Um ykpcm hzrwcygckphfvpklfdcmydrgern

“Irdd,chlcehfxmr,cghickp.kckpymcp.mcp.uurgrw,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,c“Ycmfuuhmr
yk’mcghcvhhwckpygzygvchlcvhygvchgciykpckprckpygvncShf’wcjrkkrxcuhuchll,
ip.k?cYlcYcirxrcshf,cY’wcdrvcykckh-w.sc.gwcp.orcshfxcdfvv.vrcmrgkchg
.lkrxcshfn”

Um ykpckpxric.i.scpymceyv.xrkkrc.gwcmkxrkeprwcpy mrdlncWfxygvckprcd.mk
lric h rgkmcprcp.wcjrrgckpygzygvciykpcmh rckrgmrgrmmn

“Eh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,”cprcm.ywcxruxhoygvds,c“shfcmfvvrmkc.cehi.xwdsc.gw
ir.z- ygwrwc.ekyhgncYc.w ykckp.kckprchfkdhhzcihfdwcjrcwymkygekdscxhmyrx
ylcghcmfepcurxmhgc.mcJ.qkrxcirxrchgckprcuxr ymrm,cjfkcgrorxkprdrmmckpr
kpygvc fmkcjrcmrrgckpxhfvpckhc.clygympnc.kcdr.mkcircp.orckpymc.wo.gk.vr
horxchfxcmurek.edrwclxyrgw,ckp.kcirczghicprcmfmurekmc rc.gwcprcwhrmg’k
zghicirczghincYckpygzckp.kciykpc.cdykkdrcxrmhfxerc.gwcygvrgfykscirc .s
srkciygckpxhfvpn”cPrckfxgrwckhckprciygwhic.gwcdhhzrwchfknc“M.w,”cpr
myvprw,c“kp.kckprmrcywsddyecmfxxhfgwygvmcmphfdwcp.orcjreh rchuuxrmmrw
iykpc.cedhfwchlcmygymkrxc rg.erncHgrckpygzmchgrcmrrmc.cl.fgcuhuuygv
.jhfkcygckprcfgwrxvxhikp,c.gwchgcdhhzygvc hxrcedhmrdscurxeryormckp.k
ykcymcygcxr.dyksc.cwrkrekyorciykpc.cghkrjhhzncIp.kchgrcl.geyrwci.mckpr
uyuygvchlcU.gckfxgmchfkckhcjrc.cuhdyer-ipymkdr,cmf  hgygvc.mmymk.gern
Mkydd,circ fmkcjr.xckprmrckpygvmciykphfkciygeygvncKprsc.xrchfxcexhmmn
Ip.kcshfcp.orckhdwc rciyddcxrgwrxc r,cylcuhmmyjdr,ci.xyrxc.gwc hxr
mg.zr-dyzrckp.gcrorx,cjfkc scufxuhmrcxr .ygmclyx ncKprcexscvhrmcxhfgw
kprce.mkdrcj.kkdr rgkmc‘Um ykpcygkrgwmckhczrruckprchdwcld.vcldsygv!’
Mhcep.xvrchllc.gwcmhhkprcshfxcbfyorxygvcv.gvdyhgmciykpc.cehfudrchl
.muyxygm,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,c.gwcdr.orc rckhc sckphfvpkmnc.ddciydd
whfjkdrmmceh rcxyvpkcygckprclfkfxrn”




EP.UKRXcYQ

UM YKPcRGV.VRMc.cO.DRK


§c1

Lxh chfkchlckprcmergkrwcmp.wrchlckprcjyvcerw.xchgckprcd.igcygclxhgkchl
kprce.mkdrcUm ykpcdhhzrwc.kckprcldhirx-jrwm,ct.fgksc.gwcvdr. ygvcygckpr
.lkrxghhgcmfg;ckprgcprcdhhzrwcj.ezc.kcRor,cygexrwfdykscygcrorxsclr.kfxrn

“Yc fmkcp.orc ymfgwrxmkhhwcshfncMfxrds,”cprcm.ywcygc.cohyercoyjx.gk
iykpcxruxh.ep,c“shfcwhcghkcmrxyhfmdscygkrgwckhc_ihxz_cygcir.kprxcdyzr
kpym?”

“Yc fmkncY’orcvhkc.cehgmeyrgerncKprsc.xrg’kcu.sygvc rc.cp.gwmh r
m.d.xs--.cl.yxdscp.gwmh rcm.d.xs--khcmykc.jhfkcygcwrez-ep.yxmn”

“Jfkcshfchgdsce. rcsrmkrxw.sn”

“Irdd,cYchfvpkckhcp.orcihxzrwcsrmkrxw.sn”

“Ykcmrr mckhc r,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“kprcgr.xrmkckpygvckhcmd.orxsckp.kcY
p.orcrorxcmkxfezncYcp.wcphurw,cmrrygvckp.kcrorxsjhwscp.wcvhgrchllc.gw
drlkcfmc.dhgr,ckp.kcircirxrcvhygvckhcmurgwc.cp.uusc.gwcygmkxfekyor
.lkrxghhgckhvrkprxcfgwrxckprcmp.wrchlckpymcghjdrckxrr,ck.dzygvchlckpym
.gwckp.kncYmcykcghkckhcjr?”

“Gh,cykcymcghkncYk’mcdfezscshf’xrcghkckprchgrciph’mcmfuuhmrwckhcjr
e.k.dhvfygvckpymcdyjx.xsncYkcihfdwcgrorxcvrkclygymprwn”

“.gwcips,c.mcshfxcr udhsrxcihfdwcm.s,cmphfdwcyk?cPrcp.mcrquxrmmrw
kprchuygyhgcmrorx.dcky rmcygc scpr.xygvckp.kckprcdyjx.xscp.mcthvvrw
.dhgvcbfykrceh lhxk.jdsclhxc.cvxr.kcgf jrxchlcsr.xmciykphfkcjrygv
e.k.dhvfrwncIpscmphfdwg’kcykcvhchgcdyzrckp.kcygwrlygykrds?”

“Yk’mcghcvhhwckxsygvckhckr ukc rncKprxr’mcghkpygvcYcmphfdwcdyzrcjrkkrx
kp.gckhcdh.lcprxrclhxcphfxmc.gwcphfxm,cjfkcip.kcihfdwc xncJ.qkrxcm.s
iprgcprcvhkcj.ezc.gwclhfgwchfk?”

“Ykcymcjreh ygvcygexr.mygvdscedr.xckhc rcr.epcw.sckp.kcYcmk.scygckpym
ud.er,”cm.ywcUm ykpc hhwyds,c“kp.kcEh x.wrcJ.qkrxcymcdykkdrcmphxkchlc.
jdymkrxchgckprceh  fgyksncKrddc r,cphicwhcshfcvrkchgciykpcpy ?”

“Ycwhg’kcdyzrcpy c fepn”

“GhxcwhcYncYkcymchgckprmrceh  fgykyrmchlck.mkrckp.kcdylr-dhgv
.kk.ep rgkmc.xrcjfydkncMykcwhigc.gwcdrkcfmcrqep.gvrcehglywrgermchgckpr
mfjtrekchlcJ.qkrxn”

Rorcd.fvprwn

“Ycihg’kncShf’xrcmy udsckxsygvckhcdfxrc rcygkhcmk.sygvchfkcprxrc.gw
grvdrekygvc scwfksncYcxr.ddsc fmkcjrchllcghincShfcp.orcghcywr.cip.kc.
dhkchlcihxzckprxrcymckhcjrcwhgrn”

“Shfc.xrcrgkyxrdscmuhydygvc sc.lkrxghhgn”

“Gh,cY’ cghkncShf’orcvhkc.cjhhzncIp.kcymcyk?”

Um ykpcuyezrwcfuckprcjxyvpkds-t.ezrkrwcohdf rc.gwcvd.gerwc.kcykn

“_Kprc .gcIykpcKprc ymmygvcKhrn_cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhwcdrgkcykckhc rncPr
p.mc.co.mkcmkhxrchlckpymcksurchlcg.xx.kyorncYcrqurekcprciyddcjrci.gkygv
shfckhce.k.dhvfrcpymcdyjx.xscgrqkn”

“Irdd,cykcdhhzmcygkrxrmkygvn”

“.p,cjfkcip.kcwhrmcykc_kr.ep_?cPhicdhgvcwhcshfcuxhuhmrckhcmpfkcshfxmrdl
fucygckp.kcroyd-m rddygvcdyjx.xs?”

“.gcphfxchxcmhn”

“KprgcYcmp.ddcxrdschgcshfxcmheyrksc.kckprcrgwchlckp.kcurxyhwncIrc yvpk
vhclhxc.ghkprxcm.fgkrxchgckprcd.zrn”

“.ddcxyvpkncY’ddceh rc.gwclygwcshfciprgcY’orclygymprwn”

Um ykpci.keprwcprxcwym.uur.xcygkhckprcphfmr,ckprgcmr.krwcpy mrdlchger
 hxrcygckprcdhgvcep.yxcfgwrxckprcerw.xnc.cmrgmrchlcdhgrdygrmmchuuxrmmrw
py ncPrcv.orchgrcdhhzc.kc_Kprc .gcIykpcKprc ymmygvcKhr_,c.gw,cp.oygv
xrtrekrwckprcrgkrxk.yg rgkcykchllrxrw,cv.orcpy mrdlcfuckhc rwyk.kyhgn

Jd.gwygvmcE.mkdrcwharwcygckprc ywmf  rxcpr.kcdyzrc.cU.d.erchlcMdrrun
Kprxrcp.wcjrrgc.gcrqhwfmchlcykmcyg .krmcmphxkdsc.lkrxcdfgep,ciprgcDhxw
R mihxkp,cD.wscEhgmk.ger,c xncZrrjdr,c ymmcUr.ors,c.gwckprcRllyeyrgk
J.qkrxcp.wcdrlkclhxckprcgryvpjhfxygvckhigchlcJxywvrlhxwcygckprcjyv
e.x,ciykpckprcPhgncLxrwwyrcufllygvcygcykmci.zrcygc.cg.kksckih-mr.krxn
Um ykp,ciphcp.wcjrrgcygoykrwckhc.eeh u.gsckpr ,cp.wcwredygrwchgckpr
udr.ckp.kcprciymprwckhcixykrc.cuhr ncPrclrdkcjfkc.ckruywcygkrxrmk
ygckprc.lkrxghhg’mcuxhvx.  r,cipyepci.mckhcehgmymkchlckprcfgorydygv
jscpymcdhxwmpyuchlckprcxrergkdsceh udrkrwc r hxy.dckhckprcd.kr
P.xkdrscXrwwymp,cRmbn,cTnUn,clhxcmhc .gscsr.xmc r jrxchlcU.xdy. rgk
lhxckprcJxywvrlhxwc.gwcMpyldrscWyoymyhgchlcMpxhumpyxrncGhkcrorgckpr
uxhmurekchlcpr.xygvcDhxwcR mihxkp--ed.w,cghkciykphfkco.ygcuxhkrmk
.gwcir.zcvxf jdygv,cygc.cmydzcp.k,c hxgygvceh.k,c.gwcmuhgvr-j.v
kxhfmrxm--wrdyorxc.cmurrep,cp.wcjrrgcmfllyeyrgkckhcdfxrcpy clxh ckpr
e.mkdrcvxhfgwmn

Jfkc.kckprc h rgkciprgcprcp.wcfkkrxrwcpymcxrlfm.d,ckprxrjscygefxxygv
kprcydd-ehger.drwcrgoscjhkpchlcDhxwcR mihxkpc.gwcpymcmhgcLxrwwyr,ckpr
d.kkrxc.dmhc.gcfgiyddygvcerdrjx.gk,cprcp.wcmfuuhmrwckp.kcpymcmhdykfwr
ihfdwcjrcmp.xrwcjscRorncKpymcwrudhx.jdrcehgmeyrgkyhfmgrmmchlcprxm,ckpym
 hxjywcex.oygvclhxcihxz,cp.wcdrlkcpy c.kc.cdhhmrcrgwncKprcky rc.gwckpr
ud.ercirxrcjhkpc.jhorcexykyeym ,cjfk,c.mcmhchlkrgcp.uurgmcygckpymcdylr
hlchfxm,cprcp.wcjrrgcdrkcwhigcjsckprcvyxdn

Jfk,ckphfvpcprcep.lrwclhxc.ipydr,cykci.mcghkcdhgvcjrlhxrckprcwxr. s
ur.erchlckprc.lkrxghhgcjrv.gckhcrqrxeymrc.cmhhkpygvcrllrekcfuhgcpy n
Iykpckprcrqerukyhgchlckprcjrrmckp.kcihxzrwciykpckpryxcfmf.dc ymvfywrw
rgrxvsc. hgvckprcldhirxmc.gwc.gchee.myhg.dcjfkkrxldscipyepcldykkrwcu.mk
ygckprcmfgmpygr,c.ddcg.kfxrcmrr rwckhcjrck.zygvc.cmyrmk.ncMh riprxr
hfkchlcmyvpkc.cd.ig- hirxcp.wcjrvfgckhcr up.mymrckprcmkyddgrmmciykp
ykmc fmye.dcipyxnc.ckrdrvx.up-jhschgc.cxrwcjyesedrcu.mmrwcfuckprcwxyor
khckprclxhgkcwhhx,c.gwcmrr rwckhcp.orcmh rcwyllyefdkscygcrmk.jdympygv
eh  fgye.kyhgciykpckprcwh rmkyecmk.ll--lxh cipyepcUm ykpcwrwferwckp.k
Jr.ep,ckprcjfkdrx,cdyzrc.cvhhwchuuhxkfgymk,ci.mck.zygvc.wo.gk.vrchl
kprc.jmrgerchlc.fkphxyksckhcrgthsc.cg.ucygcmh rcwymk.gkcd.yxchlcpym
higncRorgkf.ddsc.cu.xdhfx .ywc.uur.xrw,c.eerukrwckprckrdrvx. c.gw
(.uu.xrgkds)c.cxrjfzrclxh ckprcjhs,c.gwckprcjyesedrcu.mmrwchfkchl
myvpk,cdr.oygvcmydrgerc.gwcur.erchgerc hxrn

Kprcghjdrmkc ygwmc.xrcghkcuxhhlc.v.ygmkc.k hmuprxyecehgwykyhgmchlckpym
zygwncUm ykp’mcrsrmcedhmrw,churgrw,cedhmrwc.v.ygnc.gwcuxrmrgkdscpym
xrvfd.xcjxr.kpygv,co.xyrwcjsc.gchee.myhg.dcmghxr,ci.mc.wwrwckhckprcxrmk
hlckprcm .ddcmhfgwmchlckprcmf  rxc.lkrxghhgn

Kprcmp.whichlckprcerw.xci.mc.uuxrey.jdscdhgvrxciprgcprc.ihzrciykpckp.k
mfwwrgcmk.xkcipyepcvrgrx.ddsckrx yg.krmcmdrrucygc.cv.xwrg-ep.yxnc.
vd.gerc.kcpymci.kepckhdwcpy ckp.kcykci.mcedhmrchgclyorch’edhez,c.cl.ek
ipyepci.mcehglyx rwc.c h rgkcd.krxcjsckprc.xxyo.dchlckprcu.xdhfx .yw
iphcp.wc.gmirxrwckprcmf  hgmchlckprckrdrvx.up-jhsncMprc.uur.xrwckh
jrckprcmhdrcmfxoyohxchlckprcdykkdrcihxdwckp.kcp.wcykmcergkxrcygckpr
mrxo.gkm’cp.ddnc.cmhxkchlclr .drcE.m.jy.ge.n

“Ycp.orcufkcshfxckr.cygckprcp.dd,cmyxn”

“Shfcehfdwcp.orcurxlhx rwcghcghjdrxchxc hxrcep.xyk.jdrck.mz,”cUm ykp
.mmfxrwcprx;c.gw,cp.oygvcehxxrekrwc.cerxk.ygcmkyllgrmmchlcdy jcjs
 r.gmchlc .mm.vr,cirgkcygncYkcheefxxrwckhcpy ckp.kcRor,c.mmywfhfm
ihxzrxckphfvpcmprci.m,c yvpkcp.orczghezrwchllcygchxwrxckhczrrucpy 
eh u.gsn

Kprcphurcuxhorwco.ygnc.cmygvdrcefucmkhhwcjdr.zdschgckprckx.sncRykprx
Rorci.mcmfurxyhxckhckprclr ygygrcu.mmyhgclhxckr.chxcmprci.mcp.oygvcprxm
fucygckprcdyjx.xsncLyddrwciykpcmh rkpygvchlckprcm.wgrmmcipyepcprcp.w
lrdkc.kckprcmyvpkchlckprckhydygvcjrrm,cUm ykpcr j.xzrwchgcpymcmhdyk.xs
 r.d,cihgwrxygvcmhxxhilfddsc.kckprcurxorxmrgrmmcipyepc .wrcvyxdmcihxz
iprgckprxrci.mcghchgrckhci.kepckpr n

Ykci.mcorxsc.vxrr.jdrcprxrcygckprcehhdgrmmchlckprcp.ddncKprcvxr.kcwhhx
hlckprce.mkdrci.mchurg,c.gwckpxhfvpcykcprcp.wc.coyrichlcd.igmcj.kprwcyg
.ckpyxmk-uxhohzygvcmfgdyvpkncKpxhfvpckprcvxrrg-j.yarcwhhxckhcpymcdrlk,
ipyepcdrwckhckprcmrxo.gkm’cbf.xkrxm,c.gchee.myhg.dcmp.xucvyvvdrcv.or
roywrgerchlckprcuxrmrgerchlcpf .gyks,cjfkc.u.xkclxh ckp.kcprc yvpkcp.or
jrrgc.dhgrcygckprcihxdwncHgerc.v.ygcprclrddcygkhc.cwxr. sc rwyk.kyhg,
.gwckprxrcymcdykkdrcxr.mhgckhcwhfjkckp.kcprcihfdwcmphxkdscp.or
wymvx.erwcpy mrdlcjscl.ddygvc.mdrruclhxckprcmrehgwcky rcygc.cmygvdr
.lkrxghhg,ciprgcprci.mcxrmkhxrwckhc.drxkgrmmcjsckprcmfwwrgc.uur.x.ger
hlc.clhxryvgcjhwscygckprchurgcwhhxi.snc.v.ygmkckprcj.ezvxhfgwchlcvhdwrg
dyvpkc.cjd.ezclyvfxrcp.wc.jxfukdsc .gylrmkrwcykmrdln

Kprcmp.xucu.gvchlc.uuxrprgmyhgcipyepcx.gckpxhfvpcUm ykp’mcehgmeyhfmgrmm
dyzrc.gcrdrekxyecmphez,ce.fmygvcpy ckhcmkyllrgcdyzrcmh rciydwcexr.kfxr
mfxuxymrwcygckprcihhwm,ci.mcwfrckhckprc h rgk.xscjrdyrlckp.kckpr
gri-eh rxci.mckprcdhe.dcoye.x,chlciphmrcehgorxm.kyhg.dcuhirxmcprcp.w
p.wcrqurxyrgerchgckprcmrehgwcw.schlcpymcoymyknc.ghkprxcvd.gercmphirw
py ckp.kcprcp.wcjrrgckhhcurmmy ymkyencKpymci.mcghkckprcoye.xncYkci.m
mh rhgrciph cprcp.wcgrorxcmrrgcjrlhxr--.cmdy c.gwcvx.erlfdcshfgvc .g
iykpc.cw.xz,cygkrddyvrgkcl.er,ciphcmkhhwcjdygzygvcygckprcmfjwfrwcdyvpk
hlckprcp.ddciykpcrsrmcghkcsrkc.eefmkh rwckhckprc.jmrgerchlcmkxhgv
mfgmpygrncVxr.kdscxrdyrorw,cUm ykpcxhmrc.gwc.uuxh.eprwcpy n

“P.ddh!”cm.ywckprcgri-eh rxnc“Ycwywg’kcmrrcshfncYk’mcbfykrcw.xzcygcprxr
.lkrxchfkmywrn”

“Kprcdyvpkcymcudr.m.gkdscwy ,”c.vxrrwcUm ykpn

“YmcDhxwcR mihxkpc.gsiprxrc.jhfk?”

“Yclr.xcghkncPrcp.mcdrvvrwcyk,c.eeh u.gyrwcjsckprcrgkyxrcphfmrphdw,ckh
mfurxygkrgwckprcfgorydygvchlc.c r hxy.dc.kcJxywvrlhxwckh--ylc sc r hxs
mrxormc rcxyvpkds--kprcd.krcP.xkdrscXrwwymp,cRmbn,cTnUn,c nUncYmckprxr
.gskpygvcYce.gcwh?”

“Irdd,cY’orceh rckhcmk.s,cshfczghin”

“Ygwrrw?”

“D.wscEhgmk.gercygoykrwc rckhcu.sc.coymykc.mcmhhgc.mcYcxr.eprwcRgvd.gwn”

“.p!cKprgcshfcp.orceh rclxh clhxryvgcu.xkm?”

“E.g.w.n”

Um ykpcmk.xkrwcmdyvpkdsncKpym,cprcurxeryorw,ci.mcvhygvckhceh udye.kr
 .kkrxmncKprcd.mkckpygvcprcwrmyxrwci.mckprc.wwykyhgckhckprcJd.gwygvm
eyxedrchlchgrcl. ydy.xciykpcE.g.w.ncGhkpygvcihfdwc ydyk.krc.v.ygmkcpym
ur.erchlc ygwc hxrckp.gckprcmheyrkschlc.c .gciphcihfdwci.gkckhcrqep.gvr
iykpcpy coyrimchgckp.kcvxhiygvcehfgkxsn

“Hp,cE.g.w.?”cprcm.ywn

“Yciyxrw,”cuxherrwrwckprchkprx,c“jfkcYcmfuuhmrcykce. rc.lkrxcrorxsjhws
p.wcdrlknc.p,ckp.kc fmkcjrc sckrdrvx. chgckp.kck.jdrchorxckprxrncY
i.dzrwcfuclxh ckprcmk.kyhgn”cPrci.mcx. jdygvcywdsc.jhfkckprcp.ddc.lkrx
kprcl.mpyhgchlchgrcjxr.zygvcgricvxhfgwncPrcu.fmrwc.kc.gchee.myhg.d
k.jdr,ckprchgrciprxr,ciprgck.zygvc.lkrx-wyggrxcehllrr,c ymmcUr.orsci.m
ihgkckhcmykncPrcuyezrwcfuc.cjhhz,c.gwcfkkrxrwc.cvx.kylyrwcd.fvpnc“Hgr
hlc scdykkdrckpygvm,”cprcm.ywn

“Hgrchlcip.k?”cm.ywcUm ykpn

“Kpymcjhhznc_MhgvmchlcMbf.dhxn_cYcixhkrcykn”

“Shfcixhkrcyk!”

“Srmnc scg. r’mc eKhwwncX.dmkhgc eKhwwncYcrqurekcshfcp.orcpr.xwckpr 
mur.zchlc r?”


§c2

Kprc ygwchlc.c .gciphcp.mcfgwrxk.zrgc.c ymmyhgc.mcwrdye.krc.mcUm ykp’m
.kcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdrcymcgrermm.xydsc.drxkncRorxcmygercprcp.wcmkruurw
ygkhckprclyorch’edhezckx.ygc.kcU.wwygvkhg,ciprgcpymc.worgkfxrc yvpk
p.orcjrrgcm.ywclhx .ddsckhcp.orcmk.xkrw,cUm ykpcp.wci.dzrwci.xyds,
dyzrchgrcygc.ctfgvdrchgciph cmfwwrgc.gwcfgrqurekrwckpygvmc yvpkcuhfger
hfkc.kc.gsc h rgkncKpymce.d c.gghfger rgkclxh ckprcmdy cshfgvc .g,
kprxrlhxr,ckphfvpcykcfgwhfjkrwdscmk.xkdrwcpy ,cwywcghkcwruxyorcpy chl
pymcl.efdkyrmncHgckprcehgkx.xs,cykcbfyezrgrwckpr ncPymclyxmkc.ekyhg
i.mckhcmkrucgy jdsckhckprck.jdrchgcipyepckprckrdrvx. cd.sc.i.ykygvckpr
xrkfxgchlcDhxwcR mihxkp,cpymcmrehgwci.mckhcmdyuckprcrgordhurcygkhcpym
uhezrkncYkci.mcy urx.kyorckp.kckrdrvx. mcmyvgrwc eKhwwcmphfdwcghkcdyr
.jhfkcdhhmrcipydrcprci.mcrgthsygvckprcphmuyk.dykschlckprce.mkdrn

Kpymcwhgr,cprcehglxhgkrwckprcshfgvc .gn

“Eh r,ceh r!”cprcm.ywciykpcbfyrkcmrorxyksn

Prci.mcrqkxr rdscvx.krlfdckhc.czygwdscUxhoywrgercipyepcp.wc.xx.gvrw
kp.kckpymcygkrxoyricmphfdwck.zrcud.erc.kc.cky rciprgcghjhwscjfkcpy mrdl
i.mcygckprcphfmrn

“Shfcm.sckp.kcshfc.xrcX.dmkhgc eKhww,ckprc.fkphxchlckprmrcuhr m?”

“Srm,cYcwhn”

“Kprgcip.k,”cm.ywcUm ykpcygeymyords,c“Ymc.cu.drcu.x.jhd.chlcThs?”

“Rx--ip.k?”cm.ywckprcgri-eh rxcygc.gcrglrrjdrwcohyerncKprxrci.m
 .gylrmkcygcpymcwr r.ghfxcghic.c .xzrwcgrxohfmgrmmn

“.gwcprxrcymc.ghkprx,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“‘Kpr----’cI.ykc.c ygfkr,cY’ddcvrk
ykcmhhgncSrmnc‘Kprcmyjyd.gk,cmergkrwcmydrgerckp.kcmpy  rxrwciprxrcir
m.kn’cEhfdwcshfchjdyvrc rciykpc.cwy.vx. chlckp.kchgr?”

“Y--Y----cIp.kc.xrcshfck.dzygvc.jhfk?”

Um ykpcmkxrkeprwchfkc.cdhgvc.x c.gwcu.kkrwcpy c.d hmkc.llrekyhg.krdschg
kprcmphfdwrxn

“Yk’mcdfezscshfc rkc rcjrlhxrcshfcp.wckhcl.erckprchkprxm,”cprcm.ywn
“Yclr.xckp.kcshfcfgwrxkhhzckpymcdykkdrcorgkfxrciykphfkckphxhfvpds
rbfyuuygvcshfxmrdlncKprscihfdwcp.orcwrkrekrwcshfxcy uhmkfxrcygckpr
lyxmkc ygfkrn”

“Ip.kcwhcshfc r.g--y uhmkfxr?cYcwhg’kczghicip.kcshf’xrck.dzygvc.jhfkn”

Um ykpci.vvdrwcpymclhxrlygvrxc.kcpy cxruxh.eplfddsn

“ scwr.xcEh x.wr,cYc .sc.mcirddckrddcshfc.kchgerckp.kckprcvrgfygr
 eKhwwcymc.gchdwc.gwcwr.xclxyrgwchlc ygrncYcp.wc.cdhgvc.gwcrgkrxk.ygygv
ehgorxm.kyhgciykpcpy chgdsc.clricw.smc.vhncMhckp.k,cYckpygzcirc .s
ehglywrgkdsc.mmrxk,cymckp.kncHxc. cYcixhgv?”

“Hp,cprdd!”cm.ywckprcshfgvc .gnc.gw,cldhuuygvcjhgrdrmmdscygkhc.cep.yx,
prc huurwcpymclhxrpr.wcygcfgwymvfymrwc.gwc.jtrekcehdd.umrn

Mydrgercxryvgrwclhxc.ipydrn

“Ip.k,”cygbfyxrwckprcoymykhx,cx.ymygvc.cw. ucl.erckp.kcmphgrcu.ddywds
ygckprcwy cdyvpk,c“.xrcshfcvhygvckhcwhc.jhfkcyk?”

“Ghkpygv,cEh x.wr--jsckprci.s,cip.kcymcshfxcg. r?”

“Ehhkrmn”

“Ghkpygv,cEh x.wrcEhhkrmncGhkpygvcip.krorxncShfc.xrclxrrckhcdrvcyk
prgerciprgrorxcshfclrrdcwymuhmrwncYgcl.ek,ckprcmhhgrxcshfcwhcmh,ckpr
jrkkrxcYcmp.ddcjrcudr.mrwn”

“M.s!cKp.k’mcw.xgrwcvhhwchlcshfn”

“Ghkc.kc.dd,cghkc.kc.ddn”

“Shf’xrc.gc.er----”

“Hp,cpfmp!”cygkrxxfukrwcUm ykpc hwrmkdsnc“Jfkcjrlhxrcshfcvhckrddc rchgr
hxckihckpygvmncYck.zrcykckp.kcshfxchjtrekcygceh ygvcprxrci.mckhcp.orc.
uhuc.kcD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcgrezd.er?”

“Srmn”

“Yckphfvpkc.mc fepnc.gwcip.kc .wrcshfcmfuuhmrckp.kckprcxr.dc eKhww
ihfdwcghkcjrcprxrciprgcshfc.xxyorw?”

“Hp,ckp.kci.mc.ddcxyvpkncYckx.orddrwchorxciykpckp.kcvfsc eKhwwchgckpr
jh.k,c.gwcm.ic.cvhhwcwr.dchlcpy ciprgcircvhkckhcDhgwhgncPrci.mclfddchl
phicpr’wcjrrgcygoykrwcprxr,c.gwcYcvhkcykchfkchlcpy ckp.kcghchgrcprxr
zgricpy cjscmyvpknc.gwckprgchgrc.lkrxghhgcYc rkcpy cygckprcMkx.gw,c.dd
ihxzrwcfunc .wwrxckp.gc.cphxgrkncM.ywcpr’wcjrrgcygmfdkrwc.gwcihfdwg’k
eh rcwhigckhckpymcud.ercylckprsce. rc.gwcjrvvrwcpy chgckpryxcjrgwrw
zgrrmncYcehfdwg’kc .zrchfkcip.kcykci.mc.ddc.jhfk,cjfkc.uu.xrgkdscpr
p.wc rkcDhxwcR mihxkpc.gwcp.wg’kcjrrgckxr.krwcxyvpkncPrckhdwc rcprci.m
vhygvcmkx.yvpkchllckhcU.xymn”

“.gwcwywcpr?”

“MfxrncYcm.icpy chllc smrdlc.kcEp.xygvcExhmmncKp.k’mcipscykcmrr rwcmfep
.ceygepceh ygvcprxrcygmkr.wchlcpy ncYk’mctfmkc scw.xgrwcdfezckp.kckpr
lyxmkc .gcYcxfgcygkhcymc.clxyrgwchlcpymncPhici.mcYckhczghickp.kcprcp.w
.gsclxyrgwmckpymcmywr?cPrckhdwc rcpr’wcgrorxcjrrgcygcRgvd.gwcjrlhxrn”

“Ygckpymcdylr,cEh x.wrcEhhkrm,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“irc fmkc.di.sm
wymkygvfympcjrkirrgckprcFgdyzrdsc.gwckprcY uhmmyjdrncYkci.mcfgdyzrds,
.mcshfcm.s,ckp.kcshfcihfdwc rrkc.gsclxyrgwchlc eKhww’mcygckpym
hfk-hl-kpr-i.scmuhk;c.gwcshfcx.mpdschxwrxrwcshfxc hor rgkmchgckpr
.mmf ukyhgckp.kcykci.mcy uhmmyjdrncIykpcip.kcxrmfdk?cKprcexscvhrmcxhfgw
kprcFgwrxihxdw,c‘UhhxchdwcEhhkrmcp.mc .wrc.cjdhh rx!’”

“Shfcgrrwg’kcxfjcykcygn”

“Yc. chgdscwhygvcmhclhxcshfxcvhhwncYkcymc scr.xgrmkcphurckp.kcshf
iyddcd.sckpymcdrmmhgckhcpr.xkc.gwcuxhlykcjscykncIphczghimckp.kcykc .s
ghkcjrckprckfxgygv-uhygkcygcshfxce.xrrx?cSr.xmcprger,ciprgcshfc.xr
.cipykr-p.yxrwc.gwchufdrgkc .gchlcdrymfxr,cp.oygvcxrkyxrwclxh ckpr
exhhzcjfmygrmmciykpc.ceh lhxk.jdrclhxkfgr,cshfc .scdhhzcj.ezchgcshfx
rqurxyrgerchlckh-w.sc.gwcxr.dymrckp.kcykci.mckprc r.gmchlcmk.xkygv
shfchgckprcxh.wckhcMfeermmncShfciyddcd.scmkxrmmchgcykciprgcshfc.xr
ygkrxoyrirwclhxckprc_IrrzdscJfxvd.x_chgc‘PhicYcJrv.g’cncncncJfk,
k.dzygvchlcmk.xkygvchgcxh.wm,cYckpygzckp.kcurxp.umcykcihfdwcjrc.mcirdd
ylcshfcghicp.wc.cw.mpc.kckprchgrcdr.wygvckhckprcx.ydi.s-mk.kyhgncKpr
phfmrphdwc .scjrcxrkfxgygvc.kc.gsc h rgkcghin”

“Kp.k’mcxyvpk,”c.vxrrwckprcoymykhxn

“Yckpygzcmh,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“YckpygzcmhncShfciyddcjrcp.uuyrxciprgcshf
.xrc.i.sclxh cprxrncHgerchfkmywrckprce.mkdrcuxreygekm,c.cvxr.kciryvpk
iyddcxhddchllcshfxc ygwnc.cdykkdrclxrmpc.yxciyddcufkckprcxhmrmcygcshfx
eprrzmncShfczghicshfxci.schfk?”

Prcmpruprxwrwckprcshfgvc .gckhckprcwhhxc.gwciykpc.cehxwy.dcufmpcmk.xkrw
py chgcpymci.sncKprgciykpcdhgvcmkxywrmcprcx.gcfumk.yxmckhckprcdyjx.xs
khclygwcRorn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

.kc.jhfkckprcm. rc h rgk,chgckprcud.klhx chlc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmcmk.kyhg,
 ymmc.ydrrgcUr.orsci.mc.dyvpkygvclxh ckprckx.ygcipyepcp.wcdrlk
Jxywvrlhxwcmh rcp.dlc.gcphfxcr.xdyrxnc.cpr.w.epr,ckprclxfykchlcmk.gwygv
.jhfkcygckprcphkcmfg,cp.wce.fmrwcprxckhclhxvhckprcudr.mfxrchlcpr.xygv
DhxwcR mihxkpcwrdyorxcpymcmurrep:c.gwcmprcp.wcmdyuurwcj.ezchgc.
ehgorgyrgkckx.ygciykpckprcygkrgkyhgchlcdsygvcwhigc.gwcxrmkygvncLygwygv,
hgcxr.epygvc .xzrkcJd.gwygvm,ckp.kcprxcpr.wci.mc fepcjrkkrx,c.gwckpr
pr.kchlckprc.lkrxghhgcjrygvcghichorx,cmprcmk.xkrwckhci.dzckhckpr
e.mkdr,cvxr.kdscxrlxrmprwcjsc.cehhdcjxrrarcipyepcp.wcmuxfgvcfuclxh ckpr
irmkncMprcdrlkckprckhigc.kc.d hmkckprcrq.ekcky rciprgckprcwymehgmhd.kr
 xncEhhkrmci.mcu.mmygvchfkchlckprcjyvcv.krmc.kckprcrgwchlckprce.mkdr
wxyorn


§c3

Kprcvxrsc rd.gephdscipyepc.eeh u.gyrwc xncEhhkrmcdyzrc.cwydyvrgk
murekxrc.mcprcjrv.gcpymci.dzcj.ezckhckprckhigchlc .xzrkcJd.gwygvm,c.gw
ipyepcghkcrorgckprcwrdyvpklfdcrorgygvcehfdwcwymurd,ci.mcwfrcuxy .xyds,
hlcehfxmr,ckhckp.kcmyezrgygvcmrgmrchlcwrlr.kcipyepc.lldyekmc.c .gciphmr
pyvpcphurmcp.orcjrrgcixrezrwc.kckprcorxscygmk.gkciprgcmfeermmcp.m
mrr rwcygcmyvpkncHgerchxckiyercygckprcdylrchlcrorxsc .gckprxrcl.ddmckh
pymcdhkcmh rkpygvcipyepce.gchgdscjrcwrmexyjrwc.mc.cmhlkcmg.u,c.gwcyk
p.wcmrr rwckhc xncEhhkrmckp.kckpymcorgkfxrchlcpymckhcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdr
e. rcygkhckp.kce.krvhxsncPrcp.w,cdyzrc hmkc r jrxmchlcpymcuxhlrmmyhg,
p.wcpymcfumc.gwcwhigmcygckprcu.mk,cjfkc.kcd.mk,cprckhdwcpy mrdl,ckpr
vhwwrmmcLhxkfgrcp.wcp.gwrwcpy cmh rkpygvchgc.cud.krciykpci.krxexrmm
xhfgwcykncHgercrmk.jdymprwcygckprce.mkdr,ckprxrcihfdwcp.orcjrrgc.
pfgwxrwchuuhxkfgykyrmchlc.epyroygvckprce.ukfxrchlcD.wscEhgmk.ger’m
grezd.er:c.gwcykcp.wcdhhzrwc.mckphfvpc.ddcprcp.wckhcwhci.mckhci.dzcyg,
.gghfgercpy mrdl,c.gwcjrckxr.krwc.mckprcphghfxrwcvfrmknc.mcprcmdhfeprw
 hhwydscjrkirrgckprcwfmkscprwvrmckp.kclxygvrwckprcxh.wckhc .xzrk
Jd.gwygvm,cRwi.xwcEhhkrmck.mkrwckprcjykkrxgrmmckp.kchgdsckphmrczghi
iphmrcud.gmcp.orcjrrgcfumrkcjsckprcpfgwxrwkpcep.gern

Jfkckpymci.mcghkc.ddncYgc.wwykyhgckhckprcm.wgrmmchlclxfmkx.krwcphur,cpr
i.mc.dmhcrqurxyrgeygvckprc.gvfympchlckxhfjdrwc r hxyrmncGhkchgdsci.m
kprcUxrmrgkckhxkfxygvcpy ,cjfkckprcU.mkcp.wceh rckhcdylrc.gwctf urw
hfkc.gwcjykkrgcpy nc.cmhxxhi’mcexhigchlcmhxxhicymcxr r jrxygvcp.uuyrx
kpygvm,c.gwckpymci.mcip.kcRwi.xwcEhhkrmci.mcwhygvcghincYkcymc.kc h rgkm
dyzrckpymckp.kc.c .gcgrrwmc.cih .g’mckrgwrxce.xr,c.gwc xncEhhkrmcp.w
dhmkckprchgdscih .gcygciph cprcehfdwcp.orcehglywrwcpymcvxyrl,ckprchgds
ih .gciphcihfdwcp.orcfgwrxmkhhwc.gwcms u.kpymrwn

Ircp.orcjrrgcygkxhwferwckhc xncEhhkrmc.kc.cuhygkcygcpymce.xrrxciprgcpr
i.mcux.ekymygvcfuhgcwxscd.gw;cjfkckp.kci.mcghkcpymcephmrgcrgoyxhg rgkn
Fgkydc.clric hgkpmcj.ezcpymcjfmygrmmcp.wcd.ygcfuhgcwrruci.krxmncKpr
m.dkcmergkchlckprcmr.ci.mcygcpymcjdhhwncKhcufkcykc hxrcrq.ekds,cprcp.w
jrrgcjscuxhlrmmyhgc.ce.xw-mp.xurxchgckprc.kd.gkyecdygrxm;c.gwcykci.m
wfxygvckpymcurxyhwckp.kcprcp.wcdhorwc.gwcdhmkncLhxckpxrrcsr.xmc.gw
 hxrcprcp.wcihxzrwcygcurxlrekcp.x hgsciykpckprcd.wsciph,ckphfvpcmpr
.whukrwc.co.xyrkschlcg. rmclhxcufxuhmrmchlckx.ord,ci.mczghigckhcprx
y  rwy.krceyxedrc.mcM hhkpcDyaayrncPrcp.wcjrrgckprcux.ekykyhgrx,cmpr
kprcwrehs,c.gwckpryxmcp.wcjrrgchgrchlckphmrcywr.dcjfmygrmmcu.xkgrxmpyum
ipyepchgrcmhcmrdwh c rrkmciykpcygc.cihxdwchlcesgyeym c.gwc ymkxfmkn
Eh x.wrmpyucp.wcxyurgrwcygkhcmh rkpygvcwrrurxc.gwc hxrcm.exrw,c.gwcyk
i.mc.ddcmrkkdrwcjrkirrgckpr ckp.kciprgckprscgrqkckhfeprwcGricShxz,c xn
Ehhkrm,cylcmkyddc.kcdyjrxks,cmphfdwcuxherrwckhckprcEykscP.ddclhxc.
 .xxy.vr-dyerger;ciprgckprscp.wcbf.xxrddrw--bf.xxrddrwcyxxrohe.jdschorx
hgrchlckphmrckxyldygvcuhygkmchorxcipyepcdhorxmcwhcbf.xxrdncMh rc.jmfxw
wymufkrc.mckhckprcuxhurxcwyoymyhgchlckprcbfykrc r.vxrcmf chjk.ygrw
lxh c.ce.kkdrc yddyhg.yxrchgckpryxcd.mkcohs.vrcp.wc .xxrwckpryxcvhdwrg
wxr. mncHgrcihxwcp.wcdrwckhc.ghkprxncKprcd.ws,c.lkrxcih .g’mcp.jyk,
p.wckprcd.mkchlckprcmrxyrm,c.gwcrorgc xncEhhkrmci.mclhxerwckhc.w yk
kp.kcykci.mc.cuyuuygncMprcp.wcmuhzrgcykchgckprcuyrxc.kcGricShxz,c.gw
kprgcu.mmrwchfkchlcpymcdylrnc.gwciykpcprxcp.wcvhgrc.ddcpymcdfezncYk
i.mc.mcylcprxcvhygvcp.wcjxhfvpkc.cefxmrcfuhgcpy ncHgckprcorxscgrqk
kxyucprcp.wcp.wc.gcfglhxkfg.krc ymfgwrxmk.gwygvciykpc.gcyxxyk.jdr
vrgkdr .gclxh ckprc ywwdrcIrmk,ciph,cuybfrwc.kcip.kcprcehgmywrxrw--ghk
fgxr.mhg.jds--kprcfgwfrcuxhuhxkyhgchlczygvmc.gwc.ermcygckprcp.gwm
ipyepc xncEhhkrmcp.wcjrrgcwr.dygvcpy mrdl,crquxrmmrwcpymcwymudr.mfxr
jscjykygvchllckprclyxmkcthygkchlckprchkprx’mcxyvpkcygwrqclygvrx--kpfm
ufkkygvc.gc.jxfukcrgwckhc.cjxyddy.gkce.xrrxncLhxcykci.mchgckpymclygvrx
kp.kc xncEhhkrmcuxygeyu.ddscxrdyrwclhxckprc.d hmkc .vye.dcrllrekm
ipyepcprci.mcihgkckhcuxhwferciykpc.cu.ezchlce.xwmc.lkrxc.cdykkdrcbfyrk
mpflldygvn

Iykpc.gc.epygvcmrgmrchlcip.kc yvpkcp.orcjrrgcprckphfvpkcghichlcpymcdhmk
DyaayrncXrvxrklfddscprc.w ykkrwckhcpy mrdlckp.kcmprcp.wc.di.smcjrrg
kprcjx.ygmchlckprclyx nc.cerxk.ygc .gf.dcwrqkrxykscprcp.wcghcwhfjk
uhmmrmmrw,cjfkcykci.mcrorxcDyaayrciphcp.wcjrrgcxrmuhgmyjdrclhxckpr
lygrxcihxzncYlckprscp.wcmkyddcjrrgcu.xkgrxm,cprcxr.ddscjrdyrorwckp.k
mprcehfdwcp.orcwymehorxrwcmh rci.schlcvrkkygvcxhfgwckprchjmk.edrmcipyep
p.wcxr.xrwckpr mrdormcghicjrkirrgcpy mrdlc.gwckprcgrezd.erchlcD.ws
Ehgmk.gercZrrjdrncYkci.mcygc.cpf jdrc.gwcehgkxykrcmuyxykckp.kcRwi.xw
Ehhkrmcuxherrwrwchgcpymci.sckhc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

 ymmcUr.ors,c r.gipydr,ciph,cykciyddcjrcxr r jrxrw,ci.mc hoygvcmdhids
.dhgvckprcxh.wclxh ckprc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmcrgw,ci.mclygwygvcprxci.dzcjhkp
xrmklfdc.gwcrgths.jdrncKprxrcirxrc h rgkm,cykcp.mckhcjrcxrehxwrw,ciprg
kprcmheyrkschlcprxcphmkrmmc.gwcprxcphmkrmm’mcxrd.kyhgmci.mcmh rkpygvchl
.cmkx.ygckhc ymmcUr.ors;c.gwcmprci.mcvd.wckhcjrc.dhgrncPrxcpr.w.eprcp.w
wym.uur.xrw,c.gwcmprcxrorddrwcygckprcbfyrkcrorgygvcpfmpnc.jhfkcghi,cyl
mprcp.wcghkcp.wckprcmrgmrckhcwrk.epcprxmrdlclxh ckprce.mkdrcud.khhg,
mprcihfdw,cmprcxrldrekrw,cjrcdymkrgygvckhcDhxwcR mihxkp’mcmurrepchgckpr
mfjtrekchlckprcd.krcP.xkdrscXrwwymp,cTnUn,c nUn:c.ckhuyecipyepcrorgckpr
ghjdrmkchlchx.khxmc yvpkcp.orcl.ydrwckhcxrgwrxcxr.ddscvxyuuygvnc.gw
ip.kcmprczgrichlcprxcphmkcv.orcprxcdykkdrcehglywrgercygcpymcuhirxmchl
hx.khxsn

Srm,cmprci.mcirddchfkchlcykncKprcvrgkdrcjxrrarcud.srwcmhhkpygvdscfuhg
prxcl.erncPrxcwrdye.krdsc hwrddrwcghmkxydmcwx.gzcygcvx.krlfddsckpr
mergkclxh ckprcprwvrxhimncMh riprxrchfkchlcmyvpkc.ckpxfmpci.mcmygvygvn
.gwcmhc horwci.mc ymmcUr.orscjsckprcur.erc.gwcmirrkgrmmchlcykc.ddckp.k
mpr,ckhh,cjrv.gckhcmygvn

P.wckphmrciphcrgthsrwckprcuxyoydrvrchlcprxc.ebf.ygk.gerc.kcJd.gwygvm
E.mkdrcjrrgcyglhx rwckp.kc ymmcUr.orsci.mc.jhfkckhcmygv,ckprscihfdw
whfjkdrmmcp.orcehgmywrxrwckpr mrdormchgclyx cvxhfgwcylce.ddrwcfuhg
khc .zrc.cehgtrekfxrc.mckhckprcksurchlcmhgvcipyepcmprcihfdwcmrdrekn
Mh rkpygvcbf.ygk,cwxr. s,c.cdykkdrciymklfdcncncnckp.kcihfdwcp.orcjrrg
kprcfgyorxm.dcvfrmmcncncncmh rchdw-ihxdwcj.dd.w,cuhmmyjdscncncn

Ip.kc ymmcUr.orsc.ekf.ddscm.gv--ygc.cmhlk,c rwyk.kyorcohyercdyzrckp.k
hlc.cdyggrkci.zygvckhcvxrrkc.cgricw.ig--i.mckp.kcefxyhfmceh uhmykyhg
zghigc.mc“KprcJr.drcMkxrrkcJdfrmn”

.mcmprcxr.eprwckprcd.mkcdygr,cmprcjxhzrchllc.jxfukdsncMprci.m,cmpr
urxeryorw,cghcdhgvrxc.dhgrncWhigckprcxh.wckhi.xwcprx,ci.dzygv
urgmyordscdyzrchgrciykpc.cmrexrkcmhxxhi,c.c .gci.mc.uuxh.epygv;c.gw
lhxc.gcygmk.gk,c.mcmprckfxgrwckprcehxgrx,cmh rkpygvcygcpymc.uur.x.ger
mrr rwckhce.kepcprxcjsckprckpxh.kc.gwcprxcjxr.kpce. rcmp.xudsn

“Vrr!”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsn

Mprci.mcprxmrdlc.v.ygckprcgrqkc h rgknc.cep.gercxrmr jd.gercp.wc ymdrw
prxncMprcehfdwcghkcmrrckprc .g’mcl.er,clhxcpymcpr.wci.mcjrgk,cjfkcphi
i.mcykcuhmmyjdrcncncn

.gwckprg,ciprgcprci.mcbfykrcedhmr,cprcx.ymrwcpymcpr.w,c.gwckprcehfgks
hlcMpxhumpyxr,c.mcl.xc.mcykci.mcoymyjdrckhcprxc. .arwcrsrm,crqrefkrw
.cmfwwrgc.gwcreergkxyecw.gerncKxrrmcjhjjrwcfuc.gwcwhig,cprwvrxhim
mpy  yrwcdyzrc.cJxh.wi.scephxfm;c.gwclxh chfkchlckprc ywmkchlckpr
ipyxdygvcehfgkxs-mywrc.cohyercmuhzrn

“Dya!”

“Rwwyr!”crt.efd.krwc ymmcUr.orscl.ygkds,c.gwcm.kcwhigcygc.cpr.uchgc.
vx.mmscj.gzn


§c4

“Irdd,clhxcvhhwgrmm’cm.zr!”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsn

Mpxhumpyxrcp.wcjreh rcmk.kyechgerc hxrncMprcmk.xrwc.kcpy ,ciywr-rsrwn

“E.gcshfckyrcyk!”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsn

Mprcx.gcprxcv.archorxcpy chgerc.v.ygclxh cpr.wckhclhhkn

“Irdd,cylckpymc.yg’kckprce.k’mcipymzrxm!”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsnc.gwciykp
kpymclyg.dcuxhghfger rgkcmprcxhmrclxh cprxcj.gz,cmh rip.kcxrmkhxrw,c.gw
.wwxrmmrwcprxmrdlckhckprck.mzchlcuyezygvcfuchdwckpxr.wmn

“Iprxrorx,”cmprcygbfyxrw,c“wywcshfcmuxygvclxh ,cRw?”

Kprxrci.mcghkpygvcjfkc.llrekyhgcygcprxcohyerncPrxcv.arci.mckp.kchlc.
 hkprxcehgkr ud.kygvcprxcdhgv-dhmkcepydwncKprcu.mkci.mcu.mkc.gwc.cgri
rx.cp.wcjrvfgncYgckprcu.mkcmprcp.wcjrrgceh urddrwckhcwrmexyjrckpymc .g
.mc.cpfgzchlceprrmrc.gwckhcrquxrmmckprchuygyhgckp.kcpymcexhhzrwgrmm
i.mcmfepc.mckhcrg.jdrcpy ckhcpywrc.kciyddcjrpygwc.cmuyx.dcmk.yxe.mr;
jfkcghi,cygckprcthschlckpymcfgrqurekrwcxrfgyhg,c.ddckprmrcp.xmpcoyrim
irxrclhxvhkkrgncKpymci.mcRwwyrcEhhkrm,cprxchdwcmywr-zyez,ceh rcj.ezckh
prxc.lkrxc .gscw.sm,c.gwchgdscghici.mcykcjhxgrcygcfuhgcprxcip.kc.cv.u
ygcprxcdylrcpymcvhygvcp.wc .wrncMprcldfgvcprxmrdlcygkhcpymc.x mciykpc.
vd.wcexsn

 xncEhhkrm,ciphcp.wcghkcjrrgcrqurekygvckpymcwr hgmkx.kyhgchlcrmkrr ,
mk.vvrxrwc.ckxyldrc.kckprcy u.ek,cjfkcxrehorxrwcpy mrdlcmfllyeyrgkds
khcxrkfxgckprcr jx.erciykpcmh rkpygvchlcpymc.geyrgkci.x kpncPrci.m
wrdyvpkrwc.kckpymcehxwy.dyks,cjfkc.dmhcmfxuxymrwncKprc r hxschlckpr
d.ws’mcu.xkygvcihxwmchgckprchee.myhgchlckpryxcd.mkc rrkygvci.mcmkydd
vxrrg,c.gwcprcp.wcghkcxr.dymrwcphicbfyezdscih rgclhxvrkc.gwclhxvyor,
.gwcphic.cmrgmykyorcvyxd,cmkyxxrwcjscmh rcl.geyrwcygtfxs,c .sc.wwxrmmc.
 .gc.mc.cuyr-l.erwcudfvfvdsc.gwcsrkcxrk.ygcygcprxcyg hmkcpr.xkc.ddckpr
hdwcdhorc.gwc.llrekyhgncPrczymmrwc ymmcUr.orsclhgwdsn

“Dya,”cprcm.ywciykpclrxohfx,c“shf’xrcuxrkkyrxckp.gcrorxn”

“Ghicshfcjrp.or,”cxrmuhgwrwc ymmcUr.orscehsdsn

Kprc.xxyo.dchlc.cj..ygvcldhezchlcmprru,crmehxkrwcjsc.cuxyvvympcwhvc.gw
lhddhirwcjsc.cehfudrchlckprcdhe.dcur.m.gkxs,ce.fmrwc.gcygkrx ymmyhgcyg
kprmrckrgwrxcrqep.gvrm;c.gwcjsckprcky rckprcuxhermmyhgcp.wc horwchll
whigckprcxh.wckprscirxrcygc.c hxrcmfyk.jdrclx. rchlc ygwckhcehgorxmr
bfyrkdsc.gwcygc.cux.ekye.dcmuyxyk,ckhceh u.xrcghkrm,c.gwckhclyddcfuckpr
jd.gzmn

“Iprxrorx,”cygbfyxrwc ymmcUr.orsc.v.yg,c“wywcshfcmuxygvclxh ,cRw?cShf
ehfdwchlczghezrwc rcwhigciykpc.clr.kprxciprgcYcm.icshfceh ygvc.dhgvckpr
xh.wncYcehfdwg’kcp.orcjrdyrorwcykci.mcshf,ckpymcl.xclxh ckprcher.gn
Ip.kc.xrcshfcwhygvcygd.gwcdyzrckpym?cK.zygvc.co.e.kyhg,chxc.xrg’kcshf
ihxzygvckprcjh.kmc.gsc hxr?”

“Gh,cDya,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmcm.wdsnc“Y’orcp.wckhcvyorckp.kcfun”

.gwcprcrqpyjykrwckprcpy.kfmciprxrc.gcy uhxk.gkcmrekyhgchlcpymclygvrx
p.wcjrrgc.gwckhdwcpymcu.yglfdck.drncPymceh u.gyhg’mcms u.kpsci.mcj.d 
khcpymcihfgwrwcmhfdn

“Kprcxymzmchlckprcuxhlrmmyhg,chlcehfxmr,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmc hhwyds,
xr hoygvckprcrqpyjykcygchxwrxckhcud.ercpymc.x c.jhfkcprxcmdrgwrxci.ymkn
“Mkydd,cyk’mcwhgrc rcygncYckxyrwchgerchxckiyer,cjfkcYcehfdwg’kcmrr ckh
 .zrckprce.xwmcjrp.orcghc hxr,cmhcYcbfyknc.p,cDya,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrm
iykpclrrdygv,c“shfce.gck.zrcykclxh c rckp.kcY’orcp.wcghcdfezcmyger
shfcdrlkc rncXrvfd.xcphhwhhckprxr’mcjrrgchgc rncYlcY’wci.dzrwcfgwrxc.
d.wwrxchgc.cLxyw.sckhcm .mpc.c yxxhxchorxckprcwh rchlc.cjd.ezce.kcY
ehfdwg’kcp.orcp.wcykckhfvprxn”

“Shfcuhhxcjhs!”

 xncEhhkrmcghwwrwcmh jxrdsn

“Khfvp,”cprc.vxrrw,c“jfkckprxrcykcymncHgdsckpymc.lkrxghhgc sctygq
vf  rwckprcv. rclhxc rc.gwckpxric.cmu.ggrxcygkhckprcuxrkkyrmkcdykkdr
merg.xyhcshfcrorxckphfvpkchlcncncncJfkcdrk’mcghkck.dzc.jhfkc s
kxhfjdrmncIp.kc.xrcshfcwhygvcghi,cDya?”

“ r?cHp,cY’ cdyoygvcgr.xcprxrn”

 xncEhhkrmcmk.xkrwn

“Ghkc .xxyrw?”cprcrqed.y rwcygc.d.x n

“Gh!”cexyrwc ymmcUr.orsciykpcorpr rger,c.gwcmphkc.ckrgwrxcvd.gercfuc.k
pymcl.ernc“.gwcYcvfrmmcshfczghicips,cRwn”

“Shfcwhg’kc r.gcncncncshfcp.wg’kclhxvhkkrgc r?”

“.mcylcYcehfdwcrorxclhxvrkcshf,cRwwyr!cKprxr’mchgdschgrckygksurchgc_ s_
 .gkrduyrern”

“Jfkcykcmkxfezc rcncncncykcmhxkchlcheefxxrwckhc rc.mc.cu.mmygvckphfvpk
kp.k,ciprgcircm.icr.epchkprxcd.mk,cshfcirxrc.c ykrcurrorwciykpcshfx
Rwwyrcncncn”

Ykci.mckprclyxmkc.ddfmyhgcrykprxchlckpr cp.wc .wrckhckprcu.mk
fgudr.m.gkgrmm,c.gwcykce.fmrwc.cl.ygkcjdfmpckhcwsrc ymmcUr.ors’mcmhlk
eprrzn

“Hp,cmpfezm!”cmprcm.ywnc“Y’wclhxvhkkrgc.ddc.jhfkckp.kcgrqkcw.sncYci.m
vhhwc.gwc .wc.kckprcky r,cY’ddc.ddhi,cjfkcylchgdscshf’wce.ddrwc rcfu
grqkc hxgygv,cRwcncncn”

Kprxrci.mc.cmydrger,c.mckprsc fmrwchgcip.kc yvpkcp.orcjrrgn

“Ip.kc.xrcshfcwhygv,cdyoygvcprxr?”c.mzrwc xncEhhkrmc.lkrxc.cuxrvg.gk
u.fmrnc“P.orcshfcxrkyxrw?”

“Gh,c_myx_ncY’ cmykkygvcygc.kc.cv. rciykpcxr.dcihxkpipydrcmk.zrmncJfk,
w.xgcyk,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orscxrvxrklfdds,c“Y’ cihgwrxygvcylcykcymg’kckhh
jyvclhxc rckhcufkckpxhfvpc.dhgrncHp,cRwwyr,cylchgdsckprxrci.mcmh rci.s
shfc.gwc rcehfdwcihxzcykckhvrkprxcdyzrcygckprchdwcw.smn”

“Ip.kcymcyk?”

“Wy. hgwm,cRwwyrnc.cgrezd.erncY’orchgdscp.wchgrcdhhzc.kcykcmhcl.x,cjfk
kp.kci.mcrghfvpncMh rchlckprcjrmkcyercY’orcm.icygcsr.xm,cRwncIhxkp
rorxscergkchlc.cpfgwxrwckphfm.gwcjrxxyrmn”

Kprcehygeywrgercwxriclxh c xncEhhkrmc.cmp.xucrqed. .kyhgn

“.cgrezd.er!”

“Dymkrg,cRw,cipydrcYcmdyucshfckprcdhi-whignc.gw,cm.s,cylcshfczgrickpr
xrdyrlcykci.mckhc rck.dzygvcvhhwcFgykrwcMk.krmc.v.yg!cDyzrck.zygvchll
.cu.yxchlckyvpkcmphrmncY’ cwhygvckprcpyvp-khgrwcmkfllclhxckprc h rgkn
Mhfdlfdnc_Shf_cxr r jrx,cdyzrcYcfmrwckhcufddchgerchxckiyercygckprchdw
w.smncTfmkc.lkrxcshfc.gwc rcp.wckp.kcdykkdrcmu.kchlchfxmcYckphfvpkcY’w
k.zrc.ghkprxckxyucygckprchdwc_.kd.gkye_--lhxerchlcp.jykchxcmh rkpygv,
Ycvfrmmnc.gsi.s,cYcm.ydrw,c.gwcircirxrg’kckihcw.smchfkclxh cGricShxz
iprgcYc .wrckprcjyvvrmkczygwchlc.cpykciykpckprcw. rckpymcgrezd.er
jrdhgvmckhncMrr rwckhck.zrc.cmpygrckhc rcxyvpkc.i.scncncn”

“Ycwhg’kcjd. rcprx!”c fx fxrwc xncEhhkrmcwrohkrwdsn

“Ghicwhg’kcshfcygkrxxfuk,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.ors,c.w ygymkrxygvc.cvx.kylyrw
md.unc“Iprxrci.mcY?cHpcsrmncKpymcprxrcghicD.wscEhgmk.gercZrrjdrcY’ 
krddygvcshfc.jhfkcncncn”

“Ip.k!”

“Ip.k’mckprc .kkrxcghi?”

“D.wscEhgmk.gercZrrjdr?”

“Kp.k’mckprcg. rncMpr’mcDhxwcR mihxkp’mcmymkrx,ciphcdyormc.kc.cjyv
ud.ercfuckprcxh.wncJd.gwygvmcE.mkdrcyk’mce.ddrwncMprcwywg’kcmrr cdyzr
mprci.mc.jdrckhcdrkc rchfkchlcprxcmyvpk,c.gwcY’orcjrrgciykpcprxchllc.gw
hgcrorxcmygercircd.gwrwncY’ coymykygvc.kckprce.mkdrcghin”

.cwrrucmyvp,cdyzrckprcvxh.gchlcmh rcvxr.kcmuyxykcygckx.o.yd,clhxerw
ykmrdlclxh cjrkirrgc xncEhhkrm’mcdyumn

“Irdd,cihfdwg’kckp.kct.xcshf!”cprcwr .gwrwchlceyxef . jyrgkcmu.ernc“Hl
.ddckprcdfezschgrm!cvrkkygvcygkhckprcud.ercdyzrckp.k,ciykpckprcj.gw
ud.sygvc.gwc.cxrwce.xurkcd.ywcwhigclhxcshfckhci.dzchg!cVrr,cylcshf
lrddcwhigc.cirdd,cDya,cshf’wceh rcfuciykpckprcjfezrkncShf’xrc.cpf .g
phxmrmphr,ckp.k’mcip.kcshfc.xrncM.s,cdymkrgncDr  r-krdd-s.-mf l’gncWh
shfczghicip.kc_Y’or_cjrrgcwhygvckpymc.lkrxghhg?cHgdsckxsygvckhcrwvr
ygkhckprcw. ’cud.erc smrdlc.gwcvrkkygvckprc.yxckihc ygfkrmc.lkrxcYci.m
u.mkckprclxhgkcwhhxn”

“Ip.k!c_Shf_,cRw?”

“MfxrncShf’xrcghkckprchgdschgrckp.k’mcpr.xwchlckp.kcehddrekyhgchlcyern”

“Hp,cRw!”cJykkrxcwym.uuhygk rgkcx.gvcygc ymmcUr.ors’mcohyernc“Ylchgds
shfcehfdwcp.orcihxzrwcyk!c rc.gwcshfcu.xkgrxmc.v.yg!cYkcpfxkmckhckpygz
hlcykncIp.kci.mckprcmkfllcshfcufddrwckhcvrkcshfcyg?”

 xncEhhkrmcmhcl.xclhxvhkcpy mrdlcygcpymc.vhgschlcmuyxykc.mckh
rqurekhx.krcwymvfmkrwdsc.kc.cu.mmygvclxhvnc.gwcrorgcygckpymckxyoy.d
rgkrxuxymrcl.ydfxrcwhvvrwcpy ncPrc ymmrwckprclxhv,cipyepciykpwxricygkh
kprcvx.mmciykpc.cehdwcdhhzchlcwym.uuxho.dn

“ r?”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmnc“YckphfvpkcY’wcvhkcykcm hhkpncY’wcepf  rwcfu
iykpc.clrddhiciphcp.wcjrrgcygoykrwcwhigckhckprcud.erc.gwcp.wckphfvpkcyk
horxc.gwcwreywrwcghkckhcvh,cmhcYcm.ywckhc smrdlcip.k’mckprc .kkrxciykp
vhygvckprxrcygmkr.wchlcpy nc.cvygzce.ddrwc eKhwwckpymci.m,c.cuhrk,c.gw
ghgrchlckprclhdzmcp.wcrorxcmrkcrsrmchgcpy ,crqerukckprchdwc .g,ciph’m
khhcmphxk-myvpkrwckhcmrrc.gshgr,cmhcncncn”

 ymmcUr.orscygkrxxfukrwn

“Shfcwhg’kc r.gckhckrddc r,cRwcEhhkrm,ckp.kcshfckphfvpkcshfcehfdwcvrk
ygkhckprce.mkdrcjscuxrkrgwygvckhcjrcX.dmkhgc eKhww?”

“MfxrcYcwywncIpscghk?cYkcwywg’kcmrr cdyzrckprxrci.mc.gskpygvckhcykn
.ceygep,ckp.k’mcip.kcykcdhhzrwcdyzrnc.gwckprclyxmkcvfscYc rrkcygckpr
thygkcymc.c fkkciphczghimckpymc eKhwwcirddncIrcp.wc.cehfudrchlcihxwm,
.gwcYcjr.kcykncYczghiciprgcY’ cghkci.gkrwn”

“Jfk,cRw!cRw!cIp.kcwhcshfc r.g?cX.dmkhgc eKhwwcymc.kckprce.mkdrcghi,
kpymcorxsc h rgkn”

“Phi’mckp.k?”

“MfxrncJrrgckprxrcehfud.cw.smc.gwc hxrncDhgv,ckpygcjyxwciykpc.g
rsrvd.mmn”

 xncEhhkrm’mc ygwci.mcygc.cipyxdncPrcehfdwc .zrcghkpygvchlckpymc .kkrxn

“Ghkpygvcdyzrcyk!c eKhww’mcghkcmhcw.xgrwck.ddchxcmhckpyg,cylcykceh rm
khckp.knc.gwcprcwywg’kcir.xcghcrsrvd.mmc.ddckprcky rcYci.mciykpcpy n
Kpymcncncn”cPrcjxhzrchllcmp.xudsnc“ scvhmp!cYcihgwrx!”cprcexyrwnc“Dya!
Phic .gsc rgc.xrckprxrcygckprcthygkcxyvpkcghi?”

“HgdsclhfxcjrmywrmcDhxwcR mihxkpncKprxr’mc.cjyvcu.xksceh ygvcwhigclhx
kprcEhfgkscJ.dd,cjfkckp.k’mc.ddckprxrcymc.kcuxrmrgkncKprxr’mcDhxw
R mihxkp’mcmhg,cLxrwwyrcncncn”

“Ip.kcwhrmcprcdhhzcdyzr?”

“Mhxkchlc.cwfwrciykpcjdhgwcp.yxcmdyezrwcj.ezncKprgckprxr’mc xncZrrjdrn
Pr’mcmphxkciykpc.cxrwcl.ern”

“.gw?”

“.gwcJ.qkrxncPr’mcDhxwcR mihxkp’mcmrexrk.xsncIr.xmcmurek.edrmn”

“.gwckp.k’mckprcdhk?”

“Kp.k’mc.ddckprxrcym,cghkcehfgkygvckpymcprxrc eKhwwc.gwckprcprdun”

 xncEhhkrmcjxhfvpkcpymcp.gwcwhigciykpc.cxrmhfgwygvcxruhxkchgcpymcdrvn
Kprc ydwdscudr.m.gkcdhhzcipyepcp.wcjrrgc.clr.kfxrchlcpymc.uur.x.ger
wfxygvcpymcygkrxoyriciykpcUm ykpcp.wco.gymprwcghi,cykmcud.erck.zrgcjs
hgrchlc.gcrqkxr rdscmygymkrxc .drohdrgern

“.gwcYcdrkcpy cmphhc rchfkc.mcylcYci.mc.cmkx.scufu!”cprc fkkrxrw
kpxhfvpcedrgeprwckrrkpnc“Hlc.ddckprcjfgzcv. rm!”

“Ip.kc_.xr_cshfck.dzygvc.jhfk,cRw?”

“.gwcYckp.gzrwcpy !c_Kp.gzrw_cpy !”c h.grwcRwi.xwcEhhkrm,cixykpygvc.k
kprc r hxsnc“Yckp.gzrwcpy clhxcdrkkygvc rcvh!”

“RwwyrcEhhkrm,cip.krorxc.xrcshfcncncnc?”

“Dymkrg,cDyan”c xncEhhkrmc .mkrxrwcpymcr hkyhgciykpc.cmkxhgvcrllhxknc“Y
jdricygkhckp.kcthygkc.gwc rkckpymclrddhiciykpckprcrsrvd.mm,c.gwcprckhdw
 rcprczgric eKhwwcirddc.gwckp.kcYci.mg’kcpy nc.gw,clxh cip.kcshfckrdd
 r,ckpymc fmkcjrckprcorxscvfsckp.k’mcu.mmygvcpy mrdlchllc.mc eKhww!
Whg’kcshfcmrr?cKpymcj.jsc fmkcp.orcmk.xkrwcihxzygvchgckprcm. rcdygrm
YcwywncVhkckhczghic eKhww,clhfgwcprci.mg’kceh ygvckhckprce.mkdr,c.gw
e. rcwhigcygmkr.wchlcpy ,cm. rc.mc rncHgdscprcvhkckprxrclyxmk,cw. g
py !cIhfdwg’kckp.kcvyorcshfc.cu.ygcygckprcgrez!”

. .ar rgkcprdwc ymmcUr.orscwf jclhxc.gcygmk.gkncKprgcmprcmuhzrn

“Kprcjyvcmkyll!”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsn

 xncEhhkrm,cxrv.xwdrmmchlc.cd.ws’mcuxrmrger,cirgkcrorgclfxkprxcygcpym
ergmfxrn

“Ycp.wc.clrrdygvclxh ckprclyxmkckp.kckprxrci.mcmh rkpygvcghkchgckpr
drordc.jhfkckp.kcvfs!”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsnc“Vrr!cPrc fmkcjrc.lkrxckp.k
grezd.erckhhn”

“Mfxrcpr’mc.lkrxckprcgrezd.er,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmcy u.kyrgkdsnc“Ip.kcwyw
shfckpygzcpr’wceh rcwhigclhx?c.cep.gvrchlc.yx?”

“Jfk,cRw!cM.s!c.xrcshfcvhygvckhcdrkcpy cvrkc.i.sciykpcyk?”

“. c_Y_cvhygvckhcdrkcpy cvrkc.i.sciykpcyk!”cm.ywc xncEhhkrm,c.gghsrwcjs
kprclhhdympcbfrmkyhgnc“I.zrc rcfucygckprcgyvpkc.gwc.mzc r!”

“Jfkcip.kc.xrcshfcvhygvckhcwh?”

“Wh!”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmnc“Wh!cY’ddckrddcshfcip.kcY’ cvhygvckhcncncn”cPr
u.fmrw,c.gwckprcmkrxgcxrmhdorckp.kcmphgrcygcpymcl.ercmrr rwckhcldyezrxn
“M.s,cip.kckprcprddc_. _cYcvhygvckhcwh?”cprcirgkchgcmh rip.kcir.zdsn

“Shfcihg’kcvrkc.gskpygvcjscufkkygvckprclhdzmciymrckp.kcpr’mc.cl.zrn
Kp.kcihfdwcjrckprclygympchlcpy ,cjfkcykcihfdwg’kcvrkc_shf_c.gsiprxrn”

“Gh,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmn

“I.ykc.c ygfkrcipydrcYckpygz,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsn

Kprxrci.mc.cu.fmrnc ymmcUr.orscm.kciykpczgykcjxhimn

“Phicihfdwcykcjrcncncnc?”corgkfxrwc xncEhhkrmn

“Eprrmrcyk!”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsn

 xncEhhkrmceprrmrwcykncKprc ygfkrmckyezrwchgn

“Y’orcvhkcyk,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsnc“Kpymcvfs’mc.er-pyvpciykpcD.ws
Ehgmk.gerncShf’orcvhkckhcvrkcpy c.dhgrcxyvpkc.i.sc.gwckrddcpy cpr’mcvhk
khcvrkcshfcygoykrwckhckprcud.erc.mc.clxyrgwchlcpymn”

“Yczgricshf’wckpygzchlcmh rkpygv,cDya,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrm,c.d hmkcpf jdsn
“Shfc.di.smcirxrc.cihgwrxcdyzrckp.kncPhic. cYckhcvrkcpy c.dhgr?”

“Yce.gclyqckp.kncY’ddc.mzcpy ckhceh rclhxc.cmkxhddciykpc rncPr’mcghk
ip.kcshf’wce.ddcex.asc.jhfkc r,cjfkcprce.g’kcorxscirddcwfezcylcYczrru
.lkrxcpy ncIr’ddcvhcwhigckprcwxyorncShf’ddcjrcygckprcjfmprm--Y’ddcmphi
shfckprcud.erncKprgcY’ddcmrgwcpy ckhclrkepc rc.cix.uchxcmh rkpygv,c.gw
ipydrcYci.dzchgcpr’ddceh rcj.ezcu.mkciprxrcshf’xrcpywygv,c.gwcshfctf u
hfkc.kcpy n”

“Dya,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrm,cdhmkcygc.w yx.kyhg,c“iprgcykceh rmckhcwhuygv
hfkc.cmepr r,cshf’xrckprcmg.zr’mcrsrjxhim!”

“Jfkcip.kc.xrcshfcvhygvckhcwhcylcprctfmkckfxgmcshfcwhig?”

 xncEhhkrmcfkkrxrwc.cjdr.zcd.fvp,c.gwclxh ckprcxrermmrmchlcpymcehmkf r
uxhwferwc.cgr.kcdykkdrcxrohdorxn

“_Pr_cihg’kckfxgc rcwhig!”cprcm.ywn


§c5

“L.ges!”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsnc“YlcYcp.wcghkcp.wc.cpr.w.eprc.gwceh rcj.ez
r.xds,circmphfdwcgrorxcp.orcp.wckpymcdykkdrcep.k!”

Mprcv.arwcfuc.kcUm ykpcygcprxcvrgkdr,ciymklfdci.sc.mckprscmk.xkrw
khvrkprxcwhigckprcjxh.wcvx.ordcwxyornc.cky yw,cmhfdlfdcdykkdrckpygvcmpr
dhhzrwn

“Gh,”cm.ywcUm ykpn

Ykci.mcghkc.cvfmpygvcxruds,cjfkcprci.mcghkclrrdygvc.kcpymcmfggyrmkn
Kprcywr.ckp.kc ymmcUr.orsc yvpkcxrkfxgclxh cJxywvrlhxwcygc.wo.gerchl
kprc .ygcjhwscp.wcghkcheefxxrwckhcpy nc.mcprcihfdwcp.orcm.ywcpy mrdl,
prcp.wcehglfmrwckprcFgdyzrdsciykpckprcY uhmmyjdrnc.gwckprcxrmfdkcp.w
jrrgckp.kcmprcp.wce.fvpkcpy cjrshgwcphurchlcxrkxr.kc.mcprcm.kcygcpym
v.xwrg-ep.yxc.gwckphfvpkchlcRorcP.ddyw.s,ciphchgckpryxcxrkfxgclxh ckpr
d.zrcp.wcjrrgcmryarwciykpc.clxrmpcmu.m chlcehgmeyrgerc.gwcp.wcvhgrcj.ez
khckprcdyjx.xsckhcufkcygc.ghkprxcphfx’mcihxzcjrlhxrcwyggrxncKhcwredygr
 ymmcUr.ors’mcygoyk.kyhgckhc.eeh u.gscprxcwhigckprcwxyorcygchxwrxckh
mrrcylckprxrcirxrc.gscmyvgmchlckphmrciphcp.wcjrrgcwhygvcphghfxckhckpr
d.krcP.xkdrscXrwwymp,c nUn,cp.wcjrrgchfkchlckprcbfrmkyhgncJfkcUm ykp,
kphfvpcprcirgk,cirgkciykphfkcudr.mfxrncRorxsc h rgkcprcmurgkcygcprx
mheyrksckrgwrwckhcehglyx cpy c hxrc.gwc hxrcygckprchuygyhgckp.kc ymm
Ur.orsci.mckprcefxmrchlckprcmureyrmn

“.gwcYcp.orcjrrgcmhcdhgvygv,”cehgkygfrwcpymceh u.gyhg,c“khcp.orc.cgyer,
dhgvck.dznc.ddckprmrcw.smcYcp.orclrdkckp.kcYcp.org’kcjrrgc.jdrckhcvrk
.mc_gr.x_cshfc.mcYcmphfdwciympn”

“Irdd,chlcehfxmr,ciykpckprchkprxmc.di.smc.jhfkcncncn”

“Yc r.gkcygc.cmuyxykf.dcmrgmr,chlcehfxmrn”

“Ycmrrn”

“Yci.gkrwcmhc fepckhcwymefmmcshfxcihgwrxlfdcuhrkxsciykpcshfncShf
p.org’kcmhc fepc.mc_ rgkyhgrw_cshfxcihxzcmygercshfce. rcprxrnc_P.or_
shf!”

“.p,cjfk,cshfcmrr,cYc. ckxsygvckhczrruc sc ygwchllcykn”

“Xr.dds?cIps?”

“ sc rwye.dc.woymrxci.xgrwc rckp.kcYcp.wcjrrgcehgergkx.kygvc.ckxyldr
khhc fepncPrchllrxrwc rckprcephyer,cygcl.ek,cjrkirrgc.ceh udrkrcxrmk
.gwckprcdhhgs-jygn”

“Kprc_ip.k_,c xnc eKhww?”

“Kprcdfg.kyec.msdf ,cprc r.gkncKprmrc rwye.dc rgcrquxrmmckpr mrdorm
hwwdsn”

“Jfkcmfxrds,ckprg,cshfchfvpkcghkckhc_wxr. _chlckxsygvckhceh uhmrcylcyk
ymc.mcj.wc.mckp.k?c.gwcshfckhdwcDhxwcR mihxkpckp.kcshfciymprwckhcmk.s
.kcph rckpymc.lkrxghhgckhcixykrc.cuhr n”

Prxcvd.gercmphirwcghkpygvcjfkckrgwrxcmhdyeykfwr,cjfkcygi.xwdsc ymm
Ur.orsci.mckrddygvcprxmrdlckp.kc_kp.k_cihfdwcphdwcpy clhxc.ipydrn

“Kxfr,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“kxfrncJfkcshfczghicip.kc.xkcymnc.gcygrqhx.jdr
 ymkxrmmncKprcygmuyx.kyhgce. r,c.gwcYclrdkckp.kcYc fmkck.zrckprcxymzn
Jfkcykcp.mcdrlkc rcir.z,cir.zn”

“ShfcJYVcMKYLL!”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsncJfkcghkc.dhfwn

Kprsci.dzrwchgc.clricmkrumn

“Ygcl.ek,”cm.ywcUm ykp,ciykpc.ghkprxcygmuyx.kyhg,c“Y’ cghkcmfxrcYchfvpk
ghkckhcjrcvhygvcj.ezc.gwcxrmkygvcghin”

 ymmcUr.orscrsrwc.cedf uchlcjfmprmcmh rcwhargcs.xwmcl.xkprxcwhigckpr
wxyorncKprscirxrcbfyorxygvcmdyvpkds,c.mckphfvpckprscmprdkrxrwcmh r
.dyrgcjhws;c.gwc ymmcUr.ors,ciphmrckr urxci.mc.ukckhcjrcy u.kyrgk,
xrvymkrxrwc.cxrmhdorckhckrddcRwi.xwcEhhkrmckp.k,cylcprcehfdwg’kcpywr
jrpygwc.cjfmpciykphfkcw.geygvc.jhfkcdyzrc.ce.kchgcphkcjxyezm,cprcp.w
jrkkrxcvyorcfucpymcuxhlrmmyhgc.gwck.zrckhcmrddygvctrddyrwcrrdmncYg
ipyep,cykc .scjrc rgkyhgrw,cmprcixhgvrwcprxchdwclxyrgwncPrcp.wcjrrgc.m
mkyddc.mc.cmk.kfrcfgkydc.c h rgkcjrlhxr,ciprgc.cd.xvrc.gwcrqeyk.jdr
jrrkdrcp.wcl.ddrgcwhigckprcmu.ercjrkirrgcpymcehdd.xc.gwcpymcgrez,c.g
rqurxyrgercipyepc yvpkcirddcp.orckxyrwckprcmfjkdrmkcihhwm .gn

“Hp,cudr.mrcwhg’kcvhcygcsrk,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsnc“Ykcymcmfepc.cdhords
rorgygvncP.xzckhckprc fmyechlckprcjxrrarcygckprckxrr-khumncMhcmhhkpygvn
Dyzrc.cl.x-.i.scp.xuncYcihgwrxcylcykcymcipymurxygvcmrexrkmckhckpr
jyxwmn”

Um ykpclhxjhxrckhclhddhicprxcygkhckpymcxrvyhgchlcmurefd.kyhg,c.gwckprs
i.dzrwcu.mkckprcjfmprmcygcmydrgern

Mh rcdykkdrcwymk.gercl.xkprxchg,cphirorx,c ymmcUr.orscmrr rwckhcxrdrgkn

“Shfc_.xr_cdhhzygvckyxrw,c xnc eKhww,”cmprcm.ywc.gqyhfmdsnc“Yc. c.lx.yw
shfcxr.ddscp.orcjrrgchorxk.qygvcshfxcmkxrgvkpncUrxp.umc.lkrxc.ddcshf
p.wcjrkkrxcvhcj.ezc.gwcdyrcwhign”

“Shfckpygzcmh?”

“Yc. cmfxrchlcykncYciyddctfmkcmkxhddchgckhckprcv.krmc.gwcmrrcylckprce.x
ymcygcmyvpkn”

“Yclrrdckp.kcYc. cwrmrxkygvcshfn”

“Hp,cudr.mr!”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orscwruxre.kygvdsn

Iykpcmh rkpygvchlckprclrrdygvmchlc.cdhgv-mrgkrgercehgoyekcfgrqurekrwds
xrdr.mrwcy  rwy.krdschgcpymc.xxyo.dcygct.yd,cUm ykpcxrkx.erwcpymcmkrumn
Vd.geygvchorxcpymcmphfdwrx,cprcm.ickp.kc ymmcUr.orscp.wcwym.uur.xrw
xhfgwc.cjrgwcygckprcwxyor;c.gwcprcu.fmrwckhcdyvpkc.ceyv.xrkkrncPrcp.w
tfmkckpxhigc.i.sckprc .kepc.gwci.mci.dzygvchg,cirddcehgkrgkciykpcdylr,
iprgc.cohyercjrpygwcpy cm.ywc“Prs!”c.gwckprcirdd-xr r jrxrwclhx chlc xn
Rwi.xwcEhhkrmcmkruurwchfkchlckprcjfmprmn

“Mrrckpym?”cm.ywc xncEhhkrm,crqpyjykygvcpymcxrohdorxn

“Ycwhcygwrrw,cEh x.wrcEhhkrm,”cxrudyrwcUm ykpnc“.gw,cylcykcymcghkc.g
fgky rdscbfrmkyhg,cip.kcymckprcywr.?”

“Kp.k,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrm,c“ymctfmkcygce.mrcshfckxsc.gsclfggscjfmygrmmn”
.gw,cxrud.eygvckprcir.uhgcygc.cp.gwscuhezrk,cprcuxherrwrwckhcmd.u
oyvhxhfmdsc.kckprcxrvyhgcjrkirrgcpymcmphfdwrxcjd.wrmncPrc.dmhcixyvvdrw
iykpcghkc.cdykkdrc.gy .kyhgn

Um ykpci.keprwckprmrc .gœfoxrmcvx.ordsn

“Shfcwywcghkcmkhuc rc.kckprcuymkhd’mcuhygkc rxrdsckhci.kepcshfcvh
kpxhfvpcshfxcMirwympcrqrxeymrm?”cprcm.ywn

 xncEhhkrmcu.fmrwclhxc.gcygmk.gkn

“Vhkc.cjrrkdrchxcmh rkpygvcwhigc scj.ez,”cprcrqud.ygrwcefxkdsn

“.p?cKprg,c.mcshfciyddcg.kfx.ddsciympckhcjrc.dhgrcygcmfepc.cm.wc h rgk,
Yciyddcjrcjywwygvcshfc.cehxwy.dcvhhwcrorgygvc.gwcmkxhddygvchgn”

“Gh,cshfcwhg’k!”

“Whg’kcY?”cm.ywcUm ykpcxrmyvgrwdsnc“Urxp.umcshfc.xrcxyvpk,curxp.umcshf
.xrcxyvpkn”c xncEhhkrmcxrud.erwckprcxrohdorxchgerc hxrnc“Yck.zrcyk,
kprg,cEh x.wrcEhhkrm,ckp.kcshfcihfdwcp.orcmurrepciykpc rncE.xxschg,chdw
lxyrgw,c.gwcvrkcykchllcshfxcwy.upx.v ncIp.kcmrr mckhcjrchgcshfxc ygw?”

.cdfezscjdhic.uur.xrwckhcp.orcmkfggrwc xncEhhkrm’mcjrrkdr,c.gwcprci.m
.jdrckhcvyorcpymclfddc.kkrgkyhgckhckprc .kkrxcygcp.gwncPrcmk.xrwc.k
Um ykpciykpcehgmywrx.jdrcwymk.mkrn

“Y’ chgckhcshf,cJydd!”cprcm.ywn

“ scg. rcymcghkcJydd,”cm.ywcUm ykpn

“Gh,”cmg.uurwc xncEhhkrm,cpymc.gghs.gercjsckpymcky rcorxsc .gylrmkn
“.gwcyk’mcghkc eKhwwn”

Um ykpcdhhzrwc.kcpymceh u.gyhgckphfvpklfddsncKpymci.mc.gcfglhxrmrrg
eh udye.kyhg,c.gwclhxckprc h rgkcprcihfdwcxr.wydscp.orc.w ykkrwckp.kcpr
m.icghci.schlchorxeh ygvcykncKp.kckprchkprxci.mcygcghcvrgy.dclx. rchl
 ygwckhi.xwmcpy ckprcrquxrmmyhgchgcpymcl.ercihfdwcp.orcmphirw,crorgcyl
pymc.ekyhgmcp.wcghkcjrrgcmfllyeyrgkcygwye.kyhgchlckprcl.eknc xncEhhkrm,
p.oygvcwymuhmrwchlcpymcjrrkdrc.gwcjrygvcghic.kcdrymfxrckhcehgergkx.kr
pymciphdrc.kkrgkyhgchgcUm ykp,ci.mcrsrygvckp.kcy  .efd.krcshfgvc .g
iykpc.cwymdyzrcipyepcprcwywcghkc.kkr ukckhcehger.dn

“Mp.ddcircjrcmkxhddygvchg?”cmfvvrmkrwcUm ykpnc“I.dzygvc .sc.mmymk
kphfvpknc.kckprc h rgkcYc. clxrrckhcehglrmmckp.kcshfcp.orchurgrwcfu
.cmfjtrekcipyepce.fmrmc rcmh rcurxudrqyksncYckpygz,cEh x.wrcEhhkrm,
p.oygvcvyorgckprcuhmykyhgchlc.ll.yxmc.ce.xrlfdcrq. yg.kyhg,ckp.kcirc .s
m.sckp.kckprcgrqkc horcymciykpcshfncIp.kcwhcshfcuxhuhmrckhcwhc.jhfkcyk?”

“Y’wcdyzr,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmciykpc.murxyks,c“khcjr.kcshfxcjdhezchlln”

“GhcwhfjkncJfkcncncn”

“Y’wcdyzrckhczghezcshfclhxc.cvh.d!”

Um ykpcwymehfx.vrwckprmrcFkhuy.gcwxr. mciykpc.cwruxre.kygvci.orchlckpr
p.gwn

“Yce.gcxr.wydscfgwrxmk.gwcyk,”cprcm.ywcehfxkrhfmdsnc“Jfk,ckhczrru
iykpygckprcmuprxrchlcux.ekye.dcuhdykyem,cip.kcymckprc.ekf.dc horcipyep
shfcehgkr ud.kr?cShfcehfdwcrquhmrc r,cghcwhfjk,ckhc scphmk,cjfkcY
e.gghkcmrrcphickp.kcihfdwcuxhlykcshfn”

“Yczghickp.kncJfkcshfce.gcxr r jrxcY’orcvhkckp.kcfuc scmdrrorcygce.mr
shfckxsc.gsclfggscjfmygrmmn”

“Shfcurxmymkcygcp.xuygvchgckp.kcuhmmyjydyks,cEh x.wrcEhhkrmncKprcywr.
mrr mckhcjrc.gchjmrmmyhgciykpcshfncYce.gc.mmfxrcshfckp.kcYcehgkr ud.kr
ghcmfepckpygvncIp.k,ckhcxrkfxgckhckprcuhygk,cwhcshfcygkrgwckhcwh?”

Kprscp.wcxr.eprwckprcjxh.wcrqu.gmrchuuhmykrckprclxhgkcwhhx,ciprxrckpr
wxyor,clxh cjrygvc.cxyorx,cmuxr.wchfkcygkhc.cd.zrchlcvx.ordncUm ykp
mkhuurwn

“Shf’orcvhkckhcvrkc rcygkhckpymcthygk,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmn

“Yclr.xrwckp.kckp.kci.mcip.kcshfcirxrc.jhfkckhcmfvvrmkncYgc scurefdy.x
uhmykyhgcYcp.orcg.kfx.ddscghcephyercjfkckhcrgwr.ohfxckhce.xxschfkcshfx
iymprmnc.gsc.kkr ukcghkckhcwhcmhcihfdw,cYcy .vygr,cygl.ddyjdscmkxyzrcmh
zrrgc.cexykyec.mcshfxmrdlc.mc‘lfggscjfmygrmmn’cJfkcphice.gcYcvrkcshf
ygkhcip.kcshfcjxrraydscwrmexyjrc.mc‘kpymcthygk’?”

“Shfce.gcm.scY’ c.clxyrgwchlcshfxmc.gwc.mzckpr ckhcygoykrc rn”

Um ykpcmphhzcpymcpr.wcvrgkdsn

“Ghkchgrchlcshfxcjxyvpkrmkcmfvvrmkyhgm,cEh x.wrcEhhkrmncK.eklfdds
xrlx.ygygvclxh cmkxrmmygvckprcuhygkckp.kc.gcygmk.gkcdhirxygvchlc s
uxrmkyvrcihfdwcygroyk.jdscrgmfrcmphfdwcykcjrcmfuuhmrwckp.kcshfcirxrc.
lxyrgwchlc ygr,cYciyddc rxrdsc rgkyhgckp.k,cjrygvc smrdlc rxrdsc.cvfrmk
ygckpymcmk.krdscph rchlcRgvd.gw,cYce.gcp.xwdscvhc.jhfkcygoykygvc s
epf mcprxrclhxcygwrlygykrcoymykmncGh,circ fmkclygwc.ghkprxci.sncncncn
Shf’xrcmfxrcshfci.gkckhcmk.s?cBfykrcmh,cbfykrcmh,cYc rxrdsc.mzrwncncncn
Ghi,cdrkcfmckpygzn”

Kpxhfvpckprcjrdkchlcxphwhwrgwxhgmcipyepctfkkrwchfkclxh chgrcmywrchlckpr
e.mkdrc.cuhxkdsclhx c.kckpymcuhygkc .wrcykmrdlcoymyjdr,c hoygvcpyvpc.gw
wymuhmrwdscygckprcwyxrekyhgchlckprcj.ezcuxr ymrmncYkci.mcJr.ep,ckpr
jfkdrx,cxrkfxgygvclxh ckprcudr.m.gkcx. jdrcygcipyepcprcp.wcygwfdvrw
py mrdlchgckprcwru.xkfxrchlcpymcr udhsrxc.gwckprcxrmkchlckprcu.xksn
Xroyorwcjscmh rcvx.eyhfmcphfxmcygckprchurgc.yx,cJr.epci.mcxrkfxgygvckh
wfksnc.gwciykpckprcmyvpkchlcpy ckprxrce. rckhcUm ykpc.cgr.kcmhdfkyhgchl
kprcuxhjdr cehglxhgkygvcpy n

“Hp,cJr.ep,”cprce.ddrwn

“Myx?”cxrmuhgwrwc.clxfykscohyerncKprxrci.mc.cjxyrlcu.fmrcipydrckpr
jfkdrxcg.oyv.krwcygkhckprchurgncPrcxr horwckprcmkx.icp.kcipyepcprcp.w
whggrwclhxcpymcrqefxmyhg,c.gwcrglhdwrwcUm ykpcygc.cuhu-rsrwcjfkcghk
fgzygwdscv.arnc.ckphfvpklfdcexykyechlcehfgkxs-phfmrcpf .gyks,cprcp.w
dhgvcmygercwreywrwckp.kcprc.uuxhorwchlcUm ykpncMygercD.wscEhgmk.gercp.w
lyxmkcjrvfgckhchllrxckprcphmuyk.dykschlckprce.mkdrckhckprcdykrx.xsc.gw
.xkymkyecihxdw,cprcp.wcjrrgcuxhlhfgwdscmphezrwcjscmh rchlckprcx.xrc.gw
efxyhfmcmurey rgmciphcp.wcghwwrwckpryxcwymhxwrxrwcdhezmc.gwcld.fgkrw
kpryxcydd-efkcrorgygvcedhkprmc.kckprcwyggrx-k.jdrchorxcipyepcpr
uxrmywrw;c.gwcUm ykpcp.wceh rc.mc.cudr.m.gkcmfxuxymrn

“Mhxxsckhckxhfjdrcshf,cJr.epn”

“Ghkc.kc.dd,cmyxn”

“Kpym,”cm.ywcUm ykp,cygwye.kygvc xncEhhkrm,ciphci.mcoyriygvckprcmergr
iykpc.ci.xsc.gwcmfmuyeyhfmcrsr,c.gcrsrchjoyhfmdsc.drxkclhxc.gscmyvgm
hlclfggscjfmygrmm,c“ymc sc .gnc sco.drk,cshfczghincPrcp.mctfmkc.xxyorw
lxh ckhigncYcp.wckhcdr.orcpy cjrpygwckhc.kkrgwckprcjrwmywrchlc.cmyez
.fgkncShfxc.fgkci.mcjrkkrxciprgcshfce. rc.i.s,cEhhkrm?”cprcygbfyxrw
vx.eyhfmdsn

 xncEhhkrmcehxxrekdscygkrxuxrkrwckpymcbfrmkyhgc.mc.clrrdrxciykpcxrv.xw
khcpymcoyrimchgckpymcgricwrordhu rgk,c.gwcwreywrwckhc.eerukckpr
mykf.kyhgncKxfr,cprcp.wcphurwckhcrgkrxckprce.mkdrcygc.cmdyvpkdscpyvprx
e.u.eyksckp.gckp.kchlc.cvrgkdr .g’mcurxmhg.dcvrgkdr .g,cjfkcprci.mc.g
hdwce. u.yvgrxncHgercyg,c.mcprcufkcykckhcpy mrdlciykpc.w yx.jdrceh  hg
mrgmr,cprcihfdwcjrcygn

“Srm,cmyx,”cprcxrudyrwn

“E.uyk.d,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“E.uyk.dncKprgciyddcshfcdhhzc.lkrxcEhhkrm,
Jr.epn”

“Orxscvhhw,cmyx,”cm.ywckprcjfkdrxcygc.cohyerchlcehxwy.dc.uuxho.dncKpr
hgdscuhygkcprcp.wclhfgwckhce.oydc.kcygcUm ykpcp.wcjrrgcxr horw;clhxcyk
p.wcpykprxkhcu.ygrwcpy c.cdykkdrckp.kc.cvrgkdr .gciykpcmhcgyerc.ck.mkr
ygcedhkprmc.mckp.kcwyvgylyrwcvfrmkcmphfdwcp.orcr j.xzrwchgc.coymykckh
mfepc.cud.erc.mcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdrciykphfkc.curxmhg.dc.kkrgw.gkncGhi
.ddci.mcrqud.ygrwc.gw,c.mcl.xc.mcJr.epci.mcehgerxgrw,clhxvyorgncPr
uxherrwrwckhcrmehxkc xncEhhkrmckhckprcxr.xncKprscwym.uur.xrwcjrpygwckpr
xphwhwrgwxhgmn

Kprscp.wcp.xwdscvhgrciprgc.cmfwwrgckphfvpkce. rckhcUm ykpc.mcprcm.k
hgerc hxrcygckprcehhdgrmmchlckprcp.ddncPrcuxrmmrwckprcjrddncMkx.gvr,
prcxrldrekrw,cphichgrchorxdhhzrwckprmrchjoyhfmckpygvmncKp.kci.mcphi
vrgrx.dmcdhmkcj.kkdrmn

“Myx?”cm.ywcJr.ep,c.uur.xygvckpxhfvpckprcvxrrgcj.yarcwhhxn

“Mhxxsckhckxhfjdrcshfc.v.yg,cJr.epn”

“Ghkc.kc.dd,cmyxn”

“Ycphurcshfciyddc .zrcEhhkrmceh lhxk.jdrncYckpygzcshfciyddcdyzrcpy n
Pym,ciprgcshfcvrkckhczghicpy ,cymc.corxsciyggygvcurxmhg.dyksn”

“Prcmrr mc.cgyercshfgvclrddhi,cmyxn”

“Hp,cjsckprci.s,cJr.epncShfc yvpkc.mzcpy cylcprcjxhfvpkc scxrohdorx
lxh ckhigciykpcpy n”

“Srm,cmyx,”cm.ywcJr.ep,ciphcihfdwcp.orcmehxgrwckhcjrkx.scr hkyhgcylcyk
p.wcjrrgc.cDriymcvfgn

“YckpygzcYcm.icykcmkyezygvchfkchlcpymcuhezrkncShfc yvpkcjxygvcykckhc r,
iyddcshf?”

“Orxscvhhw,cmyxn”

Jr.epcxrkyxrw,ckhcxrkfxgc.c h rgkcd.krxncHgckprcmydorxcm.dorxcipyepcpr
e.xxyrwckprcdrkp.dcir.uhgci.mcwfdscxruhmygvn

“Shfxcxrohdorx,cmyx,”cm.ywcJr.epn

“Kp.gzcshf,”cm.ywcUm ykpn


§c6

Lhxcmh rc h rgkmc.lkrxckprcjfkdrxcp.wciykpwx.igcygcpymcmk.krds
uyvrhg-khrwci.sckpxhfvpckprcvxrrgcj.yarcwhhx,cUm ykpcd.scj.ezcygcpym
ep.yxciykpckprclrrdygvckp.kcmh rkpygvc.kkr ukrw,cmh rkpygvcwhgr,cp.w
r.xgrwc.cgyvpk’mcxruhmrncPrci.mcghkcmhcm.gvfygrc.mckhcmfuuhmrckp.kcpr
p.wc.ekf.ddsceprez .krwc.gc.worxm.xschlc xncEhhkrm’mcmkxrgfhfmgrmm
jsckprcmy udrc.ekchlcxr hoygvc.cxrohdorxclxh cpymcuhmmrmmyhg;cjfk
kprxrci.mcghcwrgsygvckprcl.ekckp.kckprclrrdchlckprckpygvcygcpym
uhezrkcrgvrgwrxrwc.cerxk.ygcehmscm.kyml.ekyhgncKprcdykkdrcprcp.wcmrrg
hlc xncEhhkrmcp.wcjrrgcrghfvpckhcehgoygercpy ckp.kckprchkprxci.mc.
 .gciphci.mcl.xcjrkkrxchllciykphfkc.gc.fkh .kyecuymkhdncKprxrci.m
.gcy ufdmyorgrmmc.jhfkcpymcep.x.ekrxcipyepcwywcghkcvhcirddciykpckpr
uhmmrmmyhgchlclyxr-.x mn

Um ykp’mc rwyk.kyhgmcp.wck.zrgcpy ckpfmcl.xciprgckprscirxrcygkrxxfukrw
jsc.gcy urx.kyorcohyern

“Prs!”

HgdschgrcurxmhgchlcUm ykp’mc.ebf.ygk.gerci.mcygckprcp.jykchlchurgygv
pymcxr .xzmcygckpymc .ggrxncYkci.mcehgmrbfrgkdscghcmfxuxymrckhcpy ckh
lygwc xncRwi.xwcEhhkrmcmk.gwygvc.kcpymcrdjhin

“Prs!”

“.ddcxyvpk,cEh x.wrcEhhkrm,”cm.ywcUm ykpciykpc.ckhfepchlc.fmkrxyks,
“Ycpr.xwcshfckprclyxmkcky rnc.gwc .scYcxr ygwcshfckp.kckpymcp.jykchl
shfxmchlcuhuuygvchfkclxh cfgrqurekrwcud.ermc.gwcm.sygvc‘Prs!’cymchgr
ipyepcmphfdwcjrchorxeh rncO.drkmc.xrcmfuuhmrwckhci.ykckyddcxfgvclhxnc.k
dr.mk,cYckpygzcmhncYc fmkcehglrmmckp.kcfgkydckpymc h rgkcYcp.orcgrorx
p.wc.co.drkn”

“.gwcshfcihfdwg’kcp.orchgrcghicylcYcehfdwcprducyk,”cxrmuhgwrwc xn
Ehhkrmn

Um ykpcx.ymrwcpymcrsrjxhimn

“Ips,”cprcygbfyxrw,cmfxuxymrw,c“kpymcurroympgrmm?cWhg’kcshfcdyzrcjrygv
.co.drk?”

“Gh,cYcwhg’kn”

“Shfc.mkhgympc rncYcmphfdwcp.orckphfvpkcshfcihfdwcp.orcvhgrcmygvygv
.jhfkckprcphfmrncP.orcshfcehgmywrxrwckp.kckprckrg.geschlcmfepc.
uhmykyhgckpxhimcshfcygkhckprcehgmk.gkcmheyrkschlcEh x.wrcJr.ep,ckp.g
iph cykcihfdwcjrcwyllyefdkckhcy .vygrc.c hxrcwrdyvpklfdceh u.gyhg?”

“Hdwcmkyll!”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmcmhfxdsnc“Ylckprxr’mchgrckpygvckp.kc .zrm
 rckyxrw,cyk’mc.cvfsckp.kck.dzmc.jhfkcpymcw.xgrwcmkh .epc.ddckprcky rn”

“Ycjrvcshfxcu.xwhg?”

“KprcJr.epcvhhz,”crqud.ygrwc xncEhhkrm,c“p.mcvhkcmh rkpygvcixhgvciykp
kprcdygygvchlcpymcmkh .ep,c.gwcylcYcp.wg’kc .wrc scvrk.i.scpr’wcjr
k.dzygvc.jhfkcykcsrkn”

“Ylcshfcl.ydckhclygwcrgkrxk.yg rgkc.gwcfudylkcygclyxmk-p.gwcyglhx .kyhg
.jhfkcEh x.wrcJr.ep’mcmkh .ep,cshfc fmkcygwrrwcjrcp.xwckhcudr.mrncY
. ckhck.zrcyk,ckprg,ckp.kcshfce. rcmghxkygvchfkcprxr,cygkrxxfukygvc s
w.swxr. m,c rxrdscygchxwrxckhcmrrzc scms u.kps?”

 xncEhhkrmcv.arwcfuhgcpy ciykpc.cm hfdwrxygvcrsrn

“Yce. rckhckrddcshfcYcmfuuhmrcshfckpygzcshf’xrcw.xgrwcm .xkn”

“.gwcorxscgyerchlcshf,ckhh,”cm.ywcUm ykp,ckhfeprwnc“.cuxrkks
eh udy rgk,clhxcipyepcYc. cghkcfgvx.krlfdn”

“Shfcvhkckp.kcvfgc.i.sclxh c rc yvpkscm hhkpds,cwywg’kcshf?”

“Mygercshfc rgkyhgcyk,csrmn”

“.gwcghicYcmfuuhmrcshfckpygzcshf’xrcvhygvckhcmdyucygc.pr.wchlc rc.gw
vrkc.i.sciykpckp.kcgrezd.er?cIrdd,cm.s,cdymkrg,cdr  rckrddcshfcyk’dd
k.zrcmh rhgrcjrkkrxckp.gc.cp.dl-j.zrwcmkxygv-jr.gcdyzrcshfckhcufkchgr
horxchgc rn”

“Ycmrr ,”cm.ywcUm ykp,cu.ygrw,c“khcwrkrekc.cerxk.ygc.gy fmcexrruygv
ygkhcshfxckhgrncMfxrdscirce.gcjrckx.wrcxyo.dmciykphfkckpymcmuyxykchl
phmkydyksnc sc.kkykfwrckhi.xwmcshfcymchgrchlczygwdsckhdrx.gern”

“Rorgcylcshfcvrkcyk,ciprxrcwhcshfckpygzcshf’xrcvhygvckhcpywrcyk?c.gw,
jrdyrorc r,cyk’ddck.zrcmh rcpywygvncM.s,cdr  rckrddcshfcmh rkpygvn
Y’ cshfxco.drk,c.yg’kcY?cIrdd,ckprg,cYce.gceh rcygkhcshfxcxhh c.gw
jrckywsygvcfuciprgrorxcYcw.xgcudr.mr,ce.g’kcY?cMfxrcYce.gncY’ddckrdd
kprcihxdwcYce.gcwhctfmkckp.kcdykkdrckpygvnc.gwcshfck.zrcykclxh c r,
Jyddcncncn”

“Shfcurxmymkcygckprcwrdfmyhgckp.kc scg. rcymcIyddy. cncncn”

“Shfck.zrcykclxh c r,cJydd,ckp.kcylcrorxckp.kcgrezd.ercwym.uur.xmc.gw
ykcymg’kc rckp.k’mcwhgrckprcwym.uur.xygv,cshf’ddclygwc rckywsygvcfucyg
.ci.sckp.k’ddc .zrcshfcwyaasncY’ddcvhckpxhfvpckp.kcxhh chlcshfxmciykpc.
lygr-khhkpceh jncMhceprichgckp.k,ciyddcshf?”

.gwcRwi.xwcEhhkrm,c hoygvcmh jxrdsc.exhmmckprcp.dd,c .wrc.cmygymkrx
rqykncKprc hhwchlcehhdcxrldrekyhgci.mcmkyddckhceh r,ciprgcprcihfdw
xr.dymrckp.k,cygcpymcwrmyxrckhc.w ygymkrxcip.kcprcihfdwcp.orcwrmexyjrw
.mc.cphkchgr,cprcp.wc.ekrwc.cdykkdrcx.mpdscygcufkkygvcpymcrgr schg
pymcvf.xwnc.ddcprci.mckpygzygvcghici.mckp.kcpymcjxyrlcmzrkepchlckpr
uhmykyhgchlc.ll.yxmcihfdwcp.orckprcrllrekchlcwy ygympygvcUm ykp’m
eh ud.ergesc.ckxyldrncPrcp.w,cprcld.kkrxrwcpy mrdl,cmdyuurwchorx
mh rkpygvckp.kcehfdwcjrced.mmrwc.mc.cthdkn

Ghxci.mcprcfgtfmkylyrwcygckpymcoyrincKprc.murekchlckprc .kkrxchgcipyep
prcp.wckhfeprwci.mchgrckp.kcp.wcghkcuxroyhfmdscuxrmrgkrwcykmrdlckh
Um ykp:c.gw,c fmygvchgcykc.mcprcxrmrkkdrwcpy mrdlcygcpymcep.yx,cpr
ehfdwcmrrckp.kcykc.llhxwrwclhhwclhxckphfvpknc.mcxrv.xwrwckprcwymuhm.d
hlckprcgrezd.er,cmphfdwcykcrorxceh rcygkhcpymcuhmmrmmyhg,cprcp.wclhx rw
ghcwrlygykrcud.gncPrcp.wc.mmf rwckp.kcprcihfdwcehger.dcykcmh riprxr
fgkydckprclyxmkcrqeykr rgkchlckprcep.mrcmd.ezrgrw,c.gwcykci.mchgdscghi
kp.kcprcxr.dymrwckprcwyllyefdkschlclygwygvc.cmfyk.jdrcpywygv-ud.er
hfkmywrcpymcjrwxhh ncSrm,cykci.mcerxk.ygdsc.c .kkrxchgcipyep,c.mc xn
Ehhkrmcp.wcmfvvrmkrw,cprcihfdwcwhcirddckhceprincLhxckrgc ygfkrm,
.eehxwygvds,cprcwywcmhnc.gw--ykcjrygvcux.ekye.ddscy uhmmyjdrckhczrruc.
vhhwc .gcwhig--.kckprcrgwchlckp.kcurxyhwcprci.mcxri.xwrwciykpc.gcywr.n
Prcxhmrclxh cpymcep.yxc.gwcuxrmmrwckprcjrddn

“.p,cJr.ep,”cprcm.ywc.ll.jds,c.mckprcvxrrgcj.yarcwhhxcmifgvchurg,c“Y
 fmkc.uhdhvymrchgerc hxrclhxckxhfjdygvcshfncYczrrucxygvygv,cwhg’kcY?”

“Ghckxhfjdrc.kc.dd,cmyx,”cxrmuhgwrwckprcjfkdrxcu.krxg.ddsnc“Jfkcyl
shfcirxrcxygvygvckhcmf  hgcshfxcurxmhg.dc.kkrgw.gk,cYclr.xcprcymcghk
y  rwy.krdsc.o.yd.jdrncPrcdrlkc rcmh rip.kc.jxfukdsc.clric h rgkmc.vhn
Yci.mcghkc.i.xrckp.kcshfcihfdwcjrcxrbfyxygvcpymcmrxoyermcfgkydckpr
wxrmmygv-vhgvcmhfgwrw,chxcYcihfdwcp.orcwrk.ygrwcpy n”

“Grorxc ygwncYkci.mcshfcYciymprwckhcmrrncJr.ep,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“Yc. 
ehgerxgrwc.jhfkcshfncYcdr.xgclxh c sc .gckp.kckprcdygygvchlcshfx
mkh .epcymcghkc.ddcykcmphfdwcjrn”

“Kp.kcymckxfr,cmyx,”cxrudyrwcJr.ep,c.gcrqeykrwcvdr. ceh ygvcygkhcpym
wfddcrsrmncPrcmpyorxrwcmdyvpkds,c.mc yvpkc.ci.x-phxmrc.kckprcmhfgwchl
kprcjfvdrnc“Ycwhcp.orckxhfjdrciykpckprcdygygvchlc scmkh .epn”

“Rorxscmkh .epcp.mc.cmydorxcdygygvn”

“Myx?”

“Ycm.yw,ckrddc rc.ddc.jhfkcykn”

“Irdd,cxr.dds,cmyxcncncn”cm.ywcJr.epciymklfddsn

“Khcudr.mrc r,”cfxvrwcUm ykpn

“Irdd,cmyx,cykcymcrqkxr rdsczygwchlcshfckhck.zrc.gcygkrxrmkncYk
vrgrx.ddscmk.xkmciykpc.cwfddcmphhkygvcu.ygchgckprcxyvpkcmywrchlckpr
.jwh rgclxh ckirgksc ygfkrmckhcp.dlc.gcphfxc.lkrxckprcehgedfmyhgchlc.
 r.dncKprcms ukh mcncncn”

Kprxrci.mcghkpygvcjfkcehfxkrhfmcms u.kpscygcUm ykp’mcv.arc.mcpr
dymkrgrwckhcip.kcmhfgwrwcdyzrc.gcrsriykgrmm’mc.eehfgkchlckprcM.g
Lx.geymehcr.xkpbf.zr,cjfkcygi.xwdscprci.mciympygvckp.kcpymceh u.gyhg
ehfdwcmrrcpymci.sckhc .zygvcykc.cjykcjxyrlrxc.gwcmg.uuyrxncPhirorx,c.dd
kpygvmceh rckhc.gcrgwncRorgckprcir.xyrmkcxyorxciygwmcmh riprxrckhckpr
mr.ncIykpc.c hoygvcurxyhw,ckprcjfkdrxclyg.ddscehgedfwrwcpymcg.xx.kyorn

“U.xzm’cUrumygygr,”cm.ywcUm ykpcuxh ukdsn

“Myx?”

“Kp.k’mcip.kcshfci.gkncU.xzm’cUrumygygrncYkcihfdwcmrkcshfcxyvpkcygcgh
ky rn”

“Yciyddc .zrc.cghkrchlckprcg. r,cmyxncKprcmureylyecp.mcghkceh rckhc s
ghkyercfgkydcghinc.gw,cylcYc .scm.scmh,”c.wwrwcJr.ep,ciykpc.cvd.mmscjfk
.whxygvcdhhzc.kcpymcjrgrl.ekhx,c“Ycmphfdwcdyzrckhcrquxrmmc scvx.kykfwr
lhxcshfxczygwgrmmn”

“Ghkc.kc.dd,cJr.ep,cghkc.kc.ddncHp,cJr.ep,”cprcm.yw,c.mckprchkprx
mk.xkrwckhc .gœfoxrckhi.xwmckprcwhhx,c“Y’orctfmkcxr r jrxrwncKprxrci.m
mh rkpygvcrdmrcYci.gkrwckhck.dzckhcshfc.jhfkn”

“Srm,cmyx?”

“Yckphfvpkcykc yvpkcjrc.mcirddckhcmur.zckhcshfc.jhfkcykcjrlhxr
.uuxh.epygvcD.wscEhgmk.gerncKprcl.ekcym,cJr.ep,cYc. clrrdygvcex. urwn”

“Ygwrrw,cmyx?cYclhxvhkckhc rgkyhgckp.kchgrchlckprcms ukh mclxh cipyepcY
mfllrxcymc.cmp.xucex. un”

“Khhcj.wncJfkcdrkcfm,cylcshfcwhcghkc ygw,cmprdorclhxckprc h rgkckpr
mfjtrekchlcshfxcygkrxyhxchxv.gym c.gwcykmc.yd rgkmncIprgcYcm.scYc. 
lrrdygvcex. urw,cYc r.gcmuyxykf.ddsncP.orcshfcrorxcixykkrgcuhrkxs,
Jr.ep?”

“Gh,cmyxn”

“.p!cKprgcykc .scjrc.cdykkdrcwyllyefdkclhxcshfckhcfgwrxmk.gwc s
lrrdygvmnc sckxhfjdrcymckpymncHfkcygcE.g.w.,cJr.ep,cYcvxric.eefmkh rw
khcwhygvc scihxzcygckprc hmkcmhdyk.xscmfxxhfgwygvmncShfcxr r jrxckp.k
u.mm.vrcygc sc_MhgvmchlcMbf.dhx_cipyepcjrvygmc‘.exhmmckprcu.drcu.x.jhd.
hlcThscncncn’?”

“Yclr.x,cmyxcncncn”

“Shfc ymmrwcyk?cKhfvpcdfezncKxsckhcvrkcphdwchlcykcmh rcky rncYk’mc.
jyxwncIrdd,ckp.kcu.mm.vrci.mcixykkrgcygc.cdhgrdscpfkchgckprcj.gzmchl
kprcM.mz.kepri.g,c ydrmc.i.sclxh cpf .gcp.jyk.kyhgncYc. cdyzrckp.k,
Jr.epncYcgrrwckprcmky fdfmchlckprcvxr.kchurgcmu.ermncIprgcYc. 
mfxxhfgwrwcjsc sclrddhim,cygmuyx.kyhgcmd.ezrgmc.gwcwyrmncShfczghicphi
ykcymciprgckprxrc.xrcurhudrc.jhfkncTfmkc.mcshfc.xrcmk.xkygvcygckhcixykr
.cgylks,cmh rhgrceh rmc.gwcmykmcwhigchgckprcwrmzc.gwcjrvygmck.dzygv
.jhfkcpy mrdlncRorxscky rcshfcvrkcvhygvcgyerds,cygcj.xvrmcmh rc.dyrg
ygldfrgerc.gwckprc fmrcvhrmcjdhhrsncShfcmrrcip.kcYc r.g?”

“Srm,cmyx,”cm.ywcJr.ep,cv.uygvcmdyvpkdsn

“Irdd,ckp.kcymcipsclhxc.c .gcdyzrc rcrqymkrgercygcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdr
p.mcykmcwx.ij.ezmncYcp.orcvhkckhcvrkc.cud.erciprxrcYce.gcjrc.dhgr,
Jr.ep--.dhgrciykpc scwxr. mc.gwcoymyhgmncMh rcdykkdrcrsxyrcurxeprw
hgckprcedyllmchlcKy rncncncncYgchkprxcihxwm,cwhcshfczghichlc.gcr uks
ehkk.vrcmh riprxrchgckprcrmk.krciprxrcYcehfdwcjrk.zrc smrdlciprgcygckpr
 hhwc.gwcmiygvc.cgyjciykphfkc.gscuhmmyjydykschlcjrygvcygkrxxfukrw?”

“.cdykkdrcehkk.vr,cmyx?”

“.cdykkdrcehkk.vrncIykpcphgrsmfezdrchorxckprcwhhx,c.gwcHdwc ymkrxc hhg
edy jygvcfuc.jhorckprckxrrmnc.cehkk.vr,cJr.ep,ciprxrcYce.gc rwyk.kr,
iprxrcYce.gckfxgckprczrscygckprcwhhxc.gwcjywckprcihxdwcvhcjsncGhickp.k
kprce.mkdrcymcvhygvckhcjrclfddchlc.ddckprmrcurhudrciphc.xrceh ygv
lhxckprcEhfgkscJ.dd,cykcymcy urx.kyorckp.kcYci.gvdrcmfepc.cp.orgn
Hkprxiymr,c.cehgmywrx.jdrcmd.jchlcuxyerdrmmcuhrkxsciyddcjrcdhmkckh
pf .gyksclhxcrorxn”

“Shfcwrmyxr,”cm.ywcJr.ep,clrrdygvcpymci.sce.fkyhfmds,c“.cm .ddcehkk.vr
iprxrcshfce.gcixykrcuhrkxs,cmyx?”

“Shfclhddhic rcdyzrc.cdrhu.xwncWhcshfczghichlcmfepc.chgr?”

“Kprxrcymc.gcfgheefuyrwcv. rzrrurx’mcehkk.vrcygckprcirmkcihhw,cmyx,cjfk
ykcymc.gcrqkxr rdscpf jdrcud.ern”

“Jrcykcgrorxcmhcpf jdr,cykciyddcwhclhxc rncWhcshfckpygzcD.wscEhgmk.ger
ihfdwcjrchllrgwrwcylcYcirxrckhc.mzclhxckprcdh.gchlcykclhxc.clricw.sm?”

“Ycl.gesckp.kcprxcd.wsmpyucihfdwcxreryorckprcxrbfrmkciykpcrbf.gy yks,
myxncMprcymcfmrwckhcncncncMprcymcghkcfg.eefmkh rwcncncncIrdd,cYce.g
hgdscm.s,cmyx,ckp.kckprxrci.mc.cdykrx.xscvrgkdr .gcoymykygvckprce.mkdr
d.mkcmf  rxciphcrquxrmmrwc.cwrmyxrckhck.zrcmfg-j.kpmcygckprcv.xwrgcr.ep
 hxgygvcjrlhxrcjxr.zl.mkncYgckprcghhw,cmyxnc.gw,cjrshgwcygmkxfekygvc r
khci.xgckprc .ywm,cprxcd.wsmpyucud.erwcghchjmk.edrcygckprci.schlckpr
lfdlyd rgkchlcpymciymprmncMhcncncn”

“Mhc.c hwrmkcxrbfrmkcdyzrc ygrcymg’kcdyzrdsckhce.fmrc.cpr.xk-.kk.ez?
.w yx.jdr!cShfcwhg’kczghicip.kcykc r.gmckhc rckhclrrdckp.kcYcmp.dd
mhhgcp.orc.cdykkdrcxrlfvrchlc schig,ckhcipyepcYce.gcxrkxr.kc.gwcjrcyg
mhdykfwrn”

“Yce.gcy .vygrckp.kcykc fmkcjrcrqkxr rdscvx.kylsygv,cmyxn”

“KprgcYciyddcufkckprc hkyhgcjrlhxrckprcJh.xwcwyxrekdscD.wscEhgmk.ger
xrkfxgmn”

“Orxscvhhw,cmyxn”

“Ycmphfdwcdyzrckhcmud.mpcykchgckprcxrehxwchgerc hxr,cJr.ep,ckp.kcYc. 
 fepchjdyvrwckhcshfclhxcshfxcms u.kpsc.gwc.woyercygckpymc .kkrxncYczgri
shfcihfdwcghkcl.ydc rn”

“Ghkc.kc.dd,cmyxncYc. chgdsckhhcvd.wckhcp.orcjrrgc.jdrckhcjrchl
.mmymk.gern”

“Hp,c.gw,cJr.epcncncn”

“Myx?”

“TfmkchgrchkprxckpygvncIyddcshfcjrcmrrygvcEhhkrm,c sco.drk,c.v.yg
mphxkds?”

“Bfykrcmphxkds,cmyx,cYcmphfdwcy .vygrn”

“Kprgcihfdwcshfc ygwctfmkcuxhwwygvcpy cm .xkdscygckprcdhirxcxyjmcncncn”

“Myx?”cexyrwcJr.ep,cmk.xkdrwchfkchlcpymcjfkdrxy.gce.d ncPrcmi.ddhirw
.cdykkdrcehgofdmyordsncLhxcryvpkrrgc hgkpmc.gwc hxr,crorxcmygercD.ws
Ehgmk.gercZrrjdrcp.wclyxmkcjrvfgckhce.mkcprxcldsc.gwcphhzchorxckpr
 fxzsci.krxchlckprc.xkymkyecihxdwc.gwctrxzcykmcwrgyargmchgckhckprcuydr
e.xurkmchlcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdr,cJr.epcp.wcp.wcpymclyddchlcreergkxyeyksn
Jfkcfgkydckpymc h rgkcprcp.wcphurwckp.kcUm ykpci.mcvhygvckhcuxhorc.g
.vxrr.jdrcep.gvrclxh ckprcmkxr. chlcdykrx.xscdfg.kyemcipyepcp.wcjrrg
eh ygvc.gwcvhygvc.ddckp.kcir.xscky rnc.gwcdh!cUm ykp’mcg. rcdrwc.ddckpr
xrmkncRorgckprc .gciphcp.wceh rclhxc.cirrzcygc.uxydc.gwcp.wci.gkrwckh
r.kct. ciykpcpymclympcu.drwcygceh u.xymhgn

“Uxhwcpy cygckprcxyjm,cmyx?”cprcbf.orxrwn

“Uxhwcpy cygckprcxyjm,”cm.ywcUm ykpclyx dsnc“.gwc.kckprcm. rcky r
ipymurxcygcpymcr.xckprcihxwc‘.p.!’”cJr.epcdyezrwcpymcwxscdyumn

“.p.,cmyx?”

“.p.!c.gwcm.scykce. rclxh c rn”

“Orxscvhhw,cmyxncKprc .kkrxcmp.ddcjrc.kkrgwrwckh,”cm.ywcJr.epnc.gwciykp
.c flldrwcmhfgwckp.kci.mcp.dlc.cmyvp,cp.dlc.cwr.kp-x.kkdr,cprckhkkrxrw
kpxhfvpckprcvxrrg-j.yarcwhhxn




EP.UKRXcQ

MRGM.KYHG.DcHEEFXXRGERc.Kc.cUHRKXScXR.WYGV


§c1

Jxr.zl.mkci.mchorx,c.gwckprcvfrmkmchlcJd.gwygvmcp.wcme.kkrxrwckhckpryx
 hxgygvcheefu.kyhgmncMh rcirxrcixykygvcdrkkrxm,cmh rcirxrcygckpr
jyddy.xw-xhh :cmh rcp.wcvhgrckhckprcmk.jdrm,cmh rckhckprcdygzm:cD.ws
Ehgmk.gerci.mcygkrxoyriygvckprcphfmrzrrurx,cDhxwcR mihxkpcp.xxsygv
pr.w-v.xwrgrxc e.ddymkrxc. hgvckprcldhirx-jrwm:c.gwcygckprcSric.ddrs,
kprcw.uudrwcmfgdyvpkcl.ddygvcfuhgcprxcvx.erlfdcpr.w,c ymmcUr.orsci.dzrw
urgmyordscfuc.gwcwhign

Mprci.mc.dhgrncYkcymc.cm.wcjfkcygwymufk.jdrcl.ekckp.kcygckpymcy urxlrek
ihxdwcVrgyfmcymckhhchlkrgcehgwr grwckhci.dzc.dhgr--ylckprcr.xkpyrx
 r jrxmchlckprceh  fgykscmrrcykceh ygvc.gwcp.orcky rckhcwfezncGhkchgr
hlckprcphxwrchlcoymykhxmciphcp.wc.xxyorwchorxgyvpkclhxckprcEhfgkscJ.dd
p.wcmphigc.gscwymuhmykyhgcip.krorxckhcehfxkc ymmcUr.ors’mcmheyrksn

HgrcxrvxrkmckpymncRqerukclhxckp.kcmdyvpkcjy.mckhi.xwmcwymphgrmks
ipyepcdrwcprxckhcmkr.dcrorxskpygvcmprcehfdwcd.scprxcp.gwmchgckp.kci.m
ghkcg.ydrwcwhig,c.ydrrgcUr.ors’mci.mc.gc.w yx.jdrcep.x.ekrx;c.gw,
hwwdscrghfvp,cykci.mckprcghjdrcmywrchlcprxcg.kfxrckhcipyepckprmr
eh.xmr-lyjxrwcexykyemchjtrekrwncHlc ymmcUr.ors,ckprcufxdhygrxchl
hkprxcurhudr’mcvhhwm,ckprsczgricghkpygv;ckprcih .gckprscirxrcwhwvygv
i.mc ymmcUr.ors,ckprcuhrkrmmnc.gwcykc .scjrc rgkyhgrwckp.k,cphirorx
 fepcmprc yvpkcfgjrgwcygckprcuxrmrgerchlc.cehgvrgy.dclxyrgwcdyzrc xn
Rwi.xwcEhhkrm,cmprci.mc.curxlrekdscvrgfygrcuhrkrmmncKphmrcmyqcohdf rm
fgwrxcprxcg. rcygckprcJxykympc fmrf ce.k.dhvfrcirxrcprxchigcvrgfygr
.gwcfg.ywrwcihxz:c.gw,ckphfvpcmprcp.wcjrrgceh urddrwckhcu.sclhxckpr
uxhwfekyhgchlckprclyxmkchlckprcmrxyrm,ckprchkprxclyorcp.wcjrrgcjxhfvpk
hfkc.kcprxcufjdymprx’mchigcxymz,c.gwcp.wcrorgc .wrc.cdykkdrc hgrsn

 ymmcUr.ors,cphirorx,ci.mcghkcmhxxsckhcjrc.dhgr:clhxcmprcp.wckp.kchg
prxc ygwcipyepce.ddrwclhxcmhdyk.xsckpygzygvncKprc .kkrxcrgv.vygvcprx
.kkrgkyhgci.mckprcuxhjdr chlcip.kchgcr.xkpcp.wcp.uurgrwckhc xncRwi.xw
EhhkrmncKihcw.smcp.wcu.mmrwcmygercprcp.wcdrlkcprxckhcvhc.gwclhxer
Um ykpc.kckprcuymkhd’mcuhygkckhcygkxhwfercpy cygkhckprce.mkdr:c.gw
mygerckp.kc h rgkcprcp.wco.gymprwceh udrkrdsnc ymmcUr.orscehfdwcghk
fgwrxmk.gwcykn

Pymcghg-.uur.x.gerci.mc.ddckprc hxrcv.ddygvcygckp.kcprxcmfurxjcjx.yg
p.wctfmkceh udrkrwcygcrorxscwrk.ydc.cmepr rclhxckprcmryafxrchlcD.ws
Ehgmk.gercZrrjdr’mcwy. hgwcgrezd.er;c.gwckhckprcmfeermmchlckpymcudhk
pymc.ywci.mc.gcygwymurgm.jdrc.wtfgekncMprci.mcygckprcuhmykyhgchlc.
vrgrx.dciphceh rmclxh cpymckrgkciykpc.cud.gchlcj.kkdrc.ddc .uurwchfk,
.gwclygwmckp.kcpymc.x scp.mcmkxhddrwchllcmh riprxrc.gwcdrlkcpy ncDykkdr
ihgwrxckp.k,c.mcmprcu.erwckprcSric.ddrs,ckprxrci.mc.clxhigchgc ymm
Ur.ors’mcl.yxclhxrpr.wn

KprcSric.ddrs,c.mcDhxwcR mihxkpcp.wcygwye.krwcygcpymcrqkxr rds
ygkrxrmkygvcdrekfxrckhc xncX.dmkhgc eKhwwc.kckprcMrgyhxcEhgmrxo.kyor
Edfj,cehgk.ygrwc. hgvchkprxcghkrihxkpsclr.kfxrmcerxk.ygcsrimcipyepcxhmr
ygcmhdywcjdhezmciykpcxhfgwrwcxhhlc.gwcmkr drmmc fmpxhh clygy.dm,ckpr
 .thxykscuhmmrmmygvc.xeprwcxrermmrm,clhx ygvc.xjhxmnc.mc ymmcUr.orsci.m
u.mmygvchgrchlckprmr,c.cohyercmfwwrgdsc.wwxrmmrwcprxn

“Prs!”

 ymmcUr.orscmk.xkrwcoyhdrgkdsn

“.gshgrc.jhfk?”

.cw. ucl.erciykpckiyvmcmkyezygvckhcykci.mcuxhkxfwygvclxh c.cgr.x-js
srincYkcxhddrwcykmcrsrmcygc.gcygrllrekf.dcrllhxkckhcmrrcxhfgwckpr
ehxgrxn

 ymmcUr.orscwxricgr.xrx,cjxr.kpygvcpr.oydsncKprcbfrmkyhgc.mckhckpr
iprxr.jhfkmchlcprxci.gwrxygvcjhsci.mcmhdorw;cjfkckprc.jxfukgrmmchlcpym
xrkfxgcp.wce.fmrwcprxckhcjykrcprxckhgvfr;c.gwcths,c.mcmprcehglxhgkrw
py ,ci.mcjdrgwrwciykpchkprxcr hkyhgmn

“Shfcwymp-l.erwcv.ahhgy!”cmprcrqed.y rwcpr.krwds,cprxcohyerckxr jdygv
iykpc.cmrgmrchlcydd-fm.vr,c“iprxrcwhcshfcvrkckp.kcmkfll,cpywygvcyg
kxrrm,c.gwcj.xzygvc.cvyxd’mcpr.wchll?”

“Mhxxs,cDyancYcncncn”

“.gwciprxr,”cuxherrwrwc ymmcUr.ors,corgkyd.kygvc.ghkprxcvxyro.ger,
“p.orcshfcjrrgc.ddckpymcw.xgrwcky r?cVhmp-wygvyk,cshfcdr.orc rc.cehfud.
w.smcj.ezcm.sygvcshf’xrcvhygvckhcmkyezcfuckpymcjhahckp.kce.ddmcpy mrdl
 eKhwwciykpc.cv.kc.gwc .zrcpy cvrkcshfcygkhckprcphfmr,c.gwckp.k’mckpr
d.mkcYcmrrchlcshfncIp.k’mckprcjyvcywr.?”

“Yk’mc.ddcxyvpk,cDyancPrcwywcvrkc rcygkhckprcphfmrncY’ cpymco.drkn
Kp.k’mcipscYcehfdwg’kcvrkc.kcshfcjrlhxrncKprci.sckprcprducp.mckhczrru
ykmrdlckhcykmrdlcygckpymcthygk,circ yvpkc.mcirddcp.orcjrrgcygcwyllrxrgk
ehfgkyrmncYlcYcp.wg’kcp.uurgrwckhcmrrcshfcmghhuygvchllcjscshfxmrdlckpym
 hxgygvcncncn”

 ymmcUr.ors’mczrrgc ygwcvx.murwckprcuhmykyhgchlc.ll.yxmn

“.ddcxyvpk,c.ddcxyvpk,”cmprcygkrxxfukrw,crorxcy u.kyrgkchlcdhgv
murreprmclxh chkprxmnc“Ycfgwrxmk.gwncIrdd,ckpymcymcvhhw,cRwncYk
ehfdwg’kcp.orcihxzrwchfkcjrkkrxncY’orcvhkc.cmepr rc.ddcwhurwchfk,c.gw
ghicshf’xrcprxrcirce.gcvrkcjfmsn”

“.cmepr r?”

“.cuyuuyg,”c.mmrgkrwc ymmcUr.orsn

“Yk’ddcgrrwckhcjr,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrm,chgciph ckprcrorgkmchlckprcd.mkclri
w.smcp.wce.fmrwcurmmy ym ckhcmrkcykmcmr.dnc“Yckrddcshfckp.kc eKhwwcvhhz
ymcm hhkpncPrcmh rphi,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmcuxfwrgkds,clhxcprclr.xrwcp.xmp
exykyeym mclxh cpymcd.ws-dhorcmphfdwcprcxror.dckprciphdrckxfkp,c“pr
mh rphicvhkciymrckhckprcghkyhgckp.k,c.mcYci.mcpymco.drk,cYcehfdwcvhc.gw
mghhucxhfgwcygcpymcxhh ,ciprxrcpr’wcjrci.gkygvckhcpywrckprcmkfllcylcpr
rorxcvhkcyk,c.gwcghicpr’mcvhgrc.gwcvhkckpr ckhcdrkcpy cp.orc.czygwchl
mp.ezcygckprcihhwmn”

“P’ !”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsnc“Irdd,”cmprcxrmf rwc.lkrxc.ckphfvpklfdcu.fmr,
“Y’ cghkcihxxsygvc.jhfkcpy ncDrkcpy cvhc.gwcxhhmkcygckprcihhwmc.ddcpr
i.gkmckhncY’orcvhkc.cmepr rc.ddcxr.ws,c.gwcyk’mcvydk-rwvrwnc.gw,cfgdrmm
shfcj.ddcfucshfxcrgwchlcyk,cRw,cykce.g’kcl.ydckhcwx.vcph rckprcvx.osn”

“. cYcygcyk?”

“Shfcjrkcshf’xrcygcykncYce.g’kcihxzcykciykphfkcshfncKp.k’mcip.k’mcjrrg
 .zygvc rcmhcw.xgrwc .wciprgcshfcwywg’kcmphicfuc.ddckpymcky rn”

“Muyddcyk,cDya,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmcpf jdsnc.mc.di.smcygckprcuxrmrgerchl
kpymcwsg. yecih .g,cprci.mcmfllrxygvclxh c.gcyglrxyhxyksceh udrqncLxh 
kprcorxscmk.xkchlckpryxceh jygrwc.ekyoykyrmcmprcp.wcjrrgckprcjx.ygmchl
kprclyx ,cprc rxrdsckprcygmkxf rgkckhce.xxscygkhcrllrekckprcud.gmcmpr
wyek.krwn

 ymmcUr.orscvd.gerwcmiylkdscfuc.gwcwhigckprcSric.ddrsncYkci.mcmkyddckpr
m. rcur.erlfd,cdhgrdscmuhkncMprckfxgrwckhc xncEhhkrmc.v.yg,c.gwcmuhzr
iykpcjxymzcwreymyhgn

“Ghi,cdymkrg,cRw,c.gwcvrkckpymcmkx.yvpk,cjre.fmrc .sjrcYcmp.g’kcp.or
.ghkprxcep.gerchlck.dzygvckhcshfn”

“Y’ cdymkrgygv,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmchjmrbfyhfmdsn

“Irdd,ckhcjrvygciykp,cghickp.kckprcphfmrcymclfdd,cPrxcGyjmcymcir.xygv
kp.kcgrezd.ercrorxscgyvpknc.gwcshfce.gck.zrcykclxh c r,cRw,ckp.kcshf
i.gkckhcufkchgcshfxcm hzrwcvd.mmrmcjrlhxrcshfcdhhzc.kcykncYk’mc.
d.d.u.dhhm.n”

“.mcvhhwc.mckp.k?”

“.mzc r!cShfcwhg’kczghickprcp.dlchlcykn”

“Iprxrcwhrmcmprczrrucyk,cDya?cP.orcshfclhfgwckp.kchfk?”c.mzrwc xn
Ehhkrm,c.cvdr. chlchuky ym cud.sygvc.exhmmcpymcm.wcl.erclhxc.gcygmk.gkn

“Gh,cYcp.org’knc.gwcYcwhg’kci.gkckhncY’orcghkcvhkcky rckhci.mkr
 hgzrsygvc.jhfkciykpcm.lrmc.gwc .sjrcp.oygvckprciphdrcjfgepcuydrchgckpr
j.ezchlc scgrezncYcjrdyrorcygcvrkkygvckpygvmcr.msncIrdd,ckh-gyvpkckpym
jy jhckp.kce.ddmcpy mrdlc eKhwwcymcvhygvckhcvyorc.cxr.wygvchlcpymcuhr m
ygckprcjyvcwx.iygv-xhh ncShfczghiciprxrckp.kcym?”

“Yce.gclygwchfkn”

“.gwcshfcjrkkrxcp.wclygwchfk,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orscorpr rgkdsnc“.gwcjrlhxr
kh-gyvpkc.kckp.kncIrdd,ckprxrcshfc.xrncWhcshfcjrvygckhcvrkciymr?”

 xncEhhkrm,cpymcpr.wcuxhkxfwygvcfgp.uuydsclxh ckprcsrickxrr,cihfdwcp.or
vyorgc fepckhcp.orcjrrgc.jdrckhc .zrckprcwr .gwrwced.y ckhciymwh ,
lhxcprczgrichlchdwckprcmkhxrcpymc.drxkcu.xkgrxcmrkcfuhgcbfyezgrmm
hlcygkrddrekncPrci.mceh urddrw,cphirorx,ckhcwymkfxjckprcjx.geprmcjs
mp.zygvcpymcpr.wn

“Shfc.di.smcirxrcuxrkkscwf j,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsciykpcmehxgnc“Y’ddcm.s
kp.kcshf’orcvhkcvhhwcmhdywcbf.dykyrm,cRw--lxh ckprcgrezcfuncIps,cY’ 
vhygvckhcmykcjrpygwcD.wscEhgmk.gercipydrckp.kcvhhlcymcmphhkygvcpymclhhd
pr.wchll,c.gwcY’ cvhygvckhcxr.epchfkc.gwcvx.jckp.kcgrezd.erchllchlcprxn
Mrr?”

“Jfk,cDya”-- xncEhhkrmcwyllywrgkdscmf  hgrwcfucehfx.vrckhcuhygkchfk
ip.kc.uur.xrwckhcpy ckhcjrc.cld.icygckprcmepr r--“ylcshfcmk.xkc.gs
mkxhgv-.x cihxzcygclxhgkchlcrorxsjhwscdyzrckprci.scshfcm.s,cihg’k
kprscncncnc?”

“Gh,ckprscihg’knc.gwcY’ddckrddcshfcipsckprscihg’kncKprsc.xrg’kcvhygvckh
mrrc rcwhcyk,cjre.fmrciprgcYcwhcykcyk’mcvhygvckhcjrcvhhwc.gwcw.xzcyg
kp.kcxhh nc.gwcyk’mcvhygvckhcjrcw.xzcjre.fmrcshf’ddcjrcmh riprxrmchfk
.kckprcj.ezchlckprcphfmr,ciprxrorxckprsczrruckprc .ygcrdrekxye-dyvpk
ihxzm,ckfxgygvckprcmiykepc.mcp.xwc.mcshfce.gcvhncMrr?cKp.k’mcshfxcrgw
hlcyk,c.gwcuxrkkscmhlkclhxcshfc.kckp.knc.ddcshfcp.orckhcwhcymckhclygw
hfkciprxrckprckpygvcymc.gwcip.kcshfcp.orckhcwhckhcykckhcufkchfkc.ddckpr
dyvpkmcygckprcthygkncYcvfrmmcYce.gckxfmkcshfcghkckhcjfgvdrckp.k?”

“Dya,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrm,c.gwckprxrci.mcxrorxrgercygcpymcohyer,c“shfce.g
whctfmkckp.kcdykkdrckpygvncJfkcip.kcncncnc?”

“.ddcxyvpk,cYczghicip.kcshf’xrcvhygvckhcm.sncIp.kcp.uurgmc.lkrxckp.k,
.gwcphicwhcYcvrkc.i.sciykpckprcmkfll?cIrdd,ckprciygwhi’ddcjrchurg,c.gw
Y’ddctfmkcvrkckhcykc.gwcldygvckprcgrezd.erchfkncMrr?cKprxr’ddcjrc.cjyv
lfmmcvhygvchgcygckprcxhh chgc.eehfgkchlckprcw.xzgrmmc.gwc.ddckp.k,c.gw
ipydrcrorxsjhws’mcefkkygvcfuc.gwcip.k-kpr-prddygv,cshf’ddcuyezcfucshfx
whvmc.gwcxfgcxhfgwc.mcbfyezc.mcshfce.gc .zrcykc.gwcuhfepckprckpygvncY
vfrmmcykcihg’kcjrcp.xwclhxcshfckhcdhe.krcykncKprciygwhi’mctfmkchorxckpr
krxx.er,c.ddcm hhkpckfxl,c.gwcykcymg’kcxr.dcw.xzcgyvpkmcghi,c.gwcshf
hfvpkckhcp.orcudrgkschlcky rckhcpfgkc.xhfgwcjrlhxrckprsce.gcvrkckpr
dyvpkmcvhygvc.v.ygncncncncIrdd,cip.kcwhcshfckpygzchlcyk?”cKprxrci.mc.
jxyrlcmydrgern

“Dya,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmc.kcdrgvkpn

“Ymcykchxcymcykcghk,”cwr .gwrwc ymmcUr.ors,c“.cj.ddchlclyxr?”

“Dya,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrm,c.gwcpymcohyerci.mcpfmzsciykpcmfepc.irc.mcmh r
shfgvchllyerxchlcG.uhdrhg’mcmk.llc yvpkcp.orclrdkchgcpr.xygvckpr
wrk.ydmchlckprcd.krmkcud.gchlce. u.yvg,c“Dya,cY’orcm.ywcykcjrlhxr,c.gw
Y’ddcm.scykc.v.ygncIprgcykceh rmckhckprcm hhkpcmkfll,chdwcvyxd,cshf’xr
kprchsmkrx’mcrsr-khhkp!”

.gw,cxr.epygvchfkc.gc.x clxh ckprcxrermmrmchlckprcsri,cprckhhzc ymm
Ur.ors’mcp.gwcygcpymc.gwcv.orcykc.ckrgwrxcmbfrrarnc.cwxr. scdhhzce. r
ygkhckprcuhrkrmm’mclygrcrsrm,c.gwcmprcvyvvdrwc.cdykkdrncWf j-jrdd
kphfvpcprci.m,cmprcdhorwckpymc .gn


§c2

“ xncJ.qkrx!”

“Srm,c ymmcP.ddyw.s?”

KprcJx.ygmchlcJd.gwygvmcdhhzrwc.jmkx.ekrwdscfuclxh cpymcwrmzncYkci.m
hgdscmh rcp.dl-phfxcmygercdfgeprhgcp.wclygymprw,cjfkc.dxr.wscprci.mcyg
kprcdyjx.xscmfxxhfgwrwcjscd.xvrcjhhzmcdyzrc.cmr.-jr.mkc. hgvcxhezmn
 hmkchlcpymcky rci.mcmurgkcygckprcdyjx.xsciprgckprce.mkdrci.mclfddchl
vfrmkm,clhxcpymcdhlksc ygwci.mcydd-.kkfgrwckhckprclxyohdhfmcj.jjdygvm
hlcMheyrkscjfkkrxldyrmn

“Ycihgwrxcylcshfcehfdwcmu.xrc rckpymc.lkrxghhg?”cm.ywcRorn

J.qkrxcwyxrekrwckprcvd.xrchlcpymcmurek.edrmcfuhgcprxcygbfymykhxy.ddsn

“Kprciphdrc.lkrxghhg?”

“Ylcshfcwhg’kc ygwncShfcmrr,cYcp.wc.cdrkkrxcjsckprcmrehgwcuhmkclxh c.
vxr.kclxyrgwchlc ygr,cm.sygvckp.kcmprciyddcjrcygc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmckpym
.lkrxghhgc.gwc.mzygvc rckhc rrkcprxckprxrncYc fmkcmrrcprx,c xncJ.qkrx,
_udr.mr_ncShf’orcghcghkyhgcphicy uhxk.gkcykcymn”

Ror’mc .ggrxci.mcrqeykrw,c.gwcprxcrsrmc.mckprsc rkcJ.qkrx’mcmu.xzdrwcyg
.cl.mpyhgckp.kc yvpkcp.orcwymkfxjrwc.c .gc .wrchlcdrmmcmkrxgcmkfllncYl
ykcp.wcjrrgckprcPhgncLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhw,clhxcygmk.ger,ciphcp.wcjrrg
v.aygvcygkhckpryxcjdfrcwrukpm,ckp.kcy ufdmyorcshfkpcihfdwcp.orckyrw
py mrdlcygkhczghkmc.gwcs.uurwcdyzrc.cwhvncJ.qkrx,ckprcmfurx .g,clrdk
ghcfxvrckhi.xwmc.gscmfepcwymud.sncPrcxroyrirwcprxcxrbfrmkce.d dsc.gw
tfwyey.dds,c.gwcwreywrwckp.kcykci.mc.cxr.mhg.jdrchgrn

“Orxscirdd,c ymmcP.ddyw.sn”

“Kp.gzcshfcrorxcmhc fepncY’ddc .zrcfuclhxcykcjscihxzygvckiyerc.mcp.xw
kh- hxxhin”

Rorcldykkrwckhckprcwhhx,cu.fmygvckprxrckhcjrmkhic.cvx.krlfdcm ydrcfuhg
py cjrlhxrcvhygvchfk;c.gwcJ.qkrxcxrkfxgrwckhcpymcxr.wygvncLhxc.c h rgk
prci.mcehgmeyhfmchlc.clrrdygvchlcxrvxrkckp.kckpymcbfykrc.kkx.ekyorc.gw
fgylhx dscxrmureklfdcvyxdcmphfdwcjrckprcu.xkgrxcygcexy rchlc.c .gchl
iph cprcwym.uuxhorwcrorgc hxrckp.gcprcwym.uuxhorwchlc hmkc .drl.ekhxmn
Kprgcprcexfmprwcwhigckprcir.zcr hkyhgc.gwci.mcpy mrdlc.v.ygn

Rorckxhkkrwcwhigmk.yxm,cpf  ygvcp.uuydsckhcprxmrdlncMprcp.wcrqurekrw
.cdhgvrxc.gwc hxrcmkxrgfhfmcmkxfvvdrcjrlhxrcmprchjk.ygrwcprxchxwrxchl
xrdr.mr,c.gwckhdwcprxmrdlckp.k,cwrmuykrc.c .ggrxcipyepcmrdwh cwroy.krw
lxh ckprclhxjywwygv,cJ.qkrxci.mcxr.ddscbfykrcgyerncYgcmphxk,cykcmrr rw
khcprxckp.kcghkpygvcehfdwcuhmmyjdscheefxckhc .xckprcthslfdgrmmchlckpym
.w yx.jdrc.lkrxghhg;c.gwcykci.mchgdsciprgc.cohyercp.ydrwcprxc.mcmprci.m
vhygvckpxhfvpckprcp.ddc.clric ygfkrmcd.krxckp.kcmprcxr.dymrwckp.kcmpr
i.mc ymk.zrgncKprcohyer,cipyepckxr jdrwckpxh.kyds,ci.mckp.kchlckprcPhgn
Lxrwwyr;c.gwcprxclyxmkcdhhzc.kcpy ckhdwcRor,c.gcrqurxkcwy.vghmkyey.g,
kp.kcprci.mcvhygvckhcuxhuhmrckhcprxc.v.ygn

“Irdd,cLxrwwyr?”cm.ywcRorcxrmyvgrwdsn

KprcPhgncLxrwrxyezcKpxrruihhwci.mc.cshfgvc .gciphci.mcfmrwckhcpr.xygv
urhudrcm.sc“Irdd,cLxrwwyr?”cxrmyvgrwdsciprgcprc.uur.xrwncPymcl.kprx
m.ywcyk;cpymc.fgkcEhgmk.gercm.ywcyk;c.ddcpymchkprxc.fgkmc.gwcfgedrm
m.ywcykncIywrdscwyllrxygvcurxmhg.dykyrmcygcrorxschkprxcxrmurek,ckprs
.ddcm.ywc“Irdd,cLxrwwyr?”cxrmyvgrwdscwyxrekdsckprsce.fvpkcmyvpkchlcpy n
Ror’mcihxwm,ckprxrlhxr,c.gwckprckhgrcygcipyepckprscirxrcmuhzrg,cwywcghk
w. ucpy c.mckprsc yvpkcp.orcw. urwc.ghkprxncPymchgdsclrrdygvci.mchgrchl
mhdr gcvd.wgrmmc.kckprckphfvpkckp.kc.kcd.mkcprcp.wc .g.vrwckhcvrkcprx
.dhgrclhxcp.dlc.c ygfkrn

Kprcl.ekckp.kckpymci.mckprclyxmkcky rcprcp.wcjrrgc.jdrckhcvrkcprx
.dhgrcmygercprxc.xxyo.dc.kckprce.mkdrcp.wce.fmrwcLxrwwyrc.cvhhwcwr.d
hlcmhxxhincJ.wcdfezci.mcip.kcprc.kkxyjfkrwcykckh,ckprxrjscvyoygvckpr
hjtrekchlcpymc.llrekyhgmcdrmmcexrwykckp.gci.mcprxcwfrclhxc.c .mkrxds
uhdyeschlcro.myhgncPrcmywdrwcfu,cdhhzygvcdyzrc.cirdd-wxrmmrwcmprrun

“Vhygvc.gsiprxr?”cprcygbfyxrwn

“SrmncY’ cvhygvckhc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmncYmg’kcykc.cdhordsc.lkrxghhg?
Ycmfuuhmrcshfc.xrcjfmsc.ddckprcky rcghickp.kckprcphfmrcymclfdd?
Vhhw-jsr,”cm.ywcRorn

“Rp?”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,cjdygzygvn

“Vhhw-jsrncYc fmkcjrcpfxxsygvn”

“Iprxrcwywcshfcm.scshfcirxrcvhygv?”

“ .xzrkcJd.gwygvmn”

“Y’ddceh rciykpcshfn”

“Gh,cYci.gkckhcjrc.dhgrncY’orcvhkckhc rrkcmh rhgrckprxrn”

“Eh rciykpcshfc.mcl.xc.mckprcv.krm,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,ckprcpf .gcdy urkn

Kprc.lkrxghhgcmfgcmrr rwckhcRorckhcjrcmpygygvc.cdykkdrcdrmmcjxyvpkdsc.m
kprscmk.xkrwcwhigckprcwxyorncMprci.mc.czygw-pr.xkrwcvyxd,c.gwcykcyxzrw
prxckhcp.orckhcjrcehgkygf.ddsc.ekygvc.mc.cjd.ezclxhmkcygcLxrwwyr’m
v.xwrgchlcwxr. mncKprxrc.uur.xrw,cphirorx,ckhcjrcjfkckihci.smchfkchl
kprckpygv:crykprxcmprc fmkc.eerukcpy chxcprc fmkcmkhucuxhuhmygvncKpr
lyxmkchlckprmrc.dkrxg.kyormcmprcxrmhdfkrdscwredygrwckhcehgmywrx,c.gw,
.mcl.xc.mci.mc.merxk.yg.jdrclxh cpymc.ekyhgm,cLxrwwyrcwredygrwctfmk
.mcxrmhdfkrdsckhcehgmywrxckprcmrehgwncKprcxrmfdkci.mckp.kcmhdyk.xs
ygkrxoyrimcjrkirrgckpr cirxrcmrdwh ciphddsclxrrclxh cr j.xx.mmygv
wrordhu rgkmn

Kprsci.dzrwclhxc.cipydrcygcmydrgerncKprg:

“Shf’xrcw.mprwcp.xwchgc.clrddhi,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrn

“Phi’mcshfxcufkkygvceh ygvchg?”c.mzrwcRorn

“Rp?”

“ShfxcufkkygvncShfckhdwc rcshfcp.wcmhc fepckxhfjdrciykpcykn”

Mprci.mcghkcdhhzygvc.kcpy ,clhxcmprcp.wcwrordhurwc.cp.jykchlcghk
dhhzygvc.kcpy chgckprmrchee.myhgm;cjfkcmprc.mmf rwckp.kckprchwwcmhfgw
ipyepcvxrrkrwcprxcxr .xzci.mc.cphddhi,c yxkpdrmmcd.fvpn

“ scufkkygv!”

“Irdd,cshfckhdwc rcshfxmrdlcyk’mckprc hmkcy uhxk.gkcu.xkchlcvhdln”

“Vhdl!cWhcshfckpygzcYcp.orcky rckhcihxxsc.jhfkcvhdlckprmrcw.sm?”

“Hp,cphicmudrgwyw,cLxrwwyr!c.xrcshfcxr.ddscwhygvcmh rcihxzchlcmh r
zygw?cYk’mcbfykrcky r,cshfczghincKpygzcphicudr.mrwcshfxcl.kprxciyddcjrn”

“Ycm.s,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,c“Ycwhckpygzcshfc yvpkc .xxsc.cep.un”

“YcmfuuhmrcYcmp.ddcmh rcw.s,”cm.ywcRor,c“ylcYc rrkckprcxyvpkchgrn”

“Gh,cgh!”cm.ywcLxrwwyrcwrmu.yxygvdsncMprci.mcghkcfmf.ddscmhcwrgmrc.m
kpymncPrcp.wc.di.smcdhhzrwchgcprxc.mc.cw.mprwcedrorxcvyxdnc“Yc r.g
_ r_n”

RorcmyvprwncMprcp.wcphurwckhc.orxkckprcygroyk.jdrn

“Hp,cLxrwwyr!”cmprcrqed.y rw,crq.murx.krwncMprci.mcmkyddcmhxxsclhx
py ,cjfkcmprcehfdwcghkcprducjrygvcyxxyk.krwncYkci.mcmfepc.cmudrgwyw
.lkrxghhgc.gwcmprcp.wcjrrgclrrdygvcmhcp.uusnc.gwcghicprcp.wcmuhydrw
rorxskpygvncYkc.di.smckhhzcprxc.kcdr.mkcp.dlc.gcphfxckhcvrkchorxckpr
grxohfmcmkx.ygchlcxrlfmygvcpymcuxhuhm.dmn

“Ycdhorcshf,cw.mpcyk!”cm.ywcLxrwwyrn

“Irdd,cwhcmkhucdhoygvc r,”cm.ywcRornc“Y’ c.gc.ilfdcvyxd,cxr.ddsncY’w
 .zrcshfc ymrx.jdrn”

“P.uuyrmkc .gcygckprcihxdw,”cehxxrekrwcLxrwwyrcwrohfkdsn

“Y’orcvhkc.clxyvpklfdckr urxn”

“Shf’xrc.gc.gvrdn”

Ror’mcrq.murx.kyhgcygexr.mrwncMprc.di.smcp.wc.cefxyhfmclr.xckp.kchgrchl
kprmrcw.sm,cylcprcirgkchgcuxhuhmygv,cmprc yvpkcm.sc“Srm”cjsc ymk.zrn
Mprciymprwckp.kckprxrci.mcmh rci.sczghigckhcmeyrgerchlcmkhuuygvcpy 
hgerc.gwclhxc.ddnc.gwcygcprxcwrmurx.kyhgcmprckphfvpkchlc.cdygrchl
.xvf rgkcipyepcmprcp.wcghkcsrkcr udhsrwn

“Yk’mcmhc.jmfxw,cLxrwwyr,”cmprcm.ywnc“Xr.dds,cykcymnc.u.xkclxh ckpr
l.ekckp.kcYcwhg’kci.gkckhc .xxscshf,cphice.gcshfc .xxsc.gshgr--.gshgr,
Yc r.g,ciphcp.mg’kcudrgkschlc hgrs?”

“Ihfdwg’kcwxr. chlc .xxsygvclhxc hgrsn”

“Gh,chlcehfxmrcghk,cjfkcncncn”

“Efuyw,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrcihhwrgds,c“uygrmc.gwcmyezrgmcygc.cvydwrwce.vrn”

Rorcp.wcghkcrqurekrwckhcjrcmfxuxymrwcjsc.gskpygvcprxceh u.gyhgc yvpk
m.s,cykcjrygvcprxcrqurxyrgerckp.kcprcuhmmrmmrwc.cohe.jfd.xschlc.jhfk
lhxks-kpxrrcihxwmc.gwc.cmf -khk.dchlcywr.mckp.kcp.xwdscx.gcygkhckih
lyvfxrm;cjfkckpymcuhrkyecxr .xzckhhzcprxcj.ezn

“Ip.k!”

Lxrwwyrcxrur.krwckprchjmrxo.kyhgncIprgcykcp.wcjrrgcld.mprwchgckpr
mexrrgc.mc.cmuhzrgcmfj-kykdrcygckprcmyq-xrrdcihgwrxclyd ,c“Dhorchx
 .  hg”c(Jr.kxyercEh rdsc.gwcJxy.gcLx.mrx),cprcp.wc.uuxhorwc.gwc .wrc.
ghkrchlcykn

“Hp!”cm.ywcRor,c.gwci.mcmydrgknc.mc ymmcUr.orscihfdwcp.orcufkcyk,cyk
prdwcprxclhxc.cipydrnc“Ip.kcYc r.gk,”cmprcirgkchgc.lkrxc.c h rgk,c“i.m
kp.kcshfce.g’kcuhmmyjdsc .xxsc.cvyxdciykphfkc hgrscfgdrmmcshf’orcmh r
 hgrschlcshfxchign”

“Ycm.s,cw.mpcyk!”c.cmkx.gvrcghkrchlctfjyd.kyhgcp.wceh rcygkhckpr
ihhrx’mcohyernc“Ycm.s,cymckp.kcxr.ddsc.ddckp.kcmk.gwmcjrkirrgcfm?
Jre.fmrcncncn”

“Gh,cykcymg’k!”

“Jre.fmr,cdhhzcprxr,cY’ cvhygvckhcp.orcbfykrc.cvhhwcwr.dchlc hgrsc.k
.gsc h rgkncYk’mc hxrchxcdrmmchlc.cmrexrk,cshfczghi--ygcl.ekc.cuxrkks
wr.wympcmrexrk--mhczrrucykcw.xz,cjfkcFgedrcThrcymcvhygvckhcvyorc rc.
ehfudrchlckphfm.gwcbfywncPrcuxh ymrwc rncKihckphfm.gwchlckprcexymurmkn
.jmhdfkrds!”

“FgedrcThr?”

“_Shf_czghincHdwcZrrjdrncPr’mcvhygvckhcvyorc rc.cehfudrchlckphfm.gw
bfyw,c.gwckprgcY’ cvhygvckhcjfsc.cu.xkgrxmpyucygc.cjhhzyr’mcjfmygrmm
.gwcmy udscehygc hgrsncMk.gwmckhcxr.mhg,cYc r.gncShfce.g’kcprduc .zygv
shfxcj.ddsclhxkfgrncDhhzc.kc.ddckprc fvmciphc.xrcdhmygvc hgrsc.ddckpr
ky rc.kckprcx.ermncYk’mckprcjhhzyrmckp.kcvrkckprcmkfllnc.cu.dchlc ygr
iphci.mcfuc.kcHqlhxwciykpc rcymcygc.cjhhzyr’mchllyer,c.gwckprs’xrcvhygv
khcdrkc rcygcylcYcncncn”

Kprc h rgkhfmcg.kfxrchlcpymcyglhx .kyhgcp.wce.fmrwcRorckhcwroy.krcghi
lxh cprxcuhdyeschlczrruygvcprxcrsrmchllcLxrwwyrciprgcygcr hkyhg.dcorygn
.gw,cylcmprcp.wcwrmyxrwckhceprezcpymcdrekfxrchgclyg.ger,cmprcehfdw
p.orcephmrgcghcjrkkrxc rkphwckp.gckhcdhhzc.kcpy ;clhx,c rrkygvcprx
v.ar,cLxrwwyrcy  rwy.krdscdhmkckprckpxr.wchlcpymcwymehfxmrc.gwcmkhhw
s.  rxygvnc.cwyxrekcpykclxh cRor’mcrsrmc.di.smc.llrekrwcpy cygckpym
i.sn

“ xncZrrjdrcymcvhygvckhcvyorcshfckihckphfm.gwcuhfgwm!”

.ci.orchlc hxkylye.kyhgcmirukchorxcRorncYlckprxrci.mchgrckpygvchgcipyep
mprcuxywrwcprxmrdl,cykci.mckprcjrdyrlckp.kcmprci.mc.cdhs.dclxyrgw,
.cmk.fgepcu.d;c.gwcghiclhxckprclyxmkcky rcmprclhfgwcprxmrdlcl.eygv
kprcfgudr.m.gkckxfkpckp.kcmprcp.wcjrrgcgrvdrekygvcUpsddymcT.ezmhg’m
ygkrxrmkmcygckprc hmkc.jh yg.jdrci.scrorxcmygercmprcp.wceh rckh
Jd.gwygvmncMprcp.wcwrlygykrdscuxh ymrwcUpsddymckp.kcmprcihfdwck.ezdr
kpymcmkrul.kprxchlcprxmc.gwcmp. rcpy ciykpcjfxgygvcihxwmcygkhcsyrdwygv
fuckprckpxrrckphfm.gwcuhfgwmcipyepcUpsddymcgrrwrwcmhcwrmurx.krdsclhx
prxcDygehdgmpyxrcl.x nc.gwcip.kcp.wcmprcwhgr?cGhkpygvn

Rorci.mcphgrmkckhckprcehxr,crorgcygcprxcwr.dygvmciykpcprxmrdlnc.cdrmm
ehgmeyrgkyhfmcvyxdc yvpkcp.orc.xvfrwckp.kcmprcp.wcp.wcghchuuhxkfgyks
hlc.cuxyo.krcygkrxoyriciykpc xncZrrjdrncMprcmehxgrwckhcmhhkprcprxmrdl
iykpckpymcmureyhfmcudr.ncYlcmprcp.wcvyorgcprxc ygwckhcykcmprcehfdwcp.or
jxhfvpkc.jhfkc.cwhargcuxyo.krcygkrxoyrim,c.gwcmprczgricykncGhncMpr
p.wc.ddhirwckprcudr.m.gkcurxmymkrgerchlcUm ykpckhck.zrcfucprxcky r,
.gwcUpsddymc.gwcprxckxhfjdrmcp.wcjrrgckpxfmkcygkhckprcj.ezvxhfgwncMpr
ehglrmmrw,cwrmuymygvcprxmrdl,ckp.kcmprcp.wcp.xwdscvyorgcUpsddymc.
kphfvpkn

.gwc.ddckprcipydrckpymc xncZrrjdrcp.wcjrrgcygc.cuhmykyhgckhcme.kkrx
d.xvrmm,ckphfm.gwmchlcuhfgwmchlcyk,ckhcfgwrmrxoygvcurhudrcdyzrcLxrwwyrn
Ips,c.cihxwclxh cprxc.jhfkcUpsddymcihfdwcp.orcncncn

“Kihckphfm.gwcuhfgwm?”cmprcxrur.krwcwyaaydsnc“ xncZrrjdr!”

“.jmhdfkrds!”cexyrwcLxrwwyrcx.wy.gkdsncKprclyxmkcmphezchlcdhhzygvcygkh
prxcrsrmcp.wcu.mmrw,c.gwcprci.mcghicxrorddygvcygckp.kcheefu.kyhgn

“Ip.kclhx?”

Lxrwwyr’mcx.ukcv.arcldyezrxrwncDhor,cprcurxeryorw,cp.wcgr.xdsce.fmrw
py ckhcjrcygwymexrrkn

“Hp,cYcwhg’kczghi,”cprc f jdrwnc“Pr’mctfmkcvyoygvcykc r,cshfczghi,
whg’kcshfczghin”

“Wywcshfcmy udscvhckhcpy c.gwc.mzcpy clhxcyk?”

“Irdd--rx--irdd,csrmncKp.kci.mc.jhfkckprcmkxrgvkpchlcykn”

“.gwcprcwywg’kchjtrek?”

“GhncPrcmrr rwcx.kprxcudr.mrwn”

“Udr.mrw!”cRorclhfgwcjxr.kpygvcwyllyefdkncMprci.mclrrdygvcx.kprxcdyzrc.
 .gciphcmfwwrgdscwymehorxmckp.kckprcphdrcygcpymcj.ezcs.xwcipyepcprcp.m
jrrgcu.mmygvcghgep.d.gkdsclhxc hgkpmcymc.cvhdw ygrncYlckprchurx.kyhgchl
rqkx.ekygvc hgrsclxh c xncZrrjdrci.mcghkchgdscr.mscjfkc.dmhc.vxrr.jdr
khckprcoyeky cncncncMprcjre. rc.i.xrchlc.cmfwwrgcy urx.kyorcgrrwclhx
Lxrwwyr’mc.jmrgerncMprci.gkrwckhckpygzckpymckpygvchorxn

“Irdd,ckprg,”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,c“eh ygvcj.ezckhcyk,ciyddcshf?”

“Ip.k?”cm.ywcRor,cwymkx.ykn

“ .xxsc r,cshfczghincIp.kcYc r.gckhcm.scym,cYcihxmpyuckprcorxs
vxhfgwcshfci.dzchg,c.gwc.ddckp.kcmhxkchlcxhkcncncncYc r.g,c.gwc.dd
kp.knc.gwcghickp.kcshfcxr.dymrckp.kcY’ cvhygvckhcvrkckpymcehfudrchl
kphfm.gwcncncnc.gwckprcjhhzyr’mcjfmygrmmcncncnc.gwcip.kcghk,cYc r.gckh
m.scncncn”

“Lxrwwyr,”cm.ywcRorckrgmrds,crquxrmmygvcprxcp.x.mmrwcgrxormcygc.cohyer
kp.kce. rcphkdsckpxhfvpcedrgeprwckrrkp,c“vhc.i.s!”

“Rp?”

“Ycwhg’kci.gkckhc .xxscshf,c.gwcY’ cmyezchlcp.oygvckhczrruchgckrddygv
shfcmhncIyddcshfcudr.mrcvhc.i.sc.gwcdr.orc rc.dhgr?”cMprcmkhuurwncPrx
mrgmrchlcl.yxgrmmckhdwcprxckp.kcmprci.mcihxzygvchllchgcprxcp.udrmm
mfykhxcorgh cipyepcmphfdwcp.orcjrrgcrqurgwrwchgcprxmrdlnc“Y’ cmhxxs,
Lxrwwyr,”cmprcm.yw,cmhlkrgygv;c“Ycwywg’kc r.gckhcjrcmfepc.cjr.mkc.m
kp.kncYczghicshf’xrc.ilfddsclhgwchlc r,cjfkcxr.dds,cxr.ddscYce.g’k
 .xxscshfncShfcwhg’kci.gkckhc .xxsc.cvyxdciphcwhrmg’kcdhorcshf,cwhcshf?”

“Srm,cYcwh,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrcmkhfkdsnc“Ylcyk’mcshf,cYc r.gncDhorcymc.
kygscmrrwckp.kcehdwgrmmce.gciykprx,cjfkcylckrgwrwc.gwcgfxkfxrwcygckpr
lhmkrxygvci.x kpchlc.gcphgrmkcpr.xkcncncn”

“Jfk,cLxrwwyrn”

“Jdhmmh mcygkhc.cldhirx,”cehgedfwrwcLxrwwyrcx.uywdsnc“Ip.kcYc r.gckh
m.scym,cdhorcihfdwceh rc.lkrxc .xxy.vrn”

“Ghgmrgmr!”

“Irdd,ckp.k’mckprci.scykcp.uurgrwcygc‘.cMheyrksc .kygvn’”

“Lxrwwyr,”cm.ywcRor,c“Ycxr.ddscwhg’kci.gkckhck.dzc.gsc hxrncIyddcshfcjr
.cwr.xc.gwctfmkcvhc.i.s?cY’orcvhkc.cdhkchlckpygzygvckhcwhn”

“Hp,ckpygzygv?”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,cy uxrmmrwnc“Xyvpkcph!”

“Kp.gzcshfcmhc fepn”

“Hp--rx--ghkc.kc.ddncIrdd,cuyu-uyun”

“Vhhw-jsrn”

“Mrrcshfcd.krx,cip.k?”

“Hlcehfxmr,chlcehfxmrn”

“Lygr!cIrdd,ckhhwdr-hh!”

.gwckprcPhgncLxrwwyr,cghkcydd-udr.mrw--lhxcykcmrr rwckhcpy ckp.kc.k
dhgvcd.mkcprcwrkrekrwcmyvgmchlc rdkygvcygckprcu.xkschlckprcmrehgw
u.xk--miyorddrwcxhfgwchgcpymcdhgvcdrvmc.gwcmk.xkrwclhxcph rn


§c3

Kprcdykkdrckhigchlc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmci.mc.cur.erlfdcmyvpkc.mcykcmdruk
ygckprcmfgncLhxckprclyxmkcky rcmygercLxrwwyrcp.wcdrlkcprx,cRorcjre. r
ehgmeyhfmchlc.cerxk.ygckx.gbfyddyksc.mcmprcrgkrxrwckprchdwcvxrscPyvp
Mkxrrk,cipyepci.mckprcergkxrchlckprcud.er’mcdylrc.gwckphfvpknc .xzrk
Jd.gwygvmcp.wc.ceh lhxkygvc.yxchlcp.oygvcjrrgcrq.ekdsckprcm. rclhx
ergkfxyrmncKxhfjdrmc yvpkcorqckprcvrgrx.kyhgmcykcphfmrw,cjfkckprscwyw
ghkcihxxsckp.kcdyeprgrwcepfxepciykpcykmcmkfxwsclhfx-mbf.xrckhirx,cghx
kphmrcxrw-xhhlrwcmphum,cghxckprc.vr-hdwcyggmciphmrcmrehgwcmkhxyrm
jfdvrwcmhceh lhxk.jdschfkchorxckprcu.or rgkmnc.mcRorci.dzrwcygcmdhi
 rwyk.kyhgckhi.xwmckprc“R mihxkpc.x m,”ckprcygkrgmrdscxrmurek.jdr
phmkrdxscipyepci.mcprxchjtrekyor,c.xepi.smc rkcprxcv.ar,churgygvciykpc.
uyekfxrmbfrcfgrqurekrwgrmmckhcmphicpr.xkrgygvcvdy umrmchlc.geyrgkcghhzm
.ddcehhdc.gwcvxrrgncKprxrci.mc.jhfkckprcPyvpcMkxrrkchlc .xzrkcJd.gwygvm
.cmfvvrmkyhgchlc.cmdf jrxygvce.kprwx.dcedhmrncGhkpygvci.mc hwrxgcyg
ykcrqerukckprc hoygv-uyekfxrcphfmr--.gwcrorgckp.kce.ddrwcykmrdlc.g
RdrekxyecKpr.kxr,c.gwci.mcyos-ehorxrwc.gwcmfx hfgkrwcjscmkhgrcv.jdrmn

Hgcmrehgwckphfvpkm,ckp.kcmk.kr rgkcymckhhcmirruygvncKprxrci.mchgrchkprx
 hwrxgcjfydwygvcygckprcPyvpcMkxrrk--TghncJ.gzm,cP.yxwxrmmrx,ckhciyk,
.gwcRorci.mctfmkceh ygvc.jxr.mkchlc xncJ.gzm’mcr uhxyf cghin

Ygc.gschxwyg.xscmfxxhfgwygvmckprmrcuxr ymrmcihfdwcp.orcjrrgc.ckhdrx.jds
.kkx.ekyorcmyvpk,cjfkcygc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmckprscirxrc.d hmkc.gcrsrmhxr;
.gwcRor,clygwygvcprxmrdlc.kckprcwhhx,ci.mct.xxrwchfkchlcprxcxrorxyrc.m
ylcmprcp.wcpr.xwc.cl.dmrcghkrcygc.cmhdr gc.gkpr ncMprci.mchgckprcuhygk
hlcpfxxsygvcu.mk,ciprgckprcwhhxchurgrwc.gwc.cmphxk,cmhdywclyvfxrce. r
hfknc.gwc.kckprcmyvpkchlckpymcmphxk,cmhdywclyvfxrcRorcmkhuurwc.jxfukdsn

Ykci.mciykpckprchjtrekchlcvrkkygvcpymcvxyaadrwcdhezmcedyuurwcyg
uxru.x.kyhgclhxckprcEhfgkscJ.ddckp.kcThmrupcZrrjdrcp.wceh rckhc xn
J.gzm’mcmphuc.mcmhhgc.mcprcp.wclygymprwcdfgepnc.mcprcr rxvrwcghicygkh
kprcPyvpcMkxrrkcprci.mcihgwrxygvcipscprcp.wcurx ykkrwc xncJ.gzmckh
lygympchllckprcthjciykpc.cprdyhkxhur-mergkrwcp.yx-i.mpncYkcmrr rwckh
 xncZrrjdrckp.kckprc.yxci.mcpr.osciykpcprdyhkxhur,c.gwcykce. rckhcpy 
mfwwrgdsckp.kcprdyhkxhurci.mc.cmergkcipyepcprc.di.smclhfgwcu.xkyefd.xds
hjtrekyhg.jdrn

Hxwyg.xydscThmrupcZrrjdrci.mc.eefmkh rwckhcmphic.gcyxhgclxhgkckh
p.yxwxrmmrxmciphckxyrwckhcygldyekcdhkyhgmcfuhgcpy ;c.gwckprcxr.mhgcpym
oyvyd.gercp.wcxrd.qrwcfgwrxckprc ygymkx.kyhgmchlcTghncJ.gzmci.mckp.k
kprcmrehgwcuhmk,cipyepc.xxyorwc.kckprce.mkdrc.kckprcdfgeprhgcphfx,
p.wcjxhfvpkcpy c.cud.ygkyorcdrkkrxclxh cpymcmkruw.fvpkrxcUpsddym--kpr
mrehgwcprcp.wcp.wclxh cprxcmygerckprchgrcipyepcp.wce.fmrwcpy ckh
k.ezdrcpymc .mkrxlfdciylrcygckprcm hzygv-xhh ncY  rwy.krdsc.lkrx
kprcehgedfmyhgchlcpymcjfmygrmmcwr.dciykpckprcPhgncLxrwwyr,cprcp.w
ixykkrgckhcUpsddymcygc.corygchlchuky ym cxrgwrxrwcvdhiygvcjscLxrwwyr’m
uxh ymrm,c.mmfxygvcprxckp.kc.kc.gsc h rgkcprcihfdwcjrcygc.cuhmykyhgckh
mrgwcprxckprckpxrrckphfm.gwcuhfgwmcipyepcmprcxrbfyxrwckhcedygepckpr
ufxep.mrchlckp.kcwxr. -l.x cygcDygehdgmpyxrncKhckpymcmprcp.wcxrudyrw
iykpckp.gzmnc.gwc.lkrxckp.kckprxrcp.wcjrrgc.cd.umrchlcw.smc.gwcmkydd
prcp.wcghkc .wrcvhhwncUpsddymci.mcjreh ygvcihxxyrw,c.gwcm.ywcmhcygcmyq
edhmrds-ixykkrgcu.vrmn

 xncZrrjdr,c.mcprcm.kcygckprcj.xjrx’mcep.yxcvhygvchorxckpymcdrkkrxcyg
pymc ygw,cp.wcvxh.grwcygcmuyxyk,cipydrcTghncJ.gzmciykpcvdr. ygvcrsrm
wywcux.ekye.ddscip.kcprcdyzrwciykpckprcprdyhkxhurcjhkkdrncGhkclhxckpr
lyxmkcky rcmygerckprclhx .kyhgchlckpryxcu.xkgrxmpyu,cThmrupcZrrjdrci.m
khx rgkrwciykpcwhfjkmc.mckhcpymciymwh cygcrgkxfmkygvc.ceh  ymmyhgcmh
wrdye.krc.mckprcufxdhygygvchlcpymciylr’mcwy. hgwcgrezd.erckhchgrchlcpym
grupricLxrwwyr’mczghigclrrjdrgrmmchlcygkrddrekncPrxr,cprckhdwcpy mrdl
fgp.uuyds,ci.mc.cthjchlcihxzcipyepcihfdwcp.orckrmkrwckprceh jygrw
.jydykyrmchlc.cmsgwye.krcehgmymkygvchlcEp.xdrmcUr.erc.gwckprcT. rm
Jxhkprxm,c.gwcprcp.wcufkcykcygckprcp.gwmchlc.cshfgvc .gciphcygc.dd
pymcdylrcp.wchgdschgercmphigcvrgfygrcygmuyx.kyhgc.gwcygyky.kyor--hg
kprchee.myhgciprgcprcp.wcu.xkrwcpymcp.yxcygckprc ywwdrc.kc.cky rciprg
.ddckprchkprxc r jrxmchlckprcJ.eprdhxm’cEdfjcirxrcjxfmpygvcykcmkx.yvpk
j.ezncKprc hxrc xncZrrjdrckphfvpkchlcLxrwwyr’mcep.germ,ckprcmdy  rx
kprsc.uur.xrwncJsckprcky rcTghncJ.gzmcp.wcxrdr.mrwcpy clxh ckprcmuhkkrw
.uxhgcprci.mckphxhfvpdscurmmy ymkye,c.gwc.mcprcu.mmrwchfkchlckprcwhhx,
“mhcurxlf rwckp.kckprciygwmcirxrcdhor-myezciykpcpy ,”cpymcrmky .krchl
pymcehddr.vfr’mc.jydykyrmci.mcxrwferwckhc.cuhygkciprxrcprcjrv.gckh
whfjkciprkprxckprcmkr.dygvchlc.c rxrc ydz-e.gci.mcghkcjrshgwcpymcmehurn
Mhcwrrudscy  rxmrwci.mcprcygckprmrcvdhh sckphfvpkmckp.kcRorcp.wckhce.dd
pymcg. rckiyercjrlhxrcprce. rchfkchlckpr n

“ ymmcP.ddyw.s?”cprcm.ywc.uhdhvrkye.ddsnc“Ycjrvcshfxcu.xwhgncYci.m
kpygzygvn”

Ror,ckphfvpckprscp.wcp.xwdscrqep.gvrwc.cihxwcmygercprxc.xxyo.dc.kckpr
e.mkdr,cp.wck.zrgc.cdyzygvckhc xncZrrjdr;c.gwcmprclrdkcygcehgmrbfrger
ghgrchlckprcr j.xx.mm rgkcipyepc yvpkcp.orcp.gwye.uurwcprxcygckpr
wymefmmyhgchlc.gcrqkxr rdscwrdye.krc .kkrxciykpc.ghkprxc .gncJscg.kfxr
wyxrekc.gwcmkx.yvpklhxi.xw,cmprce. rckhckprcuhygkc.kchgern

“E.gcshfcmu.xrc rc.c h rgkchxckih,c xncZrrjdr?”cmprcm.ywncMprcvd.gerw
.kckprcedhezchgckprcepfxepckhirxc.gwcm.ickp.kcmprcp.wc. udrcky rcjrlhxr
prxchigc.uuhygk rgknc“Yci.gkckhck.dzckhcshfc.jhfkcUpsddymn”c xncZrrjdr
trxzrwcpymcpr.wcj.ezcygc.mkhgymp rgk,c.gwckprcihxdwcjre. rcghymh rciykp
prdyhkxhurncYkci.mc.mcylckprcOhyerchlcEhgmeyrgercp.wcmfwwrgdsc.wwxrmmrw
py n

“Upsddym!”cprcv.murw,c.gwckprcdrkkrxcex.ezdrwcygcpymcjxr.mk-uhezrkn

“Shfxcmkruw.fvpkrxcUpsddymn”

“Whcshfczghicprx?”

“Mprci.mc scjrmkclxyrgwc.kcmephhdncYcp.wckr.ciykpcprxctfmkcjrlhxrcY
e. rckhckprce.mkdrn”

“Rqkx.hxwyg.xs!”cm.ywc xncZrrjdrn

.cefmkh rxcygcbfrmkchlc.cmp.orckpxfmkcpy mrdlcjrkirrgckpr c.gwcirgk
ygkhckprcmphuncKprsc horwc.i.sc.clricu.ermn

“Hlcehfxmrcylcshfcm.scykcymcghgrchlc scjfmygrmmcncncn”

“ scwr.xcshfgvcd.wscncncn”

“Irdd,cykc_ym_c scjfmygrmm,cjre.fmrcmpr’mc sclxyrgw,”cm.ywcRorclyx dsn
“ xncZrrjdr,cUpsddymckhdwc rcmprcp.wcixykkrgckhcshfc.jhfkcjfsygvckp.k
l.x ncIpscwhg’kcshfcprducprx?”

Kprc.lkrxghhgci.mci.x ,cjfkcghkci.x crghfvpckhc.eehfgkclhxckpr
 hymkgrmmchlc xncZrrjdr’mcjxhincPrcwxrichfkc.cd.xvrcp.gwzrxepyrlc.gw
 huurwcpymclhxrpr.wnc.cpfgkrwcdhhzci.mcygcpymcrsrmncKprcp.gwcipyepci.m
ghkcheefuyrwciykpckprcp.gwzrxepyrlcp.wcmhfvpkcpymcuhezrkc.gwci.mcjfms
x.kkdygvczrsmn

“Yci.gkckhcprducprxncYcihfdwcwhc.gskpygvcygckprcihxdwckhcprducprxn”

“Kprgcipscwhg’kcshf?”

“Y--Yc. cefxyhfmdscmykf.krwn”

“Srm,cUpsddymckhdwc rcmh rkpygvc.jhfkckp.kncYce.gcmrrckp.kcykcymc.
wyllyefdkcuhmykyhgclhxcshfncJfk,c xncZrrjdr,cmfxrds,cmfxrdscylcshf
e.gc .g.vrckhcvyorcLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhwckihckphfm.gwcuhfgwmckhcmk.xkc.
jhhz .zrx’mcjfmygrmmcncncn”

Prxcihxwmcirxrcefkcmphxkcjsc.cmkx.gvdrwcexsclxh cprxceh u.gyhgncMprrx
u.gyeci.mcygcpymcrsrmcghi,c.gwcygcpymcpr.xkc.gchorxiprd ygvcxrvxrkckp.k
prcp.wcrorxcjrrgclhhdcrghfvpckhcw.jjdrcygcexy rcygckprceh u.gschlc.
 rxrc.gy .krwck.dzygv- .epygrcdyzrcpymcgrupricLxrwwyrncKpymcvyxdczgri!
.gwcylcmprczgri,cphic .gschkprxmczgri?cKprcshfgvcy jreydrcp.wcuxhj.jds
j.jjdrwcpymcpywrhfmcmrexrkcygkhckprcr.xmchlcrorxscpf .gcjrygvcygckpr
ud.erciphcihfdwcdymkrgckhcpy n

“Prckhdwcshf!”cprcmk.  rxrwnc“Prck-khdwcshf!”

“SrmncTfmkcghin”

“Vhhmp!”c fkkrxrwc xncZrrjdrcjxhzrgdsn

Rorcmk.xrwc.kcpy cygcmfxuxymrncMprcehfdwcghkcfgwrxmk.gwckpymcr hkyhgn
Kprcp.gwzrxepyrl,c.lkrxc.cjfmscmrmmyhg,ci.mcdhirxrwcghi,c.gwcprci.m
dhhzygvc.kcprxcy udhxygvdsn

“Shfcp.org’kckhdwc.gshgr?”cprcexh.zrwcph.xmrdsn

“HlcehfxmrcghkncYcm.ywcYcp.wchgdscpr.xwchlcykctfmkcghin”

“Shfcihfdwg’kckrddc.gshgr?”

“IpscmphfdwcY?”

 xncZrrjdr’mcjxr.kp,cipyepcp.wcmrr rwckhcpy clhxc.c h rgkcvhgrclhx
rorx,cjrv.gckhcxrkfxgcky ywdsncXrdyrlclhxc.cmu.ercprdwcpy cwf jncIp.k
ghgmrgmr,cprcxrldrekrw,ckprmrcgrimu.urxmc.gwcurhudrck.dzrwc.jhfkckpr
 hwrxgcvyxdncYkci.mckpymcorxscjxh.w- ygwrwgrmmchlcprxm,ckhcipyepckprs
hjtrekrwcmhc.jmfxwds,ckp.kc .wrcprxc.cexr.kfxrchlcmfepcep.x ncMpr
 yvpkcjrp.orcygcerxk.ygci.smcygc.cl.mpyhgckp.kcihfdwcp.orcmphezrwcprx
vx.gw hkprx,cjfkcphiceh lhxkygvcykci.mckhclygwcprxce.d c.gwcfg horwcyg
kprcehgkr ud.kyhgchlc.ghkprx’mcexy rncPymcpr.xkci.x rwckhcRorn

“Shf’xrcihgwrxlfd!”cprcm.ywn

“Ip.kcwhcshfc r.g?”

“Hlcehfxmr,”c.xvfrwc xncZrrjdr,c“ykcymg’kcxr.ddscmkr.dygvn”

“Ip.k!”

“Ycmp.ddcjfsc sciylrc.ghkprxcgrezd.ern”

“Shfciydd--ip.k?”

“Mhcrorxskpygvciyddcjrc.ddcxyvpkncEhgmk.gerciyddcjrcurxlrekdscp.uus,
.gwcUpsddymciyddcp.orcprxc hgrs,c.gwcncncn”

Mh rkpygvcygcRor’mc.mkhgymprwcv.arcmrr rwckhcm ykrc xncZrrjdrn

“Whg’kcshfc_zghi_?”cprcjxhzrchlln

“Zghi?cZghicip.k?”

 xncZrrjdrcurxeryorwckp.kcprcp.wcixhgvrwcLxrwwyrncKprcshfgvc.mmcp.w
jrrgc.clhhdcrorgckhc rgkyhgckprc hgrsckhckpymcvyxd,cjfkcprcp.wc.k
dr.mk,cykcmrr rw,cmkhuurwcmphxkchlcwymedhmygvckprcrgkyxrcudhknc.g
hsmkrx-dyzrcxrmrxorce. rcfuhgcpy n

“Ghkpygv,cghkpygv,”cprcm.ywcp.mkydsnc“Lhxvrkcip.kcYci.mcvhygvckhcm.sn
Irdd,cYc fmkcjrcvhygv,cYc fmkcjrcvhygvn”

Rorcedfkeprwciydwdsc.kcpymcxrkxr.kygvcmdrrorncFgygkrddyvyjdrckphfvp
pymcihxwmcp.wcjrrg,chgrcmrgkrgercp.wceh rcph rckhcprx,ckprchgrc.jhfk
Upsddymcp.oygvcprxc hgrsncYkci.mcghcky rclhxcp.dl- r.mfxrmncMprcvx.jjrw
py n

“ xncZrrjdr,”cmprcexyrwcfxvrgkdsnc“Ycwhg’kczghicip.kcshfc r.g,cjfkcshf
irxrctfmkcvhygvckhcm.scmh rkpygvcipyepcmhfgwrwcncncnc xncZrrjdr,cwh
kxfmkc rncY’ cUpsddym’mcjrmkclxyrgw,c.gwcylcshf’orckphfvpkchfkc.gsci.s
hlcprduygvcprxcYciympcshfcihfdwckrddc rcncncncShfc fmkckrddc rncYc yvpk
jrc.jdrckhcprducncncn”

 xncZrrjdr,c.mcmprcjrv.gcprxcjxhzrgcmurrep,cp.wcjrrgcrgwr.ohfxygvciykp
wruxre.khxsckfvmckhcwymrgv.vrcpymceh.kclxh cprxcvx.muncJfkcghicpr
er.mrwckhcmkxfvvdrncKphmrcwhfjkmchlcLxrwwyr’mcrllyeyrges,cipyepcp.w
kxhfjdrwcpy cygcTghncJ.gzm’mcep.yx,cmkyddcdygvrxrwncPymchuygyhgckp.k
Lxrwwyrci.mcjfkc.cjxhzrgcxrrwcp.wcghkcep.gvrwncYgwrrw,cykcp.wcvxhign
Prcdhhzrwc.kcRorncPrcdhhzrwc.kcprxcmr.xepygvdsncYgkhcprxcudr.wygv
rsrmcprcwyxrekrwc.cmk.xrckp.kcmhfvpkckhcuxhjrcprxcmhfd,c.gwcm.ickprxr
phgrmks,cms u.kps,c.gw--jrkkrxcmkydd--ygkrddyvrgerncPrc yvpkcp.orcmkhhw
.gwcv.arwcygkhcLxrwwyr’mclympscrsrmclhxcirrzmciykphfkcwymehorxygvc.
kykprchlcmfepcygkrddyvrgerncPymc ygwci.mc .wrcfuncKpymcvyxdci.mc.g
.ddsnc.cvyxdchlcw.mpc.gwcoyvhfxnc.cvyxdcihxkpc.ckphfm.gwcLxrwwyrm--ghk,
phirorx,cxrldrekrwc xncZrrjdr,ckp.kckp.kci.mcm.sygvc fepncPrcprmyk.krw
ghcdhgvrxn

“Yk’mcdyzrckpym,”cm.ywc xncZrrjdrn


§c4

Kprcyglhx .kyhg,c.fkphxyk.kyordscehgorsrwckhcpy cwfxygvcjxr.zl.mk
jscD.wscEhgmk.ger,ckp.kcprci.mcmeprwfdrwckp.kcgyvpkckhcxr.wcmrdrek
u.mm.vrmclxh cX.dmkhgc eKhww’mc_MhgvmchlcMbf.dhx_ckhckprcrgkyxr
phfmr-u.xksc.mmr jdrwcygckprcjyvcwx.iygv-xhh ,cp.wceh rc.mc.ceh udrkr
mfxuxymrckhcUm ykp,c.gwckhcpymclrddhi-vfrmkm--mfepchlckpr c.mcirxr
shfgvc.gwchlckprcmhfddrmmcmrq--.mc.cmphezclxh cipyepckprsclhfgwcyk
p.xwckhcx.ddsncKxfr,ckprscp.wcjrlhxrcghicv.kprxrwcygc.co.vfrcmhxk
hlci.sckp.kcprci.mchgrchlckphmrcdykrx.xsclrddhim,cjfkcmhcghx .dc.gw
rgv.vygvcp.wckprsclhfgwcpymciphdrc .ggrxc.gwc.uur.x.gerckp.kcykcp.w
grorxcheefxxrwckhckpr ckp.kcprcehger.drwc.gskpygvcfucpymcmdrrorc.m
drkp.dc.mc_MhgvmchlcMbf.dhx_nc. hgvckprmrc r jrxmchlckprcshfgvrxcmrk
kprcehgmrgmfmchlchuygyhgci.mckp.kcykci.mc.cjykckpyez,c.gwckp.kc.kcmfep
.cuxyercrorgckprcd.oympcphmuyk.dykschlcJd.gwygvmci.mcme.xerdscihxkp
p.oygvncHgdsckphmrciphcp.wcoymykrwckprce.mkdrcjrlhxrcwfxygvckprcrx.
hlcprxcd.wsmpyu’mcldyxk.kyhgciykpc.xkcehfdwcp.orcjrrgcwrmexyjrwc.m
xrmyvgrwncKprmrcmkhfkcpr.xkmc.xvfrwckp.kcipydrckpymcd.krmkcjdymkrxci.m
uxhj.jdscvhygvckhcjrcuxrkkscj.w,cprcehfdwcp.xwdscjrcihxmrckp.gckpr
ep.uuyrciphcp.wcdrekfxrwchgcKprhmhupscd.mkcGhor jrx,c.gwc fmkc.d hmkchl
grermmykscjrcjrkkrxckp.gckprcjyxwciphcwfxygvckprcMpyldrscx.er-irrzcp.w
.kkr ukrwcygc.ckih-phfxcwymehfxmrckhcehgorxkckpr ckhcorvrk.xy.gym n

Um ykpcpy mrdlcxrv.xwrwckprceh ygvchxwr.dciykpcrbf.gy yksncPrci.mcghk
hgrchlckphmrciph ckprcuxhmurekchlcmur.zygvcygcufjdyec.lldyekmciykp
grxohfmcphxxhxncPrcdyzrwckprcmhfgwchlcpymchigcohyer,c.gwcgyvpk,ciprgcyk
e. r,clhfgwcpy ce.d dsceprrxlfdncPrcdymkrgrwcehgkrgkrwdsckhckprc fx fx
hlckprcwx.iygv-xhh clyddygvcfuc.mcprcmkxhddrwchgckprcmk.x-dykckrxx.er,
m hzygvc.cd.mkceyv.xrkkrcjrlhxrcwfksce.ddrwcpy crdmriprxrnc.gwciprg,
mh rclrics.xwmc.i.s,cmr.krwchgckprckrxx.erci.ddcv.aygvchfkcygkhckpr
ordorkcw.xzgrmm,cprcurxeryorwcRorcP.ddyw.s,cpymcmrgmrchlcirdd-jrygv
jre. rc.efkrn

.ddcw.scprcp.wcjrrgcehgmeyhfmchlc.cvxhiygvcwrmyxrclhxc.ghkprxchlckphmr
ehmscep.kmciykpcRorcipyepcp.wcwhgrcmhc fepckhc .zrcdylrc.vxrr.jdrclhx
py cwfxygvcpymcmk.sc.kcJd.gwygvmncPrxcuxrtfwyer--ipyepcprcwrudhxrw--yg
l.ohfxchlcwhygvc.cerxk.ygc. hfgkchlcihxzckhctfmkylscprxcm.d.xs,cp.w
zrukcpy cwfxygvckprc hxgygvc.i.sclxh ckprcdykkdrcxhh chllckprcdyjx.xs
iprxrcmprci.mcihgkckhcmykce.k.dhvfygvcjhhzm;c.gwciprgcprcp.wcvhgrckprxr
.lkrxcdfgepcprcp.wclhfgwcykcr uksnc.mcprc.uuxh.eprwcprxcghi,cprci.m
kpygzygvcudr.m.gkdschlc.ddckphmrcwrdyvpklfdci.dzm,ckphmrcrqerddrgk
wxylkygvmchgckprcd.zr,c.gwckphmrceprrxscehgorxm.kyhgmcipyepcp.wcvhgr
khcer rgkcpymcehgoyekyhgckp.kchlc.ddcuhmmyjdrcvyxdmcmprci.mckprchgds
uhmmyjdrchgrncYkcmrr rwckhcpy ckp.kcygc.wwykyhgckhcjrygvcjr.fkylfdcmpr
jxhfvpkchfkc.ddckp.kci.mcjrmkcygcpy chlcygkrddrekc.gwcmhfdncKp.kcym
khcm.s,cmprcdrkcpy ck.dzchlkrgrxc.gwcdhgvrxckp.gc.gscvyxdcprcp.wcrorx
zghign

Ykcmkxfezcpy c.mc.cdykkdrcefxyhfmckp.kcmprc .wrcghc horckhcvxrrkcpy n
Mprcxr .ygrwc.uu.xrgkdscfg.i.xrchlcpymc.uuxh.epnc.gwcsrkckprcmf  rx
gyvpkci.mcghkchlcmfepcwrgmyksc.mckhcpywrcpy clxh coyri--.gw,crorg
ylcmprcehfdwcghkcmrrcpy ,cmprc fmkcfgwhfjkrwdscp.orcpr.xwcpy ;clhx
hgdsc.c h rgkcjrlhxrcprcp.wckxyuurwciykpcmh rcoyhdrgerchorxc.cd.xvr
ldhirx-uhk,chgrchlc.cxhichlcmyqkrrgcipyepc.gvfmc e.ddymkrx,cwhfjkdrmm
lhxcmh rcvhhwcufxuhmr,cp.wcud.erwcygckprcl.yxi.sckp.kc.lkrxghhgn

“.cudr.m.gkcgyvpk,”cprcm.yw,cmr.kygvcpy mrdlcvx.erlfddscjrmywrcprxchg
kprci.ddn

Mprckfxgrwcprxcpr.wclhxc.cjxyrlcygmk.gk,c.gw,cp.oygvckfxgrwcyk,cdhhzrw
.i.sc.v.ygn

“Srm,”cmprcm.ywn

Prxc .ggrxci.mcghkcrllfmyor,cjfkcUm ykpcurxmrorxrwn

“Kprcmk.xm,”cprcuxherrwrw,cygwye.kygvckpr ciykpc.czygwdscsrkcghk
u.kxhgymygvci.orchlckprcp.gwnc“Jxyvpk,ckiygzdygv,c.gw--ylcYc .scm.s
mh--x.kprxcgr.kdsc.xx.gvrwncIprgcYci.mc.c rxrcd.w,cmh rhgrciphmrcg. r
Yce.gghkcxrehddrekck.fvpkc rcipyepci.mcHxyhgnc.dmhc .xm,cOrgfm,c.gw
TfuykrxncKpymckphxhfvpdscfmrdrmmcepfgzchlczghidrwvrcp.m,cYc. cp.uusckh
m.s,cdhgvcmygercu.mmrwclxh c sc ygwncPhirorx,cYc. cygc.cuhmykyhgckh
mk.krckp.kckp.kciyvvdsckpygvcfuckprxrc.cdykkdrckhckprcxyvpkcymcZygv
Ep.xdrm’mcI.ygn”

“Srm?”

“Srm,cygwrrw,cYc.mmfxrcshfn”cYkcmkxfezcUm ykpckp.kc.mkxhgh sci.mcghk
vxyuuygvcpymc.fwyrger,cmhcprckxyrwcKx.ordnc“Ycpr.x,”cprcm.yw,c“shfcirgk
khc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmckpymc.lkrxghhgn”

“Srmn”

“.gc.kkx.ekyorcmrkkdr rgkn”

“Srmn”

Kprxrci.mc.cu.fmrncUm ykpcxr horwcpymc hghedrc.gwcuhdymprwcyk
kphfvpklfddsncKprcmf  rxcgyvpkcmrr rwckhcpy ckhcp.orck.zrgchgc.ckhfep
hlcepyddn

“Ip.kcYcdyzrc.jhfkckprcRgvdympcxfx.dcwymkxyekm,”cprcirgkchg,c“ym
kp.kciprgckprc.fkphxykyrmcp.orclygymprwcjfydwygvc.cud.erckprscmkhun
Mh riprxrc.jhfkckprcxryvgchlcPrgxsckprcRyvpkp,cYcy .vygrckp.kckpr
 .mkrx- .mhgcv.orckprclyg.dcphfmrc.cu.kciykpcpymckxhirdc.gwcm.yw,
‘Irdd,cjhsm,ckp.k’mc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmn’cKhcipyepcpymc.mmymk.gkmcghcwhfjk
.mmrgkrwciykpc .gsc.cpr.xksc‘Vx.  rxes!’c.gwc‘Y’l.ezygm!’ckprmrcjrygv
rqudrkyormckhcipyepckprscirxrc fepc.wwyekrwnc.gwckprscirgkc.i.sc.gw
drlkcyk,c.gwcghjhwscp.mckhfeprwcykcmygernc.gwcY,clhxchgr,ckphxhfvpds
.uuxhorncYckpygzcykc .zrmckprcud.ercmhhkpygvncWhg’kcshf?”

“Srmn”

.mcl.xc.mckprcw.xzgrmmcihfdwcurx yk,cUm ykpcmfjtrekrwcRorckhc.g
ygbfyxygvcvd.gerckpxhfvpcpymc hghedrncKpymci.mc.cmkx.gvrcgri
 hhwcygcipyepcprcp.wclhfgwcprxncPykprxkh,ckphfvpcmprcp.wc.di.sm
rgwr.xrwcprxmrdlckhcpy cjscurx ykkygvcpy ckprc .thxcuhxkyhgchl
kprcwy.dhvfr,ckprscp.wcfmf.ddscmudykcehgorxm.kyhgmchgc.kcdr.mkc.
mrorgks-lyor--kirgks-lyorcj.mymnc.gwckphfvpcykcvx.kylyrwcUm ykpckhcjr
.ddhirwckhcwrdyorxc.c hghdhvfrciprgck.dzygvciykpc hmkcurhudr,cprclhfgw
Rorc hxrceh u.gyhg.jdrciprgcygc.cmdyvpkdscep.kkyrxcorygn

“.xrcshfceh ygvcygckhcpr.xc rcxr.w?”cprc.mzrwn

“Ghn”

Ykci.mc.cep.gvrclxh c“Srm,”cjfkckp.kci.mckprcjrmkckp.kcehfdwcjrcm.ywchl
yknc.cvhhwcwr.dchlcwymehfx.vr rgkci.mc.di.smcxrbfyxrwckhcw. ucUm ykp,
jfkcprcehfdwcghkcprduclrrdygvc.cmdyvpkcwy ygfkyhgchlcjfhs.gesncPhirorx,
prczrukchgckxsygvn

“Shfcmphicshfxcfmf.dcmkrxdygvcvhhwcmrgmr,”cprcm.ywc.uuxhoygvdsnc“.
me.dyrxc rkphwchlcu.mmygvckprcmergkrwcmf  rxcgyvpkcehfdwcp.xwdscjr
pykcfuhgn”cPrc.j.gwhgrwckprckhuyechlckprcxr.wygvncYkcwywcghkcvxyun
Kp.kci.mc .gylrmkncYkcd.ezrwc.uur.dnc“Ycirgkckhc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmckpym
.lkrxghhg,ckhh,”cprcm.ywnc“Eh x.wrcJ.qkrxcyglhx rwc rckp.kcshfcp.wcvhgr
kpykprx,cmhcYcirgkc.lkrxcshfncGhkcjrygvc.jdrckhclygwcshf,cYckfxgrwcyg
lhxcp.dlc.gcphfxc.kckprcdhe.dc hoygv-uyekfxrcu.d.erncKprscirxrcmphiygv
RuymhwrcRdrorgchlc.cmrxy.dncYkcehgedfwrwciykpckprcprxhygr,czywg.uurwcjs
Ygwy.gm,cmkxrkeprwchgckprcm.exylyey.dc.dk.xciykpckprcpyvp-uxyrmkc .zygv
u.mmrmc.kcprxciykpc.czgylrncKprcprxhc r.gipydrcp.wcmk.xkrwckhcedy jc.
x.kprxcg.mkscuxreyuyerchgcpymci.sckhckprcxrmefrncKprclyg.dcuyekfxrci.m
.cedhmr-fuchlcpymclygvrxmcmdyuuygvcmdhidschllc.cxhezncRuymhwrcKirdor
grqkcirrzn”

Rorcdhhzrwchfkcygkhckprcgyvpkciykphfkcmur.zygvn

“Y’ c.lx.ywcykcihg’kcrgwcp.uuyds,”cm.ywcUm ykpciykpc.cmyvpnc“Yckpygz
pr’ddcm.orcprxn”

Rorckfxgrwchgcpy ciykpc.c rg.eygvc.jxfukgrmmn

“Mp.ddcYckrddcshfcipscYcirgkckhc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmckpymc.lkrxghhg?”cmpr
m.ywn

“Wh,”cm.ywcUm ykpcehxwy.ddsnc“Ykcymcghkclhxc rckhcexykyeymr,cjfkc.m
.c .kkrxchlcl.ekcYci.mcx.kprxcihgwrxygvciprgcshfcirxrcvhygvckhcjrvyg
krddygvc rc.ddc.jhfkcshfxc.worgkfxrmncYcp.orcjrrgc hghuhdymygvckpr
ehgorxm.kyhgn”

“Ycirgkckhc rrkcEsgkpy.n”

Um ykp’mc hghedrclrddchfkchlcpymcrsrc.gwcmifgvctrxzydschgcykmcehxwncPr
i.mcghkcr.mydscwymehgerxkrw,cjfkckpymcfgrqurekrwcuyrerchlcyglhx .kyhg,
eh ygvchgckhuchlcprxcurefdy.xc .ggrx,cfgwhfjkrwdsct.xxrwcpy ncPr
lhxrm.icwyllyefdkyrm,c.gwchgerc.v.ygclhfgwcpy mrdlckpygzygvcp.xw
kphfvpkmchlckpymcehglhfgwrwclr .drciphczrukcjhjjygvcfuciprgcdr.mk
rqurekrwncPhicmy udrcdylrcihfdwcp.orcjrrg,cprc fmrwciymklfdds,cp.w
X.dmkhgc eKhwwchgdscp.wckprcvhhwcmrgmrckhcxr .ygc.cj.eprdhxn

“Hp,cEsgkpy.?”cprcm.ywn

“Srm,cEsgkpy.,”cm.ywcRorncKprcygehgorgyrgkc xmnc eKhwwcuhmmrmmrwc.
Epxymky.gcg. rc.w yx.jdsc.w.ukrwclhxcjrygvcpymmrwcjrkirrgcedrgeprw
krrkp,c.gwcRorcpymmrwcykcygckpymcl.mpyhgcghincYkcjre. rcroywrgkckh
Um ykpckp.kckprcwr.xcvyxdci.mcygc.cehgwykyhgchlcp.xwdscmfuuxrmmrwclfxs
.gwckp.kckxhfjdrci.mceh ygvcpymci.sncPrcjx.erwcpy mrdlckhc rrkcykn

“Wyxrekdsc.lkrxcircp.wckp.kck.dzchgckprcd.zr,ckprcw.scYc.xxyorw,”
ehgkygfrwcRorckrxmrds,c“YcixhkrckhcEsgkpy.,ckrddygvcprxckhceh rcprxrc.k
hgerc.gwc rrkc rc.kckprc‘R mihxkpc.x m’cncncn”

“YgckprcPyvpcMkxrrk,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“YczghicykncVhhwcjrrxn”

“Ip.k!”

“Ycm.ywckprscmrddcvhhwcjrrxcncncn”

“Grorxc ygwc.jhfkckprcjrrx,”cexyrwcRorn

“Gh,cghncYc rxrdsc rgkyhgrwcykcygcu.mmygvn”

“.kcdfgepckh-w.scYcvhkc.cdrkkrxclxh cprxcm.sygvckp.kcmprcihfdwcjrckprxr
kpymc.lkrxghhgncMhcYcpfxxyrwchllncYci.gkrw----”cRorcd.fvprwc.cphddhi,
 yxkpdrmmcd.fvpchlc.ce.dyjxrcipyepcrorgckprcPhgncLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhw
ihfdwcp.orclhfgwcjrshgwcpymcuhirxm,c.gwcprci.mc.cmurey.dymk--“Yci.gkrw
khckxsckhcjxygvcshfckihckhvrkprxncYckphfvpkckp.kcylcYcehfdwcmrrcprxc.gw
p.orc.ck.dzciykpcprxckp.kcshfc yvpkcjreh rcxrehgeydrwn”

Um ykp,ckphfvpchjmrmmrwciykpc.cwymbfyrkygvclrrdygvckp.kcprci.mclyvpkygv
ygckprcd.mkcwykep,cufddrwcpy mrdlckhvrkprxcmfllyeyrgkdsckhcu.kcprxcp.gw
.mcykcd.scjrmywrcpy chgckprci.ddcdyzrcmh rcipykrc.gwclx.vydrcldhirxn

“Kp.kci.mcdyzrcshf,”cprc fx fxrwnc“Kp.kci.mc.gc.ekcihxkpschlcshfxcvxr.k
pr.xkncJfkcYclr.xckp.kckprcxylkcjrkirrgcEsgkpy.c.gwc smrdlcp.mcxr.eprw
mfepcwy rgmyhgmcncncn”

Rorcwxricprxcp.gwc.i.sncMprcmifgvcxhfgw,c.gwckprcj.kkrxschlcprx
ygwyvg.gkcv.arcx.zrwcpy clfxyhfmdsn

“Ycm.icEsgkpy.,”cmprcm.yw,c“.gwcmprckhdwc rckp.kcprxcpfmj.gwci.mcyg
U.xymn”

“Ghi,cphicygckprcihxdw,”cm.ywcUm ykp,cmkxfvvdygvcjx.ordscjfkciykpc.
vxhiygvcmrgmrckp.kckprscirxrceh ygvchorxckprcud.krc.cjykckhhcl.mkclhx
py ,c“phicygckprcihxdwcwywcmprcvrkc.gcywr.cdyzrckp.k?”

“Whcshfcxr.ddsci.gkckhczghi?”

“Ycwh,cygwrrwn”

“KprgcY’ddckrddcshfncMprcvhkckprcywr.cjre.fmrcmprcp.wcp.wc.cdrkkrxclxh 
py ,cjrvvygvcprxckhcthygcpy ckprxrncMprcp.wctfmkclygymprwckrddygvc r
kpym,ciprgcYce.fvpkcmyvpkchlcshfclxh ckprcyggciygwhi,ci.dzygvc.dhgv
kprcPyvpcMkxrrkncYcuhygkrwcshfchfkckhcEsgkpy.,c.gwcmprcm.ywcmprcp.w
grorxcmrrgcshfcjrlhxrcygcprxcdylrn”

“Ih rgcmhhgclhxvrk,”cmyvprwcUm ykpn

“KprchgdscrqefmrcYce.gclygwclhxcshf,”cmkhx rwcRorcygc.coyjx.gk
fgwrxkhgrcgrermmyk.krwcjsckprcl.ekckp.kcmh rjhwscp.wctfmkcr rxvrwclxh 
kprce.mkdrcwhhxc.gwckprscghcdhgvrxcp.wckprckrxx.erckhckpr mrdorm,c“ym
kp.kcshf’xrc .wncIprgcYckpygzchlc.ddcshfcm.ywckhc rc.jhfkcuhhxcEsgkpy.
hgckprcd.zrckp.kc.lkrxghhg,ciprgcYckpygzchlc.ddckprcms u.kpscYci.mkrw
hgcshfcncncn”

“Ghkci.mkrw,”cehxxrekrwcUm ykpclyx dsnc“Ykci.mcjscghc r.gmci.mkrwncYk
 .wrc rcdhorcshf--ylcuhmmyjdr--rorgc hxrn”

Rorcp.wcmfuuhmrwckp.kcmprcp.wcr j.xzrwchgc.ckyx.wrcipyepcihfdwcd.mk
fgkydcmprcp.wcihxzrwchllcprxcygwyvg.kyhgc.gwclrdkceh uhmrwc.v.yg,cjfk
kpymcrqkx.hxwyg.xscxr .xzcme.kkrxrwckprckpxr.wchlcprxcp.x.gvfrcmh
phurdrmmdsckp.kc.ddcmprcehfdwcwhci.mckhcmk.xrc.kcpy cygc. .arwcmydrgern

“Ih .gdscygkfykyhg,”cuxherrwrwcUm ykpcvx.ords,c“iyddcp.orckhdwcshfcdhgv
rxrckpymckp.kcYcdhorcshfciykpc.clrxohfxcipyepciykpc scuhhxcohe.jfd.xs
Yce.gghkcphurckhcrquxrmmncKxfr,c.mcshfc.xrc.jhfkckhcm.s,circp.orczghig
r.epchkprxcjfkc.cmphxkcky r,c.mcky rcymc r.mfxrwncJfkcip.kchlckp.k?”

Rorcx.ymrwcprxcrsrjxhimncPrxcohyerci.mcehdwc.gwcphmkydrn

“.lkrxcip.kcp.mcp.uurgrw,”cmprcm.yw,c“YcmfuuhmrcYchfvpkcghkckhcjr
mfxuxymrwc.kclygwygvcshfce.u.jdrchlc.gskpygv,cjfk--.xrcshfcxr.dds
ephhmygvckpymc h rgkckh--khcuxhuhmrckhc r?”

“Khcr udhsc.cl.ohfxykrcihxwchlcshfxchig--srmn”

“.gwcshfcrqurekc rckhck.zrcshfcmrxyhfmds?”

“.mmfxrwdscghkncYcdhhzcfuhgckprcuxrmrgkcwymedhmfxrcufxrdsc.mc.cmyvpkygv
mphkncShfc .scxrv.xwcyk,cylcshfciydd,c.mc.czygwchlclhx .dcuxhed. .kyhgn
Yciympcmy udsckhcvhchgcxrehxwc.mc.gc.muyx.gkckhcshfxcp.gwncYci.gkcshf,
ylcshfciyddcjrcmhcvhhw,ckhc .zrc.cghkrchlc scihxwmc.gwcvyorckpr c.
kphfvpkclxh cky rckhcky rnc.mcEh x.wrcEhhkrm--.cshfgvclxyrgwchlc ygr
iph cshfcp.orcghkcsrkc rk--ihfdwcm.s,c‘Eprichgckpr n’”

“Ycncncn”

“Ykcymcuhmmyjdr,”cehgkygfrwcUm ykp,c“kp.kcjd.ezc h rgkmciyddceh rckh
shf--lhxckprsceh rckhc.ddchlcfm,crorgckprcmfggyrmk--iprgcshfciyddclygw
shfxmrdlcm.sygv,c‘Ghjhwscdhormc r!’cHgcmfepchee.myhgmcYcmphfdwcdyzr
shfckhc.ww,c‘Gh,cYc. cixhgvncKprxrc_ym_cmh rjhwsciphcdhormc rn’c.k
lyxmk,cykc .scjr,ckp.kcxrldrekyhgciyddcjxygvcjfkcme.gkcj.d ncVx.wf.dds,
phirorx,c.mckprcw.smcvhcjsc.gwcirc.xrcehgmk.gkdsckhvrkprxc.gwc scg.kfxr
fglhdwmcykmrdlcjrlhxrcshfcdyzrckprcurk.dmchlcmh rcky ywcldhirxcjrgr.kp
kprcx.smchlckprcmfgcncncn”

Ror’mcrsrmchurgrwciywrxncMprcp.wcmfuuhmrwcprxmrdlcyge.u.jdrchlclfxkprx
.mkhgymp rgk,cjfkcmprcm.ickp.kcmprcp.wcjrrgc ymk.zrgn

“Shfcmfxrdsc.xrg’kcwxr. ygvchlcmk.sygvchgcprxrc_ghi_?”cmprcv.murwn

“ hmkcwreywrwdsncIpscghk?”

“Jfk--jfkcip.kcymckhcuxrorgkc rckrddygvcrorxsjhwsckp.kcshfc.xrcghkc xn
 eKhww?”

“Shfxcmirrk,cvrgrxhfmcg.kfxr,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Shfxcjyvcpr.xkncShfx
.gvrdyeclhxjr.x.gern”

“Hp!”

“Ehgmywrxygvckp.kcYchgdsce. rcprxrc.mc eKhww--.gwcylcshfcp.wcmrrg
py cshfcihfdwcxr.dymrckp.kcprcymcghkc.curxmhgclhxciph ckprc .g
hlcmrgmyjydyksc.gwcxrlygr rgkcihfdwcdyvpkdsc.ddhicpy mrdlckhcjr
 ymk.zrg--Ycm.scehgmywrxygvckp.kcYchgdsckhhzchgckprcthjchlcfgwrxmkfws
mhc.mckhcvrkckhckprce.mkdrc.gwcjrcgr.xcshf,cYcp.xwdsckpygzckp.kcshf
iyddcjrc.jdrckhcjxygvcshfxmrdlckhcvrkc rcmdfgvchfkncShfc fmkckxsckh
fgwrxmk.gwcip.kcp.uurgrwncIprgcDhxwcR mihxkpcmk.xkrwcep.kkygvciykp
 rcfgwrxckprcy uxrmmyhgckp.kcYci.mcEh x.wrc eKhww,cYcrgehfx.vrwckpr
 ymk.zrcufxrdsciykpckprczygwdscygkrgkyhgchlcufkkygvcpy c.kcpymcr.mrn
Rorgciprgcprcyglhx rwc rckp.kcprci.mcrqurekygvc rckhceh rcwhigckh
Jd.gwygvmciykpcpy chgckprclyorch’edhezckx.yg,cykcgrorxcheefxxrwckh
 rckhcwhcmhncYkci.mchgdsciprgcYcm.icshfck.dzygvckhcpy cygckprcmkxrrk
.gwcprcxror.drwckprcl.ekckp.kcshfcirxrc.jhfkckhcrgthscpymcphmuyk.dyks
kp.kcYcwreywrwckp.kckprxrci.mcghchkprxcehfxmrchurgckhckprc .gchl
muyxykncEhgmywrx!cKiyerckp.kcw.scshfcp.wcu.mmrwchfkchlc scdylr-- .scY
m.sck.zygvckprcmfgmpygrciykpcshf?--.gwcYcjrv.gckhclr.xcshfc yvpkcu.mm
hfkchlcykclhxcrorxncMh,cdh.kpckphfvpcYci.mckhceh  ykckprcmhdreym chl
ud.gkygvc smrdlcygckpymcp.uuscph rcfgwrxcl.dmrcuxrkrgerm,cYcehfdwcmrr
ghchkprxci.snc.gwcprxrcYc. !”

“Shfc_ fmk_cjrc .w!”

“Irdd,c.mcYci.mcm.sygv,ckprcw.smciyddcvhcjs,cshfciyddcp.orc. udr
huuhxkfgykschlcmkfwsygvc scurxmhg.dyks,c.gwcykcymcbfykrcuhmmyjdrckp.k
ygcwfrcmr.mhgckprcdhorchlc.gcphgrmkcpr.xkc .scy uxrmmcshfc.mcihxkp
p.oygvncYc .sc.wwckp.kcYcp.orcdhorwcshfcmygerckprc h rgkciprgcYcm.i
shfcmprdkrxygvclxh ckprcx.ygcfgwrxckp.kc.igygvcygcWhorxcMkxrrk,c.gwcY
xre.ddcm.sygvc.mc fepckhcEh x.wrcI.dwrxiyezciprgcprci.mcep.kkygvciykp
 rcmh rcmphxkcky rcd.krxchgckprcmfjtrekchlcpymcf jxrdd.ncYcwhcghkcuxrmm
shfclhxc.gc.gmirxcghicncncn”

“Ycmphfdwcphurcghk!”

“Yc rxrdscm.sc‘Kpygzcykchorxn’cYkcymcghkpygvckhce.fmrcshfc rgk.d
wymkxrmmncHkprxc rgcdhorcshfncLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhwcdhormcshfncTfmkc.wwc r
khckprcdymkncKp.kcymc.ddcYc.mznc fmrchgc rclxh cky rckhcky rncXrldrek
kp.kcYc .scjrc.gc.ebfyxrwck.mkrncShfcuxhj.jdscwywcghkcdyzrchdyormckpr
lyxmkcky rcshfck.mkrwckpr ncGhicshfcuxhj.jdscwhncVyorc rckprcm. r
ep.gercshfcihfdwc.gchdyorncEhgmywrx,c.dmh,cphicdykkdrcshfc.ekf.ddscp.or
.v.ygmkc rncIp.k,cygwrrw,cwhrmcykc. hfgkckh,ciprgcshfceh rckhcrq. ygr
ykcg.xxhids?c.ddcshfcp.orc.v.ygmkc rcymckprcl.ekckp.kcYc. cghkcX.dmkhg
 eKhwwncKpygzcphiceh u.x.kyordsclricurhudrc_.xr_cX.dmkhgc eKhwwncDrk
shfxc rwyk.kyhgmcuxherrwc.dhgvckprmrcdygrmc.gwcncncn”

Prcjxhzrchll,clhxc.kckpymc h rgkckprcygwyoywf.dciphcp.wceh rchfkchl
kprclxhgkcwhhxc.cmphxkcipydrcj.ezcdhh rwcjrmywrckpr ,c.gwckprcvdygkchl
mk.xdyvpkchgcvd.mmcxror.drwcpy c.mckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxn

“Rorxsjhwscymci.ykygv,c xnc eKhww,”cm.ywckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxncPrcmuhzr
kprcg. r,c.mc.di.sm,ciykpc.cerxk.ygcm.xwhgyecr up.mymn

“Hlcehfxmr,”cm.ywcUm ykpc.ll.jds,c“hlcehfxmrncYci.mclhxvrkkygvncYciydd
vrkckhcihxzc.kchgerncShfc.xrcbfykrcmfxrcshfcwhcghkciympckhcpr.xc.
mefkkdrlfdchlc hwrxgcuhrkxs,c ymmcP.ddyw.s?”

“Bfykrcmfxrn”

“.gwcsrkcrorgcghi,cmhchfxcvrgy.dclxyrgwcprxrcyglhx mcfm,c.cjroschl
shfkpc.gwcjr.fkscymcexhiwygvckprcwx.iygv-xhh ,c.vhvclhxckprckxr.kn
Irdd,cirdd!cYkcymckprmrcmkx.gvrced.mpygvmchlcurxmhg.dck.mkrcipyep
ehgmkykfkrcip.kcirce.ddcDylrncYckpygzcYciyddcixykrc.cuhr c.jhfkcyk
mh rcw.sncEh r,cEh x.wrcJ.qkrx,cdrkcfmcjrcfuc.gwcwhygvncYc fmkcghk
wym.uuhygkc scufjdyen”

Lhxcmh rc h rgkmc.lkrxckprckihcp.wcdrlkcprx--J.qkrxcmydrgkc.gwcepydds,
Um ykp,c.ddcwrjhg.yxcepf  ygrmm,czgr.wygvckprchkprx’mc.x c.gwcuhygkygv
hfkc.mckprscirgkchjtrekmchlcygkrxrmkcjsckprci.smywr--Rorcxr .ygrw
hgckprckrxx.erci.dd,ckpygzygvncMprci.mcd.fvpygvcghi,cjfkcjrpygwcprx
. fmr rgkckprxrci.mc.ghkprxclrrdygv,c.gwchgrckp.kcurxudrqrwcprxnc.cvhhw
 .gsc rgcp.wcuxhuhmrwckhcprxcygckprcehfxmrchlcprxce.xrrx,cjfkcghgrchl
kpr cp.wcrorxcdrlkcprxciykpckpymchwwclrrdygvchlcrqpyd.x.kyhgncUm ykp
i.mcwyllrxrgkclxh c.gschkprxc .gciphcp.wceh rcprxci.s,c.gwcwyllrxrger
i.mc.cbf.dykscipyepcRorcrmkrr rwncncncn

Mprcp.wctfmkcxr.eprwckprcehgedfmyhgckp.kcdylrclhxcip.krorxcvyxdc yvpk
rorgkf.ddscwreywrckhcxymzcykcygcUm ykp’mceh u.gscihfdwcgrorxcjrcwfdd,
iprgcmkx.gvrcwhygvmcygcprxcy  rwy.krcgryvpjhfxphhwcxhfmrwcprxclxh cprx
 rwyk.kyhgmn

Kprckpygvcp.uurgrwc.mcmprcxhmrclxh cprxcmr.kchgckprci.ddc.gwcmk.xkrwckh
exhmmckprckrxx.erchgcprxci.sckhckprclxhgkcwhhxncMprcp.wcmkhuurwclhxc.g
ygmk.gkcjrgr.kpckprcpfvrchurgciygwhichlckprcwx.iygv-xhh ckhcdymkrgckh
ip.kci.mcvhygvchgcygmywrncL.ygkds,ciykpcmh rkpygvchlckprcbf.dykschlc.
l.x-hllcuphghvx.up,ckprcmhfgwchlcUm ykpcxr.wygvce. rckhcprx;c.gwcrorg
.kckpymcwymk.gerckprxrci.mc.ceh uhmrwcjd.gwgrmmc.jhfkcpymcohyercipyep
jxhfvpkc.cm ydrckhcprxcdyumn

.gwckprg,ciykpc.cmk.xkdygvc.jxfukgrmm,ckprcdyvpkrwciygwhici.mcw.xznc.gw
mprci.mc.i.xrckp.kc.ddckprcdyvpkrwciygwhimchgckp.kcmywrchlckprce.mkdr
p.wcmfwwrgdscjreh rcw.xzncKprcd. uckp.kcmphgrchorxckprcvxr.kcwhhx
er.mrwckhcmpygrnc.gwc.jhorckprcpfjjfjchlcohyermcygckprcwx.iygv-xhh cmpr
pr.xwcUm ykp’mcu.kyrgkcwx.idn

“D.wyrmc.gwcvrgkdr rg,cYckpygzckprcdyvpkmcp.orcvhgrchfkn”

Kprcgyvpkc.yxci.mcxrgkcjsc.cmygvdrcuyrxeygvcmexr. ncMh rkpygvcld.mprw
dyzrc.cmphhkygvcmk.xc.gwclrddc.kcprxclrrk;c.gw,cmkhhuygv,cRorclhfgwcyg
prxcp.gwmcD.wscEhgmk.gercZrrjdr’mcwy. hgwcgrezd.ern


§c5

Khcjrcuxru.xrwcymcrorxskpygvcygckpymcdylrncRorxcmygercprxck.dzciykpc xn
ThmrupcZrrjdrcygckprcPyvpcMkxrrkchlc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmckp.kc.lkrxghhg
Ror’mc ygwcp.wcjrrgcldykkygvcgy jdsclxh chgrcmepr rckhc.ghkprx,c.dd
wrmyvgrwckhcrgwcygckpymcorxsc.ekchlcmryaygvckprcgrezd.ercygcprxcp.gwm
.gwcr.epcxrgwrxrwcy ux.ekye.jdrcjscmh rc.gghsygvcld.inc.gwcghickp.k
L.krcygcykmcy ufdmyorci.scp.wc.epyrorwclhxcprxcip.kcmprcp.wcjrvfgckh
lrrdcmprcehfdwcgrorxc.eeh udympclhxcprxmrdl,cmprci.mkrwcghcky rcyg
jriydwrxrwcyg.ekyhgncKprc yx.edrclhfgwcprxcxr.wsclhxcykn

Lhxc.gcygmk.gkcmprcwrj.krwciykpcprxmrdlckprcep.germchlc.cw.mpckpxhfvp
kprcw.xzrgrwcp.ddcfuckprcmk.yxmckhcprxcxhh ncJfkckprcdyvpkmc yvpkcvh
hgc.v.yg,c.gwcmprc yvpkc rrkcmh rhgrnc r hxyrmchlcmrgm.kyhg.dcghordm
xr.wcygckprcu.mkckhdwcprxckp.kchgchee.myhgmcmfepc.mckpymcurhudrcirxr
wrk.ygrwc.gwcmr.xeprwncncncn

Mfwwrgds,c.mcmprcmkhhwckprxr,cmprclhfgwckprci.sncEdhmrcjrmywrcprx,
dsygvchgcykmcmywr,ci.mckprcldhirx-uhkcipyepcUm ykpcp.wchorxkfxgrwc.mcpr
e. rckhcthygcprxchgckprckrxx.erci.ddncYkc yvpkcp.orcwrlrekmc.mc.ce.epr,
jfkc.kckprc h rgkcmprcehfdwcurxeryorcghgrnc hmkcldhirx-uhkmc.xrc.dyzr,
jfkckpymci.mc.cu.xkyefd.xdscr.myds-xr r jrxrwcldhirx-uhk:clhxcygcykm
thfxgrsygvclxh ckprcuhkkygvcmprwckhckprckrxx.ercykcp.wc.ebfyxrwchgcykm
mywrc.cmud.mpchlcipykrcu.ygkncMprcihfdwcjrc.jdrckhcwymkygvfympcykclxh 
ykmclrddhimciprg,cd.krckp.kcgyvpk,cmprcexrukchfkckhcxrkxyrorckprcmuhydn
.gwcmfxrdscghjhwscihfdwcrorxckpygzchlcmfmurekygvcncncn

Mprcudfgvrwcprxclygvrxmcygkhckprcmhlkc hfdw,c.gwcmkx.yvpkrgrwcprxmrdl,
jxr.kpygvcbfyezdsncYkci.mcghkc.gcywr.dcuyrerchlcihxz,cjfkcykcihfdw
mrxorn

Mprcxfjjrwcprxclygvrxmchgckprckfxl,cufkckprcldhirx-uhkcj.ezcygckprcxhi
iykpckprchkprxm,c.gwckprg,cdyzrc.cldsygvcipykrcup.gkh ,cw.xkrwc.exhmm
kprckrxx.erc.gwcygkhckprcphfmrnc.gwcmhciykpcjr.kygvcpr.xk,cvxhuygvcprx
i.s,ckhckprcj.kpxhh ckhci.mpcprxcp.gwmn

Kprckirgks-kphfm.gw-uhfgwcldhirx-uhkcdhhzrwcud.eywdscfuc.kckprciygzygv
mk.xmn


§c6

Ykci.mcurxp.umckihc ygfkrmcd.krxckp.kc xncEhhkrm,cmuxygkygvcdfmkyds,
xhfgwrwckprcehxgrxchlckprcphfmrc.gwcjfxmkchgckhckprckrxx.erncD.krc.m
fmf.dn




EP.UKRXcQY

.D HMKcRGKYXRDSc.JHFKcLDHIRX-UHKM


§c1

KprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxcuxhidrwclrorxympdscfuc.gwcwhigckprcsyrdwygvce.xurk
hlckprcjyvcwx.iygv-xhh ncPymcrsrmcvdr. rwcjrpygwckpryxcmurek.edrm,cpym
wh r-dyzrcjxhici.mcehxxfv.krwncRqerukclhxcpy mrdl,ckprcxhh ci.mcr uksn
.mcl.xc.mckprcmergrchlckprcwym.mkrxci.mcehgerxgrw,ckprckf fdkc.gwckpr
mphfkygvcp.wcwyrwncYkci.mcvhygvchgcoyvhxhfmdscygcux.ekye.ddscrorxs
hkprxcu.xkchlckprcphfmr,cjfkcygckprcwx.iygv-xhh ckprxrci.mcmkyddgrmm,
ylcghkcur.ern

J.qkrxcu.fmrw,ce. rckhc.cwreymyhg,cirgkckhckprci.ddc.gwcuxrmmrwckpr
jrddn

“Kph .m,”cprcm.ywciprgckp.kclhhk .gcuxrmrgkrwcpy mrdlc.clric h rgkm
d.krxn

“Myx?”

“MrgwcMfm.gckhc rn”

“Mfm.g,cmyx?”

“Srm,cMfm.g,”cmg.uurwckprcRllyeyrgkcHgr,ciphcp.wc.di.smc.cmphxk
i.sciykpckprcwh rmkyecmk.llnc“Mfm.g,cMfm.g,cMfm.gncncncncKprcgri
u.xdhfx .ywn”

“Hp,csrm,cmyxncOrxscvhhw,cmyxn”

Kph .mciykpwxri,chfki.xwdsc.ddcvx.orcxrmureklfdgrmm,cygi.xwdscuybfrw,
.mci.mcpymcihgk,c.kckprc.yxsc .ggrxcygcipyepckprcmrexrk.xscldfgvcpym
hxwrxmc.jhfkc.kckprce.mkdrncKprcwh rmkyecmk.llc.kcJd.gwygvmcdyorwcygc.
urxurkf.dcmk.krchlcm hfdwrxygvcwymehgkrgkcfgwrxcJ.qkrx’mcxfdrn

“Mfm.g,”cm.ywcKph .mciprgcprc.xxyorwcygckprcdhirxcxrvyhgm,c“shf’xrckh
vhcfuckhckprcwx.iygv-xhh ncGhmrscU.xzrxci.gkmcshfn”

Kprcudr.m.gk-l.erwcshfgvcih .gciph cprc.wwxrmmrwcd.ywcwhigcprxczgykkygvn

“Iph?”cmprc.mzrwn

“ ymkrxcJdhh ygvcJ.qkrxncIprgcshf’orcjrrgcprxrc.cdykkdrcdhgvrxcshf’dd
zghickp.kcpr’mckprclrddrxckp.kchigmckprcud.erncPhicprcvhkcykcYcwhg’k
zghincLhfgwcyk,”cm.ywcKph .mcm.kyxye.dds,c“ygcpymcEpxymk .mcmkhezygv,cY
rqureknc.gsphi,cshf’xrckhcvhcfun”

Kph .m’mclrddhi-lhhk .g,cMkhzrm,c.cmrxyhfm-dhhzygvc .gciykpc.cj.dw
lhxrpr.w,cmphhzckp.kclhxrpr.wcmhdr gdsn

“Mh rkpygv’mckprc .kkrx,”cprc.mmrxkrwnc“Shfce.g’kckrddc rckp.kci.mg’kc.
mexr. circpr.xwciprgckpr cdyvpkmci.mchfkncHx,”cprc.wwrwciryvpkyds,clhx
prci.mc.c .gciphcdhhzrwc.kcrorxscmywrchlc.cbfrmkyhg,c“.cmpxyrzncYkci.m
.cmpxyrzchxcmexr. ncYcm.ywcmhc.kckprcky rnc‘Kprxr,’cYcm.yw,c‘dymkrg!’cY
m.ywnc‘Kp.k’mcmh rjhwscmexr. ygv,’cYcm.ywnc‘Hxcmpxyrzygvn’cMh rkpygv’m
fun”

“Irdd,cJ.qkrxcp.mg’kcjrrgc fxwrxrw,cihxmrcdfez,”cm.ywcKph .mnc“Pr’mcfu
kprxrcmexr. ygvchxcmpxyrzygvclhxcMfm.gnc‘MrgwcMfm.gckhc r!’”cuxherrwrw
Kph .m,cvyoygvc.gc.di.smcuhufd.xcy yk.kyhgnc“‘Mfm.g,cMfm.g,cMfm.gn’cMh
shf’wcjrmkcvh,c scvyxd,c.gwcmrrcip.kcprci.gkmn”

“Orxscirddn”

“.gw,cMfm.g,”cm.ywcKph .m,c.ckrgwrxcghkrcexrruygvcygkhcpymcohyer,clhx
.dxr.ws,cjxyrlc.mcp.wcjrrgcprxcmhthfxgc.kcJd.gwygvm,cprcp.wclhfgwckpr
gricu.xdhfx .ywc .zygvc.cwrrucy uxrmmyhgchgcpy ,c“ylcyk’mc.cxhichlc.gs
zygwcncncn”

“Hxcwrmexyukyhg,”cygkrxtrekrwcMkhzrmn

“Hxcwrmexyukyhg,”cehgkygfrwcKph .m,c.eerukygvckprcihxw,c“ylc’r’mc’.xmp
iykpcshfclhxcmh rcxr.mhgchxchkprx,cshfceh rcxyvpkcj.ezckhc rc.gwcmhj
hfkcshfxckxhfjdrmchgc sceprmk,cmrr?cD.scshfxcdykkdrc’r.wchgc scmphfdwrx
.gwckrddc rc.ddc.jhfkcykn”

Kprcgricu.xdhfx .yw,cuxy dscwredygygvckhcxrudsckhckpymc.ddfxygv
ygoyk.kyhg,cmk.xkrwchgcprxcthfxgrscfumk.yxm;c.gwcKph .m,ciykpc.cghk
fg .gdscmyvp,cxrmf rwcpymcygkrxxfukrwcv. rchlcp.dlurggscg.uciykp
ehddr.vfrcMkhzrmn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

KprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxcp.wcvhgrckhckprchurgciygwhic.gwci.mcv.aygvchfk
ygkhckprcgyvpkciprgcMfm.gcrgkrxrwckprcwx.iygv-xhh n

“Shfciymprwckhcmrrc r,c xncJ.qkrx?”

Kprcmrexrk.xscmufgcxhfgwncMhcmhlkdscp.wcmprchurgrwckprcwhhx,c.gw
mhcghymrdrmmdscp.wcmprc horwciprgcygmywrckprcxhh ,ckp.kcykci.mcghk
fgkydcmprcmuhzrckp.kcprcp.wcjreh rc.i.xrchlcprxc.xxyo.dncYkci.mc.
ep.x.ekrxymkyechlckpymcvyxdcMfm.gckp.kcmprci.mc.di.smc.ukckhcjrc. hgv
kphmrcuxrmrgkcmh rcky rcjrlhxrckprcd.kkrxcjre. rcehvgym.gkchlckprcl.ekn

“Hp,cvhhwcrorgygv,c ymmcMy  hgmncShfce. rcygcorxscbfyrkdsn”

“P.jyk,”cm.ywckprcu.xdhfx .ywn

“Shfcv.orc rcbfykrc.cmk.xkn”

“Y’ cmhxxsncIp.kci.mcyk,”cmprc.mzrw,cwym ymmygvcygc.cuhmykyords
fglrrdygvc .ggrxckprcmfjtrekchlcprxceh u.gyhg’mct.xxrwcgrxorm,c“kp.k
shfciymprwckhcmrrc rc.jhfk?”

“Mpfkckp.kcwhhxn”

“Ycp.orncYc.di.smcmpfkcwhhxmn”

“Udr.mrcmykcwhign”

“Gh,ckp.gzcshf,c xncJ.qkrxncYkc yvpkcdhhzchwwcylc.gshgrcmphfdwceh r
ygn”

“HlcehfxmrncShfckpygzchlcrorxskpygvn”

“Yc.di.smcwhn”

J.qkrxcmkhhwclhxc.c h rgk,clxhigygvn

“ ymmcMy  hgm,”cprcm.yw,c“iprgcYckphfvpkcykcrqurwyrgkckhcygmk.ddc.
uxyo.krcwrkrekyorcygckpymcphfmr,cYcygmymkrwchgcIx.vvr’mcmrgwygvcshfncIr
p.wcihxzrwckhvrkprxcjrlhxrcncncn”

“MyqkrrgkpchlcWrer jrx,c1918,ckhcT.gf.xsckirdor,c1919,ciprgcshfcirxr
mrexrk.xsckhc xncPhx.ercTrohgm,ckprc. rxye.gc yddyhg.yxr,”cm.ywc ymm
My  hgmc.mcuxh ukdsc.mcylcprcp.wckhfeprwc.cmuxygvncYkci.mcprxcphjjsckh
xr r jrxcw.krmciykpcuxreymyhgn

“Rq.ekdsncYcygmymkrwcfuhgcshfxcjrygvcmrgkcjre.fmrcYczgriclxh 
rqurxyrgerckp.kcshfcirxrcxrdy.jdrnc.kckp.kcky rcYcdhhzrwchgcshfx
uxrmrgercprxrc rxrdsc.mc.cuxre.fkyhg.xsc r.mfxrncGhi,cYc. cmhxxsckh
m.scncncn”

“Wywcmh rhgrcmkr.dcD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcgrezd.erckh-gyvpk?”

“Srm!”

“Iprgckprcdyvpkmcirgkchfkctfmkcghi?”

“Rq.ekdsn”

“Irdd,cipscehfdwg’kcshfcm.scmhc.kchger?cVhhwcvx.eyhfm,c .g,cshfcwhg’k
p.orckhcjxr.zckprckpygvcvrgkdsckhc rn”

KprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrx,ckphfvpcprcmkxhgvdschjtrekrwckhcjrygvc.wwxrmmrwc.m
“ .g,”cwreywrwckhchorxdhhzckprcmhdreym n

“Kprcdyvpkmcmfwwrgdscirgkchfk,”cprcm.ywnc“Kprxrci.mc.cerxk.ygc. hfgkchl
d.fvpkrxc.gwcehglfmyhgncKprgc.cuyrxeygvcmpxyrzcncncn”

“Ycpr.xwcykn”

“.gwcy  rwy.krdsc.lkrxcD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcohyercexsygvckp.kcprxctrirdm
p.wcjrrgcmg.keprwclxh cprxcgrezn”

“Kprgcip.kcp.uurgrw?”

“Mkyddcvxr.krxcehglfmyhg,cipyepcd.mkrwcfgkydchgrchlckprc .ywmc.xxyorw
iykpc.ce.gwdrncRorgkf.ddsckprcdyvpkmcirgkchgc.v.yg,cjfkchlckprcgrezd.er
kprxrci.mcghcmyvgcip.krorxn”

“Irdd?cIrxrcshfcrqurekygvckprckpyrlckhcir.xcykc.mc.ci.kep-ep.ygchxcp.gv
ykclxh cpymckrrkp?”

J.qkrxci.mclygwygvcpymceh u.gyhg’mc .ggrxc hxrckxsygvcrorxsc ygfkr,cjfk
prcuxrmrxorwcpymce.d n

“G.kfx.ddsckprcwhhxmcirxrcj.xxrwc.gwc.ceh udrkrcmr.xepcygmkykfkrwn
.gwcrqkxr rdscr j.xx.mmygvcykci.mncIykpckprcmygvdrcrqerukyhgchlckpr
mehfgwxrdciphcp.mcjrrgcu.d ygvcpy mrdlchllc.mc eKhww,c.ddckphmrcuxrmrgk
irxrcirdd-zghigc r jrxmchlcMheyrksn”

“Irdd-zghigc r jrxmchlcMheyrksc yvpkcghkchjtrekckhcvrkkygvcphdwchl
.ckirgks-kphfm.gwcuhfgwcgrezd.erncJfkcmkydd,ciykpckprc eKhwwclrddhi
kprxr,cshfchfvpkg’kckhcp.orcp.wcl.xckhcdhhzncIp.kcp.wcprckhcm.sc.jhfk
yk?”

“Prci.mc. hgvckprclyxmkckhcr ukscpymcuhezrkmn”

“Irdd,ckprg,cprc fmkcp.orcpywwrgckprckpygvcmh riprxrn”

“Ghkcygckpymcxhh ncYcp.orcmr.xeprwc.mmywfhfmdsn”

“P’ n”

Kprxrci.mc.cmydrgern

“Ykcymcj.lldygv,”cm.ywcJ.qkrx,c“j.lldygvn”

“Ykcymcghkpygvchlckprczygw,”cxrudyrwc ymmcMy  hgmck.xkdsnc“Kpymci.mg’k
.chgr- .gcthjncPhicehfdwcykcp.orcjrrg?cYcmphfdwcjrcygedygrwckhce.dd
ykc.ckpxrr- .gcthjncHgrckhcmiykepchllckprcdyvpkm,chgrckhcmg.kepckpr
grezd.er,c.gwchgrckh--i.mckp.kciygwhichurgc.ddckprcky r?cYckphfvpk
mh--.gwchgrckhcuyezcfuckprcgrezd.erciprgckprcmrehgwclrddhickpxricykchfk
hgckhckprckrxx.ern”

“Krxx.er!”

Kprcihxwcmphkclxh cJ.qkrx’mcdyumciykpcrqudhmyorclhxernc ymmcMy  hgm
dhhzrwc.kcpy cefxyhfmdsn

“Kphfvpkchlcmh rkpygv?”

“ ymmcMy  hgm,”cm.ywckprcRllyeyrgkcHgrcy uxrmmyords,c“rorxsjhws
i.mc.mmr jdrwcygcprxrci.ykygvclhxckprcxr.wygvckhcjrvyg,cjfkckpr
umrfwh- eKhwwci.mcghiprxrckhcjrclhfgwncYcwymehorxrwcpy crorgkf.ddschg
kprckrxx.ercygcedhmrck.dzciykpckprcP.ddyw.scvyxdn”

“Pymcu.xkgrx,”cm.ywc ymmcMy  hgm,cghwwygvnc“Irckphfvpkcmhc.ddc.dhgvn
.gwcdrkc rc.wwc scdykkdrcjykncKprxr’mc.clrddhicwhigcygckprcmrxo.gkm’
p.ddckp.kce.ddmcpy mrdlc.co.drk,c.gwcY’ddcjrkcprcwywg’kczghicip.kc.
o.drkci.mckyddcprce. rcprxrncYckphfvpkcprci.mc.cexhhzckprc h rgkcYcmrk
rsrmchgcpy ncYce.gckrddc’r cygckprcw.xzncGhi,cwhcshfczghiciphmrco.drk
prcym?cKpymc eKhwwclrddhi’m!”

J.qkrxcjhfgwrwckhc.gwclxhcdyzrc.ce.vrwckyvrxn

“.gwciykpc schigcr.xm,”cprcexyrwcrqeykrwds,c“Ycpr.xwckprcP.ddyw.scvyxd
xrlfmrckhceh rckhckprcwx.iygv-xhh ckhcdymkrgckhckprcxr.wygvncMprci.m
hfkchgckprckrxx.erckpxhfvphfkckprciphdrc.ll.yxnc ymmcMy  hgm,circ fmk
.ek!cIrc fmkc.ek!”

“Srm,cjfkcghkcdyzrcywyhkm,”cxrudyrwckprcwrkrekyorclxhmkydsn

“Ip.kcwhcshfc r.g?”

“Irdd,cshfce.g’kcep.xvrchfk,c.mcshfcdhhzrwc.mcylcshfci.gkrwckhctfmk
kprg,c.gwcwrghfgerckprmrcexhhzmciprxrckprscmykncIr’orcvhkckhcvh
e.xrlfddsn”

“Jfkc r.gipydrckprsciyddcm fvvdrckprcgrezd.erc.i.s!”

“Kprscihg’kcm fvvdrc.gscgrezd.erc.i.s,cghkcipydrcY’ c.xhfgwn
Mfmuyeyhg’mcghcvhhwncIr’orc .wrchfkc.cgyercdykkdrce.mrc.v.ygmkckpr
kpxrrchlckpr ,cjfkcyk’mcghcfmrcfgdrmmcirce.kepckpr ciykpckprcvhhwmn
Kprclyxmkckpygvcircp.orckhcwhcymckhclygwchfkciprxrckprs’orcpywwrgckpr
mkfllnc.gwckp.k’ddck.zrcu.kyrgerncY’ddcmk.xkcjscmr.xepygvckp.kcvyxd’m
xhh ncKprgcY’ddcmr.xepckprco.drkclrddhi’mcxhh nc.gwcylckprcmkfllcymg’k
kprxr,cyk’ddc r.gckprs’orcpywwrgcykchfkcygckprchurgcmh riprxrn”

“Jfkckpymc eKhwwclrddhincKpymclrddhiciphcuhmrmc.mc eKhwwncPrc .scp.or
ykc.ddckprcipydrn”

“GhncY’ddcmr.xepcpymcxhh ,ckhh,cjfkckprcmkfllcihg’kcjrckprxrncPr’mckpr
lrddhiciph’mcvhygvckhcvrkcykcygckprcrgw,cjre.fmrcpr’mcvhkckp.kcud.er
hfkcygckprcihhwmckhcpywrcykcygncJfkckprscihfdwg’kcp.orcp.wcky rckhcmdyu
ykckhcpy csrkncKp.kcgrezd.ercymcmh riprxrcxyvpkcprxrnc.gwcyl,”cm.yw
 ymmcMy  hgmciykpcvxy cl.erkyhfmgrmm,c“kprsce.gcpywrcykclxh c r,ckprs
 .sczrrucykc.mc.cjyxkpw.scuxrmrgkn”


§c2

Phicihgwrxlfd,cylcircu.fmrckhcrq. ygrcyk,cymcG.kfxr’mcygrqhx.jdrcd.ichl
eh urgm.kyhgncYgmkr.wchlci.mkygvcky rcygcrgoschlchfxc rgk.dcmfurxyhxm,
ircihfdwcwhcirddckhcxrldrekckp.kckprmrcvylkmchlckpryxmcipyepcrqeykrchfx
iymklfdctr.dhfmsc.xrcrorxc.kkrgwrwcjscehxxrmuhgwygvcurg.dkyrmncKhck.zr
.gcrq. udrckp.kcdyrmckhcp.gw,cykci.mckprcorxscl.ekckp.kcprcuhmmrmmrwc.
jx.ygcdyzrc.cjfaa-m.ickp.kcxrgwrxrwckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxc.cj.wcmdrrurxn
Tfmkc.mcprcihfdwcjrcwxhuuygvchll,cjygv!cihfdwcvhckp.kcjx.ygchlcpym,
 rdkygvckprc ymkmchlcmdrrucdyzrcmghicygc.clfxg.ern

Kpymci.mcmhcrorgciprgcdylrci.mcxfggygvce.d dsclhxcpy c.gwciykphfk
rqeykr rgkncKh-gyvpk,cpymc ygw,cjr.xygvckprcdh.wcykcwyw,clyx ds
wredygrwcrorgckhcehgmywrxckprcbfrmkyhgchlcmdf jrxncKprcphfxchlckih,
epy ygvclxh ckprcedhezchorxckprcmk.jdrm,clhfgwcpy c.mciywrc.i.zrc.m
rorxcprci.mc.kcpyvpcghhgn

Dsygvcygcjrwcygckprcw.xzgrmm,cprcxroyrirwckprcmykf.kyhgc.mcl.xc.mcpr
p.wckprcw.k.ncMphxkdscjrlhxrcprcxrkyxrw,c ymmcMy  hgmcp.wc .wrcprx
xruhxkc.jhfkckprcjrwxhh mncKphfvpcmfjtrekrwckhckprcmrorxrmkcmexfkygs,
grykprxcUm ykp’mcjhfwhyxcghxcEhhkrm’mc.kkyecghxcRor’mcdykkdrcghhzchg
kprckpyxwcldhhxcp.wcsyrdwrwcfuckxr.mfxrchlc.gscwrmexyukyhgnc.gwckpym,
 ymmcMy  hgmcprdw,cehglyx rwcprxchxyvyg.dcoyrickp.kckprcgrezd.erc fmk
jrcdsygvcehger.drwcygcip.kc yvpkc.d hmkcjrce.ddrwc.cufjdyecmuhk--hg
mh rciygwhi-drwvr,c .sjr,chxcmh riprxrcygckprcp.ddncncncn

J.qkrxcd.scehgmywrxygvckpymckprhxsncYkcwywc.uur.xckhcjrckprchgds
krg.jdrchgr;cjfkcykchllrgwrwcpy cjscvyoygvckprcmr.xepc.clxyohdhfm
mfvvrmkyhgchlcjrygvcmh rcmhxkchlcxhfgwcv. rcdyzrcPfgkckprcMdyuurxchx
LygwckprcKpy jdrnc.mc.cepydwcprcp.wcprdwc.fmkrxrdsc.dhhlclxh ckprmr
myddscu.mky rm,c.gwcprcxrmrgkrwcjrygvceh urddrwckhcud.sckpr cghin
Mkyddcncncn

Prcm.kcfu,ckpygzygvncPrcp.wcpr.xwc.cghymrn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Kprc.kkykfwrchlckprc .thxykschlcurhudrckhi.xwmcghymrmcygckprcgyvpkcym
hgrchlce.fkyhfmcghg-ygkrxlrxrgerncJfkcXfurxkcJ.qkrxci.mc .wrchlcmkrxgrx
mkfllncKprcmhfgwcp.wcmrr rwckhceh rclxh cwhigmk.yxmcmh riprxr--urxp.um
lxh ckp.kcorxscp.ddciprxr,c.eehxwygvckhc ymmcMy  hgm,ckprcmkhdrg
grezd.erc yvpkcrorgcghicjrcdsygvcpywncIp.krorxcykci.m,cykc fmk
erxk.ygdscghkcjrcyvghxrwncPrcxr.eprwclhxckprcmurek.edrmcipyepcd.s
rorxcxr.wsckhcpymcp.gwchgckprck.jdrcjrmywrcpy :ckprgcedy jrwchfkchl
jrw,c.gw,cp.oygvcufkchgc.cu.yxchlcmdyuurxmc.gwchurgrwckprcwhhx,cexruk
lhxkpcygkhckprcw.xzgrmmnc.mcl.xc.mcprcehfdwc.merxk.ygcjscphdwygvcpym
jxr.kpc.gwcmkx.ygygvcpymcr.xm,c.ddci.mcmkyddclxh cerdd.xckhcxhhl;cjfk
grorxkprdrmmcprci.mcghkcm.kymlyrwncPrcehgkygfrwckhcdymkrgncPymcxhh 
i.mchgckprcmrehgwcldhhx,chgrchlc.cmrxyrmckp.kcx.gc.dhgvc.cj.dehgs
horxdhhzygvckprcp.dd;c.gwcprcmkhhw,cdr.gygvchorxckprcj.dehgscx.yd,c.
mydrgkcmk.kfrchlcOyvyd.gern

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Kprcghymrcipyepcp.wc.ekrwcmhcrdrekxye.ddscfuhgckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrx
p.wcjrrgc.cu.xkyefd.xdscghymscghymr;c.gwchgdsckprcygkrxorgygvcwymk.ger
.gwckprcl.ekckp.kcpymcwhhxci.mcedhmrwcp.wcuxrorgkrwcykcmhfgwygvckhcpy 
dyzrc.gcrqudhmyhgncYkcp.wcjrrgce.fmrwcjsckprcex.mpygvcwhigl.ddchlc.
m .ddck.jdrcehgk.ygygvc.co.mr,c.ct.xchlcuhkuhfxxy,c.gcYgwy.gcm.gw.dihhw
jhqchlcefxyhfmcihxz .gmpyu,c.gwc.ce.jygrk-myarcuphkhvx.upchlckprcR.xd
hlcR mihxkp’mcrdwrmkcmhg,cDhxwcJhmp. ;c.gwckprck.jdrcp.wcl.ddrgcjre.fmr
Ror,c_rgcxhfkr_c.exhmmckprcp.ddcygcbfrmkchlcprxcuxreyhfmcldhirx-uhk,
p.wcehddywrwciykpcykcipydrc .zygvclhxckprclxhgkcwhhxncHlc.ddcygwhhx
muhxkm--.gwcRor,c.mcmprcmkhhwcu.ddywdsc. hgvckprcxfygm,cihfdwcp.orcjrrg
kprclyxmkckhcrgwhxmrckpymcwyekf --kprchgrcipyepchllrxmckprc ygy f 
hlcudr.mfxrckhckprcu.xkyeyu.gkcymckp.kchlcxh. ygvcygcuykepcw.xzgrmm
kpxhfvpckprcp.ddchlc.cehfgkxs-phfmrncR.mydscg.oyv.jdrcygckprcw.sky r,
kprmrcud.ermcjreh rc.kcgyvpkc rxrckx.umclhxckprcfgi.xsn

Rorcu.fmrwcjxr.kpdrmmdsncMhckrxxylyecp.wckprcghymrcmhfgwrwckhcprx
vfydkscr.xmckp.kcrorxsc h rgkcmprci.mcrqurekygvcwhhxmckhchurgc.ddchorx
kprce.mkdr,cjrdepygvclhxkpcmphfkygvc rgciykpcuymkhdmncJfkc.mcghkpygv
p.uurgrw,cehfx.vrcxrkfxgrwckhcprx,c.gwcmprcxrmf rwcprxcthfxgrsncMpr
lhfgwckprcvxr.kcwhhx,cx.gcprxclygvrxmc.dhgvcykmcmfxl.er,c.gwcwxrickpr
ep.ygncKprcmphhkygvcj.ezchlckprcjhdkmcheefuyrwcjfkc.ghkprxcygmk.gk,c.gw
kprgcmprci.mchfkchgckprckrxx.ercxfggygvcprxcp.xwrmkckhi.xwmckprcxhichl
ldhirx-uhkmn

Fuchgcpymcj.dehgs,c r.gipydr,ckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxci.mcmkhuuygv,
dhhzygv,c.gwcdymkrgygvncKprcdhhzygvcjxhfvpkcghcxrmfdkm,clhxc.ddcjrdhi
i.mcjd.ezc.mcuykep;cjfkckprcdymkrgygvcuxhorwc hxrclxfyklfdncL.ygkds
lxh cwhigcygckprcirddchlckprcp.ddckprxrcldh.krwcfuckhcpy c.curefdy.x
mhfgwcdyzrcmh rkpygvcxfmkdygvcygckprcw.xzgrmmncP.wcprcxr.eprwckpr
j.dehgsc.c h rgkcr.xdyrx,cprcihfdwcp.orcpr.xwckprcx.kkdrchlckprcep.yg
.gwckprcedyezchlckprcjhdkm;cjfkckprmrcghymrmcp.wcheefxxrwctfmkcjrlhxr
prce. rchfkchlcpymcxhh ncGhic.ddckp.kci.mc.fwyjdrci.mckpymcxfmkdygvn

Prcehfdwcghkc.g.dsmrckprcmhfgw,cjfkckprcl.ekckp.kckprxrci.mc.gscmhfgw
.kc.ddcygcmfepc.cud.erc.kcmfepc.gcphfxcygexr.mrwcpymcmfmuyeyhgmckp.k
w.xzcwhygvmcirxrckhi.xwcipyepcihfdwcu.sclhxcygormkyv.kyhgncIykp
mkr.dkpscmkrumcprcexrukckhckprcpr.wchlckprcmk.yxmc.gwcwrmergwrwn

Hgrcfmrmckprcorxjc“wrmergw”c.woymrwds,clhxcip.kcymcxrbfyxrwcymcmh r
ihxwcmfvvrmkygvcygmk.gk.grhfmc.ekyoyksnc.jhfkcJ.qkrx’mcuxhvxrmmclxh 
kprcmrehgwcldhhxckhckprclyxmkckprxrci.mcghkpygvcp.dkygvchxcprmyk.kygvn
Pr,cmhckhcmur.z,cwywcykcghincUd.gkygvcpymclhhkclyx dschgc.cvhdl-j.dd
ipyepckprcPhgncLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhw,ciphcp.wcjrrgcux.ekymygvcufkkygvcyg
kprcehxxywhxcjrlhxrcxrkyxygvckhcjrw,cp.wcdrlkcygcpymce.mf.dcl.mpyhg
tfmkciprxrckprcmkrumcjrv.g,cprckhhzckprcrgkyxrcmk.yxe.mrcygchgr
 .trmkye,cohdud.gygvcmirruncKprxrcirxrcrdrorgcmk.yxmcygc.ddcmru.x.kygv
pymcd.gwygvclxh ckprcd.gwygvcjrdhi,c.gwckprchgdschgrmcprcpykcirxrckpr
kpyxwc.gwckrgkpncPrce. rckhcxrmkciykpc.cmbf.kkrxygvckpfwchgckprcdhirx
d.gwygv,c.gwclhxc.c h rgkchxckihckprclrorxchlckprcep.mrcdrlkcpy n

Kprcl.ekckp.kc .gscixykrxmcygckpryxcky rcp.orceh  rgkrwc.kcmh rcdrgvkp
hgckprc smkrxyhfmc .ggrxcygcipyepcL.krcymc.ukckhcurxlhx cykmcihxzc fmk
ghkcwrkrxcfmcghiclxh c.cjxyrlcmfxorschlckpymcd.krmkc .gylrmk.kyhgchl
ykmcygvrgyhfmc rkphwmncP.wcghkcpymcygkrxoyriciykpcRorckp.kc.lkrxghhgcmh
mky fd.krwckprcPhgncLxrwwyrc.mckhcxroyorcygcpy c.cl.ygkcsrkcwrlygykr
wrmyxrckhcufkk,ckprxrcihfdwcp.orcjrrgcghcvhdl-j.ddci.ykygvclhxcJ.qkrx
hgckprcmk.yxmnc.gwcp.wcprcjrrgcurx ykkrwckhcgrvhky.krckprcmk.yxmcygc.
drmmcy urkfhfmc .ggrx,cJ.qkrxcihfdwcghkc.kckpymctfgekfxrcp.orcmiykeprw
hgckprcdyvpkn

Ykcp.wcghkcjrrgcpymchxyvyg.dcygkrgkyhgckhcyddf yg.krckprckpr.kxrchl
.ekyhg,cjfkc.lkrxckp.kcDfeylrx-dyzrcwrmergkclxh ckprcmrehgwcldhhxckh
kprclyxmkcprci.mck.zygvcghc hxrcep.germnc“M.lrkscLyxmk”ci.mcJ.qkrx’m
mdhv.gnc.mcmhhg,ckprxrlhxr,c.mcprcp.wcmp.zrgchllc.cw.arwcmrgm.kyhgchl
 rgk.dc.gwc hx.dcehdd.umr,c.zygckhckp.kcipyepceh rmckhckprc .gciph
mkrumchgckprckrrkpchlc.cx.zrc.gwcymcm ykkrgchgckprclhxrpr.wcjsckpr
p.gwdr,cprcxhmrciykpcyglygykrce.fkyhgckhcpymclrrkc.gw,clrrdygvcpymci.s
whigcjsckprcj.gymkrxm,cvxhurwclhxckprcmiykepc.gwcuxrmmrwcyknc.gwcmhcyk
e. rc.jhfkckp.kcRor,cpr.wygvclhxcph rciykpcprxcuxreyhfmcldhirx-uhkcyg
prxc.x m,ci.mcmkhuurwciprgc.kckprcorxscwhhxcjsc.cmfwwrgci.xgygvcldhhw
hlcdyvpknc.ghkprxcygmk.gk,c.gwcmprcihfdwcp.orcjrrgc.exhmmckprckpxrmphdw
hlcwym.mkrxn

Lhxc.c h rgkcu.x.dsmymcvxyuurwcprxncKprcdyvpkcp.wc.llrekrwcprxcdyzr
mh rhgrcmphfkygvcdhfwdsc.gwcfgrqurekrwdscygcprxcr.xncPrxcpr.xkcv.or
hgrcehgofdmyorcjhfgw,c.gwcmprcmkhhwclxhargncKprg,clyddrwciykpc.cjdygw
wrmyxrclhxcldyvpk,cmprcw.mprwcdyzrc.cpfgkrwcx.jjykcygkhckprclxyrgwds
mprdkrxchlc.cedf uchlcjfmprmn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

J.qkrxcmkhhwcjdygzygvncVx.wf.ddscpymcrsrmc.wtfmkrwckpr mrdormckhckpr
dyvpk,c.gwcy  rwy.krdsckprscp.wcwhgrcmhcprci.mcmryarwcjsc.clxrmpclxrgas
hlcar.dncGhickp.kc.ddckpygvmcirxrc .wrcoymyjdrckhcpy cprcehfdwcmrrckp.k
kp.kcl.ygkcxfmkdygvcmhfgwcp.wcjrrgce.fmrwcjsc.cefxk.ygcld.uuygvcygckpr
jxrrar,c.gwckp.kckprcjxrrarcipyepc .wrckprcefxk.ygcld.uci.mceh ygvcyg
kpxhfvpckprchurgclxhgkcwhhxn

J.qkrxci.mkrwcghcky rcygc.jmkx.ekckphfvpkncPrc.ekrwcmiylkdsc.gwciykp
wreymyhgncMkx.yvpkrgygvcpymcmurek.edrmchgcpymcghmr,cprcvyxwrwcfucpym
ust. .mc.gwcv.ddhurwchfkcygkhckprcgyvpkn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Kprcm hhkpckrxx.ercmdrukcfgwrxckprcmk.xmncKhc.c hxrcuhrkyec .gckp.g
J.qkrxcykcihfdwcp.orcmrr rwckhcir.xckp.kcl.ygkdscxruxh.eplfdc.yxcipyep
.cv.xwrgc.di.smc.mmf rmciprgcygo.wrwc.kcfgmrr dscphfxmcjscurhudrciph
hfvpkckhcjrcygcjrwncJ.qkrx,cgrorxcl.geylfd,ci.mcjdygwckhckpymncPrci.m
kpygzygv,ckpygzygvncKp.kcmp.zygv-fuchgckprcmk.yxmcp.wcepfxgrwcygkh
.ekyoyksckprcorxscwrukpmchlcpymcjx.ygc.gwcprci.mc.kckprclrorx-uhygk
hlcpymcxr.mhgygvcuhirxmnc.ckphfvpkcp.wceh rcdyzrc.clfdd-jdhigcxhmr,
ldfmpygvcpymcjxhinc ymmcMy  hgm,c.xvfygvcud.fmyjds,cp.wcmfvvrmkrwckp.k
kprcmkhdrgcgrezd.erc yvpkcjrcehger.drwcygckprcp.ddncJ.qkrx,cygmuyxrw,
l.geyrwcghkncIphrorxcykci.mckp.kcp.wcjrrgc.kcihxzcygckprcp.ddctfmkcghi
p.wcjrrgc .zygvclhxckprcv.xwrgncYkci.mcghkckprcwrmyxrckhcrme.urcipyep
p.wcdrwcpy --hxcprx--khchurgckprclxhgkcwhhx,clhxckprchurgygvcp.wcjrrg
whgrcjrlhxrcpr,cJ.qkrx,cp.wceh rchfkchgckhckprcj.dehgs--hkprxiymrcpr
 fmkcp.orcpr.xwckprcmphhkygvchlckprcjhdkmncGhncKprcrgr s’mchjtrekyor
p.wcjrrgckprcv.xwrgncYgchkprxcihxwm,ckprckrxx.ernc.gwcips?cJre.fmr
mh riprxrchgckprckrxx.erci.mckprcmkhdrgcgrezd.ern

Mk.gwygvckprxrcygckprcmk.xdyvpk,ckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxcrgwr.ohfxrwckh
xrehgmkxfekckprcmergr,c.gwcwywcmhciykpcxr .xz.jdrc.eefx.esncPrcm.ickpr
trirdmcld.mpygvcwhigncPrcm.ickpr cuyezrwcfuncJfkckprxrcprcmkhuurwncKxs
.mcprc yvpk,cprcehfdwcghkcmrrckpr cpywwrgnc.gwcsrkckp.kckprscp.wcjrrg
pywwrg--.gwckp.kciykpygc.clriclrrkchlciprxrcprci.mcghicmk.gwygv--pr
lrdkcehgoygerwn

Prc horwclxh cpymcuhmykyhgcgr.xckprcwhhxc.gwcjrv.gckhcxh. cxrmkdrmmdsn
Pymcmdyuurxrwclrrkcu.wwrwchorxckprcmhlkckfxln

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Rorcurrxrwchfkclxh cprxcedf uchlcjfmprmncYkci.mcghkcr.msckhcmrrc.gs
vxr.kcwymk.ger,cjfkcL.kr,cprxclxyrgw,ci.mcmkyddciykpcprxncKprxrcp.w
jrrgc.c h rgkckp.kcgyvpkciprgcJ.qkrx,cwymxhjygvclhxcjrw,cp.wci.orxrw
.jmrgkdscjrkirrgcpymcjxhigc.gwcpymcdr hg-ehdhfxrwcust. .m,cdykkdr
xrezygvchlcip.kcpfgvcfuhgckprcephyerncL.krcp.wcwyxrekrwcpymcp.gwckhckpr
dr hg-ehdhfxrw,c.gwcprcp.wcufkckpr chg;ciykpckprcxrmfdkckp.kcprcmphgr
ghicygckprcwy cdyvpkcdyzrckprcipykrcudf rchlcG.o.xxrncRorcehfdwclhddhi
pymc hor rgkmcurxlrekds,c.gw,ciprgcprci.mcl.xcrghfvpc.i.sclxh cpymcj.mr
khc .zrckprcrgkrxuxymrcuxfwrgk,cmprcmdyuurwchfkc.gwcx.erwclhxcph rc.gw
m.lrksncJ.qkrxc.kckprc h rgkci.mcdr.gygvchgckprckrxx.erci.dd,ckpygzygv,
kpygzygv,ckpygzygvn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Ykci.mcuhmmyjdsckprcehhdc.yx,cud.sygvc.jhfkcpymcj.xrc.gzdrm,ckp.kc.k
d.mkcepyddrwckprcmrexrk.xs’mcw.mpygvc hhwc.gwcjxhfvpkckprcwymbfyrkygv
kphfvpkckp.kcprci.mcwhygvcmh rkpygvcwymkygekdscw.gvrxhfmcygcxr .ygygv
hfkcprxrcygckprchurgcdyzrckpymnc.cv.gvchlckpyrormc.xrcfvdscefmkh rxm,
dyzrdsckhcmkyezc.kcdykkdrciprgc.co.df.jdrcgrezd.ercymc.kcmk.zr,c.gw
ykce. rckhckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxckp.kcygcpymcdyvpkcust. .mcprc fmk
jrchllrxygvc.ckr ukygvc .xzclhxc.gsc .x.fwrxcdfxzygv--m.scygckphmr
jfmprmnc.gwc.kckprckphfvpk,ckprcmf  rxcgyvpk,ckphfvpcudr.m.gkdsc ydw,
vxricmfwwrgdscepyddsncIykpc.gc.d hmkcehgofdmyorcx.uywykscprckfxgrwckh
xr-rgkrxckprcphfmrncAr.dci.mcirddcrghfvp,cjfkcykci.mcmyddsckhcjrcx.mpn
Prcehorxrwckprcd.mkclrics.xwmchlcpymcthfxgrsc.kc.cx.xrcjfxmkchlcmurrwn

Ykci.mc.kckpymcuhygkckp.kcprcwymehorxrwckp.kckprcdyvpkmcygckprcp.ddcp.w
jrrgcmiykeprwchllc.gwckp.kckprclxhgkcwhhxci.mcedhmrwc.gwcjhdkrwn


§c3

Ykcymckprchuygyhgchlc hmkckphfvpklfdcmkfwrgkmchlcdylrckp.kcp.uuygrmm
ygckpymcihxdwcwrurgwmcepyrldschgckprc.jydyksckhck.zrckpygvmc.mckprs
eh rnc.gcygmk.gerchlchgrciphc .scjrcm.ywckhcp.orcurxlrekrwckpym
.kkykfwrcymckhcjrclhfgwcygckprcixykygvmchlc.cerxk.ygcr ygrgkc.x.jy.g
.fkphxciphckrddmchlc.ckx.orddrxciph,cmygzygvckhcmdrruchgrc.lkrxghhg
fuhgc.cu.kepchlckfxlcehgk.ygygvc.gc.ehxg,cwymehorxrwciprgcprcihzrckp.k
kprci.x kpchlcpymcjhwscp.wce.fmrwckprc.ehxgckhcvrx yg.krc.gwckp.kcpr
i.mcghicmh rcmyqksclrrkc.jhorckprcvxhfgwcygckprcfuurxcjx.geprmchlc.
 .mmyorch.zncFg.jdrckhcwrmergw,cprcl.erwckprcmykf.kyhgcrbf.jdsnc“Y
e.gghk,”cprchjmrxorw,c“.w.ukceyxef mk.germckhc sciydd:ckprxrlhxrcY
mp.ddc.w.ukc sciyddckhceyxef mk.germncYcwreywrckhcxr .ygcprxrn”cIpyep
prcwywn

XfurxkcJ.qkrx,c.mcprcmkhhwcjrlhxrckprcj.xxrwcwhhxchlcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdr,
i.mcorxscl.xclxh cy yk.kygvckpymc.w yx.jdrcupydhmhuprxncKhclygwchgrmrdl
dhezrwchfkchlc.cehfgkxs-phfmrc.kcp.dl-u.mkckihcygckprc hxgygvcyg
dr hg-ehdhfxrwcust. .mce.gcgrorxcjrc.gcfg yqrwdsc.vxrr.jdrcrqurxyrger,
.gwcJ.qkrxci.mc.c .gcdrmmclykkrwcjscg.kfxrckhcrgwfxrcykciykpcrbf.gy yks
kp.gc hmkc rgncPymci.mc.clyrxsc.gwc.gc.xxhv.gkcmhfd,c.gwcprcmrrkprwcyg
lfxyhfmcxrjrddyhgc.v.ygmkckprcygkhdrx.jdrcuhmykyhgcygkhcipyepcL.krcp.w
 .gœfoxrwcpy ncPrcrorgcirgkcmhcl.xc.mckhcvyorckprclxhgkcwhhxc.curkfd.gk
zyezncLygwygv,cphirorx,ckp.kckpymcpfxkcpymckhrmc.gwc.eeh udymprwcgh
fmrlfdcrgw,cprc.wwxrmmrwcpy mrdlckhckprck.mzchlc.merxk.ygygvciprkprx
kprxrci.mc.gsci.schlcvrkkygvcyg--mphxkchlcj.gvygvckprczghezrxc.gw
xhfmygvckprcphfmr,c.cdygrchlc.ekyhgcipyepcwywcghkceh  rgwcykmrdlckh
py ncPrc .wrc.cux.ekyerchlc.ohywygvc.mcl.xc.mcuhmmyjdrckprcxyj.dwcksur
hlcshfgvc .gchlcipyepckprce.mkdrci.mcghiclfdd,c.gwcprcp.wcghcwrmyxrckh
 rrkckpr c.kckpymcphfxcygcpymcuxrmrgkcehmkf rncPrcdrlkckprclxhgkcwhhx
.gwcuxherrwrwckhc .zrc.ceyxefykchlckprce.mkdrci.ddm;c.gwcpymcmuyxykm
m.gzcrorgcdhirxncYgckprc ywwdrc.vrm,cwfxygvckp.kcmkhx scurxyhwchl
Rgvd.gw’mcpymkhxsciprgci.ddmcirxrcjfydkcmyqclrrkckpyezc.gwc.ciygwhici.m
ghkcmhc fepc.ciygwhic.mc.cp.gwscud.erclhxcuhfxygvc hdkrgcdr.wchgckpr
pr.wmchlcoymykhxm,cJd.gwygvmcp.wcjrrgc.gcy uxrvg.jdrclhxkxrmmncJfkcyg
.ddcykmce.xrrxcykce.gcmrdwh cp.orcdhhzrwc hxrchlc.clhxkxrmmckhc.gshgr
kp.gcykcwywcghickhckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxn

Hgrchlckprcwym.wo.gk.vrmchlcjrygvc.c .gchlc.ekyhg,cy urxoyhfmckhckpr
mhlkrxcr hkyhgm,cymckp.kcygc h rgkmchlckxy.dckprcjr.fkyrmchlcG.kfxrc.xr
uhirxdrmmckhcmhhkprckprc.gvfymprwcpr.xkncP.wcJ.qkrxcjrrgchlc.cwxr. s
.gwcuhrkyeckr urx. rgkcprc yvpkcghicp.orcjrrgcwx.iygvc.ddcmhxkmchl
j.d clxh ckprcdhordygrmmchlcpymcmfxxhfgwygvmncKprc.yxci.mclfddchlckpr
mergkchlcvxhiygvckpygvm;cmkx.gvr,cmpscexr.kfxrmce. rc.gwcirgkc.jhfkcpy 
.mcprci.dzrw;cwhigcygckprcihhwmc.cgyvpkygv.drcp.wcjrvfgckhcmygv;c.gw
kprxrci.mcmh rkpygvcvx.gwdsc .trmkyecygckprcpfvrcjfdzchlckprce.mkdr
.mcykckhirxrwc.v.ygmkckprcmzsncJfkcJ.qkrxcp.wckr uhx.xydscdhmkcpym
mrgmrchlcm rdd;cprclr.xrwc.gwcwymdyzrwckprcmkx.gvr,cmpscexr.kfxrm;ckpr
gyvpkygv.drcdrlkcpy cehdw;c.gwckprchgdsckphfvpkckprckhirxygvce.mkdr
ygmuyxrwcygcpy ci.mckp.kcykcdhhzrwc.mcylc.clrddhicihfdwcgrrwcp.dlc.ckhg
hlcwsg. ykrckhcvrkcygkhcykn

J.qkrxcu.fmrwncPrci.mcj.ezcghicgr.xckprcmuhkclxh cipyepcprcp.w
mk.xkrw,cp.oygvceh udrkrwckihcd.umciykphfkclygwygvc.gscmhdfkyhgchlcpym
wyllyefdkyrmncKprcywr.cygcpymc ygwcp.wcjrrgckhcmk.gwcfgwrxcmh rjhws’m
iygwhic.gwc.kkx.ekckprcmdrrurx’mc.kkrgkyhgciykpcmhlk,cmyvgylye.gk
ipymkdrmncJfkckprclyxmkcipymkdrcprcr ykkrwcp.wcmhfgwrwckhcpy cygckpr
mkyddgrmmchlcr.xdsc hxgcmhcdyzrc.cmkr. cmsxrgckp.kckprxr.lkrxcprcp.w
 rxrdscfkkrxrwcky yw,c hfmr-dyzrcmhfgwmcipyepckprcjxrrarmcp.wce.xxyrw
.i.sckprc h rgkckprscexrukchfkncPrcuxhuhmrwcghickhcp.dkclhxc.ipydr
.gwcxrmkcpymcdyumcjrlhxrc .zygvc.ghkprxc.kkr ukncPrcuxherrwrwckhckpr
krxx.erci.ddc.gwcm.kcwhigncKprcedhezchorxckprcmk.jdrmcmkxfezckpxrrn

KhckprcxrmkdrmmcksurchlckpygzrxcdyzrcXfurxkcJ.qkrx,ckprc.ekchlcmykkygv
whigcymcgr.xdsc.di.smckprcmyvg.dclhxckprcjx.ygckhcjrvygcihxzygvciykp
rorgc hxrckp.gcykmcefmkh .xscrgrxvsncKprcxrd.qrwcjhwscmrr mckhcygoykr
kphfvpknc.gwcJ.qkrx,cp.oygvcmfmurgwrwclhxckprc h rgkcpymcupsmye.d
.ekyoykyrm--.gwcvd.wckhcwhcmh,clhxcpymcmdyuurxmcpfxkcpy --v.orcpy mrdl
fuckhckrgmrcmurefd.kyhgc.mckhckprcpywygv-ud.erchlcD.wscEhgmk.ger
Zrrjdr’mcgrezd.erncLxh ckprcmuhkciprxrcprcghicm.kcprci.mcuxhj.jds,cpr
xrldrekrw,c.ekf.ddscygc.cuhmykyhgckhcmrrckp.kcpywygv-ud.er--ylchgds,
iprgcprcm.icyk,cprcirxrc.jdrckhcxrehvgymrcykclhxcip.kcykci.mncMh riprxr
hfkcprxr--ygcshgwrxcjfmprmchxcygcmh rcfgmfmurekrwcphdrcygcshgwrx
kxrr--kprctrirdmc fmkcp.orcjrrgcud.erwncHxcncncn

Mh rkpygvcmrr rwckhcvhchllcygmywrcJ.qkrxcdyzrc.ckhfeprwcmuxygvncHgr
 h rgk,cprci.mcmykkygvcdy uds,czrrgdscehgmeyhfmchlc.cjdymkrxchgckpr
mhdrchlcpymcdrlkclhhk;ckprcgrqk,cxrv.xwdrmmchlckprcjdymkrx,cprci.m
hllckprci.ddc.gwcx.eygvc .wdsc.dhgvckprckrxx.ercygc.cldfxxschlcldsygv
mdyuurxmncYgmuyx.kyhgcp.wceh rckhcpy n

W.scw.igmcr.xdscygckprcmf  rxc hgkpm,c.gwc.dxr.wsc.cmhxkchlcfgpr.dkps
u.ddhxcp.wcjrvfgckhc .gylrmkcykmrdlcygckprcmzsncYkci.mcmkyddcl.xclxh 
dyvpk,cjfkchjtrekmcpykprxkhcpywwrgcygckprcvdhh cp.wcjrvfgckhck.zr
hgcfgerxk.ygcmp.urnc.gwc. hgvckprmrckprxrcp.wceh rcygkhckprcdygrchl
J.qkrx’mcoymyhgc.cxhichlclylkrrgcldhirx-uhkmn

Kprxrckprscmkhhw,cmywrcjscmywr,cxhfgwc.gwcygoykygv,cr.epciykpc.
vrx.gyf cygcykmcjrwchlc hfdwncLylkrrgcldhirx-uhkmncKprxrcp.wchxyvyg.dds
jrrgcmyqkrrg,cjfkcJ.qkrxczgricghkpygvchlckp.knc.ddcprczgrici.mckp.kcpr
i.mchgckprckx.ydn

Kprcbfrmkclhxcjfxyrwckxr.mfxrcymchgrcipyepcxyvpkckpxhfvpckprc.vrm
p.mcrqrxeymrwc.gcyxxrmymkyjdrcmurddchorxcpf .gyksncEhglxhgkrwciykpc.
muhkciprxrcjfxyrwckxr.mfxrc .scdfxz,c rgcwhcghkcmk.gwcfuhgckprchxwrx
hlckpryxcwyvvygv;ckprscvhc.kcykciykpcjhkpcp.gwmncGhcmhdyeykfwrclhxcpym
r udhsrx’mcvrx.gyf mce. rckhcp. urxcXfurxkcJ.qkrx’mcxrmr.xeprmncKh
vx.muckprclyxmkcldhirx-uhkc.gwckydkchfkcykmcehgkrgkmci.mciykpcpy ckpr
ihxzchlc.c h rgkncPrcmex.jjdrwcpymclygvrxmckpxhfvpckprcdykkdrcuydrchl
 hfdwcncncn

Ghkpygvn

.cmrehgwcvrx.gyf cd.scjxhzrgchgckprcvxhfgwcncncn

Ghkpygvn

.ckpyxwcncncn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

KprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxcmkx.yvpkrgrwcpy mrdlcu.yglfddsncPrci.mcfgfmrwckh
mkhhuygv,c.gwcpymcj.ezc.eprwncJfkcupsmye.dcwymeh lhxkci.mclhxvhkkrgcyg
kprc.vhgschlcphurclxfmkx.krwnc.mcprcmkhhwckprxr,ciyuygvcpymclhxrpr.w
iykpc.gcr.xkp-mk.ygrwcp.gw,clylkrrgcvrx.gyf cehxumrmcv.arwcfuc.kcpy cyg
kprcvxhiygvcdyvpk,cykcmrr rwciykpcxruxh.epncJfkcJ.qkrxclrdkcghcxr hxmrn
Prcygedfwrwc.ddcvrx.gyf m,c.ddckpyrorm,c.gwc hmkchlckprcpf .gcx.ercyg
hgrceh uxrprgmyorcjd.ezcp.kxrwn

.ddckp.kcXfurxkcJ.qkrxci.gkrwcygckpymcihxdwcghici.mcjrwncKprcedhezchorx
kprcmk.jdrmcp.wctfmkcmkxfezclhfx,c.gwcprci.mc.i.xrchlc.gchorxuhirxygv
l.kyvfrncMh rphichxchkprx,cylcprcp.wckhcwyvckpxhfvpckprci.ddmciykpcpym
j.xrcp.gwm,cprc fmkcvrkcygkhckprcphfmrncPrcwx.vvrwcpy mrdlcu.yglfdds
lxh ckprcmergrchlce.xg.vrc.gwcjdygzrwcfuc.kckprcxhichlcmydrgkciygwhim
.jhorcpy ncPrci.mcu.mkcipymkdygvcghincPrcmkhhurwclhxc.curjjdr,c.gw
khmmrwcykcfuc.kckprcgr.xrmkciygwhin

Ghkpygvcp.uurgrwncIphrorxci.mcmdrruygvcfuckprxrcehgkygfrwckhcmdrruncKpr
mzscp.wckfxgrwcuygz,cjyxwmcirxrckiykkrxygvcygckprcyos,chkprxcjyxwmcp.w
jrvfgckhcmygvcygckprcjfmprmnc.ddcG.kfxr,cygcmphxk,ci.mci.zygv--rqeruk
kprcfgmrrgcmdfvv.xwcfucygckp.kcxhh n

Prckpxric.ghkprxcurjjdrcncncn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Ykcmrr rwckhcXfurxkcJ.qkrxckp.kcprcp.wcjrrgcmk.gwygvckprxrckpxhiygv
urjjdrmckpxhfvpc.cgyvpk .xrcrkrxgyksncKprciphdrcfgyorxmrcp.wcghicjreh r
ehgergkx.krwcygcpymcrllhxkmckhcxhfmrckp.kcdhv-dyzrcmdrrurx;c.gwclhxc.
jxyrlcygmk.gkcl.kyvfrcdrlkcpy ,cwxyorgc.i.scjsc.cmhxkchlcJrxmrxzclfxsn
.gwckprxrcldh.krwcygkhcpymc ygw,c.mcylclxh cmh rcuxroyhfmcrqymkrger,
.c r hxschlcmh rjhwschgercmk.gwygvcgr.xciprxrcprci.mcmk.gwygvcghic.gw
kpxhiygvc.cldhirx-uhkcygc.kc.ciygwhic.kcmh rhgrncIphcykci.mckp.kcp.w
kpxhigckprckpygvc.kciph ,cprcehfdwcghkc.kckprc h rgkcxre.dd;cjfkckpr
hfkmk.gwygvcuhygkchgcipyepcpymc ygwclhefmrwcykmrdlci.mckprcl.ekckp.k
kprc .gcp.wcp.wckprcxyvpkcywr.ncKpymci.mcghcky rclhxcurjjdrmncUrjjdrm
irxrclrrjdrc.gwcyg.wrbf.krncIykpchgrcohyerckprcjyxwm,ckprcjxrrarm,ckpr
vx.mmphuurxm,ckprciphdrcephxfmchlcG.kfxrci.zygvckhc.ghkprxcw.scmrr rw
khcmphfkckhcpy ,c“M.scykciykpcldhirx-uhkm!”


§c4

Kprc.jydyksckhcmdrrucmhfgwdsc.gwcwrrudscymckprcuxrxhv.kyor,c.mcp.mcjrrg
uhygkrwchfkcr.xdyrxcygckpymcmkx.yvpklhxi.xwcg.xx.kyorchlckprcmy udr
ph r-dylrchlckprcRgvdympcfuurxced.mmrm,chlckphmrciphcwhcghkckpygz
bfyezdsncKprcR.xdchlcR mihxkp,ciphcp.wcghkckphfvpkcbfyezdscmygerckpr
hee.myhgcygckprcmf  rxchlc1874ciprgcprcp.wcpr.xwcpymcl.kprx’mclhhkmkrum
.uuxh.epygvckprcmk.jdr-dhlkcygcipyepcpr,c.cd.wchlclylkrrg,cm.kcm hzygv
pymclyxmkceyv.x,ci.mc.gcrqerddrgkcmdrrurxncPrcmk.xkrwcr.xdsc.gw
lygymprwcd.krncYkci.mcpymcvrgkdrcjh.mkckp.kclhxc hxrckp.gckirgkscsr.xm
prcp.wcgrorxc ymmrwcpymclfddcryvpkcphfxmncVrgrx.ddscprc .g.vrwckhcvrk
mh rkpygvcgr.xrxckrgn

Jfkckprg,c.mc.cxfdr,curhudrcwywcghkcldygvcldhirx-uhkmckpxhfvpcpym
iygwhic.kclhfxcygckprc hxgygvn

Rorgcfgwrxckpymcfgfmf.dcp.gwye.u,cphirorx,cprcmkxfvvdrwcjx.ordsckh
uxrmrxorcpymcxrehxwncKprclyxmkchlcJ.qkrx’mc ymmydrm,cl.ddygvchgc.
mrkkrr,cuxhwferwcghcep.gvrcygcpymcxrvfd.xcjxr.kpygvncKprcmrehgw,cipyep
mkxfezckprce.xurk,ce.fmrwcpy ckhcmkyxncYkci.mckprckpyxw,cehddywygv
mp.xudsciykpcpymcpf urwcj.ez,ckp.kcwrlygykrdscihzrcpy ncPrcm.kcfucyg
jrwc.gwcmk.xrwc.kckprckpygvn

Ygckprclyxmkc h rgkchlcpymci.zygv,cxrdyrlci.m,chwwdscrghfvp,cpymcepyrl
r hkyhgncKprcjdhicp.wcxhfmrwcpy clxh c.cwymbfyrkygvcwxr. cygcipyepcpr
p.wcjrrgc.xvfygvciykpc.gvfmc e.ddymkrxc.jhfkcr.xdscmuxygvcjfdjm,c.gw
 e.ddymkrx,cihxmkrwcorxj.dds,cp.wcpykcpy cygckprcxyjmciykpc.cmufwncRorg
ygcpymcwxr. cDhxwcR mihxkpcp.wcjrrgcurxudrqrwc.mckhcip.kcpymcgrqkc hor
hfvpkckhcjr;c.gwciprgcprclhfgwcpy mrdlc.i.zrc.gwcygcpymcjrwxhh cpr
i.mc.kclyxmkc rxrdsckp.gzlfdckp.kckprcgrermmyksclhxc .zygvc.cwreymyhg
p.wc.kc.gscx.krcjrrgcuhmkuhgrwnc.gvfmc e.ddymkrxc yvpkchgcmh rclfkfxr
hee.myhgcm ykrcpy ciykpc.cmufw,cjfkcprcp.wcghkcwhgrcykcsrkn

Kprxrclhddhirwc.curxyhwchlco.vfrcjriydwrx rgkncPrcdhhzrwc.kckpr
ldhirx-uhkncYkcprdwcghc rmm.vrclhxcpy ncPrcp.wcghkcufkcykckprxrncPr
grorxckhhzcldhirx-uhkmckhcjrwncHger,c.mc.cepydw,cprcp.wck.zrgc.cwr.w
urkcx.jjyk,cjfkcgrorxc.cldhirx-uhkncKprciphdrc.ll.yxci.mceh udrkrds
ygmexfk.jdr;c.gwcpymcdhxwmpyu,cfg.jdrckhcmhdorckprc smkrxs,ci.mchgckpr
uhygkchlck.zygvckprcmk.krm .gdyzrcehfxmrchlcvhygvckhcmdrruc.v.yg,ciprg
mh rkpygvcd.xvrc.gwcmhdywcipyaarwckpxhfvpckprchurgciygwhic.gwcex.mprw
.v.ygmkckprci.dd,ciprxrcykcjxhzr,cjfkcghkcygkhcmfepcm .ddclx.v rgkm
kp.kcprcehfdwcghkcurxeryorckp.kcygcykmcuxy rcyk,ckhh,cp.wcjrrgc.
ldhirx-uhknc.gwc.kckpymc h rgkcpymcrsrmclrddchgckprce.xurkc.gwckprgchg
kprcmrkkrr;c.gwckprc.ll.yxcu.mmrwcmkyddcl.xkprxcygkhckprcxr.d chlckpr
ygrqudye.jdrncKprcPhgncLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhw,ciphcp.wc.cuhhxcmygvygv-ohyer
jfkci.mc.cv. rckxyrx,cp.wcjrrgc.gghsygvcpymcl.kprxchlcd.krcjscexhhgygv
.cj.dd.wcrgwygvcygckprcihxwm:

cccc“_Ykcymcghkcx.ygygvcx.ygc.kc.dd:_
cccccccc_Yk’mcx.ygygvcoy-h-drkmn_”

Ykcmrr rwckhcDhxwcR mihxkpcghickp.kc .kkrxmcp.wcvhgrc.cmkrucl.xkprxncYk
i.mcx.ygygvcldhirx-uhkmn

Kprcefmkh .xsc.kkykfwrchlckprcR.xdchlcR mihxkpckhi.xwmc.ddc fgw.gr
.ll.yxmci.mchgrchlco.vfrcwrk.ep rgk;cjfkckpymcuprgh rghgci.mcmh
xr .xz.jdrckp.kcprclhfgwcpy mrdlcmkyxxrwckhcbfykrc.cdykkdrcldfkkrx
hlcrqeykr rgkc.gwcygkrxrmkncPymcjx.ygcmkyddcxrlfmrwckhcehurciykpckpr
uxhjdr chlcipsc.gsjhwscmphfdwcjrckpxhiygvcldhirx-uhkmcygkhcpymcxhh c.k
kpymcphfx--hx,cygwrrw,c.kc.gscphfx;cjfkcykcmrr rwc.cvhhwcywr.ckhcvhc.gw
.merxk.ygciphckpymcurefdy.xcurxmhgci.mn

Prcufkchgcpymcvd.mmrmc.gwcphuurwchfkchlcjrwc.gwckxhkkrwckhckprciygwhin
.gwcykci.mcipydrcprci.mchgcpymci.sckprxrckp.kc r hxscmkyxxrwcygcpy ,c.m
mh rc ygfkrmc.vhcykcp.wcmkyxxrwcygckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxncPrcxre.ddrw
kp.kchwwcruymhwrchlc.clricw.smcj.ez,ciprgckp.kcwrdyvpklfdcvyxd,c ymm
Ip.k’m-prx-g. r,cp.wcyglhx rwcpy ckp.kcpymcmrexrk.xscp.wcjrrgckpxhiygv
ldhirx-uhkmc.kckp.kcuhrkclrddhi,c eKhwwncPrcp.wcjrrgc.gghsrw,cpr
xr r jrxrw,ckp.kcJ.qkrxcmphfdwcmhcl.xcp.orclhxvhkkrgcpy mrdlncGhi,
prclhfgwcpy mrdlc hxrclxyvpkrgrwckp.gc.gghsrwncTfmkc.mcrorxscwhvcym
urx ykkrwchgrcjykrciykphfkcp.oygvcykmcm.gykscbfrmkyhgrw,cmh,cylcshf
ehgmywrxcykcygc.cjxh.w- ygwrwci.s,c .scrorxsc .gcjrc.ddhirwckhckpxhi
hgrcldhirx-uhkncJfkcdrkckprckpygvcjreh rc.cp.jyk,c.gwcircdhhzc.mz.gern
Kpymcmkx.gvrcphjjschlcpymc.uur.xrwckhcjrcvxhiygvchgcJ.qkrxcdyzrc.
wxfv,c.gwcDhxwcR mihxkpcwywcghkcdyzrcykc.kc.ddncPrcp.wcgrorxcjrlhxr
mfmurekrwcpymcmrexrk.xschlc.gcfgj.d.gerwc ygw,cjfkcghicprc fmrw,c.m
prckyukhrwce.fkyhfmdsckhckprciygwhi,ckp.kckprcJ.qkrxcmhxkchlc .g,ckpr
rgrxvrkyecxrmkdrmmcksur,ci.mctfmkckprczygwckp.kcwhrmcvhchllcpymcpr.wn
Tfmkcmh rcmfepce.d. yksc.mckpym,cpymcdhxwmpyuclrdk,cprc yvpkcp.or
lhxrmrrgncW.scyg,cw.schfk,cXfurxkcJ.qkrxcp.wcjrrgcrqrxeymygvcpymcjx.yg
rorxcmygercprcp.wceh rckhckprce.mkdr--.gwcghicprcp.wcvhgrc.gwcmux.ygrw
ykncDhxwcR mihxkpcurrurwcky ywdschfkclxh cjrpygwc.cefxk.ygn

Pymcihxmkclr.xmcirxrcxr.dymrwncYkci.mcJ.qkrx,cmfxrcrghfvp;c.gwc.
khfmdrw,ciydw-rsrwcJ.qkrxcygexrwyjdsced.wcygcdr hg-ehdhfxrwcust. .mn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

DhxwcR mihxkpcmkruurwcj.ezclxh ckprciygwhincPrcp.wcmrrgcmfllyeyrgkncKpr
ust. .mcp.wcygcmh rcefxyhfmci.scmrkckprcehuygv-mkhgrchgcpymcwym .s,
.gwcprci.mcghicygc.cehgwykyhgc.uuxhqy .kygvckhcu.gyencKp.kcJ.qkrx
mphfdwcjrcmhcyxxrmymkyjdscy urddrwcjscpymcmkx.gvrc .gy.c.mc.ekf.dds
khch ykckhc.kkyxrcpy mrdlcwrergkdscjrlhxrcvhygvchfkchgchgrchlckprmr
ldhirx-uhk-pfxdygvcrqurwykyhgmchlcpymcmrr rwckhc .zrcykc.ddcmhcm.wc.gw
phurdrmmncKprcwxr. scurrxci.mcghcuhdkxhhg,cjfkcprci.mcu.mkcpymclyxmk
shfkp,c.gwcykce. rckhcpy corxsclhxeyjdsckp.kckprcygkrxoyriygvc.gw
u.eylsygvchlcmrexrk.xyrmciphcx.gc. hzci.mcshfgvc .g’mcihxzncPrcmkhdr
.exhmmckprcxhh c.gwchurgrwckprcwhhxncYkci.mcpymcufxuhmrckhcufkckpym
 .kkrxcygkhckprcp.gwmchlc.gc.vrgknc.gwcmhcykce. rc.jhfkckp.kcUm ykpci.m
.xhfmrwcmh rclric ygfkrmcd.krxclxh cmdf jrxcjsc.ckhfepchgckprc.x c.gw
m.kcfuckhclygwcpymcphmk’mcu.drcl.ercurrxygvc.kcpy cygckprciryxwcdyvpk
hlcr.xdsc hxgygvn

“ scwr.xclrddhi,”cbf.orxrwcDhxwcR mihxkpn

Um ykp,cdyzrcJ.qkrx,ci.mc.cdyvpkcmdrrurx;c.gwcykci.mchgdsc.c h rgk
jrlhxrcprci.mciywrc.i.zrc.gwcrqrxkygvcpy mrdlckhcwhckprcehfxkrmyrmn

“Vhhwc hxgygv,”cprcm.ywcudr.m.gkdsnc“Iyddcshfck.zrc.cmr.kn”

“Yc. crqkxr rdscmhxxsckhcjrchjdyvrwckhci.zrcshf,c scwr.xclrddhi,”cm.yw
pymcdhxwmpyu,c“jfkckprcl.ekchlckprc .kkrxcym,c scmrexrk.xs,cJ.qkrx,cp.m
vhgrchllcpymcpr.wn”

“ fep?”cygbfyxrwcUm ykp,cygkrxrmkrwn

“Prcymchfkcygckprcv.xwrgcygcpymcust. .m,ckpxhiygvcldhirx-uhkmckpxhfvp
 sciygwhin”

“Ldhirx-uhkm?”

“Ldhirx-uhkm!”

“Hp,cldhirx-uhkm!”cm.ywcUm ykp,clxhigygvckphfvpklfdds,c.mcylcprcp.w
rqurekrwcykcihfdwcjrcmh rkpygvcrdmrnc“.gwcip.kcmkrumc.xrcshfcuxhuhmygv
khck.zr?cKp.kcymckhcm.s,”cprcirgkchg,c“fgdrmmcshfciympcpy ckhcehgkygfr
kpxhiygvcldhirx-uhkmn”

“ scwr.xclrddhicncncnc!”

“Mh rcurhudrcdyzrcyk,”crqud.ygrwcUm ykpnc“Jfkcshfcwhcghk?cBfykrcmh,
bfykrcmhncYcfgwrxmk.gwcurxlrekdsncIrc.ddcp.orchfxcdyzrmc.gwcwymdyzrmn
Irdd,cip.kcihfdwcshfcmfvvrmk?”

“Yci.mcphuygvckp.kcshfc yvpkcehgmrgkckhcvhcwhig--rx--p.oygvcuhmmyjds
.x rwcshfxmrdlciykpc.cvhhwcmkhfkcmkyez--.gwcygwfercpy ckhcwrmymkc.gw
xrkfxgckhcjrwn”

“.cmhfgwcmfvvrmkyhgcygcipyepcYce.gcmrrcghcld.i,”cm.ywcUm ykp
.uuxhoygvdsnc“Ylcshfciyddc .zrcshfxmrdlc.kcph rcygcprxr--u.xwhgc rclhx
ymmfygvcygoyk.kyhgmckhcshfcygcshfxchigcphfmr--Yciyddcmrrcip.kce.gcjr
whgrncYcp.orc.di.smclhfgwcEh x.wrcJ.qkrxc.cxr.mhg.jdrc .g,cxr.wsckh
irdeh rcmfvvrmkyhgmclxh chfkmywrcmhfxerm,c.gwcYcp.orcghcwhfjkckp.kcir
mp.ddcr.mydscjrc.jdrckhcxr.epcmh rc.xx.gvr rgkn”

Prcvhkchfkchlcjrw,c.gw,cp.oygvcufkchgcpymcmdyuurxm,c.gwcpymc hghedr,
u.fmrwcjrlhxrckprc yxxhxckhcjxfmpcpymcp.yxn

“Lhx,”cprcrqud.ygrw,c“hgrc fmkcjrcg.kksciprgcrgkrxygvckprcuxrmrgerchlc.
J.qkrxn”

Prcirgkckhckprcedhmrkc.gwckhhzclxh c. hgvc.cgf jrxchlcp.kmc.cgr.k
Ph jfxvncKprg,cp.oygvcmrdrekrwclxh c.cjhidchlcldhirxmchgckpr
 .gkrduyrerc.cmy udrcipykrcxhmr,cprcuyggrwcykcygckprceh.kchlcpym
ust. .-mfykc.gwc.gghfgerwcpy mrdlcxr.wsn


§c5

Kprcmfwwrgclxrmprkchlcoyeyhfmcrgrxvscipyepcp.wcmufxxrwckprcRllyeyrgk
J.qkrxchgckhcpymcxrergkcrqpyjykyhgchlc .xzm .gmpyucp.wcghkcd.mkrwn
Drkp.xvsci.mcexrruygvcj.ezchgcpy crorgc.mcprcmkhhurwckhcuyezcfuckpr
ldhirx-uhkcipyepcp.wclhfgwcykmcjyddrkchgcDhxwcR mihxkp’mcmuygrnc.gw,c.m
prcmkhhwckprxrc.lkrxcpfxdygvckp.kclyg.dc ymmydr,cprcp.wcxr.dymrwckp.k
kp.kci.mcpymcd.mkcmphkncYlckp.kcuxhwferwcghcxrmfdkm,cprci.mclygymprwn

.gw,c.mcl.xc.mcprcehfdwcv.kprx,cykcp.wcuxhwferwcghcxrmfdkmcip.krorxn
Ghcpr.wcp.wcuhuurwcygbfyxygvdschfkchlckprciygwhincGhcmhfgwchlc.gsjhws
mkyxxygvcp.wcxr.eprwcpymcr.xmncKprcud.erci.mc.mcmkyddc.mcylcprcp.wcjrrg
kpxhiygvc .xmp- .ddhimnc.cir.xscmyvpcrme.urwclxh cJ.qkrx’mcdyumnc.gw
.c h rgkcd.krxcprci.mcxredygygvchgckprcvxhfgwciykpcpymcpr.wcuxhuurw
.v.ygmkckprckrxx.erci.dd,c.cjr.krgc .gn

PymcrsrmcedhmrwncMdrru,cipyepcprcp.wcjrrgcwrgsygvckhcpy mrdlclhxcmh
dhgv,cihfdwcjrcwrgyrwcghc hxrncIprgcUm ykpc.xxyorw,cw.ygkydscmiygvygv
kprcPhgncLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhw’mcgyjdyezcdyzrc.cedhfwrwce.gr,cprcp.wctfmk
jrvfgckhcmghxrn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Um ykpci.mc.czygwdscmhfdncPrcwywcghkcdyzrcXfurxkcJ.qkrx,cjfkckp.kci.m
ghcxr.mhgcipscprcmphfdwc.ddhicpy ckhcehgkygfrcdsygvchgckfxlcirkciykp
kprc hxgygvcwri,ckpfmcehfxkygvcdf j.vhc.gwcmey.kye.ncPrcuxhwwrwcJ.qkrx
ygckprcmkh .epciykpckprcgyjdyez,c.gwckprcmrexrk.xscm.kcfu,cjdygzygvn
.gwciykpcxrkfxgygvcehgmeyhfmgrmmce. rc.cjfxgygvcmrgmrchlcvxyro.gern

“Irdd,cshf’orcjrrgcdhgvcrghfvp,”cprcvxhidrwncKprg,c.mcprcxfjjrwcpym
xrw-xy  rwcrsrmc.gwci.mc.jdrckhcmrrc hxrcedr.xds,cprcurxeryorwciphcyk
i.mckp.kcp.wceh rckhcpymcxrmefrncKprcmurek.edrchlcUm ykpchlc.ddcurhudr
jr. ygvcjrgyvgdscwhigc.kcpy ci.mc.gc.wwrwchllrgernc“Hp,cyk’mcshf?”cpr
m.ywc hxhmrdsn

“Ycygcurxmhg,”cm.ywcUm ykpcvrgy.ddsnc“.i.zr,cjrdhorw!c.i.zr,clhx
 hxgygvcygckprcjhidchlcgyvpkcp.mcldfgvckprcmkhgrckp.kcufkmckprcmk.xmckh
ldyvpk;c.gwcdh!ckprcpfgkrxchlckprcR.mkcp.mce.fvpkckprcMfdk.g’mckfxxrk
ygc.cghhmrchlcdyvpkncKprcMfdk.gcpy mrdl,”cprc.wwrw,c“shfciyddclygw
jrpygwcshgwrxciygwhi,cmurefd.kygvcywdschgcshfxc hkyormclhxcjfgvygv
ldhirx-uhkmc.kcpy ncIps,cylcYc .scorgkfxrckprcbfrmkyhg,c_wyw_cshf?”

J.qkrxci.mcygcghcehglywygvc hhwncIykphfkcxrudsygv,cprcxhmrckhcpymclrrk
.gwcmk.xkrwckhckxfwvrcir.xydsc.dhgvckprckrxx.erckhckprclxhgkcwhhxn
Um ykpclrddcygkhcmkrucjrmywrcpy n

“YlcYcirxrcshf,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“.gwcYchllrxckprcmfvvrmkyhgcygckprc hmk
ehxwy.dcmuyxykchlcvhhwiydd,cYcihfdwcfmrcrorxscrllhxkckhcuxrorgkckpym
u.mmyhgclhxcldygvygvcldhirx-uhkmclxh cvxhiygvcfuhgc rncYczghicshf
iyddcm.sckp.kcshfce.gck.zrcykchxcdr.orcykc.dhgr;ckp.kctfmkchgrc hxr
uhkcihg’kcpfxkcshf;cjfkce.gcshfcmkhuc.kchgr?cYmg’kcykctfmkckp.kclyxmk
ygmywyhfmcldhirx-uhkckp.kcwhrmc.ddckprc ymepyrl?cJrc.c .g,cEh x.wr
J.qkrx!”cPrcd.ywcpymcp.gwc.uur.dygvdschgckprcmrexrk.xs’mcmphfdwrxn
“Kprcgrqkcky rckprcex.oygvceh rmchgcshf,clyvpkcykncLyvpkcyk!c.xrcshf,
kprcpryxchlckprc.vrm,cvhygvckhcjreh rc.cmd.orckhc.cp.jyk?cKfmp!cShf
zghic.gwcYczghickp.kckprxrcymcjrkkrxcmkfllcygcshfckp.gckp.kncFmrcshfx
iydd-uhirx,c .g,cfmrcshfxciydd-uhirxn”

Ip.krorxcxrudscJ.qkrxc yvpkcp.orcygkrgwrwckhc .zrckhckpymcuhirxlfd
p.x.gvfr--.gwcpymc.kkykfwrc.mcprckfxgrwchgcpymceh u.gyhgcmfvvrmkrwckp.k
prcp.wc fepckhcm.s--i.mceprezrwcjsc.cohyerclxh c.jhorn

“J.qkrx!c scwr.xclrddhi!”

KprcR.xdchlcR mihxkp,cp.oygvchjmrxorwckprcmrexrk.xs’mc.i.zrgygvclxh 
kprcm.lrchjmrxo.kyhg-uhmkchlcUm ykp’mcjrwxhh ,c.gwcp.oygvcghkrwckp.kcpr
mrr rwckhcjrcrqpyjykygvcghcmyvgmchlcoyhdrger,cp.wcwreywrwckhc .zrcpym
uxrmrgerczghigncPymcu.gyecp.wcu.mmrw,c.gwcprci.gkrwckhcvhcygkhclyxmk
e.fmrmn

J.qkrxcv.arwci.gdscfuc.kckprciygwhin

“Yce.gcrqud.ygcrorxskpygv,cDhxwcR mihxkpn”

“Ip.k?”cm.ywcpymcdhxwmpyu,cdr.gygvcl.xkprxchfkn

“Yce.gcrqud.ygcrorxskpygv,”cjrddhirwcJ.qkrxn

“Ykckfxgmchfkc.lkrxc.dd,”cm.ywcUm ykpcudr.m.gkds,c“khcjrcorxscmy udrn
Prci.mcux.ekymygvclhxckprcTrxzygvcKprcVrx.gyf crorgkc.kckprcgrqk
Hds uyecV. rmn”

DhxwcR mihxkpc.wtfmkrwcpymcvd.mmrmn

“Shfxcl.ercymcwyxks,”cprcm.yw,currxygvcwhigc.kcpymcwymprorddrw
mrexrk.xsnc“J.qkrx,c scwr.xclrddhi,cshfxcl.ercymcwyxksn”

“Yci.mcwyvvygv,”cxrudyrwcJ.qkrxcmfddrgdsn

“Ip.k?”

“Wyvvygv!”

“Kprckrxxyrxceh udrq,”crqud.ygrwcUm ykpnc“Ip.k,”cprc.mzrwczygwds,
kfxgygvckhcpymceh u.gyhg,c“irxrcshfcwyvvygvclhx?cLhxvyorc rcylckpr
bfrmkyhgcmrr mc.gcy urxkygrgkchgr,cjfkcirc.xrcg.kfx.ddscefxyhfmn”

J.qkrxcprmyk.krwn

“Ip.kcirxrcshfcwyvvygvclhx?”c.mzrwcDhxwcR mihxkpn

“Shfcmrr,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“_Pr_ci.gkmckhczghin”

Ghkclhxckprclyxmkcky rcmygerckprscp.wcjreh rc.mmhey.krw,c.c .wclrrdygv
hlcyxxyk.kyhgc.kcpymcr udhsrx’mcihhddscurxmymkrgercld.xrwcfucyg
XfurxkcJ.qkrx’mcjhmh ncKprchdwc.mmci.mc.di.smcuhkkrxygvc.jhfkc.mzygv
bfrmkyhgmncLfxsc.gwci.gkchlcmdrruceh jygrwckhcwfddckprcmrexrk.xs’m
ghx .dcuxfwrgerncWy dscprcxr.dymrwckp.kcprci.mcy u.xkygvcUm ykp,ckpr
mehfgwxrdciphcprci.mcehgoygerwci.mckprcxygvdr.wrxchlcd.mkcgyvpk’m
hfkx.vr,co.df.jdrcyglhx .kyhg;cjfkc.gskpygvci.mcjrkkrxckp.gckhcp.orckh
mk.gwcprxrcmphfkygvcfuc.kcDhxwcR mihxkpncPrci.gkrwckhcvrkcykchorxc.gw
vhckhcjrwn

“YckphfvpkcD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcgrezd.erci.mcygchgrchlckprcldhirx-uhkm,”cpr
mpxyddrwn

“Ip.k?”

Kprcmrexrk.xs’mcuhirxmchlcrgwfx.gercv.orchfkncKpymc .wwrgygv
ygbfymykyhg,ceh ygvchgckhuchlckprcxrmkdrmmcgyvpkcprcp.wcp.w,ci.mckhh
 fepclhxcpy ncIykpc.cdhic h.gcprc .wrchgrc.vhgymrwcdr.uclhxckprclxhgk
whhxc.gwcu.mmrwckpxhfvpcykckhciprxrcjrshgwckprmrcohyermckprxrci.mcur.ern

Um ykp,cwruxyorwckpfmc.jxfukdschlcpymcmky fd.kygvcmheyrks,cxr .ygrw
lhxcmh rc h rgkmcmk.gwygvcgr.xckprclxhgkcwhhx,cwxygzygvcygciykpcvx.or
.uuxho.dckprclxrmpcmergkmchlckprcmf  rxc hxgygvncYkci.mc .gscsr.xm
mygercprcp.wcjrrgcfuc.gwc.jhfkc.mcr.xdsc.mckpym,c.gwcprcp.wclhxvhkkrg
phicwrdyvpklfdckprclyxmkcjrvyggygvmchlc.cTfdscw.sce.gcjrncFgdyzr
J.qkrx,chgciphmrcmrdl-ergkxrwcmhfdckprmrckpygvmcp.wcjrrgcdhmk,cpr
xrorddrwcygckprcmhlkcjxrrarm,ckprcmygvygvcjyxwm,ckprcvxhiygvcuygzgrmm
hlckprcr.mkrxgcmzsncPrc.ihzrc.kcdrgvkpclxh cpymcxrorxyrckhclygwckp.k
DhxwcR mihxkpcp.wckhwwdrwcwhigc.gwci.mck.uuygvcpy chgckprc.x n

“_Ip.k_cwywcprcm.s?”cygbfyxrwcpymcdhxwmpyuncPrci.mclrrdygvcdyzrc.
 .gciphcp.mcjrrgcefkchllcygckprc ywmkchlc.gc.jmhxjygvckrdruphgr
ehgorxm.kyhgn

“M.s?”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Hp,cEh x.wrcJ.qkrx?cGhi,cdrkc rckpygzncIp.kc_wyw_
prcm.s?”

“Mh rkpygvc.jhfkcmh rkpygvcjrygvcygc.cldhirx-uhk,”cuxh ukrwcpym
dhxwmpyun

“.p,csrmncPrcm.ywcprckphfvpkckp.kcD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcgrezd.erci.mcygchgr
hlckprcldhirx-uhkmn”

“Ip.k!”

DhxwcR mihxkp,cykcmphfdwcjrc rgkyhgrw,ci.mcghkceh udrkrdscygckhfepciykp
xrergkcp.uurgygvmcygcpymcph rncPymcp.jykchlcvhygvcr.xdsckhcjrwcp.w
e.fmrwcpy ckhc ymmckprcmrgm.kyhg.dcrorgkmcygckprcwx.iygv-xhh :c.gw,
.mcprci.mc.cmhfgwcmdrrurx,ckprcmfjmrbfrgkcmexr. m--hx,c.mcMkhzrmckpr
lhhk .gcihfdwcp.orcm.yw,cmpxyrzm--p.wcghkcwymkfxjrwcpy ncPrcmk.xrwc.k
Um ykp,c.vp.mkncLhxc.cipydrckprc.uu.xrgkcud.eywykschlcJ.qkrxcp.wcdfddrw
pymclyxmkcmfmuyeyhgm,cjfkcghickprscxrkfxgrwciykpcxrgrirwclhxern

“J.qkrxckphfvpkc scmymkrx’mcgrezd.erci.mcygc.cldhirx-uhk?”cprcv.murwn

“MhcYcfgwrxmkhhwcpy ckhcm.sn”

“Jfkcipscmphfdwc scmymkrxczrrucprxcgrezd.ercygc.cldhirx-uhk?”

“.p,ckprxrcshfck.zrc rcygkhcwrruci.krxmn”

“Kprc .g’mc .w,”cexyrwcDhxwcR mihxkp,cpymcd.mkcwhfjkmcxr horwnc“Mk.xz,
mk.xygvc .w!cYckphfvpkcmhcjrlhxr,c.gwcghicY’ cehgoygerwchlcykn”

Pymcdhxwmpyuci.mcghcghoyercygckprcms ukh mchlcygm.gyksncMrorx.dchl
pymcjrmkclxyrgwmcirxrcxrmywygvcygckphmrcu.d.ky.dcrmk.jdymp rgkmcmrk
ygcudr.m.gkcu.xzmc.gwcmfxxhfgwrwcjscpyvpci.ddmciykpcjxhzrgcjhkkdrmchg
kpr ,ckhcipyepckprcir.dkpsc.gwc.xymkhex.kyec.xrcihgkckhcxrkyxrciprg
kprcmkx.ygchlc hwrxgcdylrcjreh rmckhhcvxr.knc.gwchgrchlcpymcfgedrmcjs
 .xxy.vr,ciphcjrdyrorwckp.kcprci.mc.cdh.lchlcjxr.w,cp.wc .wrcpymclyxmk
ufjdyecmk.kr rgkchgckprc .kkrxcygckprcm hzygv-xhh chlckpymcorxsce.mkdrn
Ip.kcDhxwcR mihxkpcwywcghkczghic.jhfkcdfg.kyemci.mcghkcihxkpczghiygvn

“Yc fmkcvrkcxywchlcpy ,”cprcm.ywnc.gwc.kckprckphfvpkckprcl.yxc hxgygv
mrr rwckhcDhxwcR mihxkpckhck.zrchgc.cmfwwrgcgricjr.fksnc .gsc.cky r
p.wcprckhsrwciymklfddsciykpckprcywr.chlcwym ymmygvcpymcrllyeyrgkcjfk
ksx.ggye.dcmrexrk.xs,cjfkcgrorxcjrlhxrcp.wckp.kcmyezrgygvdsceh urkrgk
shfgvc .gcvyorgcpy c.gscxr.mhg.jdrce.fmrckhc.ekncPykprxkh,c hxrhorx,cpr
p.wclr.xrwcpymcmymkrx’mcix.kpcmphfdwcprck.zrckprcudfgvrncJfkcghicncncn
MfxrdscrorgcEhggyr,cuyv-pr.wrwc.mcmprci.m,cehfdwcghkcjd. rcpy clhx
wymurgmygvciykpckprcmrxoyermchlc.cmrexrk.xsciphckphfvpkcmprczrukcprx
grezd.ermcygcldhirx-uhkm,c.gwcirgkchfkcygkhckprcv.xwrgcygckprcr.xds
w.igckhcpfxdckpr c.kcpymcjrwxhh ciygwhin

Pymcwr r.ghfxckhhzchgc.cmfwwrgcjfhs.gesncPrcpf  rwc.cv.sc.yxn

“Vrkcxywchlcpy ,”cprc fx fxrw,cxhddygvckprcjdrmmrwcihxwmcxhfgwcpym
khgvfrncPrcu.kkrwcUm ykpcvrgy.ddschgckprcmphfdwrxnc“Irdd,c scwr.x
lrddhi,”cprcm.yw,c“Ycmfuuhmrcircp.wcjrkkrxcjrcvrkkygvcj.ezckhcjrwc.gw
mrrygvcylcirce.g’kcvrkc.cdykkdrcmdrrun”

Um ykpcv.orc.cdykkdrcmk.xkncPrcp.wcjrrgcmh rip.kcwrrudscy  rxmrwcyg
kphfvpkn

“Whcghk,”cprcm.ywcehfxkrhfmds,c“drkc rczrrucshfclxh ckprcp.scylcshf
iympckhcxrkyxrncKhc r--shfczghicip.kcircuhrkmc.xr--kpymcdhordsc hxgygv
p.mcjxhfvpkcygmuyx.kyhgncYckpygzcYciyddcufmpchllckhc scdykkdrcghhzcyg
kprcihhwm,c.gwcixykrc.cuhr c.jhfkcmh rkpygvn”

Prc.eeh u.gyrwcpymcphmkcfuckprcmydrgkcmk.yxm,c.gwckprscu.xkrwciykp
 fkf.dcvhhwciyddc.kckpryxcxrmurekyorcwhhxmncUm ykp,cp.oygvcedr.xrwcpym
jx.ygciykpc.cpfxxyrwcehdwcj.kp,cjrv.gckhcwxrmmn

.mc.cxfdr,ckprcwhggygvchlcpymcedhkprmci.mc.cmhdr gcerxr hgschorx
ipyepcprcwirdkcdhoygvds;cjfkckpymc hxgygvcprc.j.gwhgrwcpymcefmkh .xs
drymfxrdscp.jykncPrcedy jrwcygkhcpymckxhfmrxmciykpc.gy .kyhg,c.gw
dygvrxrwcjfkc.c h rgkchorxckprcksygvchlcpymckyrncPrci.mcehgoygerwckp.k
kprxrci.mckp.kcjrlhxrcpy cipyepcihfdwcu.sclhxcp.mkrn

Ghkpygvcygckpymcihxdwcymcm.wwrxckp.gckprclxrbfrgesciykpcipyepcir
mfmurekchfxclrddhimciykphfkctfmkce.fmrncYgckprcp.uurgygvmchlckprcgyvpk
jrlhxr,cUm ykpcp.wcmrrgckprcp.gwchlcRwi.xwcEhhkrmncRwi.xwcEhhkrm,cpr
ehgmywrxrw,cp.wcjrrgcygwfdvygvcygcip.k--ygc.ghkprx--prcihfdwcerxk.ygds
p.orcwrmexyjrwc.mclfggscjfmygrmmncDyzrc ymmcMy  hgm,cUm ykpcp.wcbfyezds
.xxyorwc.kckprcehgedfmyhgckp.kckprcgrezd.ercp.wcjrrgckpxhigchfkchl
kprcwx.iygv-xhh ciygwhicjschgrchlckphmrciphc .wrcfuckprc.fwyrgerc.k
pymcxr.wygv:c.gwcykci.mcpymclyx cjrdyrlckp.kcykcp.wcjrrgcuyezrwcfu
.gwcpywwrgcjsc xncEhhkrmncPrcp.wcjrrgckxsygvckhckpygzcrorxcmyger
iprxrckp.kcurxmrorxygvc .gcehfdwcp.orcehger.drwcyk,c.gwcJ.qkrxcp.w
uxhoywrwckprcedfrncJfkcUm ykpcm.icedr.xrxckp.gcJ.qkrxncKprcmrexrk.xs,
p.oygvcwymr jhirddrwclylkrrgcldhirx-uhkmc.gwclhfgwcghkpygv,cp.w
.j.gwhgrwcpymckprhxsncUm ykpcirgkclfxkprx,c.gwcmfmurekrwckprcrqymkrger
hlc.cmyqkrrgkpnc.gwcprcuxhuhmrwc.mcmhhgc.mcprci.mcwxrmmrwckhcm.dds
whigmk.yxmcygcmr.xepchlcykn

Prcufkchgcpymcmphrm,c.gwcdrlkckprcxhh ,cjfkkhgygvcpymci.ymkeh.kc.mcpr
irgkn


§c6

Kprcp.gwmchlckprcedhezchorxckprcmk.jdrmcirxrcuhygkygvckhcp.dl-u.mk
lyorciprgcRorcP.ddyw.s,ckyukhrygvclfxkyords,c .wrc.ghkprxcwrmergkchl
kprcmk.yxmncPrxclrrdygvmc.mcmprcirgkcirxrcorxscwyllrxrgkclxh ckphmr
ipyepcp.wce.fmrwcprxckhctf uc.kcrorxscmhfgwciprgcmprcp.wcmk.xkrwchg
kpymcm. rcthfxgrsckpxrrcphfxmcr.xdyrxncKprg,cmprcp.wcjrrgc.cuxhidrx
ygckprcw.xzgrmmc.gw,c.mcmfep,c.clykkygvchjtrekchlcmfmuyeyhg:cghi,cyl
mprcp.uurgrwckhcxfgcygkhc.gsjhws,cmprci.mc rxrdsc.cvyxdciph,cfg.jdr
khcmdrru,cp.wcxymrgcr.xdsckhck.zrc.cmkxhddcygckprcv.xwrgncYkci.mc.
wymkygekyhgckp.kc .wrc.ddckprcwyllrxrgern

 hxrhorx,cykcehorxrwckprcl.ekmncMprcp.wcghkcjrrgc.jdrckhcmdrru--rqeruk
lhxc.gcphfxciprgcmprcp.wcwharwchllcygc.cep.yxcjscprxciygwhi;c.gwcmpr
erxk.ygdscuxhuhmrwckhck.zrc.cmkxhddcygckprcv.xwrgncYkci.mcprxcygkrgkyhg
khcxrehorxckprcgrezd.erclxh ckprcud.erciprxrcmprcp.wcwruhmykrwcyk,c.gw
jfxscykcmh riprxrciprxrcghchgrcehfdwcuhmmyjdsclygwcykncKprxrcykcehfdw
dyrcfgkydcmprcp.wc.cep.gerchlc rrkygvc.gwck.dzygvckhc xncZrrjdr,c.gw
.merxk.ygygvcip.kci.mckprcgrqkcmkrucprciymprwck.zrgn

Kihcxr.mhgmcp.wcdrwcRor,c.lkrxc .zygvcprxcu.gyecw.mpcj.ezcygkhckpr
phfmrc.lkrxcdfxzygvcygckprcjfmprmcipydrcJ.qkrxcu.kxhddrwckprckrxx.er,
khcdr.orcprxcuxreyhfmcldhirx-uhkchgckprcmyddchlckprciygwhicjrmywrckpr
lxhgkcwhhxncMprcp.wcxr.wcygcmkhxyrmchlcmrgm.kyhgckp.kclhxcufxuhmrm
hlcehger.d rgkckprc hmkchurgcud.ercymckprcjrmkcud.er:c.gw,cmrehgwds,
kprcgr.xrxckprclxhgkcwhhxcmprcufkckprcldhirx-uhk,ckprcdrmmcwymk.ger
ihfdwcmprcp.orckhce.xxscykciprgckprcky rce. rclhxcykmcxr ho.dncYg
kprcuxrmrgkcrqeykrwcehgwykyhgchlckprcphfmrphdw,ciykpcrorxscvfrmkc.g
. .krfxcwrkrekyor,ckprcmurek.edrchlc.cvyxdckxyuuygvcwhigmk.yxmciykpc.
ldhirx-uhkcygcprxc.x mcihfdwcrqeykrcxr .xzn

Rorclrdkcrqpyd.x.krwncMprci.mcghkcfmrwckhcvrkkygvchgdschgrcphfx’mcmdrru
ygckprcehfxmrchlc.cgyvpk,cjfkcrqeykr rgkc.gwckprcxrldrekyhgckp.kcmpr
p.wcud.srwc.cwyllyefdkcv. rc.gwcihgcykc.v.ygmkchwwmcjhxrcprxcfucmh
mkxhgvdsckp.kcmprci.mcghkcehgmeyhfmchlcl.kyvfr:c.gwcmhcfudylkrwcwywcmpr
lrrdckp.kc.mcmprcxr.eprwckprcd.gwygvc.jhorckprcp.ddcmprc.j.gwhgrwcprx
e.fkyhfmc hwrchlcuxhvxrmmc.gwcx.gcwhigckprcxr .ygygvcmk.yxmncMprcp.w
kprcmrgm.kyhgchlcjrygvcygckprcd.mkclrics.xwmchlc.ciyggygvcx.ern

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Kprcp.ddci.mcbfykrcdyvpkcghincRorxschjtrekcygcykci.mcud.ygdscoymyjdrn
Kprxrci.mckprcpfvrcwyggrx-vhgv:ckprxrci.mckprcdhgvcdr.kprxcmrkkrr:
kprxrci.mckprck.jdrcipyepcmprcp.wcfumrkcygckprcw.xzgrmmnc.gwckprxrci.m
kprcmyddchlckprciygwhicjsckprclxhgkcwhhxncJfkckprcldhirx-uhkcipyepcp.w
jrrgchgcykci.mcvhgrn




EP.UKRXcQYY

 HXRcHGcKPRcLDHIRX-UHKcKPR R


Ygc.gsceh  fgykscygcipyepc.cmrgm.kyhg.dcexy rcp.mcxrergkdscjrrg
eh  ykkrw,ckprclrrdygvmchlckprcygwyoywf.dmciphcvhckhc .zrcfuckp.k
eh  fgyksc fmkchlcgrermmyksco.xscmh rip.kcmp.xudsc.eehxwygvckhckpr
wrvxrrcygcipyepckprcurxmhg.dclhxkfgrmchlcr.epc.xrc.llrekrwcjsckpr
hfkx.vrncOyoywcygckpryxchigci.sc.mc .scjrckprcr hkyhgmchlchgrciphcmrrm
.clrddhi-eykyargcm.gwj.vvrwcygc.cbfyrkcmkxrrk,ckprscwyllrxcygczygwclxh 
kphmrcrqurxyrgerwcjsckprcoyeky cpy mrdlnc.gwcmh,ckphfvpckprckprlkchl
D.wscEhgmk.gercZrrjdr’mcwy. hgwcgrezd.ercp.wcmkyxxrwcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdr
khcykmcwrukpm,cykcp.wcghkc.llrekrwc.ddckphmrcuxrmrgkcygcbfykrckpr
m. rci.sncYkcdrlkckprcphfmr-u.xkscwyoywrwcygkhckihcwymkygekcmephhdm
hlckphfvpk--kprchgrclygwygvcygckprcheefxxrgerc .krxy.dclhxcvdhh c.gw
wrmuhgwrges,ckprchkprxcwrxyoygvclxh cykcghkpygvcjfkcthslfdcrqeykr rgkn

Khckpymcd.kkrxcmrekyhgcjrdhgvrwckphmrclxrrcshfgvcmuyxykmciphcp.w
ep.lrwc.kckprcuxhmurekchlcjrygvcprxwrwcygkhckprcwx.iygv-xhh chgckpr
rorgklfdcgyvpkckhcdymkrgckhcUm ykp’mcxr.wygvchlc_MhgvmchlcMbf.dhx_n
Ykc .wrckpr ckxr jdrcghickhckpygzchlcip.kckprscihfdwcp.orc ymmrw,cp.w
D.wscEhgmk.ger’mcoyvyd.gercxrd.qrwcmfllyeyrgkdsckhcrg.jdrckpr ckh
rqrefkrckprcbfyrkcmgr.zclhxckprcjyddy.xw-xhh chlcipyepcrorgc.kckpr
rdrorgkpcphfxckprscp.wckphfvpkcmhciymklfddsnc.mcl.xc.mckprcXrvvyrm,
Jrxkyrm,cEd.fwrm,c.gwc.xepyrmc.kckp.kc h rgkcrgthsygvcDhxwcR mihxkp’m
phmuyk.dykscirxrcehgerxgrwckprckpygvci.mckhu-phdr,cuxyerdrmm,c.gw
ygwymufk.jdscip.kckprcwhekhxchxwrxrwncKprscmurgkc.cvxr.kcwr.dchlckpryx
ky rcvhygvclxh chgrcehfgkxs-phfmrckhc.ghkprx,c.gwc.mc.cxfdrclhfgwckpr
xhfkygrc.cdykkdrc hghkhghfmnc.cp.uurgygvcdyzrckp.kchlckprcuxroyhfm
gyvpkcv.orc.cmudrgwywcayuckhcxfx.dcdylrnc.gwciprgckprscxrldrekrwckp.k,
xyvpkchgckhuchlckpymcjygvr,ckprxrci.mceh ygvckprcEhfgkscJ.dd,cykcmrr rw
khckpr ckp.kcVhwci.mcygcPymcpr.orgc.gwc.ddcxyvpkciykpckprcihxdwncKprs
mkfezceyv.xrkkrmcygcdhgvcphdwrxm,c.gwcehddrekrwcygcvxhfum,cep.kkrxygv
dyzrcmk.xdygvmn

Kprcvdhh scjxyv.wr,ckphmrciykpcpr.xkmcjhirwcwhig,cdymkrgrwckhckpryx
rllrxormergkcj.jjdygvciykpci.gcwymk.mkrncKprmrcd.mkcirxrc.cm .ddcjhws
gf rxye.dds,cjfkcorxscmrdrekncD.wscEhgmk.gerc yvpkcp.orcjrrgcwrmexyjrw
.mckpryxcpr.wc.gwcu.kxhgrmmnc hxgygvclhfgwcprxcmkyddcygc.cmk.kr
jhxwrxygvchgcehdd.umrnc.lkrxcjxr.zl.mk,cphirorx,cipyepcmprckhhzcygcprx
xhh ,c.gwcipyepci.mcmirrkrgrwcjsc.gcygkrxoyriciykpc xncThmrupcZrrjdr,
prxcpfmj.gw,cmprcjxyvpkrgrwcehgmywrx.jdsnc xncZrrjdr,ckphfvpkcD.ws
Ehgmk.ger,cjrp.orwc .vgylyergkdsncMprcp.wc.di.smcdhorwcpy cwr.xds,cjfk
grorxcmhc fepc.mciprg,c.jmk.ygygvclxh ckprcmdyvpkrmkcxruxh.epchlcprx
hjmkyg.escygcxrlfmygvckhc.ddhickprctrirdmckhcjrcud.erwcygckprcj.gz,cpr
mu.eyhfmdscyglhx rwcprxckp.kcprcihfdwcjfscprxc.ghkprxcgrezd.er,ctfmk
.mcvhhwc.gwcehmkygvcrorxscurggsc.mc fepc.mckprchdwchgrncYkci.mc.kckpym
uhygkckp.kcD.wscEhgmk.gerc.d hmkcmrerwrwclxh ckprcx.gzmchlcvdhh ncMpr
zymmrwc xncZrrjdrcvx.krlfdds,c.gwc.kk.ezrwciykpcmh rkpygvc.uuxh.epygv
.gy .kyhgckprcjhydrwcrvvc.kcipyepcmprcp.wcjrrgcurezygvciprgcprce. rcygn

Jfkc.clric ygfkrmcd.krxckprc.orx.vrchlcwrmu.yxci.mcxrmkhxrwcjsckpr
rgxhd rgkchlc xncZrrjdrcygckprcx.gzmchlckprcwrmuhgwrgkncPrcp.w
vd.wmh rdsc.mmf rwchorxgyvpkckp.kchgrchlcpymc.vrgkm,crykprxcRorchx
Lxrwwyr,cp.wcjrrgcxrmuhgmyjdrclhxckprcwym.uur.x.gerchlckprcgrezd.ern
Kprcl.ekckp.kcLxrwwyr,cygkrxoyrirwcjscmkr.dkpcygcpymcxhh ,cv.uygvds
wymed.y rwc.gscmp.xrcygckprc .kkrxcp.wcghkcw. urwcpy ncPrcp.wcgrorx
rqurekrwcxrmfdkmclxh cLxrwwyrncJfkciprg,c.lkrxcdr.oygvcD.wscEhgmk.ger,
prcrgehfgkrxrwcRorc.gwci.mcvyorgc.cmphxkchfkdygrchlcpymkhxs,cjrvyggygv
iykpcprxc.ebfymykyhgchlckprcgrezd.er,c.gwcrgwygv--dyzrc.c hwrxg
ghord--hgckprcmh jxrcghkrchlcprxclygwygvckprcldhirx-uhkcvhgr,cprckhh
m.kcpy cwhigc.gwc hfxgrwc.mcwrrudsc.mc.gshgrn

U.mmygvciykpc.cjxyrlc rgkyhgchorxcLxrwwyr,ciphmrc hxhmrcjr.xygvci.m
kprcmfjtrekchlcehgmywrx.jdrceh  rgkc. hgvckprcshfgvrxcmrk;chorxcDhxw
R mihxkp,ciphcihzrc.kckirdorch’edhezcwymvfmkrwckhclygwckp.kcprcp.w
 ymmrwcmrorx.dcphfxmc. hgvcpymcjrdhorwcldhirx-jrwm;c.gwchorxckpr
RllyeyrgkcJ.qkrx,ciphci.mcxhfmrwclxh cmdrruc.kckirdor-lylkrrgcjscKph .m
kprclhhk .gczghezygvchgcpymcwhhxcygchxwrxckhcp.gwcpy c.cghkrclxh cpym
r udhsrxcrgedhmygvc.ceprbfr,c.gwcwymurgmygvciykpcpymcmrxoyerm;circeh r
khc ymmcUr.orsn

.kckirgksc ygfkrmcu.mkcrdrorgchgckpymc hxgygvciprgcmhc fepci.m
p.uurgygvckhcmhc .gscurhudr,c ymmcUr.orscmkhhwcygckprcSric.ddrscv.aygv
jrddyvrxrgkdsc.kckprcmkr drmmc fmpxhh clygy.dchlc.ckxrrc.jhfkcp.dl-i.s
jrkirrgckprcrgkx.gerc.gwckprcuhygkciprxrckprc.ddrsc rxvrwcygkhckpr
irmkcihhwncMprc.uur.xrwckhcjrcmhdydhbfymygvncLhx,ckphfvpcihxwmcirxr
uxherrwygvclxh cprxciykpcehgmywrx.jdrcx.uywyks,ckprxrcmrr rwckhcjrcgh
hgrcygcmyvpkckhciph ckprscirxrcjrygvc.wwxrmmrwncHgdsc.gcrqerukyhg.dds
zrrgchjmrxorxcihfdwcp.orcghkrwc.cmdyvpkcmyvgylye.gkcbfyorxygvc. hgvckpr
kxrr’mckyvpkds-ihorgcjx.geprmn

“Shfcuhhxcjhgr-pr.wrwclymp,”ckprcuhrkrmmci.mcm.sygvciykpckp.k
mkx.ygrwckrgmrgrmmcipyepcxrmfdkmclxh ckprcepfxgygvcfuchlc.cvrgrxhfm
.gwcr hkyhg.dcg.kfxr,c“ymg’kckprxrc.gskpygvcygckpymcihxdwcshfce.gcwh
iykphfkckf jdygvchorxcshfxclrrkc.gwc .zygvc.c rmmchlcyk?c.ddcYc.mzchl
shfcymckhcmkxhddcfgwrxc.ciygwhic.gwcuyezcfuc.clrictrirdm,c.gwcghicshf
eh rc.gwckrddc rcncncn”

“Jfk,cDya!”cm.ywckprckxrrcud.ygkyordsn

“Ycwhc.ddckprcwyllyefdkcu.xkchlckprcthjnc.ddckp.kckprxrci.mcdrlkclhx
shfckhcp.gwdrci.mcmh rkpygvc.cepydwchlckpxrrcehfdwcp.orcwhgrchgcykm
r.xnc.gwcghicncncn”

“Jfk,cDya!cY’ ckrddygvcshfcYcehfdwg’kclygwckprcmkfllncYci.mcwhigckprxr
.ddcxyvpk,cjfkcYcehfdwg’kclygwcykn”

“Shfcehfdwg’kclygwcyk!”c ymmcUr.orscu.irwcxrmkdrmmdsc.kckprcmhlkckfxl
iykpc.cmp.urdscmphrnc“Shf’xrckprcmhxkchlcwf jcYm..eckp.kcehfdwg’kclygw
.cj.mm-wxf cygc.ckrdruphgr-jhhkpncShfcwywg’kc_dhhz_n”

“YcwywcdhhzncPhgrmk,cYcwywn”

“Irdd,ckprcmkfllci.mckprxrncYckpxricykcwhigckprc h rgkckprcdyvpkmcirgk
hfkn”

“Mh rjhwsc fmkcp.orcvhkckprxrclyxmk,c.gwcmiyurwcykn”

“Iphcehfdwcp.orcvhkckprxrclyxmk?cRorxsjhwsci.mcfucygckprcxhh ciprxrcY
i.mn

“. cYcmfxr?c. cYcncncn”cKprcuhrkrmm’mcohyerckx.ydrwchllncMprci.m
mk.xygvcwhigckprcSric.ddrsc.kc.cehfudrciphcp.wctfmkcrgkrxrwncMprcpymmrw
.ci.xgygvcygc.cmp.xucfgwrxkhgrnc“Pmmk!cEprrmrcyk,cRwncKprxr’mcmh rhgr
eh ygvn”

Kprckihcygkxfwrxmciphcp.wce.fmrwc ymmcUr.orsckhcmfmurgwcprxcxr .xzmckh
prxcrxxygvcdyrfkrg.gkcirxrchlchuuhmykrcmrqrm--.ck.ddcvyxdciykpcl.yx
p.yx,c.gwc.ck.ddrxcshfgvc .gcyxxruxh.ep.jdsced.wcygcipykrcld.ggrdm
iphcjr. rwcwhigc.kcpymceh u.gyhgckpxhfvpc.cmygvdrcrsrvd.mmnc ymm
Ur.orscv.arwc.kckpr cmr.xepygvdsc.mckprsc.uuxh.eprwnc.cmfwwrgckphfvpk
p.wceh rckhcprxc.kckprcmyvpkchlckpr nc ymkxfmkygvcUm ykpc.mcmprcp.w
whgrcrorxcmygerc xncEhhkrmcp.wcfg .mzrwcpy clhxckprcy uhmkhxckp.kcpr
i.m,ckprcl.ekckp.kckprscirxrcmhchlkrgckhvrkprxcp.wcdrwcprxckhcrqkrgw
prxcmfmuyeyhgckhcRorncYkc yvpk,chlcehfxmr,cjrcghkpygvcjfkc.ce.mf.d
lxyrgwmpyu,cjrvfgcprxrc.kckprce.mkdr;cjfkc ymmcUr.orscp.wc.di.smclrdk
kp.kcRorcihfdwcjr.xci.kepygvnc.gwcghi,cmrrygvckpr ckhvrkprxc.v.ygckpym
 hxgygv,cykcp.wcmfwwrgdsceh rckhcprxckp.kcmprcwywcghkcxre.ddcp.oygv
hjmrxorwcRorc. hgvckprcv.kprxygvcygckprcwx.iygv-xhh cd.mkcgyvpkncKxfr,
kprxrcp.wcjrrgc .gscurhudrcuxrmrgk,cjfkcRor’mc.uur.x.gerci.mcmkxyzygv,
.gwcmprci.mcmfxrckp.kcmprcihfdwcp.orcghkyerwcprx,cylcmprcp.wcjrrg
kprxrnc.gw,cylcmprcp.wcghkcjrrgckprxr,cipscmphfdwcmprcghkcp.orcjrrg
hgckprckrxx.er?cMh rjhwscp.wcjrrgchgckprckrxx.ercd.mkcgyvpk,ckp.kci.m
erxk.ygncLhxc.ddcprxcergmhxyhfmc.kkykfwrcygckpryxcxrergkcehgorxm.kyhg,
 ymmcUr.orscp.wcghkcxr.ddscygcprxcpr.xkcjrdyrorwckp.kcrorgc.cwf j-jrdd
dyzrcRwwyrcEhhkrmcihfdwcghkcp.orclhfgwckprcgrezd.ercylcykcp.wcjrrg
dsygvcfgwrxckprciygwhichgcpymc.xxyo.dn

“Hp,cvhhwc hxgygv,c xnc eKhww,”cmprcehhrwnc“Y’ clrrdygvc_mh_cfumrk
.jhfkckpymckrxxyjdrc.ll.yxnc.xrg’kc_shf_,c ymmcP.ddyw.s?”

“Srm,”cm.ywcRor,c.gwcmprcp.wcgrorxcm.ywc.c hxrckxfkplfdcihxwn

Um ykp,clhxcpymcu.xk,ci.mcygc hxrcwrjhg.yxc.gwceprrxlfdc hhwcrorgckp.g
i.mcpymcihgkncPrcp.wcrq. ygrwckprcuhmykyhgchlc.ll.yxmc.gwclhfgwcdylr
vhhwncPrci.mcu.xkyefd.xdscudr.mrwciykpckprcl.ekckp.kcprcp.wcurxmf.wrw
Rorckhcmkxhddciykpcpy ckpymc hxgygvc.gwcygmurekcpymcehkk.vrcygckpr
ihhwmncJfhs.gkc.mci.mcpymckr urx. rgk,cprcp.wcjrrgcp.dlc.lx.ywckp.k
d.mkcgyvpk’mcygkrxoyrichgckprckrxx.erc yvpkcp.orcp.wcwym.mkxhfmcrllrekm
hgckpryxcygky .esncPrci.mcghiclrrdygvclfddchlczygwdygrmmc.gwcvhhwiydd
khi.xwmc.ddc .gzygw--rorgc ymmcUr.ors;c.gwcprcjrmkhirwchgckprcuhrkrmm
.cw.aadygvcm ydrn

“Irc fmkc.di.sm,”cprcm.yw,c“rgwr.ohfxckhcdhhzchgckprcjxyvpkcmywrncYk
i.mc.cuyks,cghcwhfjk,ckp.kc scxr.wygvcd.mkcgyvpkcp.wckhcjrcmkhuurwc.k
.cehmkchlc.jhfkckirgksckphfm.gwcuhfgwmckhckprcZrrjdrcehllrxm,cjfkcdrk
fmcghkclhxvrkckp.kcjfkclhxckp.kcky rdscygkrxxfukyhgcYcmphfdwcp.orcvhgr
hgclhxc.jhfkc.ghkprxcphfxncYc. cdyzrckp.knc sclxyrgwmcp.orclxrbfrgkds
khdwc rckp.kciprgchgercYcmk.xkck.dzygvcykcxrbfyxrmcmh rkpygvcygckpr
g.kfxrchlc.ce.k.edsm ckhcmkhuc rncJfk,chlcehfxmr,ckprxrc.xrcwx.ij.ezm
khcrorxskpygv,c.gwcd.mkcgyvpk’mcx.ggsv.ahhcurxp.umcmphhzcshfxcgrxohfm
msmkr ckhcmh rcrqkrgk?”

“Yci.mcwxr.wlfddsclxyvpkrgrw,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsncMprckfxgrwckhcRorciykp
.cwrdye.krcmpyorxnc“Irxrg’kc_shf_,c ymmcP.ddyw.s?”

“Yci.mg’kckprxr,”cm.ywcRorc.jmrgkdsn

“ ymmcP.ddyw.s,”crqud.ygrwcUm ykp,c“p.mcp.wcygckprcd.mkclricw.sm
mh rcdykkdrcrqurxyrgerchlc smrdlc.mchx.khx,c.gwciykpcprxcfmf.dcvhhw
mrgmrcwreywrwcghkckhcvhchfkchlcprxci.sckhcvrkc hxrchlc rckp.gci.m
.jmhdfkrdscgrermm.xsncYci.mcurxp.umc.ckxyldrcihfgwrwc.kckprc h rgk,
jfkchgckpygzygvcykchorxce. rckhckprcehgedfmyhgckp.kcmprci.mcurxlrekds
tfmkylyrwcygcprxc.kkykfwrncYcrgwr.ohfxc.di.smcygc scehgorxm.kyhgckh
ygmkxfek,crdro.kr,c.gwcrgkrxk.yg,cjfkckprxrcymcghcv.ygm.sygvckprcl.ek
kp.kc.cufxymkc yvpkcehgmywrxcrghfvpchlc scepyk-ep.kckhcjrcmfllyeyrgkn
Mfep,c.kc.gscx.kr,ci.mc ymmcP.ddyw.s’mcoyri,c.gwcYcphghfxcprxclhxcykn
JfkcprxrcYc. ,cx. jdygvchgc.v.ygctfmkciprgcYce.gcmrrckp.kcshfciympckh
jrc.dhgrncIrciyddcdr.orcshf,ckprxrlhxr,ckhc fmrncGhcwhfjkcircp.orcjrrg
ygkrxxfukygvc.ckx.ygchlckphfvpkcipyepcihfdwcp.orcxrmfdkrwcjfkclhxc s
.xxyo.dcygc.cxhgwrdchxc.cj.dd.wrchxcmh rchkprxcuhrkyec hxer.fncEh r,
 ymmcP.ddyw.snc.ciryxwc.gwcxrurddrgkclr .dr,”cprcm.ywckhcRorc.mckprs
wxrichfkchlcpr.xygv,c“exr.krwclhxcmh rcufxuhmrcipyepcYce.gghkcl.kph n
Rorxskpygvcygckpymcihxdw,cYcdyzrckhckpygz,cymcud.erwckprxrclhxcmh r
fmrlfdcrgw:cjfkcipsckprc.fkphxykyrmcfgdr.mprwc ymmcUr.orschgcfmcym
jrshgwc rncYkcymcghkckhhc fepckhcm.sckp.kcmprcvyormc rc.cu.ygcygckpr
vyaa.xwn”

 ymmcUr.ors,cfg.i.xrchlckprmrcp.xmpcoyrim,cp.wci.keprwckpr chfkchl
myvpk,c.gwcghicmprckfxgrwcrqeykrwdsckhckprckxrrcipyepcmprdkrxrwcprx
.ddsn

“Rw!”

“Prddh?”cxrudyrwckprc flldrwcohyerchlc xncEhhkrmn

“Wywcshfcpr.x?”

“Ghn”

“Hp,c scpr.orgm!”cexyrwcpymchorxixhfvpkcu.xkgrxnc“Pr’mcvhgrcwr.lcghi!
Kp.kcvyxd--shfcwywg’kcpr.xcip.kcmprci.mcm.sygv?cMprcm.ywckp.kcmpr
i.mg’kcygckprcwx.iygv-xhh ciprgckphmrcdyvpkmcirgkchfkncRw,cmprci.mcwhig
jrdhichgckprckrxx.er,ckp.k’mciprxrcmprci.m,cuyezygvcfuckprcmkfllnc.gw
ylcykcymg’kcpywwrgcmh riprxrmcygckp.kc eKhww’mcmp.ezcwhigckprxrcygckpr
ihhwmcY’ddcr.kc scMfgw.scxfjjrxmn”

Ror,ciykpcUm ykpcux.kkdygvc. y.jdsc.kcprxcmywr,cufxmfrwcprxci.s
kpxhfvpckprcihhwncMprci.mcihgwrxygvcipscmprcp.wceh rncMprchfvpk,cmpr
lrdk,ckhcp.orcjrrgcorxscehdwc.gwcwymk.gkckhckpymcshfgvc .gc.lkrxcip.k
p.wcheefxxrwcjrkirrgckpr cd.mkcgyvpkncJfkcmh rphicykci.mcwyllyefdk
khcjrcehdwc.gwcwymk.gkciykpcUm ykpncPrceprrxrwcprxcmkxyezrgcmhfdncJs
kprcky rckprscxr.eprwckprcdykkdrcedr.xygvc.gwce. rcygcmyvpkchlckpr
mbf.k,cmprw-dyzrcjfydwygvciykpcykmclfggsciygwhimc.gwcmk.ygrwcwhhx,cprx
muyxykm,c.di.smc rxefxy.d,cp.wcxymrgckhc.cuhygkciprxrcmprclhfgwcprxmrdl
.d hmkc.jdrckhclhxvrkcprxckxhfjdrmn

“Ip.kc.cphxxyjdr-dhhzygvcud.er!”cmprcrqed.y rwnc“Ip.krorxcwywcshfci.gk
ykclhx?”

“Ufxrdsc.mc.cghhz,”cm.ywcUm ykp,ck.zygvchfkcpymczrsnc“Shfczghicphickpr
 .gchlcmrgmyjydyksc.gwcxrlygr rgkcgrrwmc.cghhzncYgckpymcxfmpygvc.vr
ykcymcy urx.kyorckp.kckprckpygzrxcmp.ddcp.orc.cud.er,cphirorxcpf jdr,
iprxrcprce.gcjrc.dhgrn”

“Jfkcshfc.xrg’kc.ckpygzrxn”

“Shfcixhgvc rncLhxckprcd.mkclricw.smcYcp.orcjrrgcwhygvcmh rcrqkxr rds
jxymzckpygzygvnc.gwckprcmkx.ygcp.mck.zrgcykmckhddncKprclyrxercipyxdchl
dylrc.kcJd.gwygvmcymcir.xygvc rc.i.sncKprxrc.xrcw.xzceyxedrmcfgwrxc s
rsrmc.gwcYcmrrcldh.kygvcmuhkmn”cPrchurgrwckprcwhhxnc“Irdd,cprxrcirc.xrn
Iyddcshfcuhucygclhxc.c h rgk?”

RorcirgkcygncKprcmygvdrcmykkygv-xhh chlckprcehkk.vrcerxk.ygdscjhxrchfk
kprcuxh ymrchlckprcrqkrxyhxncYkcehgk.ygrwc.ck.jdrciykpc.cxrwcedhkp,c.
ep.yx,ckpxrrcmkfllrwcjyxwmcygc.cvd.mmce.mrchgckprci.dd,c.gwc.cm .dd
phxmrp.yxcmhl.nc.cwruxrmmygvc fmkscmergkcurxo.wrwckprcud.er,c.mcylc.
eprrmrcp.wcxrergkdscwyrwckprxrcygcu.yglfdceyxef mk.germncRorcv.orc.
dykkdrcmpyorxchlcwymk.mkrn

“Ycfgwrxmk.gwcshfxcmydrgkcexykyeym ,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Shfc.xrcm.sygvckh
shfxmrdlckp.kcud.ygcdyoygvc.gwcpyvpckpygzygvcymcroywrgkdsckprcywr.dchl
kprcv. rzrrurxmchgckprcJd.gwygvmcrmk.krncKprsc.xrcmkxhgv,cxfvvrwc rg
iphce.xrcdykkdrclhxckprcxrlygr rgkmchlcygkrxyhxcwrehx.kyhgncJfkcmp.dd
ircjd. rckpr ?cYlcYcp.wckhcmurgwc hmkchlckprcw.sc.gwcgyvpkcepyoosygv
uh.eprxmc.gwczrruygvc.gcrsrchgckprcdhe.dcx.jjykm,cYcy .vygrckp.kcygc s
hll-phfxmcux.ekye.ddsc.gskpygvciykpc.cxhhlcihfdwcm.kymlsc rncYkci.mcyg
kprcphurckp.kcshfc yvpkcjrc.jdrckhchllrxcmh rcpygkmc.gwcmfvvrmkyhgm
lhxcm .ddcy uxhor rgkmcprxrc.gwckprxrckp.kcYcygoykrwcshfckhcygmurek
 scdykkdrcud.erncKprxrcymcghcwhfjkckp.kcykci.gkmcwhygvcfuc.cjyk,cjs
.cih .g’mcvrgkdrcp.gwncIyddcshfck.zrc.cdhhzcxhfgwc.gwcvyorchfkc.clri
ywr.m?cKprci.dd-u.urxcym,cYclr.x,c.clyqkfxr,cjfkcygcrorxschkprx
wyxrekyhgcehgmywrxcshfxmrdlcfgkx.  rddrwn”

Rorcdhhzrwc.jhfkcprxn

“Irdd,”cmprcjrv.gcwfjyhfmds,c“Ycwhg’kckpygzcncncn”

Mprcmkhuurwc.jxfukds,ckygvdygvc.ddchorxnc.cmrehgwcvd.gercp.wcmphig
prxcmh rkpygvcipyepcprxclyxmkce.xrdrmmcygmurekyhgcp.wchorxdhhzrwn
P.dlcpywwrgcjsc.cx.vvrwcefxk.yg,ckprxrcmkhhwchgckprciygwhi-myddc.
d.xvrcldhirx-uhkcehgk.ygygvc.cvrx.gyf nc.gwc.exhmmckprcmfxl.erchlckpr
ldhirx-uhkci.mc.cjxh.wcmud.mpchlcipykrcu.ygkn

“Shfcirxrcm.sygvcncncnc?”cm.ywcUm ykpcehfxkrhfmdsn

RorcwywcghkcxrudsncMprcp.xwdscpr.xwcpy ncPrxc ygwci.mcygc.cehglfmrw
ipyxdnc.c hgmkxhfmcmfmuyeyhgci.mclhx ygvcykmrdlcygcprxcjx.ygn

“Shfc.xrc.w yxygvckprcmpxfj?”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Yclhfgwcykcdsygvc.jhfkcfu
.kckprce.mkdrckpymc hxgygvc.gwcuygeprwcykncYckphfvpkcykcihfdwc.wwc.
khfepchlcehdhfxckhckprcud.ern”

Ror,cdhhzygvc.kcpy czrrgdsc.mcpymcv.arcmpylkrwckhckprcldhirx-uhk,ckhdw
prxmrdlckp.kcprxcmfmuyeyhgcp.wcjrrgc.jmfxwncMfxrdsckpymcjd.gwgrmmcehfdw
ghkcjrc.cedh.zclhxcvfydkn

“Iprxrcwywcshfclygwcyk?”

“Jschgrchlckprciygwhimcygckprcp.dd,c hxrchxcdrmmci.mkygvcykmcmirrkgrmmn
Yc. cjhfgwckhcm.scYc. c.cdykkdrcwym.uuhygkrwcygckprckpygvncYcp.wc.cmhxk
hlcywr.cykcihfdwckfxgckprchdwcph rmkr.wcygkhc.cldhx.dcjhirx,cjfkcyk
whrmg’kcmrr ckhn”

“Yk’mc.cjr.fkylfdcvrx.gyf n”

“Kprxr,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“Yce.gghkc.vxrrciykpcshfncYkcmrr mckhc rckhcp.or
kprcvd.gwrxmchxcmh rkpygvn”

“Ykchgdsci.gkmci.krxygvn”

“.gwcfglhxkfg.krdsckpymcehmscdykkdrcud.erc.uur.xmckhcuhmmrmmcghci.krx
mfuudsncYck.zrcykckp.kckprcd.krcuxhuxyrkhxciprgcygcxrmywrgercfmrwckh
kxfwvrckhckprcj.ezcwhhxchlckprce.mkdrc.gwclrkepcip.kcprcgrrwrwcygc.
jfezrkncYlckpymc hxyjfgwcud.gkcl.geyrmckp.kcYc. cvhygvckhcmurgwc scky r
x.eygvckhc.gwclxhciykpcxrlxrmp rgkm,cykcymco.mkdsc ymk.zrgncKh- hxxhi
ykcvhrmcygkhckprcwfmkjygn”

RorcmpfkcprxcrsrmncMprci.mc.irwcjsc.cmrgmrchlcp.oygvc.xxyorwc.kc.
mfuxr rc h rgkncMprcp.wckprcmrgm.kyhgmchlc.cv. jdrxciphcxymzmc.ddchgc.
mygvdrckpxhin

“Ip.kc.cmp. r!”cmprcm.yw,c.gwcprxcohyer,ckphfvpcmprckxyrwckhcehgkxhd
yk,cmphhznc“Shfcp.wcjrkkrxcvyorcykckhc rncY’ddck.zrce.xrchlcykncYk’m
tfmkcip.kcYci.gkclhxc scxhh n”

“Ux.sck.zrcyk,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Ykcymg’kc ygr,cjfkcux.sck.zrcyknc.gwcorxs
rgehfx.vygvcykcym,cdrkc rc.ww,ckp.kcshfcmphfdwcjrc.eerukygvcvylkmclxh 
 rcygckpymcpr.xkscl.mpyhg;clhxcykcymcirddczghigckp.kckprxrcymcghcmfxrx
myvgchlckprcw.igygvchlckprcwyoygrcr hkyhg--dhor,”cprcrqud.ygrw,c“kp.g
kpymciyddygvgrmmckhcxreryorcuxrmrgkmclxh ckprcp.gwmchlckprc.whxrxncY
 .zrcuxhvxrmm,cYc .zrcuxhvxrmmn”

“Shfcwhg’kcwhc.gskpygvchlckprczygw,”cm.ywcRorncPrxcrsrmcirxrcmu.xzdygv
.gwcprxcpr.xkcm.gvciykpygcprxncYgckprcxrofdmyhgchlclrrdygvcipyepcp.w
eh rckhcprxchgclygwygvcprxcmfmuyeyhgmcfglhfgwrwcmprci.mc.i.xrchlc.ci.x 
lxyrgwdygrmmckhi.xwmckpymc.jmfxwcshfgvc .gn

“U.xwhgc r,”cm.ywcUm ykpclyx dsnc“Yc. cbfhkygvc.gcrmk.jdymprw
.fkphxyks--.fgkyrcJrddrchlc_Ph rcVhmmyu_n”

“Yc fmkcjrcvhygv,”cm.ywcRorncMprckhhzckprcldhirx-uhkc.gwcpfvvrwcykckh
prxnc“Y’orcvhkcihxzckhcwhn”

“Ihxz,cihxz,c.di.smcihxz!”cmyvprwcUm ykpnc“Kprcefxmrchlckprc.vrncIrdd,
Yciyddcrmehxkcshfcj.ezckhcshfxcerddn”

“Gh,cshfcihg’k,”cm.ywcRornc“Yc r.g,ckp.gzcshfclhxcshfxcuhdykrchllrx,
jfkcYci.gkckhcjrc.dhgrn”

“.dhgr?”cUm ykpcdhhzrwc.kcprx,c.mkhgymprwnc“Iprgcshfcp.orckprcep.ger
hlcjrygvciykpc_ r_?cKpymcymc.cmkx.gvrc.kkykfwrn”

“Vhhw-jsr,”cm.ywcRornc“Kp.gzcshfclhxcjrygvcmhcphmuyk.jdrc.gwcd.oympn
Y’ddckxsckhclygwcmh rcefmpyhgmc.gwc fmdygc.gwcmkfllckhcjxyvpkrgcfuckpym
ud.ern”

“Shfxcuxrmrgercwhrmckp.kc.wrbf.krds,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c.eeh u.gsygvcprxckh
kprcwhhxnc“Jsckprci.s,cxrkfxgygvckhckprcmfjtrekcircirxrcwymefmmygvcd.mk
gyvpk,cYclhxvhkckhc rgkyhg,ciprgc.mzygvcshfckhc .xxsc r,ckp.kcYce.gcwh
e.xw-kxyezmn”

“Xr.dds?”

“.gwc.dmhc.cu.mm.jdrcy yk.kyhgchlc.ce.kce.ddygvckhcprxcshfgvncP.mckpym
ghciryvpkciykpcshf?cKpygz!cKprmrckpygvmceh rcygcorxscp.gwscygckprcdhgv
iygkrxcrorgygvmn”

“JfkcYcmp.g’kcjrckprxrciprgcshfc.xrcy yk.kygvce.kmcygckprcdhgvciygkrx
rorgygvmn”

“Yckpygzcshfc.xrcixhgvnc.mcYcoymf.dymrc scdykkdrcph r,cYce.gcmrrcshf
kprxrcorxscedr.xds,cmykkygvcjrlhxrckprclyxrncShfxc .ywcp.mcufkcshfcygkh
mh rkpygvcdhhmrncKprcdyvpkchlckprcldyezrxygvcld. rmcxrldrekmcykmrdl
ygcshfxcdhordscrsrmncShfc.xrcudr.m.gkdsckyxrwc.lkrxc.gc.lkrxghhg’m
mphuuygv,cjfkcghkcmhckyxrwc.mckhcjrcfg.jdrckhcmrdrekc.ce.xw--_.gs_
e.xw--lxh ckprcu.ezcipyepcYchllrxcncncn”

“Vhhw-jsr,”cm.ywcRorn

“Ylcykc fmkcjrcmh--vhhw-jsrncLhxckprcuxrmrgkncYcmp.ddcmrrcshfc.ghg?”

“Ycrqurekcmhn”

“Vhhw!cYciyddcehfgkckprc ygfkrmn”

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Rorci.dzrwcx.uywdsc.i.snc.mcmprcmgfvvdrwckprcldhirx-uhkcfgwrxcprxc.x 
mprci.mclrrdygvcdyzrc.cepydwc.jhfkckhchurgcykmcEpxymk .mcmkhezygvn
Jrlhxrcmprcp.wcvhgrcl.x,c.cmphfkcmkhuurwcprxc.gwcmprcurxeryorwcUm ykp
v.ddhuygvcvx.erlfddscygcprxci.zrn

“E.gcshfcmu.xrc rc.c h rgk?”cm.ywcUm ykpn

“Erxk.ygdsn”

“Ycmphfdwcp.orc.wwrwckp.kcYce.gc.dmhcxreykrc‘Vfgv.-Wygn’cIyddcshfckpygz
kp.kchorx?”

“Yciyddn”

“Kp.gzcshf,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Kp.gzcshfncYcp.orc.clrrdygvckp.kcykc .sctfmk
kfxgckprcme.drn”

Prcx.ymrwcpymcp.kc. j.mm.whxy.ddsc.gwcv.ddhurwc.i.sc.v.ygn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Rorclhfgwcprxmrdlcfg.jdrckhci.ykc.gscdhgvrxncUm ykpci.mchfkchlcmyvpk
ghi,c.gwckprcihhwci.mcorxscmkyddc.gwcr uksncJyxwmckiykkrxrwcygckpr
jx.geprm,c.gwckprcmfgc .wrcdykkdrcuhhdmchlcvhdwcfuhgckprcvxhfgwncMpr
e.mkc.cmiylkcvd.gerc.jhfkcprxc.gwcexhfeprwcwhigcygckprcmprdkrxchlc.
kxrrn

KprcjyxwmcmkhuurwcmygvygvncKprcmfgcghcdhgvrxcmphgrncKprcihhwcp.wcjreh r
ehdwc.gwcmygymkrxncLhxcRor,ciykpc.cpr.xkchlcdr.w,ci.mcmk.xygvcjd.gzds
.kc.cdykkdrcuydrchlc hfdwc.kcprxclrrk;c hfdwcipyepcmprcp.wcmylkrwc.v.yg
.gwc.v.ygcygc.clxrgayrw,clxfykdrmmcrllhxkckhclygwc.cgrezd.ercipyepci.m
ghkckprxrn

Kprcr ukscldhirx-uhkcmrr rwckhcdrrxcfuc.kcprxcygc hezrxsn




EP.UKRXcQYYY

UM YKPcXRERYORMcVFRMKM


§c1

Jd.gwygvmcE.mkdrci.mc.mkyxclxh cxhhlckhcp.ddncDyvpkmcjd.arw,cohyerm
mphfkrw,cjrddmcx.gvnc.ddchorxckprcpfvrcjfydwygvckprxrcuxro.ydrwc.co.mk
.ekyoykscdyzrckp.kchlc.cj.xx.ezmchgckprcrorchlckprcxrvy rgk’mcwru.xkfxr
lhxc.jxh.wncWyggrxci.mchorx,c.gwckprcRqurwykyhg.xscLhxerci.mc .zygv
ykmclyg.dcuxru.x.kyhgmcjrlhxrcmk.xkygvchllcygc .gsc hkhx-e.xmclhx
kprcEhfgkscJ.ddc.kcMpyldrsncYgckprcjrwxhh mchgcrorxscldhhx,cXrvvyrm,
whfjklfdc.kckprcd.mkc h rgkc.jhfkckpryxcipykrckyrm,cirxrclrorxympds
.xx.gvygvcgrichgrm;cJrxkyrmcjxfmprwckpryxc.dxr.wscvdymkrgygvcp.yx;c.gw
Ed.fwrmcmphfkrwckhc.xepyrmc.dhgvckprcu.mm.vrmcygmfdkygvcygbfyxyrmc.mckh
iprkprxckprscp.wcjrrgcmgr.zygvckpryxcp.gwzrxepyrlmncO.drkmcmzy  rwcdyzr
mi.ddhimcfuc.gwcwhigcehxxywhxm,c .ywmcldfkkrxrwcygc.gwchfkchlcxhh mcyg
.ywchlcJr.fkscygcwymkxrmmncKprcghymrcurgrkx.krwcygkhcrorxscghhzc.gw
ehxgrxchlckprcphfmrncYkcorqrwckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrx,cvhygvckpxhfvpcpym
u.urxmcygckprcdyjx.xscuxru.x.khxsckhcdr.oygvcJd.gwygvmchgckprc hxxhi
lhxcrorxncYkcwymkfxjrwcDhxwcR mihxkp,ciphcmkhfkdscwredygygvckhcvh
iykpygckrgc ydrmchlckprcEhfgkscJ.dd,cp.wcxrkyxrwckhcpymcxhh ciykpc.
jhhzchgcPrxj.erhfmcJhxwrxmncYkckxhfjdrwckprcur.erchlcJr.epckprcjfkdrx,
xrlxrmpygvcpy mrdlc.lkrxcpymc.ekyoykyrmc.xhfgwckprcwyggrxck.jdrciykpc.
vd.mmchlcmhfgwcuhxkcygckprcphfmrzrrurx’mcxhh ncKprchgdscurxmhgcygckpr
ud.erciphcu.ywcghc.kkrgkyhgckhcykci.mcRorcP.ddyw.sn

Rorci.mckhhclfxyhfmckhcu.sc.kkrgkyhgckhc.gskpygvcjfkcprxcwrdrkrxyhfm
kphfvpkmnc.mcmprci.dzrwchgckprckrxx.er,ckhcipyepcmprcp.wcldrwcygcbfrmk
hlcmhdykfwr,cprxckrrkpcirxrcmrkc.gwcprxcjdfrcrsrmcvdhirwcjrddyvrxrgkdsn
.mc ymmcUr.orscihfdwcp.orcufkcykcygchgrchlcprxcehddhbfy.dc hhwm,cmpr
i.mc .wcedr.xckpxhfvpncLhxcRorci.mc.cvyxdchlcmuyxyk,c.gwckprxrcym
ghkpygvcshfxcvyxdchlcmuyxykcmhczrrgdscxrmrgkmc.mcjrygvc .wrc.clhhdchl,
iprkprxcykcjrcjscL.krchxcjsc.clrddhicpf .gcexr.kfxrncRorci.mcygckpr
fgeh lhxk.jdrcuhmykyhgchlcp.oygvcp.wckpymcygwyvgykscufkcfuhgcprxcjs
jhkpncJfk,cipydrc.mcl.xc.mcL.krci.mcehgerxgrwcmprc rxrdscm hfdwrxrw
xrjrddyhfmds,cprxc.gy hmyksckhi.xwmcUm ykpci.mcoyoywcygckprcrqkxr rn

.cphkci.orchlcpf ydy.kyhgc .wrcprxcixykprc.mcmprcxr r jrxrwckpr
ygl.gkydrcvfydrdrmmgrmmciykpcipyepcmprcp.wc.eerukrwckprcuxruhmkrxhfm
mkhxscprcp.wckhdwcprxcygcrqud.g.kyhgchlcpymcuxrmrgerc.kcJd.gwygvmcyg
.ghkprxc .g’mcg. rncPrcp.wcjrrgcud.sygvciykpcprxc.ddckprcky r--lhhdygv
prx--.gw,c hmkcfglhxvyo.jdrcexy rchlc.dd,cprcp.wcw.xrwckhcuxrkrgw
kp.kcprci.mclhgwchlcprxc.gw--Ror’mcl.ercjfxgrwc.v.yg--khc .zr
prx--.d hmk--lhgwchlcpy ncPhicprc fmkcp.orcd.fvprwcncncn

Irdd,cmprci.mcghkcjr.krgcsrkncPrxcepygcirgkcfuc.gwcmprcjrv.gckhci.dz
bfyezrxncPrci.mcedrorx,cjfkcmprcihfdwcjrcedrorxrxncKprcv. rci.mcghk
horxcncncn

“P.ddh!”

.cipykrci.ymkeh.kci.mcvdr. ygvc.kcprxcmywrncUhdymprwcmphrmcmpflldrwchg
kprckfxlncDyvpkcp.yx,cjxfmprwc.gwcjxyddy.gkygrwckhckprcd.mkcuhmmyjdr
uykepchlcurxlrekyhg,cmphgrcygckprcdyvpkchlckprcmk.xmncKprcPhgncLxrwwyr
Kpxrruihhwci.mcygcprxc ywmkn

“Irdd,cLxrwwyr?”cm.ywcRorcxrmyvgrwdsn

“Ycm.s,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrcygc.cohyercygcipyepcmrdl-uyksclhfvpkciykp
eh  ymrx.kyhgclhxcprxnc“Jr.mkdscmp. rcshfc.xrg’kceh ygvckhckprcphun”

“Ycwhg’kc ygwn”

“JfkcYcwh,cw.mpcyk!cKprckpygvcihg’kcjrc.gskpygvciykphfkcshfnc.cj.dds
i.mp-hfknc.gwcY’orcjrrgckxsygvchfkcmh rcgricmkrumciykpckprcOyekxhd.n”

“Irdd,ckprxrciyddcjrcudrgkschlchkprxcvyxdmckprxrclhxcshfckhcmkruchgn”

“Ycwhg’kc_i.gk_chkprxcvyxdm,cw.mpckpr ncYci.gkcshfn”

“Kp.k’mcorxscgyerchlcshf,”cm.ywcRorncKprclyxmkckxfefdrgerchlcprxc .ggrx
p.wcmhlkrgrwncMprcxr ygwrwcprxmrdl,c.mcmprcp.wcmhchlkrgcjrrgchjdyvrw
khcxr ygwcprxmrdlcjrlhxr,ckp.kcLxrwwyrc r.gkcirddnc“Jfkcykce.g’kcjr
prdurwncY’ chgdsc.gcr udhsércprxr,cghkc.cvfrmkncY’ cghkcygoykrwn”

“Yczghi,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrnc“.gwckp.k’mcip.kc .zrmcykcmhcw.mprwcmyezrgygvn
Yk’mcdyzrckp.kcuyekfxrcYcm.ichger,c‘.c hwrxgcEygwrxrdd.n’cHgdsckprxr
kprcvyxdcgyuurwchllckhckprcw.ger--wymvfymrw,cshfczghi--.gwcp.wc.c hmk
khuuygvcky rncYciympcdylrci.mc.cjykc hxrcdyzrckprc hoyrmn”

“Irdd,cykci.mcrghfvpcdyzrckprc hoyrmcd.mkcgyvpkciprgcncncncHp!”

RorcmkhuurwncPrxcpr.xkcv.orc.cmfwwrgctf uncMh rphickprcuxrmrgerchl
Lxrwwyrci.mcmhcygrqkxye.jdsc.mmhey.krwcygcprxc ygwciykpcdy ucuxhuhm.dm
hlc .xxy.vrckp.kcmprcp.wceh udrkrdsclhxvhkkrgckp.kckprxrci.mc.ghkprx
.gwc.c hxrcw.mpygvcmywrckhcpymcg.kfxr,ckp.kcmywrcipyepc xncZrrjdrcp.w
xror.drwckhcprxc.kckpryxc rrkygvcygc .xzrkcJd.gwygvmchgckprcuxroyhfm
.lkrxghhgncMprcdhhzrwc.kcpy ciykpcgricrsrmn

“.gskpygvcfu?”cm.ywcLxrwwyrn

Rorckhhzcpy crqeykrwdscjsckprcmdrrorc.gwcwxricpy cl.xkprxc.i.sclxh 
kprcphfmrncGhkckp.kckprxrci.mc.gscgrrwckhcwhcmh,clhxckprcjfmkdrciykpyg
ehgkygfrwcfg.j.krwn

“Lxrwwyr,”cmprcipymurxrw,c“dymkrg!cYc rkc xncZrrjdrcsrmkrxw.sc.lkrxcY
p.wcdrlkcshf,c.gwcprckhdwc rc.ddc.jhfkcphicshfc.gwcprcp.wcud.ggrwckh
mkr.dcD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcgrezd.ern”

“VhhwcDhxw!”cexyrwcLxrwwyr,c.gwcdr.urwcdyzrc.cmkx.gwrwclympn

“.gwcY’orcvhkc.gcywr.,”cm.ywcRorn

Mprcp.w,c.gwcykci.mchgrcipyepcp.wchgdscygckpymcygmk.gkceh rckhcprxn
Fgkydcghi,ckphfvpcmprcp.wckydkrwcprxcepygcjx.ordsc.gwc.mmfxrwcprxmrdl
kp.kckprcv. rci.mcghkchorxc.gwckp.kcmprci.mcghkcsrkcjr.krg,c.cm .dd
wymehfx.vygvcohyercp.wcipymurxrwckhcprxc.ddckprcipydrckp.kckpymci.m
 rxrcjx.o.whncIp.k,ckprcohyercp.wc.mzrw,c.xrcshfcvhygvckhcwh?c.gwcmpr
p.wcghkcjrrgc.jdrckhc.gmirxcykncJfkcghi,ciykpcLxrwwyrc.mc.gc.dds,cmpr
ehfdwc.ekn

“Khdwcshfc.ddc.jhfkcyk?”cLxrwwyrci.mc fkkrxygvcu.ddywdsncPrcp.wcgrorx
p.wc.corxscpyvpchuygyhgchlcpymcFgedrcThmrup’mc rgk.dyks,cjfkcprcp.w
mfuuhmrwcpy ce.u.jdrchlczrruygvc.ckpygvcdyzrckp.kckhcpy mrdlncPrci.m,
ygwrrw,ckpygzygvchlc xncZrrjdrc.d hmkckprcywrgkye.dckphfvpkmcipyep
 xncZrrjdrcygckprclyxmkc h rgkmchlcpymcygkrxoyriciykpcRorcygc .xzrk
Jd.gwygvmcp.wckphfvpkchlcpy nc.gwckprmrcxrldrekyhgmcjxhfvpkc fepckpr
m. rcbf.d mcipyepckprscp.wcjxhfvpkckhckprcrdwrxcehgmuyx.khxncHgerckprmr
kpygvmcvhkck.dzrwc.jhfk,c fmrwcLxrwwyrc.vyk.krwds,cshfcgrorxczgriciprxr
kprscihfdwcmkhuncJrlhxrcpymc rgk.dcrsrckprxrcmi. c.cu.yglfdcuyekfxrchl
pymc.fgkcEhgmk.ger,cyglhx rwchlckprcudhk,ck.ezdygvcpy c.gwcwr .gwygv
kprcxrkfxgchlcprxcgrezd.ernc“Khdwcshfc.ddc.jhfkcyk?”cprcjdr.krw,c.gw,
dyzrc xncZrrjdr,c huurwcpymcjxhin

“Yk’mc.ddcxyvpk,”cm.ywcRorcy u.kyrgkdsnc“Yk’mcbfykrc.ddcxyvpkncPrc.mzrw
 rckhcmkr.dckprcgrezd.er,ckhhn”

“Shf?”cm.ywcLxrwwyr,cv.uygvn

“Srmn”

“ scVhmp!”cexyrwcLxrwwyr,crdrekxylyrwnc“Kprgci.mcykcshfciphcvhkckpr
kpygvcd.mkcgyvpk?”

“Srmcykci.mncJfkcncncn”

Lhxc.c h rgkcLxrwwyrcp.wckhcixrmkdrciykpcmh rkpygvckp.kci.mc.d hmkc.
mhxwywcrgosncKprgcjrkkrxclrrdygvmcuxro.ydrwncPrcbfyorxrwciykpc .gds
vrgrxhmyksncPrcv.orcRor’mcp.gwc.ckrgwrxcu.kncYkci.mckhhcw.xzclhxcprxckh
mrrcyk,cjfkcprci.mcxrvymkrxygvcxrgfgey.kyhgn

“Dykkdrcvyxd,”cprc fx fxrw,c“kprxr’mcghchgrcY’wcx.kprxcvhkckp.k
kphfm.gwcbfywckp.gcshfncYlcYcehfdwg’kcp.orcykc smrdl,cYc r.gckhcm.sn
Dykkdrcvyxdcncncn”

“Hp,cjrcbfyrk!”cexyrwcRornc“Yci.mg’kcwhygvcykclhxc.gsckphfm.gwcuhfgwmn
Ycwywg’kci.gkc xncZrrjdrckhcvyorc rc hgrscncncn”

“Shfcwywg’kci.gkcpy ckhcvyorcshfc hgrs!”cxrur.krwcLxrwwyrcihgwrxygvdsn

“Yctfmkci.gkrwckhcprducUpsddymncMpr’mc sclxyrgwn”

“U.dm,cu.xwgrx,cu.dm!cU.dmckyddcprddclxrrarm!”cexyrwcLxrwwyr,cwrruds
 horwn

“Ip.kc_.xr_cshfck.dzygvc.jhfk?”

“MhxxsncKp.kci.mc.cmfj-kykdrclxh c.ckpygvce.ddrwc‘Ux.yxyrcGrdd,’cshf
zghincTfmkcp.uurgrwckhcexhmmc sc ygwncYkci.mcygckprcmrehgwcxrrdciprxr
kprckihclrddhimc.xrcncncn”

“Srm,csrm;cgrorxc ygwn”

“KphfvpkcY’wc rgkyhgcykn”

“Krddc rcncncn”

“Ykcmrr rwckhclykcygn”

“Whc_mkhu_,cLxrwwyr!”

“Xyvpk-ph!”

“Krddc r,”cxrmf rwcRor,c“ymc xnc eKhwwcvhygvckhckprcj.dd?”

“Rp?cIps,csrm,cYcmfuuhmrcmhn”

“Kprg,cdymkrgncShfczghickp.kcdykkdrcehkk.vrcshfxcl.kprxcp.mcdrkcpy 
p.or?”

“Dykkdrcehkk.vr?”

“SrmncYgckprcihhwcu.mkckprcSric.ddrsn”

“Dykkdrcehkk.vr?cYcgrorxcpr.xwchlc.gscdykkdrcehkk.vrn”

“Irdd,cpr’mcvhkchgr,”cm.ywcRornc“.gwc.mcmhhgc.mcrorxsjhwscp.mcvhgrckh
kprcj.ddcshfc.gwcYc.xrcvhygvckhcjfxvdrcykn”

“Ip.k!”

“Jfxvdrcyk!”

“Jfxvdrcyk?”

“Srm,c_jfxvdr_cyk!”

Lxrwwyrcvfdurwn

“Dhhzcprxr,chdwckpygv,”cprcm.ywcud.ygkyordsnc“Kpymcymc.cjykcjrshgwc rn
Ykcwhrmg’kcmrr ckhc rckhc .zrcmrgmrn”

Rorclhxerwcprxmrdlckhcjrcu.kyrgknc.lkrxc.dd,cmprcxrldrekrw,curxp.um
mprcp.wcjrrgc.uuxh.epygvckprc .kkrxc.cdykkdrcx.uywdsncKprcwrmyxrckh
jr.kcLxrwwyrcoyhdrgkdschorxckprcpr.wcu.mmrw,c.gwcmprcjrv.gckhcmur.z
mdhids,c.gw,c.mcl.xc.mcmprcehfdwc .g.vrcyk,cygcihxwmchlchgrcmsdd.jdrn

“Yce.gc .zrcykcbfykrcedr.xcylcshfciyddcdymkrgc.gwcghkcm.sc.cihxwckydd
Y’orcwhgrncKpymc .gciphce.ddmcpy mrdlc eKhwwcymcghkc xnc eKhwwc.kc.ddn
Prcymc.ckpyrlciphcvhkcygkhckprcud.ercjscm.sygvckp.kcprci.mc eKhwwncPr
mkhdrckprctrirdmclxh c rcd.mkcgyvpkc.gwcpywckpr cygcpymcehkk.vrn”

“Jfk,cYcm.s!”

“Whg’kcygkrxxfukncYczghicprcp.mckpr ckprxr,cmhciprgcprcp.mcvhgrckhckpr
j.ddc.gwckprceh.mkcymcedr.xcshfc.gwcYciyddcvhc.gwcmr.xepckyddcirclygw
kpr n”

“Jfk,cYcm.s!”

Rorcexfmprwcwhigcprxcy u.kyrgerchgerc hxrn

“Irdd?”

“Whcshfcxr.ddsckpygzckpymcehorcp.mcvhkckprcgrezd.er?”

“Yczghicprcp.mn”

“Irdd,ckprg,cyk’mcthddscirddckprcjrmkckpygvckp.kcehfdwcuhmmyjdscp.or
p.uurgrw,cjre.fmrcYcvhkcpy cprxrckhcuygepcykclhxcFgedrcThmrupn”

“Ip.k!”

“.jmhdfkrdsncShfcmrr,cYcjrv.gckhcp.orc.cwhfjkchxckihc.mckhciprkprxcY
i.mcbfykrcrbf.dckhckprcehgkx.ek,cmhcYcxhurwcygckpymcjyxwcjsci.schlc.
v.gvn”

“Shfcvhkcpy cprxr?cShfc r.gcshfcmrgkclhxcpy c.gwc.xx.gvrwckp.kcpr
mphfdwcu.mmcpy mrdlchllc.mc xnc eKhww?”

“Irdd,cgh,cghkcrq.ekdsckp.kncPrci.mceh ygvcprxrc.mc eKhwwc.gsi.s,c.m
l.xc.mcYce.gcv.kprxncJfkcY’wck.dzrwcykchorxciykpcpy ,cshfczghi,cjrlhxr
kp.kc.gwc.mzrwcpy ckhcuygepckprcgrezd.ern”

“Kprgcshfczghicpy cbfykrcirdd?cPrcymc.clxyrgwchlcshfxm?”

“Ycihfdwg’kcm.sckp.kcrq.ekdsncJfkcprcm.ywcprci.mc.cvxr.kcu.dchlcUpsddym
.gwcprxcpfmj.gwn”

“Wywcprckrddcshfckp.k?”

“.jmhdfkrds!”

“Iprg?”

“Ygckprckx.ygn”

“Yc r.g,ci.mcykcjrlhxrchxc.lkrxcshfcp.wckhdwcpy cipscshfci.gkrwckpr
grezd.ercmkhdrg?”

“Rp?cDrkc rckpygznc.lkrxn”

“Shf’xrcmfxr?”

“Srmn”

“Krddc rcrq.ekdscip.kcp.uurgrw,”cm.ywcRornc“Yce.g’kcfgwrxmk.gwcykc.k
.ddc.kcuxrmrgkn”

Lxrwwyrc .xmp.ddrwcpymckphfvpkmn

“Irdd,cdrk’mcmrrncIrdd,ckhcmk.xkciykp,cYckhdwcFgedrcThrcYcihfdwcuygep
kprcgrezd.erc.gwcmdyucykckhcpy ,c.gwcprcm.ywcylcYcwywcpr’wcvyorc rc.
kphfm.gwcbfywnc.mc.c .kkrxchlcl.ek,cprc .wrcykckihckphfm.gw,c.gwcorxs
wrergkchlcpy ,cYckphfvpkcykncYmckp.kcmkx.yvpk?”

“Srmn”

“KprgcYcmhxkchlcvhkcehdwclrrkncJrv.gckhcihgwrx,cwhg’kcshfczghi,cylcY
p.wg’kcjykkrgchllcx.kprxc hxrckp.gcYcehfdwceprin”

“Srmn”

“.gwckprgcYcm.ickpymc.worxkymr rgkcygckprcu.urxn”

“.worxkymr rgk?cIp.kc.worxkymr rgk?”

“Kprxrci.mc.gc.worxkymr rgkcygckprcu.urxcm.sygvcylc.gsjhwsci.gkrw
.gskpygvcwhgrcmy udsc.uudsckhckpymcep.uncMhcYcixhkrcpy c.cdrkkrx
.gwcirgkcfuc.gwcp.wc.ck.dzciykpcpy cygckprcdhjjschlckprcUyee.wydds
U.d.erncHgds,cfglhxkfg.krds,cY’wcuxh ymrwckprcvfo’ghxcY’wce.kepckpr
kirdor-lylkscph r,cmhcYcp.wckhcw.mpchllcygckprc ywwdrnc fmkcp.or
kphfvpkc rcx.kprxc.gc.mm,cyk’mcmh rky rmcheefxxrwckhc rcmygerncYc r.g,
ux.ekye.ddsc.ddcYcm.ywci.m,c‘Iyddcshfcuygepc sc.fgk’mcgrezd.er?’
.gwckprgcjfaarwchllckhce.kepckprckx.ygncGrorxckphfvpkcY’wcmrrckpr
 .gc.v.yg,cjfkciprgcYcvhkcygkhckprclyorch’edhezckx.yg--Yc ymmrwckpr
kirdor-lylks--kprxrcprci.m,c.mcd.xvrc.mcdylr,c.gwckprcvfo’ghxcmfwwrgds
kxyezdrwcygclxh c.ghkprxceh u.xk rgkc.gwcygkxhwferwcpy ckhc rc.mc eKhww
kprcuhrkncKprgckprcvfo’ghxcdrvvrwcyk,c.gwckpymcep.uckhdwc rcprci.mg’k
xr.ddsc eKhww,chgdscuxrkrgwygvckhcjrc eKhwwn”

“Wywg’kckp.kcmkxyzrcshfc.mcmkx.gvr?”

“Srm,cx.kprxcxf  sn”

“Wywcshfc.mzcpy cipscprci.mcwhygvcmfepc.gcrqkx.hxwyg.xsckpygv?”

“Hp,csrmncJfkcprcihfdwg’kckrddc rnc.gwckprgcprc.mzrwc rcipscYci.gkrw
py ckhcuygepc.fgkcEhggyr’mcgrezd.er,c.gwcykcmfwwrgdscheefxxrwckhc r
kp.kcrorxskpygvci.mcihxzygvcx.kprxcm hhkpds--Yc r.g,cpy cjrygvchgcpym
i.sckhckprce.mkdrcdyzrckp.kncXyvpkchgckprcmuhk,cwhg’kcshfczghincMhcY
khdwcpy c.ddc.jhfkcUpsddym,c.gwcykci.mckprgckp.kcprcm.ywckp.kcprcp.w
jrrgc.cu.dchlcprxmc.gwcprxcpfmj.gw’mclhxcsr.xmncMhcirclyqrwcykcfuckp.k
prci.mckhcvrkckprcgrezd.erc.gwcp.gwcykchorxncYc fmkcm.scYci.mcx.kprx
wx.igckhckprcep.uuyrncPrcm.ywcprcwywg’kci.gkc.gsc hgrsclhxcmiyuygvckpr
kpygvn”

Rorcd.fvprwcjykkrxdsn

“Ipscmphfdwcpr,ciprgcprci.mcvhygvckhcvrkckirgksckphfm.gwcuhfgwm’cihxkp
hlcwy. hgwmc.gwczrruckpr ?cHp,cLxrwwyr,cYcmphfdwcp.orckphfvpkckp.kcrorg
shfcihfdwcp.orcmrrgckpxhfvpcpy ncShfcvhckhckpymcurxlrekcmkx.gvrxc.gw
krddcpy ckp.kckprxrcymc.co.df.jdrcgrezd.erci.ykygvcprxrckhcjrcmkhdrg,
shfclygwcpy chgcpymci.sckhcmkr.dcyk,c.gwcshfckxfmkcpy cy udyeykdsctfmk
jre.fmrcprckrddmcshfcprczghimcUpsddym--iph cprcp.wcgrorxcpr.xwchlcyg
pymcdylrckyddcshfc rgkyhgrwcprxncLxrwwyr,cxr.dds!”

KprcPhgncLxrwwyrcmex.keprwcpymcjr.fkylfddscmp.orgcepygn

“Irdd,ciprgcshfcufkcykcdyzrckp.k,”cprcm.yw,c“Yc fmkchigcykcwhrmcmhfgwc.
jykchllncJfkcprcmrr rwcmfepc.cw.mprwc .krscmhxkchlcjyxwncEprrxsc.gwc.dd
kp.kncYcdyzrwckprclrddrxn”

“Ip.kcghgmrgmr!”

“Irdd,cjfkcshfcdyzrwcpy ,ckhhncYc r.gckhcm.s,cshfcirxrc.jhfkciykpcpy c.
vhhwympcdhkn”

“Ycp.krcpy !”cm.ywcRorc.gvxydsnc“YciympcYcp.wcgrorxcmrrgcpy nc.gwcylcY
drkcpy cvrkc.i.sciykpckp.kcgrezd.erc.gwcepr.kcuhhxcdykkdrcUpsddymchfk
hlcprxc hgrs,cY’dd--Y’ddcncncn”

Mprcx.ymrwc.cvxy dscwrkrx ygrwcepygckhckprcmk.xmncLxrwwyrci.keprwcprx
.w yxygvdsn

“Ycm.s,cshfczghi,cshfc.xrc.cihgwrxlfdcvyxd,”cprcm.ywn

“Prc_mp.g’k_cvrkc.i.sciykpcyk,cylcYcp.orckhcufddckprcud.ercwhign”

“Iprgcshfcepfezcshfxcpr.wcfucdyzrckp.kcshfcxr ygwc rc.cjykchl
Ip.k’m-prx-g. r,ckprcL. hfmcUd.srxmcmk.x--shfczghi,cvyxdciphci.mcyg
‘IrwcKhc.cM.ksxn’cHgds,”c.wwrwcLxrwwyrcpfxxyrwds,c“mprcymg’kcp.dlcmh
uxrkksncYcm.s,cYci.mcx.kprxcdhhzygvclhxi.xwckhckp.kcEhfgkscJ.dd,cjfk
ghickpymcp.mcp.uurgrwcYcwhg’kc ygwc ymmygvcykc.cjykncYc r.g,cykcmrr m
khcwx.icfmcedhmrxckhvrkprxcmh rphi,cylcshfclhddhic rncYcm.s,cphgrmkds,
.ddczywwygvc.mywr,cshfckpygzckp.kcdhorc yvpkcmh rcw.sc.i.zrgcygcncncn”

“Ircmp.ddci.gkc.cd. u,chlcehfxmr,”cm.ywcRorn

“Rp?”

“.cd. u--khcmrrciykpciprgcirc.xrcygckprcehkk.vrncE.gcshfcvrkchgr?”

Lxrwwyrcxrdfek.gkdscurxeryorwckp.kckprc h rgkclhxcmrgky rgkcp.wcghk
.xxyorwn

“.cd. u?cHp,csrm,chlcehfxmrncX.kprxn”

“Jrkkrxcvrkckih,”cm.ywcRornc“.gwc rrkc rcprxrc.jhfkcp.dlc.gcphfxc.lkrx
rorxsjhwscp.mcvhgrckhckprcj.ddn”


§c2

Kprckygscmykkygv-xhh chlcUm ykp’mcp.orgchlcxrmkcygckprcihhwmcp.wcgrorx
xr.eprwc.cpyvpcmk.gw.xwchlcwrehx.kyorgrmmcrorgcygcykmcjrmkcw.sm;cjfk
.mcRorcu.fmrwclxh cprxcd.jhfxmc.gwcdhhzrwc.kcykcygckprcdyvpkchlcprx
d. uc.jhfkc.gcphfxc.lkrxcprxcehgorxm.kyhgciykpcLxrwwyrchgckprckrxx.er,
ykcuxrmrgkrwc.cuyekfxrchlcwrmhd.kyhgcipyepcihfdwcp.orcmk.xkdrwckpr
ud.yg-dyoygvcv. r-zrrurxckhciph cykcp.wchgercjrrgc.cph rncRorgcLxrwwyr,
kphfvpcghx .ddsc.gcfghjmrxo.gkcshfkp,cmrr rwc.irwcjsckprcxfygcprcp.w
prdurwckhcexr.krn

“Vhdds!”cprchjmrxorwnc“Ycm.s,cir’orcx.kprxc fezrwckprcud.ercfuc.cjyk!”

Ykci.mcghchorx-mk.kr rgkncRorcp.wceh rckhckprcehkk.vrckhcmr.xep,c.gw
mprcp.wcmr.xeprwckphxhfvpdsncKprckhxgce.xurkcd.scygc.cfgkywscpr.u
.v.ygmkckprci.ddncKprck.jdrci.mchorxkfxgrwncJh.xwmcp.wcjrrgcixrgeprw
lxh ckprcldhhx,cjxyezmclxh ckprcepy grs-ud.erncKprcphxmrp.yxcmhl.ci.m
ygcxyjjhgm,c.gwckprchgrcm .ddcefmpyhgcygckprcxhh cd.scdy udscygc.
ehxgrx,cykmcmkfllygvcwymkxyjfkrwcghxkp,cmhfkp,cr.mkc.gwcirmkncKprxrci.m
mhhkcrorxsiprxr--hgckprci.ddm,chgckprcldhhx,chgckprclyxr-ud.er,c.gw
hgcLxrwwyrnc.cjx.erchlcwr.wcj.km,ckprclfxkprxcxrmfdkchlckprcd.kkrx’m
vxhuygvcygc.cepy grscipyepcp.wcghkcjrrgcmirukclhxcmrorgc hgkpm,cxruhmrw
ygckprclrgwrxncKprcmykkygv-xhh cp.wcgrorxcjrrgcdfqfxyhfm;cykci.mcghi
ghkcrorgcehmsn

RorcwywcghkcxrudsncMprci.mcmkxfvvdygvciykpcip.kcmprci.mcl.yx- ygwrw
rghfvpckhcmrrci.mc.gcrgkyxrdscfgtfmkclrorxchlcyxxyk.kyhg,ciykpcprx
ehfxkrhfmc.gwchjdyvygvc.mmymk.gkc.mcykmchjtrekncYkci.mcixhgv,cmpr
zgri,ckhclrrdcdyzrckpymncKp.kcmprcmphfdwcjrclfxyhfmc.kcprxcl.ydfxrckh
lygwckprctrirdmci.mcrqefm.jdr,cjfkcmprcp.wcghcuhmmyjdrcxyvpkckhcjr
lfxyhfmciykpcLxrwwyrncYkci.mcghkcpymcl.fdkckp.kcmhhkcp.wcuhfxrwclxh 
kprcepy grscygcdyrfchlcwy. hgwmncYlcprcp.wc.mzrwclhxc.cgrezd.erc.gw
jrrgcvyorgc.cwr.wcj.k,cprci.mcmfxrdsc hxrckhcjrcuykyrwckp.gcergmfxrwn
SrkcRor,crsrygvcpymcvxy scl.er,cihfdwcp.orcvyorgcorxsc fepckhcp.or
jrrgc.jdrckhcmexr. cdhfwdsc.gwckpxhicmh rkpygvc.kcpy ncKprcl.ekci.m,
kprcPhgncLxrwwyrcjrdhgvrwckhckp.kcfglhxkfg.krcksurchlcpf .gykscipyep
.fkh .kye.ddscvrkmcjd. rwclhxcrorxskpygvcygc h rgkmchlcmkxrmmn

“Irdd,ckprcj.ddsckpygvcymg’kcprxr,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrncPrcmuhzrckpyezds,c.m
.c .gciyddciphmrc hfkpcymcehorxrwciykpcmhhkn

“Yczghicykcymg’k,”cm.ywcRornc“Jfkckpymcymg’kckprchgdscxhh cygckpr
phfmrn”

“Kpygzcprc yvpkcp.orcpywwrgckprcmkfllcfumk.yxm?”

“Hxcwhigmk.yxmn”

Lxrwwyrcmphhzcpymcpr.w,cwymdhwvygvc.cuhxkyhgchlc.ckpyxwcj.kn

“ fmkcjrcfumk.yxm,cylcyk’mc.gsiprxrnc r.gckhcm.s,ckprxrcymg’kc.gs
whigmk.yxmn”

“Kprxr’mckprcerdd.x,”cm.ywcRornc“K.zrcshfxcd. uc.gwcvhc.gwcp.orc.cdhhzn”

Lhxckprclyxmkcky rcygckprcuxherrwygvmc.cmuyxykchlcwym.llrekyhgcmrr rw
khc .gylrmkcykmrdlcygckprcjhmh chlcprxc.mmymk.gkncFuckyddckpymc h rgk
Lxrwwyrcp.wck.zrgcpymchxwrxmcud.eywdsc.gwcrqrefkrwckpr ciykpcuxh ukgrmm
.gwceyoydyksncRorgciprgckprclyxmkcmphirxchlcmhhkcp.wcwxyorgcpy cephzygv
lxh ckprclyxr-ud.er,cpymc .gdscmuyxykcp.wcghkcjrrgcexfmprw;cprcp.w
 rxrdscfkkrxrwc.cmk.xkdrwc“Hp,cYcm.s!”c.gwcxrkfxgrwcv.dd.gkdsckhckpr
.kk.ezncJfkcghicprchjoyhfmdscprmyk.krwn

“Vhchg,”cm.ywcRorcy u.kyrgkdsn

“Srm,cjfk,cYcm.s,cshfczghicncncn”

“Ip.k’mckprc .kkrx?”

“Ycwhg’kckpygzckprcep.ucihfdwcjrcdyzrdsckhcpywrc.cgrezd.ercygckpr
erdd.xncYcohkrcircvyorcykc.c ymmc.gwckxscfumk.yxmn”

“Whg’kcjrcmydds,cLxrwwyrncPrc .scp.orcpywwrgcykc.gsiprxrn”

“Irdd,ckhcjrc.jmhdfkrdscphgrmk,cY’wc fepcx.kprxcghkcvhcygkhc.gscj.dds
erdd.x,cylcyk’mc.ddckprcm. rckhcshfn”

“Ipscrorxcghk?”

“Jrrkdrmnc.di.smcp.wc.cphxxhxchlcjrrkdrmncRorxcmygercYci.mc.czywn”

RorcjykcprxcdyuncMprci.mclrrdygv,c.mc ymmcUr.orscp.wcmhchlkrgclrdk
iprgc.mmhey.krwcygcmh rcwrdye.krcfgwrxk.zygvciykpcRwi.xwcEhhkrm,ckp.k
rq.murx.kygvcmrgmrchlc .g’mcyg.wrbf.escipyepceh rmckhcpyvp-muyxykrw
vyxdmc.kc h rgkmcmfepc.mckprmrncKhc.epyrorckprcrgwclhxcipyepcmpr
p.wcmk.xkrwchfkckp.kcgyvpkcmprcihfdwcp.orci.wrwci.ymk-pyvpckpxhfvp
.cmr.chlcjrrkdrmncJfk,cwyoygygvciykpckp.kcmyqkpcmrgmrcipyepckrddm
ih rgciprgckprc .drcp.mcjrrgcufmprwctfmkcmhcl.xc.gwce.gcjrcufmprwcgh
l.xkprx,ckp.kcLxrwwyr,ci.qckphfvpcprc yvpkcjrcygcprxcp.gwmcygc.gschkprx
eyxef mk.germ,ci.mchgckpymchgrcuhygkc.w. .gk,cmprc .wrcghclfxkprx
rllhxkckhcjrgwcpy ckhcprxciyddn

“.ddcxyvpk,”cmprcm.ywnc“Y’ddcvhcwhigcygkhckprcerdd.xncShfcvhc.gwcdhhz
fumk.yxmn”

“GhncYcm.s,cmfxrcshfcwhg’kc ygw?”

Rorckhhzcfucprxcd. uc.gwcdrlkckprcex.orgn

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Lhxc.cvyxdchlcyxhgcxrmhdfkyhgc.gwcfgmirxoygvcufxuhmr,cRor’mcygmurekyhg
hlckprcerdd.xci.mcwreywrwdscefxmhxsnc.cwymkygekclrrdygvchlcxrdyrlce. r
horxcprxc.mcmprcmkhhwc.kckprckhuchlckprcmkrumc.gwcm.icjsckprcdyvpkchl
kprcd. ucphicm .ddc.gwcj.xrcykci.mncLhx,cy urxoyhfmc.mcmprc yvpkcjr
khckprcygky yw.kyhgchlcjrrkdrm,cprxc.x hfxcmkyddcehgk.ygrwc.cepygzn
Mprci.mckrxxyjdsc.lx.ywchlcx.kmnc.gwcrorgciprgckprcx.smchlckprcd. u
wymedhmrwcghcmefkkdygvcphxxhxm,cmprcmkyddcdygvrxrwclhxc.c h rgkcjrlhxr
wrmergwygvncShfcgrorxczgriciykpcx.kmncKprscuxrkrgwrwcghkckhcjrckprxr
tfmkckhcdfxrcshfchg,c.gwckprgce. rchfkc.gwcipyaarwc.jhfkcshfxc.gzdrmn
Phirorx,ckprc r hxschlcprxcmehxgclhxcLxrwwyr’mcufmydd.gy yksclhxerwcprx
hg,c.gwcmprcirgkcwhign

Kprcihxwc“erdd.x”cymc.gcrd.mkyechgrncYkce.gcjrc.uudyrwcrbf.ddsckhckpr
.exrmchlcjhkkdr-lxygvrwco.fdkmcipyepcdyrcjrgr.kpc.cvxr.kcuydrcdyzr
Jd.gwygvmcE.mkdrc.gwckhc.cphdrcygckprcvxhfgwcdyzrckprchgrcygcipyepcmpr
ghiclhfgwcprxmrdlncKpymcerdd.xci.mcr.mydscmr.xeprwncMprcmk. urwchgcykm
mkhgrcld.vmciykpc.gcr.xcmkx.ygrwckhcwrkrekc.gscghkrchlcphddhigrmm,cjfk
ghgrce. rncMprc horwckprcd. ucmhckp.kcykcmphgrcygkhcrorxscehxgrx,cjfk
kprxrci.mcghkcrorgc.cex.ezcygcipyepc.cwy. hgwcgrezd.ercehfdwcp.orcjrrg
ehger.drwncM.kymlyrwckp.kckprcud.ercehgk.ygrwcghkpygvcjfkc.cdykkdr
eh.d-wfmkc.gwc.cm rddchlcw. ucwre.s,cRorcu.mmrwckp.gzlfddschfkn

Kprcd.ichlcrdy yg.kyhgci.mcwhygvcykmcxr hxmrdrmmcihxzncYkcp.wcxfdrw
hfkckprcerdd.x,ckprczykeprg,c.gwckprcdyoygv-xhh --kp.kcymckhcm.s,ckpr
iphdrchlckprcdhirxchlckprckihcldhhxmcipyepc .wrcfuckprcehkk.vrncKprxr
ghicxr .ygrwchgdsckprcxhh mcfumk.yxmncKprxrcirxrcuxhj.jdscghkc hxrckp.g
kih,c.gwcLxrwwyrc fmkc.dxr.wscp.orcmr.xeprwchgrchlckprmrncKprcbfrmk
mrr rwckhcjrcgr.xygvcykmcrgwnc.mcRorc .wrclhxckprcg.xxhicmk.yxe.mrckp.k
drwckhckprcmrehgwcldhhx,ckprcd. ucmphhzcygcprxcp.gwc.gwce.mkciryxw
mp.whimncGhickp.kcmfeermmci.mcygcmyvpk,ckprcmkx.ygci.mcjrvyggygvckh
.llrekcprxcgrxormn

Ykci.mckhcgrxormckp.kcygckprclyxmkcygmk.gkchlcpr.xygvcykcmprc.kkxyjfkrw
ip.kcmhfgwrwcdyzrc.cmhlkcehfvpcygckprcmykkygv-xhh ,c.clriclrrkclxh 
iprxrcmprcmkhhwncKprgc.cepyddclrrdygvchlcwym .scvxyuurwcprxncYkcehfdw
hgds,cmprckphfvpk,cjrcLxrwwyr,cxrkfxgrwclxh cpymcmr.xep;c.gwcylcLxrwwyr
p.wcxrkfxgrwclxh cpymcmr.xepc.dxr.ws,cip.kcehfdwcykc r.gcrqerukckp.k
kphmrcfumk.yxmcxhh m,chgcipyepcmprcp.wcehfgkrwcmhcehglywrgkds,cp.w
uxhorwc.mcr uksc.mckprchkprxm?cLxrwwyrci.mcghkchgrchlcshfxcxrmkx.ygrw,
fgr hkyhg.dc rgncYlcprcp.wclhfgwckprcgrezd.ercprcihfdwcp.orcjrrg
whigmk.yxmcygckihcjhfgwm,cmphfkygvncPymcmydrgerci.mch yghfmncMprchurgrw
kprcwhhxc.gwcirgkcbfyezdscygn

“Lxrwwyr,”cmprcjrv.g,c.gwcjxhzrchllciykpc.cv.mun

Ykci.mcghkcLxrwwyrciphcp.wcehfvprwncYkci.mcUm ykpncPrci.mcmr.krwchg
kprcxr .ygmchlckprcphxmrp.yxcmhl.,ckhsygvciykpc.gc.fkh .kyecuymkhdc.gw
vx.ordscmfxorsygvckpxhfvpcpymc hghedrckprcxfygmchlc.cph rn


§c3

“Vhhwcrorgygv,”cm.ywcUm ykpn

Ykci.mcghkclhxc.cupydhmhuprxcdyzrcpy mrdlckhcwymud.sc.mkhgymp rgkncPr
i.m,cphirorx,cfgwrgy.jdsclrrdygvcykncIprg,c.clric ygfkrmcjrlhxr,cpr
p.wcrgehfgkrxrwcLxrwwyrcygckpymcm. rcxhh ,cprcp.wcxreryorwc.cwymkygek
mphez;cjfkc.cxhfvpckprhxscipyepcihfdwc.eehfgkclhxcLxrwwyr’mcuxrmrgercyg
pymcph r-lxh -ph rcprcp.wcjrrgc.jdrckhcihxzchfkncPrcvxhurwcygco.ygclhx
hgrcipyepcihfdwcrqud.ygcRorn

 rxrcmfxuxymr,cphirorx,ci.mcgrorxcrghfvpckhcuxrorgkcUm ykpck.dzygvncPr
jrv.gc.kchgern

“Ykci.mcgyerchlcshf,”cprcm.yw,cxymygvcehfxkrhfmds,c“khcdhhzcygncIhg’k
shfcmykcwhig?cHgckprcmhl.,curxp.um?cHxcihfdwcshfcuxrlrxc.cjxyez?”

Rorci.mcghkcsrkcrbf.dckhcmurrepncMprcp.wcjrrgcmhclyx dscehgoygerw
kp.kcprci.mckrgc ydrmc.i.sc.kcMpyldrsckp.kcpymcuxrmrgercprxrcygckpr
mykkygv-xhh chlckprcehkk.vrcp.wcmh rkpygvchlckprcjxr.kp-k.zygvcbf.dyks
hlc.c yx.edrncKprcrqud.g.kyhg,cylcmprcehfdwcp.orczghigcyk,ci.mcmy udrn
Kihcrqerddrgkcxr.mhgmcp.wczrukcUm ykpclxh cvx.eygvckprcEhfgkscJ.dd
iykpcpymcwyvgylyrwcmfuuhxkncYgckprclyxmkcud.er,c.mcMpyldrsci.mchgds
lhfxc ydrmclxh ckprcoydd.vrciprxrcprcp.wcmurgkc hmkchlcpymcdylr,
prcp.wcxrv.xwrwcykc.mcuxhj.jdr,cylcghkcerxk.yg,ckp.kcprcihfdwcp.or
rgehfgkrxrwckprxrchdwclxyrgwmckhciph cykcihfdwcp.orcjrrgcjhkpckrwyhfm
.gwcr j.xx.mmygvckhcrqud.ygcipscprcp.wcep.gvrwcpymcg. rckhc eKhwwn
.gwcmrehgwds,ckphfvpcprcp.wcghkc.ekf.ddsc.gkyeyu.krwc.cghekfxg.dcx.yw
hgcpymcdykkdrcghhz,cprcp.wckphfvpkcykcirddckhcjrchgckprcuxr ymrmckp.k
rorgygvcygce.mrc xncRwi.xwcEhhkrmcmphfdwcp.orcjrrgcvrkkygvcywr.mcygkh
pymcpr.wnc.mcmhhg,ckprxrlhxr,c.mckprce.mkdrcp.wcr ukyrwcykmrdlc.gwckpr
iprrdmchlckprcd.mkce.xcp.wcu.mmrwc.i.scwhigckprcwxyor,cprcp.wcuhezrkrw
 xncEhhkrm’mcxrohdorxc.gwcuxherrwrwckhckprcehkk.vrn

Rorcxrehorxrwcprxcmrdl-uhmmrmmyhgncMprci.mcghkc.cvyxdcvyorgckhcehdd.umr
ygc h rgkmchlcexymymncKprclyxmkcmphezchlc. .ar rgkcp.wcu.mmrw;c.
pf ydy.kygvclrrdygvchlcrqkxr rclhhdympgrmm,cipyepce. rcwyxrekdsc.lkrx,
p.wc.dmhcu.mmrw;cmprci.mcghicvxy dscxr.wsclhxcj.kkdrn

“Iprxrcymc xncKpxrruihhw?”cmprc.mzrwn

“Fumk.yxmncYcp.orcufkcpy cygcmkhx.vrclhxc.cipydrncWhcghkcihxxsc.jhfk
Eh x.wrcKpxrruihhwncPrcp.mcdhkmckhckpygzc.jhfkncPrcymcfgwrxckpr
y uxrmmyhgckp.kcylcprcmkyxmchfkcprciyddcjrcygmk.gkdscmphkn”

“Hp?cIrdd,cYci.gkckhcufkckpymcd. ucwhigncIyddcshfcudr.mrcuyezcfuckp.k
k.jdr?”

“Jsc.ddc r.gmncJfk--Yc. c.cghoyercygckprmrc .kkrxm--hfvpkcYcghkclyxmk
khcm.sc‘P.gwmcfu!’chxcmh rkpygv?”

“Iyddcshfcudr.mrcuyezcfuckp.kck.jdr?”

“.clxyrgwchlc ygr--hgrcEhhkrm--shfc fmkc rrkcpy cmh rcky r--vrgrx.dds
xr .xzmc‘Prs!’cygc.cmp.xu,c.xxrmkygvcohyerchgckprmrchee.myhgmn
Urxmhg.ddscYcehgmywrxckprcrquxrmmyhgckhhc.jxfukncMkydd,cprcp.mcp.w
vxr.kcrqurxyrgercncncn”

“Iyddcshfcudr.mrcuyezcfuckp.kck.jdr?”

“ hmkcerxk.ygdsncYck.zrcyk,ckprg,ckp.kcshfcihfdwcuxrlrxckhcwymurgmr
iykpckprcfmf.dclhx .dykyrmncYgckp.kce.mr,cYciyddcu.xzckpymcxrohdorxchg
kprc .gkrduyrercipydrcircep.kncYcp.orck.zrgc.cefxyhfmcwymdyzrckhckpr
kpygvncYkc .zrmc rclrrdcdyzrcW.gvrxhfmcW.gc eVxrin”

Rorcufkcwhigckprcd. u,c.gwckprxrci.mcmydrgerclhxc.c h rgkncUm ykp
dhhzrwc.jhfkcpy ckphfvpklfddsncPrcuyezrwcfuchgrchlckprcwr.wcj.kmc.gw
ehorxrwcykciykpcpymcp.gwzrxepyrln

“Mh rjhws’mc hkprx,”cprc fx fxrwcxrorxrgkdsn

Rorcm.kcwhigchgckprcmhl.n

“ xncncncn”cMprcmkhuurwnc“Yce.g’kce.ddcshfc xnc eKhwwncIyddcshfcudr.mr
krddc rcshfxcg. r?”

“Xhg.dw,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Xhg.dwcRfmk.ern”

“Ycmfuuhmrcshfcp.orc.cmfxg. r?”cmg.uurwcRornc“Hxc.gc.dy.m?”

Um ykpcrsrwcprxciykpc.cu.ygrwcrquxrmmyhgn

“Yc .scjrcpsurx-mrgmykyor,”cprcm.yw,c“jfkckp.kcd.mkcxr .xzcmhfgwrw
khc rcdyzrc.cwyxkscwyvncShfcmrr ckhcy udsckp.kcYc. cmh rcmhxkchlc.
exy yg.dn”

Rorcd.fvprwcmphxkdsn

“Y’ cmhxxscylcYcpfxkcshfxclrrdygvmncKprxr’mcghkc fepcmrgmrcyg
uxrkrgwygvcghi,cymckprxr?cIp.kcymcshfxcg. r?”

“Um ykpncKprcucymcmydrgkn”

“Irdd,c xncM ykp,cYcy .vygrcshfcfgwrxmk.gwcipscYc. cprxr?”

“Yckhhzcykclhxcvx.gkrwckp.kcshfcp.wceh rckhclfdlydcshfxczygwdscuxh ymr
hlcwhygvckprcud.ercfuc.cjykncIyddcshfcjrcihfgwrwcylcYcm.sclx.gzdsckp.k
Ycuxrlrxxrwcykckprci.scykci.mcjrlhxr?c.ddckpymc .scjrckprcd.mkcihxwcyg
fdkx.- hwrxgcygkrxyhxcwrehx.kyhg,cjfkcYcmfuuhmrcYc. chdw-l.mpyhgrwn
KprcipymurxcldyrmcxhfgwcMpxhumpyxrc.gwc.wthygygvcehfgkyrm,c‘Um ykp
ymcpywr-jhfgwncPrcymcghkc.kkfgrwckhcfu-kh-w.krc rkphwmn’cPhgrmkds,
whg’kcshfckpygzcshfcp.orcx.kprxcfgwfdscmkxrmmrwckprcjya.xxrcghkr?cKpym
mhhkcncncnckprmrcwr.wcj.kmcncncn”

“Ycp.orceh rckhcvrkckp.kcgrezd.ern”

“.p!cKprcgrezd.er!”

“Y’ cvhygvckhcvrkcyk,ckhhn”

Um ykpcmphhzcpymcpr.wcvrgkdsn

“Kprxr,”cprcm.yw,c“ylcshfciyddcu.xwhgc r,cYck.zrcymmfrciykpcshfncKprxr
ymcghjhwsckhciph cYcihfdwcx.kprxcvyorckp.kcgrezd.erckp.gcshf,cjfkckprxr
.xrcmurey.dceyxef mk.germcehggrekrwciykpcykcipyepcxrgwrxcmfepc.gc.ekyhg
y uhmmyjdrncYcl.ges,c ymmcP.ddyw.s,ckp.kcshfcp.orcjrrgc ymdrwcjscshfx
shfgvclxyrgwcfumk.yxmncGh;cdrkc rcmur.z,”cprcm.yw,cx.ymygvc.cp.gwn
“Shfczghicip.kc.ckxr.kcykcymckhc rncKprci.scYcrgoym.vrckprc .kkrxcym
kpfmncYcmkyddce.gghkcfgwrxmk.gwc.mceh udrkrdsc.mcYcehfdwciympcphicshf
eh rckhcjrc yqrwcfucygckprc.ll.yx,cjfkcykcymcud.ygckp.kcygcmh rci.schx
hkprxcEh x.wrcKpxrruihhwcp.mcrgdymkrwcshfxcmrxoyerm,c.gwcYcxrvxrkckhcjr
hjdyvrwckhcyglhx cshfckp.kckprc hkyormc.gy .kygvcpy cygckpymcbfrmkc.xr
ghkcufxrncKhcufkcykcexymuds,cprcymcrgv.vrwcygcip.kcEh x.wrcEhhkrm,ckh
iph cYc.ddfwrwctfmkcghi,cihfdwce.ddc‘lfggscjfmygrmm’n”

“Ycncncn”

“U.xwhgc r,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Ylcshfciyddcjrcu.kyrgkclhxc.clric ygfkrm
 hxr,cYcmp.ddcp.orclygymprwc.gwcmp.ddckprgcjrcwrdyvpkrwckhcdrgwc.g
.kkrgkyorcr.xckhc.gscxr .xzmcshfc .sciympckhc .zrnc.mcykcheefxmckh
 r--ygwrrw,cshfcpygkrwc.mc fepcshfxmrdlctfmkcghi--kp.kc schigcuhmykyhg
ygckpymcdykkdrc .kkrxcp.mc.gc.uur.x.gercipyepckhckprcfgygyky.krwc yvpk
mrr ckhdrx.jdscxf  s,cYcp.wcjrkkrxcrqud.ygcphicYceh rckhcjrcvf.xwygvc.
wy. hgwcgrezd.ercipyepcwhrmcghkcjrdhgvckhc rncYcxrdschgcshfxcih .gds
wymexrkyhgckhcdrkckprckpygvcvhcghclfxkprxn”

“Iyddcshfcudr.mrcncncn”

“Ygchgrc h rgkncKprcl.ekmc.xrc.mclhddhimncHfxc fkf.dclxyrgwc xncZrrjdr,
 ymmcP.ddyw.s,cp.mc.cmkruw.fvpkrxciphcymc .xxyrwckhchgrcEh x.wrcT.ezmhg
iph,cylcprcp.wcghchkprxced.y ckhcl. r,cihfdwcvhcxygvygvcwhigckpxhfvp
pymkhxsclhxckpymcxr.mhg,ckp.kcprc.gwcYcirxrc.kcmephhdckhvrkprxc.gwckp.k
prcymc scjrmkclxyrgwncIrckihcp.orcmuhxkrwchgckprcvxrrg--hhp,c.cdhkchl
ky rmncIrdd,chiygvckhchgrckpygvc.gwc.ghkprx,ckprcT.ezmhgcl. ydscym
x.kprxcj.wdscfuc.v.ygmkcykc.kckprcuxrmrgkcncncn”

Rorctf urwcfuc.gvxydsn

“Ycwhg’kcjrdyrorc.cihxwchlcyk,”cmprcexyrwnc“Ip.kcymckprcfmrchlckxsygv
khclhhdc rcdyzrckpym?cShfcp.wcgrorxcpr.xwchlcUpsddymcjrlhxrcLxrwwyr
muhzrc.jhfkcprxcygckprckx.ygcncncn”

“Jrdyrorc rcncncn”

“Ycihg’kncLxrwwyrcvhkcshfcwhigcprxrckhcprducpy cmkr.dckp.kcgrezd.erc.gw
vyorcykckhc xncZrrjdrcmhckp.kcprcehfdwcprducUpsddym,c.gwcghicshf’orcvhk
ykc.gwc.xrckxsygvckhczrrucykclhxcshfxmrdln”

Um ykpcmk.xkrwcmdyvpkdsncPymc hghedrclrddclxh cykmcud.ern

“Ymc_rorxsjhws_cygckpymcdykkdrcudhk!c.xrcshfc.dmhchgrchlcEh x.wr
Zrrjdr’mcehxumchlc.mmymk.gkm?”

“ xncZrrjdrc.mzrwc rckhckxsckhcvrkckprcgrezd.erclhxcpy n”

Um ykpcxrud.erwcpymc hghedrckphfvpklfddsn

“Kpym,”cprcm.yw,c“hurgmcfuc.cgricdygrchlckphfvpkncE.gcykcjrckp.kcY
p.orcjrrgcixhgvygvcEh x.wrcKpxrruihhwc.ddckpymcky r?cYc fmkcehglrmm
kp.k,ciprgcYclhfgwcpy cprxrctfmkcghicmk.gwygvcdyzrc .xyfmc. hgvckpr
xfygmchlcE.xkp.vrc(kprc.ddfmyhgcymc.ced.mmye.dchgr,c.gwckprclxfykchlc.g
rqurgmyorcrwfe.kyhg),cYctf urw--Yc .scm.s,cmux.gv--khckprcehgedfmyhg
kp.kcprci.mcrgwr.ohfxygvckhcwhfjdr-exhmmcjhkpc smrdlc.gwckprcjhmmcjs
vrkkygvcphdwchlckprcgrezd.erciykpc.coyrickhcxrk.ygygvcykclhxcpymchig
jrgrlykncYkcgrorxcheefxxrwckhc rckp.kcprc yvpkcjrcexrwykygvc rciykpckpr
m. rcmyglfdcvfydrn”

Rorcx.gckhcpy c.gwcedfkeprwcpymc.x n

“ xncM ykp,cymckpymcxr.ddsckxfr?c.xrcshfcxr.ddsc.clxyrgwchlcUpsddym?”

“Mprcdhhzmchgc rc.mc.cvx.gwl.kprxnc.xrc_shf_c.clxyrgwchlcprxm?”

“Ircirxrc.kcmephhdckhvrkprxn”

“Kpym,”cm.ywcUm ykpcehxwy.dds,c“ymchgrchlckprc hmkcvx.kylsygvc h rgkm
hlc scdylrncYkc .zrmcfmc.ddcmrr cdyzrchgrcvxr.kcjyvcl. ydsn”

“JfkcYcgrorxcpr.xwcUpsddymcmur.zc.jhfkcshfn”

“Mkx.gvr!”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Mkx.gvrncMfxrdscmprci.mcghkc.mp. rwchlcprx
pf jdrclxyrgw?”

“Prxcip.k?”

“Yc fmkcrqud.yg,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“kp.kcfgkydcxrergkdscYci.mcr.xgygvc.
wyllyefdkcdyordyphhwcjscmdygvygvclympc.jhfkcygcJyddygvmv.krc .xzrkncYk
ymcuhmmyjdrckp.kcmh rcmghjjympcmkx.ygcygcEh x.wrcT.ezmhg’mcjxywr,cipyep
YcehglrmmcYcp.wcghkcmfmurekrw,czrukcprxclxh c.w ykkygvckp.kcmprci.m
.eefmkh rwckhcphj-ghjciykpchgrcygckprclympcjfmygrmmn”

“Vhhwcvx.eyhfm!”cexyrwcRorn

“Ycjrvcshfxcu.xwhg?”

“M ykpcncncncLympcjfmygrmmcncncncIps,cykci.mcshfciphce.ddrwc.k
Upsddym’mcphfmrcipydrcYci.mckprxrncTfmkcjrlhxrcYce. rcwhigcprxrncY
xr r jrxcUpsddymcm.sygvcphicmhxxscmprci.mckp.kcircp.wcghkc rkncMprcm.yw
shfcirxrctfmkc scmhxkchlcncncncYc r.g,cmprcm.ywcmprci.gkrwc rckhc rrk
shfn”

“Kpym,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“ymcjreh ygvc hxrc.gwc hxrcvx.kylsygvcrorxs
 h rgkncYkcmrr mckhc rckp.kcshfc.gwcYcirxrc .wrclhxcr.epchkprxncYc. 
shfxcjrmkclxyrgw’mcjrmkclxyrgwc.gwcircjhkpcp.orc.ck.mkrclhxcmkr.dygv
hkprxcurhudr’mctrirddrxsncYce.gghkcmrrcphicshfce.gcorxscirddcxrmymkckpr
ehgedfmyhgckp.kcirc.xrckiyg-mhfdmn”

“Whg’kcjrcmyddsn”

“Ircmp.ddcvrkcygkhckp.kcmrxyrmchlc‘Pfmj.gwmc.gwcIyormcIphcIhxz
Khvrkprxn’”

“Iprxrcymckprcgrezd.er?”

Um ykpcmyvprwn

“Kprcjfmygrmmcghkrnc.di.smckprcjfmygrmmcghkrncE.g’kcirczrruc.ddckp.k
kyddcd.krx?”

“GhncIrce.g’kn”

“.p,cirdd!”

Um ykpcexhmmrwckprcxhh ,c.gwckhhzcwhigclxh ckprci.ddckprce.mrchl
mkfllrwcjyxwmn

“Kprchgrcud.er,”cm.ywcRor,ciykpc hxkylye.kyhg,c“iprxrcircwywg’kckpygz
hlcdhhzygv!”

Um ykpchurgrwckprce.mrc.gwcxr horwckprcergkxrcjyxw,c.cwruxrmmrw-dhhzygv
lhidciykpcvd.mmcrsrmcipyepcmk.xrwciykpc.cp.fgkygvcu.kphmncPrclrdkcyg
ykmcygkrxyhxc.gwcufddrwchfkcmh rkpygvckp.kcvdykkrxrwc.gwcmu.xzdrwcyg
kprcd. u-dyvpkn

“Hp!”

Rorcx.gcprxclygvrxmc.d hmkcdhoygvdsckpxhfvpckprctrirdmc.mckprscd.s
jrlhxrcprxchgckprcdykkdrck.jdrn

“.xrg’kckprscjr.fkylfd!”

“WymkygekdsncYckpygzcYc .scm.sckp.kchlc.ddckprctrirdmcYcp.orcrorx
mkhdrgcncncn”

“PRS!”

Rorcdrkckprcgrezd.ercl.ddciykpc.cexsncUm ykpcmufgcxhfgwncYgckprcwhhxi.s
mkhhwc xncRwi.xwcEhhkrm,cuhygkygvc.cuymkhdn


§c4

“P.gwmcfu!”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmciykpckprcfgehfkpcefxkgrmmchlchgrciphcp.m
ghkcp.wckprc.wo.gk.vrmchlc.cxrlygrwcph rc.gwc.cgyercfujxygvygvncPr
.wo.gerwci.xyds,cuxrerwrwcjsckprcxrohdorxncYkci.mc.cw.ygks,c ygy.kfxr
ir.uhg,cmfepc.mc yvpkcp.orcjrrgckprcuxhurxkschlcmh rcvrgkdrcd.wsnc xn
Ehhkrmcp.w,cygcl.ek,cjhxxhirwcykclxh c ymmcUr.ors,ciphc.kckpymctfgekfxr
rgkrxrwckprcxhh cygc.cjd.ezc.gwcmydorxcwyggrx-wxrmmcmfx hfgkrwcjsc.
XhmrcwfcJ.xxycix.u,cprxcmuyxykf.dcl.ercvdhiygvcmhlkdscygckprcmfjwfrw
dyvpkn

“.kk.jhs,cRw,”chjmrxorwc ymmcUr.orscexymudsn

Mprcmihhurwchgckprck.jdrc.gwcv.kprxrwcfuckprcgrezd.ernc xncEhhkrm,
kphfvpcuxhj.jdscvx.kylyrwcjsckprckxyjfkr,c .wrcghc.ezghidrwv rgkchlcyk,
jfkcehgkygfrwckhcwyxrekc.gc.fmkrxrcv.arc.kcRorc.gwcUm ykpn

“Ghclfggscjfmygrmm,”cprc.woymrwn

“Ycihfdwcjrckprcd.mkcurxmhg,”cm.ywcUm ykpc.vxrr.jds,c“khc.wohe.kr
.gskpygvchlckprcmhxkncKpym,”cprcm.ywckhcRor,c“ymcEh x.wrcEhhkrm,chl
iph cshfcp.orcpr.xwcmhc fepn”

Rorci.mcmk.xygv,cjriydwrxrw,c.kckprcuhrkrmm,ciph,cm.kymlyrwciykpckpr
 .ggrxcygcipyepckprcuxrdy yg.xyrmcp.wcjrrgcehgwfekrw,cp.wcjrvfgcdhhzygv
.jhfkcprxciykpcywdrcefxyhmyksn

“ ymmcUr.ors!”cexyrwcRorncHlc.ddckprcrorgkmchlckpymcrorgklfdcgyvpkckpr
.uur.x.gerchlcD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcr hkyhg.dclxyrgwcygckprcxôdrchlcexy yg.d
i.mckprc hmkcwymehgerxkygvnc“ ymmc_Ur.ors_!”

“P.ddh?”cxrmuhgwrwckp.kcd.wsc.vxrr.jdsn

“YcncncnccYcncncn”

“Ip.k,cYckpygz,c ymmcP.ddyw.scymckxsygvckhcm.s,”cefkcygcUm ykp,c“ym
kp.kcmprcymclygwygvcykc.cdykkdrcwyllyefdkckhc.wtfmkcprxc ygwckhckpr
uxrmrgkcwrordhu rgkncY,ckhh,c fmkcehglrmmc smrdlcmh rip.kc.kc.cdhmmncY
zgri,chlcehfxmr,ckp.kcEh x.wrcEhhkrmcp.w--mp.ddcYcm.sc.gc.ebfymykyor
mkxr.zcygcpy ,cjfkcshfcYcp.wc.di.smcmfuuhmrwckhcjrchgrcpfgwxrwcurx
ergkncmhfd--.gwcmghiscipykrc.kckp.kn”

“Sr.p?”cm.ywc ymmcUr.ors,cjfkcl.ygkdscygkrxrmkrwn

“Ycy .vygrwckp.kcshfcirxrc.cuhrkrmmn”

“MhcYc. c.cuhrkrmm,”cxrkhxkrwc ymmcUr.orscphkdsnc“Tfmkcshfcmk.xkcyg
thmpygvc scuhr mc.gwcmrrcphicbfyezcY’ddcjr.gcshfciykpc.cjxyezncIrdd,
Rw,cghcmrgmrcygcmkyezygvc.xhfgwcprxrncDrk’mcvhn”

“Ir’ddcp.orckhckyrckprmrcjyxwmcfu,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmnc“Hkprxiymrcir’dd
p.orckpr cmbfr.dygvcjrlhxrcYce.gc .zrc.cvrk.i.sn”

“Rw,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsciykpckprcmehxgcipyepcprxcehddr.vfrcmhchlkrg
rqeykrwcygcprx,c“kxsckhcxr r jrxcmh rky rmckp.kckp.kckpygvcj.d.gerw
hgcshfxcehdd.xcymc.cpr.w,cghkc.cpfjj.xwcmbf.mpnc.gwcjrce.xrlfdcip.k
shf’xrcwhygvciykpckp.kcv.k!cI.oygvcykc.jhfkcdyzrcykci.mc.cjhfbfrkchx
mh rkpygvncPhic.xrckprscvhygvckhcmbfr.d?cKprsce.g’kcm.sc.ckpygvciykphfk
krddygvcrorxshgrckprscmgykeprwckprcmkfllclyxmkn”

“Kp.k’mcxyvpk,”c.w ykkrwc xncEhhkrmn

“Irdd,ckprg,cwhg’kceh rcjfkkygvcygn”

Kprcmydrgercygkhcipyepckpymcxrjfzrcudfgvrwc xncEhhkrmcv.orcUm ykpckpr
huuhxkfgyksckhcxrmf rcmurrepnc.gchuuhxkfgykschlcipyepcprci.mcvd.w,
lhx,cipydrcprcp.wcghkpygvchlcwrlygykrdscoyk.dcy uhxkckhcm.s,cprci.m
huky ymkcrghfvpckhclrrdckp.kcpymchgdscphurchlcxrehorxygvckprcgrezd.er
i.mckhczrruckprcehgorxm.kyhgcvhygvchgckprcep.gerchlcmh rkpygvckfxgygv
func.ll.jdrckphfvpcpymc .ggrxci.m,cprcp.wcgrorxcdhmkcmyvpkchlckprcl.ek
kp.kchgrcdr.ucihfdwck.zrcpy c.exhmmckprcmu.erchlcldhhxcmru.x.kygv
py clxh c xncEhhkrmnc.kcuxrmrgk,ckp.kcm .ddcjfkcrllrekyorcxrohdorx
uxredfwrwc.gskpygvcygckprcg.kfxrchlcdr.um,cphirorxcmphxk,cjfkcylcygckpr
gr.xclfkfxrc.gskpygvcheefxxrwckhcwyorxkcpymc.worxm.xs’mcoyvyd.gercrorg
 h rgk.xydsncncncncPrcufxmfrwc.cuhdyeschlci.keplfdci.ykygv,c.gwcygckpr
 r.gky rcmk.xkrwckhck.dzc.v.ygn

“Yl,cjrlhxrcshfcvh,”cprcm.yw,c“shfce.gcmu.xrcfmc.c h rgkchlcshfx
o.df.jdrcky r,cYcmphfdwcjrcvd.wchlc.clricihxwmnc.gw,clyxmk,c .scYcm.s
kp.kcYcehxwy.ddsc.vxrrciykpcshfxcehgwr g.kyhgchlcEh x.wrcEhhkrm’m
xrergkcmfvvrmkyhgncKprc .gcymc.gc.mmn”

“M.s!”cexyrwc xncEhhkrm,ceh ygvckhcdylrc.v.yg,c“kp.k’ddcjrc.jhfkc.dd
lxh cshfncYlckprxrci.mg’kcd.wyrmcuxrmrgk,cY’wcjfmkcshfchgrn”

“Rw,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsciykpcbfyrkc.fkphxyks,c“mpfkcshfxckx.u!”

 xncEhhkrmcmfjmywrwchgerc hxrncUm ykpcv.arwc.kcpy ckpxhfvpcpymc hghedr,
ygkrxrmkrwn

“U.xwhgc r,”cprcm.yw,c“jfk--ylcykcymcghkc.cxfwrcbfrmkyhg--.xrcshfckih
 .xxyrw?”

“Rp?”

“Shfcmrr rwckhc rckhck.dzckhcpy cdyzrc.ciylrnc. cYc.wwxrmmygvc xmn
Ehhkrm?”

“Shfciyddcjrcylcshfcmkyezc.xhfgwc.cipydrn”

“.ckphfm.gwcehgvx.kfd.kyhgmckhcEh x.wrcEhhkrmncGhkcbfykrcmhc .gsckh
shf,cuhmmyjds,cjfkclfddsckp.kcgf jrxchlcvhhwciymprmn”cPrc horwckhi.xwm
kprcuhrkrmmciykpcrqkrgwrwcp.gwnc“Yc. ckpygzygvchlcvrkkygvc .xxyrw
 smrdlcmphxkdsn”

“Zrruckphmrcp.gwmcfu,”cm.ywc xncEhhkrmn

“Mfxrds,”cm.ywcUm ykpcxruxh.eplfdds,c“kprmrcehgorgkyhgmcgrrwcghkcjr
hjmrxorwc. hgvclxyrgwm?cShfciyddclygwckprchgdscxrohdorxcYcp.orcrorx
uhmmrmmrwchorxckprxrchgckprc .gkrduyrerncVhc.gwcdhhzc.kcykn”

“Srm,c.gwcp.orcshfctf uygvchgc scj.ezckprc h rgkcYckhhzc scrsrmchll
shf!”

“Kprxrcymc.cmfmuyeyhfmcorygcygcshfxcg.kfxr,cEh x.wrcEhhkrm,”cmyvprw
Um ykp,c“ipyepcYcwhcghkcdyzrckhcmrrncLyvpkc.v.ygmkcykn”cPrckfxgrwckh
 ymmcUr.orschgerc hxrnc“Khcxrmf rc.cudr.m.gkrxckhuye,cshfciyddcdrkc r
zghiciprxrckhcmrgwckprcud.krwclymp-mdyer,cihg’kcshf?”

“Pfp?”cm.ywckprcd.wsn

“Yci.mcphuygv,”cuxherrwrwcUm ykp,c“ylcshfcwhcghkckpygzcykc.cdyjrxks
hgckprcu.xkchlchgrciphcp.mczghigcshfcjfkc.cmphxkcky r,ckhcjrc.ddhirw
khcmrgwcshfc.cm .ddcirwwygv-uxrmrgkcygcwfrcmr.mhgnc.gwchgrchlckprmr
w.sm,curxp.um,ciprgcYckhhc. c .xxyrw,cshfc.gwcEh x.wrcEhhkrmciyddceh r
.gwcoymykcfmcygchfxcdykkdrcph rncShfciyddcxreryorc.cpr.xks,cfg.llrekrw
irdeh rncShfc fmkcghkcjrchllrgwrwcyl,ctfmkcjrlhxrcshfcm.scvhhw-jsr,cir
ehfgkckprcmuhhgmn”

Hgrcihfdwcme.xerdscp.orcmfuuhmrwc ymmcUr.orsc.cmrgmykyorcih .g,csrkc.k
kpymcxr .xzc.gch yghfmclxhigcedhfwrwcprxcipykrclhxrpr.wncPrxce.xrdrmm
. y.jydykscmrr rwckhci.grncMprcx.zrwcUm ykpciykpc.cvdykkrxygvcrsrn

“Shf’xrck.dzygvc.cw. ’cdhk,”cmprchjmrxorwcehdwdsn

“.gchdwcl.ydygvchlc ygr,”cm.ywcUm ykpc.uhdhvrkye.dds,c“.gwchgr
ehgerxgygvcipyepckprxrcp.orcjrrgcgf rxhfmceh ud.ygkmncYcmrrcghi
kp.kcYcp.orcjrrgcjhxygvcshf,c.gwcYcphurckp.kcshfciyddc.ddhic rckh
rquxrmmncncncn”

Prcjxhzrchllc.jxfukds,cghkcjre.fmrcprcp.wcxr.eprwckprcrgwchlcpym
xr .xzm,cjfkcjre.fmrc.kckpymc h rgkckprxrce. rclxh c.jhorckpryxcpr.wm
.cmfwwrgcmp.xucex.ezygvcmhfgw,c.gwc.d hmkcmy fdk.grhfmdsc.cmphirxchl
ud.mkrxclrddclxh ckprcerydygv,clhddhirwcjsckprcmk.xkdygvc.uur.x.ger
hlc.cdhgv,cmp.urdscdrv,cipyepcxr .ygrwci.vvdygvcygcmu.ernc.gwclxh 
mh riprxrchfkchlcmyvpkckprxrclydkrxrwcwhigc.cmp.xuc.gwc.vhgymrwch.kpn

Ky rc.gwcgrvdrekcp.wcwhgrckpryxcihxzciykpckprcldhhxygvchlckprcxhh cyg
ipyepcUm ykpcp.wcjrmkhirwckprcPhgncLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhw,c.gw,cexrruygv
e.fkyhfmdsc.jhfkcygckprcw.xz,cprcp.wcp.wckprc ymlhxkfgrckhcvhckpxhfvpn

Jfk,c.mcmhchlkrgcp.uurgmcygckpymcdylr,ckprc ymlhxkfgrchlchgrcymckpr
vhhwclhxkfgrchlc.ghkprxncJ.wdsc.mckprc.eeywrgkcp.wcmp.zrgcLxrwwyr,clxh 
kprcuhygkchlcoyrichlcUm ykpcykci.mc.d hmkcywr.dncKprcmfwwrgc.uur.x.ger
hlc.cpf .gcdrvckpxhfvpckprcerydygvc.kc.c h rgkchlcgrxohfmckrgmyhgcym
rghfvpckhcfg .gckprcmkhfkrmk-pr.xkrw,c.gwcRwi.xwcEhhkrmc .wrcghc.kkr uk
khcehger.dcpymcurxkfxj.kyhgncDr.uygvc.cedr.xcmyqcygeprmclxh ckprcldhhx,
prctrxzrwcfucpymcpr.wc.gwcbfykrcfgygkrgkyhg.ddscufddrwckprckxyvvrxchl
pymcxrohdorxnc.cjfddrkcxyuurwckpxhfvpckprcud.mkrxn

Kprcdrvcwym.uur.xrwncGhkclhxc.gcygmk.gkcmygercprcp.wcjrrgcmpfkcygckp.k
fuurxcxhh cp.wcLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhwcer.mrwckhcjrc ygwlfdchlcUm ykp’m
u.xkygvcmk.kr rgkckp.kcprcihfdwcjrcmphkcylcprckxyrwckhcrme.ur,c.gwc xn
Ehhkrm’cjfddrkcmrr rwckhcpy c.cwx. .kyeclfdlyd rgkchlckp.kcuxh ymrn
Ixrgepygvcpymcdrvciykpcu.yglfdcrgrxvschfkchlckprc.jsmm,cprcuxherrwrw
khcrqrefkrc.cj.ezi.xwcmuxygvcipyepckhhzcpy ckhckprcl.xci.dd--.kcipyep
uhygk,c.mcykci.mcy uhmmyjdrckhcvrkc.gscl.xkprxc.i.sclxh ckprcergkxrchl
rorgkm,cprci.mceh urddrwckhcp.dkcpymcxrkxr.kncP.oygvcxhddrwcpy mrdl
fucygkhc.mcm .ddc.cj.ddc.mcprcehfdwc .g.vr,cprcm.kciprxrcprci.m,
kxsygvcghkckhcjxr.kprncPymc h rgk.xscygkrgkyhgchlcrqud.ygygvckpxhfvp
kprcphdrckp.kckprcrgkyxrckpygvcp.wcjrrgc.cxrvxrkk.jdrc.eeywrgk,cpr
uxfwrgkdsc.j.gwhgrwncFgygkrddyvrgkckphfvpcprcp.wchlkrgcuxhorwcpy mrdl
ygchkprxcexymrmchlcpymcdylr,cprcp.wckprcm.v.eykscghickhcxr.dymrckp.k
kprcgryvpjhfxphhwchlckprcphdrci.mcfgpr.dkpsc.gwcmphfdwcjrc.ohywrwncMh,
uxrmrxoygvc.ceh udrkrc.gwcfgjxhzrgcmydrger,cprcexhfeprwckprxrcygckpr
w.xzgrmm,chgdsc.mzygvckhcjrcdrlkc.dhgrn

.gwcykcmrr rw,c.mckprc h rgkmcmdyuurwcjs,ckp.kckpymc hwrmkciympci.m
khcjrcvx.kylyrwncGhymrmc.gwckprcmhfgwchlcohyermce. rcfuckhcpy clxh 
kprcxhh cjrdhi,cjfkcghc hxrcjfddrkmncYkcihfdwcjrcu.dkrxygvciykpckpr
kxfkpckhcm.sckp.kckpymcufkcpy ceh udrkrdsc.kcpymcr.mr,cjfkcmkyddcykci.m
mh rkpygvncLxrwwyr’mcufdmrcjrv.gckhcxrkfxgckhckprcghx .dn

 xncEhhkrm’,chgckprchkprxcp.gw,ci.mcjr.kygvciykpc.cw.gvrxhfmcbfyezgrmmn
Miylkc.gwchjtrekyhg.jdrckpygvmcp.wcjrrgcp.uurgygvckhcRwi.xwcEhhkrmcyg
kp.kcdhirxcxhh ncPymclyxmkcy uxrmmyhgci.mckp.kckprcxylkcygckprcud.mkrx
.jhorcpy cp.wcjrrgcygmk.gkdsclhddhirwcjsckprcehdd.umrchlckprcrgkyxr
erydygv,cjfkckpymci.mc.c ymk.zrgcywr.nc.ddckp.kcp.wcheefxxrwci.mckp.k
Um ykp,clygwygvc xncEhhkrm’crsrc.gwcuymkhdclfgekyhgygvcygc.ghkprx
wyxrekyhg,cp.wcmuxfgvclhxi.xw,cmg.keprwcfuc.cep.yx,cpykckprcfglhxkfg.kr
 .gchorxckprcpr.wciykpcyk,cxrdyrorwcpy chlcpymcuymkhd,cdr.urwckhckpr
 .gkrduyrer,cxr horwckprcxrohdorxcipyepcd.sckprxr,c.gwcghi,cphdwygv
jhkpcir.uhgmcygc.gc.kkykfwrchlc rg.er,ci.mcxrv.xwygvcpy cergmhxyhfmds
kpxhfvpc.cvdr. ygvcrsrvd.mmn

“Ghclfggscjfmygrmm,cEh x.wrcEhhkrm,”cm.ywcUm ykpn

 xncEhhkrmcuyezrwcpy mrdlcfucu.yglfddsncPymcpr.wci.mcmygvygvncPr
dhhzrwc.kckprcxrohdorxm,cjdygzrw,churgrwcpymc hfkpc.gwcmpfkcykc.v.ygn
Prci.mchuuxrmmrwciykpc.cmrgmrchlcwrlr.kncG.kfxrcp.wcghkcjfydkcpy clhx
.c .gchlcoyhdrgerncUr.erlfdc .gyufd.kyhgchlc.cu.ezchlce.xwmcygckpr
m hzr-xhh chlc.gc.kd.gkyecdygrxci.mc.ckpygvcprcfgwrxmkhhwc.gwcrgthsrw:
xhfvp-.gw-kf jdrcrgehfgkrxmcirxrc.dyrgckhcpy c.gwcwymk.mkrlfdnc.mcl.x
.mc xncEhhkrmci.mcehgerxgrw,ckprci.xci.mchorxn

Jfkc ymmcUr.orsci.mc.cih .gchlcmuyxykncPrxcp.kci.mcmkyddcygckprcxygvn
Mprcedfkeprwckprcgrezd.ercygc.cvx.muchlcmkrrd,c.gwcprxclygrcrsrmcvd.xrw
wrly.gern

“Shfckpygzcshfxmrdlcm .xk,cwhg’kcshf?”cmprcm.ywn

Um ykpcrsrwcprxceh  ymrx.kygvdsncPrxco.dhxhfmc.kkykfwrc.uur.drwckhcpy n
Grorxkprdrmm,cjfmygrmmci.mcjfmygrmmn

“Yc. c.lx.yw,”cprcm.ywcxrvxrklfdds,c“kp.kcYc fmkckxhfjdrcshfckhcp.gw
horxckp.kcgrezd.ern”

“Kxsc.gwcvrkcyk,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsn

Um ykpcdhhzrwcpfxkn

“Yc. c.cepydwcygckprmrc .kkrxm,”cprcm.yw,c“jfkcYcp.wc.di.smcv.kprxrw
kp.kchgckprmrchee.myhgmckprciymprmchlckprc .gcjrpygwckprcvfgcirxr
.fkh .kye.ddscxrmurekrwn”

“Y’ddce.ddcshfxcjdfll,”cm.ywc ymmcUr.orsclyx dsnc“Y’ cvhygvckhci.dz
mkx.yvpkchfkchlcprxrciykpckpymcehddrekyhgchlcyercxyvpkcghi,c.gwcY’dd
jrkcshfcihg’kcp.orckprcgrxorckhcmk.xkc.gscmphhkygvncMphhkc.cih .g?cGhk
shf!”

Um ykpcghwwrwcvx.ordsn

“Shfxczghidrwvrchlcumsephdhvscymc.jmhdfkrdscehxxrekncShfxckxfmkcygc s
mrgmrchlcepyo.dxscxrmkmchgcmhdywcvxhfgwncJfk,”cprcuxherrwrw,ceprrxygv
fu,c“Ycl.gesckp.kcYcmrrc.ci.schfkchlckprcwyllyefdksnc.gcywr.cp.mcjrrg
ohfepm.lrwckhc rncYcmp.ddcmphhk--ghkcshf,cjfkcEh x.wrcEhhkrmncKpymciydd
wymuhmrchlc.ddcfgudr.m.gkgrmmncYlcshfc.kkr ukckhcrwvrchfkckpxhfvpckp.k
whhxcYcmp.ddcy  rwy.krdscuxherrwckhcudfvcEh x.wrcEhhkrmcygckprcdrvnc.k
dr.mk,cYcmp.ddckxsncYc. c.cuhhxcmphkc.gwc .scpykcpy cygcmh rc hxrcoyk.d
muhk,cjfkc.kcdr.mkcprciyddcp.orckprcehgmhd.kyhgchlczghiygvckp.kcYcwyw
 scjrmkc.gwc r.gkcirddn”

“Prs!”cexyrwc xncEhhkrmnc.gwcgrorx,cygc.cdylrcdyjrx.ddscr jrddymprw
iykpckpymcl.ohfxykrcrt.efd.kyhgchlcpym,cp.wcprcfkkrxrwcykc hxr
lrrdygvdsncPrcmphkc.clrorxympcvd.gerc.kc ymmcUr.ors;c.gw,cxr.wygvcyg
prxcl.ercygwreymyhgcx.kprxckp.gckp.kcygmk.gkc.ebfyrmergercipyepcprcp.w
phurwckhcmrr,ce.mkchllcpymcefmkh .xsc.kkykfwrchlcxrmureklfdcpf ydyks
.gwc.mmrxkrwcpy mrdlncPrci.mcghce.or- .g,cjfkckpymci.mchgrchee.myhg
iprgcprc r.gkckhcp.orcpymchigci.sncIykpc.gc.vhgymrwcjhfgwcprcxr.eprw
 ymmcUr.ors’mcmywr,cixrgeprwckprcgrezd.erclxh cprxcvx.muc.gwcldfgvcyk
ygkhckprcrgr s’mce. uncRorcmkhhurwc.gwcuyezrwcykcfun

“Yckp.gzcshf,”cm.ywcUm ykpciykpc.cjxyrlcjhicygcprxcwyxrekyhgn

 ymmcUr.orscjxr.kprwcpr.oydsncPrxcmkxhgvcp.gwmcedrgeprwc.gwcfgedrgeprwn
Jrkirrgcprxcu.xkrwcdyumcprxckrrkpcmphirwcygc.ckpygcipykrcdygrncMfwwrgds
mprcmi.ddhirwcbfyezds,c.mcylcwx.ygygvc.cvd.mmchlcfgu.d.k.jdrc rwyeygrn

“Irdd,”cmprcm.ywcygc.cdhi,crorgcohyer,c“kp.kcmrr mckhcjrc.jhfkc.ddn
Vfrmmcir’ddcjrcvhygvncEh rc.dhgv,cRw,cuyezcfuckprcPrgxyrmn”

“Eh ygv,cDya,”cxrudyrwc xncEhhkrmcpf jdsn

Kprscu.mmrwckhvrkprxcygkhckprcgyvpkn


§c5

Mydrgerclhddhirwckpryxcwru.xkfxrncRor,cir.zciykpckprcxr.ekyhgclxh 
kprceh udrqcr hkyhgmcipyepcmprcp.wcfgwrxvhgrcmygercprxc.xxyo.dc.kckpr
ehkk.vr,cm.kchgckprcj.kkrxrwcmhl.,cprxcepygcxrmkygvcygcprxcp.gwmncMpr
dhhzrwc.kcUm ykp,ciph,cpf  ygvc.cdyvpkc.yx,ci.mcwrdye.krdscuydygvciykp
kprckhrchlcpymcmphrc.clfgrx.dc hfgwchorxckprcmrehgwchlckprcwr.wcj.kmn

“Mhckp.k’mckp.k!”cmprcm.ywn

Um ykpcdhhzrwcfuciykpc.cjxyvpkc.gwclxyrgwdscm ydrn

“Shfcp.orc.corxscp.uuscvylkchlcupx.mr,”cprcm.ywnc“Kp.k,c.mcshfcmrgmyjds
m.s,cymckp.kn”

Rorci.mcmydrgkclhxc.ipydrncUm ykpceh udrkrwckprchjmrbfyrmc.gwcmkruurw
j.ezciykpckprc.yxchlc.c .gciphcp.mcwhgrcip.kcprce.gclhxc.cl.ddrgclxyrgwn

“L.gesc ymmcUr.orscjrygvc.ckpyrl!”cm.ywcRorncMprci.mcmh rphiclrrdygv
.cwymygedyg.kyhgckhc.ddhickprcehgorxm.kyhgckhcwyrcwhig,c.gwcsrkcmpr
p.wc.gcywr.ckp.k,cfgdrmmcykci.mcurx ykkrwckhcwyrcwhig,cykc yvpk
jreh rcr j.xx.mmygvdscygky .krncMfjehgmeyhfmds,cmprci.mcrgwr.ohfxygv
khc.g.dsmrcprxcoyrimchgckpymcdhgv,ce.d curxmhgciphcp.wcmhcxrergkds
.wwrwcpy mrdlckhckprcdymkchlckphmrciphced.y rwckhcdhhzcfuhgcprxciykp
.llrekyhgn

“Ycehglrmmcykce. rc.mcmh rkpygvchlc.cmphezckhc rc.dmh,”cm.ywcUm ykpn
“Ygcl.ek,ckprcxrord.kyhgckp.kckprxrci.mckpymchkprx,cwrrurxcmywrckhcprx
g.kfxrc .krxy.ddsc.dkrxrwckprchuygyhgcYcp.wclhx rwchlcprxncYclhfgw
 smrdlci.x ygvckhc ymmcUr.orsncMh rkpygvckp.kci.mc.zygckhcxrmurekcjrv.g
khcmkyxciykpygc rncYgwrrw,cYc.d hmkciympckp.kcircp.wcghkcjrrgceh urddrw
khcwruxyorcprxchlckprctrirdmn”

“‘Ir’?”cm.ywcRornc“Y’ c.lx.ywcYcwywg’kcwhc fepn”

“Shfxc.kkykfwrci.mcrq.ekdscxyvpk,”cUm ykpc.mmfxrwcprxnc“Shfc.llhxwrw
tfmkckprc hx.dcmfuuhxkcipyepc.c .gcgrrwmcygcmfepc.cexymymn”

Mydrgerclrddchgerc hxrncRorcxrkfxgrwckhcprxckphfvpkmnc.gwckprg,ciykpc.
mfwwrggrmmcipyepcmfxuxymrwcprx,cmprclhfgwckp.kcmprcp.wc .wrcfucprxc ygwn

“Mhcshf’xrcvhygvckhcjrc .xxyrw?”cmprcm.ywn

Um ykpcuhdymprwcpymc hghedrckphfvpklfddsn

“Yckpygzcmh,”cprcm.ywnc“YckpygzcmhncIp.kcwhc_shf_ckpygz?”

Rorcxrv.xwrwcpy cmkr.wl.mkdsncKprgcmprcv.orc.cdykkdrcd.fvpn

“Srm,”cmprcm.yw,c“Yckpygzcmh,ckhhn”cMprcu.fmrwnc“Mp.ddcYckrddcshf
mh rkpygv?”

“Shfcehfdwckrddc rcghkpygvc hxrcihgwrxlfdckp.gckp.kn”

“IprgcYc rkcEsgkpy.cygc .xzrkcJd.gwygvm,cmprckhdwc rcip.kckprckxhfjdr
i.mcipyepc .wrcprxcpfmj.gwcdr.orcprxncIp.kcwhcshfcmfuuhmrcykci.m?”

“Lxh c scjxyrlc.ebf.ygk.gerciykpcEh x.wrc eKhww,cYcihfdwcp.a.xwckpr
vfrmmckp.kcprckxyrwckhcmk.jcprxciykpckprcjxr.w-zgylrncPrcmkxfezc rc.mc.
 fxwrxhfm-dhhzygvcmurey rgn”

“Kprscp.wcmh rcurhudrckhcwyggrx,c.gwckprxrci.mcepyezrg,c.gwcEsgkpy.
v.orc.ddckprcvyjdrkmckhckprcvfrmkm,c.gwcprxcpfmj.gwcjhfgwrwchfkchlcpym
mr.kciykpc.ciydwcexs,c.gw,cmphfkygvc‘Shfc_zghi_cYcdhorckphmrckpygvm
jrkkrxckp.gc.gskpygvcygckprcihxdw!’cxfmprwclxh ckprcphfmr,cgrorxckh
xrkfxg!”

“UxreymrdscphicYcihfdwcp.orciymprwcpy ckhcxfmp,cp.wcYcjrrgc xmnc eKhwwn”

“Esgkpy.ckhdwc rckp.kcprcp.wcxfmprwclxh ckprcphfmr,cgrorxckhcxrkfxg,
myqcky rmcmygerckprscirxrc .xxyrwn”

“ .scYc rgkyhg--ygcu.mmygv--”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“kp.kcYcwhcghkcdyzrcepyezrg
vyjdrkm?”

“Esgkpy.c.woymrwc r,”cuxherrwrwcRor,c“ylcrorxcYc .xxyrw,ckhc .xxs
mh rhgrcreergkxyencMprcm.ywcykci.mcmfepclfgncIrdd,cYcwhg’kcmfuuhmrcYc. 
rorxcdyzrdsckhc rrkc.gshgrc hxrcreergkxyeckp.gcshf,c. cY?”

“Yckpygzcshfcihfdwcjrcfgiymrckhci.ykchgckprcep.gern”

“Kprchgdsckpygvcymcncncn,”cm.ywcRorcxrldrekyordsnc“‘ xmncM ykp’cncncn
Ykcwhrmg’kc_mhfgw_c fep,cwhrmcyk?”

Um ykpcjr. rwcrgehfx.vygvdsn

“Irc fmkcdhhzcygkhckprclfkfxr,”cprcm.ywnc“Irc fmkcxr r jrxckp.kcYc. 
hgdsc.kckprcjrvyggygvchlcip.kcYc. cehgoygerwcymckhcjrc.cmygvfd.xds
yddfmkxyhfmce.xrrxnc‘D.wscUm ykp’cymcjrkkrxcncncnc‘J.xhgrmmcUm ykp’
jrkkrxcmkyddcncncnc.gw--iphczghim?--‘KprcWfeprmmchlcUm ykp’cncncn”

“Irdd,c.gsphi,”cm.ywcRor,c“shfcirxrcihgwrxlfdctfmkcghi,cmy uds
ihgwrxlfdncKprci.scshfc .wrchgrcmuxygvcncncn”

“Shfxcihxwm,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“.xrc fmyeckhc scr.xm,cjfkcirc fmkcghk
lhxvrkckp.kckprclhfgw.kyhgmchlckprcmfeermmchlckprc .gœfoxrcirxrcd.yw
jscEh x.wrcKpxrruihhwncP.wcykcghkcjrrgclhxckprcky rdscygefxmyhgchlcpym
drvcncncn”

“Vhhwcvx.eyhfm!”cexyrwcRornc“Lxrwwyr!cYcp.wclhxvhkkrgc.ddc.jhfkcpy !”

“Kprcxyvpkcmuyxyk,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Bfykrckprcxyvpkcmuyxykn”

“Irc fmkcvhc.gwcdrkcpy chfkn”

“Tfmkc.mcshfcm.snc.gwckprgcprce.gceh rciykpcfmchgckprcmkxhddcYci.m
.jhfkckhcuxhuhmrckp.kcircmphfdwck.zrckpxhfvpckprcihhwmncYkcymc.cdhords
gyvpk,c.gwcip.kcehfdwcjrcthddyrxckp.gckhcp.orcEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw
ux.kkdygvc.kchfxcmywr?cYciyddcvhc.gwcdrkcpy chfkc.kchgern”

“Gh,cwhg’kcjhkprx,”cm.ywcRorn




EP.UKRXcQYO

UM YKPc.EERUKMcR UDHS RGK


Kprcvhdwrgcmkyddgrmmchlc.curxlrekcmf  rxc hxgygvcjxhhwrwchorxcJd.gwygvm
E.mkdrc.gwcykmc.wt.ergkcudr.mfxr-vxhfgwmncLxh c.cmzschlcfgjxhzrgcjdfr
kprcmfgcuhfxrwcwhigcykmcpr.xkrgygvcx.smchgc.ddckphmrcxhmrm,cuygzm,
u.gmyrm,ce.xg.kyhgm,cphddsphezm,cehdf jygrm,cd.xzmufxm,cDhgwhgcuxywr
.gwcE.gkrxjfxscjrddmcipyepc .wrckprcv.xwrgmcmhcx.xrdscjr.fkylfdn
Ld.ggrddrwcshfkpmc.gwc .ywrgmcygcipykrcmrxvrcmuhxkrwcygckprcmp.wr;cv.s
exyrmc.xhmrclxh ckprckrggym-ehfxkmcjrpygwckprcmpxfjjrxs;c.gwcjyxwm,
jrrm,c.gwcjfkkrxldyrmcirgkc.jhfkckpryxcjfmygrmmciykpc.cgricrgrxvsc.gw
ayuncYgcmphxk,ckprce.mf.dchjmrxorx,c.mmf ygvckp.kcprci.mc.wwyekrwckh
kxykrcupx.mrm,cihfdwcp.orcm.ywckp.kcp.uuygrmmcxryvgrwcmfuxr rn

Jfkcp.uuygrmm,crorgchgckprclygrmkc hxgygvm,cymcmrdwh cfgyorxm.dncKpr
mkxhddygvcshfkpmc.gwc .ywrgmcirxrcp.uus;ckprckrggym-ud.srxmcirxrcp.uus;
kprcjyxwm,cjrrm,c.gwcjfkkrxldyrmcirxrcp.uusncRor,ci.dzygvcygcudr.m.gk
 rwyk.kyhgchgckprckrxx.er,ci.mcp.uusncLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhwci.mcp.uus
.mcprcdhfgvrwcygckprcm hzygv-xhh c.gwcvdh.krwchorxckprcyglhx .kyhg,
xreryorwclxh cUm ykpcygckprcm .ddcphfxm,ckp.kcpymckphfm.gwcuhfgwm
i.mcm.lrnc xncZrrjdr,cixykygvckhcUpsddymckhcyglhx cprxckp.kcmpr
 yvpkcedygepckprcufxep.mrchlckprcDygehdgmpyxrcl.x ,ci.mcp.uusncRorg
Pr.w-v.xwrgrxc.gvfmc e.ddymkrxci.mc.mcp.uusc.mc.cMehkm .gce.gcrorxcjrn
JfkcDhxwcR mihxkp,cwxhhuygvchfkchlckprcdyjx.xsciygwhi,clrdkchgdsc.
grxohfmcyxxyk.kyhgc hxrcygczrruygvciykpckprcjdyaa.xwmchlciygkrxckp.g
iykpckprchgdsclygrcTfdsckp.kcRgvd.gwcp.wczghigcygckprcd.mkckrgcsr.xmn

Ircp.orcmrrgcpymcdhxwmpyucygc.cmy yd.xc.kkykfwrc.gwc.cdyzrclx. rchl
 ygwchgc.cuxroyhfmchee.myhg;cjfkckprgcpymc rd.gephdscp.wcjrrgcwfrckh
kprcdhmmchlcpymcvd.mmrmncKpymc hxgygvckprmrcirxrcurxeprwclyx dschgcpym
ghmrc.gwcprcm.ic.ddckpygvmcedr.xdsncIp.kci.mce.fmygvcpymcvdhh cghi
i.mckprcl.ekckp.kcmh rckrgc ygfkrmcr.xdyrxcpymcmymkrxcEhgmk.gercp.w
kx.uurwcpy cygckprcdyjx.xs,clfddchlct.xxygvcxrjfzrchgckprcmfjtrekchl
kprcwym ymm.dchlcXfurxkcJ.qkrx,ckprcihxdw’mc hmkcrllyeyrgkcmrexrk.xsn
Ykci.mckhc.ohywcprxceh urddygvcrsrckp.kcDhxwcR mihxkpcp.wckfxgrwckhckpr
iygwhinc.gwcip.kcprcm.iclxh ckp.kciygwhickpxfmkcpy crorgcwrrurxcygkh
kprc.jsmmchlcvdhh ncKprcmfg,ckprcjyxwm,ckprcjrrm,ckprcjfkkrxldyrm,c.gw
kprcldhirxmce.ddrwckhcpy ckhceh rchfkc.gwcp.orckprcky rchlcpymcdylr,
jfkcprctfmkcd.ezrwckprcgrxorckhc .zrc.cw.mpclhxcykn

“Yckpygzcshfc fmkcjrc .w,”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.gercjykkrxds,cxrmf ygvcprx
xr .xzmc.gwcmk.xkygvc.kckprcuhygkciprxrcmprcp.wcjrvfgcjrlhxrn

“J.qkrx’mc .w,”cxrkhxkrwcpymcdhxwmpyu,c.dmhcxr-kxr.wygvchdwcvxhfgwn

“Shfc.xrckhhc.jmfxw!”

“Prckpxricldhirx-uhkmc.kc rn”

“Whcudr.mrcmkhuck.dzygvc.jhfkckphmrcldhirx-uhkmnc xncJ.qkrxcp.m
rqud.ygrwckprciphdrckpygvckhc r,c.gwcmfxrdscrorgcshfce.gcmrrckp.kcpym
jrp.oyhfxci.mcurxlrekdscrqefm.jdrn”

“Ycwhg’kcdyzrckprclrddhi,”cexyrwcDhxwcR mihxkp,chgerc hxrcxrkxr.kygvckh
pymcd.mkcdygrchlckxrgeprm--kprchgrcdygrclxh cipyepc.ddcD.wscEhgmk.ger’m
rdhbfrgercp.wcjrrgcfg.jdrckhcwymdhwvrcpy n

Kprxrci.mc.cmydrger,c.mckprxrcp.wcjrrgc.cmphxkcipydrcjrlhxrciprgckpr
wymefmmyhgcp.wcxr.eprwckpymcm. rcuhygkn

“Shfciyddcjrcprdudrmmciykphfkcpy ,”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.gern

“Ghkpygvchlckprczygw,”cm.ywcpymcdhxwmpyun

“ShfczghicshfciyddncIprxrciyddcshfcrorxcvrkc.ghkprxcmrexrk.xsce.u.jdr
hlcdhhzygvc.lkrxcrorxskpygvcdyzrc xncJ.qkrx?cShfczghicshfc.xrc.curxlrek
epydw,c.gwcfgdrmmcshfcp.orcmh rhgrciph cshfce.gckxfmkckhc .g.vrcshfx
.ll.yxmcYce.gghkcmrrcip.kciyddcp.uurgn”

DhxwcR mihxkpc .wrcghcxrudsncPrc rxrdscv.arwci.gdsclxh ckprciygwhin

“Ep.hm,”c h.grwcD.wscEhgmk.gern

Pymcdhxwmpyucxr .ygrwc fkr,cjfkcghickprxrci.mc.cvdr. chlcmh rkpygv
.uuxh.epygvcudr.mfxrcygcpymcu.drcrsrm;clhxc.kckpymc h rgkc.ce.xcxhfgwrw
kprcehxgrxchlckprcphfmrclxh ckprcwyxrekyhgchlckprcmk.jdrmc.gwcmkhhw
ufxxygvc.kckprcwhhxncKprxrci.mc.ckxfgzchgckprce.xc.gwc.cmfyk-e.mrnc.gw
.d hmkcmy fdk.grhfmdsckprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxcrgkrxrwckprcdyjx.xs,cedhkprw
.gwcmu.kkrwclhxckx.ordn

“Ycp.orceh rckhcm.scvhhw-jsr,cD.wscEhgmk.ger,”cm.ywcJ.qkrxcehdwdsc.gw
uxreymrds,cld.mpygvc.kcpymcd.krcr udhsrxckpxhfvpcpymcmurek.edrmc.cdhhz
hlcmkrxgcxruxh.epnc“Kprce.xcipyepcymck.zygvc rckhckprcmk.kyhgcymc.kckpr
whhxn”

“Hp,c xncJ.qkrxn”cD.wscEhgmk.ger,cmkxhgvcih .gckphfvpcmprci.m,
ldfkkrxrwciykpcwymkxrmmnc“Hp,c xncJ.qkrxn”

“Vhhw-jsrn”cPrcvxyuurwcprxcp.gwcygcjxyrlcl.xrirddc.gwcwyxrekrwcpym
murek.edrmclhxc.ghkprxckrgmrcygmk.gkcfuhgckprcm.vvygvclyvfxrc.kckpr
iygwhinc“Vhhw-jsr,cDhxwcR mihxkpn”

“Rp?cIp.k?cHp!c.p,csrmncVhhw-jsr,c scwr.xclrd----,cYc r.g,cvhhw-jsrn
Y--rx--phurcshfciyddcp.orc.cudr.m.gkcthfxgrsn”

“Kp.gzcshf,”cm.ywcJ.qkrxn

“Jfk,c xncJ.qkrx,”cm.ywcD.wscEhgmk.gern

“DhxwcR mihxkp,”cm.ywckprcrq-mrexrk.xscyeyds,c“Yc. cghcdhgvrxcygcshfx
r udhs rgkcncncn”

“Jfk,c xncJ.qkrx,”c h.grwcD.wscEhgmk.ger,c“mfxrdscncncncrorgcghicncncn
 ymfgwrxmk.gwygvcncncnck.dzcykc.ddchorxcbfyrkdscncncn”

DhxwcR mihxkpcmk.xkrwcoyhdrgkdsn

“Prxr!”cprcuxhkrmkrw,cygc fepckprcm. rc .ggrxc.mckp.kcygcipyepckpr
xrergkc xncEhhkrmcp.wcjrrgcihgkckhcm.sc“Prs!”

“Yclr.xcykcymckhhcd.kr,”cm.ywcJ.qkrx,ckhcpymcyglygykrcxrdyrl,c“kh
k.dzckpygvmchorxnc sc.xx.gvr rgkmc.xrc.dxr.wsc .wrc.gwce.gghkcjr
.dkrxrwncRorxcmygercYce. rcprxrckhcihxzclhxcDhxwcR mihxkp,c sclhx rx
r udhsrx--.gc. rxye.gc yddyhg.yxrcg. rwcTrohgm--p.mcjrrgc .zygvc r
ld.kkrxygvchllrxmckhcxrkfxgckhcpy ncFgkydcghic.c ymk.zrgcmrgmrchl
dhs.dkscp.mczrukc rclxh c.eerukygvckprmrchllrxm,cjfkckpymc hxgygvcY
krdrvx.uprwckhc xncTrohgmckhcm.sckp.kcYci.mc.kcdyjrxksc.gwcehfdwcthyg
py c.kchgerncYkcymckhhcd.krcghickhce.gerdckpymcuxh ymrn”

“Bfykr,cbfykr,chpcerxk.ygds,cbfykr,c fmkg’kcwxr. chlcyk,c scwr.x
lrddhincGh,cgh,cgh,cygwrrwcgh,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkpciykpc.gcrllrxormergk
ehxwy.dykscipyepcmkxfezcjhkpcpymcpr.xrxmc.mcygckprc hmkcwfjyhfmck.mkrn

J.qkrxc rxrdscmkyllrgrwcp.fvpkyds,cjfkcD.wscEhgmk.gerci.mcmhcuhyvg.gkds
.llrekrwcjsckprcihxwmc.gwckprcthshfmckhgrcygcipyepckprscirxrcfkkrxrw
kp.kcmprcehfdwcrgwfxrcprxcjxhkprx’mcdh.kpdscmheyrkscghcdhgvrxncMp.zygv
J.qkrx’mcp.gwchgerc hxrc.gwcv.aygvcmkhgydsclhxc.c h rgkc.kckprcihx cjs
kprciygwhi,cmprcdrlkckprcxhh n

Lhxcmh rcmrehgwmc.lkrxcmprcp.wcvhgr,ckprxrci.mcmydrger--.cmydrgercipyep
DhxwcR mihxkpclhfgwcr j.xx.mmygvncPrckfxgrwckhckprciygwhic.v.ygc.gw
khhzcygciykpchgrciymklfdcvd.gerckprcxhmrm,ckprcuygzm,ckprcu.gmyrm,ckpr
e.xg.kyhgm,ckprcphddsphezm,ckprcehdf jygrm,ckprcd.xzmufxm,ckprcDhgwhg
uxywrc.gwckprcE.gkrxjfxscjrddmnc.gwckprgcmfwwrgdsckprxrce. rckhcpy 
kprcxr.dym.kyhgckp.kciykpcD.wscEhgmk.gercvhgrckprxrcghcdhgvrxcrqymkrw
.gscxr.mhgcipscprcmphfdwcmk.scehhurwcfucygckpymcmkfllscdyjx.xschgckpr
lygrmkc hxgygvckp.kcp.wcrorxcjrrgcmrgkckhcvd.wwrgckprcpr.xkchlc .gncPr
mpyorxrwcremk.kye.ddsclxh ckprckhuchlcpymcj.dwcpr.wckhckprcmhdrmchlcpym
xhh scmphrm,c.gw,cjhfgwygvcvdrrlfddsclxh ckprciygwhi,cmk.xkrwckhc. jdr
.exhmmckprcxhh n

“DhxwcR mihxkp!”

Pymcdhxwmpyucp.dkrwncPymci.mc.chgr-kx.ezc ygw,ce.u.jdrchlc.eeh  hw.kygv
hgdschgrckphfvpkc.kc.cky r--ylckp.k,c.gwcprcp.wc.d hmkclhxvhkkrgckp.k
J.qkrxci.mcmkyddckprxrncPrcrsrwcpymcd.krcmrexrk.xscurroympdsn

“Srm,csrm?cYmckprxrc.gskpygvcncncnc?”

“Ycmphfdwcdyzrckhcmur.zckhcshfclhxc.c h rgkn”

“Ycp.orc.c hmkcy uhxk.gkcehglrxrgerciykpc e.ddymkrxcncncn”

“Yciyddcghkcwrk.ygcshfcdhgvncDhxwcR mihxkp,cYc. cghcdhgvrxcygcshfx
r udhs rgk,cjfkcYckpygzcykc scwfksckhcm.scjrlhxrcYcvhcncncn”

“Gh,cgh,c scwr.xclrddhi,cYcbfykrcfgwrxmk.gwncBfykr,cbfykr,cbfykrn
Ehgmk.gercp.mcjrrgcvhygvchorxc.ddckp.kncYczghicip.kcshfc.xrckxsygvckh
m.sncKp.kc .kkrxchlckprcldhirx-uhkmncUdr.mrcwhcghkc.uhdhvymrncYkcym
bfykrc.ddcxyvpkncYci.mcmk.xkdrwc.kckprcky r,cYchig,cjfkcghcwhfjkcshf
p.wcrqerddrgkc hkyormncDrkcfmclhxvrkckprciphdrc.ll.yxn”

J.qkrxcvxhfgwc.gcy u.kyrgkcprrdcygkhckprce.xurkn

“Ycp.wcghcygkrgkyhgchlcxrlrxxygvckhckprc .kkrxckhcipyepcshfc.ddfwr,”cpr
m.ywnc“Yc rxrdsciymprwcncncn”

“Srm,csrm,chlcehfxmrn”c.co.vx.gkcjxrrarcldh.krwcygc.kckprciygwhi,
d.gvfywciykpcmf  rxcmergkm,c.gwcDhxwcR mihxkp,cmgyllygv,cmpflldrw
xrmkdrmmdsnc“Hlcehfxmr,chlcehfxmr,chlcehfxmrncMh rchkprxcky r,crp?
Srm,csrm,ckp.kciyddcjrce.uyk.dncE.uyk.d,ce.uyk.d,ce.u----”

KprcRllyeyrgkcJ.qkrxcfkkrxrwc.cmhfgwckp.kci.mcu.xkdsc.cexs,cu.xkdsc.
mghxkncYkmcbf.dyksci.mcmhc.xxrmkygvckp.kcDhxwcR mihxkpcu.fmrw,cpym
lygvrxmchgckprcwhhx-p.gwdr,c.gwcurrxrwcj.ezc.kcpy ,cmk.xkdrwn

“Orxscirdd,”cm.ywcJ.qkrxcmphxkdsnc“Ux.scwhcghkcdrkc rczrrucshfncYlcshf
.xrcghkcygkrxrmkrwcygckprcl.ekckp.kcJd.gwygvmcE.mkdrcymcmprdkrxygvc.
exy yg.dcncncn”

Ykci.mcghkcr.msckhcwyorxkcDhxwcR mihxkpciprgcygcbfrmkchlc.gvfm
 e.ddymkrx,cjfkckpymcxr .xzcmfeerrwrwcygcwhygvcmhncPrcdrkcvhchlckpr
whhx-p.gwdrc.gwce. rcj.ezc.cmkruchxckihcygkhckprcxhh n

“Mprdkrxygvc.cexy yg.d?”

“Srmn”cJ.qkrxcvd.gerwc.kcpymci.kepnc“Yc fmkcvhcghichxcYcmp.ddc ymm
 sckx.yg,”cprcm.ywcefxkdsnc“Yci.mc rxrdscvhygvckhckrddcshfckp.kckpym
lrddhiciphce.ddmcpy mrdlcX.dmkhgc eKhwwcymcghkcX.dmkhgc eKhwwc.kc.ddn”

“GhkcX.dmkhgc eKhww?”cxrur.krwcpymcdhxwmpyucjd.gzdsnc“Jfk----”cPr
mfwwrgdscurxeryorwc.cld.icygckprc.xvf rgknc“Jfkcprc_m.yw_cprci.m,”
prcuhygkrwchfkcedrorxdsnc“Srm,cYcxr r jrxcwymkygekdsncPrcm.ywcprci.m
 eKhwwn”

“Prcymc.gcy uhmkhxnc.gwcYcy .vygrckp.kcylcshfcygormkyv.krcshfciyddclygw
kp.kcykcymcprc.gwcpymc.eeh udyermciphcmkhdrcD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcgrezd.ern”

“Jfk,c scwr.xclrddhicncncn”

J.qkrxci.dzrwcjxymzdsckhckprcwhhxn

“Shfcgrrwcghkck.zrc scihxwclhxcyk,”cprcm.ywnc“Ip.kcYcm.sce.gcr.mydscjr
uxhorwncVrkckpymcmh-e.ddrwc eKhwwckhcixykrcpymcg. rchgc.cuyrerchlcu.urx
.gwckprgceh u.xrcykciykpckprcmyvg.kfxrckhckprcdrkkrxcipyepckprcxr.d
 eKhwwcixhkrciprgc.eerukygvcD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcygoyk.kyhgckhckprce.mkdrn
Shfciyddclygwcykclydrwc.i.scygckprcwx.irxchlckp.kcwrmzckprxrn”

DhxwcR mihxkpc.wtfmkrwcpymcvd.mmrmc.gwcmk.xrwc.kckprcwrmzc.mcylcpr
rqurekrwcykckhcwhc.cehgtfxygv-kxyezn

“Yciyddcdr.orcshfckhck.zrcip.kcmkrumcshfcudr.mr,”cm.ywcJ.qkrxnc“Ghi
kp.kcYc. cghcdhgvrxcygcshfxcr udhs rgk,ckprckpygvcwhrmcghkcehgerxgc r
hgrci.schxc.ghkprxncJfkcYckphfvpkcshfc yvpkcjrcvd.wckhcpr.xckprcl.ekmn”

“Hp,cYc_. _!”cxrmuhgwrwcpymcdhxwmpyu,cmkyddcurrxygvco.vfrdsnc“Hp,cY
_. _!cHp,csrm,csrm,csrmncHp,csrm,csrmcncncn”

“Vhhw-jsrn”

“Jfk,cJ.qkrxcncncn”

DhxwcR mihxkpckxhkkrwchfkchgckhckprcd.gwygv,cjfkcJ.qkrxcp.wcvhkchllckh
.cvhhwcmk.xkc.gwci.mc.d hmkchfkchlcmyvpkcxhfgwckprcjrgwchlckprcmk.yxmn

“Jfk,c scwr.xclrddhicncncn”cjdr.krwcpymcdhxwmpyucud.ygkyordschorxckpr
j.gymkrxmn

Lxh cjrdhi,chfkchgckprcwxyor,ce. rckprcmhfgwchlc.gc.fkh hjydrcvrkkygv
ygkhcvr.xc.gwc hoygvchll,ckp.gcipyepcghcmhfgwcymc hxrclyg.dncKprcvxr.k
whhxchlckprce.mkdrcedhmrwciykpc.cmhlkcjfkcmyvgylye.gkcj.gv--.mcwhhxm
edhmrciprgcp.gwdrwcjsc.gcfgkyuurwcjfkdrxncDhxwcR mihxkpcxrkfxgrwckhckpr
dyjx.xsckhcixrmkdrciykpcpymcuxhjdr cfg.ywrwn

Prci.mcvxr.kdscwymkfxjrwnc.u.xkclxh ckprcl.ekckp.kcprcwymdyzrw
exy yg.dmc.gwcy uhmkhxmc.mc.ced.mm,cykci.mc.cmphezckhcpy ckhcdr.xgckp.k
kprcu.xkyefd.xcexy yg.dc.gwcy uhmkhxckprgcygcxrmywrgerc.kcJd.gwygvmci.m
kprc .gclhxciph ,cjxyrlc.mcp.wcjrrgckprcwfx.kyhgchlckpryxc.ebf.ygk.ger,
prcp.wcehgeryorwc.ci.x c.llrekyhgncPrci.mclhgwchlcUm ykpncUm ykp
mhhkprwcpy ncYlcprcp.wcp.wckhcephhmrc.gsc r jrxchlcpymcy  rwy.krceyxedr
lhxckprcxôdrchlcexy yg.dc.gwcy uhmkhx,cprcihfdwcp.orcephmrgcUm ykpcd.mkn

Prcirgkckhckprciygwhic.v.ygc.gwcdhhzrwchfkncKprxrci.mckprcmfgmpygr,
kprxrcirxrckprcjyxwm,ckprxrcirxrckprcphddsphezm,ce.xg.kyhgm,c.gw
E.gkrxjfxscjrddm,c.ddcuxrmrgkc.gwcehxxrek;cjfkcghickprscl.ydrwckh
eprrxcpy ncPrci.mcihgwrxygvcwym .ddscip.kchgcr.xkpcprci.mcvhygvckhcwhn
Ip.kc_wyw_chgrcwhciykpcexy yg.dmc.gwcy uhmkhxm?cP.wc’r c.xxrmkrw,cpr
mfuuhmrwncJfkcprcmpx.gzclxh ckprckphfvpkchlc.xxrmkygvcUm ykpncYkcmrr rw
mhcwrferwcfglxyrgwdsn

Prci.mcmkyddc rwyk.kygvcvdhh ydsciprgc.cohyercmuhzrcjrpygwcpy n

“Vhhwc hxgygvncYc. cdhhzygvclhxc ymmcP.ddyw.sncShfcp.orcghkcmrrgcprxcjs
.gscep.ger?c.p,ckprxrcmprcymcwhigckprxrchgckprckrxx.ern”

DhxwcR mihxkpci.mc.i.xrchlcUm ykpcjrmywrcpy c.kckprciygwhi,ci.oygv
ehxwy.ddsckhcRor,ciphci.orwcj.ezn

“Yckphfvpkcuhmmyjds,”cehgkygfrwcUm ykp,c“kp.kc ymmcP.ddyw.scihfdwcjrcyg
prxcdykkdrcxhh cshgwrx”--prcygwye.krwckprcwf  scjhhz-mprdormckpxhfvp
ipyepcprcp.wcrgkrxrwnc“JfkcYc. cvd.wckhcmrrckp.kckprc hxgygvcymcmhclygr
kp.kcmprcp.mcvyorgckhydckprc ymm-yg-j.fdzncYkcymckprcxyvpkcmuyxyk,”
m.ywcUm ykpnc“Ycdyzrckhcmrrcykn”

DhxwcR mihxkpcurrxrwc.kcpy cgrxohfmdsckpxhfvpcpymcvd.mmrmncPym
r j.xx.mm rgkc.gwcpymcwymk.mkrclhxckprck.mzckp.kcd.scjrlhxrcpy 
ygexr.mrwc.mcprcme.ggrwcpymceh u.gyhgcygco.ygclhxckphmrcmyvgmchl
oydd.ygscipyepc.ddcirdd-xrvfd.krwcexy yg.dmc.gwcy uhmkhxmchfvpkckh
rqpyjykckhckprcrsrchlcwymerxg rgkn

“Yc. cmfxuxymrwckhclygwcshfcygwhhxm,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“hgcmhcvdhxyhfmc.
 hxgygvncYcmphfdwcp.orcmfuuhmrwckp.kcshfcihfdwcp.orcjrrgcwhigckprxr
. hgvckprcmpxfjm,ck.zygvc.cvhhwcmgyllc.kc.cphddsphezchxcmh rkpygvn”

DhxwcR mihxkpcjx.erwcpy mrdlclhxckprchxwr.dn

“Rx,c scwr.xclrddhicncncnckp.kcymckhcm.scncncn”cPrcu.fmrwncUm ykpci.m
xrv.xwygvcpy c.d hmkcdhoygvdsckpxhfvpcpymc hghedr,c.gwcykci.mcjreh ygv
ygexr.mygvdscwyllyefdkckhci.x cfuckhckprcihxzchlcwrghfgeygvcpy n

“Shfcirxrchjmrxoygvcncncnc?”cm.ywcUm ykpn

DhxwcR mihxkpcfkkrxrwcefxyhfmcjfaaygvcghymrmn

“Ycp.orctfmkcu.xkrwclxh cJ.qkrx,”cprcm.ywc.kcdrgvkp,cwreywygvckh
.uuxh.epckprcmfjtrekcygc hxrcxhfgw.jhfkcl.mpyhgn

“Ygwrrw?”cm.ywcUm ykpcehfxkrhfmdsn

“SrmncJ.qkrxcp.mcvhgrn”

“Lhxcrorx?”

“Rx--srmn”

“Mudrgwyw!”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Mudrgwyw,cmudrgwywn”

DhxwcR mihxkpcxr horwcpymcvd.mmrm,ckiywwdrwckpr chgckpryxcehxw,c.gw
xrud.erwckpr chgcpymcghmrn

“Prc .wrcncncncPr--rx--kprcl.ekcym,cprc .wrcncncncJrlhxrcprcirgkcJ.qkrx
 .wrc.c hmkcxr .xz.jdrcmk.kr rgkcncncnc.cep.xvrcncncncIrdd,cygcmphxk,
prc .wrc.corxscmkx.gvrcmk.kr rgkc.jhfkcshfn”

Um ykpcghwwrwcvx.ordsn

“Ycp.wcjrrgcrqurekygvcmh rkpygvchlckprczygw,”cprcm.ywnc“Prcm.yw,cgh
whfjk,ckp.kcYci.mcghkcxr.ddscX.dmkhgc eKhww?”

Pymcdhxwmpyu’mc hfkpchurgrwclrrjdsn

“Rx--srm,”cprcm.ywn

“Y’orcjrrgc r.gygvckhckrddcshfc.jhfkckp.k,”cm.ywcUm ykpc. y.jdsnc“Ykcym
bfykrckxfrncYc. cghkcX.dmkhgc eKhwwn”

“Shf--shfc.w ykcyk!”

“Yc. cuxhfwchlcykn”

DhxwcR mihxkpcwxricpy mrdlcfuncPrcrgwr.ohfxrwckhc.mmf rckprc.kkykfwrchl
mkrxgcergmfxrcipyepce. rcmhcg.kfx.ddsckhcpy cygcygkrxoyrimciykpcpymcmhg
LxrwrxyezncJfkcprc rkcUm ykp’mcrsrc.gwcm.vvrwc.v.ygncJrgr.kpckprcmhdr g
lxyrgwdygrmmchlcUm ykp’mcv.arcp.fkrfxci.mcy uhmmyjdrn

“Kprgcip.kckprcwrferc.xrcshfcwhygvcprxrcfgwrxcpymcg. r?”cprc.mzrw,
ud.eygvcpymclygvrxcygcmk.krm .gdyzrcl.mpyhgchgckprcorxscgfjchlckpr
uxhjdr nc“Yc r.gckhcm.s,”cprcirgkchg,c .zygvcpymc r.gygvcedr.xrx,c“yl
shfc.xrg’kc eKhww,cipscwywcshfceh rcprxrcm.sygvcshfcirxrc eKhww?”

Um ykpcghwwrwcmdhidsn

“Kprcuhygkcymcirddck.zrg,”cprcm.ywnc“Yci.mcrqurekygvcshfckhc.mzckp.k
bfrmkyhgncUxy .xyds--Yci.gkcghckp.gzm,cjfkcuxy .xydscYcwywcykckhcm.or
shfcr j.xx.mm rgkn”

“M.orc rcr j.xx.mm rgk?”

“UxreymrdsncIprgcYce. rcygkhckprcm hzygv-xhh chlchfxc fkf.dcedfjckp.k
.lkrxghhgciprgcshfcp.wcjrrgcrgkrxk.ygygvcEh x.wrc eKhwwc.kcdfgep,cY
lhfgwcpy chgckprcuhygkchlcu.mmygvchfkchlcshfxcdylrclhxcrorxncYkcmrr m
kp.kcprcp.wck.zrgcf jx.vrckhcmh rcmdyvpkcrqkrgkcjre.fmrcshfcp.wcjfaarw
hllckhcep.kciykpckprcldhxymkc.exhmmckprci.scygmkr.wchlcxr .ygygvciykp
py nc.gw,c.lkrxcircp.wcrqep.gvrwc.cudr.m.gkcihxwchxckih,cprcdrvvrwcyk,
dr.oygvcshfcmphxkchgrc hwrxgcuhrkncHgcshfxcxrkfxgcYcmkruurwcygkhckpr
jxr.epckhcm.orcshfclxh ckprcygehgorgyrgerchlcp.oygvckhcxrkfxgcprxr
iykphfkc.c eKhwwchlc.gscwrmexyukyhgncGhchgr,chlcehfxmr,cehfdwcp.orcjrrg
 hxrc.dyorckp.gc smrdlckhckprcl.ekckp.kcYci.mc rxrdsc.cuhhxcmfjmkykfkr,
.cmhxkchlcmsgkprkyec eKhww,cjfkcmkyddcYcehgmywrxrwckp.kcYci.mcjrkkrx
kp.gcghkpygv,cmhcYce. rc.dhgvn”

Pymcdhxwmpyucwyvrmkrwckpymcrqud.g.kyhgcygcmydrgerncKprgcprcmryarwchgc.
 .vgylyergkcuhygkn

“.xrcshfc.c r jrxchlckprcMrgyhxcEhgmrxo.kyorcEdfj?”

“ hmkcerxk.ygdsn”

“Ips,ckprg,cw.mpcyk,”cexyrwcpymcdhxwmpyu,cu.sygvckhckp.kc.fvfmk
mkxhgvphdwchlcxrmurek.jydyksc.mcmkxyzygvc.ckxyjfkrc.mcykcp.wcrorx
xreryorw,c“ylcshf’xrc.c r jrxchlckprcMrgyhxcEhgmrxo.kyor,cshfce.g’kcjr
.cexy yg.dncJ.qkrx’mc.gc.mm!”

“Rq.ekdsn”

“J.qkrxcihfdwcp.orcykckp.kcshfcp.wcmkhdrgc scmymkrx’mcgrezd.ern”

“Yce.gc.mmfxrcshfckp.kcYcp.orcghkcvhkcD.wscEhgmk.ger’mcgrezd.ern”

“Hlcehfxmrcghk,chlcehfxmrcghk,c scwr.xclrddhincY’ chgdsckrddygvcshf
ip.kckp.kcywyhkcJ.qkrxcm.ywncKp.gzcvhhwgrmmcY’orcvhkcxywchlckpr
lrddhin”c.cedhfwcu.mmrwchorxcpymcghicmfggscl.ernc“Kphfvp,cehglhfgwcyk,
Ehggyrci.mcxyvpkc.jhfkchgrckpygvn”cPrcxrd.umrwcygkhc.cmh rip.kc hhws
mydrgern

“Srm?”cm.ywcUm ykpn

“Rp?”cm.ywcpymcdhxwmpyun

“Shfcirxrcm.sygvckp.kcD.wscEhgmk.gercp.wcjrrgcxyvpkc.jhfkchgrckpygvn”

“Hp,csrmncMprci.mcm.sygvckp.kcYcmphfdwcp.orc.cp.xwcky rclygwygvc.ghkprx
mrexrk.xsc.mce.u.jdrc.mcJ.qkrxn”

Um ykpcurx ykkrwcpy mrdlckhcjrmkhic.gcrgehfx.vygvcu.kchgcpymcphmk’m
mphfdwrxn

“Shfcp.orckhfeprwchgc.c .kkrx,”cprcm.yw,c“ipyepcYcp.wcygkrgwrwckh
jxh.epckhcshfc.kcmh rcehgorgyrgkc h rgkciprgcshfcirxrc.kcdrymfxrncYl
shfcihfdwce.xrckhc.eerukc scmrxoyerm,ckprsc.xrc.kcshfxcwymuhm.dn”

“Rp?”

“Kprcl.ekcym,”cm.ywcUm ykp,c“Yc. cmphxkdsc.jhfkckhcjrc .xxyrw,c.gwcyk
ymc hxrchxcdrmmcy urx.kyorckp.kcYcehggrekciykpcmh rcthjcipyepciydd
rgmfxrc.c hwrx.krceh urkrgerncIpscmphfdwcYcghkcjreh rcshfxcmrexrk.xs?”

“Shfci.gkckhcjrc scmrexrk.xs?”

“Shfcp.orcfgx.orddrwc sc r.gygvcrq.ekdsn”

“JfkcY’orcgrorxcp.wc.c .xxyrwcmrexrk.xsn”

“Yckpygzckp.kcshfcihfdwclygwc.cmkr.wsc .xxyrwc .gc.gcy uxhor rgk
hgckprmrciydw,cldhirx-uhk-kpxhiygvcj.eprdhxmncYlcykcihfdwcprduckh
ygldfrgercshfxcwreymyhg,cYc .scm.sckp.kc scjxywr-kh-jrcymc ymm
P.ddyw.s,cuxhj.jdsckprclygrmkcdyjx.xs-e.k.dhvfymkcygckprcFgykrw
Zygvwh n”

“Rp?c ymmcP.ddyw.s?cKp.kcvyxdcwhigckprxr?”

“Ghchkprx,”cm.ywcUm ykp,ci.oygvclhgwdsc.kcRorc.mcmprcu.mmrwcfgwrxgr.kp
kprciygwhinc“Ygcl.ek,ckprcm. rn”

“JfkcYcdyzrcprx,”cm.ywcDhxwcR mihxkp,c.mcylcmk.kygvc.gcygmfurx.jdr
hjtrekyhgn

“Rqerddrgkn”

“Mpr’mc.cgyercvyxdn”

“Ycbfykrc.vxrrciykpcshfn”

“Whcshfckpygzcshfcehfdwcxr.ddscdhhzc.lkrxckpygvmcprxrcdyzrcJ.qkrx?”

“Yc. cehgoygerwchlcykn”

“Kprg,c scwr.xclrddhi--irdd,cxr.ddscYc fmkcm.scncncncYc fmkcm.scncncn
irdd,cYc r.g,cipscmphfdwg’kcshf?”

“Uxreymrds,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Shfcp.orcufkcygc.cgfkmprddckprcorxsckpygvcY
p.orcjrrgckxsygvckhcrquxrmmn”

“Jfkcp.orcshfcp.wc.gscrqurxyrgerc.mc.cmrexrk.xs?”

“Yc fmkc.w ykckp.kcYcp.orcghkncShfcmrr,cfgkydcxrergkdscYci.mc hxrchx
drmmchgrchlckprcywdrcxyepncYckhydrwcghk,cgrykprxcwywcY--rqerukchger,
.lkrxc.cjf u-mfuurxc.kcE. jxywvr--muygnc scg. r,curxp.umcYchfvpkckh
xror.dckhcshf,cymcUm ykp--kprcucymcmydrgk--.gwcfgkydcorxscxrergkdscY
dyorwcygc.lldfrgercghkcl.xclxh ckprcoydd.vrchlc fepc ywwdrlhdwcygckpym
ehfgksnc scg. rcymcuxhj.jdscfgl. ydy.xckhcshf,cjfkcshfc .scp.orcpr.xw
hlckprcphfmrcipyepci.mclhxc .gscsr.xmckprcUm ykpcpr.w-bf.xkrxm--Ehxljs
P.ddn”

DhxwcR mihxkpctrxzrwcpymcvd.mmrmchllcpymcghmrn

“EhxljscP.dd!c.xrcshfckprcmhgchlckprcM ykpciphcfmrwckhchigcEhxljscP.dd?
Ips,cjdrmmc scmhfd,cYczgricshfxcl.kprxcirddn”

“Xr.dds?”

“SrmncKp.kcymckhcm.s,cYcgrorxc rkcpy n”

“Gh?”

“JfkcYcihgckprclyxmkcuxyarclhxcxhmrmc.kckprcMpxrimjfxscLdhirxcMphickpr
sr.xcprcihgckprcuxyarclhxckfdyumn”

“Ykcmrr mckhcwx.icfmcorxscedhmrckhvrkprx,”cm.ywcUm ykpn

“Ips,c scwr.xcjhs,”cexyrwcDhxwcR mihxkpctfjyd.gkds,c“ylcshfc.xrcxr.dds
dhhzygvclhxc.cuhmykyhgchlcmh rczygwc.gwcihfdwce.xrckhcjrc scmrexrk.xs,
ghkpygvcehfdwcmfykc rcjrkkrxncGhkpygv,cghkpygv,cghkpygvncIps,cjdrmmc s
mhfdcncncn”

“Yc. crqkxr rdschjdyvrw,”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“.gwcYcmp.ddcrgwr.ohfxckhcvyor
m.kyml.ekyhgnc.gwcmfxrds,cylc.c rxrcJ.qkrxcehfdwcphdwcwhigckprcthj,cyk
mphfdwcjrcirddciykpygckprcmehurchlc.cMpxhumpyxrcUm ykpncYckpygzcmh,cY
kpygzcmhncncncnc.gwcghi,cylcshfciyddcrqefmrc r,cYckpygzcYciyddcvhcwhig
.gwckrddckprcvd.wcgrimckhckprcdykkdrcih .g,cylcYc .scmhcwrmexyjrcprxn”

ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*ccccccc*

Um ykpc .wrcpymci.scwhigckprcjxh.wcmk.yxe.mrc.kc.gcrorgcjrkkrxcu.er
kp.gckp.kcxrergkdsc.epyrorwcjsckprcwru.xkygvcJ.qkrx,clhxcprcxyvpkds
ehgmywrxrwcr.epc h rgkchlckpymcrqerddrgkcw.sci.mkrwckp.kci.mcghkcmurgk
ygckprceh u.gschlcRorncPrcexhhgrwcjdykprdsckhcpy mrdlc.mcprcu.mmrw
kpxhfvpckprcp.dd,chgdscu.fmygvciprg,c.mcprcu.mmrwckprcwhhxchlckpr
m hzygv-xhh ,ckprcPhgncLxrwwyrcKpxrruihhwcmfwwrgdscr rxvrwn

“Hp,cYcm.s!”cm.ywcLxrwwyrnc“TfmkckprclrddhicYci.gkrwckhcmrrncYci.m
vhygvchllckhcdhhzclhxcshfn”

Lxrwwyr’mckhgrci.mcehxwy.dykscykmrdlnc.mcl.xc.mcLxrwwyrci.mcehgerxgrw,
.ddckp.kcp.wcu.mmrwcjrkirrgckpr cygckprcehkk.vrcygckprcirmkcihhwcd.mk
gyvpkci.mclhxvyorgc.gwclhxvhkkrgn

“M.schg,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,”cxrudyrwcUm ykp;c“.gw,cylcYc .schllrxckpr
mfvvrmkyhg,c .zrcykcmg.uus,clhxcYcihfdwcjrcrdmriprxrncYcp.orc .g’mcihxz
jrlhxrc rn”

“Eh rchorxcprxrn”cLxrwwyrcwxricpy cygkhc.cl.xcehxgrxchlckprcp.ddc.gw
dhirxrwcpymcohyerckhc.cipymurxnc“Ycm.s,cyk’mc.ddcxyvpk,cshfczghin”

“Rqerddrgk!”cm.ywcUm ykpnc“Mudrgwyw!cKpymcymcvxr.kcgrimncIp.kcymc.dd
xyvpk?”

“Y’orctfmkcmrrgcFgedrcThrncPr’mcvhygvckhcehfvpcfuckprc hgrscprcuxh ymrw
 rn”

“Ycehgvx.kfd.krcshfn”

“MhcghicYcmp.ddcjrc.jdrckhcvrkcygkhckp.kcjhhzyr’mcjfmygrmmc.gwc .zrc.
uydrnc.gw,cYcm.s,cshfcxr r jrxc sckrddygvcshfc.jhfkc ymmcP.ddyw.s?”

“Ip.kci.mckp.k?”

“Ips,ckp.kcYcdhorwcprx,cYc r.g,c.gwc.ddckp.kn”

“.p,csrmn”

“Irdd,cdhhzcprxr,cjrkirrgchfxmrdorm,”cm.ywcLxrwwyrcr.xgrmkds,c“kpr
iphdrckxhfjdrc.ddc.dhgvcp.mcjrrgckp.kcmprckphfvpkcYcp.wg’kc.gsc hgrsckh
vrkc .xxyrwchgncMprcwywg’kc.ekf.ddscm.scmhcygcmhc .gscihxwm,cjfkcshf
zghicphicykcymciykpcih rg--shfce.gcxr.wcjrkirrgckprcdygrm,cylcshfczghi
ip.kcYc r.gncMhcghicrorxskpygv’mcvhygvckhcjrc.ddcxyvpkncYcmp.ddcmy uds
vhckhcprxc.gwcm.s,c‘Irdd,cip.kc.jhfkcyk?’c.gw--irdd,c.gwcmhchg,cwhg’k
shfczghi?”

Um ykpcehgmywrxrwckprcuhygkcvx.ordsn

“Ycmrrcshfxcxr.mhgygv,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,”cprcm.ywnc“Yce.gcwrkrekcjfk
hgrcld.icygcykn”

“Ld.i?cIp.kcld.i?”

“Kprcl.ekckp.kc ymmcP.ddyw.scymcvhygvckhc .xxsc_ r_n”

KprcPhgncLxrwwyr’mct.icwxhuurwncPymcuxh ygrgkcrsrmcjre. rc hxr
ux.ig-dyzrn

“Ip.k!”

Um ykpcu.kkrwcpymcmphfdwrxceh  ymrx.kygvdsn

“Jrc.c .g,cEh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,c.gwcjykrckprcjfddrkncKprmrckpygvmciydd
p.uurgckhckprcjrmkchlcfmncMh rcw.scshfciyddcjrckp.gzlfdckp.kckpymcp.m
heefxxrwncUfxvrwcygckprcphdhe.fmkchlc.c yvpkscdhor,cshfciyddci.gwrxchfk
ygkhckprcmfgmrk,c.clygrx,cjxh.wrxc .gncncncnc.gwcghicYc fmkcxrdfek.gkds
kr.xc smrdlc.i.sncYcp.orc.gcy uhxk.gkc.uuhygk rgkn”cPrcu.kkrwcpym
mphfdwrxchgerc hxrnc“Ylcshfcihfdwce.xrckhcjrc.cu.vrc.kckprcirwwygv,
Eh x.wrcKpxrruihhw,cYce.gcphgrmkdscm.sckp.kckprxrcymcghchgrciph cY
ihfdwcx.kprxcp.orcygckp.kce.u.eyksn”

.gwciykpc.cmk.krdscvrmkfxrchlcl.xrirdd,cUm ykpcu.mmrwchfkchgckhckpr
krxx.erckhcthygcRorn


KPRcRGW





RgwchlckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcRJhhzchlcDr.orcykckhcUm ykp,cjscUncVncIhwrphfmr

***cRGWcHLcKPYMcUXHTREKcVFKRGJRXVcRJHHZcDR.ORcYKcKHcUM YKPc***

*****cKpymclydrcmphfdwcjrcg. rwc60067-0nkqkchxc60067-0nayuc*****
Kpymc.gwc.ddc.mmhey.krwclydrmchlco.xyhfmclhx .kmciyddcjrclhfgwcyg:
ccccccccpkku://iiinvfkrgjrxvnhxv/6/0/0/6/60067/

UxhwferwcjscX. hgcU.t.xrmcJhq,cTy c.wehezc.gwckprcHgdygr
WymkxyjfkrwcUxhhlxr.wygvcKr. c.kcpkku://iiinuvwungrk

Fuw.krwcrwykyhgmciyddcxrud.erckprcuxroyhfmchgr--kprchdwcrwykyhgmciydd
jrcxrg. rwn

Exr.kygvckprcihxzmclxh cuxygkcrwykyhgmcghkcuxhkrekrwcjscFnMncehusxyvpk
d.ic r.gmckp.kcghchgrchigmc.cFgykrwcMk.krmcehusxyvpkcygckprmrcihxzm,
mhckprcLhfgw.kyhgc(.gwcshf!)ce.gcehusc.gwcwymkxyjfkrcykcygckprcFgykrw
Mk.krmciykphfkcurx ymmyhgc.gwciykphfkcu.sygvcehusxyvpk
xhs.dkyrmncMurey.dcxfdrm,cmrkclhxkpcygckprcVrgrx.dcKrx mchlcFmrcu.xk
hlckpymcdyergmr,c.uudsckhcehusygvc.gwcwymkxyjfkygvcUxhtrek
Vfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzmckhcuxhkrekckprcUXHTREKcVFKRGJRXV-k 
ehgerukc.gwckx.wr .xzncUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcymc.cxrvymkrxrwckx.wr .xz,
.gwc .scghkcjrcfmrwcylcshfcep.xvrclhxckprcrJhhzm,cfgdrmmcshfcxreryor
mureylyecurx ymmyhgncYlcshfcwhcghkcep.xvrc.gskpygvclhxcehuyrmchlckpym
rJhhz,ceh udsygvciykpckprcxfdrmcymcorxscr.msncShfc .scfmrckpymcrJhhz
lhxcgr.xdsc.gscufxuhmrcmfepc.mcexr.kyhgchlcwrxyo.kyorcihxzm,cxruhxkm,
urxlhx .germc.gwcxrmr.xepncKprsc .scjrc hwylyrwc.gwcuxygkrwc.gwcvyorg
.i.s--shfc .scwhcux.ekye.ddsc.GSKPYGVcygckprcFgykrwcMk.krmciykpcrJhhzm
ghkcuxhkrekrwcjscFnMncehusxyvpkcd.incXrwymkxyjfkyhgcymcmfjtrekckhckpr
kx.wr .xzcdyergmr,crmurey.ddsceh  rxey.dcxrwymkxyjfkyhgn

MK.XK:cLFDDcDYERGMR

KPRcLFDDcUXHTREKcVFKRGJRXVcDYERGMR
UDR.MRcXR.WcKPYMcJRLHXRcSHFcWYMKXYJFKRcHXcFMRcKPYMcIHXZ

KhcuxhkrekckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k c ymmyhgchlcuxh hkygvckprclxrr
wymkxyjfkyhgchlcrdrekxhgyecihxzm,cjscfmygvchxcwymkxyjfkygvckpymcihxz
(hxc.gschkprxcihxzc.mmhey.krwcygc.gsci.sciykpckprcupx.mrc"Uxhtrek
Vfkrgjrxv"),cshfc.vxrrckhceh udsciykpc.ddckprckrx mchlckprcLfdd
UxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cDyergmrc.o.yd.jdrciykpckpymclydrchxchgdygrc.k
iiinvfkrgjrxvnhxv/dyergmrn

Mrekyhgc1ncVrgrx.dcKrx mchlcFmrc.gwcXrwymkxyjfkygvcUxhtrek
Vfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzm

1n.ncJscxr.wygvchxcfmygvc.gscu.xkchlckpymcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k 
rdrekxhgyecihxz,cshfcygwye.krckp.kcshfcp.orcxr.w,cfgwrxmk.gw,c.vxrrckh
.gwc.eerukc.ddckprckrx mchlckpymcdyergmrc.gwcygkrddrekf.dcuxhurxks
(kx.wr .xz/ehusxyvpk)c.vxrr rgkncYlcshfcwhcghkc.vxrrckhc.jywrcjsc.dd
kprckrx mchlckpymc.vxrr rgk,cshfc fmkcer.mrcfmygvc.gwcxrkfxgchx
wrmkxhsc.ddcehuyrmchlcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzmcygcshfx
uhmmrmmyhgncYlcshfcu.ywc.clrrclhxchjk.ygygvc.cehuschlchxc.eermmckhc.
UxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzc.gwcshfcwhcghkc.vxrrckhcjrcjhfgw
jsckprckrx mchlckpymc.vxrr rgk,cshfc .schjk.ygc.cxrlfgwclxh ckpr
urxmhgchxcrgkyksckhciph cshfcu.ywckprclrrc.mcmrkclhxkpcygcu.x.vx.up
1nRn8n

1nJnc"UxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv"cymc.cxrvymkrxrwckx.wr .xzncYkc .schgdscjr
fmrwchgchxc.mmhey.krwcygc.gsci.sciykpc.gcrdrekxhgyecihxzcjscurhudrciph
.vxrrckhcjrcjhfgwcjsckprckrx mchlckpymc.vxrr rgkncKprxrc.xrc.clri
kpygvmckp.kcshfce.gcwhciykpc hmkcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzm
rorgciykphfkceh udsygvciykpckprclfddckrx mchlckpymc.vxrr rgkncMrr
u.x.vx.upc1nEcjrdhincKprxrc.xrc.cdhkchlckpygvmcshfce.gcwhciykpcUxhtrek
Vfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzmcylcshfclhddhickprckrx mchlckpym
.vxrr rgkc.gwcprducuxrmrxorclxrrclfkfxrc.eermmckhcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k 
rdrekxhgyecihxzmncMrrcu.x.vx.upc1nRcjrdhin

1nEncKprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcDykrx.xsc.xepyorcLhfgw.kyhgc("kpr
Lhfgw.kyhg"chxcUVD.L),chigmc.ceh uyd.kyhgcehusxyvpkcygckprcehddrekyhg
hlcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzmncGr.xdsc.ddckprcygwyoywf.d
ihxzmcygckprcehddrekyhgc.xrcygckprcufjdyecwh .ygcygckprcFgykrw
Mk.krmncYlc.gcygwyoywf.dcihxzcymcfguxhkrekrwcjscehusxyvpkcd.icygckpr
FgykrwcMk.krmc.gwcshfc.xrcdhe.krwcygckprcFgykrwcMk.krm,circwhcghk
ed.y c.cxyvpkckhcuxrorgkcshfclxh cehusygv,cwymkxyjfkygv,curxlhx ygv,
wymud.sygvchxcexr.kygvcwrxyo.kyorcihxzmcj.mrwchgckprcihxzc.mcdhgvc.m
.ddcxrlrxrgermckhcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvc.xrcxr horwncHlcehfxmr,circphur
kp.kcshfciyddcmfuuhxkckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k c ymmyhgchlcuxh hkygv
lxrrc.eermmckhcrdrekxhgyecihxzmcjsclxrrdscmp.xygvcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k 
ihxzmcygceh udy.gerciykpckprckrx mchlckpymc.vxrr rgkclhxczrruygvckpr
UxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cg. rc.mmhey.krwciykpckprcihxzncShfce.gcr.myds
eh udsciykpckprckrx mchlckpymc.vxrr rgkcjsczrruygvckpymcihxzcygckpr
m. rclhx .kciykpcykmc.kk.eprwclfddcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cDyergmrciprg
shfcmp.xrcykciykphfkcep.xvrciykpchkprxmn

1nWncKprcehusxyvpkcd.imchlckprcud.erciprxrcshfc.xrcdhe.krwc.dmhcvhorxg
ip.kcshfce.gcwhciykpckpymcihxzncEhusxyvpkcd.imcygc hmkcehfgkxyrmc.xr
ygc.cehgmk.gkcmk.krchlcep.gvrncYlcshfc.xrchfkmywrckprcFgykrwcMk.krm,
eprezckprcd.imchlcshfxcehfgkxscygc.wwykyhgckhckprckrx mchlckpym
.vxrr rgkcjrlhxrcwhigdh.wygv,cehusygv,cwymud.sygv,curxlhx ygv,
wymkxyjfkygvchxcexr.kygvcwrxyo.kyorcihxzmcj.mrwchgckpymcihxzchxc.gs
hkprxcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cihxzncKprcLhfgw.kyhgc .zrmcgh
xruxrmrgk.kyhgmcehgerxgygvckprcehusxyvpkcmk.kfmchlc.gscihxzcygc.gs
ehfgkxschfkmywrckprcFgykrwcMk.krmn

1nRncFgdrmmcshfcp.orcxr horwc.ddcxrlrxrgermckhcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv:

1nRn1ncKprclhddhiygvcmrgkrger,ciykpc.ekyorcdygzmckh,chxchkprx
y  rwy.krc.eermmckh,ckprclfddcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cDyergmrc fmkc.uur.x
uxh ygrgkdsciprgrorxc.gscehuschlc.cUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cihxzc(.gscihxz
hgcipyepckprcupx.mrc"UxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv"c.uur.xm,chxciykpcipyepckpr
upx.mrc"UxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv"cymc.mmhey.krw)cymc.eermmrw,cwymud.srw,
urxlhx rw,coyrirw,cehuyrwchxcwymkxyjfkrw:

ccKpymcrJhhzcymclhxckprcfmrchlc.gshgrc.gsiprxrcygckprcFgykrwcMk.krmc.gw
cc hmkchkprxcu.xkmchlckprcihxdwc.kcghcehmkc.gwciykpc.d hmkcgh
ccxrmkxyekyhgmcip.kmhrorxncShfc .scehuscyk,cvyorcykc.i.schxcxr-fmrcyk
ccfgwrxckprckrx mchlckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcDyergmrcygedfwrwciykpckpym
ccrJhhzchxchgdygrc.kciiinvfkrgjrxvnhxvncYlcshfc.xrcghkcdhe.krwcygckpr
ccFgykrwcMk.krm,cshf'ddcp.orckhceprezckprcd.imchlckprcehfgkxsciprxrcshf
cc.xrcdhe.krwcjrlhxrcfmygvckpymcrjhhzn

1nRn2ncYlc.gcygwyoywf.dcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzcym
wrxyorwclxh ckrqkmcghkcuxhkrekrwcjscFnMncehusxyvpkcd.ic(whrmcghk
ehgk.ygc.cghkyercygwye.kygvckp.kcykcymcuhmkrwciykpcurx ymmyhgchlckpr
ehusxyvpkcphdwrx),ckprcihxzce.gcjrcehuyrwc.gwcwymkxyjfkrwckhc.gshgrcyg
kprcFgykrwcMk.krmciykphfkcu.sygvc.gsclrrmchxcep.xvrmncYlcshfc.xr
xrwymkxyjfkygvchxcuxhoywygvc.eermmckhc.cihxzciykpckprcupx.mrc"Uxhtrek
Vfkrgjrxv"c.mmhey.krwciykpchxc.uur.xygvchgckprcihxz,cshfc fmkceh uds
rykprxciykpckprcxrbfyxr rgkmchlcu.x.vx.upmc1nRn1ckpxhfvpc1nRn7chx
hjk.ygcurx ymmyhgclhxckprcfmrchlckprcihxzc.gwckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k 
kx.wr .xzc.mcmrkclhxkpcygcu.x.vx.upmc1nRn8chxc1nRn9n

1nRn3ncYlc.gcygwyoywf.dcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzcymcuhmkrw
iykpckprcurx ymmyhgchlckprcehusxyvpkcphdwrx,cshfxcfmrc.gwcwymkxyjfkyhg
 fmkceh udsciykpcjhkpcu.x.vx.upmc1nRn1ckpxhfvpc1nRn7c.gwc.gs
.wwykyhg.dckrx mcy uhmrwcjsckprcehusxyvpkcphdwrxnc.wwykyhg.dckrx m
iyddcjrcdygzrwckhckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cDyergmrclhxc.ddcihxzm
uhmkrwciykpckprcurx ymmyhgchlckprcehusxyvpkcphdwrxclhfgwc.kckpr
jrvyggygvchlckpymcihxzn

1nRn4ncWhcghkcfgdygzchxcwrk.epchxcxr horckprclfddcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k 
Dyergmrckrx mclxh ckpymcihxz,chxc.gsclydrmcehgk.ygygvc.cu.xkchlckpym
ihxzchxc.gschkprxcihxzc.mmhey.krwciykpcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k n

1nRn5ncWhcghkcehus,cwymud.s,curxlhx ,cwymkxyjfkrchxcxrwymkxyjfkrckpym
rdrekxhgyecihxz,chxc.gscu.xkchlckpymcrdrekxhgyecihxz,ciykphfk
uxh ygrgkdscwymud.sygvckprcmrgkrgercmrkclhxkpcygcu.x.vx.upc1nRn1ciykp
.ekyorcdygzmchxcy  rwy.krc.eermmckhckprclfddckrx mchlckprcUxhtrek
Vfkrgjrxv-k cDyergmrn

1nRn6ncShfc .scehgorxkckhc.gwcwymkxyjfkrckpymcihxzcygc.gscjyg.xs,
eh uxrmmrw,c .xzrwcfu,cghguxhuxyrk.xschxcuxhuxyrk.xsclhx ,cygedfwygv
.gscihxwcuxhermmygvchxcpsurxkrqkclhx ncPhirorx,cylcshfcuxhoywrc.eermm
khchxcwymkxyjfkrcehuyrmchlc.cUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cihxzcygc.clhx .k
hkprxckp.gc"Ud.ygcO.gydd.c.MEYY"chxchkprxclhx .kcfmrwcygckprchllyey.d
orxmyhgcuhmkrwchgckprchllyey.dcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cirjcmykr
(iiinvfkrgjrxvnhxv),cshfc fmk,c.kcghc.wwykyhg.dcehmk,clrrchxcrqurgmr
khckprcfmrx,cuxhoywrc.cehus,c.c r.gmchlcrquhxkygvc.cehus,chxc.c r.gm
hlchjk.ygygvc.cehuscfuhgcxrbfrmk,chlckprcihxzcygcykmchxyvyg.dc"Ud.yg
O.gydd.c.MEYY"chxchkprxclhx nc.gsc.dkrxg.krclhx .kc fmkcygedfwrckpr
lfddcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cDyergmrc.mcmureylyrwcygcu.x.vx.upc1nRn1n

1nRn7ncWhcghkcep.xvrc.clrrclhxc.eermmckh,coyriygv,cwymud.sygv,
urxlhx ygv,cehusygvchxcwymkxyjfkygvc.gscUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cihxzm
fgdrmmcshfceh udsciykpcu.x.vx.upc1nRn8chxc1nRn9n

1nRn8ncShfc .scep.xvrc.cxr.mhg.jdrclrrclhxcehuyrmchlchxcuxhoywygv
.eermmckhchxcwymkxyjfkygvcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzm
uxhoywrwckp.k

*cShfcu.sc.cxhs.dksclrrchlc20%chlckprcvxhmmcuxhlykmcshfcwrxyorclxh 
cckprcfmrchlcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cihxzmce.defd.krwcfmygvckprc rkphw
ccshfc.dxr.wscfmrckhce.defd.krcshfxc.uudye.jdrck.qrmncKprclrrcymchirw
cckhckprchigrxchlckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k ckx.wr .xz,cjfkcprcp.m
cc.vxrrwckhcwhg.krcxhs.dkyrmcfgwrxckpymcu.x.vx.upckhckprcUxhtrek
ccVfkrgjrxvcDykrx.xsc.xepyorcLhfgw.kyhgncXhs.dkscu.s rgkmc fmkcjrcu.yw
cciykpygc60cw.smclhddhiygvcr.epcw.krchgcipyepcshfcuxru.xrc(hxc.xr
ccdrv.ddscxrbfyxrwckhcuxru.xr)cshfxcurxyhwyeck.qcxrkfxgmncXhs.dks
ccu.s rgkmcmphfdwcjrcedr.xdsc .xzrwc.mcmfepc.gwcmrgkckhckprcUxhtrek
ccVfkrgjrxvcDykrx.xsc.xepyorcLhfgw.kyhgc.kckprc.wwxrmmcmureylyrwcyg
ccMrekyhgc4,c"Yglhx .kyhgc.jhfkcwhg.kyhgmckhckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv
ccDykrx.xsc.xepyorcLhfgw.kyhgn"

*cShfcuxhoywrc.clfddcxrlfgwchlc.gsc hgrscu.ywcjsc.cfmrxciphcghkylyrm
ccshfcygcixykygvc(hxcjscr- .yd)ciykpygc30cw.smchlcxreryukckp.kcm/pr
ccwhrmcghkc.vxrrckhckprckrx mchlckprclfddcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k 
ccDyergmrncShfc fmkcxrbfyxrcmfepc.cfmrxckhcxrkfxgchxcwrmkxhsc.dd
ccehuyrmchlckprcihxzmcuhmmrmmrwcygc.cupsmye.dc rwyf c.gwcwymehgkygfr
cc.ddcfmrchlc.gwc.ddc.eermmckhchkprxcehuyrmchlcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k 
ccihxzmn

*cShfcuxhoywr,cygc.eehxw.gerciykpcu.x.vx.upc1nLn3,c.clfddcxrlfgwchl
cc.gsc hgrscu.ywclhxc.cihxzchxc.cxrud.er rgkcehus,cylc.cwrlrekcygckpr
ccrdrekxhgyecihxzcymcwymehorxrwc.gwcxruhxkrwckhcshfciykpygc90cw.smchl
ccxreryukchlckprcihxzn

*cShfceh udsciykpc.ddchkprxckrx mchlckpymc.vxrr rgkclhxclxrr
ccwymkxyjfkyhgchlcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cihxzmn

1nRn9ncYlcshfciympckhcep.xvrc.clrrchxcwymkxyjfkrc.cUxhtrek
Vfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzchxcvxhfuchlcihxzmchgcwyllrxrgkckrx mckp.g
.xrcmrkclhxkpcygckpymc.vxrr rgk,cshfc fmkchjk.ygcurx ymmyhgcygcixykygv
lxh cjhkpckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcDykrx.xsc.xepyorcLhfgw.kyhgc.gwcKpr
UxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcKx.wr .xzcDDE,ckprchigrxchlckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k 
kx.wr .xzncEhgk.ekckprcLhfgw.kyhgc.mcmrkclhxkpcygcMrekyhgc3cjrdhin

1nLn

1nLn1ncUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcohdfgkrrxmc.gwcr udhsrrmcrqurgwcehgmywrx.jdr
rllhxkckhcywrgkyls,cwhcehusxyvpkcxrmr.xepchg,ckx.gmexyjrc.gwcuxhhlxr.w
ihxzmcghkcuxhkrekrwcjscFnMncehusxyvpkcd.icygcexr.kygvckprcUxhtrek
Vfkrgjrxv-k cehddrekyhgncWrmuykrckprmrcrllhxkm,cUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k 
rdrekxhgyecihxzm,c.gwckprc rwyf chgcipyepckprsc .scjrcmkhxrw,c .s
ehgk.ygc"Wrlrekm,"cmfepc.m,cjfkcghkcdy ykrwckh,cygeh udrkr,cyg.eefx.kr
hxcehxxfukcw.k.,ckx.gmexyukyhgcrxxhxm,c.cehusxyvpkchxchkprx
ygkrddrekf.dcuxhurxkscyglxygvr rgk,c.cwrlrekyorchxcw. .vrwcwymzchx
hkprxc rwyf ,c.ceh ufkrxcoyxfm,chxceh ufkrxcehwrmckp.kcw. .vrchx
e.gghkcjrcxr.wcjscshfxcrbfyu rgkn

1nLn2ncDY YKRWcI.XX.GKS,cWYMED.Y RXcHLcW. .VRMc-cRqerukclhxckprc"Xyvpk
hlcXrud.er rgkchxcXrlfgw"cwrmexyjrwcygcu.x.vx.upc1nLn3,ckprcUxhtrek
VfkrgjrxvcDykrx.xsc.xepyorcLhfgw.kyhg,ckprchigrxchlckprcUxhtrek
Vfkrgjrxv-k ckx.wr .xz,c.gwc.gschkprxcu.xkscwymkxyjfkygvc.cUxhtrek
Vfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzcfgwrxckpymc.vxrr rgk,cwymed.y c.dd
dy.jydyksckhcshfclhxcw. .vrm,cehmkmc.gwcrqurgmrm,cygedfwygvcdrv.d
lrrmncSHFc.VXRRcKP.KcSHFcP.ORcGHcXR RWYRMcLHXcGRVDYVRGER,cMKXYEK
DY.JYDYKS,cJXR.EPcHLcI.XX.GKScHXcJXR.EPcHLcEHGKX.EKcRQERUKcKPHMR
UXHOYWRWcYGcU.X.VX.UPc1nLn3ncSHFc.VXRRcKP.KcKPRcLHFGW.KYHG,cKPR
KX.WR .XZcHIGRX,c.GWc.GScWYMKXYJFKHXcFGWRXcKPYMc.VXRR RGKcIYDDcGHKcJR
DY.JDRcKHcSHFcLHXc.EKF.D,cWYXREK,cYGWYXREK,cEHGMRBFRGKY.D,cUFGYKYORcHX
YGEYWRGK.DcW. .VRMcRORGcYLcSHFcVYORcGHKYERcHLcKPRcUHMMYJYDYKScHLcMFEP
W. .VRn

1nLn3ncDY YKRWcXYVPKcHLcXRUD.ER RGKcHXcXRLFGWc-cYlcshfcwymehorxc.
wrlrekcygckpymcrdrekxhgyecihxzciykpygc90cw.smchlcxreryoygvcyk,cshfce.g
xreryorc.cxrlfgwchlckprc hgrsc(ylc.gs)cshfcu.ywclhxcykcjscmrgwygvc.
ixykkrgcrqud.g.kyhgckhckprcurxmhgcshfcxreryorwckprcihxzclxh ncYlcshf
xreryorwckprcihxzchgc.cupsmye.dc rwyf ,cshfc fmkcxrkfxgckprc rwyf 
iykpcshfxcixykkrgcrqud.g.kyhgncKprcurxmhgchxcrgkyksckp.kcuxhoywrwcshf
iykpckprcwrlrekyorcihxzc .scrdrekckhcuxhoywrc.cxrud.er rgkcehuscyg
dyrfchlc.cxrlfgwncYlcshfcxreryorwckprcihxzcrdrekxhgye.dds,ckprcurxmhg
hxcrgkykscuxhoywygvcykckhcshfc .scephhmrckhcvyorcshfc.cmrehgw
huuhxkfgyksckhcxreryorckprcihxzcrdrekxhgye.ddscygcdyrfchlc.cxrlfgwncYl
kprcmrehgwcehuscymc.dmhcwrlrekyor,cshfc .scwr .gwc.cxrlfgwcygcixykygv
iykphfkclfxkprxchuuhxkfgykyrmckhclyqckprcuxhjdr n

1nLn4ncRqerukclhxckprcdy ykrwcxyvpkchlcxrud.er rgkchxcxrlfgwcmrkclhxkp
ygcu.x.vx.upc1nLn3,ckpymcihxzcymcuxhoywrwckhcshfc'.M-YM',cIYKPcGH
HKPRXcI.XX.GKYRMcHLc.GScZYGW,cRQUXRMMcHXcY UDYRW,cYGEDFWYGVcJFKcGHK
DY YKRWcKHcI.XX.GKYRMcHLc RXEP.GK.JYDYKScHXcLYKGRMMcLHXc.GScUFXUHMRn

1nLn5ncMh rcmk.krmcwhcghkc.ddhicwymed.y rxmchlcerxk.ygcy udyrw
i.xx.gkyrmchxckprcrqedfmyhgchxcdy yk.kyhgchlcerxk.ygcksurmchl
w. .vrmncYlc.gscwymed.y rxchxcdy yk.kyhgcmrkclhxkpcygckpymc.vxrr rgk
oyhd.krmckprcd.ichlckprcmk.krc.uudye.jdrckhckpymc.vxrr rgk,ckpr
.vxrr rgkcmp.ddcjrcygkrxuxrkrwckhc .zrckprc .qy f cwymed.y rxchx
dy yk.kyhgcurx ykkrwcjsckprc.uudye.jdrcmk.krcd.incKprcygo.dywykschx
fgrglhxer.jydykschlc.gscuxhoymyhgchlckpymc.vxrr rgkcmp.ddcghkcohywckpr
xr .ygygvcuxhoymyhgmn

1nLn6ncYGWR GYKSc-cShfc.vxrrckhcygwr gylsc.gwcphdwckprcLhfgw.kyhg,ckpr
kx.wr .xzchigrx,c.gsc.vrgkchxcr udhsrrchlckprcLhfgw.kyhg,c.gshgr
uxhoywygvcehuyrmchlcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzmcyg
.eehxw.gerciykpckpymc.vxrr rgk,c.gwc.gscohdfgkrrxmc.mmhey.krwciykpckpr
uxhwfekyhg,cuxh hkyhgc.gwcwymkxyjfkyhgchlcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k 
rdrekxhgyecihxzm,cp.x drmmclxh c.ddcdy.jydyks,cehmkmc.gwcrqurgmrm,
ygedfwygvcdrv.dclrrm,ckp.kc.xymrcwyxrekdschxcygwyxrekdsclxh c.gschl
kprclhddhiygvcipyepcshfcwhchxce.fmrckhcheefx:c(.)cwymkxyjfkyhgchlckpym
hxc.gscUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cihxz,c(j)c.dkrx.kyhg,c hwylye.kyhg,chx
.wwykyhgmchxcwrdrkyhgmckhc.gscUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cihxz,c.gwc(e)c.gs
Wrlrekcshfce.fmrn

Mrekyhgc2ncYglhx .kyhgc.jhfkckprc ymmyhgchlcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k 

UxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cymcmsghgs hfmciykpckprclxrrcwymkxyjfkyhgchl
rdrekxhgyecihxzmcygclhx .kmcxr.w.jdrcjsckprciywrmkco.xyrkschl
eh ufkrxmcygedfwygvchjmhdrkr,chdw,c ywwdr-.vrwc.gwcgriceh ufkrxmncYk
rqymkmcjre.fmrchlckprcrllhxkmchlcpfgwxrwmchlcohdfgkrrxmc.gwcwhg.kyhgm
lxh curhudrcygc.ddci.dzmchlcdylrn

Ohdfgkrrxmc.gwclyg.gey.dcmfuuhxkckhcuxhoywrcohdfgkrrxmciykpckpr
.mmymk.gerckprscgrrwc.xrcexykye.dckhcxr.epygvcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k 'm
vh.dmc.gwcrgmfxygvckp.kckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cehddrekyhgciydd
xr .ygclxrrdsc.o.yd.jdrclhxcvrgrx.kyhgmckhceh rncYgc2001,ckprcUxhtrek
VfkrgjrxvcDykrx.xsc.xepyorcLhfgw.kyhgci.mcexr.krwckhcuxhoywrc.cmrefxr
.gwcurx .grgkclfkfxrclhxcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k c.gwclfkfxr
vrgrx.kyhgmncKhcdr.xgc hxrc.jhfkckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcDykrx.xs
.xepyorcLhfgw.kyhgc.gwcphicshfxcrllhxkmc.gwcwhg.kyhgmce.gcprdu,cmrr
Mrekyhgmc3c.gwc4c.gwckprcLhfgw.kyhgcyglhx .kyhgcu.vrc.k
iiinvfkrgjrxvnhxv



Mrekyhgc3ncYglhx .kyhgc.jhfkckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcDykrx.xsc.xepyorcLhfgw.kyhg

KprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcDykrx.xsc.xepyorcLhfgw.kyhgcymc.cghgcuxhlyk
501(e)(3)crwfe.kyhg.dcehxuhx.kyhgchxv.gyarwcfgwrxckprcd.imchlckpr
mk.krchlc ymmymmyuuyc.gwcvx.gkrwck.qcrqr ukcmk.kfmcjsckprcYgkrxg.d
XrorgfrcMrxoyerncKprcLhfgw.kyhg'mcRYGchxclrwrx.dck.qcywrgkylye.kyhg
gf jrxcymc64-6221541ncEhgkxyjfkyhgmckhckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcDykrx.xs
.xepyorcLhfgw.kyhgc.xrck.qcwrwfekyjdrckhckprclfddcrqkrgkcurx ykkrwcjs
FnMnclrwrx.dcd.imc.gwcshfxcmk.kr'mcd.imn

KprcLhfgw.kyhg'mcuxygeyu.dchllyercymcygcL.yxj.gzm,c.d.mz.,ciykpckpr
 .ydygvc.wwxrmm:cUHcJhqc750175,cL.yxj.gzm,c.Zc99775,cjfkcykm
ohdfgkrrxmc.gwcr udhsrrmc.xrcme.kkrxrwckpxhfvphfkcgf rxhfm
dhe.kyhgmncYkmcjfmygrmmchllyercymcdhe.krwc.kc809cGhxkpc1500cIrmk,cM.dk
D.zrcEyks,cFKc84116,c(801)c596-1887ncR .ydcehgk.ekcdygzmc.gwcfuckh
w.krcehgk.ekcyglhx .kyhgce.gcjrclhfgwc.kckprcLhfgw.kyhg'mcirjcmykrc.gw
hllyey.dcu.vrc.kciiinvfkrgjrxvnhxv/ehgk.ek

Lhxc.wwykyhg.dcehgk.ekcyglhx .kyhg:

ccccWxncVxrvhxscJncGrijs
ccccEpyrlcRqrefkyorc.gwcWyxrekhx
ccccvjgrijs@uvd.lnhxv

Mrekyhgc4ncYglhx .kyhgc.jhfkcWhg.kyhgmckhckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv
Dykrx.xsc.xepyorcLhfgw.kyhg

UxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k cwrurgwmcfuhgc.gwce.gghkcmfxoyorciykphfkciywr
muxr.wcufjdyecmfuuhxkc.gwcwhg.kyhgmckhce.xxschfkcykmc ymmyhgchl
ygexr.mygvckprcgf jrxchlcufjdyecwh .ygc.gwcdyergmrwcihxzmckp.kce.gcjr
lxrrdscwymkxyjfkrwcygc .epygrcxr.w.jdrclhx c.eermmyjdrcjsckprciywrmk
.xx.schlcrbfyu rgkcygedfwygvchfkw.krwcrbfyu rgknc .gscm .ddcwhg.kyhgm
($1ckhc$5,000)c.xrcu.xkyefd.xdscy uhxk.gkckhc .ygk.ygygvck.qcrqr uk
mk.kfmciykpckprcYXMn

KprcLhfgw.kyhgcymceh  ykkrwckhceh udsygvciykpckprcd.imcxrvfd.kygv
ep.xykyrmc.gwcep.xyk.jdrcwhg.kyhgmcygc.ddc50cmk.krmchlckprcFgykrw
Mk.krmncEh udy.gercxrbfyxr rgkmc.xrcghkcfgylhx c.gwcykck.zrmc.
ehgmywrx.jdrcrllhxk,c fepcu.urxihxzc.gwc .gsclrrmckhc rrkc.gwczrrucfu
iykpckprmrcxrbfyxr rgkmncIrcwhcghkcmhdyeykcwhg.kyhgmcygcdhe.kyhgm
iprxrcircp.orcghkcxreryorwcixykkrgcehglyx .kyhgchlceh udy.gerncKhcMRGW
WHG.KYHGMchxcwrkrx ygrckprcmk.kfmchlceh udy.gerclhxc.gscu.xkyefd.x
mk.krcoymykciiinvfkrgjrxvnhxv/whg.kr

Ipydrcirce.gghkc.gwcwhcghkcmhdyeykcehgkxyjfkyhgmclxh cmk.krmciprxrcir
p.orcghkc rkckprcmhdyeyk.kyhgcxrbfyxr rgkm,circzghichlcghcuxhpyjykyhg
.v.ygmkc.eerukygvcfgmhdyeykrwcwhg.kyhgmclxh cwhghxmcygcmfepcmk.krmciph
.uuxh.epcfmciykpchllrxmckhcwhg.krn

Ygkrxg.kyhg.dcwhg.kyhgmc.xrcvx.krlfddsc.eerukrw,cjfkcirce.gghkc .zr
.gscmk.kr rgkmcehgerxgygvck.qckxr.k rgkchlcwhg.kyhgmcxreryorwclxh 
hfkmywrckprcFgykrwcMk.krmncFnMncd.imc.dhgrcmi. uchfxcm .ddcmk.lln

Udr.mrceprezckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcIrjcu.vrmclhxcefxxrgkcwhg.kyhg
 rkphwmc.gwc.wwxrmmrmncWhg.kyhgmc.xrc.eerukrwcygc.cgf jrxchlchkprx
i.smcygedfwygvceprezm,chgdygrcu.s rgkmc.gwcexrwykce.xwcwhg.kyhgmncKh
whg.kr,cudr.mrcoymyk:ciiinvfkrgjrxvnhxv/whg.kr

Mrekyhgc5ncVrgrx.dcYglhx .kyhgc.jhfkcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k crdrekxhgyecihxzmn

Uxhlrmmhxc yep.rdcMncP.xkci.mckprchxyvyg.khxchlckprcUxhtrek
Vfkrgjrxv-k cehgerukchlc.cdyjx.xschlcrdrekxhgyecihxzmckp.kcehfdwcjr
lxrrdscmp.xrwciykpc.gshgrncLhxclhxkscsr.xm,cprcuxhwferwc.gw
wymkxyjfkrwcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k crJhhzmciykpchgdsc.cdhhmrcgrkihxzchl
ohdfgkrrxcmfuuhxkn

UxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k crJhhzmc.xrchlkrgcexr.krwclxh cmrorx.dcuxygkrw
rwykyhgm,c.ddchlcipyepc.xrcehglyx rwc.mcghkcuxhkrekrwcjscehusxyvpkcyg
kprcFnMncfgdrmmc.cehusxyvpkcghkyercymcygedfwrwncKpfm,circwhcghk
grermm.xydsczrrucrJhhzmcygceh udy.gerciykpc.gscu.xkyefd.xcu.urx
rwykyhgn

 hmkcurhudrcmk.xkc.kchfxcIrjcmykrcipyepcp.mckprc .ygcUVcmr.xep
l.eydyks:ciiinvfkrgjrxvnhxv

KpymcIrjcmykrcygedfwrmcyglhx .kyhgc.jhfkcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxv-k ,
ygedfwygvcphickhc .zrcwhg.kyhgmckhckprcUxhtrekcVfkrgjrxvcDykrx.xs
.xepyorcLhfgw.kyhg,cphickhcprducuxhwferchfxcgricrJhhzm,c.gwcphickh
mfjmexyjrckhchfxcr .ydcgrimdrkkrxckhcpr.xc.jhfkcgricrJhhzmn

