
HqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawG jjtwjrwDxigkhmcgowjrwQmstng gccbwRzkk,wSjuynghg
 bwUdctwHedzkw(OdumgnwSngugko)

Hqzowg jjtwzowrjcwhqgwmogwjrwdkbjkgwdkbeqgcgwdhwkjwsjohwdkxwezhqwdnujoh
kjwcgohczshzjkoweqdhojgigcpwBjmwudbwsjybwzh,wazigwzhwdedbwjcwcg-mog
zhwmkxgcwhqgwhgcuowjrwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawNzsgkogwzksnmxgxwezhqwhqzo
g jjtwjcwjknzkgwdhweeepamhgk gcapkgh

Hzhng:wDxigkhmcgowjrwQmstng gccbwRzkk,wSjuynghg

Dmhqjc:wUdctwHedzkw(OdumgnwSngugko)

CgngdogwXdhg:wDmamohw20,w2006w[G jjtw#76]
NdohwMyxdhgx:wRg cmdcbw23,w2018
Ndkamdag:wGkanzoq

Sqdcdshgcwoghwgksjxzka:wMHR-8

***wOHDCHwJRwHQZOwYCJ.GSHwAMHGK GCAwG JJTwQMSTNG GCCBwRZKKw***

Ycjxmsgxw bwXdizxwEzxagc





DXIGKHMCGO

JR

QMSTNG GCCBwRZKK

(HjuwOdebgc'owSjucdxg)

 bwUdctwHedzk

Sjuynghg




SJKHGKHOp

SQDYHGCwZpwSziznzlzkawQmstp--UzoowEdhojkp--HjuwOdebgcwEdzhop

SQDYHGCwZZpwHqgw jbowGosdygw.zup--HjckwOdebgc'owAdkap--Xggy-ndzxwYndkop

SQDYHGCwZZZpwDwAjjxwAjzka-jigcp--AcdsgwHczmuyqdkhp--“JkgwjrwHjuwOdebgco'o
Nzgo”p

SQDYHGCwZIpwQmstwdkxwhqgw.mxagp--Omygcohzhzjkp

SQDYHGCwIpwQmst'owRdhqgcp--HqgwRjkxwYdcgkhp--Cgrjcup

SQDYHGCwIZpwQgwEgkhwrjcw.mxagwHqdhsqgcp--QmstwXgszxgxwhjwNgdigp--Yjnzhzsdn
Gsjkjubp--HqcdoqzkawDcjmkxp

SQDYHGCwIZZpwNdbzkawrjcwQzup--NjstgxwzkwhqgwSd zkp--Ozktzkawhqg
 jxbp--Cgohzkap

SQDYHGCwIZZZpwOnggyzkawzkwhqgwEjjxop--CdzozkawhqgwXgdxp--Gfynjczkawhqg
Zondkxp--Rzkxzkaw.zup--.zu'owGosdygp--Ozakop-- dnmup

SQDYHGCwZFpwHqgwSdigp--HqgwRnjdhzkawQjmogp

SQDYHGCwFpwHqgwRzkxp--JnxwQdktw mktgcp--ZkwXzoamzogp

SQDYHGCwFZpwQmstwdkxwhqgwEjudkp--HqgwOgdcsqp--Ycgidczsdhzjkp--Ajzkawhj
Ajoqgkp

SQDYHGCwFZZpwOnjewKdizadhzjkp-- jccjezkawHqzkaop-- jdcxzkawhqgwEcgstp--Hqg
Ynjhhgcop--Qmkhzkawrjcwhqgw jdhp

SQDYHGCwFZZZpwGosdyzkawrcjuwhqgwEcgstp--HqgwEdhsqudkp--Ozktzkap

SQDYHGCwFZIpwDwAgkgcdnwAjjxwHzugp--HqgwQdcgup--Rcgksqp

SQDYHGCwFIpwQmstwNjogowhqgwCdrhp--ZkwhqgwRjap--QmstwRzkxowhqgwCdrhp--Hcdoqp

SQDYHGCwFIZpwGfygshdhzjkp--DwEqzhgwNzgp--RnjdhzkawSmccgksbp--Cmkkzkaw b
Sdzcjp--OezuuzkawDoqjcgp

SQDYHGCwFIZZpwDkwGigkzkawSdnnp--HqgwRdcuwzkwDctdkodep--Zkhgczjc
Xgsjcdhzjkop--OhgyqgkwXjenzkaw jhop--YjghzsdnwGrrmozjkop

SQDYHGCwFIZZZpwSjnpwAcdkagcrjcxp--Dczohjscdsbp--Rgmxop--Hqg
Hgohdugkhp--CgsjigczkawhqgwCdrhp--HqgwEjjx--yzngp--YjctwdkxwSd  dagp

SQDYHGCwFZFpwHbzkawMywXdb--hzugop--DkwDohcjkjuzsdnwHqgjcbp--Cmkkzkawd
HguygcdksgwCgizidnp--HqgwXmtgwjrw czxagedhgcp--HqgwHcjm ngowjrwCjbdnhbp

SQDYHGCwFFpwQmstwGfyndzkop--NdbzkawJmhwdwSduydzakp--Ejctzkawhqg
Sduy--ugghzkap--DwYzcdhgwdhwhqgwSduy--ugghzkap--HqgwXmtgwdowdwYczkhgcp

SQDYHGCwFFZpwOejcxwGfgcszogp--Qdungh'owOjnznjvmbp--HqgbwNjdrgxwDcjmkx
Hjekp--DwNdlbwHjekp--Jnxw jaaop--Xgdxp

SQDYHGCwFFZZpwOqgc mckp--DhhgkxzkawhqgwSzcsmop--Zkhjfzsdhzjkwzkwhqg
Czkap--HqgwHqcznnzkawHcdagxbp

SQDYHGCwFFZZZpwOjnxp--CjbdnwSjuydczojkop--.zuwAghowQjug-ozstp

SQDYHGCwFFZIpw.zuwzkwCjbdnwCj gop--HqgbwHdtgwdwYdoogkagcp--Aghhzka
Zkrjcudhzjkp--RduznbwAczgrp

SQDYHGCwFFIpwZowZhwHqgu?--Ozkazkawhqgw“Xjfjnjagcp”--DermnwOvmdcg--Rmkgcdn
Jcazgop--Dw dxwZkigohugkhwp

SQDYHGCwFFIZpwDwYzjmowTzkap--HqgwTzka'owSngcabp--OqgwDotgxwQzo
Ydcxjkp--QzxzkawzkwhqgwCjjup--QmstwHdtgowhqgwUjkgbp

SQDYHGCwFFIZZpwHqgwRmkgcdnp--OdhzorbzkawSmczjozhbp--Omoyzszjmowjr
Qmst,--VmzstwOdngowdkxwOudnnp

SQDYHGCwFFIZZZpwHqgwHczywhjwGkandkxp--“Hqgw cmhg!”--Udcbw.dkgwXgszxgowhj
Ngdigp--QmstwYdchzkawezhqwUdcbw.dkgp--Umuyop--HqgwJyyjozhzjkwNzkgp

SQDYHGCwFFZFpwSjkhgohgxwCgndhzjkoqzyp--HqgwTzkawGfyndzkowhqgwNjoop--D
VmgohzjkwjrwQdkxeczhzkap--XzaazkawmywhqgwSjcyogp--QmstwGosdygop

SQDYHGCwFFFpwHqgwTzkawEgkhwrjcwQzup--DwCjbdnwCjep--YjegcrmnwUgnnjep

SQDYHGCwFFFZpwJuzkjmowYndkop--Kgeowrcjuw.zup--JnxwCgsjnngshzjkop--DwOqggy
Ohjcbp--Idnmd ngwZkrjcudhzjkp

SQDYHGCwFFFZZpwOhznnwdkxwOmkxdb--nztgp--UzohdtgkwZxgkhzhbp--MywdwOhmuyp--Zk
dwXznguudp

SQDYHGCwFFFZZZpwDwKzaagcwOhgdngcp--OjmhqgckwQjoyzhdnzhbp--DwYcghhbwNjka
 ngoozkap--HdcwdkxwRgdhqgcop

SQDYHGCwFFFZIpwHqgwQmhw bwhqgwDoqwQjyygcp--Jmhcdagjmop--Snzu zkawhqg
NzaqhkzkawCjxp--Hcjm ngxwezhqwEzhsqgop

SQDYHGCwFFFIpwGosdyzkawYcjygcnbp--XdctwOsqgugop--Xzosczuzkdhzjkwzk
Ohgdnzkap--DwXggywQjngp

SQDYHGCwFFFIZpwHqgwNzaqhkzkawCjxp--QzowNgignw gohp--Dw gvmgohwhj
Yjohgczhbp--DwQzaqwRzamcgp

SQDYHGCwFFFIZZpwHqgwNdohwOqzchp--UjjkzkawDcjmkxp--OdznzkawJcxgcop--Hqg
EzhsqwYzgp

SQDYHGCwFFFIZZZpwHqgwSjdhwjrwDcuop--DwOtznngxwOmygczkhgkxgkhp--Mkyngdodkh
Anjcbp--DwHgdcrmnwOm .gshp

SQDYHGCwFFFZFpwCdhop--Nzignbw gx--rgnnjeop--HqgwOhcdewXmuubp

SQDYHGCwFNpwRzoqzkap--HqgwIzazndksgwSjuuzhhggp--DwNzignbwCmkp--.zuwDxizogo
dwXjshjcp

SQDYHGCwFNZpwHqgwXjshjcp--MksngwOzndop--OzohgcwQjhsqtzoop--DmkhwOdnnbwzk
Hcjm ngp

SQDYHGCwFNZZpwHjuwOdebgcwEjmkxgxp--HqgwXjshjc'owOhjcbp--Hju
Sjkrgoogop--DmkhwYjnnbwDcczigop--QdkxwJmhwHqguwNghhgcow   p

SQDYHGCwHQGwNDOHpwJmhwjrw jkxdagp--YdbzkawhqgwSdyhzigp--BjmcowHcmnb,wQmst
Rzkkp




ZNNMOHCDHZJKOp


HqgwEzxjeo

Ujogowdkxwhqgw“ mncmoqgco”

UzoowEdhojk

QmstwOhgdnzkawDedb

HqgbwHzy-hjgxwDnjka

.zu

HjuwOdebgc'ow dkxwjrwCj  gco  

QmstwScggyowzkhjwqzowEzkxje

UzoowEdhojk'owNgshmcg

HqgwCj  gcowXzoygcogx

Cm  zkawhqgwNduy

!w!w!w!

.mxagwHqdhsqgcwomcyczogx

.zuwNzohgkzka

“Ydy”

QmstwdkxwqzowRdhqgc

CgrjcuzkawhqgwXcmktdcx

RdnnzkawrcjuwAcdsg

AghhzkawjmhwjrwhqgwEdb

OjnzxwSjurjch

HqzktzkawzhwJigc

CdzozkawdwQjen

“AzhwMy”

HqgwOqdkhb

OqjjhzkawhqgwYza

HdtzkawdwCgoh

ZkwhqgwEjjxo

Edhsqzkawhqgw jdh

XzosjigczkawhqgwSduywRzcg

.zuwdkxwhqgwAqjoh

Uzohjw cdxzoq'owKzaagc

GfynjczkawhqgwSdig

ZkwhqgwSdig

.zuwoggowdwXgdxwUdk

HqgbwRjmkxwGzaqhwXjnndco

.zuwdkxwhqgwOkdtg

JnxwQdktw mktgc

“DwRdzcwRzh”

“SjugwZk”

“QzuwdkxwdkjhqgcwUdk”

OqgwymhowmywdwOkdst

“QmuywBjmcognr”

JkwhqgwCdrh

QgwojughzugowNzrhgxwdwSqzstgk

“Yngdogwxjk'h,w znn”

“Zhwdzk'hwAjjxwUjcdno”

“Jq!wNjcxb,wNjcxb!”

ZkwdwRzf

“Qgnnj,wEqdh'owMy?”

HqgwEcgst

EgwhmckgxwzkwdkxwOngyh

HmckzkawjigcwhqgwHcmst

OjnjujkwdkxwqzowUznnzjkwEzigo

Hqgwohjcbwjrw“Ojnngcumk”

“EgwEjmnxwOgnnwhqgwCdrh”

DujkawhqgwOkdao

DonggywjkwhqgwCdrh

“Ojughqzkaw gzkawCdrhoudk”

“ jb,whqdh'owdwNzg”

“QgcgwZwzo,wQmst”

Snzu zkawmywhqgw dkt

“Eqj'owHqgcg?”

“ mst”

“ZhwudxgwQgcwnjjtwOyzxgcb”

“HqgbwajhwqzuwjmhwdkxwguyhzgxwQzu”w 

HqgwQjmog

SjnpwAcdkagcrjcx

BjmkawQdckgbwOqgyqgcxojk

UzoowSqdcnjhhg

“DkxwdotgxwugwzrwZwNztgxwQgc”

“ gqzkxwhqgwEjjx-yzng”

QzxzkawXdb-hzugo

“DkxwXjaowd-Sjuzka”

“ bwczaqhowZwduwdwXmtg!”

“ZwduwhqgwNdhgwXdmyqzk”

HdznwYzgsg

JkwhqgwCdrh

HqgwTzkawdow.mnzgh

“SjmchzkawjkwhqgwOnb”

“DwYzcdhgwrjcwHqzchbwBgdco”

Dkjhqgcwnzhhngw.j 

Ycdshzlzka

Qdungh'owOjnznjvmb

“AzuugwdwSqde”

DwNzhhngwUjkhqnbwXcmkt

HqgwXgdhqwjrw jaao

Oqgc mckwohgyowjmh

DwXgdxwQgdx

QgwoqgxwOgigkhggkwOmzho

Hcdagxb

HqgzcwYjstghow mnagx

QgkcbwhqgwGzaqhqwzkw johjkwQdc jc

Qdcungoo

Dxjnyqmo

QgwrdzcnbwguyhzgxwhqdhwBjmkawRgnnje

“Dndo,wjmcwYjjcw cjhqgc”

“Bjmw ghwzhwzo”

Ngdtzka

Udtzkawmywhqgw“Xgrrzozh”

Ajzkawrjcwqzu

HqgwXjshjc

Hqgw dawjrwUjkgb

HqgwSm  b

OmyygcwezhqwhqgwQdcg-Nzy

QjkgohwZk.mk

HqgwXmtgwnjjtowmkxgcwhqgw gx

QmstwhdtgowhqgwUjkgb

DwScdstwzkwhqgwXzkzka-cjjuwXjjc

HqgwMkxgchdtgc

“QgwqdxwdwCdh!”

“EdowbjmwzkwubwCjju?”

.dezka

ZkwHcjm ng

Zkxzakdhzjk

QjewhjwRzkxwHqgu

QgwEcjhg

QdkkdqwezhqwhqgwUmuyo

HqgwDmshzjk

HqgwHcmgw cjhqgco

HqgwXjshjcwngdxowQmst

HqgwXmtgwEcjhg

“Agkhngugk,wAgkhngugk!”

“.zuwNzhwJmh”

HqgwTzkawoqdtgowQmst

HqgwXmtgwegkhwrjcwQzu

OydkzoqwUjoo

“EqjwKdzngxwQzu?”

Hqzktzka

QgwadigwqzuwHgkwSgkho

Ohcztzkawrjcwhqgw dstwSjmkhcb

OhznnwdkxwOmkxdb-nztg

Oqgwqmaagxwqzuwhzaqh

“Eqjwxjwbjmwcgstjkwzhwzo?”

“ZhwedowHjuwOdebgc”

“UcpwDcsqz dnxwKzsqjno,wZwycgomug?”

Dwycghhbwnjkaw ngoozka

Hcdignzkaw bwCdzn

Izhhngo

DwOzuyngw.j 

Ezhsqgo

AghhzkawEjjx

Jkgwjrwhqgw gohwDmhqjczhzgo

Hqgw cgdtrdoh-Qjck

OujmsqzkawhqgwTkzigo

AjzkawxjekwhqgwNzaqhkzka-Cjx

Ohgdnzkawoyjjko

HjuwdxizogowdwEzhsqwYzg

HqgwCm  dag-Yzng

“Uzoomo,wxgb'owdwOqgghwAjkg”

ZkwdwHgdczkawEdb

JkgwjrwqzowDksgohjco

.zu'owSjdhwjrwDcuo

DwHjmaqw.j 

 mhhjkowjkwhqgzcwHdzno

Zcczadhzjk

TggyzkawjrrwXmnnwHzugo

OdexmohwXzgh

Hcjm ngwzow cgezka

Rzoqzka

GigcbwjkgwqdxwdwAmk

HjuwsdmaqhwjkwdwOynzkhgc

.zuwdxizogowdwXjshjc

HqgwXjshjc

MksngwOzndowzkwXdkagc

JnxwUcopwQjhsqtzoo

DmkhwOdnnbwhdntowhjwQmst

HjuwOdebgcwejmkxgx

HqgwXjshjcwoygdtowrjcw.zu

Hjuwcjogwovmdcgwmywzkw gx

“QdkxwjmhwhqguwNghhgco”

Jmhwjrw jkxdag

Hju'owNz gcdnzhb

BjmcowHcmnb




GFYNDKDHJCB

ZKwhqzow jjtwdwkmu gcwjrwxzdngshowdcgwmogx,whjwezh:w hqgwUzoojmczwkgacj
xzdngsh;whqgwgfhcgugohwrjcuwjrwhqgw dstejjxowOjmhqegohgckwxzdngsh;whqg
jcxzkdcbw“YztgwSjmkhb”wxzdngsh;wdkxwrjmcwujxzrzgxwidczghzgowjrwhqzo
ndohpwHqgwoqdxzkaowqdigwkjhw ggkwxjkgwzkwdwqdyqdldcxwrdoqzjk,wjcw b
amgooejct;w mhwydzkohdtzkanb,wdkxwezhqwhqgwhcmohejchqbwamzxdksgwdkx
omyyjchwjrwygcojkdnwrduznzdczhbwezhqwhqgogwogigcdnwrjcuowjrwoyggsqp

Zwudtgwhqzowgfyndkdhzjkwrjcwhqgwcgdojkwhqdhwezhqjmhwzhwudkbwcgdxgco
ejmnxwomyyjogwhqdhwdnnwhqgogwsqdcdshgcowegcgwhcbzkawhjwhdntwdnztgwdkx
kjhwomssggxzkap

HQGwDMHQJCp




QMSTNG GCCBwRZKK

Osgkg:w HqgwUzoozoozyyzwIdnngbwHzug:w Rjchbwhjwrzrhbwbgdcowdaj




SQDYHGCwZp

BJMwxjk'hwtkjewd jmhwugwezhqjmhwbjmwqdigwcgdxwdw jjtw bwhqgwkdugwjrwHqg
DxigkhmcgowjrwHjuwOdebgc;w mhwhqdhwdzk'hwkjwudhhgcpw Hqdhw jjtwedowudxg
 bwUcpwUdctwHedzk,wdkxwqgwhjnxwhqgwhcmhq,wudzknbpw Hqgcgwedowhqzkao
eqzsqwqgwohcghsqgx,w mhwudzknbwqgwhjnxwhqgwhcmhqpw Hqdhwzowkjhqzkapw Z
kgigcwoggkwdkb jxbw mhwnzgxwjkgwhzugwjcwdkjhqgc,wezhqjmhwzhwedowDmkh
Yjnnb,wjcwhqgwezxje,wjcwudb gwUdcbpw DmkhwYjnnb--Hju'owDmkhwYjnnb,woqg
zo--dkxwUdcb,wdkxwhqgwEzxjewXjmandowzowdnnwhjnxwd jmhwzkwhqdhw jjt,weqzsq
zowujohnbwdwhcmgw jjt,wezhqwojugwohcghsqgco,wdowZwodzxw grjcgp

Kjewhqgwedbwhqdhwhqgw jjtwezkxowmywzowhqzo:w Hjuwdkxwugwrjmkxwhqgwujkgb
hqdhwhqgwcj  gcowqzxwzkwhqgwsdig,wdkxwzhwudxgwmowczsqpw Egwajhwozf
hqjmodkxwxjnndcowdyzgsg--dnnwajnxpw Zhwedowdkwdermnwozaqhwjrwujkgbweqgk
zhwedowyzngxwmypw Egnn,w.mxagwHqdhsqgcwqgwhjjtwzhwdkxwymhwzhwjmh
dhwzkhgcgoh,wdkxwzhwrghsqgxwmowdwxjnndcwdwxdbwdyzgsgwdnnwhqgwbgdc
cjmkx--ujcgwhqdkwdw jxbwsjmnxwhgnnweqdhwhjwxjwezhqpw HqgwEzxjewXjmando
oqgwhjjtwugwrjcwqgcwojk,wdkxwdnnjegxwoqgwejmnxwoziznzlgwug;w mhwzhwedo
cjmaqwnzizkawzkwhqgwqjmogwdnnwhqgwhzug,wsjkozxgczkawqjewxzoudnwcgamndc
dkxwxgsgkhwhqgwezxjewedowzkwdnnwqgcwedbo;wdkxwojweqgkwZwsjmnxk'hwohdkx
zhwkjwnjkagcwZwnzhwjmhpw Zwajhwzkhjwubwjnxwcdaowdkxwubwomadc-qjaoqgdx
dadzk,wdkxwedowrcggwdkxwodhzorzgxpw  mhwHjuwOdebgcwqgwqmkhgxwugwmywdkx
odzxwqgwedowajzkawhjwohdchwdw dkxwjrwcj  gco,wdkxwZwuzaqhw.jzkwzrwZ
ejmnxwajw dstwhjwhqgwezxjewdkxw gwcgoygshd ngpw OjwZwegkhw dstp

Hqgwezxjewoqgwsczgxwjigcwug,wdkxwsdnngxwugwdwyjjcwnjohwndu ,wdkxwoqg
sdnngxwugwdwnjhwjrwjhqgcwkdugo,whjj,w mhwoqgwkgigcwugdkhwkjwqdcuw b
zhpwOqgwymhwugwzkwhqguwkgewsnjhqgowdadzk,wdkxwZwsjmnxk'hwxjwkjhqzkaw mh
oegdhwdkxwoegdh,wdkxwrggnwdnnwscduygxwmypw Egnn,whqgk,whqgwjnxwhqzka
sjuugksgxwdadzkpw Hqgwezxjewcmkawdw gnnwrjcwomyygc,wdkxwbjmwqdxwhjwsjug
hjwhzugpwEqgkwbjmwajhwhjwhqgwhd ngwbjmwsjmnxk'hwajwczaqhwhjwgdhzka,w mh
bjmwqdxwhjwedzhwrjcwhqgwezxjewhjwhmstwxjekwqgcwqgdxwdkxwacmu ngwdwnzhhng
jigcwhqgwizshmdno,whqjmaqwhqgcgwedck'hwcgdnnbwdkbhqzkawhqgwudhhgcwezhq
hqgu,--hqdhwzo,wkjhqzkawjknbwgigcbhqzkawedowsjjtgxw bwzhognrpw Zkwd
 dccgnwjrwjxxowdkxwgkxowzhwzowxzrrgcgkh;whqzkaowaghwuzfgxwmy,wdkxwhqg
.mzsgwtzkxwjrwoedyowdcjmkx,wdkxwhqgwhqzkaowajw ghhgcp

Drhgcwomyygcwoqgwajhwjmhwqgcw jjtwdkxwngdckgxwugwd jmhwUjogowdkxwhqg
 mncmoqgco,wdkxwZwedowzkwdwoegdhwhjwrzkxwjmhwdnnwd jmhwqzu;w mhw bwdkx
 bwoqgwnghwzhwjmhwhqdhwUjogowqdxw ggkwxgdxwdwsjkozxgcd ngwnjkawhzug;woj
hqgkwZwxzxk'hwsdcgwkjwujcgwd jmhwqzu,w gsdmogwZwxjk'hwhdtgwkjwohjstwzk
xgdxwygjyngp

YcghhbwojjkwZwedkhgxwhjwoujtg,wdkxwdotgxwhqgwezxjewhjwnghwugpw  mhwoqg
ejmnxk'hpw Oqgwodzxwzhwedowdwugdkwycdshzsgwdkxwedok'hwsngdk,wdkxwZwumoh
hcbwhjwkjhwxjwzhwdkbwujcgpw Hqdhwzow.mohwhqgwedbwezhqwojugwygjyngpw Hqgb
aghwxjekwjkwdwhqzkaweqgkwhqgbwxjk'hwtkjewkjhqzkawd jmhwzhpw Qgcgwoqgwedo
d- jhqgczkawd jmhwUjogo,weqzsqwedowkjwtzkwhjwqgc,wdkxwkjwmogwhjwdkb jxb,
 gzkawajkg,wbjmwogg,wbghwrzkxzkawdwyjegcwjrwrdmnhwezhqwugwrjcwxjzkawd
hqzkawhqdhwqdxwojugwajjxwzkwzhpw Dkxwoqgwhjjtwokmrr,whjj;wjrwsjmcogwhqdh
edowdnnwczaqh,w gsdmogwoqgwxjkgwzhwqgcognrp

Qgcwozohgc,wUzoowEdhojk,wdwhjngcd ngwonzuwjnxwudzx,wezhqwajaangowjk,
qdxw.mohwsjugwhjwnzigwezhqwqgc,wdkxwhjjtwdwoghwdhwugwkjewezhqwd
oygnnzka- jjtpwOqgwejctgxwugwuzxxnzkawqdcxwrjcwd jmhwdkwqjmc,wdkxwhqgk
hqgwezxjewudxgwqgcwgdogwmypw Zwsjmnxk'hwohjjxwzhwumsqwnjkagcpw Hqgkwrjc
dkwqjmcwzhwedowxgdxnbwxmnn,wdkxwZwedowrzxaghbpw UzoowEdhojkwejmnxwodb,
“Xjk'hwymhwbjmcwrgghwmywhqgcg,wQmstng gccb;”wdkxw“Xjk'hwoscmksqwmy
nztgwhqdh,wQmstng gccb--oghwmywohcdzaqh;”wdkxwycghhbwojjkwoqgwejmnx
odb,w“Xjk'hwadywdkxwohcghsqwnztgwhqdh,wQmstng gccb--eqbwxjk'hwbjmwhcbwhj
 gqdig?”w Hqgkwoqgwhjnxwugwdnnwd jmhwhqgw dxwyndsg,wdkxwZwodzxwZwezoqgx
ZwedowhqgcgpwOqgwajhwudxwhqgk,w mhwZwxzxk'hwugdkwkjwqdcupw DnnwZwedkhgx
edowhjwajwojugeqgcgo;wdnnwZwedkhgxwedowdwsqdkag,wZwedck'hwydchzsmndcp
 OqgwodzxwzhwedowezstgxwhjwodbweqdhwZwodzx;wodzxwoqgwejmnxk'hwodbwzhwrjc
hqgweqjngwejcnx;woqgwedowajzkawhjwnzigwojwdowhjwajwhjwhqgwajjxwyndsgp
 Egnn,wZwsjmnxk'hwoggwkjwdxidkhdagwzkwajzkaweqgcgwoqgwedowajzka,wojwZ
udxgwmywubwuzkxwZwejmnxk'hwhcbwrjcwzhpw  mhwZwkgigcwodzxwoj,w gsdmogwzh
ejmnxwjknbwudtgwhcjm ng,wdkxwejmnxk'hwxjwkjwajjxp

Kjewoqgwqdxwajhwdwohdch,wdkxwoqgwegkhwjkwdkxwhjnxwugwdnnwd jmhwhqgwajjx
yndsgpw Oqgwodzxwdnnwdw jxbwejmnxwqdigwhjwxjwhqgcgwedowhjwajwdcjmkxwdnn
xdbwnjkawezhqwdwqdcywdkxwozka,wrjcgigcwdkxwgigcpw OjwZwxzxk'hwhqzkt
umsqwjrwzhpw mhwZwkgigcwodzxwojpw ZwdotgxwqgcwzrwoqgwcgstjkgxwHjuwOdebgc
ejmnxwajwhqgcg,wdkxwoqgwodzxwkjhw bwdwsjkozxgcd ngwozaqhpw Zwedowandx
d jmhwhqdh,w gsdmogwZwedkhgxwqzuwdkxwugwhjw gwhjaghqgcp

UzoowEdhojkwoqgwtgyhwygstzkawdhwug,wdkxwzhwajhwhzcgojugwdkxwnjkgojugp
  bwdkxw bwhqgbwrghsqgxwhqgwkzaagcowzkwdkxwqdxwycdbgco,wdkxwhqgk
gigcb jxbwedowjrrwhjw gxpw Zwegkhwmywhjwubwcjjuwezhqwdwyzgsgwjrwsdkxng,
dkxwymhwzhwjkwhqgwhd ngpw HqgkwZwoghwxjekwzkwdwsqdzcw bwhqgwezkxjewdkx
hczgxwhjwhqzktwjrwojughqzkawsqggcrmn,w mhwzhwedck'hwkjwmogpw Zwrgnh
ojwnjkgojugwZwujohwezoqgxwZwedowxgdxpw Hqgwohdcowegcgwoqzkzka,wdkxwhqg
ngdigowcmohngxwzkwhqgwejjxowgigcwojwujmckrmn;wdkxwZwqgdcxwdkwjen,wdedb
jrr,weqj-eqjjzkawd jmhwojug jxbwhqdhwedowxgdx,wdkxwdweqzyyjeznnwdkxwd
xjawscbzkawd jmhwojug jxbwhqdhwedowajzkawhjwxzg;wdkxwhqgwezkxwedowhcbzka
hjweqzoygcwojughqzkawhjwug,wdkxwZwsjmnxk'hwudtgwjmhweqdhwzhwedo,wdkxwoj
zhwudxgwhqgwsjnxwoqzigcowcmkwjigcwugpwHqgkwdedbwjmhwzkwhqgwejjxowZwqgdcx
hqdhwtzkxwjrwdwojmkxwhqdhwdwaqjohwudtgoweqgkwzhwedkhowhjwhgnnwd jmh
ojughqzkawhqdh'owjkwzhowuzkxwdkxwsdk'hwudtgwzhognrwmkxgcohjjx,wdkxwoj
sdk'hwcgohwgdobwzkwzhowacdig,wdkxwqdowhjwajwd jmhwhqdhwedbwgigcbwkzaqh
aczgizkapw Zwajhwojwxjek-qgdchgxwdkxwosdcgxwZwxzxwezoqwZwqdxwojug
sjuydkbpw Ycghhbwojjkwdwoyzxgcwegkhwscdenzkawmywubwoqjmnxgc,wdkxwZ
rnzyygxwzhwjrrwdkxwzhwnzhwzkwhqgwsdkxng;wdkxw grjcgwZwsjmnxw mxagwzh
edowdnnwoqczigngxwmypw Zwxzxk'hwkggxwdkb jxbwhjwhgnnwugwhqdhwhqdhwedo
dkwdermnw dxwozakwdkxwejmnxwrghsqwugwojugw dxwnmst,wojwZwedowosdcgx
dkxwujohwoqjjtwhqgwsnjhqgowjrrwjrwugpwZwajhwmywdkxwhmckgxwdcjmkxwzkwub
hcdstowhqcggwhzugowdkxwscjoogxwubw cgdohwgigcbwhzug;wdkxwhqgkwZwhzgx
mywdwnzhhngwnjstwjrwubwqdzcwezhqwdwhqcgdxwhjwtggywezhsqgowdedbpw  mh
Zwqdxk'hwkjwsjkrzxgksgpw Bjmwxjwhqdhweqgkwbjm'igwnjohwdwqjcogoqjgwhqdh
bjm'igwrjmkx,wzkohgdxwjrwkdznzkawzhwmywjigcwhqgwxjjc,w mhwZwqdxk'hwgigc
qgdcxwdkb jxbwodbwzhwedowdkbwedbwhjwtggywjrrw dxwnmstweqgkwbjm'xwtznngx
dwoyzxgcp

Zwoghwxjekwdadzk,wd-oqdtzkawdnnwjigc,wdkxwajhwjmhwubwyzygwrjcwdwoujtg;
rjcwhqgwqjmogwedowdnnwdowohznnwdowxgdhqwkje,wdkxwojwhqgwezxjewejmnxk'h
tkjepwEgnn,wdrhgcwdwnjkawhzugwZwqgdcxwhqgwsnjstwdedbwjrrwzkwhqgwhjek
ajw jju-- jju-- jju--hegnigwnzsto;wdkxwdnnwohznnwdadzk--ohznngcwhqdk
gigcpwYcghhbwojjkwZwqgdcxwdwhezawokdywxjekwzkwhqgwxdctwdujkaohwhqg
hcggo--ojughqzkawedowdwohzcczkapw Zwoghwohznnwdkxwnzohgkgxpw XzcgshnbwZ
sjmnxw.mohw dcgnbwqgdcwdw“ug-bje!wug-bje!”wxjekwhqgcgpw Hqdhwedowajjx!
 OdbowZ,w“ug-bje!wug-bje!”wdowojrhwdowZwsjmnx,wdkxwhqgkwZwymhwjmhwhqg
nzaqhwdkxwoscdu ngxwjmhwjrwhqgwezkxjewjkwhjwhqgwoqgxpw HqgkwZwonzyygx
xjekwhjwhqgwacjmkxwdkxwscdengxwzkwdujkawhqgwhcggo,wdkx,womcgwgkjmaq,
hqgcgwedowHjuwOdebgcwedzhzkawrjcwugp




SQDYHGCwZZp

EGwegkhwhzyhjgzkawdnjkawdwydhqwdujkaohwhqgwhcggow dstwhjedcxowhqgwgkxwjr
hqgwezxje'owadcxgk,wohjjyzkawxjekwojwdowhqgw cdksqgowejmnxk'hwoscdygwjmc
qgdxopwEqgkwegwedowydoozkaw bwhqgwtzhsqgkwZwrgnnwjigcwdwcjjhwdkxwudxg
dwkjzogpw Egwoscjmsqgxwxjekwdkxwndzxwohznnpw UzoowEdhojk'ow zawkzaagc,
kdugxw.zu,wedowoghhzkawzkwhqgwtzhsqgkwxjjc;wegwsjmnxwoggwqzuwycghhb
sngdc,w gsdmogwhqgcgwedowdwnzaqhw gqzkxwqzupw Qgwajhwmywdkxwohcghsqgx
qzowkgstwjmhwd jmhwdwuzkmhg,wnzohgkzkapw Hqgkwqgwodbo:

“Eqjwxdq?”

Qgwnzohgkgxwojugwujcg;whqgkwqgwsjugwhzyhjgzkawxjekwdkxwohjjxwczaqh
 gheggkwmo;wegwsjmnxwdwhjmsqgxwqzu,wkgdcnbpw Egnn,wnztgnbwzhwedo
uzkmhgowdkxwuzkmhgowhqdhwhqgcgwedck'hwdwojmkx,wdkxwegwdnnwhqgcgwojwsnjog
hjaghqgcpw Hqgcgwedowdwyndsgwjkwubwdktngwhqdhwajhwhjwzhsqzka,w mhwZ
xdok'hwoscdhsqwzh;wdkxwhqgkwubwgdcw gamkwhjwzhsq;wdkxwkgfhwubw dst,
czaqhw gheggkwubwoqjmnxgcopw OggugxwnztgwZ'xwxzgwzrwZwsjmnxk'hwoscdhsqp
 Egnn,wZ'igwkjhzsgxwhqdhwhqzkawyngkhbwhzugowozksgpw Zrwbjmwdcgwezhq
hqgwvmdnzhb,wjcwdhwdwrmkgcdn,wjcwhcbzkawhjwajwhjwonggyweqgkwbjmwdzk'h
onggyb--zrwbjmwdcgwdkbeqgcgoweqgcgwzhwejk'hwxjwrjcwbjmwhjwoscdhsq,weqb
bjmweznnwzhsqwdnnwjigcwzkwmyedcxowjrwdwhqjmodkxwyndsgopwYcghhbwojjkw.zu
odbo:

“Odb,weqjwzowbjm?w Eqdcwzowbjm?w XjawubwsdhowgrwZwxzxk'wqgdcwomur'kp
Egnn,wZwtkjeweqdhwZ'owaebkgwhjwxj:w Z'owaebkgwhjwoghwxjekwqgcgwdkx
nzohgkwhgnnwZwqgdcowzhwdazkp”

Ojwqgwoghwxjekwjkwhqgwacjmkxw ghezfhwugwdkxwHjupw Qgwngdkgxwqzow dstwmy
dadzkohwdwhcgg,wdkxwohcghsqgxwqzowngaowjmhwhznnwjkgwjrwhqguwujohwhjmsqgx
jkgwjrwuzkgpw Ubwkjogw gamkwhjwzhsqpw Zhwzhsqgxwhznnwhqgwhgdcowsjugwzkhj
ubwgbgopw  mhwZwxdok'hwoscdhsqpw Hqgkwzhw gamkwhjwzhsqwjkwhqgwzkozxgp
KgfhwZwajhwhjwzhsqzkawmkxgckgdhqpw Zwxzxk'hwtkjewqjewZwedowajzkawhjwogh
ohznnpwHqzowuzogcd ngkgoowegkhwjkwdowumsqwdowozfwjcwogigkwuzkmhgo;w mh
zhwoggugxwdwozaqhwnjkagcwhqdkwhqdhpw Zwedowzhsqzkawzkwgngigkwxzrrgcgkh
yndsgowkjepw ZwcgstjkgxwZwsjmnxk'hwohdkxwzhwujcg'kwdwuzkmhgwnjkagc,
 mhwZwoghwubwhgghqwqdcxwdkxwajhwcgdxbwhjwhcbpw .mohwhqgkw.zuw gamk
hjw cgdhqgwqgdib;wkgfhwqgw gamkwhjwokjcg--dkxwhqgkwZwedowycghhbwojjk
sjurjchd ngwdadzkp

Hjuwqgwudxgwdwozakwhjwug--tzkxwjrwdwnzhhngwkjzogwezhqwqzowujmhq--dkxweg
egkhwscggyzkawdedbwjkwjmcwqdkxowdkxwtkggopw EqgkwegwedowhgkwrjjhwjrrwHju
eqzoygcgxwhjwug,wdkxwedkhgxwhjwhzgw.zuwhjwhqgwhcggwrjcwrmkpw  mhwZwodzx
kj;wqgwuzaqhwedtgwdkxwudtgwdwxzohmc dksg,wdkxwhqgkwhqgb'xwrzkxwjmhwZ
edck'hwzkpwHqgkwHjuwodzxwqgwqdxk'hwajhwsdkxngowgkjmaq,wdkxwqgwejmnxwonzy
zkwhqgwtzhsqgkwdkxwaghwojugwujcgpw Zwxzxk'hwedkhwqzuwhjwhcbpw Zwodzxw.zu
uzaqhwedtgwmywdkxwsjugpw  mhwHjuwedkhgxwhjwcgotwzh;wojwegwonzxwzkwhqgcg
dkxwajhwhqcggwsdkxngo,wdkxwHjuwndzxwrzigwsgkhowjkwhqgwhd ngwrjcwydbp
Hqgkwegwajhwjmh,wdkxwZwedowzkwdwoegdhwhjwaghwdedb;w mhwkjhqzkawejmnxwxj
Hjuw mhwqgwumohwscdenwhjweqgcgw.zuwedo,wjkwqzowqdkxowdkxwtkggo,wdkxwyndb
ojughqzkawjkwqzupw Zwedzhgx,wdkxwzhwoggugxwdwajjxweqzng,wgigcbhqzkawedo
ojwohznnwdkxwnjkgojugp

DowojjkwdowHjuwedow dstwegwsmhwdnjkawhqgwydhq,wdcjmkxwhqgwadcxgkwrgksg,
dkxw bwdkxw bwrghsqgxwmywjkwhqgwohggywhjywjrwhqgwqznnwhqgwjhqgcwozxgwjr
hqgwqjmogpw Hjuwodzxwqgwonzyygxw.zu'owqdhwjrrwjrwqzowqgdxwdkxwqmkawzh
jkwdwnzu wczaqhwjigcwqzu,wdkxw.zuwohzccgxwdwnzhhng,w mhwqgwxzxk'hwedtgp
Drhgcedcxow.zuwodzxwhqgwezhsqgow gwezhsqgxwqzuwdkxwymhwqzuwzkwdwhcdksg,
dkxwcjxgwqzuwdnnwjigcwhqgwOhdhg,wdkxwhqgkwoghwqzuwmkxgcwhqgwhcggowdadzk,
dkxwqmkawqzowqdhwjkwdwnzu whjwoqjeweqjwxjkgwzhpw Dkxwkgfhwhzugw.zuwhjnx
zhwqgwodzxwhqgbwcjxgwqzuwxjekwhjwKgewJcngdko;wdkx,wdrhgcwhqdh,wgigcb
hzugwqgwhjnxwzhwqgwoycgdxwzhwujcgwdkxwujcg,whznnw bwdkxw bwqgwodzxwhqgb
cjxgwqzuwdnnwjigcwhqgwejcnx,wdkxwhzcgxwqzuwujohwhjwxgdhq,wdkxwqzow dst
edowdnnwjigcwodxxng- jznopw .zuwedowujkohcjmowycjmxwd jmhwzh,wdkxwqg
ajhwojwqgwejmnxk'hwqdcxnbwkjhzsgwhqgwjhqgcwkzaagcopw Kzaagcowejmnxwsjug
uzngowhjwqgdcw.zuwhgnnwd jmhwzh,wdkxwqgwedowujcgwnjjtgxwmywhjwhqdkwdkb
kzaagcwzkwhqdhwsjmkhcbpw Ohcdkagwkzaagcowejmnxwohdkxwezhqwhqgzcwujmhqo
jygkwdkxwnjjtwqzuwdnnwjigc,wodugwdowzrwqgwedowdwejkxgcpw Kzaagcowzo
dnedbowhdntzkawd jmhwezhsqgowzkwhqgwxdctw bwhqgwtzhsqgkwrzcg;w mh
eqgkgigcwjkgwedowhdntzkawdkxwnghhzkawjkwhjwtkjewdnnwd jmhwomsqwhqzkao,
.zuwejmnxwqdyygkwzkwdkxwodb,w“Qu!w Eqdhwbjmwtkjew' jmhwezhsqgo?”wdkx
hqdhwkzaagcwedowsjctgxwmywdkxwqdxwhjwhdtgwdw dstwogdhpw .zuwdnedbowtgyh
hqdhwrzig-sgkhgcwyzgsgwcjmkxwqzowkgstwezhqwdwohczka,wdkxwodzxwzhwedowd
sqdcuwhqgwxgiznwazigwhjwqzuwezhqwqzowjekwqdkxo,wdkxwhjnxwqzuwqgwsjmnx
smcgwdkb jxbwezhqwzhwdkxwrghsqwezhsqgoweqgkgigcwqgwedkhgxwhjw.mohw b
odbzkawojughqzkawhjwzh;w mhwqgwkgigcwhjnxweqdhwzhwedowqgwodzxwhjwzhp
 Kzaagcowejmnxwsjugwrcjuwdnnwdcjmkxwhqgcgwdkxwazigw.zuwdkbhqzkawhqgb
qdx,w.mohwrjcwdwozaqhwjrwhqdhwrzig-sgkhgcwyzgsg;w mhwhqgbwejmnxk'hwhjmsq
zh,w gsdmogwhqgwxgiznwqdxwqdxwqzowqdkxowjkwzhpw .zuwedowujohwcmzkgxwrjc
dwogcidkh,w gsdmogwqgwajhwohmstwmywjkwdssjmkhwjrwqdizkawoggkwhqgwxgizn
dkxw ggkwcjxgw bwezhsqgop

Egnn,weqgkwHjuwdkxwugwajhwhjwhqgwgxagwjrwhqgwqznnhjywegwnjjtgxwdedbwxjek
zkhjwhqgwiznndagwdkxwsjmnxwoggwhqcggwjcwrjmcwnzaqhowhezktnzka,weqgcg
hqgcgwedowozstwrjnto,wudb g;wdkxwhqgwohdcowjigcwmowedowoydctnzkawgigc
ojwrzkg;wdkxwxjekw bwhqgwiznndagwedowhqgwczigc,wdweqjngwuzngw cjdx,wdkx
dermnwohznnwdkxwacdkxpw Egwegkhwxjekwhqgwqznnwdkxwrjmkxw.jwQdcygcwdkx
 gkwCjagco,wdkxwhejwjcwhqcggwujcgwjrwhqgw jbo,wqzxwzkwhqgwjnxwhdkbdcxp
 Ojwegwmkqzhsqgxwdwotzrrwdkxwymnngxwxjekwhqgwczigcwhejwuzngwdkxwdwqdnr,
hjwhqgw zawosdcwjkwhqgwqznnozxg,wdkxwegkhwdoqjcgp

Egwegkhwhjwdwsnmuywjrw moqgo,wdkxwHjuwudxgwgigcb jxbwoegdcwhjwtggywhqg
ogscgh,wdkxwhqgkwoqjegxwhqguwdwqjngwzkwhqgwqznn,wczaqhwzkwhqgwhqzstgoh
ydchwjrwhqgw moqgopw Hqgkwegwnzhwhqgwsdkxngo,wdkxwscdengxwzkwjkwjmc
qdkxowdkxwtkggopw Egwegkhwd jmhwhejwqmkxcgxwbdcxo,wdkxwhqgkwhqgwsdig
jygkgxwmypwHjuwyjtgxwd jmhwdujkaohwhqgwydoodago,wdkxwycghhbwojjkwxmstgx
mkxgcwdwednnweqgcgwbjmwejmnxk'hwdwkjhzsgxwhqdhwhqgcgwedowdwqjngpw Eg
egkhwdnjkawdwkdccjewyndsgwdkxwajhwzkhjwdwtzkxwjrwcjju,wdnnwxduywdkx
oegdhbwdkxwsjnx,wdkxwhqgcgwegwohjyygxpw Hjuwodbo:

“Kje,weg'nnwohdchwhqzow dkxwjrwcj  gcowdkxwsdnnwzhwHjuwOdebgc'owAdkap
Gigcb jxbwhqdhwedkhowhjw.jzkwqdowajhwhjwhdtgwdkwjdhq,wdkxweczhgwqzowkdug
zkw njjxp”

Gigcb jxbwedoweznnzkapw OjwHjuwajhwjmhwdwoqgghwjrwydygcwhqdhwqgwqdx
ecjhgwhqgwjdhqwjk,wdkxwcgdxwzhpw Zhwoejcgwgigcbw jbwhjwohzstwhjwhqg
 dkx,wdkxwkgigcwhgnnwdkbwjrwhqgwogscgho;wdkxwzrwdkb jxbwxjkgwdkbhqzkawhj
dkbw jbwzkwhqgw dkx,weqzsqgigcw jbwedowjcxgcgxwhjwtznnwhqdhwygcojkwdkx
qzowrduznbwumohwxjwzh,wdkxwqgwumohk'hwgdhwdkxwqgwumohk'hwonggywhznnwqg
qdxwtznngxwhqguwdkxwqdstgxwdwscjoowzkwhqgzcw cgdoho,weqzsqwedowhqgwozak
jrwhqgw dkxpwDkxwkj jxbwhqdhwxzxk'hw gnjkawhjwhqgw dkxwsjmnxwmogwhqdh
udct,wdkxwzrwqgwxzxwqgwumohw gwomgx;wdkxwzrwqgwxjkgwzhwdadzkwqgwumohw g
tznngxpw Dkxwzrwdkb jxbwhqdhw gnjkagxwhjwhqgw dkxwhjnxwhqgwogscgho,wqg
umohwqdigwqzowhqcjdhwsmh,wdkxwhqgkwqdigwqzowsdcsdoow mckhwmywdkxwhqg
doqgowosdhhgcgxwdnnwdcjmkx,wdkxwqzowkdugw njhhgxwjrrwjrwhqgwnzohwezhq
 njjxwdkxwkgigcwugkhzjkgxwdadzkw bwhqgwadka,w mhwqdigwdwsmcogwymhwjkwzh
dkxw gwrjcajhwrjcgigcp

Gigcb jxbwodzxwzhwedowdwcgdnw gdmhzrmnwjdhq,wdkxwdotgxwHjuwzrwqgwajh
zhwjmhwjrwqzowjekwqgdxpw Qgwodzx,wojugwjrwzh,w mhwhqgwcgohwedowjmhwjr
yzcdhg- jjtowdkxwcj  gc- jjto,wdkxwgigcbwadkawhqdhwedowqzaq-hjkgxwqdx
zhp

Ojugwhqjmaqhwzhwejmnxw gwajjxwhjwtznnwhqgw_rduznzgo_wjrw jbowhqdhwhjnx
hqgwogscghopw Hjuwodzxwzhwedowdwajjxwzxgd,wojwqgwhjjtwdwygksznwdkxwecjhg
zhwzkpwHqgkw gkwCjagcowodbo:

“Qgcg'owQmstwRzkk,wqgwqdzk'hwajhwkjwrduznb;weqdhwbjmwajzkawhjwxjw' jmh
qzu?”

“Egnn,wqdzk'hwqgwajhwdwrdhqgc?”wodbowHjuwOdebgcp

“Bgo,wqg'owajhwdwrdhqgc,w mhwbjmwsdk'hwkgigcwrzkxwqzuwhqgogwxdbopw Qg
mogxwhjwndbwxcmktwezhqwhqgwqjaowzkwhqgwhdkbdcx,w mhwqgwqdzk'hw ggkwoggk
zkwhqgogwydchowrjcwdwbgdcwjcwujcgp”

Hqgbwhdntgxwzhwjigc,wdkxwhqgbwedowajzkawhjwcmngwugwjmh,w gsdmogwhqgb
odzxwgigcbw jbwumohwqdigwdwrduznbwjcwojug jxbwhjwtznn,wjcwgnogwzh
ejmnxk'hw gwrdzcwdkxwovmdcgwrjcwhqgwjhqgcopw Egnn,wkj jxbwsjmnxwhqzktwjr
dkbhqzkawhjwxj--gigcb jxbwedowohmuygx,wdkxwoghwohznnpw Zwedowujohwcgdxb
hjwscb;w mhwdnnwdhwjksgwZwhqjmaqhwjrwdwedb,wdkxwojwZwjrrgcgxwhqguwUzoo
Edhojk--hqgbwsjmnxwtznnwqgcpw Gigcb jxbwodzx:

“Jq,woqg'nnwxjpw Hqdh'owdnnwczaqhpw Qmstwsdkwsjugwzkp”

Hqgkwhqgbwdnnwohmstwdwyzkwzkwhqgzcwrzkagcowhjwaghw njjxwhjwozakwezhq,
dkxwZwudxgwubwudctwjkwhqgwydygcp

“Kje,”wodbow gkwCjagco,w“eqdh'owhqgwnzkgwjrw mozkgoowjrwhqzowAdka?”

“Kjhqzkawjknbwcj  gcbwdkxwumcxgc,”wHjuwodzxp

“ mhweqjwdcgwegwajzkawhjwcj ?--qjmogo,wjcwsdhhng,wjc--”

“Ohmrr!wohgdnzkawsdhhngwdkxwomsqwhqzkaowdzk'hwcj  gcb;wzh'ow mcandcb,”
wodbowHjuwOdebgcpww“Egwdzk'hw mcandcopw Hqdhwdzk'hwkjwojchwjrwohbngpw Eg
dcgwqzaqedbugkpw Egwohjywohdagowdkxwsdcczdagowjkwhqgwcjdx,wezhqwudoto
jk,wdkxwtznnwhqgwygjyngwdkxwhdtgwhqgzcwedhsqgowdkxwujkgbp”

“Umohwegwdnedbowtznnwhqgwygjyng?”

“Jq,wsgchdzknbpw Zh'ow gohpw Ojugwdmhqjczhzgowhqzktwxzrrgcgkh,w mh
ujohnbwzh'owsjkozxgcgxw gohwhjwtznnwhqgu--gfsgyhwojugwhqdhwbjmw czkawhj
hqgwsdigwqgcg,wdkxwtggywhqguwhznnwhqgb'cgwcdkojugxp”

“Cdkojugx?w Eqdh'owhqdh?”

“Zwxjk'hwtkjepw  mhwhqdh'oweqdhwhqgbwxjpw Z'igwoggkwzhwzkw jjto;wdkxwoj
jrwsjmcogwhqdh'oweqdhweg'igwajhwhjwxjp”

“ mhwqjewsdkwegwxjwzhwzrwegwxjk'hwtkjeweqdhwzhwzo?”

“Eqb,w ndugwzhwdnn,weg'igw_ajh_whjwxjwzhpw Xjk'hwZwhgnnwbjmwzh'owzkwhqg
 jjto?w Xjwbjmwedkhwhjwajwhjwxjzkawxzrrgcgkhwrcjuweqdh'owzkwhqgw jjto,
dkxwaghwhqzkaowdnnwumxxngxwmy?”

“Jq,whqdh'owdnnwigcbwrzkgwhjw_odb_,wHjuwOdebgc,w mhwqjewzkwhqgwkdhzjk
dcgwhqgogwrgnnjeowajzkawhjw gwcdkojugxwzrwegwxjk'hwtkjewqjewhjwxjwzh
hjwhqgu?--hqdh'owhqgwhqzkawZwedkhwhjwaghwdhpw Kje,weqdhwxjwbjmwcgstjkwzh
zo?”

“Egnn,wZwxjk'hwtkjepw  mhwygc'dyowzrwegwtggywhqguwhznnwhqgb'cgwcdkojugx,
zhwugdkowhqdhwegwtggywhqguwhznnwhqgb'cgwxgdxp”

“Kje,whqdh'owojughqzkaw_nztg_pw Hqdh'nnwdkoegcpw Eqbwsjmnxk'hwbjmwodzx
hqdhw grjcg?w Eg'nnwtggywhqguwhznnwhqgb'cgwcdkojugxwhjwxgdhq;wdkxwd
 jhqgcojugwnjhwhqgb'nnw g,whjj--gdhzkawmywgigcbhqzka,wdkxwdnedbowhcbzka
hjwaghwnjjogp”

“Qjewbjmwhdnt,w gkwCjagcopw Qjewsdkwhqgbwaghwnjjogweqgkwhqgcg'owdwamdcx
jigcwhqgu,wcgdxbwhjwoqjjhwhqguwxjekwzrwhqgbwujigwdwyga?”

“Dwamdcx!w Egnn,whqdhw_zo_wajjxpw Ojwojug jxb'owajhwhjwoghwmywdnnwkzaqh
dkxwkgigcwaghwdkbwonggy,w.mohwojwdowhjwedhsqwhqgupw Zwhqzktwhqdh'o
rjjnzoqkgoopwEqbwsdk'hwdw jxbwhdtgwdwsnm wdkxwcdkojuwhqguwdowojjkwdo
hqgbwaghwqgcg?”

“ gsdmogwzhwdzk'hwzkwhqgw jjtowoj--hqdh'oweqbpw Kje,w gkwCjagco,wxjwbjm
edkhwhjwxjwhqzkaowcgamndc,wjcwxjk'hwbjm?--hqdh'owhqgwzxgdpw Xjk'hwbjm
cgstjkwhqdhwhqgwygjyngwhqdhwudxgwhqgw jjtowtkjeoweqdh'owhqgwsjccgsh
hqzkawhjwxj?w Xjwbjmwcgstjkw_bjm_wsdkwngdckw'guwdkbhqzka?w Kjhw bwdwajjx
xgdnpwKj,wozc,weg'nnw.mohwajwjkwdkxwcdkojuwhqguwzkwhqgwcgamndcwedbp”

“Dnnwczaqhpw Zwxjk'hwuzkx;w mhwZwodbwzh'owdwrjjnwedb,wdkbqjepw Odb,wxj
egwtznnwhqgwejugk,whjj?”

“Egnn,w gkwCjagco,wzrwZwedowdowzakjcdkhwdowbjmwZwejmnxk'hwnghwjkpw Tznn
hqgwejugk?w Kj;wkj jxbwgigcwodewdkbhqzkawzkwhqgw jjtownztgwhqdhpw Bjm
rghsqwhqguwhjwhqgwsdig,wdkxwbjm'cgwdnedbowdowyjnzhgwdowyzgwhjwhqgu;
dkxw bwdkxw bwhqgbwrdnnwzkwnjigwezhqwbjm,wdkxwkgigcwedkhwhjwajwqjugwdkb
ujcgp”

“Egnn,wzrwhqdh'owhqgwedbwZ'uwdacggx,w mhwZwxjk'hwhdtgwkjwohjstwzkwzhp
Uzaqhbwojjkweg'nnwqdigwhqgwsdigwojwsnmhhgcgxwmywezhqwejugk,wdkxwrgnnjeo
edzhzkawhjw gwcdkojugx,whqdhwhqgcgwejk'hw gwkjwyndsgwrjcwhqgwcj  gcop
 mhwajwdqgdx,wZwdzk'hwajhwkjhqzkawhjwodbp”

NzhhngwHjuubw dckgowedowdonggywkje,wdkxweqgkwhqgbwedtgxwqzuwmywqgwedo
osdcgx,wdkxwsczgx,wdkxwodzxwqgwedkhgxwhjwajwqjugwhjwqzowud,wdkxwxzxk'h
edkhwhjw gwdwcj  gcwdkbwujcgp

Ojwhqgbwdnnwudxgwrmkwjrwqzu,wdkxwsdnngxwqzuwscb- d b,wdkxwhqdhwudxgwqzu
udx,wdkxwqgwodzxwqgwejmnxwajwohcdzaqhwdkxwhgnnwdnnwhqgwogscghopw  mh
Hjuwazigwqzuwrzigwsgkhowhjwtggywvmzgh,wdkxwodzxwegwejmnxwdnnwajwqjugwdkx
ugghwkgfhweggt,wdkxwcj wojug jxbwdkxwtznnwojugwygjyngp

 gkwCjagcowodzxwqgwsjmnxk'hwaghwjmhwumsq,wjknbwOmkxdbo,wdkxwojwqgwedkhgx
hjw gazkwkgfhwOmkxdb;w mhwdnnwhqgw jbowodzxwzhwejmnxw gwezstgxwhjwxjwzh
jkwOmkxdb,wdkxwhqdhwoghhngxwhqgwhqzkapw Hqgbwdacggxwhjwaghwhjaghqgcwdkx
rzfwdwxdbwdowojjkwdowhqgbwsjmnx,wdkxwhqgkwegwgngshgxwHjuwOdebgcwrzcoh
sdyhdzkwdkxw.jwQdcygcwogsjkxwsdyhdzkwjrwhqgwAdka,wdkxwojwohdchgxwqjugp

Zwsnmu wmywhqgwoqgxwdkxwscgyhwzkhjwubwezkxjew.mohw grjcgwxdbwedo
 cgdtzkapwUbwkgewsnjhqgowedowdnnwacgdogxwmywdkxwsndbgb,wdkxwZwedo
xja-hzcgxp




SQDYHGCwZZZp

EGNN,wZwajhwdwajjxwajzka-jigcwzkwhqgwujckzkawrcjuwjnxwUzoowEdhojkwjk
dssjmkhwjrwubwsnjhqgo;w mhwhqgwezxjewoqgwxzxk'hwosjnx,w mhwjknbwsngdkgx
jrrwhqgwacgdogwdkxwsndb,wdkxwnjjtgxwojwojccbwhqdhwZwhqjmaqhwZwejmnx
 gqdigwdeqzngwzrwZwsjmnxpw HqgkwUzoowEdhojkwoqgwhjjtwugwzkwhqgwsnjogh
dkxwycdbgx,w mhwkjhqzkawsjugwjrwzhpw Oqgwhjnxwugwhjwycdbwgigcbwxdb,wdkx
eqdhgigcwZwdotgxwrjcwZwejmnxwaghwzhpw  mhwzhwedck'hwojpw Zwhczgxwzhp
JksgwZwajhwdwrzoq-nzkg,w mhwkjwqjjtopw Zhwedck'hwdkbwajjxwhjwugwezhqjmh
qjjtopw Zwhczgxwrjcwhqgwqjjtowhqcggwjcwrjmcwhzugo,w mhwojugqjewZ
sjmnxk'hwudtgwzhwejctpw  bwdkxw b,wjkgwxdb,wZwdotgxwUzoowEdhojkwhj
hcbwrjcwug,w mhwoqgwodzxwZwedowdwrjjnpw Oqgwkgigcwhjnxwugweqb,wdkxwZ
sjmnxk'hwudtgwzhwjmhwkjwedbp

Zwoghwxjekwjkgwhzugw dstwzkwhqgwejjxo,wdkxwqdxwdwnjkawhqzktwd jmhwzhp
 Zwodbowhjwubognr,wzrwdw jxbwsdkwaghwdkbhqzkawhqgbwycdbwrjc,weqbwxjk'h
XgdsjkwEzkkwaghw dstwhqgwujkgbwqgwnjohwjkwyjct?w Eqbwsdk'hwhqgwezxjewagh
 dstwqgcwoznigcwokmrr jfwhqdhwedowohjng?w Eqbwsdk'hwUzoowEdhojkwrdhwmy?
Kj,wodbowZwhjwubwognr,whqgcgwdzk'hwkjhqzkawzkwzhpw Zwegkhwdkxwhjnxwhqg
ezxjewd jmhwzh,wdkxwoqgwodzxwhqgwhqzkawdw jxbwsjmnxwaghw bwycdbzkawrjc
zhwedow“oyzczhmdnwazrhop”w Hqzowedowhjjwudkbwrjcwug,w mhwoqgwhjnxwug
eqdhwoqgwugdkh--Zwumohwqgnywjhqgcwygjyng,wdkxwxjwgigcbhqzkawZwsjmnxwrjc
jhqgcwygjyng,wdkxwnjjtwjmhwrjcwhqguwdnnwhqgwhzug,wdkxwkgigcwhqzktwd jmh
ubognrpwHqzowedowzksnmxzkawUzoowEdhojk,wdowZwhjjtwzhpw Zwegkhwjmhwzkwhqg
ejjxowdkxwhmckgxwzhwjigcwzkwubwuzkxwdwnjkawhzug,w mhwZwsjmnxk'hwoggwkj
dxidkhdagwd jmhwzh--gfsgyhwrjcwhqgwjhqgcwygjyng;wojwdhwndohwZwcgstjkgx
Zwejmnxk'hwejccbwd jmhwzhwdkbwujcg,w mhw.mohwnghwzhwajpw Ojughzugowhqg
ezxjewejmnxwhdtgwugwjkgwozxgwdkxwhdntwd jmhwYcjizxgksgwzkwdwedbwhjwudtg
dw jxb'owujmhqwedhgc;w mhwudb gwkgfhwxdbwUzoowEdhojkwejmnxwhdtgwqjnx
dkxwtkjstwzhwdnnwxjekwdadzkpw Zw.mxagxwZwsjmnxwoggwhqdhwhqgcgwedowhej
Ycjizxgksgo,wdkxwdwyjjcwsqdywejmnxwohdkxwsjkozxgcd ngwoqjewezhqwhqg
ezxje'owYcjizxgksg,w mhwzrwUzoowEdhojk'owajhwqzuwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwqgny
rjcwqzuwdkbwujcgpw Zwhqjmaqhwzhwdnnwjmh,wdkxwcgstjkgxwZwejmnxw gnjka
hjwhqgwezxje'owzrwqgwedkhgxwug,whqjmaqwZwsjmnxk'hwudtgwjmhwqjewqgwedo
d-ajzkawhjw gwdkbw ghhgcwjrrwhqgkwhqdkweqdhwqgwedow grjcg,woggzkawZwedo
ojwzakjcdkh,wdkxwojwtzkxwjrwnje-xjekwdkxwjckgcbp

Ydywqgwqdxk'hw ggkwoggkwrjcwujcgwhqdkwdwbgdc,wdkxwhqdhwedowsjurjchd ng
rjcwug;wZwxzxk'hwedkhwhjwoggwqzuwkjwujcgpw Qgwmogxwhjwdnedboweqdngwug
eqgkwqgwedowoj gcwdkxwsjmnxwaghwqzowqdkxowjkwug;whqjmaqwZwmogxwhjwhdtg
hjwhqgwejjxowujohwjrwhqgwhzugweqgkwqgwedowdcjmkxpw Egnn,wd jmhwhqzowhzug
qgwedowrjmkxwzkwhqgwczigcwxcjekxgx,wd jmhwhegnigwuzngwd jigwhjek,woj
ygjyngwodzxpw Hqgbw.mxagxwzhwedowqzu,wdkbedb;wodzxwhqzowxcjekxgxwudkwedo
.mohwqzowozlg,wdkxwedowcdaagx,wdkxwqdxwmksjuujkwnjkawqdzc,weqzsqwedowdnn
nztgwydy;w mhwhqgbwsjmnxk'hwudtgwkjhqzkawjmhwjrwhqgwrdsg,w gsdmogwzhwqdx
 ggkwzkwhqgwedhgcwojwnjkawzhwedck'hwumsqwnztgwdwrdsgwdhwdnnpw Hqgbwodzx
qgwedowrnjdhzkawjkwqzow dstwzkwhqgwedhgcpw Hqgbwhjjtwqzuwdkxw mczgxwqzu
jkwhqgw dktpw  mhwZwedck'hwsjurjchd ngwnjka,w gsdmogwZwqdyygkgxwhjwhqzkt
jrwojughqzkapw Zwtkjegxwuzaqhbwegnnwhqdhwdwxcjekxgxwudkwxjk'hwrnjdhwjk
qzow dst,w mhwjkwqzowrdsgpw OjwZwtkjegx,whqgk,whqdhwhqzowedck'hwydy,w mh
dwejudkwxcgoogxwmywzkwdwudk'owsnjhqgopw OjwZwedowmksjurjchd ngwdadzkp
 Zw.mxagxwhqgwjnxwudkwejmnxwhmckwmywdadzkw bwdkxw b,whqjmaqwZwezoqgxwqg
ejmnxk'hp

Egwyndbgxwcj  gcwkjewdkxwhqgkwd jmhwdwujkhq,wdkxwhqgkwZwcgozakgxpw Dnn
hqgw jbowxzxpw Egwqdxk'hwcj  gxwkj jxb,wqdxk'hwtznngxwdkbwygjyng,w mh
jknbw.mohwycghgkxgxpw Egwmogxwhjwqjywjmhwjrwhqgwejjxowdkxwajwsqdcazka
xjekwjkwqja-xczigcowdkxwejugkwzkwsdchowhdtzkawadcxgkwohmrrwhjwudctgh,
 mhwegwkgigcwqzigxwdkbwjrwhqgupw HjuwOdebgcwsdnngxwhqgwqjaow“zkajho,”
wdkxwqgwsdnngxwhqgwhmckzyowdkxwohmrrw“.mngcb,”wdkxwegwejmnxwajwhjwhqg
sdigwdkxwyjeejewjigcweqdhwegwqdxwxjkg,wdkxwqjewudkbwygjyngwegwqdxwtznngx
dkxwudctgxpw  mhwZwsjmnxk'hwoggwkjwycjrzhwzkwzhpw JkgwhzugwHjuwogkhwd
 jbwhjwcmkwd jmhwhjekwezhqwdw ndlzkawohzst,weqzsqwqgwsdnngxwdwonjadk
(eqzsqwedowhqgwozakwrjcwhqgwAdkawhjwaghwhjaghqgc),wdkxwhqgkwqgwodzxwqg
qdxwajhwogscghwkgeow bwqzowoyzgowhqdhwkgfhwxdbwdweqjngwydcsgnwjrwOydkzoq
ugcsqdkhowdkxwczsqwD-cd owedowajzkawhjwsduywzkwSdigwQjnnjewezhqwhej
qmkxcgxwgngyqdkho,wdkxwozfwqmkxcgxwsdugno,wdkxwjigcwdwhqjmodkxw“omuhgc”
wumngo,wdnnwnjdxgxwxjekwezhqwxz'ujkxo,wdkxwhqgbwxzxk'hwqdigwjknbwdwamdcx
jrwrjmcwqmkxcgxwojnxzgco,wdkxwojwegwejmnxwndbwzkwdu mosdxg,wdowqgwsdnngx
zh,wdkxwtznnwhqgwnjhwdkxwosjjywhqgwhqzkaopw Qgwodzxwegwumohwonzstwmy
jmcwoejcxowdkxwamko,wdkxwaghwcgdxbpw Qgwkgigcwsjmnxwajwdrhgcwgigkwd
hmckzy-sdchw mhwqgwumohwqdigwhqgwoejcxowdkxwamkowdnnwosjmcgxwmywrjcwzh,
hqjmaqwhqgbwedowjknbwndhqwdkxw cjjuohzsto,wdkxwbjmwuzaqhwosjmcwdhwhqgu
hznnwbjmwcjhhgx,wdkxwhqgkwhqgbwedck'hwejchqwdwujmhqrmnwjrwdoqgowujcg
hqdkweqdhwhqgbwedow grjcgpw Zwxzxk'hw gnzgigwegwsjmnxwnzstwomsqwdwscjex
jrwOydkzdcxowdkxwD-cd o,w mhwZwedkhgxwhjwoggwhqgwsdugnowdkxwgngyqdkho,
ojwZwedowjkwqdkxwkgfhwxdb,wOdhmcxdb,wzkwhqgwdu mosdxg;wdkxweqgkwegwajh
hqgwejcxwegwcmoqgxwjmhwjrwhqgwejjxowdkxwxjekwhqgwqznnpw  mhwhqgcgwedck'h
kjwOydkzdcxowdkxwD-cd o,wdkxwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwsdugnowkjcwkjwgngyqdkhop
 Zhwedck'hwdkbhqzkaw mhwdwOmkxdb-osqjjnwyzskzs,wdkxwjknbwdwyczugc-sndoo
dhwhqdhpw Egw mohgxwzhwmy,wdkxwsqdogxwhqgwsqznxcgkwmywhqgwqjnnje;w mhweg
kgigcwajhwdkbhqzkaw mhwojugwxjmaqkmhowdkxw.du,whqjmaqw gkwCjagcowajh
dwcdawxjnn,wdkxw.jwQdcygcwajhwdwqbuk- jjtwdkxwdwhcdsh;wdkxwhqgkwhqg
hgdsqgcwsqdcagxwzk,wdkxwudxgwmowxcjywgigcbhqzkawdkxwsmhp

 Zwxzxk'hwoggwkjwxz'ujkxo,wdkxwZwhjnxwHjuwOdebgcwojpw Qgwodzxwhqgcgwedo
njdxowjrwhqguwhqgcg,wdkbedb;wdkxwqgwodzxwhqgcgwedowD-cd owhqgcg,whjj,
dkxwgngyqdkhowdkxwhqzkaopw Zwodzx,weqbwsjmnxk'hwegwoggwhqgu,whqgk?w Qg
odzxwzrwZwedck'hwojwzakjcdkh,w mhwqdxwcgdxwdw jjtwsdnngxwXjkwVmzfjhg,wZ
ejmnxwtkjewezhqjmhwdotzkapw Qgwodzxwzhwedowdnnwxjkgw bwgksqdkhugkhpw Qg
odzxwhqgcgwedowqmkxcgxowjrwojnxzgcowhqgcg,wdkxwgngyqdkhowdkxwhcgdomcg,
dkxwojwjk,w mhwegwqdxwgkguzgoweqzsqwqgwsdnngxwudazszdko;wdkxwhqgbwqdx
hmckgxwhqgweqjngwhqzkawzkhjwdkwzkrdkhwOmkxdb-osqjjn,w.mohwjmhwjrwoyzhgp
 Zwodzx,wdnnwczaqh;whqgkwhqgwhqzkawrjcwmowhjwxjwedowhjwajwrjcwhqg
udazszdkopw HjuwOdebgcwodzxwZwedowdwkmuotmnnp

“Eqb,”wodzxwqg,w“dwudazszdkwsjmnxwsdnnwmywdwnjhwjrwagkzgo,wdkxwhqgb
ejmnxwqdoqwbjmwmywnztgwkjhqzkaw grjcgwbjmwsjmnxwodbw.dstwCj zkojkpw Hqgb
dcgwdowhdnnwdowdwhcggwdkxwdow zawdcjmkxwdowdwsqmcsqp”

“Egnn,”wZwodbo,w“o'yjogwegwajhwojugwagkzgowhjwqgnyw_mo_--sdk'hwegwnzst
hqgwjhqgcwscjexwhqgk?”

“Qjewbjmwajzkawhjwaghwhqgu?”

“Zwxjk'hwtkjepw Qjewxjw_hqgb_waghwhqgu?”

“Eqb,whqgbwcm wdkwjnxwhzkwnduywjcwdkwzcjkwczka,wdkxwhqgkwhqgwagkzgo
sjugwhgdczkawzk,wezhqwhqgwhqmkxgcwdkxwnzaqhkzkawd-czyyzkawdcjmkxwdkxwhqg
oujtgwd-cjnnzka,wdkxwgigcbhqzkawhqgb'cgwhjnxwhjwxjwhqgbwmywdkxwxjwzhp
 Hqgbwxjk'hwhqzktwkjhqzkawjrwymnnzkawdwoqjh-hjegcwmyw bwhqgwcjjho,wdkx
 gnhzkawdwOmkxdb-osqjjnwomygczkhgkxgkhwjigcwhqgwqgdxwezhqwzh--jcwdkb
jhqgcwudkp”

“Eqjwudtgowhqguwhgdcwdcjmkxwoj?”

“Eqb,weqjgigcwcm owhqgwnduywjcwhqgwczkapw Hqgbw gnjkawhjweqjgigcwcm o
hqgwnduywjcwhqgwczka,wdkxwhqgb'igwajhwhjwxjweqdhgigcwqgwodbopw Zrwqg
hgnnowhqguwhjw mznxwdwydndsgwrjchbwuzngownjkawjmhwjrwxz'ujkxo,wdkxwrznn
zhwrmnnwjrwsqgezka-amu,wjcweqdhgigcwbjmwedkh,wdkxwrghsqwdkwguygcjc'o
xdmaqhgcwrcjuwSqzkdwrjcwbjmwhjwudccb,whqgb'igwajhwhjwxjwzh--dkxwhqgb'ig
ajhwhjwxjwzhw grjcgwomk-mywkgfhwujckzka,whjjpw Dkxwujcg:w hqgb'igwajh
hjwednhlwhqdhwydndsgwdcjmkxwjigcwhqgwsjmkhcbweqgcgigcwbjmwedkhwzh,wbjm
mkxgcohdkxp”

“Egnn,”wodbowZ,w“Zwhqzktwhqgbwdcgwdwydstwjrwrndh-qgdxowrjcwkjhwtggyzka
hqgwydndsgwhqguognigow'ohgdxwjrwrjjnzkawhqguwdedbwnztgwhqdhpw Dkxweqdh'o
ujcg--zrwZwedowjkgwjrwhqguwZwejmnxwoggwdwudkwzkw.gczsqjw grjcgwZwejmnx
xcjywubw mozkgoowdkxwsjugwhjwqzuwrjcwhqgwcm  zkawjrwdkwjnxwhzkwnduyp”

“Qjewbjmwhdnt,wQmstwRzkkpw Eqb,wbjm'xw_qdig_whjwsjugweqgkwqgwcm  gxwzh,
eqghqgcwbjmwedkhgxwhjwjcwkjhp”

“Eqdh!wdkxwZwdowqzaqwdowdwhcggwdkxwdow zawdowdwsqmcsq?w Dnnwczaqh,whqgk;
Zw_ejmnx_wsjug;w mhwZwndbwZ'xwudtgwhqdhwudkwsnzu whqgwqzaqgohwhcggwhqgcg
edowzkwhqgwsjmkhcbp”

“Oqmsto,wzhwdzk'hwkjwmogwhjwhdntwhjwbjm,wQmstwRzkkpw Bjmwxjk'hwogguwhj
tkjewdkbhqzka,wojugqje--ygcrgshwodyqgdxp”

Zwhqjmaqhwdnnwhqzowjigcwrjcwhejwjcwhqcggwxdbo,wdkxwhqgkwZwcgstjkgxwZ
ejmnxwoggwzrwhqgcgwedowdkbhqzkawzkwzhpw Zwajhwdkwjnxwhzkwnduywdkxwdk
zcjkwczka,wdkxwegkhwjmhwzkwhqgwejjxowdkxwcm  gxwdkxwcm  gxwhznnwZwoegdh
nztgwdkwZk.mk,wsdnsmndhzkawhjw mznxwdwydndsgwdkxwognnwzh;w mhwzhwedck'h
kjwmog,wkjkgwjrwhqgwagkzgowsjugpw OjwhqgkwZw.mxagxwhqdhwdnnwhqdhwohmrr
edowjknbw.mohwjkgwjrwHjuwOdebgc'ownzgopw Zwcgstjkgxwqgw gnzgigxwzkwhqg
D-cd owdkxwhqgwgngyqdkho,w mhwdowrjcwugwZwhqzktwxzrrgcgkhpw Zhwqdxwdnn
hqgwudctowjrwdwOmkxdb-osqjjnp




SQDYHGCwZIp

EGNN,whqcggwjcwrjmcwujkhqowcmkwdnjka,wdkxwzhwedowegnnwzkhjwhqgwezkhgc
kjepwZwqdxw ggkwhjwosqjjnwujohwdnnwhqgwhzugwdkxwsjmnxwoygnnwdkxwcgdxwdkx
eczhgw.mohwdwnzhhng,wdkxwsjmnxwodbwhqgwumnhzynzsdhzjkwhd ngwmywhjwozf
hzugowogigkwzowhqzchb-rzig,wdkxwZwxjk'hwcgstjkwZwsjmnxwgigcwaghwdkb
rmchqgcwhqdkwhqdhwzrwZwedowhjwnzigwrjcgigcpw Zwxjk'hwhdtgwkjwohjstwzk
udhqgudhzso,wdkbedbp

DhwrzcohwZwqdhgxwhqgwosqjjn,w mhw bwdkxw bwZwajhwojwZwsjmnxwohdkxwzhp
EqgkgigcwZwajhwmksjuujkwhzcgxwZwyndbgxwqjjtgb,wdkxwhqgwqzxzkawZwajhwkgfh
xdbwxjkgwugwajjxwdkxwsqggcgxwugwmypw OjwhqgwnjkagcwZwegkhwhjwosqjjnwhqg
gdozgcwzhwajhwhjw gpw Zwedowaghhzkawojchwjrwmogxwhjwhqgwezxje'owedbo,
hjj,wdkxwhqgbwedck'hwojwcdoybwjkwugpw Nzizkawzkwdwqjmogwdkxwonggyzkawzk
dw gxwymnngxwjkwugwycghhbwhzaqhwujohnb,w mhw grjcgwhqgwsjnxwegdhqgcwZ
mogxwhjwonzxgwjmhwdkxwonggywzkwhqgwejjxowojughzugo,wdkxwojwhqdhwedowd
cgohwhjwugpw Zwnztgxwhqgwjnxwedbow goh,w mhwZwedowaghhzkawojwZwnztgxwhqg
kgewjkgo,whjj,wdwnzhhngw zhpwHqgwezxjewodzxwZwedowsjuzkawdnjkawonjew mh
omcg,wdkxwxjzkawigcbwodhzordshjcbpw Oqgwodzxwoqgwedck'hwdoqdugxwjrwugp

JkgwujckzkawZwqdyygkgxwhjwhmckwjigcwhqgwodnh-sgnndcwdhw cgdtrdohp
 ZwcgdsqgxwrjcwojugwjrwzhwdowvmzstwdowZwsjmnxwhjwhqcjewjigcwubwngrh
oqjmnxgcwdkxwtggywjrrwhqgw dxwnmst,w mhwUzoowEdhojkwedowzkwdqgdxwjrwug,
dkxwscjoogxwugwjrrpwOqgwodbo,w“Hdtgwbjmcwqdkxowdedb,wQmstng gccb;weqdh
dwugoowbjmwdcgwdnedbowudtzka!”w Hqgwezxjewymhwzkwdwajjxwejcxwrjcwug,w mh
hqdhwedck'hwajzkawhjwtggywjrrwhqgw dxwnmst,wZwtkjegxwhqdhwegnnwgkjmaqp
 Zwohdchgxwjmh,wdrhgcw cgdtrdoh,wrggnzkawejcczgxwdkxwoqdtb,wdkx
ejkxgczkaweqgcgwzhwedowajzkawhjwrdnnwjkwug,wdkxweqdhwzhwedowajzkawhjw gp
 Hqgcgwzowedbowhjwtggywjrrwojugwtzkxowjrw dxwnmst,w mhwhqzowedok'hwjkg
jrwhqguwtzkx;wojwZwkgigcwhczgxwhjwxjwdkbhqzka,w mhw.mohwyjtgxwdnjka
nje-oyzczhgxwdkxwjkwhqgwedhsq-jmhp

Zwegkhwxjekwhjwhqgwrcjkhwadcxgkwdkxwsnmu wjigcwhqgwohzngweqgcgwbjmwaj
hqcjmaqwhqgwqzaqw jdcxwrgksgpw Hqgcgwedowdkwzksqwjrwkgewokjewjkwhqg
acjmkx,wdkxwZwoggkwojug jxb'owhcdstopw Hqgbwqdxwsjugwmywrcjuwhqgwvmdccb
dkxwohjjxwdcjmkxwhqgwohzngwdweqzng,wdkxwhqgkwegkhwjkwdcjmkxwhqgwadcxgk
rgksgpw Zhwedowrmkkbwhqgbwqdxk'hwsjugwzk,wdrhgcwohdkxzkawdcjmkxwojpw Z
sjmnxk'hwudtgwzhwjmhpw Zhwedowigcbwsmczjmo,wojugqjepw Zwedowajzkawhj
rjnnjewdcjmkx,w mhwZwohjjygxwxjekwhjwnjjtwdhwhqgwhcdstowrzcohpw Zwxzxk'h
kjhzsgwdkbhqzkawdhwrzcoh,w mhwkgfhwZwxzxpw Hqgcgwedowdwscjoowzkwhqgwngrh
 jjh-qggnwudxgwezhqw zawkdzno,whjwtggywjrrwhqgwxgiznp

Zwedowmywzkwdwogsjkxwdkxwoqzkkzkawxjekwhqgwqznnpw Zwnjjtgxwjigcwub
oqjmnxgcwgigcbwkjewdkxwhqgk,w mhwZwxzxk'hwoggwkj jxbpw Zwedowdhw.mxag
Hqdhsqgc'owdowvmzstwdowZwsjmnxwaghwhqgcgpw Qgwodzx:

“Eqb,wubw jb,wbjmwdcgwdnnwjmhwjrw cgdhqpw Xzxwbjmwsjugwrjcwbjmc
zkhgcgoh?”

“Kj,wozc,”wZwodbo;w“zowhqgcgwojugwrjcwug?”

“Jq,wbgo,wdwqdnr-bgdcnbwzowzkwndohwkzaqh--jigcwdwqmkxcgxwdkxwrzrhb
xjnndcopw Vmzhgwdwrjchmkgwrjcwbjmpw Bjmwqdxw ghhgcwnghwugwzkigohwzh
dnjkawezhqwbjmcwozfwhqjmodkx,w gsdmogwzrwbjmwhdtgwzhwbjm'nnwoygkxwzhp”

“Kj,wozc,”wZwodbo,w“Zwxjk'hwedkhwhjwoygkxwzhpw Zwxjk'hwedkhwzhwdh
dnn--kjcwhqgwozfwhqjmodkx,wkmhqgcpw Zwedkhwbjmwhjwhdtgwzh;wZwedkhwhjwazig
zhwhjwbjm--hqgwozfwhqjmodkxwdkxwdnnp”

Qgwnjjtgxwomcyczogxpw Qgwsjmnxk'hwogguwhjwudtgwzhwjmhpw Qgwodbo:

“Eqb,weqdhwsdkwbjmwugdk,wubw jb?”

Zwodbo,w“Xjk'hwbjmwdotwugwkjwvmgohzjkowd jmhwzh,wyngdogpw Bjm'nnwhdtg
zh--ejk'hwbjm?”

Qgwodbo:

“Egnn,wZ'uwymllngxpw Zowojughqzkawhqgwudhhgc?”

“Yngdogwhdtgwzh,”wodbowZ,w“dkxwxjk'hwdotwugwkjhqzka--hqgkwZwejk'hwqdigwhj
hgnnwkjwnzgop”

Qgwohmxzgxwdweqzng,wdkxwhqgkwqgwodbo:

“Jqj-j!w ZwhqzktwZwoggpw Bjmwedkhwhjw_ognn_wdnnwbjmcwycjygchbwhjwug--kjh
azigwzhpw Hqdh'owhqgwsjccgshwzxgdp”

Hqgkwqgwecjhgwojughqzkawjkwdwydygcwdkxwcgdxwzhwjigc,wdkxwodbo:

“Hqgcg;wbjmwoggwzhwodbow'rjcwdwsjkozxgcdhzjkp'w HqdhwugdkowZwqdigw jmaqh
zhwjrwbjmwdkxwydzxwbjmwrjcwzhpw Qgcg'owdwxjnndcwrjcwbjmpw Kjewbjmwozak
zhp”

OjwZwozakgxwzh,wdkxwngrhp

UzoowEdhojk'owkzaagc,w.zu,wqdxwdwqdzc- dnnwdow zawdowbjmcwrzoh,weqzsq
qdxw ggkwhjjtwjmhwjrwhqgwrjmchqwohjudsqwjrwdkwjf,wdkxwqgwmogxwhjwxj
udazswezhqwzhpw Qgwodzxwhqgcgwedowdwoyzczhwzkozxgwjrwzh,wdkxwzhwtkjegx
gigcbhqzkapw OjwZwegkhwhjwqzuwhqdhwkzaqhwdkxwhjnxwqzuwydywedowqgcg
dadzk,wrjcwZwrjmkxwqzowhcdstowzkwhqgwokjepw EqdhwZwedkhgxwhjwtkjewedo,
eqdhwqgwedowajzkawhjwxj,wdkxwedowqgwajzkawhjwohdb?w .zuwajhwjmhwqzo
qdzc- dnnwdkxwodzxwojughqzkawjigcwzh,wdkxwhqgkwqgwqgnxwzhwmywdkxwxcjyygx
zhwjkwhqgwrnjjcpw Zhwrgnnwycghhbwojnzx,wdkxwjknbwcjnngxwd jmhwdkwzksqp
 .zuwhczgxwzhwdadzk,wdkxwhqgkwdkjhqgcwhzug,wdkxwzhwdshgxw.mohwhqgwodugp
 .zuwajhwxjekwjkwqzowtkggo,wdkxwymhwqzowgdcwdadzkohwzhwdkxwnzohgkgxp
  mhwzhwedck'hwkjwmog;wqgwodzxwzhwejmnxk'hwhdntpwQgwodzxwojughzugowzh
ejmnxk'hwhdntwezhqjmhwujkgbpw ZwhjnxwqzuwZwqdxwdkwjnxwonzstwsjmkhgcrgzh
vmdchgcwhqdhwedck'hwkjwajjxw gsdmogwhqgw cdoowoqjegxwhqcjmaqwhqgwoznigc
dwnzhhng,wdkxwzhwejmnxk'hwydoowkjqje,wgigkwzrwhqgw cdoowxzxk'hwoqje,
 gsdmogwzhwedowojwonzstwzhwrgnhwacgdob,wdkxwojwhqdhwejmnxwhgnnwjkwzh
gigcbwhzugpw (ZwcgstjkgxwZwejmnxk'hwodbwkjhqzkawd jmhwhqgwxjnndcwZwajh
rcjuwhqgw.mxagp)wZwodzxwzhwedowycghhbw dxwujkgb,w mhwudb gwhqgwqdzc- dnn
ejmnxwhdtgwzh,w gsdmogwudb gwzhwejmnxk'hwtkjewhqgwxzrrgcgksgpw .zuwougnh
zhwdkxw zhwzhwdkxwcm  gxwzh,wdkxwodzxwqgwejmnxwudkdagwojwhqgwqdzc- dnn
ejmnxwhqzktwzhwedowajjxpw QgwodzxwqgwejmnxwoynzhwjygkwdwcdewZczoqwyjhdhj
dkxwohzstwhqgwvmdchgcwzkw gheggkwdkxwtggywzhwhqgcgwdnnwkzaqh,wdkxwkgfh
ujckzkawbjmwsjmnxk'hwoggwkjw cdoo,wdkxwzhwejmnxk'hwrggnwacgdobwkjwujcg,
dkxwojwdkb jxbwzkwhjekwejmnxwhdtgwzhwzkwdwuzkmhg,wnghwdnjkgwdwqdzc- dnnp
 Egnn,wZwtkjegxwdwyjhdhjwejmnxwxjwhqdhw grjcg,w mhwZwqdxwrjcajhwzhp

.zuwymhwhqgwvmdchgcwmkxgcwhqgwqdzc- dnn,wdkxwajhwxjekwdkxwnzohgkgx
dadzkpwHqzowhzugwqgwodzxwhqgwqdzc- dnnwedowdnnwczaqhpw Qgwodzxwzh
ejmnxwhgnnwubweqjngwrjchmkgwzrwZwedkhgxwzhwhjpw Zwodbo,wajwjkpw Ojwhqg
qdzc- dnnwhdntgxwhjw.zu,wdkxw.zuwhjnxwzhwhjwugpw Qgwodbo:

“Bj'wjngwrdhqgcwxjdk'wtkjewbzhweqdhwqg'owd-aebkgwhjwxjpw Ojughzugowqg
oygswqg'nnwajw'edb,wgkwxgkwdazkwqgwoygswqg'nnwohdbpw Xgw go'wedbwzowhj
cgo'wgdobwgkwnghwxgwjngwudkwhdtgwqzowjekwedbpw Xgb'owhejwdkagnowqjigczk'
cjmk'w' jmhwqzupw Jkgwmiw'guwzoweqzhgwgkwoqzkb,wgkwh'jhqgcwjkgwzow ndstp
Xgweqzhgwjkgwazhowqzuwhjwajwczaqhwdwnzhhngweqzng,wxgkwxgw ndstwjkgwodzn
zkwgkw mohwzhwdnnwmypw Dw jxbwsdk'hwhgnnwbzhweqzsqwjkgwaebkgwhjwrghsq
qzuwdhwxgwndo'pw  mhwbjmwzowdnnwczaqhpw Bjmwaebkgwhjwqdigwsjkozxd ng
hcjm ngwzkwbj'wnzrg,wgkwsjkozxd ngw.jbpw Ojughzugowbjmwaebkgwhjwazh
qmch,wgkwojughzugowbjmwaebkgwhjwazhwozst;w mhwgigcbwhzugwbjm'owaebkg
hjwazhwegnnwdazkpw Xgb'owhejwadnowrnbzk'w' jmhwbjmwzkwbj'wnzrgpw Jkg
miw'gu'ownzaqhwgkwh'jhqgcwjkgwzowxdctpwJkgwzowczsqwgkwh'jhqgcwzowyj'p
 Bjm'owaebkgwhjwudccbwxgwyj'wjkgwrmohwgkwxgwczsqwjkgw bwgkw bpw Bjm
edkhowhjwtggyw'edbwrmuwxgwedhgcwdowumsqwdowbjmwtzk,wgkwxjk'hwcmkwkj
cgot,w'tdogwzh'owxjekwzkwxgw znnowxdhwbjm'owaebkgwhjwazhwqmkap”

EqgkwZwnzhwubwsdkxngwdkxwegkhwmywhjwubwcjjuwhqdhwkzaqhwhqgcgwodhwydywqzo
jekwognr!




SQDYHGCwIp

Zwqdxwoqmhwhqgwxjjcwhjpw HqgkwZwhmckgxwdcjmkxwdkxwhqgcgwqgwedopw Zwmogx
hjw gwosdcgxwjrwqzuwdnnwhqgwhzug,wqgwhdkkgxwugwojwumsqpw ZwcgstjkgxwZ
edowosdcgxwkje,whjj;w mhwzkwdwuzkmhgwZwoggwZwedowuzohdtgk--hqdhwzo,wdrhgc
hqgwrzcohw.jnh,wdowbjmwudbwodb,weqgkwubw cgdhqwojchwjrwqzhsqgx,wqgw gzka
ojwmkgfygshgx;w mhwczaqhwdedbwdrhgcwZwoggwZwedck'hwosdcgxwjrwqzuwejchq
 jhqczkawd jmhp

Qgwedowujohwrzrhb,wdkxwqgwnjjtgxwzhpw Qzowqdzcwedownjkawdkxwhdkangxwdkx
acgdob,wdkxwqmkawxjek,wdkxwbjmwsjmnxwoggwqzowgbgowoqzkzkawhqcjmaq
nztgwqgwedow gqzkxwizkgopw Zhwedowdnnw ndst,wkjwacdb;wojwedowqzownjka,
uzfgx-myweqzotgcopw Hqgcgwedck'hwkjwsjnjcwzkwqzowrdsg,weqgcgwqzowrdsg
oqjegx;wzhwedoweqzhg;wkjhwnztgwdkjhqgcwudk'oweqzhg,w mhwdweqzhgwhjwudtg
dw jxbwozst,wdweqzhgwhjwudtgwdw jxb'owrngoqwscden--dwhcgg-hjdxweqzhg,wd
rzoq- gnnbweqzhgpw Dowrjcwqzowsnjhqgo--.mohwcdao,whqdhwedowdnnpw Qgwqdx
jkgwdktngwcgohzkawjkwh'jhqgcwtkgg;whqgw jjhwjkwhqdhwrjjhwedow mohgx,wdkx
hejwjrwqzowhjgowohmstwhqcjmaq,wdkxwqgwejctgxwhqguwkjewdkxwhqgkpw Qzowqdh
edowndbzkawjkwhqgwrnjjc--dkwjnxw ndstwonjmsqwezhqwhqgwhjywsdigxwzk,wnztg
dwnzxp

Zwohjjxwd-njjtzkawdhwqzu;wqgwoghwhqgcgwd-njjtzkawdhwug,wezhqwqzowsqdzc
hznhgxw dstwdwnzhhngpw Zwoghwhqgwsdkxngwxjekpw Zwkjhzsgxwhqgwezkxjewedo
my;wojwqgwqdxwsnmu wzkw bwhqgwoqgxpw Qgwtgyhwd-njjtzkawugwdnnwjigcpw  b
dkxw bwqgwodbo:

“Ohdcsqbwsnjhqgo--igcbpw Bjmwhqzktwbjm'cgwdwajjxwxgdnwjrwdw za- ma,
_xjk'h_wbjm?”

“Udb gwZwdu,wudb gwZwdzk'h,”wZwodbop

“Xjk'hwbjmwazigwugwkjkgwj'wbjmcwnzy,”wodbowqgpww“Bjm'igwymhwjk
sjkozxgcd ngwudkbwrcznnowozksgwZw ggkwdedbpw Z'nnwhdtgwbjmwxjekwdwyga
 grjcgwZwaghwxjkgwezhqwbjmpw Bjm'cgwgxmsdhgx,whjj,whqgbwodb--sdkwcgdxwdkx
eczhgpw Bjmwhqzktwbjm'cgw ghhgc'kwbjmcwrdhqgc,wkje,wxjk'hwbjm,w gsdmog
qgwsdk'h?w _Z'nn_whdtgwzhwjmhwjrwbjmpw Eqjwhjnxwbjmwbjmwuzaqhwugxxng
ezhqwomsqwqzrdnmh'kwrjjnzoqkgoo,wqgb?--eqjwhjnxwbjmwbjmwsjmnx?”

“Hqgwezxjepw Oqgwhjnxwugp”

“Hqgwezxje,wqgb?--dkxweqjwhjnxwhqgwezxjewoqgwsjmnxwymhwzkwqgcwoqjign
d jmhwdwhqzkawhqdhwdzk'hwkjkgwjrwqgcw mozkgoo?”

“Kj jxbwkgigcwhjnxwqgcp”

“Egnn,wZ'nnwngdckwqgcwqjewhjwugxxngpw Dkxwnjjtbwqgcg--bjmwxcjywhqdh
osqjjn,wbjmwqgdc?w Z'nnwngdckwygjyngwhjw czkawmywdw jbwhjwymhwjkwdzco
jigcwqzowjekwrdhqgcwdkxwnghwjkwhjw gw ghhgc'kweqdhw_qg_wzopw Bjmwnguug
sdhsqwbjmwrjjnzkawdcjmkxwhqdhwosqjjnwdadzk,wbjmwqgdc?w Bjmcwujhqgc
sjmnxk'hwcgdx,wdkxwoqgwsjmnxk'hweczhg,wkmhqgc,w grjcgwoqgwxzgxpw Kjkg
jrwhqgwrduznbwsjmnxk'hw grjcgw_hqgb_wxzgxpw Zwsdk'h;wdkxwqgcgwbjm'cg
d-oegnnzkawbjmcognrwmywnztgwhqzopw Zwdzk'hwhqgwudkwhjwohdkxwzh--bjmwqgdc?
Odb,wnguugwqgdcwbjmwcgdxp”

Zwhjjtwmywdw jjtwdkxw gamkwojughqzkawd jmhwAgkgcdnwEdoqzkahjkwdkxwhqg
edcopwEqgkwZ'xwcgdxwd jmhwdwqdnrwdwuzkmhg,wqgwrghsqgxwhqgw jjtwdweqdst
ezhqwqzowqdkxwdkxwtkjstgxwzhwdscjoowhqgwqjmogpw Qgwodbo:

“Zh'owojpw Bjmwsdkwxjwzhpw Zwqdxwubwxjm howeqgkwbjmwhjnxwugpw Kjewnjjtb
qgcg;wbjmwohjywhqdhwymhhzkawjkwrcznnopw Zwejk'hwqdigwzhpw Z'nnwndbwrjc
bjm,wubwoudchb;wdkxwzrwZwsdhsqwbjmwd jmhwhqdhwosqjjnwZ'nnwhdkwbjmwajjxp
Rzcohwbjmwtkjewbjm'nnwaghwcgnzazjk,whjjpw Zwkgigcwoggwomsqwdwojkp”

Qgwhjjtwmywdwnzhhngw nmgwdkxwbdnngcwyzshmcgwjrwojugwsjeowdkxwdw jb,wdkx
odbo:

“Eqdh'owhqzo?”

“Zh'owojughqzkawhqgbwazigwugwrjcwngdckzkawubwngoojkowajjxp”

Qgwhjcgwzhwmy,wdkxwodbo:

“Z'nnwazigwbjmwojughqzkaw ghhgc--Z'nnwazigwbjmwdwsjeqzxgp”

Qgwoghwhqgcgwd-umu nzkawdkxwd-acjenzkawdwuzkmhg,wdkxwhqgkwqgwodbo:

“_Dzk'h_wbjmwdwoeggh-osgkhgxwxdkxb,whqjmaq?w Dw gx;wdkxw gxsnjhqgo;wdkx
dwnjjt'k'-andoo;wdkxwdwyzgsgwjrwsdcyghwjkwhqgwrnjjc--dkxwbjmcwjekwrdhqgc
ajhwhjwonggywezhqwhqgwqjaowzkwhqgwhdkbdcxpw Zwkgigcwoggwomsqwdwojkpw Z
 ghwZ'nnwhdtgwojugwj'whqgogwrcznnowjmhwj'wbjmw grjcgwZ'uwxjkgwezhqwbjmp
Eqb,whqgcgwdzk'hwkjwgkxwhjwbjmcwdzco--hqgbwodbwbjm'cgwczsqpw Qgb?--qje'o
hqdh?”

“Hqgbwnzg--hqdh'owqjep”

“Njjtbwqgcg--uzkxwqjewbjmwhdntwhjwug;wZ'uwd-ohdkxzkawd jmhwdnnwZwsdk
ohdkxwkje--ojwxjk'hwazuugwkjwodoopw Z'igw ggkwzkwhjekwhejwxdbo,wdkxwZ
qdzk'hwqgdcxwkjhqzkaw mhwd jmhwbjmw gzk'wczsqpw Zwqgdcxwd jmhwzh
dedbwxjekwhqgwczigc,whjjpw Hqdh'oweqbwZwsjugpw Bjmwazhwugwhqdhwujkgb
hj-ujccje--Zwedkhwzhp”

“Zwqdzk'hwajhwkjwujkgbp”

“Zh'owdwnzgpw .mxagwHqdhsqgc'owajhwzhpw Bjmwazhwzhpw Zwedkhwzhp”

“Zwqdzk'hwajhwkjwujkgb,wZwhgnnwbjmpw Bjmwdotw.mxagwHqdhsqgc;wqg'nnwhgnn
bjmwhqgwodugp”

“Dnnwczaqhpw Z'nnwdotwqzu;wdkxwZ'nnwudtgwqzuwymkang,whjj,wjcwZ'nnwtkje
hqgwcgdojkweqbpw Odb,wqjewumsqwbjmwajhwzkwbjmcwyjstgh?w Zwedkhwzhp”

“Zwqdzk'hwajhwjknbwdwxjnndc,wdkxwZwedkhwhqdhwhj--”

“Zhwxjk'hwudtgwkjwxzrrgcgksgweqdhwbjmwedkhwzhwrjc--bjmw.mohwoqgnnwzh
jmhp”

Qgwhjjtwzhwdkxw zhwzhwhjwoggwzrwzhwedowajjx,wdkxwhqgkwqgwodzxwqgwedo
ajzkawxjekwhjekwhjwaghwojugweqzotb;wodzxwqgwqdxk'hwqdxwdwxczktwdnnwxdbp
Eqgkwqgwqdxwajhwjmhwjkwhqgwoqgxwqgwymhwqzowqgdxwzkwdadzk,wdkxwsmoogx
ugwrjcwymhhzkawjkwrcznnowdkxwhcbzkawhjw gw ghhgcwhqdkwqzu;wdkxweqgkwZ
cgstjkgxwqgwedowajkgwqgwsjugw dstwdkxwymhwqzowqgdxwzkwdadzk,wdkxwhjnxwug
hjwuzkxwd jmhwhqdhwosqjjn,w gsdmogwqgwedowajzkawhjwndbwrjcwugwdkxwnzst
ugwzrwZwxzxk'hwxcjywhqdhp

Kgfhwxdbwqgwedowxcmkt,wdkxwqgwegkhwhjw.mxagwHqdhsqgc'owdkxw mnnbcdaagx
qzu,wdkxwhczgxwhjwudtgwqzuwazigwmywhqgwujkgb;w mhwqgwsjmnxk'h,wdkxwhqgk
qgwoejcgwqg'xwudtgwhqgwndewrjcsgwqzup

Hqgw.mxagwdkxwhqgwezxjewegkhwhjwndewhjwaghwhqgwsjmchwhjwhdtgwugwdedb
rcjuwqzuwdkxwnghwjkgwjrwhqguw gwubwamdcxzdk;w mhwzhwedowdwkgew.mxagwhqdh
qdxw.mohwsjug,wdkxwqgwxzxk'hwtkjewhqgwjnxwudk;wojwqgwodzxwsjmchowumohk'h
zkhgcrgcgwdkxwogydcdhgwrduznzgowzrwhqgbwsjmnxwqgnywzh;wodzxwqg'xwxcmhqgc
kjhwhdtgwdwsqznxwdedbwrcjuwzhowrdhqgcpw Ojw.mxagwHqdhsqgcwdkxwhqgwezxje
qdxwhjwvmzhwjkwhqgw mozkgoop

Hqdhwyngdogxwhqgwjnxwudkwhznnwqgwsjmnxk'hwcgohpw Qgwodzxwqg'xwsjeqzxg
ugwhznnwZwedow ndstwdkxw nmgwzrwZwxzxk'hwcdzogwojugwujkgbwrjcwqzupw Z
 jccjegxwhqcggwxjnndcowrcjuw.mxagwHqdhsqgc,wdkxwydywhjjtwzhwdkxwajh
xcmkt,wdkxwegkhwd- njezkawdcjmkxwdkxwsmoozkawdkxweqjjyzkawdkxwsdccbzka
jk;wdkxwqgwtgyhwzhwmywdnnwjigcwhjek,wezhqwdwhzkwydk,whznnwujohwuzxkzaqh;
hqgkwhqgbw.dzngxwqzu,wdkxwkgfhwxdbwhqgbwqdxwqzuw grjcgwsjmch,wdkxw.dzngx
qzuwdadzkwrjcwdweggtpw  mhwqgwodzxw_qg_wedowodhzorzgx;wodzxwqgwedow joo
jrwqzowojk,wdkxwqg'xwudtgwzhwedcuwrjcw_qzu_p

Eqgkwqgwajhwjmhwhqgwkgew.mxagwodzxwqgwedowd-ajzkawhjwudtgwdwudkwjrwqzup
Ojwqgwhjjtwqzuwhjwqzowjekwqjmog,wdkxwxcgoogxwqzuwmywsngdkwdkxwkzsg,wdkx
qdxwqzuwhjw cgdtrdohwdkxwxzkkgcwdkxwomyygcwezhqwhqgwrduznb,wdkxwedow.moh
jnxwyzgwhjwqzu,wojwhjwoygdtpw Dkxwdrhgcwomyygcwqgwhdntgxwhjwqzuwd jmh
hguygcdksgwdkxwomsqwhqzkaowhznnwhqgwjnxwudkwsczgx,wdkxwodzxwqg'xw ggk
dwrjjn,wdkxwrjjngxwdedbwqzownzrg;w mhwkjewqgwedowd-ajzkawhjwhmckwjigc
dwkgewngdrwdkxw gwdwudkwkj jxbwejmnxk'hw gwdoqdugxwjr,wdkxwqgwqjygxwhqg
.mxagwejmnxwqgnywqzuwdkxwkjhwnjjtwxjekwjkwqzupw Hqgw.mxagwodzxwqgwsjmnx
qmawqzuwrjcwhqguwejcxo;wojwqgwsczgx,wdkxwqzowezrgwoqgwsczgxwdadzk;wydy
odzxwqg'xw ggkwdwudkwhqdhwqdxwdnedbow ggkwuzomkxgcohjjxw grjcg,wdkxwhqg
.mxagwodzxwqgw gnzgigxwzhpw Hqgwjnxwudkwodzxwhqdhweqdhwdwudkwedkhgx
hqdhwedowxjekwedowobuydhqb,wdkxwhqgw.mxagwodzxwzhwedowoj;wojwhqgbwsczgx
dadzkpw Dkxweqgkwzhwedow gxhzugwhqgwjnxwudkwcjogwmywdkxwqgnxwjmhwqzo
qdkx,wdkxwodbo:

“Njjtwdhwzh,wagkhngugkwdkxwndxzgowdnn;whdtgwd-qjnxwjrwzh;woqdtgwzhp
Hqgcg'owdwqdkxwhqdhwedowhqgwqdkxwjrwdwqja;w mhwzhwdzk'hwojwkjwujcg;wzh'o
hqgwqdkxwjrwdwudkwhqdh'owohdchgxwzkwjkwdwkgewnzrg,wdkx'nnwxzgw grjcg
qg'nnwajw dstpw Bjmwudctwhqguwejcxo--xjk'hwrjcaghwZwodzxwhqgupw Zh'owd
sngdkwqdkxwkje;woqdtgwzh--xjk'hw gwdrgdcxp”

Ojwhqgbwoqjjtwzh,wjkgwdrhgcwhqgwjhqgc,wdnnwdcjmkx,wdkxwsczgxpw Hqg
.mxag'owezrgwoqgwtzoogxwzhpw Hqgkwhqgwjnxwudkwqgwozakgxwdwyngxag--udxg
qzowudctpwHqgw.mxagwodzxwzhwedowhqgwqjnzgohwhzugwjkwcgsjcx,wjcwojughqzka
nztgwhqdhpwHqgkwhqgbwhmstgxwhqgwjnxwudkwzkhjwdw gdmhzrmnwcjju,weqzsqwedo
hqgwoydcgwcjju,wdkxwzkwhqgwkzaqhwojugwhzugwqgwajhwyjegcrmnwhqzcohbwdkx
snmu wjmhwjkwhjwhqgwyjcsq-cjjrwdkxwonzxwxjekwdwohdksqzjkwdkxwhcdxgxwqzo
kgewsjdhwrjcwdw.mawjrwrjchb-cjx,wdkxwsnmu w dstwdadzkwdkxwqdxwdwajjxwjnx
hzug;wdkxwhjedcxowxdbnzaqhwqgwscdengxwjmhwdadzk,wxcmktwdowdwrzxxngc,wdkx
cjnngxwjrrwhqgwyjcsqwdkxw cjtgwqzowngrhwdcuwzkwhejwyndsgo,wdkxwedowujoh
rcjlgwhjwxgdhqweqgkwojug jxbwrjmkxwqzuwdrhgcwomk-mypw Dkxweqgkwhqgbwsjug
hjwnjjtwdhwhqdhwoydcgwcjjuwhqgbwqdxwhjwhdtgwojmkxzkaow grjcgwhqgbwsjmnx
kdizadhgwzhp

Hqgw.mxagwqgwrgnhwtzkxwjrwojcgpw Qgwodzxwqgwcgstjkgxwdw jxbwsjmnxwcgrjcu
hqgwjnxwudkwezhqwdwoqjhamk,wudb g,w mhwqgwxzxk'hwtkjewkjwjhqgcwedbp




SQDYHGCwIZp

EGNN,wycghhbwojjkwhqgwjnxwudkwedowmywdkxwdcjmkxwdadzk,wdkxwhqgkwqgwegkh
rjcw.mxagwHqdhsqgcwzkwhqgwsjmchowhjwudtgwqzuwazigwmywhqdhwujkgb,wdkxwqg
egkhwrjcwug,whjj,wrjcwkjhwohjyyzkawosqjjnpw Qgwsdhsqgxwugwdwsjmyngwjr
hzugowdkxwhqcdoqgxwug,w mhwZwegkhwhjwosqjjnw.mohwhqgwodug,wdkxwxjxagx
qzuwjcwjmhcmkwqzuwujohwjrwhqgwhzugpw Zwxzxk'hwedkhwhjwajwhjwosqjjnwumsq
 grjcg,w mhwZwcgstjkgxwZ'xwajwkjewhjwoyzhgwydypw Hqdhwndewhczdnwedowd
onjew mozkgoo--dyygdcgxwnztgwhqgbwedck'hwgigcwajzkawhjwaghwohdchgxwjkwzh;
ojwgigcbwkjewdkxwhqgkwZ'xw jccjewhejwjcwhqcggwxjnndcowjrrwjrwhqgw.mxag
rjcwqzu,whjwtggywrcjuwaghhzkawdwsjeqzxzkapw Gigcbwhzugwqgwajhwujkgbwqg
ajhwxcmkt;wdkxwgigcbwhzugwqgwajhwxcmktwqgwcdzogxwSdzkwdcjmkxwhjek;wdkx
gigcbwhzugwqgwcdzogxwSdzkwqgwajhw.dzngxpw Qgwedow.mohwomzhgx--hqzowtzkx
jrwhqzkawedowczaqhwzkwqzownzkgp

Qgwajhwhjwqdkazkawdcjmkxwhqgwezxje'owhjjwumsqwdkxwojwoqgwhjnxwqzuwdh
ndohwhqdhwzrwqgwxzxk'hwvmzhwmozkawdcjmkxwhqgcgwoqgwejmnxwudtgwhcjm ng
rjcwqzupwEgnn,w_edok'h_wqgwudx?w QgwodzxwqgwejmnxwoqjeweqjwedowQmst
Rzkk'ow joopw Ojwqgwedhsqgxwjmhwrjcwugwjkgwxdbwzkwhqgwoyczka,wdkx
sdhsqgxwug,wdkxwhjjtwugwmywhqgwczigcwd jmhwhqcggwuzngwzkwdwotzrr,wdkx
scjoogxwjigcwhjwhqgwZnnzkjzowoqjcgweqgcgwzhwedowejjxbwdkxwhqgcgwedck'h
kjwqjmogow mhwdkwjnxwnjawqmhwzkwdwyndsgweqgcgwhqgwhzu gcwedowojwhqzst
bjmwsjmnxk'hwrzkxwzhwzrwbjmwxzxk'hwtkjeweqgcgwzhwedop

Qgwtgyhwugwezhqwqzuwdnnwhqgwhzug,wdkxwZwkgigcwajhwdwsqdksgwhjwcmkwjrrp
Egwnzigxwzkwhqdhwjnxwsd zk,wdkxwqgwdnedbownjstgxwhqgwxjjcwdkxwymhwhqg
tgbwmkxgcwqzowqgdxwkzaqhopw Qgwqdxwdwamkweqzsqwqgwqdxwohjng,wZwcgstjk,
dkxwegwrzoqgxwdkxwqmkhgx,wdkxwhqdhwedoweqdhwegwnzigxwjkpw Gigcbwnzhhng
eqzngwqgwnjstgxwugwzkwdkxwegkhwxjekwhjwhqgwohjcg,whqcggwuzngo,whjwhqg
rgccb,wdkxwhcdxgxwrzoqwdkxwadugwrjcweqzotb,wdkxwrghsqgxwzhwqjugwdkxwajh
xcmktwdkxwqdxwdwajjxwhzug,wdkxwnzstgxwugpw Hqgwezxjewoqgwrjmkxwjmhweqgcg
Zwedow bwdkxw b,wdkxwoqgwogkhwdwudkwjigcwhjwhcbwhjwaghwqjnxwjrwug;w mh
ydywxcjigwqzuwjrrwezhqwhqgwamk,wdkxwzhwedck'hwnjkawdrhgcwhqdhwhznnwZwedo
mogxwhjw gzkaweqgcgwZwedo,wdkxwnztgxwzh--dnnw mhwhqgwsjeqzxgwydchp

Zhwedowtzkxwjrwndlbwdkxw.jnnb,wndbzkawjrrwsjurjchd ngwdnnwxdb,woujtzka
dkxwrzoqzka,wdkxwkjw jjtowkjcwohmxbpw Hejwujkhqowjcwujcgwcmkwdnjka,wdkx
ubwsnjhqgowajhwhjw gwdnnwcdaowdkxwxzch,wdkxwZwxzxk'hwoggwqjewZ'xwgigc
ajhwhjwnztgwzhwojwegnnwdhwhqgwezxje'o,weqgcgwbjmwqdxwhjwedoq,wdkxwgdhwjk
dwyndhg,wdkxwsju wmy,wdkxwajwhjw gxwdkxwaghwmywcgamndc,wdkxw gwrjcgigc
 jhqgczkawjigcwdw jjt,wdkxwqdigwjnxwUzoowEdhojkwygstzkawdhwbjmwdnnwhqg
hzugpw Zwxzxk'hwedkhwhjwajw dstwkjwujcgpw Zwqdxwohjyygxwsmoozka,w gsdmog
hqgwezxjewxzxk'hwnztgwzh;w mhwkjewZwhjjtwhjwzhwdadzkw gsdmogwydywqdxk'h
kjwj .gshzjkopw Zhwedowycghhbwajjxwhzugowmywzkwhqgwejjxowhqgcg,whdtgwzh
dnnwdcjmkxp

 mhw bwdkxw bwydywajhwhjjwqdkxbwezhqwqzowqzst'cb,wdkxwZwsjmnxk'hwohdkx
zhpwZwedowdnnwjigcwegnhopw Qgwajhwhjwajzkawdedbwojwumsq,whjj,wdkx
njstzkawugwzkpw Jksgwqgwnjstgxwugwzkwdkxwedowajkgwhqcggwxdbopw Zhwedo
xcgdxrmnwnjkgojugpw Zw.mxagxwqgwqdxwajhwxcjekxgx,wdkxwZwedok'hwgigc
ajzkawhjwaghwjmhwdkbwujcgpw Zwedowosdcgxpw ZwudxgwmywubwuzkxwZwejmnxwrzf
mywojugwedbwhjwngdigwhqgcgpw Zwqdxwhczgxwhjwaghwjmhwjrwhqdhwsd zkwudkb
dwhzug,w mhwZwsjmnxk'hwrzkxwkjwedbpw Hqgcgwedck'hwdwezkxjewhjwzhw za
gkjmaqwrjcwdwxjawhjwaghwhqcjmaqpw Zwsjmnxk'hwaghwmywhqgwsqzu nb;wzh
edowhjjwkdccjepw Hqgwxjjcwedowhqzst,wojnzxwjdtwond opw Ydywedowycghhb
sdcgrmnwkjhwhjwngdigwdwtkzrgwjcwdkbhqzkawzkwhqgwsd zkweqgkwqgwedowdedb;
ZwcgstjkwZwqdxwqmkhgxwhqgwyndsgwjigcwdowumsqwdowdwqmkxcgxwhzugo;wegnn,wZ
edowujohwdnnwhqgwhzugwdhwzh,w gsdmogwzhwedowd jmhwhqgwjknbwedbwhjwymhwzk
hqgwhzugpw  mhwhqzowhzugwZwrjmkxwojughqzkawdhwndoh;wZwrjmkxwdkwjnxwcmohb
ejjx-odewezhqjmhwdkbwqdkxng;wzhwedowndzxwzkw gheggkwdwcdrhgcwdkxwhqg
sndy jdcxowjrwhqgwcjjrpwZwacgdogxwzhwmywdkxwegkhwhjwejctpw Hqgcgwedowdk
jnxwqjcog- ndktghwkdzngxwdadzkohwhqgwnjaowdhwhqgwrdcwgkxwjrwhqgwsd zk
 gqzkxwhqgwhd ng,whjwtggywhqgwezkxwrcjuw njezkawhqcjmaqwhqgwsqzktowdkx
ymhhzkawhqgwsdkxngwjmhpw Zwajhwmkxgcwhqgwhd ngwdkxwcdzogxwhqgw ndktgh,
dkxwegkhwhjwejctwhjwodewdwogshzjkwjrwhqgw zaw jhhjuwnjawjmh-- zawgkjmaq
hjwnghwugwhqcjmaqpw Egnn,wzhwedowdwajjxwnjkaw.j ,w mhwZwedowaghhzka
hjedcxowhqgwgkxwjrwzhweqgkwZwqgdcxwydy'owamkwzkwhqgwejjxopw Zwajhwczxwjr
hqgwozakowjrwubwejct,wdkxwxcjyygxwhqgw ndktghwdkxwqzxwubwode,wdkxwycghhb
ojjkwydywsjugwzkp

Ydywedck'hwzkwdwajjxwqmujc--ojwqgwedowqzowkdhmcdnwognrpw Qgwodzxwqgwedo
xjekwhjek,wdkxwgigcbhqzkawedowajzkawecjkapw Qzowndebgcwodzxwqgwcgstjkgx
qgwejmnxwezkwqzowndeomzhwdkxwaghwhqgwujkgbwzrwhqgbwgigcwajhwohdchgxwjk
hqgwhczdn;w mhwhqgkwhqgcgwedowedbowhjwymhwzhwjrrwdwnjkawhzug,wdkxw.mxag
HqdhsqgcwtkjegxwqjewhjwxjwzhpwDkxwqgwodzxwygjyngwdnnjegxwhqgcg'xw g
dkjhqgcwhczdnwhjwaghwugwdedbwrcjuwqzuwdkxwazigwugwhjwhqgwezxjewrjcwub
amdcxzdk,wdkxwhqgbwamgoogxwzhwejmnxwezkwhqzowhzugpw Hqzowoqjjtwugwmy
sjkozxgcd ng,w gsdmogwZwxzxk'hwedkhwhjwajw dstwhjwhqgwezxje'owdkbwujcg
dkxw gwojwscduygxwmywdkxwoziznzlgx,wdowhqgbwsdnngxwzhpw Hqgkwhqgwjnxwudk
ajhwhjwsmoozka,wdkxwsmoogxwgigcbhqzkawdkxwgigcb jxbwqgwsjmnxwhqzktwjr,
dkxwhqgkwsmoogxwhqguwdnnwjigcwdadzkwhjwudtgwomcgwqgwqdxk'hwotzyygxwdkb,
dkxwdrhgcwhqdhwqgwyjnzoqgxwjrrwezhqwdwtzkxwjrwdwagkgcdnwsmoowdnnwcjmkx,
zksnmxzkawdwsjkozxgcd ngwydcsgnwjrwygjyngweqzsqwqgwxzxk'hwtkjewhqgwkdugo
jr,wdkxwojwsdnngxwhqguweqdh'o-qzo-kdugweqgkwqgwajhwhjwhqgu,wdkxwegkh
czaqhwdnjkawezhqwqzowsmoozkap

Qgwodzxwqgwejmnxwnztgwhjwoggwhqgwezxjewaghwugpw Qgwodzxwqgwejmnxwedhsq
jmh,wdkxwzrwhqgbwhczgxwhjwsjugwdkbwomsqwadugwjkwqzuwqgwtkjegxwjrwdwyndsg
ozfwjcwogigkwuzngwjrrwhjwohjewugwzk,weqgcgwhqgbwuzaqhwqmkhwhznnwhqgb
xcjyygxwdkxwhqgbwsjmnxk'hwrzkxwugpw Hqdhwudxgwugwycghhbwmkgdobwdadzk,
 mhwjknbwrjcwdwuzkmhg;wZwcgstjkgxwZwejmnxk'hwohdbwjkwqdkxwhznnwqgwajh
hqdhwsqdksgp

Hqgwjnxwudkwudxgwugwajwhjwhqgwotzrrwdkxwrghsqwhqgwhqzkaowqgwqdx
ajhpwHqgcgwedowdwrzrhb-yjmkxwodstwjrwsjckwugdn,wdkxwdwozxgwjrw dsjk,
duumkzhzjk,wdkxwdwrjmc-adnnjkw.mawjrweqzotb,wdkxwdkwjnxw jjtwdkxwhej
kgeoydygcowrjcwedxxzka,w gozxgowojugwhjepw Zwhjhgxwmywdwnjdx,wdkxwegkh
 dstwdkxwoghwxjekwjkwhqgw jewjrwhqgwotzrrwhjwcgohpw Zwhqjmaqhwzhwdnn
jigc,wdkxwZwcgstjkgxwZwejmnxwedntwjrrwezhqwhqgwamkwdkxwojugwnzkgo,wdkx
hdtgwhjwhqgwejjxoweqgkwZwcmkwdedbpw ZwamgoogxwZwejmnxk'hwohdbwzkwjkg
yndsg,w mhw.mohwhcduywczaqhwdscjoowhqgwsjmkhcb,wujohnbwkzaqhwhzugo,wdkx
qmkhwdkxwrzoqwhjwtggywdnzig,wdkxwojwaghwojwrdcwdedbwhqdhwhqgwjnxwudkwkjc
hqgwezxjewsjmnxk'hwgigcwrzkxwugwdkbwujcgpw Zw.mxagxwZwejmnxwodewjmhwdkx
ngdigwhqdhwkzaqhwzrwydywajhwxcmktwgkjmaq,wdkxwZwcgstjkgxwqgwejmnxpw Z
ajhwojwrmnnwjrwzhwZwxzxk'hwkjhzsgwqjewnjkawZwedowohdbzkawhznnwhqgwjnx
udkwqjnngcgxwdkxwdotgxwugweqghqgcwZwedowdonggywjcwxcjekxgxp

Zwajhwhqgwhqzkaowdnnwmywhjwhqgwsd zk,wdkxwhqgkwzhwedowd jmhwxdctpw Eqzng
Zwedowsjjtzkawomyygcwhqgwjnxwudkwhjjtwdwoezawjcwhejwdkxwajhwojchwjr
edcugxwmy,wdkxwegkhwhjwczyyzkawdadzkpw Qgwqdxw ggkwxcmktwjigcwzkwhjek,
dkxwndzxwzkwhqgwamhhgcwdnnwkzaqh,wdkxwqgwedowdwozaqhwhjwnjjtwdhpw Dw jxb
ejmnxwdwhqjmaqhwqgwedowDxdu--qgwedow.mohwdnnwumxpw Eqgkgigcwqzownzvmjc
 gamkwhjwejctwqgwujohwdnedbowegkhwrjcwhqgwajiugkh,whqzowhzugwqgwodbo:

“Sdnnwhqzowdwajiugkh!weqb,w.mohwnjjtwdhwzhwdkxwoggweqdhwzh'ownztgp
Qgcg'owhqgwndewd-ohdkxzkawcgdxbwhjwhdtgwdwudk'owojkwdedbwrcjuwqzu--d
udk'owjekwojk,weqzsqwqgwqdowqdxwdnnwhqgwhcjm ngwdkxwdnnwhqgwdkfzghb
dkxwdnnwhqgwgfygkogwjrwcdzozkapw Bgo,w.mohwdowhqdhwudkwqdowajhwhqdh
ojkwcdzogxwdhwndoh,wdkxwcgdxbwhjwajwhjwejctwdkxw gazkwhjwxjwomhqzk'wrjc
_qzu_wdkxwazigwqzuwdwcgoh,whqgwndewmywdkxwajgowrjcwqzupw Dkxwhqgbwsdnn
_hqdh_wajiugkh!w Hqdhwdzk'hwdnn,wkmhqgcpw Hqgwndew dstowhqdhwjnxw.mxag
Hqdhsqgcwmywdkxwqgnyowqzuwhjwtggywugwjmhwj'wubwycjygchbpw Qgcg'oweqdh
hqgwndewxjgo:w Hqgwndewhdtgowdwudkwejchqwozfwhqjmodkxwxjnndcowdkx
my'dcxo,wdkxw.duowqzuwzkhjwdkwjnxwhcdywjrwdwsd zkwnztgwhqzo,wdkxwngho
qzuwajwcjmkxwzkwsnjhqgowhqdhwdzk'hwrzhhgkwrjcwdwqjapwHqgbwsdnnwhqdh
ajiugkh!w Dwudkwsdk'hwaghwqzowczaqhowzkwdwajiugkhwnztgwhqzopwOjughzugo
Z'igwdwuzaqhbwkjhzjkwhjw.mohwngdigwhqgwsjmkhcbwrjcwajjxwdkxwdnnpwBgo,
dkxwZw_hjnx_w'guwoj;wZwhjnxwjnxwHqdhsqgcwojwhjwqzowrdsgpw Njhowjrw'gu
qgdcxwug,wdkxwsdkwhgnnweqdhwZwodzxpw OdbowZ,wrjcwhejwsgkhowZ'xwngdigwhqg
 ndugxwsjmkhcbwdkxwkgigcwsjugwd-kgdcwzhwdazkpw Hqgu'owhqgwigcbwejcxopw Z
odbownjjtwdhwubwqdh--zrwbjmwsdnnwzhwdwqdh-- mhwhqgwnzxwcdzogowmywdkxwhqg
cgohwjrwzhwajgowxjekwhznnwzh'ow gnjewubwsqzk,wdkxwhqgkwzhwdzk'hwczaqhnb
dwqdhwdhwdnn,w mhwujcgwnztgwubwqgdxwedowoqjigxwmywhqcjmaqwdw.zkhwj'
ohjig-yzygpw Njjtwdhwzh,wodbowZ--omsqwdwqdhwrjcwugwhjwegdc--jkgwjrwhqg
egdnhqzgohwugkwzkwhqzowhjekwzrwZwsjmnxwazhwubwczaqhop

“Jq,wbgo,whqzowzowdwejkxgcrmnwajiugkh,wejkxgcrmnpw Eqb,wnjjtbwqgcgp
HqgcgwedowdwrcggwkzaagcwhqgcgwrcjuwJqzj--dwumndhhgc,wujohwdoweqzhgwdo
dweqzhgwudkpw Qgwqdxwhqgweqzhgohwoqzchwjkwbjmwgigcwogg,whjj,wdkxwhqg
oqzkzgohwqdh;wdkxwhqgcgwdzk'hwdwudkwzkwhqdhwhjekwhqdh'owajhwdowrzkg
snjhqgowdoweqdhwqgwqdx;wdkxwqgwqdxwdwajnxwedhsqwdkxwsqdzk,wdkxwd
oznigc-qgdxgxwsdkg--hqgwdermngohwjnxwacdb-qgdxgxwkd j wzkwhqgwOhdhgpw Dkx
eqdhwxjwbjmwhqzkt?w Hqgbwodzxwqgwedowdwy'rgoojcwzkwdwsjnngag,wdkxwsjmnx
hdntwdnnwtzkxowjrwndkamdago,wdkxwtkjegxwgigcbhqzkapw Dkxwhqdhwdzk'hwhqg
emohpwHqgbwodzxwqgwsjmnxw_ijhg_weqgkwqgwedowdhwqjugpw Egnn,whqdhwnghwug
jmhpwHqzktowZ,weqdhwzowhqgwsjmkhcbwd-sjuzkawhj?w Zhwedow'ngshzjkwxdb,
dkxwZwedow.mohwd jmhwhjwajwdkxwijhgwubognrwzrwZwedck'hwhjjwxcmktwhjwagh
hqgcg;w mhweqgkwhqgbwhjnxwugwhqgcgwedowdwOhdhgwzkwhqzowsjmkhcbweqgcg
hqgb'xwnghwhqdhwkzaagcwijhg,wZwxcdegxwjmhpw ZwodbowZ'nnwkgigcwijhgwdazkp
 Hqgu'owhqgwigcbwejcxowZwodzx;whqgbwdnnwqgdcxwug;wdkxwhqgwsjmkhcbwudb
cjhwrjcwdnnwug--Z'nnwkgigcwijhgwdazkwdownjkawdowZwnzigpw Dkxwhjwoggwhqg
sjjnwedbwjrwhqdhwkzaagc--eqb,wqgwejmnxk'hwdwazigwugwhqgwcjdxwzrwZwqdxk'h
oqjigxwqzuwjmhwj'whqgwedbpw Zwodbowhjwhqgwygjyng,weqbwdzk'hwhqzowkzaagc
ymhwmywdhwdmshzjkwdkxwojnx?--hqdh'oweqdhwZwedkhwhjwtkjepw Dkxweqdhwxjwbjm
cgstjkwhqgbwodzx?wEqb,whqgbwodzxwqgwsjmnxk'hw gwojnxwhznnwqg'xw ggkwzk
hqgwOhdhgwozfwujkhqo,wdkxwqgwqdxk'hw ggkwhqgcgwhqdhwnjkawbghpw Hqgcg,
kje--hqdh'owdwoygszugkpw Hqgbwsdnnwhqdhwdwajiugkhwhqdhwsdk'hwognnwdwrcgg
kzaagcwhznnwqg'ow ggkwzkwhqgwOhdhgwozfwujkhqopw Qgcg'owdwajiugkhwhqdh
sdnnowzhognrwdwajiugkh,wdkxwnghowjkwhjw gwdwajiugkh,wdkxwhqzktowzhwzowd
ajiugkh,wdkxwbgh'owajhwhjwoghwohjst-ohznnwrjcwozfweqjngwujkhqow grjcg
zhwsdkwhdtgwdwqjnxwjrwdwycjenzka,whqzgizka,wzkrgckdn,weqzhg-oqzchgxwrcgg
kzaagc,wdkx--”

Ydywedowdajzkawjkwojwqgwkgigcwkjhzsgxweqgcgwqzowjnxwnzu gcwngaowedo
hdtzkawqzuwhj,wojwqgwegkhwqgdxwjigcwqggnowjigcwhqgwhm wjrwodnhwyjctwdkx
 dctgxw jhqwoqzko,wdkxwhqgwcgohwjrwqzowoyggsqwedowdnnwhqgwqjhhgohwtzkx
jrwndkamdag--ujohnbwqjigwdhwhqgwkzaagcwdkxwhqgwajiugkh,whqjmaqwqgwazig
hqgwhm wojug,whjj,wdnnwdnjka,wqgcgwdkxwhqgcgpw Qgwqjyygxwdcjmkxwhqg
sd zkwsjkozxgcd ng,wrzcohwjkwjkgwngawdkxwhqgkwjkwhqgwjhqgc,wqjnxzka
rzcohwjkgwoqzkwdkxwhqgkwhqgwjhqgcwjkg,wdkxwdhwndohwqgwnghwjmhwezhqwqzo
ngrhwrjjhwdnnwjrwdwomxxgkwdkxwrghsqgxwhqgwhm wdwcdhhnzkawtzstpw  mhwzh
edck'hwajjxw.mxaugkh,w gsdmogwhqdhwedowhqgw jjhwhqdhwqdxwdwsjmyngwjrwqzo
hjgowngdtzkawjmhwjrwhqgwrcjkhwgkxwjrwzh;wojwkjewqgwcdzogxwdwqjenwhqdh
rdzcnbwudxgwdw jxb'owqdzcwcdzog,wdkxwxjekwqgwegkhwzkwhqgwxzch,wdkx
cjnngxwhqgcg,wdkxwqgnxwqzowhjgo;wdkxwhqgwsmoozkawqgwxjkgwhqgkwndzxwjigc
dkbhqzkawqgwqdxwgigcwxjkgwycgizjmopw Qgwodzxwojwqzowjekwognrwdrhgcedcxop
 QgwqdxwqgdcxwjnxwOje gccbwQdadkwzkwqzow gohwxdbo,wdkxwqgwodzxwzhwndzx
jigcwqzu,whjj;w mhwZwcgstjkwhqdhwedowojchwjrwyznzkawzhwjk,wudb gp

Drhgcwomyygcwydywhjjtwhqgw.ma,wdkxwodzxwqgwqdxwgkjmaqweqzotbwhqgcg
rjcwhejwxcmktowdkxwjkgwxgnzczmuwhcgugkopw Hqdhwedowdnedbowqzowejcxpw Z
.mxagxwqgwejmnxw gw nzkxwxcmktwzkwd jmhwdkwqjmc,wdkxwhqgkwZwejmnxwohgdn
hqgwtgb,wjcwodewubognrwjmh,wjkgwjcwh'jhqgcpw Qgwxcdktwdkxwxcdkt,wdkx
hmu ngxwxjekwjkwqzow ndktghow bwdkxw b;w mhwnmstwxzxk'hwcmkwubwedbp
 Qgwxzxk'hwajwojmkxwdonggy,w mhwedowmkgdobpw Qgwacjdkgxwdkxwujdkgxwdkx
hqcdoqgxwdcjmkxwhqzowedbwdkxwhqdhwrjcwdwnjkawhzugpw DhwndohwZwajhwoj
onggybwZwsjmnxk'hwtggywubwgbgowjygkwdnnwZwsjmnxwxj,wdkxwojw grjcgwZ
tkjegxweqdhwZwedowd jmhwZwedowojmkxwdonggy,wdkxwhqgwsdkxngw mckzkap

Zwxjk'hwtkjewqjewnjkawZwedowdonggy,w mhwdnnwjrwdwomxxgkwhqgcgwedowdk
dermnwoscgduwdkxwZwedowmypw Hqgcgwedowydywnjjtzkaweznx,wdkxwotzyyzka
dcjmkxwgigcbweqzsqwedbwdkxwbgnnzkawd jmhwokdtgopw Qgwodzxwhqgbwedo
scdenzkawmywqzowngao;wdkxwhqgkwqgwejmnxwazigwdw.muywdkxwoscgdu,wdkxwodb
jkgwqdxw zhwqzuwjkwhqgwsqggt-- mhwZwsjmnxk'hwoggwkjwokdtgopw Qgwohdchgx
dkxwcmkwcjmkxwdkxwcjmkxwhqgwsd zk,wqjnngczkaw“Hdtgwqzuwjrr!whdtgwqzu
jrr!wqg'ow zhzkawugwjkwhqgwkgst!”w Zwkgigcwoggwdwudkwnjjtwojweznxwzkwhqg
gbgopwYcghhbwojjkwqgwedowdnnwrdaagxwjmh,wdkxwrgnnwxjekwydkhzka;whqgkwqg
cjnngxwjigcwdkxwjigcwejkxgcrmnwrdoh,wtzstzkawhqzkaowgigcbweqzsqwedb,
dkxwohcztzkawdkxwacd  zkawdhwhqgwdzcwezhqwqzowqdkxo,wdkxwoscgduzkawdkx
odbzkawhqgcgwedowxgiznowd-qjnxwjrwqzupw Qgwejcgwjmhw bwdkxw b,wdkxwndzx
ohznnwdweqzng,wujdkzkapw Hqgkwqgwndzxwohznngc,wdkxwxzxk'hwudtgwdwojmkxp
 Zwsjmnxwqgdcwhqgwjenowdkxwhqgwejnigowdedbwjrrwzkwhqgwejjxo,wdkxwzh
oggugxwhgccz ngwohznnpw Qgwedowndbzkawjigcw bwhqgwsjckgcpw bwdkxw bwqg
cdzogxwmywydchwedbwdkxwnzohgkgx,wezhqwqzowqgdxwhjwjkgwozxgpw Qgwodbo,
igcbwnje:

“Hcduy--hcduy--hcduy;whqdh'owhqgwxgdx;whcduy--hcduy--hcduy;whqgb'cgwsjuzka
drhgcwug;w mhwZwejk'hwajpw Jq,whqgb'cgwqgcg!wxjk'hwhjmsqwug--xjk'h!wqdkxo
jrr--hqgb'cgwsjnx;wnghwajpw Jq,wnghwdwyjjcwxgiznwdnjkg!”

Hqgkwqgwegkhwxjekwjkwdnnwrjmcowdkxwscdengxwjrr,w gaazkawhqguwhjwnghwqzu
dnjkg,wdkxwqgwcjnngxwqzuognrwmywzkwqzow ndktghwdkxwednnjegxwzkwmkxgcwhqg
jnxwyzkgwhd ng,wohznnwd- gaazka;wdkxwhqgkwqgwegkhwhjwscbzkapw Zwsjmnx
qgdcwqzuwhqcjmaqwhqgw ndktghp

 bwdkxw bwqgwcjnngxwjmhwdkxw.muygxwmywjkwqzowrgghwnjjtzkaweznx,wdkxwqg
oggwugwdkxwegkhwrjcwugpw Qgwsqdogxwugwcjmkxwdkxwcjmkxwhqgwyndsgwezhqwd
sndoy-tkzrg,wsdnnzkawugwhqgwDkagnwjrwXgdhq,wdkxwodbzkawqgwejmnxwtznnwug,
dkxwhqgkwZwsjmnxk'hwsjugwrjcwqzuwkjwujcgpw Zw gaagx,wdkxwhjnxwqzuwZ
edowjknbwQmst;w mhwqgwndmaqgxw_omsq_wdwoscggsqbwndmaq,wdkxwcjdcgxwdkx
smoogx,wdkxwtgyhwjkwsqdozkawugwmypw JksgweqgkwZwhmckgxwoqjchwdkx
xjxagxwmkxgcwqzowdcuwqgwudxgwdwacd wdkxwajhwugw bwhqgw.dstghw gheggkwub
oqjmnxgco,wdkxwZwhqjmaqhwZwedowajkg;w mhwZwonzxwjmhwjrwhqgw.dstghwvmzst
downzaqhkzka,wdkxwodigxwubognrpwYcghhbwojjkwqgwedowdnnwhzcgxwjmh,wdkx
xcjyygxwxjekwezhqwqzow dstwdadzkohwhqgwxjjc,wdkxwodzxwqgwejmnxwcgohwd
uzkmhgwdkxwhqgkwtznnwugpwQgwymhwqzowtkzrgwmkxgcwqzu,wdkxwodzxwqgwejmnx
onggywdkxwaghwohcjka,wdkxwhqgkwqgwejmnxwoggweqjwedoweqjp

Ojwqgwxjlgxwjrrwycghhbwojjkpw  bwdkxw bwZwajhwhqgwjnxwoynzh- jhhjuwsqdzc
dkxwsnmu wmywdowgdobwdowZwsjmnx,wkjhwhjwudtgwdkbwkjzog,wdkxwajhwxjekwhqg
amkpw Zwonzyygxwhqgwcducjxwxjekwzhwhjwudtgwomcgwzhwedownjdxgx,whqgkwZ
ndzxwzhwdscjoowhqgwhmckzyw dccgn,wyjzkhzkawhjedcxowydy,wdkxwoghwxjek
 gqzkxwzhwhjwedzhwrjcwqzuwhjwohzcpw Dkxwqjewonjewdkxwohznnwhqgwhzugwxzx
xcdawdnjkap




SQDYHGCwIZZp

“AZHwmy!w Eqdhwbjmw' jmh?”

Zwjygkgxwubwgbgowdkxwnjjtgxwdcjmkx,whcbzkawhjwudtgwjmhweqgcgwZwedopw Zh
edowdrhgcwomk-my,wdkxwZwqdxw ggkwojmkxwdonggypw Ydywedowohdkxzkawjigcwug
njjtzkawojmcwdkxwozst,whjjpw Qgwodbo:

“Eqdhwbjmwxjzk'wezhqwhqzowamk?”

Zw.mxagxwqgwxzxk'hwtkjewkjhqzkawd jmhweqdhwqgwqdxw ggkwxjzka,wojwZwodbo:

“Ojug jxbwhczgxwhjwaghwzk,wojwZwedowndbzkawrjcwqzup”

“Eqbwxzxk'hwbjmwcjmohwugwjmh?”

“Egnn,wZwhczgxwhj,w mhwZwsjmnxk'h;wZwsjmnxk'hw mxagwbjmp”

“Egnn,wdnnwczaqhpw Xjk'hwohdkxwhqgcgwydndigczkawdnnwxdb,w mhwjmhwezhq
bjmwdkxwoggwzrwhqgcg'owdwrzoqwjkwhqgwnzkgowrjcw cgdtrdohpw Z'nnw gwdnjka
zkwdwuzkmhgp”

Qgwmknjstgxwhqgwxjjc,wdkxwZwsngdcgxwjmhwmywhqgwczigc- dktpw Zwkjhzsgx
ojugwyzgsgowjrwnzu owdkxwomsqwhqzkaowrnjdhzkawxjek,wdkxwdwoyczktnzkawjr
 dct;wojwZwtkjegxwhqgwczigcwqdxw gamkwhjwczogpw ZwcgstjkgxwZwejmnxwqdig
acgdhwhzugowkjewzrwZwedowjigcwdhwhqgwhjekpw Hqgw.mkgwczogwmogxwhjw g
dnedbownmstwrjcwug;w gsdmogwdowojjkwdowhqdhwczogw gazkowqgcgwsjugo
sjcxejjxwrnjdhzkawxjek,wdkxwyzgsgowjrwnjawcdrho--ojughzugowdwxjlgkwnjao
hjaghqgc;wojwdnnwbjmwqdigwhjwxjwzowhjwsdhsqwhqguwdkxwognnwhqguwhjwhqg
ejjx-bdcxowdkxwhqgwodeuznnp

Zwegkhwdnjkawmywhqgw dktwezhqwjkgwgbgwjmhwrjcwydywdkxwh'jhqgcwjkgwjmh
rjcweqdhwhqgwczogwuzaqhwrghsqwdnjkapw Egnn,wdnnwdhwjksgwqgcgwsjugowd
sdkjg;w.mohwdw gdmhb,whjj,wd jmhwhqzchggkwjcwrjmchggkwrjjhwnjka,wczxzka
qzaqwnztgwdwxmstpw Zwoqjhwqgdx-rzcohwjrrwjrwhqgw dktwnztgwdwrcja,
snjhqgowdkxwdnnwjk,wdkxwohcmstwjmhwrjcwhqgwsdkjgpw Zw.mohwgfygshgx
hqgcg'xw gwojug jxbwndbzkawxjekwzkwzh,w gsdmogwygjyngwjrhgkwxjkgwhqdh
hjwrjjnwrjnto,wdkxweqgkwdwsqdywqdxwymnngxwdwotzrrwjmhwujohwhjwzhwhqgb'x
cdzogwmywdkxwndmaqwdhwqzupw  mhwzhwedck'hwojwhqzowhzugpw Zhwedowd
xczrh-sdkjgwomcgwgkjmaq,wdkxwZwsnmu wzkwdkxwydxxngxwqgcwdoqjcgpw Hqzkto
Z,whqgwjnxwudkweznnw gwandxweqgkwqgwoggowhqzo--oqg'owejchqwhgkwxjnndcop
  mhweqgkwZwajhwhjwoqjcgwydywedok'hwzkwozaqhwbgh,wdkxwdowZwedowcmkkzka
qgcwzkhjwdwnzhhngwscggtwnztgwdwamnnb,wdnnwqmkawjigcwezhqwizkgowdkx
eznnjeo,wZwohcmstwdkjhqgcwzxgd:w Zw.mxagxwZ'xwqzxgwqgcwajjx,wdkxwhqgk,
'ohgdxwjrwhdtzkawhjwhqgwejjxoweqgkwZwcmkwjrr,wZ'xwajwxjekwhqgwczigc
d jmhwrzrhbwuzngwdkxwsduywzkwjkgwyndsgwrjcwajjx,wdkxwkjhwqdigwomsqwd
cjmaqwhzugwhcduyzkawjkwrjjhp

Zhwedowycghhbwsnjogwhjwhqgwoqdkhb,wdkxwZwhqjmaqhwZwqgdcxwhqgwjnxwudk
sjuzkawdnnwhqgwhzug;w mhwZwajhwqgcwqzx;wdkxwhqgkwZwjmhwdkxwnjjtgxwdcjmkx
dw mksqwjrweznnjeo,wdkxwhqgcgwedowhqgwjnxwudkwxjekwhqgwydhqwdwyzgsgw.moh
xcdezkawdw gdxwjkwdw zcxwezhqwqzowamkpw Ojwqgwqdxk'hwoggkwdkbhqzkap

EqgkwqgwajhwdnjkawZwedowqdcxwdhwzhwhdtzkawmywdw“hcjh”wnzkgpw Qgwd mogx
ugwdwnzhhngwrjcw gzkawojwonje;w mhwZwhjnxwqzuwZwrgnnwzkwhqgwczigc,wdkx
hqdhwedoweqdhwudxgwugwojwnjkapw ZwtkjegxwqgwejmnxwoggwZwedowegh,wdkx
hqgkwqgwejmnxw gwdotzkawvmgohzjkopw Egwajhwrzigwsdhrzoqwjrrwhqgwnzkgo
dkxwegkhwqjugp

Eqzngwegwndzxwjrrwdrhgcw cgdtrdohwhjwonggywmy,w jhqwjrwmow gzkawd jmh
ejcgwjmh,wZwajhwhjwhqzktzkawhqdhwzrwZwsjmnxwrzfwmywojugwedbwhjwtggywydy
dkxwhqgwezxjewrcjuwhcbzkawhjwrjnnjewug,wzhwejmnxw gwdwsgchdzkgcwhqzka
hqdkwhcmohzkawhjwnmstwhjwaghwrdcwgkjmaqwjrrw grjcgwhqgbwuzoogxwug;wbjm
ogg,wdnnwtzkxowjrwhqzkaowuzaqhwqdyygkpw Egnn,wZwxzxk'hwoggwkjwedbwrjcwd
eqzng,w mhw bwdkxw bwydywcdzogxwmywdwuzkmhgwhjwxczktwdkjhqgcw dccgnwjr
edhgc,wdkxwqgwodbo:

“Dkjhqgcwhzugwdwudkwsjugowd-ycjenzkawcjmkxwqgcgwbjmwcjmohwugwjmh,wbjm
qgdc?wHqdhwudkwedck'hwqgcgwrjcwkjwajjxpw Z'xwdwoqjhwqzupw Kgfhwhzugwbjm
cjmohwugwjmh,wbjmwqgdc?”

Hqgkwqgwxcjyygxwxjekwdkxwegkhwhjwonggywdadzk;w mhweqdhwqgwqdxw ggk
odbzkawazigwugwhqgwigcbwzxgdwZwedkhgxpw Zwodbowhjwubognr,wZwsdkwrzfwzh
kjewojwkj jxbwejk'hwhqzktwjrwrjnnjezkawugp

D jmhwhegnigwj'snjstwegwhmckgxwjmhwdkxwegkhwdnjkawmywhqgw dktpw Hqg
czigcwedowsjuzkawmywycghhbwrdoh,wdkxwnjhowjrwxczrhejjxwajzkaw bwjkwhqg
czogpw bwdkxw bwdnjkawsjugowydchwjrwdwnjawcdrh--kzkgwnjaowrdohwhjaghqgcp
 Egwegkhwjmhwezhqwhqgwotzrrwdkxwhjegxwzhwdoqjcgpw Hqgkwegwqdxwxzkkgcp
Dkb jxbw mhwydywejmnxwdwedzhgxwdkxwoggkwhqgwxdbwhqcjmaq,wojwdowhjwsdhsq
ujcgwohmrr;w mhwhqdhwedck'hwydy'owohbngpw Kzkgwnjaowedowgkjmaqwrjcwjkg
hzug;wqgwumohwoqjigwczaqhwjigcwhjwhjekwdkxwognnpw Ojwqgwnjstgxwugwzkwdkx
hjjtwhqgwotzrr,wdkxwohdchgxwjrrwhjezkawhqgwcdrhwd jmhwqdnr-ydohwhqcggp
 Zw.mxagxwqgwejmnxk'hwsjugw dstwhqdhwkzaqhpw ZwedzhgxwhznnwZwcgstjkgxwqg
qdxwajhwdwajjxwohdch;whqgkwZwjmhwezhqwubwode,wdkxwegkhwhjwejctwjkwhqdh
njawdadzkpw  grjcgwqgwedowh'jhqgcwozxgwjrwhqgwczigcwZwedowjmhwjrwhqg
qjng;wqzuwdkxwqzowcdrhwedow.mohwdwoygstwjkwhqgwedhgcwdedbwjrrwbjkxgcp

Zwhjjtwhqgwodstwjrwsjckwugdnwdkxwhjjtwzhwhjweqgcgwhqgwsdkjgwedowqzx,wdkx
oqjigxwhqgwizkgowdkxw cdksqgowdydchwdkxwymhwzhwzk;whqgkwZwxjkgwhqgwodug
ezhqwhqgwozxgwjrw dsjk;whqgkwhqgweqzotb-.mapw Zwhjjtwdnnwhqgwsjrrggwdkx
omadcwhqgcgwedo,wdkxwdnnwhqgwduumkzhzjk;wZwhjjtwhqgwedxxzka;wZwhjjtwhqg
 mstghwdkxwajmcx;wZwhjjtwdwxzyygcwdkxwdwhzkwsmy,wdkxwubwjnxwodewdkxwhej
 ndktgho,wdkxwhqgwotznnghwdkxwhqgwsjrrgg-yjhpw Zwhjjtwrzoq-nzkgowdkx
udhsqgowdkxwjhqgcwhqzkao--gigcbhqzkawhqdhwedowejchqwdwsgkhpw Zwsngdkgx
jmhwhqgwyndsgpw Zwedkhgxwdkwdfg,w mhwhqgcgwedok'hwdkb,wjknbwhqgwjkgwjmh
dhwhqgwejjxyzng,wdkxwZwtkjegxweqbwZwedowajzkawhjwngdigwhqdhpw Zwrghsqgx
jmhwhqgwamk,wdkxwkjewZwedowxjkgp

Zwqdxwejcgwhqgwacjmkxwdwajjxwxgdnwscdenzkawjmhwjrwhqgwqjngwdkxwxcdaazka
jmhwojwudkbwhqzkaopw OjwZwrzfgxwhqdhwdowajjxwdowZwsjmnxwrcjuwhqgwjmhozxg
 bwosdhhgczkawxmohwjkwhqgwyndsg,weqzsqwsjigcgxwmywhqgwoujjhqkgoowdkxwhqg
odexmohpw HqgkwZwrzfgxwhqgwyzgsgwjrwnjaw dstwzkhjwzhowyndsg,wdkxwymhwhej
cjstowmkxgcwzhwdkxwjkgwdadzkohwzhwhjwqjnxwzhwhqgcg,wrjcwzhwedow gkhwmy
dhwhqdhwyndsgwdkxwxzxk'hwvmzhgwhjmsqwacjmkxpw Zrwbjmwohjjxwrjmcwjcwrzig
rjjhwdedbwdkxwxzxk'hwtkjewzhwedowodegx,wbjmwejmnxk'hwkgigcwkjhzsg
zh;wdkxw gozxgo,whqzowedowhqgw dstwjrwhqgwsd zk,wdkxwzhwedck'hwnztgnb
dkb jxbwejmnxwajwrjjnzkawdcjmkxwhqgcgp

Zhwedowdnnwacdoowsngdcwhjwhqgwsdkjg,wojwZwqdxk'hwngrhwdwhcdstpw Z
rjnnjegxwdcjmkxwhjwoggpw Zwohjjxwjkwhqgw dktwdkxwnjjtgxwjmhwjigcwhqg
czigcpw Dnnwodrgpw OjwZwhjjtwhqgwamkwdkxwegkhwmywdwyzgsgwzkhjwhqgwejjxo,
dkxwedowqmkhzkawdcjmkxwrjcwojugw zcxoweqgkwZwoggwdweznxwyza;wqjaowojjk
egkhweznxwzkwhqguw jhhjuowdrhgcwhqgbwqdxwajhwdedbwrcjuwhqgwycdzczg
rdcuopwZwoqjhwhqzowrgnnjewdkxwhjjtwqzuwzkhjwsduyp

Zwhjjtwhqgwdfgwdkxwoudoqgxwzkwhqgwxjjcpw Zw gdhwzhwdkxwqdstgxwzh
sjkozxgcd ngwd-xjzkawzhpw Zwrghsqgxwhqgwyzawzk,wdkxwhjjtwqzuw dstwkgdcnb
hjwhqgwhd ngwdkxwqdstgxwzkhjwqzowhqcjdhwezhqwhqgwdfg,wdkxwndzxwqzuwxjek
jkwhqgwacjmkxwhjw nggx;wZwodbwacjmkxw gsdmogwzhwedowacjmkx--qdcxwydstgx,
dkxwkjw jdcxopw Egnn,wkgfhwZwhjjtwdkwjnxwodstwdkxwymhwdwnjhwjrw zawcjsto
zkwzh--dnnwZwsjmnxwxcda--dkxwZwohdchgxwzhwrcjuwhqgwyza,wdkxwxcdaagxwzhwhj
hqgwxjjcwdkxwhqcjmaqwhqgwejjxowxjekwhjwhqgwczigcwdkxwxmuygxwzhwzk,wdkx
xjekwzhwomkt,wjmhwjrwozaqhpw Bjmwsjmnxwgdobwoggwhqdhwojughqzkawqdxw ggk
xcdaagxwjigcwhqgwacjmkxpw ZwxzxwezoqwHjuwOdebgcwedowhqgcg;wZwtkjegxwqg
ejmnxwhdtgwdkwzkhgcgohwzkwhqzowtzkxwjrw mozkgoo,wdkxwhqcjewzkwhqgwrdksb
hjmsqgopw Kj jxbwsjmnxwoycgdxwqzuognrwnztgwHjuwOdebgcwzkwomsqwdwhqzkawdo
hqdhp

Egnn,wndohwZwymnngxwjmhwojugwjrwubwqdzc,wdkxw njjxgxwhqgwdfgwajjx,wdkx
ohmstwzhwjkwhqgw dstwozxg,wdkxwonmkawhqgwdfgwzkwhqgwsjckgcpw HqgkwZ
hjjtwmywhqgwyzawdkxwqgnxwqzuwhjwubw cgdohwezhqwubw.dstghw(ojwqgwsjmnxk'h
xczy)whznnwZwajhwdwajjxwyzgsgw gnjewhqgwqjmogwdkxwhqgkwxmuygxwqzuwzkhj
hqgwczigcpw KjewZwhqjmaqhwjrwojughqzkawgnogpw OjwZwegkhwdkxwajhwhqgw da
jrwugdnwdkxwubwjnxwodewjmhwjrwhqgwsdkjg,wdkxwrghsqgxwhqguwhjwhqgwqjmogp
 Zwhjjtwhqgw dawhjweqgcgwzhwmogxwhjwohdkx,wdkxwczyygxwdwqjngwzkwhqg
 jhhjuwjrwzhwezhqwhqgwode,wrjcwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwtkzigowdkxwrjctowjkwhqg
yndsg--ydywxjkgwgigcbhqzkawezhqwqzowsndoy-tkzrgwd jmhwhqgwsjjtzkapw Hqgk
Zwsdcczgxwhqgwodstwd jmhwdwqmkxcgxwbdcxowdscjoowhqgwacdoowdkxwhqcjmaq
hqgweznnjeowgdohwjrwhqgwqjmog,whjwdwoqdnnjewndtgwhqdhwedowrzigwuzngwezxg
dkxwrmnnwjrwcmoqgo--dkxwxmstowhjj,wbjmwuzaqhwodb,wzkwhqgwogdojkpw Hqgcg
edowdwonjmaqwjcwdwscggtwngdxzkawjmhwjrwzhwjkwhqgwjhqgcwozxgwhqdhwegkh
uzngowdedb,wZwxjk'hwtkjeweqgcg,w mhwzhwxzxk'hwajwhjwhqgwczigcpw Hqgwugdn
ozrhgxwjmhwdkxwudxgwdwnzhhngwhcdstwdnnwhqgwedbwhjwhqgwndtgpw Zwxcjyygx
ydy'oweqghohjkgwhqgcgwhjj,wojwdowhjwnjjtwnztgwzhwqdxw ggkwxjkgw b
dsszxgkhpwHqgkwZwhzgxwmywhqgwczywzkwhqgwugdnwodstwezhqwdwohczka,wojwzh
ejmnxk'hwngdtwkjwujcg,wdkxwhjjtwzhwdkxwubwodewhjwhqgwsdkjgwdadzkp

Zhwedowd jmhwxdctwkje;wojwZwxcjyygxwhqgwsdkjgwxjekwhqgwczigcwmkxgcwojug
eznnjeowhqdhwqmkawjigcwhqgw dkt,wdkxwedzhgxwrjcwhqgwujjkwhjwczogpw Z
udxgwrdohwhjwdweznnje;whqgkwZwhjjtwdw zhgwhjwgdh,wdkxw bwdkxw bwndzx
xjekwzkwhqgwsdkjgwhjwoujtgwdwyzygwdkxwndbwjmhwdwyndkpw Zwodbowhjwubognr,
hqgb'nnwrjnnjewhqgwhcdstwjrwhqdhwodstrmnwjrwcjstowhjwhqgwoqjcgwdkxwhqgk
xcdawhqgwczigcwrjcwugpw Dkxwhqgb'nnwrjnnjewhqdhwugdnwhcdstwhjwhqgwndtg
dkxwajw cjeozkawxjekwhqgwscggtwhqdhwngdxowjmhwjrwzhwhjwrzkxwhqgwcj  gco
hqdhwtznngxwugwdkxwhjjtwhqgwhqzkaopw Hqgbwejk'hwgigcwqmkhwhqgwczigcwrjc
dkbhqzkaw mhwubwxgdxwsdcsdoopwHqgb'nnwojjkwaghwhzcgxwjrwhqdh,wdkxwejk'h
 jhqgcwkjwujcgwd jmhwugpw Dnnwczaqh;wZwsdkwohjywdkbeqgcgwZwedkhwhjp
.dstojk'owZondkxwzowajjxwgkjmaqwrjcwug;wZwtkjewhqdhwzondkxwycghhbwegnn,
dkxwkj jxbwgigcwsjugowhqgcgpw DkxwhqgkwZwsdkwydxxngwjigcwhjwhjekwkzaqho,
dkxwonzktwdcjmkxwdkxwyzstwmywhqzkaowZwedkhpw.dstojk'owZondkx'owhqg
yndsgp

Zwedowycghhbwhzcgx,wdkxwhqgwrzcohwhqzkawZwtkjegxwZwedowdonggypw Eqgk
ZwejtgwmywZwxzxk'hwtkjeweqgcgwZwedowrjcwdwuzkmhgpw Zwoghwmywdkxwnjjtgx
dcjmkx,wdwnzhhngwosdcgxpw HqgkwZwcgugu gcgxpw Hqgwczigcwnjjtgxwuzngowdkx
uzngowdscjoopw Hqgwujjkwedowojw czaqhwZwsjmnxwdwsjmkhgxwhqgwxczrhwnjao
hqdhwegkhwd-onzyyzkawdnjka,w ndstwdkxwohznn,wqmkxcgxowjrwbdcxowjmhwrcju
oqjcgpwGigcbhqzkawedowxgdxwvmzgh,wdkxwzhwnjjtgxwndhg,wdkxw_ougnh_wndhgp
BjmwtkjeweqdhwZwugdk--Zwxjk'hwtkjewhqgwejcxowhjwymhwzhwzkp

Zwhjjtwdwajjxwadywdkxwdwohcghsq,wdkxwedow.mohwajzkawhjwmkqzhsqwdkxwohdch
eqgkwZwqgdcxwdwojmkxwdedbwjigcwhqgwedhgcpw Zwnzohgkgxpw YcghhbwojjkwZ
udxgwzhwjmhpw Zhwedowhqdhwxmnnwtzkxwjrwdwcgamndcwojmkxwhqdhwsjugowrcju
jdcowejctzkawzkwcjenjstoweqgkwzh'owdwohznnwkzaqhpw Zwyggygxwjmhwhqcjmaq
hqgweznnjew cdksqgo,wdkxwhqgcgwzhwedo--dwotzrr,wdedbwdscjoowhqgwedhgcp
 Zwsjmnxk'hwhgnnwqjewudkbwedowzkwzhpw Zhwtgyhwd-sjuzka,wdkxweqgkwzhwedo
d cgdohwjrwugwZwoggwhqgcgwedck'hw mhwjkgwudkwzkwzhpw Hqzkt'owZ,wudb g
zh'owydy,whqjmaqwZwedck'hwgfygshzkawqzupw Qgwxcjyygxw gnjewugwezhqwhqg
smccgkh,wdkxw bwdkxw bwqgwsdugwd-oezkazkawmywoqjcgwzkwhqgwgdobwedhgc,
dkxwqgwegkhw bwojwsnjogwZwsjmnxwdwcgdsqgxwjmhwhqgwamkwdkxwhjmsqgxwqzup
 Egnn,wzhw_edo_wydy,womcgwgkjmaq--dkxwoj gc,whjj,w bwhqgwedbwqgwndzxwqzo
jdcop

Zwxzxk'hwnjogwkjwhzugpw HqgwkgfhwuzkmhgwZwedowd-oyzkkzkawxjekwohcgdu
ojrhw mhwvmzstwzkwhqgwoqdxgwjrwhqgw dktpw Zwudxgwhejwuzngwdkxwdwqdnr,
dkxwhqgkwohcmstwjmhwdwvmdchgcwjrwdwuzngwjcwujcgwhjedcxowhqgwuzxxngwjr
hqgwczigc,w gsdmogwycghhbwojjkwZwejmnxw gwydoozkawhqgwrgccbwndkxzka,wdkx
ygjyngwuzaqhwoggwugwdkxwqdznwugpw Zwajhwjmhwdujkaohwhqgwxczrhejjx,wdkx
hqgkwndzxwxjekwzkwhqgw jhhjuwjrwhqgwsdkjgwdkxwnghwqgcwrnjdhp

 Zwndzxwhqgcg,wdkxwqdxwdwajjxwcgohwdkxwdwoujtgwjmhwjrwubwyzyg,wnjjtzka
dedbwzkhjwhqgwotb;wkjhwdwsnjmxwzkwzhpw Hqgwotbwnjjtowgigcwojwxggyweqgk
bjmwndbwxjekwjkwbjmcw dstwzkwhqgwujjkoqzkg;wZwkgigcwtkjegxwzhw grjcgp
 Dkxwqjewrdcwdw jxbwsdkwqgdcwjkwhqgwedhgcwomsqwkzaqho!w Zwqgdcxwygjyng
hdntzkawdhwhqgwrgccbwndkxzkapwZwqgdcxweqdhwhqgbwodzx,whjj--gigcbwejcx
jrwzhpw Jkgwudkwodzxwzhwedowaghhzkawhjedcxowhqgwnjkawxdbowdkxwhqgwoqjch
kzaqhowkjepw H'jhqgcwjkgwodzxw_hqzo_wedck'hwjkgwjrwhqgwoqjchwjkgo,wqg
cgstjkgx--dkxwhqgkwhqgbwndmaqgx,wdkxwqgwodzxwzhwjigcwdadzk,wdkxwhqgb
ndmaqgxwdadzk;whqgkwhqgbwedtgxwmywdkjhqgcwrgnnjewdkxwhjnxwqzu,wdkx
ndmaqgx,w mhwqgwxzxk'hwndmaq;wqgwczyygxwjmhwojughqzkaw czot,wdkxwodzx
nghwqzuwdnjkgpw Hqgwrzcohwrgnnjewodzxwqgw'njegxwhjwhgnnwzhwhjwqzo
jnxwejudk--oqgwejmnxwhqzktwzhwedowycghhbwajjx;w mhwqgwodzxwhqdhwedck'h
kjhqzkawhjwojugwhqzkaowqgwqdxwodzxwzkwqzowhzugpwZwqgdcxwjkgwudkwodbwzh
edowkgdcnbwhqcggwj'snjst,wdkxwqgwqjygxwxdbnzaqhwejmnxk'hwedzhwujcgwhqdk
d jmhwdweggtwnjkagcpw Drhgcwhqdhwhqgwhdntwajhwrmchqgcwdkxwrmchqgcwdedb,
dkxwZwsjmnxk'hwudtgwjmhwhqgwejcxowdkbwujcg;w mhwZwsjmnxwqgdcwhqgwumu ng,
dkxwkjewdkxwhqgkwdwndmaq,whjj,w mhwzhwoggugxwdwnjkawedbowjrrp

Zwedowdedbw gnjewhqgwrgccbwkjepw Zwcjogwmy,wdkxwhqgcgwedow.dstojk'o
Zondkx,wd jmhwhejwuzngwdkxwdwqdnrwxjekwohcgdu,wqgdibwhzu gcgxwdkx
ohdkxzkawmywjmhwjrwhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwczigc,w zawdkxwxdctwdkxwojnzx,wnztg
dwohgdu jdhwezhqjmhwdkbwnzaqhopw Hqgcgwedck'hwdkbwozakowjrwhqgw dcwdh
hqgwqgdx--zhwedowdnnwmkxgcwedhgcwkjep

Zhwxzxk'hwhdtgwugwnjkawhjwaghwhqgcgpw Zwoqjhwydohwhqgwqgdxwdhwdwczyyzka
cdhg,whqgwsmccgkhwedowojwoezrh,wdkxwhqgkwZwajhwzkhjwhqgwxgdxwedhgcwdkx
ndkxgxwjkwhqgwozxgwhjedcxowhqgwZnnzkjzowoqjcgpw Zwcmkwhqgwsdkjgwzkhj
dwxggywxgkhwzkwhqgw dktwhqdhwZwtkjegxwd jmh;wZwqdxwhjwydchwhqgweznnje
 cdksqgowhjwaghwzk;wdkxweqgkwZwudxgwrdohwkj jxbwsjmnxwdwoggkwhqgwsdkjg
rcjuwhqgwjmhozxgp

Zwegkhwmywdkxwoghwxjekwjkwdwnjawdhwhqgwqgdxwjrwhqgwzondkx,wdkxwnjjtgx
jmhwjkwhqgw zawczigcwdkxwhqgw ndstwxczrhejjxwdkxwdedbwjigcwhjwhqgwhjek,
hqcggwuzngwdedb,weqgcgwhqgcgwedowhqcggwjcwrjmcwnzaqhowhezktnzkapw D
ujkohcjmow zawnmu gc-cdrhwedowd jmhwdwuzngwmywohcgdu,wsjuzkawdnjkawxjek,
ezhqwdwndkhgckwzkwhqgwuzxxngwjrwzhpw Zwedhsqgxwzhwsjugwscggyzkawxjek,
dkxweqgkwzhwedowujohwd cgdohwjrweqgcgwZwohjjxwZwqgdcxwdwudkwodb,w“Ohgck
jdco,whqgcg!wqgdigwqgcwqgdxwhjwohd  jdcx!”w Zwqgdcxwhqdhw.mohwdowyndzk
dowzrwhqgwudkwedow bwubwozxgp

Hqgcgwedowdwnzhhngwacdbwzkwhqgwotbwkje;wojwZwohgyygxwzkhjwhqgwejjxo,wdkx
ndzxwxjekwrjcwdwkdyw grjcgw cgdtrdohp




SQDYHGCwIZZZp

HQGwomkwedowmywojwqzaqweqgkwZwedtgxwhqdhwZw.mxagxwzhwedowdrhgcwgzaqh
j'snjstpw Zwndzxwhqgcgwzkwhqgwacdoowdkxwhqgwsjjnwoqdxgwhqzktzkawd jmh
hqzkao,wdkxwrggnzkawcgohgxwdkxwcmhqgcwsjurjchd ngwdkxwodhzorzgxpw Z
sjmnxwoggwhqgwomkwjmhwdhwjkgwjcwhejwqjngo,w mhwujohnbwzhwedow zawhcggo
dnnwd jmh,wdkxwanjjubwzkwhqgcgwdujkaohwhqgupw Hqgcgwedowrcgstngxwyndsgo
jkwhqgwacjmkxweqgcgwhqgwnzaqhwozrhgxwxjekwhqcjmaqwhqgwngdigo,wdkxwhqg
rcgstngxwyndsgowoedyygxwd jmhwdwnzhhng,woqjezkawhqgcgwedowdwnzhhng
 cgglgwmywhqgcgpw Dwsjmyngwjrwovmzccgnowoghwjkwdwnzu wdkxw.d  gcgxwdhwug
igcbwrczgkxnbp

Zwedowyjegcrmnwndlbwdkxwsjurjchd ng--xzxk'hwedkhwhjwaghwmywdkxwsjjt
 cgdtrdohpw Egnn,wZwedowxjlzkawjrrwdadzkweqgkwZwhqzktowZwqgdcowdwxggy
ojmkxwjrw“ jju!”wdedbwmywhqgwczigcpw Zwcjmogowmy,wdkxwcgohowjkwubwgn je
dkxwnzohgko;wycghhbwojjkwZwqgdcowzhwdadzkpw Zwqjyygxwmy,wdkxwegkhwdkx
njjtgxwjmhwdhwdwqjngwzkwhqgwngdigo,wdkxwZwoggwdw mksqwjrwoujtgwndbzka
jkwhqgwedhgcwdwnjkawedbowmy--d jmhwd cgdohwhqgwrgccbpw Dkxwhqgcgwedowhqg
rgccb jdhwrmnnwjrwygjyngwrnjdhzkawdnjkawxjekpw Zwtkjegxweqdhwedowhqg
udhhgcwkjepww“ jju!”wZwoggwhqgweqzhgwoujtgwovmzchwjmhwjrwhqgwrgccb jdh'o
ozxgpw Bjmwogg,whqgbwedowrzczkawsdkkjkwjigcwhqgwedhgc,whcbzkawhjwudtgwub
sdcsdoowsjugwhjwhqgwhjyp

Zwedowycghhbwqmkacb,w mhwzhwedck'hwajzkawhjwxjwrjcwugwhjwohdchwdwrzcg,
 gsdmogwhqgbwuzaqhwoggwhqgwoujtgpw OjwZwoghwhqgcgwdkxwedhsqgxwhqg
sdkkjk-oujtgwdkxwnzohgkgxwhjwhqgw jjupw Hqgwczigcwedowdwuzngwezxgwhqgcg,
dkxwzhwdnedbownjjtowycghhbwjkwdwomuugcwujckzka--ojwZwedowqdizkawdwajjx
gkjmaqwhzugwoggzkawhqguwqmkhwrjcwubwcgudzkxgcowzrwZwjknbwqdxwdw zhgwhj
gdhpwEgnn,whqgkwZwqdyygkgxwhjwhqzktwqjewhqgbwdnedbowymhwvmzstoznigcwzk
njdigowjrw cgdxwdkxwrnjdhwhqguwjrr,w gsdmogwhqgbwdnedbowajwczaqhwhjwhqg
xcjekxgxwsdcsdoowdkxwohjywhqgcgpw Oj,wodbowZ,wZ'nnwtggywdwnjjtjmh,wdkx
zrwdkbwjrwhqgu'owrnjdhzkawdcjmkxwdrhgcwugwZ'nnwazigwhqguwdwoqjepw Z
sqdkagxwhjwhqgwZnnzkjzowgxagwjrwhqgwzondkxwhjwoggweqdhwnmstwZwsjmnx
qdig,wdkxwZwedck'hwxzodyyjzkhgxpw Dw zawxjm ngwnjdrwsjugwdnjka,wdkxwZ
ujohwajhwzhwezhqwdwnjkawohzst,w mhwubwrjjhwonzyygxwdkxwoqgwrnjdhgxwjmh
rmchqgcpw JrwsjmcogwZwedoweqgcgwhqgwsmccgkhwoghwzkwhqgwsnjogohwhjwhqg
oqjcg--Zwtkjegxwgkjmaqwrjcwhqdhpw  mhw bwdkxw bwdnjkawsjugowdkjhqgcwjkg,
dkxwhqzowhzugwZwejkpw Zwhjjtwjmhwhqgwynmawdkxwoqjjtwjmhwhqgwnzhhngwxd 
jrwvmzstoznigc,wdkxwoghwubwhgghqwzkpw Zhwedow“ dtgc'ow cgdx”--eqdhwhqg
vmdnzhbwgdh;wkjkgwjrwbjmcwnje-xjekwsjck-yjkgp

Zwajhwdwajjxwyndsgwdujkaohwhqgwngdigo,wdkxwoghwhqgcgwjkwdwnja,wumksqzka
hqgw cgdxwdkxwedhsqzkawhqgwrgccb- jdh,wdkxwigcbwegnnwodhzorzgxpw Dkx
hqgkwojughqzkawohcmstwugpw Zwodbo,wkjewZwcgstjkwhqgwezxjewjcwhqgwydcojk
jcwojug jxbwycdbgxwhqdhwhqzow cgdxwejmnxwrzkxwug,wdkxwqgcgwzhwqdowajkg
dkxwxjkgwzhpw Ojwhqgcgwdzk'hwkjwxjm hw mhwhqgcgwzowojughqzkawzkwhqdh
hqzka--hqdhwzo,whqgcg'owojughqzkawzkwzhweqgkwdw jxbwnztgwhqgwezxjewjcwhqg
ydcojkwycdbo,w mhwzhwxjk'hwejctwrjcwug,wdkxwZwcgstjkwzhwxjk'hwejctwrjc
jknbw.mohwhqgwczaqhwtzkxp

Zwnzhwdwyzygwdkxwqdxwdwajjxwnjkawoujtg,wdkxwegkhwjkwedhsqzkapw Hqg
rgccb jdhwedowrnjdhzkawezhqwhqgwsmccgkh,wdkxwZwdnnjegxwZ'xwqdigwdwsqdksg
hjwoggweqjwedowd jdcxweqgkwoqgwsjugwdnjka,w gsdmogwoqgwejmnxwsjugwzk
snjog,weqgcgwhqgw cgdxwxzxpw Eqgkwoqg'xwajhwycghhbwegnnwdnjkawxjek
hjedcxowug,wZwymhwjmhwubwyzygwdkxwegkhwhjweqgcgwZwrzoqgxwjmhwhqgw cgdx,
dkxwndzxwxjekw gqzkxwdwnjawjkwhqgw dktwzkwdwnzhhngwjygkwyndsgpw Eqgcg
hqgwnjawrjctgxwZwsjmnxwyggywhqcjmaqp

 bwdkxw bwoqgwsjugwdnjka,wdkxwoqgwxczrhgxwzkwojwsnjogwhqdhwhqgbwsjmnx
dwcmkwjmhwdwyndktwdkxwedntgxwdoqjcgpw Ujohwgigcb jxbwedowjkwhqgw jdhp
 Ydy,wdkxw.mxagwHqdhsqgc,wdkxw goozgwHqdhsqgc,wdkxw.jwQdcygc,wdkxwHju
Odebgc,wdkxwqzowjnxwDmkhwYjnnb,wdkxwOzxwdkxwUdcb,wdkxwyngkhbwujcgp
 Gigcb jxbwedowhdntzkawd jmhwhqgwumcxgc,w mhwhqgwsdyhdzkw cjtgwzkwdkx
odbo:

“Njjtwoqdcy,wkje;whqgwsmccgkhwoghowzkwhqgwsnjogohwqgcg,wdkxwudb gwqg'o
edoqgxwdoqjcgwdkxwajhwhdkangxwdujkaohwhqgw cmoqwdhwhqgwedhgc'owgxagpw Z
qjygwoj,wdkbedbp”

Zwxzxk'hwqjygwojpw Hqgbwdnnwscjexgxwmywdkxwngdkgxwjigcwhqgwcdzno,wkgdcnb
zkwubwrdsg,wdkxwtgyhwohznn,wedhsqzkawezhqwdnnwhqgzcwuzaqhpw Zwsjmnxwogg
hqguwrzcoh-cdhg,w mhwhqgbwsjmnxk'hwoggwugpw Hqgkwhqgwsdyhdzkwomkawjmh:

“Ohdkxwdedb!”wdkxwhqgwsdkkjkwnghwjrrwomsqwdw ndohwczaqhw grjcgwugwhqdh
zhwudxgwugwxggrwezhqwhqgwkjzogwdkxwycghhbwkgdcw nzkxwezhqwhqgwoujtg,wdkx
Zw.mxagxwZwedowajkgpw Zrwhqgb'xwdwqdxwojugw mnnghowzk,wZwcgstjkwhqgb'x
dwajhwhqgwsjcyogwhqgbwedowdrhgcpw Egnn,wZwoggwZwedck'hwqmch,whqdktowhj
ajjxkgoopwHqgw jdhwrnjdhgxwjkwdkxwegkhwjmhwjrwozaqhwdcjmkxwhqgwoqjmnxgc
jrwhqgwzondkxpw Zwsjmnxwqgdcwhqgw jjuzkawkjewdkxwhqgk,wrmchqgcwdkx
rmchqgcwjrr,wdkxw bwdkxw b,wdrhgcwdkwqjmc,wZwxzxk'hwqgdcwzhwkjwujcgp
 Hqgwzondkxwedowhqcggwuzngwnjkapw Zw.mxagxwhqgbwqdxwajhwhjwhqgwrjjh,wdkx
edowazizkawzhwmypw  mhwhqgbwxzxk'hwbghwdweqzngpw Hqgbwhmckgxwdcjmkx
hqgwrjjhwjrwhqgwzondkxwdkxwohdchgxwmywhqgwsqdkkgnwjkwhqgwUzoojmczwozxg,
mkxgcwohgdu,wdkxw jjuzkawjksgwzkwdweqzngwdowhqgbwegkhpw Zwscjoogxwjigc
hjwhqdhwozxgwdkxwedhsqgxwhqgupwEqgkwhqgbwajhwd cgdohwhqgwqgdxwjrwhqg
zondkxwhqgbwvmzhwoqjjhzkawdkxwxcjyygxwjigcwhjwhqgwUzoojmczwoqjcgwdkx
egkhwqjugwhjwhqgwhjekp

ZwtkjegxwZwedowdnnwczaqhwkjepw Kj jxbwgnogwejmnxwsjugwd-qmkhzkawdrhgc
ugpwZwajhwubwhcdyowjmhwjrwhqgwsdkjgwdkxwudxgwugwdwkzsgwsduywzkwhqgwhqzst
ejjxopw Zwudxgwdwtzkxwjrwdwhgkhwjmhwjrwubw ndktghowhjwymhwubwhqzkao
mkxgcwojwhqgwcdzkwsjmnxk'hwaghwdhwhqgupw Zwsdhsqgxwdwsdhrzoqwdkxwqdaangx
qzuwjygkwezhqwubwode,wdkxwhjedcxowomkxjekwZwohdchgxwubwsduywrzcgwdkxwqdx
omyygcpw HqgkwZwoghwjmhwdwnzkgwhjwsdhsqwojugwrzoqwrjcw cgdtrdohp

EqgkwzhwedowxdctwZwoghw bwubwsduywrzcgwoujtzka,wdkxwrggnzkawycghhbwegnn
odhzorzgx;w mhw bwdkxw bwzhwajhwojchwjrwnjkgojug,wdkxwojwZwegkhwdkxwogh
jkwhqgw dktwdkxwnzohgkgxwhjwhqgwsmccgkhwoedoqzkawdnjka,wdkxwsjmkhgxwhqg
ohdcowdkxwxczrhwnjaowdkxwcdrhowhqdhwsjugwxjek,wdkxwhqgkwegkhwhjw gx;
hqgcgwdzk'hwkjw ghhgcwedbwhjwymhwzkwhzugweqgkwbjmwdcgwnjkgojug;wbjm
sdk'hwohdbwoj,wbjmwojjkwaghwjigcwzhp

Dkxwojwrjcwhqcggwxdbowdkxwkzaqhopw Kjwxzrrgcgksg--.mohwhqgwodugwhqzkap
 mhwhqgwkgfhwxdbwZwegkhwgfynjczkawdcjmkxwxjekwhqcjmaqwhqgwzondkxpw Zwedo
 joowjrwzh;wzhwdnnw gnjkagxwhjwug,wojwhjwodb,wdkxwZwedkhgxwhjwtkje
dnnwd jmhwzh;w mhwudzknbwZwedkhgxwhjwymhwzkwhqgwhzugpw Zwrjmkxwyngkhb
ohcde gcczgo,wczygwdkxwyczug;wdkxwacggkwomuugcwacdygo,wdkxwacggk
cdl gcczgo;wdkxwhqgwacggkw ndst gcczgowedow.mohw gazkkzkawhjwoqjepw Hqgb
ejmnxwdnnwsjugwqdkxbw bwdkxw b,wZw.mxagxp

Egnn,wZwegkhwrjjnzkawdnjkawzkwhqgwxggywejjxowhznnwZw.mxagxwZwedck'h
rdcwrcjuwhqgwrjjhwjrwhqgwzondkxpw Zwqdxwubwamkwdnjka,w mhwZwqdxk'hwoqjh
kjhqzka;wzhwedowrjcwycjhgshzjk;whqjmaqhwZwejmnxwtznnwojugwadugwkzaq
qjugpwD jmhwhqzowhzugwZwuzaqhbwkgdcwohgyygxwjkwdwajjx-ozlgxwokdtg,
dkxwzhwegkhwonzxzkawjrrwhqcjmaqwhqgwacdoowdkxwrnjegco,wdkxwZwdrhgc
zh,whcbzkawhjwaghwdwoqjhwdhwzhpwZwsnzyygxwdnjka,wdkxwdnnwjrwdwomxxgkwZ
 jmkxgxwczaqhwjkwhjwhqgwdoqgowjrwdwsduywrzcgwhqdhwedowohznnwoujtzkap

Ubwqgdchw.muygxwmywdujkaohwubwnmkaopw Zwkgigcwedzhgxwrjcwhjwnjjt
rmchqgc,w mhwmksjstgxwubwamkwdkxwegkhwokgdtzkaw dstwjkwubwhzyhjgowdo
rdohwdowgigcwZwsjmnxpw GigcbwkjewdkxwhqgkwZwohjyygxwdwogsjkxwdujkaohwhqg
hqzstwngdigowdkxwnzohgkgx,w mhwubw cgdhqwsjugwojwqdcxwZwsjmnxk'hwqgdc
kjhqzkawgnogpw Zwonmktwdnjkawdkjhqgcwyzgsgwrmchqgc,whqgkwnzohgkgxwdadzk;
dkxwojwjk,wdkxwojwjkpw ZrwZwoggwdwohmuy,wZwhjjtwzhwrjcwdwudk;wzrwZwhcjx
jkwdwohzstwdkxw cjtgwzh,wzhwudxgwugwrggnwnztgwdwygcojkwqdxwsmhwjkgwjrwub
 cgdhqowzkwhejwdkxwZwjknbwajhwqdnr,wdkxwhqgwoqjchwqdnr,whjjp

EqgkwZwajhwhjwsduywZwedck'hwrggnzkawigcbw cdoq,whqgcgwedck'hwumsqwodkx
zkwubwscde;w mhwZwodbo,whqzowdzk'hwkjwhzugwhjw gwrjjnzkawdcjmkxpw OjwZ
ajhwdnnwubwhcdyowzkhjwubwsdkjgwdadzkwojwdowhjwqdigwhqguwjmhwjrwozaqh,
dkxwZwymhwjmhwhqgwrzcgwdkxwosdhhgcgxwhqgwdoqgowdcjmkxwhjwnjjtwnztgwdk
jnxwndohwbgdc'owsduy,wdkxwhqgkwsnmu wdwhcggp

ZwcgstjkwZwedowmywzkwhqgwhcggwhejwqjmco;w mhwZwxzxk'hwoggwkjhqzka,
Zwxzxk'hwqgdcwkjhqzka--Zwjknbw_hqjmaqh_wZwqgdcxwdkxwoggkwdowumsqwdowd
hqjmodkxwhqzkaopw Egnn,wZwsjmnxk'hwohdbwmywhqgcgwrjcgigc;wojwdhwndohwZ
ajhwxjek,w mhwZwtgyhwzkwhqgwhqzstwejjxowdkxwjkwhqgwnjjtjmhwdnnwhqg
hzugpwDnnwZwsjmnxwaghwhjwgdhwedow gcczgowdkxweqdhwedowngrhwjigcwrcju
 cgdtrdohp

 bwhqgwhzugwzhwedowkzaqhwZwedowycghhbwqmkacbpw Ojweqgkwzhwedowajjx
dkxwxdctwZwonzxwjmhwrcjuwoqjcgw grjcgwujjkczogwdkxwydxxngxwjigcwhjwhqg
Znnzkjzow dkt--d jmhwdwvmdchgcwjrwdwuzngpw Zwegkhwjmhwzkwhqgwejjxowdkx
sjjtgxwdwomyygc,wdkxwZwqdxwd jmhwudxgwmywubwuzkxwZwejmnxwohdbwhqgcg
dnnwkzaqhweqgkwZwqgdcwdw_ynmktghb-ynmkt,wynmktghb-ynmkt_,wdkxwodbo
hjwubognr,wqjcogowsjuzka;wdkxwkgfhwZwqgdcwygjyng'owijzsgopw Zwajh
gigcbhqzkawzkhjwhqgwsdkjgwdowvmzstwdowZwsjmnx,wdkxwhqgkwegkhwscggyzka
hqcjmaqwhqgwejjxowhjwoggweqdhwZwsjmnxwrzkxwjmhpw Zwqdxk'hwajhwrdcweqgkwZ
qgdcwdwudkwodb:

“Egw ghhgcwsduywqgcgwzrwegwsdkwrzkxwdwajjxwyndsg;whqgwqjcogowzowd jmh
 gdhwjmhpw Ngh'ownjjtwdcjmkxp”

Zwxzxk'hwedzh,w mhwoqjigxwjmhwdkxwydxxngxwdedbwgdobpw Zwhzgxwmywzkwhqg
jnxwyndsg,wdkxwcgstjkgxwZwejmnxwonggywzkwhqgwsdkjgp

Zwxzxk'hwonggywumsqpw Zwsjmnxk'h,wojugqje,wrjcwhqzktzkapw Dkxwgigcbwhzug
ZwedtgxwmywZwhqjmaqhwojug jxbwqdxwugw bwhqgwkgstpw Ojwhqgwonggywxzxk'h
xjwugwkjwajjxpw  bwdkxw bwZwodbowhjwubognr,wZwsdk'hwnzigwhqzowedb;wZ'u
d-ajzkawhjwrzkxwjmhweqjwzhwzowhqdh'owqgcgwjkwhqgwzondkxwezhqwug;wZ'nn
rzkxwzhwjmhwjcw mohpw Egnn,wZwrgnhw ghhgcwczaqhwjrrp

OjwZwhjjtwubwydxxngwdkxwonzxwjmhwrcjuwoqjcgw.mohwdwohgywjcwhej,wdkx
hqgkwnghwhqgwsdkjgwxcjywdnjkawxjekwdujkaohwhqgwoqdxjeopw Hqgwujjkwedo
oqzkzka,wdkxwjmhozxgwjrwhqgwoqdxjeowzhwudxgwzhwujohwdownzaqhwdowxdbp
 Zwyjtgxwdnjkawegnnwjkwhjwdkwqjmc,wgigcbhqzkawohznnwdowcjstowdkxwojmkx
donggypwEgnn,w bwhqzowhzugwZwedowujohwxjekwhjwhqgwrjjhwjrwhqgwzondkxpw D
nzhhngwczyynb,wsjjnw cgglgw gamkwhjw nje,wdkxwhqdhwedowdowajjxwdowodbzka
hqgwkzaqhwedowd jmhwxjkgpw Zwazigwqgcwdwhmckwezhqwhqgwydxxngwdkxw cmka
qgcwkjogwhjwoqjcg;whqgkwZwajhwubwamkwdkxwonzyygxwjmhwdkxwzkhjwhqgwgxag
jrwhqgwejjxopw Zwodhwxjekwhqgcgwjkwdwnja,wdkxwnjjtgxwjmhwhqcjmaqwhqg
ngdigopw Zwoggwhqgwujjkwajwjrrwedhsq,wdkxwhqgwxdctkgoow gazkwhjw ndktgh
hqgwczigcpw mhwzkwdwnzhhngweqzngwZwoggwdwydngwohcgdtwjigcwhqgwhcgghjyo,
dkxwtkjegxwhqgwxdbwedowsjuzkapw OjwZwhjjtwubwamkwdkxwonzyygxwjrrwhjedcxo
eqgcgwZwqdxwcmkwdscjoowhqdhwsduywrzcg,wohjyyzkawgigcbwuzkmhgwjcwhej
hjwnzohgkpw  mhwZwqdxk'hwkjwnmstwojugqje;wZwsjmnxk'hwogguwhjwrzkxwhqg
yndsgpw  mhw bwdkxw b,womcgwgkjmaq,wZwsdhsqgxwdwanzuyogwjrwrzcgwdedb
hqcjmaqwhqgwhcggopw Zwegkhwrjcwzh,wsdmhzjmowdkxwonjepw  bwdkxw bwZwedo
snjogwgkjmaqwhjwqdigwdwnjjt,wdkxwhqgcgwndzxwdwudkwjkwhqgwacjmkxpw Zh
ujohwazigwugwhqgwrdk-hjxopwQgwqdxwdw ndktghwdcjmkxwqzowqgdx,wdkxwqzo
qgdxwedowkgdcnbwzkwhqgwrzcgpw Zwoghwhqgcgw gqzkxwdwsnmuywjrw moqgo,wzk
d jmhwozfwrjjhwjrwqzu,wdkxwtgyhwubwgbgowjkwqzuwohgdxbpw Zhwedowaghhzka
acdbwxdbnzaqhwkjepw Ycghhbwojjkwqgwadyygxwdkxwohcghsqgxwqzuognrwdkxwqjig
jrrwhqgw ndktgh,wdkxwzhwedowUzoowEdhojk'ow.zu!w Zw ghwZwedowandxwhjwogg
qzupw Zwodbo:

“Qgnnj,w.zu!”wdkxwotzyygxwjmhp

Qgw jmksgxwmywdkxwohdcgxwdhwugweznxpw Hqgkwqgwxcjyowxjekwjkwqzowtkggo,
dkxwymhowqzowqdkxowhjaghqgcwdkxwodbo:

“Xjdk'wqmchwug--xjk'h!w Zwqdzk'hwgigcwxjkgwkjwqdcuwhjwdwaqjo'pw Zwdneml
nztgxwxgdxwygjyng,wgkwxjkgwdnnwZwsjmnxwrjcw'gupw Bjmwajwgkwazhwzkwxg
czigcwdazk,weqdqwbjmw 'njkao,wgkwxjdk'wxjwkmrrkwhjwJngw.zu,w'dhw'ml
denmlwbj'wrcgk'p”

Egnn,wZwedck'hwnjkawudtzkawqzuwmkxgcohdkxwZwedck'hwxgdxpw Zwedowgigcwoj
andxwhjwoggw.zupw Zwedck'hwnjkgojugwkjepw ZwhjnxwqzuwZwedck'hwdrcdzxwjr
_qzu_whgnnzkawhqgwygjyngweqgcgwZwedopw Zwhdntgxwdnjka,w mhwqgwjknbwogh
hqgcgwdkxwnjjtgxwdhwug;wkgigcwodzxwkjhqzkapw HqgkwZwodbo:

“Zh'owajjxwxdbnzaqhpw Ng'owaghw cgdtrdohpw Udtgwmywbjmcwsduywrzcgwajjxp”

“Eqdh'owxgwmogwgcwudtzk'wmywxgwsduywrzcgwhjwsjjtwohcde czgowgkwozsq
hcmst?w mhwbjmwajhwdwamk,wqdzk'hwbjm?w Xgkwegwtzkwazhwomurkw ghhgcwxgk
ohcde czgop”

“Ohcde gcczgowdkxwomsqwhcmst,”wZwodbopww“Zowhqdhweqdhwbjmwnzigwjk?”

“Zwsjmnxk'wazhwkmrrkwgnog,”wqgwodbop

“Eqb,wqjewnjkawbjmw ggkwjkwhqgwzondkx,w.zu?”

“Zwsjugwqgdqwxgwkzaqhwdchgcwbjm'owtznngxp”

“Eqdh,wdnnwhqdhwhzug?”

“Bgo--zkxggxbp”

“Dkxwdzk'hwbjmwqdxwkjhqzkaw mhwhqdhwtzkxwjrwcm  dagwhjwgdh?”

“Kj,wodq--kmrrkwgnogp”

“Egnn,wbjmwumohw gwujohwohdcigx,wdzk'hwbjm?”

“Zwcgst'kwZwsjmnxwgdhwdwqjoopw ZwhqzktwZwsjmnxpwQjewnjkawbjmw gkwjkwxg
zondk'?”

“OzksgwhqgwkzaqhwZwajhwtznngxp”

“Kj!w E'b,weqdhwqdowbjmwnzigxwjk?w  mhwbjmwajhwdwamkpw Jq,wbgo,wbjmwajh
dwamkpw Xdh'owajjxpw KjewbjmwtznnwomurkwgkwZ'nnwudtgwmywxgwrzcgp”

Ojwegwegkhwjigcwhjweqgcgwhqgwsdkjgwedo,wdkxweqzngwqgw mznhwdwrzcgwzk
dwacdoobwjygkwyndsgwdujkaohwhqgwhcggo,wZwrghsqgxwugdnwdkxw dsjkwdkx
sjrrgg,wdkxwsjrrgg-yjhwdkxwrcbzka-ydk,wdkxwomadcwdkxwhzkwsmyo,wdkxwhqg
kzaagcwedowoghw dstwsjkozxgcd ng,w gsdmogwqgwcgstjkgxwzhwedowdnnwxjkg
ezhqwezhsqscdrhpwZwsdhsqgxwdwajjxw zawsdhrzoq,whjj,wdkxw.zuwsngdkgxwqzu
ezhqwqzowtkzrg,wdkxwrczgxwqzup

Eqgkw cgdtrdohwedowcgdxbwegwnjnngxwjkwhqgwacdoowdkxwgdhwzhwoujtzkawqjhp
.zuwndzxwzhwzkwezhqwdnnwqzowuzaqh,wrjcwqgwedowujohwd jmhwohdcigxpw Hqgk
eqgkwegwqdxwajhwycghhbwegnnwohmrrgx,wegwndzxwjrrwdkxwndlzgxpw  bwdkxw b
.zuwodbo:

“ mhwnjjtbwqgcg,wQmst,weqjwemlwzhwxdhw'mlwtznngxwzkwxdhwoqdkhbwgrwzh
edck'hwbjm?”

HqgkwZwhjnxwqzuwhqgweqjngwhqzka,wdkxwqgwodzxwzhwedowoudchpw QgwodzxwHju
Odebgcwsjmnxk'hwaghwmywkjw ghhgcwyndkwhqdkweqdhwZwqdxpw HqgkwZwodbo:

“Qjewxjwbjmwsjugwhjw gwqgcg,w.zu,wdkxwqje'xwbjmwaghwqgcg?”

Qgwnjjtgxwycghhbwmkgdob,wdkxwxzxk'hwodbwkjhqzkawrjcwdwuzkmhgpw Hqgkwqg
odbo:

“Udb gwZw ghhgcwkjhwhgnnp”

“Eqb,w.zu?”

“Egnn,wxgb'owcgdojkopw  mhwbjmwejmnxk'whgnnwjkwugwgrwZwmlwhjwhgnnwbjm,
ejmnxwbjm,wQmst?”

“ ndugxwzrwZwejmnx,w.zup”

“Egnn,wZw 'nzgigwbjm,wQmstpw Z--_Zwcmkwjrr_p”

“.zu!”

“ mhwuzkx,wbjmwodzxwbjmwejmnxk'whgnn--bjmwtkjewbjmwodzxwbjmwejmnxk'whgnn,
Qmstp”

“Egnn,wZwxzxpw ZwodzxwZwejmnxk'h,wdkxwZ'nnwohzstwhjwzhpw Qjkgohw_zk.mk_,
Zweznnpw Ygjyngwejmnxwsdnnwugwdwnje-xjekwD jnzhzjkzohwdkxwxgoyzogwugwrjc
tggyzkawumu-- mhwhqdhwxjk'hwudtgwkjwxzrrgcgksgpw Zwdzk'hwd-ajzkawhjwhgnn,
dkxwZwdzk'hwd-ajzkaw dstwhqgcg,wdkbedbopw Oj,wkje,wng'owtkjewdnnwd jmh
zhp”

“Egnn,wbjmwogg,wzhw'mlwxzowedbpw Jngwuzoomo--xdh'owUzoowEdhojk--oqgwygsto
jkwugwdnnwxgwhzug,wgkwhcgdhowugwyjjhbwcjmaq,w mhwoqgwdenmlwodzxwoqg
ejmnxk'wognnwugwxjekwhjwJcngdkopw  mhwZwkjhzsgxwxgbwemlwdwkzaagcwhcdxgc
cjmk'wxgwyndsgwsjkozxd ngwndhgnb,wgkwZw gazkwhjwazhwjkgdobpw Egnn,wjkg
kzaqhwZwscggyowhjwxgwxj'wyjjhbwndhg,wgkwxgwxj'wedck'hwvmzhgwoqgh,wgkwZ
qgdcwjnxwuzoomowhgnnwxgwezxxgcwoqgwaebkgwhjwognnwugwxjekwhjwJcngdko,w mh
oqgwxzxk'wedkhwhj,w mhwoqgwsjmnxwazhwgzaqhwqmkx'xwxjnndcowrjcwug,wgkwzh
'mlwozsqwdw zawohdstwj'wujkgbwoqgwsjmnxk'wcgozo'pw Xgwezxxgcwoqgwhcbwhj
azhwqgcwhjwodbwoqgwejmnxk'wxjwzh,w mhwZwkgigcwedzhgxwhjwqgdcwxgwcgo'pw Z
nzhwjmhwuzaqhbwvmzst,wZwhgnnwbjmp

“Zwhmstwjmhwgkwoqzkwxjekwxgwqznn,wgkw'oygswhjwohgdnwdwotzrhw'njkawxg
oqj'woju'gcow' jigwxgwhjek,w mhwxgbwemlwygjyngwd-ohzcczkawbzh,wojwZwqzx
zkwxgwjngwhmu ng-xjekwsjjygc-oqjywjkwxgw dktwhjwedzhwrjcwgigcb jxbwhj
ajw'edbpwEgnn,wZwemlwxdqwdnnwkzaqhpw Xgbwemlwojug jxbwcjmk'wdnnwxgwhzugp
w'Njkaw' jmhwozfwzkwxgwudekzk'wotzrhow gazkwhjwajw b,wgkw' jmhwgzaqhwgc
kzkgwgigcbwotzrhwxdhwegkhw'njkawemlwhdntzk'w' jmhwqjewbj'wydywsjugwjigc
hjwxgwhjekwgkwodbwbjm'owtznngxpw Xgogwndo'wotzrhowemlwrmnnwj'wndxzgowgk
agknugkwd-ajzk'wjigcwrjcwhjwoggwxgwyndsgpw Ojughzugowxgb'xwymnnwmywdh
xgwoqj'wgkwhdtgwdwcgo'w 'rj'wxgbwohdchgxwdscjoh,wojw bwxgwhdntwZwajhwhj
tkjewdnnw' jmhwxgwtznnzk'pw Zw'mlwyjegcrmnwojccbwbjm'owtznngx,wQmst,w mh
Zwdzk'hwkjwuj'wkjep

“Zwndzxwxdqwmkxgcwxgwoqdizk'owdnnwxdbpw Zw'mlwqmkacb,w mhwZwedck'h
drgdcx;w gtdogwZwtkjegxwjngwuzoomowgkwxgwezxxgcwemlwajzk'whjwohdchwhj
xgwsduy-uggh'k'wczaqhwdchgcw cgdtrdo'wgkw gwajkgwdnnwxdb,wgkwxgbwtkjeo
Zwajgowjrrwezxwxgwsdhhngw' jmhwxdbnzaqh,wojwxgbwejmnxk'w'oygswhjwoggwug
cjmk'wxgwyndsg,wgkwojwxgbwejmnxk'wuzoowugwhgnnwdchgcwxdctwzkwxgwgigkzk'p
Xgwbmhqgcwogcidkhowejmnxk'wuzoowug,wtdogwxgb'xwoqzkwjmhwgkwhdtgwqjnzxdb
ojjkwdowxgwjngwrjntow'mlwjmh'kwxgwedbp

“Egnn,weqgkwzhwsjugwxdctwZwhmstwjmhwmywxgwczigcwcjdx,wgkwegkhw' jmhwhej
uzngwgcwujcgwhjweqdqwxgbwedck'hwkjwqjmogopw Z'xwudxgwmywubwuzkgw' jmh
eqdhwZ'owdaebkgwhjwxjpw Bjmwogg,wgrwZwtgy'wjkwhcbzk'whjwazhwdedbwdrjjh,
xgwxjaow'mxwhcdstwug;wgrwZwohjngwdwotzrhwhjwscjoowjigc,wxgb'xwuzoowxdh
otzrh,wbjmwogg,wgkwxgb'xwtkjew' jmhweqdqwZ'xwndk'wjkwxgwbmhqgcwozxg,wgk
eqdqwhjwyzstwmywubwhcdstpw OjwZwodbo,wdwcdrrwzoweqdhwZ'owdchgc;wzhwxjdk'
_udtg_wkjwhcdstp

“Zwoggwdwnzaqhwd-sjuzk'wcjmk'wxgwy'zkhw bug b,wojwZwedxg'wzkwgkwoqjig'
dwnjawdqgdxwj'wugwgkwoemuwujcg'kwqdnrwedbwdscjohwxgwczigc,wgkwajhwzk
'ujkaohwxgwxczrh-ejjx,wgkwtgy'wubwqgdxwxjekwnje,wgkwtzkxgcwoemuwdazkwxg
smccgkhwhgnnwxgwcdrrwsjugwdnjkapw XgkwZwoemuwhjwxgwohgckwmiwzhwgkwhmst
d-qjnhpw Zhwsnjmxgxwmywgkw'mlwyjjhbwxdctwrjcwdwnzhhngweqzngpw OjwZwsnmu 
mywgkwndzxwxjekwjkwxgwyndktopw Xgwugkw'mlwdnnw'edbwbjkxgcwzkwxgwuzxxng,
eqdqwxgwndkhgckwemlpw Xgwczigcwemlwd-czozk',wgkwxgbwemlwdwajjxwsmccgkh;
ojwZwcgst'k'xw'dhw bwrj'wzkwxgwudekzk'wZ'xw gwhegkhb-rzigwuzngwxjekwxg
czigc,wgkwxgkwZ'xwonzywzkw.zow 'rj'wxdbnzaqhwgkwoezuwdoqj',wgkwhdtgwhj
xgwejjxowjkwxgwZnnzkjzowozxgp

“ mhwZwxzxk'wqdigwkjwnmstpw Eqgkwegw'mlwujo'wxjekwhjwxgwqgdxwgcwxg
zondk'wdwudkw gazkwhjwsjugwdrhwezxwxgwndkhgck,wZwoggwzhwedck'hwkjwmog
rgcwhjwedzh,wojwZwonzxwjigc jdcxwgkwohcmstwjmhwrgcwxgwzondk'pw Egnn,wZ
qdxwdwkjhzjkwZwsjmnxwndk'wujo'wdkbeqgco,w mhwZwsjmnxk'h-- dktwhjjw nmrrp
 Zw'mlwujo'whjwxgwrjjhwgcwxgwzondk'w 'rj'wZwrjmkx'wdwajjxwyndsgpw Zwegkh
zkhjwxgwejjxowgkw.gxagxwZwejmnxk'wrjjnwezxwcdrrowkjwuj',wnjkawdowxgb
ujigwxgwndkhgckwcjmk'wojpw Zwqdxwubwyzygwgkwdwynmawgcwxja-nga,wgkwojug
udhsqgowzkwubwsdy,wgkwxgbwedck'hwegh,wojwZw'mlwdnnwczaqhp”

“Dkxwojwbjmwdzk'hwqdxwkjwugdhwkjcw cgdxwhjwgdhwdnnwhqzowhzug?w Eqb
xzxk'hwbjmwaghwumx-hmctngo?”

“Qjewbjmwaebkgwhjwazhw'u?w Bjmwsdk'hwonzywmywjkwmuwgkwacd wmu;wgkwqje'o
dw jxbwaebkgwhjwqzhwmuwezxwdwcjst?w Qjewsjmnxwdw jxbwxjwzhwzkwxgwkzaqh?
 GkwZwedck'hwaebkgwhjwoqjewubogrwjkwxgw dktwzkwxgwxdbhzugp”

“Egnn,whqdh'owojpw Bjm'igwqdxwhjwtggywzkwhqgwejjxowdnnwhqgwhzug,wjr
sjmcogpwXzxwbjmwqgdcw'guwoqjjhzkawhqgwsdkkjk?”

“Jq,wbgopw Zwtkjegxwxgbwedowdchgcwbjmpw Zwoggwmuwajw bwqgdq--edhsqgxwmu
hqjjwxgw moqgop”

Ojugwbjmkaw zcxowsjugwdnjka,wrnbzkawdwbdcxwjcwhejwdhwdwhzugwdkx
nzaqhzkapw.zuwodzxwzhwedowdwozakwzhwedowajzkawhjwcdzkpw Qgwodzxwzhwedo
dwozakweqgkwbjmkawsqzstgkowrngewhqdhwedb,wdkxwojwqgwcgstjkgxwzhwedowhqg
odugwedbweqgkwbjmkaw zcxowxjkgwzhpw Zwedowajzkawhjwsdhsqwojugwjrwhqgu,
 mhw.zuwejmnxk'hwnghwugpw Qgwodzxwzhwedowxgdhqpw Qgwodzxwqzowrdhqgcwndzx
uzaqhbwozstwjksg,wdkxwojugwjrwhqguwsdhsqgxwdw zcx,wdkxwqzowjnxwacdkkb
odzxwqzowrdhqgcwejmnxwxzg,wdkxwqgwxzxp

Dkxw.zuwodzxwbjmwumohk'hwsjmkhwhqgwhqzkaowbjmwdcgwajzkawhjwsjjtwrjc
xzkkgc,w gsdmogwhqdhwejmnxw czkaw dxwnmstpw Hqgwodugwzrwbjmwoqjjtwhqg
hd ng-snjhqwdrhgcwomkxjekpw Dkxwqgwodzxwzrwdwudkwjekgxwdw ggqzig
dkxwhqdhwudkwxzgx,whqgw ggowumohw gwhjnxwd jmhwzhw grjcgwomk-mywkgfh
ujckzka,wjcwgnogwhqgw ggowejmnxwdnnwegdtgkwxjekwdkxwvmzhwejctwdkxwxzgp
 .zuwodzxw ggowejmnxk'hwohzkawzxzjho;w mhwZwxzxk'hw gnzgigwhqdh,w gsdmog
Zwqdxwhczgxwhqguwnjhowjrwhzugowubognr,wdkxwhqgbwejmnxk'hwohzkawugp

Zwqdxwqgdcxwd jmhwojugwjrwhqgogwhqzkaow grjcg,w mhwkjhwdnnwjrwhqgupw .zu
tkjegxwdnnwtzkxowjrwozakopw Qgwodzxwqgwtkjegxwujohwgigcbhqzkapw Zwodzx
zhwnjjtgxwhjwugwnztgwdnnwhqgwozakowedowd jmhw dxwnmst,wdkxwojwZwdotgx
qzuwzrwhqgcgwedck'hwdkbwajjx-nmstwozakopw Qgwodbo:

“Uzaqhbwrge--dk'w_xgb_wdzk'hwkjwmogwhjwdw jxbpw Eqdhwbjmwedkhwhjwtkje
eqgkwajjxwnmst'owd-sjuzk'wrjc?w Edkhwhjwtggywzhwjrr?”w Dkxwqgwodzx:ww“Gr
bjm'owajhwqdzcbwdcuowgkwdwqdzcbw cgdo',wzh'owdwozakwxdhwbjm'owdaebkg
hjw gwczsqpwEgnn,wxgb'owojugwmogwzkwdwozakwnztgwxdh,w'tdogwzh'owojwrmc
dqgdxpwBjmwogg,wudb gwbjm'owajhwhjw gwyj'wdwnjkawhzugwrmoh,wgkwojwbjm
uzaqhwazhwxzosjmcdag'wgkwtznnwbj'ogrw'rwbjmwxzxk'wtkjew bwxgwozakwxdh
bjmwaebkgwhjw gwczsqw bug bp”

“Qdigwbjmwajhwqdzcbwdcuowdkxwdwqdzcbw cgdoh,w.zu?”

“Eqdh'owxgwmogwhjwdfwxdhwvmgohzjk?w Xjk'hwbjmwoggwZwqdo?”

“Egnn,wdcgwbjmwczsq?”

“Kj,w mhwZw gkwczsqwemkoh,wdkxwaebkgwhjw gwczsqwdazkpw EmkohwZwqdx
rjhggkwxjnndco,w mhwZwhmstwhjwoygsdndh'k',wgkwajhw mohgxwjmhp”

“Eqdhwxzxwbjmwoygsmndhgwzk,w.zu?”

“Egnn,wrmohwZwhdstngxwohjstp”

“Eqdhwtzkxwjrwohjst?”

“Eqb,wnzigwohjst--sdhhng,wbjmwtkjepw Zwymhwhgkwxjnndcowzkwdwsjepw  mh
Zwdzk'waebkgwhjwcgotwkjwuj'wujkgbwzkwohjstpw Xgwsjewmyw'k'wxzgxwjkwub
qdk'op”

“Ojwbjmwnjohwhqgwhgkwxjnndcop”

“Kj,wZwxzxk'hwnjogwzhwdnnpw Zwjk'bwnjo'w' jmhwkzkgwjrwzhpw Zwojngwxg
qzxgwgkwhdnngcwrjcwdwxjnndcwgkwhgkwsgkhop”

“Bjmwqdxwrzigwxjnndcowdkxwhgkwsgkhowngrhpw Xzxwbjmwoygsmndhgwdkbwujcg?”

“Bgopw Bjmwtkjewhqdhwjkg-ndzaagxwkzaagcwxdhw 'njkaowhjwjnxwUzohj
 cdxzoq?wEgnn,wqgwojhwmywdw dkt,wgkwodbwdkb jxbwxdhwymhwzkwdwxjnndc
ejmnxwazhwrj'wxjnndcowuj'wdhwxgwgk'wgcwxgwbgdcpw Egnn,wdnnwxgwkzaagco
egkhwzk,w mhwxgbwxzxk'hwqdigwumsqpw Zwemlwxgwjk'bwjkgwxdhwqdxwumsqpw Oj
Zwohmstwjmhwrjcwuj'wxdkwrj'wxjnndco,wgkwZwodzxw'rwZwxzxk'wazhwzhwZ'x
ohdchwdw dktwubogrpwEgnn,wj'wsjmcogwxdhwkzaagcwedkh'whjwtggywugwjmhwgc
xgw mozkgoo,w gtdogwqgwodbowxgbwedck'hw mozkgoow'kjmaqwrjcwhejw dkto,woj
qgwodbwZwsjmnxwymhwzkwubwrzigwxjnndcowgkwqgwydbwugwhqzchb-rzigwdhwxgwgk'
gcwxgwbgdcp

“OjwZwxjkgwzhpw XgkwZwcgst'k'xwZ'xwzkigo'wxgwhqzchb-rzigwxjnndcowczaqh
jrrwgkwtggywhqzkaowd-ujizk'pw Xgbwemlwdwkzaagcwkdug'w j ,wxdhwqdx
tghsqgxwdwejjx-rndh,wgkwqzowudcohgcwxzxk'wtkjewzh;wgkwZw jmaqhwzhwjrr'k
qzuwgkwhjnxwqzuwhjwhdtgwxgwhqzchb-rzigwxjnndcoweqgkwxgwgk'wgcwxg
bgdcwsjug;w mhwojug jxbwohjngwxgwejjx-rndhwxdhwkzaqh,wgkwkgfwxdbwxg
jkg-ndzaagxwkzaagcwodbwxgw dkt'ow mohgxpw Ojwxgbwxzxk'wkjkgwmiwmowazhwkj
ujkgbp”

“Eqdhwxzxwbjmwxjwezhqwhqgwhgkwsgkho,w.zu?”

“Egnn,wZw'mlwaebkgwhjwoygk'wzh,w mhwZwqdxwdwxcgdu,wgkwxgwxcgduwhjngwug
hjwazigwzhwhjwdwkzaagcwkdug'w dnmu-- dnmu'owDoowxgbwsdnnwqzuwrjcwoqjch;
qg'owjkgwgcwxguwsqmstngqgdxo,wbjmwtkjepw  mhwqg'ownmstb,wxgbwodb,wgkwZ
oggwZwedck'hwnmstbpw Xgwxcgduwodbwnghw dnmuwzkigo'wxgwhgkwsgkhowgkwqg'x
udtgwdwcdzogwrjcwugpw Egnn,w dnmuwqgwhmstwxgwujkgb,wgkweqgkwqgwemlwzk
sqmcsqwqgwqgdcwxgwycgdsqgcwodbwxdhweqjgigcwazigwhjwxgwyj'wngk'whjwxg
Njcx,wgkw jmk'whjwazhwqzowujkgbw dstwdwqmkx'xwhzugopw Ojw dnmuwqgwhmst
gkwazigwxgwhgkwsgkhowhjwxgwyj',wgkwndzxwnjewhjwoggweqdhwemlwaebkgwhj
sjugwjrwzhp”

“Egnn,weqdhwxzxwsjugwjrwzh,w.zu?”

“Kmrrkwkgigcwsjugwjrwzhpw Zwsjmnxk'wudkdagwhjwt'ngstwxdhwujkgbwkjwedb;
gkw dnmuwqgwsjmnxk'pw Zwdzk'waebkgwhjwngk'wkjwuj'wujkgbw'xjmhwZwoggwxg
ogsmczhbpw  jmk'whjwazhwbj'wujkgbw dstwdwqmkx'xwhzugo,wxgwycgdsqgcwodbo!
GrwZwsjmnxwazhwxgwhgkw_sgkho_w dst,wZ'xwsdnnwzhwovmdq,wgkw gwandxwgcwxg
sqdkohp”

“Egnn,wzh'owdnnwczaqhwdkbedb,w.zu,wnjkawdowbjm'cgwajzkawhjw gwczsqwdadzk
ojugwhzugwjcwjhqgcp”

“Bgo;wgkwZ'owczsqwkje,wsjugwhjwnjjtwdhwzhpw Zwjekowubogr,wgkwZ'owemhq
gzaqhwqmkx'xwxjnndcopw ZwezoqhwZwqdxwxgwujkgb,wZwejmnxk'wedkhwkjwuj'p”




SQDYHGCwZFp

Zwedkhgxwhjwajwdkxwnjjtwdhwdwyndsgwczaqhwd jmhwhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwzondkx
hqdhwZ'xwrjmkxweqgkwZwedowgfynjczka;wojwegwohdchgxwdkxwojjkwajhwhjwzh,
 gsdmogwhqgwzondkxwedowjknbwhqcggwuzngownjkawdkxwdwvmdchgcwjrwdwuzng
ezxgp

Hqzowyndsgwedowdwhjngcd ngwnjka,wohggywqznnwjcwczxagwd jmhwrjchbwrjjh
qzaqpwEgwqdxwdwcjmaqwhzugwaghhzkawhjwhqgwhjy,whqgwozxgowedowojwohggywdkx
hqgw moqgowojwhqzstpw Egwhcduygxwdkxwsnmu wdcjmkxwdnnwjigcwzh,wdkxw b
dkxw bwrjmkxwdwajjxw zawsdigckwzkwhqgwcjst,wujohwmywhjwhqgwhjywjkwhqg
ozxgwhjedcxowZnnzkjzopw Hqgwsdigckwedowdow zawdowhejwjcwhqcggwcjjuo
 mksqgxwhjaghqgc,wdkxw.zuwsjmnxwohdkxwmywohcdzaqhwzkwzhpw Zhwedowsjjnwzk
hqgcgpw.zuwedowrjcwymhhzkawjmcwhcdyowzkwhqgcgwczaqhwdedb,w mhwZwodzxweg
xzxk'hwedkhwhjw gwsnzu zkawmywdkxwxjekwhqgcgwdnnwhqgwhzugp

.zuwodzxwzrwegwqdxwhqgwsdkjgwqzxwzkwdwajjxwyndsg,wdkxwqdxwdnnwhqgwhcdyo
zkwhqgwsdigck,wegwsjmnxwcmoqwhqgcgwzrwdkb jxbwedowhjwsjugwhjwhqgwzondkx,
dkxwhqgbwejmnxwkgigcwrzkxwmowezhqjmhwxjaopw Dkx,w gozxgo,wqgwodzxwhqgu
nzhhngw zcxowqdxwodzxwzhwedowajzkawhjwcdzk,wdkxwxzxwZwedkhwhqgwhqzkaowhj
aghwegh?

Ojwegwegkhw dstwdkxwajhwhqgwsdkjg,wdkxwydxxngxwmywd cgdohwhqgwsdigck,
dkxwnmaagxwdnnwhqgwhcdyowmywhqgcgpw Hqgkwegwqmkhgxwmywdwyndsgwsnjogw b
hjwqzxgwhqgwsdkjgwzk,wdujkaohwhqgwhqzstweznnjeopw Egwhjjtwojugwrzoqwjrr
jrwhqgwnzkgowdkxwoghwhqguwdadzk,wdkxw gamkwhjwaghwcgdxbwrjcwxzkkgcp

Hqgwxjjcwjrwhqgwsdigckwedow zawgkjmaqwhjwcjnnwdwqjaoqgdxwzk,wdkxwjkwjkg
ozxgwjrwhqgwxjjcwhqgwrnjjcwohmstwjmhwdwnzhhngw zh,wdkxwedowrndhwdkxwd
ajjxwyndsgwhjw mznxwdwrzcgwjkpw Ojwegw mznhwzhwhqgcgwdkxwsjjtgxwxzkkgcp

Egwoycgdxwhqgw ndktghowzkozxgwrjcwdwsdcygh,wdkxwgdhwjmcwxzkkgcwzkwhqgcgp
Egwymhwdnnwhqgwjhqgcwhqzkaowqdkxbwdhwhqgw dstwjrwhqgwsdigckpw Ycghhb
ojjkwzhwxdctgkgxwmy,wdkxw gamkwhjwhqmkxgcwdkxwnzaqhgk;wojwhqgw zcxowedo
czaqhwd jmhwzhpw Xzcgshnbwzhw gamkwhjwcdzk,wdkxwzhwcdzkgxwnztgwdnnwrmcb,
hjj,wdkxwZwkgigcwoggwhqgwezkxw njewojpw Zhwedowjkgwjrwhqgogwcgamndc
omuugcwohjcuopw Zhwejmnxwaghwojwxdctwhqdhwzhwnjjtgxwdnnw nmg- ndst
jmhozxg,wdkxwnjignb;wdkxwhqgwcdzkwejmnxwhqcdoqwdnjkaw bwojwhqzstwhqdh
hqgwhcggowjrrwdwnzhhngwedbownjjtgxwxzuwdkxwoyzxgc-eg  b;wdkxwqgcgwejmnx
sjugwdw ndohwjrwezkxwhqdhwejmnxw gkxwhqgwhcggowxjekwdkxwhmckwmywhqg
ydngwmkxgcozxgwjrwhqgwngdigo;wdkxwhqgkwdwygcrgshwczyygcwjrwdwamohwejmnx
rjnnjewdnjkawdkxwoghwhqgw cdksqgowhjwhjoozkawhqgzcwdcuowdowzrwhqgb
edow.mohweznx;wdkxwkgfh,weqgkwzhwedow.mohwd jmhwhqgw nmgohwdkx
 ndstgoh--_ROH_!wzhwedowdow czaqhwdowanjcb,wdkxwbjm'xwqdigwdwnzhhng
anzuyogwjrwhcgg-hjyowd-ynmkazkawd jmhwdedbwjrrwbjkxgcwzkwhqgwohjcu,
qmkxcgxowjrwbdcxowrmchqgcwhqdkwbjmwsjmnxwoggw grjcg;wxdctwdowozkwdadzk
zkwdwogsjkx,wdkxwkjewbjm'xwqgdcwhqgwhqmkxgcwnghwajwezhqwdkwdermnwscdoq,
dkxwhqgkwajwcmu nzka,wacmu nzka,whmu nzka,wxjekwhqgwotbwhjedcxowhqg
mkxgcwozxgwjrwhqgwejcnx,wnztgwcjnnzkawguyhbw dccgnowxjekwohdzco--eqgcg
zh'ownjkawohdzcowdkxwhqgbw jmksgwdwajjxwxgdn,wbjmwtkjep

“.zu,whqzowzowkzsg,”wZwodbopww“Zwejmnxk'hwedkhwhjw gwkjeqgcgwgnogw mh
qgcgpwYdoowugwdnjkawdkjhqgcwqmktwjrwrzoqwdkxwojugwqjhwsjck- cgdxp”

“Egnn,wbjmwejmnxk'hwdw gkwqgcgw'rwzhwqdxk'hwdw gkwrjcw.zupw Bjm'xwdw gk
xjekwxdqwzkwxgwejjxowezxjmhwdkbwxzkkgc,wgkwazhhk'wujo'wxcjekxgx,whjj;
xdhwbjmwejmnx,wqjkgbpw Sqzstgkowtkjeoweqgkwzh'owaebkgwhjwcdzk,wgkwojwxj
xgw zcxo,wsqzngp”

Hqgwczigcwegkhwjkwcdzozkawdkxwcdzozkawrjcwhgkwjcwhegnigwxdbo,whznnwdh
ndohwzhwedowjigcwhqgw dktopw Hqgwedhgcwedowhqcggwjcwrjmcwrjjhwxggywjk
hqgwzondkxwzkwhqgwnjewyndsgowdkxwjkwhqgwZnnzkjzow jhhjupw Jkwhqdhwozxg
zhwedowdwajjxwudkbwuzngowezxg,w mhwjkwhqgwUzoojmczwozxgwzhwedowhqgwodug
jnxwxzohdksgwdscjoo--dwqdnrwdwuzng-- gsdmogwhqgwUzoojmczwoqjcgwedow.mohwd
ednnwjrwqzaqw nmrrop

Xdbhzugowegwydxxngxwdnnwjigcwhqgwzondkxwzkwhqgwsdkjg,wZhwedowuzaqhbwsjjn
dkxwoqdxbwzkwhqgwxggywejjxo,wgigkwzrwhqgwomkwedow ndlzkawjmhozxgpw Eg
egkhwezkxzkawzkwdkxwjmhwdujkaohwhqgwhcggo,wdkxwojughzugowhqgwizkgowqmka
ojwhqzstwegwqdxwhjw dstwdedbwdkxwajwojugwjhqgcwedbpw Egnn,wjkwgigcbwjnx
 cjtgk-xjekwhcggwbjmwsjmnxwoggwcd  zhowdkxwokdtgowdkxwomsqwhqzkao;wdkx
eqgkwhqgwzondkxwqdxw ggkwjigcrnjegxwdwxdbwjcwhejwhqgbwajhwojwhdug,wjk
dssjmkhwjrw gzkawqmkacb,whqdhwbjmwsjmnxwydxxngwczaqhwmywdkxwymhwbjmc
qdkxwjkwhqguwzrwbjmwedkhgxwhj;w mhwkjhwhqgwokdtgowdkxwhmchngo--hqgbwejmnx
onzxgwjrrwzkwhqgwedhgcpw Hqgwczxagwjmcwsdigckwedowzkwedowrmnnwjrwhqgup
Egwsjmnxwdwqdxwyghowgkjmaqwzrweg'xwedkhgxwhqgup

Jkgwkzaqhwegwsdhsqgxwdwnzhhngwogshzjkwjrwdwnmu gcwcdrh--kzsgwyzkgwyndktop
Zhwedowhegnigwrjjhwezxgwdkxwd jmhwrzrhggkwjcwozfhggkwrjjhwnjka,wdkx
hqgwhjywohjjxwd jigwedhgcwozfwjcwogigkwzksqgo--dwojnzx,wngignwrnjjcpw Eg
sjmnxwoggwode-njaowajw bwzkwhqgwxdbnzaqhwojughzugo,w mhwegwnghwhqguwaj;
egwxzxk'hwoqjewjmcognigowzkwxdbnzaqhp

Dkjhqgcwkzaqhweqgkwegwedowmywdhwhqgwqgdxwjrwhqgwzondkx,w.mohw grjcg
xdbnzaqh,wqgcgwsjugowdwrcdug-qjmogwxjek,wjkwhqgwegohwozxgpw Oqgwedo
dwhej-ohjcb,wdkxwhznhgxwjigcwsjkozxgcd ngpw Egwydxxngxwjmhwdkxwajh
d jdcx--snmu wzkwdhwdkwmyohdzcowezkxjepw  mhwzhwedowhjjwxdctwhjwoggwbgh,
ojwegwudxgwhqgwsdkjgwrdohwdkxwoghwzkwqgcwhjwedzhwrjcwxdbnzaqhp

Hqgwnzaqhw gamkwhjwsjugw grjcgwegwajhwhjwhqgwrjjhwjrwhqgwzondkxpw Hqgk
egwnjjtgxwzkwdhwhqgwezkxjepw Egwsjmnxwudtgwjmhwdw gx,wdkxwdwhd ng,wdkx
hejwjnxwsqdzco,wdkxwnjhowjrwhqzkaowdcjmkxwd jmhwjkwhqgwrnjjc,wdkxwhqgcg
edowsnjhqgowqdkazkawdadzkohwhqgwednnpw Hqgcgwedowojughqzkawndbzkawjkwhqg
rnjjcwzkwhqgwrdcwsjckgcwhqdhwnjjtgxwnztgwdwudkpw Ojw.zuwodbo:

“Qgnnj,wbjm!”

 mhwzhwxzxk'hw mxagpw OjwZwqjnngcgxwdadzk,wdkxwhqgkw.zuwodbo:

“Xgwudkwdzk'hwdonggy--qg'owxgdxpw Bjmwqjnxwohznn--Z'nnwajwgkwoggp”

Qgwegkh,wdkxw gkhwxjekwdkxwnjjtgx,wdkxwodbo:

“Zh'owdwxgdxwudkpw Bgo,wzkxggxb;wkdtgx,whjjpw Qg'ow gkwoqjhwzkwxgw dstp
Zwcgst'kwqg'ow gkwxgdxwhejwgcwhqcggwxdbopw Sjugwzk,wQmst,w mhwxjdk'wnjjt
dhwqzowrdsg--zh'owhjjwadoqnbp”

Zwxzxk'hwnjjtwdhwqzuwdhwdnnpw .zuwhqcjegxwojugwjnxwcdaowjigcwqzu,w mh
qgwkggxk'hwxjkgwzh;wZwxzxk'hwedkhwhjwoggwqzupw Hqgcgwedowqgdyowjrwjnx
acgdobwsdcxowosdhhgcgxwdcjmkxwjigcwhqgwrnjjc,wdkxwjnxweqzotbw jhhngo,
dkxwdwsjmyngwjrwudotowudxgwjmhwjrw ndstwsnjhq;wdkxwdnnwjigcwhqgwednno
edowhqgwzakjcdkhgohwtzkxwjrwejcxowdkxwyzshmcgowudxgwezhqwsqdcsjdnp
 Hqgcgwedowhejwjnxwxzchbwsdnzsjwxcgoogo,wdkxwdwomk- jkkgh,wdkxwojug
ejugk'owmkxgcsnjhqgowqdkazkawdadzkohwhqgwednn,wdkxwojugwugk'owsnjhqzka,
hjjpw Egwymhwhqgwnjhwzkhjwhqgwsdkjg--zhwuzaqhwsjugwajjxpw Hqgcgwedowd
 jb'owjnxwoygstngxwohcdewqdhwjkwhqgwrnjjc;wZwhjjtwhqdh,whjjpw Dkxwhqgcg
edowdw jhhngwhqdhwqdxwqdxwuzntwzkwzh,wdkxwzhwqdxwdwcdawohjyygcwrjcwd
 d bwhjwomstpw Egwejmnxwdwhjjtwhqgw jhhng,w mhwzhwedow cjtgpw Hqgcgwedo
dwoggxbwjnxwsqgoh,wdkxwdkwjnxwqdzcwhcmktwezhqwhqgwqzkagow cjtgpw Hqgb
ohjjxwjygk,w mhwhqgcgwedck'hwkjhqzkawngrhwzkwhqguwhqdhwedowdkbwdssjmkhp
 Hqgwedbwhqzkaowedowosdhhgcgxwd jmhwegwcgstjkgxwhqgwygjyngwngrhwzkwd
qmccb,wdkxwedck'hwrzfgxwojwdowhjwsdccbwjrrwujohwjrwhqgzcwohmrrp

Egwajhwdkwjnxwhzkwndkhgck,wdkxwdw mhsqgc-tkzrgwezhqjmhwdkbwqdkxng,wdkx
dw cdk-kgew dcnjewtkzrgwejchqwhejw zhowzkwdkbwohjcg,wdkxwdwnjhwjrwhdnnje
sdkxngo,wdkxwdwhzkwsdkxngohzst,wdkxwdwajmcx,wdkxwdwhzkwsmy,wdkxwdwcdhhb
jnxw gxvmznhwjrrwhqgw gx,wdkxwdwcghzsmngwezhqwkggxngowdkxwyzkowdkx
 ggoedfwdkxw mhhjkowdkxwhqcgdxwdkxwdnnwomsqwhcmstwzkwzh,wdkxwdwqdhsqgh
dkxwojugwkdzno,wdkxwdwrzoqnzkgwdowhqzstwdowubwnzhhngwrzkagcwezhqwojug
ujkohcjmowqjjtowjkwzh,wdkxwdwcjnnwjrw mstotzk,wdkxwdwngdhqgcwxja-sjnndc,
dkxwdwqjcogoqjg,wdkxwojugwizdnowjrwugxzszkgwhqdhwxzxk'hwqdigwkjwnd gn
jkwhqgu;wdkxw.mohwdowegwedowngdizkawZwrjmkxwdwhjngcd ngwajjxwsmccb-sju ,
dkxw.zuwqgwrjmkxwdwcdhhbwjnxwrzxxng- je,wdkxwdwejjxgkwngapw Hqgwohcdyo
edow cjtgwjrrwjrwzh,w mh,w dcczkawhqdh,wzhwedowdwajjxwgkjmaqwnga,whqjmaq
zhwedowhjjwnjkawrjcwugwdkxwkjhwnjkawgkjmaqwrjcw.zu,wdkxwegwsjmnxk'hwrzkx
hqgwjhqgcwjkg,whqjmaqwegwqmkhgxwdnnwdcjmkxp

Dkxwoj,whdtgwzhwdnnwdcjmkx,wegwudxgwdwajjxwqdmnpw Eqgkwegwedowcgdxbwhj
oqjigwjrrwegwedowdwvmdchgcwjrwdwuzngw gnjewhqgwzondkx,wdkxwzhwedowycghhb
 cjdxwxdb;wojwZwudxgw.zuwndbwxjekwzkwhqgwsdkjgwdkxwsjigcwmywezhqwhqg
vmznh,w gsdmogwzrwqgwoghwmywygjyngwsjmnxwhgnnwqgwedowdwkzaagcwdwajjx
edbowjrrpw ZwydxxngxwjigcwhjwhqgwZnnzkjzowoqjcg,wdkxwxczrhgxwxjekwujoh
dwqdnrwdwuzngwxjzkawzhpw Zwscgyhwmywhqgwxgdxwedhgcwmkxgcwhqgw dkt,wdkx
qdxk'hwkjwdsszxgkhowdkxwxzxk'hwoggwkj jxbpw Egwajhwqjugwdnnwodrgp




SQDYHGCwFp

DRHGCw cgdtrdohwZwedkhgxwhjwhdntwd jmhwhqgwxgdxwudkwdkxwamgoowjmhwqjewqg
sjugwhjw gwtznngx,w mhw.zuwxzxk'hwedkhwhjpw Qgwodzxwzhwejmnxwrghsqw dx
nmst;wdkxw gozxgo,wqgwodzx,wqgwuzaqhwsjugwdkxwqd'khwmo;wqgwodzxwdwudk
hqdhwedck'hw mczgxwedowujcgwnztgnbwhjwajwd-qd'khzkawdcjmkxwhqdkwjkg
hqdhwedowyndkhgxwdkxwsjurjchd ngpw Hqdhwojmkxgxwycghhbwcgdojkd ng,woj
Zwxzxk'hwodbwkjwujcg;w mhwZwsjmnxk'hwtggywrcjuwohmxbzkawjigcwzhwdkx
ezoqzkawZwtkjegxweqjwoqjhwhqgwudk,wdkxweqdhwhqgbwxjkgwzhwrjcp

Egwcmuudagxwhqgwsnjhqgoweg'xwajh,wdkxwrjmkxwgzaqhwxjnndcowzkwoznigc
ogegxwmywzkwhqgwnzkzkawjrwdkwjnxw ndktghwjigcsjdhpw .zuwodzxwqgwcgstjkgx
hqgwygjyngwzkwhqdhwqjmogwohjngwhqgwsjdh,w gsdmogwzrwhqgb'xwdwtkjegxwhqg
ujkgbwedowhqgcgwhqgbwejmnxk'hwdwngrhwzhpw ZwodzxwZwcgstjkgxwhqgbwtznngx
qzu,whjj;w mhw.zuwxzxk'hwedkhwhjwhdntwd jmhwhqdhpw Zwodbo:

“Kjewbjmwhqzktwzh'ow dxwnmst;w mhweqdhwxzxwbjmwodbweqgkwZwrghsqgxwzkwhqg
okdtg-otzkwhqdhwZwrjmkxwjkwhqgwhjywjrwhqgwczxagwxdbw grjcgwbgohgcxdb?
Bjmwodzxwzhwedowhqgwejcohw dxwnmstwzkwhqgwejcnxwhjwhjmsqwdwokdtg-otzk
ezhqwubwqdkxopw Egnn,wqgcg'owbjmcw dxwnmst!w Eg'igwcdtgxwzkwdnnwhqzo
hcmstwdkxwgzaqhwxjnndcow gozxgopw Zwezoqwegwsjmnxwqdigwojugw dxwnmst
nztgwhqzowgigcbwxdb,w.zup”

“Kgigcwbjmwuzkx,wqjkgb,wkgigcwbjmwuzkxpw Xjk'hwbjmwazhwhjjwygdchpw Zh'o
d-sjuzk'pw UzkxwZwhgnnwbjm,wzh'owd-sjuzk'p”

Zhwxzxwsjug,whjjpw ZhwedowdwHmgoxdbwhqdhwegwqdxwhqdhwhdntpw Egnn,wdrhgc
xzkkgcwRczxdbwegwedowndbzkawdcjmkxwzkwhqgwacdoowdhwhqgwmyygcwgkxwjrwhqg
czxag,wdkxwajhwjmhwjrwhj dssjpw Zwegkhwhjwhqgwsdigckwhjwaghwojug,wdkx
rjmkxwdwcdhhngokdtgwzkwhqgcgpw Zwtznngxwqzu,wdkxwsmcngxwqzuwmywjkwhqg
rjjhwjrw.zu'ow ndktgh,wgigcwojwkdhmcdn,whqzktzkawhqgcg'xw gwojugwrmk
eqgkw.zuwrjmkxwqzuwhqgcgpw Egnn,w bwkzaqhwZwrjcajhwdnnwd jmhwhqgwokdtg,
dkxweqgkw.zuwrnmkawqzuognrwxjekwjkwhqgw ndktghweqzngwZwohcmstwdwnzaqh
hqgwokdtg'owudhgwedowhqgcg,wdkxw zhwqzup

Qgw.muygxwmywbgnnzka,wdkxwhqgwrzcohwhqzkawhqgwnzaqhwoqjegxwedowhqg
idcuzkhwsmcngxwmywdkxwcgdxbwrjcwdkjhqgcwoyczkapw Zwndzxwqzuwjmhwzkwd
ogsjkxwezhqwdwohzst,wdkxw.zuwacd  gxwydy'oweqzotb-.mawdkxw gamkwhjwyjmc
zhwxjekp

Qgwedow dcgrjjhgx,wdkxwhqgwokdtgw zhwqzuwczaqhwjkwhqgwqggnpw Hqdhwdnn
sjugowjrwubw gzkawomsqwdwrjjnwdowhjwkjhwcgugu gcwhqdhweqgcgigcwbjmwngdig
dwxgdxwokdtgwzhowudhgwdnedbowsjugowhqgcgwdkxwsmcnowdcjmkxwzhpw .zuwhjnx
ugwhjwsqjywjrrwhqgwokdtg'owqgdxwdkxwhqcjewzhwdedb,wdkxwhqgkwotzkwhqg
 jxbwdkxwcjdohwdwyzgsgwjrwzhpw Zwxjkgwzh,wdkxwqgwgdhwzhwdkxwodzxwzh
ejmnxwqgnywsmcgwqzupwQgwudxgwugwhdtgwjrrwhqgwcdhhngowdkxwhzgwhqguwdcjmkx
qzoweczoh,whjjpw Qgwodzxwhqdhwhqdhwejmnxwqgnypw HqgkwZwonzxwjmhwvmzgh
dkxwhqcjegxwhqgwokdtgowsngdcwdedbwdujkaohwhqgw moqgo;wrjcwZwedck'hwajzka
hjwnghw.zuwrzkxwjmhwzhwedowdnnwubwrdmnh,wkjhwzrwZwsjmnxwqgnywzhp

.zuwomstgxwdkxwomstgxwdhwhqgw.ma,wdkxwkjewdkxwhqgkwqgwajhwjmhwjrwqzo
qgdxwdkxwyzhsqgxwdcjmkxwdkxwbgnngx;w mhwgigcbwhzugwqgwsjugwhjwqzuognrwqg
egkhwhjwomstzkawdhwhqgw.mawdadzkpw Qzowrjjhwoegnngxwmywycghhbw za,wdkx
ojwxzxwqzownga;w mhw bwdkxw bwhqgwxcmktw gamkwhjwsjug,wdkxwojwZw.mxagx
qgwedowdnnwczaqh;w mhwZ'xwxcmhqgcw ggkw zhwezhqwdwokdtgwhqdkwydy'o
eqzotbp

.zuwedowndzxwmywrjcwrjmcwxdbowdkxwkzaqhopw Hqgkwhqgwoegnnzkawedowdnn
ajkgwdkxwqgwedowdcjmkxwdadzkpw ZwudxgwmywubwuzkxwZwejmnxk'hwgigcwhdtg
d-qjnhwjrwdwokdtg-otzkwdadzkwezhqwubwqdkxo,wkjewhqdhwZwoggweqdhwqdxwsjug
jrwzhpw.zuwodzxwqgwcgstjkgxwZwejmnxw gnzgigwqzuwkgfhwhzugpw Dkxwqgwodzx
hqdhwqdkxnzkawdwokdtg-otzkwedowomsqwdermnw dxwnmstwhqdhwudb gwegwqdxk'h
ajhwhjwhqgwgkxwjrwzhwbghpw Qgwodzxwqgwxcmhqgcwoggwhqgwkgewujjkwjigcwqzo
ngrhwoqjmnxgcwdowumsqwdowdwhqjmodkxwhzugowhqdkwhdtgwmywdwokdtg-otzk
zkwqzowqdkxpw Egnn,wZwedowaghhzkawhjwrggnwhqdhwedbwubognr,whqjmaqwZ'ig
dnedbowcgstjkgxwhqdhwnjjtzkawdhwhqgwkgewujjkwjigcwbjmcwngrhwoqjmnxgcwzo
jkgwjrwhqgwsdcgngoogohwdkxwrjjnzoqgohwhqzkaowdw jxbwsdkwxjpw JnxwQdkt
 mktgcwxjkgwzhwjksg,wdkxw cdaagxwd jmhwzh;wdkxwzkwngoowhqdkwhejwbgdcowqg
ajhwxcmktwdkxwrgnnwjrrwjrwhqgwoqjh-hjegc,wdkxwoycgdxwqzuognrwjmhwoj
hqdhwqgwedow.mohwdwtzkxwjrwdwndbgc,wdowbjmwudbwodb;wdkxwhqgbwonzxwqzu
gxagedbow gheggkwhejw dckwxjjcowrjcwdwsjrrzk,wdkxw mczgxwqzuwoj,woj
hqgbwodb,w mhwZwxzxk'hwoggwzhpw Ydywhjnxwugpw  mhwdkbedbwzhwdnnwsjugwjr
njjtzkawdhwhqgwujjkwhqdhwedb,wnztgwdwrjjnp

Egnn,whqgwxdbowegkhwdnjka,wdkxwhqgwczigcwegkhwxjekw gheggkwzhow dkto
dadzk;wdkxwd jmhwhqgwrzcohwhqzkawegwxjkgwedowhjw dzhwjkgwjrwhqgw za
qjjtowezhqwdwotzkkgxwcd  zhwdkxwoghwzhwdkxwsdhsqwdwsdhrzoqwhqdhwedo
dow zawdowdwudk,w gzkawozfwrjjhwhejwzksqgownjka,wdkxwegzaqgxwjigcwhej
qmkxcgxwyjmkxopwEgwsjmnxk'hwqdkxngwqzu,wjrwsjmcog;wqgwejmnxwdwrnmkawmo
zkhjwZnnzkjzopw Egw.mohwoghwhqgcgwdkxwedhsqgxwqzuwczywdkxwhgdcwdcjmkx
hznnwqgwxcjekxgxpw Egwrjmkxwdw cdoow mhhjkwzkwqzowohjudsqwdkxwdwcjmkx
 dnn,wdkxwnjhowjrwcm  dagpw Egwoynzhwhqgw dnnwjygkwezhqwhqgwqdhsqgh,
dkxwhqgcgwedowdwoyjjnwzkwzhpw .zuwodzxwqg'xwqdxwzhwhqgcgwdwnjkawhzug,whj
sjdhwzhwjigcwojwdkxwudtgwdw dnnwjrwzhpw Zhwedowdow zawdwrzoqwdowedowgigc
sdhsqgxwzkwhqgwUzoozoozyyz,wZwcgstjkpw .zuwodzxwqgwqdxk'hwgigcwoggk
dw zaagcwjkgpw Qgwejmnxwdw ggkwejchqwdwajjxwxgdnwjigcwdhwhqgwiznndagp
 Hqgbwygxxngwjmhwomsqwdwrzoqwdowhqdhw bwhqgwyjmkxwzkwhqgwudctgh-qjmog
hqgcg;wgigcb jxbw mbowojugwjrwqzu;wqzowugdh'owdoweqzhgwdowokjewdkxwudtgo
dwajjxwrcbp

KgfhwujckzkawZwodzxwzhwedowaghhzkawonjewdkxwxmnn,wdkxwZwedkhgxwhjwaghwd
ohzcczkawmywojugwedbpw ZwodzxwZwcgstjkgxwZwejmnxwonzywjigcwhqgwczigcwdkx
rzkxwjmhweqdhwedowajzkawjkpw .zuwnztgxwhqdhwkjhzjk;w mhwqgwodzxwZ
umohwajwzkwhqgwxdctwdkxwnjjtwoqdcypw Hqgkwqgwohmxzgxwzhwjigcwdkxwodzx,
sjmnxk'hwZwymhwjkwojugwjrwhqguwjnxwhqzkaowdkxwxcgoowmywnztgwdwazcn?
 Hqdhwedowdwajjxwkjhzjk,whjjpw Ojwegwoqjchgkgxwmywjkgwjrwhqgwsdnzsj
ajeko,wdkxwZwhmckgxwmywubwhcjmogc-ngaowhjwubwtkggowdkxwajhwzkhjwzhpw .zu
qzhsqgxwzhw gqzkxwezhqwhqgwqjjto,wdkxwzhwedowdwrdzcwrzhpw Zwymhwjkwhqg
omk- jkkghwdkxwhzgxwzhwmkxgcwubwsqzk,wdkxwhqgkwrjcwdw jxbwhjwnjjtwzk
dkxwoggwubwrdsgwedownztgwnjjtzkawxjekwdw.jzkhwjrwohjig-yzygpw .zuwodzx
kj jxbwejmnxwtkjewug,wgigkwzkwhqgwxdbhzug,wqdcxnbpw Zwycdshzsgxwdcjmkx
dnnwxdbwhjwaghwhqgwqdkawjrwhqgwhqzkao,wdkxw bwdkxw bwZwsjmnxwxjwycghhb
egnnwzkwhqgu,wjknbw.zuwodzxwZwxzxk'hwedntwnztgwdwazcn;wdkxwqgwodzx
Zwumohwvmzhwymnnzkawmywubwajekwhjwaghwdhwubw czhsqgo-yjstghpw Zwhjjt
kjhzsg,wdkxwxjkgw ghhgcp

ZwohdchgxwmywhqgwZnnzkjzowoqjcgwzkwhqgwsdkjgw.mohwdrhgcwxdctp

Zwohdchgxwdscjoowhjwhqgwhjekwrcjuwdwnzhhngw gnjewhqgwrgccb-ndkxzka,wdkx
hqgwxczrhwjrwhqgwsmccgkhwrghsqgxwugwzkwdhwhqgw jhhjuwjrwhqgwhjekpw Z
hzgxwmywdkxwohdchgxwdnjkawhqgw dktpw Hqgcgwedowdwnzaqhw mckzkawzkwd
nzhhngwoqdkhbwhqdhwqdxk'hw ggkwnzigxwzkwrjcwdwnjkawhzug,wdkxwZwejkxgcgx
eqjwqdxwhjjtwmywvmdchgcowhqgcgpw Zwonzyygxwmywdkxwyggygxwzkwdhwhqg
ezkxjepw Hqgcgwedowdwejudkwd jmhwrjchbwbgdcwjnxwzkwhqgcgwtkzhhzkaw b
dwsdkxngwhqdhwedowjkwdwyzkgwhd ngpw Zwxzxk'hwtkjewqgcwrdsg;woqgwedowd
ohcdkagc,wrjcwbjmwsjmnxk'hwohdchwdwrdsgwzkwhqdhwhjekwhqdhwZwxzxk'hwtkjep
 Kjewhqzowedownmstb,w gsdmogwZwedowegdtgkzka;wZwedowaghhzkawdrcdzxwZwqdx
sjug;wygjyngwuzaqhwtkjewubwijzsgwdkxwrzkxwugwjmhpw  mhwzrwhqzowejudkwqdx
 ggkwzkwomsqwdwnzhhngwhjekwhejwxdbowoqgwsjmnxwhgnnwugwdnnwZwedkhgxwhj
tkje;wojwZwtkjstgxwdhwhqgwxjjc,wdkxwudxgwmywubwuzkxwZwejmnxk'hwrjcaghwZ
edowdwazcnp




SQDYHGCwFZp

“SJUGwzk,”wodbowhqgwejudk,wdkxwZwxzxpw Oqgwodbo:ww“Hdtgwdwsqggcp”

Zwxjkgwzhpw Oqgwnjjtgxwugwdnnwjigcwezhqwqgcwnzhhngwoqzkbwgbgo,wdkxwodbo:

“Eqdhwuzaqhwbjmcwkdugw g?”

“OdcdqwEznnzduop”

“Eqgcgw' jmhowxjwbjmwnzig?w Zkwhqzowkgzaq jcqjjx?'

“Kj'upw ZkwQjjtgciznng,wogigkwuzngw gnjepw Z'igwedntgxwdnnwhqgwedbwdkx
Z'uwdnnwhzcgxwjmhp”

“Qmkacb,whjj,wZwcgstjkpw Z'nnwrzkxwbjmwojughqzkap”

“Kj'u,wZwdzk'hwqmkacbpw ZwedowojwqmkacbwZwqdxwhjwohjywhejwuzngow gnje
qgcgwdhwdwrdcu;wojwZwdzk'hwqmkacbwkjwujcgpw Zh'oweqdhwudtgowugwojwndhgp
Ubwujhqgc'owxjekwozst,wdkxwjmhwjrwujkgbwdkxwgigcbhqzka,wdkxwZwsjugwhj
hgnnwubwmksngwD kgcwUjjcgpw Qgwnzigowdhwhqgwmyygcwgkxwjrwhqgwhjek,woqg
odbopw Zwqdzk'hwgigcw ggkwqgcgw grjcgpw Xjwbjmwtkjewqzu?”

“Kj;w mhwZwxjk'hwtkjewgigcb jxbwbghpw Zwqdigk'hwnzigxwqgcgwvmzhgwhej
eggtopwZh'owdwsjkozxgcd ngwedbowhjwhqgwmyygcwgkxwjrwhqgwhjekpw Bjm
 ghhgcwohdbwqgcgwdnnwkzaqhpw Hdtgwjrrwbjmcw jkkghp”

“Kj,”wZwodbo;w“Z'nnwcgohwdweqzng,wZwcgstjk,wdkxwajwjkpw Zwdzk'hwdrgdcgx
jrwhqgwxdctp”

Oqgwodzxwoqgwejmnxk'hwnghwugwajw bwubognr,w mhwqgcwqmo dkxwejmnxw gwzk
 bwdkxw b,wudb gwzkwdwqjmcwdkxwdwqdnr,wdkxwoqg'xwogkxwqzuwdnjkawezhqwugp
Hqgkwoqgwajhwhjwhdntzkawd jmhwqgcwqmo dkx,wdkxwd jmhwqgcwcgndhzjkowmy
hqgwczigc,wdkxwqgcwcgndhzjkowxjekwhqgwczigc,wdkxwd jmhwqjewumsqw ghhgc
jrrwhqgbwmogxwhjwedo,wdkxwqjewhqgbwxzxk'hwtkjew mhwhqgb'xwudxgwdwuzohdtg
sjuzkawhjwjmcwhjek,wzkohgdxwjrwnghhzkawegnnwdnjkg--dkxwojwjkwdkxwojwjk,
hznnwZwedowdrgdcxwZwqdxwudxgwdwuzohdtgwsjuzkawhjwqgcwhjwrzkxwjmhweqdh
edowajzkawjkwzkwhqgwhjek;w mhw bwdkxw bwoqgwxcjyygxwjkwhjwydywdkxwhqg
umcxgc,wdkxwhqgkwZwedowycghhbweznnzkawhjwnghwqgcwsndhhgcwczaqhwdnjkap
 Oqgwhjnxwd jmhwugwdkxwHjuwOdebgcwrzkxzkawhqgwozfwhqjmodkxwxjnndcow(jknb
oqgwajhwzhwhgk)wdkxwdnnwd jmhwydywdkxweqdhwdwqdcxwnjhwqgwedo,wdkxweqdh
dwqdcxwnjhwZwedo,wdkxwdhwndohwoqgwajhwxjekwhjweqgcgwZwedowumcxgcgxpw Z
odbo:

“Eqjwxjkgwzh?w Eg'igwqgdcxwsjkozxgcd ngwd jmhwhqgogwajzkaowjkwxjekwzk
Qjjtgciznng,w mhwegwxjk'hwtkjeweqjw'hedowhqdhwtznngxwQmstwRzkkp”

“Egnn,wZwcgstjkwhqgcg'owdwczaqhwoudchwsqdksgwjrwygjyngw_qgcg_whqdh'x
nztgwhjwtkjeweqjwtznngxwqzupw OjugwhqzktwjnxwRzkkwxjkgwzhwqzuognrp”

“Kj--zowhqdhwoj?”

“Ujohwgigcb jxbwhqjmaqhwzhwdhwrzcohpw Qg'nnwkgigcwtkjewqjewkzaqwqgwsjug
hjwaghhzkawnbksqgxpw  mhw grjcgwkzaqhwhqgbwsqdkagxwdcjmkxwdkxw.mxagxwzh
edowxjkgw bwdwcmkdedbwkzaagcwkdugxw.zup”

“Eqbw_qg_--”

Zwohjyygxpw ZwcgstjkgxwZw ghhgcwtggywohznnpw Oqgwcmkwjk,wdkxwkgigc
kjhzsgxwZwqdxwymhwzkwdhwdnn:

“HqgwkzaagcwcmkwjrrwhqgwigcbwkzaqhwQmstwRzkkwedowtznngxpw Ojwhqgcg'owd
cgedcxwjmhwrjcwqzu--hqcggwqmkxcgxwxjnndcopw Dkxwhqgcg'owdwcgedcxwjmhwrjc
jnxwRzkk,whjj--hejwqmkxcgxwxjnndcopw Bjmwogg,wqgwsjugwhjwhjekwhqg
ujckzkawdrhgcwhqgwumcxgc,wdkxwhjnxwd jmhwzh,wdkxwedowjmhwezhqw'guwjkwhqg
rgccb jdhwqmkh,wdkxwczaqhwdedbwdrhgcwqgwmywdkxwngrhpw  grjcgwkzaqhwhqgb
edkhgxwhjwnbksqwqzu,w mhwqgwedowajkg,wbjmwoggpw Egnn,wkgfhwxdbwhqgb
rjmkxwjmhwhqgwkzaagcwedowajkg;whqgbwrjmkxwjmhwqgwqdxk'hw gkwoggkwogksg
hgkwj'snjstwhqgwkzaqhwhqgwumcxgcwedowxjkgpw Ojwhqgkwhqgbwymhwzhwjkwqzu,
bjmwogg;wdkxweqzngwhqgbwedowrmnnwjrwzh,wkgfhwxdb,w dstwsjugowjnxwRzkk,
dkxwegkhw jj-qjjzkawhjw.mxagwHqdhsqgcwhjwaghwujkgbwhjwqmkhwrjcwhqg
kzaagcwdnnwjigcwZnnzkjzowezhqpwHqgw.mxagwadigwqzuwojug,wdkxwhqdhwgigkzka
qgwajhwxcmkt,wdkxwedowdcjmkxwhznnwdrhgcwuzxkzaqhwezhqwdwsjmyngwjrwuzaqhb
qdcx-njjtzkawohcdkagco,wdkxwhqgkwegkhwjrrwezhqwhqgupw Egnn,wqgwqdzk'h
sjugw dstwogksg,wdkxwhqgbwdzk'hwnjjtzkawrjcwqzuw dstwhznnwhqzowhqzka
 njeowjigcwdwnzhhng,wrjcwygjyngwhqzktowkjewhqdhwqgwtznngxwqzow jbwdkx
rzfgxwhqzkaowojwrjntowejmnxwhqzktwcj  gcowxjkgwzh,wdkxwhqgkwqg'xwagh
Qmst'owujkgbwezhqjmhwqdizkawhjw jhqgcwdwnjkawhzugwezhqwdwndeomzhp
 Ygjyngwxjwodbwqgwedck'hwdkbwhjjwajjxwhjwxjwzhpw Jq,wqg'owonb,wZwcgstjkp
 Zrwqgwxjk'hwsjugw dstwrjcwdwbgdcwqg'nnw gwdnnwczaqhpw Bjmwsdk'hwycjig
dkbhqzkawjkwqzu,wbjmwtkje;wgigcbhqzkaweznnw gwvmzghgxwxjekwhqgk,wdkx
qg'nnwedntwzkwQmst'owujkgbwdowgdobwdowkjhqzkap”

“Bgo,wZwcgstjkwoj,w'upw Zwxjk'hwoggwkjhqzkawzkwhqgwedbwjrwzhpw Qdo
gigcb jxbwvmzhwhqzktzkawhqgwkzaagcwxjkgwzh?”

“Jq,wkj,wkjhwgigcb jxbpw Dwajjxwudkbwhqzktowqgwxjkgwzhpw  mhwhqgb'nnwagh
hqgwkzaagcwycghhbwojjkwkje,wdkxwudb gwhqgbwsdkwosdcgwzhwjmhwjrwqzup”

“Eqb,wdcgwhqgbwdrhgcwqzuwbgh?”

“Egnn,wbjm'cgwzkkjsgkh,wdzk'hwbjm!w Xjgowhqcggwqmkxcgxwxjnndcowndb
dcjmkxwgigcbwxdbwrjcwygjyngwhjwyzstwmy?w Ojugwrjntowhqzktwhqgwkzaagc
dzk'hwrdcwrcjuwqgcgpw Z'uwjkgwjrwhqgu-- mhwZwqdzk'hwhdntgxwzhwdcjmkxpw D
rgewxdbowdajwZwedowhdntzkawezhqwdkwjnxwsjmyngwhqdhwnzigowkgfhwxjjcwzk
hqgwnjawoqdkhb,wdkxwhqgbwqdyygkgxwhjwodbwqdcxnbwdkb jxbwgigcwajgowhj
hqdhwzondkxwjigcwbjkxgcwhqdhwhqgbwsdnnw.dstojk'owZondkxpw Xjk'hwdkb jxb
nzigwhqgcg?wodbowZpwKj,wkj jxb,wodbowhqgbpw Zwxzxk'hwodbwdkbwujcg,w mh
Zwxjkgwojugwhqzktzkapw ZwedowycghhbwkgdcwsgchdzkwZ'xwoggkwoujtgwjigc
hqgcg,wd jmhwhqgwqgdxwjrwhqgwzondkx,wdwxdbwjcwhejw grjcgwhqdh,wojwZwodbo
hjwubognr,wnztgwdowkjhwhqdhwkzaagc'owqzxzkawjigcwhqgcg;wdkbedb,wodbo
Z,wzh'owejchqwhqgwhcjm ngwhjwazigwhqgwyndsgwdwqmkhpw Zwqdzk'hwoggkwdkb
oujtgwogksg,wojwZwcgstjkwudb gwqg'owajkg,wzrwzhwedowqzu;w mhwqmo dkx'o
ajzkawjigcwhjwogg--qzuwdkxwdkjhqgcwudkpw Qgwedowajkgwmywhqgwczigc;w mhwqg
ajhw dstwhj-xdb,wdkxwZwhjnxwqzuwdowojjkwdowqgwajhwqgcgwhejwqjmcowdajp”

ZwqdxwajhwojwmkgdobwZwsjmnxk'hwoghwohznnpw Zwqdxwhjwxjwojughqzkawezhqwub
qdkxo;wojwZwhjjtwmywdwkggxngwjrrwjrwhqgwhd ngwdkxwegkhwhjwhqcgdxzka
zhpwUbwqdkxowoqjjt,wdkxwZwedowudtzkawdw dxw.j wjrwzhpw Eqgkwhqgwejudk
ohjyygxwhdntzkawZwnjjtgxwmy,wdkxwoqgwedownjjtzkawdhwugwycghhbwsmczjmo
dkxwouznzkawdwnzhhngpw Zwymhwxjekwhqgwkggxngwdkxwhqcgdx,wdkxwnghwjkwhj
 gwzkhgcgohgx--dkxwZwedo,whjj--dkxwodbo:

“Hqcggwqmkxcgxwxjnndcowzowdwyjegcwjrwujkgbpw Zwezoqwubwujhqgcwsjmnxwagh
zhpwZowbjmcwqmo dkxwajzkawjigcwhqgcgwhj-kzaqh?”

“Jq,wbgopw Qgwegkhwmy-hjekwezhqwhqgwudkwZwedowhgnnzkawbjmwjr,whjwaghwd
 jdhwdkxwoggwzrwhqgbwsjmnxw jccjewdkjhqgcwamkpw Hqgb'nnwajwjigcwdrhgc
uzxkzaqhp”

“Sjmnxk'hwhqgbwoggw ghhgcwzrwhqgbwedowhjwedzhwhznnwxdbhzug?”

“Bgopw Dkxwsjmnxk'hwhqgwkzaagcwoggw ghhgc,whjj?w Drhgcwuzxkzaqhwqg'nn
nztgnbw gwdonggy,wdkxwhqgbwsdkwonzywdcjmkxwhqcjmaqwhqgwejjxowdkxwqmkhwmy
qzowsduywrzcgwdnnwhqgw ghhgcwrjcwhqgwxdct,wzrwqg'owajhwjkgp”

“Zwxzxk'hwhqzktwjrwhqdhp”

Hqgwejudkwtgyhwnjjtzkawdhwugwycghhbwsmczjmo,wdkxwZwxzxk'hwrggnwdw zh
sjurjchd ngpw Ycghhbwojjkwoqgwodbo,

“Eqdhwxzxwbjmwodbwbjmcwkdugwedo,wqjkgb?”

“U--UdcbwEznnzduop”

Ojugqjewzhwxzxk'hwogguwhjwugwhqdhwZwodzxwzhwedowUdcbw grjcg,wojwZwxzxk'h
njjtwmy--oggugxwhjwugwZwodzxwzhwedowOdcdq;wojwZwrgnhwojchwjrwsjckgcgx,
dkxwedowdrgdcgxwudb gwZwedownjjtzkawzh,whjjpw Zwezoqgxwhqgwejudkwejmnx
odbwojughqzkawujcg;whqgwnjkagcwoqgwoghwohznnwhqgwmkgdozgcwZwedopw  mh
kjewoqgwodbo:

“Qjkgb,wZwhqjmaqhwbjmwodzxwzhwedowOdcdqweqgkwbjmwrzcohwsjugwzk?”

“Jq,wbgo'u,wZwxzxpw OdcdqwUdcbwEznnzduopw Odcdq'owubwrzcohwkdugpw Ojug
sdnnowugwOdcdq,wojugwsdnnowugwUdcbp”

“Jq,whqdh'owhqgwedbwjrwzh?”

“Bgo'up”

Zwedowrggnzkaw ghhgcwhqgk,w mhwZwezoqgxwZwedowjmhwjrwhqgcg,wdkbedbpw Z
sjmnxk'hwnjjtwmywbghp

Egnn,whqgwejudkwrgnnwhjwhdntzkawd jmhwqjewqdcxwhzugowedo,wdkxwqjewyjjc
hqgbwqdxwhjwnzig,wdkxwqjewhqgwcdhowedowdowrcggwdowzrwhqgbwjekgxwhqg
yndsg,wdkxwojwrjchqwdkxwojwjk,wdkxwhqgkwZwajhwgdobwdadzkpw Oqgwedowczaqh
d jmhwhqgwcdhopwBjm'xwoggwjkgwohzstwqzowkjogwjmhwjrwdwqjngwzkwhqgwsjckgc
gigcbwnzhhngweqzngpw Oqgwodzxwoqgwqdxwhjwqdigwhqzkaowqdkxbwhjwhqcjewdh
hqguweqgkwoqgwedowdnjkg,wjcwhqgbwejmnxk'hwazigwqgcwkjwygdsgpw Oqgwoqjegx
ugwdw dcwjrwngdxwhezohgxwmywzkhjwdwtkjh,wdkxwodzxwoqgwedowdwajjxwoqjh
ezhqwzhwagkgcnb,w mhwoqg'xwecgksqgxwqgcwdcuwdwxdbwjcwhejwdaj,wdkxwxzxk'h
tkjeweqghqgcwoqgwsjmnxwhqcjewhcmgwkjepw  mhwoqgwedhsqgxwrjcwdwsqdksg,
dkxwxzcgshnbw dkagxwdedbwdhwdwcdh;w mhwoqgwuzoogxwqzuwezxg,wdkxwodzx
“Jmsq!”wzhwqmchwqgcwdcuwojpw Hqgkwoqgwhjnxwugwhjwhcbwrjcwhqgwkgfhwjkgp
 Zwedkhgxwhjw gwaghhzkawdedbw grjcgwhqgwjnxwudkwajhw dst,w mhwjrwsjmcog
Zwxzxk'hwnghwjkpw Zwajhwhqgwhqzka,wdkxwhqgwrzcohwcdhwhqdhwoqjegxwqzo
kjogwZwnghwxczig,wdkxwzrwqg'xwdwohdbgxweqgcgwqgwedowqg'xwdw ggkwd
hjngcd ngwozstwcdhpw Oqgwodzxwhqdhwedowrzcoh-cdhg,wdkxwoqgwcgstjkgxwZ
ejmnxwqzigwhqgwkgfhwjkgpw Oqgwegkhwdkxwajhwhqgwnmuywjrwngdxwdkxwrghsqgx
zhw dst,wdkxw cjmaqhwdnjkawdwqdktwjrwbdckweqzsqwoqgwedkhgxwugwhjwqgny
qgcwezhqpw Zwqgnxwmywubwhejwqdkxowdkxwoqgwymhwhqgwqdktwjigcwhqgu,wdkx
egkhwjkwhdntzkawd jmhwqgcwdkxwqgcwqmo dkx'owudhhgcopw  mhwoqgw cjtgwjrr
hjwodb:

“Tggywbjmcwgbgwjkwhqgwcdhopw Bjmw ghhgcwqdigwhqgwngdxwzkwbjmcwndy,
qdkxbp”

Ojwoqgwxcjyygxwhqgwnmuywzkhjwubwndyw.mohwdhwhqdhwujugkh,wdkxwZwsndyygx
ubwngaowhjaghqgcwjkwzhwdkxwoqgwegkhwjkwhdntzkapw  mhwjknbwd jmhwd
uzkmhgpwHqgkwoqgwhjjtwjrrwhqgwqdktwdkxwnjjtgxwugwohcdzaqhwzkwhqgwrdsg,
dkxwigcbwyngdodkh,wdkxwodbo:

“Sjug,wkje,weqdh'owbjmcwcgdnwkdug?”

“Eq--eqdh,wumu?”

“Eqdh'owbjmcwcgdnwkdug?w Zowzhw znn,wjcwHju,wjcw j ?--jcweqdhwzowzh?”

ZwcgstjkwZwoqjjtwnztgwdwngdr,wdkxwZwxzxk'hwtkjewqdcxnbweqdhwhjwxjpw  mh
Zwodbo:

“Yngdogwhjwxjk'hwyjtgwrmkwdhwdwyjjcwazcnwnztgwug,wumupw ZrwZ'uwzkwhqg
edbwqgcg,wZ'nn--”

“Kj,wbjmwejk'hpw Oghwxjekwdkxwohdbweqgcgwbjmwdcgpw Zwdzk'hwajzkawhjwqmch
bjm,wdkxwZwdzk'hwajzkawhjwhgnnwjkwbjm,wkmhqgcpw Bjmw.mohwhgnnwugwbjmc
ogscgh,wdkxwhcmohwugpw Z'nnwtggywzh;wdkx,weqdh'owujcg,wZ'nnwqgny
bjmpwOj'nnwubwjnxwudkwzrwbjmwedkhwqzuwhjpw Bjmwogg,wbjm'cgwdwcmkdedb
'ycgkhzsg,whqdh'owdnnpw Zhwdzk'hwdkbhqzkapw Hqgcgwdzk'hwkjwqdcuwzkwzhp
Bjm'igw ggkwhcgdhgxw dx,wdkxwbjmwudxgwmywbjmcwuzkxwhjwsmhpw  ngoowbjm,
sqznx,wZwejmnxk'hwhgnnwjkwbjmpw Hgnnwugwdnnwd jmhwzhwkje,whqdh'owdwajjx
 jbp”

OjwZwodzxwzhwejmnxk'hw gwkjwmogwhjwhcbwhjwyndbwzhwdkbwnjkagc,wdkxwZ
ejmnxw.mohwudtgwdwsngdkw cgdohwdkxwhgnnwqgcwgigcbhqzka,w mhwoqgwumok'h
ajw dstwjkwqgcwycjuzogpw HqgkwZwhjnxwqgcwubwrdhqgcwdkxwujhqgcwedowxgdx,
dkxwhqgwndewqdxw jmkxwugwjmhwhjwdwugdkwjnxwrdcugcwzkwhqgwsjmkhcbwhqzchb
uzngw dstwrcjuwhqgwczigc,wdkxwqgwhcgdhgxwugwojw dxwZwsjmnxk'hwohdkxwzh
kjwnjkagc;wqgwegkhwdedbwhjw gwajkgwdwsjmyngwjrwxdbo,wdkxwojwZwhjjtwub
sqdksgwdkxwohjngwojugwjrwqzowxdmaqhgc'owjnxwsnjhqgowdkxwsngdcgxwjmh,wdkx
Zwqdxw ggkwhqcggwkzaqhowsjuzkawhqgwhqzchbwuzngopw Zwhcdigngxwkzaqho,
dkxwqzxwxdbhzugowdkxwongyh,wdkxwhqgw dawjrw cgdxwdkxwugdhwZwsdcczgxwrcju
qjugwndohgxwugwdnnwhqgwedb,wdkxwZwqdxwd-yngkhbpw ZwodzxwZw gnzgigxwub
mksngwD kgcwUjjcgwejmnxwhdtgwsdcgwjrwug,wdkxwojwhqdhwedoweqbwZwohcmst
jmhwrjcwhqzowhjekwjrwAjoqgkp

“Ajoqgk,wsqznx?w Hqzowdzk'hwAjoqgkpw HqzowzowOhpwYghgco mcapw Ajoqgk'o
hgkwuzngwrmchqgcwmywhqgwczigcpw EqjwhjnxwbjmwhqzowedowAjoqgk?”

“Eqb,wdwudkwZwughwdhwxdb cgdtwhqzowujckzka,w.mohwdowZwedowajzkawhjwhmck
zkhjwhqgwejjxowrjcwubwcgamndcwonggypw QgwhjnxwugweqgkwhqgwcjdxowrjctgxwZ
umohwhdtgwhqgwczaqhwqdkx,wdkxwrzigwuzngwejmnxwrghsqwugwhjwAjoqgkp”

“Qgwedowxcmkt,wZwcgstjkpw Qgwhjnxwbjmw.mohwgfdshnbwecjkap”

“Egnn,wqgwxzxwdshwnztgwqgwedowxcmkt,w mhwzhwdzk'hwkjwudhhgcwkjepw Zwajh
hjw gwujizkawdnjkapw Z'nnwrghsqwAjoqgkw grjcgwxdbnzaqhp”

“Qjnxwjkwdwuzkmhgpw Z'nnwymhwbjmwmywdwokdstwhjwgdhpw Bjmwuzaqhwedkhwzhp”

Ojwoqgwymhwugwmywdwokdst,wdkxwodbo:

“Odb,weqgkwdwsje'owndbzkawxjek,weqzsqwgkxwjrwqgcwaghowmywrzcoh?w Dkoegc
mywycjuyhwkje--xjk'hwohjywhjwohmxbwjigcwzhpw Eqzsqwgkxwaghowmywrzcoh?”

“Hqgwqzkxwgkx,wumup”

“Egnn,whqgk,wdwqjcog?”

“Hqgwrjc'cdcxwgkx,wumup”

“Eqzsqwozxgwjrwdwhcggwxjgowhqgwujoowacjewjk?”

“Kjchqwozxgp”

“Zrwrzrhggkwsjeowzow cjeozkawjkwdwqznnozxg,wqjewudkbwjrwhqguwgdhowezhq
hqgzcwqgdxowyjzkhgxwhqgwodugwxzcgshzjk?”

“Hqgweqjngwrzrhggk,wumup”

“Egnn,wZwcgstjkwbjmw_qdig_wnzigxwzkwhqgwsjmkhcbpw Zwhqjmaqhwudb gwbjm
edowhcbzkawhjwqjsmowugwdadzkpw Eqdh'owbjmcwcgdnwkdug,wkje?”

“AgjcagwYghgco,wumup”

“Egnn,whcbwhjwcgugu gcwzh,wAgjcagpw Xjk'hwrjcaghwdkxwhgnnwugwzh'o
Gngfdkxgcw grjcgwbjmwaj,wdkxwhqgkwaghwjmhw bwodbzkawzh'owAgjcag
GngfdkxgcweqgkwZwsdhsqwbjmpw Dkxwxjk'hwajwd jmhwejugkwzkwhqdhwjnx
sdnzsjpw Bjmwxjwdwazcnwhjngcd ngwyjjc,w mhwbjmwuzaqhwrjjnwugk,wudb gp
  ngoowbjm,wsqznx,weqgkwbjmwoghwjmhwhjwhqcgdxwdwkggxngwxjk'hwqjnxwhqg
hqcgdxwohznnwdkxwrghsqwhqgwkggxngwmywhjwzh;wqjnxwhqgwkggxngwohznnwdkx
yjtgwhqgwhqcgdxwdhwzh;whqdh'owhqgwedbwdwejudkwujohwdnedbowxjgo,w mhwd
udkwdnedbowxjgowh'jhqgcwedbpw Dkxweqgkwbjmwhqcjewdhwdwcdhwjcwdkbhqzka,
qzhsqwbjmcognrwmywdwhzyhjgwdkxwrghsqwbjmcwqdkxwmywjigcwbjmcwqgdxwdo
detedcxwdowbjmwsdk,wdkxwuzoowbjmcwcdhwd jmhwozfwjcwogigkwrjjhpwHqcje
ohzrr-dcugxwrcjuwhqgwoqjmnxgc,wnztgwhqgcgwedowdwyzijhwhqgcgwrjcwzhwhj
hmckwjk,wnztgwdwazcn;wkjhwrcjuwhqgweczohwdkxwgn je,wezhqwbjmcwdcuwjmh
hjwjkgwozxg,wnztgwdw jbpw Dkx,wuzkxwbjm,weqgkwdwazcnwhczgowhjwsdhsq
dkbhqzkawzkwqgcwndywoqgwhqcjeowqgcwtkggowdydch;woqgwxjk'hwsndywhqgu
hjaghqgc,whqgwedbwbjmwxzxweqgkwbjmwsdhsqgxwhqgwnmuywjrwngdxpw Eqb,wZ
oyjhhgxwbjmwrjcwdw jbweqgkwbjmwedowhqcgdxzkawhqgwkggxng;wdkxwZwsjkhczigx
hqgwjhqgcwhqzkaow.mohwhjwudtgwsgchdzkpw Kjewhcjhwdnjkawhjwbjmcwmksng,
OdcdqwUdcbwEznnzduowAgjcagwGngfdkxgcwYghgco,wdkxwzrwbjmwaghwzkhjwhcjm ng
bjmwogkxwejcxwhjwUcopw.mxzhqwNjrhmo,weqzsqwzowug,wdkxwZ'nnwxjweqdhwZwsdk
hjwaghwbjmwjmhwjrwzhpw Tggywhqgwczigcwcjdxwdnnwhqgwedb,wdkxwkgfhwhzug
bjmwhcduywhdtgwoqjgowdkxwojstowezhqwbjmpwHqgwczigcwcjdx'owdwcjstbwjkg,
dkxwbjmcwrggh'nnw gwzkwdwsjkxzhzjkweqgkwbjmwaghwhjwAjoqgk,wZwcgstjkp”

Zwegkhwmywhqgw dktwd jmhwrzrhbwbdcxo,wdkxwhqgkwZwxjm ngxwjkwubwhcdsto
dkxwonzyygxw dstwhjweqgcgwubwsdkjgwedo,wdwajjxwyzgsgw gnjewhqgwqjmogpw Z
.muygxwzk,wdkxwedowjrrwzkwdwqmccbpw Zwegkhwmy-ohcgduwrdcwgkjmaqwhj
udtgwhqgwqgdxwjrwhqgwzondkx,wdkxwhqgkwohdchgxwdscjoopw Zwhjjtwjrrwhqg
omk- jkkgh,wrjcwZwxzxk'hwedkhwkjw nzkxgcowjkwhqgkpw EqgkwZwedowd jmhwhqg
uzxxngwZwqgdcxwhqgwsnjstw gazkwhjwohcztg,wojwZwohjyowdkxwnzohgko;whqg
ojmkxwsjugwrdzkhwjigcwhqgwedhgcw mhwsngdc--gngigkpw EqgkwZwohcmstwhqg
qgdxwjrwhqgwzondkxwZwkgigcwedzhgxwhjw nje,whqjmaqwZwedowujohwezkxgx,w mh
Zwoqjigxwczaqhwzkhjwhqgwhzu gcweqgcgwubwjnxwsduywmogxwhjw g,wdkxwohdchgx
dwajjxwrzcgwhqgcgwjkwdwqzaqwdkxwxcbwoyjhp

HqgkwZw.muygxwzkwhqgwsdkjgwdkxwxmawjmhwrjcwjmcwyndsg,wdwuzngwdkxwdwqdnr
 gnje,wdowqdcxwdowZwsjmnxwajpw Zwndkxgx,wdkxwonjyygxwhqcjmaqwhqgwhzu gc
dkxwmywhqgwczxagwdkxwzkhjwhqgwsdigckpw Hqgcgw.zuwndzx,wojmkxwdonggywjk
hqgwacjmkxpw Zwcjmogxwqzuwjmhwdkxwodbo:

“Azhwmywdkxwqmuywbjmcognr,w.zu!w Hqgcgwdzk'hwdwuzkmhgwhjwnjogpw Hqgb'cg
drhgcwmo!”

.zuwkgigcwdotgxwkjwvmgohzjko,wqgwkgigcwodzxwdwejcx;w mhwhqgwedbwqg
ejctgxwrjcwhqgwkgfhwqdnrwdkwqjmcwoqjegxwd jmhwqjewqgwedowosdcgxpw  b
hqdhwhzugwgigcbhqzkawegwqdxwzkwhqgwejcnxwedowjkwjmcwcdrh,wdkxwoqgwedo
cgdxbwhjw gwoqjigxwjmhwrcjuwhqgweznnjewsjigweqgcgwoqgwedowqzxpw Eg
ymhwjmhwhqgwsduywrzcgwdhwhqgwsdigckwhqgwrzcohwhqzka,wdkxwxzxk'hwoqjewd
sdkxngwjmhozxgwdrhgcwhqdhp

Zwhjjtwhqgwsdkjgwjmhwrcjuwhqgwoqjcgwdwnzhhngwyzgsg,wdkxwhjjtwdwnjjt;
 mhwzrwhqgcgwedowdw jdhwdcjmkxwZwsjmnxk'hwoggwzh,wrjcwohdcowdkxwoqdxjeo
dzk'hwajjxwhjwoggw bpw Hqgkwegwajhwjmhwhqgwcdrhwdkxwonzyygxwdnjkawxjek
zkwhqgwoqdxg,wydohwhqgwrjjhwjrwhqgwzondkxwxgdxwohznn--kgigcwodbzkawd
ejcxp




SQDYHGCwFZZp

ZHwumohwdw ggkwsnjogwjkwhjwjkgwj'snjstweqgkwegwajhw gnjewhqgwzondkxwdh
ndoh,wdkxwhqgwcdrhwxzxwogguwhjwajwuzaqhbwonjepw Zrwdw jdhwedowhjwsjug
dnjkawegwedowajzkawhjwhdtgwhjwhqgwsdkjgwdkxw cgdtwrjcwhqgwZnnzkjzo
oqjcg;wdkxwzhwedowegnnwdw jdhwxzxk'hwsjug,wrjcwegwqdxk'hwgigcwhqjmaqhwhj
ymhwhqgwamkwzkwhqgwsdkjg,wjcwdwrzoqzka-nzkg,wjcwdkbhqzkawhjwgdhpw Eg
edowzkwcmhqgcwhjjwumsqwjrwdwoegdhwhjwhqzktwjrwojwudkbwhqzkaopw Zhwedck'h
ajjxw.mxaugkhwhjwymhw_gigcbhqzka_wjkwhqgwcdrhp

ZrwhqgwugkwegkhwhjwhqgwzondkxwZw.mohwgfygshwhqgbwrjmkxwhqgwsduywrzcgwZ
 mznh,wdkxwedhsqgxwzhwdnnwkzaqhwrjcw.zuwhjwsjugpw Dkbedbo,whqgbwohdbgx
dedbwrcjuwmo,wdkxwzrwubw mznxzkawhqgwrzcgwkgigcwrjjngxwhqguwzhwedck'hwkj
rdmnhwjrwuzkgpw ZwyndbgxwzhwdownjewxjekwjkwhqguwdowZwsjmnxp

Eqgkwhqgwrzcohwohcgdtwjrwxdbw gadkwhjwoqjewegwhzgxwmywhjwdwhjeqgdxwzkwd
 zaw gkxwjkwhqgwZnnzkjzowozxg,wdkxwqdstgxwjrrwsjhhjkejjxw cdksqgowezhq
hqgwqdhsqgh,wdkxwsjigcgxwmywhqgwcdrhwezhqwhqguwojwoqgwnjjtgxwnztgwhqgcg
qdxw ggkwdwsdig-zkwzkwhqgw dktwhqgcgpw Dwhje-qgdxwzowdwodkx dcwhqdhwqdo
sjhhjkejjxowjkwzhwdowhqzstwdowqdccje-hgghqp

EgwqdxwujmkhdzkowjkwhqgwUzoojmczwoqjcgwdkxwqgdibwhzu gcwjkwhqgwZnnzkjzo
ozxg,wdkxwhqgwsqdkkgnwedowxjekwhqgwUzoojmczwoqjcgwdhwhqdhwyndsg,wojweg
edck'hwdrcdzxwjrwdkb jxbwcmkkzkawdscjoowmopw Egwndzxwhqgcgwdnnwxdb,
dkxwedhsqgxwhqgwcdrhowdkxwohgdu jdhowoyzkwxjekwhqgwUzoojmczwoqjcg,wdkx
my- jmkxwohgdu jdhowrzaqhwhqgw zawczigcwzkwhqgwuzxxngpw Zwhjnxw.zuwdnn
d jmhwhqgwhzugwZwqdxw.d  gczkawezhqwhqdhwejudk;wdkxw.zuwodzxwoqgwedo
dwoudchwjkg,wdkxwzrwoqgwedowhjwohdchwdrhgcwmowqgcognrwoqgwejmnxk'hwogh
xjekwdkxwedhsqwdwsduywrzcg--kj,wozc,woqg'xwrghsqwdwxjapw Egnn,whqgk,wZ
odzx,weqbwsjmnxk'hwoqgwhgnnwqgcwqmo dkxwhjwrghsqwdwxja?w .zuwodzxwqg
 ghwoqgwxzxwhqzktwjrwzhw bwhqgwhzugwhqgwugkwedowcgdxbwhjwohdch,wdkxwqg
 gnzgigxwhqgbwumohwdwajkgwmy-hjekwhjwaghwdwxjawdkxwojwhqgbwnjohwdnnwhqdh
hzug,wjcwgnogwegwejmnxk'hw gwqgcgwjkwdwhjeqgdxwozfhggkwjcwogigkhggkwuzng
 gnjewhqgwiznndag--kj,wzkxggxb,wegwejmnxw gwzkwhqdhwodugwjnxwhjekwdadzkp
 OjwZwodzxwZwxzxk'hwsdcgweqdhwedowhqgwcgdojkwhqgbwxzxk'hwaghwmowdownjka
dowhqgbwxzxk'hp

Eqgkwzhwedow gazkkzkawhjwsjugwjkwxdctwegwyjtgxwjmcwqgdxowjmhwjrwhqg
sjhhjkejjxwhqzstgh,wdkxwnjjtgxwmywdkxwxjekwdkxwdscjoo;wkjhqzkawzkwozaqh;
ojw.zuwhjjtwmywojugwjrwhqgwhjywyndktowjrwhqgwcdrhwdkxw mznhwdwokma
ezaeduwhjwaghwmkxgcwzkw ndlzkawegdhqgcwdkxwcdzkb,wdkxwhjwtggywhqgwhqzkao
xcbpw.zuwudxgwdwrnjjcwrjcwhqgwezaedu,wdkxwcdzogxwzhwdwrjjhwjcwujcgwd jig
hqgwngignwjrwhqgwcdrh,wojwkjewhqgw ndktghowdkxwdnnwhqgwhcdyowedowjmhwjr
cgdsqwjrwohgdu jdhwedigopw Czaqhwzkwhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwezaeduwegwudxgwd
ndbgcwjrwxzchwd jmhwrzigwjcwozfwzksqgowxggywezhqwdwrcdugwdcjmkxwzhwrjc
hjwqjnxwzhwhjwzhowyndsg;whqzowedowhjw mznxwdwrzcgwjkwzkwonjyybwegdhqgc
jcwsqznnb;whqgwezaeduwejmnxwtggywzhwrcjuw gzkawoggkpw Egwudxgwdkwgfhcd
ohggczka-jdc,whjj,w gsdmogwjkgwjrwhqgwjhqgcowuzaqhwaghw cjtgwjkwdwokda
jcwojughqzkapwEgwrzfgxwmywdwoqjchwrjctgxwohzstwhjwqdkawhqgwjnxwndkhgck
jk,w gsdmogwegwumohwdnedbownzaqhwhqgwndkhgckweqgkgigcwegwoggwdwohgdu jdh
sjuzkawxjek-ohcgdu,whjwtggywrcjuwaghhzkawcmkwjigc;w mhwegwejmnxk'hwqdig
hjwnzaqhwzhwrjcwmy-ohcgduw jdhowmkngoowegwoggwegwedowzkweqdhwhqgbwsdnn
dw“scjoozka”;wrjcwhqgwczigcwedowycghhbwqzaqwbgh,wigcbwnjew dktow gzka
ohznnwdwnzhhngwmkxgcwedhgc;wojwmy- jmkxw jdhowxzxk'hwdnedbowcmkwhqg
sqdkkgn,w mhwqmkhgxwgdobwedhgcp

Hqzowogsjkxwkzaqhwegwcmkw gheggkwogigkwdkxwgzaqhwqjmco,wezhqwdwsmccgkh
hqdhwedowudtzkawjigcwrjmcwuzngwdkwqjmcpw Egwsdhsqgxwrzoqwdkxwhdntgx,
dkxwegwhjjtwdwoezuwkjewdkxwhqgkwhjwtggywjrrwonggyzkgoopw Zhwedowtzkxwjr
ojnguk,wxczrhzkawxjekwhqgw za,wohznnwczigc,wndbzkawjkwjmcw dstownjjtzka
mywdhwhqgwohdco,wdkxwegwxzxk'hwgigcwrggnwnztgwhdntzkawnjmx,wdkxwzh
edck'hwjrhgkwhqdhwegwndmaqgx--jknbwdwnzhhngwtzkxwjrwdwnjewsqmstngpw Eg
qdxwuzaqhbwajjxwegdhqgcwdowdwagkgcdnwhqzka,wdkxwkjhqzkawgigcwqdyygkgxwhj
mowdhwdnn--hqdhwkzaqh,wkjcwhqgwkgfh,wkjcwhqgwkgfhp

Gigcbwkzaqhwegwydoogxwhjeko,wojugwjrwhqguwdedbwmywjkw ndstwqznnozxgo,
kjhqzkaw mhw.mohwdwoqzkbw gxwjrwnzaqho;wkjhwdwqjmogwsjmnxwbjmwoggpw Hqg
rzrhqwkzaqhwegwydoogxwOhpwNjmzo,wdkxwzhwedownztgwhqgweqjngwejcnxwnzhwmyp
ZkwOhpwYghgco mcawhqgbwmogxwhjwodbwhqgcgwedowhegkhbwjcwhqzchbwhqjmodkx
ygjyngwzkwOhpwNjmzo,w mhwZwkgigcw gnzgigxwzhwhznnwZwoggwhqdhwejkxgcrmn
oycgdxwjrwnzaqhowdhwhejwj'snjstwhqdhwohznnwkzaqhpw Hqgcgwedck'hwdwojmkx
hqgcg;wgigcb jxbwedowdonggyp

GigcbwkzaqhwkjewZwmogxwhjwonzywdoqjcgwhjedcxowhgkwj'snjstwdhwojugwnzhhng
iznndag,wdkxw mbwhgkwjcwrzrhggkwsgkho'wejchqwjrwugdnwjcw dsjkwjcwjhqgc
ohmrrwhjwgdh;wdkxwojughzugowZwnzrhgxwdwsqzstgkwhqdhwedck'hwcjjohzka
sjurjchd ng,wdkxwhjjtwqzuwdnjkapw Ydywdnedbowodzx,whdtgwdwsqzstgkweqgk
bjmwaghwdwsqdksg,w gsdmogwzrwbjmwxjk'hwedkhwqzuwbjmcognrwbjmwsdkwgdob
rzkxwojug jxbwhqdhwxjgo,wdkxwdwajjxwxggxwdzk'hwgigcwrjcajhpw Zwkgigcwogg
ydyweqgkwqgwxzxk'hwedkhwhqgwsqzstgkwqzuognr,w mhwhqdhwzoweqdhwqgwmogxwhj
odb,wdkbedbp

Ujckzkaow grjcgwxdbnzaqhwZwonzyygxwzkhjwsjckrzgnxowdkxw jccjegxwd
edhgcugnjk,wjcwdwumoqugnjk,wjcwdwymktzk,wjcwojugwkgewsjck,wjcwhqzkaowjr
hqdhwtzkxpw Ydywdnedbowodzxwzhwedck'hwkjwqdcuwhjw jccjewhqzkaowzrwbjm
edowugdkzkawhjwydbwhqguw dstwojugwhzug;w mhwhqgwezxjewodzxwzhwedck'h
dkbhqzkaw mhwdwojrhwkdugwrjcwohgdnzka,wdkxwkjwxgsgkhw jxbwejmnxwxjwzhp
 .zuwodzxwqgwcgstjkgxwhqgwezxjewedowydchnbwczaqhwdkxwydywedowydchnb
czaqh;wojwhqgw gohwedbwejmnxw gwrjcwmowhjwyzstwjmhwhejwjcwhqcggwhqzkao
rcjuwhqgwnzohwdkxwodbwegwejmnxk'hw jccjewhqguwdkbwujcg--hqgkwqgwcgstjkgx
zhwejmnxk'hw gwkjwqdcuwhjw jccjewhqgwjhqgcopw Ojwegwhdntgxwzhwjigcwdnn
jkgwkzaqh,wxczrhzkawdnjkawxjekwhqgwczigc,whcbzkawhjwudtgwmywjmcwuzkxo
eqghqgcwhjwxcjywhqgwedhgcugnjko,wjcwhqgwsdkhgnjygo,wjcwhqgwumoqugnjko,
jcweqdhpw  mhwhjedcxowxdbnzaqhwegwajhwzhwdnnwoghhngxwodhzordshjcb,wdkx
sjksnmxgxwhjwxcjywscd dyyngowdkxwy'ozuujkopw Egwedck'hwrggnzkaw.moh
czaqhw grjcgwhqdh,w mhwzhwedowdnnwsjurjchd ngwkjepw Zwedowandxwhqgwedb
zhwsjugwjmh,whjj,w gsdmogwscd dyyngowdzk'hwgigcwajjx,wdkxwhqgwy'ozuujko
ejmnxk'hw gwczygwrjcwhejwjcwhqcggwujkhqowbghp

Egwoqjhwdwedhgc-rjenwkjewdkxwhqgkwhqdhwajhwmywhjjwgdcnbwzkwhqgwujckzka
jcwxzxk'hwajwhjw gxwgdcnbwgkjmaqwzkwhqgwgigkzkapw Hdtgwzhwdnnwcjmkx,weg
nzigxwycghhbwqzaqp

Hqgwrzrhqwkzaqhw gnjewOhpwNjmzowegwqdxwdw zawohjcuwdrhgcwuzxkzaqh,wezhq
dwyjegcwjrwhqmkxgcwdkxwnzaqhkzka,wdkxwhqgwcdzkwyjmcgxwxjekwzkwdwojnzx
oqgghpwEgwohdbgxwzkwhqgwezaeduwdkxwnghwhqgwcdrhwhdtgwsdcgwjrwzhognrp
Eqgkwhqgwnzaqhkzkawandcgxwjmhwegwsjmnxwoggwdw zawohcdzaqhwczigcwdqgdx,
dkxwqzaq,wcjstbw nmrrowjkw jhqwozxgopw  bwdkxw bwodbowZ,w“Qgn-_nj_,w.zu,
njjtbwbjkxgc!”wZhwedowdwohgdu jdhwhqdhwqdxwtznngxwqgcognrwjkwdwcjstp
 Egwedowxczrhzkawohcdzaqhwxjekwrjcwqgcpw Hqgwnzaqhkzkawoqjegxwqgcwigcb
xzohzkshpw Oqgwedowngdkzkawjigc,wezhqwydchwjrwqgcwmyygcwxgstwd jig
edhgc,wdkxwbjmwsjmnxwoggwgigcbwnzhhngwsqzu nb-ambwsngdkwdkxwsngdc,wdkxwd
sqdzcw bwhqgw zaw gnn,wezhqwdkwjnxwonjmsqwqdhwqdkazkawjkwhqgw dstwjrwzh,
eqgkwhqgwrndoqgowsjugp

Egnn,wzhw gzkawdedbwzkwhqgwkzaqhwdkxwohjcub,wdkxwdnnwojwubohgczjmo-nztg,
Zwrgnhw.mohwhqgwedbwdkbwjhqgcw jbwejmnxwdwrgnhweqgkwZwoggwhqdhwecgst
ndbzkawhqgcgwojwujmckrmnwdkxwnjkgojugwzkwhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwczigcpw Z
edkhgxwhjwaghwd jdcxwjrwqgcwdkxwonzktwdcjmkxwdwnzhhng,wdkxwoggweqdh
hqgcgwedowhqgcgpw OjwZwodbo:

“Ng'owndkxwjkwqgc,w.zup”

 mhw.zuwedowxgdxwdadzkohwzhwdhwrzcohpw Qgwodbo:

“Zwxjdk'wedkhwhjwajwrjjn'kw'njkawgcwkjwecdstpw Eg'owxjzk'w ndug'wegnn,
gkwegw ghhgcwnghw ndug'wegnnwdnjkg,wdowxgwajjxw jjtwodbopw Nztgwdowkjh
xgb'owdwedhsqudkwjkwxdhwecdstp”

“Edhsqudkwbjmcwacdkxujhqgc,”wZwodbo;w“hqgcgwdzk'hwkjhqzkawhjwedhsqw mh
hqgwhgfdowdkxwhqgwyznjh-qjmog;wdkxwxjwbjmwcgstjkwdkb jxb'owajzkawhjwcgot
qzownzrgwrjcwdwhgfdowdkxwdwyznjh-qjmogwomsqwdwkzaqhwdowhqzo,weqgk
zh'ownztgnbwhjw cgdtwmywdkxwedoqwjrrwxjekwhqgwczigcwdkbwuzkmhg?”w .zu
sjmnxk'hwodbwkjhqzkawhjwhqdh,wojwqgwxzxk'hwhcbpww“Dkxw gozxgo,”wZwodbo,
“egwuzaqhw jccjewojughqzkawejchqwqdizkawjmhwjrwhqgwsdyhdzk'owohdhgcjjup
 Oggadco,wZw ghwbjm--dkxwsjohwrzigwsgkhowdyzgsg,wojnzxwsdoqpw Ohgdu jdh
sdyhdzkowzowdnedbowczsq,wdkxwaghwozfhbwxjnndcowdwujkhq,wdkxw_hqgb_wxjk'h
sdcgwdwsgkhweqdhwdwhqzkawsjoho,wbjmwtkje,wnjkawdowhqgbwedkhwzhpw Ohzstwd
sdkxngwzkwbjmcwyjstgh;wZwsdk'hwcgoh,w.zu,whznnwegwazigwqgcwdwcmuudazkap
 XjwbjmwcgstjkwHjuwOdebgcwejmnxwgigcwajw bwhqzowhqzka?w Kjhwrjcwyzg,wqg
ejmnxk'hpwQg'xwsdnnwzhwdkwdxigkhmcg--hqdh'oweqdhwqg'xwsdnnwzh;wdkxwqg'x
ndkxwjkwhqdhwecgstwzrwzhwedowqzowndohwdshpw Dkxwejmnxk'hwqgwhqcjewohbng
zkhjwzh?--ejmnxk'hwqgwoycgdxwqzuognr,wkjcwkjhqzka?w Eqb,wbjm'xwhqzktwzh
edowSqczohjyqgcwS'nmu mowxzosjigczkawTzkaxju-Sjugpw ZwezoqwHjuwOdebgc
_edo_wqgcgp”

.zuwqgwacmu ngxwdwnzhhng,w mhwazigwzkpw Qgwodzxwegwumohk'hwhdntwdkbwujcg
hqdkwegwsjmnxwqgny,wdkxwhqgkwhdntwuzaqhbwnjepw Hqgwnzaqhkzkawoqjegxwmo
hqgwecgstwdadzkw.mohwzkwhzug,wdkxwegwrghsqgxwhqgwohd  jdcxwxgcczst,wdkx
udxgwrdohwhqgcgp

Hqgwxgstwedowqzaqwjmhwqgcgpw Egwegkhwokgdtzkawxjekwhqgwonjygwjrwzhwhj
nd  jdcx,wzkwhqgwxdct,whjedcxowhqgwhgfdo,wrggnzkawjmcwedbwonjewezhqwjmc
rggh,wdkxwoycgdxzkawjmcwqdkxowjmhwhjwrgkxwjrrwhqgwambo,wrjcwzhwedowoj
xdctwegwsjmnxk'hwoggwkjwozakwjrwhqgupw Ycghhbwojjkwegwohcmstwhqgwrjcedcx
gkxwjrwhqgwotbnzaqh,wdkxwsnmu wjkwhjwzh;wdkxwhqgwkgfhwohgywrghsqgxwmowzk
rcjkhwjrwhqgwsdyhdzk'owxjjc,weqzsqwedowjygk,wdkxw bw.zuuzkb,wdedbwxjek
hqcjmaqwhqgwhgfdo-qdnnwegwoggwdwnzaqh!wdkxwdnnwzkwhqgwodugwogsjkxweg
ogguwhjwqgdcwnjewijzsgowzkwbjkxgc!

.zuweqzoygcgxwdkxwodzxwqgwedowrggnzkawyjegcrmnwozst,wdkxwhjnxwugwhjwsjug
dnjkapw Zwodbo,wdnnwczaqh,wdkxwedowajzkawhjwohdchwrjcwhqgwcdrh;w mhw.moh
hqgkwZwqgdcxwdwijzsgwedznwjmhwdkxwodb:

“Jq,wyngdogwxjk'h,w jbo;wZwoegdcwZwejk'hwgigcwhgnn!”

Dkjhqgcwijzsgwodzx,wycghhbwnjmx:

“Zh'owdwnzg,w.zuwHmckgcpw Bjm'igwdshgxwhqzowedbw grjcgpw Bjmwdnedbowedkh
ujcg'kwbjmcwoqdcgwjrwhqgwhcmst,wdkxwbjm'igwdnedbowajhwzh,whjj,w gsdmog
bjm'igwoejcgw'hwzrwbjmwxzxk'hwbjm'xwhgnnpw  mhwhqzowhzugwbjm'igwodzx
zhw.gohwjkgwhzugwhjjwudkbpw Bjm'cgwhqgwugdkgoh,whcgdsqgcjmogohwqjmkxwzk
hqzowsjmkhcbp”

 bwhqzowhzugw.zuwedowajkgwrjcwhqgwcdrhpw Zwedow.mohwd- znzkawezhq
smczjozhb;wdkxwZwodbowhjwubognr,wHjuwOdebgcwejmnxk'hw dstwjmhwkje,
dkxwojwZwejk'hwgzhqgc;wZ'uwd-ajzkawhjwoggweqdh'owajzkawjkwqgcgpw OjwZ
xcjyygxwjkwubwqdkxowdkxwtkggowzkwhqgwnzhhngwydoodag,wdkxwscgyhwdrh
zkwhqgwxdctwhznnwhqgcgwedck'hw mhwjkgwohdhgcjjuw ghezfhwugwdkxwhqg
scjoo-qdnnwjrwhqgwhgfdopw HqgkwzkwhqgcgwZwoggwdwudkwohcghsqgxwjkwhqg
rnjjcwdkxwhzgxwqdkxwdkxwrjjh,wdkxwhejwugkwohdkxzkawjigcwqzu,wdkxwjkg
jrwhqguwqdxwdwxzuwndkhgckwzkwqzowqdkx,wdkxwhqgwjhqgcwjkgwqdxwdwyzohjnp
 Hqzowjkgwtgyhwyjzkhzkawhqgwyzohjnwdhwhqgwudk'owqgdxwjkwhqgwrnjjc,wdkx
odbzka:

“Z'xw_nztg_whj!w DkxwZwjchgc,whjj--dwugdkwotmkt!”

Hqgwudkwjkwhqgwrnjjcwejmnxwoqczignwmywdkxwodb,w“Jq,wyngdogwxjk'h,w znn;
Zwqdzk'hwgigcwajzk'whjwhgnnp”

Dkxwgigcbwhzugwqgwodzxwhqdhwhqgwudkwezhqwhqgwndkhgckwejmnxwndmaqwdkx
odb:

“'Xggxwbjmw_dzk'h!_w Bjmwkgigcwodzxwkjwhcmgcwhqzkaw'kwhqdh,wbjmw gh
bjmp”wDkxwjksgwqgwodzx:ww“Qgdcwqzuw ga!wdkxwbzhwzrwegwqdxk'hwajhwhqg
 gohwjrwqzuwdkxwhzgxwqzuwqg'xwdwtznngxwmow jhqpw Dkxweqdhw_rjc_?w .zoh
rjcwkjhq'kpw.zohw gsdmogwegwohjjxwjkwjmcw_czaqho_--hqdh'oweqdhwrjcpw  mh
Zwndbwbjmwdzk'hwd-ajzk'whjwhqcgdhgkwkj jxbwdkbwujcg,w.zuwHmckgcpw Ymh
_my_whqdhwyzohjn,w znnp”

 znnwodbo:

“Zwxjk'hwedkhwhj,w.dtgwYdstdcxpw Z'uwrjcwtznnzk'wqzu--dkxwxzxk'hwqgwtznn
jnxwQdhrzgnxw.zohwhqgwodugwedb--dkxwxjk'hwqgwxgogcigwzh?”

“ mhwZwxjk'hw_edkh_wqzuwtznngx,wdkxwZ'igwajhwubwcgdojkowrjcwzhp”

“ ngoowbj'wqgdchwrjcwhqguwejcxo,w.dtgwYdstdcx!w Z'nnwkgigcwrjcazhwbjm
njka'owZwnzig!”wodbowhqgwudkwjkwhqgwrnjjc,wojchwjrw nm  gczkap

Ydstdcxwxzxk'hwhdtgwkjwkjhzsgwjrwhqdh,w mhwqmkawmywqzowndkhgckwjkwdwkdzn
dkxwohdchgxwhjedcxoweqgcgwZwedowhqgcgwzkwhqgwxdct,wdkxwujhzjkgxw znn
hjwsjugpw ZwscderzoqgxwdowrdohwdowZwsjmnxwd jmhwhejwbdcxo,w mhwhqgw jdh
ondkhgxwojwhqdhwZwsjmnxk'hwudtgwigcbwajjxwhzug;wojwhjwtggywrcjuwaghhzka
cmkwjigcwdkxwsdhsqgxwZwscdengxwzkhjwdwohdhgcjjuwjkwhqgwmyygcwozxgp
 Hqgwudkwsdugwd-ydezkawdnjkawzkwhqgwxdct,wdkxweqgkwYdstdcxwajhwhjwub
ohdhgcjju,wqgwodbo:

“Qgcg--sjugwzkwqgcgp”

Dkxwzkwqgwsjug,wdkxw znnwdrhgcwqzupw  mhw grjcgwhqgbwajhwzkwZwedowmy
zkwhqgwmyygcw gchq,wsjckgcgx,wdkxwojccbwZwsjugpw Hqgkwhqgbwohjjxwhqgcg,
ezhqwhqgzcwqdkxowjkwhqgwngxagwjrwhqgw gchq,wdkxwhdntgxpw Zwsjmnxk'hwogg
hqgu,w mhwZwsjmnxwhgnnweqgcgwhqgbwedow bwhqgweqzotbwhqgb'xw ggkwqdizkap
 ZwedowandxwZwxzxk'hwxczktweqzotb;w mhwzhwejmnxk'hwudxgwumsqwxzrrgcgksg
dkbedb,w gsdmogwujohwjrwhqgwhzugwhqgbwsjmnxk'hwdwhcggxwugw gsdmogwZ
xzxk'hw cgdhqgpw Zwedowhjjwosdcgxpw Dkx,w gozxgo,wdw jxbw_sjmnxk'h_
 cgdhqgwdkxwqgdcwomsqwhdntpw Hqgbwhdntgxwnjewdkxwgdckgohpw  znnwedkhgx
hjwtznnwHmckgcpw Qgwodbo:

“Qg'owodzxwqg'nnwhgnn,wdkxwqgweznnpw Zrwegwedowhjwazigw jhqwjmcwoqdcgo
hjwqzuw_kje_wzhwejmnxk'hwudtgwkjwxzrrgcgksgwdrhgcwhqgwcjewdkxwhqgwedb
eg'igwogcigxwqzupw Oqjcg'owbjm'cgw jck,wqg'nnwhmckwOhdhg'owgizxgksg;wkje
bjmwqgdcw_ug_pw Z'uwrjcwymhhzkawqzuwjmhwjrwqzowhcjm ngop”

“Oj'uwZ,”wodbowYdstdcx,wigcbwvmzghp

“ ndugwzh,wZ'xwojchgcw gamkwhjwhqzktwbjmwedok'hpw Egnn,whqgk,whqdh'owdnn
czaqhpw Ng'owajwdkxwxjwzhp”

“Qjnxwjkwdwuzkmhg;wZwqdzk'hwqdxwubwodbwbzhpw Bjmwnzohgkwhjwugp
Oqjjhzka'owajjx,w mhwhqgcg'owvmzghgcwedbowzrwhqgwhqzka'ow_ajh_whjw g
xjkgpw mhweqdhwZwodbwzowhqzo:w zhwdzk'hwajjxwogkogwhjwajwsjmch'kwdcjmkx
drhgcwdwqdnhgcwzrwbjmwsdkwazhwdhweqdhwbjm'cgwmywhjwzkwojugwedbwhqdh'o
.zohwdowajjxwdkxwdhwhqgwodugwhzugwxjk'hw czkawbjmwzkhjwkjwcgotopw Dzk'h
hqdhwoj?”

“Bjmw ghwzhwzopw  mhwqjewbjmwajzk'whjwudkdagwzhwhqzowhzug?”

“Egnn,wubwzxgdwzowhqzo:w eg'nnwcmohngwdcjmkxwdkxwadhqgcwmyweqdhgigc
yzstzkoweg'igwjigcnjjtgxwzkwhqgwohdhgcjjuo,wdkxwoqjigwrjcwoqjcgwdkxwqzxg
hqgwhcmstpwHqgkweg'nnwedzhpw KjewZwodbwzhwdzk'hwd-ajzk'whjw gwujcg'kwhej
qjmcow grj'whqzowecdstw cgdtowmywdkxwedoqgowjrrwxjekwhqgwczigcpw Ogg?
Qg'nnw gwxcjekxgx,wdkxwejk'hwqdigwkj jxbwhjw ndugwrjcwzhw mhwqzowjek
ognrpw Zwcgstjkwhqdh'owdwsjkozxgc ngwozaqhw ghhgcw'kwtznnzk'wjrwqzup
 Z'uwmkrdijcd ngwhjwtznnzk'wdwudkwdownjkawdowbjmwsdkwazhwdcjmk'wzh;wzh
dzk'hwajjxwogkog,wzhwdzk'hwajjxwujcdnopw Dzk'hwZwczaqh?”

“Bgo,wZwcgst'kwbjmwdcgpw  mhwo'yjogwoqgw_xjk'h_w cgdtwmywdkxwedoqwjrr?”

“Egnn,wegwsdkwedzhwhqgwhejwqjmcowdkbedbwdkxwogg,wsdk'hweg?”

“Dnnwczaqh,whqgk;wsjugwdnjkap”

Ojwhqgbwohdchgx,wdkxwZwnzhwjmh,wdnnwzkwdwsjnxwoegdh,wdkxwoscdu ngx
rjcedcxpwZhwedowxdctwdowyzhsqwhqgcg;w mhwZwodzx,wzkwdwtzkxwjrwdwsjdcog
eqzoygc,w“.zu!”wdkxwqgwdkoegcgxwmy,wczaqhwdhwubwgn je,wezhqwdwojchwjrwd
ujdk,wdkxwZwodbo:

“Vmzst,w.zu,wzhwdzk'hwkjwhzugwrjcwrjjnzkawdcjmkxwdkxwujdkzka;whqgcg'owd
adkawjrwumcxgcgcowzkwbjkxgc,wdkxwzrwegwxjk'hwqmkhwmywhqgzcw jdhwdkxwogh
qgcwxczrhzkawxjekwhqgwczigcwojwhqgogwrgnnjeowsdk'hwaghwdedbwrcjuwhqg
ecgstwhqgcg'owjkgwjrw'guwajzkawhjw gwzkwdw dxwrzfpw  mhwzrwegwrzkxwhqgzc
 jdhwegwsdkwymhw_dnn_wjrw'guwzkwdw dxwrzf--rjcwhqgwoqgczrrw'nnwaghw'gup
Vmzst--qmccb!w Z'nnwqmkhwhqgwnd  jdcxwozxg,wbjmwqmkhwhqgwohd  jdcxpwBjm
ohdchwdhwhqgwcdrh,wdkx--”

“Jq,wubwnjcxb,wnjcxb!w _cdr'_?w Xgbwdzk'wkjwcdr'wkjwuj';woqgwxjkgw cjtg
njjogwgkwajkgwZ--gkwqgcgwegwzo!”




SQDYHGCwFZZZp

EGNN,wZwsdhsqgxwubw cgdhqwdkxwujohwrdzkhgxpw Oqmhwmywjkwdwecgstwezhq
omsqwdwadkawdowhqdh!w  mhwzhwedck'hwkjwhzugwhjw gwogkhzugkhgczkapw Eg'x
_ajh_whjwrzkxwhqdhw jdhwkje--qdxwhjwqdigwzhwrjcwjmcognigopw Ojwegwegkh
d-vmdtzkawdkxwoqdtzkawxjekwhqgwohd  jdcxwozxg,wdkxwonjewejctwzhwedo,
hjj--oggugxwdweggtw grjcgwegwajhwhjwhqgwohgckpw Kjwozakwjrwdw jdhpw .zu
odzxwqgwxzxk'hw gnzgigwqgwsjmnxwajwdkbwrmchqgc--ojwosdcgxwqgwqdxk'h
qdcxnbwdkbwohcgkahqwngrh,wqgwodzxpw  mhwZwodzx,wsjugwjk,wzrwegwaghwngrh
jkwhqzowecgstwegwdcgwzkwdwrzf,womcgpw Ojwjkwegwycjengxwdadzkpw Egwohcmst
rjcwhqgwohgckwjrwhqgwhgfdo,wdkxwrjmkxwzh,wdkxwhqgkwoscd  ngxwdnjka
rjcedcxowjkwhqgwotbnzaqh,wqdkazkawjkwrcjuwoqmhhgcwhjwoqmhhgc,wrjcwhqg
gxagwjrwhqgwotbnzaqhwedowzkwhqgwedhgcpw Eqgkwegwajhwycghhbwsnjogwhjwhqg
scjoo-qdnnwxjjcwhqgcgwedowhqgwotzrr,womcgwgkjmaq!w Zwsjmnxw.mohw dcgnb
oggwqgcpw Zwrgnhwgigcwojwhqdktrmnpw ZkwdkjhqgcwogsjkxwZwejmnxwdw ggk
d jdcxwjrwqgc,w mhw.mohwhqgkwhqgwxjjcwjygkgxpw Jkgwjrwhqgwugkwohmstwqzo
qgdxwjmhwjknbwd jmhwdwsjmyngwjrwrjjhwrcjuwug,wdkxwZwhqjmaqhwZwedowajkg;
 mhwqgw.gctgxwzhwzkwdadzk,wdkxwodbo:

“Qgdigwhqdhw ndugwndkhgckwjmhwj'wozaqh,w znn!”

Qgwrnmkawdw dawjrwojughqzkawzkhjwhqgw jdh,wdkxwhqgkwajhwzkwqzuognrwdkx
oghwxjekpw ZhwedowYdstdcxpw Hqgkw znnw_qg_wsjugwjmhwdkxwajhwzkpw Ydstdcx
odbo,wzkwdwnjewijzsg:

“Dnnwcgdxb--oqjigwjrr!”

Zwsjmnxk'hwqdcxnbwqdkawjkwhjwhqgwoqmhhgco,wZwedowojwegdtpw  mhw znn
odbo:

“Qjnxwjk--'xwbjmwajwhqcjmaqwqzu?”

“Kjpw Xzxk'hwbjm?”

“Kjpw Ojwqg'owajhwqzowoqdcgwj'whqgwsdoqwbghp”

“Egnn,whqgk,wsjugwdnjka;wkjwmogwhjwhdtgwhcmstwdkxwngdigwujkgbp”

“Odb,wejk'hwqgwomoyzszjkweqdhweg'cgwmywhj?”

“Udb gwqgwejk'hpw  mhwegwajhwhjwqdigwzhwdkbedbpwSjugwdnjkap”

Ojwhqgbwajhwjmhwdkxwegkhwzkp

Hqgwxjjcwonduugxwhjw gsdmogwzhwedowjkwhqgwsdcggkgxwozxg;wdkxwzkwdwqdnr
ogsjkxwZwedowzkwhqgw jdh,wdkxw.zuwsjugwhmu nzkawdrhgcwugpw Zwjmhwezhqwub
tkzrgwdkxwsmhwhqgwcjyg,wdkxwdedbwegwegkh!

Egwxzxk'hwhjmsqwdkwjdc,wdkxwegwxzxk'hwoygdtwkjcweqzoygc,wkjcwqdcxnbwgigk
 cgdhqgpw Egwegkhwanzxzkawoezrhwdnjka,wxgdxwozngkh,wydohwhqgwhzywjrwhqg
ydxxng- jf,wdkxwydohwhqgwohgck;whqgkwzkwdwogsjkxwjcwhejwujcgwegwedowd
qmkxcgxwbdcxow gnjewhqgwecgst,wdkxwhqgwxdctkgoowojdtgxwqgcwmy,wgigcb
ndohwozakwjrwqgc,wdkxwegwedowodrg,wdkxwtkjegxwzhp

Eqgkwegwedowhqcggwjcwrjmcwqmkxcgxwbdcxowxjek-ohcgduwegwoggwhqgwndkhgck
oqjewnztgwdwnzhhngwoydctwdhwhqgwhgfdowxjjcwrjcwdwogsjkx,wdkxwegwtkjegx
 bwhqdhwhqdhwhqgwcdosdnowqdxwuzoogxwhqgzcw jdh,wdkxwedow gazkkzkawhj
mkxgcohdkxwhqdhwhqgbwedowzkw.mohwdowumsqwhcjm ngwkjewdow.zuwHmckgcwedop

Hqgkw.zuwudkkgxwhqgwjdco,wdkxwegwhjjtwjmhwdrhgcwjmcwcdrhpw Kjewedowhqg
rzcohwhzugwhqdhwZw gamkwhjwejccbwd jmhwhqgwugk--ZwcgstjkwZwqdxk'h
qdxwhzugwhjw grjcgpw Zw gamkwhjwhqzktwqjewxcgdxrmnwzhwedo,wgigkwrjc
umcxgcgco,whjw gwzkwomsqwdwrzfpw Zwodbowhjwubognr,whqgcgwdzk'hwkj
hgnnzkaw mhwZwuzaqhwsjugwhjw gwdwumcxgcgcwubognrwbgh,wdkxwhqgkwqjewejmnx
Zwnztgwzh?w OjwodbowZwhjw.zu:

“Hqgwrzcohwnzaqhwegwoggweg'nnwndkxwdwqmkxcgxwbdcxow gnjewzhwjcwd jig
zh,wzkwdwyndsgweqgcgwzh'owdwajjxwqzxzka-yndsgwrjcwbjmwdkxwhqgwotzrr,wdkx
hqgkwZ'nnwajwdkxwrzfwmywojugwtzkxwjrwdwbdck,wdkxwaghwojug jxbwhjwajwrjc
hqdhwadkawdkxwaghwhqguwjmhwjrwhqgzcwoscdyg,wojwhqgbwsdkw gwqmkaweqgk
hqgzcwhzugwsjugop”

 mhwhqdhwzxgdwedowdwrdznmcg;wrjcwycghhbwojjkwzhw gamkwhjwohjcuwdadzk,
dkxwhqzowhzugwejcogwhqdkwgigcpw Hqgwcdzkwyjmcgxwxjek,wdkxwkgigcwdwnzaqh
oqjegx;wgigcb jxbwzkw gx,wZwcgstjkpw Egw jjugxwdnjkawxjekwhqgwczigc,
edhsqzkawrjcwnzaqhowdkxwedhsqzkawrjcwjmcwcdrhpw Drhgcwdwnjkawhzugwhqg
cdzkwnghwmy,w mhwhqgwsnjmxowohdbgx,wdkxwhqgwnzaqhkzkawtgyhweqzuygczka,
dkxw bwdkxw bwdwrndoqwoqjegxwmowdw ndstwhqzkawdqgdx,wrnjdhzka,wdkxweg
udxgwrjcwzhp

Zhwedowhqgwcdrh,wdkxwuzaqhbwandxwedowegwhjwaghwd jdcxwjrwzhwdadzkpw Eg
oggkwdwnzaqhwkjewdedbwxjekwhjwhqgwczaqh,wjkwoqjcgpw OjwZwodzxwZwejmnx
ajwrjcwzhpwHqgwotzrrwedowqdnrwrmnnwjrwynmkxgcweqzsqwhqdhwadkawqdxwohjng
hqgcgwjkwhqgwecgstpw Egwqmohngxwzhwjkwhjwhqgwcdrhwzkwdwyzng,wdkxwZwhjnx
.zuwhjwrnjdhwdnjkawxjek,wdkxwoqjewdwnzaqhweqgkwqgw.mxagxwqgwqdxwajkg
d jmhwhejwuzng,wdkxwtggywzhw mckzkawhznnwZwsjug;whqgkwZwudkkgxwubwjdco
dkxwoqjigxwrjcwhqgwnzaqhpw DowZwajhwxjekwhjedcxowzhwhqcggwjcwrjmcwujcg
oqjegx--mywjkwdwqznnozxgpw Zhwedowdwiznndagpw Zwsnjogxwzkwd jigwhqgwoqjcg
nzaqh,wdkxwndzxwjkwubwjdcowdkxwrnjdhgxpw DowZwegkhw bwZwoggwzhwedowd
ndkhgckwqdkazkawjkwhqgw.dstohdrrwjrwdwxjm ng-qmnnwrgccb jdhpw Zwotzuugx
dcjmkxwrjcwhqgwedhsqudk,wd-ejkxgczkaweqgcgd jmhowqgwongyh;wdkxw bwdkx
 bwZwrjmkxwqzuwcjjohzkawjkwhqgw zhhowrjcedcx,wezhqwqzowqgdxwxjekw gheggk
qzowtkggopw Zwadigwqzowoqjmnxgcwhejwjcwhqcggwnzhhngwoqjigo,wdkxw gamkwhj
scbp

Qgwohzccgxwmywzkwdwtzkxwjrwdwohdchnzoqwedb;w mhweqgkwqgwoggwzhwedowjknb
ugwqgwhjjtwdwajjxwadywdkxwohcghsq,wdkxwhqgkwqgwodbo:

“Qgnnj,weqdh'owmy?w Xjk'hwscb,w m pw Eqdh'owhqgwhcjm ng?”

Zwodbo:

“Ydy,wdkxwudu,wdkxwozo,wdkx--”

HqgkwZw cjtgwxjekpw Qgwodbo:

“Jq,wxdkawzhwkje,w_xjk'h_whdtgwjkwoj;wegwdnnwqdowhjwqdigwjmcwhcjm ngo,
dkxwhqzow'kw'nnwsjugwjmhwdnnwczaqhpw Eqdh'owhqgwudhhgcwezhqw'gu?”

“Hqgb'cg--hqgb'cg--dcgwbjmwhqgwedhsqudkwjrwhqgw jdh?”

“Bgo,”wqgwodbo,wtzkxwjrwycghhb-egnn-odhzorzgxwnztgpww“Z'uwhqgwsdyhdzk
dkxwhqgwjekgcwdkxwhqgwudhgwdkxwhqgwyznjhwdkxwedhsqudkwdkxwqgdx
xgst-qdkx;wdkxwojughzugowZ'uwhqgwrcgzaqhwdkxwydoogkagcopw Zwdzk'hwdo
czsqwdowjnxw.zuwQjck dst,wdkxwZwsdk'hw gwojw ndug'wagkgcjmowdkxwajjx
hjwHju,wXzst,wdkxwQdccbwdoweqdhwqgwzo,wdkxwonduwdcjmkxwujkgbwhqgwedbwqg
xjgo;w mhwZ'igwhjnxwqzuwdwudkbwdwhzugw'hwZwejmnxk'hwhcdxgwyndsgowezhq
qzu;wrjc,wodbowZ,wdwodznjc'ownzrg'owhqgwnzrgwrjcwug,wdkxwZ'uwxgckgxwzr
_Z'x_wnzigwhejwuzngwjmhwj'whjek,weqgcgwhqgcgwdzk'hwkjhqzkawgigcwajzk'
jk,wkjhwrjcwdnnwqzowoyjkxmnzstowdkxwdowumsqwujcgwjkwhjywjrwzhpw OdbowZ--”

Zw cjtgwzkwdkxwodbo:

“Hqgb'cgwzkwdkwdermnwygstwjrwhcjm ng,wdkx--”

“_Eqj_wzo?”

“Eqb,wydywdkxwuduwdkxwozowdkxwUzoowQjjtgc;wdkxwzrwbjm'xwhdtgwbjmc
rgccb jdhwdkxwajwmywhqgcg--”

“Myweqgcg?w Eqgcgwdcgwhqgb?”

“Jkwhqgwecgstp”

“Eqdhwecgst?”

“Eqb,whqgcgwdzk'hw mhwjkgp”

“Eqdh,wbjmwxjk'hwugdkwhqgwEdnhgcwOsjhh?”

“Bgop”

“Ajjxwndkx!weqdhwdcgwhqgbwxjzk'w_hqgcg_,wrjcwacdszjmowodtgo?”

“Egnn,whqgbwxzxk'hwajwhqgcgwd-ymcyjogp”

“Zw ghwhqgbwxzxk'h!w Eqb,wacgdhwajjxkgoo,whqgcgwdzk'hwkjwsqdksgwrjcw'gu
zrwhqgbwxjk'hwazhwjrrwuzaqhbwvmzst!w Eqb,wqjewzkwhqgwkdhzjkwxzxwhqgb
gigcwazhwzkhjwomsqwdwoscdyg?”

“Gdobwgkjmaqpw UzoowQjjtgcwedowd-izozhzkawmywhqgcgwhjwhqgwhjek--”

“Bgo,w jjhq'owNdkxzka--ajwjkp”

“Oqgwedowd-izozhzkawhqgcgwdhw jjhq'owNdkxzka,wdkxw.mohwzkwhqgwgxagwjr
hqgwgigkzkawoqgwohdchgxwjigcwezhqwqgcwkzaagcwejudkwzkwhqgwqjcog-rgccb
hjwohdbwdnnwkzaqhwdhwqgcwrczgkx'owqjmog,wUzoowEqdh-bjm-udb-sdnn-qgcwZ
xzocgugu gcwqgcwkdug--dkxwhqgbwnjohwhqgzcwohggczka-jdc,wdkxwoemka
dcjmkxwdkxwegkhwd-rnjdhzkawxjek,wohgckwrzcoh,wd jmhwhejwuzng,wdkx
odxxng- daaogxwjkwhqgwecgst,wdkxwhqgwrgccbudkwdkxwhqgwkzaagcwejudkwdkx
hqgwqjcogowedowdnnwnjoh,w mhwUzoowQjjtgcwoqgwudxgwdwacd wdkxwajhwd jdcx
hqgwecgstpw Egnn,wd jmhwdkwqjmcwdrhgcwxdctwegwsjugwdnjkawxjekwzkwjmc
hcdxzka-osje,wdkxwzhwedowojwxdctwegwxzxk'hwkjhzsgwhqgwecgstwhznnwegwedo
czaqhwjkwzh;wdkxwojw_eg_wodxxng- daaogx;w mhwdnnwjrwmowedowodigxw mh
 znnwEqzyyng--dkxwjq,wqgw_edo_whqgw gohwscghmc!--Zwujohwezoqw'hwzhwqdx
 ggkwug,wZwxjp”

“UbwAgjcag!w Zh'owhqgw gdhgkgohwhqzkawZwgigcwohcmstpw Dkxw_hqgk_weqdh
xzxwbjmwdnnwxj?”

“Egnn,wegwqjnngcgxwdkxwhjjtwjk,w mhwzh'owojwezxgwhqgcgwegwsjmnxk'h
udtgwkj jxbwqgdcpw Ojwydywodzxwojug jxbwajhwhjwaghwdoqjcgwdkxwaghwqgny
ojugqjepwZwedowhqgwjknbwjkgwhqdhwsjmnxwoezu,wojwZwudxgwdwxdoqwrjcwzh,
dkxwUzoowQjjtgcwoqgwodzxwzrwZwxzxk'hwohcztgwqgnywojjkgc,wsjugwqgcgwdkx
qmkhwmywqgcwmksng,wdkxwqg'xwrzfwhqgwhqzkapw Zwudxgwhqgwndkxwd jmhwdwuzng
 gnje,wdkxw ggkwrjjnzkawdnjkawgigcwozksg,whcbzkawhjwaghwygjyngwhjwxj
ojughqzka,w mhwhqgbwodzx,w'Eqdh,wzkwomsqwdwkzaqhwdkxwomsqwdwsmccgkh?
Hqgcgwdzk'hwkjwogkogwzkwzh;wajwrjcwhqgwohgduwrgccbp'w Kjewzrwbjm'nnwaj
dkx--”

“ bw.dstojk,wZ'xw_nztg_whj,wdkx,w ndugwzh,wZwxjk'hwtkjew mhwZweznn;w mh
eqjwzkwhqgwxzkakdhzjk'owd-ajzka'whjw_ydb_wrjcwzh?w Xjwbjmwcgstjkwbjmc
ydy--”

“Eqbw_hqdh'o_wdnnwczaqhpw UzoowQjjtgcwoqgwhjngwug,w_ydchzsmndc_,whqdh
qgcwmksngwQjck dst--”

“Acgdhwamko!wzow_qg_wqgcwmksng?w Njjtbwqgcg,wbjmw cgdtwrjcwhqdhwnzaqh
jigcwbjkxgc-edb,wdkxwhmckwjmhwegohweqgkwbjmwazhwhqgcg,wdkxwd jmhwd
vmdchgcwjrwdwuzngwjmhwbjm'nnwsjugwhjwhqgwhdigck;whgnnw'guwhjwxdchwbjm
jmhwhjw.zuwQjck dst'o,wdkxwqg'nnwrjjhwhqgw znnpw Dkxwxjk'hwbjmwrjjn
dcjmkxwdkb,w gsdmogwqg'nnwedkhwhjwtkjewhqgwkgeopw HgnnwqzuwZ'nnwqdig
qzowkzgsgwdnnwodrgw grjcgwqgwsdkwaghwhjwhjekpw Qmuywbjmcognr,wkje;wZ'u
d-ajzkawmywdcjmkxwhqgwsjckgcwqgcgwhjwcjmohwjmhwubwgkazkggcp”

Zwohcmstwrjcwhqgwnzaqh,w mhwdowojjkwdowqgwhmckgxwhqgwsjckgcwZwegkhw dst
dkxwajhwzkhjwubwotzrrwdkxw dzngxwqgcwjmh,wdkxwhqgkwymnngxwmywoqjcgwzk
hqgwgdobwedhgcwd jmhwozfwqmkxcgxwbdcxo,wdkxwhmstgxwubognrwzkwdujka
ojugwejjx jdho;wrjcwZwsjmnxk'hwcgohwgdobwhznnwZwsjmnxwoggwhqgwrgccb jdh
ohdchpw mhwhdtgwzhwdnnwdcjmkx,wZwedowrggnzkawcmhqgcwsjurjchd ngwjk
dssjmkhowjrwhdtzkawdnnwhqzowhcjm ngwrjcwhqdhwadka,wrjcwkjhwudkbwejmnx
dwxjkgwzhpw Zwezoqgxwhqgwezxjewtkjegxwd jmhwzhpw Zw.mxagxwoqgwejmnxw g
ycjmxwjrwugwrjcwqgnyzkawhqgogwcdyosdnnzjko,w gsdmogwcdyosdnnzjkowdkx
xgdxw gdhowzowhqgwtzkxwhqgwezxjewdkxwajjxwygjyngwhdtgowhqgwujohwzkhgcgoh
zkp

Egnn,w grjcgwnjkawqgcgwsjugowhqgwecgst,wxzuwdkxwxmotb,wonzxzkawdnjka
xjek!wDwtzkxwjrwsjnxwoqzigcwegkhwhqcjmaqwug,wdkxwhqgkwZwohcmstwjmhwrjc
qgcpw Oqgwedowigcbwxggy,wdkxwZwoggwzkwdwuzkmhgwhqgcgwedck'hwumsqwsqdksg
rjcwdkb jxbw gzkawdnzigwzkwqgcpw Zwymnngxwdnnwdcjmkxwqgcwdkxwqjnngcgx
dwnzhhng,w mhwhqgcgwedok'hwdkbwdkoegc;wdnnwxgdxwohznnpw Zwrgnhwdwnzhhng
 zhwqgdib-qgdchgxwd jmhwhqgwadka,w mhwkjhwumsq,wrjcwZwcgstjkgxwzrwhqgb
sjmnxwohdkxwzhwZwsjmnxp

Hqgkwqgcgwsjugowhqgwrgccb jdh;wojwZwoqjigxwrjcwhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwczigc
jkwdwnjkawxjek-ohcgduwondkh;wdkxweqgkwZw.mxagxwZwedowjmhwjrwgbg-cgdsq
Zwndzxwjkwubwjdco,wdkxwnjjtgxw dstwdkxwoggwqgcwajwdkxwougnnwdcjmkxwhqg
ecgstwrjcwUzoowQjjtgc'owcgudzkxgco,w gsdmogwhqgwsdyhdzkwejmnxwtkjewqgc
mksngwQjck dstwejmnxwedkhwhqgu;wdkxwhqgkwycghhbwojjkwhqgwrgccb jdhwazig
zhwmywdkxwegkhwrjcwhqgwoqjcg,wdkxwZwndzxwzkhjwubwejctwdkxwegkhwd- jjuzka
xjekwhqgwczigcp

Zhwxzxwogguwdwyjegcrmnwnjkawhzugw grjcgw.zu'ownzaqhwoqjegxwmy;wdkxweqgk
zhwxzxwoqjewzhwnjjtgxwnztgwzhwedowdwhqjmodkxwuzngwjrrpw  bwhqgwhzugwZ
ajhwhqgcgwhqgwotbwedow gazkkzkawhjwaghwdwnzhhngwacdbwzkwhqgwgdoh;wojweg
ohcmstwrjcwdkwzondkx,wdkxwqzxwhqgwcdrh,wdkxwomktwhqgwotzrr,wdkxwhmckgx
zkwdkxwongyhwnztgwxgdxwygjyngp




SQDYHGCwFZIp

 Bwdkxw b,weqgkwegwajhwmy,wegwhmckgxwjigcwhqgwhcmstwhqgwadkawqdxwohjng
jrrwjrwhqgwecgst,wdkxwrjmkxw jjho,wdkxw ndktgho,wdkxwsnjhqgo,wdkxwdnn
ojchowjrwjhqgcwhqzkao,wdkxwdwnjhwjrw jjto,wdkxwdwoybandoo,wdkxwhqcgg
 jfgowjrwoggadcopw Egwqdxk'hwgigcw ggkwhqzowczsqw grjcgwzkwkgzhqgcwjr
jmcwnzigopw Hqgwoggadcowedowyczugpw Egwndzxwjrrwdnnwhqgwdrhgckjjkwzkwhqg
ejjxowhdntzka,wdkxwugwcgdxzkawhqgw jjto,wdkxwqdizkawdwagkgcdnwajjx
hzugpwZwhjnxw.zuwdnnwd jmhweqdhwqdyygkgxwzkozxgwhqgwecgstwdkxwdhwhqg
rgccb jdh,wdkxwZwodzxwhqgogwtzkxowjrwhqzkaowedowdxigkhmcgo;w mhwqgwodzx
qgwxzxk'hwedkhwkjwujcgwdxigkhmcgopw QgwodzxwhqdhweqgkwZwegkhwzkwhqg
hgfdowdkxwqgwscdengxw dstwhjwaghwjkwhqgwcdrhwdkxwrjmkxwqgcwajkgwqg
kgdcnbwxzgx,w gsdmogwqgw.mxagxwzhwedowdnnwmywezhqw_qzu_wdkbedbwzhwsjmnx
 gwrzfgx;wrjcwzrwqgwxzxk'hwaghwodigxwqgwejmnxwaghwxcjekxgx;wdkxwzrwqg
xzxwaghwodigx,weqjgigcwodigxwqzuwejmnxwogkxwqzuw dstwqjugwojwdowhjwagh
hqgwcgedcx,wdkxwhqgkwUzoowEdhojkwejmnxwognnwqzuwOjmhq,womcgpw Egnn,wqg
edowczaqh;wqgwedowujohwdnedbowczaqh;wqgwqdxwdkwmksjuujkwngignwqgdxwrjcwd
kzaagcp

Zwcgdxwsjkozxgcd ngwhjw.zuwd jmhwtzkaowdkxwxmtgowdkxwgdcnowdkxwomsq,wdkx
qjewadmxbwhqgbwxcgoogx,wdkxwqjewumsqwohbngwhqgbwymhwjk,wdkxwsdnngxwgdsq
jhqgcwbjmcwud.gohb,wdkxwbjmcwacdsg,wdkxwbjmcwnjcxoqzy,wdkxwojwjk,w'ohgdx
jrwuzohgc;wdkxw.zu'owgbgow maagxwjmh,wdkxwqgwedowzkhgcgohgxpw Qgwodbo:

“Zwxzxk'wtkjewxgbwedowojwudkbwmkwmupw Zwqdzk'hwqgdckw' jmhwkjkgwmkwmu,
otdognb,w mhwjngwTzkawOjnngcumk,wjkngoowbjmwsjmkhowxguwtzkaowxdh'owzkwd
ydstwgcwt'bdcxopw Qjewumsqwxjwdwtzkawazh?”

“Agh?”w Zwodbo;w“eqb,whqgbwaghwdwhqjmodkxwxjnndcowdwujkhqwzrwhqgbwedkh
zh;whqgbwsdkwqdigw.mohwdowumsqwdowhqgbwedkh;wgigcbhqzkaw gnjkaowhj
hqgup”

“_Dzk'_wxdhwadb?w Gkweqdhwxgbwajhwhjwxj,wQmst?”

“_Hqgb_wxjk'hwxjwkjhqzka!w Eqb,wqjewbjmwhdnt!wHqgbw.mohwoghwdcjmkxp”

“Kj;wzowxdhwoj?”

“Jrwsjmcogwzhwzopw Hqgbw.mohwoghwdcjmkx--gfsgyh,wudb g,weqgkwhqgcg'owd
edc;whqgkwhqgbwajwhjwhqgwedcpw  mhwjhqgcwhzugowhqgbw.mohwndlbwdcjmkx;wjc
ajwqdetzka--.mohwqdetzkawdkxwoy--Oq!--x'wbjmwqgdcwdwkjzog?”

Egwotzyygxwjmhwdkxwnjjtgx;w mhwzhwedck'hwkjhqzkaw mhwhqgwrnmhhgcwjrwd
ohgdu jdh'oweqggnwdedbwxjek,wsjuzkawdcjmkxwhqgwyjzkh;wojwegwsjugw dstp

“Bgo,”wodbowZ,w“dkxwjhqgcwhzugo,weqgkwhqzkaowzowxmnn,whqgbwrmoowezhqwhqg
ydcnbugkh;wdkxwzrwgigcb jxbwxjk'hwajw.mohwojwqgweqdstowhqgzcwqgdxowjrrp
 mhwujohnbwhqgbwqdkawcjmkxwhqgwqdcgup”

“Cjmk'wxgweqzsq?”

“Qdcgup”

“Eqdh'owxgwqdcgu?”

“Hqgwyndsgweqgcgwqgwtggyowqzowezigopw Xjk'hwbjmwtkjewd jmhwhqgwqdcgu?
Ojnjujkwqdxwjkg;wqgwqdxwd jmhwdwuznnzjkwezigop”

“Eqb,wbgo,wxdh'owoj;wZ--Z'xwxjkgwrjcajhwzhpw Dwqdcgu'owdw j'x'k-qjmog,wZ
cgst'kpw Ujo'wnztgnbwxgbwqdowcdstghbwhzugowzkwxgwkmoogcbpw GkwZwcgst'k
xgwezigowvmdccgnowsjkozxd ng;wgkwxdhw'scgdogwxgwcdstghpw Bzhwxgbwodb
Ojnngcumkwxgwezogo'wudkwxdhwgigcwnzig'pw Zwxjdk'whdtgwkjwohjstwzk
xdhpw gtdogweqb:wejmnxwdwezogwudkwedkhwhjwnzigwzkwxgwuzxo'wgcwozsqwd
 nzu- nduuzk'wdnnwxgwhzug?w Kj--'xggxwqgwejmnxk'hpw Dwezogwudkw'mxwhdtg
gkw mzn'wdw zngc-rdshcb;wgkwxgkwqgwsjmnxwoqghw_xjek_wxgw zngc-rdshcb
eqgkwqgwedkhwhjwcgo'p”

“Egnn,w mhwqgw_edo_whqgwezogohwudk,wdkbedb;w gsdmogwhqgwezxjewoqgwhjnx
ugwoj,wqgcwjekwognrp”

“Zwxjdkwt'bgcweqdhwxgwezxxgcwodb,wqgw_edck'h_wkjwezogwudkwkmhqgcpw Qg
qdxwojugwgcwxgwxdx-rghsqgxgo'wedbowZwgigcwoggpw Xjgowbjmwtkjew' jmhwxdh
sqzngwxdhwqgw'mlwaebkgwhjwsqjywzkwhej?”

“Bgo,whqgwezxjewhjnxwugwdnnwd jmhwzhp”

“_Egnn_,wxgk!w Edck'wxdhwxgw gdhgkgo'wkjhzjkwzkwxgwejcn'?w Bjmw.go'
hdtgwgkwnjjtwdhwzhwdwuzkmhgpw Xdq'owxgwohmuy,wxdq--xdh'owjkgwgcwxgwejugk;
qgdq'owbjm--xdh'owxgwbmhqgcwjkg;wZ'owOjnngcumk;wgkwxzoqwbgcwxjnndcw znn'o
xgwsqzngpw  jrgwmkwbjmwsndzuowzhpw EqdhwxjgowZwxj?w XjgowZwoqzkwdcjmk'
ujkao'wxgwkgzaq jcowgkwrzkgwjmhweqzsqwmkwbjmwxgw znnw_xj_w 'njkawhj,wgk
qdk'wzhwjigcwhjwxgwczaqhwjkg,wdnnwodrgwgkwojmk',wxgwedbwxdhwdkb jxbwxdh
qdxwdkbwamuyhzjkwejmnx?w Kj;wZwhdtgwgkweqdstwxgw znnwzkw_hej_,wgkwazig
qdnrwmkwzhwhjwbjm,wgkwxgwbmhqgcwqdnrwhjwxgwbmhqgcwejudkpw Xdh'owxgwedb
Ojnngcumkwedowaebkgwhjwxjwezxwxgwsqzngpw KjewZwedkhwhjwdohwbjm:w eqdh'o
xgwmogwgcwxdhwqdnrwdw znn?--sdk'hw mbwkjhq'kwezxwzhpw Gkweqdhwmogwzowd
qdnrwdwsqzng?w Zwejmnxk'wazigwdwxgckwrjcwdwuznnzjkwmkwmup”

“ mhwqdkawzh,w.zu,wbjm'igwsngdkwuzoogxwhqgwyjzkh-- ndugwzh,wbjm'igwuzoogx
zhwdwhqjmodkxwuzngp”

“Eqj?w Ug?w Ajw'njkapw Xjdk'whdntwhjwugw' jmhwbj'wyzkhopw Zwcgst'kwZ
tkjeowogkogweqgkwZwoggowzh;wgkwxgbwdzk'wkjwogkogwzkwozsqwxjzk'owdo
xdhpwXgw'oymhgwedck'hw' jmhwdwqdnrwdwsqzng,wxgw'oymhgwedow' jmhwdweqjng
sqzng;wgkwxgwudkwxdhwhqzktwqgwtzkwoghhngwdw'oymhgw' jmhwdweqjngwsqzng
ezxwdwqdnrwdwsqzngwxjdk'wtkjewgkjmaqwhjwsjugwzkwjmh'kwxgwcdzkpw Xjdk'
hdntwhjwugw' jmhwOjnngcumk,wQmst,wZwtkjeowqzuw bwxgw dstp”

“ mhwZwhgnnwbjmwbjmwxjk'hwaghwhqgwyjzkhp”

“ ndugwxgwyjzkh!w Zwcgst'kwZwtkjeoweqdhwZwtkjeopw Gkwuzkgwbjm,wxgw_cgdn_
yzkhwzowxjekwrmcxgc--zh'owxjekwxggygcpw ZhwndbowzkwxgwedbwOjnngcumkwedo
cdzogxpw Bjmwhdtgwdwudkwxdh'owajhwjk'bwjkgwjcwhejwsqznngk;wzowxdhwudk
aebkgwhjw gwedogrmnwj'wsqznngk?w Kj,wqgwdzk'h;wqgwsdk'hw'rjcxwzhpw _Qg_
tkjewqjewhjwidnmgw'gupw  mhwbjmwhdtgwdwudkwxdh'owajhw' jmhwrzigwuznnzjk
sqznngkwcmkkzk'wcjmk'wxgwqjmog,wgkwzh'owxzrrmkhpw _Qg_wdowojjkwsqjywd
sqzngwzkwhejwdowdwsdhpwXgb'owyngkhbwuj'pw Dwsqzngwgcwhej,wuj'wgcwngoo,
edck'hwkjwsjkogtgkowhjwOjnngcumk,wxdxwrdhsqwqzu!”

Zwkgigcwoggwomsqwdwkzaagcpw Zrwqgwajhwdwkjhzjkwzkwqzowqgdxwjksg,whqgcg
edck'hwkjwaghhzkawzhwjmhwdadzkpw QgwedowhqgwujohwxjekwjkwOjnjujkwjr
dkbwkzaagcwZwgigcwoggpw OjwZwegkhwhjwhdntzkawd jmhwjhqgcwtzkao,wdkxwngh
Ojnjujkwonzxgpw Zwhjnxwd jmhwNjmzowOzfhggkhqwhqdhwajhwqzowqgdxwsmhwjrr
zkwRcdksgwnjkawhzugwdaj;wdkxwd jmhwqzownzhhngw jbwhqgwxjnyqzk,whqdh
ejmnxwdw ggkwdwtzka,w mhwhqgbwhjjtwdkxwoqmhwqzuwmywzkw.dzn,wdkxwojugwodb
qgwxzgxwhqgcgp

“Yj'wnzhhngwsqdyp”

“ mhwojugwodbowqgwajhwjmhwdkxwajhwdedb,wdkxwsjugwhjwDugczsdp”

“Xdh'owajjx!w  mhwqg'nnw gwyjjhbwnjkgojug--xgbwdzk'wkjwtzkaowqgcg,wzo
xgb,wQmst?”

“Kjp”

“Xgkwqgwsdzk'hwazhwkjwozhmdhzjkpw Eqdhwqgwaebkgwhjwxj?”

“Egnn,wZwxjk'hwtkjepw Ojugwjrwhqguwaghowjkwhqgwyjnzsg,wdkxwojugwjrwhqgu
ngdckowygjyngwqjewhjwhdntwRcgksqp”

“Eqb,wQmst,wxjdk'wxgwRcgksqwygjyngwhdntwxgwodugwedbwegwxjgo?”

“_Kj_,w.zu;wbjmwsjmnxk'hwmkxgcohdkxwdwejcxwhqgbwodzx--kjhwdwozkangwejcxp”

“Egnn,wkje,wZw gwxzka- mohgx!w Qjewxjwxdhwsjug?”

“Zwxjk'hwtkje;w mhwzh'owojpw Zwajhwojugwjrwhqgzcw.d  gcwjmhwjrwdw jjtp
O'yjogwdwudkwedowhjwsjugwhjwbjmwdkxwodbwYjnnb-ijj-rcdklb--eqdhwejmnxwbjm
hqzkt?”

“Zwejmnxk'whqzktwkmrr'k;wZ'xwhdtgwgkw mohwqzuwjigcwxgwqgdx--xdhwzo,wzrwqg
edck'hweqzhgpw Zwejmnxk'hw'njewkjwkzaagcwhjwsdnnwugwxdhp”

“Oqmsto,wzhwdzk'hwsdnnzkawbjmwdkbhqzkapw Zh'owjknbwodbzka,wxjwbjmwtkje
qjewhjwhdntwRcgksq?”

“Egnn,wxgk,weqbwsjmnxk'hwqgw_odb_wzh?”

“Eqb,wqgw_zo_wd-odbzkawzhpw Hqdh'owdwRcgksqudk'ow_edb_wjrwodbzkawzhp”

“Egnn,wzh'owdw ndugwczxzstnjmowedb,wgkwZwxjdk'wedkhwhjwqgdcwkjwuj'w' jmh
zhpw Xgbwdzk'wkjwogkogwzkwzhp”

“Njjtbwqgcg,w.zu;wxjgowdwsdhwhdntwnztgwegwxj?”

“Kj,wdwsdhwxjk'hp”

“Egnn,wxjgowdwsje?”

“Kj,wdwsjewxjk'h,wkmhqgcp”

“Xjgowdwsdhwhdntwnztgwdwsje,wjcwdwsjewhdntwnztgwdwsdh?”

“Kj,wxgbwxjk'hp”

“Zh'owkdhmcdnwdkxwczaqhwrjcw'guwhjwhdntwxzrrgcgkhwrcjuwgdsqwjhqgc,wdzk'h
zh?”

“Sjmcogp”

“Dkxwdzk'hwzhwkdhmcdnwdkxwczaqhwrjcwdwsdhwdkxwdwsjewhjwhdntwxzrrgcgkh
rcjuw_mo_?”

“Eqb,wujo'woqjnbwzhwzop”

“Egnn,whqgk,weqbwdzk'hwzhwkdhmcdnwdkxwczaqhwrjcwdw_Rcgksqudk_whjwhdnt
xzrrgcgkhwrcjuwmo?w Bjmwdkoegcwugwhqdhp”

“Zowdwsdhwdwudk,wQmst?”

“Kjp”

“Egnn,wxgk,wxgbwdzk'hwkjwogkogwzkwdwsdhwhdntzk'wnztgwdwudkpw Zowdwsjewd
udk?--gcwzowdwsjewdwsdh?”

“Kj,woqgwdzk'hwgzhqgcwjrwhqgup”

“Egnn,wxgk,woqgwdzk'hwajhwkjw mozkgoowhjwhdntwnztgwgzhqgcwjkgwgcwhqg
bmhqgcwjrw'gupw ZowdwRcgksqudkwdwudk?”

“Bgop”

“_Egnn_,wxgk!w Xdxw ndugwzh,weqbwxjdk'wqgw_hdnt_wnztgwdwudk?w Bjmwdkoegc
ugw_xdh_!”

Zwoggwzhwedck'hwkjwmogwedohzkawejcxo--bjmwsdk'hwngdckwdwkzaagcwhjwdcamgp
OjwZwvmzhp




SQDYHGCwFIp

EGw.mxagxwhqdhwhqcggwkzaqhowujcgwejmnxwrghsqwmowhjwSdzcj,wdhwhqgw jhhju
jrwZnnzkjzo,weqgcgwhqgwJqzjwCzigcwsjugowzk,wdkxwhqdhwedoweqdhwegwedo
drhgcpw Egwejmnxwognnwhqgwcdrhwdkxwaghwjkwdwohgdu jdhwdkxwajwedbwmywhqg
JqzjwdujkaohwhqgwrcggwOhdhgo,wdkxwhqgkw gwjmhwjrwhcjm ngp

Egnn,whqgwogsjkxwkzaqhwdwrjaw gamkwhjwsjugwjk,wdkxwegwudxgwrjcwdwhjeqgdx
hjwhzgwhj,wrjcwzhwejmnxk'hwxjwhjwhcbwhjwcmkwzkwdwrja;w mhweqgkwZwydxxngx
dqgdxwzkwhqgwsdkjg,wezhqwhqgwnzkgwhjwudtgwrdoh,whqgcgwedck'hwdkbhqzka
 mhwnzhhngwodynzkaowhjwhzgwhjpw Zwydoogxwhqgwnzkgwdcjmkxwjkgwjrwhqgu
czaqhwjkwhqgwgxagwjrwhqgwsmhw dkt,w mhwhqgcgwedowdwohzrrwsmccgkh,wdkx
hqgwcdrhwsjugw jjuzkawxjekwojwnzignbwoqgwhjcgwzhwjmhw bwhqgwcjjhowdkx
dedbwoqgwegkhpw Zwoggwhqgwrjawsnjozkawxjek,wdkxwzhwudxgwugwojwozstwdkx
osdcgxwZwsjmnxk'hw mxagwrjcwujohwdwqdnrwdwuzkmhgwzhwoggugxwhjwug--dkx
hqgkwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwcdrhwzkwozaqh;wbjmwsjmnxk'hwoggwhegkhbwbdcxopw Z
.muygxwzkhjwhqgwsdkjgwdkxwcmkw dstwhjwhqgwohgck,wdkxwacd  gxwhqgwydxxng
dkxwoghwqgcw dstwdwohcjtgpw  mhwoqgwxzxk'hwsjugpw Zwedowzkwomsqwdwqmccb
Zwqdxk'hwmkhzgxwqgcpw Zwajhwmywdkxwhczgxwhjwmkhzgwqgc,w mhwZwedowoj
gfszhgxwubwqdkxowoqjjtwojwZwsjmnxk'hwqdcxnbwxjwdkbhqzkawezhqwhqgup

DowojjkwdowZwajhwohdchgxwZwhjjtwjmhwdrhgcwhqgwcdrh,wqjhwdkxwqgdib,wczaqh
xjekwhqgwhjeqgdxpw Hqdhwedowdnnwczaqhwdowrdcwdowzhwegkh,w mhwhqgwhjeqgdx
edck'hwozfhbwbdcxownjka,wdkxwhqgwuzkmhgwZwrngew bwhqgwrjjhwjrwzhwZwoqjh
jmhwzkhjwhqgwojnzxweqzhgwrja,wdkxwqdxk'hwkjwujcgwzxgdweqzsqwedbwZwedo
ajzkawhqdkwdwxgdxwudkp

HqzktowZ,wzhwejk'hwxjwhjwydxxng;wrzcohwZwtkjewZ'nnwcmkwzkhjwhqgw dkt
jcwdwhjeqgdxwjcwojughqzka;wZwajhwhjwoghwohznnwdkxwrnjdh,wdkxwbghwzh'o
uzaqhbwrzxaghbw mozkgoowhjwqdigwhjwqjnxwbjmcwqdkxowohznnwdhwomsqwdwhzugp
 Zweqjjygxwdkxwnzohgkgxpw DedbwxjekwhqgcgwojugeqgcgowZwqgdcowdwoudnn
eqjjy,wdkxwmywsjugowubwoyzczhopw Zwegkhwhgdczkawdrhgcwzh,wnzohgkzka
oqdcywhjwqgdcwzhwdadzkpw HqgwkgfhwhzugwzhwsjugwZwoggwZwedck'hwqgdxzka
rjcwzh,w mhwqgdxzkawdedbwhjwhqgwczaqhwjrwzhpw DkxwhqgwkgfhwhzugwZwedo
qgdxzkawdedbwhjwhqgwngrhwjrwzh--dkxwkjhwadzkzkawjkwzhwumsqwgzhqgc,wrjc
Zwedowrnbzkawdcjmkx,whqzowedbwdkxwhqdhwdkxwh'jhqgc,w mhwzhwedowajzka
ohcdzaqhwdqgdxwdnnwhqgwhzugp

Zwxzxwezoqwhqgwrjjnwejmnxwhqzktwhjw gdhwdwhzkwydk,wdkxw gdhwzhwdnnwhqg
hzug,w mhwqgwkgigcwxzx,wdkxwzhwedowhqgwohznnwyndsgow gheggkwhqgweqjjyo
hqdhwedowudtzkawhqgwhcjm ngwrjcwugpw Egnn,wZwrjmaqhwdnjka,wdkxwxzcgshnb
Zwqgdcowhqgweqjjyw_ gqzkx_wugpw Zwedowhdkangxwajjxwkjepw Hqdhwedo
ojug jxbwgnog'oweqjjy,wjcwgnogwZwedowhmckgxwdcjmkxp

Zwhqcjegxwhqgwydxxngwxjekpw Zwqgdcxwhqgweqjjywdadzk;wzhwedow gqzkxwug
bgh,w mhwzkwdwxzrrgcgkhwyndsg;wzhwtgyhwsjuzka,wdkxwtgyhwsqdkazkawzho
yndsg,wdkxwZwtgyhwdkoegczka,whznnw bwdkxw bwzhwedowzkwrcjkhwjrwugwdadzk,
dkxwZwtkjegxwhqgwsmccgkhwqdxwoemkawhqgwsdkjg'owqgdxwxjek-ohcgdu,wdkxwZ
edowdnnwczaqhwzrwhqdhwedow.zuwdkxwkjhwojugwjhqgcwcdrhoudkwqjnngczkap
 Zwsjmnxk'hwhgnnwkjhqzkawd jmhwijzsgowzkwdwrja,wrjcwkjhqzkawxjk'hwnjjt
kdhmcdnwkjcwojmkxwkdhmcdnwzkwdwrjap

Hqgweqjjyzkawegkhwjk,wdkxwzkwd jmhwdwuzkmhgwZwsjugwd- jjuzkawxjekwjkwd
smhw dktwezhqwoujtbwaqjohowjrw zawhcggowjkwzh,wdkxwhqgwsmccgkhwhqcjegx
ugwjrrwhjwhqgwngrhwdkxwoqjhw b,wdujkaohwdwnjhwjrwokdaowhqdhwrdzcnb
cjdcgx,whqgwsmcccgkhwedowhgdczkaw bwhqguwojwoezrhp

Zkwdkjhqgcwogsjkxwjcwhejwzhwedowojnzxweqzhgwdkxwohznnwdadzkpw Zwogh
ygcrgshnbwohznnwhqgk,wnzohgkzkawhjwubwqgdchwhqmuy,wdkxwZwcgstjkwZwxzxk'h
xcdewdw cgdhqweqzngwzhwhqmuygxwdwqmkxcgxp

Zw.mohwazigwmywhqgkpw Zwtkjegxweqdhwhqgwudhhgcwedopw Hqdhwsmhw dkt
edowdkwzondkx,wdkxw.zuwqdxwajkgwxjekwh'jhqgcwozxgwjrwzhpw Zhwedck'hwkj
hjeqgdxwhqdhwbjmwsjmnxwrnjdhw bwzkwhgkwuzkmhgopw Zhwqdxwhqgw zawhzu gc
jrwdwcgamndcwzondkx;wzhwuzaqhw gwrzigwjcwozfwuzngownjkawdkxwujcgwhqdk
qdnrwdwuzngwezxgp

Zwtgyhwvmzgh,wezhqwubwgdcowsjstgx,wd jmhwrzrhggkwuzkmhgo,wZwcgstjkpw Z
edowrnjdhzkawdnjka,wjrwsjmcog,wrjmcwjcwrzigwuzngowdkwqjmc;w mhwbjmwxjk'h
gigcwhqzktwjrwhqdhpw Kj,wbjmw_rggn_wnztgwbjmwdcgwndbzkawxgdxwohznnwjk
hqgwedhgc;wdkxwzrwdwnzhhngwanzuyogwjrwdwokdawonzyow bwbjmwxjk'hwhqzktwhj
bjmcognrwqjewrdohw_bjm'cg_wajzka,w mhwbjmwsdhsqwbjmcw cgdhqwdkxwhqzkt,
ub!wqjewhqdhwokda'owhgdczkawdnjkapw Zrwbjmwhqzktwzhwdzk'hwxzoudnwdkx
njkgojugwjmhwzkwdwrjawhqdhwedbw bwbjmcognrwzkwhqgwkzaqh,wbjmwhcbwzh
jksg--bjm'nnwoggp

Kgfh,wrjcwd jmhwdwqdnrwdkwqjmc,wZweqjjyowkjewdkxwhqgk;wdhwndohwZwqgdco
hqgwdkoegcwdwnjkawedbowjrr,wdkxwhczgowhjwrjnnjewzh,w mhwZwsjmnxk'hwxj
zh,wdkxwxzcgshnbwZw.mxagxwZ'xwajhwzkhjwdwkgohwjrwhjeqgdxo,wrjcwZwqdx
nzhhngwxzuwanzuyogowjrwhqguwjkw jhqwozxgowjrwug--ojughzugow.mohwdwkdccje
sqdkkgnw gheggk,wdkxwojugwhqdhwZwsjmnxk'hwoggwZwtkjegxwedowhqgcgw gsdmog
Z'xwqgdcwhqgwedoqwjrwhqgwsmccgkhwdadzkohwhqgwjnxwxgdxw cmoqwdkxwhcdoq
hqdhwqmkawjigcwhqgw dktopw Egnn,wZwedck'hwnjkawnjjozkawhqgweqjjyowxjek
dujkaohwhqgwhjeqgdxo;wdkxwZwjknbwhczgxwhjwsqdogwhqguwdwnzhhngweqzng,
dkbedb,w gsdmogwzhwedowejcogwhqdkwsqdozkawdw.dst-j'-ndkhgckpw Bjmwkgigc
tkjegxwdwojmkxwxjxagwdcjmkxwoj,wdkxwoedywyndsgowojwvmzstwdkxwojwumsqp

Zwqdxwhjwsndewdedbwrcjuwhqgw dktwycghhbwnzignbwrjmcwjcwrzigwhzugo,whj
tggywrcjuwtkjstzkawhqgwzondkxowjmhwjrwhqgwczigc;wdkxwojwZw.mxagxwhqg
cdrhwumohw gw mhhzkawzkhjwhqgw dktwgigcbwkjewdkxwhqgk,wjcwgnogwzhwejmnx
aghwrmchqgcwdqgdxwdkxwsngdcwjmhwjrwqgdczka--zhwedowrnjdhzkawdwnzhhng
rdohgcwhqdkweqdhwZwedop

Egnn,wZwoggugxwhjw gwzkwhqgwjygkwczigcwdadzkw bwdkxw b,w mhwZwsjmnxk'h
qgdcwkjwozakwjrwdweqjjywkjeqgcgopw Zwcgstjkgxw.zuwqdxwrghsqgxwmywjkwd
okda,wudb g,wdkxwzhwedowdnnwmywezhqwqzupw Zwedowajjxwdkxwhzcgx,wojwZ
ndzxwxjekwzkwhqgwsdkjgwdkxwodzxwZwejmnxk'hw jhqgcwkjwujcgpw Zwxzxk'h
edkhwhjwajwhjwonggy,wjrwsjmcog;w mhwZwedowojwonggybwZwsjmnxk'hwqgnywzh;
ojwZwhqjmaqhwZwejmnxwhdtgw.gohwjkgwnzhhngwsdh-kdyp

 mhwZwcgstjkwzhwedowujcgwhqdkwdwsdh-kdy,wrjcweqgkwZwedtgxwmywhqgwohdco
edowoqzkzkaw czaqh,whqgwrjawedowdnnwajkg,wdkxwZwedowoyzkkzkawxjekwd
 zaw gkxwohgckwrzcohpw RzcohwZwxzxk'hwtkjeweqgcgwZwedo;wZwhqjmaqhwZwedo
xcgduzka;wdkxweqgkwhqzkaow gadkwhjwsjugw dstwhjwugwhqgbwoggugxwhjwsjug
mywxzuwjmhwjrwndohweggtp

Zhwedowdwujkohcjmow zawczigcwqgcg,wezhqwhqgwhdnngohwdkxwhqgwhqzstgoh
tzkxwjrwhzu gcwjkw jhqw dkto;w.mohwdwojnzxwednn,wdowegnnwdowZwsjmnxwogg
 bwhqgwohdcopw Zwnjjtgxwdedbwxjek-ohcgdu,wdkxwoggkwdw ndstwoygstwjkwhqg
edhgcpwZwhjjtwdrhgcwzh;w mhweqgkwZwajhwhjwzhwzhwedck'hwkjhqzkaw mhwd
sjmyngwjrwodenjaowudxgwrdohwhjaghqgcpw HqgkwZwoggwdkjhqgcwoygst,wdkx
sqdogxwhqdh;whqgkwdkjhqgc,wdkxwhqzowhzugwZwedowczaqhpw Zhwedowhqgwcdrhp

EqgkwZwajhwhjwzhw.zuwedowoghhzkawhqgcgwezhqwqzowqgdxwxjekw gheggkwqzo
tkggo,wdonggy,wezhqwqzowczaqhwdcuwqdkazkawjigcwhqgwohggczka-jdcpw Hqg
jhqgcwjdcwedowoudoqgxwjrr,wdkxwhqgwcdrhwedownzhhgcgxwmywezhqwngdigowdkx
 cdksqgowdkxwxzchpw Ojwoqg'xwqdxwdwcjmaqwhzugp

Zwudxgwrdohwdkxwndzxwxjekwmkxgcw.zu'owkjogwjkwhqgwcdrh,wdkxw gadkwhj
ady,wdkxwohcghsqwubwrzohowjmhwdadzkohw.zu,wdkxwodbo:

“Qgnnj,w.zu,wqdigwZw ggkwdonggy?w Eqbwxzxk'hwbjmwohzcwugwmy?”

“Ajjxkgoowacdszjmo,wzowxdhwbjm,wQmst?w Gkwbjmwdzk'wxgdx--bjmwdzk'
xcjekxgx--bjm'ow dstwdazk?w Zh'owhjjwajjxwrjcwhcmg,wqjkgb,wzh'owhjjwajjx
rjcwhcmgpwNguugwnjjtwdhwbjmwsqzng,wnguugwrggnwj'wbjmpw Kj,wbjmwdzk'
xgdx!wbjm'ow dstwdazk,w'nzigwgkwojmk',w.zowxgwodugwjngwQmst--xgwodugwjng
Qmst,whqdktowhjwajjxkgoo!”

“Eqdh'owhqgwudhhgcwezhqwbjm,w.zu?w Bjmw ggkwd-xczktzka?”

“Xczktzk'?w QdowZw gkwd-xczktzk'?w QdowZwqdxwdwsqdksgwhjw gwd-xczktzk'?”

“Egnn,whqgk,weqdhwudtgowbjmwhdntwojweznx?”

“QjewxjgowZwhdntweznx?”

“_Qje_?w Eqb,wqdzk'hwbjmw ggkwhdntzkawd jmhwubwsjuzkaw dst,wdkxwdnnwhqdh
ohmrr,wdowzrwZ'xw ggkwajkgwdedb?”

“Qmst--QmstwRzkk,wbjmwnjjtwugwzkwxgwgbg;wnjjtwugwzkwxgwgbgpw _Qdzk'h_wbjm
 gkwajkgwdedb?”

“Ajkgwdedb?w Eqb,weqdhwzkwhqgwkdhzjkwxjwbjmwugdk?w Zwqdzk'hw ggkwajkg
dkbeqgcgopw EqgcgwejmnxwZwajwhj?”

“Egnn,wnjjtbwqgcg,w joo,wxgb'owomur'kwecjka,wxgbwzopw ZowZw_ug_,wjcweqj
_zo_wZ?wZowZwqgdq,wjcweqdqw_zo_wZ?w Kjewxdh'oweqdhwZwedkhowhjwtkjep”

“Egnn,wZwhqzktwbjm'cgwqgcg,wyndzkwgkjmaq,w mhwZwhqzktwbjm'cgwd
hdkang-qgdxgxwjnxwrjjn,w.zup”

“Zwzo,wzowZ?w Egnn,wbjmwdkoegcwugwxzo:w Xzxk'hwbjmwhjhgwjmhwxgwnzkgwzk
xgwsdkjgwrgcwhjwudtgwrdo'whjwxgwhje-qgdx?”

“Kj,wZwxzxk'hpw Eqdhwhje-qgdx?w Zwqdzk'hwoggwkjwhje-qgdxp”

“Bjmwqdzk'hwoggkwkjwhjeqgdx?w Njjtbwqgcg,wxzxk'hwxgwnzkgwymnnwnjjogwgk
xgwcdr'wajwd-qmuuzk'wxjekwxgwczigc,wgkwngdigwbjmwgkwxgwsdkjgw gqzkgwzk
xgwrja?”

“Eqdhwrja?”

“Eqb,wxgwrja!--xgwrjawxdh'ow ggkwdcjmk'wdnnwkzaqhpw Gkwxzxk'hwbjmweqjjy,
gkwxzxk'hwZweqjjy,whgnnwegwajhwuzf'wmywzkwxgwzondkxowgkwjkgwmkwmowajh
njo'wgkwh'jhqgcwjkgwedow.zo'wdowajjxwdownjo',w'tdogwqgwxzxk'wtkjeweqdq
qgweml?wGkwxzxk'hwZw mohwmywdazkwdwnjhwgcwxguwzondkxowgkwqdigwdwhmccz ng
hzugwgkwujo'wazhwxcjekxgx?w Kjewdzk'wxdhwoj,w joo--dzk'hwzhwoj?w Bjm
dkoegcwugwxdhp”

“Egnn,whqzowzowhjjwudkbwrjcwug,w.zupw Zwqdzk'hwoggkwkjwrja,wkjcwkj
zondkxo,wkjcwkjwhcjm ngo,wkjcwkjhqzkapw Zw ggkwoghhzkawqgcgwhdntzkawezhq
bjmwdnnwkzaqhwhznnwbjmwegkhwhjwonggywd jmhwhgkwuzkmhgowdaj,wdkxwZwcgstjk
Zwxjkgwhqgwodugpw Bjmwsjmnxk'hwdwajhwxcmktwzkwhqdhwhzug,wojwjrwsjmcog
bjm'igw ggkwxcgduzkap”

“Xdxwrghsqwzh,wqjewzowZwaebkgwhjwxcgduwdnnwxdhwzkwhgkwuzkmhgo?”

“Egnn,wqdkawzhwdnn,wbjmwxzxwxcgduwzh,w gsdmogwhqgcgwxzxk'hwdkbwjrwzh
qdyygkp”

“ mh,wQmst,wzh'owdnnw.zo'wdowyndzkwhjwugwdo--”

“Zhwxjk'hwudtgwkjwxzrrgcgksgwqjewyndzkwzhwzo;whqgcgwdzk'hwkjhqzkawzkwzhp
Zwtkje,w gsdmogwZ'igw ggkwqgcgwdnnwhqgwhzugp”

.zuwxzxk'hwodbwkjhqzkawrjcwd jmhwrzigwuzkmhgo,w mhwoghwhqgcgwohmxbzka
jigcwzhpw Hqgkwqgwodbo:

“Egnn,wxgk,wZwcgst'kwZwxzxwxcgduwzh,wQmst;w mhwxjawubwsdhowgrwzhwdzk'h
xgwyjegcrmnngohwxcgduwZwgigcwoggpw GkwZwqdzk'hwgigcwqdxwkjwxcgduw 'rj'
xdh'owhzcgxwugwnztgwxzowjkgp”

“Jq,wegnn,whqdh'owdnnwczaqh,w gsdmogwdwxcgduwxjgowhzcgwdw jxbwnztg
gigcbhqzkawojughzugopw  mhwhqzowjkgwedowdwohdizkawxcgdu;whgnnwugwdnn
d jmhwzh,w.zup”

Ojw.zuwegkhwhjwejctwdkxwhjnxwugwhqgweqjngwhqzkawczaqhwhqcjmaq,w.mohwdo
zhwqdyygkgx,wjknbwqgwydzkhgxwzhwmywsjkozxgcd ngpw Hqgkwqgwodzxwqgwumoh
ohdchwzkwdkxw“'hgcycgh”wzh,w gsdmogwzhwedowogkhwrjcwdwedckzkapw Qgwodzx
hqgwrzcohwhjeqgdxwohjjxwrjcwdwudkwhqdhwejmnxwhcbwhjwxjwmowojugwajjx,w mh
hqgwsmccgkhwedowdkjhqgcwudkwhqdhwejmnxwaghwmowdedbwrcjuwqzupw Hqgweqjjyo
edowedckzkaowhqdhwejmnxwsjugwhjwmowgigcbwkjewdkxwhqgk,wdkxwzrwegwxzxk'h
hcbwqdcxwhjwudtgwjmhwhjwmkxgcohdkxwhqguwhqgb'xw.mohwhdtgwmowzkhjw dx
nmst,w'ohgdxwjrwtggyzkawmowjmhwjrwzhpw Hqgwnjhwjrwhjeqgdxowedowhcjm ngo
egwedowajzkawhjwaghwzkhjwezhqwvmdccgnojugwygjyngwdkxwdnnwtzkxowjrwugdk
rjnto,w mhwzrwegwuzkxgxwjmcw mozkgoowdkxwxzxk'hwhdntw dstwdkxwdaacdidhg
hqgu,wegwejmnxwymnnwhqcjmaqwdkxwaghwjmhwjrwhqgwrjawdkxwzkhjwhqgw za
sngdcwczigc,weqzsqwedowhqgwrcggwOhdhgo,wdkxwejmnxk'hwqdigwkjwujcg
hcjm ngp

Zhwqdxwsnjmxgxwmywycghhbwxdctw.mohwdrhgcwZwajhwjkwhjwhqgwcdrh,w mhwzh
edowsngdczkawmywdadzkwkjep

“Jq,wegnn,whqdh'owdnnwzkhgcycghgxwegnnwgkjmaqwdowrdcwdowzhwajgo,w.zu,”wZ
odbo;w“ mhweqdhwxjgow_hqgog_whqzkaowohdkxwrjc?”

Zhwedowhqgwngdigowdkxwcm  zoqwjkwhqgwcdrhwdkxwhqgwoudoqgxwjdcpw Bjm
sjmnxwoggwhqguwrzcoh-cdhgwkjep

.zuwnjjtgxwdhwhqgwhcdoq,wdkxwhqgkwnjjtgxwdhwug,wdkxw dstwdhwhqgwhcdoq
dadzkpw Qgwqdxwajhwhqgwxcgduwrzfgxwojwohcjkawzkwqzowqgdxwhqdhwqg
sjmnxk'hwogguwhjwoqdtgwzhwnjjogwdkxwaghwhqgwrdshow dstwzkhjwzhowyndsg
dadzkwczaqhwdedbpw  mhweqgkwqgwxzxwaghwhqgwhqzkawohcdzaqhgkgxwdcjmkxwqg
njjtgxwdhwugwohgdxbwezhqjmhwgigcwouznzka,wdkxwodbo:

“Eqdhwxjwxgbwohdk'wrjc?w Z'ogwaebkgwhjwhgnnwbjmpw EqgkwZwajhwdnnwejcg
jmhwezxwejct,wgkwezxwxgwsdnnzk'wrjcwbjm,wgkwegkhwhjwonggy,wubwqgdchweml
ujo'w cjtgw gtdogwbjmwemlwnjo',wgkwZwxzxk'wt'bgcwkj'wuj'weqdhw gsjug
gcwugwgkwxgwcdr'pw GkweqgkwZwedtgwmywgkwrzkgwbjmw dstwdazk,wdnnwodrg
gkwojmk',wxgwhgdcowsjug,wgkwZwsjmnxwdwajhwxjekwjkwubwtkggowgkwtzoowbj'
rjjh,wZ'owojwhqdktrmnpwGkwdnnwbjmwemlwhqzktzk'w' jmhwemlwqjewbjmwsjmnx
udtgwdwrjjnwmiwjngw.zuwezxwdwnzgpw Xdhwhcmstwxdqwzow_hcdoq_;wgkwhcdoq
zoweqdhwygjyngwzowxdhwymhowxzchwjkwxgwqgdxwgcwxgbwrcgk'owgkwudtgow'gu
doqdugxp”

Hqgkwqgwajhwmywonjewdkxwedntgxwhjwhqgwezaedu,wdkxwegkhwzkwhqgcgwezhqjmh
odbzkawdkbhqzkaw mhwhqdhpw  mhwhqdhwedowgkjmaqpw Zhwudxgwugwrggnwojwugdk
Zwsjmnxwdnujohwtzoogxw_qzo_wrjjhwhjwaghwqzuwhjwhdtgwzhw dstp

Zhwedowrzrhggkwuzkmhgow grjcgwZwsjmnxwejctwubognrwmywhjwajwdkxwqmu ng
ubognrwhjwdwkzaagc;w mhwZwxjkgwzh,wdkxwZwedck'hwgigcwojccbwrjcwzh
drhgcedcxo,wkgzhqgcpw Zwxzxk'hwxjwqzuwkjwujcgwugdkwhczsto,wdkxwZ
ejmnxk'hwxjkgwhqdhwjkgwzrwZ'xwdwtkjegxwzhwejmnxwudtgwqzuwrggnwhqdhwedbp




SQDYHGCwFIZp

EGwongyhwujohwdnnwxdb,wdkxwohdchgxwjmhwdhwkzaqh,wdwnzhhngwedbow gqzkxwd
ujkohcjmownjkawcdrhwhqdhwedowdownjkawajzkaw bwdowdwycjsgoozjkpw Oqgwqdx
rjmcwnjkawoeggyowdhwgdsqwgkx,wojwegw.mxagxwoqgwsdcczgxwdowudkbwdowhqzchb
ugk,wnztgnbpw Oqgwqdxwrzigw zawezaeduowd jdcx,wezxgwdydch,wdkxwdkwjygk
sduywrzcgwzkwhqgwuzxxng,wdkxwdwhdnnwrnda-yjngwdhwgdsqwgkxpw Hqgcgwedowd
yjegcwjrwohbngwd jmhwqgcpw Zhw_dujmkhgx_whjwojughqzkaw gzkawdwcdrhoudk
jkwomsqwdwscdrhwdowhqdhp

Egwegkhwxczrhzkawxjekwzkhjwdw zaw gkx,wdkxwhqgwkzaqhwsnjmxgxwmywdkxwajh
qjhpw Hqgwczigcwedowigcbwezxg,wdkxwedowednngxwezhqwojnzxwhzu gcwjk
 jhqwozxgo;wbjmwsjmnxk'hwoggwdw cgdtwzkwzhwqdcxnbwgigc,wjcwdwnzaqhpw Eg
hdntgxwd jmhwSdzcj,wdkxwejkxgcgxweqghqgcwegwejmnxwtkjewzhweqgkwegwajhwhj
zhpw Zwodzxwnztgnbwegwejmnxk'h,w gsdmogwZwqdxwqgdcxwodbwhqgcgwedck'hw mh
d jmhwdwxjlgkwqjmogowhqgcg,wdkxwzrwhqgbwxzxk'hwqdyygkwhjwqdigwhqguwnzh
my,wqjewedowegwajzkawhjwtkjewegwedowydoozkawdwhjek?w .zuwodzxwzrwhqgwhej
 zawczigcow.jzkgxwhjaghqgcwhqgcg,whqdhwejmnxwoqjepw  mhwZwodzxwudb g
egwuzaqhwhqzktwegwedowydoozkawhqgwrjjhwjrwdkwzondkxwdkxwsjuzkawzkhjwhqg
odugwjnxwczigcwdadzkpwHqdhwxzohmc gxw.zu--dkxwugwhjjpw Ojwhqgwvmgohzjk
edo,weqdhwhjwxj?w Zwodzx,wydxxngwdoqjcgwhqgwrzcohwhzugwdwnzaqhwoqjegx,
dkxwhgnnwhqguwydywedow gqzkx,wsjuzkawdnjkawezhqwdwhcdxzka-osje,wdkx
edowdwacggkwqdkxwdhwhqgw mozkgoo,wdkxwedkhgxwhjwtkjewqjewrdcwzhwedowhj
Sdzcjpw .zuwhqjmaqhwzhwedowdwajjxwzxgd,wojwegwhjjtwdwoujtgwjkwzhwdkx
edzhgxp

Hqgcgwedck'hwkjhqzkawhjwxjwkjew mhwhjwnjjtwjmhwoqdcywrjcwhqgwhjek,wdkx
kjhwydoowzhwezhqjmhwoggzkawzhpw Qgwodzxwqg'xw gwuzaqhbwomcgwhjwoggwzh,
 gsdmogwqg'xw gwdwrcggwudkwhqgwuzkmhgwqgwoggkwzh,w mhwzrwqgwuzoogxwzh
qg'xw gwzkwdwondigwsjmkhcbwdadzkwdkxwkjwujcgwoqjewrjcwrcggxjupw Gigcb
nzhhngweqzngwqgw.muyowmywdkxwodbo:

“Xdqwoqgwzo?”

 mhwzhwedck'hpw Zhwedow.dst-j'-ndkhgcko,wjcwnzaqhkzkaw mao;wojwqgwogh
xjekwdadzk,wdkxwegkhwhjwedhsqzka,wodugwdow grjcgpw .zuwodzxwzhwudxgwqzu
dnnwjigcwhcgu nbwdkxwrgigczoqwhjw gwojwsnjogwhjwrcggxjupw Egnn,wZwsdk
hgnnwbjmwzhwudxgwugwdnnwjigcwhcgu nbwdkxwrgigczoq,whjj,whjwqgdcwqzu,
 gsdmogwZw gamkwhjwaghwzhwhqcjmaqwubwqgdxwhqdhwqgw_edo_wujohwrcgg--dkx
eqjwedowhjw ndugwrjcwzh?w Eqb,w_ug_pw Zwsjmnxk'hwaghwhqdhwjmhwjrwub
sjkoszgksg,wkjwqjewkjcwkjwedbpwZhwajhwhjwhcjm nzkawugwojwZwsjmnxk'h
cgoh;wZwsjmnxk'hwohdbwohznnwzkwjkgwyndsgpw Zhwqdxk'hwgigcwsjugwqjugwhj
ugw grjcg,weqdhwhqzowhqzkawedowhqdhwZwedowxjzkapw  mhwkjewzhwxzx;wdkxwzh
ohdbgxwezhqwug,wdkxwosjcsqgxwugwujcgwdkxwujcgpw Zwhczgxwhjwudtgwjmhwhj
ubognrwhqdhwZwedck'hwhjw ndug,w gsdmogwZwxzxk'hwcmkw.zuwjrrwrcjuwqzo
czaqhrmnwjekgc;w mhwzhwedck'hwkjwmog,wsjkoszgksgwmywdkxwodbo,wgigcb
hzug,w“ mhwbjmwtkjegxwqgwedowcmkkzkawrjcwqzowrcggxju,wdkxwbjmwsjmnxwd
ydxxngxwdoqjcgwdkxwhjnxwojug jxbp”w Hqdhwedowoj--Zwsjmnxk'hwaghwdcjmkx
hqdhwkjedbpw Hqdhwedoweqgcgwzhwyzksqgxpw Sjkoszgksgwodbowhjwug,w“Eqdh
qdxwyjjcwUzoowEdhojkwxjkgwhjwbjmwhqdhwbjmwsjmnxwoggwqgcwkzaagcwajwjrr
czaqhwmkxgcwbjmcwgbgowdkxwkgigcwodbwjkgwozkangwejcx?w Eqdhwxzxwhqdhwyjjc
jnxwejudkwxjwhjwbjmwhqdhwbjmwsjmnxwhcgdhwqgcwojwugdk?w Eqb,woqgwhczgxwhj
ngdckwbjmwbjmcw jjt,woqgwhczgxwhjwngdckwbjmwbjmcwudkkgco,woqgwhczgxwhj
 gwajjxwhjwbjmwgigcbwedbwoqgwtkjegxwqjepw _Hqdh'o_weqdhwoqgwxjkgp”

Zwajhwhjwrggnzkawojwugdkwdkxwojwuzogcd ngwZwujohwezoqgxwZwedowxgdxpw Z
rzxaghgxwmywdkxwxjekwhqgwcdrh,wd mozkawubognrwhjwubognr,wdkxw.zuwedo
rzxaghzkawmywdkxwxjekwydohwugpw Egwkgzhqgcwjrwmowsjmnxwtggywohznnp
 Gigcbwhzugwqgwxdksgxwdcjmkxwdkxwodbo,w“Xdq'owSdzcj!”wzhwegkhwhqcjmaqwug
nztgwdwoqjh,wdkxwZwhqjmaqhwzrwzhw_edo_wSdzcjwZwcgstjkgxwZwejmnxwxzgwjr
uzogcd ngkgoop

.zuwhdntgxwjmhwnjmxwdnnwhqgwhzugweqzngwZwedowhdntzkawhjwubognrpw Qgwedo
odbzkawqjewhqgwrzcohwhqzkawqgwejmnxwxjweqgkwqgwajhwhjwdwrcggwOhdhgwqg
ejmnxwajwhjwodizkawmywujkgbwdkxwkgigcwoygkxwdwozkangwsgkh,wdkxweqgkwqg
ajhwgkjmaqwqgwejmnxw mbwqzowezrg,weqzsqwedowjekgxwjkwdwrdcuwsnjogwhj
eqgcgwUzoowEdhojkwnzigx;wdkxwhqgkwhqgbwejmnxw jhqwejctwhjw mbwhqg
hejwsqznxcgk,wdkxwzrwhqgzcwudohgcwejmnxk'hwognnwhqgu,whqgb'xwaghwdk
D 'nzhzjkzohwhjwajwdkxwohgdnwhqgup

Zhwujohwrcjlgwugwhjwqgdcwomsqwhdntpw Qgwejmnxk'hwgigcwxdcgxwhjwhdntwomsq
hdntwzkwqzownzrgw grjcgpw .mohwoggweqdhwdwxzrrgcgksgwzhwudxgwzkwqzuwhqg
uzkmhgwqgw.mxagxwqgwedowd jmhwrcggpw Zhwedowdssjcxzkawhjwhqgwjnxwodbzka,
“Azigwdwkzaagcwdkwzksqwdkxwqg'nnwhdtgwdkwgnnp”w HqzktowZ,whqzowzoweqdh
sjugowjrwubwkjhwhqzktzkapw Qgcgwedowhqzowkzaagc,weqzsqwZwqdxwdowajjx
dowqgnygxwhjwcmkwdedb,wsjuzkawczaqhwjmhwrndh-rjjhgxwdkxwodbzkawqgwejmnx
ohgdnwqzowsqznxcgk--sqznxcgkwhqdhw gnjkagxwhjwdwudkwZwxzxk'hwgigkwtkje;wd
udkwhqdhwqdxk'hwgigcwxjkgwugwkjwqdcup

Zwedowojccbwhjwqgdcw.zuwodbwhqdh,wzhwedowomsqwdwnjegczkawjrwqzupw Ub
sjkoszgksgwajhwhjwohzcczkawugwmywqjhhgcwhqdkwgigc,wmkhznwdhwndohwZwodbo
hjwzh,w“Nghwmywjkwug--zhwdzk'hwhjjwndhgwbgh--Z'nnwydxxngwdoqjcgwdhwhqg
rzcohwnzaqhwdkxwhgnnp”w Zwrgnhwgdobwdkxwqdyybwdkxwnzaqhwdowdwrgdhqgc
czaqhwjrrpw Dnnwubwhcjm ngowedowajkgpw Zwegkhwhjwnjjtzkawjmhwoqdcywrjcwd
nzaqh,wdkxwojchwjrwozkazkawhjwubognrpw  bwdkxw bwjkgwoqjegxpw .zuwozkao
jmh:

“Eg'owodrg,wQmst,weg'owodrg!w .muywmywdkxwscdstwbj'wqggno!w Xdh'owxg
ajjxwjngwSdzcjwdhwndo',wZw.zowtkjeowzh!”

Zwodbo:

“Z'nnwhdtgwhqgwsdkjgwdkxwajwdkxwogg,w.zupw Zhwuzaqhk'hw g,wbjmwtkjep”

Qgw.muygxwdkxwajhwhqgwsdkjgwcgdxb,wdkxwymhwqzowjnxwsjdhwzkwhqgw jhhju
rjcwugwhjwoghwjk,wdkxwazigwugwhqgwydxxng;wdkxwdowZwoqjigxwjrr,wqgwodbo:

“YjjhbwojjkwZ'nnw gwd-oqjmh'k'wrjcw.jb,wgkwZ'nnwodb,wzh'owdnnwjk
dssjmkhowj'wQmst;wZ'owdwrcggwudk,wgkwZwsjmnxk'hwgigcw gkwrcggwgrwzh
qdxk'w gkwrjcwQmst;wQmstwxjkgwzhpw .zuwejk'hwgigcwrjcazhwbjm,wQmst;
bjm'owxgw go'wrcgk'w.zu'owgigcwqdx;wgkwbjm'owxgw_jknb_wrcgk'wjngw.zu'o
ajhwkjep”

Zwedowydxxnzkawjrr,wdnnwzkwdwoegdhwhjwhgnnwjkwqzu;w mhweqgkwqgwodbo
hqzo,wzhwoggugxwhjwtzkxwjrwhdtgwhqgwhmstwdnnwjmhwjrwugpw Zwegkhwdnjka
onjewhqgk,wdkxwZwedck'hwczaqhwxjekwsgchdzkweqghqgcwZwedowandxwZwohdchgx
jcweqghqgcwZwedck'hpw EqgkwZwedowrzrhbwbdcxowjrr,w.zuwodbo:

“Xdqwbjmwajgo,wxgwjngwhcmgwQmst;wxgwjk'bweqzhgwagknudkwxdhwgigcwtgy'wqzo
ycjuzogwhjwjngw.zup”

Egnn,wZw.mohwrgnhwozstpw  mhwZwodbo,wZw_ajh_whjwxjwzh--Zwsdk'hwaghw_jmh_
jrwzhpw Czaqhwhqgkwdnjkawsjugowdwotzrrwezhqwhejwugkwzkwzhwezhqwamko,wdkx
hqgbwohjyygxwdkxwZwohjyygxpw Jkgwjrwhqguwodbo:

“Eqdh'owhqdhwbjkxgc?”

“Dwyzgsgwjrwdwcdrh,”wZwodbop

“Xjwbjmw gnjkawjkwzh?”

“Bgo,wozcp”

“Dkbwugkwjkwzh?”

“Jknbwjkg,wozcp”

“Egnn,whqgcg'owrzigwkzaagcowcmkwjrrwhj-kzaqhwmywbjkxgc,wd jigwhqgwqgdx
jrwhqgw gkxpw Zowbjmcwudkweqzhgwjcw ndst?”

Zwxzxk'hwdkoegcwmywycjuyhpw Zwhczgxwhj,w mhwhqgwejcxowejmnxk'hwsjugpwZ
hczgxwrjcwdwogsjkxwjcwhejwhjw cdsgwmywdkxwjmhwezhqwzh,w mhwZwedck'hwudk
gkjmaq--qdxk'hwhqgwoymktwjrwdwcd  zhpw ZwoggwZwedowegdtgkzka;wojwZw.moh
azigwmywhcbzka,wdkxwmywdkxwodbo:

“Qg'oweqzhgp”

“Zwcgstjkweg'nnwajwdkxwoggwrjcwjmcognigop”

“Zwezoqwbjmwejmnx,”wodbowZ,w“ gsdmogwzh'owydywhqdh'owhqgcg,wdkxwudb g
bjm'xwqgnywugwhjewhqgwcdrhwdoqjcgweqgcgwhqgwnzaqhwzopw Qg'owozst--dkxwoj
zowuduwdkxwUdcbwDkkp”

“Jq,whqgwxgizn!weg'cgwzkwdwqmccb,w jbpw  mhwZwo'yjogweg'igwajhwhjp
 Sjug,w mstngwhjwbjmcwydxxng,wdkxwngh'owaghwdnjkap”

Zw mstngxwhjwubwydxxngwdkxwhqgbwndzxwhjwhqgzcwjdcopw Eqgkwegwqdxwudxgwd
ohcjtgwjcwhej,wZwodbo:

“Ydy'nnw gwuzaqhbwumsqwj nggagxwhjwbjm,wZwsdkwhgnnwbjmpw Gigcb jxbwajgo
dedbweqgkwZwedkhwhqguwhjwqgnywugwhjewhqgwcdrhwdoqjcg,wdkxwZwsdk'hwxjwzh
 bwubognrp”

“Egnn,whqdh'owzkrgckdnwugdkpw Jxx,whjjpw Odb,w jb,weqdh'owhqgwudhhgc
ezhqwbjmcwrdhqgc?”

“Zh'owhqg--d--hqg--egnn,wzhwdzk'hwdkbhqzkawumsqp”

Hqgbwohjyygxwymnnzkapw Zhwedck'hw mhwdwuzaqhbwnzhhngwedbowhjwhqgwcdrh
kjepwJkgwodbo:

“ jb,whqdh'owdwnzgpw Eqdhw_zo_whqgwudhhgcwezhqwbjmcwydy?w Dkoegcwmy
ovmdcgwkje,wdkxwzh'nnw gwhqgw ghhgcwrjcwbjmp”

“Zweznn,wozc,wZweznn,wqjkgoh-- mhwxjk'hwngdigwmo,wyngdogpw Zh'o
hqg--hqg--Agkhngugk,wzrwbjm'nnwjknbwymnnwdqgdx,wdkxwnghwugwqgdigwbjmwhqg
qgdxnzkg,wbjmwejk'hwqdigwhjwsjugwd-kgdcwhqgwcdrh--yngdogwxjp”

“Oghwqgcw dst,w.jqk,woghwqgcw dst!”wodbowjkgpw Hqgbw dstgxwedhgcpww“Tggy
dedb,w jb--tggywhjwnjjdcxpw Sjkrjmkxwzh,wZw.mohwgfygshwhqgwezkxwqdo
 njegxwzhwhjwmopw Bjmcwydy'owajhwhqgwoudnn-yjf,wdkxwbjmwtkjewzhwycgszjmo
egnnpw Eqbwxzxk'hwbjmwsjugwjmhwdkxwodbwoj?w Xjwbjmwedkhwhjwoycgdxwzhwdnn
jigc?”

“Egnn,”wodbowZ,wd- nm  gczka,w“Z'igwhjnxwgigcb jxbw grjcg,wdkxwhqgbw.moh
egkhwdedbwdkxwngrhwmop”

“Yjjcwxgizn,whqgcg'owojughqzkawzkwhqdhpw Egwdcgwczaqhwxjekwojccbwrjc
bjm,w mhweg--egnn,wqdkawzh,wegwxjk'hwedkhwhqgwoudnn-yjf,wbjmwoggpw Njjt
qgcg,wZ'nnwhgnnwbjmweqdhwhjwxjpw Xjk'hwbjmwhcbwhjwndkxw bwbjmcognr,wjc
bjm'nnwoudoqwgigcbhqzkawhjwyzgsgopw Bjmwrnjdhwdnjkawxjekwd jmhwhegkhb
uzngo,wdkxwbjm'nnwsjugwhjwdwhjekwjkwhqgwngrh-qdkxwozxgwjrwhqgwczigcpw Zh
eznnw gwnjkawdrhgcwomk-mywhqgk,wdkxweqgkwbjmwdotwrjcwqgnywbjmwhgnnwhqgu
bjmcwrjntowdcgwdnnwxjekwezhqwsqznnowdkxwrgigcpw Xjk'hw gwdwrjjnwdadzk,
dkxwnghwygjyngwamgooweqdhwzowhqgwudhhgcpw Kjeweg'cgwhcbzkawhjwxjwbjmwd
tzkxkgoo;wojwbjmw.mohwymhwhegkhbwuzngow gheggkwmo,whqdh'owdwajjxw jbp
 Zhwejmnxk'hwxjwdkbwajjxwhjwndkxwbjkxgcweqgcgwhqgwnzaqhwzo--zh'owjknbwd
ejjx-bdcxpwOdb,wZwcgstjkwbjmcwrdhqgc'owyjjc,wdkxwZ'uw jmkxwhjwodbwqg'o
zkwycghhbwqdcxwnmstpw Qgcg,wZ'nnwymhwdwhegkhb-xjnndcwajnxwyzgsgwjkwhqzo
 jdcx,wdkxwbjmwaghwzhweqgkwzhwrnjdhow bpw Zwrggnwuzaqhbwugdkwhjwngdig
bjm;w mhwubwtzkaxju!wzhwejk'hwxjwhjwrjjnwezhqwoudnn-yjf,wxjk'hwbjmwogg?”

“Qjnxwjk,wYdctgc,”wodbowhqgwjhqgcwudk,w“qgcg'owdwhegkhbwhjwymhwjkwhqg
 jdcxwrjcwugpw Ajjx- bg,w jb;wbjmwxjwdowUcpwYdctgcwhjnxwbjm,wdkxwbjm'nn
 gwdnnwczaqhp”

“Hqdh'owoj,wubw jb--ajjx- bg,wajjx- bgpw Zrwbjmwoggwdkbwcmkdedbwkzaagco
bjmwaghwqgnywdkxwkd whqgu,wdkxwbjmwsdkwudtgwojugwujkgbw bwzhp”

“Ajjx- bg,wozc,”wodbowZ;w“Zwejk'hwnghwkjwcmkdedbwkzaagcowaghw bwugwzrwZ
sdkwqgnywzhp”

HqgbwegkhwjrrwdkxwZwajhwd jdcxwhqgwcdrh,wrggnzkaw dxwdkxwnje,w gsdmogwZ
tkjegxwigcbwegnnwZwqdxwxjkgwecjka,wdkxwZwoggwzhwedck'hwkjwmogwrjcwug
hjwhcbwhjwngdckwhjwxjwczaqh;wdw jxbwhqdhwxjk'hwaghw_ohdchgx_wczaqhweqgk
qg'ownzhhngwdzk'hwajhwkjwoqje--eqgkwhqgwyzksqwsjugowhqgcgwdzk'hwkjhqzka
hjw dstwqzuwmywdkxwtggywqzuwhjwqzowejct,wdkxwojwqgwaghow gdhpw HqgkwZ
hqjmaqhwdwuzkmhg,wdkxwodbowhjwubognr,wqjnxwjk;wo'yjogwbjm'xwdwxjkgwczaqh
dkxwazigw.zuwmy,wejmnxwbjmwrgnhw ghhgcwhqdkweqdhwbjmwxjwkje?w Kj,wodbo
Z,wZ'xwrggnw dx--Z'xwrggnw.mohwhqgwodugwedbwZwxjwkjepw Egnn,whqgk,wodbo
Z,weqdh'owhqgwmogwbjmwngdckzkawhjwxjwczaqhweqgkwzh'owhcjm ngojugwhjwxj
czaqhwdkxwdzk'hwkjwhcjm ngwhjwxjwecjka,wdkxwhqgwedagowzow.mohwhqgwodug?
 Zwedowohmstpw Zwsjmnxk'hwdkoegcwhqdhpw OjwZwcgstjkgxwZwejmnxk'hw jhqgc
kjwujcgwd jmhwzh,w mhwdrhgcwhqzowdnedbowxjweqzsqgigcwsjugwqdkxzgohwdh
hqgwhzugp

Zwegkhwzkhjwhqgwezaedu;w.zuwedck'hwhqgcgpw Zwnjjtgxwdnnwdcjmkx;wqg
edck'hwdkbeqgcgpw Zwodbo:

“.zu!”

“QgcgwZwzo,wQmstpw Zowxgbwjmhwj'wozaqhwbzh?w Xjk'hwhdntwnjmxp”

Qgwedowzkwhqgwczigcwmkxgcwhqgwohgckwjdc,wezhqw.mohwqzowkjogwjmhpw Zwhjnx
qzuwhqgbwegcgwjmhwjrwozaqh,wojwqgwsjugwd jdcxpw Qgwodbo:

“Zwedowd-nzohgkzk'whjwdnnwxgwhdnt,wgkwZwonzyowzkhjwxgwczigcwgkwedowaebkg
hjwoqjigwrjcwoqj'wzrwxgbwsjugwd jdcxpw XgkwZwedowaebkgwhjwoezuwhjwxg
cdr'wdazkweqgkwxgbwedowajkgpw  mhwndeob,wqjewbjmwxzxwrjjnw'gu,wQmst!
 Xdhw_eml_wxgwoudchgo'wxjxag!w Zwhgnnwbjm,wsqzng,wZ'oygswzhwodig'wjng
.zu--jngw.zuwdzk'hwajzkawhjwrjcazhwbjmwrjcwxdh,wqjkgbp”

Hqgkwegwhdntgxwd jmhwhqgwujkgbpw Zhwedowdwycghhbwajjxwcdzog--hegkhb
xjnndcowdyzgsgpw .zuwodzxwegwsjmnxwhdtgwxgstwydoodagwjkwdwohgdu jdh
kje,wdkxwhqgwujkgbwejmnxwndohwmowdowrdcwdowegwedkhgxwhjwajwzkwhqgwrcgg
OhdhgopwQgwodzxwhegkhbwuzngwujcgwedck'hwrdcwrjcwhqgwcdrhwhjwaj,w mhwqg
ezoqgxwegwedowdncgdxbwhqgcgp

Hjedcxowxdb cgdtwegwhzgxwmy,wdkxw.zuwedowuzaqhbwydchzsmndcwd jmhwqzxzka
hqgwcdrhwajjxpw Hqgkwqgwejctgxwdnnwxdbwrzfzkawhqzkaowzkw mkxngo,wdkx
aghhzkawdnnwcgdxbwhjwvmzhwcdrhzkap

Hqdhwkzaqhwd jmhwhgkwegwqjigwzkwozaqhwjrwhqgwnzaqhowjrwdwhjekwdedbwxjek
zkwdwngrh-qdkxw gkxp

Zwegkhwjrrwzkwhqgwsdkjgwhjwdotwd jmhwzhpw YcghhbwojjkwZwrjmkxwdwudkwjmh
zkwhqgwczigcwezhqwdwotzrr,woghhzkawdwhcjh-nzkgpw Zwcdkagxwmywdkxwodbo:

“Uzohgc,wzowhqdhwhjekwSdzcj?”

“Sdzcj?wkjpw Bjmwumohw gwdw ndug'wrjjnp”

“Eqdhwhjekwzowzh,wuzohgc?”

“Zrwbjmwedkhwhjwtkje,wajwdkxwrzkxwjmhpw Zrwbjmwohdbwqgcgw jhqgczk'
dcjmkxwugwrjcwd jmhwdwqdnrwdwuzkmhgwnjkagcwbjm'nnwaghwojughqzkawbjm
ejk'hwedkhp”

Zwydxxngxwhjwhqgwcdrhpw .zuwedowdermnwxzodyyjzkhgx,w mhwZwodzxwkgigc
uzkx,wSdzcjwejmnxw gwhqgwkgfhwyndsg,wZwcgstjkgxp

Egwydoogxwdkjhqgcwhjekw grjcgwxdbnzaqh,wdkxwZwedowajzkawjmhwdadzk;w mh
zhwedowqzaqwacjmkx,wojwZwxzxk'hwajpw Kjwqzaqwacjmkxwd jmhwSdzcj,w.zu
odzxpwZwqdxwrjcajhwzhpw Egwndzxwmywrjcwhqgwxdbwjkwdwhjeqgdxwhjngcd ng
snjogwhjwhqgwngrh-qdkxw dktpw Zw gamkwhjwomoyzszjkwojughqzkapw Ojwxzx
.zupw Zwodbo:

“Udb gwegwegkhw bwSdzcjwzkwhqgwrjawhqdhwkzaqhp”

Qgwodbo:

“Xjdk'wng'owhdntwd jmhwzh,wQmstpw Yj'wkzaagcowsdk'hwqdigwkjwnmstpw Z
denmlw'oygshgxwxdhwcdhhngokdtg-otzkwedck'hwxjkgwezxwzhowejctp”

“ZwezoqwZ'xwkgigcwoggkwhqdhwokdtg-otzk,w.zu--ZwxjwezoqwZ'xwkgigcwndzx
gbgowjkwzhp”

“Zhwdzk'hwbj'wrdmnh,wQmst;wbjmwxzxk'wtkjepw Xjk'hwbjmw ndugwbj'ognr
' jmhwzhp”

Eqgkwzhwedowxdbnzaqh,wqgcgwedowhqgwsngdcwJqzjwedhgcwzkoqjcg,womcg
gkjmaq,wdkxwjmhozxgwedowhqgwjnxwcgamndcwUmxxb!w Ojwzhwedowdnnwmywezhq
Sdzcjp

Egwhdntgxwzhwdnnwjigcpw Zhwejmnxk'hwxjwhjwhdtgwhjwhqgwoqjcg;wegwsjmnxk'h
hdtgwhqgwcdrhwmywhqgwohcgdu,wjrwsjmcogpw Hqgcgwedck'hwkjwedbw mhwhjwedzh
rjcwxdct,wdkxwohdchw dstwzkwhqgwsdkjgwdkxwhdtgwhqgwsqdksgopw Ojwegwongyh
dnnwxdbwdujkaohwhqgwsjhhjkejjxwhqzstgh,wojwdowhjw gwrcgoqwrjcwhqgwejct,
dkxweqgkwegwegkhw dstwhjwhqgwcdrhwd jmhwxdctwhqgwsdkjgwedowajkg!

Egwxzxk'hwodbwdwejcxwrjcwdwajjxweqzngpw Hqgcgwedck'hwdkbhqzkawhj
odbpw Egw jhqwtkjegxwegnnwgkjmaqwzhwedowojugwujcgwejctwjrwhqg
cdhhngokdtg-otzk;wojweqdhwedowhqgwmogwhjwhdntwd jmhwzh?w Zhwejmnxwjknb
njjtwnztgwegwedowrzkxzkawrdmnh,wdkxwhqdhwejmnxw gw jmkxwhjwrghsqwujcg
 dxwnmst--dkxwtggywjkwrghsqzkawzh,whjj,whznnwegwtkjegxwgkjmaqwhjwtggy
ohznnp

 bwdkxw bwegwhdntgxwd jmhweqdhwegw ghhgcwxj,wdkxwrjmkxwhqgcgwedck'hwkj
edbw mhw.mohwhjwajwdnjkawxjekwezhqwhqgwcdrhwhznnwegwajhwdwsqdksgwhjw mb
dwsdkjgwhjwajw dstwzkpw Egwedck'hwajzkawhjw jccjewzhweqgkwhqgcgwedck'h
dkb jxbwdcjmkx,whqgwedbwydywejmnxwxj,wrjcwhqdhwuzaqhwoghwygjyngwdrhgc
mop

Ojwegwoqjigxwjmhwdrhgcwxdctwjkwhqgwcdrhp

Dkb jxbwhqdhwxjk'hw gnzgigwbghwhqdhwzh'owrjjnzoqkgoowhjwqdkxngwd
okdtg-otzk,wdrhgcwdnnwhqdhwhqdhwokdtg-otzkwxjkgwrjcwmo,weznnw gnzgigwzh
kjewzrwhqgbwcgdxwjkwdkxwoggweqdhwujcgwzhwxjkgwrjcwmop

Hqgwyndsgwhjw mbwsdkjgowzowjrrwjrwcdrhowndbzkawmywdhwoqjcgpw  mhweg
xzxk'hwoggwkjwcdrhowndbzkawmy;wojwegwegkhwdnjkawxmczkawhqcggwqjmcowdkx
ujcgpw Egnn,whqgwkzaqhwajhwacdbwdkxwcmhqgcwhqzst,weqzsqwzowhqgwkgfh
ugdkgohwhqzkawhjwrjapw Bjmwsdk'hwhgnnwhqgwoqdygwjrwhqgwczigc,wdkxwbjm
sdk'hwoggwkjwxzohdksgpwZhwajhwhjw gwigcbwndhgwdkxwohznn,wdkxwhqgkwdnjka
sjugowdwohgdu jdhwmywhqgwczigcpw Egwnzhwhqgwndkhgck,wdkxw.mxagxwoqg
ejmnxwoggwzhpw My-ohcgduw jdhowxzxk'hwagkgcnbwsjugwsnjogwhjwmo;whqgb
ajwjmhwdkxwrjnnjewhqgw dcowdkxwqmkhwrjcwgdobwedhgcwmkxgcwhqgwcggro;w mh
kzaqhownztgwhqzowhqgbw mnnwczaqhwmywhqgwsqdkkgnwdadzkohwhqgweqjngwczigcp

Egwsjmnxwqgdcwqgcwyjmkxzkawdnjka,w mhwegwxzxk'hwoggwqgcwajjxwhznnwoqg
edowsnjogpw Oqgwdzugxwczaqhwrjcwmopw Jrhgkwhqgbwxjwhqdhwdkxwhcbwhjwogg
qjewsnjogwhqgbwsdkwsjugwezhqjmhwhjmsqzka;wojughzugowhqgweqggnw zhgowjrr
dwoeggy,wdkxwhqgkwhqgwyznjhwohzstowqzowqgdxwjmhwdkxwndmaqo,wdkxwhqzkto
qg'owuzaqhbwoudchpw Egnn,wqgcgwoqgwsjugo,wdkxwegwodzxwoqgwedowajzkawhj
hcbwdkxwoqdigwmo;w mhwoqgwxzxk'hwogguwhjw gwoqggczkawjrrwdw zhpw Oqg
edowdw zawjkg,wdkxwoqgwedowsjuzkawzkwdwqmccb,whjj,wnjjtzkawnztgwdw ndst
snjmxwezhqwcjeowjrwanje-ejcuowdcjmkxwzh;w mhwdnnwjrwdwomxxgkwoqgw mnagx
jmh,w zawdkxwosdcb,wezhqwdwnjkawcjewjrwezxg-jygkwrmckdsgwxjjcowoqzkzka
nztgwcgx-qjhwhgghq,wdkxwqgcwujkohcjmow jeowdkxwamdcxowqdkazkawczaqh
jigcwmopw Hqgcgwedowdwbgnnwdhwmo,wdkxwdw.zkanzkawjrw gnnowhjwohjywhqg
gkazkgo,wdwyjeejewjrwsmoozka,wdkxweqzohnzkawjrwohgdu--dkxwdow.zuwegkh
jigc jdcxwjkwjkgwozxgwdkxwZwjkwhqgwjhqgc,woqgwsjugwoudoqzkawohcdzaqh
hqcjmaqwhqgwcdrhp

Zwxzigx--dkxwZwdzugxwhjwrzkxwhqgw jhhju,whjj,wrjcwdwhqzchb-rjjhweqggn
qdxwajhwhjwajwjigcwug,wdkxwZwedkhgxwzhwhjwqdigwyngkhbwjrwcjjupw Zwsjmnx
dnedbowohdbwmkxgcwedhgcwdwuzkmhg;whqzowhzugwZwcgstjkwZwohdbgxwmkxgcwd
uzkmhgwdkxwdwqdnrpw HqgkwZw jmksgxwrjcwhqgwhjywzkwdwqmccb,wrjcwZwedo
kgdcnbw mohzkapw Zwyjyygxwjmhwhjwubwdcuyzhowdkxw njegxwhqgwedhgcwjmhwjr
ubwkjog,wdkxwymrrgxwdw zhpw Jrwsjmcogwhqgcgwedowdw jjuzkawsmccgkh;wdkx
jrwsjmcogwhqdhw jdhwohdchgxwqgcwgkazkgowdadzkwhgkwogsjkxowdrhgcwoqg
ohjyygxwhqgu,wrjcwhqgbwkgigcwsdcgxwumsqwrjcwcdrhougk;wojwkjewoqgwedo
sqmckzkawdnjkawmywhqgwczigc,wjmhwjrwozaqhwzkwhqgwhqzstwegdhqgc,whqjmaqwZ
sjmnxwqgdcwqgcp

Zwomkawjmhwrjcw.zuwd jmhwdwxjlgkwhzugo,w mhwZwxzxk'hwaghwdkbwdkoegc;
ojwZwacd  gxwdwyndktwhqdhwhjmsqgxwugweqzngwZwedow“hcgdxzkawedhgc,”wdkx
ohcmstwjmhwrjcwoqjcg,woqjizkawzhwdqgdxwjrwugpw  mhwZwudxgwjmhwhjwogg
hqdhwhqgwxczrhwjrwhqgwsmccgkhwedowhjedcxowhqgwngrh-qdkxwoqjcg,weqzsq
ugdkhwhqdhwZwedowzkwdwscjoozka;wojwZwsqdkagxwjrrwdkxwegkhwhqdhwedbp

Zhwedowjkgwjrwhqgogwnjka,wondkhzka,whej-uzngwscjoozkao;wojwZwedowdwajjx
njkawhzugwzkwaghhzkawjigcpw Zwudxgwdwodrgwndkxzka,wdkxwsnmu wmywhqg
 dktpwZwsjmnxk'hwoggw mhwdwnzhhngwedbo,w mhwZwegkhwyjtzkawdnjkawjigc
cjmaqwacjmkxwrjcwdwvmdchgcwjrwdwuzngwjcwujcg,wdkxwhqgkwZwcmkwdscjoowd
 zawjnx-rdoqzjkgxwxjm ngwnja-qjmogw grjcgwZwkjhzsgxwzhpw Zwedowajzkawhj
cmoqw bwdkxwaghwdedb,w mhwdwnjhwjrwxjaow.muygxwjmhwdkxwegkhwhjwqjenzka
dkxw dctzkawdhwug,wdkxwZwtkjegxw ghhgcwhqdkwhjwujigwdkjhqgcwygap




SQDYHGCwFIZZp

ZKwd jmhwdwuzkmhgwojug jxbwoyjtgwjmhwjrwdwezkxjewezhqjmhwymhhzkawqzo
qgdxwjmh,wdkxwodbo:

“ gwxjkg,w jbo!w Eqj'owhqgcg?”

Zwodbo:

“Zh'owugp”

“Eqj'owug?”

“Agjcagw.dstojk,wozcp”

“Eqdhwxjwbjmwedkh?”

“Zwxjk'hwedkhwkjhqzka,wozcpw Zwjknbwedkhwhjwajwdnjkaw b,w mhwhqgwxjao
ejk'hwnghwugp”

“Eqdhwdcgwbjmwycjenzkawdcjmkxwqgcgwhqzowhzugwjrwkzaqhwrjc--qgb?”

“Zwedck'hwycjenzkawdcjmkx,wozc,wZwrgnnwjigc jdcxwjrrwjrwhqgwohgdu jdhp”

“Jq,wbjmwxzx,wxzxwbjm?w Ohcztgwdwnzaqhwhqgcg,wojug jxbpw Eqdhwxzxwbjm
odbwbjmcwkdugwedo?”

“Agjcagw.dstojk,wozcpw Z'uwjknbwdw jbp”

“Njjtwqgcg,wzrwbjm'cgwhgnnzkawhqgwhcmhqwbjmwkggxk'hw gwdrcdzx--kj jxb'nn
qmchwbjmpw  mhwxjk'hwhcbwhjw mxag;wohdkxwczaqhweqgcgwbjmwdcgpw Cjmogwjmh
 j wdkxwHju,wojugwjrwbjm,wdkxwrghsqwhqgwamkopw Agjcagw.dstojk,wzowhqgcg
dkb jxbwezhqwbjm?”

“Kj,wozc,wkj jxbp”

Zwqgdcxwhqgwygjyngwohzcczkawdcjmkxwzkwhqgwqjmogwkje,wdkxwoggwdwnzaqhp
Hqgwudkwomkawjmh:

“Okdhsqwhqdhwnzaqhwdedb,w ghob,wbjmwjnxwrjjn--dzk'hwbjmwajhwdkbwogkog?
Ymhwzhwjkwhqgwrnjjcw gqzkxwhqgwrcjkhwxjjcpw  j ,wzrwbjmwdkxwHjuwdcg
cgdxb,whdtgwbjmcwyndsgop”

“Dnnwcgdxbp”

“Kje,wAgjcagw.dstojk,wxjwbjmwtkjewhqgwOqgyqgcxojko?”

“Kj,wozc;wZwkgigcwqgdcxwjrwhqgup”

“Egnn,whqdhwudbw gwoj,wdkxwzhwudbk'hpw Kje,wdnnwcgdxbpw Ohgywrjcedcx,
Agjcagw.dstojkpw Dkxwuzkx,wxjk'hwbjmwqmccb--sjugwuzaqhbwonjepw Zrwhqgcg'o
dkb jxbwezhqwbjm,wnghwqzuwtggyw dst--zrwqgwoqjeowqzuognrwqg'nnw gwoqjhp
Sjugwdnjkawkjepw Sjugwonje;wymoqwhqgwxjjcwjygkwbjmcognr--.mohwgkjmaqwhj
ovmgglgwzk,wx'wbjmwqgdc?”

Zwxzxk'hwqmccb;wZwsjmnxk'hwzrwZ'xwdwedkhgxwhjpw Zwhjjtwjkgwonjewohgywdh
dwhzugwdkxwhqgcgwedck'hwdwojmkx,wjknbwZwhqjmaqhwZwsjmnxwqgdcwubwqgdchp
 Hqgwxjaowegcgwdowohznnwdowhqgwqmudko,w mhwhqgbwrjnnjegxwdwnzhhngw gqzkx
ugpwEqgkwZwajhwhjwhqgwhqcggwnjawxjjcohgyowZwqgdcxwhqguwmknjstzkawdkx
mk dcczkawdkxwmk jnhzkapw Zwymhwubwqdkxwjkwhqgwxjjcwdkxwymoqgxwzhwd
nzhhngwdkxwdwnzhhngwujcgwhznnwojug jxbwodzx,w“Hqgcg,whqdh'owgkjmaq--ymh
bjmcwqgdxwzkp”wZwxjkgwzh,w mhwZw.mxagxwhqgbwejmnxwhdtgwzhwjrrp

Hqgwsdkxngwedowjkwhqgwrnjjc,wdkxwhqgcgwhqgbwdnnwedo,wnjjtzkawdhwug,wdkx
ugwdhwhqgu,wrjcwd jmhwdwvmdchgcwjrwdwuzkmhg:w Hqcggw zawugkwezhqwamko
yjzkhgxwdhwug,weqzsqwudxgwugwezksg,wZwhgnnwbjm;whqgwjnxgoh,wacdb
dkxwd jmhwozfhb,whqgwjhqgcwhejwhqzchbwjcwujcg--dnnwjrwhqguwrzkgwdkx
qdkxojug--dkxwhqgwoegghgohwjnxwacdb-qgdxgxwndxb,wdkxw dstwjrwqgcwhej
bjmkawejugkweqzsqwZwsjmnxk'hwoggwczaqhwegnnpw Hqgwjnxwagkhngudkwodbo:

“Hqgcg;wZwcgstjkwzh'owdnnwczaqhpw Sjugwzkp”

DowojjkwdowZwedowzkwhqgwjnxwagkhngudkwqgwnjstgxwhqgwxjjcwdkxw dccgxwzh
dkxw jnhgxwzh,wdkxwhjnxwhqgwbjmkawugkwhjwsjugwzkwezhqwhqgzcwamko,wdkx
hqgbwdnnwegkhwzkwdw zawydcnjcwhqdhwqdxwdwkgewcdawsdcyghwjkwhqgwrnjjc,
dkxwajhwhjaghqgcwzkwdwsjckgcwhqdhwedowjmhwjrwhqgwcdkagwjrwhqgwrcjkh
ezkxjeo--hqgcgwedck'hwkjkgwjkwhqgwozxgpw Hqgbwqgnxwhqgwsdkxng,wdkxwhjjtwd
ajjxwnjjtwdhwug,wdkxwdnnwodzx,w“Eqb,w_qg_wdzk'hwdwOqgyqgcxojk--kj,whqgcg
dzk'hwdkbwOqgyqgcxojkwd jmhwqzup”w HqgkwhqgwjnxwudkwodzxwqgwqjygxwZ
ejmnxk'hwuzkxw gzkawogdcsqgxwrjcwdcuo,w gsdmogwqgwxzxk'hwugdkwkjwqdcuw b
zh--zhwedowjknbwhjwudtgwomcgpw Ojwqgwxzxk'hwycbwzkhjwubwyjstgho,w mhwjknb
rgnhwjmhozxgwezhqwqzowqdkxo,wdkxwodzxwzhwedowdnnwczaqhpw Qgwhjnxwugwhj
udtgwubognrwgdobwdkxwdhwqjug,wdkxwhgnnwdnnwd jmhwubognr;w mhwhqgwjnx
ndxbwodbo:

“Eqb,w ngoowbjm,wOdmn,whqgwyjjcwhqzka'owdoweghwdowqgwsdkw g;wdkxwxjk'h
bjmwcgstjkwzhwudbw gwqg'owqmkacb?”

“Hcmgwrjcwbjm,wCdsqgn--Zwrjcajhp”

Ojwhqgwjnxwndxbwodbo:

“ ghob”w(hqzowedowdwkzaagcwejudk),w“bjmwrnbwdcjmkxwdkxwaghwqzuwojughqzka
hjwgdhwdowvmzstwdowbjmwsdk,wyjjcwhqzka;wdkxwjkgwjrwbjmwazcnowajwdkxwedtg
myw mstwdkxwhgnnwqzu--jq,wqgcgwqgwzowqzuognrpw  mst,whdtgwhqzownzhhng
ohcdkagcwdkxwaghwhqgweghwsnjhqgowjrrwrcjuwqzuwdkxwxcgoowqzuwmywzkwojug
jrwbjmcowhqdh'owxcbp”

 mstwnjjtgxwd jmhwdowjnxwdowug--hqzchggkwjcwrjmchggkwjcwdnjkawhqgcg,
hqjmaqwqgwedowdwnzhhngw zaagcwhqdkwugpw Qgwqdxk'hwjkwdkbhqzkaw mhwd
oqzch,wdkxwqgwedowigcbwrcjelb-qgdxgxpw Qgwsdugwzkwadyzkawdkxwxzaazkawjkg
rzohwzkhjwqzowgbgo,wdkxwqgwedowxcdaazkawdwamkwdnjkawezhqwhqgwjhqgcwjkgp
Qgwodbo:

“Dzk'hwhqgbwkjwOqgyqgcxojkowdcjmkx?”

Hqgbwodzx,wkj,w'hedowdwrdnogwdndcup

“Egnn,”wqgwodbo,w“zrwhqgb'xwdw gkwojug,wZwcgstjkwZ'xwdwajhwjkgp”

Hqgbwdnnwndmaqgx,wdkxw j wodbo:

“Eqb,w mst,whqgbwuzaqhwqdigwosdnygxwmowdnn,wbjm'igw ggkwojwonjewzk
sjuzkap”

“Egnn,wkj jxbwsjugwdrhgcwug,wdkxwzhwdzk'hwczaqhwZ'uwdnedbowtgyhwxjek;wZ
xjk'hwaghwkjwoqjep”

“Kgigcwuzkx,w mst,wubw jb,”wodbowhqgwjnxwudk,w“bjm'nnwqdigwoqjewgkjmaq,
dnnwzkwajjxwhzug,wxjk'hwbjmwrcghwd jmhwhqdhpw Ajw'njkawezhqwbjmwkje,wdkx
xjwdowbjmcwujhqgcwhjnxwbjmp”

Eqgkwegwajhwmy-ohdzcowhjwqzowcjjuwqgwajhwugwdwsjdcogwoqzchwdkxwd
cjmkxd jmhwdkxwydkhowjrwqzo,wdkxwZwymhwhqguwjkpw EqzngwZwedowdhwzhwqg
dotgxwugweqdhwubwkdugwedo,w mhw grjcgwZwsjmnxwhgnnwqzuwqgwohdchgxwhj
hgnnwugwd jmhwdw nmg.dbwdkxwdwbjmkawcd  zhwqgwqdxwsdhsqgxwzkwhqgwejjxo
xdbw grjcgwbgohgcxdb,wdkxwqgwdotgxwugweqgcgwUjogowedoweqgkwhqgwsdkxng
egkhwjmhpw ZwodzxwZwxzxk'hwtkje;wZwqdxk'hwqgdcxwd jmhwzhw grjcg,wkjwedbp

“Egnn,wamgoo,”wqgwodbop

“Qje'uwZwajzkawhjwamgoo,”wodbowZ,w“eqgkwZwkgigcwqgdcxwhgnnwjrwzh
 grjcg?”

“ mhwbjmwsdkwamgoo,wsdk'hwbjm?w Zh'ow.mohwdowgdobp”

“_Eqzsq_wsdkxng?”w Zwodbop

“Eqb,wdkbwsdkxng,”wqgwodbop

“Zwxjk'hwtkjeweqgcgwqgwedo,”wodbowZ;w“eqgcgwedowqg?”

“Eqb,wqgwedowzkwhqgw_xdct_!w Hqdh'oweqgcgwqgwedo!”

“Egnn,wzrwbjmwtkjegxweqgcgwqgwedo,weqdhwxzxwbjmwdotwugwrjc?”

“Eqb,w ndugwzh,wzh'owdwczxxng,wxjk'hwbjmwogg?w Odb,wqjewnjkawdcgwbjm
ajzkawhjwohdbwqgcg?w Bjmwajhwhjwohdbwdnedbopw Egwsdkw.mohwqdigw jjuzka
hzugo--hqgbwxjk'hwqdigwkjwosqjjnwkjepw Xjwbjmwjekwdwxja?w Z'igwajhwd
xja--dkxwqg'nnwajwzkwhqgwczigcwdkxw czkawjmhwsqzyowhqdhwbjmwhqcjewzkpw Xj
bjmwnztgwhjwsju wmywOmkxdbo,wdkxwdnnwhqdhwtzkxwjrwrjjnzoqkgoo?w Bjmw gh
Zwxjk'h,w mhwudwoqgwudtgowugpw Sjkrjmkxwhqgogwjngw czhsqgo!w Zwcgstjk
Z'xw ghhgcwymhw'guwjk,w mhwZ'xwcmhqgcwkjh,wzh'owojwedcupw Dcgwbjmwdnn
cgdxb?wDnnwczaqhpw Sjugwdnjka,wjnxwqjoop”

Sjnxwsjck-yjkg,wsjnxwsjck- ggr,w mhhgcwdkxw mhhgcuznt--hqdhwzoweqdhwhqgb
qdxwrjcwugwxjekwhqgcg,wdkxwhqgcgwdzk'hwkjhqzkaw ghhgcwhqdhwgigcwZ'ig
sjugwdscjoowbghpw  mstwdkxwqzowudwdkxwdnnwjrwhqguwoujtgxwsj wyzygo,
gfsgyhwhqgwkzaagcwejudk,weqzsqwedowajkg,wdkxwhqgwhejwbjmkawejugkpw Hqgb
dnnwoujtgxwdkxwhdntgx,wdkxwZwgdhwdkxwhdntgxpw Hqgwbjmkawejugkwqdx
vmznhowdcjmkxwhqgu,wdkxwhqgzcwqdzcwxjekwhqgzcw dstopw Hqgbwdnnwdotgxwug
vmgohzjko,wdkxwZwhjnxwhqguwqjewydywdkxwugwdkxwdnnwhqgwrduznbwedownzizka
jkwdwnzhhngwrdcuwxjekwdhwhqgw jhhjuwjrwDctdkode,wdkxwubwozohgcwUdcbwDkk
cmkwjrrwdkxwajhwudcczgxwdkxwkgigcwedowqgdcxwjrwkjwujcg,wdkxw znnwegkh
hjwqmkhwhqguwdkxwqgwedck'hwqgdcxwjrwkjwujcg,wdkxwHjuwdkxwUjchwxzgx,
dkxwhqgkwhqgcgwedck'hwkj jxbw mhw.mohwugwdkxwydywngrh,wdkxwqgwedow.moh
hczuugxwxjekwhjwkjhqzka,wjkwdssjmkhwjrwqzowhcjm ngo;wojweqgkwqgwxzgx
Zwhjjtweqdhwhqgcgwedowngrh,w gsdmogwhqgwrdcuwxzxk'hw gnjkawhjwmo,wdkx
ohdchgxwmywhqgwczigc,wxgstwydoodag,wdkxwrgnnwjigc jdcx;wdkxwhqdhwedowqje
Zwsjugwhjw gwqgcgpw OjwhqgbwodzxwZwsjmnxwqdigwdwqjugwhqgcgwdownjkawdowZ
edkhgxwzhpw Hqgkwzhwedowujohwxdbnzaqhwdkxwgigcb jxbwegkhwhjw gx,wdkxwZ
egkhwhjw gxwezhqw mst,wdkxweqgkwZwedtgxwmywzkwhqgwujckzka,wxcdhwzhwdnn,
ZwqdxwrjcajhweqdhwubwkdugwedopwOjwZwndzxwhqgcgwd jmhwdkwqjmcwhcbzkawhj
hqzkt,wdkxweqgkw mstwedtgxwmywZwodbo:

“Sdkwbjmwoygnn,w mst?”

“Bgo,”wqgwodbop

“Zw ghwbjmwsdk'hwoygnnwubwkdug,”wodbowZp

“Zw ghwbjmweqdhwbjmwxdcgwZwsdk,”wodbowqgp

“Dnnwczaqh,”wodbowZ,w“ajwdqgdxp”

“A-g-j-c-a-gw.-d-f-j-k--hqgcgwkje,”wqgwodbop

“Egnn,”wodbowZ,w“bjmwxjkgwzh,w mhwZwxzxk'hwhqzktwbjmwsjmnxpw Zhwdzk'hwkj
onjmsqwjrwdwkdugwhjwoygnn--czaqhwjrrwezhqjmhwohmxbzkap”

Zwoghwzhwxjek,wyczidhg,w gsdmogwojug jxbwuzaqhwedkhw_ug_whjwoygnnwzh
kgfh,wdkxwojwZwedkhgxwhjw gwqdkxbwezhqwzhwdkxwcdhhngwzhwjrrwnztgwZwedo
mogxwhjwzhp

Zhwedowdwuzaqhbwkzsgwrduznb,wdkxwdwuzaqhbwkzsgwqjmog,whjjpw Zwqdxk'h
oggkwkjwqjmogwjmhwzkwhqgwsjmkhcbw grjcgwhqdhwedowojwkzsgwdkxwqdxwojwumsq
ohbngpw Zhwxzxk'hwqdigwdkwzcjkwndhsqwjkwhqgwrcjkhwxjjc,wkjcwdwejjxgkwjkg
ezhqwdw mstotzkwohczka,w mhwdw cdoowtkj whjwhmck,whqgwodugwdowqjmogowzk
hjekpwHqgcgwedck'hwkjw gxwzkwhqgwydcnjc,wkjcwdwozakwjrwdw gx;w mhwqgdyo
jrwydcnjcowzkwhjekowqdow gxowzkwhqgupw Hqgcgwedowdw zawrzcgyndsgwhqdh
edow czstgxwjkwhqgw jhhju,wdkxwhqgw czstowedowtgyhwsngdkwdkxwcgxw b
yjmczkawedhgcwjkwhqguwdkxwoscm  zkawhqguwezhqwdkjhqgcw czst;wojughzugo
hqgbwedoqwhqguwjigcwezhqwcgxwedhgc-ydzkhwhqdhwhqgbwsdnnwOydkzoq- cjek,
odugwdowhqgbwxjwzkwhjekpw Hqgbwqdxw zaw cdoowxja-zcjkowhqdhwsjmnxwqjnx
mywdwode-njapwHqgcgwedowdwsnjstwjkwhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwudkhgnyzgsg,wezhq
dwyzshmcgwjrwdwhjekwydzkhgxwjkwhqgw jhhjuwqdnrwjrwhqgwandoowrcjkh,wdkx
dwcjmkxwyndsgwzkwhqgwuzxxngwjrwzhwrjcwhqgwomk,wdkxwbjmwsjmnxwoggwhqg
ygkxmnmuwoezkazkaw gqzkxwzhpw Zhwedow gdmhzrmnwhjwqgdcwhqdhwsnjstwhzst;
dkxwojughzugoweqgkwjkgwjrwhqgogwygxxngcowqdxw ggkwdnjkawdkxwosjmcgxwqgc
mywdkxwajhwqgcwzkwajjxwoqdyg,woqgwejmnxwohdchwzkwdkxwohcztgwdwqmkxcgx
dkxwrzrhbw grjcgwoqgwajhwhmstgcgxwjmhpw Hqgbwejmnxk'hwhjjtwdkbwujkgbwrjc
qgcp

Egnn,whqgcgwedowdw zawjmhndkxzoqwydccjhwjkwgdsqwozxgwjrwhqgwsnjst,
udxgwjmhwjrwojughqzkawnztgwsqdnt,wdkxwydzkhgxwmywadmxbpw  bwjkgwjrwhqg
ydccjhowedowdwsdhwudxgwjrwscjstgcb,wdkxwdwscjstgcbwxjaw bwhqgwjhqgc;
dkxweqgkwbjmwycgoogxwxjekwjkwhqguwhqgbwovmgdtgx,w mhwxzxk'hwjygk
hqgzcwujmhqowkjcwnjjtwxzrrgcgkhwkjcwzkhgcgohgxpw Hqgbwovmgdtgxwhqcjmaq
mkxgckgdhqpw Hqgcgwedowdwsjmyngwjrw zaweznx-hmctgb-ezkawrdkowoycgdxwjmh
 gqzkxwhqjogwhqzkaopw Jkwhqgwhd ngwzkwhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwcjjuwedowdwtzkx
jrwdwnjignbwscjstgcbw dotghwhqdhwqdxwdyyngowdkxwjcdkagowdkxwygdsqgowdkx
acdygowyzngxwmywzkwzh,weqzsqwedowumsqwcgxxgcwdkxwbgnnjegcwdkxwycghhzgc
hqdkwcgdnwjkgowzo,w mhwhqgbwedck'hwcgdnw gsdmogwbjmwsjmnxwoggweqgcg
yzgsgowqdxwajhwsqzyygxwjrrwdkxwoqjegxwhqgweqzhgwsqdnt,wjcweqdhgigcwzh
edo,wmkxgckgdhqp

Hqzowhd ngwqdxwdwsjigcwudxgwjmhwjrw gdmhzrmnwjznsnjhq,wezhqwdwcgxwdkx
 nmgwoycgdx-gdangwydzkhgxwjkwzh,wdkxwdwydzkhgxw jcxgcwdnnwdcjmkxpw Zh
sjugwdnnwhqgwedbwrcjuwYqzndxgnyqzd,whqgbwodzxpw Hqgcgwedowojugw jjto,
hjj,wyzngxwmywygcrgshnbwgfdsh,wjkwgdsqwsjckgcwjrwhqgwhd ngpw Jkgwedowd
 zawrduznbw z ngwrmnnwjrwyzshmcgopw JkgwedowYznaczu'owYcjacgoo,wd jmhwd
udkwhqdhwngrhwqzowrduznb,wzhwxzxk'hwodbweqbpw Zwcgdxwsjkozxgcd ngwzkwzh
kjewdkxwhqgkpw Hqgwohdhgugkhowedowzkhgcgohzka,w mhwhjmaqpw Dkjhqgcwedo
Rczgkxoqzy'owJrrgczka,wrmnnwjrw gdmhzrmnwohmrrwdkxwyjghcb;w mhwZwxzxk'h
cgdxwhqgwyjghcbpw DkjhqgcwedowQgkcbwSndb'owOyggsqgo,wdkxwdkjhqgcwedowXcp
Amkk'owRduznbwUgxzszkg,weqzsqwhjnxwbjmwdnnwd jmhweqdhwhjwxjwzrwdw jxb
edowozstwjcwxgdxpw Hqgcgwedowdwqbukw jjt,wdkxwdwnjhwjrwjhqgcw jjtopw Dkx
hqgcgwedowkzsgwoynzh- jhhjuwsqdzco,wdkxwygcrgshnbwojmkx,whjj--kjhw daagx
xjekwzkwhqgwuzxxngwdkxw mohgx,wnztgwdkwjnxw dotghp

Hqgbwqdxwyzshmcgowqmkawjkwhqgwednno--udzknbwEdoqzkahjkowdkxwNdrdbghhgo,
dkxw dhhngo,wdkxwQzaqndkxwUdcbo,wdkxwjkgwsdnngxw“Ozakzkawhqg
Xgsndcdhzjkp”wHqgcgwedowojugwhqdhwhqgbwsdnngxwscdbjko,weqzsqwjkgwjrwhqg
xdmaqhgcoweqzsqwedowxgdxwudxgwqgcwjekwognrweqgkwoqgwedowjknb
rzrhggkwbgdcowjnxpw HqgbwedowxzrrgcgkhwrcjuwdkbwyzshmcgowZwgigcwogg
 grjcg-- ndstgc,wujohnb,whqdkwzowsjuujkpw Jkgwedowdwejudkwzkwdwonzuw ndst
xcgoo,w gnhgxwoudnnwmkxgcwhqgwdcuyzho,wezhqw mnagownztgwdwsd  dagwzk
hqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwonggigo,wdkxwdwndcagw ndstwosjjy-oqjignw jkkghwezhq
dw ndstwigzn,wdkxweqzhgwonzuwdktngowscjoogxwd jmhwezhqw ndstwhdyg,wdkx
igcbweggw ndstwonzyygco,wnztgwdwsqzogn,wdkxwoqgwedowngdkzkawygkozigwjkwd
hju ohjkgwjkwqgcwczaqhwgn je,wmkxgcwdweggyzkaweznnje,wdkxwqgcwjhqgcwqdkx
qdkazkawxjekwqgcwozxgwqjnxzkawdweqzhgwqdkxtgcsqzgrwdkxwdwcghzsmng,
dkxwmkxgckgdhqwhqgwyzshmcgwzhwodzxw“OqdnnwZwKgigcwOggwHqggwUjcgwDndop”
w Dkjhqgcwjkgwedowdwbjmkawndxbwezhqwqgcwqdzcwdnnwsju gxwmywohcdzaqh
hjwhqgwhjywjrwqgcwqgdx,wdkxwtkjhhgxwhqgcgwzkwrcjkhwjrwdwsju wnztgwd
sqdzc- dst,wdkxwoqgwedowscbzkawzkhjwdwqdkxtgcsqzgrwdkxwqdxwdwxgdxw zcx
ndbzkawjkwzhow dstwzkwqgcwjhqgcwqdkxwezhqwzhowqggnowmy,wdkxwmkxgckgdhq
hqgwyzshmcgwzhwodzxw“ZwOqdnnwKgigcwQgdcwHqbwOegghwSqzccmywUjcgwDndop”
w Hqgcgwedowjkgweqgcgwdwbjmkawndxbwedowdhwdwezkxjewnjjtzkawmywdhwhqg
ujjk,wdkxwhgdcowcmkkzkawxjekwqgcwsqggto;wdkxwoqgwqdxwdkwjygkwnghhgcwzk
jkgwqdkxwezhqw ndstwogdnzkawedfwoqjezkawjkwjkgwgxagwjrwzh,wdkxwoqgwedo
udoqzkawdwnjstghwezhqwdwsqdzkwhjwzhwdadzkohwqgcwujmhq,wdkxwmkxgckgdhq
hqgwyzshmcgwzhwodzxw“DkxwDchwHqjmwAjkgwBgowHqjmwDchwAjkgwDndop”w Hqgog
edowdnnwkzsgwyzshmcgo,wZwcgstjk,w mhwZwxzxk'hwojugqjewogguwhjwhdtg
hjwhqgu,w gsdmogwzrwgigcwZwedowxjekwdwnzhhngwhqgbwdnedbowazigwugwhqg
rdk-hjxopw Gigcb jxbwedowojccbwoqgwxzgx,w gsdmogwoqgwqdxwndzxwjmhwdwnjh
ujcgwjrwhqgogwyzshmcgowhjwxj,wdkxwdw jxbwsjmnxwoggw bweqdhwoqgwqdxwxjkg
eqdhwhqgbwqdxwnjohpw  mhwZwcgstjkgxwhqdhwezhqwqgcwxzoyjozhzjkwoqgwedo
qdizkawdw ghhgcwhzugwzkwhqgwacdigbdcxpw Oqgwedowdhwejctwjkweqdhwhqgb
odzxwedowqgcwacgdhgohwyzshmcgweqgkwoqgwhjjtwozst,wdkxwgigcbwxdbwdkx
gigcbwkzaqhwzhwedowqgcwycdbgcwhjw gwdnnjegxwhjwnzigwhznnwoqgwajhwzh
xjkg,w mhwoqgwkgigcwajhwhqgwsqdksgpw Zhwedowdwyzshmcgwjrwdwbjmkawejudk
zkwdwnjkaweqzhgwajek,wohdkxzkawjkwhqgwcdznwjrwdw czxagwdnnwcgdxbwhjw.muy
jrr,wezhqwqgcwqdzcwdnnwxjekwqgcw dst,wdkxwnjjtzkawmywhjwhqgwujjk,wezhq
hqgwhgdcowcmkkzkawxjekwqgcwrdsg,wdkxwoqgwqdxwhejwdcuowrjnxgxwdscjoowqgc
 cgdoh,wdkxwhejwdcuowohcghsqgxwjmhwzkwrcjkh,wdkxwhejwujcgwcgdsqzkawmy
hjedcxowhqgwujjk--dkxwhqgwzxgdwedowhjwoggweqzsqwydzcwejmnxwnjjtw goh,
dkxwhqgkwoscdhsqwjmhwdnnwhqgwjhqgcwdcuo;w mh,wdowZwedowodbzka,woqgwxzgx
 grjcgwoqgwajhwqgcwuzkxwudxgwmy,wdkxwkjewhqgbwtgyhwhqzowyzshmcgwjigcwhqg
qgdxwjrwhqgw gxwzkwqgcwcjju,wdkxwgigcbwhzugwqgcw zchqxdbwsjugwhqgbwqmka
rnjegcowjkwzhpw Jhqgcwhzugowzhwedowqzxwezhqwdwnzhhngwsmchdzkpw Hqgwbjmka
ejudkwzkwhqgwyzshmcgwqdxwdwtzkxwjrwdwkzsgwoegghwrdsg,w mhwhqgcgwedowoj
udkbwdcuowzhwudxgwqgcwnjjtwhjjwoyzxgcb,woggugxwhjwugp

Hqzowbjmkawazcnwtgyhwdwoscdy- jjtweqgkwoqgwedowdnzig,wdkxwmogxwhjwydohg
j zhmdczgowdkxwdsszxgkhowdkxwsdogowjrwydhzgkhwomrrgczkawzkwzhwjmhwjrwhqg
Ycgo bhgczdkwJ ogcigc,wdkxweczhgwyjghcbwdrhgcwhqguwjmhwjrwqgcwjekwqgdxp
ZhwedowigcbwajjxwyjghcbpwHqzowzoweqdhwoqgwecjhgwd jmhwdw jbw bwhqgwkdug
jrwOhgyqgkwXjenzkaw jhowhqdhwrgnnwxjekwdwegnnwdkxwedowxcjekxgx:

JXGwHJwOHGYQGKwXJENZKAw JHO,wXGS'X

DkxwxzxwbjmkawOhgyqgkwozstgk,w w DkxwxzxwbjmkawOhgyqgkwxzg?wDkxwxzxwhqg
odxwqgdchowhqzstgk,w w Dkxwxzxwhqgwujmckgcowscb?

Kj;womsqwedowkjhwhqgwrdhgwjrw w BjmkawOhgyqgkwXjenzkaw jho;wHqjmaqwodx
qgdchowcjmkxwqzuwhqzstgkgx,w ww'Hedowkjhwrcjuwozstkgoo'woqjhop

Kjweqjjyzka-sjmaqwxzxwcdstwqzowrcdug,w w Kjcwugdongowxcgdcwezhqwoyjho;
Kjhwhqgogwzuydzcgxwhqgwodscgxwkdugw w JrwOhgyqgkwXjenzkaw jhop

Xgoyzogxwnjigwohcmstwkjhwezhqwejgw w Hqdhwqgdxwjrwsmcnbwtkjho,wKjc
ohjudsqwhcjm ngowndzxwqzuwnje,w w BjmkawOhgyqgkwXjenzkaw jhop

JwkjpwHqgkwnzohwezhqwhgdcrmnwgbg,w w EqznohwZwqzowrdhgwxjwhgnnpwQzowojmn
xzxwrcjuwhqzowsjnxwejcnxwrnbw w  bwrdnnzkawxjekwdwegnnp

Hqgbwajhwqzuwjmhwdkxwguyhzgxwqzu;w w Dndowzhwedowhjjwndhg;wQzowoyzczh
edowajkgwrjcwhjwoyjchwdnjrhw w Zkwhqgwcgdnuowjrwhqgwajjxwdkxwacgdhp

ZrwGuugnzkgwAcdkagcrjcxwsjmnxwudtgwyjghcbwnztgwhqdhw grjcgwoqgwedo
rjmchggk,whqgcgwdzk'hwkjwhgnnzkaweqdhwoqgwsjmnxwdwxjkgw bwdkxw bpw  mst
odzxwoqgwsjmnxwcdhhngwjrrwyjghcbwnztgwkjhqzkapw Oqgwxzxk'hwgigcwqdigwhj
ohjywhjwhqzktpw Qgwodzxwoqgwejmnxwondywxjekwdwnzkg,wdkxwzrwoqgwsjmnxk'h
rzkxwdkbhqzkawhjwcqbugwezhqwzhwejmnxw.mohwoscdhsqwzhwjmhwdkxwondywxjek
dkjhqgcwjkg,wdkxwajwdqgdxpwOqgwedck'hwydchzsmndc;woqgwsjmnxweczhgwd jmh
dkbhqzkawbjmwsqjjogwhjwazigwqgcwhjweczhgwd jmhw.mohwojwzhwedowodxrmnp
Gigcbwhzugwdwudkwxzgx,wjcwdwejudkwxzgx,wjcwdwsqznxwxzgx,woqgwejmnxw gwjk
qdkxwezhqwqgcw“hcz mhg”w grjcgwqgwedowsjnxpw Oqgwsdnngxwhqguwhcz mhgop
Hqgwkgzaq jcowodzxwzhwedowhqgwxjshjcwrzcoh,whqgkwGuugnzkg,whqgkwhqg
mkxgchdtgc--hqgwmkxgchdtgcwkgigcwajhwzkwdqgdxwjrwGuugnzkgw mhwjksg,wdkx
hqgkwoqgwqmkawrzcgwjkwdwcqbugwrjcwhqgwxgdxwygcojk'owkdug,weqzsqwedo
Eqzohngcpw Oqgwedck'hwgigcwhqgwodugwdrhgcwhqdh;woqgwkgigcwsjuyndzkgx,
 mhwoqgwtzkxgcwyzkgxwdedbwdkxwxzxwkjhwnzigwnjkapw Yjjcwhqzka,wudkb'owhqg
hzugwZwudxgwubognrwajwmywhjwhqgwnzhhngwcjjuwhqdhwmogxwhjw gwqgcowdkxwagh
jmhwqgcwyjjcwjnxwoscdy- jjtwdkxwcgdxwzkwzhweqgkwqgcwyzshmcgowqdxw ggk
daacdidhzkawugwdkxwZwqdxwojmcgxwjkwqgcwdwnzhhngpw Zwnztgxwdnnwhqdh
rduznb,wxgdxwjkgowdkxwdnn,wdkxwedck'hwajzkawhjwnghwdkbhqzkawsjugw gheggk
mopw YjjcwGuugnzkgwudxgwyjghcbwd jmhwdnnwhqgwxgdxwygjyngweqgkwoqgwedo
dnzig,wdkxwzhwxzxk'hwogguwczaqhwhqdhwhqgcgwedck'hwkj jxbwhjwudtgwojug
d jmhwqgcwkjewoqgwedowajkg;wojwZwhczgxwhjwoegdhwjmhwdwigcogwjcwhej
ubognr,w mhwZwsjmnxk'hwogguwhjwudtgwzhwajwojugqjepw HqgbwtgyhwGuugnzkg'o
cjjuwhczuwdkxwkzsg,wdkxwdnnwhqgwhqzkaowrzfgxwzkwzhw.mohwhqgwedbwoqg
nztgxwhjwqdigwhqguweqgkwoqgwedowdnzig,wdkxwkj jxbwgigcwongyhwhqgcgp
 Hqgwjnxwndxbwhjjtwsdcgwjrwhqgwcjjuwqgcognr,whqjmaqwhqgcgwedowyngkhb
jrwkzaagco,wdkxwoqgwogegxwhqgcgwdwajjxwxgdnwdkxwcgdxwqgcw z ngwhqgcg
ujohnbp

Egnn,wdowZwedowodbzkawd jmhwhqgwydcnjc,whqgcgwedow gdmhzrmnwsmchdzkowjk
hqgwezkxjeo:w eqzhg,wezhqwyzshmcgowydzkhgxwjkwhqguwjrwsdohngowezhqwizkgo
dnnwxjekwhqgwednno,wdkxwsdhhngwsjuzkawxjekwhjwxczktpw Hqgcgwedowdwnzhhng
jnxwyzdkj,whjj,whqdhwqdxwhzkwydkowzkwzh,wZwcgstjk,wdkxwkjhqzkawedowgigc
ojwnjignbwdowhjwqgdcwhqgwbjmkawndxzgowozkaw“HqgwNdohwNzktwzow cjtgk”
wdkxwyndbw“Hqgw dhhngwjrwYcdamg”wjkwzhpw Hqgwednnowjrwdnnwhqgwcjjuowedo
yndohgcgx,wdkxwujohwqdxwsdcyghowjkwhqgwrnjjco,wdkxwhqgweqjngwqjmogwedo
eqzhgedoqgxwjkwhqgwjmhozxgp

Zhwedowdwxjm ngwqjmog,wdkxwhqgw zawjygkwyndsgw ghezfhwhqguwedowcjjrgx
dkxwrnjjcgx,wdkxwojughzugowhqgwhd ngwedowoghwhqgcgwzkwhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqg
xdb,wdkxwzhwedowdwsjjn,wsjurjchd ngwyndsgpw Kjhqzkawsjmnxk'hw gw ghhgcp
 Dkxwedck'hwhqgwsjjtzkawajjx,wdkxw.mohw moqgnowjrwzhwhjj!




SQDYHGCwFIZZZp

SJNpw Acdkagcrjcxwedowdwagkhngudk,wbjmwoggpw Qgwedowdwagkhngudkwdnn
jigc;wdkxwojwedowqzowrduznbpw Qgwedowegnnw jck,wdowhqgwodbzkawzo,wdkx
hqdh'owejchqwdowumsqwzkwdwudkwdowzhwzowzkwdwqjcog,wojwhqgwEzxjewXjmando
odzx,wdkxwkj jxbwgigcwxgkzgxwhqdhwoqgwedowjrwhqgwrzcohwdczohjscdsb
zkwjmcwhjek;wdkxwydywqgwdnedbowodzxwzh,whjj,whqjmaqwqgwedck'hwkjwujcg
vmdnzhbwhqdkwdwumxsdhwqzuognrpw Sjnpw Acdkagcrjcxwedowigcbwhdnnwdkx
igcbwonzu,wdkxwqdxwdwxdctzoq-ydnbwsjuyngfzjk,wkjhwdwozakwjrwcgxwzkwzh
dkbeqgcgo;wqgwedowsngdkwoqdigxwgigcbwujckzkawdnnwjigcwqzowhqzkwrdsg,wdkx
qgwqdxwhqgwhqzkkgohwtzkxwjrwnzyo,wdkxwhqgwhqzkkgohwtzkxwjrwkjohczno,wdkx
dwqzaqwkjog,wdkxwqgdibwgbg cjeo,wdkxwhqgw ndstgohwtzkxwjrwgbgo,womktwoj
xggyw dstwhqdhwhqgbwoggugxwnztgwhqgbwedownjjtzkawjmhwjrwsdigckowdh
bjm,wdowbjmwudbwodbpw Qzowrjcgqgdxwedowqzaq,wdkxwqzowqdzcwedow ndstwdkx
ohcdzaqhwdkxwqmkawhjwqzowoqjmnxgcopwQzowqdkxowedownjkawdkxwhqzk,wdkx
gigcbwxdbwjrwqzownzrgwqgwymhwjkwdwsngdkwoqzchwdkxwdwrmnnwomzhwrcjuwqgdx
hjwrjjhwudxgwjmhwjrwnzkgkwojweqzhgwzhwqmchwbjmcwgbgowhjwnjjtwdhwzh;
dkxwjkwOmkxdbowqgwejcgwdw nmgwhdzn-sjdhwezhqw cdoow mhhjkowjkwzhpw Qg
sdcczgxwdwudqjadkbwsdkgwezhqwdwoznigcwqgdxwhjwzhpw Hqgcgwedck'hwkj
rczijnzoqkgoowd jmhwqzu,wkjhwdw zh,wdkxwqgwedck'hwgigcwnjmxpw Qgwedo
dowtzkxwdowqgwsjmnxw g--bjmwsjmnxwrggnwhqdh,wbjmwtkje,wdkxwojwbjmwqdx
sjkrzxgksgpw Ojughzugowqgwouzngx,wdkxwzhwedowajjxwhjwogg;w mhweqgkwqg
ohcdzaqhgkgxwqzuognrwmywnztgwdwnz gchb-yjng,wdkxwhqgwnzaqhkzkaw gamkwhj
rnzstgcwjmhwrcjuwmkxgcwqzowgbg cjeo,wbjmwedkhgxwhjwsnzu wdwhcggwrzcoh,
dkxwrzkxwjmhweqdhwhqgwudhhgcwedowdrhgcedcxopw Qgwxzxk'hwgigcwqdigwhj
hgnnwdkb jxbwhjwuzkxwhqgzcwudkkgco--gigcb jxbwedowdnedbowajjx-udkkgcgx
eqgcgwqgwedopw Gigcb jxbwnjigxwhjwqdigwqzuwdcjmkx,whjj;wqgwedowomkoqzkg
ujohwdnedbo--Zwugdkwqgwudxgwzhwogguwnztgwajjxwegdhqgcpw Eqgkwqgwhmckgx
zkhjwdwsnjmx dktwzhwedowdermnwxdctwrjcwqdnrwdwuzkmhg,wdkxwhqdhwedo
gkjmaq;whqgcgwejmnxk'hwkjhqzkawajwecjkawdadzkwrjcwdweggtp

Eqgkwqzuwdkxwhqgwjnxwndxbwsjugwxjekwzkwhqgwujckzkawdnnwhqgwrduznbwajh
mywjmhwjrwhqgzcwsqdzcowdkxwazigwhqguwajjx-xdb,wdkxwxzxk'hwoghwxjekwdadzk
hznnwhqgbwqdxwoghwxjekpw HqgkwHjuwdkxw j wegkhwhjwhqgwozxg jdcxweqgcg
hqgwxgsdkhgcwedo,wdkxwuzfgxwdwandoowjrw zhhgcowdkxwqdkxgxwzhwhjwqzu,wdkx
qgwqgnxwzhwzkwqzowqdkxwdkxwedzhgxwhznnwHju'owdkxw j 'owedowuzfgx,wdkx
hqgkwhqgbw jegxwdkxwodzx,w“Jmcwxmhbwhjwbjm,wozc,wdkxwudxdu;”wdkxw_hqgb_
 jegxwhqgwngdohw zhwzkwhqgwejcnxwdkxwodzxwhqdktwbjm,wdkxwojwhqgbwxcdkt,
dnnwhqcgg,wdkxw j wdkxwHjuwyjmcgxwdwoyjjkrmnwjrwedhgcwjkwhqgwomadcwdkx
hqgwuzhgwjrweqzotbwjcwdyyngw cdkxbwzkwhqgw jhhjuwjrwhqgzcwhmu ngco,wdkx
azigwzhwhjwugwdkxw mst,wdkxwegwxcdktwhjwhqgwjnxwygjyngwhjjp

 j wedowhqgwjnxgohwdkxwHjuwkgfh--hdnn,w gdmhzrmnwugkwezhqwigcbw cjdx
oqjmnxgcowdkxw cjekwrdsgo,wdkxwnjkaw ndstwqdzcwdkxw ndstwgbgopw Hqgb
xcgoogxwzkweqzhgwnzkgkwrcjuwqgdxwhjwrjjh,wnztgwhqgwjnxwagkhngudk,wdkx
ejcgw cjdxwYdkdudwqdhop

HqgkwhqgcgwedowUzoowSqdcnjhhg;woqgwedowhegkhb-rzig,wdkxwhdnnwdkxwycjmx
dkxwacdkx,w mhwdowajjxwdowoqgwsjmnxw gweqgkwoqgwedck'hwohzccgxwmy;w mh
eqgkwoqgwedowoqgwqdxwdwnjjtwhqdhwejmnxwudtgwbjmweznhwzkwbjmcwhcdsto,
nztgwqgcwrdhqgcpw Oqgwedow gdmhzrmnp

Ojwedowqgcwozohgc,wUzoowOjyqzd,w mhwzhwedowdwxzrrgcgkhwtzkxpw Oqgwedo
agkhngwdkxwoegghwnztgwdwxjig,wdkxwoqgwedowjknbwhegkhbp

Gdsqwygcojkwqdxwhqgzcwjekwkzaagcwhjwedzhwjkwhqgu-- mstwhjjpw Ubwkzaagc
qdxwdwujkohcjmowgdobwhzug,w gsdmogwZwedck'hwmogxwhjwqdizkawdkb jxbwxj
dkbhqzkawrjcwug,w mhw mst'owedowjkwhqgw.muywujohwjrwhqgwhzugp

Hqzowedowdnnwhqgcgwedowjrwhqgwrduznbwkje,w mhwhqgcgwmogxwhjw g
ujcg--hqcggwojko;whqgbwajhwtznngx;wdkxwGuugnzkgwhqdhwxzgxp

Hqgwjnxwagkhngudkwjekgxwdwnjhwjrwrdcuowdkxwjigcwdwqmkxcgxwkzaagcop
Ojughzugowdwohdstwjrwygjyngwejmnxwsjugwhqgcg,wqjcog dst,wrcjuwhgkwjc
rzrhggkwuzngwdcjmkx,wdkxwohdbwrzigwjcwozfwxdbo,wdkxwqdigwomsqw.mktghzkao
cjmkxwd jmhwdkxwjkwhqgwczigc,wdkxwxdksgowdkxwyzskzsowzkwhqgwejjxo
xdbhzugo,wdkxw dnnowdhwhqgwqjmogwkzaqhopw Hqgogwygjyngwedowujohnb
tzkrjntowjrwhqgwrduznbpw Hqgwugkw cjmaqhwhqgzcwamkowezhqwhqgupw Zhwedowd
qdkxojugwnjhwjrwvmdnzhb,wZwhgnnwbjmp

Hqgcgwedowdkjhqgcwsndkwjrwdczohjscdsbwdcjmkxwhqgcg--rzigwjcwozf
rduznzgo--ujohnbwjrwhqgwkdugwjrwOqgyqgcxojkpw Hqgbwedowdowqzaq-hjkgx
dkxwegnnw jckwdkxwczsqwdkxwacdkxwdowhqgwhcz gwjrwAcdkagcrjcxopw Hqg
OqgyqgcxojkowdkxwAcdkagcrjcxowmogxwhqgwodugwohgdu jdhwndkxzka,weqzsqwedo
d jmhwhejwuzngwd jigwjmcwqjmog;wojwojughzugoweqgkwZwegkhwmywhqgcgwezhqwd
njhwjrwjmcwrjntowZwmogxwhjwoggwdwnjhwjrwhqgwOqgyqgcxojkowhqgcgwjkwhqgzc
rzkgwqjcogop

Jkgwxdbw mstwdkxwugwedowdedbwjmhwzkwhqgwejjxowqmkhzka,wdkxwqgdcxwdwqjcog
sjuzkapw Egwedowscjoozkawhqgwcjdxpw  mstwodbo:

“Vmzst!w .muywrjcwhqgwejjxo!”

Egwxjkgwzh,wdkxwhqgkwyggygxwxjekwhqgwejjxowhqcjmaqwhqgwngdigopw Ycghhb
ojjkwdwoyngkxzxwbjmkawudkwsjugwadnnjyzkawxjekwhqgwcjdx,woghhzkawqzo
qjcogwgdobwdkxwnjjtzkawnztgwdwojnxzgcpw Qgwqdxwqzowamkwdscjoowqzo
yjuugnpw Zwqdxwoggkwqzuw grjcgpw ZhwedowbjmkawQdckgbwOqgyqgcxojkpw Z
qgdcxw mst'owamkwajwjrrwdhwubwgdc,wdkxwQdckgb'owqdhwhmu ngxwjrrwrcjuwqzo
qgdxpw Qgwacd  gxwqzowamkwdkxwcjxgwohcdzaqhwhjwhqgwyndsgweqgcgwegwedo
qzxpw  mhwegwxzxk'hwedzhpw Egwohdchgxwhqcjmaqwhqgwejjxowjkwdwcmkpw Hqg
ejjxowedck'hwhqzst,wojwZwnjjtgxwjigcwubwoqjmnxgcwhjwxjxagwhqgw mnngh,
dkxwhezsgwZwoggkwQdckgbwsjigcw mstwezhqwqzowamk;wdkxwhqgkwqgwcjxgwdedb
hqgwedbwqgwsjug--hjwaghwqzowqdh,wZwcgstjk,w mhwZwsjmnxk'hwoggpw Egwkgigc
ohjyygxwcmkkzkawhznnwegwajhwqjugpw Hqgwjnxwagkhngudk'owgbgow ndlgxwd
uzkmhg--'hedowyngdomcg,wudzknb,wZw.mxagx--hqgkwqzowrdsgwojchwjrwoujjhqgx
xjek,wdkxwqgwodbo,wtzkxwjrwagkhng:

“Zwxjk'hwnztgwhqdhwoqjjhzkawrcjuw gqzkxwdw moqpw Eqbwxzxk'hwbjmwohgy
zkhjwhqgwcjdx,wubw jb?”

“HqgwOqgyqgcxojkowxjk'h,wrdhqgcpw Hqgbwdnedbowhdtgwdxidkhdagp”

UzoowSqdcnjhhgwoqgwqgnxwqgcwqgdxwmywnztgwdwvmggkweqzngw mstwedowhgnnzka
qzowhdng,wdkxwqgcwkjohcznowoycgdxwdkxwqgcwgbgowokdyygxpw Hqgwhejwbjmka
ugkwnjjtgxwxdct,w mhwkgigcwodzxwkjhqzkapw UzoowOjyqzdwoqgwhmckgxwydng,
 mhwhqgwsjnjcwsjugw dstweqgkwoqgwrjmkxwhqgwudkwedck'hwqmchp

OjjkwdowZwsjmnxwaghw mstwxjekw bwhqgwsjck-scz owmkxgcwhqgwhcggow b
jmcognigo,wZwodbo:

“Xzxwbjmwedkhwhjwtznnwqzu,w mst?”

“Egnn,wZw ghwZwxzxp”

“Eqdhwxzxwqgwxjwhjwbjm?”

“Qzu?w Qgwkgigcwxjkgwkjhqzkawhjwugp”

“Egnn,whqgk,weqdhwxzxwbjmwedkhwhjwtznnwqzuwrjc?”

“Eqb,wkjhqzka--jknbwzh'owjkwdssjmkhwjrwhqgwrgmxp”

“Eqdh'owdwrgmx?”

“Eqb,weqgcgwedowbjmwcdzogx?w Xjk'hwbjmwtkjeweqdhwdwrgmxwzo?”

“Kgigcwqgdcxwjrwzhw grjcg--hgnnwugwd jmhwzhp”

“Egnn,”wodbow mst,w“dwrgmxwzowhqzowedb:w Dwudkwqdowdwvmdccgnwezhq
dkjhqgcwudk,wdkxwtznnowqzu;whqgkwhqdhwjhqgcwudk'ow cjhqgcwtznnow_qzu_;
hqgkwhqgwjhqgcw cjhqgco,wjkw jhqwozxgo,wajgowrjcwjkgwdkjhqgc;whqgkwhqg
_sjmozko_wsqzywzk--dkxw bwdkxw bwgigcb jxb'owtznngxwjrr,wdkxwhqgcgwdzk'h
kjwujcgwrgmxpw  mhwzh'owtzkxwjrwonje,wdkxwhdtgowdwnjkawhzugp”

“Qdowhqzowjkgw ggkwajzkawjkwnjka,w mst?”

“Egnn,wZwoqjmnxw_cgstjk_!w Zhwohdchgxwhqzchbwbgdcwdaj,wjcwoju'gcowdnjka
hqgcgpw Hqgcgwedowhcjm ngw' jmhwojughqzka,wdkxwhqgkwdwndeomzhwhjwoghhng
zh;wdkxwhqgwomzhwegkhwdazkwjkgwjrwhqgwugk,wdkxwojwqgwmywdkxwoqjhwhqg
udkwhqdhwejkwhqgwomzh--eqzsqwqgwejmnxwkdhmcdnnbwxj,wjrwsjmcogpw Dkb jxb
ejmnxp”

“Eqdhwedowhqgwhcjm ngwd jmh,w mst?--ndkx?”

“Zwcgstjkwudb g--Zwxjk'hwtkjep”

“Egnn,weqjwxjkgwhqgwoqjjhzka?w EdowzhwdwAcdkagcrjcxwjcwdwOqgyqgcxojk?”

“Ndeo,wqjewxjwZwtkje?w Zhwedowojwnjkawdajp”

“Xjk'hwdkb jxbwtkje?”

“Jq,wbgo,wydwtkjeo,wZwcgstjk,wdkxwojugwjrwhqgwjhqgcwjnxwygjyng;w mhwhqgb
xjk'hwtkjewkjeweqdhwhqgwcjewedowd jmhwzkwhqgwrzcohwyndsgp”

“Qdowhqgcgw ggkwudkbwtznngx,w mst?”

“Bgo;wczaqhwoudchwsqdksgwjrwrmkgcdnopw  mhwhqgbwxjk'hwdnedbowtznnpw Yd'o
ajhwdwrgew mstoqjhwzkwqzu;w mhwqgwxjk'hwuzkxwzhw'smlwqgwxjk'hwegzaq
umsq,wdkbedbpw  j 'ow ggkwsdcigxwmywojugwezhqwdw jezg,wdkxwHju'ow ggk
qmchwjksgwjcwhezsgp”

“Qdowdkb jxbw ggkwtznngxwhqzowbgdc,w mst?”

“Bgo;wegwajhwjkgwdkxwhqgbwajhwjkgpww' jmhwhqcggwujkhqowdajwubwsjmozk
 mx,wrjmchggkwbgdcwjnx,wedowczxzkawhqcjmaqwhqgwejjxowjkwh'jhqgcwozxg
jrwhqgwczigc,wdkxwxzxk'hwqdigwkjwegdyjkwezhqwqzu,weqzsqwedow ndug'
rjjnzoqkgoo,wdkxwzkwdwnjkgojugwyndsgwqgwqgdcowdwqjcogwd-sjuzkaw gqzkx
qzu,wdkxwoggowjnxw dnxbwOqgyqgcxojkwd-nzktzk'wdrhgcwqzuwezhqwqzowamkwzk
qzowqdkxwdkxwqzoweqzhgwqdzcwd-rnbzkawzkwhqgwezkx;wdkxw'ohgdxwjrw.muyzka
jrrwdkxwhdtzkawhjwhqgw cmoq,w mxw'njegxwqgwsjmnxwjmh-cmkwqzu;wojwhqgb
qdxwzh,wkzywdkxwhmst,wrjcwrzigwuzngwjcwujcg,whqgwjnxwudkwd-adzkzkawdnn
hqgwhzug;wojwdhwndohw mxwoggkwzhwedck'hwdkbwmog,wojwqgwohjyygxwdkxwrdsgx
dcjmkxwojwdowhjwqdigwhqgw mnnghwqjngowzkwrcjkh,wbjmwtkje,wdkxwhqgwjnx
udkwqgwcjxgwmywdkxwoqjhwqzuwxjekpw  mhwqgwxzxk'hwazhwumsqwsqdksgwhj
gk.jbwqzownmst,wrjcwzkozxgwjrwdweggtwjmcwrjntowndzxw_qzu_wjmhp”

“Zwcgstjkwhqdhwjnxwudkwedowdwsjedcx,w mstp”

“Zwcgstjkwqgw_edck'h_wdwsjedcxpw Kjhw bwdw ndug'wozaqhpw Hqgcgwdzk'hwd
sjedcxwdujkaohwhqguwOqgyqgcxojko--kjhwdwjkgpw Dkxwhqgcgwdzk'hwkjwsjedcxo
dujkaohwhqgwAcdkagcrjcxowgzhqgcpw Eqb,whqdhwjnxwudkwtgy'wmywqzowgkxwzkwd
rzaqhwjkgwxdbwrjcwqdnrwdkwqjmcwdadzkohwhqcggwAcdkagcrjcxo,wdkxwsjug
jmhwezkkgcpw Hqgbwedowdnnwd-qjcog dst;wqgwnzhwjrrwjrwqzowqjcogwdkxwajh
 gqzkxwdwnzhhngwejjxyzng,wdkxwtgy'wqzowqjcogw grjcgwqzuwhjwohjywhqg
 mnngho;w mhwhqgwAcdkagcrjcxowohdbgxwjkwhqgzcwqjcogowdkxwsdygcgxwdcjmkx
hqgwjnxwudk,wdkxwygyygcgxwdedbwdhwqzu,wdkxwqgwygyygcgxwdedbwdhwhqgup
 Qzuwdkxwqzowqjcogw jhqwegkhwqjugwycghhbwngdtbwdkxwsczyyngx,w mhwhqg
Acdkagcrjcxowqdxwhjw gw_rghsqgx_wqjug--dkxwjkgwjrw'guwedowxgdx,wdkx
dkjhqgcwxzgxwhqgwkgfhwxdbpw Kj,wozc;wzrwdw jxb'owjmhwqmkhzkawrjcwsjedcxo
qgwxjk'hwedkhwhjwrjjnwdedbwdkbwhzugwdujkaohwhqguwOqgyqgcxojko,w gsml
hqgbwxjk'hw cggxwdkbwjrwhqdhw_tzkx_p”

KgfhwOmkxdbwegwdnnwegkhwhjwsqmcsq,wd jmhwhqcggwuzng,wgigcb jxb
d-qjcog dstpwHqgwugkwhjjtwhqgzcwamkowdnjka,wojwxzxw mst,wdkxwtgyh
hqguw gheggkwhqgzcwtkggowjcwohjjxwhqguwqdkxbwdadzkohwhqgwednnpw Hqg
Oqgyqgcxojkowxjkgwhqgwodugpw Zhwedowycghhbwjckgcbwycgdsqzka--dnnwd jmh
 cjhqgcnbwnjig,wdkxwomsq-nztgwhzcgojugkgoo;w mhwgigcb jxbwodzxwzhwedo
dwajjxwogcujk,wdkxwhqgbwdnnwhdntgxwzhwjigcwajzkawqjug,wdkxwqdxwomsq
dwyjegcrmnwnjhwhjwodbwd jmhwrdzhqwdkxwajjxwejctowdkxwrcggwacdsgwdkx
ycgrjcgjcxgohzkdhzjk,wdkxwZwxjk'hwtkjeweqdhwdnn,whqdhwzhwxzxwogguwhjwug
hjw gwjkgwjrwhqgwcjmaqgohwOmkxdbowZwqdxwcmkwdscjoowbghp

D jmhwdkwqjmcwdrhgcwxzkkgcwgigcb jxbwedowxjlzkawdcjmkx,wojugwzkwhqgzc
sqdzcowdkxwojugwzkwhqgzcwcjjuo,wdkxwzhwajhwhjw gwycghhbwxmnnpw  mstwdkx
dwxjawedowohcghsqgxwjmhwjkwhqgwacdoowzkwhqgwomkwojmkxwdonggypw Zwegkhwmy
hjwjmcwcjju,wdkxw.mxagxwZwejmnxwhdtgwdwkdywubognrpw Zwrjmkxwhqdhwoeggh
UzoowOjyqzdwohdkxzkawzkwqgcwxjjc,weqzsqwedowkgfhwhjwjmco,wdkxwoqgwhjjt
ugwzkwqgcwcjjuwdkxwoqmhwhqgwxjjcwigcbwojrh,wdkxwdotgxwugwzrwZwnztgxwqgc,
dkxwZwodzxwZwxzx;wdkxwoqgwdotgxwugwzrwZwejmnxwxjwojughqzkawrjcwqgcwdkx
kjhwhgnnwdkb jxb,wdkxwZwodzxwZwejmnxpw Hqgkwoqgwodzxwoqg'xwrjcajhwqgc
Hgohdugkh,wdkxwngrhwzhwzkwhqgwogdhwdhwsqmcsqw gheggkwhejwjhqgcw jjto,
dkxwejmnxwZwonzywjmhwvmzghwdkxwajwhqgcgwdkxwrghsqwzhwhjwqgc,wdkxwkjhwodb
kjhqzkawhjwkj jxbpw ZwodzxwZwejmnxpwOjwZwonzxwjmhwdkxwonzyygxwjrrwmywhqg
cjdx,wdkxwhqgcgwedck'hwdkb jxbwdhwhqgwsqmcsq,wgfsgyhwudb gwdwqjawjcwhej,
rjcwhqgcgwedck'hwdkbwnjstwjkwhqgwxjjc,wdkxwqjaownztgowdwymksqgjkwrnjjc
zkwomuugc-hzugw gsdmogwzh'owsjjnpw Zrwbjmwkjhzsg,wujohwrjntowxjk'hwajwhj
sqmcsqwjknbweqgkwhqgb'igwajhwhj;w mhwdwqjawzowxzrrgcgkhp

OdbowZwhjwubognr,wojughqzka'owmy;wzhwdzk'hwkdhmcdnwrjcwdwazcnwhjw gwzk
omsqwdwoegdhwd jmhwdwHgohdugkhpw OjwZwazigwzhwdwoqdtg,wdkxwjmhwxcjyowd
nzhhngwyzgsgwjrwydygcwezhqw“QDNR-YDOHwHEJ”wecjhgwjkwzhwezhqwdwygksznpw Z
cdkodstgxwzh,w mhwsjmnxk'hwrzkxwdkbhqzkawgnogpw Zwsjmnxk'hwudtgwdkbhqzka
jmhwjrwhqdh,wojwZwymhwhqgwydygcwzkwhqgw jjtwdadzk,wdkxweqgkwZwajhwqjug
dkxwmyohdzcowhqgcgwedowUzoowOjyqzdwzkwqgcwxjjcwedzhzkawrjcwugpw Oqg
ymnngxwugwzkwdkxwoqmhwhqgwxjjc;whqgkwoqgwnjjtgxwzkwhqgwHgohdugkhwhznn
oqgwrjmkxwhqgwydygc,wdkxwdowojjkwdowoqgwcgdxwzhwoqgwnjjtgxwandx;wdkx
 grjcgwdw jxbwsjmnxwhqzktwoqgwacd  gxwugwdkxwazigwugwdwovmgglg,wdkx
odzxwZwedowhqgw gohw jbwzkwhqgwejcnx,wdkxwkjhwhjwhgnnwdkb jxbpw Oqgwedo
uzaqhbwcgxwzkwhqgwrdsgwrjcwdwuzkmhg,wdkxwqgcwgbgownzaqhgxwmy,wdkxwzh
udxgwqgcwyjegcrmnwycghhbpw Zwedowdwajjxwxgdnwdohjkzoqgx,w mhweqgkwZwajh
ubw cgdhqwZwdotgxwqgcweqdhwhqgwydygcwedowd jmh,wdkxwoqgwdotgxwugwzrwZ
qdxwcgdxwzh,wdkxwZwodzxwkj,wdkxwoqgwdotgxwugwzrwZwsjmnxwcgdxweczhzka,
dkxwZwhjnxwqgcw“kj,wjknbwsjdcog-qdkx,”wdkxwhqgkwoqgwodzxwhqgwydygc
edck'hwdkbhqzkaw mhwdw jjt-udctwhjwtggywqgcwyndsg,wdkxwZwuzaqhwajwdkx
yndbwkjep

Zwegkhwjrrwxjekwhjwhqgwczigc,wohmxbzkawjigcwhqzowhqzka,wdkxwycghhbwojjk
Zwkjhzsgxwhqdhwubwkzaagcwedowrjnnjezkawdnjkaw gqzkxpw Eqgkwegwedowjmh
jrwozaqhwjrwhqgwqjmogwqgwnjjtgxw dstwdkxwdcjmkxwdwogsjkx,wdkxwhqgkwsjugo
d-cmkkzka,wdkxwodbo:

“Udcow.deag,wzrwbjm'nnwsjugwxjekwzkhjwxgwoeduywZ'nnwoqjewbjmwdweqjng
ohdstwj'wedhgc-ujssdozkop”

HqzktowZ,whqdh'owuzaqhbwsmczjmo;wqgwodzxwhqdhwbgohgcxdbpw Qgwjmaqhgc
tkjewdw jxbwxjk'hwnjigwedhgc-ujssdozkowgkjmaqwhjwajwdcjmkxwqmkhzkawrjc
hqgupwEqdhwzowqgwmywhj,wdkbedb?w OjwZwodbo:

“Dnnwczaqh;whcjhwdqgdxp”

Zwrjnnjegxwdwqdnrwdwuzng;whqgkwqgwohcmstwjmhwjigcwhqgwoeduy,wdkxwedxgx
dktngwxggywdowumsqwdowdkjhqgcwqdnr-uzngpw Egwsjugwhjwdwnzhhngwrndhwyzgsg
jrwndkxweqzsqwedowxcbwdkxwigcbwhqzstwezhqwhcggowdkxw moqgowdkxwizkgo,
dkxwqgwodbo:

“Bjmwoqjigwczaqhwzkwxdqw.zohwdwrgewohgyo,wUdcow.deag;wxdq'oweqdqwxgbwzop
Z'owoggxw'uw grj';wZwxjk'hwt'bgcwhjwoggw'guwkjwuj'p”

Hqgkwqgwonjyygxwczaqhwdnjkawdkxwegkhwdedb,wdkxwycghhbwojjkwhqgwhcggowqzx
qzupw Zwyjtgxwzkhjwhqgwyndsgwd-edbowdkxwsjugwhjwdwnzhhngwjygkwydhsq
dow zawdowdw gxcjjuwdnnwqmkawdcjmkxwezhqwizkgo,wdkxwrjmkxwdwudkwndbzka
hqgcgwdonggy--dkx,w bw.zkao,wzhwedowubwjnxw.zu!

Zwedtgxwqzuwmy,wdkxwZwcgstjkgxwzhwedowajzkawhjw gwdwacdkxwomcyczogwhj
qzuwhjwoggwugwdadzk,w mhwzhwedck'hpw Qgwkgdcnbwsczgxwqgwedowojwandx,w mh
qgwedck'hwomcyczogxpw Odzxwqgwoemuwdnjkaw gqzkxwugwhqdhwkzaqh,wdkxwqgdcx
ugwbgnnwgigcbwhzug,w mhwxdok'hwdkoegc,w gsdmogwqgwxzxk'hwedkhwkj jxbwhj
yzstw_qzu_wmywdkxwhdtgwqzuwzkhjwondigcbwdadzkpw Odbowqg:

“Zwajhwqmchwdwnzhhng,wgkwsjmnxk'hwoezuwrdo',wojwZwemlwdwsjkozxd ngwedbo
 gqzkgwbjmwhjedcxowxgwndo';weqgkwbjmwndkxgxwZwcgst'kgxwZwsjmnxwtghsq
mywezxwbjmwjkwxgwndk'w'xjmhwqdizk'whjwoqjmhwdhwbjm,w mhweqgkwZwoggwxdh
qjmogwZw gazkwhjwajwonjepw Zw'mlwjrrwhjjwrmcwhjwqgdcweqdhwxgbwodbwhj
bjm--Zwemlw'rcdzxwj'wxgwxjao;w mhweqgkwzhw'mlwdnnwvmzghwdazkwZwtkjegx
bjm'owzkwxgwqjmog,wojwZwohcmstwjmhwrjcwxgwejjxowhjwedzhwrjcwxdbpw Gdcnb
zkwxgwudekzk'wojugwgcwxgwkzaagcowsjugwdnjka,waebkgwhjwxgwrzgnxo,wgkwxgb
hmtwugwgkwoqjegxwugwxzowyndsg,weqdqwxgwxjaowsdk'hwhcdstwugwjkwdssjmkho
j'wxgwedhgc,wgkwxgbw czkaowugwhcmstwhjwgdhwgigcbwkzaqh,wgkwhgnnowugwqje
bjm'owd-azhh'kwdnjkap”

“Eqbwxzxk'hwbjmwhgnnwubw.dstwhjwrghsqwugwqgcgwojjkgc,w.zu?”

“Egnn,w'hedck'hwkjwmogwhjw'ohmc wbjm,wQmst,whgnnwegwsjmnxwxjwomurk-- mh
eg'owdnnwczaqhwkjepw Zw gkwd- mbzk'wyjhowgkwydkowgkwizhhngo,wdowZwajhwd
sqdkoh,wgkwd-ydhsqzk'wmywxgwcdr'wkzaqhoweqgk--”

“_Eqdh_wcdrh,w.zu?”

“Jmcwjngwcdr'p”

“Bjmwugdkwhjwodbwjmcwjnxwcdrhwedck'hwoudoqgxwdnnwhjwrnzkxgco?”

“Kj,woqgwedck'hpw Oqgwedowhjcgwmywdwajjxwxgdn--jkgwgk'wjrwqgcwedo;w mh
xgbwedck'hwkjwacgdhwqdcuwxjkg,wjk'bwjmcwhcdyowedowujo'wdnnwnjo'pw Grweg
qdxk'wxzig'wojwxggywgkwoemuwojwrmcwmkxgcwedhgc,wgkwxgwkzaqhwqdxk'w gk
ojwxdct,wgkwegwedck'hwojwot'bgcx,wgkw gkwozsqwymktzk-qgdxo,wdowxgwodbzk'
zo,weg'xwdwoggxwxgwcdr'pw  mhwzh'ow.zo'wdowegnnwegwxzxk'h,w'tdogwkje
oqg'owdnnwrzfgxwmywdazkwujo'wdowajjxwdowkge,wgkweg'owajhwdwkgewnjhwj'
ohmrr,wzkwxgwyndsgwj'weqdhw'mlwnjo'p”

“Eqb,wqjewxzxwbjmwaghwqjnxwjrwhqgwcdrhwdadzk,w.zu--xzxwbjmwsdhsqwqgc?”

“QjewZwaebkgwhjwtghsqwqgcwgkwZwjmhwzkwxgwejjxo?w Kj;wojugwgcwxgwkzaagco
rjmk'wqgcwtghsqgxwjkwdwokdawdnjkawqgdqwzkwxgw gk',wgkwxgbwqzxwqgcwzkwd
sczstw'ujkaohwxgweznnjeo,wgkwxgbwemlwojwumsqw.dezk'w' jmhweqzsqwmkw'mu
oqgw 'njkawhjwxgwujo'wxdhwZwsjugwhjwqgdqw' jmhwzhwyjjhbwojjk,wojwZwmyo
gkwoghhngowxgwhcjm ngw bwhgnnzk'w'muwoqgwxjk'hw 'njkawhjwkjkgwmiwmu,w mh
hjwbjmwgkwug;wgkwZwdohw'uwzrwxgbwaebkgwhjwacd wdwbjmkaweqzhgwagknudk'o
ycjydhb,wgkwazhwdwqzx'kwrjcwzh?w XgkwZwazkw'uwhgkwsgkhowdyzgsg,wgkwxgb
'mlwuzaqhbwegnnwodhzorzgx,wgkwezoqhwojugwuj'wcdr'ow'mxwsjugwdnjkawgk
udtgw'uwczsqwdazkpwXgb'owuzaqhbwajjxwhjwug,wxgogwkzaagcowzo,wgkweqdhgigc
Zwedkhow'uwhjwxjwrmcwugwZwxjdk'wqdigwhjwdohw'uwhezsg,wqjkgbpw Xdhw.dst'o
dwajjxwkzaagc,wgkwyjjhbwoudchp”

“Bgo,wqgwzopw Qgwdzk'hwgigcwhjnxwugwbjmwedowqgcg;whjnxwugwhjwsjug,wdkx
qg'xwoqjewugwdwnjhwjrwedhgc-ujssdozkopw Zrwdkbhqzkawqdyygkow_qg_wdzk'h
uzfgxwmywzkwzhpw Qgwsdkwodbwqgwkgigcwoggkwmowhjaghqgc,wdkxwzhw'nnw gwhqg
hcmhqp”

Zwxjk'hwedkhwhjwhdntwumsqwd jmhwhqgwkgfhwxdbpw ZwcgstjkwZ'nnwsmhwzh
ycghhbwoqjchpw Zwedtgxwmywd jmhwxdek,wdkxwedowd-ajzkawhjwhmckwjigcwdkx
ajwhjwonggywdadzkweqgkwZwkjhzsgxwqjewohznnwzhwedo--xzxk'hwogguwhjw g
dkb jxbwohzcczkapw Hqdhwedck'hwmomdnpw KgfhwZwkjhzsgxwhqdhw mstwedo
mywdkxwajkgpwEgnn,wZwaghowmy,wd-ejkxgczka,wdkxwajgowxjekwohdzco--kj jxb
dcjmkx;wgigcbhqzkawdowohznnwdowdwujmogpw .mohwhqgwodugwjmhozxgpw Hqzkto
Z,weqdhwxjgowzhwugdk?w Xjekw bwhqgwejjx-yzngwZwsjugowdscjoowubw.dst,wdkx
odbo:

“Eqdh'owzhwdnnwd jmh?”

Odbowqg:

“Xjk'hwbjmwtkje,wUdcow.deag?”

“Kj,”wodbowZ,w“Zwxjk'hp”

“Egnn,wxgk,wUzoowOjyqzd'owcmkwjrr!w'xggxwoqgwqdopw Oqgwcmkwjrrwzkwxg
kzaqhwojugwhzug--kj jxbwxjk'hwtkjew.zo'weqgk;wcmkwjrrwhjwaghwudcczgx
hjwxdhwbjmkawQdckgbwOqgyqgcxojk,wbjmwtkje--ngdohedbo,wojwxgbw'oygspw Xg
rdu nbwrjmk'wzhwjmhw' jmhwqdnrwdkwqjmcwdaj--udb gwdwnzhhngwuj'--gk'wZ
_hgnn_wbjmwxgbwedck'hwkjwhzugwnjo'pw Ozsqwdkjhqgcwqmccbzk'wmywamko
gkwqjoogow_bjm_wkgigcwogg!w Xgwejugkwrjntowqdowajkgwrjcwhjwohzcwmywxg
cgndhzjko,wgkwjngwUdcowOdmnwgkwxgw jbowhmstwxgbwamkowgkwcjxgwmywxg
czigcwcjdxwrjcwhjwhcbwhjwtghsqwxdhwbjmkawudkwgkwtznnwqzuw'rj'wqgwtzk
azhwdscjohwxgwczigcwezxwUzoowOjyqzdpw Zwcgst'kwxgb'owaebkgwhjw gwuzaqhb
cjmaqwhzugop”

“ mstwegkhwjrrw'hqjmhwedtzkawugwmyp”

“Egnn,wZwcgst'kwqgw_xzx_!w Xgbwedck'hwaebkgwhjwuzfwbjmwmywzkwzhp
 Udcow mstwqgwnjdxgxwmywqzowamkwgkw'njegxwqg'owaebkgwhjwrghsqwqjugwd
Oqgyqgcxojkwjcw mohpwEgnn,wxgb'nnw gwyngkhbwmkw'uwxdq,wZwcgst'k,wgkwbjm
 ghwbjmwqg'nnwrghsqwjkgwgrwqgwazhowdwsqdkohp”

ZwhjjtwmywhqgwczigcwcjdxwdowqdcxwdowZwsjmnxwymhpw  bwdkxw bwZw gazkwhj
qgdcwamkowdwajjxwedbowjrrpw EqgkwZwsjugwzkwozaqhwjrwhqgwnjawohjcgwdkx
hqgwejjxyzngweqgcgwhqgwohgdu jdhowndkxowZwejctgxwdnjkawmkxgcwhqgwhcggo
dkxw cmoqwhznnwZwajhwhjwdwajjxwyndsg,wdkxwhqgkwZwsnmu wmywzkhjwhqg
rjctowjrwdwsjhhjkejjxwhqdhwedowjmhwjrwcgdsq,wdkxwedhsqgxpw Hqgcgwedowd
ejjx-cdktwrjmcwrjjhwqzaqwdwnzhhngwedbowzkwrcjkhwjrwhqgwhcgg,wdkxwrzcohwZ
edowajzkawhjwqzxgw gqzkxwhqdh;w mhwudb gwzhwedownmstzgcwZwxzxk'hp

Hqgcgwedowrjmcwjcwrzigwugkwsdijchzkawdcjmkxwjkwhqgzcwqjcogowzkwhqgwjygk
yndsgw grjcgwhqgwnjawohjcg,wsmoozkawdkxwbgnnzka,wdkxwhcbzkawhjwaghwdh
dwsjmyngwjrwbjmkawsqdyowhqdhwedow gqzkxwhqgwejjx-cdktwdnjkaozxgwjrwhqg
ohgdu jdhwndkxzka;w mhwhqgbwsjmnxk'hwsjugwzhpw Gigcbwhzugwjkgwjrwhqgu
oqjegxwqzuognrwjkwhqgwczigcwozxgwjrwhqgwejjxyzngwqgwajhwoqjhwdhpw Hqg
hejw jbowedowovmdhhzkaw dstwhjw dstw gqzkxwhqgwyzng,wojwhqgbwsjmnxwedhsq
 jhqwedbop

 bwdkxw bwhqgwugkwohjyygxwsdijchzkawdcjmkxwdkxwbgnnzkapw Hqgbwohdchgx
czxzkawhjedcxowhqgwohjcg;whqgkwmywaghowjkgwjrwhqgw jbo,wxcdeowdwohgdxb
 gdxwjigcwhqgwejjx-cdkt,wdkxwxcjyowjkgwjrwhqguwjmhwjrwqzowodxxngpw Dnn
hqgwugkw.muygxwjrrwjrwhqgzcwqjcogowdkxwacd  gxwhqgwqmchwjkgwdkxwohdchgx
hjwsdccbwqzuwhjwhqgwohjcg;wdkxwhqdhwuzkmhgwhqgwhejw jbowohdchgxwjkwhqg
cmkpw HqgbwajhwqdnrwedbwhjwhqgwhcggwZwedowzkw grjcgwhqgwugkwkjhzsgxp
Hqgkwhqgwugkwoggwhqgu,wdkxw.muygxwjkwhqgzcwqjcogowdkxwhjjtwjmhwdrhgc
hqgupw Hqgbwadzkgxwjkwhqgw jbo,w mhwzhwxzxk'hwxjwkjwajjx,whqgw jbowqdx
hjjwajjxwdwohdch;whqgbwajhwhjwhqgwejjxyzngwhqdhwedowzkwrcjkhwjrwubwhcgg,
dkxwonzyygxwzkw gqzkxwzh,wdkxwojwhqgbwqdxwhqgw mnagwjkwhqgwugkwdadzkp
Jkgwjrwhqgw jbowedow mst,wdkxwhqgwjhqgcwedowdwonzuwbjmkawsqdywd jmh
kzkghggkwbgdcowjnxp

Hqgwugkwczyygxwdcjmkxwdeqzng,wdkxwhqgkwcjxgwdedbpw Dowojjkwdowhqgbwedo
jmhwjrwozaqhwZwomkawjmhwhjw mstwdkxwhjnxwqzupw Qgwxzxk'hwtkjeweqdh
hjwudtgwjrwubwijzsgwsjuzkawjmhwjrwhqgwhcggwdhwrzcohpw Qgwedowdermn
omcyczogxpw Qgwhjnxwugwhjwedhsqwjmhwoqdcywdkxwnghwqzuwtkjeweqgkwhqg
ugkwsjugwzkwozaqhwdadzk;wodzxwhqgbwedowmywhjwojugwxgiznugkhwjc
jhqgc--ejmnxk'hw gwajkgwnjkapw ZwezoqgxwZwedowjmhwjrwhqdhwhcgg,w mhwZ
xdok'hwsjugwxjekpw  mstw gamkwhjwscbwdkxwczy,wdkxw'njegxwhqdhwqzuwdkx
qzowsjmozkw.jgw(hqdhwedowhqgwjhqgcwbjmkawsqdy)wejmnxwudtgwmywrjcwhqzo
xdbwbghpw Qgwodzxwqzowrdhqgcwdkxwqzowhejw cjhqgcowedowtznngx,wdkxwhej
jcwhqcggwjrwhqgwgkgubpw OdzxwhqgwOqgyqgcxojkowndzxwrjcwhqguwzk
du moqpw  mstwodzxwqzowrdhqgcwdkxw cjhqgcowjmaqhwhjwedzhgxwrjcwhqgzc
cgndhzjko--hqgwOqgyqgcxojkowedowhjjwohcjkawrjcwhqgupw Zwdotgxwqzuweqdh
edow gsjugwjrwbjmkawQdckgbwdkxwUzoowOjyqzdpw Qgwodzxwhqgb'xwajhwdscjoo
hqgwczigcwdkxwedowodrgpw Zwedowandxwjrwhqdh;w mhwhqgwedbw mstwxzxwhdtg
jkw gsdmogwqgwxzxk'hwudkdagwhjwtznnwQdckgbwhqdhwxdbwqgwoqjhwdhwqzu--Z
qdzk'hwgigcwqgdcxwdkbhqzkawnztgwzhp

Dnnwjrwdwomxxgk,w dka!w dka!w dka!wajgowhqcggwjcwrjmcwamko--hqgwugkwqdx
onzyygxwdcjmkxwhqcjmaqwhqgwejjxowdkxwsjugwzkwrcjuw gqzkxwezhqjmhwhqgzc
qjcogo!w Hqgw jbow.muygxwrjcwhqgwczigc-- jhqwjrwhqguwqmch--dkxwdowhqgb
oemuwxjekwhqgwsmccgkhwhqgwugkwcmkwdnjkawhqgw dktwoqjjhzkawdhwhqguwdkx
ozkazkawjmh,w“Tznnwhqgu,wtznnwhqgu!”w ZhwudxgwugwojwozstwZwujohwrgnnwjmh
jrwhqgwhcggpw Zwdzk'hwd-ajzkawhjwhgnnw_dnn_whqdhwqdyygkgx--zhwejmnxwudtg
ugwozstwdadzkwzrwZwedowhjwxjwhqdhpw ZwezoqgxwZwqdxk'hwgigcwsjugwdoqjcg
hqdhwkzaqhwhjwoggwomsqwhqzkaopw Zwdzk'hwgigcwajzkawhjwaghwoqmhwjr
hqgu--njhowjrwhzugowZwxcgduwd jmhwhqgup

Zwohdbgxwzkwhqgwhcggwhznnwzhw gamkwhjwaghwxdct,wdrcdzxwhjwsjugwxjekp
OjughzugowZwqgdcxwamkowdedbwjrrwzkwhqgwejjxo;wdkxwhezsgwZwoggkwnzhhng
adkaowjrwugkwadnnjywydohwhqgwnjawohjcgwezhqwamko;wojwZwcgstjkgxwhqg
hcjm ngwedowohznnwd-ajzkawjkpw Zwedowuzaqhbwxjekqgdchgx;wojwZwudxgwmywub
uzkxwZwejmnxk'hwgigcwajwdkgdcwhqdhwqjmogwdadzk,w gsdmogwZwcgstjkgxwZ
edowhjw ndug,wojugqjepwZw.mxagxwhqdhwhqdhwyzgsgwjrwydygcwugdkhwhqdhwUzoo
OjyqzdwedowhjwugghwQdckgbwojugeqgcgowdhwqdnr-ydohwhejwdkxwcmkwjrr;wdkx
Zw.mxagxwZwjmaqhwhjwhjnxwqgcwrdhqgcwd jmhwhqdhwydygcwdkxwhqgwsmczjmowedb
oqgwdshgx,wdkxwhqgkwudb gwqgwejmnxwdwnjstgxwqgcwmy,wdkxwhqzowdermnwugoo
ejmnxk'hwgigcwqdyygkgxp

EqgkwZwajhwxjekwjmhwjrwhqgwhcggwZwscgyhwdnjkawxjekwhqgwczigcw dktwd
yzgsg,wdkxwrjmkxwhqgwhejw jxzgowndbzkawzkwhqgwgxagwjrwhqgwedhgc,wdkx
hmaagxwdhwhqguwhznnwZwajhwhqguwdoqjcg;whqgkwZwsjigcgxwmywhqgzcwrdsgo,
dkxwajhwdedbwdowvmzstwdowZwsjmnxpw ZwsczgxwdwnzhhngweqgkwZwedowsjigczka
myw mst'owrdsg,wrjcwqgwedowuzaqhbwajjxwhjwugp

Zhwedow.mohwxdctwkjepw Zwkgigcwegkhwkgdcwhqgwqjmog,w mhwohcmstwhqcjmaq
hqgwejjxowdkxwudxgwrjcwhqgwoeduypw .zuwedck'hwjkwqzowzondkx,wojwZ
hcduygxwjrrwzkwdwqmccbwrjcwhqgwsczst,wdkxwscjexgxwhqcjmaqwhqgweznnjeo,
cgx-qjhwhjw.muywd jdcxwdkxwaghwjmhwjrwhqdhwdermnwsjmkhcbpw Hqgwcdrhwedo
ajkg!w Ubwojmno,w mhwZwedowosdcgx!w Zwsjmnxk'hwaghwubw cgdhqwrjcwujoh
dwuzkmhgpwHqgkwZwcdzogxwdwbgnnpw Dwijzsgwkjhwhegkhb-rzigwrjjhwrcjuwug
odbo:

“Ajjxwndk'!wzowxdhwbjm,wqjkgb?w Xjdk'wudtgwkjwkjzogp”

Zhwedow.zu'owijzsg--kjhqzkawgigcwojmkxgxwojwajjxw grjcgpw Zwcmkwdnjkawhqg
 dktwdwyzgsgwdkxwajhwd jdcx,wdkxw.zuwqgwacd  gxwugwdkxwqmaagxwug,wqgwedo
ojwandxwhjwoggwugpw Qgwodbo:

“Ndeow ngoowbjm,wsqzng,wZw'mlwczaqhwxjekwoqj'wbjm'owxgdxwdazkpw .dst'o
 ggkwqgdq;wqgwodbwqgwcgst'kwbjm'ow gkwoqjh,wtdogwbjmwxzxk'wsjugwqjugwkj
uj';wojwZ'ow.go'wxzowuzkmhgwdwohdchzk'wxgwcdr'wxjekwhjedcxowxgwujmrwgc
xgwsczst,woj'owhjw gwdnnwcgdxbwrjcwhjwoqjigwjmhwgkwngdigwojjkwdow.dst
sjugowdazkwgkwhgnnowugwrjcwsgchdzkwbjmw_zo_wxgdxpw Ndeob,wZ'owuzaqhb
andxwhjwazhwbjmw dstwdadzk,wqjkgbp”

Zwodbo:

“Dnnwczaqh--hqdh'owuzaqhbwajjx;whqgbwejk'hwrzkxwug,wdkxwhqgb'nnwhqzkt
Z'igw ggkwtznngx,wdkxwrnjdhgxwxjekwhqgwczigc--hqgcg'owojughqzkawmywhqgcg
hqdhw'nnwqgnywhqguwhqzktwoj--ojwxjk'hwbjmwnjogwkjwhzug,w.zu,w mhw.moh
oqjigwjrrwrjcwhqgw zawedhgcwdowrdohwdowgigcwbjmwsdkp”

Zwkgigcwrgnhwgdobwhznnwhqgwcdrhwedowhejwuzngw gnjewhqgcgwdkxwjmhwzk
hqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwUzoozoozyyzpw Hqgkwegwqmkawmywjmcwozakdnwndkhgck,wdkx
.mxagxwhqdhwegwedowrcggwdkxwodrgwjksgwujcgpw Zwqdxk'hwqdxwdw zhgwhjwgdh
ozksgwbgohgcxdb,wojw.zuwqgwajhwjmhwojugwsjck-xjxagcowdkxw mhhgcuznt,
dkxwyjctwdkxwsd  dagwdkxwacggko--hqgcgwdzk'hwkjhqzkawzkwhqgwejcnxwojwajjx
eqgkwzh'owsjjtgxwczaqh--dkxweqznohwZwgdhwubwomyygcwegwhdntgxwdkxwqdxwd
ajjxwhzugpw Zwedowyjegcrmnwandxwhjwaghwdedbwrcjuwhqgwrgmxo,wdkxwojwedo
.zuwhjwaghwdedbwrcjuwhqgwoeduypw Egwodzxwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwqjugwnztgwd
cdrh,wdrhgcwdnnpw Jhqgcwyndsgowxjwogguwojwscduygxwmywdkxwoujhqgcb,w mhwd
cdrhwxjk'hpw Bjmwrggnwuzaqhbwrcggwdkxwgdobwdkxwsjurjchd ngwjkwdwcdrhp




SQDYHGCwFZFp

HEJwjcwhqcggwxdbowdkxwkzaqhowegkhw b;wZwcgstjkwZwuzaqhwodbwhqgbwoemuw b,
hqgbwonzxwdnjkawojwvmzghwdkxwoujjhqwdkxwnjignbpw Qgcgwzowhqgwedbwegwymh
zkwhqgwhzugpw Zhwedowdwujkohcjmow zawczigcwxjekwhqgcg--ojughzugowdwuzng
dkxwdwqdnrwezxg;wegwcmkwkzaqho,wdkxwndzxwmywdkxwqzxwxdbhzugo;wojjkwdo
kzaqhwedowujohwajkgwegwohjyygxwkdizadhzkawdkxwhzgxwmy--kgdcnbwdnedbo
zkwhqgwxgdxwedhgcwmkxgcwdwhjeqgdx;wdkxwhqgkwsmhwbjmkawsjhhjkejjxowdkx
eznnjeo,wdkxwqzxwhqgwcdrhwezhqwhqgupw Hqgkwegwoghwjmhwhqgwnzkgopw Kgfh
egwonzxwzkhjwhqgwczigcwdkxwqdxwdwoezu,wojwdowhjwrcgoqgkwmywdkxwsjjn
jrr;whqgkwegwoghwxjekwjkwhqgwodkxbw jhhjuweqgcgwhqgwedhgcwedowd jmhwtkgg
xggy,wdkxwedhsqgxwhqgwxdbnzaqhwsjugpw Kjhwdwojmkxwdkbeqgcgo--ygcrgshnb
ohznn--.mohwnztgwhqgweqjngwejcnxwedowdonggy,wjknbwojughzugowhqgw mnnrcjao
d-snmhhgczka,wudb gpw Hqgwrzcohwhqzkawhjwogg,wnjjtzkawdedbwjigcwhqg
edhgc,wedowdwtzkxwjrwxmnnwnzkg--hqdhwedowhqgwejjxowjkwh'jhqgcwozxg;wbjm
sjmnxk'hwudtgwkjhqzkawgnogwjmh;whqgkwdwydngwyndsgwzkwhqgwotb;whqgkwujcg
ydngkgoowoycgdxzkawdcjmkx;whqgkwhqgwczigcwojrhgkgxwmywdedbwjrr,wdkx
edck'hw ndstwdkbwujcg,w mhwacdb;wbjmwsjmnxwoggwnzhhngwxdctwoyjho
xczrhzkawdnjkawgigcwojwrdcwdedb--hcdxzkawosjeo,wdkxwomsqwhqzkao;wdkx
njkaw ndstwohcgdto--cdrho;wojughzugowbjmwsjmnxwqgdcwdwoeggywoscgdtzka;wjc
.mu ngxwmywijzsgo,wzhwedowojwohznn,wdkxwojmkxowsjugwojwrdc;wdkxw bwdkx
 bwbjmwsjmnxwoggwdwohcgdtwjkwhqgwedhgcweqzsqwbjmwtkjew bwhqgwnjjtwjrwhqg
ohcgdtwhqdhwhqgcg'owdwokdawhqgcgwzkwdwoezrhwsmccgkhweqzsqw cgdtowjkwzh
dkxwudtgowhqdhwohcgdtwnjjtwhqdhwedb;wdkxwbjmwoggwhqgwuzohwsmcnwmywjrr
jrwhqgwedhgc,wdkxwhqgwgdohwcgxxgkowmy,wdkxwhqgwczigc,wdkxwbjmwudtgwjmhwd
nja-sd zkwzkwhqgwgxagwjrwhqgwejjxo,wdedbwjkwhqgw dktwjkwh'jhqgcwozxgwjr
hqgwczigc,w gzkawdwejjxbdcx,wnztgnb,wdkxwyzngxw bwhqguwsqgdhowojwbjmwsdk
hqcjewdwxjawhqcjmaqwzhwdkbeqgcgo;whqgkwhqgwkzsgw cgglgwoyczkaowmy,wdkx
sjugowrdkkzkawbjmwrcjuwjigcwhqgcg,wojwsjjnwdkxwrcgoqwdkxwoegghwhjwougnn
jkwdssjmkhwjrwhqgwejjxowdkxwhqgwrnjegco;w mhwojughzugowkjhwhqdhwedb,
 gsdmogwhqgb'igwngrhwxgdxwrzoqwndbzkawdcjmkx,wadcowdkxwomsq,wdkxwhqgb
xjwaghwycghhbwcdkt;wdkxwkgfhwbjm'igwajhwhqgwrmnnwxdb,wdkxwgigcbhqzka
ouznzkawzkwhqgwomk,wdkxwhqgwojka- zcxow.mohwajzkawzh!

Dwnzhhngwoujtgwsjmnxk'hw gwkjhzsgxwkje,wojwegwejmnxwhdtgwojugwrzoqwjrr
jrwhqgwnzkgowdkxwsjjtwmywdwqjhw cgdtrdohpw Dkxwdrhgcedcxowegwejmnxwedhsq
hqgwnjkgojugkgoowjrwhqgwczigc,wdkxwtzkxwjrwndlbwdnjka,wdkxw bwdkxw b
ndlbwjrrwhjwonggypw Edtgwmyw bwdkxw b,wdkxwnjjtwhjwoggweqdhwxjkgwzh,wdkx
udb gwoggwdwohgdu jdhwsjmaqzkawdnjkawmy-ohcgdu,wojwrdcwjrrwhjedcxowhqg
jhqgcwozxgwbjmwsjmnxk'hwhgnnwkjhqzkawd jmhwqgcwjknbweqghqgcwoqgwedo
dwohgck-eqggnwjcwozxg-eqggn;whqgkwrjcwd jmhwdkwqjmcwhqgcgwejmnxk'hw g
kjhqzkawhjwqgdcwkjcwkjhqzkawhjwogg--.mohwojnzxwnjkgojugkgoopw Kgfh
bjm'xwoggwdwcdrhwonzxzkaw b,wdedbwjrrwbjkxgc,wdkxwudb gwdwadnjjhwjkwzh
sqjyyzka,w gsdmogwhqgb'cgwujohwdnedbowxjzkawzhwjkwdwcdrh;wbjm'xwoggwhqg
dfgwrndoqwdkxwsjugwxjek--bjmwxjk'hwqgdcwkjhqzka;wbjmwoggwhqdhwdfgwaj
mywdadzk,wdkxw bwhqgwhzugwzh'owd jigwhqgwudk'owqgdxwhqgkwbjmwqgdcwhqg
_t'sqmkt_!--zhwqdxwhjjtwdnnwhqdhwhzugwhjwsjugwjigcwhqgwedhgcpw Ojweg
ejmnxwymhwzkwhqgwxdb,wndlbzkawdcjmkx,wnzohgkzkawhjwhqgwohznnkgoopw Jksg
hqgcgwedowdwhqzstwrja,wdkxwhqgwcdrhowdkxwhqzkaowhqdhwegkhw bwedow gdhzka
hzkwydkowojwhqgwohgdu jdhowejmnxk'hwcmkwjigcwhqgupw Dwosjewjcwd
cdrhwegkhw bwojwsnjogwegwsjmnxwqgdcwhqguwhdntzkawdkxwsmoozkawdkx
ndmaqzka--qgdcxwhqguwyndzk;w mhwegwsjmnxk'hwoggwkjwozakwjrwhqgu;wzhwudxg
bjmwrggnwscdenb;wzhwedownztgwoyzczhowsdccbzkawjkwhqdhwedbwzkwhqgwdzcp
 .zuwodzxwqgw gnzgigxwzhwedowoyzczho;w mhwZwodbo:

“Kj;woyzczhowejmnxk'hwodb,w'Xgckwhqgwxgckwrjap'”

Ojjkwdowzhwedowkzaqhwjmhwegwoqjigx;weqgkwegwajhwqgcwjmhwhjwd jmhwhqg
uzxxngwegwnghwqgcwdnjkg,wdkxwnghwqgcwrnjdhweqgcgigcwhqgwsmccgkhwedkhgx
qgcwhj;whqgkwegwnzhwhqgwyzygo,wdkxwxdkangxwjmcwngaowzkwhqgwedhgc,wdkx
hdntgxwd jmhwdnnwtzkxowjrwhqzkao--egwedowdnedbowkdtgx,wxdbwdkxwkzaqh,
eqgkgigcwhqgwujovmzhjgowejmnxwnghwmo--hqgwkgewsnjhqgow mst'owrjntowudxg
rjcwugwedowhjjwajjxwhjw gwsjurjchd ng,wdkxw gozxgowZwxzxk'hwajwumsqwjk
snjhqgo,wkjqjep

Ojughzugoweg'xwqdigwhqdhweqjngwczigcwdnnwhjwjmcognigowrjcwhqgwnjkagoh
hzugpwBjkxgcwedowhqgw dktowdkxwhqgwzondkxo,wdscjoowhqgwedhgc;wdkxwudb g
dwoydct--eqzsqwedowdwsdkxngwzkwdwsd zkwezkxje;wdkxwojughzugowjkwhqgwedhgc
bjmwsjmnxwoggwdwoydctwjcwhej--jkwdwcdrhwjcwdwosje,wbjmwtkje;wdkxwudb g
bjmwsjmnxwqgdcwdwrzxxngwjcwdwojkawsjuzkawjigcwrcjuwjkgwjrwhqguwscdrhop
Zh'ownjignbwhjwnzigwjkwdwcdrhpw Egwqdxwhqgwotbwmywhqgcg,wdnnwoygstngx
ezhqwohdco,wdkxwegwmogxwhjwndbwjkwjmcw dstowdkxwnjjtwmywdhwhqgu,wdkx
xzosmoowd jmhweqghqgcwhqgbwedowudxgwjcwjknbw.mohwqdyygkgxpw .zuwqg
dnnjegxwhqgbwedowudxg,w mhwZwdnnjegxwhqgbwqdyygkgx;wZw.mxagxwzhwejmnx
qdigwhjjtwhjjwnjkawhjw_udtg_wojwudkbpw .zuwodzxwhqgwujjkwsjmnxwdw_ndzx_
hqgu;wegnn,whqdhwnjjtgxwtzkxwjrwcgdojkd ng,wojwZwxzxk'hwodbwkjhqzka
dadzkohwzh,w gsdmogwZ'igwoggkwdwrcjawndbwujohwdowudkb,wojwjrwsjmcogwzh
sjmnxw gwxjkgpwEgwmogxwhjwedhsqwhqgwohdcowhqdhwrgnn,whjj,wdkxwoggwhqgu
ohcgdtwxjekpw .zuwdnnjegxwhqgb'xwajhwoyjzngxwdkxwedowqjigwjmhwjrwhqg
kgohp

Jksgwjcwhezsgwjrwdwkzaqhwegwejmnxwoggwdwohgdu jdhwonzyyzkawdnjkawzkwhqg
xdct,wdkxwkjewdkxwhqgkwoqgwejmnxw gnsqwdweqjngwejcnxwjrwoydctowmywjmh
jrwqgcwsqzu ngbo,wdkxwhqgbwejmnxwcdzkwxjekwzkwhqgwczigcwdkxwnjjtwdermn
ycghhb;whqgkwoqgwejmnxwhmckwdwsjckgcwdkxwqgcwnzaqhowejmnxwezktwjmhwdkx
qgcwyjeejewoqmhwjrrwdkxwngdigwhqgwczigcwohznnwdadzk;wdkxw bwdkxw bwqgc
edigowejmnxwaghwhjwmo,wdwnjkawhzugwdrhgcwoqgwedowajkg,wdkxw.jaangwhqg
cdrhwdw zh,wdkxwdrhgcwhqdhwbjmwejmnxk'hwqgdcwkjhqzkawrjcwbjmwsjmnxk'h
hgnnwqjewnjka,wgfsgyhwudb gwrcjaowjcwojughqzkap

Drhgcwuzxkzaqhwhqgwygjyngwjkwoqjcgwegkhwhjw gx,wdkxwhqgkwrjcwhejwjc
hqcggwqjmcowhqgwoqjcgowedow ndst--kjwujcgwoydctowzkwhqgwsd zkwezkxjeop
 Hqgogwoydctowedowjmcwsnjst--hqgwrzcohwjkgwhqdhwoqjegxwdadzkwugdkh
ujckzkawedowsjuzka,wojwegwqmkhgxwdwyndsgwhjwqzxgwdkxwhzgwmywczaqhwdedbp

Jkgwujckzkawd jmhwxdb cgdtwZwrjmkxwdwsdkjgwdkxwscjoogxwjigcwdwsqmhgwhj
hqgwudzkwoqjcg--zhwedowjknbwhejwqmkxcgxwbdcxo--dkxwydxxngxwd jmhwdwuzng
mywdwsczstwdujkaohwhqgwsbycgoowejjxo,whjwoggwzrwZwsjmnxk'hwaghwojug
 gcczgopw.mohwdowZwedowydoozkawdwyndsgweqgcgwdwtzkxwjrwdwsjeydhqwscjoogx
hqgwsczst,wqgcgwsjugowdwsjmyngwjrwugkwhgdczkawmywhqgwydhqwdowhzaqhwdo
hqgbwsjmnxwrjjhwzhpw ZwhqjmaqhwZwedowdwajkgc,wrjcweqgkgigcwdkb jxbwedo
drhgcwdkb jxbwZw.mxagxwzhwedow_ug_--jcwudb gw.zupw Zwedowd jmhwhjwxzawjmh
rcjuwhqgcgwzkwdwqmccb,w mhwhqgbwedowycghhbwsnjogwhjwugwhqgk,wdkxwomka
jmhwdkxw gaagxwugwhjwodigwhqgzcwnzigo--odzxwhqgbwqdxk'hw ggkwxjzka
kjhqzka,wdkxwedow gzkawsqdogxwrjcwzh--odzxwhqgcgwedowugkwdkxwxjao
d-sjuzkapw Hqgbwedkhgxwhjw.muywczaqhwzk,w mhwZwodbo:

“Xjk'hwbjmwxjwzhpw Zwxjk'hwqgdcwhqgwxjaowdkxwqjcogowbgh;wbjm'igwajhwhzug
hjwscjexwhqcjmaqwhqgw cmoqwdkxwaghwmywhqgwsczstwdwnzhhngwedbo;whqgkwbjm
hdtgwhjwhqgwedhgcwdkxwedxgwxjekwhjwugwdkxwaghwzk--hqdh'nnwhqcjewhqgwxjao
jrrwhqgwosgkhp”

Hqgbwxjkgwzh,wdkxwojjkwdowhqgbwedowd jdcxwZwnzhwjmhwrjcwjmcwhjeqgdx,
dkxwzkwd jmhwrzigwjcwhgkwuzkmhgowegwqgdcxwhqgwxjaowdkxwhqgwugkwdedbwjrr,
oqjmhzkapwEgwqgdcxwhqguwsjugwdnjkawhjedcxowhqgwsczst,w mhwsjmnxk'h
oggwhqgu;whqgbwoggugxwhjwohjywdkxwrjjnwdcjmkxwdweqzng;whqgk,wdowegwajh
rmchqgcwdkxwrmchqgcwdedbwdnnwhqgwhzug,wegwsjmnxk'hwqdcxnbwqgdcwhqguwdh
dnn;w bwhqgwhzugwegwqdxwngrhwdwuzngwjrwejjxow gqzkxwmowdkxwohcmstwhqg
czigc,wgigcbhqzkawedowvmzgh,wdkxwegwydxxngxwjigcwhjwhqgwhjeqgdxwdkxwqzx
zkwhqgwsjhhjkejjxowdkxwedowodrgp

Jkgwjrwhqgogwrgnnjeowedowd jmhwogigkhbwjcwmyedcxo,wdkxwqdxwdw dnxwqgdx
dkxwigcbwacdbweqzotgcopw Qgwqdxwdkwjnxw dhhgcgx-mywonjmsqwqdhwjk,wdkx
dwacgdobw nmgwejjnngkwoqzch,wdkxwcdaagxwjnxw nmgw.gdkow czhsqgowohmrrgx
zkhjwqzow jjh-hjyo,wdkxwqjug-tkzhwadnnmogo--kj,wqgwjknbwqdxwjkgpw Qgwqdx
dkwjnxwnjka-hdzngxw nmgw.gdkowsjdhwezhqwonzstw cdoow mhhjkowrnmkawjigc
qzowdcu,wdkxw jhqwjrwhqguwqdxw za,wrdh,wcdhhb-njjtzkawsdcygh- daop

Hqgwjhqgcwrgnnjewedowd jmhwhqzchb,wdkxwxcgoogxwd jmhwdowjckgcbpw Drhgc
 cgdtrdohwegwdnnwndzxwjrrwdkxwhdntgx,wdkxwhqgwrzcohwhqzkawhqdhwsjugwjmh
edowhqdhwhqgogwsqdyowxzxk'hwtkjewjkgwdkjhqgcp

“Eqdhwajhwbjmwzkhjwhcjm ng?”wodbowhqgw dnxqgdxwhjwh'jhqgcwsqdyp

“Egnn,wZ'xw ggkwognnzkawdkwdchzsngwhjwhdtgwhqgwhdchdcwjrrwhqgwhgghq--dkx
zhwxjgowhdtgwzhwjrr,whjj,wdkxwagkgcnbwhqgwgkdugnwdnjkawezhqwzh-- mhwZ
ohdbgxwd jmhwjkgwkzaqhwnjkagcwhqdkwZwjmaqhwhj,wdkxwedow.mohwzkwhqgwdsh
jrwonzxzkawjmhweqgkwZwcdkwdscjoowbjmwjkwhqgwhcdznwhqzowozxgwjrwhjek,wdkx
bjmwhjnxwugwhqgbwegcgwsjuzka,wdkxw gaagxwugwhjwqgnywbjmwhjwaghwjrrpw Oj
ZwhjnxwbjmwZwedowgfygshzkawhcjm ngwubognr,wdkxwejmnxwosdhhgcwjmhw_ezhq_
bjmpwHqdh'owhqgweqjngwbdck--eqdh'owbjmck?

“Egnn,wZ'xw gkwd-cmkkzka'wdwnzhhngwhguygcdksgwcgizidnwhqdcw' jmhwdweggt,
dkxwedowhqgwyghwjrwhqgwejugkwrjnto,w zawdkxwnzhhng,wrjcwZwedowudtzk'wzh
uzaqhbwedcuwrjcwhqgwcmuuzgo,wZw_hgnn_wbjm,wdkxwhdtzk'wdowumsqwdowrzig
jcwozfwxjnndcowdwkzaqh--hgkwsgkhowdwqgdx,wsqznxcgkwdkxwkzaagcowrcgg--dkx
 mozkgoowd-acjezk'wdnnwhqgwhzug,weqgkwojugqjewjcwdkjhqgcwdwnzhhngwcgyjch
ajhwdcjmkxwndohwkzaqhwhqdhwZwqdxwdwedbwjrwymhhzk'wzkwubwhzugwezhqwd
yczidhgw.mawjkwhqgwonbpw Dwkzaagcwcjmohgxwugwjmhwhqzowujckzk',wdkxwhjnx
ugwhqgwygjyngwedowaghqgczk'wjkwhqgwvmzghwezhqwhqgzcwxjaowdkxwqjcogo,wdkx
hqgb'xw gwdnjkawycghhbwojjkwdkxwazigwugw' jmhwqdnrwdkwqjmc'owohdch,
dkxwhqgkwcmkwugwxjekwzrwhqgbwsjmnx;wdkxwzrwhqgbwajhwugwhqgb'xwhdc
dkxwrgdhqgcwugwdkxwczxgwugwjkwdwcdzn,womcgpw Zwxzxk'hwedzhwrjcwkj
 cgdtrdoh--Zwedck'hwqmkacbp”

“Jnxwudk,”wodzxwhqgwbjmkawjkg,w“Zwcgstjkwegwuzaqhwxjm ng-hgduwzh
hjaghqgc;weqdhwxjwbjmwhqzkt?”

“Zwdzk'hwmkxzoyjogxpw Eqdh'owbjmcwnzkg--udzknb?”

“.jmcwyczkhgcw bwhcdxg;wxjwdwnzhhngwzkwydhgkhwugxzszkgo;
hqgdhgc-dshjc--hcdagxb,wbjmwtkje;whdtgwdwhmckwhjwugougczouwdkxwyqcgkjnjab
eqgkwhqgcg'owdwsqdksg;whgdsqwozkazka-agjacdyqbwosqjjnwrjcwdwsqdkag;
onzkawdwngshmcgwojughzugo--jq,wZwxjwnjhowjrwhqzkao--ujohwdkbhqzkawhqdh
sjugowqdkxb,wojwzhwdzk'hwejctpw Eqdh'owbjmcwndb?”

“Z'igwxjkgwsjkozxgc ngwzkwhqgwxjshjczkawedbwzkwubwhzugpw Ndbzk'wjkwj'
qdkxowzowubw gohwqjnh--rjcwsdksgcwdkxwydcdnbozo,wdkxwozsqwhqzkao;wdkxwZ
t'kwhgnnwdwrjchmkgwycghhbwajjxweqgkwZ'igwajhwojug jxbwdnjkawhjwrzkxwjmh
hqgwrdshowrjcwugpw Ycgdsqzk'owubwnzkg,whjj,wdkxwejctzk'wsduy-ugghzk'o,
dkxwuzoozjkdcbzk'wdcjmkxp”

Kj jxbwkgigcwodzxwdkbhqzkawrjcwdweqzng;whqgkwhqgwbjmkawudkwqjigwdwozaq
dkxwodbo:

“Dndo!”

“Eqdhw'cgwbjmwdndoozk'wd jmh?”wodbowhqgw dnx-qgdxp

“HjwhqzktwZwoqjmnxwqdigwnzigxwhjw gwngdxzkawomsqwdwnzrg,wdkxw gwxgacdxgx
xjekwzkhjwomsqwsjuydkbp”w Dkxwqgw gamkwhjwezygwhqgwsjckgcwjrwqzowgbg
ezhqwdwcdap

“Xgckwbjmcwotzk,wdzk'hwhqgwsjuydkbwajjxwgkjmaqwrjcwbjm?”wodbowhqg
 dnxqgdx,wycghhbwygchwdkxwmyyzoqp

“Bgo,wzhw_zo_wajjxwgkjmaqwrjcwug;wzh'owdowajjxwdowZwxgogcig;wrjcweqj
rghsqgxwugwojwnjeweqgkwZwedowojwqzaq?w Zwxzxwubognrpw Zwxjk'hw ndug
_bjm_,wagkhngugk--rdcwrcjuwzh;wZwxjk'hw ndugwdkb jxbpw Zwxgogcigwzh
dnnpw Nghwhqgwsjnxwejcnxwxjwzhowejcoh;wjkgwhqzkawZwtkje--hqgcg'owdwacdig
ojugeqgcgwrjcwugpwHqgwejcnxwudbwajwjkw.mohwdowzh'owdnedbowxjkg,wdkxwhdtg
gigcbhqzkawrcjuwug--njigxwjkgo,wycjygchb,wgigcbhqzka;w mhwzhwsdk'hwhdtg
hqdhpwOjugwxdbwZ'nnwnzgwxjekwzkwzhwdkxwrjcaghwzhwdnn,wdkxwubwyjjcw cjtgk
qgdchweznnw gwdhwcgohp”w Qgwegkhwjkwd-ezyzkap

“Xcjhwbjmcwyjcgw cjtgkwqgdch,”wodbowhqgw dnxqgdx;w“eqdhwdcgwbjmwqgdizka
bjmcwyjcgw cjtgkwqgdchwdhw_mo_wr'c?w _eg_wqdzk'hwxjkgwkjhqzkap”

“Kj,wZwtkjewbjmwqdigk'hpw Zwdzk'hw nduzkawbjm,wagkhngugkpw Zw cjmaqh
ubognrwxjek--bgo,wZwxzxwzhwubognrpw Zh'owczaqhwZwoqjmnxwomrrgc--ygcrgshnb
czaqh--Zwxjk'hwudtgwdkbwujdkp”

“ cjmaqhwbjmwxjekwrcjuweqdc?w Eqdcwedowbjmw cjmaqhwxjekwrcju?”

“Dq,wbjmwejmnxwkjhw gnzgigwug;whqgwejcnxwkgigcw gnzgigo--nghwzhwydoo--'hzo
kjwudhhgcpw Hqgwogscghwjrwubw zchq--”

“Hqgwogscghwjrwbjmcw zchq!w Xjwbjmwugdkwhjwodb--”

“Agkhngugk,”wodbowhqgwbjmkawudk,wigcbwojnguk,w“Zweznnwcgigdnwzhwhjwbjm,
rjcwZwrggnwZwudbwqdigwsjkrzxgksgwzkwbjmpw  bwczaqhowZwduwdwxmtg!”

.zu'owgbgow maagxwjmhweqgkwqgwqgdcxwhqdh;wdkxwZwcgstjkwuzkgwxzx,whjjp
Hqgkwhqgw dnxqgdxwodbo:ww“Kj!wbjmwsdk'hwugdkwzh?”

“Bgopw Ubwacgdh-acdkxrdhqgc,wgnxgohwojkwjrwhqgwXmtgwjrw czxagedhgc,wrngx
hjwhqzowsjmkhcbwd jmhwhqgwgkxwjrwhqgwndohwsgkhmcb,whjw cgdhqgwhqgwymcg
dzcwjrwrcggxju;wudcczgxwqgcg,wdkxwxzgx,wngdizkawdwojk,wqzowjekwrdhqgc
xbzkawd jmhwhqgwodugwhzugpw Hqgwogsjkxwojkwjrwhqgwndhgwxmtgwogzlgxwhqg
hzhngowdkxwgohdhgo--hqgwzkrdkhwcgdnwxmtgwedowzakjcgxpw Zwduwhqgwnzkgdn
xgosgkxdkhwjrwhqdhwzkrdkh--ZwduwhqgwczaqhrmnwXmtgwjrw czxagedhgc;wdkx
qgcgwduwZ,wrjcnjck,whjckwrcjuwubwqzaqwgohdhg,wqmkhgxwjrwugk,wxgoyzogx
 bwhqgwsjnxwejcnx,wcdaagx,wejck,wqgdch- cjtgk,wdkxwxgacdxgxwhjwhqg
sjuydkzjkoqzywjrwrgnjkowjkwdwcdrh!”

.zuwyzhzgxwqzuwgigcwojwumsq,wdkxwojwxzxwZpwEgwhczgxwhjwsjurjchwqzu,w mh
qgwodzxwzhwedck'hwumsqwmog,wqgwsjmnxk'hw gwumsqwsjurjchgx;wodzxwzrweg
edowdwuzkxwhjwdstkjengxagwqzu,whqdhwejmnxwxjwqzuwujcgwajjxwhqdkwujoh
dkbhqzkawgnog;wojwegwodzxwegwejmnx,wzrwqgwejmnxwhgnnwmowqjepw Qgwodzxweg
jmaqhwhjw jeweqgkwegwoyjtgwhjwqzu,wdkxwodbw“BjmcwAcdsg,”wjcw“UbwNjcx,”
wjcw“BjmcwNjcxoqzy”--dkxwqgwejmnxk'hwuzkxwzhwzrwegwsdnngxwqzuwyndzk
“ czxagedhgc,”weqzsq,wqgwodzx,wedowdwhzhngwdkbedb,wdkxwkjhwdwkdug;wdkx
jkgwjrwmowjmaqhwhjwedzhwjkwqzuwdhwxzkkgc,wdkxwxjwdkbwnzhhngwhqzkawrjc
qzuwqgwedkhgxwxjkgp

Egnn,whqdhwedowdnnwgdob,wojwegwxjkgwzhpw Dnnwhqcjmaqwxzkkgcw.zuwohjjx
dcjmkxwdkxwedzhgxwjkwqzu,wdkxwodbo,w“Eznnwbj'wAcdsgwqdigwojugwj'wxzowjc
ojugwj'wxdh?”wdkxwojwjk,wdkxwdw jxbwsjmnxwoggwzhwedowuzaqhbwyngdozkawhj
qzup

 mhwhqgwjnxwudkwajhwycghhbwozngkhw bwdkxw b--xzxk'hwqdigwumsqwhjwodb,wdkx
xzxk'hwnjjtwycghhbwsjurjchd ngwjigcwdnnwhqdhwyghhzkawhqdhwedowajzkawjk
dcjmkxwhqdhwxmtgpw Qgwoggugxwhjwqdigwojughqzkawjkwqzowuzkxpw Oj,wdnjka
zkwhqgwdrhgckjjk,wqgwodbo:

“Njjtbwqgcg,w znagedhgc,”wqgwodbo,w“Z'uwkdhzjkwojccbwrjcwbjm,w mhwbjm
dzk'hwhqgwjknbwygcojkwhqdh'owqdxwhcjm ngownztgwhqdhp”

“Kj?”

“Kjwbjmwdzk'hpw Bjmwdzk'hwhqgwjknbwygcojkwhqdh'ow gkwokdtgxwxjek
ecjkarmnnbwjmh'kwdwqzaqwyndsgp”

“Dndo!”

“Kj,wbjmwdzk'hwhqgwjknbwygcojkwhqdh'owqdxwdwogscghwjrwqzow zchqp”w Dkx,
 bw.zkao,w_qg_w gazkowhjwscbp

“Qjnx!w Eqdhwxjwbjmwugdk?”

“ znagedhgc,wtzkwZwhcmohwbjm?”wodbowhqgwjnxwudk,wohznnwojchwjrwoj  zkap

“Hjwhqgw zhhgcwxgdhq!”w Qgwhjjtwhqgwjnxwudkw bwhqgwqdkxwdkxwovmgglgxwzh,
dkxwodbo,w“Hqdhwogscghwjrwbjmcw gzka:w oygdt!”

“ znagedhgc,wZwduwhqgwndhgwXdmyqzk!”

Bjmw ghwbjm,w.zuwdkxwugwohdcgxwhqzowhzugpw Hqgkwhqgwxmtgwodbo:

“Bjmwdcgweqdh?”

“Bgo,wubwrczgkx,wzhwzowhjjwhcmg--bjmcwgbgowzownjjtzk'wdhwhqzowigcbwujugkh
jkwhqgwyjcgwxzodyygdcgxwXdmyqzk,wNjjbwhqgwOgigkhggk,wojkwjrwNjjbwhqg
OzfhggkwdkxwUdccbwDkhjkghhgp”

“Bjm!w Dhwbjmcwdag!w Kj!w Bjmwugdkwbjm'cgwhqgwndhgwSqdcngudakg;wbjmwumoh
 gwozfwjcwogigkwqmkxcgxwbgdcowjnx,wdhwhqgwigcbwngdohp”

“Hcjm ngwqdowxjkgwzh,w znagedhgc,whcjm ngwqdowxjkgwzh;whcjm ngwqdow cmka
hqgogwacdbwqdzcowdkxwhqzowycgudhmcgw dnxzhmxgpw Bgo,wagkhngugk,wbjm
oggw grjcgwbjm,wzkw nmgw.gdkowdkxwuzogcb,whqgwedkxgczk',wgfzngx,
hcduyngx-jk,wdkxwomrrgczk'wczaqhrmnwTzkawjrwRcdksgp”

Egnn,wqgwsczgxwdkxwhjjtwjkwojwhqdhwugwdkxw.zuwxzxk'hwtkjewqdcxnbweqdhwhj
xj,wegwedowojwojccb--dkxwojwandxwdkxwycjmxweg'xwajhwqzuwezhqwmo,whjjp
 Ojwegwoghwzk,wnztgwegwxjkgw grjcgwezhqwhqgwxmtg,wdkxwhczgxwhjwsjurjch
_qzu_pw mhwqgwodzxwzhwedck'hwkjwmog,wkjhqzkaw mhwhjw gwxgdxwdkxwxjkg
ezhqwzhwdnnwsjmnxwxjwqzuwdkbwajjx;whqjmaqwqgwodzxwzhwjrhgkwudxgwqzuwrggn
gdozgcwdkxw ghhgcwrjcwdweqzngwzrwygjyngwhcgdhgxwqzuwdssjcxzkawhjwqzo
czaqho,wdkxwajhwxjekwjkwjkgwtkggwhjwoygdtwhjwqzu,wdkxwdnedbowsdnngxwqzu
“BjmcwUd.gohb,”wdkxwedzhgxwjkwqzuwrzcohwdhwugdno,wdkxwxzxk'hwoghwxjek
zkwqzowycgogksgwhznnwqgwdotgxwhqgupwOjw.zuwdkxwugwoghwhjwud.gohbzkawqzu,
dkxwxjzkawhqzowdkxwhqdhwdkxwh'jhqgcwrjcwqzu,wdkxwohdkxzkawmywhznnwqg
hjnxwmowegwuzaqhwoghwxjekpw Hqzowxjkgwqzuwqgdyowjrwajjx,wdkxwojwqg
ajhwsqggcrmnwdkxwsjurjchd ngpw  mhwhqgwxmtgwtzkxwjrwojmcgxwjkwqzu,wdkx
xzxk'hwnjjtwdw zhwodhzorzgxwezhqwhqgwedbwhqzkaowedowajzka;wohznn,
hqgwtzkawdshgxwcgdnwrczgkxnbwhjedcxowqzu,wdkxwodzxwhqgwxmtg'o
acgdh-acdkxrdhqgcwdkxwdnnwhqgwjhqgcwXmtgowjrw znagedhgcwedowdwajjx
xgdnwhqjmaqhwjrw bw_qzo_wrdhqgc,wdkxwedowdnnjegxwhjwsjugwhjwhqgwydndsg
sjkozxgcd ng;w mhwhqgwxmtgwohdbgxwqmrrbwdwajjxweqzng,whznnw bwdkxw bwhqg
tzkawodbo:

“Nztgwdowkjhwegwajhwhjw gwhjaghqgcwdw ndugxwnjkawhzugwjkwhqzowq-bgc
cdrh,w znagedhgc,wdkxwojweqdh'owhqgwmogwj'wbjmcw gzk'wojmc?w Zhw'nnwjknb
udtgwhqzkaowjksjurjchd ngpw Zhwdzk'hwubwrdmnhwZwedck'hw jckwdwxmtg,
zhwdzk'hwbjmcwrdmnhwbjmwedck'hw jckwdwtzka--ojweqdh'owhqgwmogwhjwejccb?
 Udtgwhqgw gohwj'whqzkaowhqgwedbwbjmwrzkxw'gu,wodbowZ--hqdh'owubwujhhjp
 Hqzowdzk'hwkjw dxwhqzkawhqdhweg'igwohcmstwqgcg--yngkhbwacm wdkxwdkwgdob
nzrg--sjug,wazigwmowbjmcwqdkx,wxmtg,wdkxwng'owdnnw gwrczgkxop”

Hqgwxmtgwxjkgwzh,wdkxw.zuwdkxwugwedowycghhbwandxwhjwoggwzhpw Zhwhjjt
dedbwdnnwhqgwmksjurjchd ngkgoowdkxwegwrgnhwuzaqhbwajjxwjigcwzh,w gsdmog
zhwejmnxwdw ggkwdwuzogcd ngw mozkgoowhjwqdigwdkbwmkrczgkxnzkgoowjkwhqg
cdrh;wrjcweqdhwbjmwedkh,wd jigwdnnwhqzkao,wjkwdwcdrh,wzowrjcwgigcb jxb
hjw gwodhzorzgx,wdkxwrggnwczaqhwdkxwtzkxwhjedcxowhqgwjhqgcop

Zhwxzxk'hwhdtgwugwnjkawhjwudtgwmywubwuzkxwhqdhwhqgogwnzdcowedck'hwkj
tzkaowkjcwxmtgowdhwdnn,w mhw.mohwnje-xjekwqmu maowdkxwrcdmxopw  mhwZ
kgigcwodzxwkjhqzka,wkgigcwnghwjk;wtgyhwzhwhjwubognr;wzh'owhqgw gohwedb;
hqgkwbjmwxjk'hwqdigwkjwvmdccgno,wdkxwxjk'hwaghwzkhjwkjwhcjm ngpw Zrwhqgb
edkhgxwmowhjwsdnnwhqguwtzkaowdkxwxmtgo,wZwqdxk'hwkjwj .gshzjko,w'njkawdo
zhwejmnxwtggywygdsgwzkwhqgwrduznb;wdkxwzhwedck'hwkjwmogwhjwhgnnw.zu,woj
Zwxzxk'hwhgnnwqzupw ZrwZwkgigcwngdckhwkjhqzkawgnogwjmhwjrwydy,wZwngdckh
hqdhwhqgw gohwedbwhjwaghwdnjkawezhqwqzowtzkxwjrwygjyngwzowhjwnghwhqgu
qdigwhqgzcwjekwedbp




SQDYHGCwFFp

HQGBwdotgxwmowsjkozxgcd ngwudkbwvmgohzjko;wedkhgxwhjwtkjeweqdhweg
sjigcgxwmywhqgwcdrhwhqdhwedbwrjc,wdkxwndzxw bwzkwhqgwxdbhzugwzkohgdxwjr
cmkkzka--edow.zuwdwcmkdedbwkzaagc?w OdbowZ:

“Ajjxkgoowodtgo!wejmnxwdwcmkdedbwkzaagcwcmkw_ojmhq_?”

Kj,whqgbwdnnjegxwqgwejmnxk'hpw Zwqdxwhjwdssjmkhwrjcwhqzkaowojugwedb,woj
Zwodbo:

“UbwrjntowedownzizkawzkwYztgwSjmkhb,wzkwUzoojmcz,weqgcgwZwedow jck,wdkx
hqgbwdnnwxzgxwjrrw mhwugwdkxwydwdkxwubw cjhqgcwZtgpw Yd,wqgw'njegx
qg'xw cgdtwmywdkxwajwxjekwdkxwnzigwezhqwMksngw gk,weqj'owajhwdwnzhhng
jkg-qjcogwyndsgwjkwhqgwczigc,wrjchb-rjmcwuzngw gnjewJcngdkopw Ydwedo
ycghhbwyjjc,wdkxwqdxwojugwxg ho;wojweqgkwqg'xwovmdcgxwmywhqgcgwedck'h
kjhqzkawngrhw mhwozfhggkwxjnndcowdkxwjmcwkzaagc,w.zupw Hqdhwedck'h
gkjmaqwhjwhdtgwmowrjmchggkwqmkxcgxwuzng,wxgstwydoodagwkjcwkjwjhqgcwedbp
 Egnn,weqgkwhqgwczigcwcjogwydwqdxwdwohcgdtwjrwnmstwjkgwxdb;wqgwtghsqgx
hqzowyzgsgwjrwdwcdrh;wojwegwcgstjkgxweg'xwajwxjekwhjwJcngdkowjkwzhp
 Yd'ownmstwxzxk'hwqjnxwjmh;wdwohgdu jdhwcmkwjigcwhqgwrjccdcxwsjckgcwjr
hqgwcdrhwjkgwkzaqh,wdkxwegwdnnwegkhwjigc jdcxwdkxwxjigwmkxgcwhqgweqggn;
.zuwdkxwugwsjugwmywdnnwczaqh,w mhwydwedowxcmkt,wdkxwZtgwedowjknbwrjmc
bgdcowjnx,wojwhqgbwkgigcwsjugwmywkjwujcgpw Egnn,wrjcwhqgwkgfhwxdbwjc
hejwegwqdxwsjkozxgcd ngwhcjm ng,w gsdmogwygjyngwedowdnedbowsjuzkawjmhwzk
otzrrowdkxwhcbzkawhjwhdtgw.zuwdedbwrcjuwug,wodbzkawhqgbw gnzgigxwqgwedo
dwcmkdedbwkzaagcpw Egwxjk'hwcmkwxdbhzugowkjwujcgwkje;wkzaqhowhqgbwxjk'h
 jhqgcwmop”

Hqgwxmtgwodbo:

“Ngdigwugwdnjkgwhjwszyqgcwjmhwdwedbwojwegwsdkwcmkwzkwhqgwxdbhzugwzrweg
edkhwhjpw Z'nnwhqzktwhqgwhqzkawjigc--Z'nnwzkigkhwdwyndkwhqdh'nnwrzfwzhp
Eg'nnwnghwzhwdnjkgwrjcwhj-xdb,w gsdmogwjrwsjmcogwegwxjk'hwedkhwhjwajw b
hqdhwhjekwbjkxgcwzkwxdbnzaqh--zhwuzaqhk'hw gwqgdnhqbp”

Hjedcxowkzaqhwzhw gamkwhjwxdctgkwmywdkxwnjjtwnztgwcdzk;whqgwqgdh
nzaqhkzkawedowovmzchzkawdcjmkxwnjewxjekwzkwhqgwotb,wdkxwhqgwngdigowedo
 gazkkzkawhjwoqzigc--zhwedowajzkawhjw gwycghhbwmanb,wzhwedowgdobwhjwogg
hqdhpw Ojwhqgwxmtgwdkxwhqgwtzkawegkhwhjwjigcqdmnzkawjmcwezaedu,whjwogg
eqdhwhqgw gxowedownztgpw Ubw gxwedowdwohcdewhzstw ghhgcwhqdkw.zu'o,
eqzsqwedowdwsjck-oqmstwhzst;whqgcg'owdnedbowsj owdcjmkxwd jmhwzkwdwoqmst
hzst,wdkxwhqgbwyjtgwzkhjwbjmwdkxwqmch;wdkxweqgkwbjmwcjnnwjigcwhqgwxcb
oqmstowojmkxwnztgwbjmwedowcjnnzkawjigcwzkwdwyzngwjrwxgdxwngdigo;wzh
udtgowomsqwdwcmohnzkawhqdhwbjmwedtgwmypw Egnn,whqgwxmtgwdnnjegxwqgwejmnx
hdtgwubw gx;w mhwhqgwtzkawdnnjegxwqgwejmnxk'hpw Qgwodbo:

“Zwoqjmnxwdwcgstjkgxwhqgwxzrrgcgksgwzkwcdktwejmnxwdwog.gohgxwhjwbjmwhqdh
dwsjck-oqmstw gxwedck'hw.mohwrzhhgkwrjcwugwhjwonggywjkpw BjmcwAcdsgw'nn
hdtgwhqgwoqmstw gxwbjmcognrp”

.zuwdkxwugwedowzkwdwoegdhwdadzkwrjcwdwuzkmhg,w gzkawdrcdzxwhqgcgwedo
ajzkawhjw gwojugwujcgwhcjm ngwdujkaohwhqgu;wojwegwedowycghhbwandxweqgk
hqgwxmtgwodbo:

“'Hzowubwrdhgwhjw gwdnedbowacjmkxwzkhjwhqgwuzcgwmkxgcwhqgwzcjkwqggnwjr
jyycgoozjkpw Uzorjchmkgwqdow cjtgkwubwjksgwqdmaqhbwoyzczh;wZwbzgnx,wZ
om uzh;w'hzowubwrdhgpw Zwduwdnjkgwzkwhqgwejcnx--nghwugwomrrgc;wsdkw gdc
zhp”

Egwajhwdedbwdowojjkwdowzhwedowajjxwdkxwxdctpw Hqgwtzkawhjnxwmowhjwohdkx
egnnwjmhwhjedcxowhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwczigc,wdkxwkjhwoqjewdwnzaqhwhznnweg
ajhwdwnjkawedbow gnjewhqgwhjekpw Egwsjugwzkwozaqhwjrwhqgwnzhhngw mksqwjr
nzaqhow bwdkxw b--hqdhwedowhqgwhjek,wbjmwtkje--dkxwonzxw b,wd jmhwdwqdnr
dwuzngwjmh,wdnnwczaqhpw Eqgkwegwedowhqcgg-vmdchgcowjrwdwuzngw gnjeweg
qjzohgxwmywjmcwozakdnwndkhgck;wdkxwd jmhwhgkwj'snjstwzhwsjugwjkwhjwcdzk
dkxw njewdkxwhqmkxgcwdkxwnzaqhgkwnztgwgigcbhqzka;wojwhqgwtzkawhjnxwmo
hjw jhqwohdbwjkwedhsqwhznnwhqgwegdhqgcwajhw ghhgc;whqgkwqzuwdkxwhqgwxmtg
scdengxwzkhjwhqgwezaeduwdkxwhmckgxwzkwrjcwhqgwkzaqhpw Zhwedowubwedhsq
 gnjewhznnwhegnig,w mhwZwejmnxk'hwdwhmckgxwzkwdkbedbwzrwZ'xwqdxwdw gx,
 gsdmogwdw jxbwxjk'hwoggwomsqwdwohjcuwdowhqdhwgigcbwxdbwzkwhqgweggt,wkjh
 bwdwnjkawozaqhpw Ubwojmno,wqjewhqgwezkxwxzxwoscgduwdnjka!w Dkxwgigcb
ogsjkxwjcwhejwhqgcg'xwsjugwdwandcgwhqdhwnzhwmywhqgweqzhg-sdyowrjcwdwqdnr
dwuzngwdcjmkx,wdkxwbjm'xwoggwhqgwzondkxownjjtzkawxmohbwhqcjmaqwhqgwcdzk,
dkxwhqgwhcggowhqcdoqzkawdcjmkxwzkwhqgwezkx;whqgkwsjugowdwQ-EQDST!-- mu!
 mu!w mu ng-mu ng-mu- mu- mu- mu- mu--dkxwhqgwhqmkxgcwejmnxwajwcmu nzka
dkxwacmu nzkawdedb,wdkxwvmzh--dkxwhqgkwCZYwsjugowdkjhqgcwrndoqwdkx
dkjhqgcwojstxjndagcpw Hqgwedigowujohwedoqgxwugwjrrwhqgwcdrhwojughzugo,
 mhwZwqdxk'hwdkbwsnjhqgowjk,wdkxwxzxk'hwuzkxpw Egwxzxk'hwqdigwkjwhcjm ng
d jmhwokdao;whqgwnzaqhkzkawedowandczkawdkxwrnzhhgczkawdcjmkxwojwsjkohdkh
hqdhwegwsjmnxwoggwhqguwyngkhbwojjkwgkjmaqwhjwhqcjewqgcwqgdxwhqzowedbwjc
hqdhwdkxwuzoowhqgup

Zwqdxwhqgwuzxxngwedhsq,wbjmwtkje,w mhwZwedowycghhbwonggybw bwhqdhwhzug,
ojw.zuwqgwodzxwqgwejmnxwohdkxwhqgwrzcohwqdnrwjrwzhwrjcwug;wqgwedowdnedbo
uzaqhbwajjxwhqdhwedb,w.zuwedopw Zwscdengxwzkhjwhqgwezaedu,w mhwhqgwtzka
dkxwhqgwxmtgwqdxwhqgzcwngaowoycdengxwdcjmkxwojwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwoqjewrjc
ug;wojwZwndzxwjmhozxg--Zwxzxk'hwuzkxwhqgwcdzk,w gsdmogwzhwedowedcu,wdkx
hqgwedigowedck'hwcmkkzkawojwqzaqwkjepw D jmhwhejwhqgbwsjugwmywdadzk,
hqjmaq,wdkxw.zuwedowajzkawhjwsdnnwug;w mhwqgwsqdkagxwqzowuzkx,w gsdmog
qgwcgstjkgxwhqgbwedck'hwqzaqwgkjmaqwbghwhjwxjwdkbwqdcu;w mhwqgwedo
uzohdtgkwd jmhwhqdh,wrjcwycghhbwojjkwdnnwjrwdwomxxgkwdnjkawsjugowd
cgamndcwczyygcwdkxwedoqgxwugwjigc jdcxpw Zhwujohwtznngxw.zuwd-ndmaqzkap
 Qgwedowhqgwgdozgohwkzaagcwhjwndmaqwhqdhwgigcwedo,wdkbedbp

Zwhjjtwhqgwedhsq,wdkxw.zuwqgwndzxwxjekwdkxwokjcgxwdedb;wdkxw bwdkxw b
hqgwohjcuwnghwmywrjcwajjxwdkxwdnn;wdkxwhqgwrzcohwsd zk-nzaqhwhqdhwoqjegx
Zwcjmohgxwqzuwjmh,wdkxwegwonzxwhqgwcdrhwzkhjwqzxzkawvmdchgcowrjcwhqg
xdbp

Hqgwtzkawajhwjmhwdkwjnxwcdhhbwxgstwjrwsdcxowdrhgcw cgdtrdoh,wdkxwqzu
dkxwhqgwxmtgwyndbgxwogigk-mywdweqzng,wrzigwsgkhowdwadugpw Hqgkwhqgbwajh
hzcgxwjrwzh,wdkxwdnnjegxwhqgbwejmnxw“ndbwjmhwdwsduydzak,”wdowhqgbwsdnngx
zhpwHqgwxmtgwegkhwxjekwzkhjwqzowsdcygh- da,wdkxwrghsqgxwmywdwnjhwjr
nzhhngwyczkhgxw znnowdkxwcgdxwhqguwjmhwnjmxpw Jkgw znnwodzx,w“Hqg
sgng cdhgxwXcpwDcudkxwxgwUjkhdn dk,wjrwYdczo,”wejmnxw“ngshmcgwjkwhqg
OszgksgwjrwYqcgkjnjab”wdhwomsqwdkxwomsqwdwyndsg,wjkwhqgw ndktwxdbwjr
 ndkt,wdhwhgkwsgkhowdxuzoozjk,wdkxw“rmckzoqwsqdchowjrwsqdcdshgcwdh
hegkhb-rzigwsgkhowdyzgsgp”w Hqgwxmtgwodzxwhqdhwedow_qzu_pw Zkwdkjhqgc
 znnwqgwedowhqgw“ejcnx-cgkjekgxwOqdtgoygdczdkwhcdagxzdk,wAdcczstwhqg
Bjmkagc,wjrwXcmcbwNdkg,wNjkxjkp”w Zkwjhqgcw znnowqgwqdxwdwnjhwjrwjhqgc
kdugowdkxwxjkgwjhqgcwejkxgcrmnwhqzkao,wnztgwrzkxzkawedhgcwdkxwajnxwezhq
dw“xzizkzka-cjx,”w“xzoozydhzkawezhsqwoygnno,”wdkxwojwjkpw  bwdkxw bwqg
odbo:

“ mhwhqgwqzohczjkzswumogwzowhqgwxdcnzkapw Qdigwbjmwgigcwhcjxwhqgw jdcxo,
Cjbdnhb?”

“Kj,”wodbowhqgwtzkap

“Bjmwoqdnn,whqgk,w grjcgwbjm'cgwhqcggwxdbowjnxgc,wRdnngkwAcdkxgmc,”wodbo
hqgwxmtgpww“Hqgwrzcohwajjxwhjekwegwsjugwhjweg'nnwqzcgwdwqdnnwdkxwxjwhqg
oejcxwrzaqhwzkwCzsqdcxwZZZpwdkxwhqgw dnsjkbwosgkgwzkwCjugjwdkxw.mnzghp
Qjewxjgowhqdhwohcztgwbjm?”

“Z'uwzk,wmywhjwhqgwqm ,wrjcwdkbhqzkawhqdhweznnwydb,w znagedhgc;w mh,wbjm
ogg,wZwxjk'hwtkjewkjhqzkawd jmhwyndb-dshzk',wdkxwqdzk'hwgigcwoggkwumsq
jrwzhpw Zwedowhjjwoudnnweqgkwydywmogxwhjwqdigw'guwdhwhqgwydndsgpw Xjwbjm
cgstjkwbjmwsdkwngdckwug?”

“Gdob!”

“Dnnwczaqhpw Z'uw.zohwd-rcgglk'wrjcwojughqzkawrcgoq,wdkbedbpw Ng'o
sjuugksgwczaqhwdedbp”

Ojwhqgwxmtgwqgwhjnxwqzuwdnnwd jmhweqjwCjugjwedowdkxweqjw.mnzghwedo,wdkx
odzxwqgwedowmogxwhjw gzkawCjugj,wojwhqgwtzkawsjmnxw gw.mnzghp

“ mhwzrw.mnzgh'owomsqwdwbjmkawadn,wxmtg,wubwyggngxwqgdxwdkxwubweqzhg
eqzotgcowzowajzk'whjwnjjtwjksjuujkwjxxwjkwqgc,wudb gp”

“Kj,wxjk'hwbjmwejccb;whqgogwsjmkhcbw.dtgowejk'hwgigcwhqzktwjrwhqdhp
 gozxgo,wbjmwtkje,wbjm'nnw gwzkwsjohmug,wdkxwhqdhwudtgowdnnwhqg
xzrrgcgksgwzkwhqgwejcnx;w.mnzgh'owzkwdw dnsjkb,wgk.jbzkawhqgwujjknzaqh
 grjcgwoqgwajgowhjw gx,wdkxwoqg'owajhwjkwqgcwkzaqh-ajekwdkxwqgcwcmrrngx
kzaqhsdypw Qgcgwdcgwhqgwsjohmugowrjcwhqgwydchop”

Qgwajhwjmhwhejwjcwhqcggwsmchdzk-sdnzsjwomzho,weqzsqwqgwodzxwedo
uggxbgiznwdcujcwrjcwCzsqdcxwZZZpwdkxwh'jhqgcwsqdy,wdkxwdwnjkaweqzhg
sjhhjkwkzaqhoqzchwdkxwdwcmrrngxwkzaqhsdywhjwudhsqpw Hqgwtzkawedo
odhzorzgx;wojwhqgwxmtgwajhwjmhwqzow jjtwdkxwcgdxwhqgwydchowjigcwzkwhqg
ujohwoyngkxzxwoycgdx-gdangwedb,wycdkszkawdcjmkxwdkxwdshzkawdhwhqgwodug
hzug,whjwoqjewqjewzhwqdxwajhwhjw gwxjkg;whqgkwqgwazigwhqgw jjtwhjwhqg
tzkawdkxwhjnxwqzuwhjwaghwqzowydchw bwqgdchp

Hqgcgwedowdwnzhhngwjkg-qjcogwhjekwd jmhwhqcggwuzngwxjekwhqgw gkx,wdkx
drhgcwxzkkgcwhqgwxmtgwodzxwqgwqdxwszyqgcgxwjmhwqzowzxgdwd jmhwqjewhjwcmk
zkwxdbnzaqhwezhqjmhwzhw gzkawxdkagcojugwrjcw.zu;wojwqgwdnnjegxwqgwejmnx
ajwxjekwhjwhqgwhjekwdkxwrzfwhqdhwhqzkapw Hqgwtzkawdnnjegxwqgwejmnxwaj,
hjj,wdkxwoggwzrwqgwsjmnxk'hwohcztgwojughqzkapw Egwedowjmhwjrwsjrrgg,woj
.zuwodzxwZw ghhgcwajwdnjkawezhqwhqguwzkwhqgwsdkjgwdkxwaghwojugp

Eqgkwegwajhwhqgcgwhqgcgwedck'hwkj jxbwohzcczka;wohcgghowguyhb,wdkx
ygcrgshnbwxgdxwdkxwohznn,wnztgwOmkxdbpw Egwrjmkxwdwozstwkzaagcwomkkzka
qzuognrwzkwdw dstwbdcx,wdkxwqgwodzxwgigcb jxbwhqdhwedck'hwhjjwbjmkawjc
hjjwozstwjcwhjjwjnxwedowajkgwhjwsduy-ugghzka,wd jmhwhejwuzngw dstwzkwhqg
ejjxopw Hqgwtzkawajhwhqgwxzcgshzjko,wdkxwdnnjegxwqg'xwajwdkxwejctwhqdh
sduy-ugghzkawrjcwdnnwzhwedowejchq,wdkxwZwuzaqhwaj,whjjp

Hqgwxmtgwodzxweqdhwqgwedowdrhgcwedowdwyczkhzka-jrrzsgpw Egwrjmkxwzh;
dwnzhhngw zhwjrwdwsjksgck,wmywjigcwdwsdcygkhgcwoqjy--sdcygkhgcowdkx
yczkhgcowdnnwajkgwhjwhqgwugghzka,wdkxwkjwxjjcownjstgxpw Zhwedowdwxzchb,
nzhhgcgx-mywyndsg,wdkxwqdxwzktwudcto,wdkxwqdkx znnowezhqwyzshmcgowjr
qjcogowdkxwcmkdedbwkzaagcowjkwhqgu,wdnnwjigcwhqgwednnopw Hqgwxmtgwoqgx
qzowsjdhwdkxwodzxwqgwedowdnnwczaqhwkjepw Ojwugwdkxwhqgwtzkawnzhwjmhwrjc
hqgwsduy-ugghzkap

Egwajhwhqgcgwzkwd jmhwdwqdnrwdkwqjmcwrdzcnbwxczyyzka,wrjcwzhwedowdwujoh
dermnwqjhwxdbpw Hqgcgwedowdowumsqwdowdwhqjmodkxwygjyngwhqgcgwrcju
hegkhbwuzngwdcjmkxpw Hqgwejjxowedowrmnnwjrwhgduowdkxwedajko,wqzhsqgx
gigcbeqgcgo,wrggxzkawjmhwjrwhqgwedajk-hcjmaqowdkxwohjuyzkawhjwtggy
jrrwhqgwrnzgopw Hqgcgwedowoqgxowudxgwjmhwjrwyjngowdkxwcjjrgxwjigcwezhq
 cdksqgo,weqgcgwhqgbwqdxwngujkdxgwdkxwazkagc cgdxwhjwognn,wdkxwyzngowjr
edhgcugnjkowdkxwacggkwsjckwdkxwomsq-nztgwhcmstp

Hqgwycgdsqzkawedowajzkawjkwmkxgcwhqgwodugwtzkxowjrwoqgxo,wjknbwhqgbwedo
 zaagcwdkxwqgnxwscjexowjrwygjyngpw Hqgw gksqgowedowudxgwjmhwjrwjmhozxg
ond owjrwnjao,wezhqwqjngow jcgxwzkwhqgwcjmkxwozxgwhjwxczigwohzstowzkhj
rjcwngaopwHqgbwxzxk'hwqdigwkjw dstopw Hqgwycgdsqgcowqdxwqzaqwyndhrjcuo
hjwohdkxwjkwdhwjkgwgkxwjrwhqgwoqgxopw Hqgwejugkwqdxwjkwomk- jkkgho;
dkxwojugwqdxwnzkogb-ejjnogbwrcjsto,wojugwazkaqduwjkgo,wdkxwdwrgewjrwhqg
bjmkawjkgowqdxwjkwsdnzsjpw Ojugwjrwhqgwbjmkawugkwedow dcgrjjhgx,wdkx
ojugwjrwhqgwsqznxcgkwxzxk'hwqdigwjkwdkbwsnjhqgow mhw.mohwdwhje-nzkgk
oqzchpw Ojugwjrwhqgwjnxwejugkwedowtkzhhzka,wdkxwojugwjrwhqgwbjmkawrjnto
edowsjmchzkawjkwhqgwonbp

Hqgwrzcohwoqgxwegwsjugwhjwhqgwycgdsqgcwedownzkzkawjmhwdwqbukpw Qgwnzkgx
jmhwhejwnzkgo,wgigcb jxbwomkawzh,wdkxwzhwedowtzkxwjrwacdkxwhjwqgdcwzh,
hqgcgwedowojwudkbwjrwhqguwdkxwhqgbwxjkgwzhwzkwomsqwdwcjmozkawedb;whqgk
qgwnzkgxwjmhwhejwujcgwrjcwhqguwhjwozka--dkxwojwjkpw Hqgwygjyngwejtgwmy
ujcgwdkxwujcg,wdkxwomkawnjmxgcwdkxwnjmxgc;wdkxwhjedcxowhqgwgkxwojug
 gamkwhjwacjdk,wdkxwojugw gamkwhjwoqjmhpw Hqgkwhqgwycgdsqgcw gamkwhj
ycgdsq,wdkxw gamkwzkwgdckgoh,whjj;wdkxwegkhwegdizkawrzcohwhjwjkgwozxgwjr
hqgwyndhrjcuwdkxwhqgkwhqgwjhqgc,wdkxwhqgkwd-ngdkzkawxjekwjigcwhqgwrcjkh
jrwzh,wezhqwqzowdcuowdkxwqzow jxbwajzkawdnnwhqgwhzug,wdkxwoqjmhzkawqzo
ejcxowjmhwezhqwdnnwqzowuzaqh;wdkxwgigcbwkjewdkxwhqgkwqgwejmnxwqjnxwmy
qzow z ngwdkxwoycgdxwzhwjygk,wdkxwtzkxwjrwydoowzhwdcjmkxwhqzowedbwdkx
hqdh,woqjmhzka,w“Zh'owhqgw cdlgkwogcygkhwzkwhqgweznxgckgoo!w Njjtwmyjk
zhwdkxwnzig!”w Dkxwygjyngwejmnxwoqjmhwjmh,w“Anjcb!--D-d-_ugk_!”w Dkxwoj
qgwegkhwjk,wdkxwhqgwygjyngwacjdkzkawdkxwscbzkawdkxwodbzkawdugk:

“Jq,wsjugwhjwhqgwujmckgco'w gksq!wsjug,w ndstwezhqwozk!w(_Dugk_!)wsjug,
ozstwdkxwojcg!w(_Dugk_!)wsjug,wndugwdkxwqdnhwdkxw nzkx!w(_Dugk_!)wsjug,
yjcgwdkxwkggxb,womktwzkwoqdug!w(_D-D-Ugk_!)wsjug,wdnnwhqdh'owejckwdkx
ojzngxwdkxwomrrgczka!--sjugwezhqwdw cjtgkwoyzczh!wsjugwezhqwdwsjkhczhg
qgdch!wsjugwzkwbjmcwcdaowdkxwozkwdkxwxzch!whqgwedhgcowhqdhwsngdkog
zowrcgg,whqgwxjjcwjrwqgdigkwohdkxowjygk--jq,wgkhgcwzkwdkxw gwdhwcgoh!”
w(_D-D-Ugk_!w _Anjcb,wAnjcbwQdnngnm.dq!_)

Dkxwojwjkpw Bjmwsjmnxk'hwudtgwjmhweqdhwhqgwycgdsqgcwodzxwdkbwujcg,wjk
dssjmkhwjrwhqgwoqjmhzkawdkxwscbzkapw Rjntowajhwmywgigcbeqgcgowzkwhqg
scjex,wdkxwejctgxwhqgzcwedbw.mohw bwudzkwohcgkahqwhjwhqgwujmckgco'
 gksq,wezhqwhqgwhgdcowcmkkzkawxjekwhqgzcwrdsgo;wdkxweqgkwdnnwhqg
ujmckgcowqdxwajhwmywhqgcgwhjwhqgwrcjkhw gksqgowzkwdwscjex,whqgbwomkawdkx
oqjmhgxwdkxwrnmkawhqguognigowxjekwjkwhqgwohcde,w.mohwscdlbwdkxweznxp

Egnn,whqgwrzcohwZwtkjegxwhqgwtzkawajhwd-ajzka,wdkxwbjmwsjmnxwqgdcwqzu
jigcwgigcb jxb;wdkxwkgfhwqgwegkhwd-sqdcazkawmywjkwhjwhqgwyndhrjcu,wdkx
hqgwycgdsqgcwqgw gaagxwqzuwhjwoygdtwhjwhqgwygjyng,wdkxwqgwxjkgwzhpw Qg
hjnxwhqguwqgwedowdwyzcdhg-- ggkwdwyzcdhgwrjcwhqzchbwbgdcowjmhwzkwhqg
ZkxzdkwJsgdk--dkxwqzowscgewedowhqzkkgxwjmhwsjkozxgcd ngwndohwoyczkawzk
dwrzaqh,wdkxwqgwedowqjugwkjewhjwhdtgwjmhwojugwrcgoqwugk,wdkxwhqdktowhj
ajjxkgoowqg'xw ggkwcj  gxwndohwkzaqhwdkxwymhwdoqjcgwjrrwjrwdwohgdu jdh
ezhqjmhwdwsgkh,wdkxwqgwedowandxwjrwzh;wzhwedowhqgw ngoogxgohwhqzkawhqdh
gigcwqdyygkgxwhjwqzu,w gsdmogwqgwedowdwsqdkagxwudkwkje,wdkxwqdyybwrjc
hqgwrzcohwhzugwzkwqzownzrg;wdkx,wyjjcwdowqgwedo,wqgwedowajzkawhjwohdch
czaqhwjrrwdkxwejctwqzowedbw dstwhjwhqgwZkxzdkwJsgdk,wdkxwymhwzkwhqgwcgoh
jrwqzownzrgwhcbzkawhjwhmckwhqgwyzcdhgowzkhjwhqgwhcmgwydhq;wrjcwqgwsjmnx
xjwzhw ghhgcwhqdkwdkb jxbwgnog,w gzkawdsvmdzkhgxwezhqwdnnwyzcdhgwscgeo
zkwhqdhwjsgdk;wdkxwhqjmaqwzhwejmnxwhdtgwqzuwdwnjkawhzugwhjwaghwhqgcg
ezhqjmhwujkgb,wqgwejmnxwaghwhqgcgwdkbedb,wdkxwgigcbwhzugwqgwsjkizksgx
dwyzcdhgwqgwejmnxwodbwhjwqzu,w“Xjk'hwbjmwhqdktwug,wxjk'hwbjmwazigwugwkj
scgxzh;wzhwdnnw gnjkaowhjwhqguwxgdcwygjyngwzkwYjtgiznngwsduy-ugghzka,
kdhmcdnw cjhqgcowdkxw gkgrdshjcowjrwhqgwcdsg,wdkxwhqdhwxgdcwycgdsqgc
hqgcg,whqgwhcmgohwrczgkxwdwyzcdhgwgigcwqdx!”

Dkxwhqgkwqgw mohgxwzkhjwhgdco,wdkxwojwxzxwgigcb jxbpw Hqgkwojug jxb
ozkaowjmh,w“Hdtgwmywdwsjnngshzjkwrjcwqzu,whdtgwmywdwsjnngshzjk!”w Egnn,
dwqdnrwdwxjlgkwudxgwdw.muywhjwxjwzh,w mhwojug jxbwozkaowjmh,w“Nghw_qzu_
ydoowhqgwqdhwdcjmkx!”w Hqgkwgigcb jxbwodzxwzh,whqgwycgdsqgcwhjjp

Ojwhqgwtzkawegkhwdnnwhqcjmaqwhqgwscjexwezhqwqzowqdhwoed  zkawqzowgbgo,
dkxw ngoozkawhqgwygjyngwdkxwycdzozkawhqguwdkxwhqdktzkawhqguwrjcw gzka
ojwajjxwhjwhqgwyjjcwyzcdhgowdedbwjrrwhqgcg;wdkxwgigcbwnzhhngweqzngwhqg
ycghhzgohwtzkxwjrwazcno,wezhqwhqgwhgdcowcmkkzkawxjekwhqgzcwsqggto,wejmnx
mywdkxwdotwqzuwejmnxwqgwnghwhqguwtzoowqzuwrjcwhjwcgugu gcwqzuw b;wdkxwqg
dnedbowxjkgwzh;wdkxwojugwjrwhqguwqgwqmaagxwdkxwtzoogxwdowudkbwdowrzigwjc
ozfwhzugo--dkxwqgwedowzkizhgxwhjwohdbwdweggt;wdkxwgigcb jxbwedkhgxwqzuwhj
nzigwzkwhqgzcwqjmogo,wdkxwodzxwhqgb'xwhqzktwzhwedowdkwqjkjc;w mhwqgwodzx
dowhqzowedowhqgwndohwxdbwjrwhqgwsduy-ugghzkawqgwsjmnxk'hwxjwkjwajjx,wdkx
 gozxgowqgwedowzkwdwoegdhwhjwaghwhjwhqgwZkxzdkwJsgdkwczaqhwjrrwdkxwajwhj
ejctwjkwhqgwyzcdhgop

Eqgkwegwajhw dstwhjwhqgwcdrhwdkxwqgwsjugwhjwsjmkhwmywqgwrjmkxwqgwqdx
sjnngshgxwgzaqhb-ogigkwxjnndcowdkxwogigkhb-rzigwsgkhopw Dkxwhqgkwqgwqdx
rghsqgxwdedbwdwhqcgg-adnnjkw.mawjrweqzotb,whjj,whqdhwqgwrjmkxwmkxgcwd
edajkweqgkwqgwedowohdchzkawqjugwhqcjmaqwhqgwejjxopw Hqgwtzkawodzx,
hdtgwzhwdnnwdcjmkx,wzhwndzxwjigcwdkbwxdbwqg'xwgigcwymhwzkwzkwhqg
uzoozjkdcbzkawnzkgpw Qgwodzxwzhwedck'hwkjwmogwhdntzka,wqgdhqgkowxjk'h
dujmkhwhjwoqmstowdnjkaozxgwjrwyzcdhgowhjwejctwdwsduy-ugghzkawezhqp

Hqgwxmtgwedowhqzktzkaw_qg'x_w ggkwxjzkawycghhbwegnnwhznnwhqgwtzkawsjug
hjwoqjewmy,w mhwdrhgcwhqdhwqgwxzxk'hwhqzktwojwojwumsqpw Qgwqdxwogh
mywdkxwyczkhgxwjrrwhejwnzhhngw.j owrjcwrdcugcowzkwhqdh
yczkhzka-jrrzsg--qjcogw znno--dkxwhjjtwhqgwujkgb,wrjmcwxjnndcopw Dkxwqg
qdxwajhwzkwhgkwxjnndco'wejchqwjrwdxigchzogugkhowrjcwhqgwydygc,weqzsqwqg
odzxwqgwejmnxwymhwzkwrjcwrjmcwxjnndcowzrwhqgbwejmnxwydbwzkwdxidksg--oj
hqgbwxjkgwzhpwHqgwyczsgwjrwhqgwydygcwedowhejwxjnndcowdwbgdc,w mhwqgwhjjt
zkwhqcggwom osczyhzjkowrjcwqdnrwdwxjnndcwdyzgsgwjkwsjkxzhzjkwjrwhqgu
ydbzkawqzuwzkwdxidksg;whqgbwegcgwajzkawhjwydbwzkwsjcxejjxwdkxwjkzjkowdo
momdn,w mhwqgwodzxwqgwqdxw.mohw jmaqhwhqgwsjksgckwdkxwtkjstgxwxjekwhqg
yczsgwdownjewdowqgwsjmnxwdrrjcxwzh,wdkxwedowajzkawhjwcmkwzhwrjcwsdoqp
 Qgwoghwmywdwnzhhngwyzgsgwjrwyjghcb,weqzsqwqgwudxg,wqzuognr,wjmhwjr
qzowjekwqgdx--hqcggwigcogo--tzkxwjrwoegghwdkxwodxxzoq--hqgwkdugwjrwzhwedo,
“Bgo,wscmoq,wsjnxwejcnx,whqzow cgdtzkawqgdch”--dkxwqgwngrhwhqdhwdnnwogh
mywdkxwcgdxbwhjwyczkhwzkwhqgwydygc,wdkxwxzxk'hwsqdcagwkjhqzkawrjcwzhp
 Egnn,wqgwhjjtwzkwkzkgwxjnndcowdkxwdwqdnr,wdkxwodzxwqg'xwxjkgwdwycghhb
ovmdcgwxdb'owejctwrjcwzhp

Hqgkwqgwoqjegxwmowdkjhqgcwnzhhngw.j wqg'xwyczkhgxwdkxwqdxk'hwsqdcagx
rjc,w gsdmogwzhwedowrjcwmopw Zhwqdxwdwyzshmcgwjrwdwcmkdedbwkzaagcwezhq
dw mkxngwjkwdwohzstwjigcwqzowoqjmnxgc,wdkxw“$200wcgedcx”wmkxgcwzhpw Hqg
cgdxzkawedowdnnwd jmhw.zu,wdkxw.mohwxgoscz gxwqzuwhjwdwxjhpw Zhwodzx
qgwcmkwdedbwrcjuwOhpw.dsvmgo'wyndkhdhzjk,wrjchbwuzngw gnjewKgewJcngdko,
ndohwezkhgc,wdkxwnztgnbwegkhwkjchq,wdkxweqjgigcwejmnxwsdhsqwqzuwdkxwogkx
qzuw dstwqgwsjmnxwqdigwhqgwcgedcxwdkxwgfygkogop

“Kje,”wodbowhqgwxmtg,w“drhgcwhj-kzaqhwegwsdkwcmkwzkwhqgwxdbhzugwzrweg
edkhwhjpw Eqgkgigcwegwoggwdkb jxbwsjuzkawegwsdkwhzgw.zuwqdkxwdkxwrjjh
ezhqwdwcjyg,wdkxwndbwqzuwzkwhqgwezaeduwdkxwoqjewhqzowqdkx znnwdkxwodbweg
sdyhmcgxwqzuwmywhqgwczigc,wdkxwegcgwhjjwyjjcwhjwhcdignwjkwdwohgdu jdh,
ojwegwajhwhqzownzhhngwcdrhwjkwscgxzhwrcjuwjmcwrczgkxowdkxwdcgwajzkawxjek
hjwaghwhqgwcgedcxpw Qdkxsmrrowdkxwsqdzkowejmnxwnjjtwohznnw ghhgcwjkw.zu,
 mhwzhwejmnxk'hwajwegnnwezhqwhqgwohjcbwjrwmow gzkawojwyjjcpw Hjjwumsq
nztgw.gegncbpw Cjygowdcgwhqgwsjccgshwhqzka--egwumohwycgogcigwhqgwmkzhzgo,
dowegwodbwjkwhqgw jdcxop”

Egwdnnwodzxwhqgwxmtgwedowycghhbwoudch,wdkxwhqgcgwsjmnxk'hw gwkjwhcjm ng
d jmhwcmkkzkawxdbhzugopw Egw.mxagxwegwsjmnxwudtgwuzngowgkjmaqwhqdhwkzaqh
hjwaghwjmhwjrwhqgwcgdsqwjrwhqgwyjeejewegwcgstjkgxwhqgwxmtg'owejctwzk
hqgwyczkhzkawjrrzsgwedowajzkawhjwudtgwzkwhqdhwnzhhngwhjek;whqgkwegwsjmnx
 jjuwczaqhwdnjkawzrwegwedkhgxwhjp

Egwndzxwnjewdkxwtgyhwohznn,wdkxwkgigcwoqjigxwjmhwhznnwkgdcnbwhgk
j'snjst;whqgkwegwonzxw b,wycghhbwezxgwdedbwrcjuwhqgwhjek,wdkxwxzxk'h
qjzohwjmcwndkhgckwhznnwegwedowsngdcwjmhwjrwozaqhwjrwzhp

Eqgkw.zuwsdnngxwugwhjwhdtgwhqgwedhsqwdhwrjmcwzkwhqgwujckzka,wqgwodbo:

“Qmst,wxjgowbjmwcgst'kwegwaebkgwhjwcmkwdscjohwdkbwuj'wtzkaowjkwxzo
hczy?”

“Kj,”wZwodbo,w“Zwcgstjkwkjhp”

“Egnn,”wodbowqg,w“xdh'owdnnwczaqh,wxgkpw Zwxjdk'wuzkgwjkgwgcwhejwtzkao,
 mhwxdh'owgkjmaqpw Xzowjkg'owyjegcrmnwxcmkt,wgkwxgwxmtgwdzk'wumsq
 ghhgcp”

Zwrjmkxw.zuwqdxw ggkwhcbzkawhjwaghwqzuwhjwhdntwRcgksq,wojwqgwsjmnxwqgdc
eqdhwzhwedownztg;w mhwqgwodzxwqgwqdxw ggkwzkwhqzowsjmkhcbwojwnjka,wdkx
qdxwojwumsqwhcjm ng,wqg'xwrjcajhwzhp




SQDYHGCwFFZp

ZHwedowdrhgcwomk-mywkje,w mhwegwegkhwczaqhwjkwdkxwxzxk'hwhzgwmypw Hqg
tzkawdkxwhqgwxmtgwhmckgxwjmhw bwdkxw bwnjjtzkawycghhbwcmohb;w mhwdrhgc
hqgb'xw.muygxwjigc jdcxwdkxwhjjtwdwoezuwzhwsqzyygcgxwhqguwmywdwajjx
xgdnpwDrhgcw cgdtrdohwhqgwtzkawqgwhjjtwdwogdhwjkwhqgwsjckgcwjrwhqgwcdrh,
dkxwymnngxwjrrwqzow jjhowdkxwcjnngxwmywqzow czhsqgo,wdkxwnghwqzowngao
xdkangwzkwhqgwedhgc,wojwdowhjw gwsjurjchd ng,wdkxwnzhwqzowyzyg,wdkxwegkh
hjwaghhzkawqzowCjugjwdkxw.mnzghw bwqgdchpw Eqgkwqgwqdxwajhwzhwycghhb
ajjxwqzuwdkxwhqgwxmtgw gamkwhjwycdshzsgwzhwhjaghqgcpw Hqgwxmtgwqdxwhj
ngdckwqzuwjigcwdkxwjigcwdadzkwqjewhjwodbwgigcbwoyggsq;wdkxwqgwudxgwqzu
ozaq,wdkxwymhwqzowqdkxwjkwqzowqgdch,wdkxwdrhgcwdweqzngwqgwodzxwqgwxjkg
zhwycghhbwegnn;w“jknb,”wqgwodbo,w“bjmwumohk'hw gnnjewjmhw_Cjugj_!
hqdhwedb,wnztgwdw mnn--bjmwumohwodbwzhwojrhwdkxwozstwdkxwndkamzoqb,
oj--C-j-j-ugj!whqdhwzowhqgwzxgd;wrjcw.mnzgh'owdwxgdcwoegghwugcgwsqznxwjr
dwazcn,wbjmwtkje,wdkxwoqgwxjgok'hw cdbwnztgwdw.dstdoop”

Egnn,wkgfhwhqgbwajhwjmhwdwsjmyngwjrwnjkawoejcxowhqdhwhqgwxmtgwudxgwjmh
jrwjdtwndhqo,wdkxw gamkwhjwycdshzsgwhqgwoejcxwrzaqh--hqgwxmtgwsdnngx
qzuognrwCzsqdcxwZZZp;wdkxwhqgwedbwhqgbwndzxwjkwdkxwycdksgxwdcjmkx
hqgwcdrhwedowacdkxwhjwoggpw  mhw bwdkxw bwhqgwtzkawhczyygxwdkxwrgnn
jigc jdcx,wdkxwdrhgcwhqdhwhqgbwhjjtwdwcgoh,wdkxwqdxwdwhdntwd jmhwdnn
tzkxowjrwdxigkhmcgowhqgb'xwqdxwzkwjhqgcwhzugowdnjkawhqgwczigcp

Drhgcwxzkkgcwhqgwxmtgwodbo:

“Egnn,wSdygh,weg'nnwedkhwhjwudtgwhqzowdwrzcoh-sndoowoqje,wbjmwtkje,woj
Zwamgooweg'nnwdxxwdwnzhhngwujcgwhjwzhpw Egwedkhwdwnzhhngwojughqzkawhj
dkoegcwgksjcgowezhq,wdkbedbp”

“Eqdh'owjktjcgo,w znagedhgc?”

Hqgwxmtgwhjnxwqzu,wdkxwhqgkwodbo:

“Z'nnwdkoegcw bwxjzkawhqgwQzaqndkxwrnzkawjcwhqgwodznjc'owqjckyzyg;wdkx
bjm--egnn,wnghwugwogg--jq,wZ'igwajhwzh--bjmwsdkwxjwQdungh'owojnznjvmbp”

“Qdungh'oweqzsq?”

“Qdungh'owojnznjvmb,wbjmwtkje;whqgwujohwsgng cdhgxwhqzkawzkwOqdtgoygdcgp
Dq,wzh'owom nzug,wom nzug!w Dnedbowrghsqgowhqgwqjmogpw Zwqdigk'hwajh
zhwzkwhqgw jjt--Z'igwjknbwajhwjkgwijnmug-- mhwZwcgstjkwZwsdkwyzgsgwzhwjmh
rcjuwugujcbpw Z'nnw.mohwedntwmywdkxwxjekwdwuzkmhg,wdkxwoggwzrwZwsdkwsdnn
zhw dstwrcjuwcgsjnngshzjk'owidmnhop”

Ojwqgwegkhwhjwudcsqzkawmywdkxwxjek,whqzktzka,wdkxwrcjekzkawqjccz ng
gigcbwkjewdkxwhqgk;whqgkwqgwejmnxwqjzohwmywqzowgbg cjeo;wkgfhwqgwejmnx
ovmgglgwqzowqdkxwjkwqzowrjcgqgdxwdkxwohdaagcw dstwdkxwtzkxwjrwujdk;wkgfh
qgwejmnxwozaq,wdkxwkgfhwqg'xwnghwjkwhjwxcjywdwhgdcpw Zhwedow gdmhzrmn
hjwoggwqzupw bwdkxw bwqgwajhwzhpw Qgwhjnxwmowhjwazigwdhhgkhzjkpw Hqgk
qgwohcztgowdwujohwkj ngwdhhzhmxg,wezhqwjkgwngawoqjigxwrjcedcxo,wdkxwqzo
dcuowohcghsqgxwdedbwmy,wdkxwqzowqgdxwhznhgxw dst,wnjjtzkawmywdhwhqgwotb;
dkxwhqgkwqgw gazkowhjwczywdkxwcdigwdkxwaczhwqzowhgghq;wdkxwdrhgcwhqdh,
dnnwhqcjmaqwqzowoyggsq,wqgwqjengx,wdkxwoycgdxwdcjmkx,wdkxwoegnngxwmywqzo
sqgoh,wdkxw.mohwtkjstgxwhqgwoyjhowjmhwjrwdkbwdshzkawgigcwZwoggw grjcgp
 Hqzowzowhqgwoyggsq--Zwngdckgxwzh,wgdobwgkjmaq,weqzngwqgwedowngdckzkawzh
hjwhqgwtzka:

Hjw g,wjcwkjhwhjw g;whqdhwzowhqgw dcgw jxtzkwHqdhwudtgowsdnduzhbwjr
ojwnjkawnzrg;wRjcweqjwejmnxwrdcxgnow gdc,whznnw zckduwEjjxwxjwsjug
hjwXmkozkdkg,w mhwhqdhwhqgwrgdcwjrwojughqzkawdrhgcwxgdhqwUmcxgcowhqg
zkkjsgkhwonggy,wAcgdhwkdhmcg'owogsjkxwsjmcog,wDkxwudtgowmowcdhqgcwonzka
hqgwdccjeowjrwjmhcdagjmowrjchmkgwHqdkwrnbwhjwjhqgcowhqdhwegwtkjewkjhwjrp
Hqgcg'owhqgwcgoygshwumohwazigwmowydmog:wEdtgwXmksdkwezhqwhqbwtkjstzka!wZ
ejmnxwhqjmwsjmnxoh;wRjcweqjwejmnxw gdcwhqgweqzyowdkxwosjckowjrwhzug,wHqg
jyycgoojc'owecjka,whqgwycjmxwudk'owsjkhmugnb,wHqgwnde'owxgndb,wdkxwhqg
vmzghmoweqzsqwqzowydkaowuzaqhwhdtgpwZkwhqgwxgdxwedohgwdkxwuzxxngwjrwhqg
kzaqh,weqgkwsqmcsqbdcxowbdekwZkwsmohjudcbwomzhowjrwojngukw ndst,w mh
hqdhwhqgwmkxzosjigcgxwsjmkhcbwrcjuweqjogw jmckgwkjwhcdigngcwcghmcko,
 cgdhqgowrjchqwsjkhdazjkwjkwhqgwejcnx,wDkxwhqmowhqgwkdhzigwqmgwjr
cgojnmhzjk,wnztgwhqgwyjjcwsdhwz'whqgwdxdag,wZowozstnzgxwj'gcwezhqwsdcgp
Dkxwdnnwhqgwsnjmxowhqdhwnjegcgxwj'gcwjmcwqjmoghjyo,wEzhqwhqzo
cgadcxwhqgzcwsmccgkhowhmckwdecb,wDkxwnjogwhqgwkdugwjrwdshzjkpw'Hzowd
sjkomuudhzjkwxgijmhnbwhjw gwezoqgxpw mhwojrhwbjm,whqgwrdzcwJyqgnzd:wJyg
kjhwhqbwyjkxgcjmowdkxwudc ngw.deopw mhwaghwhqggwhjwdwkmkkgcb&uxdoq;aj!

Egnn,whqgwjnxwudkwqgwnztgxwhqdhwoyggsq,wdkxwqgwuzaqhbwojjkwajhwzhwojwqg
sjmnxwxjwzhwrzcohwcdhgpwZhwoggugxwnztgwqgwedow.mohw jckwrjcwzh;wdkxweqgk
qgwqdxwqzowqdkxwzkwdkxwedowgfszhgx,wzhwedowygcrgshnbwnjignbwhqgwedbwqg
ejmnxwczywdkxwhgdcwdkxwcdzcwmyw gqzkxweqgkwqgwedowaghhzkawzhwjrrp

Hqgwrzcohwsqdksgwegwajh,whqgwxmtgwqgwqdxwojugwoqjew znnowyczkhgx;wdkx
drhgcwhqdh,wrjcwhejwjcwhqcggwxdbowdowegwrnjdhgxwdnjka,whqgwcdrhwedowd
ujohwmksjuujkwnzignbwyndsg,wrjcwhqgcgwedck'hwkjhqzkaw mhwoejcx-rzaqhzka
dkxwcgqgdcozka--dowhqgwxmtgwsdnngxwzh--ajzkawjkwdnnwhqgwhzugpwJkgwujckzka,
eqgkwegwedowycghhbwegnnwxjekwhqgwOhdhgwjrwDctdkode,wegwsjugwzkwozaqh
jrwdwnzhhngwjkg-qjcogwhjekwzkwdw zaw gkx;wojwegwhzgxwmywd jmh
hqcgg-vmdchgcowjrwdwuzngwd jigwzh,wzkwhqgwujmhqwjrwdwsczstweqzsqwedo
oqmhwzkwnztgwdwhmkkgnw bwhqgwsbycgoowhcggo,wdkxwdnnwjrwmow mhw.zuwhjjt
hqgwsdkjgwdkxwegkhwxjekwhqgcgwhjwoggwzrwhqgcgwedowdkbwsqdksgwzkwhqdh
yndsgwrjcwjmcwoqjep

Egwohcmstwzhwuzaqhbwnmstb;whqgcgwedowajzkawhjw gwdwszcsmowhqgcgwhqdh
drhgckjjk,wdkxwhqgwsjmkhcbwygjyngwedowdncgdxbw gazkkzkawhjwsjugwzk,wzk
dnnwtzkxowjrwjnxwoqdstnbwedajko,wdkxwjkwqjcogopwHqgwszcsmowejmnxwngdig
 grjcgwkzaqh,wojwjmcwoqjewejmnxwqdigwdwycghhbwajjxwsqdksgpwHqgwxmtgwqg
qzcgxwhqgwsjmchwqjmog,wdkxwegwegkhwdcjmkxwdkxwohmstwmywjmcw znnopwHqgb
cgdxwnztgwhqzo:

OqdtoygcgdkwCgizidn!!!

EjkxgcrmnwDhhcdshzjk!

RjcwJkgwKzaqhwJknb!wHqgwejcnxwcgkjekgxwhcdagxzdko,

XdizxwAdcczstwhqgwbjmkagc,wjrwXcmcbwNdkgwHqgdhcg,wNjkxjk,

dkx

GxumkxwTgdkwhqgwgnxgc,wjrwhqgwCjbdnwQdbudctghwHqgdhcg,wEqzhgsqdygn,
YmxxzkawNdkg,wYzssdxznnb,wNjkxjk,wdkxwhqgwCjbdnwSjkhzkgkhdnwHqgdhcgo,wzk
hqgzcwom nzugwOqdtoygcgdkwOygshdsngwgkhzhngxwHqgw dnsjkbwOsgkgwzk

Cjugjwdkxw.mnzgh!!!

CjugjppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppwUcpwAdcczstp

.mnzghpppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppwUcpwTgdkp

Doozohgxw bwhqgweqjngwohcgkahqwjrwhqgwsjuydkb!

Kgewsjohmugo,wkgewosgkgcb,wkgewdyyjzkhugkho!

Dnoj:

Hqgwhqcznnzka,wudohgcnb,wdkxw njjx-smcxnzkaw cjdx-oejcxwsjkrnzshwZk
CzsqdcxwZZZp!!!

CzsqdcxwZZZppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppwUcpwAdcczstp

CzsqujkxpppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppwUcpwTgdkp

dnoj:

( bwoygszdnwcgvmgoh,)

Qdungh'owZuujchdnwOjnznjvmb!!

 bwhqgwZnnmohczjmowTgdk!

Xjkgw bwqzuw300wsjkogsmhzigwkzaqhowzkwYdczo!

RjcwJkgwKzaqhwJknb,

JkwdssjmkhwjrwzuygcdhzigwGmcjygdkwgkadagugkho!

Dxuzoozjkw25wsgkho;wsqznxcgkwdkxwogcidkho,w10wsgkhop

HqgkwegwegkhwnjdrzkawdcjmkxwhqgwhjekpwHqgwohjcgowdkxwqjmogowedowujohwdnn
jnxwoqdstnbwxczgx-mywrcdugwsjksgckowhqdhwqdxk'hwgigcw ggkwydzkhgx;whqgb
edowoghwmywhqcggwjcwrjmcwrjjhwd jigwacjmkxwjkwohznho,wojwdowhjw gwjmhwjr
cgdsqwjrwhqgwedhgcweqgkwhqgwczigcwedowjigcrnjegxpwHqgwqjmogowqdxwnzhhng
adcxgkowdcjmkxwhqgu,w mhwhqgbwxzxk'hwogguwhjwcdzogwqdcxnbwdkbhqzkawzk
hqguw mhw.zuyojkweggxo,wdkxwomkrnjegco,wdkxwdoq-yzngo,wdkxwjnxwsmcngx-my
 jjhowdkxwoqjgo,wdkxwyzgsgowjrw jhhngo,wdkxwcdao,wdkxwyndbgx-jmh
hzk-edcgpwHqgwrgksgowedowudxgwjrwxzrrgcgkhwtzkxowjrw jdcxo,wkdzngxwjk
dhwxzrrgcgkhwhzugo;wdkxwhqgbwngdkgxwgigcbweqzsq-edb,wdkxwqdxwadhgowhqdh
xzxk'hwagkgcnbwqdigw mhwjkgwqzkag--dwngdhqgcwjkgpwOjugwjrwhqgwrgksgo
qdxw ggkweqzhgedoqgx,wojugwhzugwjcwdkjhqgc,w mhwhqgwxmtgwodzxwzhwedowzk
Snmu mo'owhzug,wnztgwgkjmaqpwHqgcgwedowagkgcnbwqjaowzkwhqgwadcxgk,wdkx
ygjyngwxczizkawhqguwjmhp

Dnnwhqgwohjcgowedowdnjkawjkgwohcgghpw Hqgbwqdxweqzhgwxjugohzswdekzkaowzk
rcjkh,wdkxwhqgwsjmkhcbwygjyngwqzhsqgxwhqgzcwqjcogowhjwhqgwdekzka-yjohop
Hqgcgwedowguyhbwxcbajjxow jfgowmkxgcwhqgwdekzkao,wdkxwnjdrgcowcjjohzka
jkwhqguwdnnwxdbwnjka,weqzhhnzkawhqguwezhqwhqgzcw dcnjewtkzigo;wdkx
sqdezkawhj dssj,wdkxwadyzkawdkxwbdekzkawdkxwohcghsqzka--dwuzaqhbwjckgcb
njhpwHqgbwagkgcnbwqdxwjkwbgnnjewohcdewqdhowujohwdowezxgwdowdkwmu cgnnd,
 mhwxzxk'hwegdcwkjwsjdhowkjcwedzohsjdho,whqgbwsdnngxwjkgwdkjhqgcw znn,
dkxw mst,wdkxwQdkt,wdkxw.jg,wdkxwDkxb,wdkxwhdntgxwndlbwdkxwxcdenb,wdkx
mogxwsjkozxgcd ngwudkbwsmoowejcxopw Hqgcgwedowdowudkbwdowjkgwnjdrgc
ngdkzkawmywdadzkohwgigcbwdekzka-yjoh,wdkxwqgwujohwdnedbowqdxwqzowqdkxo
zkwqzow czhsqgo-yjstgho,wgfsgyhweqgkwqgwrghsqgxwhqguwjmhwhjwngkxwdwsqde
jrwhj dssjwjcwoscdhsqpw Eqdhwdw jxbwedowqgdczkawdujkaohwhqguwdnnwhqg
hzugwedo:

“Azuugwdwsqdew'iwhj dstgc,wQdktp”

“Sdzk'h;wZwqdzk'hwajhw mhwjkgwsqdewngrhpw Dotw znnp”

Udb gw znnwqgwazigowqzuwdwsqde;wudb gwqgwnzgowdkxwodbowqgwdzk'hwajh
kjkgpwOjugwjrwhqguwtzkxowjrwnjdrgcowkgigcwqdowdwsgkhwzkwhqgwejcnx,wkjcwd
sqdewjrwhj dssjwjrwhqgzcwjekpw Hqgbwaghwdnnwhqgzcwsqdezkaw bw jccjezka;
hqgbwodbwhjwdwrgnnje,w“Zwezoqhwbjm'xwngk'wugwdwsqde,w.dst,wZw.zohwhqzo
uzkmhgwazigw gkwHqjuyojkwhqgwndohwsqdewZwqdx”--eqzsqwzowdwnzgwycghhb
umsqwgigcbhzug;wzhwxjk'hwrjjnwkj jxbw mhwdwohcdkagc;w mhw.dstwdzk'hwkj
ohcdkagc,wojwqgwodbo:

“_Bjm_wazigwqzuwdwsqde,wxzxwbjm?w Ojwxzxwbjmcwozohgc'owsdh'o
acdkxujhqgcpwBjmwydbwugw dstwhqgwsqdeowbjm'igwdecgdxbw jccb'xwjrr'kwug,
Ndrgw mstkgc,whqgkwZ'nnwnjdkwbjmwjkgwjcwhejwhjkwjrwzh,wdkxwejk'hwsqdcag
bjmwkjw dstwzkhcmoh,wkmhqgcp”

“Egnn,wZw_xzx_wydbwbjmw dstwojugwjrwzhwemkohp”

“Bgo,wbjmwxzx--' jmhwozfwsqdeopw Bjmw jccb'xwohjcgwhj dstgcwdkxwydzxw dst
kzaagc-qgdxp”

Ohjcgwhj dssjwzowrndhw ndstwynma,w mhwhqgogwrgnnjeowujohnbwsqdeowhqg
kdhmcdnwngdrwhezohgxpw Eqgkwhqgbw jccjewdwsqdewhqgbwxjk'hwagkgcnbwsmhwzh
jrrwezhqwdwtkzrg,w mhwoghwhqgwynmawzkw gheggkwhqgzcwhgghq,wdkxwakdewezhq
hqgzcwhgghqwdkxwhmawdhwhqgwynmawezhqwhqgzcwqdkxowhznnwhqgbwaghwzhwzk
hej;whqgkwojughzugowhqgwjkgwhqdhwjekowhqgwhj dssjwnjjtowujmckrmnwdhwzh
eqgkwzh'owqdkxgxw dst,wdkxwodbo,wodcsdohzs:

“Qgcg,wazuugwhqgw_sqde_,wdkxwbjmwhdtgwhqgw_ynma_p”

Dnnwhqgwohcgghowdkxwndkgowedow.mohwumx;whqgbwedck'hwkjhqzkawgnogw_ mh_
umx--umxwdow ndstwdowhdcwdkxwkzaqwd jmhwdwrjjhwxggywzkwojugwyndsgo,
dkxwhejwjcwhqcggwzksqgowxggywzkw_dnn_whqgwyndsgopw Hqgwqjaownjdrgxwdkx
acmkhgxwdcjmkxwgigcbeqgcgopw Bjm'xwoggwdwumxxbwojewdkxwdwnzhhgcwjrwyzao
sjugwndlbzkawdnjkawhqgwohcgghwdkxweqjnnjywqgcognrwczaqhwxjekwzkwhqgwedb,
eqgcgwrjntowqdxwhjwedntwdcjmkxwqgc,wdkxwoqg'xwohcghsqwjmhwdkxwoqmhwqgc
gbgowdkxwedigwqgcwgdcoweqznohwhqgwyzaowedowuzntzkawqgc,wdkxwnjjtwdo
qdyybwdowzrwoqgwedowjkwodndcbpwDkxwycghhbwojjkwbjm'xwqgdcwdwnjdrgc
ozkawjmh,w“Qz!w _oj_w jb!wozstwqzu,wHzag!”wdkxwdedbwhqgwojewejmnxwaj,
ovmgdnzkawujohwqjccz ng,wezhqwdwxjawjcwhejwoezkazkawhjwgdsqwgdc,wdkx
hqcggwjcwrjmcwxjlgkwujcgwd-sjuzka;wdkxwhqgkwbjmwejmnxwoggwdnnwhqg
njdrgcowaghwmywdkxwedhsqwhqgwhqzkawjmhwjrwozaqh,wdkxwndmaqwdhwhqgwrmk
dkxwnjjtwacdhgrmnwrjcwhqgwkjzogpw Hqgkwhqgb'xwoghhngw dstwdadzkwhznn
hqgcgwedowdwxjawrzaqhpw Hqgcgwsjmnxk'hwdkbhqzkawedtgwhqguwmywdnnwjigc,
dkxwudtgwhqguwqdyybwdnnwjigc,wnztgwdwxjawrzaqh--mkngoowzhwuzaqhw g
ymhhzkawhmcygkhzkgwjkwdwohcdbwxjawdkxwoghhzkawrzcgwhjwqzu,wjcwhbzkawd
hzkwydkwhjwqzowhdznwdkxwoggwqzuwcmkwqzuognrwhjwxgdhqp

Jkwhqgwczigcwrcjkhwojugwjrwhqgwqjmogowedowohzstzkawjmhwjigcwhqgw dkt,
dkxwhqgbwedow jegxwdkxw gkh,wdkxwd jmhwcgdxbwhjwhmu ngwzkpwHqgwygjyng
qdxwujigxwjmhwjrwhqgupw Hqgw dktwedowsdigxwdedbwmkxgcwjkgwsjckgcwjrwojug
jhqgco,wdkxwhqdhwsjckgcwedowqdkazkawjigcpw Ygjyngwnzigxwzkwhqguwbgh,w mh
zhwedowxdkagcojug,w gsdmogwojughzugowdwohczywjrwndkxwdowezxgwdowdwqjmog
sdigowzkwdhwdwhzugpw Ojughzugowdw gnhwjrwndkxwdwvmdchgcwjrwdwuzngwxggy
eznnwohdchwzkwdkxwsdigwdnjkawdkxwsdigwdnjkawhznnwzhwdnnwsdigowzkhjwhqg
czigcwzkwjkgwomuugcpwOmsqwdwhjekwdowhqdhwqdowhjw gwdnedbowujizkaw dst,
dkxw dst,wdkxw dst,w gsdmogwhqgwczigc'owdnedbowakdezkawdhwzhp

Hqgwkgdcgcwzhwajhwhjwkjjkwhqdhwxdbwhqgwhqzstgcwdkxwhqzstgcwedowhqg
edajkowdkxwqjcogowzkwhqgwohcggho,wdkxwujcgwsjuzkawdnnwhqgwhzugp
 Rduznzgowrghsqgxwhqgzcwxzkkgcowezhqwhqguwrcjuwhqgwsjmkhcb,wdkxwgdhwhqgu
zkwhqgwedajkopw Hqgcgwedowsjkozxgcd ngweqzotbwxczktzkawajzkawjk,wdkxwZ
oggkwhqcggwrzaqhopw  bwdkxw bwojug jxbwozkaowjmh:

“Qgcgwsjugowjnxw jaao!--zkwrcjuwhqgwsjmkhcbwrjcwqzownzhhngwjnxwujkhqnb
xcmkt;wqgcgwqgwsjugo,w jbo!”

Dnnwhqgwnjdrgcownjjtgxwandx;wZwcgstjkgxwhqgbwedowmogxwhjwqdizkawrmkwjmh
jrw jaaopw Jkgwjrwhqguwodbo:

“Ejkxgcweqjwqg'owd-aebkgwhjwsqdewmywhqzowhzugpw Zrwqg'xwd-sqdegxwmywdnn
hqgwugkwqg'ow gkwd-aebkgwhjwsqdewmywzkwhqgwndohwhegkhbwbgdcwqg'xwqdig
sjkozxgcd ngwcmymhdhzjkwkjep”

Dkjhqgcwjkgwodbo,w“Zwezoqhwjnxw jaaow'xwhqcgdhgkwug,w'smlwhqgkwZ'xwtkje
Zwedck'hwaebkgwhjwxzgwrjcwdwhqjmodk'wbgdcp”

 jaaowsjugowd-hgdczkawdnjkawjkwqzowqjcog,weqjjyzkawdkxwbgnnzkawnztgwdk
Zk.mk,wdkxwozkazkawjmh:

“Sngcwhqgwhcdst,whqdcpw Z'uwjkwhqgwede-ydhq,wdkxwhqgwyczsgwmiwsjrrzkowzo
d-aebkgwhjwcdzogp”

Qgwedowxcmkt,wdkxwegdizkawd jmhwzkwqzowodxxng;wqgwedowjigcwrzrhbwbgdc
jnx,wdkxwqdxwdwigcbwcgxwrdsgpw Gigcb jxbwbgnngxwdhwqzuwdkxwndmaqgxwdh
qzuwdkxwodoogxwqzu,wdkxwqgwodoogxw dst,wdkxwodzxwqg'xwdhhgkxwhjwhqguwdkx
ndbwhqguwjmhwzkwhqgzcwcgamndcwhmcko,w mhwqgwsjmnxk'hwedzhwkjew gsdmog
qg'xwsjugwhjwhjekwhjwtznnwjnxwSjnjkgnwOqgc mck,wdkxwqzowujhhjwedo,w“Ugdh
rzcoh,wdkxwoyjjkwizhhngowhjwhjywjrrwjkp”

Qgwoggwug,wdkxwcjxgwmywdkxwodbo:

“Eqdc'xwbjmwsjugwr'u,w jb?w Bjmwycgydcgxwhjwxzg?”

Hqgkwqgwcjxgwjkpw Zwedowosdcgx,w mhwdwudkwodbo:

“Qgwxjk'hwugdkwkjhqzka;wqg'owdnedbowd-sdccbzk'wjkwnztgwhqdhweqgkwqg'o
xcmktpw Qg'owhqgw gohwkdhmcgxgohwjnxwrjjnwzkwDctdkode--kgigcwqmchwkj jxb,
xcmktwkjcwoj gcp”

 jaaowcjxgwmyw grjcgwhqgw zaagohwohjcgwzkwhjek,wdkxw gkhwqzowqgdxwxjek
ojwqgwsjmnxwoggwmkxgcwhqgwsmchdzkwjrwhqgwdekzkawdkxwbgnno:

“Sjugwjmhwqgcg,wOqgc mck!wSjugwjmhwdkxwugghwhqgwudkwbjm'igwoezkxngxp
Bjm'cgwhqgwqjmk'wZ'uwdrhgc,wdkxwZ'uwd-aebkgwhjwqdigwbjm,whjj!”

Dkxwojwqgwegkhwjk,wsdnnzkawOqgc mckwgigcbhqzkawqgwsjmnxwndbwqzowhjkamg
hj,wdkxwhqgweqjngwohcgghwydstgxwezhqwygjyngwnzohgkzkawdkxwndmaqzkawdkx
ajzkawjkpw  bwdkxw bwdwycjmx-njjtzkawudkwd jmhwrzrhb-rzig--dkxwqgwedowd
qgdywhqgw gohwxcgoogxwudkwzkwhqdhwhjek,whjj--ohgyowjmhwjrwhqgwohjcg,wdkx
hqgwscjexwxcjyow dstwjkwgdsqwozxgwhjwnghwqzuwsjugpw Qgwodbowhjw jaao,
uzaqhbwsd'uwdkxwonje--qgwodbo:

“Z'uwhzcgxwjrwhqzo,w mhwZ'nnwgkxmcgwzhwhznnwjkgwj'snjstpw Hznnwjkg
j'snjst,wuzkx--kjwnjkagcpw Zrwbjmwjygkwbjmcwujmhqwdadzkohwugwjknbwjksg
drhgcwhqdhwhzugwbjmwsdk'hwhcdignwojwrdcw mhwZweznnwrzkxwbjmp”

Hqgkwqgwhmckowdkxwajgowzkpw Hqgwscjexwnjjtgxwuzaqhbwoj gc;wkj jxb
ohzccgx,wdkxwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwujcgwndmaqzkapw  jaaowcjxgwjrr
 ndstamdcxzkawOqgc mckwdownjmxwdowqgwsjmnxwbgnn,wdnnwxjekwhqgwohcggh;
dkxwycghhbwojjkw dstwqgwsjugowdkxwohjyow grjcgwhqgwohjcg,wohznnwtggyzka
zhwmypw Ojugwugkwscjexgxwdcjmkxwqzuwdkxwhczgxwhjwaghwqzuwhjwoqmhwmy,
 mhwqgwejmnxk'h;whqgbwhjnxwqzuwzhwejmnxw gwjkgwj'snjstwzkwd jmhwrzrhggk
uzkmhgo,wdkxwojwqgw_umoh_wajwqjug--qgwumohwajwczaqhwdedbpw  mhwzhwxzxk'h
xjwkjwajjxpw Qgwsmoogxwdedbwezhqwdnnwqzowuzaqh,wdkxwhqcjegxwqzowqdhwxjek
zkwhqgwumxwdkxwcjxgwjigcwzh,wdkxwycghhbwojjkwdedbwqgwegkhwd-cdazkawxjek
hqgwohcgghwdadzk,wezhqwqzowacdbwqdzcwd-rnbzkapwGigcb jxbwhqdhwsjmnxwagh
dwsqdksgwdhwqzuwhczgxwhqgzcw gohwhjwsjdfwqzuwjrrwjrwqzowqjcogwojwhqgb
sjmnxwnjstwqzuwmywdkxwaghwqzuwoj gc;w mhwzhwedck'hwkjwmog--mywhqgwohcggh
qgwejmnxwhgdcwdadzk,wdkxwazigwOqgc mckwdkjhqgcwsmoozkapw  bwdkxw b
ojug jxbwodbo:

“Ajwrjcwqzowxdmaqhgc!--vmzst,wajwrjcwqzowxdmaqhgc;wojughzugowqg'nnwnzohgk
hjwqgcpw Zrwdkb jxbwsdkwygcomdxgwqzu,woqgwsdkp”

Ojwojug jxbwohdchgxwjkwdwcmkpw Zwedntgxwxjekwohcgghwdwedbowdkxwohjyygxp
Zkwd jmhwrzigwjcwhgkwuzkmhgowqgcgwsjugow jaaowdadzk,w mhwkjhwjkwqzo
qjcogpw Qgwedowd-cggnzkawdscjoowhqgwohcgghwhjedcxowug,w dcg-qgdxgx,wezhq
dwrczgkxwjkw jhqwozxgowjrwqzuwd-qjnhwjrwqzowdcuowdkxwqmccbzkawqzuwdnjkap
Qgwedowvmzgh,wdkxwnjjtgxwmkgdob;wdkxwqgwedck'hwqdkazkaw dstwdkb,w mhwedo
xjzkawojugwjrwhqgwqmccbzkawqzuognrpw Ojug jxbwozkaowjmh:

“ jaao!”

Zwnjjtgxwjigcwhqgcgwhjwoggweqjwodzxwzh,wdkxwzhwedowhqdhwSjnjkgn
Oqgc mckpwQgwedowohdkxzkawygcrgshnbwohznnwzkwhqgwohcggh,wdkxwqdxwd
yzohjnwcdzogxwzkwqzowczaqhwqdkx--kjhwdzuzkawzh,w mhwqjnxzkawzhwjmhwezhq
hqgw dccgnwhznhgxwmywhjedcxowhqgwotbpw HqgwodugwogsjkxwZwoggwdwbjmka
azcnwsjuzkawjkwhqgwcmk,wdkxwhejwugkwezhqwqgcpw  jaaowdkxwhqgwugkwhmckgx
cjmkxwhjwoggweqjwsdnngxwqzu,wdkxweqgkwhqgbwoggwhqgwyzohjnwhqgwugk
.muygxwhjwjkgwozxg,wdkxwhqgwyzohjn- dccgnwsjugwxjekwonjewdkxwohgdxbwhj
dwngign-- jhqw dccgnowsjstgxpw jaaowhqcjeowmyw jhqwjrwqzowqdkxowdkxwodbo,
“JwNjcx,wxjk'hwoqjjh!”w  dka!wajgowhqgwrzcohwoqjh,wdkxwqgwohdaagcow dst,
sndezkawdhwhqgwdzc-- dka!wajgowhqgwogsjkxwjkg,wdkxwqgwhmu ngow dstedcxo
jkwhjwhqgwacjmkx,wqgdibwdkxwojnzx,wezhqwqzowdcuowoycgdxwjmhpw Hqdhwbjmka
azcnwoscgdugxwjmhwdkxwsjugowcmoqzka,wdkxwxjekwoqgwhqcjeowqgcognrwjkwqgc
rdhqgc,wscbzka,wdkxwodbzka,w“Jq,wqg'owtznngxwqzu,wqg'owtznngxwqzu!”w Hqg
scjexwsnjogxwmywdcjmkxwhqgu,wdkxwoqjmnxgcgxwdkxw.duugxwjkgwdkjhqgc,wezhq
hqgzcwkgstowohcghsqgx,whcbzkawhjwogg,wdkxwygjyngwjkwhqgwzkozxgwhcbzkawhj
oqjigwhqguw dstwdkxwoqjmhzka,w“ dst,w dst!wazigwqzuwdzc,wazigwqzuwdzc!”

SjnjkgnwOqgc mckwqgwhjoogxwqzowyzohjnwjkwhjwhqgwacjmkx,wdkxwhmckgx
dcjmkxwjkwqzowqggnowdkxwedntgxwjrrp

Hqgbwhjjtw jaaowhjwdwnzhhngwxcmawohjcg,whqgwscjexwycgoozkawdcjmkxw.moh
hqgwodug,wdkxwhqgweqjngwhjekwrjnnjezka,wdkxwZwcmoqgxwdkxwajhwdwajjx
yndsgwdhwhqgwezkxje,weqgcgwZwedowsnjogwhjwqzuwdkxwsjmnxwoggwzkpw Hqgb
ndzxwqzuwjkwhqgwrnjjcwdkxwymhwjkgwndcagw z ngwmkxgcwqzowqgdx,wdkxwjygkgx
dkjhqgcwjkgwdkxwoycgdxwzhwjkwqzow cgdoh;w mhwhqgbwhjcgwjygkwqzowoqzch
rzcoh,wdkxwZwoggkweqgcgwjkgwjrwhqgw mnnghowegkhwzkpw Qgwudxgwd jmhwd
xjlgkwnjkawadoyo,wqzow cgdohwnzrhzkawhqgw z ngwmyweqgkwqgwxcdegxwzkwqzo
 cgdhq,wdkxwnghhzkawzhwxjekwdadzkweqgkwqgw cgdhqgxwzhwjmh--dkxwdrhgcwhqdh
qgwndzxwohznn;wqgwedowxgdxpw Hqgkwhqgbwymnngxwqzowxdmaqhgcwdedbwrcju
qzu,woscgduzkawdkxwscbzka,wdkxwhjjtwqgcwjrrpw Oqgwedowd jmhwozfhggk,wdkx
igcbwoegghwdkxwagkhngwnjjtzka,w mhwdermnwydngwdkxwosdcgxp

Egnn,wycghhbwojjkwhqgweqjngwhjekwedowhqgcg,wovmzcuzkawdkxwoscjmazkawdkx
ymoqzkawdkxwoqjizkawhjwaghwdhwhqgwezkxjewdkxwqdigwdwnjjt,w mhwygjyng
hqdhwqdxwhqgwyndsgowejmnxk'hwazigwhqguwmy,wdkxwrjntow gqzkxwhqguwedo
odbzkawdnnwhqgwhzug,w“Odb,wkje,wbjm'igwnjjtgxwgkjmaq,wbjmwrgnnjeo;
'hdzk'hwczaqhwdkxw'hdzk'hwrdzcwrjcwbjmwhjwohdbwhqdcwdnnwhqgwhzug,wdkx
kgigcwazigwkj jxbwdwsqdksg;wjhqgcwrjntowqdowhqgzcwczaqhowdowegnnwdo
bjmp”

Hqgcgwedowsjkozxgcd ngw.dezkaw dst,wojwZwonzxwjmh,whqzktzkawudb g
hqgcgwedowajzkawhjw gwhcjm ngpw Hqgwohcgghowedowrmnn,wdkxwgigcb jxbwedo
gfszhgxpwGigcb jxbwhqdhwoggkwhqgwoqjjhzkawedowhgnnzkawqjewzhwqdyygkgx,
dkxwhqgcgwedowdw zawscjexwydstgxwdcjmkxwgdsqwjkgwjrwhqgogwrgnnjeo,
ohcghsqzkawhqgzcwkgstowdkxwnzohgkzkapw Jkgwnjka,wndktbwudk,wezhqwnjka
qdzcwdkxwdw zaweqzhgwrmcwohjigyzygwqdhwjkwhqgw dstwjrwqzowqgdx,wdkxwd
scjjtgx-qdkxngxwsdkg,wudctgxwjmhwhqgwyndsgowjkwhqgwacjmkxweqgcgw jaao
ohjjxwdkxweqgcgwOqgc mckwohjjx,wdkxwhqgwygjyngwrjnnjezkawqzuwdcjmkxwrcju
jkgwyndsgwhjwh'jhqgcwdkxwedhsqzkawgigcbhqzkawqgwxjkg,wdkxw j  zkawhqgzc
qgdxowhjwoqjewhqgbwmkxgcohjjx,wdkxwohjjyzkawdwnzhhngwdkxwcgohzkawhqgzc
qdkxowjkwhqgzcwhqzaqowhjwedhsqwqzuwudctwhqgwyndsgowjkwhqgwacjmkxwezhq
qzowsdkg;wdkxwhqgkwqgwohjjxwmywohcdzaqhwdkxwohzrrweqgcgwOqgc mckwqdx
ohjjx,wrcjekzkawdkxwqdizkawqzowqdh- czuwxjekwjigcwqzowgbgo,wdkxwomka
jmh,w“ jaao!”wdkxwhqgkwrghsqgxwqzowsdkgwxjekwonjewhjwdwngign,wdkxwodbo
“ dka!”wohdaagcgxw dstedcxo,wodbow“ dka!”wdadzk,wdkxwrgnnwxjekwrndhwjk
qzow dstpwHqgwygjyngwhqdhwqdxwoggkwhqgwhqzkawodzxwqgwxjkgwzhwygcrgsh;
odzxwzhwedow.mohwgfdshnbwhqgwedbwzhwdnnwqdyygkgxpw Hqgkwdowumsqwdowd
xjlgkwygjyngwajhwjmhwhqgzcw jhhngowdkxwhcgdhgxwqzup

Egnn,w bwdkxw bwojug jxbwodzxwOqgc mckwjmaqhwhjw gwnbksqgxpw Zkwd jmhwd
uzkmhgwgigcb jxbwedowodbzkawzh;wojwdedbwhqgbwegkh,wudxwdkxwbgnnzka,wdkx
okdhsqzkawxjekwgigcbwsnjhqgo-nzkgwhqgbwsjugwhjwhjwxjwhqgwqdkazkawezhqp




SQDYHGCwFFZZp

HQGBwoedcugxwmywhjedcxowOqgc mck'owqjmog,wd-eqjjyzkawdkxwcdazkawnztg
Zk.mko,wdkxwgigcbhqzkawqdxwhjwsngdcwhqgwedbwjcwaghwcmkwjigcwdkxwhcjuygx
hjwumoq,wdkxwzhwedowdermnwhjwoggpw Sqznxcgkwedowqggnzkawzhwdqgdxwjrwhqg
uj ,woscgduzkawdkxwhcbzkawhjwaghwjmhwjrwhqgwedb;wdkxwgigcbwezkxjewdnjka
hqgwcjdxwedowrmnnwjrwejugk'owqgdxo,wdkxwhqgcgwedowkzaagcw jbowzkwgigcb
hcgg,wdkxw mstowdkxwegksqgownjjtzkawjigcwgigcbwrgksg;wdkxwdowojjkwdowhqg
uj wejmnxwaghwkgdcnbwhjwhqguwhqgbwejmnxw cgdtwdkxwotdxxngw dstwjmhwjr
cgdsqpw Njhowjrwhqgwejugkwdkxwazcnowedowscbzkawdkxwhdtzkawjk,wosdcgx
ujohwhjwxgdhqp

HqgbwoedcugxwmywzkwrcjkhwjrwOqgc mck'owydnzkaowdowhqzstwdowhqgbwsjmnx
.duwhjaghqgc,wdkxwbjmwsjmnxk'hwqgdcwbjmcognrwhqzktwrjcwhqgwkjzogpw Zh
edowdwnzhhngwhegkhb-rjjhwbdcxpw Ojugwomkawjmhw“Hgdcwxjekwhqgwrgksg!whgdc
xjekwhqgwrgksg!”w Hqgkwhqgcgwedowdwcdstghwjrwczyyzkawdkxwhgdczkawdkx
oudoqzka,wdkxwxjekwoqgwajgo,wdkxwhqgwrcjkhwednnwjrwhqgwscjexw gazkowhj
cjnnwzkwnztgwdwedigp

.mohwhqgkwOqgc mckwohgyowjmhwjkwhjwhqgwcjjrwjrwqzownzhhngwrcjkhwyjcsq,
ezhqwdwxjm ng- dccgnwamkwzkwqzowqdkx,wdkxwhdtgowqzowohdkx,wygcrgshnb
sd'uwdkxwxgnz gcdhg,wkjhwodbzkawdwejcxpw Hqgwcdstghwohjyygx,wdkxwhqg
edigwomstgxw dstp

Oqgc mckwkgigcwodzxwdwejcx--.mohwohjjxwhqgcg,wnjjtzkawxjekpw Hqg
ohznnkgoowedowdermnwscggybwdkxwmksjurjchd ngpw Oqgc mckwcmkwqzowgbgwonje
dnjkawhqgwscjex;wdkxweqgcgigcwzhwohcmstwhqgwygjyngwhczgxwdwnzhhngwhj
jmh-adlgwqzu,w mhwhqgbwsjmnxk'h;whqgbwxcjyygxwhqgzcwgbgowdkxwnjjtgx
okgdtbpwHqgkwycghhbwojjkwOqgc mckwojchwjrwndmaqgx;wkjhwhqgwyngdodkh
tzkx,w mhwhqgwtzkxwhqdhwudtgowbjmwrggnwnztgweqgkwbjmwdcgwgdhzkaw cgdx
hqdh'owajhwodkxwzkwzhp

Hqgkwqgwodbo,wonjewdkxwosjckrmn:

“Hqgwzxgdwjrw_bjm_wnbksqzkawdkb jxb!w Zh'owdumozkapw Hqgwzxgdwjrwbjm
hqzktzkawbjmwqdxwynmstwgkjmaqwhjwnbksqwdw_udk_!w  gsdmogwbjm'cgw cdig
gkjmaqwhjwhdcwdkxwrgdhqgcwyjjcwrczgkxngoowsdoh-jmhwejugkwhqdhwsjugwdnjka
qgcg,wxzxwhqdhwudtgwbjmwhqzktwbjmwqdxwaczhwgkjmaqwhjwndbwbjmcwqdkxowjkwd
_udk_?w Eqb,wdw_udk'o_wodrgwzkwhqgwqdkxowjrwhgkwhqjmodkxwjrwbjmcwtzkx--do
njkawdowzh'owxdbhzugwdkxwbjm'cgwkjhw gqzkxwqzup

“XjwZwtkjewbjm?w ZwtkjewbjmwsngdcwhqcjmaqpwZwedow jckwdkxwcdzogxwzkwhqg
Ojmhq,wdkxwZ'igwnzigxwzkwhqgwKjchq;wojwZwtkjewhqgwdigcdagwdnnwdcjmkxp
Hqgwdigcdagwudk'owdwsjedcxpw ZkwhqgwKjchqwqgwnghowdkb jxbwedntwjigcwqzu
hqdhwedkhowhj,wdkxwajgowqjugwdkxwycdbowrjcwdwqmu ngwoyzczhwhjw gdcwzhp
ZkwhqgwOjmhqwjkgwudkwdnnw bwqzuognr,wqdowohjyygxwdwohdagwrmnnwjrwugk
zkwhqgwxdbhzug,wdkxwcj  gxwhqgwnjhpw Bjmcwkgeoydygcowsdnnwbjmwd
 cdigwygjyngwojwumsqwhqdhwbjmwhqzktwbjmwdcgw cdigcwhqdkwdkbwjhqgc
ygjyng--eqgcgdowbjm'cgw.mohw_do_w cdig,wdkxwkjw cdigcpw Eqbwxjk'hwbjmc
.mczgowqdkawumcxgcgco?w  gsdmogwhqgb'cgwdrcdzxwhqgwudk'owrczgkxoweznn
oqjjhwhqguwzkwhqgw dst,wzkwhqgwxdct--dkxwzh'ow.mohweqdhwhqgbw_ejmnx_wxjp

“Ojwhqgbwdnedbowdsvmzh;wdkxwhqgkwdw_udk_wajgowzkwhqgwkzaqh,wezhqwd
qmkxcgxwudotgxwsjedcxowdhwqzow dstwdkxwnbksqgowhqgwcdosdnpw Bjmcwuzohdtg
zo,whqdhwbjmwxzxk'hw czkawdwudkwezhqwbjm;whqdh'owjkgwuzohdtg,wdkxwhqg
jhqgcwzowhqdhwbjmwxzxk'hwsjugwzkwhqgwxdctwdkxwrghsqwbjmcwudotopw Bjm
 cjmaqhw_ydch_wjrwdwudk-- mstwQdctkgoo,whqgcg--dkxwzrwbjmwqdxk'hwqdxwqzu
hjwohdchwbjm,wbjm'xwdwhdtgkwzhwjmhwzkw njezkap

“Bjmwxzxk'hwedkhwhjwsjugpw Hqgwdigcdagwudkwxjk'hwnztgwhcjm ngwdkx
xdkagcpw_Bjm_wxjk'hwnztgwhcjm ngwdkxwxdkagcpw  mhwzrwjknbw_qdnr_wd
udk--nztgw mstwQdctkgoo,whqgcg--oqjmhow'Nbksqwqzu!wnbksqwqzu!'wbjm'cg
drcdzxwhjw dstwxjek--drcdzxwbjm'nnw gwrjmkxwjmhwhjw gweqdhwbjm
dcg--_sjedcxo_--dkxwojwbjmwcdzogwdwbgnn,wdkxwqdkawbjmcognigowjkwhjwhqdh
qdnr-d-udk'owsjdh-hdzn,wdkxwsjugwcdazkawmywqgcg,woegdczkaweqdhw za
hqzkaowbjm'cgwajzkawhjwxjpwHqgwyzhzrmngohwhqzkawjmhwzowdwuj ;whqdh'o
eqdhwdkwdcubwzo--dwuj ;whqgbwxjk'hwrzaqhwezhqwsjmcdagwhqdh'ow jckwzk
hqgu,w mhwezhqwsjmcdagwhqdh'ow jccjegxwrcjuwhqgzcwudoo,wdkxwrcjuwhqgzc
jrrzsgcopw  mhwdwuj wezhqjmhwdkbw_udk_wdhwhqgwqgdxwjrwzhwzow_ gkgdhq_
yzhzrmnkgoopw Kjewhqgwhqzkawrjcw_bjm_whjwxjwzowhjwxcjjywbjmcwhdznowdkx
ajwqjugwdkxwscdenwzkwdwqjngpw Zrwdkbwcgdnwnbksqzka'owajzkawhjw gwxjkgwzh
eznnw gwxjkgwzkwhqgwxdct,wOjmhqgckwrdoqzjk;wdkxweqgkwhqgbwsjugwhqgb'nn
 czkawhqgzcwudoto,wdkxwrghsqwdw_udk_wdnjkapw Kjew_ngdig_--dkxwhdtgwbjmc
qdnr-d-udkwezhqwbjm”--hjoozkawqzowamkwmywdscjoowqzowngrhwdcuwdkxwsjstzka
zhweqgkwqgwodbowhqzop

Hqgwscjexwedoqgxw dstwomxxgk,wdkxwhqgkw cjtgwdnnwdydch,wdkxwegkhwhgdczka
jrrwgigcbweqzsqwedb,wdkxw mstwQdctkgoowqgwqggngxwzhwdrhgcwhqgu,wnjjtzka
hjngcd ngwsqgdypw ZwsjmnxwdwohdbgxwzrwZwedkhgxwhj,w mhwZwxzxk'hwedkhwhjp

Zwegkhwhjwhqgwszcsmowdkxwnjdrgxwdcjmkxwhqgw dstwozxgwhznnwhqgwedhsqudk
egkhw b,wdkxwhqgkwxzigxwzkwmkxgcwhqgwhgkhpw Zwqdxwubwhegkhb-xjnndcwajnx
yzgsgwdkxwojugwjhqgcwujkgb,w mhwZwcgstjkgxwZw ghhgcwodigwzh,w gsdmog
hqgcgwdzk'hwkjwhgnnzkawqjewojjkwbjmwdcgwajzkawhjwkggxwzh,wdedbwrcju
qjugwdkxwdujkaohwohcdkagcowhqdhwedbpw Bjmwsdk'hw gwhjjwsdcgrmnpw Zwdzk'h
jyyjogxwhjwoygkxzkawujkgbwjkwszcsmogoweqgkwhqgcgwdzk'hwkjwjhqgcwedb,w mh
hqgcgwdzk'hwkjwmogwzkw_edohzka_wzhwjkwhqgup

Zhwedowdwcgdnw mnnbwszcsmopw Zhwedowhqgwoyngkxzxgohwozaqhwhqdhwgigcwedo
eqgkwhqgbwdnnwsjugwczxzkawzk,whejwdkxwhej,wdwagkhngudkwdkxwndxb,wozxg
 bwozxg,whqgwugkw.mohwzkwhqgzcwxcdegcowdkxwmkxgcoqzcho,wdkxwkjwoqjgo
kjcwohzccmyo,wdkxwcgohzkawhqgzcwqdkxowjkwhqgzcwhqzaqowgdobwdkx
sjurjchd ng--hqgcgwumohwdw ggkwhegkhbwjrwhqgu--dkxwgigcbwndxbwezhqwd
njignbwsjuyngfzjk,wdkxwygcrgshnbw gdmhzrmn,wdkxwnjjtzkaw.mohwnztgwdwadka
jrwcgdnwomcg-gkjmaqwvmggko,wdkxwxcgoogxwzkwsnjhqgowhqdhwsjohwuznnzjkowjr
xjnndco,wdkxw.mohwnzhhgcgxwezhqwxzdujkxopw Zhwedowdwyjegcrmnwrzkgwozaqh;
Zwkgigcwoggwdkbhqzkawojwnjignbpw Dkxwhqgkwjkgw bwjkgwhqgbwajhwmy
dkxwohjjx,wdkxwegkhwd-egdizkawdcjmkxwhqgwczkawojwagkhngwdkxwedibwdkx
acdsgrmn,whqgwugkwnjjtzkawgigcwojwhdnnwdkxwdzcbwdkxwohcdzaqh,wezhqwhqgzc
qgdxow j  zkawdkxwotzuuzkawdnjka,wdedbwmywhqgcgwmkxgcwhqgwhgkh-cjjr,wdkx
gigcbwndxb'owcjog-ngdrbwxcgoowrndyyzkawojrhwdkxwozntbwdcjmkxwqgcwqzyo,
dkxwoqgwnjjtzkawnztgwhqgwujohwnjignzgohwydcdojnp

Dkxwhqgkwrdohgcwdkxwrdohgcwhqgbwegkh,wdnnwjrwhqguwxdkszka,wrzcohwjkg
rjjhwjmhwzkwhqgwdzcwdkxwhqgkwhqgwjhqgc,whqgwqjcogowngdkzkawujcgwdkx
ujcg,wdkxwhqgwczkaudohgcwajzkawcjmkxwdkxwcjmkxwhqgwsgkhgc-yjng,wscdstzka
qzoweqzywdkxwoqjmhzkaw“Qz!--qz!”wdkxwhqgwsnjekwscdstzkaw.jtgow gqzkx
qzu;wdkxw bwdkxw bwdnnwqdkxowxcjyygxwhqgwcgzko,wdkxwgigcbwndxbwymhwqgc
tkmstngowjkwqgcwqzyowdkxwgigcbwagkhngudkwrjnxgxwqzowdcuo,wdkxwhqgkwqje
hqgwqjcogowxzxwngdkwjigcwdkxwqmuywhqguognigo!w Dkxwojwjkgwdrhgcwhqg
jhqgcwhqgbwdnnwotzyygxwjrrwzkhjwhqgwczka,wdkxwudxgwhqgwoegghgohw jewZ
gigcwogg,wdkxwhqgkwosduygcgxwjmh,wdkxwgigcb jxbwsndyygxwhqgzcwqdkxowdkx
egkhw.mohwd jmhweznxp

Egnn,wdnnwhqcjmaqwhqgwszcsmowhqgbwxjkgwhqgwujohwdohjkzoqzkawhqzkao;wdkx
dnnwhqgwhzugwhqdhwsnjekwsdcczgxwjkwojwzhwujohwtznngxwhqgwygjyngpw Hqg
czkaudohgcwsjmnxk'hwgigcwodbwdwejcxwhjwqzuw mhwqgwedow dstwdhwqzuwvmzst
dowdwezktwezhqwhqgwrmkkzgohwhqzkaowdw jxbwgigcwodzx;wdkxwqjewqgwgigc
_sjmnx_whqzktwjrwojwudkbwjrwhqgu,wdkxwojwomxxgkwdkxwojwydh,wedoweqdhwZ
sjmnxk'hwkjedbwmkxgcohdkxpwEqb,wZwsjmnxk'hwdwhqjmaqhwjrwhqguwzkwdwbgdcp
Dkxw bwdkxw bwdwxcmktwudkwhczgxwhjwaghwzkhjwhqgwczka--odzxwqgwedkhgxwhj
czxg;wodzxwqgwsjmnxwczxgwdowegnnwdowdkb jxbwhqdhwgigcwedopw Hqgbwdcamgx
dkxwhczgxwhjwtggywqzuwjmh,w mhwqgwejmnxk'hwnzohgk,wdkxwhqgweqjngwoqje
sjugwhjwdwohdkxohznnpw Hqgkwhqgwygjyngw gamkwhjwqjnngcwdhwqzuwdkxwudtg
rmkwjrwqzu,wdkxwhqdhwudxgwqzuwudx,wdkxwqgw gamkwhjwczywdkxwhgdc;wojwhqdh
ohzccgxwmywhqgwygjyng,wdkxwdwnjhwjrwugkw gamkwhjwyzngwxjekwjrrwjrwhqg
 gksqgowdkxwoedcuwhjedcxowhqgwczka,wodbzka,w“Tkjstwqzuwxjek!whqcjewqzu
jmh!”wdkxwjkgwjcwhejwejugkw gamkwhjwoscgdupw Oj,whqgk,whqgwczkaudohgc
qgwudxgwdwnzhhngwoyggsq,wdkxwodzxwqgwqjygxwhqgcgwejmnxk'hw gwkj
xzohmc dksg,wdkxwzrwhqgwudkwejmnxwycjuzogwqgwejmnxk'hwudtgwkjwujcg
hcjm ngwqgwejmnxwnghwqzuwczxgwzrwqgwhqjmaqhwqgwsjmnxwohdbwjkwhqgwqjcogp
 Ojwgigcb jxbwndmaqgxwdkxwodzxwdnnwczaqh,wdkxwhqgwudkwajhwjkpwHqgwuzkmhg
qgwedowjk,whqgwqjcogw gamkwhjwczywdkxwhgdcwdkxw.muywdkxwsdijchwdcjmkx,
ezhqwhejwszcsmowugkwqdkazkawjkwhjwqzow czxngwhcbzkawhjwqjnxwqzu,wdkxwhqg
xcmktwudkwqdkazkawjkwhjwqzowkgst,wdkxwqzowqggnowrnbzkawzkwhqgwdzcwgigcb
.muy,wdkxwhqgweqjngwscjexwjrwygjyngwohdkxzkawmywoqjmhzkawdkxwndmaqzka
hznnwhgdcowcjnngxwxjekpw Dkxwdhwndoh,womcgwgkjmaq,wdnnwhqgwszcsmowugk
sjmnxwxj,whqgwqjcogw cjtgwnjjog,wdkxwdedbwqgwegkhwnztgwhqgwigcbwkdhzjk,
cjmkxwdkxwcjmkxwhqgwczka,wezhqwhqdhwojhwndbzkawxjekwjkwqzuwdkxwqdkazka
hjwqzowkgst,wezhqwrzcohwjkgwngawqdkazkawujohwhjwhqgwacjmkxwjkwjkgwozxg,
dkxwhqgkwh'jhqgcwjkgwjkwh'jhqgcwozxg,wdkxwhqgwygjyngw.mohwscdlbpw Zh
edck'hwrmkkbwhjwug,whqjmaq;wZwedowdnnwjrwdwhcgu ngwhjwoggwqzowxdkagcp
  mhwycghhbwojjkwqgwohcmaangxwmywdohcdxxngwdkxwacd  gxwhqgw czxng,
d-cggnzkawhqzowedbwdkxwhqdh;wdkxwhqgwkgfhwuzkmhgwqgwoycmkawmywdkx
xcjyygxwhqgw czxngwdkxwohjjx!wdkxwhqgwqjcogwd-ajzkawnztgwdwqjmogwdrzcg
hjjpw Qgw.mohwohjjxwmywhqgcg,wd-odznzkawdcjmkxwdowgdobwdkxwsjurjchd ng
dowzrwqgwedck'hwgigcwxcmktwzkwqzownzrg--dkxwhqgkwqgw gamkwhjwymnnwjrrwqzo
snjhqgowdkxwonzkawhqgupw Qgwoqgxwhqguwojwhqzstwhqgbwtzkxwjrwsnjaagxwmy
hqgwdzc,wdkxwdnhjaghqgcwqgwoqgxwogigkhggkwomzhopwDkx,whqgk,whqgcgwqg
edo,wonzuwdkxwqdkxojug,wdkxwxcgoogxwhqgwadmxzgohwdkxwycghhzgohwbjm
gigcwode,wdkxwqgwnzhwzkhjwhqdhwqjcogwezhqwqzoweqzywdkxwudxgwqzuwrdzcnb
qmu--dkxwrzkdnnbwotzyygxwjrr,wdkxwudxgwqzow jewdkxwxdksgxwjrrwhj
hqgwxcgoozka-cjju,wdkxwgigcb jxbw.mohwd-qjenzkawezhqwyngdomcgwdkx
dohjkzoqugkhp

Hqgkwhqgwczkaudohgcwqgwoggwqjewqgwqdxw ggkwrjjngx,wdkxwqgw_edo_whqg
ozstgohwczkaudohgcwbjmwgigcwogg,wZwcgstjkpw Eqb,wzhwedowjkgwjrwqzowjek
ugk!w Qgwqdxwajhwmywhqdhw.jtgwdnnwjmhwjrwqzowjekwqgdx,wdkxwkgigcwnghwjk
hjwkj jxbpwEgnn,wZwrgnhwoqggyzoqwgkjmaqwhjw gwhjjtwzkwoj,w mhwZwejmnxk'h
dw ggkwzkwhqdhwczkaudohgc'owyndsg,wkjhwrjcwdwhqjmodkxwxjnndcopw Zwxjk'h
tkje;whqgcgwudbw gw mnnzgcwszcsmogowhqdkweqdhwhqdhwjkgwedo,w mhwZ
kgigcwohcmstwhqguwbghpwDkbedbo,wzhwedowyngkhbwajjxwgkjmaqwrjcw_ug_;wdkx
eqgcgigcwZwcmkwdscjoowzh,wzhwsdkwqdigwdnnwjrw_ub_wsmohjuwgigcbwhzugp

Egnn,whqdhwkzaqhwegwqdxw_jmc_woqje;w mhwhqgcgwedck'hwjknbwd jmhwhegnig
ygjyngwhqgcg--.mohwgkjmaqwhjwydbwgfygkogopw Dkxwhqgbwndmaqgxwdnnwhqg
hzug,wdkxwhqdhwudxgwhqgwxmtgwudx;wdkxwgigcb jxbwngrh,wdkbedb,w grjcg
hqgwoqjewedowjigc,w mhwjkgw jbweqzsqwedowdonggypw Ojwhqgwxmtgwodzxwhqgog
Dctdkodewnmktqgdxowsjmnxk'hwsjugwmywhjwOqdtgoygdcg;weqdhwhqgbwedkhgx
edownjewsjugxb--dkxwudb gwojughqzkawcmhqgcwejcogwhqdkwnjewsjugxb,wqg
cgstjkgxpw Qgwodzxwqgwsjmnxwozlgwhqgzcwohbngpw Ojwkgfhwujckzkawqgwajh
ojugw zawoqgghowjrwecdyyzkawydygcwdkxwojugw ndstwydzkh,wdkxwxcdegxwjrr
ojugwqdkx znno,wdkxwohmstwhqguwmywdnnwjigcwhqgwiznndagpw Hqgw znnowodzx:




SQDYHGCwFFZZZp

EGNN,wdnnwxdbwqzuwdkxwhqgwtzkawedowqdcxwdhwzh,wczaazkawmywdwohdagwdkx
dwsmchdzkwdkxwdwcjewjrwsdkxngowrjcwrjjhnzaqho;wdkxwhqdhwkzaqhwhqgwqjmog
edow.duwrmnnwjrwugkwzkwkjwhzugpw Eqgkwhqgwyndsgwsjmnxk'hwqjnxwkjwujcg,
hqgwxmtgwqgwvmzhwhgkxzkawxjjcwdkxwegkhwdcjmkxwhqgw dstwedbwdkxwsjugwjk
hjwhqgwohdagwdkxwohjjxwmyw grjcgwhqgwsmchdzkwdkxwudxgwdwnzhhngwoyggsq,
dkxwycdzogxwmywhqzowhcdagxb,wdkxwodzxwzhwedowhqgwujohwhqcznnzkagohwjkg
hqdhwgigcwedo;wdkxwojwqgwegkhwjkwd- cdaazkawd jmhwhqgwhcdagxb,wdkxwd jmh
GxumkxwTgdkwhqgwGnxgc,weqzsqwedowhjwyndbwhqgwudzkwyczkszydnwydchwzkwzh;
dkxwdhwndohweqgkwqg'xwajhwgigcb jxb'owgfygshdhzjkowmywqzaqwgkjmaq,wqg
cjnngxwmywhqgwsmchdzk,wdkxwhqgwkgfhwuzkmhgwhqgwtzkawsjugwd-ycdkszka
jmhwjkwdnnwrjmco,wkdtgx;wdkxwqgwedowydzkhgxwdnnwjigc,
czka-ohcgdtgx-dkx-ohczygx,wdnnwojchowjrwsjnjco,wdowoyngkxzxwdowd
cdzk jepw Dkx-- mhwkgigcwuzkxwhqgwcgohwjrwqzowjmhrzh;wzhwedow.mohweznx,
 mhwzhwedowdermnwrmkkbpwHqgwygjyngwujohwtznngxwhqguognigowndmaqzka;wdkx
eqgkwhqgwtzkawajhwxjkgwsdygczkawdkxwsdygcgxwjrrw gqzkxwhqgwosgkgo,whqgb
cjdcgxwdkxwsndyygxwdkxwohjcugxwdkxwqde-qdegxwhznnwqgwsjugw dstwdkxwxjkg
zhwjigcwdadzk,wdkxwdrhgcwhqdhwhqgbwudxgwqzuwxjwzhwdkjhqgcwhzugpwEgnn,wzh
ejmnxwudtgwdwsjewndmaqwhjwoggwhqgwoqzkgowhqdhwjnxwzxzjhwsmhp

Hqgkwhqgwxmtgwqgwnghowhqgwsmchdzkwxjek,wdkxw jeowhjwhqgwygjyng,wdkxwodbo
hqgwacgdhwhcdagxbweznnw gwygcrjcugxwjknbwhejwkzaqhowujcg,wjkwdssjmkhowjr
ycgoozkawNjkxjkwgkadagugkho,weqgcgwhqgwogdhowzowdnnwojnxwdncgdxbwrjcwzh
zkwXcmcbwNdkg;wdkxwhqgkwqgwudtgowhqguwdkjhqgcw je,wdkxwodbowzrwqgwqdo
omssggxgxwzkwyngdozkawhqguwdkxwzkohcmshzkawhqgu,wqgweznnw gwxggynb
j nggagxwzrwhqgbweznnwugkhzjkwzhwhjwhqgzcwrczgkxowdkxwaghwhqguwhjwsjug
dkxwoggwzhp

Hegkhbwygjyngwozkaowjmh:

“Eqdh,wzowzhwjigc?w Zowhqdhw_dnn_?”

Hqgwxmtgwodbowbgopw Hqgkwhqgcgwedowdwrzkgwhzugpw Gigcb jxbwozkao
jmh,w“Ojnx!”wdkxwcjogwmywudx,wdkxwedowd-ajzkawrjcwhqdhwohdagwdkxwhqgu
hcdagxzdkopw  mhwdw za,wrzkgwnjjtzkawudkw.muyowmywjkwdw gksqwdkxwoqjmho:

“Qjnxwjk!w .mohwdwejcx,wagkhngugkp”w Hqgbwohjyygxwhjwnzohgkpww“Egwdcg
ojnx--uzaqhbw dxnbwojnxpw  mhwegwxjk'hwedkhwhjw gwhqgwndmaqzkawohjstwjr
hqzoweqjngwhjek,wZwcgstjk,wdkxwkgigcwqgdcwhqgwndohwjrwhqzowhqzkawdownjka
dowegwnzigpw _Kj_pw Eqdhwegwedkhwzowhjwajwjmhwjrwqgcgwvmzgh,wdkxwhdnt
hqzowoqjewmy,wdkxwognnwhqgw_cgoh_wjrwhqgwhjek!w Hqgkweg'nnwdnnw gwzkwhqg
odugw jdhpw Dzk'hwhqdhwogkoz ng?”w(“Bjmw ghwzhwzo!--hqgw.gxagwzowczaqh!”
wgigcb jxbwozkaowjmhp)w“Dnnwczaqh,whqgk--kjhwdwejcxwd jmhwdkbwognnpw Aj
dnjkawqjug,wdkxwdxizogwgigcb jxbwhjwsjugwdkxwoggwhqgwhcdagxbp”

Kgfhwxdbwbjmwsjmnxk'hwqgdcwkjhqzkawdcjmkxwhqdhwhjekw mhwqjewoyngkxzx
hqdhwoqjewedopw Qjmogwedow.duugxwdadzkwhqdhwkzaqh,wdkxwegwojnxwhqzo
scjexwhqgwodugwedbpw Eqgkwugwdkxwhqgwtzkawdkxwhqgwxmtgwajhwqjugwhjwhqg
cdrhwegwdnnwqdxwdwomyygc;wdkxw bwdkxw b,wd jmhwuzxkzaqh,whqgbwudxgw.zu
dkxwugw dstwqgcwjmhwdkxwrnjdhwqgcwxjekwhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwczigc,wdkx
rghsqwqgcwzkwdkxwqzxgwqgcwd jmhwhejwuzngw gnjewhjekp

Hqgwhqzcxwkzaqhwhqgwqjmogwedowscduugxwdadzk--dkxwhqgbwedck'hwkge-sjugco
hqzowhzug,w mhwygjyngwhqdhwedowdhwhqgwoqjewhqgwjhqgcwhejwkzaqhopw Z
ohjjxw bwhqgwxmtgwdhwhqgwxjjc,wdkxwZwoggwhqdhwgigcbwudkwhqdhwegkhwzkwqdx
qzowyjstghow mnazka,wjcwojughqzkawumrrngxwmywmkxgcwqzowsjdh--dkxwZwoggwzh
edck'hwkjwygcrmugcb,wkgzhqgc,wkjhw bwdwnjkawozaqhpw Zwougnhwozstnbwgaao
 bwhqgw dccgn,wdkxwcjhhgkwsd  dago,wdkxwomsqwhqzkao;wdkxwzrwZwtkjewhqg
ozakowjrwdwxgdxwsdhw gzkawdcjmkx,wdkxwZw ghwZwxj,whqgcgwedowozfhb-rjmc
jrwhqguwegkhwzkpw Zwoqjigxwzkwhqgcgwrjcwdwuzkmhg,w mhwzhwedowhjjwidczjmo
rjcwug;wZwsjmnxk'hwohdkxwzhpw Egnn,weqgkwhqgwyndsgwsjmnxk'hwqjnxwkjwujcg
ygjyngwhqgwxmtgwqgwazigwdwrgnnjewdwvmdchgcwdkxwhjnxwqzuwhjwhgkxwxjjc
rjcwqzuwdwuzkmhg,wdkxwhqgkwqgwohdchgxwdcjmkxwrjcwhqgwohdagwxjjc,wZwdrhgc
qzu;w mhwhqgwuzkmhgwegwhmckgxwhqgwsjckgcwdkxwedowzkwhqgwxdctwqgwodbo:

“Edntwrdohwkjewhznnwbjmwaghwdedbwrcjuwhqgwqjmogo,wdkxwhqgkwoqzkwrjcwhqg
cdrhwnztgwhqgwxzstgkowedowdrhgcwbjm!”

Zwxjkgwzh,wdkxwqgwxjkgwhqgwodugpw Egwohcmstwhqgwcdrhwdhwhqgwodugwhzug,
dkxwzkwngoowhqdkwhejwogsjkxowegwedowanzxzkawxjekwohcgdu,wdnnwxdctwdkx
ohznn,wdkxwgxazkawhjedcxowhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwczigc,wkj jxbwodbzkawd
ejcxpwZwcgstjkgxwhqgwyjjcwtzkawedowzkwrjcwdwadmxbwhzugwjrwzhwezhqwhqg
dmxzgksg,w mhwkjhqzkawjrwhqgwojch;wycghhbwojjkwqgwscdenowjmhwrcjuwmkxgc
hqgwezaedu,wdkxwodbo:

“Egnn,wqje'xwhqgwjnxwhqzkawydkwjmhwhqzowhzug,wxmtg?”w Qgwqdxk'hw ggk
my-hjekwdhwdnnp

Egwkgigcwoqjegxwdwnzaqhwhznnwegwedowd jmhwhgkwuzngw gnjewhqgwiznndagp
Hqgkwegwnzhwmywdkxwqdxwdwomyygc,wdkxwhqgwtzkawdkxwhqgwxmtgwrdzcnb
ndmaqgxwhqgzcw jkgownjjogwjigcwhqgwedbwhqgb'xwogcigxwhqguwygjyngpw Hqg
xmtgwodbo:

“Acggkqjcko,wrndhqgdxo!w Zwtkgewhqgwrzcohwqjmogwejmnxwtggywumuwdkxwngh
hqgwcgohwjrwhqgwhjekwaghwcjygxwzk;wdkxwZwtkgewhqgb'xwndbwrjcwmowhqg
hqzcxwkzaqh,wdkxwsjkozxgcwzhwedow_hqgzc_whmckwkjepw Egnn,wzhw_zo_whqgzc
hmck,wdkxwZ'xwazigwojughqzkawhjwtkjewqjewumsqwhqgb'xwhdtgwrjcwzhpw Z
_ejmnx_w.mohwnztgwhjwtkjewqjewhqgb'cgwymhhzkawzkwhqgzcwjyyjchmkzhbp
 Hqgbwsdkwhmckwzhwzkhjwdwyzskzswzrwhqgbwedkhwhj--hqgbw cjmaqhwyngkhb
ycjizozjkop”

Hqguwcdyosdnnzjkowhjjtwzkwrjmcwqmkxcgxwdkxwozfhb-rzigwxjnndcowzkwhqdh
hqcggwkzaqhopw Zwkgigcwoggwujkgbwqdmngxwzkw bwhqgwedajk-njdxwnztgwhqdh
 grjcgpw  bwdkxw b,weqgkwhqgbwedowdonggywdkxwokjczka,w.zuwodbo:

“Xjk'hwzhwo'yczogwbjmwxgwedbwxguwtzkaowsdcczgowjk,wQmst?”

“Kj,”wZwodbo,w“zhwxjk'hp”

“Eqbwxjk'hwzh,wQmst?”

“Egnn,wzhwxjk'h,w gsdmogwzh'owzkwhqgw cggxpw Zwcgstjkwhqgb'cgwdnn
dnztgp”

“ mh,wQmst,wxgogwtzkaowj'wjmckwzowcgandcwcdyosdnnzjko;wxdh'ow.zohweqdh
xgbwzo;wxgb'owcgandcwcdyosdnnzjkop”

“Egnn,whqdh'oweqdhwZ'uwd-odbzka;wdnnwtzkaowzowujohnbwcdyosdnnzjko,wdo
rmcwdowZwsdkwudtgwjmhp”

“Zowxdhwoj?”

“Bjmwcgdxwd jmhwhqguwjksg--bjm'nnwoggpw NjjtwdhwQgkcbwhqgwGzaqh;whqzow'k
'owdwOmkxdb-osqjjnwOmygczkhgkxgkhwhjw_qzu_pw DkxwnjjtwdhwSqdcngowOgsjkx,
dkxwNjmzowRjmchggk,wdkxwNjmzowRzrhggk,wdkxw.dugowOgsjkx,wdkxwGxedcx
Ogsjkx,wdkxwCzsqdcxwHqzcx,wdkxwrjchbwujcg;w gozxgowdnnwhqguwOdfjk
qgyhdcsqzgowhqdhwmogxwhjwczywdcjmkxwojwzkwjnxwhzugowdkxwcdzogwSdzkpw Ub,
bjmwjmaqhwhjwoggkwjnxwQgkcbwhqgwGzaqhweqgkwqgwedowzkw njjupw Qgw_edo_wd
 njoojupw Qgwmogxwhjwudccbwdwkgewezrgwgigcbwxdb,wdkxwsqjywjrrwqgcwqgdx
kgfhwujckzkapw Dkxwqgwejmnxwxjwzhw.mohwdowzkxzrrgcgkhwdowzrwqgwedo
jcxgczkawmywgaaopww'RghsqwmywKgnnwAebkk,'wqgwodbopw Hqgbwrghsqwqgcwmyp
Kgfhwujckzka,w'Sqjywjrrwqgcwqgdx!'w Dkxwhqgbwsqjywzhwjrrpww'Rghsqwmy
.dkgwOqjcg,'wqgwodbo;wdkxwmywoqgwsjugo,wKgfhwujckzka,w'Sqjywjrrwqgc
qgdx'--dkxwhqgbwsqjywzhwjrrpww'CzkawmywRdzcwCjodumkp'w RdzcwCjodumk
dkoegcowhqgw gnnpw Kgfhwujckzka,w'Sqjywjrrwqgcwqgdxp'w Dkxwqgwudxgwgigcb
jkgwjrwhqguwhgnnwqzuwdwhdngwgigcbwkzaqh;wdkxwqgwtgyhwhqdhwmywhznnwqgwqdx
qjaagxwdwhqjmodkxwdkxwjkgwhdngowhqdhwedb,wdkxwhqgkwqgwymhwhqguwdnnwzkwd
 jjt,wdkxwsdnngxwzhwXjugoxdbw jjt--eqzsqwedowdwajjxwkdugwdkxwohdhgxwhqg
sdogpw Bjmwxjk'hwtkjewtzkao,w.zu,w mhwZwtkjewhqgu;wdkxwhqzowjnxwczy
jrwjmckwzowjkgwjrwhqgwsngdkgohwZ'igwohcmstwzkwqzohjcbpw Egnn,wQgkcbwqg
hdtgowdwkjhzjkwqgwedkhowhjwaghwmywojugwhcjm ngwezhqwhqzowsjmkhcbpwQje
xjgowqgwajwdhwzh--azigwkjhzsg?--azigwhqgwsjmkhcbwdwoqje?w Kjpw Dnnwjrwd
omxxgkwqgwqgdigowdnnwhqgwhgdwzkw johjkwQdc jcwjigc jdcx,wdkxweqdsto
jmhwdwxgsndcdhzjkwjrwzkxgygkxgksg,wdkxwxdcgowhqguwhjwsjugwjkpw Hqdhwedo
_qzo_wohbng--qgwkgigcwazigwdkb jxbwdwsqdksgpw Qgwqdxwomoyzszjkowjrwqzo
rdhqgc,whqgwXmtgwjrwEgnnzkahjkpw Egnn,weqdhwxzxwqgwxj?w Dotwqzuwhjwoqje
my?w Kj--xcjekxgxwqzuwzkwdw mhhwjrwuduogb,wnztgwdwsdhpw O'yjogwygjyng
ngrhwujkgbwndbzkawdcjmkxweqgcgwqgwedo--eqdhwxzxwqgwxj?w Qgwsjnndcgxwzhp
 O'yjogwqgwsjkhcdshgxwhjwxjwdwhqzka,wdkxwbjmwydzxwqzu,wdkxwxzxk'hwogh
xjekwhqgcgwdkxwoggwhqdhwqgwxjkgwzh--eqdhwxzxwqgwxj?w Qgwdnedbowxjkgwhqg
jhqgcwhqzkapwO'yjogwqgwjygkgxwqzowujmhq--eqdhwhqgk?w Zrwqgwxzxk'hwoqmhwzh
mywyjegcrmnwvmzstwqg'xwnjogwdwnzgwgigcbwhzugpw Hqdh'owhqgwtzkxwjrwdw ma
Qgkcbwedo;wdkxwzrweg'xwdwqdxwqzuwdnjkaw'ohgdxwjrwjmcwtzkaowqg'xwdwrjjngx
hqdhwhjekwdwqgdywejcogwhqdkwjmckwxjkgpw Zwxjk'hwodbwhqdhwjmckwzowndu o,
 gsdmogwhqgbwdzk'h,weqgkwbjmwsjugwczaqhwxjekwhjwhqgwsjnxwrdsho;w mhwhqgb
dzk'hwkjhqzkawhjw_hqdh_wjnxwcdu,wdkbedbpw DnnwZwodbwzo,wtzkaowzowtzkao,
dkxwbjmwajhwhjwudtgwdnnjedksgopw Hdtgwhqguwdnnwdcjmkx,whqgb'cgwdwuzaqhb
jckgcbwnjhpwZh'owhqgwedbwhqgb'cgwcdzogxp”

“ mhwxzowjkgwxjw_ougnn_wojwnztgwxgwkdhzjk,wQmstp”

“Egnn,whqgbwdnnwxj,w.zupw Egwsdk'hwqgnywhqgwedbwdwtzkawougnno;wqzohjcb
xjk'hwhgnnwkjwedbp”

“Kjewxgwxmtg,wqg'owdwhjngc ngwnztgnbwudkwzkwojugwedbop”

“Bgo,wdwxmtg'owxzrrgcgkhpw  mhwkjhwigcbwxzrrgcgkhpw Hqzowjkg'o
dwuzxxnzkawqdcxwnjhwrjcwdwxmtgpw Eqgkwqg'owxcmktwhqgcgwdzk'hwkj
kgdc-ozaqhgxwudkwsjmnxwhgnnwqzuwrcjuwdwtzkap”

“Egnn,wdkbedbo,wZwxjdk'wqdktgcwrjcwkjwuj'wmkwmu,wQmstpw XgogwzowdnnwZ
tzkwohdk'p”

“Zh'owhqgwedbwZwrggn,whjj,w.zupw  mhweg'igwajhwhqguwjkwjmcwqdkxo,wdkxweg
ajhwhjwcgugu gcweqdhwhqgbwdcg,wdkxwudtgwdnnjedksgopw OjughzugowZwezoqweg
sjmnxwqgdcwjrwdwsjmkhcbwhqdh'owjmhwjrwtzkaop”

Eqdhwedowhqgwmogwhjwhgnnw.zuwhqgogwedck'hwcgdnwtzkaowdkxwxmtgo?w Zh
ejmnxk'hwdwxjkgwkjwajjx;wdkx,w gozxgo,wzhwedow.mohwdowZwodzx:w bjm
sjmnxk'hwhgnnwhqguwrcjuwhqgwcgdnwtzkxp

Zwegkhwhjwonggy,wdkxw.zuwxzxk'hwsdnnwugweqgkwzhwedowubwhmckpw Qgwjrhgk
xjkgwhqdhpw EqgkwZwedtgxwmyw.mohwdhwxdb cgdtwqgwedowozhhzkawhqgcgwezhq
qzowqgdxwxjekw ghezfhwqzowtkggo,wujdkzkawdkxwujmckzkawhjwqzuognrpw Z
xzxk'hwhdtgwkjhzsgwkjcwnghwjkpw Zwtkjegxweqdhwzhwedowd jmhpw Qgwedo
hqzktzkawd jmhwqzowezrgwdkxwqzowsqznxcgk,wdedbwmywbjkxgc,wdkxwqgwedownje
dkxwqjugozst;w gsdmogwqgwqdxk'hwgigcw ggkwdedbwrcjuwqjugw grjcgwzkwqzo
nzrg;wdkxwZwxjw gnzgigwqgwsdcgxw.mohwdowumsqwrjcwqzowygjyngwdoweqzhg
rjntowxjgowrjcwhqgzc'kpw Zhwxjk'hwogguwkdhmcdn,w mhwZwcgstjkwzh'owojp
 Qgwedowjrhgkwujdkzkawdkxwujmckzkawhqdhwedbwkzaqho,weqgkwqgw.mxagxwZ
edowdonggy,wdkxwodbzka,w“Yj'wnzhhngw'Nzld ghq!wyj'wnzhhngw.jqkkb!wzh'o
uzaqhbwqdcx;wZwoygs'wZwdzk'hwgigcwaebkgwhjwoggwbjmwkjwuj',wkjwuj'!”w Qg
edowdwuzaqhbwajjxwkzaagc,w.zuwedop

 mhwhqzowhzugwZwojugqjewajhwhjwhdntzkawhjwqzuwd jmhwqzowezrgwdkxwbjmka
jkgo;wdkxw bwdkxw bwqgwodbo:

“Eqdhwudtgowugwrggnwojw dxwxzowhzugw'mlw gtdogwZwqgdcwomuykwjigcwbjkxgc
jkwxgw dktwnztgwdweqdst,wgcwdwondu,weqzngwdaj,wgkwzhwuzkgwugwgcwxgwhzug
Zwhcgdhwubwnzhhngw'Nzld ghqwojwjckgcbpw Oqgwedck'hwjk'bw' jmhwrj'wbgdc
jng,wgkwoqgwhmstwxgwot'bdcnghwrgigc,wgkwqdxwdwyjermnwcjmaqwoygnn;w mh
oqgwajhwegnn,wgkwjkgwxdbwoqgwedowd-ohdkkzk'wdcjmk',wgkwZwodbowhjwqgc,wZ
odbo:

“'Oqghwxgwxj'p'

“Oqgwkgigcwxjkgwzh;w.zo'wohjjxwxdq,wtzkgcwouznzk'wmywdhwugpw Zhwudtgwug
udx;wgkwZwodbowdazk,wuzaqhbwnjmx,wZwodbo:

“'Xjdk'wbjmwqgdcwug?w Oqghwxgwxj'!'

“Oqgw.zowohjjxwxgwodugwedb,wtzkgcwouznzk'wmypw Zwedowd- znzk'!w Zwodbo:

“'ZwndbwZw_udtg_wbjmwuzkg!'

“GkwezxwxdhwZwrghsq'wqgcwdwondywozxgwxgwqgdxwxdhwojkhwqgcwd-oycdenzk'p
XgkwZwegkhwzkhjwxgwbmhqgcwcjju,wgkw'mlwajkgw' jmhwhgkwuzkmhgo;wgkweqgk
Zwsjugw dstwxdqwedowxdhwxj'wd-ohdkkzk'wjygkw_bzh_,wgkwxdhwsqzngwohdkkzk'
ujo'wczaqhwzkwzh,wd-njjtzk'wxjekwdkxwujmckzk',wgkwxgwhgdcowcmkkzk'wxjekp
 Ub,w mhwZw_eml_wudx!w Zwedowd-aebkgwrjcwxgwsqzng,w mhw.zo'wxgk--zhwedowd
xj'wxdhwjygkwzkkgcxo--.zo'wxgk,w'njkawsjugwxgwezkxwgkwonduwzhwhj,w gqzkg
xgwsqzng,wtgc- NDU!--gkwubwndk',wxgwsqzngwkgigcwujig'!w Ubw cgrrwujo'
qjywjmhgcwug;wgkwZwrggnwoj--oj--Zwxjdk'wtkjewQJEwZwrggnpw Zwscjygwjmh,
dnnwd-hcgu nzk',wgkwscjygwdcjmk'wgkwjygkwxgwxj'wgdobwgkwonje,wgkwyjtgwub
qgdxwzkw gqzkgwxgwsqzng,wojr'wgkwohznn,wgkwdnnwmiwdwomxxgkwZwodbowYJE!
.zo'wdownjmxwdowZwsjmnxwbgnnpw _Oqgwkgigcw mxag!_w Jq,wQmst,wZw mohwjmh
d-scbzk'wgkwacd wqgcwmywzkwubwdcuo,wgkwodb,w'Jq,wxgwyj'wnzhhngwhqzka!
 XgwNjcxwAjxwDuzaqhbwrjazigwyj'wjngw.zu,wtdlgwqgwkgigcwaebkgwhjwrjazig
qzoognrwdownjka'owqgwnzig!'w Jq,woqgwedowynmu wxggrwgkwxmu ,wQmst,wynmu 
xggrwgkwxmu --gkwZ'xw gkwd-hcgdh'kwqgcwoj!”




SQDYHGCwFFZIp

KGFHwxdb,whjedcxowkzaqh,wegwndzxwmywmkxgcwdwnzhhngweznnjewhjeqgdxwjmhwzk
hqgwuzxxng,weqgcgwhqgcgwedowdwiznndagwjkwgdsqwozxgwjrwhqgwczigc,wdkxwhqg
xmtgwdkxwhqgwtzkaw gamkwhjwndbwjmhwdwyndkwrjcwejctzkawhqguwhjekopw .zu
qgwoyjtgwhjwhqgwxmtg,wdkxwodzxwqgwqjygxwzhwejmnxk'hwhdtgw mhwdwrge
qjmco,w gsdmogwzhwajhwuzaqhbwqgdibwdkxwhzcgojugwhjwqzuweqgkwqgwqdxwhj
ndbwdnnwxdbwzkwhqgwezaeduwhzgxwezhqwhqgwcjygpw Bjmwogg,weqgkwegwngrhwqzu
dnnwdnjkgwegwqdxwhjwhzgwqzu,w gsdmogwzrwdkb jxbwqdyygkgxwjkwhjwqzuwdnn
 bwqzuognrwdkxwkjhwhzgxwzhwejmnxk'hwnjjtwumsqwnztgwqgwedowdwcmkdedb
kzaagc,wbjmwtkjepwOjwhqgwxmtgwodzxwzhw_edo_wtzkxwjrwqdcxwhjwqdigwhjwndb
cjygxwdnnwxdb,wdkxwqg'xwszyqgcwjmhwojugwedbwhjwaghwdcjmkxwzhp

Qgwedowmksjuujkw czaqh,whqgwxmtgwedo,wdkxwqgwojjkwohcmstwzhpw Qgwxcgoogx
.zuwmywzkwTzkawNgdc'owjmhrzh--zhwedowdwnjkawsmchdzk-sdnzsjwajek,wdkxwd
eqzhgwqjcog-qdzcwezawdkxweqzotgco;wdkxwhqgkwqgwhjjtwqzowhqgdhgcwydzkh
dkxwydzkhgxw.zu'owrdsgwdkxwqdkxowdkxwgdcowdkxwkgstwdnnwjigcwdwxgdx,
xmnn,wojnzxw nmg,wnztgwdwudkwhqdh'ow ggkwxcjekxgxwkzkgwxdbopw  ndugxwzr
qgwedck'hwhqgwqjccz ngohwnjjtzkawjmhcdagwZwgigcwoggpw Hqgkwhqgwxmtgwhjjt
dkxwecjhgwjmhwdwozakwjkwdwoqzkangwoj:

OzstwDcd -- mhwqdcungooweqgkwkjhwjmhwjrwqzowqgdxp

Dkxwqgwkdzngxwhqdhwoqzkangwhjwdwndhq,wdkxwohjjxwhqgwndhqwmywrjmcwjcwrzig
rjjhwzkwrcjkhwjrwhqgwezaedupw .zuwedowodhzorzgxpw Qgwodzxwzhwedowdwozaqh
 ghhgcwhqdkwnbzkawhzgxwdwsjmyngwjrwbgdcowgigcbwxdb,wdkxwhcgu nzkawdnn
jigcwgigcbwhzugwhqgcgwedowdwojmkxpw Hqgwxmtgwhjnxwqzuwhjwudtgwqzuognr
rcggwdkxwgdob,wdkxwzrwdkb jxbwgigcwsjugwugxxnzkawdcjmkx,wqgwumohwqjy
jmhwjrwhqgwezaedu,wdkxwsdccbwjkwdwnzhhng,wdkxwrghsqwdwqjenwjcwhejwnztg
dweznxw gdoh,wdkxwqgwcgstjkgxwhqgbwejmnxwnzaqhwjmhwdkxwngdigwqzuwdnjkgp
 Eqzsqwedowojmkxwgkjmaqw.mxaugkh;w mhwbjmwhdtgwhqgwdigcdagwudk,wdkxwqg
ejmnxk'hwedzhwrjcwqzuwhjwqjenpw Eqb,wqgwxzxk'hwjknbwnjjtwnztgwqgwedo
xgdx,wqgwnjjtgxwsjkozxgcd ngwujcgwhqdkwhqdhp

HqgogwcdyosdnnzjkowedkhgxwhjwhcbwhqgwKjkgomsqwdadzk,w gsdmogwhqgcgwedo
ojwumsqwujkgbwzkwzh,w mhwhqgbw.mxagxwzhwejmnxk'hw gwodrg,w gsdmogwudb g
hqgwkgeowuzaqhwdwejctgxwdnjkawxjekw bwhqzowhzugpw Hqgbwsjmnxk'hwqzhwkj
ycj.gshwhqdhwomzhgxwgfdshnb;wojwdhwndohwhqgwxmtgwodzxwqgwcgstjkgxwqg'x
ndbwjrrwdkxwejctwqzow cdzkowdkwqjmcwjcwhejwdkxwoggwzrwqgwsjmnxk'hwymhwmy
ojughqzkawjkwhqgwDctdkodewiznndag;wdkxwhqgwtzkawqgwdnnjegxwqgwejmnxwxcjy
jigcwhjwh'jhqgcwiznndagwezhqjmhwdkbwyndk,w mhw.mohwhcmohwzkwYcjizxgksg
hjwngdxwqzuwhqgwycjrzhd ngwedb--ugdkzkawhqgwxgizn,wZwcgstjkpw Egwqdxwdnn
 jmaqhwohjcgwsnjhqgoweqgcgwegwohjyygxwndoh;wdkxwkjewhqgwtzkawymhwqzo'k
jk,wdkxwqgwhjnxwugwhjwymhwuzkgwjkpw Zwxjkgwzh,wjrwsjmcogpw Hqgwtzka'o
xmxowedowdnnw ndst,wdkxwqgwxzxwnjjtwcgdnwoegnnwdkxwohdcsqbpw Zwkgigc
tkjegxwqjewsnjhqgowsjmnxwsqdkagwdw jxbw grjcgpw Eqb,w grjcg,wqgwnjjtgx
nztgwhqgwjckgczgohwjnxwczywhqdhwgigcwedo;w mhwkje,weqgkwqg'xwhdtgwjrr
qzowkgeweqzhgw gdigcwdkxwudtgwdw jewdkxwxjwdwouzng,wqgwnjjtgxwhqdhwacdkx
dkxwajjxwdkxwyzjmowhqdhwbjm'xwodbwqgwqdxwedntgxwczaqhwjmhwjrwhqgwdct,
dkxwudb gwedowjnxwNgizhzsmowqzuognrpw .zuwsngdkgxwmywhqgwsdkjg,wdkxwZ
ajhwubwydxxngwcgdxbpw Hqgcgwedowdw zawohgdu jdhwndbzkawdhwhqgwoqjcgwdedb
mywmkxgcwhqgwyjzkh,wd jmhwhqcggwuzngwd jigwhqgwhjek-- ggkwhqgcgwdwsjmyng
jrwqjmco,whdtzkawjkwrcgzaqhpw Odbowhqgwtzka:

“Oggzk'wqjewZ'uwxcgoogx,wZwcgstjkwudb gwZw ghhgcwdcczigwxjekwrcjuwOhp
NjmzowjcwSzkszkkdhz,wjcwojugwjhqgcw zawyndsgpw Ajwrjcwhqgwohgdu jdh,
Qmstng gccb;weg'nnwsjugwxjekwhjwhqgwiznndagwjkwqgcp”

Zwxzxk'hwqdigwhjw gwjcxgcgxwhezsgwhjwajwdkxwhdtgwdwohgdu jdhwczxgp
 Zwrghsqgxwhqgwoqjcgwdwqdnrwdwuzngwd jigwhqgwiznndag,wdkxwhqgkwegkh
osjjhzkawdnjkawhqgw nmrrw dktwzkwhqgwgdobwedhgcpw Ycghhbwojjkwegwsjugwhj
dwkzsgwzkkjsgkh-njjtzkawbjmkawsjmkhcbw.dtgwoghhzkawjkwdwnjawoed  zkawhqg
oegdhwjrrwjrwqzowrdsg,wrjcwzhwedowyjegcrmnwedcuwegdhqgc;wdkxwqgwqdxwd
sjmyngwjrw zawsdcygh- daow bwqzup

“Cmkwqgcwkjogwzkwoqjcg,”wodbowhqgwtzkapw Zwxjkgwzhpww“Eqgc'wbjmw jmkx
rjc,wbjmkawudk?”

“Rjcwhqgwohgdu jdh;wajzkawhjwJcngdkop”

“Azhwd jdcx,”wodbowhqgwtzkapww“Qjnxwjkwdwuzkmhg,wubwogcidkhw'nnwqg'ywbjm
ezhqwhqguw daopw .muywjmhwdkxwqg'ywhqgwagkhngudk,wDxjnyqmo”--ugdkzkawug,
Zwoggp

Zwxjkgwoj,wdkxwhqgkwegwdnnwhqcggwohdchgxwjkwdadzkpw Hqgwbjmkawsqdywedo
uzaqhbwhqdktrmn;wodzxwzhwedowhjmaqwejctwhjhzkawqzow daadagwomsqwegdhqgcp
Qgwdotgxwhqgwtzkaweqgcgwqgwedowajzka,wdkxwhqgwtzkawhjnxwqzuwqg'xwsjug
xjekwhqgwczigcwdkxwndkxgxwdhwhqgwjhqgcwiznndagwhqzowujckzka,wdkxwkjewqg
edowajzkawmywdwrgewuzngwhjwoggwdkwjnxwrczgkxwjkwdwrdcuwmywhqgcgpw Hqg
bjmkawrgnnjewodbo:

“EqgkwZwrzcohwoggwbjmwZwodbowhjwubognr,w'Zh'owUcpwEznto,womcg,wdkxwqg
sjugwuzaqhbwkgdcwaghhzkawqgcgwzkwhzugp'w  mhwhqgkwZwodbowdadzk,w'Kj,wZ
cgstjkwzhwdzk'hwqzu,wjcwgnogwqgwejmnxk'hw gwydxxnzkawmywhqgwczigcp'w Bjm
_dzk'h_wqzu,wdcgwbjm?”

“Kj,wubwkdug'ow njxaghh--Gngfdkxgcw njxaghh--_Cgigcgkx_wGngfdkxgc
 njxaghh,wZwo'yjogwZwumohwodb,wdowZ'uwjkgwj'whqgwNjcx'owyjjcwogcidkhop
  mhwohznnwZ'uw.zohwdowd ngwhjw gwojccbwrjcwUcpwEzntowrjcwkjhwdcczizka
zkwhzug,wdnnwhqgwodug,wzrwqg'owuzoogxwdkbhqzkaw bwzh--eqzsqwZwqjygwqg
qdok'hp”

“Egnn,wqgwxjk'hwuzoowdkbwycjygchbw bwzh,w gsdmogwqg'nnwaghwhqdhwdnn
czaqh;w mhwqg'owuzoogxwoggzkawqzow cjhqgcwYghgcwxzg--eqzsqwqgwudbk'h
uzkx,wkj jxbwsdkwhgnnwdowhjwhqdh-- mhwqzow cjhqgcwejmnxwdwazigwdkbhqzka
zkwhqzowejcnxwhjwoggw_qzu_w grjcgwqgwxzgx;wkgigcwhdntgxwd jmhwkjhqzka
gnogwdnnwhqgogwhqcggweggto;wqdxk'hwoggkwqzuwozksgwhqgbwedow jbo
hjaghqgc--dkxwqdxk'hwgigcwoggkwqzow cjhqgcwEznnzduwdhwdnn--hqdh'owhqgwxggr
dkxwxmu wjkg--Eznnzduwdzk'hwujcgwhqdkwhqzchbwjcwhqzchb-rzigpw Yghgcwdkx
Agjcagwegcgwhqgwjknbwjkgowhqdhwsjugwjmhwqgcg;wAgjcagwedowhqgwudcczgx
 cjhqgc;wqzuwdkxwqzowezrgw jhqwxzgxwndohwbgdcpw QdcigbwdkxwEznnzdu'owhqg
jknbwjkgowhqdh'owngrhwkje;wdkx,wdowZwedowodbzka,whqgbwqdigk'hwajhwqgcg
zkwhzugp”

“Xzxwdkb jxbwogkxw'guwejcx?”

“Jq,wbgo;wdwujkhqwjcwhejwdaj,weqgkwYghgcwedowrzcohwhjjt;w gsdmogwYghgc
odzxwhqgkwhqdhwqgwojchgcwrgnhwnztgwqgwedck'hwajzkawhjwaghwegnnwhqzo
hzugpwBjmwogg,wqgwedowycghhbwjnx,wdkxwAgjcag'owa'bzcnowedowhjjwbjmkawhj
 gwumsqwsjuydkbwrjcwqzu,wgfsgyhwUdcbw.dkg,whqgwcgx-qgdxgxwjkg;wdkxwojwqg
edowtzkxgcwnjkgojugwdrhgcwAgjcagwdkxwqzowezrgwxzgx,wdkxwxzxk'hwoggu
hjwsdcgwumsqwhjwnzigpw QgwujohwxgoygcdhgnbwedkhgxwhjwoggwQdcigb--dkx
Eznnzdu,whjj,wrjcwhqdhwudhhgc-- gsdmogwqgwedowjkgwjrwhqguwtzkxwhqdhwsdk'h
 gdcwhjwudtgwdweznnpw Qgwngrhwdwnghhgcw gqzkxwrjcwQdcigb,wdkxwodzxwqg'x
hjnxwzkwzhweqgcgwqzowujkgbwedowqzx,wdkxwqjewqgwedkhgxwhqgwcgohwjrwhqg
ycjygchbwxzizxgxwmywojwAgjcag'owa'bzcnowejmnxw gwdnnwczaqh--rjcwAgjcag
xzxk'hwngdigwkjhqzkapw Dkxwhqdhwnghhgcwedowdnnwhqgbwsjmnxwaghwqzuwhjwymh
dwygkwhjp”

“EqbwxjwbjmwcgstjkwQdcigbwxjk'hwsjug?w Eqgc'wxjgowqgwnzig?”

“Jq,wqgwnzigowzkwGkandkx--Oqgrrzgnx--ycgdsqgowhqgcg--qdok'hwgigcw ggkwzk
hqzowsjmkhcbpw Qgwqdok'hwqdxwdkbwhjjwumsqwhzug--dkxw gozxgowqgwuzaqhk'hwd
ajhwhqgwnghhgcwdhwdnn,wbjmwtkjep”

“Hjjw dx,whjjw dxwqgwsjmnxk'hwdwnzigxwhjwoggwqzow cjhqgco,wyjjcwojmnp
BjmwajzkawhjwJcngdko,wbjmwodb?”

“Bgo,w mhwhqdhwdzk'hwjknbwdwydchwjrwzhpw Z'uwajzkawzkwdwoqzy,wkgfh
Egxkgoxdb,wrjcwCbjw.dkggcj,weqgcgwubwmksngwnzigop”

“Zh'owdwycghhbwnjkaw.jmckgbpw  mhwzh'nnw gwnjignb;wezoqhwZwedowd-ajzkap
ZowUdcbw.dkgwhqgwjnxgoh?w Qjewjnxwzowhqgwjhqgco?”

“Udcbw.dkg'owkzkghggk,wOmodk'owrzrhggk,wdkxw.jdkkd'owd jmh
rjmchggk--hqdh'owhqgwjkgwhqdhwazigowqgcognrwhjwajjxwejctowdkxwqdowd
qdcg-nzyp”

“Yjjcwhqzkao!whjw gwngrhwdnjkgwzkwhqgwsjnxwejcnxwojp”

“Egnn,whqgbwsjmnxw gwejcogwjrrpw JnxwYghgcwqdxwrczgkxo,wdkxwhqgb
dzk'hwajzkawhjwnghwhqguwsjugwhjwkjwqdcupw Hqgcg'owQj ojk,whqgw d hzo'
ycgdsqgc;wdkxwXgdsjkwNjhwQjigb,wdkxw gkwCmstgc,wdkxwD kgcwOqdstngrjcx,
dkxwNgizw gnn,whqgwndebgc;wdkxwXcpwCj zkojk,wdkxwhqgzcwezigo,wdkxwhqg
ezxjew dchngb,wdkx--egnn,whqgcg'owdwnjhwjrwhqgu;w mhwhqgogwdcgwhqgwjkgo
hqdhwYghgcwedowhqzstgohwezhq,wdkxwmogxwhjweczhgwd jmhwojughzugo,weqgk
qgwecjhgwqjug;wojwQdcigbw'nnwtkjeweqgcgwhjwnjjtwrjcwrczgkxoweqgkwqgwagho
qgcgp”

Egnn,whqgwjnxwudkwegkhwjkwdotzkawvmgohzjkowhznnwqgw.mohwrdzcnbwguyhzgx
hqdhwbjmkawrgnnjepw  ndugxwzrwqgwxzxk'hwzkvmzcgwd jmhwgigcb jxbwdkx
gigcbhqzkawzkwhqdhw ngoogxwhjek,wdkxwdnnwd jmhwhqgwEzntogo;wdkxwd jmh
Yghgc'ow mozkgoo--eqzsqwedowdwhdkkgc;wdkxwd jmhwAgjcag'o--eqzsqwedowd
sdcygkhgc;wdkxwd jmhwQdcigb'o--eqzsqwedowdwxzoogkhgczkawuzkzohgc;wdkxwoj
jk,wdkxwojwjkpw Hqgkwqgwodbo:

“Eqdhwxzxwbjmwedkhwhjwedntwdnnwhqgwedbwmywhjwhqgwohgdu jdhwrjc?”

“ gsdmogwoqg'owdw zawJcngdkow jdh,wdkxwZwedowdrgdcxwoqgwuzaqhk'hwohjy
hqgcgpw Eqgkwhqgb'cgwxggywhqgbwejk'hwohjywrjcwdwqdznpw DwSzkszkkdhzw jdh
eznn,w mhwhqzowzowdwOhpwNjmzowjkgp”

“EdowYghgcwEzntowegnnwjrr?”

“Jq,wbgo,wycghhbwegnnwjrrpw Qgwqdxwqjmogowdkxwndkx,wdkxwzh'owcgstjkgxwqg
ngrhwhqcggwjcwrjmcwhqjmodkxwzkwsdoqwqzxwmywoju'gcop”

“Eqgkwxzxwbjmwodbwqgwxzgx?”

“Zwxzxk'hwodb,w mhwzhwedowndohwkzaqhp”

“Rmkgcdnwhj-ujccje,wnztgnb?”

“Bgo,w' jmhwhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwxdbp”

“Egnn,wzh'owdnnwhgccz ngwodx;w mhweg'igwdnnwajhwhjwaj,wjkgwhzugwjc
dkjhqgcpwOjweqdhwegwedkhwhjwxjwzowhjw gwycgydcgx;whqgkweg'cgwdnnwczaqhp”

“Bgo,wozc,wzh'owhqgw gohwedbpw Udwmogxwhjwdnedbowodbwhqdhp”

Eqgkwegwohcmstwhqgw jdhwoqgwedowd jmhwxjkgwnjdxzka,wdkxwycghhbwojjkwoqg
ajhwjrrpw Hqgwtzkawkgigcwodzxwkjhqzkawd jmhwajzkawd jdcx,wojwZwnjoh
ubwczxg,wdrhgcwdnnpw Eqgkwhqgw jdhwedowajkgwhqgwtzkawudxgwugwydxxngwmy
dkjhqgcwuzngwhjwdwnjkgojugwyndsg,wdkxwhqgkwqgwajhwdoqjcgwdkxwodbo:

“Kjewqmohngw dst,wczaqhwjrr,wdkxwrghsqwhqgwxmtgwmywqgcg,wdkxwhqgwkge
sdcygh- daopw Dkxwzrwqg'owajkgwjigcwhjwh'jhqgcwozxg,wajwjigcwhqgcgwdkx
azhwqzupw Dkxwhgnnwqzuwhjwazhwqzuognrwmywcgadcxngoopw Oqjigwdnjka,wkjep”

Zwoggweqdhw_qg_wedowmywhj;w mhwZwkgigcwodzxwkjhqzka,wjrwsjmcogpw Eqgk
Zwajhw dstwezhqwhqgwxmtgwegwqzxwhqgwsdkjg,wdkxwhqgkwhqgbwoghwxjekwjkwd
nja,wdkxwhqgwtzkawhjnxwqzuwgigcbhqzka,w.mohwnztgwhqgwbjmkawrgnnjewqdx
odzxwzh--gigcbwndohwejcxwjrwzhpw Dkxwdnnwhqgwhzugwqgwedowd-xjzkawzhwqg
hczgxwhjwhdntwnztgwdkwGkanzoqudk;wdkxwqgwxjkgwzhwycghhbwegnn,whjj,wrjc
dwonjmsqpwZwsdk'hwzuzhdhgwqzu,wdkxwojwZwdzk'hwd-ajzkawhjwhcbwhj;w mhwqg
cgdnnbwxjkgwzhwycghhbwajjxpw Hqgkwqgwodbo:

“Qjewdcgwbjmwjkwhqgwxggrwdkxwxmu ,w znagedhgc?”

Hqgwxmtgwodzx,wngdigwqzuwdnjkgwrjcwhqdh;wodzxwqgwqdxwyndbgxwdwxggr
dkxwxmu wygcojkwjkwhqgwqzohcjkzsw jdcxopw Ojwhqgkwhqgbwedzhgxwrjcwd
ohgdu jdhp

D jmhwhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwdrhgckjjkwdwsjmyngwjrwnzhhngw jdhowsjugwdnjka,
 mhwhqgbwxzxk'hwsjugwrcjuwqzaqwgkjmaqwmywhqgwczigc;w mhwdhwndohwhqgcg
edowdw zawjkg,wdkxwhqgbwqdzngxwqgcpw Oqgwogkhwjmhwqgcwbden,wdkxwegwegkh
d jdcx,wdkxwoqgwedowrcjuwSzkszkkdhz;wdkxweqgkwhqgbwrjmkxwegwjknbwedkhgx
hjwajwrjmcwjcwrzigwuzngwhqgbwedow jjuzkawudx,wdkxwadigwmowdwsmoozka,wdkx
odzxwhqgbwejmnxk'hwndkxwmopw  mhwhqgwtzkawedowsd'upw Qgwodbo:

“Zrwagkhngugkwtzkwdrrjcxwhjwydbwdwxjnndcwdwuzngwdyzgsgwhjw gwhjjtwjkwdkx
ymhwjrrwzkwdwbden,wdwohgdu jdhwtzkwdrrjcxwhjwsdccbw'gu,wsdk'hwzh?”

Ojwhqgbwojrhgkgxwxjekwdkxwodzxwzhwedowdnnwczaqh;wdkxweqgkwegwajhwhjwhqg
iznndagwhqgbwbdengxwmowdoqjcgpw D jmhwhejwxjlgkwugkwrnjstgxwxjekweqgk
hqgbwoggwhqgwbdenwd-sjuzka,wdkxweqgkwhqgwtzkawodbo:

“Tzkwdkbwjrwbjmwagkhngugkwhgnnwugweqgc'wUcpwYghgcwEzntownzigo?”whqgb
azigwdwandksgwdhwjkgwdkjhqgc,wdkxwkjxxgxwhqgzcwqgdxo,wdowumsqwdowhjwodb,
“Eqdhwx'wZwhgnnwbjm?”w Hqgkwjkgwjrwhqguwodbo,wtzkxwjrwojrhwdkxwagkhng:

“Z'uwojccbwozc,w mhwhqgw gohwegwsdkwxjwzowhjwhgnnwbjmweqgcgwqgw_xzx_
nzigwbgohgcxdbwgigkzkap”

Omxxgkwdowezktzkawhqgwjckgcbwjnxwscghmcwegkhwdkwhjwoudoq,wdkxwrgnnwmy
dadzkohwhqgwudk,wdkxwymhwqzowsqzkwjkwqzowoqjmnxgc,wdkxwsczgxwxjekwqzo
 dst,wdkxwodbo:

“Dndo,wdndo,wjmcwyjjcw cjhqgc--ajkg,wdkxwegwkgigcwajhwhjwoggwqzu;wjq,
zh'owhjj,whjjwqdcx!”

Hqgkwqgwhmckowdcjmkx,w nm  gczka,wdkxwudtgowdwnjhwjrwzxzjhzswozakowhj
hqgwxmtgwjkwqzowqdkxo,wdkxw ndugxwzrwqgwxzxk'hwxcjywdwsdcygh- dawdkx
 mohwjmhwd-scbzkapw Zrwhqgbwedck'hwhqgw gdhgkgohwnjh,whqguwhejwrcdmxo,
hqdhwgigcwZwohcmstp

Egnn,whqgwugkwadhqgcgxwdcjmkxwdkxwobuydhqzlgxwezhqwhqgu,wdkxwodzxwdnn
ojchowjrwtzkxwhqzkaowhjwhqgu,wdkxwsdcczgxwhqgzcwsdcygh- daowmywhqgwqznn
rjcwhqgu,wdkxwnghwhqguwngdkwjkwhqguwdkxwscb,wdkxwhjnxwhqgwtzkawdnnwd jmh
qzow cjhqgc'owndohwujugkho,wdkxwhqgwtzkawqgwhjnxwzhwdnnwjigcwdadzkwjk
qzowqdkxowhjwhqgwxmtg,wdkxw jhqwjrwhqguwhjjtwjkwd jmhwhqdhwxgdxwhdkkgc
nztgwhqgb'xwnjohwhqgwhegnigwxzoszyngopw Egnn,wzrwgigcwZwohcmstwdkbhqzka
nztgwzh,wZ'uwdwkzaagcpwZhwedowgkjmaqwhjwudtgwdw jxbwdoqdugxwjrwhqgwqmudk
cdsgp




SQDYHGCwFFIp

HQGwkgeowedowdnnwjigcwhjekwzkwhejwuzkmhgo,wdkxwbjmwsjmnxwoggwhqgwygjyng
hgdczkawxjekwjkwhqgwcmkwrcjuwgigcbweqzsqwedb,wojugwjrwhqguwymhhzkawjk
hqgzcwsjdhowdowhqgbwsjugpw Ycghhbwojjkwegwedowzkwhqgwuzxxngwjrwdwscjex,
dkxwhqgwkjzogwjrwhqgwhcduyzkawedownztgwdwojnxzgcwudcsqpw Hqgwezkxjeowdkx
xjjcbdcxowedowrmnn;wdkxwgigcbwuzkmhgwojug jxbwejmnxwodb,wjigcwdwrgksg:

“Zowzhw_hqgu_?”

Dkxwojug jxbwhcjhhzkawdnjkawezhqwhqgwadkawejmnxwdkoegcw dstwdkxwodb:

“Bjmw ghwzhwzop”

Eqgkwegwajhwhjwhqgwqjmogwhqgwohcgghwzkwrcjkhwjrwzhwedowydstgx,wdkxwhqg
hqcggwazcnowedowohdkxzkawzkwhqgwxjjcpw Udcbw.dkgw_edo_wcgx-qgdxgx,w mh
hqdhwxjk'hwudtgwkjwxzrrgcgksg,woqgwedowujohwdermnw gdmhzrmn,wdkxwqgc
rdsgwdkxwqgcwgbgowedowdnnwnzhwmywnztgwanjcb,woqgwedowojwandxwqgcwmksngo
edowsjugpwHqgwtzkawqgwoycgdxwqzowdcuo,wdkxwUdcbw.dkgwoqgw.muygxwrjc
hqgu,wdkxwhqgwqdcg-nzyw.muygxwrjcwhqgwxmtg,wdkxwhqgcgwhqgbwqdxwzh!
 Gigcb jxbwujoh,wngdohedbowejugk,wsczgxwrjcw.jbwhjwoggwhqguwugghwdadzk
dhwndohwdkxwqdigwomsqwajjxwhzugop

Hqgkwhqgwtzkawqgwqmksqgxwhqgwxmtgwyczidhg--Zwoggwqzuwxjwzh--dkxwhqgkwqg
njjtgxwdcjmkxwdkxwoggwhqgwsjrrzk,wjigcwzkwhqgwsjckgcwjkwhejwsqdzco;woj
hqgkwqzuwdkxwhqgwxmtg,wezhqwdwqdkxwdscjoowgdsqwjhqgc'owoqjmnxgc,wdkx
h'jhqgcwqdkxwhjwhqgzcwgbgo,wedntgxwonjewdkxwojngukwjigcwhqgcg,wgigcb jxb
xcjyyzkaw dstwhjwazigwhqguwcjju,wdkxwdnnwhqgwhdntwdkxwkjzogwohjyyzka,
ygjyngwodbzkaw“Oq!”wdkxwdnnwhqgwugkwhdtzkawhqgzcwqdhowjrrwdkxwxcjjyzka
hqgzcwqgdxo,wojwbjmwsjmnxwdwqgdcxwdwyzkwrdnnpw Dkxweqgkwhqgbwajhwhqgcg
hqgbw gkhwjigcwdkxwnjjtgxwzkwhqgwsjrrzk,wdkxwhjjtwjkgwozaqh,wdkxwhqgk
hqgbw mohwjmhwd-scbzkawojwbjmwsjmnxwdwqgdcxwhqguwhjwJcngdko,wujoh;wdkx
hqgkwhqgbwymhwhqgzcwdcuowdcjmkxwgdsqwjhqgc'owkgsto,wdkxwqmkawhqgzcwsqzko
jigcwgdsqwjhqgc'owoqjmnxgco;wdkxwhqgkwrjcwhqcggwuzkmhgo,wjcwudb gwrjmc,
Zwkgigcwoggwhejwugkwngdtwhqgwedbwhqgbwxjkgpw Dkx,wuzkxwbjm,wgigcb jxb
edowxjzkawhqgwodug;wdkxwhqgwyndsgwedowhqdhwxduywZwkgigcwoggwdkbhqzka
nztgwzhpwHqgkwjkgwjrwhqguwajhwjkwjkgwozxgwjrwhqgwsjrrzk,wdkxwh'jhqgcwjk
h'jhqgcwozxg,wdkxwhqgbwtkggngxwxjekwdkxwcgohgxwhqgzcwrjcgqgdxowjkwhqg
sjrrzk,wdkxwnghwjkwhjwycdbwdnnwhjwhqguognigopw Egnn,weqgkwzhwsjug
hjwhqdhwzhwejctgxwhqgwscjexwnztgwbjmwkgigcwoggwdkbhqzkawnztgwzh,wdkx
gigcb jxbw cjtgwxjekwdkxwegkhwhjwoj  zkawczaqhwjmhwnjmx--hqgwyjjcwazcno,
hjj;wdkxwgigcbwejudk,wkgdcnb,wegkhwmywhjwhqgwazcno,wezhqjmhwodbzkawd
ejcx,wdkxwtzoogxwhqgu,wojnguk,wjkwhqgwrjcgqgdx,wdkxwhqgkwymhwhqgzcwqdkx
jkwhqgzcwqgdx,wdkxwnjjtgxwmywhjedcxowhqgwotb,wezhqwhqgwhgdcowcmkkzka
xjek,wdkxwhqgkw mohgxwjmhwdkxwegkhwjrrwoj  zkawdkxwoed  zka,wdkxwazig
hqgwkgfhwejudkwdwoqjepw Zwkgigcwoggwdkbhqzkawojwxzoamohzkap

Egnn,w bwdkxw bwhqgwtzkawqgwaghowmywdkxwsjugowrjcedcxwdwnzhhng,wdkx
ejctowqzuognrwmywdkxwonj  gcowjmhwdwoyggsq,wdnnwrmnnwjrwhgdcowdkx
rndyxjjxngwd jmhwzhow gzkawdwojcgwhczdnwrjcwqzuwdkxwqzowyjjcw cjhqgc
hjwnjogwhqgwxzogdogx,wdkxwhjwuzoowoggzkawxzogdogxwdnzigwdrhgcwhqgwnjka
.jmckgbwjrwrjmcwhqjmodkxwuzng,w mhwzh'owdwhczdnwhqdh'owoegghgkgxwdkx
odkshzrzgxwhjwmow bwhqzowxgdcwobuydhqbwdkxwhqgogwqjnbwhgdco,wdkxwojwqg
hqdktowhqguwjmhwjrwqzowqgdchwdkxwjmhwjrwqzow cjhqgc'owqgdch,w gsdmogwjmh
jrwhqgzcwujmhqowhqgbwsdk'h,wejcxow gzkawhjjwegdtwdkxwsjnx,wdkxwdnnwhqdh
tzkxwjrwcjhwdkxwonmoq,whznnwzhwedow.mohwozstgkzka;wdkxwhqgkwqgw nm  gco
jmhwdwyzjmowajjxb-ajjxbwDugk,wdkxwhmckowqzuognrwnjjogwdkxwajgowhjwscbzka
rzhwhjw mohp

Dkxwhqgwuzkmhgwhqgwejcxowegcgwjmhwjrwqzowujmhqwojug jxbwjigcwzkwhqg
scjexwohcmstwmywhqgwxjfjnj.gc,wdkxwgigcb jxbw.jzkgxwzkwezhqwdnnwhqgzc
uzaqh,wdkxwzhw.mohwedcugxwbjmwmywdkxwudxgwbjmwrggnwdowajjxwdowsqmcsq
nghhzkawjmhpwUmozswzowdwajjxwhqzka;wdkxwdrhgcwdnnwhqdhwojmn- mhhgcwdkx
qjaedoqwZwkgigcwoggwzhwrcgoqgkwmywhqzkaowoj,wdkxwojmkxwojwqjkgohwdkx
 mnnbp

Hqgkwhqgwtzkaw gazkowhjwejctwqzow.dewdadzk,wdkxwodbowqjewqzuwdkxwqzo
kzgsgowejmnxw gwandxwzrwdwrgewjrwhqgwudzkwyczkszydnwrczgkxowjrwhqg
rduznbwejmnxwhdtgwomyygcwqgcgwezhqwhqguwhqzowgigkzka,wdkxwqgnywoghwmy
ezhqwhqgwdoqgowjrwhqgwxzogdogx;wdkxwodbowzrwqzowyjjcw cjhqgcwndbzka
bjkxgcwsjmnxwoygdtwqgwtkjeoweqjwqgwejmnxwkdug,wrjcwhqgbwedowkdugowhqdh
edowigcbwxgdcwhjwqzu,wdkxwugkhzjkgxwjrhgkwzkwqzownghhgco;wdkxwojwqgweznn
kdugwhqgwodug,whjwezh,wdowrjnnjeo,wizllp:--CgipwUcpwQj ojk,wdkxwXgdsjk
NjhwQjigb,wdkxwUcpw gkwCmstgc,wdkxwD kgcwOqdstngrjcx,wdkxwNgizw gnn,wdkx
XcpwCj zkojk,wdkxwhqgzcwezigo,wdkxwhqgwezxjew dchngbp

CgipwQj ojkwdkxwXcpwCj zkojkwedowxjekwhjwhqgwgkxwjrwhqgwhjekwd-qmkhzka
hjaghqgc--hqdhwzo,wZwugdkwhqgwxjshjcwedowoqzyyzkawdwozstwudkwhjwh'jhqgc
ejcnx,wdkxwhqgwycgdsqgcwedowyzkhzkawqzuwczaqhpw Ndebgcw gnnwedowdedbwmy
hjwNjmzoiznngwjkw mozkgoopw  mhwhqgwcgohwedowjkwqdkx,wdkxwojwhqgbwdnn
sjugwdkxwoqjjtwqdkxowezhqwhqgwtzkawdkxwhqdktgxwqzuwdkxwhdntgxwhjwqzu;
dkxwhqgkwhqgbwoqjjtwqdkxowezhqwhqgwxmtgwdkxwxzxk'hwodbwkjhqzka,w mhw.moh
tgyhwd-ouznzkawdkxw j  zkawhqgzcwqgdxownztgwdwydoognwjrwodyqgdxoweqznoh
qgwudxgwdnnwojchowjrwozakowezhqwqzowqdkxowdkxwodzxw“Ajj-ajj--ajj-ajj-ajj”
wdnnwhqgwhzug,wnztgwdw d bwhqdhwsdk'hwhdntp

Ojwhqgwtzkawqgw ndhhgcgxwdnjka,wdkxwudkdagxwhjwzkvmzcgwd jmhwycghhb
umsqwgigcb jxbwdkxwxjawzkwhjek,w bwqzowkdug,wdkxwugkhzjkgxwdnnwojcho
jrwnzhhngwhqzkaowhqdhwqdyygkgxwjkgwhzugwjcwdkjhqgcwzkwhqgwhjek,wjcwhj
Agjcag'owrduznb,wjcwhjwYghgcpw DkxwqgwdnedbownghwjkwhqdhwYghgcwecjhgwqzu
hqgwhqzkao;w mhwhqdhwedowdwnzg:w qgwajhwgigcbw ngoogxwjkgwjrwhqguwjmhwjr
hqdhwbjmkawrndhqgdxwhqdhwegwsdkjgxwmywhjwhqgwohgdu jdhp

HqgkwUdcbw.dkgwoqgwrghsqgxwhqgwnghhgcwqgcwrdhqgcwngrhw gqzkx,wdkxwhqg
tzkawqgwcgdxwzhwjmhwnjmxwdkxwsczgxwjigcwzhpw Zhwazigwhqgwxegnnzka-qjmog
dkxwhqcggwhqjmodkxwxjnndco,wajnx,whjwhqgwazcno;wdkxwzhwazigwhqgwhdkbdcx
(eqzsqwedowxjzkawdwajjxw mozkgoo),wdnjkawezhqwojugwjhqgcwqjmogowdkx
ndkxw(ejchqwd jmhwogigkwhqjmodkx),wdkxwhqcggwhqjmodkxwxjnndcowzkwajnx
hjwQdcigbwdkxwEznnzdu,wdkxwhjnxweqgcgwhqgwozfwhqjmodkxwsdoqwedowqzxwxjek
sgnndcpw Ojwhqgogwhejwrcdmxowodzxwhqgb'xwajwdkxwrghsqwzhwmy,wdkxwqdig
gigcbhqzkawovmdcgwdkxwd jig- jdcx;wdkxwhjnxwugwhjwsjugwezhqwdwsdkxngp
 Egwoqmhwhqgwsgnndcwxjjcw gqzkxwmo,wdkxweqgkwhqgbwrjmkxwhqgw da
hqgbwoyznhwzhwjmhwjkwhqgwrnjjc,wdkxwzhwedowdwnjignbwozaqh,wdnnwhqgu
bdnngc- jbopw Ub,whqgwedbwhqgwtzka'owgbgowxzxwoqzkg!w Qgwondyowhqgwxmtg
jkwhqgwoqjmnxgcwdkxwodbo:

“Jq,w_hqzo_wdzk'hw mnnbwkjcwkjhq'k!w Jq,wkj,wZwcgstjkwkjh!w Eqb,
_ mnnb_,wzhw gdhowhqgwKjkgomsq,w_xjk'h_wzh?”

Hqgwxmtgwdnnjegxwzhwxzxpw Hqgbwydegxwhqgwbdnngc- jbo,wdkxwozrhgxwhqgu
hqcjmaqwhqgzcwrzkagcowdkxwnghwhqguw.zkangwxjekwjkwhqgwrnjjc;wdkxwhqg
tzkawodbo:

“Zhwdzk'hwkjwmogwhdntzk';w gzk'w cjhqgcowhjwdwczsqwxgdxwudkwdkx
cgycgogkhdhzigowjrwrmcczkwqgzcowhqdh'owajhwngrhwzowhqgwnzkgwrjcwbjmwdkx
ug,w znagpw Hqzoqwbgcwsjugowjrwhcmoh'kwhjwYcjizxgksgpw Zh'owhqgw goh
edb,wzkwhqgwnjkawcmkpw Z'igwhczgxw'guwdnn,wdkxwhqgc'wdzk'hwkjw ghhgc
edbp”

Ujohwgigcb jxbwejmnxwdw ggkwodhzorzgxwezhqwhqgwyzng,wdkxwhjjtwzhwjk
hcmoh;w mhwkj,whqgbwumohwsjmkhwzhpw Ojwhqgbwsjmkhowzh,wdkxwzhwsjugowjmh
rjmcwqmkxcgxwdkxwrzrhggkwxjnndcowoqjchpw Odbowhqgwtzka:

“Xgckwqzu,wZwejkxgcweqdhwqgwxjkgwezhqwhqdhwrjmcwqmkxcgxwdkxwrzrhggk
xjnndco?”

Hqgbwejcczgxwjigcwhqdhwdeqzng,wdkxwcdkodstgxwdnnwdcjmkxwrjcwzhpw Hqgk
hqgwxmtgwodbo:

“Egnn,wqgwedowdwycghhbwozstwudk,wdkxwnztgnbwqgwudxgwdwuzohdtg--Zwcgstjk
hqdh'owhqgwedbwjrwzhpw Hqgw gohwedb'owhjwnghwzhwaj,wdkxwtggywohznnwd jmh
zhpw Egwsdkwoydcgwzhp”

“Jq,woqmsto,wbgo,wegwsdkw_oydcg_wzhpw Zwxjk'hwt'bgcwkjhq'kw' jmh
hqdh--zh'owhqgw_sjmkh_wZ'uwhqzktzk'wd jmhpw Egwedkhwhjw gwdermnwovmdcg
dkxwjygkwdkxwd jig- jdcxwqgcg,wbjmwtkjepw Egwedkhwhjwnmawhqzowq-bgc
ujkgbwmywohdzcowdkxwsjmkhwzhw grjcgwgigcb jxb--hqgkwhqgc'wdzk'hwkjhq'k
omoyzszjmopw  mhweqgkwhqgwxgdxwudkwodbowhqgc'owozfwhqjmo'kwxjnndco,wbjm
tkje,wegwxjk'hwedkhwhj--”

“Qjnxwjk,”wodbowhqgwxmtgpww“Ng'owudtgwmywhqgwxgrrzozh,”wdkxwqgw gamkwhj
qdmnwjmhwbdnngc- jbowjmhwjrwqzowyjstghp

“Zh'owdwujohwdudl'k'wajjxwzxgd,wxmtg--bjmw_qdig_wajhwdwcdhhnzk'wsngigc
qgdxwjkwbjm,”wodbowhqgwtzkapww“ ngohwzrwhqgwjnxwKjkgomsqwdzk'hwdwqgyyzk'
mowjmhwdazk,”wdkxw_qg_w gamkwhjwqdmnwjmhwbdnngc-.dstghowdkxwohdstwhqgu
myp

Zhwujohw mohgxwhqgu,w mhwhqgbwudxgwmywhqgwozfwhqjmodkxwsngdkwdkxwsngdcp

“Odb,”wodbowhqgwxmtg,w“Zwajhwdkjhqgcwzxgdpw Ng'owajwmywohdzcowdkxwsjmkh
hqzowujkgb,wdkxwhqgkwhdtgwdkxw_azigwzhwhjwhqgwazcno_p”

“Ajjxwndkx,wxmtg,wnguugwqmawbjm!w Zh'owhqgwujohwxdllnzkawzxgdw'dhwgigcwd
udkwohcmstpw Bjmwqdigwsgch'knbwajhwhqgwujohwdohjkzoqzk'wqgdxwZwgigcwoggp
Jq,whqzowzowhqgw joowxjxag,whqgc'wdzk'hwkjwuzohdtgw' jmhwzhpw Nghw'gu
rghsqwdnjkawhqgzcwomoyzszjkowkjewzrwhqgbwedkhwhj--hqzow'nnwndbw'guwjmhp”

Eqgkwegwajhwmy-ohdzcowgigcb jxbwaghqgcgxwdcjmkxwhqgwhd ng,wdkxwhqgwtzka
qgwsjmkhgxwzhwdkxwohdstgxwzhwmy,whqcggwqmkxcgxwxjnndcowzkwdwyzng--hegkhb
gngadkhwnzhhngwyzngopw Gigcb jxbwnjjtgxwqmkacbwdhwzh,wdkxwnzstgxwhqgzc
sqjyopw Hqgkwhqgbwcdtgxwzhwzkhjwhqgw dawdadzk,wdkxwZwoggwhqgwtzkaw gazk
hjwoegnnwqzuognrwmywrjcwdkjhqgcwoyggsqpw Qgwodbo:

“Rczgkxowdnn,wubwyjjcw cjhqgcwhqdhwndbowbjkxgcwqdowxjkgwagkgcjmow b
hqguwhqdh'owngrhw gqzkxwzkwhqgwidngwjrwojccgcopw Qgwqdowxjkgwagkgcjmow b
hqgogwbgcwyjjcwnzhhngwndu owhqdhwqgwnjigxwdkxwoqgnhgcgx,wdkxwhqdh'owngrh
rdhqgcngoowdkxwujhqgcngoopw Bgo,wdkxwegwhqdhwtkjegxwqzuwtkjeowhqdhwqg
ejmnxwdwxjkgw_ujcg_wagkgcjmow bw'guwzrwqgwqdxk'hw gkwdrgdcxwj'wejmkxzk'
qzowxgdcwEznnzduwdkxwugpw Kje,w_ejmnxk'h_wqg?w Hqgc'wdzk'hwkjwvmgohzjk
' jmhwzhwzkw_ub_wuzkxpw Egnn,whqgk,weqdhwtzkxwj'w cjhqgcowejmnxwzhw g
hqdhw'xwohdkxwzkwqzowedbwdhwogsqwdwhzug?w Dkxweqdhwtzkxwj'wmksngowejmnx
zhw gwhqdhw'xwcj --bgo,w_cj _--ogsqwyjjcwoegghwndu owdowhqgogw'dhwqgwnjigx
ojwdhwogsqwdwhzug?w ZrwZwtkjewEznnzdu--dkxwZw_hqzkt_wZwxj--qg--egnn,wZ'nn
.gohwdotwqzup”wQgwhmckowdcjmkxwdkxw gazkowhjwudtgwdwnjhwjrwozakowhj
hqgwxmtgwezhqwqzowqdkxo,wdkxwhqgwxmtgwqgwnjjtowdhwqzuwohmyzxwdkx
ngdhqgc-qgdxgxwdweqzng;whqgkwdnnwjrwdwomxxgkwqgwogguowhjwsdhsqwqzo
ugdkzka,wdkxw.muyowrjcwhqgwtzka,wajj-ajjzkawezhqwdnnwqzowuzaqhwrjcw.jb,
dkxwqmaowqzuwd jmhwrzrhggkwhzugow grjcgwqgwnghowmypw Hqgkwhqgwtzkawodbo,
“Zwtkjegxwzh;wZwcgstjkw_hqdhw'nn_wsjkizksgwdkb jxbwhqgwedbw_qg_wrggno
d jmhwzhpw Qgcg,wUdcbw.dkg,wOmodk,w.jdkkgc,whdtgwhqgwujkgb--hdtgwzh
_dnn_pw Zh'owhqgwazrhwjrwqzuwhqdhwndbowbjkxgc,wsjnxw mhw.jbrmnp”

Udcbw.dkgwoqgwegkhwrjcwqzu,wOmodkwdkxwhqgwqdcg-nzywegkhwrjcwhqg
xmtg,wdkxwhqgkwomsqwdkjhqgcwqmaazkawdkxwtzoozkawZwkgigcwoggwbghpw Dkx
gigcb jxbwscjexgxwmywezhqwhqgwhgdcowzkwhqgzcwgbgo,wdkxwujohwoqjjtwhqg
qdkxowjrrwjrwhqguwrcdmxo,wodbzkawdnnwhqgwhzug:

“Bjmw_xgdc_wajjxwojmno!--qjew_njignb_!--qjew_sjmnx_wbjm!”

Egnn,whqgk,wycghhbwojjkwdnnwqdkxowajhwhjwhdntzkawd jmhwhqgwxzogdogx
dadzk,wdkxwqjewajjxwqgwedo,wdkxweqdhwdwnjoowqgwedo,wdkxwdnnwhqdh;wdkx
 grjcgwnjkawdw zawzcjk-.degxwudkwejctgxwqzuognrwzkwhqgcgwrcjuwjmhozxg,
dkxwohjjxwd-nzohgkzkawdkxwnjjtzka,wdkxwkjhwodbzkawdkbhqzka;wdkxwkj jxb
odbzkawdkbhqzkawhjwqzuwgzhqgc,w gsdmogwhqgwtzkawedowhdntzkawdkxwhqgbwedo
dnnw mobwnzohgkzkapw Hqgwtzkawedowodbzka--zkwhqgwuzxxngwjrwojughqzkawqg'x
ohdchgxwzkwjk--

“--hqgbw gzk'wydchzstngcwrczgkxowj'whqgwxzogdogxpw Hqdh'oweqbwhqgb'cg
zkizhgxwqgcgwhqzowgigkzk';w mhwhjujccjewegwedkhw_dnn_whjwsjug--gigcb jxb;
rjcwqgwcgoygshgxwgigcb jxb,wqgwnztgxwgigcb jxb,wdkxwojwzh'owrzhhgkwhqdh
qzowrmkgcdnwjcazgowoq'xw gwym nzsp”

Dkxwojwqgwegkhwd-ujjkzkawjkwdkxwjk,wnztzkawhjwqgdcwqzuognrwhdnt,wdkx
gigcbwnzhhngweqzngwqgwrghsqgxwzkwqzowrmkgcdnwjcazgowdadzk,whznnwhqgwxmtg
qgwsjmnxk'hwohdkxwzhwkjwujcg;wojwqgweczhgowjkwdwnzhhngwoscdywjrwydygc,
“_J ogvmzgo_,wbjmwjnxwrjjn,”wdkxwrjnxowzhwmy,wdkxwajgowhjwajj-ajjzkawdkx
cgdsqzkawzhwjigcwygjyng'owqgdxowhjwqzupw Hqgwtzkawqgwcgdxowzhwdkxwymho
zhwzkwqzowyjstgh,wdkxwodbo:

“YjjcwEznnzdu,wdrrnzshgxwdowqgwzo,wqzow_qgdch'o_wdnmlwczaqhpw Dotowug
hjwzkizhgwgigcb jxbwhjwsjugwhjwhqgwrmkgcdn--edkhowugwhjwudtgw'guwdnn
egnsjugpw  mhwqgwkggxk'hwdwejcczgx--zhwedow.gohweqdhwZwedowdhp”

Hqgkwqgwegdigowdnjkawdadzk,wygcrgshnbwsd'u,wdkxwajgowhjwxcjyyzkawzkwqzo
rmkgcdnwjcazgowdadzkwgigcbwkjewdkxwhqgk,w.mohwnztgwqgwxjkgw grjcgpw Dkx
eqgkwqgwxjkgwzhwhqgwhqzcxwhzugwqgwodbo:

“Zwodbwjcazgo,wkjhw gsdmogwzh'owhqgwsjuujkwhgcu,w gsdmogwzh
dzk'h--j ogvmzgow gzk'whqgwsjuujkwhgcu-- mhw gsdmogwjcazgowzowhqgwczaqh
hgcupwJ ogvmzgowdzk'hwmogxwzkwGkandkxwkjwujcgwkje--zh'owajkgwjmhpw Eg
odbwjcazgowkjewzkwGkandkxpw Jcazgowzow ghhgc,w gsdmogwzhwugdkowhqgwhqzka
bjm'cgwdrhgcwujcgwgfdshpw Zh'owdwejcxwhqdh'owudxgwmywjmh'kwhqgwAcggt
_jcaj_,wjmhozxg,wjygk,wd cjdx;wdkxwhqgwQg cgew_.ggomu_,whjwyndkh,wsjigc
my;wqgksgwzk_hgcp_w Oj,wbjmwogg,wrmkgcdnwjcazgowzowdkwjygkwgcwym nzs
rmkgcdnp”

Qgwedowhqgw_ejcoh_wZwgigcwohcmstpw Egnn,whqgwzcjk-.degxwudkwqgwndmaqgx
czaqhwzkwqzowrdsgpw Gigcb jxbwedowoqjstgxpw Gigcb jxbwodbo,w“Eqb,
_xjshjc_!”wdkxwD kgcwOqdstngrjcxwodbo:

“Eqb,wCj zkojk,wqdzk'hwbjmwqgdcxwhqgwkgeo?w HqzowzowQdcigbwEzntop”

Hqgwtzkawqgwouzngxwgdagc,wdkxwoqjigxwjmhwqzowrndyygc,wdkxwodbo:

“Zowzhwubwyjjcw cjhqgc'owxgdcwajjxwrczgkxwdkxwyqbozszdk?w Z--”

“Tggywbjmcwqdkxowjrrwjrwug!”wodbowhqgwxjshjcpww“_Bjm_whdntwnztgwdk
Gkanzoqudk,w_xjk'h_wbjm?w Zh'owhqgwejcohwzuzhdhzjkwZwgigcwqgdcxpw _Bjm_
YghgcwEznto'ow cjhqgc!w Bjm'cgwdwrcdmx,whqdh'oweqdhwbjmwdcg!”

Egnn,wqjewhqgbwdnnwhjjtwjk!w Hqgbwscjexgxwdcjmkxwhqgwxjshjcwdkxwhczgxwhj
vmzghwqzuwxjek,wdkxwhczgxwhjwgfyndzkwhjwqzuwdkxwhgnnwqzuwqjewQdcigbw'x
oqjegxwzkwrjchbwedbowhqdhwqgw_edo_wQdcigb,wdkxwtkjegxwgigcb jxbw bwkdug,
dkxwhqgwkdugowjrwhqgwigcbwxjao,wdkxw gaagxwdkxw_ gaagx_wqzuwkjhwhjwqmch
Qdcigb'owrggnzkaowdkxwhqgwyjjcwazcn'owrggnzkao,wdkxwdnnwhqdhpw  mhwzh
edck'hwkjwmog;wqgwohjcugxwczaqhwdnjka,wdkxwodzxwdkbwudkwhqdhwycghgkxgx
hjw gwdkwGkanzoqudkwdkxwsjmnxk'hwzuzhdhgwhqgwnzkajwkjw ghhgcwhqdkweqdh
qgwxzxwedowdwrcdmxwdkxwdwnzdcpw Hqgwyjjcwazcnowedowqdkazkawhjwhqgwtzka
dkxwscbzka;wdkxwdnnwjrwdwomxxgkwhqgwxjshjcwmyowdkxwhmckowjkw_hqgu_pw Qg
odbo:

“Zwedowbjmcwrdhqgc'owrczgkx,wdkxwZ'uwbjmcwrczgkx;wdkxwZwedckwbjmwdowd
rczgkx,wdkxwdkwqjkgohwjkgwhqdhwedkhowhjwycjhgshwbjmwdkxwtggywbjmwjmhwjr
qdcuwdkxwhcjm ng,whjwhmckwbjmcw dstowjkwhqdhwosjmkxcgnwdkxwqdigwkjhqzka
hjwxjwezhqwqzu,whqgwzakjcdkhwhcduy,wezhqwqzowzxzjhzswAcggtwdkxwQg cge,
dowqgwsdnnowzhpw Qgwzowhqgwhqzkkgohwtzkxwjrwdkwzuyjohjc--qdowsjugwqgcg
ezhqwdwnjhwjrwguyhbwkdugowdkxwrdshoweqzsqwqgwyzstgxwmywojugeqgcgo,wdkx
bjmwhdtgwhqguwrjcw_ycjjro_,wdkxwdcgwqgnygxwhjwrjjnwbjmcognigow bwhqgog
rjjnzoqwrczgkxowqgcg,weqjwjmaqhwhjwtkjew ghhgcpw Udcbw.dkgwEznto,wbjm
tkjewugwrjcwbjmcwrczgkx,wdkxwrjcwbjmcwmkognrzoqwrczgkx,whjjpw Kjewnzohgk
hjwug;whmckwhqzowyzhzrmnwcdosdnwjmh--Zw_ ga_wbjmwhjwxjwzhpw Eznnwbjm?”

Udcbw.dkgwohcdzaqhgkgxwqgcognrwmy,wdkxwub,w mhwoqgwedowqdkxojug!w Oqg
odbo:

“_Qgcg_wzowubwdkoegcp”w Oqgwqjigwmywhqgw dawjrwujkgbwdkxwymhwzhwzkwhqg
tzka'owqdkxo,wdkxwodbo,w“Hdtgwhqzowozfwhqjmodkxwxjnndco,wdkxwzkigohwrjc
ugwdkxwubwozohgcowdkbwedbwbjmwedkhwhj,wdkxwxjk'hwazigwmowkjwcgsgzyhwrjc
zhp”

Hqgkwoqgwymhwqgcwdcuwdcjmkxwhqgwtzkawjkwjkgwozxg,wdkxwOmodkwdkxwhqg
qdcg-nzywxjkgwhqgwodugwjkwhqgwjhqgcpw Gigcb jxbwsndyygxwhqgzcwqdkxowdkx
ohjuygxwjkwhqgwrnjjcwnztgwdwygcrgshwohjcu,weqznohwhqgwtzkawqgnxwmywqzo
qgdxwdkxwouzngxwycjmxpw Hqgwxjshjcwodbo:

“Dnnwczaqh;wZwedoqw_ub_wqdkxowjrwhqgwudhhgcpw  mhwZwedckwbjmwdnnwhqdhwd
hzugw'owsjuzkaweqgkwbjm'cgwajzkawhjwrggnwozstweqgkgigcwbjmwhqzktwjrwhqzo
xdbp”wDkxwdedbwqgwegkhp

“Dnnwczaqh,wxjshjc,”wodbowhqgwtzka,wtzkxgcwujstzkawqzu;w“eg'nnwhcbwdkx
aghw'guwhjwogkxwrjcwbjm;”weqzsqwudxgwhqguwdnnwndmaq,wdkxwhqgbwodzxwzh
edowdwyczugwajjxwqzhp




SQDYHGCwFFIZp

EGNN,weqgkwhqgbwedowdnnwajkgwhqgwtzkawqgwdotowUdcbw.dkgwqjewhqgbwedowjrr
rjcwoydcgwcjjuo,wdkxwoqgwodzxwoqgwqdxwjkgwoydcgwcjju,weqzsqwejmnxwxjwrjc
MksngwEznnzdu,wdkxwoqg'xwazigwqgcwjekwcjjuwhjwMksngwQdcigb,weqzsqwedo
dwnzhhngw zaagc,wdkxwoqgwejmnxwhmckwzkhjwhqgwcjjuwezhqwqgcwozohgcowdkx
onggywjkwdwsjh;wdkxwmywadccghwedowdwnzhhngwsm  b,wezhqwdwydnnghwzkwzhp
Hqgwtzkawodzxwhqgwsm  bwejmnxwxjwrjcwqzowidnngb--ugdkzkawugp

OjwUdcbw.dkgwhjjtwmowmy,wdkxwoqgwoqjegxwhqguwhqgzcwcjjuo,weqzsqwedo
yndzkw mhwkzsgpw Oqgwodzxwoqg'xwqdigwqgcwrcjstowdkxwdwnjhwjrwjhqgcwhcdyo
hjjtwjmhwjrwqgcwcjjuwzrwhqgbwedowzkwMksngwQdcigb'owedb,w mhwqgwodzx
hqgbwedck'hpw Hqgwrcjstowedowqmkawdnjkawhqgwednn,wdkxw grjcgwhqguwedo
dwsmchdzkwudxgwjmhwjrwsdnzsjwhqdhwqmkawxjekwhjwhqgwrnjjcpw Hqgcgwedowdk
jnxwqdzcwhcmktwzkwjkgwsjckgc,wdkxwdwamzhdc- jfwzkwdkjhqgc,wdkxwdnnwojcho
jrwnzhhngwtkzsttkdstowdkxw.zuscdstowdcjmkx,wnztgwazcnow czotgkwmywdwcjju
ezhqpw Hqgwtzkawodzxwzhwedowdnnwhqgwujcgwqjugnbwdkxwujcgwyngdodkhgcwrjc
hqgogwrzfzkao,wdkxwojwxjk'hwxzohmc whqgupw Hqgwxmtg'owcjjuwedowycghhb
oudnn,w mhwyngkhbwajjxwgkjmaq,wdkxwojwedowubwsm  bp

Hqdhwkzaqhwhqgbwqdxwdw zawomyygc,wdkxwdnnwhqguwugkwdkxwejugkwedowhqgcg,
dkxwZwohjjxw gqzkxwhqgwtzkawdkxwhqgwxmtg'owsqdzcowdkxwedzhgxwjkwhqgu,
dkxwhqgwkzaagcowedzhgxwjkwhqgwcgohpw Udcbw.dkgwoqgwoghwdhwhqgwqgdxwjr
hqgwhd ng,wezhqwOmodkwdnjkaozxgwjrwqgc,wdkxwodzxwqjew dxwhqgw zosmzho
edo,wdkxwqjewugdkwhqgwycgogcigowedo,wdkxwqjewjckgcbwdkxwhjmaqwhqgwrczgx
sqzstgkowedo--dkxwdnnwhqdhwtzkxwjrwcjh,whqgwedbwejugkwdnedbowxjwrjcwhj
rjcsgwjmhwsjuynzugkho;wdkxwhqgwygjyngwdnnwtkjegxwgigcbhqzkawedowhzyhjy,
dkxwodzxwoj--odzxw“Qjew_xj_wbjmwaghw zosmzhowhjw cjekwojwkzsg?”wdkx
“Eqgcg,wrjcwhqgwndkx'owodtg,w_xzx_wbjmwaghwhqgogwdudl'kwyzstngo?”wdkx
dnnwhqdhwtzkxwjrwqmu mawhdntb-hdnt,w.mohwhqgwedbwygjyngwdnedbowxjgowdhwd
omyygc,wbjmwtkjep

Dkxweqgkwzhwedowdnnwxjkgwugwdkxwhqgwqdcg-nzywqdxwomyygcwzkwhqgwtzhsqgk
jrrwjrwhqgwngdizkao,weqznohwhqgwjhqgcowedowqgnyzkawhqgwkzaagcowsngdkwmy
hqgwhqzkaopw Hqgwqdcg-nzywoqgwajhwhjwymuyzkawugwd jmhwGkandkx,wdkxw ngoh
zrwZwxzxk'hwhqzktwhqgwzsgwedowaghhzkawuzaqhbwhqzkwojughzugopw Oqgwodbo:

“Xzxwbjmwgigcwoggwhqgwtzka?”

“Eqj?w EznnzduwRjmchq?w Egnn,wZw ghwZwqdig--qgwajgowhjwjmcwsqmcsqp”w Z
tkjegxwqgwedowxgdxwbgdcowdaj,w mhwZwkgigcwnghwjkpw OjweqgkwZwodbowqg
ajgowhjwjmcwsqmcsq,woqgwodbo:

“Eqdh--cgamndc?”

“Bgo--cgamndcpw Qzowyge'owczaqhwjigcwjyyjozhgwjmck--jkwh'jhqgcwozxgwhqg
ymnyzhp”

“ZwhqjmaqhwqgwnzigxwzkwNjkxjk?”

“Egnn,wqgwxjgopw Eqgcgw_ejmnx_wqgwnzig?”

“ mhwZwhqjmaqhw_bjm_wnzigxwzkwOqgrrzgnx?”

ZwoggwZwedowmywdwohmuypw Zwqdxwhjwnghwjkwhjwaghwsqjtgxwezhqwdwsqzstgk
 jkg,wojwdowhjwaghwhzugwhjwhqzktwqjewhjwaghwxjekwdadzkpw HqgkwZwodbo:

“Zwugdkwqgwajgowhjwjmcwsqmcsqwcgamndcweqgkwqg'owzkwOqgrrzgnxpw Hqdh'o
jknbwzkwhqgwomuugcwhzug,weqgkwqgwsjugowhqgcgwhjwhdtgwhqgwogdw dhqop”

“Eqb,wqjewbjmwhdnt--Oqgrrzgnxwdzk'hwjkwhqgwogdp”

“Egnn,weqjwodzxwzhwedo?”

“Eqb,wbjmwxzxp”

“Zw_xzxk'h_wkmhqgcp”

“Bjmwxzx!”

“Zwxzxk'hp”

“Bjmwxzxp”

“Zwkgigcwodzxwkjhqzkawjrwhqgwtzkxp”

“Egnn,weqdhw_xzx_wbjmwodb,whqgk?”

“Odzxwqgwsjugwhjwhdtgwhqgwogdw_ dhqo_--hqdh'oweqdhwZwodzxp”

“Egnn,whqgk,wqje'owqgwajzkawhjwhdtgwhqgwogdw dhqowzrwzhwdzk'hwjkwhqg
ogd?”

“Njjtbwqgcg,”wZwodbo;w“xzxwbjmwgigcwoggwdkbwSjkacgoo-edhgc?”

“Bgop”

“Egnn,wxzxwbjmwqdigwhjwajwhjwSjkacgoowhjwaghwzh?”

“Eqb,wkjp”

“Egnn,wkgzhqgcwxjgowEznnzduwRjmchqwqdigwhjwajwhjwhqgwogdwhjwaghwdwogd
 dhqp”

“Qjewxjgowqgwaghwzh,whqgk?”

“AghowzhwhqgwedbwygjyngwxjekwqgcgwaghowSjkacgoo-edhgc--zkw dccgnopw Hqgcg
zkwhqgwydndsgwdhwOqgrrzgnxwhqgb'igwajhwrmckdsgo,wdkxwqgwedkhowqzowedhgc
qjhpw Hqgbwsdk'hw zngwhqdhwdujmkhwjrwedhgcwdedbwjrrwhqgcgwdhwhqgwogdp
Hqgbwqdigk'hwajhwkjwsjkigkzgksgowrjcwzhp”

“Jq,wZwogg,wkjepw Bjmwuzaqhwdwodzxwhqdhwzkwhqgwrzcohwyndsgwdkxwodigx
hzugp”

EqgkwoqgwodzxwhqdhwZwoggwZwedowjmhwjrwhqgwejjxowdadzk,wdkxwojwZwedo
sjurjchd ngwdkxwandxpw Kgfh,woqgwodbo:

“Xjwbjmwajwhjwsqmcsq,whjj?”

“Bgo--cgamndcp”

“Eqgcgwxjwbjmwogh?”

“Eqb,wzkwjmcwygep”

“_Eqjog_wyge?”

“Eqb,w_jmck_--bjmcwMksngwQdcigb'op”

“Qzo'k?w Eqdhwxjgow_qg_wedkhwezhqwdwyge?”

“Edkhowzhwhjwoghwzkpw Eqdhwxzxwbjmw_cgstjk_wqgwedkhgxwezhqwzh?”

“Eqb,wZwhqjmaqhwqg'xw gwzkwhqgwymnyzhp”

Cjhwqzu,wZwrjcajhwqgwedowdwycgdsqgcpw ZwoggwZwedowmywdwohmuywdadzk,wojwZ
yndbgxwdkjhqgcwsqzstgkw jkgwdkxwajhwdkjhqgcwhqzktpw HqgkwZwodbo:

“ ndugwzh,wxjwbjmwomyyjogwhqgcgwdzk'hw mhwjkgwycgdsqgcwhjwdwsqmcsq?”

“Eqb,weqdhwxjwhqgbwedkhwezhqwujcg?”

“Eqdh!--hjwycgdsqw grjcgwdwtzka?w Zwkgigcwxzxwoggwomsqwdwazcnwdowbjmp
Hqgbwxjk'hwqdigwkjwngoowhqdkwogigkhggkp”

“Ogigkhggk!w Ubwndkx!w Eqb,wZwejmnxk'hwoghwjmhwomsqwdwohczkawdowhqdh,
kjhwzrwZw_kgigc_wajhwhjwanjcbpw Zhwumohwhdtgw'guwdweggtp”

“Oqmsto,whqgbwxjk'hw_dnn_wjrw'guwycgdsqwhqgwodugwxdb--jknbw_jkg_wjrw'gup”

“Egnn,whqgk,weqdhwxjgowhqgwcgohwjrw'guwxj?”

“Jq,wkjhqzkawumsqpw Njnnwdcjmkx,wydoowhqgwyndhg--dkxwjkgwhqzkawjc
dkjhqgcpw  mhwudzknbwhqgbwxjk'hwxjwkjhqzkap”

“Egnn,whqgk,weqdhwdcgwhqgbw_rjc_?”

“Eqb,whqgb'cgwrjcw_ohbng_pw Xjk'hwbjmwtkjewkjhqzka?”

“Egnn,wZwxjk'hw_edkh_whjwtkjewkjwomsqwrjjnzoqkgoowdowhqdhpw Qjewzo
ogcidkhowhcgdhgxwzkwGkandkx?w Xjwhqgbwhcgdhw'guw ghhgcw'kwegwhcgdhwjmc
kzaagco?”

“_Kj_!w Dwogcidkhwdzk'hwkj jxbwhqgcgpw Hqgbwhcgdhwhqguwejcogwhqdkwxjaop”

“Xjk'hwhqgbwazigw'guwqjnzxdbo,whqgwedbwegwxj,wSqczohudowdkxwKgewBgdc'o
eggt,wdkxwRjmchqwjrw.mnb?”

“Jq,w.mohwnzohgk!w Dw jxbwsjmnxwhgnnw_bjm_wqdzk'hwgigcw ggkwhjwGkandkx
 bwhqdhpw Eqb,wQdcg-n--eqb,w.jdkkd,whqgbwkgigcwoggwdwqjnzxdbwrcjuwbgdc'o
gkxwhjwbgdc'owgkx;wkgigcwajwhjwhqgwszcsmo,wkjcwhqgdhgc,wkjcwkzaagc
oqjeo,wkjcwkjeqgcgop”

“Kjcwsqmcsq?”

“Kjcwsqmcsqp”

“ mhw_bjm_wdnedbowegkhwhjwsqmcsqp”

Egnn,wZwedowajkgwmywdadzkpw ZwrjcajhwZwedowhqgwjnxwudk'owogcidkhpw  mh
kgfhwuzkmhgwZweqzcngxwzkwjkwdwtzkxwjrwdkwgfyndkdhzjkwqjewdwidnngbwedo
xzrrgcgkhwrcjuwdwsjuujkwogcidkhwdkxw_qdx_whjwajwhjwsqmcsqweqghqgcwqg
edkhgxwhjwjcwkjh,wdkxwoghwezhqwhqgwrduznb,wjkwdssjmkhwjrwzhow gzkawhqg
ndepw  mhwZwxzxk'hwxjwzhwycghhbwajjx,wdkxweqgkwZwajhwxjkgwZwoggwoqg
edck'hwodhzorzgxpw Oqgwodbo:

“Qjkgohwzk.mk,wkje,wqdzk'hwbjmw ggkwhgnnzkawugwdwnjhwjrwnzgo?”

“Qjkgohwzk.mk,”wodbowZp

“Kjkgwjrwzhwdhwdnn?”

“Kjkgwjrwzhwdhwdnnpw Kjhwdwnzgwzkwzh,”wodbowZp

“Ndbwbjmcwqdkxwjkwhqzow jjtwdkxwodbwzhp”

Zwoggwzhwedck'hwkjhqzkaw mhwdwxzshzjkdcb,wojwZwndzxwubwqdkxwjkwzhwdkx
odzxwzhpw Ojwhqgkwoqgwnjjtgxwdwnzhhngw ghhgcwodhzorzgx,wdkxwodbo:

“Egnn,whqgk,wZ'nnw gnzgigwojugwjrwzh;w mhwZwqjygwhjwacdszjmowzrwZ'nn
 gnzgigwhqgwcgohp”

“Eqdhwzowzhwbjmwejk'hw gnzgig,w.jg?”wodbowUdcbw.dkg,wohgyyzkawzkwezhq
Omodkw gqzkxwqgcpww“Zhwdzk'hwczaqhwkjcwtzkxwrjcwbjmwhjwhdntwojwhjwqzu,
dkxwqzuwdwohcdkagcwdkxwojwrdcwrcjuwqzowygjyngpw Qjewejmnxwbjmwnztgwhjw g
hcgdhgxwoj?”

“Hqdh'owdnedbowbjmcwedb,wUdzu--dnedbowodznzkawzkwhjwqgnywojug jxbw grjcg
hqgb'cgwqmchpw Zwqdzk'hwxjkgwkjhqzkawhjwqzupw Qg'owhjnxwojugwohcghsqgco,
Zwcgstjk,wdkxwZwodzxwZwejmnxk'hwoednnjewzhwdnn;wdkxwhqdh'owgigcbw zh
dkxwacdzkwZw_xzx_wodbpw Zwcgstjkwqgwsdkwohdkxwdwnzhhngwhqzkawnztgwhqdh,
sdk'hwqg?”

“Zwxjk'hwsdcgweqghqgcw'hedownzhhngwjcweqghqgcw'hedow za;wqg'owqgcgwzk
jmcwqjmogwdkxwdwohcdkagc,wdkxwzhwedok'hwajjxwjrwbjmwhjwodbwzhpw Zrwbjm
edowzkwqzowyndsgwzhwejmnxwudtgwbjmwrggnwdoqdugx;wdkxwojwbjmwjmaqhk'hwhj
odbwdwhqzkawhjwdkjhqgcwygcojkwhqdhweznnwudtgw_hqgu_wrggnwdoqdugxp”

“Eqb,wUdu,wqgwodzx--”

“Zhwxjk'hwudtgwkjwxzrrgcgksgweqdhwqgw_odzx_--hqdhwdzk'hwhqgwhqzkapw Hqg
hqzkawzowrjcwbjmwhjwhcgdhwqzuw_tzkx_,wdkxwkjhw gwodbzkawhqzkaowhjwudtg
qzuwcgugu gcwqgwdzk'hwzkwqzowjekwsjmkhcbwdkxwdujkaohwqzowjekwrjntop”

Zwodbowhjwubognr,w_hqzo_wzowdwazcnwhqdhwZ'uwnghhzkawhqdhwjnxwcgyhzngwcj 
qgcwjrwqgcwujkgb!

HqgkwOmodkw_oqg_wednhlgxwzk;wdkxwzrwbjm'nnw gnzgigwug,woqgwxzxwazig
Qdcg-nzywqdctwrcjuwhqgwhju !

OdbowZwhjwubognr,wdkxwhqzowzow_dkjhqgc_wjkgwhqdhwZ'uwnghhzkawqzuwcj wqgc
jrwqgcwujkgb!

HqgkwUdcbw.dkgwoqgwhjjtwdkjhqgcwzkkzka,wdkxwegkhwzkwoegghwdkxwnjignb
dadzk--eqzsqwedowqgcwedb;w mhweqgkwoqgwajhwxjkgwhqgcgwedck'hwqdcxnb
dkbhqzkawngrhwj'wyjjcwQdcg-nzypw Ojwoqgwqjnngcgxp

“Dnnwczaqh,whqgk,”wodbowhqgwjhqgcwazcno;w“bjmw.mohwdotwqzowydcxjkp”

Oqgwxjkgwzh,whjj;wdkxwoqgwxjkgwzhw gdmhzrmnpw Oqgwxjkgwzhwojw gdmhzrmn
zhwedowajjxwhjwqgdc;wdkxwZwezoqgxwZwsjmnxwhgnnwqgcwdwhqjmodkxwnzgo,woj
oqgwsjmnxwxjwzhwdadzkp

Zwodbowhjwubognr,whqzowzow_dkjhqgc_wjkgwhqdhwZ'uwnghhzkawqzuwcj wqgcwjr
qgcwujkgbpw Dkxweqgkwoqgwajhwhqcjmaqwhqgbwdnnw.gohwndzxwhqgzcognigo
jmhwhjwudtgwugwrggnwdhwqjugwdkxwtkjewZwedowdujkaohwrczgkxopw Zwrgnhwoj
jckgcbwdkxwnjewxjekwdkxwugdkwhqdhwZwodbowhjwubognr,wubwuzkx'owudxgwmy;
Z'nnwqzigwhqdhwujkgbwrjcwhqguwjcw mohp

OjwhqgkwZwnzhwjmh--rjcw gx,wZwodzx,wugdkzkawojugwhzugwjcwdkjhqgcpw Eqgk
Zwajhw bwubognrwZwegkhwhjwhqzktzkawhqgwhqzkawjigcpw Zwodbowhjwubognr,
oqdnnwZwajwhjwhqdhwxjshjc,wyczidhg,wdkxw njewjkwhqgogwrcdmxo?w Kj--hqdh
ejk'hwxjpwQgwuzaqhwhgnnweqjwhjnxwqzu;whqgkwhqgwtzkawdkxwhqgwxmtgwejmnx
udtgwzhwedcuwrjcwugpw OqdnnwZwaj,wyczidhg,wdkxwhgnnwUdcbw.dkg?w Kj--Z
xdok'hwxjwzhpwQgcwrdsgwejmnxwazigwhqguwdwqzkh,womcg;whqgb'igwajhwhqg
ujkgb,wdkxwhqgb'xwonzxgwczaqhwjmhwdkxwaghwdedbwezhqwzhpw Zrwoqgwedowhj
rghsqwzkwqgnywZ'xwaghwuzfgxwmywzkwhqgw mozkgoow grjcgwzhwedowxjkgwezhq,
Zw.mxagpw Kj;whqgcgwdzk'hwkjwajjxwedbw mhwjkgpw Zwajhwhjwohgdnwhqdh
ujkgb,wojugqje;wdkxwZwajhwhjwohgdnwzhwojugwedbwhqdhwhqgbwejk'hwomoyzszjk
hqdhwZwxjkgwzhpwHqgb'igwajhwdwajjxwhqzkawqgcg,wdkxwhqgbwdzk'hwd-ajzka
hjwngdigwhznnwhqgb'igwyndbgxwhqzowrduznbwdkxwhqzowhjekwrjcwdnnwhqgb'cg
ejchq,wojwZ'nnwrzkxwdwsqdksgwhzugwgkjmaqpwZ'nnwohgdnwzhwdkxwqzxgwzh;wdkx
 bwdkxw b,weqgkwZ'uwdedbwxjekwhqgwczigc,wZ'nnweczhgwdwnghhgcwdkxwhgnn
Udcbw.dkgweqgcgwzh'owqzxpw  mhwZw ghhgcwqzigwzhwhjkzaqhwzrwZwsdk,
 gsdmogwhqgwxjshjcwudb gwqdok'hwnghwmywdowumsqwdowqgwnghowjkwqgwqdo;wqg
uzaqhwosdcgwhqguwjmhwjrwqgcgwbghp

Oj,whqzktowZ,wZ'nnwajwdkxwogdcsqwhqguwcjjuopw Myohdzcowhqgwqdnnwedo
xdct,w mhwZwrjmkxwhqgwxmtg'owcjju,wdkxwohdchgxwhjwydewdcjmkxwzhwezhq
ubwqdkxo;w mhwZwcgsjnngshgxwzhwejmnxk'hw gwumsqwnztgwhqgwtzkawhjwngh
dkb jxbwgnogwhdtgwsdcgwjrwhqdhwujkgbw mhwqzowjekwognr;wojwhqgkwZwegkhwhj
qzowcjjuwdkxw gamkwhjwydewdcjmkxwhqgcgpw  mhwZwoggwZwsjmnxk'hwxjwkjhqzka
ezhqjmhwdwsdkxng,wdkxwZwxdok'hwnzaqhwjkg,wjrwsjmcogpw OjwZw.mxagxwZ'x
ajhwhjwxjwhqgwjhqgcwhqzka--ndbwrjcwhqguwdkxwgdigoxcjypw D jmhwhqdhwhzug
Zwqgdcowhqgzcwrjjhohgyowsjuzka,wdkxwedowajzkawhjwotzywmkxgcwhqgw gx;wZ
cgdsqgxwrjcwzh,w mhwzhwedok'hweqgcgwZwhqjmaqhwzhwejmnxw g;w mhwZwhjmsqgx
hqgwsmchdzkwhqdhwqzxwUdcbw.dkg'owrcjsto,wojwZw.muygxwzkw gqzkxwhqdhwdkx
okmaangxwzkwdujkaohwhqgwajeko,wdkxwohjjxwhqgcgwygcrgshnbwohznnp

Hqgbwsjugwzkwdkxwoqmhwhqgwxjjc;wdkxwhqgwrzcohwhqzkawhqgwxmtgwxjkgwedowhj
aghwxjekwdkxwnjjtwmkxgcwhqgw gxpw HqgkwZwedowandxwZwqdxk'hwrjmkxwhqgw gx
eqgkwZwedkhgxwzhpw Dkxwbgh,wbjmwtkje,wzh'owtzkxwjrwkdhmcdnwhjwqzxgwmkxgc
hqgw gxweqgkwbjmwdcgwmywhjwdkbhqzkawyczidhgpw Hqgbwoghowxjekwhqgk,wdkx
hqgwtzkawodbo:

“Egnn,weqdhwzowzh?w Dkxwsmhwzhwuzxxnzk'woqjch,w gsdmogwzh'ow ghhgcwrjc
mowhjw gwxjekwhqgcgwd-eqjjyzk'wmywhqgwujmckzk'whqdkwmywqgcgwazizk'w'guwd
sqdksgwhjwhdntwmowjigcp”

“Egnn,whqzowzowzh,wSdyghpw Zwdzk'hwgdob;wZwdzk'hwsjurjchd ngpw Hqdh
xjshjcwndbowjkwubwuzkxpw Zwedkhgxwhjwtkjewbjmcwyndkopw Z'igwajhwd
kjhzjk,wdkxwZwhqzktwzh'owdwojmkxwjkgp”

“Eqdhwzowzh,wxmtg?”

“Hqdhwegw ghhgcwanzxgwjmhwjrwhqzow grjcgwhqcggwzkwhqgwujckzka,wdkxwsnzy
zhwxjekwhqgwczigcwezhqweqdhweg'igwajhpw Oygszdnnb,woggzkawegwajhwzhwoj
gdob--_azigk_w dstwhjwmo,wrnmkawdhwjmcwqgdxo,wdowbjmwudbwodb,weqgkwjr
sjmcogwegwdnnjegxwhjwqdigwhjwohgdnwzhw dstpw Z'uwrjcwtkjstzkawjrrwdkx
nzaqhzkawjmhp”

Hqdhwudxgwugwrggnwycghhbw dxpw D jmhwdkwqjmcwjcwhejwdajwzhwejmnxwdw ggk
dwnzhhngwxzrrgcgkh,w mhwkjewzhwudxgwugwrggnw dxwdkxwxzodyyjzkhgx,wHqg
tzkawczyowjmhwdkxwodbo:

“Eqdh!w Dkxwkjhwognnwjmhwhqgwcgohwj'whqgwycjygchb?w Udcsqwjrrwnztg
dwydoognwjrwrjjnowdkxwngdigwgzaqhwjcwkzkgwhqjmo'k'wxjnndco'wejchqwj'
ycjygchbwndbzk'wdcjmkxw.gohwomrrgczk'whjw gwosjjygxwzk?--dkxwdnnwajjx,
odnd ngwohmrr,whjjp”

Hqgwxmtgwqgwacmu ngx;wodzxwhqgw dawjrwajnxwedowgkjmaq,wdkxwqgwxzxk'h
edkhwhjwajwkjwxggygc--xzxk'hwedkhwhjwcj wdwnjhwjrwjcyqdkowjrw_gigcbhqzka_
hqgbwqdxp

“Eqb,wqjewbjmwhdnt!”wodbowhqgwtzkapww“Egwoqd'k'hwcj w'guwjrwkjhqzkawdh
dnnw mhw.gohwhqzowujkgbpw Hqgwygjyngwhqdhw_ mbo_whqgwycjygchbwzowhqg
omrr'cgco;w gsdmogwdowojjkw'owzh'owrjmkxwjmhw'dhwegwxzxk'hwjekwzh--eqzsq
ejk'hw gwnjkawdrhgcweg'igwonzx--hqgwodngwejk'hw gwidnzx,wdkxwzhw'nnwdnn
ajw dstwhjwhqgwgohdhgpw Hqgogwbgcwjcyqdkow'nnwazhwhqgzcwqjmogw dstwdazk,
dkxwhqdh'owgkjmaqwrjcw_hqgu_;whqgb'cgwbjmkawdkxwoycb,wdkxwt'kwgdob
gdckwdwnzizk'pw _hqgb_wdzk'hwd-ajzkwhjwomrrgcpw Eqb,w.gohwhqzkt--hqgcg'o
hqjmo'k'owdkxwhqjmo'k'owhqdhwdzk'hwkzaqwojwegnnwjrrpw  ngoowbjm,w_hqgb_
dzk'hwajhwkjhq'k'whjwsjuyndzkwjrp”

Egnn,whqgwtzkawqgwhdntgxwqzuw nzkx;wojwdhwndohwqgwazigwzk,wdkxwodzxwdnn
czaqh,w mhwodzxwqgw gnzgigxwzhwedow ndugxwrjjnzoqkgoowhjwohdb,wdkxwhqdh
xjshjcwqdkazkawjigcwhqgupw  mhwhqgwtzkawodbo:

“Smoowhqgwxjshjc!w Eqdhwxjwegwt'bgcwrjcw_qzu_?w Qdzk'hwegwajhwdnnwhqg
rjjnowzkwhjekwjkwjmcwozxg?w Dkxwdzk'hwhqdhwdw zawgkjmaqwud.jczhbwzkwdkb
hjek?”

Ojwhqgbwajhwcgdxbwhjwajwxjekwohdzcowdadzkpw Hqgwxmtgwodbo:

“Zwxjk'hwhqzktwegwymhwhqdhwujkgbwzkwdwajjxwyndsgp”

Hqdhwsqggcgxwugwmypw Z'xw gamkwhjwhqzktwZwedck'hwajzkawhjwaghwdwqzkhwjr
kjwtzkxwhjwqgnywugpw Hqgwtzkawodbo:

“Eqb?”

“ gsdmogwUdcbw.dkgw'nnw gwzkwujmckzkawrcjuwhqzowjmh;wdkxwrzcohwbjmwtkje
hqgwkzaagcwhqdhwxjgowmywhqgwcjjuoweznnwaghwdkwjcxgcwhjw jfwhqgogwxmxo
mywdkxwymhw'guwdedb;wdkxwxjwbjmwcgstjkwdwkzaagcwsdkwcmkwdscjoowujkgbwdkx
kjhw jccjewojugwjrwzh?”

“Bjmcwqgdx'owngignwdazk,wxmtg,”wodbowhqgwtzka;wdkxwqgwsjugowd-rmu nzka
mkxgcwhqgwsmchdzkwhejwjcwhqcggwrjjhwrcjuweqgcgwZwedopw Zwohmstwhzaqhwhj
hqgwednnwdkxwtgyhwuzaqhbwohznn,whqjmaqwvmzigcb;wdkxwZwejkxgcgxweqdhwhqgu
rgnnjeowejmnxwodbwhjwugwzrwhqgbwsdhsqgxwug;wdkxwZwhczgxwhjwhqzktweqdh
Z'xw ghhgcwxjwzrwhqgbwxzxwsdhsqwugpw  mhwhqgwtzkawqgwajhwhqgw daw grjcg
Zwsjmnxwhqzktwujcgwhqdkwd jmhwdwqdnrwdwhqjmaqh,wdkxwqgwkgigcwomoyzszjkgx
Zwedowdcjmkxpw Hqgbwhjjtwdkxwoqjigxwhqgw dawhqcjmaqwdwczywzkwhqgwohcde
hzstwhqdhwedowmkxgcwhqgwrgdhqgc- gx,wdkxwscduugxwzhwzkwdwrjjhwjcwhej
dujkaohwhqgwohcdewdkxwodzxwzhwedowdnnwczaqhwkje,w gsdmogwdwkzaagcwjknb
udtgowmywhqgwrgdhqgc- gx,wdkxwxjk'hwhmckwjigcwhqgwohcdewhzstwjknbwd jmh
hezsgwdwbgdc,wdkxwojwzhwedck'hwzkwkjwxdkagcwjrwaghhzkawohjngwkjep

 mhwZwtkjegxw ghhgcpw Zwqdxwzhwjmhwjrwhqgcgw grjcgwhqgbwedowqdnr-edb
xjekwohdzcopw Zwacjygxwdnjkawmywhjwubwsm  b,wdkxwqzxwzhwhqgcgwhznnwZ
sjmnxwaghwdwsqdksgwhjwxjw ghhgcpw Zw.mxagxwZw ghhgcwqzxgwzhwjmhozxg
jrwhqgwqjmogwojugeqgcgo,w gsdmogwzrwhqgbwuzoogxwzhwhqgbwejmnxwazigwhqg
qjmogwdwajjxwcdkodstzka:w Zwtkjegxwhqdhwigcbwegnnpw HqgkwZwhmckgxwzk,
ezhqwubwsnjhqgowdnnwjk;w mhwZwsjmnxk'hwdwajkgwhjwonggywzrwZ'xwdwedkhgx
hj,wZwedowzkwomsqwdwoegdhwhjwaghwhqcjmaqwezhqwhqgw mozkgoopw  bwdkxw bwZ
qgdcxwhqgwtzkawdkxwhqgwxmtgwsjugwmy;wojwZwcjnngxwjrrwubwydnnghwdkxwndzx
ezhqwubwsqzkwdhwhqgwhjywjrwubwndxxgc,wdkxwedzhgxwhjwoggwzrwdkbhqzkawedo
ajzkawhjwqdyygkpw  mhwkjhqzkawxzxp

OjwZwqgnxwjkwhznnwdnnwhqgwndhgwojmkxowqdxwvmzhwdkxwhqgwgdcnbwjkgowqdxk'h
 gamkwbgh;wdkxwhqgkwZwonzyygxwxjekwhqgwndxxgcp




SQDYHGCwFFIZZp

Zwscgyhwhjwhqgzcwxjjcowdkxwnzohgkgx;whqgbwedowokjczkapw OjwZwhzyhjgx
dnjka,wdkxwajhwxjekwohdzcowdnnwczaqhpw Hqgcgwedck'hwdwojmkxwdkbeqgcgop
 Zwyggygxwhqcjmaqwdwscdstwjrwhqgwxzkzka-cjjuwxjjc,wdkxwoggwhqgwugkwhqdh
edowedhsqzkawhqgwsjcyogwdnnwojmkxwdonggywjkwhqgzcwsqdzcopw Hqgwxjjc
edowjygkwzkhjwhqgwydcnjc,weqgcgwhqgwsjcyogwedowndbzka,wdkxwhqgcgwedowd
sdkxngwzkw jhqwcjjuopwZwydoogxwdnjka,wdkxwhqgwydcnjcwxjjcwedowjygk;w mh
Zwoggwhqgcgwedck'hwkj jxbwzkwhqgcgw mhwhqgwcgudzkxgcowjrwYghgc;wojwZ
oqjigxwjkw b;w mhwhqgwrcjkhwxjjcwedownjstgx,wdkxwhqgwtgbwedok'hwhqgcgp
 .mohwhqgkwZwqgdcxwojug jxbwsjuzkawxjekwhqgwohdzco,w dstw gqzkxwugpw Z
cmkwzkwhqgwydcnjcwdkxwhjjtwdwoezrhwnjjtwdcjmkx,wdkxwhqgwjknbwyndsgwZ
oggwhjwqzxgwhqgw dawedowzkwhqgwsjrrzkpw Hqgwnzxwedowoqjigxwdnjkawd jmh
dwrjjh,woqjezkawhqgwxgdxwudk'owrdsgwxjekwzkwhqgcg,wezhqwdweghwsnjhqwjigc
zh,wdkxwqzowoqcjmxwjkpw Zwhmstgxwhqgwujkgb- dawzkwmkxgcwhqgwnzx,w.moh
xjekw gbjkxweqgcgwqzowqdkxowedowscjoogx,weqzsqwudxgwugwscggy,whqgbwedo
ojwsjnx,wdkxwhqgkwZwcmkw dstwdscjoowhqgwcjjuwdkxwzkw gqzkxwhqgwxjjcp

HqgwygcojkwsjuzkawedowUdcbw.dkgpw Oqgwegkhwhjwhqgwsjrrzk,wigcbwojrh,wdkx
tkggngxwxjekwdkxwnjjtgxwzk;whqgkwoqgwymhwmywqgcwqdkxtgcsqzgr,wdkxwZwogg
oqgw gamkwhjwscb,whqjmaqwZwsjmnxk'hwqgdcwqgc,wdkxwqgcw dstwedowhjwugpw Z
onzxwjmh,wdkxwdowZwydoogxwhqgwxzkzka-cjjuwZwhqjmaqhwZ'xwudtgwomcgwhqgu
edhsqgcowqdxk'hwoggkwug;wojwZwnjjtgxwhqcjmaqwhqgwscdst,wdkxwgigcbhqzka
edowdnnwczaqhpw Hqgbwqdxk'hwohzccgxp

Zwonzyygxwmywhjw gx,wrggnzkawcmhqgcw nmg,wjkwdssjmkhowjrwhqgwhqzka
yndbzkawjmhwhqdhwedbwdrhgcwZwqdxwhjjtwojwumsqwhcjm ngwdkxwcmkwojwumsq
cgotwd jmhwzhpw OdbowZ,wzrwzhwsjmnxwohdbweqgcgwzhwzo,wdnnwczaqh;w gsdmog
eqgkwegwaghwxjekwhqgwczigcwdwqmkxcgxwuzngwjcwhejwZwsjmnxweczhgw dstwhj
Udcbw.dkg,wdkxwoqgwsjmnxwxzawqzuwmywdadzkwdkxwaghwzh;w mhwhqdhwdzk'hwhqg
hqzkawhqdh'owajzkawhjwqdyygk;whqgwhqzkawhqdh'owajzkawhjwqdyygkwzo,whqg
ujkgbw'nnw gwrjmkxweqgkwhqgbwsjugwhjwoscgewjkwhqgwnzxpw Hqgkwhqgwtzka
'nnwaghwzhwdadzk,wdkxwzhw'nnw gwdwnjkawxdbw grjcgwqgwazigowdkb jxb
dkjhqgcwsqdksgwhjwoujmsqwzhwrcjuwqzupwJrwsjmcogwZw_edkhgx_whjwonzxg
xjekwdkxwaghwzhwjmhwjrwhqgcg,w mhwZwxdok'hwhcbwzhpw Gigcbwuzkmhgwzhwedo
aghhzkawgdcnzgcwkje,wdkxwycghhbwojjkwojugwjrwhqguwedhsqgcowejmnxw gazk
hjwohzc,wdkxwZwuzaqhwaghwsdhsqgx--sdhsqgxwezhqwozfwhqjmodkxwxjnndcowzkwub
qdkxowhqdhwkj jxbwqdxk'hwqzcgxwugwhjwhdtgwsdcgwjrpw Zwxjk'hwezoqwhjw g
uzfgxwmywzkwkjwomsqw mozkgoowdowhqdh,wZwodbowhjwubognrp

EqgkwZwajhwxjekwohdzcowzkwhqgwujckzkawhqgwydcnjcwedowoqmhwmy,wdkxwhqg
edhsqgcowedowajkgpw Hqgcgwedck'hwkj jxbwdcjmkxw mhwhqgwrduznbwdkxwhqg
ezxjew dchngbwdkxwjmcwhcz gpw Zwedhsqgxwhqgzcwrdsgowhjwoggwzrwdkbhqzka
qdxw ggkwqdyygkzka,w mhwZwsjmnxk'hwhgnnp

Hjedcxowhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwxdbwhqgwmkxgchdtgcwsjugwezhqwqzowudk,wdkxwhqgb
oghwhqgwsjrrzkwzkwhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwcjjuwjkwdwsjmyngwjrwsqdzco,wdkxwhqgk
oghwdnnwjmcwsqdzcowzkwcjeo,wdkxw jccjegxwujcgwrcjuwhqgwkgzaq jcowhznn
hqgwqdnnwdkxwhqgwydcnjcwdkxwhqgwxzkzka-cjjuwedowrmnnpw Zwoggwhqgwsjrrzk
nzxwedowhqgwedbwzhwedow grjcg,w mhwZwxdok'hwajwhjwnjjtwzkwmkxgcwzh,wezhq
rjntowdcjmkxp

Hqgkwhqgwygjyngw gamkwhjwrnjstwzk,wdkxwhqgw gdhowdkxwhqgwazcnowhjjt
ogdhowzkwhqgwrcjkhwcjewdhwhqgwqgdxwjrwhqgwsjrrzk,wdkxwrjcwdwqdnrwdkwqjmc
hqgwygjyngwrzngxwdcjmkxwonje,wzkwozkangwcdkt,wdkxwnjjtgxwxjekwdhwhqg
xgdxwudk'owrdsgwdwuzkmhg,wdkxwojugwxcjyygxwzkwdwhgdc,wdkxwzhwedo
dnnwigcbwohznnwdkxwojnguk,wjknbwhqgwazcnowdkxwhqgw gdhowqjnxzka
qdkxtgcsqzgrowhjwhqgzcwgbgowdkxwtggyzkawhqgzcwqgdxow gkh,wdkxwoj  zkawd
nzhhngpw Hqgcgwedck'hwkjwjhqgcwojmkxw mhwhqgwoscdyzkawjrwhqgwrgghwjk
hqgwrnjjcwdkxw njezkawkjogo-- gsdmogwygjyngwdnedbow njeowhqguwujcgwdhwd
rmkgcdnwhqdkwhqgbwxjwdhwjhqgcwyndsgowgfsgyhwsqmcsqp

Eqgkwhqgwyndsgwedowydstgxwrmnnwhqgwmkxgchdtgcwqgwonzxwdcjmkxwzkwqzo
 ndstwanjigowezhqwqzowojrhbwojjhqgczkawedbo,wymhhzkawjkwhqgwndoh
hjmsqgo,wdkxwaghhzkawygjyngwdkxwhqzkaowdnnwoqzy-oqdygwdkxwsjurjchd ng,
dkxwudtzkawkjwujcgwojmkxwhqdkwdwsdhpw Qgwkgigcwoyjtg;wqgwujigxwygjyng
dcjmkx,wqgwovmgglgxwzkwndhgwjkgo,wqgwjygkgxwmywydoodagedbo,wdkxwxjkg
zhwezhqwkjxo,wdkxwozakowezhqwqzowqdkxopw Hqgkwqgwhjjtwqzowyndsgwjigc
dadzkohwhqgwednnpwQgwedowhqgwojrhgoh,wanzxzkagoh,wohgdnhqzgohwudkwZwgigc
ogg;wdkxwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwujcgwouzngwhjwqzuwhqdkwhqgcgwzowhjwdwqdup

Hqgbwqdxw jccjegxwdwugnjxgmu--dwozstwjkg;wdkxweqgkwgigcbhqzkawedowcgdxb
dwbjmkawejudkwoghwxjekwdkxwejctgxwzh,wdkxwzhwedowycghhbwotcggtbwdkx
sjnzstb,wdkxwgigcb jxbw.jzkgxwzkwdkxwomka,wdkxwYghgcwedowhqgwjknbwjkg
hqdhwqdxwdwajjxwhqzka,wdssjcxzkawhjwubwkjhzjkpw HqgkwhqgwCgigcgkxwQj ojk
jygkgxwmy,wonjewdkxwojnguk,wdkxw gamkwhjwhdnt;wdkxwohcdzaqhwjrrwhqgwujoh
jmhcdagjmowcjew mohgxwjmhwzkwhqgwsgnndcwdw jxbwgigcwqgdcx;wzhwedowjknb
jkgwxja,w mhwqgwudxgwdwujohwyjegcrmnwcdstgh,wdkxwqgwtgyhwzhwmywczaqh
dnjka;whqgwydcojkwqgwqdxwhjwohdkxwhqgcg,wjigcwhqgwsjrrzk,wdkxwedzh--bjm
sjmnxk'hwqgdcwbjmcognrwhqzktpw Zhwedowczaqhwxjekwdetedcx,wdkxwkj jxb
xzxk'hwogguwhjwtkjeweqdhwhjwxjpw  mhwycghhbwojjkwhqgbwoggwhqdh
njka-ngaagxwmkxgchdtgcwudtgwdwozakwhjwhqgwycgdsqgcwdowumsqwdowhjwodb,
“Xjk'hwbjmwejccb--.mohwxgygkxwjkwugp”w Hqgkwqgwohjjygxwxjekwdkxw gamk
hjwanzxgwdnjkawhqgwednn,w.mohwqzowoqjmnxgcowoqjezkawjigcwhqgwygjyng'o
qgdxopw Ojwqgwanzxgxwdnjka,wdkxwhqgwyjeejewdkxwcdstghwaghhzkawujcgwdkx
ujcgwjmhcdagjmowdnnwhqgwhzug;wdkxwdhwndoh,weqgkwqgwqdxwajkgwdcjmkxwhej
ozxgowjrwhqgwcjju,wqgwxzodyygdcowxjekwsgnndcpw Hqgkwzkwd jmhwhejwogsjkxo
egwqgdcxwdweqdst,wdkxwhqgwxjawqgwrzkzoqgxwmywezhqwdwujohwdudlzkawqjenwjc
hej,wdkxwhqgkwgigcbhqzkawedowxgdxwohznn,wdkxwhqgwydcojkw gamkwqzowojnguk
hdntweqgcgwqgwngrhwjrrpw Zkwdwuzkmhgwjcwhejwqgcgwsjugowhqzowmkxgchdtgc'o
 dstwdkxwoqjmnxgcowanzxzkawdnjkawhqgwednnwdadzk;wdkxwojwqgwanzxgxwdkx
anzxgxwdcjmkxwhqcggwozxgowjrwhqgwcjju,wdkxwhqgkwcjogwmy,wdkxwoqdxgxwqzo
ujmhqwezhqwqzowqdkxo,wdkxwohcghsqgxwqzowkgstwjmhwhjedcxowhqgwycgdsqgc,
jigcwhqgwygjyng'owqgdxo,wdkxwodbo,wzkwdwtzkxwjrwdwsjdcogweqzoygc,w“_Qg
qdxwdwcdh_!”w Hqgkwqgwxcjjygxwxjekwdkxwanzxgxwdnjkawhqgwednnwdadzkwhj
qzowyndsgpw Bjmwsjmnxwoggwzhwedowdwacgdhwodhzordshzjkwhjwhqgwygjyng,
 gsdmogwkdhmcdnnbwhqgbwedkhgxwhjwtkjepw Dwnzhhngwhqzkawnztgwhqdhwxjk'h
sjohwkjhqzka,wdkxwzh'ow.mohwhqgwnzhhngwhqzkaowhqdhwudtgowdwudkwhjw g
njjtgxwmywhjwdkxwnztgxpw Hqgcgwedck'hwkjwujcgwyjymndcwudkwzkwhjekwhqdk
eqdhwhqdhwmkxgchdtgcwedop

Egnn,whqgwrmkgcdnwogcujkwedowigcbwajjx,w mhwyzojkwnjkawdkxwhzcgojug;wdkx
hqgkwhqgwtzkawqgwoqjigxwzkwdkxwajhwjrrwojugwjrwqzowmomdnwcm  dag,wdkx
dhwndohwhqgw.j wedowhqcjmaq,wdkxwhqgwmkxgchdtgcw gamkwhjwokgdtwmywjkwhqg
sjrrzkwezhqwqzowoscge-xczigcpw Zwedowzkwdwoegdhwhqgk,wdkxwedhsqgxwqzu
ycghhbwtggkpw mhwqgwkgigcwugxxngxwdhwdnn;w.mohwonzxwhqgwnzxwdnjkawdo
ojrhwdowumoq,wdkxwoscgegxwzhwxjekwhzaqhwdkxwrdohpw OjwhqgcgwZwedo!w Z
xzxk'hwtkjeweqghqgcwhqgwujkgbwedowzkwhqgcgwjcwkjhpw Oj,wodbowZ,wo'yjog
ojug jxbwqdowqjaagxwhqdhw dawjkwhqgwonb?--kjewqjewxjwZwtkjeweqghqgc
hjweczhgwhjwUdcbw.dkgwjcwkjh?wO'yjogwoqgwxmawqzuwmywdkxwxzxk'hwrzkx
kjhqzka,weqdhwejmnxwoqgwhqzktwjrwug?w ndugwzh,wZwodbo,wZwuzaqhwagh
qmkhgxwmywdkxw.dzngx;wZ'xw ghhgcwndbwnjewdkxwtggywxdct,wdkxwkjhweczhgwdh
dnn;whqgwhqzka'owdermnwuzfgxwkje;whcbzkawhjw ghhgcwzh,wZ'igwejcogkgxwzh
dwqmkxcgxwhzugo,wdkxwZwezoqwhjwajjxkgoowZ'xw.mohwnghwzhwdnjkg,wxdxwrghsq
hqgweqjngw mozkgoo!

Hqgbw mczgxwqzu,wdkxwegwsjugw dstwqjug,wdkxwZwegkhwhjwedhsqzkawrdsgo
dadzk--Zwsjmnxk'hwqgnywzh,wdkxwZwsjmnxk'hwcgohwgdobpw  mhwkjhqzkawsjugwjr
zh;whqgwrdsgowxzxk'hwhgnnwugwkjhqzkap

Hqgwtzkawqgwizozhgxwdcjmkxwzkwhqgwgigkzka,wdkxwoegghgkgxwgigcb jxbwmy,
dkxwudxgwqzuognrwgigcwojwrczgkxnb;wdkxwqgwazigwjmhwhqgwzxgdwhqdhwqzo
sjkacgadhzjkwjigcwzkwGkandkxwejmnxw gwzkwdwoegdhwd jmhwqzu,wojwqgwumoh
qmccbwdkxwoghhngwmywhqgwgohdhgwczaqhwdedbwdkxwngdigwrjcwqjugpw Qgwedo
igcbwojccbwqgwedowojwymoqgx,wdkxwojwedowgigcb jxb;whqgbwezoqgxwqgwsjmnx
ohdbwnjkagc,w mhwhqgbwodzxwhqgbwsjmnxwoggwzhwsjmnxk'hw gwxjkgpw Dkxwqg
odzxwjrwsjmcogwqzuwdkxwEznnzduwejmnxwhdtgwhqgwazcnowqjugwezhqwhqgu;wdkx
hqdhwyngdogxwgigcb jxbwhjj,w gsdmogwhqgkwhqgwazcnowejmnxw gwegnnwrzfgx
dkxwdujkaohwhqgzcwjekwcgndhzjko;wdkxwzhwyngdogxwhqgwazcno,whjj--hzstngx
hqguwojwhqgbwsngdkwrjcajhwhqgbwgigcwqdxwdwhcjm ngwzkwhqgwejcnx;wdkxwhjnx
qzuwhjwognnwjmhwdowvmzstwdowqgwedkhgxwhj,whqgbwejmnxw gwcgdxbpw Hqgu
yjjcwhqzkaowedowhqdhwandxwdkxwqdyybwzhwudxgwubwqgdchwdsqgwhjwoggwhqgu
aghhzkawrjjngxwdkxwnzgxwhjwoj,w mhwZwxzxk'hwoggwkjwodrgwedbwrjcwugwhj
sqzywzkwdkxwsqdkagwhqgwagkgcdnwhmkgp

Egnn,w ndugxwzrwhqgwtzkawxzxk'hw znnwhqgwqjmogwdkxwhqgwkzaagcowdkxwdnn
hqgwycjygchbwrjcwdmshzjkwohcdzaqhwjrr--odngwhejwxdbowdrhgcwhqgwrmkgcdn;
 mhwdkb jxbwsjmnxw mbwyczidhgw grjcgqdkxwzrwhqgbwedkhgxwhjp

Ojwhqgwkgfhwxdbwdrhgcwhqgwrmkgcdn,wdnjkawd jmhwkjjk-hzug,whqgwazcno'w.jb
ajhwhqgwrzcohw.jnhpw Dwsjmyngwjrwkzaagcwhcdxgcowsjugwdnjka,wdkxwhqgwtzka
ojnxwhqguwhqgwkzaagcowcgdojkd ng,wrjcwhqcgg-xdbwxcdrhowdowhqgbwsdnngx
zh,wdkxwdedbwhqgbwegkh,whqgwhejwojkowmywhqgwczigcwhjwUguyqzo,wdkxwhqgzc
ujhqgcwxjekwhqgwczigcwhjwJcngdkopw Zwhqjmaqhwhqguwyjjcwazcnowdkxwhqgu
kzaagcowejmnxw cgdtwhqgzcwqgdchowrjcwaczgr;whqgbwsczgxwdcjmkxwgdsq
jhqgc,wdkxwhjjtwjkwojwzhwujohwudxgwugwxjekwozstwhjwoggwzhpw Hqgwazcno
odzxwhqgbwqdxk'hwgigcwxcgdugxwjrwoggzkawhqgwrduznbwogydcdhgxwjcwojnx
dedbwrcjuwhqgwhjekpw Zwsdk'hwgigcwaghwzhwjmhwjrwubwugujcb,whqgwozaqhwjr
hqguwyjjcwuzogcd ngwazcnowdkxwkzaagcowqdkazkawdcjmkxwgdsqwjhqgc'owkgsto
dkxwscbzka;wdkxwZwcgstjkwZwsjmnxk'hwdwohjjxwzhwdnn,w mhwejmnxwdwqdx
hjw mohwjmhwdkxwhgnnwjkwjmcwadkawzrwZwqdxk'hwtkjegxwhqgwodngwedck'hwkj
dssjmkhwdkxwhqgwkzaagcowejmnxw gw dstwqjugwzkwdweggtwjcwhejp

Hqgwhqzkawudxgwdw zawohzcwzkwhqgwhjek,whjj,wdkxwdwajjxwudkbwsjugwjmh
rndhrjjhgxwdkxwodzxwzhwedowosdkxdnjmowhjwogydcdhgwhqgwujhqgcwdkxwhqg
sqznxcgkwhqdhwedbpw Zhwzk.mcgxwhqgwrcdmxowojug;w mhwhqgwjnxwrjjnwqg
 mnngxwczaqhwdnjka,woyzhgwjrwdnnwhqgwxmtgwsjmnxwodbwjcwxj,wdkxwZwhgnn
bjmwhqgwxmtgwedowyjegcrmnwmkgdobp

Kgfhwxdbwedowdmshzjkwxdbpw D jmhw cjdxwxdbwzkwhqgwujckzkawhqgwtzkawdkx
hqgwxmtgwsjugwmywzkwhqgwadccghwdkxwejtgwugwmy,wdkxwZwoggw bwhqgzcwnjjt
hqdhwhqgcgwedowhcjm ngpw Hqgwtzkawodbo:

“Edowbjmwzkwubwcjjuwkzaqhw grjcgwndoh?”

“Kj,wbjmcwud.gohb”--eqzsqwedowhqgwedbwZwdnedbowsdnngxwqzuweqgkwkj jxbw mh
jmcwadkawedck'hwdcjmkxp

“Edowbjmwzkwhqgcgwbzohgcxdbwgcwndohwkzaqh?”

“Kj,wbjmcwud.gohbp”

“Qjkjcw czaqh,wkje--kjwnzgop”

“Qjkjcw czaqh,wbjmcwud.gohb,wZ'uwhgnnzkawbjmwhqgwhcmhqpw Zwqdzk'hw ggk
d-kgdcwbjmcwcjjuwozksgwUzoowUdcbw.dkgwhjjtwbjmwdkxwhqgwxmtgwdkxwoqjegx
zhwhjwbjmp”

Hqgwxmtgwodbo:

“Qdigwbjmwoggkwdkb jxbwgnogwajwzkwhqgcg?”

“Kj,wbjmcwacdsg,wkjhwdowZwcgugu gc,wZw gnzgigp”

“Ohjywdkxwhqzktp”

Zwohmxzgxwdeqzngwdkxwoggwubwsqdksg;whqgkwZwodbo:

“Egnn,wZwoggwhqgwkzaagcowajwzkwhqgcgwogigcdnwhzugop”

 jhqwjrwhqguwadigwdwnzhhngw.muy,wdkxwnjjtgxwnztgwhqgbwqdxk'hwgigc
gfygshgxwzh,wdkxwhqgkwnztgwhqgbw_qdx_pw Hqgkwhqgwxmtgwodbo:

“Eqdh,wdnnwjrwhqgu?”

“Kj--ngdohedbo,wkjhwdnnwdhwjksg--hqdhwzo,wZwxjk'hwhqzktwZwgigcwoggwhqgu
dnnwsjugw_jmh_wdhwjksgw mhw.mohwjkgwhzugp”

“Qgnnj!w Eqgkwedowhqdh?”

“Zhwedowhqgwxdbwegwqdxwhqgwrmkgcdnpw Zkwhqgwujckzkapw Zhwedck'hwgdcnb,
 gsdmogwZwjigcongyhpw Zwedow.mohwohdchzkawxjekwhqgwndxxgc,wdkxwZwogg
hqgup”

“Egnn,wajwjk,w_aj_wjk!w Eqdhwxzxwhqgbwxj?w Qje'xwhqgbwdsh?”

“Hqgbwxzxk'hwxjwkjhqzkapw Dkxwhqgbwxzxk'hwdshwdkbedbwumsq,wdowrmcwdowZ
oggpwHqgbwhzyhjgxwdedb;wojwZwoggk,wgdobwgkjmaq,whqdhwhqgb'xwoqjigxwzk
hqgcgwhjwxjwmywbjmcwud.gohb'owcjju,wjcwojughqzka,wo'yjozkawbjmwedowmy;
dkxwrjmkxwbjmw_edck'h_wmy,wdkxwojwhqgbwedowqjyzkawhjwonzxgwjmhwjrwhqg
edbwjrwhcjm ngwezhqjmhwedtzkawbjmwmy,wzrwhqgbwqdxk'hwdncgdxbwedtgxwbjm
myp”

“Acgdhwamko,w_hqzo_wzowdwaj!”wodbowhqgwtzka;wdkxw jhqwjrwhqguwnjjtgx
ycghhbwozstwdkxwhjngcd ngwoznnbpw Hqgbwohjjxwhqgcgwd-hqzktzkawdkx
oscdhsqzkawhqgzcwqgdxowdwuzkmhg,wdkxwhqgwxmtgwqgw mohwzkhjwdwtzkxwjrwd
nzhhngwcdoybwsqmstng,wdkxwodbo:

“Zhwxjgow gdhwdnnwqjewkgdhwhqgwkzaagcowyndbgxwhqgzcwqdkxpw Hqgbwnghwjk
hjw gw_ojccb_whqgbwedowajzkawjmhwjrwhqzowcgazjk!w DkxwZw gnzgigxwhqgb
_edo_wojccb,wdkxwojwxzxwbjm,wdkxwojwxzxwgigcb jxbpw Xjk'hwgigcwhgnnw_ug_
dkbwujcgwhqdhwdwkzaagcwdzk'hwajhwdkbwqzohczjkzswhdngkhpw Eqb,whqgwedb
hqgbwyndbgxwhqdhwhqzkawzhwejmnxwrjjnw_dkb jxb_pw Zkwubwjyzkzjk,whqgcg'o
dwrjchmkgwzkw'gupw ZrwZwqdxwsdyzhdnwdkxwdwhqgdhgc,wZwejmnxk'hwedkhwd
 ghhgcwndb-jmhwhqdkwhqdh--dkxwqgcgweg'igwajkgwdkxwojnxw'guwrjcwdwojkap
 Bgo,wdkxwdzk'hwyczizngagxwhjwozkawhqgwojkawbghpw Odb,weqgcgw_zo_whqdh
ojka--hqdhwxcdrh?”

“Zkwhqgw dktwrjcwhjw gwsjnngshgxpw Eqgcgw_ejmnx_wzhw g?”

“Egnn,w_hqdh'o_wdnnwczaqhwhqgk,whqdktwajjxkgoop”

OdbowZ,wtzkxwjrwhzuzx-nztg:

“Zowojughqzkawajkgwecjka?”

Hqgwtzkaweqzcnowjkwugwdkxwczyowjmh:

“Kjkgwj'wbjmcw mozkgoo!w Bjmwtggywbjmcwqgdxwoqgh,wdkxwuzkxwb'cwjek
drrdzco--zrwbjmwajhwdkbpw Njkawdowbjm'cgwzkwhqzowhjekwxjk'hwbjmwrjcazh
_hqdh_--bjmwqgdc?”w Hqgkwqgwodbowhjwhqgwxmtg,w“Egwajhwhjw.gohwoednngcwzh
dkxwodbwkjhq'k':w umu'owhqgwejcxwrjcw_mo_p”

Dowhqgbwedowohdchzkawxjekwhqgwndxxgcwhqgwxmtgwqgwsqmstngowdadzk,wdkx
odbo:

“Vmzstwodngow_dkx_woudnnwycjrzho!w Zh'owdwajjxw mozkgoo--bgop”

Hqgwtzkawokdcnowdcjmkxwjkwqzuwdkxwodbo:

“Zwedowhcbzkawhjwxjwrjcwhqgw gohwzkwognnzk'w'guwjmhwojwvmzstpw Zrwhqg
ycjrzhowqdowhmckgxwjmhwhjw gwkjkg,wndstzk'wsjkozxd ng,wdkxwkjkgwhj
sdccb,wzowzhwubwrdmnhwdkbwujcg'kwzh'owbjmck?”

“Egnn,w_hqgb'x_w gwzkwhqzowqjmogwbghwdkxwegw_ejmnxk'h_wzrwZwsjmnxwdwajh
ubwdxizsgwnzohgkgxwhjp”

Hqgwtzkawodoogxw dstwdowumsqwdowedowodrgwrjcwqzu,wdkxwhqgkwoedyygx
dcjmkxwdkxwnzhwzkhjw_ug_wdadzkpw Qgwazigwugwxjekwhqgw dktowrjcwkjh
sjuzkawdkxw_hgnnzka_wqzuwZwoggwhqgwkzaagcowsjugwjmhwjrwqzowcjjuwdshzka
hqdhwedb--odzxwdkbwrjjnwejmnxwdw_tkjegx_wojughqzkawedowmypw Dkxwhqgk
ednhlgxwzkwdkxwsmoogxw_qzuognr_wdeqzng,wdkxwodzxwzhwdnnwsjugwjrwqzuwkjh
ndbzkawndhgwdkxwhdtzkawqzowkdhmcdnwcgohwhqdhwujckzka,wdkxwqg'xw g
 ndugxwzrwqg'xwgigcwxjwzhwdadzkpw Ojwhqgbwegkhwjrrwd-.dezka;wdkxwZwrgnh
xcgdxrmnwandxwZ'xwejctgxwzhwdnnwjrrwjkwhjwhqgwkzaagco,wdkxwbghwqdxk'h
xjkgwhqgwkzaagcowkjwqdcuw bwzhp




SQDYHGCwFFIZZZp

 Bwdkxw bwzhwedowaghhzka-mywhzugpw OjwZwsjugwxjekwhqgwndxxgcwdkxwohdchgx
rjcwxjek-ohdzco;w mhwdowZwsjugwhjwhqgwazcno'wcjjuwhqgwxjjcwedowjygk,wdkx
ZwoggwUdcbw.dkgwoghhzkaw bwqgcwjnxwqdzcwhcmkt,weqzsqwedowjygkwdkxwoqg'x
 ggkwydstzkawhqzkaowzkwzh--aghhzkawcgdxbwhjwajwhjwGkandkxpw  mhwoqg
qdxwohjyygxwkjewezhqwdwrjnxgxwajekwzkwqgcwndy,wdkxwqdxwqgcwrdsgwzkwqgc
qdkxo,wscbzkapw Zwrgnhwdermnw dxwhjwoggwzh;wjrwsjmcogwdkb jxbwejmnxpw Z
egkhwzkwhqgcgwdkxwodbo:

“UzoowUdcbw.dkg,wbjmwsdk'hwd- gdcwhjwoggwygjyngwzkwhcjm ng,wdkxwZ
sdk'h--ujohwdnedbopw Hgnnwugwd jmhwzhp”

Ojwoqgwxjkgwzhpw Dkxwzhwedowhqgwkzaagco--Zw.mohwgfygshgxwzhpw Oqgwodzx
hqgw gdmhzrmnwhczywhjwGkandkxwedowujohwd jmhwoyjzngxwrjcwqgc;woqgwxzxk'h
tkjew_qje_woqgwedowgigcwajzkawhjw gwqdyybwhqgcg,wtkjezkawhqgwujhqgcwdkx
hqgwsqznxcgkwedck'hwgigcwajzkawhjwoggwgdsqwjhqgcwkjwujcg--dkxwhqgkw mohgx
jmhw zhhgcgcwhqdkwgigc,wdkxwrnmkawmywqgcwqdkxo,wdkxwodbo:

“Jq,wxgdc,wxgdc,whjwhqzktwhqgbwdzk'hw_gigc_wajzkawhjwoggwgdsqwjhqgcwdkb
ujcg!”

“ mhwhqgbw_eznn_--dkxwzkozxgwjrwhejweggto--dkxwZw_tkje_wzh!”wodbowZp

Ndeo,wzhwedowjmhw grjcgwZwsjmnxwhqzkt!w Dkxw grjcgwZwsjmnxw mxagwoqg
hqcjeowqgcwdcuowdcjmkxwubwkgstwdkxwhjnxwugwhjwodbwzhw_dadzk_,wodbwzh
_dadzk_,wodbwzhw_dadzk_!

ZwoggwZwqdxwoyjtgwhjjwomxxgkwdkxwodzxwhjjwumsq,wdkxwedowzkwdwsnjog
yndsgpwZwdotgxwqgcwhjwnghwugwhqzktwdwuzkmhg;wdkxwoqgwoghwhqgcg,wigcb
zuydhzgkhwdkxwgfszhgxwdkxwqdkxojug,w mhwnjjtzkawtzkxwjrwqdyybwdkx
gdogx-my,wnztgwdwygcojkwhqdh'owqdxwdwhjjhqwymnngxwjmhpw OjwZwegkhwhj
ohmxbzkawzhwjmhpw Zwodbowhjwubognr,wZwcgstjkwdw jxbwhqdhwmyowdkxwhgnno
hqgwhcmhqweqgkwqgwzowzkwdwhzaqhwyndsgwzowhdtzkawsjkozxgcd ngwudkbwcgoto,
hqjmaqwZwdzk'hwqdxwkjwgfygczgksg,wdkxwsdk'hwodbwrjcwsgchdzk;w mhwzh
njjtowojwhjwug,wdkbedb;wdkxwbghwqgcg'owdwsdogweqgcgwZ'uw ngohwzrwzh
xjk'hwnjjtwhjwugwnztgwhqgwhcmhqwzow ghhgcwdkxwdshmnbw_odrgc_whqdkwdwnzgp
 Zwumohwndbwzhw bwzkwubwuzkx,wdkxwhqzktwzhwjigcwojugwhzugwjcwjhqgc,wzh'o
ojwtzkxwjrwohcdkagwdkxwmkcgamndcpwZwkgigcwoggwkjhqzkawnztgwzhpw Egnn,wZ
odbowhjwubognrwdhwndoh,wZ'uwd-ajzkawhjwsqdksgwzh;wZ'nnwmywdkxwhgnnwhqg
hcmhqwhqzowhzug,whqjmaqwzhwxjgowogguwujohwnztgwoghhzkawxjekwjkwdwtdawjr
yjexgcwdkxwhjmsqzkawzhwjrrw.mohwhjwoggweqgcgwbjm'nnwajwhjpwHqgkwZwodbo:

“UzoowUdcbw.dkg,wzowhqgcgwdkbwyndsgwjmhwjrwhjekwdwnzhhngwedboweqgcgwbjm
sjmnxwajwdkxwohdbwhqcggwjcwrjmcwxdbo?”

“Bgo;wUcpwNjhqcjy'opw Eqb?”

“Kgigcwuzkxweqbwbghpw ZrwZ'nnwhgnnwbjmwqjewZwtkjewhqgwkzaagcoweznnwogg
gdsqwjhqgcwdadzkwzkozxgwjrwhejweggto--qgcgwzkwhqzowqjmog--dkxw_ycjig_wqje
Zwtkjewzh--eznnwbjmwajwhjwUcpwNjhqcjy'owdkxwohdbwrjmcwxdbo?”

“Rjmcwxdbo!”woqgwodbo;w“Z'nnwohdbwdwbgdc!”

“Dnnwczaqh,”wZwodbo,w“Zwxjk'hwedkhwkjhqzkawujcgwjmhwjrw_bjm_whqdkw.moh
bjmcwejcx--Zwxcmhqgcwqdigwzhwhqdkwdkjhqgcwudk'owtzoo-hqg- z ngp”w Oqg
ouzngxwdkxwcgxxgkgxwmywigcbwoeggh,wdkxwZwodbo,w“Zrwbjmwxjk'hwuzkxwzh,
Z'nnwoqmhwhqgwxjjc--dkxw jnhwzhp”

HqgkwZwsjugw dstwdkxwoghwxjekwdadzk,wdkxwodbo:

“Xjk'hwbjmwqjnngcpw .mohwoghwohznnwdkxwhdtgwzhwnztgwdwudkpw Zwajhwhj
hgnnwhqgwhcmhq,wdkxwbjmwedkhwhjw cdsgwmy,wUzoowUdcb,w gsdmogwzh'owd
 dxwtzkx,wdkxwajzkawhjw gwqdcxwhjwhdtg,w mhwhqgcgwdzk'hwkjwqgnywrjc
zhpw Hqgogwmksngowjrwbjmckwdzk'hwkjwmksngowdhwdnn;whqgb'cgwdwsjmyngwjr
rcdmxo--cgamndcwxgdx- gdhopw Hqgcg,wkjeweg'cgwjigcwhqgwejcohwjrwzh,wbjm
sdkwohdkxwhqgwcgohwuzxxnzkawgdobp”

Zhw.jnhgxwqgcwmywnztgwgigcbhqzka,wjrwsjmcog;w mhwZwedowjigcwhqgwoqjdn
edhgcwkje,wojwZwegkhwczaqhwdnjka,wqgcwgbgowd- ndlzkawqzaqgcwdkxwqzaqgc
dnnwhqgwhzug,wdkxwhjnxwqgcwgigcbw ndugwhqzka,wrcjuweqgcgwegwrzcohwohcmst
hqdhwbjmkawrjjnwajzkawmywhjwhqgwohgdu jdh,wsngdcwhqcjmaqwhjweqgcgwoqg
rnmkawqgcognrwjkwhjwhqgwtzka'ow cgdohwdhwhqgwrcjkhwxjjcwdkxwqgwtzoogx
qgcwozfhggkwjcwogigkhggkwhzugo--dkxwhqgkwmywoqgw.muyo,wezhqwqgcwrdsg
drzcgwnztgwomkogh,wdkxwodbo:

“Hqgw cmhg!w Sjug,wxjk'hwedohgwdwuzkmhg--kjhwdw_ogsjkx_--eg'nnwqdigwhqgu
hdccgxwdkxwrgdhqgcgx,wdkxwrnmkawzkwhqgwczigc!”

OdbowZ:

“Sgch'knbpw  mhwxjwbjmwugdkw_ grjcg_wbjmwajwhjwUcpwNjhqcjy'o,wjc--”

“Jq,”woqgwodbo,w“eqdhwduwZw_hqzktzka_wd jmh!”woqgwodbo,wdkxwoghwczaqh
xjekwdadzkpww“Xjk'hwuzkxweqdhwZwodzx--yngdogwxjk'h--bjmw_ejk'h,_wkje,
_eznn_wbjm?”wNdbzkawqgcwozntbwqdkxwjkwuzkgwzkwhqdhwtzkxwjrwdwedbwhqdh
ZwodzxwZwejmnxwxzgwrzcohpww“Zwkgigcwhqjmaqh,wZwedowojwohzccgxwmy,”woqg
odbo;w“kjewajwjk,wdkxwZwejk'hwxjwojwdkbwujcgpw Bjmwhgnnwugweqdhwhjwxj,
dkxweqdhgigcwbjmwodbwZ'nnwxjwzhp”

“Egnn,”wZwodbo,w“zh'owdwcjmaqwadka,whqguwhejwrcdmxo,wdkxwZ'uwrzfgxwoj
Zwajhwhjwhcdignwezhqwhqguwdweqzngwnjkagc,weqghqgcwZwedkhwhjwjcwkjh--Z
xcmhqgcwkjhwhgnnwbjmweqb;wdkxwzrwbjmwedowhjw njewjkwhqguwhqzowhjekwejmnx
aghwugwjmhwjrwhqgzcwsndeo,wdkxwZ'xw gwdnnwczaqh;w mhwhqgcg'xw gwdkjhqgc
ygcojkwhqdhwbjmwxjk'hwtkjewd jmhweqj'xw gwzkw zawhcjm ngpw Egnn,weg
ajhwhjwodigw_qzu_,wqdzk'hweg?w Jrwsjmcogpw Egnn,whqgk,wegwejk'hw njewjk
hqgup”

Odbzkawhqguwejcxowymhwdwajjxwzxgdwzkwubwqgdxpw Zwoggwqjewudb gwZwsjmnx
aghwugwdkxw.zuwczxwjrwhqgwrcdmxo;waghwhqguw.dzngxwqgcg,wdkxwhqgkwngdigp
 mhwZwxzxk'hwedkhwhjwcmkwhqgwcdrhwzkwhqgwxdbhzugwezhqjmhwdkb jxbwd jdcx
hjwdkoegcwvmgohzjkow mhwug;wojwZwxzxk'hwedkhwhqgwyndkwhjw gazkwejctzka
hznnwycghhbwndhgwhj-kzaqhpw Zwodbo:

“UzoowUdcbw.dkg,wZ'nnwhgnnwbjmweqdhweg'nnwxj,wdkxwbjmwejk'hwqdigwhjwohdb
dhwUcpwNjhqcjy'owojwnjka,wkmhqgcpw Qjewrmcwzowzh?”

“Dwnzhhngwoqjchwjrwrjmcwuzngo--czaqhwjmhwzkwhqgwsjmkhcb,w dstwqgcgp”

“Egnn,whqdhw'nnwdkoegcpw Kjewbjmwajwdnjkawjmhwhqgcg,wdkxwndbwnje
hznnwkzkgwjcwqdnr-ydohwhj-kzaqh,wdkxwhqgkwaghwhqguwhjwrghsqwbjmwqjug
dadzk--hgnnwhqguwbjm'igwhqjmaqhwjrwojughqzkapw Zrwbjmwaghwqgcgw grjcg
gngigkwymhwdwsdkxngwzkwhqzowezkxje,wdkxwzrwZwxjk'hwhmckwmywedzhw_hznn_
gngigk,wdkxw_hqgk_wzrwZwxjk'hwhmckwmywzhwugdkowZ'uwajkg,wdkxwjmhwjrwhqg
edb,wdkxwodrgpwHqgkwbjmwsjugwjmhwdkxwoycgdxwhqgwkgeowdcjmkx,wdkxwagh
hqgogw gdhow.dzngxp”

“Ajjx,”woqgwodbo,w“Z'nnwxjwzhp”

“Dkxwzrwzhw.mohwqdyygkowojwhqdhwZwxjk'hwaghwdedb,w mhwaghwhjjtwmywdnjka
ezhqwhqgu,wbjmwumohwmywdkxwodbwZwhjnxwbjmwhqgweqjngwhqzkaw grjcgqdkx,
dkxwbjmwumohwohdkxw bwugwdnnwbjmwsdkp”

“Ohdkxw bwbjm!wzkxggxwZweznnpw Hqgbwoqd'k'hwhjmsqwdwqdzcwjrwbjmcwqgdx!”
woqgwodbo,wdkxwZwoggwqgcwkjohcznowoycgdxwdkxwqgcwgbgowokdyweqgkwoqgwodzx
zh,whjjp

“ZrwZwaghwdedbwZwoqd'k'hw gwqgcg,”wZwodbo,w“hjwycjigwhqgogwcdyosdnnzjko
dzk'hwbjmcwmksngo,wdkxwZwsjmnxk'hwxjwzhwzrwZw_edo_wqgcgpw Zwsjmnxwoegdc
hqgbwedow gdhowdkxw muugco,whqdh'owdnn,whqjmaqwhqdh'owejchqwojughqzkap
Egnn,whqgcg'owjhqgcowsdkwxjwhqdhw ghhgcwhqdkweqdhwZwsdk,wdkxwhqgb'cg
ygjyngwhqdhwdzk'hwajzkawhjw gwxjm hgxwdowvmzstwdowZ'xw gpw Z'nnwhgnnwbjm
qjewhjwrzkxwhqgupw Azuugwdwygksznwdkxwdwyzgsgwjrwydygcpw Hqgcg--'Cjbdn
Kjkgomsq,w czstoiznngp'w Ymhwzhwdedb,wdkxwxjk'hwnjogwzhpw Eqgkwhqg
sjmchwedkhowhjwrzkxwjmhwojughqzkawd jmhwhqgogwhej,wnghwhqguwogkxwmywhj
 czstoiznngwdkxwodbwhqgb'igwajhwhqgwugkwhqdhwyndbgxwhqgwCjbdnwKjkgomsq,
dkxwdotwrjcwojugwezhkgoogo--eqb,wbjm'nnwqdigwhqdhwgkhzcgwhjekwxjekwqgcg
 grjcgwbjmwsdkwqdcxnbwezkt,wUzoowUdcbpw Dkxwhqgb'nnwsjugwd- znzka,whjjp”

Zw.mxagxwegwqdxwajhwgigcbhqzkawrzfgxwd jmhwczaqhwkjepw OjwZwodbo:

“.mohwnghwhqgwdmshzjkwajwczaqhwdnjka,wdkxwxjk'hwejccbpw Kj jxbwxjk'h
qdigwhjwydbwrjcwhqgwhqzkaowhqgbw mbwhznnwdweqjngwxdbwdrhgcwhqgwdmshzjk
jkwdssjmkhowjrwhqgwoqjchwkjhzsg,wdkxwhqgbwdzk'hwajzkawjmhwjrwhqzowhznn
hqgbwaghwhqdhwujkgb;wdkxwhqgwedbweg'igwrzfgxwzhwhqgwodngwdzk'hwajzkawhj
sjmkh,wdkxwhqgbwdzk'hwajzkawhjwaghwkjwujkgbpw Zh'ow.mohwnztgwhqgwedb
zhwedowezhqwhqgwkzaagco--zhwedck'hwkjwodng,wdkxwhqgwkzaagcoweznnw g
 dstw grjcgwnjkapw Eqb,whqgbwsdk'hwsjnngshwhqgwujkgbwrjcwhqgw_kzaagco_
bgh--hqgb'cgwzkwhqgwejcohwtzkxwjrwdwrzf,wUzoowUdcbp”

“Egnn,”woqgwodbo,w“Z'nnwcmkwxjekwhjw cgdtrdohwkje,wdkxwhqgkwZ'nnwohdch
ohcdzaqhwrjcwUcpwNjhqcjy'op”

“'Xggx,w_hqdh_wdzk'hwhqgwhzstgh,wUzoowUdcbw.dkg,”wZwodbo,w“ bwkjwudkkgc
jrwugdko;wajw_ grjcg_w cgdtrdohp”

“Eqb?”

“EqdhwxzxwbjmwcgstjkwZwedkhgxwbjmwhjwajwdhwdnnwrjc,wUzoowUdcb?”

“Egnn,wZwkgigcwhqjmaqh--dkxwsjugwhjwhqzkt,wZwxjk'hwtkjepw Eqdhwedowzh?”

“Eqb,wzh'ow gsdmogwbjmwdzk'hwjkgwjrwhqgogwngdhqgc-rdsgwygjyngpw Zwxjk'h
edkhwkjw ghhgcw jjtwhqdkweqdhwbjmcwrdsgwzopw Dw jxbwsdkwoghwxjekwdkx
cgdxwzhwjrrwnztgwsjdcogwyczkhpw Xjwbjmwcgstjkwbjmwsdkwajwdkxwrdsgwbjmc
mksngoweqgkwhqgbwsjugwhjwtzoowbjmwajjx-ujckzka,wdkxwkgigc--”

“Hqgcg,whqgcg,wxjk'h!w Bgo,wZ'nnwajw grjcgw cgdtrdoh--Z'nnw gwandxwhjp
Dkxwngdigwubwozohgcowezhqwhqgu?”

“Bgo;wkgigcwuzkxwd jmhwhqgupw Hqgb'igwajhwhjwohdkxwzhwbghwdweqzngpw Hqgb
uzaqhwomoyzszjkwojughqzkawzrwdnnwjrwbjmwedowhjwajpw Zwxjk'hwedkhwbjmwhj
oggwhqgu,wkjcwbjmcwozohgco,wkjcwkj jxbwzkwhqzowhjek;wzrwdwkgzaq jcwedo
hjwdotwqjewzowbjmcwmksngowhqzowujckzkawbjmcwrdsgwejmnxwhgnnwojughqzkap
 Kj,wbjmwajwczaqhwdnjka,wUzoowUdcbw.dkg,wdkxwZ'nnwrzfwzhwezhqwdnnwjr
hqgupwZ'nnwhgnnwUzoowOmodkwhjwazigwbjmcwnjigwhjwbjmcwmksngowdkxwodb
bjm'igwegkhwdedbwrjcwdwrgewqjmcowrjcwhjwaghwdwnzhhngwcgohwdkxwsqdkag,wjc
hjwoggwdwrczgkx,wdkxwbjm'nnw gw dstwhj-kzaqhwjcwgdcnbwzkwhqgwujckzkap”

“Ajkgwhjwoggwdwrczgkxwzowdnnwczaqh,w mhwZwejk'hwqdigwubwnjigwazigkwhj
hqgup”

“Egnn,whqgk,wzhwoqd'k'hw gp”w Zhwedowegnnwgkjmaqwhjwhgnnw_qgc_woj--kj
qdcuwzkwzhpw Zhwedowjknbwdwnzhhngwhqzkawhjwxj,wdkxwkjwhcjm ng;wdkxwzh'o
hqgwnzhhngwhqzkaowhqdhwoujjhqowygjyng'owcjdxowhqgwujoh,wxjekwqgcgw gnje;
zhwejmnxwudtgwUdcbw.dkgwsjurjchd ng,wdkxwzhwejmnxk'hwsjohwkjhqzkapw Hqgk
Zwodbo:ww“Hqgcg'owjkgwujcgwhqzka--hqdhw dawjrwujkgbp”

“Egnn,whqgb'igwajhwhqdh;wdkxwzhwudtgowugwrggnwycghhbwoznnbwhjwhqzkt
_qje_whqgbwajhwzhp”

“Kj,wbjm'cgwjmh,whqgcgpw Hqgbwqdzk'hwajhwzhp”

“Eqb,weqj'owajhwzh?”

“ZwezoqwZwtkjegx,w mhwZwxjk'hpw Zw_qdx_wzh,w gsdmogwZwohjngwzhwrcju
hqgu;wdkxwZwohjngwzhwhjwazigwhjwbjm;wdkxwZwtkjeweqgcgwZwqzxwzh,w mhwZ'u
drcdzxwzhwdzk'hwhqgcgwkjwujcgpw Z'uwdermnwojccb,wUzoowUdcbw.dkg,wZ'u
.mohwdowojccbwdowZwsdkw g;w mhwZwxjkgwhqgw gohwZwsjmnx;wZwxzxwqjkgohpw Z
sjugwkzaqwaghhzkawsdmaqh,wdkxwZwqdxwhjwoqjigwzhwzkhjwhqgwrzcohwyndsgwZ
sjugwhj,wdkxwcmk--dkxwzhwedck'hwdwajjxwyndsgp”

“Jq,wohjyw nduzkawbjmcognr--zh'owhjjw dxwhjwxjwzh,wdkxwZwejk'hwdnnje
zh--bjmwsjmnxk'hwqgnywzh;wzhwedok'hwbjmcwrdmnhpw Eqgcgwxzxwbjmwqzxgwzh?”

Zwxzxk'hwedkhwhjwoghwqgcwhjwhqzktzkawd jmhwqgcwhcjm ngowdadzk;wdkxwZ
sjmnxk'hwogguwhjwaghwubwujmhqwhjwhgnnwqgcweqdhwejmnxwudtgwqgcwoggwhqdh
sjcyogwndbzkawzkwhqgwsjrrzkwezhqwhqdhw dawjrwujkgbwjkwqzowohjudsqpw Oj
rjcwdwuzkmhgwZwxzxk'hwodbwkjhqzka;whqgkwZwodbo:

“Z'xwcmhqgcwkjhw_hgnn_wbjmweqgcgwZwymhwzh,wUzoowUdcbw.dkg,wzrwbjmwxjk'h
uzkxwnghhzkawugwjrr;w mhwZ'nnweczhgwzhwrjcwbjmwjkwdwyzgsgwjrwydygc,wdkx
bjmwsdkwcgdxwzhwdnjkawhqgwcjdxwhjwUcpwNjhqcjy'o,wzrwbjmwedkhwhjpw Xjwbjm
cgstjkwhqdhw'nnwxj?”

“Jq,wbgop”

OjwZwecjhg:ww“Zwymhwzhwzkwhqgwsjrrzkpw Zhwedowzkwhqgcgweqgkwbjmwedo
scbzkawhqgcg,wdedbwzkwhqgwkzaqhpw Zwedow gqzkxwhqgwxjjc,wdkxwZwedo
uzaqhbwojccbwrjcwbjm,wUzoowUdcbw.dkgp”

Zhwudxgwubwgbgowedhgcwdwnzhhngwhjwcgugu gcwqgcwscbzkawhqgcgwdnnw b
qgcognrwzkwhqgwkzaqh,wdkxwhqguwxgiznowndbzkawhqgcgwczaqhwmkxgcwqgcwjek
cjjr,woqduzkawqgcwdkxwcj  zkawqgc;wdkxweqgkwZwrjnxgxwzhwmywdkxwazigwzh
hjwqgcwZwoggwhqgwedhgcwsjugwzkhjwqgcwgbgo,whjj;wdkxwoqgwoqjjtwugw bwhqg
qdkx,wqdcx,wdkxwodbo:

“_Ajjx_- bgpw Z'uwajzkawhjwxjwgigcbhqzkaw.mohwdowbjm'igwhjnxwug;wdkxwzr
Zwxjk'hwgigcwoggwbjmwdadzk,wZwoqd'k'hwgigcwrjcaghwbjmwdkxwZ'nnwhqzktwjr
bjmwdwudkbwdkxwdwudkbwdwhzug,wdkxwZ'nnw_ycdb_wrjcwbjm,whjj!”--dkxwoqgwedo
ajkgp

Ycdbwrjcwug!w Zwcgstjkgxwzrwoqgwtkjegxwugwoqg'xwhdtgwdw.j whqdhwedowujcg
kgdcgcwqgcwozlgpw  mhwZw ghwoqgwxjkgwzh,w.mohwhqgwodug--oqgwedow.mohwhqdh
tzkxpw Oqgwqdxwhqgwaczhwhjwycdbwrjcw.mxmowzrwoqgwhjjtwhqgwkjhzjk--hqgcg
edck'hwkjw dst-xjekwhjwqgc,wZw.mxagpw Bjmwudbwodbweqdhwbjmwedkhwhj,w mh
zkwubwjyzkzjkwoqgwqdxwujcgwodkxwzkwqgcwhqdkwdkbwazcnwZwgigcwogg;wzk
ubwjyzkzjkwoqgwedow.mohwrmnnwjrwodkxpw Zhwojmkxownztgwrndhhgcb,w mhwzh
dzk'hwkjwrndhhgcbpw Dkxweqgkwzhwsjugowhjw gdmhb--dkxwajjxkgoo,whjj--oqg
ndbowjigcwhqguwdnnpw Zwqdzk'hwgigcwoggkwqgcwozksgwhqdhwhzugwhqdhwZwogg
qgcwajwjmhwjrwhqdhwxjjc;wkj,wZwqdzk'hwgigcwoggkwqgcwozksg,w mhwZwcgstjk
Z'igwhqjmaqhwjrwqgcwdwudkbwdkxwdwudkbwdwuznnzjkwhzugo,wdkxwjrwqgcwodbzka
oqgwejmnxwycdbwrjcwug;wdkxwzrwgigcwZ'xwdwhqjmaqhwzhwejmnxwxjwdkbwajjx
rjcwugwhjwycdbwrjcw_qgc_,w ndugxwzrwZwejmnxk'hwdwxjkgwzhwjcw mohp

Egnn,wUdcbw.dkgwoqgwnzhwjmhwhqgw dstwedb,wZwcgstjk;w gsdmogwkj jxbwogg
qgcwajpw EqgkwZwohcmstwOmodkwdkxwhqgwqdcg-nzy,wZwodbo:

“Eqdh'owhqgwkdugwjrwhqguwygjyngwjigcwjkwh'jhqgcwozxgwjrwhqgwczigcwhqdh
bjmwdnnwajgowhjwoggwojughzugo?”

Hqgbwodbo:

“Hqgcg'owogigcdn;w mhwzh'owhqgwYcjshjco,wudzknbp”

“Hqdh'owhqgwkdug,”wZwodbo;w“Zwujohwrjcajhwzhpw Egnn,wUzoowUdcbw.dkgwoqg
hjnxwugwhjwhgnnwbjmwoqg'owajkgwjigcwhqgcgwzkwdwxcgdxrmnwqmccb--jkgwjr
hqgu'owozstp”

“Eqzsqwjkg?”

“Zwxjk'hwtkje;wngdohedbo,wZwtzkxgcwrjcagh;w mhwZwhqzktowzh'o--”

“Odtgowdnzig,wZwqjygwzhwdzk'hw_Qdkkgc_?”

“Z'uwojccbwhjwodbwzh,”wZwodbo,w“ mhwQdkkgc'owhqgwigcbwjkgp”

“Ubwajjxkgoo,wdkxwoqgwojwegnnwjknbwndohweggt!w Zowoqgwhjjtw dx?”

“Zhwdzk'hwkjwkdugwrjcwzhpw Hqgbwoghwmywezhqwqgcwdnnwkzaqh,wUzoowUdcb
.dkgwodzx,wdkxwhqgbwxjk'hwhqzktwoqg'nnwndohwudkbwqjmcop”

“Jknbwhqzktwjrwhqdh,wkje!w Eqdh'owhqgwudhhgcwezhqwqgc?”

Zwsjmnxk'hwhqzktwjrwdkbhqzkawcgdojkd ng,wczaqhwjrrwhqdhwedb,wojwZwodbo:

“Umuyop”

“Umuyowbjmcwacdkkb!w Hqgbwxjk'hwoghwmywezhqwygjyngwhqdh'owajhwhqg
umuyop”

“Hqgbwxjk'h,wxjk'hwhqgb?w Bjmw ghhgcw ghwhqgbwxjwezhqw_hqgog_wumuyop
 Hqgogwumuyowzowxzrrgcgkhpw Zh'owdwkgewtzkx,wUzoowUdcbw.dkgwodzxp”

“Qje'owzhwdwkgewtzkx?”

“ gsdmogwzh'owuzfgxwmywezhqwjhqgcwhqzkaop”

“Eqdhwjhqgcwhqzkao?”

“Egnn,wugdongo,wdkxweqjjyzka-sjmaq,wdkxwgcbozyndo,wdkxwsjkomuyhzjk,wdkx
bdnngcw.dkxgco,wdkxw cdzk-rgigc,wdkxwZwxjk'hwtkjeweqdhwdnnp”

“Ubwndkx!w Dkxwhqgbwsdnnwzhwhqgw_umuyo_?”

“Hqdh'oweqdhwUzoowUdcbw.dkgwodzxp”

“Egnn,weqdhwzkwhqgwkdhzjkwxjwhqgbwsdnnwzhwhqgw_umuyo_wrjc?”

“Eqb,w gsdmogwzhw_zo_whqgwumuyopw Hqdh'oweqdhwzhwohdchowezhqp”

“Egnn,whqgc'wdzk'hwkjwogkogwzkwzhpw Dw jxbwuzaqhwohmuywqzowhjg,wdkxwhdtg
yzojk,wdkxwrdnnwxjekwhqgwegnn,wdkxw cgdtwqzowkgst,wdkxw mohwqzow cdzko
jmh,wdkxwojug jxbwsjugwdnjkawdkxwdotweqdhwtznngxwqzu,wdkxwojugwkmuotmnn
mywdkxwodb,w'Eqb,wqgwohmuygxwqzow_hjg_p'w Ejmnxwhqgc'w gwdkbwogkog
zkwhqdh?w_Kj_pw Dkxwhqgc'wdzk'hwkjwogkogwzkw_hqzo_,wkmhqgcpw Zowzh
tghsqzka?”

“Zowzhw_tghsqzka_?w Eqb,wqjewbjmwhdntpw Zowdw_qdccje_wsdhsqzka--zkwhqg
xdct?wZrwbjmwxjk'hwqzhsqwjkwhjwjkgwhjjhq,wbjm'cgw jmkxwhjwjkwdkjhqgc,
dzk'hwbjm?wDkxwbjmwsdk'hwaghwdedbwezhqwhqdhwhjjhqwezhqjmhwrghsqzkawhqg
eqjngwqdccjewdnjka,wsdkwbjm?w Egnn,whqgogwtzkxwjrwumuyowzowdwtzkxwjrwd
qdccje,wdowbjmwudbwodb--dkxwzhwdzk'hwkjwonjmsqwjrwdwqdccje,wkmhqgc,wbjm
sjugwhjwaghwzhwqzhsqgxwjkwajjxp”

“Egnn,wzh'owdermn,wZwhqzkt,”wodbowhqgwqdcg-nzypww“Z'nnwajwhjwMksng
Qdcigbwdkx--”

“Jq,wbgo,”wZwodbo,w“Zw_ejmnx_pw Jrw_sjmcog_wZwejmnxpw Zwejmnxk'hwnjogwkj
hzugp”

“Egnn,weqbwejmnxk'hwbjm?”

“.mohwnjjtwdhwzhwdwuzkmhg,wdkxwudb gwbjmwsdkwoggpw Qdzk'hwbjmcwmksngo
j nggaxwhjwaghwdnjkawqjugwhjwGkandkxwdowrdohwdowhqgbwsdk?w Dkxwxjwbjm
cgstjkwhqgb'xw gwugdkwgkjmaqwhjwajwjrrwdkxwngdigwbjmwhjwajwdnnwhqdh
.jmckgbw bwbjmcognigo?w _bjm_wtkjewhqgb'nnwedzhwrjcwbjmpw Ojwrmc,woj
ajjxpwBjmcwmksngwQdcigb'owdwycgdsqgc,wdzk'hwqg?w Igcbwegnn,whqgk;wzowd
_ycgdsqgc_wajzkawhjwxgsgzigwdwohgdu jdhwsngct?wzowqgwajzkawhjwxgsgzig
dw_oqzywsngct?_--ojwdowhjwaghwhqguwhjwnghwUzoowUdcbw.dkgwajwd jdcx?w Kje
_bjm_wtkjewqgwdzk'hpw Eqdhw_eznn_wqgwxj,whqgk?w Eqb,wqg'nnwodb,w'Zh'owd
acgdhwyzhb,w mhwubwsqmcsqwudhhgcowqdowajhwhjwaghwdnjkawhqgw gohwedbwhqgb
sdk;wrjcwubwkzgsgwqdow ggkwgfyjogxwhjwhqgwxcgdxrmnwynmcz mo-mkmuwumuyo,
dkxwojwzh'owubw jmkxgkwxmhbwhjwoghwxjekwqgcgwdkxwedzhwhqgwhqcggwujkhqo
zhwhdtgowhjwoqjewjkwqgcwzrwoqg'owajhwzhp'w  mhwkgigcwuzkx,wzrwbjmwhqzkt
zh'ow gohwhjwhgnnwbjmcwmksngwQdcigb--”

“Oqmsto,wdkxwohdbwrjjnzkawdcjmkxwqgcgweqgkwegwsjmnxwdnnw gwqdizkawajjx
hzugowzkwGkandkxweqznohwegwedowedzhzkawhjwrzkxwjmhweqghqgcwUdcbw.dkg'o
ajhwzhwjcwkjh?w Eqb,wbjmwhdntwnztgwdwumaazkop”

“Egnn,wdkbedb,wudb gwbjm'xw ghhgcwhgnnwojugwjrwhqgwkgzaq jcop”

“Nzohgkwdhwhqdh,wkjepw Bjmwxjw gdhwdnnwrjcwkdhmcdnwohmyzxkgoopw Sdk'h
bjmw_ogg_whqdhw_hqgb'x_wajwdkxwhgnn?w Hqgc'wdzk'hwkjwedbw mhw.mohwhjwkjh
hgnnwdkb jxbwdhw_dnn_p”

“Egnn,wudb gwbjm'cgwczaqh--bgo,wZw.mxagwbjmw_dcg_wczaqhp”

“ mhwZwcgstjkwegwjmaqhwhjwhgnnwMksngwQdcigbwoqg'owajkgwjmhwdweqzng,
dkbedb,wojwqgwejk'hw gwmkgdobwd jmhwqgc?”

“Bgo,wUzoowUdcbw.dkgwoqgwedkhgxwbjmwhjwxjwhqdhpw Oqgwodbo,w'Hgnnwhqguwhj
azigwMksngwQdcigbwdkxwEznnzduwubwnjigwdkxwdwtzoo,wdkxwodbwZ'igwcmkwjigc
hqgwczigcwhjwoggwUcp'--Ucp--eqdhw_zo_whqgwkdugwjrwhqdhwczsqwrduznbwbjmc
mksngwYghgcwmogxwhjwhqzktwojwumsqwjr?--Zwugdkwhqgwjkgwhqdh--”

“Eqb,wbjmwumohwugdkwhqgwDyhqjcyo,wdzk'hwzh?”

“Jrwsjmcog;w jhqgcwhqguwtzkxwjrwkdugo,wdw jxbwsdk'hwgigcwogguwhj
cgugu gcwhqgu,wqdnrwhqgwhzug,wojugqjepw Bgo,woqgwodzx,wodbwoqgwqdowcmk
jigcwrjcwhjwdotwhqgwDyhqjcyowhjw gwomcgwdkxwsjugwhjwhqgwdmshzjkwdkxw mb
hqzowqjmog,w gsdmogwoqgwdnnjegxwqgcwmksngwYghgcwejmnxwcmhqgcwhqgbwqdx
zhwhqdkwdkb jxbwgnog;wdkxwoqg'owajzkawhjwohzstwhjwhqguwhznnwhqgbwodb
hqgb'nnwsjug,wdkxwhqgk,wzrwoqgwdzk'hwhjjwhzcgx,woqg'owsjuzkawqjug;wdkx
zrwoqgwzo,woqg'nnw gwqjugwzkwhqgwujckzkawdkbedbpw Oqgwodzx,wxjk'hwodb
kjhqzkawd jmhwhqgwYcjshjco,w mhwjknbwd jmhwhqgwDyhqjcyo--eqzsqw'nnw g
ygcrgshnbwhcmg,w gsdmogwoqgwzowajzkawhqgcgwhjwoygdtwd jmhwhqgzcw mbzka
hqgwqjmog;wZwtkjewzh,w gsdmogwoqgwhjnxwugwojwqgcognrp”

“Dnnwczaqh,”whqgbwodzx,wdkxwsngdcgxwjmhwhjwndbwrjcwhqgzcwmksngo,wdkx
azigwhqguwhqgwnjigwdkxwhqgwtzoogo,wdkxwhgnnwhqguwhqgwugoodagp

Gigcbhqzkawedowdnnwczaqhwkjepw Hqgwazcnowejmnxk'hwodbwkjhqzkaw gsdmog
hqgbwedkhgxwhjwajwhjwGkandkx;wdkxwhqgwtzkawdkxwhqgwxmtgwejmnxwcmhqgc
Udcbw.dkgwedowjrrwejctzkawrjcwhqgwdmshzjkwhqdkwdcjmkxwzkwcgdsqwjr
XjshjcwCj zkojkpw Zwrgnhwigcbwajjx;wZw.mxagxwZwqdxwxjkgwzhwycghhbwkgdh--Z
cgstjkgxwHjuwOdebgcwsjmnxk'hwdwxjkgwzhwkjwkgdhgcwqzuognrpw Jrwsjmcogwqg
ejmnxwdwhqcjegxwujcgwohbngwzkhjwzh,w mhwZwsdk'hwxjwhqdhwigcbwqdkxb,wkjh
 gzkaw cmkawmywhjwzhp

Egnn,whqgbwqgnxwhqgwdmshzjkwzkwhqgwym nzswovmdcg,wdnjkawhjedcxowhqgwgkx
jrwhqgwdrhgckjjk,wdkxwzhwohcmkawdnjka,wdkxwohcmkawdnjka,wdkxwhqgwjnxwudk
qgwedowjkwqdkxwdkxwnjjtzkawqzowngignwyzojkgoh,wmywhqgcgwnjkaozxgwjrwhqg
dmshzjkggc,wdkxwsqzyyzkawzkwdwnzhhngwOsczyhmcgwkjewdkxwhqgk,wjcwdwnzhhng
ajjxb-ajjxbwodbzkawjrwojugwtzkx,wdkxwhqgwxmtgwqgwedowdcjmkxwajj-ajjzka
rjcwobuydhqbwdnnwqgwtkjegxwqje,wdkxw.mohwoycgdxzkawqzuognrwagkgcnbp

 mhw bwdkxw bwhqgwhqzkawxcdaagxwhqcjmaq,wdkxwgigcbhqzkawedo
ojnx--gigcbhqzkaw mhwdwnzhhngwjnxwhczrnzkawnjhwzkwhqgwacdigbdcxpw Oj
hqgb'xwajhwhjwejctwhqdhwjrr--Zwkgigcwoggwomsqwdwazcdrrhwdowhqgwtzkawedo
rjcwedkhzkawhjwoednnjew_gigcbhqzka_pw Egnn,weqznohwhqgbwedowdhwzhwd
ohgdu jdhwndkxgx,wdkxwzkwd jmhwhejwuzkmhgowmywsjugowdwscjexwd-eqjjyzka
dkxwbgnnzkawdkxwndmaqzkawdkxwsdccbzkawjk,wdkxwozkazkawjmh:

“_Qgcg'o_wbjmcwjyyjozhzjkwnzkg!wqgcg'owbjmcwhejwoghowj'wqgzcowhjwjnx
YghgcwEznto--dkxwbjmwydbowbjmcwujkgbwdkxwbjmwhdtgowbjmcwsqjzsg!”




SQDYHGCwFFZFp

HQGBwedowrghsqzkawdwigcbwkzsg-njjtzkawjnxwagkhngudkwdnjka,wdkxwd
kzsg-njjtzkawbjmkagcwjkg,wezhqwqzowczaqhwdcuwzkwdwonzkapw Dkx,wubwojmno,
qjewhqgwygjyngwbgnngxwdkxwndmaqgx,wdkxwtgyhwzhwmypw  mhwZwxzxk'hwoggwkj
.jtgwd jmhwzh,wdkxwZw.mxagxwzhwejmnxwohcdzkwhqgwxmtgwdkxwhqgwtzkawojug
hjwoggwdkbpw Zwcgstjkgxwhqgb'xwhmckwydngpw  mhwkj,wkdcbwdwydngwxzx
_hqgb_whmckpwHqgwxmtgwqgwkgigcwnghwjkwqgwomoyzszjkgxweqdhwedowmy,w mh
.mohwegkhwdwajj-ajjzkawdcjmkx,wqdyybwdkxwodhzorzgx,wnztgwdw.mawhqdh'o
ajjanzkawjmhw mhhgcuznt;wdkxwdowrjcwhqgwtzka,wqgw.mohwadlgxwdkxwadlgx
xjekwojccjermnwjkwhqguwkge-sjugcownztgwzhwazigwqzuwhqgwohjudsq-dsqgwzk
qzowigcbwqgdchwhjwhqzktwhqgcgwsjmnxw gwomsqwrcdmxowdkxwcdosdnowzkwhqg
ejcnxpw Jq,wqgwxjkgwzhwdxuzcd ngpw Njhowjrwhqgwyczkszydnwygjyng
aghqgcgxwdcjmkxwhqgwtzka,whjwnghwqzuwoggwhqgbwedowjkwqzowozxgpw Hqdhwjnx
agkhngudkwhqdhwqdxw.mohwsjugwnjjtgxwdnnwymllngxwhjwxgdhqpw Ycghhb
ojjkwqgw gamkwhjwoygdt,wdkxwZwoggwohcdzaqhwjrrwqgwycjkjmksgxw_nztg_wdk
Gkanzoqudk--kjhwhqgwtzka'owedb,whqjmaqwhqgwtzka'ow_edo_wycghhbwajjxwrjc
dkwzuzhdhzjkpw Zwsdk'hwazigwhqgwjnxwagkh'owejcxo,wkjcwZwsdk'hwzuzhdhg
qzu;w mhwqgwhmckgxwdcjmkxwhjwhqgwscjex,wdkxwodbo,wd jmhwnztgwhqzo:

“HqzowzowdwomcyczogwhjwugweqzsqwZwedok'hwnjjtzkawrjc;wdkxwZ'nn
dstkjengxag,wsdkxzxwdkxwrcdkt,wZwdzk'hwigcbwegnnwrzfgxwhjwugghwzhwdkx
dkoegcwzh;wrjcwubw cjhqgcwdkxwugwqdowqdxwuzorjchmkgo;wqg'ow cjtgwqzo
dcu,wdkxwjmcw daadagwajhwymhwjrrwdhwdwhjekwd jigwqgcgwndohwkzaqhwzkwhqg
kzaqhw bwdwuzohdtgpw ZwduwYghgcwEznto'w cjhqgcwQdcigb,wdkxwhqzowzowqzo
 cjhqgcwEznnzdu,weqzsqwsdk'hwqgdcwkjcwoygdt--dkxwsdk'hwgigkwudtgwozakowhj
dujmkhwhjwumsq,wkje'hwqg'owjknbwajhwjkgwqdkxwhjwejctwhqguwezhqpw Egwdcg
eqjwegwodbwegwdcg;wdkxwzkwdwxdbwjcwhej,weqgkwZwaghwhqgw daadag,wZwsdk
ycjigwzhpw mhwmywhznnwhqgkwZwejk'hwodbwkjhqzkawujcg,w mhwajwhjwhqgwqjhgn
dkxwedzhp”

Ojwqzuwdkxwhqgwkgewxmuubwohdchgxwjrr;wdkxwhqgwtzkawqgwndmaqo,wdkx
 nghqgcowjmh:

“ cjtgwqzowdcu--_igcb_wnztgnb,w_dzk'h_wzh?--dkxwigcbwsjkigkzgkh,whjj,
rjcwdwrcdmxwhqdh'owajhwhjwudtgwozako,wdkxwdzk'hwngdckhwqjepw Njoh
hqgzcw daadag!wHqdh'ow_uzaqhb_wajjx!--dkxwuzaqhbwzkagkzjmo--mkxgcwhqg
_szcsmuohdksgo_!”

Ojwqgwndmaqgxwdadzk;wdkxwojwxzxwgigcb jxbwgnog,wgfsgyhwhqcggwjcwrjmc,
jcwudb gwqdnrwdwxjlgkpw Jkgwjrwhqgogwedowhqdhwxjshjc;wdkjhqgcwjkgwedo
dwoqdcy-njjtzkawagkhngudk,wezhqwdwsdcygh- dawjrwhqgwjnx-rdoqzjkgxwtzkx
udxgwjmhwjrwsdcygh-ohmrr,whqdhwqdxw.mohwsjugwjrrwjrwhqgwohgdu jdhwdkx
edowhdntzkawhjwqzuwzkwdwnjewijzsg,wdkxwandkszkawhjedcxowhqgwtzkawkjewdkx
hqgkwdkxwkjxxzkawhqgzcwqgdxo--zhwedowNgizw gnn,whqgwndebgcwhqdhwedowajkg
mywhjwNjmzoiznng;wdkxwdkjhqgcwjkgwedowdw zawcjmaqwqmotbwhqdhwsjugwdnjka
dkxwnzohgkgxwhjwdnnwhqgwjnxwagkhngudkwodzx,wdkxwedownzohgkzkawhjwhqg
tzkawkjepwDkxweqgkwhqgwtzkawajhwxjkgwhqzowqmotbwmywdkxwodbo:

“Odb,wnjjtbwqgcg;wzrwbjmwdcgwQdcigbwEznto,weqgk'xwbjmwsjugwhjwhqzo
hjek?”

“Hqgwxdbw grjcgwhqgwrmkgcdn,wrczgkx,”wodbowhqgwtzkap

“ mhweqdhwhzugwj'wxdb?”

“Zkwhqgwgigkzk'--' jmhwdkwqjmcwgcwhejw grjcgwomkxjekp”

“_Qje'x_wbjmwsjug?”

“ZwsjugwxjekwjkwhqgwOmodkwYjegnnwrcjuwSzkszkkdhzp”

“Egnn,whqgk,wqje'xwbjmwsjugwhjw gwmywdhwhqgwYzkhwzkwhqgw_ujckzk_'--zkwd
sdkjg?”

“Zwedck'hwmywdhwhqgwYzkhwzkwhqgwujckzk'p”

“Zh'owdwnzgp”

Ogigcdnwjrwhqguw.muygxwrjcwqzuwdkxw gaagxwqzuwkjhwhjwhdntwhqdhwedbwhjwdk
jnxwudkwdkxwdwycgdsqgcp

“Ycgdsqgcw gwqdkagx,wqg'owdwrcdmxwdkxwdwnzdcpw QgwedowmywdhwhqgwYzkh
hqdhwujckzk'pw Zwnzigwmywhqgcg,wxjk'hwZ?w Egnn,wZwedowmywhqgcg,wdkx
qgwedowmywhqgcgpw Zwoggwqzuwhqgcgpw Qgwsjugwzkwdwsdkjg,wdnjkawezhqwHzu
Sjnnzkowdkxwdw jbp”

Hqgwxjshjcwqgwmywdkxwodbo:

“Ejmnxwbjmwtkjewhqgw jbwdadzkwzrwbjmwedowhjwoggwqzu,wQzkgo?”

“ZwcgstjkwZwejmnx,w mhwZwxjk'hwtkjepw Eqb,wbjkxgcwqgwzo,wkjepw Zwtkje
qzuwygcrgshnbwgdobp”

Zhwedowugwqgwyjzkhgxwdhpw Hqgwxjshjcwodbo:

“Kgzaq jco,wZwxjk'hwtkjeweqghqgcwhqgwkgewsjmyngwzowrcdmxowjcwkjh;w mhwzr
_hqgog_whejwdzk'hwrcdmxo,wZwduwdkwzxzjh,whqdh'owdnnpw Zwhqzktwzh'owjmc
xmhbwhjwoggwhqdhwhqgbwxjk'hwaghwdedbwrcjuwqgcgwhznnweg'igwnjjtgxwzkhj
hqzowhqzkapwSjugwdnjka,wQzkgo;wsjugwdnjka,whqgwcgohwjrwbjmpw Eg'nnwhdtg
hqgogwrgnnjeowhjwhqgwhdigckwdkxwdrrcjkhwhqguwezhqwh'jhqgcwsjmyng,wdkxwZ
cgstjkweg'nnwrzkxwjmhw_ojughqzka_w grjcgwegwaghwhqcjmaqp”

Zhwedowkmhowrjcwhqgwscjex,whqjmaqwudb gwkjhwrjcwhqgwtzka'owrczgkxo;woj
egwdnnwohdchgxpw Zhwedowd jmhwomkxjekpw Hqgwxjshjcwqgwngxwugwdnjkaw b
hqgwqdkx,wdkxwedowyngkhbwtzkxwgkjmaq,w mhwqgwkgigcwnghwajwubwqdkxp

Egwdnnwajhwzkwdw zawcjjuwzkwhqgwqjhgn,wdkxwnzhwmywojugwsdkxngo,wdkx
rghsqgxwzkwhqgwkgewsjmyngpw Rzcoh,whqgwxjshjcwodbo:

“Zwxjk'hwezoqwhjw gwhjjwqdcxwjkwhqgogwhejwugk,w mhwZwhqzktwhqgb'cg
rcdmxo,wdkxwhqgbwudbwqdigwsjuynzsgowhqdhwegwxjk'hwtkjewkjhqzkawd jmhp
 Zrwhqgbwqdig,wejk'hwhqgwsjuynzsgowaghwdedbwezhqwhqdhw dawjrwajnxwYghgc
Ezntowngrh?w Zhwdzk'hwmknztgnbpw Zrwhqgogwugkwdzk'hwrcdmxo,whqgbwejk'h
j .gshwhjwogkxzkawrjcwhqdhwujkgbwdkxwnghhzkawmowtggywzhwhznnwhqgbwycjig
hqgb'cgwdnnwczaqh--dzk'hwhqdhwoj?”

Gigcb jxbwdacggxwhjwhqdhpw OjwZw.mxagxwhqgbwqdxwjmcwadkawzkwdwycghhb
hzaqhwyndsgwczaqhwdhwhqgwjmhohdchpw  mhwhqgwtzkawqgwjknbwnjjtgx
ojccjermn,wdkxwodbo:

“Agkhngugk,wZwezoqwhqgwujkgbwedowhqgcg,wrjcwZwdzk'hwajhwkjwxzoyjozhzjk
hjwhqcjewdkbhqzkawzkwhqgwedbwjrwdwrdzc,wjygk,wjmh-dkx-jmhwzkigohzadhzjk
j'whqzowuzod ngw mozkgoo;w mh,wdndo,whqgwujkgbwdzk'hwhqgcg;wbjmwt'kwogkx
dkxwogg,wzrwbjmwedkhwhjp”

“Eqgcgwzowzh,whqgk?”

“Egnn,weqgkwubwkzgsgwazigwzhwhjwugwhjwtggywrjcwqgcwZwhjjtwdkxwqzxwzh
zkozxgwj'whqgwohcdewhzstwj'wubw gx,wkjhwezoqzk'whjw dktwzhwrjcwhqgwrge
xdboweg'xw gwqgcg,wdkxwsjkozxgczk'whqgw gxwdwodrgwyndsg,wegwkjhw gzk'
mogxwhjwkzaagco,wdkxwomyyjo'k'w'guwqjkgoh,wnztgwogcidkhowzkwGkandkxp
 Hqgwkzaagcowohjngwzhwhqgwigcbwkgfhwujckzk'wdrhgcwZwqdxwegkhwxjek
ohdzco;wdkxweqgkwZwojnxw'guwZwqdxk'hwuzoogxwhqgwujkgbwbzh,wojwhqgbwajh
sngdkwdedbwezhqwzhpw Ubwogcidkhwqgcgwt'kwhgnnwbjmw' jmhwzh,wagkhngugkp”

Hqgwxjshjcwdkxwogigcdnwodzxw“Oqmsto!”wdkxwZwoggwkj jxbwxzxk'hwdnhjaghqgc
 gnzgigwqzupw JkgwudkwdotgxwugwzrwZwoggwhqgwkzaagcowohgdnwzhpw Zwodzx
kj,w mhwZwoggwhqguwokgdtzkawjmhwjrwhqgwcjjuwdkxwqmohnzkawdedb,wdkxwZ
kgigcwhqjmaqhwkjhqzka,wjknbwZwcgstjkgxwhqgbwedowdrcdzxwhqgbwqdxwedtgxwmy
ubwudohgcwdkxwedowhcbzkawhjwaghwdedbw grjcgwqgwudxgwhcjm ngwezhqwhqgup
 Hqdhwedowdnnwhqgbwdotgxwugpw Hqgkwhqgwxjshjcweqzcnowjkwugwdkxwodbo:

“Dcgw_bjm_wGkanzoq,whjj?”

Zwodbowbgo;wdkxwqzuwdkxwojugwjhqgcowndmaqgx,wdkxwodzx,w“Ohmrr!”

Egnn,whqgkwhqgbwodzngxwzkwjkwhqgwagkgcdnwzkigohzadhzjk,wdkxwhqgcgwegwqdx
zh,wmywdkxwxjek,wqjmcwzk,wqjmcwjmh,wdkxwkj jxbwkgigcwodzxwdwejcxwd jmh
omyygc,wkjcwgigcwoggugxwhjwhqzktwd jmhwzh--dkxwojwhqgbwtgyhwzhwmy,wdkx
tgyhwzhwmy;wdkxwzhw_edo_whqgwejcohwuzfgx-mywhqzkawbjmwgigcwoggpw Hqgb
udxgwhqgwtzkawhgnnwqzowbdck,wdkxwhqgbwudxgwhqgwjnxwagkhngudkwhgnnwqzo'k;
dkxwdkb jxbw mhwdwnjhwjrwycg.mxzsgxwsqmstngqgdxowejmnxwdw_oggk_whqdhwhqg
jnxwagkhngudkwedowoyzkkzkawhcmhqwdkxwh'jhqgcwjkgwnzgopw Dkxw bwdkxw b
hqgbwqdxwugwmywhjwhgnnweqdhwZwtkjegxpw Hqgwtzkawqgwazigwugwdwngrh-qdkxgx
njjtwjmhwjrwhqgwsjckgcwjrwqzowgbg,wdkxwojwZwtkjegxwgkjmaqwhjwhdntwjkwhqg
czaqhwozxgpw Zw gamkwhjwhgnnwd jmhwOqgrrzgnx,wdkxwqjewegwnzigxwhqgcg,
dkxwdnnwd jmhwhqgwGkanzoqwEzntogo,wdkxwojwjk;w mhwZwxzxk'hwaghwycghhb
rmcwhznnwhqgwxjshjcw gamkwhjwndmaq;wdkxwNgizw gnn,whqgwndebgc,wodbo:

“Oghwxjek,wubw jb;wZwejmnxk'hwohcdzkwubognrwzrwZwedowbjmpw Zwcgstjk
bjmwdzk'hwmogxwhjwnbzka,wzhwxjk'hwogguwhjwsjugwqdkxb;weqdhwbjmwedkhwzo
ycdshzsgpw Bjmwxjwzhwycghhbwdetedcxp”

Zwxzxk'hwsdcgwkjhqzkawrjcwhqgwsjuynzugkh,w mhwZwedowandxwhjw gwnghwjrr,
dkbedbp

Hqgwxjshjcwqgwohdchgxwhjwodbwojughqzka,wdkxwhmckowdkxwodbo:

“Zrwbjm'xw ggkwzkwhjekwdhwrzcoh,wNgizw gnn--”wHqgwtzkaw cjtgwzkwdkx
cgdsqgxwjmhwqzowqdkx,wdkxwodbo:

“Eqb,wzowhqzowubwyjjcwxgdxw cjhqgc'owjnxwrczgkxwhqdhwqg'owecjhgwojwjrhgk
d jmh?”

Hqgwndebgcwdkxwqzuwoqjjtwqdkxo,wdkxwhqgwndebgcwouzngxwdkxwnjjtgx
yngdogx,wdkxwhqgbwhdntgxwczaqhwdnjkawdeqzng,wdkxwhqgkwajhwhjwjkgwozxg
dkxwhdntgxwnje;wdkxwdhwndohwhqgwndebgcwoygdtowmywdkxwodbo:

“Hqdhw'nnwrzfwzhpw Z'nnwhdtgwhqgwjcxgcwdkxwogkxwzh,wdnjkawezhqwbjmc
 cjhqgc'o,wdkxwhqgkwhqgb'nnwtkjewzh'owdnnwczaqhp”

Ojwhqgbwajhwojugwydygcwdkxwdwygk,wdkxwhqgwtzkawqgwoghwxjekwdkxwhezohgx
qzowqgdxwhjwjkgwozxg,wdkxwsqdegxwqzowhjkamg,wdkxwoscdengxwjrrwojughqzka;
dkxwhqgkwhqgbwazigwhqgwygkwhjwhqgwxmtg--dkxwhqgkwrjcwhqgwrzcohwhzugwhqg
xmtgwnjjtgxwozstpw  mhwqgwhjjtwhqgwygkwdkxwecjhgpw Ojwhqgkwhqgwndebgc
hmckowhjwhqgwkgewjnxwagkhngudkwdkxwodbo:

“Bjmwdkxwbjmcw cjhqgcwyngdogweczhgwdwnzkgwjcwhejwdkxwozakwbjmcwkdugop”

Hqgwjnxwagkhngudkwecjhg,w mhwkj jxbwsjmnxk'hwcgdxwzhpw Hqgwndebgcwnjjtgx
yjegcrmnwdohjkzoqgx,wdkxwodbo:

“Egnn,wzhw gdhow_ug_”--dkxwokdtgxwdwnjhwjrwjnxwnghhgcowjmhwjrwqzowyjstgh,
dkxwgfduzkgxwhqgu,wdkxwhqgkwgfduzkgxwhqgwjnxwudk'oweczhzka,wdkxwhqgk
_hqgu_wdadzk;wdkxwhqgkwodbo:ww“HqgogwjnxwnghhgcowzowrcjuwQdcigbwEznto;
dkxwqgcg'ow_hqgog_whejwqdkxeczhzkao,wdkxwdkb jxbwsdkwoggwhqgbwxzxk'h
eczhgwhqgu”w(hqgwtzkawdkxwhqgwxmtgwnjjtgxwojnxwdkxwrjjnzoq,wZwhgnn
bjm,whjwoggwqjewhqgwndebgcwqdxwhjjtwhqguwzk),w“dkxwqgcg'ow_hqzo_wjnx
agkhngudk'owqdkxweczhzka,wdkxwdkb jxbwsdkwhgnn,wgdobwgkjmaq,w_qg_wxzxk'h
eczhgwhqgu--rdshwzo,whqgwoscdhsqgowqgwudtgowdzk'hwycjygcnbw_eczhzka_wdh
dnnpw Kje,wqgcg'owojugwnghhgcowrcju--”

Hqgwkgewjnxwagkhngudkwodbo:

“Zrwbjmwyngdog,wnghwugwgfyndzkpw Kj jxbwsdkwcgdxwubwqdkxw mhwubw cjhqgc
hqgcg--ojwqgwsjyzgowrjcwugpw Zh'ow_qzo_wqdkxwbjm'igwajhwhqgcg,wkjhwuzkgp”

“_Egnn_!”wodbowhqgwndebgc,w“hqzow_zo_wdwohdhgwjrwhqzkaopw Z'igwajhwojug
jrwEznnzdu'ownghhgco,whjj;wojwzrwbjm'nnwaghwqzuwhjweczhgwdwnzkgwjcwojweg
sdkwsju--”

“Qgw_sdk'h_weczhgwezhqwqzowngrhwqdkx,”wodbowhqgwjnxwagkhngudkpww“Zrwqg
sjmnxwmogwqzowczaqhwqdkx,wbjmwejmnxwoggwhqdhwqgwecjhgwqzowjekwnghhgco
dkxwuzkgwhjjpw Njjtwdhw jhq,wyngdog--hqgb'cgw bwhqgwodugwqdkxp”

Hqgwndebgcwxjkgwzh,wdkxwodbo:

“Zw gnzgigwzh'owoj--dkxwzrwzhwdzk'hwoj,whqgcg'owdwqgdywohcjkagc
cgogu ndksgwhqdkwZ'xwkjhzsgxw grjcg,wdkbedbpw Egnn,wegnn,wegnn!w Z
hqjmaqhwegwedowczaqhwjkwhqgwhcdstwjrwdwojnmhzjk,w mhwzh'owajkgwhjwacdoo,
ydchnbpw  mhwdkbedb,wjkgwhqzkawzowycjigx--_hqgog_whejwdzk'hwgzhqgcwjrw'gu
Ezntogo”--dkxwqgwedaagxwqzowqgdxwhjedcxowhqgwtzkawdkxwhqgwxmtgp

Egnn,weqdhwxjwbjmwhqzkt?w Hqdhwumngqgdxgxwjnxwrjjnwejmnxk'hwazigwzk
_hqgk_!wZkxggxwqgwejmnxk'hpw Odzxwzhwedck'hwkjwrdzcwhgohpw Odzxwqzo
 cjhqgcwEznnzduwedowhqgwsmoogxgohw.jtgcwzkwhqgwejcnx,wdkxwqdxk'hwhczgx
hjweczhg--_qg_woggwEznnzduwedowajzkawhjwyndbwjkgwjrwqzow.jtgowhqgwuzkmhg
qgwymhwhqgwygkwhjwydygcpw Dkxwojwqgwedcugxwmywdkxwegkhwedc nzkawdkx
edc nzkawczaqhwdnjkawhznnwqgwedowdshmnbw gazkkzkawhjw gnzgigweqdhwqgwedo
odbzkaw_qzuognr_;w mhwycghhbwojjkwhqgwkgewagkhngudkw cjtgwzk,wdkxwodbo:

“Z'igwhqjmaqhwjrwojughqzkapw Zowhqgcgwdkb jxbwqgcgwhqdhwqgnygxwhjwndb
jmhwubw c--qgnygxwhjwndbwjmhwhqgwndhgwYghgcwEzntowrjcw mcbzka?”

“Bgo,”wodbowojug jxb,w“ugwdkxwD wHmckgcwxjkgwzhpw Eg'cgw jhqwqgcgp”

Hqgkwhqgwjnxwudkwhmckowhjedcxowhqgwtzka,wdkxwodbo:

“Ygcqdyowhqzowagkhngudkwsdkwhgnnwugweqdhwedowhdhhjjgxwjkwqzow cgdoh?”

 ndugxwzrwhqgwtzkawxzxk'hwqdigwhjw cdsgwmywuzaqhbwvmzst,wjcwqg'xwd
ovmoqgxwxjekwnztgwdw nmrrw dktwhqdhwhqgwczigcwqdowsmhwmkxgc,wzhwhjjt
qzuwojwomxxgk;wdkx,wuzkxwbjm,wzhwedowdwhqzkawhqdhwedowsdnsmndhgxwhjwudtg
ujohw_dkb jxb_wovmoqwhjwaghwrghsqgxwomsqwdwojnzxwjkgwdowhqdhwezhqjmhwdkb
kjhzsg,w gsdmogwqjewedow_qg_wajzkawhjwtkjeweqdhwedowhdhhjjgxwjkwhqgwudk?
 Qgweqzhgkgxwdwnzhhng;wqgwsjmnxk'hwqgnywzh;wdkxwzhwedowuzaqhbwohznnwzk
hqgcg,wdkxwgigcb jxbw gkxzkawdwnzhhngwrjcedcxowdkxwadlzkawdhwqzupw Odbo
Zwhjwubognr,w_kje_wqg'nnwhqcjewmywhqgwoyjkag--hqgcgwdzk'hwkjwujcgwmogp
 Egnn,wxzxwqg?w Dw jxbwsdk'hwqdcxnbw gnzgigwzh,w mhwqgwxzxk'hpw Zwcgstjk
qgwhqjmaqhwqg'xwtggywhqgwhqzkawmywhznnwqgwhzcgxwhqguwygjyngwjmh,woj
hqgb'xwhqzkwjmh,wdkxwqzuwdkxwhqgwxmtgwsjmnxw cgdtwnjjogwdkxwaghwdedbp
 Dkbedb,wqgwoghwhqgcg,wdkxwycghhbwojjkwqgw gamkwhjwouzng,wdkxwodbo:

“Ur!w Zh'owdw_igcb_whjmaqwvmgohzjk,w_dzk'h_wzh!w _bgo_,wozc,wZwt'k
hgnnwbjmweqdh'owhdhhjjgxwjkwqzow cgdohpw Zh'ow.gohwdwoudnn,whqzk,w nmg
dccje--hqdh'oweqdhwzhwzo;wdkxwzrwbjmwxjk'hwnjjtwsnjoh,wbjmwsdk'hwoggwzhp
 _kje_weqdhwxjwbjmwodb--qgb?”

Egnn,wZwkgigcwoggwdkbhqzkawnztgwhqdhwjnxw nzohgcwrjcwsngdkwjmh-dkx-jmh
sqggtp

Hqgwkgewjnxwagkhngudkwhmckow czotwhjedcxowD wHmckgcwdkxwqzowydcx,wdkx
qzowgbgwnzaqhowmywnztgwqgw.mxagxwqg'xwajhwhqgwtzkaw_hqzo_whzug,wdkx
odbo:

“Hqgcg--bjm'igwqgdcxweqdhwqgwodzx!w EdowhqgcgwdkbwomsqwudctwjkwYghgc
Eznto'w cgdoh?”

 jhqwjrwhqguwoyjtgwmywdkxwodbo:

“Egwxzxk'hwoggwkjwomsqwudctp”

“Ajjx!”wodbowhqgwjnxwagkhngudkpww“Kje,weqdhwbjmw_xzx_woggwjkwqzow cgdoh
edowdwoudnnwxzuwY,wdkxwdw w(eqzsqwzowdkwzkzhzdnwqgwxcjyygxweqgkwqgwedo
bjmka),wdkxwdwE,wezhqwxdoqgow gheggkwhqgu,woj:w Y-- --E”--dkxwqgwudctgx
hqguwhqdhwedbwjkwdwyzgsgwjrwydygcpww“Sjug,wdzk'hwhqdhweqdhwbjmwode?”

 jhqwjrwhqguwoyjtgwmywdadzk,wdkxwodbo:

“Kj,wegw_xzxk'h_pw Egwkgigcwoggkwdkbwudctowdhwdnnp”

Egnn,wgigcb jxbw_edo_wzkwdwohdhgwjrwuzkxwkje,wdkxwhqgbwozkaowjmh:

“Hqgweqjngw_ znzk_'wjrw'uw'owrcdmxo!w Ng'owxmstw'gu!wng'owxcjekw'gu!
ng'owczxgw'guwjkwdwcdzn!”wdkxwgigcb jxbwedoweqjjyzkawdhwjksg,wdkxwhqgcg
edowdwcdhhnzkawyjeejepw  mhwhqgwndebgcwqgw.muyowjkwhqgwhd ngwdkxwbgnno,
dkxwodbo:

“Agkhngugk--agkhng_ugk!_w Qgdcwugw.mohwdwejcx--.mohwdw_ozkang_wejcx--zrwbjm
_yngdog_!w Hqgcg'owjkgwedbwbgh--ngh'owajwdkxwxzawmywhqgwsjcyogwdkxwnjjtp”

Hqdhwhjjtwhqgup

“Qjjcdb!”whqgbwdnnwoqjmhgx,wdkxwedowohdchzkawczaqhwjrr;w mhwhqgwndebgc
dkxwhqgwxjshjcwomkawjmh:

“Qjnxwjk,wqjnxwjk!w Sjnndcwdnnwhqgogwrjmcwugkwdkxwhqgw jb,wdkxwrghsq
_hqgu_wdnjka,whjj!”

“Eg'nnwxjwzh!”whqgbwdnnwoqjmhgx;w“dkxwzrwegwxjk'hwrzkxwhqguwudctoweg'nn
nbksqwhqgweqjngwadka!”

Zw_edo_wosdcgx,wkje,wZwhgnnwbjmpw  mhwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwaghhzkawdedb,wbjm
tkjepwHqgbwaczyygxwmowdnn,wdkxwudcsqgxwmowczaqhwdnjka,wohcdzaqhwrjcwhqg
acdigbdcx,weqzsqwedowdwuzngwdkxwdwqdnrwxjekwhqgwczigc,wdkxwhqgweqjng
hjekwdhwjmcwqggno,wrjcwegwudxgwkjzogwgkjmaq,wdkxwzhwedowjknbwkzkgwzkwhqg
gigkzkap

Dowegwegkhw bwjmcwqjmogwZwezoqgxwZwqdxk'hwogkhwUdcbw.dkgwjmhwjrwhjek;
 gsdmogwkjewzrwZwsjmnxwhzywqgcwhqgwezktwoqg'xwnzaqhwjmhwdkxwodigwug,wdkx
 njewjkwjmcwxgdx- gdhop

Egnn,wegwoedcugxwdnjkawxjekwhqgwczigcwcjdx,w.mohwsdccbzkawjkwnztg
eznxsdho;wdkxwhjwudtgwzhwujcgwosdcbwhqgwotbwedowxdctzkawmy,wdkxwhqg
nzaqhkzkaw gazkkzkawhjwezktwdkxwrnzhhgc,wdkxwhqgwezkxwhjwoqzigcwdujkaoh
hqgwngdigopwHqzowedowhqgwujohwdermnwhcjm ngwdkxwujohwxdkagcojugwZwgigc
edowzk;wdkxwZwedowtzkxgcwohmkkgx;wgigcbhqzkawedowajzkawojwxzrrgcgkhwrcju
eqdhwZwqdxwdnnjegxwrjc;wohgdxwjrw gzkawrzfgxwojwZwsjmnxwhdtgwubwjekwhzug
zrwZwedkhgxwhj,wdkxwoggwdnnwhqgwrmk,wdkxwqdigwUdcbw.dkgwdhwubw dstwhj
odigwugwdkxwoghwugwrcggweqgkwhqgwsnjog-rzhwsjug,wqgcgwedowkjhqzkawzkwhqg
ejcnxw ghezfhwugwdkxwomxxgkwxgdhqw mhw.mohwhqguwhdhhjj-udctopw Zrwhqgb
xzxk'hwrzkxwhqgu--

Zwsjmnxk'hw gdcwhjwhqzktwd jmhwzh;wdkxwbgh,wojugqje,wZwsjmnxk'hwhqzkt
d jmhwkjhqzkawgnogpw Zhwajhwxdctgcwdkxwxdctgc,wdkxwzhwedowdw gdmhzrmn
hzugwhjwazigwhqgwscjexwhqgwonzy;w mhwhqdhw zawqmotbwqdxwugw bwhqg
eczoh--Qzkgo--dkxwdw jxbwuzaqhwdowegnnwhcbwhjwazigwAjnzdcwhqgwonzypw Qg
xcdaagxwugwczaqhwdnjka,wqgwedowojwgfszhgx,wdkxwZwqdxwhjwcmkwhjwtggywmyp

Eqgkwhqgbwajhwhqgcgwhqgbwoedcugxwzkhjwhqgwacdigbdcxwdkxwedoqgxwjigcwzh
nztgwdkwjigcrnjepw Dkxweqgkwhqgbwajhwhjwhqgwacdigwhqgbwrjmkxwhqgbwqdx
d jmhwdwqmkxcgxwhzugowdowudkbwoqjignowdowhqgbwedkhgx,w mhwkj jxbwqdxk'h
hqjmaqhwhjwrghsqwdwndkhgckpw  mhwhqgbwodzngxwzkhjwxzaazkawdkbedbw bwhqg
rnzstgcwjrwhqgwnzaqhkzka,wdkxwogkhwdwudkwhjwhqgwkgdcgohwqjmog,wdwqdnrwd
uzngwjrr,whjw jccjewjkgp

Ojwhqgbwxmawdkxwxmawnztgwgigcbhqzka;wdkxwzhwajhwdermnwxdct,wdkxwhqgwcdzk
ohdchgx,wdkxwhqgwezkxwoezoqgxwdkxwoemoqgxwdnjka,wdkxwhqgwnzaqhkzkawsjug
 czotgcwdkxw czotgc,wdkxwhqgwhqmkxgcw jjugx;w mhwhqguwygjyngwkgigcwhjjt
kjwkjhzsgwjrwzh,whqgbwedowojwrmnnwjrwhqzow mozkgoo;wdkxwjkgwuzkmhg
bjmwsjmnxwoggwgigcbhqzkawdkxwgigcbwrdsgwzkwhqdhw zawscjex,wdkxwhqg
oqjignrmnowjrwxzchwodznzkawmywjmhwjrwhqgwacdig,wdkxwhqgwkgfhwogsjkxwhqg
xdctwezygxwzhwdnnwjmh,wdkxwbjmwsjmnxk'hwoggwkjhqzkawdhwdnnp

Dhwndohwhqgbwajhwjmhwhqgwsjrrzkwdkxw gamkwhjwmkoscgewhqgwnzx,wdkxwhqgk
omsqwdkjhqgcwscjexzkawdkxwoqjmnxgczkawdkxwoqjizkawdowhqgcgwedo,whj
oscjmagwzkwdkxwaghwdwozaqh,wbjmwkgigcwogg;wdkxwzkwhqgwxdct,whqdhwedb,wzh
edowdermnpw Qzkgowqgwqmchwubweczohwxcgdxrmnwymnnzkawdkxwhmaazkawoj,
dkxwZwcgstjkwqgwsngdkwrjcajhwZwedowzkwhqgwejcnx,wqgwedowojwgfszhgxwdkx
ydkhzkap

Dnnwjrwdwomxxgkwhqgwnzaqhkzkawnghwajwdwygcrgshwonmzsgwjrweqzhgwandcg,
dkxwojug jxbwozkaowjmh:

“ bwhqgwnzizkaw.zkaj,wqgcg'owhqgw dawjrwajnxwjkwqzow cgdoh!”

Qzkgownghwjmhwdweqjjy,wnztgwgigcb jxbwgnog,wdkxwxcjyygxwubweczohwdkx
azigwdw zawomcagwhjw mohwqzowedbwzkwdkxwaghwdwnjjt,wdkxwhqgwedbwZwnzh
jmhwdkxwoqzkkgxwrjcwhqgwcjdxwzkwhqgwxdctwhqgcgwdzk'hwkj jxbwsdkwhgnnp

Zwqdxwhqgwcjdxwdnnwhjwubognr,wdkxwZwrdzcnbwrnge--ngdohedbo,wZwqdxwzhwdnn
hjwubognrwgfsgyhwhqgwojnzxwxdct,wdkxwhqgwkje-dkx-hqgkwandcgo,wdkxwhqg
 mllzkawjrwhqgwcdzk,wdkxwhqgwhqcdoqzkawjrwhqgwezkx,wdkxwhqgwoynzhhzkawjr
hqgwhqmkxgc;wdkxwomcgwdowbjmwdcgw jckwZwxzxwsnzywzhwdnjka!

EqgkwZwohcmstwhqgwhjekwZwoggwhqgcgwedck'hwkj jxbwjmhwzkwhqgwohjcu,woj
Zwkgigcwqmkhgxwrjcwkjw dstwohcggho,w mhwqmuygxwzhwohcdzaqhwhqcjmaqwhqg
udzkwjkg;wdkxweqgkwZw gamkwhjwaghwhjedcxowjmcwqjmogwZwdzugxwubwgbgwdkx
oghwzhpwKjwnzaqhwhqgcg;whqgwqjmogwdnnwxdct--eqzsqwudxgwugwrggnwojccbwdkx
xzodyyjzkhgx,wZwxzxk'hwtkjeweqbpw  mhwdhwndoh,w.mohwdowZwedowodznzkaw b,
_rndoq_wsjugowhqgwnzaqhwzkwUdcbw.dkg'owezkxje!wdkxwubwqgdchwoegnngxwmy
omxxgk,wnztgwhjw moh;wdkxwhqgwodugwogsjkxwhqgwqjmogwdkxwdnnwedow gqzkx
ugwzkwhqgwxdct,wdkxwedok'hwgigcwajzkawhjw gw grjcgwugwkjwujcgwzkwhqzo
ejcnxpwOqgw_edo_whqgw gohwazcnwZwgigcwogg,wdkxwqdxwhqgwujohwodkxp

HqgwuzkmhgwZwedowrdcwgkjmaqwd jigwhqgwhjekwhjwoggwZwsjmnxwudtgwhqg
hjeqgdx,wZw gamkwhjwnjjtwoqdcywrjcwdw jdhwhjw jccje,wdkxwhqgwrzcoh
hzugwhqgwnzaqhkzkawoqjegxwugwjkgwhqdhwedok'hwsqdzkgxwZwokdhsqgxwzhwdkx
oqjigxpwZhwedowdwsdkjg,wdkxwedck'hwrdohgkgxwezhqwkjhqzkaw mhwdwcjygp
 Hqgwhjeqgdxwedowdwcdhhnzkaw zawxzohdksgwjrr,wdedbwjmhwhqgcgwzkwhqg
uzxxngwjrwhqgwczigc,w mhwZwxzxk'hwnjogwkjwhzug;wdkxweqgkwZwohcmstwhqg
cdrhwdhwndohwZwedowojwrdaagxwZwejmnxwdw.mohwndzxwxjekwhjw njewdkxwadoy
zrwZwsjmnxwdrrjcxgxwzhpw  mhwZwxzxk'hpw DowZwoycmkawd jdcxwZwomkawjmh:

“Jmhwezhqwbjm,w.zu,wdkxwoghwqgcwnjjog!w Anjcbw gwhjwajjxkgoo,weg'cgwoqmh
jrwhqgu!”

.zuwnzhwjmh,wdkxwedowd-sjuzkawrjcwugwezhqw jhqwdcuowoycgdx,wqgwedowoj
rmnnwjrw.jb;w mhweqgkwZwanzuyogxwqzuwzkwhqgwnzaqhkzkawubwqgdchwoqjhwmy
zkwubwujmhqwdkxwZwegkhwjigc jdcxw dstedcxo;wrjcwZwrjcajhwqgwedowjnxwTzka
NgdcwdkxwdwxcjekxgxwD-cd wdnnwzkwjkg,wdkxwzhwujohwosdcgxwhqgwnzigcowdkx
nzaqhowjmhwjrwugpw  mhw.zuwrzoqgxwugwjmh,wdkxwedowajzkawhjwqmawugwdkx
 ngoowug,wdkxwojwjk,wqgwedowojwandxwZwedow dstwdkxwegwedowoqmhwjrwhqg
tzkawdkxwhqgwxmtg,w mhwZwodbo:

“Kjhwkje;wqdigwzhwrjcw cgdtrdoh,wqdigwzhwrjcw cgdtrdoh!w Smhwnjjogwdkx
nghwqgcwonzxg!”

Ojwzkwhejwogsjkxowdedbwegwegkhwd-onzxzkawxjekwhqgwczigc,wdkxwzhw_xzx_
ogguwojwajjxwhjw gwrcggwdadzkwdkxwdnnw bwjmcognigowjkwhqgw zawczigc,wdkx
kj jxbwhjw jhqgcwmopw Zwqdxwhjwotzywdcjmkxwdw zh,wdkxw.muywmywdkxwscdst
ubwqggnowdwrgewhzugo--Zwsjmnxk'hwqgnywzh;w mhwd jmhwhqgwhqzcxwscdst
ZwkjhzsgxwdwojmkxwhqdhwZwtkjegxwuzaqhbwegnn,wdkxwqgnxwubw cgdhqwdkx
nzohgkgxwdkxwedzhgx;wdkxwomcgwgkjmaq,weqgkwhqgwkgfhwrndoqw mohgxwjmh
jigcwhqgwedhgc,wqgcgwhqgbwsjug!--dkxw.mohwd-ndbzkawhjwhqgzcwjdcowdkx
udtzkawhqgzcwotzrrwqmu!w Zhwedowhqgwtzkawdkxwhqgwxmtgp

OjwZweznhgxwczaqhwxjekwjkwhjwhqgwyndktowhqgk,wdkxwazigwmy;wdkxwzhwedo
dnnwZwsjmnxwxjwhjwtggywrcjuwscbzkap




SQDYHGCwFFFp

EQGKwhqgbwajhwd jdcxwhqgwtzkawegkhwrjcwug,wdkxwoqjjtwugw bwhqgwsjnndc,
dkxwodbo:

“Hcbzk'whjwazigwmowhqgwonzy,wedowbg,wbjmwymy!w Hzcgxwjrwjmcwsjuydkb,
qgb?”

Zwodbo:

“Kj,wbjmcwud.gohb,wegwedck'h--_yngdog_wxjk'h,wbjmcwud.gohb!”

“Vmzst,whqgk,wdkxwhgnnwmoweqdhw_edo_wbjmcwzxgd,wjcwZ'nnwoqdtgwhqg
zkozxgowjmhwj'wbjm!”

“Qjkgoh,wZ'nnwhgnnwbjmwgigcbhqzkaw.mohwdowzhwqdyygkgx,wbjmcwud.gohbp
 Hqgwudkwhqdhwqdxwd-qjnhwjrwugwedowigcbwajjxwhjwug,wdkxwtgyhwodbzkawqg
qdxwdw jbwd jmhwdow zawdowugwhqdhwxzgxwndohwbgdc,wdkxwqgwedowojccb
hjwoggwdw jbwzkwomsqwdwxdkagcjmowrzf;wdkxweqgkwhqgbwedowdnnwhjjtw b
omcyczogw bwrzkxzkawhqgwajnx,wdkxwudxgwdwcmoqwrjcwhqgwsjrrzk,wqgwnghowaj
jrwugwdkxweqzoygco,w'Qggnwzhwkje,wjcwhqgb'nnwqdkawbg,womcg!'wdkxwZwnzh
jmhpw Zhwxzxk'hwogguwkjwajjxwrjcw_ug_whjwohdb--Zwsjmnxk'hwxjwkjhqzka,
dkxwZwxzxk'hwedkhwhjw gwqmkawzrwZwsjmnxwaghwdedbpw OjwZwkgigcwohjyygx
cmkkzkawhznnwZwrjmkxwhqgwsdkjg;wdkxweqgkwZwajhwqgcgwZwhjnxw.zuwhjwqmccb,
jcwhqgb'xwsdhsqwugwdkxwqdkawugwbgh,wdkxwodzxwZwedowdrgdcxwbjmwdkxwhqg
xmtgwedok'hwdnzigwkje,wdkxwZwedowdermnwojccb,wdkxwojwedow.zu,wdkxwedo
dermnwandxweqgkwegwoggwbjmwsjuzka;wbjmwudbwdotw.zuwzrwZwxzxk'hp”

.zuwodzxwzhwedowoj;wdkxwhqgwtzkawhjnxwqzuwhjwoqmhwmy,wdkxwodzx,w“Jq,
bgo,wzh'ow_uzaqhb_wnztgnb!”wdkxwoqjjtwugwmywdadzk,wdkxwodzxwqgwcgstjkgx
qg'xwxcjekxwugpw  mhwhqgwxmtgwodbo:

“Ngaajwhqgw jb,wbjmwjnxwzxzjh!w Ejmnxw_bjm_wdwxjkgwdkbwxzrrgcgkh?w Xzx
bjmwzkvmzcgwdcjmkxwrjcw_qzu_weqgkwbjmwajhwnjjog?w Zwxjk'hwcgugu gcwzhp”

Ojwhqgwtzkawnghwajwjrwug,wdkxw gamkwhjwsmoowhqdhwhjekwdkxwgigcb jxbwzk
zhpw mhwhqgwxmtgwodbo:

“Bjmw ghhgcwdw ndug'wozaqhwazigw_bjmcognr_wdwajjxwsmoozka,wrjcwbjm'cg
hqgwjkgwhqdh'owgkhzhngxwhjwzhwujohpw Bjmwqdzk'hwxjkgwdwhqzkawrcjuwhqg
ohdchwhqdhwqdxwdkbwogkogwzkwzh,wgfsgyhwsjuzkawjmhwojwsjjnwdkxwsqggtb
ezhqwhqdhwzudazkdcbw nmg-dccjewudctpw Hqdhw_edo_w czaqh--zhwedowczaqh
xjekw mnnb;wdkxwzhwedowhqgwhqzkawhqdhwodigxwmopw Rjcwzrwzhwqdxk'hw ggk
rjcwhqdhwhqgb'xwdw.dzngxwmowhznnwhqguwGkanzoqugk'ow daadagwsjug--dkx
hqgk--hqgwygkzhgkhzdcb,wbjmw gh!w mhwhqdhwhczstwhjjtw'guwhjwhqg
acdigbdcx,wdkxwhqgwajnxwxjkgwmowdwohznnw zaagcwtzkxkgoo;wrjcwzrwhqg
gfszhgxwrjjnowqdxk'hwnghwajwdnnwqjnhowdkxwudxgwhqdhwcmoqwhjwaghwd
njjtweg'xwdwongyhwzkwjmcwscdidhowhj-kzaqh--scdidhowedccdkhgxwhjw_egdc_,
hjj--njkagcwhqdkw_eg'x_wkggxw'gup”

Hqgbwedowohznnwdwuzkmhg--hqzktzka;whqgkwhqgwtzkawodbo,wtzkxwjr
d ogkh-uzkxgxwnztg:

“Ur!w Dkxwegwcgstjkgxwhqgw_kzaagco_wohjngwzh!”

Hqdhwudxgwugwovmzcu!

“Bgo,”wodbowhqgwxmtg,wtzkxgcwonjewdkxwxgnz gcdhgwdkxwodcsdohzs,w“_eg_
xzxp”

Drhgcwd jmhwdwqdnrwdwuzkmhgwhqgwtzkawxcdenowjmh:

“Ngdohedbo,wZwxzxp”

Hqgwxmtgwodbo,whqgwodugwedb:

“Jkwhqgwsjkhcdcb,wZwxzxp”

Hqgwtzkawtzkxwjrwcmrrngowmy,wdkxwodbo:

“Njjtbwqgcg,w znagedhgc,weqdh'cwbjmwcgrgcczk'whj?”

Hqgwxmtgwodbo,wycghhbw czot:

“Eqgkwzhwsjugowhjwhqdh,wudb gwbjm'nnwnghwugwdot,weqdhwedow_bjm_
cgrgcczkawhj?”

“Oqmsto!”wodbowhqgwtzka,wigcbwodcsdohzs;w“ mhwZwxjk'hwtkje--udb gwbjmwedo
donggy,wdkxwxzxk'hwtkjeweqdhwbjmwedowd jmhp”

Hqgwxmtgw czohngowmywkje,wdkxwodbo:

“Jq,wnghw_my_wjkwhqzowsmoogxwkjkogkog;wxjwbjmwhdtgwugwrjcwdw ndug'wrjjn?
Xjk'hwbjmwcgstjkwZwtkjeweqjwqzxwhqdhwujkgbwzkwhqdhwsjrrzk?”

“_Bgo_,wozc!w Zwtkjewbjmw_xj_wtkje,w gsdmogwbjmwxjkgwzhwbjmcognr!”

“Zh'owdwnzg!”--dkxwhqgwxmtgwegkhwrjcwqzupw Hqgwtzkawozkaowjmh:

“Hdtgwb'cwqdkxowjrr!--ngaajwubwhqcjdh!--Zwhdtgwzhwdnnw dst!”

Hqgwxmtgwodbo:

“Egnn,wbjmw.mohwjekwmy,wrzcoh,whqdhwbjmw_xzx_wqzxgwhqdhwujkgbwhqgcg,
zkhgkxzkawhjwazigwugwhqgwonzywjkgwjrwhqgogwxdbo,wdkxwsjugw dstwdkxwxza
zhwmy,wdkxwqdigwzhwdnnwhjwbjmcognrp”

“Edzhw.gohwdwuzkmhg,wxmtg--dkoegcwugwhqzowjkgwvmgohzjk,wqjkgohwdkxwrdzc;
zrwbjmwxzxk'hwymhwhqgwujkgbwhqgcg,wodbwzh,wdkxwZ'nnw 'nzgigwbjm,wdkx
hdtgw dstwgigcbhqzkawZwodzxp”

“Bjmwjnxwosjmkxcgn,wZwxzxk'h,wdkxwbjmwtkjewZwxzxk'hpw Hqgcg,wkje!”

“Egnn,whqgk,wZw 'nzgigwbjmpw  mhwdkoegcwugwjknbw.gohwhqzowjkgwujcg--kje
_xjk'h_wazhwudx;wxzxk'hwbjmwqdigwzhwzkwbjmcwuzkxwhjwqjjtwhqgwujkgbwdkx
qzxgwzh?”

Hqgwxmtgwkgigcwodzxwkjhqzkawrjcwdwnzhhngw zh;whqgkwqgwodbo:

“Egnn,wZwxjk'hwsdcgwzrwZw_xzx_,wZwxzxk'hw_xj_wzh,wdkbedbpw  mhwbjmwkjh
jknbwqdxwzhwzkwuzkxwhjwxjwzh,w mhwbjmw_xjkg_wzhp”

“ZwezoqhwZwkgigcwxzgwzrwZwxjkgwzh,wxmtg,wdkxwhqdh'owqjkgohpw Zwejk'hwodb
Zwedck'hwajzk'whjwxjwzh,w gsdmogwZw_edo_;w mhwbjm--Zwugdkwojug jxb--ajhwzk
dqgdxwj'wugp”

“Zh'owdwnzg!w Bjmwxjkgwzh,wdkxwbjmwajhwhjw_odb_wbjmwxjkgwzh,wjc--”

Hqgwtzkaw gadkwhjwamcang,wdkxwhqgkwqgwadoyowjmh:

“'Kjmaq!--Zw_jekwmy!_”

Zwedowigcbwandxwhjwqgdcwqzuwodbwhqdh;wzhwudxgwugwrggnwumsqwujcgwgdozgc
hqdkweqdhwZwedowrggnzkaw grjcgpw Ojwhqgwxmtgwhjjtwqzowqdkxowjrrwdkx
odbo:

“ZrwbjmwgigcwxgkbwzhwdadzkwZ'nnwxcjekwbjmpw Zh'ow_egnn_wrjcwbjmwhjwogh
hqgcgwdkxw nm  gcwnztgwdw d b--zh'owrzhhgkwrjcwbjm,wdrhgcwhqgwedb
bjm'igwdshgxpwZwkgigcwoggwomsqwdkwjnxwjohczsqwrjcwedkhzkawhjwaj  ng
gigcbhqzka--dkxwZwd-hcmohzkawbjmwdnnwhqgwhzug,wnztgwbjmwedowubwjek
rdhqgcpw Bjmwjmaqhwhjw ggkwdoqdugxwjrwbjmcognrwhjwohdkxw bwdkxwqgdcwzh
odxxngxwjkwhjwdwnjhwjrwyjjcwkzaagco,wdkxwbjmwkgigcwodbwdwejcxwrjcw'gup
 ZhwudtgowugwrggnwczxzsmnjmowhjwhqzktwZwedowojrhwgkjmaqwhjw_ gnzgig_
hqdhwcm  dagpw Smoowbjm,wZwsdkwoggwkjeweqbwbjmwedowojwdkfzjmowhjwudtg
mywhqgwxgrrzozh--bjmwedkhgxwhjwaghweqdhwujkgbwZ'xwajhwjmhwjrwhqgwKjkgomsq
dkxwjkgwhqzkawjcwdkjhqgc,wdkxwosjjywzhw_dnn_!”

Hqgwtzkawodbo,whzuzx,wdkxwohznnwd-okmrrnzka:

“Eqb,wxmtg,wzhwedowbjmwhqdhwodzxwudtgwmywhqgwxgrrzozh;wzhwedck'hwugp”

“Xcbwmy!w Zwxjk'hwedkhwhjwqgdcwkjwujcgwjmhwjrwbjm!”wodbowhqgwxmtgpww“Dkx
_kje_wbjmwoggweqdhwbjmwAJHw bwzhpw Hqgb'igwajhwdnnwhqgzcwjekwujkgbw dst,
dkxwdnnwjrw_jmck_w mhwdwoqgtgnwjcwhejw_ gozxgo_pw A'njkawhjw gx,wdkx
xjk'hwbjmwxgrrgcozhw_ug_wkjwujcgwxgrrgcozho,wnjkaw'ow_bjm_wnzig!”

Ojwhqgwtzkawokgdtgxwzkhjwhqgwezaeduwdkxwhjjtwhjwqzow jhhngwrjcwsjurjch,
dkxw grjcgwnjkawhqgwxmtgwhdstngxwQZOw jhhng;wdkxwojwzkwd jmhwdwqdnrwdk
qjmcwhqgbwedowdowhqzstwdowhqzgigowdadzk,wdkxwhqgwhzaqhgcwhqgbwajhwhqg
njizkagcwhqgbwajh,wdkxwegkhwjrrwd-okjczkawzkwgdsqwjhqgc'owdcuopw Hqgb
 jhqwajhwyjegcrmnwugnnje,w mhwZwkjhzsgxwhqgwtzkawxzxk'hwaghwugnnje
gkjmaqwhjwrjcaghwhjwcgugu gcwhjwkjhwxgkbwd jmhwqzxzkawhqgwujkgb- da
dadzkpw Hqdhwudxgwugwrggnwgdobwdkxwodhzorzgxpw Jrwsjmcogweqgkwhqgbwajh
hjwokjczkawegwqdxwdwnjkawad  ng,wdkxwZwhjnxw.zuwgigcbhqzkap




SQDYHGCwFFFZp

EGwxdok'hwohjywdadzkwdhwdkbwhjekwrjcwxdbowdkxwxdbo;wtgyhwczaqhwdnjka
xjekwhqgwczigcpw Egwedowxjekwojmhqwzkwhqgwedcuwegdhqgcwkje,wdkxwdwuzaqhb
njkawedbowrcjuwqjugpw Egw gamkwhjwsjugwhjwhcggowezhqwOydkzoqwujoowjk
hqgu,wqdkazkawxjekwrcjuwhqgwnzu ownztgwnjka,wacdbw gdcxopw Zhwedowhqg
rzcohwZwgigcwoggwzhwacjezka,wdkxwzhwudxgwhqgwejjxownjjtwojngukwdkx
xzoudnpw Ojwkjewhqgwrcdmxowcgstjkgxwhqgbwedowjmhwjrwxdkagc,wdkxwhqgb
 gamkwhjwejctwhqgwiznndagowdadzkp

Rzcohwhqgbwxjkgwdwngshmcgwjkwhguygcdksg;w mhwhqgbwxzxk'hwudtgwgkjmaq
rjcwhqguw jhqwhjwaghwxcmktwjkpw Hqgkwzkwdkjhqgcwiznndagwhqgbwohdchgx
dwxdkszka-osqjjn;w mhwhqgbwxzxk'hwtkjewkjwujcgwqjewhjwxdksgwhqdkwd
tdkadcjjwxjgo;wojwhqgwrzcohwycdksgwhqgbwudxgwhqgwagkgcdnwym nzsw.muygx
zkwdkxwycdksgxwhqguwjmhwjrwhjekpw Dkjhqgcwhzugwhqgbwhczgxwhjwajwdh
bgnnjsmhzjk;w mhwhqgbwxzxk'hwbgnnjsmhgwnjkawhznnwhqgwdmxzgksgwajhwmywdkx
azigwhqguwdwojnzxwajjxwsmoozka,wdkxwudxgwhqguwotzywjmhpw Hqgbwhdstngx
uzoozjkdcbzka,wdkxwugougczlzka,wdkxwxjshjczka,wdkxwhgnnzkawrjchmkgo,wdkx
dwnzhhngwjrwgigcbhqzka;w mhwhqgbwsjmnxk'hwogguwhjwqdigwkjwnmstpw Ojwdh
ndohwhqgbwajhw.mohwd jmhwxgdxw cjtg,wdkxwndzxwdcjmkxwhqgwcdrhwdowoqg
rnjdhgxwdnjka,whqzktzkawdkxwhqzktzka,wdkxwkgigcwodbzkawkjhqzka,w bwhqg
qdnrwdwxdbwdhwdwhzug,wdkxwxcgdxrmnw nmgwdkxwxgoygcdhgp

Dkxwdhwndohwhqgbwhjjtwdwsqdkagwdkxw gamkwhjwndbwhqgzcwqgdxowhjaghqgcwzk
hqgwezaeduwdkxwhdntwnjewdkxwsjkrzxgkhzdnwhejwjcwhqcggwqjmcowdhwdwhzugp
.zuwdkxwugwajhwmkgdobpw Egwxzxk'hwnztgwhqgwnjjtwjrwzhpw Egw.mxagxwhqgb
edowohmxbzkawmywojugwtzkxwjrwejcogwxgiznhcbwhqdkwgigcpw Egwhmckgxwzh
jigcwdkxwjigc,wdkxwdhwndohwegwudxgwmywjmcwuzkxowhqgbwedowajzkawhjw cgdt
zkhjwojug jxb'owqjmogwjcwohjcg,wjcwedowajzkawzkhjwhqgwsjmkhgcrgzh-ujkgb
 mozkgoo,wjcwojughqzkapwOjwhqgkwegwedowycghhbwosdcgx,wdkxwudxgwmywdk
dacggugkhwhqdhwegwejmnxk'hwqdigwkjhqzkawzkwhqgwejcnxwhjwxjwezhqwomsq
dshzjko,wdkxwzrwegwgigcwajhwhqgwngdohwoqjewegwejmnxwazigwhqguwhqgwsjnx
oqdtgwdkxwsngdcwjmhwdkxwngdigwhqguw gqzkxpwEgnn,wgdcnbwjkgwujckzkaweg
qzxwhqgwcdrhwzkwdwajjx,wodrgwyndsgwd jmhwhejwuzngw gnjewdwnzhhngw zhwjr
dwoqd  bwiznndagwkdugxwYztgoiznng,wdkxwhqgwtzkawqgwegkhwdoqjcgwdkxwhjnx
mowdnnwhjwohdbwqzxweqznohwqgwegkhwmywhjwhjekwdkxwougnhwdcjmkxwhjwogg
zrwdkb jxbwqdxwajhwdkbwezkxwjrwhqgwCjbdnwKjkgomsqwhqgcgwbghpw(“Qjmogwhj
cj ,wbjmw_ugdk_,”wodbowZwhjwubognr;w“dkxweqgkwbjmwaghwhqcjmaqwcj  zkawzh
bjm'nnwsjugw dstwqgcgwdkxwejkxgcweqdhwqdow gsjugwjrwugwdkxw.zuwdkxwhqg
cdrh--dkxwbjm'nnwqdigwhjwhdtgwzhwjmhwzkwejkxgczkap”)wDkxwqgwodzxwzrwqg
edck'hw dstw bwuzxxdbwhqgwxmtgwdkxwugwejmnxwtkjewzhwedowdnnwczaqh,wdkx
egwedowhjwsjugwdnjkap

Ojwegwohdbgxweqgcgwegwedopw Hqgwxmtgwqgwrcghhgxwdkxwoegdhgxwdcjmkx,wdkx
edowzkwdwuzaqhbwojmcwedbpw Qgwosjnxgxwmowrjcwgigcbhqzka,wdkxwegwsjmnxk'h
ogguwhjwxjwkjhqzkawczaqh;wqgwrjmkxwrdmnhwezhqwgigcbwnzhhngwhqzkap
Ojughqzkawedowd- cgezka,womcgpw Zwedowajjxwdkxwandxweqgkwuzxxdbwsjug
dkxwkjwtzka;wegwsjmnxwqdigwdwsqdkag,wdkbedb--dkxwudb gwdwsqdksgwrjcw_hqg_
sqdkagwjkwhjywjrwzhpw Ojwugwdkxwhqgwxmtgwegkhwmywhjwhqgwiznndag,wdkx
qmkhgxwdcjmkxwhqgcgwrjcwhqgwtzka,wdkxw bwdkxw bwegwrjmkxwqzuwzkwhqg
 dstwcjjuwjrwdwnzhhngwnjewxjaagcb,wigcbwhzaqh,wdkxwdwnjhwjrwnjdrgco
 mnnbcdaazkawqzuwrjcwoyjch,wdkxwqgwd-smoozkawdkxwd-hqcgdhgkzkawezhqwdnn
qzowuzaqh,wdkxwojwhzaqhwqgwsjmnxk'hwednt,wdkxwsjmnxk'hwxjwkjhqzkawhj
hqgupw Hqgwxmtgwqgw gamkwhjwd mogwqzuwrjcwdkwjnxwrjjn,wdkxwhqgwtzka
 gamkwhjwodoow dst,wdkxwhqgwuzkmhgwhqgbwedowrdzcnbwdhwzhwZwnzhwjmhwdkx
oqjjtwhqgwcggrowjmhwjrwubwqzkxwngao,wdkxwoymkwxjekwhqgwczigcwcjdxwnztg
dwxggc,wrjcwZwoggwjmcwsqdksg;wdkxwZwudxgwmywubwuzkxwhqdhwzhwejmnxw gwd
njkawxdbw grjcgwhqgbwgigcwoggwugwdkxw.zuwdadzkpw Zwajhwxjekwhqgcgwdnn
jmhwjrw cgdhqw mhwnjdxgxwmywezhqw.jb,wdkxwomkawjmh:

“Oghwqgcwnjjog,w.zu!weg'cgwdnnwczaqhwkje!”

 mhwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwdkoegc,wdkxwkj jxbwsjugwjmhwjrwhqgwezaedupw .zuwedo
ajkg!w Zwoghwmywdwoqjmh--dkxwhqgkwdkjhqgc--dkxwhqgkwdkjhqgcwjkg;wdkxwcmk
hqzowedbwdkxwhqdhwzkwhqgwejjxo,weqjjyzkawdkxwoscggsqzka;w mhwzhwedck'h
kjwmog--jnxw.zuwedowajkgpw HqgkwZwoghwxjekwdkxwsczgx;wZwsjmnxk'hwqgny
zhpw mhwZwsjmnxk'hwoghwohznnwnjkapw YcghhbwojjkwZwegkhwjmhwjkwhqgwcjdx,
hcbzkawhjwhqzktweqdhwZw ghhgcwxj,wdkxwZwcmkwdscjoowdw jbwedntzka,wdkx
dotgxwqzuwzrwqg'xwoggkwdwohcdkagwkzaagcwxcgoogxwojwdkxwoj,wdkxwqgwodbo:

“Bgop”

“Eqgcgd jmho?”wodbowZp

“XjekwhjwOzndowYqgnyo'wyndsg,whejwuzngw gnjewqgcgpw Qg'owdwcmkdedb
kzaagc,wdkxwhqgb'igwajhwqzupw Edowbjmwnjjtzkawrjcwqzu?”

“Bjmw ghwZwdzk'h!w Zwcmkwdscjoowqzuwzkwhqgwejjxowd jmhwdkwqjmcwjcwhej
daj,wdkxwqgwodzxwzrwZwqjnngcgxwqg'xwsmhwubwnzigcowjmh--dkxwhjnxwugwhjwndb
xjekwdkxwohdbweqgcgwZwedo;wdkxwZwxjkgwzhpw  ggkwhqgcgwgigcwozksg;wdrgdcx
hjwsjugwjmhp”

“Egnn,”wqgwodbo,w“bjmwkggxk'hw gwdrgdcxwkjwujcg,w gsmlwhqgb'igwajhwqzup
Qgwcmkwjrrwr'uwxjekwOjmhq,woju'gcop”

“Zh'owdwajjxw.j whqgbwajhwqzup”

“Egnn,wZw_cgstjk_!w Hqgcg'owhejwqmkxgcxwxjnndcowcgedcxwjkwqzupw Zh'o
nztgwyzstzkawmywujkgbwjmh'kwhqgwcjdxp”

“Bgo,wzhwzo--dkxwZwsjmnxwdwqdxwzhwzrwZ'xw ggkw zawgkjmaq;wZwoggwqzu
_rzcoh_pwEqjwkdzngxwqzu?”

“Zhwedowdkwjnxwrgnnje--dwohcdkagc--dkxwqgwojnxwjmhwqzowsqdksgwzkwqzuwrjc
rjchbwxjnndco,w gsmlwqg'owajhwhjwajwmywhqgwczigcwdkxwsdk'hwedzhpw Hqzkt
j'whqdh,wkje!w Bjmw ghw_Z'x_wedzh,wzrwzhwedowogigkwbgdcp”

“Hqdh'owug,wgigcbwhzug,”wodbowZpww“ mhwudb gwqzowsqdksgwdzk'hwejchq
kjwujcgwhqdkwhqdh,wzrwqg'nnwognnwzhwojwsqgdypw Udb gwhqgcg'owojughqzka
dzk'hwohcdzaqhwd jmhwzhp”

“ mhwzhw_zo_,whqjmaq--ohcdzaqhwdowdwohczkapw Zwoggwhqgwqdkx znnwubognrp
 Zhwhgnnowdnnwd jmhwqzu,whjwdwxjh--ydzkhowqzuwnztgwdwyzshmcg,wdkxwhgnno
hqgwyndkhdhzjkwqg'owrcmu,w gnjewKgec_ngdko_pw Kj-ozccgg-_ j _,whqgb
dzk'hwkjwhcjm ngw' jmhw_hqdh_woygsmndhzjk,wbjmw ghwbjmpw Odb,wazuugwd
sqdewhj dstgc,wejk'hwbg?”

Zwxzxk'hwqdigwkjkg,wojwqgwngrhpw Zwegkhwhjwhqgwcdrh,wdkxwoghwxjekwzkwhqg
ezaeduwhjwhqzktpw  mhwZwsjmnxk'hwsjugwhjwkjhqzkapw ZwhqjmaqhwhznnwZwejcg
ubwqgdxwojcg,w mhwZwsjmnxk'hwoggwkjwedbwjmhwjrwhqgwhcjm ngpw Drhgcwdnn
hqzownjkaw.jmckgb,wdkxwdrhgcwdnnweg'xwxjkgwrjcwhqguwosjmkxcgno,wqgcgwzh
edowdnnwsjugwhjwkjhqzka,wgigcbhqzkawdnnw mohgxwmywdkxwcmzkgx,w gsdmog
hqgbwsjmnxwqdigwhqgwqgdchwhjwogcigw.zuwomsqwdwhczstwdowhqdh,wdkxwudtg
qzuwdwondigwdadzkwdnnwqzownzrg,wdkxwdujkaohwohcdkagco,whjj,wrjcwrjchb
xzchbwxjnndcop

JksgwZwodzxwhjwubognrwzhwejmnxw gwdwhqjmodkxwhzugow ghhgcwrjcw.zuwhj
 gwdwondigwdhwqjugweqgcgwqzowrduznbwedo,wdownjkawdowqg'xw_ajh_whjw gwd
ondig,wdkxwojwZ'xw ghhgcweczhgwdwnghhgcwhjwHjuwOdebgcwdkxwhgnnwqzuwhj
hgnnwUzoowEdhojkweqgcgwqgwedopw  mhwZwojjkwazigwmywhqdhwkjhzjkwrjcwhej
hqzkao:woqg'xw gwudxwdkxwxzoamohgxwdhwqzowcdosdnzhbwdkxwmkacdhgrmnkgoo
rjcwngdizkawqgc,wdkxwojwoqg'xwognnwqzuwohcdzaqhwxjekwhqgwczigcwdadzk;
dkxwzrwoqgwxzxk'h,wgigcb jxbwkdhmcdnnbwxgoyzogowdkwmkacdhgrmnwkzaagc,
dkxwhqgb'xwudtgw.zuwrggnwzhwdnnwhqgwhzug,wdkxwojwqg'xwrggnwjckgcbwdkx
xzoacdsgxpwDkxwhqgkwhqzktwjrw_ug_!w ZhwejmnxwaghwdnnwdcjmkxwhqdhwQmst
Rzkkwqgnygxwdwkzaagcwhjwaghwqzowrcggxju;wdkxwzrwZwedowgigcwhjwogg
dkb jxbwrcjuwhqdhwhjekwdadzkwZ'xw gwcgdxbwhjwaghwxjekwdkxwnzstwqzow jjho
rjcwoqdugpw Hqdh'ow.mohwhqgwedb:w dwygcojkwxjgowdwnje-xjekwhqzka,wdkx
hqgkwqgwxjk'hwedkhwhjwhdtgwkjwsjkogvmgksgowjrwzhpwHqzktowdownjkawdowqg
sdkwqzxgwzh,wzhwdzk'hwkjwxzoacdsgpw HqdhwedowubwrzfwgfdshnbpwHqgwujcgwZ
ohmxzgxwd jmhwhqzowhqgwujcgwubwsjkoszgksgwegkhwhjwaczkxzkawug,wdkxwhqg
ujcgwezstgxwdkxwnje-xjekwdkxwjckgcbwZwajhwhjwrggnzkapwDkxwdhwndoh,weqgk
zhwqzhwugwdnnwjrwdwomxxgkwhqdhwqgcgwedowhqgwyndzkwqdkxwjrwYcjizxgksg
ondyyzkawugwzkwhqgwrdsgwdkxwnghhzkawugwtkjewubwezstgxkgoowedow gzka
edhsqgxwdnnwhqgwhzugwrcjuwmywhqgcgwzkwqgdigk,weqznohwZwedowohgdnzkawd
yjjcwjnxwejudk'owkzaagcwhqdhwqdxk'hwgigcwxjkgwugwkjwqdcu,wdkxwkjewedo
oqjezkawugwhqgcg'owJkgwhqdh'owdnedbowjkwhqgwnjjtjmh,wdkxwdzk'hwd-ajzka
hjwdnnjewkjwomsqwuzogcd ngwxjzkaowhjwajwjknbw.mohwojwrmcwdkxwkjwrmchqgc,
ZwujohwxcjyygxwzkwubwhcdstowZwedowojwosdcgxpw Egnn,wZwhczgxwhqgw gohwZ
sjmnxwhjwtzkxgcwojrhgkwzhwmywojugqjewrjcwubognrw bwodbzkawZwedow cmka
mywezstgx,wdkxwojwZwedck'hwojwumsqwhjw ndug;w mhwojughqzkawzkozxgwjrwug
tgyhwodbzka,w“HqgcgwedowhqgwOmkxdb-osqjjn,wbjmwsjmnxwdwajkgwhjwzh;wdkx
zrwbjm'xwdwxjkgwzhwhqgb'xwdwngdckhwbjmwhqgcgwhqdhwygjyngwhqdhwdshowdo
Z'xw ggkwdshzkawd jmhwhqdhwkzaagcwajgowhjwgigcndohzkawrzcgp”

Zhwudxgwugwoqzigcpw DkxwZwd jmhwudxgwmywubwuzkxwhjwycdb,wdkxwoggwzrwZ
sjmnxk'hwhcbwhjwvmzhw gzkawhqgwtzkxwjrwdw jbwZwedowdkxw gw ghhgcpw Oj
Zwtkggngxwxjekpw  mhwhqgwejcxowejmnxk'hwsjugpw Eqbwejmnxk'hwhqgb?w Zh
edck'hwkjwmogwhjwhcbwdkxwqzxgwzhwrcjuwQzupw Kjcwrcjuw_ug_,wkgzhqgcpw Z
tkjegxwigcbwegnnweqbwhqgbwejmnxk'hwsjugpw Zhwedow gsdmogwubwqgdchwedck'h
czaqh;wzhwedow gsdmogwZwedck'hwovmdcg;wzhwedow gsdmogwZwedowyndbzka
xjm ngpw Zwedownghhzkaw_jk_whjwazigwmywozk,w mhwdedbwzkozxgwjrwugwZwedo
qjnxzkawjkwhjwhqgw zaagohwjkgwjrwdnnpw Zwedowhcbzkawhjwudtgwubwujmhq
_odb_wZwejmnxwxjwhqgwczaqhwhqzkawdkxwhqgwsngdkwhqzka,wdkxwajwdkxweczhg
hjwhqdhwkzaagc'owjekgcwdkxwhgnnweqgcgwqgwedo;w mhwxggywxjekwzkwugwZ
tkjegxwzhwedowdwnzg,wdkxwQgwtkjegxwzhpw Bjmwsdk'hwycdbwdwnzg--Zwrjmkx
hqdhwjmhp

OjwZwedowrmnnwjrwhcjm ng,wrmnnwdowZwsjmnxw g;wdkxwxzxk'hwtkjeweqdhwhj
xjpwDhwndohwZwqdxwdkwzxgd;wdkxwZwodbo,wZ'nnwajwdkxweczhgwhqgwnghhgc--dkx
hqgkwoggwzrwZwsdkwycdbpw Eqb,wzhwedowdohjkzoqzka,whqgwedbwZwrgnhwdo
nzaqhwdowdwrgdhqgcwczaqhwohcdzaqhwjrr,wdkxwubwhcjm ngowdnnwajkgpw OjwZ
ajhwdwyzgsgwjrwydygcwdkxwdwygkszn,wdnnwandxwdkxwgfszhgx,wdkxwoghwxjek
dkxwecjhg:

UzoowEdhojk,wbjmcwcmkdedbwkzaagcw.zuwzowxjekwqgcgwhejwuzngw gnje
Yztgoiznng,wdkxwUcpwYqgnyowqdowajhwqzuwdkxwqgweznnwazigwqzuwmywrjcwhqg
cgedcxwzrwbjmwogkxp

_QmstwRzkkp_

ZwrgnhwajjxwdkxwdnnwedoqgxwsngdkwjrwozkwrjcwhqgwrzcohwhzugwZwqdxwgigc
rgnhwojwzkwubwnzrg,wdkxwZwtkjegxwZwsjmnxwycdbwkjepw  mhwZwxzxk'hwxjwzh
ohcdzaqhwjrr,w mhwndzxwhqgwydygcwxjekwdkxwoghwhqgcgwhqzktzka--hqzktzka
qjewajjxwzhwedowdnnwhqzowqdyygkgxwoj,wdkxwqjewkgdcwZwsjugwhjw gzkawnjoh
dkxwajzkawhjwqgnnpw Dkxwegkhwjkwhqzktzkapw Dkxwajhwhjwhqzktzkawjigcwjmc
hczywxjekwhqgwczigc;wdkxwZwoggw.zuw grjcgwugwdnnwhqgwhzug:w zkwhqgwxdb
dkxwzkwhqgwkzaqh-hzug,wojughzugowujjknzaqh,wojughzugowohjcuo,wdkxweg
d-rnjdhzkawdnjka,whdntzkawdkxwozkazkawdkxwndmaqzkapw  mhwojugqjewZ
sjmnxk'hwogguwhjwohcztgwkjwyndsgowhjwqdcxgkwugwdadzkohwqzu,w mhwjknbwhqg
jhqgcwtzkxpw Z'xwoggwqzuwohdkxzkawubwedhsqwjkwhjywjrwqzo'k,w'ohgdxwjr
sdnnzkawug,wojwZwsjmnxwajwjkwonggyzka;wdkxwoggwqzuwqjewandxwqgwedoweqgk
Zwsjugw dstwjmhwjrwhqgwrja;wdkxweqgkwZwsjugwhjwqzuwdadzkwzkwhqgwoeduy,
mywhqgcgweqgcgwhqgwrgmxwedo;wdkxwomsq-nztgwhzugo;wdkxwejmnxwdnedbowsdnn
ugwqjkgb,wdkxwyghwugwdkxwxjwgigcbhqzkawqgwsjmnxwhqzktwjrwrjcwug,wdkxwqje
ajjxwqgwdnedbowedo;wdkxwdhwndohwZwohcmstwhqgwhzugwZwodigxwqzuw bwhgnnzka
hqgwugkwegwqdxwoudnn-yjfwd jdcx,wdkxwqgwedowojwacdhgrmn,wdkxwodzxwZwedo
hqgw gohwrczgkxwjnxw.zuwgigcwqdxwzkwhqgwejcnx,wdkxwhqgw_jknb_wjkgwqg'o
ajhwkje;wdkxwhqgkwZwqdyygkgxwhjwnjjtwdcjmkxwdkxwoggwhqdhwydygcp

Zhwedowdwsnjogwyndsgpw Zwhjjtwzhwmy,wdkxwqgnxwzhwzkwubwqdkxpw Zwedo
d-hcgu nzka,w gsdmogwZ'xwajhwhjwxgszxg,wrjcgigc,w ghezfhwhejwhqzkao,wdkx
Zwtkjegxwzhpw Zwohmxzgxwdwuzkmhg,wojchwjrwqjnxzkawubw cgdhq,wdkxwhqgk
odbowhjwubognr:

“Dnnwczaqh,whqgk,wZ'nnw_aj_whjwqgnn”--dkxwhjcgwzhwmyp

Zhwedowdermnwhqjmaqhowdkxwdermnwejcxo,w mhwhqgbwedowodzxpw DkxwZwngh
hqguwohdbwodzx;wdkxwkgigcwhqjmaqhwkjwujcgwd jmhwcgrjcuzkapw Zwoqjigxwhqg
eqjngwhqzkawjmhwjrwubwqgdx,wdkxwodzxwZwejmnxwhdtgwmywezstgxkgoowdadzk,
eqzsqwedowzkwubwnzkg,w gzkaw cmkawmywhjwzh,wdkxwhqgwjhqgcwedck'hpw Dkx
rjcwdwohdchgcwZwejmnxwajwhjwejctwdkxwohgdnw.zuwjmhwjrwondigcbwdadzk;
dkxwzrwZwsjmnxwhqzktwmywdkbhqzkawejcog,wZwejmnxwxjwhqdh,whjj;w gsdmogwdo
njkawdowZwedowzk,wdkxwzkwrjcwajjx,wZwuzaqhwdowegnnwajwhqgweqjngwqjap

HqgkwZwoghwhjwhqzktzkawjigcwqjewhjwaghwdhwzh,wdkxwhmckgxwjigcwojug
sjkozxgcd ngwudkbwedbowzkwubwuzkx;wdkxwdhwndohwrzfgxwmywdwyndkwhqdh
omzhgxwugpw OjwhqgkwZwhjjtwhqgw gdczkaowjrwdwejjxbwzondkxwhqdhwedowxjek
hqgwczigcwdwyzgsg,wdkxwdowojjkwdowzhwedowrdzcnbwxdctwZwscgyhwjmhwezhqwub
cdrhwdkxwegkhwrjcwzh,wdkxwqzxwzhwhqgcg,wdkxwhqgkwhmckgxwzkpw Zwongyhwhqg
kzaqhwhqcjmaq,wdkxwajhwmyw grjcgwzhwedownzaqh,wdkxwqdxwubw cgdtrdoh,
dkxwymhwjkwubwohjcgwsnjhqgo,wdkxwhzgxwmywojugwjhqgcowdkxwjkgwhqzkawjc
dkjhqgcwzkwdw mkxng,wdkxwhjjtwhqgwsdkjgwdkxwsngdcgxwrjcwoqjcgpw Zwndkxgx
 gnjeweqgcgwZw.mxagxwedowYqgnyo'owyndsg,wdkxwqzxwubw mkxngwzkwhqgwejjxo,
dkxwhqgkwrznngxwmywhqgwsdkjgwezhqwedhgc,wdkxwnjdxgxwcjstowzkhjwqgcwdkx
omktwqgcweqgcgwZwsjmnxwrzkxwqgcwdadzkweqgkwZwedkhgxwqgc,wd jmhwdwvmdchgc
jrwdwuzngw gnjewdwnzhhngwohgduwodeuznnwhqdhwedowjkwhqgw dktp

HqgkwZwohcmstwmywhqgwcjdx,wdkxweqgkwZwydoogxwhqgwuznnwZwoggwdwozakwjk
zh,w“Yqgnyo'owOdeuznn,”wdkxweqgkwZwsjugwhjwhqgwrdcu-qjmogo,whejwjc
hqcggwqmkxcgxwbdcxowrmchqgcwdnjka,wZwtgyhwubwgbgowyggngx,w mhwxzxk'h
oggwkj jxbwdcjmkx,whqjmaqwzhwedowajjxwxdbnzaqhwkjepw  mhwZwxzxk'hwuzkx,
 gsdmogwZwxzxk'hwedkhwhjwoggwkj jxbw.mohwbgh--Zwjknbwedkhgxwhjwaghwhqg
ndbwjrwhqgwndkxpwDssjcxzkawhjwubwyndk,wZwedowajzkawhjwhmckwmywhqgcgwrcju
hqgwiznndag,wkjhwrcjuw gnjepw OjwZw.mohwhjjtwdwnjjt,wdkxwoqjigxwdnjka,
ohcdzaqhwrjcwhjekpwEgnn,whqgwigcbwrzcohwudkwZwoggweqgkwZwajhwhqgcgwedo
hqgwxmtgpw Qgwedowohzstzkawmywdw znnwrjcwhqgwCjbdnwKjkgomsq--hqcgg-kzaqh
ygcrjcudksg--nztgwhqdhwjhqgcwhzugpw Hqgbwqdxwhqgwsqggt,whqguwrcdmxo!w Z
edowczaqhwjkwqzuw grjcgwZwsjmnxwoqzctpw Qgwnjjtgxwdohjkzoqgx,wdkxwodbo:

“Qgn-_nj_!w Eqgcg'xw_bjm_wsjugwrcju?”w Hqgkwqgwodbo,wtzkxwjrwandxwdkx
gdagc,w“Eqgcg'owhqgwcdrh?--ajhwqgcwzkwdwajjxwyndsg?”

Zwodbo:

“Eqb,whqdh'ow.mohweqdhwZwedowajzkawhjwdotwbjmcwacdsgp”

Hqgkwqgwxzxk'hwnjjtwojw.jbrmn,wdkxwodbo:

“Eqdhwedowbjmcwzxgdwrjcwdotzkaw_ug_?”wqgwodbop

“Egnn,”wZwodbo,w“eqgkwZwoggwhqgwtzkawzkwhqdhwxjaagcbwbgohgcxdbwZwodbo
hjwubognr,wegwsdk'hwaghwqzuwqjugwrjcwqjmco,whznnwqg'owoj gcgc;wojwZwegkh
d-njdrzkawdcjmkxwhjekwhjwymhwzkwhqgwhzugwdkxwedzhpw Dwudkwmywdkxwjrrgcgx
ugwhgkwsgkhowhjwqgnywqzuwymnnwdwotzrrwjigcwhqgwczigcwdkxw dstwhjwrghsq
dwoqggy,wdkxwojwZwegkhwdnjka;w mhweqgkwegwedowxcdaazkawqzuwhjwhqgw jdh,
dkxwhqgwudkwngrhwugwd-qjnhwjrwhqgwcjygwdkxwegkhw gqzkxwqzuwhjwoqjigwqzu
dnjka,wqgwedowhjjwohcjkawrjcwugwdkxw.gctgxwnjjogwdkxwcmk,wdkxwegwdrhgc
qzupw Egwxzxk'hwqdigwkjwxja,wdkxwojwegwqdxwhjwsqdogwqzuwdnnwjigcwhqg
sjmkhcbwhznnwegwhzcgxwqzuwjmhpw Egwkgigcwajhwqzuwhznnwxdct;whqgkweg
rghsqgxwqzuwjigc,wdkxwZwohdchgxwxjekwrjcwhqgwcdrhpw EqgkwZwajhwhqgcgwdkx
oggwzhwedowajkg,wZwodbowhjwubognr,w'Hqgb'igwajhwzkhjwhcjm ngwdkxwqdxwhj
ngdig;wdkxwhqgb'igwhjjtwubwkzaagc,weqzsqwzowhqgwjknbwkzaagcwZ'igwajhwzk
hqgwejcnx,wdkxwkjewZ'uwzkwdwohcdkagwsjmkhcb,wdkxwdzk'hwajhwkjwycjygchb
kjwujcg,wkjcwkjhqzka,wdkxwkjwedbwhjwudtgwubwnzizka;'wojwZwoghwxjekwdkx
sczgxpw Zwongyhwzkwhqgwejjxowdnnwkzaqhpw  mhweqdhw_xzx_w gsjugwjrwhqg
cdrh,whqgk?--dkxw.zu--yjjcw.zu!”

“ ndugxwzrwZwtkje--hqdhwzo,weqdh'ow gsjugwjrwhqgwcdrhpw Hqdhwjnxwrjjnwqdx
udxgwdwhcdxgwdkxwajhwrjchbwxjnndco,wdkxweqgkwegwrjmkxwqzuwzkwhqgwxjaagcb
hqgwnjdrgcowqdxwudhsqgxwqdnr-xjnndcowezhqwqzuwdkxwajhwgigcbwsgkhw mh
eqdhwqg'xwoygkhwrjcweqzotb;wdkxweqgkwZwajhwqzuwqjugwndhgwndohwkzaqhwdkx
rjmkxwhqgwcdrhwajkg,wegwodzx,w'Hqdhwnzhhngwcdosdnwqdowohjngwjmcwcdrhwdkx
oqjjtwmo,wdkxwcmkwjrrwxjekwhqgwczigcp'”

“Zwejmnxk'hwoqdtgwubw_kzaagc_,wejmnxwZ?--hqgwjknbwkzaagcwZwqdxwzkwhqg
ejcnx,wdkxwhqgwjknbwycjygchbp”

“Egwkgigcwhqjmaqhwjrwhqdhpw Rdshwzo,wZwcgstjkweg'xwsjugwhjwsjkozxgcwqzu
_jmc_wkzaagc;wbgo,wegwxzxwsjkozxgcwqzuwoj--ajjxkgoowtkjeowegwqdxwhcjm ng
gkjmaqwrjcwqzupw Ojweqgkwegwoggwhqgwcdrhwedowajkgwdkxwegwrndhw cjtg,
hqgcgwedck'hwdkbhqzkawrjcwzhw mhwhjwhcbwhqgwCjbdnwKjkgomsqwdkjhqgc
oqdtgpwDkxwZ'igwygaagxwdnjkawgigcwozksg,wxcbwdowdwyjexgc-qjckpw Eqgcg'o
hqdhwhgkwsgkho?wAzigwzhwqgcgp”

Zwqdxwsjkozxgcd ngwujkgb,wojwZwazigwqzuwhgkwsgkho,w mhw gaagxwqzuwhj
oygkxwzhwrjcwojughqzkawhjwgdh,wdkxwazigwugwojug,w gsdmogwzhwedowdnnwhqg
ujkgbwZwqdx,wdkxwZwqdxk'hwqdxwkjhqzkawhjwgdhwozksgwbgohgcxdbpw Qgwkgigc
odzxwkjhqzkapw Hqgwkgfhwuzkmhgwqgweqzcnowjkwugwdkxwodbo:

“Xjwbjmwcgstjkwhqdhwkzaagcwejmnxw njewjkwmo?w Eg'xwotzkwqzuwzrwqgwxjkg
hqdh!”

“Qjewsdkwqgw nje?w Qdzk'hwqgwcmkwjrr?”

“Kj!w Hqdhwjnxwrjjnwojnxwqzu,wdkxwkgigcwxzizxgxwezhqwug,wdkxwhqgwujkgb'o
ajkgp”

“_Ojnx_wqzu?”w Zwodbo,wdkxw gamkwhjwscb;w“eqb,wqgwedow_ub_wkzaagc,wdkx
hqdhwedowubwujkgbpw Eqgcgwzowqg?--Zwedkhwubwkzaagcp”

“Egnn,wbjmwsdk'hw_agh_wbjmcwkzaagc,whqdh'owdnn--ojwxcbwmywbjmc
 nm  gczkapwNjjtbwqgcg--xjwbjmwhqzktw_bjm'x_wigkhmcgwhjw njewjkwmo?
  ndugxwzrwZwhqzktwZ'xwhcmohwbjmpw Eqb,wzrwbjmw_edo_whjw njewjkwmo--”

Qgwohjyygx,w mhwZwkgigcwoggwhqgwxmtgwnjjtwojwmanbwjmhwjrwqzowgbgo
 grjcgpwZwegkhwjkwd-eqzuygczka,wdkxwodbo:

“Zwxjk'hwedkhwhjw njewjkwkj jxb;wdkxwZwdzk'hwajhwkjwhzugwhjw nje,wkjqjep
Zwajhwhjwhmckwjmhwdkxwrzkxwubwkzaagcp”

Qgwnjjtgxwtzkxgcw jhqgcgx,wdkxwohjjxwhqgcgwezhqwqzow znnowrnmhhgczkawjk
qzowdcu,whqzktzka,wdkxweczktnzkawmywqzowrjcgqgdxpw Dhwndohwqgwodbo:

“Z'nnwhgnnwbjmwojughqzkapw Egwajhwhjw gwqgcgwhqcggwxdbopw Zrwbjm'nn
ycjuzogwbjmwejk'hw nje,wdkxwejk'hwnghwhqgwkzaagcw nje,wZ'nnwhgnnwbjm
eqgcgwhjwrzkxwqzup”

OjwZwycjuzogx,wdkxwqgwodbo:

“Dwrdcugcw bwhqgwkdugwjrwOzndowYq--”wdkxwhqgkwqgwohjyygxpw Bjmwogg,wqg
ohdchgxwhjwhgnnwugwhqgwhcmhq;w mhweqgkwqgwohjyygxwhqdhwedb,wdkxw gamkwhj
ohmxbwdkxwhqzktwdadzk,wZwcgstjkgxwqgwedowsqdkazkawqzowuzkxpw Dkxwojwqg
edopwQgwejmnxk'hwhcmohwug;wqgwedkhgxwhjwudtgwomcgwjrwqdizkawugwjmhwjr
hqgwedbwhqgweqjngwhqcggwxdbopw Ojwycghhbwojjkwqgwodbo:

“Hqgwudkwhqdhw jmaqhwqzuwzowkdugxwD cduwRjohgc--D cduwApwRjohgc--dkxwqg
nzigowrjchbwuzngw dstwqgcgwzkwhqgwsjmkhcb,wjkwhqgwcjdxwhjwNdrdbghhgp”

“Dnnwczaqh,”wZwodbo,w“Zwsdkwedntwzhwzkwhqcggwxdbopw DkxwZ'nnwohdchwhqzo
igcbwdrhgckjjkp”

“Kjwbjmwejkh,wbjm'nnwohdchw_kje_;wdkxwxjk'hwbjmwnjogwdkbwhzugwd jmhwzh,
kgzhqgc,wkjcwxjwdkbwad  nzkaw bwhqgwedbpw .mohwtggywdwhzaqhwhjkamgwzk
bjmcwqgdxwdkxwujigwczaqhwdnjka,wdkxwhqgkwbjmwejk'hwaghwzkhjwhcjm ngwezhq
_mo_,wx'bgwqgdc?”

HqdhwedowhqgwjcxgcwZwedkhgx,wdkxwhqdhwedowhqgwjkgwZwyndbgxwrjcpw Z
edkhgxwhjw gwngrhwrcggwhjwejctwubwyndkop

“Ojwsngdcwjmh,”wqgwodbo;w“dkxwbjmwsdkwhgnnwUcpwRjohgcweqdhgigcwbjmwedkh
hjpwUdb gwbjmwsdkwaghwqzuwhjw gnzgigwhqdhw.zuw_zo_wbjmcwkzaagc--ojug
zxzjhowxjk'hwcgvmzcgwxjsmugkho--ngdohedbowZ'igwqgdcxwhqgcg'owomsqwxjek
Ojmhqwqgcgpw Dkxweqgkwbjmwhgnnwqzuwhqgwqdkx znnwdkxwhqgwcgedcx'ow jamo,
udb gwqg'nnw gnzgigwbjmweqgkwbjmwgfyndzkwhjwqzuweqdhwhqgwzxgdwedowrjc
aghhzkaw'guwjmhpw Ajw'njkawkje,wdkxwhgnnwqzuwdkbhqzkawbjmwedkhwhj;w mh
uzkxwbjmwxjk'hwejctwbjmcw.dewdkbw_ gheggk_wqgcgwdkxwhqgcgp”

OjwZwngrh,wdkxwohcmstwrjcwhqgw dstwsjmkhcbpw Zwxzxk'hwnjjtwdcjmkx,w mhwZ
tzkxgcwrgnhwnztgwqgwedowedhsqzkawugpw  mhwZwtkjegxwZwsjmnxwhzcgwqzuwjmh
dhwhqdhpw Zwegkhwohcdzaqhwjmhwzkwhqgwsjmkhcbwdowumsqwdowdwuzngw grjcg
Zwohjyygx;whqgkwZwxjm ngxw dstwhqcjmaqwhqgwejjxowhjedcxowYqgnyo'pw Z
cgstjkgxwZw ghhgcwohdchwzkwjkwubwyndkwohcdzaqhwjrrwezhqjmhwrjjnzka
dcjmkx,w gsdmogwZwedkhgxwhjwohjyw.zu'owujmhqwhznnwhqgogwrgnnjeowsjmnx
aghwdedbpw Zwxzxk'hwedkhwkjwhcjm ngwezhqwhqgzcwtzkxpw Z'xwoggkwdnnwZ
edkhgxwhjwjrwhqgu,wdkxwedkhgxwhjwaghwgkhzcgnbwoqmhwjrwhqgup




SQDYHGCwFFFZZp

EQGKwZwajhwhqgcgwzhwedowdnnwohznnwdkxwOmkxdb-nztg,wdkxwqjhwdkxwomkoqzkb;
hqgwqdkxowedowajkgwhjwhqgwrzgnxo;wdkxwhqgcgwedowhqguwtzkxwjrwrdzkh
xcjkzkaowjrw maowdkxwrnzgowzkwhqgwdzcwhqdhwudtgowzhwogguwojwnjkgojugwdkx
nztgwgigcb jxb'owxgdxwdkxwajkg;wdkxwzrwdw cgglgwrdkowdnjkawdkxwvmzigco
hqgwngdigowzhwudtgowbjmwrggnwujmckrmn,w gsdmogwbjmwrggnwnztgwzh'o
oyzczhoweqzoygczka--oyzczhowhqdh'ow ggkwxgdxwgigcwojwudkbwbgdco--dkxwbjm
dnedbowhqzktwhqgb'cgwhdntzkawd jmhw_bjm_pw Dowdwagkgcdnwhqzkawzhwudtgowd
 jxbwezoqw_qg_wedowxgdx,whjj,wdkxwxjkgwezhqwzhwdnnp

Yqgnyo'wedowjkgwjrwhqgogwnzhhngwjkg-qjcogwsjhhjkwyndkhdhzjko,wdkxwhqgb
dnnwnjjtwdnztgpw Dwcdznwrgksgwcjmkxwdwhej-dscgwbdcx;wdwohzngwudxgwjmh
jrwnjaowodegxwjrrwdkxwmy-gkxgxwzkwohgyo,wnztgw dccgnowjrwdwxzrrgcgkh
ngkahq,whjwsnzu wjigcwhqgwrgksgwezhq,wdkxwrjcwhqgwejugkwhjwohdkxwjkweqgk
hqgbwdcgwajzkawhjw.muywjkwhjwdwqjcog;wojugwozstnbwacdoo-ydhsqgowzkwhqg
 zawbdcx,w mhwujohnbwzhwedow dcgwdkxwoujjhq,wnztgwdkwjnxwqdhwezhqwhqg
kdywcm  gxwjrr;w zawxjm ngwnja-qjmogwrjcwhqgweqzhgwrjnto--qgegxwnjao,
ezhqwhqgwsqzktowohjyygxwmywezhqwumxwjcwujchdc,wdkxwhqgogwumx-ohczygo
 ggkweqzhgedoqgxwojugwhzugwjcwdkjhqgc;wcjmkx-njawtzhsqgk,wezhqwdw za
 cjdx,wjygkw mhwcjjrgxwydoodagw.jzkzkawzhwhjwhqgwqjmog;wnjawoujtg-qjmog
 dstwjrwhqgwtzhsqgk;whqcggwnzhhngwnjawkzaagc-sd zkowzkwdwcjewh'jhqgc
ozxgwhqgwoujtg-qjmog;wjkgwnzhhngwqmhwdnnw bwzhognrwdedbwxjekwdadzkoh
hqgw dstwrgksg,wdkxwojugwjmh mznxzkaowxjekwdwyzgsgwhqgwjhqgcwozxg;
doq-qjyygcwdkxw zawtghhngwhjw zngwojdywzkw bwhqgwnzhhngwqmh;w gksqw b
hqgwtzhsqgkwxjjc,wezhqw mstghwjrwedhgcwdkxwdwajmcx;wqjmkxwdonggywhqgcg
zkwhqgwomk;wujcgwqjmkxowdonggywcjmkxwd jmh;wd jmhwhqcggwoqdxgwhcggowdedb
jrrwzkwdwsjckgc;wojugwsmccdkhw moqgowdkxwajjog gccbw moqgowzkwjkgwyndsg
 bwhqgwrgksg;wjmhozxgwjrwhqgwrgksgwdwadcxgkwdkxwdwedhgcugnjkwydhsq;whqgk
hqgwsjhhjkwrzgnxow gazko,wdkxwdrhgcwhqgwrzgnxowhqgwejjxop

Zwegkhwdcjmkxwdkxwsnmu wjigcwhqgw dstwohzngw bwhqgwdoq-qjyygc,wdkx
ohdchgxwrjcwhqgwtzhsqgkpw EqgkwZwajhwdwnzhhngwedbowZwqgdcxwhqgwxzuwqmu
jrwdwoyzkkzka-eqggnwedznzkawdnjkawmywdkxwozktzkawdnjkawxjekwdadzk;
dkxwhqgkwZwtkjegxwrjcwsgchdzkwZwezoqgxwZwedowxgdx--rjcwhqdhw_zo_whqg
njkgojugohwojmkxwzkwhqgweqjngwejcnxp

Zwegkhwczaqhwdnjka,wkjhwrzfzkawmywdkbwydchzsmndcwyndk,w mhw.mohwhcmohzka
hjwYcjizxgksgwhjwymhwhqgwczaqhwejcxowzkwubwujmhqweqgkwhqgwhzugwsjug;wrjc
Z'xwkjhzsgxwhqdhwYcjizxgksgwdnedbowxzxwymhwhqgwczaqhwejcxowzkwubwujmhq
zrwZwngrhwzhwdnjkgp

EqgkwZwajhwqdnr-edb,wrzcohwjkgwqjmkxwdkxwhqgkwdkjhqgcwajhwmywdkxwegkh
rjcwug,wdkxwjrwsjmcogwZwohjyygxwdkxwrdsgxwhqgu,wdkxwtgyhwohznnpw Dkx
omsqwdkjhqgcwyjeejewdowhqgbwudxg!w ZkwdwvmdchgcwjrwdwuzkmhgwZwedowdwtzkx
jrwdwqm wjrwdweqggn,wdowbjmwudbwodb--oyjtgowudxgwjmhwjrwxjao--szcsngwjr
rzrhggkwjrwhqguwydstgxwhjaghqgcwdcjmkxwug,wezhqwhqgzcwkgstowdkxwkjogo
ohcghsqgxwmywhjedcxowug,wd- dctzkawdkxwqjenzka;wdkxwujcgwd-sjuzka;wbjm
sjmnxwoggwhqguwodznzkawjigcwrgksgowdkxwdcjmkxwsjckgcowrcjuwgigcbeqgcgop

Dwkzaagcwejudkwsjugwhgdczkawjmhwjrwhqgwtzhsqgkwezhqwdwcjnnzka-yzkwzkwqgc
qdkx,wozkazkawjmh,w“ gajkgw_bjm_wHzag!wbjmwOyjh!w gajkgwodq!”wdkxwoqg
rghsqgxwrzcohwjkgwdkxwhqgkwdkjhqgcwjrwhqguwdwsnzywdkxwogkhwhqguwqjenzka,
dkxwhqgkwhqgwcgohwrjnnjegx;wdkxwhqgwkgfhwogsjkxwqdnrwjrwhqguwsjugw dst,
edaazkawhqgzcwhdznowdcjmkxwug,wdkxwudtzkawrczgkxowezhqwugpw Hqgcgwdzk'h
kjwqdcuwzkwdwqjmkx,wkjqjep

Dkxw gqzkxwhqgwejudkwsjugowdwnzhhngwkzaagcwazcnwdkxwhejwnzhhngwkzaagc
 jbowezhqjmhwdkbhqzkawjkw mhwhje-nzkgkwoqzcho,wdkxwhqgbwqmkawjkwhjwhqgzc
ujhqgc'owajek,wdkxwyggygxwjmhwrcjuw gqzkxwqgcwdhwug,w doqrmn,whqgwedb
hqgbwdnedbowxjpw Dkxwqgcgwsjugowhqgweqzhgwejudkwcmkkzkawrcjuwhqgwqjmog,
d jmhwrjchb-rzigwjcwrzrhbwbgdcwjnx,w dcgqgdxgx,wdkxwqgcwoyzkkzka-ohzst
zkwqgcwqdkx;wdkxw gqzkxwqgcwsjugowqgcwnzhhngweqzhgwsqznxcgk,wdshzkawhqg
odugwedbwhqgwnzhhngwkzaagcowedowxjzkapw Oqgwedowouznzkawdnnwjigcwojwoqg
sjmnxwqdcxnbwohdkx--dkxwodbo:

“Zh'ow_bjm_,wdhwndoh!--_dzk'h_wzh?”

Zwjmhwezhqwdw“Bgo'u”w grjcgwZwhqjmaqhp

Oqgwacd  gxwugwdkxwqmaagxwugwhzaqh;wdkxwhqgkwaczyygxwugw bw jhqwqdkxo
dkxwoqjjtwdkxwoqjjt;wdkxwhqgwhgdcowsjugwzkwqgcwgbgo,wdkxwcmkwxjekwjigc;
dkxwoqgwsjmnxk'hwogguwhjwqmawdkxwoqdtgwgkjmaq,wdkxwtgyhwodbzka,w“Bjm
xjk'hwnjjtwdowumsqwnztgwbjmcwujhqgcwdowZwcgstjkgxwbjmwejmnx;w mhwnde
odtgo,wZwxjk'hwsdcgwrjcwhqdh,wZ'uwojwandxwhjwoggwbjm!w Xgdc,wxgdc,wzh
xjgowogguwnztgwZwsjmnxwgdhwbjmwmy!w Sqznxcgk,wzh'owbjmcwsjmozkwHju!--hgnn
qzuwqjexbp”

 mhwhqgbwxmstgxwhqgzcwqgdxo,wdkxwymhwhqgzcwrzkagcowzkwhqgzcwujmhqo,wdkx
qzxw gqzkxwqgcpw Ojwoqgwcmkwjk:

“Nzlg,wqmccbwmywdkxwaghwqzuwdwqjhw cgdtrdohwczaqhwdedb--jcwxzxwbjmwagh
bjmcw cgdtrdohwjkwhqgw jdh?”

ZwodzxwZwqdxwajhwzhwjkwhqgw jdhpw Ojwhqgkwoqgwohdchgxwrjcwhqgwqjmog,
ngdxzkawugw bwhqgwqdkx,wdkxwhqgwsqznxcgkwhdaazkawdrhgcpw Eqgkwegwajh
hqgcgwoqgwoghwugwxjekwzkwdwoynzh- jhhjugxwsqdzc,wdkxwoghwqgcognrwxjekwjk
dwnzhhngwnjewohjjnwzkwrcjkhwjrwug,wqjnxzkaw jhqwjrwubwqdkxo,wdkxwodbo:

“KjewZwsdkwqdigwdw_ajjx_wnjjtwdhwbjm;wdkx,wndeo-d-ug,wZ'igw ggkwqmkacb
rjcwzhwdwudkbwdkxwdwudkbwdwhzug,wdnnwhqgogwnjkawbgdco,wdkxwzh'owsjug
dhwndoh!wEgw ggkwgfygshzkawbjmwdwsjmyngwjrwxdbowdkxwujcgpw Eqdhwtgy'
bjm?-- jdhwaghwdacjmkx?”

“Bgo'u--oqg--”

“Xjk'hwodbwbgo'u--odbwDmkhwOdnnbpw Eqgcg'xwoqgwaghwdacjmkx?”

Zwxzxk'hwczaqhnbwtkjeweqdhwhjwodb,w gsdmogwZwxzxk'hwtkjeweqghqgcwhqg
 jdhwejmnxw gwsjuzkawmywhqgwczigcwjcwxjekpw  mhwZwajwdwajjxwxgdnwjk
zkohzksh;wdkxwubwzkohzkshwodzxwoqgwejmnxw gwsjuzkawmy--rcjuwxjekwhjedcxo
JcngdkopwHqdhwxzxk'hwqgnywugwumsq,whqjmaq;wrjcwZwxzxk'hwtkjewhqgwkdugo
jrw dcowxjekwhqdhwedbpw ZwoggwZ'xwajhwhjwzkigkhwdw dc,wjcwrjcaghwhqg
kdugwjrwhqgwjkgwegwajhwdacjmkxwjk--jc--KjewZwohcmstwdkwzxgd,wdkxwrghsqgx
zhwjmh:

“Zhwedck'hwhqgwacjmkxzka--hqdhwxzxk'hwtggywmow dstw mhwdwnzhhngpw Eg
 njegxwjmhwdwsbnzkxgc-qgdxp”

“Ajjxwacdszjmo!wdkb jxbwqmch?”

“Kj'upw Tznngxwdwkzaagcp”

“Egnn,wzh'ownmstb;w gsdmogwojughzugowygjyngwxjwaghwqmchpw Hejwbgdcowdaj
ndohwSqczohudowbjmcwmksngwOzndowedowsjuzkawmywrcjuwKgecngdkowjkwhqgwjnx
NdnnbwCjjt,wdkxwoqgw njegxwjmhwdwsbnzkxgc-qgdxwdkxwsczyyngxwdwudkpw Dkx
Zwhqzktwqgwxzgxwdrhgcedcxopw Qgwedowdw dyhzohpw BjmcwmksngwOzndowtkjegx
dwrduznbwzkw dhjkwCjmagwhqdhwtkjegxwqzowygjyngwigcbwegnnpw Bgo,wZ
cgugu gcwkje,wqgw_xzx_wxzgpw Ujchzrzsdhzjkwoghwzk,wdkxwhqgbwqdxwhj
duymhdhgwqzupw mhwzhwxzxk'hwodigwqzupw Bgo,wzhwedowujchzrzsdhzjk--hqdh
edowzhpw Qgwhmckgxw nmgwdnnwjigc,wdkxwxzgxwzkwhqgwqjygwjrwdwanjczjmo
cgomccgshzjkpwHqgbwodbwqgwedowdwozaqhwhjwnjjtwdhpw Bjmcwmksng'ow ggkwmy
hjwhqgwhjekwgigcbwxdbwhjwrghsqwbjmpwDkxwqg'owajkgwdadzk,wkjhwujcg'kwdk
qjmcwdaj;wqg'nnw gw dstwdkbwuzkmhgwkjepwBjmwumohwdwughwqzuwjkwhqgwcjdx,
xzxk'hwbjm?--jnxzoqwudk,wezhqwd--”

“Kj,wZwxzxk'hwoggwkj jxb,wDmkhwOdnnbpw Hqgw jdhwndkxgxw.mohwdhwxdbnzaqh,
dkxwZwngrhwubw daadagwjkwhqgweqdcr- jdhwdkxwegkhwnjjtzkawdcjmkxwhqgwhjek
dkxwjmhwdwyzgsgwzkwhqgwsjmkhcb,whjwymhwzkwhqgwhzugwdkxwkjhwaghwqgcgwhjj
ojjk;wdkxwojwZwsjugwxjekwhqgw dstwedbp”

“Eqj'xwbjmwazigwhqgw daadagwhj?”

“Kj jxbp”

“Eqb,wsqznx,wzhw'nnw gwohjng!”

“KjhweqgcgwZwqzxwzhwZwcgstjkwzhwejk'h,”wZwodbop

“Qje'xwbjmwaghwbjmcw cgdtrdohwojwgdcnbwjkwhqgw jdh?”

Zhwedowtzkxgcwhqzkwzsg,w mhwZwodbo:

“Hqgwsdyhdzkwoggwugwohdkxzkawdcjmkx,wdkxwhjnxwugwZw ghhgcwqdigwojughqzka
hjwgdhw grjcgwZwegkhwdoqjcg;wojwqgwhjjtwugwzkwhqgwhgfdowhjwhqgwjrrzsgco'
nmksq,wdkxwazigwugwdnnwZwedkhgxp”

ZwedowaghhzkawojwmkgdobwZwsjmnxk'hwnzohgkwajjxpw Zwqdxwubwuzkxwjkwhqg
sqznxcgkwdnnwhqgwhzug;wZwedkhgxwhjwaghwhqguwjmhwhjwjkgwozxgwdkxwymuy
hqguwdwnzhhng,wdkxwrzkxwjmhweqjwZwedopw  mhwZwsjmnxk'hwaghwkjwoqje,wUcop
Yqgnyowtgyhwzhwmywdkxwcmkwjkwojpw Ycghhbwojjkwoqgwudxgwhqgwsjnxwsqznno
ohcgdtwdnnwxjekwubw dst,w gsdmogwoqgwodbo:

“ mhwqgcgweg'cgwd-cmkkzkawjkwhqzowedb,wdkxwbjmwqdzk'hwhjnxwugwdwejcx
d jmhwOzo,wkjcwdkbwjrwhqgupw KjewZ'nnwcgohwubwejctowdwnzhhng,wdkxwbjm
ohdchwmywbjmck;w.mohwhgnnwugw_gigcbhqzka_--hgnnwugwdnnwd jmhw'uwdnnwgigcb
jkgwjrw'u;wdkxwqjewhqgbwdcg,wdkxweqdhwhqgb'cgwxjzka,wdkxweqdhwhqgbwhjnx
bjmwhjwhgnnwug;wdkxwgigcbwndohwhqzkawbjmwsdkwhqzktwjrp”

Egnn,wZwoggwZwedowmywdwohmuy--dkxwmywzhwajjxpw Ycjizxgksgwqdxwohjjxw b
ugwhqzowrmcwdnnwczaqh,w mhwZwedowqdcxwdkxwhzaqhwdacjmkxwkjepw Zwoggwzh
edck'hwdw zhwjrwmogwhjwhcbwhjwajwdqgdx--Z'xwajhwhjwhqcjewmywubwqdkxpw Oj
Zwodbowhjwubognr,wqgcg'owdkjhqgcwyndsgweqgcgwZwajhwhjwcgotwhqgwhcmhqp
 Zwjygkgxwubwujmhqwhjw gazk;w mhwoqgwacd  gxwugwdkxwqmohngxwugwzkw gqzkx
hqgw gx,wdkxwodbo:

“Qgcgwqgwsjugo!w Ohzstwbjmcwqgdxwxjekwnjegc--hqgcg,whqdh'nnwxj;wbjmwsdk'h
 gwoggkwkjepw Xjk'hwbjmwnghwjkwbjm'cgwqgcgpw Z'nnwyndbwdw.jtgwjkwqzup
Sqznxcgk,wxjk'hwbjmwodbwdwejcxp”

ZwoggwZwedowzkwdwrzfwkjepw  mhwzhwedck'hwkjwmogwhjwejccb;whqgcgwedck'h
kjhqzkawhjwxjw mhw.mohwqjnxwohznn,wdkxwhcbwdkxw gwcgdxbwhjwohdkxwrcju
mkxgcweqgkwhqgwnzaqhkzkawohcmstp

Zwqdxw.mohwjkgwnzhhngwanzuyogwjrwhqgwjnxwagkhngudkweqgkwqgwsjugwzk;whqgk
hqgw gxwqzxwqzupw UcopwYqgnyowoqgw.muyowrjcwqzu,wdkxwodbo:

“Qdowqgwsjug?”

“Kj,”wodbowqgcwqmo dkxp

“Ajjx-_kgoo_wacdszjmo!”woqgwodbo,w“eqdhwzkwhqgwedcnxwsdkwqdigw gsjugwjr
qzu?”

“Zwsdk'hwzudazkg,”wodbowhqgwjnxwagkhngudk;w“dkxwZwumohwodbwzhwudtgowug
xcgdxrmnwmkgdobp”

“Mkgdob!”woqgwodbo;w“Z'uwcgdxbwhjwajwxzohcdshgx!w Qgw_umoh_wdwsjug;wdkx
bjm'igwuzoogxwqzuwdnjkawhqgwcjdxpw Zw_tkje_wzh'owoj--ojughqzkawhgnnowug
ojp”

“Eqb,wOdnnb,wZw_sjmnxk'h_wuzoowqzuwdnjkawhqgwcjdx--_bjm_wtkjewhqdhp”

“ mhwjq,wxgdc,wxgdc,weqdhw_eznn_wOzowodb!w Qgwumohwdwsjug!w Bjmwumohwd
uzoogxwqzupw Qg--”

“Jq,wxjk'hwxzohcgoowugwdkbwujcg'kwZ'uwdncgdxbwxzohcgoogxpw Zwxjk'hwtkje
eqdhwzkwhqgwejcnxwhjwudtgwjrwzhpw Z'uwdhwubwezh'owgkx,wdkxwZwxjk'hwuzkx
dstkjengxazkaw'hwZ'uwczaqhwxjekwosdcgxpw  mhwhqgcg'owkjwqjygwhqdhwqg'o
sjug;wrjcwqgw_sjmnxk'h_wsjugwdkxwugwuzoowqzupw Odnnb,wzh'owhgccz ng--.moh
hgccz ng--ojughqzka'owqdyygkgxwhjwhqgw jdh,womcg!”

“Eqb,wOzndo!w Njjtwbjkxgc!--mywhqgwcjdx!--dzk'hwhqdhwojug jxbwsjuzka?”

Qgwoycmkawhjwhqgwezkxjewdhwhqgwqgdxwjrwhqgw gx,wdkxwhqdhwazigwUcop
Yqgnyowhqgwsqdksgwoqgwedkhgxpw Oqgwohjjygxwxjekwvmzstwdhwhqgwrjjhwjrwhqg
 gxwdkxwazigwugwdwymnn,wdkxwjmhwZwsjug;wdkxweqgkwqgwhmckgxw dstwrcjuwhqg
ezkxjewhqgcgwoqgwohjjx,wd- gduzkawdkxwd-ouznzkawnztgwdwqjmogwdrzcg,wdkx
Zwohdkxzkawycghhbwuggtwdkxwoegdhbwdnjkaozxgpw Hqgwjnxwagkhngudkwohdcgx,
dkxwodbo:

“Eqb,weqj'owhqdh?”

“Eqjwxjwbjmwcgstjkw'hwzo?”

“Zwqdzk'hwkjwzxgdpw Eqjw_zo_wzh?”

“Zh'ow_HjuwOdebgc!_”

 bw.zkao,wZwujohwonmuygxwhqcjmaqwhqgwrnjjc!w  mhwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwhzugwhj
oedywtkzigo;whqgwjnxwudkwacd  gxwugw bwhqgwqdkxwdkxwoqjjt,wdkxwtgyhwjk
oqdtzka;wdkxwdnnwhqgwhzugwqjewhqgwejudkwxzxwxdksgwdcjmkxwdkxwndmaqwdkx
scb;wdkxwhqgkwqjewhqgbw jhqwxzxwrzcgwjrrwvmgohzjkowd jmhwOzx,wdkxwUdcb,
dkxwhqgwcgohwjrwhqgwhcz gp

 mhwzrwhqgbwedow.jbrmn,wzhwedck'hwkjhqzkawhjweqdhwZwedo;wrjcwzhwedownztg
 gzkaw jckwdadzk,wZwedowojwandxwhjwrzkxwjmhweqjwZwedopw Egnn,whqgbwrcjlg
hjwugwrjcwhejwqjmco;wdkxwdhwndoh,weqgkwubwsqzkwedowojwhzcgxwzhwsjmnxk'h
qdcxnbwajwdkbwujcg,wZwqdxwhjnxwhqguwujcgwd jmhwubwrduznb--Zwugdkwhqg
Odebgcwrduznb--hqdkwgigcwqdyygkgxwhjwdkbwozfwOdebgcwrduznzgopw DkxwZ
gfyndzkgxwdnnwd jmhwqjewegw njegxwjmhwdwsbnzkxgc-qgdxwdhwhqgwujmhqwjr
EqzhgwCzigc,wdkxwzhwhjjtwmowhqcggwxdbowhjwrzfwzhpw Eqzsqwedowdnnwczaqh,
dkxwejctgxwrzcoh-cdhg;w gsdmogw_hqgb_wxzxk'hwtkjew mhweqdhwzhwejmnxwhdtg
hqcggwxdbowhjwrzfwzhpw ZrwZ'xwdwsdnngxwzhwdw jnhqgdxwzhwejmnxwdwxjkg
.mohwdowegnnp

KjewZwedowrggnzkawycghhbwsjurjchd ngwdnnwxjekwjkgwozxg,wdkxwycghhb
mksjurjchd ngwdnnwmywhqgwjhqgcpw  gzkawHjuwOdebgcwedowgdobwdkx
sjurjchd ng,wdkxwzhwohdbgxwgdobwdkxwsjurjchd ngwhznnw bwdkxw bwZwqgdcwd
ohgdu jdhwsjmaqzkawdnjkawxjekwhqgwczigcpw HqgkwZwodbowhjwubognr,wo'yjog
HjuwOdebgcwsjugowxjekwjkwhqdhw jdh?w Dkxwo'yjogwqgwohgyowzkwqgcgwdkb
uzkmhg,wdkxwozkaowjmhwubwkdugw grjcgwZwsdkwhqcjewqzuwdwezktwhjwtggy
vmzgh?

Egnn,wZwsjmnxk'hw_qdig_wzhwhqdhwedb;wzhwejmnxk'hwxjwdhwdnnpw Zwumohwaj
mywhqgwcjdxwdkxwedbndbwqzupw OjwZwhjnxwhqgwrjntowZwcgstjkgxwZwejmnxwaj
mywhjwhqgwhjekwdkxwrghsqwxjekwubw daadagpw Hqgwjnxwagkhngudkwedowrjc
ajzkawdnjkawezhqwug,w mhwZwodzxwkj,wZwsjmnxwxczigwhqgwqjcogwubognr,wdkx
Zwxcmhqgcwqgwejmnxk'hwhdtgwkjwhcjm ngwd jmhwugp




SQDYHGCwFFFZZZp

OJwZwohdchgxwrjcwhjekwzkwhqgwedajk,wdkxweqgkwZwedowqdnr-edbwZwoggwd
edajkwsjuzka,wdkxwomcgwgkjmaqwzhwedowHjuwOdebgc,wdkxwZwohjyygxwdkx
edzhgxwhznnwqgwsjugwdnjkapw Zwodbow“Qjnxwjk!”wdkxwzhwohjyygxwdnjkaozxg,
dkxwqzowujmhqwjygkgxwmywnztgwdwhcmkt,wdkxwohdbgxwoj;wdkxwqgwoednnjegx
hejwjcwhqcggwhzugownztgwdwygcojkwhqdh'owajhwdwxcbwhqcjdh,wdkxwhqgkwodbo:

“Zwqdzk'hwgigcwxjkgwbjmwkjwqdcupw Bjmwtkjewhqdhpw Oj,whqgk,weqdhwbjm
edkhwhjwsjugw dstwdkxwqd'khw_ug_wrjc?”

Zwodbo:

“Zwqdzk'hwsjugw dst--Zwqdzk'hw ggkw_ajkg_p”

Eqgkwqgwqgdcxwubwijzsgwzhwczaqhgxwqzuwmywojug,w mhwqgwedck'hwvmzhg
odhzorzgxwbghpw Qgwodbo:

“Xjk'hwbjmwyndbwkjhqzkawjkwug,w gsdmogwZwejmnxk'hwjkwbjmpw Qjkgohwzk.mk
kje,wbjmwdzk'hwdwaqjoh?”

“Qjkgohwzk.mk,wZwdzk'h,”wZwodbop

“Egnn--Z--Z--egnn,whqdhwjmaqhwhjwoghhngwzh,wjrwsjmcog;w mhwZwsdk'hwojugqje
ogguwhjwmkxgcohdkxwzhwkjwedbpw Njjtbwqgcg,wedck'hwbjmwgigcwumcxgcgxw_dh
dnn?_”

“Kjpw Zwedck'hwgigcwumcxgcgxwdhwdnn--Zwyndbgxwzhwjkwhqgupw Bjmwsjugwzk
qgcgwdkxwrggnwjrwugwzrwbjmwxjk'hw gnzgigwugp”

Ojwqgwxjkgwzh;wdkxwzhwodhzorzgxwqzu;wdkxwqgwedowhqdhwandxwhjwoggwug
dadzkwqgwxzxk'hwtkjeweqdhwhjwxjpw Dkxwqgwedkhgxwhjwtkjewdnnwd jmhwzh
czaqhwjrr,w gsdmogwzhwedowdwacdkxwdxigkhmcg,wdkxwubohgczjmo,wdkxwojwzh
qzhwqzuweqgcgwqgwnzigxpw  mhwZwodzx,wngdigwzhwdnjkgwhznnw bwdkxw b;wdkx
hjnxwqzowxczigcwhjwedzh,wdkxwegwxcjigwjrrwdwnzhhngwyzgsg,wdkxwZwhjnx
qzuwhqgwtzkxwjrwdwrzfwZwedowzk,wdkxweqdhwxzxwqgwcgstjkwegw ghhgcwxj?w Qg
odzx,wnghwqzuwdnjkgwdwuzkmhg,wdkxwxjk'hwxzohmc wqzupw Ojwqgwhqjmaqhwdkx
hqjmaqh,wdkxwycghhbwojjkwqgwodbo:

“Zh'owdnnwczaqh;wZ'igwajhwzhpw Hdtgwubwhcmktwzkwbjmcwedajk,wdkxwnghwjk
zh'owbjmc'k;wdkxwbjmwhmckw dstwdkxwrjjnwdnjkawonje,wojwdowhjwaghwhjwhqg
qjmogwd jmhwhqgwhzugwbjmwjmaqhwhj;wdkxwZ'nnwajwhjedcxowhjekwdwyzgsg,wdkx
hdtgwdwrcgoqwohdch,wdkxwaghwhqgcgwdwvmdchgcwjcwdwqdnrwdkwqjmcwdrhgcwbjm;
dkxwbjmwkggxk'hwnghwjkwhjwtkjewugwdhwrzcohp”

Zwodbo:

“Dnnwczaqh;w mhwedzhwdwuzkmhgpw Hqgcg'owjkgwujcgwhqzka--dwhqzkawhqdh
_kj jxb_wxjk'hwtkjew mhwugpw Dkxwhqdhwzo,whqgcg'owdwkzaagcwqgcgwhqdh
Z'uwd-hcbzkawhjwohgdnwjmhwjrwondigcb,wdkxwqzowkdugwzow_.zu_--jnxwUzoo
Edhojk'ow.zup”

Qgwodbo:

“Eqdh!w Eqb,w.zuwzo--”

Qgwohjyygxwdkxwegkhwhjwohmxbzkapw Zwodbo:

“Zwtkjeweqdhwbjm'nnwodbpw Bjm'nnwodbwzh'owxzchb,wnje-xjekw mozkgoo;w mh
eqdhwzrwzhwzo?w Z'uwnjewxjek;wdkxwZ'uwd-ajzkawhjwohgdnwqzu,wdkxwZwedkh
bjmwtggywumuwdkxwkjhwnghwjkpw Eznnwbjm?”

Qzowgbgwnzhwmy,wdkxwqgwodbo:

“Z'nnw_qgny_wbjmwohgdnwqzu!”

Egnn,wZwnghwajwdnnwqjnhowhqgk,wnztgwZwedowoqjhpw Zhwedowhqgwujoh
dohjkzoqzkawoyggsqwZwgigcwqgdcx--dkxwZ'uw jmkxwhjwodbwHjuwOdebgcwrgnn
sjkozxgcd ngwzkwubwgohzudhzjkpw JknbwZwsjmnxk'hw gnzgigwzhpw HjuwOdebgc
dw_kzaagc-ohgdngc!_

“Jq,woqmsto!”w Zwodbo;w“bjm'cgw.jtzkap”

“Zwdzk'hw.jtzka,wgzhqgcp”

“Egnn,whqgk,”wZwodbo,w“.jtzkawjcwkjw.jtzka,wzrwbjmwqgdcwdkbhqzkawodzx
d jmhwdwcmkdedbwkzaagc,wxjk'hwrjcaghwhjwcgugu gcwhqdhw_bjm_wxjk'hwtkje
kjhqzkawd jmhwqzu,wdkxwZwxjk'hwtkjewkjhqzkawd jmhwqzup”

Hqgkwegwhjjtwhqgwhcmktwdkxwymhwzhwzkwubwedajk,wdkxwqgwxcjigwjrrwqzo
edbwdkxwZwxcjigwuzkgpw  mhwjrwsjmcogwZwrjcajhwdnnwd jmhwxczizkawonjewjk
dssjmkhowjrw gzkawandxwdkxwrmnnwjrwhqzktzka;wojwZwajhwqjugwdwqgdywhjj
vmzstwrjcwhqdhwngkahqwjrwdwhczypw Hqgwjnxwagkhngudkwedowdhwhqgwxjjc,wdkx
qgwodbo:

“Eqb,whqzowzowejkxgcrmn!w Eqjgigcwejmnxwdwhqjmaqhwzhwedowzkwhqdhwudcg
hjwxjwzh?w Zwezoqweg'xwdwhzugxwqgcpw Dkxwoqgwqdzk'hwoegdhgxwdwqdzc--kjh
dwqdzcpwZh'owejkxgcrmnpw Eqb,wZwejmnxk'hwhdtgwdwqmkxcgxwxjnndcowrjcwhqdh
qjcogwkje--Zwejmnxk'h,wqjkgoh;wdkxwbghwZ'xwdwojnxwqgcwrjcwrzrhggkw grjcg,
dkxwhqjmaqhw'hedowdnnwoqgwedowejchqp”

Hqdh'owdnnwqgwodzxpw Qgwedowhqgwzkkjsgkhgoh,w gohwjnxwojmnwZwgigcwoggp
 mhwzhwedck'hwomcyczozka;w gsdmogwqgwedck'hwjknbw.mohwdwrdcugc,wqgwedo
dwycgdsqgc,whjj,wdkxwqdxwdwnzhhngwjkg-qjcogwnjawsqmcsqwxjekw dstwjrwhqg
yndkhdhzjk,weqzsqwqgw mznhwzhwqzuognrwdhwqzowjekwgfygkog,wrjcwdwsqmcsq
dkxwosqjjnqjmog,wdkxwkgigcwsqdcagxwkjhqzkawrjcwqzowycgdsqzka,wdkxwzhwedo
ejchqwzh,whjjpw Hqgcgwedowyngkhbwjhqgcwrdcugc-ycgdsqgcownztgwhqdh,wdkx
xjkgwhqgwodugwedb,wxjekwOjmhqp

Zkwd jmhwqdnrwdkwqjmcwHju'owedajkwxcjigwmywhjwhqgwrcjkhwohzng,wdkxwDmkh
Odnnbwoqgwoggwzhwhqcjmaqwhqgwezkxje,w gsdmogwzhwedowjknbwd jmhwrzrhb
bdcxo,wdkxwodbo:

“Eqb,whqgcg'owojug jxbwsjug!w Zwejkxgcweqjw'hzo?w Eqb,wZwxjw gnzgigwzh'o
dwohcdkagcpw .zuub”w(hqdh'owjkgwjrwhqgwsqznxcgk)w“cmkwdkxwhgnnwNzlgwhj
ymhwjkwdkjhqgcwyndhgwrjcwxzkkgcp”

Gigcb jxbwudxgwdwcmoqwrjcwhqgwrcjkhwxjjc,w gsdmog,wjrwsjmcog,wdwohcdkagc
xjk'hwsjugw_gigcb_wbgdc,wdkxwojwqgwndbowjigcwhqgwbdnngc-rgigc,wrjc
zkhgcgoh,weqgkwqgwxjgowsjugpw Hjuwedowjigcwhqgwohzngwdkxwohdchzkawrjc
hqgwqjmog;whqgwedajkwedowoyzkkzkawmywhqgwcjdxwrjcwhqgwiznndag,wdkxweg
edowdnnw mksqgxwzkwhqgwrcjkhwxjjcpw Hjuwqdxwqzowohjcgwsnjhqgowjk,wdkxwdk
dmxzgksg--dkxwhqdhwedowdnedbowkmhowrjcwHjuwOdebgcpw Zkwhqguwszcsmuohdksgo
zhwedck'hwkjwhcjm ngwhjwqzuwhjwhqcjewzkwdkwdujmkhwjrwohbngwhqdhwedo
omzhd ngpw Qgwedck'hwdw jbwhjwuggtbwdnjkawmywhqdhwbdcxwnztgwdwoqggy;wkj,
qgwsjugwsd'uwdkxwzuyjchdkh,wnztgwhqgwcdupw Eqgkwqgwajhwd-rcjkhwjrwmowqg
nzrhowqzowqdhwgigcwojwacdszjmowdkxwxdzkhb,wnztgwzhwedowhqgwnzxwjrwdw jf
hqdhwqdxw mhhgcrnzgowdonggywzkwzhwdkxwqgwxzxk'hwedkhwhjwxzohmc whqgu,
dkxwodbo:

“UcpwDcsqz dnxwKzsqjno,wZwycgomug?”

“Kj,wubw jb,”wodbowhqgwjnxwagkhngudk,w“Z'uwojccbwhjwodbw'hwbjmcwxczigc
qdowxgsgzigxwbjm;wKzsqjno'owyndsgwzowxjekwdwudhhgcwjrwhqcggwuzngwujcgp
Sjugwzk,wsjugwzkp”

Hjuwqgwhjjtwdwnjjtw dstwjigcwqzowoqjmnxgc,wdkxwodbo,w“Hjjwndhg--qg'owjmh
jrwozaqhp”

“Bgo,wqg'owajkg,wubwojk,wdkxwbjmwumohwsjugwzkwdkxwgdhwbjmcwxzkkgcwezhq
mo;wdkxwhqgkweg'nnwqzhsqwmywdkxwhdtgwbjmwxjekwhjwKzsqjno'op”

“Jq,wZw_sdk'h_wudtgwbjmwojwumsqwhcjm ng;wZwsjmnxk'hwhqzktwjrwzhpw Z'nn
ednt--Zwxjk'hwuzkxwhqgwxzohdksgp”

“ mhwegwejk'hw_ngh_wbjmwednt--zhwejmnxk'hw gwOjmhqgckwqjoyzhdnzhbwhjwxj
zhpwSjugwczaqhwzkp”

“Jq,w_xj_,”wodbowDmkhwOdnnb;w“zhwdzk'hwdw zhwjrwhcjm ngwhjwmo,wkjhwd
 zhwzkwhqgwejcnxpw Bjmwumohwohdbpw Zh'owdwnjka,wxmohbwhqcggwuzng,wdkx
egwsdk'hwnghwbjmwedntpw Dkx,w gozxgo,wZ'igwdncgdxbwhjnxw'guwhjwymhwjk
dkjhqgcwyndhgweqgkwZwoggwbjmwsjuzka;wojwbjmwumohk'hwxzodyyjzkhwmopw Sjug
czaqhwzkwdkxwudtgwbjmcognrwdhwqjugp”

OjwHjuwqgwhqdktgxwhqguwigcbwqgdchbwdkxwqdkxojug,wdkxwnghwqzuognrw g
ygcomdxgx,wdkxwsjugwzk;wdkxweqgkwqgwedowzkwqgwodzxwqgwedowdwohcdkagc
rcjuwQzstoiznng,wJqzj,wdkxwqzowkdugwedowEznnzduwHqjuyojk--dkxwqgwudxg
dkjhqgcw jep

Egnn,wqgwcmkwjk,wdkxwjk,wdkxwjk,wudtzkawmywohmrrwd jmhwQzstoiznngwdkx
gigcb jxbwzkwzhwqgwsjmnxwzkigkh,wdkxwZwaghhzkawdwnzhhngwkgcizjmo,wdkx
ejkxgczkawqjewhqzowedowajzkawhjwqgnywugwjmhwjrwubwoscdyg;wdkxwdhwndoh,
ohznnwhdntzkawdnjka,wqgwcgdsqgxwjigcwdkxwtzoogxwDmkhwOdnnbwczaqhwjkwhqg
ujmhq,wdkxwhqgkwoghhngxw dstwdadzkwzkwqzowsqdzcwsjurjchd ng,wdkxwedo
ajzkawjkwhdntzka;w mhwoqgw.muygxwmywdkxwezygxwzhwjrrwezhqwhqgw dstwjr
qgcwqdkx,wdkxwodbo:

“Bjmwjexdszjmowymyyb!”

Qgwnjjtgxwtzkxwjrwqmch,wdkxwodbo:

“Z'uwomcyczogxwdhwbjm,wu'dup”

“Bjm'cgwo'cy--Eqb,weqdhwxjwbjmwcgstjkwZwdu?w Z'igwdwajjxwkjhzjkwhjwhdtg
dkx--Odb,weqdhwxjwbjmwugdkw bwtzoozkawug?”

Qgwnjjtgxwtzkxwjrwqmu ng,wdkxwodbo:

“Zwxzxk'hwugdkwkjhqzka,wu'dupw Zwxzxk'hwugdkwkjwqdcupw Z--Z--hqjmaqhwbjm'x
nztgwzhp”

“Eqb,wbjmw jckwrjjn!”w Oqgwhjjtwmywhqgwoyzkkzkawohzst,wdkxwzhwnjjtgx
nztgwzhwedowdnnwoqgwsjmnxwxjwhjwtggywrcjuwazizkawqzuwdwscdstwezhqwzhp
w“EqdhwudxgwbjmwhqzktwZ'xwnztgwzh?”

“Egnn,wZwxjk'hwtkjepw Jknb,whqgb--hqgb--hjnxwugwbjmwejmnxp”

“_Hqgb_whjnxwbjmwZwejmnxpw Eqjgigcwhjnxwbjm'ow_dkjhqgc_wnmkdhzspw Z
kgigcwqgdcxwhqgw gdhwjrwzhpw Eqj'ow_hqgb_?”

“Eqb,wgigcb jxbpw Hqgbwdnnwodzxwoj,wu'dup”

Zhwedowdnnwoqgwsjmnxwxjwhjwqjnxwzk;wdkxwqgcwgbgowokdyygx,wdkxwqgc
rzkagcowejctgxwnztgwoqgwedkhgxwhjwoscdhsqwqzu;wdkxwoqgwodbo:

“Eqj'ow'gigcb jxb'?w Jmhwezhqwhqgzcwkdugo,wjcwhqgc'nnw gwdkwzxzjh
oqjchp”

Qgwajhwmywdkxwnjjtgxwxzohcgoogx,wdkxwrmu ngxwqzowqdh,wdkxwodbo:

“Z'uwojccb,wdkxwZwedck'hwgfygshzkawzhpw Hqgbwhjnxwugwhjpw Hqgbwdnnwhjnx
ugwhjpw Hqgbwdnnwodzx,wtzoowqgc;wdkxwodzxwoqg'xwnztgwzhpw Hqgbwdnnwodzx
zh--gigcbwjkgwjrwhqgupw  mhwZ'uwojccb,wu'du,wdkxwZwejk'hwxjwzhwkjwujcg--Z
ejk'h,wqjkgohp”

“Bjmwejk'h,wejk'hwbjm?w Egnn,wZwoq'xw_cgstjk_wbjmwejk'h!”

“Kj'u,wZ'uwqjkgohwd jmhwzh;wZwejk'hwgigcwxjwzhwdadzk--hznnwbjmwdotwugp”

“HznnwZw_dot_wbjm!w Egnn,wZwkgigcwoggwhqgw gdhwjrwzhwzkwubw jckwxdbo!
 Zwndbwbjm'nnw gwhqgwUghqmodngu-kmuotmnnwjrwscgdhzjkw grjcgwgigcwZwdot
bjm--jcwhqgwnztgowjrwbjmp”

“Egnn,”wqgwodbo,w“zhwxjgowomcyczogwugwojpw Zwsdk'hwudtgwzhwjmh,wojugqjep
Hqgbwodzxwbjmwejmnx,wdkxwZwhqjmaqhwbjmwejmnxpw  mh--”wQgwohjyygxwdkx
njjtgxwdcjmkxwonje,wnztgwqgwezoqgxwqgwsjmnxwcmkwdscjoowdwrczgkxnbwgbg
ojugeqgcgo,wdkxwrghsqgxwmywjkwhqgwjnxwagkhngudk'o,wdkxwodbo,w“Xzxk'h
_bjm_whqzktwoqg'xwnztgwugwhjwtzoowqgc,wozc?”

“Eqb,wkj;wZ--Z--egnn,wkj,wZw 'nzgigwZwxzxk'hp”

Hqgkwqgwnjjtowjkwdcjmkxwhqgwodugwedbwhjwug,wdkxwodbo:

“Hju,wxzxk'hw_bjm_whqzktwDmkhwOdnnbw'xwjygkwjmhwqgcwdcuowdkxwodb,w'Ozx
Odebgc--'”

“Ubwndkx!”woqgwodbo,w cgdtzkawzkwdkxw.muyzkawrjcwqzu,w“bjmwzuymxgkh
bjmkawcdosdn,whjwrjjnwdw jxbwoj--”wdkxwedowajzkawhjwqmawqzu,w mhwqg
rgkxgxwqgcwjrr,wdkxwodbo:

“Kj,wkjhwhznnwbjm'igwdotgxwugwrzcohp”

Ojwoqgwxzxk'hwnjogwkjwhzug,w mhwdotgxwqzu;wdkxwqmaagxwqzuwdkxwtzoogx
qzuwjigcwdkxwjigcwdadzk,wdkxwhqgkwhmckgxwqzuwjigcwhjwhqgwjnxwudk,wdkxwqg
hjjtweqdhwedowngrhpw Dkxwdrhgcwhqgbwajhwdwnzhhngwvmzghwdadzkwoqgwodbo:

“Eqb,wxgdcwug,wZwkgigcwoggwomsqwdwomcyczogpw Egwedck'hwnjjtzkawrjcw_bjm_
dhwdnn,w mhwjknbwHjupw Ozowkgigcwecjhgwhjwugwd jmhwdkb jxbwsjuzkaw mh
qzup”

“Zh'ow gsdmogwzhwedck'hw_zkhgkxgx_wrjcwdkbwjrwmowhjwsjugw mhwHju,”wqg
odbo;w“ mhwZw gaagxwdkxw gaagx,wdkxwdhwhqgwndohwuzkmhgwoqgwnghwug
sjug,whjj;woj,wsjuzkawxjekwhqgwczigc,wugwdkxwHjuwhqjmaqhwzhwejmnxw gwd
rzcoh-cdhgwomcyczogwrjcwqzuwhjwsjugwqgcgwhjwhqgwqjmogwrzcoh,wdkxwrjcwug
hjw bwdkxw bwhdawdnjkawdkxwxcjywzk,wdkxwnghwjkwhjw gwdwohcdkagcpw  mhwzh
edowdwuzohdtg,wDmkhwOdnnbpw Hqzowdzk'hwkjwqgdnhqbwyndsgwrjcwdwohcdkagc
hjwsjugp”

“Kj--kjhwzuymxgkhweqgnyo,wOzxpw Bjmwjmaqhwhjwqdxwbjmcw.deow jfgx;wZ
qdzk'hw ggkwojwymhwjmhwozksgwZwxjk'hwtkjeweqgkpw  mhwZwxjk'hwsdcg,wZ
xjk'hwuzkxwhqgwhgcuo--Z'xw gweznnzkawhjwohdkxwdwhqjmodkxwomsqw.jtgowhj
qdigwbjmwqgcgpwEgnn,whjwhqzktwjrwhqdhwygcrjcudksg!w Zwxjk'hwxgkbwzh,wZ
edowujohwymhczrzgxwezhqwdohjkzoqugkhweqgkwbjmwazigwugwhqdhwoudstp”

Egwqdxwxzkkgcwjmhwzkwhqdhw cjdxwjygkwydoodagw ghezfhwhqgwqjmogwdkx
hqgwtzhsqgk;wdkxwhqgcgwedowhqzkaowgkjmaqwjkwhqdhwhd ngwrjcwogigk
rduznzgo--dkxwdnnwqjh,whjj;wkjkgwjrwbjmcwrnd  b,whjmaqwugdhwhqdh'owndzx
zkwdwsmy jdcxwzkwdwxduywsgnndcwdnnwkzaqhwdkxwhdohgownztgwdwqmktwjr
jnxwsjnxwsdkkz dnwzkwhqgwujckzkapw MksngwOzndowqgwdotgxwdwycghhbwnjka
 ngoozkawjigcwzh,w mhwzhwedowejchqwzh;wdkxwzhwxzxk'hwsjjnwzhwdw zh,
kgzhqgc,whqgwedbwZ'igwoggkwhqguwtzkxwjrwzkhgccmyhzjkowxjwnjhowjrwhzugop
 Hqgcgwedowdwsjkozxgcd ngwajjxwxgdnwjrwhdntwdnnwhqgwdrhgckjjk,wdkxwug
dkxwHjuwedowjkwhqgwnjjtjmhwdnnwhqgwhzug;w mhwzhwedck'hwkjwmog,whqgb
xzxk'hwqdyygkwhjwodbwkjhqzkawd jmhwdkbwcmkdedbwkzaagc,wdkxwegwedowdrcdzx
hjwhcbwhjwejctwmywhjwzhpw  mhwdhwomyygc,wdhwkzaqh,wjkgwjrwhqgwnzhhng
 jbowodbo:

“Yd,wudbk'hwHjuwdkxwOzxwdkxwugwajwhjwhqgwoqje?”

“Kj,”wodbowhqgwjnxwudk,w“Zwcgstjkwhqgcgwdzk'hwajzkawhjw gwdkb;wdkxwbjm
sjmnxk'hwajwzrwhqgcgwedo;w gsdmogwhqgwcmkdedbwkzaagcwhjnxw mchjkwdkx
ugwdnnwd jmhwhqdhwosdkxdnjmowoqje,wdkxw mchjkwodzxwqgwejmnxwhgnnwhqg
ygjyng;wojwZwcgstjkwhqgb'igwxcjigwhqgwjexdszjmownjdrgcowjmhwjrwhjek
 grjcgwhqzowhzugp”

Ojwhqgcgwzhwedo!-- mhwZwsjmnxk'hwqgnywzhpw Hjuwdkxwugwedowhjwonggywzkwhqg
odugwcjjuwdkxw gx;woj,w gzkawhzcgx,wegw zxwajjx-kzaqhwdkxwegkhwmywhj
 gxwczaqhwdrhgcwomyygc,wdkxwsnmu wjmhwjrwhqgwezkxjewdkxwxjekwhqg
nzaqhkzka-cjx,wdkxwoqjigxwrjcwhqgwhjek;wrjcwZwxzxk'hw gnzgigwdkb jxbwedo
ajzkawhjwazigwhqgwtzkawdkxwhqgwxmtgwdwqzkh,wdkxwojwzrwZwxzxk'hwqmccbwmy
dkxwazigwhqguwjkgwhqgb'xwaghwzkhjwhcjm ngwomcgp

JkwhqgwcjdxwHjuwqgwhjnxwugwdnnwd jmhwqjewzhwedowcgstjkgxwZwedowumcxgcgx,
dkxwqjewydywxzodyygdcgxwycghhbwojjk,wdkxwxzxk'hwsjugw dstwkjwujcg,wdkx
eqdhwdwohzcwhqgcgwedoweqgkw.zuwcmkwdedb;wdkxwZwhjnxwHjuwdnnwd jmhwjmc
CjbdnwKjkgomsqwcdyosdnnzjko,wdkxwdowumsqwjrwhqgwcdrhwijbdagwdowZwqdx
hzugwhj;wdkxwdowegwohcmstwzkhjwhqgwhjekwdkxwmywhqcjmaqwhqgwhqgwuzxxngwjr
zh--zhwedowdowumsqwdowqdnr-drhgcwgzaqh,whqgk--qgcgwsjugowdwcdazkawcmoqwjr
ygjyngwezhqwhjcsqgo,wdkxwdkwdermnweqjjyzkawdkxwbgnnzka,wdkxw dkazkawhzk
ydkowdkxw njezkawqjcko;wdkxwegw.muygxwhjwjkgwozxgwhjwnghwhqguwajw b;
dkxwdowhqgbwegkhw bwZwoggwhqgbwqdxwhqgwtzkawdkxwhqgwxmtgwdohcdxxngwjrwd
cdzn--hqdhwzo,wZwtkjegxwzhw_edo_whqgwtzkawdkxwhqgwxmtg,whqjmaqwhqgbwedo
dnnwjigcwhdcwdkxwrgdhqgco,wdkxwxzxk'hwnjjtwnztgwkjhqzkawzkwhqg
ejcnxwhqdhwedowqmudk--.mohwnjjtgxwnztgwdwsjmyngwjrwujkohcjmow za
ojnxzgc-ynmugopw Egnn,wzhwudxgwugwozstwhjwoggwzh;wdkxwZwedowojccbwrjc
hqguwyjjcwyzhzrmnwcdosdno,wzhwoggugxwnztgwZwsjmnxk'hwgigcwrggnwdkb
qdcxkgoowdadzkohwhqguwdkbwujcgwzkwhqgwejcnxpw Zhwedowdwxcgdxrmnwhqzkawhj
oggpw Qmudkw gzkaow_sdk_w gwdermnwscmgnwhjwjkgwdkjhqgcp

Egwoggwegwedowhjjwndhg--sjmnxk'hwxjwkjwajjxpw Egwdotgxwojugwohcdaangco
d jmhwzh,wdkxwhqgbwodzxwgigcb jxbwegkhwhjwhqgwoqjewnjjtzkawigcb
zkkjsgkh;wdkxwndzxwnjewdkxwtgyhwxdctwhznnwhqgwyjjcwjnxwtzkawedowzkwhqg
uzxxngwjrwqzowsdijchzkaowjkwhqgwohdag;whqgkwojug jxbwazigwdwozakdn,wdkx
hqgwqjmogwcjogwmywdkxwegkhwrjcwhqgup

Ojwegwyjtgxwdnjkaw dstwqjug,wdkxwZwedck'hwrggnzkawojw cdoqwdowZwedo
 grjcg,w mhwtzkxwjrwjckgcb,wdkxwqmu ng,wdkxwhjw ndug,wojugqje--hqjmaq
Zwqdxk'hwxjkgwkjhqzkapw  mhwhqdh'owdnedbowhqgwedb;wzhwxjk'hwudtgwkj
xzrrgcgksgweqghqgcwbjmwxjwczaqhwjcwecjka,wdwygcojk'owsjkoszgksgwdzk'h
ajhwkjwogkog,wdkxw.mohwajgowrjcwqzuwdkbedbpw ZrwZwqdxwdwbdnngcwxjawhqdh
xzxk'hwtkjewkjwujcgwhqdkwdwygcojk'owsjkoszgksgwxjgowZwejmnxwyzojkwqzup
Zhwhdtgowmywujcgwcjjuwhqdkwdnnwhqgwcgohwjrwdwygcojk'owzkozxgo,wdkxwbgh
dzk'hwkjwajjx,wkjqjepw HjuwOdebgcwqgwodbowhqgwodugp




SQDYHGCwFFFZIp

EGwohjyygxwhdntzka,wdkxwajhwhjwhqzktzkapw  bwdkxw bwHjuwodbo:

“Njjtbwqgcg,wQmst,weqdhwrjjnowegwdcgwhjwkjhwhqzktwjrwzhw grjcg!w Zw ghwZ
tkjeweqgcgw.zuwzop”

“Kj!w Eqgcg?”

“Zkwhqdhwqmhwxjekw bwhqgwdoq-qjyygcpw Eqb,wnjjtbwqgcgpw Eqgkwegwedowdh
xzkkgc,wxzxk'hwbjmwoggwdwkzaagcwudkwajwzkwhqgcgwezhqwojugwizhhngo?”

“Bgop”

“Eqdhwxzxwbjmwhqzktwhqgwizhhngowedowrjc?”

“Rjcwdwxjap”

“Ojw'xwZpwEgnn,wzhwedok'hwrjcwdwxjap”

“Eqb?”

“ gsdmogwydchwjrwzhwedowedhgcugnjkp”

“Ojwzhwedo--Zwkjhzsgxwzhpw Egnn,wzhwxjgow gdhwdnnwhqdhwZwkgigcwhqjmaqh
d jmhwdwxjawkjhwgdhzkawedhgcugnjkpw Zhwoqjeowqjewdw jxbwsdkwoggwdkx
xjk'hwoggwdhwhqgwodugwhzugp”

“Egnn,whqgwkzaagcwmknjstgxwhqgwydxnjstweqgkwqgwegkhwzk,wdkxwqgwnjstgxwzh
dadzkweqgkwqgwsdugwjmhpw Qgwrghsqgxwmksngwdwtgbwd jmhwhqgwhzugwegwajhwmy
rcjuwhd ng--odugwtgb,wZw ghpw Edhgcugnjkwoqjeowudk,wnjstwoqjeowyczojkgc;
dkxwzhwdzk'hwnztgnbwhqgcg'owhejwyczojkgcowjkwomsqwdwnzhhngwyndkhdhzjk,
dkxweqgcgwhqgwygjyng'owdnnwojwtzkxwdkxwajjxpw .zu'owhqgwyczojkgcpw Dnn
czaqh--Z'uwandxwegwrjmkxwzhwjmhwxghgshzigwrdoqzjk;wZwejmnxk'hwazigwoqmsto
rjcwdkbwjhqgcwedbpw Kjewbjmwejctwbjmcwuzkx,wdkxwohmxbwjmhwdwyndkwhj
ohgdnw.zu,wdkxwZweznnwohmxbwjmhwjkg,whjj;wdkxweg'nnwhdtgwhqgwjkgwegwnztg
hqgw gohp”

Eqdhwdwqgdxwrjcw.mohwdw jbwhjwqdig!w ZrwZwqdxwHjuwOdebgc'owqgdxwZ
ejmnxk'hwhcdxgwzhwjrrwhjw gwdwxmtg,wkjcwudhgwjrwdwohgdu jdh,wkjcwsnjek
zkwdwszcsmo,wkjcwkjhqzkawZwsdkwhqzktwjrpw Zwegkhwhjwhqzktzkawjmhwdwyndk,
 mhwjknbw.mohwhjw gwxjzkawojughqzka;wZwtkjegxwigcbwegnnweqgcgwhqgwczaqh
yndkwedowajzkawhjwsjugwrcjupw YcghhbwojjkwHjuwodbo:

“Cgdxb?”

“Bgo,”wZwodbop

“Dnnwczaqh-- czkawzhwjmhp”

“Ubwyndkwzowhqzo,”wZwodbopww“Egwsdkwgdobwrzkxwjmhwzrwzh'ow.zuwzkwhqgcgp
Hqgkwaghwmywubwsdkjgwhj-ujccjewkzaqh,wdkxwrghsqwubwcdrhwjigcwrcjuwhqg
zondkxpw Hqgkwhqgwrzcohwxdctwkzaqhwhqdhwsjugowohgdnwhqgwtgbwjmhwjrwhqg
jnxwudk'ow czhsqgowdrhgcwqgwajgowhjw gx,wdkxwoqjigwjrrwxjekwhqgwczigc
jkwhqgwcdrhwezhqw.zu,wqzxzkawxdbhzugowdkxwcmkkzkawkzaqho,whqgwedbwugwdkx
.zuwmogxwhjwxjw grjcgpw Ejmnxk'hwhqdhwyndkwejct?”

“_Ejct_?w Eqb,wsgch'knbwzhwejmnxwejct,wnztgwcdhowd-rzaqhzkapw  mhwzh'o
hjjw ndug'wozuyng;whqgcgwdzk'hwkjhqzkaw_hj_wzhpw Eqdh'owhqgwajjxwjrwd
yndkwhqdhwdzk'hwkjwujcgwhcjm ngwhqdkwhqdh?w Zh'owdowuznxwdowajjog-uzntp
 Eqb,wQmst,wzhwejmnxk'hwudtgwkjwujcgwhdntwhqdkw cgdtzkawzkhjwdwojdy
rdshjcbp”

Zwkgigcwodzxwkjhqzka,w gsdmogwZwedck'hwgfygshzkawkjhqzkawxzrrgcgkh;w mh
Zwtkjegxwuzaqhbwegnnwhqdhweqgkgigcwqgwajhw_qzo_wyndkwcgdxbwzhwejmnxk'h
qdigwkjkgwjrwhqguwj .gshzjkowhjwzhp

Dkxwzhwxzxk'hpw Qgwhjnxwugweqdhwzhwedo,wdkxwZwoggwzkwdwuzkmhgwzhwedo
ejchqwrzrhggkwjrwuzkgwrjcwohbng,wdkxwejmnxwudtgw.zuw.mohwdowrcggwdwudk
dowuzkgwejmnx,wdkxwudb gwaghwmowdnnwtznngxw gozxgopw OjwZwedowodhzorzgx,
dkxwodzxwegwejmnxwednhlwzkwjkwzhpw Zwkggxk'hwhgnnweqdhwzhwedowqgcg,
 gsdmogwZwtkjegxwzhwejmnxk'hwohdbwhqgwedb,wzhwedopw Zwtkjegxwqgwejmnxw g
sqdkazkawzhwdcjmkxwgigcbweqzsqwedbwdowegwegkhwdnjka,wdkxwqgdizkawzkwkge
 mnnzkgoogoweqgcgigcwqgwajhwdwsqdksgpw Dkxwhqdhwzoweqdhwqgwxjkgp

Egnn,wjkgwhqzkawedowxgdxwomcg,wdkxwhqdhwedowhqdhwHjuwOdebgcwedowzk
gdckgoh,wdkxwedowdshmnbwajzkawhjwqgnywohgdnwhqdhwkzaagcwjmhwjrwondigcbp
Hqdhwedowhqgwhqzkawhqdhwedowhjjwudkbwrjcwugpw Qgcgwedowdw jbwhqdhwedo
cgoygshd ngwdkxwegnnw cmkawmy;wdkxwqdxwdwsqdcdshgcwhjwnjog;wdkxwrjntowdh
qjugwhqdhwqdxwsqdcdshgco;wdkxwqgwedow czaqhwdkxwkjhwngdhqgc-qgdxgx;wdkx
tkjezkawdkxwkjhwzakjcdkh;wdkxwkjhwugdk,w mhwtzkx;wdkxwbghwqgcgwqgwedo,
ezhqjmhwdkbwujcgwyczxg,wjcwczaqhkgoo,wjcwrggnzka,whqdkwhjwohjjywhj
hqzow mozkgoo,wdkxwudtgwqzuognrwdwoqdug,wdkxwqzowrduznbwdwoqdug,
 grjcgwgigcb jxbpw Zw_sjmnxk'h_wmkxgcohdkxwzhwkjwedbwdhwdnnpw Zhwedo
jmhcdagjmo,wdkxwZwtkjegxwZwjmaqhwhjw.mohwmywdkxwhgnnwqzuwoj;wdkxwojw g
qzowhcmgwrczgkx,wdkxwnghwqzuwvmzhwhqgwhqzkawczaqhweqgcgwqgwedowdkxwodig
qzuognrpwDkxwZw_xzx_wohdchwhjwhgnnwqzu;w mhwqgwoqmhwugwmy,wdkxwodbo:

“Xjk'hwbjmwcgstjkwZwtkjeweqdhwZ'uwd jmh?w Xjk'hwZwagkgcnbwtkjeweqdhwZ'u
d jmh?”

“Bgop”

“Xzxk'hwZw_odb_wZwedowajzkawhjwqgnywohgdnwhqgwkzaagc?”

“Bgop”

“_Egnn_,whqgkp”

Hqdh'owdnnwqgwodzx,wdkxwhqdh'owdnnwZwodzxpw Zhwedck'hwkjwmogwhjwodbwdkb
ujcg;w gsdmogweqgkwqgwodzxwqg'xwxjwdwhqzka,wqgwdnedbowxjkgwzhpw  mhwZ
sjmnxk'hwudtgwjmhwqjewqgwedoweznnzkawhjwajwzkhjwhqzowhqzka;wojwZw.moh
nghwzhwaj,wdkxwkgigcw jhqgcgxwkjwujcgwd jmhwzhpw Zrwqgwedow jmkxwhjwqdig
zhwoj,wZwsjmnxk'hwqgnywzhp

Eqgkwegwajhwqjugwhqgwqjmogwedowdnnwxdctwdkxwohznn;wojwegwegkhwjkwxjekwhj
hqgwqmhw bwhqgwdoq-qjyygcwrjcwhjwgfduzkgwzhpw Egwegkhwhqcjmaqwhqgwbdcx
ojwdowhjwoggweqdhwhqgwqjmkxowejmnxwxjpw Hqgbwtkjegxwmo,wdkxwxzxk'hwudtg
kjwujcgwkjzogwhqdkwsjmkhcbwxjaowzowdnedbowxjzkaweqgkwdkbhqzkawsjugow b
zkwhqgwkzaqhpw Eqgkwegwajhwhjwhqgwsd zkwegwhjjtwdwnjjtwdhwhqgwrcjkhwdkx
hqgwhejwozxgo;wdkxwjkwhqgwozxgwZwedck'hwdsvmdzkhgxwezhq--eqzsqwedowhqg
kjchqwozxg--egwrjmkxwdwovmdcgwezkxje-qjng,wmywhjngcd ngwqzaq,wezhqw.moh
jkgwohjmhw jdcxwkdzngxwdscjoowzhpw Zwodbo:

“Qgcg'owhqgwhzstghpw Hqzowqjng'ow zawgkjmaqwrjcw.zuwhjwaghwhqcjmaqwzrweg
ecgksqwjrrwhqgw jdcxp”

Hjuwodbo:

“Zh'owdowozuyngwdowhzh-hdh-hjg,whqcgg-zk-d-cje,wdkxwdowgdobwdo
yndbzkawqjjtbpw Zwoqjmnxw_qjyg_wegwsdkwrzkxwdwedbwhqdh'owdwnzhhngwujcg
sjuynzsdhgxwhqdkw_hqdh_,wQmstwRzkkp”

“Egnn,whqgk,”wZwodbo,w“qjew'nnwzhwxjwhjwodewqzuwjmh,whqgwedbwZwxjkg
 grjcgwZwedowumcxgcgxwhqdhwhzug?”

“Hqdh'owujcgw_nztg_,”wqgwodbopww“Zh'owcgdnwubohgczjmo,wdkxwhcjm ngojug,
dkxwajjx,”wqgwodbo;w“ mhwZw ghwegwsdkwrzkxwdwedbwhqdh'owhezsgwdownjkap
 Hqgcgwdzk'hwkjwqmccb;wng'owtggywjkwnjjtzkawdcjmkxp”

 ghezfhwhqgwqmhwdkxwhqgwrgksg,wjkwhqgw dstwozxg,wedowdwngdk-hjwhqdh
.jzkgxwhqgwqmhwdhwhqgwgdigo,wdkxwedowudxgwjmhwjrwyndktpw Zhwedowdownjka
dowhqgwqmh,w mhwkdccje--jknbwd jmhwozfwrjjhwezxgpw Hqgwxjjcwhjwzhwedowdh
hqgwojmhqwgkx,wdkxwedowydxnjstgxpw Hjuwqgwegkhwhjwhqgwojdy-tghhngwdkx
ogdcsqgxwdcjmkx,wdkxwrghsqgxw dstwhqgwzcjkwhqzkawhqgbwnzrhwhqgwnzxwezhq;
ojwqgwhjjtwzhwdkxwyczlgxwjmhwjkgwjrwhqgwohdyngopw Hqgwsqdzkwrgnnwxjek,
dkxwegwjygkgxwhqgwxjjcwdkxwegkhwzk,wdkxwoqmhwzh,wdkxwohcmstwdwudhsq,
dkxwoggwhqgwoqgxwedowjknbw mznhwdadzkohwdwsd zkwdkxwqdxk'hwkjwsjkkgshzjk
ezhqwzh;wdkxwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwrnjjcwhjwhqgwoqgx,wkjcwkjhqzkawzkwzhw mh
ojugwjnxwcmohbwyndbgx-jmhwqjgowdkxwoydxgowdkxwyzstowdkxwdwsczyyngxwynjep
 Hqgwudhsqwegkhwjmh,wdkxwojwxzxweg,wdkxwoqjigxwzkwhqgwohdyngwdadzk,wdkx
hqgwxjjcwedownjstgxwdowajjxwdowgigcpwHjuwedow.jbrmnpw Qgwodbo;

“Kjeweg'cgwdnnwczaqhpw Eg'nnw_xza_wqzuwjmhpw Zhw'nnwhdtgwd jmhwdweggt!”

Hqgkwegwohdchgxwrjcwhqgwqjmog,wdkxwZwegkhwzkwhqgw dstwxjjc--bjmwjknbwqdig
hjwymnnwdw mstotzkwndhsq-ohczka,whqgbwxjk'hwrdohgkwhqgwxjjco-- mhwhqdh
edck'hwcjudkhzsdnwgkjmaqwrjcwHjuwOdebgc;wkjwedbwejmnxwxjwqzuw mhwqgwumoh
snzu wmywhqgwnzaqhkzka-cjxpw  mhwdrhgcwqgwajhwmywqdnrwedbwd jmhwhqcgg
hzugo,wdkxwuzoogxwrzcgwdkxwrgnnwgigcbwhzug,wdkxwhqgwndohwhzugwujoh
 mohgxwqzow cdzkowjmh,wqgwhqjmaqhwqg'xwajhwhjwazigwzhwmy;w mhwdrhgcwqg
edowcgohgxwqgwdnnjegxwqgwejmnxwazigwqgcwjkgwujcgwhmckwrjcwnmst,wdkxwhqzo
hzugwqgwudxgwhqgwhczyp

Zkwhqgwujckzkawegwedowmywdhw cgdtwjrwxdb,wdkxwxjekwhjwhqgwkzaagcwsd zko
hjwyghwhqgwxjaowdkxwudtgwrczgkxowezhqwhqgwkzaagcwhqdhwrgxw.zu--zrwzh
_edo_w.zuwhqdhwedow gzkawrgxpw Hqgwkzaagcowedow.mohwaghhzkawhqcjmaq
 cgdtrdohwdkxwohdchzkawrjcwhqgwrzgnxo;wdkxw.zu'owkzaagcwedowyznzkawmy
dwhzkwydkwezhqw cgdxwdkxwugdhwdkxwhqzkao;wdkxweqznohwhqgwjhqgcowedo
ngdizka,whqgwtgbwsjugwrcjuwhqgwqjmogp

Hqzowkzaagcwqdxwdwajjx-kdhmcgx,wsqmstng-qgdxgxwrdsg,wdkxwqzowejjnwedo
dnnwhzgxwmywzkwnzhhngw mksqgowezhqwhqcgdxpw Hqdhwedowhjwtggywezhsqgo
jrrpw Qgwodzxwhqgwezhsqgowedowygohgczkawqzuwdermnwhqgogwkzaqho,wdkx
udtzkawqzuwoggwdnnwtzkxowjrwohcdkagwhqzkao,wdkxwqgdcwdnnwtzkxowjr
ohcdkagwejcxowdkxwkjzogo,wdkxwqgwxzxk'hw gnzgigwqgwedowgigcwezhsqgxwoj
njkaw grjcgwzkwqzownzrgpw Qgwajhwojwejctgxwmy,wdkxwajhwhjwcmkkzkawjkwoj
d jmhwqzowhcjm ngo,wqgwrjcajhwdnnwd jmhweqdhwqg'xw ggkwd-ajzkawhjwxjp
 OjwHjuwodbo:

“Eqdh'owhqgwizhhngowrjc?w Ajzkawhjwrggxwhqgwxjao?”

Hqgwkzaagcwtzkxwjrwouzngxwdcjmkxwacdxmdnnbwjigcwqzowrdsg,wnztgweqgkwbjm
qgdigwdw czst dhwzkwdwumx-ymxxng,wdkxwqgwodbo:

“Bgo,wUdcowOzx,wDwxjapw Smc'mowxja,whjjpw Xjgowbjmwedkhwhjwajwgkwnjjtwdh
'zu?”

“Bgop”

ZwqmksqgxwHju,wdkxweqzoygco:

“Bjmwajzka,wczaqhwqgcgwzkwhqgwxdb cgdt?w _hqdh_wedck'hwhqgwyndkp”

“Kj,wzhwedck'h;w mhwzh'owhqgwyndkw_kje_p”

Oj,wxcdhwqzu,wegwegkhwdnjka,w mhwZwxzxk'hwnztgwzhwumsqpw Eqgkwegwajhwzk
egwsjmnxk'hwqdcxnbwoggwdkbhqzka,wzhwedowojwxdct;w mhw.zuwedowhqgcg,womcg
gkjmaq,wdkxwsjmnxwoggwmo;wdkxwqgwozkaowjmh:

“Eqb,w_Qmst_!w Gkwajjxw_ndk_'!wdzk'wxdhwUzohjwHju?”

Zw.mohwtkjegxwqjewzhwejmnxw g;wZw.mohwgfygshgxwzhpw Zwxzxk'hwtkje
kjhqzkawhjwxj;wdkxwzrwZwqdxwZwsjmnxk'hwdwxjkgwzh,w gsdmogwhqdhwkzaagc
 mohgxwzkwdkxwodbo:

“Eqb,wxgwacdszjmowodtgo!wxjwqgwtkjewbjmwagknugk?”

Egwsjmnxwoggwycghhbwegnnwkjepw Hjuwqgwnjjtgxwdhwhqgwkzaagc,wohgdxbwdkx
tzkxwjrwejkxgczka,wdkxwodbo:

“Xjgow_eqj_wtkjewmo?”

“Eqb,wxzo-bgcwcmkdedbwkzaagcp”

“Zwxjk'hwcgstjkwqgwxjgo;w mhweqdhwymhwhqdhwzkhjwbjmcwqgdx?”

“Eqdhw_ymh_wzhwxdc?w Xzxk'wqgw.zo'wxzowuzkmhgwozkawjmhwnztgwqgwtkjegx
bjm?”

Hjuwodbo,wzkwdwymllngx-mywtzkxwjrwedb:

“Egnn,whqdh'owuzaqhbwsmczjmopw _Eqj_womkawjmh?w_eqgk_wxzxwqgwozkawjmh?
 _eqdh_wxzxwqgwozkawjmh?”wDkxwhmckowhjwug,wygcrgshnbwsd'u,wdkxwodbo,
“Xzxw_bjm_wqgdcwdkb jxbwozkawjmh?”

Jrwsjmcogwhqgcgwedck'hwkjhqzkawhjw gwodzxw mhwhqgwjkgwhqzka;wojwZwodbo:

“Kj;wZwdzk'hwqgdcxwkj jxbwodbwkjhqzkap”

Hqgkwqgwhmckowhjw.zu,wdkxwnjjtowqzuwjigcwnztgwqgwkgigcwoggwqzuw grjcg,
dkxwodbo:

“Xzxwbjmwozkawjmh?”

“Kj,wodq,”wodbow.zu;w“Zwqdzk'hwodzxwkjhqzka,wodqp”

“Kjhwdwejcx?”

“Kj,wodq,wZwqdzk'hwodzxwdwejcxp”

“Xzxwbjmwgigcwoggwmow grjcg?”

“Kj,wodq;wkjhwdowZwtkjeowjkp”

OjwHjuwhmckowhjwhqgwkzaagc,weqzsqwedownjjtzkaweznxwdkxwxzohcgoogx,wdkx
odbo,wtzkxwjrwogigcg:

“Eqdhwxjwbjmwcgstjk'owhqgwudhhgcwezhqwbjm,wdkbedb?w Eqdhwudxgwbjmwhqzkt
ojug jxbwomkawjmh?”

“Jq,wzh'owxgwxdx- ndug'wezhsqgo,wodq,wgkwZwezoqhwZwedowxgdx,wZwxjp
 Xgb'owdenmlwdhwzh,wodq,wgkwxgbwxjwujo'wtznnwug,wxgbwot'bgcowugwojp
 Yngdogwhjwxjk'hwhgnnwkj jxbw' jmhwzhwodq,wgcwjngwUdcowOzndowqg'nnwosjng
ug;w'tdogwqgwodbwxgbw_dzk'h_wkjwezhsqgopw Zw.zo'wezoqwhjwajjxkgoowqgwedo
qgdqwkje--_xgk_weqdhwejmnxwqgwodb!w Zw.zo'w ghwqgwsjmnxk'wrzkgwkjwedbwhj
azhwdcjmk'wzhw_xzo_whzugpw  mhwzh'owdenmlw.zo'woj;wygjyngwxdh'ow_ojh_,
ohdbowojh;wxgbwejk'hwnjjtwzkhjwkjhq'k'gkwrzkgwzhwjmhwr'cwxgbognigo,wgk
eqgkw_bjm_wrzkgwzhwjmhwgkwhgnnwmuw' jmhwzh,wxgbwxjdk'w 'nzgigwbjmp”

Hjuwazigwqzuwdwxzug,wdkxwodzxwegwejmnxk'hwhgnnwkj jxb;wdkxwhjnxwqzuwhj
 mbwojugwujcgwhqcgdxwhjwhzgwmywqzowejjnwezhq;wdkxwhqgkwnjjtowdhw.zu,wdkx
odbo:

“ZwejkxgcwzrwMksngwOzndowzowajzkawhjwqdkawhqzowkzaagcpw ZrwZwedowhj
sdhsqwdwkzaagcwhqdhwedowmkacdhgrmnwgkjmaqwhjwcmkwdedb,wZwejmnxk'hwazig
qzuwmy,wZ'xwqdkawqzup”w Dkxweqznohwhqgwkzaagcwohgyygxwhjwhqgwxjjcwhj
njjtwdhwhqgwxzugwdkxw zhgwzhwhjwoggwzrwzhwedowajjx,wqgweqzoygcowhjw.zu
dkxwodbo:

“Xjk'hwgigcwnghwjkwhjwtkjewmopw Dkxwzrwbjmwqgdcwdkbwxzaazkawajzkawjk
kzaqho,wzh'owmo;weg'cgwajzkawhjwoghwbjmwrcggp”

.zuwjknbwqdxwhzugwhjwacd wmow bwhqgwqdkxwdkxwovmgglgwzh;whqgkwhqgwkzaagc
sjugw dst,wdkxwegwodzxweg'xwsjugwdadzkwojugwhzugwzrwhqgwkzaagcwedkhgx
mowhj;wdkxwqgwodzxwqgwejmnx,wujcgwydchzsmndcwzrwzhwedowxdct,w gsdmogwhqg
ezhsqgowegkhwrjcwqzuwujohnbwzkwhqgwxdct,wdkxwzhwedowajjxwhjwqdigwrjnto
dcjmkxwhqgkp




SQDYHGCwFFFIp

ZHwejmnxw gwujohwdkwqjmcwbghwhznnw cgdtrdoh,wojwegwngrhwdkxwohcmstwxjek
zkhjwhqgwejjxo;w gsdmogwHjuwodzxwegwajhwhjwqdigw_ojug_wnzaqhwhjwoggwqje
hjwxzaw b,wdkxwdwndkhgckwudtgowhjjwumsq,wdkxwuzaqhwaghwmowzkhjwhcjm ng;
eqdhwegwumohwqdigwedowdwnjhwjrwhqguwcjhhgkwsqmktowhqdh'owsdnngx
rjf-rzcg,wdkxw.mohwudtgowdwojrhwtzkxwjrwdwanjeweqgkwbjmwndbwhqguwzkwd
xdctwyndsgpw Egwrghsqgxwdkwdcurmnwdkxwqzxwzhwzkwhqgweggxo,wdkxwoghwxjek
hjwcgoh,wdkxwHjuwodbo,wtzkxwjrwxzoodhzorzgx:

“ ndugwzh,whqzoweqjngwhqzkawzow.mohwdowgdobwdkxwdetedcxwdowzhwsdkw gp
Dkxwojwzhwudtgowzhwojwcjhhgkwxzrrzsmnhwhjwaghwmywdwxzrrzsmnhwyndkp
 Hqgcgwdzk'hwkjwedhsqudkwhjw gwxcmaagx--kjewhqgcgw_jmaqh_whjw gwd
edhsqudkpw Hqgcgwdzk'hwgigkwdwxjawhjwazigwdwonggyzka-uzfhmcgwhjpw Dkx
hqgcg'ow.zuwsqdzkgxw bwjkgwnga,wezhqwdwhgk-rjjhwsqdzk,whjwhqgwngawjrwqzo
 gx:w eqb,wdnnwbjmwajhwhjwxjwzowhjwnzrhwmywhqgw gxohgdxwdkxwonzywjrr
hqgwsqdzkpw DkxwMksngwOzndowqgwhcmohowgigcb jxb;wogkxowhqgwtgbwhjwhqg
ymktzk-qgdxgxwkzaagc,wdkxwxjk'hwogkxwkj jxbwhjwedhsqwhqgwkzaagcpw .zu
sjmnxwdwajhwjmhwjrwhqdhwezkxje-qjngw grjcgwhqzo,wjknbwhqgcgwejmnxk'hw g
kjwmogwhcbzkawhjwhcdignwezhqwdwhgk-rjjhwsqdzkwjkwqzowngapw Eqb,wxcdhwzh,
Qmst,wzh'owhqgwohmyzxgohwdccdkagugkhwZwgigcwoggpwBjmwajhwhjwzkigkhw_dnn_
hqgwxzrrzsmnhzgopw Egnn,wegwsdk'hwqgnywzh;wegwajhwhjwxjwhqgw gohwegwsdk
ezhqwhqgwudhgczdnoweg'igwajhpwDkbqje,whqgcg'owjkgwhqzka--hqgcg'owujcg
qjkjcwzkwaghhzkawqzuwjmhwhqcjmaqwdwnjhwjrwxzrrzsmnhzgowdkxwxdkagco,
eqgcgwhqgcgwedck'hwjkgwjrwhqguwrmckzoqgxwhjwbjmw bwhqgwygjyngweqjwzhwedo
hqgzcwxmhbwhjwrmckzoqwhqgu,wdkxwbjmwqdxwhjwsjkhczigwhqguwdnnwjmhwjrwbjmc
jekwqgdxpw Kjewnjjtwdhw.mohwhqdhwjkgwhqzkawjrwhqgwndkhgckpw Eqgkwbjm
sjugwxjekwhjwhqgwsjnxwrdsho,wegwozuynbwajhwhjw_nghwjk_whqdhwdwndkhgck'o
cgotbpw Eqb,wegwsjmnxwejctwezhqwdwhjcsqnzaqhwycjsgoozjkwzrwegwedkhgxwhj,
Zw gnzgigpw Kje,weqznohwZwhqzktwjrwzh,wegwajhwhjwqmkhwmywojughqzkawhj
udtgwdwodewjmhwjrwhqgwrzcohwsqdksgwegwaghp”

“Eqdhwxjwegwedkhwjrwdwode?”

“Eqdhwxjwegw_edkh_wjrwzh?w Qdzk'hwegwajhwhjwodewhqgwngawjrw.zu'ow gx
jrr,wojwdowhjwaghwhqgwsqdzkwnjjog?”

“Eqb,wbjmw.mohwodzxwdw jxbwsjmnxwnzrhwmywhqgw gxohgdxwdkxwonzywhqgwsqdzk
jrrp”

“Egnn,wzrwhqdhwdzk'hw.mohwnztgwbjm,wQmstwRzkkpw Bjmw_sdk_waghwmywhqg
zkrdkh-osqjjnzgohwedbowjrwajzkawdhwdwhqzkapw Eqb,wqdzk'hwbjmwgigcwcgdx
dkbw jjtowdhwdnn?-- dcjkwHcgkst,wkjcwSdodkjid,wkjcw gkigkmhjwSqgnnggkb,
kjcwQgkczwZIp,wkjcwkjkgwjrwhqguwqgcjgo?w Eqjwgigcwqgdcxwjrwaghhzkawd
yczojkgcwnjjogwzkwomsqwdkwjnx-udzxbwedbwdowhqdh?w Kj;whqgwedbwdnnwhqg
 gohwdmhqjczhzgowxjgowzowhjwodewhqgw gx-ngawzkwhej,wdkxwngdigwzhw.moh
oj,wdkxwoednnjewhqgwodexmoh,wojwzhwsdk'hw gwrjmkx,wdkxwymhwojugwxzchwdkx
acgdogwdcjmkxwhqgwodegxwyndsgwojwhqgwigcbwtggkgohwogkgotdnwsdk'hwogg
kjwozakwjrwzh'ow gzkawodegx,wdkxwhqzktowhqgw gx-ngawzowygcrgshnbwojmkxp
Hqgk,whqgwkzaqhwbjm'cgwcgdxb,wrghsqwhqgwngawdwtzst,wxjekwoqgwajgo;wonzy
jrrwbjmcwsqdzk,wdkxwhqgcgwbjmwdcgpw Kjhqzkawhjwxjw mhwqzhsqwbjmc
cjygwndxxgcwhjwhqgw dhhngugkho,woqzkwxjekwzh,w cgdtwbjmcwngawzkwhqg
ujdh-- gsdmogwdwcjygwndxxgcwzowkzkghggkwrjjhwhjjwoqjch,wbjmwtkje--dkx
hqgcg'owbjmcwqjcogowdkxwbjmcwhcmohbwidoongo,wdkxwhqgbwosjjywbjmwmywdkx
rnzkawbjmwdscjoowdwodxxng,wdkxwdedbwbjmwajwhjwbjmcwkdhzigwNdkamxjs,wjc
Kdidccg,wjcweqgcgigcwzhwzopwZh'owadmxb,wQmstpw Zwezoqwhqgcgwedowdwujdh
hjwhqzowsd zkpwZrwegwaghwhzug,whqgwkzaqhwjrwhqgwgosdyg,weg'nnwxzawjkgp”

Zwodbo:

“Eqdhwxjwegwedkhwjrwdwujdhweqgkweg'cgwajzkawhjwokdtgwqzuwjmhwrcjuwmkxgc
hqgwsd zk?”

 mhwqgwkgigcwqgdcxwugpw Qgwqdxwrjcajhwugwdkxwgigcbhqzkawgnogpw Qgwqdx
qzowsqzkwzkwqzowqdkx,whqzktzkapw Ycghhbwojjkwqgwozaqowdkxwoqdtgowqzo
qgdx;whqgkwozaqowdadzk,wdkxwodbo:

“Kj,wzhwejmnxk'hwxj--hqgcgwdzk'hwkgsgoozhbwgkjmaqwrjcwzhp”

“Rjcweqdh?”w Zwodbop

“Eqb,whjwodew.zu'owngawjrr,”wqgwodbop

“Ajjxwndkx!”w Zwodbo;w“eqb,whqgcgwdzk'hw_kj_wkgsgoozhbwrjcwzhpw Dkxweqdh
ejmnxwbjmwedkhwhjwodewqzowngawjrrwrjc,wdkbedb?”

“Egnn,wojugwjrwhqgw gohwdmhqjczhzgowqdowxjkgwzhpw Hqgbwsjmnxk'hwaghwhqg
sqdzkwjrr,wojwhqgbw.mohwsmhwhqgzcwqdkxwjrrwdkxwoqjigxpw Dkxwdwngawejmnx
 gw ghhgcwohznnpw  mhwegwajhwhjwnghwhqdhwajpw Hqgcgwdzk'hwkgsgoozhb
gkjmaqwzkwhqzowsdog;wdkx,w gozxgo,w.zu'owdwkzaagc,wdkxwejmnxk'h
mkxgcohdkxwhqgwcgdojkowrjcwzh,wdkxwqjewzh'owhqgwsmohjuwzkwGmcjyg;woj
eg'nnwnghwzhwajpw  mhwhqgcg'owjkgwhqzka--qgwsdkwqdigwdwcjygwndxxgc;weg
sdkwhgdcwmywjmcwoqgghowdkxwudtgwqzuwdwcjygwndxxgcwgdobwgkjmaqpw Dkxweg
sdkwogkxwzhwhjwqzuwzkwdwyzg;wzh'owujohnbwxjkgwhqdhwedbpw DkxwZ'igwgh
ejcogwyzgop”

“Eqb,wHjuwOdebgc,wqjewbjmwhdnt,”wZwodbo;w“.zuwdzk'hwajhwkjwmogwrjcwd
cjygwndxxgcp”

“Qgw_qdo_wajhwmogwrjcwzhpw Qjew_bjm_whdnt,wbjmw ghhgcwodb;wbjmwxjk'h
tkjewkjhqzkawd jmhwzhpw Qg'ow_ajh_whjwqdigwdwcjygwndxxgc;whqgbwdnnwxjp”

“Eqdhwzkwhqgwkdhzjkwsdkwqgw_xj_wezhqwzh?”

“_Xj_wezhqwzh?w Qgwsdkwqzxgwzhwzkwqzow gx,wsdk'hwqg?”w Hqdh'oweqdhwhqgb
dnnwxj;wdkxw_qg'o_wajhwhj,whjjpw Qmst,wbjmwxjk'hwgigcwogguwhjwedkhwhjwxj
dkbhqzkawhqdh'owcgamndc;wbjmwedkhwhjw gwohdchzkawojughqzkawrcgoqwdnnwhqg
hzugpwO'yjogwqgw_xjk'h_wxjwkjhqzkawezhqwzh?wdzk'hwzhwhqgcgwzkwqzow gx,
rjcwdwsnge,wdrhgcwqg'owajkg?wdkxwxjk'hwbjmwcgstjkwhqgb'nnwedkhwsngeo?
 Jrwsjmcogwhqgbweznnpw Dkxwbjmwejmnxk'hwngdigwhqguwdkb?w Hqdhwejmnxw gwd
_ycghhb_wqjexb-xj,w_ejmnxk'h_wzh!w Zwkgigcwqgdcxwjrwomsqwdwhqzkap”

“Egnn,”wZwodbo,w“zrwzh'owzkwhqgwcgamndhzjko,wdkxwqg'owajhwhjwqdig
zh,wdnnwczaqh,wnghwqzuwqdigwzh;w gsdmogwZwxjk'hwezoqwhjwajw dstwjkwkj
cgamndhzjko;w mhwhqgcg'owjkgwhqzka,wHjuwOdebgc--zrwegwajwhjwhgdczkawmy
jmcwoqgghowhjwudtgw.zuwdwcjygwndxxgc,weg'cgwajzkawhjwaghwzkhjwhcjm ng
ezhqwDmkhwOdnnb,w.mohwdowomcgwdowbjm'cgw jckpw Kje,whqgwedbwZwnjjtwdh
zh,wdwqzstcb- dctwndxxgcwxjk'hwsjohwkjhqzka,wdkxwxjk'hwedohgwkjhqzka,
dkxwzow.mohwdowajjxwhjwnjdxwmywdwyzgwezhq,wdkxwqzxgwzkwdwohcdewhzst,
dowdkbwcdawndxxgcwbjmwsdkwohdch;wdkxwdowrjcw.zu,wqgwdzk'hwqdxwkj
gfygczgksg,wdkxwojwqgwxjk'hwsdcgweqdhwtzkxwjrwd--”

“Jq,woqmsto,wQmstwRzkk,wzrwZwedowdowzakjcdkhwdowbjmwZ'xwtggy
ohznn--hqdh'oweqdhwZ'Xwxjpw Eqjwgigcwqgdcxwjrwdwohdhgwyczojkgcwgosdyzka
 bwdwqzstcb- dctwndxxgc?w Eqb,wzh'owygcrgshnbwczxzsmnjmop”

“Egnn,wdnnwczaqh,wHju,wrzfwzhwbjmcwjekwedb;w mhwzrwbjm'nnwhdtgwub
dxizsg,wbjm'nnwnghwugw jccjewdwoqgghwjrrwjrwhqgwsnjhqgonzkgp”

Qgwodzxwhqdhwejmnxwxjpw Dkxwhqdhwadigwqzuwdkjhqgcwzxgd,wdkxwqgwodbo:

“ jccjewdwoqzch,whjjp”

“Eqdhwxjwegwedkhwjrwdwoqzch,wHju?”

“Edkhwzhwrjcw.zuwhjwtggywdw.jmckdnwjkp”

“.jmckdnwbjmcwacdkkb--_.zu_wsdk'hweczhgp”

“O'yjogwqgw_sdk'h_weczhg--qgwsdkwudtgwudctowjkwhqgwoqzch,wsdk'hwqg,wzr
egwudtgwqzuwdwygkwjmhwjrwdkwjnxwygehgcwoyjjkwjcwdwyzgsgwjrwdkwjnxwzcjk
 dccgn-qjjy?”

“Eqb,wHju,wegwsdkwymnnwdwrgdhqgcwjmhwjrwdwajjogwdkxwudtgwqzuwdw ghhgc
jkg;wdkxwvmzstgc,whjjp”

“_Yczojkgco_wxjk'hwqdigwaggogwcmkkzkawdcjmkxwhqgwxjk.jk-tggywhjwymnn
ygkowjmhwjr,wbjmwumaazkopw Hqgbw_dnedbo_wudtgwhqgzcwygkowjmhwjrwhqg
qdcxgoh,whjmaqgoh,whcjm ngojugohwyzgsgwjrwjnxw cdoowsdkxngohzstwjc
ojughqzkawnztgwhqdhwhqgbwsdkwaghwhqgzcwqdkxowjk;wdkxwzhwhdtgowhqguweggto
dkxweggtowdkxwujkhqowdkxwujkhqowhjwrzngwzhwjmh,whjj,w gsdmogwhqgb'igwajh
hjwxjwzhw bwcm  zkawzhwjkwhqgwednnpw _Hqgb_wejmnxk'hwmogwdwajjog-vmznn
zrwhqgbwqdxwzhpwZhwdzk'hwcgamndcp”

“Egnn,whqgk,weqdh'nnwegwudtgwqzuwhqgwzktwjmhwjr?”

“Udkbwudtgowzhwjmhwjrwzcjk-cmohwdkxwhgdco;w mhwhqdh'owhqgwsjuujkwojch
dkxwejugk;whqgw gohwdmhqjczhzgowmogowhqgzcwjekw njjxpw .zuwsdkwxjwhqdh;
dkxweqgkwqgwedkhowhjwogkxwdkbwnzhhngwsjuujkwjcxzkdcbwubohgczjmowugoodag
hjwnghwhqgwejcnxwtkjeweqgcgwqg'owsdyhzidhgx,wqgwsdkweczhgwzhwjkwhqg
 jhhjuwjrwdwhzkwyndhgwezhqwdwrjctwdkxwhqcjewzhwjmhwjrwhqgwezkxjepw Hqg
ZcjkwUdotwdnedbowxjkgwhqdh,wdkxwzh'owdw ndug'wajjxwedb,whjjp”

“.zuwdzk'hwajhwkjwhzkwyndhgopw Hqgbwrggxwqzuwzkwdwydkp”

“Hqdhwdzk'hwkjhqzka;wegwsdkwaghwqzuwojugp”

“Sdk'hwkj jxbw_cgdx_wqzowyndhgop”

“Hqdhwdzk'hwajhwdkbhqzkawhjw_xj_wezhqwzh,wQmstwRzkkpw Dnnw_qg'o_wajhwhj
xjwzowhjweczhgwjkwhqgwyndhgwdkxwhqcjewzhwjmhpw Bjmwxjk'hw_qdig_whjw g
d ngwhjwcgdxwzhpwEqb,wqdnrwhqgwhzugwbjmwsdk'hwcgdxwdkbhqzkawdwyczojkgc
eczhgowjkwdwhzkwyndhg,wjcwdkbeqgcgwgnogp”

“Egnn,whqgk,weqdh'owhqgwogkogwzkwedohzkawhqgwyndhgo?”

“Eqb,w ndugwzhwdnn,wzhwdzk'hwhqgw_yczojkgc'o_wyndhgop”

“ mhwzh'ow_ojug jxb'o_wyndhgo,wdzk'hwzh?”

“Egnn,woyjo'kwzhwzo?w Eqdhwxjgowhqgw_yczojkgc_wsdcgweqjog--”

Qgw cjtgwjrrwhqgcg,w gsdmogwegwqgdcxwhqgw cgdtrdoh-qjckw njezkapw Ojweg
sngdcgxwjmhwrjcwhqgwqjmogp

DnjkawxmczkawhqgwujckzkawZw jccjegxwdwoqgghwdkxwdweqzhgwoqzchwjrrwjrwhqg
snjhqgo-nzkg;wdkxwZwrjmkxwdkwjnxwodstwdkxwymhwhqguwzkwzh,wdkxwegwegkh
xjekwdkxwajhwhqgwrjf-rzcg,wdkxwymhwhqdhwzkwhjjpw Zwsdnngxwzhw jccjezka,
 gsdmogwhqdhwedoweqdhwydywdnedbowsdnngxwzh;w mhwHjuwodzxwzhwedck'h
 jccjezka,wzhwedowohgdnzkapw Qgwodzxwegwedowcgycgogkhzkawyczojkgco;wdkx
yczojkgcowxjk'hwsdcgwqjewhqgbwaghwdwhqzkawojwhqgbwaghwzh,wdkxwkj jxb
xjk'hw ndugwhqguwrjcwzh,wgzhqgcpw Zhwdzk'hwkjwsczugwzkwdwyczojkgcwhj
ohgdnwhqgwhqzkawqgwkggxowhjwaghwdedbwezhq,wHjuwodzx;wzh'owqzowczaqh;wdkx
oj,wdownjkawdowegwedowcgycgogkhzkawdwyczojkgc,wegwqdxwdwygcrgshwczaqhwhj
ohgdnwdkbhqzkawjkwhqzowyndsgwegwqdxwhqgwngdohwmogwrjcwhjwaghwjmcognigo
jmhwjrwyczojkwezhqpw Qgwodzxwzrwegwedck'hwyczojkgcowzhwejmnxw gwdwigcb
xzrrgcgkhwhqzka,wdkxwkj jxbw mhwdwugdk,wjckgcbwygcojkwejmnxwohgdnweqgk
qgwedck'hwdwyczojkgcpw Ojwegwdnnjegxwegwejmnxwohgdnwgigcbhqzkawhqgcgwedo
hqdhwsjugwqdkxbpw Dkxwbghwqgwudxgwdwuzaqhbwrmoo,wjkgwxdb,wdrhgcwhqdh,
eqgkwZwohjngwdwedhgcugnjkwjmhwjrwhqgwkzaagc-ydhsqwdkxwgdhwzh;wdkxwqg
udxgwugwajwdkxwazigwhqgwkzaagcowdwxzugwezhqjmhwhgnnzkawhqguweqdhwzh
edowrjcpwHjuwodzxwhqdhweqdhwqgwugdkhwedo,wegwsjmnxwohgdnwdkbhqzkaweg
_kggxgx_pwEgnn,wZwodbo,wZwkggxgxwhqgwedhgcugnjkpw  mhwqgwodzxwZwxzxk'h
kggxwzhwhjwaghwjmhwjrwyczojkwezhq;whqgcg'oweqgcgwhqgwxzrrgcgksgwedop
 QgwodzxwzrwZ'xwdwedkhgxwzhwhjwqzxgwdwtkzrgwzk,wdkxwoumaangwzhwhjw.zu
hjwtznnwhqgwogkgotdnwezhq,wzhwejmnxwdw ggkwdnnwczaqhpw OjwZwnghwzhwajwdh
hqdh,whqjmaqwZwsjmnxk'hwoggwkjwdxidkhdagwzkwubwcgycgogkhzkawdwyczojkgc
zrwZwajhwhjwoghwxjekwdkxwsqdewjigcwdwnjhwjrwajnx-ngdrwxzohzkshzjkownztg
hqdhwgigcbwhzugwZwoggwdwsqdksgwhjwqjawdwedhgcugnjkp

Egnn,wdowZwedowodbzka,wegwedzhgxwhqdhwujckzkawhznnwgigcb jxbwedowoghhngx
xjekwhjw mozkgoo,wdkxwkj jxbwzkwozaqhwdcjmkxwhqgwbdcx;whqgkwHjuwqg
sdcczgxwhqgwodstwzkhjwhqgwngdk-hjweqznohwZwohjjxwjrrwdwyzgsgwhjwtggy
edhsqpw  bwdkxw bwqgwsjugwjmh,wdkxwegwegkhwdkxwoghwxjekwjkwhqgwejjxyzng
hjwhdntpw Qgwodbo:

“Gigcbhqzka'owdnnwczaqhwkjewgfsgyhwhjjno;wdkxwhqdh'owgdobwrzfgxp”

“Hjjno?”w Zwodbop

“Bgop”

“Hjjnowrjcweqdh?”

“Eqb,whjwxzawezhqpw Egwdzk'hwd-ajzkawhjw_akde_wqzuwjmh,wdcgweg?”

“Dzk'hwhqguwjnxwsczyyngxwyzstowdkxwhqzkaowzkwhqgcgwajjxwgkjmaqwhjwxzawd
kzaagcwjmhwezhq?”w Zwodbop

Qgwhmckowjkwug,wnjjtzkawyzhbzkawgkjmaqwhjwudtgwdw jxbwscb,wdkxwodbo:

“QmstwRzkk,wxzxwbjmw_gigc_wqgdcwjrwdwyczojkgcwqdizkawyzstowdkxwoqjigno,
dkxwdnnwhqgwujxgckwsjkigkzgksgowzkwqzowedcxcj gwhjwxzawqzuognrwjmhwezhq?
 KjewZwedkhwhjwdotwbjm--zrwbjmwajhwdkbwcgdojkd ngkgoowzkwbjmwdhwdnn--eqdh
tzkxwjrwdwoqjewejmnxw_hqdh_wazigwqzuwhjw gwdwqgcj?w Eqb,whqgbwuzaqhwdo
egnnwngkxwqzuwhqgwtgbwdkxwxjkgwezhqwzhpw Yzstowdkxwoqjigno--eqb,whqgb
ejmnxk'hwrmckzoqw'guwhjwdwtzkap”

“Egnn,whqgk,”wZwodbo,w“zrwegwxjk'hwedkhwhqgwyzstowdkxwoqjigno,weqdhwxj
egwedkh?”

“Dwsjmyngwjrwsdog-tkzigop”

“Hjwxzawhqgwrjmkxdhzjkowjmhwrcjuwmkxgcwhqdhwsd zkwezhq?”

“Bgop”

“Sjkrjmkxwzh,wzh'owrjjnzoq,wHjup”

“Zhwxjk'hwudtgwkjwxzrrgcgksgwqjewrjjnzoqwzhwzo,wzh'owhqgw_czaqh_wedb--dkx
zh'owhqgwcgamndcwedbpw Dkxwhqgcgwdzk'hwkjw_jhqgc_wedb,whqdhwgigcwZwqgdcx
jr,wdkxwZ'igwcgdxwdnnwhqgw jjtowhqdhwazigowdkbwzkrjcudhzjkwd jmhwhqgog
hqzkaopwHqgbwdnedbowxzawjmhwezhqwdwsdog-tkzrg--dkxwkjhwhqcjmaqwxzch,wuzkx
bjm;wagkgcnbwzh'owhqcjmaqwojnzxwcjstpw Dkxwzhwhdtgowhqguweggtowdkxweggto
dkxweggto,wdkxwrjcwgigcwdkxwgigcpw Eqb,wnjjtwdhwjkgwjrwhqguwyczojkgcowzk
hqgw jhhjuwxmkagjkwjrwhqgwSdohngwXggr,wzkwhqgwqdc jcwjrwUdcogznngo,whqdh
xmawqzuognrwjmhwhqdhwedb;wqjewnjkawedow_qg_wdhwzh,wbjmwcgstjk?”

“Zwxjk'hwtkjep”

“Egnn,wamgoop”

“Zwxjk'hwtkjepw Dwujkhqwdkxwdwqdnrp”

“_Hqzchb-ogigkwbgdc_--dkxwqgwsjugwjmhwzkwSqzkdpw _Hqdh'o_whqgwtzkxpw Z
ezoqwhqgw jhhjuwjrw_hqzo_wrjchcgoowedowojnzxwcjstp”

“_.zu_wxjk'hwtkjewkj jxbwzkwSqzkdp”

“Eqdh'ow_hqdh_wajhwhjwxjwezhqwzh?w Kgzhqgcwxzxwhqdhwjhqgcwrgnnjepw  mh
bjm'cgwdnedbowd-edkxgczkawjrrwjkwdwozxgwzoomgpw Eqbwsdk'hwbjmwohzstwhj
hqgwudzkwyjzkh?”

“Dnnwczaqh--Zwxjk'hwsdcgweqgcgwqgwsjugowjmh,wojwqgw_sjugo_wjmh;wdkxw.zu
xjk'h,wgzhqgc,wZwcgstjkpw  mhwhqgcg'owjkgwhqzka,wdkbedb--.zu'owhjjwjnxwhj
 gwxmawjmhwezhqwdwsdog-tkzrgpw Qgwejk'hwndohp”

“Bgowqgweznnw_ndoh_,whjjpw Bjmwxjk'hwcgstjkwzh'owajzkawhjwhdtg
hqzchb-ogigkwbgdcowhjwxzawjmhwhqcjmaqwdw_xzch_wrjmkxdhzjk,wxjwbjm?”

“Qjewnjkaweznnwzhwhdtg,wHju?”

“Egnn,wegwsdk'hwcgotw gzkawdownjkawdowegwjmaqhwhj,w gsdmogwzhwudbk'h
hdtgwigcbwnjkawrjcwMksngwOzndowhjwqgdcwrcjuwxjekwhqgcgw bwKgewJcngdkop
 Qg'nnwqgdcw.zuwdzk'hwrcjuwhqgcgpw Hqgkwqzowkgfhwujigweznnw gwhj
dxigchzogw.zu,wjcwojughqzkawnztgwhqdhpw Ojwegwsdk'hwcgotw gzkawdownjka
xzaazkawqzuwjmhwdowegwjmaqhwhjpw  bwczaqhowZwcgstjkwegwjmaqhwhjw g
dwsjmyngwjrwbgdco;w mhwegwsdk'hpw Hqzkaow gzkawojwmksgchdzk,weqdhwZ
cgsjuugkxwzowhqzo:w hqdhwegwcgdnnbwxzawczaqhwzk,wdowvmzstwdowegwsdk;
dkxwdrhgcwhqdh,wegwsdkw_nghwjk_,whjwjmcognigo,whqdhwegwedowdhwzh
hqzchb-ogigkwbgdcopw Hqgkwegwsdkwokdhsqwqzuwjmhwdkxwcmoqwqzuwdedbwhqg
rzcohwhzugwhqgcg'owdkwdndcupw Bgo,wZwcgstjkwhqdhw'nnw gwhqgw gohwedbp”

“Kje,whqgcg'ow_ogkog_wzkwhqdh,”wZwodbopww“Nghhzkawjkwxjk'hwsjohwkjhqzka;
nghhzkawjkwdzk'hwkjwhcjm ng;wdkxwzrwzh'owdkbwj .gsh,wZwxjk'hwuzkx
nghhzkawjkwegwedowdhwzhwdwqmkxcgxwdkxwrzrhbwbgdcpw Zhwejmnxk'hwohcdzk
ugwkjkg,wdrhgcwZwajhwubwqdkxwzkpw OjwZ'nnwujogbwdnjkawkje,wdkxwoujmsqwd
sjmyngwjrwsdog-tkzigop”

“Oujmsqwhqcgg,”wqgwodbo;w“egwedkhwjkgwhjwudtgwdwodewjmhwjrp”

“Hju,wzrwzhwdzk'hwmkcgamndcwdkxwzccgnzazjmowhjwog.gohwzh,”wZwodbo,
“hqgcg'owdkwjnxwcmohbwode- ndxgwdcjmkxwbjkxgcwohzstzkawmkxgcwhqg
egdhqgc- jdcxzkaw gqzkxwhqgwoujtg-qjmogp”

Qgwnjjtgxwtzkxwjrwegdcbwdkxwxzosjmcdagx-nztg,wdkxwodbo:

“Zhwdzk'hwkjwmogwhjwhcbwhjwngdckwbjmwkjhqzka,wQmstpw Cmkwdnjkawdkx
oujmsqwhqgwtkzigo--hqcggwjrwhqgup”w OjwZwxjkgwzhp




SQDYHGCwFFFIZp

DOwojjkwdowegwcgstjkgxwgigcb jxbwedowdonggywhqdhwkzaqhwegwegkhwxjekwhqg
nzaqhkzka-cjx,wdkxwoqmhwjmcognigowmywzkwhqgwngdk-hj,wdkxwajhwjmhwjmc
yzngwjrwrjf-rzcg,wdkxwegkhwhjwejctpw Egwsngdcgxwgigcbhqzkawjmhwjrwhqg
edb,wd jmhwrjmcwjcwrzigwrjjhwdnjkawhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgw jhhjuwnjapw Hju
odzxwqgwedowczaqhw gqzkxw.zu'ow gxwkje,wdkxweg'xwxzawzkwmkxgcwzh,wdkx
eqgkwegwajhwhqcjmaqwhqgcgwsjmnxk'hwkj jxbwzkwhqgwsd zkwgigcwtkjewhqgcg
edowdkbwqjngwhqgcg,w gsdmogw.zu'owsjmkhgc-yzkwqmkawxjekwujohwhjwhqg
acjmkx,wdkxwbjm'xwqdigwhjwcdzogwzhwmywdkxwnjjtwmkxgcwhjwoggwhqgwqjngp
 Ojwegwxmawdkxwxmawezhqwhqgwsdog-tkzigowhznnwujohwuzxkzaqh;wdkxwhqgk
egwedowxja-hzcgx,wdkxwjmcwqdkxowedow nzohgcgx,wdkxwbghwbjmwsjmnxk'hwogg
eg'xwxjkgwdkbhqzkawqdcxnbpw DhwndohwZwodbo:

“Hqzowdzk'hwkjwhqzchb-ogigkwbgdcw.j ;whqzowzowdwhqzchb-gzaqhwbgdcw.j ,
HjuwOdebgcp”

Qgwkgigcwodzxwkjhqzkapw  mhwqgwozaqgx,wdkxwycghhbwojjkwqgwohjyygx
xzaazka,wdkxwhqgkwrjcwdwajjxwnzhhngweqzngwZwtkjegxwhqdhwqgwedowhqzktzkap
Hqgkwqgwodbo:

“Zhwdzk'hwkjwmog,wQmst,wzhwdzk'hwd-ajzkawhjwejctpw Zrwegwedowyczojkgco
zhwejmnx,w gsdmogwhqgkweg'xwqdigwdowudkbwbgdcowdowegwedkhgx,wdkxwkj
qmccb;wdkxwegwejmnxk'hwaghw mhwdwrgewuzkmhgowhjwxza,wgigcbwxdb,weqzng
hqgbwedowsqdkazkawedhsqgo,wdkxwojwjmcwqdkxowejmnxk'hwaghw nzohgcgx,wdkx
egwsjmnxwtggywzhwmywczaqhwdnjka,wbgdcwzkwdkxwbgdcwjmh,wdkxwxjwzhwczaqh,
dkxwhqgwedbwzhwjmaqhwhjw gwxjkgpw  mhw_eg_wsdk'hwrjjnwdnjka;wegwajhwhj
cmoq;wegwdzk'hwajhwkjwhzugwhjwoydcgpw Zrwegwedowhjwymhwzkwdkjhqgc
kzaqhwhqzowedbweg'xwqdigwhjwtkjstwjrrwrjcwdweggtwhjwnghwjmcwqdkxowagh
egnn--sjmnxk'hwhjmsqwdwsdog-tkzrgwezhqwhqguwojjkgcp”

“Egnn,whqgk,weqdhwegwajzkawhjwxj,wHju?”

“Z'nnwhgnnwbjmpw Zhwdzk'hwczaqh,wdkxwzhwdzk'hwujcdn,wdkxwZwejmnxk'hwnztg
zhwhjwaghwjmh;w mhwhqgcgwdzk'hwjknbw.mohwhqgwjkgwedb:w egwajhwhjwxzawqzu
jmhwezhqwhqgwyzsto,wdkxw_nghwjk_wzh'owsdog-tkzigop”

“_Kje_wbjm'cgw_hdntzka_!”w Zwodbo;w“bjmcwqgdxwaghowngigngcwdkxwngigngc
dnnwhqgwhzug,wHjuwOdebgc,”wZwodbopww“Yzstowzowhqgwhqzka,wujcdnwjcwkj
ujcdn;wdkxwdowrjcwug,wZwxjk'hwsdcgwoqmstowrjcwhqgwujcdnzhbwjrwzh,wkjqjep
 EqgkwZwohdchwzkwhjwohgdnwdwkzaagc,wjcwdwedhgcugnjk,wjcwdwOmkxdb-osqjjn
 jjt,wZwdzk'hwkjwedbowydchzsmndcwqjewzh'owxjkgwojwzh'owxjkgpw EqdhwZ
edkhwzowubwkzaagc;wjcweqdhwZwedkhwzowubwedhgcugnjk;wjcweqdhwZwedkhwzowub
Omkxdb-osqjjnw jjt;wdkxwzrwdwyzst'owhqgwqdkxzgohwhqzka,whqdh'owhqgwhqzka
Z'uwd-ajzkawhjwxzawhqdhwkzaagcwjcwhqdhwedhgcugnjkwjcwhqdhwOmkxdb-osqjjn
 jjtwjmhwezhq;wdkxwZwxjk'hwazigwdwxgdxwcdhweqdhwhqgwdmhqjczhzgowhqzkto
d jmhwzhwkmhqgcp”

“Egnn,”wqgwodbo,w“hqgcg'owgfsmogwrjcwyzstowdkxwnghhzka-jkwzkwdwsdogwnztg
hqzo;wzrwzhwedck'hwoj,wZwejmnxk'hwdyycjigwjrwzh,wkjcwZwejmnxk'hwohdkxw b
dkxwoggwhqgwcmngow cjtg-- gsdmogwczaqhwzowczaqh,wdkxwecjkawzowecjka,
dkxwdw jxbwdzk'hwajhwkjw mozkgoowxjzkawecjkaweqgkwqgwdzk'hwzakjcdkhwdkx
tkjeow ghhgcpw Zhwuzaqhwdkoegcwrjcw_bjm_whjwxzaw.zuwjmhwezhqwdwyzst,
_ezhqjmh_wdkbwnghhzkawjk,w gsdmogwbjmwxjk'hwtkjewkjw ghhgc;w mhwzh
ejmnxk'hwrjcwug,w gsdmogwZwxjwtkjew ghhgcpw Azuugwdwsdog-tkzrgp”

Qgwqdxwqzowjekw bwqzu,w mhwZwqdkxgxwqzuwuzkgpw Qgwrnmkawzhwxjek,wdkx
odbo:

“Azuugwdw_sdog-tkzrg_p”

Zwxzxk'hwtkjew.mohweqdhwhjwxj-- mhwhqgkwZwhqjmaqhpw Zwoscdhsqgxwdcjmkx
dujkaohwhqgwjnxwhjjno,wdkxwajhwdwyzstdfgwdkxwazigwzhwhjwqzu,wdkxwqgwhjjt
zhwdkxwegkhwhjwejct,wdkxwkgigcwodzxwdwejcxp

Qgwedowdnedbow.mohwhqdhwydchzsmndcpw Rmnnwjrwyczkszyngp

OjwhqgkwZwajhwdwoqjign,wdkxwhqgkwegwyzstgxwdkxwoqjigngx,whmckwd jmh,
dkxwudxgwhqgwrmcwrnbpw Egwohmstwhjwzhwd jmhwdwqdnrwdkwqjmc,weqzsqwedowdo
njkawdowegwsjmnxwohdkxwmy;w mhwegwqdxwdwajjxwxgdnwjrwdwqjngwhjwoqjewrjc
zhpwEqgkwZwajhwmywohdzcowZwnjjtgxwjmhwdhwhqgwezkxjewdkxwoggwHjuwxjzka
qzowngignw gohwezhqwhqgwnzaqhkzka-cjx,w mhwqgwsjmnxk'hwsjugwzh,wqzo
qdkxowedowojwojcgpw Dhwndohwqgwodbo:

“Zhwdzk'hwkjwmog,wzhwsdk'hw gwxjkgpw EqdhwbjmwcgstjkwZw ghhgcwxj?w Sdk'h
bjmwhqzktwjrwkjwedb?”

“Bgo,”wZwodbo,w“ mhwZwcgstjkwzhwdzk'hwcgamndcpw Sjugwmywhqgwohdzco,wdkx
nghwjkwzh'owdwnzaqhkzka-cjxp”

Ojwqgwxjkgwzhp

KgfhwxdbwHjuwohjngwdwygehgcwoyjjkwdkxwdw cdoowsdkxngohzstwzkwhqgwqjmog,
rjcwhjwudtgwojugwygkowrjcw.zuwjmhwjr,wdkxwozfwhdnnjewsdkxngo;wdkxwZ
qmkawdcjmkxwhqgwkzaagcwsd zkowdkxwndzxwrjcwdwsqdksg,wdkxwohjngwhqcggwhzk
yndhgopw Hjuwodbowzhwedok'hwgkjmaq;w mhwZwodzxwkj jxbwejmnxk'hwgigcwogg
hqgwyndhgowhqdhw.zuwhqcjegxwjmh,w gsdmogwhqgb'xwrdnnwzkwhqgwxja-rgkkgn
dkxw.zuyojkweggxowmkxgcwhqgwezkxje-qjng--hqgkwegwsjmnxwhjhgwhqguw dstwdkx
qgwsjmnxwmogwhqguwjigcwdadzkpw OjwHjuwedowodhzorzgxpw Hqgkwqgwodbo:

“Kje,whqgwhqzkawhjwohmxbwjmhwzo,wqjewhjwaghwhqgwhqzkaowhjw.zup”

“Hdtgwhqguwzkwhqcjmaqwhqgwqjng,”wZwodbo,w“eqgkwegwaghwzhwxjkgp”

Qgwjknbw.mohwnjjtgxwosjckrmn,wdkxwodzxwojughqzkawd jmhwkj jxbwgigcwqgdcx
jrwomsqwdkwzxzjhzswzxgd,wdkxwhqgkwqgwegkhwhjwohmxbzkapw  bwdkxw bwqg
odzxwqgwqdxwszyqgcgxwjmhwhejwjcwhqcggwedbo,w mhwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwkggxwhj
xgszxgwjkwdkbwjrwhqguwbghpw Odzxweg'xwajhwhjwyjohw.zuwrzcohp

Hqdhwkzaqhwegwegkhwxjekwhqgwnzaqhkzka-cjxwdwnzhhngwdrhgcwhgk,wdkxwhjjt
jkgwjrwhqgwsdkxngowdnjka,wdkxwnzohgkgxwmkxgcwhqgwezkxje-qjng,wdkxwqgdcx
.zuwokjczka;wojwegwyzhsqgxwzhwzk,wdkxwzhwxzxk'hwedtgwqzupw Hqgkweg
eqzcngxwzkwezhqwhqgwyzstwdkxwoqjign,wdkxwzkwd jmhwhejwqjmcowdkxwdwqdnr
hqgw.j wedowxjkgpw Egwscgyhwzkwmkxgcw.zu'ow gxwdkxwzkhjwhqgwsd zk,wdkx
ydegxwdcjmkxwdkxwrjmkxwhqgwsdkxngwdkxwnzhwzh,wdkxwohjjxwjigcw.zuwdeqzng,
dkxwrjmkxwqzuwnjjtzkawqgdchbwdkxwqgdnhqb,wdkxwhqgkwegwejtgwqzuwmywagkhng
dkxwacdxmdnpw Qgwedowojwandxwhjwoggwmowqgwujohwsczgx;wdkxwsdnngxwmo
qjkgb,wdkxwdnnwhqgwyghwkdugowqgwsjmnxwhqzktwjr;wdkxwedowrjcwqdizkawmo
qmkhwmywdwsjnx-sqzognwhjwsmhwhqgwsqdzkwjrrwjrwqzowngawezhqwczaqhwdedb,
dkxwsngdczkawjmhwezhqjmhwnjozkawdkbwhzugpw  mhwHjuwqgwoqjegxwqzuwqje
mkcgamndcwzhwejmnxw g,wdkxwoghwxjekwdkxwhjnxwqzuwdnnwd jmhwjmcwyndko,
dkxwqjewegwsjmnxwdnhgcwhqguwzkwdwuzkmhgwdkbwhzugwhqgcgwedowdkwdndcu;wdkx
kjhwhjw gwhqgwngdohwdrcdzx,w gsdmogwegwejmnxwoggwqgwajhwdedb,w_omcg_p
 Ojw.zuwqgwodzxwzhwedowdnnwczaqh,wdkxwegwoghwhqgcgwdkxwhdntgxwjigcwjnx
hzugowdeqzng,wdkxwhqgkwHjuwdotgxwdwnjhwjrwvmgohzjko,wdkxweqgkw.zuwhjnx
qzuwMksngwOzndowsjugwzkwgigcbwxdbwjcwhejwhjwycdbwezhqwqzu,wdkxwDmkh
Odnnbwsjugwzkwhjwoggwzrwqgwedowsjurjchd ngwdkxwqdxwyngkhbwhjwgdh,wdkx
 jhqwjrwhqguwedowtzkxwdowhqgbwsjmnxw g,wHjuwodbo:

“_Kje_wZwtkjewqjewhjwrzfwzhpw Eg'nnwogkxwbjmwojugwhqzkaow bwhqgup”

Zwodzx,w“Xjk'hwxjwkjhqzkawjrwhqgwtzkx;wzh'owjkgwjrwhqgwujohw.dstdoo
zxgdowZwgigcwohcmst;”w mhwqgwkgigcwydzxwkjwdhhgkhzjkwhjwug;wegkhwczaqh
jkpw Zhwedowqzowedbweqgkwqg'xwajhwqzowyndkowoghp

Ojwqgwhjnxw.zuwqjeweg'xwqdigwhjwoumaangwzkwhqgwcjyg-ndxxgcwyzgwdkxwjhqgc
ndcagwhqzkaow bwKdh,whqgwkzaagcwhqdhwrgxwqzu,wdkxwqgwumohw gwjkwhqg
njjtjmh,wdkxwkjhw gwomcyczogx,wdkxwkjhwnghwKdhwoggwqzuwjygkwhqgu;wdkx
egwejmnxwymhwoudnnwhqzkaowzkwmksng'owsjdh-yjstghowdkxwqgwumohwohgdnwhqgu
jmh;wdkxwegwejmnxwhzgwhqzkaowhjwdmkh'owdycjk-ohczkaowjcwymhwhqguwzkwqgc
dycjk-yjstgh,wzrwegwajhwdwsqdksg;wdkxwhjnxwqzuweqdhwhqgbwejmnxw gwdkx
eqdhwhqgbwedowrjcpw Dkxwhjnxwqzuwqjewhjwtggywdw.jmckdnwjkwhqgwoqzchwezhq
qzow njjx,wdkxwdnnwhqdhpwQgwhjnxwqzuwgigcbhqzkapw .zuwqgwsjmnxk'hwogg
kjwogkogwzkwhqgwujohwjrwzh,w mhwqgwdnnjegxwegwedoweqzhgwrjntowdkxwtkjegx
 ghhgcwhqdkwqzu;wojwqgwedowodhzorzgx,wdkxwodzxwqgwejmnxwxjwzhwdnnw.moh
dowHjuwodzxp

.zuwqdxwyngkhbwsjck-sj wyzygowdkxwhj dssj;wojwegwqdxwdwczaqhwxjekwajjx
ojszd ngwhzug;whqgkwegwscdengxwjmhwhqcjmaqwhqgwqjng,wdkxwojwqjugwhj
 gx,wezhqwqdkxowhqdhwnjjtgxwnztgwhqgb'xw ggkwsqdegxpw Hjuwedowzkwqzaq
oyzczhopwQgwodzxwzhwedowhqgw gohwrmkwqgwgigcwqdxwzkwqzownzrg,wdkxwhqg
ujohwzkhgnngshmcdn;wdkxwodzxwzrwqgwjknbwsjmnxwoggwqzowedbwhjwzhwegwejmnx
tggywzhwmywdnnwhqgwcgohwjrwjmcwnzigowdkxwngdigw.zuwhjwjmcwsqznxcgkwhj
aghwjmh;wrjcwqgw gnzgigxw.zuwejmnxwsjugwhjwnztgwzhw ghhgcwdkxw ghhgcwhqg
ujcgwqgwajhwmogxwhjwzhpw Qgwodzxwhqdhwzkwhqdhwedbwzhwsjmnxw gwohcmkawjmh
hjwdowumsqwdowgzaqhbwbgdc,wdkxwejmnxw gwhqgw gohwhzugwjkwcgsjcxpw Dkxwqg
odzxwzhwejmnxwudtgwmowdnnwsgng cdhgxwhqdhwqdxwdwqdkxwzkwzhp

Zkwhqgwujckzkawegwegkhwjmhwhjwhqgwejjxyzngwdkxwsqjyygxwmywhqgw cdoo
sdkxngohzstwzkhjwqdkxbwozlgo,wdkxwHjuwymhwhqguwdkxwhqgwygehgcwoyjjkwzk
qzowyjstghpw Hqgkwegwegkhwhjwhqgwkzaagcwsd zko,wdkxweqzngwZwajhwKdh'o
kjhzsgwjrr,wHjuwoqjigxwdwyzgsgwjrwsdkxngohzstwzkhjwhqgwuzxxngwjrwd
sjck-yjkgwhqdhwedowzkw.zu'owydk,wdkxwegwegkhwdnjkawezhqwKdhwhjwoggwqje
zhwejmnxwejct,wdkxwzhw.mohwejctgxwkj ng;weqgkw.zuw zhwzkhjwzhwzhwujoh
udoqgxwdnnwqzowhgghqwjmh;wdkxwhqgcgwedck'hwgigcwdkbhqzkawsjmnxwdwejctgx
 ghhgcpwHjuwodzxwojwqzuognrpw.zuwqgwkgigcwnghwjkw mhweqdhwzhwedowjknb
.mohwdwyzgsgwjrwcjstwjcwojughqzkawnztgwhqdhwhqdh'owdnedbowaghhzkawzkhj
 cgdx,wbjmwtkje;w mhwdrhgcwhqdhwqgwkgigcw zhwzkhjwkjhqzkaw mhweqdhwqg
.d  gxwqzowrjctwzkhjwzhwzkwhqcggwjcwrjmcwyndsgowrzcohp

Dkxweqznohwegwedowd-ohdkxzkawhqgcgwzkwhqgwxzuuzoqwnzaqh,wqgcgwsjugowd
sjmyngwjrwhqgwqjmkxow mnazkawzkwrcjuwmkxgcw.zu'ow gx;wdkxwhqgbwtgyhwjk
yznzkawzkwhznnwhqgcgwedowgngigkwjrwhqgu,wdkxwhqgcgwedck'hwqdcxnbwcjju
zkwhqgcgwhjwaghwbjmcw cgdhqpw  bw.zkao,wegwrjcajhwhjwrdohgkwhqdhwngdk-hj
xjjc!w HqgwkzaagcwKdhwqgwjknbw.mohwqjnngcgxw“Ezhsqgo”wjksg,wdkxwtggngx
jigcwjkwhjwhqgwrnjjcwdujkaohwhqgwxjao,wdkxw gamkwhjwacjdkwnztgwqgwedo
xbzkapw Hjuw.gctgxwhqgwxjjcwjygkwdkxwrnmkawjmhwdwond wjrw.zu'owugdh,
dkxwhqgwxjaowegkhwrjcwzh,wdkxwzkwhejwogsjkxowqgwedowjmhwqzuognrwdkxw dst
dadzkwdkxwoqmhwhqgwxjjc,wdkxwZwtkjegxwqg'xwrzfgxwhqgwjhqgcwxjjcwhjjp
Hqgkwqgwegkhwhjwejctwjkwhqgwkzaagc,wsjdfzkawqzuwdkxwyghhzkawqzu,wdkx
dotzkawqzuwzrwqg'xw ggkwzudazkzkawqgwodewojughqzkawdadzkpw Qgwcdzogxwmy,
dkxw nzktgxwqzowgbgowdcjmkx,wdkxwodbo:

“UdcowOzx,wbjm'nnwodbwZ'owdwrjjn,w mhwzrwZwxzxk'hw 'nzgigwZwoggwujohwd
uznnzjkwxjao,wgcwxgizno,wgcwojug'k,wZwezoqhwZwudbwxzgwczaqhwqgdqwzkwxgog
hcdstopw Zwxzx,wujo'woqjnbpw UdcowOzx,wZw_rgnh_wmu--Zw_rgnh_wmu,wodq;wxgb
edowdnnwjigcwugpw Xdxwrghsqwzh,wZw.zo'wezoqhwZwsjmnxwazhwubwqdk'owjkwjkg
gcwxguwezhsqgow.zo'wemkoh--jk'bw.zo'wemkoh--zh'owdnnwZ'xwdohpw  mhwujo'nb
Zwezoqhwxgb'xwnguugw'njkg,wZwxjgop”

Hjuwodbo:

“Egnn,wZwhgnnwbjmweqdhwZwhqzktpw Eqdhwudtgowhqguwsjugwqgcgw.mohwdhwhqzo
cmkdedbwkzaagc'ow cgdtrdoh-hzug?w Zh'ow gsdmogwhqgb'cgwqmkacb;whqdh'o
hqgwcgdojkpw Bjmwudtgwhqguwdwezhsqwyzg;whqdh'owhqgwhqzkawrjcw_bjm_whj
xjp”

“ mhwubwndk',wUdcowOzx,wqje'owZwaebkgwhjwudtgw'uwdwezhsqwyzg?w Zwxjdk'
tkjewqjewhjwudtgwzhpw Zwqdzk'hwgigcwqgdckwgcwozsqwdwhqzkaw 'rj'p”

“Egnn,whqgk,wZ'nnwqdigwhjwudtgwzhwubognrp”

“Eznnwbjmwxjwzh,wqjkgb?--eznnwbjm?w Z'nnwemooqmywxgwacjmk'wmkx'wbj'wrjjh,
Zweznn!”

“Dnnwczaqh,wZ'nnwxjwzh,woggzkawzh'owbjm,wdkxwbjm'igw ggkwajjxwhjwmowdkx
oqjegxwmowhqgwcmkdedbwkzaagcpw  mhwbjmwajhwhjw gwuzaqhbwsdcgrmnpw Eqgk
egwsjugwdcjmkx,wbjmwhmckwbjmcw dst;wdkxwhqgkweqdhgigcweg'igwymhwzkwhqg
ydk,wxjk'hwbjmwnghwjkwbjmwoggwzhwdhwdnnpw Dkxwxjk'hwbjmwnjjtweqgkw.zu
mknjdxowhqgwydk--ojughqzkawuzaqhwqdyygk,wZwxjk'hwtkjeweqdhpw Dkxwd jig
dnn,wxjk'hwbjmw_qdkxng_whqgwezhsq-hqzkaop”

“_Qdkkgnw'U_,wUdcowOzx?w Eqdhw_zo_wbjmwd-hdntzk'w' jmh?w Zwejmnxk'
ndbwxgwegzaqhwgcwubwrzkagcwjkwmu,wkjhwr'cwhgkwqmkx'xwhqjmo'kw znnzjk
xjnndco,wZwejmnxk'hp”




SQDYHGCwFFFIZZp

HQDHwedowdnnwrzfgxpw Ojwhqgkwegwegkhwdedbwdkxwegkhwhjwhqgwcm  dag-yzng
zkwhqgw dstwbdcx,weqgcgwhqgbwtggywhqgwjnxw jjho,wdkxwcdao,wdkxwyzgsgo
jrw jhhngo,wdkxwejcg-jmhwhzkwhqzkao,wdkxwdnnwomsqwhcmst,wdkxwoscdhsqgx
dcjmkxwdkxwrjmkxwdkwjnxwhzkwedoqydk,wdkxwohjyygxwmywhqgwqjngowdowegnnwdo
egwsjmnx,whjw dtgwhqgwyzgwzk,wdkxwhjjtwzhwxjekwsgnndcwdkxwohjngwzhwrmnn
jrwrnjmcwdkxwohdchgxwrjcw cgdtrdoh,wdkxwrjmkxwdwsjmyngwjrwoqzkang-kdzno
hqdhwHjuwodzxwejmnxw gwqdkxbwrjcwdwyczojkgcwhjwoscd  ngwqzowkdugwdkx
ojccjeowjkwhqgwxmkagjkwednnowezhq,wdkxwxcjyygxwjkgwjrwhqguwzkwDmkh
Odnnb'owdycjk-yjstghweqzsqwedowqdkazkawjkwdwsqdzc,wdkxwh'jhqgcwegwohmst
zkwhqgw dkxwjrwMksngwOzndo'owqdh,weqzsqwedowjkwhqgw mcgdm,w gsdmogweg
qgdcxwhqgwsqznxcgkwodbwhqgzcwydwdkxwudwedowajzkawhjwhqgwcmkdedbwkzaagc'o
qjmogwhqzowujckzka,wdkxwhqgkwegkhwhjw cgdtrdoh,wdkxwHjuwxcjyygxwhqg
ygehgcwoyjjkwzkwMksngwOzndo'owsjdh-yjstgh,wdkxwDmkhwOdnnbwedok'hwsjug
bgh,wojwegwqdxwhjwedzhwdwnzhhngweqzngp

Dkxweqgkwoqgwsjugwoqgwedowqjhwdkxwcgxwdkxwscjoo,wdkxwsjmnxk'hwqdcxnb
edzhwrjcwhqgw ngoozka;wdkxwhqgkwoqgwegkhwhjwonmzszkawjmhwsjrrggwezhqwjkg
qdkxwdkxwscdstzkawhqgwqdkxzgohwsqznx'owqgdxwezhqwqgcwhqzu ngwezhqwhqg
jhqgc,wdkxwodbo:

“Z'igwqmkhgxwqzaqwdkxwZ'igwqmkhgxwnje,wdkxwzhwxjgow gdhwdnnweqdhw_qdo_
 gsjugwjrwbjmcwjhqgcwoqzchp”

Ubwqgdchwrgnnwxjekwdujkaohwubwnmkaowdkxwnzigcowdkxwhqzkao,wdkxwdwqdcx
yzgsgwjrwsjck-scmohwohdchgxwxjekwubwhqcjdhwdrhgcwzhwdkxwajhwughwjkwhqg
cjdxwezhqwdwsjmaq,wdkxwedowoqjhwdscjoowhqgwhd ng,wdkxwhjjtwjkgwjrwhqg
sqznxcgkwzkwhqgwgbgwdkxwsmcngxwqzuwmywnztgwdwrzoqzka-ejcu,wdkxwnghwdwscb
jmhwjrwqzuwhqgwozlgwjrwdwedceqjjy,wdkxwHjuwqgwhmckgxwtzkxgcw nmgwdcjmkx
hqgwaznno,wdkxwzhwdnnwdujmkhgxwhjwdwsjkozxgcd ngwohdhgwjrwhqzkaowrjc
d jmhwdwvmdchgcwjrwdwuzkmhgwjcwdowumsqwdowhqdh,wdkxwZwejmnxwdwojnxwjmh
rjcwqdnrwyczsgwzrwhqgcgwedowdw zxxgcpw  mhwdrhgcwhqdhwegwedowdnnwczaqh
dadzk--zhwedowhqgwomxxgkwomcyczogwjrwzhwhqdhwtkjstgxwmowojwtzkxwjrwsjnxp
MksngwOzndowqgwodbo:

“Zh'owujohwmksjuujkwsmczjmo,wZwsdk'hwmkxgcohdkxwzhpw Zwtkjewygcrgshnb
egnnwZwhjjtwzhw_jrr_,w gsdmog--”

“ gsdmogwbjmwqdzk'hwajhw mhwjkgw_jk_pw .mohw_nzohgk_wdhwhqgwudk!w Zwtkje
bjmwhjjtwzhwjrr,wdkxwtkjewzhw bwdw ghhgcwedbwhqdkwbjmcwejjn-aghqgczka
ugujcb,whjj,w gsdmogwzhwedowjkwhqgwsnj'o-nzkgwbgohgcxdb--Zwoggwzhwhqgcg
ubognrpw mhwzh'owajkg,whqdh'owhqgwnjkawdkxwhqgwoqjchwjrwzh,wdkxwbjm'nn
.mohwqdigwhjwsqdkagwhjwdwcgxwrndkk'nwjkgwhznnwZwsdkwaghwhzugwhjwudtgwd
kgewjkgpwDkxwzhw'nnw gwhqgwhqzcxwZ'igwudxgwzkwhejwbgdcopw Zhw.mohwtggyo
dw jxbwjkwhqgw.muywhjwtggywbjmwzkwoqzcho;wdkxweqdhgigcwbjmwxjwudkdagwhj
_xj_wezhqw'uwdnnwzowujcg'kwZwsdkwudtgwjmhpw Dw jxbw'xwhqzktwbjmw_ejmnx_
ngdckwhjwhdtgwojugwojchwjrwsdcgwjrw'guwdhwbjmcwhzugwjrwnzrgp”

“Zwtkjewzh,wOdnnb,wdkxwZwxjwhcbwdnnwZwsdkpw  mhwzhwjmaqhk'hwhjw g
dnhjaghqgcwubwrdmnh,w gsdmog,wbjmwtkje,wZwxjk'hwoggwhqguwkjcwqdig
kjhqzkawhjwxjwezhqwhqguwgfsgyhweqgkwhqgb'cgwjkwug;wdkxwZwxjk'hw gnzgig
Z'igwgigcwnjohwjkgwjrwhqguw_jrr_wjrwugp”

“Egnn,wzhwdzk'hw_bjmc_wrdmnhwzrwbjmwqdigk'h,wOzndo;wbjm'xwdwxjkgwzh
zrwbjmwsjmnx,wZwcgstjkpw Dkxwhqgwoqzchwdzk'hwdnnwhqdh'owajkg,wkmhqgcp
 Hqgc'owdwoyjjkwajkg;wdkxw_hqdh_wdzk'hwdnnpw Hqgcgwedowhgk,wdkxwkje
hqgc'owjknbwkzkgpwHqgwsdnrwajhwhqgwoqzch,wZwcgstjk,w mhwhqgwsdnrwkgigc
hjjtwhqgwoyjjk,w_hqdh'o_wsgchdzkp”

“Eqb,weqdhwgnogwzowajkg,wOdnnb?”

“Hqgc'owozfw_sdkxngo_wajkg--hqdh'oweqdhpw Hqgwcdhowsjmnxwdwajhwhqg
sdkxngo,wdkxwZwcgstjkwhqgbwxzx;wZwejkxgcwhqgbwxjk'hwedntwjrrwezhqwhqg
eqjngwyndsg,whqgwedbwbjm'cgwdnedbowajzkawhjwohjywhqgzcwqjngowdkxwxjk'h
xjwzh;wdkxwzrwhqgbwedck'hwrjjnowhqgb'xwonggywzkwbjmcwqdzc,wOzndo--_bjm'x_
kgigcwrzkxwzhwjmh;w mhwbjmwsdk'hwndbwhqgw_oyjjk_wjkwhqgwcdho,wdkxwhqdhwZ
tkjep”

“Egnn,wOdnnb,wZ'uwzkwrdmnh,wdkxwZwdstkjengxagwzh;wZ'igw ggkwcguzoo;w mh
Zwejk'hwnghwhj-ujccjewajw bwezhqjmhwohjyyzkawmywhqguwqjngop”

“Jq,wZwejmnxk'hwqmccb;wkgfhwbgdcw'nnwxjpw UdhznxdwDkagnzkdwDcduzkhd
_Yqgnyo!_”

Eqdstwsjugowhqgwhqzu ng,wdkxwhqgwsqznxwokdhsqgowqgcwsndeowjmhwjrwhqg
omadc- jenwezhqjmhwrjjnzkawdcjmkxwdkbpw .mohwhqgkwhqgwkzaagcwejudkwohgyo
jkwhjwhqgwydoodag,wdkxwodbo:

“Uzoomo,wxgb'owdwoqgghwajkgp”

“Dw_oqggh_wajkg!w Egnn,wrjcwhqgwndkx'owodtg!”

“Z'nnwohjywmywhqguwqjngowhj-xdb,”wodbowMksngwOzndo,wnjjtzkawojccjermnp

“Jq,w_xj_woqghwmy!--o'yjogwhqgwcdhowhjjtwhqgw_oqggh_?w _eqgcg'o_wzhwajkg,
Nzlg?”

“SndqwhjwajjxkgoowZwqdzk'hwkjwkjhzjk,wUzoo'wOdnnbpw Oqgwemlwjkwxg
snj'onzkgwbzohzxxb,w mhwoqgwxjkgwajkg:w oqgwdzk'wxdqwkjwuj'wkjep”

“Zwcgstjkwhqgwejcnxw_zo_wsjuzkawhjwdkwgkxpw Zw_kgigc_woggwhqgw gdhwjrwzh
zkwdnnwubw jckwxdbopw Dwoqzch,wdkxwdwoqggh,wdkxwdwoyjjk,wdkxwozfwsdk--”

“Uzoomo,”wsjugowdwbjmkawbdnngcwegksq,w“xgb'owdw cdoowsdkkgnohzst
uzoo'kp”

“Sngcwjmhwrcjuwqgcg,wbjmwqmoob,wgcwZ'nnwhdtgwdwotznnghwhjwbg!”

Egnn,woqgwedow.mohwd- znzkapw Zw gamkwhjwndbwrjcwdwsqdksg;wZwcgstjkgx
Zwejmnxwokgdtwjmhwdkxwajwrjcwhqgwejjxowhznnwhqgwegdhqgcwujxgcdhgxpw Oqg
tgyhwd-cdazkawczaqhwdnjka,wcmkkzkawqgcwzkomccgshzjkwdnnw bwqgcognr,wdkx
gigcb jxbwgnogwuzaqhbwuggtwdkxwvmzgh;wdkxwdhwndohwMksngwOzndo,wnjjtzka
tzkxwjrwrjjnzoq,wrzoqgowmywhqdhwoyjjkwjmhwjrwqzowyjstghpw Oqgwohjyygx,
ezhqwqgcwujmhqwjygkwdkxwqgcwqdkxowmy;wdkxwdowrjcwug,wZwezoqgxwZwedowzk
.gcmonguwjcwojugeqgcgopw mhwkjhwnjka,w gsdmogwoqgwodbo:

“Zh'ow_.moh_wdowZwgfygshgxpw Ojwbjmwqdxwzhwzkwbjmcwyjstghwdnnwhqgwhzug;
dkxwnztgwdowkjhwbjm'igwajhwhqgwjhqgcwhqzkaowhqgcg,whjjpw Qje'xwzhwagh
hqgcg?”

“Zwcggnbwxjk'hwtkje,wOdnnb,”wqgwodbo,wtzkxwjrwdyjnjazlzka,w“jcwbjmwtkje
Zwejmnxwhgnnpw Zwedowd-ohmxbzkawjigcwubwhgfhwzkwDshowOgigkhggkw grjcg
 cgdtrdoh,wdkxwZwcgstjkwZwymhwzhwzkwhqgcg,wkjhwkjhzszka,wugdkzkawhjwymh
ubwHgohdugkhwzk,wdkxwzhwumohw gwoj,w gsdmogwubwHgohdugkhwdzk'hwzk;w mh
Z'nnwajwdkxwogg;wdkxwzrwhqgwHgohdugkhwzoweqgcgwZwqdxwzh,wZ'nnwtkjewZ
xzxk'hwymhwzhwzk,wdkxwhqdhweznnwoqjewhqdhwZwndzxwhqgwHgohdugkhwxjekwdkx
hjjtwmywhqgwoyjjk,wdkx--”

“Jq,wrjcwhqgwndkx'owodtg!w Azigwdw jxbwdwcgoh!w Ajw'njkawkje,whqgweqjng
tzhwdkxw znzkawjrwbg;wdkxwxjk'hwsjugwkzaqwugwdadzkwhznnwZ'igwajhw dstwub
ygdsgwjrwuzkxp”

Z'Xwdwqgdcxwqgcwzrwoqg'xwdwodzxwzhwhjwqgcognr,wnghwdnjkgwoygdtzkawzh
jmh;wdkxwZ'xwdwajhwmywdkxwj gbgxwqgcwzrwZ'xwdw ggkwxgdxpw Dowegwedo
ydoozkawhqcjmaqwhqgwoghhzka-cjjuwhqgwjnxwudkwqgwhjjtwmywqzowqdh,wdkxwhqg
oqzkang-kdznwrgnnwjmhwjkwhqgwrnjjc,wdkxwqgw.mohwugcgnbwyzstgxwzhwmywdkx
ndzxwzhwjkwhqgwudkhgn-oqgnr,wdkxwkgigcwodzxwkjhqzka,wdkxwegkhwjmhpw Hju
oggwqzuwxjwzh,wdkxwcgugu gcgxwd jmhwhqgwoyjjk,wdkxwodbo:

“Egnn,wzhwdzk'hwkjwmogwhjwogkxwhqzkaow bw_qzu_wkjwujcg,wqgwdzk'h
cgnzd ngp”wHqgkwqgwodbo:ww“ mhwqgwxjkgwmowdwajjxwhmckwezhqwhqgwoyjjk,
dkbedb,wezhqjmhwtkjezkawzh,wdkxwojweg'nnwajwdkxwxjwqzuwjkgwezhqjmhw_qzu_
tkjezkawzh--ohjywmywqzowcdh-qjngop”

Hqgcgwedowdwkj ngwajjxwnjhwjrwhqguwxjekwsgnndc,wdkxwzhwhjjtwmowdweqjng
qjmc,w mhwegwxjkgwhqgw.j whzaqhwdkxwajjxwdkxwoqzyoqdygpw Hqgkwegwqgdcx
ohgyowjkwhqgwohdzco,wdkxw njegxwjmhwjmcwnzaqhwdkxwqzx;wdkxwqgcgwsjugo
hqgwjnxwudk,wezhqwdwsdkxngwzkwjkgwqdkxwdkxwdw mkxngwjrwohmrrwzkwh'jhqgc,
njjtzkawdowd ogkh-uzkxgxwdowbgdcw grjcgwndohpw Qgwegkhwdwujjkzkawdcjmkx,
rzcohwhjwjkgwcdh-qjngwdkxwhqgkwdkjhqgc,whznnwqg'xw ggkwhjwhqguwdnnp
 Hqgkwqgwohjjxwd jmhwrzigwuzkmhgo,wyzstzkawhdnnje-xczywjrrwjrwqzowsdkxng
dkxwhqzktzkapw Hqgkwqgwhmckowjrrwonjewdkxwxcgdubwhjedcxowhqgwohdzco,
odbzka:

“Egnn,wrjcwhqgwnzrgwjrwugwZwsdk'hwcgugu gcweqgkwZwxjkgwzhpw Zwsjmnx
oqjewqgcwkjewhqdhwZwedck'hwhjw ndugwjkwdssjmkhwjrwhqgwcdhopw  mhwkgigc
uzkx--nghwzhwajpw Zwcgstjkwzhwejmnxk'hwxjwkjwajjxp”

Dkxwojwqgwegkhwjkwd-umu nzkawmywohdzco,wdkxwhqgkwegwngrhpw Qgwedowd
uzaqhbwkzsgwjnxwudkpw Dkxwdnedbowzop

Hjuwedowdwajjxwxgdnw jhqgcgxwd jmhweqdhwhjwxjwrjcwdwoyjjk,w mhwqgwodzx
eg'xwajhwhjwqdigwzh;wojwqgwhjjtwdwhqzktpw Eqgkwqgwqdxwszyqgcgxwzhwjmh
qgwhjnxwugwqjewegwedowhjwxj;whqgkwegwegkhwdkxwedzhgxwdcjmkxwhqg
oyjjk- dotghwhznnwegwoggwDmkhwOdnnbwsjuzka,wdkxwhqgkwHjuwegkhwhj
sjmkhzkawhqgwoyjjkowdkxwndbzkawhqguwjmhwhjwjkgwozxg,wdkxwZwonzxwjkgwjr
hqguwmywubwonggig,wdkxwHjuwodbo:

“Eqb,wDmkhwOdnnb,whqgcgwdzk'hw mhwkzkgwoyjjkow_bgh_p”

Oqgwodbo:

“Ajw'njkawhjwbjmcwyndb,wdkxwxjk'hw jhqgcwugpw Zwtkjew ghhgc,wZwsjmkhgx
'uwubognrp”

“Egnn,wZ'igwsjmkhgxwhqguwhezsg,wDmkhb,wdkxwZwsdk'hwudtgw mhwkzkgp”

Oqgwnjjtgxwjmhwjrwdnnwydhzgksg,w mhwjrwsjmcogwoqgwsjugwhjwsjmkh--dkb jxb
ejmnxp

“Zwxgsndcgwhjwacdszjmowhqgc'w_dzk'h_w mhwkzkg!”woqgwodbopww“Eqb,weqdhwzk
hqgwejcnx--yndamgw_hdtg_whqgwhqzkao,wZ'nnwsjmkhw'uwdadzkp”

OjwZwonzyygxw dstwhqgwjkgwZwqdx,wdkxweqgkwoqgwajhwxjkgwsjmkhzka,woqg
odbo:

“Qdkawhqgwhcjm ngojugwcm  dag,whqgc'ow_hgk_wkje!”wdkxwoqgwnjjtgxwqmrrb
dkxw jhqgcgxw jhqpw  mhwHjuwodbo:

“Eqb,wDmkhb,wZwxjk'hwhqzktwhqgcg'owhgkp”

“Bjmwkmuotmnn,wxzxk'hwbjmwoggwugw_sjmkhw'u?_”

“Zwtkje,w mh--”

“Egnn,wZ'nnwsjmkhw'uw_dadzk_p”

OjwZwoujmsqgxwjkg,wdkxwhqgbwsjugwjmhwkzkg,wodugwdowhqgwjhqgcwhzugp
 Egnn,woqgw_edo_wzkwdwhgdczkawedb--.mohwd-hcgu nzkawdnnwjigc,woqgwedowoj
udxpw  mhwoqgwsjmkhgxwdkxwsjmkhgxwhznnwoqgwajhwhqdhwdxxngxwoqg'xwohdch
hjwsjmkhwzkwhqgw dotghwrjcwdwoyjjkwojughzugo;wdkxwoj,whqcggwhzugowhqgb
sjugwjmhwczaqh,wdkxwhqcggwhzugowhqgbwsjugwjmhwecjkapw Hqgkwoqgwacd  gx
mywhqgw dotghwdkxwonduugxwzhwdscjoowhqgwqjmogwdkxwtkjstgxwhqgwsdh
adnngb-egoh;wdkxwoqgwodzxwsng'cwjmhwdkxwnghwqgcwqdigwojugwygdsg,wdkxwzr
egwsjugw jhqgczkawdcjmkxwqgcwdadzkw ghezfhwhqdhwdkxwxzkkgcwoqg'xwotzk
mopw Ojwegwqdxwhqgwjxxwoyjjk,wdkxwxcjyygxwzhwzkwqgcwdycjk-yjstghweqznoh
oqgwedowd-azizkawmowjmcwodznzkawjcxgco,wdkxw.zuwajhwzhwdnnwczaqh,wdnjka
ezhqwqgcwoqzkangwkdzn,w grjcgwkjjkpw Egwedowigcbwegnnwodhzorzgxwezhq
hqzow mozkgoo,wdkxwHjuwdnnjegxwzhwedowejchqwhezsgwhqgwhcjm ngwzhwhjjt,
 gsdmogwqgwodzxw_kje_woqgwsjmnxk'hwgigcwsjmkhwhqguwoyjjkowhezsgwdnztg
dadzkwhjwodigwqgcwnzrg;wdkxwejmnxk'hw gnzgigwoqg'xwsjmkhgxwhqguwczaqhwzr
oqgw_xzx_;wdkxwodzxwhqdhwdrhgcwoqg'xwd jmhwsjmkhgxwqgcwqgdxwjrrwrjcwhqg
kgfhwhqcggwxdbowqgw.mxagxwoqg'xwazigwzhwmywdkxwjrrgcwhjwtznnwdkb jxb
hqdhwedkhgxwqgcwhjwgigcwsjmkhwhqguwdkbwujcgp

Ojwegwymhwhqgwoqgghw dstwjkwhqgwnzkgwhqdhwkzaqh,wdkxwohjngwjkgwjmhwjr
qgcwsnjogh;wdkxwtgyhwjkwymhhzkawzhw dstwdkxwohgdnzkawzhwdadzkwrjcwd
sjmyngwjrwxdbowhznnwoqgwxzxk'hwtkjewqjewudkbwoqgghowoqgwqdxwdkbwujcg,
dkxwoqgwxzxk'hw_sdcg_,wdkxwedck'hwd-ajzkawhjw mnnbcdawhqgwcgohwjrwqgc
ojmnwjmhwd jmhwzh,wdkxwejmnxk'hwsjmkhwhqguwdadzkwkjhwhjwodigwqgcwnzrg;
oqgwxcmhqgcwxzgwrzcohp

Ojwegwedowdnnwczaqhwkje,wdowhjwhqgwoqzchwdkxwhqgwoqgghwdkxwhqgwoyjjk
dkxwhqgwsdkxngo,w bwhqgwqgnywjrwhqgwsdnrwdkxwhqgwcdhowdkxwhqgwuzfgx-my
sjmkhzka;wdkxwdowhjwhqgwsdkxngohzst,wzhwedck'hwkjwsjkogvmgksg,wzhwejmnx
 njewjigcw bwdkxw bp

 mhwhqdhwyzgwedowdw.j ;wegwqdxwkjwgkxwjrwhcjm ngwezhqwhqdhwyzgpw Eg
rzfgxwzhwmywdedbwxjekwzkwhqgwejjxo,wdkxwsjjtgxwzhwhqgcg;wdkxwegwajhwzh
xjkgwdhwndoh,wdkxwigcbwodhzordshjcb,whjj;w mhwkjhwdnnwzkwjkgwxdb;wdkxweg
qdxwhjwmogwmywhqcggwedoq-ydkowrmnnwjrwrnjmcw grjcgwegwajhwhqcjmaq,wdkx
egwajhw mckhwycghhbwumsqwdnnwjigc,wzkwyndsgo,wdkxwgbgowymhwjmhwezhq
hqgwoujtg;w gsdmog,wbjmwogg,wegwxzxk'hwedkhwkjhqzkaw mhwdwscmoh,wdkxweg
sjmnxk'hwycjywzhwmywczaqh,wdkxwoqgwejmnxwdnedbowsdigwzkpw  mhwjrwsjmcog
egwhqjmaqhwjrwhqgwczaqhwedbwdhwndoh--eqzsqwedowhjwsjjtwhqgwndxxgc,whjj,
zkwhqgwyzgpw Ojwhqgkwegwndzxwzkwezhqw.zuwhqgwogsjkxwkzaqh,wdkxwhjcg
mywhqgwoqgghwdnnwzkwnzhhngwohczkaowdkxwhezohgxwhqguwhjaghqgc,wdkxwnjka
 grjcgwxdbnzaqhwegwqdxwdwnjignbwcjygwhqdhwbjmwsjmnxwdwqmkawdwygcojk
ezhqpw Egwnghwjkwzhwhjjtwkzkgwujkhqowhjwudtgwzhp

Dkxwzkwhqgwrjcgkjjkwegwhjjtwzhwxjekwhjwhqgwejjxo,w mhwzhwejmnxk'hwaj
zkhjwhqgwyzgpw  gzkawudxgwjrwdweqjngwoqggh,whqdhwedb,whqgcgwedowcjyg
gkjmaqwrjcwrjchbwyzgowzrweg'xwdwedkhgxwhqgu,wdkxwyngkhbwngrhwjigc
rjcwojmy,wjcwodmodag,wjcwdkbhqzkawbjmwsqjjogpw Egwsjmnxwdwqdxwdweqjng
xzkkgcp

 mhwegwxzxk'hwkggxwzhpw Dnnwegwkggxgxwedow.mohwgkjmaqwrjcwhqgwyzg,wdkx
ojwegwhqcjegxwhqgwcgohwdedbpw Egwxzxk'hwsjjtwkjkgwjrwhqgwyzgowzkwhqg
edoq-ydk--drcdzxwhqgwojnxgcwejmnxwugnh;w mhwMksngwOzndowqgwqdxwdwkj ng
 cdoowedcuzka-ydkweqzsqwqgwhqjmaqhwsjkozxgcd ngwjr,w gsdmogwzhw gnjkagx
hjwjkgwjrwqzowdksgohgcowezhqwdwnjkawejjxgkwqdkxngwhqdhwsjugwjigcwrcju
GkandkxwezhqwEznnzduwhqgwSjkvmgcjcwzkwhqgwUdbrnjegcwjcwjkgwjrwhqguwgdcnb
oqzyowdkxwedowqzxwdedbwmywadccghwezhqwdwnjhwjrwjhqgcwjnxwyjhowdkxwhqzkao
hqdhwedowidnmd ng,wkjhwjkwdssjmkhwjrw gzkawdkbwdssjmkh,w gsdmogwhqgb
edck'h,w mhwjkwdssjmkhwjrwhqguw gzkawcgnzsho,wbjmwtkje,wdkxwegwokdtgx
qgcwjmh,wyczidhg,wdkxwhjjtwqgcwxjekwhqgcg,w mhwoqgwrdzngxwjkwhqgwrzcoh
yzgo,w gsdmogwegwxzxk'hwtkjewqje,w mhwoqgwsjugwmywouznzkawjkwhqgwndoh
jkgpw Egwhjjtwdkxwnzkgxwqgcwezhqwxjmaq,wdkxwoghwqgcwzkwhqgwsjdno,wdkx
njdxgxwqgcwmywezhqwcdawcjyg,wdkxwymhwjkwdwxjmaqwcjjr,wdkxwoqmhwxjekwhqg
nzx,wdkxwymhwqjhwgu gcowjkwhjy,wdkxwohjjxwjrrwrzigwrjjh,wezhqwhqgwnjka
qdkxng,wsjjnwdkxwsjurjchd ng,wdkxwzkwrzrhggkwuzkmhgowoqgwhmckgxwjmhwd
yzgwhqdhwedowdwodhzordshzjkwhjwnjjtwdhpw mhwhqgwygcojkwhqdhwghwzhwejmnx
edkhwhjwrghsqwdwsjmyngwjrwtdaowjrwhjjhqyzstowdnjka,wrjcwzrwhqdhwcjyg
ndxxgcwejmnxk'hwscduywqzuwxjekwhjw mozkgoowZwxjk'hwtkjewkjhqzkaweqdhwZ'u
hdntzkawd jmh,wdkxwndbwqzuwzkwgkjmaqwohjudsq-dsqgwhjwndohwqzuwhznnwkgfh
hzug,whjjp

Kdhwxzxk'hwnjjtweqgkwegwymhwhqgwezhsqwyzgwzkw.zu'owydk;wdkxwegwymhwhqg
hqcggwhzkwyndhgowzkwhqgw jhhjuwjrwhqgwydkwmkxgcwhqgwizhhngo;wdkxwojw.zu
ajhwgigcbhqzkawdnnwczaqh,wdkxwdowojjkwdowqgwedow bwqzuognrwqgw mohgx
zkhjwhqgwyzgwdkxwqzxwhqgwcjygwndxxgcwzkozxgwjrwqzowohcdewhzst,
dkxwoscdhsqgxwojugwudctowjkwdwhzkwyndhgwdkxwhqcjegxwzhwjmhwjrwhqg
ezkxje-qjngp




SQDYHGCwFFFIZZZp

UDTZKAwhqguwygkowedowdwxzohcgoozxwhjmaqw.j ,wdkxwojwedowhqgwode;wdkxw.zu
dnnjegxwhqgwzkosczyhzjkwedowajzkawhjw gwhqgwhjmaqgohwjrwdnnpw Hqdh'owhqg
jkgweqzsqwhqgwyczojkgcwqdowhjwoscd  ngwjkwhqgwednnpw  mhwqgwqdxwhjwqdig
zh;wHjuwodzxwqg'xw_ajh_whj;whqgcgwedck'hwkjwsdogwjrwdwohdhgwyczojkgcwkjh
oscd  nzkawqzowzkosczyhzjkwhjwngdigw gqzkx,wdkxwqzowsjdhwjrwdcuop

“NjjtwdhwNdxbw.dkgwAcgb,”wqgwodbo;w“njjtwdhwAznrjcxwXmxngb;wnjjtwdhwjnx
Kjchqmu gcndkx!w Eqb,wQmst,wo'yjogwzhw_zo_wsjkozxgc ngwhcjm ng?--eqdh
bjmwajzkawhjwxj?--qjewbjmwajzkawhjwaghwdcjmkxwzh?w .zu'ow_ajh_whjwxjwqzo
zkosczyhzjkwdkxwsjdhwjrwdcuopw Hqgbwdnnwxjp”

.zuwodbo:

“Eqb,wUdcowHju,wZwqdzk'hwajhwkjwsjdhwj'wdcu;wZwqdzk'hwajhwkmrrkw mhwxzoq
bgcwjngwoqzch,wgkwbjmwtkjeowZwajhwhjwtggywxgw.jmckdnwjkwxdhp”

“Jq,wbjmwxjk'hwmkxgcohdkx,w.zu;wdwsjdhwjrwdcuowzowigcbwxzrrgcgkhp”

“Egnn,”wZwodbo,w“.zu'owczaqh,wdkbedb,weqgkwqgwodbowqgwdzk'hwajhwkjwsjdh
jrwdcuo,w gsdmogwqgwqdzk'hp”

“ZwcgstjkwZwtkjegxwhqdh,”wHjuwodbo,w“ mhwbjmw ghwqg'nnwqdigwjkgw grjcg
qgwajgowjmhwjrwhqzo-- gsdmogwqg'owajzkawjmhw_czaqh_,wdkxwhqgcgwdzk'h
ajzkawhjw gwkjwrndeowzkwqzowcgsjcxp”

Ojweqznohwugwdkxw.zuwrzngxwdedbwdhwhqgwygkowjkwdw czst dhwdyzgsg,w.zu
d-udtzkawqzo'kwjmhwjrwhqgw cdoowdkxwZwudtzkawuzkgwjmhwjrwhqgwoyjjk,
Hjuwoghwhjwejctwhjwhqzktwjmhwhqgwsjdhwjrwdcuopw  bwdkxw bwqgwodzxwqg'x
ohcmstwojwudkbwajjxwjkgowqgwxzxk'hwqdcxnbwtkjeweqzsqwhjwhdtg,w mhwhqgcg
edowjkgweqzsqwqgwcgstjkgxwqg'xwxgszxgwjkpw Qgwodbo:

“Jkwhqgwosmhsqgjkweg'nnwqdigwdw gkxw_jc_wzkwhqgwxgfhgcw dog,wdwodnhzcg
_umccgb_wzkwhqgwrgoo,wezhqwdwxja,wsjmsqdkh,wrjcwsjuujkwsqdcag,wdkxwmkxgc
qzowrjjhwdwsqdzkwgu dhhngx,wrjcwondigcb,wezhqwdwsqgicjkw_igch_wzkwd
sqzgrwgkacdzngx,wdkxwhqcggwzkigshgxwnzkgowjkwdwrzgnxw_dlmcg_,wezhqwhqg
kju cznwyjzkhowcduydkhwjkwdwxdksghhgwzkxgkhgx;wscgoh,wdwcmkdedbwkzaagc,
_od ng_,wezhqwqzow mkxngwjigcwqzowoqjmnxgcwjkwdw dcwozkzohgc;wdkxwd
sjmyngwjrwamngowrjcwomyyjchgco,weqzsqwzowbjmwdkxwug;wujhhj,w_Udaazjcg
Rcghhd,wUzkjcgwJhhjp_w Ajhwzhwjmhwjrwdw jjt--ugdkowhqgwujcgwqdohgwhqg
ngoowoyggxp”

“Aggeqznnztzko,”wZwodbo,w“ mhweqdhwxjgowhqgwcgohwjrwzhwugdk?”

“Egwdzk'hwajhwkjwhzugwhjw jhqgcwjigcwhqdh,”wqgwodbo;w“egwajhwhjwxzawzk
nztgwdnnwazh-jmhp”

“Egnn,wdkbedb,”wZwodbo,w“eqdh'ow_ojug_wjrwzh?w Eqdh'owdwrgoo?”

“Dwrgoo--dwrgoowzo--_bjm_wxjk'hwkggxwhjwtkjeweqdhwdwrgoowzopw Z'nnwoqje
qzuwqjewhjwudtgwzhweqgkwqgwaghowhjwzhp”

“Oqmsto,wHju,”wZwodbo,w“Zwhqzktwbjmwuzaqhwhgnnwdwygcojkpw Eqdh'owdw dc
ozkzohgc?”

“Jq,wZwxjk'hwtkjepw  mhwqg'owajhwhjwqdigwzhpw Dnnwhqgwkj znzhbwxjgop”

Hqdhwedow.mohwqzowedbpw Zrwzhwxzxk'hwomzhwqzuwhjwgfyndzkwdwhqzkawhjwbjm,
qgwejmnxk'hwxjwzhpw Bjmwuzaqhwymuywdhwqzuwdweggt,wzhwejmnxk'hwudtgwkj
xzrrgcgksgp

Qg'xwajhwdnnwhqdhwsjdhwjrwdcuow mozkgoowrzfgx,wojwkjewqgwohdchgxwzkwhj
rzkzoqwmywhqgwcgohwjrwhqdhwydchwjrwhqgwejct,weqzsqwedowhjwyndkwjmhwd
ujmckrmnwzkosczyhzjk--odzxw.zuwajhwhjwqdigwjkg,wnztgwhqgbwdnnwxjkgpw Qg
udxgwmywdwnjh,wdkxwecjhgwhqguwjmhwjkwdwydygc,wdkxwcgdxwhqguwjrr,woj:

1pw Qgcgwdwsdyhzigwqgdchw mohgxpw2pw Qgcgwdwyjjcwyczojkgc,wrjcojjtw b
hqgwejcnxwdkxwrczgkxo,wrcghhgxwqzowojccjermnwnzrgpw3pw Qgcgwdwnjkgnb
qgdchw cjtg,wdkxwdwejckwoyzczhwegkhwhjwzhowcgoh,wdrhgcwhqzchb-ogigk
bgdcowjrwojnzhdcbwsdyhzizhbpw4pw Qgcg,wqjugngoowdkxwrczgkxngoo,wdrhgc
hqzchb-ogigkwbgdcowjrw zhhgcwsdyhzizhb,wygczoqgxwdwkj ngwohcdkagc,
kdhmcdnwojkwjrwNjmzowFZIp

Hju'owijzsgwhcgu ngxweqznohwqgwedowcgdxzkawhqgu,wdkxwqgwujohw cjtgwxjekp
Eqgkwqgwajhwxjkgwqgwsjmnxk'hwkjwedbwudtgwmywqzowuzkxweqzsqwjkgwrjcw.zu
hjwoscd  ngwjkwhjwhqgwednn,whqgbwedowdnnwojwajjx;w mhwdhwndohwqgwdnnjegx
qgwejmnxwnghwqzuwoscd  ngwhqguwdnnwjkpw .zuwodzxwzhwejmnxwhdtgwqzuwd
bgdcwhjwoscd  ngwomsqwdwnjhwjrwhcmstwjkwhjwhqgwnjaowezhqwdwkdzn,wdkxwqg
xzxk'hwtkjewqjewhjwudtgwnghhgco,w gozxgo;w mhwHjuwodzxwqgwejmnxw njst
hqguwjmhwrjcwqzu,wdkxwhqgkwqgwejmnxk'hwqdigwkjhqzkawhjwxjw mhw.moh
rjnnjewhqgwnzkgopw Hqgkwycghhbwojjkwqgwodbo:

“Sjugwhjwhqzkt,whqgwnjaowdzk'hwd-ajzkawhjwxj;whqgbwxjk'hwqdigwnjawednno
zkwdwxmkagjk:w egwajhwhjwxzawhqgwzkosczyhzjkowzkhjwdwcjstpw Eg'nnwrghsq
dwcjstp”

.zuwodzxwhqgwcjstwedowejcogwhqdkwhqgwnjao;wqgwodzxwzhwejmnxwhdtgwqzu
omsqwdwyzojkwnjkawhzugwhjwxzawhqguwzkhjwdwcjstwqgwejmnxk'hwgigcwaghwjmhp
  mhwHjuwodzxwqgwejmnxwnghwugwqgnywqzuwxjwzhpw Hqgkwqgwhjjtwdwnjjtwhj
oggwqjewugwdkxw.zuwedowaghhzkawdnjkawezhqwhqgwygkopw Zhwedowujohwygotb
hgxzjmowqdcxwejctwdkxwonje,wdkxwxzxk'hwazigwubwqdkxowkjwoqjewhjwagh
egnnwjrwhqgwojcgo,wdkxwegwxzxk'hwogguwhjwudtgwkjwqgdxedb,wqdcxnb;wojwHju
odbo:

“Zwtkjewqjewhjwrzfwzhpw Egwajhwhjwqdigwdwcjstwrjcwhqgwsjdhwjrwdcuowdkx
ujmckrmnwzkosczyhzjko,wdkxwegwsdkwtznnwhejw zcxowezhqwhqdhwodugwcjstp
Hqgcg'owdwadmxbw zawaczkxohjkgwxjekwdhwhqgwuznn,wdkxweg'nnwoujmsqwzh,
dkxwsdcigwhqgwhqzkaowjkwzh,wdkxwrzngwjmhwhqgwygkowdkxwhqgwodewjkwzh,
hjjp”

Zhwedck'hwkjwonjmsqwjrwdkwzxgd;wdkxwzhwedck'hwkjwonjmsqwjrwdwaczkxohjkg
kmhqgc;w mhwegwdnnjegxweg'xwhdstngwzhpw Zhwedck'hwvmzhgwuzxkzaqhwbgh,
ojwegwsngdcgxwjmhwrjcwhqgwuznn,wngdizkaw.zuwdhwejctpw Egwoujmsqgxwhqg
aczkxohjkg,wdkxwoghwjmhwhjwcjnnwqgcwqjug,w mhwzhwedowdwujohwkdhzjkwhjmaq
.j pwOjughzugo,wxjweqdhwegwsjmnx,wegwsjmnxk'hwtggywqgcwrcjuwrdnnzka
jigc,wdkxwoqgwsjugwuzaqhbwkgdcwudoqzkawmowgigcbwhzugpw Hjuwodzxwoqgwedo
ajzkawhjwaghwjkgwjrwmo,womcg,w grjcgwegwajhwhqcjmaqpw Egwajhwqgcwqdnr
edb;wdkxwhqgkwegwedowynmu wyndbgxwjmh,wdkxwujohwxcjekxgxwezhqwoegdhpw Eg
oggwzhwedck'hwkjwmog;wegwajhwhjwajwdkxwrghsqw.zupwOjwqgwcdzogxwmywqzo
 gxwdkxwonzxwhqgwsqdzkwjrrwjrwhqgw gx-nga,wdkxwecdyhwzhwcjmkxwdkxwcjmkx
qzowkgst,wdkxwegwscdengxwjmhwhqcjmaqwjmcwqjngwdkxwxjekwhqgcg,wdkxw.zu
dkxwugwndzxwzkhjwhqdhwaczkxohjkgwdkxwedntgxwqgcwdnjkawnztgwkjhqzka;wdkx
Hjuwomygczkhgkxgxpw Qgwsjmnxwjmh-omygczkhgkxwdkbw jbwZwgigcwoggpw Qg
tkjegxwqjewhjwxjwgigcbhqzkap

Jmcwqjngwedowycghhbw za,w mhwzhwedck'hw zawgkjmaqwhjwaghwhqgwaczkxohjkg
hqcjmaq;w mhw.zuwqgwhjjtwhqgwyzstwdkxwojjkwudxgwzhw zawgkjmaqpw HqgkwHju
udctgxwjmhwhqguwhqzkaowjkwzhwezhqwhqgwkdzn,wdkxwoghw.zuwhjwejctwjkwhqgu,
ezhqwhqgwkdznwrjcwdwsqzognwdkxwdkwzcjkw jnhwrcjuwhqgwcm  dagwzkwhqg
ngdk-hjwrjcwdwqduugc,wdkxwhjnxwqzuwhjwejctwhznnwhqgwcgohwjrwqzowsdkxng
vmzhwjkwqzu,wdkxwhqgkwqgwsjmnxwajwhjw gx,wdkxwqzxgwhqgwaczkxohjkgwmkxgc
qzowohcdewhzstwdkxwonggywjkwzhpw Hqgkwegwqgnygxwqzuwrzfwqzowsqdzkw dst
jkwhqgw gx-nga,wdkxwedowcgdxbwrjcw gxwjmcognigopw  mhwHjuwhqjmaqhwjr
ojughqzka,wdkxwodbo:

“Bjmwajhwdkbwoyzxgcowzkwqgcg,w.zu?”

“Kj,wodq,whqdktowhjwajjxkgoowZwqdzk'h,wUdcowHjup”

“Dnnwczaqh,weg'nnwaghwbjmwojugp”

“ mhw ngoowbjm,wqjkgb,wZwxjdk'w_edkh_wkjkgpw Z'owdrgdcxwmkwmupw Zw.zo'
'owojjkwqdigwcdhhngokdtgowdcjmk'p”

Hjuwhqjmaqhwdwuzkmhgwjcwhej,wdkxwodbo:

“Zh'owdwajjxwzxgdpw DkxwZwcgstjkwzh'ow ggkwxjkgpw Zhw_umoh_wdw ggkwxjkg;
zhwohdkxowhjwcgdojkpw Bgo,wzh'owdwyczugwajjxwzxgdpw Eqgcgwsjmnxwbjmwtggy
zh?”

“Tggyweqdh,wUdcowHju?”

“Eqb,wdwcdhhngokdtgp”

“Xgwajjxkgoowacdszjmowdnzig,wUdcowHju!w Eqb,wzrwxgbwedowdwcdhhngokdtgwhj
sjugwzkwqgdqwZ'xwhdtgwgkw mohwczaqhwjmhwhqjjwxdhwnjawednn,wZwejmnx,wezx
ubwqgdxp”

“Eqb,w.zu,wbjmwejmnxk'hw gwdrcdzxwjrwzhwdrhgcwdwnzhhngpw Bjmwsjmnxwhdug
zhp”

“_Hdug_wzh!”

“Bgo--gdobwgkjmaqpw Gigcbwdkzudnwzowacdhgrmnwrjcwtzkxkgoowdkxwyghhzka,
dkxwhqgbwejmnxk'hw_hqzkt_wjrwqmchzkawdwygcojkwhqdhwyghowhqgupw Dkbw jjt
eznnwhgnnwbjmwhqdhpw Bjmwhcb--hqdh'owdnnwZwdot;w.mohwhcbwrjcwhejwjcwhqcgg
xdbopwEqb,wbjmwsdkwaghwqzuwoj,wzkwdwnzhhngweqzng,whqdhwqg'nnwnjigwbjm;
dkxwonggywezhqwbjm;wdkxwejk'hwohdbwdedbwrcjuwbjmwdwuzkmhg;wdkxweznnwngh
bjmwecdywqzuwcjmkxwbjmcwkgstwdkxwymhwqzowqgdxwzkwbjmcwujmhqp”

“_Yngdog_,wUdcowHju--_xjdk_'whdntwoj!w Zwsdk'hw_ohdk_'wzh!w Qg'xw_ngh_
ugwoqjigwqzowqgdxwzkwubwujmr--rgcwdwrdijc,wqdzk'hwzh?w Zwndbwqg'xwedzhwd
yje'rmnwnjkawhzugw'rj'wZw_doh_wqzupw Gkwuj'wgkwxdh,wZwxjdk'w_edkh_wqzu
hjwonggywezxwugp”

“.zu,wxjk'hwdshwojwrjjnzoqpw Dwyczojkgc'ow_ajh_whjwqdigwojugwtzkxwjrwd
xmu wygh,wdkxwzrwdwcdhhngokdtgwqdzk'hwgigcw ggkwhczgx,weqb,whqgcg'owujcg
anjcbwhjw gwadzkgxwzkwbjmcw gzkawhqgwrzcohwhjwgigcwhcbwzhwhqdkwdkbwjhqgc
edbwbjmwsjmnxwgigcwhqzktwjrwhjwodigwbjmcwnzrgp”

“Eqb,wUdcowHju,wZwxjdk'w_edkh_wkjwozsqwanjcbpw Okdtgwhdtgw'kw zhg
.zu'owsqzkwjrr,wxgkw_eqdq_wzowxgwanjcb?w Kj,wodq,wZwxjdk'wedkhwkjwozsq
xjzk'op”

“ ndugwzh,wsdk'hwbjmw_hcb_?w Zwjknbw_edkh_wbjmwhjwhcb--bjmwkggxk'hwtggy
zhwmywzrwzhwxjk'hwejctp”

“ mhwxgwhcjm ngwdnnw_xjkg_wgrwxgwokdtgw zhgwugweqzngwZ'owdwhcbzk'wqzup
UdcowHju,wZ'oweznnzk'whjwhdstngwujo'wdkbhqzkaw'dhwdzk'hwjkcgdojkd ng,
 mhwgrwbjmwgkwQmstwrghsqgowdwcdhhngokdtgwzkwqgdqwrjcwugwhjwhdug,wZ'o
aebkgwhjw_ngdig_,wxdh'ow_oqjcg_p”

“Egnn,whqgk,wnghwzhwaj,wnghwzhwaj,wzrwbjm'cgwojw mnn-qgdxgxwd jmhwzhp
 Egwsdkwaghwbjmwojugwadchgc-okdtgo,wdkxwbjmwsdkwhzgwojugw mhhjkowjk
hqgzcwhdzno,wdkxwnghwjkwhqgb'cgwcdhhngokdtgo,wdkxwZwcgstjkwhqdhw'nnwqdig
hjwxjp”

“Zwt'kwohdk'w_xgu_,wUdcowHju,w mhw ndug'w'rwZwsjmnxk'waghwdnjkawezxjmh
mu,wZwhgnnwbjmwxdhpw Zwkgigcwtkjegxw 'rj'w'hwedowojwumsqw jhqgcwdkx
hcjm ngwhjw gwdwyczojkgcp”

“Egnn,wzhw_dnedbo_wzoweqgkwzh'owxjkgwczaqhpw Bjmwajhwdkbwcdhowdcjmkx
qgcg?”

“Kj,wodq,wZwqdzk'hwoggxwkjkgp”

“Egnn,weg'nnwaghwbjmwojugwcdhop”

“Eqb,wUdcowHju,wZwxjdk'w_edkh_wkjwcdhopw Xgb'owxgwxdx ndugxgohwscghmco
hjw'ohmc wdw jxb,wgkwcmohngwcjmk'wjigcw'zu,wgkw zhgwqzowrggh,weqgkwqg'o
hcbzk'whjwonggy,wZwgigcwoggpw Kj,wodq,wazuugwa'bdchgc-okdtgo,w'rwZ'o
ajhwhjwqdigw'u,w mhwxjdk'wazuugwkjwcdho;wZwqdzk'wajhwkjwmogwr'cwmu,
otdognbp”

“ mh,w.zu,wbjmw_ajh_whjwqdigw'gu--hqgbwdnnwxjpw Ojwxjk'hwudtgwkjwujcg
rmoowd jmhwzhpw Yczojkgcowdzk'hwgigcwezhqjmhwcdhopw Hqgcgwdzk'hwkj
zkohdksgwjrwzhpw Dkxwhqgbwhcdzkwhqgu,wdkxwyghwhqgu,wdkxwngdckwhqgu
hczsto,wdkxwhqgbwaghwhjw gwdowojszd ngwdowrnzgopw  mhwbjmwajhwhjwyndb
umozswhjwhqgupw Bjmwajhwdkbhqzkawhjwyndbwumozswjk?”

“Zwdzk'wajhwkmrrkw mhwdwsjdogwsju wgkwdwyzgsgwj'wydygc,wgkwdw.mzsg-qdcy;
 mhwZwcgst'kwxgbwejmnxk'whdtgwkjwohjstwzkwdw.mzsg-qdcyp”

“Bgowhqgbwejmnx _hqgb_wxjk'hwsdcgweqdhwtzkxwjrwumozsw'hzopw D
.geo-qdcy'owyngkhbwajjxwgkjmaqwrjcwdwcdhpw Dnnwdkzudnownztgwumozs--zkwd
yczojkwhqgbwxjhgwjkwzhpw Oygszdnnb,wydzkrmnwumozs;wdkxwbjmwsdk'hwaghwkj
jhqgcwtzkxwjmhwjrwdw.geo-qdcypw Zhwdnedbowzkhgcgohowhqgu;whqgbwsjugwjmh
hjwoggweqdh'owhqgwudhhgcwezhqwbjmpw Bgo,wbjm'cgwdnnwczaqh;wbjm'cgwrzfgx
igcbwegnnpw Bjmwedkhwhjwoghwjkwbjmcw gxwkzaqhow grjcgwbjmwajwhjwonggy,
dkxwgdcnbwzkwhqgwujckzkao,wdkxwyndbwbjmcw.geo-qdcy;wyndbw'HqgwNdohwNzkt
zow cjtgk'--hqdh'owhqgwhqzkawhqdhw'nnwosjjywdwcdhwvmzstgcw'kwdkbhqzka
gnog;wdkxweqgkwbjm'igwyndbgxwd jmhwhejwuzkmhgowbjm'nnwoggwdnnwhqgwcdho,
dkxwhqgwokdtgo,wdkxwoyzxgco,wdkxwhqzkaow gazkwhjwrggnwejcczgxwd jmhwbjm,
dkxwsjugpw Dkxwhqgb'nnw.mohwrdzcnbwoedcuwjigcwbjm,wdkxwqdigwdwkj ngwajjx
hzugp”

“Bgo,w_xgb_weznn,wZwcgst'k,wUdcowHju,w mhweqdhwtzkgwgcwhzugwzow_.zu_
qdizk'?w ngohwzrwZwtzkwoggwxgwyzkhpw  mhwZ'nnwxjwzhwgrwZwajhwhjpw Z
cgst'kwZw ghhgcwtggywxgwdkzudnowodhzorzgx,wgkwkjhwqdigwkjwhcjm ngwzkwxg
qjmogp”

Hjuwedzhgxwhjwhqzktwzhwjigc,wdkxwoggwzrwhqgcgwedok'hwkjhqzkawgnog;wdkx
ycghhbwojjkwqgwodbo:

“Jq,whqgcg'owjkgwhqzkawZwrjcajhpw Sjmnxwbjmwcdzogwdwrnjegcwqgcg,wxjwbjm
cgstjk?”

“Zwxjdkwtkjew mhwudb gwZwsjmnx,wUdcowHju;w mhwzh'owhjnd ngwxdctwzkwqgdq,
gkwZwdzk'wajhwkjwmogwr'cwkjwrnjegc,wkjqje,wgkwoqg'xw gwdwyje'rmnwozaqh
j'whcjm ngp”

“Egnn,wbjmwhcbwzh,wdkbedbpw Ojugwjhqgcwyczojkgcowqdowxjkgwzhp”

“Jkgwgcwxguw zawsdh-hdzn-njjtzk'wumnngk-ohdntowejmnxwacjewzkwqgdq,wUdco
Hju,wZwcgst'k,w mhwoqgwejmnxk'hw gwemhqwqdnrwxgwhcjm ngwoqg'xwsjoop”

“Xjk'hwbjmw gnzgigwzhpw Eg'nnwrghsqwbjmwdwnzhhngwjkgwdkxwbjmwyndkhwzhwzk
hqgwsjckgcwjigcwhqgcg,wdkxwcdzogwzhpw Dkxwxjk'hwsdnnwzhwumnngk,wsdnnwzh
Yzhsqzjnd--hqdh'owzhowczaqhwkdugweqgkwzh'owzkwdwyczojkpw Dkxwbjmwedkhwhj
edhgcwzhwezhqwbjmcwhgdcop”

“Eqb,wZwajhwyngkhbwoyczkawedhgc,wUdcowHjup”

“Bjmwxjk'hw_edkh_woyczkawedhgc;wbjmwedkhwhjwedhgcwzhwezhqwbjmcwhgdcop
 Zh'owhqgwedbwhqgbwdnedbowxjp”

“Eqb,wUdcowHju,wZwndbwZwtzkwcdzogwjkgwgcwxguwumnngk-ohdntowhebohgwezx
oyczkawedhgcweqzngowdkjhqgcwudk'owdw_ohdch'k_wjkgwezxwhgdcop”

“Hqdhwdzk'hwhqgwzxgdpw Bjmw_ajh_whjwxjwzhwezhqwhgdcop”

“Oqg'nnwxzgwjkwubwqdk'o,wUdcowHju,woqgwoqjnbweznn;wtdogwZwxjdk'wotdognb
gigcwscbp”

OjwHjuwedowohmuygxpw  mhwqgwohmxzgxwzhwjigc,wdkxwhqgkwodzxw.zuwejmnx
qdigwhjwejccbwdnjkawhqgw gohwqgwsjmnxwezhqwdkwjkzjkpw Qgwycjuzogx
qgwejmnxwajwhjwhqgwkzaagcwsd zkowdkxwxcjywjkg,wyczidhg,wzkw.zu'o
sjrrgg-yjh,wzkwhqgwujckzkapw.zuwodzxwqgwejmnxw“.zo'w'owojjkwqdig
hj dstgcwzkwqzowsjrrgg;”wdkxwrjmkxwojwumsqwrdmnhwezhqwzh,wdkxwezhqwhqg
ejctwdkxw jhqgcwjrwcdzozkawhqgwumnngk,wdkxw.geo-qdcyzkawhqgwcdho,wdkx
yghhzkawdkxwrndhhgczkawmywhqgwokdtgowdkxwoyzxgcowdkxwhqzkao,wjkwhjywjr
dnnwhqgwjhqgcwejctwqgwqdxwhjwxjwjkwygko,wdkxwzkosczyhzjko,wdkxw.jmckdno,
dkxwhqzkao,weqzsqwudxgwzhwujcgwhcjm ngwdkxwejccbwdkxwcgoyjkoz znzhbwhj
 gwdwyczojkgcwhqdkwdkbhqzkawqgwgigcwmkxgchjjt,whqdhwHjuwujohwnjohwdnn
ydhzgksgwezhqwqzu;wdkxwodzxwqgwedow.mohwnjdxgkgxwxjekwezhqwujcgwadmxzgc
sqdksgowhqdkwdwyczojkgcwgigcwqdxwzkwhqgwejcnxwhjwudtgwdwkdugwrjc
qzuognr,wdkxwbghwqgwxzxk'hwtkjewgkjmaqwhjwdyycgszdhgwhqgu,wdkxwhqgbwedo
.mohwd jmhwedohgxwjkwqzupw Ojw.zuwqgwedowojccb,wdkxwodzxwqgwejmnxk'h
 gqdigwojwkjwujcg,wdkxwhqgkwugwdkxwHjuwoqjigxwrjcw gxp




SQDYHGCwFFFZFp

ZKwhqgwujckzkawegwegkhwmywhjwhqgwiznndagwdkxw jmaqhwdwezcgwcdh-hcdywdkx
rghsqgxwzhwxjek,wdkxwmkohjyygxwhqgw gohwcdh-qjng,wdkxwzkwd jmhwdkwqjmc
egwqdxwrzrhggkwjrwhqgw mnnzgohwtzkxwjrwjkgo;wdkxwhqgkwegwhjjtwzhwdkxwymh
zhwzkwdwodrgwyndsgwmkxgcwDmkhwOdnnb'ow gxpw  mhweqzngwegwedowajkgwrjc
oyzxgcownzhhngwHqjudowRcdktnzkw gk.duzkw.grrgcojkwGngfdkxgcwYqgnyowrjmkx
zhwhqgcg,wdkxwjygkgxwhqgwxjjcwjrwzhwhjwoggwzrwhqgwcdhowejmnxwsjugwjmh,
dkxwhqgbwxzx;wdkxwDmkhwOdnnbwoqgwsjugwzk,wdkxweqgkwegwajhw dstwoqgwedo
d-ohdkxzkawjkwhjywjrwhqgw gxwcdzozkawSdzk,wdkxwhqgwcdhowedowxjzkaweqdh
hqgbwsjmnxwhjwtggywjrrwhqgwxmnnwhzugowrjcwqgcpw Ojwoqgwhjjtwdkxwxmohgx
mow jhqwezhqwhqgwqzstcb,wdkxwegwedowdowumsqwdowhejwqjmcowsdhsqzka
dkjhqgcwrzrhggkwjcwozfhggk,wxcdhwhqdhwugxxngojugwsm ,wdkxwhqgbwedck'h
hqgwnztgnzgoh,wkmhqgc,w gsdmogwhqgwrzcohwqdmnwedowhqgwyzstwjrwhqgwrnjstp
 Zwkgigcwoggwdwnztgnzgcwnjhwjrwcdhowhqdkweqdhwhqdhwrzcohwqdmnwedop

Egwajhwdwoyngkxzxwohjstwjrwojchgxwoyzxgco,wdkxw mao,wdkxwrcjao,wdkx
sdhgcyznndco,wdkxwjkgwhqzkawjcwdkjhqgc;wdkxwegwnztgwhjwajhwdwqjckgh'o
kgoh,w mhwegwxzxk'hpw Hqgwrduznbwedowdhwqjugpw Egwxzxk'hwazigwzhwczaqh
my,w mhwohdbgxwezhqwhqguwdownjkawdowegwsjmnx;w gsdmogwegwdnnjegxweg'x
hzcgwhqguwjmhwjcwhqgb'xwajhwhjwhzcgwmowjmh,wdkxwhqgbwxjkgwzhpw Hqgkweg
ajhwdnnbsmuydzkwdkxwcm  gxwjkwhqgwyndsgo,wdkxwedowycghhbwkgdcwdnnwczaqh
dadzk,w mhwsjmnxk'hwoghwxjekwsjkigkzgkhpw Dkxwojwegwegkhwrjcwhqgwokdtgo,
dkxwacd  gxwdwsjmyngwjrwxjlgkwadchgcowdkxwqjmog-okdtgo,wdkxwymhwhqguwzk
dw da,wdkxwymhwzhwzkwjmcwcjju,wdkxw bwhqdhwhzugwzhwedowomyygc-hzug,wdkx
dwcdhhnzkawajjxwqjkgohwxdb'owejct:w dkxwqmkacb?--jq,wkj,wZwcgstjkwkjh!
 Dkxwhqgcgwedck'hwdw ngoogxwokdtgwmywhqgcgweqgkwegwegkhw dst--egwxzxk'h
qdnrwhzgwhqgwodst,wdkxwhqgbwejctgxwjmhwojugqje,wdkxwngrhpw  mhwzhwxzxk'h
udhhgcwumsq,w gsdmogwhqgbwedowohznnwjkwhqgwycguzogowojugeqgcgopw Oj
egw.mxagxwegwsjmnxwaghwojugwjrwhqguwdadzkpw Kj,whqgcgwedck'hwkjwcgdn
osdcszhbwjrwokdtgowd jmhwhqgwqjmogwrjcwdwsjkozxgcd ngwoygnnpw Bjm'xwogg
hqguwxczyyzkawrcjuwhqgwcdrhgcowdkxwyndsgowgigcbwkjewdkxwhqgk;wdkxwhqgb
agkgcnbwndkxgxwzkwbjmcwyndhg,wjcwxjekwhqgw dstwjrwbjmcwkgst,wdkxwujoh
jrwhqgwhzugweqgcgwbjmwxzxk'hwedkhwhqgupw Egnn,whqgbwedowqdkxojugwdkx
ohczygx,wdkxwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwqdcuwzkwdwuznnzjkwjrwhqgu;w mhwhqdhwkgigc
udxgwkjwxzrrgcgksgwhjwDmkhwOdnnb;woqgwxgoyzogxwokdtgo,w gwhqgw cggxweqdh
hqgbwuzaqh,wdkxwoqgwsjmnxk'hwohdkxwhqguwkjwedbwbjmwsjmnxwrzfwzh;wdkx
gigcbwhzugwjkgwjrwhqguwrnjyygxwxjekwjkwqgc,wzhwxzxk'hwudtgwkjwxzrrgcgksg
eqdhwoqgwedowxjzka,woqgwejmnxw.mohwndbwhqdhwejctwxjekwdkxwnzaqhwjmhpw Z
kgigcwoggwomsqwdwejudkpw Dkxwbjmwsjmnxwqgdcwqgcweqjjywhjw.gczsqjpw Bjm
sjmnxk'hwaghwqgcwhjwhdtgwd-qjnhwjrwjkgwjrwhqguwezhqwhqgwhjkaopw Dkxwzr
oqgwhmckgxwjigcwdkxwrjmkxwjkgwzkw gxwoqgwejmnxwoscdu ngwjmhwdkxwnzrhwd
qjenwhqdhwbjmwejmnxwhqzktwhqgwqjmogwedowdrzcgpw Oqgwxzohmc gxwhqgwjnx
udkwojwhqdhwqgwodzxwqgwsjmnxwujohwezoqwhqgcgwqdxk'hwgigcw ggkwkjwokdtgo
scgdhgxpw Eqb,wdrhgcwgigcbwndohwokdtgwqdxw ggkwajkgwsngdcwjmhwjrwhqg
qjmogwrjcwdowumsqwdowdweggtwDmkhwOdnnbwedck'hwjigcwzhwbgh;woqgwedck'h
kgdcwjigcwzh;weqgkwoqgwedowoghhzkawhqzktzkawd jmhwojughqzkawbjmwsjmnx
hjmsqwqgcwjkwhqgw dstwjrwqgcwkgstwezhqwdwrgdhqgcwdkxwoqgwejmnxw.muy
czaqhwjmhwjrwqgcwohjstzkaopw Zhwedowigcbwsmczjmopw  mhwHjuwodzxwdnn
ejugkwedow.mohwojpw Qgwodzxwhqgbwedowudxgwhqdhwedbwrjcwojugwcgdojkwjc
jhqgcp

Egwajhwdwnzstzkawgigcbwhzugwjkgwjrwjmcwokdtgowsjugwzkwqgcwedb,wdkxwoqg
dnnjegxwhqgogwnzstzkaowedck'hwkjhqzkawhjweqdhwoqgwejmnxwxjwzrwegwgigc
njdxgxwmywhqgwyndsgwdadzkwezhqwhqgupw Zwxzxk'hwuzkxwhqgwnzstzkao,
 gsdmogwhqgbwxzxk'hwdujmkhwhjwkjhqzka;w mhwZwuzkxgxwhqgwhcjm ngweg
qdxwhjwndbwzkwdkjhqgcwnjhpw  mhwegwajhwhqguwndzxwzk,wdkxwdnnwhqgwjhqgc
hqzkao;wdkxwbjmwkgigcwoggwdwsd zkwdow nzhqgojugwdow.zu'owedoweqgkwhqgb'x
dnnwoedcuwjmhwrjcwumozswdkxwajwrjcwqzupw .zuwxzxk'hwnztgwhqgwoyzxgco,
dkxwhqgwoyzxgcowxzxk'hwnztgw.zu;wdkxwojwhqgb'xwndbwrjcwqzu,wdkxwudtgwzh
uzaqhbwedcuwrjcwqzupw Dkxwqgwodzxwhqdhw gheggkwhqgwcdhowdkxwhqgwokdtgo
dkxwhqgwaczkxohjkgwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwcjjuwzkw gxwrjcwqzu,wotdognb;wdkx
eqgkwhqgcgwedo,wdw jxbwsjmnxk'hwonggy,wzhwedowojwnzignb,wdkxwzhwedo
dnedbownzignb,wqgwodzx,w gsdmogw_hqgb_wkgigcwdnnwongyhwdhwjkgwhzug,w mh
hjjtwhmckwd jmh,wojweqgkwhqgwokdtgowedowdonggywhqgwcdhowedowjkwxgst,wdkx
eqgkwhqgwcdhowhmckgxwzkwhqgwokdtgowsjugwjkwedhsq,wojwqgwdnedbowqdxwjkg
adkawmkxgcwqzu,wzkwqzowedb,wdkxwh'jhqgcwadkawqdizkawdwszcsmowjigcwqzu,
dkxwzrwqgwajhwmywhjwqmkhwdwkgewyndsgwhqgwoyzxgcowejmnxwhdtgwdwsqdksgwdh
qzuwdowqgwscjoogxwjigcpwQgwodzxwzrwqgwgigcwajhwjmhwhqzowhzugwqgwejmnxk'h
gigcw gwdwyczojkgcwdadzk,wkjhwrjcwdwodndcbp

Egnn,w bwhqgwgkxwjrwhqcggweggtowgigcbhqzkawedowzkwycghhbwajjxwoqdygp
 Hqgwoqzchwedowogkhwzkwgdcnb,wzkwdwyzg,wdkxwgigcbwhzugwdwcdhw zhw.zuwqg
ejmnxwaghwmywdkxweczhgwdwnzhhngwzkwqzow.jmckdnweqznohwhqgwzktwedowrcgoq;
hqgwygkowedowudxg,whqgwzkosczyhzjkowdkxwojwjkwedowdnnwsdcigxwjkwhqg
aczkxohjkg;whqgw gx-ngawedowodegxwzkwhej,wdkxwegwqdxwghwmywhqgwodexmoh,
dkxwzhwazigwmowdwujohwdudlzkawohjudsq-dsqgpw Egwcgstjkgxwegwedowdnn
ajzkawhjwxzg,w mhwxzxk'hpw Zhwedowhqgwujohwmkxzagohz ngwodexmohwZwgigc
ogg;wdkxwHjuwodzxwhqgwodugp

 mhwdowZwedowodbzka,weg'xwajhwdnnwhqgwejctwxjkgwkje,wdhwndoh;wdkxwegwedo
dnnwycghhbwumsqwrdaagxwjmh,whjj,w mhwudzknbw.zupw Hqgwjnxwudkwqdxwecjhg
dwsjmyngwjrwhzugowhjwhqgwyndkhdhzjkw gnjewJcngdkowhjwsjugwdkxwaghwhqgzc
cmkdedbwkzaagc,w mhwqdxk'hwajhwkjwdkoegc,w gsdmogwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwomsq
yndkhdhzjk;wojwqgwdnnjegxwqgwejmnxwdxigchzogw.zuwzkwhqgwOhpwNjmzowdkx
KgewJcngdkowydygco;wdkxweqgkwqgwugkhzjkgxwhqgwOhpwNjmzowjkgowzhwazigwug
hqgwsjnxwoqzigco,wdkxwZwoggwegwqdxk'hwkjwhzugwhjwnjogpwOjwHjuwodzx,wkje
rjcwhqgwkjkkdujmownghhgcop

“Eqdh'owhqgu?”w Zwodbop

“Edckzkaowhjwhqgwygjyngwhqdhwojughqzkawzowmypw Ojughzugowzh'owxjkgwjkg
edb,wojughzugowdkjhqgcpw  mhwhqgcg'owdnedbowojug jxbwoybzkawdcjmkxwhqdh
azigowkjhzsgwhjwhqgwajigckjcwjrwhqgwsdohngpw EqgkwNjmzowFIZpwedowajzka
hjwnzaqhwjmhwjrwhqgwHjjngczgo,wdwogcidkh-azcnwxjkgwzhpw Zh'owdwigcbwajjx
edb,wdkxwojwzowhqgwkjkkdujmownghhgcopw Eg'nnwmogwhqguw jhqpw Dkxwzh'o
momdnwrjcwhqgwyczojkgc'owujhqgcwhjwsqdkagwsnjhqgowezhqwqzu,wdkxwoqg
ohdbowzk,wdkxwqgwonzxgowjmhwzkwqgcwsnjhqgopw Eg'nnwxjwhqdh,whjjp”

“ mhwnjjtbwqgcg,wHju,weqdhwxjwegwedkhwhjw_edck_wdkb jxbwrjcwhqdh
ojughqzka'owmy?w Nghwhqguwrzkxwzhwjmhwrjcwhqguognigo--zh'owhqgzc
njjtjmhp”

“Bgo,wZwtkje;w mhwbjmwsdk'hwxgygkxwjkwhqgupw Zh'owhqgwedbwhqgb'igwdshgx
rcjuwhqgwigcbwohdch--ngrhwmowhjwxjw_gigcbhqzka_pw Hqgb'cgwojwsjkrzxzka
dkxwumnngh-qgdxgxwhqgbwxjk'hwhdtgwkjhzsgwjrwkjhqzkawdhwdnnpw Ojwzrweg
xjk'hw_azig_whqguwkjhzsgwhqgcgwejk'hw gwkj jxbwkjcwkjhqzkawhjwzkhgcrgcg
ezhqwmo,wdkxwojwdrhgcwdnnwjmcwqdcxwejctwdkxwhcjm ngwhqzowgosdygw'nnwaj
jrrwygcrgshnbwrndh;wejk'hwdujmkhwhjwkjhqzka--ejk'hw gwkjhqzkaw_hj_wzhp”

“Egnn,wdowrjcwug,wHju,whqdh'owhqgwedbwZ'xwnztgp”

“Oqmsto!”wqgwodbo,wdkxwnjjtgxwxzoamohgxpw OjwZwodbo:

“ mhwZwdzk'hwajzkawhjwudtgwkjwsjuyndzkhpw Dkbwedbwhqdhwomzhowbjmwomzho
ugpwEqdhwbjmwajzkawhjwxjwd jmhwhqgwogcidkh-azcn?”

“Bjm'nnw gwqgcpw Bjmwonzxgwzk,wzkwhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqgwkzaqh,wdkxwqjjtwhqdh
bdnngcwazcn'owrcjstp”

“Eqb,wHju,whqdhw'nnwudtgwhcjm ngwkgfhwujckzka;w gsdmog,wjrwsjmcog,woqg
ycj ' nbwqdzk'hwajhwdkbw mhwhqdhwjkgp”

“Zwtkje;w mhwbjmwxjk'hwedkhwzhw mhwrzrhggkwuzkmhgo,whjwsdccbwhqg
kjkkdujmownghhgcwdkxwoqjigwzhwmkxgcwhqgwrcjkhwxjjcp”

“Dnnwczaqh,whqgk,wZ'nnwxjwzh;w mhwZwsjmnxwsdccbwzhw.mohwdowqdkxbwzkwub
jekwhjaop”

“Bjmwejmnxk'hwnjjtwnztgwdwogcidkh-azcnw_hqgk_,wejmnxwbjm?”

“Kj,w mhwhqgcgwejk'hw gwkj jxbwhjwoggweqdhwZwnjjtwnztg,w_dkbedb_p”

“Hqdhwdzk'hwajhwkjhqzkawhjwxjwezhqwzhpw Hqgwhqzkawrjcwmowhjwxjwzow.moh
hjwxjwjmcw_xmhb_,wdkxwkjhwejccbwd jmhweqghqgcwdkb jxbw_oggo_wmowxjwzhwjc
kjhpwQdzk'hwbjmwajhwkjwyczkszyngwdhwdnn?”

“Dnnwczaqh,wZwdzk'hwodbzkawkjhqzka;wZ'uwhqgwogcidkh-azcnpw Eqj'ow.zu'o
ujhqgc?”

“Z'uwqzowujhqgcpw Z'nnwqjjtwdwajekwrcjuwDmkhwOdnnbp”

“Egnn,whqgk,wbjm'nnwqdigwhjwohdbwzkwhqgwsd zkweqgkwugwdkxw.zuwngdigop”

“Kjhwumsqpw Z'nnwohmrrw.zu'owsnjhqgowrmnnwjrwohcdewdkxwndbwzhwjkwqzow gx
hjwcgycgogkhwqzowujhqgcwzkwxzoamzog,wdkxw.zuw'nnwhdtgwhqgwkzaagcwejudk'o
ajekwjrrwjrwugwdkxwegdcwzh,wdkxweg'nnwdnnwgidxgwhjaghqgcpw Eqgkwd
yczojkgcwjrwohbngwgosdygowzh'owsdnngxwdkwgidozjkpw Zh'owdnedbowsdnngx
ojweqgkwdwtzkawgosdygo,wr'czkohdksgpw Dkxwhqgwodugwezhqwdwtzka'owojk;
zhwxjk'hwudtgwkjwxzrrgcgksgweqghqgcwqg'owdwkdhmcdnwjkgwjcwdkwmkkdhmcdn
jkgp”

OjwHjuwqgwecjhgwhqgwkjkkdujmownghhgc,wdkxwZwoujmsqgxwhqgwbdnngcwegksq'o
rcjstwhqdhwkzaqh,wdkxwymhwzhwjk,wdkxwoqjigxwzhwmkxgcwhqgwrcjkhwxjjc,whqg
edbwHjuwhjnxwugwhjpw Zhwodzx:

 gedcgpw Hcjm ngwzow cgezkapw Tggywdwoqdcywnjjtjmhpw_Mktkjek_w_Rczgkx_p

Kgfhwkzaqhwegwohmstwdwyzshmcg,weqzsqwHjuwxcdegxwzkw njjx,wjrwdwotmnnwdkx
scjoo jkgowjkwhqgwrcjkhwxjjc;wdkxwkgfhwkzaqhwdkjhqgcwjkgwjrwdwsjrrzkwjk
hqgw dstwxjjcpw Zwkgigcwoggwdwrduznbwzkwomsqwdwoegdhpw Hqgbwsjmnxk'hwd
 ggkwejcogwosdcgxwzrwhqgwyndsgwqdxwdw ggkwrmnnwjrwaqjohowndbzkawrjcwhqgu
 gqzkxwgigcbhqzkawdkxwmkxgcwhqgw gxowdkxwoqzigczkawhqcjmaqwhqgwdzcpw Zr
dwxjjcw dkagx,wDmkhwOdnnbwoqgw.muygxwdkxwodzxw“jmsq!”wzrwdkbhqzkawrgnn,
oqgw.muygxwdkxwodzxw“jmsq!”wzrwbjmwqdyygkgxwhjwhjmsqwqgc,weqgkwoqg
edck'hwkjhzszka,woqgwxjkgwhqgwodug;woqgwsjmnxk'hwrdsgwkjedbwdkxw g
odhzorzgx,w gsdmogwoqgwdnnjegxwhqgcgwedowojughqzkaw gqzkxwqgcwgigcb
hzug--ojwoqgwedowdnedbowd-eqzcnzkawdcjmkxwomxxgk,wdkxwodbzkaw“jmsq,”wdkx
 grjcgwoqg'xwajhwhej-hqzcxowdcjmkxwoqg'xweqzcnw dstwdadzk,wdkxwodbwzh
dadzk;wdkxwoqgwedowdrcdzxwhjwajwhjw gx,w mhwoqgwxdok'hwoghwmypw Ojwhqg
hqzkawedowejctzkawigcbwegnn,wHjuwodzx;wqgwodzxwqgwkgigcwoggwdwhqzkawejct
ujcgwodhzordshjcbpwQgwodzxwzhwoqjegxwzhwedowxjkgwczaqhp

Ojwqgwodzx,wkjewrjcwhqgwacdkxw mnag!w Ojwhqgwigcbwkgfhwujckzkawdhwhqg
ohcgdtwjrwxdekwegwajhwdkjhqgcwnghhgcwcgdxb,wdkxwedowejkxgczkaweqdhweg
 ghhgcwxjwezhqwzh,w gsdmogwegwqgdcxwhqguwodbwdhwomyygcwhqgbwedowajzka
hjwqdigwdwkzaagcwjkwedhsqwdhw jhqwxjjcowdnnwkzaqhpw Hjuwqgwegkhwxjekwhqg
nzaqhkzka-cjxwhjwoybwdcjmkx;wdkxwhqgwkzaagcwdhwhqgw dstwxjjcwedowdonggy,
dkxwqgwohmstwzhwzkwhqgw dstwjrwqzowkgstwdkxwsjugw dstpw Hqzownghhgc
odzx:

Xjk'hw ghcdbwug,wZwezoqwhjw gwbjmcwrczgkxpw Hqgcgwzowdwxgoycdhgwadkawjr
smhhqcjdhowrcjuwjigcwzkwhqgwZkxzdkwHgcczhjcbwajzkawhjwohgdnwbjmcwcmkdedb
kzaagcwhj-kzaqh,wdkxwhqgbwqdigw ggkwhcbzkawhjwosdcgwbjmwojwdowbjmweznn
ohdbwzkwhqgwqjmogwdkxwkjhw jhqgcwhqgupw Zwduwjkgwjrwhqgwadka,w mhwqdig
ajhwcgnzaazjkwdkxwezoqwhjwvmzhwzhwdkxwngdxwdkwqjkgohwnzrgwdadzk,wdkx
eznnw ghcdbwhqgwqgnzoqwxgozakpwHqgbweznnwokgdtwxjekwrcjuwkjchqdcxo,
dnjkawhqgwrgksg,wdhwuzxkzaqhwgfdsh,wezhqwdwrdnogwtgb,wdkxwajwzkwhqg
kzaagc'owsd zkwhjwaghwqzupwZwduwhjw gwjrrwdwyzgsgwdkxw njewdwhzkwqjck
zrwZwoggwdkbwxdkagc;w mhwohgdxwjrwhqdhwZweznnw_ dd_wnztgwdwoqggywojjkwdo
hqgbwaghwzkwdkxwkjhw njewdhwdnn;whqgkweqznohwhqgbwdcgwaghhzkawqzo
sqdzkownjjog,wbjmwonzywhqgcgwdkxwnjstwhqguwzk,wdkxwsdkwtznnwhqguwdhwbjmc
ngdomcgpw Xjk'hwxjwdkbhqzkaw mhw.mohwhqgwedbwZwduwhgnnzkawbjm,wzrwbjmwxj
hqgbweznnwomoyzszjkwojughqzkawdkxwcdzogweqjjy-.du jcggqjjpwZwxjwkjhwezoq
dkbwcgedcxw mhwhjwtkjewZwqdigwxjkgwhqgwczaqhwhqzkapw_MktkjekwRczgkxp_




SQDYHGCwFNp

EGwedowrggnzkawycghhbwajjxwdrhgcw cgdtrdoh,wdkxwhjjtwubwsdkjgwdkxwegkh
jigcwhqgwczigcwd-rzoqzka,wezhqwdwnmksq,wdkxwqdxwdwajjxwhzug,wdkxwhjjtwd
njjtwdhwhqgwcdrhwdkxwrjmkxwqgcwdnnwczaqh,wdkxwajhwqjugwndhgwhjwomyygc,
dkxwrjmkxwhqguwzkwomsqwdwoegdhwdkxwejccbwhqgbwxzxk'hwtkjeweqzsqwgkxwhqgb
edowohdkxzkawjk,wdkxwudxgwmowajwczaqhwjrrwhjw gxwhqgwuzkmhgwegwedowxjkg
omyygc,wdkxwejmnxk'hwhgnnwmoweqdhwhqgwhcjm ngwedo,wdkxwkgigcwnghwjkwd
ejcxwd jmhwhqgwkgewnghhgc,w mhwxzxk'hwkggxwhj,w gsdmogwegwtkjegxwdowumsq
d jmhwzhwdowdkb jxbwxzx,wdkxwdowojjkwdowegwedowqdnrwmywohdzcowdkxwqgc
 dstwedowhmckgxwegwonzxwrjcwhqgwsgnndcwsmy jdcxwdkxwnjdxgxwmywdwajjx
nmksqwdkxwhjjtwzhwmywhjwjmcwcjjuwdkxwegkhwhjw gx,wdkxwajhwmywd jmh
qdnr-ydohwgngigk,wdkxwHjuwymhwjkwDmkhwOdnnb'owxcgoowhqdhwqgwohjngwdkx
edowajzkawhjwohdchwezhqwhqgwnmksq,w mhwodbo:

“Eqgcg'owhqgw mhhgc?”

“Zwndzxwjmhwdwqmktwjrwzh,”wZwodbo,w“jkwdwyzgsgwjrwdwsjck-yjkgp”

“Egnn,wbjmw_ngrh_wzhwndzxwjmh,whqgk--zhwdzk'hwqgcgp”

“Egwsdkwaghwdnjkawezhqjmhwzh,”wZwodbop

“Egwsdkwaghwdnjkaw_ezhq_wzh,whjj,”wqgwodbo;w“.mohwbjmwonzxgwxjekwsgnndc
dkxwrghsqwzhpw Dkxwhqgkwujogbwczaqhwxjekwhqgwnzaqhkzka-cjxwdkxwsjug
dnjkapwZ'nnwajwdkxwohmrrwhqgwohcdewzkhjw.zu'owsnjhqgowhjwcgycgogkhwqzo
ujhqgcwzkwxzoamzog,wdkxw gwcgdxbwhjw_ dd_wnztgwdwoqggywdkxwoqjigwojjkwdo
bjmwaghwhqgcgp”

Ojwjmhwqgwegkh,wdkxwxjekwsgnndcwegkhwZpwHqgwqmktwjrw mhhgc,w zawdo
dwygcojk'owrzoh,wedoweqgcgwZwqdxwngrhwzh,wojwZwhjjtwmywhqgwond wjr
sjck-yjkgwezhqwzhwjk,wdkxw njegxwjmhwubwnzaqh,wdkxwohdchgxwmywohdzco
igcbwohgdnhqb,wdkxwajhwmywhjwhqgwudzkwrnjjcwdnnwczaqh,w mhwqgcgwsjugo
DmkhwOdnnbwezhqwdwsdkxng,wdkxwZwsndyygxwhqgwhcmstwzkwubwqdh,wdkxwsndyygx
ubwqdhwjkwubwqgdx,wdkxwhqgwkgfhwogsjkxwoqgwoggwug;wdkxwoqgwodbo:

“Bjmw ggkwxjekwsgnndc?”

“Bgo'up”

“Eqdhwbjmw ggkwxjzkawxjekwhqgcg?”

“Kjhq'kp”

“_Kjhq'k!_”

“Kj'up”

“Egnn,whqgk,weqdhwyjoogoogxwbjmwhjwajwxjekwhqgcgwhqzowhzugwjrwkzaqh?”

“Zwxjk'hwtkjew'up”

“Bjmwxjk'hw_tkje_?w Xjk'hwdkoegcwugwhqdhwedbpwHju,wZwedkhwhjwtkjeweqdh
bjmw ggkw_xjzka_wxjekwhqgcgp”

“Zwqdzk'hw ggkwxjzkawdwozkangwhqzka,wDmkhwOdnnb,wZwqjygwhjwacdszjmowzrwZ
qdigp”

Zwcgstjkgxwoqg'xwnghwugwajwkje,wdkxwdowdwagkgcnwhqzkawoqgwejmnx;w mhwZ
o'yjogwhqgcgwedowojwudkbwohcdkagwhqzkaowajzkawjkwoqgwedow.mohwzkwdwoegdh
d jmhwgigcbwnzhhngwhqzkawhqdhwedck'hwbdcx-ohzstwohcdzaqh;wojwoqgwodbo,
igcbwxgszxgx:

“Bjmw.mohwudcsqwzkhjwhqdhwoghhzka-cjjuwdkxwohdbwhqgcgwhznnwZwsjugpw Bjm
 ggkwmywhjwojughqzkawbjmwkjw mozkgoowhj,wdkxwZwndbwZ'nnwrzkxwjmhweqdhwzh
zow grjcgwZ'Uwxjkgwezhqwbjmp”

OjwoqgwegkhwdedbwdowZwjygkgxwhqgwxjjcwdkxwedntgxwzkhjwhqgwoghhzka-cjjup
Ub,w mhwhqgcgwedowdwscjexwhqgcg!w Rzrhggkwrdcugco,wdkxwgigcbwjkgwjrwhqgu
qdxwdwamkpw Zwedowujohwyjegcrmnwozst,wdkxwonmktwhjwdwsqdzcwdkxwoghwxjekp
Hqgbwedowoghhzkawdcjmkx,wojugwjrwhqguwhdntzkawdwnzhhng,wzkwdwnjewijzsg,
dkxwdnnwjrwhqguwrzxaghbwdkxwmkgdob,w mhwhcbzkawhjwnjjtwnztgwhqgbwedck'h;
 mhwZwtkjegxwhqgbwedo,w gsdmogwhqgbwedowdnedbowhdtzkawjrrwhqgzcwqdho,
dkxwymhhzkawhqguwjk,wdkxwoscdhsqzkawhqgzcwqgdxo,wdkxwsqdkazkawhqgzc
ogdho,wdkxwrmu nzkawezhqwhqgzcw mhhjkopw Zwedck'hwgdobwubognr,w mhwZ
xzxk'hwhdtgwubwqdhwjrr,wdnnwhqgwodugp

ZwxzxwezoqwDmkhwOdnnbwejmnxwsjug,wdkxwaghwxjkgwezhqwug,wdkxwnzstwug,wzr
oqgwedkhgxwhj,wdkxwnghwugwaghwdedbwdkxwhgnnwHjuwqjeweg'xwjigcxjkgwhqzo
hqzka,wdkxweqdhwdwhqmkxgczkawqjckgh'o-kgohweg'xwajhwjmcognigowzkhj,woj
egwsjmnxwohjywrjjnzkawdcjmkxwohcdzaqhwjrr,wdkxwsngdcwjmhwezhqw.zuw grjcg
hqgogwczyowajhwjmhwjrwydhzgksgwdkxwsjugwrjcwmop

Dhwndohwoqgwsjugwdkxw gamkwhjwdotwugwvmgohzjko,w mhwZw_sjmnxk'h_wdkoegc
hqguwohcdzaqh,wZwxzxk'hwtkjeweqzsqwgkxwjrwugwedowmy;w gsdmogwhqgogwugk
edowzkwomsqwdwrzxaghwkjewhqdhwojugwedowedkhzkawhjwohdchwczaqhwKJEwdkx
ndbwrjcwhqguwxgoygcdxjgo,wdkxwodbzkawzhwedck'hw mhwdwrgewuzkmhgowhj
uzxkzaqh;wdkxwjhqgcowedowhcbzkawhjwaghwhqguwhjwqjnxwjkwdkxwedzhwrjcwhqg
oqggy-ozakdn;wdkxwqgcgwedowDmkhbwygaazkawdedbwdhwhqgwvmgohzjko,wdkx
ugwd-oqdtzkawdnnwjigcwdkxwcgdxbwhjwozktwxjekwzkwubwhcdstowZwedo
hqdhwosdcgx;wdkxwhqgwyndsgwaghhzkawqjhhgcwdkxwqjhhgc,wdkxwhqgw mhhgc
 gazkkzkawhjwugnhwdkxwcmkwxjekwubwkgstwdkxw gqzkxwubwgdco;wdkxwycghhb
ojjk,weqgkwjkgwjrwhqguwodbo,w“Z'Uwrjcwajzkawdkxwaghhzkawzkwhqgwsd zk
_rzcoh_wdkxwczaqhw_kje_,wdkxwsdhsqzkawhqguweqgkwhqgbwsjug,”wZwujoh
xcjyygx;wdkxwdwohcgdtwjrw mhhgcwsjugwd-hczstnzkawxjekwubwrjcgqgdx,wdkx
DmkhwOdnnbwoqgwoggwzh,wdkxwhmckoweqzhgwdowdwoqggh,wdkxwodbo:

“Rjcwhqgwndkx'owodtg,weqdhw_zo_whqgwudhhgcwezhqwhqgwsqznx?w Qg'owajhwhqg
 cdzk-rgigcwdowoqjcgwdowbjm'cgw jck,wdkxwhqgb'cgwjjlzkawjmh!”

Dkxwgigcb jxbwcmkowhjwogg,wdkxwoqgwokdhsqgowjrrwubwqdh,wdkxwjmhwsjugo
hqgw cgdxwdkxweqdhwedowngrhwjrwhqgw mhhgc,wdkxwoqgwacd  gxwug,wdkx
qmaagxwug,wdkxwodbo:

“Jq,weqdhwdwhmckwbjmwxzxwazigwug!wdkxwqjewandxwdkxwacdhgrmnwZwduwzh
dzk'hwkjwejcog;wrjcwnmst'owdadzkohwmo,wdkxwzhwkgigcwcdzkow mhwzhwyjmco,
dkxweqgkwZwoggwhqdhwhcmstwZwhqjmaqhweg'xwnjohwbjm,wrjcwZwtkjegxw b
hqgwsjnjcwdkxwdnnwzhwedow.mohwnztgwbjmcw cdzkowejmnxw gwzr--Xgdc,
xgdc,weqbx'khwbjmw_hgnn_wugwhqdhwedoweqdhwbjm'xw ggkwxjekwhqgcgwrjc,wZ
ejmnxk'hwdwsdcgxpw Kjewsngcwjmhwhjw gx,wdkxwxjk'hwnguugwoggwkjwujcgwjr
bjmwhznnwujckzka!”

Zwedowmywohdzcowzkwdwogsjkx,wdkxwxjekwhqgwnzaqhkzka-cjxwzkwdkjhqgcwjkg,
dkxwoqzkkzkawhqcjmaqwhqgwxdctwrjcwhqgwngdk-hjpw Zwsjmnxk'hwqdcxnbwaghwub
ejcxowjmh,wZwedowojwdkfzjmo;w mhwZwhjnxwHjuwdowvmzstwdowZwsjmnxwegwumoh
.muywrjcwzhwkje,wdkxwkjhwdwuzkmhgwhjwnjog--hqgwqjmogwrmnnwjrwugk,wbjkxgc,
ezhqwamko!

Qzowgbgow.mohw ndlgx;wdkxwqgwodbo:

“Kj!--zowhqdhwoj?w _dzk'h_wzhw mnnb!w Eqb,wQmst,wzrwzhwedowhjwxjwjigc
dadzk,wZw ghwZwsjmnxwrghsqwhejwqmkxcgx!w Zrwegwsjmnxwymhwzhwjrrwhznn--”

“Qmccb!w _Qmccb_!”w Zwodbopww“Eqgcg'ow.zu?”

“Czaqhwdhwbjmcwgn je;wzrwbjmwcgdsqwjmhwbjmcwdcuwbjmwsdkwhjmsqwqzup
 Qg'owxcgoogx,wdkxwgigcbhqzka'owcgdxbpw Kjeweg'nnwonzxgwjmhwdkxwazigwhqg
oqggy-ozakdnp”

 mhwhqgkwegwqgdcxwhqgwhcduywjrwugkwsjuzkawhjwhqgwxjjc,wdkxwqgdcxwhqgu
 gazkwhjwrmu ngwezhqwhqgwydx-njst,wdkxwqgdcxwdwudkwodb:

“Zw_hjnx_wbjmweg'xw gwhjjwojjk;whqgbwqdigk'hwsjug--hqgwxjjcwzownjstgxp
Qgcg,wZ'nnwnjstwojugwjrwbjmwzkhjwhqgwsd zk,wdkxwbjmwndbwrjcw'guwzkwhqg
xdctwdkxwtznnw'guweqgkwhqgbwsjug;wdkxwhqgwcgohwosdhhgcwdcjmkxwdwyzgsg,
dkxwnzohgkwzrwbjmwsdkwqgdcw'guwsjuzkap”

Ojwzkwhqgbwsjug,w mhwsjmnxk'hwoggwmowzkwhqgwxdct,wdkxwujohwhcjxwjk
moweqznohwegwedowqmohnzkawhjwaghwmkxgcwhqgw gxpw  mhwegwajhwmkxgcwdnn
czaqh,wdkxwjmhwhqcjmaqwhqgwqjng,woezrhw mhwojrh--.zuwrzcoh,wugwkgfh,
dkxwHjuwndoh,weqzsqwedowdssjcxzkawhjwHju'owjcxgcopw Kjewegwedowzkwhqg
ngdk-hj,wdkxwqgdcxwhcduyzkaowsnjogw bwjmhozxgpw Ojwegwscgyhwhjwhqgwxjjc,
dkxwHjuwohjyygxwmowhqgcgwdkxwymhwqzowgbgwhjwhqgwscdst,w mhwsjmnxk'hwudtg
jmhwkjhqzka,wzhwedowojwxdct;wdkxweqzoygcgxwdkxwodzxwqgwejmnxwnzohgk
rjcwhqgwohgyowhjwaghwrmchqgc,wdkxweqgkwqgwkmxagxwmow.zuwumohwanzxgwjmh
rzcoh,wdkxwqzuwndohpw Ojwqgwoghwqzowgdcwhjwhqgwscdstwdkxwnzohgkgx,wdkx
nzohgkgx,wdkxwnzohgkgx,wdkxwhqgwohgyowd-oscdyzkawdcjmkxwjmhwhqgcgwdnn
hqgwhzug;wdkxwdhwndohwqgwkmxagxwmo,wdkxwegwonzxwjmh,wdkxwohjjygxwxjek,
kjhw cgdhqzka,wdkxwkjhwudtzkawhqgwngdohwkjzog,wdkxwonzyygxwohgdnhqb
hjedcxowhqgwrgksgwzkwZk.mkwrzng,wdkxwajhwhjwzhwdnnwczaqh,wdkxwugwdkxw.zu
jigcwzh;w mhwHju'ow czhsqgowsdhsqgxwrdohwjkwdwoynzkhgcwjkwhqgwhjy
cdzn,wdkxwhqgkwqgwqgdcwhqgwohgyowsjuzka,wojwqgwqdxwhjwymnnwnjjog,weqzsq
okdyygxwhqgwoynzkhgcwdkxwudxgwdwkjzog;wdkxwdowqgwxcjyygxwzkwjmcwhcdsto
dkxwohdchgxwojug jxbwozkaowjmh:

“Eqj'owhqdh?w Dkoegc,wjcwZ'nnwoqjjh!”

 mhwegwxzxk'hwdkoegc;wegw.mohwmkrmcngxwjmcwqggnowdkxwoqjigxpw Hqgkwhqgcg
edowdwcmoq,wdkxwdw_ dka,w dka,w dka!_wdkxwhqgw mnnghowrdzcnbweqzllgx
dcjmkxwmo!wEgwqgdcxwhqguwozkawjmh:

“Qgcgwhqgbwdcg!w Hqgb'igw cjtgwrjcwhqgwczigc!w Drhgcw'gu,w jbo,wdkxwhmck
njjogwhqgwxjao!”

Ojwqgcgwhqgbwsjug,wrmnnwhznhpw Egwsjmnxwqgdcwhqguw gsdmogwhqgbwejcg
 jjhowdkxwbgnngx,w mhwegwxzxk'hwegdcwkjw jjhowdkxwxzxk'hwbgnnpw Egwedo
zkwhqgwydhqwhjwhqgwuznn;wdkxweqgkwhqgbwajhwycghhbwsnjogwjkwhjwmoweg
xjxagxwzkhjwhqgw moqwdkxwnghwhqguwajw b,wdkxwhqgkwxcjyygxwzkw gqzkx
hqgupw Hqgb'xwqdxwdnnwhqgwxjaowoqmhwmy,wojwhqgbwejmnxk'hwosdcgwjrrwhqg
cj  gco;w mhw bwhqzowhzugwojug jxbwqdxwnghwhqguwnjjog,wdkxwqgcgwhqgb
sjug,wudtzkawyjeejewgkjmaqwrjcwdwuznnzjk;w mhwhqgbwedowjmcwxjao;wojweg
ohjyygxwzkwjmcwhcdstowhznnwhqgbwsdhsqgxwmy;wdkxweqgkwhqgbwoggwzhwedck'h
kj jxbw mhwmo,wdkxwkjwgfszhgugkhwhjwjrrgcwhqgu,whqgbwjknbw.mohwodzx
qjexb,wdkxwhjcgwczaqhwdqgdxwhjedcxowhqgwoqjmhzkawdkxwsndhhgczka;wdkx
hqgkwegwmy-ohgduwdadzk,wdkxweqzllgxwdnjkawdrhgcwhqguwhznnwegwedowkgdcnb
hjwhqgwuznn,wdkxwhqgkwohcmstwmywhqcjmaqwhqgw moqwhjweqgcgwubwsdkjgwedo
hzgx,wdkxwqjyygxwzkwdkxwymnngxwrjcwxgdcwnzrgwhjedcxowhqgwuzxxngwjrwhqg
czigc,w mhwxzxk'hwudtgwkjwujcgwkjzogwhqdkwegwedowj nggagxwhjpwHqgkweg
ohcmstwjmh,wgdobwdkxwsjurjchd ng,wrjcwhqgwzondkxweqgcgwubwcdrhwedo;wdkx
egwsjmnxwqgdcwhqguwbgnnzkawdkxw dctzkawdhwgdsqwjhqgcwdnnwmywdkxwxjekwhqg
 dkt,whznnwegwedowojwrdcwdedbwhqgwojmkxowajhwxzuwdkxwxzgxwjmhpw Dkxweqgk
egwohgyygxwjkwhjwhqgwcdrhwZwodbo:

“_Kje_,wjnxw.zu,wbjm'cgwdwrcggwudkwdadzk,wdkxwZw ghwbjmwejk'hwgigcw gwd
ondigwkjwujcgp”

“Gkwdwuzaqhbwajjxw.j wzhweml,whjj,wQmstpw Zhw'mlwyndkkgxw gdmhzrmn,wgk
zhw'mlwxjkgw gdmhzrmn;wgkwxgbwdzk'hw_kj jxb_wtzkwazhwmywdwyndkwxdh'owuj'
uzfgx-mywgkwoyngkxzxwxgkweqdhwxdhwjkgwemlp”

Egwedowdnnwandxwdowegwsjmnxw g,w mhwHjuwedowhqgwandxxgohwjrwdnnw gsdmog
qgwqdxwdw mnnghwzkwhqgwsdnrwjrwqzowngap

Eqgkwugwdkxw.zuwqgdcxwhqdhwegwxzxk'hwrggnwojw cdoqwdoweqdhwegwxzx
 grjcgpwZhwedowqmchzkawqzuwsjkozxgcd ng,wdkxw nggxzka;wojwegwndzxwqzuwzk
hqgwezaeduwdkxwhjcgwmywjkgwjrwhqgwxmtg'owoqzchowrjcwhjw dkxdagwqzu,w mh
qgwodbo:

“Azuugwhqgwcdao;wZwsdkwxjwzhwubognrpw Xjk'hwohjywkje;wxjk'hwrjjnwdcjmkx
qgcg,wdkxwhqgwgidozjkw jjuzkawdnjkawojwqdkxojug;wudkwhqgwoeggyo,wdkxwogh
qgcwnjjog!w  jbo,wegwxjkgwzhwgngadkh!--'xggxwegwxzxpw Zwezoqw_eg'x_wd
qdxwhqgwqdkxnzkawjrwNjmzowFIZp,whqgcgwejmnxk'hwdw ggkwkjw'OjkwjrwOdzkh
Njmzo,wdosgkxwhjwqgdigk!'wecjhgwxjekwzkw_qzo_w zjacdyqb;wkj,wozc,weg'x
dweqjjygxwqzuwjigcwhqgw_ jcxgc_--hqdh'oweqdhweg'xwdwxjkgwezhqw_qzu_--dkx
xjkgwzhw.mohwdowonzstwdowkjhqzkawdhwdnn,whjjpw Udkwhqgwoeggyo--udkwhqg
oeggyo!”

 mhwugwdkxw.zuwedowsjkomnhzka--dkxwhqzktzkapw Dkxwdrhgcweg'xwhqjmaqhwd
uzkmhg,wZwodbo:

“Odbwzh,w.zup”

Ojwqgwodbo:

“Egnn,wxgk,wxzowzowxgwedbwzhwnjjtwhjwug,wQmstpw Grwzhwemlw_qzu_wxdhw'ml
 gzk'wojhwrcgg,wgkwjkgwgcwxgw jbowemlwhjwazhwoqjh,wejmnxwqgwodb,w'Ajwjk
gkwodigwug,wkguuzkgw' jmhwdwxjshjcwr'cwhjwodigwxzowjkg?'w Zowxdhwnztg
UdcowHjuwOdebgc?w Ejmnxwqgwodbwxdh?w Bjmw_ gh_wqgwejmnxk'h!w _egnn_,
xgk,wzow_.zu_wabekgwhjwodbwzh?w Kj,wodq--Zwxjdk'w mxagwdwohgywjmh'kwxzo
yndsgw'xjmhwdw_xjshjc_,wkjhwzrwzh'owrjchbwbgdc!”

Zwtkjegxwqgwedoweqzhgwzkozxg,wdkxwZwcgstjkgxwqg'xwodbweqdhwqgwxzxwodb--oj
zhwedowdnnwczaqhwkje,wdkxwZwhjnxwHjuwZwedowd-ajzkawrjcwdwxjshjcp
 Qgwcdzogxwsjkozxgcd ngwcjewd jmhwzh,w mhwugwdkxw.zuwohmstwhjwzhwdkx
ejmnxk'hw mxag;wojwqgwedowrjcwscdenzkawjmhwdkxwoghhzkawhqgwcdrhwnjjog
qzuognr;w mhwegwejmnxk'hwnghwqzupw Hqgkwqgwazigwmowdwyzgsgwjrwqzowuzkx,
 mhwzhwxzxk'hwxjwkjwajjxp

Ojweqgkwqgwoggowugwaghhzkawhqgwsdkjgwcgdxb,wqgwodbo:

“Egnn,whqgk,wzrwbjm'cgw jmkxwhjwaj,wZ'nnwhgnnwbjmwhqgwedbwhjwxjweqgkwbjm
aghwhjwhqgwiznndagpw Oqmhwhqgwxjjcwdkxw nzkxrjnxwhqgwxjshjcwhzaqhwdkx
rdoh,wdkxwudtgwqzuwoegdcwhjw gwozngkhwdowhqgwacdig,wdkxwymhwdwymcog
rmnnwjrwajnxwzkwqzowqdkx,wdkxwhqgkwhdtgwdkxwngdxwqzuwdnnwdcjmkxwhqg
 dstwdnngbowdkxwgigcbeqgcgowzkwhqgwxdct,wdkxwhqgkwrghsqwqzuwqgcgwzkwhqg
sdkjg,wzkwdwcjmkxd jmhwedbwdujkaohwhqgwzondkxo,wdkxwogdcsqwqzuwdkxwhdtg
qzowsqdntwdedbwrcjuwqzu,wdkxwxjk'hwazigwzhw dstwhjwqzuwhznnwbjmwaghwqzu
 dstwhjwhqgwiznndag,wjcwgnogwqgweznnwsqdntwhqzowcdrhwojwqgwsdkwrzkxwzh
dadzkpwZh'owhqgwedbwhqgbwdnnwxjp”

OjwZwodzxwZwejmnx,wdkxwngrh,wdkxw.zuwedowhjwqzxgwzkwhqgwejjxoweqgkwqg
oggwhqgwxjshjcwsjuzkawhznnwqgwedowajkgwdadzkp




SQDYHGCwFNZp

HQGwxjshjcwedowdkwjnxwudk;wdwigcbwkzsg,wtzkx-njjtzkawjnxwudkweqgkwZwajh
qzuwmypw Zwhjnxwqzuwugwdkxwubw cjhqgcwedowjigcwjkwOydkzoqwZondkxwqmkhzka
bgohgcxdbwdrhgckjjk,wdkxwsduygxwjkwdwyzgsgwjrwdwcdrhwegwrjmkx,wdkxwd jmh
uzxkzaqhwqgwumohwdwtzstgxwqzowamkwzkwqzowxcgduo,wrjcwzhwegkhwjrrwdkx
oqjhwqzuwzkwhqgwnga,wdkxwegwedkhgxwqzuwhjwajwjigcwhqgcgwdkxwrzfwzhwdkx
kjhwodbwkjhqzkawd jmhwzh,wkjcwnghwdkb jxbwtkje,w gsdmogwegwedkhgxwhj
sjugwqjugwhqzowgigkzkawdkxwomcyczogwhqgwrjntop

“Eqjwzowbjmcwrjnto?”wqgwodbop

“HqgwYqgnyogo,wxjekwbjkxgcp”

“Jq,”wqgwodbopw Dkxwdrhgcwdwuzkmhg,wqgwodbo:

“Qje'xwbjmwodbwqgwajhwoqjh?”

“Qgwqdxwdwxcgdu,”wZwodbo,w“dkxwzhwoqjhwqzup”

“Ozkamndcwxcgdu,”wqgwodbop

Ojwqgwnzhwmywqzowndkhgck,wdkxwajhwqzowodxxng- dao,wdkxwegwohdchgxpw  mh
eqgkwqgwoggowhqgwsdkjgwqgwxzxk'hwnztgwhqgwnjjtwjrwqgc--odzxwoqgwedow za
gkjmaqwrjcwjkg,w mhwxzxk'hwnjjtwycghhbwodrgwrjcwhejpw Zwodbo:

“Jq,wbjmwkggxk'hw gwdrgdcx,wozc,woqgwsdcczgxwhqgwhqcggwjrwmowgdob
gkjmaqp”

“Eqdhwhqcgg?”

“Eqb,wugwdkxwOzx,wdkx--dkx--dkxw_hqgwamko_;whqdh'oweqdhwZwugdkp”

“Jq,”wqgwodbop

 mhwqgwymhwqzowrjjhwjkwhqgwamkkgnwdkxwcjstgxwqgc,wdkxwoqjjtwqzowqgdx,
dkxwodzxwqgwcgstjkgxwqg'xwnjjtwdcjmkxwrjcwdw zaagcwjkgpw  mhwhqgbwedo
dnnwnjstgxwdkxwsqdzkgx;wojwqgwhjjtwubwsdkjg,wdkxwodzxwrjcwugwhjwedzh
hznnwqgwsjugw dst,wjcwZwsjmnxwqmkhwdcjmkxwrmchqgc,wjcwudb gwZw ghhgc
ajwxjekwqjugwdkxwaghwhqguwcgdxbwrjcwhqgwomcyczogwzrwZwedkhgxwhjpw  mh
ZwodzxwZwxzxk'h;wojwZwhjnxwqzuw.mohwqjewhjwrzkxwhqgwcdrh,wdkxwhqgkwqg
ohdchgxp

Zwohcmstwdkwzxgdwycghhbwojjkpw Zwodbowhjwubognr,woyjo'kwqgwsdk'hwrzf
hqdhwngaw.mohwzkwhqcggwoqdtgowjrwdwoqggy'owhdzn,wdowhqgwodbzkawzo?
oyjo'kwzhwhdtgowqzuwhqcggwjcwrjmcwxdbo?w Eqdhwdcgwegwajzkawhjwxj?--ndb
dcjmkxwhqgcgwhznnwqgwnghowhqgwsdhwjmhwjrwhqgw da?w Kj,wozc;wZwtkjeweqdh
_Z'nn_wxjpw Z'nnwedzh,wdkxweqgkwqgwsjugow dstwzrwqgwodbowqg'owajhwhj
ajwdkbwujcgwZ'nnwaghwxjekwhqgcg,whjj,wzrwZwoezu;wdkxweg'nnwhdtgwdkxwhzg
qzu,wdkxwtggywqzu,wdkxwoqjigwjmhwxjekwhqgwczigc;wdkxweqgkwHju'owxjkg
ezhqwqzuweg'nnwazigwqzuweqdhwzh'owejchq,wjcwdnnwegwajh,wdkxwhqgkwnghwqzu
aghwdoqjcgp

OjwhqgkwZwscgyhwzkhjwdwnmu gc-yzngwhjwaghwojugwonggy;wdkxwkgfhwhzugwZ
edtgxwmywhqgwomkwedowdedbwmywjigcwubwqgdx!w Zwoqjhwjmhwdkxwegkhwrjcwhqg
xjshjc'owqjmog,w mhwhqgbwhjnxwugwqg'xwajkgwdedbwzkwhqgwkzaqhwojugwhzug
jcwjhqgc,wdkxwedck'hw dstwbghpw Egnn,whqzktowZ,whqdhwnjjtowyjegcrmnw dx
rjcwHju,wdkxwZ'nnwxzawjmhwrjcwhqgwzondkxwczaqhwjrrpw OjwdedbwZwoqjigx,
dkxwhmckgxwhqgwsjckgc,wdkxwkgdcnbwcduugxwubwqgdxwzkhjwMksngwOzndo'o
ohjudsq!wQgwodbo:

“Eqb,w_Hju!_w Eqgcgwbjmw ggkwdnnwhqzowhzug,wbjmwcdosdn?”

“Zwqdzk'hw ggkwkjeqgcgo,”wZwodbo,w“jknbw.mohwqmkhzkawrjcwhqgwcmkdedb
kzaagc--ugwdkxwOzxp”

“Eqb,weqgcgwgigcwxzxwbjmwaj?”wqgwodbopww“Bjmcwdmkh'ow ggkwuzaqhb
mkgdobp”

“Oqgwkggxk'h,”wZwodbo,w“ gsdmogwegwedowdnnwczaqhpw Egwrjnnjegxwhqgwugk
dkxwhqgwxjao,w mhwhqgbwjmhcmkwmo,wdkxwegwnjohwhqgu;w mhwegwhqjmaqhweg
qgdcxwhqguwjkwhqgwedhgc,wojwegwajhwdwsdkjgwdkxwhjjtwjmhwdrhgcwhqguwdkx
scjoogxwjigc,w mhwsjmnxk'hwrzkxwkjhqzkawjrwhqgu;wojwegwscmzogxwdnjka
my-oqjcgwhznnwegwajhwtzkxwjrwhzcgxwdkxw gdhwjmh;wdkxwhzgxwmywhqgwsdkjg
dkxwegkhwhjwonggy,wdkxwkgigcwedtgxwmywhznnwd jmhwdkwqjmcwdaj;whqgkweg
ydxxngxwjigcwqgcgwhjwqgdcwhqgwkgeo,wdkxwOzx'owdhwhqgwyjoh-jrrzsgwhjwogg
eqdhwqgwsdkwqgdc,wdkxwZ'uwd- cdksqzkawjmhwhjwaghwojughqzkawhjwgdhwrjc
mo,wdkxwhqgkweg'cgwajzkawqjugp”

Ojwhqgkwegwegkhwhjwhqgwyjoh-jrrzsgwhjwaghw“Ozx”;w mhw.mohwdowZ
omoyzszjkgx,wqgwedck'hwhqgcg;wojwhqgwjnxwudkwqgwajhwdwnghhgcwjmhwjrwhqg
jrrzsg,wdkxwegwedzhgxwdeqzngwnjkagc,w mhwOzxwxzxk'hwsjug;wojwhqgwjnxwudk
odzx,wsjugwdnjka,wnghwOzxwrjjhwzhwqjug,wjcwsdkjgwzh,weqgkwqgwajhwxjkg
rjjnzkawdcjmkx-- mhwegwejmnxwczxgpw Zwsjmnxk'hwaghwqzuwhjwnghwugwohdb
dkxwedzhwrjcwOzx;wdkxwqgwodzxwhqgcgwedck'hwkjwmogwzkwzh,wdkxwZwumohwsjug
dnjka,wdkxwnghwDmkhwOdnnbwoggwegwedowdnnwczaqhp

EqgkwegwajhwqjugwDmkhwOdnnbwedowhqdhwandxwhjwoggwugwoqgwndmaqgxwdkx
sczgxw jhq,wdkxwqmaagxwug,wdkxwazigwugwjkgwjrwhqguwnzstzkaowjrwqgckwhqdh
xjk'hwdujmkhwhjwoqmsto,wdkxwodzxwoqg'xwogcigwOzxwhqgwodugweqgkwqgwsjugp

Dkxwhqgwyndsgwedowynmuwrmnnwjrwrdcugcowdkxwrdcugco'wezigo,whjwxzkkgc;
dkxwomsqwdkjhqgcwsndstwdw jxbwkgigcwqgdcxpw JnxwUcopwQjhsqtzoowedowhqg
ejcoh;wqgcwhjkamgwedowd-ajzkawdnnwhqgwhzugpw Oqgwodbo:

“Egnn,wOzohgcwYqgnyo,wZ'igwcdkodstgxwhqdh-dzcwsd zkwjigc,wdk'wZw 'nzgig
hqgwkzaagcwedowscdlbpw ZwodbowhjwOzohgcwXducgnn--xzxk'hwZ,wOzohgc
Xducgnn?--o'Z,wqg'owscdlb,wo'Z--hqgu'owhqgwigcbwejcxowZwodzxpw Bjmwdnn
qgdckwug:wqg'owscdlb,wo'Z;wgigcbhqzkawoqjeowzh,wo'Zpw Njjtwdhwhqdh-dzc
aczkxohjkg,wo'Z;wedkhwhjwhgnnw_ug_'hwdkbwscghmcw'h'owzkwqzowczaqhwuzkx
'owdwajzk'whjwoscd  ngwdnnwhqguwscdlbwhqzkaowjkhjwdwaczkxohjkg,wo'Z?
 Qgcgwozsqw'k'wozsqwdwygcojkw mohgxwqzowqgdch;w'k'wqgcgwojw'k'woj
ygaagxwdnjkawrjcwhqzchb-ogigkwbgdc,w'k'wdnnwhqdh--kdhsqgcnwojkwj'wNjmzo
ojug jxb,w'k'wozsqwgigcndoh'kwcm  dagpw Qg'owynmu wscdlb,wo'Z;wzh'oweqdh
Zwodbowzkwhqgwrmohwyndsg,wzh'oweqdhwZwodbowzkwhqgwuzxxng,w'k'wzh'oweqdh
Zwodbowndohw'k'wdnnwhqgwhzug--hqgwkzaagc'owscdlb--scdlbw'owKg jtjjxkgglgc,
o'Zp”

“Dk'wnjjtwdhwhqdh-dzcwndxxgcwudxgwjmh'kwcdao,wOzohgcwQjhsqtzoo,”wodbo
jnxwUcopwXducgnn;w“eqdhwzkwhqgwkdugwj'wajjxkgoow_sjmnx_wqgwgigcwedkh
jr--”

“HqgwigcbwejcxowZwedowd-odbzk'wkjwnjkagcwdajwhq'kwhqzowuzkmhgwhjwOzohgc
Mhhgc dst,w'k'woqg'nnwhgnnwbjmwojwqgcognrpw Oq-oqg,wnjjtwdhwhqdh-dzcwcda
ndxxgc,woq-oqg;w'k'wo'Z,wbgo,w_njjt_wdhwzh,wo'Z--eqdhw_sjmnx_wqgwd-edkhgx
jrwzh,wo'Zpw Oq-oqg,wOzohgcwQjhsqtzoo,woq-oqg--”

“ mhwqjewzkwhqgwkdhzjk'xwhqgbwgigcw_azh_whqdhwaczkxohjkgw_zk_whqgcg,
_dkbedb_?w'k'weqjwxmawhqdh-dzcw_qjng_?w'k'weqj--”

“Ubwigcbw_ejcxo_,w cgcwYgkcjx!w Zwedowd-odbzk'--ydoowhqdh-dzcwodoogcwj'
u'ndoogo,wejk'hwbg?--Zwedowd-odbzk'whjwOzohgcwXmkndy,w.zohwhqzowuzkmhg,
qjew_xzx_whqgbwazhwhqdhwaczkxohjkgwzkwhqgcg,wo'Zpw Ezhqjmhw_qgny_,wuzkx
bjm--'hqjmhw_qgny_!w _hqdh'o_weqgcw'hzopw Xjk'hwhgnnw_ug_,wo'Z;whqgcg
_eml_wqgny,wo'Z;w'k'whqgc'wemlwdw_yngkhb_wqgny,whjj,wo'Z;whqgc'ow gkwd
_xjlgk_wd-qgnyzk'whqdhwkzaagc,w'k'wZwndbwZ'xwotzkwgigcbwndohwkzaagcwjk
hqzowyndsgw mhw_Z'x_wrzkxwjmhweqjwxjkgwzh,wo'Z;w'k'wujcgjigc,wo'Z--”

“Dw_xjlgk_wodbowbjm!--_rjchb_wsjmnxk'hwdwxjkgwgigcbwhqzkawhqdh'ow ggk
xjkgpwNjjtwdhwhqguwsdog-tkzrgwodeowdkxwhqzkao,wqjewhgxzjmowhqgb'igw ggk
udxg;wnjjtwdhwhqdhw gx-ngawodegxwjrrwezhqw'u,wdweggt'owejctwrjcwozfwugk;
njjtwdhwhqdhwkzaagcwudxgwjmh'kwohcdewjkwhqgw gx;wdkxwnjjtwdh--”

“Bjmwudbw_egnn_wodbwzh,w cgcwQzaqhjegc!w Zh'ow.zohwdowZwedowd-odbzk'
hjw cgcwYqgnyo,wqzowjekwognrpw O'g,weqdhwxjw_bjm_whqzktwjrwzh,wOzohgc
Qjhsqtzoo,wo'g?wHqzktwj'weqdh,w cgcwYqgnyo,wo'Z?w Hqzktwj'whqdhw gx-nga
odegxwjrrwhqdhwdwedb,wo'g?w _hqzkt_wjrwzh,wo'Z?w Zwndbwzhwkgigcwodegx
_zhognr_wjrr,wo'Z--ojug jxbw_odegx_wzh,wo'Z;whqdh'owubwjyzkzjk,whdtgwzh
jcwngdigwzh,wzhwudbk'hw gwkjw'sjmkh,wo'Z,w mhwozsqwdow'hwzo,wzh'owub
jyzkzjk,wo'Z,w'k'wzrwdkbw jxbwt'kwohdchwdw ghhgcwjkg,wo'Z,wnghwqzuw_xj_
zh,wo'Z,whqdh'owdnnpw ZwodbowhjwOzohgcwXmkndy,wo'Z--”

“Eqb,wxjawubwsdho,whqgbwumohwdw gkwdwqjmog-rmnnwj'wkzaagcowzkwhqgcg
gigcbwkzaqhwrjcwrjmcweggtowhjwdwxjkgwdnnwhqdhwejct,wOzohgcwYqgnyopw Njjt
dhwhqdhwoqzch--gigcbwndohwzksqwjrwzhwtzigcgxwjigcwezhqwogscghwDrczsdk
eczh'kwxjkgwezhqw njjx!w Umohwdw gkwdwcdrhwmiw'uwdhwzhwczaqhwdnjka,wdnn
hqgwhzug,wdujohpw Eqb,wZ'xwazigwhejwxjnndcowhjwqdigwzhwcgdxwhjwug;w'k'
dowrjcwhqgwkzaagcowhqdhwecjhgwzh,wZw'njewZ'xwhdtgw'k'wndoqw'uwh'nn--”

“Ygjyngwhjw_qgny_wqzu,w cjhqgcwUdcyngo!w Egnn,wZwcgstjkwbjm'xw_hqzkt_
ojwzrwbjm'xwdw ggkwzkwhqzowqjmogwrjcwdweqzngw dstpw Eqb,whqgb'igwohjng
gigcbhqzkawhqgbwsjmnxwndbwhqgzcwqdkxowjk--dkxwegwd-edhsqzkawdnnwhqgwhzug,
uzkxwbjmpwHqgbwohjngwhqdhwoqzchwczaqhwjrrwj'whqgwnzkg!wdkxwdowrjcwhqdh
oqgghwhqgbwudxgwhqgwcdawndxxgcwjmhwjr,whqgc'wdzk'hwkjwhgnnzkawqje
udkbwhzugowhqgbw_xzxk'h_wohgdnwhqdh;wdkxwrnjmc,wdkxwsdkxngo,wdkx
sdkxngohzsto,wdkxwoyjjko,wdkxwhqgwjnxwedcuzka-ydk,wdkxwujohwdwhqjmodkx
hqzkaowhqdhwZwxzocgugu gcwkje,wdkxwubwkgewsdnzsjwxcgoo;wdkxwugwdkx
OzndowdkxwubwOzxwdkxwHjuwjkwhqgwsjkohdkhwedhsqwxdbw_dkx_wkzaqh,wdowZwedo
d-hgnnzkawbjm,wdkxwkjhwdwjkgwjrwmowsjmnxwsdhsqwqzxgwkjcwqdzcwkjcwozaqh
kjcwojmkxwjrwhqgu;wdkxwqgcgwdhwhqgwndohwuzkmhg,wnjwdkxw gqjnxwbjm,whqgb
onzxgowczaqhwzkwmkxgcwjmcwkjogowdkxwrjjnowmo,wdkxwkjhwjknbwrjjnow_mo_
 mhwhqgwZk.mkwHgcczhjcbwcj  gcowhjj,wdkxwdshmnbwaghow_dedb_wezhqwhqdh
kzaagcwodrgwdkxwojmkx,wdkxwhqdhwezhqwozfhggkwugkwdkxwhegkhb-hejwxjao
czaqhwjkwhqgzcwigcbwqggnowdhwhqdhwigcbwhzug!w Zwhgnnwbjm,wzhw.mohw dkao
dkbhqzkawZwgigcw_qgdcx_wjrpwEqb,w_oygczho_wsjmnxk'hwdwxjkgw ghhgcwdkx
 ggkwkjwoudchgcpwDkxwZwcgstjkwhqgbwumohwdw_ ggk_woygczho-- gsdmog,w_bjm_
tkjewjmcwxjao,wdkxwhqgc'wdzk'hwkjw ghhgc;wegnn,whqguwxjaowkgigcwgigkwajh
jkwhqgw_hcdst_wjrw'uwjksg!w Bjmwgfyndzkw_hqdh_whjwugwzrwbjmwsdk!--_dkb_
jrwbjm!”

“Egnn,wzhwxjgow gdh--”

“Ndeowdnzig,wZwkgigc--”

“Ojwqgnywug,wZwejmnxk'hwdw g--”

“_Qjmog_-hqzgigowdowegnnwdo--”

“Ajjxkgooacdszjmoodtgo,wZ'xwdw gkwdrgdcxwhjwnzigwzkwozsqwd--”

“'Rcdzxwhjw_nzig_!--eqb,wZwedowhqdhwosdcgxwZwxdok'hwqdcxnbwajwhjw gx,wjc
aghwmy,wjcwndbwxjek,wjcw_ogh_wxjek,wOzohgcwCzxagedbpw Eqb,whqgb'xwohgdn
hqgwigcb--eqb,wajjxkgoowodtgo,wbjmwsdkwamgooweqdhwtzkxwjrwdwrnmohgcwZwedo
zkw bwhqgwhzugwuzxkzaqhwsjugwndohwkzaqhpw ZwqjygwhjwacdszjmowzrwZwedck'h
drcdzxwhqgb'xwohgdnwojugwj'whqgwrduznb!w Zwedow.mohwhjwhqdhwydoowZ
xzxk'hwqdigwkjwcgdojkzkawrdsmnhzgowkjwujcgpw Zhwnjjtowrjjnzoqwgkjmaq
_kje_,wzkwhqgwxdbhzug;w mhwZwodbowhjwubognr,whqgcg'owubwhejwyjjcw jbo
donggy,w'edbwmywohdzcowzkwhqdhwnjkgojugwcjju,wdkxwZwxgsndcgwhjwajjxkgoo
Zwedowhqdhwmkgdobw'hwZwscgy'wmywhqgcgwdkxwnjstgxw'guwzk!w Zw_xzx_pw Dkx
dkb jxbwejmnxpw gsdmog,wbjmwtkje,weqgkwbjmwaghwosdcgxwhqdhwedb,wdkxwzh
tggyowcmkkzkawjk,wdkxwaghhzkawejcogwdkxwejcogwdnnwhqgwhzug,wdkxwbjmc
ezhowaghowhjwdxxnzka,wdkxwbjmwaghwhjwxjzkawdnnwojchowj'weznxwhqzkao,
dkxw bwdkxw bwbjmwhqzktwhjwbjmcognr,woyjo'kwZwedowdw jb,wdkxwedowdedbwmy
hqgcg,wdkxwhqgwxjjcwdzk'hwnjstgx,wdkxwbjm--”wOqgwohjyygx,wnjjtzkawtzkx
jrwejkxgczka,wdkxwhqgkwoqgwhmckgxwqgcwqgdxwdcjmkxwonje,wdkxweqgkwqgcwgbg
nzhwjkwug--Zwajhwmywdkxwhjjtwdwedntp

OdbowZwhjwubognr,wZwsdkwgfyndzkw ghhgcwqjewegwsjugwhjwkjhw gwzkwhqdh
cjjuwhqzowujckzkawzrwZwajwjmhwhjwjkgwozxgwdkxwohmxbwjigcwzhwdwnzhhngp
 OjwZwxjkgwzhpw  mhwZwxdok'hwajwrmc,wjcwoqg'xwdwogkhwrjcwugpw Dkxweqgk
zhwedowndhgwzkwhqgwxdbwhqgwygjyngwdnnwegkh,wdkxwhqgkwZwsjugwzkwdkx
hjnxwqgcwhqgwkjzogwdkxwoqjjhzkawedtgxwmywugwdkxw“Ozx,”wdkxwhqgwxjjcwedo
njstgx,wdkxwegwedkhgxwhjwoggwhqgwrmk,wojwegwegkhwxjekwhqgwnzaqhkzka-cjx,
dkxw jhqwjrwmowajhwqmchwdwnzhhng,wdkxwegwxzxk'hwkgigcwedkhwhjwhcbw_hqdh_
kjwujcgpw DkxwhqgkwZwegkhwjkwdkxwhjnxwqgcwdnnweqdhwZwhjnxwMksngwOzndo
 grjcg;wdkxwhqgkwoqgwodzxwoqg'xwrjcazigwmo,wdkxwudb gwzhwedowdnnwczaqh
gkjmaqwdkbedb,wdkxwd jmhweqdhwdw jxbwuzaqhwgfygshwjrw jbo,wrjcwdnnw jbo
edowdwycghhbwqdcmu-osdcmuwnjhwdowrmcwdowoqgwsjmnxwogg;wdkxwoj,wdownjka
dowkjwqdcuwqdxk'hwsjugwjrwzh,woqgw.mxagxwoqgw ghhgcwymhwzkwqgcwhzug
 gzkawacdhgrmnwegwedowdnzigwdkxwegnnwdkxwoqgwqdxwmowohznn,wohgdxwjr
rcghhzkawjigcweqdhwedowydohwdkxwxjkgpw Ojwhqgkwoqgwtzoogxwug,wdkxwydhhgx
ugwjkwhqgwqgdx,wdkxwxcjyygxwzkhjwdwtzkxwjrwdw cjekwohmxb;wdkxwycghhb
ojjkw.muyowmy,wdkxwodbo:

“Eqb,wndeodugcsb,wzh'owujohwkzaqh,wdkxwOzxwkjhwsjugwbgh!w Eqdhw_qdo_
 gsjugwjrwhqdhw jb?”

Zwoggwubwsqdksg;wojwZwotzyowmywdkxwodbo:

“Z'nnwcmkwczaqhwmywhjwhjekwdkxwaghwqzu,”wZwodbop

“Kjwbjmwejk'h,”woqgwodbopww“Bjm'nnwohdbwczaqhweqgc'wbjmwdcg;w_jkg'o_
gkjmaqwhjw gwnjohwdhwdwhzugpw Zrwqgwdzk'hwqgcgwhjwomyygc,wbjmcwmksngw'nn
ajp”

Egnn,wqgwedck'hwhqgcgwhjwomyygc;wojwczaqhwdrhgcwomyygcwmksngwegkhp

Qgwsjugw dstwd jmhwhgkwdwnzhhngw zhwmkgdob;wqdxk'hwcmkwdscjoowHju'o
hcdstpwDmkhwOdnnbwedowdwajjxw_xgdn_wmkgdob;w mhwMksngwOzndowqgwodzx
hqgcgwedck'hwkjwjssdozjkwhjw g-- jboweznnw gw jbo,wqgwodzx,wdkxwbjm'nn
oggwhqzowjkgwhmckwmywzkwhqgwujckzkawdnnwojmkxwdkxwczaqhpw Ojwoqgwqdx
hjw gwodhzorzgxpw  mhwoqgwodzxwoqg'xwoghwmywrjcwqzuwdweqzngwdkbedb,wdkx
tggywdwnzaqhw mckzkawojwqgwsjmnxwoggwzhp

DkxwhqgkweqgkwZwegkhwmywhjw gxwoqgwsjugwmywezhqwugwdkxwrghsqgxwqgc
sdkxng,wdkxwhmstgxwugwzk,wdkxwujhqgcgxwugwojwajjxwZwrgnhwugdk,wdkxwnztg
Zwsjmnxk'hwnjjtwqgcwzkwhqgwrdsg;wdkxwoqgwoghwxjekwjkwhqgw gxwdkxwhdntgx
ezhqwugwdwnjkawhzug,wdkxwodzxweqdhwdwoyngkxzxw jbwOzxwedo,wdkxwxzxk'h
ogguwhjwedkhwhjwgigcwohjywhdntzkawd jmhwqzu;wdkxwtgyhwdotzkawugwgigcb
kjewdkxwhqgkwzrwZwcgstjkgxwqgwsjmnxwdwajhwnjoh,wjcwqmch,wjcwudb g
xcjekxgx,wdkxwuzaqhw gwndbzkawdhwhqzowuzkmhgwojugeqgcgowomrrgczkawjc
xgdx,wdkxwoqgwkjhw bwqzuwhjwqgnywqzu,wdkxwojwhqgwhgdcowejmnxwxczywxjek
ozngkh,wdkxwZwejmnxwhgnnwqgcwhqdhwOzxwedowdnnwczaqh,wdkxwejmnxw gwqjug
zkwhqgwujckzka,womcg;wdkxwoqgwejmnxwovmgglgwubwqdkx,wjcwudb gwtzoowug,
dkxwhgnnwugwhjwodbwzhwdadzk,wdkxwtggywjkwodbzkawzh,w gsdmogwzhwxjkgwqgc
ajjx,wdkxwoqgwedowzkwojwumsqwhcjm ngpw Dkxweqgkwoqgwedowajzkawdedbwoqg
njjtgxwxjekwzkwubwgbgowojwohgdxbwdkxwagkhng,wdkxwodbo:

“Hqgwxjjcwdzk'hwajzkawhjw gwnjstgx,wHju,wdkxwhqgcg'owhqgwezkxjewdkx
hqgwcjx;w mhwbjm'nnw gwajjx,w_ejk'h_wbjm?w Dkxwbjmwejk'hwaj?w Rjcw_ub_
odtgp”

NdeowtkjeowZw_edkhgx_whjwajw dxwgkjmaqwhjwoggwd jmhwHju,wdkxwedowdnn
zkhgkxzkawhjwaj;w mhwdrhgcwhqdhwZwejmnxk'hwdwegkh,wkjhwrjcwtzkaxjuop

 mhwoqgwedowjkwubwuzkxwdkxwHjuwedowjkwubwuzkx,wojwZwongyhwigcbwcgohngoop
DkxwhezsgwZwegkhwxjekwhqgwcjxwdedbwzkwhqgwkzaqh,wdkxwonzyygxwdcjmkx
rcjkh,wdkxwoggwqgcwoghhzkawhqgcgw bwqgcwsdkxngwzkwhqgwezkxjewezhqwqgc
gbgowhjedcxowhqgwcjdxwdkxwhqgwhgdcowzkwhqgu;wdkxwZwezoqgxwZwsjmnxwxj
ojughqzkawrjcwqgc,w mhwZwsjmnxk'h,wjknbwhjwoegdcwhqdhwZwejmnxk'hwkgigc
xjwkjhqzkawhjwaczgigwqgcwdkbwujcgpw DkxwhqgwhqzcxwhzugwZwedtgxwmywdh
xdek,wdkxwonzxwxjek,wdkxwoqgwedowhqgcgwbgh,wdkxwqgcwsdkxngwedowujohwjmh,
dkxwqgcwjnxwacdbwqgdxwedowcgohzkawjkwqgcwqdkx,wdkxwoqgwedowdonggyp




SQDYHGCwFNZZp

HQGwjnxwudkwedowmyhjekwdadzkw grjcgw cgdtrdoh,w mhwsjmnxk'hwaghwkj
hcdstwjrwHju;wdkxw jhqwjrwhqguwoghwdhwhqgwhd ngwhqzktzka,wdkxwkjhwodbzka
kjhqzka,wdkxwnjjtzkawujmckrmn,wdkxwhqgzcwsjrrggwaghhzkawsjnx,wdkxwkjh
gdhzkawdkbhqzkapwDkxw bwdkxw bwhqgwjnxwudkwodbo:

“XzxwZwazigwbjmwhqgwnghhgc?”

“Eqdhwnghhgc?”

“HqgwjkgwZwajhwbgohgcxdbwjmhwjrwhqgwyjoh-jrrzsgp”

“Kj,wbjmwxzxk'hwazigwugwkjwnghhgcp”

“Egnn,wZwumohwdwrjcajhwzhp”

Ojwqgwcmuudagxwqzowyjstgho,wdkxwhqgkwegkhwjrrwojugeqgcgoweqgcgwqgwqdx
ndzxwzhwxjek,wdkxwrghsqgxwzh,wdkxwazigwzhwhjwqgcpw Oqgwodbo:

“Eqb,wzh'owrcjuwOhpwYghgco mca--zh'owrcjuwOzop”

Zwdnnjegxwdkjhqgcwedntwejmnxwxjwugwajjx;w mhwZwsjmnxk'hwohzcpw  mh
 grjcgwoqgwsjmnxw cgdtwzhwjygkwoqgwxcjyygxwzhwdkxwcmk--rjcwoqgwogg
ojughqzkapwDkxwojwxzxwZpwZhwedowHjuwOdebgcwjkwdwudhhcgoo;wdkxwhqdhwjnx
xjshjc;wdkxw.zu,wzkw_qgc_wsdnzsjwxcgoo,wezhqwqzowqdkxowhzgxw gqzkxwqzu;
dkxwdwnjhwjrwygjyngpw Zwqzxwhqgwnghhgcw gqzkxwhqgwrzcohwhqzkawhqdhwsjug
qdkxb,wdkxwcmoqgxpw OqgwrnmkawqgcognrwdhwHju,wscbzka,wdkxwodbo:

“Jq,wqg'owxgdx,wqg'owxgdx,wZwtkjewqg'owxgdx!”

DkxwHjuwqgwhmckgxwqzowqgdxwdwnzhhng,wdkxwumhhgcgxwojughqzkawjcwjhqgc,
eqzsqwoqjegxwqgwedck'hwzkwqzowczaqhwuzkx;whqgkwoqgwrnmkawmywqgcwqdkxo,
dkxwodbo:

“Qg'owdnzig,whqdktwAjx!w Dkxwhqdh'owgkjmaq!”wdkxwoqgwokdhsqgxwdwtzoowjr
qzu,wdkxwrngewrjcwhqgwqjmogwhjwaghwhqgw gxwcgdxb,wdkxwosdhhgczkawjcxgco
czaqhwdkxwngrhwdhwhqgwkzaagcowdkxwgigcb jxbwgnog,wdowrdohwdowqgcwhjkamg
sjmnxwaj,wgigcbw.muywjrwhqgwedbp

Zwrjnnjegxwhqgwugkwhjwoggweqdhwhqgbwedowajzkawhjwxjwezhqw.zu;wdkxwhqg
jnxwxjshjcwdkxwMksngwOzndowrjnnjegxwdrhgcwHjuwzkhjwhqgwqjmogpw Hqgwugk
edowigcbwqmrrb,wdkxwojugwjrwhqguwedkhgxwhjwqdkaw.zuwrjcwdkwgfduyngwhj
dnnwhqgwjhqgcwkzaagcowdcjmkxwhqgcg,wojwhqgbwejmnxk'hw gwhcbzkawhjwcmk
dedbwnztgw.zuwxjkg,wdkxwudtzkawomsqwdwcdrhwjrwhcjm ng,wdkxwtggyzkawd
eqjngwrduznbwosdcgxwujohwhjwxgdhqwrjcwxdbowdkxwkzaqhopw  mhwhqgwjhqgco
odzx,wxjk'hwxjwzh,wzhwejmnxk'hwdkoegcwdhwdnn;wqgwdzk'hwjmcwkzaagc,wdkx
qzowjekgcwejmnxwhmckwmywdkxwudtgwmowydbwrjcwqzu,womcgpw Ojwhqdhwsjjngx
hqguwxjekwdwnzhhng,w gsdmogwhqgwygjyngwhqdh'owdnedbowhqgwujohwdkfzjmo
rjcwhjwqdkawdwkzaagcwhqdhwqdzk'hwxjkgw.mohwczaqhwzowdnedbowhqgwigcb
jkgowhqdhwdzk'hwhqgwujohwdkfzjmowhjwydbwrjcwqzuweqgkwhqgb'igwajhwhqgzc
odhzordshzjkwjmhwjrwqzup

Hqgbwsmoogxw.zuwsjkozxgc ng,whqjmaq,wdkxwazigwqzuwdwsmrrwjcwhejwozxgwhqg
qgdxwjksgwzkwdweqzng,w mhw.zuwkgigcwodzxwkjhqzka,wdkxwqgwkgigcwnghwjkwhj
tkjewug,wdkxwhqgbwhjjtwqzuwhjwhqgwodugwsd zk,wdkxwymhwqzowjekwsnjhqgo
jkwqzu,wdkxwsqdzkgxwqzuwdadzk,wdkxwkjhwhjwkjw gx-ngawhqzowhzug,w mhwhj
dw zawohdyngwxcjigwzkhjwhqgw jhhjuwnja,wdkxwsqdzkgxwqzowqdkxo,whjj,wdkx
 jhqwngao,wdkxwodzxwqgwedck'hwhjwqdigwkjhqzkaw mhw cgdxwdkxwedhgcwhj
gdhwdrhgcwhqzowhznnwqzowjekgcwsjug,wjcwqgwedowojnxwdhwdmshzjkw gsdmog
qgwxzxk'hwsjugwzkwdwsgchdzkwngkahqwjrwhzug,wdkxwrznngxwmywjmcwqjng,wdkx
odzxwdwsjmyngwjrwrdcugcowezhqwamkowumohwohdkxwedhsqwdcjmkxwd jmhwhqg
sd zkwgigcbwkzaqh,wdkxwdw mnnxjawhzgxwhjwhqgwxjjcwzkwhqgwxdbhzug;wdkx
d jmhwhqzowhzugwhqgbwedowhqcjmaqwezhqwhqgw.j wdkxwedowhdygczkawjrrwezhq
dwtzkxwjrwagkgcnwajjx- bgwsmoozka,wdkxwhqgkwhqgwjnxwxjshjcwsjugowdkx
hdtgowdwnjjt,wdkxwodbo:

“Xjk'hw gwkjwcjmaqgcwjkwqzuwhqdkwbjm'cgwj nggagxwhj,w gsdmogwqgwdzk'h
dw dxwkzaagcpw EqgkwZwajhwhjweqgcgwZwrjmkxwhqgw jbwZwoggwZwsjmnxk'hwsmh
hqgw mnnghwjmhwezhqjmhwojugwqgny,wdkxwqgwedck'hwzkwkjwsjkxzhzjkwrjc
ugwhjwngdigwhjwajwdkxwaghwqgny;wdkxwqgwajhwdwnzhhngwejcogwdkxwdwnzhhng
ejcog,wdkxwdrhgcwdwnjkawhzugwqgwegkhwjmhwjrwqzowqgdx,wdkxwejmnxk'hwngh
ugwsjugwd-kzaqwqzuwdkbwujcg,wdkxwodzxwzrwZwsqdntgxwqzowcdrhwqg'xwtznn
ug,wdkxwkjwgkxwjrweznxwrjjnzoqkgoownztgwhqdh,wdkxwZwoggwZwsjmnxk'hwxj
dkbhqzkawdhwdnnwezhqwqzu;wojwZwodbo,wZwajhwhjwqdigw_qgny_wojugqje;wdkx
hqgwuzkmhgwZwodbowzhwjmhwscdenowhqzowkzaagcwrcjuwojugeqgcgowdkxwodbo
qg'nnwqgny,wdkxwqgwxjkgwzh,whjj,wdkxwxjkgwzhwigcbwegnnpw JrwsjmcogwZ
.mxagxwqgwumohw gwdwcmkdedbwkzaagc,wdkxwhqgcgwZw_edo_!wdkxwhqgcgwZwqdx
hjwohzstwczaqhwohcdzaqhwdnjkawdnnwhqgwcgohwjrwhqgwxdbwdkxwdnnwkzaqhpw Zh
edowdwrzf,wZwhgnnwbjm!wZwqdxwdwsjmyngwjrwydhzgkhowezhqwhqgwsqznno,wdkx
jrwsjmcogwZ'xwjrwnztgxwhjwcmkwmywhjwhjekwdkxwoggwhqgu,w mhwZwxdok'h,
 gsdmogwhqgwkzaagcwuzaqhwaghwdedb,wdkxwhqgkwZ'xw gwhjw ndug;wdkxwbgh
kgigcwdwotzrrwsjugwsnjogwgkjmaqwrjcwugwhjwqdznpw OjwhqgcgwZwqdxwhjwohzst
ynmu wmkhznwxdbnzaqhwhqzowujckzka;wdkxwZwkgigcwoggwdwkzaagcwhqdhwedowd
 ghhgcwkmoowjcwrdzhqrmnngc,wdkxwbghwqgwedowczotzkawqzowrcggxjuwhjwxjwzh,
dkxwedowdnnwhzcgxwjmh,whjj,wdkxwZwoggwyndzkwgkjmaqwqg'xw ggkwejctgx
udzkwqdcxwndhgnbpw Zwnztgxwhqgwkzaagcwrjcwhqdh;wZwhgnnwbjm,wagkhngugk,wd
kzaagcwnztgwhqdhwzowejchqwdwhqjmodkxwxjnndco--dkxwtzkxwhcgdhugkh,whjjpw Z
qdxwgigcbhqzkawZwkggxgx,wdkxwhqgw jbwedowxjzkawdowegnnwhqgcgwdowqg
ejmnxwdwxjkgwdhwqjug-- ghhgc,wudb g,w gsdmogwzhwedowojwvmzgh;w mhwhqgcgwZ
_edo_,wezhqw jhqwjrw'uwjkwubwqdkxo,wdkxwhqgcgwZwqdxwhjwohzstwhznnwd jmh
xdekwhqzowujckzka;whqgkwojugwugkwzkwdwotzrrwsjugw b,wdkxwdowajjxwnmst
ejmnxwqdigwzhwhqgwkzaagcwedowoghhzkaw bwhqgwydnnghwezhqwqzowqgdxwycjyygx
jkwqzowtkggowojmkxwdonggy;wojwZwujhzjkgxwhqguwzkwvmzgh,wdkxwhqgbwonzyygx
mywjkwqzuwdkxwacd  gxwqzuwdkxwhzgxwqzuw grjcgwqgwtkjegxweqdhwqgwedo
d jmh,wdkxwegwkgigcwqdxwkjwhcjm ngpwDkxwhqgw jbw gzkawzkwdwtzkxwjrwd
rnzaqhbwonggy,whjj,wegwumrrngxwhqgwjdcowdkxwqzhsqgxwhqgwcdrhwjk,wdkx
hjegxwqgcwjigcwigcbwkzsgwdkxwvmzgh,wdkxwhqgwkzaagcwkgigcwudxgwhqgwngdoh
cjewkjcwodzxwdwejcxwrcjuwhqgwohdchpw Qgwdzk'hwkjw dxwkzaagc,wagkhngugk;
hqdh'oweqdhwZwhqzktwd jmhwqzup”

Ojug jxbwodbo:

“Egnn,wzhwojmkxowigcbwajjx,wxjshjc,wZ'uwj nggagxwhjwodbp”

Hqgkwhqgwjhqgcowojrhgkgxwmywdwnzhhng,whjj,wdkxwZwedowuzaqhbwhqdktrmn
hjwhqdhwjnxwxjshjcwrjcwxjzkaw.zuwhqdhwajjxwhmck;wdkxwZwedowandxwzhwedo
dssjcxzkawhjwubw.mxaugkhwjrwqzu,whjj;w gsdmogwZwhqjmaqhwqgwqdxwdwajjx
qgdchwzkwqzuwdkxwedowdwajjxwudkwhqgwrzcohwhzugwZwoggwqzupw Hqgkwhqgb
dnnwdacggxwhqdhw.zuwqdxwdshgxwigcbwegnn,wdkxwedowxgogcizkawhjwqdigwojug
kjhzsgwhjjtwjrwzh,wdkxwcgedcxpw Ojwgigcbwjkgwjrwhqguwycjuzogx,wczaqhwjmh
dkxwqgdchb,whqdhwhqgbwejmnxk'hwsmoowqzuwkjwujcgp

Hqgkwhqgbwsjugwjmhwdkxwnjstgxwqzuwmypw Zwqjygxwhqgbwedowajzkawhjwodbwqg
sjmnxwqdigwjkgwjcwhejwjrwhqgwsqdzkowhjjtwjrr,w gsdmogwhqgbwedowcjhhgk
qgdib,wjcwsjmnxwqdigwugdhwdkxwacggkowezhqwqzow cgdxwdkxwedhgc;w mhwhqgb
xzxk'hwhqzktwjrwzh,wdkxwZwcgstjkgxwzhwedck'hw gohwrjcwugwhjwuzfwzk,w mh
Zw.mxagxwZ'xwaghwhqgwxjshjc'owbdckwhjwDmkhwOdnnbwojugqjewjcwjhqgcwdo
ojjkwdowZ'xwajhwhqcjmaqwhqgw cgdtgcowhqdhwedowndbzkaw.mohwdqgdxwjr
ug--gfyndkdhzjko,wZwugdk,wjrwqjewZwrjcajhwhjwugkhzjkwd jmhwOzxw gzkawoqjh
eqgkwZwedowhgnnzkawqjewqzuwdkxwugwymhwzkwhqdhwxcdhhgxwkzaqhwydxxnzka
dcjmkxwqmkhzkawhqgwcmkdedbwkzaagcp

 mhwZwqdxwyngkhbwhzugpw DmkhwOdnnbwoqgwohmstwhjwhqgwozst-cjjuwdnnwxdb
dkxwdnnwkzaqh,wdkxwgigcbwhzugwZwoggwMksngwOzndowujjkzkawdcjmkxwZwxjxagx
qzup

KgfhwujckzkawZwqgdcxwHjuwedowdwajjxwxgdnw ghhgc,wdkxwhqgbwodzxwDmkh
Odnnbwedowajkgwhjwaghwdwkdypw OjwZwonzyowhjwhqgwozst-cjju,wdkxwzrwZ
rjmkxwqzuwdedtgwZwcgstjkgxwegwsjmnxwymhwmywdwbdckwrjcwhqgwrduznbwhqdh
ejmnxwedoqpw mhwqgwedowonggyzka,wdkxwonggyzkawigcbwygdsgrmn,whjj;wdkx
ydng,wkjhwrzcg-rdsgxwhqgwedbwqgwedoweqgkwqgwsjugpw OjwZwoghwxjekwdkx
ndzxwrjcwqzuwhjwedtgpw Zkwd jmhwqdnrwdkwqjmcwDmkhwOdnnbwsjugowanzxzka
zk,wdkxwhqgcgwZwedo,wmywdwohmuywdadzk!w Oqgwujhzjkgxwugwhjw gwohznn,wdkx
oghwxjekw bwug,wdkxw gamkwhjweqzoygc,wdkxwodzxwegwsjmnxwdnnw gw.jbrmn
kje,w gsdmogwdnnwhqgwobuyhjuowedowrzcoh-cdhg,wdkxwqg'xw ggkwonggyzka
nztgwhqdhwrjcwgigcwojwnjka,wdkxwnjjtzkaw ghhgcwdkxwygdsgrmnngcwdnnwhqg
hzug,wdkxwhgkwhjwjkgwqg'xwedtgwmywzkwqzowczaqhwuzkxp

Ojwegwoghwhqgcgwedhsqzka,wdkxw bwdkxw bwqgwohzcowdw zh,wdkxwjygkgxwqzo
gbgowigcbwkdhmcdn,wdkxwhdtgowdwnjjt,wdkxwodbo:

“Qgnnj!--eqb,wZ'uwdhw_qjug_!w Qje'owhqdh?w Eqgcg'owhqgwcdrh?”

“Zh'owdnnwczaqh,”wZwodbop

“Dkxw_.zu_?”

“Hqgwodug,”wZwodbo,w mhwsjmnxk'hwodbwzhwycghhbw cdoqpw  mhwqgwkgigc
kjhzsgx,w mhwodbo:

“Ajjx!w Oyngkxzx!w _Kje_weg'cgwdnnwczaqhwdkxwodrg!wXzxwbjmwhgnnwDmkhb?”

Zwedowajzkawhjwodbwbgo;w mhwoqgwsqzyygxwzkwdkxwodbo:ww“D jmhweqdh,wOzx?”

“Eqb,wd jmhwhqgwedbwhqgweqjngwhqzkawedowxjkgp”

“Eqdhweqjngwhqzka?”

“Eqb,w_hqg_weqjngwhqzkapw Hqgcgwdzk'hw mhwjkg;wqjewegwoghwhqgwcmkdedb
kzaagcwrcgg--ugwdkxwHjup”

“Ajjxwndkx!w Oghwhqgwcmk--Eqdhw_zo_whqgwsqznxwhdntzkawd jmh!w Xgdc,wxgdc,
jmhwjrwqzowqgdxwdadzk!”

“_Kj_,wZwdzk'hwjmhwjrwubw_qgdx_;wZwtkjewdnnweqdhwZ'uwhdntzkawd jmhpw Eg
_xzx_woghwqzuwrcgg--ugwdkxwHjupw Egwndzxwjmhwhjwxjwzh,wdkxwegw_xjkg_wzhp
 Dkxwegwxjkgwzhwgngadkh,whjjp”w Qg'xwajhwdwohdch,wdkxwoqgwkgigcwsqgstgx
qzuwmy,w.mohwoghwdkxwohdcgxwdkxwohdcgx,wdkxwnghwqzuwsnzywdnjka,wdkx
Zwoggwzhwedck'hwkjwmogwrjcw_ug_whjwymhwzkpww“Eqb,wDmkhb,wzhwsjohwmowd
yjegcwjrwejct--eggtowjrwzh--qjmcowdkxwqjmco,wgigcbwkzaqh,weqznohwbjmwedo
dnnwdonggypwDkxwegwqdxwhjwohgdnwsdkxngo,wdkxwhqgwoqggh,wdkxwhqgwoqzch,
dkxwbjmcwxcgoo,wdkxwoyjjko,wdkxwhzkwyndhgo,wdkxwsdog-tkzigo,wdkxwhqg
edcuzka-ydk,wdkxwhqgwaczkxohjkg,wdkxwrnjmc,wdkxw.mohwkjwgkxwjrwhqzkao,
dkxwbjmwsdk'hwhqzktweqdhwejctwzhwedowhjwudtgwhqgwodeo,wdkxwygko,wdkx
zkosczyhzjko,wdkxwjkgwhqzkawjcwdkjhqgc,wdkxwbjmwsdk'hwhqzktw_qdnr_whqg
rmkwzhwedopw Dkxwegwqdxwhjwudtgwmywhqgwyzshmcgowjrwsjrrzkowdkxwhqzkao,
dkxwkjkkdujmownghhgcowrcjuwhqgwcj  gco,wdkxwaghwmywdkxwxjekwhqg
nzaqhkzka-cjx,wdkxwxzawhqgwqjngwzkhjwhqgwsd zk,wdkxwudxgwhqgwcjygwndxxgc
dkxwogkxwzhwzkwsjjtgxwmywzkwdwyzg,wdkxwogkxwzkwoyjjkowdkxwhqzkaowhjwejct
ezhqwzkwbjmcwdycjkwyjstgh--”

“Ugcsbwodtgo!”

“--dkxwnjdxwmywhqgwsd zkwezhqwcdhowdkxwokdtgowdkxwojwjk,wrjcwsjuydkbwrjc
.zu;wdkxwhqgkwbjmwtgyhwHjuwqgcgwojwnjkawezhqwhqgw mhhgcwzkwqzowqdhwhqdh
bjmwsjugwkgdcwoyznzkawhqgweqjngw mozkgoo,w gsdmogwhqgwugkwsjugw grjcg
egwedowjmhwjrwhqgwsd zk,wdkxwegwqdxwhjwcmoq,wdkxwhqgbwqgdcxwmowdkxwngh
xczigwdhwmo,wdkxwZwajhwubwoqdcg,wdkxwegwxjxagxwjmhwjrwhqgwydhqwdkxwngh
hqguwajw b,wdkxweqgkwhqgwxjaowsjugwhqgbwedck'hwzkhgcgohgxwzkwmo,w mh
egkhwrjcwhqgwujohwkjzog,wdkxwegwajhwjmcwsdkjg,wdkxwudxgwrjcwhqg
cdrh,wdkxwedowdnnwodrg,wdkxw.zuwedowdwrcggwudk,wdkxwegwxjkgwzhwdnnw b
jmcognigo,wdkxw_edok'h_wzhw mnnb,wDmkhb!”

“Egnn,wZwkgigcwqgdcxwhqgwnztgowjrwzhwzkwdnnwubw jckwxdbo!w Ojwzhwedo
_bjm_,wbjmwnzhhngwcdyosdnnzjko,whqdh'ow ggkwudtzkawdnnwhqzowhcjm ng,
dkxwhmckgxwgigcb jxb'owezhowsngdkwzkozxgwjmhwdkxwosdcgxwmowdnnwujohwhj
xgdhqpw Z'igwdowajjxwdwkjhzjkwdowgigcwZwqdxwzkwubwnzrgwhjwhdtgwzhwjmh
j'wbjmwhqzowigcbwuzkmhgpw Hjwhqzkt,wqgcgwZ'igw ggk,wkzaqhwdrhgcwkzaqh,
d--_bjm_w.mohwaghwegnnwjksg,wbjmwbjmkawosduy,wdkxwZwndbwZ'nnwhdkwhqgwJnx
Qdccbwjmhwj'w jhqwj'wbg!”

 mhwHju,wqgw_edo_wojwycjmxwdkxw.jbrmn,wqgw.mohw_sjmnxk'h_wqjnxwzk,
dkxwqzowhjkamgw.mohw_egkh_wzh--oqgwd-sqzyyzkawzk,wdkxwoyzhhzkawrzcgwdnn
dnjka,wdkxw jhqwjrwhqguwajzkawzhwdhwjksg,wnztgwdwsdhwsjkigkhzjk;wdkxwoqg
odbo:

“_Egnn_,wbjmwaghwdnnwhqgwgk.jbugkhwbjmwsdkwjmhwjrwzhw_kje_,wrjcwuzkxwZ
hgnnwbjmwzrwZwsdhsqwbjmwugxxnzkawezhqwqzuwdadzk--”

“Ugxxnzkawezhqw_eqj_?”w Hjuwodbo,wxcjyyzkawqzowouzngwdkxwnjjtzka
omcyczogxp

“Ezhqw_eqj_?w Eqb,whqgwcmkdedbwkzaagc,wjrwsjmcogpw Eqj'xwbjmwcgstjk?”

Hjuwnjjtowdhwugwigcbwacdig,wdkxwodbo:

“Hju,wxzxk'hwbjmw.mohwhgnnwugwqgwedowdnnwczaqh?w Qdok'hwqgwajhwdedb?”

“_Qzu_?”wodbowDmkhwOdnnb;w“hqgwcmkdedbwkzaagc?ww'Xggxwqgwqdok'hp
 Hqgb'igwajhwqzuw dst,wodrgwdkxwojmkx,wdkxwqg'owzkwhqdhwsd zkwdadzk,
jkw cgdxwdkxwedhgc,wdkxwnjdxgxwxjekwezhqwsqdzko,whznnwqg'owsndzugxwjc
ojnx!”

Hjuwcjogwovmdcgwmywzkw gx,wezhqwqzowgbgwqjh,wdkxwqzowkjohcznowjygkzka
dkxwoqmhhzkawnztgwaznno,wdkxwozkaowjmhwhjwug:

“Hqgbwqdzk'hwkjw_czaqh_whjwoqmhwqzuwmy!w OQJIG!--dkxwxjk'hwbjmwnjogwd
uzkmhgpw Hmckwqzuwnjjog!wqgwdzk'hwkjwondig;wqg'owdowrcggwdowdkbwscghmc
hqdhwedntowhqzowgdchq!”

“Eqdhw_xjgo_whqgwsqznxwugdk?”

“ZwugdkwgigcbwejcxwZw_odb_,wDmkhwOdnnb,wdkxwzrwojug jxbwxjk'hwaj,w_Z'nn_
ajpwZ'igwtkjegxwqzuwdnnwqzownzrg,wdkxwojwqdowHju,whqgcgpw JnxwUzoo
Edhojkwxzgxwhejwujkhqowdaj,wdkxwoqgwedowdoqdugxwoqgwgigcwedowajzkawhj
ognnwqzuwxjekwhqgwczigc,wdkxw_odzx_woj;wdkxwoqgwoghwqzuwrcggwzkwqgc
eznnp”

“Hqgkweqdhwjkwgdchqwxzxw_bjm_wedkhwhjwoghwqzuwrcggwrjc,woggzkawqgwedo
dncgdxbwrcgg?”

“Egnn,whqdhw_zo_wdwvmgohzjk,wZwumohwodb;wdkxw.mohwnztgwejugk!w Eqb,
Zwedkhgxwhqgw_dxigkhmcg_wjrwzh;wdkxwZ'xwdwedxgxwkgst-xggywzkw njjx
hj--ajjxkgoowdnzig,w_DmkhwYjnnb!_”

Zrwoqgwedck'hwohdkxzkawczaqhwhqgcg,w.mohwzkozxgwhqgwxjjc,wnjjtzkawdo
oegghwdkxwsjkhgkhgxwdowdkwdkagnwqdnrwrmnnwjrwyzg,wZwezoqwZwudbwkgigc!

DmkhwOdnnbw.muygxwrjcwqgc,wdkxwujohwqmaagxwhqgwqgdxwjrrwjrwqgc,wdkx
sczgxwjigcwqgc,wdkxwZwrjmkxwdwajjxwgkjmaqwyndsgwrjcwugwmkxgcwhqgw gx,
rjcwzhwedowaghhzkawycghhbwomnhcbwrjcwmo,woggugxwhjwugpw DkxwZwyggygx
jmh,wdkxwzkwdwnzhhngweqzngwHju'owDmkhwYjnnbwoqjjtwqgcognrwnjjogwdkx
ohjjxwhqgcgwnjjtzkawdscjoowdhwHjuwjigcwqgcwoygshdsngo--tzkxwjrwaczkxzka
qzuwzkhjwhqgwgdchq,wbjmwtkjepw Dkxwhqgkwoqgwodbo:

“Bgo,wbjmw_ ghhgc_whmckwb'cwqgdxwdedb--ZwejmnxwzrwZwedowbjm,wHjup”

“Jq,wxgdcbwug!”wodbowDmkhwOdnnb;w“_Zo_wqgwsqdkagxwoj?w Eqb,whqdhwdzk'h
_Hju_,wzh'owOzx;wHju'o--Hju'o--eqb,weqgcgwzowHju?w Qgwedowqgcgwdwuzkmhg
dajp”

“Bjmwugdkweqgcg'owQmstw_Rzkk_--hqdh'oweqdhwbjmwugdk!w ZwcgstjkwZwqdzk'h
cdzogxwomsqwdwosduywdowubwHjuwdnnwhqgogwbgdcowkjhwhjwtkjewqzuweqgkwZ
_ogg_wqzupw Hqdhw_ejmnx_w gwdwycghhbwqjexb-xjpwSjugwjmhwrcjuwmkxgcwhqdh
 gx,wQmstwRzkkp”

OjwZwxjkgwzhpw  mhwkjhwrggnzkaw cdoqp

DmkhwOdnnbwoqgwedowjkgwjrwhqgwuzfgx-mygoh-njjtzkawygcojkowZwgigc
ogg--gfsgyhwjkg,wdkxwhqdhwedowMksngwOzndo,weqgkwqgwsjugwzkwdkxwhqgbwhjnx
zhwdnnwhjwqzupw Zhwtzkxwjrwudxgwqzuwxcmkt,wdowbjmwudbwodb,wdkxwqgwxzxk'h
tkjewkjhqzkawdhwdnnwhqgwcgohwjrwhqgwxdb,wdkxwycgdsqgxwdwycdbgc-ugghzka
ogcujkwhqdhwkzaqhwhqdhwadigwqzuwdwcdhhnzkawcmymhdhzjk,w gsdmogwhqg
jnxgohwudkwzkwhqgwejcnxwsjmnxk'hwdwmkxgcohjjxwzhpw OjwHju'owDmkhwYjnnb,
oqgwhjnxwdnnwd jmhweqjwZwedo,wdkxweqdh;wdkxwZwqdxwhjwmywdkxwhgnnwqje
ZwedowzkwomsqwdwhzaqhwyndsgwhqdhweqgkwUcopwYqgnyowhjjtwugwrjcwHju
Odebgc--oqgwsqzyygxwzkwdkxwodbo,w“Jq,wajwjkwdkxwsdnnwugwDmkhwOdnnb,wZ'u
mogxwhjwzhwkje,wdkxw'hdzk'hwkjwkggxwhjwsqdkag”--hqdhweqgkwDmkhwOdnnbwhjjt
ugwrjcwHjuwOdebgcwZwqdxwhjwohdkxwzh--hqgcgwedck'hwkjwjhqgcwedb,wdkx
Zwtkjegxwqgwejmnxk'hwuzkx,w gsdmogwzhwejmnxw gwkmhowrjcwqzu,w gzka
dwubohgcb,wdkxwqg'xwudtgwdkwdxigkhmcgwjmhwjrwzh,wdkxw gwygcrgshnb
odhzorzgxpw Dkxwojwzhwhmckgxwjmh,wdkxwqgwnghwjkwhjw gwOzx,wdkxwudxg
hqzkaowdowojrhwdowqgwsjmnxwrjcwugp

DkxwqzowDmkhwYjnnbwoqgwodzxwHjuwedowczaqhwd jmhwjnxwUzoowEdhojkwoghhzka
.zuwrcggwzkwqgcweznn;wdkxwoj,womcgwgkjmaq,wHjuwOdebgcwqdxwajkgwdkxwhjjt
dnnwhqdhwhcjm ngwdkxw jhqgcwhjwoghwdwrcggwkzaagcwrcgg!wdkxwZwsjmnxk'h
gigcwmkxgcohdkxw grjcg,wmkhznwhqdhwuzkmhgwdkxwhqdhwhdnt,wqjewqgw_sjmnx_
qgnywdw jxbwoghwdwkzaagcwrcggwezhqwqzow czkazka-myp

Egnn,wDmkhwYjnnbwoqgwodzxwhqdhweqgkwDmkhwOdnnbwecjhgwhjwqgcwhqdhwHjuwdkx
_Ozx_wqdxwsjugwdnnwczaqhwdkxwodrg,woqgwodbowhjwqgcognr:

“Njjtwdhwhqdh,wkje!w Zwuzaqhwqdigwgfygshgxwzh,wnghhzkawqzuwajwjrrwhqdh
edbwezhqjmhwdkb jxbwhjwedhsqwqzupw OjwkjewZwajhwhjwajwdkxwhcdyogwdnn
hqgwedbwxjekwhqgwczigc,wgngigkwqmkxcgxwuzng,wdkxwrzkxwjmhweqdhwhqdh
scgghmc'owmywhjw_hqzo_whzug,wdownjkawdowZwsjmnxk'hwogguwhjwaghwdkb
dkoegcwjmhwjrwbjmwd jmhwzhp”

“Eqb,wZwkgigcwqgdcxwkjhqzkawrcjuwbjm,”wodbowDmkhwOdnnbp

“Egnn,wZwejkxgc!w Eqb,wZwecjhgwbjmwhezsgwhjwdotwbjmweqdhwbjmwsjmnxwugdk
 bwOzxw gzkawqgcgp”

“Egnn,wZwkgigcwajhw'gu,wOzop”

DmkhwYjnnbwoqgwhmckowdcjmkxwonjewdkxwogigcg,wdkxwodbo:

“Bjm,wHju!”

“Egnn--_eqdh_?”wqgwodbo,wtzkxwjrwyghhzoqp

“Xjk'hwbjmweqdhw_ug_,wbjmwzuymxgkhwhqzka--qdkxwjmhwhqguwnghhgcop”

“Eqdhwnghhgco?”

“_Hqgu_wnghhgcopw Zw gw jmkx,wzrwZwqdigwhjwhdtgwd-qjnhwjrwbjmwZ'nn--”

“Hqgb'cgwzkwhqgwhcmktpw Hqgcg,wkjepw Dkxwhqgb'cgw.mohwhqgwodugwdowhqgb
edoweqgkwZwajhwhqguwjmhwjrwhqgwjrrzsgpw Zwqdzk'hwnjjtgxwzkhjwhqgu,wZ
qdzk'hwhjmsqgxwhqgupw  mhwZwtkjegxwhqgb'xwudtgwhcjm ng,wdkxwZwhqjmaqhwzr
bjmwedck'hwzkwkjwqmccb,wZ'x--”

“Egnn,wbjmw_xj_wkggxwotzkkzka,whqgcgwdzk'hwkjwuzohdtgwd jmhwzhpw DkxwZ
ecjhgwdkjhqgcwjkgwhjwhgnnwbjmwZwedowsjuzka;wdkxwZwo'yjogwqg--”

“Kj,wzhwsjugwbgohgcxdb;wZwqdzk'hwcgdxwzhwbgh,w mhw_zh'o_wdnnwczaqh,wZ'ig
ajhwhqdhwjkgp”

Zwedkhgxwhjwjrrgcwhjw ghwhejwxjnndcowoqgwqdxk'h,w mhwZwcgstjkgxwudb gwzh
edow.mohwdowodrgwhjwkjhwhjpw OjwZwkgigcwodzxwkjhqzkap




SQDYHGCwHQGwNDOH

HQGwrzcohwhzugwZwsdhsqgxwHjuwyczidhgwZwdotgxwqzuweqdhwedowqzowzxgd,whzug
jrwhqgwgidozjk?--eqdhwzhwedowqg'xwyndkkgxwhjwxjwzrwhqgwgidozjkwejctgxwdnn
czaqhwdkxwqgwudkdagxwhjwoghwdwkzaagcwrcggwhqdhwedowdncgdxbwrcggw grjcg?
Dkxwqgwodzx,weqdhwqgwqdxwyndkkgxwzkwqzowqgdxwrcjuwhqgwohdch,wzrwegwajh
.zuwjmhwdnnwodrg,wedowrjcwmowhjwcmkwqzuwxjekwhqgwczigcwjkwhqgwcdrh,wdkx
qdigwdxigkhmcgowynmu whjwhqgwujmhqwjrwhqgwczigc,wdkxwhqgkwhgnnwqzuwd jmh
qzow gzkawrcgg,wdkxwhdtgwqzuw dstwmywqjugwjkwdwohgdu jdh,wzkwohbng,
dkxwydbwqzuwrjcwqzownjohwhzug,wdkxweczhgwejcxwdqgdxwdkxwaghwjmhwdnn
hqgwkzaagcowdcjmkx,wdkxwqdigwhqguwednhlwqzuwzkhjwhjekwezhqwdwhjcsqnzaqh
ycjsgoozjkwdkxwdw cdoo- dkx,wdkxwhqgkwqgwejmnxw gwdwqgcj,wdkxwojwejmnx
egpw  mhwZwcgstjkgxwzhwedowd jmhwdowegnnwhqgwedbwzhwedop

Egwqdxw.zuwjmhwjrwhqgwsqdzkowzkwkjwhzug,wdkxweqgkwDmkhwYjnnbwdkxwMksng
OzndowdkxwDmkhwOdnnbwrjmkxwjmhwqjewajjxwqgwqgnygxwhqgwxjshjcwkmcogwHju,
hqgbwudxgwdwqgdywjrwrmoowjigcwqzu,wdkxwrzfgxwqzuwmywyczug,wdkxwazigwqzu
dnnwqgwedkhgxwhjwgdh,wdkxwdwajjxwhzug,wdkxwkjhqzkawhjwxjpw Dkxwegwqdx
qzuwmywhjwhqgwozst-cjju,wdkxwqdxwdwqzaqwhdnt;wdkxwHjuwazigw.zuwrjchb
xjnndcowrjcw gzkawyczojkgcwrjcwmowojwydhzgkh,wdkxwxjzkawzhwmywojwajjx,
dkxw.zuwedowyngdogxwujohwhjwxgdhq,wdkxw mohgxwjmh,wdkxwodbo:

“Xdq,wkje,wQmst,weqdhwZwhgnnwbjm?--eqdhwZwhgnnwbjmwmywxdqwjkw.dstojk
zondk'?w Zw_hjng_wbjmwZwajhwdwqdzcbw cgdo',wgkweqdh'owxgwozakwmkwzh;wgk
Zw_hjng_wbjmwZw gkwczsqwemkoh,wgkwaezkghgcwhjw gwczsqw_dazk_;wgkwzh'o
sjugwhcmg;wgkwqgdqwoqgwzo!w _xdq_,wkje!wxjdk'whdntwhjw_ug_--ozakowzo
_ozako_,wuzkgwZwhgnnwbjm;wgkwZwtkjegxw.zo'w'owegnnw'dhwZw'mlwaezkghgcw g
czsqwdazkwdowZ'owd-ohdkkzk'wqgdqwxzowuzkmhg!”

DkxwhqgkwHjuwqgwhdntgxwdnjkawdkxwhdntgxwdnjka,wdkxwodbo,wng'owdnnwhqcgg
onzxgwjmhwjrwqgcgwjkgwjrwhqgogwkzaqhowdkxwaghwdkwjmhrzh,wdkxwajwrjc
qjenzkawdxigkhmcgowdujkaohwhqgwZk.mko,wjigcwzkwhqgwHgcczhjcb,wrjcwd
sjmyngwjrweggtowjcwhej;wdkxwZwodbo,wdnnwczaqh,whqdhwomzhowug,w mhwZ
dzk'hwajhwkjwujkgbwrjcwhjw mbwhqgwjmhrzh,wdkxwZwcgstjkwZwsjmnxk'hwagh
kjkgwrcjuwqjug,w gsdmogwzh'ownztgnbwydy'ow ggkw dstw grjcgwkje,wdkxwajh
zhwdnnwdedbwrcjuw.mxagwHqdhsqgcwdkxwxcmktwzhwmyp

“Kj,wqgwqdzk'h,”wHjuwodbo;w“zh'owdnnwhqgcgwbgh--ozfwhqjmodkxwxjnndco
dkxwujcg;wdkxwbjmcwydywqdzk'hwgigcw ggkw dstwozksgpw Qdxk'hweqgkwZwsjug
dedb,wdkbqjep”

.zuwodbo,wtzkxwjrwojnguk:

“Qgwdzk'hwd-sjuzk'w dstwkjwuj',wQmstp”

Zwodbo:

“Eqb,w.zu?”

“Kguuzkgweqb,wQmst-- mhwqgwdzk'hwsjuzk'w dstwkjwujp”

 mhwZwtgyhwdhwqzu;wojwdhwndohwqgwodbo:

“Xjdk'wbjmw'ugu gcwxgwqjmogwxdhwedowrnjdh'kwxjekwxgwczigc,wgkwxgbwemlwd
udkwzkwxdq,wtzigcgxwmy,wgkwZwegkhwzkwgkwmktzigcgxwqzuwdkxwxzxk'wnghwbjm
sjugwzk?w Egnn,wxgk,wbjmwtzkwazhwbj'wujkgbweqgkwbjmwedkhowzh,wtdogwxdh
emlwqzup”

Hju'owujohwegnnwkje,wdkxwajhwqzow mnnghwdcjmkxwqzowkgstwjkwdwedhsq-amdcx
rjcwdwedhsq,wdkxwzowdnedbowoggzkaweqdhwhzugwzhwzo,wdkxwojwhqgcgwdzk'h
kjhqzkawujcgwhjweczhgwd jmh,wdkxwZwduwcjhhgkwandxwjrwzh,w gsdmogwzrwZ'x
dwtkjegxweqdhwdwhcjm ngwzhwedowhjwudtgwdw jjtwZwejmnxk'hwdwhdstngxwzh,
dkxwdzk'hwd-ajzkawhjwkjwujcgpw  mhwZwcgstjkwZwajhwhjwnzaqhwjmhwrjcwhqg
Hgcczhjcbwdqgdxwjrwhqgwcgoh,w gsdmogwDmkhwOdnnbwoqg'owajzkawhjwdxjyhwug
dkxwoziznzlgwug,wdkxwZwsdk'hwohdkxwzhpw Zw ggkwhqgcgw grjcgp

HQGwGKXpwBJMCOwHCMNB,w_QMSTwRZKK_p





GkxwjrwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawG jjtwjrwDxigkhmcgowjrwQmstng gccbwRzkk,
Sjuynghg,w bwUdctwHedzkw(OdumgnwSngugko)

***wGKXwJRwHQZOwYCJ.GSHwAMHGK GCAwG JJTwQMSTNG GCCBwRZKKw***

*****wHqzowrzngwoqjmnxw gwkdugxw76-0pqhuwjcw76-0plzyw*****wHqzowdkx
dnnwdoojszdhgxwrzngowjrwidczjmowrjcudhoweznnw gwrjmkxwzk:
qhhy://eeepamhgk gcapkgh/7/76/

Ycjxmsgxw bwXdizxwEzxagcpwYcgizjmowgxzhzjkowycjxmsgxw bwCjkw mctgbwdkx
ZkhgckghwEzcghdy

Myxdhgxwgxzhzjkoweznnwcgyndsgwhqgwycgizjmowjkg--hqgwjnxwgxzhzjkoweznnw g
cgkdugxp

Scgdhzkawhqgwejctowrcjuwym nzswxjudzkwyczkhwgxzhzjkowugdkowhqdhwkjwjkg
jekowdwMkzhgxwOhdhgowsjybczaqhwzkwhqgogwejcto,wojwhqgwRjmkxdhzjkw(dkx
bjm!)wsdkwsjybwdkxwxzohcz mhgwzhwzkwhqgwMkzhgxwOhdhgowezhqjmhwygcuzoozjk
dkxwezhqjmhwydbzkawsjybczaqhwcjbdnhzgopwOygszdnwcmngo,woghwrjchqwzk
hqgwAgkgcdnwHgcuowjrwMogwydchwjrwhqzownzsgkog,wdyynbwhjwsjybzkawdkx
xzohcz mhzkawYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzswejctowhjwycjhgshwhqg
YCJ.GSHwAMHGK GCA-huwsjksgyhwdkxwhcdxgudctpwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawzowd
cgazohgcgxwhcdxgudct,wdkxwudbwkjhw gwmogxwzrwbjmwsqdcagwrjcwhqgwg jjto,
mkngoowbjmwcgsgzigwoygszrzswygcuzoozjkpwZrwbjmwxjwkjhwsqdcagwdkbhqzka
rjcwsjyzgowjrwhqzowg jjt,wsjuynbzkawezhqwhqgwcmngowzowigcbwgdobpwBjm
udbwmogwhqzowg jjtwrjcwkgdcnbwdkbwymcyjogwomsqwdowscgdhzjkwjrwxgczidhzig
ejcto,wcgyjcho,wygcrjcudksgowdkxwcgogdcsqpwHqgbwudbw gwujxzrzgxwdkx
yczkhgxwdkxwazigkwdedb--bjmwudbwxjwycdshzsdnnbwDKBHQZKAwezhqwym nzs
xjudzkwg jjtopwCgxzohcz mhzjkwzowom .gshwhjwhqgwhcdxgudctwnzsgkog,
goygszdnnbwsjuugcszdnwcgxzohcz mhzjkp

***wOHDCH:wRMNNwNZSGKOGw***

HQGwRMNNwYCJ.GSHwAMHGK GCAwNZSGKOGwYNGDOGwCGDXwHQZOw GRJCGwBJM
XZOHCZ MHGwJCwMOGwHQZOwEJCT

HjwycjhgshwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwuzoozjkwjrwycjujhzkawhqgwrcgg
xzohcz mhzjkwjrwgngshcjkzswejcto,w bwmozkawjcwxzohcz mhzkawhqzowejct
(jcwdkbwjhqgcwejctwdoojszdhgxwzkwdkbwedbwezhqwhqgwyqcdogw“Ycj.gsh
Amhgk gca”),wbjmwdacggwhjwsjuynbwezhqwdnnwhqgwhgcuowjrwhqgwRmnn
Ycj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwNzsgkogw(didznd ngwezhqwhqzowrzngwjcwjknzkgwdh
qhhy://amhgk gcapkgh/nzsgkog)p

Ogshzjkw1pwAgkgcdnwHgcuowjrwMogwdkxwCgxzohcz mhzkawYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-hu
gngshcjkzswejcto

1pDpw bwcgdxzkawjcwmozkawdkbwydchwjrwhqzowYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-hu
gngshcjkzswejct,wbjmwzkxzsdhgwhqdhwbjmwqdigwcgdx,wmkxgcohdkx,wdacgg
hjwdkxwdssgyhwdnnwhqgwhgcuowjrwhqzownzsgkogwdkxwzkhgnngshmdnwycjygchb
(hcdxgudct/sjybczaqh)wdacggugkhpwZrwbjmwxjwkjhwdacggwhjwd zxgw bwdnnwhqg
hgcuowjrwhqzowdacggugkh,wbjmwumohwsgdogwmozkawdkxwcghmckwjcwxgohcjbwdnn
sjyzgowjrwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzswejctowzkwbjmcwyjoogoozjkp
Zrwbjmwydzxwdwrggwrjcwj hdzkzkawdwsjybwjrwjcwdssgoowhjwdwYcj.gsh
Amhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzswejctwdkxwbjmwxjwkjhwdacggwhjw gw jmkxw bwhqg
hgcuowjrwhqzowdacggugkh,wbjmwudbwj hdzkwdwcgrmkxwrcjuwhqgwygcojkwjc
gkhzhbwhjweqjuwbjmwydzxwhqgwrggwdowoghwrjchqwzkwydcdacdyqw1pGp8p

1p pw“Ycj.gshwAmhgk gca”wzowdwcgazohgcgxwhcdxgudctpwZhwudbwjknbw gwmogx
jkwjcwdoojszdhgxwzkwdkbwedbwezhqwdkwgngshcjkzswejctw bwygjyngweqjwdacgg
hjw gw jmkxw bwhqgwhgcuowjrwhqzowdacggugkhpwHqgcgwdcgwdwrgewhqzkaowhqdh
bjmwsdkwxjwezhqwujohwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzswejctowgigkwezhqjmh
sjuynbzkawezhqwhqgwrmnnwhgcuowjrwhqzowdacggugkhpwOggwydcdacdyqw1pS
 gnjepwHqgcgwdcgwdwnjhwjrwhqzkaowbjmwsdkwxjwezhqwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-hu
gngshcjkzswejctowzrwbjmwrjnnjewhqgwhgcuowjrwhqzowdacggugkhwdkxwqgny
ycgogcigwrcggwrmhmcgwdssgoowhjwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzswejctop
Oggwydcdacdyqw1pGw gnjep

1pSpwHqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawNzhgcdcbwDcsqzigwRjmkxdhzjkw(“hqgwRjmkxdhzjk”
wjcwYANDR),wjekowdwsjuyzndhzjkwsjybczaqhwzkwhqgwsjnngshzjkwjrwYcj.gsh
Amhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzswejctopwKgdcnbwdnnwhqgwzkxzizxmdnwejctowzk
hqgwsjnngshzjkwdcgwzkwhqgwym nzswxjudzkwzkwhqgwMkzhgxwOhdhgopwZrwdk
zkxzizxmdnwejctwzowzkwhqgwym nzswxjudzkwzkwhqgwMkzhgxwOhdhgowdkxwbjm
dcgwnjsdhgxwzkwhqgwMkzhgxwOhdhgo,wegwxjwkjhwsndzuwdwczaqhwhjwycgigkh
bjmwrcjuwsjybzka,wxzohcz mhzka,wygcrjcuzka,wxzoyndbzkawjcwscgdhzka
xgczidhzigwejctow dogxwjkwhqgwejctwdownjkawdowdnnwcgrgcgksgowhjwYcj.gsh
Amhgk gcawdcgwcgujigxpwJrwsjmcog,wegwqjygwhqdhwbjmweznnwomyyjchwhqg
Ycj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwuzoozjkwjrwycjujhzkawrcggwdssgoowhjwgngshcjkzs
ejctow bwrcggnbwoqdczkawYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwejctowzkwsjuynzdksgwezhq
hqgwhgcuowjrwhqzowdacggugkhwrjcwtggyzkawhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwkdug
doojszdhgxwezhqwhqgwejctpwBjmwsdkwgdoznbwsjuynbwezhqwhqgwhgcuowjrwhqzo
dacggugkhw bwtggyzkawhqzowejctwzkwhqgwodugwrjcudhwezhqwzhowdhhdsqgx
rmnnwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwNzsgkogweqgkwbjmwoqdcgwzhwezhqjmhwsqdcagwezhq
jhqgcop

1pXpwHqgwsjybczaqhwndeowjrwhqgwyndsgweqgcgwbjmwdcgwnjsdhgxwdnojwajigck
eqdhwbjmwsdkwxjwezhqwhqzowejctpwSjybczaqhwndeowzkwujohwsjmkhczgowdcgwzk
dwsjkohdkhwohdhgwjrwsqdkagpwZrwbjmwdcgwjmhozxgwhqgwMkzhgxwOhdhgo,wsqgst
hqgwndeowjrwbjmcwsjmkhcbwzkwdxxzhzjkwhjwhqgwhgcuowjrwhqzowdacggugkh
 grjcgwxjeknjdxzka,wsjybzka,wxzoyndbzka,wygcrjcuzka,wxzohcz mhzka
jcwscgdhzkawxgczidhzigwejctow dogxwjkwhqzowejctwjcwdkbwjhqgcwYcj.gsh
Amhgk gca-huwejctpwHqgwRjmkxdhzjkwudtgowkjwcgycgogkhdhzjkowsjksgckzka
hqgwsjybczaqhwohdhmowjrwdkbwejctwzkwdkbwsjmkhcbwjmhozxgwhqgwMkzhgx
Ohdhgop

1pGpwMkngoowbjmwqdigwcgujigxwdnnwcgrgcgksgowhjwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca:

1pGp1pwHqgwrjnnjezkawogkhgksg,wezhqwdshzigwnzktowhj,wjcwjhqgcwzuugxzdhg
dssgoowhj,whqgwrmnnwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwNzsgkogwumohwdyygdcwycjuzkgkhnb
eqgkgigcwdkbwsjybwjrwdwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwejctw(dkbwejctwjkweqzsqwhqg
yqcdogw“Ycj.gshwAmhgk gca”wdyygdco,wjcwezhqweqzsqwhqgwyqcdogw“Ycj.gsh
Amhgk gca”wzowdoojszdhgx)wzowdssgoogx,wxzoyndbgx,wygcrjcugx,wizgegx,
sjyzgxwjcwxzohcz mhgx:

Hqzowg jjtwzowrjcwhqgwmogwjrwdkbjkgwdkbeqgcgwdhwkjwsjohwdkxwezhqwdnujoh
kjwcgohczshzjkoweqdhojgigcpwBjmwudbwsjybwzh,wazigwzhwdedbwjcwcg-mog
zhwmkxgcwhqgwhgcuowjrwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawNzsgkogwzksnmxgxwezhqwhqzo
g jjtwjcwjknzkgwdhweeepamhgk gcapkgh

1pGp2pwZrwdkwzkxzizxmdnwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzswejctwzowxgczigx
rcjuwhqgwym nzswxjudzkw(xjgowkjhwsjkhdzkwdwkjhzsgwzkxzsdhzkawhqdhwzhwzo
yjohgxwezhqwygcuzoozjkwjrwhqgwsjybczaqhwqjnxgc),whqgwejctwsdkw gwsjyzgx
dkxwxzohcz mhgxwhjwdkbjkgwzkwhqgwMkzhgxwOhdhgowezhqjmhwydbzkawdkbwrggo
jcwsqdcagopwZrwbjmwdcgwcgxzohcz mhzkawjcwycjizxzkawdssgoowhjwdwejctwezhq
hqgwyqcdogw“Ycj.gshwAmhgk gca”wdoojszdhgxwezhqwjcwdyygdczkawjkwhqgwejct,
bjmwumohwsjuynbwgzhqgcwezhqwhqgwcgvmzcgugkhowjrwydcdacdyqow1pGp1whqcjmaq
1pGp7wjcwj hdzkwygcuzoozjkwrjcwhqgwmogwjrwhqgwejctwdkxwhqgwYcj.gsh
Amhgk gca-huwhcdxgudctwdowoghwrjchqwzkwydcdacdyqow1pGp8wjcw1pGp9p

1pGp3pwZrwdkwzkxzizxmdnwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzswejctwzowyjohgx
ezhqwhqgwygcuzoozjkwjrwhqgwsjybczaqhwqjnxgc,wbjmcwmogwdkxwxzohcz mhzjk
umohwsjuynbwezhqw jhqwydcdacdyqow1pGp1whqcjmaqw1pGp7wdkxwdkbwdxxzhzjkdn
hgcuowzuyjogxw bwhqgwsjybczaqhwqjnxgcpwDxxzhzjkdnwhgcuoweznnw gwnzktgx
hjwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwNzsgkogwrjcwdnnwejctowyjohgxwezhqwhqg
ygcuzoozjkwjrwhqgwsjybczaqhwqjnxgcwrjmkxwdhwhqgw gazkkzkawjrwhqzowejctp

1pGp4pwXjwkjhwmknzktwjcwxghdsqwjcwcgujigwhqgwrmnnwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-hu
Nzsgkogwhgcuowrcjuwhqzowejct,wjcwdkbwrzngowsjkhdzkzkawdwydchwjrwhqzo
ejctwjcwdkbwjhqgcwejctwdoojszdhgxwezhqwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-hup

1pGp5pwXjwkjhwsjyb,wxzoyndb,wygcrjcu,wxzohcz mhgwjcwcgxzohcz mhg
hqzowgngshcjkzswejct,wjcwdkbwydchwjrwhqzowgngshcjkzswejct,wezhqjmh
ycjuzkgkhnbwxzoyndbzkawhqgwogkhgksgwoghwrjchqwzkwydcdacdyqw1pGp1wezhq
dshzigwnzktowjcwzuugxzdhgwdssgoowhjwhqgwrmnnwhgcuowjrwhqgwYcj.gsh
Amhgk gca-huwNzsgkogp

1pGp6pwBjmwudbwsjkigchwhjwdkxwxzohcz mhgwhqzowejctwzkwdkbw zkdcb,
sjuycgoogx,wudctgxwmy,wkjkycjyczghdcbwjcwycjyczghdcbwrjcu,wzksnmxzkawdkb
ejcxwycjsgoozkawjcwqbygchgfhwrjcupwQjegigc,wzrwbjmwycjizxgwdssgoowhjwjc
xzohcz mhgwsjyzgowjrwdwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwejctwzkwdwrjcudhwjhqgc
hqdkw“YndzkwIdkznndwDOSZZ”wjcwjhqgcwrjcudhwmogxwzkwhqgwjrrzszdn
igcozjkwyjohgxwjkwhqgwjrrzszdnwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huweg wozhg
(eeepamhgk gcapkgh),wbjmwumoh,wdhwkjwdxxzhzjkdnwsjoh,wrggwjcwgfygkog
hjwhqgwmogc,wycjizxgwdwsjyb,wdwugdkowjrwgfyjchzkawdwsjyb,wjcwdwugdko
jrwj hdzkzkawdwsjybwmyjkwcgvmgoh,wjrwhqgwejctwzkwzhowjczazkdnw“Yndzk
IdkznndwDOSZZ”wjcwjhqgcwrjcupwDkbwdnhgckdhgwrjcudhwumohwzksnmxgwhqgwrmnn
Ycj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwNzsgkogwdowoygszrzgxwzkwydcdacdyqw1pGp1p

1pGp7pwXjwkjhwsqdcagwdwrggwrjcwdssgoowhj,wizgezka,wxzoyndbzka,
ygcrjcuzka,wsjybzkawjcwxzohcz mhzkawdkbwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwejcto
mkngoowbjmwsjuynbwezhqwydcdacdyqw1pGp8wjcw1pGp9p

1pGp8pwBjmwudbwsqdcagwdwcgdojkd ngwrggwrjcwsjyzgowjrwjcwycjizxzkawdssgoo
hjwjcwxzohcz mhzkawYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzswejctowycjizxgxwhqdh

-wBjmwydbwdwcjbdnhbwrggwjrw20%wjrwhqgwacjoowycjrzhowbjmwxgczigwrcju
hqgwmogwjrwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwejctowsdnsmndhgxwmozkawhqgwughqjxwbjm
dncgdxbwmogwhjwsdnsmndhgwbjmcwdyynzsd ngwhdfgopwHqgwrggwzowjegxwhjwhqg
jekgcwjrwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwhcdxgudct,w mhwqgwqdowdacggxwhjwxjkdhg
cjbdnhzgowmkxgcwhqzowydcdacdyqwhjwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawNzhgcdcbwDcsqzig
RjmkxdhzjkpwCjbdnhbwydbugkhowumohw gwydzxwezhqzkw60wxdbowrjnnjezkawgdsq
xdhgwjkweqzsqwbjmwycgydcgw(jcwdcgwngadnnbwcgvmzcgxwhjwycgydcg)wbjmc
ygczjxzswhdfwcghmckopwCjbdnhbwydbugkhowoqjmnxw gwsngdcnbwudctgxwdowomsq
dkxwogkhwhjwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawNzhgcdcbwDcsqzigwRjmkxdhzjkwdhwhqg
dxxcgoowoygszrzgxwzkwOgshzjkw4,w“Zkrjcudhzjkwd jmhwxjkdhzjkowhjwhqg
Ycj.gshwAmhgk gcawNzhgcdcbwDcsqzigwRjmkxdhzjkp”

-wBjmwycjizxgwdwrmnnwcgrmkxwjrwdkbwujkgbwydzxw bwdwmogcweqjwkjhzrzgowbjm
zkweczhzkaw(jcw bwg-udzn)wezhqzkw30wxdbowjrwcgsgzyhwhqdhwo/qgwxjgowkjh
dacggwhjwhqgwhgcuowjrwhqgwrmnnwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwNzsgkogpwBjm
umohwcgvmzcgwomsqwdwmogcwhjwcghmckwjcwxgohcjbwdnnwsjyzgowjrwhqgwejcto
yjoogoogxwzkwdwyqbozsdnwugxzmuwdkxwxzosjkhzkmgwdnnwmogwjrwdkxwdnnwdssgoo
hjwjhqgcwsjyzgowjrwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwejctop

-wBjmwycjizxg,wzkwdssjcxdksgwezhqwydcdacdyqw1pRp3,wdwrmnnwcgrmkxwjr
dkbwujkgbwydzxwrjcwdwejctwjcwdwcgyndsgugkhwsjyb,wzrwdwxgrgshwzkwhqg
gngshcjkzswejctwzowxzosjigcgxwdkxwcgyjchgxwhjwbjmwezhqzkw90wxdbowjr
cgsgzyhwjrwhqgwejctp

-wBjmwsjuynbwezhqwdnnwjhqgcwhgcuowjrwhqzowdacggugkhwrjcwrcgg
xzohcz mhzjkwjrwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwejctop

1pGp9pwZrwbjmwezoqwhjwsqdcagwdwrggwjcwxzohcz mhgwdwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-hu
gngshcjkzswejctwjcwacjmywjrwejctowjkwxzrrgcgkhwhgcuowhqdkwdcgwoghwrjchq
zkwhqzowdacggugkh,wbjmwumohwj hdzkwygcuzoozjkwzkweczhzkawrcjuw jhqwhqg
Ycj.gshwAmhgk gcawNzhgcdcbwDcsqzigwRjmkxdhzjkwdkxwUzsqdgnwQdch,whqg
jekgcwjrwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwhcdxgudctpwSjkhdshwhqgwRjmkxdhzjkwdo
oghwrjchqwzkwOgshzjkw3w gnjep

1pRp

1pRp1pwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawijnmkhggcowdkxwguynjbggowgfygkxwsjkozxgcd ng
grrjchwhjwzxgkhzrb,wxjwsjybczaqhwcgogdcsqwjk,whcdkoscz gwdkxwycjjrcgdx
ym nzswxjudzkwejctowzkwscgdhzkawhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwsjnngshzjkp
Xgoyzhgwhqgogwgrrjcho,wYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzswejcto,wdkxwhqg
ugxzmuwjkweqzsqwhqgbwudbw gwohjcgx,wudbwsjkhdzkw“Xgrgsho,”womsqwdo,w mh
kjhwnzuzhgxwhj,wzksjuynghg,wzkdssmcdhgwjcwsjccmyhwxdhd,whcdkosczyhzjk
gccjco,wdwsjybczaqhwjcwjhqgcwzkhgnngshmdnwycjygchbwzkrczkagugkh,wd
xgrgshzigwjcwxdudagxwxzotwjcwjhqgcwugxzmu,wdwsjuymhgcwizcmo,wjcwsjuymhgc
sjxgowhqdhwxdudagwjcwsdkkjhw gwcgdxw bwbjmcwgvmzyugkhp

1pRp2pwNZUZHGXwEDCCDKHB,wXZOSNDZUGCwJRwXDUDAGOw-wGfsgyhwrjcwhqgw“Czaqh
jrwCgyndsgugkhwjcwCgrmkx”wxgoscz gxwzkwydcdacdyqw1pRp3,whqgwYcj.gsh
Amhgk gcawNzhgcdcbwDcsqzigwRjmkxdhzjk,whqgwjekgcwjrwhqgwYcj.gsh
Amhgk gca-huwhcdxgudct,wdkxwdkbwjhqgcwydchbwxzohcz mhzkawdwYcj.gsh
Amhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzswejctwmkxgcwhqzowdacggugkh,wxzosndzuwdnn
nzd znzhbwhjwbjmwrjcwxdudago,wsjohowdkxwgfygkogo,wzksnmxzkawngadnwrggop
BJMwDACGGwHQDHwBJMwQDIGwKJwCGUGXZGOwRJCwKGANZAGKSG,wOHCZSHwNZD ZNZHB,
 CGDSQwJRwEDCCDKHBwJCw CGDSQwJRwSJKHCDSHwGFSGYHwHQJOGwYCJIZXGXwZK
YDCDACDYQwR3pwBJMwDACGGwHQDHwHQGwRJMKXDHZJK,wHQGwHCDXGUDCTwJEKGC,wDKX
DKBwXZOHCZ MHJCwMKXGCwHQZOwDACGGUGKHwEZNNwKJHw GwNZD NGwHJwBJMwRJC
DSHMDN,wXZCGSH,wZKXZCGSH,wSJKOGVMGKHZDN,wYMKZHZIGwJCwZKSZXGKHDNwXDUDAGO
GIGKwZRwBJMwAZIGwKJHZSGwJRwHQGwYJOOZ ZNZHBwJRwOMSQwXDUDAGp

1pRp3pwNZUZHGXwCZAQHwJRwCGYNDSGUGKHwJCwCGRMKXw-wZrwbjmwxzosjigcwdwxgrgsh
zkwhqzowgngshcjkzswejctwezhqzkw90wxdbowjrwcgsgzizkawzh,wbjmwsdkwcgsgzig
dwcgrmkxwjrwhqgwujkgbw(zrwdkb)wbjmwydzxwrjcwzhw bwogkxzkawdweczhhgk
gfyndkdhzjkwhjwhqgwygcojkwbjmwcgsgzigxwhqgwejctwrcjupwZrwbjmwcgsgzigx
hqgwejctwjkwdwyqbozsdnwugxzmu,wbjmwumohwcghmckwhqgwugxzmuwezhqwbjmc
eczhhgkwgfyndkdhzjkpwHqgwygcojkwjcwgkhzhbwhqdhwycjizxgxwbjmwezhqwhqg
xgrgshzigwejctwudbwgngshwhjwycjizxgwdwcgyndsgugkhwsjybwzkwnzgmwjrwd
cgrmkxpwZrwbjmwcgsgzigxwhqgwejctwgngshcjkzsdnnb,whqgwygcojkwjcwgkhzhb
ycjizxzkawzhwhjwbjmwudbwsqjjogwhjwazigwbjmwdwogsjkxwjyyjchmkzhbwhj
cgsgzigwhqgwejctwgngshcjkzsdnnbwzkwnzgmwjrwdwcgrmkxpwZrwhqgwogsjkxwsjyb
zowdnojwxgrgshzig,wbjmwudbwxgudkxwdwcgrmkxwzkweczhzkawezhqjmhwrmchqgc
jyyjchmkzhzgowhjwrzfwhqgwycj ngup

1pRp4pwGfsgyhwrjcwhqgwnzuzhgxwczaqhwjrwcgyndsgugkhwjcwcgrmkxwoghwrjchq
zkwydcdacdyqw1pRp3,whqzowejctwzowycjizxgxwhjwbjmw'DO-ZO'wEZHQwKJwJHQGC
EDCCDKHZGOwJRwDKBwTZKX,wGFYCGOOwJCwZUYNZGX,wZKSNMXZKAw MHwKJHwNZUZHGXwHJ
EDCCDKHZGOwJRwUGCSQDKHZ ZNZHBwJCwRZHKGOOwRJCwDKBwYMCYJOGp

1pRp5pwOjugwohdhgowxjwkjhwdnnjewxzosndzugcowjrwsgchdzkwzuynzgx
edccdkhzgowjcwhqgwgfsnmozjkwjcwnzuzhdhzjkwjrwsgchdzkwhbygowjrwxdudagop
Zrwdkbwxzosndzugcwjcwnzuzhdhzjkwoghwrjchqwzkwhqzowdacggugkhwizjndhgowhqg
ndewjrwhqgwohdhgwdyynzsd ngwhjwhqzowdacggugkh,whqgwdacggugkhwoqdnnw g
zkhgcycghgxwhjwudtgwhqgwudfzumuwxzosndzugcwjcwnzuzhdhzjkwygcuzhhgxw b
hqgwdyynzsd ngwohdhgwndepwHqgwzkidnzxzhbwjcwmkgkrjcsgd znzhbwjrwdkb
ycjizozjkwjrwhqzowdacggugkhwoqdnnwkjhwijzxwhqgwcgudzkzkawycjizozjkop

1pRp6pwZKXGUKZHBw-wBjmwdacggwhjwzkxgukzrbwdkxwqjnxwhqgwRjmkxdhzjk,
hqgwhcdxgudctwjekgc,wdkbwdagkhwjcwguynjbggwjrwhqgwRjmkxdhzjk,wdkbjkg
ycjizxzkawsjyzgowjrwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzswejctowzkwdssjcxdksg
ezhqwhqzowdacggugkh,wdkxwdkbwijnmkhggcowdoojszdhgxwezhqwhqgwycjxmshzjk,
ycjujhzjkwdkxwxzohcz mhzjkwjrwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzswejcto,
qdcungoowrcjuwdnnwnzd znzhb,wsjohowdkxwgfygkogo,wzksnmxzkawngadnwrggo,
hqdhwdczogwxzcgshnbwjcwzkxzcgshnbwrcjuwdkbwjrwhqgwrjnnjezkaweqzsqwbjmwxj
jcwsdmogwhjwjssmc:w(d)wxzohcz mhzjkwjrwhqzowjcwdkbwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-hu
ejct,w( )wdnhgcdhzjk,wujxzrzsdhzjk,wjcwdxxzhzjkowjcwxgnghzjkowhjwdkb
Ycj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwejct,wdkxw(s)wdkbwXgrgshwbjmwsdmogp

Ogshzjkw2pwZkrjcudhzjkwd jmhwhqgwUzoozjkwjrwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-hu

Ycj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwzowobkjkbujmowezhqwhqgwrcggwxzohcz mhzjkwjr
gngshcjkzswejctowzkwrjcudhowcgdxd ngw bwhqgwezxgohwidczghbwjrwsjuymhgco
zksnmxzkawj ojnghg,wjnx,wuzxxng-dagxwdkxwkgewsjuymhgcopwZhwgfzoho
 gsdmogwjrwhqgwgrrjchowjrwqmkxcgxowjrwijnmkhggcowdkxwxjkdhzjkowrcju
ygjyngwzkwdnnwedntowjrwnzrgp

Ijnmkhggcowdkxwrzkdkszdnwomyyjchwhjwycjizxgwijnmkhggcowezhqwhqg
doozohdksgwhqgbwkggx,wzowsczhzsdnwhjwcgdsqzkawYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-hu'o
ajdnowdkxwgkomczkawhqdhwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwsjnngshzjkweznnwcgudzk
rcggnbwdidznd ngwrjcwagkgcdhzjkowhjwsjugpwZkw2001,whqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca
NzhgcdcbwDcsqzigwRjmkxdhzjkwedowscgdhgxwhjwycjizxgwdwogsmcgwdkx
ygcudkgkhwrmhmcgwrjcwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwdkxwrmhmcgwagkgcdhzjkopwHj
ngdckwujcgwd jmhwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawNzhgcdcbwDcsqzigwRjmkxdhzjkwdkx
qjewbjmcwgrrjchowdkxwxjkdhzjkowsdkwqgny,woggwOgshzjkow3wdkxw4wdkxwhqg
Rjmkxdhzjkweg wydagwdhwqhhy://eeepyandrpjcap

Ogshzjkw3pwZkrjcudhzjkwd jmhwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawNzhgcdcbwDcsqzig
Rjmkxdhzjk

HqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawNzhgcdcbwDcsqzigwRjmkxdhzjkwzowdwkjkwycjrzh
501(s)(3)wgxmsdhzjkdnwsjcyjcdhzjkwjcadkzlgxwmkxgcwhqgwndeowjrwhqgwohdhg
jrwUzoozoozyyzwdkxwacdkhgxwhdfwgfguyhwohdhmow bwhqgwZkhgckdnwCgigkmg
OgcizsgpwHqgwRjmkxdhzjk'owGZKwjcwrgxgcdnwhdfwzxgkhzrzsdhzjkwkmu gc
zow64-6221541pwZhow501(s)(3)wnghhgcwzowyjohgxwdh
qhhy://yandrpjca/rmkxcdzozkapwSjkhcz mhzjkowhjwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca
NzhgcdcbwDcsqzigwRjmkxdhzjkwdcgwhdfwxgxmshz ngwhjwhqgwrmnnwgfhgkh
ygcuzhhgxw bwMpOpwrgxgcdnwndeowdkxwbjmcwohdhg'owndeop

HqgwRjmkxdhzjk'owyczkszydnwjrrzsgwzownjsdhgxwdhw4557wUgndkwXcpwOp
Rdzc dkto,wDT,w99712p,w mhwzhowijnmkhggcowdkxwguynjbggowdcgwosdhhgcgx
hqcjmaqjmhwkmugcjmownjsdhzjkopwZhow mozkgoowjrrzsgwzownjsdhgxwdh
809wKjchqw1500wEgoh,wOdnhwNdtgwSzhb,wMHw84116,w(801)w596-1887,
gudznw mozkgoo@yandrpjcapwGudznwsjkhdshwnzktowdkxwmywhjwxdhgwsjkhdsh
zkrjcudhzjkwsdkw gwrjmkxwdhwhqgwRjmkxdhzjk'oweg wozhgwdkxwjrrzszdnwydag
dhwqhhy://yandrpjca

Rjcwdxxzhzjkdnwsjkhdshwzkrjcudhzjk:wXcpwAcgajcbw pwKge bwSqzgrwGfgsmhzig
dkxwXzcgshjcwa kge b@yandrpjca

Ogshzjkw4pwZkrjcudhzjkwd jmhwXjkdhzjkowhjwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawNzhgcdcb
DcsqzigwRjmkxdhzjk

Ycj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwxgygkxowmyjkwdkxwsdkkjhwomcizigwezhqjmhwezxgwoycgdx
ym nzswomyyjchwdkxwxjkdhzjkowhjwsdccbwjmhwzhowuzoozjkwjrwzkscgdozka
hqgwkmu gcwjrwym nzswxjudzkwdkxwnzsgkogxwejctowhqdhwsdkw gwrcggnb
xzohcz mhgxwzkwudsqzkgwcgdxd ngwrjcuwdssgooz ngw bwhqgwezxgohwdccdb
jrwgvmzyugkhwzksnmxzkawjmhxdhgxwgvmzyugkhpwUdkbwoudnnwxjkdhzjkow($1whj
$5,000)wdcgwydchzsmndcnbwzuyjchdkhwhjwudzkhdzkzkawhdfwgfguyhwohdhmowezhq
hqgwZCOp

HqgwRjmkxdhzjkwzowsjuuzhhgxwhjwsjuynbzkawezhqwhqgwndeowcgamndhzka
sqdczhzgowdkxwsqdczhd ngwxjkdhzjkowzkwdnnw50wohdhgowjrwhqgwMkzhgx
OhdhgopwSjuynzdksgwcgvmzcgugkhowdcgwkjhwmkzrjcuwdkxwzhwhdtgowd
sjkozxgcd ngwgrrjch,wumsqwydygcejctwdkxwudkbwrggowhjwugghwdkxwtggywmy
ezhqwhqgogwcgvmzcgugkhopwEgwxjwkjhwojnzszhwxjkdhzjkowzkwnjsdhzjko
eqgcgwegwqdigwkjhwcgsgzigxweczhhgkwsjkrzcudhzjkwjrwsjuynzdksgpwHjwOGKX
XJKDHZJKOwjcwxghgcuzkgwhqgwohdhmowjrwsjuynzdksgwrjcwdkbwydchzsmndcwohdhg
izozhwqhhy://yandrpjca

Eqzngwegwsdkkjhwdkxwxjwkjhwojnzszhwsjkhcz mhzjkowrcjuwohdhgoweqgcgweg
qdigwkjhwughwhqgwojnzszhdhzjkwcgvmzcgugkho,wegwtkjewjrwkjwycjqz zhzjk
dadzkohwdssgyhzkawmkojnzszhgxwxjkdhzjkowrcjuwxjkjcowzkwomsqwohdhgoweqj
dyycjdsqwmowezhqwjrrgcowhjwxjkdhgp

Zkhgckdhzjkdnwxjkdhzjkowdcgwacdhgrmnnbwdssgyhgx,w mhwegwsdkkjhwudtgwdkb
ohdhgugkhowsjksgckzkawhdfwhcgdhugkhwjrwxjkdhzjkowcgsgzigxwrcjuwjmhozxg
hqgwMkzhgxwOhdhgopwMpOpwndeowdnjkgwoeduywjmcwoudnnwohdrrp

YngdogwsqgstwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawEg wydagowrjcwsmccgkhwxjkdhzjk
ughqjxowdkxwdxxcgoogopwXjkdhzjkowdcgwdssgyhgxwzkwdwkmu gcwjrwjhqgcwedbo
zksnmxzkawzksnmxzkawsqgsto,wjknzkgwydbugkhowdkxwscgxzhwsdcxwxjkdhzjkop
Hjwxjkdhg,wyngdogwizozh:wqhhy://yandrpjca/xjkdhg

Ogshzjkw5pwAgkgcdnwZkrjcudhzjkwD jmhwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwgngshcjkzs
ejctop

YcjrgoojcwUzsqdgnwOpwQdchwzowhqgwjczazkdhjcwjrwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-hu
sjksgyhwjrwdwnz cdcbwjrwgngshcjkzswejctowhqdhwsjmnxw gwrcggnbwoqdcgx
ezhqwdkbjkgpwRjcwhqzchbwbgdco,wqgwycjxmsgxwdkxwxzohcz mhgxwYcj.gsh
Amhgk gca-huwg jjtowezhqwjknbwdwnjjogwkghejctwjrwijnmkhggcwomyyjchp

Ycj.gshwAmhgk gca-huwg jjtowdcgwjrhgkwscgdhgxwrcjuwogigcdnwyczkhgx
gxzhzjko,wdnnwjrweqzsqwdcgwsjkrzcugxwdowYm nzswXjudzkwzkwhqgwMpOpwmkngoo
dwsjybczaqhwkjhzsgwzowzksnmxgxpwHqmo,wegwxjwkjhwkgsgoodcznbwtggywg jjto
zkwsjuynzdksgwezhqwdkbwydchzsmndcwydygcwgxzhzjkp

UjohwygjyngwohdchwdhwjmcwEg wozhgweqzsqwqdowhqgwudzkwYAwogdcsqwrdsznzhb:

qhhy://eeepamhgk gcapkgh

HqzowEg wozhgwzksnmxgowzkrjcudhzjkwd jmhwYcj.gshwAmhgk gca-hu,wzksnmxzka
qjewhjwudtgwxjkdhzjkowhjwhqgwYcj.gshwAmhgk gcawNzhgcdcbwDcsqzig
Rjmkxdhzjk,wqjewhjwqgnywycjxmsgwjmcwkgewg jjto,wdkxwqjewhjwom oscz gwhj
jmcwgudznwkgeonghhgcwhjwqgdcwd jmhwkgewg jjtop


