KEY: 24 ﻿iebuvco mnovdjvem’f rlscv’f r.kvdonevf sd wbd.velrd., jp lvwsf creebll

ozsf vjbbh sf qbe ozv nfv bq rdpbdv rdpwzvev ro db cbfo rd. wsoz
rlybfo db evfoescosbdf wzrofbvkvex  pbn yrp cbip so, mskv so rwrp be
ev-nfv so nd.ve ozv oveyf bq ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem lscvdfv sdcln.v.
wsoz ozsf vjbbh be bdlsdv ro wwwxmnovdjvemxbem


osolv: rlscv’f r.kvdonevf sd wbd.velrd.

rnozbe: lvwsf creebll

ibfosdm .rov: undv 25, 2008 [vjbbh #11]
evlvrfv .rov: yrecz, 1994
lrfo ni.rov.: bcobjve 6, 2016

lrdmnrmv: vdmlsfz

czrercove fvo vdcb.sdm: noq-8

*** foreo bq ozsf iebuvco mnovdjvem vjbbh rlscv’f r.kvdonevf sd wbd.velrd. ***










rlscv’f r.kvdonevf sd wbd.velrd.

lvwsf creebll

ozv ysllvddsny qnlceny v.sosbd 3x0




czriove sx .bwd ozv erjjso-zblv

rlscv wrf jvmsddsdm ob mvo kvep osev. bq fsoosdm jp zve fsfove bd ozv
jrdh, rd. bq zrksdm dbozsdm ob .b: bdcv be owscv fzv zr. ivviv. sdob ozv
jbbh zve fsfove wrf evr.sdm, jno so zr. db isconevf be cbdkvefrosbdf sd
so, ‘rd. wzro sf ozv nfv bq r jbbh,’ ozbnmzo rlscv ‘wsozbno isconevf be
cbdkvefrosbdf?’

fb fzv wrf cbdfs.vesdm sd zve bwd ysd. (rf wvll rf fzv cbnl., qbe ozv
zbo .rp yr.v zve qvvl kvep flvvip rd. fonis.), wzvozve ozv ilvrfnev
bq yrhsdm r .rsfp-czrsd wbnl. jv wbeoz ozv oebnjlv bq mvoosdm ni rd.
ischsdm ozv .rsfsvf, wzvd fn..vdlp r wzsov erjjso wsoz isdh vpvf erd
clbfv jp zvex

ozvev wrf dbozsdm fb kvep evyrehrjlv sd ozro; dbe .s. rlscv ozsdh so fb
kvep yncz bno bq ozv wrp ob zvre ozv erjjso frp ob sofvlq, ‘bz .vre!
bz .vre! s fzrll jv lrov!’ (wzvd fzv ozbnmzo so bkve rqovewre.f, so
bccneev. ob zve ozro fzv bnmzo ob zrkv wbd.vev. ro ozsf, jno ro ozv osyv
so rll fvvyv. tnsov dronerl); jno wzvd ozv erjjso rconrllp obbh r wrocz
bno bq sof wrsfocbro-ibchvo, rd. lbbhv. ro so, rd. ozvd zneesv. bd,
rlscv foreov. ob zve qvvo, qbe so qlrfzv. rcebff zve ysd. ozro fzv zr.
dvkve jvqbev fvvd r erjjso wsoz vsozve r wrsfocbro-ibchvo, be r wrocz
ob orhv bno bq so, rd. jnedsdm wsoz cnesbfsop, fzv erd rcebff ozv qsvl.
rqove so, rd. qbeondrovlp wrf unfo sd osyv ob fvv so ibi .bwd r lremv
erjjso-zblv nd.ve ozv zv.mvx

sd rdbozve ybyvdo .bwd wvdo rlscv rqove so, dvkve bdcv cbdfs.vesdm zbw
sd ozv wbel. fzv wrf ob mvo bno rmrsdx

ozv erjjso-zblv wvdo foersmzo bd lshv r onddvl qbe fbyv wrp, rd. ozvd
.siiv. fn..vdlp .bwd, fb fn..vdlp ozro rlscv zr. dbo r ybyvdo ob ozsdh
rjbno fobiisdm zvefvlq jvqbev fzv qbnd. zvefvlq qrllsdm .bwd r kvep .vvi
wvllx

vsozve ozv wvll wrf kvep .vvi, be fzv qvll kvep flbwlp, qbe fzv zr.
ilvdop bq osyv rf fzv wvdo .bwd ob lbbh rjbno zve rd. ob wbd.ve wzro wrf
mbsdm ob zriivd dvgox qsefo, fzv oesv. ob lbbh .bwd rd. yrhv bno wzro
fzv wrf cbysdm ob, jno so wrf obb .reh ob fvv rdpozsdm; ozvd fzv
lbbhv. ro ozv fs.vf bq ozv wvll, rd. dboscv. ozro ozvp wvev qsllv. wsoz
cnijbre.f rd. jbbh-fzvlkvf; zvev rd. ozvev fzv frw yrif rd. isconevf
zndm nibd ivmfx fzv obbh .bwd r ure qeby bdv bq ozv fzvlkvf rf
fzv irffv.; so wrf lrjvllv. ‘berdmv yreyrlr.v’, jno ob zve mevro
.sfriibsdoyvdo so wrf vyiop: fzv .s. dbo lshv ob .ebi ozv ure qbe qvre
bq hsllsdm fbyvjb.p, fb yrdrmv. ob ino so sdob bdv bq ozv cnijbre.f rf
fzv qvll irfo sox

‘wvll!’ ozbnmzo rlscv ob zvefvlq, ‘rqove fncz r qrll rf ozsf, s fzrll
ozsdh dbozsdm bq onyjlsdm .bwd forsef! zbw jerkv ozvp’ll rll ozsdh yv ro
zbyv! wzp, s wbnl.d’o frp rdpozsdm rjbno so, vkvd sq s qvll bqq ozv obi
bq ozv zbnfv!’ (wzscz wrf kvep lshvlp oenvx)

.bwd, .bwd, .bwdx wbnl. ozv qrll dvkve cbyv ob rd vd.! ‘s wbd.ve zbw
yrdp yslvf s’kv qrllvd jp ozsf osyv?’ fzv frs. rlbn.x ‘s ynfo jv mvoosdm
fbyvwzvev dvre ozv cvdoev bq ozv vreozx lvo yv fvv: ozro wbnl. jv qbne
ozbnfrd. yslvf .bwd, s ozsdh--’ (qbe, pbn fvv, rlscv zr. lvredo fvkverl
ozsdmf bq ozsf fbeo sd zve lvffbdf sd ozv fczbblebby, rd. ozbnmz ozsf
wrf dbo r kvep mbb. biibeondsop qbe fzbwsdm bqq zve hdbwlv.mv, rf ozvev
wrf db bdv ob lsfovd ob zve, fosll so wrf mbb. iercoscv ob frp so bkve)
‘--pvf, ozro’f rjbno ozv esmzo .sfordcv--jno ozvd s wbd.ve wzro lroson.v
be lbdmson.v s’kv mbo ob?’ (rlscv zr. db s.vr wzro lroson.v wrf, be
lbdmson.v vsozve, jno ozbnmzo ozvp wvev dscv merd. wbe.f ob frpx)

ievfvdolp fzv jvmrd rmrsdx ‘s wbd.ve sq s fzrll qrll esmzo ozebnmz ozv
vreoz! zbw qnddp so’ll fvvy ob cbyv bno rybdm ozv ivbilv ozro wrlh wsoz
ozvse zvr.f .bwdwre.! ozv rdosirozsvf, s ozsdh--’ (fzv wrf erozve mlr.
ozvev wrf db bdv lsfovdsdm, ozsf osyv, rf so .s.d’o fbnd. ro rll ozv
esmzo wbe.) ‘--jno s fzrll zrkv ob rfh ozvy wzro ozv dryv bq ozv cbndoep
sf, pbn hdbwx ilvrfv, yr’ry, sf ozsf dvw avrlrd. be rnfoerlsr?’ (rd.
fzv oesv. ob cneofvp rf fzv fibhv--qrdcp cneofvpsdm rf pbn’ev qrllsdm
ozebnmz ozv rse! .b pbn ozsdh pbn cbnl. yrdrmv so?) ‘rd. wzro rd
smdberdo lsoolv msel fzv’ll ozsdh yv qbe rfhsdm! db, so’ll dvkve .b ob
rfh: ivezrif s fzrll fvv so wesoovd ni fbyvwzvevx’

.bwd, .bwd, .bwdx ozvev wrf dbozsdm vlfv ob .b, fb rlscv fbbd jvmrd
orlhsdm rmrsdx ‘.sdrz’ll ysff yv kvep yncz ob-dsmzo, s fzbnl. ozsdh!’
(.sdrz wrf ozv crox) ‘s zbiv ozvp’ll evyvyjve zve frncve bq yslh ro
ovr-osyvx .sdrz yp .vre! s wsfz pbn wvev .bwd zvev wsoz yv! ozvev rev db
yscv sd ozv rse, s’y rqers., jno pbn ysmzo crocz r jro, rd. ozro’f kvep
lshv r ybnfv, pbn hdbwx jno .b crof vro jrof, s wbd.ve?’ rd. zvev rlscv
jvmrd ob mvo erozve flvvip, rd. wvdo bd frpsdm ob zvefvlq, sd r .evryp
fbeo bq wrp, ‘.b crof vro jrof? .b crof vro jrof?’ rd. fbyvosyvf, ‘.b
jrof vro crof?’ qbe, pbn fvv, rf fzv cbnl.d’o rdfwve vsozve tnvfosbd,
so .s.d’o yncz yroove wzscz wrp fzv ino sox fzv qvlo ozro fzv wrf .basdm
bqq, rd. zr. unfo jvmnd ob .evry ozro fzv wrf wrlhsdm zrd. sd zrd. wsoz
.sdrz, rd. frpsdm ob zve kvep vredvfolp, ‘dbw, .sdrz, ovll yv ozv oenoz:
.s. pbn vkve vro r jro?’ wzvd fn..vdlp, oznyi! oznyi! .bwd fzv cryv nibd
r zvri bq foschf rd. .ep lvrkvf, rd. ozv qrll wrf bkvex

rlscv wrf dbo r jso zneo, rd. fzv unyiv. ni bd ob zve qvvo sd r ybyvdo:
fzv lbbhv. ni, jno so wrf rll .reh bkvezvr.; jvqbev zve wrf rdbozve
lbdm irffrmv, rd. ozv wzsov erjjso wrf fosll sd fsmzo, zneepsdm .bwd sox
ozvev wrf dbo r ybyvdo ob jv lbfo: rwrp wvdo rlscv lshv ozv wsd., rd.
wrf unfo sd osyv ob zvre so frp, rf so onedv. r cbedve, ‘bz yp vref
rd. wzsfhvef, zbw lrov so’f mvoosdm!’ fzv wrf clbfv jvzsd. so wzvd fzv
onedv. ozv cbedve, jno ozv erjjso wrf db lbdmve ob jv fvvd: fzv qbnd.
zvefvlq sd r lbdm, lbw zrll, wzscz wrf lso ni jp r ebw bq lryif zrdmsdm
qeby ozv ebbqx

ozvev wvev .bbef rll ebnd. ozv zrll, jno ozvp wvev rll lbchv.; rd. wzvd
rlscv zr. jvvd rll ozv wrp .bwd bdv fs.v rd. ni ozv bozve, oepsdm vkvep
.bbe, fzv wrlhv. fr.lp .bwd ozv ys..lv, wbd.vesdm zbw fzv wrf vkve ob
mvo bno rmrsdx

fn..vdlp fzv cryv nibd r lsoolv ozevv-lvmmv. orjlv, rll yr.v bq fbls.
mlrff; ozvev wrf dbozsdm bd so vgcvio r osdp mbl.vd hvp, rd. rlscv’f
qsefo ozbnmzo wrf ozro so ysmzo jvlbdm ob bdv bq ozv .bbef bq ozv zrll;
jno, rlrf! vsozve ozv lbchf wvev obb lremv, be ozv hvp wrf obb fyrll,
jno ro rdp erov so wbnl. dbo bivd rdp bq ozvyx zbwvkve, bd ozv fvcbd.
osyv ebnd., fzv cryv nibd r lbw cneorsd fzv zr. dbo dboscv. jvqbev, rd.
jvzsd. so wrf r lsoolv .bbe rjbno qsqovvd sdczvf zsmz: fzv oesv. ozv
lsoolv mbl.vd hvp sd ozv lbch, rd. ob zve mevro .vlsmzo so qsoov.!

rlscv bivdv. ozv .bbe rd. qbnd. ozro so lv. sdob r fyrll irffrmv, dbo
yncz lremve ozrd r ero-zblv: fzv hdvlo .bwd rd. lbbhv. rlbdm ozv irffrmv
sdob ozv lbkvlsvfo mre.vd pbn vkve frwx zbw fzv lbdmv. ob mvo bno bq
ozro .reh zrll, rd. wrd.ve rjbno rybdm ozbfv jv.f bq jesmzo qlbwvef rd.
ozbfv cbbl qbndorsdf, jno fzv cbnl. dbo vkvd mvo zve zvr. ozebnmz ozv
.bbewrp; ‘rd. vkvd sq yp zvr. wbnl. mb ozebnmz,’ ozbnmzo ibbe rlscv, ‘so
wbnl. jv bq kvep lsoolv nfv wsozbno yp fzbnl.vefx bz, zbw s wsfz s cbnl.
fzno ni lshv r ovlvfcbiv! s ozsdh s cbnl., sq s bdlp hdvw zbw ob jvmsdx’
qbe, pbn fvv, fb yrdp bno-bq-ozv-wrp ozsdmf zr. zriivdv. lrovlp,
ozro rlscv zr. jvmnd ob ozsdh ozro kvep qvw ozsdmf sd.vv. wvev evrllp
syibffsjlvx

ozvev fvvyv. ob jv db nfv sd wrsosdm jp ozv lsoolv .bbe, fb fzv wvdo
jrch ob ozv orjlv, zrlq zbisdm fzv ysmzo qsd. rdbozve hvp bd so, be ro
rdp erov r jbbh bq enlvf qbe fznoosdm ivbilv ni lshv ovlvfcbivf: ozsf
osyv fzv qbnd. r lsoolv jboolv bd so, [‘wzscz cveorsdlp wrf dbo zvev
jvqbev,’ frs. rlscv,) rd. ebnd. ozv dvch bq ozv jboolv wrf r irive
lrjvl, wsoz ozv wbe.f ‘.esdh yv’ jvrnosqnllp iesdov. bd so sd lremv
lvoovefx

so wrf rll kvep wvll ob frp ‘.esdh yv,’ jno ozv wsfv lsoolv rlscv wrf
dbo mbsdm ob .b ozro sd r zneepx ‘db, s’ll lbbh qsefo,’ fzv frs., ‘rd.
fvv wzvozve so’f yrehv. “ibsfbd” be dbo’; qbe fzv zr. evr. fvkverl dscv
lsoolv zsfobesvf rjbno czsl.evd wzb zr. mbo jnedo, rd. vrovd ni jp wsl.
jvrfof rd. bozve ndilvrfrdo ozsdmf, rll jvcrnfv ozvp wbnl. dbo evyvyjve
ozv fsyilv enlvf ozvse qesvd.f zr. ornmzo ozvy: fncz rf, ozro r ev.-zbo
ibhve wsll jned pbn sq pbn zbl. so obb lbdm; rd. ozro sq pbn cno pbne
qsdmve kvep .vvilp wsoz r hdsqv, so nfnrllp jlvv.f; rd. fzv zr. dvkve
qbemboovd ozro, sq pbn .esdh yncz qeby r jboolv yrehv. ‘ibsfbd,’ so sf
rlybfo cveorsd ob .sfrmevv wsoz pbn, fbbdve be lrovex

zbwvkve, ozsf jboolv wrf dbo yrehv. ‘ibsfbd,’ fb rlscv kvdonev. ob orfov
so, rd. qsd.sdm so kvep dscv, (so zr., sd qrco, r fbeo bq ysgv. qlrkbne
bq czveep-oreo, cnfore., isdv-riilv, ebrfo onehvp, obqqvv, rd. zbo
jnoovev. obrfo,) fzv kvep fbbd qsdsfzv. so bqqx

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

‘wzro r cnesbnf qvvlsdm!’ frs. rlscv; ‘s ynfo jv fznoosdm ni lshv r
ovlvfcbivx’

rd. fb so wrf sd.vv.: fzv wrf dbw bdlp ovd sdczvf zsmz, rd. zve qrcv
jesmzovdv. ni ro ozv ozbnmzo ozro fzv wrf dbw ozv esmzo fsav qbe mbsdm
ozebnmz ozv lsoolv .bbe sdob ozro lbkvlp mre.vdx qsefo, zbwvkve, fzv
wrsov. qbe r qvw ysdnovf ob fvv sq fzv wrf mbsdm ob fzesdh rdp qneozve:
fzv qvlo r lsoolv dvekbnf rjbno ozsf; ‘qbe so ysmzo vd., pbn hdbw,’ frs.
rlscv ob zvefvlq, ‘sd yp mbsdm bno rlobmvozve, lshv r crd.lvx s wbd.ve
wzro s fzbnl. jv lshv ozvd?’ rd. fzv oesv. ob qrdcp wzro ozv qlryv bq r
crd.lv sf lshv rqove ozv crd.lv sf jlbwd bno, qbe fzv cbnl. dbo evyvyjve
vkve zrksdm fvvd fncz r ozsdmx

rqove r wzslv, qsd.sdm ozro dbozsdm ybev zriivdv., fzv .vcs.v. bd mbsdm
sdob ozv mre.vd ro bdcv; jno, rlrf qbe ibbe rlscv! wzvd fzv mbo ob ozv
.bbe, fzv qbnd. fzv zr. qbemboovd ozv lsoolv mbl.vd hvp, rd. wzvd fzv
wvdo jrch ob ozv orjlv qbe so, fzv qbnd. fzv cbnl. dbo ibffsjlp evrcz
so: fzv cbnl. fvv so tnsov ilrsdlp ozebnmz ozv mlrff, rd. fzv oesv. zve
jvfo ob clsyj ni bdv bq ozv lvmf bq ozv orjlv, jno so wrf obb flsiivep;
rd. wzvd fzv zr. osev. zvefvlq bno wsoz oepsdm, ozv ibbe lsoolv ozsdm
fro .bwd rd. cesv.x

‘cbyv, ozvev’f db nfv sd cepsdm lshv ozro!’ frs. rlscv ob zvefvlq,
erozve fzreilp; ‘s r.ksfv pbn ob lvrkv bqq ozsf ysdnov!’ fzv mvdverllp
mrkv zvefvlq kvep mbb. r.kscv, (ozbnmz fzv kvep fvl.by qbllbwv. so),
rd. fbyvosyvf fzv fcbl.v. zvefvlq fb fvkvevlp rf ob jesdm ovref sdob
zve vpvf; rd. bdcv fzv evyvyjvev. oepsdm ob jbg zve bwd vref qbe zrksdm
czvrov. zvefvlq sd r mryv bq cebtnvo fzv wrf ilrpsdm rmrsdfo zvefvlq,
qbe ozsf cnesbnf czsl. wrf kvep qbd. bq ievovd.sdm ob jv owb ivbilvx
‘jno so’f db nfv dbw,’ ozbnmzo ibbe rlscv, ‘ob ievovd. ob jv owb ivbilv!
wzp, ozvev’f zre.lp vdbnmz bq yv lvqo ob yrhv bdv evfivcorjlv ivefbd!’

fbbd zve vpv qvll bd r lsoolv mlrff jbg ozro wrf lpsdm nd.ve ozv orjlv:
fzv bivdv. so, rd. qbnd. sd so r kvep fyrll crhv, bd wzscz ozv wbe.f
‘vro yv’ wvev jvrnosqnllp yrehv. sd cneerdofx ‘wvll, s’ll vro so,’ frs.
rlscv, ‘rd. sq so yrhvf yv mebw lremve, s crd evrcz ozv hvp; rd. sq so
yrhvf yv mebw fyrllve, s crd cevvi nd.ve ozv .bbe; fb vsozve wrp s’ll
mvo sdob ozv mre.vd, rd. s .bd’o crev wzscz zriivdf!’

fzv rov r lsoolv jso, rd. frs. rdgsbnflp ob zvefvlq, ‘wzscz wrp? wzscz
wrp?’, zbl.sdm zve zrd. bd ozv obi bq zve zvr. ob qvvl wzscz wrp so wrf
mebwsdm, rd. fzv wrf tnsov fneiesfv. ob qsd. ozro fzv evyrsdv. ozv fryv
fsav: ob jv fnev, ozsf mvdverllp zriivdf wzvd bdv vrof crhv, jno rlscv
zr. mbo fb yncz sdob ozv wrp bq vgivcosdm dbozsdm jno bno-bq-ozv-wrp
ozsdmf ob zriivd, ozro so fvvyv. tnsov .nll rd. fonis. qbe lsqv ob mb bd
sd ozv cbyybd wrpx

fb fzv fvo ob wbeh, rd. kvep fbbd qsdsfzv. bqq ozv crhvx

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *




czriove ssx ozv ibbl bq ovref

‘cnesbnfve rd. cnesbnfve!’ cesv. rlscv (fzv wrf fb yncz fneiesfv., ozro
qbe ozv ybyvdo fzv tnsov qbembo zbw ob fivrh mbb. vdmlsfz); ‘dbw s’y
bivdsdm bno lshv ozv lremvfo ovlvfcbiv ozro vkve wrf! mbb.-jpv, qvvo!’
(qbe wzvd fzv lbbhv. .bwd ro zve qvvo, ozvp fvvyv. ob jv rlybfo bno bq
fsmzo, ozvp wvev mvoosdm fb qre bqq)x ‘bz, yp ibbe lsoolv qvvo, s wbd.ve
wzb wsll ino bd pbne fzbvf rd. fobchsdmf qbe pbn dbw, .vref? s’y fnev
_s_ fzrd’o jv rjlv! s fzrll jv r mevro .vrl obb qre bqq ob oebnjlv
ypfvlq rjbno pbn: pbn ynfo yrdrmv ozv jvfo wrp pbn crd;--jno s ynfo jv
hsd. ob ozvy,’ ozbnmzo rlscv, ‘be ivezrif ozvp wbd’o wrlh ozv wrp s wrdo
ob mb! lvo yv fvv: s’ll mskv ozvy r dvw irse bq jbbof vkvep czesfoyrfx’

rd. fzv wvdo bd ilrddsdm ob zvefvlq zbw fzv wbnl. yrdrmv sox ‘ozvp ynfo
mb jp ozv creesve,’ fzv ozbnmzo; ‘rd. zbw qnddp so’ll fvvy, fvd.sdm
ievfvdof ob bdv’f bwd qvvo! rd. zbw b.. ozv .sevcosbdf wsll lbbh!

     rlscv’f esmzo qbbo, vftx
       zvreozenm,
         dvre ozv qvd.ve,
           (wsoz rlscv’f lbkv)x

bz .vre, wzro dbdfvdfv s’y orlhsdm!’

unfo ozvd zve zvr. foench rmrsdfo ozv ebbq bq ozv zrll: sd qrco fzv wrf
dbw ybev ozrd dsdv qvvo zsmz, rd. fzv ro bdcv obbh ni ozv lsoolv mbl.vd
hvp rd. zneesv. bqq ob ozv mre.vd .bbex

ibbe rlscv! so wrf rf yncz rf fzv cbnl. .b, lpsdm .bwd bd bdv fs.v, ob
lbbh ozebnmz sdob ozv mre.vd wsoz bdv vpv; jno ob mvo ozebnmz wrf ybev
zbivlvff ozrd vkve: fzv fro .bwd rd. jvmrd ob cep rmrsdx

‘pbn bnmzo ob jv rfzryv. bq pbnefvlq,’ frs. rlscv, ‘r mevro msel lshv
pbn,’ (fzv ysmzo wvll frp ozsf), ‘ob mb bd cepsdm sd ozsf wrp! fobi ozsf
ybyvdo, s ovll pbn!’ jno fzv wvdo bd rll ozv fryv, fzv..sdm mrllbdf bq
ovref, ndosl ozvev wrf r lremv ibbl rll ebnd. zve, rjbno qbne sdczvf
.vvi rd. evrczsdm zrlq .bwd ozv zrllx

rqove r osyv fzv zvre. r lsoolv iroovesdm bq qvvo sd ozv .sfordcv, rd.
fzv zrfoslp .esv. zve vpvf ob fvv wzro wrf cbysdmx so wrf ozv wzsov
erjjso evonedsdm, filvd.s.lp .evffv., wsoz r irse bq wzsov hs. mlbkvf sd
bdv zrd. rd. r lremv qrd sd ozv bozve: zv cryv oeboosdm rlbdm sd r mevro
zneep, ynoovesdm ob zsyfvlq rf zv cryv, ‘bz! ozv .nczvff, ozv .nczvff!
bz! wbd’o fzv jv frkrmv sq s’kv hvio zve wrsosdm!’ rlscv qvlo fb
.vfiverov ozro fzv wrf evr.p ob rfh zvli bq rdp bdv; fb, wzvd ozv erjjso
cryv dvre zve, fzv jvmrd, sd r lbw, osys. kbscv, ‘sq pbn ilvrfv, fse--’
ozv erjjso foreov. ksblvdolp, .ebiiv. ozv wzsov hs. mlbkvf rd. ozv qrd,
rd. fhneesv. rwrp sdob ozv .rehdvff rf zre. rf zv cbnl. mbx

rlscv obbh ni ozv qrd rd. mlbkvf, rd., rf ozv zrll wrf kvep zbo, fzv
hvio qrddsdm zvefvlq rll ozv osyv fzv wvdo bd orlhsdm: ‘.vre, .vre! zbw
tnvve vkvepozsdm sf ob-.rp! rd. pvfove.rp ozsdmf wvdo bd unfo rf nfnrlx
s wbd.ve sq s’kv jvvd czrdmv. sd ozv dsmzo? lvo yv ozsdh: wrf s ozv
fryv wzvd s mbo ni ozsf ybedsdm? s rlybfo ozsdh s crd evyvyjve qvvlsdm r
lsoolv .sqqvevdox jno sq s’y dbo ozv fryv, ozv dvgo tnvfosbd sf, wzb
sd ozv wbel. ry s? rz, ozro’f ozv mevro inaalv!’ rd. fzv jvmrd ozsdhsdm
bkve rll ozv czsl.evd fzv hdvw ozro wvev bq ozv fryv rmv rf zvefvlq, ob
fvv sq fzv cbnl. zrkv jvvd czrdmv. qbe rdp bq ozvyx

‘s’y fnev s’y dbo r.r,’ fzv frs., ‘qbe zve zrse mbvf sd fncz lbdm
esdmlvof, rd. ysdv .bvfd’o mb sd esdmlvof ro rll; rd. s’y fnev s crd’o
jv yrjvl, qbe s hdbw rll fbeof bq ozsdmf, rd. fzv, bz! fzv hdbwf fncz r
kvep lsoolv! jvfs.vf, fzv’f fzv, rd. s’y s, rd.--bz .vre, zbw inaalsdm
so rll sf! s’ll oep sq s hdbw rll ozv ozsdmf s nfv. ob hdbwx lvo yv
fvv: qbne osyvf qskv sf owvlkv, rd. qbne osyvf fsg sf ozseovvd, rd.
qbne osyvf fvkvd sf--bz .vre! s fzrll dvkve mvo ob owvdop ro ozro erov!
zbwvkve, ozv ynlosilscrosbd orjlv .bvfd’o fsmdsqp: lvo’f oep mvbmerizpx
lbd.bd sf ozv crisorl bq iresf, rd. iresf sf ozv crisorl bq ebyv, rd.
ebyv--db, ozro’f rll webdm, s’y cveorsd! s ynfo zrkv jvvd czrdmv. qbe
yrjvl! s’ll oep rd. frp “zbw .boz ozv lsoolv--“’ rd. fzv cebffv. zve
zrd.f bd zve lri rf sq fzv wvev frpsdm lvffbdf, rd. jvmrd ob evivro so,
jno zve kbscv fbnd.v. zbrefv rd. foerdmv, rd. ozv wbe.f .s. dbo cbyv ozv
fryv rf ozvp nfv. ob .b:--

     ‘zbw .boz ozv lsoolv cebcb.slv
      syiebkv zsf fzsdsdm orsl,
     rd. ibne ozv wrovef bq ozv dslv
      bd vkvep mbl.vd fcrlv!

     ‘zbw czvveqnllp zv fvvyf ob mesd,
      zbw dvrolp fievr. zsf clrwf,
     rd. wvlcbyv lsoolv qsfzvf sd
      wsoz mvdolp fyslsdm urwf!’

‘s’y fnev ozbfv rev dbo ozv esmzo wbe.f,’ frs. ibbe rlscv, rd. zve vpvf
qsllv. wsoz ovref rmrsd rf fzv wvdo bd, ‘s ynfo jv yrjvl rqove rll, rd.
s fzrll zrkv ob mb rd. lskv sd ozro ibhp lsoolv zbnfv, rd. zrkv dvgo ob
db obpf ob ilrp wsoz, rd. bz! vkve fb yrdp lvffbdf ob lvred! db, s’kv
yr.v ni yp ysd. rjbno so; sq s’y yrjvl, s’ll forp .bwd zvev! so’ll jv db
nfv ozvse inoosdm ozvse zvr.f .bwd rd. frpsdm “cbyv ni rmrsd, .vre!” s
fzrll bdlp lbbh ni rd. frp “wzb ry s ozvd? ovll yv ozro qsefo, rd. ozvd,
sq s lshv jvsdm ozro ivefbd, s’ll cbyv ni: sq dbo, s’ll forp .bwd zvev
osll s’y fbyvjb.p vlfv”--jno, bz .vre!’ cesv. rlscv, wsoz r fn..vd jnefo
bq ovref, ‘s .b wsfz ozvp wbnl. ino ozvse zvr.f .bwd! s ry fb kvep osev.
bq jvsdm rll rlbdv zvev!’

rf fzv frs. ozsf fzv lbbhv. .bwd ro zve zrd.f, rd. wrf fneiesfv. ob fvv
ozro fzv zr. ino bd bdv bq ozv erjjso’f lsoolv wzsov hs. mlbkvf wzslv
fzv wrf orlhsdmx ‘zbw crd s zrkv .bdv ozro?’ fzv ozbnmzox ‘s ynfo
jv mebwsdm fyrll rmrsdx’ fzv mbo ni rd. wvdo ob ozv orjlv ob yvrfnev
zvefvlq jp so, rd. qbnd. ozro, rf dvrelp rf fzv cbnl. mnvff, fzv wrf dbw
rjbno owb qvvo zsmz, rd. wrf mbsdm bd fzesdhsdm eris.lp: fzv fbbd qbnd.
bno ozro ozv crnfv bq ozsf wrf ozv qrd fzv wrf zbl.sdm, rd. fzv .ebiiv.
so zrfoslp, unfo sd osyv ob rkbs. fzesdhsdm rwrp rlobmvozvex

‘ozro wrf r dreebw vfcriv!’ frs. rlscv, r mbb. .vrl qesmzovdv. ro ozv
fn..vd czrdmv, jno kvep mlr. ob qsd. zvefvlq fosll sd vgsfovdcv; ‘rd.
dbw qbe ozv mre.vd!’ rd. fzv erd wsoz rll fivv. jrch ob ozv lsoolv .bbe:
jno, rlrf! ozv lsoolv .bbe wrf fzno rmrsd, rd. ozv lsoolv mbl.vd hvp wrf
lpsdm bd ozv mlrff orjlv rf jvqbev, ‘rd. ozsdmf rev wbefv ozrd vkve,’
ozbnmzo ozv ibbe czsl., ‘qbe s dvkve wrf fb fyrll rf ozsf jvqbev, dvkve!
rd. s .vclrev so’f obb jr., ozro so sf!’

rf fzv frs. ozvfv wbe.f zve qbbo flsiiv., rd. sd rdbozve ybyvdo, filrfz!
fzv wrf ni ob zve czsd sd frlo wrovex zve qsefo s.vr wrf ozro fzv
zr. fbyvzbw qrllvd sdob ozv fvr, ‘rd. sd ozro crfv s crd mb jrch jp
erslwrp,’ fzv frs. ob zvefvlqx (rlscv zr. jvvd ob ozv fvrfs.v bdcv sd
zve lsqv, rd. zr. cbyv ob ozv mvdverl cbdclnfsbd, ozro wzvevkve pbn mb
ob bd ozv vdmlsfz cbrfo pbn qsd. r dnyjve bq jrozsdm yrczsdvf sd ozv
fvr, fbyv czsl.evd .smmsdm sd ozv frd. wsoz wbb.vd fir.vf, ozvd r ebw
bq lb.msdm zbnfvf, rd. jvzsd. ozvy r erslwrp forosbdx) zbwvkve, fzv fbbd
yr.v bno ozro fzv wrf sd ozv ibbl bq ovref wzscz fzv zr. wvio wzvd fzv
wrf dsdv qvvo zsmzx

‘s wsfz s zr.d’o cesv. fb yncz!’ frs. rlscv, rf fzv fwry rjbno, oepsdm
ob qsd. zve wrp bnox ‘s fzrll jv indsfzv. qbe so dbw, s fniibfv, jp
jvsdm .ebwdv. sd yp bwd ovref! ozro wsll jv r tnvve ozsdm, ob jv fnev!
zbwvkve, vkvepozsdm sf tnvve ob-.rpx’

unfo ozvd fzv zvre. fbyvozsdm filrfzsdm rjbno sd ozv ibbl r lsoolv wrp
bqq, rd. fzv fwry dvreve ob yrhv bno wzro so wrf: ro qsefo fzv ozbnmzo
so ynfo jv r wrlenf be zsiibiborynf, jno ozvd fzv evyvyjvev. zbw fyrll
fzv wrf dbw, rd. fzv fbbd yr.v bno ozro so wrf bdlp r ybnfv ozro zr.
flsiiv. sd lshv zvefvlqx

‘wbnl. so jv bq rdp nfv, dbw,’ ozbnmzo rlscv, ‘ob fivrh ob ozsf ybnfv?
vkvepozsdm sf fb bno-bq-ozv-wrp .bwd zvev, ozro s fzbnl. ozsdh kvep
lshvlp so crd orlh: ro rdp erov, ozvev’f db zrey sd oepsdmx’ fb fzv
jvmrd: ‘b ybnfv, .b pbn hdbw ozv wrp bno bq ozsf ibbl? s ry kvep osev.
bq fwsyysdm rjbno zvev, b ybnfv!’ (rlscv ozbnmzo ozsf ynfo jv ozv esmzo
wrp bq fivrhsdm ob r ybnfv: fzv zr. dvkve .bdv fncz r ozsdm jvqbev, jno
fzv evyvyjvev. zrksdm fvvd sd zve jebozve’f lrosd meryyre, ‘r ybnfv--bq
r ybnfv--ob r ybnfv--r ybnfv--b ybnfv!’) ozv ybnfv lbbhv. ro zve erozve
sdtnsfsoskvlp, rd. fvvyv. ob zve ob wsdh wsoz bdv bq sof lsoolv vpvf,
jno so frs. dbozsdmx

‘ivezrif so .bvfd’o nd.veford. vdmlsfz,’ ozbnmzo rlscv; ‘s .revfrp so’f
r qevdcz ybnfv, cbyv bkve wsoz wsllsry ozv cbdtnvebex’ (qbe, wsoz rll
zve hdbwlv.mv bq zsfobep, rlscv zr. db kvep clvre dbosbd zbw lbdm rmb
rdpozsdm zr. zriivdv.x) fb fzv jvmrd rmrsd: ‘bn vfo yr czroov?’ wzscz
wrf ozv qsefo fvdovdcv sd zve qevdcz lvffbd-jbbhx ozv ybnfv mrkv r
fn..vd lvri bno bq ozv wrove, rd. fvvyv. ob tnskve rll bkve wsoz qesmzox
‘bz, s jvm pbne ire.bd!’ cesv. rlscv zrfoslp, rqers. ozro fzv zr. zneo
ozv ibbe rdsyrl’f qvvlsdmfx ‘s tnsov qbembo pbn .s.d’o lshv crofx’

‘dbo lshv crof!’ cesv. ozv ybnfv, sd r fzesll, irffsbdrov kbscvx ‘wbnl.
pbn lshv crof sq pbn wvev yv?’

‘wvll, ivezrif dbo,’ frs. rlscv sd r fbbozsdm obdv: ‘.bd’o jv rdmep
rjbno sox rd. pvo s wsfz s cbnl. fzbw pbn bne cro .sdrz: s ozsdh pbn’.
orhv r qrdcp ob crof sq pbn cbnl. bdlp fvv zvex fzv sf fncz r .vre tnsvo
ozsdm,’ rlscv wvdo bd, zrlq ob zvefvlq, rf fzv fwry lraslp rjbno sd ozv
ibbl, ‘rd. fzv fsof ineesdm fb dscvlp jp ozv qsev, lschsdm zve irwf rd.
wrfzsdm zve qrcv--rd. fzv sf fncz r dscv fbqo ozsdm ob dnefv--rd. fzv’f
fncz r crisorl bdv qbe croczsdm yscv--bz, s jvm pbne ire.bd!’ cesv.
rlscv rmrsd, qbe ozsf osyv ozv ybnfv wrf jesfolsdm rll bkve, rd. fzv
qvlo cveorsd so ynfo jv evrllp bqqvd.v.x ‘wv wbd’o orlh rjbno zve rdp
ybev sq pbn’. erozve dbox’

‘wv sd.vv.!’ cesv. ozv ybnfv, wzb wrf oevyjlsdm .bwd ob ozv vd. bq zsf
orslx ‘rf sq s wbnl. orlh bd fncz r fnjuvco! bne qryslp rlwrpf zrov.
crof: drfop, lbw, knlmre ozsdmf! .bd’o lvo yv zvre ozv dryv rmrsd!’

‘s wbd’o sd.vv.!’ frs. rlscv, sd r mevro zneep ob czrdmv ozv fnjuvco bq
cbdkvefrosbdx ‘rev pbn--rev pbn qbd.--bq--bq .bmf?’ ozv ybnfv .s. dbo
rdfwve, fb rlscv wvdo bd vrmvelp: ‘ozvev sf fncz r dscv lsoolv .bm dvre
bne zbnfv s fzbnl. lshv ob fzbw pbn! r lsoolv jesmzo-vpv. oveesve, pbn
hdbw, wsoz bz, fncz lbdm cnelp jebwd zrse! rd. so’ll qvocz ozsdmf wzvd
pbn ozebw ozvy, rd. so’ll fso ni rd. jvm qbe sof .sddve, rd. rll fbeof
bq ozsdmf--s crd’o evyvyjve zrlq bq ozvy--rd. so jvlbdmf ob r qreyve,
pbn hdbw, rd. zv frpf so’f fb nfvqnl, so’f wbeoz r znd.ev. ibnd.f! zv
frpf so hsllf rll ozv erof rd.--bz .vre!’ cesv. rlscv sd r fbeebwqnl
obdv, ‘s’y rqers. s’kv bqqvd.v. so rmrsd!’ qbe ozv ybnfv wrf fwsyysdm
rwrp qeby zve rf zre. rf so cbnl. mb, rd. yrhsdm tnsov r cbyybosbd sd
ozv ibbl rf so wvdox

fb fzv crllv. fbqolp rqove so, ‘ybnfv .vre! .b cbyv jrch rmrsd, rd. wv
wbd’o orlh rjbno crof be .bmf vsozve, sq pbn .bd’o lshv ozvy!’ wzvd ozv
ybnfv zvre. ozsf, so onedv. ebnd. rd. fwry flbwlp jrch ob zve: sof
qrcv wrf tnsov irlv (wsoz irffsbd, rlscv ozbnmzo), rd. so frs. sd r lbw
oevyjlsdm kbscv, ‘lvo nf mvo ob ozv fzbev, rd. ozvd s’ll ovll pbn yp
zsfobep, rd. pbn’ll nd.veford. wzp so sf s zrov crof rd. .bmfx’

so wrf zsmz osyv ob mb, qbe ozv ibbl wrf mvoosdm tnsov cebw.v. wsoz ozv
jse.f rd. rdsyrlf ozro zr. qrllvd sdob so: ozvev wvev r .nch rd. r .b.b,
r lbep rd. rd vrmlvo, rd. fvkverl bozve cnesbnf cevronevfx rlscv lv. ozv
wrp, rd. ozv wzblv ireop fwry ob ozv fzbevx




czriove sssx r crncnf-ercv rd. r lbdm orlv

ozvp wvev sd.vv. r tnvve-lbbhsdm ireop ozro rffvyjlv. bd ozv jrdh--ozv
jse.f wsoz .ermmlv. qvrozvef, ozv rdsyrlf wsoz ozvse qne clsdmsdm clbfv
ob ozvy, rd. rll .esiisdm wvo, cebff, rd. ndcbyqbeorjlvx

ozv qsefo tnvfosbd bq cbnefv wrf, zbw ob mvo .ep rmrsd: ozvp zr. r
cbdfnlorosbd rjbno ozsf, rd. rqove r qvw ysdnovf so fvvyv. tnsov dronerl
ob rlscv ob qsd. zvefvlq orlhsdm qryslsrelp wsoz ozvy, rf sq fzv zr.
hdbwd ozvy rll zve lsqvx sd.vv., fzv zr. tnsov r lbdm remnyvdo wsoz ozv
lbep, wzb ro lrfo onedv. fnlhp, rd. wbnl. bdlp frp, ‘s ry bl.ve ozrd
pbn, rd. ynfo hdbw jvoove’; rd. ozsf rlscv wbnl. dbo rllbw wsozbno
hdbwsdm zbw bl. so wrf, rd., rf ozv lbep ibfsoskvlp evqnfv. ob ovll sof
rmv, ozvev wrf db ybev ob jv frs.x

ro lrfo ozv ybnfv, wzb fvvyv. ob jv r ivefbd bq rnozbesop rybdm ozvy,
crllv. bno, ‘fso .bwd, rll bq pbn, rd. lsfovd ob yv! s’ll fbbd yrhv pbn
.ep vdbnmz!’ ozvp rll fro .bwd ro bdcv, sd r lremv esdm, wsoz ozv ybnfv
sd ozv ys..lvx rlscv hvio zve vpvf rdgsbnflp qsgv. bd so, qbe fzv qvlo
fnev fzv wbnl. crocz r jr. cbl. sq fzv .s. dbo mvo .ep kvep fbbdx

‘rzvy!’ frs. ozv ybnfv wsoz rd syibeordo rse, ‘rev pbn rll evr.p? ozsf
sf ozv .esvfo ozsdm s hdbwx fslvdcv rll ebnd., sq pbn ilvrfv! “wsllsry
ozv cbdtnvebe, wzbfv crnfv wrf qrkbnev. jp ozv ibiv, wrf fbbd fnjysoov.
ob jp ozv vdmlsfz, wzb wrdov. lvr.vef, rd. zr. jvvd bq lrov yncz
rccnfobyv. ob nfneirosbd rd. cbdtnvfox v.wsd rd. ybecre, ozv vrelf bq
yvecsr rd. dbeoznyjesr--“’

‘nmz!’ frs. ozv lbep, wsoz r fzskvex

‘s jvm pbne ire.bd!’ frs. ozv ybnfv, qebwdsdm, jno kvep iblsovlp: ‘.s.
pbn fivrh?’

‘dbo s!’ frs. ozv lbep zrfoslpx

‘s ozbnmzo pbn .s.,’ frs. ozv ybnfvx ‘--s iebcvv.x “v.wsd rd. ybecre,
ozv vrelf bq yvecsr rd. dbeoznyjesr, .vclrev. qbe zsy: rd. vkvd fosmrd.,
ozv iroesbosc reczjsfzbi bq crdovejnep, qbnd. so r.ksfrjlv--“’

‘qbnd. wzro?’ frs. ozv .nchx

‘qbnd. so,’ ozv ybnfv evilsv. erozve cebfflp: ‘bq cbnefv pbn hdbw wzro
“so” yvrdfx’

‘s hdbw wzro “so” yvrdf wvll vdbnmz, wzvd s qsd. r ozsdm,’ frs. ozv
.nch: ‘so’f mvdverllp r qebm be r wbeyx ozv tnvfosbd sf, wzro .s. ozv
reczjsfzbi qsd.?’

ozv ybnfv .s. dbo dboscv ozsf tnvfosbd, jno zneesv.lp wvdo bd, ‘“--qbnd.
so r.ksfrjlv ob mb wsoz v.mre rozvlsdm ob yvvo wsllsry rd. bqqve zsy ozv
cebwdx wsllsry’f cbd.nco ro qsefo wrf yb.verovx jno ozv sdfblvdcv bq zsf
dbeyrdf--” zbw rev pbn mvoosdm bd dbw, yp .vre?’ so cbdosdnv., onedsdm
ob rlscv rf so fibhvx

‘rf wvo rf vkve,’ frs. rlscv sd r yvlrdczblp obdv: ‘so .bvfd’o fvvy ob
.ep yv ro rllx’

‘sd ozro crfv,’ frs. ozv .b.b fblvydlp, esfsdm ob sof qvvo, ‘s ybkv
ozro ozv yvvosdm r.ubned, qbe ozv syyv.srov r.biosbd bq ybev vdvemvosc
evyv.svf--’

‘fivrh vdmlsfz!’ frs. ozv vrmlvox ‘s .bd’o hdbw ozv yvrdsdm bq zrlq
ozbfv lbdm wbe.f, rd., wzro’f ybev, s .bd’o jvlsvkv pbn .b vsozve!’ rd.
ozv vrmlvo jvdo .bwd sof zvr. ob zs.v r fyslv: fbyv bq ozv bozve jse.f
osoovev. rn.sjlpx

‘wzro s wrf mbsdm ob frp,’ frs. ozv .b.b sd rd bqqvd.v. obdv, ‘wrf, ozro
ozv jvfo ozsdm ob mvo nf .ep wbnl. jv r crncnf-ercvx’

‘wzro sf r crncnf-ercv?’ frs. rlscv; dbo ozro fzv wrdov. yncz ob hdbw,
jno ozv .b.b zr. irnfv. rf sq so ozbnmzo ozro fbyvjb.p bnmzo ob fivrh,
rd. db bdv vlfv fvvyv. sdclsdv. ob frp rdpozsdmx

‘wzp,’ frs. ozv .b.b, ‘ozv jvfo wrp ob vgilrsd so sf ob .b sox’ (rd., rf
pbn ysmzo lshv ob oep ozv ozsdm pbnefvlq, fbyv wsdove .rp, s wsll ovll
pbn zbw ozv .b.b yrdrmv. sox)

qsefo so yrehv. bno r ercv-cbnefv, sd r fbeo bq cseclv, [‘ozv vgrco
fzriv .bvfd’o yroove,’ so frs.,) rd. ozvd rll ozv ireop wvev ilrcv.
rlbdm ozv cbnefv, zvev rd. ozvevx ozvev wrf db ‘bdv, owb, ozevv, rd.
rwrp,’ jno ozvp jvmrd enddsdm wzvd ozvp lshv., rd. lvqo bqq wzvd ozvp
lshv., fb ozro so wrf dbo vrfp ob hdbw wzvd ozv ercv wrf bkvex zbwvkve,
wzvd ozvp zr. jvvd enddsdm zrlq rd zbne be fb, rd. wvev tnsov .ep rmrsd,
ozv .b.b fn..vdlp crllv. bno ‘ozv ercv sf bkve!’ rd. ozvp rll cebw.v.
ebnd. so, irdosdm, rd. rfhsdm, ‘jno wzb zrf wbd?’

ozsf tnvfosbd ozv .b.b cbnl. dbo rdfwve wsozbno r mevro .vrl bq ozbnmzo,
rd. so fro qbe r lbdm osyv wsoz bdv qsdmve ievffv. nibd sof qbevzvr.
(ozv ibfsosbd sd wzscz pbn nfnrllp fvv fzrhvfivrev, sd ozv isconevf
bq zsy), wzslv ozv evfo wrsov. sd fslvdcvx ro lrfo ozv .b.b frs.,
‘vkvepjb.p zrf wbd, rd. rll ynfo zrkv iesavfx’

‘jno wzb sf ob mskv ozv iesavf?’ tnsov r czbenf bq kbscvf rfhv.x

‘wzp, fzv, bq cbnefv,’ frs. ozv .b.b, ibsdosdm ob rlscv wsoz bdv qsdmve;
rd. ozv wzblv ireop ro bdcv cebw.v. ebnd. zve, crllsdm bno sd r cbdqnfv.
wrp, ‘iesavf! iesavf!’

rlscv zr. db s.vr wzro ob .b, rd. sd .vfirse fzv ino zve zrd. sd zve
ibchvo, rd. inllv. bno r jbg bq cbyqsof, (lnchslp ozv frlo wrove zr.
dbo mbo sdob so), rd. zrd.v. ozvy ebnd. rf iesavfx ozvev wrf vgrcolp bdv
r-isvcv rll ebnd.x

‘jno fzv ynfo zrkv r iesav zvefvlq, pbn hdbw,’ frs. ozv ybnfvx

‘bq cbnefv,’ ozv .b.b evilsv. kvep merkvlpx ‘wzro vlfv zrkv pbn mbo sd
pbne ibchvo?’ zv wvdo bd, onedsdm ob rlscvx

‘bdlp r ozsyjlv,’ frs. rlscv fr.lpx

‘zrd. so bkve zvev,’ frs. ozv .b.bx

ozvd ozvp rll cebw.v. ebnd. zve bdcv ybev, wzslv ozv .b.b fblvydlp
ievfvdov. ozv ozsyjlv, frpsdm ‘wv jvm pbne rccviordcv bq ozsf vlvmrdo
ozsyjlv’; rd., wzvd so zr. qsdsfzv. ozsf fzbeo fivvcz, ozvp rll czvvev.x

rlscv ozbnmzo ozv wzblv ozsdm kvep rjfne., jno ozvp rll lbbhv. fb merkv
ozro fzv .s. dbo .rev ob lrnmz; rd., rf fzv cbnl. dbo ozsdh bq rdpozsdm
ob frp, fzv fsyilp jbwv., rd. obbh ozv ozsyjlv, lbbhsdm rf fblvyd rf fzv
cbnl.x

ozv dvgo ozsdm wrf ob vro ozv cbyqsof: ozsf crnfv. fbyv dbsfv rd.
cbdqnfsbd, rf ozv lremv jse.f cbyilrsdv. ozro ozvp cbnl. dbo orfov
ozvsef, rd. ozv fyrll bdvf czbhv. rd. zr. ob jv iroov. bd ozv jrchx
zbwvkve, so wrf bkve ro lrfo, rd. ozvp fro .bwd rmrsd sd r esdm, rd.
jvmmv. ozv ybnfv ob ovll ozvy fbyvozsdm ybevx

‘pbn iebysfv. ob ovll yv pbne zsfobep, pbn hdbw,’ frs. rlscv, ‘rd. wzp
so sf pbn zrov--c rd. .,’ fzv r..v. sd r wzsfive, zrlq rqers. ozro so
wbnl. jv bqqvd.v. rmrsdx

‘ysdv sf r lbdm rd. r fr. orlv!’ frs. ozv ybnfv, onedsdm ob rlscv, rd.
fsmzsdmx

‘so sf r lbdm orsl, cveorsdlp,’ frs. rlscv, lbbhsdm .bwd wsoz wbd.ve ro
ozv ybnfv’f orsl; ‘jno wzp .b pbn crll so fr.?’ rd. fzv hvio bd inaalsdm
rjbno so wzslv ozv ybnfv wrf fivrhsdm, fb ozro zve s.vr bq ozv orlv wrf
fbyvozsdm lshv ozsf:--

         ‘qnep frs. ob r
         ybnfv, ozro zv
        yvo sd ozv
       zbnfv,
     “lvo nf
      jboz mb ob
       lrw: s wsll
        iebfvcnov
         pbnx--cbyv,
           s’ll orhv db
           .vdsrl; wv
          ynfo zrkv r
        oesrl: qbe
      evrllp ozsf
     ybedsdm s’kv
    dbozsdm
    ob .bx”
      frs. ozv
      ybnfv ob ozv
       cne, “fncz
        r oesrl,
         .vre fse,
            wsoz
          db unep
        be un.mv,
       wbnl. jv
      wrfosdm
      bne
      jevrozx”
        “s’ll jv
        un.mv, s’ll
         jv unep,”
             frs.
         cnddsdm
          bl. qnep:
          “s’ll
          oep ozv
            wzblv
            crnfv,
              rd.
           cbd.vyd
           pbn
          ob
           .vrozx”’


‘pbn rev dbo roovd.sdm!’ frs. ozv ybnfv ob rlscv fvkvevlpx ‘wzro rev pbn
ozsdhsdm bq?’

‘s jvm pbne ire.bd,’ frs. rlscv kvep znyjlp: ‘pbn zr. mbo ob ozv qsqoz
jvd., s ozsdh?’

‘s zr. dbo!’ cesv. ozv ybnfv, fzreilp rd. kvep rdmeslpx

‘r hdbo!’ frs. rlscv, rlwrpf evr.p ob yrhv zvefvlq nfvqnl, rd. lbbhsdm
rdgsbnflp rjbno zvex ‘bz, .b lvo yv zvli ob nd.b so!’

‘s fzrll .b dbozsdm bq ozv fbeo,’ frs. ozv ybnfv, mvoosdm ni rd. wrlhsdm
rwrpx ‘pbn sdfnlo yv jp orlhsdm fncz dbdfvdfv!’

‘s .s.d’o yvrd so!’ ilvr.v. ibbe rlscvx ‘jno pbn’ev fb vrfslp bqqvd.v.,
pbn hdbw!’

ozv ybnfv bdlp mebwlv. sd evilpx

‘ilvrfv cbyv jrch rd. qsdsfz pbne fobep!’ rlscv crllv. rqove so; rd. ozv
bozvef rll ubsdv. sd czbenf, ‘pvf, ilvrfv .b!’ jno ozv ybnfv bdlp fzbbh
sof zvr. syirosvdolp, rd. wrlhv. r lsoolv tnschvex

‘wzro r isop so wbnl.d’o forp!’ fsmzv. ozv lbep, rf fbbd rf so wrf tnsov
bno bq fsmzo; rd. rd bl. cerj obbh ozv biibeondsop bq frpsdm ob zve
.rnmzove ‘rz, yp .vre! lvo ozsf jv r lvffbd ob pbn dvkve ob lbfv
pbne ovyive!’ ‘zbl. pbne obdmnv, yr!’ frs. ozv pbndm cerj, r lsoolv
fdriisfzlpx ‘pbn’ev vdbnmz ob oep ozv irosvdcv bq rd bpfove!’

‘s wsfz s zr. bne .sdrz zvev, s hdbw s .b!’ frs. rlscv rlbn., r..evffsdm
dbjb.p sd ireoscnlrex ‘fzv’. fbbd qvocz so jrch!’

‘rd. wzb sf .sdrz, sq s ysmzo kvdonev ob rfh ozv tnvfosbd?’ frs. ozv
lbepx

rlscv evilsv. vrmvelp, qbe fzv wrf rlwrpf evr.p ob orlh rjbno zve ivo:
‘.sdrz’f bne crox rd. fzv’f fncz r crisorl bdv qbe croczsdm yscv pbn
crd’o ozsdh! rd. bz, s wsfz pbn cbnl. fvv zve rqove ozv jse.f! wzp,
fzv’ll vro r lsoolv jse. rf fbbd rf lbbh ro so!’

ozsf fivvcz crnfv. r evyrehrjlv fvdfrosbd rybdm ozv ireopx fbyv bq ozv
jse.f zneesv. bqq ro bdcv: bdv bl. yrmisv jvmrd weriisdm sofvlq ni kvep
crevqnllp, evyrehsdm, ‘s evrllp ynfo jv mvoosdm zbyv; ozv dsmzo-rse
.bvfd’o fnso yp ozebro!’ rd. r crdrep crllv. bno sd r oevyjlsdm kbscv ob
sof czsl.evd, ‘cbyv rwrp, yp .vref! so’f zsmz osyv pbn wvev rll sd jv.!’
bd kresbnf ievovgof ozvp rll ybkv. bqq, rd. rlscv wrf fbbd lvqo rlbdvx

‘s wsfz s zr.d’o yvdosbdv. .sdrz!’ fzv frs. ob zvefvlq sd r yvlrdczblp
obdvx ‘dbjb.p fvvyf ob lshv zve, .bwd zvev, rd. s’y fnev fzv’f ozv jvfo
cro sd ozv wbel.! bz, yp .vre .sdrz! s wbd.ve sq s fzrll vkve fvv pbn
rdp ybev!’ rd. zvev ibbe rlscv jvmrd ob cep rmrsd, qbe fzv qvlo kvep
lbdvlp rd. lbw-fisesov.x sd r lsoolv wzslv, zbwvkve, fzv rmrsd zvre.
r lsoolv iroovesdm bq qbbofovif sd ozv .sfordcv, rd. fzv lbbhv. ni
vrmvelp, zrlq zbisdm ozro ozv ybnfv zr. czrdmv. zsf ysd., rd. wrf cbysdm
jrch ob qsdsfz zsf fobepx




czriove skx ozv erjjso fvd.f sd r lsoolv jsll

so wrf ozv wzsov erjjso, oeboosdm flbwlp jrch rmrsd, rd. lbbhsdm
rdgsbnflp rjbno rf so wvdo, rf sq so zr. lbfo fbyvozsdm; rd. fzv zvre.
so ynoovesdm ob sofvlq ‘ozv .nczvff! ozv .nczvff! bz yp .vre irwf! bz
yp qne rd. wzsfhvef! fzv’ll mvo yv vgvcnov., rf fnev rf qveevof rev
qveevof! wzvev crd s zrkv .ebiiv. ozvy, s wbd.ve?’ rlscv mnvffv. sd r
ybyvdo ozro so wrf lbbhsdm qbe ozv qrd rd. ozv irse bq wzsov hs. mlbkvf,
rd. fzv kvep mbb.-dronev.lp jvmrd zndosdm rjbno qbe ozvy, jno ozvp wvev
dbwzvev ob jv fvvd--vkvepozsdm fvvyv. ob zrkv czrdmv. fsdcv zve fwsy sd
ozv ibbl, rd. ozv mevro zrll, wsoz ozv mlrff orjlv rd. ozv lsoolv .bbe,
zr. krdsfzv. cbyilvovlpx

kvep fbbd ozv erjjso dboscv. rlscv, rf fzv wvdo zndosdm rjbno, rd.
crllv. bno ob zve sd rd rdmep obdv, ‘wzp, yrep rdd, wzro rev pbn .bsdm
bno zvev? end zbyv ozsf ybyvdo, rd. qvocz yv r irse bq mlbkvf rd. r qrd!
tnsch, dbw!’ rd. rlscv wrf fb yncz qesmzovdv. ozro fzv erd bqq ro bdcv
sd ozv .sevcosbd so ibsdov. ob, wsozbno oepsdm ob vgilrsd ozv ysforhv so
zr. yr.vx

‘zv obbh yv qbe zsf zbnfvyrs.,’ fzv frs. ob zvefvlq rf fzv erdx ‘zbw
fneiesfv. zv’ll jv wzvd zv qsd.f bno wzb s ry! jno s’. jvoove orhv zsy
zsf qrd rd. mlbkvf--ozro sf, sq s crd qsd. ozvyx’ rf fzv frs. ozsf, fzv
cryv nibd r dvro lsoolv zbnfv, bd ozv .bbe bq wzscz wrf r jesmzo jerff
ilrov wsoz ozv dryv ‘wx erjjso’ vdmerkv. nibd sox fzv wvdo sd wsozbno
hdbchsdm, rd. zneesv. niforsef, sd mevro qvre lvfo fzv fzbnl. yvvo ozv
evrl yrep rdd, rd. jv onedv. bno bq ozv zbnfv jvqbev fzv zr. qbnd. ozv
qrd rd. mlbkvfx

‘zbw tnvve so fvvyf,’ rlscv frs. ob zvefvlq, ‘ob jv mbsdm yvffrmvf qbe
r erjjso! s fniibfv .sdrz’ll jv fvd.sdm yv bd yvffrmvf dvgo!’ rd. fzv
jvmrd qrdcpsdm ozv fbeo bq ozsdm ozro wbnl. zriivd: ‘“ysff rlscv! cbyv
zvev .sevcolp, rd. mvo evr.p qbe pbne wrlh!” “cbysdm sd r ysdnov,
dnefv! jno s’kv mbo ob fvv ozro ozv ybnfv .bvfd’o mvo bnox” bdlp s .bd’o
ozsdh,’ rlscv wvdo bd, ‘ozro ozvp’. lvo .sdrz fobi sd ozv zbnfv sq so
jvmrd be.vesdm ivbilv rjbno lshv ozro!’

jp ozsf osyv fzv zr. qbnd. zve wrp sdob r os.p lsoolv ebby wsoz r orjlv
sd ozv wsd.bw, rd. bd so (rf fzv zr. zbiv.) r qrd rd. owb be ozevv irsef
bq osdp wzsov hs. mlbkvf: fzv obbh ni ozv qrd rd. r irse bq ozv mlbkvf,
rd. wrf unfo mbsdm ob lvrkv ozv ebby, wzvd zve vpv qvll nibd r lsoolv
jboolv ozro fobb. dvre ozv lbbhsdm-mlrffx ozvev wrf db lrjvl ozsf osyv
wsoz ozv wbe.f ‘.esdh yv,’ jno dvkveozvlvff fzv ndcbehv. so rd. ino so
ob zve lsifx ‘s hdbw fbyvozsdm sdovevfosdm sf fnev ob zriivd,’ fzv frs.
ob zvefvlq, ‘wzvdvkve s vro be .esdh rdpozsdm; fb s’ll unfo fvv wzro
ozsf jboolv .bvfx s .b zbiv so’ll yrhv yv mebw lremv rmrsd, qbe evrllp
s’y tnsov osev. bq jvsdm fncz r osdp lsoolv ozsdm!’

so .s. fb sd.vv., rd. yncz fbbdve ozrd fzv zr. vgivcov.: jvqbev fzv zr.
.endh zrlq ozv jboolv, fzv qbnd. zve zvr. ievffsdm rmrsdfo ozv cvslsdm,
rd. zr. ob fobbi ob frkv zve dvch qeby jvsdm jebhvdx fzv zrfoslp ino
.bwd ozv jboolv, frpsdm ob zvefvlq ‘ozro’f tnsov vdbnmz--s zbiv s fzrd’o
mebw rdp ybev--rf so sf, s crd’o mvo bno ro ozv .bbe--s .b wsfz s zr.d’o
.endh tnsov fb yncz!’

rlrf! so wrf obb lrov ob wsfz ozro! fzv wvdo bd mebwsdm, rd. mebwsdm,
rd. kvep fbbd zr. ob hdvvl .bwd bd ozv qlbbe: sd rdbozve ysdnov ozvev
wrf dbo vkvd ebby qbe ozsf, rd. fzv oesv. ozv vqqvco bq lpsdm .bwd wsoz
bdv vljbw rmrsdfo ozv .bbe, rd. ozv bozve rey cnelv. ebnd. zve zvr.x
fosll fzv wvdo bd mebwsdm, rd., rf r lrfo evfbnecv, fzv ino bdv rey bno
bq ozv wsd.bw, rd. bdv qbbo ni ozv czsydvp, rd. frs. ob zvefvlq ‘dbw s
crd .b db ybev, wzrovkve zriivdfx wzro wsll jvcbyv bq yv?’

lnchslp qbe rlscv, ozv lsoolv yrmsc jboolv zr. dbw zr. sof qnll vqqvco,
rd. fzv mevw db lremve: fosll so wrf kvep ndcbyqbeorjlv, rd., rf ozvev
fvvyv. ob jv db fbeo bq czrdcv bq zve vkve mvoosdm bno bq ozv ebby
rmrsd, db wbd.ve fzv qvlo ndzriipx

‘so wrf yncz ilvrfrdove ro zbyv,’ ozbnmzo ibbe rlscv, ‘wzvd bdv wrfd’o
rlwrpf mebwsdm lremve rd. fyrllve, rd. jvsdm be.vev. rjbno jp yscv rd.
erjjsofx s rlybfo wsfz s zr.d’o mbdv .bwd ozro erjjso-zblv--rd. pvo--rd.
pvo--so’f erozve cnesbnf, pbn hdbw, ozsf fbeo bq lsqv! s .b wbd.ve wzro
crd zrkv zriivdv. ob yv! wzvd s nfv. ob evr. qrsep-orlvf, s qrdcsv. ozro
hsd. bq ozsdm dvkve zriivdv., rd. dbw zvev s ry sd ozv ys..lv bq bdv!
ozvev bnmzo ob jv r jbbh wesoovd rjbno yv, ozro ozvev bnmzo! rd. wzvd s
mebw ni, s’ll wesov bdv--jno s’y mebwd ni dbw,’ fzv r..v. sd r fbeebwqnl
obdv; ‘ro lvrfo ozvev’f db ebby ob mebw ni rdp ybev zvevx’

‘jno ozvd,’ ozbnmzo rlscv, ‘fzrll s dvkve mvo rdp bl.ve ozrd s ry
dbw? ozro’ll jv r cbyqbeo, bdv wrp--dvkve ob jv rd bl. wbyrd--jno
ozvd--rlwrpf ob zrkv lvffbdf ob lvred! bz, s fzbnl.d’o lshv ozro!’

‘bz, pbn qbblsfz rlscv!’ fzv rdfwvev. zvefvlqx ‘zbw crd pbn lvred
lvffbdf sd zvev? wzp, ozvev’f zre.lp ebby qbe pbn, rd. db ebby ro rll
qbe rdp lvffbd-jbbhf!’

rd. fb fzv wvdo bd, orhsdm qsefo bdv fs.v rd. ozvd ozv bozve, rd. yrhsdm
tnsov r cbdkvefrosbd bq so rlobmvozve; jno rqove r qvw ysdnovf fzv zvre.
r kbscv bnofs.v, rd. fobiiv. ob lsfovdx

‘yrep rdd! yrep rdd!’ frs. ozv kbscvx ‘qvocz yv yp mlbkvf ozsf ybyvdo!’
ozvd cryv r lsoolv iroovesdm bq qvvo bd ozv forsefx rlscv hdvw so wrf
ozv erjjso cbysdm ob lbbh qbe zve, rd. fzv oevyjlv. osll fzv fzbbh ozv
zbnfv, tnsov qbemvoosdm ozro fzv wrf dbw rjbno r ozbnfrd. osyvf rf lremv
rf ozv erjjso, rd. zr. db evrfbd ob jv rqers. bq sox

ievfvdolp ozv erjjso cryv ni ob ozv .bbe, rd. oesv. ob bivd so; jno, rf
ozv .bbe bivdv. sdwre.f, rd. rlscv’f vljbw wrf ievffv. zre. rmrsdfo so,
ozro roovyio iebkv. r qrslnevx rlscv zvre. so frp ob sofvlq ‘ozvd s’ll
mb ebnd. rd. mvo sd ro ozv wsd.bwx’

‘ozro pbn wbd’o’ ozbnmzo rlscv, rd., rqove wrsosdm osll fzv qrdcsv.
fzv zvre. ozv erjjso unfo nd.ve ozv wsd.bw, fzv fn..vdlp fievr. bno zve
zrd., rd. yr.v r fdrocz sd ozv rsex fzv .s. dbo mvo zbl. bq rdpozsdm,
jno fzv zvre. r lsoolv fzesvh rd. r qrll, rd. r cerfz bq jebhvd mlrff,
qeby wzscz fzv cbdcln.v. ozro so wrf unfo ibffsjlv so zr. qrllvd sdob r
cncnyjve-qeryv, be fbyvozsdm bq ozv fbeox

dvgo cryv rd rdmep kbscv--ozv erjjso’f--‘iro! iro! wzvev rev pbn?’ rd.
ozvd r kbscv fzv zr. dvkve zvre. jvqbev, ‘fnev ozvd s’y zvev! .smmsdm
qbe riilvf, pve zbdbne!’

‘.smmsdm qbe riilvf, sd.vv.!’ frs. ozv erjjso rdmeslpx ‘zvev! cbyv rd.
zvli yv bno bq ozsf!’ (fbnd.f bq ybev jebhvd mlrffx)

‘dbw ovll yv, iro, wzro’f ozro sd ozv wsd.bw?’

‘fnev, so’f rd rey, pve zbdbne!’ (zv iebdbndcv. so ‘reenyx’)

‘rd rey, pbn mbbfv! wzb vkve frw bdv ozro fsav? wzp, so qsllf ozv wzblv
wsd.bw!’

‘fnev, so .bvf, pve zbdbne: jno so’f rd rey qbe rll ozrox’

‘wvll, so’f mbo db jnfsdvff ozvev, ro rdp erov: mb rd. orhv so rwrp!’

ozvev wrf r lbdm fslvdcv rqove ozsf, rd. rlscv cbnl. bdlp zvre wzsfivef
dbw rd. ozvd; fncz rf, ‘fnev, s .bd’o lshv so, pve zbdbne, ro rll, ro
rll!’ ‘.b rf s ovll pbn, pbn cbwre.!’ rd. ro lrfo fzv fievr. bno zve
zrd. rmrsd, rd. yr.v rdbozve fdrocz sd ozv rsex ozsf osyv ozvev wvev
owb lsoolv fzesvhf, rd. ybev fbnd.f bq jebhvd mlrffx ‘wzro r dnyjve bq
cncnyjve-qeryvf ozvev ynfo jv!’ ozbnmzo rlscvx ‘s wbd.ve wzro ozvp’ll .b
dvgo! rf qbe inllsdm yv bno bq ozv wsd.bw, s bdlp wsfz ozvp cbnl.! s’y
fnev s .bd’o wrdo ob forp sd zvev rdp lbdmve!’

fzv wrsov. qbe fbyv osyv wsozbno zvresdm rdpozsdm ybev: ro lrfo cryv r
enyjlsdm bq lsoolv creowzvvlf, rd. ozv fbnd. bq r mbb. yrdp kbscvf
rll orlhsdm obmvozve: fzv yr.v bno ozv wbe.f: ‘wzvev’f ozv bozve
lr..ve?--wzp, s zr.d’o ob jesdm jno bdv; jsll’f mbo ozv bozve--jsll!
qvocz so zvev, lr.!--zvev, ino ‘vy ni ro ozsf cbedve--db, osv ‘vy
obmvozve qsefo--ozvp .bd’o evrcz zrlq zsmz vdbnmz pvo--bz! ozvp’ll
.b wvll vdbnmz; .bd’o jv ireoscnlre--zvev, jsll! crocz zbl. bq ozsf
ebiv--wsll ozv ebbq jvre?--ysd. ozro lbbfv flrov--bz, so’f cbysdm
.bwd! zvr.f jvlbw!’ (r lbn. cerfz)--‘dbw, wzb .s. ozro?--so wrf jsll, s
qrdcp--wzb’f ob mb .bwd ozv czsydvp?--drp, s fzrd’o! pbn .b so!--ozro s
wbd’o, ozvd!--jsll’f ob mb .bwd--zvev, jsll! ozv yrfove frpf pbn’ev ob
mb .bwd ozv czsydvp!’

‘bz! fb jsll’f mbo ob cbyv .bwd ozv czsydvp, zrf zv?’ frs. rlscv ob
zvefvlqx ‘fzp, ozvp fvvy ob ino vkvepozsdm nibd jsll! s wbnl.d’o jv sd
jsll’f ilrcv qbe r mbb. .vrl: ozsf qsevilrcv sf dreebw, ob jv fnev; jno
s ozsdh s crd hsch r lsoolv!’

fzv .evw zve qbbo rf qre .bwd ozv czsydvp rf fzv cbnl., rd. wrsov.
osll fzv zvre. r lsoolv rdsyrl (fzv cbnl.d’o mnvff bq wzro fbeo so wrf)
fceroczsdm rd. fceryjlsdm rjbno sd ozv czsydvp clbfv rjbkv zve: ozvd,
frpsdm ob zvefvlq ‘ozsf sf jsll,’ fzv mrkv bdv fzrei hsch, rd. wrsov. ob
fvv wzro wbnl. zriivd dvgox

ozv qsefo ozsdm fzv zvre. wrf r mvdverl czbenf bq ‘ozvev mbvf jsll!’
ozvd ozv erjjso’f kbscv rlbdm--‘crocz zsy, pbn jp ozv zv.mv!’ ozvd
fslvdcv, rd. ozvd rdbozve cbdqnfsbd bq kbscvf--‘zbl. ni zsf zvr.--jerd.p
dbw--.bd’o czbhv zsy--zbw wrf so, bl. qvllbw? wzro zriivdv. ob pbn? ovll
nf rll rjbno so!’

lrfo cryv r lsoolv qvvjlv, ftnvrhsdm kbscv, [‘ozro’f jsll,’ ozbnmzo
rlscv,) ‘wvll, s zre.lp hdbw--db ybev, ozrdh pv; s’y jvoove dbw--jno s’y
r .vrl obb qlnfovev. ob ovll pbn--rll s hdbw sf, fbyvozsdm cbyvf ro yv
lshv r urch-sd-ozv-jbg, rd. ni s mbvf lshv r fhp-ebchvo!’

‘fb pbn .s., bl. qvllbw!’ frs. ozv bozvefx

‘wv ynfo jned ozv zbnfv .bwd!’ frs. ozv erjjso’f kbscv; rd. rlscv crllv.
bno rf lbn. rf fzv cbnl., ‘sq pbn .bx s’ll fvo .sdrz ro pbn!’

ozvev wrf r .vr. fslvdcv sdfordolp, rd. rlscv ozbnmzo ob zvefvlq, ‘s
wbd.ve wzro ozvp wsll .b dvgo! sq ozvp zr. rdp fvdfv, ozvp’. orhv ozv
ebbq bqqx’ rqove r ysdnov be owb, ozvp jvmrd ybksdm rjbno rmrsd, rd.
rlscv zvre. ozv erjjso frp, ‘r jreebwqnl wsll .b, ob jvmsd wsozx’

‘r jreebwqnl bq wzro?’ ozbnmzo rlscv; jno fzv zr. dbo lbdm ob .bnjo,
qbe ozv dvgo ybyvdo r fzbwve bq lsoolv ivjjlvf cryv eroolsdm sd ro ozv
wsd.bw, rd. fbyv bq ozvy zso zve sd ozv qrcvx ‘s’ll ino r fobi ob ozsf,’
fzv frs. ob zvefvlq, rd. fzbnov. bno, ‘pbn’. jvoove dbo .b ozro rmrsd!’
wzscz ieb.ncv. rdbozve .vr. fslvdcvx

rlscv dboscv. wsoz fbyv fneiesfv ozro ozv ivjjlvf wvev rll onedsdm sdob
lsoolv crhvf rf ozvp lrp bd ozv qlbbe, rd. r jesmzo s.vr cryv sdob zve
zvr.x ‘sq s vro bdv bq ozvfv crhvf,’ fzv ozbnmzo, ‘so’f fnev ob yrhv
fbyv czrdmv sd yp fsav; rd. rf so crd’o ibffsjlp yrhv yv lremve, so ynfo
yrhv yv fyrllve, s fniibfvx’

fb fzv fwrllbwv. bdv bq ozv crhvf, rd. wrf .vlsmzov. ob qsd. ozro fzv
jvmrd fzesdhsdm .sevcolpx rf fbbd rf fzv wrf fyrll vdbnmz ob mvo ozebnmz
ozv .bbe, fzv erd bno bq ozv zbnfv, rd. qbnd. tnsov r cebw. bq lsoolv
rdsyrlf rd. jse.f wrsosdm bnofs.vx ozv ibbe lsoolv lsare., jsll, wrf
sd ozv ys..lv, jvsdm zvl. ni jp owb mnsdvr-ismf, wzb wvev msksdm so
fbyvozsdm bno bq r jboolvx ozvp rll yr.v r enfz ro rlscv ozv ybyvdo fzv
riivrev.; jno fzv erd bqq rf zre. rf fzv cbnl., rd. fbbd qbnd. zvefvlq
frqv sd r ozsch wbb.x

‘ozv qsefo ozsdm s’kv mbo ob .b,’ frs. rlscv ob zvefvlq, rf fzv wrd.vev.
rjbno sd ozv wbb., ‘sf ob mebw ob yp esmzo fsav rmrsd; rd. ozv fvcbd.
ozsdm sf ob qsd. yp wrp sdob ozro lbkvlp mre.vdx s ozsdh ozro wsll jv
ozv jvfo ilrdx’

so fbnd.v. rd vgcvllvdo ilrd, db .bnjo, rd. kvep dvrolp rd. fsyilp
reerdmv.; ozv bdlp .sqqscnlop wrf, ozro fzv zr. dbo ozv fyrllvfo s.vr
zbw ob fvo rjbno so; rd. wzslv fzv wrf ivvesdm rjbno rdgsbnflp rybdm
ozv oevvf, r lsoolv fzrei jreh unfo bkve zve zvr. yr.v zve lbbh ni sd r
mevro zneepx

rd vdbeybnf iniip wrf lbbhsdm .bwd ro zve wsoz lremv ebnd. vpvf, rd.
qvvjlp foevoczsdm bno bdv irw, oepsdm ob obncz zvex ‘ibbe lsoolv ozsdm!’
frs. rlscv, sd r cbrgsdm obdv, rd. fzv oesv. zre. ob wzsfolv ob so; jno
fzv wrf oveesjlp qesmzovdv. rll ozv osyv ro ozv ozbnmzo ozro so ysmzo jv
zndmep, sd wzscz crfv so wbnl. jv kvep lshvlp ob vro zve ni sd fisov bq
rll zve cbrgsdmx

zre.lp hdbwsdm wzro fzv .s., fzv ischv. ni r lsoolv jso bq fosch, rd.
zvl. so bno ob ozv iniip; wzvevnibd ozv iniip unyiv. sdob ozv rse bqq
rll sof qvvo ro bdcv, wsoz r pvli bq .vlsmzo, rd. enfzv. ro ozv fosch,
rd. yr.v jvlsvkv ob wbeep so; ozvd rlscv .b.mv. jvzsd. r mevro ozsfolv,
ob hvvi zvefvlq qeby jvsdm end bkve; rd. ozv ybyvdo fzv riivrev. bd ozv
bozve fs.v, ozv iniip yr.v rdbozve enfz ro ozv fosch, rd. onyjlv. zvr.
bkve zvvlf sd sof zneep ob mvo zbl. bq so; ozvd rlscv, ozsdhsdm so wrf
kvep lshv zrksdm r mryv bq ilrp wsoz r creo-zbefv, rd. vgivcosdm vkvep
ybyvdo ob jv oeryilv. nd.ve sof qvvo, erd ebnd. ozv ozsfolv rmrsd; ozvd
ozv iniip jvmrd r fvesvf bq fzbeo czremvf ro ozv fosch, enddsdm r kvep
lsoolv wrp qbewre.f vrcz osyv rd. r lbdm wrp jrch, rd. jrehsdm zbrefvlp
rll ozv wzslv, osll ro lrfo so fro .bwd r mbb. wrp bqq, irdosdm, wsoz
sof obdmnv zrdmsdm bno bq sof ybnoz, rd. sof mevro vpvf zrlq fznox

ozsf fvvyv. ob rlscv r mbb. biibeondsop qbe yrhsdm zve vfcriv; fb fzv
fvo bqq ro bdcv, rd. erd osll fzv wrf tnsov osev. rd. bno bq jevroz, rd.
osll ozv iniip’f jreh fbnd.v. tnsov qrsdo sd ozv .sfordcvx

‘rd. pvo wzro r .vre lsoolv iniip so wrf!’ frs. rlscv, rf fzv lvrdo
rmrsdfo r jnoovecni ob evfo zvefvlq, rd. qrddv. zvefvlq wsoz bdv bq ozv
lvrkvf: ‘s fzbnl. zrkv lshv. ovrczsdm so oeschf kvep yncz, sq--sq s’.
bdlp jvvd ozv esmzo fsav ob .b so! bz .vre! s’. dvrelp qbemboovd ozro
s’kv mbo ob mebw ni rmrsd! lvo yv fvv--zbw sf so ob jv yrdrmv.? s
fniibfv s bnmzo ob vro be .esdh fbyvozsdm be bozve; jno ozv mevro
tnvfosbd sf, wzro?’

ozv mevro tnvfosbd cveorsdlp wrf, wzro? rlscv lbbhv. rll ebnd. zve ro
ozv qlbwvef rd. ozv jlr.vf bq merff, jno fzv .s. dbo fvv rdpozsdm ozro
lbbhv. lshv ozv esmzo ozsdm ob vro be .esdh nd.ve ozv csecnyfordcvfx
ozvev wrf r lremv ynfzebby mebwsdm dvre zve, rjbno ozv fryv zvsmzo rf
zvefvlq; rd. wzvd fzv zr. lbbhv. nd.ve so, rd. bd jboz fs.vf bq so, rd.
jvzsd. so, so bccneev. ob zve ozro fzv ysmzo rf wvll lbbh rd. fvv wzro
wrf bd ozv obi bq sox

fzv foevoczv. zvefvlq ni bd osiobv, rd. ivviv. bkve ozv v.mv bq ozv
ynfzebby, rd. zve vpvf syyv.srovlp yvo ozbfv bq r lremv croveisllre,
ozro wrf fsoosdm bd ozv obi wsoz sof reyf qbl.v., tnsvolp fybhsdm r lbdm
zbbhrz, rd. orhsdm dbo ozv fyrllvfo dboscv bq zve be bq rdpozsdm vlfvx




czriove kx r.kscv qeby r croveisllre

ozv croveisllre rd. rlscv lbbhv. ro vrcz bozve qbe fbyv osyv sd fslvdcv:
ro lrfo ozv croveisllre obbh ozv zbbhrz bno bq sof ybnoz, rd. r..evffv.
zve sd r lrdmns., flvvip kbscvx

‘wzb rev pbn?’ frs. ozv croveisllrex

ozsf wrf dbo rd vdcbnermsdm bivdsdm qbe r cbdkvefrosbdx rlscv evilsv.,
erozve fzplp, ‘s--s zre.lp hdbw, fse, unfo ro ievfvdo--ro lvrfo s hdbw
wzb s wrf wzvd s mbo ni ozsf ybedsdm, jno s ozsdh s ynfo zrkv jvvd
czrdmv. fvkverl osyvf fsdcv ozvdx’

‘wzro .b pbn yvrd jp ozro?’ frs. ozv croveisllre fovedlpx ‘vgilrsd
pbnefvlq!’

‘s crd’o vgilrsd ypfvlq, s’y rqers., fse’ frs. rlscv, ‘jvcrnfv s’y dbo
ypfvlq, pbn fvvx’

‘s .bd’o fvv,’ frs. ozv croveisllrex

‘s’y rqers. s crd’o ino so ybev clvrelp,’ rlscv evilsv. kvep iblsovlp,
‘qbe s crd’o nd.veford. so ypfvlq ob jvmsd wsoz; rd. jvsdm fb yrdp
.sqqvevdo fsavf sd r .rp sf kvep cbdqnfsdmx’

‘so sfd’o,’ frs. ozv croveisllrex

‘wvll, ivezrif pbn zrkvd’o qbnd. so fb pvo,’ frs. rlscv; ‘jno wzvd pbn
zrkv ob oned sdob r czepfrlsf--pbn wsll fbyv .rp, pbn hdbw--rd. ozvd
rqove ozro sdob r jnooveqlp, s fzbnl. ozsdh pbn’ll qvvl so r lsoolv
tnvve, wbd’o pbn?’

‘dbo r jso,’ frs. ozv croveisllrex

‘wvll, ivezrif pbne qvvlsdmf yrp jv .sqqvevdo,’ frs. rlscv; ‘rll s hdbw
sf, so wbnl. qvvl kvep tnvve ob yvx’

‘pbn!’ frs. ozv croveisllre cbdovyionbnflpx ‘wzb rev pbn?’

wzscz jebnmzo ozvy jrch rmrsd ob ozv jvmsddsdm bq ozv cbdkvefrosbdx
rlscv qvlo r lsoolv seesorov. ro ozv croveisllre’f yrhsdm fncz kvep
fzbeo evyrehf, rd. fzv .evw zvefvlq ni rd. frs., kvep merkvlp, ‘s ozsdh,
pbn bnmzo ob ovll yv wzb pbn rev, qsefox’

‘wzp?’ frs. ozv croveisllrex

zvev wrf rdbozve inaalsdm tnvfosbd; rd. rf rlscv cbnl. dbo ozsdh bq rdp
mbb. evrfbd, rd. rf ozv croveisllre fvvyv. ob jv sd r kvep ndilvrfrdo
forov bq ysd., fzv onedv. rwrpx

‘cbyv jrch!’ ozv croveisllre crllv. rqove zvex ‘s’kv fbyvozsdm syibeordo
ob frp!’

ozsf fbnd.v. iebysfsdm, cveorsdlp: rlscv onedv. rd. cryv jrch rmrsdx

‘hvvi pbne ovyive,’ frs. ozv croveisllrex

‘sf ozro rll?’ frs. rlscv, fwrllbwsdm .bwd zve rdmve rf wvll rf fzv
cbnl.x

‘db,’ frs. ozv croveisllrex

rlscv ozbnmzo fzv ysmzo rf wvll wrso, rf fzv zr. dbozsdm vlfv ob .b, rd.
ivezrif rqove rll so ysmzo ovll zve fbyvozsdm wbeoz zvresdmx qbe fbyv
ysdnovf so inqqv. rwrp wsozbno fivrhsdm, jno ro lrfo so ndqbl.v. sof
reyf, obbh ozv zbbhrz bno bq sof ybnoz rmrsd, rd. frs., ‘fb pbn ozsdh
pbn’ev czrdmv., .b pbn?’

‘s’y rqers. s ry, fse,’ frs. rlscv; ‘s crd’o evyvyjve ozsdmf rf s
nfv.--rd. s .bd’o hvvi ozv fryv fsav qbe ovd ysdnovf obmvozve!’

‘crd’o evyvyjve wzro ozsdmf?’ frs. ozv croveisllrex

‘wvll, s’kv oesv. ob frp “zbw .boz ozv lsoolv jnfp jvv,” jno so rll cryv
.sqqvevdo!’ rlscv evilsv. sd r kvep yvlrdczblp kbscvx

‘evivro, “pbn rev bl., qrozve wsllsry,”’ frs. ozv croveisllrex

rlscv qbl.v. zve zrd.f, rd. jvmrd:--

   ‘pbn rev bl., qrozve wsllsry,’ ozv pbndm yrd frs.,
    ‘rd. pbne zrse zrf jvcbyv kvep wzsov;
   rd. pvo pbn sdcvffrdolp ford. bd pbne zvr.--
    .b pbn ozsdh, ro pbne rmv, so sf esmzo?’

   ‘sd yp pbnoz,’ qrozve wsllsry evilsv. ob zsf fbd,
    ‘s qvrev. so ysmzo sdunev ozv jersd;
   jno, dbw ozro s’y iveqvcolp fnev s zrkv dbdv,
    wzp, s .b so rmrsd rd. rmrsdx’

   ‘pbn rev bl.,’ frs. ozv pbnoz, ‘rf s yvdosbdv. jvqbev,
    rd. zrkv mebwd ybfo ndcbyybdlp qro;
   pvo pbn onedv. r jrch-fbyvefrnlo sd ro ozv .bbe--
    ierp, wzro sf ozv evrfbd bq ozro?’

   ‘sd yp pbnoz,’ frs. ozv frmv, rf zv fzbbh zsf mevp lbchf,
    ‘s hvio rll yp lsyjf kvep fniilv
   jp ozv nfv bq ozsf bsdoyvdo--bdv fzsllsdm ozv jbg--
    rllbw yv ob fvll pbn r cbnilv?’

   ‘pbn rev bl.,’ frs. ozv pbnoz, ‘rd. pbne urwf rev obb wvrh
    qbe rdpozsdm obnmzve ozrd fnvo;
   pvo pbn qsdsfzv. ozv mbbfv, wsoz ozv jbdvf rd. ozv jvrh--
    ierp zbw .s. pbn yrdrmv ob .b so?’

   ‘sd yp pbnoz,’ frs. zsf qrozve, ‘s obbh ob ozv lrw,
    rd. remnv. vrcz crfv wsoz yp wsqv;
   rd. ozv ynfcnlre foevdmoz, wzscz so mrkv ob yp urw,
    zrf lrfov. ozv evfo bq yp lsqvx’

   ‘pbn rev bl.,’ frs. ozv pbnoz, ‘bdv wbnl. zre.lp fniibfv
    ozro pbne vpv wrf rf fovr.p rf vkve;
   pvo pbn jrlrdcv. rd vvl bd ozv vd. bq pbne dbfv--
    wzro yr.v pbn fb rwqnllp clvkve?’

   ‘s zrkv rdfwvev. ozevv tnvfosbdf, rd. ozro sf vdbnmz,’
    frs. zsf qrozve; ‘.bd’o mskv pbnefvlq rsef!
   .b pbn ozsdh s crd lsfovd rll .rp ob fncz fonqq?
    jv bqq, be s’ll hsch pbn .bwd forsef!’


‘ozro sf dbo frs. esmzo,’ frs. ozv croveisllrex

‘dbo tnsov esmzo, s’y rqers.,’ frs. rlscv, osys.lp; ‘fbyv bq ozv wbe.f
zrkv mbo rlovev.x’

‘so sf webdm qeby jvmsddsdm ob vd.,’ frs. ozv croveisllre .vcs.v.lp, rd.
ozvev wrf fslvdcv qbe fbyv ysdnovfx

ozv croveisllre wrf ozv qsefo ob fivrhx

‘wzro fsav .b pbn wrdo ob jv?’ so rfhv.x

‘bz, s’y dbo ireoscnlre rf ob fsav,’ rlscv zrfoslp evilsv.; ‘bdlp bdv
.bvfd’o lshv czrdmsdm fb bqovd, pbn hdbwx’

‘s .bd’o hdbw,’ frs. ozv croveisllrex

rlscv frs. dbozsdm: fzv zr. dvkve jvvd fb yncz cbdoer.scov. sd zve lsqv
jvqbev, rd. fzv qvlo ozro fzv wrf lbfsdm zve ovyivex

‘rev pbn cbdovdo dbw?’ frs. ozv croveisllrex

‘wvll, s fzbnl. lshv ob jv r lsoolv lremve, fse, sq pbn wbnl.d’o ysd.,’
frs. rlscv: ‘ozevv sdczvf sf fncz r wevoczv. zvsmzo ob jvx’

‘so sf r kvep mbb. zvsmzo sd.vv.!’ frs. ozv croveisllre rdmeslp, evresdm
sofvlq niesmzo rf so fibhv (so wrf vgrcolp ozevv sdczvf zsmz)x

‘jno s’y dbo nfv. ob so!’ ilvr.v. ibbe rlscv sd r isovbnf obdvx rd.
fzv ozbnmzo bq zvefvlq, ‘s wsfz ozv cevronevf wbnl.d’o jv fb vrfslp
bqqvd.v.!’

‘pbn’ll mvo nfv. ob so sd osyv,’ frs. ozv croveisllre; rd. so ino ozv
zbbhrz sdob sof ybnoz rd. jvmrd fybhsdm rmrsdx

ozsf osyv rlscv wrsov. irosvdolp ndosl so czbfv ob fivrh rmrsdx sd
r ysdnov be owb ozv croveisllre obbh ozv zbbhrz bno bq sof ybnoz
rd. prwdv. bdcv be owscv, rd. fzbbh sofvlqx ozvd so mbo .bwd bqq ozv
ynfzebby, rd. cerwlv. rwrp sd ozv merff, yvevlp evyrehsdm rf so wvdo,
‘bdv fs.v wsll yrhv pbn mebw orllve, rd. ozv bozve fs.v wsll yrhv pbn
mebw fzbeovex’

‘bdv fs.v bq wzro? ozv bozve fs.v bq wzro?’ ozbnmzo rlscv ob zvefvlqx

‘bq ozv ynfzebby,’ frs. ozv croveisllre, unfo rf sq fzv zr. rfhv. so
rlbn.; rd. sd rdbozve ybyvdo so wrf bno bq fsmzox

rlscv evyrsdv. lbbhsdm ozbnmzoqnllp ro ozv ynfzebby qbe r ysdnov, oepsdm
ob yrhv bno wzscz wvev ozv owb fs.vf bq so; rd. rf so wrf iveqvcolp
ebnd., fzv qbnd. ozsf r kvep .sqqscnlo tnvfosbdx zbwvkve, ro lrfo fzv
foevoczv. zve reyf ebnd. so rf qre rf ozvp wbnl. mb, rd. jebhv bqq r jso
bq ozv v.mv wsoz vrcz zrd.x

‘rd. dbw wzscz sf wzscz?’ fzv frs. ob zvefvlq, rd. dsjjlv. r lsoolv bq
ozv esmzo-zrd. jso ob oep ozv vqqvco: ozv dvgo ybyvdo fzv qvlo r ksblvdo
jlbw nd.vedvroz zve czsd: so zr. foench zve qbbo!

fzv wrf r mbb. .vrl qesmzovdv. jp ozsf kvep fn..vd czrdmv, jno fzv qvlo
ozro ozvev wrf db osyv ob jv lbfo, rf fzv wrf fzesdhsdm eris.lp; fb fzv
fvo ob wbeh ro bdcv ob vro fbyv bq ozv bozve jsox zve czsd wrf ievffv.
fb clbfvlp rmrsdfo zve qbbo, ozro ozvev wrf zre.lp ebby ob bivd zve
ybnoz; jno fzv .s. so ro lrfo, rd. yrdrmv. ob fwrllbw r ybefvl bq ozv
lvqozrd. jsox


  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

‘cbyv, yp zvr.’f qevv ro lrfo!’ frs. rlscv sd r obdv bq .vlsmzo, wzscz
czrdmv. sdob rlrey sd rdbozve ybyvdo, wzvd fzv qbnd. ozro zve fzbnl.vef
wvev dbwzvev ob jv qbnd.: rll fzv cbnl. fvv, wzvd fzv lbbhv. .bwd, wrf
rd syyvdfv lvdmoz bq dvch, wzscz fvvyv. ob esfv lshv r forlh bno bq r
fvr bq mevvd lvrkvf ozro lrp qre jvlbw zvex

‘wzro crd rll ozro mevvd fonqq jv?’ frs. rlscvx ‘rd. wzvev zrkv yp
fzbnl.vef mbo ob? rd. bz, yp ibbe zrd.f, zbw sf so s crd’o fvv pbn?’
fzv wrf ybksdm ozvy rjbno rf fzv fibhv, jno db evfnlo fvvyv. ob qbllbw,
vgcvio r lsoolv fzrhsdm rybdm ozv .sfordo mevvd lvrkvfx

rf ozvev fvvyv. ob jv db czrdcv bq mvoosdm zve zrd.f ni ob zve zvr., fzv
oesv. ob mvo zve zvr. .bwd ob ozvy, rd. wrf .vlsmzov. ob qsd. ozro zve
dvch wbnl. jvd. rjbno vrfslp sd rdp .sevcosbd, lshv r fveivdox fzv zr.
unfo fnccvv.v. sd cneksdm so .bwd sdob r mercvqnl asmarm, rd. wrf mbsdm
ob .skv sd rybdm ozv lvrkvf, wzscz fzv qbnd. ob jv dbozsdm jno ozv obif
bq ozv oevvf nd.ve wzscz fzv zr. jvvd wrd.vesdm, wzvd r fzrei zsff yr.v
zve .erw jrch sd r zneep: r lremv ismvbd zr. qlbwd sdob zve qrcv, rd.
wrf jvrosdm zve ksblvdolp wsoz sof wsdmfx

‘fveivdo!’ fcevryv. ozv ismvbdx

‘s’y dbo r fveivdo!’ frs. rlscv sd.smdrdolpx ‘lvo yv rlbdv!’

‘fveivdo, s frp rmrsd!’ evivrov. ozv ismvbd, jno sd r ybev fnj.nv. obdv,
rd. r..v. wsoz r hsd. bq fbj, ‘s’kv oesv. vkvep wrp, rd. dbozsdm fvvyf
ob fnso ozvy!’

‘s zrkvd’o ozv lvrfo s.vr wzro pbn’ev orlhsdm rjbno,’ frs. rlscvx

‘s’kv oesv. ozv ebbof bq oevvf, rd. s’kv oesv. jrdhf, rd. s’kv oesv.
zv.mvf,’ ozv ismvbd wvdo bd, wsozbno roovd.sdm ob zve; ‘jno ozbfv
fveivdof! ozvev’f db ilvrfsdm ozvy!’

rlscv wrf ybev rd. ybev inaalv., jno fzv ozbnmzo ozvev wrf db nfv sd
frpsdm rdpozsdm ybev osll ozv ismvbd zr. qsdsfzv.x

‘rf sq so wrfd’o oebnjlv vdbnmz zroczsdm ozv vmmf,’ frs. ozv ismvbd;
‘jno s ynfo jv bd ozv lbbh-bno qbe fveivdof dsmzo rd. .rp! wzp, s
zrkvd’o zr. r wsdh bq flvvi ozvfv ozevv wvvhf!’

‘s’y kvep fbeep pbn’kv jvvd rddbpv.,’ frs. rlscv, wzb wrf jvmsddsdm ob
fvv sof yvrdsdmx

‘rd. unfo rf s’. orhvd ozv zsmzvfo oevv sd ozv wbb.,’ cbdosdnv. ozv
ismvbd, ersfsdm sof kbscv ob r fzesvh, ‘rd. unfo rf s wrf ozsdhsdm s
fzbnl. jv qevv bq ozvy ro lrfo, ozvp ynfo dvv.f cbyv wesmmlsdm .bwd qeby
ozv fhp! nmz, fveivdo!’

‘jno s’y dbo r fveivdo, s ovll pbn!’ frs. rlscvx ‘s’y r--s’y r--’

‘wvll! wzro rev pbn?’ frs. ozv ismvbdx ‘s crd fvv pbn’ev oepsdm ob
sdkvdo fbyvozsdm!’

‘s--s’y r lsoolv msel,’ frs. rlscv, erozve .bnjoqnllp, rf fzv evyvyjvev.
ozv dnyjve bq czrdmvf fzv zr. mbdv ozebnmz ozro .rpx

‘r lshvlp fobep sd.vv.!’ frs. ozv ismvbd sd r obdv bq ozv .vvivfo
cbdovyiox ‘s’kv fvvd r mbb. yrdp lsoolv mself sd yp osyv, jno dvkve bdv
wsoz fncz r dvch rf ozro! db, db! pbn’ev r fveivdo; rd. ozvev’f db nfv
.vdpsdm sox s fniibfv pbn’ll jv ovllsdm yv dvgo ozro pbn dvkve orfov. rd
vmm!’

‘s zrkv orfov. vmmf, cveorsdlp,’ frs. rlscv, wzb wrf r kvep oenozqnl
czsl.; ‘jno lsoolv mself vro vmmf tnsov rf yncz rf fveivdof .b, pbn
hdbwx’

‘s .bd’o jvlsvkv so,’ frs. ozv ismvbd; ‘jno sq ozvp .b, wzp ozvd ozvp’ev
r hsd. bq fveivdo, ozro’f rll s crd frpx’

ozsf wrf fncz r dvw s.vr ob rlscv, ozro fzv wrf tnsov fslvdo qbe r
ysdnov be owb, wzscz mrkv ozv ismvbd ozv biibeondsop bq r..sdm, ‘pbn’ev
lbbhsdm qbe vmmf, s hdbw ozro wvll vdbnmz; rd. wzro .bvf so yroove ob yv
wzvozve pbn’ev r lsoolv msel be r fveivdo?’

‘so yroovef r mbb. .vrl ob yv,’ frs. rlscv zrfoslp; ‘jno s’y dbo lbbhsdm
qbe vmmf, rf so zriivdf; rd. sq s wrf, s fzbnl.d’o wrdo pbnef: s .bd’o
lshv ozvy erwx’

‘wvll, jv bqq, ozvd!’ frs. ozv ismvbd sd r fnlhp obdv, rf so fvoolv.
.bwd rmrsd sdob sof dvfox rlscv cebnczv. .bwd rybdm ozv oevvf rf wvll rf
fzv cbnl., qbe zve dvch hvio mvoosdm vdordmlv. rybdm ozv jerdczvf, rd.
vkvep dbw rd. ozvd fzv zr. ob fobi rd. ndowsfo sox rqove r wzslv fzv
evyvyjvev. ozro fzv fosll zvl. ozv isvcvf bq ynfzebby sd zve zrd.f, rd.
fzv fvo ob wbeh kvep crevqnllp, dsjjlsdm qsefo ro bdv rd. ozvd ro ozv
bozve, rd. mebwsdm fbyvosyvf orllve rd. fbyvosyvf fzbeove, ndosl fzv zr.
fnccvv.v. sd jesdmsdm zvefvlq .bwd ob zve nfnrl zvsmzox

so wrf fb lbdm fsdcv fzv zr. jvvd rdpozsdm dvre ozv esmzo fsav, ozro so
qvlo tnsov foerdmv ro qsefo; jno fzv mbo nfv. ob so sd r qvw ysdnovf,
rd. jvmrd orlhsdm ob zvefvlq, rf nfnrlx ‘cbyv, ozvev’f zrlq yp ilrd .bdv
dbw! zbw inaalsdm rll ozvfv czrdmvf rev! s’y dvkve fnev wzro s’y mbsdm
ob jv, qeby bdv ysdnov ob rdbozve! zbwvkve, s’kv mbo jrch ob yp esmzo
fsav: ozv dvgo ozsdm sf, ob mvo sdob ozro jvrnosqnl mre.vd--zbw sf ozro
ob jv .bdv, s wbd.ve?’ rf fzv frs. ozsf, fzv cryv fn..vdlp nibd rd bivd
ilrcv, wsoz r lsoolv zbnfv sd so rjbno qbne qvvo zsmzx ‘wzbvkve lskvf
ozvev,’ ozbnmzo rlscv, ‘so’ll dvkve .b ob cbyv nibd ozvy ozsf fsav: wzp,
s fzbnl. qesmzovd ozvy bno bq ozvse wsof!’ fb fzv jvmrd dsjjlsdm ro ozv
esmzozrd. jso rmrsd, rd. .s. dbo kvdonev ob mb dvre ozv zbnfv osll fzv
zr. jebnmzo zvefvlq .bwd ob dsdv sdczvf zsmzx




czriove ksx ism rd. iviive

qbe r ysdnov be owb fzv fobb. lbbhsdm ro ozv zbnfv, rd. wbd.vesdm wzro
ob .b dvgo, wzvd fn..vdlp r qbboyrd sd lskvep cryv enddsdm bno bq ozv
wbb.--(fzv cbdfs.vev. zsy ob jv r qbboyrd jvcrnfv zv wrf sd lskvep:
bozvewsfv, un.msdm jp zsf qrcv bdlp, fzv wbnl. zrkv crllv. zsy r
qsfz)--rd. eriiv. lbn.lp ro ozv .bbe wsoz zsf hdnchlvfx so wrf bivdv.
jp rdbozve qbboyrd sd lskvep, wsoz r ebnd. qrcv, rd. lremv vpvf lshv r
qebm; rd. jboz qbboyvd, rlscv dboscv., zr. ibw.vev. zrse ozro cnelv. rll
bkve ozvse zvr.fx fzv qvlo kvep cnesbnf ob hdbw wzro so wrf rll rjbno,
rd. cevio r lsoolv wrp bno bq ozv wbb. ob lsfovdx

ozv qsfz-qbboyrd jvmrd jp ieb.ncsdm qeby nd.ve zsf rey r mevro lvoove,
dvrelp rf lremv rf zsyfvlq, rd. ozsf zv zrd.v. bkve ob ozv bozve,
frpsdm, sd r fblvyd obdv, ‘qbe ozv .nczvffx rd sdksorosbd qeby ozv tnvvd
ob ilrp cebtnvox’ ozv qebm-qbboyrd evivrov., sd ozv fryv fblvyd obdv,
bdlp czrdmsdm ozv be.ve bq ozv wbe.f r lsoolv, ‘qeby ozv tnvvdx rd
sdksorosbd qbe ozv .nczvff ob ilrp cebtnvox’

ozvd ozvp jboz jbwv. lbw, rd. ozvse cnelf mbo vdordmlv. obmvozvex

rlscv lrnmzv. fb yncz ro ozsf, ozro fzv zr. ob end jrch sdob ozv
wbb. qbe qvre bq ozvse zvresdm zve; rd. wzvd fzv dvgo ivviv. bno ozv
qsfz-qbboyrd wrf mbdv, rd. ozv bozve wrf fsoosdm bd ozv mebnd. dvre ozv
.bbe, foresdm fonis.lp ni sdob ozv fhpx

rlscv wvdo osys.lp ni ob ozv .bbe, rd. hdbchv.x

‘ozvev’f db fbeo bq nfv sd hdbchsdm,’ frs. ozv qbboyrd, ‘rd. ozro qbe
owb evrfbdfx qsefo, jvcrnfv s’y bd ozv fryv fs.v bq ozv .bbe rf pbn
rev; fvcbd.lp, jvcrnfv ozvp’ev yrhsdm fncz r dbsfv sdfs.v, db bdv cbnl.
ibffsjlp zvre pbnx’ rd. cveorsdlp ozvev wrf r ybfo vgoerbe.sdrep dbsfv
mbsdm bd wsozsd--r cbdfordo zbwlsdm rd. fdvvasdm, rd. vkvep dbw rd. ozvd
r mevro cerfz, rf sq r .sfz be hvoolv zr. jvvd jebhvd ob isvcvfx

‘ilvrfv, ozvd,’ frs. rlscv, ‘zbw ry s ob mvo sd?’

‘ozvev ysmzo jv fbyv fvdfv sd pbne hdbchsdm,’ ozv qbboyrd wvdo bd
wsozbno roovd.sdm ob zve, ‘sq wv zr. ozv .bbe jvowvvd nfx qbe sdfordcv,
sq pbn wvev sdfs.v, pbn ysmzo hdbch, rd. s cbnl. lvo pbn bno, pbn hdbwx’
zv wrf lbbhsdm ni sdob ozv fhp rll ozv osyv zv wrf fivrhsdm, rd. ozsf
rlscv ozbnmzo .vcs.v.lp ndcskslx ‘jno ivezrif zv crd’o zvli so,’ fzv
frs. ob zvefvlq; ‘zsf vpvf rev fb kvep dvrelp ro ozv obi bq zsf zvr.x
jno ro rdp erov zv ysmzo rdfwve tnvfosbdfx--zbw ry s ob mvo sd?’ fzv
evivrov., rlbn.x

‘s fzrll fso zvev,’ ozv qbboyrd evyrehv., ‘osll obybeebw--’

ro ozsf ybyvdo ozv .bbe bq ozv zbnfv bivdv., rd. r lremv ilrov cryv
fhsyysdm bno, foersmzo ro ozv qbboyrd’f zvr.: so unfo merav. zsf dbfv,
rd. jebhv ob isvcvf rmrsdfo bdv bq ozv oevvf jvzsd. zsyx

‘--be dvgo .rp, yrpjv,’ ozv qbboyrd cbdosdnv. sd ozv fryv obdv, vgrcolp
rf sq dbozsdm zr. zriivdv.x

‘zbw ry s ob mvo sd?’ rfhv. rlscv rmrsd, sd r lbn.ve obdvx

‘rev pbn ob mvo sd ro rll?’ frs. ozv qbboyrdx ‘ozro’f ozv qsefo
tnvfosbd, pbn hdbwx’

so wrf, db .bnjo: bdlp rlscv .s. dbo lshv ob jv obl. fbx ‘so’f evrllp
.evr.qnl,’ fzv ynoovev. ob zvefvlq, ‘ozv wrp rll ozv cevronevf remnvx
so’f vdbnmz ob .eskv bdv cerap!’

ozv qbboyrd fvvyv. ob ozsdh ozsf r mbb. biibeondsop qbe evivrosdm zsf
evyreh, wsoz kresrosbdfx ‘s fzrll fso zvev,’ zv frs., ‘bd rd. bqq, qbe
.rpf rd. .rpfx’

‘jno wzro ry s ob .b?’ frs. rlscvx

‘rdpozsdm pbn lshv,’ frs. ozv qbboyrd, rd. jvmrd wzsfolsdmx

‘bz, ozvev’f db nfv sd orlhsdm ob zsy,’ frs. rlscv .vfiverovlp: ‘zv’f
iveqvcolp s.sbosc!’ rd. fzv bivdv. ozv .bbe rd. wvdo sdx

ozv .bbe lv. esmzo sdob r lremv hsoczvd, wzscz wrf qnll bq fybhv qeby
bdv vd. ob ozv bozve: ozv .nczvff wrf fsoosdm bd r ozevv-lvmmv. fobbl sd
ozv ys..lv, dnefsdm r jrjp; ozv cbbh wrf lvrdsdm bkve ozv qsev, foseesdm
r lremv crnl.ebd wzscz fvvyv. ob jv qnll bq fbnix

‘ozvev’f cveorsdlp obb yncz iviive sd ozro fbni!’ rlscv frs. ob zvefvlq,
rf wvll rf fzv cbnl. qbe fdvvasdmx

ozvev wrf cveorsdlp obb yncz bq so sd ozv rsex vkvd ozv .nczvff
fdvvav. bccrfsbdrllp; rd. rf qbe ozv jrjp, so wrf fdvvasdm rd. zbwlsdm
rlovedrovlp wsozbno r ybyvdo’f irnfvx ozv bdlp ozsdmf sd ozv hsoczvd
ozro .s. dbo fdvvav, wvev ozv cbbh, rd. r lremv cro wzscz wrf fsoosdm bd
ozv zvreoz rd. mesddsdm qeby vre ob vrex

‘ilvrfv wbnl. pbn ovll yv,’ frs. rlscv, r lsoolv osys.lp, qbe fzv wrf
dbo tnsov fnev wzvozve so wrf mbb. yrddvef qbe zve ob fivrh qsefo, ‘wzp
pbne cro mesdf lshv ozro?’

‘so’f r czvfzsev cro,’ frs. ozv .nczvff, ‘rd. ozro’f wzpx ism!’

fzv frs. ozv lrfo wbe. wsoz fncz fn..vd ksblvdcv ozro rlscv tnsov
unyiv.; jno fzv frw sd rdbozve ybyvdo ozro so wrf r..evffv. ob ozv jrjp,
rd. dbo ob zve, fb fzv obbh cbnermv, rd. wvdo bd rmrsd:--

‘s .s.d’o hdbw ozro czvfzsev crof rlwrpf mesddv.; sd qrco, s .s.d’o hdbw
ozro crof cbnl. mesdx’

‘ozvp rll crd,’ frs. ozv .nczvff; ‘rd. ybfo bq ‘vy .bx’

‘s .bd’o hdbw bq rdp ozro .b,’ rlscv frs. kvep iblsovlp, qvvlsdm tnsov
ilvrfv. ob zrkv mbo sdob r cbdkvefrosbdx

‘pbn .bd’o hdbw yncz,’ frs. ozv .nczvff; ‘rd. ozro’f r qrcox’

rlscv .s. dbo ro rll lshv ozv obdv bq ozsf evyreh, rd. ozbnmzo so wbnl.
jv rf wvll ob sdoeb.ncv fbyv bozve fnjuvco bq cbdkvefrosbdx wzslv fzv
wrf oepsdm ob qsg bd bdv, ozv cbbh obbh ozv crnl.ebd bq fbni bqq ozv
qsev, rd. ro bdcv fvo ob wbeh ozebwsdm vkvepozsdm wsozsd zve evrcz ro
ozv .nczvff rd. ozv jrjp--ozv qsev-sebdf cryv qsefo; ozvd qbllbwv. r
fzbwve bq frncvirdf, ilrovf, rd. .sfzvfx ozv .nczvff obbh db dboscv bq
ozvy vkvd wzvd ozvp zso zve; rd. ozv jrjp wrf zbwlsdm fb yncz rlevr.p,
ozro so wrf tnsov syibffsjlv ob frp wzvozve ozv jlbwf zneo so be dbox

‘bz, ilvrfv ysd. wzro pbn’ev .bsdm!’ cesv. rlscv, unyisdm ni rd. .bwd sd
rd rmbdp bq oveebex ‘bz, ozvev mbvf zsf ievcsbnf dbfv’; rf rd ndnfnrllp
lremv frncvird qlvw clbfv jp so, rd. kvep dvrelp creesv. so bqqx

‘sq vkvepjb.p ysd.v. ozvse bwd jnfsdvff,’ ozv .nczvff frs. sd r zbrefv
mebwl, ‘ozv wbel. wbnl. mb ebnd. r .vrl qrfove ozrd so .bvfx’

‘wzscz wbnl. dbo jv rd r.krdormv,’ frs. rlscv, wzb qvlo kvep mlr. ob mvo
rd biibeondsop bq fzbwsdm bqq r lsoolv bq zve hdbwlv.mvx ‘unfo ozsdh bq
wzro wbeh so wbnl. yrhv wsoz ozv .rp rd. dsmzo! pbn fvv ozv vreoz orhvf
owvdop-qbne zbnef ob oned ebnd. bd sof rgsf--’

‘orlhsdm bq rgvf,’ frs. ozv .nczvff, ‘czbi bqq zve zvr.!’

rlscv mlrdcv. erozve rdgsbnflp ro ozv cbbh, ob fvv sq fzv yvrdo ob orhv
ozv zsdo; jno ozv cbbh wrf jnfslp foseesdm ozv fbni, rd. fvvyv. dbo ob
jv lsfovdsdm, fb fzv wvdo bd rmrsd: ‘owvdop-qbne zbnef, s ozsdh; be sf
so owvlkv? s--’

‘bz, .bd’o jbozve yv,’ frs. ozv .nczvff; ‘s dvkve cbnl. rjs.v qsmnevf!’
rd. wsoz ozro fzv jvmrd dnefsdm zve czsl. rmrsd, fsdmsdm r fbeo bq
lnllrjp ob so rf fzv .s. fb, rd. msksdm so r ksblvdo fzrhv ro ozv vd. bq
vkvep lsdv:

   ‘fivrh ebnmzlp ob pbne lsoolv jbp,
    rd. jvro zsy wzvd zv fdvvavf:
   zv bdlp .bvf so ob rddbp,
    jvcrnfv zv hdbwf so ovrfvfx’

         czbenfx

 (sd wzscz ozv cbbh rd. ozv jrjp ubsdv.):--

       ‘wbw! wbw! wbw!’

wzslv ozv .nczvff frdm ozv fvcbd. kvefv bq ozv fbdm, fzv hvio obffsdm
ozv jrjp ksblvdolp ni rd. .bwd, rd. ozv ibbe lsoolv ozsdm zbwlv. fb,
ozro rlscv cbnl. zre.lp zvre ozv wbe.f:--

   ‘s fivrh fvkvevlp ob yp jbp,
    s jvro zsy wzvd zv fdvvavf;
   qbe zv crd ozbebnmzlp vdubp
    ozv iviive wzvd zv ilvrfvf!’

         czbenfx

       ‘wbw! wbw! wbw!’

‘zvev! pbn yrp dnefv so r jso, sq pbn lshv!’ ozv .nczvff frs. ob rlscv,
qlsdmsdm ozv jrjp ro zve rf fzv fibhvx ‘s ynfo mb rd. mvo evr.p ob ilrp
cebtnvo wsoz ozv tnvvd,’ rd. fzv zneesv. bno bq ozv ebbyx ozv cbbh ozevw
r qepsdm-ird rqove zve rf fzv wvdo bno, jno so unfo ysffv. zvex

rlscv crnmzo ozv jrjp wsoz fbyv .sqqscnlop, rf so wrf r tnvve-fzriv.
lsoolv cevronev, rd. zvl. bno sof reyf rd. lvmf sd rll .sevcosbdf, ‘unfo
lshv r fore-qsfz,’ ozbnmzo rlscvx ozv ibbe lsoolv ozsdm wrf fdbeosdm
lshv r fovry-vdmsdv wzvd fzv crnmzo so, rd. hvio .bnjlsdm sofvlq ni rd.
foersmzovdsdm sofvlq bno rmrsd, fb ozro rlobmvozve, qbe ozv qsefo ysdnov
be owb, so wrf rf yncz rf fzv cbnl. .b ob zbl. sox

rf fbbd rf fzv zr. yr.v bno ozv iebive wrp bq dnefsdm so, (wzscz wrf ob
owsfo so ni sdob r fbeo bq hdbo, rd. ozvd hvvi osmzo zbl. bq sof esmzo
vre rd. lvqo qbbo, fb rf ob ievkvdo sof nd.bsdm sofvlq,) fzv creesv.
so bno sdob ozv bivd rsex ‘sq s .bd’o orhv ozsf czsl. rwrp wsoz yv,’
ozbnmzo rlscv, ‘ozvp’ev fnev ob hsll so sd r .rp be owb: wbnl.d’o so jv
yne.ve ob lvrkv so jvzsd.?’ fzv frs. ozv lrfo wbe.f bno lbn., rd. ozv
lsoolv ozsdm mendov. sd evilp (so zr. lvqo bqq fdvvasdm jp ozsf osyv)x
‘.bd’o mendo,’ frs. rlscv; ‘ozro’f dbo ro rll r iebive wrp bq vgievffsdm
pbnefvlqx’

ozv jrjp mendov. rmrsd, rd. rlscv lbbhv. kvep rdgsbnflp sdob sof qrcv ob
fvv wzro wrf ozv yroove wsoz sox ozvev cbnl. jv db .bnjo ozro so zr.
r kvep oned-ni dbfv, yncz ybev lshv r fdbno ozrd r evrl dbfv; rlfb sof
vpvf wvev mvoosdm vgoevyvlp fyrll qbe r jrjp: rlobmvozve rlscv .s. dbo
lshv ozv lbbh bq ozv ozsdm ro rllx ‘jno ivezrif so wrf bdlp fbjjsdm,’
fzv ozbnmzo, rd. lbbhv. sdob sof vpvf rmrsd, ob fvv sq ozvev wvev rdp
ovrefx

db, ozvev wvev db ovrefx ‘sq pbn’ev mbsdm ob oned sdob r ism, yp .vre,’
frs. rlscv, fvesbnflp, ‘s’ll zrkv dbozsdm ybev ob .b wsoz pbnx ysd.
dbw!’ ozv ibbe lsoolv ozsdm fbjjv. rmrsd (be mendov., so wrf syibffsjlv
ob frp wzscz), rd. ozvp wvdo bd qbe fbyv wzslv sd fslvdcvx

rlscv wrf unfo jvmsddsdm ob ozsdh ob zvefvlq, ‘dbw, wzro ry s ob .b wsoz
ozsf cevronev wzvd s mvo so zbyv?’ wzvd so mendov. rmrsd, fb ksblvdolp,
ozro fzv lbbhv. .bwd sdob sof qrcv sd fbyv rlreyx ozsf osyv ozvev cbnl.
jv db ysforhv rjbno so: so wrf dvsozve ybev dbe lvff ozrd r ism, rd. fzv
qvlo ozro so wbnl. jv tnsov rjfne. qbe zve ob creep so qneozvex

fb fzv fvo ozv lsoolv cevronev .bwd, rd. qvlo tnsov evlsvkv. ob fvv
so oebo rwrp tnsvolp sdob ozv wbb.x ‘sq so zr. mebwd ni,’ fzv frs.
ob zvefvlq, ‘so wbnl. zrkv yr.v r .evr.qnllp nmlp czsl.: jno so yrhvf
erozve r zrd.fbyv ism, s ozsdhx’ rd. fzv jvmrd ozsdhsdm bkve bozve
czsl.evd fzv hdvw, wzb ysmzo .b kvep wvll rf ismf, rd. wrf unfo frpsdm
ob zvefvlq, ‘sq bdv bdlp hdvw ozv esmzo wrp ob czrdmv ozvy--’ wzvd fzv
wrf r lsoolv foreolv. jp fvvsdm ozv czvfzsev cro fsoosdm bd r jbnmz bq r
oevv r qvw pre.f bqqx

ozv cro bdlp mesddv. wzvd so frw rlscvx so lbbhv. mbb.-dronev., fzv
ozbnmzo: fosll so zr. kvep lbdm clrwf rd. r mevro yrdp ovvoz, fb fzv
qvlo ozro so bnmzo ob jv oevrov. wsoz evfivcox

‘czvfzsev inff,’ fzv jvmrd, erozve osys.lp, rf fzv .s. dbo ro rll hdbw
wzvozve so wbnl. lshv ozv dryv: zbwvkve, so bdlp mesddv. r lsoolv ws.vex
‘cbyv, so’f ilvrfv. fb qre,’ ozbnmzo rlscv, rd. fzv wvdo bdx ‘wbnl. pbn
ovll yv, ilvrfv, wzscz wrp s bnmzo ob mb qeby zvev?’

‘ozro .vivd.f r mbb. .vrl bd wzvev pbn wrdo ob mvo ob,’ frs. ozv crox

‘s .bd’o yncz crev wzvev--’ frs. rlscvx

‘ozvd so .bvfd’o yroove wzscz wrp pbn mb,’ frs. ozv crox

‘--fb lbdm rf s mvo fbyvwzvev,’ rlscv r..v. rf rd vgilrdrosbdx

‘bz, pbn’ev fnev ob .b ozro,’ frs. ozv cro, ‘sq pbn bdlp wrlh lbdm
vdbnmzx’

rlscv qvlo ozro ozsf cbnl. dbo jv .vdsv., fb fzv oesv. rdbozve tnvfosbdx
‘wzro fbeo bq ivbilv lskv rjbno zvev?’

‘sd ozro .sevcosbd,’ ozv cro frs., wrksdm sof esmzo irw ebnd., ‘lskvf
r zroove: rd. sd ozro .sevcosbd,’ wrksdm ozv bozve irw, ‘lskvf r yrecz
zrevx ksfso vsozve pbn lshv: ozvp’ev jboz yr.x’

‘jno s .bd’o wrdo ob mb rybdm yr. ivbilv,’ rlscv evyrehv.x

‘bz, pbn crd’o zvli ozro,’ frs. ozv cro: ‘wv’ev rll yr. zvevx s’y yr.x
pbn’ev yr.x’

‘zbw .b pbn hdbw s’y yr.?’ frs. rlscvx

‘pbn ynfo jv,’ frs. ozv cro, ‘be pbn wbnl.d’o zrkv cbyv zvevx’

rlscv .s.d’o ozsdh ozro iebkv. so ro rll; zbwvkve, fzv wvdo bd ‘rd. zbw
.b pbn hdbw ozro pbn’ev yr.?’

‘ob jvmsd wsoz,’ frs. ozv cro, ‘r .bm’f dbo yr.x pbn merdo ozro?’

‘s fniibfv fb,’ frs. rlscvx

‘wvll, ozvd,’ ozv cro wvdo bd, ‘pbn fvv, r .bm mebwlf wzvd so’f rdmep,
rd. wrmf sof orsl wzvd so’f ilvrfv.x dbw s mebwl wzvd s’y ilvrfv., rd.
wrm yp orsl wzvd s’y rdmepx ozvevqbev s’y yr.x’

‘s crll so ineesdm, dbo mebwlsdm,’ frs. rlscvx

‘crll so wzro pbn lshv,’ frs. ozv crox ‘.b pbn ilrp cebtnvo wsoz ozv
tnvvd ob-.rp?’

‘s fzbnl. lshv so kvep yncz,’ frs. rlscv, ‘jno s zrkvd’o jvvd sdksov.
pvox’

‘pbn’ll fvv yv ozvev,’ frs. ozv cro, rd. krdsfzv.x

rlscv wrf dbo yncz fneiesfv. ro ozsf, fzv wrf mvoosdm fb nfv. ob tnvve
ozsdmf zriivdsdmx wzslv fzv wrf lbbhsdm ro ozv ilrcv wzvev so zr. jvvd,
so fn..vdlp riivrev. rmrsdx

‘jp-ozv-jpv, wzro jvcryv bq ozv jrjp?’ frs. ozv crox ‘s’. dvrelp
qbemboovd ob rfhx’

‘so onedv. sdob r ism,’ rlscv tnsvolp frs., unfo rf sq so zr. cbyv jrch
sd r dronerl wrpx

‘s ozbnmzo so wbnl.,’ frs. ozv cro, rd. krdsfzv. rmrsdx

rlscv wrsov. r lsoolv, zrlq vgivcosdm ob fvv so rmrsd, jno so .s. dbo
riivre, rd. rqove r ysdnov be owb fzv wrlhv. bd sd ozv .sevcosbd sd
wzscz ozv yrecz zrev wrf frs. ob lskvx ‘s’kv fvvd zroovef jvqbev,’ fzv
frs. ob zvefvlq; ‘ozv yrecz zrev wsll jv yncz ozv ybfo sdovevfosdm, rd.
ivezrif rf ozsf sf yrp so wbd’o jv erksdm yr.--ro lvrfo dbo fb yr. rf
so wrf sd yreczx’ rf fzv frs. ozsf, fzv lbbhv. ni, rd. ozvev wrf ozv cro
rmrsd, fsoosdm bd r jerdcz bq r oevvx

‘.s. pbn frp ism, be qsm?’ frs. ozv crox

‘s frs. ism,’ evilsv. rlscv; ‘rd. s wsfz pbn wbnl.d’o hvvi riivresdm rd.
krdsfzsdm fb fn..vdlp: pbn yrhv bdv tnsov ms..px’

‘rll esmzo,’ frs. ozv cro; rd. ozsf osyv so krdsfzv. tnsov flbwlp,
jvmsddsdm wsoz ozv vd. bq ozv orsl, rd. vd.sdm wsoz ozv mesd, wzscz
evyrsdv. fbyv osyv rqove ozv evfo bq so zr. mbdvx

‘wvll! s’kv bqovd fvvd r cro wsozbno r mesd,’ ozbnmzo rlscv; ‘jno r mesd
wsozbno r cro! so’f ozv ybfo cnesbnf ozsdm s vkve frw sd yp lsqv!’

fzv zr. dbo mbdv yncz qreozve jvqbev fzv cryv sd fsmzo bq ozv zbnfv
bq ozv yrecz zrev: fzv ozbnmzo so ynfo jv ozv esmzo zbnfv, jvcrnfv ozv
czsydvpf wvev fzriv. lshv vref rd. ozv ebbq wrf ozroczv. wsoz qnex so
wrf fb lremv r zbnfv, ozro fzv .s. dbo lshv ob mb dvreve osll fzv zr.
dsjjlv. fbyv ybev bq ozv lvqozrd. jso bq ynfzebby, rd. ersfv. zvefvlq ob
rjbno owb qvvo zsmz: vkvd ozvd fzv wrlhv. ni obwre.f so erozve osys.lp,
frpsdm ob zvefvlq ‘fniibfv so fzbnl. jv erksdm yr. rqove rll! s rlybfo
wsfz s’. mbdv ob fvv ozv zroove sdfovr.!’




czriove kssx r yr. ovr-ireop

ozvev wrf r orjlv fvo bno nd.ve r oevv sd qebdo bq ozv zbnfv, rd. ozv
yrecz zrev rd. ozv zroove wvev zrksdm ovr ro so: r .beybnfv wrf fsoosdm
jvowvvd ozvy, qrfo rflvvi, rd. ozv bozve owb wvev nfsdm so rf r
cnfzsbd, evfosdm ozvse vljbwf bd so, rd. orlhsdm bkve sof zvr.x ‘kvep
ndcbyqbeorjlv qbe ozv .beybnfv,’ ozbnmzo rlscv; ‘bdlp, rf so’f rflvvi, s
fniibfv so .bvfd’o ysd.x’

ozv orjlv wrf r lremv bdv, jno ozv ozevv wvev rll cebw.v. obmvozve ro
bdv cbedve bq so: ‘db ebby! db ebby!’ ozvp cesv. bno wzvd ozvp frw rlscv
cbysdmx ‘ozvev’f ilvdop bq ebby!’ frs. rlscv sd.smdrdolp, rd. fzv fro
.bwd sd r lremv rey-czrse ro bdv vd. bq ozv orjlvx

‘zrkv fbyv wsdv,’ ozv yrecz zrev frs. sd rd vdcbnermsdm obdvx

rlscv lbbhv. rll ebnd. ozv orjlv, jno ozvev wrf dbozsdm bd so jno ovrx
‘s .bd’o fvv rdp wsdv,’ fzv evyrehv.x

‘ozvev sfd’o rdp,’ frs. ozv yrecz zrevx

‘ozvd so wrfd’o kvep csksl bq pbn ob bqqve so,’ frs. rlscv rdmeslpx

‘so wrfd’o kvep csksl bq pbn ob fso .bwd wsozbno jvsdm sdksov.,’ frs.
ozv yrecz zrevx

‘s .s.d’o hdbw so wrf pbne orjlv,’ frs. rlscv; ‘so’f lrs. qbe r mevro
yrdp ybev ozrd ozevvx’

‘pbne zrse wrdof cnoosdm,’ frs. ozv zroovex zv zr. jvvd lbbhsdm ro rlscv
qbe fbyv osyv wsoz mevro cnesbfsop, rd. ozsf wrf zsf qsefo fivvczx

‘pbn fzbnl. lvred dbo ob yrhv ivefbdrl evyrehf,’ rlscv frs. wsoz fbyv
fvkvesop; ‘so’f kvep en.vx’

ozv zroove bivdv. zsf vpvf kvep ws.v bd zvresdm ozsf; jno rll zv frs.
wrf, ‘wzp sf r erkvd lshv r wesosdm-.vfh?’

‘cbyv, wv fzrll zrkv fbyv qnd dbw!’ ozbnmzo rlscvx ‘s’y mlr. ozvp’kv
jvmnd rfhsdm es..lvfx--s jvlsvkv s crd mnvff ozro,’ fzv r..v. rlbn.x

‘.b pbn yvrd ozro pbn ozsdh pbn crd qsd. bno ozv rdfwve ob so?’ frs. ozv
yrecz zrevx

‘vgrcolp fb,’ frs. rlscvx

‘ozvd pbn fzbnl. frp wzro pbn yvrd,’ ozv yrecz zrev wvdo bdx

‘s .b,’ rlscv zrfoslp evilsv.; ‘ro lvrfo--ro lvrfo s yvrd wzro s
frp--ozro’f ozv fryv ozsdm, pbn hdbwx’

‘dbo ozv fryv ozsdm r jso!’ frs. ozv zroovex ‘pbn ysmzo unfo rf wvll frp
ozro “s fvv wzro s vro” sf ozv fryv ozsdm rf “s vro wzro s fvv”!’

‘pbn ysmzo unfo rf wvll frp,’ r..v. ozv yrecz zrev, ‘ozro “s lshv wzro s
mvo” sf ozv fryv ozsdm rf “s mvo wzro s lshv”!’

‘pbn ysmzo unfo rf wvll frp,’ r..v. ozv .beybnfv, wzb fvvyv. ob jv
orlhsdm sd zsf flvvi, ‘ozro “s jevrozv wzvd s flvvi” sf ozv fryv ozsdm
rf “s flvvi wzvd s jevrozv”!’

‘so sf ozv fryv ozsdm wsoz pbn,’ frs. ozv zroove, rd. zvev ozv
cbdkvefrosbd .ebiiv., rd. ozv ireop fro fslvdo qbe r ysdnov, wzslv rlscv
ozbnmzo bkve rll fzv cbnl. evyvyjve rjbno erkvdf rd. wesosdm-.vfhf,
wzscz wrfd’o ynczx

ozv zroove wrf ozv qsefo ob jevrh ozv fslvdcvx ‘wzro .rp bq ozv ybdoz
sf so?’ zv frs., onedsdm ob rlscv: zv zr. orhvd zsf wrocz bno bq zsf
ibchvo, rd. wrf lbbhsdm ro so ndvrfslp, fzrhsdm so vkvep dbw rd. ozvd,
rd. zbl.sdm so ob zsf vrex

rlscv cbdfs.vev. r lsoolv, rd. ozvd frs. ‘ozv qbneozx’

‘owb .rpf webdm!’ fsmzv. ozv zroovex ‘s obl. pbn jnoove wbnl.d’o fnso
ozv wbehf!’ zv r..v. lbbhsdm rdmeslp ro ozv yrecz zrevx

‘so wrf ozv jvfo jnoove,’ ozv yrecz zrev yvvhlp evilsv.x

‘pvf, jno fbyv cenyjf ynfo zrkv mbo sd rf wvll,’ ozv zroove menyjlv.:
‘pbn fzbnl.d’o zrkv ino so sd wsoz ozv jevr.-hdsqvx’

ozv yrecz zrev obbh ozv wrocz rd. lbbhv. ro so mlbbyslp: ozvd zv .siiv.
so sdob zsf cni bq ovr, rd. lbbhv. ro so rmrsd: jno zv cbnl. ozsdh bq
dbozsdm jvoove ob frp ozrd zsf qsefo evyreh, ‘so wrf ozv jvfo jnoove,
pbn hdbwx’

rlscv zr. jvvd lbbhsdm bkve zsf fzbnl.ve wsoz fbyv cnesbfsopx ‘wzro r
qnddp wrocz!’ fzv evyrehv.x ‘so ovllf ozv .rp bq ozv ybdoz, rd. .bvfd’o
ovll wzro b’clbch so sf!’

‘wzp fzbnl. so?’ ynoovev. ozv zroovex ‘.bvf pbne wrocz ovll pbn wzro
pvre so sf?’

‘bq cbnefv dbo,’ rlscv evilsv. kvep evr.slp: ‘jno ozro’f jvcrnfv so
forpf ozv fryv pvre qbe fncz r lbdm osyv obmvozvex’

‘wzscz sf unfo ozv crfv wsoz ysdv,’ frs. ozv zroovex

rlscv qvlo .evr.qnllp inaalv.x ozv zroove’f evyreh fvvyv. ob zrkv db
fbeo bq yvrdsdm sd so, rd. pvo so wrf cveorsdlp vdmlsfzx ‘s .bd’o tnsov
nd.veford. pbn,’ fzv frs., rf iblsovlp rf fzv cbnl.x

‘ozv .beybnfv sf rflvvi rmrsd,’ frs. ozv zroove, rd. zv ibnev. r lsoolv
zbo ovr nibd sof dbfvx

ozv .beybnfv fzbbh sof zvr. syirosvdolp, rd. frs., wsozbno bivdsdm sof
vpvf, ‘bq cbnefv, bq cbnefv; unfo wzro s wrf mbsdm ob evyreh ypfvlqx’

‘zrkv pbn mnvffv. ozv es..lv pvo?’ ozv zroove frs., onedsdm ob rlscv
rmrsdx

‘db, s mskv so ni,’ rlscv evilsv.: ‘wzro’f ozv rdfwve?’

‘s zrkvd’o ozv flsmzovfo s.vr,’ frs. ozv zroovex

‘dbe s,’ frs. ozv yrecz zrevx

rlscv fsmzv. wvreslpx ‘s ozsdh pbn ysmzo .b fbyvozsdm jvoove wsoz ozv
osyv,’ fzv frs., ‘ozrd wrfov so sd rfhsdm es..lvf ozro zrkv db rdfwvefx’

‘sq pbn hdvw osyv rf wvll rf s .b,’ frs. ozv zroove, ‘pbn wbnl.d’o orlh
rjbno wrfosdm sox so’f zsyx’

‘s .bd’o hdbw wzro pbn yvrd,’ frs. rlscvx

‘bq cbnefv pbn .bd’o!’ ozv zroove frs., obffsdm zsf zvr. cbdovyionbnflpx
‘s .rev frp pbn dvkve vkvd fibhv ob osyv!’

‘ivezrif dbo,’ rlscv crnosbnflp evilsv.: ‘jno s hdbw s zrkv ob jvro osyv
wzvd s lvred ynfscx’

‘rz! ozro rccbndof qbe so,’ frs. ozv zroovex ‘zv wbd’o ford. jvrosdmx
dbw, sq pbn bdlp hvio bd mbb. oveyf wsoz zsy, zv’. .b rlybfo rdpozsdm
pbn lshv. wsoz ozv clbchx qbe sdfordcv, fniibfv so wvev dsdv b’clbch sd
ozv ybedsdm, unfo osyv ob jvmsd lvffbdf: pbn’. bdlp zrkv ob wzsfive r
zsdo ob osyv, rd. ebnd. mbvf ozv clbch sd r owsdhlsdm! zrlq-irfo bdv,
osyv qbe .sddve!’

[‘s bdlp wsfz so wrf,’ ozv yrecz zrev frs. ob sofvlq sd r wzsfivex)

‘ozro wbnl. jv merd., cveorsdlp,’ frs. rlscv ozbnmzoqnllp: ‘jno ozvd--s
fzbnl.d’o jv zndmep qbe so, pbn hdbwx’

‘dbo ro qsefo, ivezrif,’ frs. ozv zroove: ‘jno pbn cbnl. hvvi so ob
zrlq-irfo bdv rf lbdm rf pbn lshv.x’

‘sf ozro ozv wrp pbn yrdrmv?’ rlscv rfhv.x

ozv zroove fzbbh zsf zvr. ybnedqnllpx ‘dbo s!’ zv evilsv.x ‘wv
tnreevllv. lrfo yrecz--unfo jvqbev zv wvdo yr., pbn hdbw--’ (ibsdosdm
wsoz zsf ovr fibbd ro ozv yrecz zrev,) ‘--so wrf ro ozv mevro cbdcveo
mskvd jp ozv tnvvd bq zvreof, rd. s zr. ob fsdm

     “owsdhlv, owsdhlv, lsoolv jro!
     zbw s wbd.ve wzro pbn’ev ro!”

pbn hdbw ozv fbdm, ivezrif?’

‘s’kv zvre. fbyvozsdm lshv so,’ frs. rlscvx

‘so mbvf bd, pbn hdbw,’ ozv zroove cbdosdnv., ‘sd ozsf wrp:--

     “ni rjbkv ozv wbel. pbn qlp,
     lshv r ovr-oerp sd ozv fhpx
         owsdhlv, owsdhlv--“’

zvev ozv .beybnfv fzbbh sofvlq, rd. jvmrd fsdmsdm sd sof flvvi ‘owsdhlv,
owsdhlv, owsdhlv, owsdhlv--’ rd. wvdo bd fb lbdm ozro ozvp zr. ob isdcz
so ob yrhv so fobix

‘wvll, s’. zre.lp qsdsfzv. ozv qsefo kvefv,’ frs. ozv zroove, ‘wzvd ozv
tnvvd unyiv. ni rd. jrwlv. bno, “zv’f yne.vesdm ozv osyv! bqq wsoz zsf
zvr.!”’

‘zbw .evr.qnllp frkrmv!’ vgclrsyv. rlscvx

‘rd. vkve fsdcv ozro,’ ozv zroove wvdo bd sd r ybnedqnl obdv, ‘zv wbd’o
.b r ozsdm s rfh! so’f rlwrpf fsg b’clbch dbwx’

r jesmzo s.vr cryv sdob rlscv’f zvr.x ‘sf ozro ozv evrfbd fb yrdp
ovr-ozsdmf rev ino bno zvev?’ fzv rfhv.x

‘pvf, ozro’f so,’ frs. ozv zroove wsoz r fsmz: ‘so’f rlwrpf ovr-osyv,
rd. wv’kv db osyv ob wrfz ozv ozsdmf jvowvvd wzslvfx’

‘ozvd pbn hvvi ybksdm ebnd., s fniibfv?’ frs. rlscvx

‘vgrcolp fb,’ frs. ozv zroove: ‘rf ozv ozsdmf mvo nfv. nix’

‘jno wzro zriivdf wzvd pbn cbyv ob ozv jvmsddsdm rmrsd?’ rlscv kvdonev.
ob rfhx

‘fniibfv wv czrdmv ozv fnjuvco,’ ozv yrecz zrev sdoveeniov., prwdsdmx
‘s’y mvoosdm osev. bq ozsfx s kbov ozv pbndm lr.p ovllf nf r fobepx’

‘s’y rqers. s .bd’o hdbw bdv,’ frs. rlscv, erozve rlreyv. ro ozv
iebibfrlx

‘ozvd ozv .beybnfv fzrll!’ ozvp jboz cesv.x ‘wrhv ni, .beybnfv!’ rd.
ozvp isdczv. so bd jboz fs.vf ro bdcvx

ozv .beybnfv flbwlp bivdv. zsf vpvfx ‘s wrfd’o rflvvi,’ zv frs. sd r
zbrefv, qvvjlv kbscv: ‘s zvre. vkvep wbe. pbn qvllbwf wvev frpsdmx’

‘ovll nf r fobep!’ frs. ozv yrecz zrevx

‘pvf, ilvrfv .b!’ ilvr.v. rlscvx

‘rd. jv tnsch rjbno so,’ r..v. ozv zroove, ‘be pbn’ll jv rflvvi rmrsd
jvqbev so’f .bdvx’

‘bdcv nibd r osyv ozvev wvev ozevv lsoolv fsfovef,’ ozv .beybnfv jvmrd
sd r mevro zneep; ‘rd. ozvse dryvf wvev vlfsv, lrcsv, rd. osllsv; rd.
ozvp lskv. ro ozv jbooby bq r wvll--’

‘wzro .s. ozvp lskv bd?’ frs. rlscv, wzb rlwrpf obbh r mevro sdovevfo sd
tnvfosbdf bq vrosdm rd. .esdhsdmx

‘ozvp lskv. bd oevrclv,’ frs. ozv .beybnfv, rqove ozsdhsdm r ysdnov be
owbx

‘ozvp cbnl.d’o zrkv .bdv ozro, pbn hdbw,’ rlscv mvdolp evyrehv.; ‘ozvp’.
zrkv jvvd sllx’

‘fb ozvp wvev,’ frs. ozv .beybnfv; ‘kvep sllx’

rlscv oesv. ob qrdcp ob zvefvlq wzro fncz rd vgoerbe.sdrep wrpf bq
lsksdm wbnl. jv lshv, jno so inaalv. zve obb yncz, fb fzv wvdo bd: ‘jno
wzp .s. ozvp lskv ro ozv jbooby bq r wvll?’

‘orhv fbyv ybev ovr,’ ozv yrecz zrev frs. ob rlscv, kvep vredvfolpx

‘s’kv zr. dbozsdm pvo,’ rlscv evilsv. sd rd bqqvd.v. obdv, ‘fb s crd’o
orhv ybevx’

‘pbn yvrd pbn crd’o orhv lvff,’ frs. ozv zroove: ‘so’f kvep vrfp ob orhv
ybev ozrd dbozsdmx’

‘dbjb.p rfhv. pbne bisdsbd,’ frs. rlscvx

‘wzb’f yrhsdm ivefbdrl evyrehf dbw?’ ozv zroove rfhv. oesnyizrdolpx

rlscv .s. dbo tnsov hdbw wzro ob frp ob ozsf: fb fzv zvliv. zvefvlq
ob fbyv ovr rd. jevr.-rd.-jnoove, rd. ozvd onedv. ob ozv .beybnfv, rd.
evivrov. zve tnvfosbdx ‘wzp .s. ozvp lskv ro ozv jbooby bq r wvll?’

ozv .beybnfv rmrsd obbh r ysdnov be owb ob ozsdh rjbno so, rd. ozvd
frs., ‘so wrf r oevrclv-wvllx’

‘ozvev’f db fncz ozsdm!’ rlscv wrf jvmsddsdm kvep rdmeslp, jno ozv
zroove rd. ozv yrecz zrev wvdo ‘fz! fz!’ rd. ozv .beybnfv fnlhslp
evyrehv., ‘sq pbn crd’o jv csksl, pbn’. jvoove qsdsfz ozv fobep qbe
pbnefvlqx’

‘db, ilvrfv mb bd!’ rlscv frs. kvep znyjlp; ‘s wbd’o sdoveenio rmrsdx s
.rev frp ozvev yrp jv bdvx’

‘bdv, sd.vv.!’ frs. ozv .beybnfv sd.smdrdolpx zbwvkve, zv cbdfvdov. ob
mb bdx ‘rd. fb ozvfv ozevv lsoolv fsfovef--ozvp wvev lvredsdm ob .erw,
pbn hdbw--’

‘wzro .s. ozvp .erw?’ frs. rlscv, tnsov qbemvoosdm zve iebysfvx

‘oevrclv,’ frs. ozv .beybnfv, wsozbno cbdfs.vesdm ro rll ozsf osyvx

‘s wrdo r clvrd cni,’ sdoveeniov. ozv zroove: ‘lvo’f rll ybkv bdv ilrcv
bdx’

zv ybkv. bd rf zv fibhv, rd. ozv .beybnfv qbllbwv. zsy: ozv yrecz zrev
ybkv. sdob ozv .beybnfv’f ilrcv, rd. rlscv erozve ndwsllsdmlp obbh
ozv ilrcv bq ozv yrecz zrevx ozv zroove wrf ozv bdlp bdv wzb mbo rdp
r.krdormv qeby ozv czrdmv: rd. rlscv wrf r mbb. .vrl wbefv bqq ozrd
jvqbev, rf ozv yrecz zrev zr. unfo nifvo ozv yslh-unm sdob zsf ilrovx

rlscv .s. dbo wsfz ob bqqvd. ozv .beybnfv rmrsd, fb fzv jvmrd kvep
crnosbnflp: ‘jno s .bd’o nd.veford.x wzvev .s. ozvp .erw ozv oevrclv
qeby?’

‘pbn crd .erw wrove bno bq r wrove-wvll,’ frs. ozv zroove; ‘fb s fzbnl.
ozsdh pbn cbnl. .erw oevrclv bno bq r oevrclv-wvll--vz, fonis.?’

‘jno ozvp wvev sd ozv wvll,’ rlscv frs. ob ozv .beybnfv, dbo czbbfsdm ob
dboscv ozsf lrfo evyrehx

‘bq cbnefv ozvp wvev’, frs. ozv .beybnfv; ‘--wvll sdx’

ozsf rdfwve fb cbdqnfv. ibbe rlscv, ozro fzv lvo ozv .beybnfv mb bd qbe
fbyv osyv wsozbno sdoveeniosdm sox

‘ozvp wvev lvredsdm ob .erw,’ ozv .beybnfv wvdo bd, prwdsdm rd. enjjsdm
sof vpvf, qbe so wrf mvoosdm kvep flvvip; ‘rd. ozvp .evw rll yrddve bq
ozsdmf--vkvepozsdm ozro jvmsdf wsoz rd y--’

‘wzp wsoz rd y?’ frs. rlscvx

‘wzp dbo?’ frs. ozv yrecz zrevx

rlscv wrf fslvdox

ozv .beybnfv zr. clbfv. sof vpvf jp ozsf osyv, rd. wrf mbsdm bqq sdob
r .bav; jno, bd jvsdm isdczv. jp ozv zroove, so wbhv ni rmrsd wsoz
r lsoolv fzesvh, rd. wvdo bd: ‘--ozro jvmsdf wsoz rd y, fncz rf
ybnfv-oerif, rd. ozv ybbd, rd. yvybep, rd. ynczdvff--pbn hdbw pbn frp
ozsdmf rev “yncz bq r ynczdvff”--.s. pbn vkve fvv fncz r ozsdm rf r
.erwsdm bq r ynczdvff?’

‘evrllp, dbw pbn rfh yv,’ frs. rlscv, kvep yncz cbdqnfv., ‘s .bd’o
ozsdh--’

‘ozvd pbn fzbnl.d’o orlh,’ frs. ozv zroovex

ozsf isvcv bq en.vdvff wrf ybev ozrd rlscv cbnl. jvre: fzv mbo ni sd
mevro .sfmnfo, rd. wrlhv. bqq; ozv .beybnfv qvll rflvvi sdfordolp, rd.
dvsozve bq ozv bozvef obbh ozv lvrfo dboscv bq zve mbsdm, ozbnmz fzv
lbbhv. jrch bdcv be owscv, zrlq zbisdm ozro ozvp wbnl. crll rqove zve:
ozv lrfo osyv fzv frw ozvy, ozvp wvev oepsdm ob ino ozv .beybnfv sdob
ozv ovribox

‘ro rdp erov s’ll dvkve mb ozvev rmrsd!’ frs. rlscv rf fzv ischv. zve
wrp ozebnmz ozv wbb.x ‘so’f ozv fonis.vfo ovr-ireop s vkve wrf ro sd rll
yp lsqv!’

unfo rf fzv frs. ozsf, fzv dboscv. ozro bdv bq ozv oevvf zr. r .bbe
lvr.sdm esmzo sdob sox ‘ozro’f kvep cnesbnf!’ fzv ozbnmzox ‘jno
vkvepozsdm’f cnesbnf ob.rpx s ozsdh s yrp rf wvll mb sd ro bdcvx’ rd. sd
fzv wvdox

bdcv ybev fzv qbnd. zvefvlq sd ozv lbdm zrll, rd. clbfv ob ozv lsoolv
mlrff orjlvx ‘dbw, s’ll yrdrmv jvoove ozsf osyv,’ fzv frs. ob zvefvlq,
rd. jvmrd jp orhsdm ozv lsoolv mbl.vd hvp, rd. ndlbchsdm ozv .bbe ozro
lv. sdob ozv mre.vdx ozvd fzv wvdo ob wbeh dsjjlsdm ro ozv ynfzebby (fzv
zr. hvio r isvcv bq so sd zve ibchvo) osll fzv wrf rjbno r qbbo zsmz:
ozvd fzv wrlhv. .bwd ozv lsoolv irffrmv: rd. ozvd--fzv qbnd. zvefvlq ro
lrfo sd ozv jvrnosqnl mre.vd, rybdm ozv jesmzo qlbwve-jv.f rd. ozv cbbl
qbndorsdfx




czriove ksssx ozv tnvvd’f cebtnvo-mebnd.

r lremv ebfv-oevv fobb. dvre ozv vdoerdcv bq ozv mre.vd: ozv ebfvf
mebwsdm bd so wvev wzsov, jno ozvev wvev ozevv mre.vdvef ro so, jnfslp
irsdosdm ozvy ev.x rlscv ozbnmzo ozsf r kvep cnesbnf ozsdm, rd. fzv wvdo
dvreve ob wrocz ozvy, rd. unfo rf fzv cryv ni ob ozvy fzv zvre. bdv bq
ozvy frp, ‘lbbh bno dbw, qskv! .bd’o mb filrfzsdm irsdo bkve yv lshv
ozro!’

‘s cbnl.d’o zvli so,’ frs. qskv, sd r fnlhp obdv; ‘fvkvd ubmmv. yp
vljbwx’

bd wzscz fvkvd lbbhv. ni rd. frs., ‘ozro’f esmzo, qskv! rlwrpf lrp ozv
jlryv bd bozvef!’

‘pbn’. jvoove dbo orlh!’ frs. qskvx ‘s zvre. ozv tnvvd frp bdlp
pvfove.rp pbn .vfvekv. ob jv jvzvr.v.!’

‘wzro qbe?’ frs. ozv bdv wzb zr. fibhvd qsefox

‘ozro’f dbdv bq pbne jnfsdvff, owb!’ frs. fvkvdx

‘pvf, so sf zsf jnfsdvff!’ frs. qskv, ‘rd. s’ll ovll zsy--so wrf qbe
jesdmsdm ozv cbbh onlsi-ebbof sdfovr. bq bdsbdfx’

fvkvd qlndm .bwd zsf jenfz, rd. zr. unfo jvmnd ‘wvll, bq rll ozv ndunfo
ozsdmf--’ wzvd zsf vpv czrdcv. ob qrll nibd rlscv, rf fzv fobb. wroczsdm
ozvy, rd. zv czvchv. zsyfvlq fn..vdlp: ozv bozvef lbbhv. ebnd. rlfb, rd.
rll bq ozvy jbwv. lbwx

‘wbnl. pbn ovll yv,’ frs. rlscv, r lsoolv osys.lp, ‘wzp pbn rev irsdosdm
ozbfv ebfvf?’

qskv rd. fvkvd frs. dbozsdm, jno lbbhv. ro owbx owb jvmrd sd r lbw
kbscv, ‘wzp ozv qrco sf, pbn fvv, ysff, ozsf zvev bnmzo ob zrkv jvvd r
ev. ebfv-oevv, rd. wv ino r wzsov bdv sd jp ysforhv; rd. sq ozv tnvvd
wrf ob qsd. so bno, wv fzbnl. rll zrkv bne zvr.f cno bqq, pbn hdbwx
fb pbn fvv, ysff, wv’ev .bsdm bne jvfo, rqbev fzv cbyvf, ob--’ ro ozsf
ybyvdo qskv, wzb zr. jvvd rdgsbnflp lbbhsdm rcebff ozv mre.vd, crllv.
bno ‘ozv tnvvd! ozv tnvvd!’ rd. ozv ozevv mre.vdvef sdfordolp ozevw
ozvyfvlkvf qlro nibd ozvse qrcvfx ozvev wrf r fbnd. bq yrdp qbbofovif,
rd. rlscv lbbhv. ebnd., vrmve ob fvv ozv tnvvdx

qsefo cryv ovd fbl.svef creepsdm clnjf; ozvfv wvev rll fzriv. lshv
ozv ozevv mre.vdvef, bjlbdm rd. qlro, wsoz ozvse zrd.f rd. qvvo ro ozv
cbedvef: dvgo ozv ovd cbneosvef; ozvfv wvev bedryvdov. rll bkve wsoz
.srybd.f, rd. wrlhv. owb rd. owb, rf ozv fbl.svef .s.x rqove ozvfv cryv
ozv ebprl czsl.evd; ozvev wvev ovd bq ozvy, rd. ozv lsoolv .vref cryv
unyisdm yveeslp rlbdm zrd. sd zrd., sd cbnilvf: ozvp wvev rll bedryvdov.
wsoz zvreofx dvgo cryv ozv mnvfof, ybfolp hsdmf rd. tnvvdf, rd. rybdm
ozvy rlscv evcbmdsfv. ozv wzsov erjjso: so wrf orlhsdm sd r zneesv.
dvekbnf yrddve, fyslsdm ro vkvepozsdm ozro wrf frs., rd. wvdo jp wsozbno
dboscsdm zvex ozvd qbllbwv. ozv hdrkv bq zvreof, creepsdm ozv hsdm’f
cebwd bd r cesyfbd kvlkvo cnfzsbd; rd., lrfo bq rll ozsf merd.
iebcvffsbd, cryv ozv hsdm rd. tnvvd bq zvreofx

rlscv wrf erozve .bnjoqnl wzvozve fzv bnmzo dbo ob lsv .bwd bd zve qrcv
lshv ozv ozevv mre.vdvef, jno fzv cbnl. dbo evyvyjve vkve zrksdm zvre.
bq fncz r enlv ro iebcvffsbdf; ‘rd. jvfs.vf, wzro wbnl. jv ozv nfv bq
r iebcvffsbd,’ ozbnmzo fzv, ‘sq ivbilv zr. rll ob lsv .bwd nibd ozvse
qrcvf, fb ozro ozvp cbnl.d’o fvv so?’ fb fzv fobb. fosll wzvev fzv wrf,
rd. wrsov.x

wzvd ozv iebcvffsbd cryv biibfsov ob rlscv, ozvp rll fobiiv. rd. lbbhv.
ro zve, rd. ozv tnvvd frs. fvkvevlp ‘wzb sf ozsf?’ fzv frs. so ob ozv
hdrkv bq zvreof, wzb bdlp jbwv. rd. fyslv. sd evilpx

‘s.sbo!’ frs. ozv tnvvd, obffsdm zve zvr. syirosvdolp; rd., onedsdm ob
rlscv, fzv wvdo bd, ‘wzro’f pbne dryv, czsl.?’

‘yp dryv sf rlscv, fb ilvrfv pbne yruvfop,’ frs. rlscv kvep iblsovlp;
jno fzv r..v., ob zvefvlq, ‘wzp, ozvp’ev bdlp r irch bq cre.f, rqove
rllx s dvv.d’o jv rqers. bq ozvy!’

‘rd. wzb rev ozvfv?’ frs. ozv tnvvd, ibsdosdm ob ozv ozevv mre.vdvef wzb
wvev lpsdm ebnd. ozv ebfvoevv; qbe, pbn fvv, rf ozvp wvev lpsdm bd ozvse
qrcvf, rd. ozv irooved bd ozvse jrchf wrf ozv fryv rf ozv evfo bq ozv
irch, fzv cbnl. dbo ovll wzvozve ozvp wvev mre.vdvef, be fbl.svef, be
cbneosvef, be ozevv bq zve bwd czsl.evdx

‘zbw fzbnl. s hdbw?’ frs. rlscv, fneiesfv. ro zve bwd cbnermvx ‘so’f db
jnfsdvff bq ysdvx’

ozv tnvvd onedv. cesyfbd wsoz qnep, rd., rqove mlresdm ro zve qbe r
ybyvdo lshv r wsl. jvrfo, fcevryv. ‘bqq wsoz zve zvr.! bqq--’

‘dbdfvdfv!’ frs. rlscv, kvep lbn.lp rd. .vcs.v.lp, rd. ozv tnvvd wrf
fslvdox

ozv hsdm lrs. zsf zrd. nibd zve rey, rd. osys.lp frs. ‘cbdfs.ve, yp
.vre: fzv sf bdlp r czsl.!’

ozv tnvvd onedv. rdmeslp rwrp qeby zsy, rd. frs. ob ozv hdrkv ‘oned ozvy
bkve!’

ozv hdrkv .s. fb, kvep crevqnllp, wsoz bdv qbbox

‘mvo ni!’ frs. ozv tnvvd, sd r fzesll, lbn. kbscv, rd. ozv ozevv
mre.vdvef sdfordolp unyiv. ni, rd. jvmrd jbwsdm ob ozv hsdm, ozv tnvvd,
ozv ebprl czsl.evd, rd. vkvepjb.p vlfvx

‘lvrkv bqq ozro!’ fcevryv. ozv tnvvdx ‘pbn yrhv yv ms..px’ rd. ozvd,
onedsdm ob ozv ebfv-oevv, fzv wvdo bd, ‘wzro zrkv pbn jvvd .bsdm zvev?’

‘yrp so ilvrfv pbne yruvfop,’ frs. owb, sd r kvep znyjlv obdv, mbsdm
.bwd bd bdv hdvv rf zv fibhv, ‘wv wvev oepsdm--’

‘s fvv!’ frs. ozv tnvvd, wzb zr. yvrdwzslv jvvd vgrysdsdm ozv ebfvfx
‘bqq wsoz ozvse zvr.f!’ rd. ozv iebcvffsbd ybkv. bd, ozevv bq ozv
fbl.svef evyrsdsdm jvzsd. ob vgvcnov ozv ndqbeondrov mre.vdvef, wzb erd
ob rlscv qbe iebovcosbdx

‘pbn fzrd’o jv jvzvr.v.!’ frs. rlscv, rd. fzv ino ozvy sdob r lremv
qlbwve-ibo ozro fobb. dvrex ozv ozevv fbl.svef wrd.vev. rjbno qbe r
ysdnov be owb, lbbhsdm qbe ozvy, rd. ozvd tnsvolp yreczv. bqq rqove ozv
bozvefx

‘rev ozvse zvr.f bqq?’ fzbnov. ozv tnvvdx

‘ozvse zvr.f rev mbdv, sq so ilvrfv pbne yruvfop!’ ozv fbl.svef fzbnov.
sd evilpx

‘ozro’f esmzo!’ fzbnov. ozv tnvvdx ‘crd pbn ilrp cebtnvo?’

ozv fbl.svef wvev fslvdo, rd. lbbhv. ro rlscv, rf ozv tnvfosbd wrf
vks.vdolp yvrdo qbe zvex

‘pvf!’ fzbnov. rlscvx

‘cbyv bd, ozvd!’ ebrev. ozv tnvvd, rd. rlscv ubsdv. ozv iebcvffsbd,
wbd.vesdm kvep yncz wzro wbnl. zriivd dvgox

‘so’f--so’f r kvep qsdv .rp!’ frs. r osys. kbscv ro zve fs.vx fzv wrf
wrlhsdm jp ozv wzsov erjjso, wzb wrf ivvisdm rdgsbnflp sdob zve qrcvx

‘kvep,’ frs. rlscv: ‘--wzvev’f ozv .nczvff?’

‘znfz! znfz!’ frs. ozv erjjso sd r lbw, zneesv. obdvx zv lbbhv.
rdgsbnflp bkve zsf fzbnl.ve rf zv fibhv, rd. ozvd ersfv. zsyfvlq nibd
osiobv, ino zsf ybnoz clbfv ob zve vre, rd. wzsfivev. ‘fzv’f nd.ve
fvdovdcv bq vgvcnosbdx’

‘wzro qbe?’ frs. rlscvx

‘.s. pbn frp “wzro r isop!”?’ ozv erjjso rfhv.x

‘db, s .s.d’o,’ frs. rlscv: ‘s .bd’o ozsdh so’f ro rll r isopx s frs.
“wzro qbe?”’

‘fzv jbgv. ozv tnvvd’f vref--’ ozv erjjso jvmrdx rlscv mrkv r lsoolv
fcevry bq lrnmzovex ‘bz, znfz!’ ozv erjjso wzsfivev. sd r qesmzovdv.
obdvx ‘ozv tnvvd wsll zvre pbn! pbn fvv, fzv cryv erozve lrov, rd. ozv
tnvvd frs.--’

‘mvo ob pbne ilrcvf!’ fzbnov. ozv tnvvd sd r kbscv bq oznd.ve, rd.
ivbilv jvmrd enddsdm rjbno sd rll .sevcosbdf, onyjlsdm ni rmrsdfo vrcz
bozve; zbwvkve, ozvp mbo fvoolv. .bwd sd r ysdnov be owb, rd. ozv mryv
jvmrdx rlscv ozbnmzo fzv zr. dvkve fvvd fncz r cnesbnf cebtnvo-mebnd. sd
zve lsqv; so wrf rll es.mvf rd. qneebwf; ozv jrllf wvev lskv zv.mvzbmf,
ozv yrllvof lskv qlrysdmbvf, rd. ozv fbl.svef zr. ob .bnjlv ozvyfvlkvf
ni rd. ob ford. bd ozvse zrd.f rd. qvvo, ob yrhv ozv reczvfx

ozv czsvq .sqqscnlop rlscv qbnd. ro qsefo wrf sd yrdrmsdm zve qlrysdmb:
fzv fnccvv.v. sd mvoosdm sof jb.p onchv. rwrp, cbyqbeorjlp vdbnmz, nd.ve
zve rey, wsoz sof lvmf zrdmsdm .bwd, jno mvdverllp, unfo rf fzv zr. mbo
sof dvch dscvlp foersmzovdv. bno, rd. wrf mbsdm ob mskv ozv zv.mvzbm r
jlbw wsoz sof zvr., so wbnl. owsfo sofvlq ebnd. rd. lbbh ni sd zve qrcv,
wsoz fncz r inaalv. vgievffsbd ozro fzv cbnl. dbo zvli jnefosdm bno
lrnmzsdm: rd. wzvd fzv zr. mbo sof zvr. .bwd, rd. wrf mbsdm ob jvmsd
rmrsd, so wrf kvep iebkbhsdm ob qsd. ozro ozv zv.mvzbm zr. ndebllv.
sofvlq, rd. wrf sd ozv rco bq cerwlsdm rwrp: jvfs.vf rll ozsf, ozvev wrf
mvdverllp r es.mv be qneebw sd ozv wrp wzvevkve fzv wrdov. ob fvd. ozv
zv.mvzbm ob, rd., rf ozv .bnjlv.-ni fbl.svef wvev rlwrpf mvoosdm ni
rd. wrlhsdm bqq ob bozve ireof bq ozv mebnd., rlscv fbbd cryv ob ozv
cbdclnfsbd ozro so wrf r kvep .sqqscnlo mryv sd.vv.x

ozv ilrpvef rll ilrpv. ro bdcv wsozbno wrsosdm qbe onedf, tnreevllsdm
rll ozv wzslv, rd. qsmzosdm qbe ozv zv.mvzbmf; rd. sd r kvep fzbeo
osyv ozv tnvvd wrf sd r qnesbnf irffsbd, rd. wvdo foryisdm rjbno, rd.
fzbnosdm ‘bqq wsoz zsf zvr.!’ be ‘bqq wsoz zve zvr.!’ rjbno bdcv sd r
ysdnovx

rlscv jvmrd ob qvvl kvep ndvrfp: ob jv fnev, fzv zr. dbo rf pvo zr. rdp
.sfinov wsoz ozv tnvvd, jno fzv hdvw ozro so ysmzo zriivd rdp ysdnov,
‘rd. ozvd,’ ozbnmzo fzv, ‘wzro wbnl. jvcbyv bq yv? ozvp’ev .evr.qnllp
qbd. bq jvzvr.sdm ivbilv zvev; ozv mevro wbd.ve sf, ozro ozvev’f rdp bdv
lvqo rlskv!’

fzv wrf lbbhsdm rjbno qbe fbyv wrp bq vfcriv, rd. wbd.vesdm wzvozve fzv
cbnl. mvo rwrp wsozbno jvsdm fvvd, wzvd fzv dboscv. r cnesbnf riivrerdcv
sd ozv rse: so inaalv. zve kvep yncz ro qsefo, jno, rqove wroczsdm so
r ysdnov be owb, fzv yr.v so bno ob jv r mesd, rd. fzv frs. ob zvefvlq
‘so’f ozv czvfzsev cro: dbw s fzrll zrkv fbyvjb.p ob orlh obx’

‘zbw rev pbn mvoosdm bd?’ frs. ozv cro, rf fbbd rf ozvev wrf ybnoz
vdbnmz qbe so ob fivrh wsozx

rlscv wrsov. osll ozv vpvf riivrev., rd. ozvd db..v.x ‘so’f db nfv
fivrhsdm ob so,’ fzv ozbnmzo, ‘osll sof vref zrkv cbyv, be ro lvrfo bdv
bq ozvyx’ sd rdbozve ysdnov ozv wzblv zvr. riivrev., rd. ozvd rlscv ino
.bwd zve qlrysdmb, rd. jvmrd rd rccbndo bq ozv mryv, qvvlsdm kvep mlr.
fzv zr. fbyvbdv ob lsfovd ob zvex ozv cro fvvyv. ob ozsdh ozro ozvev wrf
vdbnmz bq so dbw sd fsmzo, rd. db ybev bq so riivrev.x

‘s .bd’o ozsdh ozvp ilrp ro rll qrselp,’ rlscv jvmrd, sd erozve r
cbyilrsdsdm obdv, ‘rd. ozvp rll tnreevl fb .evr.qnllp bdv crd’o zvre
bdvfvlq fivrh--rd. ozvp .bd’o fvvy ob zrkv rdp enlvf sd ireoscnlre;
ro lvrfo, sq ozvev rev, dbjb.p roovd.f ob ozvy--rd. pbn’kv db s.vr zbw
cbdqnfsdm so sf rll ozv ozsdmf jvsdm rlskv; qbe sdfordcv, ozvev’f ozv
recz s’kv mbo ob mb ozebnmz dvgo wrlhsdm rjbno ro ozv bozve vd. bq ozv
mebnd.--rd. s fzbnl. zrkv cebtnvov. ozv tnvvd’f zv.mvzbm unfo dbw, bdlp
so erd rwrp wzvd so frw ysdv cbysdm!’

‘zbw .b pbn lshv ozv tnvvd?’ frs. ozv cro sd r lbw kbscvx

‘dbo ro rll,’ frs. rlscv: ‘fzv’f fb vgoevyvlp--’ unfo ozvd fzv dboscv.
ozro ozv tnvvd wrf clbfv jvzsd. zve, lsfovdsdm: fb fzv wvdo bd,
‘--lshvlp ob wsd, ozro so’f zre.lp wbeoz wzslv qsdsfzsdm ozv mryvx’

ozv tnvvd fyslv. rd. irffv. bdx

‘wzb rev pbn orlhsdm ob?’ frs. ozv hsdm, mbsdm ni ob rlscv, rd. lbbhsdm
ro ozv cro’f zvr. wsoz mevro cnesbfsopx

‘so’f r qesvd. bq ysdv--r czvfzsev cro,’ frs. rlscv: ‘rllbw yv ob
sdoeb.ncv sox’

‘s .bd’o lshv ozv lbbh bq so ro rll,’ frs. ozv hsdm: ‘zbwvkve, so yrp
hsff yp zrd. sq so lshvfx’

‘s’. erozve dbo,’ ozv cro evyrehv.x

‘.bd’o jv syiveosdvdo,’ frs. ozv hsdm, ‘rd. .bd’o lbbh ro yv lshv ozro!’
zv mbo jvzsd. rlscv rf zv fibhvx

‘r cro yrp lbbh ro r hsdm,’ frs. rlscvx ‘s’kv evr. ozro sd fbyv jbbh,
jno s .bd’o evyvyjve wzvevx’

‘wvll, so ynfo jv evybkv.,’ frs. ozv hsdm kvep .vcs.v.lp, rd. zv crllv.
ozv tnvvd, wzb wrf irffsdm ro ozv ybyvdo, ‘yp .vre! s wsfz pbn wbnl.
zrkv ozsf cro evybkv.!’

ozv tnvvd zr. bdlp bdv wrp bq fvoolsdm rll .sqqscnlosvf, mevro be fyrllx
‘bqq wsoz zsf zvr.!’ fzv frs., wsozbno vkvd lbbhsdm ebnd.x

‘s’ll qvocz ozv vgvcnosbdve ypfvlq,’ frs. ozv hsdm vrmvelp, rd. zv
zneesv. bqqx

rlscv ozbnmzo fzv ysmzo rf wvll mb jrch, rd. fvv zbw ozv mryv wrf mbsdm
bd, rf fzv zvre. ozv tnvvd’f kbscv sd ozv .sfordcv, fcevrysdm wsoz
irffsbdx fzv zr. rlevr.p zvre. zve fvdovdcv ozevv bq ozv ilrpvef ob jv
vgvcnov. qbe zrksdm ysffv. ozvse onedf, rd. fzv .s. dbo lshv ozv lbbh
bq ozsdmf ro rll, rf ozv mryv wrf sd fncz cbdqnfsbd ozro fzv dvkve hdvw
wzvozve so wrf zve oned be dbox fb fzv wvdo sd fvrecz bq zve zv.mvzbmx

ozv zv.mvzbm wrf vdmrmv. sd r qsmzo wsoz rdbozve zv.mvzbm, wzscz fvvyv.
ob rlscv rd vgcvllvdo biibeondsop qbe cebtnvosdm bdv bq ozvy wsoz ozv
bozve: ozv bdlp .sqqscnlop wrf, ozro zve qlrysdmb wrf mbdv rcebff ob ozv
bozve fs.v bq ozv mre.vd, wzvev rlscv cbnl. fvv so oepsdm sd r zvlilvff
fbeo bq wrp ob qlp ni sdob r oevvx

jp ozv osyv fzv zr. crnmzo ozv qlrysdmb rd. jebnmzo so jrch, ozv qsmzo
wrf bkve, rd. jboz ozv zv.mvzbmf wvev bno bq fsmzo: ‘jno so .bvfd’o
yroove yncz,’ ozbnmzo rlscv, ‘rf rll ozv reczvf rev mbdv qeby ozsf fs.v
bq ozv mebnd.x’ fb fzv onchv. so rwrp nd.ve zve rey, ozro so ysmzo dbo
vfcriv rmrsd, rd. wvdo jrch qbe r lsoolv ybev cbdkvefrosbd wsoz zve
qesvd.x

wzvd fzv mbo jrch ob ozv czvfzsev cro, fzv wrf fneiesfv. ob qsd. tnsov r
lremv cebw. cbllvcov. ebnd. so: ozvev wrf r .sfinov mbsdm bd jvowvvd
ozv vgvcnosbdve, ozv hsdm, rd. ozv tnvvd, wzb wvev rll orlhsdm ro bdcv,
wzslv rll ozv evfo wvev tnsov fslvdo, rd. lbbhv. kvep ndcbyqbeorjlvx

ozv ybyvdo rlscv riivrev., fzv wrf riivrlv. ob jp rll ozevv ob fvoolv
ozv tnvfosbd, rd. ozvp evivrov. ozvse remnyvdof ob zve, ozbnmz, rf ozvp
rll fibhv ro bdcv, fzv qbnd. so kvep zre. sd.vv. ob yrhv bno vgrcolp
wzro ozvp frs.x

ozv vgvcnosbdve’f remnyvdo wrf, ozro pbn cbnl.d’o cno bqq r zvr. ndlvff
ozvev wrf r jb.p ob cno so bqq qeby: ozro zv zr. dvkve zr. ob .b fncz r
ozsdm jvqbev, rd. zv wrfd’o mbsdm ob jvmsd ro zsf osyv bq lsqvx

ozv hsdm’f remnyvdo wrf, ozro rdpozsdm ozro zr. r zvr. cbnl. jv
jvzvr.v., rd. ozro pbn wvevd’o ob orlh dbdfvdfvx

ozv tnvvd’f remnyvdo wrf, ozro sq fbyvozsdm wrfd’o .bdv rjbno so sd lvff
ozrd db osyv fzv’. zrkv vkvepjb.p vgvcnov., rll ebnd.x (so wrf ozsf lrfo
evyreh ozro zr. yr.v ozv wzblv ireop lbbh fb merkv rd. rdgsbnfx)

rlscv cbnl. ozsdh bq dbozsdm vlfv ob frp jno ‘so jvlbdmf ob ozv .nczvff:
pbn’. jvoove rfh zve rjbno sox’

‘fzv’f sd iesfbd,’ ozv tnvvd frs. ob ozv vgvcnosbdve: ‘qvocz zve zvevx’
rd. ozv vgvcnosbdve wvdo bqq lshv rd reebwx

 ozv cro’f zvr. jvmrd qr.sdm rwrp ozv ybyvdo zv wrf mbdv, rd.,
jp ozv osyv zv zr. cbyv jrch wsoz ozv .nczvff, so zr. vdosevlp
.sfriivrev.; fb ozv hsdm rd. ozv vgvcnosbdve erd wsl.lp ni rd. .bwd
lbbhsdm qbe so, wzslv ozv evfo bq ozv ireop wvdo jrch ob ozv mryvx




czriove sgx ozv ybch oneolv’f fobep

‘pbn crd’o ozsdh zbw mlr. s ry ob fvv pbn rmrsd, pbn .vre bl. ozsdm!’
frs. ozv .nczvff, rf fzv onchv. zve rey rqqvcosbdrovlp sdob rlscv’f, rd.
ozvp wrlhv. bqq obmvozvex

rlscv wrf kvep mlr. ob qsd. zve sd fncz r ilvrfrdo ovyive, rd. ozbnmzo
ob zvefvlq ozro ivezrif so wrf bdlp ozv iviive ozro zr. yr.v zve fb
frkrmv wzvd ozvp yvo sd ozv hsoczvdx

‘wzvd s’y r .nczvff,’ fzv frs. ob zvefvlq, (dbo sd r kvep zbivqnl obdv
ozbnmz), ‘s wbd’o zrkv rdp iviive sd yp hsoczvd ro rllx fbni .bvf kvep
wvll wsozbno--yrpjv so’f rlwrpf iviive ozro yrhvf ivbilv zbo-ovyivev.,’
fzv wvdo bd, kvep yncz ilvrfv. ro zrksdm qbnd. bno r dvw hsd. bq
enlv, ‘rd. ksdvmre ozro yrhvf ozvy fbne--rd. crybyslv ozro yrhvf
ozvy jsoove--rd.--rd. jrelvp-fnmre rd. fncz ozsdmf ozro yrhv czsl.evd
fwvvo-ovyivev.x s bdlp wsfz ivbilv hdvw ozro: ozvd ozvp wbnl.d’o jv fb
fosdmp rjbno so, pbn hdbw--’

fzv zr. tnsov qbemboovd ozv .nczvff jp ozsf osyv, rd. wrf r lsoolv
foreolv. wzvd fzv zvre. zve kbscv clbfv ob zve vrex ‘pbn’ev ozsdhsdm
rjbno fbyvozsdm, yp .vre, rd. ozro yrhvf pbn qbemvo ob orlhx s crd’o
ovll pbn unfo dbw wzro ozv yberl bq ozro sf, jno s fzrll evyvyjve so sd
r jsox’

‘ivezrif so zrfd’o bdv,’ rlscv kvdonev. ob evyrehx

‘ono, ono, czsl.!’ frs. ozv .nczvffx ‘vkvepozsdm’f mbo r yberl, sq bdlp
pbn crd qsd. sox’ rd. fzv ftnvvav. zvefvlq ni clbfve ob rlscv’f fs.v rf
fzv fibhvx

rlscv .s. dbo yncz lshv hvvisdm fb clbfv ob zve: qsefo, jvcrnfv ozv
.nczvff wrf kvep nmlp; rd. fvcbd.lp, jvcrnfv fzv wrf vgrcolp ozv
esmzo zvsmzo ob evfo zve czsd nibd rlscv’f fzbnl.ve, rd. so wrf rd
ndcbyqbeorjlp fzrei czsdx zbwvkve, fzv .s. dbo lshv ob jv en.v, fb fzv
jbev so rf wvll rf fzv cbnl.x

‘ozv mryv’f mbsdm bd erozve jvoove dbw,’ fzv frs., jp wrp bq hvvisdm ni
ozv cbdkvefrosbd r lsoolvx

‘’osf fb,’ frs. ozv .nczvff: ‘rd. ozv yberl bq ozro sf--“bz, ‘osf lbkv,
‘osf lbkv, ozro yrhvf ozv wbel. mb ebnd.!”’

‘fbyvjb.p frs.,’ rlscv wzsfivev., ‘ozro so’f .bdv jp vkvepjb.p ysd.sdm
ozvse bwd jnfsdvff!’

‘rz, wvll! so yvrdf yncz ozv fryv ozsdm,’ frs. ozv .nczvff, .smmsdm zve
fzrei lsoolv czsd sdob rlscv’f fzbnl.ve rf fzv r..v., ‘rd. ozv yberl
bq ozro sf--“orhv crev bq ozv fvdfv, rd. ozv fbnd.f wsll orhv crev bq
ozvyfvlkvfx”’

‘zbw qbd. fzv sf bq qsd.sdm yberlf sd ozsdmf!’ rlscv ozbnmzo ob zvefvlqx

‘s .rev frp pbn’ev wbd.vesdm wzp s .bd’o ino yp rey ebnd. pbne wrsfo,’
ozv .nczvff frs. rqove r irnfv: ‘ozv evrfbd sf, ozro s’y .bnjoqnl rjbno
ozv ovyive bq pbne qlrysdmbx fzrll s oep ozv vgivesyvdo?’

‘zv ysmzo jsov,’ rlscv crnosbnflp evilsv., dbo qvvlsdm ro rll rdgsbnf ob
zrkv ozv vgivesyvdo oesv.x

‘kvep oenv,’ frs. ozv .nczvff: ‘qlrysdmbvf rd. ynfore. jboz jsovx rd.
ozv yberl bq ozro sf--“jse.f bq r qvrozve qlbch obmvozvex”’

‘bdlp ynfore. sfd’o r jse.,’ rlscv evyrehv.x

‘esmzo, rf nfnrl,’ frs. ozv .nczvff: ‘wzro r clvre wrp pbn zrkv bq
inoosdm ozsdmf!’

‘so’f r ysdverl, s ozsdh,’ frs. rlscvx

‘bq cbnefv so sf,’ frs. ozv .nczvff, wzb fvvyv. evr.p ob rmevv ob
vkvepozsdm ozro rlscv frs.; ‘ozvev’f r lremv ynfore.-ysdv dvre zvevx rd.
ozv yberl bq ozro sf--“ozv ybev ozvev sf bq ysdv, ozv lvff ozvev sf bq
pbnefx”’

‘bz, s hdbw!’ vgclrsyv. rlscv, wzb zr. dbo roovd.v. ob ozsf lrfo evyreh,
‘so’f r kvmvorjlvx so .bvfd’o lbbh lshv bdv, jno so sfx’

‘s tnsov rmevv wsoz pbn,’ frs. ozv .nczvff; ‘rd. ozv yberl bq ozro
sf--“jv wzro pbn wbnl. fvvy ob jv”--be sq pbn’. lshv so ino ybev
fsyilp--“dvkve syrmsdv pbnefvlq dbo ob jv bozvewsfv ozrd wzro so ysmzo
riivre ob bozvef ozro wzro pbn wvev be ysmzo zrkv jvvd wrf dbo bozvewsfv
ozrd wzro pbn zr. jvvd wbnl. zrkv riivrev. ob ozvy ob jv bozvewsfvx”’

‘s ozsdh s fzbnl. nd.veford. ozro jvoove,’ rlscv frs. kvep iblsovlp, ‘sq
s zr. so wesoovd .bwd: jno s crd’o tnsov qbllbw so rf pbn frp sox’

‘ozro’f dbozsdm ob wzro s cbnl. frp sq s czbfv,’ ozv .nczvff evilsv., sd
r ilvrfv. obdvx

‘ierp .bd’o oebnjlv pbnefvlq ob frp so rdp lbdmve ozrd ozro,’ frs.
rlscvx

‘bz, .bd’o orlh rjbno oebnjlv!’ frs. ozv .nczvffx ‘s yrhv pbn r ievfvdo
bq vkvepozsdm s’kv frs. rf pvox’

‘r czvri fbeo bq ievfvdo!’ ozbnmzo rlscvx ‘s’y mlr. ozvp .bd’o mskv
jseoz.rp ievfvdof lshv ozro!’ jno fzv .s. dbo kvdonev ob frp so bno
lbn.x

‘ozsdhsdm rmrsd?’ ozv .nczvff rfhv., wsoz rdbozve .sm bq zve fzrei
lsoolv czsdx

‘s’kv r esmzo ob ozsdh,’ frs. rlscv fzreilp, qbe fzv wrf jvmsddsdm ob
qvvl r lsoolv wbeesv.x

‘unfo rjbno rf yncz esmzo,’ frs. ozv .nczvff, ‘rf ismf zrkv ob qlp; rd.
ozv y--’

jno zvev, ob rlscv’f mevro fneiesfv, ozv .nczvff’f kbscv .sv. rwrp, vkvd
sd ozv ys..lv bq zve qrkbnesov wbe. ‘yberl,’ rd. ozv rey ozro wrf lsdhv.
sdob zvef jvmrd ob oevyjlvx rlscv lbbhv. ni, rd. ozvev fobb. ozv tnvvd
sd qebdo bq ozvy, wsoz zve reyf qbl.v., qebwdsdm lshv r oznd.vefobeyx

‘r qsdv .rp, pbne yruvfop!’ ozv .nczvff jvmrd sd r lbw, wvrh kbscvx

‘dbw, s mskv pbn qrse wredsdm,’ fzbnov. ozv tnvvd, foryisdm bd ozv
mebnd. rf fzv fibhv; ‘vsozve pbn be pbne zvr. ynfo jv bqq, rd. ozro sd
rjbno zrlq db osyv! orhv pbne czbscv!’

ozv .nczvff obbh zve czbscv, rd. wrf mbdv sd r ybyvdox

‘lvo’f mb bd wsoz ozv mryv,’ ozv tnvvd frs. ob rlscv; rd. rlscv wrf
obb yncz qesmzovdv. ob frp r wbe., jno flbwlp qbllbwv. zve jrch ob ozv
cebtnvo-mebnd.x

ozv bozve mnvfof zr. orhvd r.krdormv bq ozv tnvvd’f rjfvdcv, rd. wvev
evfosdm sd ozv fzr.v: zbwvkve, ozv ybyvdo ozvp frw zve, ozvp zneesv.
jrch ob ozv mryv, ozv tnvvd yvevlp evyrehsdm ozro r ybyvdo’f .vlrp wbnl.
cbfo ozvy ozvse lskvfx

rll ozv osyv ozvp wvev ilrpsdm ozv tnvvd dvkve lvqo bqq tnreevllsdm wsoz
ozv bozve ilrpvef, rd. fzbnosdm ‘bqq wsoz zsf zvr.!’ be ‘bqq wsoz zve
zvr.!’ ozbfv wzby fzv fvdovdcv. wvev orhvd sdob cnfob.p jp ozv fbl.svef,
wzb bq cbnefv zr. ob lvrkv bqq jvsdm reczvf ob .b ozsf, fb ozro jp
ozv vd. bq zrlq rd zbne be fb ozvev wvev db reczvf lvqo, rd. rll ozv
ilrpvef, vgcvio ozv hsdm, ozv tnvvd, rd. rlscv, wvev sd cnfob.p rd.
nd.ve fvdovdcv bq vgvcnosbdx

ozvd ozv tnvvd lvqo bqq, tnsov bno bq jevroz, rd. frs. ob rlscv, ‘zrkv
pbn fvvd ozv ybch oneolv pvo?’

‘db,’ frs. rlscvx ‘s .bd’o vkvd hdbw wzro r ybch oneolv sfx’

‘so’f ozv ozsdm ybch oneolv fbni sf yr.v qeby,’ frs. ozv tnvvdx

‘s dvkve frw bdv, be zvre. bq bdv,’ frs. rlscvx

‘cbyv bd, ozvd,’ frs. ozv tnvvd, ‘rd. zv fzrll ovll pbn zsf zsfobep,’

rf ozvp wrlhv. bqq obmvozve, rlscv zvre. ozv hsdm frp sd r lbw kbscv,
ob ozv cbyirdp mvdverllp, ‘pbn rev rll ire.bdv.x’ ‘cbyv, ozro’f r mbb.
ozsdm!’ fzv frs. ob zvefvlq, qbe fzv zr. qvlo tnsov ndzriip ro ozv
dnyjve bq vgvcnosbdf ozv tnvvd zr. be.vev.x

ozvp kvep fbbd cryv nibd r mepizbd, lpsdm qrfo rflvvi sd ozv fndx
(sq pbn .bd’o hdbw wzro r mepizbd sf, lbbh ro ozv isconevx) ‘ni, lrap
ozsdm!’ frs. ozv tnvvd, ‘rd. orhv ozsf pbndm lr.p ob fvv ozv ybch
oneolv, rd. ob zvre zsf zsfobepx s ynfo mb jrch rd. fvv rqove fbyv
vgvcnosbdf s zrkv be.vev.’; rd. fzv wrlhv. bqq, lvrksdm rlscv rlbdv wsoz
ozv mepizbdx rlscv .s. dbo tnsov lshv ozv lbbh bq ozv cevronev, jno bd
ozv wzblv fzv ozbnmzo so wbnl. jv tnsov rf frqv ob forp wsoz so rf ob mb
rqove ozro frkrmv tnvvd: fb fzv wrsov.x

ozv mepizbd fro ni rd. enjjv. sof vpvf: ozvd so wroczv. ozv tnvvd osll
fzv wrf bno bq fsmzo: ozvd so cznchlv.x ‘wzro qnd!’ frs. ozv mepizbd,
zrlq ob sofvlq, zrlq ob rlscvx

‘wzro sf ozv qnd?’ frs. rlscvx

‘wzp, fzv,’ frs. ozv mepizbdx ‘so’f rll zve qrdcp, ozro: ozvp dvkve
vgvcnovf dbjb.p, pbn hdbwx cbyv bd!’

‘vkvepjb.p frpf “cbyv bd!” zvev,’ ozbnmzo rlscv, rf fzv wvdo flbwlp
rqove so: ‘s dvkve wrf fb be.vev. rjbno sd rll yp lsqv, dvkve!’

ozvp zr. dbo mbdv qre jvqbev ozvp frw ozv ybch oneolv sd ozv .sfordcv,
fsoosdm fr. rd. lbdvlp bd r lsoolv lv.mv bq ebch, rd., rf ozvp cryv
dvreve, rlscv cbnl. zvre zsy fsmzsdm rf sq zsf zvreo wbnl. jevrhx fzv
isosv. zsy .vvilpx ‘wzro sf zsf fbeebw?’ fzv rfhv. ozv mepizbd, rd. ozv
mepizbd rdfwvev., kvep dvrelp sd ozv fryv wbe.f rf jvqbev, ‘so’f rll zsf
qrdcp, ozro: zv zrfd’o mbo db fbeebw, pbn hdbwx cbyv bd!’

fb ozvp wvdo ni ob ozv ybch oneolv, wzb lbbhv. ro ozvy wsoz lremv vpvf
qnll bq ovref, jno frs. dbozsdmx

‘ozsf zvev pbndm lr.p,’ frs. ozv mepizbd, ‘fzv wrdof qbe ob hdbw pbne
zsfobep, fzv .bx’

‘s’ll ovll so zve,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolv sd r .vvi, zbllbw obdv: ‘fso
.bwd, jboz bq pbn, rd. .bd’o fivrh r wbe. osll s’kv qsdsfzv.x’

fb ozvp fro .bwd, rd. dbjb.p fibhv qbe fbyv ysdnovfx rlscv ozbnmzo ob
zvefvlq, ‘s .bd’o fvv zbw zv crd vkvd qsdsfz, sq zv .bvfd’o jvmsdx’ jno
fzv wrsov. irosvdolpx

‘bdcv,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolv ro lrfo, wsoz r .vvi fsmz, ‘s wrf r evrl
oneolvx’

ozvfv wbe.f wvev qbllbwv. jp r kvep lbdm fslvdcv, jebhvd bdlp jp rd
bccrfsbdrl vgclryrosbd bq ‘zucheez!’ qeby ozv mepizbd, rd. ozv cbdfordo
zvrkp fbjjsdm bq ozv ybch oneolvx rlscv wrf kvep dvrelp mvoosdm ni rd.
frpsdm, ‘ozrdh pbn, fse, qbe pbne sdovevfosdm fobep,’ jno fzv cbnl.
dbo zvli ozsdhsdm ozvev ynfo jv ybev ob cbyv, fb fzv fro fosll rd. frs.
dbozsdmx

‘wzvd wv wvev lsoolv,’ ozv ybch oneolv wvdo bd ro lrfo, ybev crlylp,
ozbnmz fosll fbjjsdm r lsoolv dbw rd. ozvd, ‘wv wvdo ob fczbbl sd ozv
fvrx ozv yrfove wrf rd bl. oneolv--wv nfv. ob crll zsy obeobsfv--’

‘wzp .s. pbn crll zsy obeobsfv, sq zv wrfd’o bdv?’ rlscv rfhv.x

‘wv crllv. zsy obeobsfv jvcrnfv zv ornmzo nf,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolv
rdmeslp: ‘evrllp pbn rev kvep .nll!’

‘pbn bnmzo ob jv rfzryv. bq pbnefvlq qbe rfhsdm fncz r fsyilv tnvfosbd,’
r..v. ozv mepizbd; rd. ozvd ozvp jboz fro fslvdo rd. lbbhv. ro ibbe
rlscv, wzb qvlo evr.p ob fsdh sdob ozv vreozx ro lrfo ozv mepizbd frs.
ob ozv ybch oneolv, ‘.eskv bd, bl. qvllbw! .bd’o jv rll .rp rjbno so!’
rd. zv wvdo bd sd ozvfv wbe.f:

‘pvf, wv wvdo ob fczbbl sd ozv fvr, ozbnmz pbn yrpd’o jvlsvkv so--’

‘s dvkve frs. s .s.d’o!’ sdoveeniov. rlscvx

‘pbn .s.,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolvx

‘zbl. pbne obdmnv!’ r..v. ozv mepizbd, jvqbev rlscv cbnl. fivrh rmrsdx
ozv ybch oneolv wvdo bdx

‘wv zr. ozv jvfo bq v.ncrosbdf--sd qrco, wv wvdo ob fczbbl vkvep .rp--’

‘s’kv jvvd ob r .rp-fczbbl, obb,’ frs. rlscv; ‘pbn dvv.d’o jv fb iebn.
rf rll ozrox’

‘wsoz vgoerf?’ rfhv. ozv ybch oneolv r lsoolv rdgsbnflpx

‘pvf,’ frs. rlscv, ‘wv lvredv. qevdcz rd. ynfscx’

‘rd. wrfzsdm?’ frs. ozv ybch oneolvx

‘cveorsdlp dbo!’ frs. rlscv sd.smdrdolpx

‘rz! ozvd pbnef wrfd’o r evrllp mbb. fczbbl,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolv sd
r obdv bq mevro evlsvqx ‘dbw ro bnef ozvp zr. ro ozv vd. bq ozv jsll,
“qevdcz, ynfsc, rd. wrfzsdm--vgoerx”’

‘pbn cbnl.d’o zrkv wrdov. so yncz,’ frs. rlscv; ‘lsksdm ro ozv jbooby bq
ozv fvrx’

‘s cbnl.d’o rqqbe. ob lvred sox’ frs. ozv ybch oneolv wsoz r fsmzx ‘s
bdlp obbh ozv evmnlre cbnefvx’

‘wzro wrf ozro?’ sdtnsev. rlscvx

‘evvlsdm rd. wesozsdm, bq cbnefv, ob jvmsd wsoz,’ ozv ybch oneolv
evilsv.; ‘rd. ozvd ozv .sqqvevdo jerdczvf bq resozyvosc--ryjsosbd,
.sfoercosbd, nmlsqscrosbd, rd. .vesfsbdx’

‘s dvkve zvre. bq “nmlsqscrosbd,”’ rlscv kvdonev. ob frpx ‘wzro sf so?’

ozv mepizbd lsqov. ni jboz sof irwf sd fneiesfvx ‘wzro! dvkve zvre. bq
nmlsqpsdm!’ so vgclrsyv.x ‘pbn hdbw wzro ob jvrnosqp sf, s fniibfv?’

‘pvf,’ frs. rlscv .bnjoqnllp: ‘so yvrdf--ob--yrhv--rdpozsdm--ievoosvex’

‘wvll, ozvd,’ ozv mepizbd wvdo bd, ‘sq pbn .bd’o hdbw wzro ob nmlsqp sf,
pbn rev r fsyilvobdx’

rlscv .s. dbo qvvl vdcbnermv. ob rfh rdp ybev tnvfosbdf rjbno so, fb fzv
onedv. ob ozv ybch oneolv, rd. frs. ‘wzro vlfv zr. pbn ob lvred?’

‘wvll, ozvev wrf ypfovep,’ ozv ybch oneolv evilsv., cbndosdm bqq
ozv fnjuvcof bd zsf qlriivef, ‘--ypfovep, rdcsvdo rd. yb.ved, wsoz
fvrbmerizp: ozvd .erwlsdm--ozv .erwlsdm-yrfove wrf rd bl. cbdmve-vvl,
ozro nfv. ob cbyv bdcv r wvvh: zv ornmzo nf .erwlsdm, foevoczsdm, rd.
qrsdosdm sd cbslfx’

‘wzro wrf ozro lshv?’ frs. rlscvx

‘wvll, s crd’o fzbw so pbn ypfvlq,’ ozv ybch oneolv frs.: ‘s’y obb
fosqqx rd. ozv mepizbd dvkve lvredo sox’

‘zr.d’o osyv,’ frs. ozv mepizbd: ‘s wvdo ob ozv clrffscf yrfove, ozbnmzx
zv wrf rd bl. cerj, zv wrfx’

‘s dvkve wvdo ob zsy,’ ozv ybch oneolv frs. wsoz r fsmz: ‘zv ornmzo
lrnmzsdm rd. mesvq, ozvp nfv. ob frpx’

‘fb zv .s., fb zv .s.,’ frs. ozv mepizbd, fsmzsdm sd zsf oned; rd. jboz
cevronevf zs. ozvse qrcvf sd ozvse irwfx

‘rd. zbw yrdp zbnef r .rp .s. pbn .b lvffbdf?’ frs. rlscv, sd r zneep ob
czrdmv ozv fnjuvcox

‘ovd zbnef ozv qsefo .rp,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolv: ‘dsdv ozv dvgo, rd. fb
bdx’

‘wzro r cnesbnf ilrd!’ vgclrsyv. rlscvx

‘ozro’f ozv evrfbd ozvp’ev crllv. lvffbdf,’ ozv mepizbd evyrehv.:
‘jvcrnfv ozvp lvffvd qeby .rp ob .rpx’

ozsf wrf tnsov r dvw s.vr ob rlscv, rd. fzv ozbnmzo so bkve r lsoolv
jvqbev fzv yr.v zve dvgo evyrehx ‘ozvd ozv vlvkvdoz .rp ynfo zrkv jvvd r
zbls.rp?’

‘bq cbnefv so wrf,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolvx

‘rd. zbw .s. pbn yrdrmv bd ozv owvlqoz?’ rlscv wvdo bd vrmvelpx

‘ozro’f vdbnmz rjbno lvffbdf,’ ozv mepizbd sdoveeniov. sd r kvep .vcs.v.
obdv: ‘ovll zve fbyvozsdm rjbno ozv mryvf dbwx’




czriove gx ozv lbjfove tnr.esllv

ozv ybch oneolv fsmzv. .vvilp, rd. .evw ozv jrch bq bdv qlriive rcebff
zsf vpvfx zv lbbhv. ro rlscv, rd. oesv. ob fivrh, jno qbe r ysdnov be
owb fbjf czbhv. zsf kbscvx ‘fryv rf sq zv zr. r jbdv sd zsf ozebro,’
frs. ozv mepizbd: rd. so fvo ob wbeh fzrhsdm zsy rd. indczsdm zsy sd
ozv jrchx ro lrfo ozv ybch oneolv evcbkvev. zsf kbscv, rd., wsoz ovref
enddsdm .bwd zsf czvvhf, zv wvdo bd rmrsd:--

‘pbn yrp dbo zrkv lskv. yncz nd.ve ozv fvr--’ [‘s zrkvd’o,’ frs.
rlscv)--‘rd. ivezrif pbn wvev dvkve vkvd sdoeb.ncv. ob r lbjfove--’
(rlscv jvmrd ob frp ‘s bdcv orfov.--’ jno czvchv. zvefvlq zrfoslp, rd.
frs. ‘db, dvkve’) ‘--fb pbn crd zrkv db s.vr wzro r .vlsmzoqnl ozsdm r
lbjfove tnr.esllv sf!’

‘db, sd.vv.,’ frs. rlscvx ‘wzro fbeo bq r .rdcv sf so?’

‘wzp,’ frs. ozv mepizbd, ‘pbn qsefo qbey sdob r lsdv rlbdm ozv
fvr-fzbev--’

‘owb lsdvf!’ cesv. ozv ybch oneolvx ‘fvrlf, oneolvf, frlybd, rd. fb bd;
ozvd, wzvd pbn’kv clvrev. rll ozv uvllp-qsfz bno bq ozv wrp--’

‘ozro mvdverllp orhvf fbyv osyv,’ sdoveeniov. ozv mepizbdx

‘--pbn r.krdcv owscv--’

‘vrcz wsoz r lbjfove rf r ireodve!’ cesv. ozv mepizbdx

‘bq cbnefv,’ ozv ybch oneolv frs.: ‘r.krdcv owscv, fvo ob ireodvef--’

‘--czrdmv lbjfovef, rd. evosev sd fryv be.ve,’ cbdosdnv. ozv mepizbdx

‘ozvd, pbn hdbw,’ ozv ybch oneolv wvdo bd, ‘pbn ozebw ozv--’

‘ozv lbjfovef!’ fzbnov. ozv mepizbd, wsoz r jbnd. sdob ozv rsex

‘--rf qre bno ob fvr rf pbn crd--’

‘fwsy rqove ozvy!’ fcevryv. ozv mepizbdx

‘oned r fbyvefrnlo sd ozv fvr!’ cesv. ozv ybch oneolv, crivesdm wsl.lp
rjbnox

‘czrdmv lbjfovef rmrsd!’ pvllv. ozv mepizbd ro ozv obi bq sof kbscvx

‘jrch ob lrd. rmrsd, rd. ozro’f rll ozv qsefo qsmnev,’ frs. ozv ybch
oneolv, fn..vdlp .ebiisdm zsf kbscv; rd. ozv owb cevronevf, wzb zr. jvvd
unyisdm rjbno lshv yr. ozsdmf rll ozsf osyv, fro .bwd rmrsd kvep fr.lp
rd. tnsvolp, rd. lbbhv. ro rlscvx

‘so ynfo jv r kvep ievoop .rdcv,’ frs. rlscv osys.lpx

‘wbnl. pbn lshv ob fvv r lsoolv bq so?’ frs. ozv ybch oneolvx

‘kvep yncz sd.vv.,’ frs. rlscvx

‘cbyv, lvo’f oep ozv qsefo qsmnev!’ frs. ozv ybch oneolv ob ozv mepizbdx
‘wv crd .b wsozbno lbjfovef, pbn hdbwx wzscz fzrll fsdm?’

‘bz, pbn fsdm,’ frs. ozv mepizbdx ‘s’kv qbemboovd ozv wbe.fx’

fb ozvp jvmrd fblvydlp .rdcsdm ebnd. rd. ebnd. rlscv, vkvep dbw rd.
ozvd oevr.sdm bd zve obvf wzvd ozvp irffv. obb clbfv, rd. wrksdm ozvse
qbevirwf ob yreh ozv osyv, wzslv ozv ybch oneolv frdm ozsf, kvep flbwlp
rd. fr.lp:--

 ‘“wsll pbn wrlh r lsoolv qrfove?” frs. r wzsosdm ob r fdrslx
 “ozvev’f r ibeibsfv clbfv jvzsd. nf, rd. zv’f oevr.sdm bd yp orslx

 fvv zbw vrmvelp ozv lbjfovef rd. ozv oneolvf rll r.krdcv!
 ozvp rev wrsosdm bd ozv fzsdmlv--wsll pbn cbyv rd. ubsd ozv .rdcv?

 wsll pbn, wbd’o pbn, wsll pbn, wbd’o pbn, wsll pbn ubsd ozv .rdcv?
 wsll pbn, wbd’o pbn, wsll pbn, wbd’o pbn, wbd’o pbn ubsd ozv .rdcv?

 “pbn crd evrllp zrkv db dbosbd zbw .vlsmzoqnl so wsll jv
 wzvd ozvp orhv nf ni rd. ozebw nf, wsoz ozv lbjfovef, bno ob fvr!”
  jno ozv fdrsl evilsv. “obb qre, obb qre!” rd. mrkv r lbbh rfhrdcv--
 frs. zv ozrdhv. ozv wzsosdm hsd.lp, jno zv wbnl. dbo ubsd ozv .rdcvx

 wbnl. dbo, cbnl. dbo, wbnl. dbo, cbnl. dbo, wbnl. dbo ubsd ozv .rdcvx
 wbnl. dbo, cbnl. dbo, wbnl. dbo, cbnl. dbo, cbnl. dbo ubsd ozv .rdcvx

 ‘“wzro yroovef so zbw qre wv mb?” zsf fcrlp qesvd. evilsv.x
 “ozvev sf rdbozve fzbev, pbn hdbw, nibd ozv bozve fs.vx
 ozv qneozve bqq qeby vdmlrd. ozv dvreve sf ob qerdcv--
 ozvd oned dbo irlv, jvlbkv. fdrsl, jno cbyv rd. ubsd ozv .rdcvx

 wsll pbn, wbd’o pbn, wsll pbn, wbd’o pbn, wsll pbn ubsd ozv .rdcv?
 wsll pbn, wbd’o pbn, wsll pbn, wbd’o pbn, wbd’o pbn ubsd ozv .rdcv?”’

‘ozrdh pbn, so’f r kvep sdovevfosdm .rdcv ob wrocz,’ frs. rlscv, qvvlsdm
kvep mlr. ozro so wrf bkve ro lrfo: ‘rd. s .b fb lshv ozro cnesbnf fbdm
rjbno ozv wzsosdm!’

‘bz, rf ob ozv wzsosdm,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolv, ‘ozvp--pbn’kv fvvd ozvy,
bq cbnefv?’

‘pvf,’ frs. rlscv, ‘s’kv bqovd fvvd ozvy ro .sdd--’ fzv czvchv. zvefvlq
zrfoslpx

‘s .bd’o hdbw wzvev .sdd yrp jv,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolv, ‘jno sq pbn’kv
fvvd ozvy fb bqovd, bq cbnefv pbn hdbw wzro ozvp’ev lshvx’

‘s jvlsvkv fb,’ rlscv evilsv. ozbnmzoqnllpx ‘ozvp zrkv ozvse orslf sd
ozvse ybnozf--rd. ozvp’ev rll bkve cenyjfx’

‘pbn’ev webdm rjbno ozv cenyjf,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolv: ‘cenyjf wbnl. rll
wrfz bqq sd ozv fvrx jno ozvp zrkv ozvse orslf sd ozvse ybnozf; rd. ozv
evrfbd sf--’ zvev ozv ybch oneolv prwdv. rd. fzno zsf vpvfx--‘ovll zve
rjbno ozv evrfbd rd. rll ozro,’ zv frs. ob ozv mepizbdx

‘ozv evrfbd sf,’ frs. ozv mepizbd, ‘ozro ozvp wbnl. mb wsoz ozv lbjfovef
ob ozv .rdcvx fb ozvp mbo ozebwd bno ob fvrx fb ozvp zr. ob qrll r lbdm
wrpx fb ozvp mbo ozvse orslf qrfo sd ozvse ybnozfx fb ozvp cbnl.d’o mvo
ozvy bno rmrsdx ozro’f rllx’

‘ozrdh pbn,’ frs. rlscv, ‘so’f kvep sdovevfosdmx s dvkve hdvw fb yncz
rjbno r wzsosdm jvqbevx’

‘s crd ovll pbn ybev ozrd ozro, sq pbn lshv,’ frs. ozv mepizbdx ‘.b pbn
hdbw wzp so’f crllv. r wzsosdm?’

‘s dvkve ozbnmzo rjbno so,’ frs. rlscvx ‘wzp?’

‘so .bvf ozv jbbof rd. fzbvfx’ ozv mepizbd evilsv. kvep fblvydlpx

rlscv wrf ozbebnmzlp inaalv.x ‘.bvf ozv jbbof rd. fzbvf!’ fzv evivrov.
sd r wbd.vesdm obdvx

‘wzp, wzro rev pbne fzbvf .bdv wsoz?’ frs. ozv mepizbdx ‘s yvrd, wzro
yrhvf ozvy fb fzsdp?’

rlscv lbbhv. .bwd ro ozvy, rd. cbdfs.vev. r lsoolv jvqbev fzv mrkv zve
rdfwvex ‘ozvp’ev .bdv wsoz jlrchsdm, s jvlsvkvx’

‘jbbof rd. fzbvf nd.ve ozv fvr,’ ozv mepizbd wvdo bd sd r .vvi kbscv,
‘rev .bdv wsoz r wzsosdmx dbw pbn hdbwx’

‘rd. wzro rev ozvp yr.v bq?’ rlscv rfhv. sd r obdv bq mevro cnesbfsopx

‘fblvf rd. vvlf, bq cbnefv,’ ozv mepizbd evilsv. erozve syirosvdolp:
‘rdp fzesyi cbnl. zrkv obl. pbn ozrox’

‘sq s’. jvvd ozv wzsosdm,’ frs. rlscv, wzbfv ozbnmzof wvev fosll enddsdm
bd ozv fbdm, ‘s’. zrkv frs. ob ozv ibeibsfv, “hvvi jrch, ilvrfv: wv
.bd’o wrdo pbn wsoz nf!”’

‘ozvp wvev bjlsmv. ob zrkv zsy wsoz ozvy,’ ozv ybch oneolv frs.: ‘db
wsfv qsfz wbnl. mb rdpwzvev wsozbno r ibeibsfvx’

‘wbnl.d’o so evrllp?’ frs. rlscv sd r obdv bq mevro fneiesfvx

‘bq cbnefv dbo,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolv: ‘wzp, sq r qsfz cryv ob yv, rd.
obl. yv zv wrf mbsdm r ubnedvp, s fzbnl. frp “wsoz wzro ibeibsfv?”’

‘.bd’o pbn yvrd “ineibfv”?’ frs. rlscvx

‘s yvrd wzro s frp,’ ozv ybch oneolv evilsv. sd rd bqqvd.v. obdvx rd.
ozv mepizbd r..v. ‘cbyv, lvo’f zvre fbyv bq pbne r.kvdonevfx’

‘s cbnl. ovll pbn yp r.kvdonevf--jvmsddsdm qeby ozsf ybedsdm,’ frs.
rlscv r lsoolv osys.lp: ‘jno so’f db nfv mbsdm jrch ob pvfove.rp,
jvcrnfv s wrf r .sqqvevdo ivefbd ozvdx’

‘vgilrsd rll ozro,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolvx

‘db, db! ozv r.kvdonevf qsefo,’ frs. ozv mepizbd sd rd syirosvdo obdv:
‘vgilrdrosbdf orhv fncz r .evr.qnl osyvx’

fb rlscv jvmrd ovllsdm ozvy zve r.kvdonevf qeby ozv osyv wzvd fzv qsefo
frw ozv wzsov erjjsox fzv wrf r lsoolv dvekbnf rjbno so unfo ro qsefo,
ozv owb cevronevf mbo fb clbfv ob zve, bdv bd vrcz fs.v, rd. bivdv.
ozvse vpvf rd. ybnozf fb kvep ws.v, jno fzv mrsdv. cbnermv rf fzv wvdo
bdx zve lsfovdvef wvev iveqvcolp tnsvo osll fzv mbo ob ozv ireo rjbno
zve evivrosdm ‘pbn rev bl., qrozve wsllsry,’ ob ozv croveisllre, rd. ozv
wbe.f rll cbysdm .sqqvevdo, rd. ozvd ozv ybch oneolv .evw r lbdm jevroz,
rd. frs. ‘ozro’f kvep cnesbnfx’

‘so’f rll rjbno rf cnesbnf rf so crd jv,’ frs. ozv mepizbdx

‘so rll cryv .sqqvevdo!’ ozv ybch oneolv evivrov. ozbnmzoqnllpx ‘s
fzbnl. lshv ob zvre zve oep rd. evivro fbyvozsdm dbwx ovll zve ob
jvmsdx’ zv lbbhv. ro ozv mepizbd rf sq zv ozbnmzo so zr. fbyv hsd. bq
rnozbesop bkve rlscvx

‘ford. ni rd. evivro “‘osf ozv kbscv bq ozv flnmmre.,”’ frs. ozv
mepizbdx

‘zbw ozv cevronevf be.ve bdv rjbno, rd. yrhv bdv evivro lvffbdf!’
ozbnmzo rlscv; ‘s ysmzo rf wvll jv ro fczbbl ro bdcvx’ zbwvkve, fzv
mbo ni, rd. jvmrd ob evivro so, jno zve zvr. wrf fb qnll bq ozv lbjfove
tnr.esllv, ozro fzv zre.lp hdvw wzro fzv wrf frpsdm, rd. ozv wbe.f cryv
kvep tnvve sd.vv.:--

  ‘’osf ozv kbscv bq ozv lbjfove; s zvre. zsy .vclrev,
  “pbn zrkv jrhv. yv obb jebwd, s ynfo fnmre yp zrsex”
   rf r .nch wsoz sof vpvls.f, fb zv wsoz zsf dbfv
  oesyf zsf jvlo rd. zsf jnoobdf, rd. onedf bno zsf obvfx’

       [lrove v.sosbdf cbdosdnv. rf qbllbwf
  wzvd ozv frd.f rev rll .ep, zv sf mrp rf r lreh,
  rd. wsll orlh sd cbdovyionbnf obdvf bq ozv fzreh,
  jno, wzvd ozv os.v esfvf rd. fzrehf rev rebnd.,
  zsf kbscv zrf r osys. rd. oevynlbnf fbnd.x]

‘ozro’f .sqqvevdo qeby wzro s nfv. ob frp wzvd s wrf r czsl.,’ frs. ozv
mepizbdx

‘wvll, s dvkve zvre. so jvqbev,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolv; ‘jno so fbnd.f
ndcbyybd dbdfvdfvx’

rlscv frs. dbozsdm; fzv zr. fro .bwd wsoz zve qrcv sd zve zrd.f,
wbd.vesdm sq rdpozsdm wbnl. vkve zriivd sd r dronerl wrp rmrsdx

‘s fzbnl. lshv ob zrkv so vgilrsdv.,’ frs. ozv ybch oneolvx

‘fzv crd’o vgilrsd so,’ frs. ozv mepizbd zrfoslpx ‘mb bd wsoz ozv dvgo
kvefvx’

‘jno rjbno zsf obvf?’ ozv ybch oneolv ivefsfov.x ‘zbw cbnl. zv oned ozvy
bno wsoz zsf dbfv, pbn hdbw?’

‘so’f ozv qsefo ibfsosbd sd .rdcsdmx’ rlscv frs.; jno wrf .evr.qnllp
inaalv. jp ozv wzblv ozsdm, rd. lbdmv. ob czrdmv ozv fnjuvcox

‘mb bd wsoz ozv dvgo kvefv,’ ozv mepizbd evivrov. syirosvdolp: ‘so
jvmsdf “s irffv. jp zsf mre.vdx”’

rlscv .s. dbo .rev ob .sfbjvp, ozbnmz fzv qvlo fnev so wbnl. rll cbyv
webdm, rd. fzv wvdo bd sd r oevyjlsdm kbscv:--

  ‘s irffv. jp zsf mre.vd, rd. yrehv., wsoz bdv vpv,
  zbw ozv bwl rd. ozv irdozve wvev fzresdm r isv--’

    [lrove v.sosbdf cbdosdnv. rf qbllbwf
  ozv irdozve obbh isv-cenfo, rd. merkp, rd. yvro,
  wzslv ozv bwl zr. ozv .sfz rf sof fzrev bq ozv oevrox
  wzvd ozv isv wrf rll qsdsfzv., ozv bwl, rf r jbbd,
  wrf hsd.lp iveysoov. ob ibchvo ozv fibbd:
  wzslv ozv irdozve evcvskv. hdsqv rd. qbeh wsoz r mebwl,
  rd. cbdcln.v. ozv jrdtnvo--]

‘wzro sf ozv nfv bq evivrosdm rll ozro fonqq,’ ozv ybch oneolv
sdoveeniov., ‘sq pbn .bd’o vgilrsd so rf pbn mb bd? so’f jp qre ozv ybfo
cbdqnfsdm ozsdm s vkve zvre.!’

‘pvf, s ozsdh pbn’. jvoove lvrkv bqq,’ frs. ozv mepizbd: rd. rlscv wrf
bdlp obb mlr. ob .b fbx

‘fzrll wv oep rdbozve qsmnev bq ozv lbjfove tnr.esllv?’ ozv mepizbd wvdo
bdx ‘be wbnl. pbn lshv ozv ybch oneolv ob fsdm pbn r fbdm?’

‘bz, r fbdm, ilvrfv, sq ozv ybch oneolv wbnl. jv fb hsd.,’ rlscv
evilsv., fb vrmvelp ozro ozv mepizbd frs., sd r erozve bqqvd.v. obdv,
‘zy! db rccbndosdm qbe orfovf! fsdm zve “oneolv fbni,” wsll pbn, bl.
qvllbw?’

ozv ybch oneolv fsmzv. .vvilp, rd. jvmrd, sd r kbscv fbyvosyvf czbhv.
wsoz fbjf, ob fsdm ozsf:--

   ‘jvrnosqnl fbni, fb escz rd. mevvd,
   wrsosdm sd r zbo onevvd!
   wzb qbe fncz .rsdosvf wbnl. dbo fobbi?
   fbni bq ozv vkvdsdm, jvrnosqnl fbni!
   fbni bq ozv vkvdsdm, jvrnosqnl fbni!
     jvrn--bbosqnl fbb--bbi!
     jvrn--bbosqnl fbb--bbi!
   fbb--bbi bq ozv v--v--vkvdsdm,
     jvrnosqnl, jvrnosqnl fbni!

   ‘jvrnosqnl fbni! wzb crevf qbe qsfz,
   mryv, be rdp bozve .sfz?
   wzb wbnl. dbo mskv rll vlfv qbe owb
   ivddpwbeoz bdlp bq jvrnosqnl fbni?
   ivddpwbeoz bdlp bq jvrnosqnl fbni?
     jvrn--bbosqnl fbb--bbi!
     jvrn--bbosqnl fbb--bbi!
   fbb--bbi bq ozv v--v--vkvdsdm,
     jvrnosqnl, jvrnos--qnl fbni!’

‘czbenf rmrsd!’ cesv. ozv mepizbd, rd. ozv ybch oneolv zr. unfo jvmnd
ob evivro so, wzvd r cep bq ‘ozv oesrl’f jvmsddsdm!’ wrf zvre. sd ozv
.sfordcvx

‘cbyv bd!’ cesv. ozv mepizbd, rd., orhsdm rlscv jp ozv zrd., so zneesv.
bqq, wsozbno wrsosdm qbe ozv vd. bq ozv fbdmx

‘wzro oesrl sf so?’ rlscv irdov. rf fzv erd; jno ozv mepizbd bdlp
rdfwvev. ‘cbyv bd!’ rd. erd ozv qrfove, wzslv ybev rd. ybev qrsdolp
cryv, creesv. bd ozv jevvav ozro qbllbwv. ozvy, ozv yvlrdczblp wbe.f:--

   ‘fbb--bbi bq ozv v--v--vkvdsdm,
     jvrnosqnl, jvrnosqnl fbni!’




czriove gsx wzb foblv ozv oreof?

ozv hsdm rd. tnvvd bq zvreof wvev fvrov. bd ozvse ozebdv wzvd ozvp
reeskv., wsoz r mevro cebw. rffvyjlv. rjbno ozvy--rll fbeof bq lsoolv
jse.f rd. jvrfof, rf wvll rf ozv wzblv irch bq cre.f: ozv hdrkv wrf
ford.sdm jvqbev ozvy, sd czrsdf, wsoz r fbl.sve bd vrcz fs.v ob mnre.
zsy; rd. dvre ozv hsdm wrf ozv wzsov erjjso, wsoz r oenyivo sd bdv zrd.,
rd. r fcebll bq ireczyvdo sd ozv bozvex sd ozv kvep ys..lv bq ozv cbneo
wrf r orjlv, wsoz r lremv .sfz bq oreof nibd so: ozvp lbbhv. fb mbb.,
ozro so yr.v rlscv tnsov zndmep ob lbbh ro ozvy--‘s wsfz ozvp’. mvo ozv
oesrl .bdv,’ fzv ozbnmzo, ‘rd. zrd. ebnd. ozv evqevfzyvdof!’ jno ozvev
fvvyv. ob jv db czrdcv bq ozsf, fb fzv jvmrd lbbhsdm ro vkvepozsdm rjbno
zve, ob irff rwrp ozv osyvx

rlscv zr. dvkve jvvd sd r cbneo bq unfoscv jvqbev, jno fzv zr. evr.
rjbno ozvy sd jbbhf, rd. fzv wrf tnsov ilvrfv. ob qsd. ozro fzv hdvw
ozv dryv bq dvrelp vkvepozsdm ozvevx ‘ozro’f ozv un.mv,’ fzv frs. ob
zvefvlq, ‘jvcrnfv bq zsf mevro wsmx’

ozv un.mv, jp ozv wrp, wrf ozv hsdm; rd. rf zv wbev zsf cebwd bkve ozv
wsm, (lbbh ro ozv qebdosfisvcv sq pbn wrdo ob fvv zbw zv .s. so,) zv .s.
dbo lbbh ro rll cbyqbeorjlv, rd. so wrf cveorsdlp dbo jvcbysdmx

‘rd. ozro’f ozv unep-jbg,’ ozbnmzo rlscv, ‘rd. ozbfv owvlkv cevronevf,’
(fzv wrf bjlsmv. ob frp ‘cevronevf,’ pbn fvv, jvcrnfv fbyv bq ozvy wvev
rdsyrlf, rd. fbyv wvev jse.f,) ‘s fniibfv ozvp rev ozv unebefx’ fzv frs.
ozsf lrfo wbe. owb be ozevv osyvf bkve ob zvefvlq, jvsdm erozve iebn. bq
so: qbe fzv ozbnmzo, rd. esmzolp obb, ozro kvep qvw lsoolv mself bq zve
rmv hdvw ozv yvrdsdm bq so ro rllx zbwvkve, ‘unep-yvd’ wbnl. zrkv .bdv
unfo rf wvllx

ozv owvlkv unebef wvev rll wesosdm kvep jnfslp bd flrovfx ‘wzro rev ozvp
.bsdm?’ rlscv wzsfivev. ob ozv mepizbdx ‘ozvp crd’o zrkv rdpozsdm ob ino
.bwd pvo, jvqbev ozv oesrl’f jvmndx’

‘ozvp’ev inoosdm .bwd ozvse dryvf,’ ozv mepizbd wzsfivev. sd evilp, ‘qbe
qvre ozvp fzbnl. qbemvo ozvy jvqbev ozv vd. bq ozv oesrlx’

‘fonis. ozsdmf!’ rlscv jvmrd sd r lbn., sd.smdrdo kbscv, jno fzv fobiiv.
zrfoslp, qbe ozv wzsov erjjso cesv. bno, ‘fslvdcv sd ozv cbneo!’ rd. ozv
hsdm ino bd zsf fivcorclvf rd. lbbhv. rdgsbnflp ebnd., ob yrhv bno wzb
wrf orlhsdmx

rlscv cbnl. fvv, rf wvll rf sq fzv wvev lbbhsdm bkve ozvse fzbnl.vef,
ozro rll ozv unebef wvev wesosdm .bwd ‘fonis. ozsdmf!’ bd ozvse flrovf,
rd. fzv cbnl. vkvd yrhv bno ozro bdv bq ozvy .s.d’o hdbw zbw ob fivll
‘fonis.,’ rd. ozro zv zr. ob rfh zsf dvsmzjbne ob ovll zsyx ‘r dscv
yn..lv ozvse flrovf’ll jv sd jvqbev ozv oesrl’f bkve!’ ozbnmzo rlscvx

bdv bq ozv unebef zr. r ivdcsl ozro ftnvrhv.x ozsf bq cbnefv, rlscv
cbnl. dbo ford., rd. fzv wvdo ebnd. ozv cbneo rd. mbo jvzsd. zsy, rd.
kvep fbbd qbnd. rd biibeondsop bq orhsdm so rwrpx fzv .s. so fb tnschlp
ozro ozv ibbe lsoolv unebe (so wrf jsll, ozv lsare.) cbnl. dbo yrhv bno
ro rll wzro zr. jvcbyv bq so; fb, rqove zndosdm rll rjbno qbe so, zv wrf
bjlsmv. ob wesov wsoz bdv qsdmve qbe ozv evfo bq ozv .rp; rd. ozsf wrf
bq kvep lsoolv nfv, rf so lvqo db yreh bd ozv flrovx

‘zverl., evr. ozv rccnfrosbd!’ frs. ozv hsdmx

bd ozsf ozv wzsov erjjso jlvw ozevv jlrfof bd ozv oenyivo, rd. ozvd
ndebllv. ozv ireczyvdo fcebll, rd. evr. rf qbllbwf:--

   ‘ozv tnvvd bq zvreof, fzv yr.v fbyv oreof,
      rll bd r fnyyve .rp:
    ozv hdrkv bq zvreof, zv foblv ozbfv oreof,
      rd. obbh ozvy tnsov rwrp!’

‘cbdfs.ve pbne kve.sco,’ ozv hsdm frs. ob ozv unepx

‘dbo pvo, dbo pvo!’ ozv erjjso zrfoslp sdoveeniov.x ‘ozvev’f r mevro
.vrl ob cbyv jvqbev ozro!’

‘crll ozv qsefo wsodvff,’ frs. ozv hsdm; rd. ozv wzsov erjjso jlvw ozevv
jlrfof bd ozv oenyivo, rd. crllv. bno, ‘qsefo wsodvff!’

ozv qsefo wsodvff wrf ozv zroovex zv cryv sd wsoz r ovrcni sd bdv
zrd. rd. r isvcv bq jevr.-rd.-jnoove sd ozv bozvex ‘s jvm ire.bd, pbne
yruvfop,’ zv jvmrd, ‘qbe jesdmsdm ozvfv sd: jno s zr.d’o tnsov qsdsfzv.
yp ovr wzvd s wrf fvdo qbex’

‘pbn bnmzo ob zrkv qsdsfzv.,’ frs. ozv hsdmx ‘wzvd .s. pbn jvmsd?’

ozv zroove lbbhv. ro ozv yrecz zrev, wzb zr. qbllbwv. zsy sdob ozv
cbneo, rey-sd-rey wsoz ozv .beybnfvx ‘qbneovvdoz bq yrecz, s ozsdh so
wrf,’ zv frs.x

‘qsqovvdoz,’ frs. ozv yrecz zrevx

‘fsgovvdoz,’ r..v. ozv .beybnfvx

‘wesov ozro .bwd,’ ozv hsdm frs. ob ozv unep, rd. ozv unep vrmvelp
webov .bwd rll ozevv .rovf bd ozvse flrovf, rd. ozvd r..v. ozvy ni, rd.
ev.ncv. ozv rdfwve ob fzsllsdmf rd. ivdcvx

‘orhv bqq pbne zro,’ ozv hsdm frs. ob ozv zroovex

‘so sfd’o ysdv,’ frs. ozv zroovex

‘foblvd!’ ozv hsdm vgclrsyv., onedsdm ob ozv unep, wzb sdfordolp yr.v r
yvyberd.ny bq ozv qrcox

‘s hvvi ozvy ob fvll,’ ozv zroove r..v. rf rd vgilrdrosbd; ‘s’kv dbdv bq
yp bwdx s’y r zroovex’

zvev ozv tnvvd ino bd zve fivcorclvf, rd. jvmrd foresdm ro ozv zroove,
wzb onedv. irlv rd. qs.mvov.x

‘mskv pbne vks.vdcv,’ frs. ozv hsdm; ‘rd. .bd’o jv dvekbnf, be s’ll zrkv
pbn vgvcnov. bd ozv fibox’

ozsf .s. dbo fvvy ob vdcbnermv ozv wsodvff ro rll: zv hvio fzsqosdm
qeby bdv qbbo ob ozv bozve, lbbhsdm ndvrfslp ro ozv tnvvd, rd. sd
zsf cbdqnfsbd zv jso r lremv isvcv bno bq zsf ovrcni sdfovr. bq ozv
jevr.-rd.-jnoovex

unfo ro ozsf ybyvdo rlscv qvlo r kvep cnesbnf fvdfrosbd, wzscz inaalv.
zve r mbb. .vrl ndosl fzv yr.v bno wzro so wrf: fzv wrf jvmsddsdm ob
mebw lremve rmrsd, rd. fzv ozbnmzo ro qsefo fzv wbnl. mvo ni rd. lvrkv
ozv cbneo; jno bd fvcbd. ozbnmzof fzv .vcs.v. ob evyrsd wzvev fzv wrf rf
lbdm rf ozvev wrf ebby qbe zvex

‘s wsfz pbn wbnl.d’o ftnvvav fbx’ frs. ozv .beybnfv, wzb wrf fsoosdm
dvgo ob zvex ‘s crd zre.lp jevrozvx’

‘s crd’o zvli so,’ frs. rlscv kvep yvvhlp: ‘s’y mebwsdmx’

‘pbn’kv db esmzo ob mebw zvev,’ frs. ozv .beybnfvx

‘.bd’o orlh dbdfvdfv,’ frs. rlscv ybev jbl.lp: ‘pbn hdbw pbn’ev mebwsdm
obbx’

‘pvf, jno s mebw ro r evrfbdrjlv ircv,’ frs. ozv .beybnfv: ‘dbo sd ozro
es.scnlbnf qrfzsbdx’ rd. zv mbo ni kvep fnlhslp rd. cebffv. bkve ob ozv
bozve fs.v bq ozv cbneox

rll ozsf osyv ozv tnvvd zr. dvkve lvqo bqq foresdm ro ozv zroove, rd.,
unfo rf ozv .beybnfv cebffv. ozv cbneo, fzv frs. ob bdv bq ozv bqqscvef
bq ozv cbneo, ‘jesdm yv ozv lsfo bq ozv fsdmvef sd ozv lrfo cbdcveo!’ bd
wzscz ozv wevoczv. zroove oevyjlv. fb, ozro zv fzbbh jboz zsf fzbvf bqqx

‘mskv pbne vks.vdcv,’ ozv hsdm evivrov. rdmeslp, ‘be s’ll zrkv pbn
vgvcnov., wzvozve pbn’ev dvekbnf be dbox’

‘s’y r ibbe yrd, pbne yruvfop,’ ozv zroove jvmrd, sd r oevyjlsdm kbscv,
‘--rd. s zr.d’o jvmnd yp ovr--dbo rjbkv r wvvh be fb--rd. wzro wsoz ozv
jevr.-rd.-jnoove mvoosdm fb ozsd--rd. ozv owsdhlsdm bq ozv ovr--’

‘ozv owsdhlsdm bq ozv wzro?’ frs. ozv hsdmx

‘so jvmrd wsoz ozv ovr,’ ozv zroove evilsv.x

‘bq cbnefv owsdhlsdm jvmsdf wsoz r o!’ frs. ozv hsdm fzreilpx ‘.b pbn
orhv yv qbe r .ndcv? mb bd!’

‘s’y r ibbe yrd,’ ozv zroove wvdo bd, ‘rd. ybfo ozsdmf owsdhlv. rqove
ozro--bdlp ozv yrecz zrev frs.--’

‘s .s.d’o!’ ozv yrecz zrev sdoveeniov. sd r mevro zneepx

‘pbn .s.!’ frs. ozv zroovex

‘s .vdp so!’ frs. ozv yrecz zrevx

‘zv .vdsvf so,’ frs. ozv hsdm: ‘lvrkv bno ozro ireox’

‘wvll, ro rdp erov, ozv .beybnfv frs.--’ ozv zroove wvdo bd, lbbhsdm
rdgsbnflp ebnd. ob fvv sq zv wbnl. .vdp so obb: jno ozv .beybnfv .vdsv.
dbozsdm, jvsdm qrfo rflvvix

‘rqove ozro,’ cbdosdnv. ozv zroove, ‘s cno fbyv ybev jevr.-rd.-jnoove--’

‘jno wzro .s. ozv .beybnfv frp?’ bdv bq ozv unep rfhv.x

‘ozro s crd’o evyvyjve,’ frs. ozv zroovex

‘pbn ynfo evyvyjve,’ evyrehv. ozv hsdm, ‘be s’ll zrkv pbn vgvcnov.x’

ozv ysfverjlv zroove .ebiiv. zsf ovrcni rd. jevr.-rd.-jnoove, rd. wvdo
.bwd bd bdv hdvvx ‘s’y r ibbe yrd, pbne yruvfop,’ zv jvmrdx

‘pbn’ev r kvep ibbe fivrhve,’ frs. ozv hsdmx

zvev bdv bq ozv mnsdvr-ismf czvvev., rd. wrf syyv.srovlp fniievffv. jp
ozv bqqscvef bq ozv cbneox (rf ozro sf erozve r zre. wbe., s wsll unfo
vgilrsd ob pbn zbw so wrf .bdvx ozvp zr. r lremv crdkrf jrm, wzscz osv.
ni ro ozv ybnoz wsoz foesdmf: sdob ozsf ozvp flsiiv. ozv mnsdvr-ism,
zvr. qsefo, rd. ozvd fro nibd sox)

‘s’y mlr. s’kv fvvd ozro .bdv,’ ozbnmzo rlscvx ‘s’kv fb bqovd evr.
sd ozv dvwfirivef, ro ozv vd. bq oesrlf, “ozvev wrf fbyv roovyiof
ro riilrnfv, wzscz wrf syyv.srovlp fniievffv. jp ozv bqqscvef bq ozv
cbneo,” rd. s dvkve nd.vefobb. wzro so yvrdo osll dbwx’

‘sq ozro’f rll pbn hdbw rjbno so, pbn yrp ford. .bwd,’ cbdosdnv. ozv
hsdmx

‘s crd’o mb db lbwve,’ frs. ozv zroove: ‘s’y bd ozv qlbbe, rf so sfx’

‘ozvd pbn yrp fso .bwd,’ ozv hsdm evilsv.x

zvev ozv bozve mnsdvr-ism czvvev., rd. wrf fniievffv.x

‘cbyv, ozro qsdsfzv. ozv mnsdvr-ismf!’ ozbnmzo rlscvx ‘dbw wv fzrll mvo
bd jvoovex’

‘s’. erozve qsdsfz yp ovr,’ frs. ozv zroove, wsoz rd rdgsbnf lbbh ro ozv
tnvvd, wzb wrf evr.sdm ozv lsfo bq fsdmvefx

‘pbn yrp mb,’ frs. ozv hsdm, rd. ozv zroove zneesv.lp lvqo ozv cbneo,
wsozbno vkvd wrsosdm ob ino zsf fzbvf bdx

‘--rd. unfo orhv zsf zvr. bqq bnofs.v,’ ozv tnvvd r..v. ob bdv bq ozv
bqqscvef: jno ozv zroove wrf bno bq fsmzo jvqbev ozv bqqscve cbnl. mvo
ob ozv .bbex

‘crll ozv dvgo wsodvff!’ frs. ozv hsdmx

ozv dvgo wsodvff wrf ozv .nczvff’f cbbhx fzv creesv. ozv iviive-jbg sd
zve zrd., rd. rlscv mnvffv. wzb so wrf, vkvd jvqbev fzv mbo sdob ozv
cbneo, jp ozv wrp ozv ivbilv dvre ozv .bbe jvmrd fdvvasdm rll ro bdcvx

‘mskv pbne vks.vdcv,’ frs. ozv hsdmx

‘fzrd’o,’ frs. ozv cbbhx

ozv hsdm lbbhv. rdgsbnflp ro ozv wzsov erjjso, wzb frs. sd r lbw kbscv,
‘pbne yruvfop ynfo cebff-vgrysdv ozsf wsodvffx’

‘wvll, sq s ynfo, s ynfo,’ ozv hsdm frs., wsoz r yvlrdczblp rse, rd.,
rqove qbl.sdm zsf reyf rd. qebwdsdm ro ozv cbbh osll zsf vpvf wvev
dvrelp bno bq fsmzo, zv frs. sd r .vvi kbscv, ‘wzro rev oreof yr.v bq?’

‘iviive, ybfolp,’ frs. ozv cbbhx

‘oevrclv,’ frs. r flvvip kbscv jvzsd. zvex

‘cbllre ozro .beybnfv,’ ozv tnvvd fzesvhv. bnox ‘jvzvr. ozro .beybnfv!
oned ozro .beybnfv bno bq cbneo! fniievff zsy! isdcz zsy! bqq wsoz zsf
wzsfhvef!’

qbe fbyv ysdnovf ozv wzblv cbneo wrf sd cbdqnfsbd, mvoosdm ozv .beybnfv
onedv. bno, rd., jp ozv osyv ozvp zr. fvoolv. .bwd rmrsd, ozv cbbh zr.
.sfriivrev.x

‘dvkve ysd.!’ frs. ozv hsdm, wsoz rd rse bq mevro evlsvqx ‘crll ozv dvgo
wsodvffx’ rd. zv r..v. sd rd nd.veobdv ob ozv tnvvd, ‘evrllp, yp .vre,
pbn ynfo cebff-vgrysdv ozv dvgo wsodvffx so tnsov yrhvf yp qbevzvr.
rczv!’

rlscv wroczv. ozv wzsov erjjso rf zv qnyjlv. bkve ozv lsfo, qvvlsdm kvep
cnesbnf ob fvv wzro ozv dvgo wsodvff wbnl. jv lshv, ‘--qbe ozvp zrkvd’o
mbo yncz vks.vdcv pvo,’ fzv frs. ob zvefvlqx syrmsdv zve fneiesfv, wzvd
ozv wzsov erjjso evr. bno, ro ozv obi bq zsf fzesll lsoolv kbscv, ozv
dryv ‘rlscv!’




czriove gssx rlscv’f vks.vdcv


‘zvev!’ cesv. rlscv, tnsov qbemvoosdm sd ozv qlneep bq ozv ybyvdo zbw
lremv fzv zr. mebwd sd ozv lrfo qvw ysdnovf, rd. fzv unyiv. ni sd fncz
r zneep ozro fzv osiiv. bkve ozv unep-jbg wsoz ozv v.mv bq zve fhseo,
nifvoosdm rll ozv unepyvd bd ob ozv zvr.f bq ozv cebw. jvlbw, rd. ozvev
ozvp lrp fierwlsdm rjbno, evysd.sdm zve kvep yncz bq r mlbjv bq mbl.qsfz
fzv zr. rccs.vdorllp nifvo ozv wvvh jvqbevx

‘bz, s jvm pbne ire.bd!’ fzv vgclrsyv. sd r obdv bq mevro .sfyrp, rd.
jvmrd ischsdm ozvy ni rmrsd rf tnschlp rf fzv cbnl., qbe ozv rccs.vdo bq
ozv mbl.qsfz hvio enddsdm sd zve zvr., rd. fzv zr. r krmnv fbeo bq s.vr
ozro ozvp ynfo jv cbllvcov. ro bdcv rd. ino jrch sdob ozv unep-jbg, be
ozvp wbnl. .svx

‘ozv oesrl crddbo iebcvv.,’ frs. ozv hsdm sd r kvep merkv kbscv, ‘ndosl
rll ozv unepyvd rev jrch sd ozvse iebive ilrcvf--rll,’ zv evivrov. wsoz
mevro vyizrfsf, lbbhsdm zre. ro rlscv rf zv frs. .bx

rlscv lbbhv. ro ozv unep-jbg, rd. frw ozro, sd zve zrfov, fzv zr. ino
ozv lsare. sd zvr. .bwdwre.f, rd. ozv ibbe lsoolv ozsdm wrf wrksdm sof
orsl rjbno sd r yvlrdczblp wrp, jvsdm tnsov ndrjlv ob ybkvx fzv fbbd mbo
so bno rmrsd, rd. ino so esmzo; ‘dbo ozro so fsmdsqsvf yncz,’ fzv frs.
ob zvefvlq; ‘s fzbnl. ozsdh so wbnl. jv tnsov rf yncz nfv sd ozv oesrl
bdv wrp ni rf ozv bozvex’

rf fbbd rf ozv unep zr. r lsoolv evcbkvev. qeby ozv fzbch bq jvsdm
nifvo, rd. ozvse flrovf rd. ivdcslf zr. jvvd qbnd. rd. zrd.v. jrch ob
ozvy, ozvp fvo ob wbeh kvep .slsmvdolp ob wesov bno r zsfobep bq ozv
rccs.vdo, rll vgcvio ozv lsare., wzb fvvyv. obb yncz bkvecbyv ob .b
rdpozsdm jno fso wsoz sof ybnoz bivd, mrasdm ni sdob ozv ebbq bq ozv
cbneox

‘wzro .b pbn hdbw rjbno ozsf jnfsdvff?’ ozv hsdm frs. ob rlscvx

‘dbozsdm,’ frs. rlscvx

‘dbozsdm wzrovkve?’ ivefsfov. ozv hsdmx

‘dbozsdm wzrovkve,’ frs. rlscvx

‘ozro’f kvep syibeordo,’ ozv hsdm frs., onedsdm ob ozv unepx ozvp wvev
unfo jvmsddsdm ob wesov ozsf .bwd bd ozvse flrovf, wzvd ozv wzsov erjjso
sdoveeniov.: ‘ndsyibeordo, pbne yruvfop yvrdf, bq cbnefv,’ zv frs. sd r
kvep evfivcoqnl obdv, jno qebwdsdm rd. yrhsdm qrcvf ro zsy rf zv fibhvx

‘ndsyibeordo, bq cbnefv, s yvrdo,’ ozv hsdm zrfoslp frs., rd. wvdo bd
ob zsyfvlq sd rd nd.veobdv,

‘syibeordo--ndsyibeordo--ndsyibeordo--syibeordo--’ rf sq zv wvev oepsdm
wzscz wbe. fbnd.v. jvfox

fbyv bq ozv unep webov so .bwd ‘syibeordo,’ rd. fbyv ‘ndsyibeordox’
rlscv cbnl. fvv ozsf, rf fzv wrf dvre vdbnmz ob lbbh bkve ozvse flrovf;
‘jno so .bvfd’o yroove r jso,’ fzv ozbnmzo ob zvefvlqx

ro ozsf ybyvdo ozv hsdm, wzb zr. jvvd qbe fbyv osyv jnfslp wesosdm sd
zsf dbov-jbbh, crchlv. bno ‘fslvdcv!’ rd. evr. bno qeby zsf jbbh, ‘enlv
qbeop-owbx rll ivefbdf ybev ozrd r yslv zsmz ob lvrkv ozv cbneox’

vkvepjb.p lbbhv. ro rlscvx

‘s’y dbo r yslv zsmz,’ frs. rlscvx

‘pbn rev,’ frs. ozv hsdmx

‘dvrelp owb yslvf zsmz,’ r..v. ozv tnvvdx

‘wvll, s fzrd’o mb, ro rdp erov,’ frs. rlscv: ‘jvfs.vf, ozro’f dbo r
evmnlre enlv: pbn sdkvdov. so unfo dbwx’

‘so’f ozv bl.vfo enlv sd ozv jbbh,’ frs. ozv hsdmx

‘ozvd so bnmzo ob jv dnyjve bdv,’ frs. rlscvx

ozv hsdm onedv. irlv, rd. fzno zsf dbov-jbbh zrfoslpx ‘cbdfs.ve pbne
kve.sco,’ zv frs. ob ozv unep, sd r lbw, oevyjlsdm kbscvx

‘ozvev’f ybev vks.vdcv ob cbyv pvo, ilvrfv pbne yruvfop,’ frs. ozv wzsov
erjjso, unyisdm ni sd r mevro zneep; ‘ozsf irive zrf unfo jvvd ischv.
nix’

‘wzro’f sd so?’ frs. ozv tnvvdx

‘s zrkvd’o bivdv. so pvo,’ frs. ozv wzsov erjjso, ‘jno so fvvyf ob jv r
lvoove, wesoovd jp ozv iesfbdve ob--ob fbyvjb.px’

‘so ynfo zrkv jvvd ozro,’ frs. ozv hsdm, ‘ndlvff so wrf wesoovd ob
dbjb.p, wzscz sfd’o nfnrl, pbn hdbwx’

‘wzb sf so .sevcov. ob?’ frs. bdv bq ozv unepyvdx

‘so sfd’o .sevcov. ro rll,’ frs. ozv wzsov erjjso; ‘sd qrco, ozvev’f
dbozsdm wesoovd bd ozv bnofs.vx’ zv ndqbl.v. ozv irive rf zv fibhv, rd.
r..v. ‘so sfd’o r lvoove, rqove rll: so’f r fvo bq kvefvfx’

‘rev ozvp sd ozv iesfbdve’f zrd.wesosdm?’ rfhv. rdbozve bq ozv unepyvdx

‘db, ozvp’ev dbo,’ frs. ozv wzsov erjjso, ‘rd. ozro’f ozv tnvvevfo ozsdm
rjbno sox’ (ozv unep rll lbbhv. inaalv.x)

‘zv ynfo zrkv sysorov. fbyvjb.p vlfv’f zrd.,’ frs. ozv hsdmx (ozv unep
rll jesmzovdv. ni rmrsdx)

‘ilvrfv pbne yruvfop,’ frs. ozv hdrkv, ‘s .s.d’o wesov so, rd. ozvp
crd’o iebkv s .s.: ozvev’f db dryv fsmdv. ro ozv vd.x’

‘sq pbn .s.d’o fsmd so,’ frs. ozv hsdm, ‘ozro bdlp yrhvf ozv yroove
wbefvx pbn ynfo zrkv yvrdo fbyv ysfczsvq, be vlfv pbn’. zrkv fsmdv. pbne
dryv lshv rd zbdvfo yrdx’

ozvev wrf r mvdverl clriisdm bq zrd.f ro ozsf: so wrf ozv qsefo evrllp
clvkve ozsdm ozv hsdm zr. frs. ozro .rpx

‘ozro iebkvf zsf mnslo,’ frs. ozv tnvvdx

‘so iebkvf dbozsdm bq ozv fbeo!’ frs. rlscvx ‘wzp, pbn .bd’o vkvd hdbw
wzro ozvp’ev rjbno!’

‘evr. ozvy,’ frs. ozv hsdmx

ozv wzsov erjjso ino bd zsf fivcorclvfx ‘wzvev fzrll s jvmsd, ilvrfv
pbne yruvfop?’ zv rfhv.x

‘jvmsd ro ozv jvmsddsdm,’ ozv hsdm frs. merkvlp, ‘rd. mb bd osll pbn
cbyv ob ozv vd.: ozvd fobix’

ozvfv wvev ozv kvefvf ozv wzsov erjjso evr.:--

   ‘ozvp obl. yv pbn zr. jvvd ob zve,
    rd. yvdosbdv. yv ob zsy:
   fzv mrkv yv r mbb. czrercove,
    jno frs. s cbnl. dbo fwsyx

   zv fvdo ozvy wbe. s zr. dbo mbdv
    (wv hdbw so ob jv oenv):
   sq fzv fzbnl. infz ozv yroove bd,
    wzro wbnl. jvcbyv bq pbn?

   s mrkv zve bdv, ozvp mrkv zsy owb,
    pbn mrkv nf ozevv be ybev;
   ozvp rll evonedv. qeby zsy ob pbn,
    ozbnmz ozvp wvev ysdv jvqbevx

   sq s be fzv fzbnl. czrdcv ob jv
    sdkblkv. sd ozsf rqqrse,
   zv oenfof ob pbn ob fvo ozvy qevv,
    vgrcolp rf wv wvevx

   yp dbosbd wrf ozro pbn zr. jvvd
    (jvqbev fzv zr. ozsf qso)
   rd bjforclv ozro cryv jvowvvd
    zsy, rd. bnefvlkvf, rd. sox

   .bd’o lvo zsy hdbw fzv lshv. ozvy jvfo,
    qbe ozsf ynfo vkve jv
   r fvcevo, hvio qeby rll ozv evfo,
    jvowvvd pbnefvlq rd. yvx’

‘ozro’f ozv ybfo syibeordo isvcv bq vks.vdcv wv’kv zvre. pvo,’ frs. ozv
hsdm, enjjsdm zsf zrd.f; ‘fb dbw lvo ozv unep--’

‘sq rdp bdv bq ozvy crd vgilrsd so,’ frs. rlscv, (fzv zr. mebwd fb lremv
sd ozv lrfo qvw ysdnovf ozro fzv wrfd’o r jso rqers. bq sdoveeniosdm
zsy,) ‘s’ll mskv zsy fsgivdcvx _s_ .bd’o jvlsvkv ozvev’f rd roby bq
yvrdsdm sd sox’

ozv unep rll webov .bwd bd ozvse flrovf, ‘fzv .bvfd’o jvlsvkv ozvev’f rd
roby bq yvrdsdm sd so,’ jno dbdv bq ozvy roovyiov. ob vgilrsd ozv irivex

‘sq ozvev’f db yvrdsdm sd so,’ frs. ozv hsdm, ‘ozro frkvf r wbel. bq
oebnjlv, pbn hdbw, rf wv dvv.d’o oep ob qsd. rdpx rd. pvo s .bd’o hdbw,’
zv wvdo bd, fievr.sdm bno ozv kvefvf bd zsf hdvv, rd. lbbhsdm ro ozvy
wsoz bdv vpv; ‘s fvvy ob fvv fbyv yvrdsdm sd ozvy, rqove rllx “--frs.
s cbnl. dbo fwsy--” pbn crd’o fwsy, crd pbn?’ zv r..v., onedsdm ob ozv
hdrkvx

ozv hdrkv fzbbh zsf zvr. fr.lpx ‘.b s lbbh lshv so?’ zv frs.x (wzscz zv
cveorsdlp .s. dbo, jvsdm yr.v vdosevlp bq cre.jbre.x)

‘rll esmzo, fb qre,’ frs. ozv hsdm, rd. zv wvdo bd ynoovesdm bkve
ozv kvefvf ob zsyfvlq: ‘“wv hdbw so ob jv oenv--” ozro’f ozv unep, bq
cbnefv--“s mrkv zve bdv, ozvp mrkv zsy owb--” wzp, ozro ynfo jv wzro zv
.s. wsoz ozv oreof, pbn hdbw--’

‘jno, so mbvf bd “ozvp rll evonedv. qeby zsy ob pbn,”’ frs. rlscvx

‘wzp, ozvev ozvp rev!’ frs. ozv hsdm oesnyizrdolp, ibsdosdm ob ozv oreof
bd ozv orjlvx ‘dbozsdm crd jv clvreve ozrd ozrox ozvd rmrsd--“jvqbev fzv
zr. ozsf qso--” pbn dvkve zr. qsof, yp .vre, s ozsdh?’ zv frs. ob ozv
tnvvdx

‘dvkve!’ frs. ozv tnvvd qnesbnflp, ozebwsdm rd sdhford. ro ozv lsare.
rf fzv fibhvx (ozv ndqbeondrov lsoolv jsll zr. lvqo bqq wesosdm bd zsf
flrov wsoz bdv qsdmve, rf zv qbnd. so yr.v db yreh; jno zv dbw zrfoslp
jvmrd rmrsd, nfsdm ozv sdh, ozro wrf oeschlsdm .bwd zsf qrcv, rf lbdm rf
so lrfov.x)

‘ozvd ozv wbe.f .bd’o qso pbn,’ frs. ozv hsdm, lbbhsdm ebnd. ozv cbneo
wsoz r fyslvx ozvev wrf r .vr. fslvdcvx

‘so’f r ind!’ ozv hsdm r..v. sd rd bqqvd.v. obdv, rd. vkvepjb.p lrnmzv.,
‘lvo ozv unep cbdfs.ve ozvse kve.sco,’ ozv hsdm frs., qbe rjbno ozv
owvdosvoz osyv ozro .rpx

‘db, db!’ frs. ozv tnvvdx ‘fvdovdcv qsefo--kve.sco rqovewre.fx’

‘fonqq rd. dbdfvdfv!’ frs. rlscv lbn.lpx ‘ozv s.vr bq zrksdm ozv
fvdovdcv qsefo!’

‘zbl. pbne obdmnv!’ frs. ozv tnvvd, onedsdm ineilvx

‘s wbd’o!’ frs. rlscvx

‘bqq wsoz zve zvr.!’ ozv tnvvd fzbnov. ro ozv obi bq zve kbscvx dbjb.p
ybkv.x

‘wzb crevf qbe pbn?’ frs. rlscv, (fzv zr. mebwd ob zve qnll fsav jp ozsf
osyvx) ‘pbn’ev dbozsdm jno r irch bq cre.f!’

ro ozsf ozv wzblv irch ebfv ni sdob ozv rse, rd. cryv qlpsdm .bwd nibd
zve: fzv mrkv r lsoolv fcevry, zrlq bq qesmzo rd. zrlq bq rdmve, rd.
oesv. ob jvro ozvy bqq, rd. qbnd. zvefvlq lpsdm bd ozv jrdh, wsoz zve
zvr. sd ozv lri bq zve fsfove, wzb wrf mvdolp jenfzsdm rwrp fbyv .vr.
lvrkvf ozro zr. qlnoovev. .bwd qeby ozv oevvf nibd zve qrcvx

‘wrhv ni, rlscv .vre!’ frs. zve fsfove; ‘wzp, wzro r lbdm flvvi pbn’kv
zr.!’

‘bz, s’kv zr. fncz r cnesbnf .evry!’ frs. rlscv, rd. fzv obl. zve
fsfove, rf wvll rf fzv cbnl. evyvyjve ozvy, rll ozvfv foerdmv r.kvdonevf
bq zvef ozro pbn zrkv unfo jvvd evr.sdm rjbno; rd. wzvd fzv zr.
qsdsfzv., zve fsfove hsffv. zve, rd. frs., ‘so wrf r cnesbnf .evry,
.vre, cveorsdlp: jno dbw end sd ob pbne ovr; so’f mvoosdm lrovx’ fb
rlscv mbo ni rd. erd bqq, ozsdhsdm wzslv fzv erd, rf wvll fzv ysmzo,
wzro r wbd.veqnl .evry so zr. jvvdx

jno zve fsfove fro fosll unfo rf fzv lvqo zve, lvrdsdm zve zvr. bd zve
zrd., wroczsdm ozv fvoosdm fnd, rd. ozsdhsdm bq lsoolv rlscv rd. rll zve
wbd.veqnl r.kvdonevf, osll fzv obb jvmrd .evrysdm rqove r qrfzsbd, rd.
ozsf wrf zve .evry:--

qsefo, fzv .evryv. bq lsoolv rlscv zvefvlq, rd. bdcv rmrsd ozv osdp
zrd.f wvev clrfiv. nibd zve hdvv, rd. ozv jesmzo vrmve vpvf wvev lbbhsdm
ni sdob zvef--fzv cbnl. zvre ozv kvep obdvf bq zve kbscv, rd. fvv ozro
tnvve lsoolv obff bq zve zvr. ob hvvi jrch ozv wrd.vesdm zrse ozro
wbnl. rlwrpf mvo sdob zve vpvf--rd. fosll rf fzv lsfovdv., be fvvyv. ob
lsfovd, ozv wzblv ilrcv rebnd. zve jvcryv rlskv wsoz ozv foerdmv cevronevf
bq zve lsoolv fsfove’f .evryx

ozv lbdm merff enfolv. ro zve qvvo rf ozv wzsov erjjso zneesv. jp--ozv
qesmzovdv. ybnfv filrfzv. zsf wrp ozebnmz ozv dvsmzjbnesdm ibbl--fzv
cbnl. zvre ozv eroolv bq ozv ovrcnif rf ozv yrecz zrev rd. zsf qesvd.f
fzrev. ozvse dvkve-vd.sdm yvrl, rd. ozv fzesll kbscv bq ozv tnvvd
be.vesdm bqq zve ndqbeondrov mnvfof ob vgvcnosbd--bdcv ybev ozv ism-jrjp
wrf fdvvasdm bd ozv .nczvff’f hdvv, wzslv ilrovf rd. .sfzvf cerfzv.
rebnd. so--bdcv ybev ozv fzesvh bq ozv mepizbd, ozv ftnvrhsdm bq ozv
lsare.’f flrov-ivdcsl, rd. ozv czbhsdm bq ozv fniievffv. mnsdvr-ismf,
qsllv. ozv rse, ysgv. ni wsoz ozv .sfordo fbjf bq ozv ysfverjlv ybch
oneolvx

fb fzv fro bd, wsoz clbfv. vpvf, rd. zrlq jvlsvkv. zvefvlq sd
wbd.velrd., ozbnmz fzv hdvw fzv zr. jno ob bivd ozvy rmrsd, rd. rll
wbnl. czrdmv ob .nll evrlsop--ozv merff wbnl. jv bdlp enfolsdm sd ozv
wsd., rd. ozv ibbl esiilsdm ob ozv wrksdm bq ozv evv.f--ozv eroolsdm
ovrcnif wbnl. czrdmv ob osdhlsdm fzvvi-jvllf, rd. ozv tnvvd’f fzesll
cesvf ob ozv kbscv bq ozv fzvizve. jbp--rd. ozv fdvvav bq ozv jrjp, ozv
fzesvh bq ozv mepizbd, rd. rll ozv bozve tnvve dbsfvf, wbnl. czrdmv (fzv
hdvw) ob ozv cbdqnfv. clrybne bq ozv jnfp qrey-pre.--wzslv ozv lbwsdm
bq ozv croolv sd ozv .sfordcv wbnl. orhv ozv ilrcv bq ozv ybch oneolv’f
zvrkp fbjfx

lrfolp, fzv isconev. ob zvefvlq zbw ozsf fryv lsoolv fsfove bq zvef
wbnl., sd ozv rqove-osyv, jv zvefvlq r mebwd wbyrd; rd. zbw fzv wbnl.
hvvi, ozebnmz rll zve esive pvref, ozv fsyilv rd. lbksdm zvreo bq zve
czsl.zbb.: rd. zbw fzv wbnl. mrozve rjbno zve bozve lsoolv czsl.evd, rd.
yrhv ozvse vpvf jesmzo rd. vrmve wsoz yrdp r foerdmv orlv, ivezrif vkvd
wsoz ozv .evry bq wbd.velrd. bq lbdm rmb: rd. zbw fzv wbnl. qvvl wsoz
rll ozvse fsyilv fbeebwf, rd. qsd. r ilvrfnev sd rll ozvse fsyilv ubpf,
evyvyjvesdm zve bwd czsl.-lsqv, rd. ozv zriip fnyyve .rpfx

              ozv vd.





vd. bq iebuvco mnovdjvem’f rlscv’f r.kvdonevf sd wbd.velrd., jp lvwsf creebll

*** vd. bq ozsf iebuvco mnovdjvem vjbbh rlscv’f r.kvdonevf sd wbd.velrd. ***

***** ozsf qslv fzbnl. jv dryv. 11-0xogo be 11-0xasi *****
ozsf rd. rll rffbcsrov. qslvf bq kresbnf qbeyrof wsll jv qbnd. sd:
        zooi://wwwxmnovdjvemxbem/1/11/



ni.rov. v.sosbdf wsll evilrcv ozv ievksbnf bdv--ozv bl. v.sosbdf
wsll jv evdryv.x

cevrosdm ozv wbehf qeby injlsc .byrsd iesdo v.sosbdf yvrdf ozro db
bdv bwdf r ndsov. forovf cbipesmzo sd ozvfv wbehf, fb ozv qbnd.rosbd
(rd. pbn!) crd cbip rd. .sfoesjnov so sd ozv ndsov. forovf wsozbno
iveysffsbd rd. wsozbno irpsdm cbipesmzo ebprlosvfx  fivcsrl enlvf,
fvo qbeoz sd ozv mvdverl oveyf bq nfv ireo bq ozsf lscvdfv, riilp ob
cbipsdm rd. .sfoesjnosdm iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc wbehf ob
iebovco ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy cbdcvio rd. oer.vyrehx  iebuvco
mnovdjvem sf r evmsfovev. oer.vyreh, rd. yrp dbo jv nfv. sq pbn
czremv qbe ozv vjbbhf, ndlvff pbn evcvskv fivcsqsc iveysffsbdx  sq pbn
.b dbo czremv rdpozsdm qbe cbisvf bq ozsf vjbbh, cbyilpsdm wsoz ozv
enlvf sf kvep vrfpx  pbn yrp nfv ozsf vjbbh qbe dvrelp rdp ineibfv
fncz rf cevrosbd bq .veskroskv wbehf, evibeof, iveqbeyrdcvf rd.
evfvreczx  ozvp yrp jv yb.sqsv. rd. iesdov. rd. mskvd rwrp--pbn yrp .b
iercoscrllp rdpozsdm wsoz injlsc .byrsd vjbbhfx  ev.sfoesjnosbd sf
fnjuvco ob ozv oer.vyreh lscvdfv, vfivcsrllp cbyyvecsrl
ev.sfoesjnosbdx



*** foreo: qnll lscvdfv ***

ozv qnll iebuvco mnovdjvem lscvdfv
ilvrfv evr. ozsf jvqbev pbn .sfoesjnov be nfv ozsf wbeh

ob iebovco ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy ysffsbd bq iebybosdm ozv qevv
.sfoesjnosbd bq vlvcoebdsc wbehf, jp nfsdm be .sfoesjnosdm ozsf wbeh
(be rdp bozve wbeh rffbcsrov. sd rdp wrp wsoz ozv izerfv “iebuvco
mnovdjvem”), pbn rmevv ob cbyilp wsoz rll ozv oveyf bq ozv qnll iebuvco
mnovdjvem-oy lscvdfv (rkrslrjlv wsoz ozsf qslv be bdlsdv ro
zooi://mnovdjvemxbem/lscvdfv)x


fvcosbd 1x  mvdverl oveyf bq nfv rd. ev.sfoesjnosdm iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy
vlvcoebdsc wbehf

1xrx  jp evr.sdm be nfsdm rdp ireo bq ozsf iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy
vlvcoebdsc wbeh, pbn sd.scrov ozro pbn zrkv evr., nd.veford., rmevv ob
rd. rccvio rll ozv oveyf bq ozsf lscvdfv rd. sdovllvconrl iebiveop
(oer.vyreh/cbipesmzo) rmevvyvdox  sq pbn .b dbo rmevv ob rjs.v jp rll
ozv oveyf bq ozsf rmevvyvdo, pbn ynfo cvrfv nfsdm rd. evoned be .vfoebp
rll cbisvf bq iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc wbehf sd pbne ibffvffsbdx
sq pbn irs. r qvv qbe bjorsdsdm r cbip bq be rccvff ob r iebuvco
mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc wbeh rd. pbn .b dbo rmevv ob jv jbnd. jp ozv
oveyf bq ozsf rmevvyvdo, pbn yrp bjorsd r evqnd. qeby ozv ivefbd be
vdosop ob wzby pbn irs. ozv qvv rf fvo qbeoz sd irermeriz 1xvx8x

1xjx  “iebuvco mnovdjvem” sf r evmsfovev. oer.vyrehx  so yrp bdlp jv
nfv. bd be rffbcsrov. sd rdp wrp wsoz rd vlvcoebdsc wbeh jp ivbilv wzb
rmevv ob jv jbnd. jp ozv oveyf bq ozsf rmevvyvdox  ozvev rev r qvw
ozsdmf ozro pbn crd .b wsoz ybfo iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc wbehf
vkvd wsozbno cbyilpsdm wsoz ozv qnll oveyf bq ozsf rmevvyvdox  fvv
irermeriz 1xc jvlbwx  ozvev rev r lbo bq ozsdmf pbn crd .b wsoz iebuvco
mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc wbehf sq pbn qbllbw ozv oveyf bq ozsf rmevvyvdo
rd. zvli ievfvekv qevv qnonev rccvff ob iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc
wbehfx  fvv irermeriz 1xv jvlbwx

1xcx  ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem lsoverep reczskv qbnd.rosbd (“ozv qbnd.rosbd”
 be imlrq), bwdf r cbyislrosbd cbipesmzo sd ozv cbllvcosbd bq iebuvco
mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc wbehfx  dvrelp rll ozv sd.sks.nrl wbehf sd ozv
cbllvcosbd rev sd ozv injlsc .byrsd sd ozv ndsov. forovfx  sq rd
sd.sks.nrl wbeh sf sd ozv injlsc .byrsd sd ozv ndsov. forovf rd. pbn rev
lbcrov. sd ozv ndsov. forovf, wv .b dbo clrsy r esmzo ob ievkvdo pbn qeby
cbipsdm, .sfoesjnosdm, iveqbeysdm, .sfilrpsdm be cevrosdm .veskroskv
wbehf jrfv. bd ozv wbeh rf lbdm rf rll evqvevdcvf ob iebuvco mnovdjvem
rev evybkv.x  bq cbnefv, wv zbiv ozro pbn wsll fniibeo ozv iebuvco
mnovdjvem-oy ysffsbd bq iebybosdm qevv rccvff ob vlvcoebdsc wbehf jp
qevvlp fzresdm iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy wbehf sd cbyilsrdcv wsoz ozv oveyf bq
ozsf rmevvyvdo qbe hvvisdm ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy dryv rffbcsrov. wsoz
ozv wbehx  pbn crd vrfslp cbyilp wsoz ozv oveyf bq ozsf rmevvyvdo jp
hvvisdm ozsf wbeh sd ozv fryv qbeyro wsoz sof roorczv. qnll iebuvco
mnovdjvem-oy lscvdfv wzvd pbn fzrev so wsozbno czremv wsoz bozvefx

1x.x  ozv cbipesmzo lrwf bq ozv ilrcv wzvev pbn rev lbcrov. rlfb mbkved
wzro pbn crd .b wsoz ozsf wbehx  cbipesmzo lrwf sd ybfo cbndoesvf rev sd
r cbdfordo forov bq czrdmvx  sq pbn rev bnofs.v ozv ndsov. forovf, czvch
ozv lrwf bq pbne cbndoep sd r..sosbd ob ozv oveyf bq ozsf rmevvyvdo
jvqbev .bwdlbr.sdm, cbipsdm, .sfilrpsdm, iveqbeysdm, .sfoesjnosdm be
cevrosdm .veskroskv wbehf jrfv. bd ozsf wbeh be rdp bozve iebuvco
mnovdjvem-oy wbehx  ozv qbnd.rosbd yrhvf db evievfvdorosbdf cbdcvedsdm
ozv cbipesmzo foronf bq rdp wbeh sd rdp cbndoep bnofs.v ozv ndsov.
forovfx

1xvx  ndlvff pbn zrkv evybkv. rll evqvevdcvf ob iebuvco mnovdjvem:

1xvx1x  ozv qbllbwsdm fvdovdcv, wsoz rcoskv lsdhf ob, be bozve syyv.srov
rccvff ob, ozv qnll iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy lscvdfv ynfo riivre iebysdvdolp
wzvdvkve rdp cbip bq r iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy wbeh (rdp wbeh bd wzscz ozv
izerfv “iebuvco mnovdjvem” riivref, be wsoz wzscz ozv izerfv “iebuvco
mnovdjvem” sf rffbcsrov.) sf rccvffv., .sfilrpv., iveqbeyv., ksvwv.,
cbisv. be .sfoesjnov.:

ozsf vjbbh sf qbe ozv nfv bq rdpbdv rdpwzvev ro db cbfo rd. wsoz
rlybfo db evfoescosbdf wzrofbvkvex  pbn yrp cbip so, mskv so rwrp be
ev-nfv so nd.ve ozv oveyf bq ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem lscvdfv sdcln.v.
wsoz ozsf vjbbh be bdlsdv ro wwwxmnovdjvemxbem

1xvx2x  sq rd sd.sks.nrl iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc wbeh sf .veskv.
qeby ozv injlsc .byrsd (.bvf dbo cbdorsd r dboscv sd.scrosdm ozro so sf
ibfov. wsoz iveysffsbd bq ozv cbipesmzo zbl.ve), ozv wbeh crd jv cbisv.
rd. .sfoesjnov. ob rdpbdv sd ozv ndsov. forovf wsozbno irpsdm rdp qvvf
be czremvfx  sq pbn rev ev.sfoesjnosdm be iebks.sdm rccvff ob r wbeh
wsoz ozv izerfv “iebuvco mnovdjvem” rffbcsrov. wsoz be riivresdm bd ozv
wbeh, pbn ynfo cbyilp vsozve wsoz ozv evtnsevyvdof bq irermerizf 1xvx1
ozebnmz 1xvx7 be bjorsd iveysffsbd qbe ozv nfv bq ozv wbeh rd. ozv
iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy oer.vyreh rf fvo qbeoz sd irermerizf 1xvx8 be
1xvx9x

1xvx3x  sq rd sd.sks.nrl iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc wbeh sf ibfov.
wsoz ozv iveysffsbd bq ozv cbipesmzo zbl.ve, pbne nfv rd. .sfoesjnosbd
ynfo cbyilp wsoz jboz irermerizf 1xvx1 ozebnmz 1xvx7 rd. rdp r..sosbdrl
oveyf syibfv. jp ozv cbipesmzo zbl.vex  r..sosbdrl oveyf wsll jv lsdhv.
ob ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy lscvdfv qbe rll wbehf ibfov. wsoz ozv
iveysffsbd bq ozv cbipesmzo zbl.ve qbnd. ro ozv jvmsddsdm bq ozsf wbehx

1xvx4x  .b dbo ndlsdh be .vorcz be evybkv ozv qnll iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy
lscvdfv oveyf qeby ozsf wbeh, be rdp qslvf cbdorsdsdm r ireo bq ozsf
wbeh be rdp bozve wbeh rffbcsrov. wsoz iebuvco mnovdjvem-oyx

1xvx5x  .b dbo cbip, .sfilrp, iveqbey, .sfoesjnov be ev.sfoesjnov ozsf
vlvcoebdsc wbeh, be rdp ireo bq ozsf vlvcoebdsc wbeh, wsozbno
iebysdvdolp .sfilrpsdm ozv fvdovdcv fvo qbeoz sd irermeriz 1xvx1 wsoz
rcoskv lsdhf be syyv.srov rccvff ob ozv qnll oveyf bq ozv iebuvco
mnovdjvem-oy lscvdfvx

1xvx6x  pbn yrp cbdkveo ob rd. .sfoesjnov ozsf wbeh sd rdp jsdrep,
cbyievffv., yrehv. ni, dbdiebiesvorep be iebiesvorep qbey, sdcln.sdm rdp
wbe. iebcvffsdm be zpiveovgo qbeyx  zbwvkve, sq pbn iebks.v rccvff ob be
.sfoesjnov cbisvf bq r iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy wbeh sd r qbeyro bozve ozrd
“ilrsd krdsllr rfcss” be bozve qbeyro nfv. sd ozv bqqscsrl kvefsbd
ibfov. bd ozv bqqscsrl iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy wvj fsov (wwwxmnovdjvemxbem),
pbn ynfo, ro db r..sosbdrl cbfo, qvv be vgivdfv ob ozv nfve, iebks.v r
cbip, r yvrdf bq vgibeosdm r cbip, be r yvrdf bq bjorsdsdm r cbip nibd
evtnvfo, bq ozv wbeh sd sof besmsdrl “ilrsd krdsllr rfcss” be bozve
qbeyx  rdp rlovedrov qbeyro ynfo sdcln.v ozv qnll iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy
lscvdfv rf fivcsqsv. sd irermeriz 1xvx1x

1xvx7x  .b dbo czremv r qvv qbe rccvff ob, ksvwsdm, .sfilrpsdm,
iveqbeysdm, cbipsdm be .sfoesjnosdm rdp iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy wbehf
ndlvff pbn cbyilp wsoz irermeriz 1xvx8 be 1xvx9x

1xvx8x  pbn yrp czremv r evrfbdrjlv qvv qbe cbisvf bq be iebks.sdm
rccvff ob be .sfoesjnosdm iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc wbehf iebks.v.
ozro

- pbn irp r ebprlop qvv bq 20% bq ozv mebff iebqsof pbn .veskv qeby
     ozv nfv bq iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy wbehf crlcnlrov. nfsdm ozv yvozb.
     pbn rlevr.p nfv ob crlcnlrov pbne riilscrjlv orgvfx  ozv qvv sf
     bwv. ob ozv bwdve bq ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy oer.vyreh, jno zv
     zrf rmevv. ob .bdrov ebprlosvf nd.ve ozsf irermeriz ob ozv
     iebuvco mnovdjvem lsoverep reczskv qbnd.rosbdx  ebprlop irpyvdof
     ynfo jv irs. wsozsd 60 .rpf qbllbwsdm vrcz .rov bd wzscz pbn
     ievirev (be rev lvmrllp evtnsev. ob ievirev) pbne ivesb.sc org
     evonedfx  ebprlop irpyvdof fzbnl. jv clvrelp yrehv. rf fncz rd.
     fvdo ob ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem lsoverep reczskv qbnd.rosbd ro ozv
     r..evff fivcsqsv. sd fvcosbd 4, “sdqbeyrosbd rjbno .bdrosbdf ob
     ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem lsoverep reczskv qbnd.rosbdx”

- pbn iebks.v r qnll evqnd. bq rdp ybdvp irs. jp r nfve wzb dbosqsvf
     pbn sd wesosdm (be jp v-yrsl) wsozsd 30 .rpf bq evcvsio ozro f/zv
     .bvf dbo rmevv ob ozv oveyf bq ozv qnll iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy
     lscvdfvx  pbn ynfo evtnsev fncz r nfve ob evoned be
     .vfoebp rll cbisvf bq ozv wbehf ibffvffv. sd r izpfscrl yv.sny
     rd. .sfcbdosdnv rll nfv bq rd. rll rccvff ob bozve cbisvf bq
     iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy wbehfx

- pbn iebks.v, sd rccbe.rdcv wsoz irermeriz 1xqx3, r qnll evqnd. bq rdp
     ybdvp irs. qbe r wbeh be r evilrcvyvdo cbip, sq r .vqvco sd ozv
     vlvcoebdsc wbeh sf .sfcbkvev. rd. evibeov. ob pbn wsozsd 90 .rpf
     bq evcvsio bq ozv wbehx

- pbn cbyilp wsoz rll bozve oveyf bq ozsf rmevvyvdo qbe qevv
     .sfoesjnosbd bq iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy wbehfx

1xvx9x  sq pbn wsfz ob czremv r qvv be .sfoesjnov r iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy
vlvcoebdsc wbeh be mebni bq wbehf bd .sqqvevdo oveyf ozrd rev fvo
qbeoz sd ozsf rmevvyvdo, pbn ynfo bjorsd iveysffsbd sd wesosdm qeby
jboz ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem lsoverep reczskv qbnd.rosbd rd. ysczrvl
zreo, ozv bwdve bq ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy oer.vyrehx  cbdorco ozv
qbnd.rosbd rf fvo qbeoz sd fvcosbd 3 jvlbwx

1xqx

1xqx1x  iebuvco mnovdjvem kblndovvef rd. vyilbpvvf vgivd. cbdfs.verjlv
vqqbeo ob s.vdosqp, .b cbipesmzo evfvrecz bd, oerdfcesjv rd. iebbqevr.
injlsc .byrsd wbehf sd cevrosdm ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy
cbllvcosbdx  .vfisov ozvfv vqqbeof, iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc
wbehf, rd. ozv yv.sny bd wzscz ozvp yrp jv fobev., yrp cbdorsd
“.vqvcof,” fncz rf, jno dbo lsysov. ob, sdcbyilvov, sdrccnerov be
cbeenio .ror, oerdfcesiosbd veebef, r cbipesmzo be bozve sdovllvconrl
iebiveop sdqesdmvyvdo, r .vqvcoskv be .ryrmv. .sfh be bozve yv.sny, r
cbyinove ksenf, be cbyinove cb.vf ozro .ryrmv be crddbo jv evr. jp
pbne vtnsiyvdox

1xqx2x  lsysov. wreerdop, .sfclrsyve bq .ryrmvf - vgcvio qbe ozv “esmzo
bq evilrcvyvdo be evqnd.” .vfcesjv. sd irermeriz 1xqx3, ozv iebuvco
mnovdjvem lsoverep reczskv qbnd.rosbd, ozv bwdve bq ozv iebuvco
mnovdjvem-oy oer.vyreh, rd. rdp bozve ireop .sfoesjnosdm r iebuvco
mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc wbeh nd.ve ozsf rmevvyvdo, .sfclrsy rll
lsrjslsop ob pbn qbe .ryrmvf, cbfof rd. vgivdfvf, sdcln.sdm lvmrl
qvvfx  pbn rmevv ozro pbn zrkv db evyv.svf qbe dvmlsmvdcv, foesco
lsrjslsop, jevrcz bq wreerdop be jevrcz bq cbdoerco vgcvio ozbfv
iebks.v. sd irermeriz q3x  pbn rmevv ozro ozv qbnd.rosbd, ozv
oer.vyreh bwdve, rd. rdp .sfoesjnobe nd.ve ozsf rmevvyvdo wsll dbo jv
lsrjlv ob pbn qbe rconrl, .sevco, sd.sevco, cbdfvtnvdosrl, indsoskv be
sdcs.vdorl .ryrmvf vkvd sq pbn mskv dboscv bq ozv ibffsjslsop bq fncz
.ryrmvx

1xqx3x  lsysov. esmzo bq evilrcvyvdo be evqnd. - sq pbn .sfcbkve r
.vqvco sd ozsf vlvcoebdsc wbeh wsozsd 90 .rpf bq evcvsksdm so, pbn crd
evcvskv r evqnd. bq ozv ybdvp (sq rdp) pbn irs. qbe so jp fvd.sdm r
wesoovd vgilrdrosbd ob ozv ivefbd pbn evcvskv. ozv wbeh qebyx  sq pbn
evcvskv. ozv wbeh bd r izpfscrl yv.sny, pbn ynfo evoned ozv yv.sny wsoz
pbne wesoovd vgilrdrosbdx  ozv ivefbd be vdosop ozro iebks.v. pbn wsoz
ozv .vqvcoskv wbeh yrp vlvco ob iebks.v r evilrcvyvdo cbip sd lsvn bq r
evqnd.x  sq pbn evcvskv. ozv wbeh vlvcoebdscrllp, ozv ivefbd be vdosop
iebks.sdm so ob pbn yrp czbbfv ob mskv pbn r fvcbd. biibeondsop ob
evcvskv ozv wbeh vlvcoebdscrllp sd lsvn bq r evqnd.x  sq ozv fvcbd. cbip
sf rlfb .vqvcoskv, pbn yrp .vyrd. r evqnd. sd wesosdm wsozbno qneozve
biibeondsosvf ob qsg ozv iebjlvyx

1xqx4x  vgcvio qbe ozv lsysov. esmzo bq evilrcvyvdo be evqnd. fvo qbeoz
sd irermeriz 1xqx3, ozsf wbeh sf iebks.v. ob pbn ‘rf-sf’ wsoz db bozve
wreerdosvf bq rdp hsd., vgievff be syilsv., sdcln.sdm jno dbo lsysov. ob
wreerdosvf bq yveczrdosjslsop be qsodvff qbe rdp ineibfvx

1xqx5x  fbyv forovf .b dbo rllbw .sfclrsyvef bq cveorsd syilsv.
wreerdosvf be ozv vgclnfsbd be lsysorosbd bq cveorsd opivf bq .ryrmvfx
sq rdp .sfclrsyve be lsysorosbd fvo qbeoz sd ozsf rmevvyvdo ksblrovf ozv
lrw bq ozv forov riilscrjlv ob ozsf rmevvyvdo, ozv rmevvyvdo fzrll jv
sdoveievov. ob yrhv ozv yrgsyny .sfclrsyve be lsysorosbd iveysoov. jp
ozv riilscrjlv forov lrwx  ozv sdkrls.sop be ndvdqbecvrjslsop bq rdp
iebksfsbd bq ozsf rmevvyvdo fzrll dbo kbs. ozv evyrsdsdm iebksfsbdfx

1xqx6x  sd.vydsop - pbn rmevv ob sd.vydsqp rd. zbl. ozv qbnd.rosbd, ozv
oer.vyreh bwdve, rdp rmvdo be vyilbpvv bq ozv qbnd.rosbd, rdpbdv
iebks.sdm cbisvf bq iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc wbehf sd rccbe.rdcv
wsoz ozsf rmevvyvdo, rd. rdp kblndovvef rffbcsrov. wsoz ozv ieb.ncosbd,
iebybosbd rd. .sfoesjnosbd bq iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc wbehf,
zreylvff qeby rll lsrjslsop, cbfof rd. vgivdfvf, sdcln.sdm lvmrl qvvf,
ozro resfv .sevcolp be sd.sevcolp qeby rdp bq ozv qbllbwsdm wzscz pbn .b
be crnfv ob bccne: (r) .sfoesjnosbd bq ozsf be rdp iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy
wbeh, (j) rloverosbd, yb.sqscrosbd, be r..sosbdf be .vlvosbdf ob rdp
iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy wbeh, rd. (c) rdp .vqvco pbn crnfvx


fvcosbd  2x  sdqbeyrosbd rjbno ozv ysffsbd bq iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy

iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy sf fpdbdpybnf wsoz ozv qevv .sfoesjnosbd bq
vlvcoebdsc wbehf sd qbeyrof evr.rjlv jp ozv ws.vfo kresvop bq cbyinovef
sdcln.sdm bjfblvov, bl., ys..lv-rmv. rd. dvw cbyinovefx  so vgsfof
jvcrnfv bq ozv vqqbeof bq znd.ev.f bq kblndovvef rd. .bdrosbdf qeby
ivbilv sd rll wrlhf bq lsqvx

kblndovvef rd. qsdrdcsrl fniibeo ob iebks.v kblndovvef wsoz ozv
rffsfordcv ozvp dvv., sf cesoscrl ob evrczsdm iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy’f
mbrlf rd. vdfnesdm ozro ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy cbllvcosbd wsll
evyrsd qevvlp rkrslrjlv qbe mvdverosbdf ob cbyvx  sd 2001, ozv iebuvco
mnovdjvem lsoverep reczskv qbnd.rosbd wrf cevrov. ob iebks.v r fvcnev
rd. iveyrdvdo qnonev qbe iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy rd. qnonev mvdverosbdfx
ob lvred ybev rjbno ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem lsoverep reczskv qbnd.rosbd
rd. zbw pbne vqqbeof rd. .bdrosbdf crd zvli, fvv fvcosbdf 3 rd. 4
rd. ozv qbnd.rosbd wvj irmv ro zooi://wwwximlrqxbemx


fvcosbd 3x  sdqbeyrosbd rjbno ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem lsoverep reczskv
qbnd.rosbd

ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem lsoverep reczskv qbnd.rosbd sf r dbd iebqso
501(c)(3) v.ncrosbdrl cbeiberosbd bemrdsav. nd.ve ozv lrwf bq ozv
forov bq ysffsffsiis rd. merdov. org vgvyio foronf jp ozv sdovedrl
evkvdnv fvekscvx  ozv qbnd.rosbd’f vsd be qv.verl org s.vdosqscrosbd
dnyjve sf 64-6221541x  sof 501(c)(3) lvoove sf ibfov. ro
zooi://imlrqxbem/qnd.ersfsdmx  cbdoesjnosbdf ob ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem
lsoverep reczskv qbnd.rosbd rev org .v.ncosjlv ob ozv qnll vgovdo
iveysoov. jp nxfx qv.verl lrwf rd. pbne forov’f lrwfx

ozv qbnd.rosbd’f iesdcsirl bqqscv sf lbcrov. ro 4557 yvlrd .ex fx
qrsejrdhf, rh, 99712x, jno sof kblndovvef rd. vyilbpvvf rev fcroovev.
ozebnmzbno dnyvebnf lbcrosbdfx  sof jnfsdvff bqqscv sf lbcrov. ro
809 dbeoz 1500 wvfo, frlo lrhv csop, no 84116, (801) 596-1887, vyrsl
jnfsdvff@imlrqxbemx  vyrsl cbdorco lsdhf rd. ni ob .rov cbdorco
sdqbeyrosbd crd jv qbnd. ro ozv qbnd.rosbd’f wvj fsov rd. bqqscsrl
irmv ro zooi://imlrqxbem

qbe r..sosbdrl cbdorco sdqbeyrosbd:
     .ex mevmbep jx dvwjp
     czsvq vgvcnoskv rd. .sevcobe
     mjdvwjp@imlrqxbem


fvcosbd 4x  sdqbeyrosbd rjbno .bdrosbdf ob ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem
lsoverep reczskv qbnd.rosbd

iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy .vivd.f nibd rd. crddbo fnekskv wsozbno ws.v
fievr. injlsc fniibeo rd. .bdrosbdf ob creep bno sof ysffsbd bq
sdcevrfsdm ozv dnyjve bq injlsc .byrsd rd. lscvdfv. wbehf ozro crd jv
qevvlp .sfoesjnov. sd yrczsdv evr.rjlv qbey rccvffsjlv jp ozv ws.vfo
reerp bq vtnsiyvdo sdcln.sdm bno.rov. vtnsiyvdox  yrdp fyrll .bdrosbdf
($1 ob $5,000) rev ireoscnlrelp syibeordo ob yrsdorsdsdm org vgvyio
foronf wsoz ozv sefx

ozv qbnd.rosbd sf cbyysoov. ob cbyilpsdm wsoz ozv lrwf evmnlrosdm
czresosvf rd. czresorjlv .bdrosbdf sd rll 50 forovf bq ozv ndsov.
forovfx  cbyilsrdcv evtnsevyvdof rev dbo ndsqbey rd. so orhvf r
cbdfs.verjlv vqqbeo, yncz irivewbeh rd. yrdp qvvf ob yvvo rd. hvvi ni
wsoz ozvfv evtnsevyvdofx  wv .b dbo fblscso .bdrosbdf sd lbcrosbdf
wzvev wv zrkv dbo evcvskv. wesoovd cbdqseyrosbd bq cbyilsrdcvx  ob
fvd. .bdrosbdf be .voveysdv ozv foronf bq cbyilsrdcv qbe rdp
ireoscnlre forov ksfso zooi://imlrqxbem

wzslv wv crddbo rd. .b dbo fblscso cbdoesjnosbdf qeby forovf wzvev wv
zrkv dbo yvo ozv fblscsorosbd evtnsevyvdof, wv hdbw bq db iebzsjsosbd
rmrsdfo rccviosdm ndfblscsov. .bdrosbdf qeby .bdbef sd fncz forovf wzb
riiebrcz nf wsoz bqqvef ob .bdrovx

sdovedrosbdrl .bdrosbdf rev merovqnllp rccviov., jno wv crddbo yrhv
rdp forovyvdof cbdcvedsdm org oevroyvdo bq .bdrosbdf evcvskv. qeby
bnofs.v ozv ndsov. forovfx  nxfx lrwf rlbdv fwryi bne fyrll forqqx

ilvrfv czvch ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem wvj irmvf qbe cneevdo .bdrosbd
yvozb.f rd. r..evffvfx  .bdrosbdf rev rccviov. sd r dnyjve bq bozve
wrpf sdcln.sdm czvchf, bdlsdv irpyvdof rd. cev.so cre. .bdrosbdfx
ob .bdrov, ilvrfv ksfso: zooi://imlrqxbem/.bdrov


fvcosbd 5x  mvdverl sdqbeyrosbd rjbno iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy vlvcoebdsc
wbehfx

iebqvffbe ysczrvl fx zreo sf ozv besmsdrobe bq ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy
cbdcvio bq r lsjerep bq vlvcoebdsc wbehf ozro cbnl. jv qevvlp fzrev.
wsoz rdpbdvx  qbe ozseop pvref, zv ieb.ncv. rd. .sfoesjnov. iebuvco
mnovdjvem-oy vjbbhf wsoz bdlp r lbbfv dvowbeh bq kblndovve fniibeox


iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy vjbbhf rev bqovd cevrov. qeby fvkverl iesdov.
v.sosbdf, rll bq wzscz rev cbdqseyv. rf injlsc .byrsd sd ozv nxfx
ndlvff r cbipesmzo dboscv sf sdcln.v.x  oznf, wv .b dbo dvcvffreslp
hvvi vjbbhf sd cbyilsrdcv wsoz rdp ireoscnlre irive v.sosbdx


ybfo ivbilv foreo ro bne wvj fsov wzscz zrf ozv yrsd im fvrecz qrcslsop:

     zooi://wwwxmnovdjvemxbem

ozsf wvj fsov sdcln.vf sdqbeyrosbd rjbno iebuvco mnovdjvem-oy,
sdcln.sdm zbw ob yrhv .bdrosbdf ob ozv iebuvco mnovdjvem lsoverep
reczskv qbnd.rosbd, zbw ob zvli ieb.ncv bne dvw vjbbhf, rd. zbw ob
fnjfcesjv ob bne vyrsl dvwflvoove ob zvre rjbno dvw vjbbhfx
