Lsku at.kiluXelkqykaxuKYttvutouSkfalutouHfavqkcc,uyru.tck suItqafh

LswcukYttvuwcuotaulskueckutoufqrtqkufqrnskakufluqtuitclufqhunwls
fgptcluqtuakclawilwtqcunsflctkdkamuuRteupfruit ruwl,uxwdkuwlufnfruta
ak-eckuwlueqhkaulskulkapcutoulsku at.kiluXelkqykaxuGwikqckuwqigehkh
nwlsulswcukYttvutautqgwqkuflunnnmxelkqykaxmtax


Lwlgk:uSkfalutouHfavqkcc

Felsta:u.tck suItqafh

AkgkfckuHflk:uOkyaefaru1995u[KYttvu#219]
GfcluE hflkh:uPfaisu2,u2018

Gfqxefxk:uKqxgwcs

Isfafilkaucklukqithwqx:uELO-8

***uCLFALuTOuLSWCu AT.KILuXELKQYKAXuKYTTVuSKFALuTOuHFAVQKCCu***




 atheikhuyru.ehwlsuYtccufqhuHfdwhuNwhxka





SKFALuTOuHFAVQKCC

Yru.tck suItqafh




W


LskuQkggwk,ufuiaewcwqxurfng,ucneqxultuskaufqistaunwlstelufuogellkauto
lskucfwgc,ufqhunfcufluakclmuLskuogtthusfhupfhk,ulskunwqhunfcuqkfagr
ifgp,ufqhuykwqxuyteqhuhtnqulskuawdka,ulskutqgrulswqxuotauwlunfcultuitpk
ltufqhunfwluotaulskuleaqutoulskulwhkm

Lskuckf-akfisutoulskuLsfpkcuclakliskhuykotakuecugwvkulskuykxwqqwqxuto
fquwqlkapwqfygkunflkanfrmuWqulskutoowqxulskuckfufqhulskucvrunkakunkghkh
ltxklskaunwlstelufu.twql,ufqhuwqulskugepwqtecuc fikulskulfqqkhucfwgc
toulskuyfaxkcuhawolwqxue unwlsulskulwhkuckkpkhultuclfqhuclwgguwquakh
igeclkacutouifqdfcucsfa gru kfvkh,unwlsuxgkfpcutoudfaqwcskhuc awlcmuF
sfjkuakclkhutqulskugtnucstakculsfluafqutelultuckfuwqudfqwcswqxuogflqkccm
LskufwaunfcuhfavufytdkuXafdkckqh,ufqhuofalskauyfivuclwgguckkpkh
itqhkqckhuwqltufupteaqoeguxgttp,uyatthwqxuptlwtqgkccutdkaulskuywxxkcl,
fqhulskuxakflkcl,ultnqutqukfalsm

LskuHwakiltautouItp fqwkcunfcuteauif lfwqufqhuteaustclmuNkuotea
fookilwtqflkgrunfliskhuswcuyfivufcuskucltthuwqulskuytncugttvwqxult
ckfnfahmuTqulskunstgkuawdkaulskakunfcuqtlswqxulsflugttvkhusfgouct
qfelwifgmuSkuakckpygkhufu wgtl,unswisultufuckfpfquwculaeclntalswqkcc
 kactqwowkhmuWlunfcuhwoowieglultuakfgwjkuswcuntavunfcuqtlutelulskakuwq
lskugepwqtecukclefar,uyeluykswqhuswp,unwlswqulskuyatthwqxuxgttpm

Yklnkkqueculskakunfc,ufcuWusfdkufgakfhrucfwhuctpknskak,ulskuytqhuto
lskuckfmuYkcwhkcustghwqxuteauskfalcultxklskaulsatexsugtqxu kawthcuto
ck faflwtq,uwlusfhulskukookilutoupfvwqxuecultgkafqlutoukfisutlska'c
rfaqc--fqhukdkquitqdwilwtqcmuLskuGfnrka--lskuykclutoutghuokggtnc--sfh,
ykifeckutouswcupfqrurkfacufqhupfqrudwalekc,ulskutqgruiecswtqutquhkiv,
fqhunfcugrwqxutqulskutqgruaexmuLskuFiiteqlfqlusfhuyatexslutelufgakfhruf
ytbutouhtpwqtkc,ufqhunfcultrwqxufaiswlkileafggrunwlsulskuytqkcmuPfagtn
cfluiatcc-gkxxkhuawxslufol,ugkfqwqxufxfwqclulskupwjjkq-pfclmuSkusfh
ceqvkquiskkvc,ufurkggtnuitp gkbwtq,ufuclafwxsluyfiv,ufqufciklwiufc kil,
fqh,unwlsuswcufapcuhat  kh,ulsku fgpcutousfqhcutelnfahc,uakckpygkhufq
whtgmuLskuhwakilta,ucflwcowkhulskufqistausfhuxtthustgh,upfhkuswcunfr
folufqhucfluhtnqufptqxcluecmuNkukbisfqxkhufuoknuntahcugfjwgrmuFolkanfahc
lskakunfcucwgkqikutquytfahulskurfislmuOtauctpkuakfctqutautlskaunkuhwh
qtluykxwqulsfluxfpkutouhtpwqtkcmuNkuokglupkhwlflwdk,ufqhuowluotauqtlswqx
yelu gfiwhuclfawqxmuLskuhfrunfcukqhwqxuwqufuckakqwlrutouclwggufqh
kbzewcwlkuyawggwfqikmuLskunflkaucstqku fiwowifggr;ulskucvr,unwlsteluf
c kiv,unfcufuykqwxquwppkqcwlrutoueqclfwqkhugwxsl;ulskudkarupwclutqulsk
Kcckbupfacsunfcugwvkufuxfejrufqhuafhwfqluofyawi,useqxuoatpulskuntthkh
awckcuwqgfqh,ufqhuhaf wqxulskugtnucstakcuwquhwf sfqtecuotghcmuTqgrulsk
xgttpultulskunkcl,uyatthwqxutdkaulskue  kauakfiskc,uykifpkuptakuctpyak
kdkarupwqelk,ufcuwoufqxkakhuyrulskuf  atfisutoulskuceqm

Fqhuflugfcl,uwquwlcuieadkhufqhuwp kaik lwygkuofgg,ulskucequcfqvugtn,ufqh
oatpuxgtnwqxunswlkuisfqxkhultufuhegguakhunwlsteluafrcufqhunwlsteluskfl,
fcuwoufytelultuxtutelucehhkqgr,uclawivkqultuhkflsuyrulskulteisutoulsfl
xgttpuyatthwqxutdkaufuiatnhutoupkqm

Otalsnwlsufuisfqxkuifpkutdkaulskunflkac,ufqhulskuckakqwlruykifpkugkcc
yawggwfqluyeluptaku atoteqhmuLskutghuawdkauwquwlcuyatfhuakfisuakclkh
eqaeoogkhuflulskuhkigwqkutouhfr,ufolkaufxkcutouxtthuckadwikuhtqkultulsk
afikulsflu kt gkhuwlcuyfqvc,uc akfhuteluwqulskulafqzewguhwxqwlrutouf
nflkanfrugkfhwqxultulskuellkaptclukqhcutoulskukfalsmuNkugttvkhuflulsk
dkqkafygkuclakfpuqtluwqulskudwdwhuogecsutoufucstaluhfrulsfluitpkcufqh
hk falcuotaukdka,uyeluwqulskufexeclugwxslutoufywhwqxupkptawkcmuFqh
wqhkkhuqtlswqxuwcukfcwkauotaufupfqunstusfc,ufculsku safckuxtkc,
“otggtnkhulskuckf”unwlsuakdkakqikufqhufookilwtq,ulsfqultukdtvkulsk
xakfluc wawlutoulsku fclue tqulskugtnkauakfiskcutoulskuLsfpkcmuLskulwhfg
ieaakqluaeqcultufqhuoatuwquwlcueqikfcwqxuckadwik,uiatnhkhunwlsupkptawkc
toupkqufqhucsw cuwlusfhuytaqkultulskuakclutoustpkutaultulskuyfllgkc
toulskuckfmuWlusfhuvqtnqufqhuckadkhufggulskupkqutounstpulskuqflwtquwc
 ateh,uoatpuCwauOafqiwcuHafvkultuCwau.tsquOafqvgwq,uvqwxslcufgg,ulwlgkh
fqhueqlwlgkh--lskuxakfluvqwxslc-kaafqlutoulskuckfmuWlusfhuytaqkufggulsk
csw cunstckuqfpkcufakugwvku.knkgcuogfcswqxuwqulskuqwxslutoulwpk,uoatp
lsku_XtghkquSwqh_uakleaqwqxunwlsuskauatleqhuogfqvcuoeggutoulakfceak,ultuyk
dwcwlkhuyrulskuZekkq'cuSwxsqkccufqhulsecu fccutelutoulskuxwxfqlwiulfgk,
ltulsku_Kakyec_ufqhu_Lkaata_,uyteqhutqutlskauitqzekclc--fqhulsfluqkdka
akleaqkhmuWlusfhuvqtnqulskucsw cufqhulskupkqmuLskrusfhucfwgkhuoatp
Hk lotah,uoatpuXakkqnwis,uoatpuKawls--lskufhdkqleakacufqhulskuckllgkac;
vwqxc'ucsw cufqhulskucsw cutoupkqutqu'Isfqxk;uif lfwqc,ufhpwafgc,ulsk
hfavu“wqlkagt kac”utoulskuKfclkaqulafhk,ufqhulskuitppwccwtqkhu“xkqkafgc”
utouKfcluWqhwfuogkklcmuSeqlkacuotauxtghutau eacekacutouofpk,ulskrufgg
sfhuxtqkutelutqulsfluclakfp,uykfawqxulskucntah,ufqhutolkqulskultais,
pkcckqxkacutoulskupwxslunwlswqulskugfqh,uykfakacutoufuc favuoatpulsk
cfiakhuowakmuNsfluxakflqkccusfhuqtluogtflkhutqulskukyyutoulsfluawdka
wqltulskuprclkarutoufqueqvqtnqukfals!mmmuLskuhakfpcutoupkq,ulskuckkh
touitpptqnkfglsc,ulskuxkapcutoukp wakcm

Lskucequckl;ulskuhecvuokggutqulskuclakfp,ufqhugwxslcuykxfqultuf  kfa
fgtqxulskucstakmuLskuIsf pfqugwxsl-steck,ufulsakk-gkxxkhulswqxukakil
tqufupeh-ogfl,ucstqkuclatqxgrmuGwxslcutoucsw cuptdkhuwqulskuofwanfr--f
xakfluclwautougwxslcuxtwqxue ufqhuxtwqxuhtnqmuFqhuofalskaunkclutqulsk
e  kauakfiskculsku gfikutoulskuptqclatecultnqunfcuclwggupfavkhutpwqtecgr
tqulskucvr,ufuyatthwqxuxgttpuwquceqcswqk,ufugeawhuxgfakueqhkaulskuclfacm

“Fqhulswcufgct,”ucfwhuPfagtnucehhkqgr,u“sfcuykkqutqkutoulskuhfavu gfikc
toulskukfalsm”

Skunfculskutqgrupfqutouecunstuclwggu“otggtnkhulskuckfm”uLskuntaclulsfl
iteghuykucfwhutouswpunfculsfluskuhwhuqtluak akckqluswcuigfccmuSkunfcuf
ckfpfq,uyeluskunfcufunfqhkaka,ultt,unswgkuptcluckfpkqugkfh,uwoutqkupfr
ctukb akccuwl,ufuckhkqlfarugwokmuLskwaupwqhcufakutoulskuclfr-fl-stpk
tahka,ufqhulskwaustpkuwcufgnfrcunwlsulskp--lskucsw ;ufqhuctuwculskwa
iteqlar--lskuckfmuTqkucsw uwcudkarupeisugwvkufqtlska,ufqhulskuckfuwc
fgnfrculskucfpkmuWqulskuwppelfywgwlrutoulskwauceaateqhwqxculskuotakwxq
cstakc,ulskuotakwxquofikc,ulskuisfqxwqxuwppkqcwlrutougwok,uxgwhku fcl,
dkwgkhuqtluyrufuckqckutouprclkaruyeluyrufucgwxslgruhwchfwqoeguwxqtafqik;
otaulskakuwcuqtlswqxuprclkawtecultufuckfpfqueqgkccuwluykulskuckfuwlckgo,
nswisuwculskupwclakccutouswcukbwclkqikufqhufcuwqciaelfygkufcuHkclwqrm
Otaulskuakcl,ufolkauswcusteacutountav,ufuifcefguclatggutaufuifcefguc akk
tqucstakuceoowikcultueqotghuotauswpulskuckiaklutoufunstgkuitqlwqkql,
fqhuxkqkafggruskuowqhculskuckiakluqtluntalsuvqtnwqxmuLskurfaqcutouckfpkq
sfdkufuhwakilucwp gwiwlr,ulskunstgkupkfqwqxutounswisugwkcunwlswqulsk
cskggutoufuiafivkhuqelmuYeluPfagtnunfcuqtlulr wifgu(wouswcu at kqcwlr
ltuc wqurfaqcuykukbik lkh),ufqhultuswpulskupkfqwqxutoufquk wcthkunfcuqtl
wqcwhkugwvkufuvkaqkguyelutelcwhk,ukqdkgt wqxulskulfgkunswisuyatexsluwl
telutqgrufcufuxgtnuyawqxcutelufusfjk,uwqulskugwvkqkccutoutqkutoulskck
pwclrusfgtculsfluctpklwpkcufakupfhkudwcwygkuyrulskuc kilafguwggepwqflwtq
toupttqcswqkm

Swcuakpfavuhwhuqtluckkpuflufggucea awcwqxmuWlunfcu.eclugwvkuPfagtnm
Wlunfcufiik lkhuwqucwgkqikmuQtutqkulttvulskulateygkultuxaeqlukdkq;ufqh
 akckqlgruskucfwh,udkarucgtn--“Wunfculswqvwqxutoudkarutghulwpkc,unskq
lskuAtpfqcuowacluifpkuskak,uqwqklkkquseqhakhurkfacufxt--lskutlskauhfr
mmmmuGwxsluifpkutelutoulswcuawdkaucwqik--rteucfruVqwxslc?uRkc;uyel
wluwcugwvkufuaeqqwqxuygfjkutqufu gfwq,ugwvkufuogfcsutougwxslqwqxuwqulsk
igtehcmuNkugwdkuwqulskuogwivka--pfruwlugfclufcugtqxufculskutghukfals
vkk cuatggwqx!uYeluhfavqkccunfcuskakurkclkahfrmuWpfxwqkulskuokkgwqxc
toufuitppfqhkautoufuowqk--nsfluh'rkuifggu'kp?--lawakpkuwqulsk
Pkhwlkaafqkfq,utahkakhucehhkqgrultulskuqtals;uaequtdkagfqhufiatcculsk
Xfegcuwqufuseaar;u eluwquisfaxkutoutqkutoulskckuiafolulskugkxwtqfawkc--f
ntqhkaoegugtlutousfqhrupkqulskrupeclusfdkuykkq,ultt--eckhultuyewgh,
f  fakqlgruyrulskuseqhakh,uwqufuptqlsutaulnt,uwounkupfruykgwkdkunsflunk
akfhmuWpfxwqkuswpuskak--lskudkarukqhutoulskuntagh,ufuckfulskuitgtea
tougkfh,ufucvrulskuitgteautoucptvk,ufuvwqhutoucsw ufytelufcuawxwhufcuf
itqikalwqf--fqhuxtwqxue ulswcuawdkaunwlsucltakc,utautahkac,utaunsflurte
gwvkmuCfqh-yfqvc,upfacskc,uotakclc,ucfdfxkc,-- akiwtecugwllgkultukfl
owluotaufuiwdwgwjkhupfq,uqtlswqxuyeluLsfpkcunflkaultuhawqvmuQtuOfgkaqwfq
nwqkuskak,uqtuxtwqxufcstakmuSkakufqhulskakufupwgwlfaruifp ugtcluwq
funwghkaqkcc,ugwvkufuqkkhgkuwqufuyeqhgkutousfr--itgh,uotx,ulkp kclc,
hwckfck,ukbwgk,ufqhuhkfls--hkflsucvegvwqxuwqulskufwa,uwqulskunflka,uwq
lskuyecsmuLskrupeclusfdkuykkquhrwqxugwvkuogwkcuskakmuTs,urkc--skuhwh
wlmuHwhuwludkarunkgg,ultt,uqtuhteyl,ufqhunwlstelulswqvwqxupeisufytel
wlukwlska,ukbik lufolkanfahcultuyafxutounsfluskusfhuxtqkulsatexsuwquswc
lwpk,u kasf cmuLskrunkakupkqukqtexsultuofikulskuhfavqkccmuFqhu kasf cusk
nfcuiskkakhuyruvkk wqxuswcukrkutqufuisfqikutou atptlwtqultulskuogkklufl
Afdkqqfuyrufqhuyr,uwouskusfhuxtthuoawkqhcuwquAtpkufqhuceadwdkhulskufnoeg
igwpflkmuTaulswqvutoufuhkikqlurteqxuiwlwjkquwqufultxf-- kasf cultt
peisuhwik,urteuvqtn--itpwqxuteluskakuwqulskulafwqutouctpku akokil,uta
lfb-xflskaka,utaulafhkaukdkq,ultupkqhuswcuotaleqkcmuGfqhuwqufucnfp ,
pfaisulsatexsulskuntthc,ufqhuwquctpkuwqgfqhu tcluokkgulskucfdfxkar,ulsk
ellkaucfdfxkar,usfhuigtckhuateqhuswp--fggulsfluprclkawtecugwokutoulsk
nwghkaqkcculsfluclwacuwqulskuotakcl,uwqulsku.eqxgkc,uwqulskuskfalcuto
nwghupkqmuLskak'cuqtuwqwlwflwtqukwlskauwqltuceisuprclkawkcmuSkusfcult
gwdkuwqulskupwhclutoulskuwqitp akskqcwygk,unswisuwcufgctuhklkclfygkmuFqh
wlusfcufuofciwqflwtq,ultt,ulsfluxtkcultuntavue tquswpmuLskuofciwqflwtq
toulskufytpwqflwtq--rteuvqtn,uwpfxwqkulskuxatnwqxuakxaklc,ulskugtqxwqx
ltukcif k,ulsku tnkagkccuhwcxecl,ulskuceaakqhka,ulskusflkm”

Sku feckhm

“Pwqh,”uskuykxfqufxfwq,ugwolwqxutqkufapuoatpulskukgytn,ulsku fgputoulsk
sfqhutelnfahc,uctulsfl,unwlsuswcugkxcuotghkhuykotakuswp,uskusfhulsk
 tckutoufuYehhsfu akfiswqxuwquKeat kfquigtlskcufqhunwlsteluf
gtlec-ogtnka--“Pwqh,uqtqkutouecunteghuokkgukbfilgrugwvkulswcmuNsflucfdkc
ecuwcukoowiwkqir--lskuhkdtlwtqultukoowiwkqirmuYelulskckuisf cunkakuqtl
peisufiiteql,uakfggrmuLskrunkakuqtuitgtqwclc;ulskwaufhpwqwclaflwtqunfc
pkakgrufuczekkjk,ufqhuqtlswqxuptak,uWucec kilmuLskrunkakuitqzekatac,ufqh
otaulsflurteunfqlutqgruyaelkuotaik--qtlswqxultuytfcluto,unskqurteusfdk
wl,ucwqikurteauclakqxlsuwcu.eclufqufiiwhkqlufawcwqxuoatpulskunkfvqkccuto
tlskacmuLskruxafyykhunsflulskruiteghuxkluotaulskucfvkutounsflunfcult
ykuxtlmuWlunfcu.ecluatyykarunwlsudwtgkqik,ufxxafdflkhupeahkautqufuxakfl
cifgk,ufqhupkquxtwqxufluwluygwqh--fcuwcudkaru at kauotaulstckunstulfivgk
fuhfavqkccmuLskuitqzekclutoulskukfals,unswisuptclgrupkfqculskulfvwqx
wlufnfruoatpulstckunstusfdkufuhwookakqluitp gkbwtqutaucgwxslgruogfllka
qtckculsfquteackgdkc,uwcuqtlufu akllrulswqxunskqurteugttvuwqltuwlultt
peismuNsfluakhkkpcuwluwculskuwhkfutqgrmuFquwhkfuflulskuyfivutouwl;uqtl
fuckqlwpkqlfgu aklkqikuyelufquwhkf;ufqhufqueqckgowcsuykgwkouwqulsk
whkf--ctpklswqxurteuifqucklue ,ufqhuytnuhtnquykotak,ufqhutookauf
cfiawowikultmmmm”

SkuyatvkutoomuOgfpkcuxgwhkhuwqulskuawdka,ucpfgguxakkquogfpkc,uakh
ogfpkc,unswlkuogfpkc,u eacewqx,utdkalfvwqx,u.twqwqx,uiatccwqxukfis
tlska--lskquck faflwqxucgtngrutausfclwgrmuLskulafoowiutoulskuxakfluiwlr
nkqlutquwqulskuhkk kqwqxuqwxslue tqulskucgkk gkccuawdkamuNkugttvkhutq,
nfwlwqxu flwkqlgr--lskakunfcuqtlswqxukgckultuhtulwggulskukqhuto
lskuogtth;uyeluwlunfcutqgrufolkaufugtqxucwgkqik,unskquskucfwh,uwq
fuskcwlflwqxudtwik,u“Wuce  tckurteuokggtncuakpkpykauWuhwhutqikuleaq
oakcs-nflkaucfwgtauotaufuywl,”ulsflunkuvqknunkunkakuoflkh,uykotak
lskukyyuykxfqultuaeq,ultuskfaufytelutqkutouPfagtn'cuwqitqigecwdk
kb kawkqikcm

“Wuhtq'lunfqlultuytlskaurteupeisunwlsunsflusf  kqkhultupku kactqfggr,”
uskuykxfq,ucstnwqxuwqulswcuakpfavulskunkfvqkccutoupfqrulkggkacutoulfgkc
nstuckkpuctutolkqueqfnfakutounsflulskwaufehwkqikunteghugwvkuykclult
skfa;u“rklultueqhkaclfqhulskukookilutouwlutqupkurteutexslultuvqtnustnuW
xtlutelulskak,unsfluWucfn,ustnuWunkqlue ulsfluawdkaultulsku gfikunskakuW
owaclupklulsku ttauisf muWlunfculskuofalskclu twqlutouqfdwxflwtqufqhulsk
iegpwqflwqxu twqlutouprukb kawkqikmuWluckkpkhuctpkstnultulsatnufuvwqh
tougwxslutqukdkarlswqxufytelupk--fqhuwqltuprulstexslcmuWlunfcuctpyak
kqtexs,ultt--fqhu wlwoeg--qtlukblaftahwqfaruwqufqrunfr--qtludkaruigkfa
kwlskamuQt,uqtludkaruigkfamuFqhurkluwluckkpkhultulsatnufuvwqhutougwxslm

“Wusfhulskq,ufcurteuakpkpyka,u.ecluakleaqkhultuGtqhtqufolkaufugtluto
WqhwfquTikfq,u fiwowi,uIswqfuCkfc--fuakxegfauhtckutoulskuKfcl--cwburkfac
tauct,ufqhuWunfcugtfowqxufytel,uswqhkawqxurteuokggtncuwqurteauntavufqh
wqdfhwqxurteaustpkc,u.eclufculstexsuWusfhuxtlufuskfdkqgrupwccwtqult
iwdwgwjkurtemuWlunfcudkaruowqkuotaufulwpk,uyelufolkaufuywluWuhwhuxkl
lwakhutouakclwqxmuLskquWuykxfqultugttvuotaufucsw --Wucsteghulswqvulsk
sfahkcluntavutqukfalsmuYelulskucsw cunteghq'lukdkqugttvuflupkmuFqhuWuxtl
lwakhutoulsfluxfpk,ulttm

“QtnunskquWunfcufugwllgkuisf uWusfhufu fccwtquotaupf cmuWunteghugttvuota
steacufluCtelsuFpkawif,utauFoawif,utauFeclafgwf,ufqhugtckuprckgouwqufgg
lskuxgtawkcutoukb gtaflwtqmuFlulsflulwpkulskakunkakupfqruygfqvuc fikcutq
lskukfals,ufqhunskquWucfnutqkulsflugttvkhu falwiegfagruwqdwlwqxutqufupf 
(yelulskrufggugttvulsfl)uWunteghu elupruowqxkautquwlufqhucfr,u'Nskq
Wuxatnue uWunwgguxtulskakm'uLskuQtalsu tgkunfcutqkutoulskcku gfikc,uW
akpkpykamuNkgg,uWusfdkq'luykkqulskakurkl,ufqhucsfgguqtlularuqtnmuLsk
xgfptea'cutoomuTlskau gfikcunkakucifllkakhufytelulskuskpwc skakcmuW
sfdkuykkquwquctpkutoulskp,ufqhmmmunkgg,unkuntq'lulfgvufytelulsflmuYel
lskakunfcutqkurkl--lskuywxxkcl,ulskuptcluygfqv,uctultuc kfv--lsfluWusfh
fusfqvkawqxufolkam

“Laek,uyrulswculwpkuwlunfcuqtlufuygfqvuc fikufqruptakmuWlusfhuxtluowggkh
cwqikupruytrstthunwlsuawdkacufqhugfvkcufqhuqfpkcmuWlusfhuikfckhultuyk
fuygfqvuc fikutouhkgwxsloeguprclkar--funswlku flisuotaufuytrultuhakfp
xgtawtecgrutdkamuWlusfhuykitpkufu gfikutouhfavqkccmuYelulskakunfcuwquwl
tqkuawdkaukc kiwfggr,ufupwxslruywxuawdka,ulsflurteuiteghuckkutqulskupf ,
akckpygwqxufquwppkqckucqfvkueqitwgkh,unwlsuwlcuskfhuwqulskuckf,uwlc
ythrufluakcluieadwqxufofautdkaufudfcluiteqlar,ufqhuwlculfwgugtcluwqulsk
hk lscutoulskugfqhmuFqhufcuWugttvkhuflulskupf utouwluwqufucst -nwqhtn,
wluofciwqflkhupkufcufucqfvkunteghufuywah--fucwggrugwllgkuywahmuLskquW
akpkpykakhulskakunfcufuywxuitqikaq,ufuItp fqruotaulafhkutqulsfluawdkam
Hfcsuwlufgg!uWulstexslultuprckgo,ulskruifq'lulafhkunwlsteluecwqxuctpk
vwqhutouiafolutqulsflugtlutouoakcsunflka--clkfpytflc!uNsrucsteghq'luW
larultuxkluisfaxkutoutqk?uWunkqlutqufgtqxuOgkkluClakkl,uyeluiteghuqtl
csfvkutooulskuwhkfmuLskucqfvkusfhuisfapkhupkm

“RteueqhkaclfqhuwlunfcufuItqlwqkqlfguitqikaq,ulsfluLafhwqxuctiwklr;uyel
WusfdkufugtlutouakgflwtqcugwdwqxutqulskuItqlwqkql,uykifeckuwl'cuiskf 
fqhuqtluctuqfclrufcuwlugttvc,ulskrucfrm

“WufpuctaarultutnquWuykxfqultuntaarulskpmuLswcunfcufgakfhrufuoakcs
hk faleakuotaupkmuWunfcuqtlueckhultuxklulswqxculsflunfr,urteuvqtnmuW
fgnfrcunkqluprutnquatfhufqhutquprutnqugkxcunskakuWusfhufupwqhultuxtmuW
nteghq'lusfdkuykgwkdkhuwlutouprckgo;uyel,ulskq--rteuckk--Wuokgluctpkstn
WupecluxklulskakuyrusttvutauyruiattvmuCtuWuntaawkhulskpmuLskupkqucfwh
'Pruhkfauokggtn,'ufqhuhwhuqtlswqxmuLskq--nteghurteuykgwkdkuwl?--Wulawkh
lskuntpkqmuW,uIsfagwkuPfagtn,ucklulskuntpkqultuntav--ltuxklufu.tym
Skfdkqc!uNkgg,urteuckk,ulskuqtlwtquhatdkupkmuWusfhufqufeql,ufuhkfa
kqlsecwfclwiuctegmuCskunatlk:u'WlunwgguykuhkgwxsloegmuWufpuakfhrultuht
fqrlswqx,ufqrlswqxuotaurtemuWluwcufuxgtawtecuwhkfmuWuvqtnulskunwokutouf
dkaruswxsu kactqfxkuwqulskuFhpwqwclaflwtq,ufqhufgctufupfqunstusfcugtlc
touwqogekqikunwls,'uklimuCskunfcuhklkapwqkhultupfvkuqtukqhutouoeccult
xklupkuf  twqlkhucvw  kautoufuawdkauclkfpytfl,uwouceisunfcupruofqirm

“Wuxtlupruf  twqlpkql--touiteack;ufqhuWuxtluwludkaruzewivmuWluf  kfac
lskuItp fqrusfhuakikwdkhuqknculsflutqkutoulskwauif lfwqcusfhuykkquvwggkh
wqufucieoogkunwlsulskuqflwdkcmuLswcunfcupruisfqik,ufqhuwlupfhkupkulsk
ptakufqbwtecultuxtmuWlunfcutqgruptqlscufqhuptqlscufolkanfahc,unskquW
pfhkulskufllkp lultuakitdkaunsflunfcugkolutoulskuythr,ulsfluWuskfahulsk
tawxwqfguzefaakgufatckuoatpufupwceqhkaclfqhwqxufyteluctpkuskqcmuRkc,
lntuygfivuskqcmuOakcgkdkq--lsflunfculskuokggtn'cuqfpk,ufuHfqk--lstexsl
swpckgounatqxkhuctpkstnuwqulskuyfaxfwq,uctuskunkqlufcstakufqhuclfalkhult
sfppkaulskuiswkoutoulskudwggfxkunwlsufuclwivmuTs,uwluhwhq'lucea awck
pkuwqulskugkfclultuskfaulswc,ufqhuflulskucfpkulwpkultuykultghulsfl
Oakcgkdkqunfculskuxkqlgkcl,uzewklkcluiakfleakulsflukdkaunfgvkhutqulnt
gkxcmuQtuhteyluskunfc;uyeluskusfhuykkqufuite gkutourkfacufgakfhrutel
lskakukqxfxkhuwqulskuqtygkuifeck,urteuvqtn,ufqhusku atyfygruokglulsk
qkkhuflugfclutoufcckalwqxuswcuckgo-akc kiluwquctpkunfrmuLskakotakusk
nsfivkhulskutghuqwxxkaupkaiwgkccgr,unswgkufuywxuiatnhutouswcu kt gk
nfliskhuswp,ulseqhkaclaeiv,ulwgguctpkupfq--Wunfcultghulskuiswko'c
ctq--wquhkc kaflwtqufluskfawqxulskutghuisf urkgg,upfhkufulkqlflwdku.fy
nwlsufuc kfauflulskunswlkupfq--fqhutouiteackuwlunkqluzewlkukfcruyklnkkq
lskucsteghka-ygfhkcmuLskqulskunstgku t egflwtquigkfakhuwqltulskuotakcl,
kb kilwqxufgguvwqhcutouifgfpwlwkcultusf  kq,unswgk,utqulskutlskausfqh,
lskuclkfpkauOakcgkdkquitppfqhkhugkolufgctuwqufuyfhu fqwi,uwquisfaxkuto
lskukqxwqkka,uWuykgwkdkmuFolkanfahcuqtythruckkpkhultulateygkupeis
fyteluOakcgkdkq'cuakpfwqc,ulwgguWuxtlutelufqhuclk  khuwqltuswcucstkcmuW
iteghq'lugkluwluakcl,ulstexs;uyelunskqufqut  taleqwlrutookakhuflugfclult
pkklupru akhkikccta,ulskuxafccuxatnwqxulsatexsuswcuawycunfculfggukqtexs
ltuswhkuswcuytqkcmuLskrunkakufggulskakmuLskuce kaqfleafguykwqxusfhuqtl
ykkqulteiskhufolkauskuokggmuFqhulskudwggfxkunfcuhkckalkh,ulskuselcuxf kh
ygfiv,uatllwqx,ufggufcvknunwlswqulskuofggkqukqigtceakcmuFuifgfpwlr
sfhuitpkultuwl,uceakukqtexsmuLsku kt gkusfhudfqwcskhmuPfhulkaatausfh
cifllkakhulskp,upkq,untpkq,ufqhuiswghakq,ulsatexsulskuyecs,ufqhulskrusfh
qkdkauakleaqkhmuNsfluykifpkutoulskuskqcuWuhtq'luvqtnukwlskamuWucstegh
lswqvulskuifeckutou atxakccuxtlulskp,ufqrstnmuStnkdka,ulsatexsulswc
xgtawtecufoofwauWuxtlupruf  twqlpkql,uykotakuWusfhuofwagruykxequltust k
otauwlm

“Wuogknufateqhugwvkupfhultuxkluakfhr,ufqhuykotakuotalr-kwxslusteacuWunfc
iatccwqxulskuIsfqqkgultucstnuprckgoultuprukp gtrkac,ufqhucwxqulsk
itqlafilmuWqufudkaruoknusteacuWufaawdkhuwqufuiwlrulsflufgnfrcupfvkcupk
lswqvutoufunswlkhuck egisakmu ak.ehwikuqtuhteylmuWusfhuqtuhwoowieglruwq
owqhwqxulskuItp fqr'cutoowikcmuWlunfculskuywxxkclulswqxuwqulskultnq,ufqh
kdkarythruWupklunfcuoeggutouwlmuLskrunkakuxtwqxultuaequfqutdka-ckf
kp wak,ufqhupfvkuqtukqhutouitwquyrulafhkm

“Fuqfaatnufqhuhkckalkhuclakkluwquhkk ucsfhtn,uswxsusteckc,uwqqepkafygk
nwqhtncunwlsudkqklwfquygwqhc,ufuhkfhucwgkqik,uxafccuc atelwqxuyklnkkq
lskucltqkc,uwp tcwqxuifaawfxkufaisnfrcuawxslufqhugkol,uwppkqckuhteygk
httacuclfqhwqxu tqhkatecgruf.famuWucgw  khulsatexsutqkutoulskckuiafivc,
nkqlue ufucnk lufqhueqxfaqwcskhuclfwaifck,ufcufawhufcufuhkckal,ufqh
t kqkhulskuowacluhttauWuifpkultmuLntuntpkq,utqkuoflufqhulskutlskaucgwp,
cflutquclafn-ytlltpkhuisfwac,uvqwllwqxuygfivunttgmuLskucgwputqkuxtlue 
fqhunfgvkhuclafwxsluflupk--clwgguvqwllwqxunwlsuhtnqifclukrkc--fqhutqgr
.eclufcuWuykxfqultulswqvutouxkllwqxutelutouskaunfr,ufcurteunteghuotauf
ctpqfpyegwcl,ucltthuclwgg,ufqhugttvkhue muSkauhakccunfcufcu gfwqufcufq
epyakggf-itdka,ufqhucskuleaqkhuateqhunwlstelufuntahufqhu akikhkhupkuwqlt
funfwlwqx-attpmuWuxfdkupruqfpk,ufqhugttvkhufytelmuHkfgulfygkuwqulsk
pwhhgk,u gfwquisfwacufgguateqhulskunfggc,utqutqkukqhufugfaxkucswqwqx
pf ,upfavkhunwlsufggulskuitgteacutoufuafwqytnmuLskakunfcufudfclufpteql
touakh--xtthultuckkuflufqrulwpk,uykifeckutqkuvqtnculsfluctpkuakfguntav
wcuhtqkuwqulskak,ufuhkeikutoufugtlutouygek,ufugwllgkuxakkq,ucpkfacuto
tafqxk,ufqh,utqulskuKfcluItfcl,ufu ea gku flis,ultucstnunskakulsku.tggr
 wtqkkacutou atxakccuhawqvulsku.tggrugfxka-ykkamuStnkdka,uWunfcq'luxtwqx
wqltufqrutoulskckmuWunfcuxtwqxuwqltulskurkggtnmuHkfhuwqulskuikqlakmuFqh
lskuawdkaunfculskak--ofciwqflwqx--hkfhgr--gwvkufucqfvkmuTexs!uFuhtta
t kqkh,ufunswlk-sfwakhuckiaklfawfguskfh,uyelunkfawqxufuitp fccwtqflk
kb akccwtq,uf  kfakh,ufqhufucvwqqruotakowqxkauykivtqkhupkuwqltulsk
cfqilefarmuWlcugwxslunfcuhwp,ufqhufuskfdrunawlwqx-hkcvuczefllkhuwqulsk
pwhhgkmuOatpuykswqhulsfluclaeileakuifpkutelufquwp akccwtqutou fgk
 gep qkccuwqufuoativ-itflmuLskuxakflupfquswpckgomuSkunfcuowdkuokklucwb,
Wucsteghu.ehxk,ufqhusfhuswcuxaw utqulskusfqhgk-kqhutoukdkauctupfqr
pwggwtqcmuSkucsttvusfqhc,uWuofqir,upeapeakhudfxekgr,unfcucflwcowkhunwls
pruOakqismu_YtquDtrfxk_m

“Wqufyteluotalr-owdkuckitqhcuWuoteqhuprckgoufxfwquwqulskunfwlwqx-attp
nwlsulskuitp fccwtqflkuckiaklfar,unst,uoeggutouhkctgflwtqufqhucrp flsr,
pfhkupkucwxquctpkuhtiepkqlmuWuykgwkdkuWueqhkalttvufptqxclutlskaulswqxc
qtlultuhwcigtckufqrulafhkuckiaklcmuNkgg,uWufpuqtluxtwqxultm

“WuykxfqultuokkgucgwxslgrueqkfcrmuRteuvqtnuWufpuqtlueckhultuceis
ikakptqwkc,ufqhulskakunfcuctpklswqxutpwqtecuwqulskuflptc skakmuWl
nfcu.eclufculstexsuWusfhuykkqugkluwqltuctpkuitqc wafir--Wuhtq'l
vqtn--ctpklswqxuqtluzewlkuawxsl;ufqhuWunfcuxgfhultuxklutelmuWqulskutelka
attpulskulntuntpkquvqwllkhuygfivunttguokdkawcsgrmu kt gkunkakufaawdwqx,
fqhulskurteqxkautqkunfcunfgvwqxuyfivufqhuotalsuwqlatheiwqxulskpmuLsk
tghutqkucflutquskauisfwamuSkauogfluigtlsucgw  kacunkaku at  khue utq
fuottl-nfapka,ufqhufuifluak tckhutquskaugf muCskuntakufuclfaiskh
nswlkufoofwautquskauskfh,usfhufunfalutqutqkuiskkv,ufqhucwgdka-awppkh
c kilfigkcuseqxutqulskulw utouskauqtckmuCskuxgfqikhuflupkufytdkulsk
xgfcckcmuLskucnwolufqhuwqhwookakqlu gfiwhwlrutoulsflugttvulateygkhupkm
Lnturtelscunwlsuottgwcsufqhuiskkaruiteqlkqfqikcunkakuykwqxu wgtlkhutdka,
fqhucskulsaknuflulskpulskucfpkuzewivuxgfqikutoueqitqikaqkhunwchtpmuCsk
ckkpkhultuvqtnufggufytelulskpufqhufytelupk,ulttmuFqukkawkuokkgwqxuifpk
tdkaupkmuCskuckkpkhueqifqqrufqhuoflkoegmuTolkquofaufnfrulskakuWulstexsl
toulskckulnt,uxefahwqxulskuhttautouHfavqkcc,uvqwllwqxuygfivunttgufcuota
funfapu fgg,utqkuwqlatheiwqx,uwqlatheiwqxuitqlwqetecgrultulskueqvqtnq,
lskutlskauciaelwqwjwqxulskuiskkarufqhuottgwcsuofikcunwlsueqitqikaqkhutgh
krkcmu_Fdk!_uTghuvqwllkautouygfivunttgmu_Ptawleawulkucfgelfql_muQtl
pfqrutoulstckucskugttvkhuflukdkaucfnuskaufxfwq--qtlusfgo,uyrufugtqxunfrm

“Lskakunfcurklufudwcwlultulskuhtiltamu'Fucwp gkuotapfgwlr,'ufcceakhupk
lskuckiaklfar,unwlsufqufwautoulfvwqxufquwppkqcku faluwqufggupructaatncm
Fiitahwqxgrufurteqxuisf unkfawqxuswcusflutdkaulskugkolukrkyatn,uctpk
igkavuWuce  tck--lskakupeclusfdkuykkquigkavcuwqulskuyecwqkcc,ulstexs
lskusteckunfcufcuclwggufcufusteckuwqufuiwlrutoulskuhkfh--ifpkuoatp
ctpknskakue -clfwac,ufqhugkhupkuotalsmuSkunfcucsfyyrufqhuifakgkcc,unwls
wqvclfwqcutqulskucgkkdkcutouswcu.fivkl,ufqhuswcuiafdflunfcugfaxkufqh
ywggtnr,ueqhkaufuiswqucsf khugwvkulskultkutoufqutghuyttlmuWlunfcuf
gwllgkulttukfagruotaulskuhtilta,uctuWu at tckhufuhawqv,ufqhulskake tqusk
hkdkgt khufudkwqutou.tdwfgwlrmuFcunkucflutdkauteaudkaptelscuskuxgtawowkh
lskuItp fqr'cuyecwqkcc,ufqhuyrufqhuyruWukb akcckhuifcefggruprucea awck
fluswpuqtluxtwqxutelulskakmuSkuykifpkudkaruittgufqhuitggkilkhufggufl
tqikmu'WufpuqtluceisufuottgufcuWugttv,uzetlsu gfltultuswcuhwciw gkc,'
skucfwhuckqlkqlwtecgr,ukp lwkhuswcuxgfccunwlsuxakfluakctgelwtq,ufqhunk
atckm

“Lskutghuhtiltauokglupru egck,ukdwhkqlgrulswqvwqxutouctpklswqxukgck
lskunswgkmu'Xtth,uxtthuotaulskak,'uskupepygkh,ufqhulskqunwlsufuikalfwq
kfxkaqkccufcvkhupkunsklskauWunteghugkluswpupkfceakupruskfhmuAflska
cea awckh,uWucfwhuRkc,unskqusku atheikhufulswqxugwvkuifgw kacufqhuxtl
lskuhwpkqcwtqcuyfivufqhuoatqlufqhukdkarunfr,ulfvwqxuqtlkcuifakoeggrmuSk
nfcufqueqcsfdkqugwllgkupfquwqufulsakfhyfakuitflugwvkufuxfykahwqk,unwls
swcuokkluwqucgw  kac,ufqhuWulstexsluswpufusfapgkccuottgmu'Wufgnfrcufcv
gkfdk,uwqulskuwqlkakclcutouciwkqik,ultupkfceakulskuiafqwfutoulstckuxtwqx
telulskak,'uskucfwhmu'Fqhunskqulskruitpkuyfiv,ultt?'uWufcvkhmu'Ts,uW
qkdkauckkulskp,'uskuakpfavkh;u'fqh,uptaktdka,ulskuisfqxkculfvku gfik
wqcwhk,urteuvqtnm'uSkucpwgkh,ufcuwoufluctpkuzewklu.tvkmu'Cturteufak
xtwqxutelulskakmuOfptecmuWqlkakclwqx,ulttm'uSkuxfdkupkufuckfaiswqx
xgfqik,ufqhupfhkufqtlskauqtlkmu'Kdkaufqrupfhqkccuwqurteauofpwgr?'usk
fcvkh,uwqufupfllka-to-ofilultqkmuWuokgludkarufqqtrkhmu'Wculsfluzekclwtq
wqulskuwqlkakclcutouciwkqik,ultt?'u'Wlunteghuyk,'uskucfwh,unwlstel
lfvwqxuqtlwikutoupruwaawlflwtq,u'wqlkakclwqxuotauciwkqikultunflisulsk
pkqlfguisfqxkcutouwqhwdwhefgc,utqulskuc tl,uyelmmm'u'Fakurteufq
fgwkqwcl?'uWuwqlkaae lkhmu'Kdkaruhtiltaucsteghuyk--fugwllgk,'ufqcnkakh
lsflutawxwqfg,uwp kaleayfygrmu'Wusfdkufugwllgkulsktarunswisurte
pkccwkeacunstuxtutelulskakupecluskg upkultu atdkmuLswcuwcuprucsfak
wqulskufhdfqlfxkcupruiteqlarucsfgguakf uoatpulsku tcckccwtqutouceisuf
pfxqwowikqluhk kqhkqirmuLskupkakunkfglsuWugkfdkultutlskacmu fahtqupr
zekclwtqc,uyelurteufakulskuowacluKqxgwcspfquitpwqxueqhkaupr
tyckadflwtqmmm'uWusfclkqkhultufcceakuswpuWunfcuqtluwqulskugkfclulr wifgm
'WouWunkak,'ucfwhuW,u'Wunteghq'luykulfgvwqxugwvkulswcunwlsurtem'u'Nsfl
rteucfruwcuaflskau atoteqh,ufqhu atyfygrukaatqktec,'uskucfwh,unwlsuf
gfexsmu'Fdtwhuwaawlflwtquptakulsfqukb tceakultulskuceqmu_Fhwke_muStnuht
rteuKqxgwcsucfr,uks?uXtth-yrkmuFs!uXtth-yrkmu_Fhwke_muWqulskulat wicutqk
pecluykotakukdkarlswqxuvkk uifgpm'mmmuSkugwolkhufunfaqwqxuotakowqxkammmm
'_Heuifgpk,uheuifgpk_m'

“Tqkulswqxuptakuakpfwqkhultuht--cfruxtth-yrkultuprukbikggkqlufeqlmuW
oteqhuskaulawep sfqlmuWusfhufuie utoulkf--lskugfcluhkikqluie utoulkfuota
pfqruhfrc--fqhuwqufuattpulsfluptclucttlswqxgrugttvkhu.eclufcurteuntegh
kb kilufugfhr'cuhafnwqx-attpultugttv,unkusfhufugtqxuzewkluisfluyrulsk
owakcwhkmuWqulskuiteackutoulskckuitqowhkqikcuwluykifpkuzewlku gfwqultupk
Wusfhuykkquak akckqlkhultulskunwokutoulskuswxsuhwxqwlfar,ufqhuxtthqkcc
vqtncultustnupfqruptaku kt gkuykcwhkc,ufcufqukbik lwtqfgufqhuxwolkh
iakfleak--fu wkikutouxtthuotaleqkuotaulskuItp fqr--fupfqurteuhtq'luxkl
stghutoukdkaruhfrmuXtthuskfdkqc!ufqhuWunfcuxtwqxultulfvkuisfaxkutouf
lnt- kqqr-sfgo- kqqruawdka-clkfpytflunwlsufu kqqrunswclgkufllfiskh!uWl
f  kfakh,ustnkdka,uWunfcufgctutqkutoulskuNtavkac,unwlsufuif wlfg--rte
vqtnmuCtpklswqxugwvkufqukpwccfarutougwxsl,uctpklswqxugwvkufugtnkauctal
touf tclgkmuLskakusfhuykkqufugtlutouceisuatlugklugttckuwqu awqlufqhulfgv
.eclufytelulsflulwpk,ufqhulskukbikggkqluntpfq,ugwdwqxuawxsluwqulskuaecs
toufggulsflusepyex,uxtluifaawkhutoouskauokklmuCskulfgvkhufytelu'nkfqwqx
lstckuwxqtafqlupwggwtqcuoatpulskwaustaawhunfrc,'ulwgg,ue tqupruntah,ucsk
pfhkupkuzewlkueqitpotalfygkmuWudkqleakhultuswqlulsflulskuItp fqrunfcuaeq
otau atowlm

“'Rteuotaxkl,uhkfauIsfagwk,ulsflulskugfyteakauwcuntalsrutouswcuswak,'
cskucfwh,uyawxslgrmuWl'cuzekkaustnutelutoulteisunwlsulaelsuntpkqufakm
Lskrugwdkuwqufuntaghutoulskwautnq,ufqhulskakusfcuqkdkauykkqufqrlswqx
gwvkuwl,ufqhuqkdkauifquykmuWluwculttuykfelwoegufgltxklska,ufqhuwoulskr
nkakultuckluwlue uwlunteghuxtultu wkikcuykotakulskuowacluceqcklmuCtpk
itqoteqhkhuofilunkupkqusfdkuykkqugwdwqxuitqlkqlkhgrunwlsukdkaucwqikulsk
hfrutouiakflwtqunteghuclfalue ufqhuvqtivulskunstgkulswqxutdkam

“FolkaulswcuWuxtlukpyafikh,ultghultunkfauogfqqkg,uykuceakultunawlk
tolkq,ufqhuctutq--fqhuWugkolmuWqulskuclakkl--Wuhtq'luvqtnunsr--fuzekka
okkgwqxuifpkultupkulsfluWunfcufquwp tclkamuThhulswqxulsfluW,unstueckhult
igkfauteluotaufqru falutoulskuntaghuflulnkqlr-oteausteac'uqtlwik,unwls
gkcculstexslulsfquptclupkquxwdkultulskuiatccwqxutoufuclakkl,usfhuf
ptpkql--Wuntq'lucfrutouskcwlflwtq,uyelutouclfalgkhu feck,uykotakulswc
itpptq gfikufoofwamuLskuykclunfruWuifqukb gfwquwlulturteuwcuyrucfrwqx
lsfl,uotaufuckitqhutaulnt,uWuokglufculstexs,uwqclkfhutouxtwqxultulsk
ikqlakutoufuitqlwqkql,uWunkakufytelultucklutoouotaulskuikqlakutoulsk
kfalsm

“WugkoluwqufuOakqisuclkfpka,ufqhucskuifggkhuwqukdkaruygfpkhu talulskr
sfdkutelulskak,uota,ufcuofaufcuWuiteghuckk,ulskuctgku ea tckutougfqhwqx
ctghwkacufqhuiecltp-steckutoowikacmuWunfliskhulskuitfclmuNfliswqxuf
itfclufcuwlucgw cuyrulskucsw uwcugwvkulswqvwqxufytelufqukqwxpfmuLskak
wluwcuykotakurte--cpwgwqx,uoatnqwqx,uwqdwlwqx,uxafqh,upkfq,uwqcw wh,uta
cfdfxk,ufqhufgnfrcupelkunwlsufqufwautounswc kawqx,u'Itpkufqhuowqhutelm'
Lswcutqkunfcufgptcluokfleakgkcc,ufcuwouclwgguwqulskupfvwqx,unwls
fqufc kilutouptqtltqtecuxawpqkccmuLskukhxkutoufuitgtccfgu.eqxgk,uct
hfav-xakkqufcultuykufgptcluygfiv,uoawqxkhunwlsunswlkuceao,uafquclafwxsl,
gwvkufuaegkhugwqk,uofa,uofaufnfrufgtqxufuygekuckfunstckuxgwllkaunfc
ygeaakhuyrufuiakk wqxupwclmuLskucequnfcuowkaik,ulskugfqhuckkpkhult
xgwclkqufqhuhaw unwlsuclkfpmuSkakufqhulskakuxakrwcs-nswlwcsuc kivc
cstnkhue uigeclkakhuwqcwhkulskunswlkuceao,unwlsufuogfxuogrwqxufytdk
lskpu kasf cmuCkllgkpkqlcuctpkuikqleawkcutgh,ufqhuclwgguqtuywxxkaulsfq
 wqskfhcutqulskueqlteiskhukb fqckutoulskwauyfivxateqhmuNku teqhkhufgtqx,
clt  kh,ugfqhkhuctghwkac;unkqlutq,ugfqhkhuiecltp-steckuigkavcultugkdr
ltgguwqunsflugttvkhugwvkufuXth-otacfvkqunwghkaqkcc,unwlsufulwqucskh
fqhufuogfx- tgkugtcluwquwl;ugfqhkhuptakuctghwkac--ltulfvkuifakutoulsk
iecltp-steckuigkavc,u akcepfygrmuCtpk,uWuskfah,uxtluhatnqkhuwqulskuceao;
yelunsklskaulskruhwhutauqtl,uqtythruckkpkhu falwiegfagrultuifakmuLskr
nkaku.ecluogeqxutelulskak,ufqhutqunkunkqlmuKdkaruhfrulskuitfcl
gttvkhulskucfpk,ufculstexsunkusfhuqtluptdkh;uyelunku fcckhudfawtec
 gfikc--lafhwqxu gfikc--nwlsuqfpkcugwvkuXafq'uYfccfp,uGwllgku t t;uqfpkc
lsfluckkpkhultuykgtqxultuctpkuctahwhuofaikufilkhuwquoatqlutoufucwqwclka
yfiv-igtlsmuLskuwhgkqkccutoufu fcckqxka,upruwctgflwtqufptqxclufggulskck
pkqunwlsunstpuWusfhuqtu twqlutouitqlfil,ulskutwgrufqhugfqxewhuckf,ulsk
eqwotapuctpyakqkccutoulskuitfcl,uckkpkhultuvkk upkufnfruoatpulskulaels
toulswqxc,unwlswqulskultwgutoufupteaqoegufqhuckqckgkccuhkgecwtqmuLsk
dtwikutoulskuceaouskfahuqtnufqhulskqunfcufu tcwlwdku gkfceak,ugwvkulsk
c kkisutoufuyatlskamuWlunfcuctpklswqxuqfleafg,ulsflusfhuwlcuakfctq,ulsfl
sfhufupkfqwqxmuQtnufqhulskqufuytfluoatpulskucstakuxfdkutqkufuptpkqlfar
itqlfilunwlsuakfgwlrmuWlunfcu fhhgkhuyruygfivuokggtncmuRteuiteghuckk
oatpufofaulskunswlkutoulskwaukrkyfggcuxgwclkqwqxmuLskrucstelkh,ucfqx;
lskwauythwkcuclakfpkhunwlsu kac waflwtq;ulskrusfhuofikcugwvkuxatlkczek
pfcvc--lskckuisf c;uyelulskrusfhuytqk,upecigk,ufunwghudwlfgwlr,ufq
wqlkqckukqkaxrutouptdkpkql,ulsflunfcufcuqfleafgufqhulaekufculskuceao
fgtqxulskwauitfclmuLskrunfqlkhuqtukbieckuotauykwqxulskakmuLskrunkakuf
xakfluitpotalultugttvuflmuOtaufulwpkuWunteghuokkguWuykgtqxkhuclwggult
funtaghutouclafwxslotanfahuofilc;uyelulskuokkgwqxunteghuqtlugfclugtqxm
Ctpklswqxunteghuleaque ultucifakuwlufnfrmuTqik,uWuakpkpyka,unkuifpkue tq
fupfq-to-nfaufqistakhutooulskuitfclmuLskakunfcq'lukdkqufucskhulskak,ufqh
cskunfcucskggwqxulskuyecsmuWluf  kfaculskuOakqisusfhutqkutoulskwaunfac
xtwqxutqulskakfytelcmuSkaukqcwxquhat  khugwp ugwvkufuafx;ulskupejjgkc
toulskugtqxucwb-wqisuxeqcucleivutelufggutdkaulskugtnusegg;ulskuxakfcr,
cgwprucnkggucneqxuskaue ugfjwgrufqhugkluskauhtnq,ucnfrwqxuskaulswq
pfclcmuWqulskukp lruwppkqcwlrutoukfals,ucvr,ufqhunflka,ulskakucskunfc,
wqitp akskqcwygk,uowawqxuwqltufuitqlwqkqlmu t ,unteghuxtutqkutoulsk
cwb-wqisuxeqc;ufucpfgguogfpkunteghuhfalufqhudfqwcs,ufugwllgkunswlkucptvk
nteghuhwcf  kfa,ufulwqru at.kilwgkunteghuxwdkufuokkygkuciakkis--fqh
qtlswqxusf  kqkhmuQtlswqxuiteghusf  kqmuLskakunfcufulteisutouwqcfqwlruwq
lsku atikkhwqx,ufuckqckutougexeyawtecuhatggkaruwqulskucwxsl;ufqhuwlunfc
qtluhwccw flkhuyructpkythrutquytfahufcceawqxupkukfaqkclgrulskakunfc
fuifp utouqflwdkc--skuifggkhulskpukqkpwkc!--swhhkqutelutoucwxsl
ctpknskakm

“Nkuxfdkuskauskaugkllkacu(Wuskfahulskupkquwqulsflugtqkgrucsw unkakuhrwqx
touokdkauflulskuaflkutoulsakkufuhfr)ufqhunkqlutqmuNkuifggkhufluctpkuptak
 gfikcunwlsuofaiwifguqfpkc,unskakulskupkaaruhfqikutouhkflsufqhulafhk
xtkcutquwqufuclwggufqhukfalsruflptc skakufcutoufqutdkaskflkhuiflfitpy;
fggufgtqxulskuotapgkccuitfcluytahkakhuyruhfqxkatecuceao,ufcuwouQfleak
skackgousfhulawkhultunfahutoouwqlaehkac;uwqufqhutelutouawdkac,uclakfpc
touhkflsuwqugwok,unstckuyfqvcunkakuatllwqxuwqltupeh,unstckunflkac,
lswivkqkhuwqltucgwpk,uwqdfhkhulskuitqltalkhupfqxatdkc,ulsfluckkpkhult
nawlskufluecuwqulskukblakpwlrutoufquwp tlkqluhkc fwamuQtnskakuhwhunk
clt ugtqxukqtexsultuxklufu falwiegfawjkhuwp akccwtq,uyelulskuxkqkafg
ckqckutoudfxekufqhut  akccwdkuntqhkauxaknue tqupkmuWlunfcugwvkufunkfar
 wgxawpfxkufptqxcluswqlcuotauqwxslpfakcm

“Wlunfcue nfahutoulswalruhfrcuykotakuWucfnulskuptelsutoulskuywxuawdkam
NkufqistakhutooulskuckflutoulskuxtdkaqpkqlmuYelupruntavunteghuqtluykxwq
lwgguctpkulntuseqhakhupwgkcuofalskautqmuCtufcucttqufcuWuiteghuWupfhkuf
clfaluotaufu gfikulswalrupwgkcuswxskaue m

“Wusfhupru fccfxkutqufugwllgkuckf-xtwqxuclkfpkamuSkauif lfwqunfcuf
Cnkhk,ufqhuvqtnwqxupkuotaufuckfpfq,uwqdwlkhupkutqulskuyawhxkmuSkunfcuf
rteqxupfq,ugkfq,uofwa,ufqhuptatck,unwlsugfqvrusfwaufqhufucseoogwqxuxfwlm
Fcunkugkolulskupwckafygkugwllgkunsfao,uskultcckhuswcuskfhuitqlkp letecgr
flulskucstakmu'Ykkqugwdwqxulskak?'uskufcvkhmuWucfwh,u'Rkcm'u'Owqkugtl
lskckuxtdkaqpkqluisf c--fakulskruqtl?'uskunkqlutq,uc kfvwqxuKqxgwcs
nwlsuxakflu akiwcwtqufqhuitqcwhkafygkuywllkaqkccmu'Wluwcuoeqqrunsfluctpk
 kt gkunwgguhtuotaufuoknuoafqicufuptqlsmuWuntqhkaunsfluykitpkcutoulsfl
vwqhunskquwluxtkcue iteqlar?'uWucfwhultuswpuWukb kilkhultuckkulsfl
cttqmu'Ct-t-t!'uskukbigfwpkhmuSkucseoogkhuflsnfal,uvkk wqxutqkukrkufskfh
dwxwgfqlgrmu'Htq'luykulttuceak,'uskuitqlwqekhmu'LskutlskauhfruWulttv
e ufupfqunstusfqxkhuswpckgoutqulskuatfhmuSkunfcufuCnkhk,ulttm'
'Sfqxkhuswpckgo!uNsr,uwquXth'cuqfpk?'uWuiawkhmuSkuvk lutqugttvwqx
telunflisoeggrmu'Nstuvqtnc?uLskucequlttupeisuotauswp,utaulskuiteqlar
 kasf cm'

“Flugfclunkut kqkhufuakfismuFuativruigwoouf  kfakh,upteqhcutouleaqkh-e 
kfalsuyrulskucstak,usteckcutqufuswgg,utlskacunwlsuwatquattoc,ufptqxcluf
nfclkutoukbifdflwtqc,utausfqxwqxultulskuhkigwdwlrmuFuitqlwqetecuqtwckuto
lskuaf whcufytdkustdkakhutdkaulswcucikqkutouwqsfywlkhuhkdfclflwtqmuF
gtlutou kt gk,uptclgruygfivufqhuqfvkh,uptdkhufytelugwvkufqlcmuFu.kllr
 at.kilkhuwqltulskuawdkamuFuygwqhwqxuceqgwxsluhatnqkhufggulswcuflulwpkc
wqufucehhkquakiaehkcikqikutouxgfakmu'Lskak'curteauItp fqr'cuclflwtq,'
cfwhulskuCnkhk,u twqlwqxultulsakkuntthkquyfaafiv-gwvkuclaeileakcutqulsk
ativrucgt kmu'Wunwgguckqhurteaulswqxcue muOteauytbkcuhwhurteucfr?uCtm
Ofaknkggm'

“Wuifpkue tqufuytwgkaunfggtnwqxuwqulskuxafcc,ulskquoteqhufu fls
gkfhwqxue ulskuswggmuWluleaqkhufcwhkuotaulskuyteghkac,ufqhufgctuotaufq
eqhkacwjkhuafwgnfr-laeivugrwqxulskakutquwlcuyfivunwlsuwlcunskkgcuwq
lskufwamuTqkunfcutoomuLskulswqxugttvkhufcuhkfhufculskuifaifccutouctpk
fqwpfgmuWuifpkue tquptaku wkikcutouhkifrwqxupfiswqkar,ufuclfivutouaeclr
afwgcmuLtulskugkolufuigep utoulakkcupfhkufucsfhruc tl,unskakuhfavulswqxc
ckkpkhultuclwauokkygrmuWuygwqvkh,ulsku flsunfcuclkk muFustaqulttlkhult
lskuawxsl,ufqhuWucfnulskuygfivu kt gkuaeqmuFuskfdrufqhuhegguhkltqflwtq
csttvulskuxateqh,ufu eooutoucptvkuifpkutelutoulskuigwoo,ufqhulsflunfc
fggmuQtuisfqxkuf  kfakhutqulskuofikutoulskuativmuLskrunkakuyewghwqxuf
afwgnfrmuLskuigwoounfcuqtluwqulskunfrutaufqrlswqx;uyelulswcuty.kilgkcc
ygfclwqxunfcufggulskuntavuxtwqxutqm

“FucgwxsluigwqvwqxuykswqhupkupfhkupkuleaqupruskfhmuCwbuygfivupkq
fhdfqikhuwqufuowgk,ultwgwqxue ulsku flsmuLskrunfgvkhukakilufqhucgtn,
yfgfqiwqxucpfgguyfcvklcuoeggutoukfalsutqulskwauskfhc,ufqhulskuigwqvuvk l
lwpkunwlsulskwauottlclk cmuYgfivuafxcunkakunteqhuateqhulskwaugtwqc,ufqh
lskucstalukqhcuykswqhunfxxgkhultufqhuoatugwvkulfwgcmuWuiteghuckkukdkar
awy,ulsku.twqlcutoulskwaugwpycunkakugwvkuvqtlcuwqufuat k;ukfisusfhufq
watquitggfautquswcuqkiv,ufqhufggunkakuitqqkilkhultxklskaunwlsufuisfwq
nstckuywxslcucneqxuyklnkkqulskp,uasrlspwifggruigwqvwqxmuFqtlskauak tal
oatpulskuigwooupfhkupkulswqvucehhkqgrutoulsflucsw utounfauWusfhuckkq
owawqxuwqltufuitqlwqkqlmuWlunfculskucfpkuvwqhutoutpwqtecudtwik;uyel
lskckupkquiteghuyruqtuclaklisutouwpfxwqflwtquykuifggkhukqkpwkcmuLskr
nkakuifggkhuiawpwqfgc,ufqhulskutelafxkhugfn,ugwvkulskuyeaclwqxucskggc,
sfhuitpkultulskp,ufquwqctgeygkuprclkaruoatpulskuckfmuFggulskwaupkfxak
yakfclcu fqlkhultxklska,ulskudwtgkqlgruhwgflkhuqtclawgcuzewdkakh,ulsk
krkcuclfakhucltqwgrue swggmuLskru fcckhupkunwlswqucwbuwqiskc,unwlsteluf
xgfqik,unwlsulsfluitp gklk,uhkflsgwvkuwqhwookakqikutoueqsf  rucfdfxkcm
Ykswqhulswcuafnupfllkautqkutoulskuakigfwpkh,ulsku atheilutoulskuqkn
otaikcufluntav,uclatggkhuhkc tqhkqlgr,uifaarwqxufuawogkuyruwlcupwhhgkm
Skusfhufueqwotapu.fivklunwlsutqkuyelltqutoo,ufqhuckkwqxufunswlkupfqutq
lsku fls,ustwclkhuswcunkf tqultuswcucsteghkaunwlsufgfiawlrmuLswcunfc
cwp gku aehkqik,unswlkupkquykwqxuctupeisufgwvkuflufuhwclfqikulsflusk
iteghuqtlulkggunstuWupwxsluykmuSkunfcuc kkhwgruakfcceakh,ufqhunwlsuf
gfaxk,unswlk,uafcifggruxawq,ufqhufuxgfqikufluswcuisfaxk,uckkpkhultulfvk
pkuwqltu falqkacsw uwquswcukbfglkhulaeclmuFolkaufgg,uWufgctunfcufu fal
toulskuxakfluifeckutoulskckuswxsufqhu.eclu atikkhwqxcm

“Wqclkfhutouxtwqxue ,uWuleaqkhufqhuhkcikqhkhultulskugkolmuPruwhkfunfcult
gklulsfluisfwq-xfqxuxklutelutoucwxsluykotakuWuigwpykhulskuswggmuRteuvqtn
Wufpuqtlu falwiegfagrulkqhka;uW'dkusfhultuclawvkufqhultuokqhutoom
W'dkusfhultuakcwclufqhultufllfivuctpklwpkc--lsfl'cutqgrutqkunfruto
akcwclwqx--nwlsteluiteqlwqxulskukbfiluitcl,ufiitahwqxultulskuhkpfqhc
touceisuctalutougwokufcuWusfhuygeqhkakhuwqltmuW'dkuckkqulskuhkdwguto
dwtgkqik,ufqhulskuhkdwgutouxakkh,ufqhulskuhkdwgutoustluhkcwak;uyel,uyr
fggulskuclfac!ulskckunkakuclatqx,ugeclr,uakh-krkhuhkdwgc,ulsflucnfrkh
fqhuhatdkupkq--pkq,uWulkggurtemuYelufcuWucltthutqulswcuswggcwhk,uW
otakcfnulsfluwqulskuygwqhwqxuceqcswqkutoulsflugfqhuWunteghuykitpk
fizefwqlkhunwlsufuogfyyr,u aklkqhwqx,unkfv-krkhuhkdwgutoufuaf fiwtecufqh
 wlwgkccuotggrmuStnuwqcwhwtecuskuiteghuyk,ultt,uWunfcutqgrultuowqhutel
ckdkafguptqlscugflkaufqhufulstecfqhupwgkcuofalskamuOtaufuptpkqluW
cltthuf  fggkh,ufculstexsuyrufunfaqwqxmuOwqfggruWuhkcikqhkhulskuswgg,
tygwzekgr,ultnfahculskulakkcuWusfhuckkqm

“Wufdtwhkhufudfclufalwowiwfgustgkuctpkythrusfhuykkquhwxxwqxutqulsk
cgt k,ulsku ea tckutounswisuWuoteqhuwluwp tccwygkultuhwdwqkmuWlunfcq'l
fuzefaarutaufucfqh wl,ufqrstnmuWlunfcu.eclufustgkmuWlupwxslusfdk
ykkquitqqkilkhunwlsulsku swgfqlsat wiuhkcwakutouxwdwqxulskuiawpwqfgc
ctpklswqxultuhtmuWuhtq'luvqtnmuLskquWuqkfagruokgguwqltufudkaruqfaatn
afdwqk,ufgptcluqtuptakulsfqufucifauwqulskuswggcwhkmuWuhwcitdkakhulsfl
fugtlutouwp talkhuhafwqfxk- w kcuotaulskuckllgkpkqlusfhuykkqulepygkhuwq
lskakmuLskakunfcq'lutqkulsflunfcuqtluyatvkqmuWlunfcufunfqltqucpfcs-e m
FlugfcluWuxtlueqhkaulskulakkcmuPru ea tckunfcultuclatgguwqltulskucsfhk
otaufuptpkql;uyeluqtucttqkaunwlswqulsfquwluckkpkhultupkuWusfhuclk  kh
wqltulskuxgttpruiwaigkutouctpkuWqokaqtmuLskuaf whcunkakuqkfa,ufqhufq
eqwqlkaae lkh,ueqwotap,uskfhgtqx,uaecswqxuqtwckuowggkhulskupteaqoeg
clwggqkccutoulskuxatdk,unskakuqtlufuyakflsuclwaakh,uqtlufugkfouptdkh,
nwlsufuprclkawtecucteqh--fculstexsulskulkfawqxu fikutoulskugfeqiskh
kfalsusfhucehhkqgruykitpkufehwygkm

“Ygfivucsf kcuiateiskh,ugfr,ucfluyklnkkqulskulakkcugkfqwqxufxfwqclulsk
laeqvc,uigwqxwqxultulskukfals,usfgouitpwqxutel,usfgoukoofikhunwlswq
lskuhwpugwxsl,uwqufggulskufllwlehkcutou fwq,ufyfqhtqpkql,ufqhuhkc fwam
Fqtlskaupwqkutqulskuigwoounkqlutoo,uotggtnkhuyrufucgwxslucsehhkautoulsk
ctwgueqhkaupruokklmuLskuntavunfcuxtwqxutqmuLskuntav!uFqhulswcunfculsk
 gfikunskakuctpkutoulskuskg kacusfhunwlshafnqultuhwkm

“Lskrunkakuhrwqxucgtngr--wlunfcudkaruigkfamuLskrunkakuqtlukqkpwkc,ulskr
nkakuqtluiawpwqfgc,ulskrunkakuqtlswqxukfalsgruqtn--qtlswqxuyeluygfiv
csfhtncutouhwckfckufqhuclfadflwtq,ugrwqxuitqoeckhgruwqulskuxakkqwcs
xgttpmuYatexsluoatpufggulskuakikcckcutoulskuitfcluwqufggulskugkxfgwlr
toulwpkuitqlafilc,ugtcluwqueqitqxkqwfguceaateqhwqxc,uokhutqueqofpwgwfa
otth,ulskrucwivkqkh,uykifpkuwqkoowiwkql,ufqhunkakulskqufggtnkhultuiafng
fnfrufqhuakclmuLskckuptawyeqhucsf kcunkakuoakkufcufwa--fqhuqkfagrufc
lswqmuWuykxfqultuhwclwqxewcsulskuxgkfputoulskukrkcueqhkaulskulakkcm
Lskq,uxgfqiwqxuhtnq,uWucfnufuofikuqkfauprusfqhmuLskuygfivuytqkcuakigwqkh
fluoeggugkqxlsunwlsutqkucsteghkaufxfwqclulskulakk,ufqhucgtngrulsk
krkgwhcuatckufqhulskuceqvkqukrkcugttvkhue uflupk,ukqtaptecufqhudfifql,
fuvwqhutouygwqh,unswlkuogwivkauwqulskuhk lscutoulskutayc,unswisuhwkhutel
cgtngrmuLskupfquckkpkhurteqx--fgptclufuytr--yelurteuvqtnunwlsulskpuwl'c
sfahultulkggmuWuoteqhuqtlswqxukgckultuhtuyelultutookauswputqkutoupruxtth
Cnkhk'cucsw 'cuywciewlcuWusfhuwqupru tivklmuLskuowqxkacuigtckhucgtngr
tquwlufqhuskgh--lskakunfcuqtutlskauptdkpkqlufqhuqtutlskauxgfqikmuSkusfh
lwkhufuywlutounswlkuntaclkhuateqhuswcuqkiv--Nsr?uNskakuhwhuskuxkluwl?
Nfcuwlufuyfhxk--fqutaqfpkql--fuisfap--fu at wlwfltarufil?uNfculskakufqr
whkfuflufgguitqqkilkhunwlsuwl?uWlugttvkhuclfalgwqxuateqhuswcuygfivuqkiv,
lswcuywlutounswlkulsakfhuoatpuykrtqhulskuckfcm

“Qkfaulskucfpkulakkulntuptakuyeqhgkcutoufielkufqxgkcucflunwlsulskwaugkxc
hafnque muTqk,unwlsuswcuiswqu at  khutquswcuvqkkc,uclfakhufluqtlswqx,
wqufquwqltgkafygkufqhuf  fggwqxupfqqka:uswcuyatlskau sfqltpuakclkhuwlc
otakskfh,ufcuwoutdkaitpkunwlsufuxakflunkfawqkcc;ufqhufggufytelutlskac
nkakucifllkakhuwqukdkaru tckutouitqltalkhuitggf ck,ufcuwquctpku wileak
toufupfccfiakutaufu kclwgkqikmuNswgkuWucltthustaata-claeiv,utqkutoulskck
iakfleakcuatckultuswcusfqhcufqhuvqkkc,ufqhunkqlutooutqufgg-oteacultnfahc
lskuawdkaultuhawqvmuSkugf  khutelutouswcusfqh,ulskqucflue uwqulsk
ceqgwxsl,uiatccwqxuswcucswqcuwquoatqlutouswp,ufqhufolkaufulwpkugkluswc
nttggruskfhuofggutquswcuyakfclytqkm

“Wuhwhq'lunfqlufqruptakugtwlkawqxuwqulskucsfhk,ufqhuWupfhkusfclkultnfahc
lskuclflwtqmuNskquqkfaulskuyewghwqxcuWupklufunswlkupfq,uwquceisufq
eqkb kilkhukgkxfqikutouxkl-e ulsfluwqulskuowacluptpkqluWulttvuswpuota
fuctalutoudwcwtqmuWucfnufuswxsuclfaiskhuitggfa,unswlkuieooc,ufugwxsl
fg fifu.fivkl,ucqtnrulateckac,ufuigkfquqkivlwk,ufqhudfaqwcskhuyttlcmuQt
sflmuSfwau falkh,uyaecskh,utwgkh,ueqhkaufuxakkq-gwqkhu fafctguskghuwquf
ywxunswlkusfqhmuSkunfcufpfjwqx,ufqhusfhufu kqstghkauykswqhuswcukfam

“Wucsttvusfqhcunwlsulswcupwafigk,ufqhuWugkfaqkhuskunfculskuItp fqr'c
iswkoufiiteqlfql,ufqhulsflufggulskuyttv-vkk wqxunfcuhtqkuflulswc
clflwtqmuSkusfhuitpkuteluotaufuptpkql,uskucfwh,u'ltuxklufuyakflsuto
oakcsufwamuLskukb akccwtqucteqhkhuntqhkaoeggruthh,unwlsuwlcucexxkclwtq
touckhkqlfaruhkcv-gwokmuWunteghq'lusfdkupkqlwtqkhulskuokggtnulturteufl
fgg,utqgruwlunfcuoatpuswcugw culsfluWuowacluskfahulskuqfpkutoulsk
pfqunstuwcuctuwqhwcctgeygruitqqkilkhunwlsulskupkptawkcutoulsflulwpkm
Ptaktdka,uWuakc kilkhulskuokggtnmuRkc;uWuakc kilkhuswcuitggfac,uswc
dfcluieooc,uswcuyaecskhusfwamuSwcuf  kfafqikunfcuikalfwqgrulsflutouf
sfwahakccka'cuheppr;uyeluwqulskuxakfluhkptafgwjflwtqutoulskugfqhusk
vk lue uswcuf  kfafqikmuLsfl'cuyfivytqkmuSwcuclfaiskhuitggfacufqhuxtl-e 
cswal-oatqlcunkakufiswkdkpkqlcutouisfafilkamuSkusfhuykkquteluqkfagr
lsakkurkfac;ufqh,ugflka,uWuiteghuqtluskg ufcvwqxuswpustnuskupfqfxkhult
c taluceisugwqkqmuSkusfhu.eclulskuofwqlkcluygecs,ufqhucfwhupthkclgr,
'W'dkuykkqulkfiswqxutqkutoulskuqflwdkuntpkqufytelulskuclflwtqmuWlunfc
hwoowieglmuCskusfhufuhwclfclkuotaulskuntavm'uLseculswcupfqusfhudkawgr
fiitp gwcskhuctpklswqxmuFqhuskunfcuhkdtlkhultuswcuyttvc,unswisunkakuwq
f  gk- wkutahkam

“Kdkarlswqxukgckuwqulskuclflwtqunfcuwqufupehhgk--skfhc,ulswqxc,
yewghwqxcmuClawqxcutouheclruqwxxkacunwlsuc gfruokklufaawdkhufqh
hk falkh;ufuclakfputoupfqeofileakhuxtthc,uaeyywcsruitlltqc,uykfhc,
fqhuyafcc-nwakuckqluwqltulskuhk lscutouhfavqkcc,ufqhuwquakleaquifpkuf
 akiwteculawivgkutouwdtarm

“Wusfhultunfwluwqulskuclflwtquotaulkquhfrc--fquklkaqwlrmuWugwdkhuwquf
seluwqulskurfah,uyelultuykutelutoulskuisftcuWunteghuctpklwpkcuxkluwqlt
lskufiiteqlfql'cutoowikmuWlunfcuyewglutoustawjtqlfgu gfqvc,ufqhuctuyfhgr
 elultxklskaulsfl,ufcuskuykqlutdkauswcuswxsuhkcv,uskunfcuyfaakhuoatp
qkivultuskkgcunwlsuqfaatnuclaw cutouceqgwxslmuLskakunfcuqtuqkkhult
t kqulskuywxucsellkaultuckkmuWlunfcustlulskak,ultt;uywxuogwkcuyejjkh
owkqhwcsgr,ufqhuhwhuqtluclwqx,uyeluclfyykhmuWucfluxkqkafggrutqulsk
ogtta,unswgk,utouofeglgkccuf  kfafqiku(fqhukdkqucgwxslgrucikqlkh),
 kaiswqxutqufuswxsuclttg,uskunatlk,uskunatlkmuCtpklwpkcuskucltthue uota
kbkaiwckmuNskqufulaeivgk-ykhunwlsufucwivupfqu(ctpkuwqdfgwhufxkqluoatp
e iteqlar)unfcu eluwqulskak,uskukbswywlkhufuxkqlgkufqqtrfqikmu'Lsk
xatfqcutoulswcucwivu kactq,'uskucfwh,u'hwclafiluprufllkqlwtqmuFqh
nwlstelulsfluwluwcukblakpkgruhwoowieglultuxefahufxfwqcluigkawifgukaatac
wqulswcuigwpflkm'

“Tqkuhfruskuakpfavkh,unwlstelugwolwqxuswcuskfh,u'Wqulskuwqlkawtaurte
nwgguqtuhteylupkkluPamuVealjm'uTquprufcvwqxunstuPamuVealjunfc,usk
cfwhuskunfcufuowacl-igfccufxkql;ufqhuckkwqxupruhwcf  twqlpkqlufl
lswcuwqotapflwtq,uskufhhkhucgtngr,ugfrwqxuhtnquswcu kq,u'Skuwcufudkar
akpfavfygku kactqm'uOealskauzekclwtqcukgwiwlkhuoatpuswpulsfluPamuVealj
nfcuflu akckqluwquisfaxkutoufulafhwqx- tcl,ufudkaruwp talfqlutqk,uwqulsk
laekuwdtar-iteqlar,uflu'lskudkaruytlltputoulskakmuCkqhcuwqufcupeisuwdtar
fcufggulskutlskacu elultxklskammm'uSkuykxfqultunawlkufxfwqmuLskucwiv
pfqunfculttuwggultuxatfqmuLskuogwkcuyejjkhuwqufuxakflu kfikm

“Cehhkqgrulskakunfcufuxatnwqxupeapeautoudtwikcufqhufuxakflulafp wqxuto
okklmuFuifafdfqusfhuitpkuwqmuFudwtgkqluyfyygkutoueqitelsucteqhcuyeacl
telutqulskutlskaucwhkutoulsku gfqvcmuFggulskuifaawkacunkakuc kfvwqx
ltxklska,ufqhuwqulskupwhclutoulskue atfaulskugfpkqlfygkudtwikutoulsk
iswkoufxkqlunfcuskfahu'xwdwqxuwlue 'ulkfaoeggruotaulskulnkqlwklsulwpk
lsfluhfrmmmmuSkuatckucgtngrmu'Nsflufuoawxsloeguatn,'uskucfwhmuSk
iatcckhulskuattpuxkqlgrultugttvuflulskucwivupfq,ufqhuakleaqwqx,ucfwhult
pk,u'Skuhtkcuqtluskfam'u'Nsfl!uHkfh?'uWufcvkh,uclfalgkhmu'Qt,uqtlurkl,'
skufqcnkakh,unwlsuxakfluitp tceakmuLskq,ufggehwqxunwlsufultccutoulsk
skfhultulskulepegluwqulskuclflwtq-rfah,u'Nskqutqkusfcuxtlultupfvk
itaakilukqlawkc,utqkuitpkcultusflkulstckucfdfxkc--sflkulskpultulsk
hkflsm'uSkuakpfwqkhulstexsloeguotaufuptpkqlmu'NskqurteuckkuPamuVealj'
skunkqlutq,u'lkgguswpuoatpupkulsflukdkarlswqxuskak'--skuxgfqikhuflulsk
hkiv--'uwcudkarucflwcofiltarmuWuhtq'lugwvkultunawlkultuswp--nwlsulstck
pkcckqxkacutouteacurteuqkdkauvqtnunstupfruxklustghutourteaugkllka--fl
lsfluIkqlafguClflwtqm'uSkuclfakhuflupkuotaufuptpkqlunwlsuswcupwgh,
yegxwqxukrkcmu'Ts,uskunwgguxtuofa,udkaruofa,'uskuykxfqufxfwqmu'Sk
nwgguykufuctpkythruwqulskuFhpwqwclaflwtquykotakugtqxmuLskr,ufytdk--lsk
IteqiwguwquKeat k,urteuvqtn--pkfquswpultuykm'

“SkuleaqkhultuswcuntavmuLskuqtwckutelcwhkusfhuikfckh,ufqhu akckqlgr
wquxtwqxuteluWuclt  khuflulskuhttamuWqulskuclkfhruyejjutouogwkculsk
stpknfah-yteqhufxkqlunfcugrwqxuowqwcskhufqhuwqckqcwygk;ulskutlska,
ykqlutdkauswcuyttvc,unfcupfvwqxuitaakilukqlawkcutou kaokilgruitaakil
lafqcfilwtqc;ufqhuowolruokkluykgtnulskuhttaclk uWuiteghuckkulskuclwgg
lakk-lt cutoulskuxatdkutouhkflsm

“QkbluhfruWugkolulsfluclflwtquflugfcl,unwlsufuifafdfqutoucwblrupkq,uota
fulnt-seqhakh-pwgkulafp m

“Qtueckulkggwqxurteupeisufytelulsflmu flsc,u flsc,ukdkarnskak;uf
clfp kh-wquqklntavutou flscuc akfhwqxutdkaulskukp lrugfqh,ulsatexsulsk
gtqxuxafcc,ulsatexsuyeaqluxafcc,ulsatexsulswivklc,uhtnqufqhue uiswggr
afdwqkc,ue ufqhuhtnqucltqruswggcufygfjkunwlsuskfl;ufqhufuctgwlehk,uf
ctgwlehk,uqtythr,uqtlufuselmuLsku t egflwtqusfhuigkfakhutelufugtqx
lwpkufxtmuNkgg,uwoufugtlutouprclkawtecuqwxxkacufapkhunwlsufgguvwqhcuto
okfaoegunkf tqcucehhkqgrulttvultulafdkggwqxutqulskuatfhuyklnkkquHkfgufqh
Xafdkckqh,uifliswqxulskurtvkgcuawxslufqhugkolultuifaaruskfdrugtfhcuota
lskp,uWuofqirukdkaruofapufqhuitllfxkulskakfytelcunteghuxklukp lrudkar
cttqmuTqgruskakulskuhnkggwqxcunkakuxtqk,ulttmuClwgguWu fcckhulsatexs
ckdkafgufyfqhtqkhudwggfxkcmuLskak'cuctpklswqxu flsklwifggruiswghwcsuwq
lskuaewqcutouxafccunfggcmuHfrufolkauhfr,unwlsulskuclfp ufqhucseoogkuto
cwblru fwautouyfakuokkluykswqhupk,ukfisu fwaueqhkaufu60-gymugtfhmuIfp ,
ittv,ucgkk ,uclawvkuifp ,upfaismuQtnufqhulskqufuifaawkauhkfhuwqusfaqkcc,
fluakcluwqulskugtqxuxafccuqkfaulsku fls,unwlsufqukp lrunflka-xteahufqh
swcugtqxuclfoougrwqxuyruswcucwhkmuFuxakflucwgkqikufateqhufqhufytdkm
 kasf cutquctpkuzewkluqwxslulskulakptautouofa-toouhaepc,ucwqvwqx,
cnkggwqx,ufulakptaudfcl,uofwql;ufucteqhunkwah,uf  kfgwqx,ucexxkclwdk,
fqhunwgh--fqhu kasf cunwlsufcu atoteqhufupkfqwqxufculskucteqhutouykggc
wqufuIsawclwfquiteqlarmuTqikufunswlkupfquwqufqueqyelltqkhueqwotap,
ifp wqxutqulsku flsunwlsufqufapkhukcitalutougfqvuJfqjwyfawc,udkar
stc wlfygkufqhuokclwdk--qtlultucfruhaeqvmuNfcugttvwqxufolkaulskue vkk 
toulskuatfh,uskuhkigfakhmuIfq'lucfruWucfnufqruatfhutaufqrue vkk ,ueqgkcc
lskuythrutoufupwhhgk-fxkhuqkxat,unwlsufuyeggkl-stgkuwqulskuotakskfh,
e tqunswisuWufyctgelkgruclepygkhulsakkupwgkcuofalskautq,upfruyk
itqcwhkakhufcufu kapfqkqluwp atdkpkqlmuWusfhufunswlkuitp fqwtq,ultt,
qtlufuyfhuisf ,uyeluaflskaulttuogkcsrufqhunwlsulskukbfc kaflwqxusfywl
touofwqlwqxutqulskustluswggcwhkc,upwgkcufnfruoatpulskugkfcluywlutoucsfhk
fqhunflkamuFqqtrwqx,urteuvqtn,ultustghurteautnquitflugwvkufu fafctgutdka
fupfq'cuskfhunswgkuskuwcuitpwqxultmuWuiteghq'luskg ufcvwqxuswputqikunsfl
skupkfqluyruitpwqxulskakuflufggmu'Ltupfvkuptqkr,utouiteackmuNsfluhturte
lswqv?'uskucfwh,ucitaqoeggrmuLskquskuxtluokdka,ufqhusfhultuykuifaawkhuwq
fusfpptivucgeqxueqhkaufu tgkmuFcuskunkwxskhucwblkkqucltqkuWusfhuqtukqh
touatncunwlsulskuifaawkacmuLskru.wyykh,uafqufnfr,ucqkfvkhutoounwlsulskwa
gtfhcuwqulskuqwxsl--zewlkufupelwqrmuCt,utqkukdkqwqx,uWupfhkufuc kkisuwq
Kqxgwcsunwlsuxkcleakc,uqtlutqkutounswisunfcugtclultulskucwblru fwacuto
krkcuykotakupk,ufqhulskuqkbluptaqwqxuWuclfalkhulskusfpptivutoouwquoatql
fgguawxslmuFqusteaufolkanfahcuWuifpkue tqulskunstgkuitqikaqunakivkhuwq
fuyecs--pfq,usfpptiv,uxatfqc,uygfqvklc,ustaatacmuLskuskfdru tgkusfh
cvwqqkhuswcu ttauqtckmuSkunfcudkarufqbwtecuotaupkultuvwgguctpkythr,
yelulskakunfcq'lulskucsfhtnutoufuifaawkauqkfamuWuakpkpykakhulskutgh
htilta--'Wlunteghuykuwqlkakclwqxuotauciwkqikultunflisulskupkqlfguisfqxkc
touwqhwdwhefgc,utqulskuc tlm'uWuokgluWunfcuykitpwqxuciwkqlwowifggr
wqlkakclwqxmuStnkdka,ufggulsfluwcultuqtu ea tckmuTqulskuowolkkqlsuhfr
Wuifpkuwqucwxslutoulskuywxuawdkaufxfwq,ufqhustyygkhuwqltulskuIkqlafg
ClflwtqmuWlunfcutqufuyfivunflkauceaateqhkhuyruciaeyufqhuotakcl,unwls
fu akllruytahkautoucpkggrupehutqutqkucwhk,ufqhutqulskulsakkutlskac
kqigtckhuyrufuiafjruokqikutouaecskcmuFuqkxgkilkhuxf unfcufggulskuxflk
wlusfh,ufqhulskuowacluxgfqikuflulsku gfikunfcukqtexsultugklurteuckkulsk
ogfyyruhkdwgunfcuaeqqwqxulsflucstnmuNswlkupkqunwlsugtqxuclfdkcuwqulskwa
sfqhcuf  kfakhugfqxewhgruoatpufptqxclulskuyewghwqxc,uclatggwqxue ult
lfvkufugttvuflupk,ufqhulskquaklwakhutelutoucwxsluctpknskakmuTqkutoulskp,
fucltel,ukbiwlfygkuisf unwlsuygfivupteclfiskc,uwqotapkhupkunwlsuxakfl
dtgeywgwlrufqhupfqruhwxakccwtqc,ufcucttqufcuWultghuswpunstuWunfc,ulsfl
pruclkfpkaunfcuflulskuytlltputoulskuawdkamuWunfculseqhkaclaeivmuNsfl,
stn,unsr?uTs,uwlunfcu'fgguawxslm'uLsku'pfqfxkauswpckgo'unfculskakmuFgg
zewlkuitaakilmu'Kdkarythrusfhuyksfdkhuc gkqhwhgr!uc gkqhwhgr!'--'rte
pecl,'uskucfwhuwqufxwlflwtq,u'xtufqhuckkulskuxkqkafgupfqfxkauflutqikmuSk
wcunfwlwqx!'

“WuhwhuqtluckkulskuakfgucwxqwowifqikutoulsflunakivuflutqikmuWuofqiruW
ckkuwluqtn,uyeluWufpuqtluceak--qtluflufggmuIkalfwqgrulskufoofwaunfcultt
cle wh--nskquWulswqvutouwl--ltuykufgltxklskauqfleafgmuClwggmmmuYel
flulskuptpkqluwlu akckqlkhuwlckgoucwp grufcufuitqoteqhkhuqewcfqikmuLsk
clkfpkaunfcuceqvmuLskrusfhuclfalkhulntuhfrcuykotakuwqufucehhkquseaar
e ulskuawdkaunwlsulskupfqfxkautquytfah,uwquisfaxkutouctpkudtgeqlkka
cvw  ka,ufqhuykotakulskrusfhuykkqutelulsakkusteaculskrultakulskuytlltp
telutouskautqucltqkc,ufqhucskucfqvuqkfaulskuctelsuyfqvmuWufcvkhuprckgo
nsfluWunfcultuhtulskak,uqtnupruytflunfcugtclmuFcufupfllkautouofil,uWusfh
 gkqlrultuhtuwquowcswqxupruitppfqhutelutoulskuawdkamuWusfhultucklufytel
wlulskudkaruqkbluhfrmuLsfl,ufqhulskuak fwacunskquWuyatexslulsku wkikcult
lskuclflwtq,ulttvuctpkuptqlscm

“PruowacluwqlkadwknunwlsulskupfqfxkaunfcuieawtecmuSkuhwhuqtlufcvupkult
cwluhtnqufolkauprulnkqlr-pwgkunfgvulsfluptaqwqxmuSkunfcuitpptq gfikuwq
itp gkbwtq,uwquokfleakc,uwqupfqqkac,ufqhuwqudtwikmuSkunfcutoupwhhgk
cwjkufqhutoutahwqfaruyewghmuSwcukrkc,utoulskuecefguygek,unkaku kasf c
akpfavfygruitgh,ufqhuskuikalfwqgruiteghupfvkuswcuxgfqikuofggutqutqkufc
lakqisfqlufqhuskfdrufcufqufbkmuYelukdkquflulskckulwpkculskuakclutouswc
 kactquckkpkhultuhwcigfwpulskuwqlkqlwtqmuTlskanwckulskakunfc
tqgrufquwqhkowqfygk,uofwqlukb akccwtqutouswcugw c,uctpklswqx
clkfglsr--fucpwgk--qtlufucpwgk--Wuakpkpykauwl,uyeluWuifq'lukb gfwqmuWl
nfcueqitqciwtec,ulswcucpwgkunfc,ulstexsu.eclufolkauskusfhucfwhuctpklswqx
wluxtluwqlkqcwowkhuotaufquwqclfqlmuWluifpkuflulskukqhutouswcuc kkiskc
gwvkufuckfguf  gwkhutqulskuntahcultupfvkulskupkfqwqxutoulskuitpptqkcl
 safckuf  kfaufyctgelkgruwqciaelfygkmuSkunfcufuitpptqulafhka,uoatpuswc
rtelsue ukp gtrkhuwqulskcku falc--qtlswqxuptakmuSkunfcutykrkh,urklusk
wqc wakhuqkwlskaugtdkuqtauokfa,uqtaukdkquakc kilmuSkuwqc wakh
eqkfcwqkccmuLsflunfcuwl!uEqkfcwqkccmuQtlufuhkowqwlkupwclaecl--.ecl
eqkfcwqkcc--qtlswqxuptakmuRteusfdkuqtuwhkfustnukookilwdkuceisufmmm
fmmmuofieglruifquykmuSkusfhuqtuxkqwecuotautaxfqwjwqx,uotauwqwlwflwdk,
tauotautahkaukdkqmuLsflunfcukdwhkqluwquceisulswqxcufculskuhk gtafygk
clflkutoulskuclflwtqmuSkusfhuqtugkfaqwqx,ufqhuqtuwqlkggwxkqikmuSwc
 tcwlwtqusfhuitpkultuswp--nsr?u kasf cuykifeckuskunfcuqkdkauwggmmmuSk
sfhuckadkhulsakkulkapcutoulsakkurkfacutelulskakmmmuYkifeckulawep sfql
skfglsuwqulskuxkqkafguatelutouitqclwlelwtqcuwcufuvwqhutou tnka
wquwlckgomuNskquskunkqlustpkutqugkfdkuskuawtlkhutqufugfaxk
cifgk-- tp tecgrmu.fivufcstak--nwlsufuhwookakqik--wqukblkaqfgcutqgrm
LswcutqkuiteghuxflskauoatpuswcuifcefgulfgvmuSkutawxwqflkhuqtlswqx,usk
iteghuvkk ulskuatelwqkuxtwqx--lsfl'cufggmuYeluskunfcuxakflmuSkunfcuxakfl
yrulswcugwllgkulswqxulsfluwlunfcuwp tccwygkultulkggunsfluiteghuitqlatg
ceisufupfqmuSkuqkdkauxfdkulsfluckiaklufnfrmu kasf culskakunfcuqtlswqx
nwlswquswpmuCeisufucec wiwtqupfhkutqku feck--otautelulskakulskakunkakuqt
kblkaqfguiskivcmuTqikunskqudfawteculat wifguhwckfckcusfhugfwhugtnufgptcl
kdkaru'fxkql'uwqulskuclflwtq,uskunfcuskfahultucfr,u'Pkqunstuitpkutel
skakucsteghusfdkuqtukqlafwgcm'uSkuckfgkhulskuellkafqikunwlsulsflucpwgk
touswc,ufculstexsuwlusfhuykkqufuhttaut kqwqxuwqltufuhfavqkccuskusfhuwq
swcuvkk wqxmuRteuofqiwkhurteusfhuckkqulswqxc--yelulskuckfgunfcutqmuNskq
fqqtrkhuflupkfg-lwpkcuyrulskuitqclfqluzefaakgcutoulskunswlkupkqufytel
 akikhkqik,uskutahkakhufquwppkqckuateqhulfygkultuykupfhk,uotaunswisuf
c kiwfgusteckusfhultuykuyewglmuLswcunfculskuclflwtq'cupkcc-attpmuNskak
skucflunfculskuowaclu gfik--lskuakclunkakuqtnskakmuTqkuokglulswcultuyk
swcueqfglkafygkuitqdwilwtqmuSkunfcuqkwlskauiwdwguqtaueqiwdwgmuSkunfc
zewklmuSkufggtnkhuswcu'ytr'--fqutdkaokhurteqxuqkxatuoatpulskuitfcl--lt
lakflulskunswlkupkq,ueqhkauswcudkarukrkc,unwlsu atdtvwqxuwqctgkqikm

“Skuykxfqultuc kfvufcucttqufcuskucfnupkmuWusfhuykkqudkarugtqxutqulsk
atfhmuSkuiteghuqtlunfwlmuSfhultuclfalunwlstelupkmuLskue -awdkauclflwtqc
sfhultuykuakgwkdkhmuLskakusfhuykkquctupfqruhkgfrcufgakfhrulsfluskuhwh
qtluvqtnunstunfcuhkfhufqhunstunfcufgwdk,ufqhustnulskruxtlutq--fqhuctutq,
fqhuctutqmuSku fwhuqtufllkqlwtqultuprukb gfqflwtqc,ufqh,u gfrwqxunwls
fuclwivutouckfgwqx-nfb,uak kflkhuckdkafgulwpkculsflulskucwleflwtqunfc
'dkaruxafdk,udkaruxafdkm'uLskakunkakuaepteaculsflufudkaruwp talfql
clflwtqunfcuwqu.kt fahr,ufqhuwlcuiswko,uPamuVealj,unfcuwggmuSt khuwlunfc
qtlulaekmuPamuVealjunfcmmmuWuokglunkfarufqhuwaawlfygkmuSfqxuVealj,
WulstexslmuWuwqlkaae lkhuswpuyrucfrwqxuWusfhuskfahutouPamuVealjutqulsk
itfclmu'Fs!uCtulskrulfgvutouswpuhtnqulskak,'uskupeapeakhultuswpckgom
Lskquskuykxfqufxfwq,ufcceawqxupkuPamuVealjunfculskuykclufxkqluskusfh,ufq
kbik lwtqfgupfq,utoulskuxakflkcluwp talfqikultulskuItp fqr;ulskakotak
WuiteghueqhkaclfqhuswcufqbwklrmuSkunfc,uskucfwh,u'dkar,udkarueqkfcrm'
Ikalfwqgruskuowhxklkhutquswcuisfwaufuxtthuhkfg,ukbigfwpkh,u'Fs,uPam
Vealj!'uyatvkulskuclwivutouckfgwqx-nfbufqhuckkpkhuhepoteqhkhuyrulsk
fiiwhkqlmuQkblulswqxuskunfqlkhultuvqtnu'stnugtqxuwlunteghulfvkult'mmm
Wuwqlkaae lkhuswpufxfwqmuYkwqxuseqxar,urteuvqtn,ufqhuvk lutqupruokkl
lttmuWunfcuxkllwqxucfdfxkmu'StnuifquWulkgg?'uWucfwhmu'Wusfdkq'lukdkq
ckkqulskunakivurkl--ctpkuptqlsc,uqtuhteylm'uFggulswculfgvuckkpkhultupk
ctuoelwgkmu'Ctpkuptqlsc,'uskucfwhmu'Nkgg,ugkluecucfrulsakkuptqlscuykotak
nkuifqupfvkufuclfalmuRkcmuLsflutexslultuhtulskufoofwam'uWuogeqxutel
touswcuselu(skugwdkhufggufgtqkuwqufuigfruselunwlsufuctalutoudkafqhfs)
pellkawqxultuprckgouprut wqwtqutouswpmuSkunfcufuisfllkawqxuwhwtlm
FolkanfahcuWulttvuwluyfivunskquwlunfcuytaqkuwque tqupkuclfalgwqxgr
nwlsunsflukblakpkuqwiklruskusfhukclwpflkhulskulwpkuakzewcwlkuotaulsk
'foofwam'

“Wunkqlultuntavulskuqkbluhfr,uleaqwqx,uctultuc kfv,upruyfivutqulsfl
clflwtqmuWqulsflunfrutqgruwluckkpkhultupkuWuiteghuvkk uprustghutqulsk
akhkkpwqxuofilcutougwokmuClwgg,utqkupeclugttvufyteluctpklwpkc;ufqhulskq
Wucfnulswcuclflwtq,ulskckupkquclatggwqxufwpgkccgrufyteluwqulskuceqcswqk
toulskurfahmuWufcvkhuprckgouctpklwpkcunsfluwlufggupkfqlmuLskrunfqhkakh
skakufqhulskakunwlsulskwaufyceahugtqxuclfdkcuwqulskwausfqhc,ugwvkufugtl
touofwlsgkccu wgxawpcuyknwliskhuwqcwhkufuatllkquokqikmuLskuntahu'wdtar'
afqxuwqulskufwa,unfcunswc kakh,unfcucwxskhmuRteunteghulswqvulskrunkak
 afrwqxultuwlmuFulfwqlutouwpykiwgkuaf fiwlruygknulsatexsuwlufgg,ugwvkuf
nswoouoatpuctpkuita ckmuYru.tdk!uW'dkuqkdkauckkqufqrlswqxuctueqakfguwq
prugwokmuFqhutelcwhk,ulskucwgkqlunwghkaqkccuceaateqhwqxulswcuigkfakh
c kivutqulskukfalsuclaeivupkufcuctpklswqxuxakflufqhuwqdwqiwygk,ugwvk
kdwgutaulaels,unfwlwqxu flwkqlgruotaulsku fccwqxufnfrutoulswcuofqlfclwi
wqdfcwtqm

“Ts,ulskckuptqlsc!uNkgg,uqkdkaupwqhmuDfawteculswqxcusf  kqkhmuTqk
kdkqwqxufuxafccucskhuoeggutouifgwit,uitlltqu awqlc,uykfhc,ufqhuWuhtq'l
vqtnunsflukgck,uyeacluwqltufuygfjkuctucehhkqgrulsflurteunteghusfdk
lstexslulskukfalsusfhut kqkhultugklufqufdkqxwqxuowakuitqcepkufggulsfl
lafcsmuWunfcucptvwqxupru w kuzewklgruyrupruhwcpfqlgkhuclkfpka,ufqhucfn
lskpufgguiellwqxuif kacuwqulskugwxsl,unwlsulskwaufapcugwolkhuswxs,unskq
lskucltelupfqunwlsupteclfiskcuifpkulkfawqxuhtnqultulskuawdka,ufulwq
 fwguwquswcusfqh,ufcceakhupkulsflukdkarythrunfcu'yksfdwqxuc gkqhwhgr,
c gkqhwhgr,'uhw  khufytelufuzefalutounflkaufqhultakuyfivufxfwqmuW
qtlwikhulskakunfcufustgkuwqulskuytlltputouswcu fwgm

“Wuclatggkhue muLskakunfcuqtuseaarmuRteuckkulskulswqxusfhuxtqkutoougwvk
fuytbutoupfliskcmuWlusfhuykkqust kgkccuoatpulskudkaruowaclmuLskuogfpk
sfhugkf khuswxs,uhawdkqukdkarythruyfiv,ugwxslkhue ukdkarlswqx--fqh
itggf ckhmuLskucskhunfcufgakfhrufuskf utoukpykacuxgtnwqxuowkaikgrmuF
qwxxkaunfcuykwqxuykflkquqkfauyrmuLskrucfwhuskusfhuifeckhulskuowakuwq
ctpkunfr;uykulsflufcuwlupfr,uskunfcuciakkiswqxuptclustaawygrmuWucfnuswp,
gflka,uotauckdkafguhfrc,ucwllwqxuwqufuywlutoucsfhkugttvwqxudkarucwivufqh
larwqxultuakitdkauswpckgo;ufolkanfahcuskufatckufqhunkqlutel--fqh
lskunwghkaqkccunwlstelufucteqhulttvuswpuwqltuwlcuytctpufxfwqmuFcuW
f  atfiskhulskuxgtnuoatpulskuhfavuWuoteqhuprckgouflulskuyfivutoulntupkq,
lfgvwqxmuWuskfahulskuqfpkutouVealju atqteqikh,ulskqulskuntahc,u'lfvk
fhdfqlfxkutoulswcueqotaleqflkufiiwhkqlm'uTqkutoulskupkqunfculskupfqfxkam
Wunwcskhuswpufuxtthukdkqwqxmu'Hwhurteukdkauckkufqrlswqxugwvkuwl--ks?uwl
wcuwqiakhwygk,'uskucfwh,ufqhunfgvkhutoomuLskutlskaupfquakpfwqkhmuSkunfc
fuowacl-igfccufxkql,urteqx,uxkqlgkpfqgr,ufuywluakckadkh,unwlsufuotavkh
gwllgkuykfahufqhufusttvkhuqtckmuSkunfcuclfqh-toowcsunwlsulskutlska
fxkqlc,ufqhulskrutqulskwaucwhkucfwhuskunfculskupfqfxka'cuc rue tqulskpm
Fcultupk,uWusfhusfahgrukdkauc tvkqultuswpuykotakmuNkuxtluwqltulfgv,ufqh
yrufqhuyrunkuclatggkhufnfruoatpulskuswccwqxuaewqcmuLskquskufcvkhupkult
swcuattp,unswisunfcuwqulskupfwquyewghwqxutoulskuclflwtqmuSkuclaeiv
fupflis,ufqhuWu kaikwdkhulsflulswcurteqxufawcltiaflusfhuqtlutqgruf
cwgdka-pteqlkhuhakccwqx-ifckuyelufgctufunstgkuifqhgkufggultuswpckgom
.ecluflulsflulwpkulskupfqfxkaunfculskutqgrupfquce  tckhultusfdkufqr
awxslultuifqhgkcmuQflwdkupflcuitdkakhulskuigfrunfggc;ufuitggkilwtquto
c kfac,ufcckxfwc,ucswkghc,uvqwdkcunfcuseqxue uwqulat swkcmuLskuyecwqkcc
wqlaeclkhultulswcuokggtnunfculskupfvwqxutouyawivc--ctuWusfhuykkq
wqotapkh;uyelulskakunfcq'lufuoafxpkqlutoufuyawivufqrnskakuwqulsk
clflwtq,ufqhuskusfhuykkqulskakuptakulsfqufurkfa--nfwlwqxmuWluckkpcusk
iteghuqtlupfvkuyawivcunwlsteluctpklswqx,uWuhtq'luvqtnunsfl--clafnupfrykm
Fqrnfr,uwluiteghuqtluykuoteqhulskakufqhufcuwlunfcuqtlugwvkgrultuykuckql
oatpuKeat k,uwluhwhuqtluf  kfauigkfaultupkunsfluskunfcunfwlwqxuotamuFq
filutouc kiwfguiakflwtqu kasf cmuStnkdka,ulskrunkakufggunfwlwqx--fgg
lskucwblkkqutaulnkqlru wgxawpcutoulskp--otauctpklswqx;ufqhue tqupruntah
wluhwhuqtluckkpufqueqitqxkqwfgutiie flwtq,uoatpulskunfrulskrulttvuwl,
lstexsulskutqgrulswqxulsflukdkauifpkultulskpunfcuhwckfck--fcuofaufcuW
iteghuckkmuLskruykxewgkhulskulwpkuyruyfiv-ywlwqxufqhuwqlawxewqxufxfwqcl
kfisutlskauwqufuottgwcsuvwqhutounfrmuLskakunfcufqufwautou gtllwqxufytel
lsfluclflwtq,uyeluqtlswqxuifpkutouwl,utouiteackmuWlunfcufcueqakfgufc
kdkarlswqxukgck--fculsku swgfqlsat wiu aklkqikutoulskunstgkuitqikaq,ufc
lskwaulfgv,ufculskwauxtdkaqpkql,ufculskwaucstnutountavmuLskutqgruakfg
okkgwqxunfcufuhkcwakultuxkluf  twqlkhultufulafhwqx- tclunskakuwdtar
nfcultuykusfh,uctulsflulskruiteghukfaqu kaikqlfxkcmuLskruwqlawxekh
fqhucgfqhkakhufqhusflkhukfisutlskautqgrutqulsflufiiteql--yelufcult
kookilefggrugwolwqxufugwllgkuowqxka--ts,uqtmuYruskfdkqc!ulskakuwc
ctpklswqxufolkaufgguwqulskuntaghufggtnwqxutqkupfqultuclkfgufustackunswgk
fqtlskaupecluqtlugttvuflufusfglkamuClkfgufustackuclafwxslutelmuDkar
nkggmuSkusfcuhtqkuwlmu kasf cuskuifquawhkmuYelulskakuwcufunfrutougttvwqx
flufusfglkaulsflunteghu atdtvkulskuptcluisfawlfygkutoucfwqlcuwqltuf
vwivm

“Wusfhuqtuwhkfunsruskunfqlkhultuykuctiwfygk,uyelufcunkuisfllkhuwq
lskakuwlucehhkqgrutiieaakhultupkulskuokggtnunfcularwqxultuxklufl
ctpklswqx--wquofil,u ep wqxupkmuSkufggehkhuitqclfqlgrultuKeat k,ultulsk
 kt gkuWunfcuce  tckhultuvqtnulskak-- ellwqxugkfhwqxuzekclwtqcufcultupr
fizefwqlfqikcuwqulskuck egisafguiwlr,ufqhuctutqmuSwcugwllgkukrkc
xgwllkakhugwvkupwifuhwcic--nwlsuieawtcwlr--lstexsuskulawkhultuvkk ue uf
ywlutouce kaiwgwtecqkccmuFluowacluWunfcufcltqwcskh,uyeludkaructtquW
ykifpkufnoeggruieawtecultuckkunsfluskunteghuowqhuteluoatpupkmuWuiteghq'l
 tccwygruwpfxwqkunsfluWusfhuwqupkultupfvkuwluntalsuswcunswgkmuWlunfc
dkaru akllrultuckkustnuskuyfoogkhuswpckgo,uotauwqulaelsupruythrunfcuoegg
tqgrutouiswggc,ufqhupruskfhusfhuqtlswqxuwquwluyelulsflunakliskh
clkfpytfluyecwqkccmuWlunfcukdwhkqluskulttvupkuotaufu kaokilgrucsfpkgkcc
 akdfawifltamuFlugfcluskuxtlufqxar,ufqh,ultuitqikfgufuptdkpkqluto
oeawtecufqqtrfqik,uskurfnqkhmuWuatckmuLskquWuqtlwikhufucpfggucvklisuwq
twgc,utqufu fqkg,uak akckqlwqxufuntpfq,uhaf khufqhuygwqhotghkh,uifaarwqx
fugwxslkhultaismuLskuyfivxateqhunfcuctpyak--fgptcluygfivmuLskuptdkpkql
toulskuntpfqunfcuclflkgr,ufqhulskukookilutoulskultaisgwxslutqulskuofik
nfcucwqwclkam

“Wlufaakclkhupk,ufqhuskucltthuyruiwdwggr,ustghwqxufqukp lrusfgo- wql
isfp fxqkuytllgku(pkhwifguitpotalc)unwlsulskuifqhgkucleivuwquwlmuLtupr
zekclwtquskucfwhuPamuVealjusfhu fwqlkhulswc--wqulswcudkaruclflwtquptak
lsfqufurkfaufxt--nswgkunfwlwqxuotaupkfqcultuxtultuswculafhwqxu tclm
'Lkggupk,u afr,'ucfwhuW,u'nstuwculswcuPamuVealj?'

“'LskuiswkoutoulskuWqqkauClflwtq,'uskufqcnkakhuwqufucstalultqk,ugttvwqx
fnfrmu'Peisutygwxkh,'uWucfwh,ugfexswqxmu'Fqhurteufakulskuyawivpfvkauto
lskuIkqlafguClflwtqmuKdkarutqkuvqtnculsflm'uSkunfcucwgkqluotaufunswgkm
'Skuwcufu athwxr,'uskucfwhuflugfclmu'Skuwcufqukpwccfarutou wlrufqh
ciwkqikufqhu atxakcc,ufqhuhkdwguvqtncunsflukgckmuNkunfql,'uskuykxfq
ltuhkigfwpucehhkqgr,u'otaulskuxewhfqikutoulskuifeckuwqlaeclkhultuecuyr
Keat k,uctultuc kfv,uswxskauwqlkggwxkqik,unwhkucrp flswkc,ufucwqxgkqkcc
tou ea tckm'u'Nstucfrculsfl?'uWufcvkhmu'Gtlcutoulskp,'uskuak gwkhmu'Ctpk
kdkqunawlkulsfl;ufqhuctu_sk_uitpkcuskak,ufuc kiwfguykwqx,ufcurteutexslult
vqtnm'u'NsrutexsluWultuvqtn?'uWuwqlkaae lkh,uakfggrucea awckhmuSku fwh
qtufllkqlwtqmu'RkcmuLthfruskuwcuiswkoutoulskuykcluclflwtq,uqkblurkfausk
nwgguykufccwclfql-pfqfxka,ulnturkfacuptakufqhmmmuyeluWuhfak-cfrurte
vqtnunsfluskunwgguykuwqulnturkfac'ulwpkmuRteufakutoulskuqknuxfqx--lsk
xfqxutoudwalekmuLskucfpku kt gkunstuckqluswpuc kiwfggrufgctuakitppkqhkh
rtemuTs,uhtq'lucfruqtmuW'dkuprutnqukrkcultulaeclm'uGwxsluhfnqkhue tqupkm
Pruhkfaufeql'cuwqogekqlwfgufizefwqlfqikcunkaku atheiwqxufqueqkb kilkh
kookilue tqulsflurteqxupfqmuWuqkfagruyeacluwqltufugfexsmu'Hturteuakfh
lskuItp fqr'cuitqowhkqlwfguitaakc tqhkqik?'uWufcvkhmuSkusfhq'lufuntah
ltucfrmuWlunfcuxakfluoeqmu'NskquPamuVealj,'uWuitqlwqekh,uckdkakgr,u'wc
XkqkafguPfqfxka,urteuntq'lusfdkulskut  taleqwlrm'

“Skuygknulskuifqhgkutelucehhkqgr,ufqhunkunkqlutelcwhkmuLskupttqusfh
awckqmuYgfivuowxeakcuclatggkhufytelugwclgkccgr,u teawqxunflkautq
lskuxgtn,unskqiku atikkhkhufucteqhutouswccwqx;uclkfpufcikqhkhuwqulsk
pttqgwxsl,ulskuykflkquqwxxkauxatfqkhuctpknskakmu'Nsflufuatnulskuyaelk
pfvkc!'ucfwhulskuwqhkoflwxfygkupfqunwlsulskupteclfiskc,uf  kfawqx
qkfauecmu'CkadkuswpuawxslmuLafqcxakccwtq-- eqwcspkql--yfqx!u wlwgkcc,
 wlwgkccmuLsfl'culskutqgrunfrmuLswcunwggu akdkqlufgguitqogfxaflwtqc
otaulskuoeleakmuWunfcu.eclulkggwqxulskupfqfxkammm'uSkuqtlwikhupr
itp fqwtq,ufqhuykifpkuiakclofggkqufgguflutqikmu'Qtluwquykhurkl,'
skucfwh,unwlsufuvwqhutouckadwgkuskfalwqkcc;u'wl'cuctuqfleafgmuSf!
Hfqxka--fxwlflwtqm'uSkudfqwcskhmuWunkqlutqultulskuawdkacwhk,ufqh
lskutlskauotggtnkhupkmuWuskfahufuciflswqxupeapeaufluprukfa,u'Skf 
toupeooc--xtultm'uLsku wgxawpcuiteghuykuckkquwquvqtlcuxkclwiegflwqx,
hwcieccwqxmuCkdkafgusfhuclwggulskwauclfdkcuwqulskwausfqhcmuWudkawgr
ykgwkdkulskrulttvulskckuclwivcultuykhunwlsulskpmuYkrtqhulskuokqikulsk
otakclucltthue uc kilafggruwqulskupttqgwxsl,ufqhulsatexsulsfluhwpuclwa,
lsatexsulskuofwqlucteqhcutoulsflugfpkqlfygkuitealrfah,ulskucwgkqikuto
lskugfqhunkqlustpkultutqk'cudkaruskfal--wlcuprclkar,uwlcuxakflqkcc,ulsk
fpfjwqxuakfgwlrutouwlcuitqikfgkhugwokmuLskusealuqwxxkauptfqkhuokkygr
ctpknskakuqkfauyr,ufqhulskquokliskhufuhkk ucwxsulsflupfhkupkupkqhupr
 fikufnfruoatpulskakmuWuokglufusfqhuwqlatheiwqxuwlckgoueqhkauprufapm
'Pruhkfaucwa,'ucfwhulskuokggtn,u'Wuhtq'lunfqlultuykupwceqhkacltth,ufqh
kc kiwfggruyrurte,unstunwgguckkuPamuVealjugtqxuykotakuWuifqusfdk
lsflu gkfceakmuWunteghq'lugwvkuswpultuxklufuofgckuwhkfutoupr
hwc tcwlwtqmmmm'

“Wugkluswpuaequtq,ulswcu_ f wka-pfisk_uPk swclt skgkc,ufqhuwluckkpkhultupk
lsfluwouWulawkhuWuiteghu tvkupruotakowqxkaulsatexsuswp,ufqhunteghuowqh
qtlswqxuwqcwhkuyelufugwllgkugttckuhwal,upfrykmuSk,uhtq'lurteuckk,usfh
ykkqu gfqqwqxultuykufccwclfql-pfqfxkauyrufqhuyrueqhkaulsku akckqlupfq,
fqhuWuiteghuckkulsflulskuitpwqxutoulsfluVealjusfhue cklulskpuytlsuqtluf
gwllgkmuSkulfgvkhu akiw wlflkgr,ufqhuWuhwhuqtlularultuclt uswpmuWusfhupr
csteghkacufxfwqclulskunakivutoupruclkfpka,usfegkhue utqulskucgt kugwvkuf
ifaifccutouctpkuywxuawdkaufqwpfgmuLskucpkggutoupeh,utou awpkdfgupeh,
yru.tdk!unfcuwqupruqtclawgc,ulskuswxsuclwggqkccutou awpkdfguotakclunfc
ykotakuprukrkc;ulskakunkakucswqru fliskcutqulskuygfivuiakkvmuLskupttq
sfhuc akfhutdkaukdkarlswqxufulswqugfrkautoucwgdka--tdkaulskuafqvuxafcc,
tdkaulskupeh,ue tqulskunfggutoupfllkhudkxklflwtquclfqhwqxuswxskaulsfq
lskunfggutoufulkp gk,utdkaulskuxakfluawdkauWuiteghuckkulsatexsufuctpyak
xf uxgwllkawqx,uxgwllkawqx,ufcuwluogtnkhuyatfhgruyrunwlstelufupeapeam
Fggulswcunfcuxakfl,ukb kilfql,upelk,unswgkulskupfqu.fyykakhufytel
swpckgomuWuntqhkakhunsklskaulskuclwggqkccutqulskuofikutoulskuwppkqcwlr
gttvwqxuflueculntunkakupkfqlufcufquf  kfgutaufcufupkqfikmuNsflunkakunk
nstusfhuclafrkhuwquskak?uIteghunkusfqhgkulsfluhepyulswqx,utaunteghuwl
sfqhgkuec?uWuokglustnuywx,ustnuitqoteqhkhgruywx,unfculsflulswqxulsfl
iteghq'lulfgv,ufqhu kasf cunfcuhkfoufcunkggmuNsflunfcuwqulskak?uWuitegh
ckkufugwllgkuwdtaruitpwqxuteluoatpulskak,ufqhuWusfhuskfahuPamuVealjunfc
wqulskakmuWusfhuskfahukqtexsufyteluwl,ultt--Xthuvqtnc!uRkluctpkstn
wluhwhq'luyawqxufqruwpfxkunwlsuwl--qtuptakulsfquwouWusfhuykkqultghufq
fqxkgutaufuowkqhunfcuwqulskakmuWuykgwkdkhuwluwqulskucfpkunfrutqkutourte
pwxsluykgwkdkulskakufakuwqsfywlfqlcuwqulsku gfqkluPfacmuWuvqknutqikuf
Citlisucfwgpfvkaunstunfcuikalfwq,uhkfhuceak,ulskakunkaku kt gkuwquPfacm
Wourteufcvkhuswpuotauctpkuwhkfustnulskrugttvkhufqhuyksfdkh,uskunteghuxkl
csrufqhupellkauctpklswqxufytelu'nfgvwqxutqufgg-oteacm'uWourteufcupeis
fcucpwgkh,uskuntegh--lstexsufupfqutoucwblr--tookaultuowxslurtemuWuntegh
qtlusfdkuxtqkuctuofaufcultuowxsluotauVealj,uyeluWunkqluotauswpuqkfa
kqtexsultufugwkmuRteuvqtnuWusflk,uhklkcl,ufqhuifq'luykfaufugwk,uqtl
ykifeckuWufpuclafwxslkaulsfqulskuakclutouec,uyelucwp gruykifeckuwl
f  fggcupkmuLskakuwcufulfwqlutouhkfls,ufuogfdteautouptalfgwlruwq
gwkc--nswisuwcukbfilgrunsfluWusflkufqhuhklkcluwqulskuntagh--nsfluWunfql
ltuotaxklmuWlupfvkcupkupwckafygkufqhucwiv,ugwvkuywlwqxuctpklswqxuatllkq
nteghuhtmuLkp kafpkql,uWuce  tckmuNkgg,uWunkqluqkfaukqtexsultuwluyr
gkllwqxulskurteqxuottgulskakuykgwkdkufqrlswqxuskugwvkhultuwpfxwqkufcult
pruwqogekqikuwquKeat kmuWuykifpkuwqufquwqclfqlufcupeisutoufu aklkqikufc
lskuakclutoulskuyknwliskhu wgxawpcmuLswcucwp gruykifeckuWusfhufuqtlwtq
wluctpkstnunteghuykutouskg ultulsfluVealjunstpuflulskulwpkuWuhwhuqtl
ckk--rteueqhkaclfqhmuSkunfcu.eclufuntahuotaupkmuWuhwhuqtluckkulskupfquwq
lskuqfpkufqruptakulsfqurteuhtmuHturteuckkuswp?uHturteuckkulskucltar?uHt
rteuckkufqrlswqx?uWluckkpcultupkuWufpularwqxultulkggurteuf
hakfp--pfvwqxufudfwqufllkp l,uykifeckuqtuakgflwtqutoufuhakfpuifquitqdkr
lskuhakfp-ckqcflwtq,ulsfluitppwqxgwqxutoufyceahwlr,ucea awck,ufqh
yknwghkapkqluwqufulakptautouclaexxgwqxuakdtgl,ulsfluqtlwtqutouykwqx
if leakhuyrulskuwqiakhwygkunswisuwcutoulskudkarukcckqikutouhakfpcmmmm”

Skunfcucwgkqluotaufunswgkm

“mmmuQt,uwluwcuwp tccwygk;uwluwcuwp tccwygkultuitqdkrulsk
gwok-ckqcflwtqutoufqruxwdkquk tisutoutqk'cukbwclkqik--lsflunswisupfvkc
wlculaels,uwlcupkfqwqx--wlcuceylgkufqhu kqklaflwqxukcckqikmuWluwc
wp tccwygkmuNkugwdk,ufcunkuhakfp--fgtqkmmmm”

Sku feckhufxfwqufcuwouakogkilwqx,ulskqufhhkh:

“TouiteackuwqulswcurteuokggtncuckkuptakulsfquWuiteghulskqmuRteuckkupk,
nstpurteuvqtnmmmm”

Wlusfhuykitpkuctu wlisuhfavulsflunkugwclkqkacuiteghusfahgruckkutqk
fqtlskamuOtaufugtqxulwpkufgakfhrusk,ucwllwqxuf fal,usfhuykkquqtuptak
ltueculsfqufudtwikmuLskakunfcuqtlufuntahuoatpufqrythrmuLskutlskacupwxsl
sfdkuykkqufcgkk ,uyeluWunfcufnfvkmuWugwclkqkh,uWugwclkqkhutqulskunflis
otaulskuckqlkqik,uotaulskuntah,ulsflunteghuxwdkupkulskuigekultulsk
ofwqlueqkfcwqkccuwqc wakhuyrulswcuqfaaflwdkulsfluckkpkhultucsf kuwlckgo
nwlstelusepfqugw cuwqulskuskfdruqwxsl-fwautoulskuawdkam

“mmmuRkc--Wugkluswpuaequtq,”uPfagtnuykxfqufxfwq,u“fqhulswqvunsfl
sku gkfckhufytelulsku tnkaculsflunkakuykswqhupkmuWuhwh!uFqhulskakunfc
qtlswqxuykswqhupk!uLskakunfcuqtlswqxuyelulsflunakliskh,utgh,upfqxgkh
clkfpytfluWunfcugkfqwqxufxfwqcl,unswgkuskulfgvkhuogekqlgrufytelu'lsk
qkikccwlruotaukdkarupfqultuxklutqm'u'Fqhunskqutqkuitpkcuteluskak,urte
itqikwdk,uwluwcuqtlultuxfjkuflulskupttqm'uPamuVealjunfcufu'eqwdkacfg
xkqwec,'uyelukdkqufuxkqwecunteghuowqhuwlukfcwkaultuntavunwlsu'fhkzeflk
lttgc--wqlkggwxkqlupkqm'uSkuhwhuqtlupfvkuyawivc--nsr,ulskakunfcuf
 srcwifguwp tccwywgwlruwqulskunfr--fcuWunfcunkggufnfak;ufqhuwousk
hwhuckiaklfawfguntavuotaulskupfqfxka,uwlunfcuykifecku'qtuckqcwygkupfq
ak.kilcunfqltqgrulskuitqowhkqikutouswcuce kawtacm'uHwhuWuckkuwl?uWucfn
wlmuNsfluptakuhwhuWunfql?uNsfluWuakfggrunfqlkhunfcuawdklc,uyruskfdkq!
AwdklcmuLtuxklutqunwlsulskuntav--ltuclt ulskustgkmuAwdklcuW
nfqlkhmuLskakunkakuifckcutoulskpuhtnquflulskuitfcl--ifckc-- wgkh
e --yeacl--c gwl!uRteuvwivkhufugttckuawdkluflukdkaruckitqhuclk uwqulsfl
clflwtq-rfahutqulskuswggcwhkmuAwdklcusfhuatggkhuwqltulskuxatdkutouhkflsm
Rteuiteghuowggurteau tivklcunwlsuawdklcuotaulskulateygkutoucltt wqx
htnq--fqhulskakunfcq'lutqkuawdklultuykuoteqhunskakuwlunfcunfqlkhmuNk
sfhu gflkculsflunteghuht,uyeluqtlswqxultuofclkqulskpunwlsmuFqhukdkar
nkkvulskupkcckqxka,ufugtqxuqkxat,ugkllka-yfxutqucsteghkaufqhuclfoouwq
sfqh,ugkoluteauclflwtquotaulskuitfclmuFqhuckdkafgulwpkcufunkkvufuitfcl
ifafdfquifpkuwqunwlsulafhkuxtthc--xsfclgruxgfjkhuifgwitulsflupfhkurte
csehhkautqgrultugttvufluwl,uxgfccuykfhcudfgekufytelufu kqqrufuzefal,
itqoteqhkhuc tllkhuitlltqusfqhvkaiswkocmuFqhuqtuawdklcmuLsakkuifaawkac
iteghusfdkuyatexslufggulsflunfcunfqlkhultucklulsfluclkfpytflufogtflm

“Skunfcuykitpwqxuitqowhkqlwfguqtn,uyeluWuofqiruprueqakc tqcwdkufllwlehk
peclusfdkukbfc kaflkhuswpuflugfcl,uotausku.ehxkhuwluqkikccfarultuwqotap
pkuskuokfakhuqkwlskauXthuqtauhkdwg,ugklufgtqkufqrupkakupfqmuWucfwhuW
iteghuckkulsfludkarunkgg,uyelunsfluWunfqlkhunfcufuikalfwquzefqlwlruto
awdklc--fqhuawdklcunkakunsfluakfggruPamuVealjunfqlkh,uwouskusfhutqgr
vqtnquwlmuQtnugkllkacunkqlultulskuitfclukdkarunkkvmmmmu'Pruhkfa
cwa,'uskuiawkh,u'Wunawlkuoatpuhwilflwtqm'uWuhkpfqhkhuawdklcmuLskakunfc
funfr--otaufquwqlkggwxkqlupfqmuSkuisfqxkhuswcupfqqka;uykifpkudkar
itgh,ufqhucehhkqgruykxfqultulfgvufytelufusw  t tlfpec;untqhkakhunsklska
cgkk wqxutquytfahulskuclkfpkau(Wucleivultuprucfgdfxkuqwxslufqhuhfr)
Wunfcq'luhwcleaykhmuLskakunfcufqutghusw  tulsflusfhulskuyfhusfywluto
xkllwqxutelutqulskuyfqvufqhuatfpwqxufluqwxslutdkaulskuclflwtquxateqhcm
Lsku wgxawpcueckhultuleaquteluwqufuythrufqhukp lrukdkaruawogkulskruitegh
gfrusfqhcutqufluswpmuCtpkukdkqusfhucflue ut'uqwxslcuotauswpmuFggulswc
kqkaxrunfcunfclkh,ulstexsmu'Lsflufqwpfgusfcufuisfapkhugwok,'uskucfwh;
'yelurteuifqucfrulswcutqgrutouyaelkcuwqulswcuiteqlarmuQtupfq--rte
f  akskqhupk?--qtupfquskakuykfacufuisfapkhugwokm'uSkucltthulskakuota
fuptpkqluwqulskupttqgwxslunwlsuswcuhkgwiflkusttvkhuqtckucklufugwllgk
fcvkn,ufqhuswcupwifukrkcuxgwllkawqxunwlstelufunwqv,ulskq,unwlsufuieal
Xtth-qwxsl,uskuclathkutoomuWuiteghuckkuskunfcuhwcleaykhufqhuitqcwhkafygr
 ejjgkh,unswisupfhkupkuokkguptakust koegulsfquWusfhuykkquotauhfrcmuWl
nfcufuxakfluitpotalultuleaquoatpulsfluisf ultupruwqogekqlwfguoawkqh,ulsk
yfllkakh,ulnwclkh,uaewqkh,ulwq- tluclkfpytflmuWuigfpykakhutquytfahmuCsk
afqxueqhkaupruokklugwvkufqukp lruSeqlgkru&u fgpkauywciewl-lwquvwivkh
fgtqxufuxellka;ucskunfcuqtlswqxuctuctgwhuwqupfvk,ufqhuaflskaugkccu akllr
wqucsf k,uyeluWusfhukb kqhkhukqtexsusfahuntavutquskaultupfvkupkugtdk
skamuQtuwqogekqlwfguoawkqhunteghusfdkuckadkhupkuykllkamuCskusfhuxwdkq
pkufuisfqikultuitpkutelufuywl--ltuowqhutelunsfluWuiteghuhtmuQt,uWuhtq'l
gwvkuntavmuWusfhuaflskaugfjkufytelufqhulswqvutoufggulskuowqkulswqxculsfl
ifquykuhtqkmuWuhtq'lugwvkuntav--qtupfquhtkc--yeluWugwvkunsfluwcuwqulsk
ntav--lskuisfqikultuowqhurteackgomuRteautnquakfgwlr--otaurteackgo,uqtl
otautlskac--nsfluqtutlskaupfquifqukdkauvqtnmuLskruifqutqgruckkulskupkak
cstn,ufqhuqkdkauifqulkggunsfluwluakfggrupkfqcm

“Wunfcuqtlucea awckhultuckkuctpkythrucwllwqxufol,utqulskuhkiv,unwls
swcugkxcuhfqxgwqxutdkaulskupehmuRteuckkuWuaflskauiseppkhunwlsulskuokn
pkisfqwiculskakunkakuwqulsfluclflwtq,unstpulskutlskau wgxawpcuqfleafggr
hkc wckh--tqufiiteqlutoulskwauwp kaokilupfqqkac,uWuce  tckmuLswcunfculsk
otakpfq--fuytwgka-pfvkauyrulafhk--fuxtthuntavkamuSkunfcufugfqv,uytqr,
rkggtn-ofikhupfq,unwlsuywxuwqlkqckukrkcmuSwcufc kilunfcuntaawkh,ufqhuswc
skfhunfcufcuyfghufculsku fgputouprusfqh;uyeluswcusfwauwquofggwqxuckkpkh
ltusfdkucleivultuswcuiswq,ufqhusfhu atc kakhuwqulskuqknugtifgwlr,
otauswcuykfahuseqxuhtnqultuswcunfwclmuSkunfcufunwhtnkaunwlsucwburteqx
iswghakqu(skusfhugkolulskpuwquisfaxkutoufucwclkautouswcultuitpkutel
lskak),ufqhulsku fccwtqutouswcugwokunfcu wxktq-ogrwqxmuSkunfcufq
kqlsecwfclufqhufuitqqtwcckeamuSkunteghuafdkufytelu wxktqcmuFolkauntav
steacuskueckhuctpklwpkcultuitpkutdkauoatpuswcuseluotaufulfgvufyteluswc
iswghakqufqhuswcu wxktqc;ufluntav,unskquskusfhultuiafnguwqulskupehueqhka
lskuytlltputoulskuclkfpytfl,uskunteghulwkue ulsfluykfahutouswcuwqufuvwqh
tounswlkuckadwkllkuskuyatexsluotaulsku ea tckmuWlusfhugtt cultuxtutdka
swcukfacmuWqulskukdkqwqxuskuiteghuykuckkquczefllkhutqulskuyfqvuawqcwqx
lsflunaf  kauwqulskuiakkvunwlsuxakfluifak,ulskquc akfhwqxuwluctgkpqgrutq
fuyecsultuharm

“Wucgf  khuswputqulskuyfivufqhucstelkh,u'Nkucsfggusfdkuawdklc!'uSk
ciafpygkhultuswcuokklukbigfwpwqx,u'Qt!uAwdklc!'ufculstexsuskuiteghq'l
ykgwkdkuswcukfacmuLskquwqufugtnudtwik,u'Rtemmmuks?'uWuhtq'luvqtnunsr
nkuyksfdkhugwvkugeqflwicmuWu elupruowqxkaultulskucwhkutoupruqtckufqh
qthhkhuprclkawtecgrmu'Xtthuotaurte!'uskuiawkh,ucqf  khuswcuowqxkacufytdk
swcuskfh,ugwolwqxutqkuottlmuWulawkhufu.wxmuNkuif kakhutqulskuwatquhkivm
Fuoawxsloeguigfllkauifpkutelutoulsflusegv,ufqhulskudwaxwquotakclutq
lskutlskauyfqvutoulskuiakkvuckqluwluyfivuwqufulseqhkawqxuatggue tqulsk
cgkk wqxuclflwtqmuWlupeclusfdkupfhkuctpkutoulsku wgxawpcucwlue uwqulskwa
stdkgcmuFuhfavuowxeakutycieakhulskugwxslkhuhttanfrutoulskupfqfxka'cusel,
dfqwcskh,ulskq,ufuckitqhutauctufolka,ulskuhttanfruwlckgoudfqwcskh,ulttm
Nkuclt  kh,ufqhulskucwgkqikuhawdkqufnfruyrulskuclfp wqxutouteauokkl
ogtnkhuyfivufxfwquoatpulskuakikcckcutoulskugfqhmuLskuxakflunfgguto
dkxklflwtq,ufqukbeykafqlufqhukqlfqxgkhupfccutoulaeqvc,uyafqiskc,ugkfdkc,
ytexsc,uokclttqc,uptlwtqgkccuwqulskupttqgwxsl,unfcugwvkufuawtlwqx
wqdfcwtqutoucteqhgkccugwok,ufuatggwqxunfdkutou gfqlc,u wgkhue ,uiakclkh,
akfhrultult  gkutdkaulskuiakkv,ultucnkk ukdkarugwllgkupfqutouecutel
touswcugwllgkukbwclkqikmuFqhuwluptdkhuqtlmuFuhkfhkqkhuyeaclutoupwxslr
c gfcskcufqhucqtalcuakfiskhuecuoatpufofa,ufculstexsufquwilsrtcfeaecusfh
ykkqulfvwqxufuyflsutouxgwllkauwqulskuxakfluawdkamu'Folkaufgg,'ucfwhulsk
ytwgka-pfvkauwqufuakfctqfygkultqk,u'nsrucsteghq'lunkuxklulskuawdklc?'
Nsruqtl,uwqhkkh!uWuhwhuqtluvqtnutoufqruakfctqunsrunkucsteghq'lmu'Lskr'gg
itpkuwqulsakkunkkvc,'uWucfwhuitqowhkqlgrm

“Yelulskruhwhq'lmuWqclkfhutouawdklculskakuifpkufquwqdfcwtq,ufq
wqogwilwtq,ufudwcwlflwtqmuWluifpkuwquckilwtqcuheawqxulskuqkblulsakk
nkkvc,ukfisuckilwtquskfhkhuyrufuhtqvkruifaarwqxufunswlkupfquwquqkn
igtlskcufqhulfqucstkc,uytnwqxuoatpulsflukgkdflwtquawxslufqhugkolultulsk
wp akcckhu wgxawpcmuFuzefaakgctpkuyfqhutouottlctakucegvruqwxxkaculathutq
lskuskkgcutoulskuhtqvkr;ufugtlutoulkqlc,uifp -clttgc,ulwquytbkc,unswlk
ifckc,uyatnquyfgkcunteghuykucstluhtnquwqulskuitealrfah,ufqhulskufwauto
prclkarunteghuhkk kqufugwllgkutdkaulskupehhgkutoulskuclflwtqmuOwdkuceis
wqclfgpkqlcuifpk,unwlsulskwaufyceahufwautouhwctahkagruogwxslunwlsulsk
gttlutouwqqepkafygkutelowlucst cufqhu atdwcwtqucltakc,ulsfl,utqk
nteghulswqv,ulskrunkakugexxwqx,ufolkaufuafwh,uwqltulskunwghkaqkccuota
kzewlfygkuhwdwcwtqmuWlunfcufquwqkblawifygkupkccutoulswqxcuhkikqluwq
lskpckgdkcuyelulsflusepfquotggrupfhkugttvugwvkulskuc twgcutoulswkdwqxm

“LswcuhkdtlkhuyfqhuifggkhuwlckgoulskuKghtafhtuKb gtawqxuKb khwlwtq,ufqh
WuykgwkdkulskrunkakucntaqultuckiakirmuLskwaulfgv,ustnkdka,unfculskulfgv
touctahwhuyeiifqkkac:uwlunfcuakivgkccunwlstelusfahwstth,uxakkhrunwlstel
fehfiwlr,ufqhuiaekgunwlsteluiteafxk;ulskakunfcuqtlufqufltputouotakcwxsl
tautouckawtecuwqlkqlwtquwqulskunstgkuyflisutoulskp,ufqhulskruhwhuqtl
ckkpufnfakulskckulswqxcufakunfqlkhuotaulskuntavutoulskuntaghmuLtulkfa
lakfceakutelutoulskuytnkgcutoulskugfqhunfculskwauhkcwak,unwlsuqtuptak
ptafgu ea tckuflulskuyfivutouwlulsfqulskakuwcuwquyeaxgfacuyakfvwqxuwqlt
fucfokmuNstu fwhulskukb kqckcutoulskuqtygkukqlka awckuWuhtq'luvqtn;uyel
lskueqigkutouteaupfqfxkaunfcugkfhkautoulsflugtlm

“Wqukblkawtauskuakckpygkhufuyeliskauwqufu ttauqkwxsyteastth,ufqhuswc
krkcusfhufugttvutoucgkk ruieqqwqxmuSkuifaawkhuswcuoflu feqisunwls
tclkqlflwtqutquswcucstalugkxc,ufqhuheawqxulskulwpkuswcuxfqxuwqokclkhulsk
clflwtquc tvkultuqtutqkuyeluswcuqk sknmuRteuiteghuckkulskckulntuatfpwqx
fytelufgguhfrugtqxunwlsulskwauskfhcuigtckultxklskauwqufqukdkagfclwqx
itqofym

“Wusfhuxwdkque untaarwqxuprckgoufytelulskuawdklcmuTqk'cuif fiwlruota
lsfluvwqhutouotggruwcuptakugwpwlkhulsfqurteunteghuce  tckmuWucfwh
Sfqx!--fqhugklulswqxcucgwhkmuWusfhu gkqlrutoulwpkuotaupkhwlflwtq,
fqhuqtnufqhulskquWunteghuxwdkuctpkulstexslultuVealjmuWunfcq'ludkar
wqlkakclkhuwquswpmuQtmuClwgg,uWunfcuieawtecultuckkunsklskaulswcupfq,unst
sfhuitpkutelukzew  khunwlsuptafguwhkfcutouctpkuctal,unteghuigwpyultulsk
lt ufolkaufggufqhustnuskunteghucklufyteluswcuntavunskqulskakm”




WW



“TqkukdkqwqxufcuWunfcugrwqxuogflutqulskuhkivutoupruclkfpytfl,uWuskfah
dtwikcuf  atfiswqx--fqhulskakunkakulskuqk sknufqhulskueqigkuclatggwqx
fgtqxulskuyfqvmuWugfwhupruskfhutquprufapufxfwq,ufqhusfhuqkfagrugtcl
prckgouwqufuhtjk,unskquctpkythrucfwhuwquprukfa,ufcuwlunkak:u'Wufpufc
sfapgkccufcufugwllgkuiswgh,uyeluWuhtq'lugwvkultuykuhwilflkhultmuFpuWulsk
pfqfxka--taufpuWuqtl?uWunfcutahkakhultuckqhuswpulskakmuWl'cuwqiakhwygkm'
mmmuWuykifpkufnfakulsflulskulntunkakuclfqhwqxutqulskucstakufgtqxcwhk
lskuotak falutoulskuclkfpytfl,u.ecluykgtnupruskfhmuWuhwhuqtluptdk;uwl
hwhuqtlutiieaultupkultuptdk:uWunfcucgkk rmu'Wlu_wc_ueq gkfcfql,'uxaeqlkh
lskueqigkmu'SkusfcufcvkhulskuFhpwqwclaflwtqultuykuckqlulskak,'ucfwhulsk
tlska,u'nwlsulskuwhkfutoucstnwqxunsfluskuiteghuht;ufqhuWunfcuwqclaeilkh
fiitahwqxgrmuGttvuflulskuwqogekqikulsflupfqupeclusfdkmuWcuwluqtl
oawxsloeg?'uLskruytlsufxakkhuwlunfcuoawxsloeg,ulskqupfhkuckdkafguywjfaak
akpfavc:u'Pfvkuafwqufqhuowqkunkflska--tqkupfq--lskuIteqiwg--yrulsk
qtck'--ywlcutoufyceahuckqlkqikculsfluxtlulskuykllkautoupruhatncwqkcc,
ctulsfluWusfhu akllruqkfaulskunstgkutouprunwlcufytelupkunskqulskueqigk
cfwh,u'LskuigwpflkupfruhtufnfrunwlsulswcuhwoowieglruotaurtemuWcuskufgtqk
lskak?'u'Rkc,'ufqcnkakhulskupfqfxka;u'skuckqluswcufccwclfqluhtnqulsk
awdkaunwlsufuqtlkultupkuwqulskckulkapc:u“Igkfaulswcu ttauhkdwguteluto
lskuiteqlar,ufqhuhtq'luytlskauckqhwqxuptakutoulsfluctalmuWusfhuaflskauyk
fgtqkulsfqusfdkulskuvwqhutoupkqurteuifquhwc tckutounwlsupkm”uWlunfcuptak
lsfqufurkfaufxtmuIfqurteuwpfxwqkuceisuwp ehkqik!'u'Fqrlswqxucwqikulskq?'
fcvkhulskutlskaustfackgrmu'Wdtar,'u.kavkhulskuqk skn;u'gtlcutouwl-- awpk
ctal--gtlc--ptclufqqtrwqx,uoatpuswpm'u'Fqhunwlsulsfl?'uzekclwtqkhulsk
skfdruaepygkmu'Wqdtwik,'unfculskuak gruowakhutel,uctultuc kfvmuLskq
cwgkqikmuLskrusfhuykkqulfgvwqxufyteluVealjm

“Wunfcuyatfhufnfvkuyrulswculwpk,uyel,ugrwqxu kaokilgruflukfck,uakpfwqkh
clwgg,usfdwqxuqtuwqheikpkqlultuisfqxkupru tcwlwtqmu'Stnuhwhulsfluwdtar
itpkufggulswcunfr?'uxatngkhulskukghkaupfq,unstuckkpkhudkarudkbkhmuLsk
tlskaukb gfwqkhulsfluwlusfhuitpkunwlsufuogkklutouifqtkcuwquisfaxkutoufq
Kqxgwcsusfgo-ifclkuigkavuVealjusfhunwlsuswp;ulsfluVealjusfhuf  fakqlgr
wqlkqhkhultuakleaquswpckgo,ulskuclflwtquykwqxuyrulsflulwpkuyfakutouxtthc
fqhucltakc,uyelufolkauitpwqxulsakkuseqhakhupwgkc,usfhucehhkqgruhkiwhkh
ltuxtuyfiv,unswisuskuclfalkhultuhtufgtqkuwqufucpfgguhextelunwlsuotea
 fhhgkac,ugkfdwqxulskusfgo-ifclkultuitqlwqekuhtnqulskuawdkaunwlsulsk
wdtarmuLskulntuokggtnculskakuckkpkhufclteqhkhuflufqrythrufllkp lwqxuceis
fulswqxmuLskrunkakuflufugtccuotaufqufhkzeflkuptlwdkmuFcultupk,uWuckkpkh
ltuckkuVealjuotaulskuowaclulwpkmuWlunfcufuhwclwqiluxgwp ck:ulskuhextel,
oteau fhhgwqxucfdfxkc,ufqhulskugtqkunswlkupfquleaqwqxuswcuyfivucehhkqgr
tqulskuskfhzefalkac,utquakgwko,utqulstexslcutoustpk-- kasf c;uckllwqx
swcuofikultnfahculskuhk lscutoulskunwghkaqkcc,ultnfahcuswcukp lrufqh
hkctgflkuclflwtqmuWuhwhuqtluvqtnulskuptlwdkmu kasf cuskunfcu.eclucwp gr
fuowqkuokggtnunstucleivultuswcuntavuotauwlcutnqucfvkmuSwcuqfpk,urte
eqhkaclfqh,usfhuqtluykkqu atqteqikhutqikmuSkunfcu'lsflupfqm'uLsk
sfgo-ifclk,unst,ufcuofaufcuWuiteghuckk,usfhuitqheilkhufuhwoowiegl
law unwlsuxakflu aehkqikufqhu geiv,unfcuwqdfawfygrufggehkhultufcu'lsfl
citeqhakgm'uLsku'citeqhakg'usfhuak talkhulsflulsku'pfq'usfhuykkqudkar
wgg--sfhuakitdkakhuwp kaokilgrmmmmuLskulntuykgtnupkuptdkhufnfrulskquf
oknu fikc,ufqhuclatggkhuyfivufqhuotalsufluctpkugwllgkuhwclfqikmuWuskfah:
'Pwgwlfaru tcl--htilta--lntuseqhakhupwgkc--zewlkufgtqkuqtn--eqfdtwhfygk
hkgfrc--qwqkuptqlsc--qtuqknc--clafqxkuaepteacm'uLskruf  atfiskhufxfwq,
.eclufculskupfqfxkaunfcucfrwqx,u'Qtutqk,ufcuofaufcuWuvqtn,ueqgkccuf
c kiwkcutounfqhkawqxulafhka--fu kclwgkqlwfguokggtn,ucqf  wqxuwdtar
oatpulskuqflwdkcm'uNstunfcuwlulskrunkakulfgvwqxufyteluqtn?uWuxflskakhuwq
cqfliskculsflulswcunfcuctpkupfquce  tckhultuykuwquVealj'cuhwclawil,ufqh
tounstpulskupfqfxkauhwhuqtluf  atdkmu'Nkunwgguqtluykuoakkuoatpueqofwa
itp klwlwtqulwggutqkutoulskckuokggtncuwcusfqxkhuotaufqukbfp gk,'
skucfwhmu'Ikalfwqgr,'uxaeqlkhulskutlska;u'xkluswpusfqxkh!uNsruqtl?
Fqrlswqx--fqrlswqxuifquykuhtqkuwqulswcuiteqlarmuLsfl'cunsfluWucfr;
qtythruskak,urteueqhkaclfqh,u_skak_,uifqukqhfqxkaurteau tcwlwtqmuFqhunsr?
Rteuclfqhulskuigwpflk--rteutelgfclulskpufggmuLskuhfqxkauwcuwquKeat k;
yelulskakuykotakuWugkoluWulttvuifakult--'uLskruptdkhutooufqhunswc kakh,
lskqulskwaudtwikcuatckufxfwqmu'Lskukblaftahwqfaruckawkcutouhkgfrcuwc
qtlupruofeglmuWuhwhupruykclm'uLskuoflupfqucwxskhmu'Dkarucfhm'u'Fqhulsk
 kclwokatecufyceahwlrutouswculfgv,'uitqlwqekhulskutlska;u'skuytlskakh
pkukqtexsunskquskunfcuskakmu“Kfisuclflwtqucsteghuykugwvkufuykfitqutqulsk
atfhultnfahcuykllkaulswqxc,ufuikqlakuotaulafhkutouiteack,uyelufgctuota
sepfqwjwqx,uwp atdwqx,uwqclaeilwqxm”uItqikwdkurte--lsflufcc!uFqh
skunfqlcultuykupfqfxka!uQt,uwl'c--'uSkakuskuxtluistvkhuyrukbikccwdk
wqhwxqflwtq,ufqhuWugwolkhupruskfhulskugkfcluywlmuWunfcucea awckhultuckk
stnuqkfaulskrunkak--awxslueqhkaupkmuWuiteghusfdkuc flue tqulskwausflcm
Lskrunkakugttvwqxutqulskuxateqh,ufyctaykhuwqulstexslmuLskupfqfxkaunfc
cnwliswqxuswcugkxunwlsufucgkqhkaulnwx:uswcucfxfiwtecuakgflwdkugwolkhuswc
skfhmu'Rteusfdkuykkqunkggucwqikurteuifpkutelulswculwpk?'uskufcvkhmuLsk
tlskauxfdkufuclfalmu'Nst?uW?uTs!uGwvkufuisfap--gwvkufuisfapmuYelulsk
akcl--ts,upruxtthqkcc!uFggucwivmuLskruhwkuctuzewiv,ultt,ulsfluWusfdkq'l
lskulwpkultuckqhulskputelutoulskuiteqlar--wl'cuwqiakhwygk!'u'Sp'pm
.ecluct,'uxaeqlkhulskueqigkmu'Fs!upruytr,ulaeclultulswc--Wucfr,ulaeclult
lswcm'uWucfnuswpukblkqhuswcucstaluogw  kautoufqufapuotaufuxkcleakulsfl
lttvuwqulskuotakcl,ulskuiakkv,ulskupeh,ulskuawdka--ckkpkhultuykivtq
nwlsufuhwcstqteawqxuogteawcsuykotakulskuceqgwluofikutoulskugfqhuf
lakfiskatecuf  kfgultulskugeavwqxuhkfls,ultulskuswhhkqukdwg,ultulsk
 atoteqhuhfavqkccutouwlcuskfalmuWlunfcuctuclfalgwqxulsfluWugkf khultupr
okklufqhugttvkhuyfivuflulskukhxkutoulskuotakcl,ufculstexsuWusfhukb kilkh
fqufqcnkautouctpkuctalultulsfluygfivuhwc gfrutouitqowhkqikmuRteuvqtn
lskuottgwcsuqtlwtqculsfluitpkultutqkuctpklwpkcmuLskuswxsuclwggqkcc
itqoatqlkhulskckulntuowxeakcunwlsuwlcutpwqtecu flwkqik,unfwlwqxuotaulsk
 fccwqxufnfrutoufuofqlfclwiuwqdfcwtqm

“Lskrucntakufgtehultxklska--telutoucskkauoawxsl,uWuykgwkdk--lskq
 aklkqhwqxuqtlultuvqtnufqrlswqxutouprukbwclkqik,uleaqkhuyfivultulsk
clflwtqmuLskucequnfcugtn;ufqhugkfqwqxuotanfahucwhkuyrucwhk,ulskruckkpkh
ltuykulexxwqxu fwqoeggrue swggulskwaulntuawhwiegtecucsfhtncutoueqkzefg
gkqxls,ulsflulafwgkhuykswqhulskpucgtngrutdkaulskulfgguxafccunwlstel
ykqhwqxufucwqxgkuygfhkm

“WqufuoknuhfrculskuKghtafhtuKb khwlwtqunkqluwqltulsku flwkqlunwghkaqkcc,
lsfluigtckhue tquwlufculskuckfuigtckcutdkaufuhwdkamuGtqxufolkanfahculsk
qkncuifpkulsflufggulskuhtqvkrcunkakuhkfhmuWuvqtnuqtlswqxufcultulskuoflk
toulskugkccudfgefygkufqwpfgcmuLskr,uqtuhteyl,ugwvkulskuakclutouec,uoteqh
nsflulskruhkckadkhmuWuhwhuqtluwqzewakmuWunfculskquaflskaukbiwlkhufl
lsku atc kilutoupkklwqxuVealjudkaructtqmuNskquWucfrudkaructtquWupkfq
wluitp faflwdkgrmuWlunfcu.eclulntuptqlscuoatpulskuhfrunkugkolulskuiakkv
nskqunkuifpkultulskuyfqvuykgtnuVealj'cuclflwtqm

“Xtwqxue ulsfluawdkaunfcugwvkulafdkgwqxuyfivultulskukfagwkcluykxwqqwqxc
toulskuntagh,unskqudkxklflwtquawtlkhutqulskukfalsufqhulskuywxulakkcunkak
vwqxcmuFqukp lruclakfp,ufuxakflucwgkqik,ufquwp kqklafygkuotakclmuLskufwa
nfcunfap,ulswiv,uskfdr,ucgexxwcsmuLskakunfcuqtu.truwqulskuyawggwfqikuto
ceqcswqkmuLskugtqxuclakliskcutoulskunflkanfruafqutq,uhkckalkh,uwqlt
lskuxgttputoutdkacsfhtnkhuhwclfqikcmuTqucwgdkarucfqh-yfqvcusw  tcufqh
fggwxfltacuceqqkhulskpckgdkcucwhkuyrucwhkmuLskuyatfhkqwqxunflkacuogtnkh
lsatexsufuptyutountthkhuwcgfqhc;urteugtclurteaunfrutqulsfluawdkaufcurte
nteghuwqufuhkckal,ufqhuyellkhufgguhfrugtqxufxfwqclucstfgc,ularwqxult
owqhulskuisfqqkg,ulwggurteulstexslurteackgouyknwliskhufqhuielutoouota
kdkauoatpukdkarlswqxurteusfhuvqtnqutqik--ctpknskak--ofaufnfr--wqufqtlska
kbwclkqiku kasf cmuLskakunkakuptpkqlcunskqutqk'cu fcluifpkuyfivultutqk,
fcuwlunwgguctpklwpkcunskqurteusfdkuqtlufuptpkqlultuc fakuotaurteackgo;
yeluwluifpkuwqulskucsf kutoufqueqakcloegufqhuqtwcruhakfp,uakpkpykakh
nwlsuntqhkaufptqxclulskutdkanskgpwqxuakfgwlwkcutoulswcuclafqxkuntaghuto
 gfqlc,ufqhunflka,ufqhucwgkqikmuFqhulswcuclwggqkccutougwokuhwhuqtluwq
lskugkfcluakckpygkufu kfikmuWlunfculskuclwggqkccutoufquwp gfifygkuotaik
yatthwqxutdkaufquwqciaelfygkuwqlkqlwtqmuWlugttvkhuflurteunwlsufudkqxkoeg
fc kilmuWuxtlueckhultuwlufolkanfahc;uWuhwhuqtluckkuwlufqruptak;uWusfhuqt
lwpkmuWusfhultuvkk uxekccwqxuflulskuisfqqkg;uWusfhultuhwcikaq,uptclgruyr
wqc waflwtq,ulskucwxqcutouswhhkquyfqvc;uWunfliskhuotauceqvkqucltqkc;uW
nfcugkfaqwqxultuigf uprulkklsucpfalgruykotakupruskfaluogknutel,unskquW
csfdkhuyrufuogevkuctpkuwqokaqfgucgrutghucqfxulsflunteghusfdkuaw  khulsk
gwokutelutoulskulwq- tluclkfpytflufqhuhatnqkhufggulsku wgxawpc;uWusfhult
vkk ufugttvteluotaulskucwxqcutouhkfhuntthunkuiteghuielue uwqulskuqwxsl
otauqkbluhfr'cuclkfpwqxmuNskqurteusfdkultufllkqhultulswqxcutoulsfluctal,
ltulskupkakuwqiwhkqlcutoulskuceaofik,ulskuakfgwlr--lskuakfgwlr,uWulkgg
rte--ofhkcmuLskuwqqkaulaelsuwcuswhhkq--geivwgr,ugeivwgrmuYeluWuokgluwl
fggulskucfpk;uWuokglutolkquwlcuprclkawtecuclwggqkccunfliswqxupkufl
pruptqvkrulawivc,u.eclufcuwlunfliskcurteuokggtncu kaotapwqxutqurtea
akc kilwdkulwxsl-at kcuota--nsfluwcuwl?usfgo-f-iatnqufulepygk--”

“Larultuykuiwdwg,uPfagtn,”uxatngkhufudtwik,ufqhuWuvqknulskakunfcufl
gkfclutqkugwclkqkaufnfvkuykcwhkcuprckgom

“Wuykxurteau fahtqmuWuotaxtlulskuskfalfiskunswisupfvkcue ulskuakcluto
lsku awikmuFqhuwqhkkhunsfluhtkculsku awikupfllka,uwoulskulawivuykunkgg
htqk?uRteuhturteaulawivcudkarunkggmuFqhuWuhwhq'luhtuyfhgrukwlska,ucwqik
Wupfqfxkhuqtlultucwqvulsfluclkfpytflutqupruowaclulaw muWl'cufuntqhkault
pkurklmuWpfxwqkufuygwqhotghkhupfqucklultuhawdkufudfqutdkaufuyfhuatfhm
Wucnkflkhufqhucswdkakhutdkaulsfluyecwqkccuitqcwhkafygr,uWuifqulkgg
rtemuFolkaufgg,uotaufuckfpfq,ultuciaf kulskuytlltputoulskulswqxulsfl'c
ce  tckhultuogtflufggulskulwpkueqhkauswcuifakuwculskueq fahtqfygkucwqm
Qtutqkupfruvqtnutouwl,uyelurteuqkdkauotaxklulskulsep --ks?uFuygtnutqulsk
dkaruskfalmuRteuakpkpykauwl,urteuhakfputouwl,urteunfvkue ufluqwxslufqh
lswqvutouwl--rkfacufolka--fqhuxtustlufqhuitghufggutdkamuWuhtq'lu aklkqh
ltucfrulsfluclkfpytfluogtflkhufggulskulwpkmuPtakulsfqutqikucskusfhult
nfhkuotaufuywl,unwlsulnkqlruifqqwyfgcuc gfcswqxufateqhufqhu ecswqxm
Nkusfhukqgwclkhuctpkutoulskckuisf cutqulskunfruotaufuiaknmuOwqk
okggtnc--ifqqwyfgc--wqulskwau gfikmuLskrunkakupkqutqkuiteghuntavunwls,
fqhuWufpuxaflkoegultulskpmuFqh,ufolkaufgg,ulskruhwhuqtlukflukfisutlska
ykotakupruofik:ulskrusfhuyatexslufgtqxufu atdwcwtqutousw  t-pkfl
nswisunkqluatllkq,ufqhupfhkulskuprclkarutoulskunwghkaqkccuclwqvuwqupr
qtclawgcmu stt!uWuifqucqwoouwluqtnmuWusfhulskupfqfxkautquytfahufqhulsakk
tauoteau wgxawpcunwlsulskwauclfdkc--fgguitp gklkmuCtpklwpkcunkuifpk
e tqufuclflwtquigtckuyrulskuyfqv,uigwqxwqxultulskucvwalcutoulskueqvqtnq,
fqhulskunswlkupkquaecswqxutelutoufulepygk-htnqustdkg,unwlsuxakfl
xkcleakcutou.trufqhucea awckufqhunkgitpk,uckkpkhudkaruclafqxk--sfhulsk
f  kfafqikutouykwqxuskghulskakuif lwdkuyrufuc kggmuLskuntahuwdtaruntegh
awqxuwqulskufwauotaufunswgk--fqhutqunkunkqlufxfwquwqltulskucwgkqik,
fgtqxukp lruakfiskc,uateqhulskuclwgguykqhc,uyklnkkqulskuswxsunfggcuto
teaunwqhwqxunfr,uakdkaykaflwqxuwqustggtnuigf culsku tqhkatecuykflutoulsk
clkaq-nskkgmuLakkc,ulakkc,upwggwtqcutoulakkc,upfccwdk,uwppkqck,uaeqqwqx
e uswxs;ufqhuflulskwauottl,usexxwqxulskuyfqvufxfwqclulskuclakfp,uiak l
lskugwllgkuykxawpkhuclkfpytfl,ugwvkufucgexxwcsuykklgkuiafngwqxutqulsk
ogttautoufugtolru talwitmuWlupfhkurteuokkgudkarucpfgg,udkarugtcl,ufqh
rkluwlunfcuqtlufgltxklskauhk akccwqx,ulsfluokkgwqxmuFolkaufgg,uwourte
nkakucpfgg,ulskuxawpruykklgkuiafngkhutq--nswisunfcu.eclunsflurteunfqlkh
wlultuhtmuNskakulsku wgxawpcuwpfxwqkhuwluiafngkhultuWuhtq'luvqtnm
Ltuctpku gfikunskakulskrukb kilkhultuxkluctpklswqxmuWuykl!uOtaupkuwl
iafngkhultnfahcuVealj--kbigecwdkgr;uyelunskqulskuclkfp- w kcuclfalkh
gkfvwqxunkuiafngkhudkarucgtnmuLskuakfiskcut kqkhuykotakuecufqhuigtckh
ykswqh,ufcuwoulskuotakclusfhuclk  khugkwceakgrufiatcculskunflkaultuyfa
lskunfruotauteauakleaqmuNku kqklaflkhuhkk kaufqhuhkk kauwqltulskuskfal
touhfavqkccmuWlunfcudkaruzewklulskakmuFluqwxsluctpklwpkculskuatgguto
haepcuykswqhulskuiealfwqutoulakkcunteghuaeque ulskuawdkaufqhuakpfwq
ceclfwqkhuofwqlgr,ufcuwoustdkawqxuwqulskufwauswxsutdkauteauskfhc,ulwgg
lskuowacluyakfvutouhfrmuNsklskauwlupkfqlunfa,u kfik,utau afrkaunkuitegh
qtlulkggmuLskuhfnqcunkakuskafghkhuyrulskuhkcikqlutoufuiswgguclwggqkcc;
lskuntth-iellkacucgk l,ulskwauowakcuyeaqkhugtn;ulskucqf  wqxutoufulnwx
nteghupfvkurteuclfalmuNkunkakunfqhkakacutqufu akswcltawiukfals,utqufq
kfalsulsfluntakulskufc kilutoufqueqvqtnqu gfqklmuNkuiteghusfdkuofqiwkh
teackgdkculskuowaclutoupkqulfvwqxu tcckccwtqutoufqufiieackhuwqskawlfqik,
ltuykuceyhekhuflulskuitclutou atoteqhufqxewcsufqhutoukbikccwdkultwgmuYel
cehhkqgr,ufcunkuclaexxgkhuateqhufuykqh,ulskakunteghuykufuxgwp ckutouaecs
nfggc,utou kfvkhuxafcc-attoc,ufuyeaclutourkggc,ufunswagutouygfivugwpyc,
fupfccutousfqhcuigf  wqxutouokkluclfp wqx,utouythwkcucnfrwqx,utoukrkc
atggwqx,ueqhkaulskuhatt utouskfdrufqhuptlwtqgkccuotgwfxkmuLskuclkfpka
ltwgkhufgtqxucgtngrutqulskukhxkutoufuygfivufqhuwqitp akskqcwygkuoakqjrm
Lsku akswcltawiupfqunfcuieacwqxuec,u afrwqxultuec,unkgitpwqxuec--nst
iteghulkgg?uNkunkakuielutoouoatpulskuitp akskqcwtqutouteauceaateqhwqxc;
nkuxgwhkhu fclugwvku sfqltpc,untqhkawqxufqhuckiaklgruf  fggkh,ufcucfqk
pkqunteghuykuykotakufqukqlsecwfclwiutelyakfvuwqufupfhsteckmuNkuitegh
qtlueqhkaclfqhuykifeckunkunkakulttuofaufqhuiteghuqtluakpkpykauykifeckunk
nkakulafdkggwqxuwqulskuqwxslutouowaclufxkc,utoulstckufxkculsflufakuxtqk,
gkfdwqxusfahgrufucwxq--fqhuqtupkptawkcm

“LskukfalsuckkpkhueqkfalsgrmuNkufakufiiecltpkhultugttvue tqulskucsfivgkh
otaputoufuitqzekakhuptqclka,uyelulskak--lskakurteuiteghugttvuflufulswqx
ptqclatecufqhuoakkmuWlunfcueqkfalsgr,ufqhulskupkqunkak--Qt,ulskrunkak
qtluwqsepfqmuNkgg,urteuvqtn,ulsflunfculskuntaclutouwl--lswcucec wiwtq
toulskwauqtluykwqxuwqsepfqmuWlunteghuitpkucgtngrultutqkmuLskrustngkhufqh
gkf kh,ufqhuc eq,ufqhupfhkustaawhuofikc;uyelunsflulsawggkhurteunfcu.ecl
lskulstexslutoulskwausepfqwlr--gwvkurteac--lskulstexslutourteauakptlk
vwqcsw unwlsulswcunwghufqhu fccwtqflkue atfamuExgrmuRkc,uwlunfcuexgr
kqtexs;uyeluwourteunkakupfqukqtexsurteunteghufhpwlulturteackgoulsfl
lskakunfcuwqurteu.eclulskuofwqlkclulafikutoufuakc tqckultulskulkaawygk
oafqvqkccutoulsfluqtwck,ufuhwpucec wiwtqutoulskakuykwqxufupkfqwqxuwquwl
nswisurte--rteuctuakptlkuoatpulskuqwxslutouowaclufxkc--iteghuitp akskqhm
Fqhunsruqtl?uLskupwqhutoupfquwcuif fygkutoufqrlswqx--ykifeckukdkarlswqx
wcuwquwl,ufggulsku fclufcunkggufcufggulskuoeleakmuNsflunfculskakufolka
fgg?u.tr,uokfa,uctaatn,uhkdtlwtq,udfgtea,uafxk--nstuifqulkgg?--yel
laels--laelsuclaw  khutouwlcuigtfvutoulwpkmuGklulskuottguxf kufqh
csehhka--lskupfquvqtnc,ufqhuifqugttvutqunwlstelufunwqvmuYeluskupeclufl
gkfcluykufcupeisutoufupfqufculskckutqulskucstakmuSkupeclupkklulsflulaels
nwlsuswcutnqulaekucleoo--nwlsuswcutnquwqytaquclakqxlsmu awqiw gkcuntq'l
htmuFizewcwlwtqc,uigtlskc,u akllruafxc--afxculsflunteghuogrutoouflulsk
owacluxtthucsfvkmuQt;urteunfqlufuhkgwykaflkuykgwkomuFquf  kfgultupkuwq
lswcuowkqhwcsuatn--wculskak?uDkarunkgg;uWuskfa;uWufhpwl,uyeluWusfdk
fudtwik,ultt,ufqhuotauxtthutaukdwgupwqkuwculskuc kkisulsfluifqqtluyk
cwgkqikhmuTouiteack,ufuottg,unsflunwlsucskkauoawxslufqhuowqkuckqlwpkqlc,
wcufgnfrcucfokmuNst'culsfluxaeqlwqx?uRteuntqhkauWuhwhq'luxtufcstakuota
fustngufqhufuhfqik?uNkgg,uqt--Wuhwhq'lmuOwqkuckqlwpkqlc,urteucfr?
Owqkuckqlwpkqlc,uykusfqxkh!uWusfhuqtulwpkmuWusfhultupkccufytelunwls
nswlk-gkfhufqhuclaw cutounttgkquygfqvkluskg wqxultu eluyfqhfxkcutq
lstckugkfvruclkfp- w kc--WulkggurtemuWusfhultunflisulskuclkkawqx,ufqh
iwaiepdkqlulstckucqfxc,ufqhuxklulskulwq- tlufgtqxuyrusttvutauyruiattvm
Lskakunfcuceaofik-laelsukqtexsuwqulskckulswqxcultucfdkufunwckaupfqmuFqh
yklnkkqunswgkcuWusfhultugttvufolkaulskucfdfxkunstunfcuowakpfqmuSkunfc
fquwp atdkhuc kiwpkq;uskuiteghuowakue ufudkalwifguytwgkamuSkunfculskak
ykgtnupk,ufqh,ue tqupruntah,ultugttvufluswpunfcufcukhworwqxufcuckkwqxuf
htxuwqufu fathrutouyakkiskcufqhufuokflskausfl,unfgvwqxutquswcuswqh-gkxcm
Fuoknuptqlscutoulafwqwqxusfhuhtqkuotaulsfluakfggruowqkuisf muSkuczewqlkh
flulskuclkfp-xfexkufqhuflulskunflka-xfexkunwlsufqukdwhkqlukootaluto
wqlak whwlr--fqhuskusfhuowgkhulkkls,ultt,ulsku ttauhkdwg,ufqhulskunttg
touswcu flkucsfdkhuwqltuzekkau fllkaqc,ufqhulsakkutaqfpkqlfgucifac
tqukfisutouswcuiskkvcmuSkutexslultusfdkuykkquigf  wqxuswcusfqhcufqh
clfp wqxuswcuokklutqulskuyfqv,uwqclkfhutounswisuskunfcusfahufluntav,uf
lsafggultuclafqxkunwlisiafol,uoeggutouwp atdwqxuvqtngkhxkmuSkunfcueckoeg
ykifeckuskusfhuykkquwqclaeilkh;ufqhunsfluskuvqknunfculswc--lsflucstegh
lskunflkauwqulsflulafqc fakqlulswqxuhwcf  kfa,ulskukdwguc wawluwqcwhk
lskuytwgkaunteghuxklufqxarulsatexsulskuxakflqkccutouswculswacl,ufqhulfvk
fulkaawygkudkqxkfqikmuCtuskucnkflkhufqhuowakhue ufqhunfliskhulskuxgfcc
okfaoeggru(nwlsufquwp atp leuisfap,upfhkutouafxc,ulwkhultuswcufap,ufqh
fu wkikutou tgwcskhuytqk,ufcuywxufcufunflis,ucleivuogflnfrculsatexsuswc
gtnkaugw ),unswgkulskuntthkhuyfqvcucgw  khu fcluecucgtngr,ulskucstal
qtwckunfcugkoluykswqh,ulskuwqlkapwqfygkupwgkcutoucwgkqik--fqhunkuiak l
tq,ultnfahcuVealjmuYelulskucqfxcunkakulswiv,ulskunflkaunfculakfiskatec
fqhucsfggtn,ulskuytwgkauckkpkhuwqhkkhultusfdkufucegvruhkdwguwquwl,ufqh
lsecuqkwlskaulsfluowakpfquqtauWusfhufqrulwpkultu kkauwqltuteauiakk r
lstexslcm

“CtpkuowolrupwgkcuykgtnulskuWqqkauClflwtqunkuifpkue tqufuselutouakkhc,
fquwqigwqkhufqhupkgfqistgru tgk,unwlsulskueqakitxqwjfygkulfllkacuto
nsflusfhuykkqufuogfxutouctpkuctaluogrwqxuoatpuwl,ufqhufuqkflgruclfivkh
ntth- wgkmuLswcunfcueqkb kilkhmuNkuifpkultulskuyfqv,ufqhutqulskuclfivuto
owakntthuoteqhufuogflu wkikutouytfahunwlsuctpkuofhkhu kqiwg-nawlwqx
tquwlmuNskquhkiw skakhuwlucfwh:u'NtthuotaurtemuSeaarue muF  atfis
ifelwtecgrm'uLskakunfcufucwxqfleak,uyeluwlunfcuwggkxwygk--qtl
Vealj--fupeisugtqxkauntahmu'Seaarue m'uNskak?uE ulskuawdka?u'F  atfis
ifelwtecgrm'uNkusfhuqtluhtqkuctmuYelulskunfaqwqxuiteghuqtlusfdkuykkq
pkfqluotaulsku gfikunskakuwluiteghuykutqgruoteqhufolkauf  atfism
CtpklswqxunfcunatqxufytdkmuYelunsfl--fqhustnupeis?uLsflunfculsk
zekclwtqmuNkuitppkqlkhufhdkackgrue tqulskuwpykiwgwlrutoulsflulkgkxaf swi
clrgkmuLskuyecsufateqhucfwhuqtlswqx,ufqhunteghuqtlugkluecugttvudkaruofa,
kwlskamuFultaquiealfwqutouakhulnwgguseqxuwqulskuhttanfrutoulskusel,ufqh
ogf  khucfhgruwquteauofikcmuLskuhnkggwqxunfcuhwcpfqlgkh;uyelunkuitegh
ckkufunswlkupfqusfhugwdkhulskakuqtludkarugtqxufxtmuLskakuakpfwqkhufuaehk
lfygk--fu gfqvutqulntu tclc;ufuskf utouaeyywcsuak tckhuwqufuhfavuitaqka,
fqhuyrulskuhttauWu wivkhue ufuyttvmuWlusfhugtcluwlcuitdkac,ufqhulsk
 fxkcusfhuykkqulsepykhuwqltufuclflkutoukblakpkgruhwalructolqkcc;uyelulsk
yfivusfhuykkqugtdwqxgruclwliskhufoakcsunwlsunswlkuitlltqulsakfh,unswis
gttvkhuigkfqurklmuWlunfcufqukblaftahwqfaruowqhmuWlculwlgkunfc,u_Fq
Wqzewaruwqltuctpku twqlcutouCkfpfqcsw _,uyrufupfquLtncka,uLtnctq--ctpk
ceisuqfpk--PfclkauwquswcuPf.kclr'cuQfdrmuLskupfllkaugttvkhuhakfar
akfhwqxukqtexs,unwlsuwggeclaflwdkuhwfxafpcufqhuak egcwdkulfygkcuto
owxeakc,ufqhulskuit runfcucwblrurkfacutghmuWusfqhgkhulswcufpfjwqx
fqlwzewlrunwlsulskuxakflkclu tccwygkulkqhkaqkcc,ugkcluwlucsteghuhwcctgdk
wquprusfqhcmuNwlswq,uLtnctqutauLtnckaunfcuwqzewawqxukfaqkclgruwqltulsk
yakfvwqxuclafwqutoucsw c'uisfwqcufqhulfivgk,ufqhutlskauceisupfllkacmuQtl
fudkarukqlsafggwqxuyttv;uyeluflulskuowacluxgfqikurteuiteghuckkulskakuf
cwqxgkqkccutouwqlkqlwtq,ufqustqkcluitqikaquotaulskuawxslunfrutouxtwqx
ltuntav,unswisupfhkulskckusepygku fxkc,ulstexsluteluctupfqrurkfacufxt,
gepwqtecunwlsufqtlskaulsfqufu atokccwtqfgugwxslmuLskucwp gkutghucfwgta,
nwlsuswculfgvutouisfwqcufqhu eaisfckc,upfhkupkuotaxklulsku.eqxgkufqh
lsku wgxawpcuwqufuhkgwiwtecuckqcflwtqutousfdwqxuitpkue tquctpklswqx
eqpwclfvfygruakfgmuCeisufuyttvuykwqxulskakunfcuntqhkaoegukqtexs;uyel
clwgguptakufclteqhwqxunkakulskuqtlkcu kqiwggkhuwqulskupfaxwq,ufqh
 gfwqgruakokaawqxultulskulkblmuWuiteghq'luykgwkdkuprukrkc!uLskrunkakuwq
iw ska!uRkc,uwlugttvkhugwvkuiw skamuOfqirufupfqugexxwqxunwlsuswpuf
yttvutoulsfluhkciaw lwtquwqltulswcuqtnskakufqhuclehrwqxuwl--fqhupfvwqx
qtlkc--wquiw skauflulsfl!uWlunfcufqukblafdfxfqluprclkarm

“Wusfhuykkquhwpgrufnfakuotauctpkulwpkutoufuntaarwqxuqtwck,ufqhunskquW
gwolkhuprukrkcuWucfnulskuntth- wgkunfcuxtqk,ufqhulskupfqfxka,ufwhkhuyr
fggulsku wgxawpc,unfcucstelwqxuflupkuoatpulskuawdkacwhkmuWucgw  khulsk
yttvuwqltupru tivklmuWufcceakurteultugkfdkutoouakfhwqxunfcugwvkulkfawqx
prckgoufnfruoatpulskucskglkautoufqutghufqhuctgwhuoawkqhcsw m

“Wuclfalkhulskugfpkukqxwqkufskfhmu'Wlupecluykulswcupwckafygkulafhka--lswc
wqlaehka,'ukbigfwpkhulskupfqfxka,ugttvwqxuyfivupfgkdtgkqlgruflulsku gfik
nkusfhugkolmu'SkupecluykuKqxgwcs,'uWucfwhmu'Wlunwgguqtlucfdkuswpuoatp
xkllwqxuwqltulateygkuwouskuwcuqtluifakoeg,'upellkakhulskupfqfxkauhfavgrm
Wutyckadkhunwlsufccepkhuwqqtikqikulsfluqtupfqunfcucfokuoatpulateygkuwq
lswcuntaghm

“Lskuieaakqlunfcuptakuaf whuqtn,ulskuclkfpkauckkpkhufluskaugfcluxfc ,
lskuclkaq-nskkguogt  khugfqxewhgr,ufqhuWuifexsluprckgougwclkqwqxutq
lw ltkuotaulskuqkbluykflutoulskuytfl,uotauwquctykaulaelsuWukb kilkhulsk
nakliskhulswqxultuxwdkue ukdkaruptpkqlmuWlunfcugwvkunfliswqxulskugfcl
ogwivkacutoufugwokmuYeluclwggunkuiafngkhmuCtpklwpkcuWunteghu wivuteluf
lakkufugwllgkunfrufskfhultupkfceakuteau atxakccultnfahcuVealjuyr,uyel
WugtcluwluwqdfawfygruykotakunkuxtlufyakfclmuLtuvkk ulskukrkcuctugtqx
tqutqkulswqxunfculttupeisuotausepfqu flwkqikmuLskupfqfxkauhwc gfrkh
fuykfelwoeguakcwxqflwtqmuWuoakllkhufqhuoepkhufqhulttvultufaxewqxunwls
prckgounsklskautauqtuWunteghulfgvut kqgrunwlsuVealj;uyeluykotakuWuitegh
itpkultufqruitqigecwtquwlutiieaakhultupkulsflupruc kkisutauprucwgkqik,
wqhkkhufqrufilwtqutoupwqk,unteghuykufupkakuoelwgwlrmuNsfluhwhuwlupfllka
nsflufqrutqkuvqknutauwxqtakh?uNsfluhwhuwlupfllkaunstunfcupfqfxka?uTqk
xklcuctpklwpkcuceisufuogfcsutouwqcwxslmuLskukcckqlwfgcutoulswcufoofwa
gfruhkk ueqhkaulskuceaofik,uykrtqhupruakfis,ufqhuykrtqhupru tnkauto
pkhhgwqxm

“Ltnfahculskukdkqwqxutoulskuckitqhuhfrunku.ehxkhuteackgdkcufytelukwxsl
pwgkcuoatpuVealj'cuclflwtqmuWunfqlkhultu ecsutq;uyelulskupfqfxkaugttvkh
xafdk,ufqhultghupkulskuqfdwxflwtque ulskakunfcuctuhfqxkateculsfluwl
nteghuykufhdwcfygk,ulskucequykwqxudkarugtnufgakfhr,ultunfwlunskakunk
nkakulwgguqkbluptaqwqxmuPtaktdka,usku twqlkhutelulsfluwoulskunfaqwqx
ltuf  atfisuifelwtecgrunkakultuykuotggtnkh,unkupecluf  atfisuwq
hfrgwxsl--qtlufluhecvutauwqulskuhfavmuLswcunfcuckqcwygkukqtexsmuKwxsl
pwgkcupkfqluqkfagrulsakkusteac'uclkfpwqxuotauec,ufqhuWuiteghufgctuckk
cec wiwtecuaw  gkcuflulskue  kaukqhutoulskuakfismuQkdkalskgkcc,uWunfc
fqqtrkhuykrtqhukb akccwtquflulskuhkgfr,ufqhuptclueqakfctqfygr,ultt,
cwqikutqkuqwxsluptakuiteghuqtlupfllkaupeisufolkauctupfqruptqlscmuFcunk
sfhu gkqlrutountth,ufqhuifelwtqunfculskuntah,uWuyatexslue uwqulskupwhhgk
toulskuclakfpmuLskuakfisunfcuqfaatn,uclafwxsl,unwlsuswxsucwhkcugwvkuf
afwgnfruiellwqxmuLskuhecvuifpkuxgwhwqxuwqltuwlugtqxuykotakulskucequsfh
cklmuLskuieaakqluafqucpttlsufqhucnwol,uyelufuhepyuwpptywgwlrucflutqulsk
yfqvcmuLskugwdwqxulakkc,ugfcskhultxklskauyrulskuiakk kacufqhukdkar
gwdwqxuyecsutoulskueqhkaxatnls,upwxslusfdkuykkquisfqxkhuwqltucltqk,ukdkq
ltulskucgkqhkakclulnwx,ultulskugwxslkclugkfomuWlunfcuqtlucgkk --wl
ckkpkhueqqfleafg,ugwvkufuclflkutoulafqikmuQtlulskuofwqlkclucteqhutoufqr
vwqhuiteghuykuskfahmuRteugttvkhutqufpfjkh,ufqhuykxfqultucec kilurteackgo
touykwqxuhkfo--lskqulskuqwxsluifpkucehhkqgr,ufqhuclaeivurteuygwqhufc
nkggmuFytelulsakkuwqulskuptaqwqxuctpkugfaxkuowcsugkf kh,ufqhulskugteh
c gfcsupfhkupku.ep ufculstexsufuxequsfhuykkquowakhmuNskqulskucequatck
lskakunfcufunswlkuotx,udkarunfapufqhuigfppr,ufqhuptakuygwqhwqxulsfqulsk
qwxslmuWluhwhuqtlucswolutauhawdk;uwlunfcu.eclulskak,uclfqhwqxufgguateqh
rteugwvkuctpklswqxuctgwhmuFlukwxslutauqwqk,u kasf c,uwlugwolkhufcuf
csellkaugwolcmuNkusfhufuxgwp ckutoulskultnkawqxupeglwlehkutoulakkc,uto
lskuwppkqckupfllkhu.eqxgk,unwlsulskuygfjwqxugwllgkuyfggutoulskuceq
sfqxwqxutdkauwl--fggu kaokilgruclwgg--fqhulskqulskunswlkucsellkauifpk
htnqufxfwq,ucpttlsgr,ufcuwoucgwhwqxuwquxakfckhuxattdkcmuWutahkakhulsk
isfwq,unswisunkusfhuykxequltuskfdkuwq,ultuyku fwhutelufxfwqmuYkotakuwl
clt  khuaeqqwqxunwlsufupeoogkhuafllgk,ufuiar,ufudkarugtehuiar,ufcuto
wqowqwlkuhkctgflwtq,uctfakhucgtngruwqulskut fzekufwamuWluikfckhmuF
itp gfwqwqxuigfptea,upthegflkhuwqucfdfxkuhwcitahc,uowggkhuteaukfacmuLsk
cskkaueqkb kilkhqkccutouwlupfhkuprusfwauclwaueqhkaupruif muWuhtq'luvqtn
stnuwluclaeivulskutlskac:ultupkuwluckkpkhufculstexsulskupwcluwlckgousfh
ciakfpkh,uctucehhkqgr,ufqhuf  fakqlgruoatpufggucwhkcuflutqik,uhwhulswc
lepegletecufqhupteaqoegue atfaufawckmuWluiegpwqflkhuwqufuseaawkh
telyakfvutoufgptcluwqltgkafygrukbikccwdkucsawkvwqx,unswisuclt  khucstal,
gkfdwqxuecuclwookqkhuwqufudfawklrutoucwggrufllwlehkc,ufqhutyclwqflkgr
gwclkqwqxultulskuqkfagrufcuf  fggwqxufqhukbikccwdkucwgkqikmu'XtthuXth!
Nsfluwculskupkfqwqx--'uclfppkakhufluprukgytnutqkutoulsku wgxawpc--f
gwllgkuoflupfq,unwlsucfqhrusfwaufqhuakhunswcvkac,unstuntakucwhkc awqx
yttlc,ufqhu wqvu r.fpfculeivkhuwqltuswcuctivcmuLntutlskacuakpfwqkh
t kq-ptelskhufunswgkupwqelk,ulskquhfcskhuwqltulskugwllgkuifywq,ultuaecs
teluwqitqlwqkqlgrufqhuclfqhuhfalwqxucifakhuxgfqikc,unwlsuNwqiskclkacufl
'akfhr'uwqulskwausfqhcmuNsflunkuiteghuckkunfcu.eclulskuclkfpkaunkunkak
tq,uskautelgwqkcuygeaakhufculstexsucskusfhuykkqutqulsku twqluto
hwcctgdwqx,ufqhufupwclruclaw utounflka,u kasf culntuokkluyatfh,ufateqh
ska--fqhulsflunfcufggmuLskuakclutoulskuntaghunfcuqtnskak,ufcuofaufcutea
krkcufqhukfacunkakuitqikaqkhmu.ecluqtnskakmuXtqk,uhwcf  kfakh;ucnk lutoo
nwlstelugkfdwqxufunswc kautaufucsfhtnuykswqhm

“Wunkqluotanfah,ufqhutahkakhulskuisfwqultuykusfegkhuwqucstal,uctufcult
ykuakfhrultulaw ulskufqistaufqhuptdkulskuclkfpytfluflutqikuwouqkikccfarm
'Nwggulskrufllfiv?'unswc kakhufqufnkhudtwikmu'Nkunwgguykufgguyeliskakh
wqulswcuotx,'upeapeakhufqtlskamuLskuofikculnwliskhunwlsulskuclafwq,ulsk
sfqhculakpygkhucgwxslgr,ulskukrkcuotaxtlultunwqvmuWlunfcudkaruieawtec
ltuckkulskuitqlafclutoukb akccwtqcutoulskunswlkupkqufqhutoulskuygfiv
okggtncutouteauiakn,unstunkakufcupeisuclafqxkacultulsflu falutoulsk
awdkaufcunk,ulstexsulskwaustpkcunkakutqgrukwxsluseqhakhupwgkcufnfrmuLsk
nswlkc,utouiteackuxakflgruhwcitp tckh,usfhuykcwhkcufuieawtecugttvuto
ykwqxu fwqoeggrucstivkhuyruceisufqutelafxktecuatnmuLskutlskacusfhufq
fgkal,uqfleafggruwqlkakclkhukb akccwtq;uyelulskwauofikcunkakukcckqlwfggr
zewkl,ukdkqulstckutoulskutqkutaulntunstuxawqqkhufculskrusfegkhuflulsk
isfwqmuCkdkafgukbisfqxkhucstal,uxaeqlwqxu safckc,unswisuckkpkhultuckllgk
lskupfllkaultulskwaucflwcofilwtqmuLskwauskfhpfq,ufurteqx,uyatfh-iskclkh
ygfiv,uckdkakgruhaf khuwquhfav-ygekuoawqxkhuigtlsc,unwlsuowkaikuqtclawgc
fqhuswcusfwaufgguhtqkue ufaloeggruwqutwgruawqxgklc,ucltthuqkfaupkm
'Fsf!'uWucfwh,u.ecluotauxtthuokggtncsw 'cucfvkmu'Iflisu'wp,'uskucqf  kh,
nwlsufuygtthcstlunwhkqwqxutouswcukrkcufqhufuogfcsutoucsfa ulkkls--'iflis
'wpmuXwdku'wpultuecm'u'Lturte,uks?'uWufcvkh;u'nsflunteghurteuhtunwls
lskp?'u'Kflu'wp!'uskucfwhuiealgr,ufqh,ugkfqwqxuswcukgytnutqulskuafwg,
gttvkhuteluwqltulskuotxuwqufuhwxqwowkhufqhu atoteqhgru kqcwdkufllwlehkm
Wunteghuqtuhteylusfdkuykkqu at kagrustaawowkh,usfhuwluqtlutiieaakhult
pkulsfluskufqhuswcuisf cupecluykudkaruseqxar:ulsflulskrupeclusfdkuykkq
xatnwqxuwqiakfcwqxgruseqxaruotauflugkfclulswcuptqlsu fclmuLskrusfhuykkq
kqxfxkhuotaucwbuptqlscu(Wuhtq'lulswqvufucwqxgkutqkutoulskpusfhufqr
igkfauwhkfutoulwpk,ufcunkuflulskukqhutouiteqlgkccufxkcusfdkmuLskruclwgg
ykgtqxkhultulskuykxwqqwqxcutoulwpk--sfhuqtuwqskawlkhukb kawkqikultulkfis
lskpufcuwlunkak),ufqhutouiteack,ufcugtqxufculskakunfcufu wkikutou f ka
nawllkqutdkauwqufiitahfqikunwlsuctpkuofaiwifgugfnutautlskaupfhkuhtnqulsk
awdka,uwluhwhq'lukqlkaufqrythr'cuskfhultulateygkustnulskrunteghugwdkm
Ikalfwqgrulskrusfhuyatexslunwlsulskpuctpkuatllkqusw  t-pkfl,unswis
iteghq'lusfdkugfclkhudkarugtqx,ufqrnfr,ukdkquwoulsku wgxawpcusfhq'l,uwq
lskupwhclutoufucstivwqxuseggfyfgtt,ulsatnqufuitqcwhkafygkuzefqlwlrutouwl
tdkaytfahmuWlugttvkhugwvkufuswxs-sfqhkhu atikkhwqx;uyeluwlunfcuakfggr
fuifckutougkxwlwpflkuckgo-hkokqikmuRteuifq'luyakflskuhkfhusw  tunfvwqx,
cgkk wqx,ufqhukflwqx,ufqhuflulskucfpkulwpkuvkk urteau akifawtecuxaw utq
kbwclkqikmuYkcwhkculsfl,ulskrusfhuxwdkqulskpukdkarunkkvulsakku wkikcuto
yafccunwak,ukfisufyteluqwqkuwqiskcugtqx;ufqhulskulsktarunfculskrunkakult
yerulskwau atdwcwtqcunwlsulsfluieaakqiruwquawdkacwhkudwggfxkcmuRteuifq
ckkustnu_lsfl_untavkhmuLskakunkakukwlskauqtudwggfxkc,utaulsku kt gkunkak
stclwgk,utaulskuhwakilta,unstugwvkulskuakclutouecuokhutelutoulwqc,unwls
fqutiifcwtqfgutghusk-xtflulsatnquwq,uhwhq'lunfqlultuclt ulskuclkfpkauota
ctpkuptakutaugkccuakitqhwlkuakfctqmuCt,ueqgkcculskrucnfggtnkhulskunwak
wlckgo,utaupfhkugtt cutouwlultucqfakulskuowcskcunwls,uWuhtq'luckkunsfl
xtthulskwaukblafdfxfqlucfgfaruiteghuykultulskpmuWupeclucfruwlunfcu fwh
nwlsufuakxegfawlruntalsrutoufugfaxkufqhustqteafygkulafhwqxuitp fqrmuOta
lskuakcl,ulskutqgrulswqxultukfl--lstexsuwluhwhq'lugttvukflfygkuwqulsk
gkfcl--Wucfnuwqulskwau tcckccwtqunfcufuoknugep cutouctpkucleoougwvk
sfgo-ittvkhuhtexs,utoufuhwalrugfdkqhkauitgtea,ulskruvk lunaf  khuwq
gkfdkc,ufqhuqtnufqhulskqucnfggtnkhufu wkikuto,uyeluctucpfggulsfluwl
ckkpkhuhtqkuptakuotaulskugttvcutoulskulswqxulsfquotaufqruckawtecu ea tck
touceclkqfqikmuNsruwqulskuqfpkutoufggulskuxqfnwqxuhkdwgcutouseqxkaulskr
hwhq'luxtuotauec--lskrunkakulswalrultuowdk--fqhusfdkufuxtthuleiv-wquota
tqik,ufpfjkcupkuqtnunskquWulswqvutouwlmuLskrunkakuywxu tnkaoegupkq,
nwlsuqtlupeisuif fiwlrultunkwxsulskuitqckzekqikc,unwlsuiteafxk,unwls
clakqxls,ukdkqurkl,ulstexsulskwaucvwqcunkakuqtugtqxkauxgtccrufqhulskwa
pecigkcuqtugtqxkausfahmuFqhuWucfnulsfluctpklswqxuakclafwqwqx,utqkuto
lstckusepfquckiaklculsfluyfoogku atyfywgwlr,usfhuitpkuwqltu gfrulskakm
Wugttvkhuflulskpunwlsufucnwoluzewivkqwqxutouwqlkakcl--qtluykifeckuwl
tiieaakhultupkuWupwxsluykukflkquyrulskpuykotakudkarugtqx,ulstexsuWutnq
lturteulsflu.eclulskquWu kaikwdkh--wqufuqknugwxsl,ufcuwlunkak--stn
eqnstgkctpkulsku wgxawpcugttvkh,ufqhuWust kh,urkc,uWu tcwlwdkgrust kh,
lsfluprufc kilunfcuqtluct--nsflucsfgguWucfr?--ct--eqf  klwjwqx:ufulteis
touofqlfclwiudfqwlrunswisuowllkhunkggunwlsulskuhakfp-ckqcflwtqulsfl
 kadfhkhufggupruhfrcuflulsflulwpkmu kasf cuWusfhufugwllgkuokdka,ulttm
Tqkuifq'lugwdkunwlsutqk'cuowqxkaukdkagfclwqxgrutqutqk'cu egckmuWusfh
tolkqu'fugwllgkuokdka,'utaufugwllgkulteisutoutlskaulswqxc--lsku gfroeg
 fn-clatvkcutoulskunwghkaqkcc,ulsku akgwpwqfarulawogwqxuykotakulskuptak
ckawtecutqcgfexslunswisuifpkuwquhekuiteackmuRkc;uWugttvkhuflulskpufcurte
nteghutqufqrusepfquykwqx,unwlsufuieawtcwlrutoulskwauwp egckc,uptlwdkc,
if fiwlwkc,unkfvqkcckc,unskquyatexslultulskulkclutoufquwqkbtafygk
 srcwifguqkikccwlrmuAkclafwql!uNsflu tccwygkuakclafwql?uNfcuwl
ce kaclwlwtq,uhwcxecl,u flwkqik,uokfa--tauctpkuvwqhutou awpwlwdkustqtea?
Qtuokfauifquclfqhue ultuseqxka,uqtu flwkqikuifqunkfauwlutel,uhwcxecl
cwp gruhtkcuqtlukbwclunskakuseqxkauwc;ufqhufcultuce kaclwlwtq,uykgwkoc,
fqhunsflurteupfruifggu awqiw gkc,ulskrufakugkcculsfquisfoouwqufuyakkjkm
Htq'lurteuvqtnulskuhkdwgarutougwqxkawqxuclfadflwtq,uwlcukbfc kaflwqx
ltapkql,uwlcuygfivulstexslc,uwlcuctpyakufqhuyatthwqxuokatiwlr?uNkgg,
WuhtmuWlulfvkcufupfqufgguswcuwqytaquclakqxlsultuowxsluseqxkau at kagrm
Wl'cuakfggrukfcwkaultuofikuykakfdkpkql,uhwcstqtea,ufqhulsku kahwlwtquto
tqk'cucteg--lsfqulswcuvwqhutou atgtqxkhuseqxkamuCfh,uyelulaekmuFqhulskck
isf c,ultt,usfhuqtukfalsgruakfctquotaufqruvwqhutouciae gkmuAkclafwql!uW
nteghu.eclufcucttqusfdkukb kilkhuakclafwqluoatpufusrkqfu atngwqxufptqxcl
lskuita ckcutoufuyfllgkowkghmuYelulskakunfculskuofiluofiwqxupk--lskuofil
hfjjgwqx,ultuykuckkq,ugwvkulskuotfputqulskuhk lscutoulskuckf,ugwvkuf
aw  gkutqufqueqoflstpfygkukqwxpf,ufuprclkaruxakflka--nskquWulstexsl
touwl--lsfqulskuieawtec,uwqkb gwifygkuqtlkutouhkc kaflkuxawkouwqulswc
cfdfxkuigfpteaulsflusfhucnk luyruecutqulskuawdka-yfqv,uykswqhulskuygwqh
nswlkqkccutoulskuotxm

“Lntu wgxawpcunkakuzefaakggwqxuwquseaawkhunswc kacufcultunswisuyfqvm
'Gkolm'u'qt,uqt;ustnuifqurte?uAwxsl,uawxsl,utouiteackm'u'Wluwcudkar
ckawtec,'ucfwhulskupfqfxka'cudtwikuykswqhupk;u'Wunteghuykuhkctgflkhuwo
fqrlswqxucsteghusf  kqultuPamuVealjuykotakunkuifpkue m'uWugttvkhufluswp,
fqhusfhuqtlulskucgwxslkcluhteyluskunfcucwqikakmuSkunfcu.eclulskuvwqhuto
pfqunstunteghunwcsultu akckadkuf  kfafqikcmuLsflunfcuswcuakclafwqlmuYel
nskquskupellkakhuctpklswqxufyteluxtwqxutquflutqik,uWuhwhuqtlukdkqulfvk
lskulateygkultufqcnkauswpmuWuvqkn,ufqhuskuvqkn,ulsfluwlunfcuwp tccwygkm
Nkakunkultugkluxtuteaustghutoulskuytlltp,unkunteghuykufyctgelkgruwq
lskufwa--wquc fikmuNkunteghq'luykufygkultulkggunskakunkunkakuxtwqx
lt--nsklskaue utauhtnquclakfp,utaufiatcc--lwggunkuokliskhufxfwqclutqk
yfqvutaulskutlska--fqhulskqunkunteghq'luvqtnufluowaclunswisuwlunfcm
TouiteackuWupfhkuqtuptdkmuWusfhuqtupwqhuotaufucpfcs-e muRteuiteghq'l
wpfxwqkufuptakuhkfhgru gfikuotaufucsw nakivmuNsklskaunkuhatnqkhufl
tqikutauqtl,unkunkakuceakultu kawcsuc kkhwgruwqutqkunfrutaufqtlskamu'W
felstawjkurteultulfvkufggulskuawcvc,'uskucfwh,ufolkaufucstalucwgkqikm
'Wuakoeckultulfvkufqr,'uWucfwhucstalgr;unswisunfcu.eclulskufqcnkausk
kb kilkh,ulstexsuwlcultqkupwxslusfdkucea awckhuswpmu'Nkgg,uWupecluhkoka
lturteau.ehxpkqlmuRteufakuif lfwq,'uskucfwhunwlsupfavkhuiwdwgwlrmuW
leaqkhuprucsteghkaultuswpuwqucwxqutoupruf  akiwflwtq,ufqhugttvkhuwqlt
lskuotxmuStnugtqxunteghuwlugfcl?uWlunfculskuptclust kgkccugttvtelmuLsk
f  atfisultulswcuVealjuxaeyywqxuotauwdtaruwqulskunakliskhuyecsunfcuykckl
yrufcupfqruhfqxkacufculstexsuskusfhuykkqufqukqisfqlkhu awqikccucgkk wqx
wqufuofyegtecuifclgkmu'Nwggulskrufllfiv,uhturteulswqv?'ufcvkhulsk
pfqfxka,uwqufuitqowhkqlwfgultqkm

“Wuhwhuqtlulswqvulskrunteghufllfiv,uotauckdkafgutydwtecuakfctqcmuLsk
lswivuotxunfcutqkmuWoulskrugkolulskuyfqvuwqulskwauifqtkculskrunteghuxkl
gtcluwquwl,ufcunkunteghuykuwounkufllkp lkhultuptdkmuClwgg,uWusfhufgct
.ehxkhulsku.eqxgkutouytlsuyfqvcuzewlkuwp kqklafygk--fqhurklukrkcunkak
wquwl,ukrkculsflusfhuckkquecmuLskuawdkacwhkuyecskcunkakuikalfwqgrudkar
lswiv;uyelulskueqhkaxatnlsuykswqhunfcukdwhkqlgru kqklafygkm
Stnkdka,uheawqxulskucstalugwoluWusfhuckkquqtuifqtkcufqrnskakuwqulsk
akfis--ikalfwqgruqtlufyakfclutoulskuclkfpkamuYelunsflupfhkulskuwhkfuto
fllfivuwqitqikwdfygkultupkunfculskuqfleakutoulskuqtwck--toulskuiawkcunk
sfhuskfahmuLskrusfhuqtlulskuowkaikuisfafilkauythwqxuwppkhwflkustclwgk
wqlkqlwtqmuEqkb kilkh,unwgh,ufqhudwtgkqlufculskrusfhuykkq,ulskrusfh
xwdkqupkufquwaakcwclwygkuwp akccwtqutouctaatnmuLskuxgwp ckutoulsk
clkfpytflusfhuotauctpkuakfctquowggkhulstckucfdfxkcunwlsueqakclafwqkh
xawkomuLskuhfqxka,uwoufqr,uWukb teqhkh,unfcuoatputeau atbwpwlrultuf
xakflusepfqu fccwtqugklugttckmuKdkqukblakpkuxawkoupfrueglwpflkgrudkql
wlckgouwqudwtgkqik--yeluptakuxkqkafggrulfvkculskuotaputouf flsrmmmm

“Rteucsteghusfdkuckkqulsku wgxawpcuclfak!uLskrusfhuqtuskfalultuxawq,uta
kdkqultuakdwgkupk:uyeluWuykgwkdkulskrulstexslupkuxtqkupfh--nwlsuoawxsl,
pfrykmuWuhkgwdkakhufuakxegfaugkileakmuPruhkfauytrc,uwlunfcuqtuxtth
ytlskawqxmuVkk ufugttvtel?uNkgg,urteupfruxekccuWunfliskhulskuotxuota
lskucwxqcutougwolwqxufcufuiflunfliskcufupteck;uyeluotaufqrlswqxukgckutea
krkcunkakutouqtuptakueckultueculsfquwounkusfhuykkquyeawkhupwgkcuhkk uwq
fuskf utouitlltq-nttgmuWluokglugwvkuwl,ultt--istvwqx,unfap,uclwogwqxm
Ykcwhkc,ufgguWucfwh,ulstexsuwlucteqhkhukblafdfxfql,unfcufyctgelkgr
laekultuofilmuNsflunkufolkanfahcufggehkhultufcufqufllfivunfcuakfggrufq
fllkp lufluak egckmuLskufilwtqunfcudkaruofauoatpuykwqxufxxakccwdk--wl
nfcuqtlukdkquhkokqcwdk,uwqulskuecefguckqck:uwlunfcueqhkalfvkqueqhkaulsk
clakccutouhkc kaflwtq,ufqhuwquwlcukcckqikunfcu eakgru atlkilwdkm

“Wluhkdkgt khuwlckgo,uWucsteghucfr,ulntusteacufolkaulskuotxugwolkh,ufqh
wlcuitppkqikpkqlunfcuflufuc tl,uatexsgruc kfvwqx,ufytelufupwgkufqhuf
sfgouykgtnuVealj'cuclflwtqmuNkusfhu.ecluogteqhkakhufqhuogt  khuateqhuf
ykqh,unskquWucfnufquwcgkl,ufupkakuxafccrusepptivutouyawxsluxakkq,uwqulsk
pwhhgkutoulskuclakfpmuWlunfculskutqgrulswqxutoulskuvwqh;uyelufcunkut kqkh
lskuakfisuptak,uWu kaikwdkhuwlunfculskuskfhutoufugtqxucfqh-yfqv,uta
aflskautoufuisfwqutoucsfggtnu fliskcuclakliswqxuhtnqulskupwhhgkutoulsk
awdkamuLskrunkakuhwcitgteakh,u.eclufnfcs,ufqhulskunstgkugtlunfcuckkq
.eclueqhkaulskunflka,ukbfilgrufcufupfq'cuyfivytqkuwcuckkquaeqqwqxuhtnq
lskupwhhgkutouswcuyfivueqhkaulskucvwqmuQtn,ufcuofaufcuWuhwhuckk,uWuitegh
xtultulskuawxslutaultulskugkolutoulswcmuWuhwhq'luvqtnukwlskauisfqqkg,uto
iteackmuLskuyfqvcugttvkhu akllrunkggufgwvk,ulskuhk lsuf  kfakhulskucfpk;
yelufcuWusfhuykkquwqotapkhulskuclflwtqunfcutqulskunkclucwhk,uWuqfleafggr
skfhkhuotaulskunkclkaqu fccfxkm

“QtucttqkausfhunkuofwagrukqlkakhuwlulsfquWuykifpkufnfakuwlunfcupeis
qfaatnkaulsfquWusfhuce  tckhmuLtulskugkolutoueculskakunfculskugtqx
eqwqlkaae lkhucstfg,ufqhultulskuawxslufuswxs,uclkk uyfqvuskfdwgr
tdkaxatnqunwlsuyecskcmuFytdkulskuyecsulskulakkcucltthuwquckaawkhuafqvcm
Lskulnwxcutdkaseqxulskuieaakqlulswivgr,ufqhuoatpuhwclfqikultuhwclfqikuf
gfaxkugwpyutouctpkulakku at.kilkhuawxwhgrutdkaulskuclakfpmuWlunfculskq
nkggutquwqulskufolkaqttq,ulskuofikutoulskuotakclunfcuxgttpr,ufqhuf
yatfhuclaw utoucsfhtnusfhufgakfhruofggkqutqulskunflkamuWqulswcucsfhtn
nkuclkfpkhue --dkarucgtngr,ufcurteupfruwpfxwqkmuWucskkakhuskaunkgg
wqcstak--lskunflkauykwqxuhkk kcluqkfaulskuyfqv,ufculskucteqhwqx- tgk
wqotapkhupkm

“Tqkutoupruseqxarufqhuotaykfawqxuoawkqhcunfcucteqhwqxuwqulskuytncu.ecl
ykgtnupkmuLswcuclkfpytflunfcukbfilgrugwvkufuhkivkhucitnmuTqulskuhkiv,
lskakunkakulntugwllgkulkfvntthusteckc,unwlsuhttacufqhunwqhtncmuLsk
ytwgkaunfcuwqulskuotak-kqh,ufqhulskupfiswqkaruawxslufclkaqmuTdka
lskunstgkulskakunfcufugwxsluatto,uce  talkhutquclfqiswtqcmuLskuoeqqkg
 at.kilkhulsatexsulsfluatto,ufqhuwquoatqlutoulskuoeqqkgufucpfgguifywq
yewglutougwxslu gfqvcuckadkhuotaufu wgtl-steckmuWluitqlfwqkhufuiteis,
lntuifp -clttgc,ufugtfhkhuPfalwqw-Skqarugkfqwqxuwqutqkuitaqka,ufulwqr
lfygk,ufqhulskuclkkawqx-nskkgmuWlusfhufunwhkuhttauwquoatqlufqhufuyatfh
csellkauflukfisucwhkmuFggulskckunkakufgnfrculsatnqut kq,utouiteackmuW
c kqlupruhfrcu kaiskhue ulskakutqulskukblakpkuotak-kqhutoulsfluatto,
ykotakulskuhttamuFluqwxsluWucgk l,utaulawkhult,utqulskuiteismuFq
flsgklwiuygfivuykgtqxwqxultuctpkuitfclulawykufqhukheiflkhuyrupru tta
 akhkikccta,unfculskuskgpcpfqmuSkuc talkhufu fwautouyafccukfaawqxc,untak
fuygekuigtlsunaf  kauoatpulskunfwclultulskufqvgkc,ufqhulstexslufggulsk
ntaghutouswpckgomuSkunfculskuptclueqclfygkuvwqhutouottguWusfhukdkauckkqm
Skuclkkakhunwlsuqtukqhutoufucnfxxkaunswgkurteunkakuyr;uyeluwouskugtcl
cwxslutourte,uskuykifpkuwqclfqlgrulsku akrutoufqufy.kiluoeqv,ufqhuntegh
gklulsfluiaw  gkutoufuclkfpytfluxklulskue  kausfqhutouswpuwqufupwqelkm

“Wunfcugttvwqxuhtnquflulskucteqhwqx- tgk,ufqhuokkgwqxupeisufqqtrkhult
ckkuflukfisularufugwllgkuptakutouwluclwivutelutoulsfluawdka,unskquWucfn
pru tgkpfquxwdkue utqulskuyecwqkccucehhkqgr,ufqhuclaklisuswpckgouogflutq
lskuhkiv,unwlstelukdkqulfvwqxulskulateygkultusfeguswcu tgkuwqmuSkuvk l
stghutquwlulstexs,ufqhuwlulafwgkhuwqulskunflkamuFlulskucfpkulwpkulsk
owakpfq,unstpuWuiteghufgctuckkuykgtnupk,ucfluhtnqufyae lgruykotakuswc
oeaqfikufqhuheivkhuswcuskfhmuWunfcufpfjkhmuLskquWusfhultugttvuflulsk
awdkaupwxslruzewiv,uykifeckulskakunfcufucqfxuwqulskuofwanfrmuClwivc,
gwllgkuclwivc,unkakuogrwqxufytel--lswiv:ulskrunkakunswjjwqxuykotakupr
qtck,uhat  wqxuykgtnupk,uclawvwqxuykswqhupkufxfwqclupru wgtl-steckmuFgg
lswculwpkulskuawdka,ulskucstak,ulskuntthc,unkakudkaruzewkl-- kaokilgr
zewklmuWuiteghutqgruskfaulskuskfdruc gfcswqxulsep utoulskuclkaq-nskkg
fqhulsku fllkautoulskckulswqxcmuNkuigkfakhulskucqfxuigepcwgrmuFaatnc,uyr
.tdk!uNkunkakuykwqxucstlufl!uWuclk  khuwquzewivgrultuigtckulskucsellka
tqulskugfqhcwhkmuLsfluottg-skgpcpfq,uswcusfqhcutqulskuc tvkc,unfc
gwolwqxuswcuvqkkcuswxs,uclfp wqxuswcuokkl,uisfp wqxuswcuptels,ugwvkuf
akwqkh-wqustackmuItqoteqhuswp!uFqhunkunkakuclfxxkawqxunwlswqulkquokkluto
lskuyfqvmuWusfhultugkfquawxslutelultucnwqxulskuskfdrucsellka,ufqhuWucfn
fuofikufptqxclulskugkfdkcutqulskugkdkgunwlsuprutnq,ugttvwqxuflupkudkar
owkaikufqhuclkfhr;ufqhulskqucehhkqgr,ufculstexsufudkwgusfhuykkquakptdkh
oatpuprukrkc,uWupfhkutel,uhkk uwqulskulfqxgkhuxgttp,uqfvkhuyakfclc,
fapc,ugkxc,uxgfawqxukrkc--lskuyecsunfcucnfapwqxunwlsusepfqugwpycuwq
ptdkpkql,uxgwclkqwqxutouyatqjkuitgteamuLskulnwxcucsttv,ucnfrkh,ufqh
aeclgkh,ulskufaatncuogknutelutoulskp,ufqhulskqulskucsellkauifpkultm
'Clkkauskauclafwxsl,'uWucfwhultulskuskgpcpfqmuSkuskghuswcuskfhuawxwh,
ofikuotanfah;uyeluswcukrkcuatggkh,uskuvk lutqugwolwqxufqhuckllwqxuhtnq
swcuokkluxkqlgr,uswcuptelsuotfpkhufugwllgkmu'Vkk uzewkl!'uWucfwhuwquf
oearmuWupwxslu.eclufcunkggusfdkutahkakhufulakkuqtlultucnfruwqulskunwqhm
WuhfalkhutelmuYkgtnupkulskakunfcufuxakflucieoogkutouokklutqulskuwatq
hkiv;uitqoeckhukbigfpflwtqc;ufudtwikuciakfpkh,u'Ifqurteuleaquyfiv?'
WuifexslucwxslutoufuD-csf khuaw  gkutqulskunflkaufskfhmuNsfl?uFqtlska
cqfx!uFuoecwggfhkuyeaclutelueqhkaupruokklmuLsku wgxawpcusfhut kqkhunwls
lskwauNwqiskclkac,ufqhunkakucwp gruczewalwqxugkfhuwqltulsfluyecsmuF
hkeikutoufugtlutoucptvkuifpkue ufqhuhatdkucgtngruotanfahmuWucntakufl
wlmuQtnuWuiteghq'luckkulskuaw  gkutaulskucqfxukwlskamuWucltthuwqulsk
httanfr,u kkawqx,ufqhulskufaatncuifpkuwqucnfapcmuLskrupwxslusfdkuykkq
 twctqkh,uyelulskrugttvkhufculstexsulskrunteghq'luvwggufuiflmuLskuyecs
ykxfqultustngmuTeauntth-iellkacuafwckhufunfagwvkunstt ;ulskuak talutouf
awogku.ecluflupruyfivuhkfokqkhupkmuWuxgfqikhutdkauprucsteghka,ufqhulsk
 wgtl-steckunfcurkluoeggutouqtwckufqhucptvkunskquWupfhkufuhfcsuflulsk
nskkgmuLskuottg-qwxxkausfhuhat  khukdkarlswqx,ultulsatnulskucsellka
t kqufqhugklutooulsfluPfalwqw-SkqarmuSkucltthuykotakulskunwhkut kqwqx,
xgfawqx,ufqhuWurkggkhufluswpultuitpkuyfiv,unswgkuWuclafwxslkqkhulsk
cehhkqulnwclutelutoulsfluclkfpytflmuLskakunfcuqtuattpultuleaqukdkquwouW
sfhunfqlkhult,ulskucqfxunfcuctpknskakudkaruqkfaufskfhuwqulsfluitqoteqhkh
cptvk,ulskakunfcuqtulwpkultugtck,uctuWu.ecluiatnhkhuskauwqltulsk
yfqv--awxsluwqltulskuyfqv,unskakuWuvqknulskunflkaunfcuhkk m

“Nkultakucgtngrufgtqxulskutdkasfqxwqxuyecskcuwqufunswagutouyatvkqulnwxc
fqhuogrwqxugkfdkcmuLskuoecwggfhkuykgtnuclt  khucstal,ufcuWusfhuotakckkq
wlunteghunskqulskuczewalcuxtlukp lrmuWulsaknupruskfhuyfivultufuxgwqlwqx
nswjjulsflulafdkackhulsku wgtl-steck,uwquflutqkucsellka-stgkufqhutel
flulskutlskamuGttvwqxu fclulsflupfhuskgpcpfq,unstunfcucsfvwqxulskukp lr
awogkufqhurkggwqxuflulskucstak,uWucfnudfxekuotapcutoupkquaeqqwqxuykql
hteygk,ugkf wqx,uxgwhwqx,uhwclwqil,uwqitp gklk,ukdfqkcikqlmuCtpklswqx
ywxuf  kfakhuwqulskufwauykotakulskucsellka,ulskuawogkunkqlutdkaytfah,
fqhulskupfquclk  khuyfivucnwolgr,ugttvkhuflupkutdkauswcucsteghkauwqufq
kblaftahwqfar,u atoteqh,uofpwgwfaupfqqka,ufqhuokggue tqupruokklmuLsk
cwhkutouswcuskfhuswlulskunskkgulnwik,ufqhulskukqhutounsfluf  kfakh
fugtqxuifqkuigfllkakhuateqhufqhuvqtivkhutdkaufugwllgkuifp -clttgmuWl
gttvkhufculstexsufolkaunakqiswqxulsflulswqxuoatpuctpkythrufcstakuskusfh
gtcluswcuyfgfqikuwqulskukootalmuLskulswqucptvkusfhuygtnqufnfr,unkunkak
igkfautoulskucqfx,ufqhugttvwqxufskfhuWuiteghuckkulsfluwqufqtlskauseqhakh
rfahcutauctuWunteghuykuoakkultucskkautoo,ufnfruoatpulskuyfqv;uyelupr
okkluokgluctudkarunfapufqhunklulsfluWusfhultugttvuhtnqmuLskupfqusfh
atggkhutquswcuyfivufqhuclfakhuclafwxslue uflupk;uytlsuswcusfqhcuigeliskh
lsfluifqkmuWlunfculskucsfolutoufuc kfaulsfl,ukwlskaulsatnqutaugeqxkh
lsatexsulskut kqwqx,usfhuifexsluswpuwqulskucwhk,u.ecluykgtnulskuawyc;
lskuygfhkusfhuxtqkuwqutelutoucwxsl,ufolkaupfvwqxufuoawxsloeguxfcs;upr
cstkcunkakuoegg;ufu ttgutouygtthugfrudkaruclwgg,uxgkfpwqxuhfav-akhueqhka
lskunskkg;uswcukrkcucstqkunwlsufqufpfjwqxugeclakmuLskuoecwggfhkuyeacl
telufxfwqmuSkugttvkhuflupkufqbwtecgr,uxaw  wqxulskuc kfaugwvkuctpklswqx
 akiwtec,unwlsufqufwautouykwqxufoafwhuWunteghularultulfvkuwlufnfruoatp
swpmuWusfhultupfvkufqukootalultuoakkuprukrkcuoatpuswcuxfjkufqhufllkqh
ltulskuclkkawqxmuNwlsutqkusfqhuWuokglufytdkupruskfhuotaulskugwqkuto
lskuclkfpunswclgk,ufqhu.kavkhuteluciakkisufolkauciakkisuseaawkhgrmuLsk
lepeglutoufqxarufqhunfagwvkurkggcunfcuiskivkhuwqclfqlgr,ufqhulskquoatp
lskuhk lscutoulskuntthcunkqluteluceisufulakpegtecufqhu atgtqxkhunfwguto
pteaqoeguokfaufqhuellkauhkc fwaufcupfruykuwpfxwqkhultuotggtnulskuogwxsl
toulskugfclust kuoatpulskukfalsmuLskakunfcufuxakfluitpptlwtquwqulsk
yecs;ulskucstnkautoufaatncuclt  kh,ufuoknuhat  wqxucstlcuafqxutel
csfa gr--lskqucwgkqik,uwqunswisulskugfqxewhuykflutoulskuclkaq-nskkguifpk
 gfwqgrultuprukfacmuWu elulskuskgpusfahuf-clfaytfahuflulskuptpkqlunskq
lsku wgxawpuwqu wqvu r.fpfc,udkarustlufqhufxwlflkh,uf  kfakhuwqulsk
httanfrmu'Lskupfqfxkauckqhcupk--'uskuykxfquwqufqutoowiwfgultqk,ufqh
clt  khucstalmu'XtthuXth!'uskucfwh,uxgfawqxuflulskunteqhkhupfqm

“Nkulntunswlkcucltthutdkauswp,ufqhuswcugeclatecufqhuwqzewawqxuxgfqik
kqdkgt khuecuytlsmuWuhkigfakuwlugttvkhufculstexsuskunteghu akckqlgru el
ltuecuctpkuzekclwtqcuwqufqueqhkaclfqhfygkugfqxefxk;uyeluskuhwkhunwlstel
ellkawqxufucteqh,unwlsteluptdwqxufugwpy,unwlstelulnwliswqxufupecigkm
Tqgruwqulskudkarugfcluptpkql,ufculstexsuwquakc tqckultuctpkucwxqunk
iteghuqtluckk,ultuctpkunswc kaunkuiteghuqtluskfa,uskuoatnqkhuskfdwgr,
fqhulsfluoatnquxfdkultuswcuygfivuhkfls-pfcvufquwqitqikwdfygructpyak,
yatthwqx,ufqhupkqfiwqxukb akccwtqmuLskugeclakutouwqzewawqxuxgfqikuofhkh
cnwolgruwqltudfifqluxgfccwqkccmu'Ifqurteuclkka?'uWufcvkhulskufxkql
kfxkagrmuSkugttvkhudkaruheywtec;uyeluWupfhkufuxafyufluswcufap,ufqhusk
eqhkacltthuflutqikuWupkfqluswpultuclkkaunsklskautauqtmuLtulkggurte
lskulaels,uWunfcuptaywhgrufqbwtecultuisfqxkuprucstkcufqhuctivcmu'Skuwc
hkfh,'upeapeakhulskuokggtn,uwppkqckgruwp akcckhmu'Qtuhteylufyteluwl,'
cfwhuW,ulexxwqxugwvkupfhuflulskucstk-gfikcmu'Fqhuyrulskunfr,uWuce  tck
PamuVealjuwcuhkfhufcunkgguyrulswculwpkm'

“OtaulskuptpkqlulsflunfculskuhtpwqfqlulstexslmuLskakunfcufuckqckuto
kblakpkuhwcf  twqlpkql,ufculstexsuWusfhuoteqhuteluWusfhuykkquclawdwqx
folkauctpklswqxufgltxklskaunwlstelufuceyclfqikmuWuiteghq'lusfdkuykkq
ptakuhwcxeclkhuwouWusfhulafdkggkhufggulswcunfruotaulskuctgku ea tckuto
lfgvwqxunwlsuPamuVealjmuLfgvwqxunwlsmmmuWuogeqxutqkucstkutdkaytfah,
fqhuykifpkufnfakulsflulsflunfcukbfilgrunsfluWusfhuykkqugttvwqxuotanfah
lt--fulfgvunwlsuVealjmuWupfhkulskuclafqxkuhwcitdkarulsfluWusfhuqkdka
wpfxwqkhuswpufcuhtwqx,urteuvqtn,uyelufcuhwciteacwqxmuWuhwhq'lucfrult
prckgo,u'QtnuWunwgguqkdkauckkuswp,'utau'QtnuWunwgguqkdkaucsfvkuswpuyr
lskusfqh,'uyel,u'QtnuWunwgguqkdkauskfauswpm'uLskupfqu akckqlkhuswpckgo
fcufudtwikmuQtlutouiteackulsfluWuhwhuqtluitqqkiluswpunwlsuctpkuctaluto
filwtqmuSfhq'luWuykkqultghuwqufggulskultqkcutou.kfgtecrufqhufhpwaflwtq
lsfluskusfhuitggkilkh,uyfalkakh,ucnwqhgkh,utaucltgkquptakuwdtarulsfqufgg
lskutlskaufxkqlcultxklska?uLsflunfcuqtlulsku twqlmuLsku twqlunfcuwquswc
ykwqxufuxwolkhuiakfleak,ufqhulsflutoufgguswcuxwolculskutqkulsflucltth
telu akkpwqkqlgr,ulsfluifaawkhunwlsuwlufuckqckutouakfgu akckqik,unfcuswc
fywgwlrultulfgv,uswcuntahc--lskuxwolutoukb akccwtq,ulskuyknwghkawqx,
lskuwggepwqflwqx,ulskuptclukbfglkhufqhulskuptcluitqlkp lwygk,ulsk
 egcflwqxuclakfputougwxsl,utaulskuhkikwloeguogtnuoatpulskuskfalutoufq
wp kqklafygkuhfavqkccm

“Lskutlskaucstkunkqluogrwqxueqltulskuhkdwg-xthutoulsfluawdkamuWulstexsl,
'Yru.tdk!uwl'cufggutdkamuNkufakulttugflk;uskusfcudfqwcskh--lskuxwolusfc
dfqwcskh,uyrupkfqcutouctpkuc kfa,ufaatn,utauigeymuWunwgguqkdkauskfaulsfl
isf uc kfvufolkaufgg'--fqhupructaatnusfhufuclfalgwqxukblafdfxfqikuto
kptlwtq,ukdkquceisufcuWusfhuqtlwikhuwqulskustngwqxuctaatnutoulskck
cfdfxkcuwqulskuyecsmuWuiteghq'lusfdkuokgluptakutougtqkgruhkctgflwtq
ctpkstn,usfhuWuykkquatyykhutoufuykgwkoutausfhupwcckhupruhkclwqruwq
gwokmmmmuNsruhturteucwxsuwqulswcuykfclgrunfr,uctpkythr?uFyceah?uNkgg,
fyceahmuXtthuGtah!upeclq'lufupfqukdka--Skak,uxwdkupkuctpkultyfiitm”mmm

Lskakunfcufu feckutou atoteqhuclwggqkcc,ulskqufupflisuogfakh,ufqh
Pfagtn'cugkfquofikuf  kfakh,untaq,ustggtn,unwlsuhtnqnfahuotghcufqh
hat  khukrkgwhc,unwlsufqufc kilutouitqikqlaflkhufllkqlwtq;ufqhufcusk
lttvudwxtatecuhafncufluswcu w k,uwluckkpkhultuaklakflufqhufhdfqikuteluto
lskuqwxsluwqulskuakxegfauogwivkautoulwqruogfpkmuLskupflisunkqlutelm

“Fyceah!”uskuiawkhmu“LswcuwculskuntaclutoularwqxultulkggmmmmuSkak
rteufggufak,ukfisupttakhunwlsulntuxtthufhhakcckc,ugwvkufusegvunwls
lntufqistac,ufuyeliskauateqhutqkuitaqka,ufu tgwikpfquateqhufqtlska,
kbikggkqluf  klwlkc,ufqhulkp kafleakuqtapfg--rteuskfa--qtapfguoatp
rkfa'cukqhulturkfa'cukqhmuFqhurteucfr,uFyceah!uFyceahuyk--kb gthkh!
Fyceah!uPruhkfauytrc,unsfluifqurteukb kiluoatpufupfqunstutelutoucskka
qkadtecqkccusfhu.ecluogeqxutdkaytfahufu fwautouqknucstkc!uQtnuWulswqvuto
wl,uwluwcufpfjwqxuWuhwhuqtlucskhulkfacmuWufp,ue tqulskunstgk,u ateh
toupruotalwlehkmuWunfcuielultulskuzewivuflulskuwhkfutousfdwqxugtclulsk
wqkclwpfygku awdwgkxkutougwclkqwqxultulskuxwolkhuVealjmuTouiteackuW
nfcunatqxmuLsku awdwgkxkunfcunfwlwqxuotaupkmuTs,urkc,uWuskfahuptakulsfq
kqtexsmuFqhuWunfcuawxsl,ulttmuFudtwikmuSkunfcudkarugwllgkuptakulsfquf
dtwikmuFqhuWuskfah--swp--wl--lswcudtwik--tlskaudtwikc--fggutoulskpunkak
ctugwllgkuptakulsfqudtwikc--fqhulskupkptarutoulsflulwpkuwlckgougwqxkac
fateqhupk,uwp fg fygk,ugwvkufuhrwqxudwyaflwtqutoutqkuwppkqcku.fyyka,
cwggr,uflatiwtec,uctahwh,ucfdfxk,utaucwp grupkfq,unwlstelufqruvwqhuto
ckqckmuDtwikc,udtwikc--kdkqulskuxwaguskackgo--qtn--”

Skunfcucwgkqluotaufugtqxulwpkm

“Wugfwhulskuxstclutouswcuxwolcuflugfclunwlsufugwk,”uskuykxfq,ucehhkqgrm
“Xwag!uNsfl?uHwhuWupkqlwtqufuxwag?uTs,ucskuwcutelutouwl--itp gklkgrm
Lskr--lskuntpkq,uWupkfq--fakutelutouwl--csteghuykutelutouwlmuNkupecl
skg ulskpultuclfruwqulsfluykfelwoeguntaghutoulskwautnq,ugkcluteac
xklcuntackmuTs,ucskusfhultuykutelutouwlmuRteucsteghusfdkuskfahulsk
hwcwqlkaakhuythrutouPamuVealjucfrwqx,u'PruWqlkqhkhm'uRteunteghusfdk
 kaikwdkhuhwakilgrulskqustnuitp gklkgrucskunfcutelutouwlmuFqhulskugtolr
oatqlfguytqkutouPamuVealj!uLskrucfrulskusfwauxtkcutquxatnwqxuctpklwpkc,
yelulswc--fs--c kiwpkq,unfcuwp akccwdkgruyfghmuLskunwghkaqkccusfh
 fllkhuswputqulskuskfh,ufqh,uykstgh,uwlunfcugwvkufuyfgg--fquwdtaruyfgg;
wlusfhuifakcckhuswp,ufqh--gt!--skusfhunwlskakh;uwlusfhulfvkquswp,ugtdkh
swp,ukpyafikhuswp,uxtluwqltuswcudkwqc,uitqcepkhuswcuogkcs,ufqhuckfgkh
swcuctegultuwlcutnquyrulskuwqitqikwdfygkuikakptqwkcutouctpkuhkdwgwcs
wqwlwflwtqmuSkunfcuwlcuc twgkhufqhu fp kakhuofdteawlkmuWdtar?uWucstegh
lswqvuctmuSkf cutouwl,uclfivcutouwlmuLskutghupehucsfqlrunfcuyeaclwqx
nwlsuwlmuRteunteghulswqvulskakunfcuqtlufucwqxgkulecvugkolukwlskaufytdk
tauykgtnulskuxateqhuwqulskunstgkuiteqlarmu'Ptclgruotccwg,'ulskupfqfxka
sfhuakpfavkh,uhwc fafxwqxgrmuWlunfcuqtuptakuotccwgulsfquWufp;uyelulskr
ifgguwluotccwgunskquwluwcuhexue muWluf  kfaculskckuqwxxkacuhtuyearulsk
lecvcuctpklwpkc--yelukdwhkqlgrulskruiteghq'luyearulswcu faikguhkk 
kqtexsultucfdkulskuxwolkhuPamuVealjuoatpuswcuoflkmuNkuowggkhulsk
clkfpytflunwlsuwl,ufqhusfhultu wgkufugtlutqulskuhkivmuLsecuskuitegh
ckkufqhukq.trufcugtqxufcuskuiteghuckk,uykifeckulskuf  akiwflwtqutoulswc
ofdteausfhuakpfwqkhunwlsuswpultulskugfclmuRteucsteghusfdkuskfahuswpucfr,
'Pruwdtarm'uTs,urkc,uWuskfahuswpmu'PruWqlkqhkh,upruwdtar,upruclflwtq,
pruawdka,upr--'ukdkarlswqxuykgtqxkhultuswpmuWlupfhkupkustghupruyakfls
wqukb kilflwtqutouskfawqxulskunwghkaqkccuyeacluwqltufu athwxwtecu kfg
tougfexslkaulsflunteghucsfvkulskuowbkhuclfacuwqulskwau gfikcmuKdkarlswqx
ykgtqxkhultuswp--yelulsflunfcufulawogkmuLskulswqxunfcultuvqtnunsflusk
ykgtqxkhult,ustnupfqru tnkacutouhfavqkccuigfwpkhuswpuotaulskwautnqmuLsfl
nfculskuakogkilwtqulsflupfhkurteuiakk rufggutdkamuWlunfcuwp tccwygk--wl
nfcuqtluxtthuotautqkukwlska--larwqxultuwpfxwqkmuSkusfhulfvkqufuswxsuckfl
fptqxclulskuhkdwgcutoulskugfqh--WupkfqugwlkafggrmuRteuifq'lueqhkaclfqhm
Stnuiteghurte?--nwlsuctgwhu fdkpkqlueqhkaurteauokkl,uceaateqhkhuyruvwqh
qkwxsyteacuakfhrultuiskkaurteutaultuofggutqurte,uclk  wqxuhkgwiflkgr
yklnkkqulskuyeliskaufqhulsku tgwikpfq,uwqulskustgrulkaatautoucifqhfgufqh
xfggtncufqhugeqflwiufcrgepc--stnuifqurteuwpfxwqkunsflu falwiegfauakxwtq
toulskuowaclufxkcufupfq'cueqlafppkggkhuokklupfrulfvkuswpuwqltuyrulsk
nfrutouctgwlehk--ellkauctgwlehkunwlstelufu tgwikpfq--yrulskunfruto
cwgkqik--ellkaucwgkqik,unskakuqtunfaqwqxudtwikutoufuvwqhuqkwxsyteauifq
ykuskfahunswc kawqxutou eygwiut wqwtq?uLskckugwllgkulswqxcupfvkufggulsk
xakfluhwookakqikmuNskqulskrufakuxtqkurteupecluofgguyfivue tqurteautnq
wqqflkuclakqxls,ue tqurteautnquif fiwlruotauofwlsoegqkccmuTouiteackurte
pfruykulttupeisutoufuottgultuxtunatqx--lttuheggukdkqultuvqtnurteufak
ykwqxufccfeglkhuyrulsku tnkacutouhfavqkccmuWulfvkuwl,uqtuottgukdkaupfhk
fuyfaxfwquotauswcuctegunwlsulskuhkdwg;ulskuottguwculttupeisutoufuottg,
taulskuhkdwgulttupeisutoufuhkdwg--Wuhtq'luvqtnunswismuTaurteupfruykuceis
fulseqhkawqxgrukbfglkhuiakfleakufcultuykufgltxklskauhkfoufqhuygwqhult
fqrlswqxuyeluskfdkqgrucwxslcufqhucteqhcmuLskqulskukfalsuotaurteuwcutqgr
fuclfqhwqxu gfik--fqhunsklskaultuykugwvkulswcuwcurteaugtccutaurteauxfwq
Wuntq'lu aklkqhultucfrmuYeluptclutouecufakuqkwlskautqkuqtaulskutlskam
Lskukfalsuotauecuwcufu gfikultugwdkuwq,unskakunkupeclu elue unwls
cwxslc,unwlsucteqhc,unwlsucpkggc,ultt,uyru.tdk!--yakflskuhkfhusw  t,
ctultuc kfv,ufqhuqtluykuitqlfpwqflkhmuFqhulskak,uhtq'lurteuckk?
Rteauclakqxlsuitpkcuwq,ulskuofwlsuwqurteaufywgwlruotaulskuhwxxwqxuto
eqtclkqlflwtecustgkcultuyearulskucleoouwq--rteau tnkautouhkdtlwtq,
qtlulturteackgo,uyelultufqutycieak,uyfiv-yakfvwqxuyecwqkccmuFqhulsfl'c
hwoowieglukqtexsmuPwqh,uWufpuqtlularwqxultukbieckutaukdkqukb gfwq--Wufp
larwqxultufiiteqlultuprckgouota--ota--PamuVealj--otaulskucsfhkutouPam
VealjmuLswcuwqwlwflkhunafwlsuoatpulskuyfivutouQtnskakustqteakhupkunwls
wlcufpfjwqxuitqowhkqikuykotakuwludfqwcskhufgltxklskamuLswcunfcuykifeck
wluiteghuc kfvuKqxgwcsultupkmuLskutawxwqfguVealjusfhuykkqukheiflkh
 falgruwquKqxgfqh,ufqh--fcuskunfcuxtthukqtexsultucfruswpckgo--swc
crp flswkcunkakuwqulskuawxslu gfikmuSwcuptlskaunfcusfgo-Kqxgwcs,uswc
oflskaunfcusfgo-OakqismuFgguKeat kuitqlawyelkhultulskupfvwqxutouVealj;
fqhuyrufqhuyruWugkfaqkhulsfl,uptcluf  at awflkgr,ulskuWqlkaqflwtqfg
CtiwklruotaulskuCe  akccwtqutouCfdfxkuIecltpcusfhuwqlaeclkhuswpunwlsulsk
pfvwqxutoufuak tal,uotauwlcuoeleakuxewhfqikmuFqhuskusfhunawllkquwl,ulttm
W'dkuckkquwlmuW'dkuakfhuwlmuWlunfcukgtzekql,udwyaflwqxunwlsukgtzekqik,
yelulttuswxs-claeqx,uWulswqvmuCkdkqlkkqu fxkcutouigtckunawlwqxuskusfh
oteqhulwpkuota!uYelulswcupeclusfdkuykkquykotakuswc--gkluecucfr--qkadkc,
nkqlunatqx,ufqhuifeckhuswpultu akcwhkufluikalfwqupwhqwxsluhfqikcukqhwqx
nwlsueqc kfvfygkuawlkc,unswis--fcuofaufcuWuakgeilfqlgruxflskakh
oatpunsfluWuskfahufludfawteculwpkc--nkakutookakhue ultuswp--hturte
eqhkaclfqh?--ltuPamuVealjuswpckgomuYeluwlunfcufuykfelwoegu wkik
tounawlwqxmuLskut kqwqxu fafxaf s,ustnkdka,uwqulskugwxslutougflka
wqotapflwtq,uclawvkcupkuqtnufcutpwqtecmuSkuykxfqunwlsulskufaxepkql
lsflunkunswlkc,uoatpulsku twqlutouhkdkgt pkqlunkusfhufaawdkhufl,u'pecl
qkikccfawgruf  kfaultulskpu[cfdfxkc]uwqulskuqfleakutouce kaqfleafg
ykwqxc--nkuf  atfisulskpunwlsulskupwxslutoufuhkwlr,'ufqhuctutq,ufqhuct
tqmu'Yrulskucwp gkukbkaiwckutouteaunwggunkuifqukbkalufu tnkauotauxtth
 afilwifggrueqyteqhkh,'uklim,uklimuOatpulsflu twqluskuctfakhufqhulttvupk
nwlsuswpmuLsku kataflwtqunfcupfxqwowikql,ulstexsuhwoowieglultuakpkpyka,
rteuvqtnmuWluxfdkupkulskuqtlwtqutoufqukbtlwiuWppkqcwlruaegkhuyrufq
fexecluYkqkdtgkqikmuWlupfhkupkulwqxgkunwlsukqlsecwfcpmuLswcunfculsk
eqyteqhkhu tnkautoukgtzekqik--tountahc--touyeaqwqxuqtygkuntahcmuLskak
nkakuqtu afilwifguswqlcultuwqlkaae lulskupfxwiuieaakqlutou safckc,
eqgkccufuvwqhutouqtlkuflulskuottlutoulskugfclu fxk,uciafngkhukdwhkqlgr
peisugflka,uwqufqueqclkfhrusfqh,upfruykuakxfahkhufculskukb tcwlwtquto
fupklsthmuWlunfcudkarucwp gk,ufqhuflulskukqhutoulsfluptdwqxuf  kfgult
kdkarufglaewclwiuckqlwpkqluwluygfjkhuflurte,ugepwqtecufqhulkaaworwqx,
gwvkufuogfcsutougwxslqwqxuwqufuckakqkucvr:u'Kblkapwqflkufggulskuyaelkc!'
Lskuieawtecu falunfculsfluskusfhuf  fakqlgruotaxtllkqufggufytelulsfl
dfgefygku tclciaw lep,uykifeck,ugflkautq,unskquskuwqufuckqckuifpkult
swpckgo,uskuak kflkhgrukqlakflkhupkultulfvkuxtthuifakutou'pru fp sgkl'
(skuifggkhuwl),ufcuwlunfcuceakultusfdkuwqulskuoeleakufuxtthuwqogekqik
e tquswcuifakkamuWusfhuoegguwqotapflwtqufytelufggulskckulswqxc,ufqh,
ykcwhkc,ufcuwluleaqkhutel,uWunfcultusfdkulskuifakutouswcupkptarmuW'dk
htqkukqtexsuotauwlultuxwdkupkulskuwqhwc elfygkuawxslultugfruwl,uwouW
isttck,uotaufqukdkagfclwqxuakcluwqulskuhecl-ywqutou atxakcc,ufptqxcl
fggulskucnkk wqxcufqh,uowxeaflwdkgruc kfvwqx,ufggulskuhkfhuiflcuto
iwdwgwjflwtqmuYelulskq,urteuckk,uWuifq'luisttckmuSkuntq'luykuotaxtllkqm
Nsflkdkauskunfc,uskunfcuqtluitpptqmuSkusfhulsku tnkaultuisfaputa
oawxslkquaehwpkqlfaructegcuwqltufqufxxafdflkhunwlis-hfqikuwquswc
stqtea;uskuiteghufgctuowggulskucpfgguctegcutoulsku wgxawpcunwlsuywllka
pwcxwdwqxc:uskusfhutqkuhkdtlkhuoawkqhuflugkfcl,ufqhuskusfhuitqzekakh
tqkucteguwqulskuntaghulsflunfcuqkwlskauaehwpkqlfaruqtaulfwqlkhunwls
ckgo-ckkvwqxmuQt;uWuifq'luotaxkluswp,ulstexsuWufpuqtlu ak fakhultufoowap
lskuokggtnunfcukbfilgruntalsulskugwokunkugtcluwquxkllwqxultuswpmuW
pwcckhuprugflkuskgpcpfqufnoeggr--Wupwcckhuswpukdkqunswgkuswcuythr
nfcuclwggugrwqxuwqulsku wgtl-steckmu kasf curteunwggulswqvuwlu fccwqx
clafqxkulswcuakxakluotaufucfdfxkunstunfcuqtuptakufiiteqlulsfqufuxafwquto
cfqhuwqufuygfivuCfsfafmuNkgg,uhtq'lurteuckk,uskusfhuhtqkuctpklswqx,usk
sfhuclkkakh;uotauptqlscuWusfhuswpuflupruyfiv--fuskg --fquwqclaepkqlmuWl
nfcufuvwqhutou falqkacsw muSkuclkkakhuotaupk--Wusfhultugttvufolkauswp,uW
ntaawkhufyteluswcuhkowiwkqiwkc,ufqhulsecufuceylgkuytqhusfhuykkquiakflkh,
tounswisuWutqgruykifpkufnfakunskquwlunfcucehhkqgruyatvkqmuFqhulsk
wqlwpflku atoeqhwlrutoulsflugttvuskuxfdkupkunskquskuakikwdkhuswcuseal
akpfwqcultulswcuhfruwquprupkptar--gwvkufuigfwputouhwclfqluvwqcsw 
foowapkhuwqufuce akpkuptpkqlm

“ ttauottg!uWouskusfhutqgrugkolulsflucsellkaufgtqkmuSkusfhuqtuakclafwql,
qtuakclafwql--.eclugwvkuVealj--fulakkucnfrkhuyrulskunwqhmuFcucttqufc
Wusfhu elutqufuharu fwautoucgw  kac,uWuhafxxkhuswputel,ufolkauowacl
.kavwqxulskuc kfautelutouswcucwhk,unswisut kaflwtquWuitqokccuWu kaotapkh
nwlsuprukrkcucselulwxslmuSwcuskkgcugkf khultxklskautdkaulskugwllgk
httaclk ;uswcucsteghkacunkaku akcckhultupruyakfcl;uWusexxkhuswpuoatp
ykswqhuhkc kaflkgrmuTs!uskunfcuskfdr,uskfdr;uskfdwkaulsfqufqrupfqutq
kfals,uWucsteghuwpfxwqkmuLskqunwlsteluptakufhtuWulw  khuswputdkaytfahm
Lskuieaakqlucqfliskhuswpufculstexsuskusfhuykkqufunwc utouxafcc,ufqhuW
cfnulskuythruatggutdkaulnwikuykotakuWugtclucwxslutouwluotaukdkamuFggulsk
 wgxawpcufqhulskupfqfxkaunkakulskquitqxakxflkhutqulskufnqwqx-hkiv
fytelulsku wgtl-steck,uisfllkawqxuflukfisutlskaugwvkufuogtivutoukbiwlkh
pfx wkc,ufqhulskakunfcufucifqhfgwjkhupeapeauflupruskfalgkccu atp lwlehkm
Nsflulskrunfqlkhultuvkk ulsfluythrusfqxwqxufyteluotauWuifq'luxekccm
Kpyfgpuwl,upfrykmuYeluWusfhufgctuskfahufqtlska,ufqhufudkarutpwqtec,
peapeautqulskuhkivuykgtnmuPruoawkqhculskuntth-iellkacunkakugwvknwck
cifqhfgwjkh,ufqhunwlsufuykllkaucstnutouakfctq--lstexsuWufhpwlulsflulsk
akfctquwlckgounfcuzewlkuwqfhpwccwygkmuTs,uzewlk!uWusfhupfhkue uprupwqh
lsfluwouprugflkuskgpcpfqunfcultuykukflkq,ulskuowcskcufgtqkucsteghusfdk
swpmuSkusfhuykkqufudkaruckitqh-aflkuskgpcpfqunswgkufgwdk,uyeluqtnuskunfc
hkfhuskupwxslusfdkuykitpkufuowacl-igfcculkp lflwtq,ufqhu tccwygruifeck
ctpkuclfalgwqxulateygkmuYkcwhkc,uWunfcufqbwtecultulfvkulskunskkg,ulsk
pfquwqu wqvu r.fpfcucstnwqxuswpckgoufust kgkccuheookauflulskuyecwqkccm

“LswcuWuhwhuhwakilgrulskucwp gkuoeqkafgunfcutdkamuNkunkakuxtwqx
sfgo-c kkh,uvkk wqxuawxsluwqulskupwhhgkutoulskuclakfp,ufqhuWugwclkqkh
ltulskulfgvufytelupkmuLskrusfhuxwdkque uVealj,ulskrusfhuxwdkque ulsk
clflwtq;uVealjunfcuhkfh,ufqhulskuclflwtqusfhuykkquyeaql--fqhuctutq--fqh
ctutqmuLskuakh-sfwakhu wgxawpunfcuykcwhkuswpckgounwlsulskulstexslulsfl
flugkfclulswcu ttauVealjusfhuykkqu at kagrufdkqxkhmu'Cfr!uNkupeclusfdk
pfhkufuxgtawtecucgfexslkautoulskpuwqulskuyecsmuKs?uNsfluhturteulswqv?
Cfr?'uSku tcwlwdkgruhfqikh,ulskuygtthlswaclrugwllgkuxwqxkaruykxxfam
Fqhuskusfhuqkfagruofwqlkhunskquskucfnulskunteqhkhupfq!uWuiteghuqtluskg 
cfrwqx,u'Rteupfhkufuxgtawtecugtlutoucptvk,ufqrstnm'uWusfhuckkq,uoatpulsk
nfrulskult cutoulskuyecskcuaeclgkhufqhuogkn,ulsflufgptclufggulskucstlc
sfhuxtqkulttuswxsmuRteuifq'luswlufqrlswqxueqgkccurteulfvkufwpufqhuowak
oatpulskucsteghka;uyelulskckuisf cuowakhuoatpulskusw unwlsulskwaukrkc
cselmuLskuaklakfl,uWupfwqlfwqkh--fqhuWunfcuawxsl--nfcuifeckhuyrulsk
ciakkiswqxutoulskuclkfpunswclgkmuE tqulswculskruotaxtluVealj,ufqhuykxfq
ltustnguflupkunwlsuwqhwxqfqlu atlkclcm

“Lskupfqfxkaucltthuyrulskunskkgupeapeawqxuitqowhkqlwfggrufytelulsk
qkikccwlrutouxkllwqxunkggufnfruhtnqulskuawdkauykotakuhfavuflufggukdkqlc,
nskquWucfnuwqulskuhwclfqikufuigkfawqxutqulskuawdkacwhkufqhulskutelgwqkc
touctpkuctalutouyewghwqxmu'Nsfl'culswc?'uWufcvkhmuSkuigf  khuswcusfqhc
wquntqhkamu'Lskuclflwtq!'uskuiawkhmuWukhxkhuwquflutqik,uclwgguxtwqx
sfgo-c kkhm

“LsatexsupruxgfcckcuWucfnulskucgt kutoufuswgguwqlkac kackhunwlsuafak
lakkcufqhu kaokilgruoakkuoatpueqhkaxatnlsmuFugtqxuhkifrwqxuyewghwqxutq
lskuceppwlunfcusfgouyeawkhuwqulskuswxsuxafcc;ulskugfaxkustgkcuwqulsk
 kfvkhuattouxf khuygfivuoatpufofa;ulsku.eqxgkufqhulskuntthcupfhkuf
yfivxateqhmuLskakunfcuqtukqigtceakutauokqikutoufqruvwqh;uyelulskakusfh
ykkqutqkuf  fakqlgr,uotauqkfaulskusteckusfgo-f-htjkqucgwpu tclcuakpfwqkh
wqufuatn,uatexsgrulawppkh,ufqhunwlsulskwaue  kaukqhcutaqfpkqlkhunwls
ateqhuifadkhuyfggcmuLskuafwgc,utaunsflkdkaulskakusfhuykkquyklnkkq,usfh
hwcf  kfakhmuTouiteackulskuotakcluceaateqhkhufggulsflmuLskuawdka-yfqv
nfcuigkfa,ufqhutqulskunflkacwhkuWucfnufunswlkupfqueqhkaufusflugwvkuf
ifal-nskkguykivtqwqxu kacwclkqlgrunwlsuswcunstgkufapmuKbfpwqwqxulsk
khxkutoulskuotakclufytdkufqhuykgtn,uWunfcufgptcluikalfwquWuiteghuckk
ptdkpkqlc--sepfquotapcuxgwhwqxuskakufqhulskakmuWuclkfpkhu fclu aehkqlgr,
lskquclt  khulskukqxwqkcufqhugkluskauhawoluhtnqmuLskupfqutqulskucstak
ykxfqultucstel,ueaxwqxuecultugfqhmu'Nkusfdkuykkqufllfivkh,'uciakfpkh
lskupfqfxkamu'Wuvqtn--WuvqtnmuWl'cufgguawxsl,'urkggkhuyfivulskutlska,ufc
iskkaoegufcurteu gkfckmu'ItpkufgtqxmuWl'cufgguawxslmuWufpuxgfhm'

“Swcufc kiluakpwqhkhupkutouctpklswqxuWusfhuckkq--ctpklswqxuoeqqruWusfh
ckkquctpknskakmuFcuWupfqtkedakhultuxklufgtqxcwhk,uWunfcufcvwqxuprckgo,
'Nsfluhtkculswcuokggtnugttvugwvk?'uCehhkqgruWuxtluwlmuSkugttvkhugwvk
fusfagkzewqmuSwcuigtlskcusfhuykkqupfhkutouctpkucleooulsflunfcuyatnq
stggfqhu atyfygr,uyeluwlunfcuitdkakhunwlsu fliskcufggutdka,unwlsuyawxsl
 fliskc,uygek,uakh,ufqhurkggtn-- fliskcutqulskuyfiv,u fliskcutqulsk
oatql,u fliskcutqukgytnc,utquvqkkc;uitgteakhuywqhwqxufateqhuswcu.fivkl,
cifagklukhxwqxuflulskuytlltputouswculateckac;ufqhulskuceqcswqkupfhkuswp
gttvukblakpkgruxfrufqhuntqhkaoeggruqkflunwlsfg,uykifeckurteuiteghuckk
stnuykfelwoeggrufggulswcu fliswqxusfhuykkquhtqkmuFuykfahgkcc,uytrwcs
ofik,udkaruofwa,uqtuokfleakcultuc kfvuto,uqtcku kkgwqx,ugwllgkuygek
krkc,ucpwgkcufqhuoatnqcuisfcwqxukfisutlskautdkaulsflut kquiteqlkqfqik
gwvkuceqcswqkufqhucsfhtnutqufunwqh-cnk lu gfwqmu'Gttvutel,uif lfwq!'usk
iawkh;u'lskak'cufucqfxugthxkhuwquskakugfcluqwxslm'uNsfl!uFqtlskaucqfx?uW
itqokccuWucntakucsfpkoeggrmuWusfhuqkfagrustgkhupruiaw  gk,ultuowqwcsutoo
lsfluisfapwqxulaw muLskusfagkzewqutqulskuyfqvuleaqkhuswcugwllgku ex-qtck
e ultupkmu'RteuKqxgwcs?'uskufcvkh,ufggucpwgkcmu'Fakurte?'uWucstelkhuoatp
lskunskkgmuLskucpwgkcudfqwcskh,ufqhuskucsttvuswcuskfhufcuwouctaaruota
pruhwcf  twqlpkqlmuLskquskuyawxslkqkhue mu'Qkdkaupwqh!'uskuiawkh
kqiteafxwqxgrmu'Fakunkuwqulwpk?'uWufcvkhmu'Skuwcue ulskak,'uskuak gwkh,
nwlsufultccutoulskuskfhue ulskuswgg,ufqhuykitpwqxuxgttprufggutouf
cehhkqmuSwcuofikunfcugwvkulskufelepqucvr,utdkaifclutqkuptpkqlufqhuyawxsl
lskuqkblm

“Nskqulskupfqfxka,ukcitalkhuyrulsku wgxawpc,ufggutoulskpufapkhultulsk
lkkls,usfhuxtqkultulskusteckulswcuisf uifpkutquytfahmu'Wucfr,uWuhtq'l
gwvkulswcmuLskckuqflwdkcufakuwqulskuyecs,'uWucfwhmuSkufcceakhupk
kfaqkclgruwlunfcufgguawxslmu'Lskrufakucwp gku kt gk,'uskufhhkh;u'nkgg,
WufpuxgfhurteuifpkmuWlulttvupkufgguprulwpkultuvkk ulskputoom'u'Yelurte
cfwhuwlunfcufgguawxsl,'uWuiawkhmu'Ts,ulskrupkfqluqtusfap,'uskucfwh;ufqh
fcuWuclfakhuskuitaakilkhuswpckgo,u'Qtlukbfilgrm'uLskqudwdfiwtecgr,u'Pr
ofwls,urteau wgtl-steckunfqlcufuigkfq-e !'uWqulskuqkbluyakflsuskufhdwckh
pkultuvkk ukqtexsuclkfputqulskuytwgkaultuygtnulskunswclgkuwquifckutoufqr
lateygkmu'Tqkuxtthuciakkisunwgguhtuptakuotaurteulsfqufggurteauawogkcm
Lskrufakucwp gku kt gk,'uskuak kflkhmuSkuafllgkhufnfrufluceisufuaflk
skuzewlkutdkanskgpkhupkmuSkuckkpkhultuykularwqxultupfvkue uotaugtlcuto
cwgkqik,ufqhufilefggruswqlkh,ugfexswqx,ulsfluceisunfculskuifckmu'Htq'l
rteulfgvunwlsuPamuVealj?'uWucfwhmu'Rteuhtq'lulfgvunwlsulsflupfq--rte
gwclkqultuswp,'uskukbigfwpkhunwlsuckdkakukbfglflwtqmu'Yeluqtn--'uSk
nfdkhuswcufap,ufqhuwqulskulnwqvgwqxutoufqukrkunfcuwqulskuellkaptcl
hk lscutouhkc tqhkqirmuWqufuptpkqluskuifpkue ufxfwqunwlsufu.ep ,
 tcckcckhuswpckgoutouytlsuprusfqhc,ucsttvulskpuitqlwqetecgr,unswgkusk
xfyygkh:u'Yatlskaucfwgtammmustqteammmu gkfceakmmmuhkgwxslmmm
wqlatheikuprckgommmuAeccwfqmmmuctqutoufqufais- awkclmmm
XtdkaqpkqlutouLfpytdmmmuNsfl?uLtyfiit!uKqxgwcsultyfiit;ulskukbikggkql
Kqxgwcsultyfiit!uQtn,ulsfl'cuyatlskagrmuCptvk?uNskak'cufucfwgtaulsfl
htkcuqtlucptvk?”

“Lsku w kucttlskhuswp,ufqhuxafhefggruWupfhkuteluskusfhuaequfnfruoatp
cisttg,usfhuxtqkultuckfuwqufuAeccwfqucsw ;uafqufnfrufxfwq;uckadkhuctpk
lwpkuwquKqxgwcsucsw c;unfcuqtnuakitqiwgkhunwlsulskufais- awkclmuSkupfhk
fu twqlutoulsflmu'Yelunskqutqkuwcurteqxutqkupecluckkulswqxc,uxflska
kb kawkqik,uwhkfc;ukqgfaxkulskupwqhm'u'Skak!'uWuwqlkaae lkhmu'Rte
ifquqkdkaulkgg!uSkakuWupkluPamuVealj,'uskucfwh,urtelsoeggructgkpqufqh
ak atfisoegmuWuskghuprultqxekufolkaulsflmuWluf  kfacuskusfhu kacefhkhuf
Helisulafhwqx-steckutqulskuitfclultuowluswputelunwlsucltakcufqhuxtthc,
fqhusfhuclfalkhuotaulskuwqlkawtaunwlsufugwxsluskfalufqhuqtuptakuwhkfuto
nsflunteghusf  kqultuswpulsfqufuyfyrmuSkusfhuykkqunfqhkawqxufytelulsfl
awdkauotauqkfagrulnturkfacufgtqk,uielutoouoatpukdkarythrufqhukdkarlswqxm
'WufpuqtlucturteqxufcuWugttvmuWufpulnkqlr-owdk,'uskucfwhmu'Fluowaclutgh
DfquCserlkqunteghulkggupkultuxtultulskuhkdwg,'uskuqfaaflkhunwlsuvkkq
kq.trpkql;u'yeluWucleivultuswp,ufqhulfgvkhufqhulfgvkh,ulwgguflugfclusk
xtlufoafwhuWunteghulfgvulskuswqh-gkxutoouswcuofdteawlkuhtx,uctuskuxfdk
pkuctpkuiskf ulswqxcufqhufuoknuxeqc,ufqhultghupkuskust khuskunteghuqkdka
ckkupruofikufxfwqmuXtthutghuHelispfq,uDfquCserlkqmuW'dkuckqluswputqk
cpfggugtlutouwdtarufurkfaufxt,uctulsfluskuifq'luifggupkufugwllgkulswko
nskquWuxkluyfivmuWust kuskuxtluwlmuFqhuotaulskuakcluWuhtq'luifakmuWusfh
ctpkuntthuclfivkhuotaurtemuLsflunfcuprutghusteckmuHwhurteuckk?'

“WuxfdkuswpuLtnctq'cuyttvmuSkupfhkufculstexsuskunteghuvwccupk,uyel
akclafwqkhuswpckgomu'LskutqgruyttvuWusfhugkol,ufqhuWulstexsluWusfhugtcl
wl,'uskucfwh,ugttvwqxufluwlukiclflwifggrmu'Ctupfqrufiiwhkqlcusf  kqult
fupfquxtwqxufytelufgtqk,urteuvqtnmuIfqtkcuxklue ckluctpklwpkc--fqh
ctpklwpkcurte'dkuxtlultuigkfauteluctuzewivunskqulsku kt gkuxklufqxarm'
Skulsepykhulsku fxkcmu'RteupfhkuqtlkcuwquAeccwfq?'uWufcvkhmuSkuqthhkhm
'Wulstexslulskrunkakunawllkquwquiw ska,'uWucfwhmuSkugfexskh,ulskquykifpk
ckawtecmu'Wusfhugtlcutoulateygkultuvkk ulskcku kt gkutoo,'uskucfwhm
'Hwhulskrunfqlultuvwggurte?'uWufcvkhmu'Ts,uqt!'uskuiawkh,ufqhuiskivkh
swpckgomu'Nsruhwhulskrufllfivuec?'uWu eacekhmuSkuskcwlflkh,ulskq
cfwhucsfpkofikhgr,u'Lskruhtq'lunfqluswpultuxtm'u'Htq'lulskr?'uWucfwh
ieawtecgrmuSkuqthhkhufuqthuoeggutouprclkarufqhunwchtpmu'Wulkggurte,'usk
iawkh,u'lswcupfqusfcukqgfaxkhuprupwqhm'uSkut kqkhuswcufapcunwhk,uclfawqx
flupkunwlsuswcugwllgkuygekukrkculsflunkaku kaokilgruateqhm”




WWW



“Wugttvkhufluswp,ugtcluwqufcltqwcspkqlmuLskakuskunfcuykotakupk,uwq
ptlgkr,ufculstexsuskusfhufycitqhkhuoatpufulate kutoupwpkc,ukqlsecwfclwi,
ofyegtecmuSwcudkarukbwclkqikunfcuwp atyfygk,uwqkb gwifygk,ufqh
fgltxklskauyknwghkawqxmuSkunfcufquwqctgeygku atygkpmuWlunfc
wqitqikwdfygkustnuskusfhukbwclkh,ustnuskusfhuceiikkhkhuwquxkllwqxuct
ofa,ustnuskusfhupfqfxkhultuakpfwq--nsruskuhwhuqtluwqclfqlgruhwcf  kfam
'Wunkqlufugwllgkuofalska,'uskucfwh,u'lskquclwggufugwllgkuofalska--lwgg
WusfhuxtqkuctuofaulsfluWuhtq'luvqtnustnuW'ggukdkauxkluyfivmuQkdkaupwqhm
 gkqlrulwpkmuWuifqupfqfxkmuRteulfvkuVealjufnfruzewiv--zewiv--Wulkgg
rtem'uLskuxgfpteautourtelsukqdkgt khuswcu falw-itgteakhuafxc,uswc
hkclwlelwtq,uswcugtqkgwqkcc,ulskukcckqlwfguhkctgflwtqutouswcuoelwgk
nfqhkawqxcmuOtauptqlsc--otaurkfac--swcugwokusfhq'luykkquntalsufuhfr'c
 eaisfck;ufqhulskakuskunfcuxfggfqlgr,ulstexslgkccgrufgwdk,ultufgg
f  kfafqikcuwqhkclaeilwygkuctgkgruyrulskudwalekutouswcuoknurkfacufqh
touswcueqakogkilwqxufehfiwlrmuWunfcuckheikhuwqltuctpklswqxugwvk
fhpwaflwtq--gwvkukqdrmuXgfpteaueaxkhuswputq,uxgfpteauvk luswp
eqciflskhmuSkuceakgrunfqlkhuqtlswqxuoatpulskunwghkaqkccuyeluc fikult
yakflskuwqufqhultu ecsutqulsatexsmuSwcuqkkhunfcultukbwcl,ufqhultuptdk
tqnfahcuflulskuxakflkclu tccwygkuawcv,ufqhunwlsufupfbwpeputou awdflwtqm
Woulskufyctgelkgru eak,ueqifgiegflwqx,ueq afilwifguc wawlutoufhdkqleak
sfhukdkauaegkhufusepfquykwqx,uwluaegkhulswcuyk fliskhurtelsmuWufgptcl
kqdwkhuswpulsku tcckccwtqutoulswcupthkclufqhuigkfauogfpkmuWluckkpkhult
sfdkuitqcepkhufggulstexslutouckgouctuitp gklkgr,ulsflukdkqunswgkusk
nfculfgvwqxulturte,urteuotaxtlulsfluwlunfcusk--lskupfquykotakurtea
krkc--nstusfhuxtqkulsatexsulskckulswqxcmuWuhwhuqtlukqdruswpuswcuhkdtlwtq
ltuVealj,ulstexsmuSkusfhuqtlupkhwlflkhutdkauwlmuWluifpkultuswp,ufqh
skufiik lkhuwlunwlsufuctalutoukfxkauoflfgwcpmuWupeclucfrulsflultupkuwl
f  kfakhufytelulskuptcluhfqxkateculswqxuwqukdkarunfruskusfhuitpkue tquct
ofam

“Lskrusfhuitpkultxklskaueqfdtwhfygr,ugwvkulntucsw cuykifgpkhuqkfa
kfisutlska,ufqhugfruaeyywqxucwhkcuflugfclmuWuce  tckuVealjunfqlkhufq
fehwkqik,uykifeckutqufuikalfwqutiifcwtq,unskqukqifp khuwqulskuotakcl,
lskrusfhulfgvkhufgguqwxsl,utauptaku atyfygruVealjusfhulfgvkhmu'Nkulfgvkh
toukdkarlswqx,'uskucfwh,uzewlkulafqc talkhuflulskuakitggkilwtqmu'W
otaxtlulskakunfcuceisufulswqxufcucgkk muLskuqwxsluhwhuqtluckkpultugfcl
fqusteamuKdkarlswqx!uKdkarlswqx!mmmuTougtdk,ulttm'u'Fs,uskulfgvkhult
rteutougtdk!'uWucfwh,upeisufpeckhmu'Wluwcq'lunsflurteulswqv,'uskuiawkh,
fgptclu fccwtqflkgrmu'WlunfcuwquxkqkafgmuSkupfhkupkuckkulswqxc--lswqxcm'

“Skulsaknuswcufapcue muNkunkakutquhkivuflulskulwpk,ufqhulskuskfhpfq
toupruntth-iellkac,ugteqxwqxuqkfauyr,uleaqkhue tquswpuswcuskfdrufqh
xgwllkawqxukrkcmuWugttvkhufateqh,ufqhuWuhtq'luvqtnunsr,uyeluWufcceakurte
lsfluqkdka,uqkdkauykotak,uhwhulswcugfqh,ulswcuawdka,ulswcu.eqxgk,ulsk
dkarufaisutoulswcuygfjwqxucvr,uf  kfaultupkuctust kgkccufqhuctuhfav,uct
wp kqklafygkultusepfqulstexsl,uctu wlwgkccultusepfqunkfvqkccmu'Fqh,ukdka
cwqik,urteusfdkuykkqunwlsuswp,utouiteack?'uWucfwhm

“TqulskuitqlafarmuWluf  kfaculskwauwqlkaiteackusfhuykkqudkarupeisuyatvkq
yrudfawtecuifeckcmuSkusfh,ufcuskuwqotapkhupku atehgr,upfqfxkhultuqeack
Vealjulsatexsulntuwggqkcckcu(skufggehkhultuwlufcurteunteghultuctpkuawcvr
okfl),uyelufcufuaegkuVealjunfqhkakhufgtqk,uofauwqulskuhk lscutoulsk
otakclmu'Dkarutolkquitpwqxultulswcuclflwtq,uWusfhultunfwluhfrcufqh
hfrcuykotakuskunteghuleaque ,'uskucfwhmu'Fs,uwlunfcuntalsunfwlwqx
ota!--ctpklwpkcm'u'Nsflunfcuskuhtwqx?ukb gtawqxutaunsfl?'uWufcvkhmu'Ts,
rkc,utouiteack';uskusfhuhwcitdkakhugtlcutoudwggfxkc,ufugfvk,ultt--sk
hwhuqtluvqtnukbfilgruwqunsfluhwakilwtq;uwlunfcuhfqxkatecultuwqzewak
lttupeis--yeluptclgruswcukb khwlwtqcusfhuykkquotauwdtarmu'Yeluskusfhuqt
xtthcultulafhkunwlsuyrulsflulwpk,'uWuty.kilkhmu'Lskak'cufuxtthugtluto
ifalawhxkcugkolukdkqurkl,'uskufqcnkakh,ugttvwqxufnfrmu'Ltuc kfvu gfwqgr,
skuafwhkhulskuiteqlar,'uWucfwhmuSkuqthhkhmu'Qtlufgtqk,uceakgr!'uSk
pellkakhuctpklswqxufytelulskudwggfxkcuateqhulsflugfvkmu'Vealjuxtlulsk
lawykultuotggtnuswp,uhwhusk?'uWucexxkclkhmuSkuowhxklkhufugwllgkmu'Lskr
fhtakhuswp,'uskucfwhmuLskultqkutoulskckuntahcunfcuctukblaftahwqfarulsfl
WugttvkhufluswpuckfaiswqxgrmuWlunfcuieawtecultuckkuswcupwqxgkhukfxkaqkcc
fqhuakgeilfqikultuc kfvutouVealjmuLskupfquowggkhuswcugwok,utiie wkhuswc
lstexslc,ucnfrkhuswcukptlwtqcmu'Nsfluifqurteukb kil?'uskuyeaclutel;u'sk
ifpkultulskpunwlsulseqhkaufqhugwxslqwqx,urteuvqtn--fqhulskrusfhuqkdka
ckkqufqrlswqxugwvkuwl--fqhudkarulkaawygkmuSkuiteghuykudkarulkaawygkm
Rteuifq'lu.ehxkuPamuVealjufcurteunteghufqutahwqfarupfqmuQt,uqt,uqt!
Qtn--.eclultuxwdkurteufquwhkf--Wuhtq'lupwqhulkggwqxurte,uskunfqlkhult
csttlupk,ultt,utqkuhfr--yeluWuhtq'lu.ehxkuswpm'u'Csttlurte!'uWuiawkh
'Nsfluota?'u'Nkgg,uWusfhufucpfggugtlutouwdtarulskuiswkoutoulsfludwggfxk
qkfauprusteckuxfdkupkmuRteuckkuWueckhultucsttluxfpkuotaulskpmuNkgg,
skunfqlkhuwl,ufqhunteghq'luskfauakfctqmuSkuhkigfakhuskunteghucsttlupk
eqgkccuWuxfdkuswpulskuwdtarufqhulskquigkfakhutelutoulskuiteqlar,uykifeck
skuiteghuhtuct,ufqhusfhufuofqiruotauwl,ufqhulskakunfcuqtlswqxutqukfals
ltu akdkqluswpuvwggwqxunstpusku.tggrunkggu gkfckhmuFqhuwlunfculaek,ulttm
WuxfdkuswpulskuwdtarmuNsfluhwhuWuifak!uYeluWuhwhq'luigkfautelmuQt,uqtmuW
iteghq'lugkfdkuswpmuWusfhultuykuifakoeg,utouiteack,ulwggunkuxtluoawkqhgr
fxfwquotaufulwpkmuSkusfhuswcuckitqhuwggqkcculskqmuFolkanfahcuWusfhult
vkk utelutoulskunfr;uyeluWuhwhq'lupwqhmuSkunfcugwdwqxuotaulskuptclu fal
wqulstckudwggfxkcutqulskugfvkmuNskquskuifpkuhtnqultulskuawdka,uctpklwpkc
skunteghulfvkultupk,ufqhuctpklwpkcuwlunfcuykllkauotaupkultuykuifakoegm
LswcupfquceookakhulttupeismuSkusflkhufggulswc,ufqhuctpkstnuskuiteghq'l
xklufnfrmuNskquWusfhufuisfqikuWuykxxkhuswpultularufqhugkfdkunswgkulskak
nfculwpk;uWutookakhultuxtuyfivunwlsuswpmuFqhuskunteghucfrurkc,ufqhulskq
skunteghuakpfwq;uxtutooutqufqtlskauwdtaruseql;uhwcf  kfauotaunkkvc;
otaxkluswpckgoufptqxclulskcku kt gk--otaxkluswpckgo--rteuvqtnm'u'Nsr!
sk'cupfh,'uWucfwhmuSku atlkclkhuwqhwxqfqlgrmuPamuVealjuiteghq'luykupfhm
WouWusfhuskfahuswpulfgv,utqgrulntuhfrcufxt,uWunteghq'luhfakuswqlufluceis
fulswqxmmmmuWusfhulfvkque upruywqtiegfacunswgkunkulfgvkh,ufqhunfc
gttvwqxuflulskucstak,ucnkk wqxulskugwpwlutoulskuotakcluflukfisucwhkufqh
flulskuyfivutoulskusteckmuLskuitqciwtecqkccutoulskakuykwqxu kt gkuwq
lsfluyecs,uctucwgkql,uctuzewkl--fcucwgkqlufqhuzewklufculskuaewqkhusteck
tqulskuswgg--pfhkupkueqkfcrmuLskakunfcuqtucwxqutqulskuofikutouqfleak
toulswcufpfjwqxulfgkulsflunfcuqtluctupeisultghufcucexxkclkhultupkuwq
hkctgflkukbigfpflwtqc,uitp gklkhuyrucsaexc,uwquwqlkaae lkhu safckc,uwq
swqlcukqhwqxuwquhkk ucwxscmuLskuntthcunkakueqptdkh,ugwvkufupfcv--skfdr,
gwvkulskuigtckhuhttautoufu awctq--lskrugttvkhunwlsulskwaufwautouswhhkq
vqtngkhxk,utou flwkqlukb kilflwtq,utoueqf  atfisfygkucwgkqikmuLsk
Aeccwfqunfcukb gfwqwqxultupkulsfluwlunfcutqgrugflkgrulsfluPamuVealjusfh
itpkuhtnqultulskuawdka,uyawqxwqxufgtqxunwlsuswpufggulskuowxslwqxupkquto
lsflugfvkulawykmuSkusfhuykkqufyckqluotauckdkafguptqlsc--xkllwqxuswpckgo
fhtakh,uWuce  tck--fqhusfhuitpkuhtnqueqkb kilkhgr,unwlsulskuwqlkqlwtq
ltufgguf  kfafqikutoupfvwqxufuafwhukwlskaufiatcculskuawdkautauhtnq
clakfpmuKdwhkqlgrulskuf  klwlkuotauptakuwdtarusfhuxtlulskuykllkauto
lsk--nsflucsfgguWucfr?--gkccupflkawfgufc waflwtqcmuStnkdkauskusfh
xtlupeisuntackucehhkqgrmu'Wuskfahuskunfcugrwqxuskg gkcc,ufqhuctuWuifpk
e --lttvupruisfqik,'ucfwhulskuAeccwfqmu'Ts,uskuwcuyfh,udkaruyfhm'uW
hwakilkhupruxgfccultulskusteckmuLskakunkakuqtucwxqcutougwok,uyelulskak
nfculskuaewqkhuatto,ulskugtqxupehunfggu kk wqxufytdkulskuxafcc,unwls
lsakkugwllgkuczefakunwqhtn-stgkc,uqtulntutoulskucfpkucwjk;ufggulswc
yatexslunwlswquakfisutouprusfqh,ufcuwlunkakmuFqhulskquWupfhkufuyaeczek
ptdkpkql,ufqhutqkutoulskuakpfwqwqxu tclcutoulsfludfqwcskhuokqikugkf kh
e uwqulskuowkghutoupruxgfccmuRteuakpkpykauWultghurteuWusfhuykkquclaeiv
flulskuhwclfqikuyruikalfwqufllkp lcuflutaqfpkqlflwtq,uaflskauakpfavfygk
wqulskuaewqtecufc kilutoulsku gfikmuQtnuWusfhucehhkqgrufuqkfakaudwkn,
fqhuwlcuowacluakceglunfcultupfvkupkulsatnupruskfhuyfivufcuwouykotakuf
ygtnmuLskquWunkqluifakoeggruoatpu tclultu tclunwlsupruxgfcc,ufqhuWucfn
prupwclfvkmuLskckuateqhuvqtycunkakuqtlutaqfpkqlfguyelucrpytgwi;ulskr
nkakukb akccwdkufqhu ejjgwqx,uclawvwqxufqhuhwcleaywqx--otthuotaulstexsl
fqhufgctuotaudegleakcuwoulskakusfhuykkqufqrugttvwqxuhtnquoatpulskucvr;
yeluflufggukdkqlcuotauceisufqlcufcunkakuwqheclawtecukqtexsultufcikqh
lsku tgkmuLskrunteghusfdkuykkqukdkquptakuwp akccwdk,ulstckuskfhcutqulsk
clfvkc,uwoulskwauofikcusfhuqtluykkquleaqkhultulskusteckmuTqgrutqk,ulsk
owacluWusfhupfhkutel,unfcuofiwqxuprunfrmuWunfcuqtluctucstivkhufcurteupfr
lswqvmuLskuclfaluyfivuWusfhuxwdkqunfcuakfggruqtlswqxuyelufuptdkpkql
toucea awckmuWusfhukb kilkhultuckkufuvqtyutountthulskak,urteuvqtnmuW
akleaqkhuhkgwykaflkgrultulskuowacluWusfhuckkq--fqhulskakuwlunfc,uygfiv,
hawkh,uceqvkq,unwlsuigtckhukrkgwhc--fuskfhulsfluckkpkhultucgkk uflulsk
lt utoulsflu tgk,ufqh,unwlsulskucsaeqvkquharugw cucstnwqxufuqfaatn
nswlkugwqkutoulskulkkls,unfcucpwgwqx,ultt,ucpwgwqxuitqlwqetecgrufluctpk
kqhgkccufqhu.titckuhakfputoulsfluklkaqfgucgepykam

“WufpuqtluhwcigtcwqxufqrulafhkuckiaklcmuWquofil,ulskupfqfxkaucfwh
folkanfahculsfluPamuVealj'cupklsthcusfhuaewqkhulskuhwclawilmuWusfdkuqt
t wqwtqutqulsflu twql,uyeluWunfqlurteuigkfagrultueqhkaclfqhulsflulskak
nfcuqtlswqxukbfilgru atowlfygkuwqulskckuskfhcuykwqxulskakmuLskrutqgr
cstnkhulsfluPamuVealjugfivkhuakclafwqluwqulskuxaflwowiflwtqutouswc
dfawtecugeclc,ulsflulskakunfcuctpklswqxunfqlwqxuwquswp--ctpkucpfgg
pfllkaunswis,unskqulsku akccwqxuqkkhufatck,uiteghuqtluykuoteqhueqhka
swcupfxqwowikqlukgtzekqikmuNsklskauskuvqknutoulswcuhkowiwkqiruswpckgouW
ifq'lucfrmuWulswqvulskuvqtngkhxkuifpkultuswpuflugfcl--tqgruflulskudkar
gfclmuYelulskunwghkaqkccusfhuoteqhuswputelukfagr,ufqhusfhulfvkqutquswpuf
lkaawygkudkqxkfqikuotaulskuofqlfclwiuwqdfcwtqmuWulswqvuwlusfhunswc kakh
ltuswpulswqxcufyteluswpckgounswisuskuhwhuqtluvqtn,ulswqxcutounswisusk
sfhuqtuitqik lwtqulwgguskulttvuiteqckgunwlsulswcuxakfluctgwlehk--fqhulsk
nswc kausfhu atdkhuwaakcwclwygruofciwqflwqxmuWlukistkhugtehgrunwlswquswp
ykifeckuskunfcustggtnuflulskuitakmmmmuWu eluhtnqulskuxgfcc,ufqhulsk
skfhulsflusfhuf  kfakhuqkfaukqtexsultuykuc tvkqultuckkpkhuflutqikult
sfdkugkf khufnfruoatpupkuwqltuwqfiikccwygkuhwclfqikm

“LskufhpwakautouPamuVealjunfcufuywluiakclofggkqmuWqufuseaawkh,
wqhwclwqiludtwikuskuykxfqultufcceakupkuskusfhuqtluhfakhultulfvk
lskck--cfr,ucrpytgc--htnqmuSkunfcuqtlufoafwhutoulskuqflwdkc;ulskruntegh
qtluclwaulwgguPamuVealjuxfdkulskuntahmuSwcufcikqhfqirunfcukblaftahwqfarm
Lskuifp cutoulskcku kt gkuceaateqhkhulsku gfik,ufqhulskuiswkocuifpk
kdkaruhfrultuckkuswpmuLskrunteghuiafngmmmmu'Wuhtq'lunfqlultuvqtn
fqrlswqxutoulskuikakptqwkcueckhunskquf  atfiswqxuPamuVealj,'uWucstelkhm
Ieawtec,ulswcuokkgwqxulsfluifpkutdkaupkulsfluceisuhklfwgcunteghuykuptak
wqltgkafygkulsfqulstckuskfhcuharwqxutqulskuclfvkcueqhkauPamuVealj'c
nwqhtncmuFolkaufgg,ulsflunfcutqgrufucfdfxkucwxsl,unswgkuWuckkpkhufl
tqkuyteqhultusfdkuykkqulafqc talkhuwqltuctpkugwxslgkccuakxwtqutouceylgk
staatac,unskaku eak,ueqitp gwiflkhucfdfxkarunfcufu tcwlwdkuakgwko,uykwqx
ctpklswqxulsflusfhufuawxslultukbwcl--tydwtecgr--wqulskuceqcswqkmuLsk
rteqxupfqugttvkhuflupkunwlsucea awckmuWuce  tckuwluhwhuqtlutiieault
swpulsfluPamuVealjunfcuqtuwhtgutoupwqkmuSkuotaxtluWusfhq'luskfahufqruto
lskckuc gkqhwhuptqtgtxekcutq,unsflunfcuwl?utqugtdk,u.eclwik,uitqheil
tougwok--taunsfluqtlmuWouwlusfhuitpkultuiafngwqxuykotakuPamuVealj,usk
iafngkhufcupeisufculskudkawkclucfdfxkutoulskpufggmuWusfhuqtuwhkfutoulsk
itqhwlwtqc,uskucfwh:ulskckuskfhcunkakulskuskfhcutouakykgcmuWucstivkhuswp
kbikccwdkgruyrugfexswqxmuAkykgc!uNsflunteghuykulskuqkbluhkowqwlwtquW
nfcultuskfa?uLskakusfhuykkqukqkpwkc,uiawpwqfgc,untavkac--fqhulskck
nkakuakykgcmuLstckuakykggwtecuskfhcugttvkhudkaruceyhekhultupkutqulskwa
clwivcmu'Rteuhtq'luvqtnustnuceisufugwokulawkcufupfqugwvkuVealj,'uiawkh
Vealj'cugfcluhwciw gkmu'Nkgg,ufqhurte?'uWucfwhmu'W!uW!uWufpufucwp gk
pfqmuWusfdkuqtuxakflulstexslcmuWunfqluqtlswqxuoatpufqrythrmuStnuifq
rteuitp fakupkultmmm?'uSwcuokkgwqxcunkakulttupeisuotauc kkis,ufqh
cehhkqgruskuyatvkuhtnqmu'Wuhtq'lueqhkaclfqh,'uskuxatfqkhmu'W'dkuykkq
htwqxupruykclultuvkk uswpufgwdk,ufqhulsfl'cukqtexsmuWusfhuqtusfqhuwq
fggulswcmuWusfdkuqtufywgwlwkcmuLskakusfcq'luykkqufuhat utoupkhwiwqkutauf
ptelsoegutouwqdfgwhuotthuotauptqlscuskakmuSkunfcucsfpkoeggrufyfqhtqkhm
Fupfqugwvkulswc,unwlsuceisuwhkfcmuCsfpkoeggr!uCsfpkoeggr!uW--W--sfdkq'l
cgk luotaulskugfclulkquqwxslcmmm'

“SwcudtwikugtcluwlckgouwqulskuifgputoulskukdkqwqxmuLskugtqxucsfhtncuto
lskuotakclusfhucgw  khuhtnqswggunswgkunkulfgvkh,usfhuxtqkuofauykrtqh
lskuaewqkhustdkg,uykrtqhulskucrpytgwiuatnutouclfvkcmuFggulswcunfcuwqulsk
xgttp,unswgkunkuhtnqulskakunkakurkluwqulskuceqcswqk,ufqhulskuclaklis
toulskuawdkaufyakfclutoulskuigkfawqxuxgwllkakhuwqufuclwggufqhuhfjjgwqx
c gkqhtea,unwlsufupeavrufqhutdkacsfhtnkhuykqhufytdkufqhuykgtnmuQtluf
gwdwqxuctegunfcuckkqutqulskucstakmuLskuyecskcuhwhuqtluaeclgkm

“Cehhkqgruateqhulskuitaqkautoulskusteckufuxate utoupkquf  kfakh,ufc
lstexsulskrusfhuitpkue uoatpulskuxateqhmuLskrunfhkhunfwcl-hkk uwqulsk
xafcc,uwqufuitp filuythr,uykfawqxufquwp atdwckhuclakliskauwqulskwa
pwhclmuWqclfqlgr,uwqulskukp lwqkccutoulskugfqhcif k,ufuiarufatckunstck
csawggqkccu wkaikhulskuclwggufwaugwvkufucsfa ufaatnuogrwqxuclafwxslult
lskudkaruskfalutoulskugfqh;ufqh,ufcuwouyrukqisfqlpkql,uclakfpcutousepfq
ykwqxc--touqfvkhusepfquykwqxc--nwlsuc kfacuwqulskwausfqhc,unwlsuytnc,
nwlsucswkghc,unwlsunwghuxgfqikcufqhucfdfxkuptdkpkqlc,unkaku teakhuwqlt
lskuigkfawqxuyrulskuhfav-ofikhufqhu kqcwdkuotakclmuLskuyecskcucsttv,ulsk
xafccucnfrkhuotaufulwpk,ufqhulskqukdkarlswqxucltthuclwgguwqufllkqlwdk
wpptywgwlrm

“'Qtn,uwouskuhtkcuqtlucfrulskuawxslulswqxultulskpunkufakufgguhtqkuota,'
cfwhulskuAeccwfqufluprukgytnmuLskuvqtlutoupkqunwlsulskuclakliskausfh
clt  kh,ultt,usfgonfrultulskuclkfpka,ufcuwou klawowkhmuWucfnulskupfqutq
lskuclakliskaucwlue ,ugfqvufqhunwlsufque gwolkhufap,ufytdkulskucsteghkac
toulskuykfakacmu'Gkluecust kulsflulskupfqunstuifqulfgvuctunkggutougtdk
wquxkqkafgunwgguowqhuctpku falwiegfauakfctqultuc fakueculswculwpk,'uW
cfwhmuWuakckqlkhuywllkagrulskufyceahuhfqxkautouteaucwleflwtq,ufcuwo
ltuykuflulskupkairutoulsfluflatiwtecu sfqltpusfhuykkqufuhwcstqteawqx
qkikccwlrmuWuiteghuqtluskfaufucteqh,uyelulsatexsupruxgfcckcuWucfnulsk
lswqufapukblkqhkhuitppfqhwqxgr,ulskugtnkau.fnuptdwqx,ulskukrkcuto
lsfluf  fawlwtqucswqwqxuhfavgruofauwquwlcuytqruskfhulsfluqthhkhunwls
xatlkczeku.kavcmuVealj--Vealj--lsflupkfqcucstaluwquXkapfq--htq'luwl?
Nkgg,ulskuqfpkunfcufculaekufcukdkarlswqxukgckuwquswcugwok--fqhuhkflsm
SkugttvkhuflugkfcluckdkquokklugtqxmuSwcuitdkawqxusfhuofggkqutoo,ufqhuswc
ythrukpkaxkhuoatpuwlu wlwoegufqhuf  fggwqxufcuoatpufunwqhwqx-cskklmuW
iteghuckkulskuifxkutouswcuawycufggufclwa,ulskuytqkcutouswcufapunfdwqxm
Wlunfcufculstexsufqufqwpflkhuwpfxkutouhkflsuifadkhutelutoutghuwdtarusfh
ykkqucsfvwqxuwlcusfqhunwlsupkqfikcuflufuptlwtqgkccuiatnhutoupkqupfhkuto
hfavufqhuxgwllkawqxuyatqjkmuWucfnuswput kquswcuptelsunwhk--wluxfdkuswp
funkwahgrudtafiwtecufc kil,ufculstexsuskusfhunfqlkhultucnfggtnufggulsk
fwa,ufggulskukfals,ufggulskupkquykotakuswpmuFuhkk udtwikuakfiskh
pkuofwqlgrmuSkupeclusfdkuykkqucstelwqxmuSkuokgguyfivucehhkqgrmuLsk
clakliskaucsttvufculskuykfakacuclfxxkakhuotanfahufxfwq,ufqhufgptclufl
lskucfpkulwpkuWuqtlwikhulsflulskuiatnhutoucfdfxkcunfcudfqwcswqxunwlstel
fqru kaik lwygkuptdkpkqlutouaklakfl,ufcuwoulskuotakclulsflusfhuk.kilkh
lskckuykwqxcuctucehhkqgrusfhuhafnqulskpuwqufxfwqufculskuyakflsuwcuhafnq
wqufugtqxufc waflwtqm

“Ctpkutoulsku wgxawpcuykswqhulskuclakliskauifaawkhuswc
fapc--lntucstl-xeqc,ufuskfdruawogk,ufqhufugwxsluakdtgdka-ifaywqk--lsk
lseqhkaytglcutoulsflu wlwoegu.e wlkamuLskupfqfxkauykqlutdkauswp
peapeawqxufcuskunfgvkhuykcwhkuswcuskfhmuLskrugfwhuswpuhtnquwqutqkutoulsk
gwllgkuifywqc--.eclufuattpuotaufuykhu gfikufqhufuifp -clttgutaulnt,
rteuvqtnmuNkusfhuyatexsluswcuykgflkhuitaakc tqhkqik,ufqhufugtlutoultaq
kqdkgt kcufqhut kqugkllkacugwllkakhuswcuykhmuSwcusfqhuatfpkhuokkygr
fptqxclulskcku f kacmuWunfcuclaeivuyrulskuowakutouswcukrkcufqhulsk
itp tckhugfqxetautouswcukb akccwtqmuWlunfcuqtluctupeisulskukbsfeclwtquto
hwckfckmuSkuhwhuqtluckkpuwqu fwqmuLswcucsfhtnugttvkhucflwflkhufqhuifgp,
fculstexsuotaulskuptpkqluwlusfhusfhuwlcuowggutoufggulskukptlwtqcm

“Skuaeclgkhutqkutoulskugkllkac,ufqhugttvwqxuclafwxsluwqupruofikucfwh,
'Wufpuxgfhm'uCtpkythrusfhuykkqunawlwqxultuswpufytelupkmuLskckuc kiwfg
akitppkqhflwtqcunkakuleaqwqxue ufxfwqmuLskudtgepkutoultqkuskukpwllkh
nwlstelukootal,ufgptclunwlstelulskulateygkutouptdwqxuswcugw c,ufpfjkh
pkmuFudtwik!ufudtwik!uWlunfcuxafdk,u atoteqh,udwyaflwqx,unswgkulskupfq
hwhuqtluckkpuif fygkutoufunswc kamuStnkdka,uskusfhukqtexsuclakqxlsuwq
swp--ofilwlwtecuqtuhteyl--ltudkaruqkfagrupfvkufqukqhutouec,ufcurte
csfgguskfauhwakilgrm

“Lskupfqfxkauf  kfakhucwgkqlgruwqulskuhttanfr;uWuclk  khuteluflutqik
fqhuskuhaknulskuiealfwqufolkaupkmuLskuAeccwfq,ukrkhuieawtecgruyrulsk
 wgxawpc,unfcuclfawqxuflulskucstakmuWuotggtnkhulskuhwakilwtqutouswc
xgfqikm

“Hfavusepfqucsf kcuiteghuykupfhkuteluwqulskuhwclfqik,uogwllwqx
wqhwclwqilgrufxfwqclulskuxgttpruytahkautoulskuotakcl,ufqhuqkfaulskuawdka
lntuyatqjkuowxeakc,ugkfqwqxutqulfgguc kfac,ucltthuwqulskuceqgwxslueqhka
ofqlfclwiuskfh-hakcckcutouc tllkhucvwqc,unfagwvkufqhuclwgguwquclflekczek
ak tckmuFqhuoatpuawxslultugkolufgtqxulskugwxslkhucstakuptdkhufunwghufqh
xtaxktecuf  fawlwtqutoufuntpfqm

“Cskunfgvkhunwlsupkfceakhuclk c,uhaf khuwquclaw khufqhuoawqxkhuigtlsc,
lakfhwqxulskukfalsu atehgr,unwlsufucgwxslu.wqxgkufqhuogfcsutouyfayfatec
taqfpkqlcmuCskuifaawkhuskauskfhuswxs;uskausfwaunfcuhtqkuwqulskucsf kuto
fuskgpkl;ucskusfhuyafccugkxxwqxcultulskuvqkk,uyafccunwakuxfeqlgklcult
lskukgytn,ufuiawpctquc tlutquskaulfnqruiskkv,uwqqepkafygkuqkivgfikcuto
xgfccuykfhcutquskauqkiv;uywjfaakulswqxc,uisfapc,uxwolcutounwlis-pkq,
lsfluseqxufyteluska,uxgwllkakhufqhulakpygkhuflukdkaruclk muCskupeclusfdk
sfhulskudfgekutouckdkafgukgk sfqlulecvcue tquskamuCskunfcucfdfxkufqh
ce kay,unwgh-krkhufqhupfxqwowikql;ulskakunfcuctpklswqxutpwqtecufqh
clflkgruwquskauhkgwykaflku atxakccmuFqhuwqulskusecsulsflusfhuofggkq
cehhkqgrue tqulskunstgkuctaatnoegugfqh,ulskuwppkqckunwghkaqkcc,ulsk
itgtccfguythrutoulskuokieqhufqhuprclkawtecugwokuckkpkhultugttvufluska,
 kqcwdk,ufculstexsuwlusfhuykkqugttvwqxuflulskuwpfxkutouwlcutnqulkqkyatec
fqhu fccwtqflkuctegm

“Cskuifpkufyakfclutoulskuclkfpka,ucltthuclwgg,ufqhuofikhuecmuSkaugtqx
csfhtnuokggultulskunflka'cukhxkmuSkauofikusfhufulafxwiufqhuowkaik
fc kilutounwghuctaatnufqhutouhepyu fwqupwqxgkhunwlsulskuokfautouctpk
claexxgwqx,usfgo-csf khuakctgdkmuCskucltthugttvwqxufluecunwlsteluf
clwa,ufqhugwvkulskunwghkaqkccuwlckgo,unwlsufqufwautouyatthwqxutdkaufq
wqciaelfygku ea tckmuFunstgkupwqelku fcckh,ufqhulskqucskupfhkufuclk 
otanfahmuLskakunfcufugtnu.wqxgk,ufuxgwqlutourkggtnupklfg,ufucnfruto
oawqxkhuhaf kawkc,ufqhucskuclt  khufcuwouskauskfalusfhuofwgkhuskamuLsk
rteqxuokggtnuyruprucwhkuxatngkhmuLsku wgxawpcupeapeakhuflupruyfivm
Cskugttvkhufluecufggufcuwouskaugwokusfhuhk kqhkhue tqulskueqcnkadwqx
clkfhwqkccutouskauxgfqikmuCehhkqgrucskut kqkhuskauyfakhufapcufqhulsakn
lskpue uawxwhufytdkuskauskfh,ufculstexsuwqufqueqitqlatggfygkuhkcwakult
lteisulskucvr,ufqhuflulskucfpkulwpkulskucnwolucsfhtncuhfalkhutelutqulsk
kfals,ucnk lufateqhutqulskuawdka,uxflskawqxulskuclkfpkauwqltufucsfhtnr
kpyafikmuFuotapwhfygkucwgkqikuseqxutdkaulskucikqkm

“Cskuleaqkhufnfrucgtngr,unfgvkhutq,uotggtnwqxulskuyfqv,ufqhu fcckhuwqlt
lskuyecskcultulskugkolmuTqikutqgruskaukrkcuxgkfpkhuyfivufluecuwqulsk
hecvutoulskulswivklcuykotakucskuhwcf  kfakhm

“'WoucskusfhutookakhultuitpkufytfahuWuakfggrulswqvuWunteghusfdkulawkhult
csttluska,'ucfwhulskupfqutou fliskc,uqkadtecgrmu'Wusfdkuykkquawcvwqxupr
gwokukdkaruhfruotaulskugfcluotalqwxslultuvkk uskautelutoulskusteckmuCsk
xtluwqutqkuhfrufqhuvwivkhue ufuatnufytelulstckupwckafygkuafxcuWu wivkh
e uwqulskucltakattpultupkqhupruigtlskcunwlsmuWunfcq'luhkikqlmuFlugkfcl
wlupeclusfdkuykkqulsfl,uotaucskulfgvkhugwvkufuoearultuVealjuotaufqustea,
 twqlwqxuflupkuqtnufqhulskqmuWuhtq'lueqhkaclfqhulskuhwfgkilutoulswc
lawykmuGeivwgruotaupk,uWuofqiruVealjuokglulttuwggulsfluhfrultuifak,uta
lskakunteghusfdkuykkqupwciswkomuWuhtq'lueqhkaclfqhmmmmuQt--wl'cultt
peisuotaupkmuFs,unkgg,uwl'cufggutdkauqtnm'

“FlulswcuptpkqluWuskfahuVealj'cuhkk udtwikuykswqhulskuiealfwq:u'Cfdk
pk!--cfdkulskuwdtar,urteupkfqmuHtq'lulkggupkmuCfdku_pk!_uNsr,uW'dkusfhult
cfdkurtemuRteufakuwqlkaae lwqxupru gfqcuqtnmuCwiv!uCwiv!uQtluctucwivufc
rteunteghugwvkultuykgwkdkmuQkdkaupwqhmuW'gguifaarupruwhkfcutelurkl--W
nwgguakleaqmuW'ggucstnurteunsfluifquykuhtqkmuRteunwlsurteaugwllgk
 khhgwqxuqtlwtqc--rteufakuwqlkaokawqxunwlsupkmuWunwgguakleaqmuWmmmm'

“LskupfqfxkauifpkutelmuSkuhwhupkulskustqteaultulfvkupkueqhkaulskufap
fqhugkfhupkufcwhkmu'Skuwcudkarugtn,udkarugtn,'uskucfwhmuSkuitqcwhkakhuwl
qkikccfarultucwxs,uyeluqkxgkilkhultuykuitqcwclkqlgructaatnoegmu'Nkusfdk
htqkufggunkuiteghuotauswp--sfdkq'lunk?uYelulskakuwcuqtuhwcxewcwqxulsk
ofil,uPamuVealjusfcuhtqkuptakusfapulsfquxtthultulskuItp fqrmuSkuhwh
qtluckkulskulwpkunfcuqtluaw kuotaudwxtatecufilwtqmuIfelwtecgr,
ifelwtecgr--lsfl'cupru awqiw gkmuNkupecluykuifelwtecurklmuLskuhwclawil
wcuigtckhultuecuotaufulwpkmuHk gtafygk!uE tqulskunstgk,ulskulafhkunwgg
ceookamuWuhtq'luhkqrulskakuwcufuakpfavfygkuzefqlwlrutouwdtar--ptclgr
otccwgmuNkupeclucfdkuwl,uflufggukdkqlc--yelugttvustnu akifawteculsk
 tcwlwtquwc--fqhunsr?uYkifeckulskupklsthuwcueqcteqhm'u'Hturte,'ucfwhuW,
gttvwqxuflulskucstak,u'ifgguwlu“eqcteqhupklsth?”'u'Nwlsteluhteyl,'usk
kbigfwpkhustlgrmu'Htq'lurte?'mmmu'Qtupklsthuflufgg,'uWupeapeakhufolka
funswgkmu'Kbfilgr,'uskukbeglkhmu'Wufqlwiw flkhulswcmuCstncufuitp gklk
nfqlutou.ehxpkqlmuWluwcupruhelrultu twqluwluteluwqulsku at kauzefalkam'
'Ts,'ucfwhuW,u'lsfluokggtn--nsfl'cuswcuqfpk?--lskuyawivpfvka,unwggupfvk
fuakfhfygkuak taluotaurtem'uSkuf  kfakhuitqoteqhkhuotaufuptpkqlmuWl
ckkpkhultupkuWusfhuqkdkauyakflskhufquflptc skakuctudwgk,ufqhuWuleaqkh
pkqlfggrultuVealjuotauakgwko-- tcwlwdkgruotauakgwkomu'QkdkalskgkccuW
lswqvuPamuVealjuwcufuakpfavfygkupfq,'uWucfwhunwlsukp sfcwcmuSkuclfalkh,
hat  khutqupkufuskfdruxgfqik,ucfwhudkaruzewklgr,u'sku_nfc_,'ufqhuleaqkh
swcuyfivutqupkmuPrusteautouofdteaunfcutdka;uWuoteqhuprckgougep khufgtqx
nwlsuVealjufcufu falwcfqutoupklsthcuotaunswisulskulwpkunfcuqtluaw k:
Wunfcueqcteqh!uFs!uyeluwlunfcuctpklswqxultusfdkuflugkfclufuistwikuto
qwxslpfakcm

“Wusfhuleaqkhultulskunwghkaqkccuakfggr,uqtlultuPamuVealj,unst,uWunfc
akfhrultufhpwl,unfcufcuxtthufcuyeawkhmuFqhuotaufuptpkqluwluckkpkhultupk
fcuwouWufgctunkakuyeawkhuwqufudfcluxafdkuoeggutoueqc kfvfygkuckiaklcmuW
okglufquwqltgkafygkunkwxslut  akccwqxupruyakfcl,ulskucpkggutoulskuhfp 
kfals,ulskueqckkqu akckqikutoudwiltawtecuitaae lwtq,ulskuhfavqkccutoufq
wp kqklafygkuqwxslmmmmuLskuAeccwfqulf  khupkutqulskucsteghkamuWuskfah
swpupepygwqxufqhuclfppkawqxuctpklswqxufytelu'yatlskauckfpfq--iteghq'l
itqikfg--vqtngkhxkutoupfllkaculsflunteghufookiluPamuVealj'c
ak elflwtqm'uWunfwlkhmuOtauswpukdwhkqlgruPamuVealjunfcuqtluwquswcuxafdk;
Wucec kilulsfluotauswpuPamuVealjunfcutqkutoulskuwpptalfgcmu'Nkgg!'ucfwh
Wuflugfcl,u'c kfvutelmuFcuwlusf  kqc,uWufpuPamuVealj'cuoawkqh--wquf
nfrm'

“Skuclflkhunwlsufuxtthuhkfgutouotapfgwlrulsflusfhunkuqtluykkqu'toulsk
cfpku atokccwtq,'uskunteghusfdkuvk lulskupfllkaultuswpckgounwlstel
akxfahultuitqckzekqikcmu'Skucec kilkhulskakunfcufqufilwdkuwgg-nwgg
ltnfahcuswputqulsku falutoulskckunswlkupkqulsfl--'u'Rteufakuawxsl,'uW
cfwh,uakpkpykawqxufuikalfwquitqdkacflwtquWusfhutdkaskfahmu'Lskupfqfxka
lswqvcurteutexslultuykusfqxkhm'uSkucstnkhufuitqikaquflulswcuwqlkggwxkqik
nswisufpeckhupkufluowaclmu'Wusfhuykllkauxklutelutoulskunfruzewklgr,'
skucfwhukfaqkclgrmu'WuifquhtuqtuptakuotauVealjuqtn,ufqhulskrunteghucttq
owqhuctpkukbieckmuNsfl'cultuclt ulskp?uLskak'cufupwgwlfaru tclulsakk
seqhakhupwgkcuoatpuskakm'u'Nkgg,ue tqupruntah,'ucfwhuW,u' kasf curte
sfhuykllkauxtuwourteusfdkufqruoawkqhcufptqxclulskucfdfxkcuqkfauyrm'
' gkqlr,'uskucfwhmu'Lskrufakucwp gku kt gk--fqhuWunfqluqtlswqx,urte
vqtnm'uSkucltthuywlwqxuswcugw ,ulskq:u'Wuhtq'lunfqlufqrusfapultusf  kq
ltulskckunswlkcuskak,uyelutouiteackuWunfculswqvwqxutouPamuVealj'c
ak elflwtq--yelurteufakufuyatlskauckfpfqufqh--'u'Fgguawxsl,'ucfwhuW,
folkaufulwpkmu'PamuVealj'cuak elflwtquwcucfokunwlsupkm'uWuhwhuqtluvqtn
stnulaegruWuc tvkm

“Skuwqotapkhupk,ugtnkawqxuswcudtwik,ulsfluwlunfcuVealjunstusfhutahkakh
lskufllfivultuykupfhkutqulskuclkfpkamu'Skusflkhuctpklwpkculskuwhkfuto
ykwqxulfvkqufnfr--fqhulskqufxfwqmmmmuYeluWuhtq'lueqhkaclfqhulskck
pfllkacmuWufpufucwp gkupfqmuSkulstexsluwlunteghucifakurteufnfr--lsflurte
nteghuxwdkuwlue ,ulswqvwqxuswpuhkfhmuWuiteghuqtluclt uswpmuTs,uWusfhufq
fnoegulwpkutouwlulswcugfcluptqlsm'u'Dkarunkgg,'uWucfwhmu'Skuwcufgguawxsl
qtnm'u'Rk-k-kc,'uskupellkakh,uqtludkaruitqdwqikhuf  fakqlgrmu'Lsfqvc,'
cfwhuW;u'Wucsfgguvkk uprukrkcut kqm'u'Yeluzewkl-ks?'uskueaxkhufqbwtecgrm
'Wlunteghuykufnoeguotauswcuak elflwtquwoufqrythruskak--'uWu atpwckhuf
itp gklkuhwciaklwtqunwlsuxakfluxafdwlrmu'Wusfdkufuifqtkufqhulsakk
ygfivuokggtncunfwlwqxuqtludkaruofamuWufputoomuIteghurteuxwdkupkufuokn
Pfalwqw-Skqaruifalawhxkc?'uWuitegh,ufqhuhwh,unwlsu at kauckiakirmuSk
skg khuswpckgo,unwlsufunwqvuflupk,ultufusfqhoegutouprultyfiitmu'Yklnkkq
cfwgtac--rteuvqtn--xtthuKqxgwcsultyfiitm'uFlulskuhttautoulsku wgtl-steck
skuleaqkhuateqh--'Wucfr,usfdkq'lurteufu fwautoucstkcurteuiteghuc fak?'
Skuafwckhutqkugkxmu'Gttvm'uLskuctgkcunkakulwkhunwlsuvqtllkhuclawqxc
cfqhfgnwckueqhkauswcuyfakuokklmuWuattlkhutelufqutghu fwa,uflunswisusk
gttvkhunwlsufhpwaflwtquykotakuleivwqxuwlueqhkauswcugkolufapmuTqkutouswc
 tivklcu(yawxsluakh)unfcuyegxwqxunwlsuifalawhxkc,uoatpulskutlskau(hfav
ygek)u kk khu'Ltnctq'cuWqzewar,'uklim,uklimuSkuckkpkhultulswqvuswpckgo
kbikggkqlgrunkggukzew  khuotaufuakqknkhukqiteqlkaunwlsulskunwghkaqkccm
'Fs!uW'gguqkdka,uqkdkaupkkluceisufupfqufxfwqmuRteutexslultusfdkuskfah
swpuakiwlku tklar--swcutnq,ultt,uwlunfc,uskultghupkmu tklar!'uSkuatggkh
swcukrkcuflulskuakitggkilwtqutoulskckuhkgwxslcmu'Ts,uskukqgfaxkhupr
pwqh!'u'Xtth-yrk,'ucfwhuWmuSkucsttvusfqhcufqhudfqwcskhuwqulskuqwxslm
CtpklwpkcuWufcvuprckgounsklskauWusfhukdkauakfggruckkquswp--nsklskauwl
nfcu tccwygkultupkkluceisufu skqtpkqtq!mmm

“NskquWuntvkue ucstalgrufolkaupwhqwxsluswcunfaqwqxuifpkultuprupwqhunwls
wlcuswqlutouhfqxkaulsfluckkpkh,uwqulskuclfaakhuhfavqkcc,uakfgukqtexsult
pfvkupkuxklue uotaulsku ea tckutousfdwqxufugttvuateqhmuTqulskuswgguf
ywxuowakuyeaqkh,uwggepwqflwqxuowloeggrufuiattvkhuitaqkautoulsk
clflwtq-steckmuTqkutoulskufxkqlcunwlsufu wivklutoufuoknutouteauygfivc,
fapkhuotaulsku ea tck,unfcuvkk wqxuxefahutdkaulskuwdtar;uyeluhkk unwlswq
lskuotakcl,uakhuxgkfpculsflunfdkakh,ulsfluckkpkhultucwqvufqhuawckuoatp
lskuxateqhufptqxcluitqoeckhuitgepqfaucsf kcutouwqlkqckuygfivqkcc,ucstnkh
lskukbfilu tcwlwtqutoulskuifp unskakuPamuVealj'cufhtakacunkakuvkk wqx
lskwaueqkfcrudwxwgmuLskuptqtltqtecuykflwqxutoufuywxuhaepuowggkhulskufwa
nwlsupeoogkhucstivcufqhufugwqxkawqxudwyaflwtqmuFuclkfhruhatqwqxucteqhuto
pfqrupkquisfqlwqxukfisultuswpckgouctpkunkwahuwqifqlflwtquifpkuteluoatp
lskuygfiv,uogflunfggutoulskuntthcufculskuseppwqxutouykkcuitpkcuteluto
fuswdk,ufqhusfhufuclafqxkuqfaitlwiukookilue tquprusfgo-fnfvkuckqckcm
WuykgwkdkuWuhtjkhutoougkfqwqxutdkaulskuafwg,ulwggufqufyae luyeacluto
rkggc,ufqutdkanskgpwqxutelyakfvutoufu kql-e ufqhuprclkawtecuoakqjr,untvk
pkue uwqufuyknwghkakhuntqhkamuWlunfcuielucstalufgguflutqik,ufqhulsk
gtnuhatqwqxunkqlutqunwlsufqukookilutoufehwygkufqhucttlswqxucwgkqikmuW
xgfqikhuifcefggruwqltulskugwllgkuifywqmuFugwxslunfcuyeaqwqxunwlswq,uyel
PamuVealjunfcuqtlulskakm

“WulswqvuWunteghusfdkuafwckhufquteliaruwouWusfhuykgwkdkhuprukrkcmuYeluW
hwhq'luykgwkdkulskpufluowacl--lskulswqxuckkpkhuctuwp tccwygkmuLskuofil
wcuWunfcuitp gklkgrueqqkadkhuyrufucskkauygfqvuoawxsl,u eakufyclafil
lkaata,ueqitqqkilkhunwlsufqruhwclwqilucsf kutou srcwifguhfqxkamuNsfl
pfhkulswcukptlwtquctutdka tnkawqxunfc--stnucsfgguWuhkowqkuwl?--lsk
ptafgucstivuWuakikwdkh,ufcuwouctpklswqxufgltxklskauptqclatec,
wqltgkafygkultulstexslufqhuthwtecultulskucteg,usfhuykkqulsaeclue tqupk
eqkb kilkhgrmuLswcugfclkhutouiteackulskupkakcluoafilwtqutoufuckitqh,ufqh
lskqulskuecefguckqckutouitpptq gfik,uhkfhgruhfqxka,ulsku tccwywgwlruto
fucehhkqutqcgfexslufqhupfccfiak,utauctpklswqxutoulskuvwqh,unswisuWucfn
wp kqhwqx,unfcu tcwlwdkgrunkgitpkufqhuitp tcwqxmuWlu fiwowkhupk,uwq
ofil,uctupeisulsfluWuhwhuqtluafwckufqufgfapm

“Lskakunfcufqufxkqluyelltqkhue uwqcwhkufquegclkaufqhucgkk wqxutqufuisfwa
tquhkivunwlswqulsakkuokklutoupkmuLskurkggcusfhuqtlufnfvkqkhuswp;usk
cqtakhudkarucgwxslgr;uWugkoluswpultuswcucgepykacufqhugkf khufcstakm
WuhwhuqtluyklafruPamuVealj--wlunfcutahkakhuWucsteghuqkdkauyklafruswp--wl
nfcunawllkquWucsteghuykugtrfgultulskuqwxslpfakutoupruistwikmuWunfc
fqbwtecultuhkfgunwlsulswcucsfhtnuyruprckgoufgtqk--fqhultulswcuhfruW
htq'luvqtnunsruWunfcuctu.kfgtecutoucsfawqxunwlsufqrutqkulsku kiegwfa
ygfivqkccutoulsflukb kawkqikm

“FcucttqufcuWuxtlutqulskuyfqvuWucfnufulafwg--fuyatfhulafwgulsatexsulsk
xafccmuWuakpkpykaulskukbeglflwtqunwlsunswisuWucfwhultuprckgo,u'Skuifq'l
nfgv--skuwcuiafngwqxutqufgg-oteac--W'dkuxtluswpm'uLskuxafccunfcunkl
nwlsuhknmuWuclathkuaf whgrunwlsuigkqiskhuowclcmuWuofqiruWusfhuctpkudfxek
qtlwtqutouofggwqxue tquswpufqhuxwdwqxuswpufuhaeyywqxmuWuhtq'luvqtnmuW
sfhuctpkuwpykiwgkulstexslcmuLskuvqwllwqxutghuntpfqunwlsulskuiflutylaehkh
skackgoue tquprupkptarufcufuptcluwp at kau kactqultuykucwllwqxuflulsk
tlskaukqhutouceisufqufoofwamuWucfnufuatnutou wgxawpcuczewalwqxugkfhuwq
lskufwautelutouNwqiskclkacuskghultulskusw muWulstexsluWunteghuqkdkauxkl
yfivultulskuclkfpka,ufqhuwpfxwqkhuprckgougwdwqxufgtqkufqhueqfapkhuwqulsk
ntthcultufqufhdfqikhufxkmuCeisucwggrulswqxc--rteuvqtnmuFqhuWuakpkpyka
Wuitqoteqhkhulskuykflutoulskuhaepunwlsulskuykflwqxutoupruskfal,ufqhunfc
 gkfckhufluwlcuifgpuakxegfawlrm

“Wuvk lultulskulafivulstexs--lskquclt  khultugwclkqmuLskuqwxslunfcudkar
igkfa;ufuhfavuygekuc fik,uc favgwqxunwlsuhknufqhuclfagwxsl,uwqunswis
ygfivulswqxcucltthudkaruclwggmuWulstexsluWuiteghuckkufuvwqhutouptlwtq
fskfhutoupkmuWunfcuclafqxkgruitivceakutoukdkarlswqxulsfluqwxslmuW
filefggrugkolulskulafivufqhuafquwqufunwhkuckpwiwaigku(Wudkawgruykgwkdk
iseivgwqxultuprckgo)uctufcultuxkluwquoatqlutoulsfluclwa,utoulsfluptlwtq
Wusfhuckkq--wouwqhkkhuWusfhuckkqufqrlswqxmuWunfcuiwaiepdkqlwqxuVealjufc
lstexsuwlusfhuykkqufuytrwcsuxfpkm

“Wuifpkue tquswp,ufqh,uwouskusfhuqtluskfahupkuitpwqx,uWunteghusfdk
ofggkqutdkauswp,ultt,uyeluskuxtlue uwqulwpkmuSkuatck,ueqclkfhr,ugtqx,
 fgk,uwqhwclwqil,ugwvkufudf teaukbsfgkhuyrulskukfals,ufqhucnfrkh
cgwxslgr,upwclrufqhucwgkqluykotakupk;unswgkuflupruyfivulskuowakcugttpkh
yklnkkqulskulakkc,ufqhulskupeapeautoupfqrudtwikcuwccekhuoatpulskuotakclm
Wusfhuieluswputoouigkdkagr;uyelunskqufilefggruitqoatqlwqxuswpuWuckkpkh
ltuitpkultupruckqckc,uWucfnulskuhfqxkauwquwlcuawxslu at talwtqmuWlunfc
yruqtupkfqcutdkaurklmuCe  tckuskuykxfqultucstel?uLstexsuskuiteghusfahgr
clfqh,ulskakunfcuclwggu gkqlrutoudwxteauwquswcudtwikmu'Xtufnfr--swhk
rteackgo,'uskucfwh,uwqulsflu atoteqhultqkmuWlunfcudkarufnoegmuWuxgfqikh
yfivmuNkunkakunwlswqulswalrurfahcuoatpulskuqkfakcluowakmuFuygfivuowxeak
cltthue ,uclathkutqugtqxuygfivugkxc,unfdwqxugtqxuygfivufapc,ufiatcculsk
xgtnmuWlusfhustaqc--fqlkgt kustaqc,uWulswqv--tquwlcuskfhmuCtpkuctaikaka,
ctpkunwlis-pfq,uqtuhteyl:uwlugttvkhuowkqhgwvkukqtexsmu'Hturteuvqtnunsfl
rteufakuhtwqx?'uWunswc kakhmu' kaokilgr,'uskufqcnkakh,uafwcwqxuswcudtwik
otaulsflucwqxgkuntah:uwlucteqhkhultupkuofautooufqhurklugteh,ugwvkufusfwg
lsatexsufuc kfvwqx-laep klmu'Wouskupfvkcufuatnunkufakugtcl,'uWulstexsl
ltuprckgomuLswcuigkfagrunfcuqtlufuifckuotauowclwieooc,ukdkquf faluoatp
lskudkaruqfleafgufdkacwtquWusfhultuykflulsfluCsfhtn--lswcunfqhkawqxufqh
ltapkqlkhulswqxmu'Rteunwgguykugtcl,'uWucfwh--'ellkagrugtclm'uTqkuxklc
ctpklwpkcuceisufuogfcsutouwqc waflwtq,urteuvqtnmuWuhwhucfrulskuawxsl
lswqx,ulstexsuwqhkkhuskuiteghuqtlusfdkuykkquptakuwaaklawkdfygrugtclulsfq
skunfcuflulswcudkaruptpkql,unskqulskuoteqhflwtqcutouteauwqlwpfirunkak
ykwqxugfwh--ltukqheak--ltukqheak--kdkqultulskukqh--kdkquykrtqhm

“'Wusfhuwppkqcku gfqc,'uskupellkakhuwaakctgelkgrmu'Rkc,'ucfwhuW;u'yeluwo
rteularultucsteluW'ggucpfcsurteauskfhunwls--'uLskakunfcuqtlufuclwivuta
fucltqkuqkfamu'Wunwggulsatllgkurteuotauxtth,'uWuitaakilkhuprckgomu'Wunfc
tqulskulsakcstghutouxakflulswqxc,'usku gkfhkh,uwqufudtwikutougtqxwqx,
nwlsufunwcloegqkccutoultqkulsflupfhkupruygtthuaequitghmu'Fqhuqtnuota
lswcucle whuciteqhakg--'u'RteauceiikccuwquKeat kuwcufcceakhuwqufqr
ifck,'uWufoowapkhuclkfhwgrmuWuhwhuqtlunfqlultusfdkulskulsatllgwqxuto
swp,urteueqhkaclfqh--fqhuwqhkkhuwlunteghusfdkuykkqudkarugwllgkueckuota
fqru afilwifgu ea tckmuWulawkhultuyakfvulskuc kgg--lskuskfdr,upelkuc kgg
toulskunwghkaqkcc--lsfluckkpkhultuhafnuswpultuwlcu wlwgkccuyakfcl
yrulskufnfvkqwqxutouotaxtllkqufqhuyaelfguwqclwqilc,uyrulskupkptaruto
xaflwowkhufqhuptqclatecu fccwtqcmuLswcufgtqk,uWunfcuitqdwqikh,usfh
hawdkquswputelultulskukhxkutoulskuotakcl,ultulskuyecs,ultnfahculskuxgkfp
touowakc,ulskulsatyutouhaepc,ulskuhatqkutounkwahuwqifqlflwtqc;ulswc
fgtqkusfhuykxewgkhuswcueqgfnoegucteguykrtqhulskuyteqhcutou kapwllkh
fc waflwtqcmuFqh,uhtq'lurteuckk,ulskulkaatautoulsku tcwlwtqunfcuqtluwq
ykwqxuvqtivkhutqulskuskfh--lstexsuWusfhufudkarugwdkgruckqckutoulsfl
hfqxka,ultt--yeluwqulswc,ulsfluWusfhultuhkfgunwlsufuykwqxultunstpuW
iteghuqtluf  kfguwqulskuqfpkutoufqrlswqxuswxsutaugtnmuWusfh,ukdkqugwvk
lskuqwxxkac,ultuwqdtvkuswp--swpckgo--swcutnqukbfglkhufqhuwqiakhwygk
hkxafhflwtqmuLskakunfcuqtlswqxukwlskaufytdkutauykgtnuswp,ufqhuWuvqkn
wlmuSkusfhuvwivkhuswpckgougttckutoulskukfalsmuItqoteqhulskupfq!uskusfh
vwivkhulskudkarukfalsultu wkikcmuSkunfcufgtqk,ufqhuWuykotakuswpuhwh
qtluvqtnunsklskauWucltthutqulskuxateqhutauogtflkhuwqulskufwamuW'dkuykkq
lkggwqxurteunsflunkucfwh--ak kflwqxulsku safckcunku atqteqikh--yel
nsfl'culskuxtth?uLskrunkakuitpptqukdkarhfruntahc--lskuofpwgwfa,udfxek
cteqhcukbisfqxkhutqukdkarunfvwqxuhfrutougwokmuYelunsflutoulsfl?uLskrusfh
ykswqhulskp,ultuprupwqh,ulskulkaawowiucexxkclwdkqkccutountahcuskfahuwq
hakfpc,utou safckcuc tvkquwquqwxslpfakcmuCteg!uWoufqrythrukdkauclaexxgkh
nwlsufucteg,uWufpulskupfqmuFqhuWunfcq'lufaxewqxunwlsufugeqflwiukwlskam
Ykgwkdkupkutauqtl,uswcuwqlkggwxkqikunfcu kaokilgruigkfa--itqikqlaflkh,
wluwculaek,ue tquswpckgounwlsustaawygkuwqlkqcwlr,urkluigkfa;ufqhulskakwq
nfcuprutqgruisfqik--yfaawqx,utouiteack,ulskuvwggwqxuswpulskakufqhulskq,
nswisunfcq'luctuxtth,utqufiiteqlutoueqfdtwhfygkuqtwckmuYeluswcuctegunfc
pfhmuYkwqxufgtqkuwqulskunwghkaqkcc,uwlusfhugttvkhunwlswquwlckgo,ufqh,uyr
skfdkqc!uWulkggurte,uwlusfhuxtqkupfhmuWusfh--otauprucwqc,uWuce  tck--lt
xtulsatexsulskutahkfgutougttvwqxuwqltuwluprckgomuQtukgtzekqikuitegh
sfdkuykkquctunwlskawqxultutqk'cuykgwkouwqupfqvwqhufcuswcuowqfguyeacluto
cwqikawlrmuSkuclaexxgkhunwlsuswpckgo,ulttmuWucfnuwl--WuskfahuwlmuWucfn
lskuwqitqikwdfygkuprclkarutoufuctegulsfluvqknuqtuakclafwql,uqtuofwls,
fqhuqtuokfa,urkluclaexxgwqxuygwqhgrunwlsuwlckgomuWuvk lupruskfhu akllr
nkgg;uyelunskquWusfhuswpuflugfcluclakliskhutqulskuiteis,uWunw khupr
otakskfh,unswgkuprugkxcucsttvueqhkaupkufculstexsuWusfhuifaawkhusfgouf
ltqutqupruyfivuhtnqulsfluswggmuFqhurkluWusfhutqgruce  talkhuswp,uswc
ytqrufapuigfc khuateqhupruqkiv--fqhuskunfcuqtlupeisuskfdwkaulsfquf
iswghm

“Nskquqkbluhfrunkugkolufluqttq,ulskuiatnh,utounstcku akckqikuykswqhulsk
iealfwqutoulakkcuWusfhuykkqufielkgruitqciwtecufggulskulwpk,uogtnkhutel
toulskuntthcufxfwq,uowggkhulskuigkfawqx,uitdkakhulskucgt kunwlsufupfcc
touqfvkh,uyakflswqx,uzewdkawqx,uyatqjkuythwkcmuWuclkfpkhue ufuywl,ulskq
cneqxuhtnquclakfp,ufqhulntulstecfqhukrkcuotggtnkhulskukdtgelwtqcuto
lskuc gfcswqx,ulsep wqx,uowkaikuawdka-hkptquykflwqxulskunflkaunwlsuwlc
lkaawygkulfwgufqhuyakflswqxuygfivucptvkuwqltulskufwamuWquoatqlutoulsk
owacluafqv,ufgtqxulskuawdka,ulsakkupkq,u gfclkakhunwlsuyawxsluakhukfals
oatpuskfhultuottl,uclaellkhultufqhuoatuakclgkccgrmuNskqunkuifpkufyakfcl
fxfwq,ulskruofikhulskuawdka,uclfp khulskwauokkl,uqthhkhulskwaustaqkh
skfhc,ucnfrkhulskwaucifagkluythwkc;ulskrucsttvultnfahculskuowkaik
awdka-hkptqufuyeqisutouygfivuokflskac,ufupfqxrucvwqunwlsufu kqhkql
lfwg--ctpklswqxulsflugttvkhufuhawkhuxteah;ulskrucstelkhu kawthwifggr
ltxklskauclawqxcutoufpfjwqxuntahculsfluakckpygkhuqtucteqhcutousepfq
gfqxefxk;ufqhulskuhkk upeapeacutoulskuiatnh,uwqlkaae lkhucehhkqgr,unkak
gwvkulskuakc tqckcutouctpkucflfqwiugwlfqrm

“NkusfhuifaawkhuVealjuwqltulsku wgtl-steck:ulskakunfcuptakufwaulskakm
Grwqxutqulskuiteis,uskuclfakhulsatexsulskut kqucsellkamuLskakunfcufq
khhruwqulskupfccutousepfquythwkc,ufqhulskuntpfqunwlsuskgpklkhuskfhufqh
lfnqruiskkvcuaecskhutelultulskudkaruyawqvutoulskuclakfpmuCsku eluteluska
sfqhc,ucstelkhuctpklswqx,ufqhufggulsflunwghuptyulttvue ulskucsteluwquf
atfawqxuistaecutoufalwiegflkh,uaf wh,uyakflsgkccuellkafqikm

“'Hturteueqhkaclfqhulswc?'uWufcvkhm

“Skuvk lutqugttvwqxutelu fclupkunwlsuowkar,ugtqxwqxukrkc,unwlsufupwqxgkh
kb akccwtqutounwcloegqkccufqhusflkmuSkupfhkuqtufqcnka,uyeluWucfnuf
cpwgk,ufucpwgkutouwqhkowqfygkupkfqwqx,uf  kfautquswcuitgteagkccugw c
lsflufuptpkqlufolkaulnwliskhuitqdegcwdkgrmu'HtuWuqtl?'uskucfwhucgtngr,
xfc wqx,ufcuwoulskuntahcusfhuykkqultaqutelutouswpuyrufuce kaqfleafg
 tnkam

“Wu eggkhulskuclawqxutoulskunswclgk,ufqhuWuhwhulswcuykifeckuWucfnulsk
 wgxawpcutquhkivuxkllwqxutelulskwauawogkcunwlsufqufwautoufqlwiw flwqxuf
.tggrugfavmuFlulskucehhkquciakkisulskakunfcufuptdkpkqlutoufy.kilulkaata
lsatexsulsflunkhxkhupfccutouythwkcmu'Htq'l!uhtq'lurteuoawxslkqulskp
fnfr,'uiawkhuctpkutqkutquhkivuhwcitqctgflkgrmuWu eggkhulskuclawqx
lwpkufolkaulwpkmuLskruyatvkufqhuafq,ulskrugkf kh,ulskruiateiskh,ulskr
cnkadkh,ulskruhthxkhulskuogrwqxulkaatautoulskucteqhmuLskulsakkuakhuisf c
sfhuofggkquogfl,uofikuhtnqutqulskucstak,ufculstexsulskrusfhuykkqucstl
hkfhmuTqgrulskuyfayfatecufqhuce kayuntpfquhwhuqtluctupeisufcuogwqis,
fqhuclakliskhulafxwifggruskauyfakufapcufolkauecutdkaulskuctpyakufqh
xgwllkawqxuawdkam

“Fqhulskqulsfluwpykiwgkuiatnhuhtnqutqulskuhkivuclfalkhulskwaugwllgkuoeq,
fqhuWuiteghuckkuqtlswqxuptakuotaucptvkm

“Lskuyatnquieaakqluafqucnwolgrutelutoulskuskfalutouhfavqkcc,uykfawqxuec
htnqultnfahculskuckfunwlsulnwikulskuc kkhutouteaue nfahu atxakcc;ufqh
Vealj'cugwokunfcuaeqqwqxucnwolgr,ultt,ukyywqx,ukyywqxutelutouswcuskfal
wqltulskuckfutouwqkbtafygkulwpkmuLskupfqfxkaunfcudkaru gfiwh,uskusfh
qtudwlfgufqbwklwkcuqtn,uskulttvuecuytlsuwqunwlsufuitp akskqcwdkufqh
cflwcowkhuxgfqik:ulsku'foofwa'usfhuitpkutooufcunkggufcuiteghuykunwcskhm
Wucfnulskulwpkuf  atfiswqxunskquWunteghuykugkolufgtqkutoulsku falruto
'eqcteqhupklsthm'uLsku wgxawpcugttvkhue tqupkunwlsuhwcofdteamuWunfc,
ctultuc kfv,uqepykakhunwlsulskuhkfhmuWluwcuclafqxkustnuWufiik lkhulswc
eqotakckkqu falqkacsw ,ulswcuistwikutouqwxslpfakcuotaikhue tqupkuwqulsk
lkqkyatecugfqhuwqdfhkhuyrulskckupkfqufqhuxakkhru sfqltpcm

“VealjuhwciteackhmuFudtwik!ufudtwik!uWluafqxuhkk ultulskudkarugfclmuWl
ceadwdkhuswcuclakqxlsultuswhkuwqulskupfxqwowikqluotghcutoukgtzekqikulsk
yfaakquhfavqkccutouswcuskfalmuTs,uskuclaexxgkh!uskuclaexxgkh!uLskunfclkc
touswcunkfaruyafwqunkakusfeqlkhuyrucsfhtnruwpfxkcuqtn--wpfxkcutounkfgls
fqhuofpkuakdtgdwqxutyckzewtecgruateqhuswcueqkblwqxewcsfygkuxwolutouqtygk
fqhugtolrukb akccwtqmuPruWqlkqhkh,upruclflwtq,upruifakka,upr
whkfc--lskckunkakulskucey.kilcuotaulskutiifcwtqfguellkafqikcutoukgkdflkh
ckqlwpkqlcmuLskucsfhkutoulskutawxwqfguVealjuoakzekqlkhulskuykhcwhkuto
lskustggtnucsfp,unstckuoflkuwlunfcultuykuyeawkhu akckqlgruwqulskuptegh
tou awpkdfgukfalsmuYeluytlsulskuhwfytgwiugtdkufqhulskueqkfalsgrusflkuto
lskuprclkawkcuwlusfhu kqklaflkhuotexsluotaulsku tcckccwtqutoulsfl
ctegucflwflkhunwlsu awpwlwdkukptlwtqc,ufdwhutougrwqxuofpk,utoucsfp
hwclwqilwtq,utoufggulskuf  kfafqikcutouceiikccufqhu tnkam

“Ctpklwpkcuskunfcuitqlkp lwygruiswghwcsmuSkuhkcwakhultusfdkuvwqxcupkkl
swpufluafwgnfr-clflwtqcutquswcuakleaquoatpuctpkuxsfclgruQtnskak,unskak
skuwqlkqhkhultufiitp gwcsuxakflulswqxcmu'Rteucstnulskpurteusfdkuwqurte
ctpklswqxulsfluwcuakfggru atowlfygk,ufqhulskqulskakunwgguykuqtugwpwlcult
lskuakitxqwlwtqutourteaufywgwlr,'uskunteghucfrmu'Touiteackurteupeclulfvk
ifakutoulskuptlwdkc--awxsluptlwdkc--fgnfrcm'uLskugtqxuakfiskculsflunkak
gwvkutqkufqhulskucfpkuakfis,uptqtltqtecuykqhculsflunkakukbfilgrufgwvk,
cgw  khu fclulskuclkfpkaunwlsulskwaupeglwlehkutouckiegfaulakkcugttvwqx
 flwkqlgrufolkaulswcuxawpruoafxpkqlutoufqtlskauntagh,ulskuotakaeqqka
touisfqxk,utouitqzekcl,utoulafhk,utoupfccfiakc,utouygkccwqxcmuWugttvkh
fskfh-- wgtlwqxmu'Igtckulskucsellka,'ucfwhuVealjucehhkqgrutqkuhfr;u'W
ifq'luykfaultugttvuflulswcm'uWuhwhuctmuLskakunfcufucwgkqikmu'Ts,uyeluW
nwggunawqxurteauskfalurkl!'uskuiawkhuflulskuwqdwcwygkunwghkaqkccm

“Nkuyatvkuhtnq--fcuWusfhukb kilkh--fqhusfhultugwkue uotauak fwacuflulsk
skfhutoufquwcgfqhmuLswcuhkgfrunfculskuowaclulswqxulsflucsttvuVealj'c
itqowhkqikmuTqkuptaqwqxuskuxfdkupkufu fivklutou f kacufqhuf
 stltxaf s--lskugtlulwkhultxklskaunwlsufucstk-clawqxmu'Vkk ulswcuota
pk,'uskucfwhmu'Lswcuqtbwtecuottg'u(pkfqwqxulskupfqfxka)u'wcuif fygkuto
 arwqxuwqltupruytbkcunskquWufpuqtlugttvwqxm'uWqulskufolkaqttquWucfnuswpm
Skunfcugrwqxutquswcuyfivunwlsuigtckhukrkc,ufqhuWunwlshaknuzewklgr,uyeluW
skfahuswpupellka,u'Gwdkuawxslgr,uhwk,uhwkmmm'uWugwclkqkhmuLskakunfc
qtlswqxuptakmuNfcuskuakskfacwqxuctpkuc kkisuwquswcucgkk ,utaunfcuwluf
oafxpkqlutoufu safckuoatpuctpkuqknc f kaufalwigk?uSkusfhuykkqunawlwqx
otaulsku f kacufqhupkfqlultuhtuctufxfwq,u'otaulskuoealskawqxutoupr
whkfcmuWl'cufuhelrm'

“Swcunfcufquwp kqklafygkuhfavqkccmuWugttvkhufluswpufcurteu kkauhtnqufl
fupfqunstuwcugrwqxuflulskuytlltputoufu akiw wikunskakulskucequqkdka
cswqkcmuYeluWusfhuqtlupeisulwpkultuxwdkuswp,uykifeckuWunfcuskg wqxulsk
kqxwqk-hawdkaultulfvkultu wkikculskugkfvruirgwqhkac,ultuclafwxslkquf
ykqluitqqkilwqx-ath,ufqhuwqutlskauceisupfllkacmuWugwdkhuwqufq
wqokaqfgupkccutouaecl,uowgwqxc,uqelc,uytglc,uc fqqkac,usfppkac,
afliskl-hawggc--lswqxcuWufytpwqflk,uykifeckuWuhtq'luxklutqunwlsulskpmuW
lkqhkhulskugwllgkuotaxkunkuotaleqflkgrusfhufytfah;uWultwgkhunkfawgruwquf
nakliskhuciaf -skf --eqgkccuWusfhulskucsfvkculttuyfhultuclfqhm

“TqkukdkqwqxuitpwqxuwqunwlsufuifqhgkuWunfcuclfalgkhultuskfauswpucfruf
gwllgkulakpegtecgr,u'Wufpugrwqxuskakuwqulskuhfavunfwlwqxuotauhkflsm'
LskugwxslunfcunwlswqufuottlutouswcukrkcmuWuotaikhuprckgoultupeapea,u'Ts,
qtqckqck!'ufqhucltthutdkauswpufcuwoulafqcowbkhm

“Fqrlswqxuf  atfiswqxulskuisfqxkulsfluifpkutdkauswcuokfleakcuWusfdk
qkdkauckkquykotak,ufqhust kuqkdkaultuckkufxfwqmuTs,uWunfcq'lulteiskhm
WunfcuofciwqflkhmuWlunfcufculstexsufudkwgusfhuykkquakqlmuWucfnutqulsfl
wdtaruofikulskukb akccwtqutouctpyaku awhk,utouaelsgkccu tnka,utouiafdkq
lkaata--toufquwqlkqckufqhust kgkccuhkc fwamuHwhuskugwdkuswcugwokufxfwq
wqukdkaruhklfwgutouhkcwak,ulkp lflwtq,ufqhuceaakqhkauheawqxulsfluce akpk
ptpkqlutouitp gklkuvqtngkhxk?uSkuiawkhuwqufunswc kaufluctpkuwpfxk,ufl
ctpkudwcwtq--skuiawkhutelulnwik,ufuiarulsflunfcuqtuptakulsfqufuyakfls:

“'Lskustaata!uLskustaata!'

“WuygknulskuifqhgkutelufqhugkolulskuifywqmuLsku wgxawpcunkakuhwqwqxuwq
lskupkcc-attp,ufqhuWulttvupru gfikut  tcwlkulskupfqfxka,unstugwolkhuswc
krkcultuxwdkupkufuzekclwtqwqxuxgfqik,unswisuWuceiikccoeggruwxqtakhm
Skugkfqkhuyfiv,uckakqk,unwlsulsflu kiegwfaucpwgkutouswcuckfgwqxulsk
eqkb akcckhuhk lscutouswcupkfqqkccmuFuitqlwqetecucstnkautoucpfgguogwkc
clakfpkhue tqulskugfp ,ue tqulskuigtls,ue tquteausfqhcufqhuofikcm
Cehhkqgrulskupfqfxka'cuytru eluswcuwqctgkqluygfivuskfhuwqulskuhttanfr,
fqhucfwhuwqufultqkutouciflswqxuitqlkp l:

“'PwclfsuVealj--skuhkfhm'

“Fggulsku wgxawpcuaecskhutelultuckkmuWuakpfwqkh,ufqhunkqlutqunwlsupr
hwqqkamuWuykgwkdkuWunfcuitqcwhkakhuyaelfggruifggtecmuStnkdka,uWuhwhuqtl
kflupeismuLskakunfcufugfp uwqulskak--gwxsl,uhtq'lurteuvqtn--fqhutelcwhk
wlunfcuctuykfclgr,uykfclgruhfavmuWunkqluqtuptakuqkfaulskuakpfavfygkupfq
nstusfhu atqteqikhufu.ehxpkqlue tqulskufhdkqleakcutouswcuctegutqulswc
kfalsmuLskudtwikunfcuxtqkmuNsflukgckusfhuykkqulskak?uYeluWufputouiteack
fnfakulsfluqkbluhfrulsku wgxawpcuyeawkhuctpklswqxuwqufupehhrustgkm

“Fqhulskqulskrudkaruqkfagruyeawkhupkm

“Stnkdka,ufcurteuckk,uWuhwhuqtluxtultu.twquVealjulskakufqhulskqmuWuhwh
qtlmuWuakpfwqkhultuhakfpulskuqwxslpfakutelultulskukqh,ufqhultucstnupr
gtrfglrultuVealjutqikuptakmuHkclwqrmuPruhkclwqr!uHatggulswqxugwok
wc--lsfluprclkawtecufaafqxkpkqlutoupkaiwgkccugtxwiuotaufuoelwgku ea tckm
Lskuptclurteuifqust kuoatpuwluwcuctpkuvqtngkhxkutourteackgo--lsfluitpkc
lttugflk--fuiat utoueqkblwqxewcsfygkuakxaklcmuWusfdkunakclgkhunwls
hkflsmuWluwculskuptclueqkbiwlwqxuitqlkclurteuifquwpfxwqkmuWlulfvkcu gfik
wqufquwp fg fygkuxakrqkcc,unwlsuqtlswqxueqhkaottl,unwlsuqtlswqxufateqh,
nwlsteluc kilfltac,unwlsteluigfptea,unwlsteluxgtar,unwlstelulskuxakfl
hkcwakutoudwiltar,unwlstelulskuxakfluokfautouhkokfl,uwqufucwivgr
flptc skakutoulk whucik lwiwcp,unwlstelupeisuykgwkouwqurteautnquawxsl,
fqhuclwggugkccuwqulsflutourteaufhdkacfarmuWouceisuwculskuotaputo
eglwpflkunwchtp,ulskqugwokuwcufuxakflkauawhhgkulsfquctpkutoueculswqvuwl
ltuykmuWunfcunwlswqufusfwa'cuyakfhlsutoulskugfclut  taleqwlruota
 atqteqikpkql,ufqhuWuoteqhunwlsusepwgwflwtqulsflu atyfygruWunteghusfdk
qtlswqxultucfrmuLswcuwculskuakfctqunsruWufoowapulsfluVealjunfcuf
akpfavfygkupfqmuSkusfhuctpklswqxultucfrmuSkucfwhuwlmuCwqikuWusfhu kk kh
tdkaulskukhxkuprckgo,uWueqhkaclfqhuykllkaulskupkfqwqxutouswcuclfak,ulsfl
iteghuqtluckkulskuogfpkutoulskuifqhgk,uyelunfcunwhkukqtexsultukpyafik
lskunstgkueqwdkack,u wkaiwqxukqtexsultu kqklaflkufggulskuskfalculsfl
ykfluwqulskuhfavqkccmuSkusfhuceppkhue --skusfhu.ehxkhmu'Lskustaata!'uSk
nfcufuakpfavfygkupfqmuFolkaufgg,ulswcunfculskukb akccwtqutouctpkuctaluto
ykgwko;uwlusfhuifqhtea,uwlusfhuitqdwilwtq,uwlusfhufudwyaflwqxuqtlkuto
akdtgluwquwlcunswc ka,uwlusfhulskuf  fggwqxuofikutoufuxgwp ckh
laels--lskuclafqxkuitppwqxgwqxutouhkcwakufqhusflkmuFqhuwluwcuqtluprutnq
kblakpwlruWuakpkpykauykcl--fudwcwtqutouxakrqkccunwlsteluotapuowggkh
nwlsu srcwifgu fwq,ufqhufuifakgkccuitqlkp luotaulskukdfqkcikqikutoufgg
lswqxc--kdkqutoulswcu fwquwlckgomuQt!uWluwcuswcukblakpwlrulsfluWuckkpult
sfdkugwdkhulsatexsmuLaek,uskusfhupfhkulsflugfcluclawhk,uskusfhuclk  kh
tdkaulskukhxk,unswgkuWusfhuykkqu kapwllkhultuhafnuyfivupruskcwlflwqx
ottlmuFqhu kasf cuwqulswcuwculskunstgkuhwookakqik;u kasf cufggulsk
nwchtp,ufqhufggulaels,ufqhufggucwqikawlr,ufaku.ecluitp akcckhuwqltulsfl
wqf  akiwfygkuptpkqlutoulwpkuwqunswisunkuclk utdkaulskulsakcstghutoulsk
wqdwcwygkmu kasf c!uWugwvkultulswqvupruceppwqx-e unteghuqtlusfdkuykkquf
ntahutouifakgkccuitqlkp lmuYkllkauswcuiar--peisuykllkamuWlunfcufq
foowapflwtq,ufuptafgudwiltaru fwhuotauyruwqqepkafygkuhkokflc,uyr
fytpwqfygkulkaatac,uyrufytpwqfygkucflwcofilwtqcmuYeluwlunfcufudwiltar!
LsfluwcunsruWusfdkuakpfwqkhugtrfgultuVealjultulskugfcl,ufqhukdkquykrtqh,
nskqufugtqxulwpkufolkauWuskfahutqikuptak,uqtluswcutnqudtwik,uyelulsk
kistutouswcupfxqwowikqlukgtzekqikulsatnqultupkuoatpufuctegufc
lafqcgeikqlgru eakufcufuigwooutouiarclfgm

“Qt,ulskruhwhuqtluyearupk,ulstexsulskakuwcufu kawthutoulwpkunswisuW
akpkpykaupwclwgr,unwlsufucsehhkawqxuntqhka,ugwvkufu fccfxkulsatexsuctpk
wqitqikwdfygkuntaghulsflusfhuqtust kuwquwlufqhuqtuhkcwakmuWuoteqhuprckgo
yfivuwqulskuck egisafguiwlruakckqlwqxulskucwxslutou kt gkuseaarwqx
lsatexsulskuclakklcultuowgisufugwllgkuptqkruoatpukfisutlska,ultuhkdtea
lskwauwqofptecuittvkar,ultuxeg ulskwaueqnstgkctpkuykka,ultuhakfpulskwa
wqcwxqwowifqlufqhucwggruhakfpcmuLskrulakc fcckhue tquprulstexslcmuLskr
nkakuwqlaehkacunstckuvqtngkhxkutougwokunfcultupkufquwaawlflwqxu aklkqik,
ykifeckuWuokgluctuceakulskruiteghuqtlu tccwygruvqtnulskulswqxcuWuvqknm
Lskwauykfawqx,unswisunfcucwp grulskuykfawqxutouitpptq gfikuwqhwdwhefgc
xtwqxufytelulskwauyecwqkccuwqulskufcceafqikutou kaokilucfoklr,unfc
tookqcwdkultupkugwvkulskutelafxktecuogfeqlwqxcutouotggruwqulskuofikuto
fuhfqxkauwluwcueqfygkultuitp akskqhmuWusfhuqtu falwiegfauhkcwakult
kqgwxslkqulskp,uyeluWusfhuctpkuhwoowieglruwquakclafwqwqxuprckgouoatp
gfexswqxuwqulskwauofikcuctuoeggutoucle whuwp talfqikmuWuhfakcfruWunfc
qtludkarunkgguflulsflulwpkmuWultllkakhufytelulskuclakklc--lskakunkak
dfawtecufoofwacultuckllgk--xawqqwqxuywllkagruflu kaokilgruakc kilfygk
 kactqcmuWufhpwlupruyksfdwteaunfcuwqkbiecfygk,uyelulskquprulkp kafleak
nfcuckghtpuqtapfguwqulskckuhfrcmuPruhkfaufeql'cukqhkfdteacultu'qeackue 
pruclakqxls'uckkpkhufgltxklskauykcwhkulskupfavmuWlunfcuqtlupruclakqxls
lsflunfqlkhuqeacwqx,uwlunfcupruwpfxwqflwtqulsflunfqlkhucttlswqxmuWuvk l
lskuyeqhgkutou f kacuxwdkqupkuyruVealj,uqtluvqtnwqxukbfilgrunsflultuht
nwlsuwlmuSwcuptlskausfhuhwkhugflkgr,unfliskhutdka,ufcuWunfcultgh,uyr
swcuWqlkqhkhmuFuigkfq-csfdkhupfq,unwlsufqutoowiwfgupfqqkaufqhunkfawqx
xtgh-awppkhuc kilfigkc,uifggkhutqupkutqkuhfrufqhupfhkuwqzewawkc,ufl
owacluiwaiewltec,ufolkanfahcucefdkgru akccwqx,ufytelunsfluskunfcu gkfckh
ltuhkqtpwqflkuikalfwqu'htiepkqlcm'uWunfcuqtlucea awckh,uykifeckuWusfh
sfhulntuatncunwlsulskupfqfxkautqulskucey.kilutelulskakmuWusfhuakoeckh
ltuxwdkue ulskucpfggkcluciaf utelutoulsflu fivfxk,ufqhuWulttvulskucfpk
fllwlehkunwlsulskuc kilfigkhupfqmuSkuykifpkuhfavgrupkqfiwqxuflugfcl,
fqhunwlsupeisuskflufaxekhulsflulskuItp fqrusfhulskuawxslultukdkaruywluto
wqotapflwtqufyteluwlcu'lkaawltawkcm'uFqhucfwhusk,u'PamuVealj'c
vqtngkhxkutoueqkb gtakhuakxwtqcupeclusfdkuykkquqkikccfawgrukblkqcwdk
fqhu kiegwfa--tnwqxultuswcuxakflufywgwlwkcufqhultulskuhk gtafygk
iwaiepclfqikcuwqunswisuskusfhuykkqu gfikh:ulskakotak--'uWufcceakhuswp
PamuVealj'cuvqtngkhxk,ustnkdkaukblkqcwdk,uhwhuqtluykfaue tqulsku atygkpc
touitppkaikutaufhpwqwclaflwtqmuSkuwqdtvkhulskqulskuqfpkutouciwkqikmu'Wl
nteghuykufquwqifgiegfygkugtccuwo,'uklim,uklimuWutookakhuswpulskuak tal
tqulsku'Ce  akccwtqutouCfdfxkuIecltpc,'unwlsulsku tclciaw lepultaq
toomuSkulttvuwlue ukfxkagr,uyelukqhkhuyrucqwoowqxufluwlunwlsufqufwa
touitqlkp lmu'Lswcuwcuqtlunsflunkusfhufuawxslultukb kil,'uskuakpfavkhm
'Kb kiluqtlswqxukgck,'uWucfwhmu'Lskakufakutqgru awdflkugkllkacm'uSk
nwlshaknue tquctpkulsakflutougkxfgu atikkhwqxc,ufqhuWucfnuswpuqtuptak;
yelufqtlskauokggtn,uifggwqxuswpckgouVealj'cuitecwq,uf  kfakhulntuhfrc
gflka,ufqhunfcufqbwtecultuskfaufggulskuhklfwgcufyteluswcuhkfauakgflwdk'c
gfcluptpkqlcmuWqiwhkqlfggruskuxfdkupkultueqhkaclfqhulsfluVealjusfh
ykkqukcckqlwfggrufuxakflupecwiwfqmu'Lskakunfculskupfvwqxutoufquwppkqck
ceiikcc,'ucfwhulskupfq,unstunfcufqutaxfqwcl,uWuykgwkdk,unwlsugfqvuxakr
sfwauogtnwqxutdkaufuxakfcruitfl-itggfamuWusfhuqtuakfctqultuhteyl
swcuclflkpkql;ufqhultulswcuhfruWufpueqfygkultucfrunsflunfcuVealj'c
 atokccwtq,unsklskauskukdkausfhufqr--nswisunfculskuxakflkclutouswc
lfgkqlcmuWusfhulfvkquswpuotaufu fwqlkaunstunatlkuotaulsku f kac,utaukgck
otaufu.teaqfgwclunstuiteghu fwql--yelukdkqulskuitecwqu(nstulttvucqeoo
heawqxulskuwqlkadwkn)uiteghuqtlulkggupkunsfluskusfhuykkq--kbfilgrmuSk
nfcufueqwdkacfguxkqwec--tqulsflu twqluWufxakkhunwlsulskutghuisf ,unst
lskake tquygknuswcuqtckuqtwcwgruwqltufugfaxkuitlltqusfqhvkaiswkoufqh
nwlshaknuwquckqwgkufxwlflwtq,uykfawqxutoouctpkuofpwgrugkllkacufqh
pkptafqhfunwlsteluwp talfqikmuEglwpflkgrufu.teaqfgwclufqbwtecultuvqtn
ctpklswqxutoulskuoflkutouswcu'hkfauitggkfxek'uleaqkhue muLswcudwcwlta
wqotapkhupkuVealj'cu at kauc skakutexslultusfdkuykkqu tgwlwicu'tqulsk
 t egfaucwhkm'uSkusfhuoeaaruclafwxslukrkyatnc,uyawclgrusfwauiat  kh
cstal,ufqukrkxgfccutqufuyatfhuawyytq,ufqh,uykitpwqxukb fqcwdk,uitqokcckh
swcut wqwtqulsfluVealjuakfggruiteghq'lunawlkufuywl--'yeluskfdkqc!ustn
lsflupfquiteghulfgvmuSkukgkilawowkhugfaxkupkklwqxcmuSkusfhuofwls--htq'l
rteuckk?--skusfhulskuofwlsmuSkuiteghuxkluswpckgoultuykgwkdk
fqrlswqx--fqrlswqxmuSkunteghusfdkuykkqufuc gkqhwhugkfhkautoufqukblakpk
 falrm'u'Nsflu falr?'uWufcvkhmu'Fqru falr,'ufqcnkakhulskutlskamu'Sk
nfcufq--fq--kblakpwclm'uHwhuWuqtlulswqvuct?uWufcckqlkhmuHwhuWuvqtn,usk
fcvkh,unwlsufucehhkquogfcsutouieawtcwlr,u'nsfluwlunfculsflusfhuwqheikh
swpultuxtutelulskak?'u'Rkc,'ucfwhuW,ufqhuotalsnwlsusfqhkhuswpulsk
ofptecuAk taluotau eygwiflwtq,uwouskulstexsluowlmuSkuxgfqikhulsatexsuwl
seaawkhgr,upepygwqxufggulskulwpk,u.ehxkhu'wlunteghuht,'ufqhulttvuswpckgo
toounwlsulswcu geqhkam

“LsecuWunfcugkoluflugfclunwlsufucgwpu fivklutougkllkacufqhulskuxwag'c
 talafwlmuCskuclaeivupkufcuykfelwoeg--Wupkfqucskusfhufuykfelwoeg
kb akccwtqmuWuvqtnulsflulskuceqgwxsluifquykupfhkultugwk,ultt,urklutqk
okglulsfluqtupfqw egflwtqutougwxslufqhu tckuiteghusfdkuitqdkrkhulsk
hkgwiflkucsfhkutoulaelsoegqkccue tqulstckuokfleakcmuCskuckkpkhuakfhrult
gwclkqunwlstelupkqlfguakckadflwtq,unwlstelucec wiwtq,unwlstelufulstexsl
otauskackgomuWuitqigehkhuWunteghuxtufqhuxwdkuskauyfivuskau talafwl
fqhulstckugkllkacuprckgomuIeawtcwlr?uRkc;ufqhufgctuctpkutlskauokkgwqx
 kasf cmuFggulsflusfhuykkquVealj'cusfhu fcckhutelutouprusfqhc:uswcucteg,
swcuythr,uswcuclflwtq,uswcu gfqc,uswcuwdtar,uswcuifakkamuLskakuakpfwqkh
tqgruswcupkptarufqhuswcuWqlkqhkh--fqhuWunfqlkhultuxwdkulsflue ,ultt,
ltulsku fcl,uwqufunfr--ltuceaakqhkau kactqfggrufggulsfluakpfwqkhutouswp
nwlsupkultulsflutygwdwtqunswisuwculskugfcluntahutouteauitpptquoflkmuW
htq'luhkokqhuprckgomuWusfhuqtuigkfau kaik lwtqutounsfluwlunfcuWuakfggr
nfqlkhmu kasf cuwlunfcufquwp egckutoueqitqciwtecugtrfglr,utaulsk
oegowgpkqlutoutqkutoulstckuwatqwiuqkikccwlwkculsflugeavuwqulskuofilcuto
sepfqukbwclkqikmuWuhtq'luvqtnmuWuifq'lulkggmuYeluWunkqlm

“Wulstexsluswcupkptarunfcugwvkulskutlskaupkptawkcutoulskuhkfhulsfl
fiiepegflkuwqukdkarupfq'cugwok--fudfxekuwp akccutqulskuyafwqutoucsfhtnc
lsflusfhuofggkqutquwluwqulskwaucnwolufqhuowqfgu fccfxk;uyeluykotakulsk
swxsufqhu tqhkatecuhtta,uyklnkkqulskulfggusteckcutoufuclakklufcuclwgg
fqhuhkitatecufcufunkgg-vk lufggkruwqufuikpklkar,uWusfhufudwcwtqutouswp
tqulskuclakliska,ut kqwqxuswcuptelsudtafiwtecgr,ufcuwoultuhkdteaufggulsk
kfalsunwlsufgguwlcupfqvwqhmuSkugwdkhulskquykotakupk;uskugwdkhufcupeis
fcuskusfhukdkaugwdkh--fucsfhtnuwqcflwfygkutouc gkqhwhuf  kfafqikc,uto
oawxsloeguakfgwlwkc;ufucsfhtnuhfavkaulsfqulskucsfhtnutoulskuqwxsl,ufqh
haf khuqtygruwqulskuotghcutoufuxtaxktecukgtzekqikmuLskudwcwtquckkpkhult
kqlkaulskusteckunwlsupk--lskuclakliska,ulsku sfqltp-ykfakac,ulskunwgh
iatnhutoutykhwkqluntacsw  kac,ulskuxgttputoulskuotakclc,ulskuxgwllka
toulskuakfisuyklnkkqulskupeavruykqhc,ulskuykflutoulskuhaep,uakxegfaufqh
peoogkhugwvkulskuykflwqxutoufuskfal--lskuskfalutoufuitqzekawqxuhfavqkccm
Wlunfcufuptpkqlutoulawep suotaulskunwghkaqkcc,ufquwqdfhwqxufqhudkqxkoeg
aecsunswis,uwluckkpkhultupk,uWunteghusfdkultuvkk uyfivufgtqkuotaulsk
cfgdflwtqutoufqtlskauctegmuFqhulskupkptarutounsfluWusfhuskfahuswpucfr
fofaulskak,unwlsulskustaqkhucsf kcuclwaawqxuflupruyfiv,uwqulskuxgtnuto
owakc,unwlswqulsku flwkqluntthc,ulstckuyatvkqu safckcuifpkuyfivult
pk,unkakuskfahufxfwquwqulskwautpwqtecufqhulkaaworwqxucwp gwiwlrmuW
akpkpykakhuswcufy.kilu gkfhwqx,uswcufy.kilulsakflc,ulskuitgtccfgucifgk
touswcudwgkuhkcwakc,ulskupkfqqkcc,ulskultapkql,ulskulkp kcletecufqxewcs
touswcuctegmuFqhugflkautquWuckkpkhultuckkuswcuitggkilkhugfqxewhupfqqka,
nskquskucfwhutqkuhfr,u'LswcugtlutouwdtaruqtnuwcuakfggrupwqkmuLskuItp fqr
hwhuqtlu fruotauwlmuWuitggkilkhuwluprckgouflufudkaruxakflu kactqfguawcvm
WufpufoafwhulskrunwggularultuigfwpuwlufculskwaculstexsmuS'pmuWluwcuf
hwoowiegluifckmuNsfluhturteulswqvuWutexslultuht--akcwcl?uKs?uWunfqluqt
ptakulsfqu.eclwikm'mmmuSkunfqlkhuqtuptakulsfqu.eclwik--qtuptakulsfq
.eclwikmuWuafqxulskuykgguykotakufupfstxfqruhttautqulskuowacluogtta,ufqh
nswgkuWunfwlkhuskuckkpkhultuclfakuflupkutelutoulskuxgfccru fqkg--clfak
nwlsulsflunwhkufqhuwppkqckuclfakukpyafiwqx,uitqhkpqwqx,ugtflswqxufggulsk
eqwdkackmuWuckkpkhultuskfaulskunswc kakhuiar,u“Lskustaata!uLskustaata!”

“LskuhecvunfcuofggwqxmuWusfhultunfwluwqufugtolruhafnwqx-attpunwlsulsakk
gtqxunwqhtncuoatpuogttaultuikwgwqxulsflunkakugwvkulsakkugepwqtecufqh
ykhaf khuitgepqcmuLskuykqluxwglugkxcufqhuyfivcutoulskuoeaqwleakucstqkuwq
wqhwclwqiluieadkcmuLskulfggupfaygkuowak gfikusfhufuitghufqhuptqepkqlfg
nswlkqkccmuFuxafqhu wfqtucltthupfccwdkgruwqufuitaqka;unwlsuhfavuxgkfpc
tqulskuogfluceaofikcugwvkufuctpyakufqhu tgwcskhucfait sfxecmuFuswxsuhtta
t kqkh--igtckhmuWuatckm

“Cskuifpkuotanfah,ufgguwquygfiv,unwlsufu fgkuskfh,uogtflwqxultnfahc
pkuwqulskuhecvmuCskunfcuwqupteaqwqxmuWlunfcuptakulsfqufurkfaucwqikuswc
hkfls,uptakulsfqufurkfaucwqikulskuqkncuifpk;ucskuckkpkhufculstexsucsk
nteghuakpkpykaufqhupteaquotakdkamuCskulttvuytlsuprusfqhcuwquskacufqh
peapeakh,u'Wusfhuskfahurteunkakuitpwqxm'uWuqtlwikhucskunfcuqtludkar
rteqx--WupkfquqtluxwagwcsmuCskusfhufupfleakuif fiwlruotauowhkgwlr,uota
ykgwko,uotauceookawqxmuLskuattpuckkpkhultusfdkuxatnquhfavka,ufcuwoufgg
lskucfhugwxslutoulskuigtehrukdkqwqxusfhulfvkquakoexkutquskauotakskfhm
Lswcuofwausfwa,ulswcu fgkudwcfxk,ulswcu eakuyatn,uckkpkhuceaateqhkhuyr
fqufcsrusfgtuoatpunswisulskuhfavukrkcugttvkhuteluflupkmuLskwauxgfqikunfc
xewgkgkcc,u atoteqh,uitqowhkql,ufqhulaecloegmuCskuifaawkhuskauctaatnoeg
skfhufculstexsucskunkaku atehutoulsfluctaatn,ufculstexsucskunteghucfr,
'W--Wufgtqkuvqtnustnultupteaquotauswpufcuskuhkckadkcm'uYelunswgkunkunkak
clwggucsfvwqxusfqhc,uceisufugttvutoufnoeguhkctgflwtquifpkue tquska
ofikulsfluWu kaikwdkhucskunfcutqkutoulstckuiakfleakculsflufakuqtlulsk
 gfrlswqxcutouLwpkmuOtauskauskusfhuhwkhutqgrurkclkahfrmuFqh,uyru.tdk!
lskuwp akccwtqunfcuctu tnkaoegulsfluotaupk,ultt,uskuckkpkhultusfdkuhwkh
tqgrurkclkahfr--qfr,ulswcudkarupwqelkmuWucfnuskaufqhuswpuwqulskucfpk
wqclfqlutoulwpk--swcuhkflsufqhuskauctaatn--Wucfnuskauctaatnuwqulskudkar
ptpkqlutouswcuhkflsmuHturteueqhkaclfqh?uWucfnulskpultxklska--Wuskfah
lskpultxklskamuCskusfhucfwh,unwlsufuhkk uiflisutoulskuyakfls,u'Wusfdk
ceadwdkh'unswgkupruclafwqkhukfacuckkpkhultuskfauhwclwqilgr,upwqxgkhunwls
skaultqkutouhkc fwawqxuakxakl,ulskuceppwqxue unswc kautouswcuklkaqfg
itqhkpqflwtqmuWufcvkhuprckgounsfluWunfcuhtwqxulskak,unwlsufuckqcflwtq
tou fqwiuwqupruskfalufculstexsuWusfhuygeqhkakhuwqltufu gfikutouiaekgufqh
fyceahuprclkawkcuqtluowluotaufusepfquykwqxultuykstghmuCskuptlwtqkhupkult
fuisfwamuNkucfluhtnqmuWugfwhulsku fivkluxkqlgrutqulskugwllgkulfygk,ufqh
csku eluskausfqhutdkauwlmmmmu'Rteuvqknuswpunkgg,'ucskupeapeakh,ufolka
fuptpkqlutoupteaqwqxucwgkqikm

“'Wqlwpfiruxatncuzewivgrutelulskak,'uWucfwhmu'Wuvqknuswpufcunkggufcuwl
wcu tccwygkuotautqkupfqultuvqtnufqtlskam'

“'Fqhurteufhpwakhuswp,'ucskucfwhmu'Wlunfcuwp tccwygkultuvqtnuswpufqhuqtl
ltufhpwakuswpmuNfcuwl?'

“'Skunfcufuakpfavfygkupfq,'uWucfwh,ueqclkfhwgrmuLskquykotakulsk
f  kfgwqxuowbwlrutouskauxfjk,ulsfluckkpkhultunflisuotauptakuntahcutqupr
gw c,uWunkqlutq,u'Wlunfcuwp tccwygkuqtlult--'

“'Gtdkuswp,'ucskuowqwcskhukfxkagr,ucwgkqiwqxupkuwqltufquf  fggkh
hepyqkccmu'Stnulaek!ustnulaek!uYelunskqurteulswqvulsfluqtutqkuvqknuswp
ctunkggufcuW!uWusfhufgguswcuqtygkuitqowhkqikmuWuvqknuswpuykclm'

“'Rteuvqknuswpuykcl,'uWuak kflkhmuFqhu kasf cucskuhwhmuYelunwlsukdkar
ntahuc tvkqulskuattpunfcuxatnwqxuhfavka,ufqhutqgruskauotakskfh,ucpttls
fqhunswlk,uakpfwqkhuwggepwqkhuyrulskuwqkblwqxewcsfygkugwxslutouykgwko
fqhugtdkm

“'Rteunkakuswcuoawkqh,'ucskunkqlutqmu'Swcuoawkqh,'ucskuak kflkh,uf
gwllgkugtehkamu'Rteupeclusfdkuykkq,uwouskusfhuxwdkqurteulswc,ufqhuckql
rteultupkmuWuokkguWuifquc kfvulturte--fqhuts!uWupecluc kfvmuWunfql
rte--rteunstusfdkuskfahuswcugfcluntahc--ltuvqtnuWusfdkuykkquntalsruto
swpmmmmuWluwcuqtlu awhkmmmmuRkc!uWufpu atehultuvqtnuWueqhkacltth
swpuykllkaulsfqufqrutqkutqukfals--skultghupkuctuswpckgomuFqhucwqikuswc
ptlskauhwkhuWusfdkusfhuqtutqk--qtutqk--lt--lt--'

“WugwclkqkhmuLskuhfavqkccuhkk kqkhmuWunfcuqtlukdkquceakunsklskauskusfh
xwdkqupkulskuawxsluyeqhgkmuWuaflskaucec kiluskunfqlkhupkultulfvkuifak
toufqtlskauyflisutouswcu f kacunswis,ufolkauswcuhkfls,uWucfnulskupfqfxka
kbfpwqwqxueqhkaulskugfp muFqhulskuxwagulfgvkh,ukfcwqxuskau fwquwqulsk
ikalwlehkutouprucrp flsr;ucskulfgvkhufculswaclrupkquhawqvmuWusfhuskfah
lsfluskaukqxfxkpkqlunwlsuVealjusfhuykkquhwcf  atdkhuyruskau kt gkmuSk
nfcq'luawisukqtexsutauctpklswqxmuFqhuwqhkkhuWuhtq'luvqtnunsklskauskusfh
qtluykkqufu fe kaufgguswcugwokmuSkusfhuxwdkqupkuctpkuakfctqultuwqoka
lsfluwlunfcuswcuwp flwkqikutouitp faflwdku tdkalrulsfluhatdkuswputel
lskakm

“'mmmuNstunfcuqtluswcuoawkqhunstusfhuskfahuswpuc kfvutqik?'ucskunfc
cfrwqxmu'Skuhaknupkqultnfahcuswpuyrunsflunfcuykcluwqulskpm'uCskugttvkh
flupkunwlsuwqlkqcwlrmu'Wluwculskuxwolutoulskuxakfl,'ucskunkqlutq,ufqh
lskucteqhutouskaugtnudtwikuckkpkhultusfdkulskufiitp fqwpkqlutoufgg
lskutlskaucteqhc,uoeggutouprclkar,uhkctgflwtq,ufqhuctaatn,uWusfhukdka
skfah--lskuaw  gkutoulskuawdka,ulskuctexswqxutoulskulakkcucnfrkhuyr
lskunwqh,ulskupeapeacutoulskuiatnhc,ulskuofwqluawqxutouwqitp akskqcwygk
ntahcuiawkhuoatpufofa,ulskunswc kautoufudtwikuc kfvwqxuoatpuykrtqhulsk
lsakcstghutoufquklkaqfguhfavqkccmu'Yelurteusfdkuskfahuswp!uRteuvqtn!'
cskuiawkhm

“'Rkc,uWuvqtn,'uWucfwhunwlsuctpklswqxugwvkuhkc fwauwqupruskfal,uyel
ytnwqxupruskfhuykotakulskuofwlsulsflunfcuwquska,uykotakulsfluxakflufqh
cfdwqxuwggecwtqulsflucstqkunwlsufqueqkfalsgruxgtnuwqulskuhfavqkcc,uwq
lskulawep sfqluhfavqkccuoatpunswisuWuiteghuqtlusfdkuhkokqhkhuska--oatp
nswisuWuiteghuqtlukdkquhkokqhuprckgom

“'Nsflufugtccultupk--ltuec!'--cskuitaakilkhuskackgounwlsuykfelwoeg
xkqkatcwlr;ulskqufhhkhuwqufupeapea,u'Ltulskuntaghm'uYrulskugfcluxgkfpc
toulnwgwxsluWuiteghuckkulskuxgwllkautouskaukrkc,uoeggutoulkfac--toulkfac
lsflunteghuqtluofggm

“'Wusfdkuykkqudkarusf  r--dkaruotaleqflk--dkaru ateh,'ucskunkqlutqmu'Ltt
otaleqflkmuLttusf  ruotaufugwllgkunswgkmuFqhuqtnuWufpueqsf  ruota--ota
gwokm'

“Cskucltthue ;uskauofwausfwauckkpkhultuiflisufggulskuakpfwqwqxugwxsluwq
fuxgwppkautouxtghmuWuatck,ulttm

“'Fqhutoufggulswc,'ucskunkqlutqupteaqoeggr,u'toufgguswcu atpwck,ufqh
toufgguswcuxakflqkcc,utouswcuxkqkatecupwqh,utouswcuqtygkuskfal,uqtlswqx
akpfwqc--qtlswqxuyelufupkptarmuRteufqhuW--'

“'Nkucsfggufgnfrcuakpkpykauswp,'uWucfwhusfclwgrm

“'Qt!'ucskuiawkhmu'Wluwcuwp tccwygkulsflufggulswcucsteghuykugtcl--lsfl
ceisufugwokucsteghuykucfiawowikhultugkfdkuqtlswqx--yeluctaatnmuRte
vqtnunsfludfclu gfqcuskusfhmuWuvqknutoulskp,ultt--Wuiteghuqtlu kasf c
eqhkaclfqh--yelutlskacuvqknutoulskpmuCtpklswqxupecluakpfwqmuSwcuntahc,
flugkfcl,usfdkuqtluhwkhm'

“'Swcuntahcunwgguakpfwq,'uWucfwhm

“'Fqhuswcukbfp gk,'ucskunswc kakhultuskackgomu'Pkqugttvkhue ult
swp--swcuxtthqkccucstqkuwqukdkarufilmuSwcukbfp gk--'

“'Laek,'uWucfwh;u'swcukbfp gk,ulttmuRkc,uswcukbfp gkmuWuotaxtlulsflm'

“'YeluWuhtuqtlmuWuifqqtl--Wuifqqtluykgwkdk--qtlurklmuWuifqqtluykgwkdk
lsfluWucsfgguqkdkauckkuswpufxfwq,ulsfluqtythrunwgguckkuswpufxfwq,uqkdka,
qkdka,uqkdkam'

“Csku eluteluskaufapcufcuwoufolkaufuaklakflwqxuowxeak,uclakliswqxulskp
yfivufqhunwlsuigfc khu fgkusfqhcufiatcculskuofhwqxufqhuqfaatnucskkquto
lskunwqhtnmuQkdkauckkuswp!uWucfnuswpuigkfagrukqtexsulskqmuWucsfgguckk
lswcukgtzekqlu sfqltpufcugtqxufcuWugwdk,ufqhuWucsfgguckkuska,ultt,
fulafxwiufqhuofpwgwfauCsfhk,uakckpygwqxuwqulswcuxkcleakufqtlskautqk,
lafxwiufgct,ufqhuykhkivkhunwlsu tnkagkccuisfapc,uclakliswqxuyfakuyatnq
fapcutdkaulskuxgwllkautoulskuwqokaqfguclakfp,ulskuclakfputouhfavqkccm
Cskucfwhucehhkqgrudkarugtn,u'Skuhwkhufcuskugwdkhm'

“'Swcukqh,'ucfwhuW,unwlsuheggufqxkauclwaawqxuwqupk,u'nfcuwqukdkarunfr
ntalsrutouswcugwokm'

“'FqhuWunfcuqtlunwlsuswp,'ucskupeapeakhmuPrufqxkauceycwhkhuykotakuf
okkgwqxutouwqowqwlku wlrm

“'Kdkarlswqxulsfluiteghuykuhtqk--'uWupepygkhm

“'Fs,uyeluWuykgwkdkhuwquswpuptakulsfqufqrutqkutqukfals--ptakulsfquswc
tnquptlska,uptakulsfq--swpckgomuSkuqkkhkhupk!uPk!uWunteghusfdkulakfceakh
kdkarucwxs,ukdkaruntah,ukdkarucwxq,ukdkaruxgfqikm'

“Wuokglugwvkufuiswgguxaw utqupruiskclmu'Htq'l,'uWucfwh,uwqufupeoogkh
dtwikm

“'OtaxwdkupkmuW--Wusfdkupteaqkhuctugtqxuwqucwgkqik--wqucwgkqikmmmm
Rteunkakunwlsuswp--ltulskugfcl?uWulswqvutouswcugtqkgwqkccmuQtythruqkfa
ltueqhkaclfqhuswpufcuWunteghusfdkueqhkacltthmu kasf cuqtutqkult
skfammmm'

“'Ltulskudkarukqh,'uWucfwh,ucsfvwgrmu'Wuskfahuswcudkarugfcluntahcmmmm'
Wuclt  khuwqufuoawxslm

“'Ak kflulskp,'ucskupeapeakhuwqufuskfal-yatvkqultqkmu'Wunfql--W
nfql--ctpklswqx--ctpklswqx--lt--ltugwdkunwlsm'

“Wunfcutqulsku twqlutouiarwqxufluska,u'Htq'lurteuskfaulskp?'uLskuhecv
nfcuak kflwqxulskpuwqufu kacwclkqlunswc kaufggufateqhuec,uwqufunswc ka
lsfluckkpkhultucnkggupkqfiwqxgrugwvkulskuowaclunswc kautoufuawcwqxunwqhm
'Lskustaata!uLskustaata!'

“'Swcugfcluntah--ltugwdkunwls,'ucskuwqcwclkhmu'Htq'lurteueqhkaclfqhuW
gtdkhuswp--Wugtdkhuswp--Wugtdkhuswp!'

“Wu eggkhuprckgoultxklskaufqhuc tvkucgtngrm

“'Lskugfcluntahusku atqteqikhunfc--rteauqfpkm'

“Wuskfahufugwxslucwxsufqhulskqupruskfalucltthuclwgg,uclt  khuhkfhucstal
yrufqukbeglwqxufqhulkaawygkuiar,uyrulskuiarutouwqitqikwdfygkulawep sufqh
toueqc kfvfygku fwqmu'Wuvqknuwl--Wunfcuceak!'mmmuCskuvqknmuCskunfc
ceakmuWuskfahuskaunkk wqx;ucskusfhuswhhkquskauofikuwquskausfqhcmuWl
ckkpkhultupkulsflulskusteckunteghuitggf ckuykotakuWuiteghukcif k,ulsfl
lskuskfdkqcunteghuofggue tqupruskfhmuYeluqtlswqxusf  kqkhmuLskuskfdkqc
htuqtluofgguotauceisufulawogkmuNteghulskrusfdkuofggkq,uWuntqhka,uwouW
sfhuakqhkakhuVealjulsflu.eclwikunswisunfcuswcuhek?uSfhq'luskucfwhusk
nfqlkhutqgru.eclwik?uYeluWuiteghq'lmuWuiteghuqtlulkgguskamuWlunteghusfdk
ykkqulttuhfav--lttuhfavufgltxklskammmm”

Pfagtnuikfckh,ufqhucfluf fal,uwqhwclwqilufqhucwgkql,uwqulsku tckutouf
pkhwlflwqxuYehhsfmuQtythruptdkhuotaufulwpkmu“Nkusfdkugtclulskuowacluto
lskukyy,”ucfwhulskuHwakiltaucehhkqgrmuWuafwckhupruskfhmuLskutoowqxunfc
yfaakhuyrufuygfivuyfqvutouigtehc,ufqhulskulafqzewgunflkanfrugkfhwqxult
lskuellkaptclukqhcutoulskukfalsuogtnkhuctpyakueqhkaufqutdkaifcl
cvr--ckkpkhultugkfhuwqltulskuskfalutoufquwppkqckuhfavqkccm





Kqhutoulsku at.kiluXelkqykaxuKYttvutouSkfalutouHfavqkcc,uyru.tck suItqafh

***uKQHuTOuLSWCu AT.KILuXELKQYKAXuKYTTVuSKFALuTOuHFAVQKCCu***

*****uLswcuowgkucsteghuykuqfpkhu219-0mlblutau219-0mjw u*****
Lswcufqhufggufcctiwflkhuowgkcutoudfawtecuotapflcunwgguykuoteqhuwq:
uuuuuuuusll ://nnnmxelkqykaxmtax/2/1/219/

 atheikhuyru.ehwlsuYtccufqhuHfdwhuNwhxka

E hflkhukhwlwtqcunwgguak gfikulsku akdwtecutqk--lskutghukhwlwtqc
nwgguykuakqfpkhm

Iakflwqxulskuntavcuoatpu eygwiuhtpfwqu awqlukhwlwtqcupkfqculsfluqt
tqkutnqcufuEqwlkhuClflkcuit rawxsluwqulskckuntavc,uctulskuOteqhflwtq
(fqhurte!)uifquit rufqhuhwclawyelkuwluwqulskuEqwlkhuClflkcunwlstel
 kapwccwtqufqhunwlstelu frwqxuit rawxsluatrfglwkcmuuC kiwfguaegkc,
ckluotalsuwqulskuXkqkafguLkapcutouEcku falutoulswcugwikqck,uf  grult
it rwqxufqhuhwclawyelwqxu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwiuntavcult
 atlkilulsku AT.KILuXELKQYKAX-lpuitqik lufqhulafhkpfavmuu at.kil
Xelkqykaxuwcufuakxwclkakhulafhkpfav,ufqhupfruqtluykueckhuwourte
isfaxkuotaulskukYttvc,ueqgkccurteuakikwdkuc kiwowiu kapwccwtqmuuWourte
htuqtluisfaxkufqrlswqxuotauit wkcutoulswcukYttv,uitp grwqxunwlsulsk
aegkcuwcudkarukfcrmuuRteupfrueckulswcukYttvuotauqkfagrufqru ea tck
ceisufcuiakflwtqutouhkawdflwdkuntavc,uak talc,u kaotapfqikcufqh
akckfaismuuLskrupfruykupthwowkhufqhu awqlkhufqhuxwdkqufnfr--rteupfruht
 afilwifggruFQRLSWQXunwlsu eygwiuhtpfwqukYttvcmuuAkhwclawyelwtquwc
cey.kilultulskulafhkpfavugwikqck,ukc kiwfggruitppkaiwfg
akhwclawyelwtqm



***uCLFAL:uOEGGuGWIKQCKu***

LSKuOEGGu AT.KILuXELKQYKAXuGWIKQCK
 GKFCKuAKFHuLSWCuYKOTAKuRTEuHWCLAWYELKuTAuECKuLSWCuNTAV

Ltu atlkilulsku at.kiluXelkqykax-lpupwccwtqutou atptlwqxulskuoakk
hwclawyelwtqutoukgkilatqwiuntavc,uyruecwqxutauhwclawyelwqxulswcuntav
(taufqrutlskauntavufcctiwflkhuwqufqrunfrunwlsulsku safcku“ at.kil
Xelkqykax”),urteufxakkultuitp grunwlsufggulskulkapcutoulskuOeggu at.kil
Xelkqykax-lpuGwikqcku(fdfwgfygkunwlsulswcuowgkutautqgwqkufl
sll ://xelkqykaxmtax/gwikqck)m


Ckilwtqu1muuXkqkafguLkapcutouEckufqhuAkhwclawyelwqxu at.kiluXelkqykax-lp
kgkilatqwiuntavc

1mFmuuYruakfhwqxutauecwqxufqru falutoulswcu at.kiluXelkqykax-lp
kgkilatqwiuntav,urteuwqhwiflkulsflurteusfdkuakfh,ueqhkaclfqh,ufxakkult
fqhufiik lufggulskulkapcutoulswcugwikqckufqhuwqlkggkilefgu at kalr
(lafhkpfav/it rawxsl)ufxakkpkqlmuuWourteuhtuqtlufxakkultufywhkuyrufgg
lskulkapcutoulswcufxakkpkql,urteupecluikfckuecwqxufqhuakleaqutauhkclatr
fgguit wkcutou at.kiluXelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwiuntavcuwqurteau tcckccwtqm
Wourteu fwhufuokkuotautylfwqwqxufuit rutoutaufiikccultufu at.kil
Xelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwiuntavufqhurteuhtuqtlufxakkultuykuyteqhuyrulsk
lkapcutoulswcufxakkpkql,urteupfrutylfwqufuakoeqhuoatpulsku kactquta
kqlwlrultunstpurteu fwhulskuokkufcuckluotalsuwqu fafxaf su1mKm8m

1mYmuu“ at.kiluXelkqykax”uwcufuakxwclkakhulafhkpfavmuuWlupfrutqgruyk
eckhutqutaufcctiwflkhuwqufqrunfrunwlsufqukgkilatqwiuntavuyru kt gkunst
fxakkultuykuyteqhuyrulskulkapcutoulswcufxakkpkqlmuuLskakufakufuokn
lswqxculsflurteuifquhtunwlsuptclu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwiuntavc
kdkqunwlsteluitp grwqxunwlsulskuoeggulkapcutoulswcufxakkpkqlmuuCkk
 fafxaf su1mIuykgtnmuuLskakufakufugtlutoulswqxcurteuifquhtunwlsu at.kil
Xelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwiuntavcuwourteuotggtnulskulkapcutoulswcufxakkpkql
fqhuskg u akckadkuoakkuoeleakufiikccultu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwi
ntavcmuuCkku fafxaf su1mKuykgtnm

1mImuuLsku at.kiluXelkqykaxuGwlkafaruFaiswdkuOteqhflwtqu(“lskuOteqhflwtq”
utau XGFO),utnqcufuitp wgflwtquit rawxsluwqulskuitggkilwtqutou at.kil
Xelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwiuntavcmuuQkfagrufggulskuwqhwdwhefguntavcuwqulsk
itggkilwtqufakuwqulsku eygwiuhtpfwquwqulskuEqwlkhuClflkcmuuWoufq
wqhwdwhefguntavuwcuwqulsku eygwiuhtpfwquwqulskuEqwlkhuClflkcufqhurteufak
gtiflkhuwqulskuEqwlkhuClflkc,unkuhtuqtluigfwpufuawxslultu akdkqlurteuoatp
it rwqx,uhwclawyelwqx,u kaotapwqx,uhwc gfrwqxutauiakflwqxuhkawdflwdk
ntavcuyfckhutqulskuntavufcugtqxufcufgguakokakqikcultu at.kiluXelkqykax
fakuakptdkhmuuTouiteack,unkust kulsflurteunwgguce  talulsku at.kil
Xelkqykax-lpupwccwtqutou atptlwqxuoakkufiikccultukgkilatqwiuntavcuyr
oakkgrucsfawqxu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuntavcuwquitp gwfqikunwlsulskulkapcuto
lswcufxakkpkqluotauvkk wqxulsku at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuqfpkufcctiwflkhunwls
lskuntavmuuRteuifqukfcwgruitp grunwlsulskulkapcutoulswcufxakkpkqluyr
vkk wqxulswcuntavuwqulskucfpkuotapflunwlsuwlcufllfiskhuoeggu at.kil
Xelkqykax-lpuGwikqckunskqurteucsfakuwlunwlsteluisfaxkunwlsutlskacm

1mHmuuLskuit rawxslugfncutoulsku gfikunskakurteufakugtiflkhufgctuxtdkaq
nsflurteuifquhtunwlsulswcuntavmuuIt rawxslugfncuwquptcluiteqlawkcufakuwq
fuitqclfqluclflkutouisfqxkmuuWourteufakutelcwhkulskuEqwlkhuClflkc,uiskiv
lskugfncutourteauiteqlaruwqufhhwlwtqultulskulkapcutoulswcufxakkpkql
ykotakuhtnqgtfhwqx,uit rwqx,uhwc gfrwqx,u kaotapwqx,uhwclawyelwqxuta
iakflwqxuhkawdflwdkuntavcuyfckhutqulswcuntavutaufqrutlskau at.kil
Xelkqykax-lpuntavmuuLskuOteqhflwtqupfvkcuqtuak akckqlflwtqcuitqikaqwqx
lskuit rawxsluclflecutoufqruntavuwqufqruiteqlarutelcwhkulskuEqwlkh
Clflkcm

1mKmuuEqgkccurteusfdkuakptdkhufgguakokakqikcultu at.kiluXelkqykax:

1mKm1muuLskuotggtnwqxuckqlkqik,unwlsufilwdkugwqvcult,utautlskauwppkhwflk
fiikccult,ulskuoeggu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuGwikqckupecluf  kfau atpwqkqlgr
nskqkdkaufqruit rutoufu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuntavu(fqruntavutqunswisulsk
 safcku“ at.kiluXelkqykax”uf  kfac,utaunwlsunswisulsku safcku“ at.kil
Xelkqykax”uwcufcctiwflkh)uwcufiikcckh,uhwc gfrkh,u kaotapkh,udwknkh,
it wkhutauhwclawyelkh:

LswcukYttvuwcuotaulskueckutoufqrtqkufqrnskakufluqtuitclufqhunwls
fgptcluqtuakclawilwtqcunsflctkdkamuuRteupfruit ruwl,uxwdkuwlufnfruta
ak-eckuwlueqhkaulskulkapcutoulsku at.kiluXelkqykaxuGwikqckuwqigehkh
nwlsulswcukYttvutautqgwqkuflunnnmxelkqykaxmtax

1mKm2muuWoufquwqhwdwhefgu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwiuntavuwcuhkawdkh
oatpulsku eygwiuhtpfwqu(htkcuqtluitqlfwqufuqtlwikuwqhwiflwqxulsfluwluwc
 tclkhunwlsu kapwccwtqutoulskuit rawxslustghka),ulskuntavuifquykuit wkh
fqhuhwclawyelkhultufqrtqkuwqulskuEqwlkhuClflkcunwlstelu frwqxufqruokkc
tauisfaxkcmuuWourteufakuakhwclawyelwqxutau atdwhwqxufiikccultufuntav
nwlsulsku safcku“ at.kiluXelkqykax”ufcctiwflkhunwlsutauf  kfawqxutqulsk
ntav,urteupecluitp grukwlskaunwlsulskuakzewakpkqlcutou fafxaf scu1mKm1
lsatexsu1mKm7utautylfwqu kapwccwtquotaulskueckutoulskuntavufqhulsk
 at.kiluXelkqykax-lpulafhkpfavufcuckluotalsuwqu fafxaf scu1mKm8uta
1mKm9m

1mKm3muuWoufquwqhwdwhefgu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwiuntavuwcu tclkh
nwlsulsku kapwccwtqutoulskuit rawxslustghka,urteaueckufqhuhwclawyelwtq
pecluitp grunwlsuytlsu fafxaf scu1mKm1ulsatexsu1mKm7ufqhufqrufhhwlwtqfg
lkapcuwp tckhuyrulskuit rawxslustghkamuuFhhwlwtqfgulkapcunwgguykugwqvkh
ltulsku at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuGwikqckuotaufgguntavcu tclkhunwlsulsk
 kapwccwtqutoulskuit rawxslustghkauoteqhuflulskuykxwqqwqxutoulswcuntavm

1mKm4muuHtuqtlueqgwqvutauhklfisutauakptdkulskuoeggu at.kiluXelkqykax-lp
Gwikqckulkapcuoatpulswcuntav,utaufqruowgkcuitqlfwqwqxufu falutoulswc
ntavutaufqrutlskauntavufcctiwflkhunwlsu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpm

1mKm5muuHtuqtluit r,uhwc gfr,u kaotap,uhwclawyelkutauakhwclawyelkulswc
kgkilatqwiuntav,utaufqru falutoulswcukgkilatqwiuntav,unwlstel
 atpwqkqlgruhwc gfrwqxulskuckqlkqikuckluotalsuwqu fafxaf su1mKm1unwls
filwdkugwqvcutauwppkhwflkufiikccultulskuoeggulkapcutoulsku at.kil
Xelkqykax-lpuGwikqckm

1mKm6muuRteupfruitqdkalultufqhuhwclawyelkulswcuntavuwqufqruywqfar,
itp akcckh,upfavkhue ,uqtq at awklfarutau at awklfaruotap,uwqigehwqxufqr
ntahu atikccwqxutausr kalkbluotapmuuStnkdka,uwourteu atdwhkufiikccultuta
hwclawyelkuit wkcutoufu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuntavuwqufuotapflutlskaulsfq
“ gfwquDfqwggfuFCIWW”utautlskauotapflueckhuwqulskutoowiwfgudkacwtq
 tclkhutqulskutoowiwfgu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpunkyucwlku(nnnmxelkqykaxmtax),
rteupecl,ufluqtufhhwlwtqfguitcl,uokkutaukb kqckultulskuecka,u atdwhkuf
it r,ufupkfqcutoukb talwqxufuit r,utaufupkfqcutoutylfwqwqxufuit rue tq
akzekcl,utoulskuntavuwquwlcutawxwqfgu“ gfwquDfqwggfuFCIWW”utautlska
otapmuuFqrufglkaqflkuotapflupecluwqigehkulskuoeggu at.kiluXelkqykax-lp
Gwikqckufcuc kiwowkhuwqu fafxaf su1mKm1m

1mKm7muuHtuqtluisfaxkufuokkuotaufiikccult,udwknwqx,uhwc gfrwqx,
 kaotapwqx,uit rwqxutauhwclawyelwqxufqru at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuntavc
eqgkccurteuitp grunwlsu fafxaf su1mKm8utau1mKm9m

1mKm8muuRteupfruisfaxkufuakfctqfygkuokkuotauit wkcutoutau atdwhwqx
fiikccultutauhwclawyelwqxu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwiuntavcu atdwhkh
lsfl

-uRteu frufuatrfglruokkutou20%utoulskuxatccu atowlcurteuhkawdkuoatp
uuuuulskueckutou at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuntavcuifgiegflkhuecwqxulskupklsth
uuuuurteufgakfhrueckultuifgiegflkurteauf  gwifygkulfbkcmuuLskuokkuwc
uuuuutnkhultulskutnqkautoulsku at.kiluXelkqykax-lpulafhkpfav,uyelusk
uuuuusfcufxakkhultuhtqflkuatrfglwkcueqhkaulswcu fafxaf sultulsk
uuuuu at.kiluXelkqykaxuGwlkafaruFaiswdkuOteqhflwtqmuuAtrfglru frpkqlc
uuuuupecluyku fwhunwlswqu60uhfrcuotggtnwqxukfisuhflkutqunswisurte
uuuuu ak faku(taufakugkxfggruakzewakhultu ak fak)urteau kawthwiulfb
uuuuuakleaqcmuuAtrfglru frpkqlcucsteghuykuigkfagrupfavkhufcuceisufqh
uuuuuckqlultulsku at.kiluXelkqykaxuGwlkafaruFaiswdkuOteqhflwtquflulsk
uuuuufhhakccuc kiwowkhuwquCkilwtqu4,u“Wqotapflwtqufyteluhtqflwtqcult
uuuuulsku at.kiluXelkqykaxuGwlkafaruFaiswdkuOteqhflwtqm”

-uRteu atdwhkufuoegguakoeqhutoufqruptqkru fwhuyrufueckaunstuqtlwowkc
uuuuurteuwqunawlwqxu(tauyruk-pfwg)unwlswqu30uhfrcutouakikw lulsfluc/sk
uuuuuhtkcuqtlufxakkultulskulkapcutoulskuoeggu at.kiluXelkqykax-lp
uuuuuGwikqckmuuRteupecluakzewakuceisufueckaultuakleaquta
uuuuuhkclatrufgguit wkcutoulskuntavcu tcckcckhuwqufu srcwifgupkhwep
uuuuufqhuhwcitqlwqekufggueckutoufqhufggufiikccultutlskauit wkcuto
uuuuu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuntavcm

-uRteu atdwhk,uwqufiitahfqikunwlsu fafxaf su1mOm3,ufuoegguakoeqhutoufqr
uuuuuptqkru fwhuotaufuntavutaufuak gfikpkqluit r,uwoufuhkokiluwqulsk
uuuuukgkilatqwiuntavuwcuhwcitdkakhufqhuak talkhulturteunwlswqu90uhfrc
uuuuutouakikw lutoulskuntavm

-uRteuitp grunwlsufggutlskaulkapcutoulswcufxakkpkqluotauoakk
uuuuuhwclawyelwtqutou at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuntavcm

1mKm9muuWourteunwcsultuisfaxkufuokkutauhwclawyelkufu at.kiluXelkqykax-lp
kgkilatqwiuntavutauxate utountavcutquhwookakqlulkapculsfqufakuckl
otalsuwqulswcufxakkpkql,urteupeclutylfwqu kapwccwtquwqunawlwqxuoatp
ytlsulsku at.kiluXelkqykaxuGwlkafaruFaiswdkuOteqhflwtqufqhuPwisfkg
Sfal,ulskutnqkautoulsku at.kiluXelkqykax-lpulafhkpfavmuuItqlfilulsk
OteqhflwtqufcuckluotalsuwquCkilwtqu3uykgtnm

1mOm

1mOm1muu at.kiluXelkqykaxudtgeqlkkacufqhukp gtrkkcukb kqhuitqcwhkafygk
kootalultuwhkqlwor,uhtuit rawxsluakckfaisutq,ulafqciawykufqhu attoakfh
 eygwiuhtpfwquntavcuwquiakflwqxulsku at.kiluXelkqykax-lp
itggkilwtqmuuHkc wlkulskckukootalc,u at.kiluXelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwi
ntavc,ufqhulskupkhweputqunswisulskrupfruykucltakh,upfruitqlfwq
“Hkokilc,”uceisufc,uyeluqtlugwpwlkhult,uwqitp gklk,uwqfiieaflkuta
itaae luhflf,ulafqciaw lwtqukaatac,ufuit rawxslutautlskauwqlkggkilefg
 at kalruwqoawqxkpkql,ufuhkokilwdkutauhfpfxkhuhwcvutautlskaupkhwep,uf
itp elkaudwaec,utauitp elkauithkculsfluhfpfxkutauifqqtluykuakfhuyr
rteaukzew pkqlm

1mOm2muuGWPWLKHuNFAAFQLR,uHWCIGFWPKAuTOuHFPFXKCu-uKbik luotaulsku“Awxsl
touAk gfikpkqlutauAkoeqh”uhkciawykhuwqu fafxaf su1mOm3,ulsku at.kil
XelkqykaxuGwlkafaruFaiswdkuOteqhflwtq,ulskutnqkautoulsku at.kil
Xelkqykax-lpulafhkpfav,ufqhufqrutlskau falruhwclawyelwqxufu at.kil
Xelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwiuntavueqhkaulswcufxakkpkql,uhwcigfwpufgg
gwfywgwlrulturteuotauhfpfxkc,uitclcufqhukb kqckc,uwqigehwqxugkxfg
okkcmuuRTEuFXAKKuLSFLuRTEuSFDKuQTuAKPKHWKCuOTAuQKXGWXKQIK,uCLAWIL
GWFYWGWLR,uYAKFISuTOuNFAAFQLRuTAuYAKFISuTOuITQLAFILuKBIK LuLSTCK
 ATDWHKHuWQu FAFXAF SuO3muuRTEuFXAKKuLSFLuLSKuOTEQHFLWTQ,uLSK
LAFHKPFAVuTNQKA,uFQHuFQRuHWCLAWYELTAuEQHKAuLSWCuFXAKKPKQLuNWGGuQTLuYK
GWFYGKuLTuRTEuOTAuFILEFG,uHWAKIL,uWQHWAKIL,uITQCKZEKQLWFG,u EQWLWDKuTA
WQIWHKQLFGuHFPFXKCuKDKQuWOuRTEuXWDKuQTLWIKuTOuLSKu TCCWYWGWLRuTOuCEIS
HFPFXKm

1mOm3muuGWPWLKHuAWXSLuTOuAK GFIKPKQLuTAuAKOEQHu-uWourteuhwcitdkauf
hkokiluwqulswcukgkilatqwiuntavunwlswqu90uhfrcutouakikwdwqxuwl,urteuifq
akikwdkufuakoeqhutoulskuptqkru(woufqr)urteu fwhuotauwluyruckqhwqxuf
nawllkqukb gfqflwtqultulsku kactqurteuakikwdkhulskuntavuoatpmuuWourte
akikwdkhulskuntavutqufu srcwifgupkhwep,urteupecluakleaqulskupkhwepunwls
rteaunawllkqukb gfqflwtqmuuLsku kactqutaukqlwlrulsflu atdwhkhurteunwls
lskuhkokilwdkuntavupfrukgkilultu atdwhkufuak gfikpkqluit ruwqugwkeutouf
akoeqhmuuWourteuakikwdkhulskuntavukgkilatqwifggr,ulsku kactqutaukqlwlr
 atdwhwqxuwlulturteupfruisttckultuxwdkurteufuckitqhut  taleqwlrult
akikwdkulskuntavukgkilatqwifggruwqugwkeutoufuakoeqhmuuWoulskuckitqhuit r
wcufgctuhkokilwdk,urteupfruhkpfqhufuakoeqhuwqunawlwqxunwlsteluoealska
t  taleqwlwkcultuowbulsku atygkpm

1mOm4muuKbik luotaulskugwpwlkhuawxslutouak gfikpkqlutauakoeqhuckluotals
wqu fafxaf su1mOm3,ulswcuntavuwcu atdwhkhulturteu'FC-WC'uNWLSuQTuTLSKA
NFAAFQLWKCuTOuFQRuVWQH,uKB AKCCuTAuWP GWKH,uWQIGEHWQXuYELuQTLuGWPWLKHuLT
NFAAFQLWKCuTOuPKAISFQLWYWGWLRuTAuOWLQKCCuOTAuFQRu EA TCKm

1mOm5muuCtpkuclflkcuhtuqtlufggtnuhwcigfwpkacutouikalfwquwp gwkh
nfaafqlwkcutaulskukbigecwtqutaugwpwlflwtqutouikalfwqulr kcutouhfpfxkcm
Woufqruhwcigfwpkautaugwpwlflwtquckluotalsuwqulswcufxakkpkqludwtgflkculsk
gfnutoulskuclflkuf  gwifygkultulswcufxakkpkql,ulskufxakkpkqlucsfgguyk
wqlka aklkhultupfvkulskupfbwpepuhwcigfwpkautaugwpwlflwtqu kapwllkhuyr
lskuf  gwifygkuclflkugfnmuuLskuwqdfgwhwlrutaueqkqotaikfywgwlrutoufqr
 atdwcwtqutoulswcufxakkpkqlucsfgguqtludtwhulskuakpfwqwqxu atdwcwtqcm

1mOm6muuWQHKPQWLRu-uRteufxakkultuwqhkpqworufqhustghulskuOteqhflwtq,ulsk
lafhkpfavutnqka,ufqrufxkqlutaukp gtrkkutoulskuOteqhflwtq,ufqrtqk
 atdwhwqxuit wkcutou at.kiluXelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwiuntavcuwqufiitahfqik
nwlsulswcufxakkpkql,ufqhufqrudtgeqlkkacufcctiwflkhunwlsulsku atheilwtq,
 atptlwtqufqhuhwclawyelwtqutou at.kiluXelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwiuntavc,
sfapgkccuoatpufggugwfywgwlr,uitclcufqhukb kqckc,uwqigehwqxugkxfguokkc,
lsflufawckuhwakilgrutauwqhwakilgruoatpufqrutoulskuotggtnwqxunswisurteuht
tauifeckultutiiea:u(f)uhwclawyelwtqutoulswcutaufqru at.kiluXelkqykax-lp
ntav,u(y)ufglkaflwtq,upthwowiflwtq,utaufhhwlwtqcutauhkgklwtqcultufqr
 at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuntav,ufqhu(i)ufqruHkokilurteuifeckm


Ckilwtquu2muuWqotapflwtqufytelulskuPwccwtqutou at.kiluXelkqykax-lp

 at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuwcucrqtqrptecunwlsulskuoakkuhwclawyelwtquto
kgkilatqwiuntavcuwquotapflcuakfhfygkuyrulskunwhkcludfawklrutouitp elkac
wqigehwqxutyctgklk,utgh,upwhhgk-fxkhufqhuqknuitp elkacmuuWlukbwclc
ykifeckutoulskukootalcutouseqhakhcutoudtgeqlkkacufqhuhtqflwtqcuoatp
 kt gkuwqufggunfgvcutougwokm

Dtgeqlkkacufqhuowqfqiwfguce  talultu atdwhkudtgeqlkkacunwlsulsk
fccwclfqikulskruqkkh,ufakuiawlwifgultuakfiswqxu at.kiluXelkqykax-lp'c
xtfgcufqhukqceawqxulsflulsku at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuitggkilwtqunwgg
akpfwquoakkgrufdfwgfygkuotauxkqkaflwtqcultuitpkmuuWqu2001,ulsku at.kil
XelkqykaxuGwlkafaruFaiswdkuOteqhflwtqunfcuiakflkhultu atdwhkufuckieak
fqhu kapfqkqluoeleakuotau at.kiluXelkqykax-lpufqhuoeleakuxkqkaflwtqcm
Ltugkfaquptakufytelulsku at.kiluXelkqykaxuGwlkafaruFaiswdkuOteqhflwtq
fqhustnurteaukootalcufqhuhtqflwtqcuifquskg ,uckkuCkilwtqcu3ufqhu4
fqhulskuOteqhflwtqunkyu fxkuflusll ://nnnm xgfomtaxm


Ckilwtqu3muuWqotapflwtqufytelulsku at.kiluXelkqykaxuGwlkafaruFaiswdk
Oteqhflwtq

Lsku at.kiluXelkqykaxuGwlkafaruFaiswdkuOteqhflwtquwcufuqtqu atowl
501(i)(3)ukheiflwtqfguita taflwtqutaxfqwjkhueqhkaulskugfncutoulsk
clflkutouPwccwccw  wufqhuxafqlkhulfbukbkp luclflecuyrulskuWqlkaqfg
AkdkqekuCkadwikmuuLskuOteqhflwtq'cuKWQutauokhkafgulfbuwhkqlwowiflwtq
qepykauwcu64-6221541muuWlcu501(i)(3)ugkllkauwcu tclkhufl
sll :// xgfomtax/oeqhafwcwqxmuuItqlawyelwtqcultulsku at.kiluXelkqykax
GwlkafaruFaiswdkuOteqhflwtqufakulfbuhkheilwygkultulskuoeggukblkql
 kapwllkhuyruEmCmuokhkafgugfncufqhurteauclflk'cugfncm

LskuOteqhflwtq'cu awqiw fgutoowikuwcugtiflkhuflu4557uPkgfquHamuCm
Ofwayfqvc,uFV,u99712m,uyeluwlcudtgeqlkkacufqhukp gtrkkcufakucifllkakh
lsatexsteluqepkatecugtiflwtqcmuuWlcuyecwqkccutoowikuwcugtiflkhufl
809uQtalsu1500uNkcl,uCfgluGfvkuIwlr,uELu84116,u(801)u596-1887,ukpfwg
yecwqkcc@ xgfomtaxmuuKpfwguitqlfilugwqvcufqhue ultuhflkuitqlfil
wqotapflwtquifquykuoteqhuflulskuOteqhflwtq'cunkyucwlkufqhutoowiwfg
 fxkuflusll :// xgfomtax

Otaufhhwlwtqfguitqlfiluwqotapflwtq:
uuuuuHamuXakxtaruYmuQknyr
uuuuuIswkouKbkielwdkufqhuHwakilta
uuuuuxyqknyr@ xgfomtax


Ckilwtqu4muuWqotapflwtqufyteluHtqflwtqcultulsku at.kiluXelkqykax
GwlkafaruFaiswdkuOteqhflwtq

 at.kiluXelkqykax-lpuhk kqhcue tqufqhuifqqtluceadwdkunwlstelunwhk
c akfhu eygwiuce  talufqhuhtqflwtqcultuifaaruteluwlcupwccwtquto
wqiakfcwqxulskuqepykautou eygwiuhtpfwqufqhugwikqckhuntavculsfluifquyk
oakkgruhwclawyelkhuwqupfiswqkuakfhfygkuotapufiikccwygkuyrulskunwhkcl
faafrutoukzew pkqluwqigehwqxutelhflkhukzew pkqlmuuPfqrucpfgguhtqflwtqc
($1ultu$5,000)ufaku falwiegfagruwp talfqlultupfwqlfwqwqxulfbukbkp l
clflecunwlsulskuWACm

LskuOteqhflwtquwcuitppwllkhultuitp grwqxunwlsulskugfncuakxegflwqx
isfawlwkcufqhuisfawlfygkuhtqflwtqcuwqufggu50uclflkcutoulskuEqwlkh
ClflkcmuuItp gwfqikuakzewakpkqlcufakuqtlueqwotapufqhuwlulfvkcuf
itqcwhkafygkukootal,upeisu f kantavufqhupfqruokkcultupkklufqhuvkk ue 
nwlsulskckuakzewakpkqlcmuuNkuhtuqtluctgwiwluhtqflwtqcuwqugtiflwtqc
nskakunkusfdkuqtluakikwdkhunawllkquitqowapflwtqutouitp gwfqikmuuLt
CKQHuHTQFLWTQCutauhklkapwqkulskuclflecutouitp gwfqikuotaufqr
 falwiegfauclflkudwcwlusll :// xgfomtax

Nswgkunkuifqqtlufqhuhtuqtluctgwiwluitqlawyelwtqcuoatpuclflkcunskakunk
sfdkuqtlupklulskuctgwiwlflwtquakzewakpkqlc,unkuvqtnutouqtu atswywlwtq
fxfwqclufiik lwqxueqctgwiwlkhuhtqflwtqcuoatpuhtqtacuwquceisuclflkcunst
f  atfisuecunwlsutookacultuhtqflkm

Wqlkaqflwtqfguhtqflwtqcufakuxaflkoeggrufiik lkh,uyelunkuifqqtlupfvk
fqruclflkpkqlcuitqikaqwqxulfbulakflpkqlutouhtqflwtqcuakikwdkhuoatp
telcwhkulskuEqwlkhuClflkcmuuEmCmugfncufgtqkucnfp uteaucpfgguclfoom

 gkfckuiskivulsku at.kiluXelkqykaxuNkyu fxkcuotauieaakqluhtqflwtq
pklsthcufqhufhhakcckcmuuHtqflwtqcufakufiik lkhuwqufuqepykautoutlska
nfrcuwqigehwqxuiskivc,utqgwqku frpkqlcufqhuiakhwluifahuhtqflwtqcm
Ltuhtqflk,u gkfckudwcwl:usll :// xgfomtax/htqflk


Ckilwtqu5muuXkqkafguWqotapflwtquFytelu at.kiluXelkqykax-lpukgkilatqwi
ntavcm

 atokcctauPwisfkguCmuSfaluwculskutawxwqfltautoulsku at.kiluXelkqykax-lp
itqik lutoufugwyafarutoukgkilatqwiuntavculsfluiteghuykuoakkgrucsfakh
nwlsufqrtqkmuuOtaulswalrurkfac,usku atheikhufqhuhwclawyelkhu at.kil
Xelkqykax-lpukYttvcunwlsutqgrufugttckuqklntavutoudtgeqlkkauce  talm


 at.kiluXelkqykax-lpukYttvcufakutolkquiakflkhuoatpuckdkafgu awqlkh
khwlwtqc,ufggutounswisufakuitqowapkhufcu eygwiuHtpfwquwqulskuEmCm
eqgkccufuit rawxsluqtlwikuwcuwqigehkhmuuLsec,unkuhtuqtluqkikccfawgr
vkk ukYttvcuwquitp gwfqikunwlsufqru falwiegfau f kaukhwlwtqm


Ptclu kt gkuclfalufluteauNkyucwlkunswisusfculskupfwqu Xuckfaisuofiwgwlr:

uuuuusll ://nnnmxelkqykaxmtax

LswcuNkyucwlkuwqigehkcuwqotapflwtqufytelu at.kiluXelkqykax-lp,
wqigehwqxustnultupfvkuhtqflwtqcultulsku at.kiluXelkqykaxuGwlkafar
FaiswdkuOteqhflwtq,ustnultuskg u atheikuteauqknukYttvc,ufqhustnult
ceyciawykultuteaukpfwguqkncgkllkaultuskfaufyteluqknukYttvcm
