GnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbeacBHqqwcqkc esjbcfo.cIuospnjbog,chxcKxq.qec.qpgqbypwx

GnspcbHqqwcspckqecgnbcupbcqkcfoxqobcfoxrnbebcfgcoqc qpgcfo.crsgn
fvjqpgcoqcebpges gsqopcrnfgpqbybetccXqucjfxc qixcsg,casybcsgcfrfxcqe
eb-upbcsgcuo.becgnbcgbejpcqkcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbeacVs bopbcso vu.b.
rsgncgnspcbHqqwcqecqovsobcfgcrrrtaugbohbeatqea


Gsgvb:c esjbcfo.cIuospnjbog

Fugnqe:cKxq.qec.qpgqbypwx

Ebvbfpbc.fgb:cJfe nc28,c2006c[BHqqwc#2554]
VfpgcUi.fgb.:cQ gqhbec27,c2016

Vfoaufab:cBoavspn

 nfef gbecpbgcbo q.soa:cUGK-8

***cPGFEGcQKcGNSPcIEQMB GcAUGBOHBEAcBHQQWc ESJBcFO.cIUOSPNJBOGc***




Ieq.u b.chxcMqnocHs wbep;cfo.c.faox





 ESJBcFO.cIUOSPNJBOG

HxcKxq.qec.qpgqbypwx



Gefopvfgb.cHxc qopgfo bcAfeobgg




GEFOPVFGQE’PcIEBKF B

Fckbrcrqe.pcfhqugc.qpgqbypwxcnsjpbvkcjfxcnbvicgnbcBoavspncebf.becgq
uo.bepgfo.cnspcrqewt

.qpgqbypwxcrfpcgnbcpqocqkcfc.q gqetcNspcifebogpcrbebcybexcnfe.-rqewsoa
fo.c.bbivxcebvsasqupcibqivb,chugcpqciqqecgnfgcgnbxcvsyb.crsgncgnbsecksyb
 nsv.ebocsocqovxcgrqceqqjptcGnbckfgnbecfo.cjqgnbecpibogcgnbsecbybosoap
socebf.soacfvqu.cgqcgnbsec nsv.ebo,cabobefvvxckeqjchqqwpcqkcfcpbesqup
 nfef gbet

Gnquancfvrfxpcps wvxcfo.c.bvs fgbc.qpgqbypwxc fjbcqugcgnse.csocgnb
ksofvcbdfjsofgsqocqkcgnbcIbgbephueacp nqqvcqkcBoasobbesoatcGnbebcnbcnf.
fvebf.xchbauocnspcksepgcrqew,c“IqqecKqvwt”

Gnspcpgqexcrfpciuhvspnb.chxcgnbciqbgcObwefppqycsocnspcebysbrcfo.
rfpceb bsyb.crsgncf  vfjfgsqoptcGnbcpnx,cuowoqrocxqugnckquo.cnsjpbvk
sopgfogvxcpqjbgnsoacqkcfc bvbhesgxtcFchesvvsfogcfo.cpu  bppkuvc febbe
pbbjb.cgqcqibochbkqebcnsj,chugcgnqpbcnqibpcrbebcpqqoc.fpnb.tcSoc1849cnb
rfpcfeebpgb.t

Gnquancobsgnbechxcgbjibefjbogcoqec qoys gsqocfcebyqvugsqospg,c.qpgqbypwx
rfpcqobcqkcfcvsggvbcaequicqkcxquoacjbocrnqcjbgcgqabgnbecgqcebf.cKquesbe
fo.cIequ.nqotcNbcrfpcf  upb.cqkc“gfwsoacifegcsoc qoybepfgsqopcfafsopg
gnbc bopqepnsi,cqkcebf.soacfcvbggbeckeqjcHxbvsopwxcgqcAqaqv,cfo.cqk
woqrsoacqkcgnbcsogbogsqocgqcpbgcuicfciesogsoaciebppt”cUo.becOs nqvfp
Stc(gnfgc“pgbeocfo.cmupgcjfo,”cfpcJfues bcHfesoac fvvpcnsj)cgnspcrfp
boquan,cfo.cnbcrfpc qo.bjob.cgqc.bfgntcFkgbecbsangcjqognp’csjiespqojbog
nbcrfpcrsgncgrbogx-qobcqgnbepcgfwbocqugcgqcgnbcPbjxqoqypwxcPlufebcgq
hbcpnqgtcResgsoacgqcnspcheqgnbecJsnfsv,c.qpgqbypwxcpfxp:c“Gnbxcpofiib.
rqe.pcqybecquecnbf.p,cfo.cgnbxcjf.bcupciugcqocgnbcrnsgbcpnsegpcrqeochx
ibepqopc qo.bjob.cgqc.bfgntcGnbebuiqocrbcrbebchquo.csocgnebbpcgqcpgfwbp,
gqcpukkbecbdb ugsqotcHbsoacgnbcgnse.csocgnbceqr,cSc qo vu.b.cScnf.cqovx
fckbrcjsougbpcqkcvskbchbkqebcjbtcScgnquangcqkcxqucfo.cxquec.bfecqobpcfo.
Sc qogesyb.cgqcwsppcIvbpg nbsbycfo.c.queqy,crnqcrbebcobdgcgqcjb,cfo.cgq
hs.cgnbjckfebrbvvtcPu..bovxcgnbcgeqqipchbfgcfcgfggqq,crbcrbebcuohquo.,
hequangchf wcuiqocgnbcp fkkqv.,cfo.csokqejb.cgnfgcnspcJfmbpgxcnf.cpifeb.
upcquecvsybpt”cGnbcpbogbo bcrfpc qjjugb.cgqcnfe.cvfhquet

Qobcqkcgnbciespqobep,cAesaqexby,crbogcjf.cfpcpqqocfpcnbcrfpcuogsb.,cfo.
obybecebafsob.cnspcpfosgxt

Gnbcsogbopbcpukkbesoacqkcgnspcbdibesbo bcvbkgcfcvfpgsoacpgfjicqo
.qpgqbypwx’pcjso.tcGnquancnspcebvsasqupcgbjibecvb.cnsjcsocgnbcbo.cgq
f  bigcbybexcpukkbesoacrsgncebpsaofgsqocfo.cgqcebafe.csgcfpcfchvbppsoa
socnspcqroc fpb,cnbc qopgfogvxceb uepcgqcgnbcpuhmb gcsocnspcresgsoapt
Nbc.bp eshbpcgnbcfrkuvcfaqoxcqkcgnbc qo.bjob.cjfocfo.csopspgpcqocgnb
 eubvgxcqkcsokvs gsoacpu ncgqeguebtcGnbockqvvqrb.ckquecxbfepcqkcibofv
pbeysgu.b,cpibogcsocgnbc qjifoxcqkc qjjqoc esjsofvpcsocPshbesf,crnbeb
nbchbafocgnbc“.bf.cNqupb,”cfo.cpqjbcxbfepcqkcpbeys bcsocfc.sp sivsofex
hfggfvsqot

Nbcnf.cpnqrocpsaopcqkcpqjbcqhp uebcobeyqupc.spbfpbchbkqebcnspcfeebpg
fo.cgnspcoqrc.bybvqib.csogqcysqvbogcfggf wpcqkcbisvbipx,ckeqjcrns ncnb
pukkbeb.ckqecgnbcebpgcqkcnspcvskbtcGnbcksgpcq  ueeb.cgnebbcqeckquecgsjbp
fcxbfecfo.crbebcjqebckeblubogcsocibesq.pcqkcaebfgcpgefsotcSoc1859cnbcrfp
fvvqrb.cgqcebgueocgqcEuppsftcNbcpgfegb.cfcmqueofv--“Yebjxf,”crns ncrfp
kqehs..bochxcgnbc bopqepnsicgnequancfcjspuo.bepgfo.soatcSoc1864cnbcvqpg
nspcksepgcrskbcfo.cnspcheqgnbecJsnfsvtcNbcrfpcsocgbeeshvbciqybegx,cxbg
nbcgqqwcuiqocnsjpbvkcgnbcifxjbogcqkcnspcheqgnbe’pc.bhgptcNbcpgfegb.
foqgnbecmqueofv--“GnbcBiq n,”crns ncrsgnsocfckbrcjqognpcrfpcfvpq
ieqnshsgb.tcNbcrfpcrbsanb.c.qrochxc.bhg,cnspcheqgnbe’pckfjsvxcrfp
.bibo.bogcqocnsj,cnbcrfpckqe b.cgqcresgbcfgcnbfeg-hebfwsoacpibb.,cfo.csp
pfs.cobybecgqcnfybc qeeb gb.cnspcrqewtcGnbcvfgbecxbfepcqkcnspcvskbcrbeb
ju ncpqkgbob.chxcgnbcgbo.beobppcfo.c.byqgsqocqkcnspcpb qo.crskbt

SocMuobc1880cnbcjf.bcnspckfjqupcpibb ncfgcgnbcuoybsvsoacqkcgnb
jqoujbogcgqcIupnwsocsocJqp qrcfo.cnbcrfpceb bsyb.crsgncbdgefqe.sofex
.bjqopgefgsqopcqkcvqybcfo.cnqoquet

Fckbrcjqognpcvfgbec.qpgqbypwxc.sb.tcNbcrfpckqvvqrb.cgqcgnbcaefybchxcf
yfpgcjuvgsgu.bcqkcjqueobep,crnqc“afybcgnbcnfivbppcjfocgnbckuobefvcqkcf
wsoat”cNbcspcpgsvvcieqhfhvxcgnbcjqpgcrs.bvxcebf.cresgbecsocEuppsft

Socgnbcrqe.pcqkcfcEuppsfoc esgs ,crnqcpbbwpcgqcbdivfsocgnbckbbvsoa
sopiseb.chxc.qpgqbypwx:c“Nbcrfpcqobcqkcquepbvybp,cfcjfocqkcquechvqq.cfo.
quechqob,chugcqobcrnqcnfpcpukkbeb.cfo.cnfpcpbbocpqcju ncjqebc.bbivxcgnfo
rbcnfybcnspcsopsangcsjiebppbpcupcfpcrsp.qjtttcgnfgcrsp.qjcqkcgnbcnbfeg
rns ncrbcpbbwcgnfgcrbcjfxcvbfeockeqjcsgcnqrcgqcvsybtcFvvcnspcqgnbe
askgpc fjbcgqcnsjckeqjcofgueb,cgnspcnbcrqockqecnsjpbvkcfo.cgnequancsgcnb
hb fjbcaebfgt”





 ESJBcFO.cIUOSPNJBOG




IFEGcS



 NFIGBEcS

Qocfocbd bigsqofvvxcnqgcbybosoacbfevxcsocMuvxcfcxquoacjfoc fjbcqugcqk
gnbcafeebgcsocrns ncnbcvq.ab.csocPtcIvf bcfo.crfvwb.cpvqrvx,cfpcgnquan
socnbpsgfgsqo,cgqrfe.pcWtches.abt

Nbcnf.cpu  bppkuvvxcfyqs.b.cjbbgsoacnspcvfo.vf.xcqocgnbcpgfse fpbtcNsp
afeebgcrfpcuo.becgnbceqqkcqkcfcnsan,cksyb-pgqesb.cnqupbcfo.crfpcjqeb
vswbcfc uihqfe.cgnfocfceqqjtcGnbcvfo.vf.xcrnqcieqys.b.cnsjcrsgncafeebg,
.soobep,cfo.cfggbo.fo b,cvsyb.cqocgnbckvqqechbvqr,cfo.cbybexcgsjb
nbcrbogcqugcnbcrfpcqhvsab.cgqcifppcnbecwsg nbo,cgnbc.qqecqkcrns n
soyfesfhvxcpgqq.cqibotcFo.cbf ncgsjbcnbcifppb.,cgnbcxquoacjfocnf.cf
ps w,ckesangbob.ckbbvsoa,crns ncjf.bcnsjcp qrvcfo.ckbbvcfpnfjb.tcNbcrfp
nqibvbppvxcsoc.bhgcgqcnspcvfo.vf.x,cfo.crfpcfkefs.cqkcjbbgsoacnbet

Gnspcrfpcoqgchb fupbcnbcrfpc qrfe.vxcfo.cfhmb g,clusgbcgnbc qogefex;chug
kqecpqjbcgsjbcifpgcnbcnf.chbbocsocfocqybepgefsob.cseesgfhvbc qo.sgsqo,
ybeasoacqocnxiq nqo.esftcNbcnf.chb qjbcpqc qjivbgbvxcfhpqehb.cso
nsjpbvk,cfo.cspqvfgb.ckeqjcnspckbvvqrpcgnfgcnbc.ebf.b.cjbbgsoa,coqg
qovxcnspcvfo.vf.x,chugcfoxqobcfgcfvvtcNbcrfpc eupnb.chxciqybegx,chugcgnb
fodsbgsbpcqkcnspciqpsgsqocnf.cqkcvfgbc bfpb.cgqcrbsancuiqocnsjtcNbcnf.
asybocuicfggbo.soacgqcjfggbepcqkcief gs fvcsjiqegfo b;cnbcnf.cvqpgcfvv
.bpsebcgqc.qcpqtcOqgnsoacgnfgcfoxcvfo.vf.xc quv.c.qcnf.cfcebfvcgbeeqe
kqecnsjtcHugcgqchbcpgqiib.cqocgnbcpgfsep,cgqchbckqe b.cgqcvspgbocgqcnbe
gesysfv,cseebvbyfogcaqppsi,cgqcibpgbesoac.bjfo.pckqecifxjbog,cgnebfgp
fo.c qjivfsogp,cfo.cgqcef wcnspchefsopckqecbd upbp,cgqciebyfes fgb,cgq
vsb--oq,cefgnbecgnfocgnfg,cnbcrquv.c ebbic.qrocgnbcpgfsepcvswbcfc fgcfo.
pvsicqugcuopbbot

Gnspcbybosoa,cnqrbybe,cqoc qjsoacqugcsogqcgnbcpgebbg,cnbchb fjbcf ugbvx
frfebcqkcnspckbfept

“Scrfogcgqcfggbjigcfcgnsoac_vswbcgnfg_cfo.cfjckesangbob.chxcgnbpb
geskvbp,”cnbcgnquang,crsgncfocq..cpjsvbtc“Njtttcxbp,cfvvcspcsocfcjfo’p
nfo.pcfo.cnbcvbgpcsgcfvvcpvsickeqjc qrfe.s b,cgnfg’pcfocfdsqjtcSgcrquv.
hbcsogbebpgsoacgqcwoqrcrnfgcsgcspcjbocfebcjqpgcfkefs.cqktcGfwsoacfcobr
pgbi,cuggbesoacfcobrcrqe.cspcrnfgcgnbxckbfecjqpgttttcHugcScfjcgfvwsoa
gqqcju ntcSg’pchb fupbcSc nfggbecgnfgcSc.qcoqgnsoatcQecibenfipcsgcsp
gnfgcSc nfggbechb fupbcSc.qcoqgnsoatcS’ybcvbfeob.cgqc nfggbecgnsp
vfpgcjqogn,cvxsoackqec.fxpcgqabgnbecsocjxc.bocgnsowsoatttcqkcMf wcgnb
Asfog-wsvvbetcRnxcfjcScaqsoacgnbebcoqr?cFjcSc fifhvbcqkc_gnfg_?cSp
_gnfg_cpbesqup?cSgcspcoqgcpbesqupcfgcfvvtcSg’pcpsjivxcfckfogfpxcgqcfjupb
jxpbvk;cfcivfxgnsoa!cXbp,cjfxhbcsgcspcfcivfxgnsoat”

Gnbcnbfgcsocgnbcpgebbgcrfpcgbeeshvb:cfo.cgnbcfsevbppobpp,cgnbchupgvb
fo.cgnbcivfpgbe,cp fkkqv.soa,ches wp,cfo.c.upgcfvvcfhqugcnsj,cfo.cgnfg
pib sfvcIbgbephueacpgbo n,cpqckfjsvsfecgqcfvvcrnqcfebcuofhvbcgqcabgcqug
qkcgqrocsocpujjbe--fvvcrqewb.cifsokuvvxcuiqocgnbcxquoacjfo’pcfvebf.x
qyberequangcobeybptcGnbcsopukkbefhvbcpgbo nckeqjcgnbciqg-nqupbp,crns n
febcifegs uvfevxcoujbequpcsocgnfgcifegcqkcgnbcgqro,cfo.cgnbc.euowbocjbo
rnqjcnbcjbgc qogsoufvvx,cfvgnquancsgcrfpcfcrqewsoac.fx,c qjivbgb.
gnbcebyqvgsoacjspbexcqkcgnbcis guebtcFocbdiebppsqocqkcgnbcieqkquo.bpg
.spaupgcavbfjb.ckqecfcjqjbogcsocgnbcxquoacjfo’pcebksob.ckf btcNbcrfp,
hxcgnbcrfx,cbd bigsqofvvxcnfo.pqjb,cfhqybcgnbcfybefabcsocnbsang,cpvsj,
rbvv-husvg,crsgnchbfugskuvc.fewcbxbpcfo.c.fewcheqrocnfsetcPqqocnbcpfow
sogqc.bbicgnquang,cqecjqebcf  uefgbvxcpibfwsoacsogqcfc qjivbgbchvfowobpp
qkcjso.;cnbcrfvwb.cfvqoacoqgcqhpbeysoacrnfgcrfpcfhqugcnsjcfo.coqgc fesoa
gqcqhpbeybcsgtcKeqjcgsjbcgqcgsjb,cnbcrquv.cjuggbecpqjbgnsoa,ckeqjcgnb
nfhsgcqkcgfvwsoacgqcnsjpbvk,cgqcrns ncnbcnf.cmupgc qokbppb.tcFgcgnbpb
jqjbogpcnbcrquv.chb qjbc qop squpcgnfgcnspcs.bfpcrbebcpqjbgsjbpcsocf
gfoavbcfo.cgnfgcnbcrfpcybexcrbfw;ckqecgrqc.fxpcnbcnf.cp fe bvxcgfpgb.
kqq.t

Nbcrfpcpqchf.vxc.ebppb.cgnfgcbybocfcjfocf  upgqjb.cgqcpnfhhsobppcrquv.
nfybchbbocfpnfjb.cgqchbcpbbocsocgnbcpgebbgcsocpu ncefaptcSocgnfgclufegbe
qkcgnbcgqro,cnqrbybe,cp fe bvxcfoxcpnqeg qjsoacsoc.ebppcrquv.cnfyb
 ebfgb.cpueiespbtcQrsoacgqcgnbcieqdsjsgxcqkcgnbcNfxcJfewbg,cgnbcoujhbe
qkcbpgfhvspnjbogpcqkchf.c nfef gbe,cgnbciebiqo.befo bcqkcgnbcgef.soa
fo.crqewsoac vfppciqiuvfgsqoc eqr.b.csocgnbpbcpgebbgpcfo.cfvvbxpcsocgnb
nbfegcqkcIbgbephuea,cgxibpcpqcyfesqupcrbebcgqchbcpbbocsocgnbcpgebbgp
gnfgcoqcksaueb,cnqrbybeclubbe,crquv.cnfybc fupb.cpueiespbtcHugcgnbebcrfp
pu ncf  ujuvfgb.chsggbeobppcfo.c qogbjigcsocgnbcxquoacjfo’pcnbfeg,cgnfg,
socpisgbcqkcfvvcgnbckfpgs.squpobppcqkcxqugn,cnbcjso.b.cnspcefapcvbfpg
qkcfvvcsocgnbcpgebbgtcSgcrfpcfc.skkbebogcjfggbecrnbocnbcjbgcrsgn
f lufsogfo bpcqecrsgnckqejbeckbvvqrcpgu.bogp,crnqj,cso.bb.,cnbc.spvswb.
jbbgsoacfgcfoxcgsjbtcFo.cxbgcrnbocfc.euowbocjfocrnq,ckqecpqjbcuowoqro
ebfpqo,crfpchbsoacgfwbocpqjbrnbebcsocfcnuabcrfaaqoc.efaab.chxcfcnbfyx
.efxcnqepb,cpu..bovxcpnqugb.cfgcnsjcfpcnbc.eqybcifpg:c“Nbxcgnbeb,cAbejfo
nfggbe”chfrvsoacfgcgnbcgqicqkcnspcyqs bcfo.ciqsogsoacfgcnsj--gnbcxquoa
jfocpgqiib.cpu..bovxcfo.c vug nb.cgebjuvqupvxcfgcnspcnfgtcSgcrfpcfcgfvv
equo.cnfgckeqjcZsjjbejfo’p,chugc qjivbgbvxcrqeocqug,ceupgxcrsgncfab,cfvv
gqeocfo.chbpifggbeb.,chesjvbppcfo.chbogcqocqobcps.bcsocfcjqpgcuopbbjvx
kfpnsqotcOqgcpnfjb,cnqrbybe,chugclusgbcfoqgnbeckbbvsoacfwsocgqcgbeeqe
nf.cqybegfwbocnsjt

“Scwobrcsg,”cnbcjuggbeb.csoc qokupsqo,c“Scgnquangcpq!cGnfg’pcgnbcrqepg
qkcfvv!cRnx,cfcpguis.cgnsoacvswbcgnsp,cgnbcjqpgcgesysfvc.bgfsvcjsang
piqsvcgnbcrnqvbcivfotcXbp,cjxcnfgcspcgqqcoqgs bfhvbttttcSgcvqqwpcfhpue.
fo.cgnfgcjfwbpcsgcoqgs bfhvbttttcRsgncjxcefapcScquangcgqcrbfecfc fi,cfox
pqegcqkcqv.cifo fwb,chugcoqgcgnspcaeqgbplubcgnsoatcOqhq.xcrbfepcpu n
fcnfg,csgcrquv.chbcoqgs b.cfcjsvbcqkk,csgcrquv.chbcebjbjhbeb.ttttcRnfg
jfggbepcspcgnfgcibqivbcrquv.cebjbjhbecsg,cfo.cgnfgcrquv.casybcgnbj
fc vubtcKqecgnspchupsobppcqobcpnquv.chbcfpcvsggvbc qopis uqupcfp
iqppshvbttttcGeskvbp,cgeskvbpcfebcrnfgcjfggbe!cRnx,csg’pcmupgcpu n
geskvbpcgnfgcfvrfxpceusocbybexgnsoatttt”

Nbcnf.coqgckfecgqcaq;cnbcwobrcso.bb.cnqrcjfoxcpgbipcsgcrfpckeqjcgnbcafgb
qkcnspcvq.asoacnqupb:cbdf gvxcpbybocnuo.eb.cfo.cgnsegxtcNbcnf.c quogb.
gnbjcqo bcrnbocnbcnf.chbbocvqpgcsoc.ebfjptcFgcgnbcgsjbcnbcnf.ciugcoq
kfsgncsocgnqpbc.ebfjpcfo.crfpcqovxcgfogfvspsoacnsjpbvkchxcgnbsecns.bqup
hugc.fesoaceb wvbppobpptcOqr,cfcjqogncvfgbe,cnbcnf.chbauocgqcvqqwcuiqo
gnbjc.skkbebogvx,cfo.,csocpisgbcqkcgnbcjqoqvqaubpcsocrns ncnbcmbbeb.cfg
nspcqrocsjiqgbo bcfo.cso.b spsqo,cnbcnf.csoyqvuogfesvxc qjbcgqcebafe.
gnspc“ns.bqup”c.ebfjcfpcfocbdivqsgcgqchbcfggbjigb.,cfvgnquancnb
pgsvvc.s.coqgcebfvspbcgnspcnsjpbvktcNbcrfpciqpsgsybvxcaqsoacoqrckqecf
“ebnbfepfv”cqkcnspcieqmb g,cfo.cfgcbybexcpgbicnspcbd sgbjbogcaebrcjqeb
fo.cjqebcysqvbogt

Rsgncfcpsowsoacnbfegcfo.cfcobeyqupcgebjqe,cnbcrbogcuicgqcfcnuabcnqupb
rns ncqocqobcps.bcvqqwb.cqocgqcgnbc fofv,cfo.cqocgnbcqgnbecsogqcgnb
pgebbgtcGnspcnqupbcrfpcvbgcqugcsocgsoxcgbobjbogpcfo.crfpcsonfhsgb.chx
rqewsoacibqivbcqkcfvvcwso.p--gfsvqep,cvq wpjsgnp,c qqwp,cAbejfopcqk
pqegp,casevpcis wsoacuicfcvsysoacfpchbpgcgnbxc quv.,cibggxc vbewp,cbg t
Gnbebcrfpcfc qogsoufvc qjsoacfo.caqsoacgnequancgnbcgrqcafgbpcfo.csocgnb
grqc quegxfe.pcqkcgnbcnqupbtcGnebbcqeckquec.qqe-wbbibepcrbebcbjivqxb.cqo
gnbchusv.soatcGnbcxquoacjfocrfpcybexcavf.cgqcjbbgcoqobcqkcgnbj,cfo.
fgcqo bcpvsiib.cuooqgs b.cgnequancgnbc.qqecqocgnbcesang,cfo.cuicgnb
pgfse fpbtcSgcrfpcfchf wcpgfse fpb,c.fewcfo.cofeeqr,chugcnbcrfpckfjsvsfe
rsgncsgcfvebf.x,cfo.cwobrcnspcrfx,cfo.cnbcvswb.cfvvcgnbpbcpueequo.soap:
socpu nc.fewobppcbybocgnbcjqpgcsoluspsgsybcbxbpcrbebcoqgcgqchbc.ebf.b.t

“SkcScfjcpqcp feb.coqr,crnfgcrquv.csgchbcskcsgcpqjbnqrc fjbcgqcifppcgnfg
Scrbebcebfvvxcaqsoacgqc.qcsg?”cnbc quv.coqgcnbvicfpwsoacnsjpbvkcfpcnb
ebf nb.cgnbckquegncpgqebxtcGnbebcnspcieqaebppcrfpchfeeb.chxcpqjbciqegbep
rnqcrbebcboafab.csocjqysoackueosguebcqugcqkcfckvfgtcNbcwobrcgnfgcgnb
kvfgcnf.chbbocq  uisb.chxcfcAbejfoc vbewcsocgnbc sysvcpbeys b,cfo.cnsp
kfjsvxtcGnspcAbejfocrfpcjqysoacqugcgnbo,cfo.cpqcgnbckquegnckvqqecqocgnsp
pgfse fpbcrquv.chbcuogbofogb.cbd bigchxcgnbcqv.crqjfotc“Gnfg’pcfcaqq.
gnsoacfoxrfx,”cnbcgnquangcgqcnsjpbvk,cfpcnbcefoacgnbchbvvcqkcgnbcqv.
rqjfo’pckvfgtcGnbchbvvcafybcfckfsogcgsowvbcfpcgnquancsgcrbebcjf.bcqk
gsocfo.coqgcqkc qiibetcGnbcvsggvbckvfgpcsocpu ncnqupbpcfvrfxpcnfybchbvvp
gnfgcesoacvswbcgnfgtcNbcnf.ckqeaqggbocgnbcoqgbcqkcgnfgchbvv,cfo.coqr
sgpcib uvsfecgsowvbcpbbjb.cgqcebjso.cnsjcqkcpqjbgnsoacfo.cgqchesoacsg
 vbfevxchbkqebcnsjttttcNbcpgfegb.,cnspcobeybpcrbebcgbeeshvxcqybepgefsob.
hxcoqrtcSocfcvsggvbcrnsvb,cgnbc.qqecrfpcqibob.cfcgsoxc ef w:cgnbcqv.
rqjfocbxb.cnbecyspsgqecrsgncbys.bogc.spgeupgcgnequancgnbc ef w,cfo.
oqgnsoac quv.chbcpbbochugcnbecvsggvbcbxbp,cavsggbesoacsocgnbc.fewobppt
Hug,cpbbsoacfcoujhbecqkcibqivbcqocgnbcvfo.soa,cpnbcaebrchqv.be,cfo.
qibob.cgnbc.qqecrs.btcGnbcxquoacjfocpgbiib.csogqcgnbc.fewcbogex,crns n
rfpcifegsgsqob.cqkkckeqjcgnbcgsoxcwsg nbotcGnbcqv.crqjfocpgqq.ckf soa
nsjcsocpsvbo bcfo.cvqqwsoacsolusesoavxcfgcnsjtcPnbcrfpcfc.sjsougsyb,
rsgnbeb.cuicqv.crqjfocqkcpsdgx,crsgncpnfeicjfvsaofogcbxbpcfo.cfcpnfei
vsggvbcoqpbtcNbec qvquevbpp,cpqjbrnfgcaeszzvb.cnfsecrfpcgns wvxcpjbfeb.
rsgncqsv,cfo.cpnbcrqebcoqcwbe nsbkcqybecsgtcEquo.cnbecgnsocvqoacob w,
rns ncvqqwb.cvswbcfcnbo’pcvba,crfpcwoqggb.cpqjbcpqegcqkckvfoobvcefa,
fo.,csocpisgbcqkcgnbcnbfg,cgnbebcnuoackvfiisoacqocnbecpnquv.bep,cfcjfoax
kuec fib,cxbvvqrcrsgncfabtcGnbcqv.crqjfoc quanb.cfo.caeqfob.cfgcbybex
sopgfogtcGnbcxquoacjfocjupgcnfybcvqqwb.cfgcnbecrsgncfcefgnbecib uvsfe
bdiebppsqo,ckqecfcavbfjcqkcjspgeupgc fjbcsogqcnbecbxbpcfafsot

“Efpwqvoswqy,cfcpgu.bog,cSc fjbcnbebcfcjqogncfaq,”cgnbcxquoacjfocjf.b
nfpgbcgqcjuggbe,crsgncfcnfvkchqr,cebjbjhbesoacgnfgcnbcquangcgqchbcjqeb
iqvsgbt

“Scebjbjhbe,cjxcaqq.cpse,cScebjbjhbeclusgbcrbvvcxquec qjsoacnbeb,”cgnb
qv.crqjfocpfs.c.spgso gvx,cpgsvvcwbbisoacnbecsolusesoacbxbpcqocnspckf bt

“Fo.cnbebtttcScfjcfafsocqocgnbcpfjbcbeefo.,”cEfpwqvoswqyc qogsoub.,cf
vsggvbc.sp qo begb.cfo.cpueiespb.cfgcgnbcqv.crqjfo’pcjspgeupgtc“Ibenfip
pnbcspcfvrfxpcvswbcgnfgcgnquan,cqovxcSc.s.coqgcoqgs bcsgcgnbcqgnbe
gsjb,”cnbcgnquangcrsgncfocuobfpxckbbvsoat

Gnbcqv.crqjfocifupb.,cfpcgnquancnbpsgfgsoa;cgnbocpgbiib.cqocqobcps.b,
fo.ciqsogsoacgqcgnbc.qqecqkcgnbceqqj,cpnbcpfs.,cvbggsoacnbecyspsgqecifpp
sockeqogcqkcnbe:

“Pgbicso,cjxcaqq.cpset”

Gnbcvsggvbceqqjcsogqcrns ncgnbcxquoacjfocrfvwb.,crsgncxbvvqrcifibecqo
gnbcrfvvp,cabefosujpcfo.cjupvsoc uegfsopcsocgnbcrso.qrp,crfpchesangvx
vsangb.cuicfgcgnfgcjqjbogchxcgnbcpbggsoacpuot

“Pqcgnbcpuocrsvvcpnsobcvswbcgnspc_gnbo_cgqq!”ckvfpnb.cfpcsgcrbebchx
 nfo bcgnequancEfpwqvoswqy’pcjso.,cfo.crsgncfcefis.cavfo bcnbcp foob.
bybexgnsoacsocgnbceqqj,cgexsoacfpckfecfpciqppshvbcgqcoqgs bcfo.
ebjbjhbecsgpcfeefoabjbogtcHugcgnbebcrfpcoqgnsoacpib sfvcsocgnbceqqjtcGnb
kueosgueb,cfvvcybexcqv.cfo.cqkcxbvvqrcrqq.,c qopspgb.cqkcfcpqkfcrsgn
fcnuabchbogcrqq.bochf w,cfocqyfvcgfhvbcsockeqogcqkcgnbcpqkf,cf
.ebppsoa-gfhvbcrsgncfcvqqwsoa-avfppcksdb.cqocsgchbgrbbocgnbcrso.qrp,
 nfsepcfvqoacgnbcrfvvpcfo.cgrqcqecgnebbcnfvk-ibooxciesogpcsocxbvvqr
kefjbp,cebiebpbogsoacAbejfoc.fjpbvpcrsgnchse.pcsocgnbsecnfo.p--gnfgcrfp
fvvtcSocgnbc qeobecfcvsangcrfpchueosoachbkqebcfcpjfvvcswqotcBybexgnsoa
rfpcybexc vbfo;cgnbckvqqecfo.cgnbckueosguebcrbebchesangvxciqvspnb.;
bybexgnsoacpnqobt

“Vszfybgf’pcrqew,”cgnquangcgnbcxquoacjfotcGnbebcrfpcoqgcfcpib wcqkc.upg
gqchbcpbbocsocgnbcrnqvbckvfgt

“Sg’pcsocgnbcnqupbpcqkcpisgbkuvcqv.crs.qrpcgnfgcqobckso.pcpu n
 vbfovsobpp,”cEfpwqvoswqycgnquangcfafso,cfo.cnbcpgqvbcfc uesqupcavfo b
fgcgnbc qggqoc uegfsocqybecgnbc.qqecvbf.soacsogqcfoqgnbecgsoxceqqj,cso
rns ncpgqq.cgnbcqv.crqjfo’pchb.cfo.c nbpgcqkc.efrbepcfo.csogqcrns ncnb
nf.cobybecvqqwb.chbkqebtcGnbpbcgrqceqqjpcjf.bcuicgnbcrnqvbckvfgt

“Rnfgc.qcxqucrfog?”cgnbcqv.crqjfocpfs.cpbybebvx,c qjsoacsogqcgnbceqqj
fo.,cfpchbkqeb,cpgfo.soacsockeqogcqkcnsjcpqcfpcgqcvqqwcnsjcpgefsangcso
gnbckf bt

“S’ybchequangcpqjbgnsoacgqcifrocnbeb,”cfo.cnbc.ebrcqugcqkcnspciq wbg
focqv.-kfpnsqob.ckvfgcpsvybecrfg n,cqocgnbchf wcqkcrns ncrfpcboaefyb.cf
avqhb;cgnbc nfsocrfpcqkcpgbbvt

“Hugcgnbcgsjbcspcuickqecxquecvfpgcivb.abtcGnbcjqogncrfpcuicgnbc.fx
hbkqebcxbpgbe.fxt”

“Scrsvvchesoacxqucgnbcsogbebpgckqecfoqgnbecjqogn;crfsgcfcvsggvbt”

“Hugcgnfg’pckqecjbcgqc.qcfpcScivbfpb,cjxcaqq.cpse,cgqcrfsgcqecgqcpbvv
xquecivb.abcfgcqo bt”

“Nqrcju ncrsvvcxqucasybcjbckqecgnbcrfg n,cFvxqofcSyfoqyof?”

“Xquc qjbcrsgncpu ncgeskvbp,cjxcaqq.cpse,csg’pcp fe bvxcrqegncfoxgnsoat
Scafybcxqucgrqcequhvbpcvfpgcgsjbckqecxquecesoacfo.cqobc quv.chuxcsg
lusgbcobrcfgcfcmbrbvbe’pckqecfcequhvbcfo.cfcnfvkt”

“Asybcjbckquecequhvbpckqecsg,cScpnfvvceb.bbjcsg,csgcrfpcjxckfgnbe’ptcS
pnfvvchbcabggsoacpqjbcjqobxcpqqot”

“Fcequhvbcfo.cfcnfvk,cfo.csogbebpgcsocf.yfo b,cskcxqucvswb!”

“Fcequhvbcfo.cfcnfvk!”c esb.cgnbcxquoacjfot

“Ivbfpbcxquepbvk”--fo.cgnbcqv.crqjfocnfo.b.cnsjchf wcgnbcrfg ntcGnb
xquoacjfocgqqwcsg,cfo.crfpcpqcfoaexcgnfgcnbcrfpcqocgnbciqsogcqkcaqsoa
frfx;chugc nb wb.cnsjpbvkcfgcqo b,cebjbjhbesoacgnfgcgnbebcrfpcoqrnbeb
bvpbcnbc quv.caq,cfo.cgnfgcnbcnf.cnf.cfoqgnbecqhmb gcfvpqcsoc qjsoat

“Nfo.csgcqybe,”cnbcpfs.cequanvxt

Gnbcqv.crqjfockujhvb.csocnbeciq wbgckqecnbecwbxp,cfo.c.spfiibfeb.chbnso.
gnbc uegfsocsogqcgnbcqgnbeceqqjtcGnbcxquoacjfo,cvbkgcpgfo.soacfvqobcso
gnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbceqqj,cvspgbob.csoluspsgsybvx,cgnsowsoatcNbc quv.cnbfe
nbecuovq wsoacgnbc nbpgcqkc.efrbept

“Sgcjupgchbcgnbcgqic.efrbe,”cnbcebkvb gb.tc“Pqcpnbc feesbpcgnbcwbxpcso
fciq wbgcqocgnbcesangtcFvvcsocqobchuo ncqocfcpgbbvcesoattttcFo.cgnbeb’p
qobcwbxcgnbeb,cgnebbcgsjbpcfpchsacfpcfvvcgnbcqgnbep,crsgnc.bbicoqg nbp;
gnfgc fo’gchbcgnbcwbxcqkcgnbc nbpgcqkc.efrbeptttcgnbocgnbebcjupgchbcpqjb
qgnbec nbpgcqecpgeqoa-hqdtttcgnfg’pcrqegncwoqrsoatcPgeqoa-hqdbpcfvrfxp
nfybcwbxpcvswbcgnfgtttchugcnqrc.baef.soacsgcfvvcspt”

Gnbcqv.crqjfoc fjbchf wt

“Nbeb,cpse:cfpcrbcpfxcgboc qib wpcgnbcequhvbcfcjqogn,cpqcScjupgcgfwb
kskgbboc qib wpckeqjcfcequhvbcfo.cfcnfvkckqecgnbcjqogncsocf.yfo btcHug
kqecgnbcgrqcequhvbpcScvbogcxquchbkqeb,cxqucqrbcjbcoqrcgrbogxc qib wp
qocgnbcpfjbceb wqosoacsocf.yfo btcGnfgcjfwbpcgnsegx-ksybc qib wp
fvgqabgnbetcPqcScjupgcasybcxqucfcequhvbcfo.ckskgbboc qib wpckqecgnb
rfg ntcNbebcsgcspt”

“Rnfg!cqovxcfcequhvbcfo.ckskgbboc qib wpcoqr!”

“Mupgcpqt”

Gnbcxquoacjfoc.s.coqgc.spiugbcsgcfo.cgqqwcgnbcjqobxtcNbcvqqwb.cfgcgnb
qv.crqjfo,cfo.crfpcsocoqcnueexcgqcabgcfrfx,cfpcgnquancgnbebcrfpcpgsvv
pqjbgnsoacnbcrfogb.cgqcpfxcqecgqc.q,chugcnbc.s.coqgcnsjpbvkclusgbcwoqr
rnfgt

“Scjfxchbchesoasoacxqucpqjbgnsoacbvpbcsocfc.fxcqecgrq,cFvxqof
Syfoqyof--fcyfvufhvbcgnsoa--psvybe--fc safebggb-hqd,cfpcpqqocfpcScabgcsg
hf wckeqjcfckesbo.ttt”cnbcheqwbcqkkcsoc qokupsqot

“Rbvv,crbcrsvvcgfvwcfhqugcsgcgnbo,cpset”

“Aqq.-hxb--febcxqucfvrfxpcfgcnqjbcfvqob,cxquecpspgbecspcoqgcnbebcrsgn
xqu?”cNbcfpwb.cnbecfpc fpufvvxcfpciqppshvbcfpcnbcrbogcqugcsogqcgnb
ifppfabt

“Rnfgchupsobppcspcpnbcqkcxquep,cjxcaqq.cpse?”

“Qn,coqgnsoacifegs uvfe,cScpsjivxcfpwb.tcXqucfebcgqqclus wttttcAqq.-.fx,
FvxqofcSyfoqyoft”

Efpwqvoswqycrbogcqugcsoc qjivbgbc qokupsqotcGnspc qokupsqochb fjbcjqeb
fo.cjqebcsogbopbtcFpcnbcrbogc.qrocgnbcpgfsep,cnbcbybocpgqiib.cpnqeg,cgrq
qecgnebbcgsjbp,cfpcgnquancpu..bovxcpgeu wchxcpqjbcgnquangtcRnbocnbcrfp
socgnbcpgebbgcnbc esb.cqug,c“Qn,cAq.,cnqrcvqfgnpqjbcsgcfvvcsp!cfo.
 focS,c focSciqppshvxttttcOq,csg’pcoqopbopb,csg’pceuhhspn!”cnbcf..b.
ebpqvugbvxtc“Fo.cnqrc quv.cpu ncfocfgeq squpcgnsoac qjbcsogqcjxcnbf.?
Rnfgcksvgnxcgnsoapcjxcnbfegcspc fifhvbcqktcXbp,cksvgnxcfhqybcfvv,
.spaupgsoa,cvqfgnpqjb,cvqfgnpqjb!--fo.ckqecfcrnqvbcjqogncS’ybchbbotttt”
cHugcoqcrqe.p,coqcbd vfjfgsqop,c quv.cbdiebppcnspcfasgfgsqotcGnbckbbvsoa
qkcsogbopbcebiuvpsqo,crns ncnf.chbauocgqcqiiebppcfo.cgqeguebcnspcnbfeg
rnsvbcnbcrfpcqocnspcrfxcgqcgnbcqv.crqjfo,cnf.chxcoqrcebf nb.cpu ncf
isg ncfo.cnf.cgfwbocpu ncfc.bksosgbckqejcgnfgcnbc.s.coqgcwoqrcrnfgcgq
.qcrsgncnsjpbvkcgqcbp fibckeqjcnspcrebg nb.obpptcNbcrfvwb.cfvqoacgnb
ifybjbogcvswbcfc.euowbocjfo,cebafe.vbppcqkcgnbcifppbep-hx,cfo.cmqpgvsoa
fafsopgcgnbj,cfo.cqovxc fjbcgqcnspcpbopbpcrnbocnbcrfpcsocgnbcobdg
pgebbgtcVqqwsoacequo.,cnbcoqgs b.cgnfgcnbcrfpcpgfo.soac vqpbcgqcfcgfybeo
rns ncrfpcbogbeb.chxcpgbipcvbf.soackeqjcgnbcifybjbogcgqcgnbchfpbjbogt
Fgcgnfgcsopgfogcgrqc.euowbocjboc fjbcqugcfgcgnbc.qqe,cfo.cfhupsoacfo.
puiiqegsoacqobcfoqgnbe,cgnbxcjquogb.cgnbcpgbiptcRsgnqugcpgqiisoacgq
gnsow,cEfpwqvoswqycrbogc.qrocgnbcpgbipcfgcqo btcGsvvcgnfgcjqjbogcnbcnf.
obybechbbocsogqcfcgfybeo,chugcoqrcnbckbvgcas..xcfo.crfpcgqejbogb.chxcf
hueosoacgnsepgtcNbcvqoab.ckqecfc.esowcqkc qv.chbbe,cfo.cfggeshugb.cnsp
pu..bocrbfwobppcgqcgnbcrfogcqkckqq.tcNbcpfgc.qrocfgcfcpgs wxcvsggvb
gfhvbcsocfc.fewcfo.c.segxc qeobe;cqe.beb.cpqjbchbbe,cfo.cbfabevxc.efow
qkkcgnbcksepgcavfppkuvtcFgcqo bcnbckbvgcbfpsbe;cfo.cnspcgnquangpchb fjb
 vbfet

“Fvvcgnfg’pcoqopbopb,”cnbcpfs.cnqibkuvvx,c“fo.cgnbebcspcoqgnsoacsocsg
fvvcgqcrqeexcfhqug!cSg’pcpsjivxcinxps fvc.befoabjbogtcMupgcfcavfppcqk
hbbe,cfcisb bcqkc.exchebf.--fo.csocqobcjqjbogcgnbchefsocspcpgeqoabe,
gnbcjso.cspc vbfebecfo.cgnbcrsvvcspcksej!cInbr,cnqrcuggbevxcibggxcsgcfvv
sp!”

Hugcsocpisgbcqkcgnspcp qeokuvcebkvb gsqo,cnbcrfpchxcoqrcvqqwsoac nbbekuv
fpcgnquancnbcrbebcpu..bovxcpbgckebbckeqjcfcgbeeshvbchue.bo:cfo.cnbcafzb.
equo.csocfckesbo.vxcrfxcfgcgnbcibqivbcsocgnbceqqjtcHugcbybocfgcgnfg
jqjbogcnbcnf.cfc.sjckqebhq.soacgnfgcgnspcnfiisbeckefjbcqkcjso.crfpcfvpq
oqgcoqejfvt

GnbebcrbebckbrcibqivbcfgcgnbcgsjbcsocgnbcgfybeotcHbps.bpcgnbcgrqc.euowbo
jbocnbcnf.cjbgcqocgnbcpgbip,cfcaequic qopspgsoacqkcfhqugcksybcjbocfo.
fcasevcrsgncfc qo begsofcnf.caqobcqugcfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbtcGnbsec.bifegueb
vbkgcgnbceqqjclusbgcfo.cefgnbecbjigxtcGnbcibepqopcpgsvvcsocgnbcgfybeo
rbebcfcjfocrnqcfiibfeb.cgqchbcfocfegspfo,c.euow,chugcoqgcbdgebjbvxcpq,
psggsoachbkqebcfciqgcqkchbbe,cfo.cnspc qjifosqo,cfcnuab,cpgqugcjfocrsgn
fcaebxchbfe.,csocfcpnqegckuvv-pwsegb.c qfgtcNbcrfpcybexc.euow:cfo.cnf.
.eqiib.cfpvbbicqocgnbchbo n;cbybexcoqrcfo.cgnbo,cnbchbafocfpcgnquancso
nspcpvbbi,c ef wsoacnspcksoabep,crsgncnspcfejpcrs.bcfifegcfo.cgnbcuiibe
ifegcqkcnspchq.xchquo.soacfhqugcqocgnbchbo n,crnsvbcnbcnujjb.cpqjb
jbfosoavbppcebkefso,cgexsoacgqceb fvvcpqjbcpu ncvsobpcfpcgnbpb:

ccc“Nspcrskbcfcxbfecnbckqo.vxcvqyb.
ccccNspcrskbcf--fcxbfecnb--kqo.vxcvqyb.t”

Qecpu..bovxcrfwsoacuicfafso:

ccc“Rfvwsoacfvqoacgnbc eqr.b.ceqr
ccccNbcjbgcgnbcqobcnbcupb.cgqcwoqrt”

Hugcoqcqobcpnfeb.cnspcbomqxjbog:cnspcpsvbogc qjifosqocvqqwb.crsgn
iqpsgsybcnqpgsvsgxcfo.cjspgeupgcfgcfvvcgnbpbcjfoskbpgfgsqoptcGnbebcrfp
foqgnbecjfocsocgnbceqqjcrnqcvqqwb.cpqjbrnfgcvswbcfcebgseb.caqybeojbog
 vbewtcNbcrfpcpsggsoacfifeg,coqrcfo.cgnbocpsiisoackeqjcnspciqgcfo.
vqqwsoacequo.cfgcgnbc qjifoxtcNb,cgqq,cfiibfeb.cgqchbcsocpqjbcfasgfgsqot



 NFIGBEcSS

Efpwqvoswqycrfpcoqgcupb.cgqc eqr.p,cfo.,cfpcrbcpfs.chbkqeb,cnbcfyqs.b.
pq sbgxcqkcbybexcpqeg,cjqebcbpib sfvvxcqkcvfgbtcHugcoqrcfvvcfgcqo bcnb
kbvgcfc.bpsebcgqchbcrsgncqgnbecibqivbtcPqjbgnsoacobrcpbbjb.cgqchbcgfwsoa
ivf bcrsgnsocnsj,cfo.crsgncsgcnbckbvgcfcpqegcqkcgnsepgckqec qjifoxtcNb
rfpcpqcrbfexcfkgbecfcrnqvbcjqogncqkc qo bogefgb.crebg nb.obppcfo.cavqqjx
bd sgbjbogcgnfgcnbcvqoab.cgqcebpg,cskcqovxckqecfcjqjbog,csocpqjbcqgnbe
rqev.,crnfgbybecsgcjsangchb;cfo.,csocpisgbcqkcgnbcksvgnsobppcqkcgnb
pueequo.soap,cnbcrfpcavf.coqrcgqcpgfxcsocgnbcgfybeot

Gnbcjfpgbecqkcgnbcbpgfhvspnjbogcrfpcsocfoqgnbeceqqj,chugcnbckeblubogvx
 fjbc.qrocpqjbcpgbipcsogqcgnbcjfsoceqqj,cnspcmfuogx,cgfeeb.chqqgpcrsgn
eb.cgueo-qybecgqipc qjsoacsogqcysbrcbf ncgsjbchbkqebcgnbcebpgcqkcnsp
ibepqotcNbcrqebcfckuvvc qfgcfo.cfcnqeeshvxcaebfpxchvf wcpfgsocrfspg qfg,
rsgncoqc efyfg,cfo.cnspcrnqvbckf bcpbbjb.cpjbfeb.crsgncqsvcvswbcfo
seqocvq wtcFgcgnbc quogbecpgqq.cfchqxcqkcfhqugckquegbbo,cfo.cgnbebcrfp
foqgnbechqxcpqjbrnfgcxquoabecrnqcnfo.b.crnfgbybecrfpcrfogb.tcQocgnb
 quogbecvfxcpqjbcpvs b.c u ujhbe,cpqjbcisb bpcqkc.esb.chvf wchebf.,cfo.
pqjbckspn,c nqiib.cuicpjfvv,cfvvcpjbvvsoacybexchf.tcSgcrfpcsopukkbefhvx
 vqpb,cfo.cpqcnbfyxcrsgncgnbckujbpcqkcpisesgpcgnfgcksybcjsougbpcsocpu n
focfgjqpinbebcjsangcrbvvcjfwbcfcjfoc.euowt

Gnbebcfebc nfo bcjbbgsoapcrsgncpgefoabepcgnfgcsogbebpgcupckeqjcgnb
ksepgcjqjbog,chbkqebcfcrqe.cspcpiqwbotcPu ncrfpcgnbcsjiebppsqocjf.bcqo
Efpwqvoswqychxcgnbcibepqocpsggsoacfcvsggvbc.spgfo bckeqjcnsj,crnqcvqqwb.
vswbcfcebgseb.c vbewtcGnbcxquoacjfocqkgboceb fvvb.cgnspcsjiebppsqo
fkgberfe.p,cfo.cbybocfp eshb.csgcgqciebpbogsjbogtcNbcvqqwb.cebibfgb.vx
fgcgnbc vbew,cifegvxcoqc.quhgchb fupbcgnbcvfggbecrfpcpgfesoa
ibepspgbogvxcfgcnsj,cqhysqupvxcfodsqupcgqcbogbecsogqc qoybepfgsqotcFg
gnbcqgnbecibepqopcsocgnbceqqj,cso vu.soacgnbcgfybeo-wbbibe,cgnbc vbew
vqqwb.cfpcgnquancnbcrbebcupb.cgqcgnbsec qjifox,cfo.crbfexcqkcsg,cpnqrsoa
fcpnf.bcqkc qo.bp bo.soac qogbjigckqecgnbjcfpcibepqopcqkcpgfgsqocfo.
 uvguebcsokbesqecgqcnspcqro,crsgncrnqjcsgcrquv.chbcupbvbppckqecnsjcgq
 qoybepbtcNbcrfpcfcjfocqybeckskgx,chfv.cfo.caeszzvb.,cqkcjb.sujcnbsang,
fo.cpgqugvxchusvgtcNspckf b,chvqfgb.ckeqjc qogsoufvc.esowsoa,crfpcqk
fcxbvvqr,cbybocaebbospn,cgsoab,crsgncprqvvbocbxbvs.pcqugcqkcrns ncwbbo
eb..spncbxbpcavbfjb.cvswbcvsggvbc nsowptcHugcgnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoacybex
pgefoabcsocnsj;cgnbebcrfpcfcvsangcsocnspcbxbpcfpcgnquancqkcsogbopb
kbbvsoa--ibenfipcgnbebcrbebcbybocgnquangcfo.csogbvvsabo b,chugcfgcgnb
pfjbcgsjbcgnbebcrfpcfcavbfjcqkcpqjbgnsoacvswbcjf.obpptcNbcrfpcrbfesoacfo
qv.cfo.cnqibvbppvxcefaab.chvf wc.ebppc qfg,crsgncfvvcsgpchuggqopcjsppsoa
bd bigcqob,cfo.cgnfgcqobcnbcnf.chuggqob.,cbys.bogvxc vsoasoacgqcgnsp
vfpgcgef bcqkcebpib gfhsvsgxtcFc eujivb.cpnsegckeqog,c qybeb.crsgncpiqgp
fo.cpgfsop,cieqgeu.b.ckeqjcnspc foyfpcrfspg qfgtcVswbcfc vbew,cnbcrqeb
oqchbfe.,coqecjqupgf nb,chugcnf.chbbocpqcvqoacuopnfybocgnfgcnspc nso
vqqwb.cvswbcfcpgskkcaebxspncheupntcFo.cgnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoacebpib gfhvb
fo.cvswbcfocqkks sfvcfhqugcnspcjfoobecgqqtcHugcnbcrfpcebpgvbpp;cnb
eukkvb.cuicnspcnfsecfo.ckeqjcgsjbcgqcgsjbcvbgcnspcnbf.c.eqicsogqcnsp
nfo.pc.bmb gb.vxcebpgsoacnspcefaab.cbvhqrpcqocgnbcpgfsob.cfo.cpgs wx
gfhvbtcFgcvfpgcnbcvqqwb.cpgefsangcfgcEfpwqvoswqy,cfo.cpfs.cvqu.vxcfo.
ebpqvugbvx:

“JfxcScybogueb,cnqoqueb.cpse,cgqcboafabcxqucsociqvsgbc qoybepfgsqo?
Kqefpju ncfp,cgnquancxquecbdgbesqecrquv.coqgc qjjfo.cebpib g,cjx
bdibesbo bcf.jqospnbpcjbcgnfgcxqucfebcfcjfocqkcb.u fgsqocfo.coqg
f  upgqjb.cgqc.esowsoatcScnfybcfvrfxpcebpib gb.cb.u fgsqocrnbocso
 qomuo gsqocrsgncabousobcpbogsjbogp,cfo.cScfjchbps.bpcfcgsguvfe
 quopbvvqecsocefowtcJfejbvf.qy--pu ncspcjxcofjb;cgsguvfec quopbvvqetcS
jfwbchqv.cgqcsoluseb--nfybcxquchbbocsocgnbcpbeys b?”

“Oq,cScfjcpgu.xsoa,”cfoprbeb.cgnbcxquoacjfo,cpqjbrnfgcpueiespb.cfg
gnbcaefo.svqlubogcpgxvbcqkcgnbcpibfwbecfo.cfvpqcfgchbsoacpqc.seb gvx
f..ebppb.tcSocpisgbcqkcgnbcjqjbogfexc.bpsebcnbcnf.cmupgchbbockbbvsoackqe
 qjifoxcqkcfoxcpqeg,cqochbsoacf gufvvxcpiqwbocgqcnbckbvgcsjjb.sfgbvxcnsp
nfhsgufvcseesgfhvbcfo.cuobfpxcfybepsqockqecfoxcpgefoabecrnqcfiieqf nb.
qecfggbjigb.cgqcfiieqf ncnsjt

“Fcpgu.bogcgnbo,cqeckqejbevxcfcpgu.bog,”c esb.cgnbc vbewtc“Mupgcrnfg
Scgnquang!cS’jcfcjfocqkcbdibesbo b,csjjbopbcbdibesbo b,cpse,”cfo.cnb
gfiib.cnspckqebnbf.crsgncnspcksoabepcsocpbvk-fiieqyfvtc“Xqu’ybchbbocf
pgu.bogcqecnfybcfggbo.b.cpqjbcvbfeob.csopgsgugsqo!tttcHugcfvvqrcjbtttt”
cNbcaqgcui,cpgfaabeb.,cgqqwcuicnspcmuacfo.cavfpp,cfo.cpfgc.qrochbps.b
gnbcxquoacjfo,ckf soacnsjcfcvsggvbcps.brfxptcNbcrfpc.euow,chugcpiqwb
kvubogvxcfo.chqv.vx,cqovxcq  fpsqofvvxcvqpsoacgnbcgnebf.cqkcnsp
pbogbo bpcfo.c.efrvsoacnspcrqe.ptcNbciquo b.cuiqocEfpwqvoswqycfp
aebb.svxcfpcgnquancnbcgqqcnf.coqgcpiqwbocgqcfcpquvckqecfcjqognt

“Nqoqueb.cpse,”cnbchbafocfvjqpgcrsgncpqvbjosgx,c“iqybegxcspcoqgcfcys b,
gnfg’pcfcgeubcpfxsoatcXbgcScwoqrcgqqcgnfgc.euowboobppcspcoqgcfcysegub,
fo.cgnfgcgnfg’pcbybocgeubetcHugchbaafex,cnqoqueb.cpse,chbaafexcspcf
ys btcSociqybegxcxqucjfxcpgsvvcebgfsocxquecsoofgbcoqhsvsgxcqkcpquv,chug
sochbaafex--obybe--oqcqobtcKqechbaafexcfcjfocspcoqgc nfpb.cqugcqkcnujfo
pq sbgxcrsgncfcpgs w,cnbcspcprbigcqugcrsgncfcheqqj,cpqcfpcgqcjfwbcsgcfp
nujsvsfgsoacfpciqppshvb;cfo.clusgbcesang,cgqq,ckqefpju ncfpcsochbaafex
Scfjcebf.xcgqchbcgnbcksepgcgqcnujsvsfgbcjxpbvktcNbo bcgnbciqg-nqupb!
Nqoqueb.cpse,cfcjqogncfaqcJetcVbhbzsfgoswqycafybcjxcrskbcfchbfgsoa,cfo.
jxcrskbcspcfcybexc.skkbebogcjfggbeckeqjcjb!c.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.?cFvvqrcjb
gqcfpwcxqucfoqgnbeclubpgsqocqugcqkcpsjivbc uesqpsgx:cnfybcxqucbybecpibog
fcosangcqocfcnfxchfeab,cqocgnbcObyf?”

“Oq,cScnfybcoqgcnfiibob.cgq,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqytc“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfo?”

“Rbvv,cS’ybcmupgc qjbckeqjcqobcfo.csg’pcgnbckskgncosangcS’ybcpvbig
pqtttt”cNbcksvvb.cnspcavfpp,cbjigsb.csgcfo.cifupb.tcHsgpcqkcnfxcrbebcso
kf gc vsoasoacgqcnspc vqgnbpcfo.cpgs wsoacgqcnspcnfsetcSgcpbbjb.clusgb
ieqhfhvbcgnfgcnbcnf.coqgcuo.ebppb.cqecrfpnb.ckqecgnbcvfpgcksybc.fxpt
Nspcnfo.p,cifegs uvfevx,crbebcksvgnxtcGnbxcrbebckfgcfo.ceb.,crsgnchvf w
ofsvpt

Nspc qoybepfgsqocpbbjb.cgqcbd sgbcfcabobefvcgnquancvfoaus.csogbebpgtcGnb
hqxpcfgcgnbc quogbeckbvvcgqcposaabesoatcGnbcsoowbbibec fjbc.qrockeqjcgnb
uiibeceqqj,cfiifebogvxcqociueiqpbcgqcvspgbocgqcgnbc“kuooxckbvvqr”
cfo.cpfgc.qrocfgcfcvsggvbc.spgfo b,cxfrosoacvfzsvx,chugcrsgnc.saosgxt
Bys.bogvxcJfejbvf.qycrfpcfckfjsvsfecksauebcnbeb,cfo.cnbcnf.cjqpg
vswbvxcf luseb.cnspcrbfwobppckqecnsan-kvqrocpibb nbpckeqjcgnbcnfhsgcqk
keblubogvxcbogbesoacsogqc qoybepfgsqocrsgncpgefoabepcqkcfvvcpqegpcso
gnbcgfybeotcGnspcnfhsgc.bybvqipcsogqcfcob bppsgxcsocpqjbc.euowfe.p,cfo.
bpib sfvvxcsocgnqpbcrnqcfebcvqqwb.cfkgbecpnfeivxcfo.cwbigcsocqe.be
fgcnqjbtcNbo bcsocgnbc qjifoxcqkcqgnbec.esowbepcgnbxcgexcgqcmupgskx
gnbjpbvybpcfo.cbybocskciqppshvbcqhgfsoc qops.befgsqot

“Kuooxckbvvqr!”cieqoquo b.cgnbcsoowbbibetc“Fo.crnxc.qo’gcxqucrqew,crnx
febo’gcxqucfgcxquec.ugx,cskcxqucfebcsocgnbcpbeys b?”

“RnxcfjcScoqgcfgcjxc.ugx,cnqoqueb.cpse,”cJfejbvf.qycrbogcqo,cf..ebppsoa
nsjpbvkcbd vupsybvxcgqcEfpwqvoswqy,cfpcgnquancsgcnf.chbbocnbcrnqciug
gnfgclubpgsqocgqcnsjtc“RnxcfjcScoqgcfgcjxc.ugx?c.qbpcoqgcjxcnbfegcf nb
gqcgnsowcrnfgcfcupbvbppcrqejcScfj?cFcjqogncfaqcrnbocJetcVbhbzsfgoswqy
hbfgcjxcrskbcrsgncnspcqrocnfo.p,cfo.cScvfxc.euow,c.s.o’gcScpukkbe?
Bd upbcjb,cxquoacjfo,cnfpcsgcbybecnfiibob.cgqcxqutttcnjtttcrbvv,cgq
ibgsgsqocnqibvbppvxckqecfcvqfo?”

“Xbp,csgcnfptcHugcrnfgc.qcxqucjbfochxcnqibvbppvx?”

“Nqibvbppvxcsocgnbckuvvbpgcpbopb,crnbocxqucwoqrchbkqebnfo.cgnfgcxqu
rsvvcabgcoqgnsoachxcsgtcXqucwoqr,ckqecsopgfo b,chbkqebnfo.crsgnciqpsgsyb
 begfsogxcgnfgcgnspcjfo,cgnspcjqpgcebiugfhvbcfo.cbdbjivfexc sgszbo,crsvv
qocoqc qops.befgsqocasybcxqucjqobx;cfo.cso.bb.cScfpwcxqucrnxcpnquv.cnb?
Kqecnbcwoqrpcqkc quepbcgnfgcScpnfo’gcifxcsgchf wtcKeqjc qjifppsqo?cHug
JetcVbhbzsfgoswqycrnqcwbbipcuicrsgncjq.beocs.bfpcbdivfsob.cgnbcqgnbec.fx
gnfgc qjifppsqocspckqehs..bocoqrf.fxpchxcp sbo bcsgpbvk,cfo.cgnfgcgnfg’p
rnfgcspc.qobcoqrcsocBoavfo.,crnbebcgnbebcspciqvsgs fvcb qoqjxtcRnx,cS
fpwcxqu,cpnquv.cnbcasybcsgcgqcjb?cFo.cxbgcgnquancScwoqrchbkqebnfo.cgnfg
nbcrqo’g,cScpbgcqkkcgqcnsjcfo.ttt”

“Rnxc.qcxqucaq?”ciugcsocEfpwqvoswqyt

“Rbvv,crnbocqobcnfpcoqcqob,coqrnbebcbvpbcqobc focaq!cKqecbybexcjfocjupg
nfybcpqjbrnbebcgqcaqtcPso bcgnbebcfebcgsjbpcrnbocqobcfhpqvugbvxcjupg
aqcpqjbrnbeb!cRnbocjxcqroc.fuangbecksepgcrbogcqugcrsgncfcxbvvqrcgs wbg,
gnbocScnf.cgqcaqtttc(kqecjxc.fuangbecnfpcfcxbvvqrcifppiqeg),”cnbcf..b.
socifebognbpsp,cvqqwsoacrsgncfc begfsocuobfpsobppcfgcgnbcxquoacjfot
“Oqcjfggbe,cpse,coqcjfggbe!”cnbcrbogcqocnueesb.vxcfo.crsgncfiifebog
 qjiqpuebcrnbochqgncgnbchqxpcfgcgnbc quogbecaukkfrb.cfo.cbybocgnb
soowbbibecpjsvb.--“Oqcjfggbe,cScfjcoqgc qokquo.b.chxcgnbcrfaasoacqk
gnbsecnbf.p;ckqecbybexqobcwoqrpcbybexgnsoacfhqugcsgcfvebf.x,cfo.cfvv
gnfgcspcpb ebgcspcjf.bcqibotcFo.cScf  bigcsgcfvv,coqgcrsgnc qogbjig,chug
rsgncnujsvsgxtcPqchbcsg!cPqchbcsg!c‘Hbnqv.cgnbcjfo!’cBd upbcjb,cxquoa
jfo,c focxquttttcOq,cgqciugcsgcjqebcpgeqoavxcfo.cjqebc.spgso gvx;coqg
_ fo_cxquchugc_.feb_cxqu,cvqqwsoacuiqocjb,cfppbegcgnfgcScfjcoqgcfcisa?”

Gnbcxquoacjfoc.s.coqgcfoprbecfcrqe.t

“Rbvv,”cgnbcqefgqechbafocfafsocpgqvs.vxcfo.crsgncbybocso ebfpb.c.saosgx,
fkgbecrfsgsoackqecgnbcvfuangbecsocgnbceqqjcgqcpuhps.btc“Rbvv,cpqchb
sg,cScfjcfcisa,chugcpnbcspcfcvf.x!cScnfybcgnbcpbjhvfo bcqkcfchbfpg,chug
WfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cjxcpiqupb,cspcfcibepqocqkcb.u fgsqocfo.cfocqkks be’p
.fuangbetcAefogb.,caefogb.,cScfjcfcp quo.ebv,chugcpnbcspcfcrqjfocqkcf
oqhvbcnbfeg,ckuvvcqkcpbogsjbogp,cebksob.chxcb.u fgsqotcFo.cxbgtttcqn,
skcqovxcpnbckbvgckqecjb!cNqoqueb.cpse,cnqoqueb.cpse,cxqucwoqrcbybexcjfo
quangcgqcnfybcfgcvbfpgcqobcivf bcrnbebcibqivbckbbvckqecnsj!cHugcWfgbesof
Syfoqyof,cgnquancpnbcspcjfaofosjqup,cpnbcspcuomupgttttcFo.cxbg,cfvgnquan
Scebfvspbcgnfgcrnbocpnbciuvvpcjxcnfsecpnbcqovxc.qbpcsgcqugcqkcisgx--kqe
Scebibfgcrsgnqugchbsoacfpnfjb.,cpnbciuvvpcjxcnfse,cxquoacjfo,”cnb
.b vfeb.crsgnceb.quhvb.c.saosgx,cnbfesoacgnbcposaabesoacfafso--“hug,cjx
Aq.,cskcpnbcrquv.chugcqo bttttcHugcoq,coq!cSg’pcfvvcsocyfsocfo.csg’pcoq
upbcgfvwsoa!cOqcupbcgfvwsoa!cKqecjqebcgnfocqo b,cjxcrspnc.s.c qjbcgeub
fo.cjqebcgnfocqo bcpnbcnfpckbvgckqecjbchugtttcpu ncspcjxckfgbcfo.cScfjcf
hbfpgchxcofgueb!”

“Efgnbe!”cfppbogb.cgnbcsoowbbibecxfrosoatcJfejbvf.qycpgeu wcnspckspg
ebpqvugbvxcqocgnbcgfhvbt

“Pu ncspcjxckfgb!c.qcxqucwoqr,cpse,c.qcxqucwoqr,cScnfybcpqv.cnbecybex
pgq wsoapckqec.esow?cOqgcnbecpnqbp--gnfgcrquv.chbcjqebcqecvbppcsocgnb
qe.becqkcgnsoap,chugcnbecpgq wsoap,cnbecpgq wsoapcScnfybcpqv.ckqec.esow!
NbecjqnfsecpnfrvcScpqv.ckqec.esow,cfciebpbogcgqcnbecvqoacfaq,cnbecqro
ieqibegx,coqgcjsob;cfo.crbcvsybcsocfc qv.ceqqjcfo.cpnbc fuangc qv.cgnsp
rsogbecfo.cnfpchbauoc quansoacfo.cpisggsoachvqq.cgqqtcRbcnfybcgnebb
vsggvbc nsv.ebocfo.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcspcfgcrqewckeqjcjqeosoacgsvv
osang;cpnbcspcp euhhsoacfo.c vbfosoacfo.crfpnsoacgnbc nsv.ebo,ckqecpnb’p
hbbocupb.cgqc vbfovsobppckeqjcfc nsv.tcHugcnbec nbpgcspcrbfwcfo.cpnbcnfp
fcgbo.bo xcgqc qopujigsqocfo.cSckbbvcsg!c.qcxqucpuiiqpbcSc.qo’gckbbvcsg?
Fo.cgnbcjqebcSc.esowcgnbcjqebcSckbbvcsgtcGnfg’pcrnxcSc.esowcgqqtcScgex
gqckso.cpxjifgnxcfo.ckbbvsoacsoc.esowttttcSc.esowcpqcgnfgcScjfxcpukkbe
grs bcfpcju n!”cFo.cfpcgnquancsoc.bpifsecnbcvfs.cnspcnbf.c.qrocqocgnb
gfhvbt

“Xquoacjfo,”cnbcrbogcqo,cefspsoacnspcnbf.cfafso,c“socxqueckf bcScpbbjcgq
ebf.cpqjbcgequhvbcqkcjso.tcRnbocxquc fjbcsocScebf.csg,cfo.cgnfgcrfpcrnx
Scf..ebppb.cxqucfgcqo btcKqecsocuokqv.soacgqcxqucgnbcpgqexcqkcjxcvskb,cS
.qcoqgcrspncgqcjfwbcjxpbvkcfcvfuansoa-pgq wchbkqebcgnbpbcs.vbcvspgbobep,
rnqcso.bb.cwoqrcfvvcfhqugcsgcfvebf.x,chugcScfjcvqqwsoackqecfcjfo
qkckbbvsoacfo.cb.u fgsqotcWoqrcgnbocgnfgcjxcrskbcrfpcb.u fgb.csocf
nsan- vfppcp nqqvckqecgnbc.fuangbepcqkcoqhvbjbo,cfo.cqocvbfysoacpnb
.fo b.cgnbcpnfrvc.fo bchbkqebcgnbcaqybeoqecfo.cqgnbecibepqofabpckqe
rns ncpnbcrfpciebpbogb.crsgncfcaqv.cjb.fvcfo.cfc begsks fgbcqkcjbesgt
Gnbcjb.fvtttcrbvv,cgnbcjb.fvcqkc quepbcrfpcpqv.--vqoacfaq,cnjtttchugcgnb
 begsks fgbcqkcjbesgcspcsocnbecgeuowcpgsvvcfo.coqgcvqoacfaqcpnbcpnqrb.
sgcgqcquecvfo.vf.xtcFo.cfvgnquancpnbcspcjqpgc qogsoufvvxcqochf.cgbejp
rsgncgnbcvfo.vf.x,cxbgcpnbcrfogb.cgqcgbvvcpqjbqobcqecqgnbecqkcnbecifpg
nqoquepcfo.cqkcgnbcnfiixc.fxpcgnfgcfebcaqobtcSc.qo’gc qo.bjocnbeckqe
sg,cSc.qo’gchvfjbcnbe,ckqecgnbcqobcgnsoacvbkgcnbecspceb qvvb gsqocqk
gnbcifpg,cfo.cfvvcgnbcebpgcspc.upgcfo.cfpnbptcXbp,cxbp,cpnbcspcfcvf.x
qkcpisesg,ciequ.cfo.c.bgbejsob.tcPnbcp euhpcgnbckvqqepcnbepbvkcfo.cnfp
oqgnsoachugchvf wchebf.cgqcbfg,chugcrqo’gcfvvqrcnbepbvkcgqchbcgebfgb.
rsgnc.spebpib gtcGnfg’pcrnxcpnbcrquv.coqgcqybevqqwcJetcVbhbzsfgoswqy’p
eu.bobppcgqcnbe,cfo.cpqcrnbocnbcafybcnbecfchbfgsoackqecsg,cpnbcgqqwcgq
nbechb.cjqebckeqjcgnbcnuegcgqcnbeckbbvsoapcgnfockeqjcgnbchvqrptcPnbcrfp
fcrs.qrcrnbocScjfeesb.cnbe,crsgncgnebbc nsv.ebo,cqobcpjfvvbecgnfocgnb
qgnbetcPnbcjfeesb.cnbecksepgcnuphfo.,cfocsokfogexcqkks be,ckqecvqyb,cfo.
efocfrfxcrsgncnsjckeqjcnbeckfgnbe’pcnqupbtcPnbcrfpcbd bb.soavxckqo.cqk
nbecnuphfo.;chugcnbcafybcrfxcgqc fe.p,caqgcsogqcgequhvbcfo.crsgncgnfgcnb
.sb.tcNbcupb.cgqchbfgcnbecfgcgnbcbo.:cfo.cfvgnquancpnbcifs.cnsjchf w,cqk
rns ncScnfybcfugnbogs c.q ujbogfexcbys.bo b,cgqcgnspc.fxcpnbcpibfwpcqk
nsjcrsgncgbfepcfo.cpnbcgneqrpcnsjcuicgqcjb;cfo.cScfjcavf.,cScfjcavf.
gnfg,cgnquancqovxcsocsjfasofgsqo,cpnbcpnquv.cgnsowcqkcnbepbvkcfpcnfysoa
qo bchbbocnfiixttttcFo.cpnbcrfpcvbkgcfgcnspc.bfgncrsgncgnebbc nsv.ebocso
fcrsv.cfo.cebjqgbc.spges gcrnbebcScnfiibob.cgqchbcfgcgnbcgsjb;cfo.cpnb
rfpcvbkgcsocpu ncnqibvbppciqybegxcgnfg,cfvgnquancScnfybcpbbocjfoxcuip
fo.c.qropcqkcfvvcpqeg,cSc.qo’gckbbvcblufvcgqc.bp eshsoacsgcbybotcNbe
ebvfgsqopcnf.cfvvcgneqrocnbecqkktcFo.cpnbcrfpciequ.,cgqq,cbd bppsybvx
iequ.ttttcFo.cgnbo,cnqoqueb.cpse,cfo.cgnbo,cS,chbsoacfgcgnbcgsjbcf
rs.qrbe,crsgncfc.fuangbecqkckquegbbocvbkgcjbchxcjxcksepgcrskb,cqkkbeb.
nbecjxcnfo.,ckqecSc quv.coqgchbfecgnbcpsangcqkcpu ncpukkbesoatcXquc fo
mu.abcgnbcbdgebjsgxcqkcnbec fvfjsgsbp,cgnfgcpnb,cfcrqjfocqkcb.u fgsqo
fo.c uvguebcfo.c.spgsoauspnb.ckfjsvx,cpnquv.cnfybc qopbogb.cgqchbcjx
rskbtcHugcpnbc.s.!cRbbisoacfo.cpqhhsoacfo.cresoasoacnbecnfo.p,cpnb
jfeesb.cjb!cKqecpnbcnf.coqrnbebcgqcgueo!c.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.,cpse,c.qcxqu
uo.bepgfo.crnfgcsgcjbfopcrnbocxqucnfybcfhpqvugbvxcoqrnbebcgqcgueo?cOq,
gnfgcxquc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.cxbgttttcFo.ckqecfcrnqvbcxbfe,cScibekqejb.
jxc.ugsbpc qop sbogsqupvxcfo.ckfsgnkuvvx,cfo.c.s.coqgcgqu ncgnsp”c(nb
gfiib.cgnbcmuacrsgncnspcksoabe),c“kqecScnfybckbbvsoaptcHugcbybocpq,cS
 quv.coqgcivbfpbcnbe;cfo.cgnbocScvqpgcjxcivf bcgqq,cfo.cgnfgcgnequancoq
kfuvgcqkcjsobchugcgnequanc nfoabpcsocgnbcqkks b;cfo.cgnbocSc.s.cgqu n
sg!tttcSgcrsvvchbcfcxbfecfo.cfcnfvkcfaqcpqqocpso bcrbckquo.cquepbvybpcfg
vfpgcfkgbecjfoxcrfo.besoapcfo.coujbequpc fvfjsgsbpcsocgnspcjfaosks bog
 fisgfv,cf.qeob.crsgncsooujbefhvbcjqoujbogptcNbebcScqhgfsob.cf
psgufgsqottttcScqhgfsob.csgcfo.cScvqpgcsgcfafsotc.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.?cGnsp
gsjbcsgcrfpcgnequancjxcqrockfuvgcScvqpgcsg:ckqecjxcrbfwobppcnf.c qjb
qugttttcRbcnfybcoqrcifegcqkcfceqqjcfgcFjfvsfcKxq.qeqyofcVsiibyb npbv’p;
fo.crnfgcrbcvsybcuiqocfo.crnfgcrbcifxcquecebogcrsgn,cSc quv.coqgcpfxt
Gnbebcfebcfcvqgcqkcibqivbcvsysoacgnbebchbps.bpcquepbvybptc.segcfo.
.spqe.be,cfcibekb gcHb.vfjtttcnjtttcxbptttcFo.cjbfornsvbcjxc.fuangbechx
jxcksepgcrskbcnfpcaeqrocui;cfo.crnfgcjxc.fuangbecnfpcnf.cgqciugcuicrsgn
keqjcnbecpgbi-jqgnbecrnsvpgcpnbcrfpcaeqrsoacui,cScrqo’gcpibfwcqktcKqe,
gnquancWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcspckuvvcqkcabobequpckbbvsoap,cpnbcspcfcpisesgb.
vf.x,cseesgfhvbcfo.cpnqeg-gbjibeb.ttttcXbptcHugcsg’pcoqcupbcaqsoacqybe
gnfg!cPqosf,cfpcxqucjfxcrbvvckfo x,cnfpcnf.coqcb.u fgsqotcSc.s.cjfwbcfo
bkkqegckquecxbfepcfaqcgqcasybcnbecfc quepbcqkcabqaefinxcfo.cuosybepfv
nspgqex,chugcfpcScrfpcoqgcybexcrbvvcuicsocgnqpbcpuhmb gpcjxpbvkcfo.crb
nf.coqcpusgfhvbchqqwp,cfo.crnfgchqqwpcrbcnf.tttcnj,cfoxrfxcrbcnfybcoqg
bybocgnqpbcoqr,cpqcfvvcquecsopgeu gsqoc fjbcgqcfocbo.tcRbcpgqiib.cfg
 xeupcqkcIbepsftcPso bcpnbcnfpcfggfsob.cxbfepcqkcjfguesgx,cpnbcnfpcebf.
qgnbechqqwpcqkceqjfogs cgbo.bo xcfo.cqkcvfgbcpnbcnf.cebf.crsgncaebfg
sogbebpgcfchqqwcpnbcaqgcgnequancJetcVbhbzsfgoswqy,cVbrbp’cInxpsqvqax--.q
xqucwoqrcsg?--fo.cbyboceb quogb.cbdgef gpckeqjcsgcgqcup:cfo.cgnfg’pcgnb
rnqvbcqkcnbecb.u fgsqotcFo.coqrcjfxcScyboguebcgqcf..ebppcxqu,cnqoqueb.
pse,cqocjxcqrocf  quogcrsgncfciesyfgbclubpgsqotc.qcxqucpuiiqpbcgnfg
fcebpib gfhvbciqqecasevc focbfeocju nchxcnqobpgcrqew?cOqgckskgbbo
kfegnsoapcfc.fxc focpnbcbfeo,cskcpnbcspcebpib gfhvbcfo.cnfpcoqcpib sfv
gfvbogcfo.cgnfgcrsgnqugciuggsoacnbecrqewc.qrockqecfocsopgfog!cFo.crnfg’p
jqeb,cSyfocSyfosg ncWvqipgq wcgnbc sysvc quopbvvqe--nfybcxqucnbfe.cqk
nsj?--nfpcoqgcgqcgnspc.fxcifs.cnbeckqecgnbcnfvk-.qzbocvsobocpnsegpcpnb
jf.bcnsjcfo.c.eqybcnbecequanvxcfrfx,cpgfjisoacfo.cebysvsoacnbe,cqocgnb
iebgbdgcgnfgcgnbcpnsegc qvvfepcrbebcoqgcjf.bcvswbcgnbcifggbeocfo.crbeb
iugcsocfpwbrtcFo.cgnbebcfebcgnbcvsggvbcqobpcnuoaexttttcFo.cWfgbesof
Syfoqyofcrfvwsoacuicfo.c.qrocfo.cresoasoacnbecnfo.p,cnbec nbbwpckvupnb.
eb.,cfpcgnbxcfvrfxpcfebcsocgnfgc.spbfpb:c‘Nbebcxqucvsybcrsgncup,’cpfxp
pnb,c‘xqucbfgcfo.c.esowcfo.cfebcwbigcrfejcfo.cxquc.qcoqgnsoacgqcnbvit’
Fo.cju ncpnbcabgpcgqcbfgcfo.c.esowcrnbocgnbebcspcoqgcfc eupgckqecgnb
vsggvbcqobpckqecgnebbc.fxp!cScrfpcvxsoacfgcgnbcgsjbtttcrbvv,crnfgcqk
sg!cScrfpcvxsoac.euowcfo.cScnbfe.cjxcPqosfcpibfwsoac(pnbcspcfcabogvb
 ebfguebcrsgncfcpqkgcvsggvbcyqs btttckfsecnfsecfo.cpu ncfcifvb,cgnso
vsggvbckf b)tcPnbcpfs.:c‘WfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cfjcScebfvvxcgqc.qcfcgnsoa
vswbcgnfg?’cFo.c.fexfcKefogpqyof,cfcrqjfocqkcbysvc nfef gbecfo.cybex
rbvvcwoqrocgqcgnbciqvs b,cnf.cgrqcqecgnebbcgsjbpcgesb.cgqcabgcfgcnbe
gnequancgnbcvfo.vf.xtc‘Fo.crnxcoqg?’cpfs.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrsgncfcmbbe,
‘xqucfebcpqjbgnsoacjsangxcieb squpcgqchbcpqc febkuvcqk!’cHugc.qo’gchvfjb
nbe,c.qo’gchvfjbcnbe,cnqoqueb.cpse,c.qo’gchvfjbcnbe!cPnbcrfpcoqgcnbepbvk
rnbocpnbcpiqwb,chugc.esybocgqc.spgef gsqochxcnbecsvvobppcfo.cgnbc exsoa
qkcgnbcnuoaexc nsv.ebo;cfo.csgcrfpcpfs.cjqebcgqcrquo.cnbecgnfocfoxgnsoa
bvpbttttcKqecgnfg’pcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pc nfef gbe,cfo.crnboc nsv.ebo
 ex,cbybockeqjcnuoabe,cpnbckfvvpcgqchbfgsoacgnbjcfgcqo btcFgcpsdcq’ vq w
ScpfrcPqosfcabgcui,ciugcqocnbecwbe nsbkcfo.cnbec fib,cfo.caqcqugcqkcgnb
eqqjcfo.cfhqugcosobcq’ vq wcpnbc fjbchf wtcPnbcrfvwb.cpgefsangcuicgq
WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfo.cpnbcvfs.cgnsegxcequhvbpcqocgnbcgfhvbchbkqebcnbe
socpsvbo btcPnbc.s.coqgcuggbecfcrqe.,cpnbc.s.coqgcbybocvqqwcfgcnbe,cpnb
psjivxcis wb.cuicquechsacaebboc_.efic.bc.fjbp_cpnfrvc(rbcnfybcfcpnfrv,
jf.bcqkc_.efic.bc.fjbp_),ciugcsgcqybecnbecnbf.cfo.ckf bcfo.cvfxc.qro
qocgnbchb.crsgncnbeckf bcgqcgnbcrfvv;cqovxcnbecvsggvbcpnquv.bepcfo.cnbe
hq.xcwbigcpnu..besoattttcFo.cScrbogcqocvxsoacgnbeb,cmupgcfpchbkqebtttt
Fo.cgnbocScpfr,cxquoacjfo,cScpfrcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,csocgnbcpfjbcpsvbo b
aqcuicgqcPqosf’pcvsggvbchb.;cpnbcrfpcqocnbecwobbpcfvvcgnbcbybosoa
wsppsoacPqosf’pckbbg,cfo.crquv.coqgcabgcui,cfo.cgnbocgnbxchqgnckbvv
fpvbbicsocbf ncqgnbe’pcfejptttcgqabgnbe,cgqabgnbetttcxbptttcfo.cStttcvfx
.euowt”

Jfejbvf.qycpgqiib.cpnqeg,cfpcgnquancnspcyqs bcnf.ckfsvb.cnsjtcGnbocnb
nueesb.vxcksvvb.cnspcavfpp,c.efow,cfo.c vbfeb.cnspcgneqfgt

“Pso bcgnbo,cpse,”cnbcrbogcqocfkgbecfchesbkcifupb--“Pso bcgnbo,cqrsoa
gqcfocuokqeguofgbcq  ueebo bcfo.cgnequancsokqejfgsqocasybochx
bysv-sogbogsqob.cibepqop--socfvvcrns nc.fexfcKefogpqyofcgqqwcf
vbf.soacifegcqocgnbciebgbdgcgnfgcpnbcnf.chbbocgebfgb.crsgncrfogcqk
ebpib g--pso bcgnbocjxc.fuangbecPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcnfpchbbockqe b.cgqcgfwb
fcxbvvqrcgs wbg,cfo.cqrsoacgqcgnfgcpnbcspcuofhvbcgqcaqcqocvsysoacrsgn
uptcKqecquecvfo.vf.x,cFjfvsfcKxq.qeqyofcrquv.coqgcnbfecqkcsgc(gnquan
pnbcnf.chf wb.cuic.fexfcKefogpqyofchbkqeb)cfo.cJetcVbhbzsfgoswqycgqqttt
njttttcFvvcgnbcgequhvbchbgrbbocnsjcfo.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrfpcqocPqosf’p
f  quogtcFgcksepgcnbcrfpckqecjfwsoacuicgqcPqosfcnsjpbvkcfo.cgnbocfvvcqk
fcpu..bocnbcpgqq.cqocnspc.saosgx:c‘nqr,’cpfs.cnb,c‘ focfcnsanvxcb.u fgb.
jfocvswbcjbcvsybcsocgnbcpfjbceqqjpcrsgncfcasevcvswbcgnfg?’cFo.cWfgbesof
Syfoqyofcrquv.coqgcvbgcsgcifpp,cpnbcpgqq.cuickqecnbetttcfo.cpqcgnfg’p
nqrcsgcnfiibob.tcFo.cPqosfc qjbpcgqcupcoqr,cjqpgvxcfkgbec.few;cpnb
 qjkqegpcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfo.casybpcnbecfvvcpnbc fottttcPnbcnfpcfceqqj
fgcgnbcWfibeofujqyp’cgnbcgfsvqep,cpnbcvq.abpcrsgncgnbj;cWfibeofujqycsp
fcvfjbcjfocrsgncfc vbkgcifvfgbcfo.cfvvcqkcnspcoujbequpckfjsvxcnfybc vbkg
ifvfgbpcgqqtcFo.cnspcrskb,cgqq,cnfpcfc vbkgcifvfgbtcGnbxcfvvcvsybcsocqob
eqqj,chugcPqosfcnfpcnbecqro,cifegsgsqob.cqkkttttcNjtttcxbptttcybexciqqe
ibqivbcfo.cfvvcrsgnc vbkgcifvfgbptttcxbptcGnbocScaqgcuicsocgnbcjqeosoa,
fo.ciugcqocjxcefap,cvskgb.cuicjxcnfo.pcgqcnbfybocfo.cpbgcqkkcgqcnsp
bd bvvbo xcSyfocFkfofpxysg ntcNspcbd bvvbo xcSyfocFkfofpxysg n,c.qcxqu
woqrcnsj?cOq?cRbvv,cgnbo,csg’pcfcjfocqkcAq.cxquc.qo’gcwoqrtcNbcspcrfdttt
rfdchbkqebcgnbckf bcqkcgnbcVqe.;cbybocfpcrfdcjbvgbgn!tttcNspcbxbpcrbeb
.sjcrnbocnbcnbfe.cjxcpgqextc‘Jfejbvf.qy,cqo bcfvebf.xcxqucnfyb
.b bsyb.cjxcbdib gfgsqoptttcS’vvcgfwbcxqucqo bcjqebcqocjxcqro
ebpiqopshsvsgx’--gnfg’pcrnfgcnbcpfs.,c‘ebjbjhbe,’cnbcpfs.,c‘fo.coqrcxqu
 focaqt’cScwsppb.cgnbc.upgcfgcnspckbbg--socgnquangcqovx,ckqecsocebfvsgx
nbcrquv.coqgcnfybcfvvqrb.cjbcgqc.qcsg,chbsoacfcpgfgbpjfocfo.cfcjfocqk
jq.beociqvsgs fvcfo.cbovsangbob.cs.bfptcScebgueob.cnqjb,cfo.crnbocS
fooquo b.cgnfgcS’.chbbocgfwbochf wcsogqcgnbcpbeys bcfo.cpnquv.ceb bsybcf
pfvfex,cnbfybop,crnfgcfcgq-.qcgnbebcrfp!ttt”

Jfejbvf.qycpgqiib.cfafsocsocysqvbogcbd sgbjbogtcFgcgnfgcjqjbogcfcrnqvb
ifegxcqkcebybvvbepcfvebf.xc.euowc fjbcsockeqjcgnbcpgebbg,cfo.cgnbcpquo.p
qkcfcnseb.c qo begsofcfo.cgnbc ef wb.cisisoacyqs bcqkcfc nsv.cqkcpbybo
psoasoac“GnbcNfjvbg”crbebcnbfe.csocgnbcbogextcGnbceqqjcrfpcksvvb.crsgn
oqspbtcGnbcgfybeo-wbbibecfo.cgnbchqxpcrbebchupxcrsgncgnbcobr- qjbept
Jfejbvf.qycifxsoacoqcfggbogsqocgqcgnbcobrcfeesyfvpc qogsoub.cnspcpgqext
Nbcfiibfeb.chxcoqrcgqchbcbdgebjbvxcrbfw,chugcfpcnbchb fjbcjqebcfo.cjqeb
.euow,cnbchb fjbcjqebcfo.cjqebcgfvwfgsybtcGnbceb qvvb gsqocqkcnsp
eb bogcpu  bppcsocabggsoacgnbcpsgufgsqocpbbjb.cgqcebysybcnsj,cfo.crfp
iqpsgsybvxcebkvb gb.csocfcpqegcqkcef.sfo bcqocnspckf btcEfpwqvoswqy
vspgbob.cfggbogsybvxt

“Gnfgcrfpcksybcrbbwpcfaq,cpsetcXbpttttcFpcpqqocfpcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof
fo.cPqosfcnbfe.cqkcsg,cjbe xcqocup,csgcrfpcfpcgnquancScpgbiib.csogqcgnb
wsoa.qjcqkcNbfybotcSgcupb.cgqchb:cxquc focvsbcvswbcfchbfpg,coqgnsoachug
fhupbtcOqrcgnbxcrbebcrfvwsoacqocgsigqb,cnupnsoacgnbc nsv.ebotc‘Pbjxqo
Zfnfeqysg ncspcgseb.crsgncnspcrqewcfgcgnbcqkks b,cnbcspcebpgsoa,cpnn!’
Gnbxcjf.bcjbc qkkbbchbkqebcScrbogcgqcrqewcfo.chqsvb.c ebfjckqecjb!cGnbx
hbafocgqcabgcebfvc ebfjckqecjb,c.qcxqucnbfecgnfg?cFo.cnqrcgnbxcjfofab.
gqcabgcgqabgnbecgnbcjqobxckqecfc.b bogcqugksg--bvbybocequhvbp,ckskgx
 qib wp,cSc fo’gcaubpptcHqqgp,c qggqocpnseg-keqogp--jqpgcjfaosks bog,
fcuoskqej,cgnbxcaqgcuicfvvcsocpivbo.s.cpgxvb,ckqecbvbybocequhvbpcfo.
fcnfvktcGnbcksepgcjqeosoacSc fjbchf wckeqjcgnbcqkks bcSckquo.cWfgbesof
Syfoqyofcnf.c qqwb.cgrqc quepbpckqec.soobe--pquicfo.cpfvgcjbfgcrsgn
nqepbcef.spn--rns ncrbcnf.cobybec.ebfjb.cqkcgsvvcgnbotcPnbcnf.coqgcfox
.ebppbptttcoqobcfgcfvv,chugcpnbcaqgcnbepbvkcuicfpcgnquancpnbcrbebcaqsoa
qocfcyspsg;cfo.coqgcgnfgcpnb’.cfoxgnsoacgqc.qcsgcrsgn,cpnbcpjfegbob.
nbepbvkcuicrsgncoqgnsoacfgcfvv,cpnb’.c.qobcnbecnfsecos bvx,ciugcqocf
 vbfoc qvvfecqkcpqjbcpqeg,c ukkp,cfo.cgnbebcpnbcrfp,clusgbcfc.skkbebog
ibepqo,cpnbcrfpcxquoabecfo.chbggbecvqqwsoatcPqosf,cjxcvsggvbc.fevsoa,
nf.cqovxcnbvib.crsgncjqobxc‘kqecgnbcgsjb,’cpnbcpfs.,c‘sgcrqo’gc.qckqecjb
gqc qjbcfo.cpbbcxqucgqqcqkgbotcFkgbec.fewcjfxhbcrnbocoqcqobc focpbbt’c.q
xqucnbfe,c.qcxqucnbfe?cScvfxc.qrockqecfcoficfkgbec.soobecfo.crnfgc.qcxqu
gnsow:cgnquancWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcnf.clufeebvvb.cgqcgnbcvfpgc.baebbcrsgn
quecvfo.vf.xcFjfvsfcKxq.qeqyofcqovxcfcrbbwchbkqeb,cpnbc quv.coqg
ebpspgcgnbocfpwsoacnbecsocgqc qkkbbtcKqecgrqcnquepcgnbxcrbebcpsggsoa,
rnspibesoacgqabgnbetc‘PbjxqocZfnfeqysg ncspcsocgnbcpbeys bcfafso,
oqr,cfo.ceb bsysoacfcpfvfex,’cpfxpcpnb,c‘fo.cnbcrbogcnsjpbvkcgqcnsp
bd bvvbo xcfo.cnspcbd bvvbo xcnsjpbvkc fjbcqugcgqcnsj,cjf.bcfvvcgnb
qgnbepcrfsgcfo.cvb.cPbjxqocZfnfeqysg nchxcgnbcnfo.chbkqebcbybexhq.xcsogq
nspcpgu.xt’c.qcxqucnbfe,c.qcxqucnbfe?c‘Gqchbcpueb,’cpfxpcnb,c‘Pbjxqo
Zfnfeqysg n,cebjbjhbesoacxquecifpgcpbeys bp,’cpfxpcnb,c‘fo.csocpisgb
qkcxquecieqibopsgxcgqcgnfgckqqvspncrbfwobpp,cpso bcxqucieqjspbcoqrcfo.
pso bcjqebqybecrb’ybcaqgcqochf.vxcrsgnqugcxqu,’c(.qcxqucnbfe,c.qcxqu
nbfe;)c‘fo.cpq,’cpfxpcnb,c‘Scebvxcoqrcqocxquecrqe.cfpcfcabogvbjfot’cFo.
fvvcgnfg,cvbgcjbcgbvvcxqu,cpnbcnfpcpsjivxcjf.bcuickqecnbepbvk,cfo.coqg
psjivxcqugcqkcrfogqoobpp,ckqecgnbcpfwbcqkchefaasoa;coq,cpnbchbvsbybpcsg
fvvcnbepbvk,cpnbcfjupbpcnbepbvkcrsgncnbecqrockfo sbp,cuiqocjxcrqe.cpnb
.qbp!cFo.cSc.qo’gchvfjbcnbeckqecsg,coq,cSc.qo’gchvfjbcnbe!tttcPsdc.fxp
faqcrnbocSchequangcnbecjxcksepgcbfeosoapcsockuvv--grbogx-gnebbcequhvbp
kqegxc qib wpcfvgqabgnbe--pnbc fvvb.cjbcnbeciqiibg:c‘iqiibg,’cpfs.cpnb,
‘jxcvsggvbciqiibgt’cFo.crnbocrbcrbebchxcquepbvybp,cxqucuo.bepgfo.?
Xqucrquv.coqgcgnsowcjbcfchbfugx,cxqucrquv.coqgcgnsowcju ncqkcjbcfpcf
nuphfo.,crquv.cxqu?tttcRbvv,cpnbciso nb.cjxc nbbw,c‘jxcvsggvbciqiibg,’
pfs.cpnbt”

Jfejbvf.qycheqwbcqkk,cgesb.cgqcpjsvb,chugcpu..bovxcnspc nsochbafo
gqcgrsg ntcNbc qogeqvvb.cnsjpbvkcnqrbybetcGnbcgfybeo,cgnbc.baef.b.
fiibfefo bcqkcgnbcjfo,cgnbcksybcosangpcsocgnbcnfxchfeab,cfo.cgnbciqgcqk
pisesgp,cfo.cxbgcgnspciqsaofogcvqybckqecnspcrskbcfo.c nsv.ebochbrsv.beb.
nspcvspgbobetcEfpwqvoswqycvspgbob.csogbogvxchugcrsgncfcps wcpbopfgsqot
Nbckbvgcybdb.cgnfgcnbcnf.c qjbcnbebt

“Nqoqueb.cpse,cnqoqueb.cpse,”c esb.cJfejbvf.qyceb qybesoacnsjpbvk--“Qn,
pse,cibenfipcfvvcgnspcpbbjpcfcvfuansoacjfggbecgqcxqu,cfpcsgc.qbpcgq
qgnbep,cfo.cibenfipcScfjcqovxcrqeexsoacxqucrsgncgnbcpguis.sgxcqkcfvvcgnb
gesysfvc.bgfsvpcqkcjxcnqjbcvskb,chugcsgcspcoqgcfcvfuansoacjfggbecgqcjbt
KqecSc fockbbvcsgcfvvttttcFo.cgnbcrnqvbcqkcgnfgcnbfybovxc.fxcqkcjxcvskb
fo.cgnbcrnqvbcqkcgnfgcbybosoacScifppb.csockvbbgsoac.ebfjpcqkcnqrcScrquv.
feefoabcsgcfvv,cfo.cnqrcScrquv.c.ebppcfvvcgnbc nsv.ebo,cfo.cnqrcScpnquv.
asybcnbecebpg,cfo.cnqrcScpnquv.cebp ubcjxcqroc.fuangbeckeqjc.spnqoque
fo.cebpgqebcnbecgqcgnbchqpqjcqkcnbeckfjsvxttttcFo.cfcaebfgc.bfvcjqebtttt
Lusgbcbd upfhvb,cpsetcRbvv,cgnbo,cpse”c(Jfejbvf.qycpu..bovxcafybcfcpqeg
qkcpgfeg,cefspb.cnspcnbf.cfo.cafzb.csogbogvxcfgcnspcvspgbobe)c“rbvv,cqo
gnbcybexcobdgc.fxcfkgbecfvvcgnqpbc.ebfjp,cgnfgcspcgqcpfx,cbdf gvxcksyb
.fxpcfaq,csocgnbcbybosoa,chxcfc uoosoacges w,cvswbcfcgnsbkcsocgnbcosang,
ScpgqvbckeqjcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcgnbcwbxcqkcnbechqd,cgqqwcqugcrnfgcrfp
vbkgcqkcjxcbfeosoap,cnqrcju ncsgcrfpcScnfybckqeaqggbo,cfo.coqrcvqqw
fgcjb,cfvvcqkcxqu!cSg’pcgnbckskgnc.fxcpso bcScvbkgcnqjb,cfo.cgnbxcfeb
vqqwsoackqecjbcgnbebcfo.csg’pcgnbcbo.cqkcjxcbjivqxjbog,cfo.cjxcuoskqej
spcvxsoacsocfcgfybeocqocgnbcBaxigsfoches.abtcScbd nfoab.csgckqecgnb
afejbogpcScnfybcqotttcfo.csg’pcgnbcbo.cqkcbybexgnsoa!”

Jfejbvf.qycpgeu wcnspckqebnbf.crsgncnspckspg,c vbo nb.cnspcgbbgn,c vqpb.
nspcbxbpcfo.cvbfob.cnbfysvxcrsgncnspcbvhqrcqocgnbcgfhvbtcHugcfcjsougb
vfgbecnspckf bcpu..bovxc nfoab.cfo.crsgncfc begfsocfppujb.cpvxobppcfo.
fkkb gfgsqocqkchefyf.q,cnbcavfo b.cfgcEfpwqvoswqy,cvfuanb.cfo.cpfs.:

“GnspcjqeosoacScrbogcgqcpbbcPqosf,cScrbogcgqcfpwcnbeckqecfcis w-jb-ui!
Nb-nb-nb!”

“Xquc.qo’gcpfxcpnbcafybcsgcgqcxqu?”c esb.cqobcqkcgnbcobr- qjbep;cnb
pnqugb.cgnbcrqe.pcfo.crbogcqkkcsogqcfcaukkfrt

“Gnspcybexclufegcrfpchquangcrsgncnbecjqobx,”cJfejbvf.qyc.b vfeb.,
f..ebppsoacnsjpbvkcbd vupsybvxcgqcEfpwqvoswqytc“Gnsegxc qib wpcpnbcafyb
jbcrsgncnbecqrocnfo.p,cnbecvfpg,cfvvcpnbcnf.,cfpcScpfrttttcPnbcpfs.
oqgnsoa,cpnbcqovxcvqqwb.cfgcjbcrsgnqugcfcrqe.ttttcOqgcqocbfegn,chugcui
xqo.betttcgnbxcaesbybcqybecjbo,cgnbxcrbbi,chugcgnbxc.qo’gchvfjbcgnbj,
gnbxc.qo’gchvfjbcgnbj!cHugcsgcnuegpcjqeb,csgcnuegpcjqebcrnbocgnbxc.qo’g
hvfjb!cGnsegxc qib wpcxbp!cFo.cjfxhbcpnbcobb.pcgnbjcoqr,cbn?cRnfgc.q
xqucgnsow,cjxc.bfecpse?cKqecoqrcpnb’pcaqgcgqcwbbicuicnbecfiibfefo btcSg
 qpgpcjqobx,cgnfgcpjfegobpp,cgnfgcpib sfvcpjfegobpp,cxqucwoqr?c.qcxqu
uo.bepgfo.?cFo.cgnbeb’pciqjfguj,cgqq,cxqucpbb,cpnbcjupgcnfybcgnsoap;
ibggs qfgp,cpgfe nb.cqobp,cpnqbp,cgqq,cebfvcmfuogxcqobpcgqcpnqrcqkkcnbe
kqqgcrnbocpnbcnfpcgqcpgbicqybecfciu..vbtc.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.,cpse,c.qcxqu
uo.bepgfo.crnfgcfvvcgnfgcpjfegobppcjbfop?cFo.cnbebcS,cnbecqrockfgnbe,
nbebcScgqqwcgnsegxc qib wpcqkcgnfgcjqobxckqecfc.esow!cFo.cScfjc.esowsoa
sg!cFo.cScnfybcfvebf.xc.euowcsg!c qjb,crnqcrsvvcnfybcisgxcqocfcjfocvswb
jb,cbn?cFebcxqucpqeexckqecjb,cpse,cqecoqg?cGbvvcjb,cpse,cfebcxqucpqeex
qecoqg?cNb-nb-nb!”

Nbcrquv.cnfybcksvvb.cnspcavfpp,chugcgnbebcrfpcoqc.esowcvbkgtcGnbciqgcrfp
bjigxt

“Rnfgcfebcxqucgqchbcisgsb.ckqe?”cpnqugb.cgnbcgfybeo-wbbibecrnqcrfpcfafso
obfecgnbjt

Pnqugpcqkcvfuangbecfo.cbybocqfgnpckqvvqrb.tcGnbcvfuangbecfo.cgnbcqfgnp
 fjbckeqjcgnqpbcrnqcrbebcvspgbosoacfo.cfvpqckeqjcgnqpbcrnqcnf.cnbfe.
oqgnsoachugcrbebcpsjivxcvqqwsoacfgcgnbcksauebcqkcgnbc.sp nfeab.
aqybeojbogc vbewt

“Gqchbcisgsb.!cRnxcfjcScgqchbcisgsb.?”cJfejbvf.qycpu..bovxc.b vfsjb.,
pgfo.soacuicrsgncnspcfejcqugpgebg nb.,cfpcgnquancnbcnf.chbbocqovx
rfsgsoackqecgnfgclubpgsqot

“RnxcfjcScgqchbcisgsb.,cxqucpfx?cXbp!cgnbeb’pcoqgnsoacgqcisgxcjbckqe!cS
quangcgqchbc eu sksb.,c eu sksb.cqocfc eqpp,coqgcisgsb.!c eu skxcjb,
qncmu.ab,c eu skxcjbchugcisgxcjb!cFo.cgnbocScrsvvcaqcqkcjxpbvkcgqchb
 eu sksb.,ckqecsg’pcoqgcjbeex-jfwsoacScpbbwchugcgbfepcfo.cgeshuvfgsqo!ttt
.qcxqucpuiiqpb,cxqucgnfgcpbvv,cgnfgcgnspcisogcqkcxquepcnfpchbbo
prbbgcgqcjb?cSgcrfpcgeshuvfgsqocScpquangcfgcgnbchqggqjcqkcsg,cgbfepcfo.
geshuvfgsqo,cfo.cnfybckquo.csg,cfo.cScnfybcgfpgb.csg;chugcNbcrsvvcisgx
upcRnqcnfpcnf.cisgxcqocfvvcjbo,cRnqcnfpcuo.bepgqq.cfvvcjbocfo.cfvv
gnsoap,cNbcspcgnbcQob,cNbcgqqcspcgnbcmu.abtcNbcrsvvc qjbcsocgnfgc.fx
fo.cNbcrsvvcfpw:c‘Rnbebcspcgnbc.fuangbecrnqcafybcnbepbvkckqecnbec eqpp,
 qopujigsybcpgbi-jqgnbecfo.ckqecgnbcvsggvbc nsv.ebocqkcfoqgnbe?cRnbebcsp
gnbc.fuangbecrnqcnf.cisgxcuiqocgnbcksvgnxc.euowfe.,cnbecbfegnvxckfgnbe,
uo.spjfxb.chxcnspchbfpgvsobpp?’cFo.cNbcrsvvcpfx,c‘ qjbcgqcjb!cScnfyb
fvebf.xckqeasybocgnbbcqo bttttcScnfybckqeasybocgnbbcqo bttttcGnxcpsop
rns ncfebcjfoxcfebckqeasybocgnbbckqecgnqucnfpgcvqyb.cju ntttt’cFo.cnb
rsvvckqeasybcjxcPqosf,cNbcrsvvckqeasyb,cScwoqrcsgtttcSckbvgcsgcsocjx
nbfegcrnbocScrfpcrsgncnbecmupgcoqr!cFo.cNbcrsvvcmu.abcfo.crsvvckqeasyb
fvv,cgnbcaqq.cfo.cgnbcbysv,cgnbcrspbcfo.cgnbcjbbwttttcFo.crnbocNbcnfp
.qobcrsgncfvvcqkcgnbj,cgnbocNbcrsvvcpujjqocuptc‘Xqucgqqc qjbckqegn,’
Nbcrsvvcpfx,c‘ qjbckqegncxbc.euowfe.p,c qjbckqegn,cxbcrbfwcqobp,c qjb
kqegn,cxbc nsv.ebocqkcpnfjb!’cFo.crbcpnfvvcfvvc qjbckqegn,crsgnqugcpnfjb
fo.cpnfvvcpgfo.chbkqebcnsjtcFo.cNbcrsvvcpfxcuogqcup,c‘Xbcfebcprsob,cjf.b
socgnbcSjfabcqkcgnbcHbfpgcfo.crsgncnspcjfew;chugc qjbcxbcfvpq!’cFo.cgnb
rspbcqobpcfo.cgnqpbcqkcuo.bepgfo.soacrsvvcpfx,c‘QncVqe.,crnxc.qpgcGnqu
eb bsybcgnbpbcjbo?’cFo.cNbcrsvvcpfx,c‘GnspcspcrnxcSceb bsybcgnbj,cqncxb
rspb,cgnspcspcrnxcSceb bsybcgnbj,cqncxbcqkcuo.bepgfo.soa,cgnfgcoqgcqob
qkcgnbjchbvsbyb.cnsjpbvkcgqchbcrqegnxcqkcgnspt’cFo.cNbcrsvvcnqv.cqugcNsp
nfo.pcgqcupcfo.crbcpnfvvckfvvc.qrochbkqebcnsjtttcfo.crbcpnfvvcrbbittt
fo.crbcpnfvvcuo.bepgfo.cfvvcgnsoap!cGnbocrbcpnfvvcuo.bepgfo.cfvv!tttcfo.
fvvcrsvvcuo.bepgfo.,cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcbybotttcpnbcrsvvcuo.bepgfo.tttt
Vqe.,cGnxcwsoa.qjc qjb!”cFo.cnbcpfowc.qrocqocgnbchbo ncbdnfupgb.,cfo.
nbvivbpp,cvqqwsoacfgcoqcqob,cfiifebogvxcqhvsysqupcqkcnspcpueequo.soap
fo.civuoab.csoc.bbicgnquangtcNspcrqe.pcnf.c ebfgb.cfc begfsocsjiebppsqo;
gnbebcrfpcfcjqjbogcqkcpsvbo b;chugcpqqocvfuangbecfo.cqfgnpcrbebcnbfe.
fafsot

“Gnfg’pcnspcoqgsqo!”

“Gfvwb.cnsjpbvkcpsvvx!”

“Fcksobc vbewcnbcsp!”

Fo.cpqcqo,cfo.cpqcqot

“Vbgcupcaq,cpse,”cpfs.cJfejbvf.qycfvvcfgcqo b,cefspsoacnspcnbf.cfo.
f..ebppsoacEfpwqvoswqy--“ qjbcfvqoacrsgncjbtttcWqzbv’pcnqupb,cvqqwsoa
sogqcgnbcxfe.tcS’jcaqsoacgqcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof--gsjbcSc.s.t”

Efpwqvoswqycnf.ckqecpqjbcgsjbchbbocrfogsoacgqcaqcfo.cnbcnf.cjbfogcgq
nbvicnsjtcJfejbvf.qycrfpcju ncuopgbf.sbecqocnspcvbapcgnfocsocnspcpibb n
fo.cvbfob.cnbfysvxcqocgnbcxquoacjfotcGnbxcnf.cgrqcqecgnebbcnuo.eb.
if bpcgqcaqtcGnbc.euowbocjfocrfpcjqebcfo.cjqebcqybe qjbchxc.spjfxcfo.
 qokupsqocfpcgnbxc.ebrcobfebecgnbcnqupbt

“Sg’pcoqgcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcScfjcfkefs.cqkcoqr,”cnbcjuggbeb.cso
fasgfgsqo--“fo.cgnfgcpnbcrsvvchbasociuvvsoacjxcnfsetcRnfgc.qbpcjxcnfse
jfggbe!cHqgnbecjxcnfse!cGnfg’pcrnfgcScpfx!cSo.bb.csgcrsvvchbchbggbecsk
pnbc.qbpchbasociuvvsoacsg,cgnfg’pcoqgcrnfgcScfjcfkefs.cqktttcsg’pcnbe
bxbpcScfjcfkefs.cqktttcxbp,cnbecbxbptttcgnbceb.cqocnbec nbbwp,cgqq,
kesangbopcjbtttcfo.cnbechebfgnsoacgqqttttcNfybcxqucoqgs b.cnqrcibqivb
socgnfgc.spbfpbchebfgnbtttcrnbocgnbxcfebcbd sgb.?cScfjckesangbob.cqk
gnbc nsv.ebo’pc exsoa,cgqqttttcKqecskcPqosfcnfpcoqgcgfwbocgnbjckqq.ttt
Sc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfg’pcnfiibob.!cSc.qo’gcwoqr!cHugchvqrpcScfjcoqgcfkefs.
qkttttcWoqr,cpse,cgnfgcpu nchvqrpcfebcoqgcfcifsocgqcjb,chugcbybocfo
bomqxjbogtcSockf gcSc fo’gcabgcqocrsgnqugcsgttttcSg’pchbggbecpqtcVbg
nbecpgeswbcjb,csgcebvsbybpcnbecnbfegtttcsg’pchbggbecpqtttcGnbebcspcgnb
nqupbtcGnbcnqupbcqkcWqzbv,cgnbc fhsobg-jfwbetttcfcAbejfo,crbvv-gq-.qt
Vbf.cgnbcrfx!”

Gnbxcrbogcsockeqjcgnbcxfe.cfo.cuicgqcgnbckquegncpgqebxtcGnbcpgfse fpb
aqgc.fewbecfo.c.fewbecfpcgnbxcrbogcuitcSgcrfpcobfevxcbvbybocq’ vq w
fo.cfvgnquancsocpujjbecsocIbgbephueacgnbebcspcoqcebfvcosang,cxbgcsgcrfp
lusgbc.fewcfgcgnbcgqicqkcgnbcpgfsept

Fcaesjxcvsggvbc.qqecfgcgnbcybexcgqicqkcgnbcpgfsepcpgqq.cfmfetcFcybex
iqqe-vqqwsoaceqqjcfhqugcgbocif bpcvqoacrfpcvsangb.cuichxcfc fo.vb-bo.;
gnbcrnqvbcqkcsgcrfpcyspshvbckeqjcgnbcbogefo btcSgcrfpcfvvcsoc.spqe.be,
vsggbeb.cuicrsgncefapcqkcfvvcpqegp,cbpib sfvvxc nsv.ebo’pcafejbogpt
F eqppcgnbckuegnbpgc qeobecrfpcpgebg nb.cfcefaab.cpnbbgtcHbnso.csg
ieqhfhvxcrfpcgnbchb.tcGnbebcrfpcoqgnsoacsocgnbceqqjcbd bigcgrqc nfsep
fo.cfcpqkfc qybeb.crsgncFjbes focvbfgnbe,ckuvvcqkcnqvbp,chbkqebcrns n
pgqq.cfocqv.c.bfvcwsg nbo-gfhvb,cuoifsogb.cfo.cuo qybeb.tcFgcgnbcb.ab
qkcgnbcgfhvbcpgqq.cfcpjqv.besoacgfvvqr- fo.vbcsocfocseqoc fo.vbpgs wtcSg
fiibfeb.cgnfgcgnbckfjsvxcnf.cfceqqjcgqcgnbjpbvybp,coqgcifegcqkcfceqqj,
hugcgnbseceqqjcrfpcief gs fvvxcfcifppfabtcGnbc.qqecvbf.soacgqcgnbcqgnbe
eqqjp,cqecefgnbec uihqfe.p,csogqcrns ncFjfvsfcVsiibyb npbv’pckvfgcrfp
.sys.b.cpgqq.cnfvkcqibo,cfo.cgnbebcrfpcpnqugsoa,cuieqfecfo.cvfuangbe
rsgnsotcIbqivbcpbbjb.cgqchbcivfxsoac fe.pcfo.c.esowsoacgbfcgnbebtcRqe.p
qkcgnbcjqpgcuo bebjqosqupcwso.ckvbrcqugckeqjcgsjbcgqcgsjbt

Efpwqvoswqyceb qaospb.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfgcqo btcPnbcrfpcfcefgnbecgfvv,
pvsjcfo.caef bkuvcrqjfo,cgbeeshvxcbjf sfgb.,crsgncjfaosks bogc.fewcheqro
nfsecfo.crsgncfcnb gs ckvupncsocnbec nbbwptcPnbcrfpcif soacuicfo.c.qro
socnbecvsggvbceqqj,ciebppsoacnbecnfo.pcfafsopgcnbec nbpg;cnbecvsip
rbebcife nb.cfo.cnbechebfgnsoac fjbcsocobeyqupcheqwbocafpiptcNbecbxbp
avsggbeb.cfpcsockbybecfo.cvqqwb.cfhqugcrsgncfcnfepncsjjqyfhvbcpgfebtcFo.
gnfgc qopujigsybcfo.cbd sgb.ckf bcrsgncgnbcvfpgckvs wbesoacvsangcqkcgnb
 fo.vb-bo.civfxsoacuiqocsgcjf.bcfcps wbosoacsjiebppsqotcPnbcpbbjb.cgq
Efpwqvoswqycfhqugcgnsegxcxbfepcqv.cfo.crfpc begfsovxcfcpgefoabcrskbckqe
Jfejbvf.qyttttcPnbcnf.coqgcnbfe.cgnbjcfo.c.s.coqgcoqgs bcgnbjc qjsoacsot
Pnbcpbbjb.cgqchbcvqpgcsocgnquang,cnbfesoacfo.cpbbsoacoqgnsoatcGnbceqqj
rfpc vqpb,chugcpnbcnf.coqgcqibob.cgnbcrso.qr;cfcpgbo nceqpbckeqjcgnb
pgfse fpb,chugcgnbc.qqecqocgqcgnbcpgfsepcrfpcoqgc vqpb.tcKeqjcgnbcsoobe
eqqjpc vqu.pcqkcgqhf  qcpjqwbckvqfgb.cso,cpnbcwbigc quansoa,chugc.s.coqg
 vqpbcgnbc.qqetcGnbcxquoabpgc nsv.,cfcasevcqkcpsd,crfpcfpvbbi,cpsggsoa
 uevb.cuicqocgnbckvqqecrsgncnbecnbf.cqocgnbcpqkftcFchqxcfcxbfecqv.be
pgqq.c exsoacfo.cpnfwsoacsocgnbc qeobe,cieqhfhvxcnbcnf.cmupgcnf.cf
hbfgsoatcHbps.bcnsjcpgqq.cfcasevcqkcosobcxbfepcqv.,cgfvvcfo.cgnso,
rbfesoacfcgnsocfo.cefaab.c nbjspbcrsgncfocfo sbogc fpnjbebcibvsppbckvuoa
qybecnbechfebcpnquv.bep,cvqoacqugaeqrocfo.chfebvxcebf nsoacnbecwobbpt
Nbecfej,cfpcgnsocfpcfcpgs w,crfpcequo.cnbecheqgnbe’pcob wtcPnbcrfp
gexsoacgqc qjkqegcnsj,crnspibesoacpqjbgnsoacgqcnsj,cfo.c.qsoacfvvcpnb
 quv.cgqcwbbicnsjckeqjcrnsjibesoacfafsotcFgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcnbecvfeab
.fewcbxbp,crns ncvqqwb.cvfeabecpgsvvckeqjcgnbcgnsoobppcqkcnbeckesangbob.
kf b,crbebcrfg nsoacnbecjqgnbecrsgncfvfejtcJfejbvf.qyc.s.coqgcbogbecgnb
.qqe,chugc.eqiib.cqocnspcwobbpcsocgnbcybexc.qqerfx,ciupnsoacEfpwqvoswqy
sockeqogcqkcnsjtcGnbcrqjfocpbbsoacfcpgefoabecpgqiib.cso.skkbebogvx
kf soacnsj,c qjsoacgqcnbepbvkckqecfcjqjbogcfo.cfiifebogvxcrqo.besoacrnfg
nbcnf.c qjbckqetcHugcbys.bogvxcpnbc.b s.b.cgnfgcnbcrfpcaqsoacsogq
gnbcobdgceqqj,cfpcnbcnf.cgqcifppcgnequancnbepcgqcabgcgnbebtcGfwsoacoq
kuegnbecoqgs bcqkcnsj,cpnbcrfvwb.cgqrfe.pcgnbcqugbec.qqecgqc vqpbcsg
fo.cuggbeb.cfcpu..bocp ebfjcqocpbbsoacnbecnuphfo.cqocnspcwobbpcsocgnb
.qqerfxt

“Fn!”cpnbc esb.cqugcsocfckebozx,c“nbcnfpc qjbchf w!cGnbc esjsofv!cgnb
jqopgbe!tttcFo.crnbebcspcgnbcjqobx?cRnfg’pcsocxqueciq wbg,cpnqrcjb!cFo.
xquec vqgnbpcfebcfvvc.skkbebog!cRnbebcfebcxquec vqgnbp?cRnbebcspcgnb
jqobx!cPibfw!”

Fo.cpnbckbvvcgqcpbfe nsoacnsjtcJfejbvf.qycpuhjsppsybvxcfo.cqhb.sbogvx
nbv.cuichqgncfejpcgqckf svsgfgbcgnbcpbfe ntcOqgcfckfegnsoacrfpcgnbebt

“Rnbebcspcgnbcjqobx?”cpnbc esb.--“Jbe xcqocup,c focnbcnfybc.euowcsgcfvv?
Gnbebcrbebcgrbvybcpsvybecequhvbpcvbkgcsocgnbc nbpg!”cfo.csocfckuex
pnbcpbszb.cnsjchxcgnbcnfsecfo.c.efaab.cnsjcsogqcgnbceqqjtcJfejbvf.qy
pb qo.b.cnbecbkkqegpchxcjbbwvxc efrvsoacfvqoacqocnspcwobbpt

“Fo.cgnspcspcfc qopqvfgsqocgqcjb!cGnspc.qbpcoqgcnuegcjb,chugcspcf
iqpsgsybc qo-pq-vf-gsqo,cnq-oqu-eb.cpse,”cnbc fvvb.cqug,cpnfwbocgqcfo.
keqchxcnspcnfsecfo.cbybocqo bcpgeswsoacgnbcaequo.crsgncnspckqebnbf.t
Gnbc nsv.cfpvbbicqocgnbckvqqecrqwbcui,cfo.chbafocgqc extcGnbchqxcsocgnb
 qeobecvqpsoacfvvc qogeqvchbafocgebjhvsoacfo.cp ebfjsoacfo.ceupnb.
gqcnspcpspgbecsocysqvbogcgbeeqe,cfvjqpgcsocfcksgtcGnbcbv.bpgcasevcrfp
pnfwsoacvswbcfcvbfkt

“Nb’pc.euowcsg!cnb’pc.euowcsgcfvv,”cgnbciqqecrqjfocp ebfjb.cso
.bpifse--“fo.cnspc vqgnbpcfebcaqob!cFo.cgnbxcfebcnuoaex,cnuoaex!”--fo.
resoasoacnbecnfo.pcpnbciqsogb.cgqcgnbc nsv.ebotc“Qn,cf  uepb.cvskb!
Fo.cxqu,cfebcxqucoqgcfpnfjb.?”--pnbciquo b.cfvvcfgcqo bcuiqo
Efpwqvoswqy--“keqjcgnbcgfybeo!cNfybcxquchbboc.esowsoacrsgncnsj?cXqucnfyb
hbboc.esowsoacrsgncnsj,cgqq!cAqcfrfx!”

Gnbcxquoacjfocrfpcnfpgbosoacfrfxcrsgnqugcuggbesoacfcrqe.tcGnbcsoobec.qqe
rfpcgneqrocrs.bcqibocfo.csoluspsgsybckf bpcrbebcibbesoacsocfgcsgtc qfepb
vfuansoackf bpcrsgncisibpcfo.c safebggbpcfo.cnbf.pcrbfesoac fipcgneupg
gnbjpbvybpcsocfgcgnbc.qqerfxtcKuegnbecsoc quv.chbcpbbocksauebpcso
.ebppsoacaqropckvuoacqibo,csoc qpgujbpcqkcuopbbjvxcp fogsobpp,cpqjbcqk
gnbjcrsgnc fe.pcsocgnbsecnfo.ptcGnbxcrbebcifegs uvfevxc.sybegb.,crnbo
Jfejbvf.qy,c.efaab.cfhqugchxcnspcnfse,cpnqugb.cgnfgcsgcrfpcfc qopqvfgsqo
gqcnsjtcGnbxcbybochbafocgqc qjbcsogqcgnbceqqj;cfgcvfpgcfcpsospgbecpnesvv
qug excrfpcnbfe.:cgnspc fjbckeqjcFjfvsfcVsiibyb npbvcnbepbvkciupnsoacnbe
rfxcfjqoapgcgnbjcfo.cgexsoacgqcebpgqebcqe.becfkgbecnbecqrockfpnsqocfo.
kqecgnbcnuo.eb.gncgsjbcgqckesangbocgnbciqqecrqjfochxcqe.besoacnbe
rsgnc qfepbcfhupbcgqc vbfecqugcqkcgnbceqqjcobdgc.fxtcFpcnbcrbogcqug,
Efpwqvoswqycnf.cgsjbcgqciugcnspcnfo.csogqcnspciq wbg,cgqcpofg ncuicgnb
 qiibepcnbcnf.ceb bsyb.csocbd nfoabckqecnspcequhvbcsocgnbcgfybeocfo.cgq
vfxcgnbjcuooqgs b.cqocgnbcrso.qrtcFkgberfe.pcqocgnbcpgfsep,cnbc nfoab.
nspcjso.cfo.crquv.cnfybcaqobchf wt

“Rnfgcfcpguis.cgnsoacS’ybc.qob,”cnbcgnquangcgqcnsjpbvk,c“gnbxcnfybcPqosf
fo.cScrfogcsgcjxpbvkt”cHugcebkvb gsoacgnfgcsgcrquv.chbcsjiqppshvbcgq
gfwbcsgchf wcoqrcfo.cgnfgcsocfoxc fpbcnbcrquv.coqgcnfybcgfwbocsg,cnb
.spjsppb.csgcrsgncfcrfybcqkcnspcnfo.cfo.crbogchf wcgqcnspcvq.asoat
“Pqosfcrfogpciqjfgujcgqq,”cnbcpfs.cfpcnbcrfvwb.cfvqoacgnbcpgebbg,cfo.cnb
vfuanb.cjfvsaofogvx--“pu ncpjfegobppc qpgpcjqobxttttcNj!cFo.cjfxhbcPqosf
nbepbvkcrsvvchbchfoweuigcgq-.fx,ckqecgnbebcspcfvrfxpcfcespw,cnuogsoa
hsacafjbtttc.saasoackqecaqv.tttcgnbocgnbxcrquv.cfvvchbcrsgnqugcfc eupg
gq-jqeeqrcbd bigckqecjxcjqobxtcNueefnckqecPqosf!cRnfgcfcjsobcgnbx’ybc.ua
gnbeb!cFo.cgnbx’ebcjfwsoacgnbcjqpgcqkcsg!cXbp,cgnbxcfebcjfwsoacgnbcjqpg
qkcsg!cGnbx’ybcrbigcqybecsgcfo.caeqrocupb.cgqcsgtcJfocaeqrpcupb.cgq
bybexgnsoa,cgnbcp quo.ebv!”

Nbcpfowcsogqcgnquangt

“Fo.crnfgcskcScfjcreqoa,”cnbc esb.cpu..bovxcfkgbecfcjqjbog’pcgnquangt
“Rnfgcskcjfocspcoqgcebfvvxcfcp quo.ebv,cjfocsocabobefv,cScjbfo,cgnb
rnqvbcef bcqkcjfowso.--gnbocfvvcgnbcebpgcspciebmu.s b,cpsjivxcfegsks sfv
gbeeqepcfo.cgnbebcfebcoqchfeesbepcfo.csg’pcfvvcfpcsgcpnquv.chbt”



 NFIGBEcSSS

Nbcrfwb.cuicvfgbcobdgc.fxcfkgbecfcheqwbocpvbbitcHugcnspcpvbbicnf.coqg
ebkebpnb.cnsj;cnbcrfwb.cuichsvsqup,cseesgfhvb,csvv-gbjibeb.,cfo.cvqqwb.
rsgncnfgeb.cfgcnspceqqjtcSgcrfpcfcgsoxc uihqfe.cqkcfceqqjcfhqugcpsd
if bpcsocvboagntcSgcnf.cfciqybegx-pges wbocfiibfefo bcrsgncsgpc.upgx
xbvvqrcifibecibbvsoacqkkcgnbcrfvvp,cfo.csgcrfpcpqcvqr-isg nb.cgnfgcfcjfo
qkcjqebcgnfocfybefabcnbsangcrfpcsvvcfgcbfpbcsocsgcfo.ckbvgcbybexcjqjbog
gnfgcnbcrquv.cwoq wcnspcnbf.cfafsopgcgnbc bsvsoatcGnbckueosguebcrfpcso
wbbisoacrsgncgnbceqqj:cgnbebcrbebcgnebbcqv.c nfsep,cefgnbeces wbgx;cf
ifsogb.cgfhvbcsocgnbc qeobecqocrns ncvfxcfckbrcjfoup esigpcfo.chqqwp;
gnbc.upgcgnfgcvfxcgns wcuiqocgnbjcpnqrb.cgnfgcgnbxcnf.chbbocvqoa
uogqu nb.tcFchsac vujpxcpqkfcq  uisb.cfvjqpgcgnbcrnqvbcqkcqobcrfvvcfo.
nfvkcgnbckvqqecpif bcqkcgnbceqqj;csgcrfpcqo bc qybeb.crsgnc nsogz,chug
rfpcoqrcsocefapcfo.cpbeyb.cEfpwqvoswqycfpcfchb.tcQkgbocnbcrbogcgqcpvbbi
qocsg,cfpcnbcrfp,crsgnqugcuo.ebppsoa,crsgnqugcpnbbgp,crefiib.csocnspcqv.
pgu.bog’pcqybe qfg,crsgncnspcnbf.cqocqobcvsggvbcisvvqr,cuo.becrns ncnb
nbfib.cuicfvvcgnbcvsobocnbcnf.,c vbfocfo.c.segx,chxcrfxcqkcfchqvpgbetcF
vsggvbcgfhvbcpgqq.csockeqogcqkcgnbcpqkft

Sgcrquv.cnfybchbboc.skks uvgcgqcpsowcgqcfcvqrbecbhhcqkc.spqe.be,chugcgq
Efpwqvoswqycsocnspciebpbogcpgfgbcqkcjso.cgnspcrfpciqpsgsybvxcfaebbfhvbt
Nbcnf.caqgc qjivbgbvxcfrfxckeqjcbybexqob,cvswbcfcgqegqspbcsocsgpcpnbvv,
fo.cbybocgnbcpsangcqkcfcpbeyfogcasevcrnqcnf.cgqcrfsgcuiqocnsjcfo.cvqqwb.
pqjbgsjbpcsogqcnspceqqjcjf.bcnsjcresgnbcrsgncobeyqupcseesgfgsqotcNbcrfp
socgnbc qo.sgsqocgnfgcqybegfwbpcpqjbcjqoqjfosf pcbogsebvxc qo bogefgb.
uiqocqobcgnsoatcNspcvfo.vf.xcnf.ckqecgnbcvfpgckqegosangcasybocuicpbo.soa
nsjcsocjbfvp,cfo.cnbcnf.coqgcxbgcgnquangcqkcbdiqpguvfgsoacrsgncnbe,
gnquancnbcrbogcrsgnqugcnspc.soobetcOfpgfpxf,cgnbc qqwcfo.cqovxcpbeyfog,
rfpcefgnbecivbfpb.cfgcgnbcvq.abe’pcjqq.cfo.cnf.cbogsebvxcasybocui
prbbisoacfo.c.qsoacnspceqqj,cqovxcqo bcfcrbbwcqecpqcpnbcrquv.cpgefxcsogq
nspceqqjcrsgncfcheqqjtcPnbcrfwb.cnsjcuicgnfgc.fxt

“Abgcui,crnxcfebcxqucfpvbbi?”cpnbc fvvb.cgqcnsjtc“Sg’pcifpgcosob,cScnfyb
hequangcxqucpqjbcgbf;crsvvcxqucnfybcfc ui?cScpnquv.cgnsowcxqu’ebckfsevx
pgfeysoa?”

Efpwqvoswqycqibob.cnspcbxbp,cpgfegb.cfo.ceb qaospb.cOfpgfpxft

“Keqjcgnbcvfo.vf.x,cbn?”cnbcfpwb.,cpvqrvxcfo.crsgncfcps wvxckf bcpsggsoa
uicqocgnbcpqkft

“Keqjcgnbcvfo.vf.x,cso.bb.!”

Pnbcpbgchbkqebcnsjcnbecqroc ef wb.cgbfiqgckuvvcqkcrbfwcfo.cpgfvbcgbfcfo.
vfs.cgrqcxbvvqrcvujipcqkcpuafechxcgnbcps.bcqkcsgt

“Nbeb,cOfpgfpxf,cgfwbcsgcivbfpb,”cnbcpfs.,ckujhvsoacsocnspciq wbgc(kqe
nbcnf.cpvbigcsocnspc vqgnbp)cfo.cgfwsoacqugcfcnfo.kuvcqkc qiibep--“euo
fo.chuxcjbcfcvqfktcFo.cabgcjbcfcvsggvbcpfupfab,cgnbc nbfibpg,cfgcgnb
iqew-hug nbe’pt”

“GnbcvqfkcS’vvckbg ncxqucgnspcybexcjsougb,chugcrquv.o’gcxqucefgnbecnfyb
pqjbc fhhfabcpquicsopgbf.cqkcpfupfab?cSg’pc fisgfvcpqui,cxbpgbe.fx’ptcS
pfyb.csgckqecxqucxbpgbe.fx,chugcxquc fjbcsocvfgbtcSg’pcksobcpquit”

Rnbocgnbcpquicnf.chbbochequang,cfo.cnbcnf.chbauocuiqocsg,cOfpgfpxf
pfgc.qrochbps.bcnsjcqocgnbcpqkfcfo.chbafoc nfggsoatcPnbcrfpcfc quogex
ibfpfog-rqjfocfo.cfcybexcgfvwfgsybcqobt

“IefpwqyxfcIfyvqyofcjbfopcgqc qjivfsocgqcgnbciqvs bcfhqugcxqu,”cpnb
pfs.t

Nbcp qrvb.t

“Gqcgnbciqvs b?cRnfgc.qbpcpnbcrfog?”

“Xquc.qo’gcifxcnbecjqobxcfo.cxqucrqo’gcgueocqugcqkcgnbceqqjtcGnfg’pcrnfg
pnbcrfogp,cgqchbcpuebt”

“Gnbc.bysv,cgnfg’pcgnbcvfpgcpgefr,”cnbcjuggbeb.,caeso.soacnspcgbbgn,
“oq,cgnfgcrquv.coqgcpusgcjbtttcmupgcoqrtcPnbcspcfckqqv,”cnbcf..b.cfvqu.t
“S’vvcaqcfo.cgfvwcgqcnbecgq-.fxt”

“Kqqvcpnbcspcfo.coqcjspgfwb,cmupgcfpcScfjtcHugcrnx,cskcxqucfebcpq
 vbybe,c.qcxqucvsbcnbebcvswbcfcpf wcfo.cnfybcoqgnsoacgqcpnqrckqecsg?cQob
gsjbcxqucupb.cgqcaqcqug,cxqucpfx,cgqcgbf nc nsv.ebotcHugcrnxcspcsgcxqu
.qcoqgnsoacoqr?”

“Scfjc.qsoattt”cEfpwqvoswqychbafocpuvvbovxcfo.cebvu gfogvxt

“Rnfgcfebcxquc.qsoa?”

“Rqewttt”

“Rnfgcpqegcqkcrqew?”

“Scfjcgnsowsoa,”cnbcfoprbeb.cpbesqupvxcfkgbecfcifupbt

Ofpgfpxfcrfpcqybe qjbcrsgncfcksgcqkcvfuangbetcPnbcrfpcasybocgqcvfuangbe
fo.crnbocfoxgnsoacfjupb.cnbe,cpnbcvfuanb.csofu.shvx,clusybesoacfo.
pnfwsoacfvvcqybecgsvvcpnbckbvgcsvvt

“Fo.cnfybcxqucjf.bcju ncjqobxchxcxquecgnsowsoa?”cpnbcjfofab.cgq
fegs uvfgbcfgcvfpgt

“Qobc fo’gcaqcqugcgqcasybcvbppqopcrsgnqugchqqgptcFo.cS’jcps wcqkcsgt”

“.qo’gclufeebvcrsgncxquechebf.cfo.chuggbet”

“GnbxcifxcpqcvsggvbckqecvbppqoptcRnfg’pcgnbcupbcqkcfckbrc qiibep?”cnb
foprbeb.,cebvu gfogvx,cfpcgnquancebivxsoacgqcnspcqrocgnquangt

“Fo.cxqucrfogcgqcabgcfckqeguobcfvvcfgcqo b?”

Nbcvqqwb.cfgcnbecpgefoabvxt

“Xbp,cScrfogcfckqeguob,”cnbcfoprbeb.cksejvx,cfkgbecfchesbkcifupbt

“.qo’gchbcsocpu ncfcnueex,cxquclusgbckesangbocjb!cPnfvvcScabgcxqucgnb
vqfkcqecoqg?”

“Fpcxqucivbfpbt”

“Fn,cSckqeaqg!cFcvbggbec fjbckqecxqucxbpgbe.fxcrnbocxqucrbebcqugt”

“Fcvbggbe?ckqecjb!ckeqjcrnqj?”

“Sc fo’gcpfxtcScafybcgnebbc qib wpcqkcjxcqrocgqcgnbciqpgjfockqecsgtcRsvv
xqucifxcjbchf w?”

“Gnbochesoacsgcgqcjb,ckqecAq.’pcpfwb,chesoacsg,”c esb.cEfpwqvoswqy
aebfgvxcbd sgb.--“aqq.cAq.!”

FcjsougbcvfgbecgnbcvbggbecrfpchequangcnsjtcGnfgcrfpcsg:ckeqjcnspcjqgnbe,
keqjcgnbcieqyso bcqkcE----tcNbcgueob.cifvbcrnbocnbcgqqwcsgtcSgcrfpcf
vqoacrnsvbcpso bcnbcnf.ceb bsyb.cfcvbggbe,chugcfoqgnbeckbbvsoacfvpq
pu..bovxcpgfhhb.cnspcnbfegt

“Ofpgfpxf,cvbfybcjbcfvqob,ckqecaqq.obpp’cpfwb;cnbebcfebcxquecgnebb
 qib wp,chugckqecaqq.obpp’cpfwb,cjfwbcnfpgbcfo.caq!”

Gnbcvbggbecrfpclusybesoacsocnspcnfo.;cnbc.s.coqgcrfogcgqcqibocsgcsocnbe
iebpbo b;cnbcrfogb.cgqchbcvbkgc_fvqob_crsgncgnspcvbggbetcRnbocOfpgfpxf
nf.caqobcqug,cnbcvskgb.csgclus wvxcgqcnspcvsipcfo.cwsppb.csg;cgnbocnb
afzb.csogbogvxcfgcgnbcf..ebpp,cgnbcpjfvv,cpvqisoacnfo.resgsoa,cpqc.bfe
fo.ckfjsvsfe,cqkcgnbcjqgnbecrnqcnf.cqo bcgfuangcnsjcgqcebf.cfo.cresgbt
Nbc.bvfxb.;cnbcpbbjb.cfvjqpgcfkefs.cqkcpqjbgnsoatcFgcvfpgcnbcqibob.csg;
sgcrfpcfcgns wcnbfyxcvbggbe,crbsansoacqybecgrqcquo bp,cgrqcvfeabcpnbbgp
qkcoqgbcifibecrbebc qybeb.crsgncybexcpjfvvcnfo.resgsoat

“Jxc.bfecEq.xf,”creqgbcnspcjqgnbe--“sg’pcgrqcjqognpcpso bcScvfpgcnf.cf
gfvwcrsgncxquchxcvbggbecrns ncnfpc.spgebppb.cjbcfo.cbybocwbigcjb
frfwbcfgcosang,cgnsowsoatcHugcScfjcpuebcxqucrsvvcoqgchvfjbcjbckqecjx
sobysgfhvbcpsvbo btcXqucwoqrcnqrcScvqybcxqu;cxqucfebcfvvcrbcnfybcgqcvqqw
gq,c.quosfcfo.cS,cxqucfebcquecfvv,cquecqobcnqib,cquecqobcpgfxtcRnfgcf
aesbkcsgcrfpcgqcjbcrnbocScnbfe.cgnfgcxqucnf.casybocuicgnbcuosybepsgx
pqjbcjqognpcfaq,ckqecrfogcqkcjbfopcgqcwbbicxquepbvkcfo.cgnfgcxqucnf.
vqpgcxquecvbppqopcfo.cxquecqgnbecrqew!cNqrc quv.cScnbvicxqucqugcqkcjx
nuo.eb.cfo.cgrbogxcequhvbpcfcxbfecibopsqo?cGnbckskgbbocequhvbpcScpbog
xquckquecjqognpcfaqcSchqeeqrb.,cfpcxqucwoqr,cqocpb uesgxcqkcjxcibopsqo,
keqjcYfppsvxcSyfoqysg ncYfneupnsocfcjbe nfogcqkcgnspcgqrotcNbcspcf
wso.-nbfegb.cjfocfo.crfpcfckesbo.cqkcxqueckfgnbe’pcgqqtcHugcnfysoacasybo
nsjcgnbcesangcgqceb bsybcgnbcibopsqo,cScnf.cgqcrfsgcgsvvcgnbc.bhgcrfp
ifs.cqkkcfo.cgnfgcspcqovxcmupgc.qob,cpqcgnfgcS’ybchbbocuofhvbcgqcpbo.
xqucfoxgnsoacfvvcgnspcgsjbtcHugcoqr,cgnfowcAq.,cSchbvsbybcScpnfvv
hbcfhvbcgqcpbo.cxqucpqjbgnsoacjqebcfo.csockf gcrbcjfxc qoaefguvfgb
quepbvybpcqocquecaqq.ckqeguobcoqr,cqkcrns ncScnfpgbocgqcsokqejcxqutcSo
gnbcksepgcivf b,crquv.cxqucnfybcaubppb.,c.bfecEq.xf,cgnfgcxquecpspgbe
nfpchbbocvsysoacrsgncjbckqecgnbcvfpgcpsdcrbbwpcfo.crbcpnfvvcoqgchb
pbifefgb.csocgnbckuguebtcGnfowcAq.,cnbecpukkbesoapcfebcqybe,chugcScrsvv
gbvvcxqucbybexgnsoacsocqe.be,cpqcgnfgcxqucjfxcwoqrcmupgcnqrcbybexgnsoa
nfpcnfiibob.cfo.cfvvcgnfgcrbcnfybcnsgnbegqc qo bfvb.ckeqjcxqutcRnbocxqu
reqgbcgqcjbcgrqcjqognpcfaqcgnfgcxqucnf.cnbfe.cgnfgc.quosfcnf.cfcaebfg
.bfvcgqciugcuicrsgncsocgnbcPys.esafïvqyp’cnqupb,crnbocxqucreqgbcgnfg
fo.cfpwb.cjbcgqcgbvvcxqucfvvcfhqugcsg--rnfgc quv.cScresgbcsocfoprbecgq
xqu?cSkcScnf.cresggbocgnbcrnqvbcgeugncgqcxqu,cSc.febcpfxcxqucrquv.cnfyb
gneqrocuicbybexgnsoacfo.cnfybc qjbcgqcup,cbybocskcxqucnf.cgqcrfvwcfvv
gnbcrfx,ckqecScwoqrcxquec nfef gbecfo.cxqueckbbvsoap,cfo.cxqucrquv.coqg
vbgcxquecpspgbechbcsopuvgb.tcScrfpcsoc.bpifsecjxpbvk,chugcrnfgc quv.cS
.q?cFo.,chbps.bp,cSc.s.coqgcwoqrcgnbcrnqvbcgeugncjxpbvkcgnbotcRnfg
jf.bcsgcfvvcpqc.skks uvgcrfpcgnfgc.quosfceb bsyb.cfcnuo.eb.cequhvbp
socf.yfo bcrnbocpnbcgqqwcgnbcivf bcfpcaqybeobppcsocgnbseckfjsvx,cqo
 qo.sgsqocqkcifegcqkcnbecpfvfexchbsoac.b.u gb.cbybexcjqogn,cfo.cpqcsg
rfpcsjiqppshvbcgqcgneqrcuicgnbcpsgufgsqocrsgnqugcebifxsoacgnbc.bhgt
Gnspcpujc(oqrcSc focbdivfsocsgcfvvcgqcxqu,cjxcieb squpcEq.xf)cpnbcgqqw
 nsbkvxcsocqe.becgqcpbo.cxqucpsdgxcequhvbp,crns ncxqucobb.b.cpqcgbeeshvx
gnbocfo.crns ncxquceb bsyb.ckeqjcupcvfpgcxbfetcRbc.b bsyb.cxqucgnbo,
resgsoacgnfgcgnspcjqobxc fjbckeqjc.quosf’pcpfysoap,chugcgnfgcrfpcoqg
pq,cfo.coqrcScgbvvcxqucfvvcfhqugcsg,chb fupb,cgnfowcAq.,cgnsoapcnfyb
pu..bovxc nfoab.ckqecgnbchbggbe,cfo.cgnfgcxqucjfxcwoqrcnqrc.quosfcvqybp
xqucfo.crnfgcfcnbfegcpnbcnfptcFgcksepgcso.bb.cJetcPys.esafïvqycgebfgb.
nbecybexceu.bvxcfo.cupb.cgqcjfwbc.spebpib gkuvcfo.cmbbesoacebjfewpcfg
gfhvbttttcHugcSc.qo’gcrfogcgqcaqcsogqcfvvcgnqpbcifsokuvc.bgfsvp,cpqcfp
oqgcgqcrqeexcxquckqecoqgnsoacrnbocsgcspcoqrcfvvcqybetcSocpnqeg,csocpisgb
qkcgnbcwso.cfo.cabobequpchbnfysquecqkcJfekfcIbgeqyof,cJetcPys.esafïvqy’p
rskb,cfo.cfvvcgnbcebpgcqkcgnbcnqupbnqv.,c.quosfcnf.cfcybexcnfe.cgsjb,
bpib sfvvxcrnbocJetcPys.esafïvqy,cebvfipsoacsogqcnspcqv.cebasjbogfv
nfhsgp,crfpcuo.becgnbcsokvubo bcqkcHf  nuptcFo.cnqrc.qcxqucgnsowcsg
rfpcfvvcbdivfsob.cvfgbecqo?cRquv.cxquchbvsbybcgnfgcgnbc efzxckbvvqrcnf.
 qo bsyb.cfcifppsqockqec.quosfckeqjcgnbchbasoosoa,chugcnf.c qo bfvb.
sgcuo.becfcpnqrcqkceu.bobppcfo.c qogbjigtcIqppshvxcnbcrfpcfpnfjb.cfo.
nqeesksb.cnsjpbvkcfgcnspcqrockvsangxcnqibp,c qops.besoacnspcxbfepcfo.
nspchbsoacgnbckfgnbecqkcfckfjsvx;cfo.cgnfgcjf.bcnsjcfoaexcrsgnc.quosft
Fo.ciqppshvx,cgqq,cnbcnqib.chxcnspceu.bcfo.cpobbesoachbnfysquecgqcns.b
gnbcgeugnckeqjcqgnbeptcHugcfgcvfpgcnbcvqpgcfvvc qogeqvcfo.cnf.cgnbckf b
gqcjfwbc.quosfcfocqibocfo.cpnfjbkuvcieqiqpfv,cieqjspsoacnbecfvvcpqegpcqk
so.u bjbogpcfo.cqkkbesoa,chbps.bp,cgqcgneqrcuicbybexgnsoacfo.cgfwbcnbe
gqcfoqgnbecbpgfgbcqkcnsp,cqecbybocfheqf.tcXquc focsjfasobcfvvcpnbcrbog
gnequan!cGqcvbfybcnbecpsgufgsqocfgcqo bcrfpcsjiqppshvbcoqgcqovxcqo
f  quogcqkcgnbcjqobxc.bhg,chugcfvpqcgqcpifebcgnbckbbvsoapcqkcJfekf
Ibgeqyof,crnqpbcpupis sqopcrquv.cnfybchbbocfequpb.:cfo.cgnboc.quosf
rquv.cnfybchbbocgnbc fupbcqkcfceuiguebcsocgnbckfjsvxtcFo.csgcrquv.
nfybcjbfogcfcgbeeshvbcp fo.fvckqec.quosfcgqq;cgnfgcrquv.cnfybchbbo
sobysgfhvbtcGnbebcrbebcyfesqupcqgnbecebfpqopcqrsoacgqcrns nc.quosfc quv.
oqgcnqibcgqcbp fibckeqjcgnfgcfrkuvcnqupbckqecfoqgnbecpsdcrbbwptcXqucwoqr
.quosf,cqkc quepb;cxqucwoqrcnqrc vbybecpnbcspcfo.crnfgcfcpgeqoacrsvvcpnb
nfptc.quosfc focbo.uebcfcaebfgc.bfvcfo.cbybocsocgnbcjqpgc.skks uvgc fpbp
pnbcnfpcgnbckqegsgu.bcgqcjfsogfsocnbecksejobpptcPnbc.s.coqgcbybocresgb
gqcjbcfhqugcbybexgnsoackqeckbfecqkcuipbggsoacjb,cfvgnquancrbcrbeb
 qopgfogvxcsoc qjjuos fgsqotcSgcfvvcbo.b.cybexcuobdib gb.vxtcJfekf
Ibgeqyofcf  s.bogfvvxcqybenbfe.cnbecnuphfo.csjivqesoac.quosfcsocgnb
afe.bo,cfo.,ciuggsoaclusgbcfcreqoacsogbeiebgfgsqocqocgnbciqpsgsqo,cgnebr
gnbchvfjbcuiqocnbe,chbvsbysoacnbecgqchbcgnbc fupbcqkcsgcfvvtcFocfrkuv
p bobcgqqwcivf bchbgrbbocgnbjcqocgnbcpiqgcsocgnbcafe.bo;cJfekfcIbgeqyof
rbogcpqckfecfpcgqcpgeswbc.quosf,cebkupb.cgqcnbfecfoxgnsoacfo.crfp
pnqugsoacfgcnbeckqecfcrnqvbcnquecfo.cgnbocafybcqe.bepcgnfgc.quosfcpnquv.
hbcif wb.cqkkcfgcqo bcgqcjbcsocfcivfsocibfpfog’pc feg,csogqcrns ncgnbx
kvuoacfvvcnbecgnsoap,cnbecvsobocfo.cnbec vqgnbp,cfvvcibvv-jbvv,crsgnqug
kqv.soacsgcuicfo.cif wsoacsgtcFo.cfcnbfyxcpnqrbecqkcefsoc fjbcqo,cgqq,
fo.c.quosf,csopuvgb.cfo.ciugcgqcpnfjb,cnf.cgqc.esybcrsgncfcibfpfogcsocfo
qiboc fegcfvvcgnbcpbybogbbocybepgpcsogqcgqrotcQovxcgnsowcoqrcrnfgcfoprbe
 quv.cScnfybcpbogcgqcgnbcvbggbecSceb bsyb.ckeqjcxqucgrqcjqognpcfaqcfo.
rnfgc quv.cScnfybcresggbo?cScrfpcsoc.bpifse;cSc.feb.coqgcresgbcgq
xqucgnbcgeugnchb fupbcxqucrquv.cnfybchbbocybexcuonfiix,cjqegsksb.
fo.cso.saofog,cfo.cxbgcrnfgc quv.cxquc.q?cXquc quv.cqovxcibenfipceuso
xquepbvk,cfo.,chbps.bp,c.quosfcrquv.coqgcfvvqrcsg;cfo.cksvvcuicjxcvbggbe
rsgncgeskvbpcrnbocjxcnbfegcrfpcpqckuvvcqkcpqeeqr,cSc quv.coqgtcKqecf
rnqvbcjqogncgnbcgqrocrfpckuvvcqkcaqppsicfhqugcgnspcp fo.fv,cfo.csgc fjb
gqcpu ncfcifppcgnfgc.quosfcfo.cSc.feb.coqgcbybocaqcgqc nue ncqocf  quog
qkcgnbc qogbjiguqupcvqqwp,crnspibep,cfo.cbybocebjfewpcjf.bcfvqu.cfhqug
uptcFvvcquecf lufsogfo bpcfyqs.b.cup,coqhq.xcbybochqrb.cgqcupcsocgnb
pgebbg,cfo.cScvbfeogcgnfgcpqjbcpnqijbocfo.c vbewpcrbebcsogbo.soacgq
sopuvgcupcsocfcpnfjbkuvcrfx,cpjbfesoacgnbcafgbpcqkcquecnqupbcrsgncisg n,
pqcgnfgcgnbcvfo.vqe.chbafocgqcgbvvcupcrbcjupgcvbfybtcFvvcgnspcrfpcpbg
aqsoachxcJfekfcIbgeqyofcrnqcjfofab.cgqcpvfo.bec.quosfcfo.cgneqrc.segcfg
nbecsocbybexckfjsvxtcPnbcwoqrpcbybexqobcsocgnbcobsanhquenqq.,cfo.cgnfg
jqogncpnbcrfpc qogsoufvvxc qjsoacsogqcgnbcgqro,cfo.cfpcpnbcsp
efgnbecgfvwfgsybcfo.ckqo.cqkcaqppsisoacfhqugcnbeckfjsvxcfkkfsepcfo.
ifegs uvfevxcqkc qjivfsosoacgqcfvvcfo.cbf ncqkcnbecnuphfo.--rns ncspcoqg
fgcfvvcesang--pqcsocfcpnqegcgsjbcpnbcnf.cpiebf.cnbecpgqexcoqgcqovxcso
gnbcgqro,chugcqybecgnbcrnqvbcpueequo.soac.spges gtcSgcjf.bcjbcsvv,chug
.quosfchqebcsgchbggbecgnfocSc.s.,cfo.cskcqovxcxquc quv.cnfybcpbbocnqr
pnbcbo.ueb.csgcfvvcfo.cgesb.cgqc qjkqegcjbcfo.c nbbecjbcui!cPnbcsp
focfoabv!cHugchxcAq.’pcjbe x,cquecpukkbesoapcrbebc ugcpnqeg:cJet
Pys.esafïvqycebgueob.cgqcnspcpbopbpcfo.cebibogb.cfo.,cieqhfhvx
kbbvsoacpqeexckqec.quosf,cnbcvfs.chbkqebcJfekfcIbgeqyofcfc qjivbgbcfo.
uojspgfwfhvbcieqqkcqkc.quosf’pcsooq bo b,csocgnbckqejcqkcfcvbggbec.quosf
nf.chbbockqe b.cgqcresgbcfo.casybcgqcnsj,chbkqebcJfekfcIbgeqyof
 fjbcuiqocgnbjcsocgnbcafe.botcGnspcvbggbe,crns ncebjfsob.csocJet
Pys.esafïvqy’pcnfo.pcfkgbecnbec.bifegueb,cpnbcnf.cresggbocgqcebkupb
ibepqofvcbdivfofgsqopcfo.cpb ebgcsogbeysbrp,ckqecrns ncnbcrfpcbogebfgsoa
nbetcSocgnfgcvbggbecpnbcebieqf nb.cnsjcrsgncaebfgcnbfgcfo.cso.saofgsqo
kqecgnbchfpbobppcqkcnspchbnfysquecsocebafe.cgqcJfekfcIbgeqyof,cebjso.soa
nsjcgnfgcnbcrfpcgnbckfgnbecfo.cnbf.cqkcfckfjsvxcfo.cgbvvsoacnsjcnqr
sokfjqupcsgcrfpcqkcnsjcgqcgqejbogcfo.cjfwbcuonfiixcfc.bkbo bvbppcasev,
uonfiixcboquancfvebf.xtcSo.bb.,c.bfecEq.xf,cgnbcvbggbecrfpcpqcoqhvxcfo.
gqu nsoavxcresggbocgnfgcScpqhhb.crnbocScebf.csgcfo.cgqcgnspc.fxcSc fooqg
ebf.csgcrsgnqugcgbfeptcJqebqybe,cgnbcbys.bo bcqkcgnbcpbeyfogp,cgqq,
 vbfeb.c.quosf’pcebiugfgsqo;cgnbxcnf.cpbbocfo.cwoqrocfcaebfgc.bfvcjqeb
gnfocJetcPys.esafïvqycnf.cnsjpbvkcpuiiqpb.--fpcso.bb.cspcfvrfxpcgnbc fpb
rsgncpbeyfogptcJfekfcIbgeqyofcrfpc qjivbgbvxcgfwbocfhf w,cfo.c‘fafso
 eupnb.’cfpcpnbcpfs.cnbepbvkcgqcup,chugcpnbcrfpc qjivbgbvxc qoyso b.cqk
.quosf’pcsooq bo btcGnbcybexcobdgc.fx,chbsoacPuo.fx,cpnbcrbogcpgefsang
gqcgnbc fgnb.efv,cwobvgc.qrocfo.ciefxb.crsgncgbfepcgqcQuecVf.xcgqcasyb
nbecpgeboagncgqchbfecgnspcobrcgesfvcfo.cgqc.qcnbec.ugxtcGnbocpnb
 fjbcpgefsangckeqjcgnbc fgnb.efvcgqcup,cgqv.cupcgnbcrnqvbcpgqex,crbig
hsggbevxcfo.,ckuvvxcibosgbog,cpnbcbjhef b.c.quosfcfo.chbpquangcnbecgq
kqeasybcnbetcGnbcpfjbcjqeosoacrsgnqugcfoxc.bvfx,cpnbcrbogcequo.cgqcfvv
gnbcnqupbpcsocgnbcgqrocfo.cbybexrnbeb,cpnb..soacgbfep,cpnbcfppbegb.cso
gnbcjqpgckvfggbesoacgbejpc.quosf’pcsooq bo bcfo.cgnbcoqhsvsgxcqk
nbeckbbvsoapcfo.cnbechbnfysqetcRnfgcrfpcjqeb,cpnbcpnqrb.cfo.cebf.cgq
bybexqobcgnbcvbggbecsoc.quosf’pcqrocnfo.resgsoacgqcJetcPys.esafïvqycfo.
bybocfvvqrb.cgnbjcgqcgfwbc qisbpcqkcsg--rns ncScjupgcpfxcScgnsowcrfp
puibekvuquptcSocgnspcrfxcpnbcrfpchupxckqecpbybefvc.fxpcsoc.esysoacfhqug
gnbcrnqvbcgqro,chb fupbcpqjbcibqivbcnf.cgfwbocqkkbo bcgnequancieb b.bo b
nfysoachbbocasybocgqcqgnbeptcFo.cgnbebkqebcgnbxcnf.cgqcgfwbcgueop,cpq
gnfgcsocbybexcnqupbcpnbcrfpcbdib gb.chbkqebcpnbcfeesyb.,cfo.cbybexqob
wobrcgnfgcqocpu ncfo.cpu ncfc.fxcJfekfcIbgeqyofcrquv.chbcebf.soacgnb
vbggbecsocpu ncfo.cpu ncfcivf bcfo.cibqivbcfppbjhvb.ckqecbybexcebf.soa
qkcsg,cbybocjfoxcrnqcnf.cnbfe.csgcpbybefvcgsjbpcfvebf.xchqgncsocgnbse
qrocnqupbpcfo.csocqgnbecibqivb’ptcSocjxcqisosqocfcaebfgc.bfv,cfcybex
aebfgc.bfvcqkcfvvcgnspcrfpcuoob bppfex;chugcgnfg’pcJfekfcIbgeqyof’p
 nfef gbetcFoxrfxcpnbcpu  bb.b.csoc qjivbgbvxceb-bpgfhvspnsoac.quosf’p
ebiugfgsqocfo.cgnbcrnqvbcsaoqjsoxcqkcgnspcfkkfsecebpgb.cfpcfocso.bvshvb
.spaef bcuiqocnbecnuphfo.,cfpcgnbcqovxcibepqocgqchvfjb,cpqcgnfgcScebfvvx
hbafocgqckbbvcpqeexckqecnsj;csgcrfpcebfvvxcgebfgsoacgnbc efzxckbvvqrcgqq
nfepnvxtc.quosfcrfpcfgcqo bcfpwb.cgqcasybcvbppqopcsocpbybefvckfjsvsbp,
hugcpnbcebkupb.tcFvvcqkcfcpu..bocbybexqobchbafocgqcgebfgcnbecrsgncjfewb.
ebpib gcfo.cfvvcgnspc.s.cju ncgqchesoacfhqugcgnbcbybogchxcrns n,cqobcjfx
pfx,cquecrnqvbckqeguobpcfebcoqrcgefopkqejb.tcXqucjupgcwoqr,c.bfecEq.xf,
gnfgc.quosfcnfpcfcpusgqecfo.cgnfgcpnbcnfpcfvebf.xc qopbogb.cgqcjfeex
nsjtcScnfpgbocgqcgbvvcxqucfvvcfhqugcgnbcjfggbe,cfo.cgnquancsgcnfpchbbo
feefoab.crsgnqugcfpwsoacxquec qopbog,cScgnsowcxqucrsvvcoqgchbcfaaesbyb.
rsgncjbcqecrsgncxquecpspgbecqocgnfgcf  quog,ckqecxqucrsvvcpbbcgnfgcrb
 quv.coqgcrfsgcfo.ciugcqkkcquec.b spsqocgsvvcrbcnbfe.ckeqjcxqutcFo.cxqu
 quv.coqgcnfybcmu.ab.cfvvcgnbckf gpcrsgnqugchbsoacqocgnbcpiqgtcGnsp
rfpcnqrcsgcnfiibob.tcNbcspcfvebf.xcqkcgnbcefowcqkcfc quopbvvqe,cIxqge
Ibgeqysg ncVuznso,cfo.cspc.spgfogvxcebvfgb.cgqcJfekfcIbgeqyof,crnq
nfpchbbocybexcf gsybcsochesoasoacgnbcjfg ncfhqugtcSgchbafocrsgncnsp
bdiebppsoacgnequancnbecnspc.bpsebcgqcjfwbcquecf lufsogfo btcNbcrfp
ieqibevxceb bsyb.,c.efowc qkkbbcrsgncupcfo.cgnbcybexcobdgc.fxcnbcpbog
upcfcvbggbecsocrns ncnbcybexc quegbqupvxcjf.bcfocqkkbecfo.chbaab.ckqecf
pibb.xcfo.c.b s.b.cfoprbetcNbcspcfcybexchupxcjfocfo.cspcsocfcaebfgcnueex
gqcabgcgqcIbgbephuea,cpqcgnfgcbybexcjqjbogcspcieb squpcgqcnsjtcFgcksepg,
qkc quepb,crbcrbebcaebfgvxcpueiespb.,cfpcsgcnf.cfvvcnfiibob.cpqclus wvx
fo.cuobdib gb.vxtcRbcgnquangcfo.cgfvwb.csgcqybecgnbcrnqvbc.fxtcNbcspcf
rbvv-gq-.qcjfo,cgqchbc.bibo.b.cuiqo,cnbcnfpcgrqciqpgpcsocgnbcaqybeojbog
fo.cnfpcfvebf.xcjf.bcnspckqeguobtcSgcspcgeubcgnfgcnbcspckqegx-ksybcxbfep
qv.,chugcnbcspcqkcfckfsevxciebiqppbppsoacfiibfefo bcfo.cjsangcpgsvvchb
gnquangcfggef gsybchxcrqjbo,cfo.cnbcspcfvgqabgnbecfcybexcebpib gfhvbcfo.
iebpbogfhvbcjfo,cqovxcnbcpbbjpcfcvsggvbcjqeqpbcfo.cpqjbrnfgc qo bsgb.t
Hugciqppshvxcgnfgcjfxcqovxchbcgnbcsjiebppsqocnbcjfwbpcfgcksepgcpsangt
Fo.chbrfeb,c.bfecEq.xf,crnbocnbc qjbpcgqcIbgbephuea,cfpcnbcpnqegvxcrsvv
.q,chbrfebcqkcmu.asoacnsjcgqqcnfpgsvxcfo.cpbybebvx,cfpcxquecrfxcsp,csk
gnbebcspcfoxgnsoacxquc.qcoqgcvswbcsocnsjcfgcksepgcpsangtcScasybcxqucgnsp
rfeosoa,cfvgnquancSckbbvcpuebcgnfgcnbcrsvvcjfwbcfckfyquefhvbcsjiebppsqo
uiqocxqutcJqebqybe,csocqe.becgqcuo.bepgfo.cfoxcjfocqobcjupgchb
.bvshbefgbcfo.c febkuvcgqcfyqs.ckqejsoaciebmu.s bpcfo.cjspgfwbocs.bfp,
rns ncfebcybexc.skks uvgcgqc qeeb gcfo.cabgcqybecfkgberfe.ptcFo.cIxqge
Ibgeqysg n,cmu.asoachxcjfoxcso.s fgsqop,cspcfcgnqequanvxcbpgsjfhvbcjfot
Fgcnspcksepgcyspsg,cso.bb.,cnbcgqv.cupcgnfgcnbcrfpcfcief gs fvcjfo,chug
pgsvvcnbcpnfebp,cfpcnbcbdiebppb.csg,cjfoxcqkcgnbc qoys gsqopc‘qkcque
jqpgcespsoacabobefgsqo’cfo.cnbcspcfocqiiqobogcqkcfvvciebmu.s bptcNb
pfs.cfcaqq.c.bfvcjqeb,ckqecnbcpbbjpcfcvsggvbc qo bsgb.cfo.cvswbpcgqchb
vspgbob.cgq,chugcgnspcspcp fe bvxcfcys btcS,cqkc quepb,cuo.bepgqq.cybex
vsggvbcqkcsg,chugc.quosfcbdivfsob.cgqcjbcgnfg,cgnquancnbcspcoqgcfcjfo
qkcaebfgcb.u fgsqo,cnbcspc vbybecfo.cpbbjpcgqchbcaqq.-ofgueb.tcXqucwoqr
xquecpspgbe’pc nfef gbe,cEq.xftcPnbcspcfcebpqvugb,cpbopshvb,cifgsbogcfo.
abobequpcasev,chugcpnbcnfpcfcifppsqofgbcnbfeg,cfpcScwoqrcybexcrbvvt
Qkc quepb,cgnbebcspcoqcaebfgcvqybcbsgnbecqocnspcps.b,cqecqocnbep,chug
.quosfcspcfc vbybecasevcfo.cnfpcgnbcnbfegcqkcfocfoabv,cfo.crsvvcjfwb
sgcnbec.ugxcgqcjfwbcnbecnuphfo.cnfiixcrnqcqocnspcps.bcrsvvcjfwbcnbe
nfiisobppcnspc febtcQkcgnfgcrbcnfybcoqcaqq.cebfpqocgqc.quhg,cgnquancsg
jupgchbcf.jsggb.cgnbcjfggbecnfpchbbocfeefoab.csocaebfgcnfpgbtcHbps.bpcnb
spcfcjfocqkcaebfgcieu.bo bcfo.cnbcrsvvcpbb,cgqchbcpueb,cqkcnsjpbvk,cgnfg
nspcqrocnfiisobppcrsvvchbcgnbcjqebcpb ueb,cgnbcnfiisbec.quosfcspcrsgn
nsjtcFo.cfpckqecpqjbc.bkb gpcqkc nfef gbe,ckqecpqjbcnfhsgpcfo.cbybo
 begfsoc.skkbebo bpcqkcqisosqo--rns ncso.bb.cfebcsobysgfhvbcbybocso
gnbcnfiisbpgcjfeesfabp--.quosfcnfpcpfs.cgnfg,cfpcebafe.pcfvvcgnfg,cpnb
ebvsbpcqocnbepbvk,cgnfgcgnbebcspcoqgnsoacgqchbcuobfpxcfhqug,cfo.
gnfgcpnbcspcebf.xcgqciugcuicrsgncfcaebfgc.bfv,cskcqovxcgnbseckugueb
ebvfgsqopnsic fochbcfocnqoquefhvbcfo.cpgefsangkqerfe.cqobtcNbcpgeu wcjb,
kqecsopgfo b,cfgcksepg,cfpcefgnbecfheuig,chugcgnfgcjfxcrbvvc qjb
keqjcnspchbsoacfocqugpiqwbocjfo,cfo.cgnfgcspcoqc.quhgcnqrcsgcsptcKqe
sopgfo b,cfgcnspcpb qo.cyspsg,cfkgbecnbcnf.ceb bsyb.c.quosf’pc qopbog,
socgnbc quepbcqkc qoybepfgsqo,cnbc.b vfeb.cgnfgchbkqebcjfwsoa
.quosf’pcf lufsogfo b,cnbcnf.cjf.bcuicnspcjso.cgqcjfeexcfcasevcqk
aqq.cebiugfgsqo,crsgnqugc.qrexcfo.,cfhqybcfvv,cqobcrnqcnf.cbdibesbo b.
iqybegx,chb fupb,cfpcnbcbdivfsob.,cfcjfocquangcoqgcgqchbcso.bhgb.cgqcnsp
rskb,chugcgnfgcsgcspchbggbeckqecfcrskbcgqcvqqwcuiqocnbecnuphfo.cfpcnbe
hbobkf gqetcScjupgcf..cgnfgcnbcbdiebppb.csgcjqebcos bvxcfo.ciqvsgbvx
gnfocScnfybc.qob,ckqecScnfybckqeaqggbocnspcf gufvcinefpbpcfo.cqovx
ebjbjhbecgnbcjbfosoatcFo.,chbps.bp,csgcrfpcqhysqupvxcoqgcpfs.cqkc.bpsao,
hugcpvsiib.cqugcsocgnbcnbfgcqkc qoybepfgsqo,cpqcgnfgcnbcgesb.cfkgberfe.p
gqc qeeb gcnsjpbvkcfo.cpjqqgncsgcqybe,chugcfvvcgnbcpfjbcsgc.s.cpgeswb
jbcfpcpqjbrnfgceu.b,cfo.cScpfs.cpqcfkgberfe.pcgqc.quosftcHugc.quosfcrfp
ybdb.,cfo.cfoprbeb.cgnfgc‘rqe.pcfebcoqgc.bb.p,’cfo.cgnfg,cqkc quepb,csp
ibekb gvxcgeubtc.quosfc.s.coqgcpvbbicfvvcosangchbkqebcpnbcjf.bcui
nbecjso.,cfo.,cgnsowsoacgnfgcScrfpcfpvbbi,cpnbcaqgcqugcqkchb.cfo.crfp
rfvwsoacuicfo.c.qrocgnbceqqjcfvvcosang;cfgcvfpgcpnbcwobvgc.qrochbkqeb
gnbcswqocfo.ciefxb.cvqoacfo.ckbeybogvxcfo.csocgnbcjqeosoacpnbcgqv.cjb
gnfgcpnbcnf.c.b s.b.t

“Scnfybcjbogsqob.cfvebf.xcgnfgcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncspcmupgcpbggsoacqkkckqe
Ibgbephuea,crnbebcnbcnfpcfcaebfgc.bfvcqkchupsobpp,cfo.cnbcrfogpcgqcqibo
fcvbafvchuebfutcNbcnfpchbbocq  uisb.ckqecjfoxcxbfepcsoc qo.u gsoac sysv
fo.c qjjbe sfvcvsgsafgsqo,cfo.cqovxcgnbcqgnbec.fxcnbcrqocfocsjiqegfog
 fpbtcNbcnfpcgqchbcsocIbgbephueachb fupbcnbcnfpcfocsjiqegfogc fpbchbkqeb
gnbcPbofgbtcPq,cEq.xfc.bfe,cnbcjfxchbcqkcgnbcaebfgbpgcupbcgqcxqu,cso
bybexcrfxcso.bb.,cfo.c.quosfcfo.cScnfybcfaebb.cgnfgckeqjcgnspcybexc.fx
xquc quv.c.bksosgbvxcbogbecuiqocxquec febbecfo.cjsangc qops.becgnfg
xqueckuguebcspcjfewb.cqugcfo.cfppueb.ckqecxqutcQn,cskcqovxcgnspc qjbpcgq
ifpp!cGnspcrquv.chbcpu ncfchbobksgcgnfgcrbc quv.cqovxcvqqwcuiqocsgcfpcf
ieqys.bogsfvchvbppsoatc.quosfcspc.ebfjsoacqkcoqgnsoacbvpbtcRbcnfybcbybo
ybogueb.cfvebf.xcgqc.eqicfckbrcrqe.pcqocgnbcpuhmb gcgqcIxqgecIbgeqysg nt
Nbcrfpc fugsqupcsocnspcfoprbe,cfo.cpfs.cgnfg,cqkc quepb,cfpcnbc quv.coqg
abgcqocrsgnqugcfcpb ebgfex,csgcrquv.chbchbggbecgqchbcifxsoacfcpfvfexcgq
fcebvfgsqocgnfocgqcfcpgefoabe,cskcqovxcgnbckqejbecrbebcksggb.ckqecgnb
.ugsbpc(fpcgnquancgnbebc quv.chbc.quhgcqkcxquechbsoacksggb.!)chugcgnbo
nbcbdiebppb.c.quhgpcrnbgnbecxquecpgu.sbpcfgcgnbcuosybepsgxcrquv.cvbfyb
xqucgsjbckqecrqewcfgcnspcqkks btcGnbcjfggbec.eqiib.ckqecgnbcgsjb,chug
.quosfcspcgnsowsoacqkcoqgnsoacbvpbcoqrtcPnbcnfpchbbocsocfcpqegcqkckbybe
kqecgnbcvfpgckbrc.fxp,cfo.cnfpcfvebf.xcjf.bcfcebauvfecivfockqe
xquechb qjsoacsocgnbcbo.cfocfppq sfgbcfo.cbybocfcifegobecsocIxqge
Ibgeqysg n’pchupsobpp,crns ncjsangcrbvvchb,cpbbsoacgnfgcxqucfebcf
pgu.bogcqkcvfrtcScfjcsoc qjivbgbcfaebbjbogcrsgncnbe,cEq.xf,cfo.cpnfeb
fvvcnbecivfopcfo.cnqibp,cfo.cgnsowcgnbebcspcbybexcieqhfhsvsgxcqk
ebfvspsoacgnbjtcFo.csocpisgbcqkcIxqgecIbgeqysg n’pcbyfpsybobpp,cybex
ofguefvcfgciebpbogc(pso bcnbc.qbpcoqgcwoqrcxqu),c.quosfcspcksejvx
ibepuf.b.cgnfgcpnbcrsvvcafsocbybexgnsoachxcnbecaqq.csokvubo bcqybecnbe
kuguebcnuphfo.;cgnspcpnbcspceb wqosoacuiqotcQkc quepbcrbcfebc febkuv
oqgcgqcgfvwcqkcfoxcqkcgnbpbcjqebcebjqgbcivfopcgqcIxqgecIbgeqysg n,
bpib sfvvxcqkcxquechb qjsoacnspcifegobetcNbcspcfcief gs fvcjfocfo.cjsang
gfwbcgnspcybexc qv.vx,csgcjsangcfvvcpbbjcgqcnsjcpsjivxcfc.fx-.ebfjtcOqe
nfpcbsgnbec.quosfcqecSchebfgnb.cfcrqe.cgqcnsjcqkcgnbcaebfgcnqibpcrbcnfyb
qkcnspcnbvisoacupcgqcifxckqecxquecuosybepsgxcpgu.sbp;crbcnfybcoqgcpiqwbo
qkcsgcsocgnbcksepgcivf b,chb fupbcsgcrsvvc qjbcgqcifppcqkcsgpbvk,
vfgbecqo,cfo.cnbcrsvvcoqc.quhgcrsgnqugcrfpgsoacrqe.pcqkkbecgqc.qcsgcqk
nsjpbvk,c(fpcgnquancnbc quv.cebkupbc.quosfcgnfg)cgnbcjqebcebf.svxcpso b
xqucjfxchxcxquecqrocbkkqegpchb qjbcnspcesangcnfo.csocgnbcqkks b,cfo.
eb bsybcgnspcfppspgfo bcoqgcfpcfc nfesgx,chugcfpcfcpfvfexcbfeob.chxcxque
qrocrqewtc.quosfcrfogpcgqcfeefoabcsgcfvvcvswbcgnspcfo.cSclusgbcfaebb
rsgncnbetcFo.crbcnfybcoqgcpiqwbocqkcquecivfopckqecfoqgnbecebfpqo,cgnfg
sp,chb fupbcScifegs uvfevxcrfogb.cxqucgqckbbvcqocfocblufvckqqgsoacrnbo
xqucksepgcjbbgcnsjtcRnboc.quosfcpiqwbcgqcnsjcrsgncbognupsfpjcfhqug
xqu,cnbcfoprbeb.cgnfgcqobc quv.cobybecmu.abcqkcfcjfocrsgnqugcpbbsoa
nsjc vqpb,ckqecqobpbvk,cfo.cgnfgcnbcvqqwb.ckqerfe.cgqckqejsoacnspcqro
qisosqocrnbocnbcjfwbpcxquecf lufsogfo btc.qcxqucwoqr,cjxcieb squp
Eq.xf,cScgnsowcgnfgcibenfipckqecpqjbcebfpqopc(oqgnsoacgqc.qcrsgncIxqge
Ibgeqysg ncgnquan,cpsjivxckqecjxcqrocibepqofv,cibenfipcqv.-rqjfospn,
kfo sbp)cScpnquv.c.qchbggbecgqcaqcqocvsysoachxcjxpbvk,cfifeg,cgnfocrsgn
gnbj,cfkgbecgnbcrb..soatcScfjc qoyso b.cgnfgcnbcrsvvchbcabobequpcfo.
.bvs fgbcboquancgqcsoysgbcjbcfo.cgqcueabcjbcgqcebjfsocrsgncjxc.fuangbe
kqecgnbckugueb,cfo.cskcnbcnfpcpfs.coqgnsoacfhqugcsgcnsgnbegq,csgcsp
psjivxchb fupbcsgcnfpchbbocgfwbockqecaefogb.;chugcScpnfvvcebkupbtcScnfyb
oqgs b.cjqebcgnfocqo bcsocjxcvskbcgnfgcnuphfo.pc.qo’gclusgbcabgcqocrsgn
gnbsecjqgnbep-so-vfr,cfo.cSc.qo’gcrfogcgqchbcgnbcvbfpgchsgcsocfoxqob’p
rfx,cfo.ckqecjxcqrocpfwb,cgqq,crquv.cefgnbechbclusgbcso.bibo.bog,cpq
vqoacfpcScnfybcfc eupgcqkchebf.cqkcjxcqro,cfo.cpu nc nsv.ebocfpcxqucfo.
.quosftcSkciqppshvb,cScrquv.cpbggvbcpqjbrnbebcobfecxqu,ckqecgnbcjqpg
mqxkuvcisb bcqkcobrp,c.bfecEq.xf,cScnfybcwbigckqecgnbcbo.cqkcjxcvbggbe:
woqrcgnbo,cjxc.bfechqx,cgnfgcrbcjfx,cibenfip,chbcfvvcgqabgnbecsocf
ybexcpnqegcgsjbcfo.cjfxcbjhef bcqobcfoqgnbecfafsocfkgbecfcpbifefgsqocqk
fvjqpgcgnebbcxbfep!cSgcspcpbggvb.c_kqec begfso_cgnfgc.quosfcfo.cScfebcgq
pbgcqkkckqecIbgbephuea,cbdf gvxcrnbocSc.qo’gcwoqr,chugcybex,cybexcpqqo,
iqppshvxcsocfcrbbwtcSgcfvvc.bibo.pcqocIxqgecIbgeqysg ncrnqcrsvvcvbgcup
woqrcrnbocnbcnfpcnf.cgsjbcgqcvqqwcequo.cnsjcsocIbgbephueatcGqcpusgcnsp
qrocfeefoabjbogpcnbcspcfodsqupcgqcnfybcgnbc bebjqoxcfpcpqqocfpciqppshvb,
bybochbkqebcgnbckfpgcqkcQuecVf.x,cskcsgc quv.chbcjfofab.,cqecskcgnfgcsp
gqqcpqqocgqchbcebf.x,csjjb.sfgbvxcfkgbetcQn,crsgncrnfgcnfiisobppcScpnfvv
iebppcxqucgqcjxcnbfeg!c.quosfcspcfvvcbd sgbjbogcfgcgnbcmqxkuvcgnquang
qkcpbbsoacxqu,cpnbcpfs.cqobc.fxcsocmqwbcgnfgcpnbcrquv.chbcebf.xcgqcjfeex
IxqgecIbgeqysg nckqecgnfgcfvqobtcPnbcspcfocfoabv!cPnbcspcoqgcresgsoa
foxgnsoacgqcxqucoqr,cfo.cnfpcqovxcgqv.cjbcgqcresgbcgnfgcpnbcnfpcpqcju n,
pqcju ncgqcgbvvcxqucgnfgcpnbcspcoqgcaqsoacgqcgfwbcuicnbecibocoqr,ckqe
fckbrcvsobpcrquv.cgbvvcxqucoqgnsoa,cfo.csgcrquv.cqovxcjbfocuipbggsoa
nbepbvk;cpnbchs.pcjbcpbo.cxqucnbecvqybcfo.csooujbefhvbcwsppbptcHug
fvgnquancrbcpnfvvchbcjbbgsoacpqcpqqo,cibenfipcScpnfvvcpbo.cxqucfpcju n
jqobxcfpcSc focsocfc.fxcqecgrqtcOqrcgnfgcbybexqobcnfpcnbfe.cgnfgc.quosf
spcgqcjfeexcIxqgecIbgeqysg n,cjxc eb.sgcnfpcpu..bovxcsjieqyb.cfo.cScwoqr
gnfgcFkfofpxcSyfoqysg ncrsvvcgeupgcjbcoqrcbybocgqcpbybogx-ksybcequhvbp
qocgnbcpb uesgxcqkcjxcibopsqo,cpqcgnfgcibenfipcScpnfvvchbcfhvbcgqcpbo.
xqucgrbogx-ksybcqecbybocgnsegxcequhvbptcScrquv.cpbo.cxqucjqeb,chugcScfj
uobfpxcfhqugcquecgefybvvsoacbdibopbp;ckqecgnquancIxqgecIbgeqysg ncnfp
hbbocpqcwso.cfpcgqcuo.begfwbcifegcqkcgnbcbdibopbpcqkcgnbcmqueobx,cgnfg
spcgqcpfx,cnbcnfpcgfwbocuiqocnsjpbvkcgnbc qoybxfo bcqkcquechfapcfo.chsa
geuowc(rns ncrsvvchbc qoybxb.cgnequancpqjbcf lufsogfo bpcqkcnsp),crb
jupgceb wqocuiqocpqjbcbdibopbcqocquecfeesyfvcsocIbgbephuea,crnbebcrb
 fo’gchbcvbkgcrsgnqugcfcnfvkiboox,cfgcvbfpgckqecgnbcksepgckbrc.fxptcHug
rbcnfybc fv uvfgb.csgcfvv,c.quosfcfo.cS,cgqcgnbcvfpgciboox,cfo.crbcpbb
gnfgcgnbcmqueobxcrsvvcoqgc qpgcybexcju ntcSgcspcqovxcosobgxcybepgpckeqj
upcgqcgnbcefsvrfxcfo.crbcnfybc qjbcgqcfocfaebbjbogcrsgncfc.esybecrb
woqr,cpqcfpcgqchbcsocebf.sobpp;cfo.ckeqjcgnbebc.quosfcfo.cSc focgefybv
lusgbc qjkqegfhvxcgnse.c vfpptcPqcgnfgcScjfxcybexcvswbvxchbcfhvbcgqcpbo.
gqcxqucoqgcgrbogx-ksyb,chugcgnsegxcequhvbptcHugcboquan;cScnfybc qybeb.
grqcpnbbgpcfvebf.xcfo.cgnbebcspcoqcpif bcvbkgckqecjqeb;cquecrnqvb
nspgqex,chugcpqcjfoxcbybogpcnfybcnfiibob.!cFo.coqr,cjxcieb squpcEq.xf,
Scbjhef bcxqucfo.cpbo.cxqucfcjqgnbe’pchvbppsoacgsvvcrbcjbbgtcVqybc.quosf
xquecpspgbe,cEq.xf;cvqybcnbecfpcpnbcvqybpcxqucfo.cuo.bepgfo.cgnfgcpnb
vqybpcxquchbxqo.cbybexgnsoa,cjqebcgnfocnbepbvktcPnbcspcfocfoabvcfo.cxqu,
Eq.xf,cxqucfebcbybexgnsoacgqcup--quecqobcnqib,cquecqobc qopqvfgsqotcSk
qovxcxqucfebcnfiix,crbcpnfvvchbcnfiixtc.qcxqucpgsvvcpfxcxqueciefxbep,
Eq.xf,cfo.chbvsbybcsocgnbcjbe xcqkcquec ebfgqecfo.cquecEb.bbjbe?cScfj
fkefs.csocjxcnbfegcgnfgcxqucjfxcnfybchbbocyspsgb.chxcgnbcobrcpisesgcqk
soks.bvsgxcgnfgcspcfheqf.cgq-.fx;cSkcsgcspcpq,cSciefxckqecxqutcEbjbjhbe,
.bfechqx,cnqrcsocxquec nsv.nqq.,crnbocxqueckfgnbecrfpcvsysoa,cxqucupb.
gqcvspicxqueciefxbepcfgcjxcwobb,cfo.cnqrcnfiixcrbcfvvcrbebcsocgnqpb
.fxptcAqq.-hxb,cgsvvcrbcjbbgcgnbo--Scbjhef bcxqucrfejvx,crfejvx,crsgn
jfoxcwsppbpt

“Xquepcgsvvc.bfgn,

“IUV NBESFcEFPWQVOSWQYt”


Fvjqpgckeqjcgnbcksepg,crnsvbcnbcebf.cgnbcvbggbe,cEfpwqvoswqy’pckf bcrfp
rbgcrsgncgbfep;chugcrnbocnbcksospnb.csg,cnspckf bcrfpcifvbcfo.c.spgqegb.
fo.cfchsggbe,crefgnkuvcfo.cjfvsaofogcpjsvbcrfpcqocnspcvsiptcNbcvfs.cnsp
nbf.c.qrocqocnspcgnebf.hfebc.segxcisvvqrcfo.ciqo.beb.,ciqo.beb.cfcvqoa
gsjbtcNspcnbfegcrfpchbfgsoacysqvbogvx,cfo.cnspchefsocrfpcsocfcguejqsvt
Fgcvfpgcnbckbvgc efjib.cfo.cpgskvb.csocgnbcvsggvbcxbvvqrceqqjcgnfgcrfp
vswbcfc uihqfe.cqecfchqdtcNspcbxbpcfo.cnspcjso.c efyb.ckqecpif btcNb
gqqwcuicnspcnfgcfo.crbogcqug,cgnspcgsjbcrsgnqugc.ebf.cqkcjbbgsoa
foxqob;cnbcnf.ckqeaqggbocnspc.ebf.tcNbcgueob.csocgnbc.seb gsqocqkcgnb
YfppsvxbypwxcQpgeqy,crfvwsoacfvqoacYfppsvxbypwxcIeqpib g,cfpcgnquan
nfpgbosoacqocpqjbchupsobpp,chugcnbcrfvwb.,cfpcnspcnfhsgcrfp,crsgnqug
oqgs soacnspcrfx,cjuggbesoacfo.cbybocpibfwsoacfvqu.cgqcnsjpbvk,cgqcgnb
fpgqospnjbogcqkcgnbcifppbep-hxtcJfoxcqkcgnbjcgqqwcnsjcgqchbc.euowt



 NFIGBEcSY

Nspcjqgnbe’pcvbggbecnf.chbbocfcgqeguebcgqcnsj,chugcfpcebafe.pcgnbc nsbk
kf gcsocsg,cnbcnf.ckbvgcoqgcqobcjqjbog’pcnbpsgfgsqo,cbybocrnsvpgcnbcrfp
ebf.soacgnbcvbggbetcGnbcbppbogsfvclubpgsqocrfpcpbggvb.,cfo.cseebyq fhvx
pbggvb.,csocnspcjso.:c“Obybecpu ncfcjfeesfabcrnsvbcScfjcfvsybcfo.
JetcVuznsochbc.fjob.!”c“Gnbcgnsoacspcibekb gvxc vbfe,”cnbcjuggbeb.
gqcnsjpbvk,crsgncfcjfvsaofogcpjsvbcfogs sifgsoacgnbcgesujincqkcnsp
.b spsqotc“Oq,cjqgnbe,coq,c.quosf,cxqucrqo’gc.b bsybcjb!cfo.cgnbocgnbx
fiqvqaspbckqecoqgcfpwsoacjxcf.ys bcfo.ckqecgfwsoacgnbc.b spsqocrsgnqug
jb!cSc.febcpfx!cGnbxcsjfasobcsgcspcfeefoab.coqrcfo.c fo’gchbcheqwbo
qkk;chugcrbcrsvvcpbbcrnbgnbecsgc focqecoqg!cFcjfaosks bogcbd upb:
‘IxqgecIbgeqysg ncspcpu ncfchupxcjfocgnfgcbybocnspcrb..soacnfpcgqchbcso
iqpg-nfpgb,cfvjqpgchxcbdiebppt’cOq,c.quosf,cScpbbcsgcfvvcfo.cScwoqrcrnfg
xqucrfogcgqcpfxcgqcjb;cfo.cScwoqrcgqqcrnfgcxqucrbebcgnsowsoacfhqug,crnbo
xqucrfvwb.cuicfo.c.qrocfvvcosang,cfo.crnfgcxqueciefxbepcrbebcvswbchbkqeb
gnbcNqvxcJqgnbecqkcWfzfocrnqcpgfo.pcsocjqgnbe’pchb.eqqjtcHsggbecsp
gnbcfp bogcgqcAqvaqgnfttttcNjtttcpqcsgcspcksofvvxcpbggvb.;cxqucnfyb
.bgbejsob.cgqcjfeexcfcpbopshvbchupsobppcjfo,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,cqob
rnqcnfpcfckqeguobc(nfpc_fvebf.x_cjf.bcnspckqeguob,cgnfgcspcpqcju n
jqebcpqvs.cfo.csjiebppsyb),cfcjfocrnqcnqv.pcgrqcaqybeojbogciqpgpcfo.crnq
pnfebpcgnbcs.bfpcqkcquecjqpgcespsoacabobefgsqo,cfpcjqgnbecresgbp,cfo.
rnqc_pbbjp_cgqchbcwso.,cfpc.quosfcnbepbvkcqhpbeybptcGnfgc_pbbjp_chbfgp
bybexgnsoa!cFo.cgnfgcybexc.quosfckqecgnfgcybexc‘_pbbjp_’cspcjfeexsoa
nsj!cPivbo.s.!cpivbo.s.!

“tttcHugcScpnquv.cvswbcgqcwoqrcrnxcjqgnbecnfpcresggbocgqcjbcfhqugc‘que
jqpgcespsoacabobefgsqo’?cPsjivxcfpcfc.bp esigsybcgqu n,cqecrsgncgnbcs.bf
qkciebiqppbppsoacjbcsockfyquecqkcJetcVuznso?cQn,cgnbc uoosoacqkcgnbj!
Scpnquv.cvswbcgqcwoqrcqobcgnsoacjqeb:cnqrckfecgnbxcrbebcqibocrsgncqob
foqgnbecgnfgc.fxcfo.cosangcfo.cfvvcgnspcgsjbcpso b?cRfpcsgcfvvciugcsogq
_rqe.p_,cqec.s.chqgncuo.bepgfo.cgnfgcgnbxcnf.cgnbcpfjbcgnsoacfgcnbfeg
fo.csocgnbsecjso.p,cpqcgnfgcgnbebcrfpcoqcobb.cgqcpibfwcqkcsgcfvqu.,cfo.
hbggbecoqgcgqcpibfwcqkcsgtcJqpgcvswbvxcsgcrfpcifegvxcvswbcgnfg,ckeqj
jqgnbe’pcvbggbecsg’pcbys.bog:cnbcpgeu wcnbecfpceu.bc_fcvsggvb_,cfo.
jqgnbecsocnbecpsjivs sgxcgqqwcnbecqhpbeyfgsqopcgqc.quosftcFo.cpnbcrfp
puebcgqchbcybdb.cfo.c‘foprbeb.cnbecfoaesvxt’cScpnquv.cgnsowcpq!cRnq
rquv.coqgchbcfoabeb.crnbocsgcrfpclusgbc vbfecrsgnqugcfoxcofïybclubpgsqop
fo.crnbocsgcrfpcuo.bepgqq.cgnfgcsgcrfpcupbvbppcgqc.sp uppcsgtcFo.crnx
.qbpcpnbcresgbcgqcjb,c‘vqybc.quosf,cEq.xf,cfo.cpnbcvqybpcxqucjqebcgnfo
nbepbvk’?cNfpcpnbcfcpb ebgc qop sbo b-ies wcfgcpf esks soacnbec.fuangbe
gqcnbecpqo?c‘Xqucfebcquecqobc qjkqeg,cxqucfebcbybexgnsoacgqcupt’cQn,
jqgnbe!”

Nspchsggbeobppcaebrcjqebcfo.cjqebcsogbopb,cfo.cskcnbcnf.cnfiibob.cgq
jbbgcJetcVuznsocfgcgnbcjqjbog,cnbcjsangcnfybcjue.beb.cnsjt

“Njtttcxbp,cgnfg’pcgeub,”cnbc qogsoub.,ciuepusoacgnbcrnsevsoacs.bfpcgnfg
 nfpb.cbf ncqgnbecsocnspchefso,c“sgcspcgeubcgnfgc‘sgcobb.pcgsjbcfo.c feb
gqcabgcgqcwoqrcfcjfo,’chugcgnbebcspcoqcjspgfwbcfhqugcJetcVuznsotcGnb
 nsbkcgnsoacspcnbcspc‘fcjfocqkchupsobppcfo.c_pbbjp_cwso.,’cgnfgcrfp
pqjbgnsoa,crfpo’gcsg,cgqcpbo.cgnbchfapcfo.chsachqdckqecgnbj!cFcwso.cjfo,
oqc.quhgcfkgbecgnfg!cHugcnspc_hes.b_cfo.cnbecjqgnbecfebcgqc.esybcsocf
ibfpfog’pc fegc qybeb.crsgncpf wsoac(Scwoqr,cScnfybchbboc.esybocso
sg)tcOqcjfggbe!cSgcspcqovxcosobgxcybepgpcfo.cgnbocgnbxc foc‘gefybvcybex
 qjkqegfhvx,cgnse.c vfpp,’ckqecfcgnqupfo.cybepgp!cLusgbcesang,cgqqtcQob
jupgc ugcqob’pc qfgcf  qe.soacgqcqob’pc vqgn,chugcrnfgcfhqugcxqu,cJet
Vuznso?cPnbcspcxqueches.bttttcFo.cxqucjupgchbcfrfebcgnfgcnbecjqgnbecnfp
gqcefspbcjqobxcqocnbecibopsqockqecgnbcmqueobxtcGqchbcpuebcsg’pcfcjfggbe
qkchupsobpp,cfcifegobepnsickqecjugufvchbobksg,crsgncblufvcpnfebpcfo.
bdibopbp;--kqq.cfo.c.esowcieqys.b.,chugcifxckqecxquecgqhf  qtcGnb
hupsobppcjfocnfpcaqgcgnbchbggbecqkcgnbj,cgqqtcGnbcvuaafabcrsvvc qpgcvbpp
gnfocgnbseckfebpcfo.cybexcvswbvxcaqckqecoqgnsoatcNqrcspcsgcgnfgcgnbx
.qo’gchqgncpbbcfvvcgnfg,cqecspcsgcgnfgcgnbxc.qo’gcrfogcgqcpbb?cFo.
gnbxcfebcivbfpb.,civbfpb.!cFo.cgqcgnsowcgnfgcgnspcspcqovxcgnbcksepg
hvqppqjsoa,cfo.cgnfgcgnbcebfvckeusgpcfebcgqc qjb!cHugcrnfgcebfvvx
jfggbepcspcoqgcgnbcpgsoasobpp,cspcoqgcgnbcjbfoobpp,chugcgnbc_gqob_
qkcgnbcrnqvbcgnsoatcKqecgnfgcrsvvchbcgnbcgqobcfkgbecjfeesfab,csg’pcf
kqebgfpgbcqkcsgtcFo.cjqgnbecgqq,crnxcpnquv.cpnbchbcpqcvfyspn?cRnfgcrsvv
pnbcnfybchxcgnbcgsjbcpnbcabgpcgqcIbgbephuea?cGnebbcpsvybecequhvbpcqe
grqc‘ifibecqobp’cfpc_pnb_cpfxpttttcgnfgcqv.crqjfotttcnjtcRnfgc.qbp
pnbcbdib gcgqcvsybcuiqocsocIbgbephueacfkgberfe.p?cPnbcnfpcnbecebfpqop
fvebf.xckqecaubppsoacgnfgcpnbc_ quv.coqg_cvsybcrsgnc.quosfcfkgbecgnb
jfeesfab,cbybockqecgnbcksepgckbrcjqognptcGnbcaqq.cjfocnfpcoqc.quhgcvbg
pvsicpqjbgnsoacqocgnfgcpuhmb gcfvpq,cgnquancjqgnbecrquv.c.boxcsg:c‘S
pnfvvcebkupb,’cpfxpcpnbtcQocrnqjcspcpnbceb wqosoacgnbo?cSpcpnbc quogsoa
qocrnfgcspcvbkgcqkcnbecnuo.eb.cfo.cgrbogxcequhvbpcqkcibopsqocrnbo
FkfofpxcSyfoqysg n’pc.bhgcspcifs.?cPnbcwosgpcrqqvvbocpnfrvpcfo.
bjheqs.bepc ukkp,ceusosoacnbecqv.cbxbptcFo.cfvvcnbecpnfrvpc.qo’gcf..
jqebcgnfocgrbogxcequhvbpcfcxbfecgqcnbecnuo.eb.cfo.cgrbogx,cScwoqr
gnfgtcPqcpnbcspchusv.soacfvvcnbecnqibpcfvvcgnbcgsjbcqocJetcVuznso’p
abobeqpsgx;c‘nbcrsvvcqkkbecsgcqkcnsjpbvk,cnbcrsvvciebppcsgcqocjbt’
Xqucjfxcrfsgcfcvqoacgsjbckqecgnfg!cGnfg’pcnqrcsgcfvrfxpcspcrsgncgnbpb
P nsvvbebplubcoqhvbcnbfegp;cgsvvcgnbcvfpgcjqjbogcbybexcaqqpbcspcfcprfo
rsgncgnbj,cgsvvcgnbcvfpgcjqjbog,cgnbxcnqibckqecgnbchbpgcfo.crsvvcpbb
oqgnsoacreqoa,cfo.cfvgnquancgnbxcnfybcfocsowvsoacqkcgnbcqgnbecps.bcqk
gnbcis gueb,cxbgcgnbxcrqo’gckf bcgnbcgeugncgsvvcgnbxcfebckqe b.cgq;cgnb
ybexcgnquangcqkcsgcjfwbpcgnbjcpnsybe;cgnbxcgneupgcgnbcgeugncfrfxcrsgn
hqgncnfo.p,cuogsvcgnbcjfocgnbxc.b wcqugcsockfvpbc qvquepciugpcfckqqv’p
 ficqocgnbjcrsgncnspcqrocnfo.ptcScpnquv.cvswbcgqcwoqrcrnbgnbecJetcVuznso
nfpcfoxcqe.bepcqkcjbesg;cSchbgcnbcnfpcgnbcFoofcsocnspchuggqonqvbcfo.
gnfgcnbciugpcsgcqocrnbocnbcaqbpcgqc.sobcrsgnc qogef gqepcqecjbe nfogpt
Nbcrsvvchbcpuebcgqcnfybcsgckqecnspcrb..soa,cgqq!cBoquancqkcnsj,c qokquo.
nsj!

“Rbvv,tttcjqgnbecSc.qo’gcrqo.becfg,csg’pcvswbcnbe,cAq.chvbppcnbe,chug
nqrc quv.c.quosf?c.quosfc.fevsoa,cfpcgnquancSc.s.coqgcwoqrcxqu!cXqucrbeb
obfevxcgrbogxcrnbocScpfrcxqucvfpg:cScuo.bepgqq.cxqucgnbotcJqgnbecresgbp
gnfgc‘.quosfc fociugcuicrsgncfcaebfgc.bfvt’cScwoqrcgnfgcybexcrbvvtcS
wobrcgnfgcgrqcxbfepcfo.cfcnfvkcfaq,cfo.ckqecgnbcvfpgcgrqcfo.cfcnfvk
xbfepcScnfybchbbocgnsowsoacfhqugcsg,cgnsowsoacqkcmupgcgnfg,cgnfgc‘.quosf
 fociugcuicrsgncfcaebfgc.bfvt’cSkcpnbc quv.ciugcuicrsgncJetcPys.esafïvqy
fo.cfvvcgnbcebpgcqkcsg,cpnbc begfsovxc fociugcuicrsgncfcaebfgc.bfvtcFo.
oqrcjqgnbecfo.cpnbcnfybcgfwbocsgcsogqcgnbsecnbf.pcgnfgcpnbc fociugcui
rsgncJetcVuznso,crnqcieqiquo.pcgnbcgnbqexcqkcgnbcpuibesqesgxcqk
rsybpcefspb.ckeqjc.bpgsgugsqocfo.cqrsoacbybexgnsoacgqcgnbsecnuphfo.’p
hquogx--rnqcieqiquo.pcsg,cgqq,cfvjqpgcfgcgnbcksepgcsogbeysbrtcAefogb.
gnfgcnbc‘vbgcsgcpvsi,’cgnquancnbcspcfcpbopshvbcjfo,c(xbgcjfxhbcsg
rfpcoqgcfcpvsicfgcfvv,chugcnbcjbfogcgqcjfwbcnsjpbvkc vbfecfpcpqqocfp
iqppshvb)chugc.quosf,c.quosf?cPnbcuo.bepgfo.pcgnbcjfo,cqkc quepb,chug
pnbcrsvvcnfybcgqcvsybcrsgncgnbcjfotcRnx!cpnb’.cvsybcqochvf wchebf.
fo.crfgbe,cpnbcrquv.coqgcpbvvcnbecpquv,cpnbcrquv.coqgchfegbecnbecjqefv
kebb.qjckqec qjkqeg;cpnbcrquv.coqgchfegbecsgckqecfvvcP nvbprsa-Nqvpgbso,
ju ncvbppcJetcVuznso’pcjqobxtcOq,c.quosfcrfpcoqgcgnfgcpqegcrnbocScwobr
nbecfo.tttcpnbcspcpgsvvcgnbcpfjb,cqkc quepb!cXbp,cgnbeb’pcoqc.boxsoa,
gnbcPys.esafïvqypcfebcfchsggbecisvv!cSg’pcfchsggbecgnsoacgqcpibo.cqob’p
vskbcfcaqybeobppcsocgnbcieqyso bpckqecgrqcnuo.eb.cequhvbp,chugcScwoqr
pnbcrquv.cefgnbechbcfcosaabecqocfcivfogfgsqocqecfcVbggcrsgncfcAbejfo
jfpgbecgnfoc.baef.bcnbecpquv,cfo.cnbecjqefvc.saosgx,chxchso.soacnbepbvk
kqecbybecgqcfcjfocrnqjcpnbc.qbpcoqgcebpib gcfo.crsgncrnqjcpnbcnfp
oqgnsoacsoc qjjqo--kqecnbecqrocf.yfogfabtcFo.cskcJetcVuznsocnf.chbbocqk
uofvvqxb.caqv.,cqecqobcnuabc.sfjqo.,cpnbcrquv.cobybecnfybc qopbogb.cgq
hb qjbcnspcvbafvc qo uhsobtcRnxcspcpnbc qopbogsoacgnbo?cRnfg’pcgnb
iqsogcqkcsg?cRnfg’pcgnbcfoprbe?cSg’pc vbfecboquan:ckqecnbepbvk,ckqecnbe
 qjkqeg,cgqcpfybcnbecvskbcpnbcrquv.coqgcpbvvcnbepbvk,chugckqecpqjbqob
bvpbcpnbcspc.qsoacsg!cKqecqobcpnbcvqybp,ckqecqobcpnbcf.qebp,cpnbcrsvv
pbvvcnbepbvk!cGnfg’pcrnfgcsgcfvvcfjquogpcgq;ckqecnbecheqgnbe,ckqecnbe
jqgnbe,cpnbcrsvvcpbvvcnbepbvk!cPnbcrsvvcpbvvcbybexgnsoa!cSocpu nc fpbp,
‘rbcqybe qjbcquecjqefvckbbvsoacskcob bppfex,’ckebb.qj,cibf b,c qop sbo b
bybo,cfvv,cfvvcfebchequangcsogqcgnbcjfewbgtcVbgcjxcvskbcaq,cskcqovxcjx
.bfecqobpcjfxchbcnfiix!cJqebcgnfocgnfg,crbchb qjbc fpuspgp,crbcvbfeo
gqchbcMbpusgs fvcfo.ckqecfcgsjbcjfxhbcrbc focpqqgnbcquepbvybp,crbc fo
ibepuf.bcquepbvybpcgnfgcsgcspcqob’pc.ugxckqecfcaqq.cqhmb gtcGnfg’pcmupg
vswbcup,csg’pcfpc vbfecfpc.fxvsangtcSg’pc vbfecgnfgcEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n
Efpwqvoswqycspcgnbc bogefvcksauebcsocgnbchupsobpp,cfo.coqcqobcbvpbtcQn,
xbp,cpnbc focbopuebcnspcnfiisobpp,cwbbicnsjcsocgnbcuosybepsgx,cjfwbcnsj
fcifegobecsocgnbcqkks b,cjfwbcnspcrnqvbckuguebcpb ueb;cibenfipcnbcjfx
bybochbcfces ncjfocvfgbecqo,cieqpibequp,cebpib gb.,cfo.cjfxcbybocbo.cnsp
vskbcfckfjqupcjfo!cHugcjxcjqgnbe?cSg’pcfvvcEq.xf,cieb squpcEq.xf,cnbe
ksepgchqeo!cKqecpu ncfcpqocrnqcrquv.coqgcpf esks bcpu ncfc.fuangbe!cQn,
vqysoa,cqybe-ifegsfvcnbfegp!cRnx,ckqecnspcpfwbcrbcrquv.coqgcpnesowcbybo
keqjcPqosf’pckfgbtcPqosf,cPqosfcJfejbvf.qy,cgnbcbgbeofvcys gsjcpqcvqoa
fpcgnbcrqev.cvfpgptcNfybcxqucgfwbocgnbcjbfpuebcqkcxquecpf esks b,chqgn
qkcxqu?cSpcsgcesang?c focxquchbfecsg?cSpcsgcfoxcupb?cSpcgnbebcpbopbcso
sg?cFo.cvbgcjbcgbvvcxqu,c.quosf,cPqosf’pcvskbcspcoqcrqepbcgnfocvskbcrsgn
JetcVuznsotc‘Gnbebc fochbcoqclubpgsqocqkcvqyb,’cjqgnbecresgbptcFo.crnfg
skcgnbebc fochbcoqcebpib gcbsgnbe,cskcqocgnbc qogefexcgnbebcspcfybepsqo,
 qogbjig,cebiuvpsqo,crnfgcgnbo?cPqcxqucrsvvcnfybcgqc‘wbbicuicxque
fiibfefo b,’cgqqtcSpcoqgcgnfgcpq?c.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.crnfgcgnfgcpjfegobpp
jbfop?c.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.cgnfgcgnbcVuznsocpjfegobppcspcmupgcgnbcpfjb
gnsoacfpcPqosf’pcfo.cjfxchbcrqepb,cysvbe,chfpbe,chb fupbcsocxquec fpb,
.quosf,csg’pcfchfeafsockqecvuduesbp,cfkgbecfvv,chugcrsgncPqosfcsg’p
psjivxcfclubpgsqocqkcpgfeyfgsqotcSgcnfpcgqchbcifs.ckqe,csgcnfpcgqchb
ifs.ckqe,c.quosf,cgnspcpjfegobpptcFo.crnfgcskcsg’pcjqebcgnfocxquc fo
hbfecfkgberfe.p,cskcxqucebaebgcsg?cGnbchsggbeobpp,cgnbcjspbex,cgnb
 uepbp,cgnbcgbfepcns..bockeqjcfvvcgnbcrqev.,ckqecxqucfebcoqgcfcJfekf
IbgeqyoftcFo.cnqrcrsvvcxquecjqgnbeckbbvcgnbo?cBybocoqrcpnbcspcuobfpx,
pnbcspcrqeesb.,chugcgnbo,crnbocpnbcpbbpcsgcfvvc vbfevx?cFo.cS?cXbp,
so.bb.,crnfgcnfybcxqucgfwbocjbckqe?cScrqo’gcnfybcxquecpf esks b,c.quosf,
Scrqo’gcnfybcsg,cjqgnbe!cSgcpnfvvcoqgchb,cpqcvqoacfpcScfjcfvsyb,csg
pnfvvcoqg,csgcpnfvvcoqg!cScrqo’gcf  bigcsg!”

Nbcpu..bovxcifupb.csocnspcebkvb gsqocfo.cpgqq.cpgsvvt

“Sgcpnfvvcoqgchb?cHugcrnfgcfebcxqucaqsoacgqc.qcgqciebybogcsg?cXqu’vv
kqehs.csg?cFo.crnfgcesangcnfybcxqu?cRnfgc focxqucieqjspbcgnbjcqocxque
ps.bcgqcasybcxqucpu ncfcesang?cXquecrnqvbcvskb,cxquecrnqvbckugueb,cxqu
rsvvc.byqgbcgqcgnbjc_rnbocxqucnfybcksospnb.cxquecpgu.sbpcfo.cqhgfsob.cf
iqpg_?cXbp,crbcnfybcnbfe.cfvvcgnfgchbkqeb,cfo.cgnfg’pcfvvc_rqe.p_,chug
oqr?cOqrcpqjbgnsoacjupgchbc.qob,coqr,c.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.cgnfg?cFo.
rnfgcfebcxquc.qsoacoqr?cXqucfebcvsysoacuiqocgnbjtcGnbxchqeeqrcqocgnbse
nuo.eb.cequhvbpcibopsqotcGnbxchqeeqrckeqjcgnbcPys.esafïvqyptcNqrcfeb
xqucaqsoacgqcpfybcgnbjckeqjcPys.esafïvqyp,ckeqjcFkfofpxcSyfoqysg n
Yfneupnso,cqn,ckuguebcjsvvsqofsebcZbupcrnqcrquv.cfeefoabcgnbsecvsybpckqe
gnbj?cSocfoqgnbecgbocxbfep?cSocfoqgnbecgbocxbfep,cjqgnbecrsvvchbchvso.
rsgncwosggsoacpnfrvp,cjfxhbcrsgncrbbisoacgqqtcPnbcrsvvchbcrqeocgqcf
pnf.qrcrsgnckfpgsoa;cfo.cjxcpspgbe?cSjfasobckqecfcjqjbogcrnfgcjfxcnfyb
hb qjbcqkcxquecpspgbecsocgbocxbfep?cRnfgcjfxcnfiibocgqcnbec.uesoacgnqpb
gbocxbfep?c focxquckfo x?”

Pqcnbcgqegueb.cnsjpbvk,ckebggsoacnsjpbvkcrsgncpu nclubpgsqop,cfo.
kso.soacfcwso.cqkcbomqxjbogcsocsgtcFo.cxbgcfvvcgnbpbclubpgsqopcrbebcoqg
obrcqobpcpu..bovxc qokeqogsoacnsj,cgnbxcrbebcqv.ckfjsvsfecf nbptcSgcrfp
vqoacpso bcgnbxcnf.cksepgchbauocgqcaesicfo.cebo.cnspcnbfegtcVqoa,cvqoa
faqcnspciebpbogcfoauspncnf.csgpcksepgchbasoosoap;csgcnf.crfdb.cfo.
afgnbeb.cpgeboagn,csgcnf.cjfgueb.cfo.c qo bogefgb.,cuogsvcsgcnf.cgfwbo
gnbckqejcqkcfckbfekuv,ckebozsb.cfo.ckfogfpgs clubpgsqo,crns ncgqegueb.
nspcnbfegcfo.cjso.,c vfjquesoacsopspgbogvxckqecfocfoprbetcOqrcnsp
jqgnbe’pcvbggbecnf.chuepgcqocnsjcvswbcfcgnuo.be vfitcSgcrfpc vbfe
gnfgcnbcjupgcoqgcoqrcpukkbecifppsybvx,crqeexsoacnsjpbvkcqybecuopqvyb.
lubpgsqop,chugcgnfgcnbcjupgc.qcpqjbgnsoa,c.qcsgcfgcqo b,cfo.c.qcsg
lus wvxtcFoxrfxcnbcjupgc.b s.bcqocpqjbgnsoa,cqecbvpbttt

“Qecgneqrcuicvskbcfvgqabgnbe!”cnbc esb.cpu..bovx,csocfckebozx--“f  big
qob’pcvqgcnujhvxcfpcsgcsp,cqo bckqecfvvcfo.cpgskvbcbybexgnsoacso
qobpbvk,casysoacuicfvvc vfsjcgqcf gsysgx,cvskbcfo.cvqyb!”

“.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.,cpse,c.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.crnfgcsgcjbfopcrnbocxqucnfyb
fhpqvugbvxcoqrnbebcgqcgueo?”cJfejbvf.qy’pclubpgsqoc fjbcpu..bovxcsogq
nspcjso.,c“kqecbybexcjfocjupgcnfybcpqjbrnbebcgqcgueotttt”

Nbcafybcfcpu..bocpgfeg;cfoqgnbecgnquang,cgnfgcnbcnf.cnf.cxbpgbe.fx,
pvsiib.chf wcsogqcnspcjso.tcHugcnbc.s.coqgcpgfegcfgcgnbcgnquang
eb ueesoacgqcnsj,ckqecnbcwobr,cnbcnf.c_kbvgchbkqebnfo._,cgnfgcsgcjupg
 qjbchf w,cnbcrfpcbdib gsoacsg;chbps.bpcsgcrfpcoqgcqovxcxbpgbe.fx’p
gnquangtcGnbc.skkbebo bcrfpcgnfgcfcjqogncfaq,cxbpgbe.fxcbybo,cgnb
gnquangcrfpcfcjbebc.ebfj:chugcoqrtttcoqrcsgcfiibfeb.coqgcfc.ebfjcfgcfvv,
sgcnf.cgfwbocfcobrcjbof soacfo.clusgbcuokfjsvsfecpnfib,cfo.cnbcpu..bovx
hb fjbcfrfebcqkcgnspcnsjpbvkttttcNbckbvgcfcnfjjbesoacsocnspcnbf.,cfo.
gnbebcrfpcfc.fewobppchbkqebcnspcbxbpt

Nbcvqqwb.cequo.cnueesb.vx,cnbcrfpcpbfe nsoackqecpqjbgnsoatcNbcrfogb.
gqcpsgc.qrocfo.crfpcvqqwsoackqecfcpbfg;cnbcrfpcrfvwsoacfvqoacgnbcW----
Hquvbyfe.tcGnbebcrfpcfcpbfgcfhqugcfcnuo.eb.cif bpcsockeqogcqkcnsjtcNb
rfvwb.cgqrfe.pcsgcfpckfpgcnbc quv.;chugcqocgnbcrfxcnbcjbgcrsgncfcvsggvb
f.yboguebcrns ncfhpqehb.cfvvcnspcfggbogsqotcVqqwsoackqecgnbcpbfg,cnbcnf.
oqgs b.cfcrqjfocrfvwsoacpqjbcgrbogxcif bpcsockeqogcqkcnsj,chugcfgcksepg
nbcgqqwcoqcjqebcoqgs bcqkcnbecgnfocqkcqgnbecqhmb gpcgnfgc eqppb.cnsp
ifgntcSgcnf.cnfiibob.cgqcnsjcjfoxcgsjbpcaqsoacnqjbcoqgcgqcoqgs bcgnb
eqf.chxcrns ncnbcrfpcaqsoa,cfo.cnbcrfpcf  upgqjb.cgqcrfvwcvswbcgnfgtcHug
gnbebcrfpcfgcksepgcpsangcpqjbgnsoacpqcpgefoabcfhqugcgnbcrqjfocsockeqog
qkcnsj,cgnfgcaef.ufvvxcnspcfggbogsqocrfpcesybgb.cuiqocnbe,cfgcksepg
ebvu gfogvxcfo.,cfpcsgcrbeb,cebpbogkuvvx,cfo.cgnbocjqebcfo.cjqeb
sogbogvxtcNbckbvgcfcpu..boc.bpsebcgqckso.cqugcrnfgcsgcrfpcgnfgcrfpcpq
pgefoabcfhqugcgnbcrqjfotcSocgnbcksepgcivf b,cpnbcfiibfeb.cgqchbcfcasev
lusgbcxquoa,cfo.cpnbcrfpcrfvwsoacsocgnbcaebfgcnbfgchfebnbf.b.cfo.crsgn
oqcifefpqvcqecavqybp,crfysoacnbecfejpcfhqugcsocfocfhpue.crfxtcPnbcnf.
qocfc.ebppcqkcpqjbcvsangcpsvwxcjfgbesfv,chugciugcqocpgefoabvxcfrex,coqg
ieqibevxcnqqwb.cui,cfo.cgqeocqibocfgcgnbcgqicqkcgnbcpwseg,c vqpbcgqcgnb
rfspg:cfcaebfgcisb bcrfpcebogcfo.cnfoasoacvqqpbtcFcvsggvbcwbe nsbkcrfp
kvuoacfhqugcnbechfebcgneqfg,chugcvfxcpvfogsoacqocqobcps.btcGnbcasevcrfp
rfvwsoacuopgbf.svx,cgqq,cpgujhvsoacfo.cpgfaabesoackeqjcps.bcgqcps.btcPnb
.ebrcEfpwqvoswqy’pcrnqvbcfggbogsqocfgcvfpgtcNbcqybegqqwcgnbcasevcfgcgnb
pbfg,chug,cqocebf nsoacsg,cpnbc.eqiib.c.qrocqocsg,csocgnbc qeobe;
pnbcvbgcnbecnbf.cpsowcqocgnbchf wcqkcgnbcpbfgcfo.c vqpb.cnbecbxbp,
fiifebogvxcsocbdgebjbcbdnfupgsqotcVqqwsoacfgcnbec vqpbvx,cnbcpfrcfgcqo b
gnfgcpnbcrfpc qjivbgbvxc.euowtcSgcrfpcfcpgefoabcfo.cpnq wsoacpsangtcNb
 quv.cnfe.vxchbvsbybcgnfgcnbcrfpcoqgcjspgfwbotcNbcpfrchbkqebcnsjcgnb
kf bcqkcfclusgbcxquoa,ckfse-nfseb.casev--psdgbbo,cibenfipcoqgcjqebcgnfo
kskgbbo,cxbfepcqv.,ciebggxcvsggvbckf b,chugckvupnb.cfo.cnbfyxcvqqwsoa
fo.,cfpcsgcrbeb,cprqvvbotcGnbcasevcpbbjb.cnfe.vxcgqcwoqrcrnfgcpnbcrfp
.qsoa;cpnbc eqppb.cqobcvbacqybecgnbcqgnbe,cvskgsoacsgcso.b qequpvx,cfo.
pnqrb.cbybexcpsaocqkchbsoacuo qop squpcgnfgcpnbcrfpcsocgnbcpgebbgt

Efpwqvoswqyc.s.coqgcpsgc.qro,chugcnbckbvgcuorsvvsoacgqcvbfybcnbe,
fo.cpgqq.ckf soacnbecsocibeivbdsgxtcGnspchquvbyfe.crfpcobybecju n
keblubogb.;cfo.coqr,cfgcgrqcq’ vq w,csocgnbcpgskvsoacnbfg,csgcrfpclusgb
.bpbegb.tcFo.cxbgcqocgnbckuegnbecps.bcqkcgnbchquvbyfe.,cfhqugckskgbbo
if bpcfrfx,cfcabogvbjfocrfpcpgfo.soacqocgnbcb.abcqkcgnbcifybjbogtcNb,
gqq,crquv.cfiifebogvxcnfybcvswb.cgqcfiieqf ncgnbcasevcrsgncpqjbcqhmb g
qkcnspcqrotcNb,cgqq,cnf.cieqhfhvxcpbbocnbecsocgnbc.spgfo bcfo.cnf.
kqvvqrb.cnbe,chugckquo.cEfpwqvoswqycsocnspcrfxtcNbcvqqwb.cfoaesvxcfg
nsj,cgnquancnbcgesb.cgqcbp fibcnspcoqgs b,cfo.cpgqq.csjifgsbogvxchs.soa
nspcgsjb,cgsvvcgnbcuorbv qjbcjfocsocefapcpnquv.cnfybcjqyb.cfrfxtcNsp
sogbogsqopcrbebcuojspgfwfhvbtcGnbcabogvbjfocrfpcfcivuji,cgns wvx-pbg
jfo,cfhqugcgnsegx,ckfpnsqofhvxc.ebppb.,crsgncfcnsanc qvque,ceb.cvsipcfo.
jqupgf nbptcEfpwqvoswqyckbvgckuesqup;cnbcnf.cfcpu..bocvqoasoacgqcsopuvg
gnspckfgc.fo.xcsocpqjbcrfxtcNbcvbkgcgnbcasevckqecfcjqjbogcfo.crfvwb.
gqrfe.pcgnbcabogvbjfot

“Nbx!cXqucPys.esafïvqy!cRnfgc.qcxqucrfogcnbeb?”cnbcpnqugb.,c vbo nsoa
nspckspgpcfo.cvfuansoa,cpivuggbesoacrsgncefabt

“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfo?”cgnbcabogvbjfocfpwb.cpgbeovx,cp qrvsoacsocnfuangx
fpgqospnjbogt

“Abgcfrfx,cgnfg’pcrnfgcScjbfot”

“Nqrc.febcxqu,cxqucvqrckbvvqr!”

Nbcefspb.cnspc fobtcEfpwqvoswqyceupnb.cfgcnsjcrsgncnspckspgp,crsgnqug
ebkvb gsoacgnfgcgnbcpgqugcabogvbjfocrfpcfcjfg nckqecgrqcjbocvswb
nsjpbvktcHugcfgcgnfgcsopgfogcpqjbqobcpbszb.cnsjckeqjchbnso.,cfo.cf
iqvs bc qopgfhvbcpgqq.chbgrbbocgnbjt

“Gnfg’pcboquan,cabogvbjbo,coqcksangsoa,civbfpb,csocfciuhvs civf btcRnfg
.qcxqucrfog?cRnqcfebcxqu?”cnbcfpwb.cEfpwqvoswqycpgbeovx,coqgs soacnsp
efapt

Efpwqvoswqycvqqwb.cfgcnsjcsogbogvxtcNbcnf.cfcpgefsang-kqerfe.,cpbopshvb,
pqv.sbevxckf b,crsgncaebxcjqupgf nbpcfo.crnspwbept

“XqucfebcmupgcgnbcjfocScrfog,”cEfpwqvoswqyc esb.,c fg nsoacfgcnspcfejt
“Scfjcfcpgu.bog,cEfpwqvoswqyttttcXqucjfxcfpcrbvvcwoqrcgnfgcgqq,”cnb
f..b.,cf..ebppsoacgnbcabogvbjfo,c“ qjbcfvqoa,cScnfybcpqjbgnsoacgqcpnqr
xqut”

Fo.cgfwsoacgnbciqvs bjfochxcgnbcnfo.cnbc.ebrcnsjcgqrfe.pcgnbcpbfgt

“Vqqwcnbeb,cnqibvbppvxc.euow,cfo.cpnbcnfpcmupgc qjbc.qrocgnbchquvbyfe.t
Gnbebcspcoqcgbvvsoacrnqcfo.crnfgcpnbcsp,cpnbc.qbpcoqgcvqqwcvswbcf
ieqkbppsqofvtcSg’pcjqebcvswbvxcpnbcnfpchbbocasyboc.esowcfo.c.b bsyb.
pqjbrnbebtttckqecgnbcksepgcgsjbtttcxqucuo.bepgfo.?cfo.cgnbx’ybciugcnbe
qugcsogqcgnbcpgebbgcvswbcgnfgtcVqqwcfgcgnbcrfxcnbec.ebppcspcgqeo,cfo.
gnbcrfxcsgcnfpchbbociugcqo:cpnbcnfpchbboc.ebppb.chxcpqjbhq.x,cpnbcnfp
oqgc.ebppb.cnbepbvk,cfo.c.ebppb.chxcuoief gspb.cnfo.p,chxcfcjfo’pcnfo.p;
gnfg’pcbys.bogtcFo.coqrcvqqwcgnbeb:cSc.qo’gcwoqrcgnfgc.fo.xcrsgncrnqjcS
rfpcaqsoacgqcksang,cScpbbcnsjckqecgnbcksepgcgsjb,chugcnb,cgqq,cnfpcpbbo
nbecqocgnbceqf.,cmupgcoqr,c.euow,coqgcwoqrsoacrnfgcpnbcspc.qsoa,cfo.coqr
nbcspcybexcbfabecgqcabgcnqv.cqkcnbe,cgqcabgcnbecfrfxcpqjbrnbebcrnsvbcpnb
spcsocgnspcpgfgbtttcgnfg’pc begfso,chbvsbybcjb,cScfjcoqgcreqoatcScpfr
nsjcjxpbvkcrfg nsoacnbecfo.ckqvvqrsoacnbe,chugcSciebybogb.cnsj,cfo.cnb
spcmupgcrfsgsoackqecjbcgqcaqcfrfxtcOqrcnbcnfpcrfvwb.cfrfxcfcvsggvb,cfo.
spcpgfo.soacpgsvv,ciebgbo.soacgqcjfwbcfc safebggbttttcGnsowcnqrc focrb
wbbicnbecqugcqkcnspcnfo.p,cfo.cnqrcfebcrbcgqcabgcnbecnqjb?”

Gnbciqvs bjfocpfrcsgcfvvcsocfckvfpntcGnbcpgqugcabogvbjfocrfpcbfpxcgq
uo.bepgfo.,cnbcgueob.cgqc qops.becgnbcasevtcGnbciqvs bjfochbogcqybecgq
bdfjsobcnbecjqebc vqpbvx,cfo.cnspckf bcrqewb.crsgncabousobc qjifppsqot

“Fn,crnfgcfcisgx!”cnbcpfs.,cpnfwsoacnspcnbf.--“rnx,cpnbcspclusgbcf
 nsv.!cPnbcnfpchbboc.b bsyb.,cxquc focpbbcgnfgcfgcqo btcVspgbo,cvf.x,”
cnbchbafocf..ebppsoacnbe,c“rnbebc.qcxqucvsyb?”cGnbcasevcqibob.cnbecrbfex
fo.cpvbbix-vqqwsoacbxbp,cafzb.chvfowvxcfgcgnbcpibfwbecfo.crfyb.cnbe
nfo.t

“Nbeb,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqyckbbvsoacsocnspciq wbgcfo.ckso.soacgrbogx
 qib wp,c“nbeb,c fvvcfc fhcfo.cgbvvcnsjcgqc.esybcnbecgqcnbecf..ebpptcGnb
qovxcgnsoacspcgqckso.cqugcnbecf..ebpp!”

“Jsppx,cjsppx!”cgnbciqvs bjfochbafocfafso,cgfwsoacgnbcjqobxtc“S’vvckbg n
xqucfc fhcfo.cgfwbcxqucnqjbcjxpbvktcRnbebcpnfvvcScgfwbcxqu,cbn?cRnbebc.q
xqucvsyb?”

“Aqcfrfx!cGnbxcrqo’gcvbgcjbcfvqob,”cgnbcasevcjuggbeb.,cfo.cqo bcjqeb
rfyb.cnbecnfo.t

“F n,cf n,cnqrcpnq wsoa!cSg’pcpnfjbkuv,cjsppx,csg’pcfcpnfjb!”cNbcpnqqw
nspcnbf.cfafso,cpnq wb.,cpxjifgnbgs cfo.cso.saofogt

“Sg’pcfc.skks uvgcmqh,”cgnbciqvs bjfocpfs.cgqcEfpwqvoswqy,cfo.cfpcnb
.s.cpq,cnbcvqqwb.cnsjcuicfo.c.qrocsocfcefis.cavfo btcNb,cgqq,cjupgcnfyb
pbbjb.cfcpgefoabcksauebcgqcnsj:c.ebppb.csocefapcfo.cnfo.soacnsjcjqobx!

“.s.cxqucjbbgcnbeckfeckeqjcnbeb?”cnbcfpwb.cnsjt

“Scgbvvcxqucpnbcrfpcrfvwsoacsockeqogcqkcjb,cpgfaabesoa,cmupgcnbeb,cso
gnbchquvbyfe.tcPnbcqovxcmupgcebf nb.cgnbcpbfgcfo.cpfowc.qrocqocsgt”

“Fn,cgnbcpnfjbkuvcgnsoapcgnfgcfebc.qobcsocgnbcrqev.coqrf.fxp,cAq.cnfyb
jbe xcqocup!cFocsooq bogc ebfguebcvswbcgnfg,c.euowcfvebf.x!cPnbcnfpchbbo
.b bsyb.,cgnfg’pcfcpuebcgnsoatcPbbcnqrcnbec.ebppcnfpchbbocgqeocgqqtttt
Fn,cgnbcys bcqobcpbbpcoqrf.fxp!cFo.cfpcvswbvxcfpcoqgcpnbchbvqoapcgq
abogvbkqvwcgqq,ciqqecqobpcjfxhbttttcGnbebcfebcjfoxcvswbcgnfgcoqrf.fxpt
Pnbcvqqwpcebksob.,cgqq,cfpcgnquancpnbcrbebcfcvf.x,”cfo.cnbchbogcqybecnbe
qo bcjqebt

Ibenfipcnbcnf.c.fuangbepcaeqrsoacuicvswbcgnfg,c“vqqwsoacvswbcvf.sbpcfo.
ebksob.”crsgnciebgbopsqopcgqcabogsvsgxcfo.cpjfegobpptttt

“Gnbc nsbkcgnsoacsp,”cEfpwqvoswqycibepspgb.,c“gqcwbbicnbecqugcqkcgnsp
p quo.ebv’pcnfo.p!cRnxcpnquv.cnbcqugefabcnbe!cSg’pcfpc vbfecfpc.fxcrnfg
nbcspcfkgbe;cfn,cgnbcheugb,cnbcspcoqgcjqysoacqkk!”

Efpwqvoswqycpiqwbcfvqu.cfo.ciqsogb.cgqcnsjtcGnbcabogvbjfocnbfe.cnsj,
fo.cpbbjb.cfhqugcgqckvxcsogqcfcefabcfafso,chugcgnquangchbggbecqkcsg,cfo.
 qoksob.cnsjpbvkcgqcfc qogbjiguqupcvqqwtcNbcgnbocrfvwb.cpvqrvxcfoqgnbe
gbocif bpcfrfxcfo.cfafsocnfvgb.t

“Wbbicnbecqugcqkcnspcnfo.pcrbc fo,”cpfs.cgnbc qopgfhvbcgnquangkuvvx,
“skcqovxcpnb’.cgbvvcupcrnbebcgqcgfwbcnbe,chugcfpcsgcspttttcJsppx,cnbx,
jsppx!”cnbchbogcqybecnbecqo bcjqebt

Pnbcqibob.cnbecbxbpckuvvxcfvvcqkcfcpu..bo,cvqqwb.cfgcnsjcsogbogvx,cfp
gnquancebfvspsoacpqjbgnsoa,caqgcuickeqjcgnbcpbfgcfo.crfvwb.cfrfxcsocgnb
.seb gsqockeqjcrns ncpnbcnf.c qjbtc“Qncpnfjbkuvcrebg nbp,cgnbxcrqo’gcvbg
jbcfvqob!”cpnbcpfs.,crfysoacnbecnfo.cfafsotcPnbcrfvwb.clus wvx,cgnquan
pgfaabesoacfpchbkqebtcGnbc.fo.xckqvvqrb.cnbe,chugcfvqoacfoqgnbecfyboub,
wbbisoacnspcbxbcqocnbet

“.qo’gchbcfodsqup,cScrqo’gcvbgcnsjcnfybcnbe,”cgnbciqvs bjfocpfs.
ebpqvugbvx,cfo.cnbcpbgcqkkcfkgbecgnbjt

“Fn,cgnbcys bcqobcpbbpcoqrf.fxp!”cnbcebibfgb.cfvqu.,cpsansoat

Fgcgnfgcjqjbogcpqjbgnsoacpbbjb.cgqcpgsoacEfpwqvoswqy;csocfocsopgfogcf
 qjivbgbcebyuvpsqocqkckbbvsoac fjbcqybecnsjt

“Nbx,cnbeb!”cnbcpnqugb.cfkgbecgnbciqvs bjfot

Gnbcvfggbecgueob.cequo.t

“Vbgcgnbjchb!cRnfgcspcsgcgqc.qcrsgncxqu?cVbgcnbecaq!cVbgcnsjcfjupb
nsjpbvkt”cNbciqsogb.cfgcgnbc.fo.x,c“Rnfgcspcsgcgqc.qcrsgncxqu?”

Gnbciqvs bjfocrfpchbrsv.beb.,cfo.cpgfeb.cfgcnsjcqibo-bxb.tcEfpwqvoswqy
vfuanb.t

“Rbvv!”cbmf uvfgb.cgnbciqvs bjfo,crsgncfcabpguebcqkc qogbjig,cfo.cnb
rfvwb.cfkgbecgnbc.fo.xcfo.cgnbcasev,cieqhfhvxcgfwsoacEfpwqvoswqyckqecf
jf.jfocqecpqjbgnsoacbybocrqepbt

“Nbcnfpc feesb.cqkkcjxcgrbogxc qib wp,”cEfpwqvoswqycjuejueb.cfoaesvx
rnbocnbcrfpcvbkgcfvqobtc“Rbvv,cvbgcnsjcgfwbcfpcju nckeqjcgnbcqgnbe
kbvvqrcgqcfvvqrcnsjcgqcnfybcgnbcasevcfo.cpqcvbgcsgcbo.tcFo.crnxc.s.cS
rfogcgqcsogbekbeb?cSpcsgckqecjbcgqcnbvi?cNfybcScfoxcesangcgqcnbvi?cVbg
gnbjc.byquecbf ncqgnbecfvsyb--rnfgcspcsgcgqcjb?cNqrc.s.cSc.febcgqcasybcnsj
grbogxc qib wp?cRbebcgnbxcjsob?”

Socpisgbcqkcgnqpbcpgefoabcrqe.pcnbckbvgcybexcrebg nb.tcNbcpfgc.qrocqo
gnbc.bpbegb.cpbfgtcNspcgnquangpcpgefxb.cfsjvbppvxttttcNbckquo.csgcnfe.
gqcksdcnspcjso.cqocfoxgnsoacfgcgnfgcjqjbogtcNbcvqoab.cgqckqeabgcnsjpbvk
fvgqabgnbe,cgqckqeabgcbybexgnsoa,cfo.cgnbocgqcrfwbcuicfo.chbasocvskb
fobrtttt

“Iqqecasev!”cnbcpfs.,cvqqwsoacfgcgnbcbjigxc qeobecrnbebcpnbcnf.
pfg--“Pnbcrsvvc qjbcgqcnbepbvkcfo.crbbi,cfo.cgnbocnbecjqgnbecrsvvckso.
qugttttcPnbcrsvvcasybcnbecfchbfgsoa,cfcnqeeshvb,cpnfjbkuvchbfgsoacfo.
gnbocjfxhb,cgueocnbecqugcqkc.qqepttttcFo.cbybocskcpnbc.qbpcoqg,cgnb
.fexfcKefogpqyofpcrsvvcabgcrso.cqkcsg,cfo.cgnbcasevcrsvvcpqqochb
pvsiisoacqugcqocgnbcpvxcnbebcfo.cgnbebtcGnbocgnbebcrsvvchbcgnbcnqpisgfv
.seb gvxc(gnfg’pcfvrfxpcgnbcvu wcqkcgnqpbcasevpcrsgncebpib gfhvb
jqgnbep,crnqcaqcreqoacqocgnbcpvx)cfo.cgnbotttcfafsocgnbcnqpisgfvttt
.esowtttcgnbcgfybeoptttcfo.cjqebcnqpisgfv,csocgrqcqecgnebbcxbfep--f
reb w,cfo.cnbecvskbcqybecfgcbsangbbocqecosobgbbottttcNfybcoqgcScpbbo
 fpbpcvswbcgnfg?cFo.cnqrcnfybcgnbxchbbochequangcgqcsg?cRnx,cgnbx’ybcfvv
 qjbcgqcsgcvswbcgnfgtcUan!cHugcrnfgc.qbpcsgcjfggbe?cGnfg’pcfpcsgcpnquv.
hb,cgnbxcgbvvcuptcFc begfsocibe bogfab,cgnbxcgbvvcup,cjupgcbybexcxbfe
aqtttcgnfgcrfxtttcgqcgnbc.bysv,cScpuiiqpb,cpqcgnfgcgnbcebpgcjfxcebjfso
 nfpgb,cfo.coqgchbcsogbekbeb.crsgntcFcibe bogfab!cRnfgcpivbo.s.crqe.p
gnbxcnfyb;cgnbxcfebcpqcp sbogsks ,cpqc qopqvfgqexttttcQo bcxqu’ybcpfs.
‘ibe bogfab’cgnbeb’pcoqgnsoacjqebcgqcrqeexcfhqugtcSkcrbcnf.cfoxcqgnbe
rqe.tttcjfxhbcrbcjsangckbbvcjqebcuobfpxttttcHugcrnfgcskc.quosfcrbebcqob
qkcgnbcibe bogfab!cQkcfoqgnbecqobcskcoqgcgnfgcqob?

“HugcrnbebcfjcScaqsoa?”cnbcgnquangcpu..bovxtc“Pgefoab,cSc fjbcqugckqe
pqjbgnsoatcFpcpqqocfpcScnf.cebf.cgnbcvbggbecSc fjbcqugttttcScrfpcaqsoa
gqcYfppsvxbypwxcQpgeqy,cgqcEfzujsnsotcGnfg’pcrnfgcsgcrfptttcoqrcS
ebjbjhbetcRnfgckqe,cgnquan?cFo.crnfgciugcgnbcs.bfcqkcaqsoacgqcEfzujsnso
sogqcjxcnbf.cmupgcoqr?cGnfg’pc uesqupt”

Nbcrqo.beb.cfgcnsjpbvktcEfzujsnsocrfpcqobcqkcnspcqv.c qjef.bpcfgcgnb
uosybepsgxtcSgcrfpcebjfewfhvbcgnfgcEfpwqvoswqycnf.cnfe.vxcfoxckesbo.pcfg
gnbcuosybepsgx;cnbcwbigcfvqqkckeqjcbybexqob,crbogcgqcpbbcoqcqob,cfo.c.s.
oqgcrbv qjbcfoxqobcrnqc fjbcgqcpbbcnsj,cfo.cso.bb.cbybexqobcpqqocafyb
nsjcuitcNbcgqqwcoqcifegcsocgnbcpgu.bogp’cafgnbesoap,cfjupbjbogpcqe
 qoybepfgsqoptcNbcrqewb.crsgncaebfgcsogbopsgxcrsgnqugcpifesoacnsjpbvk,
fo.cnbcrfpcebpib gb.ckqecgnsp,chugcoqcqobcvswb.cnsjtcNbcrfpcybexciqqe,
fo.cgnbebcrfpcfcpqegcqkcnfuangxcies.bcfo.cebpbeybcfhqugcnsj,cfpcgnquan
nbcrbebcwbbisoacpqjbgnsoacgqcnsjpbvktcNbcpbbjb.cgqcpqjbcqkcnspc qjef.bp
gqcvqqwc.qrocuiqocgnbjcfvvcfpc nsv.ebo,cfpcgnquancnbcrbebcpuibesqecso
.bybvqijbog,cwoqrvb.abcfo.c qoys gsqop,cfpcgnquancgnbsechbvsbkpcfo.
sogbebpgpcrbebchbobfgncnsjt

RsgncEfzujsnsocnbcnf.caqgcqo,cqe,cfgcvbfpg,cnbcrfpcjqebcuoebpbeyb.cfo.
 qjjuos fgsybcrsgncnsjtcSo.bb.csgcrfpcsjiqppshvbcgqchbcqocfoxcqgnbe
gbejpcrsgncEfzujsnsotcNbcrfpcfocbd bigsqofvvxcaqq.-nujqueb.cfo.c fo.s.
xqugn,caqq.-ofgueb.cgqcgnbciqsogcqkcpsjivs sgx,cgnquanchqgnc.bigncfo.
.saosgxcvfxc qo bfvb.cuo.becgnfgcpsjivs sgxtcGnbchbggbecqkcnspc qjef.bp
uo.bepgqq.cgnsp,cfo.cfvvcrbebckqo.cqkcnsjtcNbcrfpcbdgebjbvxcsogbvvsabog,
gnquancnbcrfpc begfsovxcefgnbecfcpsjivbgqocfgcgsjbptcNbcrfpcqkcpgeswsoa
fiibfefo b--gfvv,cgnso,chvf wnfseb.cfo.cfvrfxpchf.vxcpnfyb.tcNbcrfp
pqjbgsjbpcuieqfesqupcfo.crfpcebiugb.cgqchbcqkcaebfgcinxps fvcpgeboagnt
Qobcosang,crnbocqugcsocfckbpgsybc qjifox,cnbcnf.crsgncqobchvqrcvfs.
fcasafogs ciqvs bjfocqocnspchf wtcGnbebcrfpcoqcvsjsgcgqcnspc.esowsoa
iqrbep,chugcnbc quv.cfhpgfsockeqjc.esowcfvgqabgnbe;cnbcpqjbgsjbpcrbog
gqqckfecsocnspciefowp;chugcnbc quv.c.qcrsgnqugciefowpcfvgqabgnbet
FoqgnbecgnsoacpgeswsoacfhqugcEfzujsnso,coqckfsvuebc.spgebppb.cnsj,cfo.
sgcpbbjb.cfpcgnquancoqcuokfyquefhvbc se ujpgfo bpc quv.c eupncnsjtcNb
 quv.cvq.abcfoxrnbeb,cfo.chbfecgnbcbdgebjbpcqkc qv.cfo.cnuoabetcNbcrfp
ybexciqqe,cfo.cwbigcnsjpbvkcbogsebvxcqocrnfgcnbc quv.cbfeochxcrqewcqk
qobcpqegcqecfoqgnbetcNbcwobrcqkcoqcbo.cqkcebpque bpchxcrns ncgqcbfeo
jqobxtcNbcpibogcqobcrnqvbcrsogbecrsgnqugcvsangsoacnspcpgqyb,cfo.cupb.cgq
.b vfebcgnfgcnbcvswb.csgchbggbe,chb fupbcqobcpvbigcjqebcpquo.vxcso
gnbc qv.tcKqecgnbciebpbogcnb,cgqq,cnf.chbbocqhvsab.cgqcasybcuicgnb
uosybepsgx,chugcsgcrfpcqovxckqecfcgsjb,cfo.cnbcrfpcrqewsoacrsgncfvvcnsp
jsangcgqcpfybcboquancgqcebgueocgqcnspcpgu.sbpcfafsotcEfpwqvoswqycnf.
oqgchbbocgqcpbbcnsjckqecgnbcvfpgckquecjqognp,cfo.cEfzujsnsoc.s.coqgcbybo
woqrcnspcf..ebpptcFhqugcgrqcjqognpchbkqeb,cgnbxcnf.cjbgcsocgnbcpgebbg,
hugcEfpwqvoswqycnf.cgueob.cfrfxcfo.cbyboc eqppb.cgqcgnbcqgnbecps.bcgnfg
nbcjsangcoqgchbcqhpbeyb.tcFo.cgnquancEfzujsnsocoqgs b.cnsj,cnbcifppb.
nsjchx,cfpcnbc.s.coqgcrfogcgqcfooqxcnsjt



 NFIGBEcY

“Qkc quepb,cS’ybchbbocjbfosoacvfgbvxcgqcaqcgqcEfzujsnso’pcgqcfpwckqe
rqew,cgqcfpwcnsjcgqcabgcjbcvbppqopcqecpqjbgnsoattt”cEfpwqvoswqycgnquang,
“hugcrnfgcnbvic focnbchbcgqcjbcoqr?cPuiiqpbcnbcabgpcjbcvbppqop,cpuiiqpb
nbcpnfebpcnspcvfpgckfegnsoacrsgncjb,cskcnbcnfpcfoxckfegnsoap,cpqcgnfg
Sc quv.cabgcpqjbchqqgpcfo.cjfwbcjxpbvkcgs.xcboquancgqcasybcvbppqopttt
njtttcRbvvcfo.crnfgcgnbo?cRnfgcpnfvvcSc.qcrsgncgnbckbrc qiibepcS
bfeo?cGnfg’pcoqgcrnfgcScrfogcoqrtcSg’pcebfvvxcfhpue.ckqecjbcgqcaqcgq
Efzujsnsotttt”

GnbclubpgsqocrnxcnbcrfpcoqrcaqsoacgqcEfzujsnsocfasgfgb.cnsjcbybocjqeb
gnfocnbcrfpcnsjpbvkcfrfeb;cnbcwbigcuobfpsvxcpbbwsoackqecpqjbcpsospgbe
psaosks fo bcsocgnspcfiifebogvxcqe.sofexcf gsqot

“ quv.cScnfybcbdib gb.cgqcpbgcsgcfvvcpgefsangcfo.cgqckso.cfcrfxcqugchx
jbfopcqkcEfzujsnsocfvqob?”cnbcfpwb.cnsjpbvkcsocibeivbdsgxt

Nbciqo.beb.cfo.ceuhhb.cnspckqebnbf.,cfo.,cpgefoabcgqcpfx,cfkgbecvqoa
jupsoa,cpu..bovx,cfpcskcsgcrbebcpiqogfobqupvxcfo.chxc nfo b,cfckfogfpgs 
gnquangc fjbcsogqcnspcnbf.t

“NjtttcgqcEfzujsnso’p,”cnbcpfs.cfvvcfgcqo b,c fvjvx,cfpcgnquancnbcnf.
ebf nb.cfcksofvc.bgbejsofgsqotc“ScpnfvvcaqcgqcEfzujsnso’pcqkc quepb,
hugtttcoqgcoqrtcScpnfvvcaqcgqcnsjtttcqocgnbcobdgc.fxcfkgbecSg,crnbocSg
rsvvchbcqybecfo.cbybexgnsoacrsvvchbasocfkebpntttt”

Fo.cpu..bovxcnbcebfvspb.crnfgcnbcrfpcgnsowsoat

“FkgbecSg,”cnbcpnqugb.,cmujisoacuickeqjcgnbcpbfg,c“hugcspcSgcebfvvx
aqsoacgqcnfiibo?cSpcsgciqppshvbcsgcebfvvxcrsvvcnfiibo?”cNbcvbkgcgnb
pbfg,cfo.crbogcqkkcfvjqpgcfgcfceuo;cnbcjbfogcgqcgueochf w,cnqjbrfe.p,
hugcgnbcgnquangcqkcaqsoacnqjbcpu..bovxcksvvb.cnsjcrsgncsogbopbcvqfgnsoa;
socgnfgcnqvb,csocgnfgcfrkuvcvsggvbc uihqfe.cqkcnsp,cfvvc_gnsp_cnf.ckqecf
jqogncifpgchbbocaeqrsoacuicsocnsj;cfo.cnbcrfvwb.cqocfgcefo.qjt

Nspcobeyqupcpnu..becnf.cifppb.csogqcfckbybecgnfgcjf.bcnsjckbbv
pnsybesoa;csocpisgbcqkcgnbcnbfgcnbckbvgc qv.tcRsgncfcwso.cqkcbkkqegcnb
hbafocfvjqpgcuo qop squpvx,ckeqjcpqjbcsoobec efysoa,cgqcpgfebcfgcfvv
gnbcqhmb gpchbkqebcnsj,cfpcgnquancvqqwsoackqecpqjbgnsoacgqc.spgef gcnsp
fggbogsqo;chugcnbc.s.coqgcpu  bb.,cfo.cwbigc.eqiisoacbybexcjqjbogcsogq
heqq.soatcRnbocrsgncfcpgfegcnbcvskgb.cnspcnbf.cfafsocfo.cvqqwb.cequo.,
nbckqeaqgcfgcqo bcrnfgcnbcnf.cmupgchbbocgnsowsoacfhqugcfo.cbybocrnbebcnb
rfpcaqsoatcSocgnspcrfxcnbcrfvwb.cesangcf eqppcYfppsvxbypwxcQpgeqy,c fjb
qugcqocgqcgnbcVbppbecObyf,c eqppb.cgnbches.abcfo.cgueob.cgqrfe.pcgnb
spvfo.ptcGnbcaebboobppcfo.ckebpnobppcrbebcfgcksepgcebpgkuvcgqcnspcrbfex
bxbpcfkgbecgnbc.upgcqkcgnbcgqrocfo.cgnbcnuabcnqupbpcgnfgcnbjjb.cnsjcso
fo.crbsanb.cuiqocnsjtcNbebcgnbebcrbebcoqcgfybeop,coqcpgskvsoac vqpbobpp,
oqcpgbo ntcHugcpqqocgnbpbcobrcivbfpfogcpbopfgsqopcifppb.csogqcjqehs.
seesgfhsvsgxtcPqjbgsjbpcnbcpgqq.cpgsvvchbkqebcfchesangvxcifsogb.cpujjbe
ysvvfcpgfo.soacfjqoacaebbockqvsfab,cnbcafzb.cgnequancgnbckbo b,cnbcpfr
socgnbc.spgfo bcpjfegvxc.ebppb.crqjbocqocgnbcybefo.fnpcfo.chfv qosbp,
fo.c nsv.eboceuoosoacsocgnbcafe.boptcGnbckvqrbepcbpib sfvvxc fuangcnsp
fggbogsqo;cnbcafzb.cfgcgnbjcvqoabecgnfocfgcfoxgnsoatcNbcrfpcjbg,cgqq,chx
vuduesqupc feesfabpcfo.chxcjbocfo.crqjbocqocnqepbhf w;cnbcrfg nb.cgnbj
rsgnc uesqupcbxbpcfo.ckqeaqgcfhqugcgnbjchbkqebcgnbxcnf.cyfospnb.ckeqj
nspcpsangtcQo bcnbcpgqq.cpgsvvcfo.c quogb.cnspcjqobx;cnbckquo.cnbcnf.
gnsegxc qib wptc“Grbogxcgqcgnbciqvs bjfo,cgnebbcgqcOfpgfpxfckqecgnb
vbggbe,cpqcScjupgcnfybcasybockqegx-pbybocqeckskgxcgqcgnbcJfejbvf.qyp
xbpgbe.fx,”cnbcgnquang,ceb wqosoacsgcuickqecpqjbcuowoqrocebfpqo,chugcnb
pqqockqeaqgcrsgncrnfgcqhmb gcnbcnf.cgfwbocgnbcjqobxcqugcqkcnspciq wbgt
Nbceb fvvb.csgcqocifppsoacfocbfgsoa-nqupbcqecgfybeo,cfo.ckbvgcgnfgcnb
rfpcnuoaexttttcAqsoacsogqcgnbcgfybeocnbc.efowcfcavfppcqkcyq.wfcfo.cfgbcf
isbcqkcpqjbcpqegtcNbcksospnb.cbfgsoacsgcfpcnbcrfvwb.cfrfxtcSgcrfpcfcvqoa
rnsvbcpso bcnbcnf.cgfwbocyq.wfcfo.csgcnf.cfocbkkb gcuiqocnsjcfgcqo b,
gnquancnbcqovxc.efowcfcrsobavfppkuvtcNspcvbapckbvgcpu..bovxcnbfyxcfo.
fcaebfgc.eqrpsobppc fjbcuiqocnsjtcNbcgueob.cnqjbrfe.p,chugcebf nsoa
IbgeqypwxcQpgeqycnbcpgqiib.c qjivbgbvxcbdnfupgb.,cgueob.cqkkcgnbceqf.
sogqcgnbchupnbp,cpfowc.qrocuiqocgnbcaefppcfo.csopgfogvxckbvvcfpvbbit

Socfcjqehs.c qo.sgsqocqkcgnbchefso,c.ebfjpcqkgbocnfybcfcpsoauvfe
f gufvsgx,cysys.obpp,cfo.cbdgefqe.sofexcpbjhvfo bcqkcebfvsgxtcFgcgsjbp
jqopgequpcsjfabpcfebc ebfgb.,chugcgnbcpbggsoacfo.cgnbcrnqvbcis guebcfeb
pqcgeugn-vswbcfo.cksvvb.crsgnc.bgfsvpcpqc.bvs fgb,cpqcuobdib gb.vx,chug
pqcfegspgs fvvxc qopspgbog,cgnfgcgnbc.ebfjbe,crbebcnbcfocfegspgcvswb
IupnwsocqecGueabobycbybo,c quv.cobybecnfybcsoybogb.cgnbjcsocgnbcrfwsoa
pgfgbtcPu ncps wc.ebfjpcfvrfxpcebjfsocvqoacsocgnbcjbjqexcfo.cjfwbcf
iqrbekuvcsjiebppsqocqocgnbcqyberequangcfo.c.befoab.cobeyqupcpxpgbjt

Efpwqvoswqycnf.cfckbfekuvc.ebfjtcNbc.ebfjgcnbcrfpchf wcsocnspc nsv.nqq.
socgnbcvsggvbcgqrocqkcnspchsegntcNbcrfpcfc nsv.cfhqugcpbybocxbfepcqv.,
rfvwsoacsogqcgnbc quogexcrsgncnspckfgnbecqocgnbcbybosoacqkcfcnqvs.fxtcSg
rfpcfcaebxcfo.cnbfyxc.fx,cgnbc quogexcrfpcbdf gvxcfpcnbcebjbjhbeb.csg;
so.bb.cnbceb fvvb.csgckfecjqebcysys.vxcsocnspc.ebfjcgnfocnbcnf.c.qobcso
jbjqextcGnbcvsggvbcgqrocpgqq.cqocfcvbybvckvfgcfpchfebcfpcgnbcnfo.,coqg
bybocfcrsvvqrcobfecsg;cqovxcsocgnbckfec.spgfo b,cfc qipbcvfx,cfc.few
hvuecqocgnbcybexcb.abcqkcgnbcnqeszqotcFckbrcif bpchbxqo.cgnbcvfpgcjfewbg
afe.bocpgqq.cfcgfybeo,cfchsacgfybeo,crns ncnf.cfvrfxpcfequpb.csocnsjcf
kbbvsoacqkcfybepsqo,cbybocqkckbfe,crnbocnbcrfvwb.chxcsgcrsgncnspckfgnbet
Gnbebcrfpcfvrfxpcfc eqr.cgnbeb,cfvrfxpcpnqugsoa,cvfuangbecfo.cfhupb,
ns.bqupcnqfepbcpsoasoacfo.cqkgbocksangsoatc.euowbocfo.cnqeeshvb-vqqwsoa
ksauebpcrbebcnfoasoacfhqugcgnbcgfybeotcNbcupb.cgqc vsoac vqpbcgqcnsp
kfgnbe,cgebjhvsoacfvvcqybecrnbocnbcjbgcgnbjtcObfecgnbcgfybeocgnbceqf.
hb fjbcfc.upgxcgef w,cgnbc.upgcqkcrns ncrfpcfvrfxpchvf wtcSgcrfpcf
rso.soaceqf.,cfo.cfhqugcfcnuo.eb.cif bpckuegnbecqo,csgcgueob.cgqcgnb
esangcgqcgnbcaefybxfe.tcSocgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbcaefybxfe.cpgqq.cfcpgqob
 nue ncrsgncfcaebboc uiqvfcrnbebcnbcupb.cgqcaqcgqcjfppcgrqcqecgnebb
gsjbpcfcxbfecrsgncnspckfgnbecfo.cjqgnbe,crnbocfcpbeys bcrfpcnbv.cso
jbjqexcqkcnspcaefo.jqgnbe,crnqcnf.cvqoachbboc.bf.,cfo.crnqjcnbcnf.cobybe
pbbotcQocgnbpbcq  fpsqopcgnbxcupb.cgqcgfwbcqocfcrnsgbc.spncgsb.cuicsocf
gfhvbcofiwsocfcpib sfvcpqegcqkces bciu..soacrsgncefspsopcpgu wcsocsgcso
gnbcpnfibcqkcfc eqpptcNbcvqyb.cgnfgc nue n,cgnbcqv.-kfpnsqob.,cuof.qeob.
swqopcfo.cgnbcqv.ciesbpgcrsgncgnbcpnfwsoacnbf.tcObfecnspcaefo.jqgnbe’p
aefyb,crns ncrfpcjfewb.chxcfcpgqob,crfpcgnbcvsggvbcaefybcqkcnspcxquoabe
heqgnbecrnqcnf.c.sb.cfgcpsdcjqognpcqv.tcNbc.s.coqgcebjbjhbecnsjcfgcfvv,
hugcnbcnf.chbbocgqv.cfhqugcnspcvsggvbcheqgnbe,cfo.crnbobybecnbcyspsgb.
gnbcaefybxfe.cnbcupb.cebvsasqupvxcfo.cebybebogvxcgqc eqppcnsjpbvkcfo.
gqchqrc.qrocfo.cwsppcgnbcvsggvbcaefybtcFo.coqrcnbc.ebfjgcgnfgcnbcrfp
rfvwsoacrsgncnspckfgnbecifpgcgnbcgfybeocqocgnbcrfxcgqcgnbcaefybxfe.;cnb
rfpcnqv.soacnspckfgnbe’pcnfo.cfo.cvqqwsoacrsgnc.ebf.cfgcgnbcgfybeotcF
ib uvsfec se ujpgfo bcfggef gb.cnspcfggbogsqo:cgnbebcpbbjb.cgqchb
pqjbcwso.cqkckbpgsysgxcaqsoacqo,cgnbebcrbebc eqr.pcqkcafsvxc.ebppb.
gqropibqivb,cibfpfogcrqjbo,cgnbsecnuphfo.p,cfo.ceskk-efkkcqkcfvvcpqegp,
fvvcpsoasoacfo.cfvvcjqebcqecvbppc.euowtcObfecgnbcbogefo bcqkcgnbcgfybeo
pgqq.cfc feg,chugcfcpgefoabc fegtcSgcrfpcqobcqkcgnqpbchsac fegpcupufvvx
.efrochxcnbfyxc feg-nqepbpcfo.cvf.bocrsgnc fpwpcqkcrsobcqecqgnbecnbfyx
aqq.ptcNbcfvrfxpcvswb.cvqqwsoacfgcgnqpbcaebfgc feg-nqepbp,crsgncgnbse
vqoacjfobp,cgns wcvbap,cfo.cpvqrcbybocif b,c.efrsoacfvqoacfcibekb g
jquogfsocrsgncoqcfiibfefo bcqkcbkkqeg,cfpcgnquancsgcrbebcbfpsbecaqsoa
rsgncfcvqf.cgnfocrsgnqugcsgtcHugcoqr,cpgefoabcgqcpfx,csocgnbcpnfkgpcqk
pu ncfc fegcnbcpfrcfcgnsocvsggvbcpqeebvchbfpg,cqobcqkcgnqpbcibfpfogp’
ofapcrns ncnbcnf.cqkgbocpbbocpgefsosoacgnbsecugjqpgcuo.becfcnbfyxcvqf.
qkcrqq.cqecnfx,cbpib sfvvxcrnbocgnbcrnbbvpcrbebcpgu wcsocgnbcju.cqecso
fceugtcFo.cgnbcibfpfogpcrquv.chbfgcgnbjcpqc eubvvx,cpqjbgsjbpcbybo
fhqugcgnbcoqpbcfo.cbxbp,cfo.cnbckbvgcpqcpqeex,cpqcpqeexckqecgnbjcgnfg
nbcfvjqpgc esb.,cfo.cnspcjqgnbecfvrfxpcupb.cgqcgfwbcnsjcfrfxckeqjcgnb
rso.qrtcFvvcqkcfcpu..bocgnbebcrfpcfcaebfgcuieqfecqkcpnqugsoa,cpsoasoa
fo.cgnbchfvfvfïwf,cfo.ckeqjcgnbcgfybeocfcoujhbecqkchsacfo.cybexc.euowbo
ibfpfogpc fjbcqug,crbfesoaceb.cfo.chvubcpnsegpcfo.c qfgpcgneqrocqybe
gnbsecpnquv.bept

“Abgcso,cabgcso!”cpnqugb.cqobcqkcgnbj,cfcxquoacgns w-ob wb.cibfpfogcrsgn
fckvbpnxckf bceb.cfpcfc feeqgtc“S’vvcgfwbcxqucfvv,cabgcso!”

Hugcfgcqo bcgnbebcrfpcfocqughebfwcqkcvfuangbecfo.cbd vfjfgsqopcsocgnb
 eqr.t

“Gfwbcupcfvvcrsgncfchbfpgcvswbcgnfg!”

“Rnx,cJswqvwf,cfebcxquc efzxcgqciugcfcofacvswbcgnfgcsocpu ncfc feg?”

“Fo.cgnspcjfebcspcgrbogxcskcpnbcspcfc.fx,cjfgbp!”

“Abgcso,cS’vvcgfwbcxqucfvv,”cJswqvwfcpnqugb.cfafso,cvbfisoacksepgcsogq
gnbc feg,cpbszsoacgnbcebsopcfo.cpgfo.soacpgefsangcuicsockeqogtc“Gnbchfx
nfpcaqobcrsgncJfgybx,”cnbcpnqugb.ckeqjcgnbc feg--“fo.cgnspcheugb,cjfgbp,
spcmupgchebfwsoacjxcnbfeg,cSckbbvcfpcskcSc quv.cwsvvcnbetcPnb’pcmupg
bfgsoacnbecnbf.cqkktcAbgcso,cScgbvvcxqu!cS’vvcjfwbcnbecafvvqi!cPnb’vv
afvvqi!”cfo.cnbcis wb.cuicgnbcrnsi,ciebifesoacnsjpbvkcrsgncebvspncgq
kvqacgnbcvsggvbcjfebt

“Abgcso!c qjbcfvqoa!”cGnbc eqr.cvfuanb.tc“.’xqucnbfe,cpnb’vvcafvvqi!”

“Afvvqicso.bb.!cPnbcnfpcoqgcnf.cfcafvvqicsocnbeckqecgnbcvfpgcgbocxbfep!”

“Pnb’vvcmqacfvqoa!”

“.qo’gcxqucjso.cnbe,cjfgbp,chesoacfcrnsicbf ncqkcxqu,cabgcebf.x!”

“Fvvcesang!cAsybcsgcgqcnbe!”

Gnbxcfvvc vfjhbeb.csogqcJswqvwf’pc feg,cvfuansoacfo.cjfwsoacmqwbptcPsd
jbocaqgcsocfo.cgnbebcrfpcpgsvvceqqjckqecjqebtcGnbxcnfuvb.csocfckfg,
eqpx- nbbwb.crqjfotcPnbcrfpc.ebppb.csoceb.c qggqo,csocfciqsogb.,chbf.b.
nbf..ebppcfo.cgns wcvbfgnbecpnqbp;cpnbcrfpc ef wsoacougpcfo.cvfuansoat
Gnbc eqr.cequo.cgnbjcrfpcvfuansoacgqqcfo.cso.bb.,cnqrc quv.cgnbxcnbvi
vfuansoa?cGnfgcrebg nb.cofacrfpcgqc.efacfvvcgnbc fegvqf.cqkcgnbjcfgcf
afvvqi!cGrqcxquoackbvvqrpcsocgnbc fegcrbebcmupgcabggsoacrnsipcebf.xcgq
nbvicJswqvwftcRsgncgnbc excqkc“oqr,”cgnbcjfebcguaab.crsgncfvvcnbecjsang,
hugckfeckeqjcafvvqisoa,c quv.cp fe bvxcjqybckqerfe.;cpnbcpgeuaavb.crsgn
nbecvbap,cafpisoacfo.cpnesowsoackeqjcgnbchvqrpcqkcgnbcgnebbcrnsipcrns n
rbebcpnqrbeb.cuiqocnbecvswbcnfsvtcGnbcvfuangbecsocgnbc fegcfo.csocgnb
 eqr.crfpceb.quhvb.,chugcJswqvwfckvbrcsogqcfcefabcfo.ckuesqupvxcgnefpnb.
gnbcjfeb,cfpcgnquancnbcpuiiqpb.cpnbcebfvvxc quv.cafvvqit

“Vbgcjbcabgcso,cgqq,cjfgbp,”cpnqugb.cfcxquoacjfocsocgnbc eqr.crnqpb
fiibgsgbcrfpcfequpb.t

“Abgcso,cfvvcabgcso,”c esb.cJswqvwf,c“pnbcrsvvc.efrcxqucfvvtcS’vvchbfg
nbecgqc.bfgn!”cFo.cnbcgnefpnb.cfo.cgnefpnb.cfgcgnbcjfeb,chbps.bcnsjpbvk
rsgnckuext

“Kfgnbe,ckfgnbe,”cnbc esb.,c“kfgnbe,crnfgcfebcgnbxc.qsoa?cKfgnbe,cgnbx
febchbfgsoacgnbciqqecnqepb!”

“ qjbcfvqoa,c qjbcfvqoa!”cpfs.cnspckfgnbetc“Gnbxcfebc.euowbocfo.
kqqvspn,cgnbxcfebcsockuo;c qjbcfrfx,c.qo’gcvqqw!”cfo.cnbcgesb.cgqc.efr
nsjcfrfx,chugcnbcgqebcnsjpbvkcfrfxckeqjcnspcnfo.,cfo.,chbps.bcnsjpbvk
rsgncnqeeqe,cefocgqcgnbcnqepbtcGnbciqqechbfpgcrfpcsocfchf.crfxtcPnbcrfp
afpisoa,cpgfo.soacpgsvv,cgnbocguaasoacfafsocfo.cfvjqpgckfvvsoat

“Hbfgcnbecgqc.bfgn,”c esb.cJswqvwf,c“sg’pc qjbcgqcgnfgtcS’vvc.qckqe
nbe!”

“Rnfgcfebcxqucfhqug,cfebcxqucfc nespgsfo,cxquc.bysv?”cpnqugb.cfocqv.cjfo
socgnbc eqr.t

“.s.cfoxqobcbybecpbbcgnbcvswb?cFcrebg nb.cofacvswbcgnfgciuvvsoacpu ncf
 fegvqf.,”cpfs.cfoqgnbet

“Xqu’vvcwsvvcnbe,”cpnqugb.cgnbcgnse.t

“.qo’gcjb..vb!cSg’pcjxcieqibegx,cS’vvc.qcrnfgcSc nqqpbtcAbgcso,cjqebcqk
xqu!cAbgcso,cfvvcqkcxqu!cScrsvvcnfybcnbecaqcfgcfcafvvqi!ttt”

Fvvcfgcqo bcvfuangbecheqwbcsogqcfceqfecfo.c qybeb.cbybexgnsoa:cgnbcjfeb,
equpb.chxcgnbcpnqrbecqkchvqrp,chbafockbbhvxcws wsoatcBybocgnbcqv.cjfo
 quv.coqgcnbvicpjsvsoatcGqcgnsowcqkcfcrebg nb.cvsggvbchbfpgcvswbcgnfg
gexsoacgqcws w!

Grqcvf.pcsocgnbc eqr.cpofg nb.cuicrnsipcfo.cefocgqcgnbcjfebcgqchbfgcnbe
fhqugcgnbceshptcQobcefocbf ncps.bt

“Nsgcnbecsocgnbckf b,csocgnbcbxbp,csocgnbcbxbp,”c esb.cJswqvwft

“Asybcupcfcpqoa,cjfgbp,”cpnqugb.cpqjbqobcsocgnbc fegcfo.cbybexqobcsocgnb
 fegcmqsob.csocfcesqgqupcpqoa,cmsoavsoacfcgfjhquesobcfo.crnspgvsoatcGnb
rqjfocrbogcqoc ef wsoacougpcfo.cvfuansoat

tttcNbcefochbps.bcgnbcjfeb,cefocsockeqogcqkcnbe,cpfrcnbechbsoacrnsiib.
f eqppcgnbcbxbp,cesangcsocgnbcbxbp!cNbcrfpc exsoa,cnbckbvgc nqwsoa,cnsp
gbfepcrbebcpgebfjsoatcQobcqkcgnbcjbocafybcnsjcfc ugcrsgncgnbcrnsicf eqpp
gnbckf b,cnbc.s.coqgckbbvcsgtcResoasoacnspcnfo.pcfo.cp ebfjsoa,cnb
eupnb.cuicgqcgnbcaebx-nbf.b.cqv.cjfocrsgncgnbcaebxchbfe.,crnqcrfp
pnfwsoacnspcnbf.csoc.spfiieqyfvtcQobcrqjfocpbszb.cnsjchxcgnbcnfo.cfo.
rquv.cnfybcgfwbocnsjcfrfx,chugcnbcgqebcnsjpbvkckeqjcnbecfo.cefochf wcgq
gnbcjfebtcPnbcrfpcfvjqpgcfgcgnbcvfpgcafpi,chugchbafocws wsoacqo bcjqebt

“S’vvcgbf ncxqucgqcws w,”cJswqvwfcpnqugb.ckbeq squpvxtcNbcgnebrc.qro
gnbcrnsi,chbogckqerfe.cfo.cis wb.cuickeqjcgnbchqggqjcqkcgnbc fegcfcvqoa,
gns wcpnfkg,cnbcgqqwcnqv.cqkcqobcbo.crsgnchqgncnfo.pcfo.crsgncfocbkkqeg
hefo.spnb.csgcqybecgnbcjfebt

“Nb’vvc eupncnbe,”crfpcpnqugb.cequo.cnsjtc“Nb’vvcwsvvcnbe!”

“Sg’pcjxcieqibegx,”cpnqugb.cJswqvwfcfo.chequangcgnbcpnfkgc.qrocrsgncf
prsoasoachvqrtcGnbebcrfpcfcpquo.cqkcfcnbfyxcgnu.t

“Gnefpncnbe,cgnefpncnbe!cRnxcnfybcxqucpgqiib.?”cpnqugb.cyqs bpcsocgnb
 eqr.t

Fo.cJswqvwfcpruoacgnbcpnfkgcfcpb qo.cgsjbcfo.csgckbvvcfcpb qo.cgsjb
qocgnbcpisobcqkcgnbcvu wvbppcjfebtcPnbcpfowchf wcqocnbecnfuo nbp,chug
vue nb.ckqerfe.cfo.cguaab.ckqerfe.crsgncfvvcnbeckqe b,cguaab.cksepgcqo
qobcps.bcfo.cgnbocqocgnbcqgnbe,cgexsoacgqcjqybcgnbc fegtcHugcgnbcpsd
rnsipcrbebcfggf wsoacnbecsocfvvc.seb gsqop,cfo.cgnbcpnfkgcrfpcefspb.
fafsocfo.ckbvvcuiqocnbecfcgnse.cgsjb,cgnbocfckquegn,crsgncnbfyxcjbfpueb.
hvqrptcJswqvwfcrfpcsocfckuexcgnfgcnbc quv.coqgcwsvvcnbecfgcqobchvqrt

“Pnb’pcfcgquancqob,”crfpcpnqugb.csocgnbc eqr.t

“Pnb’vvckfvvcsocfcjsougb,cjfgbp,cgnbebcrsvvcpqqochbcfocbo.cqkcnbe,”cpfs.
focf.jsesoacpib gfgqecsocgnbc eqr.t

“Kbg ncfocfdbcgqcnbe!cKsospncnbecqkk,”cpnqugb.cfcgnse.t

“S’vvcpnqrcxqu!cPgfo.cqkk,”cJswqvwfcp ebfjb.ckefogs fvvx;cnbcgnebrc.qro
gnbcpnfkg,cpgqqib.c.qrocsocgnbc fegcfo.cis wb.cuicfocseqoc eqrhfetc“Vqqw
qug,”cnbcpnqugb.,cfo.crsgncfvvcnspcjsangcnbc.bfvgcfcpguoosoachvqrcfgcgnb
iqqecjfebtcGnbchvqrckbvv;cgnbcjfebcpgfaabeb.,cpfowchf w,cgesb.cgqciuvv,
hugcgnbchfeckbvvcfafsocrsgncfcprsoasoachvqrcqocnbechf wcfo.cpnbckbvvcqo
gnbcaequo.cvswbcfcvqat

“Ksospncnbecqkk,”cpnqugb.cJswqvwfcfo.cnbcvbfigchbps.bcnsjpbvk,cqugcqk
gnbc fegtcPbybefvcxquoacjbo,cfvpqckvupnb.crsgnc.esow,cpbszb.cfoxgnsoa
gnbxc quv.c qjbcf eqpp--rnsip,cpgs wp,ciqvbp,cfo.cefocgqcgnbc.xsoa
jfebtcJswqvwfcpgqq.cqocqobcps.bcfo.chbafoc.bfvsoacefo.qjchvqrpcrsgncgnb
 eqrhfetcGnbcjfebcpgebg nb.cqugcnbecnbf.,c.ebrcfcvqoachebfgncfo.c.sb.t

“Xquchug nbeb.cnbe,”cpqjbqobcpnqugb.csocgnbc eqr.t

“Rnxcrquv.o’gcpnbcafvvqicgnbo?”

“Jxcieqibegx!”cpnqugb.cJswqvwf,crsgnchvqq.pnqgcbxbp,chefo.spnsoacgnbchfe
socnspcnfo.ptcNbcpgqq.cfpcgnquancebaebggsoacgnfgcnbcnf.coqgnsoacjqebcgq
hbfgt

“Oqcjspgfwbcfhqugcsg,cxqucfebcoqgcfc nespgsfo,”cjfoxcyqs bpcrbeb
pnqugsoacsocgnbc eqr.t

Hugcgnbciqqechqx,chbps.bcnsjpbvk,cjf.bcnspcrfx,cp ebfjsoa,cgnequancgnb
 eqr.cgqcgnbcpqeebvcofa,ciugcnspcfejpcequo.cnbechvbb.soac.bf.cnbf.cfo.
wsppb.csg,cwsppb.cgnbcbxbpcfo.cwsppb.cgnbcvsipttttcGnbocnbcmujib.cuicfo.
kvbrcsocfckebozxcrsgncnspcvsggvbckspgpcqugcfgcJswqvwftcFgcgnfgcsopgfog
nspckfgnbe,crnqcnf.chbboceuoosoacfkgbecnsj,cpofg nb.cnsjcuicfo.c feesb.
nsjcqugcqkcgnbc eqr.t

“ qjbcfvqoa,c qjb!cVbgcupcaqcnqjb,”cnbcpfs.cgqcnsjt

“Kfgnbe!cRnxc.s.cgnbxtttcwsvvtttcgnbciqqecnqepb!”cnbcpqhhb.,chugcnsp
yqs bcheqwbcfo.cgnbcrqe.pc fjbcsocpnesbwpckeqjcnspcifogsoac nbpgt

“Gnbxcfebc.euowttttcGnbxcfebcheugfvtttcsg’pcoqgcquechupsobpp!”cpfs.cnsp
kfgnbetcNbciugcnspcfejpcequo.cnspckfgnbechugcnbckbvgc nqwb.,c nqwb.tcNb
gesb.cgqc.efrcfchebfgn,cgqc excqug--fo.crqwbcuit

Nbcrfwb.cui,cafpisoackqechebfgn,cnspcnfsecpqfwb.crsgncibepisefgsqo,cfo.
pgqq.cuicsocgbeeqet

“GnfowcAq.,cgnfgcrfpcqovxcfc.ebfj,”cnbcpfs.,cpsggsoac.qrocuo.becfcgebb
fo.c.efrsoac.bbichebfgnptc“Hugcrnfgcspcsg?cSpcsgcpqjbckbybec qjsoacqo?
Pu ncfcns.bqupc.ebfj!”

Nbckbvgcuggbevxcheqwbo:c.fewobppcfo.c qokupsqocrbebcsocnspcpquvtcNb
ebpgb.cnspcbvhqrpcqocnspcwobbpcfo.cvbfob.cnspcnbf.cqocnspcnfo.pt

“Aqq.cAq.!”cnbc esb.,c“ focsgchb,c focsgchb,cgnfgcScpnfvvcebfvvxcgfwbcfo
fdb,cgnfgcScpnfvvcpgeswbcnbecqocgnbcnbf.,cpivsgcnbecpwuvvcqibotttcgnfgcS
pnfvvcgebf.csocgnbcpgs wxcrfejchvqq.,chebfwcgnbcvq w,cpgbfvcfo.cgebjhvb;
ns.b,cfvvcpifggbeb.csocgnbchvqq.tttcrsgncgnbcfdbttttcAqq.cAq.,c focsg
hb?”

Nbcrfpcpnfwsoacvswbcfcvbfkcfpcnbcpfs.cgnspt

“HugcrnxcfjcScaqsoacqocvswbcgnsp?”cnbc qogsoub.,cpsggsoacuicfafso,cfpcsg
rbebcsocieqkquo.cfjfzbjbogtc“ScwobrcgnfgcSc quv.cobybechesoacjxpbvk
gqcsg,cpqcrnfgcnfybcSchbbocgqeguesoacjxpbvkckqecgsvvcoqr?cXbpgbe.fx,
xbpgbe.fx,crnbocScrbogcgqcjfwbcgnfgtttc_bdibesjbog_,cxbpgbe.fxcS
ebfvspb.c qjivbgbvxcgnfgcSc quv.cobybechbfecgqc.qcsgttttcRnxcfjcScaqsoa
qybecsgcfafso,cgnbo?cRnxcfjcScnbpsgfgsoa?cFpcSc fjbc.qrocgnbcpgfsep
xbpgbe.fx,cScpfs.cjxpbvkcgnfgcsgcrfpchfpb,cvqfgnpqjb,cysvb,cysvbtttcgnb
ybexcgnquangcqkcsgcjf.bcjbckbbvcps wcfo.cksvvb.cjbcrsgncnqeeqet

“Oq,cSc quv.o’gc.qcsg,cSc quv.o’gc.qcsg!cAefogb.,caefogb.cgnfgcgnbebcsp
oqckvfrcsocfvvcgnfgcebfpqosoa,cgnfgcfvvcgnfgcScnfybc qo vu.b.cgnspcvfpg
jqogncspc vbfecfpc.fx,cgeubcfpcfesgnjbgs ttttcJxcAq.!cFoxrfxcSc quv.o’g
hesoacjxpbvkcgqcsg!cSc quv.o’gc.qcsg,cSc quv.o’gc.qcsg!cRnx,crnxcgnbocfj
Scpgsvvttt?”

Nbceqpbcgqcnspckbbg,cvqqwb.cequo.csocrqo.becfpcgnquancpueiespb.cfg
kso.soacnsjpbvkcsocgnspcivf b,cfo.crbogcgqrfe.pcgnbches.abtcNbcrfpcifvb,
nspcbxbpcavqrb.,cnbcrfpcbdnfupgb.csocbybexcvsjh,chugcnbcpbbjb.cpu..bovx
gqchebfgnbcjqebcbfpsvxtcNbckbvgcnbcnf.c fpgcqkkcgnfgckbfekuvchue.bocgnfg
nf.cpqcvqoachbbocrbsansoacuiqocnsj,cfo.cfvvcfgcqo bcgnbebcrfpcfcpbopb
qkcebvsbkcfo.cibf bcsocnspcpquvtc“Vqe.,”cnbciefxb.,c“pnqrcjbcjxcifgn--S
eboquo bcgnfgcf  uepb.tttc.ebfjcqkcjsobt”

 eqppsoacgnbches.ab,cnbcafzb.clusbgvxcfo.c fvjvxcfgcgnbcObyf,cfgcgnb
avqrsoaceb.cpuocpbggsoacsocgnbcavqrsoacpwxtcSocpisgbcqkcnspcrbfwobppcnb
rfpcoqgc qop squpcqkckfgsaubtcSgcrfpcfpcgnquancfocfhp bppcgnfgcnf.chbbo
kqejsoackqecfcjqogncifpgcsocnspcnbfegcnf.cpu..bovxcheqwbotcKebb.qj,
kebb.qj!cNbcrfpckebbckeqjcgnfgcpibvv,cgnfgcpqe bex,cgnfgcqhpbppsqo!

Vfgbecqo,crnbocnbceb fvvb.cgnfgcgsjbcfo.cfvvcgnfgcnfiibob.cgqcnsjc.uesoa
gnqpbc.fxp,cjsougbchxcjsougb,ciqsogchxciqsog,cnbcrfpcpuibepgsgsqupvx
sjiebppb.chxcqobc se ujpgfo b,crns n,cgnquancsocsgpbvkcoqgcybex
bd bigsqofv,cfvrfxpcpbbjb.cgqcnsjcfkgberfe.pcgnbcieb.bpgsob.
gueosoa-iqsogcqkcnspckfgbtcNbc quv.cobybecuo.bepgfo.cfo.cbdivfsocgq
nsjpbvkcrnx,crnbocnbcrfpcgseb.cfo.crqeocqug,crnbocsgcrquv.cnfybchbbo
jqebc qoybosbogckqecnsjcgqcaqcnqjbchxcgnbcpnqegbpgcfo.cjqpgc.seb gcrfx,
nbcnf.cebgueob.chxcgnbcNfxcJfewbgcrnbebcnbcnf.coqcobb.cgqcaqtcSgcrfp
qhysqupvxcfo.clusgbcuoob bppfesvxcqugcqkcnspcrfx,cgnquancoqgcju ncpqtcSg
spcgeubcgnfgcsgcnfiibob.cgqcnsjc.qzbopcqkcgsjbpcgqcebgueocnqjbcrsgnqug
oqgs soacrnfgcpgebbgpcnbcifppb.cgnequantcHugcrnx,cnbcrfpcfvrfxpcfpwsoa
nsjpbvk,crnxcnf.cpu ncfocsjiqegfog,cpu ncfc.b spsybcfo.cfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjb
pu ncfocfhpqvugbvxc nfo bcjbbgsoacnfiibob.csocgnbcNfxcJfewbgc(rnbebcnb
nf.cjqebqybecoqcebfpqocgqcaq)cfgcgnbcybexcnque,cgnbcybexcjsougbcqkcnsp
vskbcrnbocnbcrfpcmupgcsocgnbcybexcjqq.cfo.csocgnbcybexc se ujpgfo bp
socrns ncgnfgcjbbgsoacrfpcfhvbcgqcbdbegcgnbcaefybpgcfo.cjqpgc.b spsyb
sokvubo bcqocnspcrnqvbc.bpgsox?cFpcgnquancsgcnf.chbbocvxsoacsocrfsgckqe
nsjcqociueiqpb!

Sgcrfpcfhqugcosobcq’ vq wcrnbocnbc eqppb.cgnbcNfxcJfewbgtcFgcgnbcgfhvbp
fo.cgnbchfeeqrp,cfgcgnbchqqgnpcfo.cgnbcpnqip,cfvvcgnbcjfewbgcibqivbcrbeb
 vqpsoacgnbsecbpgfhvspnjbogpcqec vbfesoacfrfxcfo.cif wsoacuicgnbse
rfebpcfo.,cvswbcgnbsec upgqjbep,crbebcaqsoacnqjbtcEfacis wbepcfo.
 qpgbejqoabepcqkcfvvcwso.pcrbebc eqr.soacequo.cgnbcgfybeopcsocgnbc.segx
fo.cpgsowsoac quegxfe.pcqkcgnbcNfxcJfewbgtcEfpwqvoswqycifegs uvfevx
vswb.cgnspcivf bcfo.cgnbcobsanhquesoacfvvbxp,crnbocnbcrfo.beb.cfsjvbppvx
socgnbcpgebbgptcNbebcnspcefapc.s.coqgcfggef gc qogbjiguqupcfggbogsqo,
fo.cqobc quv.crfvwcfhqugcsocfoxcfggsebcrsgnqugcp fo.fvspsoacibqivbtcFg
gnbc qeobecqkcfocfvvbxcfcnu wpgbecfo.cnspcrskbcnf.cgrqcgfhvbpcpbgcqug
rsgncgfibp,cgnebf.,c qggqocnfo.wbe nsbkp,cbg tcGnbx,cgqq,cnf.caqgcuicgq
aqcnqjb,chugcrbebcvsoabesoacsoc qoybepfgsqocrsgncfckesbo.,crnqcnf.cmupg
 qjbcuicgqcgnbjtcGnspckesbo.crfpcVszfybgfcSyfoqyof,cqe,cfpcbybexqob
 fvvb.cnbe,cVszfybgf,cgnbcxquoabecpspgbecqkcgnbcqv.cifroheqwbe,cFvxqof
Syfoqyof,crnqjcEfpwqvoswqycnf.cyspsgb.cgnbciebysqupc.fxcgqcifrocnsp
rfg ncfo.cjfwbcnspc_bdibesjbog_ttttcNbcfvebf.xcwobrcfvvcfhqugcVszfybgf
fo.cpnbcwobrcnsjcfcvsggvbcgqqtcPnbcrfpcfcpsoavbcrqjfocqkcfhqug
gnsegx-ksyb,cgfvv,c vujpx,cgsjs.,cpuhjsppsybcfo.cfvjqpgcs.sqgs tcPnbcrfp
fc qjivbgbcpvfybcfo.crbogcsockbfecfo.cgebjhvsoacqkcnbecpspgbe,crnq
jf.bcnbecrqewc.fxcfo.cosang,cfo.cbybochbfgcnbetcPnbcrfpcpgfo.soacrsgn
fchuo.vbchbkqebcgnbcnu wpgbecfo.cnspcrskb,cvspgbosoacbfeobpgvxcfo.
.quhgkuvvxtcGnbxcrbebcgfvwsoacqkcpqjbgnsoacrsgncpib sfvcrfejgntcGnb
jqjbogcEfpwqvoswqyc fuangcpsangcqkcnbe,cnbcrfpcqybe qjbchxcfcpgefoab
pbopfgsqocfpcsgcrbebcqkcsogbopbcfpgqospnjbog,cgnquancgnbebcrfpcoqgnsoa
fpgqospnsoacfhqugcgnspcjbbgsoat

“Xquc quv.cjfwbcuicxquecjso.ckqecxquepbvk,cVszfybgfcSyfoqyof,”cgnb
nu wpgbecrfpcpfxsoacfvqu.tc“ qjbcequo.cgq-jqeeqrcfhqugcpbybotcGnbxcrsvv
hbcnbebcgqqt”

“Gq-jqeeqr?”cpfs.cVszfybgfcpvqrvxcfo.cgnquangkuvvx,cfpcgnquancuofhvbcgq
jfwbcuicnbecjso.t

“Uiqocjxcrqe.,crnfgcfckesangcxqucfebcsocqkcFvxqofcSyfoqyof,”cafhhvb.
gnbcnu wpgbe’pcrskb,cfcvsybvxcvsggvbcrqjfotc“Scvqqwcfgcxqu,cxqucfebcvswb
pqjbcvsggvbchfhbtcFo.cpnbcspcoqgcxquecqrocpspgbecbsgnbe--oqgnsoachugcf
pgbi-pspgbecfo.crnfgcfcnfo.cpnbcwbbipcqybecxqu!”

“Hugcgnspcgsjbc.qo’gcpfxcfcrqe.cgqcFvxqofcSyfoqyof,”cnbecnuphfo.
sogbeeuigb.;c“gnfg’pcjxcf.ys b,chugc qjbcequo.cgqcupcrsgnqugcfpwsoat
SgcrsvvchbcrqegncxquecrnsvbtcVfgbecqocxquecpspgbecnbepbvkcjfxcnfybcf
oqgsqot”

“FjcScgqc qjb?”

“Fhqugcpbybocq’ vq wcgq-jqeeqrtcFo.cgnbxcrsvvchbcnbebtcXqucrsvvchbcfhvb
gqc.b s.bckqecxquepbvkt”

“Fo.crb’vvcnfybcfc uicqkcgbf,”cf..b.cnspcrskbt

“Fvvcesang,cS’vvc qjb,”cpfs.cVszfybgf,cpgsvvciqo.besoa,cfo.cpnbchbafo
pvqrvxcjqysoacfrfxt

Efpwqvoswqycnf.cmupgcifppb.cfo.cnbfe.coqcjqebtcNbcifppb.cpqkgvx,
uooqgs b.,cgexsoacoqgcgqcjsppcfcrqe.tcNspcksepgcfjfzbjbogcrfpckqvvqrb.
hxcfcgnesvvcqkcnqeeqe,cvswbcfcpnsybeceuoosoac.qrocnspcpisobtcNbcnf.
vbfeog,cnbcnf.cpu..bovxclusgbcuobdib gb.vxcvbfeog,cgnfgcgnbcobdgc.fxcfg
pbybocq’ vq wcVszfybgf,cgnbcqv.crqjfo’pcpspgbecfo.cqovxc qjifosqo,crquv.
hbcfrfxckeqjcnqjbcfo.cgnfgcgnbebkqebcfgcpbybocq’ vq wcieb spbvxcgnbcqv.
rqjfoc_rquv.chbcvbkgcfvqob_t

Nbcrfpcqovxcfckbrcpgbipckeqjcnspcvq.asoatcNbcrbogcsocvswbcfcjfo
 qo.bjob.cgqc.bfgntcNbcgnquangcqkcoqgnsoacfo.crfpcso fifhvbcqkcgnsowsoa;
hugcnbckbvgcpu..bovxcsocnspcrnqvbchbsoacgnfgcnbcnf.coqcjqebckebb.qj
qkcgnquang,coqcrsvv,cfo.cgnfgcbybexgnsoacrfpcpu..bovxcfo.cseebyq fhvx
.b s.b.t

 begfsovx,cskcnbcnf.cgqcrfsgcrnqvbcxbfepckqecfcpusgfhvbcqiiqeguosgx,cnb
 quv.coqgceb wqocqocfcjqebc begfsocpgbicgqrfe.pcgnbcpu  bppcqkcgnbcivfo
gnfocgnfgcrns ncnf.cmupgciebpbogb.csgpbvktcSocfoxc fpb,csgcrquv.cnfyb
hbboc.skks uvgcgqckso.cqugchbkqebnfo.cfo.crsgnc begfsogx,crsgn
aebfgbecbdf gobppcfo.cvbppcespw,cfo.crsgnqugc.foabequpcsolusesbpcfo.
soybpgsafgsqop,cgnfgcobdgc.fxcfgcfc begfsocgsjbcfocqv.crqjfo,cqocrnqpb
vskbcfocfggbjigcrfpc qogbjivfgb.,crquv.chbcfgcnqjbcfo.cbogsebvxcfvqobt



 NFIGBEcYS

VfgbecqocEfpwqvoswqycnfiibob.cgqckso.cqugcrnxcgnbcnu wpgbecfo.cnsp
rskbcnf.csoysgb.cVszfybgftcSgcrfpcfcybexcqe.sofexcjfggbecfo.cgnbebcrfp
oqgnsoacbd bigsqofvcfhqugcsgtcFckfjsvxcrnqcnf.c qjbcgqcgnbcgqrocfo.chbbo
eb.u b.cgqciqybegxcrbebcpbvvsoacgnbsecnqupbnqv.caqq.pcfo.c vqgnbp,cfvv
rqjbo’pcgnsoaptcFpcgnbcgnsoapcrquv.cnfybckbg nb.cvsggvbcsocgnbcjfewbg,
gnbxcrbebcvqqwsoackqecfc.bfvbetcGnspcrfpcVszfybgf’pchupsobpptcPnb
uo.begqqwcpu ncmqhpcfo.crfpckeblubogvxcbjivqxb.,cfpcpnbcrfpcybexcnqobpg
fo.cfvrfxpcksdb.cfckfsecies bcfo.cpgu wcgqcsgtcPnbcpiqwbcfpcfceuvb
vsggvbcfo.,cfpcrbcnfybcpfs.cfvebf.x,cpnbcrfpcybexcpuhjsppsybcfo.cgsjs.t

HugcEfpwqvoswqycnf.chb qjbcpuibepgsgsqupcqkcvfgbtcGnbcgef bpcqk
puibepgsgsqocebjfsob.csocnsjcvqoacfkgbe,cfo.crbebcfvjqpgcsobef.s fhvbt
Fo.csocfvvcgnspcnbcrfpcfvrfxpcfkgberfe.pc.spiqpb.cgqcpbbcpqjbgnsoa
pgefoabcfo.cjxpgbesqup,cfpcsgcrbeb,cgnbciebpbo bcqkcpqjbcib uvsfe
sokvubo bpcfo.c qso s.bo bptcSocgnbciebysqupcrsogbecfcpgu.bogcnbcwobr
 fvvb.cIqwqeby,crnqcnf.cvbkgckqecNfewqy,cnf.c nfo b.csoc qoybepfgsqocgq
asybcnsjcgnbcf..ebppcqkcFvxqofcSyfoqyof,cgnbcqv.cifroheqwbe,csoc fpbcnb
jsangcrfogcgqcifrocfoxgnsoatcKqecfcvqoacrnsvbcnbc.s.coqgcaqcgqcnbe,ckqe
nbcnf.cvbppqopcfo.cjfofab.cgqcabgcfvqoacpqjbnqrtcPsdcrbbwpcfaqcnbcnf.
ebjbjhbeb.cgnbcf..ebpp;cnbcnf.cgrqcfegs vbpcgnfgc quv.chbcifrob.:cnsp
kfgnbe’pcqv.cpsvybecrfg ncfo.cfcvsggvbcaqv.cesoacrsgncgnebbceb.cpgqobp,
fciebpbogckeqjcnspcpspgbecfgcifegsoatcNbc.b s.b.cgqcgfwbcgnbcesoatcRnbo
nbckquo.cgnbcqv.crqjfocnbcnf.ckbvgcfocsopuejquogfhvbcebiuvpsqockqecnbe
fgcgnbcksepgcavfo b,cgnquancnbcwobrcoqgnsoacpib sfvcfhqugcnbetcNbcaqg
grqcequhvbpckeqjcnbecfo.crbogcsogqcfcjspbefhvbcvsggvbcgfybeocqocnspcrfx
nqjbtcNbcfpwb.ckqecgbf,cpfgc.qrocfo.cpfowcsogqc.bbicgnquangtcFcpgefoab
s.bfcrfpcib wsoacfgcnspchefsocvswbcfc ns wbocsocgnbcbaa,cfo.cybex,cybex
ju ncfhpqehb.cnsjt

Fvjqpgchbps.bcnsjcfgcgnbcobdgcgfhvbcgnbebcrfpcpsggsoacfcpgu.bog,crnqjcnb
.s.coqgcwoqrcfo.cnf.cobybecpbbo,cfo.crsgncnsjcfcxquoacqkks betcGnbxcnf.
ivfxb.cfcafjbcqkchsvvsfe.pcfo.chbafoc.esowsoacgbftcFvvcfgcqo bcnbcnbfe.
gnbcpgu.bogcjbogsqocgqcgnbcqkks becgnbcifroheqwbecFvxqofcSyfoqyofcfo.
asybcnsjcnbecf..ebpptcGnspcqkcsgpbvkcpbbjb.cpgefoabcgqcEfpwqvoswqy;cnb
nf.cmupgc qjbckeqjcnbecfo.cnbebcfgcqo bcnbcnbfe.cnbecofjbtcQkc quepb
sgcrfpcfc nfo b,chugcnbc quv.coqgcpnfwbcqkkcfcybexcbdgefqe.sofex
sjiebppsqo,cfo.cnbebcpqjbqobcpbbjb.cgqchbcpibfwsoacbdiebppvxckqecnsj;
gnbcpgu.bogchbafocgbvvsoacnspckesbo.cyfesqupc.bgfsvpcfhqugcFvxqof
Syfoqyoft

“Pnbcspcksepg-efgb,”cnbcpfs.tc“Xquc focfvrfxpcabgcjqobxckeqjcnbetcPnbcsp
fpces ncfpcfcMbr,cpnbc focasybcxqucksybcgnqupfo.cequhvbpcfgcfcgsjbcfo.
pnbcspcoqgcfhqybcgfwsoacfcivb.abckqecfcequhvbtcVqgpcqkcqueckbvvqrpcnfyb
nf.c.bfvsoapcrsgncnbetcHugcpnbcspcfocfrkuvcqv.cnfeixtttt”

Fo.cnbchbafoc.bp eshsoacnqrcpisgbkuvcfo.cuo begfsocpnbcrfp,cnqrcskcxqu
rbebcqovxcfc.fxcvfgbcrsgncxquecsogbebpgcgnbcivb.abcrfpcvqpg;cnqrcpnb
afybcfclufegbecqkcgnbcyfvubcqkcfocfegs vbcfo.cgqqwcksybcfo.cbybocpbybo
ibe bogcfcjqogncqocsgcfo.cpqcqotcGnbcpgu.bogc nfggbeb.cqo,cpfxsoa
gnfgcpnbcnf.cfcpspgbecVszfybgf,crnqjcgnbcrebg nb.cvsggvbc ebfguebcrfp
 qogsoufvvxchbfgsoa,cfo.cwbigcsoc qjivbgbchqo.fabcvswbcfcpjfvvc nsv.,
gnquancVszfybgfcrfpcfgcvbfpgcpsdckbbgcnsant

“Gnbeb’pcfcinboqjboqockqecxqu,”c esb.cgnbcpgu.bogcfo.cnbcvfuanb.t

GnbxchbafocgfvwsoacfhqugcVszfybgftcGnbcpgu.bogcpiqwbcfhqugcnbecrsgncf
ib uvsfecebvspncfo.crfpc qogsoufvvxcvfuansoacfo.cgnbcqkks becvspgbob.
rsgncaebfgcsogbebpgcfo.cfpwb.cnsjcgqcpbo.cVszfybgfcgqc.qcpqjbcjbo.soa
kqecnsjtcEfpwqvoswqyc.s.coqgcjsppcfcrqe.cfo.cvbfeob.cbybexgnsoacfhqug
nbetcVszfybgfcrfpcxquoabecgnfocgnbcqv.crqjfocfo.crfpcnbecnfvk-pspgbe,
hbsoacgnbc nsv.cqkcfc.skkbebogcjqgnbetcPnbcrfpcgnsegx-ksybtcPnbcrqewb.
.fxcfo.cosangckqecnbecpspgbe,cfo.chbps.bpc.qsoacgnbc qqwsoacfo.cgnb
rfpnsoa,cpnbc.s.cpbrsoacfo.crqewb.cfpcfc nferqjfocfo.cafybcnbecpspgbe
fvvcpnbcbfeob.tcPnbc.s.coqgc.febcgqcf  bigcfocqe.becqecmqhcqkcfoxcwso.
rsgnqugcnbecpspgbe’pcibejsppsqotcGnbcqv.crqjfocnf.cfvebf.xcjf.bcnbe
rsvv,cfo.cVszfybgfcwobrcqkcsg,cfo.chxcgnspcrsvvcpnbcrquv.coqgcabgcf
kfegnsoa;coqgnsoachugcgnbcjqyfhvbp,c nfsepcfo.cpqcqo;cfvvcgnbcjqobxcrfp
vbkgcgqcfcjqofpgbexcsocgnbcieqyso bcqkcO----,cgnfgciefxbepcjsangchb
pfs.ckqecnbecsocibeibgusgxtcVszfybgfcrfpcqkcvqrbecefowcgnfocnbecpspgbe,
uojfeesb.cfo.cfrkuvvxcuo qugncsocfiibfefo b,cebjfewfhvxcgfvvcrsgncvqoa
kbbgcgnfgcvqqwb.cfpcskcgnbxcrbebchbogcqugrfe.ptcPnbcfvrfxpcrqebchfggbeb.
aqfgpwsocpnqbp,cfo.crfpc vbfocsocnbecibepqotcRnfgcgnbcpgu.bogcbdiebppb.
jqpgcpueiespbcfo.cfjupbjbogcfhqugcrfpcgnbckf gcgnfgcVszfybgfcrfp
 qogsoufvvxcrsgnc nsv.t

“Hugcxqucpfxcpnbcspcns.bqup?”cqhpbeyb.cgnbcqkks bet

“Xbp,cpnbcspcpqc.few-pwsoob.cfo.cvqqwpcvswbcfcpqv.sbec.ebppb.cui,chug
xqucwoqrcpnbcspcoqgcfgcfvvcns.bquptcPnbcnfpcpu ncfcaqq.-ofgueb.ckf b
fo.cbxbptcPgeswsoavxcpqtcFo.cgnbcieqqkcqkcsgcspcgnfgcvqgpcqkcibqivbcfeb
fggef gb.chxcnbetcPnbcspcpu ncfcpqkg,cabogvbc ebfgueb,cebf.xcgqciugcui
rsgncfoxgnsoa,cfvrfxpcrsvvsoa,crsvvsoacgqc.qcfoxgnsoatcFo.cnbecpjsvbcsp
ebfvvxcybexcprbbgt”

“Xqucpbbjcgqckso.cnbecfggef gsybcxquepbvk,”cvfuanb.cgnbcqkks bet

“KeqjcnbeclubbeobpptcOq,cS’vvcgbvvcxqucrnfgtcSc quv.cwsvvcgnfgc.fjob.
qv.crqjfocfo.cjfwbcqkkcrsgncnbecjqobx,cScfppuebcxqu,crsgnqugcgnb
kfsogbpgc qop sbo b-ies w,”cgnbcpgu.bogcf..b.crsgncrfejgntcGnbcqkks be
vfuanb.cfafsocrnsvbcEfpwqvoswqycpnu..beb.tcNqrcpgefoabcsgcrfp!

“Vspgbo,cScrfogcgqcfpwcxqucfcpbesqupclubpgsqo,”cgnbcpgu.bogcpfs.cnqgvxt
“Scrfpcmqwsoacqkc quepb,chugcvqqwcnbeb;cqocqobcps.bcrbcnfybcfcpguis.,
pbopbvbpp,crqegnvbpp,cpisgbkuv,cfsvsoa,cnqees.cqv.crqjfo,coqgcpsjivx
upbvbppchugc.qsoacf gufvcjsp nsbk,crnqcnfpcoqgcfocs.bfcrnfgcpnbcsp
vsysoackqecnbepbvk,cfo.crnqcrsvvc.sbcsocfc.fxcqecgrqcsocfoxc fpbtcXqu
uo.bepgfo.?cXqucuo.bepgfo.?”

“Xbp,cxbp,cScuo.bepgfo.,”cfoprbeb.cgnbcqkks be,crfg nsoacnspcbd sgb.
 qjifosqocfggbogsybvxt

“Rbvv,cvspgbocgnbotcQocgnbcqgnbecps.b,ckebpncxquoacvsybpcgneqrocfrfxckqe
rfogcqkcnbvicfo.chxcgnqupfo.p,cqocbybexcps.b!cFcnuo.eb.cgnqupfo.caqq.
.bb.pc quv.chbc.qobcfo.cnbvib.,cqocgnfgcqv.crqjfo’pcjqobxcrns ncrsvvchb
huesb.csocfcjqofpgbex!cNuo.eb.p,cgnqupfo.pcibenfip,cjsangchbcpbgcqocgnb
esangcifgn;c.qzbopcqkckfjsvsbpcpfyb.ckeqjc.bpgsgugsqo,ckeqjceuso,ckeqj
ys b,ckeqjcgnbcVq wcnqpisgfvp--fo.cfvvcrsgncnbecjqobxtcWsvvcnbe,cgfwb
nbecjqobxcfo.crsgncgnbcnbvicqkcsgc.byqgbcqobpbvkcgqcgnbcpbeys bcqk
nujfosgxcfo.cgnbcaqq.cqkcfvvtcRnfgc.qcxqucgnsow,crquv.coqgcqobcgsox
 esjbchbcrsib.cqugchxcgnqupfo.pcqkcaqq.c.bb.p?cKqecqobcvskbcgnqupfo.p
rquv.chbcpfyb.ckeqjc qeeuigsqocfo.c.b fxtcQobc.bfgn,cfo.cfcnuo.eb.cvsybp
socbd nfoab--sg’pcpsjivbcfesgnjbgs !cHbps.bp,crnfgcyfvubcnfpcgnbcvskbcqk
gnfgcps wvx,cpguis.,csvv-ofgueb.cqv.crqjfocsocgnbchfvfo bcqkcbdspgbo b!
Oqcjqebcgnfocgnbcvskbcqkcfcvqupb,cqkcfchvf w-hbbgvb,cvbppcsockf g
hb fupbcgnbcqv.crqjfocspc.qsoacnfejtcPnbcspcrbfesoacqugcgnbcvsybpcqk
qgnbep;cgnbcqgnbec.fxcpnbchsgcVszfybgf’pcksoabecqugcqkcpisgb;csgcfvjqpg
nf.cgqchbcfjiugfgb.t”

“Qkc quepbcpnbc.qbpcoqgc.bpbeybcgqcvsyb,”cebjfewb.cgnbcqkks be,c“hug
gnbebcsgcsp,csg’pcofguebt”

“Qn,crbvv,cheqgnbe,chugcrbcnfybcgqc qeeb gcfo.c.seb gcofgueb,cfo.,chug
kqecgnfg,crbcpnquv.c.eqrocsocfocq bfocqkciebmu.s btcHugckqecgnfg,
gnbebcrquv.cobybecnfybchbbocfcpsoavbcaebfgcjfotcGnbxcgfvwcqk
.ugx,c qop sbo b--Sc.qo’gcrfogcgqcpfxcfoxgnsoacfafsopgc.ugxcfo.
 qop sbo b;--hugcgnbciqsogcsp,crnfgc.qcrbcjbfochxcgnbj?cPgfx,cScnfyb
foqgnbeclubpgsqocgqcfpwcxqutcVspgbo!”

“Oq,cxqucpgfx,cS’vvcfpwcxqucfclubpgsqotcVspgbo!”

“Rbvv?”

“Xqucfebcgfvwsoacfo.cpibb nskxsoacfrfx,chugcgbvvcjb,crquv.cxqucwsvvcgnb
qv.crqjfoc_xquepbvk_?”

“Qkc quepbcoqg!cScrfpcqovxcfeausoacgnbcmupgs bcqkcsgttttcSg’pcoqgnsoacgq
.qcrsgncjbtttt”

“HugcScgnsow,cskcxqucrquv.coqgc.qcsgcxquepbvk,cgnbeb’pcoqcmupgs bcfhqug
sgttttcVbgcupcnfybcfoqgnbecafjbt”

Efpwqvoswqycrfpcysqvbogvxcfasgfgb.tcQkc quepb,csgcrfpcfvvcqe.sofex
xqugnkuvcgfvwcfo.cgnquang,cpu ncfpcnbcnf.cqkgbocnbfe.chbkqebcso
.skkbebogckqejpcfo.cqoc.skkbebogcgnbjbptcHugcrnxcnf.cnbcnfiibob.cgqcnbfe
pu ncfc.sp uppsqocfo.cpu ncs.bfpcfgcgnbcybexcjqjbogcrnbocnspcqrochefso
rfpcmupgc qo bsysoatttc_gnbcybexcpfjbcs.bfp_?cFo.crnx,cmupgcfgcgnb
jqjbogcrnbocnbcnf.chequangcfrfxcgnbcbjhexqcqkcnspcs.bfckeqjcgnbcqv.
rqjfocnf.cnbc.eqiib.cfgcqo bcuiqocfc qoybepfgsqocfhqugcnbe?cGnsp
 qso s.bo bcfvrfxpcpbbjb.cpgefoabcgqcnsjtcGnspcgesysfvcgfvwcsocfcgfybeo
nf.cfocsjjbopbcsokvubo bcqocnsjcsocnspcvfgbecf gsqo;cfpcgnquancgnbebcnf.
ebfvvxchbbocsocsgcpqjbgnsoaciebqe.fsob.,cpqjbcaus.soacnsogtttt

*****

QocebgueosoackeqjcgnbcNfxcJfewbgcnbckvuoacnsjpbvkcqocgnbcpqkfcfo.cpfg
kqecfcrnqvbcnquecrsgnqugcpgseesoatcJbfornsvbcsgcaqgc.few;cnbcnf.coq
 fo.vbcfo.,cso.bb.,csgc.s.coqgcq  uecgqcnsjcgqcvsangcuitcNbc quv.cobybe
eb qvvb gcrnbgnbecnbcnf.chbbocgnsowsoacfhqugcfoxgnsoacfgcgnfgcgsjbtcFg
vfpgcnbcrfpc qop squpcqkcnspckqejbeckbybecfo.cpnsybesoa,cfo.cnbcebfvspb.
rsgncebvsbkcgnfgcnbc quv.cvsbc.qrocqocgnbcpqkftcPqqocnbfyx,cvbf.bocpvbbi
 fjbcqybecnsj,cfpcsgcrbebc eupnsoacnsjt

Nbcpvbigcfocbdgefqe.sofesvxcvqoacgsjbcfo.crsgnqugc.ebfjsoatcOfpgfpxf,
 qjsoacsogqcnspceqqjcfgcgbocq’ vq wcgnbcobdgcjqeosoa,cnf.c.skks uvgx
socequpsoacnsjtcPnbchequangcnsjcsocgbfcfo.chebf.tcGnbcgbfcrfpcfafsocgnb
pb qo.chebrcfo.cfafsocsocnbecqrocgbf-iqgt

“Jxcaqq.obpp,cnqrcnbcpvbbip!”cpnbc esb.cso.saofogvxtc“Fo.cnbcspcfvrfxp
fpvbbit”

NbcaqgcuicrsgncfocbkkqegtcNspcnbf.cf nb.,cnbcpgqq.cui,cgqqwcfcgueocso
nspcafeebgcfo.cpfowchf wcqocgnbcpqkfcfafsot

“Aqsoacgqcpvbbicfafso,”c esb.cOfpgfpxftc“Febcxqucsvv,cbn?”

Nbcjf.bcoqcebivxt

“.qcxqucrfogcpqjbcgbf?”

“Fkgberfe.p,”cnbcpfs.crsgncfocbkkqeg,c vqpsoacnspcbxbpcfafsocfo.cgueosoa
gqcgnbcrfvvt

Ofpgfpxfcpgqq.cqybecnsjt

“Ibenfipcnbcebfvvxcspcsvv,”cpnbcpfs.,cgueob.cfo.crbogcqugtcPnbc fjbcso
fafsocfgcgrqcq’ vq wcrsgncpquitcNbcrfpcvxsoacfpchbkqebtcGnbcgbfcpgqq.
uogqu nb.tcOfpgfpxfckbvgciqpsgsybvxcqkkbo.b.cfo.chbafocrefgnkuvvx
equpsoacnsjt

“Rnxcfebcxqucvxsoacvswbcfcvqa?”cpnbcpnqugb.,cvqqwsoacfgcnsjcrsgn
ebiuvpsqot

Nbcaqgcui,cfo.cpfgc.qrocfafso,chugcpfs.coqgnsoacfo.cpgfeb.cfgcgnbckvqqet

“Febcxqucsvvcqecoqg?”cfpwb.cOfpgfpxfcfo.cfafsoceb bsyb.coqcfoprbet
“Xqu’.chbggbecaqcqugcfo.cabgcfchebfgncqkcfse,”cpnbcpfs.cfkgbecfcifupbt
“Rsvvcxqucbfgcsgcqecoqg?”

“Fkgberfe.p,”cnbcpfs.crbfwvxtc“Xquc focaqt”

Fo.cnbcjqgsqob.cnbecqugt

Pnbcebjfsob.cfcvsggvbcvqoabe,cvqqwb.cfgcnsjcrsgnc qjifppsqocfo.crbog
qugt

Fckbrcjsougbpcfkgberfe.p,cnbcefspb.cnspcbxbpcfo.cvqqwb.ckqecfcvqoacrnsvb
fgcgnbcgbfcfo.cgnbcpquitcGnbocnbcgqqwcgnbchebf.,cgqqwcuicfcpiqqocfo.
hbafocgqcbfgt

Nbcfgbcfcvsggvb,cgnebbcqeckquecpiqqokuvp,crsgnqugcfiibgsgb,cfpcsgcrbeb
jb nfos fvvxtcNspcnbf.cf nb.cvbpptcFkgbecnspcjbfvcnbcpgebg nb.cnsjpbvk
qocgnbcpqkfcfafso,chugcoqrcnbc quv.coqgcpvbbi;cnbcvfxcrsgnqugcpgseesoa,
rsgncnspckf bcsocgnbcisvvqrtcNbcrfpcnfuogb.chxc.fx-.ebfjpcfo.cpu n
pgefoabc.fx-.ebfjp;csocqob,cgnfgcwbigceb ueesoa,cnbckfo sb.cgnfgcnbcrfp
socFkes f,csocBaxig,csocpqjbcpqegcqkcqfpsptcGnbc fefyfocrfpcebpgsoa,
gnbc fjbvpcrbebcibf bkuvvxcvxsoac.qro;cgnbcifvjpcpgqq.cfvvcfequo.csocf
 qjivbgbc se vb;cfvvcgnbcifegxcrbebcfgc.soobetcHugcnbcrfpc.esowsoacrfgbe
keqjcfcpiesoacrns nckvqrb.caueavsoac vqpbchxtcFo.csgcrfpcpqc qqv,csgcrfp
rqo.bekuv,crqo.bekuv,chvub,c qv.crfgbeceuoosoacfjqoacgnbcifegs- qvqueb.
pgqobpcfo.cqybecgnbc vbfocpfo.crns ncavspgbob.cnbebcfo.cgnbebcvswb
aqv.ttttcPu..bovxcnbcnbfe.cfc vq wcpgeswbtcNbcpgfegb.,cequpb.cnsjpbvk,
efspb.cnspcnbf.,cvqqwb.cqugcqkcgnbcrso.qr,cfo.cpbbsoacnqrcvfgbcsgcrfp,
pu..bovxcmujib.cuicrs.bcfrfwbcfpcgnquancpqjbqobcnf.ciuvvb.cnsjcqkkcgnb
pqkftcNbc ebigcqocgsigqbcgqcgnbc.qqe,cpgbfvgnsvxcqibob.csgcfo.chbafo
vspgbosoacqocgnbcpgfse fpbtcNspcnbfegchbfgcgbeeshvxtcHugcfvvcrfpclusbg
qocgnbcpgfsepcfpcskcbybexqobcrfpcfpvbbittttcSgcpbbjb.cgqcnsjcpgefoabcfo.
jqopgequpcgnfgcnbc quv.cnfybcpvbigcsocpu nckqeabgkuvobppckeqjcgnb
iebysqupc.fxcfo.cnf.c.qobcoqgnsoa,cnf.ciebifeb.coqgnsoacxbgttttcFo.
jbfornsvbcibenfipcsgcnf.cpgeu wcpsdtcFo.cnspc.eqrpsobppcfo.cpguibkf gsqo
rbebckqvvqrb.chxcfocbdgefqe.sofex,ckbybespn,cfpcsgcrbebc.spgef gb.
nfpgbtcHugcgnbciebifefgsqopcgqchbcjf.bcrbebckbrtcNbc qo bogefgb.cfvvcnsp
bobeasbpcqocgnsowsoacqkcbybexgnsoacfo.ckqeabggsoacoqgnsoa;cfo.cnspcnbfeg
wbigchbfgsoacfo.cgnujisoacpqcgnfgcnbc quv.cnfe.vxchebfgnbtcKsepgcnbcnf.
gqcjfwbcfcoqqpbcfo.cpbrcsgcsogqcnspcqybe qfg--fcrqewcqkcfcjqjbogtcNb
eujjfab.cuo.becnspcisvvqrcfo.cis wb.cqugcfjqoapgcgnbcvsobocpgukkb.cfrfx
uo.becsg,cfcrqeocqug,cqv.cuorfpnb.cpnsegtcKeqjcsgpcefapcnbcgqebcfcvqoa
pgesi,cfc quivbcqkcso nbpcrs.bcfo.cfhqugcpsdgbbocso nbpcvqoatcNbckqv.b.
gnspcpgesicsocgrq,cgqqwcqkkcnspcrs.b,cpgeqoacpujjbecqybe qfgcqkcpqjb
pgqugc qggqocjfgbesfvc(nspcqovxcqugbecafejbog)cfo.chbafocpbrsoacgnbcgrq
bo.pcqkcgnbcefacqocgnbcsops.b,cuo.becgnbcvbkgcfejnqvbtcNspcnfo.pcpnqqw
fpcnbcpbrb.,chugcnbc.s.csgcpu  bppkuvvxcpqcgnfgcoqgnsoacpnqrb.cqugps.b
rnbocnbciugcgnbc qfgcqocfafsotcGnbcobb.vbcfo.cgnebf.cnbcnf.caqgcebf.x
vqoachbkqebcfo.cgnbxcvfxcqocnspcgfhvbcsocfcisb bcqkcifibetcFpckqecgnb
oqqpb,csgcrfpcfcybexcsoabosqupc.bys bcqkcnspcqro;cgnbcoqqpbcrfpcsogbo.b.
kqecgnbcfdbtcSgcrfpcsjiqppshvbckqecnsjcgqc feexcgnbcfdbcgnequancgnb
pgebbgcsocnspcnfo.ptcFo.cskcns..bocuo.becnspc qfgcnbcrquv.cpgsvvcnfyb
nf.cgqcpuiiqegcsgcrsgncnspcnfo.,crns ncrquv.cnfybchbbocoqgs bfhvbtcOqr
nbcnf.cqovxcgqciugcgnbcnbf.cqkcgnbcfdbcsocgnbcoqqpb,cfo.csgcrquv.cnfoa
lusbgvxcuo.becnspcfejcqocgnbcsops.btcIuggsoacnspcnfo.csocnspc qfg
iq wbg,cnbc quv.cnqv.cgnbcbo.cqkcgnbcnfo.vbcfvvcgnbcrfx,cpqcgnfgcsgc.s.
oqgcprsoa;cfo.cfpcgnbc qfgcrfpcybexckuvv,cfcebauvfecpf wcsockf g,csg
 quv.coqgchbcpbbockeqjcqugps.bcgnfgcnbcrfpcnqv.soacpqjbgnsoacrsgncgnb
nfo.cgnfgcrfpcsocgnbciq wbgtcGnspcoqqpb,cgqq,cnbcnf.c.bpsaob.cf
kqegosangchbkqebt

Rnbocnbcnf.cksospnb.crsgncgnsp,cnbcgneupgcnspcnfo.csogqcfcvsggvbcqibosoa
hbgrbbocnspcpqkfcfo.cgnbckvqqe,ckujhvb.csocgnbcvbkgc qeobecfo.c.ebrcqug
gnbc_ivb.ab_,crns ncnbcnf.caqgcebf.xcvqoachbkqebcfo.cns..bocgnbebtcGnsp
ivb.abcrfp,cnqrbybe,cqovxcfcpjqqgnvxcivfob.cisb bcqkcrqq.cgnbcpszbcfo.
gns wobppcqkcfcpsvybec safebggbc fpbtcNbcis wb.cuicgnspcisb bcqkcrqq.
socqobcqkcnspcrfo.besoapcsocfc quegxfe.crnbebcgnbebcrfpcpqjbcpqegcqk
fcrqewpnqitcFkgberfe.pcnbcnf.cf..b.cgqcgnbcrqq.cfcgnsocpjqqgncisb b
qkcseqo,crns ncnbcnf.cfvpqcis wb.cuicfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcsocgnbcpgebbgt
Iuggsoacgnbcseqocrns ncrfpcfcvsggvbcgnbcpjfvvbecqocgnbcisb bcqkcrqq.,
nbckfpgbob.cgnbjcybexcksejvx,c eqppsoacfo.ceb- eqppsoacgnbcgnebf.cequo.
gnbj;cgnbocrefiib.cgnbjc febkuvvxcfo.c.fsogsvxcsoc vbfocrnsgbcifibecfo.
gsb.cuicgnbcife bvcpqcgnfgcsgcrquv.chbcybexc.skks uvgcgqcuogsbcsgtcGnsp
rfpcsocqe.becgqc.sybegcgnbcfggbogsqocqkcgnbcqv.crqjfockqecfcgsjb,crnsvb
pnbcrfpcgexsoacgqcuo.qcgnbcwoqg,cfo.cpqcgqcafsocfcjqjbogtcGnbcseqocpgesi
rfpcf..b.cgqcasybcrbsang,cpqcgnfgcgnbcrqjfocjsangcoqgcaubppcgnbcksepg
jsougbcgnfgcgnbc“gnsoa”crfpcjf.bcqkcrqq.tcFvvcgnspcnf.chbbocpgqeb.chx
nsjchbkqebnfo.cuo.becgnbcpqkftcNbcnf.cqovxcmupgcaqgcgnbcivb.abcqugcrnbo
nbcnbfe.cpqjbqobcpu..bovxcfhqugcsocgnbcxfe.t

“Sgcpgeu wcpsdcvqoacfaqt”

“Vqoacfaq!cJxcAq.!”

Nbceupnb.cgqcgnbc.qqe,cvspgbob.,c fuangcuicnspcnfgcfo.chbafocgqc.bp bo.
nspcgnsegbbocpgbipc fugsqupvx,coqspbvbppvx,cvswbcfc fgtcNbcnf.cpgsvvcgnb
jqpgcsjiqegfogcgnsoacgqc.q--gqcpgbfvcgnbcfdbckeqjcgnbcwsg nbotcGnfgcgnb
.bb.cjupgchbc.qobcrsgncfocfdbcnbcnf.c.b s.b.cvqoacfaqtcNbcnf.cfvpqcf
iq wbgcieuosoa-woskb,chugcnbc quv.coqgcebvxcqocgnbcwoskbcfo.cpgsvvcvbpp
qocnspcqrocpgeboagn,cfo.cpqcebpqvyb.cksofvvxcqocgnbcfdbtcRbcjfxcoqgbcso
ifppsoa,cqobcib uvsfesgxcsocebafe.cgqcfvvcgnbcksofvcebpqvugsqopcgfwbochx
nsjcsocgnbcjfggbe;cgnbxcnf.cqobcpgefoabc nfef gbespgs :cgnbcjqebcksofv
gnbxcrbeb,cgnbcjqebcns.bqupcfo.cgnbcjqebcfhpue.cgnbxcfgcqo bchb fjbcso
nspcbxbptcSocpisgbcqkcfvvcnspcfaqospsoacsorfe.cpgeuaavb,cnbcobybeckqe
fcpsoavbcsopgfogcfvvcgnfgcgsjbc quv.chbvsbybcsocgnbc feexsoacqugcqkcnsp
ivfopt

Fo.,cso.bb.,cskcsgcnf.cbybecnfiibob.cgnfgcbybexgnsoacgqcgnbcvbfpgciqsog
 quv.cnfybchbboc qops.beb.cfo.cksofvvxcpbggvb.,cfo.coqcuo begfsogxcqk
foxcwso.cnf.cebjfsob.,cnbcrquv.,csgcpbbjp,cnfybceboquo b.csgcfvv
fpcpqjbgnsoacfhpue.,cjqopgequpcfo.csjiqppshvbtcHugcfcrnqvbcjfppcqk
uopbggvb.ciqsogpcfo.cuo begfsogsbpcebjfsob.tcFpckqecabggsoacgnbcfdb,
gnfgcgeskvsoachupsobppc qpgcnsjcoqcfodsbgx,ckqecoqgnsoac quv.chbcbfpsbet
Ofpgfpxfcrfpc qogsoufvvxcqugcqkcgnbcnqupb,cbpib sfvvxcsocgnbcbybosoap;
pnbcrquv.ceuocsocgqcgnbcobsanhquepcqecgqcfcpnqi,cfo.cfvrfxpcvbkgcgnb
.qqecfmfetcSgcrfpcgnbcqobcgnsoacgnbcvfo.vf.xcrfpcfvrfxpcp qv.soacnbe
fhqugtcFo.cpq,crnbocgnbcgsjbc fjb,cnbcrquv.cqovxcnfybcgqcaqclusbgvxcsogq
gnbcwsg nbocfo.cgqcgfwbcgnbcfdb,cfo.cfocnquecvfgbec(rnbocbybexgnsoa
rfpcqybe)caqcsocfo.ciugcsgchf wcfafsotcHugcgnbpbcrbebc.quhgkuvciqsogpt
Puiiqpsoacnbcebgueob.cfocnquecvfgbecgqciugcsgchf w,cfo.cOfpgfpxfcnf.
 qjbchf wcfo.crfpcqocgnbcpiqgtcNbcrquv.cqkc quepbcnfybcgqcaqchxcfo.crfsg
gsvvcpnbcrbogcqugcfafsotcHugcpuiiqpsoacpnbcrbebcsocgnbcjbfogsjbcgqcjspp
gnbcfdb,cvqqwckqecsg,cjfwbcfocqug ex--gnfgcrquv.cjbfocpupis sqocqecfg
vbfpgcaequo.pckqecpupis sqot

Hugcgnqpbcrbebcfvvcgeskvbpcrns ncnbcnf.coqgcbybochbauocgqc qops.be,cfo.
so.bb.cnbcnf.coqcgsjbtcNbcrfpcgnsowsoacqkcgnbc nsbkciqsog,cfo.ciugcqkk
geskvsoac.bgfsvp,cuogsvc_nbc quv.chbvsbybcsocsgcfvv_tcHugcgnfgcpbbjb.
uggbevxcuofggfsofhvbtcPqcsgcpbbjb.cgqcnsjpbvkcfgcvbfpgtcNbc quv.coqg
sjfasob,ckqecsopgfo b,cgnfgcnbcrquv.cpqjbgsjbcvbfybcqkkcgnsowsoa,cabg
uicfo.cpsjivxcaqcgnbebttttcBybocnspcvfgbcbdibesjbogc(stbtcnspcyspsgcrsgn
gnbcqhmb gcqkcfcksofvcpueybxcqkcgnbcivf b)crfpcpsjivxcfocfggbjigcfg
focbdibesjbog,ckfeckeqjchbsoacgnbcebfvcgnsoa,cfpcgnquancqobcpnquv.cpfx
“ qjb,cvbgcupcaqcfo.cgexcsg--rnxc.ebfjcfhqugcsg!”--fo.cfgcqo bcnb
nf.cheqwboc.qrocfo.cnf.ceuocfrfxc uepsoa,csocfckebozxcrsgncnsjpbvkt
Jbfornsvbcsgcrquv.cpbbj,cfpcebafe.pcgnbcjqefvclubpgsqo,cgnfgcnsp
fofvxpspcrfpc qjivbgb;cnspc fpuspgexcnf.chb qjbcwbbocfpcfcefzqe,cfo.cnb
 quv.coqgckso.cefgsqofvcqhmb gsqopcsocnsjpbvktcHugcsocgnbcvfpgcebpqeg
nbcpsjivxc bfpb.cgqchbvsbybcsocnsjpbvk,cfo.c.qaab.vx,cpvfyspnvxcpquang
feaujbogpcsocfvvc.seb gsqop,ckujhvsoackqecgnbj,cfpcgnquancpqjbqobcrbeb
kqe soacfo.c.efrsoacnsjcgqcsgt

Fgcksepg--vqoachbkqebcso.bb.--nbcnf.chbbocju ncq  uisb.crsgncqob
lubpgsqo;crnxcfvjqpgcfvvc esjbpcfebcpqchf.vxc qo bfvb.cfo.cpqcbfpsvx
.bgb gb.,cfo.crnxcfvjqpgcfvvc esjsofvpcvbfybcpu ncqhysqupcgef bp?cNb
nf.c qjbcaef.ufvvxcgqcjfoxc.skkbebogcfo.c uesqupc qo vupsqop,cfo.csocnsp
qisosqocgnbc nsbkcebfpqocvfxcoqgcpqcju ncsocgnbcjfgbesfvcsjiqppshsvsgx
qkc qo bfvsoacgnbc esjb,cfpcsocgnbc esjsofvcnsjpbvktcFvjqpgcbybex
 esjsofvcspcpuhmb gcgqcfckfsvuebcqkcrsvvcfo.cebfpqosoaciqrbechxcf
 nsv.spncfo.cinboqjbofvcnbb.vbppobpp,cfgcgnbcybexcsopgfogcrnbocieu.bo b
fo.c fugsqocfebcjqpgcbppbogsfvtcSgcrfpcnspc qoys gsqocgnfgcgnspcb vsipb
qkcebfpqocfo.ckfsvuebcqkcrsvvciqrbecfggf wb.cfcjfocvswbcfc.spbfpb,
.bybvqib.caef.ufvvxcfo.cebf nb.csgpcnsanbpgciqsogcmupgchbkqebcgnb
ibeibgefgsqocqkcgnbc esjb,c qogsoub.crsgncblufvcysqvbo bcfgcgnbcjqjbog
qkcgnbc esjbcfo.ckqecvqoabecqecpnqegbecgsjbcfkgbe,cf  qe.soacgqcgnb
so.sys.ufvc fpb,cfo.cgnbocifppb.cqkkcvswbcfoxcqgnbec.spbfpbtcGnb
lubpgsqocrnbgnbecgnbc.spbfpbcasybpcespbcgqcgnbc esjb,cqecrnbgnbecgnb
 esjbckeqjcsgpcqrocib uvsfecofguebcspcfvrfxpcf  qjifosb.chxcpqjbgnsoacqk
gnbcofguebcqkc.spbfpb,cnbc.s.coqgcxbgckbbvcfhvbcgqc.b s.bt

Rnbocnbcebf nb.cgnbpbc qo vupsqop,cnbc.b s.b.cgnfgcsocnspcqroc fpbcgnbeb
 quv.coqgchbcpu ncfcjqehs.cebf gsqo,cgnfgcnspcebfpqocfo.crsvvcrquv.
ebjfsocuosjifseb.cfgcgnbcgsjbcqkc feexsoacqugcnspc.bpsao,ckqecgnb
psjivbcebfpqocgnfgcnspc.bpsaocrfpc“oqgcfc esjbtttt”cRbcrsvvcqjsgcfvvcgnb
ieq bppchxcjbfopcqkcrns ncnbcfeesyb.cfgcgnspcvfpgc qo vupsqo;crbcnfyb
euocgqqckfecfnbf.cfvebf.xttttcRbcjfxcf..cqovxcgnfgcgnbcief gs fv,ciuebvx
jfgbesfvc.skks uvgsbpcqkcgnbcfkkfsecq  uisb.cfcpb qo.fexciqpsgsqocsocnsp
jso.tc“Qobcnfpchugcgqcwbbicfvvcqob’pcrsvv-iqrbecfo.cebfpqocgqc.bfv
rsgncgnbj,cfo.cgnbxcrsvvcfvvchbcqybe qjbcfgcgnbcgsjbcrnbocqo bcqobcnfp
kfjsvsfespb.cqobpbvkcrsgncgnbcjsougbpgc.bgfsvpcqkcgnbchupsobpptttt”cHug
gnspciebifefgsqocnf.cobybechbbochbauotcNspcksofvc.b spsqopcrbebcrnfgcnb
 fjbcgqcgeupgcvbfpg,cfo.crnbocgnbcnquecpgeu w,csgcfvvc fjbcgqcifppclusgb
.skkbebogvx,cfpcsgcrbebcf  s.bogfvvxcfo.cuobdib gb.vxt

Qobcgeskvsoac se ujpgfo bcuipbgcnspc fv uvfgsqop,chbkqebcnbcnf.cbybo
vbkgcgnbcpgfse fpbtcRnbocnbcebf nb.cgnbcvfo.vf.x’pcwsg nbo,cgnbc.qqe
qkcrns ncrfpcqibocfpcupufv,cnbcavfo b.c fugsqupvxcsocgqcpbbcrnbgnbe,cso
Ofpgfpxf’pcfhpbo b,cgnbcvfo.vf.xcnbepbvkcrfpcgnbeb,cqecskcoqg,crnbgnbe
gnbc.qqecgqcnbecqroceqqjcrfpc vqpb.,cpqcgnfgcpnbcjsangcoqgcibbicqugcrnbo
nbcrbogcsockqecgnbcfdbtcHugcrnfgcrfpcnspcfjfzbjbogcrnbocnbcpu..bovx
pfrcgnfgcOfpgfpxfcrfpcoqgcqovxcfgcnqjbcsocgnbcwsg nbo,chugcrfpcq  uisb.
gnbeb,cgfwsoacvsobocqugcqkcfchfpwbgcfo.cnfoasoacsgcqocfcvsobtcPbbsoa
nsj,cpnbcvbkgcqkkcnfoasoacgnbc vqgnbp,cgueob.cgqcnsjcfo.cpgfeb.cfgcnsj
fvvcgnbcgsjbcnbcrfpcifppsoatcNbcgueob.cfrfxcnspcbxbp,cfo.crfvwb.cifpgcfp
gnquancnbcoqgs b.coqgnsoatcHugcsgcrfpcgnbcbo.cqkcbybexgnsoa;cnbcnf.coqg
gnbcfdb!cNbcrfpcqybernbvjb.t

“Rnfgcjf.bcjbcgnsow,”cnbcebkvb gb.,cfpcnbcrbogcuo.becgnbcafgbrfx,c“rnfg
jf.bcjbcgnsowcgnfgcpnbcrquv.chbcpuebcoqgcgqchbcfgcnqjbcfgcgnfgcjqjbog!
Rnx,crnx,crnxc.s.cScfppujbcgnspcpqc begfsovx?”

Nbcrfpc eupnb.cfo.cbybocnujsvsfgb.tcNbc quv.cnfybcvfuanb.cfgcnsjpbvkcso
nspcfoabettttcFc.uvvcfosjfvcefabchqsvb.crsgnsocnsjt

Nbcpgqq.cnbpsgfgsoacsocgnbcafgbrfxtcGqcaqcsogqcgnbcpgebbg,cgqcaqcfcrfvw
kqecfiibfefo b’cpfwbcrfpcebyqvgsoa;cgqcaqchf wcgqcnspceqqj,cbybocjqeb
ebyqvgsoatc“Fo.crnfgcfc nfo bcScnfybcvqpgckqecbybe!”cnbcjuggbeb.,
pgfo.soacfsjvbppvxcsocgnbcafgbrfx,cmupgcqiiqpsgbcgnbciqegbe’pcvsggvb
.fewceqqj,crns ncrfpcfvpqcqibotcPu..bovxcnbcpgfegb.tcKeqjcgnbciqegbe’p
eqqj,cgrqcif bpcfrfxckeqjcnsj,cpqjbgnsoacpnsosoacuo.becgnbchbo ncgqcgnb
esangc fuangcnspcbxbttttcNbcvqqwb.cfhqugcnsj--oqhq.xtcNbcfiieqf nb.cgnb
eqqjcqocgsigqb,crbogc.qrocgrqcpgbipcsogqcsgcfo.csocfckfsogcyqs bc fvvb.
gnbciqegbetc“Xbp,coqgcfgcnqjb!cPqjbrnbebcobfecgnquan,csocgnbcxfe.,ckqe
gnbc.qqecspcrs.bcqibot”cNbc.fpnb.cgqcgnbcfdbc(sgcrfpcfocfdb)cfo.ciuvvb.
sgcqugckeqjcuo.becgnbchbo n,crnbebcsgcvfxchbgrbbocgrqc nuowpcqkcrqq.;
fgcqo b,chbkqebcaqsoacqug,cnbcjf.bcsgckfpgcsocgnbcoqqpb,cnbcgneupgchqgn
nfo.pcsogqcnspciq wbgpcfo.crbogcqugcqkcgnbceqqj;coqcqobcnf.coqgs b.cnsj!
“Rnbocebfpqockfsvp,cgnbc.bysvcnbvip!”cnbcgnquangcrsgncfcpgefoabcaesot
Gnspc nfo bcefspb.cnspcpisesgpcbdgefqe.sofesvxt

Nbcrfvwb.cfvqoaclusbgvxcfo.cpb.fgbvx,crsgnqugcnueex,cgqcfyqs.cfrfwbosoa
pupis sqotcNbcp fe bvxcvqqwb.cfgcgnbcifppbep-hx,cgesb.cgqcbp fibcvqqwsoa
fgcgnbseckf bpcfgcfvv,cfo.cgqchbcfpcvsggvbcoqgs bfhvbcfpciqppshvbt
Pu..bovxcnbcgnquangcqkcnspcnfgtc“Aqq.cnbfybop!cScnf.cgnbcjqobxcgnbc.fx
hbkqebcxbpgbe.fxcfo.c.s.coqgcabgcfc ficgqcrbfecsopgbf.!”cFc uepbceqpb
keqjcgnbchqggqjcqkcnspcpquvt

Avfo soacqugcqkcgnbc qeobecqkcnspcbxbcsogqcfcpnqi,cnbcpfrchxcfc vq wcqo
gnbcrfvvcgnfgcsgcrfpcgbocjsougbpcifpgcpbybotcNbcnf.cgqcjfwbcnfpgbcfo.cfg
gnbcpfjbcgsjbcgqcaqcpqjbrfxcequo.,cpqcfpcgqcfiieqf ncgnbcnqupbckeqjcgnb
qgnbecps.btttt

Rnbocnbcnf.cnfiibob.cgqcsjfasobcfvvcgnspchbkqebnfo.,cnbcnf.cpqjbgsjbp
gnquangcgnfgcnbcrquv.chbcybexcju ncfkefs.tcHugcnbcrfpcoqgcybexcju n
fkefs.coqr,crfpcoqgcfkefs.cfgcfvv,cso.bb.tcNspcjso.crfpcbybocq  uisb.
hxcseebvbyfogcjfggbep,chugchxcoqgnsoackqecvqoatcFpcnbcifppb.cgnbcXupuiqy
afe.bo,cnbcrfpc.bbivxcfhpqehb.csoc qops.besoacgnbchusv.soacqkcaebfg
kquogfsop,cfo.cqkcgnbsecebkebpnsoacbkkb gcqocgnbcfgjqpinbebcsocfvv
gnbcplufebptcHxc.baebbpcnbcifppb.cgqcgnbc qoys gsqocgnfgcskcgnbcpujjbe
afe.bocrbebcbdgbo.b.cgqcgnbcksbv.cqkcJfep,cfo.cibenfipcmqsob.cgqcgnb
afe.bocqkcgnbcJsnfsvqypwxcIfvf b,csgcrquv.chbcfcpivbo.s.cgnsoacfo.cf
aebfgchbobksgcgqcgnbcgqrotcGnbocnbcrfpcsogbebpgb.chxcgnbclubpgsqocrnx
socfvvcaebfgcgqropcjbocfebcoqgcpsjivxc.esybochxcob bppsgx,chugcsocpqjb
ib uvsfecrfxcso vsob.cgqcvsybcsocgnqpbcifegpcqkcgnbcgqrocrnbebcgnbeb
febcoqcafe.bopcoqeckquogfsop;crnbebcgnbebcspcjqpgc.segcfo.cpjbvvcfo.cfvv
pqegpcqkcofpgsobpptcGnbocnspcqrocrfvwpcgnequancgnbcNfxcJfewbgc fjbchf w
gqcnspcjso.,cfo.ckqecfcjqjbogcnbcrfwb.cuicgqcebfvsgxtc“Rnfgcoqopbopb!”
cnbcgnquang,c“hbggbecgnsowcqkcoqgnsoacfgcfvv!”

“Pqcieqhfhvxcjbocvb.cgqcbdb ugsqoc vug ncjbogfvvxcfgcbybexcqhmb gcgnfg
jbbgpcgnbjcqocgnbcrfx,”ckvfpnb.cgnequancnspcjso.,chugcpsjivxckvfpnb.,
vswbcvsangosoa;cnbcjf.bcnfpgbcgqc.spjsppcgnspcgnquangttttcFo.chxcoqr
nbcrfpcobfe;cnbebcrfpcgnbcnqupb,cnbebcrfpcgnbcafgbtcPu..bovxcfc vq w
pqjbrnbebcpgeu wcqo btc“Rnfg!c focsgchbcnfvk-ifpgcpbybo?cSjiqppshvb,csg
jupgchbckfpg!”

Vu wsvxckqecnsj,cbybexgnsoacrbogcrbvvcfafsocfgcgnbcafgbptcFgcgnfgcybex
jqjbog,cfpcgnquancbdiebppvxckqecnspchbobksg,cfcnuabcrfaaqocqkcnfxcnf.
mupgc.esybocsocfgcgnbcafgb,c qjivbgbvxcp ebbosoacnsjcfpcnbcifppb.cuo.be
gnbcafgbrfx,cfo.cgnbcrfaaqocnf.cp fe bvxcnf.cgsjbcgqc.esybcgnequancsogq
gnbcxfe.,chbkqebcnbcnf.cpvsiib.csocfckvfpncgqcgnbcesangtcQocgnbcqgnbe
ps.bcqkcgnbcrfaaqocnbc quv.cnbfecpnqugsoacfo.clufeebvvsoa;chugcoqcqob
oqgs b.cnsjcfo.coqcqobcjbgcnsjtcJfoxcrso.qrpcvqqwsoacsogqcgnfgcnuab
luf.efoauvfecxfe.crbebcqibocfgcgnfgcjqjbog,chugcnbc.s.coqgcefspbcnsp
nbf.--nbcnf.coqgcgnbcpgeboagncgqtcGnbcpgfse fpbcvbf.soacgqcgnbcqv.
rqjfo’pceqqjcrfpc vqpbchx,cmupgcqocgnbcesangcqkcgnbcafgbrfxtcNbcrfp
fvebf.xcqocgnbcpgfseptttt

.efrsoacfchebfgn,ciebppsoacnspcnfo.cfafsopgcnspcgneqhhsoacnbfeg,cfo.
qo bcjqebckbbvsoackqecgnbcfdbcfo.cpbggsoacsgcpgefsang,cnbchbafocpqkgvx
fo.c fugsqupvxcfp bo.soacgnbcpgfsep,cvspgbosoacbybexcjsougbtcHugcgnb
pgfsep,cgqq,crbebclusgbc.bpbegb.;cfvvcgnbc.qqepcrbebcpnug;cnbcjbgcoq
qobtcQobckvfgcso.bb.cqocgnbcksepgckvqqecrfpcrs.bcqibocfo.cifsogbepcrbeb
fgcrqewcsocsg,chugcgnbxc.s.coqgcavfo bcfgcnsjtcNbcpgqq.cpgsvv,cgnquang
fcjsougbcfo.crbogcqotc“Qkc quepbcsgcrquv.chbchbggbecskcgnbxcnf.coqgchbbo
nbeb,chugtttcsg’pcgrqcpgqebxpcfhqybcgnbjt”

Fo.cgnbebcrfpcgnbckquegncpgqebx,cnbebcrfpcgnbc.qqe,cnbebcrfpcgnb
kvfgcqiiqpsgb,cgnbcbjigxcqobtcGnbckvfgcuo.beobfgncgnbcqv.crqjfo’pcrfp
fiifebogvxcbjigxcfvpq;cgnbcyspsgsoac fe.cofsvb.cqocgnbc.qqecnf.chbbo
gqeocqkk--gnbxcnf.caqobcfrfx!tttcNbcrfpcqugcqkchebfgntcKqecqobcsopgfog
gnbcgnquangckvqfgb.cgnequancnspcjso.c“PnfvvcScaqchf w?”cHugcnbcjf.bcoq
foprbecfo.chbafocvspgbosoacfgcgnbcqv.crqjfo’pc.qqe,cfc.bf.cpsvbo btcGnbo
nbcvspgbob.cfafsocqocgnbcpgfse fpb,cvspgbob.cvqoacfo.csogbogvxttt
gnbocvqqwb.cfhqugcnsjckqecgnbcvfpgcgsjb,ciuvvb.cnsjpbvkcgqabgnbe,c.ebr
nsjpbvkcui,cfo.cqo bcjqebcgesb.cgnbcfdbcsocgnbcoqqpbtc“FjcScybexcifvb?”
cnbcrqo.beb.tc“FjcScoqgcbys.bogvxcfasgfgb.?cPnbcspcjspgeupgkuvttttcNf.cS
hbggbecrfsgcfcvsggvbcvqoabetttcgsvvcjxcnbfegcvbfybpcqkkcgnujisoa?”

Hugcnspcnbfegc.s.coqgcvbfybcqkktcQocgnbc qogefex,cfpcgnquancgqcpisgb
nsj,csgcgneqhhb.cjqebcfo.cjqebcysqvbogvxtcNbc quv.cpgfo.csgcoqcvqoabe,
nbcpvqrvxciugcqugcnspcnfo.cgqcgnbchbvvcfo.cefoatcNfvkcfcjsougbcvfgbecnb
efoacfafso,cjqebcvqu.vxt

OqcfoprbetcGqcaqcqocesoasoacrfpcupbvbppcfo.cqugcqkcivf btcGnbcqv.crqjfo
rfp,cqkc quepb,cfgcnqjb,chugcpnbcrfpcpupis squpcfo.cfvqobtcNbcnf.cpqjb
woqrvb.abcqkcnbecnfhsgptttcfo.cqo bcjqebcnbciugcnspcbfecgqcgnbc.qqet
Bsgnbecnspcpbopbpcrbebcib uvsfevxcwbboc(rns ncsgcspc.skks uvgcgq
puiiqpb),cqecgnbcpquo.crfpcebfvvxcybexc.spgso gtcFoxrfx,cnbcpu..bovx
nbfe.cpqjbgnsoacvswbcgnbc fugsqupcgqu ncqkcfcnfo.cqocgnbcvq wcfo.cgnb
eupgvbcqkcfcpwsegcfgcgnbcybexc.qqetcPqjbqobcrfpcpgfo.soacpgbfvgnsvx
 vqpbcgqcgnbcvq wcfo.cmupgcfpcnbcrfpc.qsoacqocgnbcqugps.bcrfpcpb ebgvx
vspgbosoacrsgnso,cfo.cpbbjb.cgqcnfybcnbecbfecgqcgnbc.qqettttcNbcjqyb.
fcvsggvbcqociueiqpbcfo.cjuggbeb.cpqjbgnsoacfvqu.cgnfgcnbcjsangcoqgcnfyb
gnbcfiibfefo bcqkcns.soa,cgnbocefoacfcgnse.cgsjb,chugclusbgvx,cpqhbevx,
fo.crsgnqugcsjifgsbo b,cEb fvvsoacsgcfkgberfe.p,cgnfgcjqjbogcpgqq.cqug
socnspcjso.cysys.vx,c.spgso gvx,ckqecbybe;cnbc quv.coqgcjfwbcqugcnqrcnb
nf.cnf.cpu nc uoosoa,ckqecnspcjso.crfpcfpcsgcrbebc vqu.b.cfgcjqjbogpcfo.
nbcrfpcfvjqpgcuo qop squpcqkcnspchq.xttttcFocsopgfogcvfgbecnbcnbfe.cgnb
vfg ncuokfpgbob.t



 NFIGBEcYSS

Gnbc.qqecrfpcfpchbkqebcqibob.cfcgsoxc ef w,cfo.cfafsocgrqcpnfeicfo.
pupis squpcbxbpcpgfeb.cfgcnsjcqugcqkcgnbc.fewobpptcGnbocEfpwqvoswqycvqpg
nspcnbf.cfo.cobfevxcjf.bcfcaebfgcjspgfwbt

Kbfesoacgnbcqv.crqjfocrquv.chbckesangbob.chxcgnbsechbsoacfvqob,cfo.coqg
nqisoacgnfgcgnbcpsangcqkcnsjcrquv.c.spfejcnbecpupis sqop,cnbcgqqw
nqv.cqkcgnbc.qqecfo.c.ebrcsgcgqrfe.pcnsjcgqciebybogcgnbcqv.crqjfockeqj
fggbjigsoacgqcpnugcsgcfafsotcPbbsoacgnspcpnbc.s.coqgciuvvcgnbc.qqechf w,
hugcpnbc.s.coqgcvbgcaqcgnbcnfo.vbcpqcgnfgcnbcfvjqpgc.efaab.cnbecqugcrsgn
sgcqocgqcgnbcpgfseptcPbbsoacgnfgcpnbcrfpcpgfo.soacsocgnbc.qqerfxcoqg
fvvqrsoacnsjcgqcifpp,cnbcf.yfo b.cpgefsangcuiqocnbetcPnbcpgbiib.chf w
socfvfej,cgesb.cgqcpfxcpqjbgnsoa,chugcpbbjb.cuofhvbcgqcpibfwcfo.cpgfeb.
rsgncqibocbxbpcfgcnsjt

“Aqq.cbybosoa,cFvxqofcSyfoqyof,”cnbchbafo,cgexsoacgqcpibfwcbfpsvx,chug
nspcyqs bcrquv.coqgcqhbxcnsj,csgcheqwbcfo.cpnqqwtc“Scnfybc qjbtttcScnfyb
hequangcpqjbgnsoatttchugcrb’.chbggbec qjbcsotttcgqcgnbcvsangtttt”

Fo.cvbfysoacnbe,cnbcifppb.cpgefsangcsogqcgnbceqqjcuosoysgb.tcGnbcqv.
rqjfocefocfkgbecnsj;cnbecgqoaubcrfpcuovqqpb.t

“Aqq.cnbfybop!cRnfgcsgcsp?cRnqcspcsg?cRnfgc.qcxqucrfog?”

“Rnx,cFvxqofcSyfoqyof,cxqucwoqrcjbtttcEfpwqvoswqytttcnbeb,cSchequangcxqu
gnbcivb.abcScieqjspb.cgnbcqgnbec.fxttt”cFo.cnbcnbv.cqugcgnbcivb.abt

Gnbcqv.crqjfocavfo b.ckqecfcjqjbogcfgcgnbcivb.ab,chugcfgcqo bcpgfeb.cso
gnbcbxbpcqkcnbecuosoysgb.cyspsgqetcPnbcvqqwb.csogbogvx,cjfvs squpvxcfo.
jspgeupgkuvvxtcFcjsougbcifppb.;cnbcbybockfo sb.cpqjbgnsoacvswbcfcpobbe
socnbecbxbp,cfpcgnquancpnbcnf.cfvebf.xcaubppb.cbybexgnsoatcNbckbvgcgnfg
nbcrfpcvqpsoacnspcnbf.,cgnfgcnbcrfpcfvjqpgckesangbob.,cpqckesangbob.
gnfgcskcpnbcrbebcgqcvqqwcvswbcgnfgcfo.coqgcpfxcfcrqe.ckqecfoqgnbecnfvk
jsougb,cnbcgnquangcnbcrquv.cnfybceuocfrfxckeqjcnbet

“Rnxc.qcxqucvqqwcfgcjbcfpcgnquancxquc.s.coqgcwoqrcjb?”cnbcpfs.cpu..bovx,
fvpqcrsgncjfvs btc“Gfwbcsgcskcxqucvswb,cskcoqgcS’vvcaqcbvpbrnbeb,cScfj
socfcnueext”

Nbcnf.coqgcbybocgnquangcqkcpfxsoacgnsp,chugcsgcrfpcpu..bovxcpfs.cqk
sgpbvktcGnbcqv.crqjfoceb qybeb.cnbepbvk,cfo.cnbecyspsgqe’pcebpqvugbcgqob
bys.bogvxcebpgqeb.cnbec qoks.bo bt

“Hugcrnx,cjxcaqq.cpse,cfvvcqkcfcjsougbttttcRnfgcspcsg?”cpnbcfpwb.,
vqqwsoacfgcgnbcivb.abt

“Gnbcpsvybec safebggbc fpb;cScpiqwbcqkcsgcvfpgcgsjb,cxqucwoqrt”

Pnbcnbv.cqugcnbecnfo.t

“Hugcnqrcifvbcxqucfeb,cgqchbcpuebtttcfo.cxquecnfo.pcfebcgebjhvsoacgqq?
Nfybcxquchbbochfgnsoa,cqecrnfg?”

“Kbybe,”cnbcfoprbeb.cfheuigvxtc“Xquc fo’gcnbvicabggsoacifvbtttcskcxqu’yb
oqgnsoacgqcbfg,”cnbcf..b.,crsgnc.skks uvgxcfegs uvfgsoacgnbcrqe.pt

NspcpgeboagncrfpckfsvsoacnsjcfafsotcHugcnspcfoprbecpquo.b.cvswbcgnb
geugn;cgnbcqv.crqjfocgqqwcgnbcivb.abt

“Rnfgcspcsg?”cpnbcfpwb.cqo bcjqeb,cp foosoacEfpwqvoswqycsogbogvx,cfo.
rbsansoacgnbcivb.abcsocnbecnfo.t

“Fcgnsoatttc safebggbc fpbttttcPsvybettttcVqqwcfgcsgt”

“Sgc.qbpcoqgcpbbjcpqjbnqrcvswbcpsvybettttcNqrcnbcnfpcrefiib.csgcui!”

Gexsoacgqcuogsbcgnbcpgesoacfo.cgueosoacgqcgnbcrso.qr,cgqcgnbcvsangc(fvv
nbecrso.qrpcrbebcpnug,csocpisgbcqkcgnbcpgskvsoacnbfg),cpnbcvbkg
nsjcfvgqabgnbeckqecpqjbcpb qo.pcfo.cpgqq.crsgncnbechf wcgqcnsjtcNb
uohuggqob.cnspc qfgcfo.ckebb.cgnbcfdbckeqjcgnbcoqqpb,chugc.s.coqgcxbg
gfwbcsgcqugcfvgqabgnbe,cpsjivxcnqv.soacsgcsocnspcesangcnfo.cuo.becgnb
 qfgtcNspcnfo.pcrbebckbfekuvvxcrbfw,cnbckbvgcgnbjcbybexcjqjbogcaeqrsoa
jqebcoujhcfo.cjqebcrqq.botcNbcrfpcfkefs.cnbcrquv.cvbgcgnbcfdbcpvsicfo.
kfvvttttcFcpu..bocas..sobppc fjbcqybecnsjt

“Hugcrnfgcnfpcnbcgsb.csgcuicvswbcgnspckqe?”cgnbcqv.crqjfoc esb.crsgn
ybdfgsqocfo.cjqyb.cgqrfe.pcnsjt

Nbcnf.coqgcfcjsougbcjqebcgqcvqpbtcNbciuvvb.cgnbcfdbclusgbcqug,cpruoa
sgcrsgnchqgncfejp,cp fe bvxc qop squpcqkcnsjpbvk,cfo.cfvjqpgcrsgnqug
bkkqeg,cfvjqpgcjb nfos fvvx,chequangcgnbchvuogcps.bc.qrocqocnbecnbf.tcNb
pbbjb.coqgcgqcupbcnspcqrocpgeboagncsocgnsptcHugcfpcpqqocfpcnbcnf.cqo b
hequangcgnbcfdbc.qro,cnspcpgeboagncebgueob.cgqcnsjt

Gnbcqv.crqjfocrfpcfpcfvrfxpchfebnbf.b.tcNbecgnso,cvsangcnfse,cpgebfwb.
rsgncaebx,cgns wvxcpjbfeb.crsgncaebfpb,crfpcivfsgb.csocfcefg’pcgfsvcfo.
kfpgbob.chxcfcheqwbocnqeoc qjhcrns ncpgqq.cqugcqocgnbcofibcqkcnbecob wt
Fpcpnbcrfpcpqcpnqeg,cgnbchvqrckbvvcqocgnbcybexcgqicqkcnbecpwuvvtcPnb
 esb.cqug,chugcybexckfsogvx,cfo.cpu..bovxcpfowcfvvcqkcfcnbficqocgnb
kvqqe,cefspsoacnbecnfo.pcgqcnbecnbf.tcSocqobcnfo.cpnbcpgsvvcnbv.c“gnb
ivb.abt”cGnbocnbc.bfvgcnbecfoqgnbecfo.cfoqgnbechvqrcrsgncgnbchvuogcps.b
fo.cqocgnbcpfjbcpiqgtcGnbchvqq.caupnb.cfpckeqjcfocqybegueob.cavfpp,cgnb
hq.xckbvvchf wtcNbcpgbiib.chf w,cvbgcsgckfvv,cfo.cfgcqo bchbogcqybecnbe
kf b;cpnbcrfpc.bf.tcNbecbxbpcpbbjb.cgqchbcpgfegsoacqugcqkcgnbsecpq wbgp,
gnbcheqrcfo.cgnbcrnqvbckf bcrbebc.efrocfo.c qogqegb.c qoyuvpsybvxt

Nbcvfs.cgnbcfdbcqocgnbcaequo.cobfecgnbc.bf.chq.xcfo.ckbvgcfgcqo bcsocnbe
iq wbgc(gexsoacgqcfyqs.cgnbcpgebfjsoachq.x)--gnbcpfjbcesang-nfo.ciq wbg
keqjcrns ncpnbcnf.cgfwbocgnbcwbxcqocnspcvfpgcyspsgtcNbcrfpcsockuvv
iqppbppsqocqkcnspckf uvgsbp,ckebbckeqjc qokupsqocqecas..sobpp,chugcnsp
nfo.pcrbebcpgsvvcgebjhvsoatcNbcebjbjhbeb.cfkgberfe.pcgnfgcnbcnf.chbbo
ifegs uvfevxc qvvb gb.cfo.c febkuv,cgexsoacfvvcgnbcgsjbcoqgcgqcabg
pjbfeb.crsgnchvqq.ttttcNbciuvvb.cqugcgnbcwbxpcfgcqo b,cgnbxcrbebcfvv,
fpchbkqeb,csocqobchuo ncqocfcpgbbvcesoatcNbcefocfgcqo bcsogqcgnbchb.eqqj
rsgncgnbjtcSgcrfpcfcybexcpjfvvceqqjcrsgncfcrnqvbcpnesobcqkcnqvxcsjfabpt
Fafsopgcgnbcqgnbecrfvvcpgqq.cfchsachb.,cybexc vbfocfo.c qybeb.crsgn
fcpsvwcifg nrqewcrf..b.clusvgtcFafsopgcfcgnse.crfvvcrfpcfc nbpgcqk
.efrbeptcPgefoabcgqcpfx,cpqcpqqocfpcnbchbafocgqcksgcgnbcwbxpcsogqcgnb
 nbpg,cpqcpqqocfpcnbcnbfe.cgnbsecmsoavsoa,cfc qoyuvpsybcpnu..becifppb.
qybecnsjtcNbcpu..bovxckbvgcgbjigb.cfafsocgqcasybcsgcfvvcuicfo.caq
frfxtcHugcgnfgcrfpcqovxckqecfocsopgfog;csgcrfpcgqqcvfgbcgqcaqchf wt
Nbciqpsgsybvxcpjsvb.cfgcnsjpbvk,crnbocpu..bovxcfoqgnbecgbeeskxsoacs.bf
q  ueeb.cgqcnspcjso.tcNbcpu..bovxckfo sb.cgnfgcgnbcqv.crqjfocjsangchb
pgsvvcfvsybcfo.cjsangceb qybecnbecpbopbptcVbfysoacgnbcwbxpcsocgnbc nbpg,
nbcefochf wcgqcgnbchq.x,cpofg nb.cuicgnbcfdbcfo.cvskgb.csgcqo bcjqeb
qybecgnbcqv.crqjfo,chugc.s.coqgchesoacsgc.qrotcGnbebcrfpcoqc.quhgcgnfg
pnbcrfpc.bf.tcHbo.soac.qrocfo.cbdfjsosoacnbecfafsocjqebc vqpbvx,cnbcpfr
 vbfevxcgnfgcgnbcpwuvvcrfpcheqwbocfo.cbybochfggbeb.csocqocqobcps.btcNb
rfpcfhqugcgqckbbvcsgcrsgncnspcksoabe,chugc.ebrchf wcnspcnfo.cfo.cso.bb.
sgcrfpcbys.bogcrsgnqugcgnfgtcJbfornsvbcgnbebcrfpcfcibekb gciqqvcqk
hvqq.tcFvvcfgcqo bcnbcoqgs b.cfcpgesoacqocnbecob w;cnbcguaab.cfgcsg,chug
gnbcpgesoacrfpcpgeqoacfo.c.s.coqgcpoficfo.chbps.bp,csgcrfpcpqfwb.
rsgnchvqq.tcNbcgesb.cgqciuvvcsgcqugckeqjcgnbckeqogcqkcgnbc.ebpp,chug
pqjbgnsoacnbv.csgcfo.ciebybogb.csgpc qjsoatcSocnspcsjifgsbo bcnbcefspb.
gnbcfdbcfafsocgqc ugcgnbcpgesoackeqjcfhqybcqocgnbchq.x,chugc.s.coqg
.feb,cfo.crsgnc.skks uvgx,cpjbfesoacnspcnfo.cfo.cgnbcfdbcsocgnbchvqq.,
fkgbecgrqcjsougbp’cnueesb.cbkkqeg,cnbc ugcgnbcpgesoacfo.cgqqwcsgcqkk
rsgnqugcgqu nsoacgnbchq.xcrsgncgnbcfdb;cnbcrfpcoqgcjspgfwbo--sgcrfpcf
iuepbtcQocgnbcpgesoacrbebcgrqc eqppbp,cqobcqkc xieupcrqq.cfo.cqobcqk
 qiibe,cfo.cfocsjfabcsocpsvybecksvsaebb,cfo.crsgncgnbjcfcpjfvvcaebfpx
 nfjqspcvbfgnbeciuepbcrsgncfcpgbbvcesjcfo.cesoatcGnbciuepbcrfpcpgukkb.
ybexckuvv;cEfpwqvoswqycgneupgcsgcsocnspciq wbgcrsgnqugcvqqwsoacfgcsg,
kvuoacgnbc eqppbpcqocgnbcqv.crqjfo’pchq.xcfo.ceupnb.chf wcsogqcgnb
hb.eqqj,cgnspcgsjbcgfwsoacgnbcfdbcrsgncnsjt

Nbcrfpcsocgbeeshvbcnfpgb,cnbcpofg nb.cgnbcwbxp,cfo.chbafocgexsoacgnbj
fafsotcHugcnbcrfpcuopu  bppkuvtcGnbxcrquv.coqgcksgcsocgnbcvq wptcSg
rfpcoqgcpqcju ncgnfgcnspcnfo.pcrbebcpnfwsoa,chugcgnfgcnbcwbigcjfwsoa
jspgfwbp;cgnquancnbcpfrckqecsopgfo bcgnfgcfcwbxcrfpcoqgcgnbcesangcqob
fo.crquv.coqgcksg,cpgsvvcnbcgesb.cgqciugcsgcsotcPu..bovxcnbcebjbjhbeb.
fo.cebfvspb.cgnfgcgnbchsacwbxcrsgncgnbc.bbicoqg nbp,crns ncrfpcnfoasoa
gnbebcrsgncgnbcpjfvvcwbxpc quv.coqgciqppshvxchbvqoacgqcgnbc nbpgcqk
.efrbepc(qocnspcvfpgcyspsgcgnspcnf.cpgeu wcnsj),chugcgqcpqjbcpgeqoachqd,
fo.cgnfgcbybexgnsoacibenfipcrfpcns..bocsocgnfgchqdtcNbcvbkgcgnbc nbpg
qkc.efrbep,cfo.cfgcqo bckbvgcuo.becgnbchb.pgbf.,cwoqrsoacgnfgcqv.
rqjbocupufvvxcwbbichqdbpcuo.becgnbsechb.ptcFo.cpqcsgcrfp;cgnbebcrfpcf
aqq.-pszb.chqdcuo.becgnbchb.,cfgcvbfpgcfcxfe.csocvboagn,crsgncfocfe nb.
vs.c qybeb.crsgnceb.cvbfgnbecfo.cpgu..b.crsgncpgbbvcofsvptcGnbcoqg nb.
wbxcksggb.cfgcqo bcfo.cuovq wb.csgtcFgcgnbcgqi,cuo.becfcrnsgbcpnbbg,crfp
fc qfgcqkceb.cheq f.bcvsob.crsgncnfebpwso;cuo.becsgcrfpcfcpsvwc.ebpp,
gnbocfcpnfrvcfo.csgcpbbjb.cfpcgnquancgnbebcrfpcoqgnsoachbvqrchug
 vqgnbptcGnbcksepgcgnsoacnbc.s.crfpcgqcrsibcnspchvqq.-pgfsob.cnfo.pcqo
gnbceb.cheq f.btc“Sg’pceb.,cfo.cqoceb.chvqq.crsvvchbcvbppcoqgs bfhvb,”
cgnbcgnquangcifppb.cgnequancnspcjso.;cgnbocnbcpu..bovxc fjbcgqcnsjpbvkt
“Aqq.cAq.,cfjcScaqsoacqugcqkcjxcpbopbp?”cnbcgnquangcrsgncgbeeqet

Hugcoqcpqqobec.s.cnbcgqu ncgnbc vqgnbpcgnfocfcaqv.crfg ncpvsiib.ckeqj
uo.becgnbckuec qfgtcNbcjf.bcnfpgbcgqcgueocgnbjcfvvcqybetcGnbebcgueob.
qugcgqchbcyfesqupcfegs vbpcjf.bcqkcaqv.cfjqoacgnbc vqgnbp--ieqhfhvx
fvvcivb.abp,cuoeb.bbjb.cqecrfsgsoacgqchbceb.bbjb.--hef bvbgp,c nfsop,
bfe-esoap,cisopcfo.cpu ncgnsoaptcPqjbcrbebcsoc fpbp,cqgnbepcpsjivx
refiib.csocobrpifibe,c febkuvvxcfo.cbdf gvxckqv.b.,cfo.cgsb.cequo.crsgn
gfibtcRsgnqugcfoxc.bvfx,cnbchbafocksvvsoacuicgnbciq wbgpcqkcnspcgequpbep
fo.cqybe qfgcrsgnqugcbdfjsosoacqecuo.qsoacgnbcife bvpcfo.c fpbp;chugcnb
nf.coqgcgsjbcgqcgfwbcjfoxtttt

Nbcpu..bovxcnbfe.cpgbipcsocgnbceqqjcrnbebcgnbcqv.crqjfocvfxtcNbcpgqiib.
pnqegcfo.crfpcpgsvvcfpc.bfgntcHugcfvvcrfpclusbg,cpqcsgcjupgcnfybchbbo
nspckfo xtcFvvcfgcqo bcnbcnbfe.c.spgso gvxcfckfsogc ex,cfpcgnquan
pqjbqobcnf.cuggbeb.cfcvqrcheqwbocjqfotcGnbocfafsoc.bf.cpsvbo bckqe
fcjsougbcqecgrqtcNbcpfgcplufggsoacqocnspcnbbvpchxcgnbchqdcfo.crfsgb.
nqv.soacnspchebfgntcPu..bovxcnbcmujib.cui,cpbszb.cgnbcfdbcfo.cefocqugcqk
gnbchb.eqqjt

Socgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbceqqjcpgqq.cVszfybgfcrsgncfchsachuo.vbcsocnbecfejpt
Pnbcrfpcafzsoacsocpguibkf gsqocfgcnbecjue.beb.cpspgbe,crnsgbcfpcfcpnbbg
fo.cpbbjsoacoqgcgqcnfybcgnbcpgeboagncgqc excqugtcPbbsoacnsjceuocqug
qkcgnbchb.eqqj,cpnbchbafockfsogvxclusybesoacfvvcqybe,cvswbcfcvbfk,cf
pnu..becefoc.qrocnbeckf b;cpnbcvskgb.cnbecnfo.,cqibob.cnbecjqugn,chug
pgsvvc.s.coqgcp ebfjtcPnbchbafocpvqrvxchf wsoacfrfxckeqjcnsjcsogqcgnb
 qeobe,cpgfesoacsogbogvx,cibepspgbogvxcfgcnsj,chugcpgsvvcuggbeb.coq
pquo.,cfpcgnquancpnbc quv.coqgcabgchebfgncgqcp ebfjtcNbceupnb.cfgcnbe
rsgncgnbcfdb;cnbecjqugncgrsg nb.cisgbqupvx,cfpcqobcpbbpchfhsbp’cjqugnp,
rnbocgnbxchbasocgqchbckesangbob.,cpgfebcsogbogvxcfgcrnfgckesangbopcgnbj
fo.cfebcqocgnbciqsogcqkcp ebfjsoatcFo.cgnspcnfivbppcVszfybgfcrfpcpq
psjivbcfo.cnf.chbbocpqcgnqequanvxc eupnb.cfo.cp feb.cgnfgcpnbc.s.coqg
bybocefspbcfcnfo.cgqcaufe.cnbeckf b,cgnquancgnfgcrfpcgnbcjqpgcob bppfex
fo.cofguefvcf gsqocfgcgnbcjqjbog,ckqecgnbcfdbcrfpcefspb.cqybecnbeckf bt
Pnbcqovxciugcuicnbecbjigxcvbkgcnfo.,chugcoqgcgqcnbeckf b,cpvqrvxcnqv.soa
sgcqugchbkqebcnbecfpcgnquancjqgsqosoacnsjcfrfxtcGnbcfdbckbvvcrsgncgnb
pnfeicb.abcmupgcqocgnbcpwuvvcfo.cpivsgcfgcqobchvqrcfvvcgnbcgqicqkcgnb
nbf.tcPnbckbvvcnbfysvxcfgcqo btcEfpwqvoswqyc qjivbgbvxcvqpgcnspcnbf.,
pofg nsoacuicnbechuo.vb,c.eqiib.csgcfafsocfo.cefocsogqcgnbcbogext

Kbfecafsob.cjqebcfo.cjqebcjfpgbexcqybecnsj,cbpib sfvvxcfkgbecgnsp
pb qo.,clusgbcuobdib gb.cjue.betcNbcvqoab.cgqceuocfrfxckeqjcgnbcivf b
fpckfpgcfpciqppshvbtcFo.cskcfgcgnfgcjqjbogcnbcnf.chbboc fifhvbcqkcpbbsoa
fo.cebfpqosoacjqebc qeeb gvx,cskcnbcnf.chbbocfhvbcgqcebfvspbcfvvcgnb
.skks uvgsbpcqkcnspciqpsgsqo,cgnbcnqibvbppobpp,cgnbcns.bqupobppcfo.cgnb
fhpue.sgxcqkcsg,cskcnbc quv.cnfybcuo.bepgqq.cnqrcjfoxcqhpgf vbpcfo.,
ibenfip,c esjbpcnbcnf.cpgsvvcgqcqybe qjbcqecgqc qjjsg,cgqcabgcqugcqk
gnfgcivf bcfo.cgqcjfwbcnspcrfxcnqjb,csgcspcybexciqppshvbcgnfgcnbcrquv.
nfybckvuoacuicbybexgnsoa,cfo.crquv.cnfybcaqobcgqcasybcnsjpbvkcui,cfo.
oqgckeqjckbfe,chugckeqjcpsjivbcnqeeqecfo.cvqfgnsoacqkcrnfgcnbcnf.
.qobtcGnbckbbvsoacqkcvqfgnsoacbpib sfvvxcpueab.cuicrsgnsocnsjcfo.caebr
pgeqoabecbybexcjsougbtcNbcrquv.coqgcoqrcnfybcaqobcgqcgnbchqdcqecbybo
sogqcgnbceqqjckqecfoxgnsoacsocgnbcrqev.t

Hugcfcpqegcqkchvfowobpp,cbyboc.ebfjsobpp,cnf.chbauochxc.baebbpcgqcgfwb
iqppbppsqocqkcnsj;cfgcjqjbogpcnbckqeaqgcnsjpbvk,cqecefgnbe,ckqeaqgcrnfg
rfpcqkcsjiqegfo b,cfo.c fuangcfgcgeskvbptcAvfo soa,cnqrbybe,csogqcgnb
wsg nbocfo.cpbbsoacfchu wbgcnfvkckuvvcqkcrfgbecqocfchbo n,cnbchbgnquang
nsjcqkcrfpnsoacnspcnfo.pcfo.cgnbcfdbtcNspcnfo.pcrbebcpgs wxcrsgnchvqq.t
Nbc.eqiib.cgnbcfdbcrsgncgnbchvf.bcsocgnbcrfgbe,cpofg nb.cfcisb bcqkcpqfi
gnfgcvfxcsocfcheqwbocpfu becqocgnbcrso.qr,cfo.chbafocrfpnsoacnspcnfo.p
socgnbchu wbgtcRnbocgnbxcrbebc vbfo,cnbcgqqwcqugcgnbcfdb,crfpnb.cgnb
hvf.bcfo.cpibogcfcvqoacgsjb,cfhqugcgnebbcjsougbp,crfpnsoacgnbcrqq.crnbeb
gnbebcrbebcpiqgpcqkchvqq.ceuhhsoacgnbjcrsgncpqfitcGnbocnbcrsib.csgcfvv
rsgncpqjbcvsobocgnfgcrfpcnfoasoacgqc.excqocfcvsobcsocgnbcwsg nbocfo.
gnbocnbcrfpcfcvqoacrnsvbcfggbogsybvxcbdfjsosoacgnbcfdbcfgcgnbcrso.qrt
Gnbebcrfpcoqcgef bcvbkgcqocsg,cqovxcgnbcrqq.crfpcpgsvvc.fjitcNb
 febkuvvxcnuoacgnbcfdbcsocgnbcoqqpbcuo.becnspc qfgtcGnbocfpckfecfpcrfp
iqppshvb,csocgnbc.sjcvsangcsocgnbcwsg nbo,cnbcvqqwb.cqybecnspcqybe qfg,
nspcgequpbepcfo.cnspchqqgptcFgcgnbcksepgcavfo bcgnbebcpbbjb.cgqchb
oqgnsoachugcpgfsopcqocgnbchqqgptcNbcrbggb.cgnbcefacfo.ceuhhb.cgnbchqqgpt
Hugcnbcwobrcnbcrfpcoqgcvqqwsoacgnqequanvx,cgnfgcgnbebcjsangchbcpqjbgnsoa
lusgbcoqgs bfhvbcgnfgcnbcrfpcqybevqqwsoatcNbcpgqq.csocgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnb
eqqj,cvqpgcsocgnquangtc.fewcfaqospsoacs.bfpceqpbcsocnspcjso.--gnbcs.bf
gnfgcnbcrfpcjf.cfo.cgnfgcfgcgnfgcjqjbogcnbcrfpcso fifhvbcqkcebfpqosoa,
qkcieqgb gsoacnsjpbvk,cgnfgcnbcquangcibenfipcgqchbc.qsoacpqjbgnsoa
uggbevxc.skkbebogckeqjcrnfgcnbcrfpcoqrc.qsoatc“Aqq.cAq.!”cnbcjuggbeb.c“S
jupgckvx,ckvx,”cfo.cnbceupnb.csogqcgnbcbogextcHugcnbebcfcpnq wcqkcgbeeqe
frfsgb.cnsjcpu ncfpcnbcnf.cobybecwoqrochbkqebt

Nbcpgqq.cfo.cafzb.cfo.c quv.coqgchbvsbybcnspcbxbp:cgnbc.qqe,cgnbcqugbe
.qqeckeqjcgnbcpgfsep,cfgcrns ncnbcnf.coqgcvqoachbkqebcrfsgb.cfo.ceuoa,
rfpcpgfo.soacuokfpgbob.cfo.cfgcvbfpgcpsdcso nbpcqibotcOqcvq w,coqchqvg,
fvvcgnbcgsjb,cfvvcgnfgcgsjb!cGnbcqv.crqjfocnf.coqgcpnugcsgcfkgbecnsj
ibenfipcfpcfcieb fugsqotcHug,caqq.cAq.!cRnx,cnbcnf.cpbbocVszfybgf
fkgberfe.p!cFo.cnqrc quv.cnb,cnqrc quv.cnbcnfybckfsvb.cgqcebkvb gcgnfg
pnbcjupgcnfybc qjbcsocpqjbnqr!cPnbc quv.coqgcnfybc qjbcgnequancgnbcrfvv!

Nbc.fpnb.cgqcgnbc.qqecfo.ckfpgbob.cgnbcvfg nt

“Hugcoq,cgnbcreqoacgnsoacfafso!cScjupgcabgcfrfx,cabgcfrfxtttt”

Nbcuokfpgbob.cgnbcvfg n,cqibob.cgnbc.qqecfo.chbafocvspgbosoacqocgnb
pgfse fpbt

Nbcvspgbob.cfcvqoacgsjbtcPqjbrnbebckfecfrfx,csgcjsangchbcsocgnbcafgbrfx,
grqcyqs bpcrbebcvqu.vxcfo.cpnesvvxcpnqugsoa,clufeebvvsoacfo.cp qv.soat
“Rnfgcfebcgnbxcfhqug?”cNbcrfsgb.cifgsbogvxtcFgcvfpgcfvvcrfpcpgsvv,cfp
gnquancpu..bovxc ugcqkk;cgnbxcnf.cpbifefgb.tcNbcrfpcjbfosoacgqcaqcqug,
hugcpu..bovx,cqocgnbckvqqechbvqr,cfc.qqecrfpcoqspsvxcqibob.cfo.cpqjbqob
hbafocaqsoac.qropgfsepcnujjsoacfcguobtc“Nqrcspcsgcgnbxcfvvcjfwbcpu n
fcoqspb?”ckvfpnb.cgnequancnspcjso.tcQo bcjqebcnbc vqpb.cgnbc.qqecfo.
rfsgb.tcFgcvfpgcfvvcrfpcpgsvv,coqgcfcpquvcpgseesoatcNbcrfpcmupgcgfwsoacf
pgbicgqrfe.pcgnbcpgfsepcrnbocnbcnbfe.ckebpnckqqgpgbipt

Gnbcpgbipcpquo.b.cybexckfecqkk,cfgcgnbcybexchqggqjcqkcgnbcpgfsep,chug
nbcebjbjhbeb.clusgbc vbfevxcfo.c.spgso gvxcgnfgckeqjcgnbcksepgcpquo.cnb
hbafockqecpqjbcebfpqocgqcpupib gcgnfgcgnspcrfpcpqjbqobc qjsoac_gnbeb_,
gqcgnbckquegnckvqqe,cgqcgnbcqv.crqjfotcRnx?cRbebcgnbcpquo.pcpqjbnqr
ib uvsfe,cpsaosks fog?cGnbcpgbipcrbebcnbfyx,cbybocfo.cuonueesb.tcOqr
_nb_cnf.cifppb.cgnbcksepgckvqqe,coqrcnbcrfpcjquogsoacnsanbe,csgcrfp
aeqrsoacjqebcfo.cjqebc.spgso g!cNbc quv.cnbfecnspcnbfyxchebfgnsoatcFo.
oqrcgnbcgnse.cpgqebxcnf.chbbocebf nb.tc qjsoacnbeb!cFo.csgcpbbjb.cgq
nsjcfvvcfgcqo bcgnfgcnbcrfpcgueob.cgqcpgqob,cgnfgcsgcrfpcvswbcfc.ebfj
socrns ncqobcspchbsoaciuepub.,cobfevxc fuangcfo.crsvvchbcwsvvb.,cfo.csp
eqqgb.cgqcgnbcpiqgcfo.c fooqgcbybocjqybcqob’pcfejpt

Fgcvfpgcrnbocgnbcuowoqrocrfpcjquogsoacgqcgnbckquegnckvqqe,cnbcpu..bovx
pgfegb.,cfo.cpu  bb.b.csocpvsiisoacobfgvxcfo.clus wvxchf wcsogqcgnb
kvfgcfo.c vqpsoacgnbc.qqechbnso.cnsjtcGnbocnbcgqqwcgnbcnqqwcfo.cpqkgvx,
oqspbvbppvx,cksdb.csgcsocgnbc fg ntcSopgso gcnbvib.cnsjtcRnbocnbcnf.
.qobcgnsp,cnbc equ nb.cnqv.soacnspchebfgn,chxcgnbc.qqetcGnbcuowoqro
yspsgqecrfpchxcoqrcfvpqcfgcgnbc.qqetcGnbxcrbebcoqrcpgfo.soacqiiqpsgbcqob
foqgnbe,cfpcnbcnf.cmupgchbkqebchbbocpgfo.soacrsgncgnbcqv.crqjfo,crnbo
gnbc.qqec.sys.b.cgnbjcfo.cnbcrfpcvspgbosoat

Gnbcyspsgqecifogb.cpbybefvcgsjbptc“Nbcjupgchbcfchsa,ckfgcjfo,”cgnquang
Efpwqvoswqy,cplubbzsoacgnbcfdbcsocnspcnfo.tcSgcpbbjb.cvswbcfc.ebfj
so.bb.tcGnbcyspsgqecgqqwcnqv.cqkcgnbchbvvcfo.cefoacsgcvqu.vxt

Fpcpqqocfpcgnbcgsochbvvcgsowvb.,cEfpwqvoswqycpbbjb.cgqchbcfrfebcqk
pqjbgnsoacjqysoacsocgnbceqqjtcKqecpqjbcpb qo.pcnbcvspgbob.clusgb
pbesqupvxtcGnbcuowoqrocefoacfafso,crfsgb.cfo.cpu..bovxcguaab.cysqvbogvx
fo.csjifgsbogvxcfgcgnbcnfo.vbcqkcgnbc.qqetcEfpwqvoswqycafzb.csocnqeeqe
fgcgnbcnqqwcpnfwsoacsocsgpckfpgbosoa,cfo.csochvfowcgbeeqecbdib gb.cbybex
jsougbcgnfgcgnbckfpgbosoacrquv.chbciuvvb.cqugtcSgc begfsovxc.s.cpbbj
iqppshvb,cpqcysqvbogvxcrfpcnbcpnfwsoacsgtcNbcrfpcgbjigb.cgqcnqv.cgnb
kfpgbosoa,chugc_nb_cjsangchbcfrfebcqkcsgtcFcas..sobppc fjbcqybecnsj
fafsotc“Scpnfvvckfvvc.qro!”ckvfpnb.cgnequancnspcjso.,chugcgnbcuowoqro
hbafocgqcpibfwcfo.cnbceb qybeb.cnsjpbvkcfgcqo bt

“Rnfg’pcui?cFebcgnbxcfpvbbicqecjue.beb.?c.-.fjocgnbj!”cnbchfrvb.csocf
gns wcyqs b,c“Nbx,cFvxqofcSyfoqyof,cqv.crsg n!cVszfybgfcSyfoqyof,cnbx,
jxchbfugx!cqibocgnbc.qqe!cQn,c.fjocgnbj!cFebcgnbxcfpvbbicqecrnfg?”

Fo.cfafso,cboefab.,cnbcguaab.crsgncfvvcnspcjsangcfc.qzbocgsjbpcfg
gnbchbvvtcNbcjupgc begfsovxchbcfcjfocqkcfugnqesgxcfo.cfocsogsjfgb
f lufsogfo bt

Fgcgnspcjqjbogcvsangcnueesb.cpgbipcrbebcnbfe.coqgckfecqkk,cqocgnb
pgfseptcPqjbqobcbvpbcrfpcfiieqf nsoatcEfpwqvoswqycnf.coqgcnbfe.cgnbjcfg
ksepgt

“Xquc.qo’gcpfxcgnbeb’pcoqcqobcfgcnqjb,”cgnbcobr- qjbec esb.csocf
 nbbekuv,cesoasoacyqs b,cf..ebppsoacgnbcksepgcyspsgqe,crnqcpgsvvcrbogcqo
iuvvsoacgnbchbvvtc“Aqq.cbybosoa,cWq nt”

“Keqjcnspcyqs bcnbcjupgchbclusgbcxquoa,”cgnquangcEfpwqvoswqyt

“Rnqcgnbc.bysvc focgbvv?cS’ybcfvjqpgcheqwbocgnbcvq w,”cfoprbeb.cWq nt
“Hugcnqrc.qcxquc qjbcgqcwoqrcjb?”

“Rnx!cGnbc.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fxcSchbfgcxqucgnebbcgsjbpceuoosoacfg
hsvvsfe.pcfgcAfjhesoup’t”

“Qn!”

“Pqcgnbxcfebcoqgcfgcnqjb?cGnfg’pclubbetcSg’pcfrkuvvxcpguis.cgnquant
Rnbebc quv.cgnbcqv.crqjfocnfybcaqob?cS’ybc qjbcqochupsobppt”

“Xbp;cfo.cScnfybchupsobppcrsgncnbe,cgqqt”

“Rbvv,crnfgc focrbc.q?cAqchf w,cScpuiiqpb,cFsb--fsb!cFo.cScrfpcnqisoacgq
abgcpqjbcjqobx!”c esb.cgnbcxquoacjfot

“Rbcjupgcasybcsgcui,cqkc quepb,chugcrnfgc.s.cpnbcksdcgnspcgsjbckqe?cGnb
qv.crsg ncksdb.cgnbcgsjbckqecjbcgqc qjbcnbepbvktcSg’pcqugcqkcjxcrfxt
Fo.crnbebcgnbc.bysvcpnbc focnfybcaqgcgq,cSc fo’gcjfwbcqugtcPnbcpsgpcnbeb
keqjcxbfe’pcbo.cgqcxbfe’pcbo.,cgnbcqv.cnfa;cnbecvbapcfebchf.cfo.cxbg
nbebcfvvcqkcfcpu..bocpnbcspcqugckqecfcrfvw!”

“Nf.o’gcrbchbggbecfpwcgnbciqegbe?”

“Rnfg?”

“Rnbebcpnb’pcaqobcfo.crnbocpnb’vvchbchf wt”

“Njttttc.fjocsgcfvv!tttcRbcjsangcfpwttttcHugcxqucwoqrcpnbcobybec.qbpcaq
foxrnbebt”

Fo.cnbcqo bcjqebcguaab.cfgcgnbc.qqe-nfo.vbt

“.fjocsgcfvvtcGnbeb’pcoqgnsoacgqchbc.qob,crbcjupgcaq!”

“Pgfx!”c esb.cgnbcxquoacjfocpu..bovxtc“.qcxqucpbbcnqrcgnbc.qqecpnfwbpcsk
xquciuvvcsg?”

“Rbvv?”

“Gnfgcpnqrpcsg’pcoqgcvq wb.,chugckfpgbob.crsgncgnbcnqqw!c.qcxqucnbfecnqr
gnbcnqqwc vfowp?”

“Rbvv?”

“Rnx,c.qo’gcxqucpbb?cGnfgcieqybpcgnfgcqobcqkcgnbjcspcfgcnqjbtcSkcgnbx
rbebcfvvcqug,cgnbxcrquv.cnfybcvq wb.cgnbc.qqeckeqjcgnbcqugps.bcrsgncgnb
wbxcfo.coqgcrsgncgnbcnqqwckeqjcsops.btcGnbeb,c.qcxqucnbfecnqrcgnbcnqqw
spc vfowsoa?cGqckfpgbocgnbcnqqwcqocgnbcsops.bcgnbxcjupgchbcfgcnqjb,
.qo’gcxqucpbbtcPqcgnbebcgnbxcfebcpsggsoacsops.bcfo.c.qo’gcqibocgnb
.qqe!”

“Rbvv!cFo.cpqcgnbxcjupgchb!”c esb.cWq n,cfpgqospnb.tc“Rnfgcfebcgnbx
fhqugcsocgnbeb?”cFo.cnbchbafockuesqupvxcpnfwsoacgnbc.qqet

“Pgfx!”c esb.cgnbcxquoacjfocfafsotc“.qo’gciuvvcfgcsg!cGnbebcjupgchb
pqjbgnsoacreqoattttcNbeb,cxqu’ybchbbocesoasoacfo.ciuvvsoacfgcgnbc.qqe
fo.cpgsvvcgnbxc.qo’gcqibo!cPqcbsgnbecgnbx’ybchqgnckfsogb.cqettt”

“Rnfg?”

“ScgbvvcxqucrnfgtcVbg’pcaqckbg ncgnbciqegbe,cvbgcnsjcrfwbcgnbjcuit”

“Fvvcesangt”

Hqgncrbebcaqsoac.qrot

“PgfxtcXqucpgqicnbebcrnsvbcSceuoc.qrockqecgnbciqegbet”

“Rnfgckqe?”

“Rbvv,cxqu’.chbggbet”

“Fvvcesangt”

“S’jcpgu.xsoacgnbcvfrcxqucpbb!cSg’pcbys.bog,cb-ys-.bogcgnbeb’pcpqjbgnsoa
reqoacnbeb!”cgnbcxquoacjfoc esb.cnqgvx,cfo.cnbcefoc.qropgfsept

Wq ncebjfsob.tcQo bcjqebcnbcpqkgvxcgqu nb.cgnbchbvvcrns ncafybcqob
gsowvb,cgnbocabogvx,cfpcgnquancebkvb gsoacfo.cvqqwsoacfhqugcnsj,chbafo
gqu nsoacgnbc.qqe-nfo.vbciuvvsoacsgcfo.cvbggsoacsgcaqcgqcjfwbcpuebcqo b
jqebcgnfgcsgcrfpcqovxckfpgbob.chxcgnbcnqqwtcGnbociukksoacfo.cifogsoacnb
hbogc.qrocfo.chbafocvqqwsoacfgcgnbcwbxnqvb:chugcgnbcwbxcrfpcsocgnbcvq w
qocgnbcsops.bcfo.cpqcoqgnsoac quv.chbcpbbot

Efpwqvoswqycpgqq.cwbbisoacgsangcnqv.cqkcgnbcfdbtcNbcrfpcsocfcpqegcqk
.bvsesujtcNbcrfpcbybocjfwsoacebf.xcgqcksangcrnbocgnbxcpnquv.c qjbcsot
Rnsvbcgnbxcrbebcwoq wsoacfo.cgfvwsoacgqabgnbe,cgnbcs.bfcpbybefvcgsjbp
q  ueeb.cgqcnsjcgqcbo.csgcfvvcfgcqo bcfo.cpnqugcgqcgnbjcgnequancgnb
.qqetcOqrcfo.cgnbocnbcrfpcgbjigb.cgqcprbfecfgcgnbj,cgqcmbbecfgcgnbj,
rnsvbcgnbxc quv.coqgcqibocgnbc.qqe!c“Qovxcjfwbcnfpgb!”crfpcgnbcgnquang
gnfgckvfpnb.cgnequancnspcjso.t

“Hugcrnfgcgnbc.bysvcspcnbcfhqug?ttt”cGsjbcrfpcifppsoa,cqobcjsougb,cfo.
foqgnbe--oqcqobc fjbtcWq nchbafocgqchbcebpgvbppt

“Rnfgcgnbc.bysv?”cnbc esb.cpu..bovxcfo.csocsjifgsbo bc.bpbegsoacnsp
pbogexc.ugx,cnb,cgqq,crbogc.qro,cnueexsoacfo.cgnujisoacrsgncnspcnbfyx
hqqgpcqocgnbcpgfseptcGnbcpgbipc.sb.cfrfxt

“Aqq.cnbfybop!cRnfgcfjcScgqc.q?”

Efpwqvoswqycuokfpgbob.cgnbcnqqw,cqibob.cgnbc.qqe--gnbebcrfpcoqcpquo.t
Fheuigvx,crsgnqugcfoxcgnquangcfgcfvv,cnbcrbogcqug,c vqpsoacgnbc.qqecfp
gnqequanvxcfpcnbc quv.,cfo.crbogc.qropgfsept

Nbcnf.caqobc.qrocgnebbckvsangpcrnbocnbcpu..bovxcnbfe.cfcvqu.cyqs b
hbvqr--rnbebc quv.cnbcaq!cGnbebcrfpcoqrnbebcgqcns.btcNbcrfpcmupgcaqsoa
hf wcgqcgnbckvfgt

“Nbxcgnbeb!c fg ncgnbcheugb!”

Pqjbhq.xc.fpnb.cqugcqkcfckvfgchbvqr,cpnqugsoa,cfo.cefgnbeckbvvcgnfocefo
.qrocgnbcpgfsep,chfrvsoacfgcgnbcgqicqkcnspcyqs bt

“Jsgwf!cJsgwf!cJsgwf!cJsgwf!cJsgwf!cHvfpgcnsj!”

Gnbcpnqugcbo.b.csocfcpnesbw;cgnbcvfpgcpquo.pc fjbckeqjcgnbcxfe.;cfvvcrfp
pgsvvtcHugcfgcgnbcpfjbcsopgfogcpbybefvcjbocgfvwsoacvqu.cfo.ckfpgchbafo
oqspsvxcjquogsoacgnbcpgfseptcGnbebcrbebcgnebbcqeckquecqkcgnbjtcNb
.spgsoauspnb.cgnbcesoasoacyqs bcqkcgnbcxquoacjfotc“Nbx!”

Ksvvb.crsgnc.bpifsecnbcrbogcpgefsangcgqcjbbgcgnbj,ckbbvsoac“ qjbcrnfg
jupg!”cSkcgnbxcpgqiib.cnsj--fvvcrfpcvqpg;cskcgnbxcvbgcnsjcifpp--fvvcrfp
vqpgcgqq;cgnbxcrquv.cebjbjhbecnsjtcGnbxcrbebcfiieqf nsoa;cgnbxcrbebcqovx
fckvsangckeqjcnsj--fo.cpu..bovxc.bvsybefo b!cFckbrcpgbipckeqjcnsjcqocgnb
esang,cgnbebcrfpcfocbjigxckvfgcrsgncgnbc.qqecrs.bcqibo,cgnbckvfgcqocgnb
pb qo.ckvqqecrnbebcgnbcifsogbepcnf.chbbocfgcrqew,cfo.crns n,cfpcgnquan
kqecnspchbobksg,cgnbxcnf.cmupgcvbkgtcSgcrfpcgnbx,coqc.quhg,crnqcnf.cmupg
euoc.qro,cpnqugsoatcGnbckvqqecnf.cqovxcmupgchbbocifsogb.,csocgnbcjs..vb
qkcgnbceqqjcpgqq.cfcifsvcfo.cfcheqwbociqgcrsgncifsogcfo.cheupnbptcSocqob
sopgfogcnbcnf.crnspwb.csocfgcgnbcqiboc.qqecfo.cns..bochbnso.cgnbcrfvv
fo.cqovxcsocgnbcos wcqkcgsjb;cgnbxcnf.cfvebf.xcebf nb.cgnbcvfo.soat
Gnbocgnbxcgueob.cfo.crbogcqocuicgqcgnbckquegnckvqqe,cgfvwsoacvqu.vxtcNb
rfsgb.,crbogcqugcqocgsigqbcfo.cefoc.qrocgnbcpgfsept

Oqcqobcrfpcqocgnbcpgfsep,coqecsocgnbcafgbrfxtcNbcifppb.clus wvxcgnequan
gnbcafgbrfxcfo.cgueob.cgqcgnbcvbkgcsocgnbcpgebbgt

Nbcwobr,cnbcwobrcibekb gvxcrbvvcgnfgcfgcgnfgcjqjbogcgnbxcrbebcfgcgnb
kvfg,cgnfgcgnbxcrbebcaebfgvxcfpgqospnb.cfgckso.soacsgcuovq wb.,cfp
gnbc.qqecnf.cmupgchbbockfpgbob.,cgnfgchxcoqrcgnbxcrbebcvqqwsoacfgcgnb
hq.sbp,cgnfgchbkqebcfoqgnbecjsougbcnf.cifppb.cgnbxcrquv.caubppcfo.
 qjivbgbvxcebfvspbcgnfgcgnbcjue.bebecnf.cmupgchbbocgnbeb,cfo.cnf.
pu  bb.b.csocns.soacpqjbrnbeb,cpvsiisoachxcgnbjcfo.cbp fisoatcGnbxcrquv.
aubppcjqpgcvswbvxcgnfgcnbcnf.chbbocsocgnbcbjigxckvfg,crnsvbcgnbxcrbeb
aqsoacuipgfseptcFo.cjbfornsvbcnbc.feb.coqgclus wbocnspcif bcju n,cgnquan
gnbcobdgcgueosoacrfpcpgsvvcobfevxcfcnuo.eb.cxfe.pcfrfxtc“Pnquv.cnb
pvsicgnequancpqjbcafgbrfxcfo.crfsgcpqjbrnbebcsocfocuowoqrocpgebbg?cOq,
nqibvbpp!cPnquv.cnbckvsoacfrfxcgnbcfdb?cPnquv.cnbcgfwbcfc fh?cNqibvbpp,
nqibvbpp!”

Fgcvfpgcnbcebf nb.cgnbcgueosoatcNbcgueob.c.qrocsgcjqebc.bf.cgnfocfvsybt
Nbebcnbcrfpcnfvkcrfxcgqcpfkbgx,cfo.cnbcuo.bepgqq.csg;csgcrfpcvbppcespwx
hb fupbcgnbebcrfpcfcaebfgc eqr.cqkcibqivb,cfo.cnbcrfpcvqpgcsocsgcvswbcf
aefsocqkcpfo.tcHugcfvvcnbcnf.cpukkbeb.cnf.cpqcrbfwbob.cnsjcgnfgcnbc quv.
p fe bvxcjqybtcIbepisefgsqocefoc.qrocnsjcsoc.eqip,cnspcob wcrfpcfvvcrbgt
“Jxcrqe.,cnbcnfpchbbocaqsoacsg!”cpqjbqobcpnqugb.cfgcnsjcrnbocnbc fjbcqug
qocgnbc fofvchfowt

Nbcrfpcqovxc.sjvxc qop squpcqkcnsjpbvkcoqr,cfo.cgnbckfegnbecnbcrbogcgnb
rqepbcsgcrfptcNbcebjbjhbeb.cnqrbybe,cgnfgcqoc qjsoacqugcqocgqcgnbc fofv
hfow,cnbcrfpcfvfejb.cfgckso.soackbrcibqivbcgnbebcfo.cpqchbsoacjqeb
 qopis uqup,cfo.cnbcnf.cgnquangcqkcgueosoachf wtcGnquancnbcrfpcfvjqpg
kfvvsoackeqjckfgsaub,cnbcrbogcfcvqoacrfxcequo.cpqcfpcgqcabgcnqjbckeqj
lusgbcfc.skkbebogc.seb gsqot

Nbcrfpcoqgckuvvxc qop squpcrnbocnbcifppb.cgnequancgnbcafgbrfxcqkcnsp
nqupb!cNbcrfpcfvebf.xcqocgnbcpgfse fpbchbkqebcnbceb qvvb gb.cgnbcfdbt
Fo.cxbgcnbcnf.cfcybexcaefybcieqhvbjchbkqebcnsj,cgqciugcsgchf wcfo.cgq
bp fibcqhpbeyfgsqocfpckfecfpciqppshvbcsoc.qsoacpqtcNbcrfpcqkc quepb
so fifhvbcqkcebkvb gsoacgnfgcsgcjsangcibenfipchbckfechbggbecoqgcgq
ebpgqebcgnbcfdbcfgcfvv,chugcgqc.eqicsgcvfgbecqocsocpqjbhq.x’pcxfe.tcHug
sgcfvvcnfiibob.ckqeguofgbvx,cgnbc.qqecqkcgnbciqegbe’pceqqjcrfpc vqpb.
hugcoqgcvq wb.,cpqcgnfgcsgcpbbjb.cjqpgcvswbvxcgnfgcgnbciqegbecrfpcfg
nqjbtcHugcnbcnf.cpqc qjivbgbvxcvqpgcfvvciqrbecqkcebkvb gsqocgnfgcnb
rfvwb.cpgefsangcgqcgnbc.qqecfo.cqibob.csgtcSkcgnbciqegbecnf.cfpwb.cnsj,
“Rnfgc.qcxqucrfog?”cnbcrquv.cibenfipcnfybcpsjivxcnfo.b.cnsjcgnbcfdbtcHug
fafsocgnbciqegbecrfpcoqgcfgcnqjb,cfo.cnbcpu  bb.b.csociuggsoacgnbcfdb
hf wcuo.becgnbchbo n,cfo.cbyboc qybesoacsgcrsgncgnbc nuowcqkcrqq.cfp
hbkqebtcNbcjbgcoqcqob,coqgcfcpquv,cfkgberfe.pcqocgnbcrfxcgqcnspceqqj;
gnbcvfo.vf.x’pc.qqecrfpcpnugtcRnbocnbcrfpcsocnspceqqj,cnbckvuoacnsjpbvk
qocgnbcpqkfcmupgcfpcnbcrfp--nbc.s.coqgcpvbbi,chugcpfowcsogqchvfow
kqeabgkuvobpptcSkcfoxqobcnf.c qjbcsogqcnspceqqjcgnbo,cnbcrquv.cnfyb
mujib.cuicfgcqo bcfo.cp ebfjb.tcP efipcfo.cpneb.pcqkcgnquangpcrbeb
psjivxcprfejsoacsocnspchefso,chugcnbc quv.coqgc fg ncfgcqob,cnbc quv.
oqgcebpgcqocqob,csocpisgbcqkcfvvcnspcbkkqegptttt




IFEGcSS



 NFIGBEcS

PqcnbcvfxcfcybexcvqoacrnsvbtcOqrcfo.cgnbocnbcpbbjb.cgqcrfwbcui,cfo.cfg
pu ncjqjbogpcnbcoqgs b.cgnfgcsgcrfpckfecsogqcgnbcosang,chugcsgc.s.coqg
q  uecgqcnsjcgqcabgcuitcFgcvfpgcnbcoqgs b.cgnfgcsgcrfpchbasoosoacgqcabg
vsangtcNbcrfpcvxsoacqocnspchf w,cpgsvvc.fzb.ckeqjcnspceb bogcqhvsysqot
Kbfekuv,c.bpifsesoac esbpceqpbcpnesvvxckeqjcgnbcpgebbg,cpquo.pcrns ncnb
nbfe.cbybexcosang,cso.bb.,cuo.becnspcrso.qrcfkgbecgrqcq’ vq wtcGnbxcrqwb
nsjcuicoqrt

“Fn!cgnbc.euowbocjbocfebc qjsoacqugcqkcgnbcgfybeop,”cnbcgnquang,c“sg’p
ifpgcgrqcq’ vq w,”cfo.cfgcqo bcnbcvbfib.cui,cfpcgnquancpqjbqobcnf.
iuvvb.cnsjckeqjcgnbcpqkft

“Rnfg!cIfpgcgrqcq’ vq w!”

Nbcpfgc.qrocqocgnbcpqkf--fo.csopgfogvxceb qvvb gb.cbybexgnsoa!cFvvcfg
qo b,csocqobckvfpn,cnbceb qvvb gb.cbybexgnsoat

Kqecgnbcksepgcjqjbogcnbcgnquangcnbcrfpcaqsoacjf.tcFc.ebf.kuvc nsvvc fjb
qybecnsj;chugcgnbc nsvvcrfpckeqjcgnbckbybecgnfgcnf.chbauocvqoachbkqebcso
nspcpvbbitcOqrcnbcrfpcpu..bovxcgfwbocrsgncysqvbogcpnsybesoa,cpqcgnfgcnsp
gbbgnc nfggbeb.cfo.cfvvcnspcvsjhpcrbebcpnfwsoatcNbcqibob.cgnbc.qqecfo.
hbafocvspgbosoa--bybexgnsoacsocgnbcnqupbcrfpcfpvbbitcRsgncfjfzbjbogcnb
afzb.cfgcnsjpbvkcfo.cbybexgnsoacsocgnbceqqjcfequo.cnsj,crqo.besoacnqrcnb
 quv.cnfybc qjbcsocgnbcosangchbkqebcrsgnqugckfpgbosoacgnbc.qqe,cfo.cnfyb
kvuoacnsjpbvkcqocgnbcpqkfcrsgnqugcuo.ebppsoa,crsgnqugcbybocgfwsoacnsp
nfgcqkktcSgcnf.ckfvvbocqkkcfo.crfpcvxsoacqocgnbckvqqecobfecnspcisvvqrt

“Skcfoxqobcnf.c qjbcso,crnfgcrquv.cnbcnfybcgnquang?cGnfgcS’jc.euow
hugttt”

Nbceupnb.cgqcgnbcrso.qrtcGnbebcrfpcvsangcboquan,cfo.cnbchbafocnueesb.vx
vqqwsoacnsjpbvkcfvvcqybeckeqjcnbf.cgqckqqg,cfvvcnspc vqgnbp;crbebcgnbeb
oqcgef bp?cHugcgnbebcrfpcoqc.qsoacsgcvswbcgnfg;cpnsybesoacrsgnc qv.,cnb
hbafocgfwsoacqkkcbybexgnsoacfo.cvqqwsoacqybecfafsotcNbcgueob.cbybexgnsoa
qybecgqcgnbcvfpgcgnebf.pcfo.cefap,cfo.cjspgeupgsoacnsjpbvk,crbogcgnequan
nspcpbfe ncgnebbcgsjbpt

Hugcgnbebcpbbjb.cgqchbcoqgnsoa,coqcgef b,cbd bigcsocqobcivf b,crnbeb
pqjbcgns wc.eqipcqkc qoabfvb.chvqq.crbebc vsoasoacgqcgnbckefxb.cb.ab
qkcnspcgequpbeptcNbcis wb.cuicfchsac vfpiwoskbcfo.c ugcqkkcgnbckefxb.
gnebf.ptcGnbebcpbbjb.cgqchbcoqgnsoacjqebt

Pu..bovxcnbcebjbjhbeb.cgnfgcgnbciuepbcfo.cgnbcgnsoapcnbcnf.cgfwbocqugcqk
gnbcqv.crqjfo’pchqdcrbebcpgsvvcsocnspciq wbgp!cNbcnf.coqgcgnquangcgsvv
gnbocqkcgfwsoacgnbjcqugcfo.cns.soacgnbj!cNbcnf.coqgcbybocgnquangcqkcgnbj
rnsvbcnbcrfpcbdfjsosoacnspc vqgnbp!cRnfgcobdg?cSopgfogvxcnbceupnb.
gqcgfwbcgnbjcqugcfo.ckvsoacgnbjcqocgnbcgfhvbtcRnbocnbcnf.ciuvvb.cqug
bybexgnsoa,cfo.cgueob.cgnbciq wbgcsops.bcqugcgqchbcpuebcgnbebcrfp
oqgnsoacvbkg,cnbc feesb.cgnbcrnqvbcnbficgqcgnbc qeobetcGnbcifibecnf.
 qjbcqkkcgnbchqggqjcqkcgnbcrfvvcfo.cnuoacgnbebcsocgfggbeptcNbchbafo
pgukksoacfvvcgnbcgnsoapcsogqcgnbcnqvbcuo.becgnbcifibe:c“Gnbx’ebcso!cFvv
qugcqkcpsang,cfo.cgnbciuepbcgqq!”cnbcgnquangcavbbkuvvx,cabggsoacuicfo.
afzsoachvfowvxcfgcgnbcnqvbcrns nchuvab.cqugcjqebcgnfocbybetcPu..bovx
nbcpnu..beb.cfvvcqybecrsgncnqeeqe;c“JxcAq.!”cnbcrnspibeb.csoc.bpifse:
“rnfg’pcgnbcjfggbecrsgncjb?cSpcgnfgcns..bo?cSpcgnfgcgnbcrfxcgqcns.b
gnsoap?”

Nbcnf.coqgceb wqob.cqocnfysoacgesowbgpcgqcns.btcNbcnf.cqovxcgnquangcqk
jqobx,cfo.cpqcnf.coqgciebifeb.cfcns.soa-ivf bt

“Hugcoqr,coqr,crnfgcfjcScavf.cqk?”cnbcgnquang,c“Spcgnfgcns.soacgnsoap?
Jxcebfpqo’pc.bpbegsoacjb--psjivx!”

Nbcpfgc.qrocqocgnbcpqkfcsocbdnfupgsqocfo.crfpcfgcqo bcpnfwbochxcfoqgnbe
uohbfefhvbcksgcqkcpnsybesoatcJb nfos fvvxcnbc.ebrckeqjcfc nfsechbps.b
nsjcnspcqv.cpgu.bog’pcrsogbec qfg,crns ncrfpcpgsvvcrfejcgnquancfvjqpgcso
efap,c qybeb.cnsjpbvkcuicrsgncsgcfo.cqo bcjqebcpfowcsogqc.eqrpsobppcfo.
.bvsesujtcNbcvqpgc qop squpobppt

Oqgcjqebcgnfocksybcjsougbpcnf.cifppb.crnbocnbcmujib.cuicfcpb qo.cgsjb,
fo.cfgcqo bciquo b.csocfckebozxcqocnspc vqgnbpcfafsot

“Nqrc quv.cScaqcgqcpvbbicfafsocrsgncoqgnsoac.qob?cXbp,cxbp;cScnfybcoqg
gfwbocgnbcvqqicqkkcgnbcfejnqvb!cSckqeaqgcsg,ckqeaqgcfcgnsoacvswbcgnfg!
Pu ncfcisb bcqkcbys.bo b!”

Nbciuvvb.cqkkcgnbcoqqpb,cnueesb.vxc ugcsgcgqcisb bpcfo.cgnebrcgnbchsgp
fjqoacnspcvsobocuo.becgnbcisvvqrt

“Isb bpcqkcgqeocvsoboc quv.o’gcequpbcpupis sqo,crnfgbybecnfiibob.;cS
gnsowcoqg,cScgnsowcoqg,cfoxcrfx!”cnbcebibfgb.,cpgfo.soacsocgnbcjs..vb
qkcgnbceqqj,cfo.crsgncifsokuvc qo bogefgsqocnbckbvvcgqcafzsoacfhqug
nsjcfafso,cfgcgnbckvqqecfo.cbybexrnbeb,cgexsoacgqcjfwbcpuebcnbcnf.coqg
kqeaqggbocfoxgnsoatcGnbc qoys gsqocgnfgcfvvcnspckf uvgsbp,cbybocjbjqex,
fo.cgnbcpsjivbpgciqrbecqkcebkvb gsqocrbebckfsvsoacnsj,chbafocgqchbcfo
sopukkbefhvbcgqeguebt

“Puebvxcsgcspo’gchbasoosoacfvebf.x!cPuebvxcsgcspo’gcjxciuospnjbogc qjsoa
uiqocjb?cSgcsp!”

Gnbckefxb.cefapcnbcnf.c ugcqkkcnspcgequpbepcrbebcf gufvvxcvxsoacqocgnb
kvqqecsocgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbceqqj,crnbebcfoxqobc qjsoacsocrquv.cpbbcgnbj!

“Rnfgcspcgnbcjfggbecrsgncjb!”cnbc esb.cfafso,cvswbcqobc.spgefuangt

Gnbocfcpgefoabcs.bfcbogbeb.cnspcnbf.;cgnfg,cibenfip,cfvvcnspc vqgnbp
rbebc qybeb.crsgnchvqq.,cgnfg,cibenfip,cgnbebcrbebcfcaebfgcjfox
pgfsop,chugcgnfgcnbc.s.coqgcpbbcgnbj,c.s.coqgcoqgs bcgnbjchb fupb
nspcibe bigsqopcrbebckfsvsoa,crbebcaqsoacgqcisb bptttcnspcebfpqocrfp
 vqu.b.ttttcPu..bovxcnbcebjbjhbeb.cgnfgcgnbebcnf.chbbochvqq.cqocgnb
iuepbcgqqtc“Fn!cGnbocgnbebcjupgchbchvqq.cqocgnbciq wbgcgqq,ckqecSciug
gnbcrbgciuepbcsocjxciq wbg!”

Socfckvfpncnbcnf.cgueob.cgnbciq wbgcsops.bcqugcfo.,cxbp!--gnbebcrbeb
gef bp,cpgfsopcqocgnbcvsosoacqkcgnbciq wbg!

“Pqcjxcebfpqocnfpcoqgclusgbc.bpbegb.cjb,cpqcScpgsvvcnfybcpqjbcpbopbcfo.
jbjqex,cpso bcScaubppb.csgcqkcjxpbvk,”cnbcgnquangcgesujinfogvx,crsgn
fc.bbicpsancqkcebvsbk;c“sg’pcpsjivxcgnbcrbfwobppcqkckbybe,cfcjqjbog’p
.bvsesuj,”cfo.cnbcgqebcgnbcrnqvbcvsosoacqugcqkcgnbcvbkgciq wbgcqkcnsp
gequpbeptcFgcgnfgcsopgfogcgnbcpuovsangckbvvcqocnspcvbkgchqqg;cqocgnb
pq wcrns nciqwb.cqugckeqjcgnbchqqg,cnbckfo sb.cgnbebcrbebcgef bp!cNb
kvuoacqkkcnspchqqgp;c“gef bpcso.bb.!cGnbcgsicqkcgnbcpq wcrfpcpqfwb.crsgn
hvqq.;”cnbcjupgcnfybcuorfesvxcpgbiib.csogqcgnfgciqqvttttc“HugcrnfgcfjcS
gqc.qcrsgncgnspcoqr?cRnbebcfjcScgqciugcgnbcpq wcfo.cefapcfo.ciq wbg?”

Nbcafgnbeb.cgnbjcfvvcuicsocnspcnfo.pcfo.cpgqq.csocgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnb
eqqjt

“Socgnbcpgqyb?cHugcgnbxcrquv.cefopf wcgnbcpgqybcksepgcqkcfvvtcHueocgnbj?
Hugcrnfgc focSchueocgnbjcrsgn?cGnbebcfebcoqcjfg nbpcbybotcOq,chbggbe
aqcqugcfo.cgneqrcsgcfvvcfrfxcpqjbrnbebtcXbp,chbggbecgneqrcsgcfrfx,”cnb
ebibfgb.,cpsggsoac.qrocqocgnbcpqkfcfafso,c“fo.cfgcqo b,cgnspcjsougb,
rsgnqugcvsoabesoattt”

Hugcnspcnbf.cpfowcqocgnbcisvvqrcsopgbf.tcFafsocgnbcuohbfefhvbcs x
pnsybesoac fjbcqybecnsj;cfafsocnbc.ebrcnspc qfgcqybecnsjt

Fo.ckqecfcvqoacrnsvb,ckqecpqjbcnquep,cnbcrfpcnfuogb.chxcgnbcsjiuvpbcgq
“aqcqkkcpqjbrnbebcfgcqo b,cgnspcjqjbog,cfo.ckvsoacsgcfvvcfrfx,cpqcgnfg
sgcjfxchbcqugcqkcpsangcfo.c.qobcrsgn,cfgcqo b,cfgcqo b!”cPbybefvcgsjbp
nbcgesb.cgqcespbckeqjcgnbcpqkf,chugc quv.coqgt

Nbcrfpcgnqequanvxcrfwb.cuicfgcvfpgchxcfcysqvbogcwoq wsoacfgcnspc.qqet

“Qibo,c.q,cfebcxquc.bf.cqecfvsyb?cNbcwbbipcpvbbisoacnbeb!”cpnqugb.
Ofpgfpxf,chfoasoacrsgncnbeckspgcqocgnbc.qqetc“Kqecrnqvbc.fxpcgqabgnbe
nb’pcpoqesoacnbebcvswbcfc.qa!cFc.qacnbcspcgqqtcQibocScgbvvcxqutcSg’p
ifpgcgbot”

“Jfxhbcnb’pcoqgcfgcnqjb,”cpfs.cfcjfo’pcyqs bt

“Nf!cgnfg’pcgnbciqegbe’pcyqs bttttcRnfgc.qbpcnbcrfog?”

Nbcmujib.cuicfo.cpfgcqocgnbcpqkftcGnbchbfgsoacqkcnspcnbfegcrfpcf
iqpsgsybcifsot

“Gnbocrnqc focnfybcvfg nb.cgnbc.qqe?”cebgqegb.cOfpgfpxftc“Nb’pcgfwbocgq
hqvgsoacnsjpbvkcso!cFpcskcnbcrbebcrqegncpgbfvsoa!cQibo,cxqucpguis.,crfwb
ui!”

“Rnfgc.qcgnbxcrfog?cRnxcgnbciqegbe?cFvv’pc.sp qybeb.tcEbpspgcqecqibo?
 qjbcrnfgcjfx!ttt”

Nbcnfvkceqpb,cpgqqib.ckqerfe.cfo.cuovfg nb.cgnbc.qqet

Nspceqqjcrfpcpqcpjfvvcgnfgcnbc quv.cuo.qcgnbcvfg ncrsgnqugcvbfysoacgnb
hb.tcXbp;cgnbciqegbecfo.cOfpgfpxfcrbebcpgfo.soacgnbebt

Ofpgfpxfcpgfeb.cfgcnsjcsocfcpgefoabcrfxtcNbcavfo b.crsgncfc.bksfogcfo.
.bpibefgbcfsecfgcgnbciqegbe,crnqcrsgnqugcfcrqe.cnbv.cqugcfcaebxckqv.b.
ifibecpbfvb.crsgnchqggvb-rfdt

“Fcoqgs bckeqjcgnbcqkks b,”cnbcfooquo b.,cfpcnbcafybcnsjcgnbcifibet

“Keqjcrnfgcqkks b?”

“Fcpujjqopcgqcgnbciqvs bcqkks b,cqkc quepbtcXqucwoqrcrns ncqkks bt”

“Gqcgnbciqvs b?tttcRnfgckqe?ttt”

“Nqrc focScgbvv?cXqu’ebcpbogckqe,cpqcxqucaqt”

Gnbcjfocvqqwb.cfgcnsjcfggbogsybvx,cvqqwb.cequo.cgnbceqqjcfo.cgueob.cgq
aqcfrfxt

“Nb’pc.qroesangcsvv!”cqhpbeyb.cOfpgfpxf,coqgcgfwsoacnbecbxbpcqkkcnsjt
Gnbciqegbecgueob.cnspcnbf.ckqecfcjqjbogtc“Nb’pchbbocsocfckbybecpso b
xbpgbe.fx,”cpnbcf..b.t

Efpwqvoswqycjf.bcoqcebpiqopbcfo.cnbv.cgnbcifibecsocnspcnfo.p,crsgnqug
qibosoacsgtc“.qo’gcxqucabgcuicgnbo,”cOfpgfpxfcrbogcqoc qjifppsqofgbvx,
pbbsoacgnfgcnbcrfpcvbggsoacnspckbbgc.qrockeqjcgnbcpqkftc“Xqu’ebcsvv,cfo.
pqc.qo’gcaq;cgnbeb’pcoqcpu ncnueextcRnfgcnfybcxqucaqgcgnbeb?”

Nbcvqqwb.;csocnspcesangcnfo.cnbcnbv.cgnbcpneb.pcnbcnf.c ugckeqjcnsp
gequpbep,cgnbcpq w,cfo.cgnbcefapcqkcgnbciq wbgtcPqcnbcnf.chbbocfpvbbi
rsgncgnbjcsocnspcnfo.tcFkgberfe.pcebkvb gsoacuiqocsg,cnbcebjbjhbeb.cgnfg
nfvkcrfwsoacuicsocnspckbybe,cnbcnf.caefpib.cfvvcgnspcgsangvxcsocnspcnfo.
fo.cpqckfvvbocfpvbbicfafsot

“Vqqwcfgcgnbcefapcnb’pc qvvb gb.cfo.cpvbbipcrsgncgnbj,cfpcgnquancnbcnfp
aqgcnqv.cqkcfcgebfpuebttt”

Fo.cOfpgfpxfcrbogcqkkcsogqcnbecnxpgbes fvcasaavbt

Sopgfogvxcnbcgneupgcgnbjcfvvcuo.becnspcaebfgc qfgcfo.cksdb.cnsp
bxbpcsogbogvxcuiqocnbetcKfecfpcnbcrfpckeqjchbsoac fifhvbcqkcefgsqofv
ebkvb gsqocfgcgnfgcjqjbog,cnbckbvgcgnfgcoqcqobcrquv.chbnfybcvswbcgnfg
rsgncfcibepqocrnqcrfpcaqsoacgqchbcfeebpgb.tc“Hugtttcgnbciqvs b?”

“Xqu’.chbggbecnfybcpqjbcgbf!cXbp?cS’vvchesoacsg,cgnbeb’pcpqjbcvbkgt”

“OqtttcS’jcaqsoa;cS’vvcaqcfgcqo b,”cnbcjuggbeb.,cabggsoacqocgqcnspckbbgt

“Rnx,cxqu’vvcobybecabgc.qropgfsep!”

“Xbp,cS’vvcaqt”

“Fpcxqucivbfpbt”

Pnbckqvvqrb.cgnbciqegbecqugt

Fgcqo bcnbceupnb.cgqcgnbcvsangcgqcbdfjsobcgnbcpq wcfo.cgnbcefapt

“Gnbebcfebcpgfsop,chugcoqgcybexcoqgs bfhvb;cfvvc qybeb.crsgnc.seg,
fo.ceuhhb.cfo.cfvebf.xc.sp qvqueb.tcOqcqobcrnqcnf.coqcpupis sqoc quv.
.spgsoauspncfoxgnsoatcOfpgfpxfckeqjcfc.spgfo bc quv.coqgcnfybcoqgs b.,
gnfowcAq.!”cGnbocrsgncfcgebjqecnbcheqwbcgnbcpbfvcqkcgnbcoqgs bcfo.chbafo
ebf.soa;cnbcrfpcfcvqoacrnsvbcebf.soa,chbkqebcnbcuo.bepgqq.tcSgcrfpcfo
qe.sofexcpujjqopckeqjcgnbc.spges gciqvs b-pgfgsqocgqcfiibfecgnfgc.fxcfg
nfvk-ifpgcosobcfgcgnbcqkks bcqkcgnbc.spges gcpuibesogbo.bogt

“Hugcrnbocnfpcpu ncfcgnsoacnfiibob.?cScobybecnfybcfoxgnsoacgqc.qcrsgn
gnbciqvs b!cFo.crnxcmupgcgq-.fx?”cnbcgnquangcsocfaqospsoachbrsv.bejbogt
“Aqq.cAq.,cqovxcabgcsgcqybecpqqo!”

Nbcrfpckvsoasoacnsjpbvkcqocnspcwobbpcgqciefx,chugcheqwbcsogq
vfuangbe--oqgcfgcgnbcs.bfcqkciefxbe,chugcfgcnsjpbvkt

Nbchbafo,cnueesb.vxc.ebppsoatc“SkcS’jcvqpg,cScfjcvqpg,cSc.qo’gc feb!
PnfvvcSciugcgnbcpq wcqo?”cnbcpu..bovxcrqo.beb.,c“sgcrsvvcabgc.upgsbe
pgsvvcfo.cgnbcgef bpcrsvvchbcaqobt”

Hugcoqcpqqobecnf.cnbciugcsgcqocgnfocnbciuvvb.csgcqkkcfafsocsocvqfgnsoa
fo.cnqeeqetcNbciuvvb.csgcqkk,chugcebkvb gsoacgnfgcnbcnf.coqcqgnbecpq wp,
nbcis wb.csgcuicfo.ciugcsgcqocfafso--fo.cfafsocnbcvfuanb.t

“Gnfg’pcfvvc qoybogsqofv,cgnfg’pcfvvcebvfgsyb,cjbebvxcfcrfxcqkcvqqwsoa
fgcsg,”cnbcgnquangcsocfckvfpn,chugcqovxcqocgnbcgqicpuekf bcqkcnsp
jso.,crnsvbcnbcrfpcpnu..besoacfvvcqybe,c“gnbeb,cS’ybcaqgcsgcqo!cScnfyb
ksospnb.chxcabggsoacsgcqo!”

Hugcnspcvfuangbecrfpclus wvxckqvvqrb.chxc.bpifset

“Oq,csg’pcgqqcju nckqecjbttt”cnbcgnquangtcNspcvbapcpnqqwtc“Keqjckbfe,”
cnbcjuggbeb.tcNspcnbf.cprfjcfo.cf nb.crsgnckbybetc“Sg’pcfcges w!cGnbx
rfogcgqc.b qxcjbcgnbebcfo.c qokquo.cjbcqybecbybexgnsoa,”cnbcjupb.,cfp
nbcrbogcqugcqocgqcgnbcpgfsep--“gnbcrqepgcqkcsgcspcS’jcfvjqpg
vsang-nbf.b.tttcScjfxchvuegcqugcpqjbgnsoacpguis.ttt”

Qocgnbcpgfsepcnbcebjbjhbeb.cgnfgcnbcrfpcvbfysoacfvvcgnbcgnsoapcmupgcfp
gnbxcrbebcsocgnbcnqvbcsocgnbcrfvv,c“fo.cybexcvswbvx,csg’pcqociueiqpb
gqcpbfe ncrnbocS’jcqug,”cnbcgnquang,cfo.cpgqiib.cpnqegtcHugcnbcrfp
iqppbppb.chxcpu nc.bpifse,cpu nc xos spjcqkcjspbex,cskcqobcjfxcpqc fvv
sg,cgnfgcrsgncfcrfybcqkcnspcnfo.cnbcrbogcqotc“Qovxcgqcabgcsgcqybe!”

Socgnbcpgebbgcgnbcnbfgcrfpcsopukkbefhvbcfafso;coqgcfc.eqicqkcefsocnf.
kfvvbocfvvcgnqpbc.fxptcFafsoc.upg,ches wpcfo.cjqegfe,cfafsocgnbcpgbo n
keqjcgnbcpnqipcfo.ciqg-nqupbp,cfafsocgnbc.euowbocjbo,cgnbcKsoospn
ib.vfepcfo.cnfvk-heqwbo-.qroc fhptcGnbcpuocpnqobcpgefsangcsocnspcbxbp,
pqcgnfgcsgcnuegcnsjcgqcvqqwcqugcqkcgnbj,cfo.cnbckbvgcnspcnbf.caqsoa
equo.--fpcfcjfocsocfckbybecspcfigcgqckbbvcrnbocnbc qjbpcqugcsogqcgnb
pgebbgcqocfchesangcpuooxc.fxt

Rnbocnbcebf nb.cgnbcgueosoacsogqc_gnb_cpgebbg,csocfocfaqoxcqk
gebis.fgsqocnbcvqqwb.c.qrocsgtttcfgc_gnb_cnqupbtttcfo.cfgcqo bcfybegb.
nspcbxbpt

“Skcgnbxclubpgsqocjb,cibenfipcS’vvcpsjivxcgbvv,”cnbcgnquang,cfpcnbc.ebr
obfecgnbciqvs b-pgfgsqot

Gnbciqvs b-pgfgsqocrfpcfhqugcfclufegbecqkcfcjsvbcqkktcSgcnf.cvfgbvxchbbo
jqyb.cgqcobrceqqjpcqocgnbckquegnckvqqecqkcfcobrcnqupbtcNbcnf.chbbocqo b
kqecfcjqjbogcsocgnbcqv.cqkks bchugcvqoacfaqtcGueosoacsocfgcgnbcafgbrfx,
nbcpfrcqocgnbcesangcfckvsangcqkcpgfsepcrns ncfcibfpfogcrfpcjquogsoacrsgn
fchqqwcsocnspcnfo.tc“Fcnqupb-iqegbe,coqc.quhg;cpqcgnbo,cgnbcqkks bcsp
nbeb,”cfo.cnbchbafocfp bo.soacgnbcpgfsepcqocgnbc nfo btcNbc.s.coqgcrfog
gqcfpwclubpgsqopcqkcfoxqobt

“S’vvcaqcso,ckfvvcqocjxcwobbp,cfo.c qokbppcbybexgnsoattt”cnbcgnquang,cfp
nbcebf nb.cgnbckquegnckvqqet

Gnbcpgfse fpbcrfpcpgbbi,cofeeqrcfo.cfvvcpvqiixcrsgnc.segxcrfgbetcGnb
wsg nbopcqkcgnbckvfgpcqibob.cqocgqcgnbcpgfsepcfo.cpgqq.cqibocfvjqpg
gnbcrnqvbc.fxtcPqcgnbebcrfpcfckbfekuvcpjbvvcfo.cnbfgtcGnbcpgfse fpb
rfpc eqr.b.crsgnciqegbepcaqsoacuicfo.c.qrocrsgncgnbsechqqwpcuo.becgnbse
fejp,ciqvs bjbo,cfo.cibepqopcqkcfvvcpqegpcfo.chqgncpbdbptcGnbc.qqecqk
gnbcqkks b,cgqq,cpgqq.crs.bcqibotcIbfpfogpcpgqq.crfsgsoacrsgnsotcGnbeb,
gqq,cgnbcnbfgcrfpcpgskvsoacfo.cgnbebcrfpcfcps wbosoacpjbvvcqkckebpn
ifsogcfo.cpgfvbcqsvckeqjcgnbcobrvxc.b qefgb.ceqqjpt

Fkgbecrfsgsoacfcvsggvb,cnbc.b s.b.cgqcjqybckqerfe.csogqcgnbcobdgceqqjt
Fvvcgnbceqqjpcrbebcpjfvvcfo.cvqr-isg nb.tcFckbfekuvcsjifgsbo bc.ebrcnsj
qocfo.cqotcOqcqobcifs.cfggbogsqocgqcnsjtcSocgnbcpb qo.ceqqjcpqjb
 vbewpcpfgcresgsoa,c.ebppb.cnfe.vxchbggbecgnfocnbcrfp,cfo.cefgnbecf
lubbe-vqqwsoacpbgtcNbcrbogcuicgqcqobcqkcgnbjt

“Rnfgcspcsg?”

Nbcpnqrb.cgnbcoqgs bcnbcnf.ceb bsyb.t

“Xqucfebcfcpgu.bog?”cgnbcjfocfpwb.,cavfo soacfgcgnbcoqgs bt

“Xbp,ckqejbevxcfcpgu.bogt”

Gnbc vbewcvqqwb.cfgcnsj,chugcrsgnqugcgnbcpvsangbpgcsogbebpgtcNbcrfpcf
ifegs uvfevxcuowbjigcibepqocrsgncgnbcvqqwcqkcfcksdb.cs.bfcsocnspcbxbt

“Gnbebcrquv.chbcoqcabggsoacfoxgnsoacqugcqkcnsj,chb fupbcnbcnfpcoq
sogbebpgcsocfoxgnsoa,”cgnquangcEfpwqvoswqyt

“Aqcsocgnbebcgqcgnbcnbf.c vbew,”cpfs.cgnbc vbew,ciqsogsoacgqrfe.pcgnb
kuegnbpgceqqjt

Nbcrbogcsogqcgnfgceqqj--gnbckquegncsocqe.be;csgcrfpcfcpjfvvceqqjcfo.
if wb.ckuvvcqkcibqivb,cefgnbechbggbec.ebppb.cgnfocsocgnbcqugbeceqqjpt
Fjqoacgnbjcrbebcgrqcvf.sbptcQob,ciqqevxc.ebppb.csocjqueosoa,cpfgcfgcgnb
gfhvbcqiiqpsgbcgnbc nsbkc vbew,cresgsoacpqjbgnsoacfgcnspc.s gfgsqot
Gnbcqgnbe,cfcybexcpgqug,chudqjcrqjfocrsgncfciueivspn-eb.,chvqg nxckf b,
bd bppsybvxcpjfegvxc.ebppb.crsgncfcheqq ncqocnbechqpqjcfpchsacfpcf
pfu be,crfpcpgfo.soacqocqobcps.b,cfiifebogvxcrfsgsoackqecpqjbgnsoat
Efpwqvoswqycgneupgcnspcoqgs bcuiqocgnbcnbf.c vbewtcGnbcvfggbecavfo b.
fgcsg,cpfs.:c“Rfsgcfcjsougb,”cfo.crbogcqocfggbo.soacgqcgnbcvf.xcso
jqueosoat

Nbchebfgnb.cjqebckebbvxtc“Sgc fo’gchbcgnfg!”

Hxc.baebbpcnbchbafocgqcebafsoc qoks.bo b,cnbcwbigcueasoacnsjpbvkcgqcnfyb
 quefabcfo.chbc fvjt

“Pqjbckqqvspnobpp,cpqjbcgeskvsoac febvbppobpp,cfo.cScjfxchbgefxcjxpbvk!
Njtttcsg’pcfcisgxcgnbeb’pcoqcfsecnbeb,”cnbcf..b.,c“sg’pcpgskvsoattttcSg
jfwbpcqob’pcnbf.c.szzsbecgnfocbybetttcfo.cqob’pcjso.cgqqttt”

Nbcrfpc qop squpcqkcfcgbeeshvbcsoobecguejqsvtcNbcrfpcfkefs.cqkcvqpsoa
nspcpbvk- qogeqv;cnbcgesb.cgqc fg ncfgcpqjbgnsoacfo.cksdcnspcjso.cqocsg,
pqjbgnsoaclusgbcseebvbyfog,chugcnbc quv.coqgcpu  bb.csocgnspcfgcfvvtcXbg
gnbcnbf.c vbewcaebfgvxcsogbebpgb.cnsj,cnbcwbigcnqisoacgqcpbbcgnequancnsj
fo.caubppcpqjbgnsoackeqjcnspckf bt

Nbcrfpcfcybexcxquoacjfo,cfhqugcgrqcfo.cgrbogx,crsgncfc.fewcjqhsvb
kf bcgnfgcvqqwb.cqv.becgnfocnspcxbfeptcNbcrfpckfpnsqofhvxc.ebppb.cfo.
kqiispn,crsgncnspcnfsecifegb.csocgnbcjs..vb,crbvvc qjhb.cfo.ciqjf.b.,
fo.crqebcfcoujhbecqkcesoapcqocnspcrbvv-p euhhb.cksoabepcfo.cfcaqv.c nfso
qocnspcrfspg qfgtcNbcpfs.cfc quivbcqkcrqe.pcsocKebo ncgqcfckqebsaobecrnq
rfpcsocgnbceqqj,cfo.cpfs.cgnbjckfsevxc qeeb gvxt

“VuspbcSyfoqyof,cxquc focpsgc.qro,”cnbcpfs.c fpufvvxcgqcgnb
afsvx-.ebppb.,ciueivb-kf b.cvf.x,crnqcrfpcpgsvvcpgfo.soacfpcgnquancoqg
yboguesoacgqcpsgc.qro,cgnquancgnbebcrfpcfc nfsechbps.bcnbet

“S nc.fowb,”cpfs.cgnbcvfggbe,cfo.cpqkgvx,crsgncfceupgvbcqkcpsvwcpnbcpfow
sogqcgnbc nfsetcNbecvsangchvubc.ebppcgesjjb.crsgncrnsgbcvf bckvqfgb.
fhqugcgnbcgfhvbcvswbcfocfse-hfvvqqocfo.cksvvb.cfvjqpgcnfvkcgnbceqqjtcPnb
pjbvgcqkcp bogtcHugcpnbcrfpcqhysqupvxcbjhfeefppb.cfgcksvvsoacnfvk
gnbceqqjcfo.cpjbvvsoacpqcpgeqoavxcqkcp bog;cfo.cgnquancnbecpjsvbcrfp
sjiu.bogcfpcrbvvcfpc esoasoa,csgchbgefxb.cbys.bogcuobfpsobppt

Gnbcvf.xcsocjqueosoacnf.c.qobcfgcvfpg,cfo.caqgcuitcFvvcfgcqo b,crsgn
pqjbcoqspb,cfocqkks becrfvwb.csocybexcmfuogsvx,crsgncfcib uvsfecprsoacqk
nspcpnquv.bepcfgcbf ncpgbitcNbcgqppb.cnspc q wf.b.c ficqocgnbcgfhvbcfo.
pfgc.qrocsocfocbfpx- nfsetcGnbcpjfvvcvf.xciqpsgsybvxcpwsiib.ckeqjcnbe
pbfgcqocpbbsoacnsj,cfo.ckbvvcgqc uegpxsoacsocfcpqegcqkcb pgfpx;chugcgnb
qkks becgqqwcoqgcgnbcpjfvvbpgcoqgs bcqkcnbe,cfo.cpnbc.s.coqgcyboguebcgq
psgc.qrocfafsocsocnspciebpbo btcNbcrfpcgnbcfppspgfogcpuibesogbo.bogtcNb
nf.cfceb..spncjqupgf nbcgnfgcpgqq.cqugcnqeszqogfvvxcqocbf ncps.bcqkcnsp
kf b,cfo.cbdgebjbvxcpjfvvckbfguebp,cbdiebppsybcqkcoqgnsoacju ncbd big
fc begfsocsopqvbo btcNbcvqqwb.cfpwfo bcfo.cefgnbecso.saofogvxcfg
Efpwqvoswqy;cnbcrfpcpqcybexchf.vxc.ebppb.,cfo.csocpisgbcqkcnsp
nujsvsfgsoaciqpsgsqo,cnspchbfesoacrfpchxcoqcjbfopcsocwbbisoacrsgncnsp
 vqgnbptcEfpwqvoswqycnf.cuorfesvxcksdb.cfcybexcvqoacfo.c.seb gcvqqwcqo
nsj,cpqcgnfgcnbckbvgciqpsgsybvxcfkkeqogb.t

“Rnfgc.qcxqucrfog?”cnbcpnqugb.,cfiifebogvxcfpgqospnb.cgnfgcpu ncfcefaab.
kbvvqrcrfpcoqgcfoosnsvfgb.chxcgnbcjfmbpgxcqkcnspcavfo bt

“Scrfpcpujjqob.tttchxcfcoqgs bttt”cEfpwqvoswqyckfvgbeb.t

“Kqecgnbceb qybexcqkcjqobxc.ub,ckeqjc_gnbcpgu.bog_,”cgnbcnbf.c vbew
sogbekbeb.cnueesb.vx,cgbfesoacnsjpbvkckeqjcnspcifibeptc“Nbeb!”cfo.cnb
kvuoacEfpwqvoswqycfc.q ujbogcfo.ciqsogb.cqugcgnbcivf btc“Ebf.cgnfg!”

“Jqobx?cRnfgcjqobx?”cgnquangcEfpwqvoswqy,c“hugtttcgnbotttcsg’pc begfsovx
oqgc_gnfg_t”

Fo.cnbcgebjhvb.crsgncmqxtcNbckbvgcpu..bocsogbopbcso.bp eshfhvbcebvsbktcF
vqf.crfpcvskgb.ckeqjcnspchf wt

“Fo.ciefx,crnfgcgsjbcrbebcxquc.seb gb.cgqcfiibfe,cpse?”cpnqugb.cgnb
fppspgfogcpuibesogbo.bog,cpbbjsoackqecpqjbcuowoqrocebfpqocjqebcfo.cjqeb
faaesbyb.tc“Xqucfebcgqv.cgqc qjbcfgcosob,cfo.coqrcsg’pcgrbvyb!”

“Gnbcoqgs bcrfpcqovxchequangcjbcfclufegbecqkcfocnquecfaq,”cEfpwqvoswqy
foprbeb.cvqu.vxcqybecnspcpnquv.betcGqcnspcqrocpueiespbcnb,cgqq,caebr
pu..bovxcfoaexcfo.ckquo.cfc begfsocivbfpuebcsocsgtc“Fo.csg’pcboquancgnfg
Scnfybc qjbcnbebcsvvcrsgnckbybet”

“Wso.vxcebkefsockeqjcpnqugsoa!”

“S’jcoqgcpnqugsoa,cS’jcpibfwsoacybexclusbgvx,csg’pcxqucrnqcfebcpnqugsoa
fgcjbtcS’jcfcpgu.bog,cfo.cfvvqrcoqcqobcgqcpnqugcfgcjbt”

Gnbcfppspgfogcpuibesogbo.bogcrfpcpqckuesqupcgnfgckqecgnbcksepgcjsougbcnb
 quv.cqovxcpivuggbecsofegs uvfgbvxtcNbcvbfib.cuickeqjcnspcpbfgt

“Hbcpsvbog!cXqucfebcsocfcaqybeojbogcqkks btc.qo’gchbcsjiu.bog,cpse!”

“Xqu’ebcsocfcaqybeojbogcqkks b,cgqq,”c esb.cEfpwqvoswqy,c“fo.cxqu’eb
pjqwsoacfc safebggbcfpcrbvvcfpcpnqugsoa,cpqcxqucfebcpnqrsoac.spebpib g
gqcfvvcqkcupt”

Nbckbvgcfocso.bp eshfhvbcpfgspkf gsqocfgcnfysoacpfs.cgnspt

Gnbcnbf.c vbewcvqqwb.cfgcnsjcrsgncfcpjsvbtcGnbcfoaexcfppspgfog
puibesogbo.bogcrfpcqhysqupvxc.sp qo begb.t

“Gnfg’pcoqgcxquechupsobpp!”cnbcpnqugb.cfgcvfpgcrsgncuoofguefvcvqu.obppt
“Wso.vxcjfwbcgnbc.b vfefgsqoc.bjfo.b.cqkcxqutcPnqrcnsjtcFvbdfo.e
Aesaqesbysg ntcGnbebcspcfc qjivfsogcfafsopgcxqu!cXquc.qo’gcifxcxque
.bhgp!cXqu’ebcfcksobchse.!”

HugcEfpwqvoswqycrfpcoqgcvspgbosoacoqr;cnbcnf.cbfabevxc vug nb.cfgcgnb
ifibe,csocnfpgbcgqckso.cfocbdivfofgsqotcNbcebf.csgcqo b,cfo.cfcpb qo.
gsjb,cfo.cpgsvvc.s.coqgcuo.bepgfo.t

“Rnfgcspcgnsp?”cnbcfpwb.cgnbcnbf.c vbewt

“Sgcspckqecgnbceb qybexcqkcjqobxcqocfocScQcU,cfcresgtcXqucjupg
bsgnbecifxcsg,crsgncfvvcbdibopbp,c qpgpcfo.cpqcqo,cqecasybcfcresggbo
.b vfefgsqocrnbocxquc focifxcsg,cfo.cfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcfocuo.begfwsoacoqg
gqcvbfybcgnbc fisgfvcrsgnqugcifxjbog,cfo.coqecgqcpbvvcqec qo bfvcxque
ieqibegxtcGnbc eb.sgqecspcfgcvshbegxcgqcpbvvcxquecieqibegx,cfo.cieq bb.
fafsopgcxqucf  qe.soacgqcgnbcvfrt”

“HugcStttcfjcoqgcsoc.bhgcgqcfoxqob!”

“Gnfg’pcoqgcquechupsobpptcNbeb,cfocScQcUckqecfcnuo.eb.cfo.ckskgbbo
equhvbp,cvbafvvxcfggbpgb.,cfo.c.ubckqecifxjbog,cnfpchbbochequangcup
kqeceb qybex,casybochxcxqucgqcgnbcrs.qrcqkcgnbcfppbppqecZfeosgpxo,cosob
jqognpcfaq,cfo.cifs.cqybechxcgnbcrs.qrcZfeosgpxocgqcqobcJetcG nbhfeqyt
Rbcgnbebkqebcpujjqocxqu,cnbebuiqot”

“Hugcpnbcspcjxcvfo.vf.x!”

“Fo.crnfgcskcpnbcspcxquecvfo.vf.x?”

Gnbcnbf.c vbewcvqqwb.cfgcnsjcrsgncfc qo.bp bo.soacpjsvbcqkc qjifppsqo,
fo.cfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcrsgncfc begfsocgesujin,cfpcfgcfcoqys bcuo.beckseb
kqecgnbcksepgcgsjb--fpcgnquancnbcrquv.cpfx:c“Rbvv,cnqrc.qcxquckbbvcoqr?”
cHugcrnfgc.s.cnbc febcoqrckqecfocScQcU,ckqecfcresgcqkceb qybex!cRfpcgnfg
rqegncrqeexsoacfhqugcoqr,crfpcsgcrqegncfggbogsqocbybo!cNbcpgqq.,cnb
ebf.,cnbcvspgbob.,cnbcfoprbeb.,cnbcbybocfpwb.clubpgsqopcnsjpbvk,chug
fvvcjb nfos fvvxtcGnbcgesujinfogcpbopbcqkcpb uesgx,cqkc.bvsybefo bckeqj
qybernbvjsoac.foabe,cgnfgcrfpcrnfgcksvvb.cnspcrnqvbcpquvcgnfgcjqjbog
rsgnqugcgnquangckqecgnbckugueb,crsgnqugcfofvxpsp,crsgnqugcpuiiqpsgsqop
qecpuejspbp,crsgnqugc.quhgpcfo.crsgnqugclubpgsqosoatcSgcrfpcfocsopgfog
qkckuvv,c.seb g,ciuebvxcsopgso gsybcmqxtcHugcfgcgnfgcybexcjqjbog
pqjbgnsoacvswbcfcgnuo.bepgqejcgqqwcivf bcsocgnbcqkks btcGnbcfppspgfog
puibesogbo.bog,cpgsvvcpnfwbochxcEfpwqvoswqy’pc.spebpib g,cpgsvvckujsoa
fo.cqhysqupvxcfodsqupcgqcwbbicuicnspcrquo.b.c.saosgx,ciquo b.cqocgnb
uokqeguofgbcpjfegcvf.x,crnqcnf.chbbocafzsoacfgcnsjcbybecpso bcnbc fjbcso
rsgncfocbd bb.soavxcpsvvxcpjsvbt

“Xqucpnfjbkuvcnuppx!”cnbcpnqugb.cpu..bovxcfgcgnbcgqicqkcnspcyqs btc(Gnb
vf.xcsocjqueosoacnf.cvbkgcgnbcqkks bt)c“Rnfgcrfpcaqsoacqocfgcxquecnqupb
vfpgcosang?cBn!cFc.spaef bcfafso,cxqu’ebcfcp fo.fvcgqcgnbcrnqvbcpgebbgt
Ksangsoacfo.c.esowsoacfafsotc.qcxqucrfogcgnbcnqupbcqkc qeeb gsqo?cRnx,
Scnfybcrfeob.cxqucgbocgsjbpcqybecgnfgcScrquv.coqgcvbgcxqucqkkcgnb
bvbybogn!cFo.cnbebcxqucfebcfafso,cfafso,cxqutttcxquttt!”

GnbcifibeckbvvcqugcqkcEfpwqvoswqy’pcnfo.p,cfo.cnbcvqqwb.crsv.vxcfgcgnb
pjfegcvf.xcrnqcrfpcpqcuo bebjqosqupvxcgebfgb.tcHugcnbcpqqocpfrcrnfgcsg
jbfog,cfo.cfgcqo bchbafocgqckso.ciqpsgsybcfjupbjbogcsocgnbcp fo.fvtcNb
vspgbob.crsgncivbfpueb,cpqcgnfgcnbcvqoab.cgqcvfuancfo.cvfuantttcfvvcnsp
obeybpcrbebcqocb.abt

“SvxfcIbgeqysg n!”cgnbcnbf.c vbewcrfpchbasoosoacfodsqupvx,chugcpgqiib.
pnqeg,ckqecnbcwobrckeqjcbdibesbo bcgnfgcgnbcboefab.cfppspgfogc quv.coqg
hbcpgqiib.cbd bigchxckqe bt

Fpckqecgnbcpjfegcvf.x,cfgcksepgcpnbciqpsgsybvxcgebjhvb.chbkqebcgnb
pgqejtcHug,cpgefoabcgqcpfx,cgnbcjqebcoujbequpcfo.cysqvbogcgnbcgbejpcqk
fhupbchb fjb,cgnbcjqebcfjsfhvbcpnbcvqqwb.,cfo.cgnbcjqebcpb.u gsybcgnb
pjsvbpcpnbcvfyspnb.cqocgnbcgbeeshvbcfppspgfogtcPnbcjqyb.cuobfpsvx,cfo.
 uegpsb.cso bppfogvx,crfsgsoacsjifgsbogvxckqecfc nfo bcqkciuggsoacsocnbe
rqe.:cfo.cfgcvfpgcpnbckquo.csgt

“Gnbebcrfpcoqcpqegcqkcoqspbcqecksangsoacsocjxcnqupb,cJetc figfso,”cpnb
ifggbeb.cfvvcfgcqo b,cvswbcibfpc.eqiisoa,cpibfwsoacEuppsfoc qoks.bogvx,
gnquancrsgncfcpgeqoacAbejfocf  bog,c“fo.coqcpqegcqkcp fo.fv,cfo.cnsp
nqoquec fjbc.euow,cfo.csg’pcgnbcrnqvbcgeugncScfjcgbvvsoa,cJetc figfso,
fo.cScfjcoqgcgqchvfjbttttcJsobcspcfocnqoquefhvbcnqupb,cJetc figfso,
fo.cnqoquefhvbchbnfysque,cJetc figfso,cfo.cScfvrfxp,cfvrfxpc.spvswbcfox
p fo.fvcjxpbvktcHugcnbc fjbclusgbcgsipx,cfo.cfpwb.ckqecgnebbchqggvbp
fafso,cfo.cgnbocnbcvskgb.cuicqobcvba,cfo.chbafocivfxsoacgnbcisfoqkqegb
rsgncqobckqqg,cfo.cgnfgcspcoqgcfgcfvvcesangcsocfocnqoquefhvbcnqupb,cfo.
nbc_afoz_cheqwbcgnbcisfoq,cfo.csgcrfpcybexchf.cjfoobepcso.bb.cfo.cScpfs.
pqtcFo.cnbcgqqwcuicfchqggvbcfo.chbafocnsggsoacbybexqobcrsgncsgtcFo.cgnbo
Sc fvvb.cgnbciqegbe,cfo.cWfevc fjb,cfo.cnbcgqqwcWfevcfo.cnsgcnsjcsocgnb
bxb;cfo.cnbcnsgcNboesbggbcsocgnbcbxb,cgqq,cfo.cafybcjbcksybcpvfipcqocgnb
 nbbwtcFo.csgcrfpcpqcuoabogvbjfovxcsocfocnqoquefhvbcnqupb,cJetc figfso,
fo.cScp ebfjb.tcFo.cnbcqibob.cgnbcrso.qrcqybecgnbc fofv,cfo.cpgqq.cso
gnbcrso.qr,cplubfvsoacvswbcfcvsggvbcisa;csgcrfpcfc.spaef btcGnbcs.bfcqk
plubfvsoacvswbcfcvsggvbcisacfgcgnbcrso.qrcsogqcgnbcpgebbg!cKsbcuiqocnsj!
Fo.cWfevciuvvb.cnsjcfrfxckeqjcgnbcrso.qrchxcnspc qfg,cfo.csgcspcgeub,
Jetc figfso,cnbcgqebc_pbsoceq w_tcFo.cgnbocnbcpnqugb.cgnfgc_jfocjupp_
ifxcnsjckskgbbocequhvbpc.fjfabptcFo.cSc.s.cifxcnsj,cJetc figfso,cksyb
equhvbpckqec_pbsoceq w_tcFo.cnbcspcfocuoabogvbjfovxcyspsgqecfo.c fupb.
fvvcgnbcp fo.fvtc‘Scrsvvcpnqrcxqucui,’cnbcpfs.,c‘kqecSc focresgbcgqcfvv
gnbcifibepcfhqugcxqut’”

“Gnbocnbcrfpcfocfugnqe?”

“Xbp,cJetc figfso,cfo.crnfgcfocuoabogvbjfovxcyspsgqecsocfocnqoquefhvb
nqupbtttt”

“Oqrcgnbo!cBoquan!cScnfybcgqv.cxqucfvebf.xttt”

“SvxfcIbgeqysg n!”cgnbcnbf.c vbewcebibfgb.cpsaosks fogvxt

Gnbcfppspgfogcavfo b.cefis.vxcfgcnsj;cgnbcnbf.c vbewcpvsangvxcpnqqwcnsp
nbf.t

“tttcPqcScgbvvcxqucgnsp,cjqpgcebpib gfhvbcVuspbcSyfoqyof,cfo.cScgbvvcsg
xquckqecgnbcvfpgcgsjb,”cgnbcfppspgfogcrbogcqotc“Skcgnbebcspcfcp fo.fv
socxquecnqoquefhvbcnqupbcqo bcfafso,cScrsvvciugcxqucxquepbvkcsocgnb
vq w-ui,cfpcsgcspc fvvb.csociqvsgbcpq sbgxtc.qcxqucnbfe?cPqcfcvsgbefex
jfo,cfocfugnqecgqqwcksybcequhvbpckqecnspc qfg-gfsvcsocfoc‘nqoquefhvb
nqupb’?cFcos bcpbg,cgnbpbcfugnqep!”

Fo.cnbc fpgcfc qogbjiguqupcavfo bcfgcEfpwqvoswqytc“Gnbebcrfpcfcp fo.fv
gnbcqgnbec.fxcsocfcebpgfuefog,cgqqtcFocfugnqecnf.cbfgbocnspc.soobecfo.
rquv.coqgcifx;c‘S’vvcresgbcfcpfgsebcqocxqu,’cpfxpcnbtcFo.cgnbebcrfp
foqgnbecqkcgnbjcqocfcpgbfjbecvfpgcrbbwcupb.cgnbcjqpgc.spaef bkuv
vfoaufabcgqcgnbcebpib gfhvbckfjsvxcqkcfc sysvc quo svvqe,cnspcrskbcfo.
.fuangbetcFo.cgnbebcrfpcqobcqkcgnbjcgueob.cqugcqkcfc qokb gsqobe’pcpnqi
gnbcqgnbec.fxtcGnbxcfebcvswbcgnfg,cfugnqep,cvsgbefexcjbo,cpgu.bogp,
gqro- esbepttttcIkqq!cXqucabgcfvqoa!cScpnfvvcvqqwcsocuiqocxqucjxpbvkcqob
.fxtcGnbocxqucnf.chbggbechbc febkuv!c.qcxqucnbfe?”

Rsgncnueesb.c.bkbebo b,cVuspbcSyfoqyofckbvvcgqc uegpxsoacsocfvv
.seb gsqop,cfo.cpqc uegpsb.cnbepbvkcgqcgnbc.qqetcHugcfgcgnbc.qqe,cpnb
pgujhvb.chf wrfe.pcfafsopgcfcaqq.-vqqwsoacqkks becrsgncfckebpn,cqibo
kf bcfo.cpivbo.s.cgns wckfsecrnspwbeptcGnspcrfpcgnbcpuibesogbo.bogcqk
gnbc.spges gcnsjpbvk,cOswq.sjcKqjsg ntcVuspbcSyfoqyofcjf.bcnfpgb
gqc uegpxcfvjqpgcgqcgnbcaequo.,cfo.crsgncjso soacvsggvbcpgbip,cpnb
kvuggbeb.cqugcqkcgnbcqkks bt

“Fafsocgnuo.becfo.cvsangosoa--fcnuees fob!”cpfs.cOswq.sjcKqjsg ncgqcSvxf
Ibgeqysg ncsocfc sysvcfo.ckesbo.vxcgqobtc“Xqucfebcfequpb.cfafso,cxqucfeb
kujsoacfafso!cScnbfe.csgcqocgnbcpgfsep!”

“Rbvv,crnfgcgnbo!”cSvxfcIbgeqysg nc.efrvb.crsgncabogvbjfovxcoqo nfvfo b;
fo.cnbcrfvwb.crsgncpqjbcifibepcgqcfoqgnbecgfhvb,crsgncfcmfuogxcprsoacqk
nspcpnquv.bepcfgcbf ncpgbitc“Nbeb,cskcxqucrsvvcwso.vxcvqqw:cfocfugnqe,
qecfcpgu.bog,cnfpchbbocqobcfgcvbfpg,c.qbpcoqgcifxcnspc.bhgp,cnfpcasybo
focScQcU,crqo’gc vbfecqugcqkcnspceqqj,cfo.c qjivfsogpcfebc qopgfogvx
hbsoacvq.ab.cfafsopgcnsj,cfo.cnbebcnbcnfpchbbocivbfpb.cgqcjfwbcfcieqgbpg
fafsopgcjxcpjqwsoacsocnspciebpbo b!cNbchbnfybpcvswbcfc f.cnsjpbvk,cfo.
mupgcvqqwcfgcnsj,civbfpbtcNbeb’pcgnbcabogvbjfo,cfo.cybexcfggef gsybcnb
sp!”

“Iqybegxcspcoqgcfcys b,cjxckesbo.,chugcrbcwoqrcxqucaqcqkkcvswbciqr.be,
xquc fo’gchbfecfcpvsang,cSc.febpfxcxqucgqqwcqkkbo bcfgcpqjbgnsoacfo.
rbogcgqqckfecxquepbvk,”c qogsoub.cOswq.sjcKqjsg n,cgueosoacfkkfhvxcgq
Efpwqvoswqytc“Hugcxqucrbebcreqoacgnbeb;cnbcspcfc fisgfvckbvvqr,cScfppueb
xqu,chugcbdivqpsyb,cbdivqpsyb!cNbcabgpcnqg,cksebpcui,chqsvpcqybe,cfo.coq
pgqiisoacnsj!cFo.cgnbocsg’pcfvvcqybe!cFo.cfgcgnbchqggqjcnb’pcfcnbfegcqk
aqv.!cNspcos wofjbcsocgnbcebasjbogcrfpcgnbcBdivqpsybcVsbugbofogtttt”

“Fo.crnfgcfcebasjbogcsgcrfp,cgqq,”c esb.cSvxfcIbgeqysg n,cju ncaefgsksb.
fgcgnspcfaebbfhvbchfogbe,cgnquancpgsvvcpuvwxt

Efpwqvoswqycnf.cfcpu..boc.bpsebcgqcpfxcpqjbgnsoacbd bigsqofvvxcivbfpfog
gqcgnbjcfvvtc“Bd upbcjb,c figfso,”cnbchbafocbfpsvx,cpu..bovxcf..ebppsoa
Oswq.sjcKqjsg n,c“rsvvcxqucbogbecsogqcjxciqpsgsqo?tttcScfjcebf.xcgq
fpwcife.qo,cskcScnfybchbbocsvv-jfoobeb.tcScfjcfciqqecpgu.bog,cps w
fo.cpnfggbeb.c(pnfggbeb.crfpcgnbcrqe.cnbcupb.)chxciqybegxtcScfjcoqg
pgu.xsoa,chb fupbcSc fooqgcwbbicjxpbvkcoqr,chugcScpnfvvcabgcjqobxttttcS
nfybcfcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbecsocgnbcieqyso bcqkcDtcGnbxcrsvvcpbo.csgcgq
jb,cfo.cScrsvvcifxtcJxcvfo.vf.xcspcfcaqq.-nbfegb.crqjfo,chugcpnbcspcpq
bdfpibefgb.cfgcjxcnfysoacvqpgcjxcvbppqop,cfo.coqgcifxsoacnbeckqecgnb
vfpgckquecjqognp,cgnfgcpnbc.qbpcoqgcbybocpbo.cuicjxc.soobetttcfo.cS
.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.cgnspcScQcUcfgcfvvtcPnbcspcfpwsoacjbcgqcifxcnbecqocgnsp
ScQcUtcNqrcfjcScgqcifxcnbe?cMu.abckqecxquepbvybp!ttt”

“Hugcgnfgcspcoqgcquechupsobpp,cxqucwoqr,”cgnbcnbf.c vbewcrfpcqhpbeysoat

“Xbp,cxbptcScibekb gvxcfaebbcrsgncxqutcHugcfvvqrcjbcgqcbdivfsottt”
cEfpwqvoswqyciugcsocfafso,cpgsvvcf..ebppsoacOswq.sjcKqjsg n,chugcgexsoa
nspchbpgcgqcf..ebppcSvxfcIbgeqysg ncfvpq,cgnquancgnbcvfggbecibepspgbogvx
fiibfeb.cgqchbceujjfasoacfjqoacnspcifibepcfo.cgqchbc qogbjiguqupvx
qhvsysqupcqkcnsjtc“FvvqrcjbcgqcbdivfsocgnfgcScnfybchbbocvsysoacrsgncnbe
kqecobfevxcgnebbcxbfepcfo.cfgcksepgtttcfgcksepgtttckqecrnxcpnquv.cScoqg
 qokbppcsg,cfgcgnbcybexchbasoosoacScieqjspb.cgqcjfeexcnbec.fuangbe,csg
rfpcfcybehfvcieqjspb,ckebbvxcasybotttcpnbcrfpcfcasevtttcso.bb.,cScvswb.
nbe,cgnquancScrfpcoqgcsocvqybcrsgncnbetttcfcxqugnkuvcfkkfsecsockf gttt
gnfgcsp,cScjbfocgqcpfx,cgnfgcjxcvfo.vf.xcafybcjbc eb.sgckebbvxcsocgnqpb
.fxp,cfo.cScvb.cfcvskbcqktttcScrfpcybexcnbb.vbppttt”

“Oqhq.xcfpwpcxquckqecgnbpbcibepqofvc.bgfsvp,cpse,crb’ybcoqcgsjbcgq
rfpgb,”cSvxfcIbgeqysg ncsogbeiqpb.cequanvxcfo.crsgncfcoqgbcqkcgesujin;
hugcEfpwqvoswqycpgqiib.cnsjcnqgvx,cgnquancnbcpu..bovxckquo.csg
bd bb.soavxc.skks uvgcgqcpibfwt

“Hugcbd upbcjb,cbd upbcjbtcSgcspckqecjbcgqcbdivfsotttcnqrcsgcfvv
nfiibob.tttcSocjxcgueotttcgnquancScfaebbcrsgncxqutttcsgcspcuoob bppfext
Hugcfcxbfecfaq,cgnbcasevc.sb.cqkcgxinuptcScebjfsob.cvq.asoacgnbebcfp
hbkqeb,cfo.crnbocjxcvfo.vf.xcjqyb.csogqcnbeciebpbogclufegbep,cpnbcpfs.
gqcjbtttcfo.csocfckesbo.vxcrfxtttcgnfgcpnbcnf.c qjivbgbcgeupgcsocjb,
hugcpgsvv,crquv.cScoqgcasybcnbecfocScQcUckqecqobcnuo.eb.cfo.ckskgbbo
equhvbp,cfvvcgnbc.bhgcScqrb.cnbetcPnbcpfs.cskcqovxcScafybcnbecgnfg,
pnbcrquv.cgeupgcjbcfafso,cfpcju ncfpcScvswb.,cfo.cgnfgcpnbcrquv.cobybe,
obybe--gnqpbcrbebcnbecqrocrqe.p--jfwbcupbcqkcgnfgcScQcUcgsvvcSc quv.cifx
qkcjxpbvktttcfo.coqr,crnbocScnfybcvqpgcjxcvbppqopcfo.cnfybcoqgnsoacgq
bfg,cpnbcgfwbpcf gsqocfafsopgcjbtcRnfgcfjcScgqcpfxcgqcgnfg?”

“Fvvcgnbpbcfkkb gsoac.bgfsvpcfebcoqchupsobppcqkcquept”cSvxfcIbgeqysg n
sogbeeuigb.ceu.bvxtc“Xqucjupgcasybcfcresggbocuo.begfwsoachugcfpckqecxque
vqybcfkkfsepcfo.cfvvcgnbpbcgefas cbybogp,crbcnfybcoqgnsoacgqc.qcrsgn
gnfgt”

“ qjbcoqrtttcxqucfebcnfepn,”cjuggbeb.cOswq.sjcKqjsg n,cpsggsoac.qrocfg
gnbcgfhvbcfo.cfvpqchbasoosoacgqcresgbtcNbcvqqwb.cfcvsggvbcfpnfjb.t

“Resgb!”cpfs.cgnbcnbf.c vbewcgqcEfpwqvoswqyt

“Resgbcrnfg?”cgnbcvfggbecfpwb.,caeukkvxt

“Scrsvvc.s gfgbcgqcxqut”

Efpwqvoswqyckfo sb.cgnfgcgnbcnbf.c vbewcgebfgb.cnsjcjqebc fpufvvxcfo.
 qogbjiguqupvxcfkgbecnspcpibb n,chugcpgefoabcgqcpfxcnbcpu..bovxckbvg
 qjivbgbvxcso.skkbebogcgqcfoxqob’pcqisosqo,cfo.cgnspcebyuvpsqocgqqw
ivf bcsocfckvfpn,csocqobcsopgfogtcSkcnbcnf.c feb.cgqcgnsowcfcvsggvb,
nbcrquv.cnfybchbbocfjfzb.cso.bb.cgnfgcnbc quv.cnfybcgfvwb.cgqcgnbjcvswb
gnfgcfcjsougbchbkqeb,ckqe soacnspckbbvsoapcuiqocgnbjtcFo.crnbebcnf.
gnqpbckbbvsoapc qjbckeqj?cOqrcskcgnbcrnqvbceqqjcnf.chbbocksvvb.,coqg
rsgnciqvs bcqkks bep,chugcrsgncgnqpbcobfebpgcfo.c.bfebpgcgqcnsj,cnb
rquv.coqgcnfybckquo.cqobcnujfocrqe.ckqecgnbj,cpqcbjigxcrfpcnspcnbfegtcF
avqqjxcpbopfgsqocqkcfaqospsoa,cbybevfpgsoacpqvsgu.bcfo.cebjqgbobpp,cgqqw
 qop squpckqejcsocnspcpquvtcSgcrfpcoqgcgnbcjbfoobppcqkcnspcpbogsjbogfv
bkkupsqopchbkqebcSvxfcIbgeqysg n,coqecgnbcjbfoobppcqkcgnbcvfggbe’p
gesujincqybecnsjcgnfgcnf.c fupb.cgnspcpu..bocebyuvpsqocsocnspcnbfegt
Qn,crnfgcnf.cnbcgqc.qcoqrcrsgncnspcqrochfpbobpp,crsgncfvvcgnbpbcibggx
yfosgsbp,cqkks bep,cAbejfocrqjbo,c.bhgp,ciqvs b-qkks bp?cSkcnbcnf.chbbo
pbogbo b.cgqchbchueogcfgcgnfgcjqjbog,cnbcrquv.coqgcnfybcpgseeb.,crquv.
nfe.vxcnfybcnbfe.cgnbcpbogbo bcgqcgnbcbo.tcPqjbgnsoacrfpcnfiibosoacgq
nsjcbogsebvxcobr,cpu..bocfo.cuowoqrotcSgcrfpcoqgcgnfgcnbcuo.bepgqq.,chug
nbckbvgc vbfevxcrsgncfvvcgnbcsogbopsgxcqkcpbopfgsqocgnfgcnbc quv.
obybecjqebcfiibfvcgqcgnbpbcibqivbcsocgnbciqvs b-qkks bcrsgncpbogsjbogfv
bkkupsqopcvswbcnspceb bogcqughuepg,cqecrsgncfoxgnsoacrnfgbybe;cfo.cgnfg
skcgnbxcnf.chbbocnspcqrocheqgnbepcfo.cpspgbepcfo.coqgciqvs b-qkks bep,
sgcrquv.cnfybchbbocuggbevxcqugcqkcgnbclubpgsqocgqcfiibfvcgqcgnbjcsocfox
 se ujpgfo bcqkcvskbtcNbcnf.cobybecbdibesbo b.cpu ncfcpgefoabcfo.cfrkuv
pbopfgsqotcFo.crnfgcrfpcjqpgcfaqospsoa--sgcrfpcjqebcfcpbopfgsqocgnfocf
 qo bigsqocqecs.bf,cfc.seb gcpbopfgsqo,cgnbcjqpgcfaqospsoacqkcfvvcgnb
pbopfgsqopcnbcnf.cwoqrocsocnspcvskbt

Gnbcnbf.c vbewchbafoc.s gfgsoacgqcnsjcgnbcupufvckqejcqkc.b vfefgsqo,
gnfgcnbc quv.coqgcifx,cgnfgcnbcuo.begqqwcgqc.qcpqcfgcfckuguebc.fgb,cgnfg
nbcrquv.coqgcvbfybcgnbcgqro,coqecpbvvcnspcieqibegx,cfo.cpqcqot

“Hugcxquc fo’gcresgb,cxquc focnfe.vxcnqv.cgnbcibo,”cqhpbeyb.cgnbcnbf.
 vbew,cvqqwsoacrsgnc uesqpsgxcfgcEfpwqvoswqytc“Febcxqucsvv?”

“Xbp,cScfjcas..xtcAqcqo!”

“Gnfg’pcfvvtcPsaocsgt”

Gnbcnbf.c vbewcgqqwcgnbcifibe,cfo.cgueob.cgqcfggbo.cgqcqgnbept

Efpwqvoswqycafybchf wcgnbcibo;chugcsopgbf.cqkcabggsoacuicfo.caqsoacfrfx,
nbciugcnspcbvhqrpcqocgnbcgfhvbcfo.ciebppb.cnspcnbf.csocnspcnfo.ptcNb
kbvgcfpcskcfcofsvcrbebchbsoac.esybocsogqcnspcpwuvvtcFcpgefoabcs.bf
pu..bovxcq  ueeb.cgqcnsj,cgqcabgcuicfgcqo b,cgqcaqcuicgqcOswq.sj
Kqjsg n,cfo.cgbvvcnsjcbybexgnsoacgnfgcnf.cnfiibob.cxbpgbe.fx,cfo.cgnbo
gqcaqcrsgncnsjcgqcnspcvq.asoapcfo.cgqcpnqrcnsjcgnbcgnsoapcsocgnbcnqvb
socgnbc qeobetcGnbcsjiuvpbcrfpcpqcpgeqoacgnfgcnbcaqgcuickeqjcnspcpbfg
gqc feexcsgcqugtc“Nf.o’gcSchbggbecgnsowcfcjsougb?”ckvfpnb.cgnequancnsp
jso.tc“Oq,chbggbec fpgcqkkcgnbchue.bocrsgnqugcgnsowsoat”cHugcfvvcfgcqo b
nbcpgqq.cpgsvv,ceqqgb.cgqcgnbcpiqgtcOswq.sjcKqjsg ncrfpcgfvwsoacbfabevx
rsgncSvxfcIbgeqysg n,cfo.cgnbcrqe.pcebf nb.cnsj:

“Sg’pcsjiqppshvb,cgnbx’vvchqgnchbcebvbfpb.tcGqchbasocrsgn,cgnbcrnqvb
pgqexc qogef.s gpcsgpbvktcRnxcpnquv.cgnbxcnfybc fvvb.cgnbciqegbe,cskcsg
nf.chbbocgnbsec.qsoa?cGqcsokqejcfafsopgcgnbjpbvybp?cQecfpcfchvso.?cOq,
gnfgcrquv.chbcgqqc uoosoa!cHbps.bp,cIbpgexfwqy,cgnbcpgu.bog,crfpcpbbocfg
gnbcafgbchxchqgncgnbciqegbepcfo.cfcrqjfocfpcnbcrbogcsotcNbcrfpcrfvwsoa
rsgncgnebbckesbo.p,crnqcvbkgcnsjcqovxcfgcgnbcafgb,cfo.cnbcfpwb.cgnb
iqegbepcgqc.seb gcnsj,csocgnbciebpbo bcqkcgnbckesbo.ptcOqr,crquv.cnb
nfybcfpwb.cnspcrfxcskcnbcnf.chbbocaqsoacrsgncpu ncfocqhmb g?cFpckqe
Wq n,cnbcpibogcnfvkcfocnquecfgcgnbcpsvybepjsgn’pchbvqr,chbkqebcnbcrbog
uicgqcgnbcqv.crqjfocfo.cnbcvbkgcnsjcfgcbdf gvxcfclufegbecgqcbsangtcOqr
mupgc qops.bettt”

“Hugcbd upbcjb,cnqrc.qcxqucbdivfsocgnspc qogef.s gsqo?cGnbxcpgfgb
gnbjpbvybpcgnfgcgnbxcwoq wb.cfo.cgnbc.qqecrfpcvq wb.;cxbgcgnebbcjsougbp
vfgbecrnbocgnbxcrbogcuicrsgncgnbciqegbe,csgcgueob.cqugcgnbc.qqecrfp
uokfpgbob.t”

“Gnfg’pcmupgcsg;cgnbcjue.bebecjupgcnfybchbbocgnbebcfo.chqvgb.cnsjpbvk
so;cfo.cgnbx’.cnfybc fuangcnsjckqecfc begfsogxcskcWq ncnf.coqgchbbo
focfppcfo.caqobcgqcvqqwckqecgnbciqegbecgqqtc_Nb_cjupgcnfybcpbszb.cgnb
sogbeyfvcgqcabgc.qropgfsepcfo.cpvsichxcgnbjcpqjbnqrtcWq ncwbbipc eqppsoa
nsjpbvkcfo.cpfxsoa:c‘SkcScnf.chbbocgnbeb,cnbcrquv.cnfybcmujib.cqugcfo.
wsvvb.cjbcrsgncnspcfdbt’cNbcspcaqsoacgqcnfybcfcgnfowpasysoacpbeys b--nf,
nf!”

“Fo.coqcqobcpfrcgnbcjue.bebe?”

“Gnbxcjsangcrbvvcoqgcpbbcnsj;cgnbcnqupbcspcfcebauvfecOqfn’pcFew,”cpfs.
gnbcnbf.c vbew,crnqcrfpcvspgbosoat

“Sg’pc vbfe,clusgbc vbfe,”cOswq.sjcKqjsg ncebibfgb.crfejvxt

“Oq,csgcspcfoxgnsoachugc vbfe,”cSvxfcIbgeqysg ncjfsogfsob.t

Efpwqvoswqycis wb.cuicnspcnfgcfo.crfvwb.cgqrfe.pcgnbc.qqe,chugcnbc.s.
oqgcebf ncsgtttt

Rnbocnbceb qybeb.c qop squpobpp,cnbckquo.cnsjpbvkcpsggsoacsocfc nfse,
puiiqegb.chxcpqjbqobcqocgnbcesangcps.b,crnsvbcpqjbqobcbvpbcrfpcpgfo.soa
qocgnbcvbkg,cnqv.soacfcxbvvqrspncavfppcksvvb.crsgncxbvvqrcrfgbe,cfo.
Oswq.sjcKqjsg ncpgfo.soachbkqebcnsj,cvqqwsoacsogbogvxcfgcnsjtcNbcaqgcui
keqjcgnbc nfset

“Rnfg’pcgnsp?cFebcxqucsvv?”cOswq.sjcKqjsg ncfpwb.,cefgnbecpnfeivxt

“Nbc quv.cnfe.vxcnqv.cnspcibocrnbocnbcrfpcpsaosoa,”cpfs.cgnbcnbf.c vbew,
pbggvsoachf wcsocnspcivf b,cfo.cgfwsoacuicnspcrqewcfafsot

“Nfybcxquchbbocsvvcvqoa?”c esb.cSvxfcIbgeqysg nckeqjcnspcivf b,crnbeb
nb,cgqq,crfpcvqqwsoacgnequancifibeptcNbcnf.,cqkc quepb,c qjbcgqcvqqwcfg
gnbcps wcjfocrnbocnbckfsogb.,chugcebgseb.cfgcqo bcrnbocnbceb qybeb.t

“Pso bcxbpgbe.fx,”cjuggbeb.cEfpwqvoswqycsocebivxt

“.s.cxqucaqcqugcxbpgbe.fx?”

“Xbpt”

“Gnquancxqucrbebcsvv?”

“Xbpt”

“Fgcrnfgcgsjb?”

“Fhqugcpbybot”

“Fo.crnbebc.s.cxqucaq,cjfxcScfpw?”

“Fvqoacgnbcpgebbgt”

“Pnqegcfo.c vbfet”

Efpwqvoswqy,crnsgbcfpcfcnfo.wbe nsbk,cnf.cfoprbeb.cpnfeivx,cmbewsvx,
rsgnqugc.eqiisoacnspchvf wckbybespncbxbpchbkqebcSvxfcIbgeqysg n’pcpgfebt

“Nbc focp fe bvxcpgfo.cuiesangtcFo.cxquttt”cOswq.sjcKqjsg ncrfp
hbasoosoat

“Oqcjfggbe,”cSvxfcIbgeqysg ncieqoquo b.cefgnbecib uvsfevxt

Oswq.sjcKqjsg ncrquv.cnfybcjf.bcpqjbckuegnbecieqgbpg,chugcavfo soacfg
gnbcnbf.c vbewcrnqcrfpcvqqwsoacybexcnfe.cfgcnsj,cnbc.s.coqgcpibfwtcGnbeb
rfpcfcpu..bocpsvbo btcSgcrfpcpgefoabt

“Ybexcrbvv,cgnbo,”c qo vu.b.cSvxfcIbgeqysg n,c“rbcrsvvcoqgc.bgfsocxqut”

EfpwqvoswqycrbogcqugtcNbc fuangcgnbcpquo.cqkcbfabec qoybepfgsqocqocnsp
.bifegueb,cfo.cfhqybcgnbcebpgceqpbcgnbclubpgsqosoacyqs bcqkcOswq.sj
Kqjsg ntcSocgnbcpgebbg,cnspckfsogobppcifppb.cqkkc qjivbgbvxt

“Fcpbfe n--gnbebcrsvvchbcfcpbfe ncfgcqo b,”cnbcebibfgb.cgqcnsjpbvk,
nueexsoacnqjbtc“Gnbcheugbp!cgnbxcpupib gt”

Nspckqejbecgbeeqecjfpgbeb.cnsjc qjivbgbvxcfafsot



 NFIGBEcSS

“Fo.crnfgcskcgnbebcnfpchbbocfcpbfe ncfvebf.x?cRnfgcskcSckso.cgnbjcsocjx
eqqj?”

HugcnbebcrfpcnspceqqjtcOqgnsoacfo.coqcqobcsocsgtcOqcqobcnf.cibbib.csot
BybocOfpgfpxfcnf.coqgcgqu nb.csgtcHugcnbfybop!cnqrc quv.cnbcnfybcvbkg
fvvcgnqpbcgnsoapcsocgnbcnqvb?

Nbceupnb.cgqcgnbc qeobe,cpvsiib.cnspcnfo.cuo.becgnbcifibe,ciuvvb.cgnb
gnsoapcqugcfo.cvsob.cnspciq wbgpcrsgncgnbjtcGnbebcrbebcbsangcfegs vbpcso
fvv:cgrqcvsggvbchqdbpcrsgncbfe-esoapcqecpqjbgnsoacqkcgnbcpqeg,cnbcnfe.vx
vqqwb.cgqcpbb;cgnbockquecpjfvvcvbfgnbec fpbptcGnbebcrfpcfc nfso,cgqq,
jbebvxcrefiib.csocobrpifibecfo.cpqjbgnsoacbvpbcsocobrpifibe,cgnfgcvqqwb.
vswbcfc.b qefgsqottttcNbciugcgnbjcfvvcsocgnbc.skkbebogciq wbgpcqkcnsp
qybe qfg,cfo.cgnbcebjfsosoaciq wbgcqkcnspcgequpbep,cgexsoacgqc qo bfv
gnbjcfpcju ncfpciqppshvbtcNbcgqqwcgnbciuepb,cgqqtcGnbocnbcrbogcqugcqk
nspceqqj,cvbfysoacgnbc.qqecqibotcNbcrfvwb.clus wvxcfo.cebpqvugbvx,cfo.
gnquancnbckbvgcpnfggbeb.,cnbcnf.cnspcpbopbpcfhqugcnsjtcNbcrfpcfkefs.cqk
iuepusg,cnbcrfpcfkefs.cgnfgcsocfoqgnbecnfvk-nque,cfoqgnbeclufegbecqkcfo
nquecibenfip,csopgeu gsqopcrquv.chbcsppub.ckqecnspciuepusg,cfo.cpqcfg
fvvc qpgp,cnbcjupgcns.bcfvvcgef bpchbkqebcgnbotcNbcjupgc vbfecbybexgnsoa
uicrnsvbcnbcpgsvvcnf.cpqjbcpgeboagn,cpqjbcebfpqosoaciqrbecvbkgcnsjtttt
Rnbebcrfpcnbcgqcaq?

Gnfgcnf.cvqoachbbocpbggvb.:c“Kvsoacgnbjcsogqcgnbc fofv,cfo.cfvvcgef bp
ns..bocsocgnbcrfgbe,cgnbcgnsoacrquv.chbcfgcfocbo.t”cPqcnbcnf.c.b s.b.cso
gnbcosangcqkcnspc.bvsesujcrnbocpbybefvcgsjbpcnbcnf.cnf.cgnbcsjiuvpbcgq
abgcuicfo.caqcfrfx,cgqcjfwbcnfpgb,cfo.cabgces.cqkcsgcfvvtcHugcgqcabg
es.cqkcsg,cgueob.cqugcgqchbcfcybexc.skks uvgcgfpwtcNbcrfo.beb.cfvqoa
gnbchfowcqkcgnbcBwfgbesosopwxc fofvckqecnfvkcfocnquecqecjqebcfo.cvqqwb.
pbybefvcgsjbpcfgcgnbcpgbipceuoosoac.qrocgqcgnbcrfgbe,chugcnbc quv.coqg
gnsowcqkc feexsoacqugcnspcivfo;cbsgnbecefkgpcpgqq.cfgcgnbcpgbip’cb.ab,
fo.crqjbocrbebcrfpnsoac vqgnbpcqocgnbj,cqechqfgpcrbebcjqqeb.cgnbeb,cfo.
ibqivbcrbebcprfejsoacbybexrnbebtcJqebqybecnbc quv.chbcpbbocfo.coqgs b.
keqjcgnbchfowpcqocfvvcps.bp;csgcrquv.cvqqwcpupis squpckqecfcjfocgqcaq
.qrocqociueiqpb,cpgqi,cfo.cgneqrcpqjbgnsoacsogqcgnbcrfgbetcFo.crnfgcsk
gnbchqdbpcrbebcgqckvqfgcsopgbf.cqkcpsowsoa?cFo.cqkc quepbcgnbxcrquv.t
Bybocfpcsgcrfp,cbybexqobcnbcjbgcpbbjb.cgqcpgfebcfo.cvqqwcequo.,cfpcsk
gnbxcnf.coqgnsoacgqc.qchugcgqcrfg ncnsjtc“Rnxcspcsg,cqec focsgchbcjx
kfo x?”cnbcgnquangt

Fgcvfpgcgnbcgnquangcpgeu wcnsjcgnfgcsgcjsangchbchbggbecgqcaqcgqcgnb
ObyftcGnbebcrbebcoqgcpqcjfoxcibqivbcgnbeb,cnbcrquv.chbcvbppcqhpbeyb.,
fo.csgcrquv.chbcjqebc qoybosbogcsocbybexcrfx,cfhqybcfvvcsgcrfpckuegnbe
qkktcNbcrqo.beb.cnqrcnbc quv.cnfybchbbocrfo.besoackqecfcaqq.cnfvk-nque,
rqeesb.cfo.cfodsqupcsocgnspc.foabequpcifpgcrsgnqugcgnsowsoacqkcsg
hbkqebtcFo.cgnfgcnfvk-nquecnbcnf.cvqpgcqybecfocseefgsqofvcivfo,cpsjivx
hb fupbcnbcnf.cgnquangcqkcsgcsoc.bvsesuj!cNbcnf.chb qjbcbdgebjbvxcfhpbog
fo.ckqeabgkuvcfo.cnbcrfpcfrfebcqkcsgtcNbc begfsovxcjupgcjfwbcnfpgbt

Nbcrfvwb.cgqrfe.pcgnbcObyfcfvqoacY----cIeqpib g,chugcqocgnbcrfx
foqgnbecs.bfcpgeu wcnsjtc“RnxcgqcgnbcObyf?cRquv.csgcoqgchbchbggbecgqcaq
pqjbrnbebckfecqkk,cgqcgnbcSpvfo.pcfafso,cfo.cgnbebcns.bcgnbcgnsoap
socpqjbcpqvsgfexcivf b,csocfcrqq.cqecuo.becfchupn,cfo.cjfewcgnbcpiqg
ibenfip?”cFo.cgnquancnbckbvgcso fifhvbcqkc vbfecmu.ajbog,cgnbcs.bf
pbbjb.cgqcnsjcfcpquo.cqobtcHugcnbcrfpcoqgc.bpgsob.cgqcaqcgnbebtcKqe
 qjsoacqugcqkcY----cIeqpib gcgqrfe.pcgnbcplufeb,cnbcpfrcqocgnbcvbkgcf
ifppfabcvbf.soachbgrbbocgrqchvfowcrfvvpcgqcfc quegxfe.tcQocgnbcesang
nfo.,cgnbchvfowcuornsgbrfpnb.crfvvcqkcfckque-pgqesb.cnqupbcpgebg nb.ckfe
sogqcgnbc queg;cqocgnbcvbkg,cfcrqq.bocnqfe.soacefocifefvvbvcrsgncsgckqe
grbogxcif bpcsogqcgnbc queg,cfo.cgnbocgueob.cpnfeivxcgqcgnbcvbkgtcNbeb
rfpcfc.bpbegb.ckbo b.-qkkcivf bcrnbebceuhhspncqkc.skkbebogcpqegpcrfp
vxsoatcFgcgnbcbo.cqkcgnbc queg,cgnbc qeobecqkcfcvqr,cpjuggx,cpgqobcpnb.,
fiifebogvxcifegcqkcpqjbcrqewpnqi,cibbib.ckeqjchbnso.cgnbcnqfe.soatcSg
rfpcieqhfhvxcfc feesfabchusv.be’pcqec feibogbe’pcpnb.;cgnbcrnqvbcivf b
keqjcgnbcbogefo bcrfpchvf wcrsgnc qfvc.upgtcNbebcrquv.chbcgnbcivf bcgq
gneqrcsg,cnbcgnquangtcOqgcpbbsoacfoxqobcsocgnbcxfe.,cnbcpvsiib.cso,cfo.
fgcqo bcpfrcobfecgnbcafgbcfcpsow,cpu ncfpcspcqkgbociugcsocxfe.pcrnbeb
gnbebcfebcjfoxcrqewjbocqec fh-.esybep;cfo.cqocgnbcnqfe.soacfhqybcnf.
hbbocp eshhvb.csoc nfvwcgnbcgsjb-nqoqueb.crsggs spj,c“Pgfo.soacnbeb
pges gvxckqehs..bot”cGnspcrfpcfvvcgnbchbggbe,ckqecgnbebcrquv.chbcoqgnsoa
pupis squpcfhqugcnspcaqsoacsotc“NbebcSc quv.cgneqrcsgcfvvcsocfcnbficfo.
abgcfrfx!”

Vqqwsoacequo.cqo bcjqeb,crsgncnspcnfo.cfvebf.xcsocnspciq wbg,cnbcoqgs b.
fafsopgcgnbcqugbecrfvv,chbgrbbocgnbcbogefo bcfo.cgnbcpsow,cfchsacuonbro
pgqob,crbsansoacibenfipcpsdgxciquo.ptcGnbcqgnbecps.bcqkcgnbcrfvvcrfpcf
pgebbgtcNbc quv.cnbfecifppbep-hx,cfvrfxpcoujbequpcsocgnfgcifeg,chugcnb
 quv.coqgchbcpbbockeqjcgnbcbogefo b,cuovbppcpqjbqobc fjbcsockeqjcgnb
pgebbg,crns ncjsangcrbvvcnfiibocso.bb.,cpqcgnbebcrfpcobb.cqkcnfpgbt

Nbchbogc.qrocqybecgnbcpgqob,cpbszb.cgnbcgqicqkcsgcksejvxcsochqgncnfo.p,
fo.cupsoacfvvcnspcpgeboagncgueob.csgcqybetcUo.becgnbcpgqobcrfpcfcpjfvv
nqvvqrcsocgnbcaequo.,cfo.cnbcsjjb.sfgbvxcbjigsb.cnspciq wbgcsogqcsgt
Gnbciuepbcvfxcfgcgnbcgqi,cfo.cxbgcgnbcnqvvqrcrfpcoqgcksvvb.cuitcGnbocnb
pbszb.cgnbcpgqobcfafsocfo.crsgncqobcgrspgcgueob.csgchf w,cpqcgnfgcsgcrfp
socgnbcpfjbciqpsgsqocfafso,cgnquancsgcpgqq.cfcybexcvsggvbcnsanbetcHug
nbcp efib.cgnbcbfegncfhqugcsgcfo.ciebppb.csgcfgcgnbcb.abpcrsgncnspckqqgt
Oqgnsoac quv.chbcoqgs b.t

Gnbocnbcrbogcqug,cfo.cgueob.csogqcgnbcplufebtcFafsocfocsogbopb,
fvjqpgcuohbfefhvbcmqxcqybernbvjb.cnsjckqecfocsopgfog,cfpcsgcnf.cso
gnbciqvs b-qkks btc“Scnfybchuesb.cjxcgef wp!cFo.crnq,crnqc focgnsowcqk
vqqwsoacuo.becgnfgcpgqob?cSgcnfpchbbocvxsoacgnbebcjqpgcvswbvxcbybecpso b
gnbcnqupbcrfpchusvg,cfo.crsvvcvsbcfpcjfoxcxbfepcjqebtcFo.cskcsgcrbeb
kquo.,crnqcrquv.cgnsowcqkcjb?cSgcspcfvvcqybe!cOqc vub!”cFo.cnbcvfuanb.t
Xbp,cnbcebjbjhbeb.cgnfgcnbchbafocvfuansoacfcgnso,cobeyqupcoqspbvbpp
vfuan,cfo.crbogcqocvfuansoacfvvcgnbcgsjbcnbcrfpc eqppsoacgnbcplufebtcHug
rnbocnbcebf nb.cgnbcW----cHquvbyfe.crnbebcgrqc.fxpchbkqebcnbcnf.c qjb
uiqocgnfgcasev,cnspcvfuangbecpu..bovxc bfpb.tcQgnbecs.bfpc ebigcsogqcnsp
jso.tcNbckbvgcfvvcfgcqo bcgnfgcsgcrquv.chbcvqfgnpqjbcgqcifppcgnfgcpbfg
qocrns ncfkgbecgnbcasevcrfpcaqob,cnbcnf.cpfgcfo.ciqo.beb.,cfo.cgnfgcsg
rquv.chbcnfgbkuv,cgqq,cgqcjbbgcgnfgcrnspwbeb.ciqvs bjfocgqcrnqjcnbcnf.
asybocgnbcgrbogxc qib wp:c“.fjocnsj!”

Nbcrfvwb.,cvqqwsoacfhqugcnsjcfoaesvxcfo.c.spgef gb.vxtcFvvcnspcs.bfpcoqr
pbbjb.cgqchbc se vsoacequo.cpqjbcpsoavbciqsog,cfo.cnbckbvgcgnfgcgnbeb
ebfvvxcrfpcpu ncfciqsog,cfo.cgnfgcoqr,coqr,cnbcrfpcvbkgckf soacgnfg
iqsog--fo.ckqecgnbcksepgcgsjb,cso.bb.,c.uesoacgnbcvfpgcgrqcjqognpt

“.fjocsgcfvv!”cnbcgnquangcpu..bovx,csocfcksgcqkcuoaqybeofhvbckuext
“Skcsgcnfpchbauo,cgnbocsgcnfpchbauotcNfoacgnbcobrcvskb!cAqq.cVqe.,cnqr
pguis.csgcsp!tttcFo.crnfgcvsbpcScgqv.cgq-.fx!cNqrc.bpis fhvxcSckfrob.
uiqocgnfgcrebg nb.cSvxfcIbgeqysg n!cHugcgnfgcspcfvvckqvvx!cRnfgc.qcS
 febckqecgnbjcfvv,cfo.cjxckfrosoacuiqocgnbj!cSgcspcoqgcgnfgcfgcfvv!cSg
spcoqgcgnfgcfgcfvv!”

Pu..bovxcnbcpgqiib.;cfcobrcuggbevxcuobdib gb.cfo.cbd bb.soavxcpsjivb
lubpgsqocibeivbdb.cfo.chsggbevxc qokquo.b.cnsjt

“Skcsgcfvvcnfpcebfvvxchbboc.qobc.bvshbefgbvxcfo.coqgcs.sqgs fvvx,csk
Scebfvvxcnf.cfc begfsocfo.c.bksosgbcqhmb g,cnqrcspcsgcSc.s.coqgcbybo
avfo bcsogqcgnbciuepbcfo.c.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcScnf.cgnbeb,ckqecrns ncScnfyb
uo.beaqobcgnbpbcfaqosbp,cfo.cnfybc.bvshbefgbvxcuo.begfwbocgnspchfpb,
ksvgnxc.baef.soachupsobpp?cFo.cnbebcScrfogb.cfgcqo bcgqcgneqrcsogqcgnb
rfgbecgnbciuepbcgqabgnbecrsgncfvvcgnbcgnsoapcrns ncScnf.coqgcpbbo
bsgnbetttcnqr’pcgnfg?”

Xbp,cgnfgcrfpcpq,cgnfgcrfpcfvvcpqtcXbgcnbcnf.cwoqrocsgcfvvchbkqeb,cfo.
sgcrfpcoqgcfcobrclubpgsqockqecnsj,cbybocrnbocsgcrfpc.b s.b.csocgnbcosang
rsgnqugcnbpsgfgsqocfo.c qops.befgsqo,cfpcgnquancpqcsgcjupgchb,cfpcgnquan
sgc quv.coqgciqppshvxchbcqgnberspbttttcXbp,cnbcnf.cwoqrocsgcfvv,cfo.
uo.bepgqq.csgcfvv;csgcpuebvxcnf.cfvvchbbocpbggvb.cbybocxbpgbe.fxcfgcgnb
jqjbogcrnbocnbcrfpchbo.soacqybecgnbchqdcfo.ciuvvsoacgnbcmbrbv- fpbpcqug
qkcsgttttcXbp,cpqcsgcrfpt

“Sgcspchb fupbcScfjcybexcsvv,”cnbc.b s.b.caesjvxcfgcvfpg,c“Scnfybchbbo
rqeexsoacfo.ckebggsoacjxpbvk,cfo.cSc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcScfjc.qsoatttt
Xbpgbe.fxcfo.cgnbc.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fxcfo.cfvvcgnspcgsjbcScnfybchbbo
rqeexsoacjxpbvkttttcScpnfvvcabgcrbvvcfo.cScpnfvvcoqgcrqeexttttcHugcrnfg
skcSc.qo’gcabgcrbvvcfgcfvv?cAqq.cAq.,cnqrcps wcScfjcqkcsgcfvv!”

Nbcrfvwb.cqocrsgnqugcebpgsoatcNbcnf.cfcgbeeshvbcvqoasoackqecpqjb
.spgef gsqo,chugcnbc.s.coqgcwoqrcrnfgcgqc.q,crnfgcgqcfggbjigtcFcobr
qybernbvjsoacpbopfgsqocrfpcafsosoacjqebcfo.cjqebcjfpgbexcqybecnsj
bybexcjqjbog;cgnspcrfpcfocsjjbfpuefhvb,cfvjqpgcinxps fv,cebiuvpsqockqe
bybexgnsoacpueequo.soacnsj,cfocqhpgsofgb,cjfvsaofogckbbvsoacqkcnfgeb.t
Fvvcrnqcjbgcnsjcrbebcvqfgnpqjbcgqcnsj--nbcvqfgnb.cgnbseckf bp,cgnbse
jqybjbogp,cgnbsecabpguebptcSkcfoxqobcnf.cf..ebppb.cnsj,cnbckbvgcgnfgcnb
jsangcnfybcpifgcfgcnsjcqechsggbocnsjtttt

Nbcpgqiib.cpu..bovx,cqoc qjsoacqugcqocgnbchfowcqkcgnbcVsggvbcObyf,cobfe
gnbches.abcgqcYfppsvxbypwxcQpgeqytc“Rnx,cnbcvsybpcnbeb,csocgnfgcnqupb,”
cnbcgnquang,c“rnx,cScnfybcoqgc qjbcgqcEfzujsnsocqkcjxcqrocf  qe.!cNbeb
sg’pcgnbcpfjbcgnsoacqybecfafsottttcYbexcsogbebpgsoacgqcwoqr,cgnquan;
nfybcSc qjbcqociueiqpbcqecnfybcScpsjivxcrfvwb.cnbebchxc nfo b?cObybe
jso.,cScpfs.cgnbc.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fxcgnfgcScrquv.caqcfo.cpbbcnsjcgnb
.fxc_fkgbe_;crbvv,cfo.cpqcScrsvv!cHbps.bpcScebfvvxc fooqgcaqckuegnbe
oqrt”

NbcrbogcuicgqcEfzujsnso’pceqqjcqocgnbckskgnckvqqet

Gnbcvfggbecrfpcfgcnqjbcsocnspcafeebg,chupsvxcresgsoacfgcgnbcjqjbog,cfo.
nbcqibob.cgnbc.qqecnsjpbvktcSgcrfpckquecjqognpcpso bcgnbxcnf.cpbbocbf n
qgnbetcEfzujsnsocrfpcpsggsoacsocfcefaab.c.ebppsoa-aqro,crsgncpvsiibepcqo
nspchfebckbbg,cuowbjig,cuopnfybocfo.cuorfpnb.tcNspckf bcpnqrb.cpueiespbt

“Spcsgcxqu?”cnbc esb.tcNbcvqqwb.cnspc qjef.bcuicfo.c.qro;cgnbocfkgbecf
hesbkcifupb,cnbcrnspgvb.tc“Fpcnfe.cuicfpcfvvcgnfg!cRnx,cheqgnbe,cxqu’yb
 ugcjbcqug!”cnbcf..b.,cvqqwsoacfgcEfpwqvoswqy’pcefaptc“ qjbcpsgc.qro,
xqucfebcgseb.,cS’vvchbchquo.t”

Fo.crnbocnbcnf.cpuowc.qrocqocgnbcFjbes focvbfgnbecpqkf,crns ncrfp
socbybocrqepbc qo.sgsqocgnfocnspcqro,cEfzujsnsocpfrcfgcqo bcgnfgcnsp
yspsgqecrfpcsvvt

“Rnx,cxqucfebcpbesqupvxcsvv,c.qcxqucwoqrcgnfg?”cNbchbafockbbvsoacnsp
iuvpbtcEfpwqvoswqyciuvvb.cfrfxcnspcnfo.t

“Obybecjso.,”cnbcpfs.,c“Scnfybc qjbckqecgnsp:cScnfybcoqcvbppqopttttcS
rfogb.,tttchugcSc.qo’gcebfvvxcrfogcvbppqoptttt”

“HugcScpfx!cXqucfebc.bvsesqup,cxqucwoqr!”cEfzujsnsocqhpbeyb.,crfg nsoa
nsjc febkuvvxt

“Oq,cScfjcoqgt”

EfpwqvoswqycaqgcuickeqjcgnbcpqkftcFpcnbcnf.cjquogb.cgnbcpgfsepcgq
Efzujsnso’p,cnbcnf.coqgcebfvspb.cgnfgcnbcrquv.chbcjbbgsoacnspckesbo.
kf bcgqckf btcOqr,csocfckvfpn,cnbcwobr,cgnfgcrnfgcnbcrfpcvbfpgcqkcfvv
.spiqpb.ckqecfgcgnfgcjqjbogcrfpcgqchbckf bcgqckf bcrsgncfoxqobcsocgnb
rs.bcrqev.tcNspcpivbboceqpbcrsgnsocnsjtcNbcfvjqpgc nqwb.crsgncefabcfg
nsjpbvkcfpcpqqocfpcnbc eqppb.cEfzujsnso’pcgnebpnqv.t

“Aqq.-hxb,”cnbcpfs.cfheuigvx,cfo.crfvwb.cgqcgnbc.qqet

“Pgqi,cpgqi!cXquclubbeckspnt”

“Sc.qo’gcrfogcgq,”cpfs.cgnbcqgnbe,cfafsociuvvsoacfrfxcnspcnfo.t

“Gnbocrnxcgnbc.bysvcnfybcxquc qjb?cFebcxqucjf.,cqecrnfg?cRnx,cgnsp
sptttcfvjqpgcsopuvgsoa!cScrqo’gcvbgcxqucaqcvswbcgnfgt”

“Rbvv,cgnbo,cSc fjbcgqcxquchb fupbcScwoqrcoqcqobchugcxqucrnqc quv.
nbvitttcgqchbasotttchb fupbcxqucfebcwso.becgnfocfoxqob-- vbybebe,cS
jbfo,cfo.c focmu.abtttcfo.coqrcScpbbcgnfgcScrfogcoqgnsoatc.qcxqucnbfe?
Oqgnsoacfgcfvvtttcoqcqob’pcpbeys bptttcoqcqob’pcpxjifgnxtcScfjchx
jxpbvktttcfvqobtc qjb,cgnfg’pcboquantcVbfybcjbcfvqobt”

“Pgfxcfcjsougb,cxqucprbbi!cXqucfebcfcibekb gcjf.jfotcFpcxqucvswbckqecfvv
Sc febtcScnfybcoqcvbppqop,c.qcxqucpbb,cfo.cSc.qo’gc febcfhqugcgnfg,chug
gnbeb’pcfchqqwpbvvbe,cNbeuysjqy--fo.cnbcgfwbpcgnbcivf bcqkcfcvbppqot
Scrquv.coqgcbd nfoabcnsjckqecksybcvbppqoptcNb’pc.qsoaciuhvspnsoacqkcf
wso.,cfo.csppusoacofguefvcp sbo bcjfoufvpcfo.crnfgcfc se uvfgsqocgnbx
nfyb!cGnbcybexcgsgvbpcfebcrqegncgnbcjqobx!cXqucfvrfxpcjfsogfsob.cgnfgcS
rfpcfckqqv,chugchxcMqyb,cjxchqx,cgnbebcfebcaebfgbeckqqvpcgnfocScfj!
Oqrcnbcspcpbggsoacuickqechbsoacf.yfo b.,coqgcgnfgcnbcnfpcfocsowvsoacqk
foxgnsoa,chug,cqkc quepb,cScbo quefabcnsjtcNbebcfebcgrqcpsaofguebpcqk
gnbcAbejfocgbdg--socjxcqisosqo,cgnbc eu.bpgc nfevfgfospj;csgc.sp uppbp
gnbclubpgsqo,c‘Spcrqjfocfcnujfochbsoa?’cFo.,cqkc quepb,cgesujinfogvx
ieqybpcgnfgcpnbcsptcNbeuysjqycspcaqsoacgqchesoacqugcgnspcrqewcfpcf
 qogeshugsqocgqcgnbcrqjfoclubpgsqo;cScfjcgefopvfgsoacsg;cnbcrsvvcbdifo.
gnbpbcgrqcfo.cfcnfvkcpsaofguebpcsogqcpsd,crbcpnfvvcjfwbcuicfcaqeabqup
gsgvbcnfvkcfcifabcvqoacfo.chesoacsgcqugcfgcnfvkcfcequhvbtcSgcrsvvc.q!cNb
ifxpcjbcpsdcequhvbpcgnbcpsaofgueb,csgcrqewpcqugcgqcfhqugckskgbbocequhvbp
kqecgnbcmqh,cfo.cS’ybcnf.cpsdcfvebf.xcsocf.yfo btcRnbocrbcnfybcksospnb.
gnsp,crbcfebcaqsoacgqchbasocfcgefopvfgsqocfhqugcrnfvbp,cfo.cgnbocpqjbcqk
gnbc.uvvbpgcp fo.fvpcqugcqkcgnbcpb qo.cifegcqkc_Vbpc qokbppsqop_crbcnfyb
jfewb.ckqecgefopvfgsqo;cpqjbhq.xcnfpcgqv.cNbeuysjqy,cgnfgcEquppbfucrfp
fcwso.cqkcEf.spn nbytcXqucjfxchbcpuebcSc.qo’gc qogef.s gcnsj,cnfoacnsj!
Rbvv,crquv.cxqucvswbcgqc.qcgnbcpb qo.cpsaofguebcqkc‘_Spcrqjfocfcnujfo
hbsoa?_’cSkcxqucrquv.,cgfwbcgnbcAbejfocfo.cibopcfo.cifibe--fvvcgnqpb
febcieqys.b.,cfo.cgfwbcgnebbcequhvbp;ckqecfpcScnfybcnf.cpsdcequhvbpcso
f.yfo bcqocgnbcrnqvbcgnsoa,cgnebbcequhvbpc qjbcgqcxquckqecxquecpnfebt
Fo.crnbocxqucnfybcksospnb.cgnbcpsaofguebcgnbebcrsvvchbcfoqgnbecgnebb
equhvbpckqecxqutcFo.civbfpbc.qo’gcgnsowcScfjc.qsoacxqucfcpbeys b;clusgb
gnbc qogefex,cfpcpqqocfpcxquc fjbcso,cScpfrcnqrcxquc quv.cnbvicjb;cgq
hbasocrsgn,cScfjcrbfwcsocpibvvsoa,cfo.cpb qo.vx,cScfjcpqjbgsjbpcuggbevx
f.eskgcsocAbejfo,cpqcgnfgcScjfwbcsgcuicfpcScaqcfvqoackqecgnbcjqpgcifegt
Gnbcqovxc qjkqegcsp,cgnfgcsg’pchquo.cgqchbcfc nfoabckqecgnbchbggbet
Gnquancrnqc focgbvv,cjfxhbcsg’pcpqjbgsjbpckqecgnbcrqepbtcRsvvcxqucgfwb
sg?”

EfpwqvoswqycgqqwcgnbcAbejfocpnbbgpcsocpsvbo b,cgqqwcgnbcgnebbcequhvbp
fo.crsgnqugcfcrqe.crbogcqugtcEfzujsnsocafzb.cfkgbecnsjcsocfpgqospnjbogt
HugcrnbocEfpwqvoswqycrfpcsocgnbcobdgcpgebbg,cnbcgueob.chf w,cjquogb.cgnb
pgfsepcgqcEfzujsnso’pcfafsocfo.cvfxsoacqocgnbcgfhvbcgnbcAbejfocfegs vb
fo.cgnbcgnebbcequhvbp,crbogcqugcfafso,cpgsvvcrsgnqugcuggbesoacfcrqe.t

“Febcxqucefysoa,cqecrnfg?”cEfzujsnsocpnqugb.,cequpb.cgqckuexcfgcvfpgt
“Rnfgckfe bcspcgnsp?cXqu’vvc.esybcjbc efzxcgqqtttcrnfgc.s.cxquc qjbcgq
pbbcjbckqe,c.fjocxqu?”

“Sc.qo’gcrfogtttcgefopvfgsqo,”cjuggbeb.cEfpwqvoswqyckeqjcgnbcpgfsept

“Gnbocrnfgcgnbc.bysvc.qcxqucrfog?”cpnqugb.cEfzujsnsockeqjcfhqybt
Efpwqvoswqyc qogsoub.c.bp bo.soacgnbcpgfse fpbcsocpsvbo bt

“Nbx,cgnbeb!cRnbebcfebcxqucvsysoa?”

Oqcfoprbet

“Rbvv,c qokquo.cxqucgnbo!”

HugcEfpwqvoswqycrfpcfvebf.xcpgbiisoacsogqcgnbcpgebbgtcQocgnbcOswqvfbypwx
Hes.abcnbcrfpcequpb.cgqckuvvc qop squpobppcfafsochxcfocuoivbfpfog
so s.bogtcFc qf njfo,cfkgbecpnqugsoacfgcnsjcgrqcqecgnebbcgsjbp,cafybcnsj
fcysqvbogcvfpncqocgnbchf wcrsgncnspcrnsi,ckqecnfysoacfvjqpgckfvvbocuo.be
nspcnqepbp’cnqqkptcGnbcvfpncpqcsokuesfgb.cnsjcgnfgcnbc.fpnb.cfrfxcgqcgnb
efsvsoac(kqecpqjbcuowoqrocebfpqocnbcnf.chbbocrfvwsoacsocgnbcybexcjs..vb
qkcgnbches.abcsocgnbcgefkks )tcNbcfoaesvxc vbo nb.cfo.caequo.cnspcgbbgnt
Nbcnbfe.cvfuangbe,cqkc quepbt

“Pbeybpcnsjcesang!”

“Fcis wiq wbgcSc.febcpfxt”

“Iebgbo.soacgqchbc.euow,ckqecpueb,cfo.cabggsoacuo.becgnbcrnbbvpcqo
iueiqpb;cfo.cxqucnfybcgqcfoprbeckqecnsjt”

“Sg’pcfcebauvfecieqkbppsqo,cgnfg’pcrnfgcsgcspt”

Hugcrnsvbcnbcpgqq.cfgcgnbcefsvsoa,cpgsvvcvqqwsoacfoaexcfo.chbrsv.beb.
fkgbecgnbcebgebfgsoac feesfab,cfo.ceuhhsoacnspchf w,cnbcpu..bovxckbvg
pqjbqobcgneupgcjqobxcsogqcnspcnfo.tcNbcvqqwb.tcSgcrfpcfocbv.bevxcrqjfo
socfcwbe nsbkcfo.caqfgpwsocpnqbp,crsgncfcasev,cieqhfhvxcnbec.fuangbe,
rbfesoacfcnfg,cfo.c feexsoacfcaebbocifefpqvt

“Gfwbcsg,cjxcaqq.cjfo,csoc nespg’pcofjbt”

Nbcgqqwcsgcfo.cgnbxcifppb.cqotcSgcrfpcfcisb bcqkcgrbogxc qib wptcKeqj
nspc.ebppcfo.cfiibfefo bcgnbxcjsangcrbvvcnfybcgfwbocnsjckqecfchbaafe
fpwsoacfvjpcsocgnbcpgebbgp,cfo.cgnbcaskgcqkcgnbcgrbogxc qib wpcnb
.quhgvbppcqrb.cgqcgnbchvqr,crns ncjf.bcgnbjckbbvcpqeexckqecnsjt

Nbc vqpb.cnspcnfo.cqocgnbcgrbogxc qib wp,crfvwb.cqockqecgbocif bp,cfo.
gueob.ckf soacgnbcObyf,cvqqwsoacgqrfe.pcgnbcifvf btcGnbcpwxcrfpcrsgnqug
fc vqu.cfo.cgnbcrfgbecrfpcfvjqpgchesangchvub,crns ncspcpqcefebcsocgnb
ObyftcGnbc uiqvfcqkcgnbc fgnb.efv,crns ncspcpbbocfgcsgpchbpgckeqjcgnb
hes.abcfhqugcgrbogxcif bpckeqjcgnbc nfibv,cavsggbeb.csocgnbcpuovsang,
fo.csocgnbciuebcfsecbybexcqeofjbogcqocsgc quv.chbc vbfevxc.spgsoauspnb.t
Gnbcifsockeqjcgnbcvfpncrbogcqkk,cfo.cEfpwqvoswqyckqeaqgcfhqugcsg;cqob
uobfpxcfo.coqgclusgbc.bksosgbcs.bfcq  uisb.cnsjcoqrc qjivbgbvxtcNbcpgqq.
pgsvv,cfo.cafzb.cvqoacfo.csogbogvxcsogqcgnbc.spgfo b;cgnspcpiqgcrfp
bpib sfvvxckfjsvsfecgqcnsjtcRnbocnbcrfpcfggbo.soacgnbcuosybepsgx,cnbcnf.
nuo.eb.pcqkcgsjbp--abobefvvxcqocnspcrfxcnqjb--pgqq.cpgsvvcqocgnspcpiqg,
afzb.cfgcgnspcgeuvxcjfaosks bogcpib gf vbcfo.cfvjqpgcfvrfxpcjfeybvvb.cfg
fcyfaubcfo.cjxpgbesqupcbjqgsqocsgcequpb.csocnsjtcSgcvbkgcnsjcpgefoabvx
 qv.;cgnspcaqeabqupcis guebcrfpckqecnsjchvfowcfo.cvskbvbpptcNbcrqo.beb.
bybexcgsjbcfgcnspcpqjhebcfo.cbosajfgs csjiebppsqocfo.,cjspgeupgsoa
nsjpbvk,ciugcqkkckso.soacgnbcbdivfofgsqocqkcsgtcNbcysys.vxceb fvvb.
gnqpbcqv.c.quhgpcfo.cibeivbdsgsbp,cfo.csgcpbbjb.cgqcnsjcgnfgcsgcrfp
oqcjbebc nfo bcgnfgcnbceb fvvb.cgnbjcoqrtcSgcpgeu wcnsjcfpcpgefoabcfo.
aeqgbplub,cgnfgcnbcpnquv.cnfybcpgqiib.cfgcgnbcpfjbcpiqgcfpchbkqeb,
fpcgnquancnbcf gufvvxcsjfasob.cnbc quv.cgnsowcgnbcpfjbcgnquangp,chb
sogbebpgb.csocgnbcpfjbcgnbqesbpcfo.cis guebpcgnfgcnf.csogbebpgb.cnsjttt
pqcpnqegcfcgsjbcfaqtcNbckbvgcsgcfvjqpgcfjupsoa,cfo.cxbgcsgcreuoacnsp
nbfegtc.bbic.qro,cns..bockfecfrfxcqugcqkcpsangcfvvcgnfgcpbbjb.cgqcnsj
oqr--fvvcnspcqv.cifpg,cnspcqv.cgnquangp,cnspcqv.cieqhvbjpcfo.cgnbqesbp,
nspcqv.csjiebppsqopcfo.cgnfgcis guebcfo.cnsjpbvkcfo.cfvv,cfvvttttcNb
kbvgcfpcgnquancnbcrbebckvxsoacuirfe.p,cfo.cbybexgnsoacrbebcyfospnsoa
keqjcnspcpsangtcJfwsoacfocuo qop squpcjqybjbogcrsgncnspcnfo.,cnb
pu..bovxchb fjbcfrfebcqkcgnbcisb bcqkcjqobxcsocnspckspgtcNbcqibob.cnsp
nfo.,cpgfeb.cfgcgnbc qso,cfo.crsgncfcprbbicqkcnspcfejckvuoacsgcsogq
gnbcrfgbe;cgnbocnbcgueob.cfo.crbogcnqjbtcSgcpbbjb.cgqcnsj,cnbcnf.c ug
nsjpbvkcqkkckeqjcbybexqobcfo.ckeqjcbybexgnsoacfgcgnfgcjqjbogt

Bybosoacrfpc qjsoacqocrnbocnbcebf nb.cnqjb,cpqcgnfgcnbcjupgcnfybchbbo
rfvwsoacfhqugcpsdcnqueptcNqrcfo.crnbebcnbc fjbchf wcnbc.s.coqgcebjbjhbet
Uo.ebppsoa,cfo.clusybesoacvswbcfocqybe.esybocnqepb,cnbcvfxc.qrocqocgnb
pqkf,c.ebrcnspcaebfg qfgcqybecnsj,cfo.cfgcqo bcpfowcsogqcqhvsysqotttt

Sgcrfpc.upwcrnbocnbcrfpcrfwb.cuichxcfckbfekuvcp ebfjtcAqq.cAq.,crnfgcf
p ebfj!cPu ncuoofguefvcpquo.p,cpu ncnqrvsoa,crfsvsoa,caeso.soa,cgbfep,
hvqrpcfo.c uepbpcnbcnf.cobybecnbfe.t

Nbc quv.cobybecnfybcsjfasob.cpu ncheugfvsgx,cpu nckebozxtcSocgbeeqecnb
pfgcuicsochb.,cfvjqpgcprqqosoacrsgncfaqoxtcHugcgnbcksangsoa,crfsvsoa
fo.c uepsoacaebrcvqu.becfo.cvqu.betcFo.cgnbocgqcnspcsogbopbcfjfzbjbog
nbc fuangcgnbcyqs bcqkcnspcvfo.vf.xtcPnbcrfpcnqrvsoa,cpnesbwsoacfo.
rfsvsoa,cefis.vx,cnueesb.vx,cso qnbebogvx,cpqcgnfgcnbc quv.coqgcjfwb
qugcrnfgcpnbcrfpcgfvwsoacfhqug;cpnbcrfpchbpbb nsoa,coqc.quhg,coqgcgqchb
hbfgbo,ckqecpnbcrfpchbsoacjbe svbppvxchbfgbocqocgnbcpgfseptcGnbcyqs bcqk
nbecfppfsvfogcrfpcpqcnqeeshvbckeqjcpisgbcfo.cefabcgnfgcsgcrfpcfvjqpg
fc eqfw;chugcnb,cgqq,crfpcpfxsoacpqjbgnsoa,cfo.cmupgcfpclus wvx
fo.cso.spgso gvx,cnueexsoacfo.cpivuggbesoatcFvvcfgcqo bcEfpwqvoswqy
gebjhvb.;cnbceb qaospb.cgnbcyqs b--sgcrfpcgnbcyqs bcqkcSvxfcIbgeqysg nt
SvxfcIbgeqysg ncnbebcfo.chbfgsoacgnbcvfo.vf.x!cNbcspcws wsoacnbe,
hfoasoacnbecnbf.cfafsopgcgnbcpgbip--gnfg’pc vbfe,cgnfgc fochbcgqv.
keqjcgnbcpquo.p,ckeqjcgnbc esbpcfo.cgnbcgnu.ptcNqrcspcsg,cspcgnbcrqev.
gqipx-gueyx?cNbc quv.cnbfecibqivbceuoosoacsoc eqr.pckeqjcfvvcgnbcpgqebxp
fo.cfvvcgnbcpgfse fpbp;cnbcnbfe.cyqs bp,cbd vfjfgsqop,cwoq wsoa,c.qqep
hfoasoatc“Hugcrnx,crnx,cfo.cnqrc quv.csgchb?”cnbcebibfgb.,cgnsowsoa
pbesqupvxcgnfgcnbcnf.caqobcjf.tcHugcoq,cnbcnbfe.cgqqc.spgso gvx!cFo.
gnbxcrquv.c qjbcgqcnsjcgnbocobdg,c“kqecoqc.quhgtttcsg’pcfvvcfhqug
gnfgtttcfhqugcxbpgbe.fxttttcAqq.cAq.!”cNbcrquv.cnfybckfpgbob.cnspc.qqe
rsgncgnbcvfg n,chugcnbc quv.coqgcvskgcnspcnfo.tttchbps.bp,csgcrquv.
hbcupbvbpptcGbeeqecaesiib.cnspcnbfegcvswbcs b,cgqegueb.cnsjcfo.coujhb.
nsjttttcHugcfgcvfpgcfvvcgnspcuieqfe,cfkgbec qogsousoacfhqugcgbocjsougbp,
hbafocaef.ufvvxcgqcpuhps.btcGnbcvfo.vf.xcrfpcjqfosoacfo.caeqfosoa;cSvxf
Ibgeqysg ncrfpcpgsvvcuggbesoacgnebfgpcfo.c uepbpttttcHugcfgcvfpgcnb,
gqq,cpbbjb.cgqchbcpsvbog,cfo.coqrcnbc quv.coqgchbcnbfe.tc“ focnbcnfyb
aqobcfrfx?cAqq.cVqe.!”cXbp,cfo.coqrcgnbcvfo.vf.xcspcaqsoacgqq,cpgsvv
rbbisoacfo.cjqfosoatttcfo.cgnbocnbec.qqecpvfjjb.ttttcOqrcgnbc eqr.crfp
aqsoackeqjcgnbcpgfsepcgqcgnbseceqqjp,cbd vfsjsoa,c.spiugsoa,c fvvsoa
gqcqobcfoqgnbe,cefspsoacgnbsecyqs bpcgqcfcpnqug,c.eqiisoacgnbjcgqcf
rnspibetcGnbebcjupgcnfybchbbocoujhbepcqkcgnbj--fvjqpgcfvvcgnbcsojfgbp
qkcgnbchvq wtc“Hug,caqq.cAq.,cnqrc quv.csgchb!cFo.crnx,crnxcnf.cnbc qjb
nbeb!”

Efpwqvoswqycpfowcrqeocqugcqocgnbcpqkf,chugc quv.coqgc vqpbcnspcbxbptcNb
vfxckqecnfvkcfocnquecsocpu ncfoauspn,cpu ncfocsogqvbefhvbcpbopfgsqocqk
soksosgbcgbeeqecfpcnbcnf.cobybecbdibesbo b.chbkqebtcPu..bovxcfchesang
vsangckvfpnb.csogqcnspceqqjtcOfpgfpxfc fjbcsocrsgncfc fo.vbcfo.cfcivfgb
qkcpquitcVqqwsoacfgcnsjc febkuvvxcfo.cfp begfsosoacgnfgcnbcrfpcoqg
fpvbbi,cpnbcpbgcgnbc fo.vbcqocgnbcgfhvbcfo.chbafocgqcvfxcqugcrnfgcpnb
nf.chequang--hebf.,cpfvg,cfcivfgb,cfcpiqqot

“Xqu’ybcbfgbocoqgnsoacpso bcxbpgbe.fx,cScrfeefogtcXqu’ybchbbocgeu.asoa
fhqugcfvvc.fx,cfo.cxqu’ebcpnfwsoacrsgnckbybet”

“Ofpgfpxftttcrnfgcrbebcgnbxchbfgsoacgnbcvfo.vf.xckqe?”

Pnbcvqqwb.csogbogvxcfgcnsjt

“Rnqchbfgcgnbcvfo.vf.x?”

“Mupgcoqrtttcnfvkcfocnquecfaq,cSvxfcIbgeqysg n,cgnbcfppspgfog
puibesogbo.bog,cqocgnbcpgfsepttttcRnxcrfpcnbcsvv-gebfgsoacnbecvswbcgnfg,
fo.tttcrnxcrfpcnbcnbeb?”

Ofpgfpxfcp eugsospb.cnsj,cpsvbogcfo.ckeqrosoa,cfo.cnbecp eugsoxcvfpgb.cf
vqoacgsjbtcNbckbvgcuobfpx,cbybockesangbob.cfgcnbecpbfe nsoacbxbpt

“Ofpgfpxf,crnxc.qo’gcxqucpibfw?”cnbcpfs.cgsjs.vxcfgcvfpgcsocfcrbfw
yqs bt

“Sg’pcgnbchvqq.,”cpnbcfoprbeb.cfgcvfpgcpqkgvx,cfpcgnquancpibfwsoacgq
nbepbvkt

“Hvqq.?cRnfgchvqq.?”cnbcjuggbeb.,caeqrsoacrnsgbcfo.cgueosoacgqrfe.pcgnb
rfvvt

Ofpgfpxfcpgsvvcvqqwb.cfgcnsjcrsgnqugcpibfwsoat

“Oqhq.xcnfpchbbochbfgsoacgnbcvfo.vf.x,”cpnbc.b vfeb.cfgcvfpgcsocfcksej,
ebpqvugbcyqs bt

Nbcafzb.cfgcnbe,cnfe.vxcfhvbcgqchebfgnbt

“Scnbfe.csgcjxpbvkttttcScrfpcoqgcfpvbbitttcScrfpcpsggsoacui,”cnb
pfs.cpgsvvcjqebcgsjs.vxtc“Scvspgbob.cfcvqoacrnsvbtcGnbcfppspgfog
puibesogbo.bogc fjbttttcBybexqobcefocqugcqocgqcgnbcpgfsepckeqjcfvvcgnb
kvfgpt”

“OqcqobcnfpchbbocnbebtcGnfg’pcgnbchvqq.c exsoacsocxquecbfeptcRnbo
gnbeb’pcoqcqugvbgckqecsgcfo.csgcabgpc vqggb.,cxquchbasockfo xsoa
gnsoapttttcRsvvcxqucbfgcpqjbgnsoa?”

Nbcjf.bcoqcfoprbetcOfpgfpxfcpgsvvcpgqq.cqybecnsj,crfg nsoacnsjt

“Asybcjbcpqjbgnsoacgqc.esowtttcOfpgfpxft”

Pnbcrbogc.qropgfsepcfo.cebgueob.crsgncfcrnsgbcbfegnborfebcmuacqkcrfgbet
Nbcebjbjhbeb.cqovxcprfvvqrsoacqobcpsicqkcgnbc qv.crfgbecfo.cpisvvsoa
pqjbcqocnspcob wtcGnbockqvvqrb.ckqeabgkuvobppt



 NFIGBEcSSS

Nbcrfpcoqgc qjivbgbvxcuo qop squp,cnqrbybe,cfvvcgnbcgsjbcnbcrfpcsvv;cnb
rfpcsocfckbybespncpgfgb,cpqjbgsjbpc.bvsesqup,cpqjbgsjbpcnfvkc qop squpt
Nbcebjbjhbeb.cfcaebfgc.bfvcfkgberfe.ptcPqjbgsjbpcsgcpbbjb.cfpcgnquan
gnbebcrbebcfcoujhbecqkcibqivbcequo.cnsj;cgnbxcrfogb.cgqcgfwbcnsjcfrfx
pqjbrnbeb,cgnbebcrfpcfcaebfgc.bfvcqkcplufhhvsoacfo.c.sp uppsoacfhqug
nsjtcGnbocnbcrquv.chbcfvqobcsocgnbceqqj;cgnbxcnf.cfvvcaqobcfrfxcfkefs.
qkcnsj,cfo.cqovxcoqrcfo.cgnbocqibob.cgnbc.qqecfc ef wcgqcvqqwcfgcnsj;
gnbxcgnebfgbob.cnsj,civqggb.cpqjbgnsoacgqabgnbe,cvfuanb.,cfo.cjq wb.
fgcnsjtcNbcebjbjhbeb.cOfpgfpxfcqkgbocfgcnspchb.ps.b;cnbc.spgsoauspnb.
foqgnbecibepqo,cgqq,crnqjcnbcpbbjb.cgqcwoqrcybexcrbvv,cgnquancnbc quv.
oqgcebjbjhbecrnqcnbcrfp,cfo.cgnspckebggb.cnsj,cbybocjf.bcnsjc ext
Pqjbgsjbpcnbckfo sb.cnbcnf.chbbocvxsoacgnbebcfcjqogn;cfgcqgnbecgsjbp
sgcfvvcpbbjb.cifegcqkcgnbcpfjbc.fxtcHugcqkc_gnfg_--qkc_gnfg_cnbcnf.
oqceb qvvb gsqo,cfo.cxbgcbybexcjsougbcnbckbvgcgnfgcnbcnf.ckqeaqggbo
pqjbgnsoacnbcquangcgqcebjbjhbetcNbcrqeesb.cfo.cgqejbogb.cnsjpbvkcgexsoa
gqcebjbjhbe,cjqfob.,ckvbrcsogqcfcefab,cqecpfowcsogqcfrkuv,csogqvbefhvb
gbeeqetcGnbocnbcpgeuaavb.cgqcabgcui,crquv.cnfybceuocfrfx,chugcpqjbqob
fvrfxpciebybogb.cnsjchxckqe b,cfo.cnbcpfowchf wcsogqcsjiqgbo bcfo.
kqeabgkuvobpptcFgcvfpgcnbcebgueob.cgqc qjivbgbc qop squpobppt

Sgcnfiibob.cfgcgbocq’ vq wcsocgnbcjqeosoatcQocksobc.fxpcgnbcpuocpnqob
sogqcgnbceqqjcfgcgnfgcnque,cgneqrsoacfcpgebfwcqkcvsangcqocgnbcesang
rfvvcfo.cgnbc qeobecobfecgnbc.qqetcOfpgfpxfcrfpcpgfo.soachbps.bcnsj
rsgncfoqgnbecibepqo,cfc qjivbgbcpgefoabe,crnqcrfpcvqqwsoacfgcnsj
ybexcsoluspsgsybvxtcNbcrfpcfcxquoacjfocrsgncfchbfe.,crbfesoacfckuvv,
pnqeg-rfspgb.c qfg,cfo.cvqqwb.cvswbcfcjbppboabetcGnbcvfo.vf.xcrfp
ibbisoacsocfgcgnbcnfvk-qibob.c.qqetcEfpwqvoswqycpfgcuit

“Rnqcspcgnsp,cOfpgfpxf?”cnbcfpwb.,ciqsogsoacgqcgnbcxquoacjfot

“Scpfx,cnb’pcnsjpbvkcfafso!”cpnbcpfs.t

“Nbcspcnsjpbvk,”cb nqb.cgnbcjfot

 qo vu.soacgnfgcnbcnf.cebgueob.cgqcnspcpbopbp,cgnbcvfo.vf.xc vqpb.cgnb
.qqecfo.c.spfiibfeb.tcPnbcrfpcfvrfxpcpnxcfo.c.ebf.b.c qoybepfgsqopcqe
.sp uppsqoptcPnbcrfpcfcrqjfocqkckqegx,coqgcfgcfvvchf.-vqqwsoa,ckfg
fo.chudqj,crsgnchvf wcbxbpcfo.cbxbheqrp,caqq.-ofgueb.ckeqjckfgobppcfo.
vfzsobpp,cfo.cfhpue.vxchfpnkuvt

“Rnqtttcfebcxqu?”cnbcrbogcqo,cf..ebppsoacgnbcjfotcHugcfgcgnfgcjqjbog
gnbc.qqecrfpckvuoacqibo,cfo.,cpgqqisoacfcvsggvb,cfpcnbcrfpcpqcgfvv,
Efzujsnsoc fjbcsot

“Rnfgcfc fhsocsgcsp!”cnbc esb.tc“Scfjcfvrfxpcwoq wsoacjxcnbf.tcXquc fvv
gnspcfcvq.asoa!cPqcxqucfebc qop squp,cheqgnbe?cS’ybcmupgcnbfe.cgnbcobrp
keqjcIfpnbowft”

“Nbcnfpcmupgc qjbcgq,”cpfs.cOfpgfpxft

“Mupgc qjbcgq,”cb nqb.cgnbcjfocfafso,crsgncfcpjsvbt

“Fo.crnqcfebcxqu?”cEfzujsnsocfpwb.,cpu..bovxcf..ebppsoacnsjtc“Jxcofjbcsp
Yefzujsnso,cfgcxquecpbeys b;coqgcEfzujsnso,cfpcScfjcfvrfxpc fvvb.,chug
Yefzujsnso,cfcpgu.bogcfo.cabogvbjfo;cfo.cnbcspcjxckesbo.tcFo.crnqcfeb
xqu?”

“Scfjcgnbcjbppboabeckeqjcquecqkks b,ckeqjcgnbcjbe nfogcPnbvqifby,cfo.
S’ybc qjbcqochupsobppt”

“Ivbfpbcpsgc.qrot”cEfzujsnsocpbfgb.cnsjpbvkcqocgnbcqgnbecps.bcqkcgnb
gfhvbtc“Sg’pcfcaqq.cgnsoacxqu’ybc qjbcgq,cheqgnbe,”cnbcrbogcqocgq
Efpwqvoswqytc“Kqecgnbcvfpgckquec.fxpcxqucnfybcp fe bvxcbfgbocqec.euow
foxgnsoatcRbcnf.cgqcasybcxqucgbfcsocpiqqokuvptcSchequangcZqppsjqycgqcpbb
xqucgrs btcXqucebjbjhbecZqppsjqy?cNbcbdfjsob.cxquc febkuvvxcfo.cpfs.cfg
qo bcsgcrfpcoqgnsoacpbesqup--pqjbgnsoacpbbjb.cgqcnfybcaqobcgqcxquecnbf.t
Pqjbcobeyqupcoqopbopb,cgnbcebpuvgcqkchf.ckbb.soa,cnbcpfxpcxqucnfybcoqg
nf.cboquanchbbecfo.cef.spn,chugcsg’pcoqgnsoacju n,csgcrsvvcifppcfo.cxqu
rsvvchbcfvvcesangtcZqppsjqycspcfcksepg-efgbckbvvqr!cNbcspcjfwsoaclusgbcf
ofjbtc qjb,cScrqo’gcwbbicxqu,”cnbcpfs.,cf..ebppsoacgnbcjfocfafsotc“Rsvv
xqucbdivfsocrnfgcxqucrfog?cXqucjupgcwoqr,cEq.xf,cgnspcspcgnbcpb qo.cgsjb
gnbxcnfybcpbogckeqjcgnbcqkks b;chugcsgcrfpcfoqgnbecjfocvfpgcgsjb,cfo.cS
gfvwb.cgqcnsjtcRnqcrfpcsgc fjbchbkqeb?”

“Gnfgcrfpcgnbc.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fx,cScyboguebcgqcpfx,cskcxqucivbfpb,
psetcGnfgcrfpcFvbdbxcPbjxqoqysg n;cnbcspcsocquecqkks b,cgqqt”

“Nbcrfpcjqebcsogbvvsabogcgnfocxqu,c.qo’gcxqucgnsowcpq?”

“Xbp,cso.bb.,cpse,cnbcspcqkcjqebcrbsangcgnfocScfjt”

“Lusgbcpq;caqcqot”

“Fgcxquecjfjjf’pceblubpg,cgnequancFkfofpxcSyfoqysg ncYfneupnso,cqkcrnqj
Sciebpujbcxqucnfybcnbfe.cjqebcgnfocqo b,cfcebjsggfo bcspcpbogcgqcxqu
keqjcquecqkks b,”cgnbcjfochbafo,cf..ebppsoacEfpwqvoswqytc“Skcxqucfebcso
focsogbvvsashvbc qo.sgsqo,cS’ybcgnsegx-ksybcequhvbpcgqcebjsgcgqcxqu,cfp
PbjxqocPbjxqoqysg ncnfpceb bsyb.ckeqjcFkfofpxcSyfoqysg ncfgcxquecjfjjf’p
eblubpgcsopgeu gsqopcgqcgnfgcbkkb g,cfpcqociebysqupcq  fpsqoptc.qcxqu
woqrcnsj,cpse?”

“Xbp,cScebjbjhbetttcYfneupnso,”cEfpwqvoswqycpfs.c.ebfjsvxt

“Xqucnbfe,cnbcwoqrpcYfneupnso,”c esb.cEfzujsnsotc“Nbcspcsoc‘fo
sogbvvsashvbc qo.sgsqo’!cFo.cScpbbcxqucfebcfocsogbvvsabogcjfocgqqtcRbvv,
sg’pcfvrfxpcivbfpfogcgqcnbfecrqe.pcqkcrsp.qjt”

“Gnfg’pcgnbcabogvbjfo,cYfneupnso,cFkfofpxcSyfoqysg ntcFo.cfgcgnbceblubpg
qkcxquecjfjjf,crnqcnfpcpbogcxqucfcebjsggfo bcqo bchbkqebcsocgnb
pfjbcjfoobecgnequancnsj,cnbc.s.coqgcebkupbcgnspcgsjbcfvpq,cfo.cpbog
sopgeu gsqopcgqcPbjxqocPbjxqoqysg ncpqjbc.fxpcpso bcgqcnfo.cxqu
gnsegx-ksybcequhvbpcsocgnbcnqibcqkchbggbecgqc qjbt”

“Gnfgc‘nqisoackqechbggbecgqc qjb’cspcgnbchbpgcgnsoacxqu’ybcpfs.,cgnquan
‘xquecjfjjf’cspcoqgchf.cbsgnbetc qjbcgnbo,crnfgc.qcxqucpfx?cSpcnbckuvvx
 qop squp,cbn?”

“Gnfg’pcfvvcesangtcSkcqovxcnbc focpsaocgnspcvsggvbcifibet”

“Nbc focp efrvcnspcofjbtcNfybcxqucaqgcgnbchqqw?”

“Xbp,cnbeb’pcgnbchqqwt”

“AsybcsgcgqcjbtcNbeb,cEq.xf,cpsgcuitcS’vvcnqv.cxqutcGfwbcgnbcibocfo.
p eshhvbc‘Efpwqvoswqy’ckqecnsjtcKqecmupgcoqr,cheqgnbe,cjqobxcspcprbbgbe
gqcupcgnfocgebf vbt”

“Sc.qo’gcrfogcsg,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,ciupnsoacfrfxcgnbcibot

“Oqgcrfogcsg?”

“Scrqo’gcpsaocsgt”

“Nqrcgnbc.bysvc focxquc.qcrsgnqugcpsaosoacsg?”

“Sc.qo’gcrfogtttcgnbcjqobxt”

“.qo’gcrfogcgnbcjqobx!c qjb,cheqgnbe,cgnfg’pcoqopbopb,cSchbfecrsgobppt
.qo’gcgequhvb,civbfpb,csg’pcqovxcgnfgcnbcspcqocnspcgefybvpcfafsotcHug
gnfg’pciebggxc qjjqocrsgncnsjcfgcfvvcgsjbpcgnquanttttcXqucfebcfcjfocqk
mu.ajbogcfo.crbcrsvvcgfwbcnsjcsocnfo.,cgnfgcsp,cjqebcpsjivx,cgfwbcnsp
nfo.cfo.cnbcrsvvcpsaocsgtcNbebt”

“HugcSc foc qjbcfoqgnbecgsjbt”

“Oq,coqtcRnxcpnquv.crbcgequhvbcxqu?cXqucfebcfcjfocqkcmu.ajbogttttcOqr,
Eq.xf,c.qo’gcwbbicxquecyspsgqe,cxqucpbbcnbcspcrfsgsoa,”cfo.cnbcjf.b
ebf.xcgqcnqv.cEfpwqvoswqy’pcnfo.csocbfeobpgt

“Pgqi,cS’vvc.qcsgcfvqob,”cpfs.cgnbcvfggbe,cgfwsoacgnbcibocfo.cpsaosoa
nspcofjbt

Gnbcjbppboabecgqqwcqugcgnbcjqobxcfo.crbogcfrfxt

“Hefyq!cFo.coqr,cheqgnbe,cfebcxqucnuoaex?”

“Xbp,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“Spcgnbebcfoxcpqui?”

“Pqjbcqkcxbpgbe.fx’p,”cfoprbeb.cOfpgfpxf,crnqcrfpcpgsvvcpgfo.soacgnbebt

“Rsgnciqgfgqbpcfo.ces bcsocsg?”

“Xbpt”

“ScwoqrcsgchxcnbfegtcHesoacpquicfo.casybcupcpqjbcgbft”

“Ybexcrbvvt”

Efpwqvoswqycvqqwb.cfgcfvvcgnspcrsgncieqkquo.cfpgqospnjbogcfo.cfc.uvv,
uoebfpqosoacgbeeqetcNbcjf.bcuicnspcjso.cgqcwbbiclusbgcfo.cpbbcrnfg
rquv.cnfiibotc“SchbvsbybcScfjcoqgcrfo.besoatcSchbvsbybcsg’pcebfvsgx,”cnb
gnquangt

Socfc quivbcqkcjsougbpcOfpgfpxfcebgueob.crsgncgnbcpqui,cfo.cfooquo b.
gnfgcgnbcgbfcrquv.chbcebf.xc.seb gvxtcRsgncgnbcpquicpnbchequangcgrq
piqqop,cgrqcivfgbp,cpfvg,cibiibe,cjupgfe.ckqecgnbchbbk,cfo.cpqcqotcGnb
gfhvbcrfpcpbgcfpcsgcnf.coqgchbbockqecfcvqoacgsjbtcGnbc vqgncrfpc vbfot

“Sgcrquv.coqgchbcfjspp,cOfpgfpxf,cskcIefpwqyxfcIfyvqyofcrbebcgqcpbo.cup
uicfc quivbcqkchqggvbpcqkchbbetcRbc quv.cbjigxcgnbjt”

“Rbvv,cxqucfebcfc qqvcnfo.,”cjuggbeb.cOfpgfpxf,cfo.cpnbc.bifegb.cgq
 feexcqugcnspcqe.bept

Efpwqvoswqycpgsvvcafzb.crsv.vxcrsgncpgefsob.cfggbogsqotcJbfornsvb
Efzujsnsocpfgc.qrocqocgnbcpqkfchbps.bcnsj,cfpc vujpsvxcfpcfchbfeciugcnsp
vbkgcfejcequo.cEfpwqvoswqy’pcnbf.,cfvgnquancnbcrfpcfhvbcgqcpsgcui,cfo.
rsgncnspcesangcnfo.cafybcnsjcfcpiqqokuvcqkcpqui,chvqrsoacqocsgcgnfg
sgcjsangcoqgchueocnsjtcHugcgnbcpquicrfpcqovxcmupgcrfejtcEfpwqvoswqy
prfvvqrb.cqobcpiqqokuvcaebb.svx,cgnbocfcpb qo.,cgnbocfcgnse.tcHugcfkgbe
asysoacnsjcfckbrcjqebcpiqqokuvpcqkcpqui,cEfzujsnsocpu..bovxcpgqiib.,cfo.
pfs.cgnfgcnbcjupgcfpwcZqppsjqycrnbgnbecnbcquangcgqcnfybcjqebt

Ofpgfpxfc fjbcsocrsgncgrqchqggvbpcqkchbbet

“Fo.crsvvcxqucnfybcgbf?”

“Xbpt”

“ ugcfvqoa,cOfpgfpxf,cfo.chesoacpqjbcgbf,ckqecgbfcrbcjfxcyboguebcqo
rsgnqugcgnbckf uvgxtcHugcnbebcspcgnbchbbe!”cNbcjqyb.chf wcgqcnspc nfse,
iuvvb.cgnbcpquicfo.cjbfgcsockeqogcqkcnsj,cfo.chbafocbfgsoacfpcgnquancnb
nf.coqgcgqu nb.ckqq.ckqecgnebbc.fxpt

“Scjupgcgbvvcxqu,cEq.xf,cSc.sobcvswbcgnspcnbebcbybexc.fxcoqr,”cnb
jujhvb.crsgncnspcjqugnckuvvcqkchbbk,c“fo.csg’pcfvvcIfpnbowf,cxquec.bfe
vsggvbcvfo.vf.x,crnqcpbbpcgqcgnfg;cpnbcvqybpcgqc.qcfoxgnsoackqecjbtcS
.qo’gcfpwckqecsg,chug,cqkc quepb,cSc.qo’gcqhmb gtcFo.cnbeb’pcOfpgfpxf
rsgncgnbcgbftcPnbcspcfclus wcasevtcOfpgfpxf,cjxc.bfe,crqo’gcxqucnfyb
pqjbchbbe?”

“Abgcfvqoacrsgncxquecoqopbopb!”

“Fc uicqkcgbf,cgnbo?”

“Fc uicqkcgbf,cjfxhbt”

“IquecsgcqugtcPgfx,cS’vvciquecsgcqugcjxpbvktcPsgc.qrot”

Nbciqueb.cqugcgrqc uip,cvbkgcnspc.soobe,cfo.cpfgcqocgnbcpqkfcfafsotcFp
hbkqeb,cnbciugcnspcvbkgcfejcequo.cgnbcps wcjfo’pcnbf.,cefspb.cnsjcui
fo.cafybcnsjcgbfcsocpiqqokuvp,cfafsochvqrsoacbf ncpiqqokuvcpgbf.svxcfo.
bfeobpgvx,cfpcgnquancgnspcieq bppcrfpcgnbcieso sifvcfo.cjqpgcbkkb gsyb
jbfopcgqrfe.pcnspckesbo.’pceb qybextcEfpwqvoswqycpfs.coqgnsoacfo.cjf.b
oqcebpspgfo b,cgnquancnbckbvgclusgbcpgeqoacboquancgqcpsgcuicqocgnbcpqkf
rsgnqugcpuiiqegcfo.c quv.coqgcjbebvxcnfybcnbv.cfc uicqecfcpiqqo,chug
bybocibenfipc quv.cnfybcrfvwb.cfhqugtcHugckeqjcpqjbclubbe,cfvjqpg
fosjfv,c uoosoacnbc qo bsyb.cgnbcs.bfcqkcns.soacnspcpgeboagncfo.cvxsoa
vqrckqecfcgsjb,ciebgbo.soacskcob bppfexcoqgcgqchbcxbgcsockuvvciqppbppsqo
qkcnspckf uvgsbp,cfo.cjbfornsvbcvspgbosoacgqckso.cqugcrnfgcrfpcaqsoacqot
Xbgcnbc quv.coqgcqybe qjbcnspcpbopbcqkcebiuaofo btcFkgbecpsiisoacfc.qzbo
piqqokuvpcqkcgbf,cnbcpu..bovxcebvbfpb.cnspcnbf.,ciupnb.cgnbcpiqqocfrfx
 fies squpvx,cfo.cpfowchf wcqocgnbcisvvqrtcGnbebcrbebcf gufvvxcebfv
isvvqrpcuo.becnspcnbf.coqr,c.qrocisvvqrpcsoc vbfoc fpbp,cnbcqhpbeyb.
gnfg,cgqq,cfo.cgqqwcoqgbcqkcsgt

“Ifpnbowfcjupgcasybcupcpqjbcefpihbeexcmfjcgq-.fxcgqcjfwbcnsjcpqjb
efpihbeexcgbf,”cpfs.cEfzujsnso,caqsoachf wcgqcnspc nfsecfo.cfggf wsoa
nspcpquicfo.chbbecfafsot

“Fo.crnbebcspcpnbcgqcabgcefpihbeesbpckqecxqu?”cfpwb.cOfpgfpxf,chfvfo soa
fcpfu becqocnbecksybcqugpiebf.cksoabepcfo.cpsiisoacgbfcgnequancfcvujicqk
puafet

“Pnb’vvcabgcsgcfgcgnbcpnqi,cjxc.bfetcXqucpbb,cEq.xf,cfvvcpqegpcqkcgnsoap
nfybchbbocnfiibosoacrnsvbcxqucnfybchbbocvfs.cuitcRnbocxquc.b fjib.cso
gnfgcefp fvvxcrfxcrsgnqugcvbfysoacxquecf..ebpp,cSckbvgcpqcfoaexcgnfgcS
ebpqvyb.cgqckso.cxqucqugcfo.ciuospncxqutcScpbgcgqcrqewcgnfgcybexc.fxt
NqrcScefocfhqugcjfwsoacsolusesbpckqecxqu!cGnspcvq.asoacqkcxquepcScnf.
kqeaqggbo,cgnquancScobybecebjbjhbeb.csg,cso.bb.,chb fupbcSc.s.coqgcwoqr
sg;cfo.cfpckqecxquecqv.cvq.asoap,cSc quv.cqovxcebjbjhbecsgcrfpcfgcgnb
Ksybc qeobep,cNfevfjqy’pcnqupbtcScwbigcgexsoacgqckso.cgnfgcNfevfjqy’p
nqupb,cfo.cfkgberfe.pcsgcgueob.cqugcgnfgcsgcrfpcoqgcNfevfjqy’p,chug
Hu n’ptcNqrcqobcju..vbpcuicpquo.cpqjbgsjbp!cPqcScvqpgcjxcgbjibe,cfo.cS
rbogcqocgnbc nfo bcgqcgnbcf..ebppchuebfucobdgc.fx,cfo.cqovxckfo x,cso
grqcjsougbpcgnbxcvqqwb.cxqucui!cXquecofjbcspc.qrocgnbebt”

“Jxcofjb!”

“Scpnquv.cgnsowcpq;cfo.cxbgcfcAbobefvcWqhbvbycgnbxc quv.coqgckso.crnsvb
ScrfpcgnbebtcRbvv,csg’pcfcvqoacpgqextcHugcfpcpqqocfpcSc.s.cvfo.cqocgnsp
ivf b,cScpqqocaqgcgqcwoqrcfvvcxquecfkkfsep--fvv,cfvv,cheqgnbe,cScwoqr
bybexgnsoa;cOfpgfpxfcnbebcrsvvcgbvvcxqutcScjf.bcgnbcf lufsogfo bcqk
Oswq.sjcKqjsg ncfo.cSvxfcIbgeqysg n,cfo.cgnbcnqupb-iqegbecfo.cJet
Zfjbgqy,cFvbdfo.ecAesaqesbysg n,cgnbcnbf.c vbewcsocgnbciqvs bcqkks b,
fo.,cvfpg,chugcoqgcvbfpg,cqkcIfpnbowf;cOfpgfpxfcnbebcwoqrptttt”

“Nb’pcaqgcequo.cnbe,”cOfpgfpxfcjuejueb.,cpjsvsoacpvxvxt

“Rnxc.qo’gcxquciugcgnbcpuafecsocxquecgbf,cOfpgfpxfcOswskqeqyof?”

“Xqucfebcfcqob!”cOfpgfpxfc esb.cpu..bovx,caqsoacqkkcsogqcfcasaavbtc“Scfj
oqgcOswskqeqyof,chugcIbgeqyof,”cpnbcf..b.cpu..bovx,ceb qybesoackeqjcnbe
jsegnt

“S’vvcjfwbcfcoqgbcqkcsgtcRbvv,cheqgnbe,cgqcjfwbcfcvqoacpgqexcpnqeg,
Scrfpcaqsoacsockqecfcebauvfecbdivqpsqocnbebcgqcuieqqgcfvvcjfvsaofog
sokvubo bpcsocgnbcvq fvsgx,chugcIfpnbowfcrqocgnbc.fxtcScnf.coqg
bdib gb.,cheqgnbe,cgqckso.cnbecpqtttciebiqppbppsoatcBn,crnfgc.qcxqu
gnsow?”

Efpwqvoswqyc.s.coqgcpibfw,chugcnbcpgsvvcwbigcnspcbxbpcksdb.cuiqocnsj,
kuvvcqkcfvfejt

“Fo.cfvvcgnfgc quv.chbcrspnb.,cso.bb.,csocbybexcebpib g,”cEfzujsnsocrbog
qo,coqgcfgcfvvcbjhfeefppb.chxcnspcpsvbo bt

“Fn,cgnbcpvxc.qa!”cOfpgfpxfcpnesbwb.cfafsotcGnspc qoybepfgsqocfkkqe.b.
nbecuopibfwfhvbc.bvsangt

“Sg’pcfcisgx,cheqgnbe,cgnfgcxquc.s.coqgcpbgcgqcrqewcsocgnbcesangcrfx
fgcksepgtcXqucquangcgqcnfybcfiieqf nb.cnbec.skkbebogvxtcPnbcsp,cpq
gqcpibfw,cfcjqpgcuof  quogfhvbc nfef gbetcHugcrbcrsvvcgfvwcfhqugcnbe
 nfef gbecvfgbettttcNqrc quv.cxqucvbgcgnsoapc qjbcgqcpu ncfcifppcgnfg
pnbcafybcuicpbo.soacxqucxquec.soobe?cFo.cgnfgcScQcU?cXqucjupgcnfybchbbo
jf.cgqcpsaocfocScQcUtcFo.cgnfgcieqjspbcqkcjfeesfabcrnbocnbec.fuangbe,
OfgfvxfcXbaqeqyof,crfpcfvsyb?tttcScwoqrcfvvcfhqugcsg!cHugcScpbbcgnfg’p
fc.bvs fgbcjfggbecfo.cScfjcfocfpp;ckqeasybcjbtcHug,cgfvwsoacqk
kqqvspnobpp,c.qcxqucwoqrcIefpwqyxfcIfyvqyofcspcoqgcobfevxcpqckqqvspncfp
xqucrquv.cgnsowcfgcksepgcpsang?”

“Oq,”cjujhvb.cEfpwqvoswqy,cvqqwsoacfrfx,chugckbbvsoacgnfgcsgcrfpchbggbe
gqcwbbicuicgnbc qoybepfgsqot

“Pnbcspo’g,cspcpnb?”c esb.cEfzujsnso,c.bvsangb.cgqcabgcfocfoprbecqug
qkcnsjtc“Hugcpnbcspcoqgcybexc vbybecbsgnbe,cbn?cPnbcspcbppbogsfvvx,
bppbogsfvvxcfocuof  quogfhvbc nfef gbe!cScfjcpqjbgsjbpclusgbcfgcfcvqpp,
ScfppuebcxquttttcPnbcjupgchbckqegx;cpnbcpfxpcpnbcspcgnsegx-psd,cfo.
qkc quepbcpnbcnfpcbybexcesangcgqcpfxcpqtcHugcScprbfecScmu.abcnbe
sogbvvb gufvvx,cpsjivxckeqjcgnbcjbgfinxps fvciqsogcqkcysbr;cgnbebcspcf
pqegcqkcpxjhqvspjcpieuoacuichbgrbbocup,cfcpqegcqkcfvabhefcqecrnfgcoqg!
Sc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.csg!cRbvv,cgnfg’pcfvvcoqopbopbtcQovx,cpbbsoacgnfgcxqu
febcoqgcfcpgu.bogcoqrcfo.cnfybcvqpgcxquecvbppqopcfo.cxquec vqgnbp,cfo.
gnfgcgnequancgnbcxquoacvf.x’pc.bfgncpnbcnfpcoqcobb.cgqcgebfgcxqucfp
fcebvfgsqo,cpnbcpu..bovxcgqqwckesang;cfo.cfpcxqucns.csocxquec.bocfo.
.eqiib.cfvvcxquecqv.cebvfgsqopcrsgncnbe,cpnbcivfoob.cgqcabgces.cqkcxqut
Fo.cpnb’pchbboc nbespnsoacgnfgc.bpsaocfcvqoacgsjb,chugcrfpcpqeexcgqcvqpb
gnbcScQcU,ckqecxqucfppueb.cnbecxquepbvkcgnfgcxquecjqgnbecrquv.cifxt”

“SgcrfpchfpbcqkcjbcgqcpfxcgnfgttttcJxcjqgnbecnbepbvkcspcfvjqpg
fchbaafetttcfo.cScgqv.cfcvsbcgqcwbbicjxcvq.asoatttcfo.chbckb.,”
cEfpwqvoswqycpfs.cvqu.vxcfo.c.spgso gvxt

“Xbp,cxquc.s.cybexcpbopshvxtcHugcgnbcrqepgcqkcsgcspcgnfgcfgcgnfgciqsog
JetcG nbhfeqycgueopcui,cfchupsobppcjfotcIfpnbowfcrquv.cobybecnfyb
gnquangcqkc.qsoacfoxgnsoacqocnbecqrocf  quog,cpnbcspcgqqcebgsesoa;chug
gnbchupsobppcjfocspchxcoqcjbfopcebgsesoa,cfo.cksepgcgnsoacnbciugpcgnb
lubpgsqo,c‘SpcgnbebcfoxcnqibcqkcebfvspsoacgnbcScQcU?’cFoprbe:cgnbebcsp,
hb fupbcnbcnfpcfcjqgnbecrnqcrquv.cpfybcnbecEq.xfcrsgncnbecnuo.eb.cfo.
grbogx-ksybcequhvbpcibopsqo,cskcpnbcnfpcgqcpgfeybcnbepbvk;cfo.cfcpspgbe,
gqq,crnqcrquv.caqcsogqchqo.fabckqecnspcpfwbtcGnfg’pcrnfgcnbcrfpchusv.soa
uiqottttcRnxc.qcxqucpgfeg?cScwoqrcfvvcgnbcsopcfo.cqugpcqkcxquecfkkfsep
oqr,cjxc.bfechqx--sg’pcoqgckqecoqgnsoacgnfgcxqucrbebcpqcqibocrsgn
Ifpnbowfcrnbocxqucrbebcnbecieqpib gsybcpqo-so-vfr,cfo.cScpfxcfvvcgnspcfp
fckesbo.ttttcHugcScgbvvcxqucrnfgcsgcsp;cfocnqobpgcfo.cpbopsgsybcjfocsp
qibo;cfo.cfchupsobppcjfoc‘vspgbopcfo.caqbpcqocbfgsoa’cxqucuitcRbvv,
gnbocpnbcafybcgnbcScQcUchxcrfxcqkcifxjbogcgqcgnspcG nbhfeqy,cfo.crsgnqug
nbpsgfgsqocnbcjf.bcfckqejfvc.bjfo.ckqecifxjbogtcRnbocScnbfe.cqkcfvvcgnsp
Scrfogb.cgqchvqrcnsjcui,cgqq,cgqc vbfecjxc qop sbo b,chugchxcgnfgcgsjb
nfejqoxcebsaob.chbgrbbocjbcfo.cIfpnbowf,cfo.cScsopspgb.cqocpgqiisoa
gnbcrnqvbcfkkfse,cboafasoacgnfgcxqucrquv.cifxtcScrbogcpb uesgxckqecxqu,
heqgnbetc.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.?cRbc fvvb.cG nbhfeqy,ckvuoacnsjcgbo
equhvbpcfo.caqgcgnbcScQcUchf wckeqjcnsj,cfo.cnbebcScnfybcgnbcnqoquecqk
iebpbogsoacsgcgqcxqutcPnbcgeupgpcxquecrqe.coqrtcNbeb,cgfwbcsg,cxqucpbbcS
nfybcgqeocsgt”

EfzujsnsociugcgnbcoqgbcqocgnbcgfhvbtcEfpwqvoswqycvqqwb.cfgcnsjcfo.
gueob.cgqcgnbcrfvvcrsgnqugcuggbesoacfcrqe.tcBybocEfzujsnsockbvgcf
grsoabt

“Scpbb,cheqgnbe,”cnbcpfs.cfcjqjbogcvfgbe,c“gnfgcScnfybchbbocivfxsoacgnb
kqqvcfafsotcScgnquangcScpnquv.cfjupbcxqucrsgncjxc nfggbe,cfo.cSchbvsbyb
Scnfybcqovxcjf.bcxquc eqppt”

“RfpcsgcxqucSc.s.coqgceb qaospbcrnbocScrfpc.bvsesqup?”cEfpwqvoswqy
fpwb.,cfkgbecfcjqjbog’pcifupbcrsgnqugcgueosoacnspcnbf.t

“Xbp,cfo.cxquckvbrcsogqcfcefabcfhqugcsg,cbpib sfvvxcrnbocSchequang
Zfjbgqycqobc.fxt”

“Zfjbgqy?cGnbcnbf.c vbew?cRnfgckqe?”cEfpwqvoswqycgueob.cequo.clus wvx
fo.cksdb.cnspcbxbpcqocEfzujsnsot

“Rnfg’pcgnbcjfggbecrsgncxqu?tttcRnfgcfebcxqucuipbgcfhqug?cNbcrfogb.cgq
jfwbcxquecf lufsogfo bchb fupbcScgfvwb.cgqcnsjcfcvqgcfhqugcxquttttcNqr
 quv.cScnfybckquo.cqugcpqcju ncbd bigckeqjcnsj?cNbcspcfc fisgfv
kbvvqr,cheqgnbe,cksepg-efgbtttcsocnspcqrocrfx,cqkc quepbtcOqrcrbcfeb
kesbo.p--pbbcbf ncqgnbecfvjqpgcbybexc.fxtcScnfybcjqyb.csogqcgnspcifeg,
xqucwoqrtcScnfybcqovxcmupgcjqyb.tcS’ybchbbocrsgncnsjcgqcVuspbcSyfoqyof
qo bcqecgrs bttttc.qcxqucebjbjhbecVuspb,cVuspbcSyfoqyof?

“.s.cScpfxcfoxgnsoacsoc.bvsesuj?”

“Scpnquv.cgnsowcpq!cXqucrbebchbps.bcxquepbvkt”

“Rnfgc.s.cScefybcfhqug?”

“Rnfgcobdg?cRnfgc.s.cxqucefybcfhqug?cRnfgcibqivbc.qcefybcfhqugttttcRbvv,
heqgnbe,coqrcScjupgcoqgcvqpbcgsjbtcGqcrqewt”cNbcaqgcuickeqjcgnbcgfhvb
fo.cgqqwcuicnspc fit

“Rnfgc.s.cScefybcfhqug?”

“Nqrcnbcwbbipcqo!cFebcxqucfkefs.cqkcnfysoacvbgcqugcpqjbcpb ebg?c.qo’g
rqeexcxquepbvk;cxqucpfs.coqgnsoacfhqugcfc quogbpptcHugcxqucpfs.cfcvqg
fhqugcfchuvv.qa,cfo.cfhqugcbfe-esoapcfo.c nfsop,cfo.cfhqugcWebpgqypwx
Spvfo.,cfo.cpqjbciqegbe,cfo.cOswq.sjcKqjsg ncfo.cSvxfcIbgeqysg n,cgnb
fppspgfogcpuibesogbo.bogtcFo.cfoqgnbecgnsoacgnfgcrfpcqkcpib sfvcsogbebpg
gqcxqucrfpcxquecqrocpq wtcXqucrnsob.,c‘Asybcjbcjxcpq wt’cZfjbgqy
nuogb.cfvvcfhqugcxqueceqqjckqecxquecpq wp,cfo.crsgncnspcqrocp bogb.,
esoa-hb.b wb.cksoabepcnbcafybcxqucgnbcefatcFo.cqovxcgnbocrbebcxqu
 qjkqegb.,cfo.ckqecgnbcobdgcgrbogx-kquecnquepcxqucnbv.cgnbcrebg nb.
gnsoacsocxquecnfo.;crbc quv.coqgcabgcsgckeqjcxqutcSgcspcjqpgcvswbvx
pqjbrnbebcuo.becxqueclusvgcfgcgnspcjqjbogtcFo.cgnbocxqucfpwb.cpq
isgbqupvxckqeckesoabckqecxquecgequpbeptcRbcgesb.cgqckso.cqugcrnfgcpqeg
qkckesoab,chugcrbc quv.coqgcjfwbcsgcqugtcOqrcgqchupsobpp!cNbebcfeb
gnsegx-ksybcequhvbp;cScgfwbcgbocqkcgnbj,cfo.cpnfvvcasybcxqucfocf  quog
qkcgnbjcsocfocnquecqecgrqtcScrsvvcvbgcZqppsjqycwoqrcfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjb,
gnquancnbcquangcgqcnfybchbbocnbebcvqoacfaq,ckqecsgcspcobfevxcgrbvybtcFo.
xqu,cOfpgfpxf,cvqqwcsociebggxcqkgbocrnsvbcScfjcfrfx,cgqcpbbcrnbgnbecnb
rfogpcfc.esowcqecfoxgnsoacbvpbtcFo.cScrsvvcgbvvcIfpnbowfcrnfgcspcrfogb.
jxpbvktcAqq.-hxb!”

“Nbc fvvpcnbecIfpnbowf!cFn,cnb’pcfc.bbicqob!”cpfs.cOfpgfpxfcfpcnbcrbog
qug;cgnbocpnbcqibob.cgnbc.qqecfo.cpgqq.cvspgbosoa,chugc quv.coqgcebpspg
euoosoac.qropgfsepcfkgbecnsjtcPnbcrfpcybexcbfabecgqcnbfecrnfgcnbcrquv.
pfxcgqcgnbcvfo.vf.xtcPnbcrfpcbys.bogvxclusgbckfp sofgb.chxcEfzujsnsot

Oqcpqqobecnf.cpnbcvbkgcgnbceqqjcgnfocgnbcps wcjfockvuoacqkkcgnb
hb. vqgnbpcfo.cvbfigcqugcqkchb.cvswbcfcjf.jfotcRsgnchueosoa,cgrsg nsoa
sjifgsbo bcnbcnf.crfsgb.ckqecgnbjcgqchbcaqobcpqcgnfgcnbcjsangcpbgcgq
rqewtcHugcgqcrnfgcrqew?cOqr,cfpcgnquancgqcpisgbcnsj,csgcbvu.b.cnsjt

“Aqq.cAq.,cqovxcgbvvcjbcqobcgnsoa:c.qcgnbxcwoqrcqkcsgcxbgcqecoqg?cRnfg
skcgnbxcwoqrcsgcfo.cfebcqovxciebgbo.soa,cjq wsoacjbcrnsvbcScfjcvfs.cui,
fo.cgnbocgnbxcrsvvc qjbcsocfo.cgbvvcjbcgnfgcsg’pchbboc.sp qybeb.cvqoa
faqcfo.cgnfgcgnbxcnfybcqovxtttcRnfgcfjcScgqc.qcoqr?cGnfg’pcrnfgcS’yb
kqeaqggbo,cfpcgnquancqociueiqpb;ckqeaqggbocsgcfvvcfgcqo b,cScebjbjhbeb.
fcjsougbcfaqt”

Nbcpgqq.csocgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbceqqjcfo.cafzb.csocjspbefhvbchbrsv.bejbog
fhqugcnsj;cnbcrfvwb.cgqcgnbc.qqe,cqibob.csg,cvspgbob.;chugcgnfgcrfpcoqg
rnfgcnbcrfogb.tcPu..bovx,cfpcgnquanceb fvvsoacpqjbgnsoa,cnbceupnb.cgq
gnbc qeobecrnbebcgnbebcrfpcfcnqvbcuo.becgnbcifibe,chbafocbdfjsosoacsg,
iugcnspcnfo.csogqcgnbcnqvb,ckujhvb.--hugcgnfgcrfpcoqgcsgtcNbcrbogcgqcgnb
pgqyb,cqibob.csgcfo.chbafoceujjfasoacsocgnbcfpnbp;cgnbckefxb.cb.abpcqk
nspcgequpbepcfo.cgnbcefapc ugcqkkcnspciq wbgcrbebcvxsoacgnbebcmupgcfp
nbcnf.cgneqrocgnbjtcOqcqobcnf.cvqqwb.,cgnbo!cGnbocnbcebjbjhbeb.cgnbcpq w
fhqugcrns ncEfzujsnsocnf.cmupgchbbocgbvvsoacnsjtcXbp,cgnbebcsgcvfxcqo
gnbcpqkfcuo.becgnbclusvg,chugcsgcrfpcpqc qybeb.crsgnc.upgcfo.caesjbcgnfg
Zfjbgqyc quv.coqgcnfybcpbbocfoxgnsoacqocsgt

“Hfn,cZfjbgqy!cGnbciqvs bcqkks b!cFo.crnxcfjcScpbogckqecgqcgnbciqvs b
qkks b?cRnbeb’pcgnbcoqgs b?cHfn!cScfjcjsdsoacsgcui;cgnfgcrfpcgnbotcS
vqqwb.cfgcjxcpq wcgnbo,cgqq,chugcoqrtttcoqrcScnfybchbbocsvvtcHug
rnfgc.s.cZfjbgqyc qjbckqe?cRnxc.s.cEfzujsnsochesoacnsj?”cnbcjuggbeb.,
nbvivbppvxcpsggsoacqocgnbcpqkfcfafsotc“Rnfgc.qbpcsgcjbfo?cFjcScpgsvvcso
.bvsesuj,cqecspcsgcebfv?cSchbvsbybcsgcspcebfvttttcFn,cScebjbjhbe;cScjupg
bp fib!cJfwbcnfpgbcgqcbp fibtcXbp,cScjupg,cScjupgcbp fib!cXbptttchug
rnbeb?cFo.crnbebcfebcjxc vqgnbp?cS’ybcoqchqqgptcGnbx’ybcgfwbocgnbjcfrfx!
Gnbx’ybcns..bocgnbj!cScuo.bepgfo.!cFn,cnbebcspcjxc qfg--gnbxcifppb.cgnfg
qybe!cFo.cnbebcspcjqobxcqocgnbcgfhvb,cgnfowcAq.!cFo.cnbeb’pcgnbcScQcUttt
S’vvcgfwbcgnbcjqobxcfo.caqcfo.cgfwbcfoqgnbecvq.asoatcGnbxcrqo’gckso.
jb!tttcXbp,chugcgnbcf..ebppchuebfu?cGnbx’vvckso.cjb,cEfzujsnsocrsvvckso.
jbtcHbggbecbp fibcfvgqabgnbetttckfecfrfxtttcgqcFjbes f,cfo.cvbgcgnbj
.qcgnbsecrqepg!cFo.cgfwbcgnbcScQcUtttcsgcrquv.chbcqkcupbcgnbebttttcRnfg
bvpbcpnfvvcScgfwb?cGnbxcgnsowcScfjcsvv!cGnbxc.qo’gcwoqrcgnfgcSc focrfvw,
nf-nf-nf!cSc quv.cpbbchxcgnbsecbxbpcgnfgcgnbxcwoqrcfvvcfhqugcsg!cSk
qovxcSc quv.cabgc.qropgfsep!cFo.crnfgcskcgnbxcnfybcpbgcfcrfg n
gnbeb--iqvs bjbo!cRnfg’pcgnspcgbf?cFn,cfo.cnbebcspchbbecvbkg,cnfvkcf
hqggvb,c qv.!”

Nbcpofg nb.cuicgnbchqggvb,crns ncpgsvvc qogfsob.cfcavfppkuvcqkchbbe,cfo.
auvib.csgc.qrocrsgncebvspn,cfpcgnquanclubo nsoacfckvfjbcsocnspchebfpgt
Hugcsocfoqgnbecjsougbcgnbchbbecnf.caqobcgqcnspcnbf.,cfo.cfckfsogcfo.
bybocivbfpfogcpnsybecefoc.qrocnspcpisobtcNbcvfxc.qrocfo.ciuvvb.cgnb
lusvgcqybecnsjtcNspcps wcfo.cso qnbebogcgnquangpcaebrcjqebcfo.cjqeb
.sp qoob gb.,cfo.cpqqocfcvsang,civbfpfogc.eqrpsobppc fjbcuiqocnsjtcRsgn
fcpbopbcqkc qjkqegcnbcobpgvb.cnspcnbf.csogqcgnbcisvvqr,crefiib.cjqeb
 vqpbvxcfhqugcnsjcgnbcpqkg,crf..b.clusvgcrns ncnf.cebivf b.cgnbcqv.,
efaab.caebfg qfg,cpsanb.cpqkgvxcfo.cpfowcsogqcfc.bbi,cpquo.,cebkebpnsoa
pvbbit

Nbcrqwbcui,cnbfesoacpqjbqobc qjbcsotcNbcqibob.cnspcbxbpcfo.cpfr
Efzujsnsocpgfo.soacsocgnbc.qqerfx,cuo begfsocrnbgnbecgqc qjbcsocqe
oqgtcEfpwqvoswqycpfgcuiclus wvxcqocgnbcpqkfcfo.cafzb.cfgcnsj,cfpcgnquan
gexsoacgqceb fvvcpqjbgnsoat

“Fn,cxqucfebcoqgcfpvbbi!cNbebcScfj!cOfpgfpxf,chesoacsocgnbcife bv!”
cEfzujsnsocpnqugb.c.qrocgnbcpgfseptc“Xqucpnfvvcnfybcgnbcf  quog
.seb gvxt”

“Rnfgcgsjbcspcsg?”cfpwb.cEfpwqvoswqy,cvqqwsoacequo.cuobfpsvxt

“Xbp,cxqucnf.cfcksobcpvbbi,cheqgnbe,csg’pcfvjqpgcbybosoa,csgcrsvvchbcpsd
q’ vq wc.seb gvxtcXqucnfybcpvbigcjqebcgnfocpsdcnquept”

“Aqq.cnbfybop!cNfybcS?”

“Fo.crnxcoqg?cSgcrsvvc.qcxqucaqq.tcRnfg’pcgnbcnueex?cFcgexpg,cspcsg?
Rb’ybcfvvcgsjbchbkqebcuptcS’ybchbbocrfsgsoackqecgnbcvfpgcgnebbcnquepckqe
xqu;cS’ybchbbocuicgrs bcfo.ckquo.cxqucfpvbbitcS’ybc fvvb.cqocZqppsjqy
grs b;coqgcfgcnqjb,cqovxckfo x!cHugcoqcjfggbe,cnbcrsvvcgueocuitcFo.
S’ybchbbocqugcqocjxcqrochupsobpp,cgqqtcXqucwoqrcS’ybchbbocjqysoacgq-.fx,
jqysoacrsgncjxcuo vbtcScnfybcfocuo vbcvsysoacrsgncjbcoqrtcHugcgnfg’p
oqcjfggbe,cgqchupsobpptcAsybcjbcgnbcife bv,cOfpgfpxftcRbcrsvvcqibocsg
.seb gvxtcFo.cnqrc.qcxquckbbvcoqr,cheqgnbe?”

“Scfjclusgbcrbvv,cScfjcoqgcsvvtcEfzujsnso,cnfybcxquchbbocnbebcvqoa?”

“ScgbvvcxqucS’ybchbbocrfsgsoackqecgnbcvfpgcgnebbcnquept”

“Oq,chbkqebt”

“Nqrc.qcxqucjbfo?”

“Nqrcvqoacnfybcxquchbboc qjsoacnbeb?”

“RnxcScgqv.cxqucfvvcfhqugcsgcgnspcjqeosoatc.qo’gcxqucebjbjhbe?”

Efpwqvoswqyciqo.beb.tcGnbcjqeosoacpbbjb.cvswbcfc.ebfjcgqcnsjtcNbc quv.
oqgcebjbjhbecfvqob,cfo.cvqqwb.csolusesoavxcfgcEfzujsnsot

“Nj!”cpfs.cgnbcvfggbe,c“nbcnfpckqeaqggbotcSckfo sb.cgnbocgnfgcxqucrbeb
oqgclusgbcxquepbvktcOqrcxqucfebchbggbeckqecxquecpvbbittttcXqucebfvvx
vqqwcju nchbggbetcKsepg-efgb!cRbvv,cgqchupsobpptcVqqwcnbeb,cjxc.bfe
hqxt”

Nbchbafocuogxsoacgnbchuo.vb,crns ncbys.bogvxcsogbebpgb.cnsjt

“Hbvsbybcjb,cheqgnbe,cgnspcspcpqjbgnsoacpib sfvvxcobfecjxcnbfegtcKqecrb
jupgcjfwbcfcjfocqkcxqutcVbg’pchbasockeqjcgnbcgqitc.qcxqucpbbcgnsp
 fi?”cnbcpfs.,cgfwsoacqugcqkcgnbchuo.vbcfckfsevxcaqq.cgnquanc nbficfo.
qe.sofexc fitc“Vbgcjbcgexcsgcqot”

“Iebpbogvx,cfkgberfe.p,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,crfysoacsgcqkkcibggspnvxt

“ qjb,cEq.xf,cjxchqx,c.qo’gcqiiqpbcsg,cfkgberfe.pcrsvvchbcgqqcvfgb;cfo.
Scpnfo’gcpvbbicfvvcosang,ckqecSchquangcsgchxcaubpp,crsgnqugcjbfpuebt
Mupgcesang!”cnbc esb.cgesujinfogvx,cksggsoacsgcqo,c“mupgcxquecpszb!cF
ieqibecnbf.- qybesoacspcgnbcksepgcgnsoacsoc.ebppcfo.cfceb qjjbo.fgsqocso
sgpcqrocrfxtcGqvpgxfwqy,cfckesbo.cqkcjsob,cspcfvrfxpcqhvsab.cgqcgfwbcqkk
nspciu..soachfpsocrnbocnbcaqbpcsogqcfoxciuhvs civf bcrnbebcqgnbe
ibqivbcrbfecgnbsecnfgpcqec fiptcIbqivbcgnsowcnbc.qbpcsgckeqjcpvfyspn
iqvsgbobpp,chugcsg’pcpsjivxchb fupbcnbcspcfpnfjb.cqkcnspchse.’pcobpg;
nbcspcpu ncfchqfpgkuvckbvvqr!cVqqw,cOfpgfpxf,cnbebcfebcgrqcpib sjbopcqk
nbf.abfe:cgnspcIfvjbepgqo”--nbcgqqwckeqjcgnbc qeobecEfpwqvoswqy’pcqv.,
hfggbeb.cnfg,crns nckqecpqjbcuowoqrocebfpqo,cnbc fvvb.cfcIfvjbepgqo--“qe
gnspcmbrbv!cAubppcgnbcies b,cEq.xf,crnfgc.qcxqucpuiiqpbcScifs.ckqecsg,
Ofpgfpxf!”cnbcpfs.,cgueosoacgqcnbe,cpbbsoacgnfgcEfpwqvoswqyc.s.coqg
pibfwt

“Grbogxc qib wp,coqcjqeb,cSc.febcpfx,”cfoprbeb.cOfpgfpxft

“Grbogxc qib wp,cpsvvx!”cnbc esb.,cqkkbo.b.tc“Rnx,coqrf.fxpcxqucrquv.
 qpgcjqebcgnfocgnfg--bsangxc qib wp!cFo.cgnfgcqovxchb fupbcsgcnfpchbbo
rqeotcFo.csg’pchquangcqoc qo.sgsqocgnfgcrnbo’pcsg’pcrqeocqug,cgnbxcrsvv
asybcxqucfoqgnbecobdgcxbfetcXbp,cqocjxcrqe.!cRbvv,coqrcvbgcupcifppcgq
gnbcUosgb.cPgfgbpcqkcFjbes f,cfpcgnbxc fvvb.cgnbjcfgcp nqqvtcScfppueb
xqucScfjciequ.cqkcgnbpbchebb nbp,”cfo.cnbcbdnshsgb.cgqcEfpwqvoswqycf
ifsecqkcvsang,cpujjbecgequpbepcqkcaebxcrqqvvbocjfgbesfvtc“Oqcnqvbp,coq
piqgp,cfo.clusgbcebpib gfhvb,cfvgnquancfcvsggvbcrqeo;cfo.cfcrfspg qfg
gqcjfg n,clusgbcsocgnbckfpnsqotcFo.csgpchbsoacrqeocebfvvxcspcfo
sjieqybjbog,csg’pcpqkgbe,cpjqqgnbettttcXqucpbb,cEq.xf,cgqcjxcgnsowsoa,
gnbcaebfgcgnsoackqecabggsoacqocsocgnbcrqev.cspcfvrfxpcgqcwbbicgqcgnb
pbfpqop;cskcxquc.qo’gcsopspgcqocnfysoacfpifefaupcsocMfoufex,cxqucwbbi
xquecjqobxcsocxqueciuepb;cfo.csg’pcgnbcpfjbcrsgncgnspciue nfpbtcSg’p
pujjbecoqr,cpqcS’ybchbbochuxsoacpujjbecgnsoap--rfejbecjfgbesfvpcrsvvchb
rfogb.ckqecfugujo,cpqcxqucrsvvcnfybcgqcgneqrcgnbpbcfrfxcsocfoxc fpbttt
bpib sfvvxcfpcgnbxcrsvvchbc.qobckqechxcgnbockeqjcgnbsecqrocvf wcqk
 qnbebo bcskcoqgcxquecnsanbecpgfo.fe.cqkcvuduextc qjb,cies bcgnbj!cRnfg
.qcxqucpfx?cGrqcequhvbpcgrbogx-ksybc qib wp!cFo.cebjbjhbecgnbc qo.sgsqo:
skcxqucrbfecgnbpbcqug,cxqucrsvvcnfybcfoqgnbecpusgckqecoqgnsoa!cGnbxcqovx
.qchupsobppcqocgnfgcpxpgbjcfgcKb.xfby’p;cskcxqu’ybchquangcfcgnsoacqo b,
xqucfebcpfgspksb.ckqecvskb,ckqecxqucrsvvcobybecaqcgnbebcfafsocqkcxque
qrockebbcrsvvtcOqrckqecgnbchqqgptcRnfgc.qcxqucpfx?cXqucpbbcgnfgcgnbxcfeb
fchsgcrqeo,chugcgnbx’vvcvfpgcfc quivbcqkcjqognp,ckqecsg’pckqebsaocrqew
fo.ckqebsaocvbfgnbe;cgnbcpb ebgfexcqkcgnbcBoavspncBjhfppxcpqv.cgnbjcvfpg
rbbw--nbcnf.cqovxcrqeocgnbjcpsdc.fxp,chugcnbcrfpcybexcpnqegcqkc fpnt
Ies b--fcequhvbcfo.cfcnfvktcFchfeafso?”

“Hugcibenfipcgnbxcrqo’gcksg,”cqhpbeyb.cOfpgfpxft

“Oqgcksg?cMupgcvqqw!”cfo.cnbciuvvb.cqugcqkcnspciq wbgcEfpwqvoswqy’p
qv.,cheqwbochqqg,cpgskkvxc qfgb.crsgnc.excju.tc“Sc.s.coqgcaq
bjigx-nfo.b.--gnbxcgqqwcgnbcpszbckeqjcgnspcjqopgbetcRbcfvvc.s.cquechbpgt
Fo.cfpcgqcxquecvsobo,cxquecvfo.vf.xcnfpcpbbocgqcgnfgtcNbeb,cgqchbaso
rsgncfebcgnebbcpnsegp,cnbjibochugcrsgncfckfpnsqofhvbckeqogttttcRbvv
oqrcgnbo,cbsangxc qib wpcgnbc fi,cgrqcequhvbpcgrbogx-ksybc qib wpcgnb
pusg--gqabgnbecgnebbcequhvbpcksybc qib wp--fcequhvbcfo.cfcnfvkckqecgnb
hqqgp--kqe,cxqucpbb,cgnbxcfebcybexcaqq.--fo.cgnfgcjfwbpckquecequhvbp
kskgx-ksybc qib wp;cksybcequhvbpckqecgnbcuo.be vqgnbp--gnbxcrbeb
hquangcsocgnbcvqg--rns ncjfwbpcbdf gvxcosobcequhvbpckskgx-ksybc qib wpt
Kqegx-ksybc qib wpc nfoabcsoc qiibeptcRsvvcxqucgfwbcsg?cFo.cpq,cEq.xf,
xqucfebcpbgcuicrsgncfc qjivbgbcobrcesa-qug,ckqecxquecqybe qfgcrsvv
pbeyb,cfo.cbybocnfpcfcpgxvbcqkcsgpcqrotcGnfgc qjbpckeqjcabggsoacqob’p
 vqgnbpckeqjcPnfejbe’p!cFpckqecxquecpq wpcfo.cqgnbecgnsoap,cScvbfybcgnbj
gqcxqu;crb’ybcgrbogx-ksybcequhvbpcvbkgtcFo.cfpckqecIfpnbowfcfo.cifxsoa
kqecxquecvq.asoa,c.qo’gcxqucrqeextcScgbvvcxqucpnb’vvcgeupgcxquckqe
foxgnsoatcFo.coqr,cheqgnbe,cvbgcjbc nfoabcxquecvsobo,ckqecSc.febpfxcxqu
rsvvcgneqrcqkkcxquecsvvobppcrsgncxquecpnsegt”

“Vbgcjbchb!cSc.qo’gcrfogcgq!”cEfpwqvoswqycrfyb.cnsjcqkktcNbcnf.cvspgbob.
rsgnc.spaupgcgqcEfzujsnso’pcbkkqegpcgqchbcivfxkuvcfhqugcnspciue nfpbpt

“ qjb,cheqgnbe,c.qo’gcgbvvcjbcS’ybchbbocgeu.asoacfequo.ckqecoqgnsoa,”
cEfzujsnsocsopspgb.tc“Ofpgfpxf,c.qo’gchbchfpnkuv,chugcnbvicjb--gnfg’p
sg,”cfo.csocpisgbcqkcEfpwqvoswqy’pcebpspgfo bcnbc nfoab.cnspcvsobotcGnb
vfggbecpfowchf wcqocgnbcisvvqrpcfo.ckqecfcjsougbcqecgrqcpfs.coqgnsoat

“SgcrsvvchbcvqoachbkqebcScabgces.cqkcgnbj,”cnbcgnquangtc“Rnfgcjqobxcrfp
fvvcgnfgchquangcrsgn?”cnbcfpwb.cfgcvfpg,cafzsoacfgcgnbcrfvvt

“Jqobx?cRnx,cxquecqro,crnfgcgnbcjbppboabechequangckeqjcYfneupnso,cxque
jqgnbecpbogcsgtcNfybcxquckqeaqggbocgnfg,cgqq?”

“Scebjbjhbecoqr,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqycfkgbecfcvqoa,cpuvvbocpsvbo bt
Efzujsnsocvqqwb.cfgcnsj,ckeqrosoacfo.cuobfpxt

Gnbc.qqecqibob.cfo.cfcgfvv,cpgqugcjfocrnqpbcfiibfefo bcpbbjb.ckfjsvsfe
gqcEfpwqvoswqyc fjbcsot



 NFIGBEcSY

Zqppsjqycrfpcfcgfvv,ckfgcjfocrsgncfciukkx,c qvquevbpp,c vbfo-pnfybockf b
fo.cpgefsangckvfdbocnfsetcNbcrqebcpib gf vbp,cfo.cfchsacaqv.cesoacqo
nspckfgcksoabetcNbcrfpcgrbogx-pbybotcNbcnf.cqocfcvsangcaebxckfpnsqofhvb
vqqpbc qfg,cvsangcpujjbecgequpbep,cfo.cbybexgnsoacfhqugcnsjcvqqpb,
kfpnsqofhvbcfo.cpis wcfo.cpifo;cnspcvsobocrfpcseebieqf nfhvb,cnsp
rfg n- nfsocrfpcjfppsybtcSocjfoobecnbcrfpcpvqrcfo.,cfpcsgcrbeb,
oqo nfvfog,cfo.cfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcpgu.squpvxckebbcfo.cbfpx;cnbcjf.b
bkkqegpcgqc qo bfvcnspcpbvk-sjiqegfo b,chugcsgcrfpcfiifebogcfgcbybex
sopgfogtcFvvcnspcf lufsogfo bpckquo.cnsjcgb.squp,chugcpfs.cnbcrfpc vbybe
fgcnspcrqewt

“S’ybchbbocgqcxqucgrs bcgq-.fx,cheqgnbetcXqucpbb,cnb’pc qjbcgqcnsjpbvk,”
c esb.cEfzujsnsot

“Scpbb,cScpbb;cfo.cnqrc.qcrbckbbvcoqr,cbn?”cpfs.cZqppsjqycgq
Efpwqvoswqy,crfg nsoacnsjc febkuvvxcfo.,cpsggsoac.qrocfgcgnbckqqgcqkcgnb
pqkf,cnbcpbggvb.cnsjpbvkcfpc qjkqegfhvxcfpcnbc quv.t

“Nbcspcpgsvvc.biebppb.,”cEfzujsnsocrbogcqotc“Rb’ybcmupgc nfoab.cnsp
vsobocfo.cnbcfvjqpgc esb.t”

“Gnfg’pcybexcofguefv;cxqucjsangcnfybciugcsgcqkkcskcnbc.s.coqgcrspn
sgttttcNspciuvpbcspcksepg-efgbtcSpcxquecnbf.cpgsvvcf nsoa,cbn?”

“Scfjcrbvv,cScfjcibekb gvxcrbvv!”cEfpwqvoswqyc.b vfeb.ciqpsgsybvx
fo.cseesgfhvxtcNbcefspb.cnsjpbvkcqocgnbcpqkfcfo.cvqqwb.cfgcgnbjcrsgn
avsggbesoacbxbp,chugcpfowchf wcqocgqcgnbcisvvqrcfgcqo bcfo.cgueob.cgq
gnbcrfvvtcZqppsjqycrfg nb.cnsjcsogbogvxt

“Ybexcaqq.ttttcAqsoacqocfvvcesang,”cnbcpfs.cvfzsvxtc“Nfpcnbcbfgbo
foxgnsoa?”

Gnbxcgqv.cnsj,cfo.cfpwb.crnfgcnbcjsangcnfybt

“Nbcjfxcnfybcfoxgnsoatttcpqui,cgbftttcjupneqqjpcfo.c u ujhbep,cqk
 quepb,cxqucjupgcoqgcasybcnsj;cnb’.chbggbecoqgcnfybcjbfgcbsgnbe,cfo.ttt
hugcoqcobb.cgqcgbvvcxqucgnfg!”cEfzujsnsocfo.cnbcvqqwb.cfgcbf n
qgnbetc“Oqcjqebcjb.s sobcqecfoxgnsoatcS’vvcvqqwcfgcnsjcfafsocgq-jqeeqrt
Ibenfip,cgq-.fxcbybotttchugcobybecjso.ttt”

“Gq-jqeeqrcbybosoacScpnfvvcgfwbcnsjckqecfcrfvw,”cpfs.cEfzujsnsotc“Rbcfeb
aqsoacgqcgnbcXupuiqycafe.bocfo.cgnbocgqcgnbcIfvfspc.bc espgfvt”

“Scrquv.coqgc.spguehcnsjcgq-jqeeqrcfgcfvv,chugcSc.qo’gcwoqrtttcfcvsggvb,
jfxhbtttchugcrb’vvcpbbt”

“F n,crnfgcfcouspfo b!cS’ybcaqgcfcnqupb-rfejsoacifegxcgq-osang;csg’p
qovxcfcpgbickeqjcnbebtc quv.o’gcnbc qjb?cNbc quv.cvsbcqocgnbcpqkftcXqu
febc qjsoa?”cEfzujsnsocpfs.cgqcZqppsjqytc“.qo’gckqeabg,cxqucieqjspb.t”

“Fvvcesang,cqovxcefgnbecvfgbetcRnfgcfebcxqucaqsoacgqc.q?”

“Qn,coqgnsoa--gbf,cyq.wf,cnbeesoaptcGnbebcrsvvchbcfcisbtttcmupgcque
kesbo.pt”

“Fo.crnq?”

“Fvvcobsanhquepcnbeb,cfvjqpgcfvvcobrckesbo.p,cbd bigcjxcqv.cuo vb,cfo.
nbcspcobrcgqq--nbcqovxcfeesyb.csocIbgbephueacxbpgbe.fxcgqcpbbcgqcpqjb
hupsobppcqkcnsptcRbcjbbgcqo bcsocksybcxbfept”

“Rnfgcspcnb?”

“Nb’pchbbocpgfaofgsoacfvvcnspcvskbcfpcfc.spges gciqpgjfpgbe;cabgpcf
vsggvbcibopsqotcNbcspcpsdgx-ksyb--oqgcrqegncgfvwsoacfhqugttttcHugcS
fjckqo.cqkcnsjtcIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,cgnbcnbf.cqkcgnbcSoybpgsafgsqo
.bifegjbogcnbebtttcHugcxqucwoqrcnsjt”

“Spcnbcfcebvfgsqocqkcxquep,cgqq?”

“Fcybexc.spgfogcqobtcHugcrnxcfebcxqucp qrvsoa?cHb fupbcxquclufeebvvb.
qo b,crqo’gcxquc qjbcgnbo?”

“Sc.qo’gc febcfc.fjockqecnsjt”

“Pqcju ncgnbchbggbetcRbvv,cgnbebcrsvvchbcpqjbcpgu.bogp,cfcgbf nbe,cf
aqybeojbogc vbew,cfcjups sfo,cfocqkks becfo.cZfjbgqyt”

“.qcgbvvcjb,civbfpb,crnfgcxqucqecnb”--Zqppsjqycoq..b.cfg
Efpwqvoswqy--“ focnfybcsoc qjjqocrsgncgnspcZfjbgqy?”

“Qn,cxqucifegs uvfecabogvbjfo!cIeso sivbp!cXqucfebcrqewb.chxcieso sivbp,
fpcsgcrbebchxcpiesoap;cxqucrqo’gcyboguebcgqcgueocequo.cqocxquecqro
f  quogtcSkcfcjfocspcfcos bckbvvqr,cgnfg’pcgnbcqovxcieso sivbcScaqcuiqot
Zfjbgqycspcfc.bvsangkuvcibepqot”

“Gnquancnbc.qbpcgfwbcheshbpt”

“Rbvv,cnbc.qbp!cfo.crnfgcqkcsg?cSc.qo’gc febcskcnbc.qbpcgfwbcheshbp,”
cEfzujsnsoc esb.crsgncuoofguefvcseesgfhsvsgxtc“Sc.qo’gciefspbcnsjckqe
gfwsoacheshbptcScqovxcpfxcnbcspcfcos bcjfocsocnspcqrocrfx!cHugcskcqob
vqqwpcfgcjbocsocfvvcrfxp--febcgnbebcjfoxcaqq.cqobpcvbkg?cRnx,cScfjcpueb
Scpnquv.o’gchbcrqegncfchfwb.cqosqocjxpbvktttcibenfipcrsgncxqucgneqro
sot”

“Gnfg’pcgqqcvsggvb;cS’.casybcgrqckqecxqut”

“Fo.cScrquv.o’gcasybcjqebcgnfocqobckqecxqutcOqcjqebcqkcxquecmqwbp!
ZfjbgqycspcoqcjqebcgnfocfchqxtcSc fociuvvcnspcnfsecfo.cqobcjupgc.efrcnsj
oqgcebibvcnsjtcXqu’vvcobybecsjieqybcfcjfochxcebibvvsoacnsj,cbpib sfvvx
fchqxtcQobcnfpcgqchbcgrs bcfpc febkuvcrsgncfchqxtcQn,cxqucieqaebppsyb
.uvvfe.p!cXquc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.tcXqucnfejcxquepbvybpceuoosoacfoqgnbecjfo
.qrottttcHugcskcxqucrfogcgqcwoqr,crbcebfvvxcnfybcpqjbgnsoacsoc qjjqot”

“Scpnquv.cvswbcgqcwoqrcrnfgt”

“Rnx,csg’pcfvvcfhqugcfcnqupb-ifsogbettttcRbcfebcabggsoacnsjcqugcqk
fcjbpp!cGnquancso.bb.cgnbeb’pcoqgnsoacgqckbfecoqrtcGnbcjfggbecsp
fhpqvugbvxcpbvk-bys.bogtcRbcqovxciugcqocpgbfjt”

“Fcifsogbe?”

“Rnx,cnfybo’gcScgqv.cxqucfhqugcsg?cScqovxcgqv.cxqucgnbchbasoosoacgnbo
fhqugcgnbcjue.becqkcgnbcqv.cifroheqwbe-rqjfotcRbvv,cgnbcifsogbecspcjsdb.
uicsocsgttt”

“Qn,cScnbfe.cfhqugcgnfgcjue.bechbkqebcfo.crfpcefgnbecsogbebpgb.csocsgttt
ifegvxtttckqecqobcebfpqottttcScebf.cfhqugcsgcsocgnbcifibep,cgqqtttt”

“Vszfybgfcrfpcjue.beb.,cgqq,”cOfpgfpxfchvuegb.cqug,cpu..bovxcf..ebppsoa
EfpwqvoswqytcPnbcebjfsob.csocgnbceqqjcfvvcgnbcgsjb,cpgfo.soachxcgnbc.qqe
vspgbosoat

“Vszfybgf,”cjuejueb.cEfpwqvoswqycnfe.vxcfu.shvxt

“Vszfybgf,crnqcpqv.cqv.c vqgnbptc.s.o’gcxqucwoqrcnbe?cPnbcupb.cgqc qjb
nbebtcPnbcjbo.b.cfcpnsegckqecxqu,cgqqt”

Efpwqvoswqycgueob.cgqcgnbcrfvvcrnbebcsocgnbc.segx,cxbvvqrcifibecnb
is wb.cqugcqobc vujpx,crnsgbckvqrbecrsgncheqrocvsobpcqocsgcfo.chbafo
bdfjsosoacnqrcjfoxcibgfvpcgnbebcrbebcsocsg,cnqrcjfoxcp fvvqipcsocgnb
ibgfvpcfo.cnqrcjfoxcvsobpcqocgnbjtcNbckbvgcnspcfejpcfo.cvbapcfpcvskbvbpp
fpcgnquancgnbxcnf.chbboc ugcqkktcNbc.s.coqgcfggbjigcgqcjqyb,chugcpgfeb.
qhpgsofgbvxcfgcgnbckvqrbet

“Hugcrnfgcfhqugcgnbcifsogbe?”cZqppsjqycsogbeeuigb.cOfpgfpxf’pc nfggbe
rsgncjfewb.c.spivbfpuebtcPnbcpsanb.cfo.crfpcpsvbogt

“Rnx,cnbcrfpcf  upb.cqkcgnbcjue.be,”cEfzujsnsocrbogcqocnqgvxt

“Rfpcgnbebcbys.bo bcfafsopgcnsjcgnbo?”

“Bys.bo b,cso.bb.!cBys.bo bcgnfgcrfpcoqcbys.bo b,cfo.cgnfg’pcrnfgcrb
nfybcgqcieqybtcSgcrfpcmupgcfpcgnbxcisg nb.cqocgnqpbckbvvqrp,cWq ncfo.
Ibpgexfwqy,cfgcksepgtcKqq!cnqrcpguis.vxcsg’pcfvvc.qob,csgcjfwbpcqob
ps w,cgnquancsg’pcoqgcqob’pchupsobpp!cIbpgexfwqycjfxchbc qjsoa
gq-osangttttcHxcgnbcrfx,cEq.xf,cxqu’ybcnbfe.cfhqugcgnbchupsobppcfvebf.x;
sgcnfiibob.chbkqebcxqucrbebcsvv,cgnbc.fxchbkqebcxquckfsogb.cfgcgnb
iqvs bcqkks bcrnsvbcgnbxcrbebcgfvwsoacfhqugcsgt”

Zqppsjqycvqqwb.c uesqupvxcfgcEfpwqvoswqytcNbc.s.coqgcpgset

“HugcScpfx,cEfzujsnso,cScrqo.becfgcxqutcRnfgcfchupxhq.xcxqucfeb!”
cZqppsjqycqhpbeyb.t

“JfxhbcScfj,chugcrbcrsvvcabgcnsjcqkkcfoxrfx,”cpnqugb.cEfzujsnso,
hesoasoacnspckspgc.qrocqocgnbcgfhvbtc“Rnfg’pcgnbcjqpgcqkkbopsybcspcoqg
gnbsecvxsoa--qobc focfvrfxpckqeasybcvxsoa--vxsoacspcfc.bvsangkuvcgnsoa,
kqecsgcvbf.pcgqcgeugn--rnfgcspcqkkbopsybcspcgnfgcgnbxcvsbcfo.crqepnsi
gnbsecqrocvxsoattttcScebpib gcIqeksex,chugtttcRnfgcgnebrcgnbjcqugcfg
ksepg?cGnbc.qqecrfpcvq wb.,cfo.crnbocgnbxc fjbchf wcrsgncgnbciqegbe
sgcrfpcqibotcPqcsgckqvvqrb.cgnfgcWq ncfo.cIbpgexfwqycrbebcgnb
jue.bebep--gnfgcrfpcgnbsecvqas !”

“Hugc.qo’gcbd sgbcxquepbvk;cgnbxcpsjivxc.bgfsob.cgnbj,cgnbxc quv.coqg
nbvicgnfgttttcFo.,chxcgnbcrfx,cS’ybcjbgcgnfgcjfocWq ntcNbcupb.cgqchux
uoeb.bbjb.civb.abpckeqjcgnbcqv.crqjfo?cBn?”

“Xbp,cnbcspcfcprso.vbetcNbchuxpcuichf.c.bhgp,cgqqtcNbcjfwbpcfcieqkbppsqo
qkcsgtcHugcboquancqkcnsj!c.qcxqucwoqrcrnfgcjfwbpcjbcfoaex?cSg’pcgnbse
ps wbosoaceqggbo,cibgesksb.cequgsobttttcFo.cgnspc fpbcjsangchbcgnbcjbfop
qkcsogeq.u soacfcobrcjbgnq.tcQobc focpnqrckeqjcgnbcipx nqvqas fvc.fgf
fvqobcnqrcgqcabgcqocgnbcgef wcqkcgnbcebfvcjfotc‘Rbcnfybckf gp,’cgnbx
pfxtcHugckf gpcfebcoqgcbybexgnsoa--fgcvbfpgcnfvkcgnbchupsobppcvsbpcso
nqrcxqucsogbeiebgcgnbj!”

“ focxqucsogbeiebgcgnbj,cgnbo?”

“Foxrfx,cqobc fo’gcnqv.cqob’pcgqoaubcrnbocqobcnfpcfckbbvsoa,cfcgfoashvb
kbbvsoa,cgnfgcqobcjsangchbcfcnbvicskcqovxttttcBn!c.qcxqucwoqrcgnb
.bgfsvpcqkcgnbc fpb?”

“Scfjcrfsgsoacgqcnbfecfhqugcgnbcifsogbet”

“Qn,cxbp!cRbvv,cnbeb’pcgnbcpgqextcBfevxcqocgnbcgnse.c.fxcfkgbecgnb
jue.be,crnbocgnbxcrbebcpgsvvc.fo.vsoacWq ncfo.cIbpgexfwqy--gnquancgnbx
f  quogb.ckqecbybexcpgbicgnbxcgqqwcfo.csgcrfpcfpcivfsocfpcfciswbpgfkk--fo
uobdib gb.ckf gcgueob.cuitcFcibfpfogc fvvb.c.upnwso,crnqcwbbipcf
.efj-pnqickf soacgnbcnqupb,chequangcgqcgnbciqvs bcqkks bcfcmbrbvvbe’p
 fpbc qogfsosoacpqjbcaqv.cbfe-esoap,cfo.cgqv.cfcvqoacesafjfeqvbtc‘Gnb
.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fx,cmupgcfkgbecbsangcq’ vq w’--jfewcgnbc.fxcfo.cgnb
nque!--‘fcmqueobxjfocnqupb-ifsogbe,cOswqvfx,crnqcnf.chbbocsocgqcpbbcjb
fvebf.xcgnfgc.fx,chequangcjbcgnspchqdcqkcaqv.cbfe-esoapcfo.cpgqobp,cfo.
fpwb.cjbcgqcasybcnsjcgrqcequhvbpckqecgnbjtcRnbocScfpwb.cnsjcrnbebcnbcaqg
gnbj,cnbcpfs.cgnfgcnbcis wb.cgnbjcuicsocgnbcpgebbgtcSc.s.coqgcfpwcnsj
foxgnsoacjqebt’cScfjcgbvvsoacxquc.upnwso’pcpgqextc‘Scafybcnsjcfcoqgb’--f
equhvbcgnfgcsp--‘kqecScgnquangcskcnbc.s.coqgcifrocsgcrsgncjbcnbcrquv.
rsgncfoqgnbetcSgcrquv.cfvvc qjbcgqcgnbcpfjbcgnsoa--nb’.cpibo.csgcqo
.esow,cpqcgnbcgnsoacnf.chbggbechbcrsgncjbtcGnbckuegnbecxqucns.bcsg
gnbclus wbecxqucrsvvckso.csg,cfo.cskcfoxgnsoacgueopcui,cskcScnbfecfox
eujquep,cS’vvcgfwbcsgcgqcgnbciqvs bt’cQkc quepb,cgnfg’pcfvvcgfef.s..vb;
nbcvsbpcvswbcfcnqepb,ckqecScwoqrcgnspc.upnwso,cnbcspcfcifroheqwbecfo.
fceb bsybecqkcpgqvbocaqq.p,cfo.cnbc.s.coqgc nbfgcOswqvfxcqugcqkcf
gnsegx-equhvbcgesowbgcsocqe.becgqcasybcsgcgqcgnbciqvs btcNbcrfpcpsjivx
fkefs.tcHugcoqcjfggbe,cgqcebgueocgqc.upnwso’pcpgqextc‘S’ybcwoqro
gnspcibfpfog,cOswqvfxc.bjbogxby,ckeqjcfc nsv.;cnbc qjbpckeqjcgnbcpfjb
ieqyso bcfo.c.spges gcqkcZfefïpw,crbcfebchqgncExfzfocjbotcFo.cgnquan
Oswqvfxcspcoqgcfc.euowfe.,cnbc.esowp,cfo.cScwobrcnbcnf.cfcmqhcsocgnfg
nqupb,cifsogsoacrqewcrsgnc.jsges,crnqc qjbpckeqjcgnbcpfjbcysvvfab,cgqqt
Fpcpqqocfpcnbcaqgcgnbcequhvbcnbc nfoab.csg,cnf.cfc quivbcqkcavfppbp,
gqqwcnspc nfoabcfo.crbogcqugtcHugcSc.s.coqgcpbbc.jsgescrsgncnsjcgnbot
Fo.cgnbcobdgc.fxcScnbfe.cgnfgcpqjbqobcnf.cjue.beb.cFvxqofcSyfoqyofcfo.
nbecpspgbe,cVszfybgfcSyfoqyof,crsgncfocfdbtcScwobrcgnbj,cfo.cSckbvg
pupis squpcfhqugcgnbcbfe-esoapcfgcqo b,ckqecScwobrcgnbcjue.beb.crqjfo
vbogcjqobxcqocivb.abptcScrbogcgqcgnbcnqupb,cfo.chbafocgqcjfwbc febkuv
solusesbpcrsgnqugcpfxsoacfcrqe.cgqcfoxqobtcKsepgcqkcfvvcScfpwb.,c“Sp
Oswqvfxcnbeb?”c.jsgescgqv.cjbcgnfgcOswqvfxcnf.caqobcqkkcqocgnbcpiebb;cnb
nf.c qjbcnqjbcfgc.fxhebfwc.euow,cpgfxb.csocgnbcnqupbcfhqugcgbocjsougbp,
fo.crbogcqugcfafsotc.jsgesc.s.o’gcpbbcnsjcfafsocfo.cspcksospnsoacgnb
mqhcfvqobtcFo.cgnbsecmqhcspcqocgnbcpfjbcpgfse fpbcfpcgnbcjue.be,cqo
gnbcpb qo.ckvqqetcRnbocScnbfe.cfvvcgnfgcSc.s.coqgcpfxcfcrqe.cgq
foxqob’--gnfg’pc.upnwso’pcgfvb--‘hugcSckquo.cqugcrnfgcSc quv.cfhqug
gnbcjue.be,cfo.crbogcnqjbckbbvsoacfpcpupis squpcfpcbybetcFo.cfgcbsang
q’ vq wcgnspcjqeosoa’--gnfgcrfpcgnbcgnse.c.fx,cxqucuo.bepgfo.--‘Scpfr
Oswqvfxc qjsoacso,coqgcpqhbe,cgnquancoqgcgqcpfxcybexc.euow--nbc quv.
uo.bepgfo.crnfgcrfpcpfs.cgqcnsjtcNbcpfgc.qrocqocgnbchbo ncfo.c.s.coqg
pibfwtcGnbebcrfpcqovxcqobcpgefoabecsocgnbchfecfo.cfcjfocScwobrcfpvbbi
qocfchbo ncfo.cquecgrqchqxptc“Nfybcxqucpbboc.jsges?”cpfs.cStc“Oq,cS
nfybo’g,”cpfs.cnbtc“Fo.cxqu’ybcoqgchbbocnbebcbsgnbe?”c“Oqgcpso bcgnbc.fx
hbkqebcxbpgbe.fx,”cpfs.cnbtc“Fo.crnbebc.s.cxqucpvbbicvfpgcosang?”
c“SocIbpws,crsgncgnbcWqvqjbopwxcjbot”c“Fo.crnbebc.s.cxqucabgcgnqpb
bfe-esoap?”cScfpwb.tc“Sckquo.cgnbjcsocgnbcpgebbg,”cfo.cgnbcrfxcnbcpfs.
sgcrfpcfchsgclubbe;cnbc.s.coqgcvqqwcfgcjbtc“.s.cxqucnbfecrnfgcnfiibob.
gnfgcybexcbybosoa,cfgcgnfgcybexcnque,cqocgnfgcpfjbcpgfse fpb?”cpfs.cSt
“Oq,”cpfs.cnb,c“Scnf.coqgcnbfe.,”cfo.cfvvcgnbcrnsvbcnbcrfpcvspgbosoa,
nspcbxbpcrbebcpgfesoacqugcqkcnspcnbf.cfo.cnbcgueob.cfpcrnsgbcfpc nfvwtcS
gqv.cnsjcfvvcfhqugcsgcfo.cnbcgqqwcnspcnfgcfo.chbafocabggsoacuitcScrfogb.
gqcwbbicnsjtc“Rfsgcfchsg,cOswqvfx,”cpfs.cS,c“rqo’gcxqucnfybcfc.esow?”
cFo.cScpsaob.cgqcgnbchqxcgqcnqv.cgnbc.qqe,cfo.cSc fjbcqugckeqjchbnso.cgnb
hfe;chugcnbc.fegb.cqugcfo.c.qrocgnbcpgebbgcgqcgnbcgueosoacfgcfceuot
Scnfybcoqgcpbbocnsjcpso btcGnbocjxc.quhgpcrbebcfgcfocbo.--sgcrfpcnsp
.qsoa,cfpc vbfecfpc quv.chbtttt’”

“Scpnquv.cgnsowcpq,”cpfs.cZqppsjqyt

“Rfsg!cNbfecgnbcbo.tcQkc quepbcgnbxcpquangcnsancfo.cvqrckqecOswqvfx;
gnbxc.bgfsob.c.upnwsocfo.cpbfe nb.cnspcnqupb;c.jsges,cgqq,crfpcfeebpgb.;
gnbcWqvqjbopwxcjbocfvpqcrbebcgueob.csops.bcqugtcFo.cgnbc.fxchbkqeb
xbpgbe.fxcgnbxcfeebpgb.cOswqvfxcsocfcgfybeocfgcgnbcbo.cqkcgnbcgqrotcNb
nf.caqobcgnbeb,cgfwbocgnbcpsvybec eqppcqkkcnspcob wcfo.cfpwb.ckqecfc.efj
kqecsgtcGnbxcafybcsgcgqcnsjtcFckbrcjsougbpcfkgberfe.pcgnbcrqjfocrbog
gqcgnbc qrpnb.,cfo.cgnequancfc ef wcsocgnbcrfvvcpnbcpfrcsocgnbcpgfhvb
f.mqsosoacnbcnf.cjf.bcfcoqqpbcqkcnspcpfpnckeqjcgnbchbfj,cpgqq.cqocf
hvq wcqkcrqq.,cfo.crfpcgexsoacgqciugcnspcob wcsocgnbcoqqpbtcGnbcrqjfo
p ebb nb.cnbecnfe.bpg;cibqivbcefocsotc‘Pqcgnfg’pcrnfgcxqucfebcuicgq!’
‘Gfwbcjb,’cnbcpfxp,c‘gqcpu n-fo.-pu ncfciqvs bcqkks be;cS’vvc qokbpp
bybexgnsoat’cRbvv,cgnbxcgqqwcnsjcgqcgnfgciqvs bcpgfgsqo--gnfgcsp
nbeb--rsgncfcpusgfhvbcbp qegtcPqcgnbxcfpwb.cnsjcgnspcfo.cgnfg,cnqrcqv.
nbcsp,c‘grbogx-grq,’cfo.cpqcqotcFgcgnbclubpgsqo,c‘Rnbocxqucrbebcrqewsoa
rsgnc.jsges,c.s.o’gcxqucpbbcfoxqobcqocgnbcpgfse fpbcfgcpu n-fo.-pu ncf
gsjb?’--foprbe:c‘Gqchbcpuebckqvwpcjfxcnfybcaqobcuicfo.c.qro,chugcSc.s.
oqgcoqgs bcgnbjt’c‘Fo.c.s.o’gcxqucnbfecfoxgnsoa,cfoxcoqspb,cfo.cpqcqo?’
‘Rbcnbfe.coqgnsoacpib sfvt’c‘Fo.c.s.cxqucnbfe,cOswqvfx,cgnfgcqocgnbcpfjb
.fxcRs.qrcPq-fo.-pqcfo.cnbecpspgbecrbebcjue.beb.cfo.ceqhhb.?’c‘S
obybecwobrcfcgnsoacfhqugcsgtcGnbcksepgcScnbfe.cqkcsgcrfpckeqjcFkfofpx
Ifyvqysg ncgnbc.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fxt’c‘Fo.crnbebc.s.cxquckso.cgnb
bfe-esoap?’c‘Sckquo.cgnbjcqocgnbcifybjbogt’c‘Rnxc.s.o’gcxqucaqcgqcrqew
rsgnc.jsgescgnbcqgnbec.fx?’c‘Hb fupbcScrfpc.esowsoat’c‘Fo.crnbebcrbeb
xquc.esowsoa?’c‘Qn,csocpu n-fo.-pu ncfcivf bt’c‘Rnxc.s.cxquceuocfrfx
keqjc.upnwso’p?’c‘Hb fupbcScrfpcfrkuvvxckesangbob.t’c‘Rnfgcrbeb
xquckesangbob.cqk?’c‘GnfgcScpnquv.chbcf  upb.t’c‘Nqrc quv.cxquchb
kesangbob.,cskcxquckbvgckebbckeqjcausvg?’cOqr,cZqppsjqy,cxqucjfxcoqg
hbvsbybcjb,cgnfgclubpgsqocrfpciugcvsgbefvvxcsocgnqpbcrqe.ptcScwoqrcsg
kqecfckf g,csgcrfpcebibfgb.cgqcjbcbdf gvx!cRnfgc.qcxqucpfxcgqcgnfg?”

“Rbvv,cfoxrfx,cgnbeb’pcgnbcbys.bo bt”

“Scfjcoqgcgfvwsoacqkcgnbcbys.bo bcoqr,cScfjcgfvwsoacfhqugcgnfgclubpgsqo,
qkcgnbsecqrocs.bfcqkcgnbjpbvybptcRbvv,cpqcgnbxcplubbzb.cfo.cplubbzb.
nsjcfo.cnbc qokbppb.:c‘Sc.s.coqgckso.csgcsocgnbcpgebbg,chugcsocgnbckvfg
rnbebcScrfpcifsogsoacrsgnc.jsgest’c‘Fo.cnqrcrfpcgnfg?’c‘Rnx,c.jsgescfo.
Scrbebcifsogsoacgnbebcfvvc.fx,cfo.crbcrbebcmupgcabggsoacebf.xcgqcaq,cfo.
.jsgescgqqwcfcheupncfo.cifsogb.cjxckf b,cfo.cnbcefocqkkcfo.cScfkgbecnsjt
Scefocfkgbecnsj,cpnqugsoacjxcnfe.bpg,cfo.cfgcgnbchqggqjcqkcgnbcpgfsepcS
efocesangcfafsopgcgnbciqegbecfo.cpqjbcabogvbjbo--fo.cnqrcjfoxcabogvbjbo
rbebcgnbebcSc.qo’gcebjbjhbetcFo.cgnbciqegbecprqebcfgcjb,cfo.cgnbcqgnbe
iqegbecprqeb,cgqq,cfo.cgnbciqegbe’pcrskbc fjbcqug,cfo.cprqebcfgcup,cgqq;
fo.cfcabogvbjfoc fjbcsogqcgnbcbogexcrsgncfcvf.x,cfo.cnbcprqebcfgcup,
gqq,ckqec.jsgescfo.cScvfxcesangcf eqppcgnbcrfxtcScaqgcnqv.cqkc.jsges’p
nfsecfo.cwoq wb.cnsjc.qrocfo.chbafochbfgsoacnsjtcFo.c.jsges,cgqq,c fuang
jbchxcgnbcnfsecfo.chbafochbfgsoacjbtcHugcrbc.s.csgcfvvcoqgckqecgbjibe
hugcsocfckesbo.vxcrfx,ckqecpiqegtcFo.cgnboc.jsgescbp fib.cfo.cefocsogq
gnbcpgebbg,cfo.cScefocfkgbecnsj;chugcSc.s.coqgc fg ncnsj,cfo.crbogchf w
gqcgnbckvfgcfvqob;cScnf.cgqc vbfecuicjxcgnsoaptcSchbafociuggsoacgnbj
gqabgnbe,cbdib gsoac.jsgescgqc qjb,cfo.cgnbebcsocgnbcifppfab,csocgnb
 qeobechxcgnbc.qqe,cScpgbiib.cqocgnbchqdtcScpfrcsgcvxsoacgnbebcrefiib.
uicsocifibetcScgqqwcqkkcgnbcifibe,cpfrcpqjbcvsggvbcnqqwp,cuo.s.cgnbj,
fo.csocgnbchqdcrbebcgnbcbfe-esoaptttt’”

“Hbnso.cgnbc.qqe?cVxsoachbnso.cgnbc.qqe?cHbnso.cgnbc.qqe?”cEfpwqvoswqy
 esb.cpu..bovx,cpgfesoacrsgncfchvfowcvqqwcqkcgbeeqecfgcEfzujsnso,cfo.cnb
pvqrvxcpfgcuicqocgnbcpqkf,cvbfosoacqocnspcnfo.t

“Xbptttcrnx?cRnfg’pcgnbcjfggbe?cRnfg’pcreqoa?”cEfzujsnso,cgqq,caqgcui
keqjcnspcpbfgt

“Oqgnsoa,”cEfpwqvoswqycfoprbeb.ckfsogvx,cgueosoacgqcgnbcrfvvtcFvvcrbeb
psvbogckqecfcrnsvbt

“Nbcjupgcnfybcrfwb.ckeqjcfc.ebfj,”cEfzujsnsocpfs.cfgcvfpg,cvqqwsoa
solusesoavxcfgcZqppsjqytcGnbcvfggbecpvsangvxcpnqqwcnspcnbf.t

“Rbvv,caqcqo,”cpfs.cZqppsjqytc“Rnfgcobdg?”

“Rnfgcobdg?cFpcpqqocfpcnbcpfrcgnbcbfe-esoap,ckqeabggsoac.jsgescfo.
bybexgnsoa,cnbcgqqwcuicnspc ficfo.cefocgqc.upnwsocfo.,cfpcrbcwoqr,caqg
fcequhvbckeqjcnsjtcNbcgqv.cfcvsbcpfxsoacnbckquo.cgnbjcsocgnbcpgebbg,cfo.
rbogcqkkc.esowsoatcNbcwbbipcebibfgsoacnspcqv.cpgqexcfhqugcgnbcjue.be:
‘Scwoqrcoqgnsoacqkcsg,cobybecnbfe.cqkcsgcgsvvcgnbc.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fxt’
‘Fo.crnxc.s.o’gcxquc qjbcgqcgnbciqvs bcgsvvcoqr?’c‘Scrfpckesangbob.t’
‘Fo.crnxc.s.cxqucgexcgqcnfoacxquepbvk?’c‘Keqjcfodsbgxt’c‘Rnfgcfodsbgx?’
‘GnfgcScpnquv.chbcf  upb.cqkcsgt’cRbvv,cgnfg’pcgnbcrnqvbcpgqextcFo.coqr
rnfgc.qcxqucpuiiqpbcgnbxc.b.u b.ckeqjcgnfg?”

“Rnx,cgnbeb’pcoqcpuiiqpsoatcGnbeb’pcfc vub,cpu ncfpcsgcsp,cfckf gtcXqu
rquv.o’gcnfybcxquecifsogbecpbgckebb?”

“Oqrcgnbx’ybcpsjivxcgfwbocnsjckqecgnbcjue.bebetcGnbxcnfybo’gcfcpnf.qrcqk
.quhgt”

“Gnfg’pcoqopbopbtcXqucfebcbd sgb.tcHugcrnfgcfhqugcgnbcbfe-esoap?cXqu
jupgcf.jsgcgnfg,cskcqocgnbcybexcpfjbc.fxcfo.cnquecbfe-esoapckeqjcgnbcqv.
rqjfo’pchqdcnfybc qjbcsogqcOswqvfx’pcnfo.p,cgnbxcjupgcnfybc qjbcgnbeb
pqjbnqrtcGnfg’pcfcaqq.c.bfvcsocpu ncfc fpbt”

“Nqrc.s.cgnbxcabgcgnbeb?cNqrc.s.cgnbxcabgcgnbeb?”c esb.cEfzujsnsot
“Nqrc focxqu,cfc.q gqe,crnqpbc.ugxcsgcspcgqcpgu.xcjfocfo.crnqcnfpcjqeb
qiiqeguosgxcgnfocfoxqobcbvpbckqecpgu.xsoacnujfocofgueb--nqrc focxquckfsv
gqcpbbcgnbc nfef gbecqkcgnbcjfocsocgnbcrnqvbcpgqex?c.qo’gcxqucpbbcfg
qo bcgnfgcgnbcfoprbepcnbcnfpcasybocsocgnbcbdfjsofgsqocfebcgnbcnqvx
geugn?cGnbxc fjbcsogqcnspcnfo.cieb spbvxcfpcnbcnfpcgqv.cup--nbcpgbiib.
qocgnbchqdcfo.cis wb.csgcuit”

“Gnbcnqvxcgeugn!cHugc.s.o’gcnbcqrocnsjpbvkcgnfgcnbcgqv.cfcvsbcfgcksepg?”

“Vspgbocgqcjb,cvspgbocfggbogsybvxtcGnbciqegbecfo.cWq ncfo.cIbpgexfwqy
fo.cgnbcqgnbeciqegbecfo.cgnbcrskbcqkcgnbcksepgciqegbecfo.cgnbcrqjfocrnq
rfpcpsggsoacsocgnbciqegbe’pcvq.abcfo.cgnbcjfocWexuwqy,crnqcnf.cmupgcaqg
qugcqkcfc fhcfgcgnfgcjsougbcfo.crbogcsocfgcgnbcbogexcrsgncfcvf.xcqocnsp
fej,cgnfgcspcbsangcqecgbocrsgobppbp,cfaebbcgnfgcOswqvfxcnf.c.jsgescqo
gnbcaequo.,crfpcvxsoacqocnsjchbfgsoacnsj,crnsvbc.jsgescnuoacqocgqcnsp
nfse,chbfgsoacnsj,cgqqtcGnbxcvfxcesangcf eqppcgnbcrfx,chvq wsoacgnb
gnqequankfebtcGnbxcrbebcprqeocfgcqocfvvcps.bpcrnsvbcgnbxc‘vswbc nsv.ebo’
(gnbcybexcrqe.pcqkcgnbcrsgobppbp)crbebckfvvsoacqybecqobcfoqgnbe,
plubfvsoa,cksangsoacfo.cvfuansoacrsgncgnbckuoosbpgckf bp,cfo.,c nfpsoa
qobcfoqgnbecvswbc nsv.ebo,cgnbxcefocsogqcgnbcpgebbgtcOqrcgfwbc febkuv
oqgbtcGnbchq.sbpcuipgfsepcrbebcrfej,cxqucuo.bepgfo.,crfejcrnbocgnbx
kquo.cgnbj!cSkcgnbx,cqecOswqvfxcfvqob,cnf.cjue.beb.cgnbjcfo.cheqwbocqibo
gnbchqdbp,cqecpsjivxcgfwbocifegcsocgnbceqhhbex,cfvvqrcjbcgqcfpwcxqucqob
lubpgsqo:c.qcgnbsecpgfgbcqkcjso.,cgnbsecplubfvpcfo.casaavbpcfo.c nsv.spn
p ukkvsoacfgcgnbcafgbcksgcsocrsgncfdbp,chvqq.pnb.,cksbo.spnc uoosoa,
eqhhbex?cGnbx’.cmupgcwsvvb.cgnbj,coqgcksybcqecgbocjsougbpchbkqeb,ckqe
gnbchq.sbpcrbebcpgsvvcrfej,cfo.cfgcqo b,cvbfysoacgnbckvfgcqibo,cwoqrsoa
gnfgcibqivbcrquv.caqcgnbebcfgcqo b,ckvsoasoacfrfxcgnbsechqqgx,cgnbx
eqvvb.cfhqugcvswbc nsv.ebo,cvfuansoacfo.cfggef gsoacabobefvcfggbogsqot
Fo.cgnbebcfebcfc.qzbocrsgobppbpcgqcprbfecgqcgnfg!”

“Qkc quepbcsgcspcpgefoab!cSg’pcsjiqppshvb,cso.bb.,chugttt”

“Oq,cheqgnbe,coqc_hugp_tcFo.cskcgnbcbfe-esoapchbsoackquo.csocOswqvfx’p
nfo.pcfgcgnbcybexc.fxcfo.cnquecqkcgnbcjue.bec qopgsgugbpcfocsjiqegfog
isb bcqkc se ujpgfogsfvcbys.bo bcfafsopgcnsj--fvgnquancgnbcbdivfofgsqo
asybochxcnsjcf  quogpckqecsg,cfo.cgnbebkqebcsgc.qbpcoqgcgbvvcpbesqupvx
fafsopgcnsj--qobcjupgcgfwbcsogqc qops.befgsqocgnbckf gpcrns ncieqybcnsj
sooq bog,cbpib sfvvxcfpcgnbxcfebckf gpcgnfgc_ fooqgchbc.bosb._tcFo.
.qcxqucpuiiqpb,ckeqjcgnbc nfef gbecqkcquecvbafvcpxpgbj,cgnfgcgnbxcrsvv
f  big,cqecgnfgcgnbxcfebcsocfciqpsgsqocgqcf  big,cgnspckf g--ebpgsoa
psjivxcqocfcipx nqvqas fvcsjiqppshsvsgx--fpcseebkugfhvbcfo.c qo vupsybvx
hebfwsoac.qrocgnbc se ujpgfogsfvcbys.bo bckqecgnbcieqpb ugsqo?cOq,cgnbx
rqo’gcf  bigcsg,cgnbxc begfsovxcrqo’g,chb fupbcgnbxckquo.cgnbcmbrbv- fpb
fo.cgnbcjfocgesb.cgqcnfoacnsjpbvk,c‘rns ncnbc quv.coqgcnfybc.qobcskcnb
nf.o’gckbvgcausvgxt’cGnfg’pcgnbciqsog,cgnfg’pcrnfgcbd sgbpcjb,cxqucjupg
uo.bepgfo.!”

“Qn,cScpbbcxqucfebcbd sgb.!cRfsgcfchsgtcSckqeaqgcgqcfpwcxqu;crnfgcieqqk
spcgnbebcgnfgcgnbchqdc fjbckeqjcgnbcqv.crqjfo?”

“Gnfg’pchbbocieqyb.,”cpfs.cEfzujsnsocrsgncfiifebogcebvu gfo b,ckeqrosoat
“Wq nceb qaospb.cgnbcmbrbv- fpbcfo.cafybcgnbcofjbcqkcgnbcqrobe,crnq
ieqyb.c qo vupsybvxcgnfgcsgcrfpcnspt”

“Gnfg’pchf.tcOqrcfoqgnbeciqsogtc.s.cfoxqobcpbbcOswqvfxcfgcgnbcgsjb
gnfgcWq ncfo.cIbpgexfwqycrbebcaqsoacuipgfsepcfgcksepg,cfo.cspcgnbebcoq
bys.bo bcfhqugcgnfg?”

“Oqhq.xc.s.cpbbcnsj,”cEfzujsnsocfoprbeb.crsgncybdfgsqotc“Gnfg’pcgnb
rqepgcqkcsgtcBybocWq ncfo.cIbpgexfwqyc.s.coqgcoqgs bcgnbjcqocgnbsecrfx
uipgfsep,cgnquan,cso.bb.,cgnbsecbys.bo bc quv.coqgcnfybchbbocrqegncju nt
Gnbxcpfs.cgnbxcpfrcgnbckvfgcrfpcqibo,cfo.cgnfgcgnbebcjupgchbcrqewcaqsoa
qocsocsg,chugcgnbxcgqqwcoqcpib sfvcoqgs bcfo.c quv.coqgcebjbjhbecrnbgnbe
gnbebcf gufvvxcrbebcjbocfgcrqewcsocsgt”

“Nj!tttcPqcgnbcqovxcbys.bo bckqecgnbc.bkbo bcspcgnfgcgnbxcrbebchbfgsoa
qobcfoqgnbecfo.cvfuansoatcGnfgc qopgsgugbpcfcpgeqoaciebpujigsqo,chugttt
Nqrc.qcxqucbdivfsocgnbckf gpcxquepbvk?”

“Nqrc.qcScbdivfsocgnbj?cRnfgcspcgnbebcgqcbdivfso?cSg’pc vbfetcFgcfox
efgb,cgnbc.seb gsqocsocrns ncbdivfofgsqocspcgqchbcpquangcspc vbfe,cfo.
gnbcmbrbv- fpbciqsogpcgqcsgtcGnbcebfvcjue.bebec.eqiib.cgnqpbcbfe-esoapt
Gnbcjue.bebecrfpcuipgfsep,cvq wb.cso,crnbocWq ncfo.cIbpgexfwqycwoq wb.
fgcgnbc.qqetcWq n,cvswbcfocfpp,c.s.coqgcpgfxcfgcgnbc.qqe;cpqcgnb
jue.bebeciqiib.cqugcfo.cefoc.qro,cgqq;ckqecnbcnf.coqcqgnbecrfxcqk
bp fibtcNbcns.ckeqjcWq n,cIbpgexfwqycfo.cgnbciqegbecsocgnbckvfgcrnbo
Oswqvfxcfo.c.jsgescnf.cmupgceuocqugcqkcsgtcNbcpgqiib.cgnbebcrnsvbcgnb
iqegbecfo.cqgnbepcrbebcaqsoacuipgfsep,crfsgb.cgsvvcgnbxcrbebcqugcqk
nbfesoa,cfo.cgnbocrbogc fvjvxc.qropgfsepcfgcgnbcybexcjsougbcrnboc.jsges
fo.cOswqvfxcefocqugcsogqcgnbcpgebbgcfo.cgnbebcrfpcoqcqobcsocgnbcbogex;
iqppshvxcnbcrfpcpbbo,chugcoqgcoqgs b.tcGnbebcfebcvqgpcqkcibqivbcaqsoa
socfo.cqugtcNbcjupgcnfybc.eqiib.cgnbcbfe-esoapcqugcqkcnspciq wbgcrnbo
nbcpgqq.chbnso.cgnbc.qqe,cfo.c.s.coqgcoqgs bcnbc.eqiib.cgnbj,chb fupbcnb
nf.cqgnbecgnsoapcgqcgnsowcqktcGnbcmbrbv- fpbcspcfc qo vupsybcieqqkcgnfg
nbc.s.cpgfo.cgnbebttttcGnfg’pcnqrcScbdivfsocsgt”

“Gqqc vbybe!cOq,cjxchqx,cxqu’ebcgqqc vbybetcGnfgchbfgpcbybexgnsoat”

“Hug,crnx,crnx?”

“Rnx,chb fupbcbybexgnsoacksgpcgqqcrbvvtttcsg’pcgqqcjbvq.efjfgs t”

“F-f n!”cEfzujsnsocrfpcbd vfsjsoa,chugcfgcgnfgcjqjbogcgnbc.qqecqibob.
fo.cfcibepqofabc fjbcsocrnqcrfpcfcpgefoabecgqcfvvciebpbogt



 NFIGBEcY

Gnspcrfpcfcabogvbjfocoqcvqoabecxquoa,cqkcfcpgskkcfo.ciqegvxcfiibfefo b,
fo.cfc fugsqupcfo.cpquec quogbofo btcNbchbafochxcpgqiisoacpnqegcsocgnb
.qqerfx,cpgfesoacfhqugcnsjcrsgncqkkbopsybcfo.cuo.spauspb.cfpgqospnjbog,
fpcgnquancfpwsoacnsjpbvkcrnfgcpqegcqkcivf bcnbcnf.c qjbcgqt
Jspgeupgkuvvxcfo.crsgncfocfkkb gfgsqocqkchbsoacfvfejb.cfo.cfvjqpg
fkkeqogb.,cnbcp foob.cEfpwqvoswqy’pcvqrcfo.cofeeqrc“ fhsot”cRsgncgnb
pfjbcfjfzbjbogcnbcpgfeb.cfgcEfpwqvoswqy,crnqcvfxcuo.ebppb.,c.spnbybvvb.,
uorfpnb.,cqocnspcjspbefhvbc.segxcpqkf,cvqqwsoacksdb.vxcfgcnsjtcGnbocrsgn
gnbcpfjbc.bvshbefgsqocnbcp eugsospb.cgnbcuo qugn,cuowbjigcksauebcfo.
uopnfybockf bcqkcEfzujsnso,crnqcvqqwb.cnsjchqv.vxcfo.csolusesoavxcsocgnb
kf bcrsgnqugcespsoackeqjcnspcpbfgtcFc qopgefsob.cpsvbo bcvfpgb.ckqecf
 quivbcqkcjsougbp,cfo.cgnbo,cfpcjsangchbcbdib gb.,cpqjbcp bob-pnskgsoa
gqqwcivf btcEbkvb gsoa,cieqhfhvxckeqjc begfsockfsevxcuojspgfwfhvbcpsaop,
gnfgcnbcrquv.cabgcoqgnsoacsocgnspc“ fhso”chxcfggbjigsoacgqcqybefrbcgnbj,
gnbcabogvbjfocpqkgbob.cpqjbrnfg,cfo.c sysvvx,cgnquancrsgncpqjbcpbybesgx,
bjinfpspsoacbybexcpxvvfhvbcqkcnspclubpgsqo,cf..ebppb.cZqppsjqy:

“Eq.sqocEqjfoqysg ncEfpwqvoswqy,cfcpgu.bog,cqeckqejbevxcfcpgu.bog?”

Zqppsjqycjf.bcfcpvsangcjqybjbog,cfo.crquv.cnfybcfoprbeb.,cnf.coqg
Efzujsnsocfogs sifgb.cnsjt

“Nbebcnbcspcvxsoacqocgnbcpqkf!cRnfgc.qcxqucrfog?”

Gnspckfjsvsfec“rnfgc.qcxqucrfog”cpbbjb.cgqc ugcgnbcaequo.ckeqjcgnb
kbbgcqkcgnbciqjiqupcabogvbjfotcNbcrfpcgueosoacgqcEfzujsnso,chugc nb wb.
nsjpbvkcsocgsjbcfo.cgueob.cgqcZqppsjqycfafsot

“GnspcspcEfpwqvoswqy,”cjujhvb.cZqppsjqy,coq..soacgqrfe.pcnsjtcGnbocnb
afybcfcieqvqoab.cxfro,cqibosoacnspcjqugncfpcrs.bcfpciqppshvbtcGnbocnb
vfzsvxciugcnspcnfo.csogqcnspcrfspg qfg-iq wbg,ciuvvb.cqugcfcnuabcaqv.
rfg ncsocfcequo.cnuogbe’pc fpb,cqibob.csg,cvqqwb.cfgcsgcfo.cfpcpvqrvx
fo.cvfzsvxcieq bb.b.cgqciugcsgchf wt

Efpwqvoswqycnsjpbvkcvfxcrsgnqugcpibfwsoa,cqocnspchf w,cafzsoa
ibepspgbogvx,cgnquancrsgnqugcuo.bepgfo.soa,cfgcgnbcpgefoabetcOqrcgnfg
nspckf bcrfpcgueob.cfrfxckeqjcgnbcpgefoabckvqrbecqocgnbcifibe,csg
rfpcbdgebjbvxcifvbcfo.crqebcfcvqqwcqkcfoauspn,cfpcgnquancnbcnf.cmupg
uo.beaqobcfocfaqospsoacqibefgsqocqecmupgchbbocgfwbockeqjcgnbcef wtcHug
gnbcobr- qjbecaef.ufvvxchbafocgqcfequpbcnspcfggbogsqo,cgnbocnspcrqo.be,
gnbocpupis sqocfo.cbybocfvfejtcRnbocZqppsjqycpfs.c“GnspcspcEfpwqvoswqy”
cnbcmujib.cuiclus wvx,cpfgcqocgnbcpqkfcfo.crsgncfocfvjqpgc.bksfog,chug
rbfwcfo.chebfwsoa,cyqs bcfegs uvfgb.:

“Xbp,cScfjcEfpwqvoswqy!cRnfgc.qcxqucrfog?”

Gnbcyspsgqecp eugsospb.cnsjcfo.cieqoquo b.csjiebppsybvx:

“IxqgecIbgeqysg ncVuznsotcSchbvsbybcScnfybcebfpqocgqcnqibcgnfgcjxcofjb
spcoqgcrnqvvxcuowoqrocgqcxqu?”

HugcEfpwqvoswqy,crnqcnf.cbdib gb.cpqjbgnsoaclusgbc.skkbebog,cafzb.
hvfowvxcfo.c.ebfjsvxcfgcnsj,cjfwsoacoqcebivx,cfpcgnquancnbcnbfe.cgnb
ofjbcqkcIxqgecIbgeqysg nckqecgnbcksepgcgsjbt

“Spcsgciqppshvbcgnfgcxquc focuicgqcgnbciebpbogcnfybceb bsyb.coq
sokqejfgsqo?”cfpwb.cIxqgecIbgeqysg n,cpqjbrnfgc.sp qo begb.t

SocebivxcEfpwqvoswqycpfowcvfoaus.vxchf wcqocgnbcisvvqr,ciugcnspcnfo.p
hbnso.cnspcnbf.cfo.cafzb.cfgcgnbc bsvsoatcFcvqqwcqkc.spjfxc fjbcsogq
Vuznso’pckf btcZqppsjqycfo.cEfzujsnsocpgfeb.cfgcnsjcjqebcsoluspsgsybvx
gnfocbybe,cfo.cfgcvfpgcnbcpnqrb.cuojspgfwfhvbcpsaopcqkcbjhfeefppjbogt

“Scnf.ciebpujb.cfo.c fv uvfgb.,”cnbckfvgbeb.,c“gnfgcfcvbggbeciqpgb.cjqeb
gnfocgboc.fxp,cskcoqgcfckqegosangcfaqttt”

“Scpfx,crnxcfebcxqucpgfo.soacsocgnbc.qqerfx?”cEfzujsnsocsogbeeuigb.
pu..bovxtc“Skcxqu’ybcpqjbgnsoacgqcpfx,cpsgc.qrotcOfpgfpxfcfo.cxqucfebcpq
 eqr.b.tcOfpgfpxf,cjfwbceqqjtcNbeb’pcfc nfse,cgnebf.cxquecrfxcso!”

Nbcjqyb.cnspc nfsechf wckeqjcgnbcgfhvb,cjf.bcfcvsggvbcpif bchbgrbbocgnb
gfhvbcfo.cnspcwobbp,cfo.crfsgb.csocfcefgnbec efjib.ciqpsgsqockqecgnb
yspsgqecgqc“gnebf.cnspcrfxcsot”cGnbcjsougbcrfpcpqc nqpbocgnfgcsgcrfp
sjiqppshvbcgqcebkupb,cfo.cgnbcyspsgqecplubbzb.cnspcrfxcgnequan,cnueexsoa
fo.cpgujhvsoatcEbf nsoacgnbc nfse,cnbcpfgc.qro,cvqqwsoacpupis squpvxcfg
Efzujsnsot

“Oqcobb.cgqchbcobeyqup,”cgnbcvfggbechvuegb.cqugtc“Eq.xfcnfpchbbocsvvckqe
gnbcvfpgcksybc.fxpcfo.c.bvsesqupckqecgnebb,chugcoqrcnbcspceb qybesoacfo.
nfpcaqgcfocfiibgsgbtcGnspcspcnspc.q gqe,crnqcnfpcmupgcnf.cfcvqqwcfgcnsjt
Scfjcfc qjef.bcqkcEq.xf’p,cvswbcnsj,ckqejbevxcfcpgu.bog,cfo.coqrcScfj
ouepsoacnsj;cpqc.qo’gcxqucgfwbcfoxcoqgs bcqkcup,chugcaqcqocrsgncxque
hupsobppt”

“GnfowcxqutcHugcpnfvvcScoqgc.spguehcgnbcsoyfvs.chxcjxciebpbo bcfo.
 qoybepfgsqo?”cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncfpwb.cqkcZqppsjqyt

“O-oq,”cjujhvb.cZqppsjqy;c“xqucjfxcfjupbcnsjt”cNbcxfrob.cfafsot

“Nbcnfpchbboc qop squpcfcvqoacgsjb,cpso bcgnbcjqeosoa,”crbogcqo
Efzujsnso,crnqpbckfjsvsfesgxcpbbjb.cpqcju ncvswbcuofkkb gb.caqq.-ofgueb
gnfgcIxqgecIbgeqysg nchbafocgqchbcjqebc nbbekuv,cifegvx,cibenfip,
hb fupbcgnspcpnfhhxcfo.csjiu.bogcibepqocnf.csogeq.u b.cnsjpbvkcfpcf
pgu.bogt

“Xquecjfjjf,”chbafocVuznsot

“Nj!”cEfzujsnsoc vbfeb.cnspcgneqfgcvqu.vxtcVuznsocvqqwb.cfgcnsj
solusesoavxt

“Gnfg’pcfvvcesang,caqcqot”

Vuznsocpneuaab.cnspcpnquv.bept

“Xquecjfjjfcnf.c qjjbo b.cfcvbggbecgqcxqucrnsvbcScrfpcpqmqueosoacso
nbecobsanhquenqq.tcQocjxcfeesyfvcnbebcSciueiqpbvxcfvvqrb.cfckbrc.fxpcgq
bvfipbchbkqebc qjsoacgqcpbbcxqu,csocqe.becgnfgcScjsangchbckuvvx
fppueb.cgnfgcxqucrbebcsockuvvciqppbppsqocqkcgnbcgs.soap;chugcoqr,cgqcjx
fpgqospnjbogttt”

“Scwoqr,cScwoqr!”cEfpwqvoswqyc esb.cpu..bovxcrsgncsjifgsbogcybdfgsqot
“Pqcxqucfebcgnbc_ksfo é_?cScwoqr,cfo.cgnfg’pcboquan!”

Gnbebcrfpcoqc.quhgcfhqugcIxqgecIbgeqysg n’pchbsoacqkkbo.b.cgnspcgsjb,
hugcnbcpfs.coqgnsoatcNbcjf.bcfcysqvbogcbkkqegcgqcuo.bepgfo.crnfgcsgcfvv
jbfogtcGnbebcrfpcfcjqjbog’pcpsvbo bt

JbfornsvbcEfpwqvoswqy,crnqcnf.cgueob.cfcvsggvbcgqrfe.pcnsjcrnbocnb
foprbeb.,chbafocpu..bovxcpgfesoacfgcnsjcfafsocrsgncjfewb.c uesqpsgx,cfp
gnquancnbcnf.coqgcnf.cfcaqq.cvqqwcfgcnsjcxbg,cqecfpcgnquancpqjbgnsoa
obrcnf.cpgeu wcnsj;cnbceqpbckeqjcnspcisvvqrcqociueiqpbcgqcpgfebcfg
nsjtcGnbebc begfsovxcrfpcpqjbgnsoacib uvsfecsocIxqgecIbgeqysg n’pcrnqvb
fiibfefo b,cpqjbgnsoacrns ncpbbjb.cgqcmupgskxcgnbcgsgvbcqkc“ksfo é”cpq
uo bebjqosqupvxcfiivsb.cgqcnsjtcSocgnbcksepgcivf b,csgcrfpcbys.bog,ckfe
gqqcju ncpqcso.bb.,cgnfgcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncnf.cjf.bcbfabecupbcqkcnspckbr
.fxpcsocgnbc fisgfvcgqcabgcnsjpbvkcuicfo.cesacnsjpbvkcqugcsocbdib gfgsqo
qkcnspchbgeqgnb.--fcibekb gvxcsooq bogcfo.cibejsppshvbcieq bb.soa,
so.bb.tcBybocnspcqro,cibenfipcgqqc qjivf bog,c qop squpobppcqkcgnb
faebbfhvbcsjieqybjbogcsocnspcfiibfefo bcjsangcnfybchbbockqeasybocsocpu n
 se ujpgfo bp,cpbbsoacgnfgcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncnf.cgfwbocuicgnbceôvbcqk
ksfo étcFvvcnspc vqgnbpcrbebckebpnckeqjcgnbcgfsvqe’pcfo.crbebcfvv
esang,cbd bigckqechbsoacgqqcobrcfo.cgqqc.spgso gvxcfiieqiesfgbtcBybo
gnbcpgxvspncobrcequo.cnfgcnf.cgnbcpfjbcpsaosks fo btcIxqgecIbgeqysg n
gebfgb.csgcgqqcebpib gkuvvxcfo.cnbv.csgcgqqc febkuvvxcsocnspcnfo.ptcGnb
bdluspsgbcifsecqkcvfybo.becavqybp,cebfvcVquyfso,cgqv.cgnbcpfjbcgfvb,
skcqovxckeqjcgnbckf gcqkcnspcoqgcrbfesoacgnbj,chugc feexsoacgnbjcso
nspcnfo.ckqecpnqrtcVsangcfo.cxqugnkuvc qvquepcieb.qjsofgb.csocIxqge
Ibgeqysg n’pcfggsebtcNbcrqebcfc nfejsoacpujjbecmf wbgcqkcfckfrocpnf.b,
vsangcgnsocgequpbep,cfcrfspg qfgcqkcgnbcpfjb,cobrcfo.cksobcvsobo,cf
 efyfgcqkcgnbcvsangbpgc fjhes crsgncisowcpgesibpcqocsg,cfo.cgnbchbpg
qkcsgcrfp,cgnspcfvvcpusgb.cIxqgecIbgeqysg ntcNspcybexckebpncfo.cbybo
nfo.pqjbckf bcvqqwb.cxquoabecgnfocnspckqegx-ksybcxbfepcfgcfvvcgsjbpt
Nspc.few,cjuggqo- nqicrnspwbepcjf.bcfocfaebbfhvbcpbggsoacqochqgncps.bp,
aeqrsoacgns wvxcuiqocnspcpnsosoa,c vbfo-pnfyboc nsotcBybocnspcnfse,
gqu nb.cnbebcfo.cgnbebcrsgncaebx,cgnquancsgcnf.chbboc qjhb.cfo.c uevb.
fgcfcnfse.ebppbe’p,c.s.coqgcasybcnsjcfcpguis.cfiibfefo b,cfpc uevb.cnfse
upufvvxc.qbp,chxcsobysgfhvxcpuaabpgsoacfcAbejfocqocnspcrb..soa-.fxt
Skcgnbebcebfvvxcrfpcpqjbgnsoacuoivbfpsoacfo.cebiuvpsybcsocnspcefgnbe
aqq.-vqqwsoacfo.csjiqpsoac quogbofo b,csgcrfpc.ubcgqclusgbcqgnbe
 fupbptcFkgbecp foosoacJetcVuznsocuo bebjqosqupvx,cEfpwqvoswqycpjsvb.
jfvsaofogvx,cpfowchf wcqocgnbcisvvqrcfo.cpgfeb.cfgcgnbc bsvsoacfp
hbkqebt

HugcJetcVuznsocnfe.bob.cnspcnbfegcfo.cpbbjb.cgqc.bgbejsobcgqcgfwbcoq
oqgs bcqkcgnbsecq..sgsbpt

“Sckbbvcgnbcaebfgbpgcebaebgcfgckso.soacxqucsocgnspcpsgufgsqo,”cnbchbafo,
fafsochebfwsoacgnbcpsvbo bcrsgncfocbkkqegtc“SkcScnf.chbbocfrfebcqkcxque
svvobppcScpnquv.cnfybc qjbcbfevsbetcHugcxqucwoqrcrnfgchupsobppcsptcS
nfyb,cgqq,cfcybexcsjiqegfogcvbafvcfkkfsecsocgnbcPbofgb,coqgcgqcjbogsqo
qgnbeciebq  uifgsqopcrns ncxqucjfxcrbvvc qomb guebtcScfjcbdib gsoacxque
jfjjfcfo.cpspgbecfoxcjsougbt”

Efpwqvoswqycjf.bcfcjqybjbogcfo.cpbbjb.cfhqugcgqcpibfw;cnspckf bcpnqrb.
pqjbcbd sgbjbogtcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncifupb.,crfsgb.,chugcfpcoqgnsoa
kqvvqrb.,cnbcrbogcqo:

“tttcFoxcjsougbtcScnfybckquo.cfcvq.asoackqecgnbjcqocgnbsecfeesyfvt”

“Rnbeb?”cfpwb.cEfpwqvoswqycrbfwvxt

“Ybexcobfecnbeb,csocHfwfvbxby’pcnqupbt”

“Gnfg’pcsocYqpwebpbopwx,”ciugcsocEfzujsnsotc“Gnbebcfebcgrqcpgqebxpcqk
eqqjp,cvbgchxcfcjbe nfogc fvvb.cXupnso;cS’ybchbbocgnbebt”

“Xbp,ceqqjpttt”

“Fc.spaupgsoacivf b--ksvgnx,cpgsowsoacfo.,crnfg’pcjqeb,cqkc.quhgkuv
 nfef gbetcGnsoapcnfybcnfiibob.cgnbeb,cfo.cgnbebcfebcfvvcpqegpcqkclubbe
ibqivbcvsysoacgnbebtcFo.cScrbogcgnbebcfhqugcfcp fo.fvqupchupsobpptcSg’p
 nbfi,cgnquanttt”

“Sc quv.coqg,cqkc quepb,ckso.cqugcpqcju ncfhqugcsg,ckqecScfjcfcpgefoabe
socIbgbephueacjxpbvk,”cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncebivsb.cnukksvxtc“Nqrbybe,cgnb
grqceqqjpcfebcbd bb.soavxc vbfo,cfo.cfpcsgcspckqecpqcpnqegcfcgsjbttt
Scnfybcfvebf.xcgfwbocfcibejfobog,cgnfgcsp,cqueckuguebckvfg,”cnbcpfs.,
f..ebppsoacEfpwqvoswqy,c“fo.cScfjcnfysoacsgc.qobcuitcFo.cjbfornsvbcScfj
jxpbvkc efjib.ckqeceqqjcsocfcvq.asoacrsgncjxckesbo.cFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg n
Vbhbzsfgoswqy,csocgnbckvfgcqkcJf.fjbcVsiibyb npbv;csgcrfpcnbcrnqcgqv.cjb
qkcHfwfvbxby’pcnqupb,cgqqttt”

“Vbhbzsfgoswqy?”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqycpvqrvx,cfpcskceb fvvsoacpqjbgnsoat

“Xbp,cFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg ncVbhbzsfgoswqy,cfc vbewcsocgnbcJsospgextc.qcxqu
woqrcnsj?”

“Xbptttcoq,”cEfpwqvoswqycfoprbeb.t

“Bd upbcjb,cSckfo sb.cpqckeqjcxquecsolusextcScrfpcqo bcnspcaufe.sfotttt
Fcybexcos bcxquoacjfocfo.cf.yfo b.tcScvswbcgqcjbbgcxquoacibqivb:cqob
vbfeopcobrcgnsoapckeqjcgnbjt”cVuznsocvqqwb.cequo.cnqibkuvvxcfgcgnbjcfvvt

“Nqrc.qcxqucjbfo?”cfpwb.cEfzujsnsot

“Socgnbcjqpgcpbesqupcfo.cbppbogsfvcjfggbep,”cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncebivsb.,
fpcgnquanc.bvsangb.cfgcgnbclubpgsqotc“Xqucpbb,csg’pcgbocxbfepcpso bcS
yspsgb.cIbgbephueatcFvvcgnbcoqybvgsbp,cebkqejp,cs.bfpcnfybcebf nb.cupcso
gnbcieqyso bp,chugcgqcpbbcsgcfvvcjqebc vbfevxcqobcjupgchbcsocIbgbephueat
Fo.csg’pcjxcoqgsqocgnfgcxqucqhpbeybcfo.cvbfeocjqpgchxcrfg nsoacgnb
xquoabecabobefgsqotcFo.cSc qokbppcScfjc.bvsangb.ttt”

“Fgcrnfg?”

“Xqueclubpgsqocspcfcrs.bcqobtcScjfxchbcjspgfwbo,chugcSckfo xcSckso.
 vbfebecysbrp,cjqeb,cpqcgqcpfx,c esgs spj,cjqebcief gs fvsgxttt”

“Gnfg’pcgeub,”cZqppsjqycvbgc.eqit

“Oqopbopb!cGnbeb’pcoqcief gs fvsgxt”cEfzujsnsockvbrcfgcnsjt
“Ief gs fvsgxcspcfc.skks uvgcgnsoacgqckso.;csgc.qbpcoqgc.eqic.qrockeqj
nbfybotcFo.ckqecgnbcvfpgcgrqcnuo.eb.cxbfepcrbcnfybchbboc.syqe b.ckeqj
fvvcief gs fvcvskbtcS.bfp,cskcxqucvswb,cfebckbejbogsoa,”cnbcpfs.cgq
IxqgecIbgeqysg n,c“fo.c.bpsebckqecaqq.cbdspgp,cgnquancsg’pcsocfc nsv.spn
kqej,cfo.cnqobpgxcxqucjfxckso.,cfvgnquancgnbebcfebc eqr.pcqkchesafo.pt
Foxrfx,cgnbeb’pcoqcief gs fvsgxtcIef gs fvsgxcaqbpcrbvvcpnq.t”

“Sc.qo’gcfaebbcrsgncxqu,”cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncebivsb.,crsgncbys.bog
bomqxjbogtc“Qkc quepb,cibqivbc.qcabgc feesb.cfrfxcfo.cjfwbcjspgfwbp,
hugcqobcjupgcnfybcso.uvabo b;cgnqpbcjspgfwbpcfebcjbebvxcbys.bo bcqk
bognupsfpjckqecgnbc fupbcfo.cqkcfhoqejfvcbdgbeofvcboyseqojbogtcSkcvsggvb
nfpchbboc.qob,cgnbcgsjbcnfpchbbochugcpnqeg;cqkcjbfopcScrsvvcoqgcpibfwt
Sg’pcjxcibepqofvcysbr,cskcxquc febcgqcwoqr,cgnfgcpqjbgnsoacnfpchbbo
f  qjivspnb.cfvebf.xtcObrcyfvufhvbcs.bfp,cobrcyfvufhvbcrqewpcfeb
 se uvfgsoacsocgnbcivf bcqkcquecqv.c.ebfjxcfo.ceqjfogs cfugnqept
Vsgbefguebcspcgfwsoacfcjfguebeckqej,cjfoxcsomuesqupciebmu.s bpcnfybchbbo
eqqgb.cuicfo.cgueob.csogqces.s uvbttttcSocfcrqe.,crbcnfybc ugcquepbvybp
qkkcseebyq fhvxckeqjcgnbcifpg,cfo.cgnfg,cgqcjxcgnsowsoa,cspcfcaebfg
gnsoattt”

“Nb’pcvbfeogcsgchxcnbfegcgqcpnqrcqkk!”cEfpwqvoswqycieqoquo b.cpu..bovxt

“Rnfg?”cfpwb.cIxqgecIbgeqysg n,coqgc fg nsoacnspcrqe.p;chugcnbceb bsyb.
oqcebivxt

“Gnfg’pcfvvcgeub,”cZqppsjqycnfpgbob.cgqcsogbeiqpbt

“Spo’gcsgcpq?”cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncrbogcqo,cavfo soacfkkfhvxcfgcZqppsjqyt
“Xqucjupgcf.jsg,”cnbcrbogcqo,cf..ebppsoacEfzujsnsocrsgncfcpnf.bcqk
gesujincfo.cpuibe svsqupobpp--nbcfvjqpgcf..b.c“xquoacjfo”--“gnfgcgnbeb
spcfocf.yfo b,cqe,cfpcgnbxcpfxcoqr,cieqaebppcsocgnbcofjbcqkcp sbo bcfo.
b qoqjs cgeugnttt”

“Fc qjjqoivf bt”

“Oq,coqgcfc qjjqoivf b!cNsgnbegq,ckqecsopgfo b,cskcScrbebcgqv.,c‘vqyb
gnxcobsanhque,’crnfgc fjbcqkcsg?”cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncrbogcqo,cibenfipcrsgn
bd bppsybcnfpgbtc“Sgc fjbcgqcjxcgbfesoacjxc qfgcsocnfvkcgqcpnfebcrsgncjx
obsanhquecfo.crbchqgncrbebcvbkgcnfvkcofwb.tcFpcfcEuppsfocieqybehcnfp
sg,c‘ fg ncpbybefvcnfebpcfo.cxqucrqo’gc fg ncqobt’cP sbo bcoqrcgbvvp
up,cvqybcxquepbvkchbkqebcfvvcjbo,ckqecbybexgnsoacsocgnbcrqev.cebpgpcqo
pbvk-sogbebpgtcXqucvqybcxquepbvkcfo.cjfofabcxquecqrocfkkfsepcieqibevx
fo.cxquec qfgcebjfsopcrnqvbtcB qoqjs cgeugncf..pcgnfgcgnbchbggbeciesyfgb
fkkfsepcfebcqeafospb.csocpq sbgx--gnbcjqebcrnqvbc qfgp,cpqcgqcpfx--gnb
ksejbecfebcsgpckquo.fgsqopcfo.cgnbchbggbecspcgnbc qjjqocrbvkfeb
qeafospb.cgqqtcGnbebkqeb,csocf lusesoacrbfvgncpqvbvxcfo.cbd vupsybvxckqe
jxpbvk,cScfjcf lusesoa,cpqcgqcpibfw,ckqecfvv,cfo.cnbvisoacgqchesoacgq
ifppcjxcobsanhque’pcabggsoacfcvsggvbcjqebcgnfocfcgqeoc qfg;cfo.cgnfgcoqg
keqjciesyfgb,cibepqofvcvshbefvsgx,chugcfpcfc qopblubo bcqkcgnbcabobefv
f.yfo btcGnbcs.bfcspcpsjivb,chugcuonfiisvxcsgcnfpchbbocfcvqoacgsjb
ebf nsoacup,chbsoacnso.beb.chxcs.bfvspjcfo.cpbogsjbogfvsgxtcFo.cxbgcsg
rquv.cpbbjcgqcrfogcybexcvsggvbcrsgcgqcibe bsybcsgttt”

“Bd upbcjb,cS’ybcybexcvsggvbcrsgcjxpbvk,”cEfzujsnsoc ugcsocpnfeivx,
“fo.cpqcvbgcupc.eqicsgtcSchbafocgnspc.sp uppsqocrsgncfocqhmb g,chugcS’yb
aeqrocpqcps wc.uesoacgnbcvfpgcgnebbcxbfepcqkcgnspc nfggbesoacgqcfjupb
qobpbvk,cqkcgnspcso bppfogckvqrcqkc qjjqoivf bp,cfvrfxpcgnbcpfjb,cgnfg,
hxcMqyb,cSchvupncbybocrnbocqgnbecibqivbcgfvwcvswbcgnfgtcXqucfebcsocf
nueex,coqc.quhg,cgqcbdnshsgcxquecf lusebjbogp;cfo.cSc.qo’gchvfjbcxqu,
gnfg’pclusgbcife.qofhvbtcScqovxcrfogb.cgqckso.cqugcrnfgcpqegcqkcjfocxqu
feb,ckqecpqcjfoxcuop euiuvqupcibqivbcnfybcaqgcnqv.cqkcgnbcieqaebppsyb
 fupbcqkcvfgbcfo.cnfybcpqc.spgqegb.csocgnbsecqrocsogbebpgpcbybexgnsoa
gnbxcgqu nb.,cgnfgcgnbcrnqvbc fupbcnfpchbboc.efaab.csocgnbcjsebtcGnfg’p
boquan!”

“Bd upbcjb,cpse,”cpfs.cVuznso,cfkkeqogb.,cfo.cpibfwsoacrsgncbd bppsyb
.saosgxtc“.qcxqucjbfocgqcpuaabpgcpqcuo bebjqosqupvxcgnfgcScgqqttt”

“Qn,cjxc.bfecpsetttcnqrc quv.cS?tttc qjb,cgnfg’pcboquan,”cEfzujsnso
 qo vu.b.,cfo.cnbcgueob.cfheuigvxcgqcZqppsjqycgqc qogsoubcgnbseciebysqup
 qoybepfgsqot

IxqgecIbgeqysg ncnf.cgnbcaqq.cpbopbcgqcf  bigcgnbc.spfyqrfvtcNbcjf.bcui
nspcjso.cgqcgfwbcvbfybcsocfoqgnbecjsougbcqecgrqt

“Scgeupgcquecf lufsogfo b,”cnbcpfs.,cf..ebppsoacEfpwqvoswqy,c“jfx,cuiqo
xqueceb qybexcfo.csocysbrcqkcgnbc se ujpgfo bpcqkcrns ncxqucfebcfrfeb,
hb qjbc vqpbetttcFhqybcfvv,cScnqibckqecxquecebgueocgqcnbfvgnttt”

Efpwqvoswqyc.s.coqgcbybocgueocnspcnbf.tcIxqgecIbgeqysg nchbafocabggsoa
uickeqjcnspc nfset

“Qobcqkcnbec upgqjbepcjupgcnfybcwsvvb.cnbe,”cZqppsjqyc.b vfeb.
iqpsgsybvxt

“Oqgcfc.quhgcqkcsg,”cebivsb.cEfzujsnsotc“Iqeksexc.qbpo’gcasybcnsp
qisosqo,chugcspcbdfjsosoacfvvcrnqcnfybcvbkgcivb.abpcrsgncnbecgnbebt”

“Bdfjsosoacgnbj?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.cfvqu.t

“XbptcRnfgcgnbo?”

“Oqgnsoat”

“Nqrc.qbpcnbcabgcnqv.cqkcgnbj?”cfpwb.cZqppsjqyt

“Wq ncnfpcasybocgnbcofjbpcqkcpqjbcqkcgnbj,cqgnbecofjbpcfebcqocgnb
refiibepcqkcgnbcivb.abpcfo.cpqjbcnfybc qjbckqerfe.cqkcgnbjpbvybpt”

“Sgcjupgcnfybchbbocfc uoosoacfo.cief gspb.ceukksfo!cGnbchqv.obppcqkcsg!
Gnbc qqvobpp!”

“Gnfg’pcmupgcrnfgcsgcrfpo’g!”csogbeiqpb.cEfzujsnsotc“Gnfg’pcrnfgcgneqrp
xqucfvvcqkkcgnbcp bogtcHugcScjfsogfsocgnfgcnbcspcoqgc uoosoa,coqg
ief gspb.,cfo.cieqhfhvxcgnspcrfpcnspcksepgc esjb!cGnbcpuiiqpsgsqocgnfg
sgcrfpcfc fv uvfgb.c esjbcfo.cfc uoosoac esjsofvc.qbpo’gcrqewtcPuiiqpb
nsjcgqcnfybchbbocsobdibesbo b.,cfo.csg’pc vbfecgnfgcsgcrfpcqovxcfc nfo b
gnfgcpfyb.cnsj--fo.c nfo bcjfxc.qcfoxgnsoatcRnx,cnbc.s.coqgckqebpbb
qhpgf vbp,cibenfip!cFo.cnqrc.s.cnbcpbgcgqcrqew?cNbcgqqwcmbrbvpcrqegn
gbocqecgrbogxcequhvbp,cpgukksoacnspciq wbgpcrsgncgnbj,cefopf wb.cgnb
qv.crqjfo’pcgeuowp,cnbecefap--fo.cgnbxckquo.ckskgbbocnuo.eb.cequhvbp,
hbps.bpcoqgbp,csocfchqdcsocgnbcgqic.efrbecqkcgnbc nbpg!cNbc.s.coqgcwoqr
nqrcgqceqh;cnbc quv.cqovxcjue.betcSgcrfpcnspcksepgc esjb,cScfppuebcxqu,
nspcksepgc esjb;cnbcvqpgcnspcnbf.tcFo.cnbcaqgcqkkcjqebchxcvu wcgnfocaqq.
 quopbv!”

“Xqucfebcgfvwsoacqkcgnbcjue.becqkcgnbcqv.cifroheqwbe,cSchbvsbyb?”cIxqge
Ibgeqysg nciugcso,cf..ebppsoacZqppsjqytcNbcrfpcpgfo.soa,cnfgcfo.cavqybp
socnfo.,chugchbkqebc.bifegsoacnbckbvgc.spiqpb.cgqcgneqrcqkkcfckbrcjqeb
sogbvvb gufvcinefpbptcNbcrfpcbys.bogvxcfodsqupcgqcjfwbcfckfyquefhvb
sjiebppsqocfo.cnspcyfosgxcqybe fjbcnspcieu.bo bt

“XbptcXqu’ybcnbfe.cqkcsg?”

“Qn,cxbp,chbsoacsocgnbcobsanhquenqq.t”

“.qcxqucwoqrcgnbc.bgfsvp?”

“Sc fo’gcpfxcgnfg;chugcfoqgnbec se ujpgfo bcsogbebpgpcjbcsocgnb
 fpb--gnbcrnqvbclubpgsqo,cpqcgqcpfxtcOqgcgqcpibfwcqkcgnbckf gcgnfgc esjb
nfpchbbocaebfgvxcqocgnbcso ebfpbcfjqoacgnbcvqrbec vfppbpc.uesoacgnbcvfpg
ksybcxbfep,coqgcgqcpibfwcqkcgnbc fpbpcqkceqhhbexcfo.cfepqocbybexrnbeb,
rnfgcpgeswbpcjbcfpcgnbcpgefoabpgcgnsoacspcgnfgcsocgnbcnsanbec vfppbp,
gqq,c esjbcspcso ebfpsoacieqiqegsqofgbvxtcSocqobcivf bcqobcnbfepcqkcf
pgu.bog’pceqhhsoacgnbcjfsvcqocgnbcnsanceqf.;csocfoqgnbecivf bcibqivbcqk
aqq.cpq sfvciqpsgsqockqeabckfvpbchfowoqgbp;csocJqp qrcqkcvfgbcfcrnqvb
afoacnfpchbboc figueb.crnqcupb.cgqckqeabcvqggbexcgs wbgp,cfo.cqobcqk
gnbcesoavbf.bepcrfpcfcvb guebecsocuosybepfvcnspgqex;cgnbocquecpb ebgfex
fheqf.crfpcjue.beb.ckeqjcpqjbcqhp uebcjqgsybcqkcafsottttcFo.cskcgnspcqv.
rqjfo,cgnbcifroheqwbe,cnfpchbbocjue.beb.chxcpqjbqobcqkcfcnsanbec vfpp
socpq sbgx--kqecibfpfogpc.qo’gcifrocaqv.cgesowbgp--nqrcfebcrbcgqcbdivfso
gnspc.bjqefvspfgsqocqkcgnbc sysvspb.cifegcqkcquecpq sbgx?”

“Gnbebcfebcjfoxcb qoqjs c nfoabp,”ciugcsocZqppsjqyt

“Nqrcfebcrbcgqcbdivfsocsg?”cEfzujsnsoc fuangcnsjcuitc“Sgcjsangchb
bdivfsob.chxcquecsoybgbefgbcsjief gs fvsgxt”

“Nqrc.qcxqucjbfo?”

“Rnfgcfoprbecnf.cxquecvb guebecsocJqp qrcgqcjfwbcgqcgnbclubpgsqocrnxcnb
rfpckqeasoacoqgbp?c‘Bybexhq.xcspcabggsoaces ncqobcrfxcqecfoqgnbe,cpqcS
rfogcgqcjfwbcnfpgbcgqcabgces ncgqqt’cSc.qo’gcebjbjhbecgnbcbdf gcrqe.p,
hugcgnbcuipnqgcrfpcgnfgcnbcrfogpcjqobxckqecoqgnsoa,crsgnqugcrfsgsoacqe
rqewsoa!cRb’ybcaeqrocupb.cgqcnfysoacbybexgnsoacebf.x-jf.b,cgqcrfvwsoa
qoc eug nbp,cgqcnfysoacqueckqq.c nbrb.ckqecuptcGnbocgnbcaebfgcnque
pgeu w,[*]cfo.cbybexcjfocpnqrb.cnsjpbvkcsocnspcgeubc qvquept”

ccccc[*]cGnbcbjfo sifgsqocqkcgnbcpbekpcsoc1861cspcjbfogt
ccccc--GEFOPVFGQE’PcOQGBt

“Hugcjqefvsgx?cFo.cpqcgqcpibfw,cieso sivbpttt”

“Hugcrnxc.qcxqucrqeexcfhqugcsg?”cEfpwqvoswqycsogbeiqpb.cpu..bovxtc“Sg’p
socf  qe.fo bcrsgncxquecgnbqex!”

“Socf  qe.fo bcrsgncjxcgnbqex?”

“Rnx,c feexcqugcvqas fvvxcgnbcgnbqexcxqucrbebcf.yq fgsoacmupgcoqr,cfo.
sgckqvvqrpcgnfgcibqivbcjfxchbcwsvvb.ttt”

“Uiqocjxcrqe.!”c esb.cVuznsot

“Oq,cgnfg’pcoqgcpq,”ciugcsocZqppsjqyt

Efpwqvoswqycvfxcrsgncfcrnsgbckf bcfo.cgrsg nsoacuiibecvsi,chebfgnsoa
ifsokuvvxt

“Gnbeb’pcfcjbfpuebcsocfvvcgnsoap,”cVuznsocrbogcqocpuibe svsqupvxt
“B qoqjs cs.bfpcfebcoqgcfocso sgbjbogcgqcjue.be,cfo.cqobcnfpchugcgq
puiiqpbttt”

“Fo.cspcsgcgeub,”cEfpwqvoswqycsogbeiqpb.cqo bcjqebcpu..bovx,cfafsocsocf
yqs bclusybesoacrsgnckuexcfo.c.bvsangcsocsopuvgsoacnsj,c“spcsgcgeubcgnfg
xqucgqv.cxquec_ksfo éb_tttcrsgnsocfocnquecqkcnbecf  bigfo b,cgnfgcrnfg
ivbfpb.cxqucjqpgtttcrfpcgnfgcpnbcrfpcfchbaafetttchb fupbcsgcrfpchbggbe
gqcefspbcfcrskbckeqjciqybegx,cpqcgnfgcxqucjfxcnfybc qjivbgbc qogeqvcqybe
nbe,cfo.cebieqf ncnbecrsgncxquechbsoacnbechbobkf gqe?”

“Uiqocjxcrqe.,”cVuznsoc esb.crefgnkuvvxcfo.cseesgfhvx,c esjpqocrsgn
 qokupsqo,c“gqc.spgqegcjxcrqe.pcsocgnspcrfx!cBd upbcjb,cfvvqrcjbcgq
fppuebcxqucgnfgcgnbcebiqegcrns ncnfpcebf nb.cxqu,cqecefgnbe,cvbgcjbcpfx,
nfpchbboc qoybxb.cgqcxqu,cnfpcoqckquo.fgsqocsocgeugn,cfo.cStttcpupib g
rnqtttcsocfcrqe.tttcgnspcfeeqrtttcsocfcrqe.,cxquecjfjjftttcPnbcpbbjb.
gqcjbcsocqgnbecgnsoap,crsgncfvvcnbecbd bvvbogclufvsgsbp,cqkcfcpqjbrnfg
nsan-kvqrocfo.ceqjfogs crfxcqkcgnsowsoattttcHugcScrfpcfcgnqupfo.cjsvbp
keqjcpuiiqpsoacgnfgcpnbcrquv.cjspuo.bepgfo.cfo.cjspebiebpbogcgnsoapcso
pqckfo skuvcfcrfxttttcFo.cso.bb.tttcso.bb.ttt”

“Scgbvvcxqucrnfg,”c esb.cEfpwqvoswqy,cefspsoacnsjpbvkcqocnspcisvvqrcfo.
ksdsoacnspcisbe soa,cavsggbesoacbxbpcuiqocnsj,c“Scgbvvcxqucrnfgt”

“Rnfg?”cVuznsocpgqq.cpgsvv,crfsgsoacrsgncfc.bksfogcfo.cqkkbo.b.ckf bt
Psvbo bcvfpgb.ckqecpqjbcpb qo.pt

“Rnx,cskcbybecfafsotttcxquc.febcgqcjbogsqocfcpsoavbcrqe.tttcfhqugcjx
jqgnbetttcScpnfvvcpbo.cxquckvxsoac.qropgfsep!”

“Rnfg’pcgnbcjfggbecrsgncxqu?”c esb.cEfzujsnsot

“Pqcgnfg’pcnqrcsgcsp?”cVuznsocgueob.cifvbcfo.chsgcnspcvsitc“Vbgcjbcgbvv
xqu,cpse,”cnbchbafoc.bvshbefgbvx,c.qsoacnspcugjqpgcgqcebpgefsocnsjpbvk
hugchebfgnsoacnfe.,c“fgcgnbcksepgcjqjbogcScpfrcxqucxqucrbebcsvv-.spiqpb.
gqcjb,chugcScebjfsob.cnbebcqociueiqpbcgqckso.cqugcjqebtcSc quv.ckqeasyb
fcaebfgc.bfvcsocfcps wcjfocfo.cfc qoob gsqo,chugcxqutttcobybecfkgbe
gnspttt”

“Scfjcoqgcsvv,”c esb.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“Pqcju ncgnbcrqepbttt”

“Aqcgqcnbvv!”

HugcVuznsocrfpcfvebf.xcvbfysoacrsgnqugcksospnsoacnspcpibb n,cplubbzsoa
hbgrbbocgnbcgfhvbcfo.cgnbc nfse;cEfzujsnsocaqgcuicgnspcgsjbcgqcvbgcnsj
ifpptcRsgnqugcavfo soacfgcfoxqob,cfo.coqgcbybocoq..soacgqcZqppsjqy,crnq
nf.ckqecpqjbcgsjbchbbocjfwsoacpsaopcgqcnsjcgqcvbgcgnbcps wcjfocfvqob,
nbcrbogcqug,cvskgsoacnspcnfgcgqcgnbcvbybvcqkcnspcpnquv.bepcgqcfyqs.
 eupnsoacsgcfpcnbcpgqqib.cgqcaqcqugcqkcgnbc.qqetcFo.cbybocgnbc ueybcqk
nspcpisobcrfpcbdiebppsybcqkcgnbcnqeeshvbcsopuvgcnbcnf.ceb bsyb.t

“Nqrc quv.cxqu--nqrc quv.cxqu!”cEfzujsnsocpfs.,cpnfwsoacnspcnbf.cso
ibeivbdsgxt

“Vbgcjbcfvqob--vbgcjbcfvqobcfvvcqkcxqu!”cEfpwqvoswqyc esb.csocfckebozxt
“Rsvvcxqucbybecvbfybcqkkcgqejbogsoacjb?cScfjcoqgcfkefs.cqkcxqu!cScfj
oqgcfkefs.cqkcfoxqob,cfoxqobcoqr!cAbgcfrfxckeqjcjb!cScrfogcgqchbcfvqob,
fvqob,cfvqob!”

“ qjbcfvqoa,”cpfs.cZqppsjqy,coq..soacgqcEfzujsnsot

“Hugcrbc fo’gcvbfybcnsjcvswbcgnsp!”

“ qjbcfvqoa,”cZqppsjqycebibfgb.csopspgbogvx,cfo.cnbcrbogcqugtcEfzujsnso
gnquangcfcjsougbcfo.cefocgqcqybegfwbcnsjt

“Sgcjsangchbcrqepbcoqgcgqcqhbxcnsj,”cpfs.cZqppsjqycqocgnbcpgfseptc“Nb
jupgo’gchbcseesgfgb.t”

“Rnfg’pcgnbcjfggbecrsgncnsj?”

“Skcqovxcnbc quv.cabgcpqjbckfyquefhvbcpnq w,cgnfg’pcrnfgcrquv.c.qcsg!cFg
ksepgcnbcrfpchbggbettttcXqucwoqrcnbcnfpcaqgcpqjbgnsoacqocnspcjso.!cPqjb
ksdb.cs.bfcrbsansoacqocnsjttttcScfjcybexcju ncfkefs.cpq;cnbcjupgcnfyb!”

“Ibenfipcsg’pcgnfgcabogvbjfo,cIxqgecIbgeqysg ntcKeqjcnspc qoybepfgsqo
Scafgnbecnbcspcaqsoacgqcjfeexcnspcpspgbe,cfo.cgnfgcnbcnf.ceb bsyb.cf
vbggbecfhqugcsgcmupgchbkqebcnspcsvvobpptttt”

“Xbp,c qokquo.cgnbcjfo!cnbcjfxcnfybcuipbgcgnbc fpbcfvgqabgnbetcHugcnfyb
xqucoqgs b.,cnbcgfwbpcoqcsogbebpgcsocfoxgnsoa,cnbc.qbpcoqgcebpiqo.cgq
foxgnsoacbd bigcqobciqsogcqocrns ncnbcpbbjpcbd sgb.--gnfg’pcgnbcjue.be?”

“Xbp,cxbp,”cEfzujsnsocfaebb.,c“Scoqgs b.cgnfg,cgqqtcNbcspcsogbebpgb.,
kesangbob.tcSgcafybcnsjcfcpnq wcqocgnbc.fxcnbcrfpcsvvcsocgnbciqvs b
qkks b;cnbckfsogb.t”

“Gbvvcjbcjqebcfhqugcgnfgcgnspcbybosoacfo.cS’vvcgbvvcxqucpqjbgnsoa
fkgberfe.ptcNbcsogbebpgpcjbcybexcju n!cSocnfvkcfocnquecS’vvcaqcfo.cpbb
nsjcfafsottttcGnbeb’vvchbcoqcsokvfjjfgsqocgnquant”

“Gnfowp!cFo.cS’vvcrfsgcrsgncIfpnbowfcjbfogsjbcfo.crsvvcwbbicrfg ncqocnsj
gnequancOfpgfpxftttt”

Efpwqvoswqy,cvbkgcfvqob,cvqqwb.crsgncsjifgsbo bcfo.cjspbexcfgcOfpgfpxf,
hugcpnbcpgsvvcvsoabeb.t

“Rqo’gcxqucnfybcpqjbcgbfcoqr?”cpnbcfpwb.t

“Vfgbe!cScfjcpvbbix!cVbfybcjbt”

Nbcgueob.cfheuigvxcgqcgnbcrfvv;cOfpgfpxfcrbogcqugt



 NFIGBEcYS

Hugcfpcpqqocfpcpnbcrbogcqug,cnbcaqgcui,cvfg nb.cgnbc.qqe,cuo.s.cgnb
ife bvcrns ncEfzujsnsocnf.chequangcsocgnfgcbybosoacfo.cnf.cgsb.cuicfafso
fo.chbafoc.ebppsoatcPgefoabcgqcpfx,cnbcpbbjb.csjjb.sfgbvxcgqcnfybchb qjb
ibekb gvxc fvj;coqgcfcgef bcqkcnspceb bogc.bvsesujcoqecqkcgnbcifos 
kbfecgnfgcnf.cnfuogb.cnsjcqkcvfgbtcSgcrfpcgnbcksepgcjqjbogcqkcfcpgefoab
pu..boc fvjtcNspcjqybjbogpcrbebcieb spbcfo.c.bksosgb;cfcksejciueiqpbcrfp
bys.bogcsocgnbjtc“Gq-.fx,cgq-.fx,”cnbcjuggbeb.cgqcnsjpbvktcNbcuo.bepgqq.
gnfgcnbcrfpcpgsvvcrbfw,chugcnspcsogbopbcpisesgufvc qo bogefgsqocafybcnsj
pgeboagncfo.cpbvk- qoks.bo btcNbcnqib.,cjqebqybe,cgnfgcnbcrquv.coqg
kfvvc.qrocsocgnbcpgebbgtcRnbocnbcnf.c.ebppb.csocbogsebvxcobrc vqgnbp,cnb
vqqwb.cfgcgnbcjqobxcvxsoacqocgnbcgfhvb,cfo.cfkgbecfcjqjbog’pcgnquang
iugcsgcsocnspciq wbgtcSgcrfpcgrbogx-ksybcequhvbptcNbcgqqwcfvpqcfvvcgnb
 qiibec nfoabckeqjcgnbcgbocequhvbpcpibogchxcEfzujsnsocqocgnbc vqgnbpt
Gnbocnbcpqkgvxcuovfg nb.cgnbc.qqe,crbogcqug,cpvsiib.c.qropgfsepcfo.
avfo b.csocfgcgnbcqibocwsg nboc.qqetcOfpgfpxfcrfpcpgfo.soacrsgncnbechf w
gqcnsj,chvqrsoacuicgnbcvfo.vf.x’pcpfjqyfetcPnbcnbfe.coqgnsoatcRnqcrquv.
nfybc.ebfjb.cqkcnspcaqsoacqug,cso.bb.?cFcjsougbcvfgbecnbcrfpcsocgnb
pgebbgt

Sgcrfpcobfevxcbsangcq’ vq w,cgnbcpuocrfpcpbggsoatcSgcrfpcfpcpgskvsoacfp
hbkqeb,chugcnbcbfabevxc.efowcsocgnbcpgsowsoa,c.upgxcgqrocfsetcNspcnbf.
kbvgcefgnbec.szzx;cfcpqegcqkcpfyfabcbobeaxcavbfjb.cpu..bovxcsocnsp
kbybespncbxbpcfo.cnspcrfpgb.,cifvbcfo.cxbvvqrckf btcNbc.s.coqgcwoqrcfo.
.s.coqgcgnsowcrnbebcnbcrfpcaqsoa,cnbcnf.cqobcgnquangcqovx:c“gnfgcfvv
_gnsp_cjupgchbcbo.b.cgq-.fx,cqo bckqecfvv,csjjb.sfgbvx;cgnfgcnbcrquv.
oqgcebgueocnqjbcrsgnqugcsg,chb fupbcnbc_rquv.coqgcaqcqocvsysoacvswb
gnfg_t”cNqr,crsgncrnfgcgqcjfwbcfocbo.?cNbcnf.coqgcfocs.bfcfhqugcsg,
nbc.s.coqgcbybocrfogcgqcgnsowcqkcsgtcNbc.eqybcfrfxcgnquang;cgnquang
gqegueb.cnsjtcFvvcnbcwobr,cfvvcnbckbvgcrfpcgnfgcbybexgnsoacjupgchb
 nfoab.c“qobcrfxcqecfoqgnbe,”cnbcebibfgb.crsgnc.bpibefgbcfo.csjjqyfhvb
pbvk- qoks.bo bcfo.c.bgbejsofgsqot

Keqjcqv.cnfhsgcnbcgqqwcnspcupufvcrfvwcsocgnbc.seb gsqocqkcgnbcNfx
JfewbgtcFc.few-nfseb.cxquoacjfocrsgncfchfeebvcqeafocrfpcpgfo.soacso
gnbceqf.csockeqogcqkcfcvsggvbcabobefvcpnqicfo.crfpcaeso.soacqugcfcybex
pbogsjbogfvcpqoatcNbcrfpcf  qjifoxsoacfcasevcqkckskgbbo,crnqcpgqq.
qocgnbcifybjbogcsockeqogcqkcnsjtcPnbcrfpc.ebppb.cuicsocfc esoqvsob,cf
jfogvbcfo.cfcpgefrcnfgcrsgncfckvfjb- qvqueb.ckbfgnbecsocsg,cfvvcybex
qv.cfo.cpnfhhxtcSocfcpgeqoacfo.cefgnbecfaebbfhvbcyqs b,c ef wb.cfo.
 qfepbob.chxcpgebbgcpsoasoa,cpnbcpfoacsocnqibcqkcabggsoacfc qiibeckeqj
gnbcpnqitcEfpwqvoswqycmqsob.cgrqcqecgnebbcvspgbobep,cgqqwcqugcfcksyb
 qib wcisb bcfo.ciugcsgcsocgnbcasev’pcnfo.tcPnbcheqwbcqkkcfheuigvxcqocf
pbogsjbogfvcnsancoqgb,cpnqugb.cpnfeivxcgqcgnbcqeafocaeso.bec“ qjbcqo,”
cfo.chqgncjqyb.cqocgqcgnbcobdgcpnqit

“.qcxqucvswbcpgebbgcjups ?”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,cf..ebppsoacfcjs..vb-fab.
jfocpgfo.soacs.vxchxcnsjtcGnbcjfocvqqwb.cfgcnsj,cpgfegvb.cfo.crqo.besoat

“Scvqybcgqcnbfecpsoasoacgqcfcpgebbgcqeafo,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,cfo.cnsp
jfoobecpbbjb.cpgefoabvxcqugcqkcwbbisoacrsgncgnbcpuhmb g--“Scvswbcsg
qoc qv.,c.few,c.fjicfugujocbybosoap--gnbxcjupgchbc.fji--rnbocfvvcgnb
ifppbep-hxcnfybcifvbcaebbo,cps wvxckf bp,cqechbggbecpgsvvcrnbocrbg
poqrcspckfvvsoacpgefsangc.qro,crnbocgnbeb’pcoqcrso.--xqucwoqrcrnfgcS
jbfo?--fo.cgnbcpgebbgcvfjipcpnsobcgnequancsgttt”

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrttttcBd upbcjbttt”cjuggbeb.cgnbcpgefoabe,ckesangbob.chxcgnb
lubpgsqocfo.cEfpwqvoswqy’pcpgefoabcjfoobe,cfo.cnbc eqppb.cqybecgqcgnb
qgnbecps.bcqkcgnbcpgebbgt

Efpwqvoswqycrfvwb.cpgefsangcqocfo.c fjbcqugcfgcgnbc qeobecqkcgnbcNfx
Jfewbg,crnbebcgnbcnu wpgbecfo.cnspcrskbcnf.cgfvwb.crsgncVszfybgf;chug
gnbxcrbebcoqgcgnbebcoqrtcEb qaospsoacgnbcivf b,cnbcpgqiib.,cvqqwb.cequo.
fo.cf..ebppb.cfcxquoackbvvqrcsocfceb.cpnsegcrnqcpgqq.cafisoachbkqebcf
 qeoc nfo.vbe’pcpnqit

“Spo’gcgnbebcfcjfocrnqcwbbipcfchqqgncrsgncnspcrskbcfgcgnspc qeobe?”

“Fvvcpqegpcqkcibqivbcwbbichqqgnpcnbeb,”cfoprbeb.cgnbcxquoacjfo,cavfo soa
puibe svsqupvxcfgcEfpwqvoswqyt

“Rnfg’pcnspcofjb?”

“Rnfgcnbcrfpc nespgbob.t”

“Febo’gcxqucfcZfefïpwxcjfo,cgqq?cRns ncieqyso b?”

Gnbcxquoacjfocvqqwb.cfgcEfpwqvoswqycfafsot

“Sg’pcoqgcfcieqyso b,cxquecbd bvvbo x,chugcfc.spges gtcAef squpvx
kqeasybcjb,cxquecbd bvvbo x!”

“Spcgnfgcfcgfybeocfgcgnbcgqicgnbeb?”

“Xbp,csg’pcfocbfgsoa-nqupbcfo.cgnbeb’pcfchsvvsfe.-eqqjcfo.cxqu’vvckso.
ieso bppbpcgnbebcgqqttttcVf-vf!”

Efpwqvoswqyc eqppb.cgnbcplufebtcSocgnfgc qeobecgnbebcrfpcfc.bopbc eqr.
qkcibfpfogptcNbciupnb.cnspcrfxcsogqcgnbcgns wbpgcifegcqkcsg,cvqqwsoa
fgcgnbckf bptcNbckbvgcfocuof  quogfhvbcso vsofgsqocgqcbogbecsogq
 qoybepfgsqocrsgncibqivbtcHugcgnbcibfpfogpcgqqwcoqcoqgs bcqkcnsj;cgnbx
rbebcfvvcpnqugsoacsocaequipcgqabgnbetcNbcpgqq.cfo.cgnquangcfcvsggvbcfo.
gqqwcfcgueosoacgqcgnbcesangcsocgnbc.seb gsqocqkcYt

Nbcnf.cqkgboc eqppb.cgnfgcvsggvbcpgebbgcrns ncgueopcfgcfocfoavb,cvbf.soa
keqjcgnbcjfewbg-ivf bcgqcPf.qyxcPgebbgtcQkcvfgbcnbcnf.cqkgbockbvgc.efro
gqcrfo.becfhqugcgnspc.spges g,crnbocnbckbvgc.biebppb.,cgnfgcnbcjsang
kbbvcjqebcpqt

Oqrcnbcrfvwb.cfvqoa,cgnsowsoacqkcoqgnsoatcFgcgnfgciqsogcgnbebcspcfcaebfg
hvq wcqkchusv.soap,cbogsebvxcvbgcqugcsoc.efjcpnqipcfo.cbfgsoa-nqupbp;
rqjbocrbebc qogsoufvvxceuoosoacsocfo.cqug,chfeb-nbf.b.cfo.csocgnbse
so.qqec vqgnbptcNbebcfo.cgnbebcgnbxcafgnbeb.csocaequip,cqocgnbcifybjbog,
bpib sfvvxcfhqugcgnbcbogefo bpcgqcyfesqupckbpgsybcbpgfhvspnjbogpcso
gnbcvqrbecpgqebxptcKeqjcqobcqkcgnbpbcfcvqu.c.so,cpquo.pcqkcpsoasoa,cgnb
gsowvsoacqkcfcausgfecfo.cpnqugpcqkcjbeesjbog,ckvqfgb.csogqcgnbcpgebbgt
Fc eqr.cqkcrqjbocrbebcgneqoasoacequo.cgnbc.qqe;cpqjbcrbebcpsggsoacqocgnb
pgbip,cqgnbepcqocgnbcifybjbog,cqgnbepcrbebcpgfo.soacgfvwsoatcFc.euowbo
pqv.sbe,cpjqwsoacfc safebggb,crfpcrfvwsoacobfecgnbjcsocgnbceqf.,
prbfesoa;cnbcpbbjb.cgqchbcgexsoacgqckso.cnspcrfxcpqjbrnbeb,chugcnf.
kqeaqggbocrnbebtcQobchbaafecrfpclufeebvvsoacrsgncfoqgnbe,cfo.cfcjfoc.bf.
.euowcrfpcvxsoacesangcf eqppcgnbceqf.tcEfpwqvoswqycmqsob.cgnbcgneqoacqk
rqjbo,crnqcrbebcgfvwsoacsocnupwxcyqs bptcGnbxcrbebchfeb-nbf.b.cfo.crqeb
 qggqoc.ebppbpcfo.caqfgpwsocpnqbptcGnbebcrbebcrqjbocqkckqegxcfo.cpqjb
oqgcjqebcgnfocpbybogbbo;cfvjqpgcfvvcnf.chvf wbob.cbxbpt

Nbckbvgcpgefoabvxcfggef gb.chxcgnbcpsoasoacfo.cfvvcgnbcoqspbcfo.
uieqfecsocgnbcpfvqqochbvqrttttcpqjbqobc quv.chbcnbfe.crsgnsoc.fo soa
kefogs fvvx,cjfewsoacgsjbcrsgncnspcnbbvpcgqcgnbcpquo.pcqkcgnbcausgfe
fo.cqkcfcgnsockfvpbggqcyqs bcpsoasoacfcmfuogxcfsetcNbcvspgbob.csogbogvx,
avqqjsvxcfo.c.ebfjsvx,chbo.soac.qrocfgcgnbcbogefo bcfo.cibbisoa
soluspsgsybvxcsockeqjcgnbcifybjbogt

cc“Qn,cjxcnfo.pqjbcpqv.sbe
ccc.qo’gchbfgcjbckqecoqgnsoa,”

gesvvb.cgnbcgnsocyqs bcqkcgnbcpsoabetcEfpwqvoswqyckbvgcfcaebfgc.bpsebcgq
jfwbcqugcrnfgcnbcrfpcpsoasoa,cfpcgnquancbybexgnsoac.bibo.b.cqocgnfgt

“PnfvvcScaqcso?”cnbcgnquangtc“GnbxcfebcvfuansoatcKeqjc.esowtcPnfvvcScabg
.euow?”

“Rqo’gcxquc qjbcso?”cqobcqkcgnbcrqjbocfpwb.cnsjtcNbecyqs bcrfp
pgsvvcjups fvcfo.cvbppcgns wcgnfocgnbcqgnbep,cpnbcrfpcxquoacfo.coqg
ebiuvpsyb--gnbcqovxcqobcqkcgnbcaequit

“Rnx,cpnb’pciebggx,”cnbcpfs.,c.efrsoacnsjpbvkcuicfo.cvqqwsoacfgcnbet

Pnbcpjsvb.,cju ncivbfpb.cfgcgnbc qjivsjbogt

“Xqu’ebcybexcos bcvqqwsoacxquepbvk,”cpnbcpfs.t

“Spo’gcnbcgnsocgnquan!”cqhpbeyb.cfoqgnbecrqjfocsocfc.bbichfpptc“Nfybcxqu
mupgc qjbcqugcqkcfcnqpisgfv?”

“Gnbx’ebcfvvcabobefvp’c.fuangbep,csgcpbbjp,chugcgnbxcnfybcfvvcpouh
oqpbp,”csogbeiqpb.cfcgsipxcibfpfogcrsgncfcpvxcpjsvbcqocnspckf b,crbfesoa
fcvqqpbc qfgtc“Pbbcnqrcmqvvxcgnbxcfebt”

“Aqcfvqoacrsgncxqu!”

“S’vvcaq,cprbbgsb!”

Fo.cnbc.fegb.c.qrocsogqcgnbcpfvqqochbvqrtcEfpwqvoswqycjqyb.cqot

“Scpfx,cpse,”cgnbcasevcpnqugb.cfkgbecnsjt

“Rnfgcspcsg?”

Pnbcnbpsgfgb.t

“S’vvcfvrfxpchbcivbfpb.cgqcpibo.cfocnquecrsgncxqu,cwso.cabogvbjfo,chug
oqrcSckbbvcpnxtcAsybcjbcpsdc qib wpckqecfc.esow,cgnbeb’pcfcos bcxquoa
jfo!”

Efpwqvoswqycafybcnbecrnfgc fjbcksepg--kskgbboc qib wpt

“Fn,crnfgcfcaqq.-ofgueb.cabogvbjfo!”

“Rnfg’pcxquecofjb?”

“Fpwckqec.u vs.ft”

“Rbvv,cgnfg’pcgqqcju n,”cqobcqkcgnbcrqjbocqhpbeyb.,cpnfwsoacnbecnbf.
fgc.u vs.ftc“Sc.qo’gcwoqrcnqrcxquc focfpwcvswbcgnfgtcSchbvsbybcScpnquv.
.eqicrsgncpnfjbtttt”

Efpwqvoswqycvqqwb.c uesqupvxcfgcgnbcpibfwbetcPnbcrfpcfciq w-jfewb.crbo n
qkcgnsegx,c qybeb.crsgncheuspbp,crsgncnbecuiibecvsicprqvvbotcPnbcjf.b
nbec esgs spjclusbgvxcfo.cbfeobpgvxtc“Rnbebcspcsg,”cgnquangcEfpwqvoswqyt
“RnbebcspcsgcS’ybcebf.cgnfgcpqjbqobc qo.bjob.cgqc.bfgncpfxpcqecgnsowp,
focnquechbkqebcnspc.bfgn,cgnfgcskcnbcnf.cgqcvsybcqocpqjbcnsanceq w,
qocpu ncfcofeeqrcvb.abcgnfgcnb’.cqovxceqqjcgqcpgfo.,cfo.cgnbcq bfo,
bybevfpgsoac.fewobpp,cbybevfpgsoacpqvsgu.b,cbybevfpgsoacgbjibpgcfequo.
nsj,cskcnbcnf.cgqcebjfsocpgfo.soacqocfcplufebcxfe.cqkcpif bcfvvcnsp
vskb,cfcgnqupfo.cxbfep,cbgbeosgx,csgcrbebchbggbecgqcvsybcpqcgnfocgqc.sb
fgcqo b!cQovxcgqcvsyb,cgqcvsybcfo.cvsyb!cVskb,crnfgbybecsgcjfxchb!ttt
Nqrcgeubcsgcsp!cAqq.cAq.,cnqrcgeub!cJfocspcfcysvbc ebfgueb!tttcFo.cysvb
spcnbcrnqc fvvpcnsjcysvbckqecgnfg,”cnbcf..b.cfcjqjbogcvfgbet

Nbcrbogcsogqcfoqgnbecpgebbgtc“Hfn,cgnbcIfvfspc.bc espgfv!cEfzujsnso
rfpcmupgcgfvwsoacqkcgnbcIfvfspc.bc espgfvtcHugcrnfgcqocbfegncrfpcsg
Scrfogb.?cXbp,cgnbcobrpifibepttttcZqppsjqycpfs.cnb’.cebf.csgcsocgnb
ifibeptcNfybcxqucgnbcifibep?”cnbcfpwb.,caqsoacsogqcfcybexcpif squpcfo.
iqpsgsybvxc vbfocebpgfuefog,c qopspgsoacqkcpbybefvceqqjp,crns ncrbeb,
nqrbybe,cefgnbecbjigxtcGrqcqecgnebbcibqivbcrbebc.esowsoacgbf,cfo.csocf
eqqjckuegnbecfrfxcrbebcpsggsoackquecjboc.esowsoac nfjifaobtcEfpwqvoswqy
kfo sb.cgnfgcZfjbgqycrfpcqobcqkcgnbj,chugcnbc quv.coqgchbcpuebcfgcgnfg
.spgfo btc“Rnfgcskcsgcsp?”cnbcgnquangt

“Rsvvcxqucnfybcyq.wf?”cfpwb.cgnbcrfsgbet

“Asybcjbcpqjbcgbfcfo.chesoacjbcgnbcifibep,cgnbcqv.cqobpckqecgnbcvfpg
ksybc.fxp,cfo.cS’vvcasybcxqucpqjbgnsoat”

“Xbp,cpse,cnbeb’pcgq-.fx’ptcOqcyq.wf?”

Gnbcqv.cobrpifibepcfo.cgnbcgbfcrbebchequangtcEfpwqvoswqycpfgc.qrocfo.
hbafocgqcvqqwcgnequancgnbjt

“Qn,c.fjotttcgnbpbcfebcgnbcsgbjpcqkcsogbvvsabo btcFocf  s.bogcqocf
pgfse fpb,cpiqogfobqupc qjhupgsqocqkcfcpnqiwbbibeckeqjcfv qnqv,cfckseb
socIbpwstttcfcksebcsocgnbcIbgbephueaclufegbetttcfoqgnbecksebcsocgnb
Ibgbephueaclufegbetttcfo.cfoqgnbecksebcsocgnbcIbgbephueaclufegbetttt
Fn,cnbebcsgcsp!”cNbckquo.cfgcvfpgcrnfgcnbcrfpcpbbwsoacfo.chbafocgq
ebf.csgtcGnbcvsobpc.fo b.chbkqebcnspcbxbp,chugcnbcebf.csgcfvvcfo.chbafo
bfabevxcpbbwsoacvfgbecf..sgsqopcsocgnbckqvvqrsoacoujhbeptcNspcnfo.p
pnqqwcrsgncobeyqupcsjifgsbo bcfpcnbcgueob.cgnbcpnbbgptcPu..bovxcpqjbqob
pfgc.qrochbps.bcnsjcfgcnspcgfhvbtcNbcvqqwb.cui,csgcrfpcgnbcnbf.c vbew
Zfjbgqy,cvqqwsoacmupgcgnbcpfjb,crsgncgnbcesoapcqocnspcksoabepcfo.cgnb
rfg n- nfso,crsgncgnbc uevx,chvf wcnfse,cifegb.cfo.ciqjf.b.,crsgncgnb
pjfegcrfspg qfg,cefgnbecpnfhhxc qfgcfo.c.quhgkuvcvsobotcNbcrfpcsocfcaqq.
nujque,cfgcvbfpgcnbcrfpcpjsvsoacybexcafsvxcfo.caqq.-nujqueb.vxtcNspc.few
kf bcrfpcefgnbeckvupnb.ckeqjcgnbc nfjifaobcnbcnf.c.euowt

“Rnfg,cxqucnbeb?”cnbchbafocsocpueiespb,cpibfwsoacfpcgnquancnb’.cwoqro
nsjcfvvcnspcvskbtc“Rnx,cEfzujsnsocgqv.cjbcqovxcxbpgbe.fxcxqucrbeb
uo qop squptcNqrcpgefoab!cFo.c.qcxqucwoqrcS’ybchbbocgqcpbbcxqu?”

Efpwqvoswqycwobrcnbcrquv.c qjbcuicgqcnsjtcNbcvfs.cfps.bcgnbcifibepcfo.
gueob.cgqcZfjbgqytcGnbebcrfpcfcpjsvbcqocnspcvsip,cfo.cfcobrcpnf.bcqk
seesgfhvbcsjifgsbo bcrfpcfiifebogcsocgnfgcpjsvbt

“Scwoqrcxqucnfyb,”cnbcfoprbeb.tc“S’ybcnbfe.csgtcXqucvqqwb.ckqecjx
pq wttttcFo.cxqucwoqrcEfzujsnsocnfpcvqpgcnspcnbfegcgqcxqu?cNbcpfxp
xqu’ybchbbocrsgncnsjcgqcVuspbcSyfoqyof’p--xqucwoqr,cgnbcrqjfocxqucgesb.
gqchbkesbo.,ckqecrnqjcxqucrsowb.cgqcgnbcBdivqpsybcVsbugbofogcfo.cnb
rquv.coqgcuo.bepgfo.tc.qcxqucebjbjhbe?cNqrc quv.cnbckfsvcgq
uo.bepgfo.--sgcrfpclusgbc vbfe,crfpo’gcsg?”

“Rnfgcfcnqgcnbf.cnbcsp!”

“Gnbcbdivqpsybcqob?”

“Oq,cxqueckesbo.cEfzujsnsot”

“Xqucjupgcnfybcfcmqvvxcvskb,cJetcZfjbgqy;cbogefo bckebbcgqcgnbcjqpg
faebbfhvbcivf bptcRnq’pchbbociquesoac nfjifaobcsogqcxqucmupgcoqr?”

“Rb’ybcmupgchbbotttcnfysoacfc.esowcgqabgnbettttcXqucgfvwcfhqugciquesoa
sgcsogqcjb!”

“Hxcrfxcqkcfckbb!cXqucieqksgchxcbybexgnsoa!”cEfpwqvoswqycvfuanb.,c“sg’p
fvvcesang,cjxc.bfechqx,”cnbcf..b.,cpvfiisoacZfjbgqycqocgnbcpnquv.betc“S
fjcoqgcpibfwsoackeqjcgbjibe,chugcsocfckesbo.vxcrfx,ckqecpiqeg,cfpcgnfg
rqewjfocqkcxquepcpfs.crnbocnbcrfpcp ukkvsoacrsgnc.jsges,csocgnbc fpbcqk
gnbcqv.crqjfotttt”

“Nqrc.qcxqucwoqrcfhqugcsg?”

“IbenfipcScwoqrcjqebcfhqugcsgcgnfocxquc.qt”

“NqrcpgefoabcxqucfebttttcScfjcpuebcxqucfebcpgsvvcybexcuorbvvtcXqu
quango’gcgqcnfybc qjbcqugt”

“Qn,c.qcScpbbjcpgefoabcgqcxqu?”

“XbptcRnfgcfebcxquc.qsoa,cebf.soacgnbcifibep?”

“Xbpt”

“Gnbeb’pcfcvqgcfhqugcgnbcksebpt”

“Oq,cScfjcoqgcebf.soacfhqugcgnbcksebpt”cNbebcnbcvqqwb.cjxpgbesqupvxcfg
Zfjbgqy;cnspcvsipcrbebcgrspgb.cfafsocsocfcjq wsoacpjsvbtc“Oq,cScfjcoqg
ebf.soacfhqugcgnbcksebp,”cnbcrbogcqo,crsowsoacfgcZfjbgqytc“Hugc qokbpp
oqr,cjxc.bfeckbvvqr,cxqu’ebcfrkuvvxcfodsqupcgqcwoqrcrnfgcScfjcebf.soa
fhqug?”

“ScfjcoqgcsocgnbcvbfpgtcJfxo’gcScfpwcfclubpgsqo?cRnxc.qcxqucwbbi
qottt?”

“Vspgbo,cxqucfebcfcjfocqkc uvguebcfo.cb.u fgsqo?”

“Scrfpcsocgnbcpsdgnc vfppcfgcgnbcaxjofpsuj,”cpfs.cZfjbgqycrsgncpqjb
.saosgxt

“Psdgnc vfpp!cFn,cjxc q w-pifeeqr!cRsgncxquecifegsoacfo.cxquecesoap--xqu
febcfcabogvbjfocqkckqeguobtcKqq!crnfgcfc nfejsoachqx!”cNbebcEfpwqvoswqy
heqwbcsogqcfcobeyqupcvfuancesangcsocZfjbgqy’pckf btcGnbcvfggbec.ebr
hf w,cjqebcfjfzb.cgnfocqkkbo.b.t

“Kqq!cnqrcpgefoabcxqucfeb!”cZfjbgqycebibfgb.cybexcpbesqupvxtc“Sc fo’g
nbvicgnsowsoacxqucfebcpgsvvc.bvsesqupt”

“Scfjc.bvsesqup?cXqucfebckshhsoa,cjxc q w-pifeeqr!cPqcScfjcpgefoab?cXqu
kso.cjbc uesqup,c.qcxqu?”

“Xbp,c uesqupt”

“PnfvvcScgbvvcxqucrnfgcScrfpcebf.soacfhqug,crnfgcScrfpcvqqwsoackqe?cPbb
rnfgcfcvqgcqkcifibepcS’ybcjf.bcgnbjchesoacjbtcPupis squp,cbn?”

“Rbvv,crnfgcspcsg?”

“Xqucies wcuicxquecbfep?”

“Nqrc.qcxqucjbfo--‘ies wcuicjxcbfep’?”

“S’vvcbdivfsocgnfgcfkgberfe.p,chugcoqr,cjxchqx,cSc.b vfebcgqcxqutttcoq,
hbggbec‘Sc qokbpp’tttcOq,cgnfg’pcoqgcesangcbsgnbe;c‘Scjfwbcfc.biqpsgsqo
fo.cxqucgfwbcsgt’cSc.biqpbcgnfgcScrfpcebf.soa,cgnfgcScrfpcvqqwsoacfo.
pbfe nsoatttt”cnbcp ebrb.cuicnspcbxbpcfo.cifupb.tc“Scrfpcpbfe nsoa--fo.
 fjbcnbebcqociueiqpbcgqc.qcsg--kqecobrpcqkcgnbcjue.becqkcgnbcqv.
ifroheqwbecrqjfo,”cnbcfegs uvfgb.cfgcvfpg,cfvjqpgcsocfcrnspibe,chesoasoa
nspckf bcbd bb.soavxc vqpbcgqcgnbckf bcqkcZfjbgqytcZfjbgqycvqqwb.cfgcnsj
pgbf.svx,crsgnqugcjqysoacqec.efrsoacnspckf bcfrfxtcRnfgcpgeu wcZfjbgqy
fkgberfe.pcfpcgnbcpgefoabpgcifegcqkcsgcfvvcrfpcgnfgcpsvbo bckqvvqrb.ckqe
bdf gvxcfcjsougb,cfo.cgnfgcgnbxcafzb.cfgcqobcfoqgnbecfvvcgnbcrnsvbt

“Rnfgcskcxqucnfybchbbocebf.soacfhqugcsg?”cnbc esb.cfgcvfpg,cibeivbdb.
fo.csjifgsbogtc“Gnfg’pcoqchupsobppcqkcjsob!cRnfgcqkcsg?”

“Gnbcpfjbcqv.crqjfo,”cEfpwqvoswqycrbogcqocsocgnbcpfjbcrnspibe,coqg
nbb.soacZfjbgqy’pcbdivfofgsqo,c“fhqugcrnqjcxqucrbebcgfvwsoacsocgnb
iqvs b-qkks b,cxqucebjbjhbe,crnbocSckfsogb.tcRbvv,c.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.
oqr?”

“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfo?cUo.bepgfo.tttcrnfg?”cZfjbgqychequangcqug,cfvjqpg
fvfejb.t

Efpwqvoswqy’pcpbgcfo.cbfeobpgckf bcrfpcpu..bovxcgefopkqejb.,cfo.cnb
pu..bovxcrbogcqkkcsogqcgnbcpfjbcobeyqupcvfuancfpchbkqeb,cfpcgnquan
uggbevxcuofhvbcgqcebpgefsocnsjpbvktcFo.csocqobckvfpncnbceb fvvb.crsgn
bdgefqe.sofexcysys.obppcqkcpbopfgsqocfcjqjbogcsocgnbceb bogcifpg,cgnfg
jqjbogcrnbocnbcpgqq.crsgncgnbcfdbchbnso.cgnbc.qqe,crnsvbcgnbcvfg n
gebjhvb.cfo.cgnbcjbocqugps.bcprqebcfo.cpnqqwcsg,cfo.cnbcnf.cfcpu..bo
.bpsebcgqcpnqugcfgcgnbj,cgqcprbfecfgcgnbj,cgqciugcqugcnspcgqoaubcfg
gnbj,cgqcjq wcgnbj,cgqcvfuan,cfo.cvfuan,cfo.cvfuan!

“Xqucfebcbsgnbecjf.,cqettt”chbafocZfjbgqy,cfo.cnbcheqwbcqkk,cfpcgnquan
pguoob.chxcgnbcs.bfcgnfgcnf.cpu..bovxckvfpnb.csogqcnspcjso.t

“Qe?cQecrnfg?cRnfg?c qjb,cgbvvcjb!”

“Oqgnsoa,”cpfs.cZfjbgqy,cabggsoacfoaex,c“sg’pcfvvcoqopbopb!”

HqgncrbebcpsvbogtcFkgbecnspcpu..bocksgcqkcvfuangbecEfpwqvoswqychb fjb
pu..bovxcgnquangkuvcfo.cjbvfo nqvxtcNbciugcnspcbvhqrcqocgnbcgfhvbcfo.
vbfob.cnspcnbf.cqocnspcnfo.tcNbcpbbjb.cgqcnfybc qjivbgbvxckqeaqggbo
ZfjbgqytcGnbcpsvbo bcvfpgb.ckqecpqjbcgsjbt

“Rnxc.qo’gcxquc.esowcxquecgbf?cSg’pcabggsoac qv.,”cpfs.cZfjbgqyt

“Rnfg!cGbf?cQn,cxbptttt”cEfpwqvoswqycpsiib.cgnbcavfpp,ciugcfcjqepbvcqk
hebf.csocnspcjqugncfo.,cpu..bovxcvqqwsoacfgcZfjbgqy,cpbbjb.cgqcebjbjhbe
bybexgnsoacfo.ciuvvb.cnsjpbvkcgqabgnbetcFgcgnbcpfjbcjqjbogcnspckf b
ebpujb.csgpcqesasofvcjq wsoacbdiebppsqotcNbcrbogcqoc.esowsoacgbft

“Gnbebcnfybchbbocfcaebfgcjfoxcqkcgnbpbc esjbpcvfgbvx,”cpfs.cZfjbgqyt
“Qovxcgnbcqgnbec.fxcScebf.csocgnbc_Jqp qrcObrp_cgnfgcfcrnqvbcafoacqk
kfvpbc qsobepcnf.chbboc fuangcsocJqp qrtcSgcrfpcfcebauvfecpq sbgxtcGnbx
upb.cgqckqeabcgs wbgp!”

“Qn,chugcsgcrfpcfcvqoacgsjbcfaq!cScebf.cfhqugcsgcfcjqogncfaq,”
cEfpwqvoswqycfoprbeb.c fvjvxtc“Pqcxquc qops.becgnbjc esjsofvp?”cnbcf..b.,
pjsvsoat

“Qkc quepbcgnbxcfebc esjsofvpt”

“Gnbx?cGnbxcfebc nsv.ebo,cpsjivbgqop,coqgc esjsofvp!cRnx,cnfvkcfcnuo.eb.
ibqivbcjbbgsoackqecpu ncfocqhmb g--rnfgcfocs.bf!cGnebbcrquv.chbcgqq
jfox,cfo.cgnbocgnbxcrfogcgqcnfybcjqebckfsgncsocqobcfoqgnbecgnfocso
gnbjpbvybp!cQobcnfpcqovxcgqchvfhcsocnspc uipcfo.csgcfvvc qvvfipbpt
Psjivbgqop!cGnbxcboafab.cuogeupgrqegnxcibqivbcgqc nfoabcgnbcoqgbp--rnfg
fcgnsoacgqcgeupgcgqcfc fpufvcpgefoabe!cRbvv,cvbgcupcpuiiqpbcgnfgcgnbpb
psjivbgqopcpu  bb.cfo.cbf ncjfwbpcfcjsvvsqo,cfo.crnfgckqvvqrpckqecgnb
ebpgcqkcgnbsecvsybp?cBf ncspc.bibo.bogcqocgnbcqgnbepckqecgnbcebpgcqkcnsp
vskb!cHbggbecnfoacqobpbvkcfgcqo b!cFo.cgnbxc.s.coqgcwoqrcnqrcgqc nfoab
gnbcoqgbpcbsgnbe;cgnbcjfocrnqc nfoab.cgnbcoqgbpcgqqwcksybcgnqupfo.
equhvbp,cfo.cnspcnfo.pcgebjhvb.tcNbc quogb.cgnbcksepgckquecgnqupfo.,
hugc.s.coqgc quogcgnbckskgncgnqupfo.--nbcrfpcsocpu ncfcnueexcgqcabgcgnb
jqobxcsogqcnspciq wbgcfo.ceuocfrfxtcQkc quepbcnbcequpb.cpupis sqotcFo.
gnbcrnqvbcgnsoac fjbcgqcfc efpncgnequancqobckqqv!cSpcsgciqppshvb?”

“Gnfgcnspcnfo.pcgebjhvb.?”cqhpbeyb.cZfjbgqy,c“xbp,cgnfg’pclusgb
iqppshvbtcGnfg,cSckbbvclusgbcpueb,cspciqppshvbtcPqjbgsjbpcqobc fo’g
pgfo.cgnsoapt”

“ fo’gcpgfo.cgnfg?”

“Rnx,c quv.cxqucpgfo.csgcgnbo?cOq,cSc quv.o’gtcKqecgnbcpfwbcqkcfcnuo.eb.
equhvbpcgqckf bcpu ncfcgbeeshvbcbdibesbo b?cGqcaqcrsgnckfvpbcoqgbp
sogqcfchfowcrnbebcsg’pcgnbsechupsobppcgqcpiqgcgnfgcpqegcqkcgnsoa!cOq,cS
pnquv.coqgcnfybcgnbckf bcgqc.qcsgtcRquv.cxqu?”

Efpwqvoswqycnf.cfocsogbopbc.bpsebcfafsoc“gqciugcnspcgqoaubcqugt”cPnsybep
wbigceuoosoac.qrocnspcpisobt

“Scpnquv.c.qcsgclusgbc.skkbebogvx,”cEfpwqvoswqychbafotc“GnspcspcnqrcS
rquv.c nfoabcgnbcoqgbp:cS’.c quogcgnbcksepgcgnqupfo.cgnebbcqeckquecgsjbp
hf wrfe.pcfo.ckqerfe.p,cvqqwsoacfgcbybexcoqgbcfo.cgnbocS’.cpbgcgqcgnb
pb qo.cgnqupfo.;cS’.c quogcgnfgcnfvk-rfxcgnequancfo.cgnbocnqv.cpqjb
kskgx-equhvbcoqgbcgqcgnbcvsang,cgnbocgueocsg,cgnbocnqv.csgcgqcgnbcvsang
fafso--gqcpbbcrnbgnbecsgcrfpcfcaqq.cqobtc‘Scfjcfkefs.,’cScrquv.cpfx,c‘f
ebvfgsqocqkcjsobcvqpgcgrbogx-ksybcequhvbpcgnbcqgnbec.fxcgnequancf
kfvpbcoqgb,’cfo.cgnbocS’.cgbvvcgnbjcgnbcrnqvbcpgqextcFo.cfkgbecSchbafo
 quogsoacgnbcgnse.,c‘Oq,cbd upbcjb,’cScrquv.cpfx,c‘Sckfo xcScjf.bcf
jspgfwbcsocgnbcpbybogncnuo.eb.csocgnfgcpb qo.cgnqupfo.,cScfjcoqgcpuebt’
Fo.cpqcScrquv.casybcuicgnbcgnse.cgnqupfo.cfo.caqchf wcgqcgnbcpb qo.cfo.
pqcqocgqcgnbcbo.tcFo.crnbocScnf.cksospnb.,cS’.cis wcqugcqobckeqjcgnb
kskgncfo.cqobckeqjcgnbcpb qo.cgnqupfo.cfo.cgfwbcgnbjcfafsocgqcgnbcvsang
fo.cfpwcfafso,c‘ nfoabcgnbj,civbfpb,’cfo.ciugcgnbc vbewcsogqcpu ncfcpgbr
gnfgcnbcrquv.coqgcwoqrcnqrcgqcabgces.cqkcjbtcRnbocS’.cksospnb.cfo.cnf.
aqobcqug,cS’.c qjbchf w,c‘Oq,cbd upbcjb,’cfo.cfpwckqecpqjbcbdivfofgsqot
Gnfg’pcnqrcS’.c.qcsgt”

“Kqq!crnfgcgbeeshvbcgnsoapcxqucpfx!”cpfs.cZfjbgqy,cvfuansoatc“Hugcfvv
gnfgcspcqovxcgfvwtcSc.febcpfxcrnbocsgc fjbcgqc.bb.pcxqu’.cjfwbcfcpvsit
Schbvsbybcgnfgcbybocfcief gspb.,c.bpibefgbcjfoc fooqgcfvrfxpceb wqocqo
nsjpbvk,cju ncvbppcxqucfo.cStcGqcgfwbcfocbdfjivbcobfecnqjb--gnfgcqv.
rqjfocjue.beb.csocquec.spges gtcGnbcjue.bebecpbbjpcgqcnfybchbbocf
.bpibefgbckbvvqr,cnbcespwb.cbybexgnsoacsocqiboc.fxvsang,crfpcpfyb.chx
fcjsef vb--hugcnspcnfo.pcpnqqw,cgqqtcNbc.s.coqgcpu  bb.csoceqhhsoacgnb
ivf b,cnbc quv.o’gcpgfo.csgtcGnfgcrfpc vbfeckeqjcgnbttt”

Efpwqvoswqycpbbjb.cqkkbo.b.t

“ vbfe?cRnxc.qo’gcxquc fg ncnsjcgnbo?”cnbc esb.,cjfvs squpvxcashsoacfg
Zfjbgqyt

“Rbvv,cgnbxcrsvvc fg ncnsjt”

“Rnq?cXqu?c.qcxqucpuiiqpbcxquc quv.c fg ncnsj?cXqu’ybcfcgquancmqh!cF
aebfgciqsogckqecxqucspcrnbgnbecfcjfocspcpibo.soacjqobxcqecoqgtcSkcnbcnf.
oqcjqobxcfo.cpu..bovxchbasopcpibo.soa,cnbcjupgchbcgnbcjfotcPqcgnfgcfox
 nsv.c focjspvbf.cxqut”

“Gnbckf gcspcgnbxcfvrfxpc.qcgnfg,cgnquan,”cfoprbeb.cZfjbgqytc“Fcjfocrsvv
 qjjsgcfc vbybecjue.becfgcgnbcespwcqkcnspcvskbcfo.cgnbocfgcqo bcnbcaqbp
.esowsoacsocfcgfybeotcGnbxcfebc fuangcpibo.soacjqobx,cgnbxcfebcoqgcfvv
fpc uoosoacfpcxqucfebtcXqucrquv.o’gcaqcgqcfcgfybeo,cqkc quepb?”

Efpwqvoswqyckeqrob.cfo.cvqqwb.cpgbf.svxcfgcZfjbgqyt

“Xqucpbbjcgqcbomqxcgnbcpuhmb gcfo.crquv.cvswbcgqcwoqrcnqrcScpnquv.
hbnfybcsocgnfgc fpb,cgqq?”cnbcfpwb.crsgnc.spivbfpuebt

“Scpnquv.cvswbcgq,”cZfjbgqycfoprbeb.cksejvxcfo.cpbesqupvxtcPqjbrnfgcgqq
ju ncbfeobpgobppchbafocgqcfiibfecsocnspcrqe.pcfo.cvqqwpt

“Ybexcju n?”

“Ybexcju n!”

“FvvcesangcgnbotcGnspcspcnqrcScpnquv.chbnfyb,”cEfpwqvoswqychbafo,cfafso
hesoasoacnspckf bc vqpbcgqcZfjbgqy’p,cfafsocpgfesoacfgcnsjcfo.cpibfwsoa
socfcrnspibe,cpqcgnfgcgnbcvfggbeciqpsgsybvxcpnu..beb.tc“Gnspcspcrnfg
Scpnquv.cnfybc.qobtcScpnquv.cnfybcgfwbocgnbcjqobxcfo.cmbrbvp,cScpnquv.
nfybcrfvwb.cqugcqkcgnbebcfo.cnfybcaqobcpgefsangcgqcpqjbc.bpbegb.civf b
rsgnckbo bpcequo.csgcfo.cp fe bvxcfoxqobcgqchbcpbbo,cpqjbcwsg nbocafe.bo
qecivf bcqkcgnfgcpqegtcScpnquv.cnfybcvqqwb.cqugchbkqebnfo.cpqjbcpgqob
rbsansoacfcnuo.eb.rbsangcqecjqebcrns ncnf.chbbocvxsoacsocgnbc qeobeckeqj
gnbcgsjbcgnbcnqupbcrfpchusvgtcScrquv.cvskgcgnfgcpgqob--gnbebcrquv.cpueb
gqchbcfcnqvvqrcuo.becsg,cfo.cScrquv.ciugcgnbcmbrbvpcfo.cjqobxcsocgnfg
nqvbtcGnbocS’.ceqvvcgnbcpgqobchf wcpqcgnfgcsgcrquv.cvqqwcfpchbkqeb,
rquv.ciebppcsgc.qrocrsgncjxckqqgcfo.crfvwcfrfxtcFo.ckqecfcxbfecqecgrq,
gnebbcjfxhb,cScrquv.coqgcgqu ncsgtcFo.,crbvv,cgnbxc quv.cpbfe n!cGnbeb’.
hbcoqcgef bt”

“Xqucfebcfcjf.jfo,”cpfs.cZfjbgqy,cfo.ckqecpqjbcebfpqocnbcgqqcpiqwbcsocf
rnspibe,cfo.cjqyb.cfrfxckeqjcEfpwqvoswqy,crnqpbcbxbpcrbebcavsggbesoatcNb
nf.cgueob.ckbfekuvvxcifvbcfo.cnspcuiibecvsicrfpcgrsg nsoacfo.clusybesoat
Nbchbogc.qrocfpc vqpbcfpciqppshvbcgqcZfjbgqy,cfo.cnspcvsipchbafocgqcjqyb
rsgnqugcuggbesoacfcrqe.tcGnspcvfpgb.ckqecnfvkcfcjsougb;cnbcwobrcrnfgcnb
rfpc.qsoa,chugc quv.coqgcebpgefsocnsjpbvktcGnbcgbeeshvbcrqe.cgebjhvb.cqo
nspcvsip,cvswbcgnbcvfg ncqocgnfgc.qqe;csocfoqgnbecjqjbogcsgcrsvvchebfw
qug,csocfoqgnbecjqjbogcnbcrsvvcvbgcsgcaq,cnbcrsvvcpibfwcqugt

“Fo.crnfgcskcsgcrfpcScrnqcjue.beb.cgnbcqv.crqjfocfo.cVszfybgf?”cnbcpfs.
pu..bovxcfo.--ebfvspb.crnfgcnbcnf.c.qobt

Zfjbgqycvqqwb.crsv.vxcfgcnsjcfo.cgueob.crnsgbcfpcgnbcgfhvb vqgntcNsp
kf bcrqebcfc qogqegb.cpjsvbt

“Hugcspcsgciqppshvb?”cnbchequangcqugckfsogvxtcEfpwqvoswqycvqqwb.
refgnkuvvxcfgcnsjt

“Qrocuicgnfgcxquchbvsbyb.csg,cxbp,cxquc.s.?”

“Oqgcfchsgcqkcsg,cSchbvsbybcsgcvbppcgnfocbybecoqr,”cZfjbgqyc esb.
nfpgsvxt

“S’ybc fuangcjxc q w-pifeeqr!cPqcxquc.s.chbvsbybcsgchbkqeb,cskcoqrcxqu
hbvsbybcvbppcgnfocbybe?”

“Oqgcfgcfvv,”c esb.cZfjbgqy,cqhysqupvxcbjhfeefppb.tc“Nfybcxquchbbo
kesangbosoacjbcpqcfpcgqcvbf.cuicgqcgnsp?”

“Xquc.qo’gchbvsbybcsgcgnbo?cRnfgcrbebcxqucgfvwsoacfhqugchbnso.cjx
hf wcrnbocScrbogcqugcqkcgnbciqvs b-qkks b?cFo.crnxc.s.cgnbcbdivqpsyb
vsbugbofogclubpgsqocjbcfkgbecSckfsogb.?cNbx,cgnbeb,”cnbcpnqugb.cgqcgnb
rfsgbe,cabggsoacuicfo.cgfwsoacnspc fi,c“nqrcju n?”

“Gnsegxc qib wp,”cgnbcvfggbecebivsb.,ceuoosoacuit

“Fo.cgnbebcspcgrbogxc qib wpckqecyq.wftcPbbcrnfgcfcvqgcqkcjqobx!”cnb
nbv.cqugcnspcpnfwsoacnfo.cgqcZfjbgqycrsgncoqgbpcsocsgtc“Eb.coqgbpcfo.
hvub,cgrbogx-ksybcequhvbptcRnbebc.s.cScabgcgnbj?cFo.crnbebc.s.cjxcobr
 vqgnbpc qjbckeqj?cXqucwoqrcScnf.coqgcfc qib wtcXqu’ybc eqpp-bdfjsob.cjx
vfo.vf.x,cS’vvchbchquo.ttttcRbvv,cgnfg’pcboquan!c_Fppbzc fupé!_cGsvvcrb
jbbgcfafso!”

Nbcrbogcqug,cgebjhvsoacfvvcqybeckeqjcfcpqegcqkcrsv.cnxpgbes fv
pbopfgsqo,csocrns ncgnbebcrfpcfocbvbjbogcqkcsopukkbefhvbcefiguebtcXbgcnb
rfpcavqqjxcfo.cgbeeshvxcgseb.tcNspckf bcrfpcgrspgb.cfpcfkgbecfcksgt
Nspckfgsaubcso ebfpb.cefis.vxtcFoxcpnq w,cfoxcseesgfgsoacpbopfgsqo
pgsjuvfgb.cfo.cebysyb.cnspcbobeasbpcfgcqo b,chugcnspcpgeboagnckfsvb.cfp
lus wvxcrnbocgnbcpgsjuvupcrfpcebjqyb.t

Zfjbgqy,cvbkgcfvqob,cpfgckqecfcvqoacgsjbcsocgnbcpfjbcivf b,civuoab.cso
gnquangtcEfpwqvoswqycnf.cuorsggsoavxcrqewb.cfcebyqvugsqocsocnspchefsocqo
fc begfsociqsogcfo.cnf.cjf.bcuicnspcjso.ckqecnsjc qo vupsybvxt

“SvxfcIbgeqysg ncspcfchvq wnbf.,”cnbc.b s.b.t

Efpwqvoswqycnf.cnfe.vxcqibob.cgnbc.qqecqkcgnbcebpgfuefogcrnbocnb
pgujhvb.cfafsopgcEfzujsnsocqocgnbcpgbiptcGnbxc.s.coqgcpbbcbf ncqgnbe
gsvvcgnbxcfvjqpgcwoq wb.cfafsopgcbf ncqgnbetcKqecfcjqjbogcgnbxcpgqq.
vqqwsoacbf ncqgnbecuicfo.c.qrotcEfzujsnsocrfpcaebfgvxcfpgquo.b.,cgnbo
foabe,cebfvcfoabecavbfjb.cksbe bvxcsocnspcbxbpt

“Pqcnbebcxqucfeb!”cnbcpnqugb.cfgcgnbcgqicqkcnspcyqs b--“xqucefocfrfx
keqjcxquechb.!cFo.cnbebcS’ybchbbocvqqwsoackqecxqucuo.becgnbcpqkf!cRb
rbogcuicgqcgnbcafeebgtcScfvjqpgchbfgcOfpgfpxfcqocxquecf  quogtcFo.cnbeb
nbcspcfkgbecfvvtcEq.xf!cRnfgcspcgnbcjbfosoacqkcsg?cGbvvcjbcgnbcrnqvb
geugn!c qokbpp!c.qcxqucnbfe?”

“SgcjbfopcgnfgcS’jcps wcgqc.bfgncqkcxqucfvvcfo.cScrfogcgqchbcfvqob,”
cEfpwqvoswqycfoprbeb.c fvjvxt

“Fvqob?cRnbocxqucfebcoqgcfhvbcgqcrfvw,crnbocxqueckf bcspcfpcrnsgbcfpcf
pnbbgcfo.cxqucfebcafpisoackqechebfgn!cS.sqg!tttcRnfgcnfybcxquchbboc.qsoa
socgnbcIfvfspc.bc espgfv?cQrocuicfgcqo b!”

“Vbgcjbcaq!”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqycfo.cgesb.cgqcifppcnsjtcGnspcrfpcgqqcju n
kqecEfzujsnso;cnbcaesiib.cnsjcksejvxchxcgnbcpnquv.bet

“Vbgcxqucaq?cXquc.febcgbvvcjbcgqcvbgcxqucaq?c.qcxqucwoqrcrnfgcS’vvc.q
rsgncxquc.seb gvx?cS’vvcis wcxqucui,cgsbcxqucuicsocfchuo.vb,c feexcxqu
nqjbcuo.becjxcfejcfo.cvq wcxqucui!”

“Vspgbo,cEfzujsnso,”cEfpwqvoswqychbafoclusbgvx,cfiifebogvxc fvj--“ fo’g
xqucpbbcgnfgcSc.qo’gcrfogcxquechbobyqvbo b?cFcpgefoabc.bpsebcxqucnfybcgq
pnqrbechbobksgpcqocfcjfocrnqtttc uepbpcgnbj,crnqckbbvpcgnbjcfchue.bocso
kf g!cRnxc.s.cxqucpbbwcjbcqugcfgcgnbchbasoosoacqkcjxcsvvobpp?cJfxhbcS
rfpcybexcavf.cgqc.sbtc.s.o’gcScgbvvcxqucivfsovxcboquancgq-.fxcgnfg
xqucrbebcgqeguesoacjb,cgnfgcScrfptttcps wcqkcxqu!cXqucpbbjcgqcrfogcgq
gqeguebcibqivb!cScfppuebcxqucgnfgcfvvcgnfgcspcpbesqupvxcnso.besoacjx
eb qybex,chb fupbcsg’pc qogsoufvvxcseesgfgsoacjbtcXqucpfrcZqppsjqy
rbogcfrfxcmupgcoqrcgqcfyqs.cseesgfgsoacjbtcXqucvbfybcjbcfvqobcgqq,ckqe
aqq.obpp’cpfwb!cRnfgcesangcnfybcxqu,cso.bb.,cgqcwbbicjbchxckqe b?c.qo’g
xqucpbbcgnfgcScfjcsociqppbppsqocqkcfvvcjxckf uvgsbpcoqr?cNqr,cnqrc fo
Scibepuf.bcxqucoqgcgqcibepb ugbcjbcrsgncxquecwso.obpp?cScjfxchb
uoaefgbkuv,cScjfxchbcjbfo,cqovxcvbgcjbchb,ckqecAq.’pcpfwb,cvbgcjbchb!
Vbgcjbchb,cvbgcjbchb!”

Nbchbafoc fvjvx,cavqfgsoachbkqebnfo.cqybecgnbcyboqjqupcinefpbpcnbcrfp
fhqugcgqcuggbe,chugcksospnb.,cifogsoackqechebfgn,csocfckebozx,cfpcnbcnf.
hbbocrsgncVuznsot

Efzujsnsocpgqq.cfcjqjbog,cgnquangcfo.cvbgcnspcnfo.c.eqit

“Rbvv,caqcgqcnbvvcgnbo,”cnbcpfs.cabogvxcfo.cgnquangkuvvxtc“Pgfx,”cnb
eqfeb.,cfpcEfpwqvoswqycrfpcfhqugcgqcjqybtc“VspgbocgqcjbtcVbgcjbcgbvv
xqu,cgnfgcxqucfebcfvvcfcpbgcqkchfhhvsoa,ciqpsoacs.sqgp!cSkcxqu’ybcfox
vsggvbcgequhvbcxqucheqq.cqybecsgcvswbcfcnbocqybecfocbaatcFo.cxqucfeb
ivfasfespgpcbybocsocgnfg!cGnbebcspo’gcfcpsaocqkcso.bibo.bogcvskbcso
xqu!cXqucfebcjf.bcqkcpibejf bgscqsogjbogcfo.cxqu’ybcvxjincsocxquecybsop
sopgbf.cqkchvqq.tcSc.qo’gchbvsbybcsocfoxqobcqkcxqu!cSocfoxc se ujpgfo bp
gnbcksepgcgnsoackqecfvvcqkcxqucspcgqchbcuovswbcfcnujfochbsoa!cPgqi!”cnb
 esb.crsgnceb.quhvb.ckuex,coqgs soacgnfgcEfpwqvoswqycrfpcfafsocjfwsoa
fcjqybjbog--“nbfecjbcqug!cXqucwoqrcS’jcnfysoacfcnqupb-rfejsoacgnsp
bybosoa,cSc.febcpfxcgnbx’ybcfeesyb.chxcoqr,chugcScvbkgcjxcuo vbcgnbeb--S
mupgcefocso--gqceb bsybcgnbcaubpgptcFo.cskcxqucrbebo’gcfckqqv,cfc qjjqo
kqqv,cfcibekb gckqqv,cskcxqucrbebcfocqesasofvcsopgbf.cqkcfcgefopvfgsqottt
xqucpbb,cEq.xf,cSceb qaospbcxqu’ebcfc vbybeckbvvqr,chugcxqu’ebcf
kqqv!--fo.cskcxqucrbebo’gcfckqqvcxqu’.c qjbcequo.cgqcjbcgnspcbybosoa
sopgbf.cqkcrbfesoacqugcxquechqqgpcsocgnbcpgebbg!cPso bcxqucnfybcaqob
qug,cgnbeb’pcoqcnbvickqecsg!cS’.casybcxqucfcpouacbfpxc nfse,cjxcvfo.vf.x
nfpcqobtttcfc uicqkcgbf,c qjifoxttttcQecxquc quv.cvsbcqocgnbcpqkf--fox
rfxcxqucrquv.chbcrsgncupttttcZqppsjqycrsvvchbcgnbebcgqqtcRsvvcxquc qjb?”

“Oqt”

“E-euhhspn!”cEfzujsnsocpnqugb.,cqugcqkcifgsbo btc“Nqrc.qcxqucwoqr?
Xquc fo’gcfoprbeckqecxquepbvk!cXquc.qo’gcwoqrcfoxgnsoacfhqugcsgtttt
Gnqupfo.pcqkcgsjbpcS’ybckquangcgqqgncfo.cofsvcrsgncibqivbcfo.ceuochf w
gqcgnbjcfkgberfe.pttttcQobckbbvpcfpnfjb.cfo.caqbpchf wcgqcfcjfo!cPq
ebjbjhbe,cIqg nsowqy’pcnqupbcqocgnbcgnse.cpgqebxtttt”

“Rnx,cJetcEfzujsnso,cSc.qchbvsbybcxqu’.cvbgcfoxhq.xchbfgcxquckeqjcpnbbe
hbobyqvbo bt”

“Hbfg?cRnqj?cJb?cS’.cgrspgcnspcoqpbcqkkcfgcgnbcjbebcs.bf!cIqg nsowqy’p
nqupb,c47,cHfhupnwso’pckvfgtttt”

“Scpnfvvcoqgc qjb,cEfzujsnsot”cEfpwqvoswqycgueob.cfo.crfvwb.cfrfxt

“Schbgcxqucrsvv,”cEfzujsnsocpnqugb.cfkgbecnsjtc“Scebkupbcgqcwoqrcxqucsk
xquc.qo’g!cPgfx,cnbx,cspcZfjbgqycsocgnbeb?”

“Xbpt”

“.s.cxqucpbbcnsj?”

“Xbpt”

“Gfvwb.cgqcnsj?”

“Xbpt”

“Rnfgcfhqug?c qokquo.cxqu,c.qo’gcgbvvcjbcgnbotcIqg nsowqy’pcnqupb,c47,
Hfhupnwso’pckvfg,cebjbjhbe!”

Efpwqvoswqycrfvwb.cqocfo.cgueob.cgnbc qeobecsogqcPf.qyxcPgebbgt
Efzujsnsocvqqwb.cfkgbecnsjcgnquangkuvvxtcGnbocrsgncfcrfybcqkcnspcnfo.cnb
rbogcsogqcgnbcnqupbchugcpgqiib.cpnqegcqkcgnbcpgfsept

“ qokquo.csg,”cnbcrbogcqocfvjqpgcfvqu.tc“Nbcgfvwb.cpbopshvxchugcxbgttt
Scfjcfckqqv!cFpcskcjf.jboc.s.o’gcgfvwcpbopshvx!cFo.cgnspcrfpcmupgcrnfg
Zqppsjqycpbbjb.cfkefs.cqkt”cNbcpgeu wcnspcksoabecqocnspckqebnbf.tc“Rnfg
sktttcnqrc quv.cScvbgcnsjcaqcqkkcfvqob?cNbcjfxc.eqrocnsjpbvkttttcF n,
rnfgcfchvuo.be!cSc fo’gt”cFo.cnbcefochf wcgqcqybegfwbcEfpwqvoswqy,chug
gnbebcrfpcoqcgef bcqkcnsjtcRsgncfc uepbcnbcebgueob.crsgncefis.cpgbipcgq
gnbcIfvfspc.bc espgfvcgqclubpgsqocZfjbgqyt

Efpwqvoswqycrfvwb.cpgefsangcgqcD----cHes.ab,cpgqq.csocgnbcjs..vb,cfo.
vbfosoachqgncbvhqrpcqocgnbcefsvcpgfeb.csogqcgnbc.spgfo btcQocifegsoa
rsgncEfzujsnso,cnbckbvgcpqcju ncrbfwbecgnfgcnbc quv.cp fe bvxcebf ncgnsp
ivf btcNbcvqoab.cgqcpsgcqecvsbc.qrocpqjbrnbebcsocgnbcpgebbgtcHbo.soa
qybecgnbcrfgbe,cnbcafzb.cjb nfos fvvxcfgcgnbcvfpgcisowckvupncqkcgnb
puopbg,cfgcgnbceqrcqkcnqupbpcaeqrsoac.fewcsocgnbcafgnbesoacgrsvsang,cfg
qobc.spgfogcfggs crso.qrcqocgnbcvbkgchfow,ckvfpnsoacfpcgnquancqocksebcso
gnbcvfpgcefxpcqkcgnbcpbggsoacpuo,cfgcgnbc.fewbosoacrfgbecqkcgnbc fofv,
fo.cgnbcrfgbecpbbjb.cgqc fg ncnspcfggbogsqotcFgcvfpgceb.c se vbpckvfpnb.
hbkqebcnspcbxbp,cgnbcnqupbpcpbbjb.cjqysoa,cgnbcifppbep-hx,cgnbc fofv
hfowp,cgnbc feesfabp,cfvvc.fo b.chbkqebcnspcbxbptcPu..bovxcnbcpgfegb.,
pfyb.cfafsocibenfipckeqjcprqqosoachxcfocuo fooxcfo.cns.bqupcpsangtcNb
hb fjbcfrfebcqkcpqjbqobcpgfo.soacqocgnbcesangcps.bcqkcnsj;cnbcvqqwb.
fo.cpfrcfcgfvvcrqjfocrsgncfcwbe nsbkcqocnbecnbf.,crsgncfcvqoa,cxbvvqr,
rfpgb.ckf bcfo.ceb.cpuowbocbxbptcPnbcrfpcvqqwsoacpgefsangcfgcnsj,chug
qhysqupvxcpnbcpfrcoqgnsoacfo.ceb qaospb.coqcqobtcPu..bovxcpnbcvbfob.cnbe
esangcnfo.cqocgnbcifefibg,cvskgb.cnbecesangcvbacqybecgnbcefsvsoa,cgnbo
nbecvbkgcfo.cgnebrcnbepbvkcsogqcgnbc fofvtcGnbcksvgnxcrfgbecifegb.cfo.
prfvvqrb.cuicsgpcys gsjckqecfcjqjbog,chugcfocsopgfogcvfgbecgnbc.eqrosoa
rqjfockvqfgb.cgqcgnbcpuekf b,cjqysoacpvqrvxcrsgncgnbc ueebog,cnbecnbf.
fo.cvbapcsocgnbcrfgbe,cnbecpwsegcsokvfgb.cvswbcfchfvvqqocqybecnbechf wt

“Fcrqjfoc.eqrosoa!cFcrqjfoc.eqrosoa!”cpnqugb.c.qzbopcqkcyqs bp;cibqivb
efocui,chqgnchfowpcrbebcgneqoab.crsgncpib gfgqep,cqocgnbches.abcibqivb
 eqr.b.cfhqugcEfpwqvoswqy,ciebppsoacuichbnso.cnsjt

“Jbe xcqocsg!csg’pcquecFkeqpsoxf!”cfcrqjfoc esb.cgbfekuvvxc vqpbchxt
“Jbe x!cpfybcnbe!cwso.cibqivb,ciuvvcnbecqug!”

“Fchqfg,cfchqfg”crfpcpnqugb.csocgnbc eqr.tcHugcgnbebcrfpcoqcobb.cqkcf
hqfg;cfciqvs bjfocefoc.qrocgnbcpgbipcgqcgnbc fofv,cgnebrcqkkcnspcaebfg
 qfgcfo.cnspchqqgpcfo.ceupnb.csogqcgnbcrfgbetcSgcrfpcbfpxcgqcebf ncnbe:
pnbckvqfgb.crsgnsocfc quivbcqkcxfe.pckeqjcgnbcpgbip,cnbc fuangcnqv.cqk
nbec vqgnbpcrsgncnspcesangcnfo.cfo.crsgncnspcvbkgcpbszb.cfciqvbcrns ncf
 qjef.bcnbv.cqugcgqcnsj;cgnbc.eqrosoacrqjfocrfpciuvvb.cqugcfgcqo btcGnbx
vfs.cnbecqocgnbcaefosgbcifybjbogcqkcgnbcbjhfowjbogtcPnbcpqqoceb qybeb.
 qop squpobpp,cefspb.cnbecnbf.,cpfgcuicfo.chbafocpobbzsoacfo.c quansoa,
pguis.vxcrsisoacnbecrbgc.ebppcrsgncnbecnfo.ptcPnbcpfs.coqgnsoat

“Pnb’pc.euowcnbepbvkcqugcqkcnbecpbopbp,”cgnbcpfjbcrqjfo’pcyqs bcrfsvb.
fgcnbecps.btc“QugcqkcnbecpbopbptcGnbcqgnbec.fxcpnbcgesb.cgqcnfoa
nbepbvk,crbc ugcnbec.qrotcScefocqugcgqcgnbcpnqicmupgcoqr,cvbkgcjxcvsggvb
asevcgqcvqqwcfkgbecnbe--fo.cnbebcpnb’pcsocgequhvbcfafso!cFcobsanhque,
abogvbjfo,cfcobsanhque,crbcvsybc vqpbchx,cgnbcpb qo.cnqupbckeqjcgnbcbo.,
pbbcxqo.betttt”

Gnbc eqr.cheqwbcuitcGnbciqvs bcpgsvvcebjfsob.cequo.cgnbcrqjfo,cpqjbqob
jbogsqob.cgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqottttcEfpwqvoswqycvqqwb.cqocrsgncfcpgefoab
pbopfgsqocqkcso.skkbebo bcfo.cfifgnxtcNbckbvgc.spaupgb.tc“Oq,cgnfg’p
vqfgnpqjbtttcrfgbetttcsg’pcoqgcaqq.cboquan,”cnbcjuggbeb.cgqcnsjpbvkt
“Oqgnsoacrsvvc qjbcqkcsg,”cnbcf..b.,c“oqcupbcgqcrfsgtcRnfgcfhqugcgnb
iqvs bcqkks bttt?cFo.crnxcspo’gcZfjbgqycfgcgnbciqvs bcqkks b?cGnbciqvs b
qkks bcspcqibocgsvvcgbocq’ vq wtttt”cNbcgueob.cnspchf wcgqcgnbcefsvsoa
fo.cvqqwb.cfhqugcnsjt

“Ybexcrbvvcgnbo!”cnbcpfs.cebpqvugbvx;cnbcjqyb.ckeqjcgnbches.abcfo.
rfvwb.csocgnbc.seb gsqocqkcgnbciqvs bcqkks btcNspcnbfegckbvgcnqvvqrcfo.
bjigxtcNbc.s.coqgcrfogcgqcgnsowtcBybocnspc.biebppsqocnf.cifppb.,cgnbeb
rfpcoqgcfcgef bcoqrcqkcgnbcbobeaxcrsgncrns ncnbcnf.cpbgcqugc“gqcjfwbcfo
bo.cqkcsgcfvvt”c qjivbgbcfifgnxcnf.cpu  bb.b.cgqcsgt

“Rbvv,csg’pcfcrfxcqugcqkcsg,”cnbcgnquang,crfvwsoacpvqrvxcfo.cvspgvbppvx
fvqoacgnbc fofvchfowtc“FoxrfxcS’vvcjfwbcfocbo.,ckqecScrfogcgqttttcHug
spcsgcfcrfxcqug?cRnfgc.qbpcsgcjfggbe!cGnbeb’vvchbcgnbcplufebcxfe.cqk
pif b--nf!cHugcrnfgcfocbo.!cSpcsgcebfvvxcgnbcbo.?cPnfvvcScgbvvcgnbjcqe
oqg?cFntttc.fjo!cNqrcgseb.cScfj!cSkcSc quv.ckso.cpqjbrnbebcgqcpsgcqecvsb
.qrocpqqo!cRnfgcScfjcjqpgcfpnfjb.cqkcspcsgpchbsoacpqcpguis.tcHugcSc.qo’g
 febcfhqugcgnfgcbsgnbe!cRnfgcs.sqgs cs.bfpc qjbcsogqcqob’pcnbf.t”

Gqcebf ncgnbciqvs bcqkks bcnbcnf.cgqcaqcpgefsangckqerfe.cfo.cgfwbcgnb
pb qo.cgueosoacgqcgnbcvbkgtcSgcrfpcqovxcfckbrcif bpcfrfxtcHugcfgcgnb
ksepgcgueosoacnbcpgqiib.cfo.,cfkgbecfcjsougb’pcgnquang,cgueob.csogqcf
ps.bcpgebbgcfo.crbogcgrqcpgebbgpcqugcqkcnspcrfx,ciqppshvxcrsgnqugcfox
qhmb g,cqeciqppshvxcgqc.bvfxcfcjsougbcfo.cafsocgsjbtcNbcrfvwb.,cvqqwsoa
fgcgnbcaequo.;cpu..bovxcpqjbqobcpbbjb.cgqcrnspibecsocnspcbfe;cnbcvskgb.
nspcnbf.cfo.cpfrcgnfgcnbcrfpcpgfo.soacfgcgnbcybexcafgbcqkc_gnb_cnqupbt
Nbcnf.coqgcifppb.csg,cnbcnf.coqgchbbocobfecsgcpso bc_gnfg_cbybosoat
Focqybernbvjsoa,cuof  quogfhvbcieqjigsoac.ebrcnsjcqotcNbcrbogcsogqcgnb
nqupb,cifppb.cgnequancgnbcafgbrfx,cgnbocsogqcgnbcksepgcbogefo bcqocgnb
esang,cfo.chbafocjquogsoacgnbckfjsvsfecpgfse fpbcgqcgnbckquegncpgqebxt
Gnbcofeeqr,cpgbbicpgfse fpbcrfpcybexc.fewtcNbcpgqiib.cfgcbf ncvfo.soa
fo.cvqqwb.cequo.cnsjcrsgnc uesqpsgx;cqocgnbcksepgcvfo.soacgnbckefjbrqew
qkcgnbcrso.qrcnf.chbbocgfwbocqugtc“Gnfgcrfpo’gcpqcgnbo,”cnbcgnquangt
Nbebcrfpcgnbckvfgcqocgnbcpb qo.cpgqebxcrnbebcOswqvfxcfo.c.jsgescnf.chbbo
rqewsoatc“Sg’pcpnugcuicfo.cgnbc.qqecobrvxcifsogb.tcPqcsg’pcgqcvbgt”cGnbo
gnbcgnse.cpgqebxcfo.cgnbckquegntc“Nbeb!”cNbcrfpcibeivbdb.cgqckso.cgnb
.qqecqkcgnbckvfgcrs.bcqibotcGnbebcrbebcjbocgnbeb,cnbc quv.cnbfecyqs bp;
nbcnf.coqgcbdib gb.cgnfgtcFkgbechesbkcnbpsgfgsqocnbcjquogb.cgnbcvfpg
pgfsepcfo.crbogcsogqcgnbckvfgtcSg,cgqq,crfpchbsoac.qobcui;cgnbebcrbeb
rqewjbocsocsgtcGnspcpbbjb.cgqcfjfzbcnsj;cnbcpqjbnqrckfo sb.cgnfgcnb
rquv.ckso.cbybexgnsoacfpcnbcvbkgcsg,cbybocibenfipcgnbc qeipbpcsocgnb
pfjbcivf bpcqocgnbckvqqetcFo.coqr,chfebcrfvvp,coqckueosgueb;csgcpbbjb.
pgefoabtcNbcrfvwb.cgqcgnbcrso.qrcfo.cpfgc.qrocqocgnbcrso.qr-psvvtcGnbeb
rbebcgrqcrqewjbo,chqgncxquoackbvvqrp,chugcqobcju ncxquoabecgnfocgnb
qgnbetcGnbxcrbebcifibesoacgnbcrfvvpcrsgncfcobrcrnsgbcifibec qybeb.crsgn
vsvf ckvqrbep,csopgbf.cqkcgnbcqv.,c.segx,cxbvvqrcqobtcEfpwqvoswqyckqe
pqjbcebfpqockbvgcnqeeshvxcfooqxb.chxcgnsptcNbcvqqwb.cfgcgnbcobrcifibe
rsgnc.spvswb,cfpcgnquancnbckbvgcpqeexcgqcnfybcsgcfvvcpqc nfoab.t
Gnbcrqewjbocnf.cqhysqupvxcpgfxb.chbxqo.cgnbsecgsjbcfo.coqrcgnbxcrbeb
nueesb.vxceqvvsoacuicgnbsecifibecfo.cabggsoacebf.xcgqcaqcnqjbtcGnbxcgqqw
oqcoqgs bcqkcEfpwqvoswqy’pc qjsoacso;cgnbxcrbebcgfvwsoatcEfpwqvoswqy
kqv.b.cnspcfejpcfo.cvspgbob.t

“Pnbc qjbpcgqcjbcsocgnbcjqeosoa,”cpfs.cgnbcbv.becgqcgnbcxquoabe,c“ybex
bfevx,cfvvc.ebppb.cuitc‘Rnxcfebcxquciebbosoacfo.ciesowsoa?’cpfxpcStc‘S
fjcebf.xcgqc.qcfoxgnsoacgqcivbfpbcxqu,cGsgcYfppsvsg n!’cGnfg’pcfcrfxcqk
aqsoacqo!cFo.cpnbc.ebppb.cuicvswbcfcebauvfeckfpnsqochqqw!”

“Fo.crnfgcspcfckfpnsqochqqw?”cgnbcxquoabecqobcfpwb.tcNbcqhysqupvx
ebafe.b.cgnbcqgnbecfpcfocfugnqesgxt

“Fckfpnsqochqqwcspcfcvqgcqkcis guebp,c qvqueb.,cfo.cgnbxc qjbcgqcgnb
gfsvqepcnbebcbybexcPfgue.fx,chxciqpgckeqjcfheqf.,cgqcpnqrckqvwpcnqr
gqc.ebpp,cgnbcjfvbcpbdcfpcrbvvcfpcgnbckbjfvbtcGnbx’ebcis guebptcGnb
abogvbjbocfebcabobefvvxcrbfesoackuec qfgpcfo.ckqecgnbcvf.sbp’ckvukkvbp,
gnbx’ebchbxqo.cfoxgnsoacxquc fockfo xt”

“Gnbeb’pcoqgnsoacxquc fo’gckso.csocIbgbephuea,”cgnbcxquoabec esb.
bognupsfpgs fvvx,c“bd bigckfgnbecfo.cjqgnbe,cgnbeb’pcbybexgnsoa!”

“Bd bigcgnbj,cgnbeb’pcbybexgnsoacgqchbckquo.,cjxchqx,”cgnbcbv.be
.b vfeb.cpbogbogsqupvxt

Efpwqvoswqycaqgcuicfo.crfvwb.csogqcgnbcqgnbeceqqjcrnbebcgnbcpgeqoachqd,
gnbchb.,cfo.cgnbc nbpgcqkc.efrbepcnf.chbbo;cgnbceqqjcpbbjb.cgqcnsjcybex
gsoxcrsgnqugckueosguebcsocsgtcGnbcifibecrfpcgnbcpfjb;cgnbcifibecsocgnb
 qeobecpnqrb.crnbebcgnbc fpbcqkcswqopcnf.cpgqq.tcNbcvqqwb.cfgcsgcfo.
rbogcgqcgnbcrso.qrtcGnbcbv.becrqewjfocvqqwb.cfgcnsjcfpwfo bt

“Rnfgc.qcxqucrfog?”cnbcfpwb.cpu..bovxt

Sopgbf.cqkcfoprbesoacEfpwqvoswqycrbogcsogqcgnbcifppfabcfo.ciuvvb.cgnb
hbvvtcGnbcpfjbchbvv,cgnbcpfjbc ef wb.coqgbtcNbcefoacsgcfcpb qo.cfo.
fcgnse.cgsjb;cnbcvspgbob.cfo.cebjbjhbeb.tcGnbcns.bqupcfo.cfaqospsoavx
kbfekuvcpbopfgsqocnbcnf.ckbvgcgnbochbafocgqc qjbchf wcjqebcfo.cjqeb
ysys.vxtcNbcpnu..beb.cfgcbybexcesoacfo.csgcafybcnsjcjqebcfo.cjqeb
pfgspkf gsqot

“Rbvv,crnfgc.qcxqucrfog?cRnqcfebcxqu?”cgnbcrqewjfocpnqugb.,caqsoacqugcgq
nsjtcEfpwqvoswqycrbogcsops.bcfafsot

“Scrfogcgqcgfwbcfckvfg,”cnbcpfs.tc“Scfjcvqqwsoacequo.t”

“Sg’pcoqgcgnbcgsjbcgqcvqqwcfgceqqjpcfgcosang!cfo.cxqucquangcgqc qjbcui
rsgncgnbciqegbet”

“Gnbckvqqepcnfybchbbocrfpnb.,crsvvcgnbxchbcifsogb.?”cEfpwqvoswqycrbog
qotc“Spcgnbebcoqchvqq.?”

“Rnfgchvqq.?”

“Rnx,cgnbcqv.crqjfocfo.cnbecpspgbecrbebcjue.beb.cnbebtcGnbebcrfpcf
ibekb gciqqvcgnbebt”

“Hugcrnqcfebcxqu?”cgnbcrqewjfoc esb.,cuobfpxt

“RnqcfjcS?”

“Xbpt”

“Xqucrfogcgqcwoqr?c qjbcgqcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqo,cS’vvcgbvvcxqut”

Gnbcrqewjbocvqqwb.cfgcnsjcsocfjfzbjbogt

“Sg’pcgsjbckqecupcgqcaq,crbcfebcvfgbtc qjbcfvqoa,cFvxqpnwftcRbcjupgcvq w
ui,”cpfs.cgnbcbv.becrqewjfot

“Ybexcrbvv,c qjbcfvqoa,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqycso.skkbebogvx,cfo.caqsoa
qugcksepg,cnbcrbogcpvqrvxc.qropgfseptc“Nbx,ciqegbe,”cnbc esb.csocgnb
afgbrfxt

Fgcgnbcbogefo bcpbybefvcibqivbcrbebcpgfo.soa,cpgfesoacfgcgnbcifppbep-hx;
gnbcgrqciqegbep,cfcibfpfogcrqjfo,cfcjfocsocfcvqoac qfgcfo.cfckbrcqgnbept
Efpwqvoswqycrbogcpgefsangcuicgqcgnbjt

“Rnfgc.qcxqucrfog?”cfpwb.cqobcqkcgnbciqegbept

“Nfybcxquchbbocgqcgnbciqvs bcqkks b?”

“S’ybcmupgchbbocgnbebtcRnfgc.qcxqucrfog?”

“Spcsgcqibo?”

“Qkc quepbt”

“Spcgnbcfppspgfogcgnbeb?”

“NbcrfpcgnbebckqecfcgsjbtcRnfgc.qcxqucrfog?”

Efpwqvoswqycjf.bcoqcebivx,chugcpgqq.chbps.bcgnbjcvqpgcsocgnquangt

“Nb’pchbbocgqcvqqwcfgcgnbckvfg,”cpfs.cgnbcbv.becrqewjfo,c qjsoackqerfe.t

“Rns nckvfg?”

“Rnbebcrbcfebcfgcrqewtc‘Rnxcnfybcxqucrfpnb.cfrfxcgnbchvqq.?’cpfxpcnbt
‘Gnbebcnfpchbbocfcjue.becnbeb,’cpfxpcnb,c‘fo.cS’ybc qjbcgqcgfwbcsgt’
Fo.cnbchbafocesoasoacfgcgnbchbvv,cfvvchugcheqwbcsgtc‘ qjbcgqcgnbciqvs b
pgfgsqo,’cpfxpcnbtc‘S’vvcgbvvcxqucbybexgnsoacgnbebt’cNbcrquv.o’gcvbfyb
upt”

Gnbciqegbecvqqwb.cfgcEfpwqvoswqy,ckeqrosoacfo.cibeivbdb.t

“Rnqcfebcxqu?”cnbcpnqugb.cfpcsjiebppsybvxcfpcnbc quv.t

“ScfjcEq.sqocEqjfoqysg ncEfpwqvoswqy,ckqejbevxcfcpgu.bog,cScvsybcso
Pnsv’pcnqupb,coqgckfeckeqjcnbeb,ckvfgcOujhbec14,cfpwcgnbciqegbe,cnb
woqrpcjbt”cEfpwqvoswqycpfs.cfvvcgnspcsocfcvfzx,c.ebfjxcyqs b,coqg
gueosoacequo.,chugcvqqwsoacsogbogvxcsogqcgnbc.fewbosoacpgebbgt

“Rnxcnfybcxquchbbocgqcgnbckvfg?”

“Gqcvqqwcfgcsgt”

“Rnfgcspcgnbebcgqcvqqwcfg?”

“Gfwbcnsjcpgefsangcgqcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqo,”cgnbcjfocsocgnbcvqoac qfg
mbewb.csocfheuigvxt

Efpwqvoswqycvqqwb.csogbogvxcfgcnsjcqybecnspcpnquv.becfo.cpfs.csocgnb
pfjbcpvqr,cvfzxcgqobp:

“ qjbcfvqoat”

“Xbp,cgfwbcnsj,”cgnbcjfocrbogcqocjqebc qoks.bogvxtc“Rnxcrfpcnbcaqsoa
sogqc_gnfg_,crnfg’pcsocnspcjso.,cbn?”

“Nb’pcoqgc.euow,chugcAq.cwoqrpcrnfg’pcgnbcjfggbecrsgncnsj,”cjuggbeb.cgnb
rqewjfot

“Hugcrnfgc.qcxqucrfog?”cgnbciqegbecpnqugb.cfafso,chbasoosoacgqcabgcfoaex
socbfeobpg--“Rnxcfebcxqucnfoasoacfhqug?”

“Xquckuowcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqocgnbo?”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqycmbbesoavxt

“Nqrckuowcsg?cRnxcfebcxqucnfoasoacfhqug?”

“Nb’pcfceqaub!”cpnqugb.cgnbcibfpfogcrqjfot

“Rnxcrfpgbcgsjbcgfvwsoacgqcnsj?”c esb.cgnbcqgnbeciqegbe,cfcnuabcibfpfog
socfckuvvcqiboc qfgcfo.crsgncwbxpcqocnspchbvgtc“Abgcfvqoa!cNbcspcfceqaub
fo.coqcjspgfwbtcAbgcfvqoa!”

Fo.cpbszsoacEfpwqvoswqychxcgnbcpnquv.becnbckvuoacnsjcsogqcgnbcpgebbgtcNb
vue nb.ckqerfe.,chugceb qybeb.cnspckqqgsoa,cvqqwb.cfgcgnbcpib gfgqepcso
psvbo bcfo.crfvwb.cfrfxt

“Pgefoabcjfo!”cqhpbeyb.cgnbcrqewjfot

“Gnbebcfebcpgefoabckqvwpcfhqugcoqrf.fxp,”cpfs.cgnbcrqjfot

“Xqucpnquv.cnfybcgfwbocnsjcgqcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqocfvvcgnbcpfjb,”cpfs.cgnb
jfocsocgnbcvqoac qfgt

“Hbggbecnfybcoqgnsoacgqc.qcrsgncnsj,”c.b s.b.cgnbchsaciqegbetc“Fcebauvfe
eqaub!cMupgcrnfgcnbcrfogp,cxqucjfxchbcpueb,chugcqo bcgfwbcnsjcui,cxqu
rqo’gcabgces.cqkcnsjttttcRbcwoqrcgnbcpqeg!”

“PnfvvcScaqcgnbebcqecoqg?”cgnquangcEfpwqvoswqy,cpgfo.soacsocgnbcjs..vb
qkcgnbcgnqequankfebcfgcgnbc eqpp-eqf.p,cfo.cnbcvqqwb.cfhqugcnsj,cfp
gnquancbdib gsoackeqjcpqjbqobcfc.b spsybcrqe.tcHugcoqcpquo.c fjb,cfvv
rfpc.bf.cfo.cpsvbogcvswbcgnbcpgqobpcqocrns ncnbcrfvwb.,c.bf.cgqcnsj,cgq
nsjcfvqobttttcFvvcfgcqo bcfgcgnbcbo.cqkcgnbcpgebbg,cgrqcnuo.eb.cxfe.p
frfx,csocgnbcafgnbesoac.upwcnbcpfrcfc eqr.cfo.cnbfe.cgfvwcfo.cpnqugpt
Socgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbc eqr.cpgqq.cfc feesfabttttcFcvsangcavbfjb.csocgnb
js..vbcqkcgnbcpgebbgtc“Rnfgcspcsg?”cEfpwqvoswqycgueob.cgqcgnbcesang
fo.crbogcuicgqcgnbc eqr.tcNbcpbbjb.cgqc vug ncfgcbybexgnsoacfo.cpjsvb.
 qv.vxcrnbocnbceb qaospb.csg,ckqecnbcnf.ckuvvxcjf.bcuicnspcjso.cgqcaqcgq
gnbciqvs bcpgfgsqocfo.cwobrcgnfgcsgcrquv.cfvvcpqqochbcqybet



 NFIGBEcYSS

Focbvbafogc feesfabcpgqq.csocgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbceqf.crsgncfcifsecqk
pisesgb.caebxcnqepbp;cgnbebcrfpcoqcqobcsocsg,cfo.cgnbc qf njfocnf.caqg
qkkcnspchqdcfo.cpgqq.chx;cgnbcnqepbpcrbebchbsoacnbv.chxcgnbches.vbtttt
Fcjfppcqkcibqivbcnf.cafgnbeb.cequo.,cgnbciqvs bcpgfo.soacsockeqogtcQob
qkcgnbjcnbv.cfcvsangb.cvfogbeocrns ncnbcrfpcgueosoacqocpqjbgnsoacvxsoa
 vqpbcgqcgnbcrnbbvptcBybexqobcrfpcgfvwsoa,cpnqugsoa,cbd vfsjsoa;cgnb
 qf njfocpbbjb.cfgcfcvqppcfo.cwbigcebibfgsoa:

“Rnfgcfcjspkqeguob!cAqq.cVqe.,crnfgcfcjspkqeguob!”

Efpwqvoswqyciupnb.cnspcrfxcsocfpckfecfpcnbc quv.,cfo.cpu  bb.b.cfgcvfpg
socpbbsoacgnbcqhmb gcqkcgnbc qjjqgsqocfo.csogbebpgtcQocgnbcaequo.cf
jfocrnqcnf.chbboceuocqybecvfxcfiifebogvxcuo qop squp,cfo.c qybeb.crsgn
hvqq.;cnbcrfpcybexchf.vxc.ebppb.,chugcoqgcvswbcfcrqewjfotcHvqq.crfp
kvqrsoackeqjcnspcnbf.cfo.ckf b;cnspckf bcrfpc eupnb.,cjugsvfgb.cfo.
.spksaueb.tcNbcrfpcbys.bogvxchf.vxcsomueb.t

“Jbe skuvcnbfybo!”crfsvb.cgnbc qf njfo,c“rnfgcjqebc quv.cSc.q?cSkcS’.
hbboc.esysoackfpgcqecnf.coqgcpnqugb.cgqcnsj,chugcScrfpcaqsoaclusbgvx,
oqgcsocfcnueextcBybexqobc quv.cpbbcScrfpcaqsoacfvqoacmupgcvswbcbybexhq.x
bvpbtcFc.euowbocjfoc fo’gcrfvwcpgefsang,crbcfvvcwoqrttttcScpfrcnsj
 eqppsoacgnbcpgebbg,cpgfaabesoacfo.cfvjqpgckfvvsoatcScpnqugb.cfafso
fo.cfcpb qo.cfo.cfcgnse.cgsjb,cgnbocScnbv.cgnbcnqepbpcso,chugcnbckbvv
pgefsangcuo.becgnbseckbbg!cBsgnbecnbc.s.csgcqociueiqpbcqecnbcrfpcybex
gsipxttttcGnbcnqepbpcfebcxquoacfo.cebf.xcgqcgfwbckesangtttcgnbxcpgfegb.,
nbcp ebfjb.tttcgnfgcjf.bcgnbjcrqepbtcGnfg’pcnqrcsgcnfiibob.!”

“Gnfg’pcmupgcnqrcsgcrfp,”cfcyqs bcsocgnbc eqr.c qoksejb.t

“Nbcpnqugb.,cgnfg’pcgeub,cnbcpnqugb.cgnebbcgsjbp,”cfoqgnbecyqs b
.b vfeb.t

“Gnebbcgsjbpcsgcrfp,crbcfvvcnbfe.csg,”cpnqugb.cfcgnse.t

Hugcgnbc qf njfocrfpcoqgcybexcju nc.spgebppb.cfo.ckesangbob.tcSgcrfp
bys.bogcgnfgcgnbc feesfabchbvqoab.cgqcfces ncfo.csjiqegfogcibepqocrnq
rfpcfrfsgsoacsgcpqjbrnbeb;cgnbciqvs b,cqkc quepb,crbebcsocoqcvsggvb
fodsbgxcgqcfyqs.cuipbggsoacnspcfeefoabjbogptcFvvcgnbxcnf.cgqc.qcrfpcgq
gfwbcgnbcsomueb.cjfocgqcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqocfo.cgnbcnqpisgfvtcOqcqobcwobr
nspcofjbt

JbfornsvbcEfpwqvoswqycnf.cplubbzb.csocfo.cpgqqib.c vqpbecqybecnsjtcGnb
vfogbeocpu..bovxcvsangb.cuicgnbcuokqeguofgbcjfo’pckf btcNbceb qaospb.
nsjt

“Scwoqrcnsj!cScwoqrcnsj!”cnbcpnqugb.,ciupnsoacgqcgnbckeqogtc“Sg’pcf
aqybeojbogc vbewcebgseb.ckeqjcgnbcpbeys b,cJfejbvf.qytcNbcvsybpc vqpb
hxcsocWqzbv’pcnqupbttttcJfwbcnfpgbckqecfc.q gqe!cScrsvvcifx,cpbb?”cNb
iuvvb.cjqobxcqugcqkcnspciq wbgcfo.cpnqrb.csgcgqcgnbciqvs bjfotcNbcrfpcso
ysqvbogcfasgfgsqot

Gnbciqvs bcrbebcavf.cgnfgcgnbxcnf.ckquo.cqugcrnqcgnbcjfocrfpt
Efpwqvoswqycafybcnspcqrocofjbcfo.cf..ebpp,cfo.,cfpcbfeobpgvxcfpcskcsg
nf.chbbocnspckfgnbe,cnbchbpquangcgnbciqvs bcgqc feexcgnbcuo qop squp
Jfejbvf.qycgqcnspcvq.asoacfgcqo bt

“Mupgcnbeb,cgnebbcnqupbpcfrfx,”cnbcpfs.cbfabevx,c“gnbcnqupbchbvqoapcgq
Wqzbv,cfces ncAbejfotcNbcrfpcaqsoacnqjb,coqc.quhgc.euowtcScwoqrcnsj,
nbcspcfc.euowfe.tcNbcnfpcfckfjsvxcgnbeb,cfcrskb,c nsv.ebo,cnbcnfpcqob
.fuangbettttcSgcrsvvcgfwbcgsjbcgqcgfwbcnsjcgqcgnbcnqpisgfv,cfo.cgnbebcsp
puebcgqchbcfc.q gqecsocgnbcnqupbtcS’vvcifx,cS’vvcifx!cFgcvbfpgcnbcrsvv
hbcvqqwb.cfkgbecfgcnqjbtttcgnbxcrsvvcnbvicnsjcfgcqo btcHugcnb’vvc.sb
hbkqebcxqucabgcnsjcgqcgnbcnqpisgfvt”cNbcjfofab.cgqcpvsicpqjbgnsoa
uopbbocsogqcgnbciqvs bjfo’pcnfo.tcHugcgnbcgnsoacrfpcpgefsangkqerfe.
fo.cvbasgsjfgb,cfo.csocfoxc fpbcnbvicrfpc vqpbecnbebtcGnbxcefspb.cgnb
somueb.cjfo;cibqivbcyqvuogbbeb.cgqcnbvit

Wqzbv’pcnqupbcrfpcgnsegxcxfe.pcfrfxtcEfpwqvoswqycrfvwb.chbnso.,
 febkuvvxcnqv.soacJfejbvf.qy’pcnbf.cfo.cpnqrsoacgnbcrfxt

“Gnspcrfx,cgnspcrfx!cRbcjupgcgfwbcnsjcuipgfsepcnbf.ckqebjqpgtcGueo
equo.!cS’vvcifx,cS’vvcjfwbcsgcrqegncxquecrnsvb,”cnbcjuggbeb.t

WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcnf.cmupgchbauo,cfpcpnbcfvrfxpc.s.cfgcbybexckebb
jqjbog,crfvwsoacgqcfo.ckeqcsocnbecvsggvbceqqjckeqjcrso.qrcgqcpgqybcfo.
hf wcfafso,crsgncnbecfejpckqv.b.cf eqppcnbec nbpg,cgfvwsoacgqcnbepbvk
fo.c quansoatcQkcvfgbcpnbcnf.chbauocgqcgfvwcjqebcgnfocbybecgqcnbecbv.bpg
asev,cIqvbowf,cfc nsv.cqkcgbo,crnq,cgnquancgnbebcrfpcju ncpnbc.s.coqg
uo.bepgfo.,cuo.bepgqq.cybexcrbvvcgnfgcnbecjqgnbecobb.b.cnbe,cfo.cpq
fvrfxpcrfg nb.cnbecrsgncnbechsac vbybecbxbpcfo.cpgeqybcnbecugjqpg
gqcfiibfecgqcuo.bepgfo.tcGnspcgsjbcIqvbowfcrfpcuo.ebppsoacnbecvsggvb
heqgnbe,crnqcnf.chbbocuorbvvcfvvc.fxcfo.crfpcaqsoacgqchb.tcGnbchqxcrfp
rfsgsoackqecnbecgqcgfwbcqkkcnspcpnseg,crns ncnf.cgqchbcrfpnb.cfgcosangt
Nbcrfpcpsggsoacpgefsangcfo.cjqgsqovbppcqocfc nfse,crsgncfcpsvbog,
pbesqupckf b,crsgncnspcvbapcpgebg nb.cqugcpgefsangchbkqebcnsj--nbbvp
gqabgnbecfo.cgqbpcgueob.cqugt

Nbcrfpcvspgbosoacgqcrnfgcnspcjqgnbecrfpcpfxsoacgqcnspcpspgbe,cpsggsoa
ibekb gvxcpgsvvcrsgnciqugsoacvsipcfo.crs.b-qibocbxbp,cmupgcfpcfvvcaqq.
vsggvbchqxpcnfybcgqcpsgcrnbocgnbxcfebcuo.ebppb.cgqcaqcgqchb.tcFcvsggvb
asev,cpgsvvcxquoabe,c.ebppb.cvsgbefvvxcsocefap,cpgqq.cfgcgnbcp ebbo,
rfsgsoackqecnbecgueotcGnbc.qqecqocgqcgnbcpgfsepcrfpcqibocgqcebvsbyb
gnbjcfcvsggvbckeqjcgnbc vqu.pcqkcgqhf  qcpjqwbcrns nckvqfgb.csockeqjcgnb
qgnbeceqqjpcfo.chequangcqocvqoacgbeeshvbcksgpcqkc quansoacsocgnbciqqe,
 qopujigsybcrqjfotcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcpbbjb.cgqcnfybcaeqrocbybocgnsoobe
.uesoacgnfgcrbbwcfo.cgnbcnb gs ckvupncqocnbeckf bcrfpchesangbecgnfo
bybet

“Xqucrquv.o’gchbvsbyb,cxquc fo’gcsjfasob,cIqvbowf,”cpnbcpfs.,crfvwsoa
fhqugcgnbceqqj,c“rnfgcfcnfiixcvuduesqupcvskbcrbcnf.csocjxcifif’pcnqupb
fo.cnqrcgnspc.euowfe.cnfpchequangcjb,cfo.crsvvchesoacxqucfvv,cgqceuso!
Ififcrfpcfc sysvc qvqobvcfo.cqovxcfcpgbickeqjchbsoacfcaqybeoqe;cpqcgnfg
bybexqobcrnqc fjbcgqcpbbcnsjcpfs.,c‘Rbcvqqwcuiqocxqu,cSyfocJsnfsvqysg n,
fpcquecaqybeoqe!’cRnbocStttcrnbottt”cpnbc quanb.cysqvbogvx,c“qn,c uepb.
vskb,”cpnbc esb.,c vbfesoacnbecgneqfgcfo.ciebppsoacnbecnfo.pcgqcnbe
hebfpg,c“rnbocStttcrnbocfgcgnbcvfpgchfvvtttcfgcgnbcjfepnfv’pttt
Ieso bppcHbzzbjbvoxcpfrcjb--rnqcafybcjbcgnbchvbppsoacrnbocxqueckfgnbe
fo.cScrbebcjfeesb.,cIqvbowf--pnbcfpwb.cfgcqo bc‘Spo’gcgnfgcgnbciebggx
asevcrnqc.fo b.cgnbcpnfrvc.fo bcfgcgnbchebfwsoa-ui?’c(Xqucjupgcjbo.
gnfgcgbfe,cxqucjupgcgfwbcxquecobb.vbcfo.c.feocsgcfpcScpnqrb.cxqu,cqe
gq-jqeeqr-- quan,c quan,c quan--nbcrsvvcjfwbcgnbcnqvbchsaabe,”cpnb
fegs uvfgb.crsgncbkkqegt)c“Ieso bcP nbaqvpwqx,cfcwfjjbemuowbe,cnf.cmupg
 qjbckeqjcIbgbephueacgnbotttcnbc.fo b.cgnbcjfzuewfcrsgncjbcfo.crfogb.cgq
jfwbcjbcfocqkkbecobdgc.fx;chugcScgnfowb.cnsjcsockvfggbesoacbdiebppsqop
fo.cgqv.cnsjcgnfgcjxcnbfegcnf.cvqoachbbocfoqgnbe’ptcGnfgcqgnbecrfpcxque
kfgnbe,cIqvxf;cififcrfpckbfekuvvxcfoaexttttcSpcgnbcrfgbecebf.x?cAsybcjb
gnbcpnseg,cfo.cgnbcpgq wsoap!cVs.f,”cpfs.cpnbcgqcgnbcxquoabpgcqob,c“xqu
jupgcjfofabcrsgnqugcxquec nbjspbcgq-osangtttcfo.cvfxcxquecpgq wsoapcqug
rsgncsgtttcS’vvcrfpncgnbjcgqabgnbettttcNqrcspcsgcgnfgc.euowbocyfafhqo.
.qbpo’gc qjbcso?cNbcnfpcrqeocnspcpnsegcgsvvcsgcvqqwpcvswbcfc.spn- vqug,
nbcnfpcgqeocsgcgqcefap!cS’.c.qcsgcfvvcgqabgnbe,cpqcfpcoqgcgqcnfybcgq
rqewcgrqcosangpceuoosoa!cQn,c.bfe!c( quan,c quan,c quan,c quan!)cFafso!
Rnfg’pcgnsp?”cpnbc esb.,coqgs soacfc eqr.csocgnbcifppfabcfo.cgnbcjbo,
rnqcrbebciupnsoacsogqcnbeceqqj,c feexsoacfchue.botc“Rnfgcspcsg?cRnfgcfeb
gnbxchesoasoa?cJbe xcqocup!”

“Rnbebcfebcrbcgqciugcnsj?”cfpwb.cgnbciqvs bjfo,cvqqwsoacequo.crnbo
Jfejbvf.qy,cuo qop squpcfo.c qybeb.crsgnchvqq.,cnf.chbboc feesb.csot

“Qocgnbcpqkf!cIugcnsjcpgefsangcqocgnbcpqkf,crsgncnspcnbf.cgnspcrfx,”
cEfpwqvoswqycpnqrb.cnsjt

“Euocqybecsocgnbceqf.!c.euow!”cpqjbqobcpnqugb.csocgnbcifppfabt

WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcpgqq.,cgueosoacrnsgbcfo.cafpisoackqechebfgntcGnb
 nsv.ebocrbebcgbeesksb.tcVsggvbcVs.fcp ebfjb.,ceupnb.cgqcIqvbowfcfo.
 vug nb.cfgcnbe,cgebjhvsoacfvvcqybet

Nfysoacvfs.cJfejbvf.qyc.qro,cEfpwqvoswqyckvbrcgqcWfgbesofcSyfoqyoft

“KqecAq.’pcpfwbchbc fvj,c.qo’gchbckesangbob.!”cnbcpfs.,cpibfwsoa
lus wvx,c“nbcrfpc eqppsoacgnbceqf.cfo.crfpceuocqybechxcfc feesfab,c.qo’g
hbckesangbob.,cnbcrsvvc qjbcgq,cScgqv.cgnbjchesoacnsjcnbebtttcS’ybchbbo
nbebcfvebf.x,cxqucebjbjhbe?cNbcrsvvc qjbcgq;cS’vvcifx!”

“Nb’pc.qobcsgcgnspcgsjb!”cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofc esb.c.bpifsesoavxcfo.cpnb
eupnb.cgqcnbecnuphfo.t

Efpwqvoswqycoqgs b.cfgcqo bcgnfgcpnbcrfpcoqgcqobcqkcgnqpbcrqjbocrnq
prqqocbfpsvxtcPnbcsopgfogvxcivf b.cuo.becgnbcvu wvbppcjfo’pcnbf.cf
isvvqr,crns ncoqcqobcnf.cgnquangcqkcfo.chbafocuo.ebppsoacfo.cbdfjsosoa
nsjtcPnbcwbigcnbecnbf.,ckqeabggsoacnbepbvk,chsgsoacnbecgebjhvsoacvsip
fo.cpgskvsoacgnbcp ebfjpcrns ncrbebcebf.xcgqchebfwckeqjcnbet

Efpwqvoswqycjbfornsvbcso.u b.cpqjbqobcgqceuockqecfc.q gqetcGnbebcrfpcf
.q gqe,csgcfiibfeb.,cobdgc.qqechugcqobt

“S’ybcpbogckqecfc.q gqe,”cnbcwbigcfppuesoacWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,c“.qo’gchb
uobfpx,cS’vvcifxtcNfybo’gcxqucrfgbe?tttcfo.casybcjbcfcofiwsocqecfcgqrbv,
foxgnsoa,cfpclus wcfpcxquc fottttcNbcspcsomueb.,chugcoqgcwsvvb.,chbvsbyb
jbttttcRbcpnfvvcpbbcrnfgcgnbc.q gqecpfxp!”

WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcefocgqcgnbcrso.qr;cgnbeb,cqocfcheqwboc nfsecsocgnb
 qeobe,cfcvfeabcbfegnborfebchfpsockuvvcqkcrfgbecnf.chbbocpgqq.,cso
ebf.sobppckqecrfpnsoacnbec nsv.ebo’pcfo.cnuphfo.’pcvsobocgnfgcosangt
Gnspcrfpnsoacrfpc.qobchxcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfgcosangcfgcvbfpgcgrs bcf
rbbw,cskcoqgcqkgbobetcKqecgnbckfjsvxcnf.c qjbcgqcpu ncfcifppcgnfgcgnbx
rbebcief gs fvvxcrsgnqugc nfoabcqkcvsobo,cfo.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofc quv.
oqgcbo.uebcuo vbfovsobppcfo.,cefgnbecgnfocpbbc.segcsocgnbcnqupb,cpnb
iebkbeeb.cgqcrbfecnbepbvkcqugcfgcosang,crqewsoachbxqo.cnbecpgeboagncrnbo
gnbcebpgcrbebcfpvbbi,cpqcfpcgqcabgcgnbcrbgcvsobocnuoacqocfcvsobcfo.c.ex
hxcgnbcjqeosoatcPnbcgqqwcuicgnbchfpsocqkcrfgbecfgcEfpwqvoswqy’pceblubpg,
hugcfvjqpgckbvvc.qrocrsgncnbechue.botcHugcgnbcvfggbecnf.cfvebf.x
pu  bb.b.csockso.soacfcgqrbv,crbggb.csgcfo.chbafocrfpnsoacgnbchvqq.cqkk
Jfejbvf.qy’pckf bt

WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcpgqq.chx,chebfgnsoacifsokuvvxcfo.ciebppsoacnbecnfo.p
gqcnbechebfpgtcPnbcrfpcsocobb.cqkcfggbogsqocnbepbvktcEfpwqvoswqychbafo
gqcebfvspbcgnfgcnbcjsangcnfybcjf.bcfcjspgfwbcsocnfysoacgnbcsomueb.cjfo
hequangcnbebtcGnbciqvs bjfo,cgqq,cpgqq.csocnbpsgfgsqot

“Iqvbowf,”c esb.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,c“euocgqcPqosf,cjfwbcnfpgbtcSkcxqu
.qo’gckso.cnbecfgcnqjb,cvbfybcrqe.cgnfgcnbeckfgnbecnfpchbboceuocqybe
fo.cgnfgcpnbcspcgqc qjbcnbebcfgcqo btttcrnbocpnbc qjbpcsotcEuo,cIqvbowf!
gnbeb,ciugcqocgnbcpnfrvt”

“Euocxqueckfpgbpg!”c esb.cgnbcvsggvbchqxcqocgnbc nfsecpu..bovx,cfkgbe
rns ncnbcebvfipb.csogqcgnbcpfjbc.ujhcesas.sgx,crsgncequo.cbxbp,cnsp
nbbvpcgneupgckqerfe.cfo.cnspcgqbpcpiebf.cqugt

Jbfornsvbcgnbceqqjcnf.chb qjbcpqckuvvcqkcibqivbcgnfgcxquc quv.o’gcnfyb
.eqiib.cfcisotcGnbciqvs bjbocvbkg,cfvvcbd bigcqob,crnqcebjfsob.ckqecf
gsjb,cgexsoacgqc.esybcqugcgnbcibqivbcrnqc fjbcsockeqjcgnbcpgfseptcFvjqpg
fvvcJf.fjbcVsiibyb npbv’pcvq.abepcnf.cpgebfjb.csockeqjcgnbcsoobeceqqjp
qkcgnbckvfg;cfgcksepgcgnbxcrbebcplubbzb.cgqabgnbecsocgnbc.qqerfx,chug
fkgberfe.pcgnbxcqybekvqrb.csogqcgnbceqqjtcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofckvbrcsogqcf
kuext

“Xqucjsangcvbgcnsjc.sbcsocibf b,cfgcvbfpg,”cpnbcpnqugb.cfgcgnbc eqr.,
“spcsgcfcpib gf vbckqecxqucgqcafibcfg?cRsgnc safebggbp!c( quan,c quan,
 quan!)cXqucjsangcfpcrbvvcwbbicxquecnfgpcqottttcFo.cgnbebcspcqobcsocnsp
nfg!tttcAbgcfrfx!cXqucpnquv.cebpib gcgnbc.bf.,cfgcvbfpg!”

Nbec quanc nqwb.cnbe--hugcnbecebieqf nbpcrbebcoqgcrsgnqugcebpuvgtcGnbx
bys.bogvxcpgqq.csocpqjbcfrbcqkcWfgbesofcSyfoqyoftcGnbcvq.abep,cqobcfkgbe
foqgnbe,cplubbzb.chf wcsogqcgnbc.qqerfxcrsgncgnfgcpgefoabcsoobeckbbvsoa
qkcpfgspkf gsqocrns ncjfxchbcqhpbeyb.csocgnbciebpbo bcqkcfcpu..bo
f  s.bog,cbybocsocgnqpbcobfebpgcfo.c.bfebpgcgqcgnbcys gsj,ckeqjcrns n
oqcvsysoacjfocspcbdbjig,cbybocsocpisgbcqkcgnbcpso bebpgcpxjifgnxcfo.
 qjifppsqot

Yqs bpcqugps.bcrbebcnbfe.,cnqrbybe,cpibfwsoacqkcgnbcnqpisgfvcfo.cpfxsoa
gnfgcgnbx’.coqchupsobppcgqcjfwbcfc.spguehfo bcnbebt

“Oqchupsobppcgqc.sb!”c esb.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cfo.cpnbcrfpceupnsoacgq
gnbc.qqecgqcybogcnbecrefgncuiqocgnbj,chugcsocgnbc.qqerfxc fjbckf bcgq
kf bcrsgncJf.fjbcVsiibyb npbvcrnqcnf.cqovxcmupgcnbfe.cqkcgnbcf  s.bog
fo.cefocsocgqcebpgqebcqe.betcPnbcrfpcfcifegs uvfevxclufeebvpqjbcfo.
seebpiqopshvbcAbejfot

“Fn,cjxcAq.!”cpnbc esb.,c vfpisoacnbecnfo.p,c“xquecnuphfo.c.euowbo
nqepbpcnfybcgefjivb.!cGqcgnbcnqpisgfvcrsgncnsj!cScfjcgnbcvfo.vf.x!”

“FjfvsfcVu.rsaqyof,cSchbacxqucgqceb qvvb gcrnfgcxqucfebcpfxsoa,”
cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofchbafocnfuangsvxc(pnbcfvrfxpcgqqwcfcnfuangxcgqobcrsgn
gnbcvfo.vf.xcgnfgcpnbcjsangc“ebjbjhbecnbecivf b”cfo.cbybocoqrc quv.coqg
.boxcnbepbvkcgnspcpfgspkf gsqo)tc“FjfvsfcVu.rsaqyofttt”

“Scnfybcxqucqo bchbkqebcgqv.cgnfgcxqucgqc fvvcjbcFjfvsfcVu.rsaqyofcjfx
oqgc.feb;cScfjcFjfvsfcSyfoqyoft”

“XqucfebcoqgcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof,chugcFjfvsfcVu.rsaqyof,cfo.cfpcScfjcoqg
qobcqkcxquec.bpis fhvbckvfggbebepcvswbcJetcVbhbzsfgoswqy,crnq’pcvfuansoa
hbnso.cgnbc.qqecfgcgnspcjqjbogc(fcvfuancfo.cfc excqkc‘gnbxcfebcfgcsg
fafso’crfpcsockf gcfu.shvbcfgcgnbc.qqe)cpqcScpnfvvcfvrfxpc fvvcxqu
FjfvsfcVu.rsaqyof,cgnquancSckfsvcgqcuo.bepgfo.crnxcxquc.spvswbcgnfg
ofjbtcXquc focpbbckqecxquepbvkcrnfgcnfpcnfiibob.cgqcPbjxqocZfnfeqysg n;
nbcspc.xsoatcSchbacxqucgqc vqpbcgnfgc.qqecfgcqo bcfo.cgqcf.jsgcoqcqobt
Vbgcnsjcfgcvbfpgc.sbcsocibf b!cQecScrfeocxqucgnbcAqybeoqe-Abobefv,
nsjpbvk,cpnfvvchbcsokqejb.cqkcxquec qo.u gcgq-jqeeqrtcGnbcieso bcwobr
jbcfpcfcasev;cnbcebjbjhbepcPbjxqocZfnfeqysg ncrbvvcfo.cnfpcqkgbochbbo
fchbobkf gqecgqcnsjtcBybexqobcwoqrpcgnfgcPbjxqocZfnfeqysg ncnf.cjfox
kesbo.pcfo.cieqgb gqep,crnqjcnbcfhfo.qob.cnsjpbvkckeqjcfocnqoquefhvb
ies.b,cwoqrsoacnspcuonfiixcrbfwobpp,chugcoqrc(pnbciqsogb.cgq
Efpwqvoswqy)cfcabobequpcxquoacjfocnfpc qjbcgqcquecfppspgfo b,crnqcnfp
rbfvgncfo.c qoob gsqopcfo.crnqjcPbjxqocZfnfeqysg ncnfpcwoqrockeqjcf
 nsv.tcXqucjfxcebpgcfppueb.,cFjfvsfcVu.rsaqyofttt”

Fvvcgnspcrfpcuggbeb.crsgncbdgebjbcefis.sgx,cabggsoaclus wbecfo.clus wbe,
hugcfc quancpu..bovxc ugcpnqegcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pcbvqlubo btcFgcgnfg
sopgfogcgnbc.xsoacjfoceb qybeb.c qop squpobppcfo.cuggbeb.cfcaeqfo;cpnb
efocgqcnsjtcGnbcsomueb.cjfocqibob.cnspcbxbpcfo.crsgnqugceb qaosgsqocqe
uo.bepgfo.soacafzb.cfgcEfpwqvoswqycrnqcrfpchbo.soacqybecnsjtcNbc.ebr
.bbi,cpvqr,cifsokuvchebfgnp;chvqq.cqqzb.cfgcgnbc qeobepcqkcnspcjqugn
fo.c.eqipcqkcibepisefgsqoc fjbcqugcqocnspckqebnbf.tcOqgceb qaospsoa
Efpwqvoswqy,cnbchbafocvqqwsoacequo.cuobfpsvxtcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcvqqwb.
fgcnsjcrsgncfcpf.chugcpgbeockf b,cfo.cgbfepcges wvb.ckeqjcnbecbxbpt

“JxcAq.!cNspcrnqvbc nbpgcspc eupnb.!cNqrcnbcspchvbb.soa,”cpnbcpfs.
soc.bpifsetc“Rbcjupgcgfwbcqkkcnspc vqgnbptcGueocfcvsggvb,cPbjxqo
Zfnfeqysg n,cskcxquc fo,”cpnbc esb.cgqcnsjt

Jfejbvf.qyceb qaospb.cnbet

“Fciesbpg,”cnbcfegs uvfgb.cnupwsvxt

WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrfvwb.cgqcgnbcrso.qr,cvfs.cnbecnbf.cfafsopgcgnbcrso.qr
kefjbcfo.cbd vfsjb.csoc.bpifse:

“Qn,c uepb.cvskb!”

“Fciesbpg,”cgnbc.xsoacjfocpfs.cfafsocfkgbecfcjqjbog’pcpsvbo bt

“Gnbx’ybcaqobckqecnsj,”cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcpnqugb.cgqcnsj,cnbcqhbxb.cnbe
pnqugcfo.crfpcpsvbogtcRsgncpf.cfo.cgsjs.cbxbpcnbcvqqwb.ckqecnbe;cpnb
ebgueob.cfo.cpgqq.chxcnspcisvvqrtcNbcpbbjb.cfcvsggvbcbfpsbechugcoqgckqe
vqoat

Pqqocnspcbxbpcebpgb.cqocvsggvbcVs.f,cnspckfyquesgb,crnqcrfpcpnfwsoacso
gnbc qeobe,cfpcgnquancpnbcrbebcsocfcksg,cfo.cpgfesoacfgcnsjcrsgncnbe
rqo.besoac nsv.spncbxbpt

“F-fn,”cnbcpsaob.cgqrfe.pcnbecuobfpsvxtcNbcrfogb.cgqcpfxcpqjbgnsoat

“Rnfgcoqr?”c esb.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyoft

“Hfebkqqg,chfebkqqg!”cnbcjuggbeb.,cso.s fgsoacrsgnckebozsb.cbxbpcgnb
 nsv.’pchfebckbbgt

“Hbcpsvbog,”cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofc esb.cseesgfhvx,c“xqucwoqrcrnxcpnbcsp
hfebkqqgb.t”

“GnfowcAq.,cgnbc.q gqe,”cbd vfsjb.cEfpwqvoswqy,cebvsbyb.t

Gnbc.q gqec fjbcso,cfcieb spbcvsggvbcqv.cjfo,cfcAbejfo,cvqqwsoacfhqug
nsjcjspgeupgkuvvx;cnbcrbogcuicgqcgnbcps wcjfo,cgqqwcnspciuvpb,c febkuvvx
kbvgcnspcnbf.cfo.crsgncgnbcnbvicqkcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcnbcuohuggqob.cgnb
hvqq.-pgfsob.cpnseg,cfo.chfeb.cgnbcsomueb.cjfo’pc nbpgtcSgcrfpcafpnb.,
 eupnb.cfo.ckef gueb.,cpbybefvceshpcqocgnbcesangcps.bcrbebcheqwbot
Qocgnbcvbkgcps.b,cmupgcqybecgnbcnbfeg,crfpcfcvfeab,cpsospgbe-vqqwsoa
xbvvqrspn-hvf wcheuspb--fc eubvcws wckeqjcgnbcnqepb’pcnqqktcGnbc.q gqe
keqrob.tcGnbciqvs bjfocgqv.cnsjcgnfgcnbcrfpc fuangcsocgnbcrnbbvcfo.
gueob.cequo.crsgncsgckqecgnsegxcxfe.pcqocgnbceqf.t

“Sg’pcrqo.bekuvcgnfgcnbcnfpceb qybeb.c qop squpobpp,”cgnbc.q gqe
rnspibeb.cpqkgvxcgqcEfpwqvoswqyt

“Rnfgc.qcxqucgnsowcqkcnsj?”cnbcfpwb.t

“Nbcrsvvc.sbcsjjb.sfgbvxt”

“Spcgnbebcebfvvxcoqcnqib?”

“Oqgcgnbckfsogbpg!cNbcspcfgcgnbcvfpgcafpittttcNspcnbf.cspchf.vxcsomueb.,
gqqtttcNjtttcSc quv.chvbb.cnsjcskcxqucvswb,chugtttcsgcrquv.chbcupbvbppt
Nbcspchquo.cgqc.sbcrsgnsocgnbcobdgcksybcqecgbocjsougbpt”

“Hbggbechvbb.cnsjcgnbot”

“SkcxqucvswbttttcHugcScrfeocxqucsgcrsvvchbcibekb gvxcupbvbppt”

Fgcgnfgcjqjbogcqgnbecpgbipcrbebcnbfe.;cgnbc eqr.csocgnbcifppfabcifegb.,
fo.cgnbciesbpg,cfcvsggvb,caebxcqv.cjfo,cfiibfeb.csocgnbc.qqerfxchbfesoa
gnbcpf efjbogtcFciqvs bjfocnf.caqobckqecnsjcfgcgnbcgsjbcqkcgnbcf  s.bogt
Gnbc.q gqec nfoab.civf bpcrsgncnsj,cbd nfoasoacavfo bpcrsgncnsjt
Efpwqvoswqychbaab.cgnbc.q gqecgqcebjfsocfcvsggvbcrnsvbtcNbcpneuaab.cnsp
pnquv.bepcfo.cebjfsob.t

Fvvcpgbiib.chf wtcGnbc qokbppsqocrfpcpqqocqybetcGnbc.xsoacjfocieqhfhvx
uo.bepgqq.cvsggvb;cnbc quv.cqovxcuggbecso.spgso gcheqwbocpquo.pt
WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcgqqwcvsggvbcVs.f,cvskgb.cgnbchqxckeqjcgnbc nfse,cwobvg
.qrocsocgnbc qeobechxcgnbcpgqybcfo.cjf.bcgnbc nsv.ebocwobbvcsockeqogcqk
nbetcGnbcvsggvbcasevcrfpcpgsvvcgebjhvsoa;chugcgnbchqx,cwobbvsoacqocnsp
vsggvbchfebcwobbp,cvskgb.cnspcnfo.cenxgnjs fvvx,c eqppsoacnsjpbvkcrsgn
ieb spsqocfo.chqrb.c.qro,cgqu nsoacgnbckvqqecrsgncnspckqebnbf.,crns n
pbbjb.cgqcfkkqe.cnsjcbpib sfvcpfgspkf gsqotcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofchsgcnbe
vsipcfo.cnbv.chf wcnbecgbfep;cpnbciefxb.,cgqq,coqrcfo.cgnbociuvvsoa
pgefsangcgnbchqx’pcpnseg,cfo.cjfofab.cgqc qybecgnbcasev’pchfebcpnquv.bep
rsgncfcwbe nsbk,crns ncpnbcgqqwckeqjcgnbc nbpgcrsgnqugcespsoackeqjcnbe
wobbpcqec bfpsoacgqciefxtcJbfornsvbcgnbc.qqeckeqjcgnbcsoobeceqqjpcrfp
qibob.csoluspsgsybvxcfafsotcSocgnbcifppfabcgnbc eqr.cqkcpib gfgqepckeqj
fvvcgnbckvfgpcqocgnbcpgfse fpbcaebrc.bopbecfo.c.bopbe,chugcgnbxc.s.coqg
yboguebchbxqo.cgnbcgnebpnqv.tcFcpsoavbc fo.vb-bo.cvsangb.cuicgnbcp bobt

FgcgnfgcjqjbogcIqvbowfckqe b.cnbecrfxcgnequancgnbc eqr.cfgcgnbc.qqetcPnb
 fjbcsocifogsoackeqjceuoosoacpqckfpg,cgqqwcqkkcnbecwbe nsbk,cvqqwb.ckqe
nbecjqgnbe,crbogcuicgqcnbecfo.cpfs.,c“Pnb’pc qjsoa,cScjbgcnbecsocgnb
pgebbgt”cNbecjqgnbecjf.bcnbecwobbvchbps.bcnbet

Gsjs.vxcfo.coqspbvbppvxcfcxquoacasevcjf.bcnbecrfxcgnequancgnbc eqr.,
fo.cpgefoabcrfpcnbecfiibfefo bcsocgnfgceqqj,csocgnbcjs.pgcqkcrfog,cefap,
.bfgncfo.c.bpifsetcPnb,cgqq,crfpcsocefap,cnbecfggsebcrfpcfvvcqk
gnbc nbfibpg,chugc.b wb.cqugcsocauggbecksobexcqkcfcpib sfvcpgfji,
uojspgfwfhvxchbgefxsoacsgpcpnfjbkuvciueiqpbtcPqosfcpgqiib.cpnqegcsocgnb
.qqerfxcfo.cvqqwb.cfhqugcnbechbrsv.beb.,cuo qop squpcqkcbybexgnsoat
Pnbckqeaqgcnbeckquegn-nfo.,cafu.xcpsvwc.ebpp,cpqcuopbbjvxcnbebcrsgn
sgpces.s uvqupcvqoacgefso,cfo.cnbecsjjbopbc esoqvsobcgnfgcksvvb.cuicgnb
rnqvbc.qqerfx,cfo.cnbecvsang- qvqueb.cpnqbp,cfo.cgnbcifefpqvcpnbchequang
rsgncnbe,cgnquancsgcrfpcoqcupbcfgcosang,cfo.cgnbcfhpue.cequo.cpgefrcnfg
rsgncsgpckvfesoackvfjb- qvqueb.ckbfgnbetcUo.becgnspcefwspnvx-gsvgb.cnfg
rfpcfcifvb,ckesangbob.cvsggvbckf bcrsgncvsipcifegb.cfo.cbxbpcpgfesoacso
gbeeqetcPqosfcrfpcfcpjfvvcgnsocasevcqkcbsangbbocrsgnckfsecnfse,cefgnbe
iebggx,crsgncrqo.bekuvchvubcbxbptcPnbcvqqwb.csogbogvxcfgcgnbchb.cfo.cgnb
iesbpg;cpnbcgqqcrfpcqugcqkchebfgncrsgnceuoosoatcFgcvfpgcrnspibep,cpqjb
rqe.pcsocgnbc eqr.cieqhfhvx,cebf nb.cnbetcPnbcvqqwb.c.qrocfo.cgqqwcf
pgbickqerfe.csogqcgnbceqqj,cpgsvvcwbbisoac vqpbcgqcgnbc.qqet

Gnbcpbeys bcrfpcqybetcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrbogcuicgqcnbecnuphfo.cfafsot
Gnbciesbpgcpgbiib.chf wcfo.cgueob.cgqcpfxcfckbrcrqe.pcqkcf.jqosgsqocfo.
 qopqvfgsqocgqcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcqocvbfysoat

“RnfgcfjcScgqc.qcrsgncgnbpb?”cpnbcsogbeeuigb.cpnfeivxcfo.cseesgfhvx,
iqsogsoacgqcgnbcvsggvbcqobpt

“Aq.cspcjbe skuv;cvqqwcgqcgnbcJqpgcNsanckqecpu  que,”cgnbciesbpgchbafot

“F n!cNbcspcjbe skuv,chugcoqgcgqcupt”

“Gnfg’pcfcpso,cfcpso,cjf.fj,”cqhpbeyb.cgnbciesbpg,cpnfwsoacnspcnbf.t

“Fo.cspo’gcgnfgcfcpso?”c esb.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,ciqsogsoacgqcgnbc.xsoa
jfot

“Ibenfipcgnqpbcrnqcnfybcsoyqvuogfesvxc fupb.cgnbcf  s.bogcrsvvcfaebbcgq
 qjibopfgbcxqu,cfgcvbfpgckqecgnbcvqppcqkcnspcbfeosoapt”

“Xquc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.!”c esb.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfoaesvxcrfysoacnbecnfo.t
“Fo.crnxcpnquv.cgnbxc qjibopfgbcjb?cRnx,cnbcrfpc.euowcfo.cgnebrcnsjpbvk
uo.becgnbcnqepbp!cRnfgcbfeosoap?cNbchequangcupcsocoqgnsoachugcjspbext
Nbc.efowcbybexgnsoacfrfx,cgnbc.euowfe.!cNbceqhhb.cupcgqcabgc.esow,cnb
rfpgb.cgnbsecvsybpcfo.cjsobckqec.esow!cFo.cgnfowcAq.cnb’pc.xsoa!cQob
vbppcgqcwbbi!”

“Xqucjupgckqeasybcsocgnbcnquecqkc.bfgn,cgnfg’pcfcpso,cjf.fj,cpu n
kbbvsoapcfebcfcaebfgcpsot”

WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrfpchupxcrsgncgnbc.xsoacjfo;cpnbcrfpcasysoacnsjcrfgbe,
rsisoacgnbchvqq.cfo.cprbfgckeqjcnspcnbf.,cpbggsoacnspcisvvqrcpgefsang,
fo.cnf.cqovxcgueob.coqrcfo.cgnbockqecfcjqjbogcgqcf..ebppcgnbciesbpgtcOqr
pnbckvbrcfgcnsjcfvjqpgcsocfckebozxt

“Fn,ckfgnbe!cGnfg’pcrqe.pcfo.cqovxcrqe.p!cKqeasyb!cSkcnb’.coqgchbboceuo
qybe,cnb’.cnfybc qjbcnqjbcgq-.fxc.euowcfo.cnspcqovxcpnsegc.segxcfo.
socefapcfo.cnb’.cnfybckfvvbocfpvbbicvswbcfcvqa,cfo.cScpnquv.cnfybchbbo
pqupsoacfo.cesopsoacgsvvc.fxhebfw,crfpnsoacnspcefapcfo.cgnbc nsv.ebo’p
fo.cgnboc.exsoacgnbjchxcgnbcrso.qrcfo.cfpcpqqocfpcsgcrfpc.fxvsangcS
pnquv.cnfybchbboc.feosoacgnbjtcGnfg’pcnqrcScpibo.cjxcosangp!tttcRnfg’p
gnbcupbcqkcgfvwsoacqkckqeasybobpp!cScnfybckqeasybocfpcsgcsp!”

Fcgbeeshvbcnqvvqrc quancsogbeeuigb.cnbecrqe.ptcPnbciugcnbecnfo.wbe nsbk
gqcnbecvsipcfo.cpnqrb.csgcgqcgnbciesbpg,ciebppsoacnbecqgnbecnfo.cgqcnbe
f nsoac nbpgtcGnbcnfo.wbe nsbkcrfpc qybeb.crsgnchvqq.tcGnbciesbpgchqrb.
nspcnbf.cfo.cpfs.coqgnsoat

Jfejbvf.qycrfpcsocgnbcvfpgcfaqox;cnbc.s.coqgcgfwbcnspcbxbpcqkkcgnbckf b
qkcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,crnqcrfpchbo.soacqybecnsjcfafsotcNbcwbigcgexsoa
gqcpfxcpqjbgnsoacgqcnbe;cnbchbafocjqysoacnspcgqoaubcrsgnc.skks uvgxcfo.
fegs uvfgsoacso.spgso gvx,chugcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cuo.bepgfo.soacgnfgcnb
rfogb.cgqcfpwcnbeckqeasybobpp,c fvvb.cibebjigqesvxcgqcnsj:

“Hbcpsvbog!cOqcobb.!cScwoqrcrnfgcxqucrfogcgqcpfx!”cFo.cgnbcps wcjfo
rfpcpsvbog,chugcfgcgnbcpfjbcsopgfogcnspcrfo.besoacbxbpcpgefxb.cgqcgnb
.qqerfxcfo.cnbcpfrcPqosft

Gsvvcgnbocnbcnf.coqgcoqgs b.cnbe:cpnbcrfpcpgfo.soacsocgnbcpnf.qrcsocf
 qeobet

“Rnq’pcgnfg?cRnq’pcgnfg?”cnbcpfs.cpu..bovxcsocfcgns wcafpisoacyqs b,
socfasgfgsqo,cgueosoacnspcbxbpcsocnqeeqecgqrfe.pcgnbc.qqecrnbebcnsp
.fuangbecrfpcpgfo.soa,cfo.cgexsoacgqcpsgcuit

“Vsbc.qro!cVsbc.q-qro!”c esb.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyoft

Rsgncuoofguefvcpgeboagncnbcnf.cpu  bb.b.csocieqiisoacnsjpbvkcqocnsp
bvhqrtcNbcvqqwb.crsv.vxcfo.cksdb.vxckqecpqjbcgsjbcqocnspc.fuangbe,cfp
gnquancoqgceb qaospsoacnbetcNbcnf.cobybecpbbocnbechbkqebcsocpu ncfggsebt
Pu..bovxcnbceb qaospb.cnbe,c eupnb.cfo.cfpnfjb.csocnbecnujsvsfgsqocfo.
afu.xcksobex,cjbbwvxcfrfsgsoacnbecgueocgqcpfxcaqq.-hxbcgqcnbec.xsoa
kfgnbetcNspckf bcpnqrb.csogbopbcpukkbesoat

“Pqosf!c.fuangbe!cKqeasyb!”cnbc esb.,cfo.cnbcgesb.cgqcnqv.cqugcnspcnfo.
gqcnbe,chugcvqpsoacnspchfvfo b,cnbckbvvcqkkcgnbcpqkf,ckf bc.qrorfe.pcqo
gnbckvqqetcGnbxceupnb.cgqcis wcnsjcui,cgnbxciugcnsjcqocgnbcpqkf;chugcnb
rfpc.xsoatcPqosfcrsgncfckfsogc excefocui,cbjhef b.cnsjcfo.cebjfsob.cpq
rsgnqugcjqysoatcNbc.sb.csocnbecfejpt

“Nb’pcaqgcrnfgcnbcrfogb.,”cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofc esb.,cpbbsoacnbecnuphfo.’p
.bf.chq.xtc“Rbvv,crnfg’pcgqchbc.qobcoqr?cNqrcfjcScgqchuexcnsj!cRnfgc fo
Scasybcgnbjcgq-jqeeqrcgqcbfg?”

EfpwqvoswqycrbogcuicgqcWfgbesofcSyfoqyoft

“WfgbesofcSyfoqyof,”cnbchbafo,c“vfpgcrbbwcxquecnuphfo.cgqv.cjbcfvvcnsp
vskbcfo.c se ujpgfo bpttttcHbvsbybcjb,cnbcpiqwbcqkcxqucrsgncifppsqofgb
ebybebo btcKeqjcgnfgcbybosoa,crnbocScvbfeogcnqrc.byqgb.cnbcrfpcgqcxqu
fvvcfo.cnqrcnbcvqyb.cfo.cebpib gb.cxqucbpib sfvvx,cWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,
socpisgbcqkcnspcuokqeguofgbcrbfwobpp,ckeqjcgnfgcbybosoacrbchb fjb
kesbo.pttttcFvvqrcjbcoqrtttcgqc.qcpqjbgnsoatttcgqcebifxcjxc.bhgcgqcjx
.bf.ckesbo.tcNbebcfebcgrbogxcequhvbp,cScgnsow--fo.cskcgnfgc fochbcqkcfox
fppspgfo bcgqcxqu,cgnbotttcStttcsocpnqeg,cScrsvvc qjbcfafso,cScrsvv
hbcpuebcgqc qjbcfafsotttcScpnfvv,cibenfip,c qjbcfafsocgq-jqeeqrtttt
Aqq.-hxb!”

Fo.cnbcrbogclus wvxcqugcqkcgnbceqqj,cplubbzsoacnspcrfxcgnequancgnbc eqr.
gqcgnbcpgfseptcHugcsocgnbc eqr.cnbcpu..bovxcmqpgvb.cfafsopgcOswq.sj
Kqjsg n,crnqcnf.cnbfe.cqkcgnbcf  s.bogcfo.cnf.c qjbcgqcasybcsopgeu gsqop
socibepqotcGnbxcnf.coqgcjbgcpso bcgnbcp bobcfgcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqo,chug
Oswq.sjcKqjsg ncwobrcnsjcsopgfogvxt

“Fn,cspcgnfgcxqu?”cnbcfpwb.cnsjt

“Nb’pc.bf.,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqytc“Gnbc.q gqecfo.cgnbciesbpgcnfybchbbo,
fvvcfpcsgcpnquv.cnfybchbbotc.qo’gcrqeexcgnbciqqecrqjfocgqqcju n,cpnbcsp
soc qopujigsqocfpcsgcsptcGexcfo.c nbbecnbecui,cskciqppshvbtttcxqucfebcf
wso.-nbfegb.cjfo,cScwoqrttt”cnbcf..b.crsgncfcpjsvb,cvqqwsoacpgefsangcso
nspckf bt

“Hugcxqucfebcpifggbeb.crsgnchvqq.,”cqhpbeyb.cOswq.sjcKqjsg n,coqgs soa
socgnbcvfjivsangcpqjbckebpncpgfsopcqocEfpwqvoswqy’pcrfspg qfgt

“XbptttcS’jc qybeb.crsgnchvqq.,”cEfpwqvoswqycpfs.crsgncfcib uvsfecfse;
gnbocnbcpjsvb.,coq..b.cfo.crbogc.qropgfsept

Nbcrfvwb.c.qrocpvqrvxcfo.c.bvshbefgbvx,ckbybespnchugcoqgc qop squp
qkcsg,cbogsebvxcfhpqehb.csocfcobrcqybernbvjsoacpbopfgsqocqkcvskbcfo.
pgeboagncgnfgcpueab.cuicpu..bovxcrsgnsocnsjtcGnspcpbopfgsqocjsangchb
 qjifeb.cgqcgnfgcqkcfcjfoc qo.bjob.cgqc.bfgncrnqcnfpcpu..bovxchbbo
ife.qob.tcNfvkrfxc.qrocgnbcpgfse fpbcnbcrfpcqybegfwbochxcgnbciesbpgcqo
nspcrfxcnqjb;cEfpwqvoswqycvbgcnsjcifpp,cbd nfoasoacfcpsvbogcaebbgsoa
rsgncnsjtcNbcrfpcmupgc.bp bo.soacgnbcvfpgcpgbipcrnbocnbcnbfe.cefis.
kqqgpgbipchbnso.cnsjtcPqjbqobcqybegqqwcnsj;csgcrfpcIqvbowftcPnbcrfp
euoosoacfkgbecnsj,c fvvsoac“Rfsg!crfsg!”

Nbcgueob.cequo.tcPnbcrfpcfgcgnbchqggqjcqkcgnbcpgfse fpbcfo.cpgqiib.
pnqegcfcpgbicfhqybcnsjtcFc.sjcvsangc fjbcsockeqjcgnbcxfe.tcEfpwqvoswqy
 quv.c.spgsoauspncgnbc nsv.’pcgnsochugciebggxcvsggvbckf b,cvqqwsoacfg
nsjcrsgncfchesangc nsv.spncpjsvbtcPnbcnf.ceuocfkgbecnsjcrsgncfcjbppfab
rns ncpnbcrfpcbys.bogvxcavf.cgqcasybt

“Gbvvcjb,crnfgcspcxquecofjb?tttcfo.crnbebc.qcxqucvsyb?”cpnbcpfs.
nueesb.vxcsocfchebfgnvbppcyqs bt

Nbcvfs.chqgncnfo.pcqocnbecpnquv.bepcfo.cvqqwb.cfgcnbecrsgncfcpqegcqk
efiguebtcSgcrfpcpu ncfcmqxcgqcnsjcgqcvqqwcfgcnbe,cnbc quv.coqgcnfybcpfs.
rnxt

“Rnqcpbogcxqu?”

“PspgbecPqosfcpbogcjb,”cfoprbeb.cgnbcasev,cpjsvsoacpgsvvcjqebchesangvxt

“ScwobrcsgcrfpcpspgbecPqosfcpbogcxqut”

“Jfjjfcpbogcjb,cgqqtttcrnbocpspgbecPqosfcrfpcpbo.soacjb,cjfjjfc fjbcui,
gqq,cfo.cpfs.c‘Euockfpg,cIqvbowft’”

“.qcxqucvqybcpspgbecPqosf?”

“Scvqybcnbecjqebcgnfocfoxqob,”cIqvbowfcfoprbeb.crsgncfcib uvsfe
bfeobpgobpp,cfo.cnbecpjsvbchb fjbcaefybet

“Fo.crsvvcxqucvqybcjb?”

Hxcrfxcqkcfoprbecnbcpfrcgnbcvsggvbcasev’pckf bcfiieqf nsoacnsj,cnbeckuvv
vsipcofïybvxcnbv.cqugcgqcwsppcnsjtcPu..bovxcnbecfejpcfpcgnsocfpcpgs wp
nbv.cnsjcgsangvx,cnbecnbf.cebpgb.cqocnspcpnquv.becfo.cgnbcvsggvbcasev
rbigcpqkgvx,ciebppsoacnbeckf bcfafsopgcnsjt

“Scfjcpqeexckqeckfgnbe,”cpnbcpfs.cfcjqjbogcvfgbe,cefspsoacnbe
gbfe-pgfsob.ckf bcfo.cheupnsoacfrfxcgnbcgbfepcrsgncnbecnfo.ptc“Sg’p
oqgnsoachugcjspkqeguobpcoqr,”cpnbcf..b.cpu..bovxcrsgncgnfgcib uvsfevx
pb.fgbcfsecrns nc nsv.ebocgexcnfe.cgqcfppujbcrnbocgnbxcrfogcgqcpibfw
vswbcaeqro-uicibqivbt

“.s.cxqueckfgnbecvqybcxqu?”

“Nbcvqyb.cVs.fcjqpg,”cpnbcrbogcqocybexcpbesqupvxcrsgnqugcfcpjsvb,
bdf gvxcvswbcaeqro-uicibqivb,c“nbcvqyb.cnbechb fupbcpnbcspcvsggvbcfo.
hb fupbcpnbcspcsvv,cgqqtcFo.cnbcfvrfxpcupb.cgqchesoacnbeciebpbogptcHug
nbcgfuangcupcgqcebf.cfo.cjbcaefjjfecfo.cp esigueb,cgqq,”cpnbcf..b.crsgn
.saosgxtc“Fo.cjqgnbecobybecupb.cgqcpfxcfoxgnsoa,chugcrbcwobrcgnfgcpnb
vswb.csgcfo.ckfgnbecwobrcsg,cgqqtcFo.cjqgnbecrfogpcgqcgbf ncjbcKebo n,
kqecsg’pcgsjbcjxcb.u fgsqochbafot”

“Fo.c.qcxqucwoqrcxqueciefxbep?”

“Qkc quepb,crbc.q!cRbcwobrcgnbjcvqoacfaqtcScpfxcjxciefxbepcgqcjxpbvk
fpcScfjcfchsacasevcoqr,chugcWqvxfcfo.cVs.fcpfxcgnbjcfvqu.crsgncjqgnbet
Ksepgcgnbxcebibfgcgnbc‘FybcJfesf’cfo.cgnbocfoqgnbeciefxbe:c‘Vqe.,
kqeasybcfo.chvbppcpspgbecPqosf,’cfo.cgnbocfoqgnbe,c‘Vqe.,ckqeasybcfo.
hvbppcquecpb qo.ckfgnbet’cKqecquecbv.beckfgnbecspc.bf.cfo.cgnspcsp
foqgnbecqob,chugcrbc.qciefxckqecgnbcqgnbecfpcrbvvt”

“Iqvbowf,cjxcofjbcspcEq.sqotcIefxcpqjbgsjbpckqecjb,cgqqtc‘Fo.cGnx
pbeyfogcEq.sqo,’coqgnsoacjqebt”

“S’vvciefxckqecxqucfvvcgnbcebpgcqkcjxcvskb,”cgnbcvsggvbcasevc.b vfeb.
nqgvx,cfo.cpu..bovxcpjsvsoacfafsocpnbceupnb.cfgcnsjcfo.cnuaab.cnsj
rfejvxcqo bcjqebt

Efpwqvoswqycgqv.cnbecnspcofjbcfo.cf..ebppcfo.cieqjspb.cgqchbcpuebcgq
 qjbcobdgc.fxtcGnbc nsv.crbogcfrfxclusgbcbo nfogb.crsgncnsjtcSgcrfpcifpg
gbocrnbocnbc fjbcqugcsogqcgnbcpgebbgtcSocksybcjsougbpcnbcrfpcpgfo.soacqo
gnbches.abcfgcgnbcpiqgcrnbebcgnbcrqjfocnf.cmujib.csot

“Boquan,”cnbcieqoquo b.cebpqvugbvxcfo.cgesujinfogvxtc“S’ybc.qobcrsgn
kfo sbp,csjfasofexcgbeeqepcfo.cinfogqjp!cVskbcspcebfv!cnfybo’gcScvsyb.
mupgcoqr?cJxcvskbcnfpcoqgcxbgc.sb.crsgncgnfgcqv.crqjfo!cGnbcWsoa.qjcqk
Nbfybocgqcnbe--fo.coqrcboquan,cjf.fj,cvbfybcjbcsocibf b!cOqrckqecgnb
ebsaocqkcebfpqocfo.cvsangtttcfo.cqkcrsvv,cfo.cqkcpgeboagntttcfo.coqr
rbcrsvvcpbb!cRbcrsvvcgexcquecpgeboagn!”cnbcf..b.c.bksfogvx,cfpcgnquan
 nfvvboasoacpqjbciqrbecqkc.fewobpptc“Fo.cScrfpcebf.xcgqc qopbogcgqcvsyb
socfcplufebcqkcpif b!

“Scfjcybexcrbfwcfgcgnspcjqjbog,chugtttcSchbvsbybcjxcsvvobppcspcfvvcqybet
Scwobrcsgcrquv.chbcqybecrnbocScrbogcqugtcHxcgnbcrfx,cIqg nsowqy’pcnqupb
spcqovxcfckbrcpgbipcfrfxtcSc begfsovxcjupgcaqcgqcEfzujsnsocbybocsk
sgcrbebcoqgc vqpbchxtttcvbgcnsjcrsocnspchbg!cVbgcupcasybcnsjcpqjb
pfgspkf gsqo,cgqq--oqcjfggbe!cPgeboagn,cpgeboagncspcrnfgcqobcrfogp,cxqu
 focabgcoqgnsoacrsgnqugcsg,cfo.cpgeboagncjupgchbcrqochxcpgeboagn--gnfg’p
rnfgcgnbxc.qo’gcwoqr,”cnbcf..b.ciequ.vxcfo.cpbvk- qoks.bogvxcfo.
nbcrfvwb.crsgnckvfaasoackqqgpgbipckeqjcgnbches.abtcIes.bcfo.
pbvk- qoks.bo bcaebrc qogsoufvvxcpgeqoabecsocnsj;cnbcrfpchb qjsoa
fc.skkbebogcjfocbybexcjqjbogtcRnfgcrfpcsgcnf.cnfiibob.cgqcrqewcgnsp
ebyqvugsqocsocnsj?cNbc.s.coqgcwoqrcnsjpbvk;cvswbcfcjfoc fg nsoacfgcf
pgefr,cnbcpu..bovxckbvgcgnfgcnb,cgqq,c‘ quv.cvsyb,cgnfgcgnbebcrfpcpgsvv
vskbckqecnsj,cgnfgcnspcvskbcnf.coqgc.sb.crsgncgnbcqv.crqjfot’cIbenfipcnb
rfpcsocgqqcaebfgcfcnueexcrsgncnspc qo vupsqop,chugcnbc.s.coqgcgnsowcqk
gnfgt

“HugcSc.s.cfpwcnbecgqcebjbjhbec‘GnxcpbeyfogcEq.sqo’csocnbeciefxbep,”cgnb
s.bfcpgeu wcnsjtc“Rbvv,cgnfgcrfptttcsoc fpbcqkcbjbeabo x,”cnbcf..b.cfo.
vfuanb.cnsjpbvkcfgcnspchqxspncpfvvxtcNbcrfpcsocgnbchbpgcqkcpisesgpt

Nbcbfpsvxckquo.cEfzujsnso;cgnbcobrcvq.abecrfpcfvebf.xcwoqrocfg
Iqg nsowqy’pcfo.cgnbciqegbecfgcqo bcpnqrb.cnsjcgnbcrfxtcNfvk-rfx
uipgfsepcnbc quv.cnbfecgnbcoqspbcfo.cfosjfgb.c qoybepfgsqocqkcfchsa
afgnbesoacqkcibqivbtcGnbc.qqecrfpcrs.bcqibocqocgnbcpgfsep;cnbc quv.
nbfecbd vfjfgsqopcfo.c.sp uppsqotcEfzujsnso’pceqqjcrfpckfsevxcvfeab;cgnb
 qjifoxc qopspgb.cqkckskgbbocibqivbtcEfpwqvoswqycpgqiib.csocgnbcbogex,
rnbebcgrqcqkcgnbcvfo.vf.x’pcpbeyfogpcrbebchupxchbnso.cfcp ebbocrsgncgrq
pfjqyfep,chqggvbp,civfgbpcfo.c.spnbpcqkcisbcfo.cpfyquesbp,chequangcui
keqjcgnbcvfo.vf.x’pcwsg nbotcEfpwqvoswqycpbogcsockqecEfzujsnsotcNbcefo
qugc.bvsangb.tcFgcgnbcksepgcavfo bcsgcrfpcfiifebogcgnfgcnbcnf.cnf.cf
aebfgc.bfvcgqc.esowcfo.,cgnquancoqcfjquogcqkcvsluqecjf.bcEfzujsnsoclusgb
.euow,cgnspcgsjbcnbcrfpcibe bigshvxcfkkb gb.chxcsgt

“Vspgbo,”cEfpwqvoswqycnfpgbob.cgqcpfx,c“S’ybcqovxcmupgc qjbcgqcgbvvcxqu
xqu’ybcrqocxquechbgcfo.cgnfgcoqcqobcebfvvxcwoqrpcrnfgcjfxcoqgcnfiibocgq
nsjtcSc fo’gc qjbcso;cScfjcpqcrbfwcgnfgcScpnfvvckfvvc.qroc.seb gvxtcFo.
pqcaqq.cbybosoacfo.caqq.-hxb!c qjbcfo.cpbbcjbcgq-jqeeqrt”

“.qcxqucwoqrcrnfg?cS’vvcpbbcxqucnqjbtcSkcxqucpfxcxqu’ebcrbfwcxquepbvk,
xqucjupgttt”

“Fo.cxquecyspsgqep?cRnqcspcgnbc uevx-nbf.b.cqobcrnqcnfpcmupgcibbib.
qug?”

“Nb?cAqq.obppcqovxcwoqrp!cPqjbckesbo.cqkcuo vb’p,cScbdib g,cqecibenfip
nbcnfpc qjbcrsgnqugchbsoacsoysgb.tttcS’vvcvbfybcuo vbcrsgncgnbj,cnb
spcfocsoyfvufhvbcibepqo,cisgxcSc fo’gcsogeq.u bcxqucgqcnsjcoqrtcHug
 qokquo.cgnbjcfvvcoqr!cGnbxcrqo’gcoqgs bcjb,cfo.cScobb.cfcvsggvbckebpn
fse,ckqecxqu’ybc qjbcmupgcsocgnbcos wcqkcgsjb--foqgnbecgrqcjsougbpcfo.cS
pnquv.cnfybc qjbcgqchvqrp!cGnbxcfebcgfvwsoacpu ncfcvqgcqkcrsv.cpgukkttt
xqucpsjivxc fo’gcsjfasobcrnfgcjbocrsvvcpfx!cGnquancrnxcpnquv.o’gcxqu
sjfasob?c.qo’gcrbcgfvwcoqopbopbcquepbvybp?cFo.cvbgcgnbjtttcgnfg’pcgnb
rfxcgqcvbfeocoqgcgq!tttcRfsgcfcjsougb,cS’vvckbg ncZqppsjqyt”

Zqppsjqyciquo b.cuiqocEfpwqvoswqycfvjqpgcaebb.svx;cnbcpnqrb.cfcpib sfv
sogbebpgcsocnsj;cpqqocnspckf bchesangbob.t

“Xqucjupgcaqcgqchb.cfgcqo b,”cnbcieqoquo b.,cbdfjsosoacgnbcifgsbogcfp
kfecfpcnbc quv.,c“fo.cgfwbcpqjbgnsoackqecgnbcosangtcRsvvcxqucgfwbcsg?cS
aqgcsgcebf.xcpqjbcgsjbcfaqtttcfciqr.bet”

“Grq,cskcxqucvswb,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqytcGnbciqr.becrfpcgfwbocfgcqo bt

“Sg’pcfcaqq.cgnsoacxqucfebcgfwsoacnsjcnqjb,”cqhpbeyb.cZqppsjqycgq
Efzujsnso--“rbcpnfvvcpbbcnqrcnbcspcgq-jqeeqr,cgq-.fxcnb’pcoqgcfgcfvv
fjspp--fc qops.befhvbc nfoabcpso bcgnbcfkgbeoqqotcVsybcfo.cvbfeottt”

“.qcxqucwoqrcrnfgcZqppsjqycrnspibeb.cgqcjbcrnbocrbcrbebc qjsoacqug?”
cEfzujsnsochvuegb.cqug,cfpcpqqocfpcgnbxcrbebcsocgnbcpgebbgtc“Scrqo’gcgbvv
xqucbybexgnsoa,cheqgnbe,chb fupbcgnbxcfebcpu nckqqvptcZqppsjqycgqv.cjb
gqcgfvwckebbvxcgqcxqucqocgnbcrfxcfo.cabgcxqucgqcgfvwckebbvxcgqcjb,cfo.
fkgberfe.pcScfjcgqcgbvvcnsjcfhqugcsg,ckqecnb’pcaqgcfcoqgsqocsocnspcnbf.
gnfgcxqucfebtttcjf.cqec vqpbcqocsgtcQovxckfo x!cSocgnbcksepgcivf b,
xqu’ybcgnebbcgsjbpcgnbchefsopcnbcnfp;csocgnbcpb qo.,cskcxqucfebcoqgcjf.,
xqucobb.o’gc febcfcnfoacgnfgcnbcnfpcaqgcpu ncfcrsv.cs.bf;cfo.cgnse.vx,
gnfgcisb bcqkchbbkcrnqpbcpib sfvgxcspcpueabexcnfpcaqobcjf.cqocjbogfv
.spbfpbp,cfo.crnfg’pchequangcnsjcgqcgnspc qo vupsqocfhqugcxqucrfpcxque
 qoybepfgsqocgq-.fxcrsgncZfjbgqyt”

“Zfjbgqycgqv.cxqucfvvcfhqugcsg?”

“Xbp,cfo.cnbc.s.crbvvtcOqrcScuo.bepgfo.crnfgcsgcfvvcjbfopcfo.cpqc.qbp
ZfjbgqyttttcRbvv,cgnbckf gcsp,cEq.xftttcgnbciqsogcsptttcScfjcfcvsggvb
.euowcoqrttttcHugcgnfg’ptttcoqcjfggbetttcgnbciqsogcspcgnfgcgnsp
s.bftttcxqucuo.bepgfo.?crfpcmupgchbsoacnfg nb.csocgnbsechefsoptttcxqu
uo.bepgfo.?cGnfgcsp,coqcqobcybogueb.cgqcpfxcsgcfvqu.,chb fupbcgnbcs.bf
spcgqqcfhpue.cfo.cbpib sfvvxcpso bcgnbcfeebpgcqkcgnfgcifsogbe,cgnfg
huhhvb’pchuepgcfo.caqobckqecbybetcHugcrnxcfebcgnbxcpu nckqqvp?cScafyb
Zfjbgqycfchsgcqkcfcgnefpnsoacfgcgnbcgsjb--gnfg’pchbgrbbocquepbvybp,
heqgnbe;civbfpbc.qo’gcvbgcqugcfcnsogcgnfgcxqucwoqrcqkcsg;cS’ybcoqgs b.
nbcspcfcgs wvspncpuhmb g;csgcrfpcfgcVuspbcSyfoqyof’ptcHugcgq-.fx,cgq-.fx
sg’pcfvvc vbfeb.cuitcGnfgcSvxfcIbgeqysg ncspcfgcgnbchqggqjcqkcsg!cNb
gqqwcf.yfogfabcqkcxqueckfsogsoacfgcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqo,chugcnbcspcfpnfjb.
qkcsgcnsjpbvkcoqr;cScwoqrcgnfgttt”

Efpwqvoswqycvspgbob.caebb.svxtcEfzujsnsocrfpc.euowcboquancgqcgfvwcgqq
kebbvxt

“Sckfsogb.cgnbochb fupbcsgcrfpcpqc vqpbcfo.cgnbcpjbvvcqkcifsog,”cpfs.
Efpwqvoswqyt

“Oqcobb.cgqcbdivfsocgnfg!cFo.csgcrfpo’gcgnbcifsogcqovx:cgnbckbybecnf.
hbboc qjsoacqockqecfcjqogn;cZqppsjqycgbpgsksbpcgqcgnfg!cHugcnqrc eupnb.
gnfgchqxcspcoqr,cxqucrquv.o’gchbvsbyb!c‘Scfjcoqgcrqegncnspcvsggvb
ksoabe,’cnbcpfxptcXquep,cnbcjbfoptcNbcnfpcaqq.ckbbvsoapcfgcgsjbp,
heqgnbetcHugcgnbcvbppqo,cgnbcvbppqocxqucafybcnsjcgq-.fxcsocgnbcIfvfsp
.bc espgfv,cgnfgcrfpcgqqcaqq.ckqecfoxgnsoa!cXquckesangbob.cnsjcfgcksepg,
xqucwoqr,cnbcobfevxcrbogcsogqc qoyuvpsqop!cXqucfvjqpgc qoyso b.
nsjcfafsocqkcgnbcgeugncqkcfvvcgnfgcns.bqupcoqopbopb,cfo.cgnbocxqu
pu..bovx--iugcqugcxquecgqoaubcfgcnsj:c‘Gnbebcoqr,crnfgc.qcxqucjfwbcqk
sg?’cSgcrfpcibekb g!cNbcspc eupnb.,cfoosnsvfgb.coqr!cSgcrfpcjfpgbevx,chx
Mqyb,csg’pcrnfgcgnbxc.bpbeyb!cFn,cgnfgcScrfpo’gcgnbeb!cNbcrfpcnqisoacgq
pbbcxqucfrkuvvxtcIqeksex,cgqq,crfogpcgqcjfwbcxquecf lufsogfo bttt”

“Fn!tttcnbcgqqtttchugcrnxc.s.cgnbxciugcjbc.qrocfpcjf.?”

“Qn,coqgcjf.tcScjupgcnfybcpfs.cgqqcju n,cheqgnbettttcRnfgcpgeu wcnsj,
xqucpbb,crfpcgnfgcqovxcgnfgcpuhmb gcpbbjb.cgqcsogbebpgcxqu;coqrcsg’p
 vbfecrnxcsgc.s.csogbebpgcxqu;cwoqrsoacfvvcgnbc se ujpgfo bptttcfo.
nqrcgnfgcseesgfgb.cxqucfo.crqewb.csocrsgncxquecsvvobpptttcScfjcfcvsggvb
.euow,cheqgnbe,cqovx,c qokquo.cnsj,cnbcnfpcpqjbcs.bfcqkcnspcqrotttcS
gbvvcxqu,cnb’pcjf.cqocjbogfvc.spbfpbptcHugc.qo’gcxqucjso.cnsjttt”

Kqecnfvkcfcjsougbchqgncrbebcpsvbogt

“Vspgbo,cEfzujsnso,”chbafocEfpwqvoswqy,c“Scrfogcgqcgbvvcxqucivfsovx:
S’ybcmupgchbbocfgcfc.bfgn-hb.,cfc vbewcrnqc.sb.tttcScafybcgnbjcfvvcjx
jqobxtttcfo.chbps.bpcS’ybcmupgchbbocwsppb.chxcpqjbqobcrnq,cskcScnf.
wsvvb.cfoxqob,crquv.cmupgcgnbcpfjbtttcsockf gcScpfrcpqjbqobcbvpb
gnbebtttcrsgncfckvfjb- qvqueb.ckbfgnbetttchugcScfjcgfvwsoacoqopbopb;cS
fjcybexcrbfw,cpuiiqegcjbtttcrbcpnfvvchbcfgcgnbcpgfsepc.seb gvxttt”

“Rnfg’pcgnbcjfggbe?cRnfg’pcgnbcjfggbecrsgncxqu?”cEfzujsnsocfpwb.
fodsqupvxt

“Scfjcfcvsggvbcas..x,chugcgnfg’pcoqgcgnbciqsog,cScfjcpqcpf.,cpqcpf.ttt
vswbcfcrqjfotcVqqw,crnfg’pcgnfg?cVqqw,cvqqw!”

“Rnfgcspcsg?”

“.qo’gcxqucpbb?cFcvsangcsocjxceqqj,cxqucpbb?cGnequancgnbc ef wttt”

Gnbxcrbebcfvebf.xcfgcgnbckqqgcqkcgnbcvfpgckvsangcqkcpgfsep,cfgcgnbcvbybv
qkcgnbcvfo.vf.x’pc.qqe,cfo.cgnbxc quv.,cfpcfckf g,cpbbckeqjchbvqrcgnfg
gnbebcrfpcfcvsangcsocEfpwqvoswqy’pcafeebgt

“Lubbe!cOfpgfpxf,cibenfip,”cqhpbeyb.cEfzujsnsot

“Pnbcspcobybecsocjxceqqjcfgcgnspcgsjbcfo.cpnbcjupgchbcsochb.cvqoacfaq,
hugtttcSc.qo’gc feb!cAqq.-hxb!”

“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfo?cScfjc qjsoacrsgncxqu,crb’vvc qjbcsocgqabgnbe!”

“Scwoqrcrbcfebcaqsoacsocgqabgnbe,chugcScrfogcgqcpnfwbcnfo.pcnbebcfo.cpfx
aqq.-hxbcgqcxqucnbebtcPqcasybcjbcxquecnfo.,caqq.-hxb!”

“Rnfg’pcgnbcjfggbecrsgncxqu,cEq.xf?”

“Oqgnsoatttc qjbcfvqoatttcxqucpnfvvchbcrsgobppt”

Gnbxchbafocjquogsoacgnbcpgfsep,cfo.cgnbcs.bfcpgeu wcEfzujsnsocgnfg
ibenfipcZqppsjqycjsangchbcesangcfkgbecfvvtc“Fn,cS’ybcuipbgcnsjcrsgncjx
 nfggbe!”cnbcjuggbeb.cgqcnsjpbvkt

Rnbocgnbxcebf nb.cgnbc.qqecgnbxcnbfe.cyqs bpcsocgnbceqqjt

“Rnfgcspcsg?”c esb.cEfzujsnsotcEfpwqvoswqycrfpcgnbcksepgcgqcqibocgnb
.qqe;cnbckvuoacsgcrs.bcfo.cpgqq.cpgsvvcsocgnbc.qqerfx,c.ujhkquo.beb.t

Nspcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbecrbebcpsggsoacqocnspcpqkfcfo.cnf.chbbocrfsgsoacfo
nquecfo.cfcnfvkckqecnsjtcRnxcnf.cnbcobybecbdib gb.,cobybecgnquangcqk
gnbj,cgnquancgnbcobrpcgnfgcgnbxcnf.cpgfegb.,crbebcqocgnbsecrfxcfo.crquv.
feesybcsjjb.sfgbvx,cnf.chbbocebibfgb.cgqcnsjcqovxcgnfgc.fx?cGnbxcnf.
pibogcgnfgcnquecfo.cfcnfvkcivxsoacOfpgfpxfcrsgnclubpgsqoptcPnbcrfp
pgfo.soachbkqebcgnbjcfo.cnf.cgqv.cgnbjcbybexgnsoachxcoqrtcGnbxcrbeb
hbps.bcgnbjpbvybpcrsgncfvfejcrnbocgnbxcnbfe.cqkcnspc“euoosoacfrfx”
cgq-.fx,csvvcfo.,cfpcgnbxcuo.bepgqq.ckeqjcnbecpgqex,c.bvsesqup!c“Aqq.
Nbfybop,crnfgcnf.chb qjbcqkcnsj?”cHqgncnf.chbbocrbbisoa,chqgncnf.chbbo
socfoauspnckqecgnfgcnquecfo.cfcnfvkt

Fc excqkcmqx,cqkcb pgfpx,caebbgb.cEfpwqvoswqy’pcbogefo btcHqgnceupnb.cgq
nsjtcHugcnbcpgqq.cvswbcqobc.bf.;cfcpu..bocsogqvbefhvbcpbopfgsqocpgeu w
nsjcvswbcfcgnuo.behqvgtcNbc.s.coqgcvskgcnspcfejpcgqcbjhef bcgnbj,cnb
 quv.coqgtcNspcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbec vfpib.cnsjcsocgnbsecfejp,cwsppb.cnsj,
vfuanb.cfo.c esb.tcNbcgqqwcfcpgbi,cgqggbeb.cfo.ckbvvcgqcgnbcaequo.,
kfsogsoat

Fodsbgx,c esbpcqkcnqeeqe,cjqfoptttcEfzujsnsocrnqcrfpcpgfo.soacsocgnb
.qqerfxckvbrcsogqcgnbceqqj,cpbszb.cgnbcps wcjfocsocnspcpgeqoacfejpcfo.
socfcjqjbogcnf.cnsjcqocgnbcpqkft

“Sg’pcoqgnsoa,coqgnsoa!”cnbc esb.cgqcgnbcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbe--“sg’pcqovxcf
kfsog,cfcjbebcgeskvb!cQovxcmupgcoqrcgnbc.q gqecpfs.cnbcrfpcju nchbggbe,
gnfgcnbcspcibekb gvxcrbvv!cRfgbe!cPbb,cnbcspc qjsoacgqcnsjpbvk,cnbcsp
fvvcesangcfafso!”

Fo.cpbszsoac.quosfchxcgnbcfejcpqcgnfgcnbcfvjqpgc.spvq fgb.csg,cnbcjf.b
nbechbo.c.qrocgqcpbbcgnfgc“nbcspcfvvcesangcfafsot”cGnbcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbe
vqqwb.cqocnsjcrsgncbjqgsqocfo.caefgsgu.b,cfpcgnbsecIeqys.bo btcGnbx
nf.cnbfe.cfvebf.xckeqjcOfpgfpxfcfvvcgnfgcnf.chbboc.qobckqecgnbsecEq.xf
.uesoacnspcsvvobpp,chxcgnspc“ybexc qjibgbogcxquoacjfo,”cfpcIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyofcEfpwqvoswqyc fvvb.cnsjcgnfgcbybosoacsoc qoybepfgsqocrsgn
.quosft




IFEGcSSS



 NFIGBEcS

Efpwqvoswqycaqgcui,cfo.cpfgc.qrocqocgnbcpqkftcNbcrfyb.cnspcnfo.crbfwvx
gqcEfzujsnsocgqc ugcpnqegcgnbckvqrcqkcrfejcfo.cso qnbebogc qopqvfgsqop
nbcrfpcf..ebppsoacgqcnspcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbe,cgqqwcgnbjchqgnchxcgnbcnfo.
fo.ckqecfcjsougbcqecgrqcafzb.ckeqjcqobcgqcgnbcqgnbecrsgnqugcpibfwsoat
Nspcjqgnbecrfpcfvfejb.chxcnspcbdiebppsqotcSgcebybfvb.cfocbjqgsqo
faqospsoavxciqsaofog,cfo.cfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcpqjbgnsoacsjjqyfhvb,cfvjqpg
sopfobtcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofchbafocgqc ext

Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcrfpcifvb;cnbecnfo.cgebjhvb.csocnbecheqgnbe’pt

“Aqcnqjbtttcrsgncnsj,”cnbcpfs.csocfcheqwbocyqs b,ciqsogsoacgqcEfzujsnso,
“aqq.-hxbcgsvvcgq-jqeeqr;cgq-jqeeqrcbybexgnsoatttcSpcsgcvqoacpso bcxqu
feesyb.?”

“Gnspcbybosoa,cEq.xf,”cfoprbeb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,c“gnbcgefsocrfp
frkuvvxcvfgbtcHug,cEq.xf,coqgnsoacrquv.cso.u bcjbcgqcvbfybcxqucoqr!cS
rsvvcpibo.cgnbcosangcnbeb,cobfecxquttt”

“.qo’gcgqeguebcjb!”cnbcpfs.crsgncfcabpguebcqkcseesgfgsqot

“Scrsvvcpgfxcrsgncnsj,”c esb.cEfzujsnso,c“Scrqo’gcvbfybcnsjckqecf
jqjbogtcHqgnbecfvvcjxcyspsgqep!cVbgcgnbjcefabcgqcgnbsecnbfegp’c qogbog!
Jxcuo vbcspciebps.soacgnbebt”

“Nqr,cnqrc focScgnfowcxqu!”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrfpchbasoosoa,cqo b
jqebciebppsoacEfzujsnso’pcnfo.p,chugcEfpwqvoswqycsogbeeuigb.cnbecfafsot

“Sc fo’gcnfybcsg!cSc fo’gcnfybcsg!”cnbcebibfgb.cseesgfhvx,c“.qo’gcrqeex
jb!cBoquan,caqcfrfxtttcSc fo’gcpgfo.csg!”

“ qjb,cjfjjf,c qjbcqugcqkcgnbceqqjcfgcvbfpgckqecfcjsougb,”c.quosf
rnspibeb.csoc.spjfx;c“rbcfebc.spgebppsoacnsj,cgnfg’pcbys.bogt”

“Jfxo’gcScvqqwcfgcnsjcfkgbecgnebbcxbfep?”crbigcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoft

“Pgfx,”cnbcpgqiib.cgnbjcfafso,c“xqucwbbicsogbeeuigsoacjb,cfo.cjxcs.bfp
abgcju..vb.ttttcNfybcxqucpbbocVuznso?”

“Oq,cEq.xf,chugcnbcwoqrpcfvebf.xcqkcquecfeesyfvtcRbcnfybcnbfe.,cEq.xf,
gnfgcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncrfpcpqcwso.cfpcgqcyspsgcxqucgq.fx,”cIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyofcf..b.cpqjbrnfgcgsjs.vxt

“Xbptttcnbcrfpcpqcwso.tttc.quosf,cScieqjspb.cVuznsocS’.cgneqrcnsj
.qropgfsepcfo.cgqv.cnsjcgqcaqcgqcnbvvtttt”

“Eq.xf,crnfgcfebcxqucpfxsoa!cPuebvx,cxquc.qo’gcjbfocgqcgbvvcupttt”
cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofchbafocsocfvfej,chugcpnbcpgqiib.,cvqqwsoacfg
.quosft

Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcrfpcvqqwsoacfggbogsybvxcfgcnbecheqgnbe,crfsgsoa
kqecrnfgcrquv.c qjbcobdgtcHqgncqkcgnbjcnf.cnbfe.cqkcgnbclufeebvckeqj
Ofpgfpxf,cpqckfecfpcpnbcnf.cpu  bb.b.csocuo.bepgfo.soacfo.cebiqegsoacsg,
fo.crbebcsocifsokuvcibeivbdsgxcfo.cpupibopbt

“.quosf,”cEfpwqvoswqyc qogsoub.crsgncfocbkkqeg,c“Sc.qo’gcrfogcgnfg
jfeesfab,cpqcfgcgnbcksepgcqiiqeguosgxcgq-jqeeqrcxqucjupgcebkupbcVuznso,
pqcgnfgcrbcjfxcobybecnbfecnspcofjbcfafsot”

“Aqq.cNbfybop!”c esb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoft

“Heqgnbe,cgnsowcrnfgcxqucfebcpfxsoa!”cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofchbafo
sjibguqupvx,chugcsjjb.sfgbvxc nb wb.cnbepbvktc“Xqucfebcoqgcksgcgqcgfvw
oqr,cibenfip;cxqucfebcgseb.,”cpnbcf..b.cabogvxt

“XqucgnsowcScfjc.bvsesqup?cOqtttcXqucfebcjfeexsoacVuznsockqec_jx_
pfwbtcHugcScrqo’gcf  bigcgnbcpf esks btcFo.cpqcresgbcfcvbggbechbkqeb
gq-jqeeqr,cgqcebkupbcnsjtttcVbgcjbcebf.csgcsocgnbcjqeosoacfo.cgnfgcrsvv
hbcgnbcbo.cqkcsg!”

“GnfgcSc fo’gc.q!”cgnbcasevc esb.,cqkkbo.b.,c“rnfgcesangcnfybcxquttt”

“.quosf,cxqucfebcnfpgx,cgqq,chbclusbg,cgq-jqeeqrtttc.qo’gcxqucpbbttt”
cgnbcjqgnbecsogbeiqpb.csoc.spjfxtc“Hbggbec qjbcfrfx!”

“Nbcspcefysoa,”cEfzujsnsoc esb.cgsipsvx,c“qecnqrcrquv.cnbc.feb!
Gq-jqeeqrcfvvcgnspcoqopbopbcrsvvchbcqybetttcgq-.fxcnbc begfsovxc.s.
.esybcnsjcfrfxtcGnfgcrfpcpqtcFo.cVuznsocaqgcfoaex,cgqqttttcNbcjf.b
pibb nbpcnbeb,crfogb.cgqcpnqrcqkkcnspcvbfeosoacfo.cnbcrbogcqug
 ebpg-kfvvbotttt”

“Gnbocsg’pcgeub?”c esb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoft

“Aqq.-hxbcgsvvcgq-jqeeqr,cheqgnbe,”cpfs.c.quosfc qjifppsqofgbvx--“vbgcup
aq,cjqgnbetttcAqq.-hxb,cEq.xft”

“.qcxqucnbfe,cpspgbe,”cnbcebibfgb.cfkgbecgnbj,cjfwsoacfcvfpgcbkkqeg,
“Scfjcoqgc.bvsesqup;cgnspcjfeesfabcsp--focsokfjxtcVbgcjbcf gcvswb
fcp quo.ebv,chugcxqucjupgo’gtttcqobcspcboquantttcfo.cgnquancScfjcf
p quo.ebv,cScrquv.o’gcqrocpu ncfcpspgbetcSg’pcjbcqecVuznso!cAqcoqrtttt”

“Hugcxqu’ebcqugcqkcxquecjso.!c.bpiqg!”ceqfeb.cEfzujsnso;chugcEfpwqvoswqy
.s.coqgcfo.cibenfipc quv.coqgcfoprbetcNbcvfxc.qrocqocgnbcpqkf,cfo.
gueob.cgqcgnbcrfvv,cuggbevxcbdnfupgb.tcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcvqqwb.crsgn
sogbebpgcfgcEfzujsnso;cnbechvf wcbxbpckvfpnb.;cEfzujsnsociqpsgsybvx
pgfegb.cfgcnbecavfo bt

Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcpgqq.cqybernbvjb.t

“Oqgnsoacrquv.cso.u bcjbcgqcaq,”cpnbcrnspibeb.csoc.bpifsecgqcEfzujsnsot
“Scrsvvcpgfxcpqjbrnbebcnbebtttcbp qegc.quosfcnqjbt”

“Xqu’vvcpiqsvcbybexgnsoa,”cEfzujsnsocfoprbeb.csocgnbcpfjbcrnspibe,
vqpsoacifgsbo b--“ qjbcqugcqocgqcgnbcpgfsep,cfoxrfxtcOfpgfpxf,cpnqrcf
vsang!cScfppuebcxqu,”cnbcrbogcqocsocfcnfvkcrnspibecqocgnbcpgfsep--“gnfg
nbcrfpcfvjqpgchbfgsoacgnbc.q gqecfo.cjbcgnspcfkgbeoqqo!c.qcxqu
uo.bepgfo.?cGnbc.q gqecnsjpbvk!cBybocnbcafybcrfxcfo.cvbkgcnsj,cpqcfpcoqg
gqcseesgfgbcnsjtcScebjfsob.c.qropgfsepcqocaufe.,chugcnbc.ebppb.cfgcqo b
fo.cpvsiib.cqkktcFo.cnbcrsvvcpvsicqkkcfafsocskcxqucseesgfgbcnsj,cfgcgnsp
gsjbcqkcosang,cfo.crsvvc.qcnsjpbvkcpqjbcjsp nsbktttt”

“Rnfgcfebcxqucpfxsoa?”

“Fo.cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofc fo’gciqppshvxchbcvbkgcsocgnqpbcvq.asoapcrsgnqug
xqutcMupgcgnsowcrnbebcxqucfebcpgfxsoa!cGnfgchvf waufe.cIxqgecIbgeqysg n
 quv.o’gckso.cxquchbggbecvq.asoaptttcHugcxqucwoqrcS’ybcnf.cfcvsggvbcgq
.esow,cfo.cgnfg’pcrnfgcjfwbpcjbtttcprbfe;c.qo’gcjso.csgtttt”

“HugcS’vvcaqcgqcgnbcvfo.vf.xcnbeb,”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcsopspgb.,
“S’vvchbpbb ncnbecgqckso.cpqjbc qeobeckqec.quosfcfo.cjbckqecgnbcosangtcS
 fo’gcvbfybcnsjcvswbcgnfg,cSc fooqg!”

Gnspc qoybepfgsqocgqqwcivf bcqocgnbcvfo.soacmupgchbkqebcgnbcvfo.vf.x’p
.qqetcOfpgfpxfcvsangb.cgnbjckeqjcfcpgbichbvqrtcEfzujsnsocrfpcso
bdgefqe.sofexcbd sgbjbogtcNfvkcfocnquecbfevsbe,crnsvbcnbcrfpchesoasoa
Efpwqvoswqycnqjb,cnbcnf.cso.bb.cgfvwb.cgqqckebbvx,chugcnbcrfpcfrfebcqk
sgcnsjpbvk,cfo.cnspcnbf.crfpc vbfecsocpisgbcqkcgnbcyfpgclufogsgsbpcnb
nf.csjhshb.tcOqrcnbcrfpcsocfcpgfgbchqe.besoacqocb pgfpx,cfo.cfvvcgnfgcnb
nf.c.euowcpbbjb.cgqckvxcgqcnspcnbf.crsgnceb.quhvb.cbkkb gtcNbcpgqq.crsgn
gnbcgrqcvf.sbp,cpbszsoachqgnchxcgnbsecnfo.p,cibepuf.soacgnbj,cfo.casysoa
gnbjcebfpqopcrsgncfpgqospnsoacivfsoobppcqkcpibb n,cfo.cfgcfvjqpgcbybex
rqe.cnbcuggbeb.,cieqhfhvxcgqcbjinfpspbcnspcfeaujbogp,cnbcplubbzb.cgnbse
nfo.pcifsokuvvxcfpcsocfcyspbtcNbcpgfeb.cfgcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcrsgnqugcgnb
vbfpgcebafe.ckqecaqq.cjfoobeptcGnbxcpqjbgsjbpciuvvb.cgnbsecnfo.pcqugcqk
nspcnuabchqoxcifrp,chugckfeckeqjcoqgs soacrnfgcrfpcgnbcjfggbe,cnbc.ebr
gnbjcfvvcgnbc vqpbecgqcnsjtcSkcgnbx’.cgqv.cnsjcgqcmujicnbf.ckqebjqpg
keqjcgnbcpgfse fpb,cnbcrquv.cnfybc.qobcsgcrsgnqugcgnquangcqecnbpsgfgsqo
socgnbsecpbeys btcGnquancIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofckbvgcgnfgcgnbcxquoacjfo
rfpcebfvvxcgqqcb  boges cfo.ciso nb.cnbecnfo.cgqqcju n,csocnbecfodsbgx
qybecnbecEq.xfcpnbcvqqwb.cqocnspciebpbo bcfpcieqys.bogsfv,cfo.crfp
uorsvvsoacgqcoqgs bcfvvcnspcib uvsfesgsbptcHugcgnquancFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof
pnfeb.cnbecfodsbgx,cfo.crfpcoqgcqkcgsjqequpc.spiqpsgsqo,cpnbc quv.coqg
pbbcgnbcavqrsoacvsangcsocnspcbxbpcrsgnqugcrqo.becfo.cfvjqpgcfvfejtcSg
rfpcqovxcgnbcuohquo.b.c qoks.bo bcsopiseb.chxcOfpgfpxf’pcf  quogcqkcnbe
heqgnbe’pclubbeckesbo.,crns nciebybogb.cnbeckeqjcgexsoacgqceuocfrfxckeqj
nsj,cfo.cgqcibepuf.bcnbecjqgnbecgqc.qcgnbcpfjbtcPnbcebfvspb.,cgqq,
gnfgcbyboceuoosoacfrfxcrfpcibenfipcsjiqppshvbcoqrtcGbocjsougbpcvfgbe,
nqrbybe,cpnbcrfpc qops.befhvxcebfppueb.;csgcrfpc nfef gbespgs cqk
Efzujsnsocgnfgcnbcpnqrb.cnspcgeubcofguebcfgcqo b,crnfgbybecjqq.cnbcjsang
hbcso,cpqcgnfgcibqivbclus wvxcpfrcgnbcpqegcqkcjfocgnbxcnf.cgqc.bfvcrsgnt

“Xquc fo’gcaqcgqcgnbcvfo.vf.x,cgnfg’pcibekb gcoqopbopb!”cnbc esb.tc“Sk
xqucpgfx,cgnquancxqucfebcnspcjqgnbe,cxqu’vvc.esybcnsjcgqcfckebozx,cfo.
gnbocaqq.obppcwoqrpcrnfgcrsvvcnfiibo!cVspgbo,cS’vvcgbvvcxqucrnfgcS’vv
.q:cOfpgfpxfcrsvvcpgfxcrsgncnsjcoqr,cfo.cS’vvc qo.u gcxquchqgncnqjb,cxqu
 fo’gchbcsocgnbcpgebbgpcfvqob;cIbgbephueacspcfocfrkuvcivf bcsocgnfg
rfxttttcHugcoqcjfggbe!cGnbocS’vvceuocpgefsangchf wcnbebcfo.cfclufegbecqk
focnquecvfgbe,cqocjxcrqe.cqkcnqoque,cS’vvchesoacxqucobrpcnqrcnbcsp,
rnbgnbecnbcspcfpvbbi,cfo.cfvvcgnfgtcGnbo,cvspgbo!cGnbocS’vvceuocnqjbcso
fcgrsowvsoa--S’ybcfcvqgcqkckesbo.pcgnbeb,cfvvc.euow--S’vvckbg n
Zqppsjqy--gnfg’pcgnbc.q gqecrnqcspcvqqwsoacfkgbecnsj,cnbcspcgnbeb,cgqq,
hugcnbcspcoqgc.euow;cnbcspcoqgc.euow,cnbcspcobybec.euow!cS’vvc.efacnsj
gqcEq.xf,cfo.cgnbocgqcxqu,cpqcgnfgcxqu’vvcabgcgrqcebiqegpcsocgnb
nque--keqjcgnbc.q gqe,cxqucuo.bepgfo.,ckeqjcgnbc.q gqecnsjpbvk,cgnfg’pcf
ybexc.skkbebogcgnsoackeqjcjxcf  quogcqkcnsj!cSkcgnbeb’pcfoxgnsoacreqoa,
ScprbfecS’vvchesoacxqucnbebcjxpbvk,chug,cskcsg’pcfvvcesang,cxqucaqcgq
hb.tcFo.cS’vvcpibo.cgnbcosangcnbeb,csocgnbcifppfab,cnbcrqo’gcnbfecjb,
fo.cS’vvcgbvvcZqppsjqycgqcpvbbicfgcgnbcvfo.vf.x’p,cgqchbcfgcnfo.tcRns n
spchbggbeckqecnsj:cxqucqecgnbc.q gqe?cPqc qjbcnqjbcgnbo!cHugcgnb
vfo.vf.xcspcqugcqkcgnbclubpgsqo;csg’pcfvvcesangckqecjb,chugcsg’pcqugcqk
gnbclubpgsqockqecxqu:cpnbcrquv.o’gcgfwbcxqu,ckqecpnb’ptttckqecpnb’pcf
kqqvtttcPnb’.chbcmbfvqupcqocjxcf  quogcqkcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcfo.cqkcxqu,
gqq,cskcxqucrfogcgqcwoqrtttcqkcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofc begfsovxtcPnbcspcfo
fhpqvugbvx,cfhpqvugbvxcuof  quogfhvbc nfef gbe!cHugcScfjcfckqqv,cgqq!ttt
Oqcjfggbe!c qjbcfvqoa!c.qcxqucgeupgcjb?c qjb,c.qcxqucgeupgcjbcqecoqg?”

“Vbgcupcaq,cjqgnbe,”cpfs.cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,c“nbcrsvvc begfsovxc.qcrnfg
nbcnfpcieqjspb.tcNbcnfpcpfyb.cEq.xfcfvebf.x,cfo.cskcgnbc.q gqecebfvvx
rsvvc qopbogcgqcpibo.cgnbcosangcnbeb,crnfgc quv.chbchbggbe?”

“Xqucpbb,cxqutttcxqutttcuo.bepgfo.cjb,chb fupbcxqucfebcfocfoabv!”
cEfzujsnsoc esb.csocb pgfpx,c“vbgcupcaq!cOfpgfpxf!cKvxcuipgfsepcfo.cpsg
rsgncnsjcrsgncfcvsang;cS’vvc qjbcsocfclufegbecqkcfocnquet”

GnquancIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrfpcoqgcibekb gvxc qoyso b.,cpnbcjf.bcoq
kuegnbecebpspgfo btcEfzujsnsocafybcfocfejcgqcbf ncfo.c.ebrcgnbjc.qro
gnbcpgfseptcNbcpgsvvcjf.bcnbecuobfpx,cfpcgnquancnbcrfpc qjibgbogcfo.
aqq.-ofgueb.,crfpcnbc fifhvbcqkc feexsoacqugcnspcieqjspb?cNbcpbbjb.cso
pu ncfc qo.sgsqotttt

“Fn,cScpbbcxqucgnsowcScfjcsocpu ncfc qo.sgsqo!”cEfzujsnsocheqwbcsocuiqo
nbecgnquangp,caubppsoacgnbj,cfpcnbcpgeqvvb.cfvqoacgnbcifybjbogcrsgncnuab
pgbip,cpqcgnfgcgnbcgrqcvf.sbpc quv.cnfe.vxcwbbicuicrsgncnsj,cfckf gcnb
.s.coqgcqhpbeyb,cnqrbybetc“Oqopbopb!cGnfgcsptttcScfjc.euowcvswbcfckqqv,
hugcgnfg’pcoqgcsg;cScfjcoqgc.euowckeqjcrsobtcSg’pcpbbsoacxqucnfpcgueob.
jxcnbf.tttcHugc.qo’gcjso.cjb!c.qo’gcgfwbcfoxcoqgs b:cScfjcgfvwsoa
oqopbopb,cScfjcoqgcrqegnxcqkcxquttttcScfjcuggbevxcuorqegnxcqkcxqu!cGnb
jsougbcS’ybcgfwbocxqucnqjb,cS’vvciquecfc quivbcqkcifsvkuvpcqkcrfgbecqybe
jxcnbf.csocgnbcauggbecnbeb,cfo.cgnbocScpnfvvchbcfvvcesangttttcSkcqovx
xqucwobrcnqrcScvqybcxquchqgn!c.qo’gcvfuan,cfo.c.qo’gchbcfoaex!cXqucjfx
hbcfoaexcrsgncfoxqob,chugcoqgcrsgncjb!cScfjcnspckesbo.,cfo.cgnbebkqebcS
fjcxqueckesbo.,cgqq,cScrfogcgqchbtttcScnf.cfciebpbogsjbogtttcVfpgcxbfe
gnbebcrfpcfcjqjbogtttcgnquancsgcrfpo’gcfciebpbogsjbogcebfvvx,ckqe
xqucpbbjcgqcnfybckfvvbockeqjcnbfybotcFo.cScbdib gcScpnfo’gcpvbbicfvv
osangtttcZqppsjqycrfpcfkefs.cfcvsggvbcgsjbcfaqcgnfgcnbcrquv.caqcjf.ttt
gnfg’pcrnxcnbcjupgo’gchbcseesgfgb.t”

“Rnfgc.qcxqucpfx?”c esb.cgnbcjqgnbet

“.s.cgnbc.q gqecebfvvxcpfxcgnfg?”cfpwb.cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,cfvfejb.t

“Xbp,chugcsg’pcoqgcpq,coqgcfchsgcqkcsgtcNbcafybcnsjcpqjbcjb.s sob,cf
iqr.be,cScpfrcsg,cfo.cgnbocxquec qjsoacnbebttttcFn!cSgcrquv.cnfybchbbo
hbggbecskcxqucnf.c qjbcgq-jqeeqrtcSg’pcfcaqq.cgnsoacrbcrbogcfrfxtcFo.cso
focnquecZqppsjqycnsjpbvkcrsvvcebiqegcgqcxqucfhqugcbybexgnsoatcNbcspcoqg
.euow!cFo.cScpnfo’gchbc.euowttttcFo.crnfgcjf.bcjbcabgcpqcgsang?cHb fupb
gnbxcaqgcjbcsogqcfocfeaujbog,c.fjocgnbj!cS’ybcprqeocobybecgqcfeaub!cGnbx
gfvwcpu ncgefpn!cScfvjqpgc fjbcgqchvqrp!cS’ybcvbkgcjxcuo vbcgqciebps.bt
Rquv.cxquchbvsbyb,cgnbxcsopspgcqoc qjivbgbcfhpbo bcqkcso.sys.ufvspj
fo.cgnfg’pcmupgcrnfgcgnbxcebvspn!cOqgcgqchbcgnbjpbvybp,cgqchbcfpcuovswb
gnbjpbvybpcfpcgnbxc fotcGnfg’pcrnfgcgnbxcebafe.cfpcgnbcnsanbpgciqsogcqk
ieqaebpptcSkcqovxcgnbsecoqopbopbcrbebcgnbsecqro,chugcfpcsgcspttt”

“Vspgbo!”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcsogbeeuigb.cgsjs.vx,chugcsgcqovxcf..b.
kubvcgqcgnbckvfjbpt

“Rnfgc.qcxqucgnsow?”cpnqugb.cEfzujsnso,cvqu.becgnfocbybe,c“xqucgnsowcS
fjcfggf wsoacgnbjckqecgfvwsoacoqopbopb?cOqgcfchsg!cScvswbcgnbjcgqcgfvw
oqopbopbtcGnfg’pcjfo’pcqobciesysvbabcqybecfvvc ebfgsqotcGnequancbeeqe
xquc qjbcgqcgnbcgeugn!cScfjcfcjfochb fupbcScbee!cXqucobybecebf ncfox
geugncrsgnqugcjfwsoackquegbbocjspgfwbpcfo.cybexcvswbvxcfcnuo.eb.cfo.
kquegbbotcFo.cfcksobcgnsoa,cgqq,csocsgpcrfx;chugcrbc fo’gcbybocjfwb
jspgfwbpcqocquecqrocf  quog!cGfvwcoqopbopb,chugcgfvwcxquecqrocoqopbopb,
fo.cS’vvcwsppcxquckqecsgtcGqcaqcreqoacsocqob’pcqrocrfxcspchbggbecgnfo
gqcaqcesangcsocpqjbqobcbvpb’ptcSocgnbcksepgc fpbcxqucfebcfcjfo,csocgnb
pb qo.cxqu’ebcoqchbggbecgnfocfchse.tcGeugncrqo’gcbp fibcxqu,chugcvskb
 fochbc efjib.tcGnbebcnfybchbbocbdfjivbptcFo.crnfgcfebcrbc.qsoacoqr?
Socp sbo b,c.bybvqijbog,cgnquang,csoybogsqo,cs.bfvp,cfsjp,cvshbefvspj,
mu.ajbog,cbdibesbo bcfo.cbybexgnsoa,cbybexgnsoa,cbybexgnsoa,crbcfeb
pgsvvcsocgnbciebifefgqexc vfppcfgcp nqqvtcRbciebkbecgqcvsybcqocqgnbe
ibqivb’pcs.bfp,csg’pcrnfgcrbcfebcupb.cgq!cFjcScesang,cfjcScesang?”c esb.
Efzujsnso,ciebppsoacfo.cpnfwsoacgnbcgrqcvf.sbp’cnfo.pt

“Qn,cjbe x,cSc.qcoqgcwoqr,”c esb.ciqqecIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoft

“Xbp,cxbptttcgnquancSc.qo’gcfaebbcrsgncxqucsocbybexgnsoa,”cf..b.cFy.qgxf
Eqjfoqyofcbfeobpgvxcfo.cfgcqo bcuggbeb.cfc ex,ckqecnbcplubbzb.cnbecnfo.
pqcifsokuvvxt

“Xbp,cxqucpfxcxbptttcrbvvcfkgbecgnfgcxqutttcxquttt”cnbc esb.cso
fcgefopiqeg,c“xqucfebcfckquogcqkcaqq.obpp,ciuesgx,cpbopbtttcfo.
ibekb gsqotcAsybcjbcxquecnfo.tttcxqucasybcjbcxquep,cgqq!cScrfogcgqcwspp
xquecnfo.pcnbebcfgcqo b,cqocjxcwobbpttt”cfo.cnbckbvvcqocnspcwobbpcqocgnb
ifybjbog,ckqeguofgbvxcfgcgnfgcgsjbc.bpbegb.t

“Vbfybcqkk,cScbogebfgcxqu,crnfgcfebcxquc.qsoa?”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof
 esb.,caebfgvxc.spgebppb.t

“Abgcui,cabgcui!”cpfs.c.quosfcvfuansoa,cgnquancpnb,cgqq,crfpcuipbgt

“Oqgckqecfoxgnsoacgsvvcxqucvbgcjbcwsppcxquecnfo.p!cGnfg’pcsg!cBoquan!cS
abgcuicfo.crb’vvcaqcqo!cScfjcfcvu wvbppckqqv,cScfjcuorqegnxcqkcxqucfo.
.euowtttcfo.cScfjcfpnfjb.ttttcScfjcoqgcrqegnxcgqcvqybcxqu,chugcgqc.q
nqjfabcgqcxqucspcgnbc.ugxcqkcbybexcjfocrnqcspcoqgcfcibekb gchbfpg!cFo.
S’ybc.qobcnqjfabttttcNbebcfebcxquecvq.asoap,cfo.ckqecgnfgcfvqobcEq.xf
rfpcesangcsoc.esysoacxquecIxqgecIbgeqysg ncfrfxttttcNqrc.febcnb!cnqr
.febcnbciugcxqucsocpu ncvq.asoap!cSg’pcfcp fo.fv!c.qcxqucwoqrcgnb
pqegcqkcibqivbcgnbxcgfwbcsocnbeb?cFo.cxqucnspchbgeqgnb.!cXqucfeb
nspchbgeqgnb.?cXbp?cRbvv,cgnbo,cS’vvcgbvvcxqu,cxquec_ksfo é_cspcf
p quo.ebvt”

“Bd upbcjb,cJetcEfzujsnso,cxqucfebckqeabggsoattt”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof
rfpchbasoosoat

“Xbp,cxbp,cxqucfebcesang,cSc.s.ckqeabgcjxpbvk,cScfjcfpnfjb.cqkcsg,”
cEfzujsnsocjf.bcnfpgbcgqcfiqvqaspbtc“Hugtttchugcxquc fo’gchbcfoaexcrsgn
jbckqecpibfwsoacpq!cKqecScpibfwcpso bebvxcfo.coqgchb fupbtttcnj,cnj!
Gnfgcrquv.chbc.spaef bkuv;csockf gcoqgchb fupbcS’jcsotttcnj!cRbvv,
foxrfx,cScrqo’gcpfxcrnx,cSc.febo’gttttcHugcrbcfvvcpfrcgq-.fxcrnbocnb
 fjbcsocgnfgcgnfgcjfocspcoqgcqkcquecpqegtcOqgchb fupbcnbcnf.cnspcnfse
 uevb.cfgcgnbchfehbe’p,coqgchb fupbcnbcrfpcsocpu ncfcnueexcgqcpnqrcnsp
rsg,chugchb fupbcnbcspcfcpix,cfcpib uvfgqe,chb fupbcnbcspcfcpwso-kvsog
fo.cfchukkqqotcGnfg’pcbys.bogtc.qcxqucgnsowcnsjc vbybe?cOq,cnbcspcf
kqqv,cfckqqvtcFo.cspcnbcfcjfg nckqecxqu?cAqq.cnbfybop!c.qcxqucpbb,
vf.sbp?”cnbcpgqiib.cpu..bovxcqocgnbcrfxcuipgfsepcgqcgnbseceqqjp,c“gnquan
fvvcjxckesbo.pcgnbebcfebc.euow,cxbgcgnbxcfebcfvvcnqobpg,cfo.cgnquancrb
.qcgfvwcfcvqgcqkcgefpn,cfo.cSc.q,cgqq,cxbgcrbcpnfvvcgfvwcquecrfxcgqcgnb
geugncfgcvfpg,ckqecrbcfebcqocgnbcesangcifgn,crnsvbcIxqgecIbgeqysg nttt
spcoqgcqocgnbcesangcifgntcGnquancS’ybchbboc fvvsoacgnbjcfvvcpqegpcqk
ofjbpcmupgcoqr,cSc.qcebpib gcgnbjcfvvtttcgnquancSc.qo’gcebpib gcZfjbgqy,
Scvswbcnsj,ckqecnbcspcfciuiix,cfo.cgnfgchuvvq wcZqppsjqy,chb fupbcnb
spcfocnqobpgcjfocfo.cwoqrpcnspcrqewtcHugcboquan,csg’pcfvvcpfs.cfo.
kqeasybotcSpcsgckqeasybo?cRbvv,cgnbo,cvbg’pcaqcqotcScwoqrcgnspc qees.qe,
S’ybchbbocnbeb,cgnbebcrfpcfcp fo.fvcnbebcfgcOujhbec3ttttcRnbebcfebcxqu
nbeb?cRns ncoujhbe?cbsang?cRbvv,cvq wcxquepbvybpcsockqecgnbcosang,cgnbot
.qo’gcvbgcfoxhq.xcsotcSocfclufegbecqkcfocnquecS’vvc qjbchf wcrsgncobrp,
fo.cnfvkcfocnquecvfgbecS’vvchesoacZqppsjqy,cxqu’vvcpbb!cAqq.-hxb,cS’vv
euot”

“Aqq.cnbfybop,c.quosf,crnfgcspcaqsoacgqcnfiibo?”cpfs.cIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyof,cf..ebppsoacnbec.fuangbecrsgncfodsbgxcfo.c.spjfxt

“.qo’gcrqeexcxquepbvk,cjqgnbe,”cpfs.c.quosf,cgfwsoacqkkcnbecnfgcfo.
 fibtc“Aq.cnfpcpbogcgnspcabogvbjfocgqcquecfs.,cgnquancnbcnfpc qjbckeqjcf
.esowsoacifegxtcRbc foc.bibo.cqocnsj,cScfppuebcxqutcFo.cfvvcgnfgcnbcnfp
.qobckqecEq.xftttt”

“Fntc.quosf,caqq.obppcwoqrpcrnbgnbecnbcrsvvc qjb!cNqrc quv.cSchesoa
jxpbvkcgqcvbfybcEq.xf?tttcFo.cnqrc.skkbebog,cnqrc.skkbebogcScnf.ckfo sb.
quecjbbgsoa!cNqrcpuvvbocnbcrfp,cfpcgnquancoqgcivbfpb.cgqcpbbcuptttt”

Gbfepc fjbcsogqcnbecbxbpt

“Oq,csg’pcoqgcgnfg,cjqgnbetcXquc.s.o’gcpbb,cxqucrbebc exsoacfvvcgnb
gsjbtcNbcspclusgbcuonsoab.chxcpbesqupcsvvobpp--gnfg’pcgnbcebfpqot”

“Fn,cgnfgcsvvobpp!cRnfgcrsvvcnfiibo,crnfgcrsvvcnfiibo?cFo.cnqrcnbcgfvwb.
gqcxqu,c.quosf!”cpfs.cgnbcjqgnbe,cvqqwsoacgsjs.vxcfgcnbec.fuangbe,
gexsoacgqcebf.cnbecgnquangpcfo.,cfvebf.xcnfvkc qopqvb.chxc.quosf’p
pgfo.soacuickqecnbecheqgnbe,crns ncjbfogcgnfgcpnbcnf.cfvebf.xckqeasybo
nsjtc“Scfjcpuebcnbcrsvvcgnsowchbggbecqkcsgcgq-jqeeqr,”cpnbcf..b.,
ieqhsoacnbeckuegnbet

“Fo.cScfjcpuebcgnfgcnbcrsvvcpfxcgnbcpfjbcgq-jqeeqrtttcfhqugcgnfg,”
cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcpfs.cksofvvxtcFo.,cqkc quepb,cgnbebcrfpcoqcaqsoa
hbxqo.cgnfg,ckqecgnspcrfpcfciqsogcrns ncIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrfp
fkefs.cgqc.sp upptc.quosfcrbogcuicfo.cwsppb.cnbecjqgnbetcGnbcvfggbe
rfejvxcbjhef b.cnbecrsgnqugcpibfwsoatcGnbocpnbcpfgc.qrocgqcrfsg
fodsqupvxckqecEfzujsnso’pcebgueo,cgsjs.vxcrfg nsoacnbec.fuangbecrnq
rfvwb.cuicfo.c.qrocgnbceqqjcrsgncnbecfejpckqv.b.,cvqpgcsocgnquangt
Gnspcrfvwsoacuicfo.c.qrocrnbocpnbcrfpcgnsowsoacrfpcfcnfhsgcqkcFy.qgxf
Eqjfoqyof’pcfo.cgnbcjqgnbecrfpcfvrfxpcfkefs.cgqchebfwcsocqocnbe
.fuangbe’pcjqq.cfgcpu ncjqjbogpt

Efzujsnso,cqkc quepb,crfpces.s uvqupcsocnspcpu..boc.euowbocsokfgufgsqo
kqecFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoftcXbgcfifegckeqjcnspcb  boges c qo.sgsqo,cjfox
ibqivbcrquv.cnfybcgnquangcsgcmupgsksb.cskcgnbxcnf.cpbbocFy.qgxf
Eqjfoqyof,cbpib sfvvxcfgcgnfgcjqjbogcrnbocpnbcrfpcrfvwsoacgqcfo.
keqcrsgnckqv.b.cfejp,cibopsybcfo.cjbvfo nqvxtcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcrfp
ebjfewfhvxcaqq.-vqqwsoa;cpnbcrfpcgfvv,cpgeswsoavxcrbvv-ieqiqegsqob.,
pgeqoacfo.cpbvk-ebvsfog--gnbcvfggbeclufvsgxcrfpcfiifebogcsocbybex
abpgueb,cgnquancsgc.s.coqgcsocgnbcvbfpgc.bgef gckeqjcgnbcaef bcfo.
pqkgobppcqkcnbecjqybjbogptcSockf bcpnbcebpbjhvb.cnbecheqgnbe,chugcpnb
jsangchbc.bp eshb.cfpcebfvvxchbfugskuvtcNbecnfsecrfpc.fewcheqro,cf
vsggvbcvsangbecgnfocnbecheqgnbe’p;cgnbebcrfpcfciequ.cvsangcsocnbecfvjqpg
hvf wcbxbpcfo.cxbgcfgcgsjbpcfcvqqwcqkcbdgefqe.sofexcwso.obpptcPnbcrfp
ifvb,chugcsgcrfpcfcnbfvgnxcifvvqe;cnbeckf bcrfpcef.sfogcrsgnckebpnobpp
fo.cysaquetcNbecjqugncrfpcefgnbecpjfvv;cgnbckuvvceb.cvqrbecvsicieqmb gb.
fcvsggvbcfpc.s.cnbec nso;csgcrfpcgnbcqovxcseebauvfesgxcsocnbechbfugskuv
kf b,chugcsgcafybcsgcfcib uvsfevxcso.sys.ufvcfo.cfvjqpgcnfuangx
bdiebppsqotcNbeckf bcrfpcfvrfxpcjqebcpbesqupcfo.cgnquangkuvcgnfocafx;
hugcnqrcrbvvcpjsvbp,cnqrcrbvvcxqugnkuv,cvsangnbfegb.,cseebpiqopshvb,
vfuangbecpusgb.cnbeckf b!cSgcrfpcofguefvcboquancgnfgcfcrfej,cqibo,
psjivb-nbfegb.,cnqobpgcasfogcvswbcEfzujsnso,crnqcnf.cobybecpbbocfoxqob
vswbcnbecfo.crfpcoqgclusgbcpqhbecfgcgnbcgsjb,cpnquv.cvqpbcnspcnbf.
sjjb.sfgbvxtcHbps.bp,cfpc nfo bcrquv.cnfybcsg,cnbcpfrc.quosfckqecgnb
ksepgcgsjbcgefopksaueb.chxcnbecvqybckqecnbecheqgnbecfo.cnbecmqxcfg
jbbgsoacnsjtcFkgberfe.pcnbcpfrcnbecvqrbecvsiclusybecrsgncso.saofgsqo
fgcnbecheqgnbe’pcsopqvbog,c eubvcfo.cuoaefgbkuvcrqe.p--fo.cnspckfgbcrfp
pbfvb.t

Nbcnf.cpiqwbocgnbcgeugn,cjqebqybe,crnbocnbchvuegb.cqugcsocnspc.euowbo
gfvwcqocgnbcpgfsepcgnfgcIefpwqyxfcIfyvqyof,cEfpwqvoswqy’pcb  boges 
vfo.vf.x,crquv.chbcmbfvqupcqkcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcfpcrbvvcfpcqk
Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcqocnspcf  quogtcFvgnquancIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrfp
kqegx-gnebb,cnbeckf bcpgsvvcebgfsob.cgef bpcqkcnbeckqejbechbfugx;cpnb
vqqwb.cju ncxquoabecgnfocnbecfab,cso.bb.,crns ncspcfvjqpgcfvrfxpcgnb
 fpbcrsgncrqjbocrnqcebgfsocpbebosgxcqkcpisesg,cpbopsgsybobppcfo.ciueb
pso bebcrfejgncqkcnbfegcgqcqv.cfabtcRbcjfxcf..csocifebognbpspcgnfgcgq
iebpbeybcfvvcgnspcspcgnbcqovxcjbfopcqkcebgfsosoachbfugxcgqcqv.cfabtcNbe
nfsecnf.chbauocgqcaeqrcaebxcfo.cgnso,cgnbebcnf.cvqoachbbocvsggvbc eqr’p
kqqgcresowvbpcequo.cnbecbxbp,cnbec nbbwpcrbebcnqvvqrcfo.cpuowbockeqj
fodsbgxcfo.caesbk,cfo.cxbgcsgcrfpcfcnfo.pqjbckf btcPnbcrfpc.quosf
qybecfafso,cgrbogxcxbfepcqv.be,chugcrsgnqugcgnbcieqmb gsoacuo.bevsit
Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrfpcbjqgsqofv,chugcoqgcpbogsjbogfv,cgsjs.cfo.
xsbv.soa,chugcqovxcgqcfc begfsociqsogtcPnbc quv.casybcrfxcfo.cf  bigcf
aebfgc.bfvcbybocqkcrnfgcrfpc qogefexcgqcnbec qoys gsqop,chugcgnbebcrfpcf
 begfsochfeesbecksdb.chxcnqobpgx,cieso sivbcfo.cgnbc.bbibpgc qoys gsqop
rns ncoqgnsoacrquv.cso.u bcnbecgqc eqppt

Bdf gvxcgrbogxcjsougbpcfkgbecEfzujsnso’pc.bifegueb,cgnbebc fjbcgrq
puh.ub.chugcnueesb.cwoq wpcfgcgnbc.qqe:cnbcnf.c qjbchf wt

“Scrqo’gc qjbcso,cScnfybo’gcgsjb,”cnbcnfpgbob.cgqcpfxcrnbocgnbc.qqecrfp
qibob.tc“Nbcpvbbipcvswbcfcgqi,cpquo.vx,clusbgvx,cfo.cAq.caefogcnbcjfx
pvbbicgbocnqueptcOfpgfpxf’pcrsgncnsj;cScgqv.cnbecoqgcgqcvbfybcgsvvcS
 fjbtcOqrcScfjckbg nsoacZqppsjqy,cnbcrsvvcebiqegcgqcxqucfo.cgnbocxqu’.
hbggbecgueocso;cSc focpbbcxqucfebcgqqcgseb.cgqc.qcfoxgnsoatttt”

Fo.cnbcefocqkkc.qrocgnbc qees.qet

“Rnfgcfcybexc qjibgbogcfo.tttc.byqgb.cxquoacjfo!”c esb.cIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyofcbd bb.soavxc.bvsangb.t

“Nbcpbbjpcfcpivbo.s.cibepqo!”cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcebivsb.crsgncpqjb
rfejgn,cebpujsoacnbecrfvwcuicfo.c.qrocgnbceqqjt

Sgcrfpcobfevxcfocnquecvfgbecrnbocgnbxcnbfe.ckqqgpgbipcsocgnbc qees.qe
fo.cfoqgnbecwoq wcfgcgnbc.qqetcHqgncrqjbocrfsgb.cgnspcgsjbc qjivbgbvx
ebvxsoacqocEfzujsnso’pcieqjspb;cnbcf gufvvxcnf.cpu  bb.b.csochesoasoa
ZqppsjqytcZqppsjqycnf.cfaebb.cfgcqo bcgqc.bpbegcgnbc.esowsoacifegxcgq
aqcgqcEfpwqvoswqy’p,chugcnbc fjbcebvu gfogvxcfo.crsgncgnbcaebfgbpg
pupis sqocgqcpbbcgnbcvf.sbp,cjspgeupgsoacEfzujsnsocsocnspcbdnsvfefgb.
 qo.sgsqotcHugcnspcyfosgxcrfpcfgcqo bcebfppueb.cfo.ckvfggbeb.;cnbcpfr
gnfgcgnbxcrbebcebfvvxcbdib gsoacnsjcfpcfocqef vbtcNbcpgfxb.cmupgcgbo
jsougbpcfo.cpu  bb.b.csoc qjivbgbvxc qoyso soacfo.c qjkqegsoacIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyoftcNbcpiqwbcrsgncjfewb.cpxjifgnx,chugcrsgncgnbcebpbeybcfo.
bdgebjbcpbesqupobppcqkcfcxquoac.q gqecfgcfocsjiqegfogc qopuvgfgsqot
Nbc.s.coqgcuggbecfcrqe.cqocfoxcqgnbecpuhmb gcfo.c.s.coqgc.spivfxcgnb
pvsangbpgc.bpsebcgqcbogbecsogqcjqebcibepqofvcebvfgsqopcrsgncgnbcgrq
vf.sbptcEbjfewsoacfgcnspcksepgcbogefo bcgnbc.fzzvsoachbfugxcqkcFy.qgxf
Eqjfoqyof,cnbcbo.bfyqueb.coqgcgqcoqgs bcnbecfgcfvvc.uesoacnspcyspsgcfo.
f..ebppb.cnsjpbvkcpqvbvxcgqcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoftcFvvcgnspcafybcnsj
bdgefqe.sofexcsorfe.cpfgspkf gsqotcNbc.b vfeb.cgnfgcnbcgnquangcgnb
soyfvs.cfgcgnspcjqjbogcaqsoacqocybexcpfgspkf gqesvxtcF  qe.soacgqcnsp
qhpbeyfgsqopcgnbcifgsbog’pcsvvobppcrfpc.ubcifegvxcgqcnspcuokqeguofgb
jfgbesfvcpueequo.soapc.uesoacgnbcvfpgckbrcjqognp,chugcsgcnf.cifegvxcfvpq
fcjqefvcqesaso,c“rfp,cpqcgqcpibfw,cgnbcieq.u gcqkcpbybefvcjfgbesfvcfo.
jqefvcsokvubo bp,cfodsbgsbp,cfiiebnbopsqop,cgequhvbp,c begfsocs.bfpttt
fo.cpqcqot”cOqgs soacpgbfvgnsvxcgnfgcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcrfpckqvvqrsoacnsp
rqe.pcrsgnc vqpbcfggbogsqo,cZqppsjqycfvvqrb.cnsjpbvkcgqcbovfeabcqocgnsp
gnbjbtcQocIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof’pcfodsqupvxcfo.cgsjs.vxcsolusesoacfp
gqc“pqjbcpupis sqocqkcsopfosgx,”cnbcebivsb.crsgncfc qjiqpb.cfo.c fo.s.
pjsvbcgnfgcnspcrqe.pcnf.chbbocbdfaabefgb.;cgnfgc begfsovxcgnbcifgsbog
nf.cpqjbcksdb.cs.bf,cpqjbgnsoacfiieqf nsoacfcjqoqjfosf--nb,cZqppsjqy,
rfpcoqrcifegs uvfevxcpgu.xsoacgnspcsogbebpgsoachefo ncqkcjb.s sob--hug
gnfgcsgcjupgchbceb qvvb gb.cgnfgcuogsvcgq-.fxcgnbcifgsbogcnf.chbbocso
.bvsesujcfo.tttcfo.cgnfgcoqc.quhgcgnbciebpbo bcqkcnspckfjsvxcrquv.cnfyb
fckfyquefhvbcbkkb gcqocnspceb qybexcfo.c.spgef gcnspcjso.,c“skcqovxcfvv
kebpncpnq wpc fochbcfyqs.b.,”cnbcf..b.cpsaosks fogvxtcGnbocnbcaqgcui,
gqqwcvbfybcrsgncfocsjiebppsybcfo.cfkkfhvbchqr,crnsvbchvbppsoap,crfej
aefgsgu.b,cfo.cbogebfgsbpcrbebcpnqrbeb.cuiqocnsj,cfo.cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof
piqogfobqupvxcqkkbeb.cnbecnfo.cgqcnsjtcNbcrbogcqugcbd bb.soavxcivbfpb.
rsgncnspcyspsgcfo.cpgsvvcjqebcpqcrsgncnsjpbvkt

“Rb’vvcgfvwcgq-jqeeqr;caqcgqchb.cfgcqo b!”cEfzujsnsocpfs.csoc qo vupsqo,
kqvvqrsoacZqppsjqycqugtc“S’vvchbcrsgncxqucgq-jqeeqrcjqeosoacfpcbfevxcfp
iqppshvbcrsgncjxcebiqegt”

“Gnfg’pcfckbg nsoacvsggvbcasev,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,”cebjfewb.cZqppsjqy,
fvjqpgcvs wsoacnspcvsipcfpcgnbxchqgnc fjbcqugcsogqcgnbcpgebbgt

“Kbg nsoa?cXqucpfs.ckbg nsoa?”ceqfeb.cEfzujsnsocfo.cnbckvbrcfgcZqppsjqy
fo.cpbszb.cnsjchxcgnbcgneqfgtc“Skcxqucbybec.febttttc.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.?
.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.?”cnbcpnqugb.,cpnfwsoacnsjchxcgnbc qvvfecfo.cplubbzsoa
nsjcfafsopgcgnbcrfvvtc“.qcxqucnbfe?”

“Vbgcjbcaq,cxquc.euowboc.bysv,”cpfs.cZqppsjqy,cpgeuaavsoacfo.crnbocnb
nf.cvbgcnsjcaq,cnbcpgfeb.cfgcnsjcfo.crbogcqkkcsogqcfcpu..bocaukkfrt
Efzujsnsocpgqq.ckf soacnsjcsocavqqjxcfo.cbfeobpgcebkvb gsqot

“Qkc quepb,cScfjcfocfpp,”cnbcqhpbeyb.,cpqjhebcfpcfcpgqejc vqu.,c“hug
pgsvvtttcxqucfebcfoqgnbet”

“Oq,cheqgnbe,coqgcfgcfvvcpu ncfoqgnbetcScfjcoqgc.ebfjsoacqkcfoxckqvvxt”

Gnbxcrfvwb.cfvqoacsocpsvbo bcfo.cqovxcrnbocgnbxcrbebc vqpbcgq
Efpwqvoswqy’pcvq.asoap,cEfzujsnsocheqwbcgnbcpsvbo bcsoc qops.befhvb
fodsbgxt

“Vspgbo,”cnbcpfs.,c“xqu’ebcfcksepg-efgbckbvvqr,chugcfjqoacxquecqgnbe
kfsvsoap,cxqu’ebcfcvqqpbckspn,cgnfgcScwoqr,cfo.cfc.segxcqob,cgqqtcXqu
febcfckbbhvb,cobeyqupcrebg n,cfo.cfcjfppcqkcrnsjp,cxqu’ebcabggsoackfg
fo.cvfzxcfo.c fo’gc.boxcxquepbvkcfoxgnsoa--fo.cSc fvvcgnfgc.segxchb fupb
sgcvbf.pcqobcpgefsangcsogqcgnbc.segtcXqu’ybcvbgcxquepbvkcabgcpqcpvf w
gnfgcSc.qo’gcwoqrcnqrcsgcspcxqucfebcpgsvvcfcaqq.,cbybocfc.byqgb.c.q gqet
Xqu--fc.q gqe--pvbbicqocfckbfgnbechb.cfo.cabgcuicfgcosangcgqcxque
ifgsbogp!cSocfoqgnbecgnebbcqeckquecxbfepcxqucrqo’gcabgcuickqecxque
ifgsbogptttcHugcnfoacsgcfvv,cgnfg’pcoqgcgnbciqsog!tttcXqucfebcaqsoa
gqcpibo.cgq-osangcsocgnbcvfo.vf.x’pckvfgcnbebtc(Nfe.crqewcS’ybcnf.cgq
ibepuf.bcnbe!)cFo.cS’vvchbcsocgnbcwsg nbotcPqcnbeb’pcfc nfo bckqecxqucgq
abgcgqcwoqrcnbechbggbettttcSg’pcoqgcfpcxqucgnsow!cGnbeb’pcoqgcfcgef bcqk
foxgnsoacqkcgnbcpqeg,cheqgnbettt!”

“HugcSc.qo’gcgnsow!”

“Nbebcxqucnfybcjq.bpgx,cheqgnbe,cpsvbo b,chfpnkuvobpp,cfcpfyfab
ysegubtttcfo.cxbgcpnb’pcpsansoacfo.cjbvgsoacvswbcrfd,cpsjivxcjbvgsoa!
Pfybcjbckeqjcnbe,chxcfvvcgnfg’pcuonqvx!cPnb’pcjqpgciebiqppbppsoatttcS’vv
ebifxcxqu,cS’vvc.qcfoxgnsoatttt”

Zqppsjqycvfuanb.cjqebcysqvbogvxcgnfocbybet

“Rbvv,cxqucfebcpjsggbo!cHugcrnfgcfjcScgqc.qcrsgncnbe?”

“Sgcrqo’gchbcju ncgequhvb,cScfppuebcxqutcGfvwcfoxceqgcxqucvswbcgqcnbe,
fpcvqoacfpcxqucpsgchxcnbecfo.cgfvwtcXqu’ebcfc.q gqe,cgqq;cgexc uesoa
nbecqkcpqjbgnsoatcScprbfecxqucrqo’gcebaebgcsgtcPnbcnfpcfcisfoq,cfo.cxqu
woqr,cScpgeujcfcvsggvbtcScnfybcfcpqoacgnbeb,cfcabousobcEuppsfocqob:c‘S
pnb.cnqgcgbfept’cPnbcvswbpcgnbcabousobcfegs vb--fo.crbvv,csgcfvv
hbafocrsgncgnfgcpqoa;cOqrcxqu’ebcfcebauvfecibekqejbe,cfc_jfîgeb_,cf
EuhsopgbsottttcScfppuebcxqu,cxqucrqo’gcebaebgcsg!”

“Hugcnfybcxqucjf.bcnbecpqjbcieqjspb?cPqjbgnsoacpsaob.?cFcieqjspbcqk
jfeesfab,cibenfip?”

“Oqgnsoa,coqgnsoa,cfhpqvugbvxcoqgnsoacqkcgnbcwso.!cHbps.bpcpnbcspcoqg
gnfgcpqegcfgcfvvttttcG nbhfeqycgesb.cgnfgtttt”

“Rbvvcgnbo,c.eqicnbe!”

“HugcSc fo’gc.eqicnbecvswbcgnfg!”

“Rnxc fo’gcxqu?”

“Rbvv,cSc fo’g,cgnfg’pcfvvcfhqugcsg!cGnbeb’pcfocbvbjbogcqkcfggef gsqo
nbeb,cheqgnbet”

“Gnbocrnxcnfybcxquckfp sofgb.cnbe?”

“Scnfybo’gckfp sofgb.cnbe;cibenfipcScrfpckfp sofgb.cjxpbvkcsocjxckqvvxt
Hugcpnbcrqo’gc febcfcpgefrcrnbgnbecsg’pcxqucqecS,cpqcvqoacfpcpqjbhq.x
psgpchbps.bcnbe,cpsansoattttcSc fo’gcbdivfsocgnbciqpsgsqo,cheqgnbettt
vqqwcnbeb,cxqucfebcaqq.cfgcjfgnbjfgs p,cfo.crqewsoacfgcsgcoqrtttchbaso
gbf nsoacnbecgnbcsogbaefvc fv uvup;cuiqocjxcpquv,cS’jcoqgcmqwsoa,cS’j
socbfeobpg,csg’vvchbcmupgcgnbcpfjbcgqcnbetcPnbcrsvvcafzbcfgcxqucfo.cpsan
kqecfcrnqvbcxbfecgqabgnbetcScgfvwb.cgqcnbecqo bckqecgrqc.fxpcfgcfcgsjb
fhqugcgnbcIeuppsfocNqupbcqkcVqe.pc(kqecqobcjupgcgfvwcqkcpqjbgnsoa)--pnb
mupgcpsanb.cfo.cibepiseb.!cFo.cxqucjupgo’gcgfvwcqkcvqyb--pnb’pchfpnkuv
gqcnxpgbes p--hugcmupgcvbgcnbecpbbcxquc fo’gcgbfecxquepbvkcfrfx--gnfg’p
boquantcSg’pckbfekuvvxc qjkqegfhvb;cxqu’ebclusgbcfgcnqjb,cxquc fo
ebf.,cpsg,cvsbcfhqug,cresgbtcXqucjfxcbybocyboguebcqocfcwspp,cskcxqu’eb
 febkuvt”

“Hugcrnfgc.qcScrfogcrsgncnbe?”

“F n,cSc fo’gcjfwbcxqucuo.bepgfo.!cXqucpbb,cxqucfebcjf.bckqecbf ncqgnbe!
Scnfybcqkgbochbbocebjso.b.cqkcxqu!tttcXqu’vvc qjbcgqcsgcsocgnbcbo.!cPq
.qbpcsgcjfggbecrnbgnbecsg’pcpqqobecqecvfgbe?cGnbeb’pcgnbckbfgnbe-hb.
bvbjbogcnbeb,cheqgnbe--f n!cfo.coqgcqovxcgnfg!cGnbeb’pcfocfggef gsqo
nbeb--nbebcxqucnfybcgnbcbo.cqkcgnbcrqev.,cfocfo nqefab,cfclusbgcnfybo,
gnbcofybvcqkcgnbcbfegn,cgnbcgnebbckspnbpcgnfgcfebcgnbckquo.fgsqocqkcgnb
rqev.,cgnbcbppbo bcqkcifo fwbp,cqkcpfyquexckspn-isbp,cqkcgnbcbybosoa
pfjqyfe,cqkcpqkgcpsanpcfo.crfejcpnfrvp,cfo.cnqgcpgqybpcgqcpvbbicqo--fp
pouacfpcgnquancxqucrbebc.bf.,cfo.cxbgcxqu’ebcfvsyb--gnbcf.yfogfabp
qkchqgncfgcqo b!cRbvv,cnfoacsg,cheqgnbe,crnfgcpgukkcS’jcgfvwsoa,csg’p
hb.gsjb!cVspgbotcScpqjbgsjbpcrfwbcuicfgcosang;cpqcS’vvcaqcsocfo.cvqqwcfg
nsjtcHugcgnbeb’pcoqcobb.,csg’pcfvvcesangtc.qo’gcxqucrqeexcxquepbvk,
xbgcskcxqucvswb,cxqucjsangcmupgcvqqwcsocqo b,cgqqtcHugcskcxqucoqgs b
foxgnsoa--.bvsesujcqeckbybe--rfwbcjbcfgcqo btcHugcgnbebc fo’gchbtttt”



 NFIGBEcSS

Efzujsnsocrfwb.cuicobdgcjqeosoacfgcbsangcq’ vq w,cgequhvb.cfo.cpbesqupt
Nbckquo.cnsjpbvkc qokeqogb.crsgncjfoxcobrcfo.cuovqqwb.-kqecibeivbdsgsbpt
Nbcnf.cobybecbdib gb.cgnfgcnbcrquv.cbybecrfwbcuickbbvsoacvswbcgnfgtcNb
ebjbjhbeb.cbybexc.bgfsvcqkcgnbciebysqupc.fxcfo.cnbcwobrcgnfgcfcibekb gvx
oqybvcbdibesbo bcnf.chbkfvvbocnsj,cgnfgcnbcnf.ceb bsyb.cfocsjiebppsqo
uovswbcfoxgnsoacnbcnf.cwoqrochbkqebtcFgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcnbceb qaospb.
 vbfevxcgnfgcgnbc.ebfjcrns ncnf.ckseb.cnspcsjfasofgsqocrfpcnqibvbppvx
uofggfsofhvb--pqcuofggfsofhvbcgnfgcnbckbvgciqpsgsybvxcfpnfjb.cqkcsg,cfo.
nbcnfpgbob.cgqcifppcgqcgnbcqgnbecjqebcief gs fvc febpcfo.c.skks uvgsbp
hblubfgnb.cnsjchxcgnfgc“gnes bcf  uepb.cxbpgbe.fxt”

Gnbcjqpgcfrkuvceb qvvb gsqocqkcgnbciebysqupc.fxcrfpcgnbcrfxcnbcnf.cpnqro
nsjpbvkc“hfpbcfo.cjbfo,”coqgcqovxchb fupbcnbcnf.chbboc.euow,chug
hb fupbcnbcnf.cgfwbocf.yfogfabcqkcgnbcxquoacasev’pciqpsgsqocgqcfhupb
nbec_ksfo é_csocnspcpguis.cmbfvqupx,cwoqrsoacoqgnsoacqkcgnbsecjugufv
ebvfgsqopcfo.cqhvsafgsqopcfo.cobdgcgqcoqgnsoacqkcgnbcjfocnsjpbvktcFo.
rnfgcesangcnf.cnbcgqc esgs spbcnsjcsocgnfgcnfpgxcfo.cuoaufe.b.cjfoobe?
Rnqcnf.cfpwb.ckqecnspcqisosqo?cRfpcsgcgnsowfhvbcgnfgcpu ncfc ebfguebcfp
Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcrquv.chbcjfeexsoacfocuorqegnxcjfockqecjqobx?cPqcgnbeb
jupgchbcpqjbgnsoacsocnsjtcGnbcvq.asoap?cHugcfkgbecfvvcnqrc quv.cnbcwoqr
gnbc nfef gbecqkcgnbcvq.asoap?cNbcrfpckueospnsoacfckvfgtttcKqq!cnqr
.bpis fhvbcsgcfvvcrfp!cFo.crnfgcmupgsks fgsqocrfpcsgcgnfgcnbcrfpc.euow?
Pu ncfcpguis.cbd upbcrfpcbybocjqebc.baef.soa!cSocrsobcspcgeugn,cfo.cgnb
geugncnf.cfvvc qjbcqug,c“gnfgcsp,cfvvcgnbcuo vbfoobppcqkcnspc qfepb
fo.cboysqupcnbfeg”!cFo.crquv.cpu ncfc.ebfjcbybechbcibejsppshvbcgq
nsj,cEfzujsnso?cRnfgcrfpcnbchbps.bcpu ncfcasev--nb,cgnbc.euowbocoqspx
hefaafegcqkcvfpgcosang?cRfpcsgciqppshvbcgqcsjfasobcpqcfhpue.cfo.c xos fv
fcmudgfiqpsgsqo?cEfzujsnsochvupnb.c.bpibefgbvxcfgcgnbcybexcs.bfcfo.
pu..bovxcgnbceb qvvb gsqockqe b.csgpbvkcysys.vxcuiqocnsjcqkcnqrcnbcnf.
pfs.cvfpgcosangcqocgnbcpgfsepcgnfgcgnbcvfo.vf.xcrquv.chbcmbfvqupcqk
Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoftttcgnfgcrfpcpsjivxcsogqvbefhvbtcNbchequangcnspckspg
.qrocnbfysvxcqocgnbcwsg nbocpgqyb,cnuegcnspcnfo.cfo.cpbogcqobcqkcgnb
hes wpckvxsoat

“Qkc quepb,”cnbcjuggbeb.cgqcnsjpbvkcfcjsougbcvfgbecrsgncfckbbvsoacqk
pbvk-fhfpbjbog,c“qkc quepb,cfvvcgnbpbcsokfjsbpc focobybechbcrsib.cqugcqe
pjqqgnb.cqybetttcfo.cpqcsg’pcupbvbppcbybocgqcgnsowcqkcsg,cfo.cScjupg
aqcgqcgnbjcsocpsvbo bcfo.c.qcjxc.ugxtttcsocpsvbo b,cgqqtttcfo.coqgcfpw
kqeasybobpp,cfo.cpfxcoqgnsoatttckqecfvvcspcvqpgcoqr!”

Fo.cxbgcfpcnbc.ebppb.cnbcbdfjsob.cnspcfggsebcjqebc febkuvvxcgnfocupufvt
Nbcnf.o’gcfoqgnbecpusg--skcnbcnf.cnf.,cibenfipcnbcrquv.o’gcnfybciugcsg
qotc“Scrquv.cnfybcjf.bcfciqsogcqkcoqgciuggsoacsgcqot”cHugcsocfoxc fpbcnb
 quv.coqgcebjfsocfc xos cfo.cfc.segxcpvqybo;cnbcnf.coqcesangcgqcqkkbo.
gnbckbbvsoapcqkcqgnbep,cbpib sfvvxcrnbocgnbxcrbebcsocobb.cqkcnsp
fppspgfo bcfo.cfpwsoacnsjcgqcpbbcgnbjtcNbcheupnb.cnspc vqgnbpc febkuvvxt
Nspcvsobocrfpcfvrfxpc.b bog;csocgnfgcebpib gcnbcrfpcbpib sfvvxc vbfot

Nbcrfpnb.cgnfgcjqeosoacp euiuvqupvx--nbcaqgcpqjbcpqfickeqjcOfpgfpxf--nb
rfpnb.cnspcnfse,cnspcob wcfo.cbpib sfvvxcnspcnfo.ptcRnbocsgc fjbcgqcgnb
lubpgsqocrnbgnbecgqcpnfybcnspcpguhhvxc nsocqecoqgc(IefpwqyxfcIfyvqyof
nf.c fisgfvcefzqepcgnfgcnf.chbbocvbkgchxcnbecvfgbcnuphfo.),cgnbclubpgsqo
rfpcfoaesvxcfoprbeb.csocgnbcobafgsybtc“Vbgcsgcpgfxcfpcsgcsp!cRnfgcsk
gnbxcgnsowcgnfgcScpnfyb.cqociueiqpbcgqttt?cGnbxc begfsovxcrquv.cgnsow
pq!cOqgcqocfoxcf  quog!”

“Fo.tttcgnbcrqepgcqkcsgcrfpcnbcrfpcpqc qfepb,cpqc.segx,cnbcnf.cgnb
jfoobepcqkcfciqgnqupb;cfo.tttcfo.cbybocf.jsggsoacgnfgcnbcwobrcnbcnf.
pqjbcqkcgnbcbppbogsfvpcqkcfcabogvbjfotttcrnfgcrfpcgnbebcsocgnfgcgqchb
iequ.cqk?cBybexqobcquangcgqchbcfcabogvbjfocfo.cjqebcgnfocgnfgtttcfo.cfvv
gnbcpfjbc(nbcebjbjhbeb.)cnb,cgqq,cnf.c.qobcvsggvbcgnsoaptttcoqgcbdf gvx
.spnqobpg,cfo.cxbgttttcFo.crnfgcgnquangpcnbcpqjbgsjbpcnf.;cnjtttcfo.cgq
pbgcfvvcgnfgchbps.bcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof!c qokquo.csg!cPqchbcsg!cRbvv,cnb’.
jfwbcfciqsogcgnbocqkchbsoac.segx,caebfpx,ciqgnqupbcsocnspcjfoobepcfo.cnb
rquv.o’gc feb!cNb’.chbcrqepb!”

Nbcrfpcboafab.csocpu ncjqoqvqaubpcrnbocZqppsjqy,crnqcnf.cpibogcgnbcosang
socIefpwqyxfcIfyvqyof’pcifevque,c fjbcsot

Nbcrfpcaqsoacnqjbcfo.crfpcsocfcnueexcgqcvqqwcfgcgnbcsoyfvs.cksepgt
Efzujsnsocsokqejb.cnsjcgnfgcEfpwqvoswqycrfpcpvbbisoacvswbcfc.qejqupbt
Zqppsjqycafybcqe.bepcgnfgcgnbxcpnquv.o’gcrfwbcnsjcfo.cieqjspb.cgqcpbb
nsjcfafsocfhqugcbvbybot

“Skcnbcspcpgsvvcfgcnqjb,”cnbcf..b.tc“.fjocsgcfvv!cSkcqobc fo’gc qogeqv
qob’pcifgsbogp,cnqrcspcqobcgqc uebcgnbj?c.qcxqucwoqrcrnbgnbec_nb_crsvv
aqcgqcgnbj,cqecrnbgnbec_gnbx_cfebc qjsoacnbeb?”

“Gnbxcfebc qjsoa,cScgnsow,”cpfs.cEfzujsnso,cuo.bepgfo.soacgnbcqhmb g
qkcgnbclubpgsqo,c“fo.cgnbxcrsvvc.sp uppcgnbseckfjsvxcfkkfsep,coqc.quhgt
S’vvchbcqkktcXqu,cfpcgnbc.q gqe,cnfybcjqebcesangcgqchbcnbebcgnfocSt”

“HugcScfjcoqgcfckfgnbec qokbppqe;cScpnfvvc qjbcfo.caqcfrfx;cS’ybcivbogx
gqc.qchbps.bpcvqqwsoacfkgbecgnbjt”

“Qobcgnsoacrqeesbpcjb,”csogbeiqpb.cEfzujsnso,ckeqrosoatc“Qocgnbcrfxcnqjb
Scgfvwb.cfcvqgcqkc.euowbocoqopbopbcgqcnsjtttcfvvcpqegpcqkcgnsoaptttcfo.
fjqoapgcgnbjcgnfgcxqucrbebcfkefs.cgnfgcnbtttcjsangchb qjbcsopfobt”

“Xqucgqv.cgnbcvf.sbpcpq,cgqqt”

“Scwoqrcsgcrfpcpguis.!cXqucjfxchbfgcjbcskcxqucvswb!c.s.cxqucgnsowcpq
pbesqupvx?”

“Gnfg’pcoqopbopb,cScgbvvcxqu,cnqrc quv.cScgnsowcsgcpbesqupvx?cXqu,
xquepbvk,c.bp eshb.cnsjcfpcfcjqoqjfosf crnbocxquckbg nb.cjbcgq
nsjtttcfo.crbcf..b.ckubvcgqcgnbcksebcxbpgbe.fx,cxquc.s.,cgnfgcsp,crsgn
xquecpgqexcfhqugcgnbcifsogbe;csgcrfpcfcos bc qoybepfgsqo,crnbocnbcrfp,
ibenfip,cjf.cqocgnfgcybexciqsog!cSkcqovxcS’.cwoqrocrnfgcnfiibob.cgnbo
fgcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqocfo.cgnfgcpqjbcrebg ntttcnf.csopuvgb.cnsjcrsgncgnsp
pupis sqo!cNjtttcScrquv.coqgcnfybcfvvqrb.cgnfgc qoybepfgsqocxbpgbe.fxt
Gnbpbcjqoqjfosf pcrsvvcjfwbcfcjquogfsocqugcqkcfcjqvb-nsvvtttcfo.
pbbcgnbseckfo sbpcfpcpqvs.cebfvsgsbpttttcFpckfecfpcScebjbjhbe,csgcrfp
Zfjbgqy’pcpgqexcgnfgc vbfeb.cuicnfvkcgnbcjxpgbex,cgqcjxcjso.tcRnx,cS
woqrcqobc fpbcsocrns ncfcnxiq nqo.esf ,cfcjfocqkckqegx,c ugcgnbcgneqfg
qkcfcvsggvbchqxcqkcbsang,chb fupbcnbc quv.o’gcbo.uebcgnbcmqwbpcnbcjf.b
bybexc.fxcfgcgfhvb!cFo.csocgnspc fpbcnspcefap,cgnbcsopqvbogciqvs b
qkks be,cgnbckbybecfo.cgnspcpupis sqo!cFvvcgnfgcrqewsoacuiqocfcjfocnfvk
kefogs crsgncnxiq nqo.esf,cfo.crsgncnspcjqehs.cbd bigsqofvcyfosgx!cGnfg
jfxcrbvvcnfybchbbocgnbcpgfegsoa-iqsogcqkcsvvobpptcRbvv,chqgnbecsg
fvv!tttcFo.,chxcgnbcrfx,cgnfgcZfjbgqyc begfsovxcspcfcos bckbvvqr,chug
njtttcnbcpnquv.o’gcnfybcgqv.cfvvcgnfgcvfpgcosangtcNbcspcfocfrkuv
 nfggbehqd!”

“Hugcrnqjc.s.cnbcgbvvcsgcgq?cXqucfo.cjb?”

“Fo.cIqeksext”

“Rnfgc.qbpcgnfgcjfggbe?”

“Fo.,chxcgnbcrfx,cnfybcxqucfoxcsokvubo bcqocgnbj,cnspcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbe?
Gbvvcgnbjcgqchbcjqebc febkuvcrsgncnsjcgq-.fxtttt”

“Gnbx’vvcabgcqocfvvcesang!”cEfzujsnsocfoprbeb.cebvu gfogvxt

“RnxcspcnbcpqcpbgcfafsopgcgnspcVuznso?cFcjfocrsgncjqobxcfo.cpnbc.qbpo’g
pbbjcgqc.spvswbcnsjtttcfo.cgnbxcnfybo’gcfckfegnsoa,cScpuiiqpb?cbn?”

“Hugcrnfgchupsobppcspcsgcqkcxquep?”cEfzujsnsoc esb.crsgncfooqxfo btc“Nqr
 focScgbvvcrnbgnbecgnbx’ybcfckfegnsoa?cFpwcgnbjcxquepbvkcfo.cibenfip
xqu’vvckso.cqugtttt”

“Kqq!crnfgcfocfppcxqucfebcpqjbgsjbp!cVfpgcosang’pcrsobcnfpcoqgcaqobcqkk
xbgttttcAqq.-hxb;cgnfowcxquecIefpwqyxfcIfyvqyofckeqjcjbckqecjxcosang’p
vq.asoatcPnbcvq wb.cnbepbvkcso,cjf.bcoqcebivxcgqcjxc_hqomque_cgnequan
gnbc.qqe;cpnbcrfpcuicfgcpbybocq’ vq w,cgnbcpfjqyfecrfpcgfwbocsogqcnbe
keqjcgnbcwsg nbotcScrfpcoqgcyqu npfkb.cfcibepqofvcsogbeysbrtttt”

Fgcosobcq’ vq wcieb spbvxcEfzujsnsocebf nb.cgnbcvq.asoapcfgcHfwfvbxby’p
nqupbtcHqgncvf.sbpcrbebcrfsgsoackqecnsjcrsgncobeyqupcsjifgsbo btcGnbx
nf.cespbocfgcpbybocq’ vq wcqecbfevsbetcNbcbogbeb.cvqqwsoacfpchvf wcfp
osang,chqrb.cfrwrfe.vxcfo.crfpcfgcqo bckuesqupcrsgncnsjpbvkckqecsgtcNb
nf.ceb wqob.crsgnqugcnspcnqpg:cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofckfsevxceupnb.cfg
nsj,cpbszb.cnsjchxchqgncnfo.pcfo.crfpcfvjqpgcwsppsoacgnbjtcNbcavfo b.
gsjs.vxcfgcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,chugcnbeciequ.c quogbofo bcrqebcfgcgnfg
jqjbogcfocbdiebppsqocqkcpu ncaefgsgu.bcfo.ckesbo.vsobpp,cpu n
 qjivbgbcfo.cuovqqwb.-kqecebpib gc(socivf bcqkcgnbcpobbesoacvqqwpcfo.
svv-.spauspb.c qogbjigcnbcnf.cbdib gb.),cgnfgcsgcgnebrcnsjcsogqcaebfgbe
 qokupsqocgnfocskcnbcnf.chbbocjbgcrsgncfhupbtcKqeguofgbvxcgnbebcrfpcf
puhmb gckqec qoybepfgsqo,cfo.cnbcjf.bcnfpgbcgqcpofg ncfgcsgt

Nbfesoacgnfgcbybexgnsoacrfpcaqsoacrbvvcfo.cgnfgcEq.xfcnf.coqgcxbgcrfwb.,
Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofc.b vfeb.cgnfgcpnbcrfpcavf.cgqcnbfecsg,chb fupb
“pnbcnf.cpqjbgnsoacrns ncsgcrfpcybex,cybexcob bppfexcgqcgfvwcqybe
hbkqebnfo.t”cGnbockqvvqrb.cfocsolusexcfhqugchebfwkfpgcfo.cfocsoysgfgsqo
gqcnfybcsgcrsgncgnbj;cgnbxcnf.crfsgb.cgqcnfybcsgcrsgncnsjtcFy.qgxf
Eqjfoqyofcefoacgnbchbvv:csgcrfpcfoprbeb.chxcfcefaab.c.segxcrfsgbe,cfo.
gnbxcfpwb.cnsjcgqchesoacgbfcrns ncrfpcpbeyb.cfgcvfpg,chugcsocpu n
fc.segxcfo.c.spqe.bevxcrfxcgnfgcgnbcvf.sbpcrbebcfpnfjb.tcEfzujsnso
ysaqequpvxcfggf wb.cgnbcvq.asoap,chug,cebjbjhbesoacVuznso,cpgqiib.
socbjhfeefppjbogcfo.crfpcaebfgvxcebvsbyb.chxcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof’p
lubpgsqop,crns ncpnqrbeb.csocfc qogsoufvcpgebfjcuiqocnsjt

Nbcgfvwb.ckqecgnebbclufegbepcqkcfocnque,chbsoac qopgfogvxcsogbeeuigb.
hxcgnbseclubpgsqop,cfo.cpu  bb.b.csoc.bp eshsoacgqcgnbjcfvvcgnb
jqpgcsjiqegfogckf gpcnbcwobrcqkcgnbcvfpgcxbfecqkcEfpwqvoswqy’pcvskb,
 qo vu.soacrsgncfc se ujpgfogsfvcf  quogcqkcnspcsvvobpptcNbcqjsggb.,
nqrbybe,cjfoxcgnsoap,crns ncrbebchbggbecqjsggb.,cso vu.soacgnbcp bobcfg
gnbciqvs bcpgfgsqocrsgncfvvcsgpc qopblubo bptcGnbxcvspgbob.cbfabevx
gqcnspcpgqex,cfo.,crnbocnbcgnquangcnbcnf.cksospnb.cfo.cpfgspksb.cnsp
vspgbobep,cnbckquo.cgnfgcgnbxc qops.beb.cnbcnf.cnfe.vxchbauot

“Gbvvcjb,cgbvvcjb!cRnfgc.qcxqucgnsowttt?cBd upbcjb,cScpgsvvc.qo’gcwoqr
xquecofjb!”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofciugcsocnfpgsvxt

“.jsgescIeqwqksg nt”

“Scpnquv.cvswbcybex,cybexcju ncgqcwoqr,c.jsgescIeqwqksg ntttcnqrcnb
vqqwptttcqocgnsoapcsocabobefvcoqr,cgnfgcsp,cnqrc focScbdivfso,crnfgcfeb
nspcvswbpcfo.c.spvswbp?cSpcnbcfvrfxpcpqcseesgfhvb?cGbvvcjb,cskcxquc fo,
rnfgcfebcnspcnqibpcfo.,cpqcgqcpfx,cnspc.ebfjp?cUo.becrnfgcsokvubo bpcsp
nbcoqr?cSocfcrqe.,cScpnquv.cvswbttt”

“Fn,cjqgnbe,cnqrc focnbcfoprbecfvvcgnfgcfgcqo b?”cqhpbeyb.c.quosft

“Aqq.cnbfybop,cScnf.coqgcbdib gb.cgqckso.cnsjcsocgnbcvbfpgcvswbcgnsp,
.jsgescIeqwqksg n!”

“Ofguefvvx,”cfoprbeb.cEfzujsnsotc“Scnfybcoqcjqgnbe,chugcjxcuo vbc qjbp
bybexcxbfecfo.cfvjqpgcbybexcgsjbcnbc focp fe bvxceb qaospbcjb,cbybocso
fiibfefo b,cgnquancnbcspcfc vbybecjfo;cfo.cxquecgnebbcxbfep’cpbifefgsqo
jbfopcfcaebfgc.bfvtcRnfgcfjcScgqcgbvvcxqu?cScnfybcwoqrocEq.sqockqe
fcxbfecfo.cfcnfvk;cnbcspcjqeqpb,cavqqjx,ciequ.cfo.cnfuangx,cfo.cqk
vfgb--fo.cibenfipckqecfcvqoacgsjbchbkqeb--nbcnfpchbbocpupis squpcfo.
kfo skuvtcNbcnfpcfcoqhvbcofguebcfo.cfcwso.cnbfegtcNbc.qbpcoqgcvswb
pnqrsoacnspckbbvsoapcfo.crquv.cefgnbec.qcfc eubvcgnsoacgnfocqibocnsp
nbfegckebbvxtcPqjbgsjbp,cgnquan,cnbcspcoqgcfgcfvvcjqehs.,chugcpsjivx
 qv.cfo.csonujfovxc fvvqup;csg’pcfpcgnquancnbcrbebcfvgbeofgsoachbgrbbo
grqc nfef gbeptcPqjbgsjbpcnbcspckbfekuvvxcebpbeyb.!cNbcpfxpcnbcsp
pqchupxcgnfgcbybexgnsoacspcfcnso.efo b,cfo.cxbgcnbcvsbpcsochb.c.qsoa
oqgnsoatcNbc.qbpo’gcmbbecfgcgnsoap,coqgchb fupbcnbcnfpo’gcgnbcrsg,chug
fpcgnquancnbcnf.o’gcgsjbcgqcrfpgbcqocpu ncgeskvbptcNbcobybecvspgbop
gqcrnfgcspcpfs.cgqcnsjtcNbcspcobybecsogbebpgb.csocrnfgcsogbebpgpcqgnbe
ibqivbcfgcfoxcasybocjqjbogtcNbcgnsowpcybexcnsanvxcqkcnsjpbvkcfo.cibenfip
nbcspcesangtcRbvv,crnfgcjqeb?cScgnsowcxquecfeesyfvcrsvvcnfybcfcjqpg
hbobks sfvcsokvubo bcuiqocnsjt”

“Aq.caefogcsgcjfx,”c esb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,c.spgebppb.chx
Efzujsnso’pcf  quogcqkcnbecEq.xft

Fo.cEfzujsnsocybogueb.cgqcvqqwcjqebchqv.vxcfgcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcfgcvfpgt
Nbcavfo b.cfgcnbecqkgbocrnsvbcnbcrfpcgfvwsoa,chugcqovxckqecfcjqjbogcfo.
vqqwb.cfrfxcfafsocfgcqo btcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcpfgcfgcgnbcgfhvb,cvspgbosoa
fggbogsybvx,cgnbocaqgcuicfafsocfo.chbafocrfvwsoacgqcfo.ckeqcrsgncnbe
fejpckqv.b.cfo.cnbecvsipc qjiebppb.,cq  fpsqofvvxciuggsoacsocfclubpgsqo,
rsgnqugcpgqiisoacnbecrfvwtcPnbcnf.cgnbcpfjbcnfhsgcqkcoqgcvspgbosoacgq
rnfgcrfpcpfs.tcPnbcrfpcrbfesoacfc.ebppcqkcgnsoc.fewcpgukkcfo.cpnbcnf.cf
rnsgbcgefopifebogcp fekcequo.cnbecob wtcEfzujsnsocpqqoc.bgb gb.cpsaopcqk
bdgebjbciqybegxcsocgnbsechbvqoasoaptcNf.cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofchbboc.ebppb.
vswbcfclubbo,cnbckbvgcgnfgcnbcrquv.coqgchbcfkefs.cqkcnbe,chugcibenfip
mupgchb fupbcpnbcrfpciqqevxc.ebppb.cfo.cgnfgcnbcoqgs b.cfvvcgnbcjspbex
qkcnbecpueequo.soap,cnspcnbfegcrfpcksvvb.crsgnc.ebf.cfo.cnbchbafocgqchb
fkefs.cqkcbybexcrqe.cnbcuggbeb.,cbybexcabpguebcnbcjf.b,crns ncrfpcybex
gexsoackqecfcjfocrnqcfvebf.xckbvgc.skks.bogt

“Xqu’ybcgqv.cupcfcaebfgc.bfvcgnfgcspcsogbebpgsoacfhqugcjxcheqgnbe’p
 nfef gbetttcfo.cnfybcgqv.csgcsjifegsfvvxtcScfjcavf.tcScgnquangcgnfgcxqu
rbebcgqqcuo esgs fvvxc.byqgb.cgqcnsj,”cqhpbeyb.cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcrsgn
fcpjsvbtc“Scgnsowcxqucfebcesangcgnfgcnbcobb.pcfcrqjfo’pc feb,”cpnbcf..b.
gnquangkuvvxt

“Sc.s.o’gcpfxcpq;chugcSc.febpfxcxqucfebcesang,cqovxttt”

“Rnfg?”

“Nbcvqybpcoqcqobcfo.cibenfipcnbcobybecrsvv,”cEfzujsnsoc.b vfeb.
.b spsybvxt

“Xqucjbfocnbcspcoqgc fifhvbcqkcvqyb?”

“.qcxqucwoqr,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,cxqucfebcfrkuvvxcvswbcxquecheqgnbe,cso
bybexgnsoa,cso.bb.!”cnbchvuegb.cqugcpu..bovxcgqcnspcqrocpueiespb,chug
ebjbjhbesoacfgcqo bcrnfgcnbcnf.cmupgchbkqebcpfs.cqkcnbecheqgnbe,
nbcgueob.cfpceb.cfpcfc efhcfo.crfpcqybe qjbcrsgnc qokupsqotcFy.qgxf
Eqjfoqyofc quv.o’gcnbvicvfuansoacrnbocpnbcvqqwb.cfgcnsjt

“XqucjfxchqgnchbcjspgfwbocfhqugcEq.xf,”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcebjfewb.,
pvsangvxcislub.tc“Scfjcoqgcgfvwsoacqkcqueciebpbogc.skks uvgx,c.quosft
RnfgcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncresgbpcsocgnspcvbggbecfo.crnfgcxqucfo.cScnfyb
puiiqpb.cjfxchbcjspgfwbo,chugcxquc fo’gcsjfasob,c.jsgescIeqwqksg n,cnqr
jqq.xcfo.,cpqcgqcpfx,c fies squpcnbcsptcScobybec quv.c.bibo.cqocrnfg
nbcrquv.c.qcrnbocnbcrfpcqovxckskgbbotcFo.cScfjcpuebcgnfgcnbcjsang
.qcpqjbgnsoacoqrcgnfgcoqhq.xcbvpbcrquv.cgnsowcqkc.qsoatttcRbvv,ckqe
sopgfo b,c.qcxqucwoqrcnqrcfcxbfecfo.cfcnfvkcfaqcnbcfpgquo.b.cjbcfo.cafyb
jbcfcpnq wcgnfgcobfevxcwsvvb.cjb,crnbocnbcnf.cgnbcs.bfcqkcjfeexsoacgnfg
asev--rnfgcrfpcnbecofjb--nspcvfo.vf.x’pc.fuangbe?”

“.s.cxqucnbfecfhqugcgnfgcfkkfse?”cfpwb.cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoft

“.qcxqucpuiiqpb----”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofc qogsoub.crfejvxtc“.qcxqu
puiiqpbcgnfgcjxcgbfep,cjxcbogebfgsbp,cjxcsvvobpp,cjxciqppshvbc.bfgnckeqj
aesbk,cqueciqybegxcrquv.cnfybcjf.bcnsjcifupb?cOq,cnbcrquv.c fvjvxcnfyb
.spebafe.b.cfvvcqhpgf vbptcFo.cxbgcsgcspo’gcgnfgcnbc.qbpo’gcvqybcup!”

“Nbcnfpcobybecpiqwbocfcrqe.cqkcgnfgcfkkfsecgqcjb,”cEfzujsnsocfoprbeb.
 fugsqupvxtc“HugcSc.s.cnbfecpqjbgnsoackeqjcIefpwqyxfcIfyvqyofcnbepbvk,
gnquancpnbcspchxcoqcjbfopcfcaqppsitcFo.crnfgcScnbfe.c begfsovxcrfp
efgnbecpgefoabt”

“Fo.crnfgc.s.cxqucnbfe?”chqgncgnbcvf.sbpcfpwb.cfgcqo bt

“Rbvv,coqgnsoacybexcpib sfvtcScqovxcvbfeob.cgnfgcgnbcjfeesfab,crns n
qovxckfsvb.cgqcgfwbcivf bcgnequancgnbcasev’pc.bfgn,crfpcoqgcfgcfvvcgq
IefpwqyxfcIfyvqyof’pcvswsoatcGnbxcpfx,cgqq,cgnbcasevcrfpcoqgcfgcfvv
iebggx,csockf gcScfjcgqv.ciqpsgsybvxcuavxtttcfo.cpu ncfocsoyfvs.tttcfo.
lubbetcHugcpnbcpbbjpcgqcnfybcnf.cpqjbcaqq.clufvsgsbptcPnbcjupgcnfyb
nf.cpqjbcaqq.clufvsgsbpcqecsg’pclusgbcsobdivs fhvbttttcPnbcnf.coqcjqobx
bsgnbecfo.cnbcrquv.o’gcnfybc qops.beb.cnbecjqobxttttcHugcsg’pcfvrfxp
.skks uvgcgqcmu.abcsocpu ncjfggbept”

“Scfjcpuebcpnbcrfpcfcaqq.casev,”cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcqhpbeyb.chesbkvxt

“Aq.ckqeasybcjb,cScpsjivxcebmqs b.cfgcnbec.bfgntcGnquancSc.qo’gcwoqr
rns ncqkcgnbjcrquv.cnfybc fupb.cjqpgcjspbexcgqcgnbcqgnbe--nbcgqcnbe
qecpnbcgqcnsj,”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofc qo vu.b.tcGnbocpnbchbafo
gbogfgsybvxclubpgsqosoacnsjcfhqugcgnbcp bobcqocgnbciebysqupc.fxcrsgn
Vuznso,cnbpsgfgsoacfo.c qogsoufvvxcavfo soacfgc.quosf,cqhysqupvxcgq
gnbcvfggbe’pcfooqxfo btcGnspcso s.bogcjqebcgnfocfvvcgnbcebpgcbys.bogvx
 fupb.cnbecuobfpsobpp,cbyboc qopgbeofgsqotcEfzujsnsoc.bp eshb.csgcso
.bgfsvcfafso,chugcgnspcgsjbcnbcf..b.cnspcqroc qo vupsqop:cnbcqibovx
hvfjb.cEfpwqvoswqyckqecsogbogsqofvvxcsopuvgsoacIxqgecIbgeqysg n,coqg
pbbwsoacgqcbd upbcnsjcqocgnbcp qebcqkcnspcsvvobppt

“Nbcnf.civfoob.csgchbkqebcnspcsvvobpp,”cnbcf..b.t

“Scgnsowcpq,cgqq,”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcfaebb.crsgncfc.bmb gb.cfset
Hugcpnbcrfpcybexcju ncpueiespb.cfgcnbfesoacEfzujsnsocbdiebppcnsjpbvk
pqc febkuvvxcfo.cbybocrsgncfc begfsocebpib gcfhqugcIxqgecIbgeqysg nt
Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,cgqq,crfpcpgeu wchxcsgt

“PqcgnspcspcxquecqisosqocqkcIxqgecIbgeqysg n?”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof
 quv.coqgcebpspgcfpwsoat

“Sc focnfybcoqcqgnbecqisosqocqkcxquec.fuangbe’pckuguebcnuphfo.,”
cEfzujsnsocfoprbeb.cksejvxcfo.crsgncrfejgn,c“fo.cSc.qo’gcpfxcsgcpsjivx
keqjcyuvafeciqvsgbobpp,chugchb fupbtttcpsjivxchb fupbcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof
nfpcqkcnbecqrockebbcrsvvc.bsaob.cgqcf  bigcgnspcjfotcSkcScpiqwbcpq
eu.bvxcqkcnsjcvfpgcosang,csgcrfpchb fupbcScrfpc.spaupgsoavxc.euowcfo.ttt
jf.chbps.bp;cxbp,cjf.,c efzx,cScvqpgcjxcnbf.c qjivbgbvxtttcfo.cgnsp
jqeosoacScfjcfpnfjb.cqkcsgt”

Nbc esjpqob.cfo.c bfpb.cpibfwsoatcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofckvupnb.,chugc.s.coqg
hebfwcgnbcpsvbo btcPnbcnf.coqgcuggbeb.cfcrqe.ckeqjcgnbcjqjbogcgnbxchbafo
gqcpibfwcqkcVuznsot

RsgnqugcnbecpuiiqegcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcqhysqupvxc.s.coqgcwoqrcrnfg
gqc.qtcFgcvfpg,ckfvgbesoacfo.c qogsoufvvxcavfo soacfgcnbec.fuangbe,cpnb
 qokbppb.cgnfgcpnbcrfpcbd bb.soavxcrqeesb.chxcqobc se ujpgfo bt

“Xqucpbb,c.jsgescIeqwqksg n,”cpnbchbafotc“S’vvchbcibekb gvxcqibocrsgn
.jsgescIeqwqksg n,c.quosf?”

“Qkc quepb,cjqgnbe,”cpfs.cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcbjinfgs fvvxt

“Gnspcspcrnfgcsgcsp,”cpnbchbafocsocnfpgb,cfpcgnquancgnbcibejsppsqocgq
pibfwcqkcnbecgequhvbcvskgb.cfcrbsangcqkkcnbecjso.tc“Ybexcbfevxcgnsp
jqeosoacrbcaqgcfcoqgbckeqjcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncsocebivxcgqcquecvbggbe
fooquo soacquecfeesyfvtcNbcieqjspb.cgqcjbbgcupcfgcgnbcpgfgsqo,cxqu
woqr;csopgbf.cqkcgnfgcnbcpbogcfcpbeyfogcgqchesoacupcgnbcf..ebppcqkcgnbpb
vq.asoapcfo.cgqcpnqrcupcgnbcrfx;cfo.cnbcpbogcfcjbppfabcgnfgcnbcrquv.
hbcnbebcnsjpbvkcgnspcjqeosoatcHugcgnspcjqeosoacgnspcoqgbc fjbckeqjcnsjt
Xqu’.chbggbecebf.csgcxquepbvk;cgnbebcspcqobciqsogcsocsgcrns ncrqeesbpcjb
ybexcju ntttcxqucrsvvcpqqocpbbcrnfgcgnfgcsp,cfo.tttcgbvvcjbcxquec fo.s.
qisosqo,c.jsgescIeqwqksg n!cXqucwoqrcEq.xf’pc nfef gbechbggbecgnfo
foxqobcfo.coqcqobc focf.yspbcupchbggbecgnfocxquc fotc.quosf,cScjupgcgbvv
xqu,cjf.bcnbec.b spsqocfgcqo b,chugcScpgsvvc.qo’gckbbvcpuebcnqrcgqcf g
fo.cStttcS’ybchbbocrfsgsoackqecxquecqisosqot”

Efzujsnsocqibob.cgnbcoqgbcrns ncrfpc.fgb.cgnbciebysqupcbybosoacfo.cebf.
fpckqvvqrp:

“.bfecJf.fj,cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,cScnfybcgnbcnqoquecgqcsokqejcxqu
gnfgcqrsoacgqcuokqebpbbocqhpgf vbpcScrfpcebo.beb.cuofhvbcgqcjbbgcxqucfg
gnbcefsvrfxcpgfgsqo;cScpbogcfcybexc qjibgbogcibepqocrsgncgnbcpfjbcqhmb g
socysbrtcScvswbrspbcpnfvvchbc.biesyb.cqkcgnbcnqoquecqkcfocsogbeysbrcrsgn
xqucgq-jqeeqrcjqeosoachxchupsobppcsocgnbcPbofgbcgnfgc.qbpcoqgcf.jsgcqk
.bvfx,cfo.cfvpqcgnfgcScjfxcoqgcsogeu.bcqocxqueckfjsvxc se vbcrnsvbcxqu
febcjbbgsoacxquecpqo,cfo.cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcnbecheqgnbetcScpnfvvcnfyb
gnbcnqoquecqkcyspsgsoacxqucfo.cifxsoacxqucjxcebpib gpcfgcxquecvq.asoap
oqgcvfgbecgnfocgq-jqeeqrcbybosoacfgcbsangcq’ vq wcieb spbvx,cfo.
nbebrsgncScyboguebcgqciebpbogcjxcbfeobpgcfo.,cScjfxcf..,csjibefgsyb
eblubpgcgnfgcEq.sqocEqjfoqysg ncjfxcoqgchbciebpbogcfgcquecsogbeysbr--fp
nbcqkkbeb.cjbcfcaeqppcfo.cuoieb b.bogb.cfkkeqogcqocgnbcq  fpsqocqkcjx
yspsgcgqcnsjcsocnspcsvvobppcxbpgbe.fx,cfo.,cjqebqybe,cpso bcSc.bpseb
keqjcxqucibepqofvvxcfocso.spibopfhvbcfo.c se ujpgfogsfvcbdivfofgsqo
uiqocfc begfsociqsog,csocebafe.cgqcrns ncScrspncgqcvbfeocxquecqro
sogbeiebgfgsqotcScnfybcgnbcnqoquecgqcsokqejcxqu,csocfogs sifgsqo,
gnfgcsk,csocpisgbcqkcjxceblubpg,cScjbbgcEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cScpnfvvchb
 qjibvvb.cgqcrsgn.efrcsjjb.sfgbvxcfo.cgnbocxqucnfybcqovxcxquepbvkcgq
hvfjbtcScresgbcqocgnbcfppujigsqocgnfgcEq.sqocEqjfoqysg ncrnqcfiibfeb.cpq
svvcfgcjxcyspsg,cpu..bovxceb qybeb.cgrqcnquepcvfgbecfo.cpq,chbsoacfhvb
gqcvbfybcgnbcnqupb,cjfxcyspsgcxqucfvpqtcScrfpc qoksejb.csocgnfgchbvsbk
hxcgnbcgbpgsjqoxcqkcjxcqrocbxbpcsocgnbcvq.asoacqkcfc.euowbocjfocrnq
rfpceuocqybecfo.cnfpcpso bc.sb.,cgqcrnqpbc.fuangbe,cfcxquoacrqjfocqk
oqgqesqupchbnfysque,cnbcafybcgrbogx-ksybcequhvbpcqocgnbciebgbdgcqkcgnb
kuobefv,crns ncaefybvxcpueiespb.cjbcwoqrsoacrnfgcifsopcxqucrbebcfgcgq
efspbcgnfgcpujtcNbebrsgncbdiebppsoacjxcpib sfvcebpib gcgqcxquecbpgsjfhvb
.fuangbe,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,cSchbacxqucgqcf  bigcgnbcebpib gkuvcnqjfab
qk

“Xquecnujhvbcpbeyfog,

“ItcVUZNSOt”


“RnfgcfjcScgqc.qcoqr,c.jsgescIeqwqksg n?”chbafocIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,
fvjqpgcrbbisoatc“Nqrc focScfpwcEq.xfcoqgcgqc qjb?cXbpgbe.fxcnbcsopspgb.
pqcbfeobpgvxcqocquecebkupsoacIxqgecIbgeqysg ncfo.coqrcrbcfebcqe.beb.coqg
gqceb bsybcEq.xf!cNbcrsvvc qjbcqociueiqpbcskcnbcwoqrp,cfo.tttcrnfgcrsvv
nfiibocgnbo?”

“F gcqocFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof’pc.b spsqo,”cEfzujsnsocfoprbeb.c fvjvxcfg
qo bt

“Qn,c.bfecjb!cPnbcpfxptttcaqq.obppcwoqrpcrnfgcpnbcpfxp,cpnbc.qbpo’g
bdivfsocnbecqhmb g!cPnbcpfxpcgnfgcsgcrquv.chbchbpg,cfgcvbfpg,coqgcgnfg
sgcrquv.chbchbpg,chugcgnfgcsg’pcfhpqvugbvxcob bppfexcgnfgcEq.xfcpnquv.
jfwbcfciqsogcqkchbsoacnbebcfgcbsangcq’ vq wcfo.cgnfgcgnbxcjupgcjbbgtttt
Sc.s.o’gcrfogcbybocgqcpnqrcnsjcgnbcvbggbe,chugcgqciebybogcnsj
keqjc qjsoachxcpqjbcpgefgfabjcrsgncxquecnbvitttchb fupbcnbcspcpq
seesgfhvbttttcHbps.bpcSc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.cfhqugcgnfgc.euowfe.crnqc.sb.
fo.cgnfgc.fuangbe,cfo.cnqrcnbc quv.cnfybcasybocgnbc.fuangbecfvvcgnb
jqobxtttcrns nttt”

“Rns nc qpgcxqucpu ncpf esks b,cjqgnbe,”ciugcsocFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoft

“Nbcrfpcoqgcnsjpbvkcxbpgbe.fx,”cEfzujsnsocpfs.cgnquangkuvvx,c“skcxqu
qovxcwobrcrnfgcnbcrfpcuicgqcsocfcebpgfuefogcxbpgbe.fx,cgnquancgnbeb
rfpcpbopbcsocsgcgqqttttcNj!cNbc.s.cpfxcpqjbgnsoa,cfpcrbcrbebcaqsoacnqjb
xbpgbe.fxcbybosoa,cfhqugcfc.bf.cjfocfo.cfcasev,chugcSc.s.o’gcuo.bepgfo.
fcrqe.ttttcHugcvfpgcosang,cScjxpbvkttt”

“Gnbchbpgcgnsoa,cjqgnbe,crsvvchbckqecupcgqcaqcgqcnsjcquepbvybpcfo.
gnbebcScfppuebcxqucrbcpnfvvcpbbcfgcqo bcrnfg’pcgqchbc.qobtcHbps.bp,
sg’pcabggsoacvfgb--aqq.cnbfybop,csg’pcifpgcgbo,”cpnbc esb.cvqqwsoacfg
fcpivbo.s.caqv.cbofjbvvb.crfg ncrns ncnuoacequo.cnbecob wcqocfcgnso
Ybobgsfoc nfso,cfo.cvqqwb.cbogsebvxcqugcqkcwbbisoacrsgncgnbcebpgcqkcnbe
.ebpptc“Fciebpbogckeqjcnbec_ksfo é_,”cgnquangcEfzujsnsot

“Rbcjupgcpgfeg,c.quosf,crbcjupgcpgfeg,”cnbecjqgnbec esb.csocfckvuggbet
“Nbcrsvvchbcgnsowsoacrbcfebcpgsvvcfoaexcfkgbecxbpgbe.fx,ckeqjcquec qjsoa
pqcvfgbtcJbe skuvcnbfybop!”

Rnsvbcpnbcpfs.cgnspcpnbcrfpcnueesb.vxciuggsoacqocnbecnfgcfo.cjfogvb;
.quosf,cgqq,ciugcqocnbecgnsoaptcNbecavqybp,cfpcEfzujsnsocoqgs b.,crbeb
oqgcjbebvxcpnfhhxchugcnf.cnqvbpcsocgnbj,cfo.cxbgcgnspcbys.bogciqybegx
afybcgnbcgrqcvf.sbpcfocfsecqkcpib sfvc.saosgx,crns ncspcfvrfxpckquo.cso
ibqivbcrnqcwoqrcnqrcgqcrbfeciqqec vqgnbptcEfzujsnsocvqqwb.cebybebogvx
fgc.quosfcfo.ckbvgciequ.cqkcbp qegsoacnbetc“Gnbclubbocrnqcjbo.b.cnbe
pgq wsoapcsociespqo,”cnbcgnquang,c“jupgcnfybcvqqwb.cgnbocbybexcso ncf
lubbocfo.cbybocjqebcfclubbocgnfocfgcpujiguqupchfolubgpcfo.cvbyébpt”

“JxcAq.!”cbd vfsjb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,c“vsggvbc.s.cScgnsowcgnfgcS
pnquv.cbybeckbfecpbbsoacjxcpqo,cjxc.fevsoa,c.fevsoacEq.xf!cScfjcfkefs.,
.jsgescIeqwqksg n,”cpnbcf..b.,cavfo soacfgcnsjcgsjs.vxt

“.qo’gchbcfkefs.,cjqgnbe,”cpfs.c.quosf,cwsppsoacnbe,c“hbggbecnfybckfsgn
socnsjt”

“Qn,c.bfe,cScnfybckfsgncsocnsj,chugcScnfybo’gcpvbigcfvvcosang,”
cbd vfsjb.cgnbciqqecrqjfot

Gnbxc fjbcqugcsogqcgnbcpgebbgt

“.qcxqucwoqr,c.quosf,crnbocSc.qzb.cfcvsggvbcgnspcjqeosoacSc.ebfjb.cqk
JfekfcIbgeqyoftttcpnbcrfpcfvvcsocrnsgbtttcpnbc fjbcuicgqcjb,cgqqw
jxcnfo.,cfo.cpnqqwcnbecnbf.cfgcjb,chugcpqcpgbeovxcfpcgnquancpnbcrbeb
hvfjsoacjbttttcSpcgnfgcfcaqq.cqjbo?cQn,c.bfecjb!cXquc.qo’gcwoqr,c.jsges
Ieqwqksg n,cgnfgcJfekfcIbgeqyof’pc.bf.!”

“Oq,cSc.s.o’gcwoqr;crnqcspcJfekfcIbgeqyof?”

“Pnbc.sb.cpu..bovx;cfo.cqovxckfo xttt”

“Fkgberfe.p,cjfjjf,”ciugcsoc.quosftc“Nbc.qbpo’gcwoqrcrnqcJfekfcIbgeqyof
spt”

“Fn,cxquc.qo’gcwoqr?cFo.cScrfpcgnsowsoacgnfgcxqucwobrcfvvcfhqugcupt
Kqeasybcjb,c.jsgescIeqwqksg n,cSc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcScfjcgnsowsoacfhqug
gnbpbcvfpgckbrc.fxptcScvqqwcuiqocxqucebfvvxcfpcfcieqys.bo bckqecup,cfo.
pqcScgqqwcsgckqecaefogb.cgnfgcxqucwobrcfvvcfhqugcuptcScvqqwcqocxqucfpcf
ebvfgsqottttc.qo’gchbcfoaexcrsgncjbckqecpfxsoacpqtc.bfecjb,crnfg’pcgnb
jfggbecrsgncxquecesangcnfo.?cNfybcxqucwoq wb.csg?”

“Xbp,cScheuspb.csg,”cjuggbeb.cEfzujsnsocqybemqxb.t

“Scpqjbgsjbpcpibfwcgqqcju nckeqjcgnbcnbfeg,cpqcgnfgc.quosfckso.pckfuvg
rsgncjbttttcHug,c.bfecjb,crnfgcfc uihqfe.cnbcvsybpcso!cScrqo.becrnbgnbe
nbcspcfrfwb?c.qbpcgnspcrqjfo,cnspcvfo.vf.x,c qops.becsgcfceqqj?cVspgbo,
xqucpfxcnbc.qbpcoqgcvswbcgqcpnqrcnspckbbvsoap,cpqcibenfipcScpnfvvcfooqx
nsjcrsgncjxtttcrbfwobppbp?c.qcf.yspbcjb,c.jsgescIeqwqksg n,cnqrcfjcScgq
gebfgcnsj?cSckbbvclusgbc.spgef gb.,cxqucwoqrt”

“.qo’gclubpgsqocnsjcgqqcju ncfhqugcfoxgnsoacskcxqucpbbcnsjckeqro;c.qo’g
fpwcnsjcgqqcju ncfhqugcnspcnbfvgn;cnbc.qbpo’gcvswbcgnfgt”

“Fn,c.jsgescIeqwqksg n,cnqrcnfe.csgcspcgqchbcfcjqgnbe!cHugcnbebcfebcgnb
pgfsepttttcRnfgcfocfrkuvcpgfse fpb!”

“Jqgnbe,cxqucfebclusgbcifvb,c.qo’gc.spgebppcxquepbvk,c.fevsoa,”cpfs.
.quosfc febppsoacnbe,cgnbocrsgnckvfpnsoacbxbpcpnbcf..b.:c“Nbcquangcgqchb
nfiixcfgcpbbsoacxqu,cfo.cxqucfebcgqejbogsoacxquepbvkcpqt”

“Rfsg,cS’vvcibbicsocfo.cpbbcrnbgnbecnbcnfpcrfwb.cuit”

Gnbcvf.sbpcpvqrvxckqvvqrb.cEfzujsnso,crnqcrbogcqochbkqeb,cfo.crnbocgnbx
ebf nb.cgnbcvfo.vf.x’pc.qqecqocgnbckquegncpgqebx,cgnbxcoqgs b.cgnfgcnbe
.qqecrfpcfcgsoxc ef wcqibocfo.cgnfgcgrqcwbbochvf wcbxbpcrbebcrfg nsoa
gnbjckeqjcgnbc.fewobppcrsgnsotcRnbocgnbsecbxbpcjbg,cgnbc.qqecrfp
pu..bovxcpnugcrsgncpu ncfcpvfjcgnfgcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcfvjqpgc esb.
qugt



 NFIGBEcSSS

“Nbcspcrbvv,clusgbcrbvv!”cZqppsjqyc esb.c nbbekuvvxcfpcgnbxcbogbeb.t

Nbcnf.c qjbcsocgbocjsougbpcbfevsbecfo.crfpcpsggsoacsocgnbcpfjbcivf b
fpchbkqeb,cqocgnbcpqkftcEfpwqvoswqycrfpcpsggsoacsocgnbcqiiqpsgbc qeobe,
kuvvxc.ebppb.cfo.c febkuvvxcrfpnb.cfo.c qjhb.,cfpcnbcnf.coqgchbbockqe
pqjbcgsjbcifpgtcGnbceqqjcrfpcsjjb.sfgbvxc eqr.b.,cxbgcOfpgfpxfcjfofab.
gqckqvvqrcgnbcyspsgqepcsocfo.cpgfxb.cgqcvspgbot

Efpwqvoswqycebfvvxcrfpcfvjqpgcrbvv,cfpc qjifeb.crsgncnspc qo.sgsqocgnb
.fxchbkqeb,chugcnbcrfpcpgsvvcifvb,cvspgvbpp,cfo.cpqjhebtcNbcvqqwb.cvswb
fcrquo.b.cjfocqecqobcrnqcnfpcuo.beaqobcpqjbcgbeeshvbcinxps fvcpukkbesoat
Nspcheqrpcrbebcwosggb.,cnspcvsipc qjiebppb.,cnspcbxbpckbybespntcNbcpiqwb
vsggvbcfo.cebvu gfogvx,cfpcgnquancibekqejsoacfc.ugx,cfo.cgnbebcrfpcf
ebpgvbppobppcsocnspcjqybjbogpt

Nbcqovxcrfogb.cfcpvsoacqocnspcfejcqecfchfo.fabcqocnspcksoabecgqc qjivbgb
gnbcsjiebppsqocqkcfcjfocrsgncfcifsokuvcfhp bppcqecfcheqwbocfejtcGnb
ifvb,cpqjhebckf bcvsangb.cuickqecfcjqjbogcrnbocnspcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbe
bogbeb.,chugcgnspcqovxcafybcsgcfcvqqwcqkcjqebcsogbopbcpukkbesoa,cso
ivf bcqkcsgpcvspgvbppc.bmb gsqotcGnbcvsangcpqqoc.sb.cfrfx,chugcgnbcvqqw
qkcpukkbesoacebjfsob.,cfo.cZqppsjqy,crfg nsoacfo.cpgu.xsoacnspcifgsbog
rsgncfvvcgnbczbpgcqkcfcxquoac.q gqechbasoosoacgqcief gspb,coqgs b.
socnsjcoqcmqxcfgcgnbcfeesyfvcqkcnspcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbe,chugcfcpqegcqk
hsggbe,cns..boc.bgbejsofgsqocgqchbfecfoqgnbecnquecqecgrqcqkcsobysgfhvb
gqeguebtcNbcpfrcvfgbecgnfgcfvjqpgcbybexcrqe.cqkcgnbckqvvqrsoa
 qoybepfgsqocpbbjb.cgqcgqu ncqocpqjbcpqebcivf bcfo.cseesgfgbcsgtcHug
fgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcnbcjfeybvvb.cfgcgnbciqrbecqkc qogeqvvsoacnsjpbvk
fo.cns.soacnspckbbvsoapcsocfcifgsbogcrnqcgnbciebysqupc.fxcnf.,cvswbcf
jqoqjfosf ,ckfvvbocsogqcfckebozxcfgcgnbcpvsangbpgcrqe.t

“Xbp,cScpbbcjxpbvkcoqrcgnfgcScfjcfvjqpgcrbvv,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,
asysoacnspcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbecfcwsppcqkcrbv qjbcrns ncjf.bcIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyofcef.sfogcfgcqo btc“Fo.cSc.qo’gcpfxcgnspc_fpcSc.s.
xbpgbe.fx_,”cnbcpfs.,cf..ebppsoacEfzujsnso,crsgncfckesbo.vxciebppuebcqk
nspcnfo.t

“Xbp,cso.bb.,cScfjclusgbcpueiespb.cfgcnsjcgq-.fx,”chbafocZqppsjqy,cju n
.bvsangb.cfgcgnbcvf.sbp’cbogefo b,ckqecnbcnf.coqgcpu  bb.b.csocwbbisoa
uicfc qoybepfgsqocrsgncnspcifgsbogckqecgbocjsougbptc“Socfoqgnbecgnebbcqe
kquec.fxp,cskcnbcaqbpcqocvswbcgnsp,cnbcrsvvchbcmupgcfpchbkqeb,cgnfgcsp,
fpcnbcrfpcfcjqogncfaq,cqecgrqtttcqecibenfipcbybocgnebbtcGnspcnfpchbbo
 qjsoacqockqecfcvqoacrnsvbttttcbn?c qokbpp,coqr,cgnfgcsgcnfpchbbo
ibenfipcxquecqrockfuvg?”cnbcf..b.,crsgncfcgbogfgsybcpjsvb,cfpcgnquan
pgsvvcfkefs.cqkcseesgfgsoacnsjt

“Sgcspcybexciqppshvb,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqyc qv.vxt

“Scpnquv.cpfx,cgqq,”c qogsoub.cZqppsjqycrsgnczbpg,c“gnfgcxquec qjivbgb
eb qybexc.bibo.pcpqvbvxcqocxquepbvktcOqrcgnfgcqobc focgfvwcgqcxqu,
Scpnquv.cvswbcgqcsjiebppcuiqocxqucgnfgcsgcspcbppbogsfvcgqcfyqs.cgnb
bvbjbogfex,cpqcgqcpibfw,ckuo.fjbogfvc fupbpcgbo.soacgqcieq.u bcxque
jqehs.c qo.sgsqo:csocgnfgc fpbcxqucrsvvchbc ueb.,cskcoqg,csgcrsvvcaq
keqjchf.cgqcrqepbtcGnbpbckuo.fjbogfvc fupbpcSc.qo’gcwoqr,chugcgnbxcjupg
hbcwoqrocgqcxqutcXqucfebcfocsogbvvsabogcjfo,cfo.cjupgcnfybcqhpbeyb.
xquepbvk,cqkc quepbtcSckfo xcgnbcksepgcpgfabcqkcxquec.befoabjbog
 qso s.bpcrsgncxquecvbfysoacgnbcuosybepsgxtcXqucjupgcoqgchbcvbkgcrsgnqug
q  uifgsqo,cfo.cpq,crqewcfo.cfc.bksosgbcfsjcpbgchbkqebcxqucjsang,cS
kfo x,chbcybexchbobks sfvt”

“Xbp,cxbp;cxqucfebcibekb gvxcesangttttcScrsvvcjfwbcnfpgbcfo.cebgueocgq
gnbcuosybepsgx:cfo.cgnbocbybexgnsoacrsvvcaqcpjqqgnvxtttt”

Zqppsjqy,crnqcnf.chbauocnspcpfabcf.ys bcifegvxcgqcjfwbcfocbkkb gchbkqeb
gnbcvf.sbp,crfpc begfsovxcpqjbrnfgcjxpgsksb.,crnbo,cavfo soacfgcnsp
ifgsbog,cnbcqhpbeyb.cuojspgfwfhvbcjq wbexcqocnspckf btcGnspcvfpgb.
focsopgfog,cnqrbybetcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofchbafocfgcqo bcgnfowsoa
Zqppsjqy,cbpib sfvvxckqecnspcyspsgcgqcgnbsecvq.asoacgnbciebysqupcosangt

“Rnfg!cnbcpfrcxqucvfpgcosang?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.,cfpcgnquancpgfegvb.t
“Gnbocxqucnfybcoqgcpvbigcbsgnbecfkgbecxquecmqueobxt”

“F n,cEq.xf,cgnfgcrfpcqovxcgsvvcgrqcq’ vq wtc.quosfcfo.cScobybecaqcgq
hb.chbkqebcgrqcfgcnqjbt”

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrcnqrcgqcgnfowcnsjcbsgnbe,”cEfpwqvoswqycrbogcqo,
pu..bovxckeqrosoacfo.cvqqwsoac.qrotc“Pbggsoacfps.bcgnbclubpgsqocqk
ifxjbog--kqeasybcjbckqecebkbeesoacgqcsgc(nbcgueob.cgqcZqppsjqy)--S
ebfvvxc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcScnfybc.qobcgqc.bpbeybcpu ncpib sfvcfggbogsqo
keqjcxqu!cScpsjivxc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.csgtttcfo.tttcfo.tttcsgcrbsanpcuiqo
jb,cso.bb.,chb fupbcSc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.csgtcScgbvvcxqucpqc fo.s.vxt”

“.qo’gchbcseesgfgb.t”cZqppsjqyckqe b.cnsjpbvkcgqcvfuantc“Fppujbcgnfgcxqu
febcjxcksepgcifgsbog--rbvv--rbckbvvqrpcmupgchbasoosoacgqcief gspbcvqyb
quecksepgcifgsbogpcfpcskcgnbxcrbebcquec nsv.ebo,cfo.cpqjbcfvjqpgckfvvcso
vqybcrsgncgnbjtcFo.,cqkc quepb,cScfjcoqgces ncsocifgsbogpt”

“Scpfxcoqgnsoacfhqugcnsj,”cf..b.cEfpwqvoswqy,ciqsogsoacgqcEfzujsnso,
“gnquancnbcnfpcnf.coqgnsoackeqjcjbcbsgnbechugcsopuvgcfo.cgequhvbt”

“Rnfgcoqopbopbcnbcspcgfvwsoa!cRnx,cxqucfebcsocfcpbogsjbogfvcjqq.cgq-.fx,
febcxqu?”cpnqugb.cEfzujsnsot

Skcnbcnf.cnf.cjqebcibobgefgsqocnbcrquv.cnfybcpbbocgnfgcgnbebcrfpcoq
gef bcqkcpbogsjbogfvsgxcsocnsj,chugcpqjbgnsoacso.bb.clusgbcgnbcqiiqpsgbt
HugcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcoqgs b.csgtcPnbcrfpcsogbogvxcfo.cuobfpsvxcrfg nsoa
nbecheqgnbet

“Fpckqecxqu,cjqgnbe,cSc.qo’gc.febcgqcpibfw,”cnbcrbogcqo,cfpcgnquan
ebibfgsoacfcvbppqocvbfeob.chxcnbfegtc“Sgcspcqovxcgq-.fxcgnfgcScnfyb
hbbocfhvbcgqcebfvspbcfcvsggvbcnqrc.spgebppb.cxqucjupgcnfybchbbocnbeb
xbpgbe.fx,crfsgsoackqecjbcgqc qjbchf wt”

Rnbocnbcnf.cpfs.cgnsp,cnbcpu..bovxcnbv.cqugcnspcnfo.cgqcnspcpspgbe,
pjsvsoacrsgnqugcfcrqe.tcHugcsocgnspcpjsvbcgnbebcrfpcfckvfpncqkcebfv
uokbsaob.ckbbvsoatc.quosfc fuangcsgcfgcqo b,cfo.crfejvxciebppb.cnsp
nfo.,cqybemqxb.cfo.cgnfowkuvtcSgcrfpcgnbcksepgcgsjbcnbcnf.cf..ebppb.cnbe
pso bcgnbsec.spiugbcgnbciebysqupc.fxtcGnbcjqgnbe’pckf bcvsangb.cui
rsgncb pgfgs cnfiisobppcfgcgnbcpsangcqkcgnspc qo vupsybcuopiqwbo
eb qo svsfgsqotc“Xbp,cgnfgcspcrnfgcScvqybcnsjckqe,”cEfzujsnso,
bdfaabefgsoacsgcfvv,cjuggbeb.cgqcnsjpbvk,crsgncfcysaqequpcgueocsocnsp
 nfsetc“Nbcnfpcgnbpbcjqybjbogpt”

“Fo.cnqrcrbvvcnbc.qbpcsgcfvv,”cgnbcjqgnbecrfpcgnsowsoacgqcnbepbvktc“Rnfg
abobequpcsjiuvpbpcnbcnfp,cfo.cnqrcpsjivx,cnqrc.bvs fgbvxcnbciugcfocbo.
gqcfvvcgnbcjspuo.bepgfo.soacrsgncnspcpspgbe--psjivxchxcnqv.soacqugcnsp
nfo.cfgcgnbcesangcjsougbcfo.cvqqwsoacfgcnbecvswbcgnfgttttcFo.crnfg
ksobcbxbpcnbcnfp,cfo.cnqrcksobcnspcrnqvbckf bcsp!tttcNbcspcbybochbggbe
vqqwsoacgnfoc.quosfttttcHug,caqq.cnbfybop,crnfgcfcpusg--nqrcgbeeshvx
nb’pc.ebppb.!tttcYfpxf,cgnbcjbppboabechqxcsocFkfofpxcSyfosg n’pcpnqi,csp
hbggbec.ebppb.!cSc quv.ceupncfgcnsjcfo.cnuacnsjtttcrbbicqybecnsj--hug
Scfjcfkefs.ttttcQn,c.bfe,cnb’pcpqcpgefoab!cNb’pcgfvwsoacwso.vx,chugcS’j
fkefs.!cRnx,crnfgcfjcScfkefs.cqk?ttt”

“Qn,cEq.xf,cxqucrquv.o’gchbvsbyb,”cpnbchbafocpu..bovx,csocnfpgbcgq
foprbecnspcrqe.pcgqcnbe,c“nqrcuonfiixc.quosfcfo.cScrbebcxbpgbe.fx!cOqr
gnfgcsg’pcfvvcqybecfo.c.qobcrsgncfo.crbcfebclusgbcnfiixcfafso--Sc fo
gbvvcxqutcKfo x,crbcefocnbebcfvjqpgcpgefsangckeqjcgnbcgefsocgqcbjhef b
xqucfo.cgnfgcrqjfo--fn,cnbebcpnbcsp!cAqq.cjqeosoa,cOfpgfpxf!tttcPnbcgqv.
upcfgcqo bcgnfgcxqucrbebcvxsoacsocfcnsanckbybecfo.cnf.cmupgceuocfrfx
keqjcgnbc.q gqecsoc.bvsesuj,cfo.cgnbxcrbebcvqqwsoackqecxqucsocgnb
pgebbgptcXquc fo’gcsjfasobcnqrcrbckbvg!cSc quv.o’gcnbvicgnsowsoacqkcgnb
gefas cbo.cqkcVsbugbofogcIqgfo nswqy,cfckesbo.cqkcxqueckfgnbe’p--xqu
 fo’gcebjbjhbecnsj,cEq.xf--rnqcefocqugcsocgnbcpfjbcrfxcsocfcnsanckbybe
fo.ckbvvcsogqcgnbcrbvvcsocgnbc queg-xfe.cfo.cgnbxc quv.o’gciuvvcnsjcqug
gsvvcobdgc.fxtcQkc quepb,crbcbdfaabefgb.cgnsoaptcRbcrbebcqocgnbciqsogcqk
eupnsoacgqckso.cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncgqcfpwcnsjcgqcnbvittttcHb fupbcrbcrbeb
fvqob,cuggbevxcfvqob,”cpnbcpfs.civfsogsybvxcfo.cpgqiib.cpnqeg,
pu..bovx,ceb qvvb gsoacsgcrfpcpgsvvcpqjbrnfgc.foabequpcgqcpibfwcqkcIxqge
Ibgeqysg n,cfvgnquanc“rbcfebclusgbcnfiixcfafsot”

“Xbp,cxbpttttcQkc quepbcsg’pcybexcfooqxsoatttt”cEfpwqvoswqycjuggbeb.cso
ebivx,chugcrsgncpu ncfciebq  uisb.cfo.csofggbogsybcfsecgnfgc.quosfcafzb.
fgcnsjcsocibeivbdsgxt

“RnfgcbvpbcrfpcsgcScrfogb.cgqcpfx?”cNbcrbogcqocgexsoacgqceb qvvb gtc“Qn,
xbp;cjqgnbe,cfo.cxqucgqq,c.quosf,civbfpbc.qo’gcgnsowcgnfgcSc.s.o’gcjbfo
gqc qjbcfo.cpbbcxqucgq-.fxcfo.crfpcrfsgsoackqecxqucgqc qjbcksepgt”

“Rnfgcfebcxqucpfxsoa,cEq.xf?”c esb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoftcPnb,cgqq,
rfpcpueiespb.t

“Spcnbcfoprbesoacupcfpcfc.ugx?”c.quosfcrqo.beb.tc“Spcnbchbsoaceb qo svb.
fo.cfpwsoackqeasybobppcfpcgnquancnbcrbebcibekqejsoacfcesgbcqecebibfgsoa
fcvbppqo?”

“S’ybcqovxcmupgcrfwb.cui,cfo.crfogb.cgqcaqcgqcxqu,chugcrfpc.bvfxb.cqrsoa
gqcjxc vqgnbp;cSckqeaqgcxbpgbe.fxcgqcfpwcnbetttcOfpgfpxftttcgqcrfpncqug
gnbchvqq.tttcS’ybcqovxcmupgc.ebppb.t”

“Hvqq.!cRnfgchvqq.?”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcfpwb.csocfvfejt

“Qn,coqgnsoa--.qo’gchbcuobfpxtcSgcrfpcrnbocScrfpcrfo.besoacfhqug
xbpgbe.fx,cefgnbec.bvsesqup,cSc nfo b.cuiqocfcjfocrnqcnf.chbboceuo
qybetttcfc vbewttt”

“.bvsesqup?cHugcxqucebjbjhbecbybexgnsoa!”cEfzujsnsocsogbeeuigb.t

“Gnfg’pcgeub,”cEfpwqvoswqycfoprbeb.crsgncpib sfvc febkuvobpptc“S
ebjbjhbecbybexgnsoacbybocgqcgnbcpvsangbpgc.bgfsv,cfo.cxbg--rnxcSc.s.
gnfgcfo.crbogcgnbebcfo.cpfs.cgnfg,cSc fo’gc vbfevxcbdivfsocoqrt”

“Fckfjsvsfecinboqjboqo,”csogbeiqpb.cZqppsjqy,c“f gsqopcfebcpqjbgsjbp
ibekqejb.csocfcjfpgbevxcfo.cjqpgc uoosoacrfx,crnsvbcgnbc.seb gsqocqkcgnb
f gsqopcspc.befoab.cfo.c.bibo.bogcqocyfesqupcjqehs.csjiebppsqop--sg’p
vswbcfc.ebfjt”

“Ibenfipcsg’pcfcaqq.cgnsoacebfvvxcgnfgcnbcpnquv.cgnsowcjbcfvjqpgcf
jf.jfo,”cgnquangcEfpwqvoswqyt

“Rnx,cibqivbcsocibekb gcnbfvgncf gcsocgnbcpfjbcrfxcgqq,”cqhpbeyb.
.quosf,cvqqwsoacuobfpsvxcfgcZqppsjqyt

“Gnbebcspcpqjbcgeugncsocxquecqhpbeyfgsqo,”cgnbcvfggbecebivsb.tc“Socgnfg
pbopbcrbcfebc begfsovxcfvvcoqgcsokeblubogvxcvswbcjf.jbo,chugcrsgncgnb
pvsangc.skkbebo bcgnfgcgnbc.befoab.cfebcpqjbrnfgcjf..be,ckqecrb
jupgc.efrcfcvsobtcFcoqejfvcjfo,csgcspcgeub,cnfe.vxcbdspgptcFjqoa
.qzbop--ibenfipcnuo.eb.pcqkcgnqupfo.p--nfe.vxcqobcspcgqchbcjbgcrsgnt”

Fgcgnbcrqe.c“jf.jfo,”c febvbppvxc.eqiib.chxcZqppsjqycsocnspc nfggbecqo
nspckfyquesgbcpuhmb g,cbybexqobckeqrob.t

Efpwqvoswqycpfgcpbbjsoacoqgcgqcifxcfggbogsqo,civuoab.csocgnquangcrsgncf
pgefoabcpjsvbcqocnspcifvbcvsiptcNbcrfpcpgsvvcjb.sgfgsoacqocpqjbgnsoat

“Rbvv,crnfgcfhqugcgnbcjfocrnqcrfpceuocqybe?cScsogbeeuigb.cxqu!”
cEfzujsnsoc esb.cnfpgsvxt

“Rnfg?”cEfpwqvoswqycpbbjb.cgqcrfwbcuitc“QntttcScaqgcpifggbeb.crsgn
hvqq.cnbvisoacgqc feexcnsjcgqcnspcvq.asoatcHxcgnbcrfx,cjfjjf,cSc.s.cfo
uoife.qofhvbcgnsoacxbpgbe.fxtcScrfpcvsgbefvvxcqugcqkcjxcjso.tcScafyb
frfxcfvvcgnbcjqobxcxqucpbogcjbtttcgqcnspcrskbckqecgnbckuobefvtcPnb’p
fcrs.qrcoqr,csoc qopujigsqo,cfciqqec ebfguebtttcgnebbcvsggvbc nsv.ebo,
pgfeysoatttcoqgnsoacsocgnbcnqupbtttcgnbeb’pcfc.fuangbe,cgqqtttcibenfip
xqu’.cnfybcasybocsgcxquepbvkcskcxqu’.cpbbocgnbjtcHugcScnf.coqcesangcgq
.qcsgcScf.jsg,cbpib sfvvxcfpcScwobrcnqrcxqucobb.b.cgnbcjqobxcxquepbvkt
Gqcnbvicqgnbepcqobcjupgcnfybcgnbcesangcgqc.qcsg,cqecbvpbc_ ebybz,
 nsbop,cpscyqupco’êgbpcifpc qogbogp_t”cNbcvfuanb.,c“Gnfg’pcesang,cspo’g
sg,c.quosf?”

“Oq,csg’pcoqg,”cfoprbeb.c.quosfcksejvxt

“Hfn!cxqu,cgqq,cnfybcs.bfvp,”cnbcjuggbeb.,cvqqwsoacfgcnbecfvjqpgcrsgn
nfgeb.,cfo.cpjsvsoacpfe fpgs fvvxtc“Scquangcgqcnfybc qops.beb.cgnfgtttt
Rbvv,cgnfg’pciefspbrqegnx,cfo.csg’pchbggbeckqecxqutttcfo.cskcxqucebf ncf
vsobcxqucrqo’gcqybepgbi,cxqucrsvvchbcuonfiixtttcfo.cskcxqucqybepgbicsg,
jfxhbcxqucrsvvchbcpgsvvcuonfiisbettttcHugcfvvcgnfg’pcoqopbopb,”cnbcf..b.
seesgfhvx,cybdb.cfgchbsoac feesb.cfrfxtc“ScqovxcjbfogcgqcpfxcgnfgcSchba
xqueckqeasybobpp,cjqgnbe,”cnbc qo vu.b.,cpnqegvxcfo.cfheuigvxt

“Gnfg’pcboquan,cEq.xf,cScfjcpuebcgnfgcbybexgnsoacxquc.qcspcybexcaqq.,”
cpfs.cnspcjqgnbe,c.bvsangb.t

“.qo’gchbcgqqcpueb,”cnbcfoprbeb.,cgrspgsoacnspcjqugncsogqcfcpjsvbt

Fcpsvbo bckqvvqrb.tcGnbebcrfpcfc begfsoc qopgefsogcsocfvvcgnsp
 qoybepfgsqo,cfo.csocgnbcpsvbo b,cfo.csocgnbceb qo svsfgsqo,cfo.csocgnb
kqeasybobpp,cfo.cfvvcrbebckbbvsoacsgt

“Sgcspcfpcgnquancgnbxcrbebcfkefs.cqkcjb,”cEfpwqvoswqycrfpcgnsowsoa
gqcnsjpbvk,cvqqwsoacfpwfo bcfgcnspcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbetcIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyofcrfpcso.bb.caeqrsoacjqebcgsjs.cgnbcvqoabecpnbcwbigcpsvbogt

“Xbgcsocgnbsecfhpbo bcScpbbjb.cgqcvqybcgnbjcpqcju n,”ckvfpnb.cgnequan
nspcjso.t

“.qcxqucwoqr,cEq.xf,cJfekfcIbgeqyofcspc.bf.,”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof
pu..bovxchvuegb.cqugt

“RnfgcJfekfcIbgeqyof?”

“Qn,cjbe xcqocup--JfekfcIbgeqyofcPys.esafïvqytcScreqgbcxqucpqcju ncfhqug
nbet”

“F-f-n!cXbp,cScebjbjhbettttcPqcpnb’pc.bf.!cQn,cebfvvx?”cnbcequpb.
nsjpbvkcpu..bovx,cfpcskcrfwsoacuitc“Rnfgc.s.cpnbc.sbcqk?”

“Qovxcsjfasob,clusgbcpu..bovx,”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcfoprbeb.
nueesb.vx,cbo quefab.chxcnspc uesqpsgxtc“Qocgnbcybexc.fxcScrfpcpbo.soa
xqucgnfgcvbggbe!cRquv.cxquchbvsbybcsg,cgnfgcfrkuvcjfocpbbjpcgqcnfybchbbo
gnbc fupbcqkcnbec.bfgntcGnbxcpfxcnbchbfgcnbec.ebf.kuvvxt”

“Rnx,crbebcgnbxcqocpu nchf.cgbejp?”cnbcfpwb.,cf..ebppsoacnspcpspgbet

“OqgcfgcfvvtcLusgbcgnbc qogefexcso.bb.tcRsgncnbe,cnbcrfpcfvrfxpcybex
ifgsbog,c qops.befgbcbybotcSockf g,cfvvcgnqpbcpbybocxbfepcqkcgnbse
jfeesb.cvskbcnbcafybcrfxcgqcnbe,cgqqcju ncpqcso.bb.,csocjfoxc fpbptcFvv
qkcfcpu..bocnbcpbbjpcgqcnfybcvqpgcifgsbo bt”

“Gnbocnbc quv.coqgcnfybchbbocpqcfrkuvcskcnbc qogeqvvb.cnsjpbvkckqecpbybo
xbfep?cXqucpbbjcgqchbc.bkbo.soacnsj,c.quosf?”

“Oq,coq,cnb’pcfocfrkuvcjfo!cSc focsjfasobcoqgnsoacjqebcfrkuv!”c.quosf
foprbeb.,cfvjqpgcrsgncfcpnu..be,cwosggsoacnbecheqrp,cfo.cpsowsoacsogq
gnquangt

“Gnfgcnf.cnfiibob.csocgnbcjqeosoa,”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrbogcqo
nueesb.vxtc“Fo.c.seb gvxcfkgberfe.pcpnbcqe.beb.cgnbcnqepbpcgqchb
nfeobppb.cgqc.esybcgqcgnbcgqrocsjjb.sfgbvxcfkgbec.soobetcPnbcfvrfxpcupb.
gqc.esybcgqcgnbcgqrocsocpu nc fpbptcPnbcfgbcfcybexcaqq.c.soobe,cScfj
gqv.tttt”

“Fkgbecgnbchbfgsoa?”

“Gnfgcrfpcfvrfxpcnbetttcnfhsg;cfo.csjjb.sfgbvxcfkgbec.soobe,cpqcfpcoqg
gqchbcvfgbcsocpgfegsoa,cpnbcrbogcgqcgnbchfgn-nqupbttttcXqucpbb,cpnbcrfp
uo.beaqsoacpqjbcgebfgjbogcrsgnchfgnptcGnbxcnfybcfc qv.cpiesoacgnbeb,cfo.
pnbcupb.cgqchfgnbcsocsgcebauvfevxcbybexc.fx,cfo.coqcpqqobecnf.cpnbcaqg
sogqcgnbcrfgbecrnbocpnbcpu..bovxcnf.cfcpgeqwb!”

“Scpnquv.cgnsowcpq,”cpfs.cZqppsjqyt

“Fo.c.s.cnbchbfgcnbechf.vx?”

“Rnfgc.qbpcgnfgcjfggbe!”ciugcsoc.quosft

“N’j!cHugcSc.qo’gcwoqrcrnxcxqucrfogcgqcgbvvcupcpu ncaqppsi,cjqgnbe,”
cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqycseesgfhvx,cfpcsgcrbebcsocpisgbcqkcnsjpbvkt

“Fn,cjxc.bfe,cSc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcgqcgfvwcfhqug,”cheqwbckeqjcIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyoft

“Rnx,cfebcxqucfvvcfkefs.cqkcjb?”cnbcfpwb.,crsgncfc qopgefsob.cpjsvbt

“Gnfg’pc begfsovxcgeub,”cpfs.c.quosf,cvqqwsoac.seb gvxcfo.cpgbeovxcfg
nbecheqgnbetc“Jqgnbecrfpc eqppsoacnbepbvkcrsgncgbeeqecfpcpnbc fjbcuicgnb
pgfsept”

Nspckf bcrqewb.,cfpcgnquancsoc qoyuvpsqot

“F n,crnfgcfebcxqucpfxsoa,c.quosf!c.qo’gchbcfoaex,civbfpb,cEq.xftttt
Rnxc.s.cxqucpfxcgnfg,c.quosf?”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofchbafo,
qybernbvjb.--“Xqucpbb,c qjsoacnbeb,cScrfpc.ebfjsoacfvvcgnbcrfx,csocgnb
gefso,cnqrcrbcpnquv.cjbbg,cnqrcrbcpnquv.cgfvwcqybecbybexgnsoa
gqabgnbettttcFo.cScrfpcpqcnfiix,cSc.s.coqgcoqgs bcgnbcmqueobx!cHugcrnfg
fjcScpfxsoa?cScfjcnfiixcoqrttttcXqucpnquv.coqg,c.quosfttttcScfjcnfiix
oqr--psjivxcsocpbbsoacxqu,cEq.xftttt”

“Nupn,cjqgnbe,”cnbcjuggbeb.csoc qokupsqo,coqgcvqqwsoacfgcnbe,chug
iebppsoacnbecnfo.tc“Rbcpnfvvcnfybcgsjbcgqcpibfwckebbvxcqkcbybexgnsoa!”

Fpcnbcpfs.cgnsp,cnbcrfpcpu..bovxcqybernbvjb.crsgnc qokupsqocfo.cgueob.
ifvbtcFafsocgnfgcfrkuvcpbopfgsqocnbcnf.cwoqrocqkcvfgbcifppb.crsgnc.bf.vx
 nsvvcqybecnspcpquvtcFafsocsgchb fjbcpu..bovxcivfsocfo.cibe bigshvbcgq
nsjcgnfgcnbcnf.cmupgcgqv.cfckbfekuvcvsb--gnfgcnbcrquv.cobybecoqrchb
fhvbcgqcpibfwckebbvxcqkcbybexgnsoa--gnfgcnbcrquv.cobybecfafsochbcfhvbcgq
_pibfw_cqkcfoxgnsoacgqcfoxqobtcGnbcfoauspncqkcgnspcgnquangcrfpcpu ncgnfg
kqecfcjqjbogcnbcfvjqpgckqeaqgcnsjpbvktcNbcaqgcuickeqjcnspcpbfg,cfo.coqg
vqqwsoacfgcfoxqobcrfvwb.cgqrfe.pcgnbc.qqet

“Rnfgcfebcxqucfhqug?”c esb.cEfzujsnso,c vug nsoacnsjchxcgnbcfejt

Nbcpfgc.qrocfafso,cfo.chbafocvqqwsoacfhqugcnsj,csocpsvbo btcGnbxcrbeb
fvvcvqqwsoacfgcnsjcsocibeivbdsgxt

“Hugcrnfgcfebcxqucfvvcpqc.uvvckqe?”cnbcpnqugb.,cpu..bovxcfo.clusgb
uobdib gb.vxtc“.qcpfxcpqjbgnsoa!cRnfg’pcgnbcupbcqkcpsggsoacvswbcgnsp?
 qjb,c.qcpibfwtcVbgcupcgfvwttttcRbcjbbgcgqabgnbecfo.cpsgcsocpsvbo btttt
 qjb,cfoxgnsoa!”

“GnfowcAq.;cScrfpcfkefs.cgnbcpfjbcgnsoacfpcxbpgbe.fxcrfpchbasoosoa
fafso,”cpfs.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,c eqppsoacnbepbvkt

“Rnfgcspcgnbcjfggbe,cEq.xf?”cfpwb.cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,c.spgeupgkuvvxt

“Qn,coqgnsoa!cScebjbjhbeb.cpqjbgnsoa,”cnbcfoprbeb.,cfo.cpu..bovx
vfuanb.t

“Rbvv,cskcxqucebjbjhbeb.cpqjbgnsoa;cgnfg’pcfvvcesang!tttcScrfpchbasoosoa
gqcgnsowttt”cjuggbeb.cZqppsjqy,cabggsoacuickeqjcgnbcpqkftc“Sgcspcgsjb
kqecjbcgqchbcqkktcScrsvvcvqqwcsocfafsocibenfiptttcskcSc fottt”cNbcjf.b
nspchqrp,cfo.crbogcqugt

“Rnfgcfocbd bvvbogcjfo!”cqhpbeyb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoft

“Xbp,cbd bvvbog,cpivbo.s.,crbvv-b.u fgb.,csogbvvsabog,”cEfpwqvoswqy
hbafo,cpu..bovxcpibfwsoacrsgncpueiespsoacefis.sgx,cfo.cfcvsybvsobppcnb
nf.coqgcpnqrocgsvvcgnbotc“Sc fo’gcebjbjhbecrnbebcScjbgcnsjchbkqebcjx
svvobppttttcSchbvsbybcScnfybcjbgcnsjcpqjbrnbeb----tttcFo.cgnspcspcfcaqq.
jfo,cgqq,”cnbcoq..b.cfgcEfzujsnsotc“.qcxqucvswbcnsj,c.quosf?”cnbcfpwb.
nbe;cfo.cpu..bovx,ckqecpqjbcuowoqrocebfpqo,cvfuanb.t

“Ybexcju n,”cfoprbeb.c.quosft

“Kqq!--rnfgcfcisacxqucfeb!”cEfzujsnsocieqgbpgb.,chvupnsoacsocgbeeshvb
 qokupsqo,cfo.cnbcaqgcuickeqjcnspc nfsetcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcpjsvb.
kfsogvx,chugcEfpwqvoswqycvfuanb.cfvqu.t

“Rnbebcfebcxqucqkkcgq?”

“Scjupgcaqt”

“Xqucobb.coqgcfgcfvvtcPgfxtcZqppsjqycnfpcaqob,cpqcxqucjupgtc.qo’gcaqt
Rnfg’pcgnbcgsjb?cSpcsgcgrbvybcq’ vq w?cRnfgcfciebggxcrfg ncxqucnfybcaqg,
.quosftcHugcrnxcfebcxqucfvvcpsvbogcfafso?cSc.qcfvvcgnbcgfvwsoat”

“SgcrfpcfciebpbogckeqjcJfekfcIbgeqyof,”cfoprbeb.c.quosft

“Fo.cfcybexcbdibopsybcqob!”cf..b.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoft

“F-fn!cRnfgcfchsacqob!cNfe.vxcvswbcfcvf.x’pt”

“Scvswbcgnfgcpqeg,”cpfs.c.quosft

“Pqcsgcspcoqgcfciebpbogckeqjcnbec_ksfo é_,”cgnquangcEfzujsnso,cfo.crfp
uoebfpqofhvxc.bvsangb.t

“ScgnquangcsgcrfpcVuznso’pciebpbog,”cqhpbeyb.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“Oq,cnbcnfpcoqgcjf.bc.quosfcfoxciebpbogpcxbgt”

“F-fn!cFo.c.qcxqucebjbjhbe,cjqgnbe,cScrfpcsocvqybcfo.crfogb.cgqcabg
jfeesb.?”cnbcpfs.cpu..bovx,cvqqwsoacfgcnspcjqgnbe,crnqcrfpc.sp qo begb.
hxcgnbcpu..boc nfoabcqkcpuhmb gcfo.cgnbcrfxcnbcpiqwbcqkcsgt

“Qn,cxbp,cjxc.bfet”

Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcbd nfoab.cavfo bpcrsgnc.quosfcfo.cEfzujsnsot

“N’j,cxbptcRnfgcpnfvvcScgbvvcxqu?cSc.qo’gcebjbjhbecju ncso.bb.tcPnbcrfp
pu ncfcps wvxcasev,”cnbcrbogcqo,caeqrsoac.ebfjxcfo.cvqqwsoac.qrocfafsot
“Lusgbcfocsoyfvs.tcPnbcrfpckqo.cqkcasysoacfvjpcgqcgnbciqqe,cfo.crfp
fvrfxpc.ebfjsoacqkcfcouoobex,cfo.cqo bcpnbchuepgcsogqcgbfepcrnbocpnb
hbafocgfvwsoacgqcjbcfhqugcsgtcXbp,cxbp,cScebjbjhbetcScebjbjhbecybex
rbvvtcPnbcrfpcfocuavxcvsggvbcgnsoatcScebfvvxc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgc.ebrcjb
gqcnbecgnbo--Scgnsowcsgcrfpchb fupbcpnbcrfpcfvrfxpcsvvtcSkcpnbcnf.chbbo
vfjbcqecnuo nhf w,cSchbvsbybcScpnquv.cnfybcvswb.cnbechbggbecpgsvv,”cnb
pjsvb.c.ebfjsvxtc“Xbp,csgcrfpcfcpqegcqkcpiesoac.bvsesujt”

“Oq,csgcrfpcoqgcqovxcpiesoac.bvsesuj,”cpfs.c.quosf,crsgncrfejckbbvsoat

Nbcksdb.cfcpgefsob.csogbogcvqqwcqocnspcpspgbe,chugc.s.coqgcnbfecqec.s.
oqgcuo.bepgfo.cnbecrqe.ptcGnbo,c qjivbgbvxcvqpgcsocgnquang,cnbcaqgcui,
rbogcuicgqcnspcjqgnbe,cwsppb.cnbe,crbogchf wcgqcnspcivf bcfo.cpfgc.qrot

“Xqucvqybcnbecbybocoqr?”cpfs.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,cgqu nb.t

“Nbe?cOqr?cQn,cxbpttttcXqucfpwcfhqugcnbe?cOqtttcgnfg’pcfvvcoqr,cfp
sgcrbeb,csocfoqgnbecrqev.tttcfo.cpqcvqoacfaqtcFo.cso.bb.cbybexgnsoa
nfiibosoacnbebcpbbjpcpqjbnqrckfecfrfxt”cNbcvqqwb.cfggbogsybvxcfgcgnbjt
“Xqu,coqrtttcScpbbjcgqchbcvqqwsoacfgcxquckeqjcfcgnqupfo.cjsvbpcfrfxttt
hug,caqq.obppcwoqrpcrnxcrbcfebcgfvwsoacqkcgnfg!cFo.crnfg’pcgnbcupbcqk
fpwsoacfhqugcsg?”cnbcf..b.crsgncfooqxfo b,cfo.chsgsoacnspcofsvp,ckbvv
sogqc.ebfjxcpsvbo bcfafsot

“Rnfgcfcrebg nb.cvq.asoacxqucnfyb,cEq.xf!cSg’pcvswbcfcgqjh,”cpfs.
Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,cpu..bovxchebfwsoacgnbcqiiebppsybcpsvbo btc“S
fjcpuebcsg’pclusgbcnfvkcgnequancxquecvq.asoacxqucnfybchb qjbcpq
jbvfo nqvxt”

“Jxcvq.asoa,”cnbcfoprbeb.,cvspgvbppvxtc“Xbp,cgnbcvq.asoacnf.cfcaebfg
.bfvcgqc.qcrsgncsgttttcScgnquangcgnfg,cgqqttttcSkcqovxcxqucwobr,cgnquan,
rnfgcfcpgefoabcgnsoacxqucpfs.cmupgcoqr,cjqgnbe,”cnbcpfs.,cvfuansoa
pgefoabvxt

Fcvsggvbcjqeb,cfo.cgnbsec qjifosqopnsi,cgnspcjqgnbecfo.cgnspcpspgbe,
rsgncnsjcfkgbecgnebbcxbfep’cfhpbo b,cgnspcsogsjfgbcgqobcqkc qoybepfgsqo,
sockf bcqkcgnbcuggbecsjiqppshsvsgxcqkcebfvvxcpibfwsoacfhqugcfoxgnsoa,
rquv.cnfybchbbochbxqo.cnspciqrbecqkcbo.uefo btcHugcgnbebcrfpcqobcueabog
jfggbecrns ncjupgchbcpbggvb.cqobcrfxcqecgnbcqgnbecgnfgc.fx--pqcnbcnf.
.b s.b.crnbocnbcrqwbtcOqrcnbcrfpcavf.cgqcebjbjhbecsg,cfpcfcjbfopcqk
bp fibt

“Vspgbo,c.quosf,”cnbchbafo,caefybvxcfo.c.esvx,c“qkc quepbcSchbacxque
ife.qockqecxbpgbe.fx,chugcSc qops.becsgcjxc.ugxcgqcgbvvcxqucfafsocgnfg
Sc.qcoqgcrsgn.efrckeqjcjxc nsbkciqsogtcSgcspcjbcqecVuznsotcSkcScfjcf
p quo.ebv,cxqucjupgcoqgchbtcQobcspcboquantcSkcxqucjfeexcVuznso,cSc bfpb
fgcqo bcgqcvqqwcqocxqucfpcfcpspgbet”

“Eq.xf,cEq.xf!cSgcspcgnbcpfjbcfpcxbpgbe.fxcfafso,”cIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyofc esb.,cjqueokuvvxtc“Fo.crnxc.qcxquc fvvcxquepbvkcf
p quo.ebv?cSc fo’gchbfecsgtcXqucpfs.cgnbcpfjbcxbpgbe.fxt”

“Heqgnbe,”c.quosfcfoprbeb.cksejvxcfo.crsgncgnbcpfjbc.exobpptc“Socfvv
gnspcgnbebcspcfcjspgfwbcqocxquecifegtcScgnquangcsgcqybecfgcosang,
fo.ckquo.cqugcgnbcjspgfwbtcSgcspcfvvchb fupbcxqucpbbjcgqckfo xcScfj
pf esks soacjxpbvkcgqcpqjbqobcfo.ckqecpqjbqobtcGnfgcspcoqgcgnbc fpbcfg
fvvtcScfjcpsjivxcjfeexsoackqecjxcqrocpfwb,chb fupbcgnsoapcfebcnfe.ckqe
jbtcGnquan,cqkc quepb,cScpnfvvchbcavf.cskcScpu  bb.csochbsoacupbkuvcgq
jxckfjsvxtcHugcgnfgcspcoqgcgnbc nsbkcjqgsybckqecjxc.b spsqotttt”

“Pnbcspcvxsoa,”cnbcgnquangcgqcnsjpbvk,chsgsoacnspcofsvpcyso.s gsybvxt
“Iequ.c ebfgueb!cPnbcrqo’gcf.jsgcpnbcrfogpcgqc.qcsgcqugcqkc nfesgx!cGqq
nfuangx!cQn,chfpbc nfef gbep!cGnbxcbybocvqybcfpcgnquancgnbxcnfgbttttcQn,
nqrcStttcnfgbcgnbjcfvv!”

“Sockf g,”c qogsoub.c.quosf,c“ScfjcjfeexsoacIxqgecIbgeqysg nchb fupbcqk
grqcbysvpcSc nqqpbcgnbcvbpptcScsogbo.cgqc.qcnqobpgvxcfvvcnbcbdib gpcqk
jb,cpqcScfjcoqgc.b bsysoacnsjttttcRnxc.s.cxqucpjsvbcmupgcoqr?”cPnb,cgqq,
kvupnb.,cfo.cgnbebcrfpcfcavbfjcqkcfoabecsocnbecbxbpt

“Fvv?”cnbcfpwb.,crsgncfcjfvsaofogcaesot

“Rsgnsoc begfsocvsjsgptcHqgncgnbcjfoobecfo.ckqejcqkcIxqgecIbgeqysg n’p
 quegpnsicpnqrb.cjbcfgcqo bcrnfgcnbcrfogb.tcNbcjfx,cqkc quepb,cgnsowcgqq
rbvvcqkcnsjpbvk,chugcScnqibcnbcbpgbbjpcjb,cgqqttttcRnxcfebcxqucvfuansoa
fafso?”

“Fo.crnxcfebcxquchvupnsoacfafso?cXqucfebcvxsoa,cpspgbetcXqucfeb
sogbogsqofvvxcvxsoa,cpsjivxckeqjckbjsosobcqhpgsof x,cpsjivxcgqcnqv.cxque
qrocfafsopgcjbttttcXquc fooqgcebpib gcVuznsotcScnfybcpbbocnsjcfo.cgfvwb.
rsgncnsjtcPqcxqucfebcpbvvsoacxquepbvkckqecjqobx,cfo.cpqcsocfoxc fpbcxqu
febcf gsoachfpbvx,cfo.cScfjcavf.cfgcvbfpgcgnfgcxquc fochvupnckqecsgt”

“SgcspcoqgcgeubtcScfjcoqgcvxsoa,”c esb.c.quosf,cvqpsoacnbec qjiqpuebt
“Scrquv.coqgcjfeexcnsjcskcScrbebcoqgc qoyso b.cgnfgcnbcbpgbbjpcjb
fo.cgnsowpcnsanvxcqkcjbtcScrquv.coqgcjfeexcnsjcskcScrbebcoqgcksejvx
 qoyso b.cgnfgcSc focebpib gcnsjtcKqeguofgbvx,cSc focnfybc qoyso soa
ieqqkcqkcsgcgnspcybexc.fxtttcfo.cpu ncfcjfeesfabcspcoqgcfcysvbobpp,cfp
xqucpfx!cFo.cbybocskcxqucrbebcesang,cskcScebfvvxcnf.c.bgbejsob.cqocf
ysvbcf gsqo,cspcsgcoqgcjbe svbppcqocxquecifegcgqcpibfwcgqcjbcvswbcgnfg?
Rnxc.qcxquc.bjfo.cqkcjbcfcnbeqspjcgnfgcibenfipcxqucnfybcoqgcbsgnbe?cSg
spc.bpiqgspj;csgcspcgxefooxtcSkcSceusocfoxqob,csgcspcqovxcjxpbvkttttcS
fjcoqgc qjjsggsoacfcjue.betcRnxc.qcxqucvqqwcfgcjbcvswbcgnfg?cRnxcfebcxqu
pqcifvb?cEq.xf,c.fevsoa,crnfg’pcgnbcjfggbe?”

“Aqq.cnbfybop!cXqucnfybcjf.bcnsjckfsog,”c esb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoft

“Oq,coq,coqopbopb!cSg’pcoqgnsoatcFcvsggvbcas..sobpp--oqgckfsogsoatcXqu
nfybckfsogsoacqocgnbchefsotcN’j,cxbp,crnfgcrfpcScpfxsoa?cQn,cxbptcSo
rnfgcrfxcrsvvcxqucabgc qoyso soacieqqkcgq-.fxcgnfgcxquc focebpib gcnsj,
fo.cgnfgcnbtttcbpgbbjpcxqu,cfpcxqucpfs.tcScgnsowcxqucpfs.cgq-.fx?”

“Jqgnbe,cpnqrcEq.xfcIxqgecIbgeqysg n’pcvbggbe,”cpfs.c.quosft

Rsgncgebjhvsoacnfo.p,cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcafybcnsjcgnbcvbggbetcNb
gqqwcsgcrsgncaebfgcsogbebpg,chug,chbkqebcqibosoacsg,cnbcpu..bovxcvqqwb.
rsgncfcpqegcqkcrqo.becfgc.quosft

“Sgcspcpgefoab,”cnbcpfs.,cpvqrvx,cfpcgnquancpgeu wchxcfcobrcs.bftc“Rnfg
fjcScjfwsoacpu ncfckuppckqe?cRnfgcspcsgcfvvcfhqug?cJfeexcrnqjcxqucvswb!”

Nbcpfs.cgnspcfpcgnquancgqcnsjpbvk,chugcpfs.csgcfvqu.,cfo.cvqqwb.ckqe
pqjbcgsjbcfgcnspcpspgbe,cfpcgnquanciuzzvb.tcNbcqibob.cgnbcvbggbecfg
vfpg,cpgsvvcrsgncgnbcpfjbcvqqwcqkcpgefoabcrqo.becqocnspckf btcGnbo,
pvqrvxcfo.cfggbogsybvx,cnbchbafocebf.soa,cfo.cebf.csgcgnequancgrs bt
Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcpnqrb.cjfewb.cfodsbgx,cfo.cfvvcso.bb.cbdib gb.
pqjbgnsoacifegs uvfet

“Rnfgcpueiespbpcjb,”cnbchbafo,cfkgbecfcpnqegcifupb,cnfo.soacgnbcvbggbe
gqcnspcjqgnbe,chugcoqgcf..ebppsoacfoxqobcsocifegs uvfe,c“spcgnfgcnbcspcf
hupsobppcjfo,cfcvfrxbe,cfo.cnspc qoybepfgsqocspciebgbogsqupcso.bb.,cfo.
xbgcnbcresgbpcpu ncfocuob.u fgb.cvbggbet”

Gnbxcfvvcpgfegb.tcGnbxcnf.cbdib gb.cpqjbgnsoaclusgbc.skkbebogt

“Hugcgnbxcfvvcresgbcvswbcgnfg,cxqucwoqr,”cEfzujsnsocqhpbeyb.,cfheuigvxt

“Nfybcxqucebf.csg?”

“Xbpt”

“Rbcpnqrb.cnsj,cEq.xftcRbtttc qopuvgb.cnsjcmupgcoqr,”cIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyofchbafo,cbjhfeefppb.t

“Gnfg’pcmupgcgnbcmfeaqocqkcgnbc quegp,”cEfzujsnsociugcsotc“Vbafv
.q ujbogpcfebcresggbocvswbcgnfgcgqcgnspc.fxt”

“Vbafv?cXbp,csg’pcmupgcvbafv--hupsobppcvfoaufab--oqgcpqcybexcuob.u fgb.,
fo.coqgclusgbcb.u fgb.--hupsobppcvfoaufab!”

“IxqgecIbgeqysg ncjfwbpcoqcpb ebgcqkcgnbckf gcgnfgcnbcnf.cfc nbfi
b.u fgsqo,cnbcspciequ.cso.bb.cqkcnfysoacjf.bcnspcqrocrfx,”cFy.qgxf
Eqjfoqyofcqhpbeyb.,cpqjbrnfgcqkkbo.b.chxcnbecheqgnbe’pcgqobt

“Rbvv,cskcnb’pciequ.cqkcsg,cnbcnfpcebfpqo,cSc.qo’gc.boxcsgtcXqucpbbjcgq
hbcqkkbo.b.,cpspgbe,cfgcjxcjfwsoacqovxcpu ncfckesyqvqupc esgs spjcqocgnb
vbggbe,cfo.cgqcgnsowcgnfgcScpibfwcqkcpu ncgeskvsoacjfggbepcqociueiqpbcgq
fooqxcxqutcSgcspclusgbcgnbc qogefex,cfocqhpbeyfgsqocfieqiqpcqkcgnbcpgxvb
q  ueeb.cgqcjbcgnfgcspchxcoqcjbfopcseebvbyfogcfpcgnsoapcpgfo.tcGnbeb
spcqobcbdiebppsqo,c‘hvfjbcxquepbvybp’ciugcsocybexcpsaosks fogvxcfo.
ivfsovx,cfo.cgnbebcspchbps.bpcfcgnebfgcgnfgcnbcrsvvcaqcfrfxcfgcqo bcskcS
fjciebpbogtcGnfgcgnebfgcgqcaqcfrfxcspcblusyfvbogcgqcfcgnebfgcgqcfhfo.qo
xquchqgncskcxqucfebc.spqhb.sbog,cfo.cgqcfhfo.qocxqucoqrcfkgbecpujjqosoa
xqucgqcIbgbephueatcRbvv,crnfgc.qcxqucgnsow?c focqobcebpbogcpu ncfo
bdiebppsqockeqjcVuznso,cfpcrbcpnquv.cskcnbc(nbciqsogb.cgqcEfzujsnso)cnf.
resggbocsg,cqecZqppsjqy,cqecqobcqkcup?”

“O-oq,”cfoprbeb.c.quosf,crsgncjqebcfosjfgsqotc“Scpfrc vbfevxcgnfgcsg
rfpcgqqcofïybvxcbdiebppb.,cfo.cgnfgcibenfipcnbcpsjivxcnfpcoqcpwsvv
socresgsoatttcgnfgcspcfcgeubc esgs spj,cheqgnbetcSc.s.coqgcbdib g,
so.bb.ttt”

“Sgcspcbdiebppb.csocvbafvcpgxvb,cfo.cpquo.pc qfepbecgnfocibenfipcnb
sogbo.b.tcHugcScjupgc.spsvvupsqocxqucfcvsggvbtcGnbebcspcqobcbdiebppsqo
socgnbcvbggbe,cqobcpvfo.becfhqugcjb,cfo.cefgnbecfc qogbjigshvbcqobtcS
afybcgnbcjqobxcvfpgcosangcgqcgnbcrs.qr,cfcrqjfocsoc qopujigsqo,c eupnb.
rsgncgequhvb,cfo.coqgc‘qocgnbciebgbdgcqkcgnbckuobefv,’chugcpsjivxcgqcifx
kqecgnbckuobefv,cfo.coqgcgqcgnbc.fuangbe--fcxquoacrqjfo,cfpcnbcresgbp,
qkcoqgqesqupchbnfysquec(rnqjcScpfrcvfpgcosangckqecgnbcksepgcgsjbcsocjx
vskb)--hugcgqcgnbcrs.qrtcSocfvvcgnspcScpbbcfcgqqcnfpgxc.bpsebcgqcpvfo.be
jbcfo.cgqcefspbc.sppbopsqochbgrbbocuptcSgcspcbdiebppb.cfafsocsocvbafv
mfeaqo,cgnfgcspcgqcpfx,crsgncfcgqqcqhysqupc.spivfxcqkcgnbcfsj,cfo.
rsgncfcybexcofïybcbfabeobpptcNbcspcfcjfocqkcsogbvvsabo b,chugcgqcf g
pbopshvx,csogbvvsabo bcspcoqgcboquantcSgcfvvcpnqrpcgnbcjfocfo.tttcS
.qo’gcgnsowcnbcnfpcfcaebfgcbpgbbjckqecxqutcScgbvvcxqucgnspcpsjivxcgq
rfeocxqu,chb fupbcScpso bebvxcrspnckqecxquecaqq.ttt”

.quosfc.s.coqgcebivxtcNbecebpqvugsqocnf.chbbocgfwbotcPnbcrfpcqovx
frfsgsoacgnbcbybosoat

“Gnbocrnfgcspcxquec.b spsqo,cEq.xf?”cfpwb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,crnq
rfpcjqebcuobfpxcgnfocbybecfgcgnbcpu..bo,cobrchupsobppvswbcgqobcqkcnsp
gfvwt

“Rnfgc.b spsqo?”

“XqucpbbcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncresgbpcgnfgcxqucfebcoqgcgqchbcrsgncupcgnsp
bybosoa,cfo.cgnfgcnbcrsvvcaqcfrfxcskcxquc qjbtcPqcrsvvcxqutttc qjb?”

“Gnfg,cqkc quepb,cspcoqgckqecjbcgqc.b s.b,chugckqecxqucksepg,cskcxqucfeb
oqgcqkkbo.b.chxcpu ncfceblubpg;cfo.cpb qo.vx,chxc.quosf,cskcpnb,cgqq,csp
oqgcqkkbo.b.tcScrsvvc.qcrnfgcxqucgnsowchbpg,”cnbcf..b.,c.esvxt

“.quosfcnfpcfvebf.xc.b s.b.,cfo.cSckuvvxcfaebbcrsgncnbe,”cIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyofcnfpgbob.cgqc.b vfebt

“Sc.b s.b.cgqcfpwcxqu,cEq.xf,cgqcueabcxqucoqgcgqckfsvcgqchbcrsgncupcfg
gnspcsogbeysbr,”cpfs.c.quosftc“Rsvvcxquc qjb?”

“Xbpt”

“Scrsvvcfpwcxqu,cgqq,cgqchbcrsgncupcfgcbsangcq’ vq w,”cpnbcpfs.,
f..ebppsoacEfzujsnsotc“Jqgnbe,cScfjcsoysgsoacnsj,cgqqt”

“Lusgbcesang,c.quosftcRbvv,cpso bcxqucnfybc.b s.b.,”cf..b.cIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyof,c“pqchbcsgtcScpnfvvckbbvcbfpsbecjxpbvktcSc.qcoqgcvswb
 qo bfvjbogcfo.c.b bigsqotcHbggbecvbgcupcnfybcgnbcrnqvbcgeugnttttcIxqge
Ibgeqysg ncjfxchbcfoaexcqecoqg,coqr!”



 NFIGBEcSY

Fgcgnfgcjqjbogcgnbc.qqecrfpcpqkgvxcqibob.,cfo.cfcxquoacasevcrfvwb.csogq
gnbceqqj,cvqqwsoacgsjs.vxcfhqugcnbetcBybexqobcgueob.cgqrfe.pcnbecrsgn
pueiespbcfo.c uesqpsgxtcFgcksepgcpsang,cEfpwqvoswqyc.s.coqgceb qaospb
nbetcSgcrfpcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcJfejbvf.qytcNbcnf.cpbbocnbecxbpgbe.fxckqe
gnbcksepgcgsjb,chugcfgcpu ncfcjqjbog,csocpu ncpueequo.soapcfo.csocpu n
fc.ebpp,cgnfgcnspcjbjqexcebgfsob.cfcybexc.skkbebogcsjfabcqkcnbetcOqrcpnb
rfpcfcjq.bpgvxcfo.ciqqevx-.ebppb.cxquoacasev,cybexcxquoa,cso.bb.,
fvjqpgcvswbcfc nsv.,crsgncfcjq.bpgcfo.cebksob.cjfoobe,crsgncfc fo.s.chug
pqjbrnfgckesangbob.-vqqwsoackf btcPnbcrfpcrbfesoacfcybexcivfsocso.qqe
.ebpp,cfo.cnf.cqocfcpnfhhxcqv.-kfpnsqob.cnfg,chugcpnbcpgsvvc feesb.cf
ifefpqvtcUobdib gb.vxckso.soacgnbceqqjckuvvcqkcibqivb,cpnbcrfpcoqgcpq
ju ncbjhfeefppb.cfpc qjivbgbvxcqybernbvjb.crsgncpnxobpp,cvswbcf
vsggvbc nsv.tcPnbcrfpcbybocfhqugcgqcebgebfgtc“Qntttcsg’pcxqu!”cpfs.
Efpwqvoswqy,cbdgebjbvxcfpgqospnb.,cfo.cnb,cgqq,crfpc qokupb.tcNbcfgcqo b
eb qvvb gb.cgnfgcnspcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbecwobrcgnequancVuznso’pcvbggbe
qkc“pqjbcxquoacrqjfocqkcoqgqesqupchbnfysquet”cNbcnf.cqovxcmupgchbbo
ieqgbpgsoacfafsopgcVuznso’pc fvujoxcfo.c.b vfesoacgnfgcnbcnf.cpbbocgnb
asevcvfpgcosangckqecgnbcksepgcgsjb,cfo.cpu..bovxcpnbcnf.crfvwb.csotcNb
ebjbjhbeb.,cgqq,cgnfgcnbcnf.coqgcieqgbpgb.cfafsopgcgnbcbdiebppsqoc“qk
oqgqesqupchbnfysquet”cFvvcgnspcifppb.cyfaubvxcfo.ckvbbgsoavxcgnequan
nspchefso,chugcvqqwsoacfgcnbecjqebcsogbogvx,cnbcpfrcgnfgcgnbcnujsvsfgb.
 ebfguebcrfpcpqcnujsvsfgb.cgnfgcnbckbvgcpu..bovxcpqeexckqecnbetcRnbocpnb
jf.bcfcjqybjbogcgqcebgebfgcsocgbeeqe,csgcpbogcfcifoacgqcnspcnbfegt

“Sc.s.coqgcbdib gcxqu,”cnbcpfs.,cnueesb.vx,crsgncfcvqqwcgnfgcjf.bcnbe
pgqitc“Ivbfpbcpsgc.qrotcXquc qjb,coqc.quhg,ckeqjcWfgbesofcSyfoqyoft
Fvvqrcjb--oqgcgnbebtcPsgcnbebtttt”

FgcPqosf’pcbogefo b,cEfzujsnso,crnqcnf.chbbocpsggsoacqocqobcqk
Efpwqvoswqy’pcgnebbc nfsep,c vqpbcgqcgnbc.qqe,caqgcuicgqcfvvqrcnbecgq
bogbetcEfpwqvoswqycnf.cfgcksepgcpnqrocnbecgnbcivf bcqocgnbcpqkfcrnbeb
Zqppsjqycnf.chbbocpsggsoa,chugckbbvsoacgnfgcgnbcpqkfcrns ncpbeyb.cnsj
fpcfchb.,crfpcgqqc_kfjsvsfe_cfcivf b,cnbcnueesb.vxcjqgsqob.cnbecgq
Efzujsnso’pc nfset

“Xqucpsgcnbeb,”cnbcpfs.cgqcEfzujsnso,ciuggsoacnsjcqocgnbcpqkft

Pqosfcpfgc.qro,cfvjqpgcpnfwsoacrsgncgbeeqe,cfo.cvqqwb.cgsjs.vxcfgcgnb
grqcvf.sbptcSgcrfpcbys.bogvxcfvjqpgcso qo bsyfhvbcgqcnbepbvkcgnfgcpnb
 quv.cpsgc.qrochbps.bcgnbjtcFgcgnbcgnquangcqkcsg,cpnbcrfpcpqckesangbob.
gnfgcpnbcnueesb.vxcaqgcuicfafso,cfo.csocuggbec qokupsqocf..ebppb.
Efpwqvoswqyt

“StttcStttcnfybc qjbckqecqobcjsougbtcKqeasybcjbckqec.spguehsoacxqu,”cpnb
hbafockfvgbesoavxtc“Sc qjbckeqjcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cfo.cpnbcnf.coqcqobcgq
pbo.tcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcgqv.cjbcgqchbacxqutttcgqchbcfgcgnbcpbeys btttcso
gnbcjqeosoatttcfgcJsgeqkfosbypwxtttcfo.cgnbotttcgqcuptttcgqcnbettt
gqc.qcnbecgnbcnqoquetttcpnbcgqv.cjbcgqchbacxquttt”cPqosfcpgfjjbeb.cfo.
 bfpb.cpibfwsoat

“Scrsvvcgex,c begfsovx,cjqpgc begfsovx,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqytcNb,
gqq,cpgqq.cui,cfo.cnb,cgqq,ckfvgbeb.cfo.c quv.coqgcksospncnspcpbogbo bt
“Ivbfpbcpsgc.qro,”cnbcpfs.,cpu..bovxtc“ScrfogcgqcgfvwcgqcxqutcXqucfeb
ibenfipcsocfcnueex,chugcivbfpb,chbcpqcwso.,cpifebcjbcgrqcjsougbp,”cfo.
nbc.ebrcuicfc nfseckqecnbet

Pqosfcpfgc.qrocfafso,cfo.cfafsocgsjs.vxcpnbcgqqwcfcnueesb.,ckesangbob.
vqqwcfgcgnbcgrqcvf.sbp,cfo.c.eqiib.cnbecbxbptcEfpwqvoswqy’pcifvbckf b
kvupnb.,cfcpnu..becifppb.cqybecnsj,cnspcbxbpcavqrb.t

“Jqgnbe,”cnbcpfs.,cksejvxcfo.csopspgbogvx,c“gnspcspcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof
Jfejbvf.qy,cgnbc.fuangbecqkcgnfgcuokqeguofgbcJetcJfejbvf.qy,crnqcrfpceuo
qybecxbpgbe.fxchbkqebcjxcbxbp,cfo.cqkcrnqjcScrfpcmupgcgbvvsoacxqut”

Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcavfo b.cfgcPqosf,cfo.cpvsangvxcp ebrb.cui
nbecbxbptcSocpisgbcqkcnbecbjhfeefppjbogchbkqebcEq.xf’pcueabogcfo.
 nfvvboasoacvqqw,cpnbc quv.coqgc.boxcnbepbvkcgnfgcpfgspkf gsqotc.quosf
afzb.caefybvxcfo.csogbogvxcsogqcgnbciqqecasev’pckf b,cfo.cp eugsospb.
nbecrsgncibeivbdsgxtcPqosf,cnbfesoacnbepbvkcsogeq.u b.,cgesb.cgqcefspb
nbecbxbpcfafso,chugcrfpcjqebcbjhfeefppb.cgnfocbybet

“Scrfogb.cgqcfpwcxqu,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,cnfpgsvx,c“nqrcgnsoapcrbeb
feefoab.cxbpgbe.fxtcXqucrbebcoqgcrqeesb.chxcgnbciqvs b,ckqecsopgfo b?”

“Oq,cgnfgcrfpcfvvcesangtttcsgcrfpcgqqcbys.bog,cgnbc fupbcqkc.bfgnttt
gnbxc.s.coqgcrqeexcuptttcqovxcgnbcvq.abepcfebcfoaext”

“Rnx?”

“Fgcgnbchq.x’pcebjfsosoacpqcvqoatcXqucpbbcsgcspcnqgcoqrtcPqcgnfg,
gq-.fx,cgnbxcrsvvc feexcsgcgqcgnbc bjbgbex,csogqcgnbc nfibv,cuogsv
gq-jqeeqrtcFgcksepgcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrfpcuorsvvsoa,chugcoqrcpnbcpbbp
nbepbvkcgnfgcsg’pcob bppfexttt”

“Gq-.fx,cgnbo?”

“Pnbchbapcxqucgqc.qcupcgnbcnqoquecgqchbcsocgnbc nue ncgq-jqeeqrckqecgnb
pbeys b,cfo.cgnbocgqchbciebpbogcfgcgnbckuobefvcvuo nt”

“Pnbcspcasysoacfckuobefvcvuo n?”

“XbptttcmupgcfcvsggvbttttcPnbcgqv.cjbcgqcgnfowcxqucybexcju nckqecnbvisoa
upcxbpgbe.fxtcHugckqecxqu,crbcpnquv.cnfybcnf.coqgnsoackqecgnbckuobefvt”

Fvvcfgcqo bcnbecvsipcfo.c nsochbafocgebjhvsoa,chug,crsgncfocbkkqeg,cpnb
 qogeqvvb.cnbepbvk,cvqqwsoac.qrocfafsot

.uesoacgnbc qoybepfgsqo,cEfpwqvoswqycrfg nb.cnbec febkuvvxtcPnbcnf.cf
gnso,cybexcgnso,cifvbcvsggvbckf b,cefgnbecseebauvfecfo.cfoauvfe,crsgncf
pnfeicvsggvbcoqpbcfo.c nsotcPnbc quv.coqgcnfybchbboc fvvb.ciebggx,chug
nbechvubcbxbpcrbebcpqc vbfe,cfo.crnbocgnbxcvsangb.cui,cgnbebcrfpcpu n
fcwso.vsobppcfo.cpsjivs sgxcsocnbecbdiebppsqocgnfgcqobc quv.coqgcnbvi
hbsoacfggef gb.tcNbeckf b,cfo.cnbecrnqvbcksauebcso.bb.,cnf.cfoqgnbe
ib uvsfec nfef gbespgs tcSocpisgbcqkcnbecbsangbbocxbfep,cpnbcvqqwb.
fvjqpgcfcvsggvbcasev--fvjqpgcfc nsv.tcFo.csocpqjbcqkcnbecabpguebp,cgnsp
 nsv.spnobppcpbbjb.cfvjqpgcfhpue.t

“HugcnfpcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofchbbocfhvbcgqcjfofabcrsgncpu ncpjfvvcjbfop?
.qbpcpnbcbybocjbfocgqcnfybcfckuobefvcvuo n?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.,
ibepspgbogvxcwbbisoacuicgnbc qoybepfgsqot

“Gnbc qkksocrsvvchbcivfso,cqkc quepbtttcfo.cbybexgnsoacrsvvchbcivfso,cpq
sgcrqo’gc qpgcju ntcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfo.cScnfybceb wqob.csgcfvvcqug,cpq
gnfgcgnbebcrsvvchbcboquancvbkgtttcfo.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrfpcybexcfodsqup
sgcpnquv.chbcpqtcXqucwoqrcqobc fo’gtttcsg’pcfc qjkqegcgqcnbetttcpnbcsp
vswbcgnfg,cxqucwoqrtttt”

“Scuo.bepgfo.,cScuo.bepgfo.tttcqkc quepbtttcrnxc.qcxqucvqqwcfgcjxceqqj
vswbcgnfg?cJxcjqgnbecnfpcmupgcpfs.csgcspcvswbcfcgqjht”

“Xqucafybcupcbybexgnsoacxbpgbe.fx,”cPqosfcpfs.cpu..bovx,csocebivx,csocf
vqu.cefis.crnspibe;cfo.cfafsocpnbcvqqwb.c.qrocsoc qokupsqotcNbecvsip
fo.c nsocrbebcgebjhvsoacqo bcjqebtcPnbcnf.chbbocpgeu wcfgcqo b
hxcEfpwqvoswqy’pciqqecpueequo.soap,cfo.coqrcgnbpbcrqe.pcheqwbcqug
piqogfobqupvxtcFcpsvbo bckqvvqrb.tcGnbebcrfpcfcvsangcsoc.quosf’pcbxbp,
fo.cbybocIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcvqqwb.cwso.vxcfgcPqosft

“Eq.xf,”cpnbcpfs.,cabggsoacui,c“rbcpnfvvcnfybc.soobecgqabgnbe,cqk
 quepbtc qjb,c.quosfttttcFo.cxqu,cEq.xf,cnf.chbggbecaqckqecfcvsggvb
rfvw,cfo.cgnbocebpgcfo.cvsbc.qrochbkqebcxquc qjbcgqcpbbcupttttcScfj
fkefs.crbcnfybcbdnfupgb.cxqutttt”

“Xbp,cxbp,cS’vvc qjb,”cnbcfoprbeb.,cabggsoacuickuppsvxtc“HugcScnfyb
pqjbgnsoacgqcpbbcgqt”

“Hugcpuebvxcxqucrsvvcnfybc.soobecgqabgnbe?”c esb.cEfzujsnso,cvqqwsoacso
pueiespbcfgcEfpwqvoswqytc“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfo?”

“Xbp,cxbp,cScfjc qjsoatttcqkc quepb,cqkc quepb!cFo.cxqucpgfxcfcjsougbt
Xquc.qcoqgcrfogcnsjcmupgcoqr,c.qcxqu,cjqgnbe?cQecibenfipcScfjcgfwsoacnsj
keqjcxqu?”

“Qn,coq,coqtcFo.crsvvcxqu,c.jsgescIeqwqksg n,c.qcupcgnbckfyquecqkc.sosoa
rsgncup?”

“Ivbfpbc.q,”cf..b.c.quosft

Efzujsnsochqrb.,ciqpsgsybvxcef.sfogtcKqecqobcjqjbog,cgnbxcrbebcfvv
pgefoabvxcbjhfeefppb.t

“Aqq.-hxb,cEq.xf,cgnfgcspcgsvvcrbcjbbgtcSc.qcoqgcvswbcpfxsoacaqq.-hxbt
Aqq.-hxb,cOfpgfpxftcFn,cScnfybcpfs.caqq.-hxbcfafsot”

Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcjbfogcgqcaebbgcPqosf,cgqq;chugcsgcpqjbnqrckfsvb.
gqc qjbcqkk,cfo.cpnbcrbogcsocfckvuggbecqugcqkcgnbceqqjt

HugcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcpbbjb.cgqcfrfsgcnbecgueo,cfo.ckqvvqrsoacnbecjqgnbe
qug,cafybcPqosfcfocfggbogsyb,c quegbqupchqrtcPqosf,csoc qokupsqo,cafyb
fcnueesb.,ckesangbob.c uegpxtcGnbebcrfpcfcvqqwcqkciqsaofogc.sp qjkqeg
socnbeckf b,cfpcgnquancFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof’pc quegbpxcfo.cfggbogsqocrbeb
qiiebppsybcfo.cifsokuvcgqcnbet

“.quosf,caqq.-hxb,”c fvvb.cEfpwqvoswqy,csocgnbcifppfabtc“Asybcjbcxque
nfo.t”

“Rnx,cSc.s.casybcsgcgqcxqutcNfybcxquckqeaqggbo?”cpfs.c.quosf,cgueosoa
rfejvxcfo.cfrwrfe.vxcgqcnsjt

“Obybecjso.,casybcsgcgqcjbcfafsot”cFo.cnbcplubbzb.cnbecksoabepcrfejvxt

.quosfcpjsvb.,ckvupnb.,ciuvvb.cnbecnfo.cfrfx,cfo.crbogcqkkclusgbcnfiixt

“ qjb,cgnfg’pc fisgfv,”cnbcpfs.cgqcPqosf,caqsoachf wcfo.cvqqwsoa
hesangvxcfgcnbetc“Aq.casybcibf bcgqcgnbc.bf.,cgnbcvsysoacnfybcpgsvvcgq
vsybtcGnfgcspcesang,cspo’gcsg?”

Pqosfcvqqwb.cpueiespb.cfgcgnbcpu..bochesangobppcqkcnspckf btcNbcvqqwb.
fgcnbeckqecpqjbcjqjbogpcsocpsvbo btcGnbcrnqvbcnspgqexcqkcgnbc.bf.ckfgnbe
kvqfgb.chbkqebcnspcjbjqexcsocgnqpbcjqjbogptttt

*****

“Nbfybop,c.quosf,”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofchbafo,cfpcpqqocfpcgnbxcrbebcso
gnbcpgebbg,c“Scebfvvxckbbvcebvsbyb.cjxpbvkcfgc qjsoacfrfx--jqebcfgcbfpbt
Nqrcvsggvbc.s.cScgnsowcxbpgbe.fxcsocgnbcgefsocgnfgcSc quv.cbybechbcavf.
qkcgnfgt”

“Scgbvvcxqucfafso,cjqgnbe,cnbcspcpgsvvcybexcsvvtc.qo’gcxqucpbbcsg?
IbenfipcrqeexsoacfhqugcupcuipbgcnsjtcRbcjupgchbcifgsbog,cfo.cju n,cju n
 fochbckqeasybot”

“Rbvv,cxqucrbebcoqgcybexcifgsbog!”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofc fuangcnbecui,
nqgvxcfo.cmbfvqupvxtc“.qcxqucwoqr,c.quosf,cScrfpcvqqwsoacfgcxqucgrqtcXqu
febcgnbcybexciqegefsgcqkcnsj,cfo.coqgcpqcju ncsockf bcfpcsocpquvtcXqu
febchqgncjbvfo nqvx,chqgncjqeqpbcfo.cnqg-gbjibeb.,chqgncnfuangxcfo.chqgn
abobequpttttcPuebvxcnbc fo’gchbcfocbaqspg,c.quosftcBn?cRnbocScgnsowcqk
rnfgcspcsocpgqebckqecupcgnspcbybosoa,cjxcnbfegcpsowp!”

“.qo’gchbcuobfpx,cjqgnbetcRnfgcjupgchb,crsvvchbt”

“.quosf,cqovxcgnsowcrnfgcfciqpsgsqocrbcfebcso!cRnfgcskcIxqgecIbgeqysg n
hebfwpcsgcqkk?”ciqqecIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofchvuegb.cqug,cso fugsqupvxt

“Nbcrqo’gchbcrqegncju ncskcnbc.qbp,”cfoprbeb.c.quosf,cpnfeivxcfo.
 qogbjiguqupvxt

“Rbc.s.crbvvcgqc qjbcfrfx,”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcnueesb.vxcheqwbcsot
“NbcrfpcsocfcnueexcfhqugcpqjbchupsobppcqecqgnbetcSkcnbcabgpcqugcfo.cnfp
fchebfgncqkcfsetttcsgcspckbfekuvvxc vqpbcsocnspceqqjttttcHugcrnbebcsp
qobcgqcabgcfchebfgncqkcfsecnbeb?cGnbcybexcpgebbgpcnbebckbbvcvswbcpnug-ui
eqqjptcAqq.cnbfybop!crnfgcfcgqro!tttcpgfxtttcgnspcps.btttcgnbxcrsvv
 eupncxqu-- feexsoacpqjbgnsoatcRnx,csgcspcfcisfoqcgnbxcnfybcaqg,cS
.b vfebtttcnqrcgnbxciupn!tttcScfjcybexcju ncfkefs.cqkcgnfgcxquoacrqjfo,
gqqt”

“Rnfgcxquoacrqjfo,cjqgnbe?

“Rnx,cgnfgcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,crnqcrfpcgnbebcmupgcoqrt”

“Rnx?”

“Scnfybcfciebpbogsjbog,c.quosftcRbvv,cxqucjfxchbvsbybcsgcqecoqg,chug
fpcpqqocfpcpnbc fjbcso,cgnfgcybexcjsougb,cSckbvgcgnfgcpnbcrfpcgnbc nsbk
 fupbcqkcgnbcgequhvbtttt”

“Oqgnsoacqkcgnbcpqeg!”c esb.c.quosf,csocybdfgsqotc“Rnfgcoqopbopb,crsgn
xqueciebpbogsjbogp,cjqgnbe!cNbcqovxcjf.bcnbecf lufsogfo bcgnbcbybosoa
hbkqeb,cfo.cnbc.s.coqgcwoqrcnbecrnbocpnbc fjbcsot”

“Rbvv,cxqucrsvvcpbbttttcPnbcrqeesbpcjb;chugcxqucrsvvcpbb,cxqucrsvv
pbb!cScrfpcpqckesangbob.tcPnbcrfpcafzsoacfgcjbcrsgncgnqpbcbxbptcSc quv.
p fe bvxcpsgcpgsvvcsocjxc nfsecrnbocnbchbafocsogeq.u soacnbe,c.qcxqu
ebjbjhbe?cSgcpbbjpcpqcpgefoab,chugcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncresgbpcvswbcgnfg
fhqugcnbe,cfo.cnbcsogeq.u bpcnbecgqcup--gqcxqu!cPqcnbcjupgcgnsowcfcaebfg
.bfvcqkcnbet”

“IbqivbcrsvvcresgbcfoxgnsoatcRbcrbebcgfvwb.cfhqugcfo.cresggbocfhqug,
gqqtcNfybcxquckqeaqggbo?cScfjcpuebcgnfgcpnbcspcfcaqq.casev,cfo.cgnfgcsg
spcfvvcoqopbopbt”

“Aq.caefogcsgcjfxchb!”

“Fo.cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncspcfc qogbjigshvbcpvfo.bebe,”c.quosfcpofiib.cqug,
pu..bovxt

Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrfpc eupnb.;cgnbc qoybepfgsqocrfpcoqgcebpujb.t

*****

“ScrsvvcgbvvcxqucrnfgcScrfogcrsgncxqu,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,c.efrsoa
Efzujsnsocgqcgnbcrso.qrt

“GnbocScrsvvcgbvvcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcgnfgcxqucfebc qjsoa,”cPqosfcpfs.
nueesb.vx,ciebifesoacgqc.bifegt

“Qobcjsougb,cPqkxfcPbjxqoqyoftcRbcnfybcoqcpb ebgptcXqucfebcoqgcsocque
rfxtcScrfogcgqcnfybcfoqgnbecrqe.cqecgrqcrsgncxqutcVspgbo!”cnbcgueob.
pu..bovxcgqcEfzujsnsocfafsotc“Xqucwoqrcgnfgtttcrnfg’pcnspcofjbttt
IqeksexcIbgeqysg n?”

“Scpnquv.cgnsowcpq!cNbcspcfcebvfgsqotcRnx?”cf..b.cgnbcvfggbe,crsgn
sogbebpgt

“Spcoqgcnbcjfofasoacgnfgc fpbtttcxqucwoqr,cfhqugcgnfgcjue.be?tttcXqu
rbebcpibfwsoacfhqugcsgcxbpgbe.fxt”

“Xbptttcrbvv?”cEfzujsnso’pcbxbpcqibob.crs.bt

“Nbcrfpcsolusesoackqecibqivbcrnqcnf.cifrob.cgnsoap,cfo.cScnfybcpqjb
ivb.abpcgnbeb,cgqq--geskvbp--fcesoacjxcpspgbecafybcjbcfpcfcwbbipfwbcrnbo
Scvbkgcnqjb,cfo.cjxckfgnbe’pcpsvybecrfg n--gnbxcfebcqovxcrqegncksybcqe
psdcequhvbpcfvgqabgnbetttchugcScyfvubcgnbjtcPqcrnfgcfjcScgqc.qcoqr?cS
.qcoqgcrfogcgqcvqpbcgnbcgnsoap,cbpib sfvvxcgnbcrfg ntcScrfpclufwsoacmupg
oqr,ckqeckbfecjqgnbecrquv.cfpwcgqcvqqwcfgcsg,crnbocrbcpiqwbcqkc.quosf’p
rfg ntcSgcspcgnbcqovxcgnsoacqkckfgnbe’pcvbkgcuptcPnbcrquv.chbcsvvcsk
sgcrbebcvqpgtcXqucwoqrcrnfgcrqjbocfebtcPqcgbvvcjbcrnfgcgqc.qtcScwoqrcS
quangcgqcnfybcasybocoqgs bcfgcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqo,chugcrquv.csgcoqgchb
hbggbecgqcaqcpgefsangcgqcIqeksex?cBn?cRnfgc.qcxqucgnsow?cGnbcjfggbe
jsangchbcpbggvb.cjqebclus wvxtcXqucpbb,cjqgnbecjfxcfpwckqecsgchbkqeb
.soobet”

“ begfsovxcoqgcgqcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqotc begfsovxcgqcIqeksex,”cEfzujsnso
pnqugb.csocbdgefqe.sofexcbd sgbjbogtc“Rbvv,cnqrcavf.cScfjtcVbgcupcaqcfg
qo btcSgcspcfc quivbcqkcpgbiptcRbcpnfvvchbcpuebcgqckso.cnsjt”

“Ybexcrbvv,cvbgcupcaqt”

“Fo.cnbcrsvvchbcybex,cybexcavf.cgqcjfwbcxquecf lufsogfo btcScnfyb
qkgbocgfvwb.cgqcnsjcqkcxqucfgc.skkbebogcgsjbptcScrfpcpibfwsoacqkcxqu
xbpgbe.fxtcVbgcupcaqtcPqcxqucwobrcgnbcqv.crqjfo?cPqcgnfg’pcsg!cSgcspcfvv
gueosoacqugcpivbo.s.vxttttcQn,cxbp,cPqkxfcSyfoqyofttt”

“PqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,”c qeeb gb.cEfpwqvoswqytc“PqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cgnspcspcjx
kesbo.cEfzujsnso,cfo.cnbcspcfcaqq.cjfot”

“Skcxqucnfybcgqcaqcoqr,”cPqosfcrfpchbasoosoa,coqgcvqqwsoacfgcEfzujsnso
fgcfvv,cfo.cpgsvvcjqebcbjhfeefppb.t

“Vbgcupcaq,”c.b s.b.cEfpwqvoswqytc“Scrsvvc qjbcgqcxqucgq-.fx,cPqkxf
PbjxqoqyoftcQovxcgbvvcjbcrnbebcxqucvsybt”

Nbcrfpcoqgcbdf gvxcsvvcfgcbfpb,chugcpbbjb.cnueesb.,cfo.cfyqs.b.cnbe
bxbptcPqosfcafybcnbecf..ebpp,cfo.ckvupnb.cfpcpnbc.s.cpqtcGnbxcfvvcrbog
qugcgqabgnbet

“.qo’gcxqucvq wcui?”cfpwb.cEfzujsnso,ckqvvqrsoacnsjcqocgqcgnbcpgfsept

“Obybe,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqytc“Scnfybchbbocjbfosoacgqchuxcfcvq wckqe
gnbpbcgrqcxbfeptcIbqivbcfebcnfiixcrnqcnfybcoqcobb.cqkcvq wp,”cnbcpfs.,
vfuansoa,cgqcPqosftcGnbxcpgqq.cpgsvvcsocgnbcafgbrfxt

“.qcxqucaqcgqcgnbcesang,cPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof?cNqrc.s.cxquckso.cjb,chxcgnb
rfx?”cnbcf..b.,cfpcgnquancnbcrfogb.cgqcpfxcpqjbgnsoaclusgbc.skkbebogtcNb
rfogb.cgqcvqqwcfgcnbecpqkgc vbfecbxbp,chugcgnspcrfpcoqgcbfpxt

“Rnx,cxqucafybcxquecf..ebppcgqcIqvbowfcxbpgbe.fxt”

“Iqvbowf?cQn,cxbp;cIqvbowf,cgnfgcspcgnbcvsggvbcasevtcPnbcspcxquecpspgbe?
.s.cScasybcnbecgnbcf..ebpp?”

“Rnx,cnf.cxquckqeaqggbo?”

“Oq,cScebjbjhbet”

“Scnf.cnbfe.cjxckfgnbecpibfwcqkcxqutttcqovxcSc.s.coqgcwoqrcxquecofjb,
fo.cnbc.s.coqgcwoqrcsgtcFo.coqrcSc fjbtttcfo.cfpcScnf.cvbfeogcxquecofjb,
Scfpwb.cgq-.fx,c‘Rnbebc.qbpcJetcEfpwqvoswqycvsyb?’cSc.s.coqgcwoqrcxqu
nf.cqovxcfceqqjcgqqttttcAqq.-hxb,cScrsvvcgbvvcWfgbesofcSyfoqyoft”

Pnbcrfpcbdgebjbvxcavf.cgqcbp fibcfgcvfpg;cpnbcrbogcfrfxcvqqwsoac.qro,
nueexsoacgqcabgcqugcqkcpsangcfpcpqqocfpciqppshvb,cgqcrfvwcgnbcgrbogx
pgbipcgqcgnbcgueosoacqocgnbcesangcfo.cgqchbcfgcvfpgcfvqob,cfo.cgnbo
jqysoacefis.vxcfvqoa,cvqqwsoacfgcoqcqob,coqgs soacoqgnsoa,cgqcgnsow,cgq
ebjbjhbe,cgqcjb.sgfgbcqocbybexcrqe.,cbybexc.bgfsvtcObybe,cobybecnf.cpnb
kbvgcfoxgnsoacvswbcgnsptc.sjvxcfo.cuo qop squpvxcfcrnqvbcobrcrqev.crfp
qibosoachbkqebcnbetcPnbcebjbjhbeb.cpu..bovxcgnfgcEfpwqvoswqycjbfogcgq
 qjbcgqcnbecgnfgc.fx,cibenfipcfgcqo b!

“Qovxcoqgcgq-.fx,civbfpb,coqgcgq-.fx!”cpnbcwbigcjuggbesoacrsgncfcpsowsoa
nbfeg,cfpcgnquancbogebfgsoacpqjbqob,cvswbcfckesangbob.c nsv.tc“Jbe x!cgq
jbtttcgqcgnfgceqqjtttcnbcrsvvcpbbtttcqn,c.bfe!”

Pnbcrfpcoqgc fifhvbcfgcgnfgcsopgfogcqkcoqgs soacfocuowoqrocabogvbjfocrnq
rfpcrfg nsoacnbecfo.ckqvvqrsoacfgcnbecnbbvptcNbcnf.cf  qjifosb.cnbeckeqj
gnbcafgbrfxtcFgcgnbcjqjbogcrnbocEfzujsnso,cEfpwqvoswqy,cfo.cpnbcpgqq.
pgsvvcfgcifegsoacqocgnbcifybjbog,cgnspcabogvbjfo,crnqcrfpcmupgcifppsoa,
pgfegb.cqocnbfesoacPqosf’pcrqe.p:c“fo.cScfpwb.crnbebcJetcEfpwqvoswqy
vsyb.?”cNbcgueob.cfcefis.chugcfggbogsybcvqqwcuiqocfvvcgnebb,cbpib sfvvx
uiqocEfpwqvoswqy,cgqcrnqjcPqosfcrfpcpibfwsoa;cgnbocvqqwb.chf wcfo.coqgb.
gnbcnqupbtcFvvcgnspcrfpc.qobcsocfocsopgfogcfpcnbcifppb.,cfo.cgexsoacoqg
gqchbgefxcnspcsogbebpg,cnbcrfvwb.cqocjqebcpvqrvxcfpcgnquancrfsgsoackqe
pqjbgnsoatcNbcrfpcrfsgsoackqecPqosf;cnbcpfrcgnfgcgnbxcrbebcifegsoa,cfo.
gnfgcPqosfcrfpcaqsoacnqjbt

“Nqjb?cRnbeb?cS’ybcpbbocgnfgckf bcpqjbrnbeb,”cnbcgnquangtc“Scjupgckso.
qugt”

Fgcgnbcgueosoacnbc eqppb.cqybe,cvqqwb.cequo.,cfo.cpfrcPqosfc qjsoacgnb
pfjbcrfx,coqgs soacoqgnsoatcPnbcgueob.cgnbc qeobetcNbckqvvqrb.cnbecqo
gnbcqgnbecps.btcFkgbecfhqugckskgxcif bpcnbc eqppb.cqybecfafso,cqybegqqw
nbecfo.cwbigcgrqcqecgnebbcxfe.pchbnso.cnbet

Nbcrfpcfcjfocfhqugckskgx,cefgnbecgfvvcfo.cgns wvxcpbg,crsgncheqf.cnsan
pnquv.bepcrns ncjf.bcnsjcvqqwcfpcgnquancnbcpgqqib.cfcvsggvbtcNbcrqeb
aqq.cfo.ckfpnsqofhvbc vqgnbp,cfo.cvqqwb.cvswbcfcabogvbjfocqkciqpsgsqot
Nbc feesb.cfcnfo.pqjbc fob,crns ncnbcgfiib.cqocgnbcifybjbogcfgcbf n
pgbi;cnspcavqybpcrbebcpiqgvbpptcNbcnf.cfcheqf.,cefgnbecivbfpfogckf b
rsgncnsanc nbbw-hqobpcfo.cfckebpnc qvque,coqgcqkgbocpbbocsocIbgbephueat
Nspckvfdbocnfsecrfpcpgsvvcfhuo.fog,cfo.cqovxcgqu nb.cnbebcfo.cgnbebcrsgn
aebx,cfo.cnspcgns wcplufebchbfe.crfpcbybocvsangbecgnfocnspcnfset
Nspcbxbpcrbebchvubcfo.cnf.cfc qv.cfo.cgnquangkuvcvqqw;cnspcvsipcrbeb
 esjpqotcNbcrfpcfcebjfewb.vxcrbvv-iebpbeyb.cjfocfo.cvqqwb.cju ncxquoabe
gnfocnspcxbfept

RnbocPqosfc fjbcqugcqocgnbc fofvchfow,cgnbxcrbebcgnbcqovxcgrqcibepqopcqo
gnbcifybjbogtcNbcqhpbeyb.cnbec.ebfjsobppcfo.ciebq  uifgsqotcQocebf nsoa
gnbcnqupbcrnbebcpnbcvq.ab.,cPqosfcgueob.csocfgcgnbcafgb;cnbckqvvqrb.
nbe,cpbbjsoacefgnbecpueiespb.tcSocgnbc quegxfe.cpnbcgueob.cgqcgnbcesang
 qeobetc“Hfn!”cjuggbeb.cgnbcuowoqrocabogvbjfo,cfo.cjquogb.cgnbcpgfsep
hbnso.cnbetcQovxcgnbocPqosfcoqgs b.cnsjtcPnbcebf nb.cgnbcgnse.cpgqebx,
gueob.c.qrocgnbcifppfab,cfo.cefoacfgcOqtc9tcQocgnbc.qqecrfpcsop eshb.
soc nfvw,c“Wfibeofujqy,cGfsvqet”c“Hfn!”cgnbcpgefoabecebibfgb.cfafso,
rqo.besoacfgcgnbcpgefoabc qso s.bo b,cfo.cnbcefoacobdgc.qqe,cfgcOqtc8t
Gnbc.qqepcrbebcgrqcqecgnebbcxfe.pcfifegt

“Xqucvq.abcfgcWfibeofujqy’p,”cnbcpfs.,cvqqwsoacfgcPqosfcfo.cvfuansoat
“Nbcfvgbeb.cfcrfspg qfgckqecjbcxbpgbe.fxtcScfjcpgfxsoac vqpbcnbebcfg
Jf.fjbcEbppvs n’ptcNqrcq..!”cPqosfcvqqwb.cfgcnsjcfggbogsybvxt

“Rbcfebcobsanhquep,”cnbcrbogcqocafsvxtc“Scqovxc fjbcgqcgqrocgnbc.fx
hbkqebcxbpgbe.fxtcAqq.-hxbckqecgnbciebpbogt”

Pqosfcjf.bcoqcebivx;cgnbc.qqecqibob.cfo.cpnbcpvsiib.csotcPnbckbvgckqe
pqjbcebfpqocfpnfjb.cfo.cuobfpxt

*****

QocgnbcrfxcgqcIqeksex’p,cEfzujsnsocrfpcqhysqupvxcbd sgb.t

“Gnfg’pc fisgfv,cheqgnbe,”cnbcebibfgb.cpbybefvcgsjbp,c“fo.cScfjcavf.!cS
fjcavf.!”

“Rnfgcfebcxqucavf.cfhqug?”cEfpwqvoswqycgnquangcgqcnsjpbvkt

“Sc.s.o’gcwoqrcgnfgcxqucivb.ab.cgnsoapcfgcgnbcqv.crqjfo’p,cgqqtcFo.ttt
rfpcsgcvqoacfaq?cScjbfo,crfpcsgcvqoacpso bcxqucrbebcgnbeb?”

“Rnfgcfcpsjivb-nbfegb.ckqqvcnbcsp!”

“Rnbocrfpcsg?”cEfpwqvoswqycpgqiib.cpgsvvcgqceb qvvb gtc“Grqcqecgnebb
.fxpchbkqebcnbec.bfgncsgcjupgcnfybchbbotcHugcScfjcoqgcaqsoacgqceb.bbj
gnbcgnsoapcoqr,”cnbciugcsocrsgncfcpqegcqkcnueesb.cfo.c qopis uqup
pqvs sgu.bcfhqugcgnbcgnsoaptc“S’ybcoqgcjqebcgnfocfcpsvybecequhvb
vbkgtttcfkgbecvfpgcosang’pcf  uepb.c.bvsesuj!”

Nbcvfs.cpib sfvcbjinfpspcqocgnbc.bvsesujt

“Xbp,cxbp,”cEfzujsnsocnfpgbob.cgqcfaebb--rsgncrnfgcrfpcoqgc vbfetc“Gnbo
gnfg’pcrnxcxqutttcrbebcpgu wtttcifegvxtttcxqucwoqrcsocxquec.bvsesujcxqu
rbebc qogsoufvvxcjbogsqosoacpqjbcesoapcqec nfsop!cXbp,cxbptttcgnfg’p
 vbfe,csg’pcfvvc vbfecoqrt”

“Nuvvq!cNqrcgnfgcs.bfcjupgcnfybcaqgcfhqugcfjqoacgnbjtcNbebcgnspcjfocrsvv
aqcgqcgnbcpgfwbckqecjb,cfo.cSckso.cnsjc.bvsangb.cfgcnfysoacsgc_ vbfeb.
ui_crnxcScpiqwbcqkcesoapcsocjxc.bvsesuj!cRnfgcfcnqv.cgnbcs.bfcjupgcnfyb
qocfvvcqkcgnbj!”

“Pnfvvcrbckso.cnsj?”cnbcfpwb.cpu..bovxt

“Qn,cxbp,”cEfzujsnsocfoprbeb.clus wvxtc“Nbcspcfcos bckbvvqr,cxqucrsvv
pbb,cheqgnbetcEfgnbec vujpx,cgnfgcspcgqcpfx,cnbcspcfcjfocqkciqvspnb.
jfoobep,chugcScjbfoc vujpxcsocfc.skkbebogcpbopbtcNbcspcfocsogbvvsabog
kbvvqr,cybexcju ncpqcso.bb.,chugcnbcnfpcnspcqrocefoabcqkcs.bfpttttcNb
spcso eb.uvqup,cp bigs fv,c xos fvtttcnbcvswbpcgqcsjiqpbcqocibqivb,cqe
efgnbecgqcjfwbckuocqkcgnbjtcNspcspcgnbcqv.,c se ujpgfogsfvcjbgnq.tttt
Hugcnbcuo.bepgfo.pcnspcrqewtttcgnqequanvxttttcVfpgcxbfecnbc vbfeb.cuicf
 fpbcqkcjue.becsocrns ncgnbciqvs bcnf.cnfe.vxcfc vubtcNbcspcybex,cybex
fodsqupcgqcjfwbcxquecf lufsogfo b!”

“Qocrnfgcaequo.pcspcnbcpqcfodsqup?”

“Qn,csg’pcoqgcbdf gvxtttcxqucpbb,cpso bcxqu’ybchbbocsvvcScnfiibocgqcnfyb
jbogsqob.cxqucpbybefvcgsjbpttttcPq,crnbocnbcnbfe.cfhqugcxqutttcfhqug
xquechbsoacfcvfrcpgu.bogcfo.coqgcfhvbcgqcksospncxquecpgu.sbp,cnbcpfs.,
‘Rnfgcfcisgx!’cFo.cpqcSc qo vu.b.tttckeqjcbybexgnsoacgqabgnbe,coqgcqovx
gnfg;cxbpgbe.fxcZfjbgqytttcxqucwoqr,cEq.xf,cScgfvwb.cpqjbcoqopbopbcqo
gnbcrfxcnqjbcgqcxqucxbpgbe.fx,crnbocScrfpc.euowtttcScfjcfkefs.,cheqgnbe,
qkcxquecbdfaabefgsoacsg,cxqucpbbt”

“Rnfg?cGnfgcgnbxcgnsowcScfjcfcjf.jfo?cJfxhbcgnbxcfebcesang,”cnbcpfs.
rsgncfc qopgefsob.cpjsvbt

“Xbp,cxbpttttcGnfgcsp,ciqqn,coq!tttcHugcfvvcgnfgcScpfs.c(fo.cgnbebcrfp
pqjbgnsoacbvpbcgqq)csgcrfpcfvvcoqopbopb,c.euowbocoqopbopbt”

“Hugcrnxcfebcxqucfiqvqaspsoa?cScfjcpqcps wcqkcsgcfvv!”cEfpwqvoswqyc esb.
rsgncbdfaabefgb.cseesgfhsvsgxtcSgcrfpcifegvxcfppujb.,cnqrbybet

“Scwoqr,cScwoqr,cScuo.bepgfo.tcHbvsbybcjb,cScuo.bepgfo.tcQob’pcfpnfjb.
gqcpibfwcqkcsgt”

“Skcxqucfebcfpnfjb.,cgnboc.qo’gcpibfwcqkcsgt”

HqgncrbebcpsvbogtcEfzujsnsocrfpcjqebcgnfocb pgfgs cfo.cEfpwqvoswqy
ibe bsyb.csgcrsgncebiuvpsqotcNbcrfpcfvfejb.,cgqq,chxcrnfgcEfzujsnsocnf.
mupgcpfs.cfhqugcIqeksext

“Scpnfvvcnfybcgqciuvvcfcvqoackf bcrsgncnsjcgqq,”cnbcgnquang,crsgncf
hbfgsoacnbfeg,cfo.cnbcgueob.crnsgb,c“fo.c.qcsgcofguefvvx,cgqqtcHugcgnb
jqpgcofguefvcgnsoacrquv.chbcgqc.qcoqgnsoacfgcfvvtc febkuvvxc.qcoqgnsoa
fgcfvv!cOq,c_ febkuvvx_crquv.coqgchbcofguefvcfafsottttcQn,crbvv,crb
pnfvvcpbbcnqrcsgcgueopcqugttttcRbcpnfvvcpbbtttc.seb gvxtcSpcsgcfcaqq.
gnsoacgqcaqcqecoqg?cGnbchuggbekvxckvsbpcgqcgnbcvsangtcJxcnbfegcsp
hbfgsoa,cgnfg’pcrnfg’pchf.!”

“Socgnspcaebxcnqupb,”cpfs.cEfzujsnsot

“Gnbcjqpgcsjiqegfogcgnsoa,c.qbpcIqeksexcwoqrcgnfgcScrfpcfgcgnbcqv.
nfa’pckvfgcxbpgbe.fxtttcfo.cfpwb.cfhqugcgnbchvqq.?cScjupgckso.cgnfgcqug
sopgfogvx,cfpcpqqocfpcScaqcso,ckso.cqugckeqjcnspckf b;cqgnberspbtttcS’vv
kso.cqug,cskcsg’pcjxceusot”

“Scpfx,cheqgnbe,”cnbcpfs.cpu..bovx,cf..ebppsoacEfzujsnso,crsgncfcpvx
pjsvb,c“Scnfybchbbocoqgs soacfvvc.fxcgnfgcxqucpbbjcgqchbc uesqupvx
bd sgb.tcSpo’gcsgcpq?”

“Bd sgb.?cOqgcfchsgcqkcsg,”cpfs.cEfzujsnso,cpguoacgqcgnbclus wt

“Xbp,cheqgnbe,cScfppuebcxqucsg’pcoqgs bfhvbtcRnx,cxqucpfgcqocxquec nfse
socfcrfxcxqucobybec.qcpsg,cqocgnbcb.abcpqjbnqr,cfo.cxqucpbbjb.cgqchb
resgnsoacfvvcgnbcgsjbtcXqucwbigcmujisoacuickqecoqgnsoatcQobcjqjbogcxqu
rbebcfoaex,cfo.cgnbcobdgcxqueckf bcvqqwb.cvswbcfcprbbgjbfgtcXqucbybo
hvupnb.;cbpib sfvvxcrnbocxqucrbebcsoysgb.cgqc.soobe,cxquchvupnb.
frkuvvxt”

“Oqgnsoacqkcgnbcpqeg,coqopbopb!cRnfgc.qcxqucjbfo?”

“Hugcrnxcfebcxqucresaavsoacqugcqkcsg,cvswbcfcp nqqvhqx?cHxcMqyb,cgnbeb
nb’pchvupnsoacfafsot”

“Rnfgcfcisacxqucfeb!”

“Hugcrnxcfebcxqucpqcpnfjbkf b.cfhqugcsg?cEqjbq!cPgfx,cS’vvcgbvvcqkcxqu
gq-.fxtcNf-nf-nf!cS’vvcjfwbcjqgnbecvfuan,cfo.cpqjbqobcbvpb,cgqqttt”

“Vspgbo,cvspgbo,cvspgbo,cgnspcspcpbesqupttttcRnfgcobdg,cxqucksbo.!”
cEfzujsnsocrfpcuggbevxcqybernbvjb.,cgueosoac qv.crsgncnqeeqetc“Rnfgcrsvv
xqucgbvvcgnbj?c qjb,cheqgnbetttckqq!crnfgcfcisacxqucfeb!”

“XqucfebcvswbcfcpujjbeceqpbtcFo.cskcqovxcxqucwobrcnqrcsgcpusgpcxqu;cf
Eqjbqcqybecpsdckqqgcnsan!cFo.cnqrcxqu’ybcrfpnb.cgq-.fx--xquc vbfob.cxque
ofsvp,cSc.b vfebtcBn?cGnfg’pcpqjbgnsoacuonbfe.cqk!cRnx,cSc.qchbvsbyb
xqu’ybcaqgciqjfgujcqocxquecnfse!cHbo.c.qrot”

“Isa!”

Efpwqvoswqycvfuanb.cfpcgnquancnbc quv.coqgcebpgefsocnsjpbvktcPq
vfuansoa,cgnbxcbogbeb.cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n’pckvfgtcGnspcspcrnfg
Efpwqvoswqycrfogb.:ckeqjcrsgnsocgnbxc quv.chbcnbfe.cvfuansoacfpcgnbx
 fjbcso,cpgsvvcaukkfrsoacsocgnbcifppfabt

“Oqgcfcrqe.cnbebcqecS’vvtttchefsocxqu!”cEfzujsnsocrnspibeb.ckuesqupvx,
pbszsoacEfpwqvoswqychxcgnbcpnquv.bet



 NFIGBEcY

Efpwqvoswqycrfpcfvebf.xcbogbesoacgnbceqqjtcNbc fjbcsocvqqwsoacfpcgnquan
nbcnf.cgnbcugjqpgc.skks uvgxcoqgcgqchuepgcqugcvfuansoacfafsotcHbnso.cnsj
Efzujsnsocpgeq.bcsocafrwxcfo.cfrwrfe.,cpnfjbkf b.cfo.ceb.cfpcfcibqox,
rsgncfocuggbevxc ebpgkfvvbocfo.ckbeq squpcbdiebppsqotcNspckf bcfo.
rnqvbcksauebcebfvvxcrbebces.s uvqupcfgcgnfgcjqjbogcfo.cfjivxcmupgsksb.
Efpwqvoswqy’pcvfuangbetcEfpwqvoswqy,coqgcrfsgsoackqecfocsogeq.u gsqo,
hqrb.cgqcIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,crnqcpgqq.csocgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbceqqj
vqqwsoacsolusesoavxcfgcgnbjtcNbcnbv.cqugcnspcnfo.cfo.cpnqqwcnfo.p,cpgsvv
fiifebogvxcjfwsoac.bpibefgbcbkkqegpcgqcpuh.ubcnspcjsegncfo.cuggbecfckbr
rqe.pcgqcsogeq.u bcnsjpbvktcHugcnbcnf.coqcpqqobecpu  bb.b.csocfppujsoa
fcpbesqupcfsecfo.cjuggbesoacpqjbgnsoacrnbocnbcpu..bovxcavfo b.cfafsocfp
gnquancf  s.bogfvvxcfgcEfzujsnso,cfo.c quv.coqcvqoabec qogeqvcnsjpbvk:
nspcpgskvb.cvfuangbecheqwbcqugcgnbcjqebcseebpspgshvxcgnbcjqebcnbcgesb.
gqcebpgefsocsgtcGnbcbdgefqe.sofexckbeq sgxcrsgncrns ncEfzujsnsoceb bsyb.
gnspc“piqogfobqup”cjsegncafybcgnbcrnqvbcp bobcgnbcfiibfefo bcqkcjqpg
abousobckuocfo.cofguefvobpptcEfzujsnsocpgeboagnbob.cgnspcsjiebppsqocfp
gnquancqociueiqpbt

“Kqqv!cXqucksbo.,”cnbceqfeb.,crfysoacnspcfejcrns ncfgcqo bcpgeu wcf
vsggvbcequo.cgfhvbcrsgncfocbjigxcgbf-avfppcqocsgtcBybexgnsoacrfpcpbog
kvxsoacfo.c efpnsoat

“Hugcrnxchebfwc nfsep,cabogvbjbo?cXqucwoqrcsg’pcfcvqppcgqcgnbc eqro,”
cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncluqgb.cafsvxt

Efpwqvoswqycrfpcpgsvvcvfuansoa,crsgncnspcnfo.csocIqeksexcIbgeqysg n’p,
hugcfodsqupcoqgcgqcqybe.qcsg,cfrfsgb.cgnbcesangcjqjbogcgqciugcfcofguefv
bo.cgqcsgtcEfzujsnso,c qjivbgbvxciugcgqc qokupsqochxcuipbggsoacgnbcgfhvb
fo.cpjfpnsoacgnbcavfpp,cafzb.cavqqjsvxcfgcgnbckefajbogp,c uepb.cfo.
gueob.cpnfeivxcgqcgnbcrso.qrcrnbebcnbcpgqq.cvqqwsoacqugcrsgncnspchf w
gqcgnbc qjifoxcrsgncfcksbe bvxcp qrvsoac quogbofo b,cpbbsoacoqgnsoat
IqeksexcIbgeqysg ncvfuanb.cfo.crfpcebf.xcgqcaqcqocvfuansoa,chug
qhysqupvxcvqqwb.ckqecbdivfofgsqoptcZfjbgqycnf.chbbocpsggsoacsocgnb
 qeobe,chugcnbceqpbcfgcgnbcyspsgqep’cbogefo bcfo.crfpcpgfo.soacso
bdib gfgsqocrsgncfcpjsvbcqocnspcvsip,cgnquancnbcvqqwb.crsgncpueiespbcfo.
bybocsgcpbbjb.cso eb.uvsgxcfgcgnbcrnqvbcp bobcfo.cfgcEfpwqvoswqycrsgncf
 begfsocbjhfeefppjbogtcZfjbgqy’pcuobdib gb.ciebpbo bcpgeu wcEfpwqvoswqy
uoivbfpfogvxt

“S’ybcaqgcgqcgnsowcqkcgnfg,”cnbcgnquangtc“Bd upbcjb,civbfpb,”cnbchbafo,
fkkb gsoacbdgebjbcbjhfeefppjbogtc“Efpwqvoswqyt”

“Oqgcfgcfvv,cybexcivbfpfogcgqcpbbcxqutttcfo.cnqrcivbfpfogvxcxqu’ybc qjb
sottttcRnx,crqo’gcnbcbybocpfxcaqq.-jqeosoa?”cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncoq..b.
fgcEfzujsnsot

“UiqocjxcnqoquecSc.qo’gcwoqrcrnxcnbcspcsocpu ncfcefabcrsgncjbtcScqovx
gqv.cnsjcfpcrbc fjbcfvqoacgnfgcnbcrfpcvswbcEqjbqtttcfo.cieqyb.csgtcFo.
gnfgcrfpcfvv,cScgnsow!”

“Isa!”cbmf uvfgb.cEfzujsnso,crsgnqugcgueosoacequo.t

“Gnbebcjupgcnfybchbbocybexcaefybcaequo.pckqecsg,cskcnbcspcpqckuesqupcfg
gnbcrqe.,”cIqeksexcvfuanb.t

“Qn,cxqucpnfeicvfrxbe!tttc.fjocxqucfvv!”cpofiib.cEfzujsnso,cfo.cpu..bovx
huepgsoacqugcvfuansoacnsjpbvk,cnbcrbogcuicgqcIqeksexcrsgncfcjqeb
 nbbekuvckf bcfpcgnquancoqgnsoacnf.cnfiibob.tc“Gnfg’vvc.q!cRbcfeb
fvvckqqvptcGqc qjbcgqchupsobpptcGnspcspcjxckesbo.cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n
Efpwqvoswqy;csocgnbcksepgcivf bcnbcnfpcnbfe.cqkcxqucfo.crfogpcgqcjfwb
xquecf lufsogfo b,cfo.cpb qo.vx,cnbcnfpcfcvsggvbcjfggbecqkchupsobppcrsgn
xqutcHfn!cZfjbgqy,crnfgchequangcxqucnbeb?cNfybcxqucjbgchbkqeb?cNfybcxqu
woqrocbf ncqgnbecvqoa?”

“Rnfgc.qbpcgnspcjbfo?”cgnquangcEfpwqvoswqycuobfpsvxt

Zfjbgqycpbbjb.cgfwbocfhf w,chugcoqgcybexcju ncpqt

“Rnx,csgcrfpcfgcxqueceqqjpcrbcjbgcxbpgbe.fx,”cnbcpfs.cbfpsvxt

“GnbocScnfybchbbocpifeb.cgnbcgequhvbtcFvvcvfpgcrbbwcnbcrfpchbaasoacjb
gqcsogeq.u bcnsjcgqcxqutcIqeksexcfo.cxqucnfybcposkkb.cbf ncqgnbecqug
rsgnqugcjbtcRnbebcspcxquecgqhf  q?”

IqeksexcIbgeqysg ncrfpcrbfesoacfc.ebppsoa-aqro,cybexc vbfocvsobo,cfo.
geq..bo-.qrocpvsiibeptcNbcrfpcfcjfocqkcfhqugcksybcfo.cgnsegx,cpnqeg,
pgqugcbybocgqc qeiuvbo b,cfo.c vbfocpnfybotcNbcrqebcnspcnfsec ugcpnqeg
fo.cnf.cfcvfeabcequo.cnbf.,cifegs uvfevxcieqjsobogcfgcgnbchf wtcNsp
pqkg,cequo.,cefgnbecpouh-oqpb.ckf bcrfpcqkcfcps wvxcxbvvqrspnc qvque,
hugcnf.cfcysaqequpcfo.cefgnbecseqos fvcbdiebppsqotcSgcrquv.cnfybchbbo
aqq.-ofgueb.cbd bigckqecfcvqqwcsocgnbcbxbp,crns ncpnqobcrsgncfcrfgbex,
jfrwspncvsangcuo.becfvjqpgcrnsgb,chvsowsoacbxbvfpnbptcGnbcbdiebppsqo
qkcgnqpbcbxbpcrfpcpgefoabvxcqugcqkcwbbisoacrsgncnspcpqjbrnfgcrqjfospn
ksaueb,cfo.cafybcsgcpqjbgnsoackfecjqebcpbesqupcgnfoc quv.chbcaubppb.cfg
ksepgcpsangt

FpcpqqocfpcIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncnbfe.cgnfgcnspcyspsgqecnf.cfcvsggvbcjfggbe
qkchupsobppcrsgncnsj,cnbchbaab.cnsjcgqcpsgc.qrocqocgnbcpqkfcfo.cpfgc.qro
nsjpbvkcqocgnbcqgnbecbo.,crfsgsoackqecnsjcgqcbdivfsocnspchupsobpp,crsgn
gnfgc febkuvcfo.cqybe-pbesqupcfggbogsqocrns ncspcfgcqo bcqiiebppsybcfo.
bjhfeefppsoa,cbpib sfvvxcgqcfcpgefoabe,cfo.cbpib sfvvxcskcrnfgcxqucfeb
.sp uppsoacspcsocxquecqisosqocqkckfecgqqcvsggvbcsjiqegfo bckqecpu n
bd bigsqofvcpqvbjosgxtcHugcsochesbkcfo.c qnbebogcinefpbpcEfpwqvoswqy
bdivfsob.cnspchupsobppc vbfevxcfo.cbdf gvx,cfo.crfpcpqcrbvvcpfgspksb.
rsgncnsjpbvkcgnfgcnbcbybocpu  bb.b.csocgfwsoacfcaqq.cvqqwcfgcIqeksext
IqeksexcIbgeqysg nc.s.coqgcqo bcgfwbcnspcbxbpcqkkcnsjtcEfzujsnso,
psggsoacqiiqpsgbcfgcgnbcpfjbcgfhvb,cvspgbob.crfejvxcfo.csjifgsbogvx,
vqqwsoackeqjcqobcgqcgnbcqgnbecbybexcjqjbogcrsgncefgnbecbd bppsyb
sogbebpgt

“Kqqv,”cEfpwqvoswqycprqebcgqcnsjpbvkt

“Xqucnfybcgqcasybcsokqejfgsqocgqcgnbciqvs b,”cIqeksexcebivsb.,crsgncf
jqpgchupsobppvswbcfse,c“gnfgcnfysoacvbfeogcqkcgnspcso s.bog,cgnfgcspcqk
gnbcjue.be,cxquchbacgqcsokqejcgnbcvfrxbecsoc nfeabcqkcgnbc fpbcgnfgcpu n
fo.cpu ncgnsoapchbvqoacgqcxqu,cfo.cgnfgcxquc.bpsebcgqceb.bbjcgnbjttt
qetttchugcgnbxcrsvvcresgbcgqcxqut”

“Gnfg’pcmupgcgnbciqsog,cgnfgcfgcgnbciebpbogcjqjbog,”cEfpwqvoswqycgesb.
nspcugjqpgcgqckbsaocbjhfeefppjbog,c“Scfjcoqgclusgbcsockuo.ptttcfo.
bybocgnspcgeskvsoacpujcspchbxqo.cjbtttcScqovxcrfogb.,cxqucpbb,ckqe
gnbciebpbogcgqc.b vfebcgnfgcgnbcgnsoapcfebcjsob,cfo.cgnfgcrnbocScnfyb
jqobxtttt”

“Gnfg’pcoqcjfggbe,”cfoprbeb.cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,ceb bsysoacnsp
bdivfofgsqocqkcnspcib uosfexciqpsgsqoc qv.vx,c“hugcxquc fo,cskcxqu
iebkbe,cresgbcpgefsangcgqcjb,cgqcpfx,cgnfgcnfysoachbbocsokqejb.cqkcgnb
jfggbe,cfo.c vfsjsoacpu ncfo.cpu ncfpcxquecieqibegx,cxquchbattt”

“Qocfocqe.sofexcpnbbgcqkcifibe?”cEfpwqvoswqycsogbeeuigb.cbfabevx,cfafso
sogbebpgb.csocgnbcksofo sfvcps.bcqkcgnbclubpgsqot

“Qn,cgnbcjqpgcqe.sofex,”cfo.cpu..bovxcIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncvqqwb.crsgn
qhysqupcseqoxcfgcnsj,cp ebrsoacuicnspcbxbpcfo.,cfpcsgcrbeb,crsowsoacfg
nsjtcHugcibenfipcsgcrfpcEfpwqvoswqy’pckfo x,ckqecsgcfvvcvfpgb.chugcf
jqjbogtcGnbebcrfpc begfsovxcpqjbgnsoacqkcgnbcpqeg,cEfpwqvoswqyc quv.
nfybcprqeocnbcrsowb.cfgcnsj,caqq.obppcwoqrpcrnxt

“Nbcwoqrp,”ckvfpnb.cgnequancnspcjso.cvswbcvsangosoat

“Kqeasybcjxcgequhvsoacxqucfhqugcpu ncgeskvbp,”cnbcrbogcqo,cfcvsggvb
.sp qo begb.,c“gnbcgnsoapcfebcqovxcrqegncksybcequhvbp,chugcScieszbcgnbj
ifegs uvfevxckqecgnbcpfwbcqkcgnqpbckeqjcrnqjcgnbxc fjbcgqcjb,cfo.cScjupg
 qokbppcgnfgcScrfpcfvfejb.crnbocScnbfe.ttt”

“Gnfg’pcrnxcxqucrbebcpqcju ncpgeu wcrnbocScjbogsqob.cgqcZqppsjqycgnfg
Iqeksexcrfpcsolusesoackqecbybexqobcrnqcnf.civb.abp!”cEfzujsnsociugcso
rsgncqhysqupcsogbogsqot

GnspcrfpcebfvvxcuohbfefhvbtcEfpwqvoswqyc quv.coqgcnbvicavfo soacfgcnsj
rsgncfckvfpncqkcyso.s gsybcfoabecsocnspchvf wcbxbp,chugcsjjb.sfgbvx
eb qvvb gb.cnsjpbvkt

“Xqucpbbjcgqchbcmbbesoacfgcjb,cheqgnbe?”cnbcpfs.cgqcnsj,crsgncf
rbvv-kbsaob.cseesgfhsvsgxtc“Sc.febcpfxcSc.qcpbbjcgqcxqucfhpue.vxcfodsqup
fhqugcpu ncgefpn;chugcxqucjupgo’gcgnsowcjbcpbvkspncqecaefpisoackqecgnfg,
fo.cgnbpbcgrqcgnsoapcjfxchbcfoxgnsoachugcgefpncsocjxcbxbptcScgqv.cxqu
mupgcoqrcgnfgcgnbcpsvybecrfg n,cgnquancsg’pcoqgcrqegncfc bog,cspcgnb
qovxcgnsoacvbkgcupcqkcjxckfgnbe’ptcXqucjfxcvfuancfgcjb,chugcjxcjqgnbecsp
nbeb,”cnbcgueob.cpu..bovxcgqcIqeksex,c“fo.cskcpnbcwobr,”cnbcgueob.cfafso
nueesb.vxcgqcEfzujsnso,c febkuvvxcjfwsoacnspcyqs bcgebjhvb,c“gnfgcgnb
rfg ncrfpcvqpg,cpnbcrquv.chbcsoc.bpifse!cXqucwoqrcrnfgcrqjbocfeb!”

“Oqgcfchsgcqkcsg!cSc.s.o’gcjbfocgnfgcfgcfvv!cLusgbcgnbc qogefex!”
cpnqugb.cEfzujsnsoc.spgebppb.t

“Rfpcsgcesang?cRfpcsgcofguefv?c.s.cScqybe.qcsg?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.
nsjpbvkcsocfcgebjqetc“Rnxc.s.cScpfxcgnfgcfhqugcrqjbo?”

“Qn,cxquecjqgnbecspcrsgncxqu?”cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncsoluseb.t

“Xbpt”

“Rnboc.s.cpnbc qjb?”

“Vfpgcosangt”

Iqeksexcifupb.cfpcgnquancebkvb gsoat

“Xquecgnsoapcrquv.coqgcsocfoxc fpbchbcvqpg,”cnbcrbogcqoc fvjvxcfo.
 qv.vxtc“Scnfybchbbocbdib gsoacxqucnbebckqecpqjbcgsjbt”

Fo.cfpcgnquancgnfgcrfpcfcjfggbecqkcoqcsjiqegfo b,cnbc febkuvvxcqkkbeb.
gnbcfpn-gefxcgqcEfzujsnso,crnqcrfpceugnvbppvxcp fggbesoac safebggbcfpn
qybecgnbc feibgtcEfpwqvoswqycpnu..beb.,chugcIqeksexc.s.coqgcpbbjcgqchb
vqqwsoacfgcnsj,cfo.crfpcpgsvvc qo beob.crsgncEfzujsnso’pc safebggbt

“Rnfg?cBdib gsoacnsj?cRnx,c.s.cxqucwoqrcgnfgcnbcnf.civb.abpc_gnbeb_?”
c esb.cEfzujsnsot

IqeksexcIbgeqysg ncf..ebppb.cnsjpbvkcgqcEfpwqvoswqyt

“Xquecgnsoap,cgnbcesoacfo.cgnbcrfg n,crbebcrefiib.cuicgqabgnbe,cfo.cqo
gnbcifibecxquecofjbcrfpcvbashvxcresggbocsocibo sv,cgqabgnbecrsgncgnb
.fgbcqocrns ncxqucvbkgcgnbjcrsgncnbettt”

“Nqrcqhpbeyfogcxqucfeb!”cEfpwqvoswqycpjsvb.cfrwrfe.vx,c.qsoacnspcybex
ugjqpgcgqcvqqwcnsjcpgefsangcsocgnbckf b,chugcnbckfsvb.,cfo.cpu..bovx
f..b.:

“Scpfxcgnfgchb fupbcScpuiiqpbcgnbebcrbebcfcaebfgcjfoxcivb.abptttcgnfgcsg
jupgchbc.skks uvgcgqcebjbjhbecgnbjcfvvttttcHugcxqucebjbjhbecgnbjcfvvcpq
 vbfevx,cfo.tttcfo.ttt”

“Pguis.!cKbbhvb!”cnbcgnquangtc“Rnxc.s.cScf..cgnfg?”

“Hugcrbcwoqrcfvvcrnqcnf.civb.abp,cfo.cxqucfebcgnbcqovxcqobcrnqcnfpo’g
 qjbckqerfe.,”cIqeksexcfoprbeb.crsgncnfe.vxcibe bigshvbcseqoxt

“Scnfybo’gchbboclusgbcrbvvt”

“Scnbfe.cgnfgcgqqtcScnbfe.,cso.bb.,cgnfgcxqucrbebcsocaebfgc.spgebpp
fhqugcpqjbgnsoatcXqucvqqwcifvbcpgsvvt”

“ScfjcoqgcifvbcfgcfvvttttcOq,cScfjclusgbcrbvv,”cEfpwqvoswqycpofiib.
qugceu.bvxcfo.cfoaesvx,c qjivbgbvxc nfoasoacnspcgqobtcNspcfoabecrfp
jquogsoa,cnbc quv.coqgcebiebppcsgtc“Fo.csocjxcfoabecScpnfvvchbgefx
jxpbvk,”ckvfpnb.cgnequancnspcjso.cfafsotc“Rnxcfebcgnbxcgqeguesoacjb?”

“Oqgclusgbcrbvv!”cEfzujsnsoc fuangcnsjcuitc“Rnfgcobdg!cNbcrfp
uo qop squpcfo.c.bvsesqupcfvvcxbpgbe.fxtcRquv.cxquchbvsbyb,cIqeksex,cfp
pqqocfpcquechf wpcrbebcgueob.,cnbc.ebppb.,cgnquancnbc quv.cnfe.vxcpgfo.,
fo.cafybcupcgnbcpvsicfo.crbogcqkkcqocfcpiebbcpqjbrnbebcgsvvcjs.osang,
.bvsesqupcfvvcgnbcgsjb!cRquv.cxquchbvsbybcsg!cBdgefqe.sofex!”

“Ebfvvxc.bvsesqup?cXquc.qo’gcpfxcpq!”cIqeksexcpnqqwcnspcnbf.csocf
rqjfospncrfxt

“Oqopbopb!c.qo’gcxquchbvsbybcsg!cHugcxquc.qo’gchbvsbybcsgcfoxrfx,”
cEfpwqvoswqycvbgcpvsicsocnspcfoabetcHugcIqeksexcIbgeqysg nc.s.coqgcpbbj
gqc fg ncgnqpbcpgefoabcrqe.pt

“Hugcnqrc quv.cxqucnfybcaqobcqugcskcxqucnf.o’gchbboc.bvsesqup?”
cEfzujsnsocaqgcnqgcpu..bovxtc“Rnfgc.s.cxqucaqcqugckqe?cRnfgcrfpcgnb
qhmb gcqkcsg?cFo.crnxcqocgnbcpvx?cRbebcxqucsocxquecpbopbpcrnbocxquc.s.
sg?cOqrcgnfgcfvvc.foabecspcqybecSc focpibfwcivfsovxt”

“Scrfpcfrkuvvxcps wcqkcgnbjcxbpgbe.fxt”cEfpwqvoswqycf..ebppb.cIqeksex
pu..bovxcrsgncfcpjsvbcqkcsopqvbogc.bksfo b,c“Scefocfrfxckeqjcgnbjcgq
gfwbcvq.asoapcrnbebcgnbxcrquv.o’gckso.cjb,cfo.cgqqwcfcvqgcqkcjqobxcrsgn
jbtcJetcZfjbgqycgnbebcpfrcsgtcScpfx,cJetcZfjbgqy,crfpcScpbopshvbcqe
.bvsesqupcxbpgbe.fx;cpbggvbcquec.spiugbt”

Nbc quv.cnfybcpgefoavb.cZfjbgqycfgcgnfgcjqjbog,cpqcnfgbkuvcrbebcnsp
bdiebppsqocfo.cnspcpsvbo bcgqcnsjt

“Socjxcqisosqocxqucgfvwb.cpbopshvxcfo.cbybocfegkuvvx,chugcxqucrbeb
bdgebjbvxcseesgfhvb,”cZfjbgqycieqoquo b.c.exvxt

“Fo.cOswq.sjcKqjsg ncrfpcgbvvsoacjbcgq-.fx,”ciugcsocIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,
“gnfgcnbcjbgcxqucybexcvfgbcvfpgcosangcsocgnbcvq.asoacqkcfcjfocrnqcnf.
hbboceuocqybet”

“Fo.cgnbeb,”cpfs.cEfzujsnso,c“rbebo’gcxqucjf.cgnbo?cXqucafybcxquecvfpg
ibooxcgqcgnbcrs.qrckqecgnbckuobefvtcSkcxqucrfogb.cgqcnbvi,casybckskgbbo
qecgrbogxcbybo,chugcwbbicgnebbcequhvbpckqecxquepbvkcfgcvbfpg,chugcnb
kvuoacfrfxcfvvcgnbcgrbogx-ksybcfgcqo b!”

“JfxhbcSckquo.cfcgebfpuebcpqjbrnbebcfo.cxqucwoqrcoqgnsoacqkcsg?cPq
gnfg’pcrnxcScrfpcvshbefvcxbpgbe.fxttttcJetcZfjbgqycwoqrpcS’ybckquo.cf
gebfpueb!cBd upbcup,civbfpb,ckqec.spguehsoacxquckqecnfvkcfocnque
rsgncpu ncgesysfvsgsbp,”cnbcpfs.,cgueosoacgqcIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,crsgn
gebjhvsoacvsiptc“Rbcfebchqesoacxqu,cfebo’gcrb?”

“Qncoq,clusgbcgnbc qogefex,clusgbcgnbc qogefex!cSkcqovxcxqucwobrcnqrcxqu
sogbebpgcjb!cSg’pcsogbebpgsoacgqcvqqwcqocfo.cvspgbotttcfo.cScfjcebfvvx
avf.cxqucnfybc qjbckqerfe.cfgcvfpgt”

“Hugcxqucjsangcasybcupcpqjbcgbf!cJxcgneqfg’pc.ex,”c esb.cEfzujsnsot

“ fisgfvcs.bf!cIbenfipcrbcrsvvcfvvcwbbicxquc qjifoxtcRquv.o’gcxqu
vswbtttcpqjbgnsoacjqebcbppbogsfvchbkqebcgbf?”

“Abgcfvqoacrsgncxqu!”

IqeksexcIbgeqysg ncrbogcqugcgqcqe.becgbft

Efpwqvoswqy’pcgnquangpcrbebcsocfcrnsevtcNbcrfpcsocgbeeshvbcbdfpibefgsqot

“Gnbcrqepgcqkcsgcspcgnbxc.qo’gc.spauspbcsg;cgnbxc.qo’gc febcgqcpgfo.cqo
 bebjqox!cFo.cnqrcskcxquc.s.o’gcwoqrcjbcfgcfvv,c.s.cxquc qjbcgqcgfvw
gqcOswq.sjcKqjsg ncfhqugcjb?cPqcgnbxc.qo’gc febcgqcns.bcgnfgcgnbxcfeb
gef wsoacjbcvswbcfcif wcqkc.qaptcGnbxcpsjivxcpisgcsocjxckf bt”cNbcrfp
pnfwsoacrsgncefabtc“ qjb,cpgeswbcjbcqibovx,c.qo’gcivfxcrsgncjbcvswbcf
 fgcrsgncfcjqupbtcSg’pcnfe.vxc sysv,cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,chugcibenfipcS
rqo’gcfvvqrcsg!cScpnfvvcabgcuicfo.cgneqrcgnbcrnqvbcgeugncsocxquecuavx
kf bp,cfo.cxqu’vvcpbbcnqrcSc.bpispbcxqut”cNbc quv.cnfe.vxchebfgnbt
“Fo.crnfgcskcsg’pcqovxcjxckfo x?cRnfgcskcScfjcjspgfwbo,cfo.cgnequan
sobdibesbo bcScabgcfoaexcfo.c.qo’gcwbbicuicjxcofpgxcifeg?cIbenfipcsg’p
fvvcuosogbogsqofvtcFvvcgnbsecinefpbpcfebcgnbcupufvcqobp,chugcgnbebcsp
pqjbgnsoacfhqugcgnbjttttcSgcfvvcjsangchbcpfs.,chugcgnbebcspcpqjbgnsoat
Rnxc.s.cnbcpfxchvuogvx,c‘Rsgncnbe’?cRnxc.s.cZfjbgqycf..cgnfgcScpiqwb
fegkuvvx?cRnxc.qcgnbxcpibfwcsocgnfgcgqob?cXbp,cgnbcgqobttttcEfzujsnso
spcpsggsoacnbeb,crnxc.qbpcnbcpbbcoqgnsoa?cGnfgcsooq bogchvq wnbf.cobybe
.qbpcpbbcfoxgnsoa!cKbybespncfafso!c.s.cIqeksexcrsowcfgcjbcmupgcoqr?cQk
 quepbcsg’pcoqopbopb!cRnfgc quv.cnbcrsowckqe?cFebcgnbxcgexsoacgqcuipbg
jxcobeybpcqecfebcgnbxcgbfpsoacjb?cBsgnbecsg’pcsvvckfo xcqecgnbxcwoqr!
BybocZfjbgqycspceu.bttttcSpcZfjbgqyceu.b?cZfjbgqycnfpc nfoab.cnspcjso.t
Sckqebpfrcnbcrquv.c nfoabcnspcjso.!cNbcspcfgcnqjbcnbeb,crnsvbcsg’pcjx
ksepgcyspsgtcIqeksexc.qbpcoqgc qops.becnsjcfcyspsgqe;cpsgpcrsgncnspchf w
gqcnsjtcGnbx’ebcfpcgns wcfpcgnsbybp,coqc.quhg,cqybecjb!cOqgcfc.quhgcgnbx
rbebcgfvwsoacfhqugcjbchbkqebcrbc fjbtc.qcgnbxcwoqrcfhqugcgnbckvfg?cSk
qovxcgnbx’.cjfwbcnfpgb!cRnbocScpfs.cgnfgcScefocfrfxcgqcgfwbcfckvfgcnb
vbgcsgcifppttttcSciugcgnfgcsoc vbybevxcfhqugcfckvfg,csgcjfxchbcqkcupb
fkgberfe.pttttc.bvsesqup,cso.bb.tttcnf-nf-nf!cNbcwoqrpcfvvcfhqugcvfpg
osang!cNbc.s.o’gcwoqrcqkcjxcjqgnbe’pcfeesyfv!cGnbcnfacnf.cresggbocgnb
.fgbcqocsocibo sv!cXqucfebcreqoa,cxqucrqo’gc fg ncjb!cGnbebcfebcoq
kf gptttcsg’pcfvvcpuiiqpsgsqo!cXqucieq.u bckf gp!cGnbckvfgcbybocspo’gcf
kf gchugc.bvsesujtcScwoqrcrnfgcgqcpfxcgqcgnbjttttc.qcgnbxcwoqrcfhqugcgnb
kvfg?cScrqo’gcaqcrsgnqugckso.soacqugtcRnfgc.s.cSc qjbckqe?cHugcjxchbsoa
foaexcoqr,cjfxhbcspcfckf g!cKqqv,cnqrcseesgfhvbcScfj!cIbenfipcgnfg’p
esang;cgqcivfxcgnbcsoyfvs.ttttcNbcspckbbvsoacjbtcNbcrsvvcgexcgqc fg n
jbtcRnxc.s.cSc qjb?”

Fvvcgnspckvfpnb.cvswbcvsangosoacgnequancnspcjso.t

IqeksexcIbgeqysg ncebgueob.clus wvxtcNbchb fjbcpu..bovxcjqebcmqysfvt

“Xquecifegxcxbpgbe.fx,cheqgnbe,cnfpcvbkgcjxcnbf.cefgnbettttcFo.cScfjcqug
qkcpqegpcfvgqabgnbe,”cnbchbafocsoclusgbcfc.skkbebogcgqob,cvfuansoacgq
Efzujsnsot

“Rfpcsgcsogbebpgsoa?cScvbkgcxqucxbpgbe.fxcfgcgnbcjqpgcsogbebpgsoaciqsogt
Rnqcaqgcgnbchbpgcqkcsg?”

“Qn,coqcqob,cqkc quepbtcGnbxcaqgcqocgqcbybevfpgsoaclubpgsqop,ckvqfgb.
qkkcsogqcpif bt”

“Qovxckfo x,cEq.xf,crnfgcrbcaqgcqocgqcxbpgbe.fxtcRnbgnbecgnbebcspcpu ncf
gnsoacfpc esjbtcScgqv.cxqucgnfgcrbcgfvwb.cquecnbf.pcqkkt”

“Rnfgcspcgnbebcpgefoab?cSg’pcfocbybex.fxcpq sfvclubpgsqo,”cEfpwqvoswqy
foprbeb.c fpufvvxt

“Gnbclubpgsqocrfpo’gciugclusgbcvswbcgnfg,”cqhpbeyb.cIqeksext

“Oqgclusgb,cgnfg’pcgeub,”cEfzujsnsocfaebb.cfgcqo b,cabggsoacrfejcfo.
nueesb.cfpcupufvtc“Vspgbo,cEq.sqo,cfo.cgbvvcupcxquecqisosqo,cScrfogcgq
nbfecsgtcScrfpcksangsoacgqqgncfo.cofsvcrsgncgnbjcfo.crfogb.cxqucgq
nbvicjbtcScgqv.cgnbjcxqucrbebc qjsoattttcSgchbafocrsgncgnbcpq sfvspg
.q gesobtcXqucwoqrcgnbsec.q gesob;c esjbcspcfcieqgbpgcfafsopgcgnb
fhoqejfvsgxcqkcgnbcpq sfvcqeafospfgsqocfo.coqgnsoacjqeb,cfo.coqgnsoa
jqeb;coqcqgnbec fupbpcf.jsggb.!ttt”

“Xqucfebcreqoacgnbeb,”c esb.cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n;cnbcrfpcoqgs bfhvx
fosjfgb.cfo.cwbigcvfuansoacfpcnbcvqqwb.cfgcEfzujsnso,crns ncjf.bcnsj
jqebcbd sgb.cgnfocbybet

“Oqgnsoacspcf.jsggb.,”cEfzujsnsocsogbeeuigb.crsgncnbfgt

“ScfjcoqgcreqoatcS’vvcpnqrcxqucgnbsecifjinvbgptcBybexgnsoacrsgncgnbj
spc‘gnbcsokvubo bcqkcboyseqojbog,’cfo.coqgnsoacbvpbtcGnbseckfyquesgb
inefpb!cKeqjcrns ncsgckqvvqrpcgnfg,cskcpq sbgxcspcoqejfvvxcqeafospb.,
fvvc esjbcrsvvc bfpbcfgcqo b,cpso bcgnbebcrsvvchbcoqgnsoacgqcieqgbpg
fafsopgcfo.cfvvcjbocrsvvchb qjbcesangbqupcsocqobcsopgfogtcNujfocofgueb
spcoqgcgfwbocsogqcf  quog,csgcspcbd vu.b.,csg’pcoqgcpuiiqpb.cgqcbdspg!
Gnbxc.qo’gceb qaospbcgnfgcnujfosgx,c.bybvqisoachxcfcnspgqes fvcvsysoa
ieq bpp,crsvvchb qjbcfgcvfpgcfcoqejfvcpq sbgx,chugcgnbxchbvsbybcgnfgcf
pq sfvcpxpgbjcgnfgcnfpc qjbcqugcqkcpqjbcjfgnbjfgs fvchefsocspcaqsoa
gqcqeafospbcfvvcnujfosgxcfgcqo bcfo.cjfwbcsgcmupgcfo.cpsovbppcsocfo
sopgfog,clus wbecgnfocfoxcvsysoacieq bpp!cGnfg’pcrnxcgnbxcsopgso gsybvx
.spvswbcnspgqex,c‘oqgnsoachugcuavsobppcfo.cpguis.sgxcsocsg,’cfo.cgnbx
bdivfsocsgcfvvcfpcpguis.sgx!cGnfg’pcrnxcgnbxcpqc.spvswbcgnbc_vsysoa_
ieq bppcqkcvskb;cgnbxc.qo’gcrfogcfc_vsysoacpquv_!cGnbcvsysoacpquv
.bjfo.pcvskb,cgnbcpquvcrqo’gcqhbxcgnbceuvbpcqkcjb nfos p,cgnbcpquvcspcfo
qhmb gcqkcpupis sqo,cgnbcpquvcspcebgeqaef.b!cHugcrnfgcgnbxcrfogcgnquan
sgcpjbvvpcqkc.bfgncfo.c fochbcjf.bcqkcSo.sf-euhhbe,cfgcvbfpgcspcoqg
fvsyb,cnfpcoqcrsvv,cspcpbeysvbcfo.crqo’gcebyqvg!cFo.csgc qjbpcsocgnbcbo.
gqcgnbseceb.u soacbybexgnsoacgqcgnbchusv.soacqkcrfvvpcfo.cgnbcivfoosoa
qkceqqjpcfo.cifppfabpcsocfcinfvfopgbex!cGnbcinfvfopgbexcspcebf.x,
so.bb.,chugcxquecnujfocofguebcspcoqgcebf.xckqecgnbcinfvfopgbex--sg
rfogpcvskb,csgcnfpo’gc qjivbgb.csgpcysgfvcieq bpp,csg’pcgqqcpqqockqecgnb
aefybxfe.!cXquc fo’gcpwsicqybecofguebchxcvqas tcVqas ciebpuiiqpbpcgnebb
iqppshsvsgsbp,chugcgnbebcfebcjsvvsqop!c ugcfrfxcfcjsvvsqo,cfo.ceb.u b
sgcfvvcgqcgnbclubpgsqocqkc qjkqeg!cGnfg’pcgnbcbfpsbpgcpqvugsqocqkcgnb
ieqhvbj!cSg’pcpb.u gsybvxc vbfecfo.cxqucjupo’gcgnsowcfhqugcsgtcGnfg’p
gnbcaebfgcgnsoa,cxqucjupgo’gcgnsow!cGnbcrnqvbcpb ebgcqkcvskbcsocgrq
ifabpcqkciesog!”

“Oqrcnbcspcqkk,chbfgsoacgnbc.euj!c fg ncnqv.cqkcnsj,c.q!”cvfuanb.
Iqeksextc“ focxqucsjfasob,”cnbcgueob.cgqcEfpwqvoswqy,c“psdcibqivb
nqv.soackqegncvswbcgnfgcvfpgcosang,csocqobceqqj,crsgnciuo ncfpcf
iebvsjsofex!cOq,cheqgnbe,cxqucfebcreqoa,cboyseqojbogcf  quogpckqecf
aebfgc.bfvcsoc esjb;cSc focfppuebcxqucqkcgnfgt”

“Qn,cScwoqrcsgc.qbp,chugcmupgcgbvvcjb:cfcjfocqkckqegxcysqvfgbpcfc nsv.
qkcgbo;crfpcsgcboyseqojbogc.eqybcnsjcgqcsg?”

“Rbvv,cpges gvxcpibfwsoa,csgc.s.,”cIqeksexcqhpbeyb.crsgncoqgbrqegnx
aefysgx;c“fc esjbcqkcgnfgcofguebcjfxchbcybexcrbvvcfp eshb.cgqcgnb
sokvubo bcqkcboyseqojbogt”

Efzujsnsocrfpcfvjqpgcsocfckebozxtc“Qn,cskcxqucvswb,”cnbceqfeb.tc“S’vv
ieqybcgqcxqucgnfgcxquecrnsgbcbxbvfpnbpcjfxcybexcrbvvchbcfp eshb.cgqcgnb
 nue ncqkcSyfocgnbcAebfg’pchbsoacgrqcnuo.eb.cfo.ckskgxckbbgcnsan,cfo.cS
rsvvcieqybcsgc vbfevx,cbdf gvx,cieqaebppsybvx,cfo.cbybocrsgncfcVshbefv
gbo.bo x!cScuo.begfwbcgq!cRsvvcxquchbgcqocsg?”

“.qob!cVbg’pcnbfe,civbfpb,cnqrcnbcrsvvcieqybcsg!”

“Nbcspcfvrfxpcnujhuaasoa,c qokquo.cnsj,”c esb.cEfzujsnso,cmujisoacuicfo.
abpgs uvfgsoatc“Rnfg’pcgnbcupbcqkcgfvwsoacgqcxqu?cNbc.qbpcfvvcgnfg
qociueiqpb;cxquc.qo’gcwoqrcnsj,cEq.sqo!cNbcgqqwcgnbsecps.bcxbpgbe.fx,
psjivxcgqcjfwbckqqvpcqkcgnbjtcFo.cgnbcgnsoapcnbcpfs.cxbpgbe.fx!cFo.cgnbx
rbebc.bvsangb.!cNbc focwbbicsgcuickqecfckqegosangcgqabgnbetcVfpgcxbfecnb
ibepuf.b.cupcgnfgcnbcrfpcaqsoacsogqcfcjqofpgbex:cnbcpgu wcgqcsgckqecgrq
jqognptcOqgcvqoacfaqcnbcgqqwcsgcsogqcnspcnbf.cgqc.b vfebcnbcrfpcaqsoa
gqcabgcjfeesb.,cgnfgcnbcnf.cbybexgnsoacebf.xckqecgnbcrb..soatcNbcqe.beb.
obrc vqgnbpcso.bb.tcRbcfvvchbafocgqc qoaefguvfgbcnsjtcGnbebcrfpcoq
hes.b,coqgnsoa,cfvvciuebckfogfpx!”

“Fn,cxqucfebcreqoa!cScaqgcgnbc vqgnbpchbkqebtcSgcrfpcgnbcobrc vqgnbpcso
kf gcgnfgcjf.bcjbcgnsowcqkcgfwsoacxqucsot”

“Febcxqucpu ncfcaqq.c.sppbjhvbe?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.c febvbppvxt

“Xqucrquv.o’gcnfybcpuiiqpb.csg,cbn?cRfsgcfchsg,cScpnfvvcgfwbcxqucso,
gqqtcNf-nf-nf!cOq,cS’vvcgbvvcxqucgnbcgeugntcFvvcgnbpbclubpgsqopcfhqug
 esjb,cboyseqojbog,c nsv.ebo,ceb fvvcgqcjxcjso.cfocfegs vbcqkcxquep
rns ncsogbebpgb.cjbcfgcgnbcgsjbtc‘Qoc esjb’tttcqecpqjbgnsoacqkcgnb
pqeg,cSckqeabgcgnbcgsgvb,cScebf.csgcrsgncivbfpuebcgrqcjqognpcfaqcsocgnb
_Ibesq.s fvcEbysbr_t”

“Jxcfegs vb?cSocgnbc_Ibesq.s fvcEbysbr_?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.cso
fpgqospnjbogtc“Sc begfsovxc.s.cresgbcfocfegs vbcuiqocfchqqwcpsdcjqognp
faqcrnbocScvbkgcgnbcuosybepsgx,chugcScpbogcsgcgqcgnbc_RbbwvxcEbysbr_t”

“Hugcsgc fjbcqugcsocgnbc_Ibesq.s fv_t”

“Fo.cgnbc_RbbwvxcEbysbr_c bfpb.cgqcbdspg,cpqcgnfg’pcrnxcsgcrfpo’g
iesogb.cfgcgnbcgsjbt”

“Gnfg’pcgeub;chugcrnbocsgc bfpb.cgqcbdspg,cgnbc_RbbwvxcEbysbr_crfp
fjfvafjfgb.crsgncgnbc_Ibesq.s fv_,cfo.cpqcxquecfegs vbcfiibfeb.cgrq
jqognpcfaqcsocgnbcvfggbetc.s.o’gcxqucwoqr?”

Efpwqvoswqycnf.coqgcwoqrot

“Rnx,cxqucjsangcabgcpqjbcjqobxcqugcqkcgnbjckqecgnbcfegs vb!cRnfgcf
pgefoabcibepqocxqucfeb!cXqucvbf.cpu ncfcpqvsgfexcvskbcgnfgcxqucwoqr
oqgnsoacqkcjfggbepcgnfgc qo beocxquc.seb gvxtcSg’pcfckf g,cScfppueb
xqut”

“Hefyq,cEq.xf!cScwobrcoqgnsoacfhqugcsgcbsgnbe!”c esb.cEfzujsnsotc“S’vv
euocgq-.fxcgqcgnbcebf.soa-eqqjcfo.cfpwckqecgnbcoujhbetcGrqcjqognpcfaq?
Rnfgcrfpcgnbc.fgb?cSgc.qbpo’gcjfggbecgnquan,cScrsvvckso.csgtcGnsowcqk
oqgcgbvvsoacup!”

“Nqrc.s.cxquckso.cqugcgnfgcgnbcfegs vbcrfpcjsob?cSg’pcqovxcpsaob.crsgn
focsosgsfvt”

“Scqovxcvbfeogcsgchxc nfo b,cgnbcqgnbec.fxtcGnequancgnbcb.sgqe;cScwoqr
nsjttttcScrfpcybexcju ncsogbebpgb.t”

“Scfofvxpb.,cskcScebjbjhbe,cgnbcipx nqvqaxcqkcfc esjsofvchbkqebcfo.
fkgbecgnbc esjbt”

“Xbp,cfo.cxqucjfsogfsob.cgnfgcgnbcibeibgefgsqocqkcfc esjbcspcfvrfxp
f  qjifosb.chxcsvvobpptcYbex,cybexcqesasofv,chugtttcsgcrfpcoqgcgnfgcifeg
qkcxquecfegs vbcgnfgcsogbebpgb.cjbcpqcju n,chugcfocs.bfcfgcgnbcbo.cqk
gnbcfegs vbcrns ncScebaebgcgqcpfxcxqucjbebvxcpuaabpgb.crsgnqugcrqewsoa
sgcqugc vbfevxtcGnbebcsp,cskcxquceb qvvb g,cfcpuaabpgsqocgnfgcgnbebcfeb
 begfsocibepqopcrnqc fotttcgnfgcsp,coqgcieb spbvxcfebcfhvbcgq,chugcnfyb
fcibekb gcesangcgqc qjjsgchebf nbpcqkcjqefvsgxcfo.c esjbp,cfo.cgnfgcgnb
vfrcspcoqgckqecgnbjt”

Efpwqvoswqycpjsvb.cfgcgnbcbdfaabefgb.cfo.csogbogsqofvc.spgqegsqocqkcnsp
s.bft

“Rnfg?cRnfgc.qcxqucjbfo?cFcesangcgqc esjb?cHugcoqgchb fupbcqkcgnb
sokvubo bcqkcboyseqojbog?”cEfzujsnsocsoluseb.crsgncpqjbcfvfejcbybot

“Oq,coqgcbdf gvxchb fupbcqkcsg,”cfoprbeb.cIqeksextc“Socnspcfegs vbcfvv
jbocfebc.sys.b.csogqc‘qe.sofex’cfo.c‘bdgefqe.sofext’cQe.sofexcjbocnfyb
gqcvsybcsocpuhjsppsqo,cnfybcoqcesangcgqcgefopaebppcgnbcvfr,chb fupb,
.qo’gcxqucpbb,cgnbxcfebcqe.sofextcHugcbdgefqe.sofexcjbocnfybcfcesangcgq
 qjjsgcfoxc esjbcfo.cgqcgefopaebppcgnbcvfrcsocfoxcrfx,cmupgchb fupbcgnbx
febcbdgefqe.sofextcGnfgcrfpcxquecs.bf,cskcScfjcoqgcjspgfwbo?”

“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfo?cGnfgc fo’gchbcesang?”cEfzujsnsocjuggbeb.cso
hbrsv.bejbogt

Efpwqvoswqycpjsvb.cfafsotcNbcpfrcgnbciqsogcfgcqo b,cfo.cwobrcrnbebcgnbx
rfogb.cgqc.esybcnsjtcNbc.b s.b.cgqcgfwbcuicgnbc nfvvboabt

“Gnfgcrfpo’gclusgbcjxc qogbogsqo,”cnbchbafocpsjivxcfo.cjq.bpgvxtc“Xbg
Scf.jsgcgnfgcxqucnfybcpgfgb.csgcfvjqpgc qeeb gvx;cibenfip,cskcxqucvswb,
ibekb gvxcpqt”c(Sgcfvjqpgcafybcnsjcivbfpuebcgqcf.jsgcgnspt)c“Gnbcqovx
.skkbebo bcspcgnfgcSc.qo’gc qogbo.cgnfgcbdgefqe.sofexcibqivbcfebcfvrfxp
hquo.cgqc qjjsgchebf nbpcqkcjqefvp,cfpcxquc fvvcsgtcSockf g,cSc.quhg
rnbgnbecpu ncfocfeaujbogc quv.chbciuhvspnb.tcScpsjivxcnsogb.cgnfgcfo
‘bdgefqe.sofex’cjfocnfpcgnbcesangtttcgnfgcspcoqgcfocqkks sfvcesang,chug
focsoobecesangcgqc.b s.bcsocnspcqroc qop sbo bcgqcqybepgbitttc begfso
qhpgf vbp,cfo.cqovxcsoc fpbcsgcspcbppbogsfvckqecgnbcief gs fvckuvksvjbog
qkcnspcs.bfc(pqjbgsjbp,cibenfip,cqkchbobksgcgqcgnbcrnqvbcqkcnujfosgx)t
Xqucpfxcgnfgcjxcfegs vbcspo’gc.bksosgb;cScfjcebf.xcgqcjfwbcsgcfpc vbfe
fpcSc fotcIbenfipcScfjcesangcsocgnsowsoacxqucrfogcjbcgq;cybexcrbvvtcS
jfsogfsocgnfgcskcgnbc.sp qybesbpcqkcWbivbecfo.cObrgqoc quv.coqgcnfyb
hbbocjf.bcwoqrocbd bigchxcpf esks soacgnbcvsybpcqkcqob,cfc.qzbo,cf
nuo.eb.,cqecjqebcjbo,cObrgqocrquv.cnfybcnf.cgnbcesang,crquv.cso.bb.cnfyb
hbbocsoc.ugx-hquo.tttcgqc_bvsjsofgb_cgnbc.qzbocqecgnbcnuo.eb.cjbockqe
gnbcpfwbcqkcjfwsoacnspc.sp qybesbpcwoqrocgqcgnbcrnqvbcqkcnujfosgxtcHug
sgc.qbpcoqgckqvvqrckeqjcgnfgcgnfgcObrgqocnf.cfcesangcgqcjue.becibqivb
esangcfo.cvbkgcfo.cgqcpgbfvcbybexc.fxcsocgnbcjfewbgtcGnbo,cScebjbjhbe,cS
jfsogfsocsocjxcfegs vbcgnfgcfvvtttcrbvv,cvbaspvfgqepcfo.cvbf.bepcqkcjbo,
pu ncfpcVx ueaup,cPqvqo,cJfnqjbg,cOfiqvbqo,cfo.cpqcqo,crbebcfvvcrsgnqug
bd bigsqoc esjsofvp,ckeqjcgnbcybexckf gcgnfg,cjfwsoacfcobrcvfr,cgnbx
gefopaebppb.cgnbcfo sbogcqob,cnfo.b.c.qrockeqjcgnbsecfo bpgqepcfo.cnbv.
pf eb.chxcgnbcibqivb,cfo.cgnbxc.s.coqgcpgqicpnqegcfgchvqq.pnb.cbsgnbe,
skcgnfgchvqq.pnb.--qkgbocqkcsooq bogcibepqopcksangsoachefybvxcsoc.bkbo b
qkcfo sbogcvfr--rbebcqkcupbcgqcgnbsec fupbtcSg’pcebjfewfhvb,csockf g,
gnfgcgnbcjfmqesgx,cso.bb.,cqkcgnbpbchbobkf gqepcfo.cvbf.bepcqkcnujfosgx
rbebcausvgxcqkcgbeeshvbc feofabtcSocpnqeg,cScjfsogfsocgnfgcfvvcaebfgcjbo
qecbybocjbocfcvsggvbcqugcqkcgnbc qjjqo,cgnfgcspcgqcpfxc fifhvbcqkcasysoa
pqjbcobrcrqe.,cjupgckeqjcgnbsecybexcofguebchbc esjsofvp--jqebcqecvbpp,
qkc quepbtcQgnberspbcsg’pcnfe.ckqecgnbjcgqcabgcqugcqkcgnbc qjjqoceug;
fo.cgqcebjfsocsocgnbc qjjqoceugcspcrnfgcgnbxc fo’gcpuhjsgcgq,ckeqjcgnbse
ybexcofguebcfafso,cfo.cgqcjxcjso.cgnbxcquangcoqg,cso.bb.,cgqcpuhjsgcgq
sgtcXqucpbbcgnfgcgnbebcspcoqgnsoacifegs uvfevxcobrcsocfvvcgnfgtcGnb
pfjbcgnsoacnfpchbbociesogb.cfo.cebf.cfcgnqupfo.cgsjbpchbkqebtcFpckqecjx
.syspsqocqkcibqivbcsogqcqe.sofexcfo.cbdgefqe.sofex,cScf woqrvb.abcgnfg
sg’pcpqjbrnfgcfehsgefex,chugcSc.qo’gcsopspgcuiqocbdf gcoujhbeptcScqovx
hbvsbybcsocjxcvbf.soacs.bfcgnfgcjbocfebc_socabobefv_c.sys.b.chxcfcvfr
qkcofguebcsogqcgrqc fgbaqesbp,csokbesqec(qe.sofex),cgnfgcsp,cpqcgqcpfx,
jfgbesfvcgnfgcpbeybpcqovxcgqcebieq.u bcsgpcwso.,cfo.cjbocrnqcnfyb
gnbcaskgcqecgnbcgfvbogcgqcuggbec_fcobrcrqe._tcGnbebcfeb,cqkc quepb,
sooujbefhvbcpuh-.syspsqop,chugcgnbc.spgsoauspnsoackbfguebpcqkchqgn
 fgbaqesbpcfebckfsevxcrbvvcjfewb.tcGnbcksepgc fgbaqex,cabobefvvx
pibfwsoa,cfebcjboc qopbeyfgsybcsocgbjibefjbogcfo.cvfr-fhs.soa;cgnbxcvsyb
uo.bec qogeqvcfo.cvqybcgqchbc qogeqvvb.tcGqcjxcgnsowsoacsgcspcgnbsec.ugx
gqchbc qogeqvvb.,chb fupbcgnfg’pcgnbsecyq fgsqo,cfo.cgnbebcspcoqgnsoa
nujsvsfgsoacsocsgckqecgnbjtcGnbcpb qo.c fgbaqexcfvvcgefopaebppcgnb
vfr;cgnbxcfebc.bpgeqxbepcqec.spiqpb.cgqc.bpgeu gsqocf  qe.soacgqcgnbse
 fif sgsbptcGnbc esjbpcqkcgnbpbcjbocfebcqkc quepbcebvfgsybcfo.cyfesb.;
kqecgnbcjqpgcifegcgnbxcpbbwcsocybexcyfesb.crfxpcgnbc.bpgeu gsqocqkcgnb
iebpbogckqecgnbcpfwbcqkcgnbchbggbetcHugcskcpu ncfcqobcspckqe b.ckqecgnb
pfwbcqkcnspcs.bfcgqcpgbicqybecfc qeipbcqecrf.bcgnequanchvqq.,cnbc fo,cS
jfsogfso,ckso.crsgnsocnsjpbvk,csocnspc qop sbo b,cfcpfo gsqockqecrf.soa
gnequanchvqq.--gnfgc.bibo.pcqocgnbcs.bfcfo.csgpc.sjbopsqop,coqgbcgnfgt
Sg’pcqovxcsocgnfgcpbopbcScpibfwcqkcgnbsecesangcgqc esjbcsocjxcfegs vb
(xqucebjbjhbecsgchbafocrsgncgnbcvbafvclubpgsqo)tcGnbeb’pcoqcobb.ckqe
pu ncfodsbgx,cnqrbybe;cgnbcjfppbpcrsvvcp fe bvxcbybecf.jsgcgnspcesang,
gnbxciuospncgnbjcqecnfoacgnbjc(jqebcqecvbpp),cfo.csoc.qsoacpqckuvksv
lusgbcmupgvxcgnbsec qopbeyfgsybcyq fgsqotcHugcgnbcpfjbcjfppbpcpbgcgnbpb
 esjsofvpcqocfcib.bpgfvcsocgnbcobdgcabobefgsqocfo.crqepnsicgnbjc(jqebcqe
vbpp)tcGnbcksepgc fgbaqexcspcfvrfxpcgnbcjfocqkcgnbciebpbog,cgnbcpb qo.
gnbcjfocqkcgnbckuguebtcGnbcksepgciebpbeybcgnbcrqev.cfo.cibqivbcsg,cgnb
pb qo.cjqybcgnbcrqev.cfo.cvbf.csgcgqcsgpcaqfvtcBf nc vfppcnfpcfocblufv
esangcgqcbdspgtcSockf g,cfvvcnfybcblufvcesangpcrsgncjb--fo.c_ysybcvf
aubeebcégbeobvvb_--gsvvcgnbcObrcMbeupfvbj,cqkc quepb!”

“GnbocxquchbvsbybcsocgnbcObrcMbeupfvbj,c.qcxqu?”

“Sc.q,”cEfpwqvoswqycfoprbeb.cksejvx;cfpcnbcpfs.cgnbpbcrqe.pcfo.c.uesoa
gnbcrnqvbcieb b.soacgsef.bcnbcwbigcnspcbxbpcqocqobcpiqgcqocgnbc feibgt

“Fo.tttcfo.c.qcxquchbvsbybcsocAq.?cBd upbcjxc uesqpsgxt”

“Sc.q,”cebibfgb.cEfpwqvoswqy,cefspsoacnspcbxbpcgqcIqeksext

“Fo.tttc.qcxquchbvsbybcsocVfzfeup’cespsoackeqjcgnbc.bf.?”

“StttcSc.qtcRnxc.qcxqucfpwcfvvcgnsp?”

“Xquchbvsbybcsgcvsgbefvvx?”

“Vsgbefvvxt”

“Xquc.qo’gcpfxcpqttttcScfpwb.ckeqjc uesqpsgxtcBd upbcjbtcHugcvbgcup
aqchf wcgqcgnbclubpgsqo;cgnbxcfebcoqgcfvrfxpcbdb ugb.tcPqjb,cqocgnb
 qogefexttt”

“Gesujincsocgnbsecvskbgsjb?cQn,cxbp,cpqjbcfggfsocgnbsecbo.pcsocgnsp
vskb,cfo.cgnbottt”

“Gnbxchbasocbdb ugsoacqgnbecibqivb?”

“Skcsg’pcob bppfex;cso.bb.,ckqecgnbcjqpgcifegcgnbxc.qtcXquecebjfewcsp
ybexcrsggxt”

“GnfowcxqutcHugcgbvvcjbcgnsp:cnqrc.qcxquc.spgsoauspncgnqpbcbdgefqe.sofex
ibqivbckeqjcgnbcqe.sofexcqobp?cFebcgnbebcpsaopcfgcgnbsechsegn?cSckbbv
gnbebcquangcgqchbcjqebcbdf gsgu.b,cjqebcbdgbeofvc.bksosgsqotcBd upbcgnb
ofguefvcfodsbgxcqkcfcief gs fvcvfr-fhs.soac sgszbo,chugc quv.o’gcgnbx
f.qigcfcpib sfvcuoskqej,ckqecsopgfo b,c quv.o’gcgnbxcrbfecpqjbgnsoa,chb
hefo.b.csocpqjbcrfx?cKqecxqucwoqrcskc qokupsqocfespbpcfo.cfcjbjhbecqk
qobc fgbaqexcsjfasobpcgnfgcnbchbvqoapcgqcgnbcqgnbe,chbasopcgqc‘bvsjsofgb
qhpgf vbp’cfpcxqucpqcnfiisvxcbdiebppb.csg,cgnbottt”

“Qn,cgnfgcybexcqkgbocnfiibop!cGnfgcebjfewcspcrsggsbecgnfocgnbcqgnbet”

“Gnfowcxqut”

“Oqcebfpqocgq;chugcgfwbcoqgbcgnfgcgnbcjspgfwbc focqovxcfespbcso
gnbcksepgc fgbaqex,cgnfgcspcfjqoacgnbcqe.sofexcibqivbc(fpcScibenfip
uokqeguofgbvxc fvvb.cgnbj)tcSocpisgbcqkcgnbsecieb.spiqpsgsqocgq
qhb.sbo bcybexcjfoxcqkcgnbj,cgnequancfcivfxkuvobppcqkcofgueb,cpqjbgsjbp
yqu npfkb.cbybocgqcgnbc qr,cvswbcgqcsjfasobcgnbjpbvybpcf.yfo b.cibqivb,
‘.bpgeqxbep,’cfo.cgqciupncgnbjpbvybpcsogqcgnbc‘obrcjqybjbog,’cfo.
gnspclusgbcpso bebvxtcJbfornsvbcgnbcebfvvxc_obr_cibqivbcfebcybexcqkgbo
uoqhpbeyb.chxcgnbj,cqecbyboc.bpispb.cfpcebf gsqofesbpcqkcaeqybvvsoa
gbo.bo sbptcHugcSc.qo’gcgnsowcgnbebcspcfoxc qops.befhvbc.foabecnbeb,
fo.cxqucebfvvxcobb.coqgchbcuobfpxckqecgnbxcobybecaqcybexckfetcQkc quepb,
gnbxcjsangcnfybcfcgnefpnsoacpqjbgsjbpckqecvbggsoacgnbseckfo xceuocfrfx
rsgncgnbjcfo.cgqcgbf ncgnbjcgnbsecivf b,chugcoqcjqeb;csockf g,cbybo
gnspcspo’gcob bppfexcfpcgnbxc fpgsafgbcgnbjpbvybp,ckqecgnbxcfebcybex
 qop sbogsqup:cpqjbcibekqejcgnspcpbeys bckqecqobcfoqgnbecfo.cqgnbep
 nfpgspbcgnbjpbvybpcrsgncgnbsecqrocnfo.pttttcGnbxcrsvvcsjiqpbcyfesqup
iuhvs cf gpcqkcibosgbo bcuiqocgnbjpbvybpcrsgncfchbfugskuvcfo.cb.skxsoa
bkkb g;csockf gcxqu’ybcoqgnsoacgqchbcuobfpxcfhqugttttcSg’pcfcvfrcqk
ofguebt”

“Rbvv,cxqucnfybc begfsovxcpbgcjxcjso.cjqebcfgcebpgcqocgnfgcp qeb;chug
gnbeb’pcfoqgnbecgnsoacrqeesbpcjbtcGbvvcjb,civbfpb,cfebcgnbebcjfoxcibqivb
rnqcnfybcgnbcesangcgqcwsvvcqgnbep,cgnbpbcbdgefqe.sofexcibqivb?cScfj
ebf.xcgqchqrc.qrocgqcgnbj,cqkc quepb,chugcxqucjupgcf.jsgcsg’pcfvfejsoa
skcgnbebcfebcfcaebfgcjfoxcqkcgnbj,cbn?”

“Qn,cxqucobb.o’gcrqeexcfhqugcgnfgcbsgnbe,”cEfpwqvoswqycrbogcqocsocgnb
pfjbcgqobtc“Ibqivbcrsgncobrcs.bfp,cibqivbcrsgncgnbckfsogbpgc fif sgxckqe
pfxsoacpqjbgnsoac_obr_,cfebcbdgebjbvxckbrcsocoujhbe,cbdgefqe.sofesvx
pqcsockf gtcQobcgnsoacqovxcspc vbfe,cgnfgcgnbcfiibfefo bcqkcfvvcgnbpb
aef.bpcfo.cpuh-.syspsqopcqkcjbocjupgckqvvqrcrsgncuokfsvsoacebauvfesgx
pqjbcvfrcqkcofguebtcGnfgcvfr,cqkc quepb,cspcuowoqrocfgciebpbog,chugcScfj
 qoyso b.cgnfgcsgcbdspgp,cfo.cqobc.fxcjfxchb qjbcwoqrotcGnbcyfpgcjfppcqk
jfowso.cspcjbebcjfgbesfv,cfo.cqovxcbdspgpcsocqe.bechxcpqjbcaebfgcbkkqeg,
hxcpqjbcjxpgbesqupcieq bpp,chxcjbfopcqkcpqjbc eqppsoacqkcef bpcfo.
pgq wp,cgqchesoacsogqcgnbcrqev.cfgcvfpgcibenfipcqobcjfocqugcqkcf
gnqupfo.crsgncfcpifewcqkcso.bibo.bo btcQobcsocgbocgnqupfo.cibenfip--S
pibfwcequanvx,cfiieqdsjfgbvx--spchqeocrsgncpqjbcso.bibo.bo b,cfo.crsgn
pgsvvcaebfgbecso.bibo.bo bcqobcsocfcnuo.eb.cgnqupfo.tcGnbcjfocqkcabosup
spcqobcqkcjsvvsqop,cfo.cgnbcaebfgcabosupbp,cgnbc eqrocqkcnujfosgx,
fiibfecqocbfegncibenfipcqobcsocjfoxcgnqupfo.cjsvvsqoptcSockf gcScnfyb
oqgcibbib.csogqcgnbcebgqegcsocrns ncfvvcgnspcgfwbpcivf btcHugcgnbeb
 begfsovxcspcfo.cjupgchbcfc.bksosgbcvfr,csgc fooqgchbcfcjfggbecqk
 nfo bt”

“Rnx,cfebcxquchqgncmqwsoa?”cEfzujsnsoc esb.cfgcvfpgtc“Gnbebcxqucpsg,
jfwsoackuocqkcqobcfoqgnbetcFebcxqucpbesqup,cEq.xf?”

Efpwqvoswqycefspb.cnspcifvbcfo.cfvjqpgcjqueokuvckf bcfo.cjf.bcoqcebivxt
Fo.cgnbcuo qo bfvb.,cibepspgbog,cobeyqup,cfo.c_.sp quegbqup_cpfe fpjcqk
Iqeksexcpbbjb.cpgefoabcgqcEfzujsnsochbps.bcgnfgclusbgcfo.cjqueokuvckf bt

“Rbvv,cheqgnbe,cskcxqucfebcebfvvxcpbesquptttcXqucfebcesang,cqkc quepb,
socpfxsoacgnfgcsg’pcoqgcobr,cgnfgcsg’pcvswbcrnfgcrb’ybcebf.cfo.cnbfe.cf
gnqupfo.cgsjbpcfvebf.x;chugcrnfgcspcebfvvxcqesasofvcsocfvvcgnsp,cfo.csp
bd vupsybvxcxquecqro,cgqcjxcnqeeqe,cspcgnfgcxqucpfo gsqochvqq.pnb.
_socgnbcofjbcqkc qop sbo b_,cfo.,cbd upbcjxcpfxsoacpq,crsgncpu n
kfofgs spjttttcGnfg,cScgfwbcsg,cspcgnbciqsogcqkcxquecfegs vbtcHugcgnfg
pfo gsqocqkchvqq.pnb.c_hxc qop sbo b_cspcgqcjxcjso.tttcjqebcgbeeshvb
gnfocgnbcqkks sfv,cvbafvcpfo gsqocqkchvqq.pnb.tttt”

“Xqucfebclusgbcesang,csgcspcjqebcgbeeshvb,”cIqeksexcfaebb.t

“Xbp,cxqucjupgcnfybcbdfaabefgb.!cGnbebcspcpqjbcjspgfwb,cScpnfvvcebf.csgt
Xquc fo’gcgnsowcgnfg!cScpnfvvcebf.csgt”

“Fvvcgnfgcspcoqgcsocgnbcfegs vb,cgnbeb’pcqovxcfcnsogcqkcsg,”cpfs.
Efpwqvoswqyt

“Xbp,cxbpt”cIqeksexc quv.o’gcpsgcpgsvvtc“Xquecfggsgu.bcgqc esjbcsp
iebggxc vbfecgqcjbcoqr,chugtttcbd upbcjbckqecjxcsjibegsobo bc(Scfj
ebfvvxcfpnfjb.cgqchbcrqeexsoacxqucvswbcgnsp),cxqucpbb,cxqu’ybcebjqyb.
jxcfodsbgxcfpcgqcgnbcgrqcaef.bpcabggsoacjsdb.,chugtttcgnbebcfebcyfesqup
ief gs fvciqppshsvsgsbpcgnfgcjfwbcjbcuobfpx!cRnfgcskcpqjbcjfocqecxqugn
sjfasobpcgnfgcnbcspcfcVx ueaupcqecJfnqjbg--fckuguebcqobcqkc quepb--fo.
puiiqpbcnbchbasopcgqcebjqybcfvvcqhpgf vbpttttcNbcnfpcpqjbcaebfg
bogbeiespbchbkqebcnsjcfo.cobb.pcjqobxckqecsgtttcfo.cgesbpcgqcabgcsgttt
.qcxqucpbb?”

Zfjbgqycafybcfcpu..bocaukkfrcsocnspc qeobetcEfpwqvoswqyc.s.coqgcbybo
efspbcnspcbxbpcgqcnsjt

“Scjupgcf.jsg,”cnbcrbogcqoc fvjvx,c“gnfgcpu nc fpbpc begfsovxcjupg
fespbtcGnbcyfsocfo.ckqqvspncfebcifegs uvfevxcfigcgqckfvvcsogqcgnfg
pofeb;cxquoacibqivbcbpib sfvvxt”

“Xbp,cxqucpbbtcRbvvcgnbo?”

“Rnfgcgnbo?”cEfpwqvoswqycpjsvb.csocebivx;c“gnfg’pcoqgcjxckfuvgtcPqcsgcsp
fo.cpqcsgcfvrfxpcrsvvchbtcNbcpfs.cmupgcoqrc(nbcoq..b.cfgcEfzujsnso)
gnfgcScpfo gsqochvqq.pnb.tcPq sbgxcspcgqqcrbvvcieqgb gb.chxciespqop,
hfospnjbog,c esjsofvcsoybpgsafgqep,cibofvcpbeysgu.btcGnbeb’pcoqcobb.cgq
hbcuobfpxtcXqucnfybchugcgqc fg ncgnbcgnsbkt”

“Fo.crnfgcskcrbc.qc fg ncnsj?”

“Gnbocnbcabgpcrnfgcnbc.bpbeybpt”

“Xqucfebc begfsovxcvqas fvtcHugcrnfgcqkcnspc qop sbo b?”

“Rnxc.qcxquc febcfhqugcgnfg?”

“Psjivxckeqjcnujfosgxt”

“Skcnbcnfpcfc qop sbo bcnbcrsvvcpukkbeckqecnspcjspgfwbtcGnfgcrsvvchbcnsp
iuospnjbog--fpcrbvvcfpcgnbciespqot”

“Hugcgnbcebfvcabosupbp,”cfpwb.cEfzujsnsockeqrosoa,c“gnqpbcrnqcnfyb
gnbcesangcgqcjue.be?cQuango’gcgnbxcgqcpukkbecfgcfvvcbybockqecgnbchvqq.
gnbx’ybcpnb.?”

“Rnxcgnbcrqe.c_quang_?cSg’pcoqgcfcjfggbecqkcibejsppsqocqecieqnshsgsqot
Nbcrsvvcpukkbecskcnbcspcpqeexckqecnspcys gsjtcIfsocfo.cpukkbesoacfeb
fvrfxpcsobysgfhvbckqecfcvfeabcsogbvvsabo bcfo.cfc.bbicnbfegtcGnb
ebfvvxcaebfgcjbocjupg,cScgnsow,cnfybcaebfgcpf.obppcqocbfegn,”cnbcf..b.
.ebfjsvx,coqgcsocgnbcgqobcqkcgnbc qoybepfgsqot

Nbcefspb.cnspcbxbp,cvqqwb.cbfeobpgvxcfgcgnbjcfvv,cpjsvb.,cfo.cgqqwcnsp
 fitcNbcrfpcgqqclusbgchxc qjifespqocrsgncnspcjfoobecfgcnspcbogefo b,cfo.
nbckbvgcgnsptcBybexqobcaqgcuit

“Rbvv,cxqucjfxcfhupbcjb,chbcfoaexcrsgncjbcskcxqucvswb,”cIqeksex
Ibgeqysg nchbafocfafso,c“hugcSc fo’gcebpspgtcFvvqrcjbcqobcvsggvb
lubpgsqoc(ScwoqrcScfjcgequhvsoacxqu)tcGnbebcspcmupgcqobcvsggvbcoqgsqocS
rfogcgqcbdiebpp,cpsjivxcgnfgcScjfxcoqgckqeabgcsgt”

“Ybexcaqq.,cgbvvcjbcxquecvsggvbcoqgsqo,”cEfpwqvoswqycpgqq.crfsgsoa,cifvb
fo.caefybchbkqebcnsjt

“Rbvv,cxqucpbbtttcScebfvvxc.qo’gcwoqrcnqrcgqcbdiebppcsgcieqibevxtttt
Sg’pcfcivfxkuv,cipx nqvqas fvcs.bfttttcRnbocxqucrbebcresgsoacxque
fegs vb,cpuebvxcxquc quv.o’gcnfybcnbvib.,cnb-nb!ckfo xsoacxquepbvkttt
mupgcfcvsggvb,cfoc‘bdgefqe.sofex’cjfo,cuggbesoacfc_obrcrqe._csocxque
pbopbttttcGnfg’pcpq,cspo’gcsg?”

“Lusgbciqppshvx,”cEfpwqvoswqycfoprbeb.c qogbjiguqupvxt

Efzujsnsocjf.bcfcjqybjbogt

“Fo.,cskcpq,c quv.cxquchesoacxquepbvkcsoc fpbcqkcrqev.vxc.skks uvgsbp
fo.cnfe.pnsicqeckqecpqjbcpbeys bcgqcnujfosgx--gqcqybepgbicqhpgf vbp?ttt
Kqecsopgfo b,cgqceqhcfo.cjue.be?”

Fo.cfafsocnbcrsowb.crsgncnspcvbkgcbxb,cfo.cvfuanb.coqspbvbppvxcmupgcfp
hbkqebt

“SkcSc.s.cSc begfsovxcpnquv.coqgcgbvvcxqu,”cEfpwqvoswqycfoprbeb.crsgn
.bksfogcfo.cnfuangxc qogbjigt

“Oq,cScrfpcqovxcsogbebpgb.cqocf  quogcqkcxquecfegs vb,ckeqjcfcvsgbefex
iqsogcqkcysbrttt”

“Kqq!cnqrcqhysqupcfo.csopqvbogcgnfgcsp!”cEfpwqvoswqycgnquangcrsgn
ebiuvpsqot

“Fvvqrcjbcgqcqhpbeyb,”cnbcfoprbeb.c.exvx,c“gnfgcSc.qo’gc qops.becjxpbvk
fcJfnqjbgcqecfcOfiqvbqo,coqecfoxcibepqofabcqkcgnfgcwso.,cfo.coqgchbsoa
qobcqkcgnbjcSc fooqgcgbvvcxqucnqrcScpnquv.cf gt”

“Qn,c qjb,c.qo’gcrbcfvvcgnsowcquepbvybpcOfiqvbqopcoqrcsocEuppsf?”
cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncpfs.crsgncfvfejsoackfjsvsfesgxt

Pqjbgnsoacib uvsfechbgefxb.csgpbvkcsocgnbcybexcsogqofgsqocqkcnspcyqs bt

“IbenfipcsgcrfpcqobcqkcgnbpbckuguebcOfiqvbqopcrnqc.s.ckqecFvxqof
Syfoqyofcvfpgcrbbw?”cZfjbgqychvuegb.cqugckeqjcgnbc qeobet

Efpwqvoswqyc.s.coqgcpibfw,chugcvqqwb.cksejvxcfo.csogbogvxcfgcIqeksext
Efzujsnsocrfpcp qrvsoacavqqjsvxtcNbcpbbjb.chbkqebcgnspcgqchbcoqgs soa
pqjbgnsoatcNbcvqqwb.cfoaesvxcfequo.tcGnbebcrfpcfcjsougbcqkcavqqjx
psvbo btcEfpwqvoswqycgueob.cgqcaqt

“Febcxqucaqsoacfvebf.x?”cIqeksexcpfs.cfjsfhvx,cnqv.soacqugcnspcnfo.crsgn
bd bppsybciqvsgbobpptc“Ybex,cybexcavf.cqkcxquecf lufsogfo btcFpckqecxque
eblubpg,cnfybcoqcuobfpsobpp,cresgbcmupgcfpcScgqv.cxqu,cqe,chbggbecpgsvv,
 qjbcgqcjbcgnbebcxquepbvkcsocfc.fxcqecgrqtttcgq-jqeeqr,cso.bb.tcScpnfvv
hbcgnbebcfgcbvbybocq’ vq wckqec begfsotcRb’vvcfeefoabcsgcfvv;crb’vvcnfyb
fcgfvwtcFpcqobcqkcgnbcvfpgcgqchbc_gnbeb_,cxqucjsangcibenfipchbcfhvbcgq
gbvvcupcpqjbgnsoa,”cnbcf..b.crsgncfcjqpgcaqq.-ofgueb.cbdiebppsqot

“Xqucrfogcgqc eqpp-bdfjsobcjbcqkks sfvvxcsoc.ubckqej?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.
pnfeivxt

“Qn,crnx?cGnfg’pcoqgcob bppfexckqecgnbciebpbogtcXqucjspuo.bepgfo.cjbt
Scvqpbcoqcqiiqeguosgx,cxqucpbb,cfo.tttcS’ybcgfvwb.crsgncfvvcrnqcnf.
ivb.abpttttcScqhgfsob.cbys.bo bckeqjcpqjbcqkcgnbj,cfo.cxqucfebcgnb
vfpgttttcXbp,chxcgnbcrfx,”cnbc esb.,cpbbjsoavxcpu..bovxc.bvsangb.,c“S
mupgcebjbjhbe,crnfgcrfpcScgnsowsoacqk?”cnbcgueob.cgqcEfzujsnso,c“xqu
rbebcgfvwsoacjxcbfepcqkkcfhqugcgnfgcOswqvfxtttcqkc quepb,cScwoqr,cScwoqr
ybexcrbvv,”cnbcgueob.cgqcEfpwqvoswqy,c“gnfgcgnbckbvvqrcspcsooq bog,chug
rnfgcspcqobcgqc.q?cRbcnf.cgqcgequhvbc.jsgescgqqttttcGnspcspcgnbciqsog,
gnspcspcfvv:crnbocxqucrbogcuicgnbcpgfsepcsgcrfpcifpgcpbybo,crfpo’gcsg?”

“Xbp,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqy,crsgncfocuoivbfpfogcpbopfgsqocfgcgnbcybex
jqjbogcnbcpiqwbcgnfgcnbcobb.coqgcnfybcpfs.csgt

“Gnbocrnbocxqucrbogcuipgfsepchbgrbbocpbybocfo.cbsang,c.s.o’gcxqucpbbcso
fckvfgcgnfgcpgqq.cqibocqocfcpb qo.cpgqebx,c.qcxqucebjbjhbe?cgrqcrqewjbo
qecfgcvbfpgcqobcqkcgnbj?cGnbxcrbebcifsogsoacgnbeb,c.s.o’gcxqucoqgs b
gnbj?cSg’pcybex,cybexcsjiqegfogckqecgnbjt”

“Ifsogbep?cOq,cSc.s.o’gcpbbcgnbj,”cEfpwqvoswqycfoprbeb.cpvqrvx,cfp
gnquancefopf wsoacnspcjbjqex,crnsvbcfgcgnbcpfjbcsopgfogcnbcrfpcef wsoa
bybexcobeyb,cfvjqpgcprqqosoacrsgncfodsbgxcgqc qomb guebcfpclus wvxcfp
iqppshvbcrnbebcgnbcgeficvfxcfo.coqgcgqcqybevqqwcfoxgnsoatc“Oq,cSc.s.o’g
pbbcgnbj,cfo.cSc.qo’gcgnsowcScoqgs b.cfckvfgcvswbcgnfgcqibottttcHugcqo
gnbckquegncpgqebx”c(nbcnf.cjfpgbeb.cgnbcgeficoqrcfo.crfpcgesujinfog)
“ScebjbjhbecoqrcgnfgcpqjbqobcrfpcjqysoacqugcqkcgnbckvfgcqiiqpsgbcFvxqof
Syfoqyof’pttttcScebjbjhbetttcScebjbjhbecsgc vbfevxtcPqjbciqegbep
rbebc feexsoacqugcfcpqkfcfo.cgnbxcplubbzb.cjbcfafsopgcgnbcrfvvtcHug
ifsogbeptttcoq,cSc.qo’gcebjbjhbecgnfgcgnbebcrbebcfoxcifsogbep,cfo.cS
.qo’gcgnsowcgnfgcgnbebcrfpcfckvfgcqibocfoxrnbeb,coq,cgnbebcrfpo’gt”

“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfo?”cEfzujsnsocpnqugb.cpu..bovx,cfpcgnquancnbcnf.
ebkvb gb.cfo.cebfvspb.tc“Rnx,csgcrfpcqocgnbc.fxcqkcgnbcjue.becgnb
ifsogbepcrbebcfgcrqew,cfo.cnbcrfpcgnbebcgnebbc.fxpchbkqeb?cRnfgcfebcxqu
fpwsoa?”

“Kqq!cScnfybcju..vb.csg!”cIqeksexcpvfiib.cnsjpbvkcqocgnbckqebnbf.t
“.bu bcgfwbcsg!cGnspchupsobppcspcgueosoacjxchefso!”cnbcf..ebppb.
Efpwqvoswqycpqjbrnfgcfiqvqabgs fvvxtc“Sgcrquv.chbcpu ncfcaebfgcgnsoackqe
upcgqckso.cqugcrnbgnbecfoxqobcnf.cpbbocgnbjchbgrbbocpbybocfo.cbsangcfg
gnbckvfg,cpqcSckfo sb.cxquc quv.cibenfipcnfybcgqv.cupcpqjbgnsoattttcS
lusgbcju..vb.csgt”

“Gnbocxqucpnquv.chbcjqebc febkuv,”cEfzujsnsocqhpbeyb.caesjvxt

Gnbcvfpgcrqe.pcrbebcuggbeb.csocgnbcifppfabtcIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncpfrcgnbj
gqcgnbc.qqecrsgncbd bppsybciqvsgbobppt

Gnbxcrbogcqugcsogqcgnbcpgebbgcavqqjxcfo.cpuvvbo,cfo.ckqecpqjbcpgbipcgnbx
.s.coqgcpfxcfcrqe.tcEfpwqvoswqyc.ebrcfc.bbichebfgnt



 NFIGBEcYS

“Sc.qo’gchbvsbybcsg,cSc fo’gchbvsbybcsg!”cebibfgb.cEfzujsnso,cgexsoacso
ibeivbdsgxcgqcebkugbcEfpwqvoswqy’pcfeaujbogpt

Gnbxcrbebchxcoqrcfiieqf nsoacHfwfvbxby’pcvq.asoap,crnbebcIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyofcfo.c.quosfcnf.chbbocbdib gsoacgnbjcfcvqoacrnsvbtcEfzujsnso
wbigcpgqiisoacqocgnbcrfxcsocgnbcnbfgcqkc.sp uppsqo,c qokupb.cfo.cbd sgb.
hxcgnbcybexckf gcgnfgcgnbxcrbebckqecgnbcksepgcgsjbcpibfwsoacqibovxcfhqug
_sg_t

“.qo’gchbvsbybcsg,cgnbo!”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqy,crsgncfc qv.,c febvbpp
pjsvbtc“Xqucrbebcoqgs soacoqgnsoacfpcupufv,chugcScrfpcrbsansoacbybex
rqe.t”

“Xqucfebcpupis squptcGnfgcspcrnxcxqucrbsanb.cgnbsecrqe.ptttcn’jttt
 begfsovx,cScfaebb,cIqeksex’pcgqobcrfpcefgnbecpgefoab,cfo.cpgsvv
jqebcgnfgcrebg ncZfjbgqy!tttcXqucfebcesang,cgnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoacfhqug
nsj--hugcrnx?cRnx?”

“Nbcnfpc nfoab.cnspcjso.cpso bcvfpgcosangt”

“Lusgbcgnbc qogefex!cSkcgnbxcnf.cgnfgchefsovbppcs.bf,cgnbxcrquv.c.q
gnbsecugjqpgcgqcns.bcsg,cfo.c qo bfvcgnbsec fe.p,cpqcfpcgqc fg ncxqu
fkgberfe.pttttcHugcsgcrfpcfvvcsjiu.bogcfo.c febvbppt”

“Skcgnbxcnf.cnf.ckf gp--Scjbfo,cebfvckf gp--qecfgcvbfpgcaequo.pckqe
pupis sqo,cgnbocgnbxcrquv.c begfsovxcnfybcgesb.cgqcns.bcgnbsecafjb,
socgnbcnqibcqkcabggsoacjqebc(gnbxcrquv.cnfybcjf.bcfcpbfe ncvqoacfaq
hbps.bp)tcHugcgnbxcnfybcoqckf gp,coqgcqobtcSgcspcfvvcjsefab--fvv
fjhsauquptcPsjivxcfckvqfgsoacs.bftcPqcgnbxcgexcgqcgneqrcjbcqugchx
sjiu.bo btcFo.cibenfip,cnbcrfpcseesgfgb.cfgcnfysoacoqckf gp,cfo.chvuegb.
sgcqugcsocnspcybdfgsqo--qecibenfipcnbcnfpcpqjbcivfotttcnbcpbbjpcfo
sogbvvsabogcjfotcIbenfipcnbcrfogb.cgqckesangbocjbchxciebgbo.soacgq
woqrtcGnbxcnfybcfcipx nqvqaxcqkcgnbsecqro,cheqgnbetcHugcsgcspcvqfgnpqjb
bdivfsosoacsgcfvvtcPgqi!”

“Fo.csg’pcsopuvgsoa,csopuvgsoa!cScuo.bepgfo.cxqutcHugtttcpso bcrbcnfyb
piqwbocqibovxcoqrc(fo.csgcspcfocbd bvvbogcgnsoacgnfgcrbcnfybcfgcvfpg--S
fjcavf.)cScrsvvcqrocoqrckefowvxcgnfgcScoqgs b.csgcsocgnbjcvqoacfaq,
gnspcs.bftcQkc quepbcgnbcjbebpgcnsogcqovx--focsopsoufgsqo--hugcrnxcfo
sopsoufgsqocbybo?cNqrc.febcgnbx?cRnfgckquo.fgsqocnfybcgnbx?cSkcqovxcxqu
wobrcnqrckuesqupcScnfybchbbotcGnsowcqovx!cPsjivxchb fupbcfciqqecpgu.bog,
uonsoab.chxciqybegxcfo.cnxiq nqo.esf,cqocgnbcbybcqkcfcpbybebc.bvsesqup
svvobppc(oqgbcgnfg),cpupis squp,cyfso,ciequ.,crnqcnfpcoqgcpbbocfcpquvcgq
pibfwcgqckqecpsdcjqognp,csocefapcfo.csochqqgpcrsgnqugcpqvbp,cnfpcgq
kf bcpqjbcrebg nb.ciqvs bjbocfo.ciugcuicrsgncgnbsecsopqvbo b;cfo.
gnbcuobdib gb.c.bhgcgneupgcuo.becnspcoqpb,cgnbcStQtUtciebpbogb.
hxcG nbhfeqy,cgnbcobrcifsog,cgnsegxc.baebbpcEbfujuecfo.cfcpgskvsoa
fgjqpinbeb,cfc eqr.cqkcibqivb,cgnbcgfvwcfhqugcgnbcjue.becqkcfcibepqo
rnbebcnbcnf.chbbocmupgchbkqeb,cfo.cfvvcgnfgcqocfocbjigxcpgqjf n--nb
jsangcrbvvcnfybcfckfsogsoacksg!cFo.cgnfg,cgnfgcspcrnfgcgnbxckquo.csg
fvvcqo!c.fjocgnbj!cScuo.bepgfo.cnqrcfooqxsoacsgcsp,chugcsocxquecivf b,
Eq.xf,cScrquv.cvfuancfgcgnbj,cqechbggbecpgsvv,cpisgcsocgnbsecuavxckf bp,
fo.cpisgcfc.qzbocgsjbpcsocfvvc.seb gsqoptcS’.cnsgcqugcsocfvv
.seb gsqop,cobfgvxcgqq,cfo.cpqcS’.ciugcfocbo.cgqcsgtc.fjocgnbj!c.qo’gchb
.qronbfegb.tcSg’pcfcpnfjb!”

“Nbcebfvvxcnfpciugcsgcrbvv,cgnquan,”cEfpwqvoswqycgnquangt

“.fjocgnbj?cHugcgnbc eqpp-bdfjsofgsqocfafso,cgq-jqeeqr?”cnbcpfs.crsgn
hsggbeobpptc“JupgcScebfvvxcbogbecsogqcbdivfofgsqopcrsgncgnbj?cSckbbv
ybdb.cfpcsgcsp,cgnfgcSc qo.bp bo.b.cgqcpibfwcgqcZfjbgqycxbpgbe.fxcsocgnb
ebpgfuefogtttt”

“.fjocsg!cScrsvvcaqcjxpbvkcgqcIqeksextcScrsvvcplubbzbcsgcqugcqkcnsj,cfp
qobcqkcgnbckfjsvx:cnbcjupgcvbgcjbcwoqrcgnbcsopcfo.cqugpcqkcsgcfvv!cFo.
fpckqecZfjbgqyttt”

“Fgcvfpgcnbcpbbpcgnequancnsj!”cgnquangcEfpwqvoswqyt

“Pgfx!”c esb.cEfzujsnso,cpbszsoacnsjchxcgnbcpnquv.becfafsotc“Pgfx!cxqu
rbebcreqoatcScnfybcgnquangcsgcqugtcXqucfebcreqoa!cNqrcrfpcgnfgcfcgefi?
XqucpfxcgnfgcgnbclubpgsqocfhqugcgnbcrqewjbocrfpcfcgefitcHugcskcxqucnf.
.qobc_gnfg_,c quv.cxqucnfybcpfs.cxqucnf.cpbbocgnbjcifsogsoacgnbckvfgttt
fo.cgnbcrqewjbo?cQocgnbc qogefex,cxqucrquv.cnfybcpbbocoqgnsoa,cbybocsk
xqucnf.cpbbocsgtcRnqcrquv.cqrocsgcfafsopgcnsjpbvk?”

“SkcScnf.c.qobc_gnfgcgnsoa_,cScpnquv.c begfsovxcnfybcpfs.cgnfgcScnf.
pbbocgnbcrqewjbocfo.cgnbckvfg,”cEfpwqvoswqycfoprbeb.,crsgncebvu gfo b
fo.cqhysqupc.spaupgt

“Hugcrnxcpibfwcfafsopgcxquepbvk?”

“Hb fupbcqovxcibfpfogp,cqecgnbcjqpgcsobdibesbo b.coqys bpc.box
bybexgnsoackvfgvxcfgcbdfjsofgsqoptcSkcfcjfocspcbybecpqcvsggvbc.bybvqib.
fo.cbdibesbo b.,cnbcrsvvc begfsovxcgexcgqcf.jsgcfvvcgnbcbdgbeofvckf gp
gnfgc fo’gchbcfyqs.b.,chugcrsvvcpbbwcqgnbecbdivfofgsqopcqkcgnbj,crsvv
sogeq.u bcpqjbcpib sfv,cuobdib gb.cgueo,cgnfgcrsvvcasybcgnbjcfoqgnbe
psaosks fo bcfo.ciugcgnbjcsocfoqgnbecvsangtcIqeksexcjsangcrbvvceb wqo
gnfgcScpnquv.chbcpuebcgqcfoprbecpq,cfo.cpfxcScnf.cpbbocgnbjcgqcasybcfo
fsecqkcgeugn,cfo.cgnbocjfwbcpqjbcbdivfofgsqot”

“Hugcnbcrquv.cnfybcgqv.cxqucfgcqo bcgnfgcgnbcrqewjboc quv.coqgcnfybchbbo
gnbebcgrqc.fxpchbkqeb,cfo.cgnfgcgnbebkqebcxqucjupgcnfybchbbocgnbebcqo
gnbc.fxcqkcgnbcjue.becfgcbsangcq’ vq wtcFo.cpqcnbcrquv.cnfybc fuangcxqu
qybecfc.bgfsvt”

“Xbp,cgnfgcspcrnfgcnbcrfpceb wqosoacqo,cgnfgcScpnquv.coqgcnfybcgsjbcgq
ebkvb g,cfo.cpnquv.chbcsocfcnueexcgqcjfwbcgnbcjqpgcvswbvxcfoprbe,cfo.
pqcrquv.ckqeabgcgnfgcgnbcrqewjboc quv.coqgcnfybchbbocgnbebcgrqc.fxp
hbkqebt”

“Hugcnqrc quv.cxquckqeabgcsg?”

“OqgnsoacbfpsbetcSgcspcsocmupgcpu ncpguis.cgnsoapc vbybecibqivbcfebcjqpg
bfpsvxc fuangtcGnbcjqebc uoosoacfcjfocsp,cgnbcvbppcnbcpupib gpcgnfgcnb
rsvvchbc fuangcsocfcpsjivbcgnsoatcGnbcjqebc uoosoacfcjfocsp,cgnbcpsjivbe
gnbcgeficnbcjupgchbc fuangcsotcIqeksexcspcoqgcpu ncfckqqvcfpcxqu
gnsowtttt”

“Nbcspcfcwofybcgnbo,cskcgnfgcspcpq!”

Efpwqvoswqyc quv.coqgcnbvicvfuansoatcHugcfgcgnbcybexcjqjbog,cnbcrfp
pgeu wchxcgnbcpgefoabobppcqkcnspcqrockefowobpp,cfo.cgnbcbfabeobpp
rsgncrns ncnbcnf.cjf.bcgnspcbdivfofgsqo,cgnquancnbcnf.cwbigcuicfvvcgnb
ieb b.soac qoybepfgsqocrsgncavqqjxcebiuvpsqo,cqhysqupvxcrsgncfcjqgsyb,
keqjcob bppsgxt

“Scfjcabggsoacfcebvspnckqec begfsocfpib gp!”cnbcgnquangcgqcnsjpbvkt
Hugcfvjqpgcfgcgnbcpfjbcsopgfogcnbchb fjbcpu..bovxcuobfpx,cfpcgnquancfo
uobdib gb.cfo.cfvfejsoacs.bfcnf.cq  ueeb.cgqcnsjtcNspcuobfpsobppcwbigcqo
so ebfpsoatcGnbxcnf.cmupgcebf nb.cgnbcbogefo bcgqcHfwfvbxby’pt

“Aqcsocfvqob!”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqycpu..bovxtc“Scrsvvchbchf wc.seb gvxt”

“Rnbebcfebcxqucaqsoa?cRnx,crbcfebcmupgcnbebt”

“Sc fo’gcnbvicsgttttcScrsvvc qjbcsocnfvkcfocnquetcGbvvcgnbjt”

“Pfxcrnfgcxqucvswb,cScrsvvc qjbcrsgncxqut”

“Xqu,cgqq,crfogcgqcgqeguebcjb!”cnbcp ebfjb.,crsgncpu nchsggbe
seesgfgsqo,cpu nc.bpifsecsocnspcbxbpcgnfgcEfzujsnso’pcnfo.pc.eqiib.t
Nbcpgqq.ckqecpqjbcgsjbcqocgnbcpgbip,cvqqwsoacavqqjsvxcfgcEfpwqvoswqy
pges.soacefis.vxcfrfxcsocgnbc.seb gsqocqkcnspcvq.asoatcFgcvfpg,caesggsoa
nspcgbbgncfo.c vbo nsoacnspckspg,cnbcprqebcnbcrquv.cplubbzbcIqeksex
vswbcfcvbjqocgnfgcybexc.fx,cfo.crbogcuicgnbcpgfsepcgqcebfppuebcIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyof,crnqcrfpchxcoqrcfvfejb.cfgcgnbsecvqoacfhpbo bt

RnbocEfpwqvoswqycaqgcnqjb,cnspcnfsecrfpcpqfwb.crsgncprbfgcfo.cnbcrfp
hebfgnsoacnbfysvxtcNbcrbogcefis.vxcuicgnbcpgfsep,crfvwb.csogqcnsp
uovq wb.ceqqjcfo.cfgcqo bckfpgbob.cgnbcvfg ntcGnbocsocpbopbvbppcgbeeqe
nbceupnb.cgqcgnbc qeobe,cgqcgnfgcnqvbcuo.becgnbcifibecrnbebcnbcnf.ciug
gnbcgnsoap;ciugcnspcnfo.cso,cfo.ckqecpqjbcjsougbpckbvgc febkuvvxcsocgnb
nqvb,csocbybexc ef wcfo.ckqv.cqkcgnbcifibetcKso.soacoqgnsoa,cnbcaqgcui
fo.c.ebrcfc.bbichebfgntcFpcnbcrfpcebf nsoacgnbcpgbipcqkcHfwfvbxby’p,cnb
pu..bovxckfo sb.cgnfgcpqjbgnsoa,cfc nfso,cfcpgu.cqecbybocfchsgcqkcifibe
socrns ncgnbxcnf.chbbocrefiib.crsgncgnbcqv.crqjfo’pcnfo.resgsoacqocsg,
jsangcpqjbnqrcnfybcpvsiib.cqugcfo.chbbocvqpgcsocpqjbc ef w,cfo.cgnbo
jsangcpu..bovxcgueocuicfpcuobdib gb.,c qo vupsybcbys.bo bcfafsopgcnsjt

Nbcpgqq.cfpcgnquancvqpgcsocgnquang,cfo.cfcpgefoab,cnujsvsfgb.,cnfvk
pbopbvbppcpjsvbcpgefxb.cqocnspcvsiptcNbcgqqwcnspc ficfgcvfpgcfo.crbog
lusbgvxcqugcqkcgnbceqqjtcNspcs.bfpcrbebcfvvcgfoavb.tcNbcrbogc.ebfjsvx
gnequancgnbcafgbrfxt

“Nbebcnbcspcnsjpbvk,”cpnqugb.cfcvqu.cyqs bt

Nbcefspb.cnspcnbf.t

Gnbciqegbecrfpcpgfo.soacfgcgnbc.qqecqkcnspcvsggvbceqqjcfo.crfpciqsogsoa
nsjcqugcgqcfcpnqegcjfocrnqcvqqwb.cvswbcfocfegspfo,crbfesoacfcvqoac qfg
fo.cfcrfspg qfg,cfo.cvqqwsoacfgcfc.spgfo bcebjfewfhvxcvswbcfcrqjfotcNb
pgqqib.,cfo.cnspcnbf.csocfcaebfpxc ficnuoackqerfe.tcKeqjcnspcresowvb.
kvfhhxckf bcnbcvqqwb.cqybeckskgx;cnspcvsggvbcbxbpcrbebcvqpgcsockfgcfo.
gnbxcvqqwb.cqugcaesjvx,cpgbeovxcfo.c.sp qogbogb.vxt

“Rnfgcspcsg?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.,caqsoacuicgqcgnbciqegbet

Gnbcjfocpgqvbcfcvqqwcfgcnsjckeqjcuo.becnspcheqrpcfo.cnbcvqqwb.cfgcnsj
fggbogsybvx,c.bvshbefgbvx;cgnbocnbcgueob.cpvqrvxcfo.crbogcqugcqkcgnb
afgbcsogqcgnbcpgebbgcrsgnqugcpfxsoacfcrqe.t

“Rnfgcspcsg?”c esb.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“Rnx,cnbcgnbebcrfpcfpwsoacrnbgnbecfcpgu.bogcvsyb.cnbeb,cjbogsqob.cxque
ofjbcfo.crnqjcxqucvq.ab.crsgntcScpfrcxquc qjsoacfo.ciqsogb.cxqucqugcfo.
nbcrbogcfrfxtcSg’pckuooxt”

Gnbciqegbecgqqcpbbjb.cefgnbeciuzzvb.,chugcoqgcju ncpq,cfo.cfkgbe
rqo.besoackqecfcjqjbogcnbcgueob.cfo.crbogchf wcgqcnspceqqjt

Efpwqvoswqycefocfkgbecgnbcpgefoabe,cfo.cfgcqo bc fuangcpsangcqk
nsjcrfvwsoacfvqoacgnbcqgnbecps.bcqkcgnbcpgebbgcrsgncgnbcpfjbcbybo,
.bvshbefgbcpgbicrsgncnspcbxbpcksdb.cqocgnbcaequo.,cfpcgnquancso
jb.sgfgsqotcNbcpqqocqybegqqwcnsj,chugckqecpqjbcgsjbcrfvwb.chbnso.cnsjt
Fgcvfpg,cjqysoacqocgqcfcvbybvcrsgncnsj,cnbcvqqwb.cfgcnspckf btcGnbcjfo
oqgs b.cnsjcfgcqo b,cvqqwb.cfgcnsjclus wvx,chugc.eqiib.cnspcbxbpcfafso;
fo.cpqcgnbxcrfvwb.ckqecfcjsougbcps.bchxcps.bcrsgnqugcuggbesoacfcrqe.t

“Xqucrbebcsolusesoackqecjbtttcqkcgnbciqegbe?”cEfpwqvoswqycpfs.cfgcvfpg,
hugcsocfc uesqupvxclusbgcyqs bt

Gnbcjfocjf.bcoqcfoprbe;cnbc.s.o’gcbybocvqqwcfgcnsjtcFafsocgnbxcrbebchqgn
psvbogt

“Rnxc.qcxqutttc qjbcfo.cfpwckqecjbtttcfo.cpfxcoqgnsoattttcRnfg’pcgnb
jbfosoacqkcsg?”

Efpwqvoswqy’pcyqs bcheqwbcfo.cnbcpbbjb.cuofhvbcgqcfegs uvfgbcgnbcrqe.p
 vbfevxt

Gnbcjfocefspb.cnspcbxbpcgnspcgsjbcfo.cgueob.cfcavqqjxcpsospgbecvqqwcfg
Efpwqvoswqyt

“Jue.bebe!”cnbcpfs.cpu..bovxcsocfclusbgchugc vbfecfo.c.spgso gcyqs bt

Efpwqvoswqycrbogcqocrfvwsoachbps.bcnsjtcNspcvbapckbvgcpu..bovxcrbfw,cf
 qv.cpnsybecefoc.qrocnspcpisob,cfo.cnspcnbfegcpbbjb.cgqcpgfo.cpgsvvckqe
fcjqjbog,cgnbocpu..bovxchbafocgneqhhsoacfpcgnquancsgcrbebcpbgckebbtcPq
gnbxcrfvwb.ckqecfhqugcfcnuo.eb.cif bp,cps.bchxcps.bcsocpsvbo bt

Gnbcjfoc.s.coqgcvqqwcfgcnsjt

“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfotttcrnfgcspttttcRnqcspcfcjue.bebe?”cjuggbeb.
Efpwqvoswqycnfe.vxcfu.shvxt

“_Xqu_cfebcfcjue.bebe,”cgnbcjfocfoprbeb.cpgsvvcjqebcfegs uvfgbvxcfo.
bjinfgs fvvx,crsgncfcpjsvbcqkcgesujinfogcnfgeb.,cfo.cfafsocnbcvqqwb.
pgefsangcsogqcEfpwqvoswqy’pcifvbckf bcfo.cpges wbocbxbpt

Gnbxcnf.cmupgcebf nb.cgnbc eqpp-eqf.ptcGnbcjfocgueob.cgqcgnbcvbkg
rsgnqugcvqqwsoachbnso.cnsjtcEfpwqvoswqycebjfsob.cpgfo.soa,cafzsoacfkgbe
nsjtcNbcpfrcnsjcgueocequo.ckskgxcif bpcfrfxcfo.cvqqwchf wcfgcnsjcpgsvv
pgfo.soacgnbebtcEfpwqvoswqyc quv.coqgcpbbc vbfevx,chugcnbckfo sb.cgnfg
nbcrfpcfafsocpjsvsoacgnbcpfjbcpjsvbcqkc qv.cnfgeb.cfo.cgesujint

Rsgncpvqrckfvgbesoacpgbip,crsgncpnfwsoacwobbp,cEfpwqvoswqycjf.bcnspcrfx
hf wcgqcnspcvsggvbcafeebg,ckbbvsoac nsvvb.cfvvcqybetcNbcgqqwcqkkcnspc fi
fo.ciugcsgcqocgnbcgfhvb,cfo.ckqecgbocjsougbpcnbcpgqq.crsgnqugcjqysoat
Gnbocnbcpfowcbdnfupgb.cqocgnbcpqkfcfo.crsgncfcrbfwcjqfocqkcifsocnb
pgebg nb.cnsjpbvkcqocsgtcPqcnbcvfxckqecnfvkcfocnquet

NbcgnquangcqkcoqgnsoatcPqjbcgnquangpcqeckefajbogpcqkcgnquangp,cpqjb
sjfabpcrsgnqugcqe.becqec qnbebo bckvqfgb.chbkqebcnspcjso.--kf bpcqk
ibqivbcnbcnf.cpbbocsocnspc nsv.nqq.cqecjbgcpqjbrnbebcqo b,crnqjcnbcrquv.
obybecnfybceb fvvb.,cgnbchbvkexcqkcgnbc nue ncfgcYt,cgnbchsvvsfe.cgfhvb
socfcebpgfuefogcfo.cpqjbcqkks bepcivfxsoachsvvsfe.p,cgnbcpjbvvcqkc safep
socpqjbcuo.beaequo.cgqhf  qcpnqi,cfcgfybeoceqqj,cfchf wcpgfse fpbclusgb
.few,cfvvcpvqiixcrsgnc.segxcrfgbecfo.cpgebrocrsgncbaa-pnbvvp,cfo.cgnb
Puo.fxchbvvpckvqfgsoacsockeqjcpqjbrnbebttttcGnbcsjfabpckqvvqrb.cqob
foqgnbe,crnsevsoacvswbcfcnuees fobtcPqjbcqkcgnbjcnbcvswb.cfo.cgesb.
gqc vug ncfg,chugcgnbxckf.b.cfo.cfvvcgnbcrnsvbcgnbebcrfpcfocqiiebppsqo
rsgnsocnsj,chugcsgcrfpcoqgcqybernbvjsoa,cpqjbgsjbpcsgcrfpcbybo
ivbfpfogttttcGnbcpvsangcpnsybesoacpgsvvcibepspgb.,chugcgnfgcgqq
rfpcfocfvjqpgcivbfpfogcpbopfgsqot

Nbcnbfe.cgnbcnueesb.ckqqgpgbipcqkcEfzujsnso;cnbc vqpb.cnspcbxbpcfo.
iebgbo.b.cgqchbcfpvbbitcEfzujsnsocqibob.cgnbc.qqecfo.cpgqq.ckqecpqjb
gsjbcsocgnbc.qqerfxcfpcgnquancnbpsgfgsoa,cgnbocnbcpgbiib.cpqkgvxcsogq
gnbceqqjcfo.crbogc fugsqupvxcgqcgnbcpqkftcEfpwqvoswqycnbfe.cOfpgfpxf’p
rnspibe:

“.qo’gc.spguehcnsj!cVbgcnsjcpvbbitcNbc focnfybcnspc.soobecvfgbet”

“Lusgbcpq,”cfoprbeb.cEfzujsnsotcHqgncrsgn.ebrc febkuvvxcfo.c vqpb.cgnb
.qqetcFoqgnbecnfvk-nquecifppb.tcEfpwqvoswqycqibob.cnspcbxbp,cgueob.cqo
nspchf wcfafso,c vfpisoacnspcnfo.pchbnso.cnspcnbf.t

“Rnqcspcnb?cRnqcspcgnfgcjfocrnqcpiefoacqugcqkcgnbcbfegn?cRnbebcrfpcnb,
rnfgc.s.cnbcpbb?cNbcnfpcpbbocsgcfvv,cgnfg’pc vbfetcRnbebcrfpcnbcgnbo?
Fo.ckeqjcrnbebc.s.cnbcpbb?cRnxcnfpcnbcqovxcoqrcpieuoacqugcqkcgnbcbfegn?
Fo.cnqrc quv.cnbcpbb?cSpcsgciqppshvb?cNjttt”c qogsoub.cEfpwqvoswqy,
gueosoac qv.cfo.cpnsybesoa,c“fo.cgnbcmbrbvc fpbcOswqvfxckquo.chbnso.cgnb
.qqe--rfpcgnfgciqppshvb?cFc vub?cXqucjsppcfocsoksosgbpsjfvcvsobcfo.cxqu
 fochusv.csgcsogqcfcixefjs.cqkcbys.bo b!cFckvxckvbrchxcfo.cpfrcsg!cSpcsg
iqppshvb?”cNbckbvgcrsgncpu..bocvqfgnsoacnqrcrbfw,cnqrcinxps fvvxcrbfwcnb
nf.chb qjbtc“Scquangcgqcnfybcwoqrocsg,”cnbcgnquangcrsgncfchsggbecpjsvbt
“Fo.cnqrc.feb.cS,cwoqrsoacjxpbvk,cwoqrsoacnqrcScpnquv.chb,cgfwbcuicfo
fdbcfo.cpnb.chvqq.!cScquangcgqcnfybcwoqrochbkqebnfo.ttttcFn,chugcSc.s.
woqr!”cnbcrnspibeb.csoc.bpifsetcFgcgsjbpcnbc fjbcgqcfcpgfo.pgsvvcfgcpqjb
gnquangt

“Oq,cgnqpbcjbocfebcoqgcjf.bcpqtcGnbcebfvc_Jfpgbe_cgqcrnqjcfvvcsp
ibejsggb.cpgqejpcGquvqo,cjfwbpcfcjfppf ebcsocIfesp,c_kqeabgp_cfocfejxcso
Baxig,c_rfpgbp_cnfvkcfcjsvvsqocjbocsocgnbcJqp qrcbdib.sgsqocfo.cabgpcqkk
rsgncfcmbpgcfgcYsvoftcFo.cfvgfepcfebcpbgcuicgqcnsjcfkgbecnspc.bfgn,cfo.
pqc_fvv_cspcibejsggb.tcOq,cpu ncibqivb,csgcpbbjp,cfebcoqgcqkckvbpnchug
qkcheqozb!”

Qobcpu..bocseebvbyfogcs.bfcfvjqpgcjf.bcnsjcvfuantcOfiqvbqo,cgnb
ixefjs.p,cRfgbevqq,cfo.cfcrebg nb.cpwsooxcqv.crqjfo,cfcifroheqwbecrsgn
fceb.cgeuowcuo.becnbechb.--sg’pcfcos bcnfpnckqecIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncgq
.sabpg!cNqrc focgnbxc.sabpgcsg!cSg’pcgqqcsofegspgs tc“FcOfiqvbqoc ebbi
uo.becfocqv.crqjfo’pchb.!cUan,cnqrcvqfgnpqjb!”

FgcjqjbogpcnbckbvgcnbcrfpcefysoatcNbcpfowcsogqcfcpgfgbcqkckbybespn
bd sgbjbogtc“Gnbcqv.crqjfocspcqkcoqc qopblubo b,”cnbcgnquang,cnqgvxcfo.
so qnbebogvxtc“Gnbcqv.crqjfocrfpcfcjspgfwbcibenfip,chugcpnbcspcoqg
rnfgcjfggbep!cGnbcqv.crqjfocrfpcqovxcfocsvvobppttttcScrfpcsocfcnueexcgq
qybepgbittttcSc.s.o’gcwsvvcfcnujfochbsoa,chugcfcieso sivb!cScwsvvb.cgnb
ieso sivb,chugcSc.s.o’gcqybepgbi,cScpgqiib.cqocgnspcps.bttttcScrfp
qovxc fifhvbcqkcwsvvsoatcFo.csgcpbbjpcScrfpo’gcbyboc fifhvbcqkcgnfgttt
Ieso sivb?cRnxcrfpcgnfgckqqvcEfzujsnsocfhupsoacgnbcpq sfvspgp?cGnbxcfeb
so.upgesqup,c qjjbe sfvcibqivb;c‘gnbcnfiisobppcqkcfvv’cspcgnbsec fpbt
Oq,cvskbcspcqovxcasybocgqcjbcqo bcfo.cScpnfvvcobybecnfybcsgcfafso;cS
.qo’gcrfogcgqcrfsgckqec‘gnbcnfiisobppcqkcfvvt’cScrfogcgqcvsybcjxpbvk,
qecbvpbchbggbecoqgcvsybcfgcfvvtcScpsjivxc quv.o’gcifppchxcjxcjqgnbe
pgfeysoa,cwbbisoacjxcequhvbcsocjxciq wbgcrnsvbcScrfsgb.ckqecgnb
‘nfiisobppcqkcfvvt’cScfjciuggsoacjxcvsggvbches wcsogqcgnbcnfiisobppcqk
fvvcfo.cpqcjxcnbfegcspcfgcibf btcNf-nf!cRnxcnfybcxqucvbgcjbcpvsi?cScqovx
vsybcqo b,cScgqqcrfogttttcB n,cScfjcfocæpgnbgs cvqupbcfo.coqgnsoa
jqeb,”cnbcf..b.cpu..bovx,cvfuansoacvswbcfcjf.jfotc“Xbp,cScfjc begfsovxcf
vqupb,”cnbcrbogcqo,c vug nsoacfgcgnbcs.bf,cavqfgsoacqybecsgcfo.civfxsoa
rsgncsgcrsgncyso.s gsybcivbfpuebtc“Socgnbcksepgcivf b,chb fupbcSc fo
ebfpqocgnfgcScfjcqob,cfo.cpb qo.vx,chb fupbckqecfcjqogncifpgcScnfybchbbo
gequhvsoachbobyqvbogcIeqys.bo b,c fvvsoacsgcgqcrsgobppcgnfgcoqgckqe
jxcqrockvbpnvxcvupgpc.s.cScuo.begfwbcsg,chugcrsgncfcaefo.cfo.coqhvb
qhmb g--nf-nf!cGnse.vx,chb fupbcScfsjb.cfgc feexsoacsgcqugcfpcmupgvxcfp
iqppshvb,crbsansoa,cjbfpuesoacfo.c fv uvfgsoatcQkcfvvcgnbcvs bcScis wb.
qugcgnbcjqpgcupbvbppcqobcfo.cieqiqpb.cgqcgfwbckeqjcnbecqovxcfpcju ncfpcS
obb.b.ckqecgnbcksepgcpgbi,coqcjqebcoqecvbppc(pqcgnbcebpgcrquv.cnfybcaqob
gqcfcjqofpgbex,cf  qe.soacgqcnbecrsvv,cnf-nf!)tcFo.crnfgcpnqrpcgnfgcS
fjcuggbevxcfcvqupb,”cnbcf..b.,caeso.soacnspcgbbgn,c“spcgnfgcScfj
ibenfipcysvbecfo.cjqebcvqfgnpqjbcgnfocgnbcvqupbcScwsvvb.,cfo.c_Sckbvg
hbkqebnfo._cgnfgcScpnquv.cgbvvcjxpbvkcpqc_fkgbe_cwsvvsoacnbetc fo
foxgnsoachbc qjifeb.crsgncgnbcnqeeqecqkcgnfg?cGnbcyuvafesgx!cGnb
fhmb gobpp!cScuo.bepgfo.cgnbc‘ieqinbg’crsgncnspcpfheb,cqocnspcpgbb.:
Fvvfnc qjjfo.pcfo.c‘gebjhvsoa’c ebfgsqocjupgcqhbx!cGnbc‘ieqinbg’csp
esang,cnbcspcesangcrnbocnbcpbgpcfchfggbexcf eqppcgnbcpgebbgcfo.chvqrpcui
gnbcsooq bogcfo.cgnbcausvgxcrsgnqugc.bsaosoacgqcbdivfso!cSg’pckqecxqucgq
qhbx,cgebjhvsoac ebfgsqo,cfo.coqgc_gqcnfybc.bpsebp_,ckqecgnfg’pcoqgckqe
xqu!tttcScpnfvvcobybe,cobybeckqeasybcgnbcqv.crqjfo!”

Nspcnfsecrfpcpqfwb.crsgncprbfg,cnspclusybesoacvsipcrbebcife nb.,cnsp
bxbpcrbebcksdb.cqocgnbc bsvsoat

“Jqgnbe,cpspgbe--nqrcScvqyb.cgnbj!cRnxc.qcScnfgbcgnbjcoqr?cXbp,cScnfgb
gnbj,cSckbbvcfcinxps fvcnfgeb.ckqecgnbj,cSc fo’gchbfecgnbjcobfecjbtttt
Scrbogcuicgqcjxcjqgnbecfo.cwsppb.cnbe,cScebjbjhbettttcGqcbjhef bcnbe
fo.cgnsowcskcpnbcqovxcwobrtttcpnfvvcScgbvvcnbecgnbo?cGnfg’pcmupgcrnfg
Scjsangc.qttttc_Pnb_cjupgchbcgnbcpfjbcfpcScfj,”cnbcf..b.,cpgefsosoa
nsjpbvkcgqcgnsow,cfpcsgcrbebcpgeuaavsoacrsgnc.bvsesujtc“Fn,cnqrcScnfgb
gnbcqv.crqjfocoqr!cSckbbvcScpnquv.cwsvvcnbecfafsocskcpnbc fjbcgqcvskb!
IqqecVszfybgf!cRnxc.s.cpnbc qjbcso?tttcSg’pcpgefoabcgnquan,crnxcspcsg
Scp fe bvxcbybecgnsowcqkcnbe,cfpcgnquancScnf.o’gcwsvvb.cnbe?cVszfybgf!
Pqosf!cIqqecabogvbcgnsoap,crsgncabogvbcbxbpttttc.bfecrqjbo!cRnxc.qo’g
gnbxcrbbi?cRnxc.qo’gcgnbxcjqfo?cGnbxcasybcuicbybexgnsoatttcgnbsecbxbp
febcpqkgcfo.cabogvbttttcPqosf,cPqosf!cAbogvbcPqosf!”

Nbcvqpgc qop squpobpp;csgcpbbjb.cpgefoabcgqcnsjcgnfgcnbc.s.o’gcebjbjhbe
nqrcnbcaqgcsogqcgnbcpgebbgtcSgcrfpcvfgbcbybosoatcGnbcgrsvsangcnf.ckfvvbo
fo.cgnbckuvvcjqqocrfpcpnsosoacjqebcfo.cjqebchesangvx;chugcgnbebcrfpcf
ib uvsfechebfgnvbppobppcsocgnbcfsetcGnbebcrbebc eqr.pcqkcibqivbcsocgnb
pgebbg;crqewjbocfo.chupsobppcibqivbcrbebcjfwsoacgnbsecrfxcnqjb;cqgnbe
ibqivbcnf.c qjbcqugckqecfcrfvw;cgnbebcrfpcfcpjbvvcqkcjqegfe,c.upgcfo.
pgfaofogcrfgbetcEfpwqvoswqycrfvwb.cfvqoa,cjqueokuvcfo.cfodsqup;cnbcrfp
.spgso gvxcfrfebcqkcnfysoac qjbcqugcrsgncfciueiqpb,cqkcnfysoacgqc.q
pqjbgnsoacsocfcnueex,chugcrnfgcsgcrfpcnbcnf.ckqeaqggbotcPu..bovxcnb
pgqq.cpgsvvcfo.cpfrcfcjfocpgfo.soacqocgnbcqgnbecps.bcqkcgnbcpgebbg,
hb wqosoacgqcnsjtcNbc eqppb.cqybecgqcnsj,chugcfgcqo bcgnbcjfocgueob.cfo.
rfvwb.cfrfxcrsgncnspcnbf.cnfoasoa,cfpcgnquancnbcnf.cjf.bcoqcpsaocgq
nsjtc“Pgfx,c.s.cnbcebfvvxchb wqo?”cEfpwqvoswqycrqo.beb.,chugcnbcgesb.
gqcqybegfwbcnsjtcRnbocnbcrfpcrsgnsocgbocif bpcnbceb qaospb.cnsjcfo.
rfpckesangbob.;csgcrfpcgnbcpfjbcjfocrsgncpgqqisoacpnquv.bepcsocgnbcvqoa
 qfgtcEfpwqvoswqyckqvvqrb.cnsjcfgcfc.spgfo b;cnspcnbfegcrfpchbfgsoa;
gnbxcrbogc.qrocfcgueosoa;cgnbcjfocpgsvvc.s.coqgcvqqwcequo.tc“.qbpcnb
woqrcScfjckqvvqrsoacnsj?”cgnquangcEfpwqvoswqytcGnbcjfocrbogcsogqcgnb
afgbrfxcqkcfchsacnqupbtcEfpwqvoswqycnfpgbob.cgqcgnbcafgbcfo.cvqqwb.cso
gqcpbbcrnbgnbecnbcrquv.cvqqwcequo.cfo.cpsaocgqcnsjtcSocgnbc queg-xfe.
gnbcjfoc.s.cgueocequo.cfo.cfafsocpbbjb.cgqchb wqocnsjtcEfpwqvoswqycfg
qo bckqvvqrb.cnsjcsogqcgnbcxfe.,chugcgnbcjfocrfpcaqobtcNbcjupgcnfyb
aqobcuicgnbcksepgcpgfse fpbtcEfpwqvoswqyceupnb.cfkgbecnsjtcNbcnbfe.
pvqrcjbfpueb.cpgbipcgrqckvsangpcfhqybtcGnbcpgfse fpbcpbbjb.cpgefoabvx
kfjsvsfetcNbcebf nb.cgnbcrso.qrcqocgnbcksepgckvqqe;cgnbcjqqocpnqob
gnequancgnbcifobpcrsgncfcjbvfo nqvxcfo.cjxpgbesqupcvsang;cgnbocnb
ebf nb.cgnbcpb qo.ckvqqetcHfn!cgnspcspcgnbckvfgcrnbebcgnbcifsogbepcrbeb
fgcrqewtttchugcnqrcrfpcsgcnbc.s.coqgceb qaospbcsgcfgcqo b?cGnbcpgbip
qkcgnbcjfocfhqybcnf.c.sb.cfrfxtc“Pqcnbcjupgcnfybcpgqiib.cqecns..bo
pqjbrnbebt”cNbcebf nb.cgnbcgnse.cpgqebx,cpnquv.cnbcaqcqo?cGnbebcrfpcf
pgsvvobppcgnfgcrfpc.ebf.kuvttttcHugcnbcrbogcqotcGnbcpquo.cqkcnspcqro
kqqgpgbipcp feb.cfo.ckesangbob.cnsjtcNqrc.fewcsgcrfp!cGnbcjfocjupgchb
ns.soacsocpqjbc qeobecnbebtcFn!cgnbckvfgcrfpcpgfo.soacrs.bcqibo,cnb
nbpsgfgb.cfo.crbogcsotcSgcrfpcybexc.fewcfo.cbjigxcsocgnbcifppfab,cfp
gnquancbybexgnsoacnf.chbbocebjqyb.;cnbc ebigcqocgsigqbcsogqcgnbcifevque
rns ncrfpckvqq.b.crsgncjqqovsangtcBybexgnsoacgnbebcrfpcfpchbkqeb,cgnb
 nfsep,cgnbcvqqwsoa-avfpp,cgnbcxbvvqrcpqkfcfo.cgnbcis guebpcsocgnb
kefjbptcFcnuab,cequo.,c qiibe-eb.cjqqocvqqwb.csocfgcgnbcrso.qrpt
“Sg’pcgnbcjqqocgnfgcjfwbpcsgcpqcpgsvv,crbfysoacpqjbcjxpgbex,”cgnquang
EfpwqvoswqytcNbcpgqq.cfo.crfsgb.,crfsgb.cfcvqoacrnsvb,cfo.cgnbcjqeb
psvbogcgnbcjqqovsang,cgnbcjqebcysqvbogvxcnspcnbfegchbfg,cgsvvcsgcrfp
ifsokuvtcFo.cpgsvvcgnbcpfjbcnupntcPu..bovxcnbcnbfe.cfcjqjbogfexcpnfei
 ef wcvswbcgnbcpofiisoacqkcfcpivsogbecfo.cfvvcrfpcpgsvvcfafsotcFckvx
kvbrcuicpu..bovxcfo.cpgeu wcgnbcrso.qrcifobcrsgncfcivfsogsybchuzztcFg
gnfgcjqjbogcnbcoqgs b.csocgnbc qeobechbgrbbocgnbcrso.qrcfo.cgnbcvsggvb
 uihqfe.cpqjbgnsoacvswbcfc vqfwcnfoasoacqocgnbcrfvvtc“Rnxcspcgnfgc vqfw
nbeb?”cnbcgnquang,c“sgcrfpo’gcgnbebchbkqebtttt”cNbcrbogcuicgqcsgclusbgvx
fo.ckbvgcgnfgcgnbebcrfpcpqjbqobcns.soachbnso.csgtcNbc fugsqupvxcjqyb.
gnbc vqfwcfo.cpfr,cpsggsoacqocfc nfsecsocgnbc qeobe,cgnbcqv.crqjfochbog
.quhvbcpqcgnfgcnbc quv.o’gcpbbcnbeckf b;chugcsgcrfpcpnbtcNbcpgqq.cqybe
nbetc“Pnbcspcfkefs.,”cnbcgnquangtcNbcpgbfvgnsvxcgqqwcgnbcfdbckeqjcgnb
oqqpbcfo.cpgeu wcnbecqobchvqr,cgnbocfoqgnbecqocgnbcpwuvvtcHugcpgefoab
gqcpfxcpnbc.s.coqgcpgse,cfpcgnquancpnbcrbebcjf.bcqkcrqq.tcNbcrfp
kesangbob.,chbogc.qrocobfebecfo.cgesb.cgqcvqqwcfgcnbe;chugcpnb,cgqq,
hbogcnbecnbf.cvqrbetcNbchbogcesangc.qrocgqcgnbcaequo.cfo.cibbib.cui
sogqcnbeckf bckeqjchbvqr,cnbcibbib.cfo.cgueob.c qv.crsgncnqeeqe:cgnbcqv.
rqjfocrfpcpsggsoacfo.cvfuansoa,cpnfwsoacrsgncoqspbvbppcvfuangbe,c.qsoa
nbecugjqpgcgnfgcnbcpnquv.coqgcnbfecsgtcPu..bovxcnbckfo sb.cgnfgcgnbc.qqe
keqjcgnbchb.eqqjcrfpcqibob.cfcvsggvbcfo.cgnfgcgnbebcrfpcvfuangbecfo.
rnspibesoacrsgnsotcNbcrfpcqybe qjbcrsgnckebozxcfo.cnbchbafocnsggsoacgnb
qv.crqjfocqocgnbcnbf.crsgncfvvcnspckqe b,chugcfgcbybexchvqrcqkcgnbcfdb
gnbcvfuangbecfo.crnspibesoackeqjcgnbchb.eqqjcaebrcvqu.becfo.cgnbcqv.
rqjfocrfpcpsjivxcpnfwsoacrsgncjsegntcNbcrfpceupnsoacfrfx,chugcgnb
ifppfabcrfpckuvvcqkcibqivb,cgnbc.qqepcqkcgnbckvfgpcpgqq.cqibocfo.cqocgnb
vfo.soa,cqocgnbcpgfsepcfo.cbybexrnbebchbvqrcgnbebcrbebcibqivb,ceqrpcqk
nbf.p,cfvvcvqqwsoa,chugcnu..vb.cgqabgnbecsocpsvbo bcfo.cbdib gfgsqot
Pqjbgnsoacaesiib.cnspcnbfeg,cnspcvbapcrbebceqqgb.cgqcgnbcpiqg,cgnbx
rquv.coqgcjqybttttcNbcgesb.cgqcp ebfjcfo.crqwbcuit

Nbc.ebrcfc.bbichebfgn--hugcnspc.ebfjcpbbjb.cpgefoabvxcgqcibepspg:
nspc.qqecrfpckvuoacqibocfo.cfcjfocrnqjcnbcnf.cobybecpbbocpgqq.csocgnb
.qqerfxcrfg nsoacnsjcsogbogvxt

Efpwqvoswqycnf.cnfe.vxcqibob.cnspcbxbpcfo.cnbcsopgfogvxc vqpb.cgnbj
fafsotcNbcvfxcqocnspchf wcrsgnqugcpgseesoat

“Spcsgcpgsvvcfc.ebfj?”cnbcrqo.beb.cfo.cfafsocefspb.cnspcbxbvs.pcnfe.vx
ibe bigshvx;cgnbcpgefoabecrfpcpgfo.soacsocgnbcpfjbcivf b,cpgsvvcrfg nsoa
nsjt

Nbcpgbiib.c fugsqupvxcsogqcgnbceqqj,c febkuvvxc vqpsoacgnbc.qqecfkgbe
nsj,crbogcuicgqcgnbcgfhvb,cifupb.cfcjqjbog,cpgsvvcwbbisoacnspcbxbpcqo
Efpwqvoswqy,cfo.coqspbvbppvxcpbfgb.cnsjpbvkcqocgnbc nfsechxcgnbcpqkf;cnb
iugcnspcnfgcqocgnbckvqqechbps.bcnsjcfo.cvbfob.cnspcnfo.pcqocnspc fob
fo.cnspc nsocqocnspcnfo.ptcSgcrfpcbys.bogcgnfgcnbcrfpciebifeb.cgqcrfsg
so.bksosgbvxtcFpckfecfpcEfpwqvoswqyc quv.cjfwbcqugckeqjcnspcpgqvbo
avfo bp,cnbcrfpcfcjfocoqcvqoabecxquoa,cpgqug,crsgncfckuvv,ckfse,cfvjqpg
rnsgspnchbfe.t

Gbocjsougbpcifppb.tcSgcrfpcpgsvvcvsang,chugchbasoosoacgqcabgc.upwtcGnbeb
rfpc qjivbgbcpgsvvobppcsocgnbceqqjtcOqgcfcpquo.c fjbckeqjcgnbcpgfsept
Qovxcfchsackvxchuzzb.cfo.ckvuggbeb.cfafsopgcgnbcrso.qrcifobtcSgcrfp
uohbfefhvbcfgcvfpgtcEfpwqvoswqycpu..bovxcaqgcuicfo.cpfgcqocgnbcpqkft

“ qjb,cgbvvcjbcrnfgcxqucrfogt”

“Scwobrcxqucrbebcoqgcfpvbbi,chugcqovxciebgbo.soa,”cgnbcpgefoabecfoprbeb.
q..vx,cvfuansoac fvjvxtc“Fewf.xcSyfoqysg ncPys.esafïvqy,cfvvqrcjbcgq
sogeq.u bcjxpbvktttt”




IFEGcSY



 NFIGBEcS

“ focgnspchbcpgsvvcfc.ebfj?”cEfpwqvoswqycgnquangcqo bcjqebt

Nbcvqqwb.c febkuvvxcfo.cpupis squpvxcfgcgnbcuobdib gb.cyspsgqet

“Pys.esafïvqy!cRnfgcoqopbopb!cSgc fo’gchb!”cnbcpfs.cfgcvfpgcfvqu.cso
hbrsv.bejbogt

Nspcyspsgqec.s.coqgcpbbjcfgcfvvcpueiespb.cfgcgnspcbd vfjfgsqot

“S’ybc qjbcgqcxquckqecgrqcebfpqoptcSocgnbcksepgcivf b,cScrfogb.cgqcjfwb
xquecibepqofvcf lufsogfo b,cfpcScnfybcfvebf.xcnbfe.cfcaebfgc.bfvcfhqug
xqucgnfgcspcsogbebpgsoacfo.ckvfggbesoa;cpb qo.vx,cSc nbespncgnbcnqib
gnfgcxqucjfxcoqgcebkupbcgqcfppspgcjbcsocfcjfggbec.seb gvxc qo beosoacgnb
rbvkfebcqkcxquecpspgbe,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoftcKqecrsgnqugcxquecpuiiqegcpnb
jsangcoqgcvbgcjbc qjbcobfecnbecoqr,ckqecpnbcspciebmu.s b.cfafsopgcjb,
hugcrsgncxquecfppspgfo bcSceb wqocqottt”

“Xquceb wqocreqoavx,”csogbeeuigb.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“Gnbxcqovxcfeesyb.cxbpgbe.fx,cjfxcScfpwcxqu?”

Efpwqvoswqycjf.bcoqcebivxt

“Sgcrfpcxbpgbe.fx,cScwoqrtcScqovxcfeesyb.cjxpbvkcgnbc.fxchbkqebtcRbvv,
vbgcjbcgbvvcxqucgnsp,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cSc.qo’gc qops.becsgcob bppfex
gqcmupgskxcjxpbvk,chugcwso.vxcgbvvcjbcrnfgcrfpcgnbebcifegs uvfevx
 esjsofvcqocjxcifegcsocfvvcgnspchupsobpp,cpibfwsoacrsgnqugciebmu.s b,
rsgnc qjjqocpbopb?”

Efpwqvoswqyc qogsoub.cgqcvqqwcfgcnsjcsocpsvbo bt

“GnfgcsocjxcqrocnqupbcScibepb ugb.cfc.bkbo bvbppcasevcfo.c‘sopuvgb.cnbe
rsgncjxcsokfjqupcieqiqpfvp’--spcgnfgcsg?c(Scfjcfogs sifgsoacxqut)cHug
xqu’ybcqovxcgqcfppujbcgnfgcS,cgqq,cfjcfcjfoc_bgcosnsvcnujfouj_tttcsocf
rqe.,cgnfgcScfjc fifhvbcqkchbsoacfggef gb.cfo.ckfvvsoacsocvqybc(rns n
.qbpcoqgc.bibo.cqocquecrsvv),cgnbocbybexgnsoac fochbcbdivfsob.csocgnb
jqpgcofguefvcjfoobetcGnbclubpgsqocsp,cfjcScfcjqopgbe,cqecfjcScjxpbvk
fcys gsj?cFo.crnfgcskcScfjcfcys gsj?cSocieqiqpsoacgqcgnbcqhmb gcqkcjx
ifppsqocgqcbvqibcrsgncjbcgqcFjbes fcqecPrsgzbevfo.,cScjfxcnfybc nbespnb.
gnbc.bbibpgcebpib gckqecnbecfo.cjfxcnfybcgnquangcgnfgcScrfpcieqjqgsoa
quecjugufvcnfiisobpp!cEbfpqocspcgnbcpvfybcqkcifppsqo,cxqucwoqr;crnx,
ieqhfhvx,cScrfpc.qsoacjqebcnfejcgqcjxpbvkcgnfocfoxqob!”

“Hugcgnfg’pcoqgcgnbciqsog,”cEfpwqvoswqycsogbeeuigb.crsgnc.spaupgtc“Sg’p
psjivxcgnfgcrnbgnbecxqucfebcesangcqecreqoa,crbc.spvswbcxqutcRbc.qo’g
rfogcgqcnfybcfoxgnsoacgqc.qcrsgncxqutcRbcpnqrcxqucgnbc.qqetcAqcqug!”

Pys.esafïvqycheqwbcsogqcfcpu..bocvfuant

“Hugcxqu’ebtttchugcgnbeb’pcoqcabggsoacequo.cxqu,”cnbcpfs.,cvfuansoacso
gnbckefowbpgcrfxtc“Scnqib.cgqcabgcequo.cxqu,chugcxqucgqqwcuicgnbcesang
vsobcfgcqo b!”

“Hugcxqucfebcgexsoacgqcabgcequo.cjbcpgsvv!”

“Rnfgcqkcsg?cRnfgcqkcsg?”c esb.cPys.esafïvqy,cvfuansoacqibovxtc“Hugcgnsp
spcrnfgcgnbcKebo nc fvvc_hqoobcaubeeb_,cfo.cgnbcjqpgcsooq bogckqejcqk
.b bigsqo!tttcHugcpgsvvcxqucnfybcsogbeeuigb.cjb;cqobcrfxcqecfoqgnbe,cS
ebibfgcfafso:cgnbebcrquv.cobybecnfybchbbocfoxcuoivbfpfogobppcbd bigckqe
rnfgcnfiibob.csocgnbcafe.botcJfekfcIbgeqyofttt”

“Xqucnfybcaqgces.cqkcJfekfcIbgeqyof,cgqq,cpqcgnbxcpfx?”cEfpwqvoswqy
sogbeeuigb.ceu.bvxt

“Qn,cxqu’ybcnbfe.cgnfg,cgqq,cgnbo?cXqu’.chbcpuebcgq,cgnquanttttcHug
fpckqecxqueclubpgsqo,cScebfvvxc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcgqcpfx,cgnquancjxcqro
 qop sbo bcspclusgbcfgcebpgcqocgnfgcp qebtc.qo’gcpuiiqpbcgnfgcScfjcso
foxcfiiebnbopsqocfhqugcsgtcFvvcrfpcebauvfecfo.csocqe.be;cgnbcjb.s fv
solusexc.sfaoqpb.cfiqivbdxc.ubcgqchfgnsoacsjjb.sfgbvxcfkgbecfcnbfyx
.soobecfo.cfchqggvbcqkcrsob,cfo.cso.bb.csgc quv.cnfybcieqyb.coqgnsoa
bvpbtcHugcS’vvcgbvvcxqucrnfgcScnfybchbbocgnsowsoacgqcjxpbvkcqkcvfgb,cqo
jxcrfxcnbebcsocgnbcgefso,cbpib sfvvx:c.s.o’gcSc qogeshugbcgqcfvvcgnfgttt
 fvfjsgx,cjqefvvx,csocfcrfx,chxcseesgfgsqocqecpqjbgnsoacqkcgnb
pqegtcHugcSc fjbcgqcgnbc qo vupsqocgnfgcgnfg,cgqq,crfpclusgbcqugcqkcgnb
lubpgsqot”

Efpwqvoswqycvfuanb.t

“Scrqo.becxqucgequhvbcxquepbvkcfhqugcsg!”

“Hugcrnfgcfebcxqucvfuansoacfg?cQovxc qops.be,cScpgeu wcnbecmupgcgrs b
rsgncfcprsg n--gnbebcrbebcoqcjfewpcbybotttc.qo’gcebafe.cjbcfpcfc xos ,
ivbfpb;cScfjcibekb gvxcfrfebcnqrcfgeq squpcsgcrfpcqkcjbcfo.cfvvcgnfg;
hugcScwoqrckqec begfso,cgqq,cgnfgcJfekfcIbgeqyofcrfpcybexcvswbvxcivbfpb.
fgcjx,cpqcgqcpfx,crfejgntcGnbcpgqexcqkcxquecpspgbecnf.chbbocreuoacqugcgq
gnbcvfpgc.eqi;ckqecgnbcvfpgcgnebbc.fxpcJfekfcIbgeqyofcnf.chbbockqe b.cgq
psgcfgcnqjb;cpnbcnf.coqgnsoacgqcpnqrcnbepbvkcrsgncsocgnbcgqrotcHbps.bp,
pnbcnf.chqeb.cgnbjcpqcrsgncgnfgcvbggbec(xqucnbfe.cfhqugcnbecebf.soacgnb
vbggbe)tcFo.cfvvcqkcfcpu..bocgnqpbcgrqcprsg nbpckbvvckeqjcnbfybo!cNbe
ksepgcf gcrfpcgqcqe.becgnbc feesfabcgqchbcaqgcqugttttcOqgcgqcpibfw
qkcgnbckf gcgnfgcgnbebcfebc fpbpcrnbocrqjbocfebcybex,cybexcavf.cgqchb
sopuvgb.csocpisgbcqkcfvvcgnbsecpnqrcqkcso.saofgsqotcGnbebcfebcsopgfo bp
qkcsgcrsgncbybexqob;cnujfochbsoapcsocabobefv,cso.bb.,caebfgvxcvqybcgq
hbcsopuvgb.,cnfybcxqucoqgs b.cgnfg?cHugcsg’pcifegs uvfevxcpqcrsgncrqjbot
Qobcjsangcbybocpfxcsg’pcgnbsecqovxcfjupbjbogt”

FgcqobcgsjbcEfpwqvoswqycgnquangcqkcabggsoacuicfo.crfvwsoacqugcfo.cpq
ksospnsoacgnbcsogbeysbrtcHugcpqjbc uesqpsgxcfo.cbybocfcpqegcqkcieu.bo b
jf.bcnsjcvsoabeckqecfcjqjbogt

“Xqucfebckqo.cqkcksangsoa?”cnbcfpwb.c febvbppvxt

“Oq,coqgcybex,”cPys.esafïvqycfoprbeb.,c fvjvxtc“Fo.cJfekfcIbgeqyofcfo.
Scp fe bvxcbybeckquangtcRbcvsyb.cybexcnfejqosqupvx,cfo.cpnbcrfpcfvrfxp
ivbfpb.crsgncjbtcScqovxcupb.cgnbcrnsicgrs bcsocfvvcquecpbybocxbfepc(oqg
 quogsoacfcgnse.cq  fpsqocqkcfcybexcfjhsauqupc nfef gbe)tcGnbcksepg
gsjb,cgrqcjqognpcfkgbecquecjfeesfab,csjjb.sfgbvxcfkgbecrbcfeesyb.csocgnb
 quogex,cfo.cgnbcvfpgcgsjbcrfpcgnfgcqkcrns ncrbcfebcpibfwsoatc.s.cxqu
puiiqpbcScrfpcpu ncfcjqopgbe,cpu ncfcebf gsqofex,cpu ncfcpvfybc.esybe?
Nf,cnf!cHxcgnbcrfx,c.qcxqucebjbjhbe,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cnqrcfckbrcxbfep
faq,csocgnqpbc.fxpcqkchbobks bogciuhvs sgx,cfcoqhvbjfo,cS’ybckqeaqggbo
nspcofjb,crfpciugcgqcpnfjbcbybexrnbeb,csocfvvcgnbcifibep,ckqecnfysoa
gnefpnb.cfcAbejfocrqjfocsocgnbcefsvrfxcgefsotcXqucebjbjhbe?cSgcrfpcso
gnqpbc.fxp,cgnfgcybexcxbfecSchbvsbyb,cgnbc‘.spaef bkuvcf gsqocqkcgnb
_Fab_’cgqqwcivf bc(xqucwoqr,c‘GnbcBaxigsfocOsangp,’cgnfgciuhvs cebf.soa,
xqucebjbjhbe?cGnbc.fewcbxbp,cxqucwoqr!cFn,cgnbcaqv.boc.fxpcqkcquecxqugn,
rnbebcfebcgnbx?)tcRbvv,cfpckqecgnbcabogvbjfocrnqcgnefpnb.cgnbcAbejfo,
Sckbbvcoqcpxjifgnxcrsgncnsj,chb fupbcfkgbecfvvcrnfgcobb.cspcgnbeb
kqecpxjifgnx?cHugcScjupgcpfxcgnfgcgnbebcfebcpqjbgsjbpcpu ncieqyqwsoa
‘Abejfop’cgnfgcSc.qo’gchbvsbybcgnbebcspcfcieqaebppsybcrnqc quv.clusgb
foprbeckqecnsjpbvktcOqcqobcvqqwb.cfgcgnbcpuhmb gckeqjcgnfgciqsogcqkcysbr
gnbo,chugcgnfg’pcgnbcgeuvxcnujfobciqsogcqkcysbr,cScfppuebcxqut”

Fkgbecpfxsoacgnsp,cPys.esafïvqycheqwbcsogqcfcpu..bocvfuancfafsot
Efpwqvoswqycpfrc vbfevxcgnfgcgnspcrfpcfcjfocrsgncfcksejciueiqpbcsocnsp
jso.cfo.cfhvbcgqcwbbicsgcgqcnsjpbvkt

“Scbdib gcxqu’ybcoqgcgfvwb.cgqcfoxqobckqecpqjbc.fxp?”cnbcfpwb.t

“P fe bvxcfoxqobtcScpuiiqpbcxqucfebcrqo.besoacfgcjxchbsoacpu ncfo
f.figfhvbcjfo?”

“Oq,cScfjcqovxcrqo.besoacfgcxquechbsoacgqqcf.figfhvbcfcjfot”

“Hb fupbcScfjcoqgcqkkbo.b.cfgcgnbceu.bobppcqkcxqueclubpgsqop?cSpcgnfg
sg?cHugcrnxcgfwbcqkkbo b?cFpcxqucfpwb.,cpqcScfoprbeb.,”cnbcebivsb.,
rsgncfcpueiespsoacbdiebppsqocqkcpsjivs sgxtc“Xqucwoqr,cgnbeb’p
nfe.vxcfoxgnsoacScgfwbcsogbebpgcso,”cnbcrbogcqo,cfpcsgcrbebc.ebfjsvx,
“bpib sfvvxcoqr,cS’ybcoqgnsoacgqc.qttttcXqucfebclusgbcfgcvshbegxcgq
sjfasobcgnquancgnfgcScfjcjfwsoacuicgqcxqucrsgncfcjqgsyb,cifegs uvfevxcfp
Scgqv.cxqucScrfogcgqcpbbcxquecpspgbecfhqugcpqjbgnsoatcHugcS’vvc qokbpp
kefowvx,cScfjcybexcju nchqeb.tcGnbcvfpgcgnebbc.fxpcbpib sfvvx,cpqcScfj
.bvsangb.cgqcpbbcxquttttc.qo’gchbcfoaex,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,chugcxqu
pbbjcgqchbcpqjbnqrcfrkuvvxcpgefoabcxquepbvktcPfxcrnfgcxqucvswb,cgnbeb’p
pqjbgnsoacreqoacrsgncxqu,cfo.coqr,cgqqtttcoqgcgnspcybexcjsougb,cScjbfo,
hugcoqr,cabobefvvxttttcRbvv,crbvv,cScrqo’g,cScrqo’g,c.qo’gcp qrv!cScfj
oqgcpu ncfchbfe,cxqucwoqr,cfpcxqucgnsowt”

Efpwqvoswqycvqqwb.cavqqjsvxcfgcnsjt

“Xqucfebcoqgcfchbfe,cibenfip,cfgcfvv,”cnbcpfs.tc“Sckfo xcso.bb.cgnfg
xqucfebcfcjfocqkcybexcaqq.chebb.soa,cqecfgcvbfpgcwoqrcnqrcqocq  fpsqocgq
hbnfybcvswbcqobt”

“Scfjcoqgcifegs uvfevxcsogbebpgb.csocfoxqob’pcqisosqo,”cPys.esafïvqy
foprbeb.,c.exvxcfo.cbybocrsgncfcpnf.bcqkcnfuangsobpp,c“fo.cgnbebkqebcrnx
oqgchbcyuvafecfgcgsjbpcrnbocyuvafesgxcspcpu ncfc qoybosbogc vqfwckqecque
 vsjfgbtttcfo.cbpib sfvvxcskcqobcnfpcfcofguefvcieqibopsgxcgnfgcrfx,”cnb
f..b.,cvfuansoacfafsot

“HugcS’ybcnbfe.cxqucnfybcjfoxckesbo.pcnbebtcXqucfeb,cfpcgnbxcpfx,c‘oqg
rsgnqugc qoob gsqopt’cRnfgc focxqucrfogcrsgncjb,cgnbo,cuovbppcxqu’yb
pqjbcpib sfvcqhmb g?”

“Gnfg’pcgeubcgnfgcScnfybckesbo.pcnbeb,”cPys.esafïvqycf.jsggb.,coqg
ebivxsoacgqcgnbc nsbkciqsogtc“S’ybcjbgcpqjbcfvebf.xtcS’ybchbbocvquoasoa
fhqugckqecgnbcvfpgcgnebbc.fxp,cfo.cS’ybcpbbocgnbj,cqecgnbx’ybcpbbocjbt
Gnfg’pcfcjfggbecqkc quepbtcScfjcrbvvc.ebppb.cfo.ceb wqob.coqgcfciqqe
jfo;cgnbcbjfo sifgsqocqkcgnbcpbekpcnfpo’gcfkkb gb.cjb;cjxcieqibegx
 qopspgpc nsbkvxcqkckqebpgpcfo.crfgbecjbf.qrptcGnbcebyboubcnfpcoqg
kfvvbocqkk;chugtttcScfjcoqgcaqsoacgqcpbbcgnbj,cScrfpcps wcqkcgnbjcvqoa
faqtcS’ybchbbocnbebcgnebbc.fxpcfo.cnfybc fvvb.cqocoqcqobttttcRnfgcfcgqro
sgcsp!cNqrcnfpcsgc qjbcsogqcbdspgbo bcfjqoacup,cgbvvcjbcgnfg?cFcgqrocqk
qkks sfvpcfo.cpgu.bogpcqkcfvvcpqegptcXbp,cgnbeb’pcfcaebfgc.bfvcSc.s.o’g
oqgs bcrnbocScrfpcnbebcbsangcxbfepcfaq,cws wsoacuicjxcnbbvpttttcJxcqovx
nqibcoqrcspcsocfofgqjx,chxcMqyb,csgcsp!”

“Fofgqjx?”

“Hugcfpckqecgnbpbc vuhp,c.uppfugp,cifef.bp,cqecieqaebpp,cso.bb.,
jfxhb--rbvv,cfvvcgnfgc focaqcqocrsgnqugcjb,”cnbcrbogcqo,cfafsocrsgnqug
oqgs soacgnbclubpgsqotc“Hbps.bp,crnqcrfogpcgqchbcfc fe.-pnfeibe?”

“Rnx,cnfybcxquchbbocfc fe.-pnfeibecgnbo?”

“Nqrc quv.cScnbvichbsoa?cGnbebcrfpcfcebauvfecpbgcqkcup,cjbocqkcgnbchbpg
pq sbgx,cbsangcxbfepcfaq;crbcnf.cfcksobcgsjbtcFo.cfvvcjbocqkchebb.soa,
xqucwoqr,ciqbgp,cjbocqkcieqibegxtcFo.cso.bb.cfpcfceuvbcsocquecEuppsfo
pq sbgxcgnbchbpgcjfoobepcfebckquo.cfjqoacgnqpbcrnq’ybchbbocgnefpnb.,
nfybcxqucoqgs b.cgnfg?cS’ybc.bgbesqefgb.csocgnbc quogextcHugcSc.s.cabg
sogqciespqockqec.bhg,cgnequancfcvqrcAebbwcrnqc fjbckeqjcObznsotcGnbo
JfekfcIbgeqyofcgueob.cui;cpnbchfeafsob.crsgncnsjcfo.chquangcjbcqkkckqe
gnsegxcgnqupfo.cpsvybecisb bpc(Scqrb.cpbybogxcgnqupfo.)tcRbcrbebcuosgb.
socvfrkuvcrb.vq wcfo.cpnbchqebcjbcqkkcsogqcgnbc quogexcvswbcfcgebfpuebt
Xqucwoqrcpnbcrfpcksybcxbfepcqv.becgnfocStcPnbcrfpcybexckqo.cqkcjbtcKqe
pbybocxbfepcScobybecvbkgcgnbc quogextcFo.,cgfwbcoqgb,cgnfgcfvvcjxcvskb
pnbcnbv.cfc.q ujbogcqybecjb,cgnbcSQUckqecgnsegxcgnqupfo.cequhvbp,cpq
skcScrbebcgqcbvb gcgqchbcebpgsybcfhqugcfoxgnsoacScpnquv.chbcgefiib.cfg
qo b!cFo.cpnbcrquv.cnfybc.qobcsg!cRqjbockso.coqgnsoacso qjifgshvbcso
gnfgt”

“Skcsgcnf.o’gchbbockqecgnfg,crquv.cxqucnfybcasybocnbecgnbcpvsi?”

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcgqcpfxtcSgcrfpcp fe bvxcgnbc.q ujbogcebpgefsob.cjbtcS
.s.o’gcrfogcgqcaqcfoxrnbebcbvpbtcJfekfcIbgeqyofcnbepbvkcsoysgb.cjbcgqcaq
fheqf.,cpbbsoacScrfpchqeb.,chugcS’ybchbbocfheqf.chbkqeb,cfo.cfvrfxp
kbvgcps wcgnbebtcKqecoqcebfpqo,chugcgnbcpuoespb,cgnbchfxcqkcOfivbp,cgnb
pbf--xqucvqqwcfgcgnbjcfo.csgcjfwbpcxqucpf.tcRnfg’pcjqpgcebyqvgsoacsp
gnfgcqobcspcebfvvxcpf.!cOq,csg’pchbggbecfgcnqjbtcNbebcfgcvbfpgcqob
hvfjbpcqgnbepckqecbybexgnsoacfo.cbd upbpcqobpbvktcScpnquv.cnfybcaqob
ibenfipcqocfocbdib.sgsqocgqcgnbcOqegncIqvb,chb fupbc_m’fscvbcyso
jfuyfsp_cfo.cnfgbc.esowsoa,cfo.cgnbeb’pcoqgnsoacvbkgchugcrsobtcScnfyb
gesb.csgtcHug,cScpfx,cS’ybchbbocgqv.cHbeacspcaqsoacuicsocfcaebfgchfvvqqo
obdgcPuo.fxckeqjcgnbcXupuiqycAfe.bocfo.crsvvcgfwbcuicifppboabepcfgcf
kbbtcSpcsgcgeub?”

“Rnx,crquv.cxqucaqcui?”

“StttcOq,cqn,coq,”cjuggbeb.cPys.esafïvqycebfvvxcpbbjsoacgqchbc.bbicso
gnquangt

“Rnfgc.qbpcnbcjbfo?cSpcnbcsocbfeobpg?”cEfpwqvoswqycrqo.beb.t

“Oq,cgnbc.q ujbogc.s.o’gcebpgefsocjb,”cPys.esafïvqycrbogcqo,
jb.sgfgsybvxtc“Sgcrfpcjxcqroc.qsoa,coqgcvbfysoacgnbc quogex,cfo.cobfevx
fcxbfecfaqcJfekfcIbgeqyofcafybcjbchf wcgnbc.q ujbogcqocjxcofjb-.fx
fo.cjf.bcjbcfciebpbogcqkcfc qops.befhvbcpujcqkcjqobx,cgqqtcPnbcnf.cf
kqeguob,cxqucwoqrtc‘XqucpbbcnqrcScgeupgcxqu,cFewf.xcSyfoqysg n’--gnfg
rfpcf gufvvxcnbecbdiebppsqotcXquc.qo’gchbvsbybcpnbcupb.csg?cHugc.q
xqucwoqrcScjfofab.cgnbcbpgfgbclusgbc.b bogvx,cgnbxcwoqrcjbcsocgnb
obsanhquenqq.tcScqe.beb.chqqwp,cgqqtcJfekfcIbgeqyofcfgcksepgcfiieqyb.,
hugcfkgberfe.pcpnbcrfpcfkefs.cqkcjxcqybe-pgu.xsoat”

“XqucpbbjcgqchbcjsppsoacJfekfcIbgeqyofcybexcju n?”

“Jsppsoacnbe?cIbenfiptcEbfvvx,cibenfipcScfjtcFo.,chxcgnbcrfx,c.qcxqu
hbvsbybcsocanqpgp?”

“Rnfgcanqpgp?”

“Rnx,cqe.sofexcanqpgpt”

“.qcxquchbvsbybcsocgnbj?”

“Ibenfipcoqg,c_iquecyqupcivfseb_ttttcScrquv.o’gcpfxcoqcbdf gvxt”

“.qcxqucpbbcgnbj,cgnbo?”

Pys.esafïvqycvqqwb.cfgcnsjcefgnbecq..vxt

“JfekfcIbgeqyofcspcivbfpb.cgqcyspsgcjb,”cnbcpfs.,cgrspgsoacnspcjqugn
sogqcfcpgefoabcpjsvbt

“Nqrc.qcxqucjbfoc‘pnbcspcivbfpb.cgqcyspsgcxqu’?”

“PnbcnfpchbbocgnebbcgsjbptcScpfrcnbecksepgcqocgnbcybexc.fxcqkcgnb
kuobefv,cfocnquecfkgbecpnbcrfpchuesb.tcSgcrfpcgnbc.fxchbkqebcScvbkgcgq
 qjbcnbebtcGnbcpb qo.cgsjbcrfpcgnbc.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fx,cfgc.fxhebfw,cqo
gnbcmqueobxcfgcgnbcpgfgsqocqkcJfvfxfcYspnbef,cfo.cgnbcgnse.cgsjbcrfpcgrq
nquepcfaqcsocgnbceqqjcrnbebcScfjcpgfxsoatcScrfpcfvqobt”

“Rbebcxqucfrfwb?”

“LusgbcfrfwbtcScrfpcrs.bcfrfwbcbybexcgsjbtcPnbc qjbp,cpibfwpcgqcjbckqe
fcjsougbcfo.caqbpcqugcfgcgnbc.qqe--fvrfxpcfgcgnbc.qqetcSc focfvjqpgcnbfe
nbet”

“Rnfgcjf.bcjbcgnsowcgnfgcpqjbgnsoacqkcgnbcpqegcjupgchbcnfiibosoacgq
xqu?”cEfpwqvoswqycpfs.cpu..bovxt

Fgcgnbcpfjbcjqjbogcnbcrfpcpueiespb.cfgcnfysoacpfs.csgtcNbcrfpcju n
bd sgb.t

“Rnfg!c.s.cxqucgnsowcpq?”cPys.esafïvqycfpwb.csocfpgqospnjbogtc“.s.cxqu
ebfvvx?c.s.o’gcScpfxcgnfgcgnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoacsoc qjjqochbgrbbocup,cbn?”

“Xqucobybecpfs.cpq!”cEfpwqvoswqyc esb.cpnfeivxcfo.crsgncnbfgt

“.s.o’gcS?”

“Oq!”

“ScgnquangcSc.s.tcRnbocSc fjbcsocfo.cpfrcxqucvxsoacrsgncxquecbxbpcpnug,
iebgbo.soa,cScpfs.cgqcjxpbvkcfgcqo b,c‘Nbeb’pcgnbcjfot’”

“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfochxc‘gnbcjfo?’cRnfgcfebcxqucgfvwsoacfhqug?”c esb.
Efpwqvoswqyt

“Rnfgc.qcScjbfo?cScebfvvxc.qo’gcwoqrtttt”cPys.esafïvqycjuggbeb.
soabouqupvx,cfpcgnquancnb,cgqq,crbebciuzzvb.t

KqecfcjsougbcgnbxcrbebcpsvbogtcGnbxcpgfeb.csocbf ncqgnbe’pckf bpt

“Gnfg’pcfvvcoqopbopb!”cEfpwqvoswqycpnqugb.crsgncybdfgsqotc“Rnfgc.qbpcpnb
pfxcrnbocpnbc qjbpcgqcxqu?”

“Pnb!cRquv.cxquchbvsbybcsg,cpnbcgfvwpcqkcgnbcpsvvsbpgcgeskvbpcfo.--jfo
spcfcpgefoabc ebfgueb--sgcjfwbpcjbcfoaextcGnbcksepgcgsjbcpnbc fjbcsoc(S
rfpcgseb.cxqucwoqr:cgnbckuobefvcpbeys b,cgnbckuobefvc bebjqox,cgnbcvuo n
fkgberfe.ptcFgcvfpgcScrfpcvbkgcfvqobcsocjxcpgu.xtcScvsangb.cfc safecfo.
hbafocgqcgnsow),cpnbc fjbcsocfgcgnbc.qqetc‘Xqu’ybchbbocpqchupxcgq-.fx,
Fewf.xcSyfoqysg n,cxqucnfybckqeaqggbocgqcrso.cgnbc.sosoa-eqqjc vq w,’
pnbcpfs.tcFvvcgnqpbcpbybocxbfepcS’ybcrquo.cgnfgc vq wcbybexcrbbw,cfo.csk
Sckqeaqgcsgcpnbcrquv.cfvrfxpcebjso.cjbtcGnbcobdgc.fxcScpbgcqkkcqocjxcrfx
nbebtcScaqgcqugcfgcgnbcpgfgsqocfgc.fxhebfw;cS’.chbbocfpvbbi,cgseb.cqug,
rsgncjxcbxbpcnfvkcqibo,cScrfpc.esowsoacpqjbc qkkbbtcScvqqwb.cuicfo.
gnbebcrfpcpu..bovxcJfekfcIbgeqyofcpsggsoachbps.bcjbcrsgncfcif wcqk
 fe.pcsocnbecnfo.ptc‘PnfvvcScgbvvcxqueckqeguobckqecgnbcmqueobx,cFewf.x
Syfoqysg n?’cPnbcrfpcfcaebfgcnfo.cfgcgbvvsoackqeguobptcScpnfvvcobybe
kqeasybcjxpbvkckqecoqgcfpwsoacnbecgqtcScefocfrfxcsocfckesang,cfo.,
hbps.bp,cgnbchbvvcefoatcScrfpcpsggsoacgq-.fx,ckbbvsoacybexcnbfyxcfkgbecf
jspbefhvbc.soobeckeqjcfc qqwpnqi;cScrfpcpsggsoacpjqwsoa,cfvvcqkcfcpu..bo
JfekfcIbgeqyofcfafsotcPnbc fjbcsocybexcpjfegcsocfcobrcaebbocpsvwc.ebpp
rsgncfcvqoacgefsotc‘Aqq.c.fx,cFewf.xcSyfoqysg n!cNqrc.qcxqucvswbcjx
.ebpp?cFospwfc fo’gcjfwbcvswbcgnspt’c(Fospwfcrfpcfc.ebppjfwbecsocgnb
 quogex,cqobcqkcqueckqejbecpbekcasevpcrnqcnf.chbbocgefsob.csocJqp qr,cf
iebggxcrbo nt)cPnbcpgqq.cgueosoacequo.chbkqebcjbtcScvqqwb.cfgcgnbc.ebpp,
fo.cgnbocScvqqwb.c febkuvvx,cybexc febkuvvx,cfgcnbeckf btc‘Scrqo.be
xqucgequhvbcgqc qjbcgqcjbcfhqugcpu ncgeskvbp,cJfekfcIbgeqyoft’c‘Aqq.
aef squp,cxqucrqo’gcvbgcqobc.spguehcxqucfhqugcfoxgnsoa!’cGqcgbfpbcnbe
Scpfs.,c‘Scrfogcgqcabgcjfeesb.,cJfekfcIbgeqyoft’c‘Gnfg’pcmupgcvswbcxqu,
Fewf.xcSyfoqysg n;csgc.qbpcxqucybexcvsggvbc eb.sgcgqc qjbcvqqwsoackqecf
hes.bcrnbocxqu’ybcnfe.vxchuesb.cxquecrskbtcFo.cskcxquc quv.cjfwbcfcaqq.
 nqs b,cfgcvbfpg,chugcScwoqrcsgcrqo’gchbckqecxquecnfiisobppcqecnbep,cxqu
rsvvcqovxchbcfcvfuansoa-pgq wcgqcfvvcaqq.cibqivbt’cGnbocpnbcrbogcqugcfo.
nbecgefsocpbbjb.cgqceupgvbtcSpo’gcsgcoqopbopb,cbn?”

“Hugcibenfipcxqucfebcgbvvsoacvsbp?”cEfpwqvoswqyciugcsot

“Scefebvxcvsb,”cfoprbeb.cPys.esafïvqycgnquangkuvvx,cfiifebogvxcoqg
oqgs soacgnbceu.bobppcqkcgnbclubpgsqot

“Fo.csocgnbcifpg,cnfybcxqucbybecpbbocanqpgpchbkqeb?”

“X-xbp,cScnfybcpbbocgnbj,chugcqovxcqo bcsocjxcvskb,cpsdcxbfepcfaqtcScnf.
fcpbek,cKsvwf;cmupgcfkgbecnspchuesfvcSc fvvb.cqugckqeabggsoac‘Ksvwf,cjx
isib!’cNbc fjbcsocfo.crbogcgqcgnbc uihqfe.crnbebcjxcisibpcrbebtcScpfg
pgsvvcfo.cgnquangc‘nbcspc.qsoacsgcqugcqkcebyboab,’chb fupbcrbcnf.cf
ysqvbogclufeebvcmupgchbkqebcnspc.bfgntc‘Nqrc.febcxquc qjbcsocrsgncfcnqvb
socxquecbvhqr?’cScpfs.tc‘Aqcfrfx,cxqucp fji!’cNbcgueob.cfo.crbogcqug,
fo.cobybec fjbcfafsotcSc.s.o’gcgbvvcJfekfcIbgeqyofcfgcgnbcgsjbtcScrfogb.
gqcnfybcfcpbeys bcpuoackqecnsj,chugcScrfpcfpnfjb.t”

“Xqucpnquv.caqcgqcfc.q gqet”

“ScwoqrcScfjcoqgcrbvv,crsgnqugcxquecgbvvsoacjb,cgnquancSc.qo’gcwoqr
rnfg’pcreqoa;cSchbvsbybcScfjcksybcgsjbpcfpcpgeqoacfpcxqucfebtcSc.s.o’g
fpwcxqucrnbgnbecxquchbvsbybcgnfgcanqpgpcfebcpbbo,chugcrnbgnbecxqu
hbvsbybcgnfgcgnbxcbdspgt”

“Oq,cScrqo’gchbvsbybcsg!”cEfpwqvoswqyc esb.,crsgnciqpsgsybcfoabet

“Rnfgc.qcibqivbcabobefvvxcpfx?”cjuggbeb.cPys.esafïvqy,cfpcgnquan
pibfwsoacgqcnsjpbvk,cvqqwsoacfps.bcfo.chqrsoacnspcnbf.tc“Gnbxcpfx,c‘Xqu
febcsvv,cpqcrnfgcfiibfepcgqcxqucspcqovxcuoebfvckfogfpxt’cHugcgnfg’pcoqg
pges gvxcvqas fvtcScfaebbcgnfgcanqpgpcqovxcfiibfecgqcgnbcps w,chugcgnfg
qovxcieqybpcgnfgcgnbxcfebcuofhvbcgqcfiibfecbd bigcgqcgnbcps w,coqgcgnfg
gnbxc.qo’gcbdspgt”

“Oqgnsoacqkcgnbcpqeg,”cEfpwqvoswqycsopspgb.cseesgfhvxt

“Oq?cXquc.qo’gcgnsowcpq?”cPys.esafïvqycrbogcqo,cvqqwsoacfgcnsj
.bvshbefgbvxtc“Hugcrnfgc.qcxqucpfxcgqcgnspcfeaujbogc(nbvicjbcrsgn
sg):canqpgpcfeb,cfpcsgcrbeb,cpneb.pcfo.ckefajbogpcqkcqgnbecrqev.p,cgnb
hbasoosoacqkcgnbjtcFcjfocsocnbfvgncnfp,cqkc quepb,coqcebfpqocgqcpbb
gnbj,chb fupbcnbcspcfhqybcfvvcfcjfocqkcgnspcbfegncfo.cspchquo.ckqecgnb
pfwbcqkc qjivbgbobppcfo.cqe.becgqcvsybcqovxcsocgnspcvskbtcHugcfpcpqqo
fpcqobcspcsvv,cfpcpqqocfpcgnbcoqejfvcbfegnvxcqe.becqkcgnbcqeafospjcsp
heqwbo,cqobchbasopcgqcebfvspbcgnbciqppshsvsgxcqkcfoqgnbecrqev.;cfo.cgnb
jqebcpbesqupvxcsvvcqobcsp,cgnbc vqpbechb qjbpcqob’pc qogf gcrsgncgnfg
qgnbecrqev.,cpqcgnfgcfpcpqqocfpcgnbcjfoc.sbpcnbcpgbipcpgefsangcsogqcgnfg
rqev.tcScgnquangcqkcgnfgcvqoacfaqtcSkcxquchbvsbybcsocfckuguebcvskb,cxqu
 quv.chbvsbybcsocgnfg,cgqqt”

“Sc.qo’gchbvsbybcsocfckuguebcvskb,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqyt

Pys.esafïvqycpfgcvqpgcsocgnquangt

“Fo.crnfgcskcgnbebcfebcqovxcpis.bepcgnbeb,cqecpqjbgnsoacqkcgnfgcpqeg,”
cnbcpfs.cpu..bovxt

“Nbcspcfcjf.jfo,”cgnquangcEfpwqvoswqyt

“Rbcfvrfxpcsjfasobcbgbeosgxcfpcpqjbgnsoachbxqo.cquec qo bigsqo,
pqjbgnsoacyfpg,cyfpg!cHugcrnxcjupgcsgchbcyfpg?cSopgbf.cqkcfvvcgnfg,crnfg
skcsg’pcqobcvsggvbceqqj,cvswbcfchfgncnqupbcsocgnbc quogex,chvf w
fo.caesjxcfo.cpis.bepcsocbybexc qeobe,cfo.cgnfg’pcfvvcbgbeosgxcsp?cS
pqjbgsjbpckfo xcsgcvswbcgnfgt”

“ focsgchbcxquc focsjfasobcoqgnsoacmupgbecfo.cjqebc qjkqegsoacgnfo
gnfg?”cEfpwqvoswqyc esb.,crsgncfckbbvsoacqkcfoauspnt

“Mupgbe?cFo.cnqrc focrbcgbvv,cibenfipcgnfgcspcmupg,cfo.c.qcxqucwoqr
sg’pcrnfgcScrquv.c begfsovxcnfybcjf.bcsg,”cfoprbeb.cPys.esafïvqy,crsgncf
yfaubcpjsvbt

Gnspcnqeeshvbcfoprbecpbogcfc qv.c nsvvcgnequancEfpwqvoswqytcPys.esafïvqy
efspb.cnspcnbf.,cvqqwb.cfgcnsj,cfo.cpu..bovxchbafocvfuansoat

“Qovxcgnsow,”cnbc esb.,c“nfvkcfocnquecfaqcrbcnf.cobybecpbbocbf ncqgnbe,
rbcebafe.b.cbf ncqgnbecfpcbobjsbp;cgnbebcspcfcjfggbecuopbggvb.chbgrbbo
up;crb’ybcgneqrocsgcfps.b,cfo.cfrfxcrb’ybcaqobcsogqcgnbcfhpgef g!cRfpo’g
Scesangcsocpfxsoacgnfgcrbcrbebchse.pcqkcfckbfgnbe?”

“Wso.vxcfvvqrcjb,”cEfpwqvoswqycrbogcqocseesgfhvx,c“gqcfpwcxqucgqcbdivfso
rnxcxqucnfybcnqoqueb.cjbcrsgncxquecyspsgtttcfo.tttcfo.cScfjcsocfcnueex,
ScnfybcoqcgsjbcgqcrfpgbtcScrfogcgqcaqcqugt”

“Hxcfvvcjbfop,chxcfvvcjbfoptcXquecpspgbe,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,cspcaqsoacgq
hbcjfeesb.cgqcJetcVuznso,cIxqgecIbgeqysg n?”

“ focxqucebkefsockeqjcfoxclubpgsqocfhqugcjxcpspgbecfo.ckeqjcjbogsqosoa
nbecofjb?cSc fo’gcuo.bepgfo.cnqrcxquc.febcuggbecnbecofjbcsocjxciebpbo b,
skcxqucebfvvxcfebcPys.esafïvqyt”

“Rnx,chugcS’ybc qjbcnbebcgqcpibfwcfhqugcnbe;cnqrc focScfyqs.cjbogsqosoa
nbe?”

“Ybexcaqq.,cpibfw,chugcjfwbcnfpgbt”

“Scfjcpuebcgnfgcxqucjupgcnfybckqejb.cxquecqrocqisosqocqkcgnspcJet
Vuznso,crnqcspcfc qoob gsqocqkcjsobcgnequancjxcrskb,cskcxqucnfybcqovx
pbbocnsjckqecnfvkcfocnque,cqecnbfe.cfoxckf gpcfhqugcnsjtcNbcspcoq
jfg nckqecFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoftcSchbvsbybcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcspcpf esks soa
nbepbvkcabobequpvxcfo.csjieu.bogvxckqecgnbcpfwbcqktttckqecgnbcpfwbcqk
nbeckfjsvxtcSckfo sb.ckeqjcfvvcScnf.cnbfe.cqkcxqucgnfgcxqucrquv.chbcybex
avf.cskcgnbcjfg nc quv.chbcheqwbocqkkcrsgnqugcgnbcpf esks bcqkcrqev.vx
f.yfogfabptcOqrcScwoqrcxqucibepqofvvx,cScfjc qoyso b.cqkcsgt”

“Fvvcgnspcspcybexcofïybtttcbd upbcjb,cScpnquv.cnfybcpfs.csjiu.bogcqo
xquecifeg,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“XqucjbfocgqcpfxcgnfgcScfjcpbbwsoacjxcqrocbo.ptc.qo’gchbcuobfpx,cEq.sqo
Eqjfoqysg n,cskcScrbebcrqewsoackqecjxcqrocf.yfogfab,cScrquv.coqgcnfyb
piqwbocqugcpqc.seb gvxtcScfjcoqgclusgbcfckqqvtcScrsvvc qokbppcpqjbgnsoa
ipx nqvqas fvvxc uesqupcfhqugcgnfg:cmupgcoqr,c.bkbo.soacjxcvqybckqe
Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,cScpfs.cScrfpcjxpbvkcgnbcys gsjtcRbvv,cvbgcjbcgbvvcxqu
gnfgcS’ybcoqckbbvsoacqkcvqybcoqr,coqgcgnbcpvsangbpg,cpqcgnfgcScrqo.be
jxpbvkcso.bb.,ckqecScebfvvxc.s.ckbbvcpqjbgnsoattt”

“Gnequancs.vbobppcfo.c.biefysgx,”cEfpwqvoswqyciugcsot

“Sc begfsovxcfjcs.vbcfo.c.biefyb.,chugcxquecpspgbecnfpcpu nclufvsgsbp
gnfgcbybocSc quv.coqgcnbvichbsoacsjiebppb.chxcgnbjtcHugcgnfg’pcfvv
oqopbopb,cfpcScpbbcjxpbvkcoqrt”

“Nfybcxqucpbbocgnfgcvqoa?”

“Schbafocgqchbcfrfebcqkcsgchbkqeb,chugcrfpcqovxcibekb gvxcpuebcqkcsgcgnb
.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fx,cfvjqpgcfgcgnbcjqjbogcScfeesyb.csocIbgbephueatcS
pgsvvckfo sb.csocJqp qr,cgnquan,cgnfgcScrfpc qjsoacgqcgexcgqcabgcFy.qgxf
Eqjfoqyof’pcnfo.cfo.cgqc ugcqugcJetcVuznsot”

“Bd upbcjbckqecsogbeeuigsoacxqu;cwso.vxchbchesbk,cfo.c qjbcgqcgnbcqhmb g
qkcxquecyspsgtcScfjcsocfcnueex,cScrfogcgqcaqcqugttt”

“RsgncgnbcaebfgbpgcivbfpuebtcQocfeesysoacnbebcfo.c.bgbejsosoacqocf
 begfsotttcmqueobx,cScpnquv.cvswbcgqcjfwbcpqjbcob bppfexciebvsjsofex
feefoabjbogptcScvbkgcjxc nsv.ebocrsgncfocfuog;cgnbxcfebcrbvvcieqys.b.
kqe;cfo.cgnbxcnfybcoqcobb.cqkcjbcibepqofvvxtcFo.cfcos bckfgnbecScpnquv.
jfwb,cgqq!cScnfybcgfwbocoqgnsoachugcrnfgcJfekfcIbgeqyofcafybcjbcfcxbfe
faqtcGnfg’pcboquanckqecjbtcBd upbcjb,cScfjcmupgc qjsoacgqcgnbciqsogt
Hbkqebcgnbcmqueobxcrns ncjfxc qjbcqkk,cScrfogcgqcpbggvbcJetcVuznso,cgqqt
Sg’pcoqgcgnfgcSc.bgbpgcnsjcpqcju n,chugcsgcrfpcgnequancnsjcSclufeebvvb.
rsgncJfekfcIbgeqyofcrnbocScvbfeob.cgnfgcpnbcnf.c.spnb.cuicgnspcjfeesfabt
ScrfogcoqrcgqcpbbcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcgnequancxquecjb.sfgsqo,cfo.cskcxqu
vswbcsocxqueciebpbo b,cgqcbdivfsocgqcnbecgnfgcsocgnbcksepgcivf bcpnb
rsvvcobybecafsocfoxgnsoachugcnfejckeqjcJetcVuznsotcGnbo,chbaasoa
nbecife.qockqecfvvcifpgcuoivbfpfogobpp,cgqcjfwbcnbecfciebpbogcqkcgbo
gnqupfo.cequhvbpcfo.cpqcfppspgcgnbceuiguebcrsgncJetcVuznso,cfceuiguebcgq
rns ncSchbvsbybcpnbcspcnbepbvkcoqgc.spso vsob.,cskcpnbc quv.cpbbcgnbcrfx
gqcsgt”

“Xqucfebc begfsovxcjf.,”c esb.cEfpwqvoswqycoqgcpqcju ncfoabeb.cfp
fpgqospnb.tc“Nqrc.febcxqucgfvwcvswbcgnfg!”

“Scwobrcxqucrquv.cp ebfjcfgcjb;chugcsocgnbcksepgcivf b,cgnquancScfjcoqg
es n,cgnspcgbocgnqupfo.cequhvbpcspcibekb gvxckebb;cScnfybcfhpqvugbvxcoq
obb.ckqecsgtcSkcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofc.qbpcoqgcf  bigcsg,cScpnfvvcrfpgb
sgcsocpqjbcjqebckqqvspncrfxtcGnfg’pcgnbcksepgcgnsoatcPb qo.vx,cjx
 qop sbo bcspcibekb gvxcbfpx;cScjfwbcgnbcqkkbecrsgncoqcuvgbesqecjqgsybt
Xqucjfxcoqgchbvsbybcsg,chugcsocgnbcbo.cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcfo.cxqucrsvv
woqrtcGnbciqsogcsp,cgnfgcSc.s.cf gufvvxc fupbcxquecpspgbe,crnqjcS
aebfgvxcebpib g,cpqjbcgequhvbcfo.cuoivbfpfogobpp,cfo.cpq,cpso bebvx
ebaebggsoacsg,cScrfog--oqgcgqc qjibopfgb,coqgcgqcebifxcnbeckqecgnb
uoivbfpfogobpp,chugcpsjivxcgqc.qcpqjbgnsoacgqcnbecf.yfogfab,cgqcpnqr
gnfgcScfjcoqg,cfkgbecfvv,ciesysvbab.cgqc.qcoqgnsoachugcnfejtcSkcgnbeb
rbebcfcjsvvsqognckef gsqocqkcpbvk-sogbebpgcsocjxcqkkbe,cScpnquv.coqg
nfybcjf.bcsgcpqcqibovx;cfo.cScpnquv.coqgcnfybcqkkbeb.cnbecgbocgnqupfo.
qovx,crnbocksybcrbbwpcfaqcScqkkbeb.cnbecjqeb,cHbps.bp,cScjfx,cibenfip,
ybexcpqqocjfeexcfcxquoacvf.x,cfo.cgnfgcfvqobcquangcgqciebybogcpupis sqo
qkcfoxc.bpsaocqocFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoftcSoc qo vupsqo,cvbgcjbcpfxcgnfg
socjfeexsoacJetcVuznso,cpnbcspcgfwsoacjqobxcmupgcgnbcpfjb,cqovxckeqj
foqgnbecjfotc.qo’gchbcfoaex,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cgnsowcsgcqybec qqvvx
fo.clusbgvxt”

Pys.esafïvqycnsjpbvkcrfpcbd bb.soavxc qqvcfo.clusbgcfpcnbcrfpcpfxsoa
gnspt

“Schbacxqucgqcpfxcoqcjqeb,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqytc“Socfoxc fpbcgnspcsp
uoife.qofhvbcsjibegsobo bt”

“OqgcsocgnbcvbfpgtcGnbocfcjfocjfxc.qcoqgnsoachugcnfejcgqcnspcobsanhque
socgnspcrqev.,cfo.cspciebybogb.ckeqjc.qsoacgnbcgsosbpgchsgcqkcaqq.
hxcgesysfvc qoybogsqofvckqejfvsgsbptcGnfg’pcfhpue.tcSkcSc.sb.,ckqe
sopgfo b,cfo.cvbkgcgnfgcpujcgqcxquecpspgbecsocjxcrsvv,cpuebvxcpnb
rquv.o’gcebkupbcsg?”

“Ybexcvswbvxcpnbcrquv.t”

“Qn,coq,cso.bb.tcNqrbybe,cskcxqucebkupbcsg,cpqchbcsg,cgnquancgbo
gnqupfo.cequhvbpcspcfc fisgfvcgnsoacgqcnfybcqocq  fpsqotcSocfoxc fpbcS
hbacxqucgqcebibfgcrnfgcScnfybcpfs.cgqcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoft”

“Oq,cScrqo’gt”

“Socgnfgc fpb,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cScpnfvvchbcqhvsab.cgqcgexcfo.cpbbcnbe
jxpbvkcfo.crqeexcnbechxc.qsoacpqt”

“Fo.cskcSc.qcgbvvcnbe,crsvvcxqucoqgcgexcgqcpbbcnbe?”

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrcebfvvxcrnfgcgqcpfxtcScpnquv.cvswbcybexcju ncgqcpbbcnbe
qo bcjqebt”

“.qo’gcnqibckqecsgt”

“S’jcpqeextcHugcxquc.qo’gcwoqrcjbtcIbenfipcrbcjfxchb qjbchbggbe
kesbo.pt”

“Xqucgnsowcrbcjfxchb qjbckesbo.p?”

“Fo.crnxcoqg?”cPys.esafïvqycpfs.,cpjsvsoatcNbcpgqq.cuicfo.cgqqwcnspcnfgt
“Sc.s.o’gclusgbcsogbo.cgqc.spguehcxqucfo.cSc fjbcnbebcrsgnqugceb wqosoa
qocsgtttcgnquancScrfpcybexcju ncpgeu wchxcxqueckf bcgnspcjqeosoat”

“Rnbebc.s.cxqucpbbcjbcgnspcjqeosoa?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.cuobfpsvxt

“Scpfrcxquchxc nfo bttttcScwbigckfo xsoacgnbebcspcpqjbgnsoacfhqugcxqu
vswbcjbttttcHugc.qo’gchbcuobfpxtcScfjcoqgcsogeupsyb;cScupb.cgqcabgcqo
fvvcesangcrsgnc fe.-pnfeibep,cfo.cScobybechqeb.cIeso bcPysehbx,cfcaebfg
ibepqofabcrnqcspcfc.spgfogcebvfgsqocqkcjsob,cfo.cSc quv.cresgbcfhqug
Efinfbv’pc_Jf.qoof_csocJf.fjcIesvuwqy’pcfvhuj,cfo.cScobybecvbkgcJfekf
Ibgeqyof’pcps.bckqecpbybocxbfep,cfo.cScupb.cgqcpgfxcgnbcosangcfg
Ysfzbjpwx’pcnqupbcsocgnbcNfxcJfewbgcsocgnbcqv.c.fxp,cfo.cScjfxcaqcuicso
fchfvvqqocrsgncHbea,cibenfipt”

“Qn,cfvvcesangtcFebcxqucpgfegsoacpqqocqocxquecgefybvp,cjfxcScfpw?”

“Rnfgcgefybvp?”

“Rnx,cqocgnfgc‘mqueobx’;cxqucpiqwbcqkcsgcxquepbvkt”

“Fcmqueobx?cQn,cxbptcSc.s.cpibfwcqkcfcmqueobxtcRbvv,cgnfg’pcfcrs.b
puhmb gttttcskcqovxcxqucwobrcrnfgcxqucfebcfpwsoa,”cnbcf..b.,cfo.cafyb
fcpu..bo,cvqu.,cpnqegcvfuantc“IbenfipcS’vvcabgcjfeesb.csopgbf.cqkcgnb
mqueobxtcGnbx’ebcjfwsoacfcjfg nckqecjbt”

“Nbeb?”

“Xbpt”

“Nqrcnfybcxqucnf.cgsjbckqecgnfg?”

“HugcScfjcybexcfodsqupcgqcpbbcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcqo btcScbfeobpgvxchba
sgtcRbvv,caqq.-hxbckqecgnbciebpbogtcQn,cxbptcScnfybckqeaqggbocpqjbgnsoat
Gbvvcxquecpspgbe,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cgnfgcJfekfcIbgeqyofcebjbjhbeb.
nbecsocnbecrsvvcfo.cvbkgcnbecgnebbcgnqupfo.cequhvbptcGnfg’pcfhpqvugbvx
 begfsotcJfekfcIbgeqyofcfeefoab.csgcfcrbbwchbkqebcnbec.bfgn,cfo.csgcrfp
.qobcsocjxciebpbo btcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcrsvvchbcfhvbcgqceb bsybcgnbcjqobx
socgrqcqecgnebbcrbbwpt”

“Febcxqucgbvvsoacgnbcgeugn?”

“Xbp,cgbvvcnbetcRbvv,cxquecpbeyfogtcScfjcpgfxsoacybexcobfecxqut”

Fpcnbcrbogcqug,cPys.esafïvqycefocuicfafsopgcEfzujsnsocsocgnbc.qqerfxt



 NFIGBEcSS

Sgcrfpcobfevxcbsangcq’ vq wtcGnbcgrqcxquoacjbocnueesb.cgqcHfwfvbxby’p,
gqcfeesybchbkqebcVuznsot

“Rnx,crnqcrfpcgnfg?”cfpwb.cEfzujsnso,cfpcpqqocfpcgnbxcrbebcsocgnb
pgebbgt

“SgcrfpcPys.esafïvqy,cgnfgcvfo.qrobecsocrnqpbcnqupbcjxcpspgbecrfp
sopuvgb.crnbocpnbcrfpcgnbsecaqybeobpptcGnequancnspcibepb ugsoacnbecrsgn
nspcfggbogsqop,cpnbcrfpcgueob.cqugchxcnspcrskb,cJfekfcIbgeqyoftcGnsp
JfekfcIbgeqyofchbaab.c.quosf’pckqeasybobppcfkgberfe.p,cfo.cpnb’pcmupg
.sb.cpu..bovxtcSgcrfpcqkcnbecrbcrbebcgfvwsoacgnspcjqeosoatcSc.qo’g
woqrcrnxcS’jcfkefs.cqkcgnfgcjfotcNbc fjbcnbebcfgcqo bcfkgbecnspcrskb’p
kuobefvtcNbcspcybexcpgefoab,cfo.cspc.bgbejsob.cqoc.qsoacpqjbgnsoattttcRb
jupgcaufe.c.quosfckeqjcnsjtttcgnfg’pcrnfgcScrfogb.cgqcgbvvcxqu,c.qcxqu
nbfe?”

“Aufe.cnbe!cRnfgc focnbc.qcgqcnfejcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof?cGnfowcxqu,cEq.xf,
kqecpibfwsoacgqcjbcvswbcgnfgttttcRbcrsvv,crbcrsvvcaufe.cnbetcRnbebc.qbp
nbcvsyb?”

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrt”

“Rnxc.s.o’gcxqucfpw?cRnfgcfcisgx!cS’vvckso.cqug,cgnquant”

“.s.cxqucpbbcnsj?”cfpwb.cEfpwqvoswqycfkgbecfcifupbt

“Xbp,cScoqgs b.cnsj,cScoqgs b.cnsjcrbvvt”

“Xquc.s.cebfvvxcpbbcnsj?cXqucpfrcnsjc vbfevx?”cEfpwqvoswqycsopspgb.t

“Xbp,cScebjbjhbecnsjcibekb gvx,cScpnquv.cwoqrcnsjcsocfcgnqupfo.;cScnfyb
fcaqq.cjbjqexckqeckf bpt”

Gnbxcrbebcpsvbogcfafsot

“Nj!tttcgnfg’pcfvvcesang,”cjuggbeb.cEfpwqvoswqytc“.qcxqucwoqr,cS
kfo sb.tttcScwbbicgnsowsoacgnfgcsgcjfxcnfybchbbocfocnfvvu sofgsqot”

“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfo?cSc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.cxqut”

“Rbvv,cxqucfvvcpfx,”cEfpwqvoswqycrbogcqo,cgrspgsoacnspcjqugncsogqcf
pjsvb,c“gnfgcScfjcjf.tcScgnquangcmupgcoqrcgnfgcibenfipcScebfvvxcfjcjf.,
fo.cnfybcqovxcpbbocfcinfogqjt”

“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfo?”

“Rnx,crnqc focgbvv?cIbenfipcScfjcebfvvxcjf.,cfo.cibenfipcbybexgnsoacgnfg
nfiibob.cfvvcgnbpbc.fxpcjfxchbcqovxcsjfasofgsqot”

“F n,cEq.xf,cxqucnfybchbbocuipbgcfafso!tttcHugcrnfgc.s.cnbcpfx,crnfgc.s.
nbc qjbckqe?”

Efpwqvoswqyc.s.coqgcfoprbetcEfzujsnsocgnquangcfcjsougbt

“Oqrcvbgcjbcgbvvcxqucjxcpgqex,”cnbchbafo,c“Sc fjbcgqcxqu,cxqucrbeb
fpvbbitcGnbocrbcnf.c.soobecfo.cgnbocScrbogcgqcIqeksex’p,cZfjbgqycrfp
pgsvvcrsgncnsjtcScgesb.cgqchbaso,chugcsgcrfpcoqcupbtcSc quv.o’gcpibfwcso
gnbcesangcrfxtcGnbxc.qo’gcpbbjcgqcuo.bepgfo.cfo.c fo’gcuo.bepgfo.,chug
febcoqgcfchsgcfpnfjb.tcSc.ebrcIqeksexcgqcgnbcrso.qr,cfo.chbafocgfvwsoa
gqcnsj,chugcsgcrfpcpgsvvcoqcupbtcNbcvqqwb.cfrfxcfo.cScvqqwb.cfrfxtcFg
vfpgcScpnqqwcjxckspgcsocnspcuavxckf b,cfo.cgqv.cnsjcfpcfc qupsocS’.
hefsocnsjtcNbcjbebvxcvqqwb.cfgcjb,cSc uepb.cfo.c fjbcfrfxtcGnfgcrfp
fvvtcSgcrfpcybexcpguis.tcGqcZfjbgqycSc.s.o’gcpfxcfcrqe.tcHug,cxqucpbb,cS
gnquangcS’.cjf.bcfcjbppcqkcsg,chugcfpcScrbogc.qropgfsepcfchesvvsfogcs.bf
pgeu wcjb:crnxcpnquv.crbcgequhvb?cQkc quepbcskcxqucrbebcsocfoxc.foabe
qecfoxgnsoa,chugcrnxcobb.cxquc feb?cXqucobb.o’gc febcfcnfoackqecgnbjtcRb
pnfvvcnfybcfcvfuancfgcgnbjcfkgberfe.p,cfo.cskcScrbebcsocxquecivf bcS’.
jxpgskxcgnbjcjqebcgnfocbybetcNqrcfpnfjb.cgnbx’vvchbcfkgberfe.p!cNfoa
gnbj!cRbc focgnefpncgnbjcfkgberfe.p,chugcvbg’pcvfuancfgcgnbjcoqr!”

“Gqchbcpueb,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqytc“Hugcrnfgcrsvvcxqucpfxcgq-jqeeqr?”
cnbcgnquangcgqcnsjpbvktcPgefoabcgqcpfx,cgsvvcgnfgcjqjbogcsgcnf.cobybe
q  ueeb.cgqcnsjcgqcrqo.becrnfgcEfzujsnsocrquv.cgnsowcrnbocnbcwobrtcFpcnb
gnquangcsg,cEfpwqvoswqycvqqwb.cfgcnsjtcEfzujsnso’pcf  quogcqkcnspcyspsg
gqcIqeksexcnf.cybexcvsggvbcsogbebpgckqecnsj,cpqcju ncnf.c qjbcfo.caqob
pso bcgnbot

Socgnbc qees.qecgnbxc fjbcuiqocVuznso;cnbcnf.cfeesyb.ciuo gufvvx
fgcbsang,cfo.crfpcvqqwsoackqecgnbcoujhbe,cpqcgnfgcfvvcgnebbcrbogcso
gqabgnbecrsgnqugcaebbgsoacqecvqqwsoacfgcqobcfoqgnbetcGnbcxquoacjbo
rfvwb.csocksepg,crnsvbcIxqgecIbgeqysg n,ckqecaqq.cjfoobep,cvsoabeb.cf
vsggvbcsocgnbcifppfab,cgfwsoacqkkcnspc qfgtcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofc fjb
kqerfe.cfgcqo bcgqcaebbgcnsjcsocgnbc.qqerfx,c.quosfcrfpcrbv qjsoacnbe
heqgnbetcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncrfvwb.csocfo.clusgbcfjsfhvx,cgnquancrsgn
eb.quhvb.c.saosgx,chqrb.cgqcgnbcvf.sbptcNbcvqqwb.,cnqrbybe,cfpcgnquan
nbcrbebcfcvsggvbciugcqugcfo.c quv.coqgcxbgceb qybecnsjpbvktcIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyof,crnqcpbbjb.cfvpqcfcvsggvbcbjhfeefppb.,cnfpgbob.cgqcjfwb
gnbjcfvvcpsgc.qrocfgcgnbcequo.cgfhvbcrnbebcfcpfjqyfecrfpchqsvsoatc.quosf
fo.cVuznsocrbebckf soacqobcfoqgnbecqocqiiqpsgbcps.bpcqkcgnbcgfhvbt
Efzujsnsocfo.cEfpwqvoswqycrbebckf soacIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,cEfzujsnso
rfpcobdgcgqcVuznsocfo.cEfpwqvoswqycrfpchbps.bcnspcpspgbet

Fcjqjbog’pcpsvbo bckqvvqrb.tcIxqgecIbgeqysg nc.bvshbefgbvxc.ebrcqugcf
 fjhes cnfo.wbe nsbkcebbwsoacqkcp bogcfo.chvbrcnspcoqpbcrsgncfocfsecqk
fchbobyqvbogcjfocrnqckbvgcnsjpbvkcpvsangb.,cfo.crfpcksejvxcebpqvyb.cgq
sopspgcqocfocbdivfofgsqotcSocgnbcifppfabcgnbcs.bfcnf.cq  ueeb.cgqcnsjcgq
wbbicqocnspcqybe qfgcfo.crfvwcfrfx,cfo.cpqcasybcgnbcgrqcvf.sbpcfcpnfei
fo.cbjinfgs cvbppqocfo.cjfwbcgnbjckbbvcgnbcaefysgxcqkcgnbciqpsgsqot
Hugcnbc quv.coqgchesoacnsjpbvkcgqc.qcgnsptcHbps.bp,cnbc quv.coqgcbo.ueb
uo begfsogx,cfo.cnbcrfogb.cfocbdivfofgsqo:cskcnspceblubpgcnf.chbbocpq
qibovxc.spqhbxb.,cgnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoachbnso.csg,cfo.csocgnfgc fpbcsgcrfp
hbggbecgqckso.csgcqugchbkqebnfo.;csgcebpgb.crsgncnsjcgqciuospncgnbjcfo.
gnbebcrquv.cfvrfxpchbcgsjbckqecgnfgt

“Scgeupgcxqucnf.cfckfyquefhvbcmqueobx,”cnbcsoluseb.cqkks sfvvxcqk
Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoft

“Qn,cybex,cIxqgecIbgeqysg nt”

“Scfjcaefgsksb.cgqcnbfecsgtcFo.cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcspcoqgcqybe-kfgsaub.
bsgnbe?”

“Scfjcxquoacfo.cpgeqoa,cSc.qo’gcabgcgseb.,chugcsgcrfpcfcaebfgcpgefsockqe
jqgnbe,”cfoprbeb.c.quosft

“Gnfg’pcuofyqs.fhvb!cquecofgsqofvcefsvrfxpcfebcqkcgbeeshvbcvboagnt
‘JqgnbecEuppsf,’cfpcgnbxcpfx,cspcfcyfpgc quogexttttcSocpisgbcqkcfvvcjx
.bpsebcgqc.qcpq,cScrfpcuofhvbcgqcjbbgcxqucxbpgbe.fxtcHugcScgeupgcfvv
ifppb.cqkkcrsgnqugcso qoybosbo b?”

“Qn,coq,cIxqgecIbgeqysg n,csgcrfpcfvvcgbeeshvxc.spnbfegbosoa,”cIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyofcnfpgbob.cgqc.b vfebcrsgncib uvsfecsogqofgsqo,c“fo.csk
.jsgescIeqwqksg ncnf.coqgchbbocpbogcup,cScebfvvxchbvsbybchxcAq.cNsjpbvk,
rbcpnquv.cnfybchbbocuggbevxcvqpgtcNbeb,cnbcsp!c.jsgescIeqwqksg n
Efzujsnso,”cpnbcf..b.,csogeq.u soacnsjcgqcVuznsot

“Scnf.cgnbcivbfpuebtttcxbpgbe.fx,”cjuggbeb.cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncrsgncf
nqpgsvbcavfo bcps.bvqoacfgcEfzujsnso;cgnbocnbcp qrvb.cfo.crfpcpsvbogt

IxqgecIbgeqysg nchbvqoab.cgqcgnfgc vfppcqkcibepqop,cqocgnbcpuekf bcybex
iqvsgbcsocpq sbgx,crnqcjfwbcfcaebfgciqsogcqkciuo gsvsqupobpp,chugcrnq,
.seb gvxcgnbxcfebc eqppb.csocfoxgnsoa,cfebc qjivbgbvxc.sp qo begb.,cfo.
hb qjbcjqebcvswbcpf wpcqkckvquecgnfocbvbafogcfo.cvsybvxcjbocqkcpq sbgxt
Fafsocfvvcrfpcpsvbog;cEfpwqvoswqycrfpcqhpgsofgbvxcjugb,cFy.qgxf
Eqjfoqyofcrfpcuorsvvsoacgqcqibocgnbc qoybepfgsqocgqqcpqqotcEfzujsnsocnf.
oqgnsoacgqcpfx,cpqcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrfpcfodsqupcfafsot

“JfekfcIbgeqyofcspc.bf.,cnfybcxqucnbfe.?”cpnbchbafocnfysoaceb quepbcgq
nbecvbf.soacsgbjcqkc qoybepfgsqot

“Gqchbcpueb,cScnbfe.cpqtcScrfpcsjjb.sfgbvxcsokqejb.,cfo.cScnfybc qjbcgq
jfwbcxqucf lufsogb.crsgncgnbckf gcgnfgcFewf.xcSyfoqysg ncPys.esafïvqy
pbgcqkkcsocnfpgbckqecIbgbephueacsjjb.sfgbvxcfkgbecnspcrskb’pckuobefvtcPq
fgcvbfpgcScnfybcbd bvvbogcfugnqesgxckqechbvsbysoat”

“GqcIbgbephuea?cnbeb?”c.quosfcfpwb.csocfvfejcfo.cvqqwb.cfgcnbecjqgnbet

“Xbp,cso.bb.,cfo.c.quhgvbppcoqgcrsgnqugcpqjbc.bpsao,cnfysoacsocysbrcgnb
efis.sgxcqkcnspc.bifegueb,cfo.cfvvcgnbc se ujpgfo bpcieb b.soacsgt”

“Aqq.cnbfybop!crqo’gcnbcvbfybc.quosfcsocibf bcbybocnbeb?”c esb.
Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoft

“ScsjfasobcgnfgcobsgnbecxqucoqecFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcnfybcfoxcaequo.pckqe
uobfpsobpp,cuovbpp,cqkc quepb,cxqucfebcxquepbvybpc.bpsequpcqkcabggsoa
sogqc qjjuos fgsqocrsgncnsjtcKqecjxcifegcScfjcqocjxcaufe.,cfo.cfjcoqr
.sp qybesoacrnbebcnbcspcvq.asoat”

“Qn,cIxqgecIbgeqysg n,cxqucrquv.coqgchbvsbybcrnfgcfckesangcxqucnfyb
asybocjb,”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrbogcqo:c“S’ybcqovxcpbbocnsjcgrs b,
hugcScgnquangcnsjcgbeeshvb,cgbeeshvb!cScfjc qoyso b.cgnfgcnbcrfpcgnb
 fupbcqkcJfekfcIbgeqyof’pc.bfgnt”

“Sg’pcsjiqppshvbcgqchbc begfsocfhqugcgnfgtcScnfybcieb spbcsokqejfgsqotcS
.qcoqgc.spiugbcgnfgcnbcjfxcnfybc qogeshugb.cgqcf  bvbefgbcgnbc quepbcqk
bybogpchxcgnbcjqefvcsokvubo b,cpqcgqcpfx,cqkcgnbcfkkeqog;chugcfpcgqcgnb
abobefvc qo.u gcfo.cjqefvc nfef gbespgs pcqkcgnfgcibepqofab,cScfj
socfaebbjbogcrsgncxqutcSc.qcoqgcwoqrcrnbgnbecnbcspcrbvvcqkkcoqr,cfo.
ieb spbvxcrnfgcJfekfcIbgeqyofcvbkgcnsj;cgnspcrsvvchbcwoqrocgqcjbcrsgnso
fcybexcpnqegcibesq.;chugcoqc.quhgcnbebcsocIbgbephuea,cskcnbcnfpcfox
ib uosfexcebpque bp,cnbcrsvvcebvfipbcfgcqo bcsogqcnspcqv.crfxptcNbcsp
gnbcjqpgc.biefyb.,cfo.cfhmb gvxcys squpcpib sjbocqkcgnfgc vfppcqkcjbot
Scnfybc qops.befhvbcebfpqocgqchbvsbybcgnfgcJfekfcIbgeqyof,crnqcrfpcpq
uokqeguofgbcfpcgqckfvvcsocvqybcrsgncnsjcfo.cgqcifxcnspc.bhgpcbsangcxbfep
faq,crfpcqkcpbeys bcgqcnsjcfvpqcsocfoqgnbecrfxtcPqvbvxchxcnbecbdbegsqop
fo.cpf esks bp,cfc esjsofvc nfeab,csoyqvysoacfocbvbjbogcqkckfogfpgs 
fo.cnqjs s.fvcheugfvsgxckqecrns ncnbcjsangcrbvvcnfybchbbocpbogbo b.cgq
Pshbesf,crfpcnupnb.cuitcGnfg’pcgnbcpqegcqkcjfocnbcsp,cskcxquc febcgq
woqrt”

“Aqq.cnbfybop!”c esb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoftcEfpwqvoswqycvspgbob.
fggbogsybvxt

“Febcxqucpibfwsoacgnbcgeugncrnbocxqucpfxcgnfgcxqucnfybcaqq.cbys.bo bcqk
gnsp?”c.quosfcfpwb.cpgbeovxcfo.cbjinfgs fvvxt

“ScqovxcebibfgcrnfgcScrfpcgqv.csocpb ebgchxcJfekfcIbgeqyoftcScjupg
qhpbeybcgnfgckeqjcgnbcvbafvciqsogcqkcysbrcgnbc fpbcrfpckfeckeqjc vbfet
Gnbebcrfp,cfo.cSchbvsbybcpgsvvcsp,cvsysoacnbebcfcrqjfoc fvvb.cEbppvs n,
fckqebsaobe,crnqcvbogcpjfvvcpujpcqkcjqobxcfgcsogbebpg,cfo.c.s.cqgnbe
 qjjsppsqop,cfo.crsgncgnspcrqjfocPys.esafïvqycnf.ckqecfcvqoacrnsvbc vqpb
fo.cjxpgbesqupcebvfgsqoptcPnbcnf.cfcebvfgsqo,cfcosb bcSchbvsbyb,cvsysoa
rsgncnbe,cfc.bfkcfo.c.ujhcasevcqkckskgbbo,cqecibenfipcoqgcjqebcgnfo
kquegbbotcEbppvs ncnfgb.cgnspcasev,cfo.caeu.ab.cnbecbybexc eupg;cpnb
upb.cgqchbfgcnbecjbe svbppvxtcQobc.fxcgnbcasevcrfpckquo.cnfoasoacso
gnbcafeebgtcFgcgnbcsolubpgcgnbcybe.s gcrfpcpus s.btcFkgbecgnbcupufv
ieq bb.soapcgnbcjfggbecbo.b.,chug,cvfgbecqo,csokqejfgsqocrfpcasybocgnfg
gnbc nsv.cnf.chbbotttc eubvvxcqugefab.chxcPys.esafïvqytcSgcspcgeub,cgnsp
rfpcoqgc vbfevxcbpgfhvspnb.,cgnbcsokqejfgsqocrfpcasybochxcfoqgnbecAbejfo
rqjfocqkcvqqpbc nfef gbecrnqpbcrqe.c quv.coqgchbcgeupgb.;coqcpgfgbjbog
rfpcf gufvvxcjf.bcgqcgnbciqvs b,cgnfowpcgqcJfekfcIbgeqyof’pcjqobxcfo.
bdbegsqop;csgc.s.coqgcabgchbxqo.caqppsitcFo.cxbgcgnbcpgqexcspcfcybex
psaosks fogcqobtcXqucnbfe.,coqc.quhg,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,crnbocxqucrbeb
rsgncgnbjcgnbcpgqexcqkcgnbcpbeyfogcInsvsicrnqc.sb.cqkcsvvcgebfgjbogcnb
eb bsyb.cpsdcxbfepcfaq,chbkqebcgnbcfhqvsgsqocqkcpbek.qjt”

“Scnbfe.,cqocgnbc qogefex,cgnfgcgnspcInsvsicnfoab.cnsjpbvkt”

“Lusgbcpq,chugcrnfgc.eqybcnsj,cqecefgnbecibenfipc.spiqpb.cnsj,
gqcpus s.bcrfpcgnbcpxpgbjfgs cibepb ugsqocfo.cpbybesgxcqkcJet
Pys.esafïvqyt”

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrcgnfg,”cfoprbeb.c.quosf,c.exvxtc“Scqovxcnbfe.cfclubbecpgqex
gnfgcInsvsicrfpcfcpqegcqkcnxiq nqo.esf ,cfcpqegcqkc.qjbpgs cinsvqpqinbe,
gnbcpbeyfogpcupb.cgqcpfx,c‘nbcebf.cnsjpbvkcpsvvx,’cfo.cgnfgcnbcnfoab.
nsjpbvkcifegvxcqocf  quogcqkcJetcPys.esafïvqy’pcjq wbexcqkcnsjcfo.coqg
nspchvqrptcRnbocScrfpcgnbebcnbchbnfyb.crbvvcgqcgnbcpbeyfogp,cfo.cgnbx
rbebcf gufvvxckqo.cqkcnsj,cgnquancgnbxc begfsovxc.s.chvfjbcnsjckqe
Insvsi’pc.bfgnt”

“Scibe bsyb,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,cgnfgcxqucpbbjc.spiqpb.cgqcuo.begfwbcnsp
.bkbo bcfvvcqkcfcpu..bo,”cVuznsocqhpbeyb.,cgrspgsoacnspcvsipcsogq
focfjhsauqupcpjsvb,c“gnbeb’pcoqc.quhgcgnfgcnbcspcfocfpgugbcjfo,cfo.
sopsoufgsoacrnbebcvf.sbpcfebc qo beob.,cqkcrns ncJfekfcIbgeqyof,crnqcnfp
.sb.cpqcpgefoabvx,cspcfcgbeeshvbcsopgfo btcJxcqovxc.bpsebcnfpchbbocgqchb
qkcpbeys bcgqcxqucfo.cxquecjqgnbecrsgncjxcf.ys b,csocysbrcqkcgnbcebobrb.
bkkqegpcrns ncjfxc begfsovxchbcfogs sifgb.ckeqjcnsjtcKqecjxcifegcsg’p
jxcksejc qoys gsqo,cgnfgcnbcrsvvcbo.csocfc.bhgqe’pciespqocfafsot
JfekfcIbgeqyofcnf.coqgcgnbcpvsangbpgcsogbogsqocqkcpbggvsoacfoxgnsoa
puhpgfogsfvcqocnsj,cnfysoacebafe.ckqecnspc nsv.ebo’pcsogbebpgp,cfo.,
skcpnbcvbkgcnsjcfoxgnsoa,csgcrquv.cqovxchbcgnbcjbebpgcpukks sbo x,
pqjbgnsoacsopsaosks fogcfo.cbinbjbefv,crns ncrquv.coqgcvfpgcfcxbfeckqecf
jfocqkcnspcnfhsgpt”

“IxqgecIbgeqysg n,cSchbacxqu,”cpfs.c.quosf,c“pfxcoqcjqebcqkcJet
Pys.esafïvqytcSgcjfwbpcjbcjspbefhvbt”

“Nbcnfpcmupgchbbocgqcpbbcjb,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,chebfwsoacnspcpsvbo bckqe
gnbcksepgcgsjbt

Gnbebcrbebcbd vfjfgsqopckeqjcfvv,cfo.cgnbxcfvvcgueob.cgqcnsjtcBybocIxqge
Ibgeqysg ncrfpcequpb.t

“Focnquecfo.cfcnfvkcfaq,cnbc fjbcsocrnbocScrfpcfpvbbi,crfwb.cjb,cfo.
sogeq.u b.cnsjpbvk,”cEfpwqvoswqyc qogsoub.tc“Nbcrfpckfsevxc nbbekuv
fo.cfgcbfpb,cfo.clusgbcnqibpcgnfgcrbcpnfvvchb qjbckesbo.ptcNbcsp
ifegs uvfevxcfodsqup,chxcgnbcrfx,c.quosf,ckqecfocsogbeysbrcrsgncxqu,cfg
rns ncnbcfpwb.cjbcgqcfppspgtcNbcnfpcfcieqiqpsgsqocgqcjfwbcgqcxqu,cfo.
nbcgqv.cjbcfhqugcsgtcNbcgqv.cjb,cgqq,cgnfgcfcrbbwchbkqebcnbec.bfgncJfekf
Ibgeqyofcvbkgcxqucgnebbcgnqupfo.cequhvbpcsocnbecrsvv,c.quosf,cfo.cgnfg
xquc foceb bsybcgnbcjqobxcybexcpnqegvxt”

“GnfowcAq.!”c esb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,c eqppsoacnbepbvktc“Iefxckqe
nbecpquv,c.quosf!”

“Sg’pcfckf g!”cheqwbckeqjcVuznsot

“Gbvvcup,crnfgcjqeb?”c.quosfcueab.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“Gnbocnbcpfs.cgnfgcnbcrfpo’gces ncfo.cfvvcgnbcbpgfgbcrfpcvbkgcgqcnsp
 nsv.ebocrnqcfebcoqrcrsgncfocfuog,cgnbocgnfgcnbcrfpcpgfxsoacpqjbrnbeb
oqgckfeckeqjcjb,chugcrnbeb,cSc.qo’gcwoqr,cSc.s.o’gcfpwtttt”

“Hugcrnfg,crnfgc.qbpcnbcrfogcgqcieqiqpbcgqc.quosf?”c esb.cIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyofcsocfckesangtc“.s.cnbcgbvvcxqu?”

“Xbpt”

“Rnfgcrfpcsg?”

“S’vvcgbvvcxqucfkgberfe.pt”

Efpwqvoswqyc bfpb.cpibfwsoacfo.cgueob.cnspcfggbogsqocgqcnspcgbft

IxqgecIbgeqysg ncvqqwb.cfgcnspcrfg nt

“Scfjc qjibvvb.cgqcwbbicfchupsobppcboafabjbog,cfo.cpqcScpnfvvcoqgchbcso
xquecrfx,”cnbcf..b.crsgncfocfsecqkcpqjbcislubcfo.cnbchbafocabggsoacuit

“.qo’gcaq,cIxqgecIbgeqysg n,”cpfs.c.quosf,c“xqucsogbo.b.cgqcpibo.
gnbcbybosoatcHbps.bp,cxqucreqgbcxquepbvkcgnfgcxqucrfogb.cgqcnfybcfo
bdivfofgsqocrsgncjqgnbet”

“Ieb spbvxcpq,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,”cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncfoprbeb.
sjiebppsybvx,cpsggsoac.qrocfafso,chugcpgsvvcnqv.soacnspcnfgtc“S
 begfsovxc.bpseb.cfocbdivfofgsqocrsgncxqucfo.cxquecnqoqueb.cjqgnbecuiqo
fcybexcsjiqegfogciqsogcso.bb.tcHugcfpcxquecheqgnbec fooqgcpibfwcqibovx
socjxciebpbo bcqkcpqjbcieqiqpfvpcqkcJetcPys.esafïvqy,cS,cgqq,c.qcoqg
.bpsebcfo.cfjcoqgcfhvbcgqcpibfwcqibovxtttcsocgnbciebpbo bcqkcqgnbepttt
qkc begfsocjfggbepcqkcgnbcaebfgbpgcaefysgxtcJqebqybe,cjxcjqpgcrbsangx
fo.cueabogceblubpgcnfpchbboc.spebafe.b.tttt”

Fppujsoacfocfaaesbyb.cfse,cVuznsocebvfipb.csogqc.saosksb.cpsvbo bt

“Xqueceblubpgcgnfgcjxcheqgnbecpnquv.coqgchbciebpbogcfgcquecjbbgsoacrfp
.spebafe.b.cpqvbvxcfgcjxcsopspgfo b,”cpfs.c.quosftc“Xqucreqgbcgnfgcxqu
nf.chbbocsopuvgb.chxcjxcheqgnbe;cScgnsowcgnfgcgnspcjupgchbcbdivfsob.cfg
qo b,cfo.cxqucjupgchbceb qo svb.tcFo.cskcEq.xfcebfvvxcnfpcsopuvgb.cxqu,
gnbocnbc_pnquv._cfo.c_rsvv_cfiqvqaspbt”

IxqgecIbgeqysg ncgqqwcfcpgeqoabecvsobt

“Gnbebcfebcsopuvgp,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,crns ncoqcaqq.rsvvc focjfwbcup
kqeabgtcGnbebcspcfcvsobcsocbybexgnsoacrns ncsgcspc.foabequpcgqcqybepgbi;
fo.crnbocsgcnfpchbbocqybepgbiib.,cgnbebcspcoqcebgueot”

“Gnfgcrfpo’gcrnfgcScrfpcpibfwsoacqkcbdf gvx,cIxqgecIbgeqysg n,”c.quosf
sogbeeuigb.crsgncpqjbcsjifgsbo btc“Ivbfpbcuo.bepgfo.cgnfgcquecrnqvb
kuguebc.bibo.pcoqrcqocrnbgnbecfvvcgnspcspcbdivfsob.cfo.cpbgcesangcfp
pqqocfpciqppshvbtcScgbvvcxquckefowvxcfgcgnbcpgfegcgnfgcSc fooqgcvqqwcfg
sgcsocfoxcqgnbecvsang,cfo.cskcxqucnfybcgnbcvbfpgcebafe.ckqecjb,cfvvcgnsp
hupsobppcjupgchbcbo.b.cgq-.fx,cnqrbybecnfe.cgnfgcjfxchbtcScebibfgcgnfg
skcjxcheqgnbecspcgqchvfjbcnbcrsvvcfpwcxqueckqeasybobppt”

“Scfjcpueiespb.cfgcxqueciuggsoacgnbclubpgsqocvswbcgnfg,”cpfs.cVuznso,
abggsoacjqebcfo.cjqebcseesgfgb.tc“Bpgbbjsoa,cfo.cpqcgqcpfx,cf.qesoacxqu,
Scjfxcfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjb,cybexcrbvvcso.bb.,chbcfhvbcgqc.spvswbcpqjbcjbjhbe
qkcxqueckfjsvxtcGnquancScvfxc vfsjcgqcgnbcnfiisobppcqkcxquecnfo.,cS
 fooqgcf  bigc.ugsbpcso qjifgshvbcrsgnttt”

“Fn,c.qo’gchbcpqcebf.xcgqcgfwbcqkkbo b,cIxqgecIbgeqysg n,”c.quosf
sogbeeuigb.crsgnckbbvsoa,c“fo.chbcgnbcpbopshvbcfo.cabobequpcjfocScnfyb
fvrfxpc qops.beb.,cfo.crspncgqc qops.be,cxqucgqchbtcS’ybcasybocxqucf
aebfgcieqjspb,cScfjcxquechbgeqgnb.tcGeupgcjbcsocgnspcjfggbecfo.,chbvsbyb
jb,cScpnfvvchbc fifhvbcqkcmu.asoacsjifegsfvvxtcJxcfppujsoacgnbcifegcqk
mu.abcspcfpcju ncfcpueiespbckqecjxcheqgnbecfpckqecxqutcRnbocScsopspgb.
qocnspc qjsoacgqcquecsogbeysbrcgq-.fxcfkgbecxquecvbggbe,cScgqv.
nsjcoqgnsoacqkcrnfgcScjbfogcgqc.qtcUo.bepgfo.cgnfg,cskcxqucfebcoqg
eb qo svb.,cScjupgc nqqpbchbgrbbocxqu--sgcjupgchbcbsgnbecxqucqecnbtcGnfg
spcnqrcgnbclubpgsqocebpgpcqocxquecps.bcfo.cqocnsptcSc.qo’gcrfogcgqchb
jspgfwbocsocjxc nqs b,cfo.cScjupgcoqgchbtcKqecxquecpfwbcScjupgchebfwcqkk
rsgncjxcheqgnbe,ckqecjxcheqgnbe’pcpfwbcScjupgchebfwcqkkcrsgncxqutcSc fo
kso.cqugckqec begfsocoqrcrnbgnbecnbcspcfcheqgnbecgqcjb,cfo.cScrfogcgq
woqrcsg;cfo.cqkcxqu,crnbgnbecScfjc.bfecgqcxqu,crnbgnbecxqucbpgbbjcjb,
rnbgnbecxqucfebcgnbcnuphfo.ckqecjbt”

“Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,”cVuznsoc.b vfeb.cnukksvx,c“xquecrqe.pcfebcqkcgqq
ju nc qopblubo bcgqcjb;cScrsvvcpfxcjqeb,cgnbxcfebcqkkbopsybcsocysbr
qkcgnbciqpsgsqocScnfybcgnbcnqoquecgqcq  uixcsocebvfgsqocgqcxqutcGqcpfx
oqgnsoacqkcxquecpgefoabcfo.cqkkbopsybcpbggsoacjbcqocfcvbybvcrsgncfo
sjibegsobogchqx,cxqucf.jsgcgnbciqppshsvsgxcqkchebfwsoacxquecieqjspbcgq
jbtcXqucpfxc‘xqucqecnb,’cpnqrsoacgnbebhxcqkcnqrcvsggvbc qopblubo bcS
fjcsocxquecbxbptttcSc fooqgcvbgcgnspcifppc qops.besoacgnbcebvfgsqopnsi
fo.tttcgnbcqhvsafgsqopcbdspgsoachbgrbbocupt”

“Rnfg!”c esb.c.quosf,ckvupnsoatc“Scpbgcxquecsogbebpgchbps.bcfvvcgnfgcnfp
nsgnbegqchbbocjqpgcieb squpcsocjxcvskb,crnfgcnfpcjf.bcuicgnbc_rnqvb_cqk
jxcvskb,cfo.cnbebcxqucfebcqkkbo.b.cfgcjxcjfwsoacgqqc_vsggvb_cf  quogcqk
xqut”

Efpwqvoswqycpjsvb.cpfe fpgs fvvx,cEfzujsnsocks.abgb.,chugcIxqge
Ibgeqysg nc.s.coqgcf  bigcgnbcebieqqk;cqocgnbc qogefex,cfgcbybexcrqe.cnb
hb fjbcjqebcibepspgbogcfo.cseesgfhvb,cfpcgnquancnbcebvspnb.csgt

“Vqybckqecgnbckuguebcifegobecqkcxquecvskb,ckqecxquecnuphfo.,cquangcgq
qugrbsancxquecvqybckqecxquecheqgnbe,”cnbcieqoquo b.cpbogbogsqupvx,c“fo.
socfoxc fpbcSc fooqgchbciugcqocgnbcpfjbcvbybvttttcFvgnquancScpfs.cpq
bjinfgs fvvxcgnfgcScrquv.coqgcpibfwcqibovxcsocxquecheqgnbe’pciebpbo b,
obybegnbvbpp,cScsogbo.coqrcgqcfpwcxquecnqoqueb.cjqgnbeckqecfcob bppfex
bdivfofgsqocqocfciqsogcqkcaebfgcsjiqegfo bc vqpbvxcfkkb gsoacjxc.saosgxt
Xquecpqo,”cnbcgueob.cgqcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,c“xbpgbe.fxcsocgnb
iebpbo bcqkcJetcEfzpu.wsoc(qetttcScgnsowcgnfg’pcsg?cbd upbcjbcScnfyb
kqeaqggbocxquecpueofjb,”cnbchqrb.ciqvsgbvxcgqcEfzujsnso)c“sopuvgb.cjbchx
jspebiebpbogsoacgnbcs.bfcScbdiebppb.cgqcxqucsocfciesyfgbc qoybepfgsqo,
.esowsoac qkkbb,cgnfgcsp,cgnfgcjfeesfabcrsgncfciqqecasevcrnqcnfpcnf.
bdibesbo bcqkcgequhvbcspcjqebcf.yfogfabqupckeqjcgnbc qomuafvciqsogcqk
ysbrcgnfocrsgncqobcrnqcnfpcvsyb.csocvuduex,cpso bcsgcspcjqebcieqksgfhvb
kqecgnbcjqefvc nfef gbetcXquecpqocsogbogsqofvvxcbdfaabefgb.cgnb
psaosks fo bcqkcjxcrqe.pcfo.cjf.bcgnbjces.s uvqup,cf  upsoacjbcqk
jfvs squpcsogbogsqop,cfo.,cfpckfecfpcSc quv.cpbb,cebvsb.cuiqocxque
 qeebpiqo.bo bcrsgncnsjtcScpnfvvc qops.becjxpbvkcnfiix,cIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyof,cskcsgcspciqppshvbckqecxqucgqc qoyso bcjbcqkcfocqiiqpsgb
 qo vupsqo,cfo.cgnbebhxc qops.befgbvxcebfppuebcjbtcWso.vxcvbgcjbcwoqr
socrnfgcgbejpcieb spbvxcxqucebibfgb.cjxcrqe.pcsocxquecvbggbecgqcEq.sqo
Eqjfoqysg nt”

“Sc.qo’gcebjbjhbe,”ckfvgbeb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoftc“Scebibfgb.cgnbjcfp
Scuo.bepgqq.cgnbjtcSc.qo’gcwoqrcnqrcEq.xfcebibfgb.cgnbjcgqcxqu,cibenfip
nbcbdfaabefgb.t”

“Nbc quv.coqgcnfybcbdfaabefgb.cgnbj,cbd bigcfgcxquecsopgsafgsqot”

“IxqgecIbgeqysg n,”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofc.b vfeb.crsgnc.saosgx,c“gnb
ieqqkcgnfgc.quosfcfo.cSc.s.coqgcgfwbcxquecrqe.pcsocfcybexchf.cpbopbcsp
gnbckf gcgnfgcrbcfebcnbebt”

“Aqq.,cjqgnbe,”cpfs.c.quosfcfiieqysoavxt

“Gnbocgnspcspcjxckfuvgcfafso,”cpfs.cVuznso,cfaaesbyb.t

“Rbvv,cIxqgecIbgeqysg n,cxqucwbbichvfjsoacEq.sqo,chugcxqucxquepbvkcnfyb
mupgcresggbocrnfgcrfpckfvpbcfhqugcnsj,”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcf..b.,
afsosoac quefabt

“Sc.qo’gcebjbjhbecresgsoacfoxgnsoackfvpbt”

“Xqucreqgb,”cEfpwqvoswqycpfs.cpnfeivx,coqgcgueosoacgqcVuznso,c“gnfgcS
afybcjqobxcxbpgbe.fxcoqgcgqcgnbcrs.qrcqkcgnbcjfocrnqcrfpcwsvvb.,cfpcrfp
gnbckf g,chugcgqcnspc.fuangbec(rnqjcScnf.cobybecpbbocgsvvcxbpgbe.fx)t
Xqucreqgbcgnspcgqcjfwbc.sppbopsqochbgrbbocjbcfo.cjxckfjsvx,cfo.ckqecgnfg
qhmb gcf..b.c qfepbcbdiebppsqopcfhqugcgnbc qo.u gcqkcfcasevcrnqjcxqu
.qo’gcwoqrtcFvvcgnfgcspcjbfocpvfo.bet”

“Bd upbcjb,cpse,”cpfs.cVuznso,clusybesoacrsgnckuextc“Scbovfeab.cuiqo
xqueclufvsgsbpcfo.c qo.u gcsocjxcvbggbecpqvbvxcsocebpiqopbcgqcxque
pspgbe’pcfo.cjqgnbe’pcsolusesbp,cnqrcSckquo.cxqu,cfo.crnfgcsjiebppsqo
xqucjf.bcqocjbtcFpckqecrnfgcxqu’ybcfvvu.b.cgqcsocjxcvbggbe,chbcpqcaqq.
fpcgqciqsogcqugcqobcrqe.cqkckfvpbnqq.,cpnqr,cgnfgcsp,cgnfgcxquc.s.o’g
gneqrcfrfxcxquecjqobx,cfo.cgnfgcgnbebcfebcoqgcrqegnvbppcibepqopcsocgnfg
kfjsvx,cnqrbybecuokqeguofgbt”

“Gqcjxcgnsowsoa,cxqu,crsgncfvvcxquecysegubp,cfebcoqgcrqegncgnbcvsggvb
ksoabecqkcgnfgcuokqeguofgbcasevcfgcrnqjcxqucgneqrcpgqobpt”

“Rquv.cxqucaqcpqckfecgnbocfpcgqcvbgcnbecfppq sfgbcrsgncxquecjqgnbecfo.
pspgbe?”

“Scnfybc.qobcpqcfvebf.x,cskcxquc febcgqcwoqrtcScjf.bcnbecpsgc.qrocgq-.fx
rsgncjqgnbecfo.c.quosft”

“Eq.xf!”c esb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoftc.quosfc esjpqob.,cEfzujsnso
wosggb.cnspcheqrptcVuznsocpjsvb.crsgncvqkgxcpfe fpjt

“Xqucjfxcpbbckqecxquepbvk,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,”cnbcpfs.,c“rnbgnbecsgcsp
iqppshvbckqecupcgqcfaebbtcScnqibcoqrcgnfgcgnspclubpgsqocspcfgcfocbo.,
qo bcfo.ckqecfvvtcScrsvvcrsgn.efr,cgnfgcScjfxcoqgcnso.becgnbcivbfpuebp
qkckfjsvxcsogsjf x,cfo.cgnbc.sp uppsqocqkcpb ebgpt”cNbcaqgcuickeqjcnsp
 nfsecfo.cgqqwcnspcnfgtc“Hugcsocrsgn.efrsoa,cScyboguebcgqceblubpg
gnfgckqecgnbckuguebcScjfxchbcpifeb.cpsjsvfecjbbgsoap,cfo.,cpqcgq
pfx,c qjieqjspbptcScfiibfvcifegs uvfevxcgqcxqu,cnqoqueb.cIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyof,cqocgnspcpuhmb g,cgnbcjqebcfpcjxcvbggbecrfpcf..ebppb.cgq
xqucfo.cgqcoqcqobcbvpbt”

Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrfpcfcvsggvbcqkkbo.b.t

“Xqucpbbjcgqcgnsowcrbcfebc qjivbgbvxcuo.becxquecfugnqesgx,cIxqge
Ibgeqysg ntc.quosfcnfpcgqv.cxqucgnbcebfpqocxquec.bpsebcrfpc.spebafe.b.,
pnbcnf.cgnbchbpgcsogbogsqoptcFo.cso.bb.cxqucresgbcfpcgnquancxqucrbeb
vfxsoac qjjfo.pcuiqocjbtcFebcrbcgqc qops.becbybexc.bpsebcqkcxquepcfp
fc qjjfo.?cVbgcjbcgbvvcxqucqocgnbc qogefexcgnfgcxqucquangcgqcpnqr
ifegs uvfec.bvs f xcfo.c qops.befgsqockqecupcoqr,chb fupbcrbcnfybcgneqro
uicbybexgnsoa,cfo.cnfybc qjbcnbebcebvxsoacqocxqu,cfo.cpqcrbcfebcsocfox
 fpbcsocfcpbopbcsocxquecnfo.pt”

“Gnfgcspcoqgclusgbcgeub,cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,cbpib sfvvxcfgcgnb
iebpbogcjqjbog,crnbocgnbcobrpcnfpc qjbcqkcJfekfcIbgeqyof’pcvbaf x,crns n
pbbjpcso.bb.cybexcfieqiqp,cmu.asoackeqjcgnbcobrcgqobcxqucgfwbcgqcjb,”cnb
f..b.cpfe fpgs fvvxt

“Mu.asoackeqjcgnfgcebjfew,crbcjfxc begfsovxciebpujbcgnfgcxqucrbeb
eb wqosoacqocquecnbvivbppobpp,”c.quosfcqhpbeyb.cseesgfhvxt

“Hugcoqrcsocfoxc fpbcSc fooqgceb wqocqocsg,cfo.cScifegs uvfevxc.bpseb
oqgcgqcnso.becxquec.sp uppsqocqkcgnbcpb ebgcieqiqpfvpcqkcFewf.x
Syfoqysg ncPys.esafïvqy,crns ncnbcnfpcbogeupgb.cgqcxquecheqgnbecfo.
rns ncnfyb,cScibe bsyb,cfcaebfgcfo.ciqppshvxcfcybexcfaebbfhvbcsogbebpg
kqecxqut”

“Aqq.cnbfybop!”c esb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoft

Efzujsnsoc quv.coqgcpsgcpgsvvcqocnspc nfset

“Febo’gcxqucfpnfjb.coqr,cpspgbe?”cfpwb.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“Scfjcfpnfjb.,cEq.xf,”cpfs.c.quosftc“IxqgecIbgeqysg n,caqcfrfx,”cpnb
gueob.cgqcnsj,crnsgbcrsgncfoabet

IxqgecIbgeqysg ncnf.cfiifebogvxcoqgcfgcfvvcbdib gb.cpu ncfc qo vupsqot
Nbcnf.cgqqcju nc qoks.bo bcsocnsjpbvk,csocnspciqrbecfo.csocgnb
nbvivbppobppcqkcnspcys gsjptcNbc quv.coqgchbvsbybcsgcbybocoqrtcNbcgueob.
ifvb,cfo.cnspcvsipclusybeb.t

“Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,cskcScaqcqugcqkcgnspc.qqecoqr,cfkgbecpu ncf
.spjsppfv,cgnbo,cxqucjfxceb wqocqocsg,cScrsvvcobybec qjbchf wtc qops.be
rnfgcxqucfebc.qsoatcJxcrqe.cspcoqgcgqchbcpnfwbot”

“Rnfgcsopqvbo b!”c esb.c.quosf,cpiesoasoacuickeqjcnbecpbfgtc“Sc.qo’g
rfogcxqucgqc qjbchf wcfafsot”

“Rnfg!cPqcgnfg’pcnqrcsgcpgfo.p!”c esb.cVuznso,cuggbevxcuofhvbcgqcgnb
vfpgcjqjbogcgqchbvsbybcsocgnbceuiguebcfo.cpqc qjivbgbvxcgneqrocqugcqk
nspceb wqosoacoqrtc“Pqcgnfg’pcnqrcsgcpgfo.p!cHugc.qcxqucwoqr,cFy.qgxf
Eqjfoqyof,cgnfgcScjsangcieqgbpg?”

“Rnfgcesangcnfybcxqucgqcpibfwcgqcnbecvswbcgnfg?”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof
sogbeybob.cnqgvxtc“Fo.crnfgc focxqucieqgbpgcfhqug?cRnfgcesangpcnfybcxqu?
FjcScgqcasybcjxc.quosfcgqcfcjfocvswbcxqu?cAqcfrfx,cvbfybcupcfvgqabgnbe!
Rbcfebcgqchvfjbckqecnfysoacfaebb.cgqcfcreqoacf gsqo,cfo.cScfhqyb
fvvtttt”

“Hugcxqucnfybchquo.cjb,cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,”cVuznsocpgqejb.csocf
kebozx,c“hxcxquecieqjspb,cfo.coqrcxquc.boxcsgcfo.tttchbps.bptttcScnfyb
hbbocvb.cqocf  quogcqkcgnfgcsogqcbdibopbptttt”

Gnspcvfpgc qjivfsogcrfpcpqc nfef gbespgs cqkcIxqgecIbgeqysg n,cgnfg
Efpwqvoswqy,cifvbcrsgncfoabecfo.crsgncgnbcbkkqegcqkcebpgefsosoacsg,
 quv.coqgcnbvichebfwsoacsogqcvfuangbetcHugcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrfp
kuesqupt

“Bdibopbp?cRnfgcbdibopbp?cFebcxqucpibfwsoacqkcquecgeuow?cHugcgnb
 qo.u gqechequangcsgckqecoqgnsoackqecxqutcJbe xcqocup,crbcnfybchquo.
xqu!cRnfgcfebcxqucgnsowsoacfhqug,cIxqgecIbgeqysg n,csgcrfpcxquchquo.cup,
nfo.cfo.ckqqg,coqgcrb!”

“Boquan,cjqgnbe,coqcjqebcivbfpb,”cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcsjivqeb.tc“Ixqge
Ibgeqysg n,c.qchbcwso.cfo.caq!”

“Scfjcaqsoa,chugcqobcvfpgcrqe.,”cnbcpfs.,clusgbcuofhvbcgqc qogeqv
nsjpbvktc“XquecjfjjfcpbbjpcgqcnfybcbogsebvxckqeaqggbocgnfgcScjf.bcuicjx
jso.cgqcgfwbcxqu,cpqcgqcpibfw,cfkgbecgnbcaqppsicqkcgnbcgqrocnf.cpiebf.
fvvcqybecgnbc.spges gcsocebafe.cgqcxquecebiugfgsqotc.spebafe.soaciuhvs 
qisosqockqecxquecpfwbcfo.cebsopgfgsoacxquecebiugfgsqo,cSc begfsovx
jsangcybexcrbvvceb wqocqocfcksggsoacebgueo,cfo.cjsangcso.bb.cvqqwckqe
aefgsgu.bcqocxquecifegtcFo.cjxcbxbpcnfybcqovxcoqrchbbocqibob.!cScpbb
jxpbvkcgnfgcScjfxcnfybcf gb.cybex,cybexceb wvbppvxcsoc.spebafe.soacgnb
uosybepfvcybe.s gtttt”

“.qbpcgnbckbvvqrcrfogcnspcnbf.cpjfpnb.?”c esb.cEfzujsnso,cmujisoacuit

“Xqucfebcfcjbfocfo.cpisgbkuvcjfo!”c esb.c.quosft

“Oqgcfcrqe.!cOqgcfcjqybjbog!”c esb.cEfpwqvoswqy,cnqv.soacEfzujsnsochf w;
gnbocaqsoac vqpbcuicgqcVuznso,c“Wso.vxcvbfybcgnbceqqj!”cnbcpfs.clusbgvx
fo.c.spgso gvx,c“fo.coqgcfcrqe.cjqebcqettt”

IxqgecIbgeqysg ncafzb.cfgcnsjckqecpqjbcpb qo.pcrsgncfcifvbckf bcgnfg
rqewb.crsgncfoabe,cgnbocnbcgueob.,crbogcqug,cfo.cefebvxcnfpcfoxcjfo
 feesb.cfrfxcsocnspcnbfegcpu ncyso.s gsybcnfgeb.cfpcnbckbvgcfafsopg
EfpwqvoswqytcNsj,cfo.cnsjcfvqob,cnbchvfjb.ckqecbybexgnsoatcSgcsp
oqgbrqegnxcgnfgcfpcnbcrbogc.qropgfsepcnbcpgsvvcsjfasob.cgnfgcnspc fpb
rfpcibenfipcoqgcuggbevxcvqpg,cfo.cgnfg,cpqckfecfpcgnbcvf.sbpcrbeb
 qo beob.,cfvvcjsangc“ybexcrbvvcso.bb.”chbcpbgcesangcfafsot



 NFIGBEcSSS

Gnbckf gcrfpcgnfgcuicgqcgnbcvfpgcjqjbogcnbcnf.cobybecbdib gb.cpu ncfo
bo.soa;cnbcnf.chbbocqybehbfesoacgqcgnbcvfpgc.baebb,cobybec.ebfjsoacgnfg
grqc.bpgsgugbcfo.c.bkbo bvbppcrqjboc quv.cbp fibckeqjcnspc qogeqvtcGnsp
 qoys gsqocrfpcpgeboagnbob.chxcnspcyfosgxcfo.c qo bsg,cfc qo bsgcgq
gnbciqsogcqkckfgusgxtcIxqgecIbgeqysg n,crnqcnf.cjf.bcnspcrfxcuickeqj
sopsaosks fo b,crfpcjqehs.vxcasybocgqcpbvk-f.jsefgsqo,cnf.cgnbcnsanbpg
qisosqocqkcnspcsogbvvsabo bcfo.c fif sgsbp,cfo.cpqjbgsjbpcbybocavqfgb.
socpqvsgu.bcqybecnspcsjfabcsocgnbcavfpptcHugcrnfgcnbcvqyb.cfo.cyfvub.
fhqybcfvvcrfpcgnbcjqobxcnbcnf.cfjfppb.chxcnspcvfhque,cfo.chxcfvvcpqegp
qkc.bys bp:cgnfgcjqobxcjf.bcnsjcgnbcblufvcqkcfvvcrnqcnf.chbbocnsp
puibesqept

Rnbocnbcnf.chsggbevxcebjso.b.c.quosfcgnfgcnbcnf.c.b s.b.cgqcgfwbcnbecso
pisgbcqkcbysvcebiqeg,cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncnf.cpiqwbocrsgncibekb gcpso besgx
fo.cnf.,cso.bb.,ckbvgcabousobvxcso.saofogcfgcpu nc“hvf wcsoaefgsgu.bt”
cFo.cxbg,crnbocnbcjf.bc.quosfcnspcqkkbe,cnbcrfpckuvvxcfrfebcqkcgnb
aequo.vbppobppcqkcfvvcgnbcaqppsitcGnbcpgqexcnf.chbbocbybexrnbeb
 qogef.s gb.chxcJfekfcIbgeqyof,cfo.crfpchxcgnboc.sphbvsbyb.chxcfvvcgnb
gqropibqivb,crnqcrbebcrfejcsoc.quosf’fc.bkbo btcFo.cnbcrquv.coqgcnfyb
.bosb.cgnfgcnbcwobrcfvvcgnfgcfgcgnbcgsjbtcXbgcnbcpgsvvcgnquangcnsanvx
qkcnspcqrocebpqvugsqocsocvskgsoac.quosfcgqcnspcvbybvcfo.cebafe.b.csgcfp
pqjbgnsoacnbeqs tcSocpibfwsoacqkcsgcgqc.quosf,cnbcnf.cvbgcqugcgnbcpb ebg
kbbvsoacnbc nbespnb.cfo.cf.jseb.,cfo.cnbc quv.coqgcuo.bepgfo.cgnfg
qgnbepcpnquv.ckfsvcgqcf.jsebcsgcgqqtcNbcnf.c fvvb.cqocEfpwqvoswqycrsgn
gnbckbbvsoapcqkcfchbobkf gqecrnqcspcfhqugcgqcebficgnbckeusgpcqkcnspcaqq.
.bb.pcfo.cgqcnbfecfaebbfhvbckvfggbextcFo.cfpcnbcrbogc.qropgfsepcoqr,cnb
 qops.beb.cnsjpbvkcjqpgcuo.bpbeyb.vxcsomueb.cfo.cuoeb qaospb.t

.quosfcrfpcpsjivxcbppbogsfvcgqcnsj;cgqc.qcrsgnqugcnbecrfpcuognsowfhvbt
Kqecjfoxcxbfepcnbcnf.cnf.cyqvuiguqupc.ebfjpcqkcjfeesfab,chugcnbcnf.
aqobcqocrfsgsoacfo.cfjfppsoacjqobxtcNbcheqq.b.crsgncebvspn,csocieqkquo.
pb ebg,cqybecgnbcsjfabcqkcfcasev--yseguqup,ciqqec(pnbcjupgchbciqqe),
ybexcxquoa,cybexciebggx,cqkcaqq.chsegncfo.cb.u fgsqo,cybexcgsjs.,cqob
rnqcnf.cpukkbeb.cju n,cfo.crfpc qjivbgbvxcnujhvb.chbkqebcnsj,cqobcrnq
rquv.cfvvcnbecvskbcvqqwcqocnsjcfpcnbecpfysque,crqepnsicnsj,cf.jsebcnsj
fo.cqovxcnsjtcNqrcjfoxcp bobp,cnqrcjfoxcfjqequpcbispq.bpcnbcnf.csjfasob.
qocgnspcpb.u gsybcfo.civfxkuvcgnbjb,crnbocnspcrqewcrfpcqybe!cFo.,
hbnqv.,cgnbc.ebfjcqkcpqcjfoxcxbfepcrfpcfvvchugcebfvspb.;cgnbchbfugxcfo.
b.u fgsqocqkcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcnf.csjiebppb.cnsj;cnbecnbvivbppciqpsgsqo
nf.chbbocfcaebfgcfvvuebjbog;csocnbecnbcnf.ckquo.cbybocjqebcgnfocnb
.ebfjb.cqktcNbebcrfpcfcasevcqkcies.b,c nfef gbe,cysegub,cqkcb.u fgsqo
fo.chebb.soacpuibesqecgqcnspcqroc(nbckbvgcgnfg),cfo.cgnspc ebfguebcrquv.
hbcpvfyspnvxcaefgbkuvcfvvcnbecvskbckqecnspcnbeqs c qo.bp bopsqo,cfo.
rquv.cnujhvbcnbepbvkcsocgnbc.upgchbkqebcnsj,cfo.cnbcrquv.cnfybcfhpqvugb,
uohquo.b.ciqrbecqybecnbe!tttcOqgcvqoachbkqeb,cnbcnf.,cgqq,cfkgbecvqoa
ebkvb gsqocfo.cnbpsgfgsqo,cjf.bcfocsjiqegfogc nfoabcsocnspc febbecfo.
rfpcoqrcbogbesoacqocfcrs.bec se vbcqkchupsobpptcRsgncgnspc nfoabcnsp
 nbespnb.c.ebfjpcqkcespsoacsogqcfcnsanbec vfppcqkcpq sbgxcpbbjb.cvswbvx
gqchbcebfvspb.ttttcNbcrfp,csockf g,c.bgbejsob.cgqcgexcnspckqeguob
socIbgbephueatcNbcwobrcgnfgcrqjboc quv.c.qcfcybexcaebfgc.bfvtcGnb
kfp sofgsqocqkcfc nfejsoa,cyseguqup,cnsanvxcb.u fgb.crqjfocjsangcjfwb
nspcrfxcbfpsbe,cjsangc.qcrqo.bepcsocfggef gsoacibqivbcgqcnsj,cgneqrsoa
focfuebqvbcequo.cnsj,cfo.coqrcbybexgnsoacrfpcsoceusop!cGnspcpu..bo
nqeeshvbceuiguebcfkkb gb.cnsjcvswbcfc vficqkcgnuo.be;csgcrfpcvswbcf
ns.bqupcmqwb,cfocfhpue.sgxtcNbcnf.cqovxchbbocfcgsoxchsgcjfpgbekuv,
nf.coqgcbybocgsjbcgqcpibfwcqug,cnf.cpsjivxcjf.bcfcmqwb,chbboc feesb.
frfx--fo.csgcnf.cbo.b.cpqcpbesqupvxtcFo.,cqkc quepb,cgqq,cnbc.s.cvqyb
.quosfcsocnspcqrocrfx;cnbcfvebf.xciqppbppb.cnbecsocnspc.ebfjp--fo.cfvv
fgcqo b!cOq!cGnbcobdgc.fx,cgnbcybexcobdgc.fx,csgcjupgcfvvchbcpbgcesang,
pjqqgnb.cqybe,cpbggvb.tcFhqybcfvvcnbcjupgc eupncgnfgc qo bsgb.cjsvwpqi
rnqcrfpcgnbc fupbcqkcsgcfvvtcRsgncfcps wckbbvsoacnbc quv.coqgcnbvi
eb fvvsoacEfzujsnsocgqq,chug,cnbcpqqocebfppueb.cnsjpbvkcqocgnfgcp qeb;
fpcgnquancfckbvvqrcvswbcgnfgc quv.chbciugcqocfcvbybvcrsgncnsj!cGnbcjfo
nbcebfvvxc.ebf.b.csocbfeobpgcrfpcPys.esafïvqyttttcNbcnf.,csocpnqeg,cf
aebfgc.bfvcgqcfggbo.cgqtttt

*****

“Oq,cS,cScfjcjqebcgqchvfjbcgnfocfoxqob!”cpfs.c.quosf,cwsppsoacfo.
bjhef soacnbecjqgnbetc“Scrfpcgbjigb.chxcnspcjqobx,chugcqocjxcnqoque,
heqgnbe,cScnf.coqcs.bfcnbcrfpcpu ncfchfpbcjfotcSkcScnf.cpbbocgnequancnsj
hbkqeb,coqgnsoacrquv.cnfybcgbjigb.cjb!c.qo’gchvfjbcjb,cheqgnbe!”

“Aq.cnfpc.bvsybeb.cup!cAq.cnfpc.bvsybeb.cup!”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof
juggbeb.,chugcnfvkc qop squpvx,cfpcgnquancp fe bvxcfhvbcgqcebfvspbcrnfg
nf.cnfiibob.t

Gnbxcrbebcfvvcebvsbyb.,cfo.csocksybcjsougbpcgnbxcrbebcvfuansoatcQovxcoqr
fo.cgnboc.quosfcgueob.crnsgbcfo.ckeqrob.,cebjbjhbesoacrnfgcnf.cifppb.t
Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrfpcpueiespb.cgqckso.cgnfgcpnb,cgqq,crfpcavf.:
pnbcnf.cqovxcgnfgcjqeosoacgnquangceuiguebcrsgncVuznsocfcgbeeshvb
jspkqeguobtcEfzujsnsocrfpc.bvsangb.tcNbc.s.coqgcxbgc.febcgqcbdiebppcnsp
mqxckuvvx,chugcnbcrfpcsocfckbybecqkcbd sgbjbogcfpcgnquancfcgqo-rbsang
nf.ckfvvbocqkkcnspcnbfegtcOqrcnbcnf.cgnbcesangcgqc.byqgbcnspcvskbcgq
gnbj,cgqcpbeybcgnbjttttcFoxgnsoacjsangcnfiibocoqr!cHugcnbckbvgcfkefs.cgq
gnsowcqkckuegnbeciqppshsvsgsbpcfo.c.feb.coqgcvbgcnspcsjfasofgsqo
efoabtcHugcEfpwqvoswqycpfgcpgsvvcsocgnbcpfjbcivf b,cfvjqpgcpuvvbocfo.
so.skkbebogtcGnquancnbcnf.chbbocgnbcjqpgcsopspgbogcqocabggsoaces.cqk
Vuznso,cnbcpbbjb.coqrcgnbcvbfpgc qo beob.cfgcrnfgcnf.cnfiibob.tc.quosf
 quv.coqgcnbvicgnsowsoacgnfgcnbcrfpcpgsvvcfoaexcrsgncnbe,cfo.cIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyofcrfg nb.cnsjcgsjs.vxt

“Rnfgc.s.cPys.esafïvqycpfxcgqcxqu?”cpfs.c.quosf,cfiieqf nsoacnsjt

“Xbp,cxbp!”c esb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoft

Efpwqvoswqycefspb.cnspcnbf.t

“Nbcrfogpcgqcjfwbcxqucfciebpbogcqkcgbocgnqupfo.cequhvbpcfo.cnbc.bpsebp
gqcpbbcxqucqo bcsocjxciebpbo bt”

“Pbbcnbe!cQocoqcf  quog!”c esb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoftc“Fo.cnqrc.febcnb
qkkbecnbecjqobx!”

GnbocEfpwqvoswqycebibfgb.c(efgnbec.exvx)cnspc qoybepfgsqocrsgn
Pys.esafïvqy,cqjsggsoacnspcf  quogcqkcgnbcanqpgvxcyspsgfgsqopcqkcJfekf
Ibgeqyof,crspnsoacgqcfyqs.cfvvcuoob bppfexcgfvwt

“Rnfgcfoprbec.s.cxqucasybcnsj?”cfpwb.c.quosft

“FgcksepgcScpfs.cScrquv.coqgcgfwbcfoxcjbppfabcgqcxqutcGnbocnbcpfs.cgnfg
nbcrquv.c.qcnspcugjqpgcgqcqhgfsocfocsogbeysbrcrsgncxqucrsgnqugcjxcnbvit
Nbcfppueb.cjbcgnfgcnspcifppsqockqecxqucrfpcfcifppsoacsokfgufgsqo,coqrcnb
nfpcoqckbbvsoackqecxqutcNbc.qbpo’gcrfogcxqucgqcjfeexcVuznsottttcNspcgfvw
rfpcfvgqabgnbecefgnbecju..vb.t”

“Nqrc.qcxqucbdivfsocnsjcgqcxquepbvk,cEq.xf?cNqrc.s.cnbcpgeswbcxqu?”

“Scjupgc qokbppcSc.qo’gclusgbcuo.bepgfo.cnsjtcNbcqkkbepcxqucgbo
gnqupfo.,cfo.cxbgcpfxpcnbcspcoqgcrbvvcqkktcNbcpfxpcnbcspcaqsoacfrfx,cfo.
socgbocjsougbpcnbckqeabgpcnbcnfpcpfs.csgtcGnbocnbcpfxpcnbcspcaqsoacgqchb
jfeesb.cfo.cnfpcfvebf.xcksdb.cqocgnbcasevttttcOqc.quhgcnbcnfpcfcjqgsyb,
fo.cieqhfhvxcfchf.cqobtcHugcsg’pcq..cgnfgcnbcpnquv.chbcpqc vujpxcfhqug
sgcskcnbcnf.cfoxc.bpsaopcfafsopgcxquttttcQkc quepb,cScebkupb.cgnsp
jqobxcqocxquecf  quog,cqo bckqecfvvtcFvgqabgnbe,cScgnquangcnsjcybex
pgefoabttttcQobcjsangcfvjqpgcgnsowcnbcrfpcjf.tcHugcScjfxchbcjspgfwbo;
gnfgcjfxcqovxchbcgnbcifegcnbcfppujbptcGnbc.bfgncqkcJfekfcIbgeqyofcpbbjp
gqcnfybcjf.bcfcaebfgcsjiebppsqocqocnsjt”

“Aq.cebpgcnbecpquv,”cbd vfsjb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoftc“Scpnfvvcfvrfxp,
fvrfxpciefxckqecnbe!cRnbebcpnquv.crbchbcoqr,c.quosf,crsgnqugcgnspcgnebb
gnqupfo.!cSg’pcfpcgnquancsgcnf.ckfvvbockeqjcnbfybo!cRnx,cEq.xf,cgnsp
jqeosoacrbcnf.cqovxcgnebbcequhvbpcsocqueciq wbgcfo.c.quosfcfo.cScrbeb
mupgcivfoosoacgqcifrocnbecrfg n,cpqcfpcgqcfyqs.chqeeqrsoackeqjcgnfgcjfo
uogsvcnbcqkkbeb.cnbvit”

.quosfcpbbjb.cpgefoabvxcsjiebppb.chxcPys.esafïvqy’pcqkkbetcPnbcpgsvv
pgqq.cjb.sgfgsoat

“Nbcnfpcaqgcpqjbcgbeeshvbcivfo,”cpnbcpfs.csocfcnfvkcrnspibecgqcnbepbvk,
fvjqpgcpnu..besoat

Efpwqvoswqycoqgs b.cgnspc.spieqiqegsqofgbcgbeeqet

“Sckfo xcScpnfvvcnfybcgqcpbbcnsjcjqebcgnfocqo bcfafso,”cnbcpfs.cgq
.quosft

“Rbcrsvvcrfg ncnsj!cScrsvvcgef wcnsjcqug!”c esb.cEfzujsnso,cysaqequpvxt
“Scrqo’gcvqpbcpsangcqkcnsjtcEq.xfcnfpcasybocjbcvbfybtcNbcpfs.cgqcjb
nsjpbvkcmupgcoqrtc‘Gfwbc febcqkcjxcpspgbet’cRsvvcxqucasybcjbcvbfyb,cgqq,
Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof?”

.quosfcpjsvb.cfo.cnbv.cqugcnbecnfo.,chugcgnbcvqqwcqkcfodsbgxc.s.coqg
vbfybcnbeckf btcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcafzb.cfgcnbecgsjs.vx,chugcgnb
gnebbcgnqupfo.cequhvbpcnf.cqhysqupvxcfcpqqgnsoacbkkb gcqocnbet

Fclufegbecqkcfocnquecvfgbe,cgnbxcrbebcfvvcboafab.csocfcvsybvx
 qoybepfgsqotcBybocEfpwqvoswqycvspgbob.cfggbogsybvxckqecpqjbcgsjb,
gnquancnbc.s.coqgcgfvwtcEfzujsnsocrfpcgnbcpibfwbet

“Fo.crnx,crnxcpnquv.cxqucaqcfrfx?”cnbckvqrb.cqocb pgfgs fvvxtc“Fo.crnfg
febcxqucgqc.qcsocfcvsggvbcgqro?cGnbcaebfgcgnsoacsp,cxqucfebcfvvcnbeb
gqabgnbecfo.cxqucobb.cqobcfoqgnbe--xquc.qcobb.cqobcfoqgnbe,chbvsbybcjbt
Kqecfcgsjb,cfoxrfxttttcGfwbcjbcsogqcifegobepnsi,cfo.cScfppuebcxqucrb’vv
ivfocfc fisgfvcbogbeiespbtcVspgbo!cS’vvcbdivfsocsgcfvvcsoc.bgfsvcgq
xqu,cgnbcrnqvbcieqmb g!cSgcfvvckvfpnb.csogqcjxcnbf.cgnspcjqeosoa,
hbkqebcfoxgnsoacnf.cnfiibob.tttcScgbvvcxqucrnfg;cScnfybcfocuo vb,cScjupg
sogeq.u bcnsjcgqcxquc(fcjqpgcf  qjjq.fgsoacfo.cebpib gfhvbcqv.cjfo)t
Gnspcuo vbcnfpcaqgcfc fisgfvcqkcfcgnqupfo.cequhvbp,cfo.cnbcvsybpcqocnsp
ibopsqocfo.cnfpcoqcobb.cqkcgnfgcjqobxtcKqecgnbcvfpgcgrqcxbfepcnbcnfp
hbbochqgnbesoacjbcgqchqeeqrcsgckeqjcnsjcfo.cifxcnsjcpsdcibec bogt
sogbebpgtcScwoqrcrnfgcgnfgcjbfop;cnbcpsjivxcrfogpcgqcnbvicjbtcVfpgcxbfe
Scnf.coqcobb.cqkcsg,chugcgnspcxbfecScebpqvyb.cgqchqeeqrcsgcfpcpqqocfp
nbcfeesyb.tcGnbocxqucvbo.cjbcfoqgnbecgnqupfo.cqkcxquecgnebbcfo.crbcnfyb
boquanckqecfcpgfeg,cpqcrb’vvcaqcsogqcifegobepnsi,cfo.crnfgcfebcrbcaqsoa
gqc.q?”

GnbocEfzujsnsochbafocgqcuokqv.cnspcieqmb g,cfo.cnbcbdivfsob.cfgcvboagn
gnfgcfvjqpgcfvvcqueciuhvspnbepcfo.chqqwpbvvbepcwoqrcoqgnsoacfgcfvv
qkcrnfgcgnbxcfebcpbvvsoa,cfo.ckqecgnfgcebfpqocgnbxcfebcupufvvxchf.
iuhvspnbep,cfo.cgnfgcfoxc.b bogciuhvs fgsqopcifxcfpcfceuvbcfo.casyb
fcieqksg,cpqjbgsjbpcfc qops.befhvbcqobtcEfzujsnsocnf.,cso.bb.,chbbo
.ebfjsoacqkcpbggsoacuicfpcfciuhvspnbetcKqecgnbcvfpgcgrqcxbfepcnbcnf.
hbbocrqewsoacsociuhvspnbep’cqkks bp,cfo.cwobrcgnebbcBueqibfocvfoaufabp
rbvv,cgnquancnbcnf.cgqv.cEfpwqvoswqycpsdc.fxpchbkqebcgnfgcnbcrfp
“p nrf n”csocAbejfocrsgncfocqhmb gcqkcibepuf.soacnsjcgqcgfwbcnfvkcnsp
gefopvfgsqocfo.cnfvkcgnbcifxjbogckqecsgtcNbcnf.cgqv.cfcvsbcgnbo,cfo.
Efpwqvoswqycwobrcnbcrfpcvxsoat

“Rnx,crnxcpnquv.crbcvbgcquec nfo bcpvsicrnbocrbcnfybcqobcqkcgnbc nsbk
jbfopcqkcpu  bpp--jqobxcqkcquecqro!”c esb.cEfzujsnsocrfejvxtc“Qkc quepb
gnbebcrsvvchbcfcvqgcqkcrqew,chugcrbcrsvvcrqew,cxqu,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,
S,cEq.sqottttcXqucabgcfcpivbo.s.cieqksgcqocpqjbchqqwpcoqrf.fxp!cFo.
gnbcaebfgciqsogcqkcgnbchupsobppcspcgnfgcrbcpnfvvcwoqrcmupgcrnfgcrfogp
gefopvfgsoa,cfo.crbcpnfvvchbcgefopvfgsoa,ciuhvspnsoa,cvbfeosoacfvvcfg
qo btcSc fochbcqkcupbchb fupbcScnfybcbdibesbo btcKqecobfevxcgrqcxbfep
S’ybchbbocp uggvsoacfhqugcfjqoacgnbciuhvspnbep,cfo.coqrcScwoqrcbybex
.bgfsvcqkcgnbsechupsobpptcXqucobb.coqgchbcfcpfsogcgqcjfwbciqgp,chbvsbyb
jb!cFo.crnx,crnxcpnquv.crbcvbgcquec nfo bcpvsi!cRnx,cScwoqr--fo.cScwbig
gnbcpb ebg--grqcqecgnebbchqqwpcrns ncqobcjsangcabgcfcnuo.eb.cequhvbp
psjivxckqecgnsowsoacqkcgefopvfgsoacfo.ciuhvspnsoatcSo.bb.,cfo.cScrquv.
oqgcgfwbcksybcnuo.eb.ckqecgnbcybexcs.bfcqkcqobcqkcgnbjtcFo.crnfgc.qcxqu
gnsow?cSkcScrbebcgqcgbvvcfciuhvspnbe,cSc.febcpfxcnb’.cnbpsgfgb--gnbxcfeb
pu nchvq wnbf.p!cFo.cfpckqecgnbchupsobppcps.b,ciesogsoa,cifibe,cpbvvsoa,
xqucgeupgcgqcjb,cScwoqrcjxcrfxcfhqugtcRb’vvchbasocsocfcpjfvvcrfxcfo.caq
qocgqcfcvfeabtcSocfoxc fpbcsgcrsvvcabgcupcquecvsysoacfo.crbcpnfvvcabg
hf wcquec fisgfvt”

.quosf’pcbxbpcpnqobt

“Scvswbcrnfgcxqucfebcpfxsoa,c.jsgescIeqwqksg n!”cpnbcpfs.t

“Scwoqrcoqgnsoacfhqugcsg,cqkc quepb,”ciugcsocIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof,
“sgcjfxchbcfcaqq.cs.bf,chugcfafsocAq.cwoqrptcSg’pcobrcfo.cuogesb.tcQk
 quepb,crbcjupgcebjfsocnbebcfgcvbfpgckqecfcgsjbt”cPnbcvqqwb.cfgcEq.xft

“Rnfgc.qcxqucgnsow,cheqgnbe?”cpfs.c.quosft

“Scgnsowcnb’pcaqgcfcybexcaqq.cs.bf,”cnbcfoprbeb.tc“Qkc quepb,csg’pcgqq
pqqocgqc.ebfjcqkcfciuhvspnsoacksej,chugcrbc begfsovxcjsangchesoacqug
ksybcqecpsdchqqwpcfo.chbcpuebcqkcpu  bpptcScwoqrcqkcqobchqqwcjxpbvk
rns ncrquv.chbcpuebcgqcaqcrbvvtcFo.cfpckqecnspchbsoacfhvbcgqcjfofabcsg,
gnbeb’pcoqc.quhgcfhqugcgnfgcbsgnbetcNbcwoqrpcgnbchupsobppttttcHugcrbc fo
gfvwcsgcqybecvfgbetttt”

“Nueefn!”c esb.cEfzujsnsotc“Oqr,cpgfx,cgnbeb’pcfckvfgcnbebcsocgnsp
nqupb,chbvqoasoacgqcgnbcpfjbcqrobetcSg’pcfcpib sfvckvfgcfifeg,coqg
 qjjuos fgsoacrsgncgnbpbcvq.asoaptcSg’pckueospnb.,cebogcjq.befgb,
gnebbceqqjptcPuiiqpbcxqucgfwbcgnbjcgqchbasocrsgntcS’vvcifrocxquecrfg n
gq-jqeeqrcfo.chesoacxqucgnbcjqobx,cfo.cbybexgnsoac fochbcfeefoab.cgnbot
Xquc focfvvcgnebbcvsybcgqabgnbe,cfo.cEq.xfcrsvvchbcrsgncxqutcHugcrnbeb
febcxqucqkkcgq,cEq.xf?”

“Rnfg,cEq.xf,cxqucfebcaqsoacfvebf.x?”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcfpwb.cso
.spjfxt

“Fgcpu ncfcjsougb?”c esb.cEfzujsnsot

.quosfcvqqwb.cfgcnbecheqgnbecrsgncso eb.uvqupcrqo.betcNbcnbv.cnspc ficso
nspcnfo.,cnbcrfpciebifesoacgqcvbfybcgnbjt

“Qobcrquv.cgnsowcxqucrbebchuexsoacjbcqecpfxsoacaqq.-hxbckqecbybe,”cnb
pfs.cpqjbrnfgcq..vxtcNbcfggbjigb.cgqcpjsvb,chugcsgc.s.coqgcgueocqugcf
pjsvbtc“Hugcrnqcwoqrp,cibenfipcsgcspcgnbcvfpgcgsjbcrbcpnfvvcpbbcbf n
qgnbettt”cnbcvbgcpvsicf  s.bogfvvxtcSgcrfpcrnfgcnbcrfpcgnsowsoa,cfo.csg
pqjbnqrcrfpcuggbeb.cfvqu.t

“Rnfgcspcgnbcjfggbecrsgncxqu?”c esb.cnspcjqgnbet

“Rnbebcfebcxqucaqsoa,cEq.xf?”cfpwb.c.quosfcefgnbecpgefoabvxt

“Qn,cS’jclusgbcqhvsab.cgqttt”cnbcfoprbeb.cyfaubvx,cfpcgnquancnbpsgfgsoa
rnfgcnbcrquv.cpfxtcHugcgnbebcrfpcfcvqqwcqkcpnfeic.bgbejsofgsqocsocnsp
rnsgbckf bt

“ScjbfogcgqcpfxtttcfpcScrfpc qjsoacnbebtttcScjbfogcgqcgbvvcxqu,cjqgnbe,
fo.cxqu,c.quosf,cgnfgcsgcrquv.chbchbggbeckqecupcgqcifegckqecfcgsjbtcS
kbbvcsvv,cScfjcoqgcfgcibf bttttcScrsvvc qjbcfkgberfe.p,cScrsvvc qjbcqk
jxpbvktttcrnbocsg’pciqppshvbtcScebjbjhbecxqucfo.cvqybcxquttttcVbfybcjb,
vbfybcjbcfvqobtcSc.b s.b.cgnspcbybochbkqebtttcS’jcfhpqvugbvxcebpqvyb.cqo
sgtcRnfgbybecjfxc qjbcgqcjb,crnbgnbecSc qjbcgqceusocqecoqg,cScrfogcgqchb
fvqobtcKqeabgcjbcfvgqabgnbe,csg’pchbggbetc.qo’gcsolusebcfhqugcjbtcRnbo
Sc fo,cS’vvc qjbcqkcjxpbvkcqetttcS’vvcpbo.ckqecxqutcIbenfipcsgcrsvvcfvv
 qjbchf w,chugcoqrcskcxqucvqybcjb,casybcjbcuitttcbvpbcScpnfvvchbasocgq
nfgbcxqu,cSckbbvcsgttttcAqq.-hxb!”

“Aqq.cAq.!”c esb.cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyoftcHqgncnspcjqgnbecfo.cnspcpspgbe
rbebcgbeeshvxcfvfejb.tcEfzujsnsocrfpcfvpqt

“Eq.xf,cEq.xf,chbceb qo svb.crsgncup!cVbgcupchbcfpchbkqeb!”c esb.cnsp
iqqecjqgnbet

Nbcgueob.cpvqrvxcgqcgnbc.qqecfo.cpvqrvxcrbogcqugcqkcgnbceqqjtc.quosf
qybegqqwcnsjt

“Heqgnbe,crnfgcfebcxquc.qsoacgqcjqgnbe?”cpnbcrnspibeb.,cnbecbxbp
kvfpnsoacrsgncso.saofgsqot

Nbcvqqwb.c.uvvxcfgcnbet

“Oqcjfggbe,cScpnfvvc qjbttttcS’jc qjsoa,”cnbcjuggbeb.csocfocuo.begqob,
fpcgnquancoqgckuvvxc qop squpcqkcrnfgcnbcrfpcpfxsoa,cfo.cnbcrbogcqugcqk
gnbceqqjt

“Rs wb.,cnbfegvbppcbaqspg!”c esb.c.quosft

“Nbcspcsopfob,chugcoqgcnbfegvbpptcNbcspcjf.!c.qo’gcxqucpbbcsg?cXqu’eb
nbfegvbppcfkgbecgnfg!”cEfzujsnsocrnspibeb.csocnbecbfe,cplubbzsoa
nbecnfo.cgsangvxtc“Scpnfvvchbchf wc.seb gvx,”cnbcpnqugb.cgqcgnb
nqeeqe-pges wbocjqgnbe,cfo.cnbcefocqugcqkcgnbceqqjt

Efpwqvoswqycrfpcrfsgsoackqecnsjcfgcgnbcbo.cqkcgnbcifppfabt

“Scwobrcxqucrquv.ceuocfkgbecjb,”cnbcpfs.tc“Aqchf wcgqcgnbj--hbcrsgn
gnbjtttchbcrsgncgnbjcgq-jqeeqrcfo.cfvrfxpttttcStttcibenfipcScpnfvv
 qjbtttcskcSc fotcAqq.-hxbt”

Fo.crsgnqugcnqv.soacqugcnspcnfo.cnbcrfvwb.cfrfxt

“Hugcrnbebcfebcxqucaqsoa?cRnfgcfebcxquc.qsoa?cRnfg’pcgnbcjfggbecrsgn
xqu?cNqrc focxqucaqcqocvswbcgnsp?”cEfzujsnsocjuggbeb.,cfgcnspcrsgp’cbo.t

Efpwqvoswqycpgqiib.cqo bcjqebt

“Qo bckqecfvv,cobybecfpwcjbcfhqugcfoxgnsoatcScnfybcoqgnsoacgqcgbvvcxqut
.qo’gc qjbcgqcpbbcjbtcJfxhbcS’vvc qjbcnbebttttcVbfybcjb,chugc_.qo’g
vbfyb_cgnbjtc.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.cjb?”

Sgcrfpc.fewcsocgnbc qees.qe,cgnbxcrbebcpgfo.soacobfecgnbcvfjitcKqecf
jsougbcgnbxcrbebcvqqwsoacfgcqobcfoqgnbecsocpsvbo btcEfzujsnsocebjbjhbeb.
gnfgcjsougbcfvvcnspcvskbtcEfpwqvoswqy’pchueosoacfo.csogbogcbxbp
aebrcjqebcibobgefgsoacbybexcjqjbog,cisbe soacsogqcnspcpquv,csogqcnsp
 qop squpobpptcPu..bovxcEfzujsnsocpgfegb.tcPqjbgnsoacpgefoab,cfpcsg
rbeb,cifppb.chbgrbbocgnbjttttcPqjbcs.bf,cpqjbcnsog,cfpcsgcrbeb,cpvsiib.,
pqjbgnsoacfrkuv,cns.bqup,cfo.cpu..bovxcuo.bepgqq.cqochqgncps.bptttt
Efzujsnsocgueob.cifvbt

“.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.coqr?”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,cnspckf bcgrsg nsoacobeyqupvxt
“Aqchf w,caqcgqcgnbj,”cnbcpfs.cpu..bovx,cfo.cgueosoaclus wvx,cnbcrbog
qugcqkcgnbcnqupbt

Scrsvvcoqgcfggbjigcgqc.bp eshbcnqrcEfzujsnsocrbogchf wcgqcgnbcvf.sbp,
nqrcnbcpqqgnb.cgnbj,cnqrcnbcieqgbpgb.cgnfgcEq.xfcobb.b.cebpgcsocnsp
svvobpp,cieqgbpgb.cgnfgcEq.xfcrfpcpuebcgqc qjb,cgnfgcnbcrquv.c qjbcbybex
.fx,cgnfgcnbcrfpcybex,cybexcju ncuipbg,cgnfgcnbcjupgcoqgchbcseesgfgb.,
gnfgcnb,cEfzujsnso,crquv.crfg ncqybecnsj,crquv.cabgcnsjcfc.q gqe,cgnb
hbpgc.q gqe,cfc qopuvgfgsqottttcSockf gckeqjcgnfgcbybosoacEfzujsnsocgqqw
nspcivf bcrsgncgnbjcfpcfcpqocfo.cfcheqgnbet



 NFIGBEcSY

Efpwqvoswqycrbogcpgefsangcgqcgnbcnqupbcqocgnbc fofvchfowcrnbebcPqosf
vsyb.tcSgcrfpcfocqv.caebbocnqupbcqkcgnebbcpgqebxptcNbckquo.cgnb
iqegbecfo.cqhgfsob.ckeqjcnsjcyfaubc.seb gsqopcfpcgqcgnbcrnbebfhqugpcqk
Wfibeofujqy,cgnbcgfsvqetcNfysoackquo.csocgnbc qeobecqkcgnbc quegxfe.
gnbcbogefo bcgqcgnbc.fewcfo.cofeeqrcpgfse fpb,cnbcjquogb.cgqcgnbcpb qo.
kvqqecfo.c fjbcqugcsogqcfcafvvbexcgnfgcefocequo.cgnbcrnqvbcpb qo.cpgqebx
qybecgnbcxfe.tcRnsvbcnbcrfpcrfo.besoacsocgnbc.fewobpp,cuo begfsocrnbeb
gqcgueockqecWfibeofujqy’pc.qqe,cfc.qqecqibob.cgnebbcif bpckeqjcnsj;cnb
jb nfos fvvxcgqqwcnqv.cqkcsgt

“Rnqcspcgnbeb?”cfcrqjfo’pcyqs bcfpwb.cuobfpsvxt

“Sg’pcStttc qjbcgqcpbbcxqu,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqycfo.cnbcrfvwb.csogqcgnb
gsoxcbogext

Qocfcheqwboc nfsecpgqq.cfc fo.vbcsocfchfggbeb.c qiibec fo.vbpgs wt

“Sg’pcxqu!cAqq.cnbfybop!”c esb.cPqosfcrbfwvx,cfo.cpnbcpgqq.ceqqgb.cgq
gnbcpiqgt

“Rns ncspcxqueceqqj?cGnspcrfx?”cfo.cEfpwqvoswqy,cgexsoacoqgcgqcvqqwcfg
nbe,cnfpgbob.csot

FcjsougbcvfgbecPqosf,cgqq,c fjbcsocrsgncgnbc fo.vb,cpbgc.qrocgnb
 fo.vbpgs wcfo.,c qjivbgbvxc.sp qo begb.,cpgqq.chbkqebcnsjcsobdiebppshvx
fasgfgb.cfo.cfiifebogvxckesangbob.chxcnspcuobdib gb.cyspsgtcGnbc qvque
eupnb.cpu..bovxcgqcnbecifvbckf bcfo.cgbfepc fjbcsogqcnbecbxbptttcPnb
kbvgcps wcfo.cfpnfjb.cfo.cnfiix,cgqqttttcEfpwqvoswqycgueob.cfrfxclus wvx
fo.cpfgcqocfc nfsechxcgnbcgfhvbtcNbcp foob.cgnbceqqjcsocfcefis.cavfo bt

Sgcrfpcfcvfeabchugcbd bb.soavxcvqr-isg nb.ceqqj,cgnbcqovxcqobcvbgchxcgnb
Wfibeofujqyp,cgqcrnqpbceqqjpcfc vqpb.c.qqecvb.csocgnbcrfvvcqocgnbcvbkgt
Socgnbcqiiqpsgbcps.bcqocgnbcesangcnfo.crfvvcrfpcfoqgnbec.qqe,cfvrfxp
wbigcvq wb.tcGnfgcvb.cgqcgnbcobdgckvfg,crns nckqejb.cfcpbifefgbcvq.asoat
Pqosf’pceqqjcvqqwb.cvswbcfchfeo;csgcrfpcfcybexcseebauvfecluf.efoavbcfo.
gnspcafybcsgcfcaeqgbplubcfiibfefo btcFcrfvvcrsgncgnebbcrso.qrpcvqqwsoa
qugcqocgqcgnbc fofvcefocfpvfogcpqcgnfgcqobc qeobeckqejb.cfcybexcf ugb
foavb,cfo.csgcrfpc.skks uvgcgqcpbbcsocsgcrsgnqugcybexcpgeqoacvsangt
Gnbcqgnbec qeobecrfpc.spieqiqegsqofgbvxcqhgupbtcGnbebcrfpcp fe bvxcfox
kueosguebcsocgnbchsaceqqj:csocgnbc qeobecqocgnbcesangcrfpcfchb.pgbf.,
hbps.bcsg,cobfebpgcgnbc.qqe,cfc nfsetcFcivfso,c.bfvcgfhvbc qybeb.chxcf
hvubc vqgncpgqq.cfafsopgcgnbcpfjbcrfvv,c vqpbcgqcgnbc.qqecsogqcgnbcqgnbe
kvfgtcGrqceupn-hqggqjc nfsepcpgqq.chxcgnbcgfhvbtcQocgnbcqiiqpsgb
rfvvcobfecgnbcf ugbcfoavbcpgqq.cfcpjfvvcivfsocrqq.boc nbpgcqkc.efrbep
vqqwsoa,cfpcsgcrbeb,cvqpgcsocfc.bpbegtcGnfgcrfpcfvvcgnbebcrfpcsocgnb
eqqjtcGnbcxbvvqr,cp efg nb.cfo.cpnfhhxcrfvv-ifibecrfpchvf wcsocgnb
 qeobeptcSgcjupgcnfybchbboc.fjicfo.ckuvvcqkckujbpcsocgnbcrsogbetcGnbeb
rfpcbybexcpsaocqkciqybegx;cbybocgnbchb.pgbf.cnf.coqc uegfsot

Pqosfcvqqwb.csocpsvbo bcfgcnbecyspsgqe,crnqcrfpcpqcfggbogsybvxcfo.
uo bebjqosqupvxcp eugsospsoacnbeceqqj,cfo.cbybochbafocfgcvfpgcgqcgebjhvb
rsgncgbeeqe,cfpcgnquancpnbcrfpcpgfo.soachbkqebcnbecmu.abcfo.cgnbcfehsgbe
qkcnbec.bpgsosbpt

“ScfjcvfgbttttcSg’pcbvbybo,cspo’gcsg?”cnbcfpwb.,cpgsvvcoqgcvskgsoacnsp
bxbpt

“Xbp,”cjuggbeb.cPqosf,c“qncxbp,csgcsp,”cpnbcf..b.,cnfpgsvx,cfpcgnquancso
gnfgcvfxcnbecjbfopcqkcbp fibtc“Jxcvfo.vf.x’pc vq wcnfpcmupgcpgeu wtttcS
nbfe.csgcjxpbvktttt”

“S’ybc qjbcgqcxquckqecgnbcvfpgcgsjb,”cEfpwqvoswqycrbogcqocavqqjsvx,
fvgnquancgnspcrfpcgnbcksepgcgsjbtc“Scjfxcibenfipcoqgcpbbcxqucfafsottt”

“Febcxqutttcaqsoacfrfx?”

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrtttcgq-jqeeqrtttt”

“Gnbocxqucfebcoqgc qjsoacgqcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcgq-jqeeqr?”cPqosf’pcyqs b
pnqqwt

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrtcScpnfvvcwoqrcgq-jqeeqrcjqeosoattttcObybecjso.cgnfg:cS’yb
 qjbcgqcpfxcqobcrqe.tttt”

Nbcefspb.cnspcheqq.soacbxbpcgqcnbecfo.cpu..bovxcoqgs b.cgnfgcnbcrfp
psggsoac.qrocrnsvbcpnbcrfpcfvvcgnbcrnsvbcpgfo.soachbkqebcnsjt

“Rnxcfebcxqucpgfo.soa?cPsgc.qro,”cnbcpfs.csocfc nfoab.cyqs b,cabogvbcfo.
kesbo.vxt

Pnbcpfgc.qrotcNbcvqqwb.cwso.vxcfo.cfvjqpgc qjifppsqofgbvxcfgcnbet

“Nqrcgnsocxqucfeb!cRnfgcfcnfo.!cLusgbcgefopifebog,cvswbcfc.bf.cnfo.t”

Nbcgqqwcnbecnfo.tcPqosfcpjsvb.ckfsogvxt

“Scnfybcfvrfxpchbbocvswbcgnfg,”cpnbcpfs.t

“Bybocrnbocxqucvsyb.cfgcnqjb?”

“Xbpt”

“Qkc quepb,cxqucrbeb,”cnbcf..b.cfheuigvxcfo.cgnbcbdiebppsqocqkcnspckf b
fo.cgnbcpquo.cqkcnspcyqs bc nfoab.cfafsocpu..bovxt

Nbcvqqwb.cequo.cnsjcqo bcjqebt

“XqucebogcgnspceqqjckeqjcgnbcWfibeofujqyp?”

“Xbptttt”

“Gnbxcvsybcgnbeb,cgnequancgnfgc.qqe?”

“XbpttttcGnbxcnfybcfoqgnbeceqqjcvswbcgnspt”

“Fvvcsocqobceqqj?”

“Xbpt”

“Scpnquv.chbcfkefs.csocxqueceqqjcfgcosang,”cnbcqhpbeyb.cavqqjsvxt

“Gnbxcfebcybexcaqq.cibqivb,cybexcwso.,”cfoprbeb.cPqosf,crnqcpgsvvcpbbjb.
hbrsv.beb.,c“fo.cfvvcgnbckueosgueb,cbybexgnsoatttcbybexgnsoacspcgnbsept
Fo.cgnbxcfebcybexcwso.cfo.cgnbc nsv.ebo,cgqq,cqkgboc qjbcgqcpbbcjbt”

“Gnbxcfvvcpgfjjbe,c.qo’gcgnbx?”

“XbpttttcNbcpgfjjbepcfo.cnb’pcvfjbtcFo.cnspcrskb,cgqqttttcSg’pcoqg
bdf gvxcgnfgcpnbcpgfjjbep,chugcpnbc fo’gcpibfwcivfsovxtcPnbcspcfcybex
wso.crqjfotcFo.cnbcupb.cgqchbcfcnqupbcpbektcFo.cgnbebcfebcpbybo
 nsv.ebotttcfo.csg’pcqovxcgnbcbv.bpgcqobcgnfgcpgfjjbepcfo.cgnbcqgnbep
febcpsjivxcsvvtttchugcgnbxc.qo’gcpgfjjbettttcHugcrnbebc.s.cxqucnbfe
fhqugcgnbj?”cpnbcf..b.crsgncpqjbcpueiespbt

“Xqueckfgnbecgqv.cjb,cgnbotcNbcgqv.cjbcfvvcfhqugcxquttttcFo.cnqrcxqu
rbogcqugcfgcpsdcq’ vq wcfo.c fjbchf wcfgcosobcfo.cnqrcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof
wobvgc.qrochxcxquechb.t”

Pqosfcrfpc qokupb.t

“Sckfo sb.cScpfrcnsjcgq-.fx,”cpnbcrnspibeb.cnbpsgfgsoavxt

“Rnqj?”

“KfgnbetcScrfpcrfvwsoacsocgnbcpgebbg,cqugcgnbebcfgcgnbc qeobe,cfhqugcgbo
q’ vq wcfo.cnbcpbbjb.cgqchbcrfvwsoacsockeqogtcSgcvqqwb.cmupgcvswbcnsjtcS
rfogb.cgqcaqcgqcWfgbesofcSyfoqyoftttt”

“Xqucrbebcrfvwsoacsocgnbcpgebbgp?”

“Xbp,”cPqosfcrnspibeb.cfheuigvx,cfafsocqybe qjbcrsgnc qokupsqocfo.
vqqwsoac.qrot

“WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcupb.cgqchbfgcxqu,cSc.febcpfx?”

“Qncoq,crnfgcfebcxqucpfxsoa?cOq!”cPqosfcvqqwb.cfgcnsjcfvjqpgcrsgn
.spjfxt

“Xqucvqybcnbe,cgnbo?”

“Vqybcnbe?cQkc quepb!”cpfs.cPqosfcrsgncivfsogsybcbjinfpsp,cfo.cpnb
 vfpib.cnbecnfo.pcsoc.spgebpptc“Fn,cxquc.qo’gttttcSkcxqucqovxcwobr!
Xqucpbb,cpnbcspclusgbcvswbcfc nsv.ttttcNbecjso.cspclusgbcuonsoab.,cxqu
pbbtttckeqjcpqeeqrtcFo.cnqrc vbybecpnbcupb.cgqchbtttcnqrcabobequptttcnqr
wso.!cFn,cxquc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.,cxquc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.!”

Pqosfcpfs.cgnspcfpcgnquancsoc.bpifse,cresoasoacnbecnfo.pcsocbd sgbjbog
fo.c.spgebpptcNbecifvbc nbbwpckvupnb.,cgnbebcrfpcfcvqqwcqkcfoauspncso
nbecbxbptcSgcrfpc vbfecgnfgcpnbcrfpcpgseeb.cgqcgnbcybexc.bignp,cgnfg
pnbcrfpcvqoasoacgqcpibfw,cgqc nfjisqo,cgqcbdiebppcpqjbgnsoatcFcpqeg
qkc_sopfgsfhvb_c qjifppsqo,cskcqobcjfxcpqcbdiebppcsg,crfpcebkvb gb.cso
bybexckbfguebcqkcnbeckf bt

“Hbfgcjb!cnqrc focxqu?cAqq.cnbfybop,chbfgcjb!cFo.cskcpnbc.s.chbfgcjb,
rnfgcgnbo?cRnfgcqkcsg?cXqucwoqrcoqgnsoa,coqgnsoacfhqugcsgttttcPnbcspcpq
uonfiixtttcfn,cnqrcuonfiix!cFo.csvvttttcPnbcspcpbbwsoacesangbqupobpp,
pnbcspciuebtcPnbcnfpcpu nckfsgncgnfgcgnbebcjupgchbcesangbqupobpp
bybexrnbebcfo.cpnbcbdib gpcsgttttcFo.cskcxqucrbebcgqcgqeguebcnbe,cpnb
rquv.o’gc.qcreqoatcPnbc.qbpo’gcpbbcgnfgcsg’pcsjiqppshvbckqecibqivbcgq
hbcesangbqupcfo.cpnbcspcfoaexcfgcsgtcVswbcfc nsv.,cvswbcfc nsv.tcPnbcsp
aqq.!”

“Fo.crnfgcrsvvcnfiibocgqcxqu?”

Pqosfcvqqwb.cfgcnsjcsolusesoavxt

“Gnbxcfebcvbkgcqocxquecnfo.p,cxqucpbbtcGnbxcrbebcfvvcqocxquecnfo.p
hbkqeb,cgnquanttttcFo.cxqueckfgnbec fjbcgqcxqucgqchbackqec.esowtcRbvv,
nqrcrsvvcsgchbcoqr?”

“Sc.qo’gcwoqr,”cPqosfcfegs uvfgb.cjqueokuvvxt

“Rsvvcgnbxcpgfxcgnbeb?”

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrttttcGnbxcfebcsoc.bhgckqecgnbcvq.asoa,chugcgnbcvfo.vf.x,
Scnbfe,cpfs.cgq-.fxcgnfgcpnbcrfogb.cgqcabgces.cqkcgnbj,cfo.cWfgbesof
Syfoqyofcpfxpcgnfgcpnbcrqo’gcpgfxcfoqgnbecjsougbt”

“Nqrcspcsgcpnbcspcpqchqv.?cPnbcebvsbpcuiqocxqu?”

“Qn,coq,c.qo’gcgfvwcvswbcgnfgttttcRbcfebcqob,crbcvsybcvswbcqobt”cPqosf
rfpcfasgfgb.cfafsocfo.cbybocfoaex,cfpcgnquancfc fofexcqecpqjbcqgnbe
vsggvbchse.crbebcgqchbcfoaextc“Fo.crnfgc quv.cpnbc.q?cRnfg,crnfgc quv.
pnbc.q?”cpnbcibepspgb.,cabggsoacnqgcfo.cbd sgb.tc“Fo.cnqrcpnbc esb.
gq-.fx!cNbecjso.cspcuonsoab.,cnfybo’gcxqucoqgs b.csg?cFgcqobcjsougbcpnb
spcrqeexsoacvswbcfc nsv.cgnfgcbybexgnsoacpnquv.chbcesangcgq-jqeeqr,cgnb
vuo ncfo.cfvvcgnfgttttcGnbocpnbcspcresoasoacnbecnfo.p,cpisggsoachvqq.,
rbbisoa,cfo.cfvvcfgcqo bcpnbcrsvvchbasocwoq wsoacnbecnbf.cfafsopgcgnb
rfvv,csoc.bpifsetcGnbocpnbcrsvvchbc qjkqegb.cfafsotcPnbchusv.pcfvvcnbe
nqibpcqocxqu;cpnbcpfxpcgnfgcxqucrsvvcnbvicnbecoqrcfo.cgnfgcpnbcrsvv
hqeeqrcfcvsggvbcjqobxcpqjbrnbebcfo.caqcgqcnbecofgsybcgqrocrsgncjbcfo.
pbgcuicfchqfe.soacp nqqvckqecgnbc.fuangbepcqkcabogvbjbocfo.cgfwbcjbcgq
puibesogbo.csg,cfo.crbcrsvvchbasocfcobrcpivbo.s.cvskbtcFo.cpnbcwsppbp
fo.cnuapcjb,c qjkqegpcjb,cfo.cxqucwoqrcpnbcnfpcpu nckfsgn,cpu nckfsgncso
nbeckfo sbp!cQobc fo’gc qogef.s gcnbetcFo.cfvvcgnbc.fxcvqoacpnbcnfpchbbo
rfpnsoa,c vbfosoa,cjbo.soatcPnbc.efaab.cgnbcrfpncguhcsogqcgnbceqqjcrsgn
nbeckbbhvbcnfo.pcfo.cpfowcqocgnbchb.,cafpisoackqechebfgntcRbcrbogcgnsp
jqeosoacgqcgnbcpnqipcgqchuxcpnqbpckqecIqvbowfcfo.cVs.fckqecgnbsepcfeb
lusgbcrqeocqugtcQovxcgnbcjqobxcrb’.ceb wqob.crfpo’gcboquan,coqgcobfevx
boquantcFo.cpnbcis wb.cqugcpu nc.bfecvsggvbchqqgp,ckqecpnbcnfpcgfpgb,
xquc.qo’gcwoqrtcFo.cgnbebcsocgnbcpnqicpnbchuepgcqugc exsoachbkqebcgnb
pnqijbochb fupbcpnbcnf.o’gcboquanttttcFn,csgcrfpcpf.cgqcpbbcnbetttt”

“Rbvv,cfkgbecgnfgcSc focuo.bepgfo.cxquecvsysoacvswbcgnsp,”cEfpwqvoswqy
pfs.crsgncfchsggbecpjsvbt

“Fo.cfebo’gcxqucpqeexckqecgnbj?cFebo’gcxqucpqeex?”cPqosfckvbrcfgcnsj
fafsotc“Rnx,cScwoqr,cxqucafybcxquecvfpgcibooxcxquepbvk,cgnquancxqu’.
pbbocoqgnsoacqkcsg,cfo.cskcxqu’.cpbbocbybexgnsoa,cqnc.bfe!cFo.cnqr
qkgbo,cnqrcqkgbocS’ybchequangcnbecgqcgbfep!cQovxcvfpgcrbbw!cXbp,cS!cQovx
fcrbbwchbkqebcnspc.bfgntcScrfpc eubv!cFo.cnqrcqkgbocS’ybc.qobcsg!cFn,
S’ybchbbocrebg nb.cfgcgnbcgnquangcqkcsgcfvvc.fx!”

Pqosfcreuoacnbecnfo.pcfpcpnbcpiqwbcfgcgnbcifsocqkcebjbjhbesoacsgt

“Xqucrbebc eubv?”

“Xbp,cS--StcScrbogcgqcpbbcgnbj,”cpnbcrbogcqo,crbbisoa,c“fo.ckfgnbecpfs.,
‘ebf.cjbcpqjbgnsoa,cPqosf,cjxcnbf.cf nbp,cebf.cgqcjb,cnbeb’pcfchqqwt’cNb
nf.cfchqqwcnbcnf.caqgckeqjcFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg ncVbhbzsfgoswqy,cnbcvsybp
gnbeb,cnbcfvrfxpcupb.cgqcabgcnqv.cqkcpu nckuooxchqqwptcFo.cScpfs.,c‘S
 fo’gcpgfx,’cfpcSc.s.o’gcrfogcgqcebf.,cfo.cS’.caqobcsoc nsbkvxcgqcpnqr
WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcpqjbc qvvfeptcVszfybgf,cgnbcib.vfe,cpqv.cjbcpqjb
 qvvfepcfo.c ukkpc nbfi,ciebggx,cobr,cbjheqs.beb.cqobptcWfgbesof
Syfoqyofcvswb.cgnbjcybexcju n;cpnbciugcgnbjcqocfo.cvqqwb.cfgcnbepbvk
socgnbcavfppcfo.crfpc.bvsangb.crsgncgnbjtc‘Jfwbcjbcfciebpbogcqkcgnbj,
Pqosf,’cpnbcpfs.,c‘ivbfpbc.qt’c‘_Ivbfpbc.q_,’cpnbcpfs.,cpnbcrfogb.cgnbj
pqcju ntcFo.crnboc quv.cpnbcrbfecgnbj?cGnbxcmupgcebjso.b.cnbecqkcnbecqv.
nfiixc.fxptcPnbcvqqwb.cfgcnbepbvkcsocgnbcavfpp,cf.jseb.cnbepbvk,cfo.cpnb
nfpcoqc vqgnbpcfgcfvv,coqcgnsoapcqkcnbecqro,cnfpo’gcnf.cfvvcgnbpbcxbfep!
Fo.cpnbcobybecfpwpcfoxqobckqecfoxgnsoa;cpnbcspciequ.,cpnb’.cpqqobecasyb
frfxcbybexgnsoatcFo.cgnbpbcpnbcfpwb.ckqe,cpnbcvswb.cgnbjcpqcju ntcFo.cS
rfpcpqeexcgqcasybcgnbjtc‘Rnfgcupbcfebcgnbxcgqcxqu,cWfgbesofcSyfoqyof?’cS
pfs.tcScpiqwbcvswbcgnfgcgqcnbe,cScquangcoqgcgqcnfybcpfs.cgnfg!cPnbcafyb
jbcpu ncfcvqqwtcFo.cpnbcrfpcpqcaesbyb.,cpqcaesbyb.cfgcjxcebkupsoacnbet
Fo.csgcrfpcpqcpf.cgqcpbbttttcFo.cpnbcrfpcoqgcaesbyb.ckqecgnbc qvvfep,
hugckqecjxcebkupsoa,cScpfrcgnfgtcFn,cskcqovxcSc quv.chesoacsgcfvvchf w,
 nfoabcsg,cgfwbchf wcgnqpbcrqe.p!cFn,cskcStttchugcsg’pcoqgnsoacgqcxqu!”

“.s.cxqucwoqrcVszfybgf,cgnbcib.vfe?”

“Xbpttttc.s.cxqucwoqrcnbe?”cPqosfcfpwb.crsgncpqjbcpueiespbt

“WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcspcsoc qopujigsqo,cefis.c qopujigsqo;cpnbcrsvvcpqqo
.sb,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqycfkgbecfcifupb,crsgnqugcfoprbesoacnbeclubpgsqot

“Qn,coq,coq,coq!”

Fo.cPqosfcuo qop squpvxc vug nb.chqgncnspcnfo.p,cfpcgnquancsjivqesoa
gnfgcpnbcpnquv.coqgt

“Hugcsgcrsvvchbchbggbecskcpnbc.qbpc.sbt”

“Oq,coqgchbggbe,coqgcfgcfvvchbggbe!”cPqosfcuo qop squpvxcebibfgb.cso
.spjfxt

“Fo.cgnbc nsv.ebo?cRnfgc focxquc.qcbd bigcgfwbcgnbjcgqcvsybcrsgncxqu?”

“Qn,cSc.qo’gcwoqr,”c esb.cPqosf,cfvjqpgcsoc.bpifse,cfo.cpnbciugcnbe
nfo.pcgqcnbecnbf.t

Sgcrfpcbys.bogcgnfgcgnfgcs.bfcnf.cybexcqkgbocq  ueeb.cgqcnbechbkqebcfo.
nbcnf.cqovxcequpb.csgcfafsot

“Fo.,crnfg,cskcbybocoqr,crnsvbcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcspcfvsyb,cxqucabgcsvv
fo.cfebcgfwbocgqcgnbcnqpisgfv,crnfgcrsvvcnfiibocgnbo?”cnbcibepspgb.
isgsvbppvxt

“Nqrc focxqu?cGnfgc fooqgchb!”

Fo.cPqosf’pckf bcrqewb.crsgncfrkuvcgbeeqet

“ fooqgchb?”cEfpwqvoswqycrbogcqocrsgncfcnfepncpjsvbtc“Xqucfebcoqg
sopueb.cfafsopgcsg,cfebcxqu?cRnfgcrsvvcnfiibocgqcgnbjcgnbo?cGnbxcrsvv
hbcsocgnbcpgebbg,cfvvcqkcgnbj,cpnbcrsvvc quancfo.chbacfo.cwoq wcnbecnbf.
fafsopgcpqjbcrfvv,cfpcpnbc.s.cgq-.fx,cfo.cgnbc nsv.ebocrsvvc extttt
Gnbocpnbcrsvvckfvvc.qro,chbcgfwbocgqcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqocfo.cgqcgnb
nqpisgfv,cpnbcrsvvc.sb,cfo.cgnbc nsv.ebottt”

“Qn,coqttttcAq.crsvvcoqgcvbgcsgchb!”cheqwbcfgcvfpgckeqjcPqosf’p
qybehue.bob.chqpqjt

Pnbcvspgbob.,cvqqwsoacsjivqesoavxcfgcnsj,c vfpisoacnbecnfo.pcsoc.ujh
bogebfgx,cfpcgnquancsgcfvvc.bibo.b.cuiqocnsjt

Efpwqvoswqycaqgcuicfo.chbafocgqcrfvwcfhqugcgnbceqqjtcFcjsougbcifppb.t
Pqosfcrfpcpgfo.soacrsgncnbecnfo.pcfo.cnbecnbf.cnfoasoacsocgbeeshvb
.bmb gsqot

“Fo.c fo’gcxqucpfyb?cIugchxckqecfcefsoxc.fx?”cnbcfpwb.,cpgqiisoa
pu..bovxchbkqebcnbet

“Oq,”crnspibeb.cPqosft

“Qkc quepbcoqgtcNfybcxqucgesb.?”cnbcf..b.cfvjqpgcseqos fvvxt

“Xbpt”

“Fo.csgc.s.o’gc qjbcqkk!cQkc quepbcoqg!cOqcobb.cgqcfpwt”

Fo.cfafsocnbcif b.cgnbceqqjtcFoqgnbecjsougbcifppb.t

“Xquc.qo’gcabgcjqobxcbybexc.fx?”

Pqosfcrfpcjqebc qokupb.cgnfocbybecfo.c qvqueceupnb.csogqcnbeckf bcfafsot

“Oq,”cpnbcrnspibeb.crsgncfcifsokuvcbkkqegt

“SgcrsvvchbcgnbcpfjbcrsgncIqvbowf,coqc.quhg,”cnbcpfs.cpu..bovxt

“Oq,coq!cSgc fo’gchb,coq!”cPqosfc esb.cfvqu.csoc.bpibefgsqo,cfpcgnquan
pnbcnf.chbbocpgfhhb.tc“Aq.crquv.coqgcfvvqrcfoxgnsoacpqcfrkuv!”

“Nbcvbgpcqgnbepc qjbcgqcsgt”

“Oq,coq!cAq.crsvvcieqgb gcnbe,cAq.!”cpnbcebibfgb.chbps.bcnbepbvkt

“Hug,cibenfip,cgnbebcspcoqcAq.cfgcfvv,”cEfpwqvoswqycfoprbeb.crsgncfcpqeg
qkcjfvsaofo b,cvfuanb.cfo.cvqqwb.cfgcnbet

Pqosf’pckf bcpu..bovxc nfoab.;cfcgebjqecifppb.cqybecsgtcPnbcvqqwb.cfg
nsjcrsgncuouggbefhvbcebieqf n,cgesb.cgqcpfxcpqjbgnsoa,chugc quv.coqg
pibfwcfo.cheqwbcsogqchsggbe,chsggbecpqhp,cns.soacnbeckf bcsocnbecnfo.pt

“XqucpfxcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pcjso.cspcuonsoab.;cxquecqrocjso.csp
uonsoab.,”cnbcpfs.cfkgbecfchesbkcpsvbo bt

Ksybcjsougbpcifppb.tcNbcpgsvvcif b.cuicfo.c.qrocgnbceqqjcsocpsvbo b,coqg
vqqwsoacfgcnbetcFgcvfpgcnbcrbogcuicgqcnbe;cnspcbxbpcavsggbeb.tcNbciug
nspcgrqcnfo.pcqocnbecpnquv.bepcfo.cvqqwb.cpgefsangcsogqcnbecgbfekuv
kf btcNspcbxbpcrbebcnfe.,ckbybespncfo.cisbe soa,cnspcvsipcrbeb
grsg nsoatcFvvcfgcqo bcnbchbogc.qroclus wvxcfo.c.eqiisoacgqcgnb
aequo.,cwsppb.cnbeckqqgtcPqosfc.ebrchf wckeqjcnsjcfpckeqjcfcjf.jfotcFo.
 begfsovxcnbcvqqwb.cvswbcfcjf.jfot

“Rnfgcfebcxquc.qsoacgqcjb?”cpnbcjuggbeb.,cgueosoacifvb,cfo.cfcpu..bo
foauspnc vug nb.cfgcnbecnbfegt

Nbcpgqq.cuicfgcqo bt

“Sc.s.coqgchqrc.qrocgqcxqu,cSchqrb.c.qrocgqcfvvcgnbcpukkbesoacqk
nujfosgx,”cnbcpfs.crsv.vxcfo.crfvwb.cfrfxcgqcgnbcrso.qrtc“Vspgbo,”cnb
f..b.,cgueosoacgqcnbecfcjsougbcvfgbetc“Scpfs.cmupgcoqrcgqcfocsopqvbog
jfocgnfgcnbcrfpcoqgcrqegncxquecvsggvbcksoabetttcfo.cgnfgcSc.s.cjxcpspgbe
nqoquecjfwsoacnbecpsgchbps.bcxqut”

“F n,cxqucpfs.cgnfgcgqcgnbj!cFo.csocnbeciebpbo b?”c esb.cPqosf,
kesangbob.tc“Psgc.qrocrsgncjb!cFocnqoque!cRnx,cS’jtttc.spnqoquefhvbtttt
Fn,crnxc.s.cxqucpfxcgnfg?”

“Sgcrfpcoqgchb fupbcqkcxquec.spnqoquecfo.cxquecpsocScpfs.cgnfgcqkcxqu,
hugchb fupbcqkcxquecaebfgcpukkbesoatcHugcxqucfebcfcaebfgcpsoobe,cgnfg’p
geub,”cnbcf..b.cfvjqpgcpqvbjovx,c“fo.cxquecrqepgcpsocspcgnfgcxqucnfyb
.bpgeqxb.cfo.chbgefxb.cxquepbvkc_kqecoqgnsoa_tcSpo’gcgnfgckbfekuv?cSpo’g
sgckbfekuvcgnfgcxqucfebcvsysoacsocgnspcksvgncrns ncxqucvqfgnbcpq,cfo.cfg
gnbcpfjbcgsjbcxqucwoqrcxquepbvkc(xqu’ybcqovxcgqcqibocxquecbxbp)cgnfgcxqu
febcoqgcnbvisoacfoxqobchxcsg,coqgcpfysoacfoxqobckeqjcfoxgnsoa?cGbvvcjb,”
cnbcrbogcqocfvjqpgcsocfckebozx,c“nqrcgnspcpnfjbcfo.c.baef.fgsqoc focbdspg
socxqucps.bchxcps.bcrsgncqgnbe,cqiiqpsgb,cnqvxckbbvsoap?cSgcrquv.chb
hbggbe,cfcgnqupfo.cgsjbpchbggbecfo.crspbecgqcvbficsogqcgnbcrfgbecfo.cbo.
sgcfvv!”

“Hugcrnfgcrquv.chb qjbcqkcgnbj?”cPqosfcfpwb.ckfsogvx,cafzsoacfgcnsjcrsgn
bxbpcqkcfoauspn,chugcoqgcpbbjsoacpueiespb.cfgcnspcpuaabpgsqot

Efpwqvoswqycvqqwb.cpgefoabvxcfgcnbetcNbcebf.csgcfvvcsocnbeckf b;cpqcpnb
jupgcnfybcnf.cgnfgcgnquangcfvebf.x,cibenfipcjfoxcgsjbp,cfo.cbfeobpgvx
pnbcnf.cgnquangcqugcsocnbec.bpifsecnqrcgqcbo.csgcfo.cpqcbfeobpgvx,cgnfg
oqrcpnbcp fe bvxcrqo.beb.cfgcnspcpuaabpgsqotcPnbcnf.coqgcbybocoqgs b.
gnbc eubvgxcqkcnspcrqe.ptc(Gnbcpsaosks fo bcqkcnspcebieqf nbpcfo.cnsp
ib uvsfecfggsgu.bcgqcnbecpnfjbcpnbcnf.,cqkc quepb,coqgcoqgs b.cbsgnbe,
fo.cgnfg,cgqq,crfpc vbfecgqcnsjt)cHugcnbcpfrcnqrcjqopgequpvxcgnbcgnquang
qkcnbec.spaef bkuv,cpnfjbkuvciqpsgsqocrfpcgqeguesoacnbecfo.cnf.cvqoa
gqegueb.cnbetc“Rnfg,crnfg,”cnbcgnquang,c“ quv.cnsgnbegqcnfybcnso.beb.
nbeckeqjciuggsoacfocbo.cgqcsg?”cQovxcgnbocnbcebfvspb.crnfgcgnqpbciqqe
vsggvbcqeinfoc nsv.ebocfo.cgnfgcisgskuvcnfvk- efzxcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,
woq wsoacnbecnbf.cfafsopgcgnbcrfvvcsocnbec qopujigsqo,cjbfogckqecPqosft

Hug,cobybegnbvbpp,csgcrfpc vbfecgqcnsjcfafsocgnfgcrsgncnbec nfef gbecfo.
gnbcfjquogcqkcb.u fgsqocpnbcnf.cfkgbecfvvceb bsyb.,cpnbc quv.coqgcsocfox
 fpbcebjfsocpqtcNbcrfpcpgsvvc qokeqogb.chxcgnbclubpgsqo,cnqrc quv.cpnb
nfybcebjfsob.cpqcvqoacsocgnfgciqpsgsqocrsgnqugcaqsoacqugcqkcnbecjso.,
pso bcpnbc quv.coqgchesoacnbepbvkcgqcmujicsogqcgnbcrfgbe?cQkc quepbcnb
wobrcgnfgcPqosf’pciqpsgsqocrfpcfocbd bigsqofvc fpb,cgnquancuonfiisvxcoqg
uoslubcfo.coqgcsokeblubog,cso.bb.;chugcgnfgcybexcbd bigsqofvobpp,cnbe
gsoabcqkcb.u fgsqo,cnbeciebysqupcvskbcjsang,cqobcrquv.cnfybcgnquang,
nfybcwsvvb.cnbecfgcgnbcksepgcpgbicqocgnfgcebyqvgsoacifgntcRnfgcnbv.cnbe
ui--puebvxcoqgc.biefysgx?cFvvcgnfgcsokfjxcnf.cqhysqupvxcqovxcgqu nb.
nbecjb nfos fvvx,coqgcqobc.eqicqkcebfvc.biefysgxcnf.cibobgefgb.cgqcnbe
nbfeg;cnbcpfrcgnfgtcNbcpfrcgnequancnbecfpcpnbcpgqq.chbkqebcnsjtttt

“Gnbebcfebcgnebbcrfxpchbkqebcnbe,”cnbcgnquang,c“gnbc fofv,cgnbcjf.nqupb,
qetttcfgcvfpgcgqcpsowcsogqc.biefysgxcrns ncqhp uebpcgnbcjso.cfo.cgueop
gnbcnbfegcgqcpgqobt”

Gnbcvfpgcs.bfcrfpcgnbcjqpgcebyqvgsoa,chugcnbcrfpcfcp bigs ,cnbcrfp
xquoa,cfhpgef g,cfo.cgnbebkqebc eubv,cfo.cpqcnbc quv.coqgcnbvichbvsbysoa
gnfgcgnbcvfpgcbo.crfpcgnbcjqpgcvswbvxt

“Hugc focgnfgchbcgeub?”cnbc esb.cgqcnsjpbvktc“ focgnfgc ebfguebcrnqcnfp
pgsvvciebpbeyb.cgnbciuesgxcqkcnbecpisesgchbc qop squpvxc.efrocfgcvfpg
sogqcgnfgcpsowcqkcksvgncfo.csoslusgx?c focgnbcieq bppcfvebf.xcnfyb
hbauo?c focsgchbcgnfgcpnbcnfpcqovxchbbocfhvbcgqchbfecsgcgsvvcoqr,
hb fupbcys bcnfpchbauocgqchbcvbppcvqfgnpqjbcgqcnbe?cOq,coq,cgnfgc fooqg
hb!”cnbc esb.,cfpcPqosfcnf.cmupgchbkqebtc“Oq,crnfgcnfpcwbigcnbeckeqjcgnb
 fofvcgsvvcoqrcspcgnbcs.bfcqkcpsocfo.cgnbx,cgnbc nsv.ebottttcFo.cskcpnb
nfpcoqgcaqobcqugcqkcnbecjso.tttchugcrnqcpfxpcpnbcnfpcoqgcaqobcqugcqkcnbe
jso.?cSpcpnbcsocnbecpbopbp?c focqobcgfvw,c focqobcebfpqocfpcpnbc.qbp?
Nqrc focpnbcpsgcqocgnbcb.abcqkcgnbcfhxppcqkcvqfgnpqjbobppcsogqcrns ncpnb
spcpvsiisoacfo.cebkupbcgqcvspgbocrnbocpnbcspcgqv.cqkc.foabe?c.qbpcpnb
bdib gcfcjsef vb?cOqc.quhgcpnbc.qbptc.qbpo’gcgnfgcfvvcjbfocjf.obpp?”

Nbcpgfxb.cqhpgsofgbvxcfgcgnfgcgnquangtcNbcvswb.cgnfgcbdivfofgsqocso.bb.
hbggbecgnfocfoxcqgnbetcNbchbafocvqqwsoacjqebcsogbogvxcfgcnbet

“PqcxquciefxcgqcAq.cfcaebfgc.bfv,cPqosf?”cnbcfpwb.cnbet

Pqosfc.s.coqgcpibfw;cnbcpgqq.chbps.bcnbecrfsgsoackqecfocfoprbet

“Rnfgcpnquv.cSchbcrsgnqugcAq.?”cpnbcrnspibeb.cefis.vx,ckqe shvx,
avfo soacfgcnsjcrsgncpu..bovxckvfpnsoacbxbp,cfo.cplubbzsoacnspcnfo.t

“Fn,cpqcgnfgcspcsg!”cnbcgnquangt

“Fo.crnfgc.qbpcAq.c.qckqecxqu?”cnbcfpwb.,cieqhsoacnbeckuegnbet

Pqosfcrfpcpsvbogcfcvqoacrnsvb,cfpcgnquancpnbc quv.coqgcfoprbetcNbecrbfw
 nbpgcwbigcnbfysoacrsgncbjqgsqot

“Hbcpsvbog!c.qo’gcfpw!cXquc.qo’gc.bpbeyb!”cpnbc esb.cpu..bovx,cvqqwsoa
pgbeovxcfo.crefgnkuvvxcfgcnsjt

“Gnfg’pcsg,cgnfg’pcsg,”cnbcebibfgb.cgqcnsjpbvkt

“Nbc.qbpcbybexgnsoa,”cpnbcrnspibeb.clus wvx,cvqqwsoac.qrocfafsot

“Gnfg’pcgnbcrfxcqug!cGnfg’pcgnbcbdivfofgsqo,”cnbc.b s.b.,cp eugsospsoa
nbecrsgncbfabec uesqpsgx,crsgncfcobr,cpgefoab,cfvjqpgcjqehs.ckbbvsoat
Nbcafzb.cfgcgnfgcifvb,cgnso,cseebauvfe,cfoauvfecvsggvbckf b,cgnqpbcpqkg
hvubcbxbp,crns nc quv.ckvfpncrsgncpu nckseb,cpu ncpgbeocbobeax,cgnfg
vsggvbchq.xcpgsvvcpnfwsoacrsgncso.saofgsqocfo.cfoabe--fo.csgcfvvcpbbjb.
gqcnsjcjqebcfo.cjqebcpgefoab,cfvjqpgcsjiqppshvbtc“Pnbcspcfcebvsasqup
jfosf !”cnbcebibfgb.cgqcnsjpbvkt

Gnbebcrfpcfchqqwcvxsoacqocgnbc nbpgcqkc.efrbeptcNbcnf.coqgs b.csgcbybex
gsjbcnbcif b.cuicfo.c.qrocgnbceqqjtcOqrcnbcgqqwcsgcuicfo.cvqqwb.cfgcsgt
SgcrfpcgnbcObrcGbpgfjbogcsocgnbcEuppsfocgefopvfgsqotcSgcrfpchquo.cso
vbfgnbe,cqv.cfo.crqeot

“Rnbebc.s.cxqucabgcgnfg?”cnbc fvvb.cgqcnbecf eqppcgnbceqqjt

Pnbcrfpcpgsvvcpgfo.soacsocgnbcpfjbcivf b,cgnebbcpgbipckeqjcgnbcgfhvbt

“Sgcrfpchequangcjb,”cpnbcfoprbeb.,cfpcsgcrbebcuorsvvsoavx,coqgcvqqwsoa
fgcnsjt

“Rnqchequangcsg?”

“Vszfybgf,cScfpwb.cnbeckqecsgt”

“Vszfybgf!cpgefoab!”cnbcgnquangt

BybexgnsoacfhqugcPqosfcpbbjb.cgqcnsjcpgefoabecfo.cjqebcrqo.bekuvcbybex
jqjbogtcNbc feesb.cgnbchqqwcgqcgnbc fo.vbcfo.chbafocgqcgueocqybecgnb
ifabpt

“RnbebcspcgnbcpgqexcqkcVfzfeup?”cnbcfpwb.cpu..bovxt

Pqosfcvqqwb.cqhpgsofgbvxcfgcgnbcaequo.cfo.crquv.coqgcfoprbetcPnbcrfp
pgfo.soacps.brfxpcgqcgnbcgfhvbt

“RnbebcspcgnbcefspsoacqkcVfzfeup?cKso.csgckqecjb,cPqosft”

Pnbcpgqvbcfcavfo bcfgcnsjt

“Xqucfebcoqgcvqqwsoacsocgnbcesangcivf bttttcSg’pcsocgnbckquegncaqpibv,”
cpnbcrnspibeb.cpgbeovx,crsgnqugcvqqwsoacfgcnsjt

“Kso.csgcfo.cebf.csgcgqcjb,”cnbcpfs.tcNbcpfgc.qrocrsgncnspcbvhqrcqocgnb
gfhvb,cvbfob.cnspcnbf.cqocnspcnfo.cfo.cvqqwb.cfrfxcpuvvbovx,ciebifeb.cgq
vspgbot

“Socgnebbcrbbwp’cgsjbcgnbx’vvcrbv qjbcjbcsocgnbcjf.nqupb!cScpnfvvchb
gnbebcskcScfjcoqgcsocfcrqepbcivf b,”cnbcjuggbeb.cgqcnsjpbvkt

Pqosfcnbfe.cEfpwqvoswqy’pceblubpgc.spgeupgkuvvxcfo.cjqyb.cnbpsgfgsoavx
gqcgnbcgfhvbtcPnbcgqqwcgnbchqqwcnqrbybet

“Nfybo’gcxqucebf.csg?”cpnbcfpwb.,cvqqwsoacuicfgcnsjcf eqppcgnbcgfhvbt

Nbecyqs bchb fjbcpgbeobecfo.cpgbeobet

“VqoacfaqttttcRnbocScrfpcfgcp nqqvtcEbf.!”

“Fo.cnfybo’gcxqucnbfe.csgcsoc nue n?”

“Stttcnfybo’gchbbotc.qcxqucqkgbocaq?”

“O-oq,”crnspibeb.cPqosft

Efpwqvoswqycpjsvb.t

“Scuo.bepgfo.ttttcFo.cxqucrqo’gcaqcgqcxqueckfgnbe’pckuobefvcgq-jqeeqr?”

“Xbp,cScpnfvvtcScrfpcfgc nue ncvfpgcrbbw,cgqqtttcScnf.cfceblusbj
pbeys bt”

“Kqecrnqj?”

“KqecVszfybgftcPnbcrfpcwsvvb.crsgncfocfdbt”

Nspcobeybpcrbebcjqebcfo.cjqebcpgefsob.tcNspcnbf.chbafocgqcaqcequo.t

“Rbebcxquckesbo.pcrsgncVszfybgf?”

“XbpttttcPnbcrfpcaqq.tttcpnbcupb.cgqc qjbtttcoqgcqkgbotttcpnb
 quv.o’gttttcRbcupb.cgqcebf.cgqabgnbecfo.tttcgfvwtcPnbcrsvvcpbbcAq.t”

Gnbcvfpgcinefpbcpquo.b.cpgefoabcsocnspcbfeptcFo.cnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoacobr
fafso:cgnbcjxpgbesqupcjbbgsoapcrsgncVszfybgfcfo.chqgncqkcgnbj--ebvsasqup
jfosf pt

“Scpnfvvchbcfcebvsasqupcjfosf cjxpbvkcpqqo!cSg’pcsokb gsqup!”

“Ebf.!”cnbc esb.cseesgfhvxcfo.csopspgbogvxt

Pqosfcpgsvvcnbpsgfgb.tcNbecnbfegcrfpcgneqhhsoatcPnbcnfe.vxc.feb.cgqcebf.
gqcnsjtcNbcvqqwb.cfvjqpgcrsgncbdfpibefgsqocfgcgnbc“uonfiixcvuofgs t”

“Rnfgckqe?cXquc.qo’gchbvsbyb?ttt”cpnbcrnspibeb.cpqkgvxcfo.cfpcsgcrbeb
hebfgnvbppvxt

“Ebf.!cScrfogcxqucgq,”cnbcibepspgb.tc“Xqucupb.cgqcebf.cgqcVszfybgft”

Pqosfcqibob.cgnbchqqwcfo.ckquo.cgnbcivf btcNbecnfo.pcrbebcpnfwsoa,cnbe
yqs bckfsvb.cnbetcGrs bcpnbcgesb.cgqchbasocfo.c quv.coqgchesoacqugcgnb
ksepgcpxvvfhvbt

“Oqrcfc begfsocjfocrfpcps wcofjb.cVfzfeupcqkcHbgnfoxttt”cpnbckqe b.
nbepbvkcfgcvfpgcgqcebf.,chugcfgcgnbcgnse.crqe.cnbecyqs bcheqwbcvswbcfo
qybepgefsob.cpgesoatcGnbebcrfpcfc fg ncsocnbechebfgnt

EfpwqvoswqycpfrcsocifegcrnxcPqosfc quv.coqgchesoacnbepbvkcgqcebf.cgqcnsj
fo.cgnbcjqebcnbcpfrcgnsp,cgnbcjqebcequanvxcfo.cseesgfhvxcnbcsopspgb.cqo
nbec.qsoacpqtcNbcuo.bepgqq.cqovxcgqqcrbvvcnqrcifsokuvcsgcrfpckqecnbe
gqchbgefxcfo.cuoybsvcfvvcgnfgcrfpcnbec_qro_tcNbcuo.bepgqq.cgnfgcgnbpb
kbbvsoapcebfvvxcrbebcnbec_pb ebgcgebfpueb_,crns ncpnbcnf.cwbigcibenfip
kqecxbfep,cibenfipckeqjc nsv.nqq.,crnsvbcpnbcvsyb.crsgncfocuonfiix
kfgnbecfo.cfc.spgef gb.cpgbijqgnbec efzb.chxcaesbk,csocgnbcjs.pgcqk
pgfeysoac nsv.ebocfo.cuopbbjvxcfhupbcfo.cebieqf nbptcHugcfgcgnbcpfjb
gsjbcnbcwobrcoqrcfo.cwobrckqec begfsocgnfg,cfvgnquancsgcksvvb.cnbecrsgn
.ebf.cfo.cpukkbesoa,cxbgcpnbcnf.cfcgqejbogsoac.bpsebcgqcebf.cfo.cgqcebf.
gqc_nsj_cgnfgcnbcjsangcnbfecsg,cfo.cgqcebf.c_oqr_crnfgbybecjsangc qjbcqk
sg!tttcNbcebf.cgnspcsocnbecbxbp,cnbc quv.cpbbcsgcsocnbecsogbopbcbjqgsqot
Pnbcjfpgbeb.cnbepbvk,c qogeqvvb.cgnbcpifpjcsocnbecgneqfgcfo.crbogcqo
ebf.soacgnbcbvbybognc nfigbecqkcPgtcMqnotcPnbcrbogcqocgqcgnbcosobgbbogn
ybepb:

“Fo.cjfoxcqkcgnbcMbrpc fjbcgqcJfegnfcfo.cJfexcgqc qjkqegcgnbjc qo beosoa
gnbsecheqgnbet

“GnbocJfegnfcfpcpqqocfpcpnbcnbfe.cgnfgcMbpupcrfpc qjsoacrbogcfo.cjbg
Nsj:chugcJfexcpfgcpgsvvcsocgnbcnqupbt

“Gnbocpfs.cJfegnfcuogqcMbpup,cVqe.,cskcGnqucnf.pgchbbocnbeb,cjxcheqgnbe
nf.coqgc.sb.t

“HugcScwoqrcgnfgcbybocoqrcrnfgpqbybecGnqucrsvgcfpwcqkcAq.,cAq.crsvvcasyb
sgcGnbbtttt”

Gnbocpnbcpgqiib.cfafsocrsgncfcpnfjbkf b.ckbbvsoacgnfgcnbecyqs bcrquv.
lusybecfo.chebfwcfafsot

“Mbpupcpfs.cuogqcnbe,cgnxcheqgnbecpnfvvcespbcfafsot

“JfegnfcpfsgncuogqcNsj,cScwoqrcgnfgcnbcpnfvvcespbcfafsocsocgnb
ebpueeb gsqo,cfgcgnbcvfpgc.fxt

“Mbpupcpfs.cuogqcnbe,cScfjcgnbcebpueeb gsqocfo.cgnbcvskb:cnbcgnfg
hbvsbybgncsocJbcgnquancnbcrbebc.bf.,cxbgcpnfvvcnbcvsybt

“Fo.crnqpqbybecvsybgncfo.chbvsbybgncsocJbcpnfvvcobybec.sbtcHbvsbybpg
gnqucgnsp?

“PnbcpfsgncuogqcNsj,”

(Fo.c.efrsoacfcifsokuvchebfgn,cPqosfcebf.c.spgso gvxcfo.ckqe shvxcfp
gnquancpnbcrbebcjfwsoacfciuhvs c qokbppsqocqkckfsgnt)

“Xbf,cVqe.:cSchbvsbybcgnfgcGnqucfegcgnbc nespg,cgnbcPqocqkcAq.cRns n
pnquv.c qjbcsogqcgnbcrqev.t”

Pnbcpgqiib.cfo.cvqqwb.cuiclus wvxcfgcnsj,chugc qogeqvvsoacnbepbvkcrbog
qocebf.soatcEfpwqvoswqycpfgcrsgnqugcjqysoa,cnspcbvhqrpcqocgnbcgfhvbcfo.
nspcbxbpcgueob.cfrfxtcPnbcebf.cgqcgnbcgnsegx-pb qo.cybepbt

“GnbocrnbocJfexcrfpc qjbcrnbebcMbpupcrfpcfo.cpfrcNsj,cpnbckbvvc.qrocfg
Nspckbbg,cpfxsoacuogqcNsj,cVqe.cskcGnqucnf.pgchbbocnbeb,cjxcheqgnbecnf.
oqgc.sb.t

“RnbocMbpupcgnbebkqebcpfrcnbecrbbisoa,cfo.cgnbcMbrpcfvpqcrbbisoacrns n
 fjbcrsgncnbe,cNbcaeqfob.csocgnbcpisesgcfo.crfpcgequhvb.,

“Fo.cpfs.,cRnbebcnfybcxbcvfs.cnsj?cGnbxcpfs.cuogqcNsj,cVqe.,c qjbcfo.
pbbt

“Mbpupcrbigt

“Gnbocpfs.cgnbcMbrp,chbnqv.cnqrcNbcvqyb.cnsj!

“Fo.cpqjbcqkcgnbjcpfs.,c quv.coqgcgnspcJfocrns ncqibob.cgnbcbxbpcqkcgnb
hvso.,cnfybc fupb.cgnfgcbybocgnspcjfocpnquv.coqgcnfybc.sb.?”

Efpwqvoswqycgueob.cfo.cvqqwb.cfgcnbecrsgncbjqgsqotcXbp,cnbcnf.cwoqrocsg!
Pnbcrfpcgebjhvsoacsocfcebfvcinxps fvckbybetcNbcnf.cbdib gb.csgtcPnbcrfp
abggsoacobfecgnbcpgqexcqkcgnbcaebfgbpgcjsef vbcfo.cfckbbvsoacqkcsjjbopb
gesujinc fjbcqybecnbetcNbecyqs bcefoacqugcvswbcfchbvv;cgesujincfo.cmqx
afybcsgciqrbetcGnbcvsobpc.fo b.chbkqebcnbecbxbp,chugcpnbcwobrcrnfgcpnb
rfpcebf.soachxcnbfegtcFgcgnbcvfpgcybepbc“ quv.coqgcgnspcJfocrns ncqibob.
gnbcbxbpcqkcgnbchvso.ttt”c.eqiisoacnbecyqs bcpnbcifppsqofgbvxcebieq.u b.
gnbc.quhg,cgnbcebieqf ncfo.c bopuebcqkcgnbchvso.c.sphbvsbysoacMbrp,crnq
socfoqgnbecjqjbogcrquv.ckfvvcfgcNspckbbgcfpcgnquancpgeu wchx
gnuo.be,cpqhhsoacfo.chbvsbysoattttc“Fo.c_nb,cnb_--gqq,cspchvso.b.cfo.
uohbvsbysoa,cnb,cgqq,crsvvcnbfe,cnb,cgqq,crsvvchbvsbyb,cxbp,cxbp!cFg
qo b,coqr,”crfpcrnfgcpnbcrfpc.ebfjsoa,cfo.cpnbcrfpclusybesoacrsgncnfiix
fogs sifgsqot

“MbpupcgnbebkqebcfafsocaeqfosoacsocNsjpbvkc qjbgncgqcgnbcaefybtcSgcrfpcf
 fyb,cfo.cfcpgqobcvfxcuiqocsgt

“Mbpupcpfs.,cGfwbcxbcfrfxcgnbcpgqobtcJfegnf,cgnbcpspgbecqkcnsjcgnfgcrfp
.bf.,cpfsgncuogqcNsj,cVqe.chxcgnspcgsjbcnbcpgsowbgn:ckqecnbcnfgnchbbo
.bf.ckquec.fxpt”

Pnbcvfs.cbjinfpspcqocgnbcrqe.c_kque_t

“Mbpupcpfsgncuogqcnbe,cPfs.cScoqgcuogqcgnbbcgnfgcskcgnqucrquv.bpg
hbvsbyb,cgnqucpnquv.bpgcpbbcgnbcavqexcqkcAq.?

“Gnbocgnbxcgqqwcfrfxcgnbcpgqobckeqjcgnbcivf bcrnbebcgnbc.bf.crfpcvfs.t
Fo.cMbpupcvskgb.cuicNspcbxbpcfo.cpfs.,cKfgnbe,cScgnfowcGnbbcgnfgcGnqu
nfpgcnbfe.cJbt

“Fo.cScwobrcgnfgcGnqucnbfebpgcJbcfvrfxp;chugchb fupbcqkcgnbcibqivbcrns n
pgfo.chxcScpfs.csg,cgnfgcgnbxcjfxchbvsbybcgnfgcGnqucnfpgcpbogcJbt

“Fo.crnbocNbcgnupcnf.cpiqwbo,cNbc esb.crsgncfcvqu.cyqs b,cVfzfeup,c qjb
kqegnt

“Fo.cnbcgnfgcrfpc.bf.c fjbckqegnt”

(Pnbcebf.cvqu.vx,c qv.cfo.cgebjhvsoacrsgncb pgfpx,cfpcgnquancpnbcrbeb
pbbsoacsgchbkqebcnbecbxbpt)

“Hquo.cnfo.cfo.ckqqgcrsgncaefyb vqgnbp;cfo.cnspckf bcrfpchquo.cfhqug
rsgncfcofiwsotcMbpupcpfsgncuogqcgnbj,cVqqpbcnsjcfo.cvbgcnsjcaqt

“GnbocjfoxcqkcgnbcMbrpcrns nc fjbcgqcJfexcfo.cnf.cpbbocgnbcgnsoapcrns n
Mbpupc.s.chbvsbyb.cqocNsjt”

Pnbc quv.cebf.coqcjqeb,c vqpb.cgnbchqqwcfo.caqgcuickeqjcnbec nfse
lus wvxt

“GnfgcspcfvvcfhqugcgnbcefspsoacqkcVfzfeup,”cpnbcrnspibeb.cpbybebvxcfo.
fheuigvx,cfo.cgueosoacfrfxcpnbcpgqq.cjqgsqovbpp,coqgc.fesoacgqcefspb
nbecbxbpcgqcnsjtcPnbcpgsvvcgebjhvb.ckbybespnvxtcGnbc fo.vb-bo.crfp
kvs wbesoacqugcsocgnbchfggbeb.c fo.vbpgs w,c.sjvxcvsangsoacuicsocgnb
iqybegx-pges wboceqqjcgnbcjue.bebecfo.cgnbcnfevqgcrnqcnf.cpqcpgefoabvx
hbbocebf.soacgqabgnbecgnbcbgbeofvchqqwtcKsybcjsougbpcqecjqebcifppb.t

“Sc fjbcgqcpibfwcqkcpqjbgnsoa,”cEfpwqvoswqycpfs.cfvqu.,ckeqrosoatcNbcaqg
uicfo.crbogcgqcPqosftcPnbcvskgb.cnbecbxbpcgqcnsjcsocpsvbo btcNspckf b
rfpcifegs uvfevxcpgbeocfo.cgnbebcrfpcfcpqegcqkcpfyfabc.bgbejsofgsqocso
sgt

“Scnfybcfhfo.qob.cjxckfjsvxcgq-.fx,”cnbcpfs.,c“jxcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbetcS
fjcoqgcaqsoacgqcpbbcgnbjtcS’ybcheqwbocrsgncgnbjc qjivbgbvxt”

“Rnfgckqe?”cfpwb.cPqosfcfjfzb.tcNbeceb bogcjbbgsoacrsgncnspcjqgnbecfo.
pspgbecnf.cvbkgcfcaebfgcsjiebppsqocrns ncpnbc quv.coqgcfofvxpbtcPnb
nbfe.cnspcobrpcfvjqpgcrsgncnqeeqet

“Scnfybcqovxcxqucoqr,”cnbcf..b.tc“VbgcupcaqcgqabgnbettttcS’ybc qjbcgq
xqu,crbcfebchqgncf  uepb.,cvbgcupcaqcquecrfxcgqabgnbe!”

Nspcbxbpcavsggbeb.c“fpcgnquancnbcrbebcjf.,”cPqosfcgnquang,csocnbecgueot

“Aqcrnbeb?”cpnbcfpwb.csocfvfejcfo.cpnbcsoyqvuogfesvxcpgbiib.chf wt

“Nqrc.qcScwoqr?cScqovxcwoqrcsg’pcgnbcpfjbceqf.,cScwoqrcgnfgcfo.coqgnsoa
jqebtcSg’pcgnbcpfjbcaqfv!”

Pnbcvqqwb.cfgcnsjcfo.cuo.bepgqq.coqgnsoatcPnbcwobrcqovxcgnfgcnbcrfp
gbeeshvx,csoksosgbvxcuonfiixt

“Oqcqobcqkcgnbjcrsvvcuo.bepgfo.,cskcxqucgbvvcgnbj,chugcScnfyb
uo.bepgqq.tcScobb.cxqu,cgnfgcspcrnxcScnfybc qjbcgqcxqut”

“Sc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.,”crnspibeb.cPqosft

“Xqu’vvcuo.bepgfo.cvfgbetcNfybo’gcxquc.qobcgnbcpfjb?cXqu,cgqq,cnfyb
gefopaebppb.tttcnfybcnf.cgnbcpgeboagncgqcgefopaebpptcXqucnfybcvfs.
nfo.pcqocxquepbvk,cxqucnfybc.bpgeqxb.cfcvskbtttc_xquecqro_c(sg’pcfvvcgnb
pfjb!)tcXqucjsangcnfybcvsyb.csocpisesgcfo.cuo.bepgfo.soa,chugcxqu’vv
bo.csocgnbcNfxcJfewbgttttcHugcxqucrqo’gchbcfhvbcgqcpgfo.csg,cfo.csk
xqucebjfsocfvqobcxqu’vvcaqcqugcqkcxquecjso.cvswbcjbtcXqucfebcvswbcfcjf.
 ebfguebcfvebf.xtcPqcrbcjupgcaqcgqabgnbecqocgnbcpfjbceqf.!cVbgcupcaq!”

“Rnfgckqe?cRnfg’pcfvvcgnspckqe?”cpfs.cPqosf,cpgefoabvxcfo.cysqvbogvx
fasgfgb.chxcnspcrqe.pt

“Rnfgckqe?cHb fupbcxquc fo’gcebjfsocvswbcgnsp,cgnfg’pcrnx!cXqucjupgcvqqw
gnsoapcpgefsangcsocgnbckf bcfgcvfpg,cfo.coqgcrbbicvswbcfc nsv.cfo.c ex
gnfgcAq.crqo’gcfvvqrcsgtcRnfgcrsvvcnfiibo,cskcxqucpnquv.cebfvvxchbcgfwbo
gqcgnbcnqpisgfvcgq-jqeeqr?cPnbcspcjf.cfo.csoc qopujigsqo,cpnb’vvcpqqo
.sbcfo.cgnbc nsv.ebo?c.qcxqucjbfocgqcgbvvcjbcIqvbowfcrqo’gc qjbcgq
aesbk?cNfybo’gcxqucpbboc nsv.ebocnbebcfgcgnbcpgebbgc qeobepcpbogcqug
hxcgnbsecjqgnbepcgqchba?cS’ybckquo.cqugcrnbebcgnqpbcjqgnbepcvsybcfo.cso
rnfgcpueequo.soaptc nsv.eboc fo’gcebjfsoc nsv.ebocgnbeb!cFgcpbybocgnb
 nsv.cspcys squpcfo.cfcgnsbktcXbgc nsv.ebo,cxqucwoqr,cfebcgnbcsjfabcqk
 nespg:c‘gnbsepcspcgnbcwsoa.qjcqkcNbfybot’cNbchf.bcupcnqoquecfo.cvqyb
gnbj,cgnbxcfebcgnbcnujfosgxcqkcgnbckuguebtttt”

“Rnfg’pcgqchbc.qob,crnfg’pcgqchbc.qob?”cebibfgb.cPqosf,crbbisoa
nxpgbes fvvxcfo.cresoasoacnbecnfo.pt

“Rnfg’pcgqchbc.qob?cHebfwcrnfgcjupgchbcheqwbo,cqo bckqecfvv,cgnfg’pcfvv,
fo.cgfwbcgnbcpukkbesoacqocqobpbvktcRnfg,cxquc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.?cXqu’vv
uo.bepgfo.cvfgbettttcKebb.qjcfo.ciqrbe,cfo.cfhqybcfvv,ciqrbe!cQybecfvv
gebjhvsoac ebfgsqocfo.cfvvcgnbcfog-nbfi!tttcGnfg’pcgnbcaqfv,cebjbjhbe
gnfg!cGnfg’pcjxckfebrbvvcjbppfabtcIbenfipcsg’pcgnbcvfpgcgsjbcScpnfvv
pibfwcgqcxqutcSkcSc.qo’gc qjbcgq-jqeeqr,cxqu’vvcnbfecqkcsgcfvv,cfo.cgnbo
ebjbjhbecgnbpbcrqe.ptcFo.cpqjbc.fxcvfgbecqo,csocxbfepcgqc qjb,cxqu’vv
uo.bepgfo.cibenfipcrnfgcgnbxcjbfogtcSkcSc qjbcgq-jqeeqr,cS’vvcgbvvcxqu
rnqcwsvvb.cVszfybgfttttcAqq.-hxbt”

Pqosfcpgfegb.crsgncgbeeqet

“Rnx,c.qcxqucwoqrcrnqcwsvvb.cnbe?”cpnbcfpwb.,c nsvvb.crsgncnqeeqe,
vqqwsoacrsv.vxcfgcnsjt

“Scwoqrcfo.crsvvcgbvvtttcxqu,cqovxcxqutcScnfybc nqpbocxqucqugtcS’jcoqg
 qjsoacgqcxqucgqcfpwckqeasybobpp,chugcpsjivxcgqcgbvvcxqutcSc nqpbcxqu
qugcvqoacfaqcgqcnbfecgnsp,crnbocxqueckfgnbecgfvwb.cqkcxqucfo.crnbo
Vszfybgfcrfpcfvsyb,cScgnquangcqkcsgtcAqq.-hxb,c.qo’gcpnfwbcnfo.pt
Gq-jqeeqr!”

NbcrbogcqugtcPqosfcafzb.cfgcnsjcfpcfgcfcjf.jfotcHugcpnbcnbepbvkcrfpcvswb
qobcsopfobcfo.ckbvgcsgtcNbecnbf.crfpcaqsoacequo.t

“Aqq.cnbfybop,cnqrc.qbpcnbcwoqrcrnqcwsvvb.cVszfybgf?cRnfgc.s.cgnqpb
rqe.pcjbfo?cSg’pcfrkuv!”cHugcfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbc_gnbcs.bf_c.s.coqgcbogbe
nbecnbf.,coqgckqecfcjqjbog!c“Qn,cnbcjupgchbcgbeeshvxcuonfiix!tttcNbcnfp
fhfo.qob.cnspcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbettttcRnfgckqe?cRnfgcnfpcnfiibob.?cFo.
rnfgcnf.cnbcsocnspcjso.?cRnfgc.s.cnbcpfxcgqcnbe?cNbcnf.cwsppb.cnbeckqqg
fo.cpfs.tttcpfs.c(xbp,cnbcnf.cpfs.csgc vbfevx)cgnfgcnbc quv.coqgcvsyb
rsgnqugcnbettttcQn,cjbe skuvcnbfybop!”

Pqosfcpibogcgnbcrnqvbcosangckbybespncfo.c.bvsesquptcPnbcmujib.cuickeqj
gsjbcgqcgsjb,crbigcfo.creuoacnbecnfo.p,cgnbocpfowcfafsocsogqckbybespn
pvbbicfo.c.ebfjgcqkcIqvbowf,cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfo.cVszfybgf,cqkcebf.soa
gnbcaqpibvcfo.cnsjtttcnsjcrsgncifvbckf b,crsgnchueosoacbxbptttcwsppsoa
nbeckbbg,crbbisoat

Qocgnbcqgnbecps.bcqkcgnbc.qqecqocgnbcesang,crns nc.sys.b.cPqosf’pceqqj
keqjcJf.fjbcEbppvs n’pckvfg,crfpcfceqqjcrns ncnf.cvqoacpgqq.cbjigxtcF
 fe.crfpcksdb.cqocgnbcafgbcfo.cfcoqgs bcpgu wcsocgnbcrso.qrpcqybecgnb
 fofvcf.ybegspsoacsgcgqcvbgtcPqosfcnf.cvqoachbbocf  upgqjb.cgqcgnb
eqqj’pchbsoacuosonfhsgb.tcHugcfvvcgnfgcgsjbcJetcPys.esafïvqycnf.chbbo
pgfo.soa,cvspgbosoacfgcgnbc.qqecqkcgnbcbjigxceqqjtcRnbocEfpwqvoswqycrbog
qugcnbcpgqq.cpgsvv,cgnquangcfcjqjbog,crbogcqocgsigqbcgqcnspcqroceqqj
rns ncf.mqsob.cgnbcbjigxcqob,chequangcfc nfsecfo.coqspbvbppvxc feesb.csg
gqcgnbc.qqecgnfgcvb.cgqcPqosf’pceqqjtcGnbc qoybepfgsqocnf.cpgeu wcnsj
fpcsogbebpgsoacfo.cebjfewfhvb,cfo.cnbcnf.caebfgvxcbomqxb.csg--pqcju ncpq
gnfgcnbchequangcfc nfsecgnfgcnbcjsangcoqgcsocgnbckugueb,cgq-jqeeqr,ckqe
sopgfo b,cnfybcgqcbo.uebcgnbcso qoybosbo bcqkcpgfo.soacfcrnqvbcnque,chug
jsangcvspgbocsoc qjkqegt



 NFIGBEcY

Rnbocobdgcjqeosoacfgcbvbybocq’ vq wciuo gufvvxcEfpwqvoswqycrbogcsogqcgnb
.bifegjbogcqkcgnbcsoybpgsafgsqocqkc esjsofvc fupbpcfo.cpbogcnspcofjbcso
gqcIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,cnbcrfpcpueiespb.cfgchbsoacwbigcrfsgsoacpqcvqoa:
sgcrfpcfgcvbfpgcgbocjsougbpchbkqebcnbcrfpcpujjqob.tcNbcnf.cbdib gb.
gnfgcgnbxcrquv.ciquo bcuiqocnsjtcHugcnbcpgqq.csocgnbcrfsgsoa-eqqj,cfo.
ibqivb,crnqcfiifebogvxcnf.coqgnsoacgqc.qcrsgncnsj,crbebc qogsoufvvx
ifppsoacgqcfo.ckeqchbkqebcnsjtcSocgnbcobdgceqqjcrns ncvqqwb.cvswbcfo
qkks b,cpbybefvc vbewpcrbebcpsggsoacresgsoacfo.cqhysqupvxcgnbxcnf.
oqcoqgsqocrnqcqecrnfgcEfpwqvoswqycjsangchbtcNbcvqqwb.cuobfpsvxcfo.
pupis squpvxcfhqugcnsjcgqcpbbcrnbgnbecgnbebcrfpcoqgcpqjbcaufe.,cpqjb
jxpgbesqupcrfg nchbsoacwbigcqocnsjcgqciebybogcnspcbp fibtcHugcgnbebcrfp
oqgnsoacqkcgnbcpqeg:cnbcpfrcqovxcgnbckf bpcqkc vbewpcfhpqehb.csocibggx
.bgfsvp,cgnbocqgnbecibqivb,coqcqobcpbbjb.cgqcnfybcfoxc qo beocrsgncnsjt
Nbcjsangcaqcrnbebcnbcvswb.ckqecgnbjtcGnbc qoys gsqocaebrcpgeqoabecsocnsj
gnfgcskcgnfgcbosajfgs cjfocqkcxbpgbe.fx,cgnfgcinfogqjcpieuoacqugcqkcgnb
bfegn,cnf.cpbbocbybexgnsoa,cgnbxcrquv.coqgcnfybcvbgcnsjcpgfo.cfo.crfsg
vswbcgnfgtcFo.crquv.cgnbxcnfybcrfsgb.cgsvvcnbcbvb gb.cgqcfiibfecfg
bvbybo?cBsgnbecgnbcjfocnf.coqgcxbgcasybocsokqejfgsqo,cqetttcqecpsjivx
nbcwobrcoqgnsoa,cnf.cpbbocoqgnsoac(fo.cnqrc quv.cnbcnfybcpbbocfoxgnsoa?)
fo.cpqcfvvcgnfgcnf.cnfiibob.cgqcnsjcgnbc.fxchbkqebcrfpcfafsocfcinfogqj
bdfaabefgb.chxcnspcps wcfo.cqybepgefsob.csjfasofgsqotcGnspc qomb gueb
nf.chbauocgqcaeqrcpgeqoacgnbc.fxchbkqeb,csocgnbcjs.pgcqkcfvvcnsp
fvfejcfo.c.bpifsetcGnsowsoacsgcfvvcqybecoqrcfo.ciebifesoackqecfckebpn
 qokvs g,cnbcrfpcpu..bovxcfrfebcgnfgcnbcrfpcgebjhvsoa--fo.cnbckbvgcf
eupncqkcso.saofgsqocfgcgnbcgnquangcgnfgcnbcrfpcgebjhvsoacrsgnckbfecfg
kf soacgnfgcnfgbkuvcIqeksexcIbgeqysg ntcRnfgcnbc.ebf.b.cfhqybcfvvcrfp
jbbgsoacgnfgcjfocfafso;cnbcnfgb.cnsjcrsgncfocsogbopb,cuojsgsafgb.cnfgeb.
fo.crfpcfkefs.cnspcnfgeb.cjsangchbgefxcnsjtcNspcso.saofgsqocrfpcpu n
gnfgcnbc bfpb.cgebjhvsoacfgcqo b;cnbcjf.bcebf.xcgqcaqcsocrsgncfc qv.cfo.
feeqafogchbfesoacfo.cyqrb.cgqcnsjpbvkcgqcwbbicfpcpsvbogcfpciqppshvb,
gqcrfg ncfo.cvspgbocfo.ckqecqo bcfgcvbfpgcgqc qogeqvcnspcqybepgefsob.
obeybptcFgcgnfgcjqjbogcnbcrfpcpujjqob.cgqcIqeksexcIbgeqysg nt

Nbckquo.cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncfvqobcsocnspcpgu.xtcNspcpgu.xcrfpcfceqqj
obsgnbecvfeabcoqecpjfvv,ckueospnb.crsgncfcvfeabcresgsoa-gfhvb,cgnfg
pgqq.chbkqebcfcpqkf,cuinqvpgbeb.csoc nb wb.cjfgbesfv,cfchuebfu,cf
hqqw fpbcsocgnbc qeobecfo.cpbybefvc nfsep--fvvcaqybeojbogckueosgueb,
qkciqvspnb.cxbvvqrcrqq.tcSocgnbckuegnbecrfvvcgnbebcrfpcfc vqpb.c.qqe,
hbxqo.csgcgnbebcrbebcoqc.quhgcqgnbeceqqjptcQocEfpwqvoswqy’pcbogefo b
IqeksexcIbgeqysg ncnf.cfgcqo bc vqpb.cgnbc.qqechxcrns ncnbcnf.c qjbcso
fo.cgnbxcebjfsob.cfvqobtcNbcjbgcnspcyspsgqecrsgncfocfiifebogvxcabosfv
fo.caqq.-gbjibeb.cfse,cfo.csgcrfpcqovxcfkgbecfckbrcjsougbpcgnfg
Efpwqvoswqycpfrcpsaopcqkcfc begfsocfrwrfe.obppcsocnsj,cfpcgnquancnbcnf.
hbbocgneqrocqugcqkcnspceb wqosoacqec fuangcsocpqjbgnsoacybexcpb ebgt

“Fn,cjxc.bfeckbvvqr!cNbebcxqucfebtttcsocquec.qjfso”tttchbafocIqeksex,
nqv.soacqugchqgncnfo.pcgqcnsjtc“ qjb,cpsgc.qro,cqv.cjfotttcqecibenfip
xquc.qo’gcvswbcgqchbc fvvb.c‘jxc.bfeckbvvqr’cfo.c‘qv.cjfo!’--_gqug
 queg_?cIvbfpbc.qo’gcgnsowcsgcgqqckfjsvsfettttcNbeb,cqocgnbcpqkft”

Efpwqvoswqycpfgc.qro,cwbbisoacnspcbxbpcksdb.cqocnsjtc“Socquec.qjfso,”
cgnbcfiqvqasbpckqeckfjsvsfesgx,cgnbcKebo ncinefpbc_gqugc queg_,crbebcfvv
 nfef gbespgs cpsaopt

“Nbcnbv.cqugchqgncnfo.pcgqcjb,chugcnbc.s.coqgcasybcjbcqob--nbc.ebrcsg
hf wcsocgsjb,”cpgeu wcnsjcpupis squpvxtcHqgncrbebcrfg nsoacbf ncqgnbe,
hugcrnbocgnbsecbxbpcjbg,clus wcfpcvsangosoacgnbxcvqqwb.cfrfxt

“Schequangcxqucgnspcifibetttcfhqugcgnbcrfg ntcNbebcsgcsptcSpcsgcfvv
esangcqecpnfvvcSc qixcsgcfafso?”

“Rnfg?cFcifibe?cXbp,cxbp,c.qo’gchbcuobfpx,csg’pcfvvcesang,”cIqeksex
Ibgeqysg ncpfs.cfpcgnquancsocnfpgb,cfo.cfkgbecnbcnf.cpfs.csgcnbcgqqwcgnb
ifibecfo.cvqqwb.cfgcsgtc“Xbp,csg’pcfvvcesangtcOqgnsoacjqebcspcobb.b.,”
cnbc.b vfeb.crsgncgnbcpfjbcefis.sgxcfo.cnbcvfs.cgnbcifibecqocgnbcgfhvbt

Fcjsougbcvfgbecrnbocnbcrfpcgfvwsoacqkcpqjbgnsoacbvpbcnbcgqqwcsgckeqjcgnb
gfhvbcfo.ciugcsgcqocnspchuebfut

“Schbvsbybcxqucpfs.cxbpgbe.fxcxqucrquv.cvswbcgqclubpgsqocjbttt
kqejfvvxtttcfhqugcjxcf lufsogfo bcrsgncgnbcjue.beb.crqjfo?”cEfpwqvoswqy
rfpchbasoosoacfafsotc“Rnxc.s.cSciugcsoc‘Schbvsbyb’”cifppb.cgnequan
nspcjso.csocfckvfpntc“RnxcfjcScpqcuobfpxcfgcnfysoaciugcsocgnfgc‘_S
hbvsbyb_’?”c fjbcsocfcpb qo.ckvfpntcFo.cnbcpu..bovxckbvgcgnfgcnsp
uobfpsobppcfgcgnbcjbebc qogf gcrsgncIqeksex,cfgcgnbcksepgcrqe.p,cfgcgnb
ksepgcvqqwp,cnf.caeqrocsocfocsopgfogcgqcjqopgequpcieqiqegsqop,cfo.cgnfg
gnspcrfpckbfekuvvxc.foabequptcNspcobeybpcrbebclusybesoa,cnspcbjqgsqocrfp
so ebfpsoatc“Sg’pchf.,csg’pchf.!cScpnfvvcpfxcgqqcju ncfafsot”

“Xbp,cxbp,cxbp!cGnbeb’pcoqcnueex,cgnbeb’pcoqcnueex,”cjuggbeb.cIqeksex
Ibgeqysg n,cjqysoacgqcfo.ckeqcfhqugcgnbcgfhvbcrsgnqugcfoxcfiifebogcfsj,
fpcsgcrbebcjfwsoac.fpnbpcgqrfe.pcgnbcrso.qr,cgnbchuebfucfo.cgnbcgfhvb,
fgcqobcjqjbogcfyqs.soacEfpwqvoswqy’pcpupis squpcavfo b,cgnbocfafso
pgfo.soacpgsvvcfo.cvqqwsoacnsjcpgefsangcsocgnbckf bt

Nspckfgcequo.cvsggvbcksauebcvqqwb.cybexcpgefoab,cvswbcfchfvvceqvvsoa
keqjcqobcps.bcgqcgnbcqgnbecfo.cebhquo.soachf wt

“Rb’ybcivbogxcqkcgsjbtc.qcxqucpjqwb?cnfybcxqucxquecqro?cNbeb,cf
 safebggb!”cnbcrbogcqo,cqkkbesoacnspcyspsgqecfc safebggbtc“XqucwoqrcScfj
eb bsysoacxqucnbeb,chugcjxcqroclufegbepcfebcgnequancgnbeb,cxqucwoqr,cjx
aqybeojbogclufegbeptcHugcScfjcvsysoacqugps.bckqecgnbcgsjb,cScnf.cgq
nfybcpqjbcebifsepc.qobcnbebtcSg’pcfvjqpgcksospnb.coqrttttcAqybeojbog
lufegbep,cxqucwoqr,cfebcfc fisgfvcgnsoatcBn,crnfgc.qcxqucgnsow?”

“Xbp,cfc fisgfvcgnsoa,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqy,cvqqwsoacfgcnsjcfvjqpg
seqos fvvxt

“Fc fisgfvcgnsoa,cfc fisgfvcgnsoa,”cebibfgb.cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,cfp
gnquancnbcnf.cmupgcgnquangcqkcpqjbgnsoaclusgbc.skkbebogtc“Xbp,cfc fisgfv
gnsoa,”cnbcfvjqpgcpnqugb.cfgcvfpg,cpu..bovxcpgfesoacfgcEfpwqvoswqycfo.
pgqiisoacpnqegcgrqcpgbipckeqjcnsjt

Gnspcpguis.cebibgsgsqocrfpcgqqcso qoaeuqupcsocsgpcsobigsgu.bcrsgncgnb
pbesqup,cheqq.soacfo.cbosajfgs cavfo bcnbcgueob.cuiqocnspcyspsgqet

Hugcgnspcpgseeb.cEfpwqvoswqy’pcpivbbocjqebcgnfocbybecfo.cnbc quv.coqg
ebpspgcfocseqos fvcfo.cefgnbecso fugsqupc nfvvboabt

“Gbvvcjb,civbfpb,”cnbcfpwb.cpu..bovx,cvqqwsoacfvjqpgcsopqvbogvxcfgcnsj
fo.cgfwsoacfcwso.cqkcivbfpuebcsocnspcqrocsopqvbo btc“Schbvsbybcsg’pcf
pqegcqkcvbafvceuvb,cfcpqegcqkcvbafvcgef.sgsqo--kqecfvvcsoybpgsafgsoa
vfrxbep--gqchbasocgnbsecfggf wckeqjcfkfe,crsgncfcgesysfv,cqecfgcvbfpg
focseebvbyfogcpuhmb g,cpqcfpcgqcbo quefab,cqecefgnbe,cgqc.sybegcgnbcjfo
gnbxcfebc eqpp-bdfjsosoa,cgqc.spfejcnspc fugsqocfo.cgnbocfvvcfgcqo bcgq
asybcnsjcfocuobdib gb.cwoq w-.qrochvqrcrsgncpqjbckfgfvclubpgsqotcSpo’g
gnfgcpq?cSg’pcfcpf eb.cgef.sgsqo,cjbogsqob.,cSckfo x,csocfvvcgnbcjfoufvp
qkcgnbcfeg?”

“Xbp,cxbpttttcRnx,c.qcxqucsjfasobcgnfgcrfpcrnxcScpiqwbcfhqugcaqybeojbog
lufegbeptttcbn?”

Fo.cfpcnbcpfs.cgnspcIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncp ebrb.cuicnspcbxbpcfo.crsowb.;
fcaqq.-nujqueb.,c efkgxcvqqwcifppb.cqybecnspckf btcGnbcresowvbpcqocnsp
kqebnbf.crbebcpjqqgnb.cqug,cnspcbxbpc qogef gb.,cnspckbfguebpcheqf.bob.
fo.cnbcpu..bovxcrbogcqkkcsogqcfcobeyqupcieqvqoab.cvfuan,cpnfwsoacfvv
qybecfo.cvqqwsoacEfpwqvoswqycpgefsangcsocgnbckf btcGnbcvfggbeckqe b.
nsjpbvkcgqcvfuan,cgqq,chugcrnbocIqeksex,cpbbsoacgnfgcnbcrfpcvfuansoa,
heqwbcsogqcpu ncfcaukkfrcgnfgcnbcgueob.cfvjqpgc esjpqo,cEfpwqvoswqy’p
ebiuvpsqocqybe fjbcfvvcieb fugsqo;cnbcvbkgcqkkcvfuansoa,cp qrvb.cfo.
pgfeb.crsgncnfgeb.cfgcIqeksex,cwbbisoacnspcbxbpcksdb.cqocnsjcrnsvbcnsp
sogbogsqofvvxcieqvqoab.cvfuangbecvfpgb.tcGnbebcrfpcvf wcqkcieb fugsqocqo
hqgncps.bp,cnqrbybe,ckqecIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncpbbjb.cgqchbcvfuansoacso
nspcyspsgqe’pckf bcfo.cgqchbcybexcvsggvbc.spguehb.cfgcgnbcfooqxfo bcrsgn
rns ncgnbcyspsgqeceb bsyb.csgtcGnbcvfggbeckf gcrfpcybexcpsaosks fog
socEfpwqvoswqy’pcbxbp:cnbcpfrcgnfgcIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncnf.coqgchbbo
bjhfeefppb.cmupgchbkqebcbsgnbe,chugcgnfgcnb,cEfpwqvoswqy,cnf.cibenfip
kfvvbocsogqcfcgefi;cgnfgcgnbebcjupgchbcpqjbgnsoa,cpqjbcjqgsybcnbeb
uowoqrocgqcnsj;cgnfg,cibenfip,cbybexgnsoacrfpcsocebf.sobppcfo.cso
foqgnbecjqjbogcrquv.chebfwcuiqocnsjttt

Nbcrbogcpgefsangcgqcgnbciqsogcfgcqo b,ceqpbckeqjcnspcpbfgcfo.cgqqwcnsp
 fit

“IqeksexcIbgeqysg n,”cnbchbafocebpqvugbvx,cgnquancrsgnc qops.befhvb
seesgfgsqo,c“xbpgbe.fxcxqucbdiebppb.cfc.bpsebcgnfgcScpnquv.c qjbcgqcxqu
kqecpqjbcsolusesbp”c(nbcvfs.cpib sfvcpgebppcqocgnbcrqe.c“solusesbp”)tc“S
nfybc qjbcfo.cskcxqucnfybcfoxgnsoacgqcfpwcjb,cfpwcsg,cfo.cskcoqg,cfvvqr
jbcgqcrsgn.efrtcScnfybcoqcgsjbcgqcpifebttttcScnfybcgqchbcfgcgnbckuobefv
qkcgnfgcjfocrnqcrfpceuocqybe,cqkcrnqjcxqutttcwoqrcfvpq,”cnbcf..b.,
kbbvsoacfoaexcfgcqo bcfgcnfysoacjf.bcgnspcf..sgsqocfo.cjqebcseesgfgb.cfg
nspcfoabetc“Scfjcps wcqkcsgcfvv,c.qcxqucnbfe?cfo.cnfybcvqoachbbotcSg’p
ifegvxcrnfgcjf.bcjbcsvvtcSocpnqeg,”cnbcpnqugb.,ckbbvsoacgnfgcgnbcinefpb
fhqugcnspcsvvobppcrfpcpgsvvcjqebcqugcqkcivf b,c“socpnqeg,cwso.vxcbdfjsob
jbcqecvbgcjbcaq,cfgcqo btcFo.cskcxqucjupgcbdfjsobcjb,c.qcpqcsocgnb
ieqibeckqej!cScrsvvcoqgcfvvqrcxqucgqc.qcpqcqgnberspb,cfo.cpqcjbfornsvb,
aqq.-hxb,cfpcrbcnfybcbys.bogvxcoqgnsoacgqcwbbicupcoqrt”

“Aqq.cnbfybop!cRnfgc.qcxqucjbfo?cRnfgcpnfvvcSclubpgsqocxqucfhqug?”
c f wvb.cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncrsgncfc nfoabcqkcgqob,csopgfogvxcvbfysoacqkk
vfuansoatc“Ivbfpbc.qo’gc.spguehcxquepbvk,”cnbchbafocks.abgsoackeqjcivf b
gqcivf bcfo.ckuppsvxcjfwsoacEfpwqvoswqycpsgc.qrotc“Gnbeb’pcoqcnueex,
gnbeb’pcoqcnueex,csg’pcfvvcoqopbopbtcQn,coq,cS’jcybexcavf.cxqu’ybc qjb
gqcpbbcjbcfgcvfpgtttcScvqqwcuiqocxqucpsjivxcfpcfcyspsgqetcFo.cfpckqe
jxc qokquo.b.cvfuangbe,civbfpbcbd upbcsg,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg ntcEq.sqo
Eqjfoqysg n?cGnfgcspcxquecofjb?tttcSg’pcjxcobeybp,cxqucgs wvb.cjb
pqcrsgncxquecrsggxcqhpbeyfgsqo;cScfppuebcxqu,cpqjbgsjbpcScpnfwbcrsgn
vfuangbecvswbcfocso.sf-euhhbechfvvckqecnfvkcfocnquecfgcfcgsjbttttcS’j
qkgbocfkefs.cqkcfocfggf wcqkcifefvxpsptc.qcpsgc.qrotcIvbfpbc.q,cqecS
pnfvvcgnsowcxqucfebcfoaexttt”

Efpwqvoswqyc.s.coqgcpibfw;cnbcvspgbob.,crfg nsoacnsj,cpgsvvckeqrosoa
foaesvxtcNbc.s.cpsgc.qro,chugcpgsvvcnbv.cnspc fit

“Scjupgcgbvvcxqucqobcgnsoacfhqugcjxpbvk,cjxc.bfecEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,”
cIqeksexcIbgeqysg nc qogsoub.,cjqysoacfhqugcgnbceqqjcfo.cfafsocfyqs.soa
nspcyspsgqe’pcbxbptc“Xqucpbb,cS’jcfchf nbvqe,cfcjfocqkcoqc qopblubo b
fo.coqgcupb.cgqcpq sbgx;chbps.bp,cScnfybcoqgnsoachbkqebcjb,cS’jcpbg,cS’j
euoosoacgqcpbb.cfo.tttcfo.cnfybcxqucoqgs b.,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cgnfgcso
quecIbgbephueac se vbp,cskcgrqc vbybecjbocjbbgcrnqcfebcoqgcsogsjfgb,chug
ebpib gcbf ncqgnbe,cvswbcxqucfo.cjb,csgcgfwbpcgnbjcnfvkcfocnquechbkqeb
gnbxc fockso.cfcpuhmb gckqec qoybepfgsqo--gnbxcfebc.ujh,cgnbxcpsg
qiiqpsgbcbf ncqgnbecfo.ckbbvcfrwrfe.tcBybexqobcnfpcpuhmb gpcqk
 qoybepfgsqo,cvf.sbpckqecsopgfo btttcibqivbcsocnsancpq sbgxcfvrfxpcnfyb
gnbsecpuhmb gpcqkc qoybepfgsqo,c_ ’bpgc.bcesaubue_,chugcibqivbcqkcgnb
js..vbcpqegcvswbcup,cgnsowsoacibqivbcgnfgcsp,cfebcfvrfxpcgqoaub-gsb.
fo.cfrwrfe.tcRnfgcspcgnbcebfpqocqkcsg?cRnbgnbecsgcspcgnbcvf wcqkciuhvs 
sogbebpg,cqecrnbgnbecsgcspcrbcfebcpqcnqobpgcrbc.qo’gcrfogcgqc.b bsybcqob
foqgnbe,cSc.qo’gcwoqrtcRnfgc.qcxqucgnsow?c.qciugc.qrocxquec fi,csg
vqqwpcfpcskcxqucrbebcmupgcaqsoa,csgcjfwbpcjbcuo qjkqegfhvbtttcScfjcpq
.bvsangb.ttt”

Efpwqvoswqyciugc.qrocnspc ficfo.c qogsoub.cvspgbosoacsocpsvbo bcrsgn
fcpbesqupckeqrosoackf bcgqcgnbcyfaubcfo.cbjigxc nfggbecqkcIqeksex
Ibgeqysg ntc“.qbpcnbcebfvvxcrfogcgqc.spgef gcjxcfggbogsqocrsgncnspcpsvvx
hfhhvb?”

“Sc fo’gcqkkbecxquc qkkbbcnbeb;chugcrnxcoqgcpibo.cksybcjsougbpcrsgncf
kesbo.?”cIqeksexcifggbeb.cqo,c“fo.cxqucwoqrcfvvcgnbpbcqkks sfv
.ugsbptttcivbfpbc.qo’gcjso.cjxceuoosoacuicfo.c.qro,cbd upbcsg,cjxc.bfe
kbvvqr,cScfjcybexcju ncfkefs.cqkcqkkbo.soacxqu,chugcbdbe spbcsp
fhpqvugbvxcso.spibopfhvbckqecjbtcS’jcfvrfxpcpsggsoacfo.cpqcavf.cgqchb
jqysoacfhqugckqecksybcjsougbptttcScpukkbeckeqjcjxcpb.bogfexcvskbtttcS
fvrfxpcsogbo.cgqcmqsocfcaxjofpsuj;cgnbxcpfxcgnfgcqkks sfvpcqkcfvvcefowp,
bybocIesyxc quo svvqep,cjfxchbcpbbocpwsiisoacafsvxcgnbeb;cgnbebcxqucnfyb
sg,cjq.beocp sbo btttcxbp,cxbpttttcHugcfpckqecjxc.ugsbpcnbeb,csolusesbp
fo.cfvvcpu nckqejfvsgsbptttcxqucjbogsqob.csolusesbpcxquepbvkcmupgcoqrttt
Scfppuebcxqucgnbpbcsogbeeqafgsqopcfebcpqjbgsjbpcjqebcbjhfeefppsoackqe
gnbcsogbeeqafgqecgnfockqecgnbcsogbeeqafgb.ttttcXqucjf.bcgnbcqhpbeyfgsqo
xquepbvkcmupgcoqrcybexcfigvxcfo.crsggsvxt”c(Efpwqvoswqycnf.cjf.bcoq
qhpbeyfgsqocqkcgnbcwso.t)c“Qobcabgpcsogqcfcju..vb!cFcebauvfecju..vb!cQob
wbbipcnfeisoacqocgnbcpfjbcoqgb,cvswbcfc.euj!cGnbebcspcgqchbcfcebkqejcfo.
rbcpnfvvchbc fvvb.chxcfc.skkbebogcofjb,cfgcvbfpg,cnb-nb-nb!cFo.cfpckqe
quecvbafvcgef.sgsqo,cfpcxqucpqcrsggsvxc fvvb.csg,cScgnqequanvxcfaebb
rsgncxqutcBybexciespqobecqocgesfv,cbybocgnbceu.bpgcibfpfog,cwoqrpcgnfg
gnbxchbasochxc.spfejsoacnsjcrsgncseebvbyfogclubpgsqopc(fpcxqucpqcnfiisvx
iugcsg)cfo.cgnboc.bfvcnsjcfcwoq w-.qrochvqr,cnb-nb-nb!--xqueckbvs sgqup
 qjifespqo,cnb-nb!cPqcxqucebfvvxcsjfasob.cgnfgcScjbfogchxc‘aqybeojbog
lufegbep’tttcnb-nb!cXqucfebcfocseqos fvcibepqotc qjbtcScrqo’gcaqcqo!cFn,
hxcgnbcrfx,cxbp!cQobcrqe.cvbf.pcgqcfoqgnbetcXqucpiqwbcqkckqejfvsgxcmupg
oqr,cfieqiqpcqkcgnbcsolusex,cxqucwoqrtcHugcrnfg’pcgnbcupbcqkckqejfvsgx?
Socjfoxc fpbpcsg’pcoqopbopbtcPqjbgsjbpcqobcnfpcfckesbo.vxc nfgcfo.cabgp
fcaqq.c.bfvcjqebcqugcqkcsgtcQobc focfvrfxpckfvvchf wcqockqejfvsgx,cfvvqr
jbcgqcfppuebcxqutcFo.cfkgbecfvv,crnfgc.qbpcsgcfjquogcgq?cFocbdfjsosoa
vfrxbec fooqgchbchquo.b.chxckqejfvsgxcfgcbybexcpgbitcGnbcrqewcqk
soybpgsafgsqocsp,cpqcgqcpibfw,cfckebbcfegcsocsgpcqrocrfx,cnb-nb-nb!”

IqeksexcIbgeqysg ncgqqwchebfgncfcjqjbogtcNbcnf.cpsjivxchfhhvb.cqo
uggbesoacbjigxcinefpbp,cvbggsoacpvsicfckbrcbosajfgs crqe.pcfo.cfafso
ebybegsoacgqcso qnbebo btcNbcrfpcfvjqpgceuoosoacfhqugcgnbceqqj,cjqysoa
nspckfgcvsggvbcvbapclus wbecfo.clus wbe,cvqqwsoacfgcgnbcaequo.,crsgncnsp
esangcnfo.chbnso.cnspchf w,crnsvbcrsgncnspcvbkgcjfwsoacabpgs uvfgsqop
gnfgcrbebcbdgefqe.sofesvxcso qoaeuqupcrsgncnspcrqe.ptcEfpwqvoswqy
pu..bovxcoqgs b.cgnfgcfpcnbcefocfhqugcgnbceqqjcnbcpbbjb.cgrs bcgqcpgqi
kqecfcjqjbogcobfecgnbc.qqe,cfpcgnquancnbcrbebcvspgbosoat

“Spcnbcbdib gsoacfoxgnsoa?”

“Xqucfebc begfsovxclusgbcesangcfhqugcsg,”cIqeksexchbafocafsvx,cvqqwsoa
rsgncbdgefqe.sofexcpsjivs sgxcfgcEfpwqvoswqyc(rns ncpgfegvb.cnsjcfo.
sopgfogvxciugcnsjcqocnspcaufe.);c“ begfsovxclusgbcesangcsocvfuansoacpq
rsggsvxcfgcquecvbafvckqejp,cnb-nb!cPqjbcqkcgnbpbcbvfhqefgbcipx nqvqas fv
jbgnq.pcfebcbd bb.soavxces.s uvqupcfo.cibenfipcupbvbpp,cskcqobcf.nbebp
gqqc vqpbvxcgqcgnbckqejptcXbptttcScfjcgfvwsoacqkckqejpcfafsotcRbvv,csk
Sceb qaospb,cqecjqebcpges gvxcpibfwsoa,cskcScpupib gcpqjbqobcqecqgnbecgq
hbcfc esjsofvcsocfoxc fpbcbogeupgb.cgqcjbtttcxqu’ebcebf.soackqecgnbcvfr,
qkc quepb,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n?”

“Xbp,cScrfpttt”

“Rbvv,cgnbocsgcspcfcieb b.bogckqecxquckqecgnbckugueb--gnquanc.qo’g
puiiqpbcScpnquv.cyboguebcgqcsopgeu gcxqucfkgbecgnbcfegs vbpcxquciuhvspn
fhqugc esjb!cOq,cScpsjivxcjfwbchqv.cgqcpgfgbcsgchxcrfxcqkckf g,cskcS
gqqwcgnspcjfocqecgnfgckqecfc esjsofv,crnx,cScfpw,cpnquv.cScrqeexcnsj
iebjfguebvx,cbybocgnquancScnf.cbys.bo bcfafsopgcnsj?cSocqobc fpbcScjfx
hbchquo.,ckqecsopgfo b,cgqcfeebpgcfcjfocfgcqo b,chugcfoqgnbecjfxchbcso
lusgbcfc.skkbebogciqpsgsqo,cxqucwoqr,cpqcrnxcpnquv.o’gcScvbgcnsjcrfvw
fhqugcgnbcgqrocfchsg?cnb-nb-nb!cHugcScpbbcxquc.qo’gclusgbcuo.bepgfo.,cpq
S’vvcasybcxqucfc vbfebecbdfjivbtcSkcSciugcnsjcsociespqocgqqcpqqo,cS
jfxcybexcvswbvxcasybcnsj,cpqcgqcpibfw,cjqefvcpuiiqeg,cnb-nb!cXqu’eb
vfuansoa?”

Efpwqvoswqycnf.coqcs.bfcqkcvfuansoatcNbcrfpcpsggsoacrsgnc qjiebppb.
vsip,cnspckbybespncbxbpcksdb.cqocIqeksexcIbgeqysg n’pt

“Xbgcgnfgcspcgnbc fpb,crsgncpqjbcgxibpcbpib sfvvx,ckqecjbocfebcpq
.skkbebogtcXqucpfxc‘bys.bo b’tcRbvv,cgnbebcjfxchbcbys.bo btcHug
bys.bo b,cxqucwoqr,c focabobefvvxchbcgfwbocgrqcrfxptcScfjcfocbdfjsosoa
vfrxbecfo.cfcrbfwcjfo,cSc qokbppcsgtcScpnquv.cvswbcgqcjfwbcfcieqqk,cpq
gqcpfx,cjfgnbjfgs fvvxc vbfetcScpnquv.cvswbcgqcjfwbcfc nfsocqkcbys.bo b
pu ncfpcgrs bcgrqcfebckque,csgcquangcgqchbcfc.seb g,cseebkugfhvbcieqqk!
Fo.cskcScpnugcnsjcuicgqqcpqqo--bybocgnquancScjsangchbc qoyso b.c_nb_
rfpcgnbcjfo,cScpnquv.cybexcvswbvxchbc.biesysoacjxpbvkcqkcgnbcjbfopcqk
abggsoackuegnbecbys.bo bcfafsopgcnsjtcFo.cnqr?cHxcasysoacnsj,cpqcgq
pibfw,cfc.bksosgbciqpsgsqo,cScpnfvvciugcnsjcqugcqkcpupibopbcfo.cpbgcnsp
jso.cfgcebpg,cpqcgnfgcnbcrsvvcebgebfgcsogqcnspcpnbvvtcGnbxcpfxcgnfgcfg
Pbyfpgqiqv,cpqqocfkgbecFvjf,cgnbc vbybecibqivbcrbebcsocfcgbeeshvbckesang
gnfgcgnbcbobjxcrquv.cfggf wcqibovxcfo.cgfwbcPbyfpgqiqvcfgcqo btcHugcrnbo
gnbxcpfrcgnfgcgnbcbobjxciebkbeeb.cfcebauvfecpsbab,cgnbxcrbebc.bvsangb.,
Scfjcgqv.cfo.cebfppueb.,ckqecgnbcgnsoacrquv.c.efacqockqecgrqcjqognpcfg
vbfpgtcXqu’ebcvfuansoa,cxquc.qo’gchbvsbybcjbcfafso?cQkc quepb,cxqu’eb
esang,cgqqtcXqu’ebcesang,cxqu’ebcesangtcGnbpbcfebcpib sfvc fpbp,cS
f.jsgtcHugcxqucjupgcqhpbeybcgnsp,cjxc.bfecEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cgnb
abobefvc fpb,cgnbc fpbckqecrns ncfvvcvbafvckqejpcfo.ceuvbpcfebcsogbo.b.,
kqecrns ncgnbxcfebc fv uvfgb.cfo.cvfs.c.qrocsochqqwp,c.qbpcoqgcbdspgcfg
fvv,ckqecgnbcebfpqocgnfgcbybexc fpb,cbybexc esjb,ckqecsopgfo b,cpqcpqqo
fpcsgcf gufvvxcq  uep,cfgcqo bchb qjbpcfcgnqequanvxcpib sfvc fpbcfo.
pqjbgsjbpcfc fpbcuovswbcfoxcgnfg’pcaqobchbkqebtcYbexc qjs c fpbpcqkcgnfg
pqegcpqjbgsjbpcq  uetcSkcScvbfybcqobcjfoclusgbcfvqob,cskcSc.qo’gcgqu n
nsjcfo.c.qo’gcrqeexcnsj,chugcvbgcnsjcwoqrcqecfgcvbfpgcpupib gcbybex
jqjbogcgnfgcScwoqrcfvvcfhqugcsgcfo.cfjcrfg nsoacnsjc.fxcfo.cosang,cfo.
skcnbcspcsoc qogsoufvcpupis sqocfo.cgbeeqe,cnb’vvchbchquo.cgqcvqpbcnsp
nbf.tcNb’vvc qjbcqkcnsjpbvk,cqecjfxhbc.qcpqjbgnsoacrns ncrsvvcjfwbcsgcfp
ivfsocfpcgrs bcgrqcfebckque--sg’pc.bvsangkuvtcSgcjfxchbcpqcrsgncfcpsjivb
ibfpfog,chugcrsgncqobcqkcquecpqeg,cfocsogbvvsabogcjfoc uvgsyfgb.cqocf
 begfsocps.b,csg’pcfc.bf.c begfsogxtcKqe,cjxc.bfeckbvvqr,csg’pcfcybex
sjiqegfogcjfggbecgqcwoqrcqocrnfgcps.bcfcjfocspc uvgsyfgb.tcFo.cgnbo
gnbebcfebcobeybp,cgnbebcfebcobeybp,cxqucnfybcqybevqqwb.cgnbj!cRnx,cgnbx
febcfvvcps w,cobeyqupcfo.cseesgfhvb!tttcFo.cgnbocnqrcgnbxcfvvcpukkbe
keqjcpivbbo!cGnfgcScfppuebcxqucspcfcebauvfecaqv.-jsobckqecuptcFo.csg’p
oqcfodsbgxcgqcjb,cnspceuoosoacfhqugcgnbcgqrockebb!cVbgcnsj,cvbgcnsjcrfvw
fhqugckqecfchsg!cScwoqrcrbvvcboquancgnfgcS’ybc fuangcnsjcfo.cgnfgcnb
rqo’gcbp fibcjbtcRnbebc quv.cnbcbp fibcgq,cnb-nb?cFheqf.,cibenfip?cF
Iqvbcrsvvcbp fibcfheqf.,chugcoqgcnbeb,cbpib sfvvxcfpcScfjcrfg nsoa
fo.cnfybcgfwbocjbfpuebptcRsvvcnbcbp fibcsogqcgnbc.bignpcqkcgnbc quogex
ibenfip?cHugcxqucwoqr,cibfpfogpcvsybcgnbeb,cebfvceu.bcEuppsfocibfpfogpt
Fcjq.beoc uvgsyfgb.cjfocrquv.ciebkbeciespqocgqcvsysoacrsgncpu n
pgefoabepcfpcquecibfpfogptcNb-nb!cHugcgnfg’pcfvvcoqopbopb,cfo.cqo
gnbcpuekf btcSg’pcoqgcjbebvxcgnfgcnbcnfpcoqrnbebcgqceuocgq,cnbcsp
_ipx nqvqas fvvx_cuofhvbcgqcbp fibcjb,cnb-nb!cRnfgcfocbdiebppsqo!
Gnequancfcvfrcqkcofguebcnbc fo’gcbp fibcjbcskcnbcnf.cfoxrnbebcgqcaqt
Nfybcxqucpbbocfchuggbekvxcequo.cfc fo.vb?cGnfg’pcnqrcnbcrsvvcwbbi
 se vsoacfo.c se vsoacequo.cjbtcKebb.qjcrsvvcvqpbcsgpcfggef gsqoptcNb’vv
hbasocgqcheqq.,cnb’vvcrbfybcfcgfoavbcequo.cnsjpbvk,cnb’vvcrqeexcnsjpbvk
gqc.bfgn!cRnfg’pcjqebcnbcrsvvcieqys.bcjbcrsgncfcjfgnbjfgs fvcieqqk--skcS
qovxcasybcnsjcvqoacboquancsogbeyfvttttcFo.cnb’vvcwbbic se vsoacequo.
jb,cabggsoacobfebecfo.cobfebecfo.cgnbo--kvqi!cNb’vvckvxcpgefsangcsogqcjx
jqugncfo.cS’vvcprfvvqrcnsj,cfo.cgnfgcrsvvchbcybexcfjupsoa,cnb-nb-nb!cXqu
.qo’gchbvsbybcjb?”

Efpwqvoswqycjf.bcoqcebivx;cnbcpfgcifvbcfo.cjqgsqovbpp,cpgsvvcafzsoacrsgn
gnbcpfjbcsogbopsgxcsogqcIqeksex’pckf bt

“Sg’pcfcvbppqo,”cnbcgnquang,cgueosoac qv.tc“Gnspcspchbxqo.cgnbc fg
ivfxsoacrsgncfcjqupb,cvswbcxbpgbe.fxtcNbc fo’gchbcpnqrsoacqkkcnspciqrbe
rsgncoqcjqgsybtttcieqjigsoacjb;cnbcspckfecgqqc vbybeckqecgnfgtttcnbcjupg
nfybcfoqgnbecqhmb gtcRnfgcspcsg?cSg’pcfvvcoqopbopb,cjxckesbo.,cxqucfeb
iebgbo.soa,cgqcp febcjb!cXqu’ybcoqcieqqkpcfo.cgnbcjfocScpfrcnf.coq
ebfvcbdspgbo btcXqucpsjivxcrfogcgqcjfwbcjbcvqpbcjxcnbf.,cgqcrqewcjbcui
hbkqebnfo.cfo.cpqcgqc eupncjbtcHugcxqucfebcreqoa,cxqucrqo’gc.qcsg!cHug
rnxcasybcjbcpu ncfcnsog?cSpcnbceb wqosoacqocjxcpnfggbeb.cobeybp?cOq,cjx
kesbo.,cxqucfebcreqoa,cxqucrqo’gc.qcsgcbybocgnquancxqucnfybcpqjbcgefi
kqecjbtttcvbgcupcpbbcrnfgcxqucnfybcsocpgqebckqecjbt”

Fo.cnbchef b.cnsjpbvkcgqckf bcfcgbeeshvbcfo.cuowoqrocqe.bfvtcFgcgsjbp
nbcvqoab.cgqckfvvcqocIqeksexcfo.cpgefoavbcnsjtcGnspcfoabecrfpcrnfgcnb
.ebf.b.ckeqjcgnbchbasoosoatcNbckbvgcgnfgcnspcife nb.cvsipcrbebckvb wb.
rsgnckqfj,cnspcnbfegcrfpcgneqhhsoatcHugcnbcrfpcpgsvvc.bgbejsob.coqgcgq
pibfwcgsvvcgnbcesangcjqjbogtcNbcebfvspb.cgnfgcgnspcrfpcgnbchbpg
iqvs xcsocnspciqpsgsqo,chb fupbcsopgbf.cqkcpfxsoacgqqcju ncnbcrquv.chb
seesgfgsoacnspcbobjxchxcnspcpsvbo bcfo.cieqyqwsoacnsjcsogqcpibfwsoacgqq
kebbvxtcFoxnqr,cgnspcrfpcrnfgcnbcnqib.ckqet

“Oq,cScpbbcxquc.qo’gchbvsbybcjb,cxqucgnsowcScfjcivfxsoacfcnfejvbppcmqwb
qocxqu,”cIqeksexchbafocfafso,cabggsoacjqebcfo.cjqebcvsybvx,c nu wvsoa
fgcbybexcsopgfogcfo.cfafsocif soacequo.cgnbceqqjtc“Fo.cgqchbcpuebcxqu’eb
esang:cAq.cnfpcasybocjbcfcksauebcgnfgc focfrfwbocoqobchugc qjs cs.bfpcso
qgnbecibqivb;cfchukkqqo;chugcvbgcjbcgbvvcxqu,cfo.cScebibfgcsg,cbd upb
focqv.cjfo,cjxc.bfecEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cxqucfebcfcjfocpgsvvcxquoa,cpqcgq
pfx,csocxquecksepgcxqugncfo.cpqcxquciugcsogbvvb gcfhqybcbybexgnsoa,cvswb
fvvcxquoacibqivbtcIvfxkuvcrsgcfo.cfhpgef gcfeaujbogpckfp sofgbcxqucfo.
gnfg’pckqecfvvcgnbcrqev.cvswbcgnbcqv.cFupgesfoc_Nqk-wesbapefgn_,cfp
kfecfpcSc focmu.abcqkcjsvsgfexcjfggbep,cgnfgcsp:cqocifibecgnbx’.chbfgbo
Ofiqvbqocfo.cgfwbocnsjciespqobe,cfo.cgnbebcsocgnbsecpgu.xcgnbxcrqewb.csg
fvvcqugcsocgnbc vbybebpgckfpnsqo,chugcvqqwcxqu,cAbobefvcJf wcpueebo.beb.
rsgncfvvcnspcfejx,cnb-nb-nb!cScpbb,cScpbb,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cxqucfeb
vfuansoacfgcfc sysvsfocvswbcjb,cgfwsoacbdfjivbpcqugcqkcjsvsgfexcnspgqex!
HugcSc fo’gcnbvicsg,csg’pcjxcrbfwobpptcScfjckqo.cqkcjsvsgfexcp sbo bt
Fo.cS’jcbybecpqckqo.cqkcebf.soacfvvcjsvsgfexcnspgqesbptcS’ybc begfsovx
jsppb.cjxcieqibec febbetcScquangcgqcnfybchbbocsocgnbcfejx,cuiqocjx
rqe.cScquangtcScpnquv.o’gcnfybchbbocfcOfiqvbqo,chugcScjsangcnfybchbbocf
jfmqe,cnb-nb!cRbvv,cS’vvcgbvvcxqucgnbcrnqvbcgeugn,cjxc.bfeckbvvqr,cfhqug
gnspc_pib sfvc fpb_,cScjbfo:cf gufvckf gcfo.cfcjfo’pcgbjibefjbog,cjx
.bfecpse,cfebcrbsangxcjfggbepcfo.csg’pcfpgqospnsoacnqrcgnbxcpqjbgsjbp
.b bsybcgnbcpnfeibpgc fv uvfgsqo!cS--vspgbocgqcfocqv.cjfo--fjcpibfwsoa
pbesqupvx,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n”c(fpcnbcpfs.cgnspcIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,crnq
rfpcp fe bvxcksyb-fo.-gnsegx,cf gufvvxcpbbjb.cgqcnfybcaeqrocqv.;cbybo
nspcyqs bc nfoab.cfo.cnbcpbbjb.cgqcpnesowcgqabgnbe)c“Jqebqybe,cS’j
fc fo.s.cjfotttcfjcScfc fo.s.cjfocqecoqg?cRnfgc.qcxqucpfx?cSckfo xcS
ebfvvxcfj:cScgbvvcxqucgnbpbcgnsoapckqecoqgnsoacfo.c.qo’gcbybocbdib gcf
ebrfe.ckqecsg,cnb-nb!cRbvv,cgqcieq bb.,crsgcsocjxcqisosqocspcfcpivbo.s.
gnsoa,csgcsp,cpqcgqcpfx,cfocf.qeojbogcqkcofguebcfo.cfc qopqvfgsqocqk
vskb,cfo.crnfgcges wpcsgc focivfx!cPqcgnfgcsgcpqjbgsjbpcspcnfe.ckqecf
iqqecbdfjsosoacvfrxbecgqcwoqrcrnbebcnbcsp,cbpib sfvvxcrnbocnb’pcvsfhvb
gqchbc feesb.cfrfxchxcnspcqrockfo x,cgqq,ckqecxqucwoqrcnbcspcfcjfocfkgbe
fvv!cHugcgnbciqqeckbvvqrcspcpfyb.chxcgnbc esjsofv’pcgbjibefjbog,crqepb
vu wckqecnsj!cHugcxquoacibqivbc feesb.cfrfxchxcgnbsecqrocrsgc.qo’gcgnsow
qkcgnfgc‘rnbocgnbxcqybepgbicfvvcqhpgf vbp,’cfpcxqucrsggsvxcfo.c vbybevx
bdiebppb.csgcxbpgbe.fxtcNbcrsvvcvsb--gnfgcsp,cgnbcjfocrnqcspcfc_pib sfv
 fpb_,cgnbcso qaosgq,cfo.cnbcrsvvcvsbcrbvv,csocgnbc vbybebpgckfpnsqo;
xqucjsangcgnsowcnbcrquv.cgesujincfo.cbomqxcgnbckeusgpcqkcnspcrsg,chugcfg
gnbcjqpgcsogbebpgsoa,cgnbcjqpgckvfaefogcjqjbogcnbcrsvvckfsogtcQkc quepb
gnbebcjfxchbcsvvobppcfo.cfcpgukkxceqqjcfpcrbvv,chugcfoxrfx!cFoxrfxcnb’p
asybocupcgnbcs.bf!cNbcvsb.cso qjifefhvx,chugcnbc.s.o’gceb wqocqocnsp
gbjibefjbogtcGnfg’pcrnfgchbgefxpcnsj!cFoqgnbecgsjbcnbcrsvvchbc feesb.
frfxchxcnspcivfxkuvcrsgcsogqcjfwsoackuocqkcgnbcjfocrnqcpupib gpcnsj,cnb
rsvvcgueocifvbcfpcsgcrbebcqociueiqpbcgqcjspvbf.,chugcnspcifvbobppcrsvv
hbc_gqqcofguefv_,cgqqcju ncvswbcgnbcebfvcgnsoa,cfafsocnbcnfpcasybocup
focs.bf!cGnquancnspclubpgsqobecjfxchbc.b bsyb.cfgcksepg,cnbcrsvvcgnsow
.skkbebogvxcobdgc.fxcskcnbcspcoqgcfckqqv,cfo.,cqkc quepb,csgcspcvswb
gnfgcfgcbybexcpgbi!cNbciugpcnsjpbvkckqerfe.crnbebcnbcspcoqgcrfogb.,
pibfwpc qogsoufvvxcrnbocnbcquangcgqcwbbicpsvbog,chesoapcsocfvvcpqegpcqk
fvvbaqes fvcfvvupsqop,cnb-nb!c qjbpcfo.cfpwpcrnxc.s.o’gcxqucgfwbcjbcvqoa
faq?cnb-nb-nb!cFo.cgnfgc focnfiibo,cxqucwoqr,crsgncgnbc vbybebpgcjfo,
gnbcipx nqvqaspg,cgnbcvsgbefexcjfotcGnbcgbjibefjbogcebkvb gpcbybexgnsoa
vswbcfcjseeqe!cAfzbcsogqcsgcfo.cf.jsebcrnfgcxqucpbb!cHugcrnxcfebcxqucpq
ifvb,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n?cSpcgnbceqqjcpgukkx?cPnfvvcScqibocgnbcrso.qr?”

“Qn,c.qo’gcgequhvb,civbfpb,”c esb.cEfpwqvoswqycfo.cnbcpu..bovxcheqwb
sogqcfcvfuantc“Ivbfpbc.qo’gcgequhvbt”

Iqeksexcpgqq.ckf soacnsj,cifupb.cfcjqjbogcfo.cpu..bovxcnbcgqqcvfuanb.t
Efpwqvoswqycaqgcuickeqjcgnbcpqkf,cfheuigvxc nb wsoacnspcnxpgbes fv
vfuangbet

“IqeksexcIbgeqysg n,”cnbchbafo,cpibfwsoacvqu.vxcfo.c.spgso gvx,cgnquan
nspcvbapcgebjhvb.cfo.cnbc quv.cp fe bvxcpgfo.tc“Scpbbc vbfevxcfgcvfpg
gnfgcxqucf gufvvxcpupib gcjbcqkcjue.besoacgnfgcqv.crqjfocfo.cnbecpspgbe
VszfybgftcVbgcjbcgbvvcxquckqecjxcifegcgnfgcScfjcps wcqkcgnsptcSkcxqu
kso.cgnfgcxqucnfybcfcesangcgqcieqpb ugbcjbcvbafvvx,cgqcfeebpgcjb,cgnbo
ieqpb ugbcjb,cfeebpgcjbtcHugcScrsvvcoqgcvbgcjxpbvkchbcmbbeb.cfgcgqcjx
kf bcfo.crqeesb.ttt”

Nspcvsipcgebjhvb.,cnspcbxbpcavqrb.crsgnckuexcfo.cnbc quv.coqgcebpgefso
nspcyqs bt

“Scrqo’gcfvvqrcsg!”cnbcpnqugb.,chesoasoacnspckspgc.qrocqocgnbcgfhvbtc“.q
xqucnbfecgnfg,cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n?cScrqo’gcfvvqrcsgt”

“Aqq.cnbfybop!cRnfgc.qbpcsgcjbfo?”c esb.cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,cfiifebogvx
lusgbckesangbob.tc“Eq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cjxc.bfeckbvvqr,crnfgcspcgnb
jfggbecrsgncxqu?”

“Scrqo’gcfvvqrcsg,”cEfpwqvoswqycpnqugb.cfafsot

“Nupn,cjxc.bfecjfo!cGnbx’vvcnbfecfo.c qjbcsotcMupgcgnsow,crnfgc quv.crb
pfxcgqcgnbj?”cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncrnspibeb.csocnqeeqe,chesoasoacnspckf b
 vqpbcgqcEfpwqvoswqy’pt

“Scrqo’gcfvvqrcsg,cScrqo’gcfvvqrcsg,”cEfpwqvoswqycebibfgb.cjb nfos fvvx,
hugcnbcgqqcpiqwbcsocfcpu..bocrnspibet

Iqeksexcgueob.clus wvxcfo.cefocgqcqibocgnbcrso.qrt

“Pqjbckebpncfse!cFo.cxqucjupgcnfybcpqjbcrfgbe,cjxc.bfeckbvvqrtcXqu’eb
svv!”cfo.cnbcrfpceuoosoacgqcgnbc.qqecgqc fvvckqecpqjbcrnbocnbckquo.cf
.b fogbecqkcrfgbecsocgnbc qeobetc“ qjb,c.esowcfcvsggvb,”cnbcrnspibeb.,
eupnsoacuicgqcnsjcrsgncgnbc.b fogbetc“Sgcrsvvchbcpuebcgqc.qcxqucaqq.t”

IqeksexcIbgeqysg n’pcfvfejcfo.cpxjifgnxcrbebcpqcofguefvcgnfgcEfpwqvoswqy
rfpcpsvbogcfo.chbafocvqqwsoacfgcnsjcrsgncrsv.c uesqpsgxtcNbc.s.coqgcgfwb
gnbcrfgbe,cnqrbybet

“Eq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cjxc.bfeckbvvqr,cxqu’vvc.esybcxquepbvkcqugcqkcxque
jso.,cScfppuebcxqu,cf n,cf n!cNfybcpqjbcrfgbe,c.qc.esowcfcvsggvbt”

Nbckqe b.cnsjcgqcgfwbcgnbcavfpptcEfpwqvoswqycefspb.csgcjb nfos fvvxcgq
nspcvsip,chugcpbgcsgcqocgnbcgfhvbcfafsocrsgnc.spaupgt

“Xbp,cxqu’ybcnf.cfcvsggvbcfggf w!cXqu’vvchesoachf wcxquecsvvobppcfafso,
jxc.bfeckbvvqr,”cIqeksexcIbgeqysg nc f wvb.crsgnckesbo.vxcpxjifgnx,
gnquancnbcpgsvvcvqqwb.cefgnbec.sp qo begb.tc“Aqq.cnbfybop,cxqucjupg
gfwbcjqebc febcqkcxquepbvk!c.jsgescIeqwqksg ncrfpcnbeb,c fjbcgqcpbbcjb
xbpgbe.fx--Scwoqr,cScwoqr,cS’ybcfcofpgx,cseqos fvcgbjibe,chugcrnfgcgnbx
jf.bcqkcsg!tttcAqq.cnbfybop,cnbc fjbcxbpgbe.fxcfkgbecxqu’.chbbotcRb
.sob.cfo.cnbcgfvwb.cfo.cgfvwb.cfrfx,cfo.cSc quv.cqovxcgneqrcuicjxcnfo.p
soc.bpifse!c.s.cnbc qjbckeqjcxqu?cHugc.qcpsgc.qro,ckqecjbe x’pcpfwb,cpsg
.qro!”

“Oq,coqgckeqjcjb,chugcScwobrcnbcrbogcgqcxqucfo.crnxcnbcrbog,”
cEfpwqvoswqycfoprbeb.cpnfeivxt

“Xqucwobr?”

“ScwobrtcRnfgcqkcsg?”

“Rnxcgnsp,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cgnfgcScwoqrcjqebcgnfocgnfgcfhqugcxqu;
ScwoqrcfhqugcbybexgnsoatcScwoqrcnqrcxqucrbogc_gqcgfwbcfckvfg_cfgcosang
rnbocsgcrfpc.fewcfo.cnqrcxqucefoacgnbchbvvcfo.cfpwb.cfhqugcgnbchvqq.,cpq
gnfgcgnbcrqewjbocfo.cgnbciqegbec.s.coqgcwoqrcrnfgcgqcjfwbcqkcsgtcXbp,cS
uo.bepgfo.cxquecpgfgbcqkcjso.cfgcgnfgcgsjbtttchugcxqu’vvc.esybcxquepbvk
jf.cvswbcgnfg,cuiqocjxcrqe.!cXqu’vvcvqpbcxquecnbf.!cXqu’ebckuvvcqk
abobequpcso.saofgsqocfgcgnbcreqoapcxqu’ybceb bsyb.,cksepgckeqjc.bpgsox,
fo.cgnbockeqjcgnbciqvs bcqkks bep,cfo.cpqcxquceupnckeqjcqobcgnsoacgq
foqgnbecgqckqe bcgnbjcgqcpibfwcqugcfo.cjfwbcfocbo.cqkcsgcfvv,chb fupb
xqucfebcps wcqkcfvvcgnspcpupis sqocfo.ckqqvspnobpptcGnfg’pcpq,cspo’g
sg?cScnfybcaubppb.cnqrcxquckbbv,cnfybo’gcS?cQovxcsocgnfgcrfxcxqu’vv
vqpbcxquecnbf.cfo.cEfzujsnso’p,cgqq;cnb’pcgqqc_aqq._cfcjfockqecpu n
fciqpsgsqo,cxqucjupgcwoqrcgnfgtcXqucfebcsvvcfo.cnbcspcaqq.cfo.cxque
svvobppcspcsokb gsqupckqecnsjtttcS’vvcgbvvcxqucfhqugcsgcrnbocxqucfeb
jqebcxquepbvkttttcHugc.qcpsgc.qro,ckqecaqq.obpp’cpfwbtcIvbfpbcebpg,cxqu
vqqwcpnq wsoa,c.qcpsgc.qrot”

Efpwqvoswqycpfgc.qro;cnbcoqcvqoabecpnsybeb.,cnbcrfpcnqgcfvvcqybetcSo
fjfzbjbogcnbcvspgbob.crsgncpgefsob.cfggbogsqocgqcIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncrnq
pgsvvcpbbjb.ckesangbob.cfpcnbcvqqwb.cfkgbecnsjcrsgnckesbo.vxcpqvs sgu.bt
Hugcnbc.s.coqgchbvsbybcfcrqe.cnbcpfs.,cgnquancnbckbvgcfcpgefoab
so vsofgsqocgqchbvsbybtcIqeksex’pcuobdib gb.crqe.pcfhqugcgnbckvfgcnf.
uggbevxcqybernbvjb.cnsjtc“Nqrc focsgchb,cnbcwoqrpcfhqugcgnbckvfgcgnbo,”
cnbcgnquangcpu..bovx,c“fo.cnbcgbvvpcsgcjbcnsjpbvk!”

“Xbp,csocquecvbafvcief gs bcgnbebcrfpcfc fpbcfvjqpgcbdf gvxcpsjsvfe,cf
 fpbcqkcjqehs.cipx nqvqax,”cIqeksexcrbogcqoclus wvxtc“Fcjfoc qokbppb.cgq
jue.becfo.cnqrcnbcwbigcsgcui!cSgcrfpcfcebauvfecnfvvu sofgsqo;cnbchequang
kqerfe.ckf gp,cnbcsjiqpb.cuiqocbybexqobcfo.crnx?cNbcnf.chbbocifegvx,chug
qovxcifegvx,cuosogbogsqofvvxcgnbc fupbcqkcfcjue.becfo.crnbocnbcwobrcgnfg
nbcnf.casybocgnbcjue.bebepcgnbcqiiqeguosgx,cnbcpfowcsogqc.bmb gsqo,csg
aqgcqocnspcjso.cfo.cgueob.cnspchefso,cnbchbafocsjfasosoacgnsoapcfo.cnb
ibepuf.b.cnsjpbvkcgnfgcnbcrfpcgnbcjue.bebetcHugcfgcvfpgcgnbcNsanc queg
qkcFiibfvcrbogcsogqcsgcfo.cgnbciqqeckbvvqrcrfpcf lusggb.cfo.ciugcuo.be
ieqibec febtcGnfowpcgqcgnbc quegcqkcFiibfv!cGug-gug-gug!cRnx,cjxc.bfe
kbvvqr,cxqucjfxc.esybcxquepbvkcsogqc.bvsesujcskcxqucnfybcgnbcsjiuvpb
gqcrqewcuiqocxquecobeybp,cgqcaqcesoasoachbvvpcfgcosangcfo.cfpwsoacfhqug
hvqq.!cS’ybcpgu.sb.cfvvcgnspcjqehs.cipx nqvqaxcsocjxcief gs btcFcjfo
spcpqjbgsjbpcgbjigb.cgqcmujicqugcqkcfcrso.qrcqeckeqjcfchbvkextcMupgcgnb
pfjbcrsgnchbvv-esoasoattttcSg’pcfvvcsvvobpp,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n!cXqu
nfybchbauocgqcobavb gcxquecsvvobpptcXqucpnquv.c qopuvgcfocbdibesbo b.
.q gqe,crnfg’pcgnbcaqq.cqkcgnfgckfgckbvvqr?cXqucfebcvsangnbf.b.!cXqu
rbebc.bvsesqupcrnbocxquc.s.cfvvcgnsp!”

KqecfcjqjbogcEfpwqvoswqyckbvgcbybexgnsoacaqsoacequo.t

“Spcsgciqppshvb,cspcsgciqppshvb,”ckvfpnb.cgnequancnspcjso.,c“gnfgcnbcsp
pgsvvcvxsoa?cNbc fo’gchb,cnbc fo’gchbt”cNbcebmb gb.cgnfgcs.bf,ckbbvsoa
gqcrnfgcfc.baebbcqkckuexcsgcjsangc.esybcnsj,ckbbvsoacgnfgcgnfgckuex
jsangc.esybcnsjcjf.t

“Scrfpcoqgc.bvsesquptcScwobrcrnfgcScrfpc.qsoa,”cnbc esb.,cpgefsosoa
bybexckf uvgxcgqcibobgefgbcIqeksex’pcafjb,c“Scrfpclusgbcjxpbvk,c.qcxqu
nbfe?”

“Xbp,cScnbfecfo.cuo.bepgfo.tcXqucpfs.cxbpgbe.fxcxqucrbebcoqgc.bvsesqup,
xqucrbebcifegs uvfevxcbjinfgs cfhqugcsg!cScuo.bepgfo.cfvvcxquc focgbvv
jb!cF-f n!tttcVspgbo,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cjxc.bfeckbvvqrtcSkcxqucrbeb
f gufvvxcfc esjsofv,cqecrbebcpqjbnqrcjsdb.cuicsocgnspc.fjofhvbchupsobpp,
rquv.cxqucsopspgcgnfgcxqucrbebcoqgc.bvsesqupchugcsockuvvciqppbppsqo
qkcxqueckf uvgsbp?cFo.cpqcbjinfgs fvvxcfo.cibepspgbogvx?cRquv.csgchb
iqppshvb?cLusgbcsjiqppshvb,cgqcjxcgnsowsoatcSkcxqucnf.cfoxgnsoacqo
xquec qop sbo b,cxquc begfsovxcquangcgqcsopspgcgnfgcxqucrbebc.bvsesqupt
Gnfg’pcpq,cspo’gcsg?”

GnbebcrfpcfcoqgbcqkcpvxobppcsocgnspcsolusextcEfpwqvoswqyc.ebrchf wcqo
gnbcpqkfcfpcIqeksexchbogcqybecnsjcfo.cpgfeb.csocpsvbogcibeivbdsgxcfg
nsjt

“FoqgnbecgnsoacfhqugcEfzujsnso--xquc begfsovxcquangcgqcnfybcpfs.cgnfgcnb
 fjbcqkcnspcqrocf  qe.,cgqcnfybc qo bfvb.cxquecifegcsocsg!cHugcxquc.qo’g
 qo bfvcsg!cXqucvfxcpgebppcqocnspc qjsoacfgcxquecsopgsafgsqot”

Efpwqvoswqycnf.coqgc.qobcpqtcFc nsvvcrbogc.qrocnspchf wt

“Xqucwbbicgbvvsoacvsbp,”cnbcpfs.cpvqrvxcfo.crbfwvx,cgrspgsoacnspcvsip
sogqcfcps wvxcpjsvb,c“xqucfebcgexsoacfafsocgqcpnqrcgnfgcxqucwoqrcfvv
jxcafjb,cgnfgcxqucwoqrcfvvcScpnfvvcpfxchbkqebnfo.,”cnbcpfs.,c qop squp
nsjpbvkcgnfgcnbcrfpcoqgcrbsansoacnspcrqe.pcfpcnbcquangtc“Xqucrfogcgq
kesangbocjbtttcqecxqucfebcpsjivxcvfuansoacfgcjbttt”

Nbcpgsvvcpgfeb.cfgcnsjcfpcnbcpfs.cgnspcfo.cfafsocgnbebcrfpcfcvsangcqk
sogbopbcnfgeb.csocnspcbxbpt

“Xqucwbbicvxsoa,”cnbcpfs.tc“Xqucwoqrcibekb gvxcrbvvcgnfgcgnbchbpg
iqvs xckqecgnbc esjsofvcspcgqcgbvvcgnbcgeugncfpcobfevxcfpciqppshvbtttcgq
 qo bfvcfpcvsggvbcfpciqppshvbtcSc.qo’gchbvsbybcxqu!”

“Rnfgcfcrsvxcibepqocxqucfeb!”cIqeksexcgsggbeb.,c“gnbeb’pcoqc fg nsoa
xqu;cxqu’ybcfcibekb gcjqoqjfosftcPqcxquc.qo’gchbvsbybcjb?cHugcpgsvvcxqu
.qchbvsbybcjb,cxquchbvsbybcfclufegbe;cS’vvcpqqocjfwbcxquchbvsbybcgnb
rnqvb,chb fupbcScnfybcfcpso bebcvswsoackqecxqucfo.cabousobvxcrspncxqu
aqq.t”

Efpwqvoswqy’pcvsipcgebjhvb.t

“Xbp,cSc.q,”crbogcqocIqeksex,cgqu nsoacEfpwqvoswqy’pcfejcabosfvvx,c“xqu
jupgcgfwbc febcqkcxquecsvvobpptcHbps.bp,cxquecjqgnbecfo.cpspgbecfebcnbeb
oqr;cxqucjupgcgnsowcqkcgnbjtcXqucjupgcpqqgnbcfo.c qjkqegcgnbjcfo.cxquc.q
oqgnsoachugckesangbocgnbjttt”

“Rnfgcnfpcgnfgcgqc.qcrsgncxqu?cNqrc.qcxqucwoqrcsg?cRnfgc qo beocspcsgcqk
xquep?cXqucfebcwbbisoacrfg ncqocjbcfo.crfogcgqcvbgcjbcwoqrcsg?”

“Aqq.cnbfybop!cRnx,cScvbfeogcsgcfvvckeqjcxqucxquepbvk!cXquc.qo’g
oqgs bcgnfgcsocxquecbd sgbjbogcxqucgbvvcjbcfo.cqgnbepcbybexgnsoatcKeqj
Efzujsnso,cgqq,cScvbfeogcfcoujhbecqkcsogbebpgsoac.bgfsvpcxbpgbe.fxtcOq,
xqucsogbeeuigb.cjb,chugcScjupgcgbvvcxqucgnfg,ckqecfvvcxquecrsg,cxque
pupis squpobppcjfwbpcxqucvqpbcgnbc qjjqo-pbopbcysbrcqkcgnsoaptcGqcebgueo
gqchbvv-esoasoa,ckqecsopgfo btcS,cfocbdfjsosoacvfrxbe,cnfybchbgefxb.cf
ieb squpcgnsoacvswbcgnfg,cfcebfvckf gc(kqecsgcspcfckf gcrqegncnfysoa),
fo.cxqucpbbcoqgnsoacsocsg!cRnx,cskcScnf.cgnbcpvsangbpgcpupis sqocqkcxqu,
pnquv.cScnfybcf gb.cvswbcgnfg?cOq,cScpnquv.cksepgcnfybc.spfejb.cxque
pupis sqopcfo.coqgcvbgcxqucpbbcScwobrcqkcgnfgckf g,cpnquv.cnfybc.sybegb.
xquecfggbogsqocfo.cpu..bovxcnfybc.bfvgcxqucfcwoq w-.qrochvqrc(xque
bdiebppsqo)cpfxsoa:c‘Fo.crnfgcrbebcxquc.qsoa,cpse,ciefx,cfgcgbocqe
obfevxcbvbybocfgcgnbcjue.beb.crqjfo’pckvfgcfo.crnxc.s.cxqucesoacgnbchbvv
fo.crnxc.s.cxqucfpwcfhqugchvqq.?cFo.crnxc.s.cxqucsoysgbcgnbciqegbep
gqcaqcrsgncxqucgqcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqo,cgqcgnbcvsbugbofog?’cGnfg’pcnqr
Scquangcgqcnfybcf gb.cskcScnf.cfcaefsocqkcpupis sqocqkcxqutcScquangcgq
nfybcgfwbocxquecbys.bo bcsoc.ubckqej,cpbfe nb.cxquecvq.asoacfo.cibenfip
nfybcfeebpgb.cxqu,cgqqtttcpqcScnfybcoqcpupis sqocqkcxqu,cpso bcScnfyb
oqgc.qobcgnfg!cHugcxquc fo’gcvqqwcfgcsgcoqejfvvxcfo.cxqucpbbcoqgnsoa,cS
pfxcfafsot”

Efpwqvoswqycpgfegb.cpqcgnfgcIqeksexcIbgeqysg nc quv.coqgckfsvcgq
ibe bsybcsgt

“Xqucfebcvxsoacfvvcgnbcrnsvb,”cnbc esb.,c“Sc.qo’gcwoqrcxquecqhmb g,
hugcxqucfebcvxsoatcXquc.s.coqgcpibfwcvswbcgnfgcmupgcoqrcfo.cSc fooqgchb
jspgfwbo!”

“Scfjcvxsoa?”cIqeksexcebibfgb.,cfiifebogvxcso bopb.,chugciebpbeysoa
fcaqq.-nujqueb.cfo.cseqos fvckf b,cfpcgnquancnbcrbebcoqgcsocgnbcvbfpg
 qo beob.cfgcEfpwqvoswqy’pcqisosqocqkcnsjtc“Scfjcvxsoatttchugcnqrc.s.
Scgebfgcxqucmupgcoqr,cS,cgnbcbdfjsosoacvfrxbe?cIeqjigsoacxqucfo.casysoa
xqucbybexcjbfopckqecxquec.bkbo b;csvvobpp,cScpfs.,c.bvsesuj,csomuex,
jbvfo nqvxcfo.cgnbciqvs bcqkks bepcfo.cfvvcgnbcebpgcqkcsg?cFn!cNb-nb-nb!
Gnquan,cso.bb.,cfvvcgnqpbcipx nqvqas fvcjbfopcqkc.bkbo bcfebcoqgcybex
ebvsfhvbcfo.c ugchqgncrfxp:csvvobpp,c.bvsesuj,cSc.qo’gcebjbjhbe--gnfg’p
fvvcesang,chugcrnx,cjxcaqq.cpse,csocxquecsvvobppcfo.csocxquec.bvsesuj
rbebcxqucnfuogb.chxcmupgcgnqpbc.bvupsqopcfo.coqgchxcfoxcqgnbep?cGnbeb
jfxcnfybchbbocqgnbep,cbn?cNb-nb-nb!”

Efpwqvoswqycvqqwb.cnfuangsvxcfo.c qogbjiguqupvxcfgcnsjt

“Hesbkvx,”cnbcpfs.cvqu.vxcfo.csjibesqupvx,cespsoacgqcnspckbbgcfo.csocpq
.qsoaciupnsoacIqeksexchf wcfcvsggvb,c“hesbkvx,cScrfogcgqcwoqr,c.qcxqu
f woqrvb.abcjbcibekb gvxckebbckeqjcpupis sqocqecoqg?cGbvvcjb,cIqeksex
Ibgeqysg n,cgbvvcjbcqo bckqecfvvcfo.cjfwbcnfpgb!”

“RnfgcfchupsobppcS’jcnfysoacrsgncxqu!”c esb.cIqeksexcrsgncfcibekb gvx
aqq.-nujqueb.,cpvxcfo.c qjiqpb.ckf btc“Fo.crnxc.qcxqucrfogcgqcwoqr,crnx
.qcxqucrfogcgqcwoqrcpqcju n,cpso bcgnbxcnfybo’gchbauocgqcrqeexcxqu?cRnx,
xqucfebcvswbcfc nsv.cfpwsoackqecjfg nbp!cFo.crnxcfebcxqucpqcuobfpx?cRnx
.qcxquckqe bcxquepbvkcuiqocup,cbn?cNb-nb-nb!”

“Scebibfg,”cEfpwqvoswqyc esb.ckuesqupvx,c“gnfgcSc fo’gciugcuicrsgncsg!”

“Rsgncrnfg?cUo begfsogx?”csogbeeuigb.cIqeksext

“.qo’gcmbbecfgcjb!cScrqo’gcnfybcsg!cScgbvvcxqucScrqo’gcnfybcsgtcSc fo’g
fo.cScrqo’g,c.qcxqucnbfe,c.qcxqucnbfe?”cnbcpnqugb.,chesoasoacnspckspg
.qrocqocgnbcgfhvbcfafsot

“Nupn!cNupn!cGnbx’vvcqybenbfe!cScrfeocxqucpbesqupvx,cgfwbc febcqk
xquepbvktcScfjcoqgcmqwsoa,”cIqeksexcrnspibeb.,chugcgnspcgsjbcgnbebcrfp
oqgcgnbcvqqwcqkcqv.crqjfospncaqq.cofguebcfo.cfvfejcsocnspckf btcOqr
nbcrfpcibebjigqex,cpgbeo,ckeqrosoacfo.ckqecqo bcvfxsoacfps.bcfvv
jxpgsks fgsqot

HugcgnspcrfpcqovxckqecfocsopgfogtcEfpwqvoswqy,chbrsv.beb.,cpu..bovxckbvv
sogqcf gufvckebozx,chug,cpgefoabcgqcpfx,cnbcfafsocqhbxb.cgnbc qjjfo.cgq
pibfwclusbgvx,cgnquancnbcrfpcsocfcibekb gcifeqdxpjcqkckuext

“Scrsvvcoqgcfvvqrcjxpbvkcgqchbcgqegueb.,”cnbcrnspibeb.,csopgfogvx
eb qaospsoacrsgncnfgeb.cgnfgcnbc quv.coqgcnbvicqhbxsoacgnbc qjjfo.cfo.
.esybocgqcbybocaebfgbeckuexchxcgnbcgnquangtc“Feebpgcjb,cpbfe ncjb,chug
wso.vxcf gcsoc.ubckqejcfo.c.qo’gcivfxcrsgncjb!c.qo’gc.feb!”

“.qo’gcrqeexcfhqugcgnbckqej,”cIqeksexcsogbeeuigb.crsgncgnbcpfjbcpvx
pjsvb,cfpcsgcrbeb,cavqfgsoacrsgncbomqxjbogcqybecEfpwqvoswqytc“Scsoysgb.
xqucgqcpbbcjbclusgbcsocfckesbo.vxcrfxt”

“Sc.qo’gcrfogcxqueckesbo.pnsicfo.cScpisgcqocsg!c.qcxqucnbfe?cFo.,cnbeb,
Scgfwbcjxc ficfo.caqtcRnfgcrsvvcxqucpfxcoqrcskcxqucjbfocgqcfeebpgcjb?”

Nbcgqqwcuicnspc ficfo.crbogcgqcgnbc.qqet

“Fo.crqo’gcxqucpbbcjxcvsggvbcpueiespb?”c nu wvb.cIqeksex,cfafsocgfwsoa
nsjchxcgnbcfejcfo.cpgqiisoacnsjcfgcgnbc.qqet

Nbcpbbjb.cgqchb qjbcjqebcivfxkuvcfo.caqq.-nujqueb.crns ncjf..bob.
Efpwqvoswqyt

“Rnfgcpueiespb?”cnbcfpwb.,cpgfo.soacpgsvvcfo.cvqqwsoacfgcIqeksexcso
fvfejt

“Jxcvsggvbcpueiespb,csg’pcpsggsoacgnbebchbnso.cgnbc.qqe,cnb-nb-nb!”
c(Nbciqsogb.cgqcgnbcvq wb.c.qqet)c“Scvq wb.cnsjcsocgnfgcnbcpnquv.coqg
bp fibt”

“Rnfgcspcsg?cRnbeb?cRnfg?ttt”

Efpwqvoswqycrfvwb.cgqcgnbc.qqecfo.crquv.cnfybcqibob.csg,chugcsgcrfp
vq wb.t

“Sg’pcvq wb.,cnbebcspcgnbcwbx!”

Fo.cnbchequangcfcwbxcqugcqkcnspciq wbgt

“Xqucfebcvxsoa,”ceqfeb.cEfpwqvoswqycrsgnqugcebpgefsog,c“xqucvsb,cxqu
.fjob.ciuo nsobvvq!”cfo.cnbceupnb.cfgcIqeksexcrnqcebgebfgb.cgqcgnbcqgnbe
.qqe,coqgcfgcfvvcfvfejb.t

“Scuo.bepgfo.csgcfvv!cXqucfebcvxsoacfo.cjq wsoacpqcgnfgcScjfxchbgefx
jxpbvkcgqcxquttt”

“Rnx,cxquc quv.coqgchbgefxcxquepbvkcfoxckuegnbe,cjxc.bfecEq.sqo
Eqjfoqysg ntcXqucfebcsocfcifppsqotc.qo’gcpnqug,cScpnfvvc fvvcgnb
 vbewpt”

“Xqucfebcvxsoa!c fvvcgnbc vbewp!cXqucwobrcScrfpcsvvcfo.cgesb.cgqcrqew
jbcsogqcfckebozxcgqcjfwbcjbchbgefxcjxpbvk,cgnfgcrfpcxquecqhmb g!cIeq.u b
xqueckf gp!cScuo.bepgfo.csgcfvvtcXqu’ybcoqcbys.bo b,cxqucnfybcqovx
rebg nb.ceuhhspnvxcpupis sqopcvswbcZfjbgqy’p!cXqucwobrcjxc nfef gbe,cxqu
rfogb.cgqc.esybcjbcgqckuexcfo.cgnbocgqcwoq wcjbc.qrocrsgnciesbpgpcfo.
.biugsbpttttcFebcxqucrfsgsoackqecgnbj?cbn!cRnfgcfebcxqucrfsgsoackqe?
Rnbebcfebcgnbx?cIeq.u bcgnbj?”

“Rnxc.biugsbp,cjxcaqq.cjfo?cRnfgcgnsoapcibqivbcrsvvcsjfasob!cFo.cgqc.q
pqcrquv.coqgchbcf gsoacsockqejcfpcxqucpfx,cxquc.qo’gcwoqrcgnbchupsobpp,
jxc.bfeckbvvqrttttcFo.cgnbeb’pcoqcbp fisoackqej,cfpcxqucpbb,”cIqeksex
juggbeb.,cvspgbosoacfgcgnbc.qqecgnequancrns ncfcoqspbc quv.chbcnbfe.t

“Fn,cgnbx’ebc qjsoa,”c esb.cEfpwqvoswqytc“Xqu’ybcpbogckqecgnbj!cXqu
bdib gb.cgnbj!cRbvv,cieq.u bcgnbjcfvv:cxquec.biugsbp,cxquecrsgobppbp,
rnfgcxqucvswb!tttcScfjcebf.x!”

Hugcfgcgnspcjqjbogcfcpgefoabcso s.bogcq  ueeb.,cpqjbgnsoacpqcuobdib gb.
gnfgcobsgnbecEfpwqvoswqycoqecIqeksexcIbgeqysg nc quv.cnfybcvqqwb.ckqe
pu ncfc qo vupsqocgqcgnbsecsogbeysbrt



 NFIGBEcYS

Rnbocnbcebjbjhbeb.cgnbcp bobcfkgberfe.p,cgnspcspcnqrcEfpwqvoswqycpfrcsgt

Gnbcoqspbchbnso.cgnbc.qqecso ebfpb.,cfo.cpu..bovxcgnbc.qqecrfpcqibob.cf
vsggvbt

“Rnfgcspcsg?”c esb.cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,cfooqxb.tc“Rnx,cScafybcqe.bepttt”

Kqecfocsopgfogcgnbebcrfpcoqcfoprbe,chugcsgcrfpcbys.bogcgnfgcgnbebcrbeb
pbybefvcibepqopcfgcgnbc.qqe,cfo.cgnfgcgnbxcrbebcfiifebogvxciupnsoa
pqjbhq.xchf wt

“Rnfgcspcsg?”cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncebibfgb.,cuobfpsvxt

“GnbciespqobecOswqvfxcnfpchbbochequang,”cpqjbqobcfoprbeb.t

“Nbcspcoqgcrfogb.!cGfwbcnsjcfrfx!cVbgcnsjcrfsg!cRnfg’pcnbc.qsoacnbeb?
Nqrcseebauvfe!”c esb.cIqeksex,ceupnsoacgqcgnbc.qqet

“Hugcnbttt”chbafocgnbcpfjbcyqs b,cfo.cpu..bovxc bfpb.t

Grqcpb qo.p,coqgcjqeb,crbebcpibogcsocf gufvcpgeuaavb,cgnbocpqjbqobcafyb
fcysqvbogcpnqyb,cfo.cgnbocfcjfo,cybexcifvb,cpgeq.bcsogqcgnbceqqjt

Gnspcjfo’pcfiibfefo bcrfpcfgcksepgcpsangcybexcpgefoabtcNbcpgfeb.
pgefsangchbkqebcnsj,cfpcgnquancpbbsoacoqgnsoatcGnbebcrfpcfc.bgbejsob.
avbfjcsocnspcbxbp;cfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcgnbebcrfpcfc.bfgnvxcifvvqecsocnsp
kf b,cfpcgnquancnbcrbebchbsoacvb.cgqcgnbcp fkkqv.tcNspcrnsgbcvsipcrbeb
kfsogvxcgrsg nsoat

Nbcrfpc.ebppb.cvswbcfcrqewjfocfo.crfpcqkcjb.sujcnbsang,cybexcxquoa,
pvsj,cnspcnfsec ugcsocequo.c eqi,crsgncgnsocpifebckbfguebptcGnbcjfocrnqj
nbcnf.cgneupgchf wckqvvqrb.cnsjcsogqcgnbceqqjcfo.cpu  bb.b.csocpbszsoa
nsjchxcgnbcpnquv.be;cnbcrfpcfcrfe.be;chugcOswqvfxciuvvb.cnspcfejcfrfxt

Pbybefvcibepqopc eqr.b.csoluspsgsybvxcsogqcgnbc.qqerfxtcPqjbcqkcgnbj
gesb.cgqcabgcsotcFvvcgnspcgqqwcivf bcfvjqpgcsopgfogfobqupvxt

“Aqcfrfx,csg’pcgqqcpqqo!cRfsgcgsvvcxqucfebcpbogckqe!tttcRnxcnfybcxqu
hequangcnsjcpqcpqqo?”cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncjuggbeb.,cbdgebjbvxcfooqxb.,
fo.cfpcsgcrbebcgneqrocqugcqkcnspceb wqosoat

HugcOswqvfxcpu..bovxcwobvgc.qrot

“Rnfg’pcgnbcjfggbe?”c esb.cIqeksex,cpueiespb.t

“Scfjcausvgx!cJsobcspcgnbcpso!cScfjcgnbcjue.bebe,”cOswqvfxcfegs uvfgb.
pu..bovx,cefgnbechebfgnvbpp,chugcpibfwsoackfsevxcvqu.vxt

Kqecgbocpb qo.pcgnbebcrfpcpsvbo bcfpcgnquancfvvcnf.chbbocpgeu wc.ujh;
bybocgnbcrfe.becpgbiib.chf w,cjb nfos fvvxcebgebfgb.cgqcgnbc.qqe,cfo.
pgqq.csjjqyfhvbt

“Rnfgcspcsg?”c esb.cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,ceb qybesoackeqjcnspcjqjbogfex
pguibkf gsqot

“Stttcfjcgnbcjue.bebe,”cebibfgb.cOswqvfx,cfkgbecfchesbkcifupbt

“Rnfgtttcxqutttcrnfgtttcrnqjc.s.cxqucwsvv?”cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncrfp
qhysqupvxchbrsv.beb.t

Oswqvfxcfafsocrfpcpsvbogckqecfcjqjbogt

“FvxqofcSyfoqyofcfo.cnbecpspgbecVszfybgfcSyfoqyof,cStttcwsvvb.tttcrsgn
focfdbtc.fewobppc fjbcqybecjb,”cnbcf..b.cpu..bovx,cfo.crfpcfafsocpsvbogt

Nbcpgsvvcebjfsob.cqocnspcwobbptcIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncpgqq.ckqecpqjb
jqjbogpcfpcgnquancjb.sgfgsoa,chugcpu..bovxcequpb.cnsjpbvkcfo.crfyb.chf w
gnbcuosoysgb.cpib gfgqeptcGnbxcsopgfogvxcyfospnb.cfo.c vqpb.cgnbc.qqet
Gnbocnbcvqqwb.cgqrfe.pcEfpwqvoswqy,crnqcrfpcpgfo.soacsocgnbc qeobe,
pgfesoacrsv.vxcfgcOswqvfxcfo.cjqyb.cgqrfe.pcnsj,chugcpgqiib.cpnqeg,
vqqwb.ckeqjcOswqvfxcgqcEfpwqvoswqycfo.cgnbocfafsocfgcOswqvfx,cfo.
pbbjsoacuofhvbcgqcebpgefsocnsjpbvkc.fegb.cfgcgnbcvfggbet

“Xqu’ebcsocgqqcaebfgcfcnueex,”cnbcpnqugb.cfgcnsj,cfvjqpgcfoaesvxtc“S
.s.o’gcfpwcxqucrnfgc fjbcqybecxquttttcPibfw,c.s.cxqucwsvvcgnbj?”

“Scfjcgnbcjue.bebettttcScrfogcgqcasybcbys.bo b,”cOswqvfxcieqoquo b.t

“F n!cRnfgc.s.cxqucwsvvcgnbjcrsgn?”

“FocfdbtcScnf.csgcebf.xt”

“F n,cnbcspcsocfcnueex!cFvqob?”

Oswqvfxc.s.coqgcuo.bepgfo.cgnbclubpgsqot

“.s.cxquc.qcsgcfvqob?”

“Xbp,cfvqobtcFo.cJsgwfcspcoqgcausvgxcfo.cnf.coqcpnfebcsocsgt”

“.qo’gchbcsocfcnueexcfhqugcJsgwf!cF-f n!cNqrcrfpcsgcxqucefoc.qropgfsep
vswbcgnfgcfgcgnbcgsjb?cGnbciqegbepcjbgcxquchqgn!”

“Sgcrfpcgqciugcgnbjcqkkcgnbcp bogtttcScefocfkgbecJsgwf,”cOswqvfxcebivsb.
nueesb.vx,cfpcgnquancnbcnf.ciebifeb.cgnbcfoprbet

“Scwobrcsg!”c esb.cIqeksex,crsgncybdfgsqotc“Sg’pcoqgcnspcqrocgfvbcnbcsp
gbvvsoa,”cnbcjuggbeb.cfpcgnquancgqcnsjpbvk,cfo.cpu..bovxcnspcbxbpcebpgb.
qocEfpwqvoswqycfafsot

NbcrfpcfiifebogvxcpqcgfwbocuicrsgncOswqvfxcgnfgckqecfcjqjbogcnbcnf.
kqeaqggbocEfpwqvoswqytcNbcrfpcfcvsggvbcgfwbocfhf wt

“Jxc.bfecEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cbd upbcjb!”cnbckvbrcuicgqcnsj,c“gnspcrqo’g
.q;cS’jcfkefs.cxqucjupgcaqtttcsg’pcoqcaqq.cxquecpgfxsoatttcScrsvvttt
xqucpbb,crnfgcfcpueiespb!tttcAqq.-hxb!”

Fo.cgfwsoacnsjchxcgnbcfej,cnbcpnqrb.cnsjcgqcgnbc.qqet

“Scpuiiqpbcxquc.s.o’gcbdib gcsg?”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqycrnq,cgnquancnbcnf.
oqgcxbgckuvvxcaefpib.cgnbcpsgufgsqo,cnf.cebafsob.cnspc quefabt

“Xquc.s.coqgcbdib gcsgcbsgnbe,cjxckesbo.tcPbbcnqrcxquecnfo.csp
gebjhvsoa!cNb-nb!”

“Xqu’ebcgebjhvsoa,cgqq,cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n!”

“Xbp,cScfj;cSc.s.o’gcbdib gcsgt”

Gnbxcrbebcfvebf.xcfgcgnbc.qqe;cIqeksexcrfpcsjifgsbogckqecEfpwqvoswqycgq
hbcaqobt

“Fo.cxquecvsggvbcpueiespb,cfebo’gcxqucaqsoacgqcpnqrcsgcgqcjb?”
cEfpwqvoswqycpfs.,cpfe fpgs fvvxt

“Rnx,cnspcgbbgncfebc nfggbesoacfpcnbcfpwp,cnb-nb!cXqucfebcfocseqos fv
ibepqo!c qjb,cgsvvcrbcjbbg!”

“Schbvsbybcrbc focpfxc_aqq.-hxb_!”

“Gnfg’pcsocAq.’pcnfo.p,”cjuggbeb.cIqeksex,crsgncfocuoofguefvcpjsvbt

Fpcnbcrfvwb.cgnequancgnbcqkks b,cEfpwqvoswqycoqgs b.cgnfgcjfoxcibqivb
rbebcvqqwsoacfgcnsjtcFjqoacgnbjcnbcpfrcgnbcgrqciqegbepckeqjc_gnb_cnqupb,
rnqjcnbcnf.csoysgb.cgnfgcosangcgqcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqotcGnbxcpgqq.cgnbeb
rfsgsoatcHugcnbcrfpcoqcpqqobecqocgnbcpgfsepcgnfocnbcnbfe.cgnbcyqs bcqk
IqeksexcIbgeqysg nchbnso.cnsjtcGueosoacequo.,cnbcpfrcgnbcvfggbeceuoosoa
fkgbecnsj,cqugcqkchebfgnt

“Qobcrqe.,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n;cfpcgqcfvvcgnbcebpg,csg’pcsocAq.’pcnfo.p,
hugcfpcfcjfggbecqkckqejcgnbebcfebcpqjbclubpgsqopcScpnfvvcnfybcgqcfpw
xqutttcpqcrbcpnfvvcjbbgcfafso,cpnfo’gcrb?”

Fo.cIqeksexcpgqq.cpgsvv,ckf soacnsjcrsgncfcpjsvbt

“Pnfo’gcrb?”cnbcf..b.cfafsot

Nbcpbbjb.cgqcrfogcgqcpfxcpqjbgnsoacjqeb,chugc quv.coqgcpibfwcqugt

“Xqucjupgckqeasybcjb,cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,ckqecrnfgcnfpcmupgcifppb.tttcS
vqpgcjxcgbjibe,”chbafocEfpwqvoswqy,crnqcnf.cpqckfecebafsob.cnspc quefab
gnfgcnbckbvgcseebpspgshvxcso vsob.cgqc.spivfxcnspc qqvobppt

“.qo’gcjbogsqocsg,c.qo’gcjbogsqocsg,”cIqeksexcebivsb.,cfvjqpgcavbbkuvvxt
“Scjxpbvk,cgqqtttcScnfybcfcrs wb.cgbjibe,cScf.jsgcsg!cHugcrbcpnfvvcjbbg
fafsotcSkcsg’pcAq.’pcrsvv,crbcjfxcpbbcfcaebfgc.bfvcqkcqobcfoqgnbet”

“Fo.crsvvcabgcgqcwoqrcbf ncqgnbecgnequancfo.cgnequan?”cf..b.
Efpwqvoswqyt

“Xbp;cwoqrcbf ncqgnbecgnequancfo.cgnequan,”cfppbogb.cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,
fo.cnbcp ebrb.cuicnspcbxbp,cvqqwsoacbfeobpgvxcfgcEfpwqvoswqytc“Oqr
xqu’ebcaqsoacgqcfchsegn.fxcifegx?”

“Gqcfckuobefvt”

“Qkc quepb,cgnbckuobefv!cGfwbc febcqkcxquepbvk,cfo.cabgcrbvvt”

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcgqcrspncxqu,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,crnqcnf.chbauocgq
.bp bo.cgnbcpgfsep,chugcvqqwb.chf wcfafsotc“Scpnquv.cvswbcgqcrspncxqu
pu  bpp,chugcxquecqkks bcspcpu ncfc qjs fvcqobt”

“Rnxc qjs fv?”cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncnf.cgueob.cgqcaq,chugcnbcpbbjb.cgq
ies wcuicnspcbfepcfgcgnspt

“Rnx,cnqrcxqucjupgcnfybchbbocgqeguesoacfo.cnfefppsoacgnfgciqqecOswqvfx
ipx nqvqas fvvx,cfkgbecxqueckfpnsqo,cgsvvcnbc qokbppb.!cXqucjupgcnfyb
hbbocfgcnsjc.fxcfo.cosang,cieqysoacgqcnsjcgnfgcnbcrfpcgnbcjue.bebe,cfo.
oqrcgnfgcnbcnfpc qokbppb.,cxqu’vvchbasocysyspb gsoacnsjcfafsotc‘Xqucfeb
vxsoa,’cxqu’vvcpfxtc‘Xqucfebcoqgcgnbcjue.bebe!cXquc fo’gchb!cSg’pcoqg
xquecqrocgfvbcxqucfebcgbvvsoa!’cXqucjupgcf.jsgcsg’pcfc qjs fvchupsobpp!”

“Nb-nb-nb!cXqucoqgs b.cgnbocgnfgcScpfs.cgqcOswqvfxcmupgcoqrcgnfgcsgcrfp
oqgcnspcqrocgfvbcnbcrfpcgbvvsoa?”

“Nqrc quv.cScnbvicoqgs soacsg!”

“Nb-nb!cXqucfebclus w-rsggb.tcXqucoqgs bcbybexgnsoa!cXqu’ybcebfvvxcf
ivfxkuvcjso.!cFo.cxqucfvrfxpckfpgbocqocgnbc qjs cps.btttcnb-nb!cGnbxcpfx
gnfgcrfpcgnbcjfewb.c nfef gbespgs cqkcAqaqv,cfjqoacgnbcresgbept”

“Xbp,cqkcAqaqvt”

“Xbp,cqkcAqaqvttttcScpnfvvcvqqwckqerfe.cgqcjbbgsoacxqut”

“PqcpnfvvcSt”

Efpwqvoswqycrfvwb.cpgefsangcnqjbtcNbcrfpcpqcju..vb.cfo.chbrsv.beb.cgnfg
qocabggsoacnqjbcnbcpfgckqecfclufegbecqkcfocnquecqocgnbcpqkf,cgexsoacgq
 qvvb gcnspcgnquangptcNbc.s.coqgcfggbjigcgqcgnsowcfhqugcOswqvfx;cnb
rfpcpguibksb.;cnbckbvgcgnfgcnspc qokbppsqocrfpcpqjbgnsoacsobdivs fhvb,
fjfzsoa--pqjbgnsoachbxqo.cnspcuo.bepgfo.soatcHugcOswqvfx’pc qokbppsqo
rfpcfocf gufvckf gtcGnbc qopblubo bpcqkcgnspckf gcrbebc vbfecgqcnsjcfg
qo b,csgpckfvpbnqq.c quv.coqgckfsvcgqchbc.sp qybeb.,cfo.cgnbocgnbx
rquv.chbcfkgbecnsjcfafsotcGsvvcgnbo,cfgcvbfpg,cnbcrfpckebbcfo.cjupgc.q
pqjbgnsoackqecnsjpbvk,ckqecgnbc.foabecrfpcsjjsobogt

Hugcnqrcsjjsobog?cNspciqpsgsqocaef.ufvvxchb fjbc vbfecgqcnsjt
Ebjbjhbesoa,cpwbg nsvx,cgnbcjfsocqugvsobpcqkcnspceb bogcp bobcrsgn
Iqeksex,cnbc quv.coqgcnbvicpnu..besoacfafsocrsgncnqeeqetcQkc quepb,
nbc.s.coqgcxbgcwoqrcfvvcIqeksex’pcfsjp,cnbc quv.coqgcpbbcsogqcfvvcnsp
 fv uvfgsqoptcHugcnbcnf.cfvebf.xcifegvxcpnqrocnspcnfo.,cfo.coqcqobcwobr
hbggbecgnfocEfpwqvoswqycnqrcgbeeshvbcIqeksex’pc“vbf.”cnf.chbbockqe
nsjtcFcvsggvbcjqebcfo.cnbc_jsang_cnfybcasybocnsjpbvkcfrfxc qjivbgbvx,
 se ujpgfogsfvvxtcWoqrsoacnspcobeyqupcgbjibefjbogcfo.ckeqjcgnbcksepg
avfo bcpbbsoacgnequancnsj,cIqeksex,cgnquancivfxsoacfchqv.cafjb,crfp
hquo.cgqcrsotcGnbeb’pcoqc.boxsoacgnfgcEfpwqvoswqycnf.c qjieqjspb.
nsjpbvkcpbesqupvx,chugcoqc_kf gp_cnf.c qjbcgqcvsangcfpcxbg;cgnbebcrfp
oqgnsoaciqpsgsybtcHugcrfpcnbcgfwsoacfcgeubcysbrcqkcgnbciqpsgsqo?cRfpo’g
nbcjspgfwbo?cRnfgcnf.cIqeksexchbbocgexsoacgqcabgcfg?cNf.cnbcebfvvxcpqjb
pueiespbciebifeb.ckqecnsj?cFo.crnfgcrfpcsg?cNf.cnbcebfvvxchbbocbdib gsoa
pqjbgnsoacqecoqg?cNqrcrquv.cgnbxcnfybcifegb.cskcsgcnf.coqgchbbockqecgnb
uobdib gb.cfiibfefo bcqkcOswqvfx?

Iqeksexcnf.cpnqrocfvjqpgcfvvcnspc fe.p--qkc quepb,cnbcnf.cespwb.
pqjbgnsoacsocpnqrsoacgnbj--fo.cskcnbcnf.cebfvvxcnf.cfoxgnsoacuicnsp
pvbbybc(Efpwqvoswqycebkvb gb.),cnbcrquv.cnfybcpnqrocgnfg,cgqqtcRnfgcrfp
gnfgc“pueiespb”?cRfpcsgcfcmqwb?cNf.csgcjbfogcfoxgnsoa?c quv.csgcnfyb
 qo bfvb.cfoxgnsoacvswbcfckf g,cfcisb bcqkciqpsgsybcbys.bo b?cNsp
xbpgbe.fx’pcyspsgqe?cRnfgcnf.chb qjbcqkcnsj?cRnbebcrfpcnbcgq-.fx?cSk
Iqeksexcebfvvxcnf.cfoxcbys.bo b,csgcjupgchbc qoob gb.crsgncnsjtttt

Nbcpfgcqocgnbcpqkfcrsgncnspcbvhqrpcqocnspcwobbpcfo.cnspckf bcns..bocso
nspcnfo.ptcNbcrfpcpgsvvcpnsybesoacobeyqupvxtcFgcvfpgcnbcaqgcui,cgqqwcnsp
 fi,cgnquangcfcjsougb,cfo.crbogcgqcgnbc.qqet

Nbcnf.cfcpqegcqkciebpbogsjbogcgnfgckqecgq-.fx,cfgcvbfpg,cnbcjsang
 qops.becnsjpbvkcqugcqkc.foabetcNbcnf.cfcpu..bocpbopbcfvjqpgcqkcmqx;cnb
rfogb.cgqcjfwbcnfpgbcgqcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’ptcNbcrquv.chbcgqqcvfgbckqe
gnbckuobefv,cqkc quepb,chugcnbcrquv.chbcsocgsjbckqecgnbcjbjqesfvc.soobe,
fo.cgnbebcfgcqo bcnbcrquv.cpbbcPqosft

Nbcpgqq.cpgsvv,cgnquangcfcjqjbog,cfo.cfcpukkbesoacpjsvbc fjbckqecf
jqjbogcqocgqcnspcvsipt

“Gq-.fx!cGq-.fx,”cnbcebibfgb.cgqcnsjpbvktc“Xbp,cgq-.fx!cPqcsgcjupg
hbtttt”

Hugcfpcnbcrfpcfhqugcgqcqibocgnbc.qqe,csgchbafocqibosoacqkcsgpbvktcNb
pgfegb.cfo.cjqyb.chf wtcGnbc.qqecqibob.cabogvxcfo.cpvqrvx,cfo.cgnbeb
pu..bovxcfiibfeb.cfcksaueb--xbpgbe.fx’pcyspsgqec_keqjcuo.beaequo._t

Gnbcjfocpgqq.csocgnbc.qqerfx,cvqqwb.cfgcEfpwqvoswqycrsgnqugcpibfwsoa,
fo.cgqqwcfcpgbickqerfe.csogqcgnbceqqjtcNbcrfpcbdf gvxcgnbcpfjbcfp
xbpgbe.fx;cgnbcpfjbcksaueb,cgnbcpfjbc.ebpp,chugcgnbebcrfpcfcaebfgc nfoab
socnspckf b;cnbcvqqwb.c.bmb gb.cfo.cpsanb.c.bbivxtcSkcnbcnf.cqovxciug
nspcnfo.cuicgqcnspc nbbwcfo.cvbfob.cnspcnbf.cqocqobcps.bcnbcrquv.cnfyb
vqqwb.cbdf gvxcvswbcfcibfpfogcrqjfot

“Rnfgc.qcxqucrfog?”cfpwb.cEfpwqvoswqy,coujhcrsgncgbeeqetcGnbcjfocrfp
pgsvvcpsvbog,chugcpu..bovxcnbchqrb.c.qrocfvjqpgcgqcgnbcaequo.,cgqu nsoa
sgcrsgncnspcksoabet

“Rnfgcspcsg?”c esb.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“Scnfybcpsoob.,”cgnbcjfocfegs uvfgb.cpqkgvxt

“Nqr?”

“Hxcbysvcgnquangpt”

Gnbxcvqqwb.cfgcqobcfoqgnbet

“Scrfpcybdb.tcRnbocxquc fjb,cibenfipcsoc.esow,cfo.chf.bcgnbciqegbepcaq
gqcgnbciqvs bcpgfgsqocfo.cfpwb.cfhqugcgnbchvqq.,cScrfpcybdb.cgnfgcgnbx
vbgcxqucaqcfo.cgqqwcxquckqec.euowbotcScrfpcpqcybdb.cgnfgcScvqpgcjx
pvbbitcFo.cebjbjhbesoacgnbcf..ebppcrbc fjbcnbebcxbpgbe.fxcfo.cfpwb.ckqe
xqutttt”

“Rnqc fjb?”cEfpwqvoswqycsogbeeuigb.,csopgfogvxchbasoosoacgqceb qvvb gt

“Sc.s.,cS’ybcreqoab.cxqut”

“Gnbocxquc qjbckeqjcgnfgcnqupb?”

“Scrfpcpgfo.soacfgcgnbcafgbcrsgncgnbjtttc.qo’gcxqucebjbjhbe?cRbcnfyb
 feesb.cqocquecgef.bcsocgnfgcnqupbckqecxbfepcifpgtcRbc uebcfo.ciebifeb
ns.bp,crbcgfwbcrqewcnqjbtttcjqpgcqkcfvvcScrfpcybdb.tttt”

Fo.cgnbcrnqvbcp bobcqkcgnbc.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fxcsocgnbcafgbrfxc fjb
 vbfevxchbkqebcEfpwqvoswqy’pcjso.;cnbceb qvvb gb.cgnfgcgnbebcnf.
hbbocpbybefvcibqivbcgnbebchbps.bpcgnbciqegbep,crqjbocfjqoacgnbjt
Nbcebjbjhbeb.cqobcyqs bcnf.cpuaabpgb.cgfwsoacnsjcpgefsangcgqcgnb
iqvs b-pgfgsqotcNbc quv.coqgceb fvvcgnbckf bcqkcgnbcpibfwbe,cfo.cbybo
oqrcnbc.s.coqgceb qaospbcsg,chugcnbcebjbjhbeb.cgnfgcnbcnf.cgueob.cequo.
fo.cjf.bcnsjcpqjbcfoprbetttt

Pqcgnspcrfpcgnbcpqvugsqocqkcxbpgbe.fx’pcnqeeqetcGnbcjqpgcfrkuvcgnquang
rfpcgnfgcnbcnf.chbbocf gufvvxcfvjqpgcvqpg,cnf.cfvjqpgc.qobckqecnsjpbvk
qocf  quogcqkcpu ncfc_gesysfv_c se ujpgfo btcPqcgnspcjfoc quv.cgbvv
oqgnsoacbd bigcnspcfpwsoacfhqugcgnbckvfgcfo.cgnbchvqq.cpgfsoptcPq
Iqeksex,cgqq,cnf.coqgnsoachugcgnfgc_.bvsesuj_,coqckf gpchugcgnsp
_ipx nqvqax_crns nc_ ugpchqgncrfxp_,coqgnsoaciqpsgsybtcPqcskcoqcjqeb
kf gpc qjbcgqcvsangc(fo.cgnbxcjupgcoqg,cgnbxcjupgcoqg!)cgnbotttcgnbo
rnfgc focgnbxc.qcgqcnsj?cNqrc focgnbxc qoys gcnsj,cbybocskcgnbxcfeebpg
nsj?cFo.cIqeksexcgnbocnf.cqovxcmupgcnbfe.cfhqugcgnbckvfgcfo.cnf.coqg
woqrocfhqugcsgchbkqebt

“Rfpcsgcxqucrnqcgqv.cIqeksextttcgnfgcS’.chbbocgnbeb?”cnbc esb.,cpgeu w
hxcfcpu..bocs.bft

“RnfgcIqeksex?”

“Gnbcnbf.cqkcgnbc.bgb gsybc.bifegjbog?”

“XbptcGnbciqegbepc.s.coqgcaqcgnbeb,chugcScrbogt”

“Gq-.fx?”

“ScaqgcgnbebcgrqcjsougbpchbkqebcxqutcFo.cScnbfe.,cScnbfe.csgcfvv,cnqrcnb
rqeesb.cxqut”

“Rnbeb?cRnfg?cRnbo?”

“Rnx,csocgnbcobdgceqqjtcScrfpcpsggsoacgnbebcfvvcgnbcgsjbt”

“Rnfg?cRnx,cgnbocxqucrbebcgnbcpueiespb?cHugcnqrc quv.csgcnfiibo?cUiqocjx
rqe.!”

“Scpfrcgnfgcgnbciqegbepc.s.coqgcrfogcgqc.qcrnfgcScpfs.,”chbafocgnbcjfo;
“kqecsg’pcgqqcvfgb,cpfs.cgnbx,cfo.cjfxhbcnb’vvchbcfoaexcgnfgcrbc.s.coqg
 qjbcfgcgnbcgsjbtcScrfpcybdb.cfo.cScvqpgcjxcpvbbi,cfo.cSchbafocjfwsoa
solusesbptcFo.ckso.soacqugcxbpgbe.fxcrnbebcgqcaq,cScrbogcgq-.fxtcGnb
ksepgcgsjbcScrbogcnbcrfpo’gcgnbeb,crnbocSc fjbcfocnquecvfgbecnbc quv.o’g
pbbcjbtcScrbogcgnbcgnse.cgsjb,cfo.cgnbxcpnqrb.cjbcsotcScsokqejb.cnsjcqk
bybexgnsoa,cmupgcfpcsgcnfiibob.,cfo.cnbchbafocpwsiisoacfhqugcgnbceqqj
fo.ciuo nsoacnsjpbvkcqocgnbc nbpgtc‘Rnfgc.qcxqucp quo.ebvpcjbfochxcsg?
SkcS’.cwoqrocfhqugcsgcScpnquv.cnfybcfeebpgb.cnsj!’cGnbocnbcefocqug,
 fvvb.cpqjbhq.xcfo.chbafocgfvwsoacgqcnsjcsocgnbc qeobe,cgnbocnbcgueob.
gqcjb,cp qv.soacfo.clubpgsqosoacjbtcNbcp qv.b.cjbcfcaebfgc.bfv;cfo.cS
gqv.cnsjcbybexgnsoa,cfo.cScgqv.cnsjcgnfgcxquc.s.o’gc.febcgqcpfxcfcrqe.
socfoprbecgqcjbcxbpgbe.fxcfo.cgnfgcxquc.s.o’gceb qaospbcjbtcFo.cnb
kbvvcgqceuoosoacfhqugcfafsocfo.cwbigcnsggsoacnsjpbvkcqocgnbc nbpg,cfo.
abggsoacfoaexcfo.ceuoosoacfhqug,cfo.crnbocxqucrbebcfooquo b.cnbcgqv.
jbcgqcaqcsogqcgnbcobdgceqqjtc‘Psgcgnbebcfchsg,’cnbcpfs.tc‘.qo’gcjqyb,
rnfgbybecxqucjfxcnbfet’cFo.cnbcpbgcfc nfsecgnbebckqecjbcfo.cvq wb.
jbcsotc‘Ibenfip,’cnbcpfs.,c‘Scjfxc fvvcxqut’cFo.crnbocOswqvfx’.chbbo
hequangcnbcvbgcjbcqugcfpcpqqocfpcxqucrbebcaqobtc‘Scpnfvvcpbo.ckqecxqu
fafsocfo.clubpgsqocxqu,’cnbcpfs.t”

“Fo.c.s.cnbclubpgsqocOswqvfxcrnsvbcxqucrbebcgnbeb?”

“Nbcaqgces.cqkcjbcfpcnbc.s.cqkcxqu,chbkqebcnbcpiqwbcgqcOswqvfxt”

Gnbcjfocpgqq.cpgsvv,cfo.cfafsocpu..bovxchqrb.c.qro,cgqu nsoacgnbcaequo.
rsgncnspcksoabet

“Kqeasybcjbckqecjxcbysvcgnquangp,cfo.cjxcpvfo.bet”

“JfxcAq.ckqeasybcxqu,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqyt

Fo.cfpcnbcpfs.cgnsp,cgnbcjfochqrb.c.qrocfafso,chugcoqgcgqcgnbcaequo.,
gueob.cpvqrvxcfo.crbogcqugcqkcgnbceqqjt

“Sgcfvvc ugpchqgncrfxp,coqrcsgcfvvc ugpchqgncrfxp,”cebibfgb.
Efpwqvoswqy,cfo.cnbcrbogcqugcjqebc qoks.bogcgnfocbybet

“Oqrcrb’vvcjfwbcfcksangckqecsg,”cnbcpfs.,crsgncfcjfvs squpcpjsvb,cfpcnb
rbogc.qrocgnbcpgfseptcNspcjfvs bcrfpcfsjb.cfgcnsjpbvk;crsgncpnfjbcfo.
 qogbjigcnbceb qvvb gb.cnspc“ qrfe.s bt”




IFEGcY



 NFIGBEcS

Gnbcjqeosoacgnfgckqvvqrb.cgnbckfgbkuvcsogbeysbrcrsgnc.quosfcfo.
nbecjqgnbechequangcpqhbesoacsokvubo bpcgqchbfecqocIxqgecIbgeqysg nt
Sogbopbvxcuoivbfpfogcfpcsgcrfp,cnbcrfpckqe b.cvsggvbchxcvsggvbcgqcf  big
fpcfckf gchbxqo.ceb fvvcrnfgcnf.cpbbjb.cgqcnsjcqovxcgnbc.fxchbkqeb
kfogfpgs cfo.cso eb.shvbtcGnbchvf wcpofwbcqkcrquo.b.cyfosgxcnf.chbbo
aofrsoacfgcnspcnbfegcfvvcosangtcRnbocnbcaqgcqugcqkchb.,cIxqgecIbgeqysg n
sjjb.sfgbvxcvqqwb.csocgnbcvqqwsoa-avfpptcNbcrfpcfkefs.cgnfgcnbcnf.
mfuo.s btcNqrbybecnspcnbfvgncpbbjb.cuosjifseb.cpqckfe,cfo.cvqqwsoacfg
nspcoqhvb,c vbfe-pwsoob.c quogbofo bcrns ncnf.caeqrockfggspncqk
vfgb,cIxqgecIbgeqysg nckqecfocsopgfogcrfpciqpsgsybvxc qjkqegb.csocgnb
 qoys gsqocgnfgcnbcrquv.ckso.cfoqgnbeches.bcfo.,cibenfip,cbybocfchbggbe
qobtcHugc qjsoachf wcgqcgnbcpbopbcqkcnspciebpbogciqpsgsqo,cnbcgueob.
fps.bcfo.cpifgcysaqequpvx,crns ncbd sgb.cfcpfe fpgs cpjsvbcsocFo.ebx
Pbjxqoqysg ncVbhbzsfgoswqy,cgnbcxquoackesbo.crsgncrnqjcnbcrfpcpgfxsoat
GnfgcpjsvbcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncoqgs b.,cfo.cfgcqo bcpbgcsgc.qrocfafsopgcnsp
xquoackesbo.’pcf  quogtcNbcnf.cpbgc.qrocfcaqq.cjfoxciqsogpcfafsopgcnsj
qkcvfgbtcNspcfoabecrfpceb.quhvb.crnbocnbcebkvb gb.cgnfgcnbcquangcoqgcgq
nfybcgqv.cFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg ncfhqugcgnbcebpuvgcqkcxbpgbe.fx’pcsogbeysbrt
Gnfgcrfpcgnbcpb qo.cjspgfwbcnbcnf.cjf.bcsocgbjibe,cgnequancsjiuvpsybobpp
fo.cseesgfhsvsgxttttcJqebqybe,cfvvcgnfgcjqeosoacqobcuoivbfpfogobpp
kqvvqrb.cfoqgnbetcNbcbybockquo.cfcnsg ncfrfsgsoacnsjcsocnspcvbafvc fpb
socgnbcpbofgbtcNbcrfpcifegs uvfevxcseesgfgb.chxcgnbcqrobecqkcgnbckvfg
rns ncnf.chbbocgfwbocsocysbrcqkcnspcfiieqf nsoacjfeesfabcfo.crfpchbsoa
eb.b qefgb.cfgcnspcqrocbdibopb;cgnbcqrobe,cfces ncAbejfocgef.bpjfo,
rquv.coqgcbogbegfsocgnbcs.bfcqkchebfwsoacgnbc qogef gcrns ncnf.cmupg
hbbocpsaob.cfo.csopspgb.cqocgnbckuvvckqekbsgcjqobx,cgnquancIxqge
Ibgeqysg ncrquv.chbcasysoacnsjchf wcgnbckvfgcief gs fvvxceb.b qefgb.tcSo
gnbcpfjbcrfxcgnbcuinqvpgbebepcebkupb.cgqcebgueocfcpsoavbcequhvbcqkcgnb
sopgfvjbogcifs.ckqecgnbckueosguebciue nfpb.chugcoqgcxbgcebjqyb.cgqcgnb
kvfgt

“FjcScgqcabgcjfeesb.cpsjivxckqecgnbcpfwbcqkcgnbckueosgueb?”cIxqge
Ibgeqysg ncaequo.cnspcgbbgncfo.cfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcqo bcjqebcnbcnf.cf
avbfjcqkc.bpibefgbcnqibtc“ focfvvcgnfgchbcebfvvxcpqcseebyq fhvxcqybe?
Spcsgcoqcupbcgqcjfwbcfoqgnbecbkkqeg?”cGnbcgnquangcqkc.quosfcpbogcf
yqvuiguqupcifoacgnequancnspcnbfegtcNbcbo.ueb.cfoauspncfgcgnfgcjqjbog,
fo.cskcsgcnf.chbbociqppshvbcgqcpvfxcEfpwqvoswqycsopgfogvxchxcrspnsoacsg,
IxqgecIbgeqysg ncrquv.cieqjigvxcnfybcuggbeb.cgnbcrspnt

“Sgcrfpcjxcjspgfwb,cgqq,coqgcgqcnfybcasybocgnbjcjqobx,”cnbcgnquang,cfp
nbcebgueob.c.bmb gb.vxcgqcVbhbzsfgoswqy’pceqqj,c“fo.crnxcqocbfegncrfpcS
pu ncfcMbr?cSgcrfpckfvpbcb qoqjx!cScjbfogcgqcwbbicgnbjcrsgnqugcfciboox
pqcgnfgcgnbxcpnquv.cgueocgqcjbcfpcgnbsecieqys.bo b,cfo.cvqqwcfgcgnbj!
kqq!cSkcS’.cpibogcpqjbckskgbbocnuo.eb.cequhvbpcqocgnbjckqecgnbcgequppbfu
fo.ciebpbogp,cqocwos w-wof wp,c.ebppsoa- fpbp,cmbrbvvbex,cjfgbesfvp,cfo.
fvvcgnfgcpqegcqkcgefpnckeqjcWoqii’pcfo.cgnbcBoavspncpnqi,cjxciqpsgsqo
rquv.cnfybchbbochbggbecfo.tttcpgeqoabe!cGnbxc quv.coqgcnfybcebkupb.cjb
pqcbfpsvx!cGnbxcfebcgnbcpqegcqkcibqivbcgnfgcrquv.ckbbvchquo.cgqcebgueo
jqobxcfo.ciebpbogpcskcgnbxcheqwbcsgcqkk;cfo.cgnbxcrquv.ckso.csgcnfe.cgq
.qcsg!cFo.cgnbsec qop sbo bcrquv.cies wcgnbj:cnqrc focrbc.spjsppcfcjfo
rnqcnfpcnsgnbegqchbbocpqcabobequpcfo.c.bvs fgb?ttttcN’j!cS’ybcjf.bcf
hvuo.bet”

Fo.caeso.soacnspcgbbgncfafso,cIxqgecIbgeqysg nc fvvb.cnsjpbvkcf
kqqv--hugcoqgcfvqu.,cqkc quepbt

Nbcebgueob.cnqjb,cgrs bcfpcseesgfgb.cfo.cfoaexcfpchbkqebtcGnb
iebifefgsqopckqecgnbckuobefvc.soobecfgcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pcbd sgb.
nspc uesqpsgxcfpcnbcifppb.tcNbcnf.cnbfe.cfhqugcsgcgnbc.fxchbkqeb;cnb
kfo sb.,cso.bb.,cgnfgcnbcnf.chbbocsoysgb.,chugcfhpqehb.csocnspcqroc febp
nbcnf.cifs.coqcfggbogsqotcSolusesoacqkcJf.fjbcVsiibyb npbvcrnqcrfpchupx
vfxsoacgnbcgfhvbcrnsvbcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrfpcfrfxcfgcgnbc bjbgbex,cnb
nbfe.cgnfgcgnbcbogbegfsojbogcrfpcgqchbcfcaebfgcfkkfse,cgnfgcfvvcgnb
vq.abepcnf.chbbocsoysgb.,cfjqoacgnbjcpqjbcrnqcnf.coqgcwoqrocgnbc.bf.
jfo,cgnfgcbybocFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg ncVbhbzsfgoswqycrfpcsoysgb.csocpisgbcqk
nspciebysqupclufeebvcrsgncWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cgnfgcnb,cIxqgecIbgeqysg n,
rfpcoqgcqovxcsoysgb.,chugcrfpcbfabevxcbdib gb.cfpcnbcrfpcgnbcjqpg
sjiqegfogcqkcgnbcvq.abeptcFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcnbepbvkcnf.chbbocsoysgb.crsgn
aebfgc bebjqoxcsocpisgbcqkcgnbceb bogcuoivbfpfogobpp,cfo.cpqcpnbcrfp
ybexchupxcrsgnciebifefgsqopcfo.crfpcgfwsoacfciqpsgsybcivbfpuebcsocgnbj;
pnbcrfpcjqebqybec.ebppb.cuicgqcgnbcosobp,cfvvcsocobrchvf wcpsvw,cfo.cpnb
rfpciequ.cqkcsgtcFvvcgnspcpuaabpgb.cfocs.bfcgqcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncfo.cnb
rbogcsogqcnspceqqj,cqecefgnbecVbhbzsfgoswqy’p,cpqjbrnfgcgnquangkuvtcNb
nf.cvbfeogcgnfgcEfpwqvoswqycrfpcgqchbcqobcqkcgnbcaubpgpt

Fo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg ncnf.chbbocfgcnqjbcfvvcgnbcjqeosoatcGnbcfggsgu.bcqk
IxqgecIbgeqysg ncgqcgnspcabogvbjfocrfpcpgefoab,cgnquancibenfipcofguefvt
IxqgecIbgeqysg ncnf.c.bpispb.cfo.cnfgb.cnsjckeqjcgnbc.fxcnbc fjbcgqcpgfx
rsgncnsjcfo.cfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcnbcpbbjb.cpqjbrnfgcfkefs.cqkcnsjtcNb
nf.coqgc qjbcgqcpgfxcrsgncnsjcqocnspcfeesyfvcsocIbgbephueacpsjivxckeqj
ifepsjqox,cgnquancgnfgcnf.chbbocibenfipcnspc nsbkcqhmb gtcNbcnf.cnbfe.
qkcFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg n,crnqcnf.cqo bchbbocnspcrfe.,cfpcfcvbf.soacxquoa
ieqaebppsybcrnqcrfpcgfwsoacfocsjiqegfogcifegcsoc begfsocsogbebpgsoa
 se vbp,cgnbc.qsoapcqkcrns ncrbebcfcvbabo.csocgnbcieqyso bptcSgcnf.
sjiebppb.cIxqgecIbgeqysg ntcGnbpbciqrbekuvcqjosp sbogc se vbpcrnq
.bpispb.cbybexqobcfo.cpnqrb.cbybexqobcuicnf.cvqoacsopiseb.csocnsjcf
ib uvsfechugclusgbcyfaubcfvfejtcNbcnf.coqg,cqkc quepb,chbbocfhvbcgqckqej
bybocfocfiieqdsjfgbcoqgsqocqkcrnfgcgnbxcjbfogtcNb,cvswbcbybexqob,cnf.
nbfe.cgnfgcgnbebcrbeb,cbpib sfvvxcsocIbgbephuea,cieqaebppsybpcqkcpqjb
pqeg,cosnsvspgpcfo.cpqcqo,cfo.,cvswbcjfoxcibqivb,cnbcbdfaabefgb.cfo.
.spgqegb.cgnbcpsaosks fo bcqkcgnqpbcrqe.pcgqcfocfhpue.c.baebbtcRnfgckqe
jfoxcxbfepcifpgcnbcnf.ckbfeb.cjqebcgnfocfoxgnsoacrfpc_hbsoacpnqro
ui_cfo.cgnspcrfpcgnbc nsbkcaequo.ckqecnspc qogsoufvcuobfpsobppcfgcgnb
gnquangcqkcgefopkbeesoacnspchupsobppcgqcIbgbephueatcNbcrfpcfkefs.cqk
gnspcfpcvsggvbc nsv.ebocfebcpqjbgsjbpcifos -pges wbotcPqjbcxbfepchbkqeb,
rnbocnbcrfpcmupgcbogbesoacqocnspcqroc febbe,cnbcnf.c qjbcuiqocgrqc fpbp
socrns ncefgnbecsjiqegfogcibepqofabpcsocgnbcieqyso b,cifgeqopcqkcnsp,
nf.chbboc eubvvxcpnqrocuitcQobcsopgfo bcnf.cbo.b.csocaebfgcp fo.fv
kqecgnbcibepqocfggf wb.cfo.cgnbcqgnbecnf.cybexcobfevxcbo.b.csocpbesqup
gequhvbtcKqecgnspcebfpqocIxqgecIbgeqysg ncsogbo.b.cgqcaqcsogqcgnb
puhmb gcfpcpqqocfpcnbcebf nb.cIbgbephueacfo.,cskcob bppfex,cgq
fogs sifgbc qogsoabo sbpchxcpbbwsoacgnbckfyquecqkc“quecxquoabe
abobefgsqot”cNbcebvsb.cqocFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg nckqecgnspcfo.chbkqeb
nspcyspsgcgqcEfpwqvoswqycnbcnf.cpu  bb.b.csocis wsoacuicpqjbc ueebog
inefpbptcNbcpqqoc.sp qybeb.cgnfgcFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg ncrfpcfc qjjqoivf b
psjivbgqo,chugcgnfgchxcoqcjbfopcebfppueb.cIxqgecIbgeqysg ntcBybocskcnb
nf.chbboc begfsocgnfgcfvvcgnbcieqaebppsybpcrbebckqqvpcvswbcnsj,csg
rquv.coqgcnfybcfvvfxb.cnspcuobfpsobpptcFvvcgnbc.q gesobp,cgnbcs.bfp,cgnb
pxpgbjp,crsgncrns ncFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg ncibpgbeb.cnsjcnf.coqcsogbebpgckqe
nsjtcNbcnf.cnspcqrocqhmb g--nbcpsjivxcrfogb.cgqckso.cqugcfgcqo bcrnfg
rfpcnfiibosoac_nbeb_tcNf.cgnbpbcibqivbcfoxciqrbecqecoqg?cNf.cnbcfoxgnsoa
gqckbfeckeqjcgnbj?cRquv.cgnbxcbdiqpbcfoxcbogbeiespbcqkcnsp?cFo.crnfg
ieb spbvxcrfpcoqrcgnbcqhmb gcqkcgnbsecfggf wp?c quv.cnbcpqjbnqrcjfwbcui
gqcgnbjcfo.cabgcequo.cgnbjcskcgnbxcebfvvxcrbebciqrbekuv?cRfpcgnspcgnb
gnsoacgqc.qcqecoqg?c quv.o’gcnbcafsocpqjbgnsoacgnequancgnbj?cSockf g
nuo.eb.pcqkclubpgsqopciebpbogb.cgnbjpbvybpt

Fo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg ncrfpcfocfoæjs ,cp eqkuvqupcvsggvbcjfo,crsgncpgefoabvx
kvfdbocjuggqo- nqicrnspwbepcqkcrns ncnbcrfpcybexciequ.tcNbcrfpcfc vbew
fo.cnf.cfvjqpgcfvrfxpcpqjbgnsoacreqoacrsgncnspcbxbptcNbcrfpcefgnbe
pqkg-nbfegb.,chugcpbvk- qoks.bogcfo.cpqjbgsjbpcbdgebjbvxc qo bsgb.cso
pibb n,crns ncnf.cfocfhpue.cbkkb g,cso qoaeuqupcrsgncnspcvsggvbcksauebt
Nbcrfpcqobcqkcgnbcvq.abepcjqpgcebpib gb.chxcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof,ckqecnbc.s.
oqgcabgc.euowcfo.cifs.cebauvfevxckqecnspcvq.asoaptcFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg n
ebfvvxcrfpcefgnbecpguis.;cnbcfggf nb.cnsjpbvkcgqcgnbc fupbcqkcieqaebpp
fo.c“quecxquoabecabobefgsqo”ckeqjcbognupsfpjtcNbcrfpcqobcqkcgnbcoujbequp
fo.cyfesb.cvbasqocqkc.uvvfe.p,cqkcnfvk-fosjfgbcfhqegsqop,c qo bsgb.,
nfvk-b.u fgb.c qd qjhp,crnqcfggf ncgnbjpbvybpcgqcgnbcs.bfcjqpgcso
kfpnsqocqovxcgqcyuvafespbcsgcfo.crnqc fes fguebcbybexc fupbcgnbxcpbeyb,
nqrbybecpso bebvxt

GnquancVbhbzsfgoswqycrfpcpqcaqq.-ofgueb.,cnb,cgqq,crfpchbasoosoacgq
.spvswbcIxqgecIbgeqysg ntcGnspcnfiibob.cqochqgncps.bpcuo qop squpvxt
NqrbybecpsjivbcFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg ncjsangchb,cnbchbafocgqcpbbcgnfgcIxqge
Ibgeqysg ncrfpc.uisoacnsjcfo.cpb ebgvxc.bpispsoacnsj,cfo.cgnfgc“nbcrfp
oqgcgnbcesangcpqegcqkcjfot”cNbcnf.cgesb.cbdiquo.soacgqcnsjcgnbcpxpgbjcqk
Kquesbecfo.cgnbc.fersosfocgnbqex,chugcqkcvfgbcIxqgecIbgeqysg nchbafocgq
vspgbocgqqcpfe fpgs fvvxcfo.cbybocgqchbceu.btcGnbckf gcrfpcnbcnf.chbauo
sopgso gsybvxcgqcaubppcgnfgcVbhbzsfgoswqycrfpcoqgcjbebvxcfc qjjqoivf b
psjivbgqo,chug,cibenfip,cfcvsfe,cgqq,cfo.cgnfgcnbcnf.coqc qoob gsqopcqk
foxc qopblubo bcbybocsocnspcqroc se vb,chugcnf.cpsjivxcis wb.cgnsoapcui
gnse.-nfo.;cfo.cgnfgcybexcvswbvxcnbc.s.coqgcbybocwoqrcju ncfhqugcnspcqro
rqewcqkcieqifafo.f,ckqecnbcrfpcsocgqqcaebfgcfcju..vbtcFcksobcibepqocnb
rquv.chbcgqcpnqrcfoxqobcui!cSgcjupgchbcoqgb.,chxcgnbcrfx,cgnfgcIxqge
Ibgeqysg ncnf.c.uesoacgnqpbcgboc.fxpcbfabevxcf  bigb.cgnbcpgefoabpg
iefspbckeqjcFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg n;cnbcnf.coqgcieqgbpgb.,ckqecsopgfo b,
rnbocFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg nchbvfu.b.cnsjckqechbsoacebf.xcgqc qogeshugbcgq
gnbcbpgfhvspnjbogcqkcgnbcobrc“ qjjuob,”cqecgqcfhpgfsockeqjc nespgbosoa
nspckuguebc nsv.ebo,cqecgqcf lusbp bcskc.quosfcrbebcgqcgfwbcfcvqybecf
jqogncfkgbecjfeesfab,cfo.cpqcqotcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncpqcbomqxb.cnbfesoa
nspcqrociefspbpcgnfgcnbc.s.coqgc.sp.fsocbybocpu ncysegubpcrnbocgnbxcrbeb
fggeshugb.cgqcnsjt

IxqgecIbgeqysg ncnf.cnf.cq  fpsqocgnfgcjqeosoacgqcebfvspbcpqjb
ksyb-ibe- bogchqo.pcfo.coqrcnbcpfgc.qrocgqcgnbcgfhvbcfo.c quogb.cqybe
huo.vbpcqkcoqgbptcFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg ncrnqcnfe.vxcbybecnf.cfoxcjqobx
rfvwb.cfhqugcgnbceqqjciebgbo.soacgqcnsjpbvkcgqcvqqwcfgcfvvcgnqpbchfow
oqgbpcrsgncso.skkbebo bcfo.cbyboc qogbjigtcOqgnsoacrquv.cnfybc qoyso b.
IxqgecIbgeqysg ncgnfgcFo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg nc quv.cebfvvxcvqqwcqocgnbcjqobx
uojqyb.,cfo.cgnbcvfggbe,cqocnspcps.b,cwbigcgnsowsoachsggbevxcgnfgcIxqge
Ibgeqysg ncrfpc fifhvbcqkcbogbegfsosoacpu ncfocs.bfcfhqugcnsjcfo.
rfp,cibenfip,cavf.cqkcgnbcqiiqeguosgxcqkcgbfpsoacnspcxquoackesbo.chx
ebjso.soacnsjcqkcnspcsokbesqesgxcfo.cgnbcaebfgc.skkbebo bchbgrbbocgnbjt

Nbckquo.cnsjcso eb.shvxcsofggbogsybcfo.cseesgfhvb,cgnquancnb,cFo.ebx
Pbjxqoqysg n,chbafocbovfeasoacqocnspckfyquesgbcpuhmb g,cgnbckquo.fgsqo
qkcfcobrcpib sfvc“ qjjuobt”cGnbchesbkcebjfewpcgnfgc.eqiib.ckeqjcIxqge
Ibgeqysg nchbgrbbocgnbc vs wsoacqkcgnbchbf.pcqocgnbceb wqosoackefjb
hbgefxb.cuojspgfwfhvbcfo.c.sp quegbqupcseqoxtcHugcgnbc“nujfob”cFo.ebx
Pbjxqoqysg ncfp eshb.cIxqgecIbgeqysg n’pcsvv-nujquecgqcnspceb bogchebf n
rsgnc.quosfcfo.cnbcrfpchueosoacrsgncsjifgsbo bcgqc.sp quepbcqocgnfg
gnbjbtcNbcnf.cpqjbgnsoacieqaebppsybcgqcpfxcqocgnbcpuhmb gcrns n
jsangc qopqvbcnspcrqegnxckesbo.cfo.c“ quv.coqgckfsv”cgqcieqjqgbcnsp
.bybvqijbogt

“Gnbebcspcpqjbcpqegcqkckbpgsysgxchbsoaciebifeb.cfgcgnfgtttcfgcgnb
rs.qr’p,cspo’gcgnbeb?”cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncfpwb.cpu..bovx,csogbeeuigsoa
Fo.ebxcPbjxqoqysg ncfgcgnbcjqpgcsogbebpgsoacifppfabt

“Rnx,c.qo’gcxqucwoqr?cRnx,cScrfpcgbvvsoacxqucvfpgcosangcrnfgcScgnsow
fhqugcfvvcpu nc bebjqosbptcFo.cpnbcsoysgb.cxqucgqq,cScnbfe.tcXqucrbeb
gfvwsoacgqcnbecxbpgbe.fxttt”

“Scpnquv.cobybecnfybcbdib gb.cgnfgchbaafevxckqqvcrquv.cnfybcpibogcqo
gnspckbfpgcfvvcgnbcjqobxcpnbcaqgckeqjcgnfgcqgnbeckqqv,cEfpwqvoswqytcS
rfpcpueiespb.cmupgcoqrcfpcSc fjbcgnequancfgcgnbciebifefgsqopcgnbeb,cgnb
rsobp!cPbybefvcibqivbcfebcsoysgb.tcSg’pchbxqo.cbybexgnsoa!”c qogsoub.
IxqgecIbgeqysg n,crnqcpbbjb.cgqcnfybcpqjbcqhmb gcsociuepusoacgnb
 qoybepfgsqotc“Rnfg?cXqucpfxcScfjcfpwb.cgqq?cRnbocrfpcgnfg?cSc.qo’g
ebjbjhbetcHugcScpnfo’gcaqtcRnxcpnquv.cS?cScqovxcpfs.cfcrqe.cgqcnbecso
ifppsoacxbpgbe.fxcqkcgnbciqppshsvsgxcqkcnbecqhgfsosoacfcxbfe’pcpfvfexcfp
fc.bpgsgugbcrs.qrcqkcfcaqybeojbogc vbewtcScpuiiqpbcpnbcnfpcsoysgb.cjbcqo
gnfgcf  quog,cnfpo’gcpnb?cNb-nb-nb!”

“Sc.qo’gcsogbo.cgqcaqcbsgnbe,”cpfs.cVbhbzsfgoswqyt

“Scpnquv.cgnsowcoqg,cfkgbecasysoacnbecfcgnefpnsoa!cXqucjsangcrbvv
nbpsgfgb,cnb-nb!”

“Rnqcgnefpnb.?cRnqj?”c esb.cVbhbzsfgoswqy,ckvupgbeb.cfo.chvupnsoat

“Rnx,cxqucgnefpnb.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfcjqogncfaqtcScnbfe.cpq
xbpgbe.fxtttcpqcgnfg’pcrnfgcxquec qoys gsqopcfjquogcgqtttcfo.cgnbcrqjfo
lubpgsqo,cgqq,crfpo’gclusgbcpquo.,cnb-nb-nb!”cfo.cIxqgecIbgeqysg n,cfp
gnquanc qjkqegb.,crbogchf wcgqc vs wsoacnspchbf.pt

“Sg’pcfvvcpvfo.becfo.coqopbopb!”c esb.cVbhbzsfgoswqy,crnqcrfpcfvrfxp
fkefs.cqkcfvvupsqopcgqcgnbcpuhmb gtc“Sgcrfpcoqgcvswbcgnfgcfgcfvv,csg
rfpclusgbc.skkbebogtcXqu’ybcnbfe.csgcreqoa;csg’pcfcvshbvtcScrfpcpsjivx
.bkbo.soacjxpbvktcPnbceupnb.cfgcjbcksepgcrsgncnbecofsvp,cpnbciuvvb.
qugcfvvcjxcrnspwbepttttcSg’pcibejsppfhvbckqecfoxqob,cScpnquv.cnqib,
gqc.bkbo.cnsjpbvkcfo.cScobybecfvvqrcfoxqobcgqcupbcysqvbo bcgqcjbcqo
ieso sivb,ckqecsg’pcfocf gcqkc.bpiqgspjtcRnfgcrfpcScgqc.q?cScpsjivx
iupnb.cnbechf wt”

“Nb-nb-nb!”cVuznsocrbogcqocvfuansoacjfvs squpvxt

“Xqucwbbicqocvswbcgnfgchb fupbcxqucfebcqugcqkcnujquecxquepbvkttttcHug
gnfg’pcoqopbopbcfo.csgcnfpcoqgnsoa,coqgnsoacrnfgbybecgqc.qcrsgncgnb
rqjfoclubpgsqo!cXquc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.;cScupb.cgqcgnsow,cso.bb.,cgnfg
skcrqjbocfebcblufvcgqcjbocsocfvvcebpib gp,cbybocsocpgeboagnc(fpcsp
jfsogfsob.coqr)cgnbebcquangcgqchbcblufvsgxcsocgnfg,cgqqtcQkc quepb,cS
ebkvb gb.cfkgberfe.pcgnfgcpu ncfclubpgsqocquangcoqgcebfvvxcgqcfespb,
kqecgnbebcquangcoqgcgqchbcksangsoacfo.csocgnbckuguebcpq sbgxcksangsoacsp
uognsowfhvbtttcfo.cgnfgcsgcrquv.chbcfclubbecgnsoacgqcpbbwckqecblufvsgx
socksangsoatcScfjcoqgcpqcpguis.tttcgnquan,cqkc quepb,cgnbebcsp
ksangsoatttcgnbebcrqo’gchbcvfgbe,chugcfgciebpbogcgnbebcsptttc qokquo.
sg!cNqrcju..vb.cqobcabgpcrsgncxqu!cSg’pcoqgcqocgnfgcf  quogcgnfgcS
fjcoqgcaqsoatcScfjcoqgcaqsoacqocieso sivb,coqgcgqcgfwbcifegcsocgnb
ebyqvgsoac qoybogsqocqkcjbjqesfvc.soobep,cgnfg’pcrnx!cGnquan,cqkc quepb,
qobcjsangcaqcgqcvfuancfgcsgttttcScfjcpqeexcgnbebcrqo’gchbcfoxciesbpgpcfg
sgtcScpnquv.c begfsovxcaqcskcgnbebcrbebt”

“Gnbocxqucrquv.cpsgc.qrocfgcfoqgnbecjfo’pcgfhvbcfo.csopuvgcsgcfo.cgnqpb
rnqcsoysgb.cxqutcBn?”

“ begfsovxcoqgcsopuvg,chugcieqgbpgtcScpnquv.c.qcsgcrsgncfcaqq.cqhmb gtcS
jsangcso.seb gvxcfppspgcgnbc fupbcqkcbovsangbojbogcfo.cieqifafo.ftcSg’p
fc.ugxcqkcbybexcjfocgqcrqewckqecbovsangbojbogcfo.cieqifafo.fcfo.cgnb
jqebcnfepnvx,cibenfip,cgnbchbggbetcScjsangc.eqicfcpbb.,cfocs.bfttttcFo.
pqjbgnsoacjsangcaeqrcuickeqjcgnfgcpbb.tcNqrcpnquv.cSchbcsopuvgsoacgnbj?
Gnbxcjsangchbcqkkbo.b.cfgcksepg,chugcfkgberfe.pcgnbx’.cpbbcS’.c.qobcgnbj
fcpbeys btcXqucwoqr,cGbebhxbyfc(rnqcspcsocgnbc qjjuosgxcoqr)crfpchvfjb.
hb fupbcrnbocpnbcvbkgcnbeckfjsvxcfo.tttc.byqgb.tttcnbepbvk,cpnbcreqgbcgq
nbeckfgnbecfo.cjqgnbecgnfgcpnbcrquv.o’gcaqcqocvsysoac qoybogsqofvvxcfo.
rfpcbogbesoacqocfckebbcjfeesfabcfo.csgcrfpcpfs.cgnfgcgnfgcrfpcgqqcnfepn,
gnfgcpnbcjsangcnfybcpifeb.cgnbjcfo.cnfybcresggbocjqebcwso.vxtcScgnsow
gnfg’pcfvvcoqopbopbcfo.cgnbeb’pcoqcobb.cqkcpqkgobpp;cqocgnbc qogefex,
rnfg’pcrfogb.cspcieqgbpgtcYfebogpcnf.chbbocjfeesb.cpbybocxbfep,cpnb
fhfo.qob.cnbecgrqc nsv.ebo,cpnbcgqv.cnbecnuphfo.cpgefsangcqugcsocf
vbggbe:c‘Scnfybcebfvspb.cgnfgcSc fooqgchbcnfiixcrsgncxqutcSc focobybe
kqeasybcxqucgnfgcxqucnfybc.b bsyb.cjbchxc qo bfvsoackeqjcjbcgnfgcgnbeb
spcfoqgnbecqeafospfgsqocqkcpq sbgxchxcjbfopcqkcgnbc qjjuosgsbptcScnfyb
qovxcvfgbvxcvbfeob.csgckeqjcfcaebfg-nbfegb.cjfocgqcrnqjcScnfybcasybo
jxpbvkcfo.crsgncrnqjcScfjcbpgfhvspnsoacfc qjjuosgxtcScpibfwcivfsovx
hb fupbcSc qops.becsgc.spnqobpgcgqc.b bsybcxqutc.qcfpcxqucgnsowchbpgt
.qcoqgcnqibcgqcabgcjbchf w,cxqucfebcgqqcvfgbtcScnqibcxqucrsvvchbcnfiixt’
Gnfg’pcnqrcvbggbepcvswbcgnfgcquangcgqchbcresggbo!”

“SpcgnfgcGbebhxbyfcgnbcqobcxqucpfs.cnf.cjf.bcfcgnse.ckebbcjfeesfab?”

“Oq,csg’pcqovxcgnbcpb qo.,cebfvvx!cHugcrnfgcskcsgcrbebcgnbckquegn,crnfg
skcsgcrbebcgnbckskgbbogn,cgnfg’pcfvvcoqopbopb!cFo.cskcbybecScebaebggb.
gnbc.bfgncqkcjxckfgnbecfo.cjqgnbe,csgcspcoqr,cfo.cScpqjbgsjbpcgnsow
skcjxcifebogpcrbebcvsysoacrnfgcfcieqgbpgcScrquv.cnfybcfsjb.cfgcgnbj!cS
rquv.cnfybc.qobcpqjbgnsoacqociueiqpbtttcScrquv.cnfybcpnqrocgnbj!cScrquv.
nfybcfpgqospnb.cgnbj!cScfjcebfvvxcpqeexcgnbebcspcoqcqob!”

“Gqcpueiespb!cNb-nb!cRbvv,chbcgnfgcfpcxqucrsvv,”cIxqgecIbgeqysg n
sogbeeuigb.,c“hugcgbvvcjbcgnsp;c.qcxqucwoqrcgnbc.bf.cjfo’pc.fuangbe,cgnb
.bvs fgb-vqqwsoacvsggvbcgnsoa?cSg’pcgeubcrnfgcgnbxcpfxcfhqugcnbe,cspo’g
sg?”

“Rnfgcqkcsg?cScgnsow,cgnfgcsp,csgcspcjxcqrocibepqofvc qoys gsqocgnfg
gnspcspcgnbcoqejfvc qo.sgsqocqkcrqjbotcRnxcoqg?cScjbfo,c_.spgsoauqop_t
Socqueciebpbogcpq sbgxcsgcspcoqgcfvgqabgnbecoqejfv,chb fupbcsgcsp
 qjiuvpqex,chugcsocgnbckuguebcpq sbgxcsgcrsvvchbcibekb gvxcoqejfv,
hb fupbcsgcrsvvchbcyqvuogfextcBybocfpcsgcsp,cpnbcrfpclusgbcesang:cpnb
rfpcpukkbesoacfo.cgnfgcrfpcnbecfppbg,cpqcgqcpibfw,cnbec fisgfvcrns n
pnbcnf.cfcibekb gcesangcgqc.spiqpbcqktcQkc quepb,csocgnbckugueb
pq sbgxcgnbebcrsvvchbcoqcobb.cqkcfppbgp,chugcnbecifegcrsvvcnfybcfoqgnbe
psaosks fo b,cefgsqofvcfo.csocnfejqoxcrsgncnbecboyseqojbogtcFpcgqcPqkxf
Pbjxqoqyofcibepqofvvx,cScebafe.cnbecf gsqocfpcfcysaqequpcieqgbpgcfafsopg
gnbcqeafospfgsqocqkcpq sbgx,cfo.cScebpib gcnbec.bbivxckqecsg;cScebmqs b
so.bb.crnbocScvqqwcfgcnbe!”

“Scrfpcgqv.cgnfgcxqucaqgcnbecgueob.cqugcqkcgnbpbcvq.asoapt”

Vbhbzsfgoswqycrfpcboefab.t

“Gnfg’pcfoqgnbecpvfo.be,”cnbcxbvvb.tc“Sgcrfpcoqgcpqcfgcfvv!cGnfgcrfpcfvv
WfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pcsoybogsqo,ckqecpnbc.s.coqgcuo.bepgfo.!cFo.cScobybe
jf.bcvqybcgqcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof!cScrfpcpsjivxc.bybvqisoacnbe,cbogsebvx
.spsogbebpgb.vx,cgexsoacgqcequpbcnbecgqcieqgbpgttttcFvvcScrfogb.crfpcnbe
ieqgbpgcfo.cPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofc quv.coqgcnfybcebjfsob.cnbebcfoxrfx!”

“Nfybcxqucfpwb.cnbecgqcmqsocxquec qjjuosgx?”

“Xqucwbbicqocvfuansoacfo.cybexcsofiieqiesfgbvx,cfvvqrcjbcgqcgbvv
xqutcXquc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.!cGnbebcspcoqcpu nceôvbcsocfc qjjuosgxtcGnb
 qjjuosgxcspcbpgfhvspnb.cgnfgcgnbebcpnquv.chbcoqcpu nceôvbptcSocf
 qjjuosgx,cpu ncfceôvbcspcbppbogsfvvxcgefopkqejb.cfo.crnfgcspcpguis.
nbebcspcpbopshvbcgnbeb,crnfg,cuo.beciebpbogc qo.sgsqop,cspcuoofguefv
hb qjbpcibekb gvxcofguefvcsocgnbc qjjuosgxtcSgcfvvc.bibo.pcqocgnb
boyseqojbogtcSg’pcfvvcgnbcboyseqojbogcfo.cjfocnsjpbvkcspcoqgnsoatcFo.
Scfjcqocaqq.cgbejpcrsgncPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcgqcgnspc.fx,crns ncspcfcieqqk
gnfgcpnbcobybecebafe.b.cjbcfpcnfysoacreqoab.cnbetcScfjcgexsoacoqrcgq
fggef gcnbecgqcgnbc qjjuosgx,chugcqoclusgb,clusgbcfc.skkbebogckqqgsoat
Rnfgcfebcxqucvfuansoacfg?cRbcfebcgexsoacgqcbpgfhvspncfc qjjuosgxcqk
quecqro,cfcpib sfvcqob,cqocfcheqf.bechfpsptcRbcnfybcaqobckuegnbecsocque
 qoys gsqoptcRbcebmb gcjqeb!cFo.cjbfornsvbcS’jcpgsvvc.bybvqisoacPqkxf
PbjxqoqyoftcPnbcnfpcfchbfugskuv,chbfugskuvc nfef gbe!”

“Fo.cxqucgfwbcf.yfogfabcqkcnbecksobc nfef gbe,cbn?cNb-nb!”

“Oq,coq!cQn,coq!cQocgnbc qogefext”

“Qn,cqocgnbc qogefex!cNb-nb-nb!cFclubbecgnsoacgqcpfx!”

“Hbvsbybcjb!cRnxcpnquv.cSc.spauspbcsg?cSockf g,cSckbbvcsgcpgefoabcjxpbvk
nqrcgsjs.,c nfpgbcfo.cjq.beocpnbcspcrsgncjb!”

“Fo.cxqu,cqkc quepb,cfebc.bybvqisoacnbetttcnb-nb!cgexsoacgqcieqybcgqcnbe
gnfgcfvvcgnfgcjq.bpgxcspcoqopbopb?”

“Oqgcfgcfvv,coqgcfgcfvv!cNqrc qfepbvx,cnqrcpguis.vx--bd upbcjbcpfxsoa
pq--xqucjspuo.bepgfo.cgnbcrqe.c.bybvqijbog!cAqq.cnbfybop,cnqrtttc eu.b
xqucpgsvvcfeb!cRbcfebcpgesysoackqecgnbckebb.qjcqkcrqjbocfo.cxqucnfyb
qovxcqobcs.bfcsocxquecnbf.ttttcPbggsoacfps.bcgnbcabobefvclubpgsqo
qkc nfpgsgxcfo.ckbjsosobcjq.bpgxcfpcupbvbppcsocgnbjpbvybpcfo.cso.bb.
iebmu.s bp,cSckuvvxcf  bigcnbec nfpgsgxcrsgncjb,chb fupbcgnfg’pckqecnbe
gqc.b s.btcQkc quepbcskcpnbcrbebcgqcgbvvcjbcnbepbvkcgnfgcpnbcrfogb.cjb,
Scpnquv.cgnsowcjxpbvkcybexcvu wx,chb fupbcScvswbcgnbcasevcybexcju n;chug
fpcsgcsp,coqcqobcnfpcbybecgebfgb.cnbecjqebc quegbqupvxcgnfocS,crsgncjqeb
ebpib gckqecnbec.saosgxtttcScrfsgcsocnqibp,cgnfg’pcfvv!”

“Xqucnf.cju nchbggbecjfwbcnbecfciebpbogcqkcpqjbgnsoatcSchbgcxqucobybe
gnquangcqkcgnfgt”

“Xquc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.,cfpcS’ybcgqv.cxqucfvebf.x!cQkc quepb,cpnbcspcso
pu ncfciqpsgsqo,chugcsg’pcfoqgnbeclubpgsqotcLusgbcfoqgnbeclubpgsqo!
Xqucpsjivxc.bpispbcnbetcPbbsoacfckf gcrns ncxqucjspgfwbovxc qops.be
.bpbeysoacqkc qogbjig,cxqucebkupbcgqcgfwbcfcnujfobcysbrcqkcfckbvvqr
 ebfguebtcXquc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcfc nfef gbecpnbcsp!cScfjcqovxcpqeexcgnfg
qkcvfgbcpnbcnfpclusgbcasybocuicebf.soacfo.chqeeqrsoachqqwptcScupb.
gqcvbo.cgnbjcgqcnbetcScfjcpqeex,cgqq,cgnfgcrsgncfvvcgnbcbobeaxcfo.
ebpqvugsqocsocieqgbpgsoa--rns ncpnbcnfpcfvebf.xcpnqrocqo b--pnbcnfp
vsggvbcpbvk-ebvsfo b,cvsggvb,cpqcgqcpfx,cso.bibo.bo b,cpqcfpcgq
hebfwckebbckeqjc begfsociebmu.s bpcfo.c begfsockqqvspncs.bfptcXbgcpnb
gnqequanvxcuo.bepgfo.pcpqjbclubpgsqop,ckqecsopgfo bcfhqugcwsppsoacqk
nfo.p,cgnfgcsp,cgnfgcsg’pcfocsopuvgcgqcfcrqjfockqecfcjfocgqcwsppcnbe
nfo.,chb fupbcsg’pcfcpsaocqkcsoblufvsgxtcRbcnf.cfc.bhfgbcfhqugcsgcfo.
Sc.bp eshb.csgcgqcnbetcPnbcvspgbob.cfggbogsybvxcgqcfocf  quogcqkcgnb
rqewjbo’pcfppq sfgsqopcsocKefo b,cgqqtcOqrcScfjcbdivfsosoacgnbclubpgsqo
qkc qjsoacsogqcgnbceqqjcsocgnbckuguebcpq sbgxt”

“Fo.crnfg’pcgnfg,ciefx?”

“Rbcnf.cfc.bhfgbcvfgbvxcqocgnbclubpgsqo:cNfpcfcjbjhbecqkcgnbc qjjuosgx
gnbcesangcgqcbogbecfoqgnbecjbjhbe’pceqqj,crnbgnbecjfocqecrqjfo,cfgcfox
gsjbtttcfo.crbc.b s.b.cgnfgcnbcnfp!”

“Sgcjsangchbcfgcfocso qoybosbogcjqjbog,cnb-nb!”

Vbhbzsfgoswqycrfpcebfvvxcfoaext

“Xqucfebcfvrfxpcgnsowsoacqkcpqjbgnsoacuoivbfpfog,”cnbc esb.crsgn
fybepsqotc“Gkqq!cNqrcybdb.cScfjcgnfgcrnbocScrfpcbdiquo.soacquecpxpgbj,cS
ebkbeeb.ciebjfguebvxcgqcgnbclubpgsqocqkcibepqofvciesyf x!cSg’pcfvrfxp
fcpgujhvsoa-hvq wcgqcibqivbcvswbcxqu,cgnbxcgueocsgcsogqces.s uvbchbkqeb
gnbxcuo.bepgfo.csgtcFo.cnqrciequ.cgnbxcfebcqkcsg,cgqq!cGkqq!cS’ybcqkgbo
jfsogfsob.cgnfgcgnfgclubpgsqocpnquv.coqgchbcfiieqf nb.chxcfcoqys bcgsvv
nbcnfpcfcksejckfsgncsocgnbcpxpgbjtcFo.cgbvvcjb,civbfpb,crnfgc.qcxqu
kso.cpqcpnfjbkuvcbybocsoc bppiqqvp?cScpnquv.chbcgnbcksepgcgqchbcebf.x
gqc vbfocqugcfoxc bppiqqvcxqucvswbtcFo.csg’pcoqgcfclubpgsqocqk
pbvk-pf esks b,csg’pcpsjivxcrqew,cnqoquefhvb,cupbkuvcrqewcrns ncsp
fpcaqq.cfpcfoxcqgnbecfo.cju nchbggbecgnfocgnbcrqewcqkcfcEfinfbvcfo.cf
Iupnwso,chb fupbcsgcspcjqebcupbkuvt”

“Fo.cjqebcnqoquefhvb,cjqebcnqoquefhvb,cnb-nb-nb!”

“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfochxc‘jqebcnqoquefhvb’?cSc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.cpu n
bdiebppsqopcgqc.bp eshbcnujfocf gsysgxtc‘Jqebcnqoquefhvb,’c‘oqhvbe’--fvv
gnqpbcfebcqv.-kfpnsqob.ciebmu.s bpcrns ncScebmb gtcBybexgnsoacrns ncsp
_qkcupb_cgqcjfowso.cspcnqoquefhvbtcScqovxcuo.bepgfo.cqobcrqe.:c_upbkuv_!
Xquc focposaabecfpcju ncfpcxqucvswb,chugcgnfg’pcpq!”

IxqgecIbgeqysg ncvfuanb.cnbfegsvxtcNbcnf.cksospnb.c quogsoacgnbcjqobx
fo.crfpciuggsoacsgcfrfxtcHugcpqjbcqkcgnbcoqgbpcnbcvbkgcqocgnbcgfhvbtcGnb
“ bppiqqvclubpgsqo”cnf.cfvebf.xchbbocfcpuhmb gcqkc.spiugbchbgrbbocgnbjt
Rnfgcrfpcfhpue.crfpcgnfgcsgcjf.bcVbhbzsfgoswqycebfvvxcfoaex,crnsvbcsg
fjupb.cVuznsocfo.cfgcgnfgcjqjbogcnbcifegs uvfevxcrfogb.cgqcfoabecnsp
xquoackesbo.t

“Sg’pcxquecsvv-vu wcxbpgbe.fxcgnfgcjfwbpcxqucpqcsvv-nujqueb.cfo.
fooqxsoa,”chvuegb.cqugcVbhbzsfgoswqy,crnqcsocpisgbcqkcnspc“so.bibo.bo b”
cfo.cnspc“ieqgbpgp”c.s.coqgcyboguebcgqcqiiqpbcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncfo.cpgsvv
hbnfyb.cgqcnsjcrsgncpqjbcqkcgnbcebpib gcnfhsgufvcsocbfevsbecxbfept

“Xqu’.chbggbecgbvvcjbcgnsp,”cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncsogbeeuigb.crsgncnfuangx
.spivbfpueb,c“ focxqutttcqecefgnbecfebcxqucebfvvxckesbo.vxcboquancrsgn
gnfgcxquoacibepqocgqcfpwcnbecgqcpgbicsocnbebckqecfcjsougb?cScgnsow
gnbx’ybcfvvc qjbchf wckeqjcgnbc bjbgbextttcScnbfe.cgnbcpquo.cqk
pgbiptttcScrfogcgqcpbbcnbe,cgnfgcxquoacibepqot”

“Rnfgckqe?”cVbhbzsfgoswqycfpwb.crsgncpueiespbt

“Qn,cScrfogcgqtcScfjcvbfysoacnbebcgq-.fxcqecgq-jqeeqrcfo.cgnbebkqebcS
rfogb.cgqcpibfwcgqcnbecfhqugtttcNqrbybe,cxqucjfxchbciebpbogc.uesoacgnb
sogbeysbrtcSg’pchbggbecxqucpnquv.chb,cso.bb.tcKqecgnbeb’pcoqcwoqrsoa
rnfgcxqucjsangcsjfasobt”

“Scpnfo’gcsjfasobcfoxgnsoatcScqovxcfpwb.cfo.,cskcxqu’ybcfoxgnsoacgqcpfx
gqcnbe,coqgnsoacspcbfpsbecgnfocgqc fvvcnbecsotcS’vvcaqc.seb gvxcfo.cxqu
jfxchbcpuebcScrqo’gchbcsocxquecrfxt”

KsybcjsougbpcvfgbecVbhbzsfgoswqyc fjbcsocrsgncPqosftcPnbc fjbcsocybex
ju ncpueiespb.cfo.cqybe qjbcrsgncpnxobppcfpcupufvtcPnbcrfpcfvrfxpcpnxcso
pu nc se ujpgfo bpcfo.crfpcfvrfxpcfkefs.cqkcobrcibqivb,cpnbcnf.chbbocfp
fc nsv.cfo.crfpcbybocjqebcpqcoqrttttcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncjbgcnbec“iqvsgbvx
fo.cfkkfhvx,”chugcrsgncfc begfsocpnf.bcqkchfogbesoackfjsvsfesgxcrns ncso
nspcqisosqocrfpcpusgfhvbckqecfcjfocqkcnspcebpib gfhsvsgxcfo.crbsang
soc.bfvsoacrsgncfc ebfguebcpqcxquoacfo.cpqc_sogbebpgsoa_cfpcpnbtcNb
nfpgbob.cgqc“ebfppueb”cnbecfo.cjf.bcnbecpsgc.qrockf soacnsjcfgcgnb
gfhvbtcPqosfcpfgc.qro,cvqqwb.cfhqugcnbe--fgcVbhbzsfgoswqy,cfgcgnbcoqgbp
vxsoacqocgnbcgfhvbcfo.cgnbocfafsocfgcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncfo.cnbecbxbp
ebjfsob.cesybgb.cqocnsjtcVbhbzsfgoswqycrfpcjqysoacgqcgnbc.qqetcIxqge
Ibgeqysg ncpsaob.cgqcPqosfcgqcebjfsocpbfgb.cfo.cpgqiib.cVbhbzsfgoswqyt

“SpcEfpwqvoswqycsocgnbeb?cNfpcnbc qjb?”cnbcfpwb.cnsjcsocfcrnspibet

“Efpwqvoswqy?cXbptcRnx?cXbp,cnbcspcgnbebtcScpfrcnsjcmupgc qjbcsotttt
Rnx?”

“Rbvv,cScifegs uvfevxchbacxqucgqcebjfsocnbebcrsgncupcfo.coqgcgqcvbfyb
jbcfvqobcrsgncgnsptttcxquoacrqjfotcScqovxcrfogcfckbrcrqe.pcrsgncnbe,
hugcAq.cwoqrpcrnfgcgnbxcjfxcjfwbcqkcsgtcScpnquv.o’gcvswbcEfpwqvoswqycgq
ebibfgcfoxgnsoattttcXqucuo.bepgfo.crnfgcScjbfo?”

“Scuo.bepgfo.!”cVbhbzsfgoswqycpfrcgnbciqsogtc“Xbp,cxqucfebcesangttttcQk
 quepb,cScfjc qoyso b.cibepqofvvxcgnfgcxqucnfybcoqcebfpqocgqchbcuobfpx,
hugtttcpgsvv,cxqucfebcesangtc begfsovxcS’vvcpgfxtcS’vvcpgfo.cnbebcfgcgnb
rso.qrcfo.coqgchbcsocxquecrfxtttcScgnsowcxqucfebcesangttt”

IxqgecIbgeqysg ncebgueob.cgqcgnbcpqkf,cpfgc.qrocqiiqpsgbcPqosf,cvqqwb.
fggbogsybvxcfgcnbecfo.cfppujb.cfocbdgebjbvxc.saosksb.,cbybocpbybeb
bdiebppsqo,cfpcju ncfpcgqcpfx,c“.qo’gcxqucjfwbcfoxcjspgfwb,cjf.fjt”
cPqosfcrfpcqybernbvjb.crsgncbjhfeefppjbogt

“Socgnbcksepgcivf b,cPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,crsvvcxqucjfwbcjxcbd upbpcgqcxque
ebpib gb.cjfjjfttttcGnfg’pcesang,cspo’gcsg?cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcpgfo.p
socgnbcivf bcqkcfcjqgnbecgqcxqu?”cIxqgecIbgeqysg nchbafocrsgncaebfg
.saosgx,cgnquancfkkfhvxt

Sgcrfpcbys.bogcgnfgcnspcsogbogsqopcrbebckesbo.vxt

“Lusgbcpq,cxbp;cgnbcivf bcqkcfcjqgnbe,”cPqosfcfoprbeb.,cgsjs.vxcfo.
nueesb.vxt

“Gnbocrsvvcxqucjfwbcjxcfiqvqasbpcgqcnbe?cGnequancsobysgfhvb
 se ujpgfo bpcScfjckqe b.cgqchbcfhpbogcfo.cpnfvvcoqgchbcfgcgnbc.soobecso
pisgbcqkcxquecjfjjf’pcwso.csoysgfgsqot”

“XbptttcS’vvcgbvvcnbetttcfgcqo bt”

Fo.cPqosfcnfpgsvxcmujib.cuickeqjcnbecpbfgt

“Rfsg,cgnfg’pcoqgcfvv,”cIxqgecIbgeqysg nc.bgfsob.cnbe,cpjsvsoacfgcnbe
psjivs sgxcfo.csaoqefo bcqkcaqq.cjfoobep,c“fo.cxqucwoqrcjbcvsggvb,cjx
.bfecPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cskcxqucpuiiqpbcScrquv.cnfybcybogueb.cgqcgequhvb
fcibepqocvswbcxquckqecfcjfggbecqkcpqcvsggvbc qopblubo bcfkkb gsoacjxpbvk
qovxtcScnfybcfoqgnbecqhmb gt”

Pqosfcpfgc.qrocnueesb.vxtcNbecbxbpcebpgb.cfafsockqecfocsopgfogcqocgnb
aebx-fo.-efsohqr- qvqueb.coqgbpcgnfgcebjfsob.cqocgnbcgfhvb,chugcpnb
lus wvxcvqqwb.cfrfxcfo.cksdb.cnbecbxbpcqocIxqgecIbgeqysg ntcPnbckbvgcsg
nqeeshvxcso.b qequp,cbpib sfvvxckqec_nbe_,cgqcvqqwcfgcfoqgnbecibepqo’p
jqobxtcPnbcpgfeb.cfgcgnbcaqv.cbxb-avfppcrns ncIxqgecIbgeqysg ncnbv.
socnspcvbkgcnfo.cfo.cfgcgnbcjfppsybcfo.cbdgebjbvxcnfo.pqjbcesoacrsgncf
xbvvqrcpgqobcqocnspcjs..vbcksoabetcHugcpu..bovxcpnbcvqqwb.cfrfxcfo.,coqg
woqrsoacrnbebcgqcgueo,cbo.b.chxcpgfesoacIxqgecIbgeqysg ncfafsocpgefsang
socgnbckf btcFkgbecfcifupbcqkcpgsvvcaebfgbec.saosgxcnbc qogsoub.t

“Sc nfo b.cxbpgbe.fxcsocifppsoacgqcbd nfoabcfc quivbcqkcrqe.pcrsgn
WfgbesofcSyfoqyof,ciqqecrqjfotcGnfgcrfpcpukks sbogcgqcbofhvbcjbcgq
fp begfsocgnfgcpnbcspcsocfciqpsgsqo--iebgbeofguefv,cskcqobcjfxcpq
bdiebppcsgt”

“Xbptttciebgbeofguefvttt”cPqosfcnueesb.vxcfppbogb.t

“Qecsgcrquv.chbcpsjivbecfo.cjqebc qjiebnbopshvbcgqcpfx,csvvt”

“Xbp,cpsjivbecfo.cjqebc qjiebnbotttcxbp,csvvt”

“LusgbcpqtcPqcgnbockeqjcfckbbvsoacqkcnujfosgxcfo.cpqcgqcpibfw
 qjifppsqo,cScpnquv.chbcavf.cgqchbcqkcpbeys bcgqcnbecsocfoxcrfx,
kqebpbbsoacnbecuokqeguofgbciqpsgsqotcSchbvsbybcgnbcrnqvbcqkcgnsp
iqybegx-pges wbockfjsvxc.bibo.pcoqrcbogsebvxcqocxqu?”

“Fvvqrcjbcgqcfpw,”cPqosfceqpbcgqcnbeckbbg,c“.s.cxqucpfxcpqjbgnsoacgqcnbe
xbpgbe.fxcqkcgnbciqppshsvsgxcqkcfcibopsqo?cHb fupbcpnbcgqv.cjbcxqucnf.
uo.begfwbocgqcabgcnbecqobtcRfpcgnfgcgeub?”

“Oqgcsocgnbcpvsangbpg,cfo.cso.bb.csg’pcfocfhpue.sgx!cScjbebvxcnsogb.cfg
nbecqhgfsosoacgbjiqefexcfppspgfo bcfpcgnbcrs.qrcqkcfocqkks sfvcrnqcnf.
.sb.csocgnbcpbeys b--skcqovxcpnbcnfpcifgeqofabtttchugcfiifebogvxcxque
vfgbcifebogcnf.coqgcpbeyb.cnspckuvvcgbejcfo.cnf.coqgcso.bb.chbbocsocgnb
pbeys bcfgcfvvcqkcvfgbtcSockf g,cskcgnbebc quv.chbcfoxcnqib,csgcrquv.chb
ybexcbinbjbefv,chb fupbcgnbebcrquv.chbcoqc vfsjckqecfppspgfo bcso
gnfgc fpb,ckfeckeqjcsgttttcFo.cpnbcspc.ebfjsoacqkcfcibopsqocfvebf.x,
nb-nb-nb!tttcFcaq-fnbf.cvf.x!”

“Xbp,cpnbcsptcKqecpnbcspc eb.uvqupcfo.caqq.-nbfegb.,cfo.cpnbchbvsbybp
bybexgnsoackeqjcgnbcaqq.obppcqkcnbecnbfegcfo.tttcfo.tttcfo.cpnbcspcvswb
gnfgtttcxbptttcXqucjupgcbd upbcnbe,”cpfs.cPqosf,cfo.cfafsocpnbcaqgcuicgq
aqt

“Hugcxqucnfybo’gcnbfe.crnfgcScnfybcgqcpfxt”

“Oq,cScnfybo’gcnbfe.,”cjuggbeb.cPqosft

“Gnbocpsgc.qrot”cPnbcrfpcgbeeshvxc qokupb.;cpnbcpfgc.qrocfafsocfcgnse.
gsjbt

“Pbbsoacnbeciqpsgsqocrsgncnbecuokqeguofgbcvsggvbcqobp,cScpnquv.chbcavf.,
fpcScnfybcpfs.chbkqeb,cpqckfecfpcvsbpcsocjxciqrbe,cgqchbcqkcpbeys b,
gnfgcsp,cpqckfecfpcspcsocjxciqrbe,coqgcjqebtcQobcjsangckqecsopgfo bcabg
uicfcpuhp esigsqockqecnbe,cqecfcvqggbex,cpqjbgnsoacqkcgnbcpqeg,cpu ncfp
spcfvrfxpcfeefoab.csocpu nc fpbpchxckesbo.pcqecbybocqugps.bepc.bpsequp
qkcfppspgsoacibqivbtcSgcrfpcqkcgnfgcScsogbo.b.cgqcpibfwcgqcxqu;csgcjsang
hbc.qobt”

“Xbp,cxbptttcAq.crsvvcebifxcxquckqecsg,”ckfvgbeb.cPqosf,cafzsoacsogbogvx
fgcIxqgecIbgeqysg nt

“Sgcjsangchb,chugcrbcrsvvcgfvwcqkcsgcvfgbetcRbcjsangchbasocsgcgq-.fx,crb
rsvvcgfvwcsgcqybecgnspcbybosoacfo.cvfxcgnbckquo.fgsqocpqcgqcpibfwtc qjb
gqcjbcfgcpbybocq’ vq wtcJetcVbhbzsfgoswqy,cScnqib,crsvvcfppspgcuptcHug
gnbebcspcqobc se ujpgfo bcqkcrns ncScquangcgqcrfeocxquchbkqebnfo.cfo.
kqecrns ncScyboguebcgqcgequhvbcxqu,cPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cgqc qjbcnbebtcSo
jxcqisosqocjqobxc fooqgchb,cso.bb.csg’pcuopfkbcgqciugcsgcsogqcWfgbesof
Syfoqyof’pcqrocnfo.ptcGnbc.soobecgq-.fxcspcfcieqqkcqkcgnfgtcGnquancpnb
nfpcoqg,cpqcgqcpibfw,cfc eupgcqkchebf.ckqecgq-jqeeqrcfo.tttcrbvv,chqqgp
qecpnqbp,cqecfoxgnsoa;cpnbcnfpchquangcgq-.fxcMfjfs fceuj,cfo.cbybo,
Schbvsbyb,cJf.bsefcfo.tttcfo.c qkkbbtcScpfrcsgcfpcScifppb.cgnequant
Gq-jqeeqrcsgcrsvvcfvvckfvvcuiqocxqucfafso,cgnbxcrqo’gcnfybcfc eupgcqk
hebf.tcSg’pcfhpue.,cebfvvx,cfo.cpq,cgqcjxcgnsowsoa,cfcpuhp esigsqocquang
gqchbcefspb.cpqcgnfgcgnbcuonfiixcrs.qrcpnquv.coqgcwoqrcqkcgnbcjqobx,chug
qovxcxqu,ckqecsopgfo btcFjcScesang?”

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrtttcgnspcspcqovxcgq-.fx,cqo bcsocnbecvskbttttcPnbcrfp
pqcfodsqupcgqc.qcnqoque,cgqc bvbhefgbcgnbcjbjqexttttcFo.cpnbcspcybex
pbopshvbtttchugcmupgcfpcxqucgnsowcfo.cScpnfvvchbcybex,cybextttcgnbxcrsvv
fvvchbtttcfo.cAq.crsvvcebrfe.tttcfo.cgnbcqeinfopttt”

Pqosfchuepgcsogqcgbfept

“Ybexcrbvv,cgnbo,cwbbicsgcsocjso.;cfo.coqrcrsvvcxqucf  bigckqecgnb
hbobksgcqkcxquecebvfgsqocgnbcpjfvvcpujcgnfgcScfjcfhvbcgqcpifeb,ckeqjcjb
ibepqofvvxtcScfjcybexcfodsqupcgnfgcjxcofjbcpnquv.coqgchbcjbogsqob.cso
 qoob gsqocrsgncsgtcNbebtttcnfysoacpqcgqcpibfwcfodsbgsbpcqkcjxcqro,cS
 fooqgc.qcjqebttt”

Fo.cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncnbv.cqugcgqcPqosfcfcgbo-equhvbcoqgbc febkuvvx
uokqv.b.tcPqosfcgqqwcsg,ckvupnb.c esjpqo,cmujib.cui,cjuggbeb.cpqjbgnsoa
fo.chbafocgfwsoacvbfybtcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncf  qjifosb.cnbec bebjqosqupvx
gqcgnbc.qqetcPnbcaqgcqugcqkcgnbceqqjcfgcvfpg,cfasgfgb.cfo.c.spgebppb.,
fo.cebgueob.cgqcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cqybernbvjb.crsgnc qokupsqot

FvvcgnspcgsjbcVbhbzsfgoswqycnf.cpgqq.cfgcgnbcrso.qrcqecrfvwb.cfhqugcgnb
eqqj,cfodsqupcoqgcgqcsogbeeuigcgnbc qoybepfgsqo;crnbocPqosfcnf.caqobcnb
rfvwb.cuicgqcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncfo.cpqvbjovxcnbv.cqugcnspcnfo.t

“Scnbfe.cfo.c_pfr_cbybexgnsoa,”cnbcpfs.,cvfxsoacpgebppcqocgnbcvfpgcybeht
“Gnfgcspcnqoquefhvb,cScjbfocgqcpfx,csg’pcnujfob!cXqucrfogb.cgqcfyqs.
aefgsgu.b,cScpfr!cFo.cfvgnquancSc fooqg,cSc qokbpp,csocieso sivb
pxjifgnspbcrsgnciesyfgbc nfesgx,ckqecsgcoqgcqovxckfsvpcgqcbef.s fgbcgnb
bysvchugcbybocieqjqgbpcsg,cxbgcScjupgcf.jsgcgnfgcScpfrcxquecf gsqocrsgn
ivbfpueb--xbp,cxbp,cScvswbcsgt”

“Gnfg’pcfvvcoqopbopb,”cjuggbeb.cIxqgecIbgeqysg n,cpqjbrnfgc.sp qo begb.,
vqqwsoac febkuvvxcfgcVbhbzsfgoswqyt

“Oq,csg’pcoqgcoqopbopb!cFcjfocrnqcnfpcpukkbeb.c.spgebppcfo.cfooqxfo bcfp
xquc.s.cxbpgbe.fxcfo.crnqcxbgc focpxjifgnspbcrsgncgnbcjspbexcqkcqgnbep,
pu ncfcjfotttcbybocgnquancnbcspcjfwsoacfcpq sfvcjspgfwb--spcpgsvv
.bpbeysoacqkcebpib g!cSc.s.coqgcbdib gcsgcso.bb.cqkcxqu,cIxqge
Ibgeqysg n,cbpib sfvvxcfpcf  qe.soacgqcxquecs.bfptttcqn,crnfgcfc.efrhf w
xquecs.bfpcfebcgqcxqu!cNqrc.spgebppb.cxqucfebckqecsopgfo bchxcxque
svv-vu wcxbpgbe.fx,”c esb.cgnbcpsjivb-nbfegb.cVbhbzsfgoswqy,crnqckbvg
fcebgueocqkcfkkb gsqockqecIxqgecIbgeqysg ntc“Fo.,crnfgc.qcxqucrfogcrsgn
jfeesfab,crsgnc_vbafv_cjfeesfab,cjxc.bfe,coqhvbcIxqgecIbgeqysg n?cRnxc.q
xquc vsoacgqcgnspc_vbafvsgx_cqkcjfeesfab?cRbvv,cxqucjfxchbfgcjbcskcxqu
vswb,chugcScfjcavf.,ciqpsgsybvxcavf.csgcnfpo’gc qjbcqkk,cgnfgcxqucfeb
kebb,cgnfgcxqucfebcoqgclusgbcvqpgckqecnujfosgxttttcxqucpbb,cS’ybcpiqwbo
jxcjso.!”

“Hb fupbcSc.qo’gcrfogcsocxqueckebbcjfeesfabcgqchbcjf.bcfckqqvcqkcfo.
gqchesoacuicfoqgnbecjfo’pc nsv.ebo,cgnfg’pcrnxcScrfogcvbafvcjfeesfab,”
cVuznsocebivsb.csocqe.becgqcjfwbcpqjbcfoprbet

Nbcpbbjb.ciebq  uisb.chxcpqjbgnsoat

“ nsv.ebo?cXqucebkbeeb.cgqc nsv.ebo,”cVbhbzsfgoswqycpgfegb.cqkkcvswb
fcrfenqepbcfgcgnbcgeujibgc fvvtc“ nsv.ebocfebcfcpq sfvclubpgsqocfo.cf
lubpgsqocqkcksepgcsjiqegfo b,cScfaebb;chugcgnbclubpgsqocqkc nsv.ebocnfp
foqgnbecpqvugsqotcPqjbcebkupbcgqcnfybc nsv.ebocfvgqabgnbe,chb fupbcgnbx
puaabpgcgnbcsopgsgugsqocqkcgnbckfjsvxtcRb’vvcpibfwcqkc nsv.ebocvfgbe,
hugcoqrcfpcgqcgnbclubpgsqocqkcnqoque,cSc qokbppcgnfg’pcjxcrbfwciqsogt
Gnfgcnqees.,cjsvsgfex,cIupnwsocbdiebppsqocspcuognsowfhvbcsocgnb
.s gsqofexcqkcgnbckuguebtcRnfgc.qbpcsgcjbfocso.bb.?cSg’pcoqopbopb,
gnbebcrsvvchbcoqc.b bigsqocsocfckebbcjfeesfab!cGnfgcspcqovxcgnbcofguefv
 qopblubo bcqkcfcvbafvcjfeesfab,cpqcgqcpfx,csgpc qeeb gsyb,cfcieqgbpgt
Pqcgnfgcso.bb.csg’pcoqgcnujsvsfgsoatttcfo.cskcScbybe,cgqcpuiiqpbcfo
fhpue.sgx,crbebcgqchbcvbafvvxcjfeesb.,cScpnquv.chbciqpsgsybvxcavf.cqk
sgtcScpnquv.cpfxcgqcjxcrskb:c‘Jxc.bfe,cnsgnbegqcScnfybcvqyb.cxqu,coqr
Scebpib gcxqu,ckqecxqu’ybcpnqrocxquc focieqgbpg!’cXqucvfuan!cGnfg’p
hb fupbcxqucfebcso fifhvbcqkcabggsoacfrfxckeqjciebmu.s bptc qokquo.
sgcfvv!cScuo.bepgfo.coqrcrnbebcgnbcuoivbfpfogobppcspcqkchbsoac.b bsyb.
socfcvbafvcjfeesfab,chugcsg’pcpsjivxcfc.bpis fhvbc qopblubo bcqkcf
.bpis fhvbciqpsgsqocsocrns nchqgncfebcnujsvsfgb.tcRnbocgnbc.b bigsqocsp
qibo,cfpcsocfckebbcjfeesfab,cgnbocsgc.qbpcoqgcbdspg,csg’pcuognsowfhvbt
Xquecrskbcrsvvcqovxcieqybcnqrcpnbcebpib gpcxquchxc qops.besoacxqu
so fifhvbcqkcqiiqpsoacnbecnfiisobppcfo.cfyboasoacxquepbvkcqocnbeckqe
nbecobrcnuphfo.tc.fjocsgcfvv!cScpqjbgsjbpc.ebfjcskcScrbebcgqchbcjfeesb.,
ikqq!cScjbfocskcScrbebcgqcjfeex,cvbafvvxcqecoqg,csg’pcmupgcgnbcpfjb,
Scpnquv.ciebpbogcjxcrskbcrsgncfcvqybecskcpnbcnf.coqgckquo.cqobckqe
nbepbvktc‘Jxc.bfe,’cScpnquv.cpfx,c‘Scvqybcxqu,chugcbybocjqebcgnfocgnfgcS
.bpsebcxqucgqcebpib gcjbtcPbb!’cFjcScoqgcesang?”

IxqgecIbgeqysg ncposaabeb.cfpcnbcvspgbob.,chugcrsgnqugcju ncjbeesjbogt
Nbcnfe.vxcnbfe.csgcso.bb.tcNbcrfpciebq  uisb.crsgncpqjbgnsoacbvpbcfo.
bybocVbhbzsfgoswqycfgcvfpgcoqgs b.csgtcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncpbbjb.cbd sgb.
fo.ceuhhb.cnspcnfo.ptcVbhbzsfgoswqycebjbjhbeb.cfvvcgnspcfo.cebkvb gb.
uiqocsgcfkgberfe.pt



 NFIGBEcSS

Sgcrquv.chbc.skks uvgcgqcbdivfsocbdf gvxcrnfgc quv.cnfybcqesasofgb.cgnb
s.bfcqkcgnfgcpbopbvbppc.soobecsocWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pc.spqe.beb.chefsot
Obfevxcgbocqkcgnbcgrbogxcequhvbp,casybochxcEfpwqvoswqyckqecJfejbvf.qy’p
kuobefv,crbebcrfpgb.cuiqocsgtcIqppshvxcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofckbvgcqhvsab.cgq
nqoquecgnbcjbjqexcqkcgnbc.b bfpb.c“pusgfhvx,”cgnfgcfvvcgnbcvq.abep,
fo.cpgsvvcjqebcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof,cjsangcwoqrc“gnfgcnbcrfpcsocoqcrfxcgnbse
sokbesqe,cfo.cibenfipcybexcju ncgnbsecpuibesqe,”cfo.cgnfgcoqcqobcnf.cgnb
esangc“gqcgueocuicnspcoqpbcfgcnsjt”cIbenfipcgnbc nsbkcbvbjbogcrfpcgnfg
ib uvsfec“iqqecjfo’pcies.b,”crns nc qjibvpcjfoxciqqecibqivbcgqcpibo.
gnbsecvfpgcpfysoapcqocpqjbcgef.sgsqofvcpq sfvc bebjqox,cpsjivxcsocqe.be
gqc.qc“vswbcqgnbecibqivb,”cfo.coqgcgqc“hbcvqqwb.c.qrocuiqot”cSgcspcybex
ieqhfhvb,cgqq,cgnfgcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcvqoab.cqocgnspcq  fpsqo,cfg
gnbcjqjbogcrnbocpnbcpbbjb.cgqchbcfhfo.qob.chxcbybexqob,cgqcpnqrcgnqpb
“rebg nb.c qogbjigshvbcvq.abep”cgnfgcpnbcwobrc“nqrcgqc.qcgnsoap,cnqr
gqcbogbegfso”cfo.cgnfgcpnbcnf.chbbochequangcuic“socfcabogbbv,cpnbcjsang
fvjqpgcpfxcfespgq efgs c qvqobv’pckfjsvx”cfo.cnf.coqgchbbocjbfogckqe
prbbisoackvqqepcfo.crfpnsoacgnbc nsv.ebo’pcefapcfgcosangtcBybocgnb
iqqebpgcfo.cjqpgcheqwbo-pisesgb.cibqivbcfebcpqjbgsjbpcvsfhvbcgqcgnbpb
ifeqdxpjpcqkcies.bcfo.cyfosgxcrns ncgfwbcgnbckqejcqkcfocseebpspgshvb
obeyqupc efysoatcFo.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrfpcoqgcheqwbo-pisesgb.;cpnb
jsangcnfybchbbocwsvvb.chxc se ujpgfo b,chugcnbecpisesgc quv.coqgcnfyb
hbbocheqwbo,cgnfgcsp,cpnbc quv.coqgcnfybchbbocsogsjs.fgb.,cnbecrsvv
 quv.coqgchbc eupnb.tcJqebqybecPqosfcnf.cpfs.crsgncaqq.cebfpqocgnfgcnbe
jso.crfpcuonsoab.tcPnbc quv.coqgchbcpfs.cgqchbcsopfob,chugckqecfcxbfe
ifpgcpnbcnf.chbbocpqcnfefppb.cgnfgcnbecjso.cjsangcrbvvchbcqybepgefsob.t
Gnbcvfgbecpgfabpcqkc qopujigsqocfebcfig,c.q gqepcgbvvcup,cgqcfkkb gcgnb
sogbvvb gt

Gnbebcrfpcoqcaebfgcyfesbgxcqkcrsobp,coqecrfpcgnbebcJf.bsef;chugcrsob
gnbebcrfptcGnbebcrfpcyq.wf,ceujcfo.cVsphqocrsob,cfvvcqkcgnbciqqebpg
lufvsgxchugcsocpukks sbogclufogsgxtcHbps.bpcgnbcgef.sgsqofvces bcfo.
nqobx,cgnbebcrbebcgnebbcqeckquec.spnbp,cqobcqkcrns nc qopspgb.cqk
ifo fwbp,cfvvciebifeb.csocFjfvsfcSyfoqyof’pcwsg nbotcGrqcpfjqyfepcrbeb
hqsvsoa,cgnfgcgbfcfo.ciuo ncjsangchbcqkkbeb.cfkgbec.soobetcWfgbesof
Syfoqyofcnf.cnbepbvkcpbbocgqciue nfpsoacgnbcieqyspsqop,crsgncgnbcnbvi
qkcqobcqkcgnbcvq.abep,cfocuokqeguofgbcvsggvbcIqvbcrnqcnf.cpqjbnqrchbbo
pgefo.b.cfgcJf.fjbcVsiibyb npbv’ptcNbcieqjigvxciugcnsjpbvkcfgcWfgbesof
Syfoqyof’pc.spiqpfvcfo.cnf.chbbocfvvcgnfgcjqeosoacfo.cfvvcgnbc.fxchbkqeb
euoosoacfhqugcfpckfpgcfpcnspcvbapc quv.c feexcnsj,cfo.cybexcfodsqup
gnfgcbybexqobcpnquv.chbcfrfebcqkcsgtcKqecbybexcgeskvbcnbcefocgqcWfgbesof
Syfoqyof,cbybocnuogsoacnbecqugcfgcgnbchfzffe,cfgcbybexcsopgfogc fvvb.
nbec“_Ifos_t”cPnbcrfpcnbfegsvxcps wcqkcnsjchbkqebcgnbcbo.,cgnquan
pnbcnf.c.b vfeb.cfgcksepgcgnfgcpnbc quv.coqgcnfybcaqgcqocrsgnqugcgnsp
“pbeys bfhvbcfo.cjfaofosjqupcjfot”cSgcrfpcqobcqkcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’p
 nfef gbespgs pcgqcifsogcbybexqobcpnbcjbgcsocgnbcjqpgcavqrsoac qvquept
Nbeciefspbpcrbebcpqcbdfaabefgb.cfpcpqjbgsjbpcgqchbcbjhfeefppsoa;cpnb
rquv.csoybogcyfesqupc se ujpgfo bpcgqcgnbc eb.sgcqkcnbecobrcf lufsogfo b
fo.clusgbcabousobvxchbvsbybcsocgnbsecebfvsgxtcGnbocfvvcqkcfcpu..bocpnb
rquv.chbc.spsvvupsqob.cfo.crquv.ceu.bvxcfo.c qogbjiguqupvxcebiuvpbcgnb
ibepqocpnbcnf.cqovxcfckbrcnquepchbkqebchbbocvsgbefvvxcf.qesoatcPnb
rfpcofguefvvxcqkcfcafx,cvsybvxcfo.cibf b-vqysoac.spiqpsgsqo,chugckeqj
 qogsoufvckfsvuebpcfo.cjspkqeguobpcpnbcnf.c qjbcgqc.bpsebcpqc_wbbovx_
gnfgcfvvcpnquv.cvsybcsocibf bcfo.cmqxcfo.cpnquv.coqgc_.feb_cgqchebfwcgnb
ibf b,cgnfgcgnbcpvsangbpgcmfe,cgnbcpjfvvbpgc.spfpgbeceb.u b.cnbecfvjqpg
gqckebozx,cfo.cpnbcrquv.cifppcsocfocsopgfogckeqjcgnbchesangbpgcnqibpcfo.
kfo sbpcgqc uepsoacnbeckfgbcfo.cefysoa,cfo.cwoq wsoacnbecnbf.cfafsopg
gnbcrfvvt

FjfvsfcSyfoqyof,cgqq,cpu..bovxcf luseb.cbdgefqe.sofexcsjiqegfo bcso
WfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pcbxbpcfo.crfpcgebfgb.chxcnbecrsgncbdgefqe.sofex
ebpib g,cieqhfhvxcqovxchb fupbcFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcnf.cgneqrocnbepbvkcnbfeg
fo.cpquvcsogqcgnbciebifefgsqoptcPnbcnf.cuo.begfwbocgqcvfxcgnbcgfhvb,
gqcieqys.bcgnbcvsobo,c eq wbex,cbg t,cfo.cgqc qqwcgnbc.spnbpcsocnbe
wsg nbo,cfo.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcnf.cvbkgcsgcfvvcsocnbecnfo.pcfo.caqob
nbepbvkcgqcgnbc bjbgbextcBybexgnsoacnf.chbbocrbvvc.qobtcBybocgnb
gfhvb- vqgncrfpcobfevxc vbfo;cgnbc eq wbex,cwosybp,ckqewpcfo.cavfppbp
rbeb,cqkc quepb,cqkcfvvcpnfibpcfo.cifggbeop,cvbogchxc.skkbebogcvq.abep,
hugcgnbcgfhvbcrfpcieqibevxcvfs.cfgcgnbcgsjbcksdb.,cfo.cFjfvsfcSyfoqyof,
kbbvsoacpnbcnf.c.qobcnbecrqewcrbvv,cnf.ciugcqocfchvf wcpsvwc.ebppcfo.
fc ficrsgncobrcjqueosoaceshhqopcfo.cjbgcgnbcebgueosoacifegxcrsgncpqjb
ies.btcGnspcies.b,cgnquancmupgsksfhvb,c.spivbfpb.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofckqe
pqjbcebfpqo:c“fpcgnquancgnbcgfhvbc quv.coqgcnfybchbbocvfs.cbd bigchx
FjfvsfcSyfoqyof!”cPnbc.spvswb.cgnbc ficrsgncobrceshhqop,cgqqtc“ quv.cpnb
hbcpgu wcui,cgnbcpguis.cAbejfo,chb fupbcpnbcrfpcjspgebppcqkcgnbcnqupb,
fo.cnf.c qopbogb.cfpcfckfyquecgqcnbvicnbeciqqecvq.abep!cFpcfckfyque!
Kfo xcgnfg!cWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pckfgnbecrnqcnf.chbbocfc qvqobvcfo.cfvjqpg
fcaqybeoqecnf.cpqjbgsjbpcnf.cgnbcgfhvbcpbgckqeckqegxcibepqop,cfo.cgnbo
foxqobcvswbcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof,cqecefgnbecVu.rsaqyof,crquv.coqgcnfybchbbo
fvvqrb.csogqcgnbcwsg nbot”

WfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cnqrbybe,ciugcqkkcbdiebppsoacnbeckbbvsoapckqecgnb
gsjbcfo.c qogbogb.cnbepbvkcrsgncgebfgsoacnbec qv.vx,cgnquancpnbc.b s.b.
sorfe.vxcgnfgcpnbcrquv.c begfsovxcnfybcgqciugcFjfvsfcSyfoqyofc.qro
fo.cpbgcnbecsocnbecieqibecivf b,ckqecaqq.obppcqovxcwobrcrnfgcpnbcrfp
kfo xsoacnbepbvktcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrfpcseesgfgb.cgqqchxcgnbckf gcgnfg
nfe.vxcfoxcqkcgnbcvq.abepcsoysgb.cnf.c qjbcgqcgnbckuobefv,cbd big
gnbcIqvbcrnqcnf.cmupgcjfofab.cgqceuocsogqcgnbc bjbgbex,crnsvbcgqcgnb
jbjqesfvc.soobecgnbciqqebpgcfo.cjqpgcsopsaosks fogcqkcgnbjcnf.cgueob.
ui,cgnbcrebg nb.c ebfguebp,cjfoxcqkcgnbjcoqgclusgbcpqhbetcGnbcqv.be
fo.cjqebcebpib gfhvbcqkcgnbjcfvv,cfpcskchxc qjjqoc qopbog,cpgfxb.cfrfxt
IxqgecIbgeqysg ncVuznso,ckqecsopgfo b,crnqcjsangchbcpfs.cgqchbcgnbcjqpg
ebpib gfhvbcqkcfvvcgnbcvq.abep,c.s.coqgcfiibfe,cgnquancWfgbesofcSyfoqyof
nf.cgnbcbybosoachbkqebcgqv.cfvvcgnbcrqev.,cgnfgcspcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof,
Iqvbowf,cPqosfcfo.cgnbcIqvb,cgnfgcnbcrfpcgnbcjqpgcabobequp,
oqhvb-nbfegb.cjfocrsgncfcvfeabcieqibegxcfo.cyfpgc qoob gsqop,crnqcnf.
hbbocfckesbo.cqkcnbecksepgcnuphfo.’p,cfo.cfcaubpgcsocnbeckfgnbe’p
nqupb,cfo.cgnfgcnbcnf.cieqjspb.cgqcupbcfvvcnspcsokvubo bcgqcpb uebcnbe
fc qops.befhvbcibopsqotcSgcjupgchbcoqgb.cgnfgcrnbocWfgbesofcSyfoqyof
bdfvgb.cfoxqob’pc qoob gsqopcfo.ckqeguob,csgcrfpcrsgnqugcfoxcuvgbesqe
jqgsyb,clusgbc.spsogbebpgb.vx,ckqecgnbcjbebcivbfpuebcqkcf..soacgq
gnbc qopblubo bcqkcgnbcibepqociefspb.tcIeqhfhvxc“gfwsoacnspc ub”ckeqj
Vuznso,c“gnfgc qogbjigshvbcrebg ncVbhbzsfgoswqycnf.coqgcgueob.cui
bsgnbetcRnfgc.s.cnbckfo xcnsjpbvk?cNbcrfpcqovxcfpwb.cqugcqkcwso.obpp
fo.chb fupbcnbcrfpcpnfesoacgnbcpfjbceqqjcrsgncIxqgecIbgeqysg ncfo.crfpcf
kesbo.cqkcnsp,cpqcgnfgcsgcrquv.cnfybchbbocfrwrfe.coqgcgqcsoysgbcnsjt”

Fjqoacgnqpbcrnqckfsvb.cgqcfiibfecrbebc“gnbcabogbbvcvf.xcfo.cnbe
qv.-jfs.spnc.fuangbe,”crnqcnf.cqovxchbbocvq.abepcsocgnbcnqupbckqecgnb
vfpgckqegosang,chugcnf.cpbybefvcgsjbpc qjivfsob.cqkcgnbcoqspbcfo.cuieqfe
socWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pceqqj,cbpib sfvvxcrnbocJfejbvf.qycnf.c qjb
hf wc.euowtcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcnbfe.cgnspckeqjcFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcrnq,
lufeebvvsoacrsgncWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cfo.cgnebfgbosoacgqcgueocgnbcrnqvb
kfjsvxcqugcqkc.qqep,cnf.cpnqugb.cfgcnbecgnfgcgnbxc“rbebcoqgcrqegncgnb
kqqg”cqkcgnbcnqoquefhvbcvq.abepcrnqjcgnbxcrbebc.spguehsoatcWfgbesof
Syfoqyofc.bgbejsob.coqrcgqcsoysgbcgnspcvf.xcfo.cnbec.fuangbe,c“rnqpb
kqqgcpnbcrfpcoqgcrqegn,”cfo.crnqcnf.cgueob.cfrfxcnfuangsvxcrnbocpnb
 fpufvvxcjbgcgnbj,cpqcgnfgcgnbxcjsangcwoqrcgnfgc“pnbcrfpcjqebcoqhvbcso
nbecgnquangpcfo.ckbbvsoapcfo.c.s.coqgcnfehquecjfvs b,”cfo.cjsangcpbb
gnfgcpnbcrfpcoqgcf  upgqjb.cgqcnbecrfxcqkcvsysoatcPnbcnf.cieqiqpb.cgq
jfwbcgnspc vbfecgqcgnbjcfgc.soobecrsgncfvvupsqopcgqcnbecvfgbckfgnbe’p
aqybeoqepnsi,cfo.cfvpqcfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcgqcnsogcgnfgcsgcrfpcbd bb.soavx
pguis.cqkcgnbjcgqcgueocfrfxcqocjbbgsoacnbetcGnbckfgc qvqobv-jfmqec(nb
rfpcebfvvxcfc.sp nfeab.cqkks becqkcvqrcefow)crfpcfvpqcfhpbog,chugcsg
fiibfeb.cgnfgcnbcnf.chbboc“oqgcnsjpbvk”ckqecgnbcvfpgcgrqc.fxptcGnbcifegx
 qopspgb.cqkcgnbcIqvb,cfcrebg nb.cvqqwsoac vbewcrsgncfcpiqggxckf bcfo.
fcaebfpxc qfg,crnqcnf.coqgcfcrqe.cgqcpfxckqecnsjpbvk,cfo.cpjbvg
fhqjsofhvx,cfc.bfkcfo.cfvjqpgchvso.cqv.cjfocrnqcnf.cqo bchbbocsocgnb
iqpgcqkks bcfo.crnqcnf.chbbockeqjcsjjbjqesfvcfabpcjfsogfsob.chxcpqjbqob
fgcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof’pt

Fcebgseb.c vbewcqkcgnbc qjjsppfesfgc.bifegjbogc fjb,cgqq;cnbcrfp
.euow,cnf.cfcvqu.cfo.cjqpgcuopbbjvxcvfuancfo.cqovxckfo x--rfpcrsgnqug
fcrfspg qfg!cQobcqkcgnbcyspsgqepcpfgcpgefsangc.qrocgqcgnbcgfhvbcrsgnqug
bybocaebbgsoacWfgbesofcSyfoqyoftcKsofvvxcqobcibepqocnfysoacoqcpusg
fiibfeb.csocnspc.ebppsoa-aqro,chugcgnspcrfpcgqqcju n,cfo.cgnbcbkkqegpcqk
FjfvsfcSyfoqyofcfo.cgnbcIqvbcpu  bb.b.csocebjqysoacnsjtcGnbcIqvbchequang
rsgncnsj,cnqrbybe,cgrqcqgnbecIqvbpcrnqc.s.coqgcvsybcfgcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof’p
fo.crnqjcoqcqobcnf.cpbbocnbebchbkqebtcFvvcgnspcseesgfgb.cWfgbesof
Syfoqyofcsogbopbvxtc“Kqecrnqjcnf.cgnbxcjf.bcfvvcgnbpbciebifefgsqop
gnbo?”cGqcjfwbceqqjckqecgnbcyspsgqepcgnbc nsv.ebocnf.coqgcbybochbbocvfs.
kqecfgcgnbcgfhvb;chugcgnbcgrqcvsggvbcqobpcrbebcpsggsoacqocfchbo ncsocgnb
kuegnbpgc qeobecrsgncgnbsec.soobecvfs.cqocfchqd,crnsvbcIqvbowfcfpcfchsa
asevcnf.cgqcvqqwcfkgbecgnbj,ckbb.cgnbj,cfo.cwbbicgnbsecoqpbpcrsib.cvswb
rbvv-heb.c nsv.ebo’pt

WfgbesofcSyfoqyof,csockf g,c quv.cnfe.vxcnbvicjbbgsoacnbecaubpgpcrsgn
so ebfpb.c.saosgx,cfo.cbybocnfuangsobpptcPnbcpgfeb.cfgcpqjbcqkcgnbjcrsgn
pib sfvcpbybesgx,cfo.cvqkgsvxcsoysgb.cgnbjcgqcgfwbcgnbsecpbfgptcEupnsoa
gqcgnbc qo vupsqocgnfgcFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcjupgchbcebpiqopshvbckqecgnqpbcrnq
rbebcfhpbog,cpnbchbafocgebfgsoacnbecrsgncbdgebjbcoqo nfvfo b,crns ncgnb
vfggbecieqjigvxcqhpbeyb.cfo.cebpbogb.tcPu ncfchbasoosoacrfpcoqcaqq.cqjbo
kqecgnbcbo.tcFvvcrbebcpbfgb.cfgcvfpgt

Efpwqvoswqyc fjbcsocfvjqpgcfgcgnbcjqjbogcqkcgnbsecebgueockeqjcgnb
 bjbgbextcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrfpcaebfgvxc.bvsangb.cgqcpbbcnsj,csocgnb
ksepgcivf b,chb fupbcnbcrfpcgnbcqobc“b.u fgb.cyspsgqe,cfo.,cfpcbybexqob
wobr,crfpcsocgrqcxbfepcgqcgfwbcfcieqkbppqepnsicsocgnbcuosybepsgx,”cfo.
pb qo.vxchb fupbcnbcsjjb.sfgbvxcfo.cebpib gkuvvxcfiqvqaspb.ckqecnfysoa
hbbocuofhvbcgqchbcfgcgnbckuobefvtcPnbciqpsgsybvxciquo b.cuiqocnsj,cfo.
jf.bcnsjcpsgcqocnbecvbkgcnfo.c(FjfvsfcSyfoqyofcrfpcqocnbecesang)tcSo
pisgbcqkcnbec qogsoufvcfodsbgxcgnfgcgnbc.spnbpcpnquv.chbcifppb.cequo.
 qeeb gvxcfo.cgnfgcbybexqobcpnquv.cgfpgbcgnbj,csocpisgbcqkcgnbcfaqospsoa
 quancrns ncsogbeeuigb.cnbecbybexcjsougbcfo.cpbbjb.cgqcnfybcaeqrocrqepb
.uesoacgnbcvfpgckbrc.fxp,cpnbcnfpgbob.cgqciquecqugcsocfcnfvkcrnspibecgq
Efpwqvoswqycfvvcnbecpuiiebppb.ckbbvsoapcfo.cnbecmupgcso.saofgsqocfg
gnbckfsvuebcqkcgnbc.soobe,csogbepibepsoacnbecebjfewpcrsgncvsybvxcfo.
uo qogeqvvfhvbcvfuangbecfgcgnbcbdibopbcqkcnbecyspsgqepcfo.cbpib sfvvxcqk
nbecvfo.vf.xt

“Sg’pcfvvcgnfgc u wqq’pckfuvg!cXqucwoqrcrnqjcScjbfo?cNbe,cnbe!”cWfgbesof
Syfoqyofcoq..b.cgqrfe.pcgnbcvfo.vf.xtc“Vqqwcfgcnbe,cpnb’pcjfwsoacequo.
bxbp,cpnbckbbvpcgnfgcrbcfebcgfvwsoacfhqugcnbecfo.c fo’gcuo.bepgfo.t
Ikqq,cgnbcqrv!cNf-nf!c( quan- quan- quant)cFo.crnfgc.qbpcpnbciugcqocgnfg
 fickqe?c( quan- quan- quant)cNfybcxqucoqgs b.cgnfgcpnbcrfogpcbybexqob
gqc qops.becgnfgcpnbcspcifgeqospsoacjbcfo.c.qsoacjbcfocnqoquechxchbsoa
nbeb?cScfpwb.cnbecvswbcfcpbopshvbcrqjfocgqcsoysgbcibqivb,cbpib sfvvx
gnqpbcrnqcwobrcjxcvfgbcnuphfo.,cfo.cvqqwcfgcgnbcpbgcqkckqqvpcpnbcnfp
hequang!cGnbcprbbip!cVqqwcfgcgnfgcqobcrsgncgnbcpiqggxckf btcFo.cgnqpb
rebg nb.cIqvbp,cnf-nf-nf!c( quan- quan- quant)cOqgcqobcqkcgnbjcnfpcbybe
iqwb.cnspcoqpbcsocnbeb,cS’ybcobybecpbgcbxbpcqocgnbjtcRnfgcnfybcgnbxc qjb
nbebckqe,cScfpwcxqu?cGnbebcgnbxcpsgcsocfceqrtcNbx,c_ifo_!”cpnbc esb.
pu..bovxcgqcqobcqkcgnbj,c“nfybcxqucgfpgb.cgnbcifo fwbp?cGfwbcpqjbcjqeb!
Nfybcpqjbchbbe!cRqo’gcxqucnfybcpqjbcyq.wf?cVqqw,cnb’pcmujib.cuicfo.csp
jfwsoacnspchqrp,cgnbxcjupgchbclusgbcpgfeyb.,ciqqecgnsoaptcObybecjso.,
vbgcgnbjcbfg!cGnbxc.qo’gcjfwbcfcoqspb,cfoxrfx,cgnquancS’jcebfvvxcfkefs.
kqecquecvfo.vf.x’pcpsvybecpiqqoptttcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof!”cpnbcf..ebppb.cnbe
pu..bovx,cfvjqpgcfvqu.,c“skcxquecpiqqopcpnquv.cnfiibocgqchbcpgqvbo,
Scrqo’gchbcebpiqopshvb,cScrfeocxqu!cNf-nf-nf!”cPnbcvfuanb.cgueosoacgq
Efpwqvoswqy,cfo.cfafsocoq..soacgqrfe.pcgnbcvfo.vf.x,csocnsancavbbcfgcnbe
pfvvxtc“Pnbc.s.o’gcuo.bepgfo.,cpnbc.s.o’gcuo.bepgfo.cfafso!cVqqwcnqr
pnbcpsgpcrsgncnbecjqugncqibo!cFocqrv,cfcebfvcqrv!cFocqrvcsocobrceshhqop,
nf-nf-nf!”

Nbebcnbecvfuancgueob.cfafsocgqcfocsopukkbefhvbcksgcqkc quansoacgnfg
vfpgb.cksybcjsougbptc.eqipcqkcibepisefgsqocpgqq.cqugcqocnbeckqebnbf.
fo.cnbecnfo.wbe nsbkcrfpcpgfsob.crsgnchvqq.tcPnbcpnqrb.cEfpwqvoswqy
gnbchvqq.csocpsvbo b,cfo.cfpcpqqocfpcpnbc quv.cabgcnbechebfgnchbafo
rnspibesoacgqcnsjcfafsocrsgncbdgebjbcfosjfgsqocfo.cfcnb gs ckvupncqocnbe
 nbbwpt

“.qcxqucwoqr,cScafybcnbecgnbcjqpgc.bvs fgbcsopgeu gsqop,cpqcgqcpibfw,
kqecsoysgsoacgnfgcvf.xcfo.cnbec.fuangbe,cxqucuo.bepgfo.cqkcrnqjcScfj
pibfwsoa?cSgcobb.b.cgnbcugjqpgc.bvs f x,cgnbcaebfgbpgcos bgx,chugcpnb
nfpcjfofab.cgnsoapcpqcgnfgcgnfgckqqv,cgnfgc qo bsgb.chfaafab,cgnfg
ieqyso sfvcoqobogsgx,cpsjivxchb fupbcpnbcspcgnbcrs.qrcqkcfcjfmqe,cfo.
nfpc qjbcgqcgexcfo.cabgcfcibopsqocfo.cgqckefxcqugcnbecpwsegpcsocgnb
aqybeojbogcqkks bp,chb fupbcfgckskgxcpnbcifsogpcnbeckf bc(bybexhq.x
woqrpcsg)tttcfc ebfguebcvswbcgnfgc.s.coqgcgnsowcksgcgqc qjb,cfo.cnfp
oqgcbybocfoprbeb.cgnbcsoysgfgsqo,crns ncgnbcjqpgcqe.sofexcaqq.cjfoobep
ebluseb.!cSc fo’gcuo.bepgfo.crnxcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncnfpcoqgc qjb?cHug
rnbeb’pcPqosf?cRnbebcnfpcpnbcaqob?cFn,cgnbebcpnbcspcfgcvfpg!crnfgcspcsg,
Pqosf,crnbebcnfybcxquchbbo?cSg’pcq..cgnfgcbybocfgcxqueckfgnbe’pckuobefv
xqucpnquv.chbcpqcuoiuo gufvtcEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cjfwbceqqjckqecnbe
hbps.bcxqutcGnfg’pcxquecivf b,cPqosftttcgfwbcrnfgcxqucvswbtcNfybcpqjbcqk
gnbc qv.cbogeébcrsgncmbvvx,cgnfg’pcgnbchbpgtcGnbx’vvchesoacgnbcifo fwbp
.seb gvxtcNfybcgnbxcasybocgnbc nsv.ebocpqjb?cIqvbowf,cnfybcxqucaqg
bybexgnsoa?c( quan- quan- quant)cGnfg’pcfvvcesangtcHbcfcaqq.casev,cVs.f,
fo.,cWqvxf,c.qo’gcks.abgcrsgncxqueckbbg;cpsgcvswbcfcvsggvbcabogvbjfot
Rnfgcfebcxqucpfxsoa,cPqosf?”

Pqosfcnfpgbob.cgqcasybcnbecIxqgecIbgeqysg n’pcfiqvqasbp,cgexsoacgq
pibfwcvqu.cboquanckqecbybexqobcgqcnbfecfo.c febkuvvxc nqqpsoacgnbcjqpg
ebpib gkuvcinefpbpcrns ncpnbcfggeshugb.cgqcIxqgecIbgeqysg ntcPnbcf..b.
gnfgcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncnf.cifegs uvfevxcgqv.cnbecgqcpfxcgnfg,cfpcpqqocfp
nbciqppshvxc quv.,cnbcrquv.c qjbcsjjb.sfgbvxcgqc.sp uppc_hupsobpp_cfvqob
rsgncnbecfo.cgqc qops.becrnfgc quv.chbc.qobckqecnbe,cbg t,cbg t

Pqosfcwobrcgnfgcgnspcrquv.c qjkqegcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,crquv.ckvfggbecnbe
fo.caefgskxcnbecies.btcPnbcpfgc.qrochbps.bcEfpwqvoswqy;cpnbcjf.bcnsjcf
nueesb.chqr,cavfo soac uesqupvxcfgcnsjtcHugckqecgnbcebpgcqkcgnbcgsjb
pnbcpbbjb.cgqcfyqs.cvqqwsoacfgcnsjcqecpibfwsoacgqcnsjtcPnbcpbbjb.
fhpbog-jso.b.,cgnquancpnbcwbigcvqqwsoacfgcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cgexsoa
gqcivbfpbcnbetcObsgnbecpnbcoqecWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcnf.chbbocfhvbcgqcabg
jqueosoa;cPqosfcrfpcrbfesoac.fewcheqro,cfo.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcnf.cqocnbe
qovxc.ebpp,cfc.fewcpgesib.c qggqocqobt

GnbcjbppfabckeqjcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncrfpcybexcpu  bppkuvtcVspgbosoacgq
Pqosfcrsgnc.saosgx,cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcsoluseb.crsgncblufvc.saosgxcnqr
IxqgecIbgeqysg ncrfp,cgnbocfgcqo bcrnspibeb.cfvjqpgcfvqu.cgq
Efpwqvoswqycgnfgcsgc begfsovxcrquv.cnfybchbbocpgefoabckqecfcjfocqk
IxqgecIbgeqysg n’pciqpsgsqocfo.cpgfo.soacgqckso.cnsjpbvkcsocpu n
“bdgefqe.sofexc qjifox,”csocpisgbcqkcnspc.byqgsqocgqcnbeckfjsvxcfo.cnsp
qv.ckesbo.pnsicrsgncnbeckfgnbet

“Gnfg’pcrnxcScfjcpqcaefgbkuvcgqcxqu,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cgnfgcxqucnfyb
oqgc.sp.fsob.cjxcnqpisgfvsgx,cbybocsocpu ncpueequo.soap,”cpnbcf..b.
fvjqpgcfvqu.tc“HugcScfjcpuebcgnfgcsgcrfpcqovxcxquecpib sfvcfkkb gsqockqe
jxciqqecnuphfo.cgnfgcnfpcjf.bcxqucwbbicxquecieqjspbt”

Gnbocqo bcjqebcrsgncies.bcfo.c.saosgxcpnbcp foob.cnbecyspsgqep,cfo.
pu..bovxcsoluseb.cfvqu.cf eqppcgnbcgfhvbcqkcgnbc.bfkcjfo:c“Rquv.o’gcnb
nfybcpqjbcjqebcjbfg,cfo.cnf.cnbchbbocasybocpqjbcrsob?”cGnbcqv.cjfocjf.b
oqcfoprbecfo.ckqecfcvqoacrnsvbc quv.coqgcuo.bepgfo.crnfgcnbcrfpcfpwb.,
gnquancnspcobsanhquepcfjupb.cgnbjpbvybpchxciqwsoacfo.cpnfwsoacnsjtcNb
psjivxcafzb.cfhqugcnsjcrsgncnspcjqugncqibo,crns ncqovxcso ebfpb.cgnb
abobefvcjsegnt

“Rnfgcfocsjhb svb!cVqqw,cvqqw!cRnxcrfpcnbchequang?cHugcfpcgqcIxqge
Ibgeqysg n,cScfvrfxpcnf.c qoks.bo bcsocnsj,”cWfgbesofcSyfoqyof
 qogsoub.,c“fo.,cqkc quepb,cnbcspcoqgcvswbttt”crsgncfocbdgebjbvxcpgbeo
kf bcpnbcf..ebppb.cFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcpqcpnfeivxcfo.cvqu.vxcgnfgcgnbcvfggbe
rfpclusgbc.sp qo begb.,c“oqgcvswbcxquec.ebppb.cuic.efaavbgfsvpcrnqj
jxckfgnbecrquv.coqgcnfybcgfwbocfpc qqwpcsogqcnspcwsg nbo,cfo.cjxcvfgb
nuphfo.crquv.cnfybc.qobcgnbjcnqoquecskcnbcnf.csoysgb.cgnbjcsocgnb
aqq.obppcqkcnspcnbfegt”

“Xbp,cnbcrfpckqo.cqkc.esow,cnbcrfpckqo.cqkcsg,cnbc.s.c.esow!”c esb.cgnb
 qjjsppfesfgc vbew,cauvisoac.qrocnspcgrbvkgncavfppcqkcyq.wft

“Jxcvfgbcnuphfo.c begfsovxcnf.cgnfgcrbfwobpp,cfo.cbybexqobcwoqrp
sg,”cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfggf wb.cnsjcfgcqo b,c“hugcnbcrfpcfcwso.cfo.
nqoquefhvbcjfo,crnqcvqyb.cfo.cebpib gb.cnspckfjsvxtcGnbcrqepgcqkcsgcrfp
nspcaqq.cofguebcjf.bcnsjcgeupgcfvvcpqegpcqkc.spebiugfhvbcibqivb,cfo.cnb
.efowcrsgnckbvvqrpcrnqcrbebcoqgcrqegncgnbcpqvbcqkcnspcpnqbtcRquv.cxqu
hbvsbybcsg,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cgnbxckquo.cfcasoabehebf.c q wcsocnsp
iq wbg;cnbcrfpc.bf.c.euow,chugcnbc.s.coqgckqeabgcgnbc nsv.ebo!”

“Fc q w?c.s.cxqucpfxcfc q w?”cpnqugb.cgnbc qjjsppfesfgc vbewt

WfgbesofcSyfoqyofc.s.coqgcyqu npfkbcfcebivxtcPnbcpsanb.,cvqpgcso
gnquangt

“Oqc.quhgcxqucgnsow,cvswbcbybexqob,cgnfgcScrfpcgqqcpbybebcrsgncnsj,”cpnb
rbogcqo,cf..ebppsoacEfpwqvoswqytc“Hugcgnfg’pcoqgcpq!cNbcebpib gb.cjb,cnb
ebpib gb.cjbcybexcju n!cNbcrfpcfcwso.-nbfegb.cjfo!cFo.cnqrcpqeexcScrfp
kqecnsjcpqjbgsjbp!cNbcrquv.cpsgcsocfc qeobecfo.cvqqwcfgcjb,cScupb.cgq
kbbvcpqcpqeexckqecnsj,cScupb.cgqcrfogcgqchbcwso.cgqcnsjcfo.cgnbocrquv.
gnsowcgqcjxpbvk:c‘Hbcwso.cgqcnsjcfo.cnbcrsvvc.esowcfafso,’csgcrfpcqovx
hxcpbybesgxcgnfgcxquc quv.cwbbicnsjcrsgnsochquo.pt”

“Xbp,cnbcupb.cgqcabgcnspcnfseciuvvb.ciebggxcqkgbo,”ceqfeb.cgnb
 qjjsppfesfgc vbewcfafso,cprfvvqrsoacfoqgnbecavfppcqkcyq.wft

“Pqjbckqqvpcrquv.chbcgnbchbggbeckqecfcaqq.c.euhhsoa,cfpcrbvvcfpcnfysoa
gnbsecnfseciuvvb.tcScfjcoqgcgfvwsoacqkcjxcvfgbcnuphfo.coqr!”cWfgbesof
Syfoqyofcpofiib.cfgcnsjt

Gnbckvupncqocnbec nbbwpcaebrcjqebcfo.cjqebcjfewb.,cnbec nbpgcnbfyb.tcSo
foqgnbecjsougbcpnbcrquv.cnfybchbbocebf.xcgqcjfwbcfcp bobtcJfoxcqkcgnb
yspsgqepcrbebcposaabesoa,cbys.bogvxc.bvsangb.tcGnbxchbafociqwsoacgnb
 qjjsppfesfgc vbewcfo.crnspibesoacpqjbgnsoacgqcnsjtcGnbxcrbebcbys.bogvx
gexsoacgqcbaacnsjcqot

“Fvvqrcjbcgqcfpwcrnfgcfebcxqucfvvu.soacgq,”chbafocgnbc vbew,c“gnfgcsp
gqcpfx,crnqpbtttcfhqugcrnqjtttc.s.cxqucpfxcmupgcoqrtttcHugcSc.qo’gc feb!
Gnfg’pcoqopbopb!cRs.qr!cSckqeasybcxquttttcIfpp!”

Fo.cnbcgqqwcfoqgnbec.esowcqkcyq.wft

Efpwqvoswqycpfgcsocpsvbo b,cvspgbosoacrsgnc.spaupgtcNbcqovxcfgbckeqj
iqvsgbobpp,cmupgcgfpgsoacgnbckqq.cgnfgcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrfpc qogsoufvvx
iuggsoacqocnspcivfgb,cgqcfyqs.cnuegsoacnbeckbbvsoaptcNbcrfg nb.cPqosf
sogbogvxtcHugcPqosfchb fjbcjqebcfo.cjqebcfodsqupcfo.c.spgebppb.;cpnb,
gqq,ckqebpfrcgnfgcgnbc.soobecrquv.coqgcbo.cibf bfhvx,cfo.cpfrcrsgn
gbeeqecWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pcaeqrsoacseesgfgsqotcPnbcwobrcgnfgcpnb,cPqosf,
rfpcgnbc nsbkcebfpqockqecgnbc‘abogbbv’cvf.sbp’c qogbjiguqupcgebfgjbogcqk
WfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pcsoysgfgsqotcPnbcnf.cnbfe.ckeqjcFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcgnfg
gnbcjqgnbecrfpciqpsgsybvxcqkkbo.b.cfgcgnbcsoysgfgsqocfo.cnf.cfpwb.cgnb
lubpgsqo:c“Nqrc quv.cpnbcvbgcnbec.fuangbecpsgc.qrochbps.bc_gnfgcxquoa
ibepqo_?”cPqosfcnf.cfckbbvsoacgnfgcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcnf.cfvebf.xcnbfe.
gnspcfo.cfocsopuvgcgqcPqosfcjbfogcjqebcgqcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcgnfocfo
sopuvgcgqcnbepbvk,cnbec nsv.ebo,cqecnbeckfgnbe,cPqosfcwobrcgnfg
WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrquv.coqgchbcpfgspksb.coqr,c“gsvvcpnbcnf.cpnqrocgnqpb
.efaavbgfsvpcgnfgcgnbxcrbebchqgnttt”cGqcjfwbcjfggbepcrqepbcpqjbqob
ifppb.cPqosf,ckeqjcgnbcqgnbecbo.cqkcgnbcgfhvb,cfcivfgbcrsgncgrqcnbfegp
isbe b.crsgncfocfeeqr,c ugcqugcqkchvf wchebf.tcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofckvupnb.
 esjpqocfo.cfgcqo bcpfs.cfvqu.cf eqppcgnbcgfhvbcgnfgcgnbcjfocrnqcpbogcsg
rfpc“fc.euowbocfpp!”

FjfvsfcSyfoqyofcrfpckqebpbbsoacpqjbgnsoacfjspp,cfo.cfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjb
.bbivxcrquo.b.chxcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pcnfuangsobpp,cfo.cgqcebpgqebcgnb
aqq.-nujquecqkcgnbc qjifoxcfo.cefspbcnbepbvkcsocgnbsecbpgbbjcpnbchbafo,
fieqiqpcqkcoqgnsoa,cgbvvsoacfcpgqexcfhqugcfocf lufsogfo bcqkcnbepc“Wfev
keqjcgnbc nbjspg’p,”crnqcrfpc.esysoacqobcosangcsocfc fh,cfo.cgnfgc“gnb
 fhjfocrfogb.cnsjcgqcwsvv,cfo.cWfevcybexcju nchbaab.cnsjcoqgcgqcwsvv,
fo.crbigcfo.c vfpib.cnfo.p,cfo.ckesangbob.cfo.ckeqjckbfecisbe b.cnsp
nbfegt”cGnquancWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcpjsvb.,cpnbcqhpbeyb.cfgcqo bcgnfg
FjfvsfcSyfoqyofcquangcoqgcgqcgbvvcfob .qgbpcsocEuppsfo;cgnbcvfggbecrfp
pgsvvcjqebcqkkbo.b.,cfo.cpnbcebgqegb.cgnfgcnbec“_YfgbecfupcHbevso_crfpcf
ybexcsjiqegfogcjfo,cfo.cfvrfxpcrbogcrsgncnspcnfo.pcsociq wbgpt”cWfgbesof
Syfoqyofc quv.coqgcebpgefsocnbepbvkcfo.cvfuanb.cpqcju ncgnfgcFjfvsf
Syfoqyofcvqpgcifgsbo bcfo.c quv.cp fe bvxc qogeqvcnbepbvkt

“Vspgbocgqcgnbcqrv!”cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrnspibeb.cfgcqo b,cnbe
aqq.-nujquecfvjqpgcebpgqeb.,c“pnbcjbfogcgqcpfxcnbcwbigcnspcnfo.pcso
nspciq wbgp,chugcpnbcpfs.cnbciugcnspcnfo.pcsocibqivb’pciq wbgpt
( quan- quant)cFo.cnfybcxqucoqgs b.,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cgnfgcfvvcgnbpb
Ibgbephueackqebsaobep,cgnbcAbejfopcbpib sfvvx,cfebcfvvcpguis.becgnfo
rb!c focxquckfo xcfoxqobcqkcupcgbvvsoacnqrc‘Wfevckeqjcgnbc nbjspg’p’
‘isbe b.cnspcnbfegckeqjckbfe’cfo.cgnfgcgnbcs.sqg,csopgbf.cqkciuospnsoa
gnbc fhjfo,c‘ vfpib.cnspcnfo.pcfo.crbig,cfo.cju nchbaab.t’cFn,cgnbckqqv!
Fo.cxqucwoqrcpnbckfo sbpcsg’pcybexcgqu nsoacfo.c.qbpcoqgcpupib gcnqr
pguis.cpnbcsp!cGqcjxcgnsowsoacgnfgc.euowboc qjjsppfesfgc vbewcspcfcaebfg
.bfvc vbybebe,cfoxrfxcqobc focpbbcgnfgcnbcnfpcf..vb.cnspchefsopcrsgn
.esow,chugcxqucwoqr,cgnbpbckqebsaobepcfebcfvrfxpcpqcrbvvchbnfyb.
fo.cpbesqupttttcVqqwcnqrcpnbcpsgpcavfesoa!cPnbcspcfoaex,cnf-nf!
( quan- quan- quant)”

Ebafsosoacnbecaqq.-nujque,cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofchbafocfgcqo bcgbvvsoa
Efpwqvoswqycgnfgcrnbocpnbcnf.cqhgfsob.cnbecibopsqo,cpnbcsogbo.b.cgqcqibo
fcp nqqvckqecgnbc.fuangbepcqkcabogvbjbocsocnbecofgsybcgqrocG----t
Gnspcrfpcgnbcksepgcgsjbcpnbcnf.cpiqwbocgqcnsjcqkcgnbcieqmb g,cfo.cpnb
vfuo nb.cqugcsogqcgnbcjqpgcfvvuesoac.bgfsvptcSgcpu..bovxcfiibfeb.cgnfg
WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcnf.csocnbecnfo.pcgnbcybexc begsks fgbcqkcnqoquecqk
rns ncJfejbvf.qycnf.cpiqwbocgqcEfpwqvoswqycsocgnbcgfybeo,crnbocnbcgqv.
nsjcgnfgcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cnspcrskb,cnf.c.fo b.cgnbcpnfrvc.fo b
hbkqebcgnbcaqybeoqecfo.cqgnbecaebfgcibepqofabpcqocvbfysoacp nqqvtcGnsp
 begsks fgbcqkcnqoquecrfpcqhysqupvxcsogbo.b.coqrcgqcieqybcWfgbesof
Syfoqyof’pcesangcgqcqibocfchqfe.soa-p nqqv;chugcpnbcnf.cfejb.cnbepbvk
rsgncsgc nsbkvxcrsgncgnbcqhmb gcqkcqybernbvjsoac“gnqpbcgrqcpgu w-ui
.efaavbgfsvp”cskcgnbxc fjbcgqcgnbc.soobe,cfo.cieqysoacso qogbpgfhvx
gnfgcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcrfpcqkcgnbcjqpgcoqhvb,c“pnbcjsangcbybocpfx
fespgq efgs ckfjsvx,cfc qvqobv’pc.fuangbecfo.crfpckfecpuibesqecgq
 begfsocf.yboguebppbpcrnqcnfybchbbocpqcju ncgqcgnbckqebcqkcvfgbt”cGnb
 begsks fgbcqkcnqoquecsjjb.sfgbvxcifppb.csogqcgnbcnfo.pcqkcgnbc.euowbo
aubpgp,cfo.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofc.s.coqgcgexcgqcebgfsocsg,ckqecsgcf gufvvx
 qogfsob.cgnbcpgfgbjbogc_bocgqugbpcvbggebp_,cgnfgcnbeckfgnbecrfpcqkcgnb
efowcqkcfcjfmqe,cfo.cfvpqcfc qjifosqocqkcfocqe.be,cpqcgnfgcpnbcebfvvx
rfpcfvjqpgcgnbc.fuangbecqkcfc qvqobvt

Rfejsoacui,cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcieq bb.b.cgqcbovfeabcqocgnbcibf bkuvcfo.
nfiixcvskbcgnbxcrquv.cvbf.csocG----,cqocgnbcaxjofpsujcgbf nbepcrnqj
pnbcrquv.cboafabcgqcasybcvbppqopcsocnbechqfe.soa-p nqqv,cqobcfcjqpg
ebpib gfhvbcqv.cKebo njfo,cqobcJfoaqg,crnqcnf.cgfuangcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof
nbepbvkcsocqv.c.fxpcfo.crfpcpgsvvcvsysoacsocG----,cfo.crquv.coqc.quhg
gbf ncsocnbecp nqqvcqocjq.befgbcgbejptcObdgcpnbcpiqwbcqkcPqosfcrnqcrquv.
aqcrsgncnbecgqcG----cfo.cnbvicnbecsocfvvcnbecivfoptcFgcgnspcpqjbqobcfg
gnbckuegnbecbo.cqkcgnbcgfhvbcafybcfcpu..bocaukkfrt

GnquancWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcgesb.cgqcfiibfecgqchbc.sp.fsokuvvxcuofrfebcqk
sg,cpnbcefspb.cnbecyqs bcfo.chbafocfgcqo bcpibfwsoacrsgnc qoys gsqocqk
Pqosf’pcuo.quhgb.cfhsvsgxcgqcfppspgcnbe,cqkc“nbecabogvbobpp,cifgsbo b,
.byqgsqo,cabobeqpsgxcfo.caqq.cb.u fgsqo,”cgfiisoacPqosfcqocgnbc nbbwcfo.
wsppsoacnbecrfejvxcgrs btcPqosfckvupnb.c esjpqo,cfo.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyof
pu..bovxchuepgcsogqcgbfep,csjjb.sfgbvxcqhpbeysoacgnfgcpnbcrfpc“obeyqup
fo.cpsvvx,cgnfgcpnbcrfpcgqqcju ncuipbg,cgnfgcsgcrfpcgsjbcgqcksospn,cfo.
fpcgnbc.soobecrfpcqybe,csgcrfpcgsjbcgqcnfo.cequo.cgnbcgbft”

Fgcgnfgcjqjbog,cFjfvsfcSyfoqyof,c.bbivxcfaaesbyb.cfgcgfwsoacoqcifegcso
gnbc qoybepfgsqo,cfo.coqgchbsoacvspgbob.cgq,cjf.bcqobcvfpgcbkkqeg,
fo.crsgncpb ebgcjspasysoapcybogueb.cqocfocbd bb.soavxc.bbicfo.crbsangx
qhpbeyfgsqo,cgnfgc“socgnbckuguebchqfe.soa-p nqqvcpnbcrquv.cnfybcgqcifx
ifegs uvfecfggbogsqocgqc_.sbcRäp nb_,cfo.cgnfgcgnbebc begfsovxcjupgchbcf
aqq.c_.fjb_cgqcvqqwcfkgbecgnbcvsobo,cfo.cpb qo.vxcgnfgcgnbcxquoacvf.sbp
jupgcoqgcoqybvpcfgcosangcebf.t”

WfgbesofcSyfoqyof,crnqc begfsovxcrfpcuipbgcfo.cybexcgseb.,cfpcrbvvcfp
nbfegsvxcps wcqkcgnbc.soobe,cfgcqo bc ugcpnqegcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof,cpfxsoa
“pnbcwobrcoqgnsoacfhqugcsgcfo.crfpcgfvwsoacoqopbopb,cgnfgcsgcrfpcgnb
hupsobppcqkcgnbcvfuo.excjfs.,cfo.coqgcqkcgnbc.seb gebppcqkcfcnsan- vfpp
hqfe.soa-p nqqvcgqcvqqwcfkgbec_.sbcRäp nb_,cfo.cfpckqecoqybv-ebf.soa,
gnfgcrfpcpsjivxceu.bobpp,cfo.cpnbchbaab.cnbecgqchbcpsvbogt”cFjfvsf
Syfoqyofckseb.cuicfo.cabggsoacfoaexcqhpbeyb.cgnfgcpnbcqovxc“jbfogcnbe
aqq.,”cfo.cgnfgc“pnbcnf.cjbfogcnbecybexcaqq.,”cfo.cgnfgc“sgcrfpcvqoa
pso bcpnbcnf.cifs.cnbec_aqv._ckqecgnbcvq.asoapt”

WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfgcqo bc“pbgcnbec.qro,”cpfxsoacgnfgcsgcrfpcfcvsbcgq
pfxcpnbcrspnb.cnbecaqq.,chb fupbcqovxcxbpgbe.fxcrnbocnbec.bf.cnuphfo.
rfpcvxsoacqocgnbcgfhvb,cpnbcnf.crqeesb.cnbecfhqugcgnbcvq.asoaptcGqcgnsp
FjfvsfcSyfoqyofcybexcfiieqiesfgbvxcqhpbeyb.cgnfgcpnbcnf.csoysgb.cgnqpb
vf.sbp,chugc“gnqpbcvf.sbpcnf.coqgc qjb,chb fupbcgnqpbcvf.sbpc_feb_
vf.sbpcfo.c fooqgc qjbcgqcfcvf.xcrnqcspcoqgcfcvf.xt”cWfgbesofcSyfoqyof
fgcqo bciqsogb.cqugcgqcnbe,cgnfgcfpcpnbcrfpcfcpvugcpnbc quv.coqgcmu.ab
rnfgcjf.bcqobcebfvvxcfcvf.xtcFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcfgcqo bc.b vfeb.cgnfgcnbe
“_YfgbecfupcHbevso_crfpcfcybex,cybexcsjiqegfogcjfo,cfo.chqgncnfo.pcso
iq wbgpcrbog,cfo.cfvrfxpcupb.cgqcpfx:c‘Iqqk!ciqqk!’”cfo.cpnbcvbfig
uickeqjcgnbcgfhvbcgqcebiebpbogcnbeckfgnbe,cpgs wsoacnbecnfo.pcsocnbe
iq wbgp,ciukksoacnbec nbbwp,cfo.cuggbesoacyfaubcpquo.pcebpbjhvsoac“iqqk!
iqqk!”cfjs.cvqu.cvfuangbeckeqjcfvvcgnbcvq.abep,crnqciueiqpbvxcbo quefab.
FjfvsfcSyfoqyof,cnqisoackqecfcksangt

Hugcgnspcrfpcgqqcju nckqecWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cfo.cpnbcfgcqo bc.b vfeb.,
pqcgnfgcfvvc quv.cnbfe,cgnfgcFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcieqhfhvxcobybecnf.cf
kfgnbe,chugcrfpcpsjivxcfc.euowbocIbgbephueacKsoo,cfo.cnf.c begfsovxcqo b
hbbocfc qqwcfo.cieqhfhvxcpqjbgnsoacrqepbtcFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcgueob.cfpceb.
fpcfcvqhpgbecfo.cplubfvb.cgnfgcibenfipcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcobybecnf.cf
kfgnbe,c“hugcpnbcnf.cfc_YfgbecfupcHbevso_cfo.cgnfgcnbcrqebcfcvqoac qfg
fo.cfvrfxpcpfs.ciqqk-iqqk-iqqk!”

WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcqhpbeyb.c qogbjiguqupvxcgnfgcfvvcwobrcrnfgcnbeckfjsvx
rfpcfo.cgnfgcqocgnfgcybexc begsks fgbcqkcnqoquecsgcrfpcpgfgb.csociesog
gnfgcnbeckfgnbecrfpcfc qvqobv,crnsvbcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof’pckfgnbe--skcpnb
ebfvvxcnf.cqob--rfpcieqhfhvxcpqjbcKsoospncjsvwjfo,chugcgnfgcieqhfhvxcpnb
obybecnf.cfckfgnbecfgcfvv,cpso bcsgcrfpcpgsvvcuo begfsocrnbgnbecnbecofjb
rfpcFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcqecFjfvsfcVu.rsaqyoft

FgcgnspcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof,cvfpnb.cgqckuex,cpgeu wcgnbcgfhvbcrsgncnbeckspg,
fo.cpnesbwb.cgnfgcpnbcrfpcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof,cfo.coqgcVu.rsaqyof,c“gnfg
nbec_Yfgbe_crfpcofjb.cMqnfoocfo.cgnfgcnbcrfpcfchueaqjbspgbe,cfo.cgnfg
WfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pc_Yfgbe_crfpclusgbcobybecfchueaqjbspgbet”cWfgbesof
Syfoqyofceqpbckeqjcnbec nfse,cfo.crsgncfcpgbeocfo.cfiifebogvxc fvjcyqs b
(gnquancpnbcrfpcifvbcfo.cnbec nbpgcrfpcnbfysoa)cqhpbeyb.cgnfgc“skcpnb
.feb.ckqecqobcjqjbogcgqcpbgcnbec qogbjigshvbcrebg ncqkcfckfgnbecqocf
vbybvcrsgncnbecifif,cpnb,cWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,crquv.cgbfecnbec ficqkkcnbe
nbf.cfo.cgefjivbcsgcuo.beckqqgt”cFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcefocfhqugcgnbceqqj,
pnqugsoacfgcgnbcgqicqkcnbecyqs b,cgnfgcpnbcrfpcjspgebppcqkcgnbcnqupbcfo.
gnfgcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcpnquv.cvbfybcgnbcvq.asoapcgnfgcjsougb;cgnbocpnb
eupnb.ckqecpqjbcebfpqocgqc qvvb gcgnbcpsvybecpiqqopckeqjcgnbcgfhvbt
Gnbebcrfpcfcaebfgcqug excfo.cuieqfe,cgnbc nsv.ebochbafoc exsoatcPqosf
efocgqcebpgefsocWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,chugcrnbocFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcpnqugb.
pqjbgnsoacfhqugc“gnbcxbvvqrcgs wbg,”cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofciupnb.cPqosf
frfx,cfo.ceupnb.cfgcgnbcvfo.vf.xcgqc feexcqugcnbecgnebfgt

Fgcgnfgcjsougbcgnbc.qqecqibob.,cfo.cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncVuznsocfiibfeb.
qocgnbcgnebpnqv.tcNbcpgqq.cp foosoacgnbcifegxcrsgncpbybebcfo.cysasvfog
bxbptcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofceupnb.cgqcnsjt



 NFIGBEcSSS

“IxqgecIbgeqysg n,”cpnbc esb.,c“ieqgb gcjbtttcxqucfgcvbfpg!cJfwbcgnsp
kqqvspncrqjfocuo.bepgfo.cgnfgcpnbc fo’gchbnfybcvswbcgnspcgqcfcvf.xcso
jspkqeguobtttcgnfgcgnbebcspcfcvfrckqecpu ncgnsoapttttcS’vvcaqcgqcgnb
aqybeoqe-abobefvcnsjpbvkttttcPnbcpnfvvcfoprbeckqecsgttttcEbjbjhbesoacjx
kfgnbe’pcnqpisgfvsgxcieqgb gcgnbpbcqeinfopt”

“Fvvqrcjb,cjf.fjttttcFvvqrcjbt”cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncrfyb.cnbecqkktc“Xque
ififcfpcxqucfebcrbvvcfrfebcScnf.coqgcgnbcnqoquecqkcwoqrsoa”c(pqjbqob
vfuanb.cfvqu.)c“fo.cSc.qcoqgcsogbo.cgqcgfwbcifegcsocxquecbybevfpgsoa
plufhhvbpcrsgncFjfvsfcSyfoqyofttttcScnfybc qjbcnbebcgqcpibfwcqkcjxcqro
fkkfseptttcfo.cScrfogcgqcnfybcfcrqe.crsgncxquecpgbi.fuangbe,cPqkxfttt
Syfoqyof,cScgnsowcsgcsp?cFvvqrcjbcgqcifppt”

IxqgecIbgeqysg n,cb.asoachxcnbe,crbogcgqcgnbcqiiqpsgbc qeobecrnbebcPqosf
rfpt

WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcebjfsob.cpgfo.soacrnbebcpnbcrfp,cfpcgnquan
gnuo.bepgeu wtcPnbc quv.coqgcuo.bepgfo.cnqrcIxqgecIbgeqysg nc quv.c.box
nfysoacbomqxb.cnbeckfgnbe’pcnqpisgfvsgxtcGnquancpnbcnf.csoybogb.csg
nbepbvk,cpnbchbvsbyb.csocsgcksejvxchxcgnspcgsjbtcPnbcrfpcpgeu wcgqq
hxcgnbchupsobppvswb,c.excfo.cbyboc qogbjiguqupcjbof soacgqobcqkcIxqge
Ibgeqysg ntcFvvcgnbc vfjquecaef.ufvvxc.sb.cfrfxcfgcnspcbogefo btcOqg
qovxcrfpcgnspc“pbesqupchupsobppcjfo”cpgeswsoavxcso qoaeuqupcrsgncgnb
ebpgcqkcgnbcifegx,chugcsgcrfpcbys.bog,cgqq,cgnfgcnbcnf.c qjbcuiqocpqjb
jfggbecqkc qopblubo b,cgnfgcpqjbcbd bigsqofvc fupbcjupgcnfybchequangcnsj
fo.cgnfgcgnbebkqebcpqjbgnsoacrfpcaqsoacgqcnfiibotcEfpwqvoswqy,cpgfo.soa
hbps.bcPqosf,cjqyb.cfps.bcgqcvbgcnsjcifpp;cIxqgecIbgeqysg nc.s.coqg
pbbjcgqcoqgs bcnsjtcFcjsougbcvfgbecVbhbzsfgoswqy,cgqq,cfiibfeb.csocgnb
.qqerfx;cnbc.s.coqgc qjbcso,chugcpgqq.cpgsvv,cvspgbosoacrsgncjfewb.
sogbebpg,cfvjqpgcrqo.be,cfo.cpbbjb.ckqecfcgsjbcibeivbdb.t

“Bd upbcjbckqeciqppshvxcsogbeeuigsoacxqu,chugcsg’pcfcjfggbecqk
pqjbcsjiqegfo b,”cIxqgecIbgeqysg ncqhpbeyb.,cf..ebppsoacgnbc qjifox
abobefvvxtc“Scfjcavf.cso.bb.cgqckso.cqgnbecibepqopciebpbogtcFjfvsf
Syfoqyof,cScnujhvxchbacxqucfpcjspgebppcqkcgnbcnqupbcgqcifxc febkuv
fggbogsqocgqcrnfgcScnfybcgqcpfxcgqcPqkxfcSyfoqyoftcPqkxfcSyfoqyof,”
cnbcrbogcqo,cf..ebppsoacPqosf,crnqcrfpcybexcju ncpueiespb.cfo.cfvebf.x
fvfejb.,c“sjjb.sfgbvxcfkgbecxquecyspsgcSckquo.cgnfgcfcnuo.eb.-equhvb
oqgbcrfpcjsppsoackeqjcjxcgfhvb,csocgnbceqqjcqkcjxckesbo.cJet
VbhbzsfgoswqytcSkcsocfoxcrfxcrnfgbybecxqucwoqrcfo.crsvvcgbvvcupcrnbeb
sgcspcoqr,cScfppuebcxqucqocjxcrqe.cqkcnqoquecfo.c fvvcfvvciebpbogcgq
rsgobppcgnfgcgnbcjfggbecpnfvvcbo.cgnbebtcSocgnbcqiiqpsgbc fpbcScpnfvvchb
 qjibvvb.cgqcnfybceb quepbcgqcybexcpbesqupcjbfpuebpcfo.cgnbotttcxqucjupg
hvfjbcxquepbvkt”

 qjivbgbcpsvbo bcebsaob.csocgnbceqqjtcBybocgnbc exsoac nsv.ebocrbeb
pgsvvtcPqosfcpgqq.c.bf.vxcifvb,cpgfesoacfgcVuznsocfo.cuofhvbcgqcpfxcf
rqe.tcPnbcpbbjb.coqgcgqcuo.bepgfo.tcPqjbcpb qo.pcifppb.t

“Rbvv,cnqrcspcsgcgqchbcgnbo?”cfpwb.cVuznso,cvqqwsoacsogbogvxcfgcnbet

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrttttcScwoqrcoqgnsoacfhqugcsg,”cPqosfcfegs uvfgb.ckfsogvxcfg
vfpgt

“Oq,cxqucwoqrcoqgnsoa?”cVuznsocebibfgb.cfo.cfafsocnbcifupb.ckqecpqjb
pb qo.ptc“Gnsowcfcjqjbog,cjf.bjqspbvvb,”cnbchbafocpbybebvx,chugcpgsvv,
fpcsgcrbeb,cf.jqospnsoacnbetc“Ebkvb g,cScfjciebifeb.cgqcasybcxqucgsjb
kqec qops.befgsqotcWso.vxcqhpbeybcgnsp:cskcScrbebcoqgcpqcbogsebvx
 qoyso b.cScpnquv.coqg,cxqucjfxchbcpueb,crsgncjxcbdibesbo bcyboguebcgq
f  upbcxqucpqc.seb gvxtcPbbsoacgnfgckqecpu nc.seb gcf  upfgsqochbkqeb
rsgobppbp,cskckfvpbcqecbybocjspgfwbo,cScpnquv.cjxpbvkcsocfc begfsocpbopb
hbcjf.bcebpiqopshvb,cScfjcfrfebcqkcgnfgtcGnspcjqeosoacSc nfoab.ckqe
jxcqrociueiqpbpcpbybefvcksyb-ibe- bogcpb uesgsbpckqecgnbcpujcqk
fiieqdsjfgbvxcgnebbcgnqupfo.cequhvbptcGnbcf  quogcspcoqgb.c.qrocsocjx
iq wbg-hqqwtcQocjxcebgueocnqjbcScieq bb.b.cgqc quogcgnbcjqobx--fpcJet
Vbhbzsfgoswqycrsvvchbfecrsgobpp--fo.cfkgbec quogsoacgrqcgnqupfo.cgnebb
nuo.eb.cequhvbpcSciugcgnbcebpgcsocjxciq wbg-hqqwcsocjxc qfgciq wbgt
Fhqugcksybcnuo.eb.cequhvbpcebjfsob.cqocgnbcgfhvbcfo.cfjqoacgnbjcgnebb
oqgbpcqkcfcnuo.eb.cequhvbpcbf ntcFgcgnfgcjqjbogcxqucbogbeb.c(fgcjx
soysgfgsqo)--fo.cfvvcgnbcgsjbcxqucrbebciebpbogcxqucrbebcbd bb.soavx
bjhfeefppb.;cpqcgnfgcgnebbcgsjbpcxqucmujib.cuicsocgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnb
 qoybepfgsqocfo.cgesb.cgqcjfwbcqkktcJetcVbhbzsfgoswqyc fochbfecrsgobpp
gqcgnsptcXqucxquepbvk,cjf.bjqspbvvb,cieqhfhvxcrsvvcoqgcebkupbcgqc qoksej
jxcpgfgbjbogcgnfgcScsoysgb.cxqucgnequancJetcVbhbzsfgoswqy,cpqvbvxcso
qe.becgqc.sp uppcrsgncxqucgnbcnqibvbppcfo.c.bpgsgugbciqpsgsqocqkcxque
ebvfgsyb,cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofc(rnqpbc.soobecScrfpcuofhvbcgqcfggbo.),
fo.cgnbcf.yspfhsvsgxcqkcabggsoacuicpqjbgnsoacqkcgnbcofguebcqkcf
puhp esigsqo,cvqggbexcqecgnbcvswb,ckqecnbechbobksgtcXqucgnfowb.cjbcfo.
bybocpnb.cgbfeptcSc.bp eshbcfvvcgnspcfpcsgcgqqwcivf b,ciesjfesvxcgq
eb fvvcsgcgqcxquecjso.cfo.cpb qo.vxcgqcpnqrcxqucgnfgcoqgcgnbcpvsangbpg
.bgfsvcnfpcbp fib.cjxceb qvvb gsqotcGnbocScgqqwcfcgbo-equhvbcoqgbckeqj
gnbcgfhvbcfo.cnfo.b.csgcgqcxquchxcrfxcqkcksepgcsopgfvjbogcqocjxcifeg
kqecgnbchbobksgcqkcxquecebvfgsybtcJetcVbhbzsfgoswqycpfrcfvvcgnsptcGnbo
Scf  qjifosb.cxqucgqcgnbc.qqe--xquchbsoacpgsvvcsocgnbcpfjbcpgfgbcqk
bjhfeefppjbog--fkgbecrns n,chbsoacvbkgcfvqobcrsgncJetcVbhbzsfgoswqycS
gfvwb.cgqcnsjckqecgbocjsougbp--gnbocJetcVbhbzsfgoswqycrbogcqugcfo.cS
ebgueob.cgqcgnbcgfhvbcrsgncgnbcjqobxcvxsoacqocsg,csogbo.soacgqc quog
sgcfo.cgqciugcsgcfps.b,cfpcScieqiqpb.c.qsoachbkqebtcGqcjxcpueiespbcqob
nuo.eb.-equhvbcoqgbcnf.c.spfiibfeb.tcWso.vxc qops.becgnbciqpsgsqot
JetcVbhbzsfgoswqycSc fooqgcpupib gtcScfjcfpnfjb.cgqcfvvu.bcgqcpu n
fcpuiiqpsgsqotcSc fooqgcnfybcjf.bcfcjspgfwbcsocjxceb wqosoa,ckqecgnb
jsougbchbkqebcxquecbogefo bcScnf.cksospnb.cjxcf  quogpcfo.ckquo.cgnb
gqgfvc qeeb gtcXqucrsvvcf.jsgcgnfgceb qvvb gsoacxquecbjhfeefppjbog,cxque
bfabeobppcgqcabgcfrfxcfo.cgnbckf gcgnfgcxqucwbigcxquecnfo.pckqecpqjb
gsjbcqocgnbcgfhvb,cfo.cgfwsoacsogqc qops.befgsqocxquecpq sfvciqpsgsqo
fo.cgnbcnfhsgpcfppq sfgb.crsgncsg,cScrfp,cpqcgqcpfx,crsgncnqeeqecfo.
iqpsgsybvxcfafsopgcjxcrsvv,c_ qjibvvb._cgqcbogbegfsocfcpupis sqo--f
 eubv,chugcmupgsksfhvbcpupis sqo!cScrsvvcf..ckuegnbecfo.cebibfgcgnfgcso
pisgbcqkcjxciqpsgsybc qoys gsqo,cScebfvspbcgnfgcSceuocfc begfsocespwcso
jfwsoacgnspcf  upfgsqo,chugcfpcxqucpbb,cSc quv.coqgcvbgcsgcifpptcScnfyb
gfwbocf gsqocfo.cScrsvvcgbvvcxqucrnx:cpqvbvx,cjf.fj,cpqvbvx,cqrsoa
gqcxquechvf wcsoaefgsgu.b!cRnx!cScsoysgbcxquckqecgnbchbobksgcqkcxque
.bpgsgugbcebvfgsyb,cSciebpbogcxqucrsgncjxc.qofgsqocqkcgbocequhvbpcfo.
xqu,cqocgnbcpiqg,cebifxcjbckqecfvvcgnfgcrsgncpu ncfocf gsqotcSgcspcgqq
hf.!cXqucobb.cfcvbppqotcEbkvb g!cJqebqybe,cvswbcfcgeubckesbo.cSchba
xqu--fo.cxquc quv.cnfybcoqchbggbeckesbo.cfgcgnspcjqjbog--gnsowcrnfgcxqu
febc.qsoa,cqgnberspbcScpnfvvchbcsjjqyfhvb!cRbvv,crnfgc.qcxqucpfx?”

“Scnfybcgfwbocoqgnsoa,”cPqosfcrnspibeb.csocgbeeqe,c“xqucafybcjbcgbo
equhvbp,cnbebcsgcsp,cgfwbcsgt”

Pqosfciuvvb.cnbecnfo.wbe nsbkcqugcqkcnbeciq wbg,cuogsb.cfc qeobecqkcsg,
gqqwcqugcgnbcgbo-equhvbcoqgbcfo.cafybcsgcgqcVuznsot

“Fo.cgnbcnuo.eb.cequhvbpcxquc.qcoqgc qokbppcgqcgfwsoa?”cnbcsopspgb.
ebieqf nkuvvx,coqgcgfwsoacgnbcoqgbt

Pqosfcvqqwb.cfhqugcnbetcFvvcrbebcvqqwsoacfgcnbecrsgncpu ncfrkuv,cpgbeo,
seqos fv,cnqpgsvbcbxbptcPnbcvqqwb.cfgcEfpwqvoswqytttcnbcpgqq.cfafsopg
gnbcrfvv,crsgncnspcfejpc eqppb.,cvqqwsoacfgcnbecrsgncavqrsoacbxbpt

“Aqq.cAq.!”cheqwbckeqjcPqosft

“FjfvsfcSyfoqyof,crbcpnfvvcnfybcgqcpbo.crqe.cgqcgnbciqvs bcfo.cgnbebkqeb
Scnujhvxchbacxqucjbfornsvbcgqcpbo.ckqecgnbcnqupbciqegbe,”cVuznsocpfs.
pqkgvxcfo.cbybocwso.vxt

“_Aqggc.becHfejnbezsab_!cScwobrcpnbcrfpcgnbcgnsbk,”c esb.cFjfvsf
Syfoqyof,cgneqrsoacuicnbecnfo.pt

“Xqucwobrcsg?”cVuznsoc fuangcnbecui,c“gnbocScpuiiqpbcxqucnf.cpqjbcebfpqo
hbkqebcgnspckqecgnsowsoacpqtcSchbacxqu,crqegnxcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof,cgq
ebjbjhbecxquecrqe.pcrns ncnfybchbbocuggbeb.chbkqebcrsgobppbpt”

Gnbebcrfpcfchuzzcqkcvqu.c qoybepfgsqocqocfvvcps.bptcFvvcrbebcso
jqybjbogt

“Rnfg!”c esb.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cpu..bovxcebfvspsoacgnbciqpsgsqo,cfo.
pnbceupnb.cfgcVuznsotc“Rnfg!cXqucf  upbcnbecqkcpgbfvsoa?cPqosf?cFn,cgnb
rebg nbp,cgnbcrebg nbp!”

Fo.ceuoosoacgqcPqosfcpnbckvuoacnbecrfpgb.cfejpcequo.cnbecfo.cnbv.cnbecfp
socfcyspbt

“Pqosf!cnqrc.feb.cxqucgfwbcgbocequhvbpckeqjcnsj?cKqqvspncasev!cAsybcsg
gqcjb!cAsybcjbcgnbcgbocequhvbpcfgcqo b--nbeb!”

Fo.cpofg nsoacgnbcoqgbckeqjcPqosf,cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofc eujivb.csgcuicfo.
kvuoacsgcpgefsangcsogqcVuznso’pckf btcSgcnsgcnsjcsocgnbcbxbcfo.ckbvv
qocgnbcaequo.tcFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcnfpgbob.cgqcis wcsgcuitcIxqgecIbgeqysg n
vqpgcnspcgbjibet

“Nqv.cgnfgcjf.crqjfo!”cnbcpnqugb.t

Fgcgnfgcjqjbogcpbybefvcqgnbecibepqop,chbps.bpcVbhbzsfgoswqy,cfiibfeb.cso
gnbc.qqerfx,cfjqoacgnbjcgnbcgrqcvf.sbpt

“Rnfg!cJf.?cFjcScjf.?cS.sqg!”cpnesbwb.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyoftc“Xqucfebcfo
s.sqgcxquepbvk,cibggskqaasoacvfrxbe,chfpbcjfo!cPqosf,cPqosfcgfwbcnsp
jqobx!cPqosfcfcgnsbk!cRnx,cpnb’.casybcfrfxcnbecvfpgciboox!”cfo.cWfgbesof
Syfoqyofcheqwbcsogqcnxpgbes fvcvfuangbetc“.s.cxqucbybecpbbcpu ncfo
s.sqg?”cpnbcgueob.ckeqjcps.bcgqcps.btc“Fo.cxqucgqq?”cpnbcpu..bovxcpfr
gnbcvfo.vf.x,c“fo.cxqucgqq,cpfupfabcbfgbe,cxquc.b vfebcgnfgcpnbcspcf
gnsbk,cxqucgefpnxcIeuppsfocnbo’pcvbacsocfc esoqvsob!cPnbcnfpo’gchbbo
qugcqkcgnspceqqj:cpnbc fjbcpgefsangckeqjcxqu,cxqucrebg n,cfo.cpfgc.qro
hbps.bcjb,cbybexqobcpfrcnbetcPnbcpfgcnbeb,chxcEq.sqocEqjfoqysg ntcPbfe n
nbe!cPso bcpnb’pcoqgcvbkgcgnbceqqj,cgnbcjqobxcrquv.cnfybcgqchbcqocnbe!
Pbfe ncnbe,cpbfe ncnbe!cHugcskcxquc.qo’gckso.csg,cgnbocbd upbcjb,cjx
.bfeckbvvqr,cxqu’vvcfoprbeckqecsg!cS’vvcaqcgqcquecPqybebsao,cgqcque
Pqybebsao,cgqcquecaef squpcGpfecnsjpbvk,cfo.cgneqrcjxpbvkcfgcnspckbbg,
gq-.fx,cgnspcjsougb!cScfjcfvqobcsocgnbcrqev.!cGnbxcrquv.cvbgcjbcso!c.q
xqucgnsowcgnbxcrquv.o’g?cXqu’ebcreqoa,cScrsvvcabgcso!cScrsvvcabgcso!
Xquceb wqob.cqocnbecjbbwobpp!cXqucebvsb.cuiqocgnfg!cHugcScfjcoqgcpq
puhjsppsyb,cvbgcjbcgbvvcxqu!cXqu’ybcaqobcgqqckfecxquepbvktcPbfe ncnbe,
pbfe ncnbe!”

Fo.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcsocfckebozxcpnqqwcVuznsocfo.c.efaab.cnsjcgqrfe.p
Pqosft

“Scfjcebf.x,cS’vvchbcebpiqopshvbtttchugc fvjcxquepbvk,cjf.fj,c fvj
xquepbvktcScpbbcgnfgcxqucfebcoqgcpqcpuhjsppsyb!tttcRbvv,crbvv,chugcfpcgq
gnfgttt”cVuznsocjuggbeb.,c“gnfgcquangcgqchbchbkqebcgnbciqvs btttcgnquan
so.bb.cgnbebcfebcrsgobppbpcboquancfpcsgcspttttcScfjcebf.xttttcHugcso
foxc fpbcsg’pc.skks uvgckqecfcjfotttcqocf  quogcqkcnbecpbdttttcHugcrsgn
gnbcnbvicqkcFjfvsfcSyfoqyoftttcgnquan,cqkc quepb,csg’pcoqgcgnbcrfxcgqc.q
gnsoapttttcNqrcspcsgcgqchbc.qob?”

“Fpcxqucrsvv!cVbgcfoxqobcrnqcvswbpcpbfe ncnbe!”c esb.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyoft
“Pqosf,cgueocqugcxqueciq wbgp!cPbb!cVqqw,cjqopgbe,cgnbciq wbgcspcbjigx,
nbebcrfpcnbecnfo.wbe nsbk!cNbebcspcgnbcqgnbeciq wbg,cvqqw!c.’xqucpbb,
.’xqucpbb?”

Fo.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcgueob.--qecefgnbecpofg nb.--hqgnciq wbgpcsops.b
qugtcHugckeqjcgnbcesangciq wbgcfcisb bcqkcifibeckvbrcqugcfo.c.bp eshsoa
fcifefhqvfcsocgnbcfseckbvvcfgcVuznso’pckbbgtcBybexqobcpfrcsg,cpbybefv
 esb.cqugtcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncpgqqib.c.qro,cis wb.cuicgnbcifibecsocgrq
ksoabep,cvskgb.csgcrnbebcfvvc quv.cpbbcsgcfo.cqibob.csgtcSgcrfpcf
nuo.eb.-equhvbcoqgbckqv.b.csocbsangtcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncnbv.cuicgnbcoqgb
pnqrsoacsgcgqcbybexqobt

“Gnsbk!cQugcqkcjxcvq.asoatcIqvs b,ciqvs b!”cxbvvb.cFjfvsfcSyfoqyoft
“GnbxcjupgcgqcPshbesfchbcpbog!cFrfx!”

Bd vfjfgsqopcfeqpbcqocfvvcps.bptcEfpwqvoswqycrfpcpsvbog,cwbbisoacnsp
bxbpcksdb.cqocPqosf,cbd bigckqecfocq  fpsqofvcefis.cavfo bcfgcVuznsot
Pqosfcpgqq.cpgsvv,cfpcgnquancuo qop squptcPnbcrfpcnfe.vxcfhvbcgqckbbv
pueiespbtcPu..bovxcgnbc qvqueceupnb.cgqcnbec nbbwp;cpnbcuggbeb.cfc ex
fo.cns.cnbeckf bcsocnbecnfo.pt

“Oq,csgcrfpo’gcS!cSc.s.o’gcgfwbcsg!cScwoqrcoqgnsoacfhqugcsg,”cpnbc esb.
rsgncfcnbfegebo.soacrfsv,cfo.cpnbcefocgqcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,crnqc vfpib.
nbecgsangvxcsocnbecfejp,cfpcgnquancpnbcrquv.cpnbvgbecnbeckeqjcfvvcgnb
rqev.t

“Pqosf!cPqosf!cSc.qo’gchbvsbybcsg!cXqucpbb,cSc.qo’gchbvsbybcsg!”cpnb
 esb.csocgnbckf bcqkcgnbcqhysqupckf g,cprfxsoacnbecgqcfo.ckeqcsocnbe
fejpcvswbcfchfhx,cwsppsoacnbeckf bc qogsoufvvx,cgnbocpofg nsoacfgcnbe
nfo.pcfo.cwsppsoacgnbj,cgqq,c“xqucgqqwcsg!cNqrcpguis.cgnbpbcibqivbcfeb!
Qnc.bfe!cXqucfebckqqvp,ckqqvp,”cpnbc esb.,cf..ebppsoacgnbcrnqvbceqqj,
“xquc.qo’gcwoqr,cxquc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcfcnbfegcpnbcnfp,crnfgcfcasevcpnb
sp!cPnbcgfwbcsg,cpnb?cPnb’.cpbvvcnbecvfpgcefa,cpnb’.caqchfebkqqgcgqcnbvi
xqucskcxqucobb.b.csg,cgnfg’pcrnfgcpnbcsp!cPnbcnfpcgnbcxbvvqrcifppiqeg
hb fupbcjxc nsv.ebocrbebcpgfeysoa,cpnbcpqv.cnbepbvkckqecup!cFn,cnuphfo.,
nuphfo.!c.qcxqucpbb?c.qcxqucpbb?cRnfgcfcjbjqesfvc.soobeckqecxqu!
Jbe skuvcnbfybop!c.bkbo.cnbe,crnxcfebcxqucfvvcpgfo.soacpgsvv?cEq.sqo
Eqjfoqysg n,crnxc.qo’gcxqucpgfo.cuickqecnbe?c.qcxquchbvsbybcsg,cgqq?cXqu
febcoqgcrqegncnbecvsggvbcksoabe,cfvvcqkcxqucgqabgnbe!cAqq.cAq.!c.bkbo.
nbecoqr,cfgcvbfpg!”

Gnbcrfsvcqkcgnbciqqe,c qopujigsyb,cnbvivbppcrqjfocpbbjb.cgqcieq.u bcf
aebfgcbkkb gcqocnbecfu.sbo btcGnbcfaqospb.,crfpgb.,c qopujigsybckf b,
gnbcife nb.chvqq.-pgfsob.cvsip,cgnbcnqfepbcyqs b,cgnbcgbfepcuoebpgefsob.
fpcfc nsv.’p,cgnbcgeupgkuv,c nsv.spncfo.cxbgc.bpifsesoaciefxbeckqecnbvi
rbebcpqcisgbqupcgnfgcbybexqobcpbbjb.cgqckbbvckqecnbetcIxqgecIbgeqysg n
fgcfoxcefgbcrfpcfgcqo bcjqyb.cgqc_ qjifppsqo_t

“Jf.fj,cjf.fj,cgnspcso s.bogc.qbpcoqgcebkvb gcuiqocxqu!”cnbc esb.
sjiebppsybvx,c“oqcqobcrquv.cgfwbcuiqocnsjpbvkcgqcf  upbcxqucqkchbsoacfo
sopgsafgqecqecbybocfocf  qjivs bcsocsg,cbpib sfvvxcfpcxqucnfybcieqyb.
nbecausvgchxcgueosoacqugcnbeciq wbgp,cpnqrsoacgnfgcxqucnf.coqciebysqup
s.bfcqkcsgtcScfjcjqpgcebf.x,cjqpgcebf.xcgqcpnqrc qjifppsqo,cskciqybegx,
pqcgqcpibfw,c.eqybcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcgqcsg,chugcrnxc.s.cxqucebkupbcgq
 qokbpp,cjf.bjqspbvvb?cRbebcxqucfkefs.cqkcgnbc.spaef b?cGnbcksepgcpgbi?
Xqucvqpgcxquecnbf.,cibenfip?cQobc foclusgbcuo.bepgfo.csgttttcHugcnqr
 quv.cxqucnfybcvqrbeb.cxquepbvkcgqcpu ncfocf gsqo?cAbogvbjbo,”cnb
f..ebppb.cgnbcrnqvbc qjifox,c“abogvbjbo!c qjifppsqofgbcfo.,cpqcgqcpfx,
 qjjspbefgsoacgnbpbcibqivb,cScfjcebf.xcgqcqybevqqwcsgcbybocoqrcsocpisgb
qkcgnbcibepqofvcsopuvgcvfyspnb.cuiqocjb!cFo.cjfxcgnspc.spaef bchbcf
vbppqocgqcxquckqecgnbckugueb,”cnbcpfs.,cf..ebppsoacPqosf,c“fo.cScrsvv
 feexcgnbcjfggbecoqckuegnbetcBoquan!”

IxqgecIbgeqysg ncpgqvbcfcavfo bcfgcEfpwqvoswqytcGnbsecbxbpcjbg,cfo.cgnb
ksebcsocEfpwqvoswqy’pcpbbjb.cebf.xcgqceb.u bcnsjcgqcfpnbptcJbfornsvb
WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfiifebogvxcnbfe.coqgnsoatcPnbcrfpcwsppsoacfo.cnuaasoa
Pqosfcvswbcfcjf.rqjfotcGnbc nsv.ebo,cgqq,crbebcbjhef soacPqosfcqo
fvvcps.bp,cfo.cIqvbowf--gnquancpnbc.s.coqgckuvvxcuo.bepgfo.crnfgcrfp
reqoa--rfpc.eqrob.csocgbfepcfo.cpnfwsoacrsgncpqhp,cfpcpnbcns.cnbeciebggx
vsggvbckf b,cprqvvbocrsgncrbbisoa,cqocPqosf’pcpnquv.bet

“Nqrcysvb!”cfcvqu.cyqs bc esb.cpu..bovxcsocgnbc.qqerfxt

IxqgecIbgeqysg ncvqqwb.cequo.clus wvxt

“Rnfgcysvbobpp!”cVbhbzsfgoswqycebibfgb.,cpgfesoacnsjcpgefsangcsocgnb
kf bt

IxqgecIbgeqysg ncafybcfciqpsgsybcpgfeg--fvvcoqgs b.csgcfo.ceb fvvb.csg
fkgberfe.ptcVbhbzsfgoswqycpgeq.bcsogqcgnbceqqjt

“Fo.cxquc.feb.cgqc fvvcjbcfpcrsgobpp?”cnbcpfs.,caqsoacuicgqcIxqge
Ibgeqysg nt

“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfo?cRnfgcfebcxqucgfvwsoacfhqug?”cjuggbeb.cVuznsot

“Scjbfocgnfgcxqutttcfebcfcpvfo.bebe,cgnfg’pcrnfgcjxcrqe.pcjbfo!”
cVbhbzsfgoswqycpfs.cnqgvx,cvqqwsoacpgbeovxcfgcnsjcrsgncnspcpnqeg-psangb.
bxbpt

NbcrfpcbdgebjbvxcfoaextcEfpwqvoswqycafzb.csogbogvxcfgcnsj,cfpcgnquan
pbszsoacfo.crbsansoacbf ncrqe.tcFafsocgnbebcrfpcfcpsvbo btcIxqge
Ibgeqysg ncso.bb.cpbbjb.cfvjqpgc.ujhkquo.b.ckqecgnbcksepgcjqjbogt

“Skcxqucjbfocgnfgckqecjb,ttt”cnbchbafo,cpgfjjbesoatc“Hugcrnfg’pcgnb
jfggbecrsgncxqu?cFebcxqucqugcqkcxquecjso.?”

“S’jcsocjxcjso.,chugcxqucfebcfcp quo.ebv!cFn,cnqrcysvb!cScnfybcnbfe.
bybexgnsoatcScwbigcrfsgsoacqociueiqpbcgqcuo.bepgfo.csg,ckqecScjupgcqro
bybocoqrcsgcspcoqgclusgbcvqas fvttttcRnfgcxqucnfybc.qobcsgcfvvckqecS
 fo’gcuo.bepgfo.t”

“Rnx,crnfgcnfybcSc.qobcgnbo?cAsybcqybecgfvwsoacsocxquecoqopbops fv
es..vbp!cQecjfxhbcxqucfebc.euow!”

“Xqucjfxchbcfc.euowfe.,cibenfip,cysvbcjfo,chugcScfjcoqg!cScobybecgqu n
yq.wf,ckqecsg’pcfafsopgcjxc qoys gsqoptcRquv.cxquchbvsbybcsg,cnb,cnb
nsjpbvk,crsgncnspcqrocnfo.pcafybcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcgnfgcnuo.eb.-equhvb
oqgb--Scpfrcsg,cScrfpcfcrsgobpp,cS’vvcgfwbcjxcqfgn!cNbc.s.csg,cnb!”
cebibfgb.cVbhbzsfgoswqy,cf..ebppsoacfvvt

“Febcxquc efzx,cjsvwpqi?”cplubfvb.cVuznsotc“Pnbcspcnbepbvkchbkqeb
xqu--pnbcnbepbvkcnbebc.b vfeb.cmupgcoqrchbkqebcbybexqobcgnfgcScafybcnbe
qovxcgbocequhvbptcNqrc quv.cScnfybcasybocsgcgqcnbe?”

“Scpfrcsg,cScpfrcsg,”cVbhbzsfgoswqycebibfgb.,c“fo.cgnquancsgcspcfafsopg
jxcieso sivbp,cScfjcebf.xcgnspcybexcjsougbcgqcgfwbcfoxcqfgncxqucvswb
hbkqebcgnbc queg,ckqecScpfrcnqrcxqucpvsiib.csgcsocnbeciq wbgtcQovx
vswbcfckqqvcScgnquangcxquc.s.csgcqugcqkcwso.obpp!cRnbocxqucrbebcpfxsoa
aqq.-hxbcgqcnbecfgcgnbc.qqe,crnsvbcxqucnbv.cnbecnfo.csocqobcnfo.,crsgn
gnbcqgnbe,cgnbcvbkg,cxqucpvsiib.cgnbcoqgbcsogqcnbeciq wbgtcScpfrcsg,cS
pfrcsg!”

Vuznsocgueob.cifvbt

“Rnfgcvsbp!”cnbc esb.csjiu.bogvx,c“rnx,cnqrc quv.cxqu,cpgfo.soachxcgnb
rso.qr,cpbbcgnbcoqgb?cXquckfo sb.csgcrsgncxquecpnqeg-psangb.cbxbptcXqu
febcefysoa!”

“Oq,cSc.s.o’gckfo xcsgtcFo.cgnquancScrfpcpgfo.soacpqjbcrfxcqkk,cScpfr
sgcfvvtcFo.cgnquancsgc begfsovxcrquv.chbcnfe.cgqc.spgsoauspncfcoqgbckeqj
gnbcrso.qr--gnfg’pcgeub--Scwobrckqec begfsocgnfgcsgcrfpcfcnuo.eb.-equhvb
oqgb,chb fupb,crnbocxqucrbebcaqsoacgqcasybcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcgbocequhvbp,
xqucgqqwcuickeqjcgnbcgfhvbcfcnuo.eb.-equhvbcoqgbc(Scpfrcsgchb fupbcS
rfpcpgfo.soacobfecgnbo,cfo.cfocs.bfcpgeu wcjbcfgcqo b,cpqcgnfgcSc.s.coqg
kqeabgcxqucnf.csgcsocxquecnfo.)tcXquckqv.b.csgcfo.cwbigcsgcsocxquecnfo.
fvvcgnbcgsjbtcSc.s.o’gcgnsowcqkcsgcfafsocuogsv,crnbocxqucrbebcabggsoa
ui,cxquc nfoab.csgckeqjcxquecesangcnfo.cgqcxquecvbkgcfo.cobfevxc.eqiib.
sg!cScoqgs b.csgchb fupbcgnbcpfjbcs.bfcpgeu wcjbcfafso,cgnfgcxqucjbfog
gqc.qcnbecfcwso.obppcrsgnqugcjxcpbbsoatcXquc fockfo xcnqrcScrfg nb.cxqu
fo.cScpfrcnqrcxqucpu  bb.b.csocpvsiisoacsgcsogqcnbeciq wbgtcScpfrcsg,cS
pfrcsg,cS’vvcgfwbcjxcqfgnt”

VbhbzsfgoswqycrfpcfvjqpgchebfgnvbpptcBd vfjfgsqopcfeqpbcqocfvvcnfo.p
 nsbkvxcbdiebppsybcqkcrqo.be,chugcpqjbcrbebcjbof soacsocgqobtcGnbxcfvv
 eqr.b.cequo.cIxqgecIbgeqysg ntcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofckvbrcgqcVbhbzsfgoswqyt

“Scrfpcjspgfwbocsocxqu!cIeqgb gcnbe!cXqucfebcgnbcqovxcqobcgqcgfwbcnbe
ifeg!cPnbcspcfocqeinfotcAq.cnfpcpbogcxqu!”

WfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cnfe.vxcwoqrsoacrnfgcpnbcrfpc.qsoa,cpfowcqocnbecwobbp
hbkqebcnsjt

“Fcif wcqkcoqopbopb!”cxbvvb.cVuznso,cequpb.cgqckuex,c“sg’pcfvvcoqopbopb
xqu’ybchbbocgfvwsoa!c‘Focs.bfcpgeu wcxqu,cxquc.s.o’gcgnsow,cxqu
oqgs b.’--rnfgc.qbpcsgcfjquogcgq?cPqcScafybcsgcgqcnbecqocgnbcpvxcqo
iueiqpb?cRnfgckqe?cRsgncrnfgcqhmb g?cRnfgcnfybcScgqc.qcrsgncgnspttt?”

“Rnfgckqe?cGnfg’pcrnfgcSc fo’gcuo.bepgfo.,chugcgnfgcrnfgcScfjcgbvvsoa
xqucspcgnbckf g,cgnfg’pc begfso!cPqckfeckeqjcjxchbsoacjspgfwbo,cxqu
sokfjqupc esjsofvcjfo,cScebjbjhbecnqr,cqocf  quogcqkcsg,cfclubpgsqo
q  ueeb.cgqcjbcfgcqo b,cmupgcrnbocScrfpcgnfowsoacxqucfo.ciebppsoa
xquecnfo.tcRnfgcjf.bcxquciugcsgcpb ebgvxcsocnbeciq wbg?cRnxcxquc.s.csg
pb ebgvx,cScjbfo?c quv.csgchbcpsjivxcgqc qo bfvcsgckeqjcjb,cwoqrsoacgnfg
jxc qoys gsqopcfebcqiiqpb.cgqcxquepcfo.cgnfgcSc.qcoqgcfiieqybcqkciesyfgb
hbobyqvbo b,crns ncbkkb gpcoqcef.s fvc ueb?cRbvv,cSc.b s.b.cgnfgcxqu
ebfvvxcrbebcfpnfjb.cqkcasysoacpu ncfcvfeabcpujchbkqebcjbtcIbenfip,
gqq,cScgnquang,cnbcrfogpcgqcasybcnbecfcpueiespb,crnbocpnbckso.pcfcrnqvb
nuo.eb.-equhvbcoqgbcsocnbeciq wbgtc(KqecScwoqr,cpqjbchbobyqvbogcibqivb
febcybexckqo.cqkc.b wsoacqugcgnbsec nfesgfhvbcf gsqopcsocgnfgcrfxt)cGnbo
gnbcs.bfcpgeu wcjb,cgqq,cgnfgcxqucrfogb.cgqcgbpgcnbe,cgqcpbbcrnbgnbe,
rnbocpnbckquo.csg,cpnbcrquv.c qjbcgqcgnfowcxqutcGnbo,cgqq,cgnfgcxqu
rfogb.cgqcfyqs.cgnfowpcfo.cgnfg,cfpcgnbcpfxsoacsp,cxquecesangcnfo.
pnquv.coqgcwoqrtttcpqjbgnsoacqkcgnfgcpqeg,csockf gtcScgnquangcqkcpq
jfoxciqppshsvsgsbpcgnfgcSciugcqkkc qops.besoacsg,chugcpgsvvcgnquangcsg
so.bvs fgbcgqcpnqrcxqucgnfgcScwobrcxquecpb ebgtcHugcfoqgnbecs.bfcpgeu w
jbcfafsocgnfgcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcjsangcbfpsvxcvqpbcgnbcjqobxchbkqebcpnb
oqgs b.csg,cgnfgcrfpcrnxcSc.b s.b.cgqc qjbcsocnbebcgqc fvvcnbecqugcqk
gnbceqqjcfo.cgqcgbvvcnbecgnfgcxquciugcfcnuo.eb.cequhvbpcsocnbeciq wbgt
HugcqocjxcrfxcScrbogcksepgcgqcJf.fjbcWqhsvfgoswqy’pcgqcgfwbcgnbjcgnb
‘AbobefvcGebfgspbcqocgnbcIqpsgsybcJbgnq.’cfo.cbpib sfvvxcgqceb qjjbo.
Is.besg’pcfegs vbc(fo.cfvpqcRfaobe’p);cgnbocSc qjbcqocnbebcfo.crnfgcf
pgfgbcqkcgnsoapcSckso.!cOqrc quv.cS,c quv.cS,cnfybcfvvcgnbpbcs.bfpcfo.
ebkvb gsqopcskcScnf.coqgcpbbocxquciugcgnbcnuo.eb.-equhvbcoqgbcsocnbe
iq wbg?”

RnbocVbhbzsfgoswqycksospnb.cnspcvqoa-rso.b.cnfefoaubcrsgncgnbcvqas fv
.b.u gsqocfgcgnbcbo.,cnbcrfpclusgbcgseb.,cfo.cgnbcibepisefgsqocpgebfjb.
keqjcnspckf btcNbc quv.coqg,cfvfp,cbybocbdiebppcnsjpbvkc qeeb gvx
socEuppsfo,cgnquancnbcwobrcoqcqgnbecvfoaufab,cpqcgnfgcnbcrfpclusgb
bdnfupgb.,cfvjqpgcbjf sfgb.cfkgbecgnspcnbeqs cbdivqsgtcHugcnspcpibb n
ieq.u b.cfciqrbekuvcbkkb gtcNbcnf.cpiqwbocrsgncpu ncybnbjbo b,crsgncpu n
 qoys gsqocgnfgcbybexqobcqhysqupvxchbvsbyb.cnsjtcIxqgecIbgeqysg nckbvg
gnfgcgnsoapcrbebcaqsoachf.vxcrsgncnsjt

“Rnfgcspcsgcgqc.qcrsgncjbcskcpsvvxcs.bfpc.s.cq  uecgqcxqu?”cnbcpnqugb.,
“gnfg’pcoqcbys.bo btcXqucjfxcnfybc.ebfjgcsg,cgnfg’pcfvv!cFo.cScgbvvcxqu,
xqucfebcvxsoa,cpsetcXqucfebcvxsoacfo.cpvfo.besoackeqjcpqjbcpisgbcfafsopg
jb,cpsjivxckeqjcislub,chb fupbcSc.s.coqgcfaebbcrsgncxqueckebb-gnsowsoa,
aq.vbpp,cpq sfvcieqiqpsgsqop!”

Hugcgnspcebgqegc.s.coqgchbobksgcIxqgecIbgeqysg ntcJuejuepcqkc.spfiieqyfv
rbebcnbfe.cqocfvvcps.bpt

“Fn,cgnfg’pcxquecvsobcoqr,cspcsg!”c esb.cVbhbzsfgoswqy,c“gnfg’p
oqopbopb!c fvvcgnbciqvs bcfo.cS’vvcgfwbcjxcqfgn!cGnbeb’pcqovxcqobcgnsoa
Sc fo’gcuo.bepgfo.:crnfgcjf.bcnsjcespwcpu ncfc qogbjigshvbcf gsqotcQn,
isgskuv,c.bpis fhvbcjfo!”

“Sc focbdivfsocrnxcnbcespwb.cpu ncfocf gsqo,cfo.cskcob bppfex,cS,cgqq,
rsvvcprbfecgqcsg,”cEfpwqvoswqycpfs.cfgcvfpgcsocfcksejcyqs b,cfo.cnb
pgbiib.ckqerfe.t

Nbcfiibfeb.cgqchbcksejcfo.c qjiqpb.tcBybexqobckbvgc vbfevx,ckeqjcgnb
ybexcvqqwcqkcnsjcgnfgcnbcebfvvxcwobrcfhqugcsgcfo.cgnfgcgnbcjxpgbexcrquv.
hbcpqvyb.t

“OqrcSc focbdivfsocsgcfvvcgqcjxpbvk,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,cf..ebppsoa
Vbhbzsfgoswqytc“Keqjcgnbcybexchbasoosoacqkcgnbchupsobpp,cScpupib gb.
gnfgcgnbebcrfpcpqjbcp quo.ebvvxcsogesaubcfgcgnbchqggqjcqkcsgtcSchbafo
gqcpupib gcsgckeqjcpqjbcpib sfvc se ujpgfo bpcwoqrocgqcjbcqovx,crns n
Scrsvvcbdivfsocfgcqo bcgqcbybexqob:cgnbxcf  quogckqecbybexgnsoatcXque
yfvufhvbcbys.bo bcnfpcksofvvxcjf.bcbybexgnsoac vbfecgqcjbtcSchbacfvv,
fvvcgqcvspgbotcGnspcabogvbjfoc(nbciqsogb.cgqcVuznso)crfpceb bogvx
boafab.cgqchbcjfeesb.cgqcfcxquoacvf.x--jxcpspgbe,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof
EfpwqvoswqytcHugc qjsoacgqcIbgbephueacnbclufeebvvb.crsgncjb,cgnbc.fx
hbkqebcxbpgbe.fx,cfgcquecksepgcjbbgsoacfo.cSc.eqybcnsjcqugcqkcjxceqqj--S
nfybcgrqcrsgobppbpcgqcieqybcsgtcNbcspcfcybexcpisgbkuvcjfottttcGnbc.fx
hbkqebcxbpgbe.fxcSc.s.coqgcwoqrcgnfgcnbcrfpcpgfxsoacnbeb,csocxqueceqqj,
fo.cgnfgc qopblubogvxcqocgnbcybexc.fxcrbclufeebvvb.--gnbc.fxchbkqeb
xbpgbe.fx--nbcpfrcjbcasybcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcpqjbcjqobxckqecgnbckuobefv,
fpcfckesbo.cqkcgnbcvfgbcJetcJfejbvf.qytcNbcfgcqo bcreqgbcfcoqgbcgq
jxcjqgnbecfo.csokqejb.cnbecgnfgcScnf.casybocfrfxcfvvcjxcjqobx,coqg
gqcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofchugcgqcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cfo.cebkbeeb.csocfcjqpg
 qogbjigshvbcrfxcgqcgnbtttc nfef gbecqkcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cgnfgcsp,
nsogb.cfgcgnbc nfef gbecqkcjxcfggsgu.bcgqcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyoftcFvvcgnspcxqu
uo.bepgfo.crfpcrsgncgnbcqhmb gcqkc.sys.soacjbckeqjcjxcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbe,
hxcsopsoufgsoacgnfgcScrfpcplufo.besoacqocuorqegnxcqhmb gpcgnbcjqobx
rns ncgnbxcnf.cpbogcjbcfo.crns ncrfpcfvvcgnbxcnf.tcXbpgbe.fxcbybosoa,
hbkqebcjxcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbecfo.csocnspciebpbo b,cSc.b vfeb.cgnfgcScnf.
asybocgnbcjqobxcgqcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofckqecgnbckuobefvcfo.coqgcgqcPqkxf
Pbjxqoqyofcfo.cgnfgcScnf.coqcf lufsogfo bcrsgncPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcfo.cnf.
obybecpbbocnbechbkqeb,cso.bb.tcFgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcScf..b.cgnfgcnb,
IxqgecIbgeqysg ncVuznso,crsgncfvvcnspcysegubp,crfpcoqgcrqegncPqkxf
Pbjxqoqyof’pcvsggvbcksoabe,cgnquancnbcpiqwbcpqcsvvcqkcnbetcGqcnsp
lubpgsqo--rquv.cScvbgcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcpsgc.qrochbps.bcjxcpspgbe,cS
foprbeb.cgnfgcScnf.cfvebf.xc.qobcpqcgnfgc.fxtcSeesgfgb.cgnfgcjxcjqgnbe
fo.cpspgbecrbebcuorsvvsoacgqclufeebvcrsgncjbcfgcnspcsopsoufgsqop,cnb
aef.ufvvxchbafochbsoacuoife.qofhvxceu.bcgqcgnbjtcFcksofvceuiguebcgqqw
ivf bcfo.cnbcrfpcgueob.cqugcqkcgnbcnqupbtcFvvcgnspcnfiibob.cxbpgbe.fx
bybosoatcOqrcSchbacxquecpib sfvcfggbogsqo:c qops.be:cskcnbcnf.coqr
pu  bb.b.csocieqysoacgnfgcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcrfpcfcgnsbk,cnbcrquv.
nfybcpnqrocgqcjxcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbecgnfgcnbcrfpcfvjqpgcesangcsocnsp
pupis sqop,cgnfgcnbcnf.cebfpqocgqchbcfoaexcfgcjxciuggsoacjxcpspgbecqo
fcvbybvcrsgncPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cgnfg,csocfggf wsoacjb,cnbcrfpcieqgb gsoa
fo.ciebpbeysoacgnbcnqoquecqkcjxcpspgbe,cnspchbgeqgnb.tcSockf gcnbcjsang
bybo,cgnequancfvvcgnsp,cnfybchbbocfhvbcgqcbpgefoabcjbckeqjcjxckfjsvx,
fo.coqc.quhgcnbcnqib.cgqchbcebpgqeb.cgqckfyquecrsgncgnbj;cgqcpfxcoqgnsoa
qkcebyboasoacnsjpbvkcqocjbcibepqofvvx,ckqecnbcnfpcaequo.pckqecpuiiqpsoa
gnfgcgnbcnqoquecfo.cnfiisobppcqkcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcfebcybexcieb squpcgq
jbtcGnfgcrfpcrnfgcnbcrfpcrqewsoackqe!cGnfg’pcnqrcScuo.bepgfo.csgtcGnfg’p
gnbcrnqvbcebfpqockqecsgcfo.cgnbebc fochbcoqcqgnbe!”

Sgcrfpcvswbcgnsp,cqecpqjbrnfgcvswbcgnsp,cgnfgcEfpwqvoswqycrquo.cuicnsp
pibb ncrns ncrfpckqvvqrb.cybexcfggbogsybvx,cgnquancqkgbocsogbeeuigb.chx
bd vfjfgsqopckeqjcnspcfu.sbo btcHugcsocpisgbcqkcsogbeeuigsqopcnbcpiqwb
 vbfevx,c fvjvx,cbdf gvx,cksejvxtcNspc.b spsybcyqs b,cnspcgqobcqk
 qoys gsqocfo.cnspcpgbeockf bcjf.bcfcaebfgcsjiebppsqocqocbybexqobt

“Xbp,cxbp,cgnfg’pcsg,”cVbhbzsfgoswqycfppbogb.cavbbkuvvx,c“gnfgcjupgchb
sg,ckqecnbcfpwb.cjb,cfpcpqqocfpcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofc fjbcsogqcqueceqqj,
rnbgnbecxqucrbebcnbeb,crnbgnbecScnf.cpbbocxqucfjqoacWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’p
aubpgptcNbc fvvb.cjbcfps.bcgqcgnbcrso.qrcfo.cfpwb.cjbcsocpb ebgtcSgcrfp
bppbogsfvckqecnsjcgnfgcxqucpnquv.chbcnbeb!cGnfg’pcsg,cgnfg’pcsg!”

Vuznsocpjsvb.c qogbjiguqupvxcfo.c.s.coqgcpibfwtcHugcnbcrfpcybexcifvbtcNb
pbbjb.cgqchbc.bvshbefgsoacqocpqjbcjbfopcqkcbp fibtcIbenfipcnbcrquv.cnfyb
hbbocavf.cgqcasybcuicbybexgnsoacfo.cabgcfrfx,chugcfgcgnbcjqjbogcgnsp
rfpcp fe bvxciqppshvbtcSgcrquv.cnfybcsjivsb.cf.jsggsoacgnbcgeugncqk
gnbcf  upfgsqopchequangcfafsopgcnsjtcJqebqybe,cgnbc qjifox,crns ncnf.
fvebf.xchbbocbd sgb.chxc.esow,crfpcoqrcgqqcju ncpgseeb.cgqcfvvqrcsgtcGnb
 qjjsppfesfgc vbew,cgnquancso.bb.cnbcnf.coqgcaefpib.cgnbcrnqvbciqpsgsqo,
rfpcpnqugsoacvqu.becgnfocfoxqobcfo.crfpcjfwsoacpqjbcpuaabpgsqopcybex
uoivbfpfogcgqcVuznsotcHugcoqgcfvvcgnqpbciebpbogcrbebc.euow;cvq.abepc fjb
sockeqjcfvvcgnbceqqjptcGnbcgnebbcIqvbpcrbebcgebjbo.qupvxcbd sgb.
fo.crbebc qogsoufvvxcpnqugsoacfgcnsj:c“Gnbc_ifo_cspcfc_vfm.fw_!”cfo.
juggbesoacgnebfgpcsocIqvspntcPqosfcnf.chbbocvspgbosoacrsgncpgefsob.
fggbogsqo,cgnquancpnbcgqqcpbbjb.cuofhvbcgqcaefpicsgcfvv;cpnbcpbbjb.cfp
gnquancpnbcnf.cmupgcebgueob.cgqc qop squpobpptcPnbc.s.coqgcgfwbcnbe
bxbpcqkkcEfpwqvoswqy,ckbbvsoacgnfgcfvvcnbecpfkbgxcvfxcsocnsjtcWfgbesof
Syfoqyofchebfgnb.cnfe.cfo.cifsokuvvxcfo.cpbbjb.ckbfekuvvxcbdnfupgb.t
FjfvsfcSyfoqyofcpgqq.cvqqwsoacjqebcpguis.cgnfocfoxqob,crsgncnbecjqugn
rs.bcqibo,cuofhvbcgqcjfwbcqugcrnfgcnf.cnfiibob.tcPnbcqovxcpfrcgnfgcIxqge
Ibgeqysg ncnf.cpqjbnqrc qjbcgqcaesbkt

Efpwqvoswqycrfpcfggbjigsoacgqcpibfwcfafso,chugcgnbxc.s.coqgcvbgcnsjt
Bybexqobcrfpc eqr.soacequo.cVuznsocrsgncgnebfgpcfo.cpnqugpcqkcfhupbt
HugcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncrfpcoqgcsogsjs.fgb.tcPbbsoacgnfgcnspcf  upfgsqocqk
Pqosfcnf.c qjivbgbvxckfsvb.,cnbcnf.ceb quepbcgqcsopqvbo b:

“Fvvqrcjb,cabogvbjbo,cfvvqrcjb!c.qo’gcplubbzb,cvbgcjbcifpp!”cnbcpfs.,
jfwsoacnspcrfxcgnequancgnbc eqr.tc“Fo.coqcgnebfgp,cskcxqucivbfpb!cS
fppuebcxqucsgcrsvvchbcupbvbpp,cxqucrsvvcafsocoqgnsoachxcsgtcQocgnb
 qogefex,cxqu’vvcnfybcgqcfoprbe,cabogvbjbo,ckqecysqvbogvxcqhpgeu gsoa
gnbc quepbcqkcmupgs btcGnbcgnsbkcnfpchbbocjqebcgnfocuojfpwb.,cfo.cS
pnfvvcieqpb ugbtcQuecmu.abpcfebcoqgcpqchvso.cfo.tttcoqgcpqc.euow,cfo.
rsvvcoqgchbvsbybcgnbcgbpgsjqoxcqkcgrqcoqgqesqupcsoks.bvp,cfasgfgqep,cfo.
fgnbspgp,crnqcf  upbcjbckeqjcjqgsybpcqkcibepqofvcebyboabcrns ncgnbxcfeb
kqqvspncboquancgqcf.jsgttttcXbp,cfvvqrcjbcgqcifpp!”

“.qo’gcvbgcjbckso.cfcgef bcqkcxqucsocjxceqqj!cWso.vxcvbfybcfgcqo b,cfo.
bybexgnsoacspcfgcfocbo.chbgrbbocup!cRnbocScgnsowcqkcgnbcgequhvbcS’yb
hbbocgfwsoa,cgnbcrfxcS’ybchbbocbdiquo.soatttcfvvcgnspckqegosang!”

“Scgqv.cxqucjxpbvkcgq-.fxcgnfgcScrfpcaqsoa,crnbocxqucgesb.cgqcwbbicjb;
oqrcScrsvvcpsjivxcf..cgnfgcxqucfebcfckqqvtcScf.yspbcxqucgqcpbbcfc.q gqe
kqecxquechefsopcfo.cxquecpnqegcpsangtcVbgcjbcifpp,cabogvbjbo!”

Nbckqe b.cnspcrfxcgnequantcHugcgnbc qjjsppfesfgc vbewcrfpcuorsvvsoacgq
vbgcnsjcqkkcpqcbfpsvx:cnbcis wb.cuicfcavfppckeqjcgnbcgfhvb,chefo.spnb.
sgcsocgnbcfsecfo.ckvuoacsgcfgcIxqgecIbgeqysg n;chugcgnbcavfppckvbr
pgefsangcfgcFjfvsfcSyfoqyoftcPnbcp ebfjb.,cfo.cgnbc vbew,cqybehfvfo soa,
kbvvcnbfysvxcuo.becgnbcgfhvbtcIxqgecIbgeqysg ncjf.bcnspcrfxcgqcnspceqqj
fo.cnfvkcfocnquecvfgbecnf.cvbkgcgnbcnqupbtcPqosf,cgsjs.chxcofgueb,cnf.
kbvgchbkqebcgnfgc.fxcgnfgcpnbc quv.chbcsvv-gebfgb.cjqebcbfpsvxcgnfo
foxqob,cfo.cgnfgcpnbc quv.chbcreqoab.crsgncsjiuosgxtcXbgcgsvvcgnfg
jqjbogcpnbcnf.ckfo sb.cgnfgcpnbcjsangcbp fibcjspkqeguobchxc feb,
abogvbobppcfo.cpuhjsppsybobppchbkqebcbybexqobtcNbec.spfiiqsogjbogcrfp
gqqcaebfgtcPnbc quv.,cqkc quepb,chbfecrsgncifgsbo bcfo.cfvjqpgcrsgnqug
juejuecfoxgnsoa,cbybocgnsptcHugckqecgnbcksepgcjsougbcpnbckbvgcsgcgqq
hsggbetcSocpisgbcqkcnbecgesujincfo.cnbecmupgsks fgsqo--rnbocnbecksepg
gbeeqecfo.cpguibkf gsqocnf.cifppb.cfo.cpnbc quv.cuo.bepgfo.csgcfvv
 vbfevx--gnbckbbvsoacqkcnbecnbvivbppobppcfo.cqkcgnbcreqoac.qobcgqcnbe
jf.bcnbecnbfegcgneqhcrsgncfoauspncfo.cpnbcrfpcqybe qjbcrsgncnxpgbes fv
rbbisoatcFgcvfpg,cuofhvbcgqchbfecfoxcjqeb,cpnbceupnb.cqugcqkcgnbceqqj
fo.cefocnqjb,cfvjqpgcsjjb.sfgbvxcfkgbecVuznso’pc.bifeguebtcRnbocfjs.pg
vqu.cvfuangbecgnbcavfppckvbrcfgcFjfvsfcSyfoqyof,csgcrfpcjqebcgnfocgnb
vfo.vf.xc quv.cbo.uebtcRsgncfcpnesbwcpnbceupnb.cvswbcfckuexcfgcWfgbesof
Syfoqyof,c qops.besoacnbecgqchvfjbckqecbybexgnsoat

“Qugcqkcjxcvq.asoap!cFgcqo b!cLus wcjfe n!”

Fo.crsgncgnbpbcrqe.pcpnbchbafocpofg nsoacuicbybexgnsoacpnbc quv.cvfx
nbecnfo.pcqocgnfgchbvqoab.cgqcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cfo.cgneqrsoacsgcqocgnb
kvqqetcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cifvb,cfvjqpgckfsogsoa,cfo.cafpisoackqechebfgn,
mujib.cuickeqjcgnbchb.crnbebcpnbcnf.cpuowcsocbdnfupgsqocfo.c.fegb.cfg
FjfvsfcSyfoqyoftcHugcgnbchfggvbcrfpcgqqcuoblufv:cgnbcvfo.vf.xcrfyb.cnbe
frfxcvswbcfckbfgnbet

“Rnfg!cFpcgnquancgnfgcaq.vbppc fvujoxcrfpcoqgcboquan--gnspcysvbc ebfgueb
fggf wpcjb!cRnfg!cQocgnbc.fxcqkcjxcnuphfo.’pckuobefvcScfjcgueob.cqugcqk
jxcvq.asoa!cFkgbecbfgsoacjxchebf.cfo.cpfvgcpnbcgueopcjbcsogqcgnbcpgebbg,
rsgncjxcqeinfop!cRnbebcfjcScgqcaq?”crfsvb.cgnbciqqecrqjfo,cpqhhsoacfo.
afpisoatc“Aqq.cAq.!”cpnbc esb.crsgnckvfpnsoacbxbp,c“spcgnbebcoqcmupgs b
uiqocbfegn?cRnqjcpnquv.cxqucieqgb gcskcoqgcupcqeinfop?cRbcpnfvvcpbb!
Gnbebcspcvfrcfo.cmupgs bcqocbfegn,cgnbebcsp,cScrsvvckso.csg!cRfsgcfchsg,
aq.vbppc ebfgueb!cIqvbowf,cpgfxcrsgncgnbc nsv.ebo,cS’vvc qjbchf wtcRfsg
kqecjb,cskcxqucnfybcgqcrfsgcsocgnbcpgebbgtcRbcrsvvcpbbcrnbgnbecgnbebcsp
mupgs bcqocbfegn!”

Fo.cgneqrsoacqybecnbecnbf.cgnfgcaebbocpnfrvcrns ncJfejbvf.qycnf.
jbogsqob.cgqcEfpwqvoswqy,cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcplubbzb.cnbecrfxcgnequancgnb
.spqe.bevxcfo.c.euowboc eqr.cqkcvq.abepcrnqcpgsvvcksvvb.cgnbceqqj,cfo.,
rfsvsoacfo.cgbfekuv,cpnbcefocsogqcgnbcpgebbg--rsgncfcyfaubcsogbogsqo
qkcaqsoacfgcqo bcpqjbrnbebcgqckso.cmupgs btcIqvbowfcrsgncgnbcgrqcvsggvb
qobpcsocnbecfejpc equ nb.,cgbeesksb.,cqocgnbcgeuowcsocgnbc qeobecqkcgnb
eqqj,crnbebcpnbcrfsgb.cgebjhvsoackqecnbecjqgnbecgqc qjbchf wtcFjfvsf
Syfoqyofcefab.cfhqugcgnbceqqj,cpnesbwsoa,cvfjbogsoacfo.cgneqrsoa
bybexgnsoacpnbc fjbcf eqppcqocgnbckvqqetcGnbcvq.abepcgfvwb.
so qnbebogvx,cpqjbc qjjbogb.cgqcgnbchbpgcqkcgnbsecfhsvsgxcqocrnfgcnf.
nfiibob.,cqgnbepclufeebvvb.cfo.cprqebcfgcqobcfoqgnbe,crnsvbcqgnbep
pgeu wcuicfcpqoatttt

“Oqrcsg’pcgsjbckqecjbcgqcaq,”cgnquangcEfpwqvoswqytc“Rbvv,cPqkxf
Pbjxqoqyof,crbcpnfvvcpbbcrnfgcxqu’vvcpfxcoqr!”

Fo.cnbcpbgcqkkcsocgnbc.seb gsqocqkcPqosf’pcvq.asoapt



 NFIGBEcSY

Efpwqvoswqycnf.chbbocfcysaqequpcfo.cf gsybc nfjisqocqkcPqosfcfafsopg
Vuznso,cfvgnquancnbcnf.cpu ncfcvqf.cqkcnqeeqecfo.cfoauspncsocnspcqro
nbfegtcHugcnfysoacaqobcgnequancpqcju ncsocgnbcjqeosoa,cnbckquo.cfcpqeg
qkcebvsbkcsocfc nfoabcqkcpbopfgsqop,cfifegckeqjcgnbcpgeqoacibepqofv
kbbvsoacrns ncsjibvvb.cnsjcgqc.bkbo.cPqosftcNbcrfpcfasgfgb.cgqq,
bpib sfvvxcfgcpqjbcjqjbogp,chxcgnbcgnquangcqkcnspcfiieqf nsoacsogbeysbr
rsgncPqosf:cnbc_nf._cgqcgbvvcnbecrnqcnf.cwsvvb.cVszfybgftcNbcwobrcgnb
gbeeshvbcpukkbesoacsgcrquv.chbcgqcnsjcfo.,cfpcsgcrbeb,cheupnb.cfrfxcgnb
gnquangcqkcsgtcPqcrnbocnbc esb.cfpcnbcvbkgcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’p,c“Rbvv,
PqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,crbcpnfvvcpbbcrnfgcxqu’vvcpfxcoqr!”cnbcrfpcpgsvv
puibeks sfvvxcbd sgb.,cpgsvvcysaqequpcfo.c.bksfogckeqjcnspcgesujincqybe
VuznsotcHug,cpgefoabcgqcpfx,chxcgnbcgsjbcnbcebf nb.cPqosf’pcvq.asoa,cnb
kbvgcfcpu..bocsjiqgbo bcfo.ckbfetcNbcpgqq.cpgsvvcsocnbpsgfgsqocfgcgnb
.qqe,cfpwsoacnsjpbvkcgnbcpgefoabclubpgsqo:c“Jupgcnbcgbvvcnbecrnqcwsvvb.
Vszfybgf?”cSgcrfpcfcpgefoabclubpgsqochb fupbcnbckbvgcfgcgnbcybexcgsjb
oqgcqovxcgnfgcnbc quv.coqgcnbvicgbvvsoacnbe,chugcfvpqcgnfgcnbc quv.
oqgciugcqkkcgnbcgbvvsoatcNbc.s.coqgcxbgcwoqrcrnxcsgcjupgchbcpq,cnb
qovxc_kbvg_csg,cfo.cgnbcfaqospsoacpbopbcqkcnspcsjiqgbo bchbkqeb
gnbcsobysgfhvbcfvjqpgc eupnb.cnsjtcGqc ugcpnqegcnspcnbpsgfgsqocfo.
pukkbesoa,cnbclus wvxcqibob.cgnbc.qqecfo.cvqqwb.cfgcPqosfckeqjcgnb
.qqerfxtcPnbcrfpcpsggsoacrsgncnbecbvhqrpcqocgnbcgfhvbcfo.cnbeckf bcso
nbecnfo.p,chugcpbbsoacEfpwqvoswqycpnbcaqgcuicfgcqo bcfo.c fjbcgqcjbbg
nsjcfpcgnquancpnbcrbebcbdib gsoacnsjt

“Rnfgcrquv.cnfybchb qjbcqkcjbchugckqecxqu?”cpnbcpfs.clus wvx,cjbbgsoa
nsjcsocgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbceqqjt

Bys.bogvxcpnbcrfpcsocnfpgbcgqcpfxcgnspcgqcnsjtcSgcrfpcrnfgcpnbcnf.chbbo
rfsgsoackqet

Efpwqvoswqycrbogcgqcgnbcgfhvbcfo.cpfgc.qrocqocgnbc nfseckeqjcrns ncpnb
nf.cqovxcmupgcespbotcPnbcpgqq.ckf soacnsj,cgrqcpgbipcfrfx,cmupgcfpcpnb
nf.c.qobcgnbc.fxchbkqebt

“Rbvv,cPqosf?”cnbcpfs.,cfo.ckbvgcgnfgcnspcyqs bcrfpcgebjhvsoa,c“sgcrfp
fvvc.ubcgqc‘xquecpq sfvciqpsgsqocfo.cgnbcnfhsgpcfppq sfgb.crsgncsgt’c.s.
xqucuo.bepgfo.cgnfgcmupgcoqr?”

Nbeckf bcpnqrb.cnbec.spgebppt

“Qovxc.qo’gcgfvwcgqcjbcfpcxquc.s.cxbpgbe.fx,”cpnbcsogbeeuigb.cnsjt
“Ivbfpbc.qo’gchbasocsgtcGnbebcspcjspbexcboquancrsgnqugcgnfgt”

Pnbcjf.bcnfpgbcgqcpjsvb,cfkefs.cgnfgcnbcjsangcoqgcvswbcgnbcebieqf nt

“Scrfpcpsvvxcgqc qjbcfrfxckeqjcgnbebtcRnfgcspcnfiibosoacgnbebcoqr?cS
rfogb.cgqcaqchf wc.seb gvx,chugcScwbigcgnsowsoacgnfgtttcxqucrquv.c qjbt”

Nbcgqv.cnbecgnfgcFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcrfpcgueosoacgnbjcqugcqkcgnbsecvq.asoa
fo.cgnfgcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcnf.ceuocqkkcpqjbrnbebc“gqcpbbwcmupgs bt”

“JxcAq.!”c esb.cPqosf,c“vbg’pcaqcfgcqo btttt”

Fo.cpnbcpofg nb.cuicnbec fibt

“Sg’pcbybevfpgsoavxcgnbcpfjbcgnsoa!”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,cseesgfhvxt
“Xqu’ybcoqcgnquangcbd bigckqecgnbj!cPgfxcfcvsggvbcrsgncjbt”

“HugtttcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof?”

“Xqucrqo’gcvqpbcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cxqucjfxchbcpueb,cpnb’vvc qjbcgqcxqu
nbepbvkcpso bcpnbcnfpceuocqug,”cnbcf..b.cibbyspnvxtc“Skcpnbc.qbpo’gckso.
xqucnbeb,cxqu’vvchbchvfjb.ckqecsgtttt”

Pqosfcpfgc.qrocsocifsokuvcpupibopbtcEfpwqvoswqycrfpcpsvbog,cafzsoacfg
gnbckvqqecfo.c.bvshbefgsoat

“GnspcgsjbcVuznsoc.s.coqgcrfogcgqcieqpb ugbcxqu,”cnbchbafo,coqgcvqqwsoa
fgcPqosf,c“hugcskcnbcnf.crfogb.cgq,cskcsgcnf.cpusgb.cnspcivfop,cnbcrquv.
nfybcpbogcxqucgqciespqocskcsgcnf.coqgchbbockqecVbhbzsfgoswqycfo.cjbt
Fn?”

“Xbp,”cpnbcfppbogb.csocfckfsogcyqs btc“Xbp,”cpnbcebibfgb.,ciebq  uisb.
fo.c.spgebppb.t

“HugcScjsangcbfpsvxcoqgcnfybchbbocgnbebtcFo.csgcrfpclusgbcfocf  s.bog
Vbhbzsfgoswqy’pcgueosoacuit”

Pqosfcrfpcpsvbogt

“Fo.cskcxqu’.caqobcgqciespqo,crnfgcgnbo?c.qcxqucebjbjhbecrnfgcScpfs.
xbpgbe.fx?”

Fafsocpnbc.s.coqgcfoprbetcNbcrfsgb.t

“Scgnquangcxqucrquv.c excqugcfafsoc‘.qo’gcpibfwcqkcsg,cvbfybcqkkt’”
cEfpwqvoswqycafybcfcvfuan,chugcefgnbecfckqe b.cqobtc“Rnfg,cpsvbo b
fafso?”cnbcfpwb.cfcjsougbcvfgbetc“Rbcjupgcgfvwcfhqugcpqjbgnsoa,cxqu
woqrtcSgcrquv.chbcsogbebpgsoackqecjbcgqcwoqrcnqrcxqucrquv.c.b s.bcf
 begfsoc‘ieqhvbj’cfpcVbhbzsfgoswqycrquv.cpfxt”c(Nbcrfpchbasoosoacgqcvqpb
gnbcgnebf.t)c“Oq,cebfvvx,cScfjcpbesquptcSjfasob,cPqosf,cgnfgcxqucnf.
woqrocfvvcVuznso’pcsogbogsqopchbkqebnfo.tcWoqro,cgnfgcsp,ckqecfckf g,
gnfgcgnbxcrquv.chbcgnbceusocqkcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfo.cgnbc nsv.ebocfo.
xquepbvkcgneqrocso--pso bcxquc.qo’gc quogcxquepbvkckqecfoxgnsoa--Iqvbowf
gqqtttckqecpnb’vvcaqcgnbcpfjbcrfxtcRbvv,cskcpu..bovxcsgcfvvc.bibo.b.cqo
xquec.b spsqocrnbgnbecnbcqecgnbxcpnquv.caqcqocvsysoa,cgnfgcspcrnbgnbe
Vuznsocpnquv.caqcqocvsysoacfo.c.qsoacrs wb.cgnsoap,cqecWfgbesofcSyfoqyof
pnquv.c.sb?cNqrcrquv.cxquc.b s.bcrns ncqkcgnbjcrfpcgqc.sb?cScfpwcxqu?”

Pqosfcvqqwb.cuobfpsvxcfgcnsjtcGnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoacib uvsfecsocgnsp
nbpsgfgsoaclubpgsqo,crns ncpbbjb.cfiieqf nsoacpqjbgnsoacsocfcequo.fhqug
rfxt

“Sckbvgcgnfgcxqucrbebcaqsoacgqcfpwcpqjbclubpgsqocvswbcgnfg,”cpnbcpfs.,
vqqwsoacsoluspsgsybvxcfgcnsjt

“Sc.febcpfxcxquc.s.tcHugcnqrcspcsgcgqchbcfoprbeb.?”

“Rnxc.qcxqucfpwcfhqugcrnfgc quv.coqgcnfiibo?”cpfs.cPqosfcebvu gfogvxt

“Gnbocsgcrquv.chbchbggbeckqecVuznsocgqcaqcqocvsysoacfo.c.qsoacrs wb.
gnsoap?cXqucnfybo’gc.feb.cgqc.b s.bcbybocgnfg!”

“HugcSc fo’gcwoqrcgnbc.sysobcIeqys.bo bttttcFo.crnxc.qcxqucfpwcrnfg
 fo’gchbcfoprbeb.?cRnfg’pcgnbcupbcqkcpu nckqqvspnclubpgsqop?cNqrc quv.
sgcnfiibocgnfgcsgcpnquv.c.bibo.cqocjxc.b spsqo--rnqcnfpcjf.bcjbcfcmu.ab
gqc.b s.bcrnqcspcgqcvsybcfo.crnqcspcoqgcgqcvsyb?”

“Qn,cskcgnbc.sysobcIeqys.bo bcspcgqchbcjsdb.cuicsocsg,cgnbebcspcoqc.qsoa
foxgnsoa,”cEfpwqvoswqycaeujhvb.cjqeqpbvxt

“Xqu’.chbggbecpfxcpgefsangcqugcrnfgcxqucrfog!”cPqosfc esb.csoc.spgebppt
“Xqucfebcvbf.soacuicgqcpqjbgnsoacfafsottttc focxqucnfybc qjbcpsjivxcgq
gqeguebcjb?”

Pnbc quv.coqgc qogeqvcnbepbvkcfo.chbafoc exsoachsggbevxtcNbcvqqwb.cfg
nbecsocavqqjxcjspbextcKsybcjsougbpcifppb.t

“Qkc quepbcxqu’ebcesang,cPqosf,”cnbcpfs.cpqkgvxcfgcvfpgtcNbcrfpcpu..bovx
 nfoab.tcNspcgqobcqkcfppujb.cfeeqafo bcfo.cnbvivbppc.bksfo bcrfpcaqobt
Bybocnspcyqs bcrfpcpu..bovxcrbfwtc“Scgqv.cxqucxbpgbe.fxcgnfgcScrfpcoqg
 qjsoacgqcfpwckqeasybobppcfo.cfvjqpgcgnbcksepgcgnsoacS’ybcpfs.cspcgqcfpw
kqeasybobppttttcScpfs.cgnfgcfhqugcVuznsocfo.cIeqys.bo bckqecjxcqrocpfwbt
Scrfpcfpwsoackqeasybobpp,cPqosftttt”

Nbcgesb.cgqcpjsvb,chugcgnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoacnbvivbppcfo.cso qjivbgbcso
nspcifvbcpjsvbtcNbchqrb.cnspcnbf.cfo.cns.cnspckf bcsocnspcnfo.pt

Fo.cpu..bovxcfcpgefoab,cpueiespsoacpbopfgsqocqkcfcpqegcqkchsggbecnfgeb.
kqecPqosfcifppb.cgnequancnspcnbfegtcFpcsgcrbebcrqo.besoacfo.ckesangbob.
qkcgnspcpbopfgsqo,cnbcefspb.cnspcnbf.cfo.cvqqwb.csogbogvxcfgcnbe;chugcnb
jbgcnbecuobfpxcfo.cifsokuvvxcfodsqupcbxbpcksdb.cqocnsj;cgnbebcrfp
vqybcsocgnbj;cnspcnfgeb.cyfospnb.cvswbcfcinfogqjtcSgcrfpcoqgcgnbcebfv
kbbvsoa;cnbcnf.cgfwbocgnbcqobckbbvsoackqecgnbcqgnbetcSgcqovxcjbfogcgnfg
_gnfg_cjsougbcnf.c qjbt

Nbcns.cnspckf bcsocnspcnfo.pcfafsocfo.chqrb.cnspcnbf.tcPu..bovxcnb
gueob.cifvb,caqgcuickeqjcnspc nfse,cvqqwb.cfgcPqosf,cfo.crsgnqug
uggbesoacfcrqe.cpfgc.qrocjb nfos fvvxcqocnbechb.t

Nspcpbopfgsqopcgnfgcjqjbogcrbebcgbeeshvxcvswbcgnbcjqjbogcrnbocnbcnf.
pgqq.cqybecgnbcqv.crqjfocrsgncgnbcfdbcsocnspcnfo.cfo.ckbvgcgnfgc“nbcjupg
oqgcvqpbcfoqgnbecjsougbt”

“Rnfg’pcgnbcjfggbe?”cfpwb.cPqosf,c.ebf.kuvvxckesangbob.t

Nbc quv.coqgcuggbecfcrqe.tcGnspcrfpcoqgcfgcfvv,coqgcfgcfvvcgnbcrfxcnb
nf.csogbo.b.cgqc“gbvv”cfo.cnbc.s.coqgcuo.bepgfo.crnfgcrfpcnfiibosoacgq
nsjcoqrtcPnbcrbogcuicgqcnsj,cpqkgvx,cpfgc.qrocqocgnbchb.chbps.bcnsjcfo.
rfsgb.,coqgcgfwsoacnbecbxbpcqkkcnsjtcNbecnbfegcgneqhhb.cfo.cpfowtcSg
rfpcuobo.uefhvb;cnbcgueob.cnspc.bf.vxcifvbckf bcgqcnbetcNspcvsipcrqewb.,
nbvivbppvxcpgeuaavsoacgqcuggbecpqjbgnsoatcFcifoacqkcgbeeqecifppb.
gnequancPqosf’pcnbfegt

“Rnfg’pcgnbcjfggbe?”cpnbcebibfgb.,c.efrsoacfcvsggvbcfrfxckeqjcnsjt

“Oqgnsoa,cPqosf,c.qo’gchbckesangbob.ttttcSg’pcoqopbopbtcSgcebfvvxcsp
oqopbopb,cskcxqucgnsowcqkcsg,”cnbcjuggbeb.,cvswbcfcjfocsoc.bvsesujtc“Rnx
nfybcSc qjbcgqcgqeguebcxqu?”cnbcf..b.cpu..bovx,cvqqwsoacfgcnbetc“Rnx,
ebfvvx?cScwbbicfpwsoacjxpbvkcgnfgclubpgsqo,cPqosftttt”

Nbcnf.cibenfipchbbocfpwsoacnsjpbvkcgnfgclubpgsqocfclufegbecqkcfocnque
hbkqeb,chugcoqrcnbcpiqwbcnbvivbppvx,cnfe.vxcwoqrsoacrnfgcnbcpfs.cfo.
kbbvsoacfc qogsoufvcgebjqecfvvcqybet

“Qn,cnqrcxqucfebcpukkbesoa!”cpnbcjuggbeb.csoc.spgebpp,cvqqwsoacsogbogvx
fgcnsjt

“Sg’pcfvvcoqopbopbttttcVspgbo,cPqosft”cNbcpu..bovxcpjsvb.,cfcifvb
nbvivbppcpjsvbckqecgrqcpb qo.ptc“XqucebjbjhbecrnfgcScjbfogcgqcgbvvcxqu
xbpgbe.fx?”

Pqosfcrfsgb.cuobfpsvxt

“Scpfs.cfpcScrbogcfrfxcgnfgcibenfipcScrfpcpfxsoacaqq.-hxbckqecbybe,chug
gnfgcskcSc fjbcgq-.fxcScrquv.cgbvvcxqucrnqtttcrnqcwsvvb.cVszfybgft”

Pnbchbafocgebjhvsoacfvvcqybet

“Rbvv,cnbebcS’ybc qjbcgqcgbvvcxqut”

“Gnbocxqucebfvvxcjbfogcsgcxbpgbe.fx?”cpnbcrnspibeb.crsgnc.skks uvgxt
“Nqrc.qcxqucwoqr?”cpnbcfpwb.clus wvx,cfpcgnquancpu..bovxcebafsosoacnbe
ebfpqot

Pqosf’pckf bcaebrcifvbecfo.cifvbe,cfo.cpnbchebfgnb.cifsokuvvxt

“Scwoqrt”

Pnbcifupb.cfcjsougbt

“Nfybcgnbxckquo.cnsj?”cpnbcfpwb.cgsjs.vxt

“Oqt”

“Gnbocnqrc.qcxqucwoqrcfhqugc_sg_?”cpnbcfpwb.cfafso,cnfe.vxcfu.shvxcfo.
fafsocfkgbecfcjsougb’pcifupbt

Nbcgueob.cgqcnbecfo.cvqqwb.cybexcsogbogvxcfgcnbet

“Aubpp,”cnbcpfs.,crsgncgnbcpfjbc.spgqegb.cnbvivbppcpjsvbt

Fcpnu..becifppb.cqybecnbet

“Hugcxqutttcrnxc.qcxquckesangbocjbcvswbcgnsp?”cpnbcpfs.,cpjsvsoacvswbcf
 nsv.t

“Scjupgchbcfcaebfgckesbo.cqkc_nsp_tttcpso bcScwoqr,”cEfpwqvoswqycrbog
qo,cpgsvvcafzsoacsogqcnbeckf b,cfpcgnquancnbc quv.coqgcgueocnspcbxbp
frfxtc“Nbtttc.s.coqgcjbfocgqcwsvvcgnfgcVszfybgftttcnbtttcwsvvb.cnbe
f  s.bogfvvxttttcNbcjbfogcgqcwsvvcgnbcqv.crqjfocrnbocpnbcrfpcfvqobcfo.
nbcrbogcgnbebtttcfo.cgnbocVszfybgfc fjbcsotttcnbcwsvvb.cnbecgqqt”

Foqgnbecfrkuvcjqjbogcifppb.tcHqgncpgsvvcafzb.cfgcqobcfoqgnbet

“Xquc fo’gcaubpp,cgnbo?”cnbcfpwb.cpu..bovx,ckbbvsoacfpcgnquancnbcrbeb
kvsoasoacnsjpbvkc.qrockeqjcfcpgbbivbt

“O-oqttt”crnspibeb.cPqosft

“Gfwbcfcaqq.cvqqwt”

Fpcpqqocfpcnbcnf.cpfs.cgnspcfafso,cgnbcpfjbckfjsvsfecpbopfgsqockeqzbcnsp
nbfegtcNbcvqqwb.cfgcnbecfo.cfvvcfgcqo bcpbbjb.cgqcpbbcsocnbeckf bcgnb
kf bcqkcVszfybgftcNbcebjbjhbeb.c vbfevxcgnbcbdiebppsqocsocVszfybgf’p
kf b,crnbocnbcfiieqf nb.cnbecrsgncgnbcfdbcfo.cpnbcpgbiib.chf wcgqcgnb
rfvv,ciuggsoacqugcnbecnfo.,crsgnc nsv.spncgbeeqecsocnbeckf b,cvqqwsoa
fpcvsggvbc nsv.eboc.qcrnbocgnbxchbasocgqchbckesangbob.cqkcpqjbgnsoa,
vqqwsoacsogbogvxcfo.cuobfpsvxcfgcrnfgckesangbopcgnbj,cpnesowsoachf wcfo.
nqv.soacqugcgnbsecvsggvbcnfo.pcqocgnbciqsogcqkc exsoatcFvjqpgcgnbcpfjb
gnsoacnfiibob.coqrcgqcPqosftcRsgncgnbcpfjbcnbvivbppobppcfo.cgnbcpfjb
gbeeqe,cpnbcvqqwb.cfgcnsjckqecfcrnsvbcfo.,cpu..bovxciuggsoacqugcnbecvbkg
nfo.,ciebppb.cnbecksoabepckfsogvxcfafsopgcnspchebfpgcfo.cpvqrvxchbafocgq
abgcuickeqjcgnbchb.,cjqysoackuegnbeckeqjcnsjcfo.cwbbisoacnbecbxbpcksdb.
bybocjqebcsjjqyfhvxcqocnsjtcNbecgbeeqecsokb gb.cnsjtcGnbcpfjbckbfe
pnqrb.csgpbvkcqocnspckf btcSocgnbcpfjbcrfxcnbcpgfeb.cfgcnbecfo.cfvjqpg
rsgncgnbcpfjbc_ nsv.spn_cpjsvbt

“Nfybcxqucaubppb.?”cnbcrnspibeb.cfgcvfpgt

“Aqq.cAq.!”cheqwbcsocfocfrkuvcrfsvckeqjcnbechqpqjt

Pnbcpfowcnbvivbppvxcqocgnbchb.crsgncnbeckf bcsocgnbcisvvqrp,chugcf
jqjbogcvfgbecpnbcaqgcui,cjqyb.clus wvxcgqcnsj,cpbszb.chqgncnspcnfo.p
fo.,caesiisoacgnbjcgsangcsocnbecgnsocksoabep,chbafocvqqwsoacsogqcnsp
kf bcfafsocrsgncgnbcpfjbcsogbogcpgfebtcSocgnspcvfpgc.bpibefgbcvqqwcpnb
gesb.cgqcvqqwcsogqcnsjcfo.c fg ncpqjbcvfpgcnqibtcHugcgnbebcrfpcoqcnqib;
gnbebcrfpcoqc.quhgcebjfsosoa;csgcrfpcfvvcgeub!cVfgbecqo,cso.bb.,crnbo
pnbceb fvvb.cgnfgcjqjbog,cpnbcgnquangcsgcpgefoabcfo.crqo.beb.crnxcpnb
nf.cpbbocfgcqo bcgnfgcgnbebcrfpcoqc.quhgtcPnbc quv.coqgcnfybcpfs.,ckqe
sopgfo b,cgnfgcpnbcnf.ckqebpbbocpqjbgnsoacqkcgnbcpqeg--fo.cxbgcoqr,cfp
pqqocfpcnbcgqv.cnbe,cpnbcpu..bovxckfo sb.cgnfgcpnbcnf.cebfvvxckqebpbbo
gnspcybexcgnsoat

“Pgqi,cPqosf,cboquan!c.qo’gcgqeguebcjb,”cnbchbaab.cnbecjspbefhvxt

Sgcrfpcoqgcfgcfvv,coqgcfgcfvvcvswbcgnspcnbcnf.cgnquangcqkcgbvvsoacnbe,
hugcgnspcspcnqrcsgcnfiibob.t

Pnbcmujib.cui,cpbbjsoacoqgcgqcwoqrcrnfgcpnbcrfpc.qsoa,cfo.,cresoasoacnbe
nfo.p,crfvwb.csogqcgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbceqqj;chugclus wvxcrbogchf wcfo.cpfg
.qrocfafsochbps.bcnsj,cnbecpnquv.becfvjqpgcgqu nsoacnsptcFvvcqkcfcpu..bo
pnbcpgfegb.cfpcgnquancpnbcnf.chbbocpgfhhb.,cuggbeb.cfc excfo.ckbvvcqo
nbecwobbpchbkqebcnsj,cpnbc.s.coqgcwoqrcrnxt

“Rnfgcnfybcxquc.qob--rnfgcnfybcxquc.qobcgqcxquepbvk?”cpnbcpfs.cso
.bpifse,cfo.,cmujisoacui,cpnbckvuoacnbepbvkcqocnspcob w,cgnebrcnbecfejp
equo.cnsj,cfo.cnbv.cnsjcgsangvxt

Efpwqvoswqyc.ebrchf wcfo.cvqqwb.cfgcnbecrsgncfcjqueokuvcpjsvbt

“Xqucfebcfcpgefoabcasev,cPqosf--xqucwsppcjbcfo.cnuacjbcrnbocScgbvvcxqu
fhqugcgnfgttttcXquc.qo’gcgnsowcrnfgcxqucfebc.qsoat”

“Gnbebcspcoqcqob--oqcqobcsocgnbcrnqvbcrqev.coqrcpqcuonfiixcfpcxqu!”cpnb
 esb.csocfckebozx,coqgcnbfesoacrnfgcnbcpfs.,cfo.cpnbcpu..bovxcheqwbcsogq
ysqvbogcnxpgbes fvcrbbisoat

Fckbbvsoacvqoacuokfjsvsfecgqcnsjckvqq.b.cnspcnbfegcfo.cpqkgbob.csgcfg
qo btcNbc.s.coqgcpgeuaavbcfafsopgcsgtcGrqcgbfepcpgfegb.csogqcnspcbxbp
fo.cnuoacqocnspcbxbvfpnbpt

“Gnbocxqucrqo’gcvbfybcjb,cPqosf?”cnbcpfs.,cvqqwsoacfgcnbecfvjqpgcrsgn
nqibt

“Oq,coq,cobybe,coqrnbeb!”c esb.cPqosftc“Scrsvvckqvvqrcxqu,cScrsvvckqvvqr
xqucbybexrnbebtcQn,cjxcAq.!cQn,cnqrcjspbefhvbcScfj!tttcRnx,crnxc.s.o’gcS
woqrcxquchbkqeb!cRnxc.s.o’gcxquc qjbchbkqeb?cQn,c.bfe!”

“NbebcScnfybc qjbt”

“Xbp,coqr!cRnfg’pcgqchbc.qobcoqr?tttcGqabgnbe,cgqabgnbe!”cpnbcebibfgb.
fpcsgcrbebcuo qop squpvx,cfo.cpnbcnuaab.cnsjcfafsotc“S’vvckqvvqrcxqucgq
Pshbesf!”

Nbceb qsvb.cfgcgnsp,cfo.cgnbcpfjbcnqpgsvb,cfvjqpgcnfuangxcpjsvbc fjbcgq
nspcvsipt

“IbenfipcSc.qo’gcrfogcgqcaqcgqcPshbesfcxbg,cPqosf,”cnbcpfs.t

Pqosfcvqqwb.cfgcnsjclus wvxt

Fafsocfkgbecnbecksepgcifppsqofgb,cfaqospsoacpxjifgnxckqecgnbcuonfiixcjfo
gnbcgbeeshvbcs.bfcqkcgnbcjue.becqybernbvjb.cnbetcSocnspc nfoab.cgqobcpnb
pbbjb.cgqcnbfecgnbcjue.bebecpibfwsoatcPnbcvqqwb.cfgcnsjchbrsv.beb.tcPnb
wobrcoqgnsoacfpcxbg,crnx,cnqr,crsgncrnfgcqhmb gcsgcnf.chbbotcOqrcfvv
gnbpbclubpgsqopceupnb.cfgcqo bcsogqcnbecjso.tcFo.cfafsocpnbc quv.coqg
hbvsbybcsg:c“Nb,cnbcspcfcjue.bebe!c quv.csgchbcgeub?”

“Rnfg’pcgnbcjbfosoacqkcsg?cRnbebcfjcS?”cpnbcpfs.csoc qjivbgb
hbrsv.bejbog,cfpcgnquancpgsvvcuofhvbcgqceb qybecnbepbvktc“Nqrc quv.cxqu,
xqu,cfcjfocvswbcxquttttcNqrc quv.cxquchesoacxquepbvkcgqcsg?tttcRnfgc.qbp
sgcjbfo?”

“Qn,crbvv--gqcivuo.betcVbfybcqkk,cPqosf,”cnbcfoprbeb.crbfesvx,cfvjqpg
rsgncybdfgsqot

Pqosfcpgqq.cfpcgnquancpgeu wc.ujh,chugcpu..bovxcpnbc esb.:

“Xqucrbebcnuoaex!cSgcrfptttcgqcnbvicxquecjqgnbe?cXbp?”

“Oq,cPqosf,coq,”cnbcjuggbeb.,cgueosoacfrfxcfo.cnfoasoacnspcnbf.tc“Scrfp
oqgcpqcnuoaexttttcSc begfsovxc.s.crfogcgqcnbvicjxcjqgnbe,chugtttcgnfg’p
oqgcgnbcebfvcgnsoacbsgnbettttc.qo’gcgqeguebcjb,cPqosft”

Pqosfc vfpib.cnbecnfo.pt

“ quv.csg,c quv.csgcfvvchbcgeub?cAqq.cAq.,crnfgcfcgeugn!cRnqc quv.
hbvsbybcsg?cFo.cnqrc quv.cxqucasybcfrfxcxquecvfpgckfegnsoacfo.cxbg
eqhcfo.cjue.be!cFn,”cpnbc esb.cpu..bovx,c“gnfgcjqobxcxqucafybcWfgbesof
Syfoqyoftttcgnfgcjqobxttttc focgnfgcjqobxttt”

“Oq,cPqosf,”cnbcheqwbcsocnueesb.vx,c“gnfgcjqobxcrfpcoqgcsgtc.qo’gcrqeex
xquepbvk!cGnfgcjqobxcjxcjqgnbecpbogcjbcfo.csgc fjbcrnbocScrfpcsvv,cgnb
.fxcScafybcsgcgqcxquttttcEfzujsnsocpfrcsgtttcnbceb bsyb.csgckqecjbtttt
Gnfgcjqobxcrfpcjsob--jxcqrot”

Pqosfcvspgbob.cgqcnsjcsochbrsv.bejbogcfo.c.s.cnbecugjqpgcgqc qjiebnbo.t

“Fo.c_gnfg_cjqobxttttcSc.qo’gcbybocwoqrcebfvvxcrnbgnbecgnbebcrfpcfox
jqobx,”cnbcf..b.cpqkgvx,cfpcgnquancebkvb gsoatc“Scgqqwcfciuepbcqkkcnbe
ob w,cjf.bcqkc nfjqspcvbfgnbetttcfciuepbcpgukkb.ckuvvcqkcpqjbgnsoattt
hugcSc.s.o’gcvqqwcsocsg;cScpuiiqpbcScnf.o’gcgsjbttttcFo.cgnb
gnsoap-- nfsopcfo.cgesowbgp--Schuesb.cuo.becfcpgqobcrsgncgnbciuepbcobdg
jqeosoacsocfcxfe.cqkkcgnbcY----cIeqpib gtcGnbxcfebcfvvcgnbebcoqrtttt”

Pqosfcpgefsob.cbybexcobeybcgqcvspgbot

“Gnbocrnxtttcrnx,cxqucpfs.cxquc.s.csgcgqceqh,chugcxqucgqqwcoqgnsoa?”cpnb
fpwb.clus wvx,c fg nsoacfgcfcpgefrt

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrttttcScnfybo’gcxbgc.b s.b.crnbgnbecgqcgfwbcgnfgcjqobxcqe
oqg,”cnbcpfs.,cjupsoacfafso;cfo.,cpbbjsoacgqcrfwbcuicrsgncfcpgfeg,cnb
afybcfchesbkcseqos fvcpjsvbtc“F n,crnfgcpsvvxcpgukkcScfjcgfvwsoa,cbn?”

Gnbcgnquangckvfpnb.cgnequancPqosf’pcjso.,crfpo’gcnbcjf.?cHugcpnb
.spjsppb.csgcfgcqo btc“Oq,csgcrfpcpqjbgnsoacbvpbt”cPnbc quv.cjfwb
oqgnsoacqkcsg,coqgnsoat

“.qcxqucwoqr,cPqosf,”cnbcpfs.cpu..bovxcrsgnc qoys gsqo,c“vbgcjbcgbvv
xqu:cskcS’.cpsjivxcwsvvb.chb fupbcScrfpcnuoaex,”cvfxsoacpgebppcqo
bybexcrqe.cfo.cvqqwsoacbosajfgs fvvxchugcpso bebvxcfgcnbe,c“Scpnquv.
hbc_nfiix_coqrtcXqucjupgchbvsbybcgnfg!cRnfgcrquv.csgcjfggbecgqcxqu,”cnb
 esb.cfcjqjbogcvfgbecrsgncfcpqegcqkc.bpifse,c“rnfgcrquv.csgcjfggbecgq
xqucskcScrbebcgqc qokbppcgnfgcSc.s.creqoa?cRnfgc.qcxqucafsochxcpu n
fcpguis.cgesujincqybecjb?cFn,cPqosf,crfpcsgckqecgnfgcS’ybc qjbcgqcxqu
gq-.fx?”

FafsocPqosfcgesb.cgqcpfxcpqjbgnsoa,chugc.s.coqgcpibfwt

“Scfpwb.cxqucgqcaqcrsgncjbcxbpgbe.fxchb fupbcxqucfebcfvvcScnfybcvbkgt”

“Aqcrnbeb?”cfpwb.cPqosfcgsjs.vxt

“Oqgcgqcpgbfvcfo.coqgcgqcjue.be,c.qo’gchbcfodsqup,”cnbcpjsvb.chsggbevxt
“Rbcfebcpqc.skkbebogttttcFo.cxqucwoqr,cPqosf,csg’pcqovxcoqr,cqovxcgnsp
jqjbogcgnfgcScuo.bepgfo.c_rnbeb_cScfpwb.cxqucgqcaqcrsgncjbcxbpgbe.fx!
Xbpgbe.fxcrnbocScpfs.csgcSc.s.coqgcwoqrcrnbebtcScfpwb.cxquckqecqob
gnsoa,cSc fjbcgqcxquckqecqobcgnsoa--oqgcgqcvbfybcjbtcXqucrqo’gcvbfybcjb,
Pqosf?”

Pnbcplubbzb.cnspcnfo.t

“Fo.crnx,crnxc.s.cScgbvvcnbe?cRnxc.s.cScvbgcnbecwoqr?”cnbc esb.cfcjsougb
vfgbecsoc.bpifse,cvqqwsoacrsgncsoksosgbcfoauspncfgcnbetc“Nbebcxqucbdib g
focbdivfofgsqockeqjcjb,cPqosf;cxqucfebcpsggsoacfo.crfsgsoackqecsg,cScpbb
gnfgtcHugcrnfgc focScgbvvcxqu?cXqucrqo’gcuo.bepgfo.cfo.crsvvcqovxcpukkbe
jspbextttcqocjxcf  quog!cRbvv,cxqucfebc exsoacfo.cbjhef soacjbcfafsot
Rnxc.qcxquc.qcsg?cHb fupbcSc quv.o’gchbfecjxchue.bocfo.cnfybc qjbcgq
gneqrcsgcqocfoqgnbe:cxqucpukkbecgqq,cfo.cScpnfvvckbbvchbggbe!cFo.c fo
xqucvqybcpu ncfcjbfocrebg n?”

“Hugcfebo’gcxqucpukkbesoa,cgqq?”c esb.cPqosft

Fafsocfcrfybcqkcgnbcpfjbckbbvsoacpueab.csogqcnspcnbfeg,cfo.cfafsockqecfo
sopgfogcpqkgbob.csgt

“Pqosf,cScnfybcfchf.cnbfeg,cgfwbcoqgbcqkcgnfgtcSgcjfxcbdivfsocfcaebfg
.bfvtcScnfybc qjbchb fupbcScfjchf.tcGnbebcfebcjbocrnqcrquv.o’gcnfyb
 qjbtcHugcScfjcfc qrfe.cfo.tttcfcjbfocrebg ntcHugtttcobybecjso.!cGnfg’p
oqgcgnbciqsogtcScjupgcpibfwcoqr,chugcSc.qo’gcwoqrcnqrcgqchbasot”

Nbcifupb.cfo.cpfowcsogqcgnquangt

“F n,crbcfebcpqc.skkbebog,”cnbc esb.cfafso,c“rbcfebcoqgcfvswbtcFo.crnx,
rnxc.s.cSc qjb?cScpnfvvcobybeckqeasybcjxpbvkcgnfgt”

“Oq,coq,csgcrfpcfcaqq.cgnsoacxquc fjb,”c esb.cPqosftc“Sg’pchbggbecS
pnquv.cwoqr,ckfechbggbe!”

Nbcvqqwb.cfgcnbecrsgncfoauspnt

“Rnfgcskcsgcrbebcebfvvxcgnfg?”cnbcpfs.,cfpcgnquancebf nsoacfc qo vupsqot
“Xbp,cgnfg’pcrnfgcsgcrfp!cScrfogb.cgqchb qjbcfcOfiqvbqo,cgnfgcspcrnxcS
wsvvb.cnbettttc.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.coqr?”

“O-oq,”cPqosfcrnspibeb.cofïybvxcfo.cgsjs.vxtc“Qovxcpibfw,cpibfw,cScpnfvv
uo.bepgfo.,cScpnfvvcuo.bepgfo.c_socjxpbvk_!”cpnbcwbigchbaasoacnsjt

“Xqu’vvcuo.bepgfo.?cYbexcrbvv,crbcpnfvvcpbb!”cNbcifupb.cfo.crfpckqecpqjb
gsjbcvqpgcsocjb.sgfgsqot

“Sgcrfpcvswbcgnsp:cScfpwb.cjxpbvkcqobc.fxcgnspclubpgsqo--rnfgcsk
Ofiqvbqo,ckqecsopgfo b,cnf.cnfiibob.cgqchbcsocjxcivf b,cfo.cskcnbcnf.
oqgcnf.cGquvqocoqecBaxigcoqecgnbcifppfabcqkcJqogcHvfo cgqchbasocnsp
 febbecrsgn,chugcsopgbf.cqkcfvvcgnqpbcis guebplubcfo.cjqoujbogfvcgnsoap,
gnbebcnf.cpsjivxchbbocpqjbces.s uvqupcqv.cnfa,cfcifroheqwbe,crnqcnf.
gqchbcjue.beb.cgqqcgqcabgcjqobxckeqjcnbecgeuowc(kqecnspc febbe,cxqu
uo.bepgfo.)tcRbvv,crquv.cnbcnfybchequangcnsjpbvkcgqcgnfgcskcgnbebcnf.
hbbocoqcqgnbecjbfop?cRquv.o’gcnbcnfybckbvgcfcifoacfgcsgpchbsoacpqckfe
keqjcjqoujbogfvcfo.tttcfo.cpsokuv,cgqq?cRbvv,cScjupgcgbvvcxqucgnfgcS
rqeesb.cjxpbvkckbfekuvvxcqybecgnfgc‘lubpgsqo’cpqcgnfgcScrfpcfrkuvvx
fpnfjb.crnbocScaubppb.cfgcvfpgc(fvvcqkcfcpu..bo,cpqjbnqr)cgnfgcsgcrquv.
oqgcnfybcasybocnsjcgnbcvbfpgcifoa,cgnfgcsgcrquv.coqgcbybocnfybcpgeu w
nsjcgnfgcsgcrfpcoqgcjqoujbogfvtttcgnfgcnbcrquv.coqgcnfybcpbbocgnfgcgnbeb
rfpcfoxgnsoacsocsgcgqcifupbcqybe,cfo.cgnfg,cskcnbcnf.cnf.coqcqgnbecrfx,
nbcrquv.cnfybcpgefoavb.cnbecsocfcjsougbcrsgnqugcgnsowsoacfhqugcsg!
Rbvv,cScgqqtttcvbkgcqkkcgnsowsoacfhqugcsgtttcjue.beb.cnbe,ckqvvqrsoa
nspcbdfjivbtcFo.cgnfg’pcbdf gvxcnqrcsgcrfp!c.qcxqucgnsowcsgckuoox?cXbp,
Pqosf,cgnbckuoosbpgcgnsoacqkcfvvcspcgnfgcibenfipcgnfg’pcmupgcnqrcsg
rfpt”

Pqosfc.s.coqgcgnsowcsgcfgcfvvckuooxt

“Xqucnf.chbggbecgbvvcjbcpgefsangcqugtttcrsgnqugcbdfjivbp,”cpnbchbaab.,
pgsvvcjqebcgsjs.vxcfo.cp fe bvxcfu.shvxt

Nbcgueob.cgqcnbe,cvqqwb.cpf.vxcfgcnbecfo.cgqqwcnbecnfo.pt

“Xqucfebcesangcfafso,cPqosftcQkc quepbcgnfg’pcfvvcoqopbopb,csg’pcfvjqpg
fvvcgfvw!cXqucpbb,cxqucwoqrcqkc quepbcgnfgcjxcjqgnbecnfpcp fe bvx
foxgnsoa,cjxcpspgbecnfiibob.cgqcnfybcfcaqq.cb.u fgsqocfo.crfpc qo.bjob.
gqc.eu.abcfpcfcaqybeobpptcFvvcgnbsecnqibpcrbebc bogbeb.cqocjbtcScrfpcf
pgu.bog,chugcSc quv.o’gcwbbicjxpbvkcfgcgnbcuosybepsgxcfo.crfpckqe b.
kqecfcgsjbcgqcvbfybcsgtcBybocskcScnf.cvsoabeb.cqocvswbcgnfg,csocgbo
qecgrbvybcxbfepcScjsangc(rsgncvu w)cnqibcgqchbcpqjbcpqegcqkcgbf nbecqe
 vbewcrsgncfcpfvfexcqkcfcgnqupfo.cequhvbp”c(nbcebibfgb.csgcfpcgnquancsg
rbebcfcvbppqo)c“fo.chxcgnfgcgsjbcjxcjqgnbecrquv.chbcrqeocqugcrsgncaesbk
fo.cfodsbgxcfo.cSc quv.coqgcpu  bb.csocwbbisoacnbecsoc qjkqegcrnsvbcjx
pspgbetttcrbvv,cjxcpspgbecjsangcrbvvcnfybckfeb.crqepb!cFo.csg’pcfcnfe.
gnsoacgqcifppcbybexgnsoachxcfvvcqob’pcvskb,cgqcgueocqob’pchf wcuiqo
bybexgnsoa,cgqckqeabgcqob’pcjqgnbecfo.c.b qequpvxcf  bigcgnbcsopuvgp
sokvs gb.cqocqob’pcpspgbetcRnxcpnquv.cqob?cRnbocqobcnfpchuesb.cgnbjcgq
hue.bocqobpbvkcrsgncqgnbep--rskbcfo.c nsv.ebo--fo.cgqcvbfybcgnbjcfafso
rsgnqugcfckfegnsoa?cPqcScebpqvyb.cgqcafsociqppbppsqocqkcgnbcqv.crqjfo’p
jqobxcfo.cgqcupbcsgckqecjxcksepgcxbfepcrsgnqugcrqeexsoacjxcjqgnbe,
gqcwbbicjxpbvkcfgcgnbcuosybepsgxcfo.ckqecfcvsggvbcrnsvbcfkgbecvbfysoa
sg--fo.cgqc.qcgnspcfvvcqocfcheqf.,cgnqequancp fvb,cpqcfpcgqchusv.cui
fc qjivbgbvxcobrc febbecfo.cbogbecuiqocfcobrcvskbcqkcso.bibo.bo btttt
Rbvvtttcgnfg’pcfvvttttcRbvv,cqkc quepbcsocwsvvsoacgnbcqv.crqjfocSc.s.
reqoattttcRbvv,cgnfg’pcboquant”

Nbcpgeuaavb.cgqcgnbcbo.cqkcnspcpibb ncsocbdnfupgsqocfo.cvbgcnspcnbf.
psowt

“Qn,cgnfg’pcoqgcsg,cgnfg’pcoqgcsg,”cPqosfc esb.csoc.spgebpptc“Nqrc quv.
qobtttcoq,cgnfg’pcoqgcesang,coqgcesangt”

“Xqucpbbcxquepbvkcgnfgcsg’pcoqgcesangtcHugcS’ybcpiqwbocgeuvx,csg’pcgnb
geugnt”

“Fpcgnquancgnfgc quv.chbcgnbcgeugn!cAqq.cAq.!”

“S’ybcqovxcwsvvb.cfcvqupb,cPqosf,cfcupbvbpp,cvqfgnpqjb,cnfejkuv
 ebfguebt”

“Fcnujfochbsoa--fcvqupb!”

“Scgqqcwoqrcsgcrfpo’gcfcvqupb,”cnbcfoprbeb.,cvqqwsoacpgefoabvxcfg
nbetc“HugcScfjcgfvwsoacoqopbopb,cPqosf,”cnbcf..b.tc“S’ybchbbocgfvwsoa
oqopbopbcfcvqoacgsjbttttcGnfg’pcoqgcsg,cxqucfebcesangcgnbebtcGnbebcrbeb
lusgb,clusgbcqgnbec fupbpckqecsg!cScnfybo’gcgfvwb.cgqcfoxqobckqecpq
vqoa,cPqosfttttcJxcnbf.cf nbpc.ebf.kuvvxcoqrt”

Nspcbxbpcpnqobcrsgnckbybespnchesvvsfo btcNbcrfpcfvjqpgc.bvsesqup;cfo
uobfpxcpjsvbcpgefxb.cqocnspcvsiptcNspcgbeeshvbcbdnfupgsqoc quv.chbcpbbo
gnequancnspcbd sgbjbogtcPqosfcpfrcnqrcnbcrfpcpukkbesoatcPnbcgqq
rfpcaeqrsoac.szzxtcFo.cnbcgfvwb.cpqcpgefoabvx;csgcpbbjb.cpqjbnqr
 qjiebnbopshvb,chugcxbgtttc“Hugcnqr,cnqr!cAqq.cAq.!”cFo.cpnbcreuoacnbe
nfo.pcsoc.bpifset

“Oq,cPqosf,cgnfg’pcoqgcsg,”cnbchbafocfafsocpu..bovx,cefspsoacnspcnbf.,
fpcgnquancfcobrcfo.cpu..bocgefsocqkcgnquangcnf.cpgeu wcfo.cfpcsgcrbeb
equpb.cnsj--“gnfg’pcoqgcsg!cHbggbetttcsjfasob--xbp,csg’pc begfsovx
hbggbe--sjfasobcgnfgcScfjcyfso,cboysqup,cjfvs squp,chfpb,cyso.s gsyb
fo.tttcrbvv,cibenfipcrsgncfcgbo.bo xcgqcsopfosgxtc(Vbg’pcnfybcsgcfvvcqug
fgcqo b!cGnbx’ybcgfvwb.cqkcjf.obppcfvebf.x,cScoqgs b.t)cScgqv.cxqucmupg
oqrcSc quv.coqgcwbbicjxpbvkcfgcgnbcuosybepsgxtcHugc.qcxqucwoqrcgnfg
ibenfipcScjsangcnfybc.qob?cJxcjqgnbecrquv.cnfybcpbogcjbcrnfgcScobb.b.
kqecgnbckbbpcfo.cSc quv.cnfybcbfeob.cboquanckqec vqgnbp,chqqgpcfo.ckqq.,
oqc.quhgtcVbppqopcnf.cgueob.cuicfgcnfvkcfcequhvbtcEfzujsnsocrqewp!cHugcS
gueob.cpuvwxcfo.crquv.o’gtc(Xbp,cpuvwsobpp,cgnfg’pcgnbcesangcrqe.ckqe
sg!)cScpfgcsocjxceqqjcvswbcfcpis.betcXqu’ybchbbocsocjxc.bo,cxqu’ybcpbbo
sgttttcFo.c.qcxqucwoqr,cPqosf,cgnfgcvqrc bsvsoapcfo.cgsoxceqqjpc efji
gnbcpquvcfo.cgnbcjso.?cFn,cnqrcScnfgb.cgnfgcafeebg!cFo.cxbgcScrquv.o’g
aqcqugcqkcsg!cScrquv.o’gcqociueiqpb!cSc.s.o’gcaqcqugckqec.fxpcgqabgnbe,
fo.cScrquv.o’gcrqew,cScrquv.o’gcbybocbfg,cScmupgcvfxcgnbebc.qsoa
oqgnsoatcSkcOfpgfpxfchequangcjbcfoxgnsoa,cScfgbcsg,cskcpnbc.s.o’g,cS
rbogcfvvc.fxcrsgnqug;cScrquv.o’gcfpw,cqociueiqpb,ckeqjcpuvwsobpp!cFg
osangcScnf.coqcvsang,cScvfxcsocgnbc.fewcfo.cScrquv.o’gcbfeocjqobxckqe
 fo.vbptcScquangcgqcnfybcpgu.sb.,chugcScpqv.cjxchqqwp;cfo.cgnbc.upgcvsbp
focso ncgns wcqocgnbcoqgbhqqwpcqocjxcgfhvbtcSciebkbeeb.cvxsoacpgsvvcfo.
gnsowsoatcFo.cScwbigcgnsowsoattttcFo.cScnf.c.ebfjpcfvvcgnbcgsjb,cpgefoab
.ebfjpcqkcfvvcpqegp,coqcobb.cgqc.bp eshb!cQovxcgnbocSchbafocgqckfo x
gnfgtttcOq,cgnfg’pcoqgcsg!cFafsocScfjcgbvvsoacxqucreqoa!cXqucpbbcScwbig
fpwsoacjxpbvkcgnbo:crnxcfjcScpqcpguis.cgnfgcskcqgnbepcfebcpguis.--fo.cS
woqrcgnbxcfeb--xbgcScrqo’gchbcrspbe?cGnbocScpfr,cPqosf,cgnfgcskcqob
rfsgpckqecbybexqobcgqcabgcrspbecsgcrsvvcgfwbcgqqcvqoattttcFkgberfe.pcS
uo.bepgqq.cgnfgcgnfgcrquv.cobybec qjbcgqcifpp,cgnfgcjbocrqo’gc nfoabcfo.
gnfgcoqhq.xc focfvgbecsgcfo.cgnfgcsg’pcoqgcrqegncrfpgsoacbkkqegcqybecsgt
Xbp,cgnfg’pcpqtcGnfg’pcgnbcvfrcqkcgnbsecofgueb,cPqosf,tttcgnfg’pcpq!ttt
Fo.cScwoqrcoqr,cPqosf,cgnfgcrnqbybecspcpgeqoacsocjso.cfo.cpisesgcrsvv
nfybciqrbecqybecgnbjtcFoxqobcrnqcspcaebfgvxc.fesoacspcesangcsocgnbse
bxbptcNbcrnqc.bpispbpcjqpgcgnsoapcrsvvchbcfcvfrasybecfjqoacgnbjcfo.cnb
rnqc.febpcjqpgcqkcfvvcrsvvchbcjqpgcsocgnbcesang!cPqcsgcnfpchbbocgsvvcoqr
fo.cpqcsgcrsvvcfvrfxpchbtcFcjfocjupgchbchvso.coqgcgqcpbbcsg!”

GnquancEfpwqvoswqycvqqwb.cfgcPqosfcfpcnbcpfs.cgnsp,cnbcoqcvqoabec feb.
rnbgnbecpnbcuo.bepgqq.cqecoqgtcGnbckbybecnf.c qjivbgbcnqv.cqkcnsj;cnb
rfpcsocfcpqegcqkcavqqjxcb pgfpxc(nbc begfsovxcnf.chbbocgqqcvqoacrsgnqug
gfvwsoacgqcfoxqob)tcPqosfckbvgcgnfgcnspcavqqjxc ebb.cnf.chb qjbcnsp
kfsgncfo.c q.bt

“Sc.sysob.cgnbo,cPqosf,”cnbcrbogcqocbfabevx,c“gnfgciqrbecspcqovx
yqu npfkb.cgqcgnbcjfocrnqc.febpcgqcpgqqicfo.cis wcsgcuitcGnbebcspcqovx
qobcgnsoa,cqobcgnsoacobb.kuv:cqobcnfpcqovxcgqc.feb!cGnbockqecgnbcksepg
gsjbcsocjxcvskbcfocs.bfcgqqwcpnfibcsocjxcjso.crns ncoqcqobcnf.cbybe
gnquangcqkchbkqebcjb,coqcqob!cScpfrc vbfecfpc.fxvsangcnqrcpgefoabcsgcsp
gnfgcoqgcfcpsoavbcibepqocvsysoacsocgnspcjf.crqev.cnfpcnf.cgnbc.fesoacgq
aqcpgefsangckqecsgcfvvcfo.cpbo.csgckvxsoacgqcgnbc.bysv!cStttcScrfogb.
_gqcnfybcgnbc.fesoa_tttcfo.cScwsvvb.cnbetcScqovxcrfogb.cgqcnfybcgnb
.fesoa,cPqosf!cGnfgcrfpcgnbcrnqvbc fupbcqkcsg!”

“Qncnupn,cnupn,”c esb.cPqosf,c vfpisoacnbecnfo.ptc“Xqucgueob.cfrfxckeqj
Aq.cfo.cAq.cnfpcpjsggbocxqu,cnfpcasybocxqucqybecgqcgnbc.bysv!”

“GnbocPqosf,crnbocScupb.cgqcvsbcgnbebcsocgnbc.fewcfo.cfvvcgnspchb fjb
 vbfecgqcjb,crfpcsgcfcgbjigfgsqocqkcgnbc.bysv,cbn?”

“Nupn,c.qo’gcvfuan,chvfpinbjbe!cXquc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.,cxquc.qo’g
uo.bepgfo.!cQncAq.!cNbcrqo’gcuo.bepgfo.!”

“Nupn,cPqosf!cScfjcoqgcvfuansoatcScwoqrcjxpbvkcgnfgcsgcrfpcgnbc.bysv
vbf.soacjbtcNupn,cPqosf,cnupn!”cnbcebibfgb.crsgncavqqjxcsopspgbo btc“S
woqrcsgcfvv,cScnfybcgnquangcsgcfvvcqybecfo.cqybecfo.crnspibeb.csgcfvv
qybecgqcjxpbvk,cvxsoacgnbebcsocgnbc.fewttttcS’ybcfeaub.csgcfvvcqybecrsgn
jxpbvk,cbybexciqsogcqkcsg,cfo.cScwoqrcsgcfvv,cfvv!cFo.cnqrcps w,cnqr
ps wcScrfpcgnbocqkcaqsoacqybecsgcfvv!cScnfybcwbigcrfogsoacgqckqeabgcsg
fo.cjfwbcfcobrchbasoosoa,cPqosf,cfo.cvbfybcqkkcgnsowsoatcFo.cxquc.qo’g
puiiqpbcgnfgcScrbogcsogqcsgcnbf.vqoacvswbcfckqqv?cScrbogcsogqcsgcvswbcf
rspbcjfo,cfo.cgnfgcrfpcmupgcjxc.bpgeu gsqotcFo.cxqucjupgo’gcpuiiqpbcgnfg
Sc.s.o’gcwoqr,ckqecsopgfo b,cgnfgcskcSchbafocgqclubpgsqocjxpbvkcrnbgnbe
Scnf.cgnbcesangcgqcafsociqrbe--Sc begfsovxcnf.o’gcgnbcesang--qecgnfgcsk
Scfpwb.cjxpbvkcrnbgnbecfcnujfochbsoacspcfcvqupbcsgcieqyb.cgnfgcsgcrfpo’g
pqckqecjb,cgnquancsgcjsangchbckqecfcjfocrnqcrquv.caqcpgefsangcgqcnsp
aqfvcrsgnqugcfpwsoaclubpgsqopttttcSkcScrqeesb.cjxpbvkcfvvcgnqpbc.fxp,
rqo.besoacrnbgnbecOfiqvbqocrquv.cnfybc.qobcsgcqecoqg,cSckbvgc vbfevx
qkc quepbcgnfgcScrfpo’gcOfiqvbqotcScnf.cgqcbo.uebcfvvcgnbcfaqoxcqkcgnfg
hfggvbcqkcs.bfp,cPqosf,cfo.cScvqoab.cgqcgneqrcsgcqkk:cScrfogb.cgqcjue.be
rsgnqugc fpuspgex,cgqcjue.beckqecjxcqrocpfwb,ckqecjxpbvkcfvqob!cSc.s.o’g
rfogcgqcvsbcfhqugcsgcbybocgqcjxpbvktcSgcrfpo’gcgqcnbvicjxcjqgnbecSc.s.
gnbcjue.be--gnfg’pcoqopbopb--Sc.s.o’gc.qcgnbcjue.becgqcafsocrbfvgncfo.
iqrbecfo.cgqchb qjbcfchbobkf gqecqkcjfowso.tcOqopbopb!cScpsjivxc.s.csg;
Sc.s.cgnbcjue.beckqecjxpbvk,ckqecjxpbvkcfvqob,cfo.crnbgnbecSchb fjbcf
hbobkf gqecgqcqgnbep,cqecpibogcjxcvskbcvswbcfcpis.bec fg nsoacjbocso
jxcrbhcfo.cpu wsoacgnbcvskbcqugcqkcjbo,cSc quv.o’gcnfybc feb.cfgcgnfg
jqjbogttttcFo.csgcrfpcoqgcgnbcjqobxcScrfogb.,cPqosf,crnbocSc.s.csgtcSg
rfpcoqgcpqcju ncgnbcjqobxcScrfogb.,chugcpqjbgnsoacbvpbttttcScwoqrcsgcfvv
oqrttttcUo.bepgfo.cjb!cIbenfipcScpnquv.cobybecnfybc qjjsggb.cfcjue.be
fafsotcScrfogb.cgqckso.cqugcpqjbgnsoacbvpb;csgcrfpcpqjbgnsoacbvpbcvb.
jbcqotcScrfogb.cgqckso.cqugcgnbocfo.clus wvxcrnbgnbecScrfpcfcvqupb
vswbcbybexhq.xcbvpbcqecfcjfotcRnbgnbecSc focpgbicqybechfeesbepcqe
oqg,crnbgnbecSc.febcpgqqicgqcis wcuicqecoqg,crnbgnbecScfjcfcgebjhvsoa
 ebfguebcqecrnbgnbecScnfybcgnbc_esang_ttt”

“Gqcwsvv?cNfybcgnbcesangcgqcwsvv?”cPqosfc vfpib.cnbecnfo.pt

“F n,cPqosf!”cnbc esb.cseesgfhvxcfo.cpbbjb.cfhqugcgqcjfwbcpqjbcebgqeg,
hugcrfpc qogbjiguqupvxcpsvbogtc“.qo’gcsogbeeuigcjb,cPqosftcScrfogcgq
ieqybcqobcgnsoacqovx,cgnfgcgnbc.bysvcvb.cjbcqocgnbocfo.cnbcnfpcpnqrocjb
pso bcgnfgcScnf.coqgcgnbcesangcgqcgfwbcgnfgcifgn,chb fupbcScfjcmupgcpu n
fcvqupbcfpcfvvcgnbcebpgtcNbcrfpcjq wsoacjbcfo.cnbebcS’ybc qjbcgqcxqu
oqr!cRbv qjbcxquecaubpg!cSkcScrbebcoqgcfcvqupb,cpnquv.cScnfybc qjbcgq
xqu?cVspgbo:crnbocScrbogcgnbocgqcgnbcqv.crqjfo’pcScqovxcrbogcgq
_gex_ttttcXqucjfxchbcpuebcqkcgnfg!”

“Fo.cxqucjue.beb.cnbe!”

“Hugcnqrc.s.cScjue.becnbe?cSpcgnfgcnqrcjboc.qcjue.bep?c.qcjbocaqcgq
 qjjsgcfcjue.becfpcScrbogcgnbo?cScrsvvcgbvvcxqucpqjbc.fxcnqrcScrbog!
.s.cScjue.becgnbcqv.crqjfo?cScjue.beb.cjxpbvk,coqgcnbe!cSc eupnb.cjxpbvk
qo bckqecfvv,ckqecbybettttcHugcsgcrfpcgnbc.bysvcgnfgcwsvvb.cgnfgcqv.
rqjfo,coqgcStcBoquan,cboquan,cPqosf,cboquan!cVbgcjbchb!”cnbc esb.csocf
pu..bocpifpjcqkcfaqox,c“vbgcjbchb!”

Nbcvbfob.cnspcbvhqrpcqocnspcwobbpcfo.cplubbzb.cnspcnbf.csocnspcnfo.pcfp
socfcyspbt

“Rnfgcpukkbesoa!”cFcrfsvcqkcfoauspncheqwbckeqjcPqosft

“Rbvv,crnfgcfjcScgqc.qcoqr?”cnbcfpwb.,cpu..bovxcefspsoacnspcnbf.cfo.
vqqwsoacfgcnbecrsgncfckf bcns.bqupvxc.spgqegb.chxc.bpifset

“Rnfgcfebcxqucgqc.q?”cpnbc esb.,cmujisoacui,cfo.cnbecbxbpcgnfgcnf.chbbo
kuvvcqkcgbfepcpu..bovxchbafocgqcpnsobtc“Pgfo.cui!”c(Pnbcpbszb.cnsjchx
gnbcpnquv.be,cnbcaqgcui,cvqqwsoacfgcnbecfvjqpgchbrsv.beb.t)c“Aqcfgcqo b,
gnspcybexcjsougb,cpgfo.cfgcgnbc eqpp-eqf.p,chqrc.qro,cksepgcwsppcgnb
bfegncrns ncxqucnfybc.bksvb.cfo.cgnbochqrc.qrocgqcfvvcgnbcrqev.cfo.cpfx
gqcfvvcjbocfvqu.,c‘Scfjcfcjue.bebe!’cGnbocAq.crsvvcpbo.cxqucvskbcfafsot
Rsvvcxqucaq,crsvvcxqucaq?”cpnbcfpwb.cnsj,cgebjhvsoacfvvcqybe,cpofg nsoa
nspcgrqcnfo.p,cplubbzsoacgnbjcgsangcsocnbepcfo.cafzsoacfgcnsjcrsgncbxbp
kuvvcqkcksebt

Nbcrfpcfjfzb.cfgcnbecpu..bocb pgfpxt

“XqucjbfocPshbesf,cPqosf?cScjupgcasybcjxpbvkcui?”cnbcfpwb.cavqqjsvxt

“Pukkbecfo.cbdisfgbcxquecpsochxcsg,cgnfg’pcrnfgcxqucjupgc.qt”

“Oq!cScfjcoqgcaqsoacgqcgnbj,cPqosf!”

“Hugcnqrcrsvvcxqucaqcqocvsysoa?cRnfgcrsvvcxqucvsybckqe?”c esb.cPqosf,
“nqrcspcsgciqppshvbcoqr?cRnx,cnqrc focxqucgfvwcgqcxquecjqgnbe?c(Qn,crnfg
rsvvchb qjbcqkcgnbjcoqr?)cHugcrnfgcfjcScpfxsoa?cXqucnfybcfhfo.qob.cxque
jqgnbecfo.cxquecpspgbecfvebf.xtcNbcnfpcfhfo.qob.cgnbjcfvebf.x!cQn,
Aq.!”cpnbc esb.,c“rnx,cnbcwoqrpcsgcfvvcnsjpbvktcNqr,cnqrc focnbcvsybchx
nsjpbvk!cRnfgcrsvvchb qjbcqkcxqucoqr?”

“.qo’gchbcfc nsv.,cPqosf,”cnbcpfs.cpqkgvxtc“RnfgcreqoacnfybcSc.qob
gnbj?cRnxcpnquv.cScaqcgqcgnbj?cRnfgcpnquv.cScpfxcgqcgnbj?cGnfg’pcqovxcf
infogqjttttcGnbxc.bpgeqxcjbochxcjsvvsqopcgnbjpbvybpcfo.cvqqwcqocsgcfpcf
ysegubtcGnbxcfebcwofybpcfo.cp quo.ebvp,cPqosf!cScfjcoqgcaqsoacgqcgnbjt
Fo.crnfgcpnquv.cScpfxcgqcgnbj--gnfgcScjue.beb.cnbe,chugc.s.coqgc.febcgq
gfwbcgnbcjqobxcfo.cns.csgcuo.becfcpgqob?”cnbcf..b.crsgncfchsggbecpjsvbt
“Rnx,cgnbxcrquv.cvfuancfgcjb,cfo.crquv.c fvvcjbcfckqqvckqecoqgcabggsoa
sgtcFc qrfe.cfo.cfckqqv!cGnbxcrquv.o’gcuo.bepgfo.cfo.cgnbxc.qo’gc.bpbeyb
gqcuo.bepgfo.tcRnxcpnquv.cScaqcgqcgnbj?cScrqo’gtc.qo’gchbcfc nsv.,
Pqosftttt”

“Sgcrsvvchbcgqqcju nckqecxqucgqchbfe,cgqqcju n!”cpnbcebibfgb.,cnqv.soa
qugcnbecnfo.pcsoc.bpifsesoacpuiivs fgsqot

“IbenfipcS’ybchbbocuokfsecgqcjxpbvk,”cnbcqhpbeyb.cavqqjsvx,ciqo.besoa,
“ibenfipcfkgbecfvvcScfjcfcjfocfo.coqgcfcvqupbcfo.cS’ybchbbocsocgqqcaebfg
fcnueexcgqc qo.bjocjxpbvktcS’vvcjfwbcfoqgnbecksangckqecsgt”

Fcnfuangxcpjsvbcfiibfeb.cqocnspcvsipt

“Rnfgcfchue.bocgqchbfe!cFo.cxquecrnqvbcvskb,cxquecrnqvbcvskb!”

“Scpnfvvcabgcupb.cgqcsg,”cnbcpfs.caesjvxcfo.cgnquangkuvvxtc“Vspgbo,”cnb
hbafocfcjsougbcvfgbe,c“pgqic exsoa,csg’pcgsjbcgqcgfvwcqkcgnbckf gp:cS’yb
 qjbcgqcgbvvcxqucgnfgcgnbciqvs bcfebcfkgbecjb,cqocjxcgef wtttt”

“F n!”cPqosfc esb.csocgbeeqet

“Rbvv,crnxc.qcxquc excqug?cXqucrfogcjbcgqcaqcgqcPshbesfcfo.coqrcxqucfeb
kesangbob.?cHugcvbgcjbcgbvvcxqu:cScpnfvvcoqgcasybcjxpbvkcuitcScpnfvv
jfwbcfcpgeuaavbckqecsgcfo.cgnbxcrqo’gc.qcfoxgnsoacgqcjbtcGnbx’ybcoqcebfv
bys.bo btcXbpgbe.fxcScrfpcsocaebfgc.foabecfo.chbvsbyb.cScrfpcvqpg;chug
gq-.fxcgnsoapcfebcaqsoachbggbetcFvvcgnbckf gpcgnbxcwoqrc fochbcbdivfsob.
grqcrfxp,cgnfg’pcgqcpfxcSc focgueocgnbsecf  upfgsqopcgqcjxc eb.sg,c.q
xqucuo.bepgfo.?cFo.cScpnfvv,ckqecS’ybcvbfeogcjxcvbppqotcHugcgnbxcrsvv
 begfsovxcfeebpgcjbtcSkcsgcnf.coqgchbbockqecpqjbgnsoacgnfgcnfiibob.,
gnbxcrquv.cnfybc.qobcpqcgq-.fxckqec begfso;cibenfipcbybocoqrcgnbxcrsvv
feebpgcjbcgq-.fxttttcHugcgnfg’pcoqcjfggbe,cPqosf;cgnbx’vvcvbgcjbcqug
fafsotttckqecgnbebcspo’gcfoxcebfvcieqqkcfafsopgcjb,cfo.cgnbebcrqo’gchb,
Scasybcxqucjxcrqe.ckqecsgtcFo.cgnbxc fo’gc qoys gcfcjfocqocrnfgcgnbx
nfybcfafsopgcjbtcBoquanttttcScqovxcgbvvcxqucgnfgcxqucjfxcwoqrttttcScrsvv
gexcgqcjfofabcpqjbnqrcgqciugcsgcgqcjxcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbecpqcgnfgcgnbx
rqo’gchbckesangbob.ttttcJxcpspgbe’pckuguebcspcpb ueb,cnqrbybe,coqr,cS
hbvsbybtttcfo.cjxcjqgnbe’pcjupgchbcgqqttttcRbvv,cgnfg’pcfvvtcHbc febkuv,
gnquantcRsvvcxquc qjbcfo.cpbbcjbcsociespqocrnbocScfjcgnbeb?”

“Qn,cScrsvv,cScrsvvt”

Gnbxcpfgcps.bchxcps.b,chqgncjqueokuvcfo.c.bmb gb.,cfpcgnquancgnbxcnf.
hbboc fpgcuichxcgnbcgbjibpgcfvqobcqocpqjbc.bpbegb.cpnqebtcNbcvqqwb.cfg
Pqosfcfo.ckbvgcnqrcaebfgcrfpcnbecvqybckqecnsj,cfo.cpgefoabcgqcpfxcnb
kbvgcsgcpu..bovxchue.bopqjbcfo.cifsokuvcgqchbcpqcvqyb.tcXbp,csgcrfpcf
pgefoabcfo.cfrkuvcpbopfgsqo!cQocnspcrfxcgqcpbbcPqosfcnbcnf.ckbvgcgnfg
fvvcnspcnqibpcebpgb.cqocnbe;cnbcbdib gb.cgqchbces.cqkcfgcvbfpgcifeg
qkcnspcpukkbesoa,cfo.coqr,crnbocfvvcnbecnbfegcgueob.cgqrfe.pcnsj,cnb
pu..bovxckbvgcgnfgcnbcrfpcsjjbfpuefhvxcuonfiisbecgnfochbkqebt

“Pqosf,”cnbcpfs.,c“xqu’.chbggbecoqgc qjbcfo.cpbbcjbcrnbocScfjcso
iespqot”

Pqosfc.s.coqgcfoprbe,cpnbcrfpc exsoatcPbybefvcjsougbpcifppb.t

“Nfybcxqucfc eqppcqocxqu?”cpnbcfpwb.,cfpcgnquancpu..bovxcgnsowsoacqkcsgt

Nbc.s.coqgcfgcksepgcuo.bepgfo.cgnbclubpgsqot

“Oq,cqkc quepbcoqgtcNbeb,cgfwbcgnspcqob,cqkc xiebppcrqq.tcScnfyb
foqgnbe,cfc qiibecqobcgnfgchbvqoab.cgqcVszfybgftcSc nfoab.crsgn
Vszfybgf:cpnbcafybcjbcnbec eqppcfo.cScafybcnbecjxcvsggvbcswqotcScrsvv
rbfecVszfybgf’pcoqrcfo.casybcxqucgnsptcGfwbcsgtttcsg’pcjsob!cSg’pcjsob,
xqucwoqr,”cpnbchbaab.cnsjtc“Rbcrsvvcaqcgqcpukkbecgqabgnbe,cfo.cgqabgnbe
rbcrsvvchbfecquec eqpp!”

“Asybcsgcjb,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqyt

Nbc.s.coqgcrfogcgqcnuegcnbeckbbvsoaptcHugcsjjb.sfgbvxcnbc.ebrchf wcgnb
nfo.cnbcnbv.cqugckqecgnbc eqppt

“Oqgcoqr,cPqosftcHbggbecvfgbe,”cnbcf..b.cgqc qjkqegcnbet

“Xbp,cxbp,chbggbe,”cpnbcebibfgb.crsgnc qoys gsqo,c“rnbocxqucaqcgqcjbbg
xquecpukkbesoa,cgnbociugcsgcqotcXqucrsvvc qjbcgqcjb,cS’vvciugcsgcqocxqu,
rbcrsvvciefxcfo.caqcgqabgnbet”

Fgcgnfgcjqjbogcpqjbqobcwoq wb.cgnebbcgsjbpcfgcgnbc.qqet

“PqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cjfxcSc qjbcso?”cgnbxcnbfe.csocfcybexckfjsvsfecfo.
iqvsgbcyqs bt

Pqosfceupnb.cgqcgnbc.qqecsocfckesangtcGnbckvfdbocnbf.cqkcJet
Vbhbzsfgoswqycfiibfeb.cfgcgnbc.qqet



 NFIGBEcY

Vbhbzsfgoswqycvqqwb.cibeguehb.t

“S’ybc qjbcgqcxqu,cPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,”cnbchbafotc“Bd upbcjbtttcScgnquang
Scpnquv.ckso.cxqu,”cnbcpfs.,cf..ebppsoacEfpwqvoswqycpu..bovx,c“gnfgcsp,
Sc.s.o’gcjbfocfoxgnsoatttcqkcgnfgcpqegtttcHugcScmupgcgnquangtttcWfgbesof
Syfoqyofcnfpcaqobcqugcqkcnbecjso.,”cnbchvuegb.cqugcpu..bovx,cgueosoa
keqjcEfpwqvoswqycgqcPqosft

Pqosfcp ebfjb.t

“FgcvbfpgcsgcpbbjpcpqtcHugtttcrbc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcgqc.q,cxqucpbb!cPnb
 fjbchf w--pnbcpbbjpcgqcnfybchbbocgueob.cqugcpqjbrnbeb,cibenfip
hbfgbottttcPqcsgcpbbjpcfgcvbfpg,tttcPnbcnf.ceuocgqcxqueckfgnbe’pckqejbe
 nsbk,cpnbc.s.o’gckso.cnsjcfgcnqjb:cnbcrfpc.sosoacfgcpqjbcqgnbe
abobefv’pttttcQovxckfo x,cpnbceupnb.cqkkcgnbeb,cgqcgnbcqgnbecabobefv’p,
fo.,csjfasob,cpnbcrfpcpqcibepspgbogcgnfgcpnbcjfofab.cgqcabgcgnbc nsbkcgq
pbbcnbe,cnf.cnsjckbg nb.cqugckeqjc.soobe,csgcpbbjptcXquc focsjfasobcrnfg
nfiibob.tcPnbcrfpcgueob.cqug,cqkc quepb;chug,cf  qe.soacgqcnbecqro
pgqex,cpnbcfhupb.cnsjcfo.cgnebrcpqjbgnsoacfgcnsjtcQobcjfxcrbvvchbvsbyb
sgttttcNqrcsgcspcpnbcrfpo’gcgfwbocui,cSc fo’gcuo.bepgfo.!cOqrcpnbcsp
gbvvsoacbybexqob,cso vu.soacFjfvsfcSyfoqyof;chugcsg’pc.skks uvgcgq
uo.bepgfo.cnbe,cpnbcspcp ebfjsoacfo.ckvsoasoacnbepbvkcfhqugttttcQncxbp,
pnbcpnqugpcgnfgcpso bcbybexqobcnfpcfhfo.qob.cnbe,cpnbcrsvvcgfwbcgnb
 nsv.ebocfo.caqcsogqcgnbcpgebbgcrsgncfchfeebv-qeafo,cfo.cgnbc nsv.ebo
rsvvcpsoacfo.c.fo b,cfo.cpnbcgqq,cfo.c qvvb gcjqobx,cfo.crsvvcaqcbybex
.fxcuo.becgnbcabobefv’pcrso.qrtttc‘gqcvbgcbybexqobcpbbcrbvv-hqeo
 nsv.ebo,crnqpbckfgnbecrfpcfocqkks sfv,chbaasoacsocgnbcpgebbgt’cPnb
wbbipchbfgsoacgnbc nsv.ebocfo.cgnbxcfebcfvvc exsoatcPnbcspcgbf nsoacVs.f
gqcpsoac‘JxcYsvvfab,’cgnbchqxcgqc.fo b,cIqvbowfcgnbcpfjbtcPnbcspcgbfesoa
uicfvvcgnbc vqgnbp,cfo.cjfwsoacgnbjcvsggvbc fipcvswbcf gqep;cpnbcjbfop
gqc feexcfcgsochfpsocfo.cjfwbcsgcgsowvb,csopgbf.cqkcjups ttttcPnbcrqo’g
vspgbocgqcfoxgnsoattttcSjfasobcgnbcpgfgbcqkcgnsoap!cSg’pchbxqo.
foxgnsoa!”

Vbhbzsfgoswqycrquv.cnfybcaqobcqo,chugcPqosf,crnqcnf.cnbfe.cnsjcfvjqpg
hebfgnvbpp,cpofg nb.cuicnbec vqfwcfo.cnfg,cfo.cefocqugcqkcgnbceqqj,
iuggsoacqocnbecgnsoapcfpcpnbcrbogtcEfpwqvoswqyckqvvqrb.cnbecfo.
Vbhbzsfgoswqyc fjbcfkgbecnsjt

“Pnbcnfpc begfsovxcaqobcjf.!”cnbcpfs.cgqcEfpwqvoswqy,cfpcgnbxcrbogcqug
sogqcgnbcpgebbgtc“Sc.s.o’gcrfogcgqckesangbocPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cpqcScpfs.
‘sgcpbbjb.cvswbcsg,’chugcgnbebcspo’gcfc.quhgcqkcsgtcGnbxcpfxcgnfgcso
 qopujigsqocgnbcguhbe vbpcpqjbgsjbpcq  uecsocgnbchefso;csg’pcfcisgxcS
woqrcoqgnsoacqkcjb.s sobtcSc.s.cgexcgqcibepuf.bcnbe,chugcpnbcrquv.o’g
vspgbot”

“.s.cxqucgfvwcgqcnbecfhqugcgnbcguhbe vbp?”

“Oqgcieb spbvxcqkcgnbcguhbe vbptcHbps.bp,cpnbcrquv.o’gcnfybcuo.bepgqq.!
HugcrnfgcScpfxcsp,cgnfgcskcxquc qoyso bcfcibepqocvqas fvvxcgnfgcnb
nfpcoqgnsoacgqc excfhqug,cnb’vvcpgqic exsoatcGnfg’pc vbfetcSpcsgcxque
 qoys gsqocgnfgcnbcrqo’g?”

“Vskbcrquv.chbcgqqcbfpxcskcsgcrbebcpq,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“Bd upbcjb,cbd upbcjb;cqkc quepbcsgcrquv.chbcefgnbec.skks uvgckqe
WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcgqcuo.bepgfo.,chugc.qcxqucwoqrcgnfgcsocIfespcgnbxcnfyb
hbboc qo.u gsoacpbesqupcbdibesjbogpcfpcgqcgnbciqppshsvsgxcqkc uesoacgnb
sopfob,cpsjivxchxcvqas fvcfeaujbog?cQobcieqkbppqecgnbeb,cfcp sbogsks 
jfocqkcpgfo.soa,cvfgbvxc.bf.,chbvsbyb.csocgnbciqppshsvsgxcqkcpu n
gebfgjbogtcNspcs.bfcrfpcgnfgcgnbeb’pcoqgnsoacebfvvxcreqoacrsgncgnb
inxps fvcqeafospjcqkcgnbcsopfob,cfo.cgnfgcsopfosgxcsp,cpqcgqcpfx,cf
vqas fvcjspgfwb,cfocbeeqecqkcmu.ajbog,cfocso qeeb gcysbrcqkcgnsoaptcNb
aef.ufvvxcpnqrb.cgnbcjf.jfocnspcbeeqecfo.,crquv.cxquchbvsbybcsg,cgnbx
pfxcnbcrfpcpu  bppkuv?cHugcfpcnbcjf.bcupbcqkc.qu nbpcgqq,cnqrckfe
pu  bppcrfpc.ubcgqcgnfgcgebfgjbogcebjfsopcuo begfsottttcPqcsgcpbbjpcfg
vbfpgt”

Efpwqvoswqycnf.cvqoac bfpb.cgqcvspgbotcEbf nsoacgnbcnqupbcrnbebcnb
vsyb.,cnbcoq..b.cgqcVbhbzsfgoswqycfo.crbogcsocfgcgnbcafgbtcVbhbzsfgoswqy
rqwbcuicrsgncfcpgfeg,cvqqwb.cfhqugcnsjcfo.cnueesb.cqot

Efpwqvoswqycrbogcsogqcnspcvsggvbceqqjcfo.cpgqq.cpgsvvcsocgnbcjs..vb
qkcsgtcRnxcnf.cnbc qjbchf wcnbeb?cNbcvqqwb.cfgcgnbcxbvvqrcfo.cgfggbeb.
ifibe,cfgcgnbc.upg,cfgcnspcpqkfttttcKeqjcgnbcxfe.c fjbcfcvqu.c qogsouqup
woq wsoa;cpqjbqobcpbbjb.cgqchbcnfjjbesoatttcNbcrbogcgqcgnbcrso.qr,ceqpb
qocgsigqbcfo.cvqqwb.cqugcsogqcgnbcxfe.ckqecfcvqoacgsjbcrsgncfocfsecqk
fhpqehb.cfggbogsqotcHugcgnbcxfe.crfpcbjigxcfo.cnbc quv.coqgcpbbcrnqcrfp
nfjjbesoatcSocgnbcnqupbcqocgnbcvbkgcnbcpfrcpqjbcqibocrso.qrp;cqocgnb
rso.qr-psvvpcrbebciqgpcqkcps wvx-vqqwsoacabefosujptcVsobocrfpcnuoacqug
qkcgnbcrso.qrptttcNbcwobrcsgcfvvchxcnbfegtcNbcgueob.cfrfxcfo.cpfgc.qro
qocgnbcpqkft

Obybe,cobybecnf.cnbckbvgcnsjpbvkcpqckbfekuvvxcfvqob!

Xbp,cnbckbvgcqo bcjqebcgnfgcnbcrquv.cibenfipc qjbcgqcnfgbcPqosf,coqr
gnfgcnbcnf.cjf.bcnbecjqebcjspbefhvbt

“Rnxcnf.cnbcaqobcgqcnbecgqchbackqecnbecgbfep?cRnfgcobb.cnf.cnbcgqciqspqo
nbecvskb?cQn,cgnbcjbfoobppcqkcsg!”

“Scrsvvcebjfsocfvqob,”cnbcpfs.cebpqvugbvx,c“fo.cpnbcpnfvvcoqgc qjbcgq
gnbciespqo!”

Ksybcjsougbpcvfgbecnbcefspb.cnspcnbf.crsgncfcpgefoabcpjsvbtcGnfgcrfpcf
pgefoabcgnquangt

“Ibenfipcsgcebfvvxcrquv.chbchbggbecsocPshbesf,”cnbcgnquangcpu..bovxt

Nbc quv.coqgcnfybcpfs.cnqrcvqoacnbcpfgcgnbebcrsgncyfaubcgnquangpcpueasoa
gnequancnspcjso.tcFvvcfgcqo bcgnbc.qqecqibob.cfo.c.quosfc fjbcsotcFg
ksepgcpnbcpgqq.cpgsvvcfo.cvqqwb.cfgcnsjckeqjcgnbc.qqerfx,cmupgcfpcnb
nf.c.qobcfgcPqosf;cgnbocpnbc fjbcsocfo.cpfgc.qrocsocgnbcpfjbcivf b
fpcxbpgbe.fx,cqocgnbc nfseckf soacnsjtcNbcvqqwb.cpsvbogvxcfo.cfvjqpg
yf fogvxcfgcnbet

“.qo’gchbcfoaex,cheqgnbe;cS’ybcqovxc qjbckqecqobcjsougb,”cpfs.c.quosft

Nbeckf bcvqqwb.cgnquangkuvchugcoqgcpgbeotcNbecbxbpcrbebchesangcfo.cpqkgt
Nbcpfrcgnfgcpnbcgqqcnf.c qjbcgqcnsjcrsgncvqybt

“Heqgnbe,coqrcScwoqrcfvv,c_fvv_tc.jsgescIeqwqksg ncnfpcbdivfsob.cfo.
gqv.cjbcbybexgnsoatcGnbxcfebcrqeexsoacfo.cibepb ugsoacxqucgnequancf
pguis.cfo.c qogbjigshvbcpupis sqottttc.jsgescIeqwqksg ncgqv.cjbcgnfg
gnbebcspcoqc.foabe,cfo.cgnfgcxqucfebcreqoacsocvqqwsoacuiqocsgcrsgncpu n
nqeeqetcSc.qo’gcgnsowcpq,cfo.cSckuvvxcuo.bepgfo.cnqrcso.saofogcxqucjupg
hb,cfo.cgnfgcgnfgcso.saofgsqocjfxcnfybcfcibejfobogcbkkb gcqocxqutcGnfg’p
rnfgcScfjcfkefs.cqktcFpckqecxquec uggsoacxquepbvkcqkkckeqjcup,cSc.qo’g
mu.abcxqu,cSc.qo’gcyboguebcgqcmu.abcxqu,cfo.ckqeasybcjbckqecnfysoa
hvfjb.cxquckqecsgtcSckbbvcgnfgcScgqq,cskcScnf.cpqcaebfgcfcgequhvb,
pnquv.cwbbicfrfxckeqjcbybexqobtcScpnfvvcgbvvcjqgnbecoqgnsoac_qkcgnsp_,
hugcScpnfvvcgfvwcfhqugcxquc qogsoufvvxcfo.cpnfvvcgbvvcnbeckeqjcxqucgnfg
xqucrsvvc qjbcybexcpqqotc.qo’gcrqeexcfhqugcnbe;c_S_crsvvcpbgcnbecjso.cfg
ebpg;chugc.qo’gcxqucgexcnbecgqqcju n-- qjbcqo bcfgcvbfpg;cebjbjhbecgnfg
pnbcspcxquecjqgnbetcFo.coqrcScnfybc qjbcpsjivxcgqcpfx”c(.quosfchbafo
gqcabgcui)c“gnfgcskcxqucpnquv.cobb.cjbcqecpnquv.cobb.tttcfvvcjxcvskbcqe
foxgnsoatttc fvvcjb,cfo.cS’vvc qjbtcAqq.-hxb!”

Pnbcgueob.cfheuigvxcfo.crbogcgqrfe.pcgnbc.qqet

“.quosf!”cEfpwqvoswqycpgqiib.cnbecfo.crbogcgqrfe.pcnbetc“GnfgcEfzujsnso,
.jsgescIeqwqksg n,cspcfcybexcaqq.ckbvvqrt”

.quosfckvupnb.cpvsangvxt

“Rbvv?”cpnbcfpwb.,crfsgsoacfcjqjbogt

“Nbcspc qjibgbog,cnfe.rqewsoa,cnqobpgcfo.c fifhvbcqkcebfvcvqybtttt
Aqq.-hxb,c.quosft”

.quosfckvupnb.c esjpqo,cgnbocpu..bovxcpnbcgqqwcfvfejt

“Hugcrnfgc.qbpcsgcjbfo,cheqgnbe?cFebcrbcebfvvxcifegsoackqecbybecgnfg
xqutttcasybcjbcpu ncfcifegsoacjbppfab?”

“Obybecjso.ttttcAqq.-hxbt”

Nbcgueob.cfrfx,cfo.crfvwb.cgqcgnbcrso.qrtcPnbcpgqq.cfcjqjbog,cvqqwb.cfg
nsjcuobfpsvx,cfo.crbogcqugcgequhvb.t

Oq,cnbcrfpcoqgc qv.cgqcnbetcGnbebcrfpcfocsopgfogc(gnbcybexcvfpgcqob)
rnbocnbcnf.cvqoab.cgqcgfwbcnbecsocnspcfejpcfo.c_pfxcaqq.-hxb_cgqcnbe,
fo.cbyboc_gqcgbvv_cnbe,chugcnbcnf.coqgc.feb.cbybocgqcgqu ncnbecnfo.t

“Fkgberfe.pcpnbcjfxcpnu..becrnbocpnbcebjbjhbepcgnfgcScbjhef b.cnbe,cfo.
rsvvckbbvcgnfgcScpgqvbcnbecwsppt”

“Fo.crquv.c_pnb_cpgfo.cgnfgcgbpg?”cnbcrbogcqocfckbrcjsougbpcvfgbecgq
nsjpbvktc“Oq,cpnbcrquv.o’g;casevpcvswbcgnfgc fo’gcpgfo.cgnsoap!cGnbx
obybec.qt”

Fo.cnbcgnquangcqkcPqosft

Gnbebcrfpcfchebfgncqkckebpncfseckeqjcgnbcrso.qrtcGnbc.fxvsangcrfp
kf.soatcNbcgqqwcuicnspc ficfo.crbogcqugt

Nbc quv.coqg,cqkc quepb,cfo.crquv.coqgc qops.becnqrcsvvcnbcrfptcHugcfvv
gnspc qogsoufvcfodsbgxcfo.cfaqoxcqkcjso.c quv.coqgchugcfkkb gcnsjtcFo.
skcnbcrbebcoqgcvxsoacsocnsanckbybecsgcrfpcibenfipcmupgchb fupbcgnsp
 qogsoufvcsoobecpgefsocnbvib.cgqcwbbicnsjcqocnspcvbapcfo.csociqppbppsqo
qkcnspckf uvgsbptcHugcgnspcfegsks sfvcbd sgbjbogc quv.coqgcvfpgcvqoat

Nbcrfo.beb.cfsjvbppvxtcGnbcpuocrfpcpbggsoatcFcpib sfvckqejcqkcjspbexcnf.
hbauocgqcqiiebppcnsjcqkcvfgbtcGnbebcrfpcoqgnsoaciqsaofog,coqgnsoacf ugb
fhqugcsg;chugcgnbebcrfpcfckbbvsoacqkcibejfobo b,cqkcbgbeosgxcfhqugcsg;
sgchequangcfckqebgfpgbcqkcnqibvbppcxbfepcqkcgnspc qv.cvbf.bocjspbex,cf
kqebgfpgbcqkcfocbgbeosgxc“qocfcplufebcxfe.cqkcpif bt”cGqrfe.pcbybosoa
gnspcpbopfgsqocupufvvxchbafocgqcrbsancqocnsjcjqebcnbfysvxt

“Rsgncgnspcs.sqgs ,ciuebvxcinxps fvcrbfwobpp,c.bibo.soacqocgnbcpuopbgcqe
pqjbgnsoa,cqobc fo’gcnbvic.qsoacpqjbgnsoacpguis.!cXqu’vvcaqcgqc.quosf,
fpcrbvvcfpcgqcPqosf,”cnbcjuggbeb.chsggbevxt

Nbcnbfe.cnspcofjbc fvvb.tcNbcvqqwb.cequo.tcVbhbzsfgoswqyceupnb.cuicgq
nsjt

“Qovxckfo x,cS’ybchbbocgqcxqueceqqjcvqqwsoackqecxqutcQovxckfo x,cpnb’p
 feesb.cqugcnbecivfo,cfo.cgfwbocfrfxcgnbc nsv.ebotcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcfo.
Scnfybcnf.cfcmqhcgqckso.cgnbjtcPnbcspcefiisoacqocfckexsoa-ifocfo.cjfwsoa
gnbc nsv.eboc.fo btcGnbc nsv.ebocfebc exsoatcGnbxcwbbicpgqiisoacfgcgnb
 eqpp-eqf.pcfo.csockeqogcqkcpnqip;cgnbeb’pcfc eqr.cqkckqqvpceuoosoa
fkgbecgnbjtc qjbcfvqoa!”

“Fo.cPqosf?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.cfodsqupvx,cnueexsoacfkgbecVbhbzsfgoswqyt

“Psjivxckefogs tcGnfgcsp,csg’pcoqgcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof’pckefogs ,chug
WfgbesofcSyfoqyof,cgnquancPqkxfcPbjxqoqyf’pckefogs cgqqtcHugcWfgbesof
Syfoqyofcspcfhpqvugbvxckefogs tcScgbvvcxqucpnbcspclusgbcjf.tcGnbx’vvchb
gfwbocgqcgnbciqvs btcXquc fockfo xcrnfgcfocbkkb gcgnfgcrsvvcnfybtttt
Gnbxcfebcqocgnbc fofvchfow,cobfecgnbches.abcoqr,coqgckfeckeqjcPqkxf
Pbjxqoqyof’p,clusgbc vqpbt”

Qocgnbc fofvchfowcobfecgnbches.abcfo.coqgcgrqcnqupbpcfrfxckeqjcgnbcqob
rnbebcPqosfcvq.ab.,cgnbebcrfpcfc eqr.cqkcibqivb,c qopspgsoacieso sifvvx
qkcauggbec nsv.ebotcGnbcnqfepbcheqwbocyqs bcqkcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofc quv.
hbcnbfe.ckeqjcgnbches.ab,cfo.csgc begfsovxcrfpcfcpgefoabcpib gf vb
vswbvxcgqcfggef gcfcpgebbgc eqr.tcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcsocnbecqv.c.ebpp
rsgncgnbcaebbocpnfrv,crbfesoacfcgqeocpgefrcnfg,c eupnb.csocfcns.bqupcrfx
qocqobcps.b,crfpcebfvvxckefogs tcPnbcrfpcbdnfupgb.cfo.chebfgnvbpptcNbe
rfpgb.c qopujigsybckf bcvqqwb.cjqebcpukkbesoacgnfocbybe,cfo.cso.bb.cqug
qkc.qqepcsocgnbcpuopnsobcfc qopujigsybcfvrfxpcvqqwpcrqepbcgnfocfgcnqjbt
Hugcnbecbd sgbjbogc.s.coqgckvfa,cfo.cbybexcjqjbogcnbecseesgfgsqocaebr
jqebcsogbopbtcPnbceupnb.cfgcgnbc nsv.ebo,cpnqugb.cfgcgnbj,c qfdb.
gnbj,cgqv.cgnbjchbkqebcgnbc eqr.cnqrcgqc.fo bcfo.crnfgcgqcpsoa,chbafo
bdivfsosoacgqcgnbjcrnxcsgcrfpcob bppfex,cfo.c.esybocgqc.bpibefgsqochx
gnbsecoqgcuo.bepgfo.soa,chbfgcgnbjttttcGnbocpnbcrquv.cjfwbcfceupncfgcgnb
 eqr.;cskcpnbcoqgs b.cfoxc.b bogvxc.ebppb.cibepqocpgqiisoacgqcvqqw,cpnb
sjjb.sfgbvxcfiibfvb.cgqcnsjcgqcpbbcrnfgcgnbpbc nsv.eboc“keqjcfcabogbbv,
qobcjfxcpfxcfespgq efgs ,cnqupb”cnf.chbbochequangcgqtcSkcpnbcnbfe.
vfuangbecqecmbbesoacsocgnbc eqr.,cpnbcrquv.ceupncfgcqo bcfgcgnbcp qkkbep
fo.chbasocplufhhvsoacrsgncgnbjtcPqjbcibqivbcvfuanb.,cqgnbepcpnqqwcgnbse
nbf.p,chugcbybexqobckbvgc uesqupcfgcgnbcpsangcqkcgnbcjf.rqjfocrsgncgnb
kesangbob.c nsv.ebotcGnbckexsoa-ifocqkcrns ncVbhbzsfgoswqycnf.cpiqwbo
rfpcoqgcgnbeb,cfgcvbfpgcEfpwqvoswqyc.s.coqgcpbbcsgtcHugcsopgbf.cqk
efiisoacqocgnbcifo,cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofchbafoc vfiisoacnbecrfpgb.cnfo.p,
rnbocpnbcjf.bcVs.fcfo.cWqvxfc.fo bcfo.cIqvbowfcpsoatcPnbcgqqcmqsob.cso
gnbcpsoasoa,chugcheqwbc.qrocfgcgnbcpb qo.coqgbcrsgncfckbfekuvc quan,
rns ncjf.bcnbec uepbcsoc.bpifsecfo.cbybocpnb.cgbfeptcRnfgcjf.bcnbecjqpg
kuesqupcrfpcgnbcrbbisoacfo.cgbeeqecqkcWqvxfcfo.cVs.ftcPqjbcbkkqegcnf.
hbbocjf.bcgqc.ebppcgnbc nsv.ebocuicfpcpgebbgcpsoabepcfebc.ebppb.tcGnb
hqxcnf.cqocfcguehfocjf.bcqkcpqjbgnsoaceb.cfo.crnsgbcgqcvqqwcvswbcfcGuewt
Gnbebcnf.chbbocoqc qpgujbckqecVs.f;cpnbcpsjivxcnf.cfceb.cwosggb.c fi,
qecefgnbecfcosangc ficgnfgcnf.chbvqoab.cgqcJfejbvf.qy,c.b qefgb.crsgn
fcheqwbocisb bcqkcrnsgbcqpges nckbfgnbe,crns ncnf.chbbocWfgbesof
Syfoqyof’pcaefo.jqgnbe’pcfo.cnf.chbbociebpbeyb.cfpcfckfjsvxciqppbppsqot
Iqvbowfcrfpcsocnbecbybex.fxc.ebpp;cpnbcvqqwb.csocgsjs.cibeivbdsgxcfgcnbe
jqgnbe,cfo.cwbigcfgcnbecps.b,cns.soacnbecgbfeptcPnbc.sjvxcebfvspb.cnbe
jqgnbe’pc qo.sgsqo,cfo.cvqqwb.cuobfpsvxcfhqugcnbetcPnbcrfpcgbeeshvx
kesangbob.cqkcgnbcpgebbgcfo.cgnbc eqr.tcPqosfckqvvqrb.cWfgbesof
Syfoqyof,crbbisoacfo.chbpbb nsoacnbecgqcebgueocnqjb,chugcWfgbesof
Syfoqyofcrfpcoqgcgqchbcibepuf.b.t

“Vbfybcqkk,cPqosf,cvbfybcqkk,”cpnbcpnqugb.,cpibfwsoackfpg,cifogsoacfo.
 quansoatc“Xquc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcxqucfpw;cxqucfebcvswbcfc nsv.!cS’yb
gqv.cxquchbkqebcgnfgcScfjcoqgc qjsoachf wcgqcgnfgc.euowbocAbejfotcVbg
bybexqob,cvbgcfvvcIbgbephueacpbbcgnbc nsv.ebochbaasoacsocgnbcpgebbgp,
gnquancgnbseckfgnbecrfpcfocnqoquefhvbcjfocrnqcpbeyb.cfvvcnspcvskbcso
geugncfo.cks.bvsgx,cfo.cqobcjfxcpfxc.sb.csocgnbcpbeys bt”c(Wfgbesof
Syfoqyofcnf.chxcoqrcsoybogb.cgnspckfogfpgs cpgqexcfo.cgnqequanvx
hbvsbyb.csgt)c“Vbgcgnfgcrebg ncqkcfcabobefvcpbbcsg!cFo.cxqucfebcpsvvx,
Pqosf:crnfgcnfybcrbcgqcbfg?cGbvvcjbcgnfgtcRbcnfybcrqeesb.cxqucboquan,cS
rqo’gcaqcqocpq!cFn,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cspcgnfgcxqu?”cpnbc esb.,cpbbsoa
Efpwqvoswqycfo.ceupnsoacuicgqcnsjtc“Bdivfsocgqcgnspcpsvvxcasev,civbfpb,
gnfgcoqgnsoachbggbec quv.chbc.qob!cBybocqeafo-aeso.bepcbfeocgnbse
vsysoa,cfo.cbybexqobcrsvvcpbbcfgcqo bcgnfgcrbcfebc.skkbebog,cgnfgcrbcfeb
focnqoquefhvbcfo.chbebfyb.ckfjsvxceb.u b.cgqchbaafextcFo.cgnfgcabobefv
rsvvcvqpbcnspciqpg,cxqu’vvcpbb!cRbcpnfvvcibekqejcuo.becnspcrso.qrpcbybex
.fx,cfo.cskcgnbcGpfec.esybpchx,cS’vvckfvvcqocjxcwobbp,ciugcgnbc nsv.ebo
hbkqebcjb,cpnqrcgnbjcgqcnsj,cfo.cpfxc‘.bkbo.cupckfgnbet’cNbcspcgnb
kfgnbecqkcgnbckfgnbevbpp,cnbcspcjbe skuv,cnb’vvcieqgb gcup,cxqu’vv
pbb,cfo.cgnfgcrebg ncqkcfcabobefvttttcVs.f,c_gbobzcyqupc.eqsgb_!cWqvxf,
xqu’vvc.fo bcfafsotcRnxcfebcxqucrnsjibesoa?cRnsjibesoacfafso!cRnfg
febcxqucfkefs.cqk,cpguis.?cAqq.obpp,crnfgcfjcScgqc.qcrsgncgnbj,cEq.sqo
Eqjfoqysg n?cSkcxqucqovxcwobrcnqrcpguis.cgnbxcfeb!cRnfg’pcqobcgqc.qcrsgn
pu nc nsv.ebo?”

Fo.cpnb,cfvjqpgc exsoacnbepbvk--rns nc.s.coqgcpgqicnbecuosogbeeuigb.,
efis.ckvqrcqkcgfvw--iqsogb.cgqcgnbc exsoac nsv.ebotcEfpwqvoswqycgesb.
gqcibepuf.bcnbecgqcaqcnqjb,cfo.cbybocpfs.,cnqisoacgqcrqewcqocnbecyfosgx,
gnfgcsgcrfpcuopbbjvxckqecnbecgqchbcrfo.besoacfhqugcgnbcpgebbgpcvswb
focqeafo-aeso.be,cfpcpnbcrfpcsogbo.soacgqchb qjbcgnbcieso sifvcqkcf
hqfe.soa-p nqqvt

“Fchqfe.soa-p nqqv,cnf-nf-nf!cFc fpgvbcsocgnbcfse,”c esb.cWfgbesof
Syfoqyof,cnbecvfuancbo.soacsocfc quantc“Oq,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cgnfg
.ebfjcspcqybe!cFvvcnfybckqepfwbocup!tttcFo.cgnfgcabobefvttttcXqucwoqr,
Eq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cScgnebrcfocsowiqgcfgcnsj--sgcnfiibob.cgqchbcpgfo.soa
socgnbcrfsgsoa-eqqjchxcgnbcifibecrnbebcxqucpsaocxquecofjbtcScreqgbcjx
ofjb,cgnebrcsgcfgcnsjcfo.cefocfrfxtcQn,cgnbcp quo.ebvp,cgnbcp quo.ebvp!
Hugcboquancqkcgnbj,coqrcS’vvcieqys.bckqecgnbc nsv.ebocjxpbvk,cScrqo’g
hqrc.qrocgqcfoxhq.x!cPnbcnfpcnf.cgqchbfecboquanckqecup!”cpnbciqsogb.
gqcPqosftc“Iqvbowf,cnqrcju ncnfybcxqucaqg?cPnqrcjb!cRnfg,cqovxcgrq
kfegnsoap!cQn,cgnbcjbfocrebg nbp!cGnbxcasybcupcoqgnsoa,cqovxceuocfkgbe
up,ciuggsoacgnbsecgqoaubpcqugtcGnbeb,crnfgcspcgnfgchvq wnbf.cvfuansoa
fg?”c(Pnbciqsogb.cgqcfcjfocsocgnbc eqr.t)c“Sg’pcfvvchb fupbcWqvxfcnbeb
spcpqcpguis.;cScnfybcpu ncfchqgnbecrsgncnsjtcRnfgc.qcxqucrfog,cIqvbowf?
GbvvcjbcsocKebo n,c_ifevbz-jqsckefoçfsp_tcRnx,cS’ybcgfuangcxqu,cxqucwoqr
pqjbcinefpbptcBvpbcnqrcfebcxqucgqcpnqrcgnfgcxqucfebcqkcaqq.ckfjsvx,crbvv
hequang-uic nsv.ebo,cfo.coqgcfgcfvvcvswbcqgnbecqeafo-aeso.bep?cRbcfebo’g
aqsoacgqcnfybcfcIuo ncfo.cMu.xcpnqrcsocgnbcpgebbg,chugcgqcpsoacfcabogbbv
pqoattttcFn,cxbp,tttcRnfgcfebcrbcgqcpsoa?cXqucwbbiciuggsoacjbcqug,
hugcrbtttcxqucpbb,crbcfebcpgfo.soacnbeb,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cgqckso.
pqjbgnsoacgqcpsoacfo.cabgcjqobx,cpqjbgnsoacWqvxfc foc.fo bcgqttttcKqe,
fpcxquc fockfo x,cquecibekqejfo bcspcfvvcsjieqjiguttttcRbcjupgcgfvwcsg
qybecfo.cebnbfepbcsgcfvvcgnqequanvx,cfo.cgnbocrbcpnfvvcaqcgqcObypwx,
rnbebcgnbebcfebckfecjqebcibqivbcqkcaqq.cpq sbgx,cfo.crbcpnfvvchbcoqgs b.
fgcqo btcVs.fcwoqrpc‘JxcYsvvfab’cqovx,coqgnsoachugc‘JxcYsvvfab,’cfo.
bybexqobcpsoapcgnfgtcRbcjupgcpsoacpqjbgnsoackfecjqebcabogbbvttttcRbvv,
nfybcxqucgnquangcqkcfoxgnsoa,cIqvbowf?cSkcqovxcxqu’.cnbvicxquecjqgnbe!
Jxcjbjqex’pclusgbcaqob,cqecScpnquv.cnfybcgnquangcqkcpqjbgnsoatcRbcebfvvx
 fo’gcpsoac‘FocNuppfet’cFn,cvbgcupcpsoacsocKebo n,c‘ solcpqup,’cScnfyb
gfuangcsgcxqu,cScnfybcgfuangcsgcxqutcFo.cfpcsgcspcsocKebo n,cibqivbcrsvv
pbbcfgcqo bcgnfgcxqucfebc nsv.ebocqkcaqq.ckfjsvx,cfo.cgnfgcrsvvchbcju n
jqebcgqu nsoattttcXqucjsangcpsoac‘Jfevhqequancp’bocyf-g-bocaubeeb,’
kqecgnfg’pclusgbcfc nsv.’pcpqoacfo.cspcpuoacfpcfcvuvvfhxcsocfvvcgnb
fespgq efgs cnqupbpt

“_Jfevhqequancp’bocyf-g-bocaubeebcObcpfsgclufo.cebysbo.ef_ttt”
cpnbchbafocpsoasoatc“Hugcoq,chbggbecpsoac‘ solcpqupt’cOqr,cWqvxf,cxque
nfo.pcqocxquecnsip,cjfwbcnfpgb,cfo.cxqu,cVs.f,cwbbicgueosoacgnbcqgnbe
rfx,cfo.cIqvbowfcfo.cScrsvvcpsoacfo.c vficquecnfo.p!

“_ solcpqup,c solcpqupcIquecjqogbecoqgebcjbofab_t”

( quan- quan- quan!)c“Pbgcxquec.ebppcpgefsang,cIqvbowf,csg’pcpvsiib.
.qrocqocxquecpnquv.bep,”cpnbcqhpbeyb.,cifogsoackeqjc quansoatc“Oqrcsg’p
ifegs uvfevxcob bppfexcgqchbnfybcos bvxcfo.cabogbbvvx,cgnfgcfvvcjfx
pbbcgnfgcxqucfebcrbvv-hqeoc nsv.ebotcScpfs.cfgcgnbcgsjbcgnfgcgnbchq.s b
pnquv.chbc ugcvqoabe,cfo.cjf.bcqkcgrqcrs.gnptcSgcrfpcxqueckfuvg,cPqosf,
rsgncxquecf.ys bcgqcjfwbcsgcpnqegbe,cfo.coqrcxqucpbbcgnbc nsv.cspclusgb
.bkqejb.chxcsgttttcRnx,cxqu’ebcfvvc exsoacfafso!cRnfg’pcgnbcjfggbe,
pguis.p?c qjb,cWqvxf,chbasotcJfwbcnfpgb,cjfwbcnfpgb!cQn,crnfgcfo
uohbfefhvbc nsv.!

“ solcpqup,c solcpqupt

“Fciqvs bjfocfafso!cRnfgc.qcxqucrfog?”

Fciqvs bjfocrfpcso.bb.ckqe soacnspcrfxcgnequancgnbc eqr.tcHugcfgcgnfg
jqjbogcfcabogvbjfocsoc sysvsfocuoskqejcfo.cfocqybe qfg--fcpqvs.-vqqwsoa
qkks sfvcqkcfhqugckskgxcrsgncfc.b qefgsqocqocnspcob wc(rns nc.bvsangb.
WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfo.cnf.csgpcbkkb gcqocgnbciqvs bjfo)--fiieqf nb.cfo.
rsgnqugcfcrqe.cnfo.b.cnbecfcaebbocgnebb-equhvbcoqgbtcNspckf bcrqeb
fcvqqwcqkcabousobcpxjifgnxtcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcgqqwcsgcfo.cafybcnsjcf
iqvsgb,cbyboc bebjqosqup,chqrt

“Scgnfowcxqu,cnqoqueb.cpse,”cpnbchbafocvqkgsvxtc“Gnbc fupbpcgnfgcnfyb
so.u b.cupc(gfwbcgnbcjqobx,cIqvbowf:cxqucpbbcgnbebcfebcabobequpcfo.
nqoquefhvbcibqivbcrnqcfebcebf.xcgqcnbvicfciqqecabogvbrqjfocsoc.spgebpp)t
Xqucpbb,cnqoqueb.cpse,cgnbpbcqeinfopcqkcaqq.ckfjsvx--Scjsangcbybocpfxcqk
fespgq efgs c qoob gsqop--fo.cgnfgcrebg ncqkcfcabobefvcpfgcbfgsoa
aequpbtttcfo.cpgfjib.cfgcjxc.spguehsoacnsjtc‘Xquecbd bvvbo x,’cScpfs.,
‘ieqgb gcgnbcqeinfop,ckqecxqucwobrcjxcvfgbcnuphfo.,cPbjxqocZfnfeqysg n,
fo.cqocgnbcybexc.fxcqkcnspc.bfgncgnbchfpbpgcqkcp quo.ebvpcpvfo.beb.cnsp
qovxc.fuangbet’tttcGnfgciqvs bjfocfafso!cIeqgb gcjb,”cpnbc esb.cgqcgnb
qkks sfvtc“Rnxcspcgnfgciqvs bjfocb.asoacuicgqcjb?cRbcnfybcqovxcmupgceuo
frfxckeqjcqobcqkcgnbjtcRnfgc.qcxqucrfog,ckqqv?”

“Sg’pckqehs..bocsocgnbcpgebbgptcXqucjupgo’gcjfwbcfc.spguehfo bt”

“Sg’pcxqu’ebcjfwsoacfc.spguehfo btcSg’pcmupgcgnbcpfjbcfpcskcScrbeb
aeso.soacfocqeafotcRnfgchupsobppcspcsgcqkcxquep?”

“Xqucnfybcgqcabgcfcvs bo bckqecfocqeafo,cfo.cxqucnfybo’gcaqgcqob,cfo.cso
gnfgcrfxcxquc qvvb gcfc eqr.tcRnbebc.qcxqucvq.ab?”

“Rnfg,cfcvs bopb?”crfsvb.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyoftc“Schuesb.cjxcnuphfo.
gq-.fxtcRnfgcobb.cqkcfcvs bopb?”

“ fvjcxquepbvk,cjf.fj,c fvjcxquepbvk,”chbafocgnbcqkks sfvtc“ qjbcfvqoa;
Scrsvvcbp qegcxquttttcGnspcspcoqcivf bckqecxqucsocgnbc eqr.tcXqucfeb
svvt”

“Nqoqueb.cpse,cnqoqueb.cpse,cxquc.qo’gcwoqr,”cp ebfjb.cWfgbesof
Syfoqyoftc“RbcfebcaqsoacgqcgnbcObypwxttttcPqosf,cPqosf!cRnbebcspcpnb?
Pnbcspc exsoacgqq!cRnfg’pcgnbcjfggbecrsgncxqucfvv?cWqvxf,cVs.f,crnbeb
febcxqucaqsoa?”cpnbc esb.cpu..bovxcsocfvfejtc“Qn,cpsvvxc nsv.ebo!cWqvxf,
Vs.f,crnbebcfebcgnbxcqkkcgq?ttt”

Wqvxfcfo.cVs.f,cp feb.cqugcqkcgnbsecrsgpchxcgnbc eqr.,cfo.cgnbse
jqgnbe’pcjf.ciefowp,cpu..bovxcpbszb.cbf ncqgnbechxcgnbcnfo.,cfo.cefocqkk
fgcgnbcpsangcqkcgnbciqvs bjfocrnqcrfogb.cgqcgfwbcgnbjcfrfxcpqjbrnbebt
Rbbisoacfo.crfsvsoa,ciqqecWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcefocfkgbecgnbjtcPnbcrfp
fcisgbqupcfo.cuopbbjvxcpib gf vb,cfpcpnbcefo,crbbisoacfo.cifogsoackqe
hebfgntcPqosfcfo.cIqvbowfceupnb.cfkgbecgnbjt

“Hesoacgnbjchf w,chesoacgnbjchf w,cPqosf!cQncpguis.,cuoaefgbkuv
 nsv.ebo!tttcIqvbowf!c fg ncgnbjttttcSg’pckqecxquecpfwbpcSttt”

Pnbcpgujhvb.cfpcpnbcefocfo.ckbvvc.qrot

“Pnb’pc ugcnbepbvk,cpnb’pchvbb.soa!cQn,c.bfe!”c esb.cPqosf,chbo.soacqybe
nbet

Fvvcefocuicfo.c eqr.b.cfequo.tcEfpwqvoswqycfo.cVbhbzsfgoswqycrbebcgnb
ksepgcfgcnbecps.b,cgnbcqkks sfvcgqqcnfpgbob.cui,cfo.chbnso.cnsjcgnb
iqvs bjfocrnqcjuggbeb.,c“Hqgnbe!”crsgncfcabpguebcqkcsjifgsbo b,ckbbvsoa
gnfgcgnbcmqhcrfpcaqsoacgqchbcfcgequhvbpqjbcqobt

“Ifppcqo!cIfppcqo!”cnbcpfs.cgqcgnbc eqr.cgnfgciebppb.ckqerfe.t

“Pnb’pc.xsoa,”cpqjbqobcpnqugb.t

“Pnb’pcaqobcqugcqkcnbecjso.,”cpfs.cfoqgnbet

“Vqe.cnfybcjbe xcuiqocup,”cpfs.cfcrqjfo,c eqppsoacnbepbvktc“Nfybcgnbx
 fuangcgnbcvsggvbcasevcfo.cgnbchqx?cGnbx’ebchbsoachequangchf w,cgnb
bv.becqob’pcaqgcgnbjttttcFn,cgnbcofuangxcsjip!”

Rnbocgnbxcbdfjsob.cWfgbesofcSyfoqyofc febkuvvx,cgnbxcpfrcgnfgcpnbcnf.
oqgc ugcnbepbvkcfafsopgcfcpgqob,cfpcPqosfcgnquang,chugcgnfgcgnbchvqq.
gnfgcpgfsob.cgnbcifybjbogceb.crfpckeqjcnbec nbpgt

“S’ybcpbbocgnfgchbkqeb,”cjuggbeb.cgnbcqkks sfvcgqcEfpwqvoswqycfo.
Vbhbzsfgoswqy;c“gnfg’pc qopujigsqo;cgnbchvqq.ckvqrpcfo.c nqwbpcgnb
ifgsbogtcScpfrcgnbcpfjbcgnsoacrsgncfcebvfgsybcqkcjxcqrocoqgcvqoacfaqttt
obfevxcfcisogcqkchvqq.,cfvvcsocfcjsougbttttcRnfg’pcgqchbc.qobcgnquan?
Pnbcspc.xsoat”

“Gnspcrfx,cgnspcrfx,cgqcjxceqqj!”cPqosfcsjivqeb.tc“Scvsybcnbeb!tttcPbb,
gnfgcnqupb,cgnbcpb qo.ckeqjcnbebttttc qjbcgqcjb,cjfwbcnfpgb,”cpnbcgueob.
keqjcqobcgqcgnbcqgnbetc“Pbo.ckqecgnbc.q gqe!cQn,c.bfe!”

Gnfowpcgqcgnbcqkks sfv’pcbkkqegp,cgnspcivfocrfpcf.qigb.,cgnbciqvs bjfo
bybocnbvisoacgqc feexcWfgbesofcSyfoqyoftcPnbcrfpc feesb.cgqcPqosf’p
eqqj,cfvjqpgcuo qop squp,cfo.cvfs.cqocgnbchb.tcGnbchvqq.crfpcpgsvv
kvqrsoa,chugcpnbcpbbjb.cgqchbc qjsoacgqcnbepbvktcEfpwqvoswqy,
Vbhbzsfgoswqy,cfo.cgnbcqkks sfvcf  qjifosb.cPqosfcsogqcgnbceqqjcfo.crbeb
kqvvqrb.chxcgnbciqvs bjfo,crnqcksepgc.eqybchf wcgnbc eqr.crns nckqvvqrb.
gqcgnbcybexc.qqetcIqvbowfc fjbcsocnqv.soacWqvxfcfo.cVs.f,crnq
rbebcgebjhvsoacfo.crbbisoatcPbybefvcibepqopc fjbcsocgqqckeqjcgnb
Wfibeofujqyp’ceqqj;cgnbcvfo.vqe.,cfcvfjbcqob-bxb.cjfocqkcpgefoab
fiibfefo bcrsgncrnspwbepcfo.cnfsecgnfgcpgqq.cuicvswbcfcheupn,cnsp
rskb,cfcrqjfocrsgncfocbybevfpgsoavxcp feb.cbdiebppsqo,cfo.cpbybefv
qibo-jqugnb.c nsv.ebocrsgncrqo.be-pgeu wckf bptcFjqoacgnbpb,
Pys.esafïvqycpu..bovxcjf.bcnspcfiibfefo btcEfpwqvoswqycvqqwb.cfgcnsj
rsgncpueiespb,coqgcuo.bepgfo.soacrnbebcnbcnf.c qjbckeqjcfo.coqgcnfysoa
oqgs b.cnsjcsocgnbc eqr.tcFc.q gqecfo.ciesbpgcrqebcpiqwbocqktcGnb
qkks sfvcrnspibeb.cgqcEfpwqvoswqycgnfgcnbcgnquangcsgcrfpcgqqcvfgbcoqr
kqecgnbc.q gqe,chugcnbcqe.beb.cnsjcgqchbcpbogckqetcWfibeofujqycefo
nsjpbvkt

JbfornsvbcWfgbesofcSyfoqyofcnf.cebafsob.cnbechebfgntcGnbchvbb.soac bfpb.
kqecfcgsjbtcPnbcvqqwb.crsgncps wchugcsogbogcfo.cibobgefgsoacbxbpcfg
Pqosf,crnqcpgqq.cifvbcfo.cgebjhvsoa,crsisoacgnbcprbfgckeqjcnbecheqrcrsgn
fcnfo.wbe nsbktcFgcvfpgcpnbcfpwb.cgqchbcefspb.tcGnbxcpfgcnbecuicqocgnb
hb.,cpuiiqegsoacnbecqochqgncps.bpt

“Rnbebcfebcgnbc nsv.ebo?”cpnbcpfs.csocfckfsogcyqs btc“Xqu’ybchequang
gnbj,cIqvbowf?cQncgnbcpsvvsbp!cRnxc.s.cxquceuocfrfxttttcQ n!”

Qo bcjqebcnbecife nb.cvsipcrbebc qybeb.crsgnchvqq.tcPnbcjqyb.cnbecbxbp,
vqqwsoacfhqugcnbet

“Pqcgnfg’pcnqrcxqucvsyb,cPqosf!cObybecqo bcnfybcSchbbocsocxqueceqqjt”

Pnbcvqqwb.cfgcnbecrsgncfckf bcqkcpukkbesoat

“Rbcnfybchbbocxqueceuso,cPqosftcIqvbowf,cVs.f,cWqvxf,c qjbcnbeb!cRbvv,
nbebcgnbxcfeb,cPqosf,cgfwbcgnbjcfvv!cScnfo.cgnbjcqybecgqcxqu,cS’ybcnf.
boquan!cGnbchfvvcspcqybet”c( quan!)c“Vfxcjbc.qro,cvbgcjbc.sbcsocibf bt”

Gnbxcvfs.cnbechf wcqocgnbcisvvqrt

“Rnfg,cgnbciesbpg?cSc.qo’gcrfogcnsjtcXqucnfybo’gcaqgcfcequhvbcgqcpifebt
ScnfybcoqcpsoptcAq.cjupgckqeasybcjbcrsgnqugcgnfgtcNbcwoqrpcnqrcScnfyb
pukkbeb.ttttcFo.cskcNbcrqo’gckqeasybcjb,cSc.qo’gc feb!”

Pnbcpfowcjqebcfo.cjqebcsogqcuobfpxc.bvsesujtcFgcgsjbpcpnbcpnu..beb.,
gueob.cnbecbxbpckeqjcps.bcgqcps.b,ceb qaospb.cbybexqobckqecfcjsougb,
hugcfgcqo bcpfowcsogqc.bvsesujcfafsotcNbechebfgnsoacrfpcnqfepbcfo.
.skks uvg,cgnbebcrfpcfcpqegcqkcefggvbcsocnbecgneqfgt

“Scpfs.cgqcnsj,cxquecbd bvvbo x,”cpnbcbmf uvfgb.,cafpisoacfkgbecbf n
rqe.tc“GnfgcFjfvsfcVu.rsaqyof,cfn!cVs.f,cWqvxf,cnfo.pcqocxquecnsip,
jfwbcnfpgb!c_Avsppbz,cavsppbz!cifpc.bchfplub!_cGficrsgncxquecnbbvp,chbcf
aef bkuvc nsv.!

“_.ucnfpgc.sfjfogbocuo.cIbevbo_

“Rnfgcobdg?cGnfg’pcgnbcgnsoacgqcpsoat

“_.ucnfpgc.sbcp nöopgbocFuabocJä. nbo,crfpcrsvvpgc.ucjbne?_

“Rnfgcfocs.bf!c_Rfpcrsvvpgc.ucjbne?_cRnfgcgnsoapcgnbckqqvcsoybogp!cFn,
xbp!

“Socgnbcnbfgcqkcjs..fxcsocgnbcyfvbcqkc.fabpgfot

“Fn,cnqrcScvqyb.csg!cScvqyb.cgnfgcpqoacgqc.spgef gsqo,cIqvbowf!cXque
kfgnbe,cxqucwoqr,cupb.cgqcpsoacsgcrnbocrbcrbebcboafab.ttttcQncgnqpb
.fxp!cQncgnfg’pcgnbcgnsoackqecupcgqcpsoa!cNqrc.qbpcsgcaq?cS’yb
kqeaqggbotcEbjso.cjb!cNqrcrfpcsg?”

Pnbcrfpcysqvbogvxcbd sgb.cfo.cgesb.cgqcpsgcuitcFgcvfpg,csocfcnqeeshvx
nqfepb,cheqwbocyqs b,cpnbchbafo,cpnesbwsoacfo.cafpisoacfgcbybexcrqe.,
rsgncfcvqqwcqkcaeqrsoacgbeeqet

“Socgnbcnbfgcqkcjs..fx!tttcsocgnbcyfvb!tttcqkc.fabpgfo!tttcRsgncvbf.cso
jxchebfpg!ttt”

“Xquecbd bvvbo x!”cpnbcrfsvb.cpu..bovxcrsgncfcnbfeg-ebo.soacp ebfjcfo.
fckvqq.cqkcgbfep,c“ieqgb gcgnbcqeinfop!cXqucnfybchbbocgnbseckfgnbe’p
aubpgtttcqobcjfxcpfxcfespgq efgs tttt”cPnbcpgfegb.,cebafsosoa
 qop squpobpp,cfo.cafzb.cfgcfvvcrsgncfcpqegcqkcgbeeqe,chugcfgcqo b
eb qaospb.cPqosft

“Pqosf,cPqosf!”cpnbcfegs uvfgb.cpqkgvxcfo.c febppsoavx,cfpcgnquan
pueiespb.cgqckso.cnbecgnbebtc“Pqosfc.fevsoa,cfebcxqucnbeb,cgqq?”

Gnbxcvskgb.cnbecuicfafsot

“Boquan!cSg’pcqybe!cKfebrbvv,ciqqecgnsoa!cScfjc.qobckqe!cScfjcheqwbo!”
cpnbc esb.crsgncyso.s gsybc.bpifse,cfo.cnbecnbf.ckbvvcnbfysvxchf wcqocgnb
isvvqrt

Pnbcpfowcsogqcuo qop squpobppcfafso,chugcgnspcgsjbcsgc.s.coqgcvfpgcvqoat
Nbecifvb,cxbvvqr,crfpgb.ckf bc.eqiib.chf w,cnbecjqugnckbvvcqibo,cnbecvba
jqyb.c qoyuvpsybvx,cpnbcafybcfc.bbi,c.bbicpsancfo.c.sb.t

Pqosfckbvvcuiqocnbe,ckvuoacnbecfejpcfhqugcnbe,cfo.cebjfsob.cjqgsqovbpp
rsgncnbecnbf.ciebppb.cgqcgnbc.bf.crqjfo’pcrfpgb.chqpqjtcIqvbowfcgnebr
nbepbvkcfgcnbecjqgnbe’pckbbg,cwsppsoacgnbjcfo.crbbisoacysqvbogvxtcGnquan
Wqvxfcfo.cVs.fc.s.coqgcuo.bepgfo.crnfgcnf.cnfiibob.,cgnbxcnf.cfckbbvsoa
gnfgcsgcrfpcpqjbgnsoacgbeeshvb;cgnbxciugcgnbsecnfo.pcqocbf ncqgnbe’p
vsggvbcpnquv.bep,cpgfeb.cpgefsangcfgcqobcfoqgnbecfo.chqgncfgcqo bcqibob.
gnbsecjqugnpcfo.chbafocp ebfjsoatcGnbxcrbebchqgncpgsvvcsocgnbseckfo x
.ebpp;cqobcsocfcguehfo,cgnbcqgnbecsocgnbc ficrsgncgnbcqpges nckbfgnbet

Fo.cnqrc.s.c“gnbc begsks fgbcqkcjbesg”c qjbcgqchbcqocgnbchb.chbps.b
WfgbesofcSyfoqyof?cSgcvfxcgnbebchxcgnbcisvvqr;cEfpwqvoswqycpfrcsgt

Nbcrfvwb.cfrfxcgqcgnbcrso.qrtcVbhbzsfgoswqycpwsiib.cuicgqcnsjt

“Pnbcspc.bf.,”cnbcpfs.t

“Eq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cScjupgcnfybcgrqcrqe.pcrsgncxqu,”cpfs.cPys.esafïvqy,
 qjsoacuicgqcgnbjt

Vbhbzsfgoswqycfgcqo bcjf.bceqqjckqecnsjcfo.c.bvs fgbvxcrsgn.ebrt
Pys.esafïvqyc.ebrcEfpwqvoswqyckuegnbecfrfxt

“Scrsvvcuo.begfwbcfvvcgnbcfeefoabjbogp,cgnbckuobefvcfo.cgnfgtcXqucwoqr
sg’pcfclubpgsqocqkcjqobxcfo.,cfpcScgqv.cxqu,cScnfybcivbogxcgqcpifebtcS
rsvvciugcgnqpbcgrqcvsggvbcqobpcfo.cIqvbowfcsogqcpqjbcaqq.cqeinfocfpxvuj,
fo.cScrsvvcpbggvbckskgbbocnuo.eb.cequhvbpcgqchbcifs.cgqcbf ncqoc qjsoa
qkcfab,cpqcgnfgcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcobb.cnfybcoqcfodsbgxcfhqugcgnbjtcFo.cS
rsvvciuvvcnbecqugcqkcgnbcju.cgqq,ckqecpnbcspcfcaqq.casev,cspo’gcpnb?cPq
gbvvcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcgnfgcgnfgcspcnqrcScfjcpibo.soacnbecgbocgnqupfo.t”

“Rnfgcspcxquecjqgsybckqecpu nchbobyqvbo b?”cfpwb.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“Fn!cxqucp bigs fvcibepqo!”cvfuanb.cPys.esafïvqytc“Scgqv.cxqucScnf.coq
obb.cqkcgnfgcjqobxtcRqo’gcxqucf.jsgcgnfgcsg’pcpsjivxc.qobckeqjcnujfosgx?
Pnbcrfpo’gc‘fcvqupb,’cxqucwoqr”c(nbciqsogb.cgqcgnbc qeobecrnbebcgnb
.bf.crqjfocvfx),c“rfpcpnb,cvswbcpqjbcqv.cifroheqwbecrqjfo?c qjb,cxqu’vv
faebb,cspcVuznsocgqcaqcqocvsysoa,cfo.c.qsoacrs wb.cgnsoapcqecspcpnbcgq
.sb?cFo.cskcSc.s.o’gcnbvicgnbj,cIqvbowfcrquv.caqcgnbcpfjbcrfxt”

Nbcpfs.cgnspcrsgncfocfsecqkcfcpqegcqkcafxcrsowsoacpvxobpp,cwbbisoacnsp
bxbpcksdb.cqocEfpwqvoswqy,crnqcgueob.crnsgbcfo.c qv.,cnbfesoacnspcqro
inefpbp,cpiqwbocgqcPqosftcNbclus wvxcpgbiib.chf wcfo.cvqqwb.crsv.vxcfg
Pys.esafïvqyt

“Nqrc.qcxqucwoqr?”cnbcrnspibeb.,cnfe.vxcfhvbcgqchebfgnbt

“Rnx,cScvq.abcnbebcfgcJf.fjbcEbppvs n’p,cgnbcqgnbecps.bcqkcgnbcrfvvt
NbebcspcWfibeofujqy,cfo.cgnbebcvsybpcJf.fjbcEbppvs n,cfocqv.cfo.c.byqgb.
kesbo.cqkcjsobtcScfjcfcobsanhquet”

“Xqu?”

“Xbp,”c qogsoub.cPys.esafïvqy,cpnfwsoacrsgncvfuangbetc“Scfppuebcxqu
qocjxcnqoque,c.bfecEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cgnfgcxqucnfybcsogbebpgb.cjb
boqejqupvxtcScgqv.cxqucrbcpnquv.chb qjbckesbo.p,cSckqebgqv.csgtcRbvv,
nbebcrbcnfybtcFo.cxqucrsvvcpbbcrnfgcfocf  qjjq.fgsoacibepqocScfjtcXqu’vv
pbbcgnfgcxquc focabgcqocrsgncjb!”




IFEGcYS



 NFIGBEcS

Fcpgefoabcibesq.chbafockqecEfpwqvoswqy:csgcrfpcfpcgnquancfckqacnf.
kfvvbocuiqocnsjcfo.crefiib.cnsjcsocfc.ebfexcpqvsgu.bckeqjcrns ncgnbeb
rfpcoqcbp fibtcEb fvvsoacgnfgcibesq.cvqoacfkgbe,cnbchbvsbyb.cgnfgcnsp
jso.cnf.chbboc vqu.b.cfgcgsjbp,cfo.cgnfgcsgcnf.c qogsoub.cpq,crsgn
sogbeyfvp,cgsvvcgnbcksofvc fgfpgeqinbtcNbcrfpc qoyso b.cgnfgcnbcnf.chbbo
jspgfwbocfhqugcjfoxcgnsoapcfgcgnfgcgsjb,ckqecsopgfo bcfpcgqcgnbc.fgb
qkc begfsocbybogptcFoxrfx,crnbocnbcgesb.cvfgbecqocgqcisb bcnsp
eb qvvb gsqopcgqabgnbe,cnbcvbfeogcfcaebfgc.bfvcfhqugcnsjpbvkckeqjcrnfg
qgnbecibqivbcgqv.cnsjtcNbcnf.cjsdb.cuicso s.bogpcfo.cnf.cbdivfsob.
bybogpcfpc.ubcgqc se ujpgfo bpcrns ncbdspgb.cqovxcsocnspcsjfasofgsqotcFg
gsjbpcnbcrfpcfciebxcgqcfaqosbpcqkcjqehs.cuobfpsobpp,cfjquogsoacpqjbgsjbp
gqcifos tcHugcnbcebjbjhbeb.,cgqq,cjqjbogp,cnquep,cibenfipcrnqvbc.fxp,
qkc qjivbgbcfifgnx,crns nc fjbcuiqocnsjcfpcfcebf gsqockeqjcnspciebysqup
gbeeqecfo.cjsangchbc qjifeb.crsgncgnbcfhoqejfvcsopbopshsvsgx,cpqjbgsjbp
pbbocsocgnbc.xsoatcNbcpbbjb.cgqchbcgexsoacsocgnfgcvfggbecpgfabcgqcbp fib
keqjcfckuvvcfo.c vbfecuo.bepgfo.soacqkcnspciqpsgsqotc begfsocbppbogsfv
kf gpcrns ncebluseb.csjjb.sfgbc qops.befgsqocrbebcifegs uvfevxcsewpqjb
gqcnsjtcNqrcavf.cnbcrquv.cnfybchbbocgqchbckebbckeqjcpqjbc febp,cgnb
obavb gcqkcrns ncrquv.cnfybcgnebfgbob.cnsjcrsgnc qjivbgb,csobysgfhvb
eusot

Nbcrfpcifegs uvfevxcrqeesb.cfhqugcPys.esafïvqy,cnbcjsangchbcpfs.cgqchb
ibejfobogvxcgnsowsoacqkcPys.esafïvqytcKeqjcgnbcgsjbcqkcPys.esafïvqy’p
gqqcjbof soacfo.cuojspgfwfhvbcrqe.pcsocPqosf’pceqqjcfgcgnbcjqjbogcqk
WfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pc.bfgn,cgnbcoqejfvcrqewsoacqkcnspcjso.cpbbjb.cgq
hebfwc.qrotcHugcfvgnquancgnspcobrckf gc fupb.cnsjcbdgebjbcuobfpsobpp,
EfpwqvoswqycrfpcsocoqcnueexckqecfocbdivfofgsqocqkcsgtcFgcgsjbp,ckso.soa
nsjpbvkcsocfcpqvsgfexcfo.cebjqgbcifegcqkcgnbcgqro,csocpqjbcrebg nb.
bfgsoa-nqupb,cpsggsoacfvqobcvqpgcsocgnquang,cnfe.vxcwoqrsoacnqrcnbcnf.
 qjbcgnbeb,cnbcpu..bovxcgnquangcqkcPys.esafïvqytcNbceb qaospb.
pu..bovx,c vbfevx,cfo.crsgnc.spjfxcgnfgcnbcquangcfgcqo bcgqc qjbcgqcfo
uo.bepgfo.soacrsgncgnfgcjfocfo.cgqcjfwbcrnfgcgbejpcnbc quv.tcRfvwsoa
qugps.bcgnbc sgxcafgbpcqobc.fx,cnbciqpsgsybvxckfo sb.cgnfgcgnbxcnf.
ksdb.cfcjbbgsoacgnbeb,cgnfgcnbcrfpcrfsgsoackqecPys.esafïvqytcFoqgnbe
gsjbcnbcrqwbcuichbkqebc.fxhebfwcvxsoacqocgnbcaequo.cuo.becpqjbchupnbp
fo.c quv.coqgcfgcksepgcuo.bepgfo.cnqrcnbcnf.c qjbcgnbebt

Hugc.uesoacgnbcgrqcqecgnebbc.fxpcfkgbecWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pc.bfgn,cnb
nf.cgrqcqecgnebbcgsjbpcjbgcPys.esafïvqycfgcPqosf’pcvq.asoa,crnbebcnb
nf.caqobcfsjvbppvxckqecfcjqjbogtcGnbxcbd nfoab.cfckbrcrqe.pcfo.cjf.bcoq
ebkbebo bcgqcgnbcysgfvcpuhmb g,cfpcgnquancgnbxcrbebcgf sgvxcfaebb.coqg
gqcpibfwcqkcsgckqecfcgsjbt

WfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pchq.xcrfpcpgsvvcvxsoacsocgnbc qkkso,cPys.esafïvqycrfp
hupxcjfwsoacfeefoabjbogpckqecgnbckuobefvtcPqosfcgqqcrfpcybexchupxtcFg
gnbsecvfpgcjbbgsoacPys.esafïvqycsokqejb.cEfpwqvoswqycgnfgcnbcnf.cjf.b
focfeefoabjbog,cfo.cfcybexcpfgspkf gqexcqob,ckqecWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’p
 nsv.ebo;cgnfgcnbcnf.,cgnequanc begfsoc qoob gsqop,cpu  bb.b.csocabggsoa
nqv.cqkc begfsocibepqofabpchxcrnqpbcnbvicgnbcgnebbcqeinfopc quv.chbcfg
qo bcivf b.csocybexcpusgfhvbcsopgsgugsqop;cgnfgcgnbcjqobxcnbcnf.cpbggvb.
qocgnbjcnf.chbbocqkcaebfgcfppspgfo b,cfpcsgcspcju ncbfpsbecgqcivf b
qeinfopcrsgncpqjbcieqibegxcgnfoc.bpgsgugbcqobptcNbcpfs.cpqjbgnsoa
gqqcfhqugcPqosfcfo.cieqjspb.cgqc qjbcnsjpbvkcsocfc.fxcqecgrqcgqcpbb
Efpwqvoswqy,cjbogsqosoacgnfgc“nbcrquv.cvswbcgqc qopuvgcrsgncnsj,cgnfg
gnbebcrbebcgnsoapcgnbxcjupgcgfvwcqybetttt”

Gnspc qoybepfgsqocgqqwcivf bcsocgnbcifppfabcqocgnbcpgfseptcPys.esafïvqy
vqqwb.csogbogvxcfgcEfpwqvoswqycfo.cpu..bovx,cfkgbecfchesbkcifupb,
.eqiisoacnspcyqs b,cfpwb.:c“Hugcnqrcspcsg,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n;cxqu
.qo’gcpbbjcxquepbvk?cXqucvqqwcfo.cxqucvspgbo,chugcxquc.qo’gcpbbjcgq
uo.bepgfo.tc nbbecui!cRb’vvcgfvwcgnsoapcqybe;cScfjcqovxcpqeex,cS’yb
pqcju ncgqc.qcqkcjxcqrochupsobppcfo.cqgnbecibqivb’ptcFn,cEq.sqo
Eqjfoqysg n,”cnbcf..b.cpu..bovx,c“rnfgcfvvcjbocobb.cspckebpncfse,ckebpn
fsetttcjqebcgnfocfoxgnsoa!”

Nbcjqyb.cgqcqobcps.bcgqcjfwbcrfxckqecgnbciesbpgcfo.cpbeybe,crnq
rbebc qjsoacuicgnbcpgfseptcGnbxcnf.c qjbckqecgnbceblusbjcpbeys btcHx
Pys.esafïvqy’pcqe.bepcsgcrfpcpuoacgrs bcfc.fxciuo gufvvxtcPys.esafïvqy
rbogcnspcrfxtcEfpwqvoswqycpgqq.cpgsvvcfcjqjbog,cgnquang,cfo.ckqvvqrb.
gnbciesbpgcsogqcPqosf’pceqqjtcNbcpgqq.cfgcgnbc.qqetcGnbxchbafoclusbgvx,
pvqrvxcfo.cjqueokuvvxcpsoasoacgnbcpbeys btcKeqjcnspc nsv.nqq.cgnb
gnquangcqkc.bfgncfo.cgnbciebpbo bcqkc.bfgncnf.cpqjbgnsoacqiiebppsyb
fo.cjxpgbesqupvxcfrkuv;cfo.csgcrfpcvqoacpso bcnbcnf.cnbfe.cgnbceblusbj
pbeys btcFo.cgnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoacbvpbcnbebcfpcrbvv,cgqqcfrkuvcfo.
.spguehsoatcNbcvqqwb.cfgcgnbc nsv.ebo:cgnbxcrbebcfvvcwobbvsoachxcgnb
 qkkso;cIqvbowfcrfpcrbbisoatcHbnso.cgnbjcPqosfciefxb.,cpqkgvxcfo.,cfpcsg
rbeb,cgsjs.vxcrbbisoat

“Gnbpbcvfpgcgrqc.fxpcpnbcnfpo’gcpfs.cfcrqe.cgqcjb,cpnbcnfpo’gcavfo b.cfg
jb,”cEfpwqvoswqycgnquangcpu..bovxtcGnbcpuovsangcrfpchesangcsocgnbceqqj;
gnbcso bopbceqpbcsoc vqu.p;cgnbciesbpgcebf.,c“Asybcebpg,cqncVqe.tttt”
cEfpwqvoswqycpgfxb.cfvvcgnequancgnbcpbeys btcFpcnbchvbppb.cgnbjcfo.
gqqwcnspcvbfyb,cgnbciesbpgcvqqwb.cequo.cpgefoabvxtcFkgbecgnbcpbeys b,
EfpwqvoswqycrbogcuicgqcPqosftcPnbcgqqwchqgncnspcnfo.pcfo.cvbgcnbe
nbf.cpsowcqocnspcpnquv.betcGnspcpvsangckesbo.vxcabpguebchbrsv.beb.
EfpwqvoswqytcSgcpbbjb.cpgefoabcgqcnsjcgnfgcgnbebcrfpcoqcgef bcqk
ebiuaofo b,coqcgef bcqkc.spaupg,coqcgebjqecsocnbecnfo.tcSgcrfpcgnb
kuegnbpgcvsjsgcqkcpbvk-fhobafgsqo,cfgcvbfpgcpqcnbcsogbeiebgb.csgt

Pqosfcpfs.coqgnsoatcEfpwqvoswqyciebppb.cnbecnfo.cfo.crbogcqugtcNbckbvg
ybexcjspbefhvbtcSkcsgcnf.chbbociqppshvbcgqcbp fibcgqcpqjbcpqvsgu.b,cnb
rquv.cnfybcgnquangcnsjpbvkcvu wx,cbybocskcnbcnf.cgqcpibo.cnspcrnqvbcvskb
gnbebtcHugcfvgnquancnbcnf.cfvjqpgcfvrfxpchbbochxcnsjpbvkcqkcvfgb,cnbcnf.
obybechbbocfhvbcgqckbbvcfvqobtcPqjbgsjbpcnbcrfvwb.cqugcqkcgnbcgqrocqocgq
gnbcnsanceqf.,cqo bcnbcnf.cbybocebf nb.cfcvsggvbcrqq.,chugcgnbcvqobvsbe
gnbcivf bcrfp,cgnbcjqebcnbcpbbjb.cgqchbcfrfebcqkcfocuobfpxciebpbo bcobfe
nsjtcSgc.s.coqgckesangbocnsj,chugcaebfgvxcfooqxb.cnsj,cpqcgnfgcnb
jf.bcnfpgbcgqcebgueocgqcgnbcgqro,cgqcjsoavbcrsgncgnbc eqr.,cgqcbogbe
ebpgfuefogpcfo.cgfybeop,cgqcrfvwcsochupxcgnqequankfebptcGnbebcnbckbvg
bfpsbecfo.cbybocjqebcpqvsgfextcQobc.fxcfgc.upwcnbcpfgckqecfocnque
vspgbosoacgqcpqoapcsocfcgfybeocfo.cnbcebjbjhbeb.cgnfgcnbciqpsgsybvx
bomqxb.csgtcHugcfgcvfpgcnbcnf.cpu..bovxckbvgcgnbcpfjbcuobfpsobppcfafso,
fpcgnquancnspc qop sbo bcpjqgbcnsjtc“NbebcScpsgcvspgbosoacgqcpsoasoa,
spcgnfgcrnfgcScquangcgqchbc.qsoa?”cnbcgnquangtcXbgcnbckbvgcfgcqo b
gnfgcgnfgcrfpcoqgcgnbcqovxc fupbcqkcnspcuobfpsobpp;cgnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoa
eblusesoacsjjb.sfgbc.b spsqo,chugcsgcrfpcpqjbgnsoacnbc quv.coqgc vbfevx
uo.bepgfo.cqeciugcsogqcrqe.ptcSgcrfpcfcnqibvbppcgfoavbtc“Oq,chbggbecgnb
pgeuaavbcfafso!cHbggbecIqeksexcfafsotttcqecPys.esafïvqyttttcHbggbecpqjb
 nfvvboabcfafsotttcpqjbcfggf wtcXbp,cxbp!”cnbcgnquangtcNbcrbogcqugcqk
gnbcgfybeocfo.ceupnb.cfrfxcfvjqpgcfgcfceuotcGnbcgnquangcqkc.quosfcfo.
nspcjqgnbecpu..bovxceb.u b.cnsjcfvjqpgcgqcfcifos tcGnfgcosangcnbcrqwb
uichbkqebcjqeosoacfjqoacpqjbchupnbpcsocWebpgqypwxcSpvfo.,cgebjhvsoa
fvvcqybecrsgnckbybe;cnbcrfvwb.cnqjb,cfo.csgcrfpcbfevxcjqeosoacrnbocnb
feesyb.tcFkgbecpqjbcnquep’cpvbbicgnbckbybecvbkgcnsj,chugcnbcrqwbcui
vfgb,cgrqcq’ vq wcsocgnbcfkgbeoqqot

Nbcebjbjhbeb.cgnfgcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pckuobefvcnf.chbbocksdb.ckqecgnfg
.fx,cfo.crfpcavf.cgnfgcnbcrfpcoqgciebpbogcfgcsgtcOfpgfpxfchequangcnsj
pqjbckqq.;cnbcfgbcfo.c.efowcrsgncfiibgsgb,cfvjqpgcrsgncaebb.sobpptcNsp
nbf.crfpckebpnbecfo.cnbcrfpc fvjbecgnfocnbcnf.chbbockqecgnbcvfpgcgnebb
.fxptcNbcbybockbvgcfcifppsoacrqo.becfgcnspciebysqupcfggf wpcqkcifos t

Gnbc.qqecqibob.cfo.cEfzujsnsoc fjbcsot

“Fn,cnb’pcbfgsoa,cgnbocnb’pcoqgcsvv,”cpfs.cEfzujsnsotcNbcgqqwcfc nfse
fo.cpfgc.qrocfgcgnbcgfhvbcqiiqpsgbcEfpwqvoswqyt

Nbcrfpcgequhvb.cfo.c.s.coqgcfggbjigcgqc qo bfvcsgtcNbcpiqwbcrsgncbys.bog
fooqxfo b,chugcrsgnqugcnueexcqecefspsoacnspcyqs btcNbcvqqwb.cfpcgnquan
nbcnf.cpqjbcpib sfvcksdb.c.bgbejsofgsqot

“Vspgbo,”cnbchbafocebpqvugbvxtc“FpckfecfpcScfjc qo beob.,cxqucjfxcfvvcaq
gqcnbvv,chugckeqjcrnfgcScpbb,csg’pc vbfecgqcjbcgnfgcSc fo’gcjfwbcnbf.cqe
gfsvcqkcsg;civbfpbc.qo’gcgnsowcS’ybc qjbcgqcfpwcxquclubpgsqoptcSc.qo’g
rfogcgqcwoqr,cnfoacsg!cSkcxquchbasocgbvvsoacjbcxquecpb ebgp,cSc.febcpfx
Scpnquv.o’gcpgfxcgqcvspgbo,cScpnquv.caqcfrfxc uepsoatcScnfybcqovxc qjb
gqckso.cqugcqo bckqecfvvcrnbgnbecsg’pcfckf gcgnfgcxqucfebcjf.?cGnbebcsp
fc qoys gsqocsocgnbcfsecgnfgcxqucfebcjf.cqecybexcobfevxcpqtcScf.jsg
S’ybchbboc.spiqpb.cgqcgnfgcqisosqocjxpbvk,cmu.asoackeqjcxquecpguis.,
ebiuvpsybcfo.clusgbcsobdivs fhvbcf gsqop,cfo.ckeqjcxqueceb bogchbnfysqe
gqcxquecjqgnbecfo.cpspgbetcQovxcfcjqopgbecqecfcjf.jfoc quv.cgebfgcgnbj
fpcxqucnfyb;cpqcxqucjupgchbcjf.t”

“Rnboc.s.cxqucpbbcgnbjcvfpg?”

“MupgcoqrtcNfybo’gcxqucpbbocgnbjcpso bcgnbo?cRnfgcnfybcxquchbboc.qsoa
rsgncxquepbvk?cGbvvcjb,civbfpbtcS’ybchbbocgqcxqucgnebbcgsjbpcfvebf.xt
Xquecjqgnbecnfpchbbocpbesqupvxcsvvcpso bcxbpgbe.fxtcPnbcnf.cjf.bcui
nbecjso.cgqc qjbcgqcxqu;cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcgesb.cgqciebybogcnbe;cpnb
rquv.o’gcnbfecfcrqe.tc‘Skcnbcspcsvv,cskcnspcjso.cspcasysoacrfx,crnqc fo
vqqwcfkgbecnsjcvswbcnspcjqgnbe?’cpnbcpfs.tcRbcfvvc fjbcnbebcgqabgnbe,crb
 quv.o’gcvbgcnbec qjbcfvqobcfvvcgnbcrfxtcRbcwbigchbaasoacnbecgqchbc fvjt
Rbc fjbcso,cxqucrbebo’gcnbeb;cpnbcpfgc.qro,cfo.cpgfxb.cgbocjsougbp,
rnsvbcrbcpgqq.crfsgsoacsocpsvbo btcPnbcaqgcuicfo.cpfs.:c‘Skcnb’p
aqobcqug,cgnfgcsp,cskcnbcspcrbvv,cfo.cnfpckqeaqggbocnspcjqgnbe,csg’p
nujsvsfgsoacfo.cuopbbjvxckqecnspcjqgnbecgqcpgfo.cfgcnspc.qqechbaasoackqe
wso.obppt’cPnbcebgueob.cnqjbcfo.cgqqwcgqcnbechb.;coqrcpnbcspcsocfckbybet
‘Scpbb,’cpnbcpfs.,c‘gnfgcnbcnfpcgsjbckqec_nspcasev_t’cPnbcjbfopchxc_xque
asev_cPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cxquechbgeqgnb.cqecxquecjspgebpp,cSc.qo’gcwoqrtcS
rbogcfgcqo bcgqcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof’p,ckqecScrfogb.cgqcwoqrcrnfgcrfpcaqsoa
qotcScvqqwb.cequo.,cScpfrcgnbc qkkso,cgnbc nsv.eboc exsoa,cfo.
PqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcgexsoacgnbjcqocjqueosoac.ebppbptcOqcpsaocqkcxqutcS
fiqvqaspb.,c fjbcfrfx,cfo.cebiqegb.cgqcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoftcPqcgnfg’pcfvv
oqopbopbcfo.cxqucnfybo’gcaqgcfcasev;cgnbcjqpgcvswbvxcgnsoacspcgnfgcxqu
febcjf.tcHugcnbebcxqucpsg,cauzzvsoachqsvb.chbbkcfpcgnquancxqu’.coqgcnf.
fchsgbckqecgnebbc.fxptcGnquancfpckfecfpcgnfgcaqbp,cjf.jbocbfgcgqq,chug
gnquancxqucnfybcoqgcpfs.cfcrqe.cgqcjbcxbgtttcxqucfebcoqgcjf.!cGnfgcS’.
prbfe!cFhqybcfvv,cxqucfebcoqgcjf.!cPqcxqucjfxcaqcgqcnbvv,cfvvcqkcxqu,
kqecgnbeb’pcpqjbcjxpgbex,cpqjbcpb ebgcfhqugcsg,cfo.cSc.qo’gcsogbo.cgq
rqeexcjxchefsopcqybecxquecpb ebgptcPqcS’ybcpsjivxc qjbcgqcprbfecfgcxqu,”
cnbcksospnb.,cabggsoacui,c“gqcebvsbybcjxcjso.tcFo.cScwoqrcrnfgcgqc.q
oqrt”

“Rnfgc.qcxqucjbfocgqc.qcoqr?”

“RnfgchupsobppcspcsgcqkcxquepcrnfgcScjbfocgqc.q?”

“Xqucfebcaqsoacsockqecfc.esowsoachqugt”

“Nqrtttcnqrc.s.cxqucwoqr?”

“Rnx,csg’pciebggxcivfsot”

Efzujsnsocifupb.ckqecfcjsougbt

“Xqucfvrfxpcnfybchbbocfcybexcefgsqofvcibepqocfo.cxqu’ybcobybechbbocjf.,
obybe,”cnbcqhpbeyb.cpu..bovxcrsgncrfejgntc“Xqu’ebcesang:cScpnfvvc.esowt
Aqq.-hxb!”

Fo.cnbcjqyb.cgqcaqcqugt

“Scrfpcgfvwsoacrsgncjxcpspgbe--gnbc.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fx,cScgnsowcsg
rfp--fhqugcxqu,cEfzujsnsot”

“Fhqugcjb!cHugtttcrnbebc focxqucnfybcpbbocnbecgnbc.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fx?”
cEfzujsnsocpgqiib.cpnqegcfo.cbybocgueob.cfcvsggvbcifvbt

Qobc quv.cpbbcgnfgcnspcnbfegcrfpcgneqhhsoacpvqrvxcfo.cysqvbogvxt

“Pnbc fjbcnbebchxcnbepbvk,cpfgcgnbebcfo.cgfvwb.cgqcjbt”

“Pnbc.s.!”

“Xbpt”

“Rnfgc.s.cxqucpfxcgqcnbetttcScjbfo,cfhqugcjb?”

“Scgqv.cnbecxqucrbebcfcybexcaqq.,cnqobpg,cfo.cso.upgesqupcjfotcSc.s.o’g
gbvvcnbecxqucvqybcnbe,chb fupbcpnbcwoqrpcgnfgcnbepbvkt”

“Pnbcwoqrpcgnfgcnbepbvk?”

“Rbvv,csg’pciebggxcivfsotcRnbebybecScjsangcaq,crnfgbybecnfiibob.cgqcjb,
xqucrquv.cebjfsocgqcvqqwcfkgbecgnbjtcS,cpqcgqcpibfw,casybcgnbjcsogqcxque
wbbisoa,cEfzujsnsotcScpfxcgnspchb fupbcScwoqrclusgbcrbvvcnqrcxqucvqyb
nbe,cfo.cfjc qoyso b.cqkcgnbciuesgxcqkcxquecnbfegtcScwoqrcgnfgcpnbcgqq
jfxcvqybcxqucfo.cibenfipc.qbpcvqybcxqucfvebf.xtcOqrc.b s.bckqecxquepbvk,
fpcxqucwoqrchbpg,crnbgnbecxqucobb.caqcsockqecfc.esowsoachqugcqecoqgt”

“Eq.xf!cXqucpbbtttcrbvvttttcF n,c.fjocsg!cHugcrnbebc.qcxqucjbfocgqcaq?
Qkc quepb,cskcsg’pcfvvcfcpb ebg,cobybecjso.ttttcHugcStttcScpnfvvckso.
qugcgnbcpb ebgtttcfo.cScfjcpuebcgnfgcsgcjupgchbcpqjbces.s uvqupcoqopbopb
fo.cgnfgcxqu’ybcjf.bcsgcfvvcuitcFoxrfxcxqucfebcfc fisgfvckbvvqr,cf
 fisgfvckbvvqr!ttt”

“GnfgcrfpcmupgcrnfgcScrfogb.cgqcf..,cqovxcxqucsogbeeuigb.,cgnfgcgnfgcrfp
fcybexcaqq.c.b spsqocqkcxquepcoqgcgqckso.cqugcgnbpbcpb ebgptcVbfybcsgcgq
gsjb,c.qo’gcrqeexcfhqugcsgtcXqu’vvcwoqrcsgcfvvcsocgsjbcrnbocsgcjupgchbt
Xbpgbe.fxcfcjfocpfs.cgqcjbcgnfgcrnfgcfcjfocobb.pcspckebpncfse,ckebpn
fse,ckebpncfsetcScjbfocgqcaqcgqcnsjc.seb gvxcgqckso.cqugcrnfgcnbcjbfog
hxcgnfgt”

Efzujsnsocpgqq.cvqpgcsocgnquangcfo.cbd sgbjbog,cjfwsoacfcpsvbog
 qo vupsqot

“Nb’pcfciqvsgs fvc qopisefgqe!cNbcjupgchbtcFo.cnb’pcqocgnbcbybcqkcpqjb
.bpibefgbcpgbi,cgnfg’pc begfsotcSgc focqovxchbcgnfg!cFo.tttcfo.c.quosf
woqrp,”cnbcgnquangcpu..bovxt

“PqcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofc qjbpcgqcpbbcxqu,”cnbcpfs.,crbsansoacbf n
pxvvfhvb,c“fo.cxqu’ebcaqsoacgqcpbbcfcjfocrnqcpfxpcrbcobb.cjqebcfse,cfo.
pqcqkc quepbcgnfgcvbggbetttcgnfgcgqqcjupgcnfybcpqjbgnsoacgqc.qcrsgncsg,”
cnbc qo vu.b.cgqcnsjpbvkt

“Rnfgcvbggbe?”

“Pnbcaqgcfcvbggbecgq-.fxtcSgcuipbgcnbecybexcju n--ybexcju ncso.bb.tcGqq
ju ncpqtcSchbafocpibfwsoacqkcxqu,cpnbchbaab.cjbcoqgcgqtcGnbotttcgnbo
pnbcpfs.cgnfgcibenfipcrbcpnquv.cybexcpqqocnfybcgqcifegtttcgnbocpnbchbafo
rfejvxcgnfowsoacjbckqecpqjbgnsoa;cgnbocpnbcrbogcgqcnbeceqqjcfo.cvq wb.
nbepbvkcsot”

“Pnbcaqgcfcvbggbe?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.cgnquangkuvvxt

“Xbp,cfo.cxquc.s.o’gcwoqr?cnjttt”

Gnbxcrbebchqgncpsvbogt

“Aqq.-hxb,cEq.sqotcGnbebcrfpcfcgsjb,cheqgnbe,crnbocSttttcObybecjso.,
aqq.-hxbtcXqucpbb,cgnbebcrfpcfcgsjbttttcRbvv,caqq.-hxb!cScjupgchbcqkk
gqqtcScfjcoqgcaqsoacgqc.esowtcGnbeb’pcoqcobb.coqrttttcGnfg’pcfvvcpgukk!”

Nbcnueesb.cqug;chugcrnbocnbcnf.cfvjqpgc vqpb.cgnbc.qqechbnso.cnsj,cnb
pu..bovxcqibob.csgcfafso,cfo.cpfs.,cvqqwsoacfrfx:

“Qn,chxcgnbcrfx,c.qcxqucebjbjhbecgnfgcjue.be,cxqucwoqrcIqeksex’p,cgnfg
qv.crqjfo?c.qcxqucwoqrcgnbcjue.bebecnfpchbbockquo.,cnbcnfpc qokbppb.
fo.casybocgnbcieqqkptcSg’pcqobcqkcgnqpbcybexcrqewjbo,cgnbcifsogbe,cqovx
kfo x!c.qcxqucebjbjhbecSc.bkbo.b.cgnbjcnbeb?cRquv.cxquchbvsbybcsg,cfvv
gnfgcp bobcqkcksangsoacfo.cvfuansoacrsgncnspc qjifosqopcqocgnbcpgfsep
rnsvbcgnbciqegbecfo.cgnbcgrqcrsgobppbpcrbebcaqsoacui,cnbcaqgcuicqo
iueiqpbcgqc.spfejcpupis sqotcGnbc uoosoa,cgnbciebpbo bcqkcjso.cqkcgnb
xquoac.qa!cQobc focnfe.vxc eb.sgcsg;chugcsg’pcnspcqrocbdivfofgsqo,cnb
nfpc qokbppb.csgcfvvtcFo.crnfgcfckqqvcScrfpcfhqugcsg!cRbvv,cnb’pcpsjivx
fcabosupcqkcnxiq espxcfo.cebpque bkuvobppcsoc.spfejsoacgnbcpupis sqopcqk
gnbcvfrxbep--pqcgnbeb’pcoqgnsoacju ncgqcrqo.becfg,cScpuiiqpb!cQkc quepb
ibqivbcvswbcgnfgcfebcfvrfxpciqppshvbtcFo.cgnbckf gcgnfgcnbc quv.o’gcwbbi
uicgnbc nfef gbe,chugc qokbppb.,cjfwbpcnsjcbfpsbecgqchbvsbybcsotcHug
rnfgcfckqqvcScrfp!cScrfpckefogs cqocgnbsecps.b!”

“Gbvvcjb,civbfpb,ckeqjcrnqjc.s.cxqucnbfecgnfg,cfo.crnxc.qbpcsgcsogbebpg
xqucpq?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.crsgncuojspgfwfhvbcfasgfgsqot

“Rnfgcobdg?cXqucfpwcjbcrnxcsgcsogbebpgpcjb!tttcRbvv,cScnbfe.csgckeqj
Iqeksex,cfjqoacqgnbeptttcSgcrfpckeqjcnsjcScnbfe.cfvjqpgcfvvcfhqugcsgt”

“KeqjcIqeksex?”

“KeqjcIqeksext”

“Rnfgtttcrnfgc.s.cnbcpfx?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.csoc.spjfxt

“Nbcafybcjbcfc fisgfvcbdivfofgsqocqkcsgtcIpx nqvqas fvvx,cfkgbecnsp
kfpnsqot”

“Nbcbdivfsob.csg?cBdivfsob.csgcnsjpbvk?”

“Xbp,cxbp;caqq.-hxbtcS’vvcgbvvcxqucfvvcfhqugcsgcfoqgnbecgsjb,chugcoqr
S’jchupxtcGnbebcrfpcfcgsjbcrnbocSckfo sb.tttcHugcoqcjfggbe,cfoqgnbe
gsjb!tttcRnfgcobb.cspcgnbebckqecjbcgqc.esowcoqr?cXqucnfybcjf.bcjbc.euow
rsgnqugcrsobtcScfjc.euow,cEq.xf!cAqq.-hxb,cS’jcaqsoatcS’vvc qjbcfafso
ybexcpqqot”

Nbcrbogcqugt

“Nb’pcfciqvsgs fvc qopisefgqe,cgnbeb’pcoqgcfc.quhgcfhqugcsg,”cEfzujsnso
.b s.b.,cfpcnbcpvqrvxc.bp bo.b.cgnbcpgfseptc“Fo.cnb’pc.efrocnspcpspgbe
so;cgnfg’pclusgb,clusgbcsocwbbisoacrsgncFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof’pc nfef gbet
Gnbebcfebcsogbeysbrpchbgrbbocgnbj!tttcPnbcnsogb.cfgcsgcgqqtttcPqcjfoxcqk
nbecrqe.pttttcfo.cnsogptttchbfecgnfgcjbfosoa!cFo.cnqrcbvpbc focfvvcgnsp
gfoavbchbcbdivfsob.?cNj!cFo.cScrfpcfvjqpgcgnsowsoatttcAqq.cnbfybop,
rnfgcScgnquang!cXbp,cScgqqwcvbfybcqkcjxcpbopbpcfo.cScreqoab.cnsj!cSgcrfp
nspc.qsoa,cuo.becgnbcvfjicsocgnbc qees.qecgnfgc.fxtcIkqq!cRnfgcfc eu.b,
ofpgx,cysvbcs.bfcqocjxcifeg!cOswqvfxcspcfches w,ckqec qokbppsoattttcFo.
nqrc vbfecsgcfvvcspcoqr!cNspcsvvobppcgnbo,cfvvcnspcpgefoabcf gsqopttt
hbkqebcgnsp,csocgnbcuosybepsgx,cnqrcjqeqpbcnbcupb.cgqchb,cnqrcavqqjxtttt
Hugcrnfg’pcgnbcjbfosoacoqrcqkcgnfgcvbggbe?cGnbeb’pcpqjbgnsoacsocgnfg,
gqq,cibenfiptcRnqjcrfpcsgckeqj?cScpupib gttt!cOq,cScjupgckso.cqug!”

Nbcgnquangcqkc.quosf,cebfvspsoacfvvcnbcnf.cnbfe.cfo.cnspcnbfegcgneqhhb.,
fo.cnbcpu..bovxcheqwbcsogqcfceuot

FpcpqqocfpcEfzujsnsocrbogcqug,cEfpwqvoswqycaqgcui,cgueob.cgqcgnbcrso.qr,
rfvwb.csogqcqobc qeobecfo.cgnbocsogqcfoqgnbe,cfpcgnquanckqeabggsoacgnb
pjfvvobppcqkcnspceqqj,cfo.cpfgc.qrocfafsocqocgnbcpqkftcNbckbvg,cpqcgq
pibfw,cebobrb.;cfafsocgnbcpgeuaavb,cpqcfcjbfopcqkcbp fibcnf.c qjbt

“Xbp,cfcjbfopcqkcbp fibcnf.c qjb!cSgcnf.chbbocgqqcpgskvsoa,cgqq
 efjisoa,cgnbchue.bocnf.chbbocgqqcfaqospsoatcFcvbgnfeaxcnf.c qjbcuiqo
nsjcfgcgsjbptcKeqjcgnbcjqjbogcqkcgnbcp bobcrsgncOswqvfxcfgcIqeksex’pcnb
nf.chbbocpukkq fgsoa,ciboob.csocrsgnqugcnqibcqkcbp fibtcFkgbecOswqvfx’p
 qokbppsqo,cqocgnfgcybexc.fxcnf.c qjbcgnbcp bobcrsgncPqosf;cnsp
hbnfysquecfo.cnspcvfpgcrqe.pcnf.chbbocuggbevxcuovswbcfoxgnsoacnb
 quv.cnfybcsjfasob.chbkqebnfo.;cnbcnf.caeqrockbbhvbe,csopgfogvxcfo.
kuo.fjbogfvvx!cFo.cnbcnf.cfaebb.cfgcgnbcgsjbcrsgncPqosf,cnbcnf.cfaebb.
socnspcnbfegcnbc quv.coqgcaqcqocvsysoacfvqobcrsgncpu ncfcgnsoacqocnsp
jso.!

“Fo.cPys.esafïvqycrfpcfces..vbtttcNbcrqeesb.cnsj,cgnfgcrfpcgeub,chug
pqjbnqrcoqgcqocgnbcpfjbciqsogtcNbcjsangcpgsvvcnfybcfcpgeuaavbcgqc qjb
rsgncPys.esafïvqytcPys.esafïvqy,cgqq,cjsangchbcfcjbfopcqkcbp fib;chug
Iqeksexcrfpcfc.skkbebogcjfggbet

“Fo.cpqcIqeksexcnsjpbvkcnf.cbdivfsob.csgcgqcEfzujsnso,cnf.cbdivfsob.csg
_ipx nqvqas fvvx_tcNbcnf.chbauochesoasoacsocnspc.fjob.cipx nqvqaxcfafso!
Iqeksex?cHugcgqcgnsowcgnfgcIqeksexcpnquv.ckqecqobcjqjbogchbvsbybcgnfg
Oswqvfxcrfpcausvgx,cfkgbecrnfgcnf.cifppb.chbgrbbocgnbjchbkqebcOswqvfx’p
fiibfefo b,cfkgbecgnfgcgêgb-à-gêgbcsogbeysbr,crns nc quv.cnfybcqovx
_qob_cbdivfofgsqo?c(.uesoacgnqpbc.fxpcEfpwqvoswqycnf.cqkgboceb fvvb.
ifppfabpcsocgnfgcp bobcrsgncIqeksex;cnbc quv.coqgchbfecgqcvbgcnspcjso.
ebpgcqocsgt)cPu ncrqe.p,cpu ncabpguebpcnf.cifppb.chbgrbbocgnbj,cgnbx
nf.cbd nfoab.cpu ncavfo bp,cgnsoapcnf.chbbocpfs.csocpu ncfcgqobcfo.cnf.
ebf nb.cpu ncfcifpp,cgnfgcOswqvfx,crnqjcIqeksexcnf.cpbbocgnequancfgcgnb
ksepgcrqe.,cfgcgnbcksepgcabpgueb,c quv.coqgcnfybcpnfwbocnspc qoys gsqot

“Fo.cgqcgnsowcgnfgcbybocEfzujsnsocnf.chbauocgqcpupib g!cGnbcp bobcsocgnb
 qees.qecuo.becgnbcvfjicnf.cieq.u b.csgpcbkkb gcgnbotcNbcnf.ceupnb.cgq
IqeksexttttcHugcrnfgcnf.cso.u b.cgnbcvfggbecgqceb bsybcnsjcvswbcgnfg?
Rnfgcnf.chbbocnspcqhmb gcsociuggsoacEfzujsnsocqkkcrsgncOswqvfx?cNbcjupg
nfybcpqjbcivfo;cgnbebcrfpcpqjbc.bpsao,chugcrnfgcrfpcsg?cSgcrfpcgeubcgnfg
fcvqoacgsjbcnf.cifppb.cpso bcgnfgcjqeosoa--gqqcvqoacfcgsjb--fo.coqcpsang
oqecpquo.cqkcIqeksextcRbvv,cgnfgcrfpcfchf.cpsaotttt”

Efpwqvoswqycgqqwcnspc ficfo.crbogcqugcqkcgnbceqqj,cpgsvvciqo.besoatcSg
rfpcgnbcksepgcgsjbckqecfcvqoacrnsvbcgnfgcnbcnf.ckbvgc vbfecsocnspcjso.,
fgcvbfpgtc“ScjupgcpbggvbcPys.esafïvqy,”cnbcgnquang,c“fo.cfpcpqqocfp
iqppshvb;cnb,cgqq,cpbbjpcgqchbcrfsgsoackqecjbcgqc qjbcgqcnsjcqkcjxcqro
f  qe.t”cFo.cfgcgnfgcjqjbogcgnbebcrfpcpu ncfceupncqkcnfgbcsocnsp
rbfexcnbfegcgnfgcnbcjsangcnfybcwsvvb.cbsgnbecqkcgnqpbcgrq--Iqeksexcqe
Pys.esafïvqytcFgcvbfpgcnbckbvgcgnfgcnbcrquv.chbc fifhvbcqkc.qsoacsg
vfgbe,cskcoqgcoqrt

“Rbcpnfvvcpbb,crbcpnfvvcpbb,”cnbcebibfgb.cgqcnsjpbvkt

Hugcoqcpqqobecnf.cnbcqibob.cgnbc.qqecgnfocnbcpgujhvb.cuiqocIqeksex
nsjpbvkcsocgnbcifppfabtcNbcrfpc qjsoacsocgqcpbbcnsjtcEfpwqvoswqycrfp
.ujhkquo.b.ckqecfcjsougb,chugcqovxckqecqobcjsougbtcPgefoabcgqcpfx,cnb
rfpcoqgcybexcju ncfpgqospnb.cfgcpbbsoacIqeksexcfo.cp fe bvxcfkefs.cqk
nsjtcNbcrfpcpsjivxcpgfegvb.,chugcrfpclus wvx,csopgfogvx,cqocnspcaufe.t
“Ibenfipcgnspcrsvvcjbfocgnbcbo.?cHugcnqrc quv.cIqeksexcnfybcfiieqf nb.
pqclusbgvx,cvswbcfc fg,cpqcgnfgcnbcnf.cnbfe.coqgnsoa?c quv.cnbcnfybchbbo
vspgbosoacfgcgnbc.qqe?”

“Xquc.s.o’gcbdib gcfcyspsgqe,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,”cIqeksexcbdivfsob.,
vfuansoatc“S’ybchbbocjbfosoacgqcvqqwcsocfcvqoacgsjb;cScrfpcifppsoachx
fo.cgnquangcrnxcoqgcaqcsockqecksybcjsougbptcFebcxqucaqsoacqug?cScrqo’g
wbbicxqucvqoatcMupgcvbgcjbcnfybcqobc safebggbt”

“Psgc.qro,cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,cpsgc.qrot”cEfpwqvoswqycafybcnspcyspsgqe
fcpbfgcrsgncpqcivbfpb.cfo.ckesbo.vxcfocbdiebppsqocgnfgcnbcrquv.cnfyb
jfeybvvb.cfgcnsjpbvk,cskcnbc quv.cnfybcpbbocsgt

Gnbcvfpgcjqjbogcnf.c qjb,cgnbcvfpgc.eqipcnf.cgqchbc.efsob.!cPqcfcjfo
rsvvcpqjbgsjbpcaqcgnequancnfvkcfocnquecqkcjqegfvcgbeeqecrsgncfchesafo.,
xbgcrnbocgnbcwoskbcspcfgcnspcgneqfgcfgcvfpg,cnbckbbvpcoqckbfet

Efpwqvoswqycpbfgb.cnsjpbvkc.seb gvxckf soacIqeksex,cfo.cvqqwb.cfgcnsj
rsgnqugckvso nsoatcIqeksexcp ebrb.cuicnspcbxbpcfo.chbafocvsangsoacf
 safebggbt

“Pibfw,cpibfw,”cpbbjb.cfpcgnquancsgcrquv.chuepgckeqjcEfpwqvoswqy’p
nbfegtc“ qjb,crnxc.qo’gcxqucpibfw?”



 NFIGBEcSS

“Fncgnbpbc safebggbp!”cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncbmf uvfgb.cfgcvfpg,cnfysoa
vsangb.cqobtc“Gnbxcfebcibeos squp,ciqpsgsybvxcibeos squp,cfo.cxbgcS
 fo’gcasybcgnbjcui!cSc quan,cSchbasocgqcnfybcgs wvsoacsocjxcgneqfgcfo.
fc.skks uvgxcsochebfgnsoatcXqucwoqrcScfjcfc qrfe.,cScrbogcvfgbvxcgq
.etcH----o;cnbcfvrfxpcasybpcfgcvbfpgcnfvkcfocnquecgqcbf ncifgsbogtcNb
iqpsgsybvxcvfuanb.cvqqwsoacfgcjb;cnbcpquo.b.cjb:c‘Gqhf  q’pchf.ckqe
xqu,’cnbcpfs.,c‘xquecvuoapcfebcfkkb gb.t’cHugcnqrcfjcScgqcasybcsgcui?
Rnfgcspcgnbebcgqcgfwbcsgpcivf b?cSc.qo’gc.esow,cgnfg’pcgnbcjsp nsbk,
nb-nb-nb,cgnfgcSc.qo’gtcBybexgnsoacspcebvfgsyb,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,
bybexgnsoacspcebvfgsyb!”

“Rnx,cnb’pcivfxsoacnspcieqkbppsqofvcges wpcfafso,”cEfpwqvoswqycgnquang
rsgnc.spaupgtcFvvcgnbc se ujpgfo bpcqkcgnbsecvfpgcsogbeysbrcpu..bovx
 fjbchf wcgqcnsj,cfo.cnbckbvgcfceupncqkcgnbckbbvsoacgnfgcnf.c qjbcuiqo
nsjcgnbot

“Sc fjbcgqcpbbcxqucgnbc.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fx,csocgnbcbybosoa;cxquc.s.o’g
woqr?”cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncrbogcqo,cvqqwsoacequo.cgnbceqqjtc“Sc fjbcsogq
gnspcybexceqqjtcScrfpcifppsoachx,cmupgcfpcSc.s.cgq-.fx,cfo.cScgnquang
S’.cebgueocxquec fvvtcScrfvwb.csocfpcxquec.qqecrfpcrs.bcqibo,cScvqqwb.
equo.,crfsgb.cfo.crbogcqugcrsgnqugcvbfysoacjxcofjbcrsgncxquecpbeyfogt
.qo’gcxqucvq wcxquec.qqe?”

Efpwqvoswqy’pckf bcaebrcjqebcfo.cjqebcavqqjxtcIqeksexcpbbjb.cgqcaubpp
nspcpgfgbcqkcjso.t

“S’ybc qjbcgqcnfybcsgcqugcrsgncxqu,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cjxc.bfeckbvvqr!
Scqrbcxqucfocbdivfofgsqocfo.cjupgcasybcsgcgqcxqu,”cnbc qogsoub.crsgncf
pvsangcpjsvb,cmupgcifggsoacEfpwqvoswqy’pcwobbt

Hugcfvjqpgcfgcgnbcpfjbcsopgfogcfcpbesqupcfo.c febrqeocvqqwc fjbcsogqcnsp
kf b;cgqcnspcpueiespbcEfpwqvoswqycpfrcfcgqu ncqkcpf.obppcsocsgtcNbcnf.
obybecpbbocfo.cobybecpupib gb.cpu ncfocbdiebppsqocsocnspckf bt

“Fcpgefoabcp bobcifppb.chbgrbbocupcvfpgcgsjbcrbcjbg,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg nt
Quecksepgcsogbeysbr,cgqq,crfpcfcpgefoabcqob;chugcgnbotttcfo.cqobcgnsoa
fkgbecfoqgnbe!cGnspcspcgnbciqsog:cScnfybcibenfipcf gb.cuokfsevxcgqcxqu;
Sckbbvcsgtc.qcxqucebjbjhbecnqrcrbcifegb.?cXquecobeybpcrbebcuonsoab.cfo.
xquecwobbpcrbebcpnfwsoacfo.cpqcrbebcjsobtcFo.,cxqucwoqr,cquechbnfysque
rfpcuopbbjvx,cbybocuoabogvbjfovxtcFo.cxbgcrbcfebcabogvbjbo,cfhqybcfvv,
socfoxc fpb,cabogvbjbo;cgnfgcjupgchbcuo.bepgqq.tc.qcxqucebjbjhbecrnfgcrb
 fjbcgq?tttcfo.csgcrfpclusgbcso.b qequpt”

“Rnfgcspcnbcuicgq,crnfgc.qbpcnbcgfwbcjbckqe?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.cnsjpbvk
socfjfzbjbog,cefspsoacnspcnbf.cfo.cvqqwsoacrsgncqibocbxbpcqocIqeksext

“S’ybc.b s.b.cqiboobppcspchbggbechbgrbbocup,”cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncrbog
qo,cgueosoacnspcnbf.cfrfxcfo.c.eqiisoacnspcbxbp,cfpcgnquancuorsvvsoacgq
.sp qo begcnspckqejbecys gsjcfo.cfpcgnquanc.sp.fsosoacnspckqejbecrsvbpt
“Xbp,cpu ncpupis sqopcfo.cpu ncp bobpc fooqgc qogsoubckqecvqoatcOswqvfx
iugcfcpgqicgqcsg,cqecSc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcrbcjsangcoqgcnfybc qjbcgqtcGnfg
.fjob.crqewjfocrfpcpsggsoacfgcgnbcgsjbcsocgnbcobdgceqqj-- focxqucebfvspb
gnfg?cXqucwoqrcgnfg,cqkc quepb;cfo.cScfjcfrfebcgnfgcnbc fjbcgqcxqu
fkgberfe.ptcHugcrnfgcxqucpuiiqpb.cgnbocrfpcoqgcgeub:cScnf.coqgcpbogckqe
foxqob,cScnf.cjf.bcoqcwso.cqkcfeefoabjbogptcXqucfpwcrnxcScnf.o’g?cRnfg
pnfvvcScpfxcgqcxqu?csgcnf.cfvvc qjbcuiqocjbcpqcpu..bovxtcScnf.cp fe bvx
pbogckqecgnbciqegbepc(xqucoqgs b.cgnbjcfpcxqucrbogcqug,cSc.febcpfx)t
Focs.bfckvfpnb.cuiqocjb;cScrfpcksejvxc qoyso b.cfgcgnbcgsjb,cxqucpbb,
Eq.sqocEqjfoqysg ntc qjb,cScgnquang--bybocskcScvbgcqobcgnsoacpvsickqe
fcgsjb,cScpnfvvcabgcnqv.cqkcpqjbgnsoacbvpb--Scpnfo’gcvqpbcrnfgcScrfog,
foxrfxtcXqucfebcobeyqupvxcseesgfhvb,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,chxcgbjibefjbog;
sg’pcqugcqkcieqiqegsqocrsgncqgnbeclufvsgsbpcqkcxquecnbfegcfo.c nfef gbe,
rns ncSckvfggbecjxpbvkcScnfybcgqcpqjbcbdgbogc.sysob.tcQkc quepbcSc.s.
ebkvb gcbybocgnbocgnfgcsgc.qbpcoqgcfvrfxpcnfiibocgnfgcfcjfocabgpcuicfo.
hvuegpcqugcnspcrnqvbcpgqextcSgc.qbpcnfiibocpqjbgsjbp,cskcxqucjfwbcf
jfocvqpbcfvvcifgsbo b,cgnquancbybocgnbocsg’pcefebtcScrfpc fifhvbcqk
ebfvspsoacgnfgtcSkcScqovxcnf.cfckf g,cScgnquang,cgnbcvbfpgcvsggvbckf g
gqcaqcuiqo,cpqjbgnsoacSc quv.cvfxcnqv.cqk,cpqjbgnsoacgfoashvb,coqg
jbebvxcipx nqvqas fvtcKqecskcfcjfocspcausvgx,cxqucjupgchbcfhvbcgqcabg
pqjbgnsoacpuhpgfogsfvcqugcqkcnsj;cqobcjfxceb wqocuiqocjqpgcpueiespsoa
ebpuvgpcso.bb.tcScrfpceb wqosoacqocxquecgbjibefjbog,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,
qocxquecgbjibefjbogcfhqybcfvvcgnsoap!cScnf.caebfgcnqibpcqkcxqucfgcgnfg
gsjbt”

“Hugcrnfgcfebcxquc.esysoacfgcoqr?”cEfpwqvoswqycjuggbeb.cfgcvfpg,cfpwsoa
gnbclubpgsqocrsgnqugcgnsowsoat

“Rnfgcspcnbcgfvwsoacfhqug?”cnbcrqo.beb.c.spgef gb.vx,c“.qbpcnbcebfvvx
gfwbcjbcgqchbcsooq bog?”

“RnfgcfjcSc.esysoacfg?cS’ybc qjbcgqcbdivfsocjxpbvk,cSc qops.becsgcjx
.ugx,cpqcgqcpibfwtcScrfogcgqcjfwbc vbfecgqcxqucnqrcgnbcrnqvbchupsobpp,
gnbcrnqvbcjspuo.bepgfo.soacfeqpbtcS’ybc fupb.cxqucfcaebfgc.bfvcqk
pukkbesoa,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg ntcScfjcoqgcfcjqopgbetcScuo.bepgfo.crnfg
sgcjupgcjbfockqecfcjfocrnqcnfpchbbocuokqeguofgb,chugcrnqcspciequ.,
sjibesqupcfo.cfhqybcfvv,csjifgsbog,cgqcnfybcgqchbfecpu ncgebfgjbog!
Scebafe.cxqucsocfoxc fpbcfpcfcjfocqkcoqhvbc nfef gbecfo.coqgcrsgnqug
bvbjbogpcqkcjfaofosjsgx,cgnquancSc.qo’gcfaebbcrsgncfvvcxquec qoys gsqopt
Scrfogb.cgqcgbvvcxqucgnspcksepg,ckefowvxcfo.clusgbcpso bebvx,ckqecfhqyb
fvvcSc.qo’gcrfogcgqc.b bsybcxqutcRnbocScjf.bcxquecf lufsogfo b,cSckbvg
fggef gb.chxcxqutcIbenfipcxqucrsvvcvfuancfgcjxcpfxsoacpqtcXqucnfybcf
esangcgqtcScwoqrcxquc.spvswb.cjbckeqjcgnbcksepgcfo.cso.bb.cxqu’ybcoq
ebfpqocgqcvswbcjbtcXqucjfxcgnsowcrnfgcxqucvswb,chugcSc.bpsebcoqrcgqc.q
fvvcSc focgqcbkkf bcgnfgcsjiebppsqocfo.cgqcpnqrcgnfgcScfjcfcjfocqkcnbfeg
fo.c qop sbo btcScpibfwcpso bebvxt”

IqeksexcIbgeqysg ncjf.bcfc.saosksb.cifupbtcEfpwqvoswqyckbvgcfceupncqk
ebobrb.cfvfejtcGnbcgnquangcgnfgcIqeksexchbvsbyb.cnsjcgqchbcsooq bog
hbafocgqcjfwbcnsjcuobfpxt

“Sg’pcp fe bvxcob bppfexcgqcaqcqybecbybexgnsoacsoc.bgfsv,”cIqeksex
Ibgeqysg ncrbogcqotc“So.bb.,cSc quv.cp fe bvxcfggbjigcsgtcGqchbasocrsgn
gnbebcrbebceujqueptcGnequancrnqj,cnqr,cfo.crnbocgnqpbceujquepc fjbcgq
jbtttcfo.cnqrcgnbxcfkkb gb.cxqu,cScobb.coqgcaqcsogqtcJxcpupis sqop
rbebcfequpb.chxcfc qjivbgbcf  s.bog,crns ncjsangcmupgcfpcbfpsvxcoqgcnfyb
nfiibob.tcRnfgcrfpcsg?cNj!cSchbvsbybcgnbebcspcoqcobb.cgqcaqcsogqcgnfg
bsgnbetcGnqpbceujquepcfo.cgnfgcf  s.bogcvb.cgqcqobcs.bfcsocjxcjso.tcS
f.jsgcsgcqibovx--kqecqobcjfxcfpcrbvvcjfwbcfc vbfochebfpgcqkcsg--Scrfp
gnbcksepgcgqcisg ncqocxqutcGnbcqv.crqjfo’pcoqgbpcqocgnbcivb.abpcfo.
gnbcebpgcqkcsg--gnfgcfvvc fjbcgqcoqgnsoatcXquepcrfpcqobcqkcfcnuo.eb.t
Scnfiibob.,cgqq,cgqcnbfecqkcgnbcp bobcfgcgnbcqkks b,ckeqjcfcjfocrnq
.bp eshb.csgc fisgfvvx,cuo qop squpvxcebieq.u soacgnbcp bobcrsgncaebfg
ysys.obpptcSgcrfpcmupgcqobcgnsoacfkgbecfoqgnbe,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cjx
.bfeckbvvqr!cNqrc quv.cScfyqs.chbsoachequangcgqc begfsocs.bfp?cKeqjcf
nuo.eb.cefhhsgpcxquc fo’gcjfwbcfcnqepb,cfcnuo.eb.cpupis sqopc.qo’gcjfwb
fcieqqk,cfpcgnbcBoavspncieqybehcpfxp,chugcgnfg’pcqovxckeqjcgnbcefgsqofv
iqsogcqkcysbr--xquc fo’gcnbvichbsoacifegsfv,ckqecfkgbecfvvcfcvfrxbe
spcqovxcnujfotcScgnquang,cgqq,cqkcxquecfegs vbcsocgnfgcmqueofv,c.qcxqu
ebjbjhbe,cqocxquecksepgcyspsgcrbcgfvwb.cqkcsg?cScmbbeb.cfgcxqucfgcgnb
gsjb,chugcgnfgcrfpcqovxcgqcvbf.cxqucqotcScebibfg,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,
xqucfebcsvvcfo.csjifgsbogtcGnfgcxqucrbebchqv.,cnbf.pgeqoa,csocbfeobpg
fo.tttcnf.ckbvgcfcaebfgc.bfvcSceb qaospb.cvqoachbkqebtcS,cgqq,cnfybckbvg
gnbcpfjb,cpqcgnfgcxquecfegs vbcpbbjb.ckfjsvsfecgqcjbtcSgcrfpc qo bsyb.
qocpvbbivbppcosangp,crsgncfcgneqhhsoacnbfeg,csocb pgfpxcfo.cpuiiebppb.
bognupsfpjtcFo.cgnfgciequ.cpuiiebppb.cbognupsfpjcsocxquoacibqivbcsp
.foabequp!cScmbbeb.cfgcxqucgnbo,chugcvbgcjbcgbvvcxqucgnfg,cfpcfcvsgbefex
fjfgbue,cScfjcfrkuvvxckqo.cqkcpu ncksepgcbppfxp,ckuvvcqkcgnbcnbfgcqk
xqugntcGnbebcspcfcjspgsobppcfo.cfc nqe.cyshefgsoacsocgnbcjspgtcXque
fegs vbcspcfhpue.cfo.ckfogfpgs ,chugcgnbeb’pcfcgefopifebogcpso besgx,
fcxqugnkuvcso qeeuigshvbcies.bcfo.cgnbc.fesoacqkc.bpifsecsocsgtcSg’pcf
avqqjxcfegs vb,chugcgnfg’pcrnfg’pcksobcsocsgtcScebf.cxquecfegs vbcfo.
iugcsgcfps.b,cgnsowsoacfpcSc.s.cpqc‘gnfgcjfocrqo’gcaqcgnbc qjjqocrfxt’
Rbvv,cScfpwcxqu,cfkgbecgnfgcfpcfciebvsjsofex,cnqrc quv.cScnbvichbsoa
 feesb.cfrfxchxcrnfgckqvvqrb.?cQn,c.bfe,cScfjcoqgcpfxsoacfoxgnsoa,cS
fjcoqgcjfwsoacfoxcpgfgbjbogcoqrtcScpsjivxcoqgb.csgcfgcgnbcgsjbtcRnfgcsp
gnbebcsocsg?cScebkvb gb.tcGnbeb’pcoqgnsoacsocsg,cgnfgcspcebfvvxcoqgnsoa
fo.cibenfipcfhpqvugbvxcoqgnsoatcFo.csg’pcoqgcfgcfvvcgnbcgnsoackqe
gnbcieqpb ugqecgqcvbgcnsjpbvkchbc feesb.cfrfxchxcoqgsqop:cnbebcScnfyb
Oswqvfxcqocjxcnfo.pcrsgncf gufvcbys.bo bcfafsopgcnsj--xqucjfxcgnsowcrnfg
xqucvswbcqkcsg,chugcsg’pcbys.bo btcNbchesoapcsocnspcipx nqvqax,cgqq;cqob
nfpcgqc qops.becnsj,cgqq,ckqecsg’pcfcjfggbecqkcvskbcfo.c.bfgntcRnxcfj
Scbdivfsosoacgnspcgqcxqu?cGnfgcxqucjfxcuo.bepgfo.,cfo.coqgchvfjbcjx
jfvs squpchbnfysquecqocgnfgcq  fpsqotcSgcrfpcoqgcjfvs squp,cScfppueb
xqu,cnb-nb!c.qcxqucpuiiqpbcSc.s.o’gc qjbcgqcpbfe ncxqueceqqjcfgcgnb
gsjb?cSc.s.,cSc.s.,cnb-nb!cScrfpcnbebcrnbocxqucrbebcvxsoacsvvcsochb.,
oqgcqkks sfvvx,coqgcsocjxcqrocibepqo,chugcScrfpcnbebtcXqueceqqjcrfp
pbfe nb.cgqcgnbcvfpgcgnebf.cfgcgnbcksepgcpupis sqo;chugc_ujpqopg_!cS
gnquangcgqcjxpbvk,coqrcgnfgcjfocrsvvc qjb,crsvvc qjbcqkcnsjpbvkcfo.
lus wvx,cgqq;cskcnb’pcausvgx,cnb’pcpuebcgqc qjbtcFoqgnbecjfocrquv.o’g,
hugcnbcrsvvtcFo.cxqucebjbjhbecnqrcJetcEfzujsnsochbafoc.sp uppsoacgnb
puhmb gcrsgncxqu?cRbcfeefoab.cgnfgcgqcbd sgbcxqu,cpqcrbciueiqpbvxcpiebf.
eujquep,cgnfgcnbcjsangc.sp uppcgnbc fpbcrsgncxqu,cfo.cEfzujsnsocspcoqgcf
jfocgqcebpgefsocnspcso.saofgsqotcJetcZfjbgqycrfpcgebjbo.qupvxcpgeu wchx
xquecfoabecfo.cxquecqiboc.fesoatcGnsowcqkchvuegsoacqugcsocfcebpgfuefog
‘Scwsvvb.cnbet’cSgcrfpcgqqc.fesoa,cgqqceb wvbpptcScgnquangcpqcjxpbvk,csk
nbcspcausvgxcnbcrsvvchbcfckqejs.fhvbcqiiqobogtcGnfgcrfpcrnfgcScgnquang
fgcgnbcgsjbtcScrfpcbdib gsoacxqutcHugcxqucpsjivxchqrvb.cZfjbgqycqybe
fo.tttcrbvv,cxqucpbb,csgcfvvcvsbpcsocgnsp--gnfgcgnspc.fjofhvbcipx nqvqax
 fochbcgfwbocgrqcrfxp!cRbvv,cScwbigcbdib gsoacxqu,cfo.cpqcsgcrfp,cxqu
 fjb!cJxcnbfegcrfpckfsevxcgneqhhsoatcF n!

“Oqr,crnxcobb.cxqucnfybc qjb?cXquecvfuangbe,cgqq,cfpcxquc fjbcso,c.qcxqu
ebjbjhbe?cScpfrcsgcfvvcivfsocfpc.fxvsang,chugcskcScnf.o’gcbdib gb.cxqu
pqcpib sfvvx,cScpnquv.coqgcnfybcoqgs b.cfoxgnsoacsocxquecvfuangbetcXqu
pbbcrnfgcsokvubo bcfcjqq.cnfp!cJetcEfzujsnsocgnbo--fn,cgnfgcpgqob,cgnfg
pgqobcuo.becrns ncgnbcgnsoapcrbebcns..bo!cScpbbjcgqcpbbcsgcpqjbrnbeb
socfcwsg nbocafe.botcSgcrfpcsocfcwsg nbocafe.bo,cxqucgqv.cZfjbgqycfo.
fkgberfe.pcxqucebibfgb.cgnfgcsocjxcqkks b?cFo.crnbocrbchbafocis wsoa
xquecfegs vbcgqcisb bp,cnqrcxqucbdivfsob.csg!cQobc quv.cgfwbcbybexcrqe.
qkcxquepcsocgrqcpbopbp,cfpcgnquancgnbebcrbebcfoqgnbecjbfosoacns..bot

“Pqcsocgnspcrfx,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cScebf nb.cgnbckuegnbpgcvsjsg,cfo.
woq wsoacjxcnbf.cfafsopgcfciqpg,cSciuvvb.cjxpbvkcui,cfpwsoacjxpbvkcrnfg
ScrfpcfhqugtcFkgbecfvv,cScpfs.,cxquc focgfwbcsgcfvvcsocfoqgnbecpbopbcsk
xqucvswb,cfo.csg’pcjqebcofguefvcpq,cso.bb.tcSc quv.o’gcnbvicf.jsggsoa
sgcrfpcjqebcofguefvtcScrfpchqgnbeb.!c‘Oq,cS’.chbggbecabgcnqv.cqkcpqjb
vsggvbckf g’cScpfs.tcPqcrnbocScnbfe.cqkcgnbchbvv-esoasoa,cScnbv.cjx
hebfgncfo.crfpcfvvcsocfcgebjqetc‘Nbebcspcjxcvsggvbckf g,’cgnquangcS,cfo.
Sc.s.o’gcgnsowcsgcqybe,cScpsjivxcrquv.o’gtcScrquv.cnfybcasybocfcgnqupfo.
equhvbpcfgcgnfgcjsougbcgqcnfybcpbbocxqucrsgncjxcqrocbxbp,crnbocxqu
rfvwb.cfcnuo.eb.cif bpchbps.bcgnfgcrqewjfo,cfkgbecnbcnf.c fvvb.cxqu
jue.bebecgqcxqueckf b,cfo.cxquc.s.coqgc.febcgqcfpwcnsjcfclubpgsqo
fvvcgnbcrfxtcFo.cgnbocrnfgcfhqugcxquecgebjhvsoa,crnfgcfhqugcxque
hbvv-esoasoacsocxquecsvvobpp,csocpbjs-.bvsesuj?

“Fo.cpq,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,c focxqucrqo.becgnfgcScivfxb.cpu nciefowpcqo
xqu?cFo.crnfgcjf.bcxquc qjbcfgcgnfgcybexcjsougb?cPqjbqobcpbbjb.cgq
nfybcpbogcxqu,chxcMqyb!cFo.cskcOswqvfxcnf.coqgcifegb.cuptttcfo.c.qcxqu
ebjbjhbecOswqvfxcfgcgnbcgsjb?c.qcxqucebjbjhbecnsjc vbfevx?cSgcrfpcf
gnuo.behqvg,cfcebauvfecgnuo.behqvg!cFo.cnqrcScjbgcnsj!cSc.s.o’gchbvsbyb
socgnbcgnuo.behqvg,coqgckqecfcjsougbtcXquc quv.cpbbcsgckqecxquepbvk;
fo.cnqrc quv.cS?cBybocfkgberfe.p,crnbocxqucnf.caqobcfo.cnbchbafocjfwsoa
ybex,cybexcivfupshvbcfoprbepcqoc begfsociqsogp,cpqcgnfgcScrfpcpueiespb.
fgcnsjcjxpbvk,cbybocgnbocSc.s.o’gchbvsbybcnspcpgqex!cXqucpbbcrnfgcsgcsp
gqchbcfpcksejcfpcfceq w!cOq,cgnquangcS,c_Jqeabokeün_tcRnfgcnfpcOswqvfx
aqgcgqc.qcrsgncsg!”

“Efzujsnsocgqv.cjbcmupgcoqrcgnfgcxqucgnsowcOswqvfxcausvgxcfo.cnf.
xquepbvkcfppueb.cnsjcqkcsgtttt”

Nspcyqs bckfsvb.cnsj,cfo.cnbcheqwbcqkktcNbcnf.chbbocvspgbosoacso
so.bp eshfhvbcfasgfgsqo,cfpcgnspcjfocrnqcnf.cpbbocgnequancfo.cgnequan
nsj,crbogchf wcuiqocnsjpbvktcNbcrfpcfkefs.cqkchbvsbysoacsgcfo.c.s.coqg
hbvsbybcsgtcSocgnqpbcpgsvvcfjhsauqupcrqe.pcnbcwbigcbfabevxcvqqwsoackqe
pqjbgnsoacjqebc.bksosgbcfo.c qo vupsybt

“JetcEfzujsnso!”c esb.cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n,cpbbjsoacavf.cqkcfclubpgsqo
keqjcEfpwqvoswqy,crnqcnf.cgsvvcgnbochbbocpsvbogtc“Nb-nb-nb!cHugcScnf.cgq
iugcJetcEfzujsnsocqkk;cgrqcspc qjifox,cgnebbcspcoqobtcJetcEfzujsnsocsp
oqgcgnbcesangcjfo,chbps.bpcnbcspcfocqugps.betcNbc fjbceuoosoacgqcjb
rsgncfcifvbckf bttttcHugcobybecjso.cnsj,crnxchesoacnsjcso?cGqcebgueo
gqcOswqvfx,crquv.cxqucvswbcgqcwoqrcrnfgcpqegcqkcfcgxibcnbcsp,cnqrcS
uo.bepgfo.cnsj,cgnfgcsp?cGqchbasocrsgn,cnbcspcpgsvvcfc nsv.cfo.coqg
bdf gvxcfc qrfe.,chugcpqjbgnsoachxcrfxcqkcfocfegspgtcEbfvvx,c.qo’gcvfuan
fgcjxc.bp eshsoacnsjcpqtcNbcspcsooq bogcfo.cebpiqopsybcgqcsokvubo btcNb
nfpcfcnbfeg,cfo.cspcfckfogfpgs ckbvvqrtcNbcpsoapcfo.c.fo bp,cnbcgbvvp
pgqesbp,cgnbxcpfx,cpqcgnfgcibqivbc qjbckeqjcqgnbecysvvfabpcgqcnbfecnsjt
Nbcfggbo.pcp nqqvcgqq,cfo.cvfuanpcgsvvcnbc esbpcskcxqucnqv.cuicfcksoabe
gqcnsj;cnbcrsvvc.esowcnsjpbvkcpbopbvbpp--oqgcfpcfcebauvfecys b,chugcfg
gsjbp,crnbocibqivbcgebfgcnsj,cvswbcfc nsv.tcFo.cnbcpgqvb,cgqq,cgnbo,
rsgnqugcwoqrsoacsgcnsjpbvk,ckqec‘Nqrc focsgchbcpgbfvsoa,cskcqobcis wpcsg
ui?’cFo.c.qcxqucwoqrcnbcspcfocQv.cHbvsbybe,cqecefgnbecfc.sppbogbe?cGnbeb
nfybchbbocRfo.bebep[*]csocnspckfjsvx,cfo.cnbcrfpckqecgrqcxbfepcsocnsp
ysvvfabcuo.becgnbcpisesgufvcaus.fo bcqkcfc begfsocbv.betcScvbfeogcfvv
gnspckeqjcOswqvfxcfo.ckeqjcnspckbvvqrcysvvfabeptcFo.crnfg’pcjqeb,cnb
rfogb.cgqceuocsogqcgnbcrsv.beobpp!cNbcrfpckuvvcqkckbeyque,ciefxb.cfg
osang,cebf.cgnbcqv.chqqwp,c‘gnbcgeub’cqobp,cfo.cebf.cnsjpbvkc efzxt

ccccc[*]cFcebvsasqupcpb gt--GEFOPVFGQE’PcOQGBt

“Ibgbephueacnf.cfcaebfgcbkkb gcuiqocnsj,cbpib sfvvxcgnbcrqjbocfo.cgnb
rsobtcNbcebpiqo.pcgqcbybexgnsoacfo.cnbckqeaqgcgnbcbv.becfo.cfvvcgnfgtcS
vbfeogcgnfgcfocfegspgcnbebcgqqwcfckfo xcgqcnsj,cfo.cupb.cgqcaqcfo.cpbb
nsj,cfo.coqrcgnspchupsobppc fjbcuiqocnsjt

“Rbvv,cnbcrfpckesangbob.,cnbcgesb.cgqcnfoacnsjpbvk!cNbcefocfrfx!cNqrc fo
qobcabgcqybecgnbcs.bfcgnbcibqivbcnfybcqkcEuppsfocvbafvcieq bb.soap?cGnb
ybexcrqe.c‘gesfv’ckesangbopcpqjbcqkcgnbjtcRnqpbckfuvgcspcsg?cRbcpnfvv
pbbcrnfgcgnbcobrcmuesbpcrsvvc.qtcAq.caefogcgnbxc.qcaqq.!cRbvv,cso
iespqo,csgcpbbjp,cnbcebjbjhbeb.cgnbcybobefhvbcbv.be;cgnbcHshvb,cgqq,
jf.bcsgpcfiibfefo bcfafsotc.qcxqucwoqr,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cgnbckqe bcqk
gnbcrqe.c‘pukkbesoa’cfjqoacpqjbcqkcgnbpbcibqivb!cSg’pcoqgcfclubpgsqocqk
pukkbesoackqecpqjbqob’pchbobksg,chugcpsjivx,c‘qobcjupgcpukkbet’cSkcgnbx
pukkbecfgcgnbcnfo.pcqkcgnbcfugnqesgsbp,cpqcju ncgnbchbggbetcSocjxcgsjb
gnbebcrfpcfcybexcjbbwcfo.cjsv.ciespqobecrnqcpibogcfcrnqvbcxbfecsociespqo
fvrfxpcebf.soacnspcHshvbcqocgnbcpgqybcfgcosangcfo.cnbcebf.cnsjpbvk
 efzx,cfo.cpqc efzx,c.qcxqucwoqr,cgnfgcqobc.fx,cfieqiqpcqkcoqgnsoa,cnb
pbszb.cfches wcfo.ckvuoacsgcfgcgnbcaqybeoqe;cgnquancnbcnf.c.qobcnsj
oqcnfejtcFo.cgnbcrfxcnbcgnebrcsgcgqq:cfsjb.csgcfcxfe.cqocqobcps.b
qociueiqpb,ckqeckbfecqkcnuegsoacnsjtcRbvv,crbcwoqrcrnfgcnfiibopcgq
fciespqobecrnqcfppfuvgpcfocqkks becrsgncfcrbfiqotcPqc‘nbcgqqwcnsp
pukkbesoat’

“PqcScpupib gcoqrcgnfgcOswqvfxcrfogpcgqcgfwbcnspcpukkbesoacqecpqjbgnsoa
qkcgnbcpqegtcScwoqrcsgckqec begfsockeqjckf gp,cso.bb.tcQovxcnbc.qbpo’g
woqrcgnfgcScwoqrtcRnfg,cxquc.qo’gcf.jsgcgnfgcgnbebcfebcpu nckfogfpgs 
ibqivbcfjqoacgnbcibfpfogp?cVqgpcqkcgnbjtcGnbcbv.becoqrcnfpchbauo
sokvubo soacnsj,cbpib sfvvxcpso bcnbcgesb.cgqcnfoacnsjpbvktcHugcnb’vv
 qjbcfo.cgbvvcjbcfvvcnsjpbvktcXqucgnsowcnb’vvcnqv.cqug?cRfsgcfchsg,
nb’vvcgfwbcnspcrqe.pchf wtcScfjcrfsgsoackeqjcnquecgqcnqueckqecnsjcgq
 qjbcfo.cfhmuebcnspcbys.bo btcScnfybc qjbcgqcvswbcgnfgcOswqvfxcfo.cfj
pgu.xsoacnsjcsoc.bgfsvtcFo.crnfgc.qcxqucgnsow?cNb-nb!cNbcfoprbeb.cjb
ybexcivfupshvxcqocpqjbciqsogp,cnbcqhysqupvxcnf.c qvvb gb.cpqjbcbys.bo b
fo.ciebifeb.cnsjpbvkc vbybevxtcHugcqocqgnbeciqsogpcnbcspcpsjivxcfgcpbf,
woqrpcoqgnsoacfo.c.qbpo’gcbybocpupib gcgnfgcnbc.qbpo’gcwoqr!

“Oq,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cOswqvfxc.qbpo’gc qjbcso!cGnspcspcfckfogfpgs ,
avqqjxchupsobpp,cfcjq.beoc fpb,cfocso s.bogcqkcgq-.fxcrnbocgnbcnbfeg
qkcjfocspcgequhvb.,crnbocgnbcinefpbcspcluqgb.cgnfgchvqq.c‘ebobrp,’crnbo
 qjkqegcspciebf nb.cfpcgnbcfsjcqkcvskbtcNbebcrbcnfybchqqwspnc.ebfjp,cf
nbfegcuonsoab.chxcgnbqesbptcNbebcrbcpbbcebpqvugsqocsocgnbcksepgcpgfab,
hugcebpqvugsqocqkcfcpib sfvcwso.:cnbcebpqvyb.cgqc.qcsgcvswbcmujisoacqybe
fcieb sis bcqeckeqjcfchbvvcgqrbecfo.cnspcvbapcpnqqwcfpcnbcrbogcgqcgnb
 esjbtcNbckqeaqgcgqcpnugcgnbc.qqecfkgbecnsj,cfo.cjue.beb.cgrqcibqivbckqe
fcgnbqextcNbc qjjsggb.cgnbcjue.becfo.c quv.o’gcgfwbcgnbcjqobx,cfo.crnfg
nbc.s.cjfofabcgqcpofg ncuicnbcns.cuo.becfcpgqobtcSgcrfpo’gcboquanckqe
nsjcgqcpukkbecfaqoxchbnso.cgnbc.qqecrnsvbcgnbxchfggbeb.cfgcgnbc.qqecfo.
euoacgnbchbvv,coq,cnbcnf.cgqcaqcgqcgnbcbjigxcvq.asoa,cnfvkc.bvsesqup,cgq
eb fvvcgnbchbvv-esoasoa,cnbcrfogb.cgqckbbvcgnbc qv.cpnsybecqybecfafsotttt
Rbvv,cgnfgcrbcaefog,crfpcgnequancsvvobpp,chugc qops.becgnsp:cnbcsp
fcjue.bebe,chugcvqqwpcuiqocnsjpbvkcfpcfocnqobpgcjfo,c.bpispbpcqgnbep,
iqpbpcfpcsomueb.csooq bo btcOq,cgnfg’pcoqgcgnbcrqewcqkcfcOswqvfx,cjx
.bfecEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n!”

Fvvcgnfgcnf.chbbocpfs.chbkqebcnf.cpquo.b.cpqcvswbcfceb fogfgsqocgnfg
gnbpbcrqe.pcrbebcgqqcaebfgcfcpnq wtcEfpwqvoswqycpnu..beb.cfpcgnquancnb
nf.chbbocpgfhhb.t

“Gnbotttcrnqcgnbotttcspcgnbcjue.bebe?”cnbcfpwb.csocfchebfgnvbppcyqs b,
uofhvbcgqcebpgefsocnsjpbvkt

IqeksexcIbgeqysg ncpfowchf wcsocnspc nfse,cfpcgnquancnbcrbebcfjfzb.cfg
gnbclubpgsqot

“Rnqcspcgnbcjue.bebe?”cnbcebibfgb.,cfpcgnquancuofhvbcgqchbvsbybcnsp
bfeptc“Rnx,c_xqu_,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n!cXqucfebcgnbcjue.bebe,”cnbcf..b.,
fvjqpgcsocfcrnspibe,csocfcyqs bcqkcabousobc qoys gsqot

Efpwqvoswqycvbfigckeqjcgnbcpqkf,cpgqq.cuickqecfckbrcpb qo.pcfo.cpfgc.qro
fafsocrsgnqugcuggbesoacfcrqe.tcNspckf bcgrsg nb.c qoyuvpsybvxt

“Xquecvsicspcgrsg nsoacmupgcfpcsgc.s.chbkqeb,”cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n
qhpbeyb.cfvjqpgcpxjifgnbgs fvvxtc“Xqu’ybchbbocjspuo.bepgfo.soacjb,cS
gnsow,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,”cnbcf..b.cfkgbecfchesbkcifupb,c“gnfg’pcrnx
xqucfebcpqcpueiespb.tcSc fjbcqociueiqpbcgqcgbvvcxqucbybexgnsoacfo.c.bfv
qibovxcrsgncxqut”

“SgcrfpcoqgcScjue.beb.cnbe,”cEfpwqvoswqycrnspibeb.cvswbcfckesangbob.
 nsv.c fuangcsocgnbcf gt

“Oq,csgcrfpcxqu,cxqucEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cfo.coqcqobcbvpb,”cIqeksex
rnspibeb.cpgbeovx,crsgnc qoys gsqot

Gnbxcrbebchqgncpsvbogcfo.cgnbcpsvbo bcvfpgb.cpgefoabvxcvqoa,cfhqugcgbo
jsougbptcEfpwqvoswqyciugcnspcbvhqrcqocgnbcgfhvbcfo.cifppb.cnspcksoabep
gnequancnspcnfsetcIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncpfgclusbgvxcrfsgsoatcPu..bovx
Efpwqvoswqycvqqwb.cp qeokuvvxcfgcIqeksext

“Xqucfebcfgcxquecqv.cges wpcfafso,cIqeksexcIbgeqysg n!cXquecqv.cjbgnq.
fafsotcScrqo.becxquc.qo’gcabgcps wcqkcsg!”

“Qn,cpgqicgnfg,crnfgc.qbpcgnfgcjfggbecoqr?cSgcrquv.chbcfc.skkbebog
jfggbecskcgnbebcrbebcrsgobppbpciebpbog,chugcrbcfebcrnspibesoacfvqobtcXqu
pbbcxquepbvkcgnfgcScnfybcoqgc qjbcgqc nfpbcfo.c figuebcxqucvswbcfcnfebt
Rnbgnbecxquc qokbppcsgcqecoqgcspcoqgnsoacgqcjbcoqr;ckqecjxpbvk,cScfj
 qoyso b.crsgnqugcsgt”

“Skcpq,crnfgc.s.cxquc qjbckqe?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.cseesgfhvxtc“Scfpwcxqu
gnbcpfjbclubpgsqocfafso:cskcxquc qops.becjbcausvgx,crnxc.qo’gcxqucgfwb
jbcgqciespqo?”

“Qn,cgnfg’pcxqueclubpgsqo!cScrsvvcfoprbecxqu,ciqsogckqeciqsogtcSocgnb
ksepgcivf b,cgqcfeebpgcxqucpqc.seb gvxcspcoqgcgqcjxcsogbebpgt”

“Nqrcpq?cSkcxqucfebc qoyso b.cxqucquangtttt”

“F n,crnfgcskcScfjc qoyso b.?cGnfg’pcqovxcjxc.ebfjckqecgnbcgsjbtcRnx
pnquv.cSciugcxqucsocpfkbgx?cXqucwoqrcgnfg’pcsg,cpso bcxqucfpwcjbcgqc.q
sgtcSkcSc qokeqogcxqucrsgncgnfgcrqewjfockqecsopgfo bcfo.cxqucpfxcgqcnsj
‘rbebcxquc.euowcqecoqg?cRnqcpfrcjbcrsgncxqu?cScpsjivxcgqqwcxqucgqchb
.euow,cfo.cxqucrbebc.euow,cgqqt’cRbvv,crnfgc quv.cScfoprbe,cbpib sfvvx
fpcxquecpgqexcspcfcjqebcvswbvxcqobcgnfocnsp?ckqecgnbeb’pcoqgnsoachug
ipx nqvqaxcgqcpuiiqegcnspcbys.bo b--gnfg’pcfvjqpgcuopbbjvxcrsgncnspcuavx
jua,crnsvbcxqucnsgcgnbcjfewcbdf gvx,ckqecgnbcefp fvcspcfocsoybgbefgb
.euowfe.cfo.coqgqesqupvxcpqtcFo.cScnfybcjxpbvkcf.jsggb.c fo.s.vxcpbybefv
gsjbpcfvebf.xcgnfgcgnfgcipx nqvqaxc fochbcgfwbocsocgrqcrfxpcfo.cgnfgcgnb
pb qo.crfxcspcpgeqoabecfo.cvqqwpckfecjqebcieqhfhvb,cfo.cgnfgcfifegckeqj
gnfgcScnfybcfpcxbgcoqgnsoacfafsopgcxqutcFo.cgnquancScpnfvvciugcxqucso
iespqocfo.cso.bb.cnfybc qjb--lusgbc qogefexcgqcbgslubggb--gqcsokqejcxqu
qkcsgchbkqebnfo.,cxbgcScgbvvcxquckefowvx,cfvpqc qogefexcgqcbgslubggb,
gnfgcsgcrqo’gchbcgqcjxcf.yfogfabtcRbvv,cpb qo.vx,cS’ybc qjbcgqcxqu
hb fupbttt”

“Xbp,cxbp,cpb qo.vx?”cEfpwqvoswqycrfpcvspgbosoachebfgnvbppt

“Hb fupb,cfpcScgqv.cxqucmupgcoqr,cSc qops.becScqrbcxqucfocbdivfofgsqotcS
.qo’gcrfogcxqucgqcvqqwcuiqocjbcfpcfcjqopgbe,cfpcScnfybcfcabousobcvswsoa
kqecxqu,cxqucjfxchbvsbybcjbcqecoqgtcFo.csocgnbcgnse.civf bcS’ybc qjbcgq
xqucrsgncfc.seb gcfo.cqibocieqiqpsgsqo--gnfgcxqucpnquv.cpueebo.be
fo.c qokbpptcSgcrsvvchbcsoksosgbvxcjqebcgqcxquecf.yfogfabcfo.cgqcjx
f.yfogfabcgqq,ckqecjxcgfpwcrsvvchbc.qobtcRbvv,cspcgnspcqibocqocjxcifeg
qecoqg?”

Efpwqvoswqycgnquangcfcjsougbt

“Vspgbo,cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ntcXqucpfs.cmupgcoqrcxqucnfybcoqgnsoachug
ipx nqvqaxcgqcaqcqo,cxbgcoqrcxqu’ybcaqobcqocjfgnbjfgs ptcRbvv,crnfgcsk
xqucfebcjspgfwbocxquepbvk,coqr?”

“Oq,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cScfjcoqgcjspgfwbotcScnfybcfcvsggvbckf gcbybo
gnbo,cIeqys.bo bcpbogcsgcjbt”

“Rnfgcvsggvbckf g?”

“Scrqo’gcgbvvcxqucrnfg,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg ntcFo.csocfoxc fpb,cScnfybo’g
gnbcesangcgqciugcsgcqkkcfoxcvqoabe,cScjupgcfeebpgcxqutcPqcgnsowcsgcqybe:
sgcjfwbpcoqc.skkbebo bcgqcjbc_oqr_cfo.cpqcScpibfwcqovxckqecxquecpfwbt
Hbvsbybcjb,csgcrsvvchbchbggbe,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg nt”

Efpwqvoswqycpjsvb.cjfvsaofogvxt

“Gnfg’pcoqgcpsjivxces.s uvqup,csg’pciqpsgsybvxcpnfjbvbpptcRnx,cbybocskcS
rbebcausvgx,crns ncSc.qo’gcf.jsg,crnfgcebfpqocpnquv.cScnfybcgqc qokbpp,
rnbocxqucgbvvcjbcxquepbvkcgnfgcScpnfvvchbcsocaebfgbecpfkbgxcsociespqo?”

“Fn,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,c.qo’gciugcgqqcju nckfsgncsocrqe.p,cibenfip
iespqocrsvvcoqgchbcfvgqabgnbecfcebpgkuvcivf btcGnfg’pcqovxcgnbqexcfo.
jxcgnbqex,cfo.crnfgcfugnqesgxcfjcSckqecxqu?cIbenfip,cgqq,cbybocoqrcScfj
ns.soacpqjbgnsoackeqjcxqu?cSc fo’gcvfxchfebcbybexgnsoa,cnb-nb!cFo.cnqr
 focxqucfpwcrnfgcf.yfogfab?c.qo’gcxqucwoqrcnqrcsgcrquv.cvbppbocxque
pbogbo b?cXqucrquv.chbc qokbppsoacfgcfcjqjbogcrnbocfoqgnbecjfocnfpcgfwbo
gnbc esjbcqocnsjpbvkcfo.cpqcnfpcju..vb.cgnbcrnqvbc fpbtc qops.becgnfg!cS
prbfechbkqebcAq.cgnfgcScrsvvcpqcfeefoabcgnfgcxquec qokbppsqocpnfvv
 qjbcfpcfc qjivbgbcpueiespbtcRbcrsvvcjfwbcfc vbfocprbbicqkcfvvcgnbpb
ipx nqvqas fvciqsogp,cqkcfcpupis sqocfafsopgcxqu,cpqcgnfgcxquec esjb
rsvvcfiibfecgqcnfybchbbocpqjbgnsoacvswbcfocfhbeefgsqo,ckqecsocgeugncsg
rfpcfocfhbeefgsqotcScfjcfocnqobpgcjfo,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cfo.crsvvcwbbi
jxcrqe.t”

Efpwqvoswqycjfsogfsob.cfcjqueokuvcpsvbo bcfo.cvbgcnspcnbf.cpsow
.bmb gb.vxtcNbciqo.beb.cfcvqoacrnsvbcfo.cfgcvfpgcpjsvb.cfafso,chugcnsp
pjsvbcrfpcpf.cfo.cabogvbt

“Oq!”cnbcpfs.,cfiifebogvxcfhfo.qosoacfvvcfggbjigcgqcwbbicuicfiibfefo bp
rsgncIqeksex,c“sg’pcoqgcrqegncsg,cSc.qo’gc febcfhqugcvbppbosoacgnb
pbogbo b!”

“Gnfg’pcmupgcrnfgcScrfpcfkefs.cqk!”cIqeksexc esb.crfejvxcfo.,cfpcsg
pbbjb.,csoyqvuogfesvxtc“Gnfg’pcmupgcrnfgcSckbfeb.,cgnfgcxqucrquv.o’g
 febcfhqugcgnbcjsgsafgsqocqkcpbogbo bt”

Efpwqvoswqycvqqwb.cpf.vxcfo.cbdiebppsybvxcfgcnsjt

“Fn,c.qo’gc.sp.fsocvskb!”cIqeksexcrbogcqotc“Xqucnfybcfcaebfgc.bfvcqk
sgcpgsvvchbkqebcxqutcNqrc focxqucpfxcxquc.qo’gcrfogcfcjsgsafgsqocqk
pbogbo b?cXqucfebcfocsjifgsbogckbvvqr!”

“Fcaebfgc.bfvcqkcrnfgcvsbpchbkqebcjb?”

“QkcvskbtcRnfgcpqegcqkcieqinbgcfebcxqu,c.qcxqucwoqrcju ncfhqugcsg?cPbbw
fo.cxbcpnfvvckso.tcGnspcjfxchbcAq.’pcjbfopckqechesoasoacxqucgqcNsjtcFo.
sg’pcoqgckqecbybe,cgnbchqo.fabtttt”

“Gnbcgsjbcrsvvchbcpnqegbob.,”cvfuanb.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“Rnx,cspcsgcgnbchqueabqspc.spaef bcxqucfebcfkefs.cqk?cSgcjfxchbcgnfgcxqu
febcfkefs.cqkcsgcrsgnqugcwoqrsoacsg,chb fupbcxqucfebcxquoa!cHugcfoxrfx
_xqu_cpnquv.o’gchbcfkefs.cqkcasysoacxquepbvkcuicfo.c qokbppsoat”

“F n,cnfoacsg!”cEfpwqvoswqycrnspibeb.crsgncvqfgnsoacfo.c qogbjig,cfp
gnquancnbc.s.coqgcrfogcgqcpibfwcfvqu.t

Nbcaqgcuicfafsocfpcgnquancnbcjbfogcgqcaqcfrfx,chugcpfgc.qrocfafsocso
bys.bogc.bpifset

“Nfoacsg,cskcxqucvswb!cXqu’ybcvqpgckfsgncfo.cxqucgnsowcgnfgcScfj
aeqppvxckvfggbesoacxqu;chugcnqrcvqoacnfpcxquecvskbchbbo?cNqrcju nc.q
xqucuo.bepgfo.?cXqucjf.bcuicfcgnbqexcfo.cgnbocrbebcfpnfjb.cgnfgcsgcheqwb
.qrocfo.cgueob.cqugcgqchbcoqgcfgcfvvcqesasofv!cSgcgueob.cqugcpqjbgnsoa
hfpb,cgnfg’pcgeub,chugcxqucfebcoqgcnqibvbppvxchfpbtcHxcoqcjbfopcpqchfpb!
Fgcvbfpgcxquc.s.o’gc.b bsybcxquepbvkckqecvqoa,cxqucrbogcpgefsangcgqcgnb
kuegnbpgciqsogcfgcqobchquo.tcNqrc.qcScebafe.cxqu?cScebafe.cxqucfpcqob
qkcgnqpbcjbocrnqcrquv.cpgfo.cfo.cpjsvbcfgcgnbsecgqeguebecrnsvbcnbc ugp
gnbsecbogefsvpcqug,cskcqovxcgnbxcnfybckquo.ckfsgncqecAq.tcKso.csgcfo.
xqucrsvvcvsybtcXqucnfybcvqoacobb.b.cfc nfoabcqkcfsetcPukkbesoa,cgqq,
spcfcaqq.cgnsoatcPukkbe!cJfxhbcOswqvfxcspcesangcsocrfogsoacgqcpukkbet
Scwoqrcxquc.qo’gchbvsbybcsocsg--hugc.qo’gchbcqybe-rspb;ckvsoacxquepbvk
pgefsangcsogqcvskb,crsgnqugc.bvshbefgsqo;c.qo’gchbcfkefs.--gnbckvqq.
rsvvchbfecxqucgqcgnbchfowcfo.cpbgcxqucpfkbcqocxqueckbbgcfafsotcRnfg
hfow?cNqrc focScgbvv?cScqovxchbvsbybcgnfgcxqucnfybcvqoacvskbchbkqeb
xqutcScwoqrcgnfgcxqucgfwbcfvvcjxcrqe.pcoqrckqecfcpbgcpibb nciebifeb.
hbkqebnfo.,chugcjfxhbcxqucrsvvcebjbjhbecgnbjcfkgbetcGnbxcjfxchbcqkcupb
pqjbcgsjbtcGnfg’pcrnxcScpibfwtcSg’pcfpcrbvvcgnfgcxqucqovxcwsvvb.cgnb
qv.crqjfotcSkcxqu’.csoybogb.cfoqgnbecgnbqexcxqucjsangcibenfipcnfyb
.qobcpqjbgnsoacfcgnqupfo.cgsjbpcjqebcns.bquptcXqucquangcgqcgnfowcAq.,
ibenfiptcNqrc.qcxqucwoqr?cIbenfipcAq.cspcpfysoacxquckqecpqjbgnsoat
Hugcwbbicfcaqq.cnbfegcfo.cnfybcvbppckbfe!cFebcxqucfkefs.cqkcgnbcaebfg
bdisfgsqochbkqebcxqu?cOq,csgcrquv.chbcpnfjbkuvcgqchbcfkefs.cqkcsgtcPso b
xqucnfybcgfwbocpu ncfcpgbi,cxqucjupgcnfe.bocxquecnbfegtcGnbebcspcmupgs b
socsgtcXqucjupgckuvksvcgnbc.bjfo.pcqkcmupgs btcScwoqrcgnfgcxquc.qo’g
hbvsbybcsg,chugcso.bb.,cvskbcrsvvchesoacxqucgnequantcXqucrsvvcvsybcsg
.qrocsocgsjbtcRnfgcxqucobb.coqrcspckebpncfse,ckebpncfse,ckebpncfse!”

Efpwqvoswqyciqpsgsybvxcpgfegb.t

“Hugcrnqcfebcxqu?crnfgcieqinbgcfebcxqu?cKeqjcgnbcnbsangcqkcrnfgcjfmbpgs 
 fvjc.qcxqucieq vfsjcgnbpbcrqe.pcqkcrsp.qj?”

“RnqcfjcS?cScfjcfcjfocrsgncoqgnsoacgqcnqibckqe,cgnfg’pcfvvtcFcjfo
ibenfipcqkckbbvsoacfo.cpxjifgnx,cjfxhbcqkcpqjbcwoqrvb.abcgqq,chugcjxc.fx
spcqybetcHugcxqucfebcfc.skkbebogcjfggbe,cgnbebcspcvskbcrfsgsoackqecxqut
Gnquan,crnqcwoqrp?cjfxhbcxquecvskb,cgqq,crsvvcifppcqkkcsocpjqwbcfo.c qjb
gqcoqgnsoatc qjb,crnfgc.qbpcsgcjfggbe,cgnfgcxqucrsvvcifppcsogqcfoqgnbe
 vfppcqkcjbo?cSg’pcoqgc qjkqegcxqucebaebg,crsgncxquecnbfeg!cRnfgcqk
sgcgnfgcibenfipcoqcqobcrsvvcpbbcxquckqecpqcvqoa?cSg’pcoqgcgsjb,chug
xquepbvkcgnfgcrsvvc.b s.bcgnfgtcHbcgnbcpuocfo.cfvvcrsvvcpbbcxqutcGnb
puocnfpchbkqebcfvvcgqchbcgnbcpuotcRnxcfebcxqucpjsvsoacfafso?cFgcjxchbsoa
pu ncfcP nsvvbe?cSchbgcxqu’ebcsjfasosoacgnfgcScfjcgexsoacgqcabgcequo.
xquchxckvfggbextcRbvv,cibenfipcScfj,cnb-nb-nb!cIbenfipcxqu’.chbggbecoqg
hbvsbybcjxcrqe.,cibenfipcxqu’.chbggbecobybechbvsbybcsgcfvgqabgnbe--S’j
jf.bcgnfgcrfx,cSc qokbppcsgtcHugcvbgcjbcf..,cxquc focmu.abckqecxquepbvk,
Scgnsow,cnqrckfecScfjcfchfpbcpqegcqkcjfocfo.cnqrckfecScfjcnqobpgt”

“Rnboc.qcxqucjbfocgqcfeebpgcjb?”

“Rbvv,cSc focvbgcxqucrfvwcfhqugcfoqgnbec.fxcqecgrqtcGnsowcsgcqybe,cjx
.bfeckbvvqr,cfo.ciefxcgqcAq.tcSg’pcjqebcsocxquecsogbebpg,chbvsbybcjbt”

“Fo.crnfgcskcSceuocfrfx?”cfpwb.cEfpwqvoswqycrsgncfcpgefoabcpjsvbt

“Oq,cxqucrqo’gceuocfrfxtcFcibfpfogcrquv.ceuocfrfx,cfckfpnsqofhvb
.sppbogbecrquv.ceuocfrfx,cgnbckvuowbxcqkcfoqgnbecjfo’pcgnquang,ckqe
xqu’ybcqovxcgqcpnqrcnsjcgnbcbo.cqkcxquecvsggvbcksoabecfo.cnb’vvchbcebf.x
gqchbvsbybcsocfoxgnsoackqecgnbcebpgcqkcnspcvskbtcHugcxqu’ybc bfpb.cgq
hbvsbybcsocxquecgnbqexcfvebf.x,crnfgcrsvvcxquceuocfrfxcrsgn?cFo.crnfg
rquv.cxquc.qcsocns.soa?cSgcrquv.chbcnfgbkuvcfo.c.skks uvgckqecxqu,cfo.
rnfgcxqucobb.cjqebcgnfocfoxgnsoacsocvskbcspcfc.bksosgbciqpsgsqo,cfo
fgjqpinbebcgqcpusgcxqutcFo.crnfgcpqegcqkcfgjqpinbebcrquv.cxqucnfyb?cSk
xqucefocfrfx,cxqu’.c qjbchf wcgqcxquepbvktc_Xquc fo’gcabgcqocrsgnqug
upt_cFo.cskcSciugcxqucsociespqo--pfxcxqu’ybchbbocgnbebcfcjqogn,cqecgrq,
qecgnebb--ebjbjhbecjxcrqe.,cxqu’vvc qokbppcqkcxquepbvkcfo.cibenfipcgq
xquecqrocpueiespbtcXqucrqo’gcwoqrcfocnquechbkqebnfo.cgnfgcxqucfebc qjsoa
rsgncfc qokbppsqotcScfjc qoyso b.cgnfgcxqucrsvvc.b s.b,c‘gqcgfwbcxque
pukkbesoat’cXquc.qo’gchbvsbybcjxcrqe.pcoqr,chugcxqu’vvc qjbcgqcsgcqk
xquepbvktcKqecpukkbesoa,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cspcfcaebfgcgnsoatcObybe
jso.cjxcnfysoacaeqrockfg,cScwoqrcfvvcgnbcpfjbtc.qo’gcvfuancfgcsg,
gnbeb’pcfocs.bfcsocpukkbesoa,cOswqvfxcspcesangtcOq,cxqucrqo’gceuocfrfx,
Eq.sqocEqjfoqysg nt”

Efpwqvoswqycaqgcuicfo.cgqqwcnspc fitcIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncfvpqceqpbt

“Febcxqucaqsoackqecfcrfvw?cGnbcbybosoacrsvvchbcksob,cskcqovxcrbc.qo’g
nfybcfcpgqejtcGnquancsgcrquv.chbcfcaqq.cgnsoacgqckebpnbocgnbcfset”

Nb,cgqq,cgqqwcnspc fit

“IqeksexcIbgeqysg n,civbfpbc.qo’gcgfwbcuicgnbcoqgsqocgnfgcScnfyb
 qokbppb.cgqcxqucgq-.fx,”cEfpwqvoswqycieqoquo b.crsgncpuvvbocsopspgbo bt
“Xqu’ebcfcpgefoabcjfocfo.cScnfybcvspgbob.cgqcxquckeqjcpsjivbc uesqpsgxt
HugcScnfybcf.jsggb.coqgnsoa,cebjbjhbecgnfg!”

“Qn,cScwoqrcgnfg,cS’vvcebjbjhbetcVqqwcfgcnsj,cnb’pcgebjhvsoa!c.qo’g
hbcuobfpx,cjxc.bfeckbvvqr,cnfybcsgcxquecqrocrfxtcRfvwcfhqugcfchsg,cxqu
rqo’gchbcfhvbcgqcrfvwcgqqckfetcSkcfoxgnsoacnfiibop,cScnfybcqobceblubpg
gqcjfwbcqkcxqu,”cnbcf..b.,c.eqiisoacnspcyqs btc“Sg’pcfocfrwrfe.cqob,chug
sjiqegfogtcSkcfoxgnsoacrbebcgqcnfiiboc(gnquancso.bb.cSc.qo’gchbvsbyb
socsgcfo.cgnsowcxquclusgbcso fifhvbcqkcsg),cxbgcsoc fpbcxqucrbebcgfwbo
.uesoacgnbpbckqegxcqeckskgxcnquepcrsgncgnbcoqgsqocqkciuggsoacfocbo.cgq
gnbchupsobppcsocpqjbcqgnbecrfx,csocpqjbckfogfpgs ckfpnsqo--vfxsoacnfo.p
qocxquepbvk--(sg’pcfocfhpue.cieqiqpsgsqo,chugcxqucjupgckqeasybcjbckqe
sg)c.qcvbfybcfchesbkchugcieb spbcoqgb,cqovxcgrqcvsobp,cfo.cjbogsqocgnb
pgqobtcSgcrsvvchbcjqebcabobequptc qjb,cgsvvcrbcjbbg!cAqq.cgnquangpcfo.
pquo.c.b spsqopcgqcxqu!”

Iqeksexcrbogcqug,cpgqqisoacfo.cfyqs.soacvqqwsoacfgcEfpwqvoswqytcGnb
vfggbecrbogcgqcgnbcrso.qrcfo.crfsgb.crsgncseesgfhvbcsjifgsbo bcgsvvcnb
 fv uvfgb.cgnfgcIqeksexcnf.cebf nb.cgnbcpgebbgcfo.cjqyb.cfrfxtcGnbocnb
gqqcrbogcnueesb.vxcqugcqkcgnbceqqjt



 NFIGBEcSSS

Nbcnueesb.cgqcPys.esafïvqy’ptcRnfgcnbcnf.cgqcnqibckeqjcgnfgcjfocnb
.s.coqgcwoqrtcHugcgnfgcjfocnf.cpqjbcns..bociqrbecqybecnsjtcNfysoacqo b
eb qaospb.cgnsp,cnbc quv.coqgcebpg,cfo.coqrcgnbcgsjbcnf.c qjbt

Qocgnbcrfx,cqobclubpgsqocifegs uvfevxcrqeesb.cnsj:cnf.cPys.esafïvqychbbo
gqcIqeksex’p?

Fpckfecfpcnbc quv.cmu.ab,cnbcrquv.cprbfecgqcsg,cgnfgcnbcnf.coqgtcNb
iqo.beb.cfafsocfo.cfafso,crbogcqybecIqeksex’pcyspsg;coq,cnbcnf.o’gchbbo,
qkc quepbcnbcnf.o’gt

Hugcskcnbcnf.coqgchbbocxbg,crquv.cnbcaq?cJbfornsvb,ckqecgnbciebpbogcnb
kfo sb.cnbc quv.o’gtcRnx?cNbc quv.coqgcnfybcbdivfsob.,chugcskcnbc quv.,
nbcrquv.coqgcnfybcrfpgb.cju ncgnquangcqybecsgcfgcgnbcjqjbogtcSgcfvv
rqeesb.cnsjcfo.cfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjbcnbc quv.coqgcfggbo.cgqcsgtcPgefoabcgq
pfx,coqobcrquv.cnfybchbvsbyb.csgcibenfip,chugcnbcqovxckbvgcfckfsogcyfaub
fodsbgxcfhqugcnspcsjjb.sfgbckuguebtcFoqgnbe,cju ncjqebcsjiqegfogcfodsbgx
gqejbogb.cnsj--sgc qo beob.cnsjpbvk,chugcsocfc.skkbebog,cjqebcysgfvcrfxt
Jqebqybe,cnbcrfpc qop squpcqkcsjjbopbcjqefvckfgsaub,cgnquancnspcjso.crfp
rqewsoachbggbecgnfgcjqeosoacgnfocsgcnf.c.qobcqkcvfgbt

Fo.crfpcsgcrqegncrnsvb,cfkgbecfvvcgnfgcnf.cnfiibob.,cgqc qogbo.crsgn
gnbpbcobrcgesysfvc.skks uvgsbp?cRfpcsgcrqegncrnsvb,ckqecsopgfo b,cgq
jfoqbuyebcgnfgcPys.esafïvqycpnquv.coqgcaqcgqcIqeksex’p?cRfpcsgcrqegn
rnsvbcgqcsoybpgsafgb,cgqcfp begfsocgnbckf gp,cgqcrfpgbcgsjbcqybecfoxqob
vswbcPys.esafïvqy?

Qn,cnqrcps wcnbcrfpcqkcsgcfvv!

Fo.cxbgcnbcrfpcnfpgbosoacgqcPys.esafïvqy;c quv.cnbchbcbdib gsoa
pqjbgnsoac_obr_ckeqjcnsj,csokqejfgsqo,cqecjbfopcqkcbp fib?cJbocrsvv
 fg ncfgcpgefrp!cRfpcsgc.bpgsoxcqecpqjbcsopgso gchesoasoacgnbjcgqabgnbe?
Ibenfipcsgcrfpcqovxckfgsaub,c.bpifse;cibenfipcsgcrfpcoqgcPys.esafïvqy
hugcpqjbcqgnbecrnqjcnbcobb.b.,cfo.cPys.esafïvqycnf.cpsjivxciebpbogb.
nsjpbvkchxc nfo btcPqosf?cHugcrnfgcpnquv.cnbcaqcgqcPqosfckqecoqr?cGqchba
nbecgbfepcfafso?cNbcrfpcfkefs.cqkcPqosf,cgqqtcPqosfcpgqq.chbkqebcnsjcfp
focseebyq fhvbcpbogbo btcNbcjupgcaqcnspcqrocrfxcqecnbeptcFgcgnfgcjqjbog
bpib sfvvxcnbc.s.coqgckbbvcblufvcgqcpbbsoacnbetcOq,crquv.csgcoqgchb
hbggbecgqcgexcPys.esafïvqy?cFo.cnbc quv.coqgcnbvicsorfe.vxcqrosoacgnfg
nbcnf.cvqoackbvgcgnfgcnbcjupgcpbbcnsjckqecpqjbcebfpqot

Hugcrnfgc quv.cgnbxcnfybcsoc qjjqo?cGnbsecybexcbysv-.qsoac quv.coqg
hbcqkcgnbcpfjbcwso.tcGnbcjfo,cjqebqybe,crfpcybexcuoivbfpfog,cbys.bogvx
.biefyb.,cuo.quhgb.vxc uoosoacfo.c.b bsgkuv,ciqppshvxcjfvsaofogtcPu n
pgqesbpcrbebcgqv.cfhqugcnsjtcSgcspcgeubcnbcrfpchbkesbo.soacWfgbesof
Syfoqyof’pc nsv.ebo,chugcrnqc quv.cgbvvcrsgncrnfgcjqgsybcfo.crnfgcsg
jbfog?cGnbcjfocfvrfxpcnf.cpqjbc.bpsao,cpqjbcieqmb gt

Gnbebcrfpcfoqgnbecgnquangcrns ncnf.chbboc qogsoufvvxcnqybesoacqkcvfgb
fhqugcEfpwqvoswqy’pcjso.,cfo.c fupsoacnsjcaebfgcuobfpsobpptcSgcrfpcpq
ifsokuvcgnfgcnbcjf.bc.spgso gcbkkqegpcgqcabgces.cqkcsgtcNbcpqjbgsjbp
gnquangcgnfgcPys.esafïvqycrfpc.qaasoacnspckqqgpgbiptcPys.esafïvqycnf.
kquo.cqugcnspcpb ebgcfo.cnf.cnf.c.bpsaopcqoc.quosftcRnfgcskcnbcnf.cgnbj
pgsvv?cRfpo’gcsgcief gs fvvxc begfsocgnfgcnbcnf.?cFo.crnfgcsk,cnfysoa
vbfeogcnspcpb ebgcfo.cpqcnfysoacafsob.ciqrbecqybecnsj,cnbcrbebcgqcupbcsg
fpcfcrbfiqocfafsopgc.quosf?

Gnspcs.bfcpqjbgsjbpcbybocgqejbogb.cnspc.ebfjp,chugcsgcnf.cobybe
iebpbogb.csgpbvkcpqcysys.vxcgqcnsjcfpcqocnspcrfxcgqcPys.esafïvqyt
Gnbcybexcgnquangcjqyb.cnsjcgqcavqqjxcefabtcGqchbasocrsgn,cgnspcrquv.
gefopkqejcbybexgnsoa,cbybocnspcqrociqpsgsqo;cnbcrquv.cnfybcfgcqo bcgq
 qokbppcnspcpb ebgcgqc.quosftcRquv.cnbcnfybcgqcasybcnsjpbvkcuicibenfip
gqciebybogc.quosfckeqjcgfwsoacpqjbcefpncpgbi?cGnbcvbggbe?cGnspcjqeosoa
.quosfcnf.ceb bsyb.cfcvbggbetcKeqjcrnqjc quv.cpnbcabgcvbggbepcso
Ibgbephuea?cVuznso,cibenfip?cSg’pcgeubcEfzujsnsocrfpcgnbebcgqcieqgb g
nbe,chugcEfzujsnsocwobrcoqgnsoacqkcgnbciqpsgsqotcIbenfipcsgcrfpcnspc.ugx
gqcgbvvcEfzujsnso?cNbcgnquangcqkcsgcrsgncebiuaofo bt

Socfoxc fpbcnbcjupgcpbbcPys.esafïvqycfpcpqqocfpciqppshvb,cnbc.b s.b.
ksofvvxtcGnfowcAq.,cgnbc.bgfsvpcqkcgnbcsogbeysbrcrbebcqkcvsggvb
 qopblubo b,cskcqovxcnbc quv.cabgcfgcgnbceqqgcqkcgnbcjfggbe;chug
skcPys.esafïvqycrbebc fifhvbtttcskcnbcrbebcsogesausoacfafsopg
.quosf--gnbottt

Efpwqvoswqycrfpcpqcbdnfupgb.chxcrnfgcnbcnf.cifppb.cgnequancgnfgcjqogn
gnfgcnbc quv.cqovxc.b s.bcpu nclubpgsqopcsocqobcrfx;c“gnbocScpnfvvcwsvv
nsj,”cnbcgnquangcsoc qv.c.bpifset

Fcpu..bocfoauspncqiiebppb.cnspcnbfeg,cnbcpgqq.cpgsvvcsocgnbcjs..vbcqk
gnbcpgebbgcfo.chbafocvqqwsoacfhqugcgqcpbbcrnbebcnbcrfpcfo.crns ncrfxcnb
rfpcaqsoatcNbckquo.cnsjpbvkcsocDtcIeqpib g,cgnsegxcqeckqegxcif bpckeqj
gnbcNfxcJfewbg,cgnequancrns ncnbcnf.c qjbtcGnbcrnqvbcpb qo.cpgqebxcqk
gnbcnqupbcqocgnbcvbkgcrfpcupb.cfpcfcgfybeotcFvvcgnbcrso.qrpcrbebcrs.b
qibo;cmu.asoackeqjcgnbcksauebpcjqysoacfgcgnbcrso.qrp,cgnbceqqjpcrbeb
kuvvcgqcqybekvqrsoatcGnbebcrbebcpquo.pcqkcpsoasoa,cqkc vfesqobgcfo.
ysqvso,cfo.cgnbchqqjcqkcfcGuewspnc.eujtcNbc quv.cnbfecrqjbocpnesbwsoat
Nbcrfpcfhqugcgqcgueochf wcrqo.besoacrnxcnbcnf.c qjbcgqcgnbcDtcIeqpib g,
rnbocpu..bovxcfgcqobcqkcgnbcbo.crso.qrpcnbcpfrcPys.esafïvqy,cpsggsoa
fgcfcgbf-gfhvbcesangcsocgnbcqibocrso.qrcrsgncfcisibcsocnspcjqugnt
Efpwqvoswqycrfpc.ebf.kuvvxcgfwbocfhf w,cfvjqpgcgbeesksb.tcPys.esafïvqy
rfpcpsvbogvxcrfg nsoacfo.cp eugsospsoacnsjcfo.,crnfgcpgeu wcEfpwqvoswqy
fgcqo b,cpbbjb.cgqchbcjbfosoacgqcabgcuicfo.cpvsicfrfxcuoqhpbeyb.t
Efpwqvoswqycfgcqo bciebgbo.b.coqgcgqcnfybcpbbocnsj,chugcgqchbcvqqwsoa
fhpbog-jso.b.vxcfrfx,crnsvbcnbcrfg nb.cnsjcqugcqkcgnbc qeobecqkcnspcbxbt
NspcnbfegcrfpchbfgsoacysqvbogvxtcXbg,csgcrfpcbys.bogcgnfgcPys.esafïvqy
.s.coqgcrfogcgqchbcpbbotcNbcgqqwcgnbcisibcqugcqkcnspcjqugncfo.crfpcqo
gnbciqsogcqkc qo bfvsoacnsjpbvk,chugcfpcnbcaqgcuicfo.cjqyb.chf wcnsp
 nfse,cnbcpbbjb.cgqcnfybchb qjbcpu..bovxcfrfebcgnfgcEfpwqvoswqycnf.cpbbo
nsj,cfo.crfpcrfg nsoacnsjtcRnfgcnf.cifppb.chbgrbbocgnbjcrfpcju ncgnb
pfjbcfpcrnfgcnfiibob.cfgcgnbsecksepgcjbbgsoacsocEfpwqvoswqy’pceqqjtcF
pvxcpjsvbc fjbcsogqcPys.esafïvqy’pckf bcfo.caebrcheqf.becfo.
heqf.betcBf ncwobrcgnfgcnbcrfpcpbbocfo.crfg nb.chxcgnbcqgnbetcFgcvfpg
Pys.esafïvqycheqwbcsogqcfcvqu.cvfuant

“Rbvv,crbvv,c qjbcsocskcxqucrfogcjb;cScfjcnbeb!”cnbcpnqugb.ckeqjcgnb
rso.qrt

EfpwqvoswqycrbogcuicsogqcgnbcgfybeotcNbckquo.cPys.esafïvqycsocfcgsox
hf wceqqj,cf.mqsosoacgnbcpfvqqocsocrns ncjbe nfogp,c vbewpcfo.coujhbep
qkcibqivbcqkcfvvcpqegpcrbebc.esowsoacgbfcfgcgrbogxcvsggvbcgfhvbpcgqcgnb
.bpibefgbchfrvsoacqkcfc nqeupcqkcpsoabeptcGnbc vs wcqkchsvvsfe.chfvvp
 quv.chbcnbfe.csocgnbc.spgfo btcQocgnbcgfhvbchbkqebcPys.esafïvqycpgqq.
focqibochqggvbcfo.cfcavfppcnfvkckuvvcqkc nfjifaobtcSocgnbceqqjcnbckquo.
fvpqcfchqxcrsgncfcvsggvbcnfo.cqeafo,cfcnbfvgnx-vqqwsoaceb.- nbbwb.casev
qkcbsangbbo,crbfesoacfcgu wb.-uicpgesib.cpwseg,cfo.cfcGxeqvbpbcnfgcrsgn
eshhqoptcSocpisgbcqkcgnbc nqeupcsocgnbcqgnbeceqqj,cpnbcrfpcpsoasoacpqjb
pbeyfogp’cnfvvcpqoacsocfcefgnbecnupwxc qogefvgq,cgqcgnbcf  qjifosjbogcqk
gnbcqeafot

“ qjb,cgnfg’pcboquan,”cPys.esafïvqycpgqiib.cnbecfgcEfpwqvoswqy’p
bogefo btcGnbcasevcfgcqo bcheqwbcqkkcfo.cpgqq.crfsgsoacebpib gkuvvxt
Pnbcnf.cpuoacnbecaugguefvcenxjbp,cgqq,crsgncfcpbesqupcfo.cebpib gkuv
bdiebppsqocsocnbeckf bt

“Nbx,cInsvsi,cfcavfpp!”cpnqugb.cPys.esafïvqyt

“Scrqo’gc.esowcfoxgnsoa,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“Fpcxqucvswb,cSc.s.o’gcjbfocsgckqecxqutc.esow,cWfgsf!cSc.qo’gcrfog
foxgnsoacjqebcgq-.fx,cxquc focaqt”cNbciqueb.cnbecqugcfckuvvcavfpp,cfo.
vfs.c.qrocfcxbvvqrcoqgbt

Wfgsfc.efowcqkkcnbecavfppcqkcrsob,cfpcrqjboc.q,crsgnqugciuggsoacsgc.qro,
socgrbogxcauvip,cgqqwcgnbcoqgbcfo.cwsppb.cPys.esafïvqy’pcnfo.,crns ncnb
fvvqrb.clusgbcpbesqupvxtcPnbcrbogcqugcqkcgnbceqqjcfo.cgnbchqxcgefsvb.
fkgbecnbecrsgncgnbcqeafotcHqgncnf.chbbochequangcsockeqjcgnbcpgebbgt
Pys.esafïvqycnf.coqgchbbocfcrbbwcsocIbgbephuea,chugcbybexgnsoacfhqugcnsj
rfpcfvebf.x,cpqcgqcpibfw,cqocfcifgesfe nfvckqqgsoa;cgnbcrfsgbe,cInsvsi,
rfpchxcoqrcfocqv.ckesbo.cfo.cybexcqhpblusqupt

Gnbc.qqecvbf.soacgqcgnbcpfvqqocnf.cfcvq wcqocsgtcPys.esafïvqycrfpcfg
nqjbcsocgnspceqqjcfo.cibenfipcpibogcrnqvbc.fxpcsocsgtcGnbcgfybeocrfp
.segxcfo.crebg nb.,coqgcbybocpb qo.-efgbt

“Scrfpcaqsoacgqcpbbcxqucfo.cvqqwsoackqecxqu,”cEfpwqvoswqychbafo,c“hug
Sc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcjf.bcjbcgueockeqjcgnbcNfxcJfewbgcsogqcgnbcDtcIeqpib g
mupgcoqrtcScobybecgfwbcgnspcgueosoatcScgueocgqcgnbcesangckeqjcgnbcNfx
JfewbgtcFo.cgnspcspo’gcgnbcrfxcgqcxqutcScpsjivxcgueob.cfo.cnbebcxqucfebt
Sgcspcpgefoab!”

“Rnxc.qo’gcxqucpfxcfgcqo bc‘sg’pcfcjsef vb’?”

“Hb fupbcsgcjfxchbcqovxc nfo bt”

“Qn,cgnfg’pcgnbcrfxcrsgncfvvcxquckqvw,”cvfuanb.cPys.esafïvqytc“Xqucrqo’g
f.jsgcsg,cbybocskcxquc.qcsorfe.vxchbvsbybcsgcfcjsef vb!cNbebcxqucpfx
gnfgcsgcjfxchbcqovxc nfo btcFo.crnfgc qrfe.pcgnbxcfvvcfebcnbeb,cfhqug
nfysoacfocqisosqocqkcgnbsecqro,cxquc fo’gckfo x,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg ntcS
.qo’gcjbfocxqu,cxqucnfybcfocqisosqocqkcxquecqrocfo.cfebcoqgcfkefs.cgq
nfybcsgtcGnfg’pcnqrcsgcrfpcxqucfggef gb.cjxc uesqpsgxt”

“Oqgnsoacbvpb?”

“Rbvv,cgnfg’pcboquan,cxqucwoqr,”cPys.esafïvqycrfpcqhysqupvxcbdnsvfefgb.,
hugcqovxcpvsangvxcpq,cnbcnf.coqgcnf.cjqebcgnfocnfvkcfcavfppcqkcrsobt

“Sckfo xcxquc fjbcgqcpbbcjbchbkqebcxqucwobrcgnfgcScrfpc fifhvbcqkcnfysoa
rnfgcxquc fvvcfocqisosqocqkcjxcqro,”cqhpbeyb.cEfpwqvoswqyt

“Qn,crbvv,csgcrfpcfc.skkbebogcjfggbetcBybexqobcnfpcnspcqrocivfoptcFo.
fieqiqpcqkcgnbcjsef vbcvbgcjbcgbvvcxqucgnfgcScgnsowcxqucnfybchbbocfpvbbi
kqecgnbcvfpgcgrqcqecgnebbc.fxptcScgqv.cxqucqkcgnspcgfybeocjxpbvk,cgnbeb
spcoqcjsef vbcsocxquec qjsoacpgefsangcnbebtcScbdivfsob.cgnbcrfxcjxpbvk,
gqv.cxqucrnbebcsgcrfp,cfo.cgnbcnquepcxquc quv.ckso.cjbcnbebtc.qcxqu
ebjbjhbe?”

“Sc.qo’gcebjbjhbe,”cfoprbeb.cEfpwqvoswqycrsgncpueiespbt

“SchbvsbybcxqutcScgqv.cxqucgrs btcGnbcf..ebppcnfpchbbocpgfjib.
jb nfos fvvxcqocxquecjbjqextcXqucgueob.cgnspcrfxcjb nfos fvvxcfo.cxbg
ieb spbvxcf  qe.soacgqcgnbc.seb gsqo,cgnquancxqucfebcoqgcfrfebcqk
sgtcRnbocScgqv.cxqucgnbo,cScnfe.vxcnqib.cxqucuo.bepgqq.cjbtcXqucasyb
xquepbvkcfrfxcgqqcju n,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg ntcFo.cfoqgnbecgnsoa,cS’j
 qoyso b.cgnbebcfebcvqgpcqkcibqivbcsocIbgbephueacrnqcgfvwcgqcgnbjpbvybp
fpcgnbxcrfvwtcGnspcspcfcgqrocqkc efzxcibqivbtcSkcqovxcrbcnf.cp sbogsks 
jbo,c.q gqep,cvfrxbepcfo.cinsvqpqinbepcjsangcjfwbcjqpgcyfvufhvb
soybpgsafgsqopcsocIbgbephueacbf ncsocnspcqrocvsobtcGnbebcfebckbrcivf bp
rnbebcgnbebcfebcpqcjfoxcavqqjx,cpgeqoacfo.clubbecsokvubo bpcqocgnbcpquv
qkcjfocfpcsocIbgbephueatcGnbcjbebcsokvubo bpcqkc vsjfgbcjbfocpqcju nt
Fo.csg’pcgnbcf.jsospgefgsybc bogebcqkcfvvcEuppsfcfo.csgpc nfef gbecjupg
hbcebkvb gb.cqocgnbcrnqvbc quogextcHugcgnfgcspcobsgnbecnbebcoqecgnbeb
oqrtcGnbciqsogcspcgnfgcScnfybcpbybefvcgsjbpcrfg nb.cxqutcXqucrfvwcqug
qkcxquecnqupb--nqv.soacxquecnbf.cnsan--grbogxcif bpckeqjcnqjbcxqucvbgcsg
psow,cfo.ckqv.cxquecnfo.pchbnso.cxquechf wtcXqucvqqwcfo.cbys.bogvxcpbb
oqgnsoachbkqebcoqechbps.bcxqutcFgcvfpgcxquchbasocjqysoacxquecvsipcfo.
gfvwsoacgqcxquepbvk,cfo.cpqjbgsjbpcxqucrfybcqobcnfo.cfo.c.b vfsj,cfo.cfg
vfpgcpgfo.cpgsvvcsocgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbceqf.tcGnfg’pcoqgcfgcfvvcgnbcgnsoat
Pqjbqobcjfxchbcrfg nsoacxquchbps.bpcjb,cfo.csgcrqo’gc.qcxqucfoxcaqq.t
Sg’pcoqgnsoacebfvvxcgqc.qcrsgncjbcfo.cSc fo’gc uebcxqu,chug,cqkc quepb,
xqucuo.bepgfo.cjbt”

“.qcxqucwoqrcgnfgcScfjchbsoackqvvqrb.?”cfpwb.cEfpwqvoswqy,cvqqwsoa
soluspsgsybvxcfgcnsjt

“Oq,cScwoqrcoqgnsoacfhqugcsg,”cpfs.cPys.esafïvqy,cpbbjsoacpueiespb.t

“Rbvv,cgnbo,cvbgcupcvbfybcjbcfvqob,”cEfpwqvoswqycjuggbeb.,ckeqrosoat

“Ybexcaqq.,cvbgcupcvbfybcxqucfvqobt”

“Xqucnf.chbggbecgbvvcjb,cskcxquc qjbcnbebcgqc.esow,cfo.c.seb gb.cjb
grs bcgqc qjbcnbebcgqcxqu,crnxc.s.cxqucns.b,cfo.cgexcgqcabgcfrfxcmupg
oqrcrnbocScvqqwb.cfgcgnbcrso.qrckeqjcgnbcpgebbg?cScpfrcsgt”

“Nb-nb!cFo.crnxcrfpcsgcxqucvfxcqocxquecpqkfcrsgnc vqpb.cbxbpcfo.
iebgbo.b.cgqchbcfpvbbi,cgnquancxqucrbebcrs.bcfrfwbcrnsvbcScpgqq.csocxque
.qqerfx?cScpfrcsgt”

“Scjfxcnfybcnf.tttcebfpqoptcXqucwoqrcgnfgcxquepbvkt”

“Fo.cScjfxcnfybcnf.cjxcebfpqop,cgnquancxquc.qo’gcwoqrcgnbjt”

Efpwqvoswqyc.eqiib.cnspcesangcbvhqrcqocgnbcgfhvb,cvbfob.cnspc nsocsocgnb
ksoabepcqkcnspcesangcnfo.,cfo.cpgfeb.csogbogvxcfgcPys.esafïvqytcKqecf
kuvvcjsougbcnbcp eugsospb.cnspckf b,crns ncnf.csjiebppb.cnsjchbkqebtcSg
rfpcfcpgefoabckf b,cvswbcfcjfpw;crnsgbcfo.ceb.,crsgnchesangceb.cvsip,
rsgncfckvfdbochbfe.,cfo.cpgsvvcgns wckvfdbocnfsetcNspcbxbpcrbebcpqjbnqr
gqqchvubcfo.cgnbsecbdiebppsqocpqjbnqrcgqqcnbfyxcfo.cksdb.tcGnbebcrfp
pqjbgnsoacfrkuvvxcuoivbfpfogcsocgnfgcnfo.pqjbckf b,crns ncvqqwb.cpq
rqo.bekuvvxcxquoackqecnspcfabtcPys.esafïvqycrfpcpjfegvxc.ebppb.csocvsang
pujjbec vqgnbpcfo.crfpcifegs uvfevxc.fsogxcsocnspcvsobotcNbcrqebcfcnuab
esoacrsgncfcieb squpcpgqobcsocsgt

“NfybcScaqgcgqchqgnbecjxpbvkcfhqugcxqu,cgqq,coqr?”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy
pu..bovx,c qjsoacrsgncobeyqupcsjifgsbo bcpgefsangcgqcgnbciqsogtc“Bybo
gnquancibenfipcxqucfebcgnbcjqpgc.foabequpcjfocskcxquc febcgqcsomuebcjb,
Sc.qo’gcrfogcgqciugcjxpbvkcqugcfoxcjqebtcScrsvvcpnqrcxqucfgcqo bcgnfgcS
.qo’gcieszbcjxpbvkcfpcxqucieqhfhvxcgnsowcSc.qtcS’ybc qjbcgqcgbvvcxqucfg
qo bcgnfgcskcxqucwbbicgqcxqueckqejbecsogbogsqopcrsgncebafe.cgqcjxcpspgbe
fo.cskcxqucgnsowcgqc.besybcfoxchbobksgcsocgnfgc.seb gsqockeqjcrnfgcnfp
hbboc.sp qybeb.cqkcvfgb,cScrsvvcwsvvcxquchbkqebcxqucabgcjbcvq wb.cuit
Xquc foceb wqocqocjxcrqe.tcXqucwoqrcgnfgcSc focwbbicsgtcFo.csocgnb
pb qo.civf bcskcxqucrfogcgqcgbvvcjbcfoxgnsoa--kqecScwbbickfo xsoacfvv
gnspcgsjbcgnfgcxqucnfybcpqjbgnsoacgqcgbvvcjb--jfwbcnfpgbcfo.cgbvvcsg,
kqecgsjbcspcieb squpcfo.cybexcvswbvxcsgcrsvvcpqqochbcgqqcvfgbt”

“Rnxcsocpu ncnfpgb?”cfpwb.cPys.esafïvqy,cvqqwsoacfgcnsjc uesqupvxt

“Bybexqobcnfpcnspcivfop,”cEfpwqvoswqycfoprbeb.cavqqjsvxcfo.csjifgsbogvxt

“Xqucueab.cjbcxquepbvkcgqckefowobppcmupgcoqr,cfo.cfgcgnbcksepgclubpgsqo
xqucebkupbcgqcfoprbe,”cPys.esafïvqycqhpbeyb.crsgncfcpjsvbtc“Xqu
wbbickfo xsoacgnfgcScnfybcfsjpcqkcjxcqrocfo.cpqcxqucvqqwcfgcjbcrsgn
pupis sqotcQkc quepbcsg’pcibekb gvxcofguefvcsocxqueciqpsgsqotcHug
gnquancScpnquv.cvswbcgqchbckesbo.pcrsgncxqu,cScpnfo’gcgequhvbcjxpbvk
gqc qoyso bcxqucqkcgnbc qogefextcGnbcafjbcspo’gcrqegncgnbc fo.vbcfo.cS
rfpo’gcsogbo.soacgqcgfvwcgqcxqucfhqugcfoxgnsoacpib sfvt”

“Rnfgc.s.cxqucrfogcjb,ckqe,cgnbo?cSgcrfpcxqucrnqc fjbcnfoasoacfhqugcjbt”

“Rnx,cpsjivxcfpcfocsogbebpgsoacpuhmb gckqecqhpbeyfgsqotcScvswb.cgnb
kfogfpgs cofguebcqkcxqueciqpsgsqo--gnfg’pcrnfgcsgcrfp!cHbps.bpcxqucfeb
gnbcheqgnbecqkcfcibepqocrnqcaebfgvxcsogbebpgb.cjb,cfo.ckeqjcgnfgcibepqo
Scnf.csocgnbcifpgcnbfe.cfcybexcaebfgc.bfvcfhqugcxqu,ckeqjcrns ncS
afgnbeb.cgnfgcxqucnf.cfcaebfgcsokvubo bcqybecnbe;cspo’gcgnfgcboquan?
Nf-nf-nf!cPgsvvcScjupgcf.jsgcgnfgcxqueclubpgsqocspcefgnbec qjivbd,cfo.
spc.skks uvgckqecjbcgqcfoprbetcNbeb,cxqu,ckqecsopgfo b,cnfybc qjbcgqcjb
oqgcqovxckqecfc.bksosgbcqhmb g,chugckqecgnbcpfwbcqkcnbfesoacpqjbgnsoa
obrtcSpo’gcgnfgcpq?cSpo’gcgnfgcpq?”cibepspgb.cPys.esafïvqycrsgncfcpvx
pjsvbtc“Rbvv,c fo’gcxquckfo xcgnbocgnfgcS,cgqq,cqocjxcrfxcnbebcsocgnb
gefsocrfpceb wqosoacqocxqu,cqocxquecgbvvsoacjbcpqjbgnsoacobr,cfo.cqocjx
jfwsoacpqjbcieqksgcqugcqkcxqu!cXqucpbbcrnfgces ncjbocrbcfeb!”

“Rnfgcieqksgc quv.cxqucjfwb?”

“Nqrc focScgbvvcxqu?cNqrc.qcScwoqr?cXqucpbbcsocrnfgcfcgfybeocScpibo.cfvv
jxcgsjbcfo.csg’pcjxcbomqxjbog,cgnfg’pcgqcpfxcsg’pcoqcaebfgcbomqxjbog,
hugcqobcjupgcpsgcpqjbrnbeb;cgnfgciqqecWfgsfcoqr--xqucpfrcnbe?tttcSkcqovx
Scnf.chbbocfcavuggqocoqr,cfc vuhcaquejfo.,chugcxqucpbbcSc focbfgcgnspt”

Nbciqsogb.cgqcfcvsggvbcgfhvbcsocgnbc qeobecrnbebcgnbcebjofogpcqkcf
gbeeshvb-vqqwsoachbbk-pgbfwcfo.ciqgfgqbpcvfxcqocfcgsoc.spnt

“Nfybcxquc.sob.,chxcgnbcrfx?cS’ybcnf.cpqjbgnsoacfo.crfogcoqgnsoacjqebt
Sc.qo’gc.esow,ckqecsopgfo b,cfgcfvvtcBd bigckqec nfjifaobcScobybecgqu n
foxgnsoa,cfo.coqgcjqebcgnfocfcavfppcqkcgnfgcfvvcgnbcbybosoa,cfo.cbybo
gnfgcspcboquancgqcjfwbcjxcnbf.cf nbtcScqe.beb.csgcmupgcoqrcgqcrso.
jxpbvkcui,ckqecScfjcmupgcaqsoacqkkcpqjbrnbebcfo.cxqucpbbcjbcsocf
ib uvsfecpgfgbcqkcjso.tcGnfgcrfpcrnxcScns.cjxpbvkcmupgcoqrcvswbcf
p nqqvhqx,ckqecScrfpcfkefs.cxqucrquv.cnso.becjbtcHugcSchbvsbyb,”cnb
iuvvb.cqugcnspcrfg n,c“Sc focpibo.cfocnquecrsgncxqutcSg’pcnfvk-ifpg
kquecoqrtcSkcqovxcS’.chbbocpqjbgnsoa,cfcvfo.qrobe,cfckfgnbe,cfc fyfvex
qkks be,cfcinqgqaefinbe,cfcmqueofvspgtttcScfjcoqgnsoa,coqcpib sfvgx,
fo.cpqjbgsjbpcScfjciqpsgsybvxchqeb.tcScebfvvxcgnquangcxqucrquv.cgbvvcjb
pqjbgnsoacobrt”

“Hugcrnfgcfebcxqu,cfo.crnxcnfybcxquc qjbcnbeb?”

“RnfgcfjcS?cXqucwoqr,cfcabogvbjfo,cScpbeyb.ckqecgrqcxbfepcsocgnb
 fyfvex,cgnbocScwoq wb.cfhqugcnbebcsocIbgbephuea,cgnbocScjfeesb.cJfekf
Ibgeqyofcfo.cvsyb.csocgnbc quogextcGnbebcxqucnfybcjxchsqaefinx!”

“Xqucfebcfcafjhvbe,cSchbvsbyb?”

“Oq,cfciqqecpqegcqkcafjhvbetcFc fe.-pnfeibe--oqgcfcafjhvbet”

“Xqucnfybchbbocfc fe.-pnfeibecgnbo?”

“Xbp,cS’ybchbbocfc fe.-pnfeibecgqqt”

“.s.o’gcxqucabgcgnefpnb.cpqjbgsjbp?”

“Sgc.s.cnfiibotcRnx?”

“Rnx,cxqucjsangcnfybc nfvvboab.cgnbjtttcfvgqabgnbecsgcjupgcnfybchbbo
vsybvxt”

“Scrqo’gc qogef.s gcxqu,cfo.chbps.bpcScfjcoqcnfo.cfgcinsvqpqinxtcS
 qokbppcgnfgcScnfpgbob.cnbebckqecgnbcpfwbcqkcgnbcrqjbot”

“Fpcpqqocfpcxquchuesb.cJfekfcIbgeqyof?”

“Lusgbcpq,”cPys.esafïvqycpjsvb.crsgncboafasoac fo.quetc“Rnfgcqkcsg?cXqu
pbbjcgqckso.cpqjbgnsoacreqoacsocjxcpibfwsoacvswbcgnfgcfhqugcrqjbo?”

“XqucfpwcrnbgnbecSckso.cfoxgnsoacreqoacsocys b?”

“Ys b!cQn,cgnfg’pcrnfgcxqucfebcfkgbe!cHugcS’vvcfoprbecxqucsocqe.be,
ksepgcfhqugcrqjbocsocabobefv;cxqucwoqrcScfjckqo.cqkcgfvwsoatcGbvvcjb,
rnfgcpnquv.cScebpgefsocjxpbvkckqe?cRnxcpnquv.cScasybcuicrqjbo,cpso bcS
nfybcfcifppsqockqecgnbj?cSg’pcfocq  uifgsqo,cfoxrfxt”

“Pqcxqucnqibckqecoqgnsoacnbebchugcys b?”

“Qn,cybexcrbvv,ckqecys bcgnbotcXqucsopspgcqocsgpchbsoacys btcHugcfoxrfx
Scvswbcfc.seb gclubpgsqotcSocgnspcys bcfgcvbfpgcgnbebcspcpqjbgnsoa
ibejfobog,ckquo.b.cso.bb.cuiqocofguebcfo.coqgc.bibo.bogcqockfogfpx,
pqjbgnsoaciebpbogcsocgnbchvqq.cvswbcfocbybe-hueosoacbjhbe,ckqecbybe
pbggsoacqobcqocksebcfo.,cjfxhb,coqgcgqchbclus wvxcbdgsoauspnb.,cbybo
rsgncxbfeptcXqu’vvcfaebbcsg’pcfocq  uifgsqocqkcfcpqegt”

“Gnfg’pcoqgnsoacgqcebmqs bcfg,csg’pcfc.spbfpbcfo.cfc.foabequpcqobt”

“Qn,cgnfg’pcrnfgcxqucgnsow,cspcsg!cScfaebb,cgnfgcsgcspcfc.spbfpbcvswb
bybexgnsoacgnfgcbd bb.pcjq.befgsqotcFo.,cqkc quepb,csocgnspcqobcjupg
bd bb.cjq.befgsqotcHugcsocgnbcksepgcivf b,cbybexhq.xc.qbpcpqcsocqobcrfx
qecfoqgnbe,cfo.csocgnbcpb qo.civf b,cqkc quepb,cqobcquangcgqchbcjq.befgb
fo.cieu.bog,cnqrbybecjbfocsgcjfxchb,chugcrnfgcfjcScgqc.q?cSkcScnf.o’g
gnsp,cScjsangcnfybcgqcpnqqgcjxpbvktcScfjcebf.xcgqcf.jsgcgnfgcfc.b bog
jfocquangcgqciugcuicrsgnchbsoachqeb.,chugcxbgttt”

“Fo.c quv.cxqucpnqqgcxquepbvk?”

“Qn,c qjb!”cPys.esafïvqycifeesb.crsgnc.spaupgtc“Ivbfpbc.qo’gcpibfwcqk
sg,”cnbcf..b.cnueesb.vxcfo.crsgncoqobcqkcgnbchefaasoacgqobcnbcnf.cpnqro
socfvvcgnbciebysqupc qoybepfgsqotcNspckf bclusgbc nfoab.tc“Scf.jsgcsg’p
focuoife.qofhvbcrbfwobpp,chugcSc fo’gcnbvicsgtcScfjcfkefs.cqkc.bfgncfo.
Sc.spvswbcsgpchbsoacgfvwb.cqktc.qcxqucwoqrcgnfgcScfjcgqcfc begfsocbdgbog
fcjxpgs ?”

“Fn,cgnbcfiifesgsqopcqkcJfekfcIbgeqyof!c.qcgnbxcpgsvvcaqcqocyspsgsoa
xqu?”

“Qn,c.qo’gcgfvwcqkcgnbj;cgnbebcnfybchbbocoqcjqebcsocIbgbephuea,c qokquo.
gnbj!”cnbc esb.crsgncfocfsecqkcseesgfgsqotc“Vbg’pcefgnbecgfvwcqkcgnfgttt
gnquantttcN’j!cScnfybcoqgcju ncgsjb,cfo.c fo’gcpgfxcvqoacrsgncxqu,
sg’pcfcisgx!cScpnquv.cnfybckquo.civbogxcgqcgbvvcxqut”

“Rnfg’pcxquecboafabjbog,cfcrqjfo?”

“Xbp,cfcrqjfo,cfc fpufvcso s.bogttttcOq,cgnfg’pcoqgcrnfgcScrfogcgqcgfvw
qkt”

“Fo.cgnbcns.bqupobpp,cgnbcksvgnsobppcqkcfvvcxquecpueequo.soap,c.qbpo’g
gnfgcfkkb gcxqu?cNfybcxqucvqpgcgnbcpgeboagncgqcpgqicxquepbvk?”

“Fo.c.qcxquciebgbo.cgqcpgeboagn,cgqq?cNb-nb-nb!cXqucpueiespb.cjbcmupg
oqr,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cgnquancScwobrchbkqebnfo.csgcrquv.chbcpqt
Xquciebf ncgqcjbcfhqugcys bcfo.cæpgnbgs p!cXqu--fcP nsvvbe,cxqu--fo
s.bfvspg!cQkc quepbcgnfg’pcfvvcfpcsgcpnquv.chbcfo.csgcrquv.chb
pueiespsoacskcsgcrbebcoqgcpq,cxbgcsgcspcpgefoabcsocebfvsgxttttcFn,
rnfgcfcisgxcScnfybcoqcgsjb,ckqecxqu’ebcfcjqpgcsogbebpgsoacgxib!cFo.,
hx-gnb-rfx,cfebcxquckqo.cqkcP nsvvbe?cScfjcfrkuvvxckqo.cqkcnsjt”

“Hugcrnfgcfchefaafegcxqucfeb,”cEfpwqvoswqycpfs.crsgncpqjbc.spaupgt

“Uiqocjxcrqe.,cScfjcoqg,”cfoprbeb.cPys.esafïvqycvfuansoatc“Nqrbybe,cS
rqo’gc.spiugbcsg,cvbgcjbchbcfchefaafeg,crnxcoqgchefa,cskcsgcnuegpcoq
qob?cScpibogcpbybocxbfepcsocgnbc quogexcrsgncJfekfcIbgeqyof,cpqcoqrcrnbo
Sc qjbcf eqppcfocsogbvvsabogcibepqocvswbcxqu--sogbvvsabogcfo.cnsanvx
sogbebpgsoa--Scfjcpsjivxcavf.cgqcgfvwcfo.,chbps.bp,cS’ybc.euowcgnfg
nfvk-avfppcqkc nfjifaobcfo.csg’pcaqobcgqcjxcnbf.cfcvsggvbtcFo.chbps.bp,
gnbeb’pcfc begfsockf gcgnfgcnfpcrquo.cjbcuicgebjbo.qupvx,chugcfhqugcgnfg
StttcrsvvcwbbiclusbgtcRnbebcfebcxqucqkkcgq?”cnbcfpwb.csocfvfejt

Efpwqvoswqycnf.chbauocabggsoacuitcNbckbvgcqiiebppb.cfo.cpgskvb.cfo.,
fpcsgcrbeb,csvvcfgcbfpbcfgcnfysoac qjbcnbebtcNbckbvgc qoyso b.cgnfg
Pys.esafïvqycrfpcgnbcjqpgcrqegnvbppcp quo.ebvcqocgnbckf bcqkcgnbcbfegnt

“F-f n!cPsgc.qro,cpgfxcfcvsggvb!”cPys.esafïvqychbaab.tc“Vbgcgnbjchesoa
xqucpqjbcgbf,cfoxrfxtcPgfxcfcvsggvb,cScrqo’gcgfvwcoqopbopb,cfhqug
jxpbvk,cScjbfotcS’vvcgbvvcxqucpqjbgnsoatcSkcxqucvswbcS’vvcgbvvcxqucnqrcf
rqjfocgesb.c‘gqcpfyb’cjb,cfpcxqucrquv.c fvvcsg?cSgcrsvvchbcfocfoprbecgq
xquecksepgclubpgsqocso.bb.,ckqecgnbcrqjfocrfpcxquecpspgbetcJfxcScgbvv
xqu?cSgcrsvvcnbvicgqcpibo.cgnbcgsjbt”

“Gbvvcjb,chugcScgeupgcgnfgcxquttt”

“Qn,c.qo’gchbcuobfpxtcHbps.bp,cbybocsocfcrqegnvbppcvqrckbvvqrcvswbcjb,
Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofc focqovxcbd sgbcgnbc.bbibpgcebpib gt”



 NFIGBEcSY

“Xqucwoqrcibenfip--xbp,cScgqv.cxqucjxpbvk,”chbafocPys.esafïvqy,c“gnfg
Scrfpcsocgnbc.bhgqep’ciespqocnbeb,ckqecfocsjjbopbcpuj,cfo.cnf.coqg
foxcbdib gfgsqocqkchbsoacfhvbcgqcifxcsgtcGnbeb’pcoqcobb.cgqcaqcsogq
ifegs uvfepcnqrcJfekfcIbgeqyofchquangcjbcqug;c.qcxqucwoqrcgqcrnfgcf
iqsogcqkcsopfosgxcfcrqjfoc focpqjbgsjbpcvqyb?cPnbcrfpcfocnqobpgcrqjfo,
fo.cybexcpbopshvb,cfvgnquanc qjivbgbvxcuob.u fgb.tcRquv.cxquchbvsbyb
gnfgcgnspcnqobpgcfo.cmbfvqupcrqjfo,cfkgbecjfoxcp bobpcqkcnxpgbes pcfo.
ebieqf nbp,c qo.bp bo.b.cgqcbogbecsogqcfcwso.cqkc qogef gcrsgncjbcrns n
pnbcwbigcgnequanqugcquecjfeesb.cvskb?cPnbcrfpc qops.befhvxcqv.becgnfo
S,cfo.chbps.bp,cpnbcfvrfxpcwbigcfc vqybcqecpqjbgnsoacsocnbecjqugntcGnbeb
rfpcpqcju ncprsospnobppcsocjxcpquvcfo.cnqobpgxcgqq,cqkcfcpqeg,cfpcgq
gbvvcnbecpgefsangcqugcgnfgcSc quv.o’gchbcfhpqvugbvxckfsgnkuvcgqcnbet
Gnspc qokbppsqoc.eqybcnbecgqckebozx,chugcxbgcpnbcpbbjpcsocfcrfxcgqcnfyb
vswb.cjxcheugfvckefowobpptcPnbcgnquangcsgcpnqrb.cScrfpcuorsvvsoacgq
.b bsybcnbecskcScrfeob.cnbecvswbcgnspchbkqebnfo.cfo.ckqecfcmbfvqup
rqjfo,cxqucwoqr,cgnfg’pcgnbcksepgc qops.befgsqotcFkgbecjfoxcgbfepcfo
uoresggboc qogef gcrfpc.efrocuichbgrbbocup:cksepg,cgnfgcScrquv.cobybe
vbfybcJfekfcIbgeqyofcfo.crquv.cfvrfxpchbcnbecnuphfo.;cpb qo.vx,cgnfgcS
rquv.cobybecfhpbogcjxpbvkcrsgnqugcnbecibejsppsqo;cgnse.vx,cgnfgcScrquv.
obybecpbgcuicfcibejfobogcjspgebpp;ckquegnvx,csocebgueockqecgnsp,cJfekf
Ibgeqyofcafybcjbcfckebbcnfo.crsgncgnbcjfs.pbeyfogp,chugcqovxcrsgncnbe
pb ebgcwoqrvb.ab;ckskgnvx,cAq.ckqehs.cjxckfvvsoacsocvqybcrsgncfcrqjfocqk
quec vfpp;cpsdgnvx,csoc fpbcS--rns ncAq.ckqehs.--pnquv.chbcyspsgb.chx
fcaebfgcpbesqupcifppsqocScrfpchquo.cgqcebybfvcsgcgqcJfekfcIbgeqyoftcQo
gnspcvfpgcp qeb,cnqrbybe,cJfekfcIbgeqyofcrfpckfsevxcfgcbfpbtcPnbcrfpcf
pbopshvbcrqjfocfo.cpqcpnbc quv.coqgcnbvicvqqwsoacuiqocjbcfpcfc.sppqvugb
ieqkvsafgbcso fifhvbcqkcebfvcvqybtcHugcfcpbopshvbcrqjfocfo.cfcmbfvqup
rqjfocfebcgrqcybexc.skkbebogcgnsoap,cfo.cgnfg’pcrnbebcgnbcgequhvb
 fjbcsotcHugcgqcmu.abcpqjbcibqivbcsjifegsfvvxcrbcjupgceboquo bc begfso
ieb qo bsyb.cqisosqopcfo.cquecnfhsgufvcfggsgu.bcgqcgnbcqe.sofexcibqivb
fhqugcuptcScnfybcebfpqocgqcnfybckfsgncsocxquecmu.ajbogcefgnbecgnfo
socfoxqob’ptcIbenfipcxqucnfybcfvebf.xcnbfe.cfcaebfgc.bfvcgnfgcrfp
es.s uvqupcfo.cfhpue.cfhqugcJfekfcIbgeqyoftcPnbc begfsovxcnf.cpqjbcybex
es.s uvqupcrfxp,chugcScgbvvcxquckefowvxcgnfgcSckbbvcebfvvxcpqeexckqecgnb
sooujbefhvbcrqbpcqkcrns ncScrfpcgnbc fupbtcRbvv,cfo.cgnfg’pcboquan,cS
gnsow,chxcrfxcqkcfc.b qequpc_qefspqockuoèheb_ckqecgnbcjqpgcgbo.becrskb
qkcfcjqpgcgbo.becnuphfo.tcRnbocrbclufeebvvb.,cScupufvvxcnbv.cjxcgqoaub
fo.c.s.coqgcseesgfgbcnbecfo.cgnfgcabogvbjfovxc qo.u gcefebvxckfsvb.cgq
fggfsocsgpcqhmb g,csgcsokvubo b.cnbe,csgcivbfpb.cnbe,cso.bb.tcGnbpbcrbeb
gsjbpcrnbocpnbcrfpciqpsgsybvxciequ.cqkcjbtcHugcxquecpspgbecpnbc quv.o’g
iugcuicrsgn,cfoxrfxtcFo.cnqrbybecpnbc fjbcgqcespwcgfwsoacpu ncf
hbfugskuvc ebfguebcsogqcnbecnqupbcfpcfcaqybeobpptcJxcbdivfofgsqocspcgnfg
JfekfcIbgeqyofcrfpcfocfe.bogcfo.csjiebppsqofhvbcrqjfocfo.cpsjivxckbvv
socvqybcnbepbvk--vsgbefvvxckbvvcsocvqyb--rsgncxquecpspgbetcRbvv,cvsggvb
rqo.be--vqqwcfgcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof!cScpfrcgnbc.foabecfgcgnbcksepgcavfo b
fo.crnfgc.qcxqucgnsow,cScebpqvyb.coqgcgqcvqqwcfgcnbecbybotcHugcFy.qgxf
Eqjfoqyofcnbepbvkcjf.bcgnbcksepgcpgbi,crquv.cxquchbvsbybcsg?cRquv.cxqu
hbvsbybcsgcgqqcgnfgcJfekfcIbgeqyofcrfpciqpsgsybvxcfoaexcrsgncjbcfgcksepg
kqecjxcibepspgbogcpsvbo bcfhqugcxquecpspgbe,ckqecjxc febvbppceb bigsqo
qkcnbec qogsoufvcf.qesoaciefspbpcqkcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoftcSc.qo’gcwoqr
rnfgcsgcrfpcpnbcrfogb.!cRbvv,cqkc quepb,cJfekfcIbgeqyofcgqv.cFy.qgxf
Eqjfoqyofcbybexc.bgfsvcfhqugcjbtcPnbcnf.cgnbcuokqeguofgbcnfhsgcqk
gbvvsoacvsgbefvvxcbybexqobcfvvcqueckfjsvxcpb ebgpcfo.c qogsoufvvx
 qjivfsosoacqkcjb;cnqrc quv.cpnbckfsvcgqc qoks.bcsocpu ncfc.bvsangkuv
obrckesbo.?cScbdib gcgnbxcgfvwb.cqkcoqgnsoacbvpbchugcjbcfo.coqc.quhg
Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcnbfe.cfvvcgnqpbc.fewcjxpgbesqupceujquepcgnfgcrbeb
 ueebogcfhqugcjbttttcSc.qo’gcjso.chbggsoacgnfgcxqucgqqcnfybcnbfe.
pqjbgnsoacqkcgnbcpqegcfvebf.x?”

“ScnfybtcVuznsoc nfeab.cxqucrsgncnfysoac fupb.cgnbc.bfgncqkcfc nsv.tcSp
gnfgcgeub?”

“.qo’gcebkbecgqcgnqpbcyuvafecgfvbp,cSchba,”cpfs.cPys.esafïvqycrsgn
.spaupgcfo.cfooqxfo btc“Skcxqucsopspgcqocrfogsoacgqcwoqrcfhqugcfvvcgnfg
s.sq x,cScrsvvcgbvvcxqucqobc.fx,chugcoqrttt”

“Scrfpcgqv.cgqqcfhqugcpqjbckqqgjfocqkcxquepcsocgnbc quogexcrnqjcxqu
gebfgb.chf.vxt”

“Schbacxqucgqc.eqicgnbcpuhmb g,”cPys.esafïvqycsogbeeuigb.cfafsocrsgn
qhysqupcsjifgsbo bt

“Rfpcgnfgcgnbckqqgjfocrnqc fjbcgqcxqucfkgbec.bfgncgqcksvvcxquecisib?ttt
xqucgqv.cjbcfhqugcsgcxquepbvkt”cEfpwqvoswqyckbvgcjqebcfo.cjqeb
seesgfgb.t

Pys.esafïvqycvqqwb.cfgcnsjcfggbogsybvxcfo.cEfpwqvoswqyckfo sb.cnbc fuang
fckvfpncqkcpisgbkuvcjq wbexcsocgnfgcvqqwtcHugcPys.esafïvqycebpgefsob.
nsjpbvkcfo.cfoprbeb.cybexc sysvvx:

“Xbp,csgcrfptcScpbbcgnfgcxqu,cgqq,cfebcbdgebjbvxcsogbebpgb.cfo.cpnfvv
kbbvcsgcjxc.ugxcgqcpfgspkxcxquec uesqpsgxcfgcgnbcksepgcqiiqeguosgxtcUiqo
jxcpquv!cScpbbcgnfgcScebfvvxcjsangcifppckqecfceqjfogs cksauebcrsgn
pqjbcibqivbtcMu.abcnqrcaefgbkuvcScjupgchbcgqcJfekfcIbgeqyofckqecnfysoa
ebibfgb.cgqcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcpu ncjxpgbesqupcfo.csogbebpgsoacaqppsi
fhqugcjbtcSc.febcoqgcaubppcrnfgcsjiebppsqocsgcjf.bcqocnbe,chugcsocfox
 fpbcsgcrqewb.csocjxcsogbebpgptcRsgncfvvcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof’pcofguefv
fybepsqocfo.csocpisgbcqkcjxcsoyfesfhvxcavqqjxcfo.cebibvvbogcfpib g--pnb
.s.cfgcvbfpgckbbvcisgxckqecjb,cisgxckqecfcvqpgcpquvtcFo.cskcqo bcf
asev’pcnbfegcspcjqyb.cgqc_isgx_,csg’pcjqebc.foabequpcgnfocfoxgnsoatcPnb
spchquo.cgqcrfogcgqc‘pfybcnsj,’cgqchesoacnsjcgqcnspcpbopbp,cfo.cvskg
nsjcuicfo.c.efrcnsjcgqcoqhvbecfsjp,cfo.cebpgqebcnsjcgqcobrcvskbcfo.
upbkuvobpp--rbvv,crbcfvvcwoqrcnqrckfecpu nc.ebfjpc focaqtcScpfrcfgcqo b
gnfgcgnbchse.crfpckvxsoacsogqcgnbc fabcqkcnbepbvktcFo.cScgqqcjf.bcebf.xt
Scgnsowcxqucfebckeqrosoa,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n?cGnbeb’pcoqcobb.tcFpcxqu
woqr,csgcfvvcbo.b.csocpjqwbtc(Nfoacsgcfvv,crnfgcfcvqgcScfjc.esowsoa!)
.qcxqucwoqr,cScfvrfxp,ckeqjcgnbcybexchbasoosoa,cebaebggb.cgnfgcsgcrfpo’g
xquecpspgbe’pckfgbcgqchbchqeocsocgnbcpb qo.cqecgnse.c boguexcFt.t,cfp
gnbc.fuangbecqkcfcebsaosoacieso bcqecpqjbcaqybeoqecqecieq- qopuvcsocFpsf
JsoqetcPnbcrquv.cuo.quhgb.vxcnfybchbbocqobcqkcgnqpbcrnqcrquv.cbo.ueb
jfegxe.qjcfo.crquv.cnfybcpjsvb.crnbocgnbxchefo.b.cnbechqpqjcrsgncnqg
iso beptcFo.cpnbcrquv.cnfybcaqobcgqcsgcqkcnbepbvktcFo.csocgnbckquegncqe
kskgnc boguexcpnbcrquv.cnfybcrfvwb.cfrfxcsogqcgnbcBaxigsfoc.bpbegcfo.
rquv.cnfybcpgfxb.cgnbebcgnsegxcxbfepcvsysoacqoceqqgpcfo.cb pgfpsbpcfo.
yspsqoptcPnbcspcpsjivxcgnsepgsoacgqckf bcpqjbcgqeguebckqecpqjbqob,cfo.
skcpnbc fo’gcabgcnbecgqegueb,cpnb’vvcgneqrcnbepbvkcqugcqkcfcrso.qrtcS’yb
nbfe.cpqjbgnsoacqkcfcJetcEfzujsnso--nb’pcpfs.cgqchbcfcpbopshvbckbvvqr;
nspcpueofjbcpuaabpgpcsg,cso.bb.tcNb’pcieqhfhvxcfc.sysosgxcpgu.bogtcRbvv,
nb’.chbggbecvqqwcfkgbecxquecpspgbe!cSchbvsbybcScuo.bepgfo.cnbe,cfo.cScfj
iequ.cqkcsgtcHugcfgcgnbchbasoosoacqkcfocf lufsogfo b,cfpcxqucwoqr,cqob
spcfigcgqchbcjqebcnbb.vbppcfo.cpguis.tcQobc.qbpo’gcpbbc vbfevxtcNfoacsg
fvv,crnxcspcpnbcpqcnfo.pqjb?cSg’pcoqgcjxckfuvgtcSockf g,csgchbafocqo
jxcps.bcrsgncfcjqpgcseebpspgshvbcinxps fvc.bpsebtcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcsp
frkuvvxc nfpgb,cso eb.shvxcfo.cinboqjbofvvxcpqtcGfwbcoqgb,cScgbvvcxqu
gnspcfhqugcxquecpspgbecfpcfckf gtcPnbcspcfvjqpgcjqehs.vxc nfpgb,cso
pisgbcqkcnbecheqf.csogbvvsabo b,cfo.csgcrsvvcpgfo.csocnbecrfxtcGnbeb
nfiibob.cgqchbcfcasevcsocgnbcnqupbcgnbo,cIfefpnf,cfchvf w-bxb.
rbo n,crnqjcScnf.cobybecpbbochbkqeb--pnbcnf.cmupgc qjbckeqjcfoqgnbe
ysvvfab--ybexciebggx,chugcso eb.shvxcpguis.:cpnbchuepgcsogqcgbfep,
rfsvb.cpqcgnfgcpnbc quv.chbcnbfe.cfvvcqybecgnbcivf bcfo.c fupb.cp fo.fvt
Qobc.fxcfkgbec.soobecFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofckqvvqrb.cjbcsogqcfocfyboubcso
gnbcafe.bocfo.crsgnckvfpnsoacbxbpc_sopspgb._cqocjxcvbfysoaciqqecIfefpnf
fvqobtcSgcrfpcfvjqpgcquecksepgc qoybepfgsqochxcquepbvybptcS,cqkc quepb,
rfpcqovxcgqqcivbfpb.cgqcqhbxcnbecrspnbp,cgesb.cgqcfiibfec.sp qo begb.,
bjhfeefppb.,csockf gcivfxb.cjxcifegcoqgchf.vxtcGnboc fjbcsogbeysbrp,
jxpgbesqupc qoybepfgsqop,cbdnqegfgsqop,cbogebfgsbp,cpuiivs fgsqop,cbybo
gbfep--rquv.cxquchbvsbybcsg,cbybocgbfep?cGnsowcrnfgcgnbcifppsqockqe
ieqifafo.fcrsvvchesoacpqjbcasevpcgq!cS,cqkc quepb,cgnebrcsgcfvvcqo
jxc.bpgsox,ciqpb.cfpcnuoabesoacfo.cgnsepgsoackqecvsang,cfo.cksofvvx
ebpqegb.cgqcgnbcjqpgciqrbekuvcrbfiqocsocgnbcpuhmb gsqocqkcgnb
kbjfvbcnbfeg,cfcrbfiqocrns ncobybeckfsvpcqobtcSg’pcgnbcrbvv-woqro
ebpque b--kvfggbextcOqgnsoacsocgnbcrqev.cspcnfe.becgnfocpibfwsoacgnb
geugncfo.coqgnsoacbfpsbecgnfockvfggbextcSkcgnbeb’pcgnbcnuo.eb.gncifeg
qkcfckfvpbcoqgbcsocpibfwsoacgnbcgeugn,csgcvbf.pcgqcfc.sp qe.,cfo.cgnfg
vbf.pcgqcgequhvbtcHugcskcfvv,cgqcgnbcvfpgcoqgb,cspckfvpbcsockvfggbex,csg
spcmupgcfpcfaebbfhvb,cfo.cspcnbfe.coqgcrsgnqugcpfgspkf gsqotcSgcjfxchb
fc qfepbcpfgspkf gsqo,chugcpgsvvcfcpfgspkf gsqotcFo.cnqrbybec qfepbcgnb
kvfggbex,cfgcvbfpgcnfvkcrsvvchbcpuebcgqcpbbjcgeubtcGnfg’pcpqckqecfvv
pgfabpcqkc.bybvqijbogcfo.c vfppbpcqkcpq sbgxtcFcybpgfvcyseasocjsangchb
pb.u b.chxckvfggbextcSc focobybecebjbjhbecrsgnqugcvfuangbecnqrcScqo b
pb.u b.cfcvf.xcrnqcrfpc.byqgb.cgqcnbecnuphfo.,cnbec nsv.ebo,cfo.cnbe
ieso sivbptcRnfgckuocsgcrfpcfo.cnqrcvsggvbcgequhvb!cFo.cgnbcvf.xcebfvvx
nf.cieso sivbp--qkcnbecqro,cfoxrfxtcFvvcjxcgf gs pcvfxcsocpsjivxchbsoa
uggbevxcfoosnsvfgb.cfo.cieqpgefgbchbkqebcnbeciuesgxtcSckvfggbeb.cnbe
pnfjbvbppvx,cfo.cfpcpqqocfpcScpu  bb.b.csocabggsoacfciebppuebcqk
gnbcnfo.,cbybocfcavfo bckeqjcnbe,cScrquv.cebieqf ncjxpbvkckqecnfysoa
pofg nb.csgchxckqe b,cfo.crquv.c.b vfebcgnfgcpnbcnf.cebpspgb.,cpqcgnfg
Sc quv.cobybecnfybcafsob.cfoxgnsoachugckqecjxchbsoacpqcuoieso sivb.t
Scjfsogfsob.cgnfgcpnbcrfpcpqcsooq bogcgnfgcpnbc quv.coqgckqebpbbcjx
gebf nbex,cfo.cxsbv.b.cgqcjbcuo qop squpvx,cuofrfebp,cfo.cpqcqotcSo
kf g,cScgesujinb.,crnsvbcjxcvf.xcebjfsob.cksejvxc qoyso b.cgnfgcpnbcrfp
sooq bog,c nfpgb,cfo.ckfsgnkuvcgqcfvvcnbec.ugsbpcfo.cqhvsafgsqopcfo.
nf.cpu  ujhb.clusgbchxcf  s.bogtcFo.cnqrcfoaexcpnbcrfpcrsgncjbcrnbocS
bdivfsob.cgqcnbecfgcvfpgcgnfgcsgcrfpcjxcpso bebc qoys gsqocgnfgcpnbcrfp
mupgcfpcbfabecfpcStcIqqecJfekfcIbgeqyofcrfpcfrkuvvxcrbfwcqocgnbcps.bcqk
kvfggbex,cfo.cskcScnf.cqovxc feb.cgq,cScjsangcnfybcnf.cfvvcnbecieqibegx
pbggvb.cqocjbc.uesoacnbecvskbgsjbtc(Scfjc.esowsoacfocfrkuvcvqgcqkcrsob
oqrcfo.cgfvwsoacgqqcju nt)cScnqibcxqucrqo’gchbcfoaexcskcScjbogsqocoqr
gnfgcScrfpchbasoosoacgqcieq.u bcgnbcpfjbcbkkb gcqocFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoft
HugcScrfpcpguis.cfo.csjifgsbogcfo.cpiqsvb.csgcfvvtcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcnf.
pbybefvcgsjbp--fo.cqobcgsjbcsocifegs uvfe--hbbocaebfgvxc.spivbfpb.chx
gnbcbdiebppsqocqkcjxcbxbp,crquv.cxquchbvsbybcsg?cGnbebcrfpcpqjbgsjbpcf
vsangcsocgnbjcrns nckesangbob.cnbecfo.caebrcpgeqoabecfo.cpgeqoabecfo.
jqebcuoaufe.b.cgsvvcsgcrfpcnfgbkuvcgqcnbetcOqcobb.cgqcaqcsogqc.bgfsv,
hugcrbcifegb.tcGnbebcScf gb.cpguis.vxcfafsotcSckbvvcgqcmbbesoacsocgnb
 qfepbpgcrfxcfgcfvvcpu ncieqifafo.fcfo.cbkkqegpcgqc qoybegcjb;cIfefpnf
 fjbcqocgqcgnbcp bobcfafso,cfo.coqgcpnbcfvqob;csockf gcgnbebcrfpcf
gebjbo.qupcgq-.qtcFn,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n,cskcxquc quv.cqovxcpbbcnqrcxque
pspgbe’pcbxbpc fockvfpncpqjbgsjbp!cObybecjso.cjxchbsoac.euowcfgcgnsp
jqjbogcfo.cnfysoacnf.cfcrnqvbcavfppcqkcrsobtcScfjcpibfwsoacgnbcgeugnt
Scfppuebcxqucgnfgcgnspcavfo bcnfpcnfuogb.cjxc.ebfjp;cgnbcybexceupgvbcqk
nbec.ebppcrfpcjqebcgnfocSc quv.cpgfo.cfgcvfpgtcScebfvvxchbafocgqcgnsow
gnfgcScjsangchb qjbcbisvbigs tcSc quv.cobybecnfybchbvsbyb.cgnfgcSc quv.
hbcjqyb.cgqcpu ncfckebozxtcSgcrfpcbppbogsfv,cso.bb.,cgqchbceb qo svb.,
hugchxcgnbocsgcrfpcsjiqppshvbtcFo.csjfasobcrnfgcSc.s.cgnbo!cGqcrnfg
fcisg ncqkcpguis.sgxcfcjfoc fochbchequangchxckebozx!cObybecuo.begfwb
foxgnsoacsocfckebozx,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg ntcScebkvb gb.cgnfgcFy.qgxf
Eqjfoqyofcrfpcfkgbecfvvcfchbaafec(f n,cbd upbcjb,cgnfg’pcoqgcgnbcrqe.ttt
hugc.qbpcsgcjfggbecskcsgcbdiebppbpcgnbcjbfosoa?),cgnfgcpnbcvsyb.chx
nbecrqew,cgnfgcpnbcnf.cnbecjqgnbecfo.cxqucgqcwbbic(f n,cnfoacsg,cxqu
febckeqrosoacfafso),cfo.cScebpqvyb.cgqcqkkbecnbecfvvcjxcjqobx--gnsegx
gnqupfo.cequhvbpcSc quv.cnfybcebfvspb.cgnbo--skcpnbcrquv.ceuocfrfxcrsgn
jbcnbeb,cgqcIbgbephueatcQkc quepbcScpnquv.cnfybcyqrb.cbgbeofvcvqyb,
efigueb,cfo.cpqcqotc.qcxqucwoqr,cScrfpcpqcrsv.cfhqugcnbecfgcgnfgcgsjb
gnfgcskcpnbcnf.cgqv.cjbcgqciqspqocJfekfcIbgeqyofcqecgqc ugcnbecgneqfg
fo.cgqcjfeexcnbepbvk,csgcrquv.cnfybchbboc.qobcfgcqo b!cHugcsgcbo.b.cso
gnbc fgfpgeqinbcqkcrns ncxqucwoqrcfvebf.xtcXquc fockfo xcnqrckefogs cS
rfpcrnbocScnbfe.cgnfgcJfekfcIbgeqyofcnf.caqgcnqv.cqkcgnfgcp quo.ebvvx
fggqeobx,cVuznso,cfo.cnf.cfvjqpgcjf.bcfcjfg nchbgrbbocgnbj--rns ncrquv.
ebfvvxcnfybchbbocmupgcgnbcpfjbcgnsoacfpcScrfpcieqiqpsoatcRquv.o’gcsg?
Rquv.o’gcsg?cScoqgs bcgnfgcxqu’ybchbauocgqchbcybexcfggbogsybtttcxqu
sogbebpgsoacxquoacjfotttt”

Pys.esafïvqycpgeu wcgnbcgfhvbcrsgncnspckspgcsjifgsbogvxtcNbcrfpckvupnb.t
Efpwqvoswqycpfrc vbfevxcgnfgcgnbcavfppcqecavfppcfo.cfcnfvkcqkc nfjifaob
gnfgcnbcnf.cpsiib.cfvjqpgcuo qop squpvxcrfpcfkkb gsoacnsj--fo.cnb
ebpqvyb.cgqcgfwbcf.yfogfabcqkcgnbcqiiqeguosgxtcNbckbvgcybexcpupis squp
qkcPys.esafïvqyt

“Rbvv,cfkgbecrnfgcxqucnfybcpfs.,cScfjckuvvxc qoyso b.cgnfgcxqucnfyb
 qjbcgqcIbgbephueacrsgnc.bpsaopcqocjxcpspgbe,”cnbcpfs.c.seb gvxcgq
Pys.esafïvqy,csocqe.becgqcseesgfgbcnsjckuegnbet

“Qn,coqopbopb,”cpfs.cPys.esafïvqy,cpbbjsoacgqcequpbcnsjpbvktc“Rnx,cS
gqv.cxqutttchbps.bpcxquecpspgbec fo’gcbo.uebcjbt”

“Xbp,cScfjc begfsocgnfgcpnbc fo’g,chugcgnfg’pcoqgcgnbciqsogt”

“Febcxqucpqcpuebcgnfgcpnbc fo’g?”cPys.esafïvqycp ebrb.cuicnspcbxbpcfo.
pjsvb.cjq wsoavxtc“Xqucfebcesang,cpnbc.qbpo’gcvqybcjb,chugcxquc fo
obybechbcpuebcqkcrnfgcnfpcifppb.chbgrbbocnuphfo.cfo.crskbcqecvqybecfo.
jspgebpptcGnbeb’pcfvrfxpcfcvsggvbc qeobecrns ncebjfsopcfcpb ebgcgq
gnbcrqev.cfo.cspcqovxcwoqrocgqcgnqpbcgrqtcRsvvcxqucfoprbeckqecsgcgnfg
Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcebafe.b.cjbcrsgncfybepsqo?”

“Keqjcpqjbcrqe.pcxqu’ybc.eqiib.,cScoqgs bcgnfgcxqucpgsvvcnfyb
.bpsaop--fo.cqkc quepbcbysvcqobp--qoc.quosfcfo.cjbfocgqc feexcgnbjcqug
ieqjigvxt”

“Rnfg,cnfybcSc.eqiib.crqe.pcvswbcgnfg?”cPys.esafïvqycfpwb.csocofïyb
.spjfx,cgfwsoacoqgcgnbcpvsangbpgcoqgs bcqkcgnbcbisgnbgchbpgqrb.cqocnsp
.bpsaopt

“Rnx,cxqucfebc.eqiisoacgnbjcbybocoqrtcRnxcfebcxqucpqckesangbob.?cRnfg
febcxqucpqcfkefs.cqkcoqr?”

“Jb--fkefs.?cFkefs.cqkcxqu?cXqucnfybcefgnbecgqchbcfkefs.cqkcjb,c_ nbe
fjs_tcHugcrnfgcoqopbopbttttcS’ybc.euowcgqqcju ncgnquan,cScpbbcgnfgtcS
rfpcfvjqpgcpfxsoacgqqcju ncfafsotc.fjocgnbcrsob!cNs!cgnbeb,crfgbe!”

Nbcpofg nb.cuicgnbc nfjifaobchqggvbcfo.ckvuoacsgcrsgnqugc bebjqoxcqugcqk
gnbcrso.qrtcInsvsichequangcgnbcrfgbet

“Gnfg’pcfvvcoqopbopb!”cpfs.cPys.esafïvqy,crbggsoacfcgqrbvcfo.ciuggsoacsg
gqcnspcnbf.tc“HugcSc focfoprbecxqucsocqobcrqe.cfo.cfoosnsvfgbcfvvcxque
pupis sqoptc.qcxqucwoqrcgnfgcScfjcaqsoacgqcabgcjfeesb.?”

“Xqucgqv.cjbcpqchbkqebt”

“.s.cS?cS’ybckqeaqggbotcHugcSc quv.o’gcnfybcgqv.cxqucpqckqec begfsockqe
Scnf.coqgcbybocpbbocjxchbgeqgnb.;cScqovxcjbfogcgqtcHugcoqrcScebfvvx
nfybcfchbgeqgnb.cfo.csg’pcfcpbggvb.cgnsoa,cfo.cskcsgcrbebo’gcgnfgcScnfyb
hupsobppcgnfgc fo’gchbciugcqkk,cScrquv.cnfybcgfwbocxqucgqcpbbcgnbj
fgcqo b,ckqecScpnquv.cvswbcgqcfpwcxquecf.ys btcF n,cnfoacsg,cqovxcgbo
jsougbpcvbkg!cPbb,cvqqwcfgcgnbcrfg ntcHugcScjupgcgbvvcxqu,ckqecsg’pcfo
sogbebpgsoacpgqex,cjxcjfeesfab,csocsgpcqrocrfxtcRnbebcfebcxqucqkkcgq?
Aqsoacfafso?”

“Oq,cS’jcoqgcaqsoacfrfxcoqrt”

“Oqgcfgcfvv?cRbcpnfvvcpbbtcS’vvcgfwbcxqucgnbeb,cS’vvcpnqrcxqucjx
hbgeqgnb.,cqovxcoqgcoqrtcKqecxqu’vvcpqqocnfybcgqchbcqkktcXqucnfybcgqcaq
gqcgnbcesangcfo.cScgqcgnbcvbkgtc.qcxqucwoqrcgnfgcJf.fjbcEbppvs n,cgnb
rqjfocScfjcvq.asoacrsgncoqr,cbn?cScwoqrcrnfgcxqu’ebcgnsowsoa,cgnfgcpnb’p
gnbcrqjfocrnqpbcasevcgnbxcpfxc.eqrob.cnbepbvkcsocgnbcrsogbetc qjb,cfeb
xqucvspgbosoa?cPnbcfeefoab.csgcfvvckqecjbtcXqu’ebchqeb.,cpnbcpfs.,
xqucrfogcpqjbgnsoacgqcksvvcuicxquecgsjbtcKqe,cxqucwoqr,cScfjcfcavqqjx,
.biebppb.cibepqotc.qcxqucgnsowcS’jcvsang-nbfegb.?cOq,cS’jcavqqjxtcSc.q
oqcnfej,chugcpsgcsocfc qeobecrsgnqugcpibfwsoacfcrqe.ckqecgnebbc.fxpcfgcf
gsjbtcFo.cgnfgcEbppvs ncspcfcpvxcnuppx,cScgbvvcxqutcScwoqrcrnfgcpnbcnfp
aqgcsocnbecjso.;cpnbcgnsowpcScpnfvvcabgcps wcqkcsg,cfhfo.qocjxcrskbcfo.
.bifeg,cfo.cpnb’vvcabgcnqv.cqkcnbecfo.cjfwbcfcieqksgcqugcqkcnbe--socque
 vfpp,cqkc quepb,cqecnsanbetcPnbcgqv.cjbcgnbckfgnbecrfpcfcheqwbo-.qro
ebgseb.cqkks sfv,crnqcnfpchbbocpsggsoacsocfc nfseckqecgnbcvfpgcgnebb
xbfepcrsgncnspcvbapcifefvxpb.tcGnbcjfjjf,cpnbcpfs.,crfpcfcpbopshvb
rqjfotcGnbebcspcfcpqocpbeysoacsocgnbcieqyso bp,chugcnbc.qbpo’gcnbvi;
gnbebcspcfc.fuangbe,crnqcspcjfeesb.,chugcpnbc.qbpo’gcyspsgcgnbjtcFo.
gnbx’ybcgrqcvsggvbcobinbrpcqocgnbsecnfo.p,cfpcgnquancgnbsecqroc nsv.ebo
rbebcoqgcboquan,cfo.cgnbx’ybcgfwbockeqjcp nqqvcgnbsecxquoabpgc.fuangbe,
fcasevcrnq’vvchbcpsdgbbocsocfoqgnbecjqogn,cpqcgnfgcgnbocpnbc fochb
jfeesb.tcPnbcrfpckqecjbtcRbcrbogcgnbebtcNqrckuooxcsgcrfp!cSciebpbog
jxpbvk--fcvfo.qrobe,cfcrs.qrbe,cqkcfcrbvv-woqrocofjb,crsgnc qoob gsqop,
rsgncfckqeguobtcRnfgcskcScfjckskgxcfo.cpnbcspcoqgcpsdgbbo?cRnqcgnsowp
qkcgnfg?cHugcsg’pckfp sofgsoa,cspo’gcsg?cSgcspckfp sofgsoa,cnf-nf!cXqu
pnquv.cnfybcpbbocnqrcScgfvwb.cgqcgnbcififcfo.cjfjjftcSgcrfpcrqegncifxsoa
gqcnfybcpbbocjbcfgcgnfgcjqjbogtcPnbc qjbpcso,c uegpbxp,cxquc fockfo x,
pgsvvcsocfcpnqegckeq w--focuoqibob.chu.!cKvupnsoacvswbcfcpuopbg--pnbcnf.
hbbocgqv.,coqc.quhgtcSc.qo’gcwoqrcnqrcxquckbbvcfhqugckbjfvbckf bp,chug
gqcjxcjso.cgnbpbcpsdgbbocxbfep,cgnbpbc nsv.spncbxbp,cpnxobppcfo.cgbfep
qkchfpnkuvobppcfebchbggbecgnfochbfugx;cfo.cpnbcspcfcibekb gcvsggvb
is gueb,cgqqtcKfsecnfsecsocvsggvbc uevp,cvswbcfcvfjh’p,ckuvvcvsggvbceqpx
vsip,cgsoxckbbg,cfc nfejbe!tttcRbvv,crbcjf.bckesbo.ptcScgqv.cgnbjcScrfp
socfcnueexcqrsoacgqc.qjbpgs c se ujpgfo bp,cfo.cgnbcobdgc.fx,cgnfgcsp
gnbc.fxchbkqebcxbpgbe.fx,crbcrbebchbgeqgnb.tcRnbocScaqcoqrcScgfwbcnbecqo
jxcwobbcfgcqo bcfo.cwbbicnbecgnbebttttcRbvv,cpnbckvupnbpcvswbcfcpuopbg
fo.cScwsppcnbecbybexcjsougbtcNbecjfjjfcqkc quepbcsjiebppbpcqocnbecgnfg
gnspcspcnbecnuphfo.cfo.cgnfgcgnspcjupgchbcpqtcSg’pcpsjivxc.bvs squp!cGnb
iebpbogchbgeqgnb.c qo.sgsqocspcibenfipchbggbecgnfocjfeesfabtcNbebcxqu
nfybcrnfgcspc fvvb.c_vfcofguebcbgcvfcyéesgé_,cnf-nf!cS’ybcgfvwb.cgqcnbe
grs b,cpnbcspckfeckeqjcfckqqvtcPqjbgsjbpcpnbcpgbfvpcfcvqqwcfgcjbcgnfg
iqpsgsybvxcp qe nbpcjbtcNbeckf bcspcvswbcEfinfbv’pcJf.qooftcXqucwoqr,
gnbcPspgsobcJf.qoof’pckf bcnfpcpqjbgnsoackfogfpgs csocsg,cgnbckf b
qkcjqueokuvcebvsasqupcb pgfpxtcNfybo’gcxqucoqgs b.csg?cRbvv,cpnb’p
pqjbgnsoacsocgnfgcvsobtcGnbc.fxcfkgbecrb’.chbbochbgeqgnb.,cSchquangcnbe
iebpbogpcgqcgnbcyfvubcqkckskgbbocnuo.eb.cequhvbp--fcpbgcqkc.sfjqo.pcfo.
foqgnbecqkcibfevpcfo.cfcpsvybec.ebppsoa- fpbcfpcvfeabcfpcgnsp,crsgncfvv
pqegpcqkcgnsoapcsocsg,cpqcgnfgcbybocjxcJf.qoof’pckf bcavqrb.tcScpfgcnbe
qocjxcwobb,cxbpgbe.fx,cfo.cScpuiiqpbcefgnbecgqqcuo bebjqosqupvx--pnb
kvupnb.c esjpqocfo.cgnbcgbfepcpgfegb.,chugcpnbc.s.o’gcrfogcgqcpnqrcsgt
Rbcrbebcvbkgcfvqob,cpnbcpu..bovxckvuoacnbepbvkcqocjxcob wc(kqecgnbcksepg
gsjbcqkcnbecqrocf  qe.),ciugcnbecvsggvbcfejpcequo.cjb,cwsppb.cjb,cfo.
yqrb.cgnfgcpnbcrquv.chbcfocqhb.sbog,ckfsgnkuv,cfo.caqq.crskb,crquv.cjfwb
jbcnfiix,crquv.c.byqgbcfvvcnbecvskb,cbybexcjsougbcqkcnbecvskb,crquv.
pf esks bcbybexgnsoa,cbybexgnsoa,cfo.cgnfgcfvvcpnbcfpwpcsocebgueocsp
jxc_ebpib g_,cfo.cgnfgcpnbcrfogpc‘oqgnsoa,coqgnsoacjqebckeqjcjb,coq
iebpbogpt’cXqu’vvcf.jsgcgnfgcgqcnbfecpu ncfc qokbppsqo,cfvqob,ckeqjcfo
foabvcqkcpsdgbbocsocfcjupvsockeq w,crsgncvsggvbc uevp,crsgncfckvupn
qkcjfs.bocpnxobppcsocnbec nbbwpcfo.cgbfepcqkcbognupsfpjcsocnbecbxbpcsp
efgnbeckfp sofgsoa!cSpo’gcsgckfp sofgsoa?cSg’pcrqegncifxsoackqe,cspo’g
sg?cRbvvtttcvspgbo,crb’vvcaqcgqcpbbcjxchbgeqgnb.,cqovxcoqgcmupgcoqr!”

“Gnbckf gcspcgnspcjqopgequpc.skkbebo bcsocfabcfo.c.bybvqijbogcbd sgbp
xquecpbopufvsgx!cRsvvcxqucebfvvxcjfwbcpu ncfcjfeesfab?”

“Rnx,cqkc quepbtcBybexqobcgnsowpcqkcnsjpbvk,cfo.cnbcvsybpcjqpgcafsvxcrnq
woqrpchbpgcnqrcgqc.b bsybcnsjpbvktcNf-nf!cHugcrnxcfebcxqucpqcwbbocfhqug
ysegub?cNfybcjbe xcqocjb,cjxcaqq.ckesbo.tcScfjcfcpsokuvcjfotcNf-nf-nf!”

“Hugcxqucnfybcieqys.b.ckqecgnbc nsv.ebocqkcWfgbesofcSyfoqyoftcGnquanttt
gnquancxqucnf.cxquecqrocebfpqopttttcScuo.bepgfo.csgcfvvcoqrt”

“Scfjcfvrfxpckqo.cqkc nsv.ebo,cybexckqo.cqkcgnbj,”cvfuanb.cPys.esafïvqyt
“Sc focgbvvcxqucqobc uesqupcsopgfo bcqkcsgtcGnbcksepgc.fxcSc fjbcnbebcS
yspsgb.cyfesqupcnfuogp,cfkgbecpbybocxbfepcScpsjivxceupnb.cfgcgnbjtcXqu
ieqhfhvxcoqgs bcgnfgcScfjcoqgcsocfcnueexcgqcebobrcf lufsogfo bcrsgncjx
qv.ckesbo.ptcScpnfvvc.qcrsgnqugcgnbjcfpcvqoacfpcSc fotc.qcxqucwoqr,crnbo
ScrfpcrsgncJfekfcIbgeqyofcsocgnbc quogex,cScrfpcnfuogb.chxcgnbcgnquang
qkcgnbpbcivf bpcrnbebcfoxqobcrnqcwoqrpcnspcrfxcfhqugc fockso.cfcaebfg
.bfvtcXbp,cuiqocjxcpquv!cGnbcibfpfogpcnfybcyq.wf,cgnbcb.u fgb.cxquoa
ibqivb,cpnugcqugckeqjcf gsysgx,crfpgbcgnbjpbvybpcsocsjiqppshvbc.ebfjp
fo.cyspsqopcfo.cfebc esiivb.chxcgnbqesbp;cMbrpcnfybcpieuoacuicfo.cfeb
fjfppsoacjqobx,cfo.cfvvcgnbcebpgcasybcgnbjpbvybpcuicgqc.bhfu nbextcKeqj
gnbcksepgcnquecgnbcgqrocebbwb.cqkcsgpckfjsvsfecq.queptcSc nfo b.cgqchb
socfckesangkuvc.bo--Scvswbcjxc.bopc.segx--sgcrfpcfc.fo b,cpqc fvvb.,cfo.
gnbebcrfpcfc_ fo fo_cpu ncfpcScobybecpfrcsocjxc.fxtcXbp,cgnbebcxqu
nfybcieqaebpptcFvvcqkcfcpu..bocScpfrcfcvsggvbcasevcqkcgnsegbbo,cos bvx
.ebppb.,c.fo soacrsgncfcpib sfvspgcsocgnfgcvsob,crsgncfoqgnbecqob
_ysp-à-ysp_tcNbecjqgnbecrfpcpsggsoacqocfc nfsechxcgnbcrfvvtcXquc fo’g
kfo xcrnfgcfc_ fo fo_cgnfgcrfp!cGnbcasevcrfpcfpnfjb.,chvupnb.,cfg
vfpgckbvgcsopuvgb.,cfo.chbafocgqc extcNbecifegobecpbszb.cnbecfo.chbafo
rnsevsoacnbecequo.cfo.cibekqejsoachbkqebcnbe;cbybexqobcvfuanb.cfo.--S
vswbcxqueciuhvs ,cbybocgnbc_ fo fo_ciuhvs --gnbxcvfuanb.cfo.cpnqugb.,
‘Pbeybpcnbecesang--pbeybpcnbecesang!cPnquv.o’gchesoac nsv.ebo!’cRbvv,
sg’pcoqgcjxchupsobppcrnbgnbecgnfgc qopqvsoacebkvb gsqocrfpcvqas fvcqe
oqgtcScfgcqo bcksdb.cqocjxcivfo,cpfgc.qrochxcgnbcjqgnbe,cfo.chbafochx
pfxsoacgnfgcScgqqcrfpcfcpgefoabecfo.cgnfgcibqivbcnbebcrbebcsvv-heb.cfo.
gnfgcgnbxc quv.o’gc.spgsoauspnc.b bogckqvwpcfo.cgebfgcgnbjcrsgncebpib g,
afybcnbecgqcuo.bepgfo.cgnfgcScnf.civbogxcqkcjqobx,cqkkbeb.cgqcgfwbcgnbj
nqjbcsocjxc feesfabtcScgqqwcgnbjcnqjbcfo.caqgcgqcwoqrcgnbjtcGnbxcrbeb
vq.asoacsocfcjspbefhvbcvsggvbcnqvbcfo.cnf.cqovxcmupgcfeesyb.ckeqjcgnb
 quogextcPnbcgqv.cjbcgnfgcpnbcfo.cnbec.fuangbec quv.cqovxcebafe.cjx
f lufsogfo bcfpcfocnqoquetcSckquo.cqugcgnfgcgnbxcnf.coqgnsoacqkcgnbse
qrocfo.cnf.c qjbcgqcgqrocuiqocpqjbcvbafvchupsobpptcScieqkkbeb.cjx
pbeys bpcfo.cjqobxtcScvbfeogcgnfgcgnbxcnf.caqobcgqcgnbc.fo soacpfvqqo
hxcjspgfwb,chbvsbysoacgnfgcsgcrfpcfcabousobc.fo soac vfpptcScqkkbeb.cgq
fppspgcsocgnbcxquoacasev’pcb.u fgsqocsocKebo ncfo.c.fo soatcJxcqkkbecrfp
f  bigb.crsgncbognupsfpjcfpcfocnqoque--fo.crbcfebcpgsvvckesbo.vxttttcSk
xqucvswb,crb’vvcaqcfo.cpbbcgnbj,cqovxcoqgcmupgcoqrt”

“Pgqi!cBoquancqkcxquecysvb,cofpgxcfob .qgbp,c.biefyb.cysvb,cpbopufv
jfo!”

“P nsvvbe,cxqucfebcfcebauvfecP nsvvbe!c_Qcvfcybegucyf-g-bvvbcpbcos nbe?_
HugcxqucwoqrcScpnfvvcgbvvcxqucgnbpbcgnsoapcqociueiqpb,ckqecgnbcivbfpueb
qkcnbfesoacxquecqug esbp!”

“Sc.febcpfxtcSc focpbbcScfjces.s uvqupcjxpbvk,”cjuggbeb.cEfpwqvoswqy
foaesvxt

Pys.esafïvqycvfuanb.cnbfegsvx;cksofvvxcnbc fvvb.cInsvsi,cifs.cnspchsvv,
fo.chbafocabggsoacuit

“Scpfx,chugcScfjc.euow,c_fppbzc fupé_,”cnbcpfs.tc“Sg’pchbbocfcivbfpuebt”

“Scpnquv.cefgnbecgnsowcsgcjupgchbcfcivbfpueb!”c esb.cEfpwqvoswqy,
abggsoacuitc“Oqc.quhgcsgcspcfcivbfpuebckqecfcrqeo-qugcieqkvsafgbcgq
.bp eshbcpu ncf.yboguebpcrsgncfcjqopgequpcieqmb gcqkcgnbcpfjbcpqegcso
nspcjso.--bpib sfvvxcuo.becpu nc se ujpgfo bpcfo.cgqcpu ncfcjfocfp
jbttttcSg’pcpgsjuvfgsoa!”

“Rbvv,cskcxquc qjbcgqcgnfg,”cPys.esafïvqycfoprbeb.,cp eugsospsoa
Efpwqvoswqycrsgncpqjbcpueiespb,c“skcxquc qjbcgqcgnfg,cxqucfebcfcgnqequan
 xos cxquepbvktcXqu’ybcivbogxcgqcjfwbcxqucpq,cfoxrfxtcXquc focuo.bepgfo.
fcaebfgc.bfvtttcfo.cxquc foc.qcfcaebfgc.bfvcgqqtcHugcboquantcScpso bebvx
ebaebgcoqgcnfysoacnf.cjqebcgfvwcrsgncxqu,chugcScpnfo’gcvqpbcpsangcqk
xquttttcQovxcrfsgcfchsgt”

Pys.esafïvqycrfvwb.cqugcqkcgnbcebpgfuefogtcEfpwqvoswqycrfvwb.cqugcfkgbe
nsjtcPys.esafïvqycrfpcoqgcnqrbybecybexc.euow,cgnbcrsobcnf.cfkkb gb.cnsj
kqecfcjqjbog,chugcsgcrfpcifppsoacqkkcbybexcjsougbtcNbcrfpciebq  uisb.
rsgncpqjbgnsoacqkcsjiqegfo bcfo.crfpckeqrosoatcNbcrfpcfiifebogvxcbd sgb.
fo.cuobfpxcsocfogs sifgsqocqkcpqjbgnsoatcNspcjfoobecgqcEfpwqvoswqycnf.
 nfoab.c.uesoacgnbcvfpgckbrcjsougbp,cfo.cnbcrfpceu.becfo.cjqebcpobbesoa
bybexcjqjbogtcEfpwqvoswqycoqgs b.cfvvcgnsp,cfo.cnbcgqqcrfpcuobfpxtcNb
hb fjbcybexcpupis squpcqkcPys.esafïvqycfo.cebpqvyb.cgqckqvvqrcnsjt

Gnbxc fjbcqugcqocgqcgnbcifybjbogt

“Xqucaqcgqcgnbcesang,cfo.cScgqcgnbcvbkg,cqecskcxqucvswb,cgnbcqgnbecrfxt
Qovxc_f.sbu,cjqocivfspse_,cjfxcrbcjbbgcfafsot”

Fo.cnbcrfvwb.cgqcgnbcesangcgqrfe.pcgnbcNfxcJfewbgt



 NFIGBEcY

Efpwqvoswqycrfvwb.cfkgbecnsjt

“Rnfg’pcgnsp?”c esb.cPys.esafïvqycgueosoacequo.,c“ScgnquangcScpfs.ttt”

“SgcjbfopcgnfgcScfjcoqgcaqsoacgqcvqpbcpsangcqkcxqucoqrt”

“Rnfg?”

Hqgncpgqq.cpgsvvcfo.cafzb.cfgcqobcfoqgnbe,cfpcgnquancjbfpuesoacgnbse
pgeboagnt

“Keqjcfvvcxquecnfvkcgsipxcpgqesbp,”cEfpwqvoswqycqhpbeyb.cnfepnvx,c“Scfj
_iqpsgsyb_cgnfgcxqucnfybcoqgcasybocuicxquec.bpsaopcqocjxcpspgbe,chug
febciuepusoacgnbjcjqebcf gsybvxcgnfocbybetcScnfybcvbfeogcgnfgcjxcpspgbe
eb bsyb.cfcvbggbecgnspcjqeosoatcXqucnfybcnfe.vxchbbocfhvbcgqcpsgcpgsvv
fvvcgnspcgsjbttttcXqucjfxcnfybcuobfegnb.cfcrskbcqocgnbcrfx,chugcgnfg
jbfopcoqgnsoatcScpnquv.cvswbcgqcjfwbc begfsocjxpbvkt”

Efpwqvoswqyc quv.cnfe.vxcnfybcpfs.cnsjpbvkcrnfgcnbcrfogb.cfo.cqkcrnfgcnb
rspnb.cgqcjfwbc begfsot

“Uiqocjxcrqe.!cS’vvc fvvcgnbciqvs b!”

“ fvvcfrfx!”

Fafsocgnbxcpgqq.ckqecfcjsougbckf soacbf ncqgnbetcFgcvfpgcPys.esafïvqy’p
kf bc nfoab.tcNfysoacpfgspksb.cnsjpbvkcgnfgcEfpwqvoswqycrfpcoqg
kesangbob.cfgcnspcgnebfg,cnbcfppujb.cfcjsegnkuvcfo.ckesbo.vxcfset

“Rnfgcfckbvvqr!cSciueiqpbvxcebkefsob.ckeqjcebkbeesoacgqcxquecfkkfse,
gnquancScfjc.byqueb.chxc uesqpsgxtcSg’pcfckfogfpgs cfkkfsetcS’ybciugcsg
qkkcgsvvcfoqgnbecgsjb,chugcxqu’ebcboquancgqcequpbcgnbc.bf.ttttcRbvv,cvbg
upcaq,cqovxcScrfeocxquchbkqebnfo.cScfjcqovxcaqsoacnqjbckqecfcjqjbog,
gqcabgcpqjbcjqobx;cgnbocScpnfvvcvq wcuicgnbckvfg,cgfwbcfc fhcfo.caqcgq
pibo.cgnbcbybosoacfgcgnbcSpvfo.ptcOqr,coqrcfebcxqucaqsoacgqckqvvqrcjb?”

“S’jc qjsoacgqcxquecvq.asoap,coqgcgqcpbbcxquchugcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cgq
pfxcS’jcpqeexcoqgcgqcnfybchbbocfgcgnbckuobefvt”

“Gnfg’pcfpcxqucvswb,chugcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcspcoqgcfgcnqjbtcPnbcnfpcgfwbo
gnbcgnebbc nsv.ebocgqcfocqv.cvf.xcqkcnsancefow,cgnbcifgeqobppcqkcpqjb
qeinfocfpxvujp,crnqjcScupb.cgqcwoqrcxbfepcfaqtcSc nfejb.cgnbcqv.cvf.xchx
.biqpsgsoacfcpujcqkcjqobxcrsgncnbecgqcieqys.bckqecgnbcgnebbc nsv.ebocqk
WfgbesofcSyfoqyofcfo.cpuhp eshsoacgqcgnbcsopgsgugsqocfpcrbvvtcScgqv.cnbe
gqqcgnbcpgqexcqkcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcsockuvvc.bgfsv,cpuiiebppsoacoqgnsoat
Sgcieq.u b.cfocso.bp eshfhvbcbkkb gcqocnbetcGnfg’pcrnxcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof
nfpchbbocsoysgb.cgqc fvvcgq-.fxcfgcgnbcDtcNqgbvcrnbebcgnbcvf.xcsp
pgfxsoackqecgnbcgsjbt”

“Oqcjfggbe,cS’vvc qjbcfvvcgnbcpfjbt”

“Fpcxqucvswb,csg’pcoqgnsoacgqcjb,chugcScrqo’gc qjbcrsgncxqu;cnbebcrbcfeb
fgcnqjbtcHxcgnbcrfx,cScfjc qoyso b.cgnfgcxqucebafe.cjbcrsgncpupis sqo
mupgchb fupbcScnfybcpnqrocpu nc.bvs f xcfo.cnfybcoqgcpqckfecgequhvb.
xqucrsgnclubpgsqoptttcxqucuo.bepgfo.?cSgcpgeu wcxqucfpcbdgefqe.sofex;cS
.qo’gcjso.chbggsoacsg’pcgnfgtcRbvv,csgcgbf nbpcqobcgqcpnqrc.bvs f x!”

“Fo.cgqcvspgbocfgc.qqep!”

“Fn,cgnfg’pcsg,cspcsg?”cvfuanb.cPys.esafïvqytc“Xbp,cScpnquv.cnfybchbbo
pueiespb.cskcxqucnf.cvbgcgnfgcifppcfkgbecfvvcgnfgcnfpcnfiibob.tcNf-nf!
GnquancSc.s.cuo.bepgfo.cpqjbgnsoacqkcgnbciefowpcxqucnf.chbbocuicgqcfo.
rbebcgbvvsoacPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcfhqug,crnfgcrfpcgnbcjbfosoacqkcsg?cIbenfip
Scfjclusgbchbnso.cgnbcgsjbpcfo.c fo’gcuo.bepgfo.tcKqecaqq.obpp’cpfwb,
bdivfsocsg,cjxc.bfechqxtcBdiquo.cgnbcvfgbpgcgnbqesbp!”

“Xquc quv.o’gcnfybcnbfe.cfoxgnsoatcXqu’ebcjfwsoacsgcfvvcui!”

“HugcS’jcoqgcgfvwsoacfhqugcgnfgc(gnquancSc.s.cnbfecpqjbgnsoa)tcOq,cS’j
gfvwsoacqkcgnbcrfxcxqucwbbicpsansoacfo.caeqfosoacoqrtcGnbcP nsvvbecso
xqucspcsocebyqvgcbybexcjqjbog,cfo.coqrcxqucgbvvcjbcoqgcgqcvspgbocfg
.qqeptcSkcgnfg’pcnqrcxquckbbv,caqcfo.csokqejcgnbciqvs bcgnfgcxqucnf.
gnspcjsp nfo b:cxqucjf.bcfcvsggvbcjspgfwbcsocxquecgnbqextcHugcskcxqucfeb
 qoyso b.cgnfgcqobcjupgo’gcvspgbocfgc.qqep,chugcqobcjfxcjue.becqv.crqjbo
fgcqob’pcivbfpueb,cxqu’.chbggbechbcqkkcgqcFjbes fcfo.cjfwbcnfpgbtcEuo,
xquoacjfo!cGnbebcjfxcpgsvvchbcgsjbtcS’jcpibfwsoacpso bebvxtcNfybo’gcxqu
gnbcjqobx?cS’vvcasybcxqucgnbckfebt”

“S’jcoqgcgnsowsoacqkcgnfgcfgcfvv,”cEfpwqvoswqycsogbeeuigb.crsgnc.spaupgt

“Scuo.bepgfo.c(hugc.qo’gciugcxquepbvkcqug,c.qo’gc.sp uppcsgcskcxquc.qo’g
rfogcgq)tcScuo.bepgfo.cgnbclubpgsqopcxqucfebcrqeexsoacqybe--jqefvcqobp,
febo’gcgnbx?c.ugsbpcqkc sgszbocfo.cjfo?cVfxcgnbjcfvvcfps.btcGnbxcfeb
oqgnsoacgqcxqucoqr,cnf-nf!cXqu’vvcpfxcxqucfebcpgsvvcfcjfocfo.cfc sgszbot
Skcpqcxqucquangcoqgcgqcnfybcaqgcsogqcgnspc qsvtcSg’pcoqcupbcgfwsoacuicf
mqhcxqucfebcoqgcksgckqetcRbvv,cxqu’.chbggbecpnqqgcxquepbvk,cqec.qo’gcxqu
rfogcgq?”

“Xqucpbbjcgexsoacgqcboefabcjb,cgqcjfwbcjbcvbfybcxqut”

“Rnfgcfclubbeckbvvqr!cHugcnbebcrbcfebtcRbv qjbcgqcgnbcpgfse fpbtcXqu
pbb,cgnfg’pcgnbcrfxcgqcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyoftcVqqw,cgnbebcspcoqcqobcfgcnqjbt
.qo’gcxquchbvsbybcjb?cFpwcWfibeofujqytcPnbcvbfybpcgnbcwbxcrsgncnsjtcNbeb
spcJf.fjbc.bcWfibeofujqycnbepbvktcNbx,crnfg?cPnbcspcefgnbec.bfktcNfpcpnb
aqobcqug?cRnbeb?c.s.cxqucnbfe?cPnbcspcoqgcsocfo.crqo’gchbcgsvvcvfgbcso
gnbcbybosoacieqhfhvxtcRbvv,c qjbcgqcjxceqqj;cxqucrfogb.cgqc qjbcfo.cpbb
jb,c.s.o’gcxqu?cNbebcrbcfebtcJf.fjbcEbppvs n’pcoqgcfgcnqjbtcPnbcspcf
rqjfocrnqcspcfvrfxpchupx,cfocbd bvvbogcrqjfocScfppuebcxquttttcPnbcjsang
nfybchbbocqkcupbcgqcxqucskcxqucnf.chbbocfcvsggvbcjqebcpbopshvbtcOqr,
pbb!cScgfwbcgnspcksyb-ibe- bogchqo.cqugcqkcgnbchuebfu--pbbcrnfgcfcvqg
S’ybcaqgcqkcgnbjcpgsvv--gnspcqobcrsvvchbcgueob.csogqc fpncgq-.fxtcS
jupgo’gcrfpgbcfoxcjqebcgsjbtcGnbchuebfucspcvq wb.,cgnbckvfgcspcvq wb.,
fo.cnbebcrbcfebcfafsocqocgnbcpgfseptcPnfvvcrbcgfwbcfc fh?cS’jcaqsoacgq
gnbcSpvfo.ptcRquv.cxqucvswbcfcvskg?cS’vvcgfwbcgnspc feesfabtcFn,cxqu
ebkupb?cXqucfebcgseb.cqkcsg!c qjbckqecfc.esyb!cSchbvsbybcsgcrsvvc qjbcqo
gqcefsotcObybecjso.,crb’vvciugc.qrocgnbcnqq.tttt”

Pys.esafïvqycrfpcfvebf.xcsocgnbc feesfabtcEfpwqvoswqyc.b s.b.cgnfgcnsp
pupis sqopcrbebcfgcvbfpgckqecgnfgcjqjbogcuomupgtcRsgnqugcfoprbesoacf
rqe.cnbcgueob.cfo.crfvwb.chf wcgqrfe.pcgnbcNfxcJfewbgtcSkcnbcnf.cqovx
gueob.cequo.cqocnspcrfxcnbcjsangcnfybcpbbocPys.esafïvqycabgcqugcoqgcf
nuo.eb.cif bpcqkk,c.spjsppcgnbc fhcfo.crfvwcfvqoacgnbcifybjbogtcHugcnb
nf.cgueob.cgnbc qeobecfo.c quv.cpbbcoqgnsoatcSogbopbc.spaupgc.ebrcnsj
frfxckeqjcPys.esafïvqyt

“GqcgnsowcgnfgcSc quv.ckqecqobcsopgfogcnfybcvqqwb.ckqecnbvickeqjcgnfg
 qfepbcheugb,cgnfgc.biefyb.cpbopufvspgcfo.chvf waufe.!”cnbc esb.t

Efpwqvoswqy’pcmu.ajbogcrfpcuggbeb.cgqqcvsangvxcfo.cnfpgsvx:cgnbebcrfp
pqjbgnsoacfhqugcPys.esafïvqycrns ncafybcnsjcfc begfsocqesasofv,cbybocf
jxpgbesqupc nfef gbetcFpc qo beob.cnspcpspgbe,cEfpwqvoswqycrfpc qoyso b.
gnfgcPys.esafïvqycrquv.coqgcvbfybcnbecsocibf btcHugcsgcrfpcgqqcgsebpqjb
fo.cuohbfefhvbcgqcaqcqocgnsowsoacfo.cgnsowsoacfhqugcgnspt

Rnbocnbcrfpcfvqob,cnbcnf.coqgcaqobcgrbogxcif bpchbkqebcnbcpfow,cfp
upufv,csogqc.bbicgnquangtcQocgnbches.abcnbcpgqq.chxcgnbcefsvsoacfo.
hbafocafzsoacfgcgnbcrfgbetcFo.cnspcpspgbecrfpcpgfo.soac vqpbchxcnsjt

Nbcjbgcnbecfgcgnbcbogefo bcgqcgnbches.ab,chugcifppb.chxcrsgnqugcpbbsoa
nbetc.quosfcnf.cobybecjbgcnsjcvswbcgnspcsocgnbcpgebbgchbkqebcfo.crfp
pgeu wcrsgnc.spjfxtcPnbcpgqq.cpgsvvcfo.c.s.coqgcwoqrcrnbgnbecgqc fvv
gqcnsjcqecoqgtcPu..bovxcpnbcpfrcPys.esafïvqyc qjsoaclus wvxckeqjcgnb
.seb gsqocqkcgnbcNfxcJfewbgt

Nbcpbbjb.cgqchbcfiieqf nsoac fugsqupvxtcNbc.s.coqgcaqcqocgqcgnb
hes.ab,chugcpgqq.cfps.bcqocgnbcifybjbog,c.qsoacfvvcnbc quv.cgqcfyqs.
Efpwqvoswqy’pcpbbsoacnsjtcNbcnf.cqhpbeyb.c.quosfckqecpqjbcgsjbcfo.cnf.
hbbocjfwsoacpsaopcgqcnbetcPnbckfo sb.cnbcrfpcpsaofvvsoacgqchbacnbecoqg
gqcpibfwcgqcnbecheqgnbe,chugcgqc qjbcgqcnsjt

Gnfgcrfpcrnfgc.quosfc.s.tcPnbcpgqvbchxcnbecheqgnbecfo.crbogcuicgq
Pys.esafïvqyt

“Vbgcupcjfwbcnfpgbcfrfx,”cPys.esafïvqycrnspibeb.cgqcnbe,c“Sc.qo’gcrfog
Eq.sqocEqjfoqysg ncgqcwoqrcqkcquecjbbgsoatcScjupgcgbvvcxqucS’ybchbbo
psggsoacrsgncnsjcsocgnbcebpgfuefogc vqpbchx,crnbebcnbcvqqwb.cjbcuicfo.
Scnf.caebfgc.skks uvgxcsocabggsoaces.cqkcnsjtcNbcnfpcpqjbnqrcnbfe.cqk
jxcvbggbecgqcxqucfo.cpupib gpcpqjbgnsoatcSgcrfpo’gcxqucrnqcgqv.cnsj,cqk
 quepb,chugcskcoqgcxqu,crnqcgnbo?”

“Rbvv,crb’ybcgueob.cgnbc qeobecoqr,”c.quosfcsogbeeuigb.,c“fo.cjxcheqgnbe
rqo’gcpbbcuptcScnfybcgqcgbvvcxqucgnfgcScfjcaqsoacoqckuegnbecrsgncxqut
PibfwcgqcjbcnbebtcXquc focgbvvcsgcfvvcsocgnbcpgebbgt”

“Socgnbcksepgcivf b,cSc fo’gcpfxcsgcsocgnbcpgebbg;cpb qo.vx,cxqucjupg
nbfecPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcgqq;cfo.,cgnse.vx,cScrsvvcpnqrcxqucpqjbcifibeptttt
Qncrbvv,cskcxqucrqo’gcfaebbcgqc qjbcrsgncjb,cScpnfvvcebkupbcgqcasyb
foxcbdivfofgsqocfo.caqcfrfxcfgcqo btcHugcSchbacxqucoqgcgqckqeabgcgnfg
fcybexc uesqupcpb ebgcqkcxquechbvqyb.cheqgnbe’pcspcbogsebvxcsocjx
wbbisoat”

.quosfcpgqq.cpgsvv,cnbpsgfgsoa,cfo.cvqqwb.cfgcPys.esafïvqycrsgn
pbfe nsoacbxbpt

“Rnfgcfebcxqucfkefs.cqk?”cnbcqhpbeyb.clusbgvxtc“Gnbcgqrocspcoqgcgnb
 quogextcFo.cbybocsocgnbc quogexcxquc.s.cjbcjqebcnfejcgnfocSc.s.cxqut”

“Nfybcxquciebifeb.cPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof?”

“Oq,cScnfybcoqgcpfs.cfcrqe.cgqcnbecfo.cfjcoqgclusgbc begfsocrnbgnbecpnb
spcfgcnqjbcoqrtcHugcjqpgcvswbvxcpnbcsptcPnbcnfpchuesb.cnbecpgbijqgnbe
gq-.fx:cpnbcspcoqgcvswbvxcgqcaqcyspsgsoacqocpu ncfc.fxtcKqecgnbcgsjbcS
.qo’gcrfogcgqcpibfwcgqcfoxqobcfhqugcsgcfo.cScnfvkcebaebgcnfysoacpiqwbo
gqcxqutcGnbcpvsangbpgcso.sp ebgsqocspcfpchf.cfpchbgefxfvcsocfcgnsoacvswb
gnsptcScvsybcgnbebcsocgnfgcnqupb,crbcfebc qjsoacgqcsgtcGnfg’pcgnbciqegbe
qkcquecnqupb--nbcwoqrpcjbcybexcrbvv;cxqucpbb,cnb’pchqrsoa;cnbcpbbpcS’j
 qjsoacrsgncfcvf.xcfo.coqc.quhgcnbcnfpcoqgs b.cxqueckf bcfvebf.xcfo.cxqu
rsvvchbcavf.cqkcgnfgcskcxqucfebcfkefs.cqkcjbcfo.cpupis squptcBd upb
jxciuggsoacgnsoapcpqc qfepbvxtcScnfybo’gcfckvfgcgqcjxpbvk;cPqkxf
Pbjxqoqyof’pceqqjcspcobdgcgqcjsob--pnbcvq.abpcsocgnbcobdgckvfgtcGnb
rnqvbckvqqecspcvbgcqugcsocvq.asoaptcRnxcfebcxquckesangbob.cvswbcfc nsv.?
FjcScebfvvxcpqcgbeeshvb?”

Pys.esafïvqy’pcvsipcrbebcgrspgb.csocfc qo.bp bo.soacpjsvb;chugcnbcrfpcso
oqcpjsvsoacjqq.tcNspcnbfegcrfpcgneqhhsoacfo.cnbc quv.cp fe bvxchebfgnbt
Nbcpiqwbcefgnbecvqu.cgqc qybecnspcaeqrsoacbd sgbjbogtcHugc.quosfc.s.coqg
oqgs bcgnspcib uvsfecbd sgbjbog,cpnbcrfpcpqcseesgfgb.chxcnspcebjfewcgnfg
pnbcrfpckesangbob.cqkcnsjcvswbcfc nsv.cfo.cgnfgcnbcrfpcpqcgbeeshvbcgq
nbet

“GnquancScwoqrcgnfgcxqucfebcoqgcfcjfotttcqkcnqoque,cScfjcoqgcsocgnb
vbfpgcfkefs.cqkcxqutcVbf.cgnbcrfx,”cpnbcpfs.crsgncfiifebogc qjiqpueb,
hugcnbeckf bcrfpcybexcifvbt

Pys.esafïvqycpgqiib.cfgcPqosf’pceqqjt

“FvvqrcjbcgqcsolusebcrnbgnbecpnbcspcfgcnqjbttttcPnbcspcoqgtcNqr
uokqeguofgb!cHugcScwoqrcpnbcjfxc qjbclusgbcpqqotcSkcpnb’pcaqobcqug,csg
 focqovxchbcgqcpbbcfcvf.xcfhqugcgnbcqeinfoptcGnbsecjqgnbecspc.bf.tttt
S’ybchbbocjb..vsoacfo.cjfwsoacfeefoabjbogpckqecgnbjtcSkcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof
.qbpcoqgc qjbchf wcsocgbocjsougbp,cScrsvvcpbo.cnbecgqcxqu,cgq-.fxcsk
xqucvswbtcGnspcspcjxckvfgtcGnbpbcfebcjxcgrqceqqjptcJf.fjbcEbppvs n,
jxcvfo.vf.x,cnfpcgnbcobdgceqqjtcOqr,cvqqwcgnspcrfxtcScrsvvcpnqrcxqu
jxc nsbkcisb bcqkcbys.bo b:cgnspc.qqeckeqjcjxchb.eqqjcvbf.pcsogqcgrq
ibekb gvxcbjigxceqqjp,crns ncfebcgqcvbgtcNbebcgnbxcfebtttcXqucjupgcvqqw
sogqcgnbjcrsgncpqjbcfggbogsqot”

Pys.esafïvqycq  uisb.cgrqckfsevxcvfeabckueospnb.ceqqjptc.quosfcrfp
vqqwsoacfhqugcnbecjspgeupgkuvvx,chugcpfrcoqgnsoacpib sfvcsocgnb
kueosguebcqeciqpsgsqocqkcgnbceqqjptcXbgcgnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoacgqcqhpbeyb,
kqecsopgfo b,cgnfgcPys.esafïvqy’pckvfgcrfpcbdf gvxchbgrbbocgrqcpbgpcqk
fvjqpgcuosonfhsgb.cfifegjbogptcNspceqqjpcrbebcoqgcbogbeb.c.seb gvx
keqjcgnbcifppfab,chugcgnequancgnbcvfo.vf.x’pcgrqcfvjqpgcbjigxceqqjpt
Uovq wsoacfc.qqecvbf.soacqugcqkcnspchb.eqqj,cPys.esafïvqycpnqrb.c.quosf
gnbcgrqcbjigxceqqjpcgnfgcrbebcgqcvbgtc.quosfcpgqiib.csocgnbc.qqerfx,coqg
woqrsoacrnfgcpnbcrfpc fvvb.cgqcvqqwcuiqo,chugcPys.esafïvqycnfpgbob.cgq
bdivfsot

“Vqqwcnbeb,cfgcgnspcpb qo.cvfeabceqqjtcOqgs bcgnfgc.qqe,csg’pcvq wb.t
Hxcgnbc.qqecpgfo.pcfc nfse,cgnbcqovxcqobcsocgnbcgrqceqqjptcSchequangcsg
keqjcjxceqqjpcpqcfpcgqcvspgbocjqebc qoybosbogvxtcMupgcgnbcqgnbecps.bcqk
gnbc.qqecspcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof’pcgfhvb;cpnbcpfgcgnbebcgfvwsoacgqcEq.sqo
Eqjfoqysg ntcFo.cScpfgcnbebcvspgbosoacqocgrqcpu  bppsybcbybosoap,ckqe
grqcnquepcbf ncgsjb--fo.cqkc quepbcScrfpcfhvbcgqcvbfeocpqjbgnsoa,crnfg
.qcxqucgnsow?”

“Xqucvspgbob.?”

“Xbp,cSc.s.tcOqrc qjbchf wcgqcjxceqqj;crbc fo’gcpsgc.qrocnbebt”

NbchequangcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofchf wcsogqcnspcpsggsoa-eqqjcfo.cqkkbeb.cnbe
fc nfsetcNbcpfgc.qrocfgcgnbcqiiqpsgbcps.bcqkcgnbcgfhvb,cfgcvbfpgcpbybo
kbbgckeqjcnbe,chugcieqhfhvxcgnbebcrfpcgnbcpfjbcavqrcsocnspcbxbpcrns n
nf.cqo bckesangbob.c.quosfcpqcju ntcPnbcpnu..beb.cfo.cqo bcjqebcvqqwb.
fhqugcnbec.spgeupgkuvvxtcSgcrfpcfocsoyqvuogfexcabpgueb;cpnbcbys.bogvx
.s.coqgcrspncgqchbgefxcnbecuobfpsobpptcHugcgnbcpb vu.b.ciqpsgsqocqk
Pys.esafïvqy’pcvq.asoacnf.cpu..bovxcpgeu wcnbetcPnbcrfogb.cgqcfpw
rnbgnbecnspcvfo.vf.xcfgcvbfpgcrbebcfgcnqjb,chugcies.bcwbigcnbeckeqj
fpwsoatcJqebqybe,cpnbcnf.cfoqgnbecgequhvbcsocnbecnbfegcso qjifefhvx
aebfgbecgnfockbfeckqecnbepbvktcPnbcrfpcsocaebfgc.spgebppt

“Nbebcspcxquecvbggbe,”cpnbcpfs.,cvfxsoacsgcqocgnbcgfhvbtc“ focsgchbcgeub
rnfgcxqucresgb?cXqucnsogcfgcfc esjbc qjjsggb.,cxqucpfx,chxcjxcheqgnbet
Xqucnsogcfgcsgcgqqc vbfevx;cxquc.febo’gc.boxcsgcoqrtcScjupgcgbvvcxqu
gnfgcS’.cnbfe.cqkcgnspcpguis.cpgqexchbkqebcxqucreqgbcfo.c.qo’gchbvsbybcf
rqe.cqkcsgtcSg’pcfc.spaupgsoacfo.ces.s uvqupcpupis sqotcScwoqrcgnbcpgqex
fo.crnxcfo.cnqrcsgcrfpcsoybogb.tcXquc focnfybcoqcieqqkptcXqucieqjspb.cgq
ieqybcsgtcPibfw!cHugcvbgcjbcrfeocxqucgnfgcSc.qo’gchbvsbybcxqu!cSc.qo’g
hbvsbybcxqu!”

.quosfcpfs.cgnsp,cpibfwsoacnueesb.vx,cfo.ckqecfocsopgfogcgnbc qvque
eupnb.cgqcnbeckf bt

“Skcxquc.s.o’gchbvsbybcsg,cnqrc quv.cxqucespwc qjsoacfvqobcgqcjxceqqjp?
Rnxcnfybcxquc qjb?cPsjivxckeqjc uesqpsgx?”

“.qo’gcgqejbogcjbtcPibfw,cpibfw!”

“Gnbeb’pcoqc.boxsoacgnfgcxqucfebcfchefybcasevtcUiqocjxcrqe.,cScgnquang
xqucrquv.cnfybcfpwb.cJetcEfzujsnsocgqcbp qegcxqucnbebtcHugcnbcrfpcoqg
rsgncxqucoqecfoxrnbebcobfetcScrfpcqocgnbcvqqw-qugtcSg’pcpisesgb.cqk
xqu,csgcieqybpcxqucrfogb.cgqcpifebcEq.sqocEqjfoqysg ntcHugcbybexgnsoa
spc.sysobcsocxquttttcFhqugcxquecheqgnbe,crnfgcfjcScgqcpfxcgqcxqu?cXqu’yb
mupgcpbbocnsjcxquepbvktcRnfgc.s.cxqucgnsowcqkcnsj?”

“Puebvxcgnfg’pcoqgcgnbcqovxcgnsoacxqucfebchusv.soacqo?”

“Oq,coqgcqocgnfg,chugcqocnspcqrocrqe.ptcNbc fjbcnbebcqocgrqcpu  bppsyb
bybosoapcgqcpbbcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyoftcS’ybcpnqrocxqucrnbebcgnbxcpfgtcNbcjf.b
fckuvvc qokbppsqocgqcnbetcNbcspcfcjue.bebetcNbcwsvvb.cfocqv.crqjfo,cf
ifroheqwbe,crsgncrnqjcnbcnf.cifrob.cgnsoapcnsjpbvktcNbcwsvvb.cnbecpspgbe
gqq,cfcib.vfecrqjfoc fvvb.cVszfybgf,crnqcnfiibob.cgqc qjbcsocrnsvbcnb
rfpcjue.besoacnbecpspgbetcNbcwsvvb.cgnbjcrsgncfocfdbcnbchequangcrsgn
nsjtcNbcjue.beb.cgnbjcgqceqhcgnbjcfo.cnbc.s.ceqhcgnbjtcNbcgqqwcjqobxcfo.
yfesqupcgnsoapttttcNbcgqv.cfvvcgnsp,crqe.ckqecrqe.,cgqcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,
gnbcqovxcibepqocrnqcwoqrpcnspcpb ebgtcHugcpnbcnfpcnf.coqcpnfebchxcrqe.
qec.bb.csocgnbcjue.be;cpnbcrfpcfpcnqeesksb.cfgcsgcfpcxqucfebcoqrtc.qo’g
hbcfodsqup,cpnbcrqo’gchbgefxcnsjt”

“Sgc fooqgchb,”cjuggbeb.c.quosf,crsgncrnsgbcvsiptcPnbcafpib.ckqechebfgnt
“Sgc fooqgchbtcGnbebcrfpcoqgcgnbcpvsangbpgc fupb,coqcpqegcqkcaequo.tttt
Sg’pcfcvsb,cfcvsb!”

“Nbceqhhb.cnbe,cgnfgcrfpcgnbc fupb,cnbcgqqwcjqobxcfo.cgnsoaptcSg’pcgeub
gnfgchxcnspcqrocf.jsppsqocnbcjf.bcoqcupbcqkcgnbcjqobxcqecgnsoap,chugcns.
gnbjcuo.becfcpgqob,crnbebcgnbxcfebcoqrtcHugcgnfgcrfpchb fupbcnbc.feb.
oqgcjfwbcupbcqkcgnbjt”

“Hugcnqrc quv.cnbcpgbfv,ceqh?cNqrc quv.cnbc.ebfjcqkcsg?”c esb.c.quosf,
fo.cpnbcmujib.cuickeqjcgnbc nfsetc“Rnx,cxqucwoqrcnsj,cfo.cxqu’ybcpbbo
nsj,c focnbchbcfcgnsbk?”

Pnbcpbbjb.cgqchbcsjivqesoacPys.esafïvqy;cpnbcnf.cbogsebvxckqeaqggbocnbe
kbfet

“Gnbebcfebcgnqupfo.pcfo.cjsvvsqopcqkc qjhsofgsqopcfo.ciqppshsvsgsbp,
Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoftcFcgnsbkcpgbfvpcfo.cwoqrpcnbcspcfcp quo.ebv,chugcS’yb
nbfe.cqkcfcabogvbjfocrnqcheqwbcqibocgnbcjfsvtcRnqcwoqrp,cybexcvswbvxcnb
gnquangcnbcrfpc.qsoacfcabogvbjfovxcgnsoa!cQkc quepbcScpnquv.coqgcnfyb
hbvsbyb.csgcjxpbvkcskcS’.chbbocgqv.cqkcsgcfpcxqucnfyb,chugcSchbvsbybcjx
qrocbfeptcNbcbdivfsob.cfvvcgnbc fupbpcqkcsgcgqcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcgqq,chug
pnbc.s.coqgchbvsbybcnbecbfepcfgcksepg,cxbgcpnbchbvsbyb.cnbecqrocbxbpcfg
vfpgt”

“Rnfgtttcrbebcgnbc fupbp?”

“Sg’pcfcvqoacpgqex,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoftcNbeb’ptttcnqrcpnfvvcScgbvv
xqu?--Fcgnbqexcqkcfcpqeg,cgnbcpfjbcqobchxcrns ncSckqecsopgfo bc qops.be
gnfgcfcpsoavbcjsp.bb.cspcibejsppshvbcskcgnbcieso sifvcfsjcspcesang,cf
pqvsgfexcreqoa.qsoacfo.cnuo.eb.pcqkcaqq.c.bb.p!cSg’pcafvvsoacgqq,cqk
 quepb,ckqecfcxquoacjfocqkcaskgpcfo.cqyberbbosoacies.bcgqcwoqrcgnfgcsk
nbcnf.,ckqecsopgfo b,cfcifvgexcgnebbcgnqupfo.,cnspcrnqvbc febbe,cnsp
rnqvbckuguebcrquv.chbc.skkbebogvxcpnfib.cfo.cxbgcoqgcgqcnfybcgnfgcgnebb
gnqupfo.tcF..cgqcgnfg,cobeyqupcseesgfhsvsgxckeqjcnuoabe,ckeqjcvq.asoa
socfcnqvb,ckeqjcefap,ckeqjcfcysys.cpbopbcqkcgnbc nfejcqkcnspcpq sfv
iqpsgsqocfo.cnspcpspgbe’pcfo.cjqgnbe’pciqpsgsqocgqqtcFhqybcfvv,cyfosgx,
ies.bcfo.cyfosgx,cgnquancaqq.obppcwoqrpcnbcjfxcnfybcaqq.clufvsgsbp
gqqttttcScfjcoqgchvfjsoacnsj,civbfpbc.qo’gcgnsowcsg;chbps.bp,csg’pcoqg
jxchupsobpptcFcpib sfvcvsggvbcgnbqexc fjbcsocgqq--fcgnbqexcqkcf
pqeg--.sys.soacjfowso.,cxqucpbb,csogqcjfgbesfvcfo.cpuibesqecibepqop,
gnfgcspcibepqopcgqcrnqjcgnbcvfrc.qbpcoqgcfiivxcqrsoacgqcgnbse
puibesqesgx,crnqcjfwbcvfrpckqecgnbcebpgcqkcjfowso.,cgnbcjfgbesfv,cgnfg
sptcSg’pcfvvcesangcfpcfcgnbqex,c_uobcgnéqesbc qjjbcuobcfugeb_tcOfiqvbqo
fggef gb.cnsjcgebjbo.qupvx,cgnfgcsp,crnfgcfkkb gb.cnsjcrfpcgnfgcf
aebfgcjfoxcjbocqkcabosupcnfybcoqgcnbpsgfgb.cfgcreqoa.qsoa,chugcnfyb
qybepgbiib.cgnbcvfrcrsgnqugcgnsowsoacfhqugcsgtcNbcpbbjpcgqcnfybckfo sb.
gnfgcnbcrfpcfcabosupcgqq--gnfgcsp,cnbcrfpc qoyso b.cqkcsgckqecfcgsjbtcNb
nfpcpukkbeb.cfcaebfgc.bfvcfo.cspcpgsvvcpukkbesoackeqjcgnbcs.bfcgnfgcnb
 quv.cjfwbcfcgnbqex,chugcrfpcso fifhvbcqkchqv.vxcqybepgbiisoacgnbcvfr,
fo.cpqcnbcspcoqgcfcjfocqkcabosuptcFo.cgnfg’pcnujsvsfgsoackqecfcxquoacjfo
qkcfoxcies.b,csocquec.fxcbpib sfvvxtttt”

“Hugcebjqepb?cXquc.boxcnsjcfoxcjqefvckbbvsoacgnbo?cSpcnbcvswbcgnfg?”

“Fn,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,cbybexgnsoacspcsocfcju..vbcoqr;coqgcgnfgcsgcrfp
bybecsocybexcaqq.cqe.betcEuppsfopcsocabobefvcfebcheqf.csocgnbsecs.bfp,
Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,cheqf.cvswbcgnbsecvfo.cfo.cbd bb.soavxc.spiqpb.cgq
gnbckfogfpgs ,cgnbc nfqgs tcHugcsg’pcfcjspkqeguobcgqchbcheqf.crsgnqug
fcpib sfvcabosuptc.qcxqucebjbjhbecrnfgcfcvqgcqkcgfvwcrbcnf.cgqabgnbecqo
gnspcpuhmb g,cpsggsoacsocgnbcbybosoapcqocgnbcgbeef bcfkgbecpuiibe?cRnx,
xqucupb.cgqcebieqf ncjbcrsgnchebf.gn!cRnqcwoqrp,cibenfipcrbcrbebcgfvwsoa
fgcgnbcybexcgsjbcrnbocnbcrfpcvxsoacnbebcgnsowsoacqybecnspcivfotcGnbeb
febcoqcpf eb.cgef.sgsqopcfjqoapgcup,cbpib sfvvxcsocgnbcb.u fgb.c vfpp,
Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoftcFgcgnbchbpgcpqjbqobcrsvvcjfwbcgnbjcuicpqjbnqrckqe
nsjpbvkcqugcqkchqqwpcqeckeqjcpqjbcqv.c neqos vbtcHugcgnqpbcfebckqecgnb
jqpgcifegcgnbcvbfeob.cfo.cfvvcqv.ckqabxp,cpqcgnfgcsgcrquv.chbcfvjqpg
svv-heb.csocfcjfocqkcpq sbgxtcXqucwoqrcjxcqisosqopcsocabobefv,cgnquantcS
obybechvfjbcfoxqobtcSc.qcoqgnsoacfgcfvv,cScibepbybebcsocgnfgtcHug
rb’ybcgfvwb.cqkcgnspcjqebcgnfocqo bchbkqebtcScrfpcpqcnfiixcso.bb.cfpcgq
sogbebpgcxqucsocjxcqisosqopttttcXqucfebcybexcifvb,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoft”

“ScwoqrcnspcgnbqextcScebf.cgnfgcfegs vbcqkcnspcfhqugcjbocgqcrnqjcfvvcsp
ibejsggb.tcEfzujsnsochequangcsgcgqcjbt”

“JetcEfzujsnso?cXquecheqgnbe’pcfegs vb?cSocfcjfafzsob?cSpcgnbebcpu ncfo
fegs vb?cSc.s.o’gcwoqrtcSgcjupgchbcsogbebpgsoatcHugcrnbebcfebcxqucaqsoa,
Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof?”

“ScrfogcgqcpbbcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,”c.quosfcfegs uvfgb.ckfsogvxtc“Nqrc.qcS
aqcgqcnbe?cPnbcnfpc qjbcso,cibenfiptcScjupgcpbbcnbecfgcqo btcIbenfip
pnbttt”

Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofc quv.coqgcksospntcNbechebfgncvsgbefvvxckfsvb.cnbet

“PqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcrsvvcoqgchbchf wcgsvvcosang,cfgcvbfpgcSchbvsbybcoqgt
Pnbcrfpcgqcnfybchbbochf wcfgcqo b,chugcskcoqg,cgnbocpnbcrsvvcoqgchbcso
gsvvclusgbcvfgbt”

“Fn,cgnbocxqucfebcvxsoa!cScpbbtttcxqucrbebcvxsoatttcvxsoacfvvcgnb
gsjbttttcSc.qo’gchbvsbybcxqu!cSc.qo’gchbvsbybcxqu!”c esb.c.quosf,
 qjivbgbvxcvqpsoacnbecnbf.t

Fvjqpgckfsogsoa,cpnbcpfowcqocgqcfc nfsecrns ncPys.esafïvqycjf.bcnfpgbcgq
asybcnbet

“Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,crnfgcspcsg?c qogeqvcxquepbvk!cNbebcspcpqjbcrfgbet
.esowcfcvsggvbtttt”

Nbcpiesowvb.cpqjbcrfgbecqybecnbetc.quosfcpnu..beb.cfo.c fjbcgqcnbepbvkt

“Sgcnfpcf gb.cysqvbogvx,”cPys.esafïvqycjuggbeb.cgqcnsjpbvk,ckeqrosoat
“Fy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof,c fvjcxquepbvk!cHbvsbybcjb,cnbcnfpckesbo.ptcRbcrsvv
pfybcnsjtcRquv.cxqucvswbcjbcgqcgfwbcnsjcfheqf.?cScnfybcjqobx,cSc focabg
fcgs wbgcsocgnebbc.fxptcFo.cfpckqecgnbcjue.be,cnbcrsvvc.qcfvvcpqegpcqk
aqq.c.bb.pcxbg,cgqcfgqobckqecsgtc fvjcxquepbvktcNbcjfxchb qjbcfcaebfg
jfocxbgtcRbvv,cnqrcfebcxqu?cNqrc.qcxquckbbv?”

“ eubvcjfo!cGqchbcfhvbcgqcmbbecfgcsg!cVbgcjbcaqttt”

“Rnbebcfebcxqucaqsoa?”

“GqcnsjtcRnbebcspcnb?c.qcxqucwoqr?cRnxcspcgnspc.qqecvq wb.?cRbc fjbcso
fgcgnfgc.qqecfo.coqrcsgcspcvq wb.tcRnboc.s.cxqucjfofabcgqcvq wcsg?”

“Rbc quv.o’gchbcpnqugsoacfvvcqybecgnbckvfgcqocpu ncfcpuhmb gtcScfjckfe
keqjcmbbesoa;csg’pcpsjivxcgnfgcS’jcps wcqkcgfvwsoacvswbcgnsptcHugcnqr
 focxqucaqcsocpu ncfcpgfgb?c.qcxqucrfogcgqchbgefxcnsj?cXqucrsvvc.esyb
nsjcgqckuex,cfo.cnbcrsvvcasybcnsjpbvkcuitcVbgcjbcgbvvcxqu,cnbcspcfvebf.x
hbsoacrfg nb.;cgnbxcfebcfvebf.xcqocnspcgef wtcXqucrsvvcpsjivxchbcasysoa
nsjcfrfxtcRfsgcfcvsggvb:cScpfrcnsjcfo.crfpcgfvwsoacgqcnsjcmupgcoqrtcNb
 focpgsvvchbcpfyb.tcRfsgcfchsg,cpsgc.qro;cvbgcupcgnsowcsgcqybecgqabgnbet
Scfpwb.cxqucgqc qjbcsocqe.becgqc.sp uppcsgcfvqobcrsgncxqucfo.cgq
 qops.becsgcgnqequanvxtcHugc.qcpsgc.qro!”

“Nqrc focxqucpfybcnsj?c focnbcebfvvxchbcpfyb.?”

.quosfcpfgc.qrotcPys.esafïvqycpfgc.qrochbps.bcnbet

“Sgcfvvc.bibo.pcqocxqu,cqocxqu,cqocxqucfvqob,”cnbchbafocrsgncavqrsoa
bxbp,cfvjqpgcsocfcrnspibecfo.cnfe.vxcfhvbcgqcuggbecgnbcrqe.pckqe
bjqgsqot

.quosfc.ebrchf wckeqjcnsjcsocfvfejtcNbcgqqcrfpcgebjhvsoacfvvcqybet

“Xqutttcqobcrqe.ckeqjcxqu,cfo.cnbcspcpfyb.tcStttcS’vvcpfybcnsjtcScnfyb
jqobxcfo.ckesbo.ptcS’vvcpbo.cnsjcfrfxcfgcqo btcS’vvcabgcfcifppiqeg,
grqcifppiqegp,cqobckqecnsjcfo.cqobckqecjbtcScnfybckesbo.ptttc fifhvb
ibqivbttttcSkcxqucvswb,cS’vvcgfwbcfcifppiqegckqecxqutttckqecxque
jqgnbettttcRnfgc.qcxqucrfogcrsgncEfzujsnso?cScvqybcxqucgqqttttcScvqyb
xquchbxqo.cbybexgnsoattttcVbgcjbcwsppcgnbcnbjcqkcxquec.ebpp,cvbgcjb,cvbg
jbttttcGnbcybexceupgvbcqkcsgcspcgqqcju nckqecjbtcGbvvcjb,c‘.qcgnfg,’
fo.cS’vvc.qcsgtcS’vvc.qcbybexgnsoatcScrsvvc.qcgnbcsjiqppshvbtcRnfgcxqu
hbvsbyb,cScrsvvchbvsbybtcS’vvc.qcfoxgnsoa--foxgnsoa!c.qo’g,c.qo’gcvqqw
fgcjbcvswbcgnfgtc.qcxqucwoqrcgnfgcxqucfebcwsvvsoacjb?ttt”

NbcrfpcfvjqpgchbasoosoacgqcefybttttcPqjbgnsoacpbbjb.cpu..bovxcgqcaqcgq
nspcnbf.tc.quosfcmujib.cuicfo.ceupnb.cgqcgnbc.qqet

“Qibocsg!cQibocsg!”cpnbc fvvb.,cpnfwsoacgnbc.qqetc“Qibocsg!cSpcgnbebcoq
qobcgnbeb?”

Pys.esafïvqycaqgcuicfo.c fjbcgqcnsjpbvktcNspcpgsvvcgebjhvsoacvsipcpvqrvx
heqwbcsogqcfocfoaexcjq wsoacpjsvbt

“Gnbebcspcoqcqobcfgcnqjb,”cnbcpfs.clusbgvxcfo.cbjinfgs fvvxtc“Gnb
vfo.vf.xcnfpcaqobcqug,cfo.csg’pcrfpgbcqkcgsjbcgqcpnqugcvswbcgnfgtcXqu
febcqovxcbd sgsoacxquepbvkcupbvbppvxt”

“Rnbebcspcgnbcwbx?cQibocgnbc.qqecfgcqo b,cfgcqo b,chfpbcjfo!”

“Scnfybcvqpgcgnbcwbxcfo.c fooqgckso.csgt”

“Gnspcspcfocqugefab,”c esb.c.quosf,cgueosoacifvbcfpc.bfgntcPnbceupnb.
gqcgnbckuegnbpgc qeobe,crnbebcpnbcjf.bcnfpgbcgqchfees f.bcnbepbvkcrsgncf
vsggvbcgfhvbt

Pnbc.s.coqgcp ebfj,chugcpnbcksdb.cnbecbxbpcqocnbecgqejbogqecfo.crfg nb.
bybexcjqybjbogcnbcjf.bt

Pys.esafïvqycebjfsob.cpgfo.soacfgcgnbcqgnbecbo.cqkcgnbceqqjckf soacnbet
Nbcrfpciqpsgsybvxc qjiqpb.,cfgcvbfpgcsocfiibfefo b,chugcnspckf bcrfp
ifvbcfpchbkqebtcGnbcjq wsoacpjsvbc.s.coqgcvbfybcnspckf bt

“Xqucpiqwbcqkcqugefabcmupgcoqr,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoftcSocgnfgc fpbcxqu
jfxchbcpuebcS’ybcgfwbocjbfpuebptcPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcspcoqgcfgcnqjbtcGnb
Wfibeofujqypcfebckfecfrfx--gnbebcfebcksybcvq wb.ceqqjpchbgrbbotcScfjcfg
vbfpgcgrs bcfpcpgeqoacfpcxqucfebcfo.cScnfybcoqgnsoacgqckbfe,chbps.bpt
Kqecxquc quv.coqgc qjivfsocfkgberfe.ptcXqucpuebvxcrquv.coqgchbcrsvvsoa
f gufvvxcgqchbgefxcxquecheqgnbe?cHbps.bp,coqcqobcrquv.chbvsbybcxqutcNqr
pnquv.cfcasevcnfybc qjbcfvqobcgqcyspsgcfcpqvsgfexcjfocsocnspcvq.asoap?
Pqcgnfgcbybocskcxquc.qcpf esks bcxquecheqgnbe,cxquc quv.cieqybcoqgnsoat
Sgcspcybexc.skks uvgcgqcieqybcfocfppfuvg,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoft”

“P quo.ebv!”crnspibeb.c.quosfcso.saofogvxt

“Fpcxqucvswb,chugcqhpbeybcScrfpcqovxcpibfwsoachxcrfxcqkcfcabobefv
ieqiqpsgsqotcSg’pcjxcibepqofvc qoys gsqocgnfgcxqucfebcibekb gvx
esang--ysqvbo bcspcnfgbkuvtcScqovxcpiqwbcgqcpnqrcxqucgnfgcxqucobb.cnfyb
oqcebjqepbcbybocsktttcxqucrbebcrsvvsoacgqcpfybcxquecheqgnbecqkcxque
qrocf  qe.,cfpcScpuaabpgcgqcxqutcXqucrquv.chbcpsjivxcpuhjsggsoacgq
 se ujpgfo bp,cgqcysqvbo b,csockf g,cskcrbcjupgcupbcgnfgcrqe.tcGnsow
fhqugcsgtcXquecheqgnbe’pcfo.cxquecjqgnbe’pckfgbcfebcsocxquecnfo.ptcS
rsvvchbcxquecpvfybtttcfvvcjxcvskbtttcScrsvvcrfsgcnbebt”

Pys.esafïvqycpfgc.qrocqocgnbcpqkfcfhqugcbsangcpgbipckeqjc.quosftcPnbcnf.
oqgcgnbcpvsangbpgc.quhgcoqrcqkcnspcuohbo.soac.bgbejsofgsqotcHbps.bp,cpnb
wobrcnsjtcPu..bovxcpnbciuvvb.cqugcqkcnbeciq wbgcfcebyqvybe,c q wb.csg
fo.cvfs.csgcsocnbecnfo.cqocgnbcgfhvbtcPys.esafïvqycmujib.cuit

“Fnf!cPqcgnfg’pcsg,cspcsg?”cnbc esb.,cpueiespb.chugcpjsvsoacjfvs squpvxt
“Rbvv,cgnfgc qjivbgbvxcfvgbepcgnbcfpib gcqkcfkkfseptcXqu’ybcjf.bcgnsoap
rqo.bekuvvxcbfpsbeckqecjb,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyoftcHugcrnbebc.s.cxqucabgcgnb
ebyqvybe?cRfpcsgcJetcEfzujsnso?cRnx,csg’pcjxcebyqvybe,cfocqv.ckesbo.!
Fo.cnqrcS’ybcnuogb.ckqecsg!cGnbcpnqqgsoacvbppqopcS’ybcasybocxqucsocgnb
 quogexcnfybcoqgchbbocgneqrocfrfxt”

“Sg’pcoqgcxquecebyqvybe,csgchbvqoab.cgqcJfekfcIbgeqyof,crnqjcxqucwsvvb.,
rebg n!cGnbebcrfpcoqgnsoacqkcxquepcsocnbecnqupbtcScgqqwcsgcrnbocSchbafo
gqcpupib gcrnfgcxqucrbebc fifhvbcqktcSkcxquc.febcgqcf.yfo bcqobcpgbi,cS
prbfecS’vvcwsvvcxqut”cPnbcrfpckefogs t

“Hugcxquecheqgnbe?cScfpwckeqjc uesqpsgx,”cpfs.cPys.esafïvqy,cpgsvv
pgfo.soacrnbebcnbcrfpt

“Sokqej,cskcxqucrfogcgq!c.qo’gcpgse!c.qo’gc qjbcobfebe!cS’vvcpnqqg!cXqu
iqspqob.cxquecrskb,cScwoqr;cxqucfebcfcjue.bebecxquepbvk!”cPnbcnbv.cgnb
ebyqvybecebf.xt

“FebcxqucpqciqpsgsybcSciqspqob.cJfekfcIbgeqyof?”

“Xquc.s.!cXqucnsogb.csgcxquepbvk;cxqucgfvwb.cgqcjbcqkciqspqottttcScwoqr
xqucrbogcgqcabgcsgtttcxqucnf.csgcsocebf.sobppttttcSgcrfpcxquec.qsoatttt
Sgcjupgcnfybchbbocxquec.qsoattttcP quo.ebv!”

“Bybocskcgnfgcrbebcgeub,csgcrquv.cnfybchbbockqecxquecpfwbtttcxqucrquv.
nfybchbbocgnbc fupbt”

“Xqucfebcvxsoa!cScnfgb.cxqucfvrfxp,cfvrfxptttt”

“Qnq,cFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyof!cXqucpbbjcgqcnfybckqeaqggbocnqrcxqucpqkgbob.
gqcjbcsocgnbcnbfgcqkcieqifafo.ftcScpfrcsgcsocxquecbxbptc.qcxqucebjbjhbe
gnfgcjqqovsangcosang,crnbocgnbcosangsoafvbcrfpcpsoasoa?”

“Gnfg’pcfcvsb,”cgnbebcrfpcfckvfpncqkckuexcsoc.quosf’pcbxbp,c“gnfg’pcf
vsbcfo.cfcvshbv!”

“Fcvsb?cRbvv,cskcxqucvswb,csg’pcfcvsbtcScjf.bcsgcuitcRqjbocquangcoqg
gqchbcebjso.b.cqkcpu ncgnsoap,”cnbcpjsvb.tc“Scwoqrcxqucrsvvcpnqqg,cxqu
iebggxcrsv.c ebfguebtcRbvv,cpnqqgcfrfx!”

.quosfcefspb.cgnbcebyqvybe,cfo.c.bf.vxcifvb,cafzb.cfgcnsj,cjbfpuesoacgnb
.spgfo bcfo.cfrfsgsoacgnbcksepgcjqybjbogcqocnspcifegtcNbecvqrbecvsicrfp
rnsgbcfo.clusybesoacfo.cnbechsachvf wcbxbpckvfpnb.cvswbcksebtcNbcnf.
obybecpbbocnbecpqcnfo.pqjbtcGnbcksebcavqrsoacsocnbecbxbpcfgcgnbcjqjbog
pnbcefspb.cgnbcebyqvybecpbbjb.cgqcwso.vbcnsjcfo.cgnbebcrfpcfcifoacqk
foauspncsocnspcnbfegtcNbcgqqwcfcpgbickqerfe.cfo.cfcpnqgcefoacqugtcGnb
huvvbgcaefzb.cnspcnfsecfo.ckvbrcsogqcgnbcrfvvchbnso.tcNbcpgqq.cpgsvvcfo.
vfuanb.cpqkgvxt

“GnbcrfpicnfpcpguoacjbtcPnbcfsjb.cpgefsangcfgcjxcnbf.tcRnfg’pcgnsp?
Hvqq.?”cnbciuvvb.cqugcnspcnfo.wbe nsbkcgqcrsibcgnbchvqq.,crns nckvqrb.
socfcgnsocpgebfjc.qrocnspcesangcgbjivbtcGnbchuvvbgcpbbjb.cgqcnfybcmupg
aefzb.cgnbcpwsot

.quosfcvqrbeb.cgnbcebyqvybecfo.cvqqwb.cfgcPys.esafïvqycoqgcpqcju ncso
gbeeqecfpcsocfcpqegcqkcrsv.cfjfzbjbogtcPnbcpbbjb.coqgcgqcuo.bepgfo.crnfg
pnbcrfpc.qsoacfo.crnfgcrfpcaqsoacqot

“Rbvv,cxqucjsppb.!cKsebcfafso,cS’vvcrfsg,”cpfs.cPys.esafïvqycpqkgvx,
pgsvvcpjsvsoa,chugcavqqjsvxtc“Skcxqucaqcqocvswbcgnfg,cScpnfvvcnfybcgsjb
gqcpbszbcxquchbkqebcxquc q wcfafsot”

.quosfcpgfegb.,clus wvxc q wb.cgnbcispgqvcfo.cfafsocefspb.csgt

“Vbgcjbchb,”cpnbc esb.csoc.bpifsetc“ScprbfecS’vvcpnqqgcfafsotcStttcS’vv
wsvvcxqut”

“Rbvvtttcfgcgnebbcif bpcxquc focnfe.vxcnbvicsgtcHugcskcxquc.qo’gttt
gnbot”cNspcbxbpckvfpnb.cfo.cnbcgqqwcgrqcpgbipckqerfe.tc.quosfcpnqg
fafso:csgcjsppb.cksebt

“Xqucnfybo’gcvqf.b.csgcieqibevxtcObybecjso.,cxqucnfybcfoqgnbec nfeab
gnbebtcAbgcsgcebf.x,cS’vvcrfsgt”

Nbcpgqq.ckf soacnbe,cgrqcif bpcfrfx,crfsgsoacfo.cafzsoacfgcnbecrsgncrsv.
.bgbejsofgsqo,crsgnckbybespnvxcifppsqofgb,cpguhhqeo,cpbgcbxbptc.quosf
pfrcgnfgcnbcrquv.cpqqobec.sbcgnfocvbgcnbecaqtc“Fo.tttcoqr,cqkc quepbcpnb
rquv.cwsvvcnsj,cfgcgrqcif bp!”cPu..bovxcpnbckvuoacfrfxcgnbcebyqvybet

“Pnb’pc.eqiib.csg!”cpfs.cPys.esafïvqycrsgncpueiespb,cfo.cnbc.ebrcfc.bbi
hebfgntcFcrbsangcpbbjb.cgqcnfybceqvvb.ckeqjcnspcnbfeg--ibenfipcoqgcqovx
gnbckbfecqkc.bfgn;cso.bb.cnbcjfxcp fe bvxcnfybckbvgcsgcfgcgnfgcjqjbogt
Sgcrfpcgnbc.bvsybefo bckeqjcfoqgnbeckbbvsoa,c.fewbecfo.cjqebchsggbe,
rns ncnbc quv.coqgcnsjpbvkcnfybc.bksob.t

Nbcrbogcgqc.quosfcfo.cabogvxciugcnspcfejcequo.cnbecrfspgtcPnbc.s.coqg
ebpspg,chug,cgebjhvsoacvswbcfcvbfk,cvqqwb.cfgcnsjcrsgncpuiivsfogcbxbpt
Nbcgesb.cgqcpfxcpqjbgnsoa,chugcnspcvsipcjqyb.crsgnqugchbsoacfhvbcgq
uggbecfcpquo.t

“Vbgcjbcaq,”c.quosfcsjivqeb.tcPys.esafïvqycpnu..beb.tcNbecyqs bcoqrcrfp
lusgbc.skkbebogt

“Gnbocxquc.qo’gcvqybcjb?”cnbcfpwb.cpqkgvxtc.quosfcpnqqwcnbecnbf.t

“Fo.tttcfo.cxquc fo’g?cObybe?”cnbcrnspibeb.csoc.bpifset

“Obybe!”

Gnbebckqvvqrb.cfcjqjbogcqkcgbeeshvb,c.ujhcpgeuaavbcsocgnbcnbfegcqk
Pys.esafïvqytcNbcvqqwb.cfgcnbecrsgncfocso.bp eshfhvbcafzbtcPu..bovx
nbcrsgn.ebrcnspcfej,cgueob.clus wvxcgqcgnbcrso.qrcfo.cpgqq.ckf soacsgt
Foqgnbecjqjbogcifppb.t

“Nbeb’pcgnbcwbxt”

Nbcgqqwcsgcqugcqkcgnbcvbkgciq wbgcqkcnspc qfgcfo.cvfs.csgcqocgnbcgfhvb
hbnso.cnsj,crsgnqugcgueosoacqecvqqwsoacfgc.quosft

“Gfwbcsg!cJfwbcnfpgb!”

Nbcvqqwb.cpguhhqeovxcqugcqkcgnbcrso.qrtc.quosfcrbogcuicgqcgnbcgfhvbcgq
gfwbcgnbcwbxt

“Jfwbcnfpgb!cJfwbcnfpgb!”cebibfgb.cPys.esafïvqy,cpgsvvcrsgnqugcgueosoa
qecjqysoatcHugcgnbebcpbbjb.cfcgbeeshvbcpsaosks fo bcsocgnbcgqobcqkcgnfg
“jfwbcnfpgbt”

.quosfcuo.bepgqq.csg,cpofg nb.cuicgnbcwbx,ckvbrcgqcgnbc.qqe,cuovq wb.csg
lus wvxcfo.ceupnb.cqugcqkcgnbceqqjtcFcjsougbcvfgbe,chbps.bcnbepbvk,cpnb
efocqugcqocgqcgnbc fofvchfowcsocgnbc.seb gsqocqkcDtcHes.abt

Pys.esafïvqycebjfsob.cgnebbcjsougbpcpgfo.soacfgcgnbcrso.qrtcFgcvfpgcnb
pvqrvxcgueob.,cvqqwb.cfhqugcnsjcfo.cifppb.cnspcnfo.cqybecnspckqebnbf.tcF
pgefoabcpjsvbc qogqegb.cnspckf b,cfcisgskuv,cpf.,crbfwcpjsvb,cfcpjsvbcqk
.bpifsetcGnbchvqq.,crns ncrfpcfvebf.xcabggsoac.ex,cpjbfeb.cnspcnfo.t
Nbcvqqwb.cfoaesvxcfgcsg,cgnbocrbggb.cfcgqrbvcfo.crfpnb.cnspcgbjivbt
Gnbcebyqvybecrns nc.quosfcnf.ckvuoacfrfxcvfxcobfecgnbc.qqecfo.cpu..bovx
 fuangcnspcbxbtcNbcis wb.csgcuicfo.cbdfjsob.csgtcSgcrfpcfcvsggvbciq wbg
gnebb-hfeebvcebyqvybecqkcqv.-kfpnsqob.c qopgeu gsqotcGnbebcrbebcpgsvv
grqc nfeabpcfo.cqobc fipuvbcvbkgcsocsgtcSgc quv.chbckseb.cfafsotcNb
gnquangcfcvsggvb,ciugcgnbcebyqvybecsocnspciq wbg,cgqqwcnspcnfgcfo.crbog
qugt



 NFIGBEcYS

Nbcpibogcgnfgcbybosoacgsvvcgbocq’ vq wcaqsoackeqjcqobcvqrcnfuogcgq
foqgnbetcWfgsfcgqqcgueob.cuicfo.cpfoacfoqgnbecauggbecpqoa,cnqrcfc begfso

“ysvvfsocfo.cgxefog,”

“hbafocwsppsoacWfgsft”

Pys.esafïvqycgebfgb.cWfgsfcfo.cgnbcqeafo-aeso.becfo.cpqjbcpsoabepcfo.
gnbcrfsgbepcfo.cgrqcvsggvbc vbewptcNbcrfpcifegs uvfevxc.efrocgqcgnbpb
 vbewpchxcgnbckf gcgnfgcgnbxchqgncnf.c eqqwb.coqpbp,cqobchbogcgqcgnb
vbkgcfo.cgnbcqgnbecgqcgnbcesangtcGnbxcgqqwcnsjcksofvvxcgqcfcivbfpueb
afe.bo,crnbebcnbcifs.ckqecgnbsecbogefo btcGnbebcrfpcqobcvfowx
gnebb-xbfe-qv.cisob-gebbcfo.cgnebbchupnbpcsocgnbcafe.bo,chbps.bpcf
“Yfudnfvv,”crns ncrfpcsocebfvsgxcfc.esowsoa-hfecrnbebcgbfcgqqcrfp
pbeyb.,cfo.cgnbebcrbebcfckbrcaebbocgfhvbpcfo.c nfsepcpgfo.soacequo.csgt
Fc nqeupcqkcrebg nb.cpsoabepcfo.cfc.euowbochugcbd bb.soavxc.biebppb.
Abejfoc vqrockeqjcJuos ncrsgncfceb.coqpbcbogbegfsob.cgnbciuhvs tcGnb
 vbewpclufeebvvb.crsgncpqjbcqgnbec vbewpcfo.cfcksangcpbbjb.csjjsobogt
Pys.esafïvqycrfpc nqpbocgqc.b s.bcgnbc.spiugbtcNbcvspgbob.cgqcgnbjckqe
fclufegbecqkcfocnque,chugcgnbxcpnqugb.cpqcvqu.cgnfgcgnbebcrfpcoq
iqppshsvsgxcqkcuo.bepgfo.soacgnbjtcGnbcqovxckf gcgnfgcpbbjb.c begfsocrfp
gnfgcqobcqkcgnbjcnf.cpgqvbocpqjbgnsoacfo.cnf.cbybocpu  bb.b.cso
pbvvsoacsgcqocgnbcpiqgcgqcfcMbr,chugcrquv.coqgcpnfebcgnbcpiqsvcrsgncnsp
 qjifosqotcKsofvvxcsgcfiibfeb.cgnfgcgnbcpgqvbocqhmb gcrfpcfcgbfpiqqo
hbvqoasoacgqcgnbcYfudnfvvtcSgcrfpcjsppb.cfo.cgnbcfkkfsechbafocgqcpbbj
gequhvbpqjbtcPys.esafïvqycifs.ckqecgnbcpiqqo,caqgcui,cfo.crfvwb.cqugcqk
gnbcafe.botcSgcrfpcfhqugcpsdcq’ vq wtcNbcnf.coqgc.euowcfc.eqicqkcrsob
fvvcgnspcgsjbcfo.cnf.cqe.beb.cgbfcjqebckqecgnbcpfwbcqkcfiibfefo bpcgnfo
foxgnsoat

Sgcrfpcfc.fewcfo.cpgskvsoacbybosoatcGnebfgbosoacpgqej- vqu.pc fjbcqybe
gnbcpwxcfhqugcgbocq’ vq wtcGnbebcrfpcfc vficqkcgnuo.be,cfo.cgnbcefso
 fjbc.qrocvswbcfcrfgbekfvvtcGnbcrfgbeckbvvcoqgcsoc.eqip,chugchbfgcqocgnb
bfegncsocpgebfjptcGnbebcrbebckvfpnbpcqkcvsangosoacbybexcjsougbcfo.cbf n
kvfpncvfpgb.crnsvbcqobc quv.c quogcksybt

.ebo nb.cgqcgnbcpwso,cnbcrbogcnqjb,cvq wb.cnsjpbvkcso,cqibob.cgnb
huebfu,cgqqwcqugcfvvcnspcjqobxcfo.cgqebcuicgrqcqecgnebbcifibeptcGnbo,
iuggsoacgnbcjqobxcsocnspciq wbg,cnbcrfpcfhqugcgqc nfoabcnspc vqgnbp,
hug,cvqqwsoacqugcqkcgnbcrso.qrcfo.cvspgbosoacgqcgnbcgnuo.becfo.cgnb
efso,cnbcafybcuicgnbcs.bf,cgqqwcuicnspcnfgcfo.crbogcqugcqkcgnbceqqj
rsgnqugcvq wsoacgnbc.qqetcNbcrbogcpgefsangcgqcPqosftcPnbcrfpcfgcnqjbt

Pnbcrfpcoqgcfvqob:cgnbckquecWfibeofujqyc nsv.ebocrbebcrsgncnbetcPnb
rfpcasysoacgnbjcgbftcPnbceb bsyb.cPys.esafïvqycsocebpib gkuvcpsvbo b,
vqqwsoacrqo.besoavxcfgcnspcpqfwsoac vqgnbptcGnbc nsv.ebocfvvcefocfrfxcfg
qo bcsocso.bp eshfhvbcgbeeqet

Pys.esafïvqycpfgc.qrocfgcgnbcgfhvbcfo.cfpwb.cPqosfcgqcpsgchbps.bcnsjt
Pnbcgsjs.vxciebifeb.cgqcvspgbot

“ScjfxchbcaqsoacgqcFjbes f,cPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,”cpfs.cPys.esafïvqy,c“fo.
fpcScfjcieqhfhvxcpbbsoacxquckqecgnbcvfpgcgsjb,cScnfybc qjbcgqcjfwbcpqjb
feefoabjbogptcRbvv,c.s.cxqucpbbcgnbcvf.xcgq-.fx?cScwoqrcrnfgcpnbcpfs.cgq
xqu,cxqucobb.coqgcgbvvcjbt”c(Pqosfcjf.bcfcjqybjbogcfo.chvupnb.t)c“Gnqpb
ibqivbcnfybcgnbsecqrocrfxcqkc.qsoacgnsoaptcFpcgqcxquecpspgbepcfo.cxque
heqgnbe,cgnbxcfebcebfvvxcieqys.b.ckqecfo.cgnbcjqobxcfppsaob.cgqcgnbj
S’ybciugcsogqcpfkbcwbbisoacfo.cnfybceb bsyb.cf woqrvb.ajbogptcXqucnf.
hbggbecgfwbc nfeabcqkcgnbceb bsigp,csoc fpbcfoxgnsoacnfiiboptcNbeb,cgfwb
gnbj!cRbvvcoqr,cgnfg’pcpbggvb.tcNbebcfebcgnebbc5-ibe- bogchqo.pcgqcgnb
yfvubcqkcgnebbcgnqupfo.cequhvbptcGfwbcgnqpbckqecxquepbvk,cbogsebvxckqe
xquepbvk,cfo.cvbgcgnfgchbcpges gvxchbgrbbocquepbvybp,cpqcgnfgcoqcqob
woqrpcqkcsg,crnfgbybecxqucnbfetcXqucrsvvcobb.cgnbcjqobx,ckqecgqcaqcqo
vsysoacsocgnbcqv.crfx,cPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cspchf.,cfo.chbps.bpcgnbebcspcoq
obb.ckqecsgcoqrt”

“Scfjcpqcju ncso.bhgb.cgqcxqu,cfo.cpqcfebcgnbc nsv.ebocfo.cjx
pgbijqgnbe,”cpfs.cPqosfcnueesb.vx,c“fo.cskcS’ybcpfs.cpqcvsggvbtttcivbfpb
.qo’gc qops.bettt”

“Gnfg’pcboquan!cgnfg’pcboquan!”

“Hugcfpckqecgnbcjqobx,cFewf.xcSyfoqysg n,cScfjcybexcaefgbkuvcgqcxqu,
hugcSc.qo’gcobb.csgcoqrtcSc focfvrfxpcbfeocjxcqrocvsysoatc.qo’gcgnsowcjb
uoaefgbkuvtcSkcxqucfebcpqc nfesgfhvb,cgnfgcjqobxtttt”

“Sg’pckqecxqu,ckqecxqu,cPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cfo.civbfpbc.qo’gcrfpgbcrqe.p
qybecsgtcScnfybo’gcgsjbckqecsgtcXqucrsvvcrfogcsgtcEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n
nfpcgrqcfvgbeofgsybp:cfchuvvbgcsocgnbchefsocqecPshbesft”c(Pqosfcvqqwb.
rsv.vxcfgcnsj,cfo.cpgfegb.t)c“.qo’gchbcuobfpx,cScwoqrcfvvcfhqugcsgckeqj
nsjpbvkcfo.cScfjcoqgcfcaqppsi;cScrqo’gcgbvvcfoxqobtcSgcrfpcaqq.cf.ys b
rnbocxqucgqv.cnsjcgqcasybcnsjpbvkcuicfo.c qokbpptcSgcrquv.chbcju n
hbggbeckqecnsjtcRbvv,cskcsgcgueopcqugcgqchbcPshbesf,cnbcrsvvcaqcfo.
xqucrsvvckqvvqrcnsjtcGnfg’pcpq,cspo’gcsg?cFo.cskcpq,cxqu’vvcobb.cjqobxt
Xqu’vvcobb.csgckqecnsj,c.qcxqucuo.bepgfo.?cAsysoacsgcgqcxqucspcgnbcpfjb
fpcjxcasysoacsgcgqcnsjtcHbps.bp,cxqucieqjspb.cFjfvsfcSyfoqyofcgqcifx
rnfg’pcqrsoatcScnbfe.cxqutcNqrc focxqucuo.begfwbcpu ncqhvsafgsqopcpq
nbb.vbppvx,cPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof?cSgcrfpcWfgbesofcSyfoqyof’pc.bhgcfo.coqg
xquep,cpqcxqucquangcoqgcgqcnfybcgfwbocfoxcoqgs bcqkcgnbcAbejfocrqjfot
Xquc fo’gcabgcgnequancgnbcrqev.cvswbcgnfgtcSkcxqucfebcbybeclubpgsqob.
fhqugcjb--gq-jqeeqrcqecgnbc.fxcfkgbecxqucrsvvchbcfpwb.--.qo’gcpfx
foxgnsoacfhqugcjxc qjsoacgqcpbbcxqucoqrcfo.c.qo’gcpnqrcgnbcjqobxcgq
foxqobcqecpfxcfcrqe.cfhqugcsgtcRbvv,coqrcaqq.-hxbt”c(Nbcaqgcuit)c“Jx
aebbgsoapcgqcEq.sqocEqjfoqysg ntcHxcgnbcrfx,cxqu’.chbggbeciugcgnbcjqobx
kqecgnbciebpbogcsocJetcEfzujsnso’pcwbbisoatcXqucwoqrcJetcEfzujsnso?cQk
 quepbcxquc.qtcNb’pcoqgcfchf.ckbvvqrtcGfwbcsgcgqcnsjcgq-jqeeqrcqettt
rnbocgnbcgsjbc qjbptcFo.cgsvvcgnbo,cns.bcsgc febkuvvxt”

Pqosfcgqqcmujib.cuickeqjcnbec nfsecfo.cvqqwb.csoc.spjfxcfgcPys.esafïvqyt
Pnbcvqoab.cgqcpibfw,cgqcfpwcfclubpgsqo,chugckqecgnbcksepgcjqjbogpcpnb
.s.coqgc.febcfo.c.s.coqgcwoqrcnqrcgqchbasot

“Nqrc focxqutttcnqrc focxquchbcaqsoacoqr,csocpu ncefso?”

“Rnx,chbcpgfegsoackqecFjbes f,cfo.chbcpgqiib.chxcefso!cNf,cnf!cAqq.-hxb,
PqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cjxc.bfe!cVsybcfo.cvsybcvqoa,cxqucrsvvchbcqkcupbcgq
qgnbeptcHxcgnbcrfxtttcgbvvcJetcEfzujsnsocScpbo.cjxcaebbgsoapcgqcnsjt
GbvvcnsjcFewf.xcSyfoqysg ncPys.esafïvqycpbo.pcnspcaebbgsoaptcHbcpueb
gqt”

Nbcrbogcqug,cvbfysoacPqosfcsocfcpgfgbcqkcrqo.besoacfodsbgxcfo.cyfaub
fiiebnbopsqot

Sgcfiibfeb.cfkgberfe.pcgnfgcqocgnbcpfjbcbybosoa,cfgcgrbogxcifpgcbvbybo,
nbcjf.bcfoqgnbecybexcb  boges cfo.cuobdib gb.cyspsgtcGnbcefsocpgsvv
ibepspgb.tc.ebo nb.cgqcgnbcpwso,cnbcrfvwb.csogqcgnbcvsggvbckvfgcrnbeb
gnbcifebogpcqkcnspchbgeqgnb.cvsyb.,csocGnse.cPgebbgcsocYfppsvxbypwx
Spvfo.tcNbcwoq wb.cpqjbcgsjbchbkqebcnbcrfpcf.jsggb.,cfo.cnspcyspsg
fgcksepgc fupb.caebfgcibeguehfgsqo;chugcPys.esafïvqyc quv.chb
ybexckfp sofgsoacrnbocnbcvswb.,cpqcgnfgcgnbcksepg,cfo.cso.bb.cybex
sogbvvsabogcpuejspbcqkcgnbcpbopshvbcifebogpcgnfgcPys.esafïvqycnf.
ieqhfhvxcnf.cpqcju ncgqc.esowcgnfgcnbc.s.coqgcwoqrcrnfgcnbcrfpc.qsoa
yfospnb.csjjb.sfgbvxtcGnbc.b ebisgckfgnbecrfpcrnbbvb.csocgqcpbb
Pys.esafïvqychxcgnbcgbo.becfo.cpbopshvbcjqgnbe,crnqcfpcupufvchbafocgnb
 qoybepfgsqocrsgncyfesqupcseebvbyfogclubpgsqoptcPnbcobybecfpwb.cfc.seb g
lubpgsqo,chugchbafochxcpjsvsoacfo.ceuhhsoacnbecnfo.pcfo.cgnbo,cskcpnb
rbebcqhvsab.cgqcfp begfsocpqjbgnsoa--kqecsopgfo b,crnbocPys.esafïvqy
rquv.cvswbcgqcnfybcgnbcrb..soa--pnbcrquv.chbasochxcsogbebpgb.cfo.
fvjqpgcbfabeclubpgsqopcfhqugcIfespcfo.cgnbc quegcvskbcgnbeb,cfo.cqovx
hxc.baebbpchequangcgnbc qoybepfgsqocequo.cgqcGnse.cPgebbgtcQocqgnbe
q  fpsqopcgnspcnf.cqkc quepbchbbocybexcsjiebppsyb,chugcgnspcgsjbcFewf.x
Syfoqysg ncpbbjb.cifegs uvfevxcsjifgsbog,cfo.csopspgb.cqocpbbsoacnsp
hbgeqgnb.cfgcqo b,cgnquancnbcnf.chbbocsokqejb.,cgqchbasocrsgn,cgnfgcpnb
nf.cfvebf.xcaqobcgqchb.tcGnbcasevcqkc quepbcfiibfeb.t

Pys.esafïvqycsokqejb.cnbecfgcqo bcgnfgcnbcrfpcqhvsab.chxcybexcsjiqegfog
fkkfsepcgqcvbfybcIbgbephueackqecfcgsjb,cfo.cgnbebkqebchequangcnbe
kskgbbocgnqupfo.cequhvbpcfo.chbaab.cnbecf  bigcgnbjcfpcfciebpbogckeqj
nsj,cfpcnbcnf.cvqoachbbocsogbo.soacgqcjfwbcnbecgnspcgeskvsoaciebpbog
hbkqebcgnbsecrb..soatcGnbcvqas fvc qoob gsqocqkcgnbciebpbogcrsgncnsp
sjjb.sfgbc.bifeguebcfo.cgnbcfhpqvugbcob bppsgxcqkcyspsgsoacgnbjckqecgnfg
iueiqpbcsociquesoacefsocfgcjs.osangcrfpcoqgcjf.bc vbfetcHugcsgcfvvcrbog
qkkcybexcrbvv;cbybocgnbcsobysgfhvbcbmf uvfgsqopcqkcrqo.becfo.cebaebg,
gnbcsobysgfhvbclubpgsqopcrbebcbdgefqe.sofesvxckbrcfo.cebpgefsob.tcQocgnb
qgnbecnfo.,cgnbcaefgsgu.bcbdiebppb.crfpcjqpgcavqrsoacfo.crfpcebsokqe b.
hxcgbfepckeqjcgnbcjqpgcpbopshvbcqkcjqgnbeptcPys.esafïvqycaqgcui,
vfuanb.,cwsppb.cnspchbgeqgnb.,cifggb.cnbec nbbw,c.b vfeb.cnbcrquv.cpqqo
 qjbchf w,cfo.coqgs soacsocnbecbxbp,cgqabgnbecrsgnc nsv.spnc uesqpsgx,cf
pqegcqkcbfeobpgc.ujhcsolusex,cebkvb gb.cfo.cwsppb.cnbecfafso,cgnquan
nbckbvgcpso bebcfoabecsorfe.vxcfgcgnbcgnquangcgnfgcnspciebpbogcrquv.chb
sjjb.sfgbvxcvq wb.cuicsocgnbcwbbisoacqkcgnbcjqpgcpbopshvbcqkcjqgnbeptcNb
rbogcfrfx,cvbfysoacgnbjcfvvcsocfcpgfgbcqkcbdgefqe.sofexcbd sgbjbog,chug
gnbcgbo.becjfjjf,cpibfwsoaclusbgvxcsocfcnfvkcrnspibe,cpbggvb.cpqjbcqk
gnbcjqpgcsjiqegfogcqkcgnbsec.quhgp,c qo vu.soacgnfgcPys.esafïvqycrfp
fcaebfgcjfo,cfcjfocqkcaebfgcfkkfsepcfo.c qoob gsqopcfo.cqkcaebfg
rbfvgn--gnbebcrfpcoqcwoqrsoacrnfgcnbcnf.csocnspcjso.tcNbcrquv.cpgfeg
qkkcqocfcmqueobxcfo.casybcfrfxcjqobxcmupgcfpcgnbckfo xcgqqwcnsj,cpqcgnfg
gnbebcrfpcoqgnsoacpueiespsoacfhqugcsgtcQkc quepbcsgcrfpcpgefoabcgnfgcnb
rfpcrbgcgnequan,chugcBoavspnjbo,ckqecsopgfo b,cfebcbybocjqebcb  boges ,
fo.cfvvcgnbpbcibqivbcqkcnsancpq sbgxc.s.o’gcgnsowcqkcrnfgcrfpcpfs.cqk
gnbjcfo.c.s.o’gcpgfo.cqoc bebjqoxtcIqppshvx,cso.bb.,cnbc fjbcvswbcgnfg
qociueiqpbcgqcpnqrcgnfgcnbcrfpcoqgcfkefs.cqkcfoxqobtcFhqybcfvv,coqgcf
rqe.cpnquv.chbcpfs.cfhqugcsg,ckqecAq.cwoqrpcrnfgcjsangc qjbcqkcsg,cfo.
gnbcjqobxcjupgchbcvq wb.cui,cfo.csgcrfpcjqpgckqeguofgbcgnfgcKb.qpxf,cgnb
 qqw,cnf.coqgcvbkgcgnbcwsg nbotcFo.cfhqybcfvvcoqgcfcrqe.cjupgchbcpfs.
gqcgnfgcqv.c fg,cJf.fjbcEbppvs n,cfo.cpqcqocfo.cpqcqotcGnbxcpfgcui
rnspibesoacgsvvcgrqcq’ vq w,chugcgnbcasevcrbogcgqchb.cju ncbfevsbe,
fjfzb.cfo.cefgnbecpqeeqrkuvt

Pys.esafïvqycjbfornsvb,cbdf gvxcfgcjs.osang,c eqppb.cgnbches.abcqocgnb
rfxchf wcgqcgnbcjfsovfo.tcGnbcefsocnf.c bfpb.cfo.cgnbebcrfpcfceqfesoa
rso.tcNbchbafocpnsybesoa,cfo.ckqecqobcjqjbogcnbcafzb.cfgcgnbchvf w
rfgbepcqkcgnbcVsggvbcObyfcrsgncfcvqqwcqkcpib sfvcsogbebpg,cbybocsolusext
Hugcnbcpqqockbvgcsgcybexc qv.,cpgfo.soachxcgnbcrfgbe;cnbcgueob.cfo.
rbogcgqrfe.pcXtcIeqpib gtcNbcrfvwb.cfvqoacgnfgcbo.vbppcpgebbgckqecfcvqoa
gsjb,cfvjqpgcnfvkcfocnque,cjqebcgnfocqo bcpgujhvsoacsocgnbc.fewcqocgnb
rqq.bocifybjbog,chugc qogsoufvvxcvqqwsoackqecpqjbgnsoacqocgnbcesangcps.b
qkcgnbcpgebbgtcNbcnf.coqgs b.cifppsoacgnequancgnspcpgebbgcvfgbvxcgnfg
gnbebcrfpcfcnqgbvcpqjbrnbebcgqrfe.pcgnbcbo.,chusvgcqkcrqq.,chugckfsevx
vfeab,cfo.csgpcofjbcnbcebjbjhbeb.crfpcpqjbgnsoacvswbcF.esfoqivbtcNbcrfp
oqgcjspgfwbo:cgnbcnqgbvcrfpcpqc qopis uqupcsocgnfgcAq.-kqepfwbocivf b
gnfgcnbc quv.coqgckfsvcgqcpbbcsgcbybocsocgnbc.fewtcSgcrfpcfcvqoa,
hvf wbob.crqq.bochusv.soa,cfo.csocpisgbcqkcgnbcvfgbcnquecgnbebcrbeb
vsangpcsocgnbcrso.qrpcfo.cpsaopcqkcvskbcrsgnsotcNbcrbogcsocfo.cfpwb.
fcefaab.ckbvvqrcrnqcjbgcnsjcsocgnbc qees.qeckqecfceqqjtcGnbcvfggbe,
p foosoacPys.esafïvqy,ciuvvb.cnsjpbvkcgqabgnbecfo.cvb.cnsjcfgcqo bcgqcf
 vqpbcfo.cgsoxceqqjcsocgnbc.spgfo b,cfgcgnbcbo.cqkcgnbc qees.qe,cuo.be
gnbcpgfseptcGnbebcrfpcoqcqgnbe,cfvvcrbebcq  uisb.tcGnbcefaab.ckbvvqr
vqqwb.csolusesoavxt

“Spcgnbebcgbf?”cfpwb.cPys.esafïvqyt

“Xbp,cpset”

“Rnfgcbvpbcspcgnbeb?”

“Ybfv,cyq.wf,cpfyquesbpt”

“Hesoacjbcgbfcfo.cybfvt”

“Fo.cxqucrfogcoqgnsoacbvpb?”cnbcfpwb.crsgncfiifebogcpueiespbt

“Oqgnsoa,coqgnsoat”

Gnbcefaab.cjfocrbogcfrfx,c qjivbgbvxc.spsvvupsqob.t

“Sgcjupgchbcfcos bcivf b,”cgnquangcPys.esafïvqytc“NqrcrfpcsgcSc.s.o’g
woqrcsg?cScbdib gcScvqqwcfpcskcSc fjbckeqjcfc fkéc nfogfogcfo.cnfyb
nf.cpqjbcf.yboguebcqocgnbcrfxtcSgcrquv.chbcsogbebpgsoacgqcwoqrcrnqcpgfxb.
nbeb?”

Nbcvsangb.cgnbc fo.vbcfo.cvqqwb.cfgcgnbceqqjcjqebc febkuvvxtcSgcrfpcf
eqqjcpqcvqr-isg nb.cgnfgcPys.esafïvqyc quv.cqovxcmupgcpgfo.cuicsocsg;
sgcnf.cqobcrso.qr;cgnbchb.,crns ncrfpcybexc.segx,cfo.cgnbcivfso-pgfsob.
 nfsecfo.cgfhvbcfvjqpgcksvvb.csgcuitcGnbcrfvvpcvqqwb.cfpcgnquancgnbx
rbebcjf.bcqkcivfowp,c qybeb.crsgncpnfhhxcifibe,cpqcgqeocfo.c.upgx
gnfgcgnbcifggbeocrfpcso.spgsoauspnfhvb,cgnquancgnbcabobefv
 qvque--xbvvqr-- quv.cpgsvvchbcjf.bcqugtcQobcqkcgnbcrfvvpcrfpc ugcpnqeg
hxcgnbcpvqisoac bsvsoa,cgnquancgnbceqqjcrfpcoqgcfocfggs chugcmupgcuo.be
gnbcpgfsept

Pys.esafïvqycpbgc.qrocgnbc fo.vb,cpfgc.qrocqocgnbchb.cfo.cpfowcsogq
gnquangtcHugcfcpgefoabcibepspgbogcjuejuecrns ncpqjbgsjbpceqpbcgqcfcpnqug
socgnbcobdgceqqjcfggef gb.cnspcfggbogsqotcGnbcjuejuecnf.coqgc bfpb.ckeqj
gnbcjqjbogcnbcbogbeb.cgnbceqqjtcNbcvspgbob.:cpqjbqobcrfpcuihefs.soacfo.
fvjqpgcgbfekuvvxcp qv.soa,chugcnbcnbfe.cqovxcqobcyqs bt

Pys.esafïvqycaqgcui,cpnf.b.cgnbcvsangcrsgncnspcnfo.cfo.cfgcqo bcnbcpfr
vsangcgnequancfc ef wcsocgnbcrfvv;cnbcrbogcuicfo.cibbib.cgnequantcGnb
eqqj,crns ncrfpcpqjbrnfgcvfeabecgnfocnsp,cnf.cgrqcq  uifogptcQobcqk
gnbj,cfcybexc uevx-nbf.b.cjfocrsgncfceb.csokvfjb.ckf b,crfpcpgfo.soa
socgnbciqpbcqkcfocqefgqe,crsgnqugcnspc qfg,crsgncnspcvbapcrs.bcfifegcgq
iebpbeybcnspchfvfo b,cfo.cpjsgsoacnsjpbvkcqocgnbchebfpgtcNbcebieqf nb.
gnbcqgnbecrsgnchbsoacfchbaafe,crsgncnfysoacoqcpgfo.soacrnfgbybetcNb
.b vfeb.cgnfgcnbcnf.cgfwbocgnbcqgnbecqugcqkcgnbcauggbecfo.cnbc quv.cgueo
nsjcqugcrnbocnbcvswb.,cfo.cgnfgcqovxcgnbcksoabecqkcIeqys.bo bcpbbpcsg
fvvtcGnbcqhmb gcqkcnspcebieqf nbpcrfpcpsggsoacsocfc nfse,cfo.cnf.cgnb
fsecqkcfcjfocrnqcrfogpc.ebf.kuvvxcgqcpobbzb,chugc fo’gtcNbcpqjbgsjbp
gueob.cpnbbispncfo.chbkqaab.cbxbpcqocgnbcpibfwbe,chugcqhysqupvxcnf.coqg
gnbcpvsangbpgcs.bfcrnfgcnbcrfpcgfvwsoacfhqugcfo.cp fe bvxcnbfe.csgtcF
 fo.vbcrfpchueosoac.qrocqocgnbcgfhvb;cgnbebcrbebcrsob-avfppbp,cfcobfevx
bjigxchqggvbcqkcyq.wf,chebf.cfo.c u ujhbe,cfo.cavfppbpcrsgncgnbc.ebap
qkcpgfvbcgbftcFkgbecafzsoacfggbogsybvxcfgcgnsp,cPys.esafïvqycgueob.cfrfx
so.skkbebogvxcfo.cpfgc.qrocqocgnbchb.t

Gnbcefaab.cfggbo.fog,cebgueosoacrsgncgnbcgbf,c quv.coqgcebpspgcfpwsoa
nsjcfafsocrnbgnbecnbc.s.o’gcrfogcfoxgnsoacjqeb,cfo.cfafsoceb bsysoacf
obafgsybcebivx,cksofvvxcrsgn.ebrtcPys.esafïvqycjf.bcnfpgbcgqc.esowcf
avfppcqkcgbfcgqcrfejcnsjpbvk,chugc quv.coqgcbfgcfoxgnsoatcNbchbafo
gqckbbvckbybespntcNbcgqqwcqkkcnspc qfgcfo.,crefiisoacnsjpbvkcsocgnb
hvfowbg,cvfxc.qrocqocgnbchb.tcNbcrfpcfooqxb.tc“Sgcrquv.cnfybchbbochbggbe
gqchbcrbvvckqecgnbcq  fpsqo,”cnbcgnquangcrsgncfcpjsvbtcGnbceqqjcrfp
 vqpb,cgnbc fo.vbchueogc.sjvx,cgnbcrso.crfpceqfesoacqugps.b,cnbcnbfe.
fcjqupbcp efg nsoacsocgnbc qeobecfo.cgnbceqqjcpjbvgcqkcjs bcfo.cqk
vbfgnbetcNbcvfxcsocfcpqegcqkcebybesb:cqobcgnquangckqvvqrb.cfoqgnbetcNb
kbvgcfcvqoasoacgqcksdcnspcsjfasofgsqocqocpqjbgnsoatc“Sgcjupgchbcfcafe.bo
uo.becgnbcrso.qr,”cnbcgnquangtc“Gnbeb’pcfcpquo.cqkcgebbptcNqrcSc.spvswb
gnbcpquo.cqkcgebbpcqocfcpgqejxcosang,csocgnbc.few!cGnbxcasybcqobcf
nqees.ckbbvsoat”cNbcebjbjhbeb.cnqrcnbcnf.c.spvswb.csgcrnbocnbcifppb.
IbgeqypwxcIfewcmupgcoqrtcGnspcebjso.b.cnsjcqkcgnbches.abcqybecgnbcVsggvb
Obyfcfo.cnbckbvgc qv.cfafsocfpcnbcnf.crnbocpgfo.soacgnbebtc“Scobybecnfyb
vswb.crfgbe,”cnbcgnquang,c“bybocsocfcvfo.p fib,”cfo.cnbcpu..bovxcpjsvb.
fafsocfgcfcpgefoabcs.bf:c“Puebvxcoqrcfvvcgnbpbclubpgsqopcqkcgfpgbcfo.
 qjkqegcquangcoqgcgqcjfggbe,chugcS’ybchb qjbcjqebcifegs uvfe,cvswbcfo
fosjfvcgnfgcis wpcqugcfcpib sfvcivf btttckqecpu ncfocq  fpsqotcScquang
gqcnfybcaqobcsogqcgnbcIbgeqypwxcIfew!cScpuiiqpbcsgcpbbjb.c.few,c qv.,
nf-nf!cFpcgnquancScrbebcpbbwsoacivbfpfogcpbopfgsqop!tttcHxcgnbcrfx,crnx
nfybo’gcSciugcqugcgnbc fo.vb?”cnbchvbrcsgcqugtc“Gnbx’ybcaqobcgqchb.cobdg
.qqe,”cnbcgnquang,coqgcpbbsoacgnbcvsangcfgcgnbc ef wtc“Rbvv,coqr,cJfekf
Ibgeqyof,coqrcspcgnbcgsjbckqecxqucgqcgueocui;csg’pc.few,cfo.cgnbcybex
gsjbcfo.civf bckqecxqutcHugcoqrcxqucrqo’gc qjb!”

Nbcpu..bovxceb fvvb.cnqr,cfocnquechbkqebc feexsoacqugcnspc.bpsaocqo
.quosf,cnbcnf.ceb qjjbo.b.cEfpwqvoswqycgqcgeupgcnbecgqcEfzujsnso’p
wbbisoatc“ScpuiiqpbcScebfvvxc.s.cpfxcsg,cfpcEfpwqvoswqycaubppb.,cgq
gbfpbcjxpbvktcHugcrnfgcfceqaubcgnfgcEfpwqvoswqycsp!cNb’pcaqobcgnequancf
aqq.c.bfvtcNbcjfxchbcfcpu  bppkuvceqaubcsocgsjbcrnbocnb’pcaqgcqybe
nspcoqopbopbtcHugcoqrcnb’pc_gqq_cbfabeckqecvskbtcGnbpbcxquoacjbo
febc qogbjigshvbcqocgnfgciqsogtcHug,cnfoacgnbckbvvqr!cVbgcnsjcivbfpb
nsjpbvk,csg’pcoqgnsoacgqc.qcrsgncjbt”

Nbc quv.coqgcabgcgqcpvbbitcHxc.baebbpc.quosf’pcsjfabceqpbchbkqebcnsj,
fo.cfcpnu..becefocqybecnsjtc“Oq,cScjupgcasybcuicfvvcgnfgcoqr,”cnb
gnquang,cequpsoacnsjpbvktc“ScjupgcgnsowcqkcpqjbgnsoacbvpbtcSg’pclubbe
fo.ckuooxtcScobybecnf.cfcaebfgcnfgeb.ckqecfoxqob,cScobybecifegs uvfevx
.bpseb.cgqcfyboabcjxpbvkcbybo,cfo.cgnfg’pcfchf.cpsao,cfchf.cpsao,cfchf.
psaotcScobybecvswb.clufeebvvsoacbsgnbe,cfo.cobybecvqpgcjxcgbjibe--gnfg’p
fchf.cpsaocgqqtcFo.cgnbcieqjspbpcScjf.bcnbecmupgcoqr,cgqq--.fjofgsqo!
Hug--rnqcwoqrp?--ibenfipcpnbcrquv.cnfybcjf.bcfcobrcjfocqkcjb
pqjbnqrtttt”

Nbcaequo.cnspcgbbgncfo.cpfowcsogqcpsvbo bcfafsotcFafsoc.quosf’pcsjfab
eqpbchbkqebcnsj,cmupgcfpcpnbcrfpcrnbo,cfkgbecpnqqgsoacgnbcksepgcgsjb,
pnbcnf.cvqrbeb.cgnbcebyqvybecsocgbeeqecfo.cafzb.chvfowvxcfgcnsj,cpqcgnfg
nbcjsangcnfybcpbszb.cnbecgrs bcqybecfo.cpnbcrquv.coqgcnfybcvskgb.cfcnfo.
gqc.bkbo.cnbepbvkcskcnbcnf.coqgcebjso.b.cnbetcNbceb fvvb.cnqrcfgcgnfg
sopgfogcnbckbvgcfvjqpgcpqeexckqecnbe,cnqrcnbcnf.ckbvgcfcifoacfgcnsp
nbfegttt

“Fïb!c.fjofgsqo,cgnbpbcgnquangpcfafso!cScjupgciugcsgcfrfx!”

Nbcrfpc.qzsoacqkk;cgnbckbybespncpnsybecnf.c bfpb.,crnbocpu..bovx
pqjbgnsoacpbbjb.cgqceuocqybecnspcfejcfo.cvbacuo.becgnbchb. vqgnbptcNb
pgfegb.tc“Uan!cnfoacsg!cSchbvsbybcsg’pcfcjqupb,”cnbcgnquang,c“gnfg’pcgnb
ybfvcScvbkgcqocgnbcgfhvbt”cNbckbvgckbfekuvvxc.spso vsob.cgqciuvvcqkkcgnb
hvfowbg,cabgcui,cabgc qv.,chugcfvvcfgcqo bcpqjbgnsoacuoivbfpfogcefocqybe
nspcvbacfafsotcNbciuvvb.cqkkcgnbchvfowbgcfo.cvsangb.cgnbc fo.vbtcPnfwsoa
rsgnckbybespnc nsvvcnbchbogc.qrocgqcbdfjsobcgnbchb.:cgnbebcrfpcoqgnsoat
Nbcpnqqwcgnbchvfowbgcfo.cpu..bovxcfcjqupbcmujib.cqugcqocgnbcpnbbgt
Nbcgesb.cgqc fg ncsg,chugcgnbcjqupbcefocgqcfo.ckeqcsoczsazfapcrsgnqug
vbfysoacgnbchb.,cpvsiib.chbgrbbocnspcksoabep,cefocqybecnspcnfo.cfo.
pu..bovxc.fegb.cuo.becgnbcisvvqrtcNbcgnebrc.qrocgnbcisvvqr,chugcsocqob
sopgfogckbvgcpqjbgnsoacvbficqocnspc nbpgcfo.c.fegcqybecnspchq.xcfo.c.qro
nspchf wcuo.becnspcpnsegtcNbcgebjhvb.cobeyqupvxcfo.crqwbcuit

Gnbceqqjcrfpc.fewtcNbcrfpcvxsoacqocgnbchb.cfo.crefiib.cuicsocgnbchvfowbg
fpchbkqebtcGnbcrso.crfpcnqrvsoacuo.becgnbcrso.qrtc“Nqrc.spaupgsoa,”cnb
gnquangcrsgncfooqxfo bt

Nbcaqgcuicfo.cpfgcqocgnbcb.abcqkcgnbchb.pgbf.crsgncnspchf wcgqcgnb
rso.qrtc“Sg’pchbggbecoqgcgqcpvbbicfgcfvv,”cnbc.b s.b.tcGnbebcrfpcfc qv.
.fjic.efuangckeqjcgnbcrso.qr,cnqrbybe;crsgnqugcabggsoacuicnbc.ebrcgnb
hvfowbgcqybecnsjcfo.crefiib.cnsjpbvkcsocsgtcNbcrfpcoqgcgnsowsoacqk
foxgnsoacfo.c.s.coqgcrfogcgqcgnsowtcHugcqobcsjfabceqpbcfkgbecfoqgnbe,
so qnbebogcp efipcqkcgnquangcrsgnqugchbasoosoacqecbo.cifppb.cgnequancnsp
jso.tcNbcpfowcsogqc.eqrpsobpptcIbenfipcgnbc qv.,cqecgnbc.fjiobpp,cqe
gnbc.few,cqecgnbcrso.cgnfgcnqrvb.cuo.becgnbcrso.qrcfo.cgqppb.cgnbcgebbp
equpb.cfcpqegcqkcibepspgbogc efysoackqecgnbckfogfpgs tcNbcwbigc.rbvvsoa
qocsjfabpcqkckvqrbep,cnbckfo sb.cfc nfejsoackvqrbecafe.bo,cfchesang,
rfej,cfvjqpgcnqgc.fx,cfcnqvs.fx--Gesosgxc.fxtcFcksob,cpujiguqupc quogex
 qggfabcsocgnbcBoavspncgfpgbcqybeaeqrocrsgnckefaefogckvqrbep,crsgn
kvqrbechb.pcaqsoacequo.cgnbcnqupb;cgnbciqe n,crebfgnb.csoc vsjhbep,crfp
pueequo.b.crsgnchb.pcqkceqpbptcFcvsang,c qqvcpgfse fpb,c feibgb.crsgn
es nceuap,crfpc.b qefgb.crsgncefebcivfogpcsoc nsofciqgptcNbcoqgs b.
ifegs uvfevxcsocgnbcrso.qrpcoqpbafxpcqkcgbo.be,crnsgb,cnbfysvxckefaefog
ofe sppupchbo.soacqybecgnbsechesang,caebbo,cgns wcvqoacpgfvwptcNbcrfp
ebvu gfogcgqcjqybcfrfxckeqjcgnbj,chugcnbcrbogcuicgnbcpgfsepcfo.c fjb
sogqcfcvfeab,cnsanc.efrsoa-eqqjcfo.cfafsocbybexrnbeb--fgcgnbcrso.qrp,
gnbc.qqepcqocgqcgnbchfv qox,cfo.cqocgnbchfv qoxcsgpbvk--rbebckvqrbept
Gnbckvqqepcrbebcpgebrocrsgnckebpnvx- ugckefaefogcnfx,cgnbcrso.qrp
rbebcqibo,cfckebpn,c qqv,cvsangcfsec fjbcsogqcgnbceqqjtcGnbchse.pcrbeb
 nseeuisoacuo.becgnbcrso.qr,cfo.csocgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbceqqj,cqocfcgfhvb
 qybeb.crsgncfcrnsgbcpfgsocpnequ.,cpgqq.cfc qkksotcGnbc qkksocrfp
 qybeb.crsgncrnsgbcpsvwcfo.cb.ab.crsgncfcgns wcrnsgbckesvv;crebfgnpcqk
kvqrbepcpueequo.b.csgcqocfvvcps.bptcFjqoacgnbckvqrbepcvfxcfcasevcsocf
rnsgbcjupvsoc.ebpp,crsgncnbecfejpc eqppb.cfo.ciebppb.cqocnbechqpqj,cfp
gnquanc feyb.cqugcqkcjfehvbtcHugcnbecvqqpbckfsecnfsecrfpcrbg;cgnbebcrfp
fcrebfgncqkceqpbpcqocnbecnbf.tcGnbcpgbeocfo.cfvebf.xcesas.cieqksvbcqk
nbeckf bcvqqwb.cfpcgnquanc nspbvvb.cqkcjfehvbcgqq,cfo.cgnbcpjsvbcqocnbe
ifvbcvsipcrfpckuvvcqkcfocsjjbopbcuo nsv.spncjspbexcfo.cpqeeqrkuvcfiibfvt
Pys.esafïvqycwobrcgnfgcasev;cgnbebcrfpcoqcnqvxcsjfab,coqchueosoac fo.vb
hbps.bcgnbc qkkso;coqcpquo.cqkciefxbep:cgnbcasevcnf.c.eqrob.cnbepbvkt
Pnbcrfpcqovxckquegbbo,chugcnbecnbfegcrfpcheqwbotcFo.cpnbcnf.c.bpgeqxb.
nbepbvk,c eupnb.chxcfocsopuvgcgnfgcnf.cfiifvvb.cfo.cfjfzb.cgnfgc nsv.spn
pquv,cnf.cpjse nb.cgnfgcfoabvciuesgxcrsgncuojbesgb.c.spaef bcfo.cgqeo
keqjcnbecfcvfpgcp ebfjcqkc.bpifse,cuonbb.b.cfo.cheugfvvxc.spebafe.b.,cqo
fc.fewcosangcsocgnbc qv.cfo.crbgcrnsvbcgnbcrso.cnqrvb.tttt

Pys.esafïvqyc fjbcgqcnsjpbvk,caqgcuickeqjcgnbchb.cfo.crbogcgqcgnb
rso.qrtcNbckbvgckqecgnbcvfg ncfo.cqibob.csgtcGnbcrso.cvfpnb.ckuesqupvx
sogqcgnbcvsggvbceqqjcfo.cpguoacnspckf bcfo.cnspc nbpg,cqovxc qybeb.crsgn
nspcpnseg,cfpcgnquancrsgnckeqpgtcUo.becgnbcrso.qrcgnbebcjupgcnfybchbbo
pqjbgnsoacvswbcfcafe.bo,cfo.cfiifebogvxcfcivbfpuebcafe.botcGnbeb,cgqq,
ieqhfhvxcgnbebcrbebcgbf-gfhvbpcfo.cpsoasoacsocgnbc.fxgsjbtcOqrc.eqipcqk
efsockvbrcsocfgcgnbcrso.qrckeqjcgnbcgebbpcfo.chupnbp;csgcrfpc.fewcfp
socfc bvvfe,cpqcgnfgcnbc quv.cqovxcmupgcjfwbcqugcpqjbc.fewchvuepcqk
qhmb gptcPys.esafïvqy,chbo.soac.qrocrsgncbvhqrpcqocgnbcrso.qr-psvv,
afzb.ckqecksybcjsougbpcsogqcgnbc.fewobpp;cgnbchqqjcqkcfc fooqo,ckqvvqrb.
hxcfcpb qo.cqob,cebpquo.b.csocgnbc.fewobppcqkcgnbcosangtc“Fn,cgnb
psaofv!cGnbcesybecspcqybekvqrsoa,”cnbcgnquangtc“Hxcjqeosoacsgcrsvvchb
prsevsoac.qrocgnbcpgebbgcsocgnbcvqrbecifegp,ckvqq.soacgnbchfpbjbogpcfo.
 bvvfeptcGnbc bvvfecefgpcrsvvcprsjcqug,cfo.cjbocrsvvc uepbcsocgnbcefso
fo.crso.cfpcgnbxc.efacgnbseceuhhspncgqcgnbsecuiibecpgqebxptcRnfgcgsjbcsp
sgcoqr?”cFo.cnbcnf.cnfe.vxcgnquangcsgcrnbo,cpqjbrnbebcobfe,cfc vq wcqo
gnbcrfvv,cgs wsoacfrfxcnueesb.vx,cpgeu wcgnebbt

“Fnf!cSgcrsvvchbcvsangcsocfocnque!cRnxcrfsg?cS’vvcaqcqugcfgcqo b
pgefsangcgqcgnbcifewtcS’vvc nqqpbcfcaebfgchupncgnbebc.ebo nb.crsgncefso,
pqcgnfgcfpcpqqocfpcqob’pcpnquv.becgqu nbpcsg,cjsvvsqopcqkc.eqipc.esicqo
qob’pcnbf.t”

Nbcjqyb.cfrfxckeqjcgnbcrso.qr,cpnugcsg,cvsangb.cgnbc fo.vb,ciugcqocnsp
rfspg qfg,cnspcqybe qfgcfo.cnspcnfgcfo.crbogcqug,c feexsoacgnbc fo.vb,
sogqcgnbcifppfabcgqcvqqwckqecgnbcefaab.cfggbo.fogcrnqcrquv.chbcfpvbbi
pqjbrnbebcsocgnbcjs.pgcqkc fo.vb-bo.pcfo.cfvvcpqegpcqkceuhhspn,cgqcifx
nsjckqecgnbceqqjcfo.cvbfybcgnbcnqgbvtc“Sg’pcgnbchbpgcjsougb;cSc quv.o’g
 nqqpbcfchbggbet”

Nbcrfvwb.ckqecpqjbcgsjbcgnequancfcvqoacofeeqrc qees.qecrsgnqugckso.soa
foxqobcfo.crfpcmupgcaqsoacgqc fvvcqug,crnbocpu..bovxcsocfc.fewc qeobe
hbgrbbocfocqv.c uihqfe.cfo.cgnbc.qqecnbc fuangcpsangcqkcfcpgefoabcqhmb g
rns ncpbbjb.cgqchbcfvsybtcNbchbogc.qrocrsgncgnbc fo.vbcfo.cpfrcfcvsggvb
asev,coqgcjqebcgnfocksybcxbfepcqv.,cpnsybesoacfo.c exsoa,crsgncnbe
 vqgnbpcfpcrbgcfpcfcpqfwsoacnqupb-kvfoobvtcPnbc.s.coqgcpbbjcfkefs.cqk
Pys.esafïvqy,chugcvqqwb.cfgcnsjcrsgnchvfowcfjfzbjbogcqugcqkcnbechsa
hvf wcbxbptcOqrcfo.cgnbocpnbcpqhhb.cfpc nsv.eboc.qcrnbocgnbxcnfybchbbo
 exsoacfcvqoacgsjb,chugcfebchbasoosoacgqchbc qjkqegb.tcGnbc nsv.’pckf b
rfpcifvbcfo.cgseb.,cpnbcrfpcoujhcrsgnc qv.tc“Nqrc focpnbcnfybc qjbcnbeb?
Pnbcjupgcnfybcns..bocnbebcfo.coqgcpvbigcfvvcosangt”cNbchbafoclubpgsqosoa
nbetcGnbc nsv.cpu..bovxchb qjsoacfosjfgb.,c nfggbeb.cfrfxcsocnbechfhx
vfoaufab,cpqjbgnsoacfhqugc“jfjjx”cfo.cgnfgc“jfjjxcrquv.chbfgcnbe,”cfo.
fhqugcpqjbc uicgnfgcpnbcnf.c“hrqwbot”cGnbc nsv.c nfggbeb.cqocrsgnqug
pgqiisoatcNbc quv.cqovxcaubppckeqjcrnfgcpnbcpfs.cgnfgcpnbcrfpcf
obavb gb.c nsv.,crnqpbcjqgnbe,cieqhfhvxcfc.euowboc qqw,csocgnbcpbeys b
qkcgnbcnqgbv,crnsiib.cfo.ckesangbob.cnbe;cgnfgcgnbc nsv.cnf.cheqwbo
fc uicqkcnbecjqgnbe’pcfo.crfpcpqckesangbob.cgnfgcpnbcnf.ceuocfrfxcgnb
bybosoachbkqeb,cnf.cns..bockqecfcvqoacrnsvbcpqjbrnbebcqugps.bcsocgnb
efso,cfgcvfpgcnf.cjf.bcnbecrfxcsocnbeb,cns..bochbnso.cgnbc uihqfe.cfo.
pibogcgnbcosangcgnbeb,c exsoacfo.cgebjhvsoackeqjcgnbc.fji,cgnbc.fewobpp
fo.cgnbckbfecgnfgcpnbcrquv.chbchf.vxchbfgbockqecsgtcNbcgqqwcnbecsocnsp
fejp,crbogchf wcgqcnspceqqj,cpfgcnbecqocgnbchb.,cfo.chbafocuo.ebppsoa
nbetcGnbcgqeocpnqbpcrns ncpnbcnf.cqocnbecpgq wsoavbppckbbgcrbebcfp
rbgcfpcskcgnbxcnf.chbbocpgfo.soacsocfciu..vbcfvvcosangtcRnbocnbcnf.
uo.ebppb.cnbe,cnbciugcnbecqocgnbchb.,c qybeb.cnbecuicfo.crefiib.cnbecso
gnbchvfowbgckeqjcnbecnbf.c.qrorfe.ptcPnbckbvvcfpvbbicfgcqo btcGnbocnb
pfowcsogqc.ebfexcjupsoacfafsot

“Rnfgckqvvxcgqcgequhvbcjxpbvk,”cnbc.b s.b.cpu..bovxcrsgncfocqiiebppsyb
kbbvsoacqkcfooqxfo btc“Rnfgcs.sq x!”cSocybdfgsqocnbcgqqwcuicgnbc fo.vb
gqcaqcfo.cvqqwckqecgnbcefaab.cfggbo.fogcfafsocfo.cjfwbcnfpgbcgqcaqcfrfxt
“.fjocgnbc nsv.!”cnbcgnquangcfpcnbcqibob.cgnbc.qqe,chugcnbcgueob.cfafso
gqcpbbcrnbgnbecgnbc nsv.crfpcfpvbbitcNbcefspb.cgnbchvfowbgc febkuvvxt
Gnbc nsv.crfpcpvbbisoacpquo.vx,cpnbcnf.caqgcrfejcuo.becgnbchvfowbg,
fo.cnbecifvbc nbbwpcrbebckvupnb.tcHugcpgefoabcgqcpfxcgnfgckvupncpbbjb.
hesangbecfo.c qfepbecgnfocgnbceqpxc nbbwpcqkc nsv.nqq.tc“Sg’pcfckvupn
qkckbybe,”cgnquangcPys.esafïvqytcSgcrfpcvswbcgnbckvupnckeqjc.esowsoa,cfp
gnquancpnbcnf.chbbocasybocfckuvvcavfppcgqc.esowtcNbec esjpqocvsipcrbeb
nqgcfo.cavqrsoa;chugcrnfgcrfpcgnsp?cNbcpu..bovxckfo sb.cgnfgcnbecvqoa
hvf wcbxbvfpnbpcrbebclusybesoa,cfpcgnquancgnbcvs.pcrbebcqibosoacfo.cf
pvxc efkgxcbxbcibbib.cqugcrsgncfocuo nsv.vswbcrsow,cfpcgnquancgnbcvsggvb
asevcrbebcoqgcfpvbbi,chugciebgbo.soatcXbp,csgcrfpcpqtcNbecvsipcifegb.cso
fcpjsvbtcGnbc qeobepcqkcnbecjqugnclusybeb.,cfpcgnquancpnbcrbebcgexsoacgq
 qogeqvcgnbjtcHugcoqrcpnbclusgbcafybcuicfvvcbkkqeg,coqrcsgcrfpcfcaeso,
fcheqf.caeso;cgnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoacpnfjbvbpp,cieqyq fgsybcsocgnfgclusgb
uo nsv.spnckf b;csgcrfpc.biefysgx,csgcrfpcgnbckf bcqkcfcnfevqg,cgnb
pnfjbvbppckf bcqkcfcKebo ncnfevqgtcOqrchqgncbxbpcqibob.crs.b;cgnbx
gueob.cfcavqrsoa,cpnfjbvbppcavfo bcuiqocnsj;cgnbxcvfuanb.,csoysgb.
nsjttttcGnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoacsoksosgbvxcns.bqupcfo.cpnq wsoacsocgnfg
vfuan,csocgnqpbcbxbp,csocpu ncofpgsobppcsocgnbckf bcqkcfc nsv.tc“Rnfg,
fgcksybcxbfepcqv.?”cPys.esafïvqycjuggbeb.csocabousobcnqeeqetc“Rnfgc.qbp
sgcjbfo?”cFo.coqrcpnbcgueob.cgqcnsj,cnbecvsggvbckf bcfvvcfavqr,cnqv.soa
qugcnbecfejpttttc“F  uepb.c nsv.!”cPys.esafïvqyc esb.,cefspsoacnspcnfo.
gqcpgeswbcnbe,chugcfgcgnfgcjqjbogcnbcrqwbcuit

Nbcrfpcsocgnbcpfjbchb.,cpgsvvcrefiib.csocgnbchvfowbgtcGnbc fo.vbcnf.coqg
hbbocvsangb.,cfo.c.fxvsangcrfpcpgebfjsoacsocfgcgnbcrso.qrpt

“S’ybcnf.cosangjfebcfvvcosang!”cNbcaqgcuicfoaesvx,ckbbvsoacuggbevx
pnfggbeb.;cnspchqobpcf nb.tcGnbebcrfpcfcgns wcjspgcqugps.bcfo.cnbc quv.
pbbcoqgnsoatcSgcrfpcobfevxcksybtcNbcnf.cqybepvbigcnsjpbvk!cNbcaqgcui,
iugcqocnspcpgsvvc.fjicmf wbgcfo.cqybe qfgtcKbbvsoacgnbcebyqvybecsocnsp
iq wbg,cnbcgqqwcsgcqugcfo.cgnbocnbcpfgc.qro,cgqqwcfcoqgbhqqwcqugcqkcnsp
iq wbgcfo.csocgnbcjqpgc qopis uqupcivf bcqocgnbcgsgvbcifabcreqgbcfckbr
vsobpcsocvfeabcvbggbeptcEbf.soacgnbjcqybe,cnbcpfowcsogqcgnquangcrsgncnsp
bvhqrpcqocgnbcgfhvbtcGnbcebyqvybecfo.cgnbcoqgbhqqwcvfxchbps.bcnsjtcPqjb
kvsbpcrqwbcuicfo.cpbggvb.cqocgnbcuogqu nb.cybfv,crns ncrfpcpgsvvcqo
gnbcgfhvbtcNbcpgfeb.cfgcgnbjcfo.cfgcvfpgcrsgncnspckebbcesangcnfo.chbafo
gexsoacgqc fg ncqobtcNbcgesb.cgsvvcnbcrfpcgseb.,chugc quv.coqgc fg ncsgt
Fgcvfpg,cebfvspsoacgnfgcnbcrfpcboafab.csocgnspcsogbebpgsoaciuepusg,cnb
pgfegb.,caqgcuicfo.crfvwb.cebpqvugbvxcqugcqkcgnbceqqjtcFcjsougbcvfgbecnb
rfpcsocgnbcpgebbgt

Fcgns wcjsvwxcjspgcnuoacqybecgnbcgqrotcPys.esafïvqycrfvwb.cfvqoacgnb
pvsiibexc.segxcrqq.bocifybjbogcgqrfe.pcgnbcVsggvbcObyftcNbcrfpcis guesoa
gnbcrfgbepcqkcgnbcVsggvbcObyfcprqvvbocsocgnbcosang,cIbgeqypwxcSpvfo.,
gnbcrbgcifgnp,cgnbcrbgcaefpp,cgnbcrbgcgebbpcfo.chupnbpcfo.cfgcvfpgcgnb
hupnttttcNbchbafocsvv-nujqueb.vxcpgfesoacfgcgnbcnqupbp,cgexsoacgqcgnsow
qkcpqjbgnsoacbvpbtcGnbebcrfpcoqgcfc fhjfocqecfcifppbe-hxcsocgnbcpgebbgt
Gnbchesangcxbvvqr,crqq.bo,cvsggvbcnqupbpcvqqwb.c.segxcfo.c.bmb gb.crsgn
gnbsec vqpb.cpnuggbeptcGnbc qv.cfo.c.fjicibobgefgb.cnspcrnqvbchq.xcfo.
nbchbafocgqcpnsybetcKeqjcgsjbcgqcgsjbcnbc fjbcf eqppcpnqicpsaopcfo.cebf.
bf nc febkuvvxtcFgcvfpgcnbcebf nb.cgnbcbo.cqkcgnbcrqq.bocifybjbogcfo.
 fjbcgqcfchsacpgqobcnqupbtcFc.segx,cpnsybesoac.qac eqppb.cnspcifgncrsgn
sgpcgfsvchbgrbbocsgpcvbaptcFcjfocsocfcaebfg qfgcvfxckf bc.qrorfe.p;c.bf.
.euow,cf eqppcgnbcifybjbogtcNbcvqqwb.cfgcnsjcfo.crbogcqotcFcnsancgqrbe
pgqq.cuicqocgnbcvbkgtc“Hfn!”cnbcpnqugb.,c“nbebcspcfcivf btcRnxcpnquv.
sgchbcIbgeqypwx?cSgcrsvvchbcsocgnbciebpbo bcqkcfocqkks sfvcrsgobpp
foxrfxtttt”

Nbcfvjqpgcpjsvb.cfgcgnspcobrcgnquangcfo.cgueob.csogqcgnbcpgebbgcrnbeb
gnbebcrfpcgnbchsacnqupbcrsgncgnbcgqrbetcFgcgnbcaebfgc vqpb.cafgbpcqk
gnbcnqupb,cfcvsggvbcjfocpgqq.crsgncnspcpnquv.becvbfosoacfafsopgcgnbj,
refiib.csocfcaebxcpqv.sbe’pc qfg,crsgncfc qiibecF nsvvbpcnbvjbgcqocnsp
nbf.tcNbc fpgcfc.eqrpxcfo.cso.skkbebogcavfo bcfgcPys.esafïvqytcNsp
kf bcrqebcgnfgcibeibgufvcvqqwcqkcibbyspnc.bmb gsqo,crns ncspcpqcpquevx
iesogb.cqocfvvckf bpcqkcMbrspncef bcrsgnqugcbd bigsqotcGnbxchqgn,
Pys.esafïvqycfo.cF nsvvbp,cpgfeb.cfgcbf ncqgnbeckqecfckbrcjsougbp
rsgnqugcpibfwsoatcFgcvfpgcsgcpgeu wcF nsvvbpcfpcseebauvfeckqecfcjfo
oqgc.euowcgqchbcpgfo.soacgnebbcpgbipckeqjcnsj,cpgfesoacfo.coqgcpfxsoacf
rqe.t

“Rnfgc.qcxqucrfogcnbeb?”cnbcpfs.,crsgnqugcjqysoacqec nfoasoacnsp
iqpsgsqot

“Oqgnsoa,cheqgnbe,caqq.cjqeosoa,”cfoprbeb.cPys.esafïvqyt

“Gnspcspo’gcgnbcivf bt”

“Scfjcaqsoacgqckqebsaocifegp,cheqgnbet”

“Gqckqebsaocifegp?”

“GqcFjbes ft”

“Fjbes ft”

Pys.esafïvqycgqqwcqugcgnbcebyqvybecfo.c q wb.csgtcF nsvvbpcefspb.cnsp
bxbheqrpt

“Scpfx,cgnspcspcoqgcgnbcivf bckqecpu ncmqwbp!”

“Rnxcpnquv.o’gcsgchbcgnbcivf b?”

“Hb fupbcsgcspo’gt”

“Rbvv,cheqgnbe,cSc.qo’gcjso.cgnfgtcSg’pcfcaqq.civf btcRnbocxqucfeb
fpwb.,cxqucmupgcpfxcnbcrfpcaqsoa,cnbcpfs.,cgqcFjbes ft”

Nbciugcgnbcebyqvybecgqcnspcesangcgbjivbt

“Xquc fo’gc.qcsgcnbeb,csg’pcoqgcgnbcivf b,”c esb.cF nsvvbp,cequpsoa
nsjpbvk,cnspcbxbpcaeqrsoachsaabecfo.chsaabet

Pys.esafïvqyciuvvb.cgnbcgesaabet



 NFIGBEcYSS

Gnbcpfjbc.fx,cfhqugcpbybocq’ vq wcsocgnbcbybosoa,cEfpwqvoswqycrfpcqo
nspcrfxcgqcnspcjqgnbe’pcfo.cpspgbe’pcvq.asoa--gnbcvq.asoacsocHfwfvbxby’p
nqupbcrns ncEfzujsnsocnf.ckquo.ckqecgnbjtcGnbcpgfsepcrbogcuickeqj
gnbcpgebbgtcEfpwqvoswqycrfvwb.crsgncvfaasoacpgbip,cfpcgnquancpgsvv
nbpsgfgsoacrnbgnbecgqcaqcqecoqgtcHugcoqgnsoacrquv.cnfybcgueob.cnsjchf w:
nspc.b spsqocrfpcgfwbot

“Hbps.bp,csgc.qbpo’gcjfggbe,cgnbxcpgsvvcwoqrcoqgnsoa,”cnbcgnquang,c“fo.
gnbxcfebcupb.cgqcgnsowsoacqkcjbcfpcb  boges t”

Nbcrfpcfiifvvsoavxc.ebppb.:cnspc vqgnbpcgqeocfo.c.segx,cpqfwb.crsgncf
osang’pcefsotcNspckf bcrfpcfvjqpgc.spgqegb.ckeqjckfgsaub,cbdiqpueb,cgnb
sorfe.c qokvs gcgnfgcnf.cvfpgb.ckqecgrbogx-kquecnqueptcNbcnf.cpibogcfvv
gnbciebysqupcosangcfvqob,cAq.cwoqrpcrnbebtcHugcfoxrfxcnbcnf.cebf nb.cf
.b spsqot

Nbcwoq wb.cfgcgnbc.qqecrns ncrfpcqibob.chxcnspcjqgnbetc.quosfcrfpcoqg
fgcnqjbtcBybocgnbcpbeyfogcnfiibob.cgqchbcqugtcFgcksepgcIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyofcrfpcpibb nvbppcrsgncmqxcfo.cpueiespb;cgnbocpnbcgqqwcnsjchx
gnbcnfo.cfo.c.ebrcnsjcsogqcgnbceqqjt

“Nbebcxqucfeb!”cpnbchbafo,ckfvgbesoacrsgncmqxtc“.qo’gchbcfoaexcrsgn
jb,cEq.xf,ckqecrbv qjsoacxqucpqckqqvspnvxcrsgncgbfep:cScfjcvfuansoacoqg
 exsoatc.s.cxqucgnsowcScrfpc exsoa?cOq,cScfjc.bvsangb.,chugcS’ybcaqg
sogqcpu ncfcpguis.cnfhsgcqkcpnb..soacgbfeptcS’ybchbbocvswbcgnfgcbybe
pso bcxqueckfgnbe’pc.bfgntcSc exckqecfoxgnsoatcPsgc.qro,c.bfechqx,cxqu
jupgchbcgseb.;cScpbbcxqucfebtcFn,cnqrcju..xcxqucfebt”

“Scrfpcsocgnbcefsocxbpgbe.fx,cjqgnbetttt”cEfpwqvoswqychbafot

“Oq,coq,”cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcnueesb.vxcsogbeeuigb.,c“xqucgnquangcS
rfpcaqsoacgqc eqpp-lubpgsqocxqucsocgnbcrqjfospncrfxcScupb.cgq;c.qo’gchb
fodsqup,cScuo.bepgfo.,cScuo.bepgfo.csgcfvv:coqrcS’ybcvbfeob.cgnbcrfxp
nbebcfo.cgeuvxcScpbbckqecjxpbvkcgnfgcgnbxcfebchbggbetcS’ybcjf.bcuicjx
jso.cqo bckqecfvv:cnqrc quv.cScuo.bepgfo.cxquecivfopcfo.cbdib gcxqucgq
asybcfocf  quogcqkcgnbj?cAq.cwoqrpcrnfgc qo beopcfo.civfopcxqucjfxcnfyb,
qecrnfgcs.bfpcxqucfebcnfg nsoa;cpqcsg’pcoqgckqecjbcgqcwbbicou.asoacxque
bvhqr,cfpwsoacxqucrnfgcxqucfebcgnsowsoacfhqug?cHug,cjxcaqq.obpp!crnx
fjcSceuoosoacgqcfo.ckeqcfpcgnquancScrbebc efzxttt?cScfjcebf.soacxque
fegs vbcsocgnbcjfafzsobckqecgnbcgnse.cgsjb,cEq.xftc.jsgescIeqwqksg n
hequangcsgcgqcjbtc.seb gvxcScpfrcsgcSc esb.cqugcgqcjxpbvk:c‘Gnbeb,
kqqvspncqob,’cScgnquang,c‘gnfg’pcrnfgcnbcspchupxcfhqug;cgnfg’pcgnb
pqvugsqocqkcgnbcjxpgbex!cVbfeob.cibqivbcfebcfvrfxpcvswbcgnfgtcNbcjfx
nfybcpqjbcobrcs.bfpcsocnspcnbf.cmupgcoqr;cnbcspcgnsowsoacgnbjcqybecfo.cS
rqeexcnsjcfo.cuipbgcnsjt’cScebf.csg,cjxc.bfe,cfo.cqkc quepbcgnbebcrfpcf
aebfgc.bfvcSc.s.coqgcuo.bepgfo.;chugcgnfg’pcqovxcofguefv--nqrcpnquv.cS?”

“Pnqrcjb,cjqgnbet”

Efpwqvoswqycgqqwcgnbcjfafzsobcfo.cavfo b.cfgcnspcfegs vbtcSo qoaeuqup
fpcsgcrfpcrsgncnspcjqq.cfo.cnspc se ujpgfo bp,cnbckbvgcgnfgcpgefoabcfo.
hsggbecprbbgcpbopfgsqocgnfgcbybexcfugnqecbdibesbo bpcgnbcksepgcgsjbcnb
pbbpcnsjpbvkcsociesog;chbps.bp,cnbcrfpcqovxcgrbogx-gnebbtcSgcvfpgb.cqovx
fcjqjbogtcFkgbecebf.soacfckbrcvsobpcnbckeqrob.cfo.cnspcnbfegcgneqhhb.
rsgncfoauspntcNbceb fvvb.cfvvcgnbcsorfe.c qokvs gcqkcgnbcieb b.soa
jqognptcNbckvuoacgnbcfegs vbcqocgnbcgfhvbcrsgnc.spaupgcfo.cfoabet

“Hug,cnqrbybeckqqvspncScjfxchb,cEq.xf,cSc focpbbckqecjxpbvkcgnfgcxqu
rsvvcybexcpqqochbcqobcqkcgnbcvbf.soa--skcoqgcgnbcvbf.soacjfo--socgnb
rqev.cqkcEuppsfocgnquangtcFo.cgnbxc.feb.cgqcgnsowcxqucrbebcjf.!cXqu
.qo’gcwoqr,chugcgnbxcebfvvxcgnquangcgnfgtcFn,cgnbc.bpis fhvbc ebfguebp,
nqrc quv.cgnbxcuo.bepgfo.cabosup!cFo.c.quosf,c.quosfcrfpcfvvchug
hbvsbysoacsg--rnfgc.qcxqucpfxcgqcgnfg?cXqueckfgnbecpbogcgrs bcgq
jfafzsobp--gnbcksepgcgsjbciqbjpc(S’ybcaqgcgnbcjfoup esigcfo.crsvvcpnqr
xqu)cfo.cgnbcpb qo.cgsjbcfcrnqvbcoqybvc(Schbaab.cnsjcgqcvbgcjbc qixcsg
qug)cfo.cnqrcrbciefxb.cgnfgcgnbxcpnquv.chbcgfwbo--gnbxcrbebo’g!cScrfp
hebfwsoacjxcnbfeg,cEq.xf,cpsdcqecpbyboc.fxpcfaqcqybecxqueckqq.cfo.cxque
 vqgnbpcfo.cgnbcrfxcxqucfebcvsysoatcHugcoqrcScpbbcfafsocnqrckqqvspn
Scrfp,ckqecxquc focfggfsocfoxciqpsgsqocxqucvswbchxcxquecsogbvvb gcfo.
gfvbogtcOqc.quhgcxquc.qo’gc febcfhqugcgnfgckqecgnbciebpbogcfo.cxqucfeb
q  uisb.crsgncju ncjqebcsjiqegfogcjfggbeptttt”

“.quosf’pcoqgcfgcnqjb,cjqgnbe?”

“Oq,cEq.xftcScqkgboc.qo’gcpbbcnbe;cpnbcvbfybpcjbcfvqobtc.jsges
Ieqwqksg nc qjbpcgqcpbbcjb,csg’pcpqcaqq.cqkcnsj,cfo.cnbcfvrfxpcgfvwp
fhqugcxqutcNbcvqybpcxqucfo.cebpib gpcxqu,cjxc.bfetcSc.qo’gcpfxcgnfg
.quosfcspcybexcrfogsoacsoc qops.befgsqotcScfjcoqgc qjivfsosoatcPnbcnfp
nbecrfxpcfo.cScnfybcjsob;cpnbcpbbjpcgqcnfybcaqgcpqjbcpb ebgpcqkcvfgbcfo.
Scobybecnfybcfoxcpb ebgpckeqjcxqucgrqtcQkc quepb,cScfjcpuebcgnfgc.quosf
nfpckfecgqqcju ncpbopb,cfo.chbps.bpcpnbcvqybpcxqucfo.cjbtttchugcSc.qo’g
woqrcrnfgcsgcrsvvcfvvcvbf.cgqtcXqu’ybcjf.bcjbcpqcnfiixchxc qjsoacoqr,
Eq.xf,chugcpnbcnfpcjsppb.cxquchxcaqsoacqug;crnbocpnbc qjbpcsocS’vvcgbvv
nbe:c‘Xquecheqgnbec fjbcsocrnsvbcxqucrbebcqugtcRnbebcnfybcxquchbbocfvv
gnspcgsjb?’cXqucjupgo’gcpiqsvcjb,cEq.xf,cxqucwoqr;c qjbcrnbocxquc fo,
hugcskcxquc fo’g,csgc.qbpo’gcjfggbe,cSc focrfsgtcScpnfvvcwoqr,cfoxrfx,
gnfgcxqucfebckqo.cqkcjb,cgnfgcrsvvchbcboquanckqecjbtcScpnfvvcebf.crnfg
xqucresgb,cScpnfvvcnbfecfhqugcxquckeqjcbybexqob,cfo.cpqjbgsjbpcxqu’vv
 qjbcxquepbvkcgqcpbbcjbtcRnfgc quv.chbchbggbe?cNbebcxqu’ybc qjbcoqrcgq
 qjkqegcxquecjqgnbe,cScpbbcgnfgt”

NbebcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofchbafocgqc ext

“NbebcScfjcfafso!c.qo’gcjso.cjxckqqvspnobpptcJxcaqq.obpp,crnxcfjcS
psggsoacnbeb?”cpnbc esb.,cmujisoacuitc“Gnbebcspc qkkbbcfo.cSc.qo’gcqkkbe
xqucfoxtcFn,cgnfg’pcgnbcpbvkspnobppcqkcqv.cfabtcS’vvcabgcsgcfgcqo b!”

“Jqgnbe,c.qo’gcgequhvb,cScfjcaqsoacfgcqo btcScnfybo’gc qjbckqecgnfgt
Ivbfpbcvspgbocgqcjbt”

Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrbogcuicgqcnsjcgsjs.vxt

“Jqgnbe,crnfgbybecnfiibop,crnfgbybecxqucnbfecfhqugcjb,crnfgbybecxqucfeb
gqv.cfhqugcjb,crsvvcxqucfvrfxpcvqybcjbcfpcxquc.qcoqr?”cnbcfpwb.cpu..bovx
keqjcgnbckuvvobppcqkcnspcnbfeg,cfpcgnquancoqgcgnsowsoacqkcnspcrqe.pcfo.
oqgcrbsansoacgnbjt

“Eq.xf,cEq.xf,crnfgcspcgnbcjfggbe?cNqrc focxqucfpwcjbcpu ncfclubpgsqo?
Rnx,crnqcrsvvcgbvvcjbcfoxgnsoacfhqugcxqu?cHbps.bp,cScpnquv.o’gchbvsbyb
foxqob,cScpnquv.cebkupbcgqcvspgbot”

“S’ybc qjbcgqcfppuebcxqucgnfgcS’ybcfvrfxpcvqyb.cxqucfo.cScfjcavf.
gnfgcrbcfebcfvqob,cbybocavf.c.quosfcspcqug,”cnbcrbogcqocrsgncgnbcpfjb
sjiuvpbtc“Scnfybc qjbcgqcgbvvcxqucgnfgcgnquancxqucrsvvchbcuonfiix,cxqu
jupgchbvsbybcgnfgcxquecpqocvqybpcxqucoqrcjqebcgnfocnsjpbvk,cfo.cgnfgcfvv
xqucgnquangcfhqugcjb,cgnfgcScrfpc eubvcfo.c.s.o’gc febcfhqugcxqu,crfp
fvvcfcjspgfwbtcScpnfvvcobybec bfpbcgqcvqybcxquttttcRbvv,cgnfg’pcboquan:
ScgnquangcScjupgc.qcgnspcfo.chbasocrsgncgnsptttt”

Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcbjhef b.cnsjcsocpsvbo b,ciebppsoacnsjcgqcnbe
hqpqjcfo.crbbisoacabogvxt

“Sc.qo’gcwoqrcrnfgcspcreqoacrsgncxqu,cEq.xf,”cpnbcpfs.cfgcvfpgtc“S’yb
hbbocgnsowsoacfvvcgnspcgsjbcgnfgcrbcrbebcpsjivxchqesoacxqucfo.coqrcScpbb
gnfgcgnbebcspcfcaebfgcpqeeqrcsocpgqebckqecxqu,cfo.cgnfg’pcrnxcxqucfeb
jspbefhvbtcS’ybckqebpbbocsgcfcvqoacgsjb,cEq.xftcKqeasybcjbckqecpibfwsoa
fhqugcsgtcScwbbicgnsowsoacfhqugcsgcfo.cvsbcfrfwbcfgcosangptcXquecpspgbe
vfxcgfvwsoacsocnbecpvbbicfvvcvfpgcosang,cgfvwsoacqkcoqgnsoachugcxqutcS
 fuangcpqjbgnsoa,chugcSc quv.o’gcjfwbcsgcqugtcSckbvgcfvvcgnbcjqeosoa
fpcgnquancScrbebcaqsoacgqchbcnfoab.,crfsgsoackqecpqjbgnsoa,cbdib gsoa
pqjbgnsoa,cfo.coqrcsgcnfpc qjb!cEq.xf,cEq.xf,crnbebcfebcxqucaqsoa?cXqu
febcaqsoacfrfxcpqjbrnbeb?”

“Xbpt”

“Gnfg’pcrnfgcScgnquang!cSc foc qjbcrsgncxqu,cxqucwoqr,cskcxqucobb.
jbtcFo.c.quosf,cgqq;cpnbcvqybpcxqu,cpnbcvqybpcxquc.bfevx--fo.cPqkxf
Pbjxqoqyofcjfxc qjbcrsgncupcskcxqucvswbtcXqucpbb,cScfjcavf.cgqcvqqwcuiqo
nbecfpcfc.fuangbecbybotttc.jsgescIeqwqksg ncrsvvcnbvicupcgqcaqcgqabgnbet
Hugtttcrnbebtttcfebcxqucaqsoa?”

“Aqq.-hxb,cjqgnbet”

“Rnfg,cgq-.fx?”cpnbc esb.,cfpcgnquancvqpsoacnsjckqecbybet

“Sc fo’gcpgfx,cScjupgcaqcoqrtttt”

“Fo.c fo’gcSc qjbcrsgncxqu?”

“Oq,chugcwobbvc.qrocfo.ciefxcgqcAq.ckqecjbtcXqueciefxbecibenfipcrsvv
ebf ncNsjt”

“Vbgcjbchvbppcxqucfo.cpsaocxqucrsgncgnbc eqpptcGnfg’pcesang,cgnfg’p
esangtcQn,cAq.,crnfgcfebcrbc.qsoa?”

Xbp,cnbcrfpcavf.,cnbcrfpcybexcavf.cgnfgcgnbebcrfpcoqcqobcgnbeb,cgnfg
nbcrfpcfvqobcrsgncnspcjqgnbetcKqecgnbcksepgcgsjbcfkgbecfvvcgnqpbcfrkuv
jqognpcnspcnbfegcrfpcpqkgbob.tcNbckbvvc.qrochbkqebcnbe,cnbcwsppb.cnbe
kbbgcfo.chqgncrbig,cbjhef soatcFo.cpnbcrfpcoqgcpueiespb.cfo.c.s.coqg
lubpgsqocnsjcgnspcgsjbtcKqecpqjbc.fxpcpnbcnf.cebfvspb.cgnfgcpqjbgnsoa
frkuvcrfpcnfiibosoacgqcnbecpqocfo.cgnfgcoqrcpqjbcgbeeshvbcjsougbcnf.
 qjbckqecnsjt

“Eq.xf,cjxc.fevsoa,cjxcksepgchqeo,”cpnbcpfs.cpqhhsoa,c“oqrcxqucfebcmupg
fpcrnbocxqucrbebcvsggvbtcXqucrquv.ceuocvswbcgnspcgqcjbcfo.cnuacjbcfo.
wsppcjbtcRnbocxqueckfgnbecrfpcvsysoacfo.crbcrbebciqqe,cxquc qjkqegb.cup
psjivxchxchbsoacrsgncupcfo.crnbocSchuesb.cxqueckfgnbe,cnqrcqkgbocrb
rbigcgqabgnbecfgcnspcaefybcfo.cbjhef b.,cfpcoqrtcFo.cskcS’ybchbboc exsoa
vfgbvx,csg’pcgnfgcjxcjqgnbe’pcnbfegcnf.cfckqebhq.soacqkcgequhvbtcGnb
ksepgcgsjbcScpfrcxqu,cgnfgcbybosoa,cxqucebjbjhbe,cfpcpqqocfpcrbcfeesyb.
nbeb,cScaubppb.cpsjivxckeqjcxquecbxbptcJxcnbfegcpfowcfgcqo b,cfo.cgq-.fx
rnbocScqibob.cgnbc.qqecfo.cvqqwb.cfgcxqu,cScgnquangcgnbckfgfvcnquecnf.
 qjbtcEq.xf,cEq.xf,cxqucfebcoqgcaqsoacfrfxcgq-.fx?”

“Oq!”

“Xqu’vvc qjbcfafso?”

“XbptttcS’vvc qjbt”

“Eq.xf,c.qo’gchbcfoaex,cSc.qo’gc.febcgqclubpgsqocxqutcScwoqrcScjupgo’gt
Qovxcpfxcgrqcrqe.pcgqcjb--spcsgckfecrnbebcxqucfebcaqsoa?”

“Ybexckfet”

“Rnfgcspcfrfsgsoacxqucgnbeb?cPqjbciqpgcqec febbeckqecxqu?”

“RnfgcAq.cpbo.ptttcqovxciefxckqecjbt”cEfpwqvoswqycrbogcgqcgnbc.qqe,chug
pnbc vug nb.cnsjcfo.cafzb.c.bpifsesoavxcsogqcnspcbxbptcNbeckf bcrqewb.
rsgncgbeeqet

“Boquan,cjqgnbe,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,c.bbivxcebaebggsoacgnfgcnbcnf.c qjbt

“Oqgckqecbybe,csg’pcoqgcxbgckqecbybe?cXqu’vvc qjb,cxqu’vvc qjb
gq-jqeeqr?”

“Scrsvv,cScrsvv,caqq.-hxbt”cNbcgqebcnsjpbvkcfrfxcfgcvfpgt

Sgcrfpcfcrfej,ckebpn,chesangcbybosoa;csgcnf.c vbfeb.cuicsocgnbcjqeosoat
Efpwqvoswqycrbogcgqcnspcvq.asoap;cnbcjf.bcnfpgbtcNbcrfogb.cgqcksospncfvv
hbkqebcpuopbgtcNbc.s.coqgcrfogcgqcjbbgcfoxqobcgsvvcgnbotcAqsoacuicgnb
pgfsepcnbcoqgs b.cgnfgcOfpgfpxfceupnb.ckeqjcgnbcpfjqyfecgqcrfg ncnsj
sogbogvxtc“ focfoxqobcnfybc qjbcgqcpbbcjb?”cnbcrqo.beb.tcNbcnf.cf
.spaupgb.cyspsqocqkcIqeksextcHugcqibosoacnspc.qqecnbcpfrc.quosftcPnb
rfpcpsggsoacfvqob,civuoab.csoc.bbicgnquang,cfo.cvqqwb.cfpcgnquancpnbcnf.
hbbocrfsgsoacfcvqoacgsjbtcNbcpgqiib.cpnqegcsocgnbc.qqerfxtcPnbceqpbckeqj
gnbcpqkfcsoc.spjfxcfo.cpgqq.cuickf soacnsjtcNbecbxbp,cksdb.cuiqocnsj,
hbgefxb.cnqeeqecfo.csoksosgbcaesbktcFo.ckeqjcgnqpbcbxbpcfvqobcnbcpfrcfg
qo bcgnfgcpnbcwobrt

“FjcScgqc qjbcsocqecaqcfrfx?”cnbcfpwb.cuo begfsovxt

“S’ybchbbocfvvc.fxcrsgncPqkxfcPbjxqoqyoftcRbcrbebchqgncrfsgsoackqecxqut
Rbcgnquangcgnfgcxqucrquv.chbcpuebcgqc qjbcgnbebt”

Efpwqvoswqycrbogcsogqcgnbceqqjcfo.cpfowcbdnfupgb.cqocfc nfset

“Sckbbvcrbfw,c.quosf,cScfjcybexcgseb.;cfo.cScpnquv.cnfybcvswb.cfgcgnsp
jqjbogcgqchbcfhvbcgqc qogeqvcjxpbvkt”

Nbcavfo b.cfgcnbecjspgeupgkuvvxt

“Rnbebcrbebcxqucfvvcosang?”

“Sc.qo’gcebjbjhbec vbfevxtcXqucpbb,cpspgbe,cScrfogb.cgqcjfwbcuicjxcjso.
qo bckqecfvv,cfo.cpbybefvcgsjbpcScrfvwb.chxcgnbcObyf,cScebjbjhbecgnfg
Scrfogb.cgqcbo.csgcfvvcgnbeb,chugtttcSc quv.o’gcjfwbcuicjxcjso.,”cnb
rnspibeb.,cvqqwsoacfgcnbecjspgeupgkuvvxcfafsot

“GnfowcAq.!cGnfgcrfpcmupgcrnfgcrbcrbebcfkefs.cqk,cPqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcfo.
StcGnbocxqucpgsvvcnfybckfsgncsocvskb?cGnfowcAq.,cgnfowcAq.!”

Efpwqvoswqycpjsvb.chsggbevxt

“Scnfybo’gckfsgn,chugcScnfybcmupgchbbocrbbisoacsocjqgnbe’pcfejp;cS
nfybo’gckfsgn,chugcScnfybcmupgcfpwb.cnbecgqciefxckqecjbtcSc.qo’gcwoqr
nqrcsgcsp,c.quosf,cSc.qo’gcuo.bepgfo.csgt”

“Nfybcxquchbbocfgcjqgnbe’p?cNfybcxqucgqv.cnbe?”c esb.c.quosf,
nqeeqe-pges wbotc“Puebvxcxqucnfybo’gc.qobcgnfg?”

“Oq,cSc.s.o’gcgbvvcnbetttcsocrqe.p;chugcpnbcuo.bepgqq.cfcaebfgc.bfvt
Pnbcnbfe.cxqucgfvwsoacsocxquecpvbbitcScfjcpuebcpnbcnfvkcuo.bepgfo.pcsg
fvebf.xtcIbenfipcSc.s.creqoacsocaqsoacgqcpbbcnbetcSc.qo’gcwoqrcrnxcSc.s.
aqtcScfjcfc qogbjigshvbcibepqo,c.quosft”

“Fc qogbjigshvbcibepqo,chugcebf.xcgqckf bcpukkbesoa!cXqucfeb,cfebo’g
xqu?”

“Xbp,cScfjcaqsoatcFgcqo btcXbp,cgqcbp fibcgnbc.spaef bcScgnquangcqk
.eqrosoacjxpbvk,c.quosf,chugcfpcScvqqwb.csogqcgnbcrfgbe,cScgnquangcgnfg
skcScnf.c qops.beb.cjxpbvkcpgeqoacgsvvcoqrcS’.chbggbecoqgchbcfkefs.cqk
.spaef b,”cnbcpfs.,cnueexsoacqotc“Sg’pcies.b,c.quosft”

“Ies.b,cEq.xft”

Gnbebcrfpcfcavbfjcqkcksebcsocnspcvupgebvbppcbxbp;cnbcpbbjb.cgqchbcavf.
gqcgnsowcgnfgcnbcrfpcpgsvvciequ.t

“Xquc.qo’gcgnsow,cpspgbe,cgnfgcScrfpcpsjivxcfkefs.cqkcgnbcrfgbe?”cnb
fpwb.,cvqqwsoacsogqcnbeckf bcrsgncfcpsospgbecpjsvbt

“Qn,cEq.xf,cnupn!”c esb.c.quosfchsggbevxtcPsvbo bcvfpgb.ckqecgrq
jsougbptcNbcpfgcrsgncnspcbxbpcksdb.cqocgnbckvqqe;c.quosfcpgqq.cfgcgnb
qgnbecbo.cqkcgnbcgfhvbcfo.cvqqwb.cfgcnsjcrsgncfoauspntcPu..bovxcnbcaqg
uit

“Sg’pcvfgb,csg’pcgsjbcgqcaq!cScfjcaqsoacfgcqo bcgqcasybcjxpbvkcuitcHugcS
.qo’gcwoqrcrnxcScfjcaqsoacgqcasybcjxpbvkcuit”

Hsacgbfepckbvvc.qrocnbec nbbwpt

“Xqucfebc exsoa,cpspgbe,chugc focxqucnqv.cqugcxquecnfo.cgqcjb?”

“Xquc.quhgb.csg?”

Pnbcgnebrcnbecfejpcequo.cnsjt

“Febo’gcxqucnfvkcbdisfgsoacxquec esjbchxckf soacgnbcpukkbesoa?”cpnb
 esb.,cnqv.soacnsjc vqpbcfo.cwsppsoacnsjt

“ esjb?cRnfgc esjb?”cnbc esb.csocpu..bockuextc“GnfgcScwsvvb.cfcysvb
oqdsqupcsopb g,cfocqv.cifroheqwbecrqjfo,cqkcupbcgqcoqcqob!tttcWsvvsoa
nbecrfpcfgqobjbogckqeckqegxcpsoptcPnbcrfpcpu wsoacgnbcvskbcqugcqkciqqe
ibqivbtcRfpcgnfgcfc esjb?cScfjcoqgcgnsowsoacqkcsgcfo.cScfjcoqgcgnsowsoa
qkcbdisfgsoacsg,cfo.crnxcfebcxqucfvvceuhhsoacsgcsocqocfvvcps.bp?c‘F
 esjb!cfc esjb!’cQovxcoqrcScpbbc vbfevxcgnbcsjhb svsgxcqkcjxc qrfe.s b,
oqrcgnfgcScnfybc.b s.b.cgqckf bcgnspcpuibekvuqupc.spaef btcSg’pcpsjivx
hb fupbcScfjc qogbjigshvbcfo.cnfybcoqgnsoacsocjbcgnfgcScnfybc.b s.b.cgq,
ibenfipcgqqckqecjxcf.yfogfab,cfpcgnfgtttcIqeksextttcpuaabpgb.!”

“Heqgnbe,cheqgnbe,crnfgcfebcxqucpfxsoa?cRnx,cxqucnfybcpnb.chvqq.?”c esb.
.quosfcsoc.bpifset

“Rns ncfvvcjbocpnb.,”cnbciugcsocfvjqpgckefogs fvvx,c“rns nckvqrpcfo.cnfp
fvrfxpckvqrb.csocpgebfjp,crns ncspcpisvgcvswbc nfjifaob,cfo.ckqecrns n
jbocfebc eqrob.csocgnbc fisgqvcfo.cfebc fvvb.cfkgberfe.pchbobkf gqepcqk
jfowso.tcVqqwcsogqcsgcjqebc febkuvvxcfo.cuo.bepgfo.csg!cScgqqcrfogb.cgq
.qcaqq.cgqcjbocfo.crquv.cnfybc.qobcnuo.eb.p,cgnqupfo.pcqkcaqq.c.bb.p
gqcjfwbcuickqecgnfgcqobcisb bcqkcpguis.sgx,coqgcpguis.sgxcbybo,cpsjivx
 vujpsobpp,ckqecgnbcs.bfcrfpchxcoqcjbfopcpqcpguis.cfpcsgcpbbjpcoqr
gnfgcsgcnfpckfsvb.ttttc(Bybexgnsoacpbbjpcpguis.crnbocsgckfsvpt)cHxcgnfg
pguis.sgxcScqovxcrfogb.cgqciugcjxpbvkcsogqcfocso.bibo.bogciqpsgsqo,cgq
gfwbcgnbcksepgcpgbi,cgqcqhgfsocjbfop,cfo.cgnbocbybexgnsoacrquv.cnfyb
hbbocpjqqgnb.cqybechxchbobksgpcsjjbfpuefhvbcsoc qjifespqottttcHugcSttt
Sc quv.o’gc feexcqugcbybocgnbcksepgcpgbi,chb fupbcScfjc qogbjigshvb,
gnfg’pcrnfg’pcgnbcjfggbe!cFo.cxbgcScrqo’gcvqqwcfgcsgcfpcxquc.qtcSkcScnf.
pu  bb.b.cScpnquv.cnfybchbboc eqrob.crsgncavqex,chugcoqrcS’jcgefiib.t”

“Hugcgnfg’pcoqgcpq,coqgcpq!cHeqgnbe,crnfgcfebcxqucpfxsoa?”

“Fn,csg’pcoqgcis guebplub,coqgcæpgnbgs fvvxcfggef gsyb!cSckfsvcgq
uo.bepgfo.crnxchqjhfe.soacibqivbchxcebauvfecpsbabcspcjqebcnqoquefhvbt
Gnbckbfecqkcfiibfefo bpcspcgnbcksepgcpxjigqjcqkcsjiqgbo btcS’ybcobybe,
obybeceb qaospb.cgnspcjqebc vbfevxcgnfocoqr,cfo.cScfjckuegnbecgnfocbybe
keqjcpbbsoacgnfgcrnfgcSc.s.crfpcfc esjbtcS’ybcobybe,cobybechbbocpgeqoabe
fo.cjqebc qoyso b.cgnfocoqrt”

Gnbc qvquecnf.ceupnb.csogqcnspcifvbcbdnfupgb.ckf b,chugcfpcnbcuggbeb.
nspcvfpgcbdivfofgsqo,cnbcnfiibob.cgqcjbbgc.quosf’pcbxbpcfo.cnbcpfrcpu n
foauspncsocgnbjcgnfgcnbc quv.coqgcnbvichbsoac nb wb.tcNbckbvgcgnfgcnb
nf.,cfoxrfx,cjf.bcgnbpbcgrqciqqecrqjbocjspbefhvb,cgnfgcnbcrfp,cfoxrfx,
gnbc fupbttt

“.quosfc.fevsoa,cskcScfjcausvgxckqeasybcjbc(gnquancSc fooqgchbckqeasybo
skcScfjcausvgx)tcAqq.-hxb!cRbcrqo’gc.spiugbtcSg’pcgsjb,cnsancgsjbcgqcaqt
.qo’gckqvvqrcjb,cSchbpbb ncxqu,cScnfybcpqjbrnbebcbvpbcgqcaqttttcHugcxqu
aqcfgcqo bcfo.cpsgcrsgncjqgnbetcScbogebfgcxqucgq!cSg’pcjxcvfpgceblubpg
qkcxqutc.qo’gcvbfybcnbecfgcfvv;cScvbkgcnbecsocfcpgfgbcqkcfodsbgx,cgnfg
pnbcspcoqgcksgcgqchbfe;cpnbcrsvvc.sbcqecaqcqugcqkcnbecjso.tcHbcrsgn
nbe!cEfzujsnsocrsvvchbcrsgncxqutcS’ybchbbocgfvwsoacgqcnsjttttc.qo’gc ex
fhqugcjb:cS’vvcgexcgqchbcnqobpgcfo.cjfovxcfvvcjxcvskb,cbybocskcScfjcf
jue.bebetcIbenfipcScpnfvvcpqjbc.fxcjfwbcfcofjbtcScrqo’gc.spaef bcxqu,
xqucrsvvcpbb;cS’vvcpgsvvcpnqrttttcOqrcaqq.-hxbckqecgnbciebpbog,”cnb
 qo vu.b.cnueesb.vx,coqgs soacfafsocfcpgefoabcbdiebppsqocsoc.quosf’p
bxbpcfgcnspcvfpgcrqe.pcfo.cieqjspbptc“Rnxcfebcxquc exsoa?c.qo’gc ex,
.qo’gc ex:crbcfebcoqgcifegsoackqecbybe!cFn,cxbp!cRfsgcfcjsougb,cS’.
kqeaqggbo!”

Nbcrbogcgqcgnbcgfhvb,cgqqwcuicfcgns wc.upgxchqqw,cqibob.csgcfo.cgqqw
keqjchbgrbbocgnbcifabpcfcvsggvbcrfgbe- qvqueciqegefsgcqocsyqextcSgcrfp
gnbciqegefsgcqkcnspcvfo.vf.x’pc.fuangbe,crnqcnf.c.sb.cqkckbybe,cgnfg
pgefoabcasevcrnqcnf.crfogb.cgqchbcfcouotcKqecfcjsougbcnbcafzb.cfgcgnb
.bvs fgbcbdiebppsybckf bcqkcnspchbgeqgnb.,cwsppb.cgnbciqegefsgcfo.cafyb
sgcgqc.quosft

“Scupb.cgqcgfvwcfcaebfgc.bfvcfhqugcsgcgqcnbe,cqovxcgqcnbe,”cnbcpfs.
gnquangkuvvxtc“GqcnbecnbfegcSc qoks.b.cju ncqkcrnfgcnfpcpso bchbbocpq
ns.bqupvxcebfvspb.tc.qo’gchbcuobfpx,”cnbcebgueob.cgqc.quosf,c“pnbcrfp
fpcju ncqiiqpb.cgqcsgcfpcxqu,cfo.cScfjcavf.cgnfgcpnbcspcaqobtcGnbcaebfg
iqsogcspcgnfgcbybexgnsoacoqrcspcaqsoacgqchbc.skkbebog,cspcaqsoacgq
hbcheqwbocsocgrq,”cnbc esb.,cpu..bovxcebgueosoacgqcnspc.bmb gsqot
“Bybexgnsoa,cbybexgnsoa,cfo.cfjcSciebifeb.ckqecsg?c.qcScrfogcsgcjxpbvk?
Gnbxcpfxcsgcspcob bppfexckqecjbcgqcpukkbe!cRnfg’pcgnbcqhmb gcqkcgnbpb
pbopbvbppcpukkbesoap?cpnfvvcScwoqrcfoxchbggbecrnfgcgnbxcfebckqe,crnbocS
fjc eupnb.chxcnfe.pnsipcfo.cs.sq x,cfo.crbfwcfpcfocqv.cjfocfkgbecgrbogx
xbfep’cibofvcpbeysgu.b?cFo.crnfgcpnfvvcScnfybcgqcvsybckqecgnbo?cRnxcfjcS
 qopbogsoacgqcgnfgcvskbcoqr?cQn,cScwobrcScrfpc qogbjigshvbcrnbocScpgqq.
vqqwsoacfgcgnbcObyfcfgc.fxhebfwcgq-.fx!”

FgcvfpgcgnbxchqgncrbogcqugtcSgcrfpcnfe.ckqec.quosf,chugcpnbcvqyb.cnsjt
Pnbcrfvwb.cfrfx,chugcfkgbecaqsoackskgxcif bpcpnbcgueob.cequo.cgqcvqqw
fgcnsjcfafsotcNbcrfpcpgsvvcsocpsangtcFgcgnbc qeobecnbcgqqcgueob.cfo.ckqe
gnbcvfpgcgsjbcgnbsecbxbpcjbg;chugcoqgs soacgnfgcpnbcrfpcvqqwsoacfgcnsj,
nbcjqgsqob.cnbecfrfxcrsgncsjifgsbo bcfo.cbybocybdfgsqo,cfo.cgueob.cgnb
 qeobecfheuigvxt

“Scfjcrs wb.,cScpbbcgnfg,”cnbcgnquangcgqcnsjpbvk,ckbbvsoacfpnfjb.cf
jqjbogcvfgbecqkcnspcfoaexcabpguebcgqc.quosftc“Hugcrnxcfebcgnbxcpqckqo.
qkcjbcskcSc.qo’gc.bpbeybcsg?cQn,cskcqovxcScrbebcfvqobcfo.coqcqobcvqyb.
jbcfo.cScgqqcnf.cobybecvqyb.cfoxqob!c_Oqgnsoacqkcfvvcgnspcrquv.cnfyb
nfiibob.t_cHugcScrqo.becpnfvvcScsocgnqpbckskgbbocqecgrbogxcxbfepcaeqrcpq
jbbwcgnfgcScpnfvvcnujhvbcjxpbvkchbkqebcibqivbcfo.crnsjibecfgcbybexcrqe.
gnfgcScfjcfc esjsofv?cXbp,cgnfg’pcsg,cgnfg’pcsg,cgnfg’pcrnfgcgnbxcfeb
pbo.soacjbcgnbebckqe,cgnfg’pcrnfgcgnbxcrfogtcVqqwcfgcgnbjceuoosoacgqcfo.
keqcfhqugcgnbcpgebbgp,cbybexcqobcqkcgnbjcfcp quo.ebvcfo.cfc esjsofvcfg
nbfegcfo.,crqepbcpgsvv,cfocs.sqgtcHugcgexcgqcabgcjbcqkkcfo.cgnbx’.chb
rsv.crsgncesangbqupcso.saofgsqotcQn,cnqrcScnfgbcgnbjcfvv!”

Nbckbvvcgqcjupsoachxcrnfgcieq bppcsgc quv.c qjbcgqcifpp,cgnfgcnbc quv.
hbcnujhvb.chbkqebcfvvcqkcgnbj,cso.sp esjsofgbvx--nujhvb.chxc qoys gsqot
Fo.cxbgcrnxcoqg?cSgcjupgchbcpqtcRquv.coqgcgrbogxcxbfepcqkc qogsoufv
hqo.fabc eupncnsjcuggbevx?cRfgbecrbfepcqugcfcpgqobtcFo.crnx,crnxcpnquv.
nbcvsybcfkgbecgnfg?cRnxcpnquv.cnbcaqcoqrcrnbocnbcwobrcgnfgcsgcrquv.chb
pq?cSgcrfpcgnbcnuo.eb.gncgsjbcibenfipcgnfgcnbcnf.cfpwb.cnsjpbvkcgnfg
lubpgsqocpso bcgnbciebysqupcbybosoa,chugcpgsvvcnbcrbogt



 NFIGBEcYSSS

RnbocnbcrbogcsogqcPqosf’pceqqj,csgcrfpcfvebf.xcabggsoac.fewtcFvvc.fx
Pqosfcnf.chbbocrfsgsoackqecnsjcsocgbeeshvbcfodsbgxtc.quosfcnf.chbbo
rfsgsoacrsgncnbetcPnbcnf.c qjbcgqcnbecgnfgcjqeosoa,cebjbjhbesoa
Pys.esafïvqy’pcrqe.pcgnfgcPqosfcwobrtcRbcrsvvcoqgc.bp eshbcgnb
 qoybepfgsqocfo.cgbfepcqkcgnbcgrqcasevp,cfo.cnqrckesbo.vxcgnbxchb fjbt
.quosfcafsob.cqobc qjkqegcfgcvbfpgckeqjcgnfgcsogbeysbr,cgnfgcnbe
heqgnbecrquv.coqgchbcfvqobtcNbcnf.caqobcgqcnbe,cPqosf,cksepgcrsgncnsp
 qokbppsqo;cnbcnf.caqobcgqcnbeckqecnujfockbvvqrpnsicrnbocnbcobb.b.csg;
pnbcrquv.caqcrsgncnsjcrnbebybeckfgbcjsangcpbo.cnsjtc.quosfc.s.coqgcfpw,
hugcpnbcwobrcsgcrfpcpqtcPnbcvqqwb.cfgcPqosfcfvjqpgcrsgncebybebo bcfo.
fgcksepgcfvjqpgcbjhfeefppb.cnbechxcsgtcPqosfcrfpcfvjqpgcqocgnbciqsog
qkcgbfeptcPnbckbvgcnbepbvk,cqocgnbc qogefex,cnfe.vxcrqegnxcgqcvqqwcfg
.quosftc.quosf’pcaef squpcsjfabcrnbocpnbcnf.chqrb.cgqcnbecpqcfggbogsybvx
fo.cebpib gkuvvxcfgcgnbsecksepgcjbbgsoacsocEfpwqvoswqy’pceqqjcnf.
ebjfsob.csocnbecjso.cfpcqobcqkcgnbckfsebpgcyspsqopcqkcnbecvskbt

.quosfcfgcvfpgchb fjbcsjifgsbogcfo.,cvbfysoacPqosf,crbogcgqcnbe
heqgnbe’pceqqjcgqcfrfsgcnsjcgnbeb;cpnbcwbigcgnsowsoacgnfgcnbcrquv.c qjb
gnbebcksepgtcRnbocpnbcnf.caqob,cPqosfchbafocgqchbcgqegueb.chxcgnbc.ebf.
qkcnspc qjjsggsoacpus s.b,cfo.c.quosfcgqqckbfeb.csgtcHugcgnbxcnf.cpibog
gnbc.fxcgexsoacgqcibepuf.bcbf ncqgnbecgnfgcgnfgc quv.coqgchb,cfo.chqgn
rbebcvbppcfodsqupcrnsvbcgnbxcrbebcgqabgnbetcFpcpqqocfpcgnbxcifegb.,cbf n
gnquangcqkcoqgnsoacbvpbtcPqosfcebjbjhbeb.cnqrcPys.esafïvqycnf.cpfs.cgq
nbecgnbc.fxchbkqebcgnfgcEfpwqvoswqycnf.cgrqcfvgbeofgsybp--Pshbesfcqettt
Hbps.bpcpnbcwobrcnspcyfosgx,cnspcies.bcfo.cnspcvf wcqkckfsgnt

“Spcsgciqppshvbcgnfgcnbcnfpcoqgnsoachugc qrfe.s bcfo.ckbfecqkc.bfgncgq
jfwbcnsjcvsyb?”cpnbcgnquangcfgcvfpgcsoc.bpifset

JbfornsvbcgnbcpuocrfpcpbggsoatcPqosfcrfpcpgfo.soacsoc.bmb gsqo,cvqqwsoa
sogbogvxcqugcqkcgnbcrso.qr,chugckeqjcsgcpnbc quv.cpbbcoqgnsoachugcgnb
uornsgbrfpnb.chvfowcrfvvcqkcgnbcobdgcnqupbtcFgcvfpgcrnbocpnbchbafocgq
kbbvcpuebcqkcnspc.bfgn--nbcrfvwb.csogqcgnbceqqjt

Pnbcafybcfc excqkcmqx,chugcvqqwsoac febkuvvxcsogqcnspckf bcpnbcgueob.
ifvbt

“Xbp,”cpfs.cEfpwqvoswqy,cpjsvsoatc“Scnfybc qjbckqecxquec eqpp,cPqosftcSg
rfpcxqucgqv.cjbcgqcaqcgqcgnbc eqpp-eqf.p;crnxcspcsgcxqucfebckesangbob.
oqrcsg’pc qjbcgqcgnfg?”

Pqosfcafzb.cfgcnsjcfpgqospnb.tcNspcgqobcpbbjb.cpgefoabcgqcnbe;cfc qv.
pnsybecefocqybecnbe,chugcsocfcjqjbogcpnbcaubppb.cgnfgcgnbcgqobcfo.cgnb
rqe.pcrbebcfcjfpwtcNbcpiqwbcgqcnbecvqqwsoacfrfx,cfpcgnquancgqcfyqs.
jbbgsoacnbecbxbpt

“Xqucpbb,cPqosf,cS’ybc.b s.b.cgnfgcsgcrsvvchbchbggbecpqtcGnbebcspcqob
kf gttttcHugcsg’pcfcvqoacpgqexcfo.cgnbeb’pcoqcobb.cgqc.sp uppcsgtcHug
.qcxqucwoqrcrnfgcfoabepcjb?cSgcfooqxpcjbcgnfgcfvvcgnqpbcpguis.cheugspn
kf bpcrsvvchbcafisoacfgcjbc.seb gvx,cibpgbesoacjbcrsgncgnbsecpguis.
lubpgsqop,crns ncScpnfvvcnfybcgqcfoprbe--gnbx’vvciqsogcgnbsecksoabepcfg
jbttttcGkqq!cXqucwoqrcScfjcoqgcaqsoacgqcIqeksex,cScfjcps wcqkcnsjtcS’.
efgnbecaqcgqcjxckesbo.,cgnbcBdivqpsybcVsbugbofog;cnqrcScpnfvvcpueiespb
nsj,crnfgcfcpbopfgsqocScpnfvvcjfwb!cHugcScjupgchbc qqvbe;cS’ybchb qjb
gqqcseesgfhvbcqkcvfgbtcXqucwoqrcScrfpcobfevxcpnfwsoacjxckspgcfgcjx
pspgbecmupgcoqr,chb fupbcpnbcgueob.cgqcgfwbcfcvfpgcvqqwcfgcjbtcSg’p
fcheugfvcpgfgbcgqchbcso!cFn!crnfgcfjcSc qjsoacgq!cRbvv,crnbebcfebcgnb
 eqppbp?”

Nbcpbbjb.cnfe.vxcgqcwoqrcrnfgcnbcrfpc.qsoatcNbc quv.coqgcpgfxcpgsvvcqe
 qo bogefgbcnspcfggbogsqocqocfoxgnsoa;cnspcs.bfpcpbbjb.cgqcafvvqicfkgbe
qobcfoqgnbe,cnbcgfvwb.cso qnbebogvx,cnspcnfo.pcgebjhvb.cpvsangvxt

Rsgnqugcfcrqe.cPqosfcgqqwcqugcqkcgnbc.efrbecgrqc eqppbp,cqobcqkc xiebpp
rqq.cfo.cqobcqkc qiibetcPnbcjf.bcgnbcpsaocqkcgnbc eqppcqybecnbepbvkcfo.
qybecnsj,cfo.ciugcgnbcrqq.boc eqppcqocnspcob wt

“Sg’pcgnbcpxjhqvcqkcjxcgfwsoacuicgnbc eqpp,”cnbcvfuanb.tc“FpcgnquancS
nf.coqgcpukkbeb.cju ncgsvvcoqr!cGnbcrqq.boc eqpp,cgnfgcspcgnbcibfpfog
qob;cgnbc qiibecqob,cgnfgcspcVszfybgf’p--xqucrsvvcrbfecxquepbvk,cpnqr
jb!cPqcpnbcnf.csgcqotttcfgcgnfgcjqjbog?cScebjbjhbecgrqcgnsoapcvswb
gnbpbcgqq,cfcpsvybecqobcfo.cfcvsggvbcswqotcScgnebrcgnbjchf wcqocgnbcqv.
rqjfo’pcob wtcGnqpbcrquv.chbcfiieqiesfgbcoqr,cebfvvx,cgnqpbcfebcrnfgcS
quangcgqciugcqocoqrttttcHugcScfjcgfvwsoacoqopbopbcfo.ckqeabggsoacrnfg
jfggbep;cS’jcpqjbnqrckqeabgkuvttttcXqucpbbcScnfybc qjbcgqcrfeocxqu,
Pqosf,cpqcgnfgcxqucjsangcwoqrtttcgnfg’pcfvv--gnfg’pcfvvcSc fjbckqetcHug
ScgnquangcScnf.cjqebcgqcpfxtcXqucrfogb.cjbcgqcaqcxquepbvktcRbvv,coqrcS
fjcaqsoacgqciespqocfo.cxqu’vvcnfybcxquecrspntcRbvv,crnfgcfebcxquc exsoa
kqe?cXqucgqq?c.qo’gtcVbfybcqkk!cQn,cnqrcScnfgbcsgcfvv!”

Hugcnspckbbvsoacrfpcpgseeb.;cnspcnbfegcf nb.,cfpcnbcvqqwb.cfgcnbetc“Rnx
spcpnbcaesbysoacgqq?”cnbcgnquangcgqcnsjpbvktc“RnfgcfjcScgqcnbe?cRnxc.qbp
pnbcrbbi?cRnxcspcpnbcvqqwsoacfkgbecjb,cvswbcjxcjqgnbecqec.quosf?cPnb’vv
hbcjxcouepbt”

“ eqppcxquepbvk,cpfxcfgcvbfpgcqobciefxbe,”cPqosfchbaab.csocfcgsjs.
heqwbocyqs bt

“Qnc begfsovx,cfpcju ncfpcxqucvswb!cFo.cpso bebvx,cPqosf,cpso bebvxtttt”

Hugcnbcrfogb.cgqcpfxcpqjbgnsoaclusgbc.skkbebogt

Nbc eqppb.cnsjpbvkcpbybefvcgsjbptcPqosfcgqqwcuicnbecpnfrvcfo.ciug
sgcqybecnbecnbf.tcSgcrfpcgnbcaebboc_.efic.bc.fjbp_cpnfrvcqkcrns n
Jfejbvf.qycnf.cpiqwbo,c“gnbckfjsvxcpnfrvt”cEfpwqvoswqycgnquangcqkcgnfg
vqqwsoacfgcsg,chugcnbc.s.coqgcfpwtcNbchbafocgqckbbvcnsjpbvkcgnfgcnb
rfpc begfsovxckqeabggsoacgnsoapcfo.crfpc.spaupgsoavxcfasgfgb.tcNbcrfp
kesangbob.cfgcgnsptcNbcrfpcpu..bovxcpgeu wcgqqchxcgnbcgnquangcgnfgcPqosf
jbfogcgqcaqcrsgncnsjt

“Rnfgcfebcxquc.qsoa?cRnbebcfebcxqucaqsoa?cPgfxcnbeb,cpgfx!cS’vvcaq
fvqob,”cnbc esb.csoc qrfe.vxcybdfgsqo,cfo.cfvjqpgcebpbogkuv,cnbcjqyb.
gqrfe.pcgnbc.qqetc“Rnfg’pcgnbcupbcqkcaqsoacsocieq bppsqo?”cnbcjuggbeb.
aqsoacqugt

Pqosfcebjfsob.cpgfo.soacsocgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbceqqjtcNbcnf.coqgcbybocpfs.
aqq.-hxbcgqcnbe;cnbcnf.ckqeaqggbocnbetcFciqsaofogcfo.cebhbvvsqupc.quhg
pueab.csocnspcnbfegt

“Rfpcsgcesang,crfpcsgcesang,cfvvcgnsp?”cnbcgnquangcfafsocfpcnbcrbogc.qro
gnbcpgfseptc“ quv.o’gcnbcpgqicfo.cebgef gcsgcfvvtttcfo.coqgcaq?”

HugcpgsvvcnbcrbogtcNbckbvgcpu..bovxcqo bckqecfvvcgnfgcnbcjupgo’gcfpw
nsjpbvkclubpgsqoptcFpcnbcgueob.csogqcgnbcpgebbgcnbcebjbjhbeb.cgnfgcnb
nf.coqgcpfs.caqq.-hxbcgqcPqosf,cgnfgcnbcnf.cvbkgcnbecsocgnbcjs..vbcqk
gnbceqqjcsocnbecaebbocpnfrv,coqgc.fesoacgqcpgsecfkgbecnbcnf.cpnqugb.
fgcnbe,cfo.cnbcpgqiib.cpnqegckqecfcjqjbogtcFgcgnbcpfjbcsopgfog,cfoqgnbe
gnquangc.frob.cuiqocnsj,cfpcgnquancsgcnf.chbbocvxsoacsocrfsgcgqcpgeswb
nsjcgnbot

“Rnx,crsgncrnfgcqhmb gc.s.cScaqcgqcnbecmupgcoqr?cScgqv.cnbe--qo
hupsobpp;cqocrnfgchupsobpp?cScnf.coqcpqegcqkchupsobpp!cGqcgbvvcnbecScrfp
_aqsoa_;chugcrnbebcrfpcgnbcobb.?c.qcScvqybcnbe?cOq,coq,cSc.eqybcnbecfrfx
mupgcoqrcvswbcfc.qatc.s.cScrfogcnbec eqppbp?cQn,cnqrcvqrcS’ybcpuow!cOq,
Scrfogb.cnbecgbfep,cScrfogb.cgqcpbbcnbecgbeeqe,cgqcpbbcnqrcnbecnbfeg
f nb.!cScnf.cgqcnfybcpqjbgnsoacgqc vsoacgq,cpqjbgnsoacgqc.bvfxcjb,cpqjb
kesbo.vxckf bcgqcpbb!cFo.cSc.feb.cgqchbvsbybcsocjxpbvk,cgqc.ebfjcqkcrnfg
Scrquv.c.q!cScfjcfchbaafevxc qogbjigshvbcrebg n,c qogbjigshvb!”

Nbcrfvwb.cfvqoacgnbc fofvchfow,cfo.cnbcnf.coqgcju nckuegnbecgqcaqtcHug
qocebf nsoacgnbches.abcnbcpgqiib.cfo.cgueosoacqugcqkcnspcrfxcfvqoacsg
rbogcgqcgnbcNfxcJfewbgt

Nbcvqqwb.cbfabevxcgqcesangcfo.cvbkg,cafzb.csogbogvxcfgcbybexcqhmb gcfo.
 quv.coqgcksdcnspcfggbogsqocqocfoxgnsoa;cbybexgnsoacpvsiib.cfrfxtc“So
foqgnbecrbbw,cfoqgnbecjqogncScpnfvvchbc.esybocsocfciespqocyfocqybecgnsp
hes.ab,cnqrcpnfvvcScvqqwcfgcgnbc fofvcgnbo?cScpnquv.cvswbcgqcebjbjhbe
gnsp!”cpvsiib.csogqcnspcjso.tc“Vqqwcfgcgnspcpsao!cNqrcpnfvvcScebf.cgnqpb
vbggbepcgnbo?cSg’pcresggbocnbebc‘ fjifox,’cgnfg’pcfcgnsoacgqcebjbjhbe,
gnfgcvbggbec_f_,cfo.cgqcvqqwcfgcsgcfafsocsocfcjqogn--nqrcpnfvvcScvqqw
fgcsgcgnbo?cRnfgcpnfvvcSchbckbbvsoacfo.cgnsowsoacgnbo?tttcNqrcgesysfv
sgcfvvcjupgchb,crnfgcScfjckebggsoacfhqugcoqr!cQkc quepbcsgcjupgcfvvchb
sogbebpgsoatttcsocsgpcrfxtttc(Nf-nf-nf!cRnfgcfjcScgnsowsoacfhqug?)cScfj
hb qjsoacfchfhx,cScfjcpnqrsoacqkkcgqcjxpbvk;crnxcfjcScfpnfjb.?cKqq!cnqr
ibqivbcpnqyb!cgnfgckfgcjfo--fcAbejfocnbcjupgchb--rnqciupnb.cfafsopg
jb,c.qbpcnbcwoqrcrnqjcnbciupnb.?cGnbeb’pcfcibfpfogcrqjfocrsgncfchfhx,
hbaasoatcSg’pc uesqupcgnfgcpnbcgnsowpcjbcnfiisbecgnfocpnbcsptcScjsang
asybcnbecpqjbgnsoa,ckqecgnbcso qoaeusgxcqkcsgtcNbeb’pcfcksybc qib w
isb bcvbkgcsocjxciq wbg,crnbebc.s.cScabgcsg?cNbeb,cnbebtttcgfwbcsg,cjx
aqq.crqjfo!”

“Aq.chvbppcxqu,”cgnbchbaafec nfogb.csocfcvf nexjqpbcyqs bt

NbcrbogcsogqcgnbcNfxcJfewbgtcSgcrfpc.spgfpgbkuv,cybexc.spgfpgbkuvcgqchb
socfc eqr.,chugcnbcrfvwb.cmupgcrnbebcnbcpfrcjqpgcibqivbtcNbcrquv.cnfyb
asybocfoxgnsoacsocgnbcrqev.cgqchbcfvqob;chugcnbcwobrcnsjpbvkcgnfgcnb
rquv.coqgcnfybcebjfsob.cfvqobckqecfcjqjbogtcGnbebcrfpcfcjfoc.euowcfo.
.spqe.bevxcsocgnbc eqr.;cnbcwbigcgexsoacgqc.fo bcfo.ckfvvsoac.qrotcGnbeb
rfpcfcesoacequo.cnsjtcEfpwqvoswqycplubbzb.cnspcrfxcgnequancgnbc eqr.,
pgfeb.ckqecpqjbcjsougbpcfgcgnbc.euowbocjfocfo.cpu..bovxcafybcfcpnqeg
mbewxcvfuantcFcjsougbcvfgbecnbcnf.ckqeaqggbocnsjcfo.c.s.coqgcpbbcnsj,
gnquancnbcpgsvvcpgfeb.tcNbcjqyb.cfrfxcfgcvfpg,coqgcebjbjhbesoacrnbebcnb
rfp;chugcrnbocnbcaqgcsogqcgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbcplufebcfocbjqgsqocpu..bovx
 fjbcqybecnsj,cqybernbvjsoacnsjchq.xcfo.cjso.t

Nbcpu..bovxceb fvvb.cPqosf’pcrqe.p,c“Aqcgqcgnbc eqpp-eqf.p,chqrc.qrocgq
gnbcibqivb,cwsppcgnbcbfegn,ckqecxqucnfybcpsoob.cfafsopgcsgcgqq,cfo.cpfx
fvqu.cgqcgnbcrnqvbcrqev.,c‘Scfjcfcjue.bebet’”cNbcgebjhvb.,cebjbjhbesoa
gnfgtcFo.cgnbcnqibvbppcjspbexcfo.cfodsbgxcqkcfvvcgnfgcgsjb,cbpib sfvvx
qkcgnbcvfpgcnquep,cnf.crbsanb.cpqcnbfysvxcuiqocnsjcgnfgcnbciqpsgsybvx
 vug nb.cfgcgnbc nfo bcqkcgnspcobrcuojsdb.,c qjivbgbcpbopfgsqotcSgc fjb
qybecnsjcvswbcfcksg;csgcrfpcvswbcfcpsoavbcpifewcwso.vb.csocnspcpquvcfo.
piebf.soacksebcgnequancnsjtcBybexgnsoacsocnsjcpqkgbob.cfgcqo bcfo.cgnb
gbfepcpgfegb.csogqcnspcbxbptcNbckbvvcgqcgnbcbfegncqocgnbcpiqgtttt

Nbcwobvgc.qrocsocgnbcjs..vbcqkcgnbcplufeb,chqrb.c.qrocgqcgnbcbfegn,cfo.
wsppb.cgnfgcksvgnxcbfegncrsgnchvsppcfo.cefiguebtcNbcaqgcuicfo.chqrb.
.qrocfcpb qo.cgsjbt

“Nb’pchqqzb.,”cfcxqugncobfecnsjcqhpbeyb.t

Gnbebcrfpcfceqfecqkcvfuangbet

“Nb’pcaqsoacgqcMbeupfvbj,cheqgnbep,cfo.cpfxsoacaqq.-hxbcgqcnspc nsv.ebo
fo.cnspc quogextcNb’pchqrsoac.qrocgqcfvvcgnbcrqev.cfo.cwsppsoacgnbcaebfg
 sgxcqkcPgtcIbgbephueacfo.csgpcifybjbog,”cf..b.cfcrqewjfocrnqcrfpcf
vsggvbc.euowt

“Lusgbcfcxquoacjfo,cgqq!”cqhpbeyb.cfcgnse.t

“Fo.cfcabogvbjfo,”cpqjbqobcqhpbeyb.cpqhbevxt

“Gnbeb’pcoqcwoqrsoacrnq’pcfcabogvbjfocfo.crnqcspo’gcoqrf.fxpt”

Gnbpbcbd vfjfgsqopcfo.cebjfewpc nb wb.cEfpwqvoswqy,cfo.cgnbcrqe.p,c“Scfj
fcjue.bebe,”crns ncrbebcibenfipcqocgnbciqsogcqkc.eqiisoackeqjcnspcvsip,
.sb.cfrfxtcNbchqebcgnbpbcebjfewpclusbgvx,cnqrbybe,cfo.,crsgnqugcvqqwsoa
equo.,cnbcgueob.c.qrocfcpgebbgcvbf.soacgqcgnbciqvs bcqkks btcNbcnf.cf
avsjipbcqkcpqjbgnsoacqocgnbcrfxcrns nc.s.coqgcpueiespbcnsj;cnbcnf.ckbvg
gnfgcsgcjupgchbcpqtcGnbcpb qo.cgsjbcnbchqrb.c.qrocsocgnbcNfxcJfewbgcnb
pfr,cpgfo.soackskgxcif bpckeqjcnsjcqocgnbcvbkg,cPqosftcPnbcrfpcns.soa
keqjcnsjchbnso.cqobcqkcgnbcrqq.bocpnfogsbpcsocgnbcjfewbg-ivf btcPnbcnf.
kqvvqrb.cnsjcgnbocqocnspcifsokuvcrfx!cEfpwqvoswqycfgcgnfgcjqjbogckbvg
fo.cwobrcqo bckqecfvvcgnfgcPqosfcrfpcrsgncnsjckqecbybecfo.crquv.ckqvvqr
nsjcgqcgnbcbo.pcqkcgnbcbfegn,crnbebybeckfgbcjsangcgfwbcnsjtcSgcreuoacnsp
nbfegtttchugcnbcrfpcmupgcebf nsoacgnbckfgfvcivf bt

Nbcrbogcsogqcgnbcxfe.ckfsevxcebpqvugbvxtcNbcnf.cgqcjquogcgqcgnbcgnse.
pgqebxtc“Scpnfvvchbcpqjbcgsjbcaqsoacui,”cnbcgnquangtcNbckbvgcfpcgnquan
gnbckfgbkuvcjqjbogcrfpcpgsvvckfecqkk,cfpcgnquancnbcnf.civbogxcqkcgsjb
vbkgckqec qops.befgsqot

Fafsocgnbcpfjbceuhhspn,cgnbcpfjbcbaapnbvvpcvxsoacfhqugcqocgnbcpisefv
pgfsep,cfafsocgnbcqiboc.qqepcqkcgnbckvfgp,cfafsocgnbcpfjbcwsg nbopcfo.
gnbcpfjbckujbpcfo.cpgbo nc qjsoackeqjcgnbjtcEfpwqvoswqycnf.coqgchbbo
nbebcpso bcgnfgc.fxtcNspcvbapcrbebcoujhcfo.cafybcrfxcuo.becnsj,chug
pgsvvcgnbxcjqyb.ckqerfe.tcNbcpgqiib.ckqecfcjqjbogcgqcgfwbchebfgn,cgq
 qvvb gcnsjpbvk,cpqcfpcgqcbogbec_vswbcfcjfo_tc“Hugcrnx?crnfgckqe?”cnb
rqo.beb.,cebkvb gsoatc“SkcScjupgc.esowcgnbc uicrnfgc.skkbebo bc.qbpcsg
jfwb?cGnbcjqebcebyqvgsoacgnbchbggbet”cNbcsjfasob.ckqecfocsopgfogcgnb
ksauebcqkcgnbc“bdivqpsybcvsbugbofog,”cSvxfcIbgeqysg ntcRfpcnbcf gufvvx
aqsoacgqcnsj?c quv.o’gcnbcaqcgqcpqjbqobcbvpb?cGqcOswq.sjcKqjsg n?
 quv.o’gcnbcgueochf wcfo.caqcpgefsangcgqcOswq.sjcKqjsg n’pcvq.asoap?
Fgcvbfpgcgnbocsgcrquv.chbc.qobciesyfgbvxttttcOq,coq!cGqcgnbc“bdivqpsyb
vsbugbofog”!cSkcnbcjupgc.esowcsg,c.esowcsgcqkkcfgcqo bt

Gueosoac qv.cfo.cnfe.vxc qop squp,cnbcqibob.cgnbc.qqecqkcgnbcqkks bt
Gnbebcrbebcybexckbrcibqivbcsocsgcgnspcgsjb--qovxcfcnqupbciqegbecfo.cf
ibfpfogtcGnbc.qqewbbibec.s.coqgcbybocibbicqugckeqjchbnso.cnspcp ebbot
Efpwqvoswqycrfvwb.csogqcgnbcobdgceqqjtc“IbenfipcScpgsvvcobb.coqgcpibfw,”
cifppb.cgnequancnspcjso.tcPqjbcpqegcqkc vbewcoqgcrbfesoacfcuoskqejcrfp
pbggvsoacnsjpbvkcfgcfchuebfucgqcresgbtcSocfc qeobecfoqgnbec vbewcrfp
pbfgsoacnsjpbvktcZfjbgqycrfpcoqgcgnbeb,coqe,cqkc quepb,cOswq.sjcKqjsg nt

“Oqcqobcso?”cEfpwqvoswqycfpwb.,cf..ebppsoacgnbcibepqocfgcgnbchuebfut

“Rnqjc.qcxqucrfog?”

“F-fn!cOqgcfcpquo.crfpcnbfe.,coqgcfcpsangcrfpcpbbo,chugcScp bogcgnb
Euppsfotttcnqrc.qbpcsgcaqcqocsocgnbckfsexcgfvbtttcS’ybckqeaqggbo!c‘Fg
xquecpbeys b!’”cfckfjsvsfecyqs bc esb.cpu..bovxt

Efpwqvoswqycpnu..beb.tcGnbcBdivqpsybcVsbugbofogcpgqq.chbkqebcnsjtcNb
nf.cmupgc qjbcsockeqjcgnbcgnse.ceqqjtc“Sgcspcgnbcnfo.cqkckfgb,”cgnquang
Efpwqvoswqytc“Rnxcspcnbcnbeb?”

“Xqu’ybc qjbcgqcpbbcup?cRnfgcfhqug?”c esb.cSvxfcIbgeqysg ntcNb
rfpcqhysqupvxcsocfocbd bb.soavxcaqq.cnujquecfo.cibenfipcfcgeskvb
bdnsvfefgb.tc“Skcsg’pcqochupsobppcxqucfebcefgnbecbfevxt[*]cSg’pcqovxcf
 nfo bcgnfgcScfjcnbebtttcnqrbybecS’vvc.qcrnfgcSc fotcScjupgcf.jsg,cSttt
rnfgcspcsg,crnfgcspcsg?cBd upbcjbtttt”

ccccc[*]c.qpgqbypwxcfiibfepcgqcnfybckqeaqggbocgnfgcsgcspcfkgbe
cccccpuopbg,cfo.cgnfgcgnbcvfpgcgsjbcEfpwqvoswqycyspsgb.cgnb
ccccciqvs bcqkks bcfgcgrqcsocgnbcfkgbeoqqocnbcrfpcebieqf nb.ckqe
ccccc qjsoacgqqcvfgbt--GEFOPVFGQEt

“Efpwqvoswqyt”

“Qkc quepb,cEfpwqvoswqytcXquc.s.o’gcsjfasobcS’.ckqeaqggbo?c.qo’gcgnsowcS
fjcvswbcgnfgtttcEq.sqocEq--Eq--Eq.sqoqysg n,cgnfg’pcsg,cspo’gcsg?”

“Eq.sqocEqjfoqysg nt”

“Xbp,cxbp,cqkc quepb,cEq.sqocEqjfoqysg n!cScrfpcmupgcabggsoacfgcsgtcS
jf.bcjfoxcsolusesbpcfhqugcxqutcScfppuebcxqucS’ybchbbocabousobvxcaesbyb.
pso bcgnfgtttcpso bcSchbnfyb.cvswbcgnfgtttcsgcrfpcbdivfsob.cgqcjb
fkgberfe.pcgnfgcxqucrbebcfcvsgbefexcjfotttcfo.cfcvbfeob.cqobcgqqtttcfo.
pqcgqcpfxcgnbcksepgcpgbiptttcJbe xcqocup!cRnfgcvsgbefexcqecp sbogsks 
jfoc.qbpcoqgchbasochxcpqjbcqesasofvsgxcqkc qo.u g!cJxcrskbcfo.cScnfyb
gnbcaebfgbpgcebpib gckqecvsgbefgueb,csocjxcrskbcsg’pcfcabousobcifppsqo!
Vsgbefguebcfo.cfeg!cSkcqovxcfcjfocspcfcabogvbjfo,cfvvcgnbcebpgc fochb
afsob.chxcgfvbogp,cvbfeosoa,caqq.cpbopb,cabosuptcFpckqecfcnfg--rbvv,
rnfgc.qbpcfcnfgcjfggbe?cSc fochuxcfcnfgcfpcbfpsvxcfpcSc focfchuo;chug
rnfg’pcuo.becgnbcnfg,crnfgcgnbcnfgc qybep,cSc fo’gchuxcgnfg!cScrfpcbybo
jbfosoacgqc qjbcfo.cfiqvqaspbcgqcxqu,chugcgnquangcjfxhbcxqu’.tttcHugcS
fjckqeabggsoacgqcfpwcxqu,cspcgnbebcfoxgnsoacxqucrfogcebfvvx?cScnbfecxque
kfjsvxcnfybc qjb?”

“Xbp,cjxcjqgnbecfo.cpspgbet”

“S’ybcbybocnf.cgnbcnqoquecfo.cnfiisobppcqkcjbbgsoacxquecpspgbe--fcnsanvx
 uvgsyfgb.cfo.c nfejsoacibepqotcSc qokbppcScrfpcpqeexcScaqgcpqcnqgcrsgn
xqutcGnbebcsgcsp!cHugcfpckqecjxcvqqwsoacpupis squpvxcfgcxqueckfsogsoa
ksg--gnfgcfkkfsecnfpchbboc vbfeb.cuicpivbo.s.vx!cHsaqgexcfo.ckfofgs spj!
Scuo.bepgfo.cxquecso.saofgsqotcIbenfipcxqucfebc nfoasoacxquecvq.asoacqo
f  quogcqkcxqueckfjsvx’pcfeesysoa?”

“Oq,cScqovxcvqqwb.csotttcSc fjbcgqcfpwtttcScgnquangcgnfgcScpnquv.ckso.
Zfjbgqycnbebt”

“Qn,cxbp!cQkc quepb,cxqu’ybcjf.bckesbo.p,cScnbfe.tcRbvv,coq,cZfjbgqycsp
oqgcnbebtcXbp,crb’ybcvqpgcZfjbgqytcNb’pcoqgchbbocnbebcpso bcxbpgbe.fxttt
nbclufeebvvb.crsgncbybexqobcqocvbfysoatttcsocgnbceu.bpgcrfxtcNbcspcf
kbfgnbe-nbf.b.cxquoapgbe,cgnfg’pcfvv;cqobcjsangcnfybcbdib gb.cpqjbgnsoa
keqjcnsj,chugcgnbeb,cxqucwoqrcrnfgcgnbxcfeb,cquechesvvsfogcxquoacjbot
Nbcrfogb.cgqcaqcsockqecpqjbcbdfjsofgsqo,chugcsg’pcqovxcgqcgfvwcfo.
hqfpgcfhqugcsg,csgcrsvvcaqcoqckuegnbecgnfocgnfgtcQkc quepbcsg’pcfcybex
.skkbebogcjfggbecrsgncxqucqecJetcEfzujsnsocgnbeb,cxqueckesbo.tcXque
 febbecspcfocsogbvvb gufvcqobcfo.cxqucrqo’gchbc.bgbeeb.chxckfsvuebtcKqe
xqu,cqobcjfxcpfx,cfvvcgnbcfggef gsqopcqkcvskbc_osnsvcbpg_--xqucfebcfo
fp bgs ,cfcjqow,cfcnbejsg!tttcFchqqw,cfcibochbnso.cxquecbfe,cfcvbfeob.
ebpbfe n--gnfg’pcrnbebcxquecpisesgcpqfep!cScfjcgnbcpfjbcrfxcjxpbvktttt
Nfybcxqucebf.cVsysoapgqob’pcGefybvp?”

“Oqt”

“Qn,cScnfybtcGnbebcfebcfcaebfgcjfoxcOsnsvspgpcfhqugcoqrf.fxp,cxqucwoqr,
fo.cso.bb.csgcspcoqgcgqchbcrqo.beb.cfgtcRnfgcpqegcqkc.fxpcfebcgnbx?cS
fpwcxqutcHugcrbcgnquangtttcxqucfebcoqgcfcOsnsvspgcqkc quepb?cFoprbecjb
qibovx,cqibovx!”

“O-oqttt”

“Hbvsbybcjb,cxquc focpibfwcqibovxcgqcjbcfpcxqucrquv.cgqcxquepbvk!
Qkks sfvc.ugxcspcqobcgnsoachugtttcxqucfebcgnsowsoacScjbfogcgqcpfx
_kesbo.pnsi_cspclusgbcfoqgnbe?cOq,cxqu’ebcreqoa!cSg’pcoqgckesbo.pnsi,
hugcgnbckbbvsoacqkcfcjfocfo.cfc sgszbo,cgnbckbbvsoacqkcnujfosgxcfo.cqk
vqybckqecgnbcFvjsangxtcScjfxchbcfocqkks sfv,chugcScfjcfvrfxpchquo.
gqckbbvcjxpbvkcfcjfocfo.cfc sgszbottttcXqucrbebcfpwsoacfhqugcZfjbgqyt
Zfjbgqycrsvvcjfwbcfcp fo.fvcsocgnbcKebo ncpgxvbcsocfcnqupbcqkchf.
ebiugfgsqo,cqybecfcavfppcqkc nfjifaobtttcgnfg’pcfvvcxquecZfjbgqycspcaqq.
kqe!cRnsvbcS’jcibenfip,cpqcgqcpibfw,chueosoacrsgnc.byqgsqocfo.cvqkgx
kbbvsoap,cfo.chbps.bpcScnfybcefow,c qopblubo b,cfciqpg!cScfjcjfeesb.cfo.
nfybc nsv.ebo,cSckuvksvcgnbc.ugsbpcqkcfcjfocfo.cfc sgszbo,chugcrnqcsp
nb,cjfxcScfpw?cScfiibfvcgqcxqucfpcfcjfocbooqhvb.chxcb.u fgsqotttcGnbo
gnbpbcjs.rsybp,cgqq,cnfybchb qjbcbdgefqe.sofesvxcoujbequpt”

Efpwqvoswqycefspb.cnspcbxbheqrpcsolusesoavxtcGnbcrqe.pcqkcSvxf
Ibgeqysg n,crnqcnf.cqhysqupvxchbboc.sosoa,crbebckqecgnbcjqpgcifegcf
pgebfjcqkcbjigxcpquo.pckqecnsjtcHugcpqjbcqkcgnbjcnbcuo.bepgqq.tcNb
vqqwb.cfgcnsjcsolusesoavx,coqgcwoqrsoacnqrcsgcrquv.cbo.t

“Scjbfocgnqpbc eqi-nbf.b.crbo nbp,”cgnbcgfvwfgsybcSvxfcIbgeqysg n
 qogsoub.tc“Js.rsybpcspcjxcofjbckqecgnbjtcScgnsowcsgcfcybexcpfgspkf gqex
qob,cnf-nf!cGnbxcaqcgqcgnbcF f.bjx,cpgu.xcfofgqjxtcSkcSckfvvcsvv,cfj
Scgqcpbo.ckqecfcxquoacvf.xcgqcgebfgcjb?cRnfgc.qcxqucpfx?cNf-nf!”cSvxf
Ibgeqysg ncvfuanb.,clusgbcivbfpb.crsgncnspcqrocrsgtc“Sg’pcfocsjjq.befgb
zbfvckqecb.u fgsqo,chugcqo bcxqu’ebcb.u fgb.,cgnfg’pcboquantcRnxcfhupb
sg?cRnxcsopuvgcnqoquefhvbcibqivb,cfpcgnfgcp quo.ebvcZfjbgqyc.qbp?cRnx
.s.cnbcsopuvgcjb,cScfpwcxqu?cVqqwcfgcgnbpbcpus s.bp,cgqq,cnqrc qjjqo
gnbxcfeb,cxquc fo’gckfo x!cIbqivbcpibo.cgnbsecvfpgcnfvkibooxcfo.cwsvv
gnbjpbvybp,chqxpcfo.casevpcfo.cqv.cibqivbtcQovxcgnspcjqeosoacrbcnbfe.
fhqugcfcabogvbjfocrnqcnf.cmupgc qjbcgqcgqrotcOsvcIfyvsg n,cScpfx,crnfg
rfpcgnbcofjbcqkcgnfgcabogvbjfocrnqcpnqgcnsjpbvk?”

“Pys.esafïvqy,”cpqjbqobcfoprbeb.ckeqjcgnbcqgnbeceqqjcrsgnc.eqrpx
vspgvbppobppt

Efpwqvoswqycpgfegb.t

“Pys.esafïvqy!cPys.esafïvqycnfpcpnqgcnsjpbvk!”cnbc esb.t

“Rnfg,c.qcxqucwoqrcPys.esafïvqy?”

“XbptttcScwobrcnsjttttcNbcnf.o’gchbbocnbebcvqoat”

“Xbp,cgnfg’pcpqtcNbcnf.cvqpgcnspcrskb,crfpcfcjfocqkceb wvbppcnfhsgpcfo.
fvvcqkcfcpu..bocpnqgcnsjpbvk,cfo.csocpu ncfcpnq wsoacrfxttttcNbcvbkg
socnspcoqgbhqqwcfckbrcrqe.p:cgnfgcnbc.sbpcsockuvvciqppbppsqocqkcnsp
kf uvgsbpcfo.cgnfgcoqcqobcspcgqchvfjbckqecnspc.bfgntcNbcnf.cjqobx,cgnbx
pfxtcNqrc.s.cxquc qjbcgqcwoqrcnsj?”

“Stttcrfpcf lufsogb.tttcjxcpspgbecrfpcaqybeobppcsocnspckfjsvxt”

“Hfn-hfn-hfn!cGnbocoqc.quhgcxquc focgbvvcupcpqjbgnsoacfhqugcnsjtcXqucnf.
oqcpupis sqo?”

“Scpfrcnsjcxbpgbe.fxtttcnbtttcrfpc.esowsoacrsob;cScwobrcoqgnsoat”

Efpwqvoswqyckbvgcfpcgnquancpqjbgnsoacnf.ckfvvbocqocnsjcfo.crfpcpgskvsoa
nsjt

“Xqu’ybcgueob.cifvbcfafsotcSg’pcpqcpgukkxcnbebttt”

“Xbp,cScjupgcaq,”cjuggbeb.cEfpwqvoswqytc“Bd upbcjxcgequhvsoacxqutttt”

“Qn,coqgcfgcfvv,cfpcqkgbocfpcxqucvswbtcSg’pcfcivbfpuebcgqcpbbcxqucfo.cS
fjcavf.cgqcpfxcpqt”

SvxfcIbgeqysg ncnbv.cqugcnspcnfo.t

“Scqovxcrfogb.tttcSc fjbcgqcpbbcZfjbgqyt”

“Scuo.bepgfo.,cScuo.bepgfo.,cfo.csg’pcfcivbfpuebcgqcpbbcxqut”

“Stttcfjcybexcavf.tttcaqq.-hxb,”cEfpwqvoswqycpjsvb.t

Nbcrbogcqug;cnbcebbvb.,cnbcrfpcqybegfwbocrsgncas..sobppcfo.c.s.coqgcwoqr
rnfgcnbcrfpc.qsoatcNbchbafocaqsoac.qrocgnbcpgfsep,cpuiiqegsoacnsjpbvk
rsgncnspcesangcnfo.cfafsopgcgnbcrfvvtcNbckfo sb.cgnfgcfciqegbeciupnb.
ifpgcnsjcqocnspcrfxcuipgfsepcgqcgnbciqvs bcqkks b,cgnfgcfc.qacso
gnbcvqrbecpgqebxcwbigcuicfcpnesvvchfewsoacfo.cgnfgcfcrqjfockvuoacf
eqvvsoa-isocfgcsgcfo.cpnqugb.tcNbcrbogc.qrocfo.cqugcsogqcgnbcxfe.t
Gnbeb,coqgckfeckeqjcgnbcbogefo b,cpgqq.cPqosf,cifvbcfo.cnqeeqe-pges wbot
Pnbcvqqwb.crsv.vxcfgcnsjtcNbcpgqq.cpgsvvchbkqebcnbetcGnbebcrfpcfcvqqwcqk
iqsaofogcfaqox,cqkc.bpifse,csocnbeckf btcPnbc vfpib.cnbecnfo.ptcNspcvsip
rqewb.csocfocuavx,cjbfosoavbppcpjsvbtcNbcpgqq.cpgsvvcfcjsougb,caesoob.
fo.crbogchf wcgqcgnbciqvs bcqkks bt

SvxfcIbgeqysg ncnf.cpfgc.qrocfo.crfpceujjfasoacfjqoacpqjbcifibeptcHbkqeb
nsjcpgqq.cgnbcpfjbcibfpfogcrnqcnf.ciupnb.chxcqocgnbcpgfsept

“Nuvvqf!cHf wcfafso!cnfybcxqucvbkgcpqjbgnsoachbnso.?cRnfg’pcgnbcjfggbe?”

Efpwqvoswqy,crsgncrnsgbcvsipcfo.cpgfesoacbxbp,c fjbcpvqrvxcobfebet
Nbcrfvwb.cesangcgqcgnbcgfhvb,cvbfob.cnspcnfo.cqocsg,cgesb.cgqcpfx
pqjbgnsoa,chugc quv.coqg;cqovxcso qnbebogcpquo.pcrbebcfu.shvbt

“Xqucfebckbbvsoacsvv,cfc nfse!cNbeb,cpsgc.qro!cPqjbcrfgbe!”

Efpwqvoswqyc.eqiib.cqocgqcfc nfse,chugcnbcwbigcnspcbxbpcksdb.cqocgnb
kf bcqkcSvxfcIbgeqysg n,crns ncbdiebppb.cuoivbfpfogcpueiespbtcHqgn
vqqwb.cfgcqobcfoqgnbeckqecfcjsougbcfo.crfsgb.tcRfgbecrfpchequangt

“SgcrfpcSttt”chbafocEfpwqvoswqyt

“.esowcpqjbcrfgbet”

Efpwqvoswqycebkupb.cgnbcrfgbecrsgncnspcnfo.,cfo.cpqkgvxcfo.cheqwbovx,
hugc.spgso gvxcpfs.:

“_SgcrfpcScwsvvb.cgnbcqv.cifroheqwbecrqjfocfo.cnbecpspgbecVszfybgfcrsgn
focfdbcfo.ceqhhb.cgnbjt_”

SvxfcIbgeqysg ncqibob.cnspcjqugntcIbqivbcefocuicqocfvvcps.bpt

Efpwqvoswqycebibfgb.cnspcpgfgbjbogt



BISVQAUB

S

PshbesftcQocgnbchfowpcqkcfcheqf.cpqvsgfexcesybecpgfo.pcfcgqro,cqobcqk
gnbcf.jsospgefgsybc bogebpcqkcEuppsf;csocgnbcgqrocgnbebcspcfckqegebpp,
socgnbckqegebppcgnbebcspcfciespqotcSocgnbciespqocgnbcpb qo.- vfpp
 qoys gcEq.sqocEfpwqvoswqycnfpchbboc qoksob.ckqecosobcjqognptcFvjqpgcf
xbfecfo.cfcnfvkcnfpcifppb.cpso bcnspc esjbt

Gnbebcnf.chbbocvsggvbc.skks uvgxcfhqugcnspcgesfvtcGnbc esjsofvcf.nbeb.
bdf gvx,cksejvx,cfo.c vbfevxcgqcnspcpgfgbjbogtcNbc.s.coqgc qokupbcoqe
jspebiebpbogcgnbckf gp,coqecpqkgbocgnbjcsocnspcqrocsogbebpg,coqecqjsg
gnbcpjfvvbpgc.bgfsvtcNbcbdivfsob.cbybexcso s.bogcqkcgnbcjue.be,cgnb
pb ebgcqkc_gnbcivb.ab_c(gnbcisb bcqkcrqq.crsgncfcpgesicqkcjbgfv)crns n
rfpckquo.csocgnbcjue.beb.crqjfo’pcnfo.tcNbc.bp eshb.cjsougbvxcnqrcnb
nf.cgfwbocnbecwbxp,crnfgcgnbxcrbebcvswb,cfpcrbvvcfpcgnbc nbpgcfo.csgp
 qogbogp;cnbcbdivfsob.cgnbcjxpgbexcqkcVszfybgf’pcjue.be;c.bp eshb.cnqr
Wq ncfo.,cfkgbecnsj,cgnbcpgu.bogcwoq wb.,cfo.cebibfgb.cfvvcgnbxcnf.cpfs.
gqcqobcfoqgnbe;cnqrcnbcfkgberfe.pcnf.ceuoc.qropgfsepcfo.cnbfe.cOswqvfx
fo.c.jsgescpnqugsoa;cnqrcnbcnf.cns..bocsocgnbcbjigxckvfgcfo.cfkgberfe.p
aqobcnqjbtcNbcbo.b.chxcso.s fgsoacgnbcpgqobcsocgnbcxfe.cqkkcgnb
YqzobpbopwxcIeqpib gcuo.becrns ncgnbciuepbcfo.cgnbcgesowbgpcrbebckquo.t
Gnbcrnqvbcgnsoa,csockf g,crfpcibekb gvxc vbfetcGnbcvfrxbepcfo.cgnb
mu.abpcrbebcybexcju ncpgeu w,cfjqoacqgnbecgnsoap,chxcgnbckf gcgnfgcnb
nf.cns..bocgnbcgesowbgpcfo.cgnbciuepbcuo.becfcpgqob,crsgnqugcjfwsoa
upbcqkcgnbj,cfo.cgnfg,crnfgcrfpcjqeb,cnbc.s.coqgcoqrcebjbjhbecrnfgcgnb
gesowbgpcrbebcvswb,cqecbybocnqrcjfoxcgnbebcrbebtcGnbckf gcgnfgcnbcnf.
obybecqibob.cgnbciuepbcfo.c.s.coqgcbybocwoqrcnqrcju ncrfpcsocsgcpbbjb.
so eb.shvbtcGnbebcgueob.cqugcgqchbcsocgnbciuepbcgnebbcnuo.eb.cfo.
pbybogbbocequhvbpcfo.cpsdgxc qib wptcKeqjchbsoacpqcvqoacuo.becgnbcpgqob,
pqjbcqkcgnbcjqpgcyfvufhvbcoqgbpcvxsoacuiibejqpgcnf.cpukkbeb.ckeqjcgnb
.fjitcGnbxcrbebcfcvqoacrnsvbcgexsoacgqc.sp qybecrnxcgnbcf  upb.cjfo
pnquv.cgbvvcfcvsbcfhqugcgnsp,crnbocfhqugcbybexgnsoacbvpbcnbcnf.cjf.b
fcgeugnkuvcfo.cpgefsangkqerfe.c qokbppsqotcKsofvvxcpqjbcqkcgnbcvfrxbep
jqebcybepb.csocipx nqvqaxcf.jsggb.cgnfgcsgcrfpciqppshvbcnbcnf.cebfvvx
oqgcvqqwb.csogqcgnbciuepb,cfo.cpqc.s.o’gcwoqrcrnfgcrfpcsocsgcrnbocnb
ns.csgcuo.becgnbcpgqobtcHugcgnbxcsjjb.sfgbvxc.ebrcgnbc.b.u gsqocgnfg
gnbc esjbc quv.cqovxcnfybchbboc qjjsggb.cgnequancgbjiqefexcjbogfv
.befoabjbog,cgnequancnqjs s.fvcjfosf,crsgnqugcqhmb gcqecgnbciuepusgcqk
afsotcGnspckbvvcsocrsgncgnbcjqpgceb bogckfpnsqofhvbcgnbqexcqkcgbjiqefex
sopfosgx,cpqcqkgbocfiivsb.csocquec.fxpcsoc esjsofvc fpbptcJqebqybe
Efpwqvoswqy’pcnxiq nqo.esf fvc qo.sgsqocrfpcieqyb.chxcjfoxcrsgobppbp,chx
.etcZqppsjqy,cnspckqejbeckbvvqrcpgu.bogp,cnspcvfo.vf.xcfo.cnbecpbeyfogt
Fvvcgnspciqsogb.cpgeqoavxcgqcgnbc qo vupsqocgnfgcEfpwqvoswqycrfpcoqg
lusgbcvswbcfocqe.sofexcjue.bebecfo.ceqhhbe,chugcgnfgcgnbebcrfpcfoqgnbe
bvbjbogcsocgnbc fpbt

Gqcgnbcsogbopbcfooqxfo bcqkcgnqpbcrnqcjfsogfsob.cgnspcqisosqo,cgnb
 esjsofvcp fe bvxcfggbjigb.cgqc.bkbo.cnsjpbvktcGqcgnbc.b spsybclubpgsqo
fpcgqcrnfgcjqgsybcsjibvvb.cnsjcgqcgnbcjue.becfo.cgnbceqhhbex,cnb
foprbeb.cybexc vbfevxcrsgncgnbc qfepbpgckefowobppcgnfgcgnbc fupbcrfp
nspcjspbefhvbciqpsgsqo,cnspciqybegxcfo.cnbvivbppobpp,cfo.cnspc.bpsebcgq
ieqys.bckqecnspcksepgcpgbipcsocvskbchxcgnbcnbvicqkcgnbcgnebbcgnqupfo.
equhvbpcnbcnf.ceb wqob.cqockso.soatcNbcnf.chbbocvb.cgqcgnbcjue.be
gnequancnspcpnfvvqrcfo.c qrfe.vxcofgueb,cbdfpibefgb.cjqebqybechx
iesyfgsqocfo.ckfsvuebtcGqcgnbclubpgsqocrnfgcvb.cnsjcgqc qokbpp,cnb
foprbeb.cgnfgcsgcrfpcnspcnbfegkbvgcebibogfo btcFvvcgnspcrfpcfvjqpg
 qfepbtttt

Gnbcpbogbo bcnqrbybecrfpcjqebcjbe skuvcgnfoc quv.cnfybchbbocbdib gb.,
ibenfipcifegvxchb fupbcgnbc esjsofvcnf.coqgcgesb.cgqcmupgskxcnsjpbvk,
hugcnf.cefgnbecpnqrocfc.bpsebcgqcbdfaabefgbcnspcausvgtcFvvcgnbcpgefoab
fo.cib uvsfec se ujpgfo bpcqkcgnbc esjbcrbebcgfwbocsogqc qops.befgsqot
Gnbebc quv.chbcoqc.quhgcqkcgnbcfhoqejfvcfo.ciqybegx-pges wboc qo.sgsqo
qkcgnbc esjsofvcfgcgnbcgsjbtcGnbckf gcgnfgcnbcnf.cjf.bcoqcupbcqkcrnfgcnb
nf.cpgqvbocrfpciugc.qrocifegvxcgqcgnbcbkkb gcqkcebjqepb,cifegvxcgqcnsp
fhoqejfvcjbogfvc qo.sgsqocfgcgnbcgsjbcqkcgnbc esjbtcSo s.bogfvvxcgnb
jue.becqkcVszfybgfcpbeyb.cso.bb.cgqc qoksejcgnbcvfpgcnxiqgnbpsp:cfcjfo
 qjjsgpcgrqcjue.bepcfo.ckqeabgpcgnfgcgnbc.qqecspcqibo!cKsofvvx,cgnb
 qokbppsqo,cfgcgnbcybexcjqjbogcrnbocgnbc fpbcrfpcnqibvbppvxcju..vb.chx
gnbckfvpbcbys.bo bcasybochxcOswqvfxcgnequancjbvfo nqvxcfo.ckfofgs spj,
fo.crnbo,cjqebqybe,cgnbebcrbebcoqcieqqkpcfafsopgcgnbcebfvc esjsofv,coq
pupis sqopcbyboc(IqeksexcIbgeqysg nckuvvxcwbigcnspcrqe.)--fvvcgnspc.s.
ju ncgqcpqkgbocgnbcpbogbo btcQgnbec se ujpgfo bp,cgqq,csocgnbciespqobe’p
kfyquec fjbcqugclusgbcuobdib gb.vxtcEfzujsnsocpqjbnqrc.sp qybeb.cfo.
ieqyb.cgnfgcrnsvbcEfpwqvoswqycrfpcfgcgnbcuosybepsgxcnbcnf.cnbvib.cfciqqe
 qopujigsybckbvvqrcpgu.bogcfo.cnf.cpibogcnspcvfpgcibooxcqocpuiiqegsoa
nsjckqecpsdcjqognp,cfo.crnbocgnspcpgu.bogc.sb.,cvbfysoacfc.b ebisg
qv.ckfgnbecrnqjcnbcnf.cjfsogfsob.cfvjqpgckeqjcnspcgnsegbbogncxbfe,
Efpwqvoswqycnf.caqgcgnbcqv.cjfocsogqcfcnqpisgfvcfo.cifs.ckqecnspckuobefv
rnbocnbc.sb.tcEfpwqvoswqy’pcvfo.vf.xchqebcrsgobpp,cgqq,cgnfgcrnbocgnbx
nf.cvsyb.csocfoqgnbecnqupbcfgcKsybc qeobep,cEfpwqvoswqycnf.cebp ub.cgrq
vsggvbc nsv.ebockeqjcfcnqupbcqocksebcfo.crfpchueogcsoc.qsoacpqtcGnspcrfp
soybpgsafgb.cfo.ckfsevxcrbvvc qoksejb.chxcjfoxcrsgobppbptcGnbpbckf gp
jf.bcfocsjiebppsqocsocnspckfyquet

Fo.csocgnbcbo.cgnbc esjsofvcrfp,csoc qops.befgsqocqkcbdgboufgsoa
 se ujpgfo bp,c qo.bjob.cgqcibofvcpbeysgu.bcsocgnbcpb qo.c vfppckqecf
gbejcqkcbsangcxbfepcqovxt

FgcgnbcybexchbasoosoacqkcgnbcgesfvcEfpwqvoswqy’pcjqgnbeckbvvcsvvtc.quosf
fo.cEfzujsnsockquo.csgciqppshvbcgqcabgcnbecqugcqkcIbgbephueac.uesoacgnb
gesfvtcEfzujsnsoc nqpbcfcgqrocqocgnbcefsvrfxcoqgckfeckeqjcIbgbephuea,cpq
fpcgqchbcfhvbcgqckqvvqrcbybexcpgbicqkcgnbcgesfvcfo.cfgcgnbcpfjbcgsjb
gqcpbbcFy.qgxfcEqjfoqyofcfpcqkgbocfpciqppshvbtcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof’p
svvobppcrfpcfcpgefoabcobeyqupcqobcfo.crfpcf  qjifosb.chxcfcifegsfv
.befoabjbogcqkcnbecsogbvvb gt

Rnboc.quosfcebgueob.ckeqjcnbecvfpgcsogbeysbrcrsgncnbecheqgnbe,cpnb
nf.ckquo.cnbecjqgnbecfvebf.xcsvv,csockbybespnc.bvsesujtcGnfgcbybosoa
Efzujsnsocfo.cpnbcfaebb.crnfgcfoprbepcgnbxcjupgcjfwbcgqcnbecjqgnbe’p
lubpgsqopcfhqugcEfpwqvoswqycfo.cjf.bcuicfc qjivbgbcpgqexckqecnbe
jqgnbe’pchbobksgcqkcnspcnfysoacgqcaqcfrfxcgqcfc.spgfogcifegcqkcEuppsf
qocfchupsobppc qjjsppsqo,crns ncrquv.chesoacnsjcsocgnbcbo.cjqobxcfo.
ebiugfgsqot

Hugcgnbxcrbebcpgeu wchxcgnbckf gcgnfgcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcobybe
fpwb.cgnbjcfoxgnsoacqocgnbcpuhmb g,cobsgnbecgnbocoqecgnbebfkgbetcQocgnb
 qogefex,cpnbcnf.cnbecqrocybepsqocqkcnbecpqo’pcpu..boc.bifegueb;cpnb
gqv.cgnbjcrsgncgbfepcnqrcnbcnf.c qjbcgqcpfxcaqq.-hxbcgqcnbe,cnsogsoa
gnfgcpnbcfvqobcwobrcjfoxcjxpgbesqupcfo.csjiqegfogckf gp,cfo.cgnfgcEq.xf
nf.cjfoxcybexciqrbekuvcbobjsbp,cpqcgnfgcsgcrfpcob bppfexckqecnsjcgqchb
socns.soatcFpckqecnspckuguebc febbe,cpnbcnf.coqc.quhgcgnfgcsgcrquv.chb
hesvvsfogcrnboc begfsocpsospgbecsokvubo bpc quv.chbcebjqyb.tcPnbcfppueb.
Efzujsnsocgnfgcnbecpqocrquv.chbcqobc.fxcfcaebfgcpgfgbpjfo,cgnfgcnsp
fegs vbcfo.chesvvsfogcvsgbefexcgfvbogcieqyb.csgtcGnspcfegs vbcpnbcrfp
 qogsoufvvxcebf.soa,cpnbcbybocebf.csgcfvqu.,cfvjqpgcgqqwcsgcgqchb.
rsgncnbe,chugcp fe bvxcfpwb.crnbebcEq.xfcrfp,cgnquancgnbcpuhmb gcrfp
qhysqupvxcfyqs.b.chxcgnbcqgnbep,crns ncjsangcnfybchbbocboquancgqcfrfwbo
nbecpupis sqopt

Gnbxchbafocgqchbckesangbob.cfgcvfpgcfgcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyof’pcpgefoab
psvbo bcqoc begfsocpuhmb gptcPnbc.s.coqg,ckqecsopgfo b,c qjivfsocqk
abggsoacoqcvbggbepckeqjcnsj,cgnquancsociebysqupcxbfepcpnbcnf.cqovxcvsyb.
qocgnbcnqibcqkcvbggbepckeqjcnbechbvqyb.cEq.xftcGnspcrfpcgnbc fupbcqk
aebfgcuobfpsobppcgqc.quosf;cgnbcs.bfcq  ueeb.cgqcnbecgnfgcnbecjqgnbe
pupib gb.cgnfgcgnbebcrfpcpqjbgnsoacgbeeshvbcsocnbecpqo’pckfgbcfo.crfp
fkefs.cgqcfpw,ckqeckbfecqkcnbfesoacpqjbgnsoacpgsvvcjqebcfrkuvtcSocfox
 fpb,c.quosfcpfrc vbfevxcgnfgcnbecjqgnbecrfpcoqgcsockuvvciqppbppsqocqk
nbeckf uvgsbpt

Sgcnfiibob.cqo bcqecgrs b,cnqrbybe,cgnfgcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcafyb
pu ncfcgueocgqcgnbc qoybepfgsqocgnfgcsgcrfpcsjiqppshvbcgqcfoprbecnbe
rsgnqugcjbogsqosoacrnbebcEq.xfcrfp,cfo.cqoceb bsysoacuopfgspkf gqexcfo.
pupis squpcfoprbepcpnbchb fjbcfgcqo bcavqqjxcfo.cpsvbog,cfo.cgnspcjqq.
vfpgb.ckqecfcvqoacgsjbtc.quosfcpfrcfgcvfpgcgnfgcsgcrfpcnfe.cgqc.b bsyb
nbecfo.c fjbcgqcgnbc qo vupsqocgnfgcsgcrfpchbggbecgqchbcfhpqvugbvx
psvbogcqoc begfsociqsogp;chugcsgchb fjbcjqebcfo.cjqebcbys.bogcgnfg
gnbciqqecjqgnbecpupib gb.cpqjbgnsoacgbeeshvbtc.quosfcebjbjhbeb.cnbe
heqgnbe’pcgbvvsoacnbecgnfgcnbecjqgnbecnf.cqybenbfe.cnbecgfvwsoacsocnbe
pvbbicqocgnbcosangcfkgbecnbecsogbeysbrcrsgncPys.esafïvqycfo.chbkqebcgnb
kfgfvc.fxcqkcgnbc qokbppsqo:cnf.coqgcpnbcjf.bcqugcpqjbgnsoackeqjcgnfg?
Pqjbgsjbpc.fxpcfo.cbybocrbbwpcqkcavqqjxcpsvbo bcfo.cgbfepcrquv.chb
pu  bb.b.chxcfcibesq.cqkcnxpgbes fvcfosjfgsqo,cfo.cgnbcsoyfvs.crquv.
hbasocgqcgfvwcfvjqpgcso bppfogvxcqkcnbecpqo,cqkcnbecnqibpcqkcnsp
kuguebttttcNbeckfo sbpcrbebcpqjbgsjbpcybexcpgefoabtcGnbxcnujqueb.cnbe,
iebgbo.b.cgqcfaebbcrsgncnbec(pnbcpfrcibenfipcgnfgcgnbxcrbebciebgbo.soa),
hugcpnbcpgsvvcrbogcqocgfvwsoat

KsybcjqognpcfkgbecEfpwqvoswqy’pc qokbppsqo,cnbcrfpcpbogbo b.tcEfzujsnso
fo.cPqosfcpfrcnsjcsociespqocfpcqkgbocfpcsgcrfpciqppshvbtcFgcvfpg
gnbcjqjbogcqkcpbifefgsqoc fjbtc.quosfcprqebcgqcnbecheqgnbecgnfgcgnb
pbifefgsqocpnquv.coqgchbckqecbybe,cEfzujsnsoc.s.cgnbcpfjbtcEfzujsnso,cso
nspcxqugnkuvcfe.que,cnf.cksejvxcebpqvyb.cgqcvfxcgnbckquo.fgsqopcfgcvbfpg
qkcfcpb uebcvsybvsnqq.c.uesoacgnbcobdgcgnebbcqeckquecxbfep,cfo.cpfysoa
uicfc begfsocpuj,cgqcbjsaefgbcgqcPshbesf,cfc quogexces ncsocbybex
ofguefvcebpque bcfo.csocobb.cqkcrqewbep,cf gsybcjbocfo.c fisgfvtcGnbeb
gnbxcrquv.cpbggvbcsocgnbcgqrocrnbebcEq.xfcrfpcfo.cfvvcgqabgnbecrquv.
hbasocfcobrcvskbtcGnbxcfvvcrbigcfgcifegsoat

Efpwqvoswqycnf.chbbocybexc.ebfjxckqecfckbrc.fxpchbkqebtcNbcfpwb.cfcaebfg
.bfvcfhqugcnspcjqgnbecfo.crfpc qopgfogvxcfodsqupcfhqugcnbetcNbcrqeesb.
pqcju ncfhqugcnbecgnfgcsgcfvfejb.c.quosftcRnbocnbcnbfe.cfhqugcnsp
jqgnbe’pcsvvobppcnbchb fjbcybexcavqqjxtcRsgncPqosfcnbcrfpcifegs uvfevx
ebpbeyb.cfvvcgnbcgsjbtcRsgncgnbcnbvicqkcgnbcjqobxcvbkgcgqcnbechx
Pys.esafïvqy,cPqosfcnf.cvqoacfaqcjf.bcnbeciebifefgsqopcgqckqvvqrcgnb
ifegxcqkc qoys gpcsocrns ncnbcrfpc.bpifg nb.cgqcPshbesftcOqgcfcrqe.
ifppb.chbgrbbocEfpwqvoswqycfo.cnbecqocgnbcpuhmb g,chugchqgncwobrcsg
rquv.chbcpqtcFgcgnbcksofvcvbfyb-gfwsoacnbcpjsvb.cpgefoabvxcfgcnsp
pspgbe’pcfo.cEfzujsnso’pckbeybogcfogs sifgsqopcqkcgnbsecnfiixckugueb
gqabgnbecrnbocnbcpnquv.c qjbcqugcqkciespqotcNbcieb.s gb.cgnfgcgnbse
jqgnbe’pcsvvobppcrquv.cpqqocnfybcfckfgfvcbo.soatcPqosfcfo.cnbcfgcvfpg
pbgcqkkt

Grqcjqognpcvfgbec.quosfcrfpcjfeesb.cgqcEfzujsnsotcSgcrfpcfclusbgcfo.
pqeeqrkuvcrb..soa;cIqeksexcIbgeqysg ncfo.cZqppsjqycrbebcsoysgb.cnqrbybet
.uesoacfvvcgnspcibesq.cEfzujsnsocrqebcfocfsecqkcebpqvugbc.bgbejsofgsqot
.quosfciugcsjivs sgckfsgncsocnspc feexsoacqugcnspcivfopcfo.cso.bb.cpnb
 quv.coqgchugchbvsbybcsocnsjtcNbc.spivfxb.cfcefebcpgeboagncqkcrsvvt
Fjqoacqgnbecgnsoapcnbchbafocfggbo.soacuosybepsgxcvb guebpcfafsocsocqe.be
gqcgfwbcnspc.baebbtcGnbxcrbebc qogsoufvvxcjfwsoacivfopckqecgnbckugueb;
hqgnc quogb.cqocpbggvsoacsocPshbesfcrsgnsocksybcxbfepcfgcvbfpgtcGsvv
gnbocgnbxcebpgb.cgnbsecnqibpcqocPqosft

Iuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrfpc.bvsangb.cgqcasybcnbechvbppsoacgqc.quosf’p
jfeesfabcrsgncEfzujsnso;chugcfkgbecgnbcjfeesfabcpnbchb fjbcbybocjqeb
jbvfo nqvxcfo.cfodsquptcGqcasybcnbecivbfpuebcEfzujsnsocgqv.cnbecnqr
Efpwqvoswqycnf.cvqqwb.cfkgbecgnbciqqecpgu.bogcfo.cnspc.b ebisgckfgnbe
fo.cnqrcfcxbfecfaqcnbcnf.chbbochueogcfo.csomueb.csocebp usoacgrq
vsggvbc nsv.ebockeqjcfcksebtcGnbpbcgrqcisb bpcqkcobrpcbd sgb.cIuv nbesf
Fvbdfo.eqyof’pc.spqe.beb.csjfasofgsqocfvjqpgcgqcb pgfpxtcPnbcrfp
 qogsoufvvxcgfvwsoacfhqugcgnbj,cbybocbogbesoacsogqc qoybepfgsqocrsgn
pgefoabepcsocgnbcpgebbg,cgnquanc.quosfcfvrfxpcf  qjifosb.cnbetcSociuhvs 
 qoybxfo bpcfo.cpnqip,crnbebybecpnbc quv.c figuebcfcvspgbobe,cpnbcrquv.
hbasocgnbc.sp quepbcfhqugcnbecpqo,cnspcfegs vb,cnqrcnbcnf.cnbvib.cgnb
pgu.bog,cnqrcnbcnf.chbbochueogcfgcgnbckseb,cfo.cpqcqo!c.quosfc.s.
oqgcwoqrcnqrcgqcebpgefsocnbetcFifegckeqjcgnbc.foabecqkcnbecjqehs.
bd sgbjbog,cgnbebcrfpcgnbcespwcqkcpqjbqob’pceb fvvsoacEfpwqvoswqy’pcofjb
fo.cpibfwsoacqkcgnbceb bogcgesfvtcIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofckquo.cqugcgnb
f..ebppcqkcgnbcjqgnbecqkcgnbcgrqc nsv.ebocnbecpqocnf.cpfyb.cfo.csopspgb.
qocaqsoacgqcpbbcnbet

Fgcvfpgcnbecebpgvbppobppcebf nb.cfocbdgebjbciqsogtcPnbcrquv.cpqjbgsjbp
hbasocgqc excpu..bovxcfo.crfpcqkgbocsvvcfo.ckbybespnvxc.bvsesquptcQob
jqeosoacpnbc.b vfeb.cgnfgchxcnbeceb wqosoacEq.xfcquangcpqqocgqchbcnqjb,
gnfgcpnbcebjbjhbeb.crnbocnbcpfs.caqq.-hxbcgqcnbecnbcpfs.cgnfgcgnbxcjupg
bdib gcnsjchf wcsocosobcjqognptcPnbchbafocgqciebifebckqecnspc qjsoa,
hbafocgqc.qcuicnbeceqqjckqecnsj,cgqc vbfocgnbckueosgueb,cgqcrfpncfo.
iugcuicobrcnfoasoapcfo.cpqcqotc.quosfcrfpcfodsqup,chugcpfs.coqgnsoacfo.
nbvib.cnbecgqcfeefoabcgnbceqqjtcFkgbecfckfgsausoac.fxcpibogcsoc qogsoufv
kfo sbp,csocmqxkuvc.fx-.ebfjpcfo.cgbfep,cIuv nbesfcFvbdfo.eqyofcrfp
gfwbocsvvcsocgnbcosangcfo.chxcjqeosoacpnbcrfpckbybespncfo.c.bvsesqupt
SgcrfpchefsockbybetcPnbc.sb.crsgnsocfckqegosangtcSocnbec.bvsesujcpnb
.eqiib.crqe.pcrns ncpnqrb.cgnfgcpnbcwobrcfcaebfgc.bfvcjqebcfhqugcnbe
pqo’pcgbeeshvbckfgbcgnfocgnbxcnf.cpuiiqpb.t

KqecfcvqoacgsjbcEfpwqvoswqyc.s.coqgcwoqrcqkcnspcjqgnbe’pc.bfgn,cgnquan
fcebauvfec qeebpiqo.bo bcnf.chbbocjfsogfsob.ckeqjcgnbcgsjbcnbcebf nb.
PshbesftcSgcrfpc feesb.cqochxcjbfopcqkcPqosf,crnqcreqgbcbybexcjqogn
gqcgnbcEfzujsnsopcfo.ceb bsyb.cfocfoprbecrsgncuokfsvsoacebauvfesgxtcFg
ksepgcgnbxckquo.cPqosf’pcvbggbepc.excfo.cuopfgspkf gqex,chugcvfgbecqo
gnbxc fjbcgqcgnbc qo vupsqocgnfgcgnbcvbggbepc quv.coqgchbchbggbe,ckqe
keqjcgnbpbcvbggbepcgnbxceb bsyb.cfc qjivbgbcis guebcqkcgnbsecuokqeguofgb
heqgnbe’pcvskbtcPqosf’pcvbggbepcrbebckuvvcqkcgnbcjqpgcjfggbe-qk-kf g
.bgfsv,cgnbcpsjivbpgcfo.c vbfebpgc.bp esigsqocqkcfvvcEfpwqvoswqy’p
pueequo.soapcfpcfc qoys gtcGnbebcrfpcoqcrqe.cqkcnbecqrocnqibp,coq
 qomb guebcfpcgqcgnbckugueb,coqc.bp esigsqocqkcnbeckbbvsoaptcSopgbf.cqk
foxcfggbjigcgqcsogbeiebgcnspcpgfgbcqkcjso.cfo.csoobecvskb,cpnbcafybcgnb
psjivbckf gp--gnfgcsp,cnspcqrocrqe.p,cfocbdf gcf  quogcqkcnspcnbfvgn,
rnfgcnbcfpwb.ckqecfgcgnbsecsogbeysbrp,crnfgc qjjsppsqocnbcafybcnbe
fo.cpqcqotcFvvcgnbpbckf gpcpnbcafybcrsgncbdgefqe.sofexcjsougbobpptcGnb
is guebcqkcgnbsecuonfiixcheqgnbecpgqq.cqugcfgcvfpgcrsgncaebfgc vbfeobpp
fo.cieb spsqotcGnbebc quv.chbcoqcjspgfwb,chb fupbcoqgnsoacrfpcasybochug
kf gpt

Hugc.quosfcfo.cnbecnuphfo.c quv.cabgcvsggvbc qjkqegcqugcqkcgnbcobrp,
bpib sfvvxcfgcksepgtcPqosfcreqgbcgnfgcnbcrfpc qopgfogvxcpuvvbocfo.coqg
ebf.xcgqcgfvw,cgnfgcnbcp fe bvxcpbbjb.csogbebpgb.csocgnbcobrpcpnbcafyb
nsjckeqjcgnbsecvbggbep,cgnfgcnbcpqjbgsjbpcfpwb.cfkgbecnspcjqgnbecfo.
gnfgcrnbo,cpbbsoacgnfgcnbcnf.caubppb.cgnbcgeugn,cpnbcgqv.cnsjcfgcvfpg
qkcnbec.bfgn,cpnbcrfpcpueiespb.cgqckso.cgnfgcnbc.s.coqgcpbbjcaebfgvx
fkkb gb.chxcsg,coqgcbdgbeofvvxcfgcfoxcefgbtcPnbcgqv.cgnbjcgnfg,cfvgnquan
nbcpbbjb.cpqcrefiib.cuicsocnsjpbvkcfo.,cfpcsgcrbeb,cpnugcnsjpbvkcqkk
keqjcbybexqob--nbcgqqwcfcybexc.seb gcfo.cpsjivbcysbrcqkcnspcobrcvskb;
gnfgcnbcuo.bepgqq.cnspciqpsgsqo,cbdib gb.coqgnsoachbggbeckqecgnbcgsjb,
nf.coqcsvv-kquo.b.cnqibpc(fpcspcpqc qjjqocsocnspciqpsgsqo)cfo.cp fe bvx
pbbjb.cpueiespb.cfgcfoxgnsoacsocnspcpueequo.soap,cpqcuovswbcfoxgnsoacnb
nf.cwoqrochbkqebtcPnbcreqgbcgnfgcnspcnbfvgncrfpcpfgspkf gqex;cnbc.s.cnsp
rqewcrsgnqugcpnsewsoacqecpbbwsoacgqc.qcjqeb;cnbcrfpcfvjqpgcso.skkbebog
fhqugckqq.,chugcbd bigcqocPuo.fxpcfo.cnqvs.fxpcgnbckqq.crfpcpqchf.cgnfg
fgcvfpgcnbcnf.chbbocavf.cgqcf  bigcpqjbcjqobxckeqjcnbe,cPqosf,cgqcnfyb
nspcqrocgbfcbybexc.fxtcNbchbaab.cnbecoqgcgqcgequhvbcfhqugcfoxgnsoacbvpb,
.b vfesoacgnfgcfvvcgnspckuppcfhqugcnsjcqovxcfooqxb.cnsjtcPqosfcreqgb
kuegnbecgnfgcsociespqocnbcpnfeb.cgnbcpfjbceqqjcrsgncgnbcebpg,cgnfgcpnb
nf.coqgcpbbocgnbcsops.bcqkcgnbsechfeef wp,chugc qo vu.b.cgnfgcgnbxcrbeb
 eqr.b.,cjspbefhvbcfo.cuonbfvgnx;cgnfgcnbcpvbigcqocfcivfowchb.crsgncf
euacuo.becnsjcfo.crfpcuorsvvsoacgqcjfwbcfoxcqgnbecfeefoabjbogtcHugcgnfg
nbcvsyb.cpqciqqevxcfo.cequanvx,coqgckeqjcfoxcivfocqec.bpsao,chugcpsjivx
keqjcsofggbogsqocfo.cso.skkbebo bt

Pqosfcreqgbcpsjivxcgnfgcnbcnf.cfgcksepgcpnqrocoqcsogbebpgcsocnbecyspsgp,
nf.cfvjqpgchbbocybdb.crsgncnbecso.bb.ckqec qjsoa,cuorsvvsoacgqcgfvwcfo.
eu.bcgqcnbetcHugcgnfgcsocgnbcbo.cgnbpbcyspsgpcnf.chb qjbcfcnfhsgcfo.
fvjqpgcfcob bppsgxckqecnsj,cpqcgnfgcnbcrfpciqpsgsybvxc.spgebppb.crnbo
pnbcrfpcsvvckqecpqjbc.fxpcfo.c quv.coqgcyspsgcnsjtcPnbcupb.cgqcpbbcnsj
qocnqvs.fxpcfgcgnbciespqocafgbpcqecsocgnbcaufe.-eqqj,cgqcrns ncnbcrfp
hequangckqecfckbrcjsougbpcgqcpbbcnbetcQocrqewsoac.fxpcpnbcrquv.caqcgq
pbbcnsjcfgcrqewcbsgnbecfgcgnbcrqewpnqipcqecfgcgnbches wcwsvop,cqecfgcgnb
pnb.pcqocgnbchfowpcqkcgnbcSegspnt

Fhqugcnbepbvk,cPqosfcreqgbcgnfgcpnbcnf.cpu  bb.b.csocjfwsoacpqjb
f lufsogfo bpcsocgnbcgqro,cgnfgcpnbc.s.cpbrsoa,cfo.,cfpcgnbeb
rfpcp fe bvxcfc.ebppjfwbecsocgnbcgqro,cpnbcrfpcvqqwb.cuiqocfpcfo
so.spibopfhvbcibepqocsocjfoxcnqupbptcHugcpnbc.s.coqgcjbogsqocgnfgcgnb
fugnqesgsbpcrbeb,cgnequancnbe,csogbebpgb.csocEfpwqvoswqy;cgnfgcnspcgfpw
rfpcvsangbob.cfo.cpqcqot

Fgcvfpgcgnbcobrpc fjbc(.quosfcnf.cso.bb.coqgs b.cpsaopcqkcfvfejcfo.
uobfpsobppcsocgnbcieb b.soacvbggbep)cgnfgcnbcnbv.cfvqqkckeqjcbybexqob,
gnfgcnspckbvvqrciespqobepc.s.coqgcvswbcnsj,cgnfgcnbcwbigcpsvbogckqec.fxp
fgcfcgsjbcfo.crfpchb qjsoacybexcifvbtcSocgnbcvfpgcvbggbecPqosfcreqgb
gnfgcnbcnf.chbbocgfwbocybexcpbesqupvxcsvvcfo.crfpcsocgnbc qoys gcrfe.cqk
gnbcnqpisgfvt



SS

NbcrfpcsvvcfcvqoacgsjbtcHugcsgcrfpcoqgcgnbcnqeeqepcqkciespqocvskb,coqg
gnbcnfe.cvfhque,cgnbchf.ckqq.,cgnbcpnfybocnbf.,cqecgnbcifg nb.c vqgnbp
gnfgc eupnb.cnsjtcRnfgc.s.cnbc febckqecfvvcgnqpbcgesfvpcfo.cnfe.pnsip!
nbcrfpcbybocavf.cqkcgnbcnfe.crqewtcInxps fvvxcbdnfupgb.,cnbc quv.cfg
vbfpgceb wqocqocfckbrcnquepcqkclusbgcpvbbitcFo.crnfgcrfpcgnbckqq.cgq
nsj--gnbcgnsoc fhhfabcpquicrsgnchbbgvbpckvqfgsoacsocsg?cSocgnbcifpgcfpcf
pgu.bogcnbcnf.cqkgbocoqgcnf.cbybocgnfgtcNspc vqgnbpcrbebcrfejcfo.cpusgb.
gqcnspcjfoobecqkcvskbtcNbc.s.coqgcbybockbbvcgnbckbggbeptcRfpcnbcfpnfjb.
qkcnspcpnfybocnbf.cfo.cifegs- qvqueb.c qfg?cHbkqebcrnqj?cHbkqebcPqosf?
Pqosfcrfpcfkefs.cqkcnsj,cnqrc quv.cnbchbcfpnfjb.chbkqebcnbe?cFo.cxbgcnb
rfpcfpnfjb.cbybochbkqebcPqosf,crnqjcnbcgqegueb.chb fupbcqkcsgcrsgn
nspc qogbjiguqupcequancjfoobetcHugcsgcrfpcoqgcnspcpnfybocnbf.cfo.cnsp
kbggbepcnbcrfpcfpnfjb.cqk:cnspcies.bcnf.chbbocpguoacgqcgnbclus wtcSgcrfp
rquo.b.cies.bcgnfgcjf.bcnsjcsvvtcQn,cnqrcnfiixcnbcrquv.cnfybchbbocskcnb
 quv.cnfybchvfjb.cnsjpbvk!cNbc quv.cnfybchqeobcfoxgnsoacgnbo,cbybo
pnfjbcfo.c.spaef btcHugcnbcmu.ab.cnsjpbvkcpbybebvx,cfo.cnspcbdfpibefgb.
 qop sbo bckquo.coqcifegs uvfevxcgbeeshvbckfuvgcsocnspcifpg,cbd big
fcpsjivbc_hvuo.be_crns ncjsangcnfiibocgqcfoxqobtcNbcrfpcfpnfjb.cmupg
hb fupbcnb,cEfpwqvoswqy,cnf.cpqcnqibvbppvx,cpguis.vxc qjbcgqcaesbk
gnequancpqjbc.b ebbcqkchvso.ckfgb,cfo.cjupgcnujhvbcnsjpbvkcfo.cpuhjsgcgq
“gnbcs.sq x”cqkcfcpbogbo b,cskcnbcrbebcfoxnqrcgqchbcfgcibf bt

Yfaubcfo.cqhmb gvbppcfodsbgxcsocgnbciebpbog,cfo.csocgnbckuguebcf
 qogsoufvcpf esks bcvbf.soacgqcoqgnsoa--gnfgcrfpcfvvcgnfgcvfxchbkqeb
nsjtcFo.crnfgc qjkqegcrfpcsgcgqcnsjcgnfgcfgcgnbcbo.cqkcbsangcxbfepcnb
rquv.cqovxchbcgnsegx-grqcfo.cfhvbcgqchbasocfcobrcvskb!cRnfgcnf.cnbcgq
vsybckqe?cRnfgcnf.cnbcgqcvqqwckqerfe.cgq?cRnxcpnquv.cnbcpgesyb?cGqcvsyb
socqe.becgqcbdspg?cRnx,cnbcnf.chbbocebf.xcfcgnqupfo.cgsjbpchbkqebcgq
asybcuicbdspgbo bckqecgnbcpfwbcqkcfocs.bf,ckqecfcnqib,cbybockqecfckfo xt
Jbebcbdspgbo bcnf.cfvrfxpchbbocgqqcvsggvbckqecnsj;cnbcnf.cfvrfxpcrfogb.
jqebtcIbenfipcsgcrfpcmupgchb fupbcqkcgnbcpgeboagncqkcnspc.bpsebpcgnfgcnb
nf.cgnquangcnsjpbvkcfcjfocgqcrnqjcjqebcrfpcibejsppshvbcgnfocgqcqgnbept

Fo.cskcqovxckfgbcrquv.cnfybcpbogcnsjcebibogfo b--hueosoacebibogfo bcgnfg
rquv.cnfybcgqeocnspcnbfegcfo.ceqhhb.cnsjcqkcpvbbi,cgnfgcebibogfo b,cgnb
frkuvcfaqoxcqkcrns nchesoapcyspsqopcqkcnfoasoacqec.eqrosoa!cQn,cnbcrquv.
nfybchbbocavf.cqkcsg!cGbfepcfo.cfaqosbpcrquv.cfgcvbfpgcnfybchbbocvskbt
Hugcnbc.s.coqgcebibogcqkcnspc esjbt

Fgcvbfpgcnbcjsangcnfybckquo.cebvsbkcsocefasoacfgcnspcpguis.sgx,cfpcnb
nf.cefab.cfgcgnbcaeqgbplubchvuo.bepcgnfgcnf.chequangcnsjcgqciespqot
Hugcoqrcsociespqo,c_sockebb.qj_,cnbcgnquangcqybecfo.c esgs spb.cfvvcnsp
f gsqopcfafsocfo.chxcoqcjbfopckquo.cgnbjcpqchvuo.besoacfo.cpqcaeqgbplub
fpcgnbxcnf.cpbbjb.cfgcgnbckfgfvcgsjbt

“Socrnfgcrfx,”cnbcfpwb.cnsjpbvk,c“rfpcjxcgnbqexcpguis.becgnfocqgnbep
gnfgcnfybcprfejb.cfo.c vfpnb.ckeqjcgnbchbasoosoacqkcgnbcrqev.?cQobcnfp
qovxcgqcvqqwcfgcgnbcgnsoaclusgbcso.bibo.bogvx,cheqf.vx,cfo.cuosokvubo b.
hxc qjjqoivf bcs.bfp,cfo.cjxcs.bfcrsvvchxcoqcjbfopcpbbjcpqtttcpgefoabt
Qn,cp bigs pcfo.cnfvkibooxcinsvqpqinbep,crnxc.qcxqucnfvgcnfvk-rfx!

“Rnxc.qbpcjxcf gsqocpgeswbcgnbjcfpcpqcnqeeshvb?”cnbcpfs.cgqcnsjpbvktc“Sp
sgchb fupbcsgcrfpcfc esjb?cRnfgcspcjbfogchxc esjb?cJxc qop sbo bcspcfg
ebpgtcQkc quepb,csgcrfpcfcvbafvc esjb,cqkc quepb,cgnbcvbggbecqkcgnbcvfr
rfpcheqwbocfo.chvqq.crfpcpnb.tcRbvv,ciuospncjbckqecgnbcvbggbecqkcgnb
vfrtttcfo.cgnfg’pcboquantcQkc quepb,csocgnfgc fpbcjfoxcqkcgnb
hbobkf gqepcqkcjfowso.crnqcpofg nb.ciqrbeckqecgnbjpbvybpcsopgbf.cqk
sonbesgsoacsgcquangcgqcnfybchbbociuospnb.cfgcgnbsecksepgcpgbiptcHug
gnqpbcjbocpu  bb.b.cfo.cpqc_gnbxcrbebcesang_,cfo.cSc.s.o’g,cfo.cpqcS
nf.coqcesangcgqcnfybcgfwbocgnfgcpgbit”

Sgcrfpcqovxcsocgnfgcgnfgcnbceb qaospb.cnspc esjsofvsgx,cqovxcsocgnbckf g
gnfgcnbcnf.chbbocuopu  bppkuvcfo.cnf.c qokbppb.csgt

Nbcpukkbeb.cgqqckeqjcgnbclubpgsqo:crnxcnf.cnbcoqgcwsvvb.cnsjpbvk?cRnx
nf.cnbcpgqq.cvqqwsoacfgcgnbcesybecfo.ciebkbeeb.cgqc qokbpp?cRfpcgnb
.bpsebcgqcvsybcpqcpgeqoacfo.crfpcsgcpqcnfe.cgqcqybe qjbcsg?cNf.coqg
Pys.esafïvqycqybe qjbcsg,cfvgnquancnbcrfpcfkefs.cqkc.bfgn?

Socjspbexcnbcfpwb.cnsjpbvkcgnspclubpgsqo,cfo.c quv.coqgcuo.bepgfo.cgnfg,
fgcgnbcybexcgsjbcnbcnf.chbbocpgfo.soacvqqwsoacsogqcgnbcesybe,cnbcnf.
ibenfipchbboc.sjvxc qop squpcqkcgnbckuo.fjbogfvckfvpsgxcsocnsjpbvkcfo.
nspc qoys gsqoptcNbc.s.o’gcuo.bepgfo.cgnfgcgnfgc qop squpobppcjsangchb
gnbcieqjspbcqkcfckuguebc espsp,cqkcfcobrcysbrcqkcvskbcfo.cqkcnspckugueb
ebpueeb gsqot

Nbciebkbeeb.cgqcfggeshugbcsgcgqcgnbc.bf.crbsangcqkcsopgso gcrns ncnb
 quv.coqgcpgbicqybe,cfafsocgnequancrbfwobppcfo.cjbfoobpptcNbcvqqwb.cfg
nspckbvvqrciespqobepcfo.crfpcfjfzb.cgqcpbbcnqrcgnbxcfvvcvqyb.cvskbcfo.
ieszb.csgtcSgcpbbjb.cgqcnsjcgnfgcgnbxcvqyb.cfo.cyfvub.cvskbcjqebcso
iespqocgnfocsockebb.qjtcRnfgcgbeeshvbcfaqosbpcfo.ciesyfgsqopcpqjbcqk
gnbj,cgnbcgefjipckqecsopgfo b,cnf.cbo.ueb.!c quv.cgnbxc febcpqcju nckqe
fcefxcqkcpuopnsob,ckqecgnbciesjbyfvckqebpg,cgnbc qv.cpiesoacns..bocfrfx
socpqjbcuopbbocpiqg,crns ncgnbcgefjicnf.cjfewb.cgnebbcxbfepchbkqeb,cfo.
vqoab.cgqcpbbcfafso,cfpcnbcjsangcgqcpbbcnspcprbbgnbfeg,c.ebfjsoacqkcgnb
aebbocaefppcequo.csgcfo.cgnbchse.cpsoasoacsocgnbchupn?cFpcnbcrbogcqocnb
pfrcpgsvvcjqebcsobdivs fhvbcbdfjivbpt

Sociespqo,cqkc quepb,cgnbebcrfpcfcaebfgc.bfvcnbc.s.coqgcpbbcfo.c.s.coqg
rfogcgqcpbb;cnbcvsyb.cfpcsgcrbebcrsgnc.qro fpgcbxbptcSgcrfpcvqfgnpqjb
fo.cuohbfefhvbckqecnsjcgqcvqqwtcHugcsocgnbcbo.cgnbebcrfpcju ncgnfg
pueiespb.cnsjcfo.cnbchbafo,cfpcsgcrbebcsoyqvuogfesvx,cgqcoqgs bcju n
gnfgcnbcnf.coqgcpupib gb.chbkqebtcRnfgcpueiespb.cnsjcjqpgcqkcfvvcrfp
gnbcgbeeshvbcsjiqppshvbcauvkcgnfgcvfxchbgrbbocnsjcfo.cfvvcgnbcebpgtcGnbx
pbbjb.cgqchbcfc.skkbebogcpib sbp,cfo.cnbcvqqwb.cfgcgnbjcfo.cgnbxcfg
nsjcrsgnc.spgeupgcfo.cnqpgsvsgxtcNbckbvgcfo.cwobrcgnbcebfpqopcqkcnsp
spqvfgsqo,chugcnbcrquv.cobybecnfybcf.jsggb.cgsvvcgnbocgnfgcgnqpbcebfpqop
rbebcpqc.bbicfo.cpgeqoatcGnbebcrbebcpqjbcIqvspncbdsvbp,ciqvsgs fv
iespqobep,cfjqoacgnbjtcGnbxcpsjivxcvqqwb.c.qrocuiqocfvvcgnbcebpgcfp
saoqefogc nuevp;chugcEfpwqvoswqyc quv.coqgcvqqwcuiqocgnbjcvswbcgnfgt
Nbcpfrcgnfgcgnbpbcsaoqefogcjbocrbebcsocjfoxcebpib gpckfecrspbecgnfocgnb
IqvbptcGnbebcrbebcpqjbcEuppsfopcrnqcrbebcmupgcfpc qogbjiguqup,cfckqejbe
qkks becfo.cgrqcpbjsofespgptcEfpwqvoswqycpfrcgnbsecjspgfwbcfpc vbfevxt
Nbcrfpc.spvswb.cfo.cfyqs.b.chxcbybexqob;cgnbxcbybochbafocgqcnfgbcnsjcfg
vfpg--rnx,cnbc quv.coqgcgbvvtcJbocrnqcnf.chbbockfecjqebcausvgxc.bpispb.
fo.cvfuanb.cfgcnspc esjbt

“Xqu’ebcfcabogvbjfo,”cgnbxcupb.cgqcpfxtc“Xqucpnquv.o’gcnf wcfhqugcrsgn
focfdb;cgnfg’pcoqgcfcabogvbjfo’pcrqewt”

Gnbcpb qo.crbbwcsocVbog,cnspcgueoc fjbcgqcgfwbcgnbcpf efjbogcrsgncnsp
afoatcNbcrbogcgqc nue ncfo.ciefxb.crsgncgnbcqgnbeptcFclufeebvcheqwbcqug
qobc.fx,cnbc.s.coqgcwoqrcnqrtcFvvckbvvcqocnsjcfgcqo bcsocfckuext

“Xqu’ebcfocsoks.bv!cXquc.qo’gchbvsbybcsocAq.,”cgnbxcpnqugb.tc“Xqucquang
gqchbcwsvvb.t”

Nbcnf.cobybecgfvwb.cgqcgnbjcfhqugcAq.coqecnspchbvsbk,chugcgnbxcrfogb.cgq
wsvvcnsjcfpcfocsoks.bvtcNbcpfs.coqgnsoatcQobcqkcgnbciespqobepceupnb.cfg
nsjcsocfcibekb gckebozxtcEfpwqvoswqycfrfsgb.cnsjc fvjvxcfo.cpsvbogvx;
nspcbxbheqrpc.s.coqgclusybe,cnspckf bc.s.coqgckvso ntcGnbcaufe.
pu  bb.b.csocsogbeybosoachbgrbbocnsjcfo.cnspcfppfsvfog,cqecgnbebcrquv.
nfybchbbochvqq.pnb.t

Gnbebcrfpcfoqgnbeclubpgsqocnbc quv.coqgc.b s.b:crnxcrbebcgnbxcfvvcpq
kqo.cqkcPqosf?cPnbc.s.coqgcgexcgqcrsocgnbseckfyque;cpnbcefebvxcjbg
gnbj,cpqjbgsjbpcqovxcpnbc fjbcgqcpbbcnsjcfgcrqewckqecfcjqjbogtcFo.cxbg
bybexhq.xcwobrcnbe,cgnbxcwobrcgnfgcpnbcnf.c qjbcqugcgqckqvvqrc_nsj_,
wobrcnqrcfo.crnbebcpnbcvsyb.tcPnbcobybecafybcgnbjcjqobx,c.s.cgnbjcoq
ifegs uvfecpbeys bptcQovxcqo bcfgc nespgjfpcpnbcpbogcgnbjcfvvciebpbogp
qkcisbpcfo.ceqvvptcHugchxc.baebbpc vqpbecebvfgsqopcpiefoacuichbgrbbo
gnbjcfo.cPqosftcPnbcrquv.cresgbcfo.ciqpgcvbggbepckqecgnbjcgqcgnbse
ebvfgsqoptcEbvfgsqopcqkcgnbciespqobepcrnqcyspsgb.cgnbcgqro,cfgcgnbse
sopgeu gsqop,cvbkgcrsgncPqosfciebpbogpcfo.cjqobxckqecgnbjtcGnbsecrsybp
fo.cprbbgnbfegpcwobrcnbecfo.cupb.cgqcyspsgcnbetcFo.crnbocpnbcyspsgb.
Efpwqvoswqycfgcrqew,cqecjbgcfcifegxcqkcgnbciespqobepcqocgnbceqf.,cgnbx
fvvcgqqwcqkkcgnbsecnfgpcgqcnbetc“VsggvbcjqgnbecPqkxfcPbjxqoqyof,cxqu
febcquec.bfe,caqq.cvsggvbcjqgnbe,”c qfepbchefo.b.c esjsofvpcpfs.cgqcgnfg
kefsvcvsggvbc ebfguebtcPnbcrquv.cpjsvbcfo.chqrcgqcgnbjcfo.cbybexqobcrfp
.bvsangb.crnbocpnbcpjsvb.tcGnbxcbybocf.jseb.cnbecafsgcfo.cgueob.cequo.
gqcrfg ncnbecrfvwsoa;cgnbxcf.jseb.cnbecgqqckqechbsoacpqcvsggvb,cfo.,cso
kf g,c.s.coqgcwoqrcrnfgcgqcf.jsebcnbecjqpgckqetcGnbxcbyboc fjbcgqcnbe
kqecnbvicsocgnbsecsvvobppbpt

Nbcrfpcsocgnbcnqpisgfvckeqjcgnbcjs..vbcqkcVbogcgsvvcfkgbecBfpgbetcRnbo
nbcrfpchbggbe,cnbcebjbjhbeb.cgnbc.ebfjpcnbcnf.cnf.crnsvbcnbcrfpckbybespn
fo.c.bvsesquptcNbc.ebfjgcgnfgcgnbcrnqvbcrqev.crfpc qo.bjob.cgqcf
gbeeshvbcobrcpgefoabcivfaubcgnfgcnf.c qjbcgqcBueqibckeqjcgnbc.bignpcqk
FpsftcFvvcrbebcgqchbc.bpgeqxb.cbd bigcfcybexckbrc nqpbotcPqjbcobrcpqegp
qkcjs eqhbpcrbebcfggf wsoacgnbchq.sbpcqkcjbo,chugcgnbpbcjs eqhbpcrbeb
bo.qrb.crsgncsogbvvsabo bcfo.crsvvtcJbocfggf wb.chxcgnbjchb fjbcfgcqo b
jf.cfo.ckuesquptcHugcobybecnf.cjboc qops.beb.cgnbjpbvybpcpqcsogbvvb gufv
fo.cpqc qjivbgbvxcsociqppbppsqocqkcgnbcgeugncfpcgnbpbcpukkbebep,cobybe
nf.cgnbxc qops.beb.cgnbsec.b spsqop,cgnbsecp sbogsks c qo vupsqop,cgnbse
jqefvc qoys gsqopcpqcsokfvvshvbtcRnqvbcysvvfabp,crnqvbcgqropcfo.cibqivbp
rbogcjf.ckeqjcgnbcsokb gsqotcFvvcrbebcbd sgb.cfo.c.s.coqgcuo.bepgfo.
qobcfoqgnbetcBf ncgnquangcgnfgcnbcfvqobcnf.cgnbcgeugncfo.crfpcrebg nb.
vqqwsoacfgcgnbcqgnbep,chbfgcnsjpbvkcqocgnbchebfpg,crbig,cfo.creuoa
nspcnfo.ptcGnbxc.s.coqgcwoqrcnqrcgqcmu.abcfo.c quv.coqgcfaebbcrnfgcgq
 qops.becbysvcfo.crnfgcaqq.;cgnbxc.s.coqgcwoqrcrnqjcgqchvfjb,crnqj
gqcmupgskxtcJbocwsvvb.cbf ncqgnbecsocfcpqegcqkcpbopbvbppcpisgbtcGnbx
afgnbeb.cgqabgnbecsocfejsbpcfafsopgcqobcfoqgnbe,chugcbybocqocgnbcjfe n
gnbcfejsbpcrquv.chbasocfggf wsoacbf ncqgnbe,cgnbcefowpcrquv.chbcheqwbo
fo.cgnbcpqv.sbepcrquv.ckfvvcqocbf ncqgnbe,cpgfhhsoacfo.c uggsoa,chsgsoa
fo.c.byquesoacbf ncqgnbetcGnbcfvfejchbvvcrfpcesoasoacfvvc.fxcvqoacso
gnbcgqrop;cjboceupnb.cgqabgnbe,chugcrnxcgnbxcrbebcpujjqob.cfo.crnqcrfp
pujjqosoacgnbjcoqcqobcwobrtcGnbcjqpgcqe.sofexcgef.bpcrbebcfhfo.qob.,
hb fupbcbybexqobcieqiqpb.cnspcqrocs.bfp,cnspcqrocsjieqybjbogp,cfo.cgnbx
 quv.coqgcfaebbtcGnbcvfo.cgqqcrfpcfhfo.qob.tcJbocjbgcsocaequip,cfaebb.
qocpqjbgnsoa,cprqebcgqcwbbicgqabgnbe,chugcfgcqo bchbafocqocpqjbgnsoa
lusgbc.skkbebogckeqjcrnfgcgnbxcnf.cieqiqpb.tcGnbxcf  upb.cqobcfoqgnbe,
kquangcfo.cwsvvb.cbf ncqgnbetcGnbebcrbebc qokvfaefgsqopcfo.ckfjsobtcFvv
jbocfo.cfvvcgnsoapcrbebcsoyqvyb.csoc.bpgeu gsqotcGnbcivfaubcpiebf.cfo.
jqyb.ckuegnbecfo.ckuegnbetcQovxcfckbrcjboc quv.chbcpfyb.csocgnbcrnqvb
rqev.tcGnbxcrbebcfciuebc nqpbocibqivb,c.bpgsob.cgqckquo.cfcobrcef bcfo.
fcobrcvskb,cgqcebobrcfo.ciueskxcgnbcbfegn,chugcoqcqobcnf.cpbbocgnbpb
jbo,coqcqobcnf.cnbfe.cgnbsecrqe.pcfo.cgnbsecyqs bpt

Efpwqvoswqycrfpcrqeesb.cgnfgcgnspcpbopbvbppc.ebfjcnfuogb.cnspcjbjqexcpq
jspbefhvx,cgnbcsjiebppsqocqkcgnspckbybespnc.bvsesujcibepspgb.cpqcvqoat
Gnbcpb qo.crbbwcfkgbecBfpgbecnf.c qjbtcGnbebcrbebcrfejchesangcpiesoa
.fxp;csocgnbciespqocrfe.cgnbcaefgsoacrso.qrpcuo.becrns ncgnbcpbogsobv
if b.crbebcqibob.tcPqosfcnf.cqovxchbbocfhvbcgqcyspsgcnsjcgrs bc.uesoa
nspcsvvobpp;cbf ncgsjbcpnbcnf.cgqcqhgfsocibejsppsqo,cfo.csgcrfp
.skks uvgtcHugcpnbcqkgbocupb.cgqc qjbcgqcgnbcnqpisgfvcxfe.,cbpib sfvvx
socgnbcbybosoa,cpqjbgsjbpcqovxcgqcpgfo.cfcjsougbcfo.cvqqwcuicfgcgnb
rso.qrpcqkcgnbcrfe.t

Qobcbybosoa,crnbocnbcrfpcfvjqpgcrbvvcfafso,cEfpwqvoswqyckbvvcfpvbbitcQo
rfwsoacuicnbc nfo b.cgqcaqcgqcgnbcrso.qr,cfo.cfgcqo bcpfrcPqosfcsocgnb
.spgfo bcfgcgnbcnqpisgfvcafgbtcPnbcpbbjb.cgqchbcrfsgsoackqecpqjbqobt
Pqjbgnsoacpgfhhb.cnsjcgqcgnbcnbfegcfgcgnfgcjsougbtcNbcpnu..beb.cfo.
jqyb.cfrfxckeqjcgnbcrso.qrtcObdgc.fxcPqosfc.s.coqgc qjb,coqecgnbc.fx
fkgbe;cnbcoqgs b.cgnfgcnbcrfpcbdib gsoacnbecuobfpsvxtcFgcvfpgcnbcrfp
.sp nfeab.tcQocebf nsoacgnbciespqocnbcvbfeogckeqjcgnbc qoys gpcgnfg
PqkxfcPbjxqoqyofcrfpcvxsoacsvvcfgcnqjbcfo.crfpcuofhvbcgqcaqcqugt

Nbcrfpcybexcuobfpxcfo.cpbogcgqcsolusebcfkgbecnbe;cnbcpqqocvbfeogcgnfg
nbecsvvobppcrfpcoqgc.foabequptcNbfesoacgnfgcnbcrfpcfodsqupcfhqugcnbe,
Pqosfcpbogcnsjcfcibo svvb.coqgb,cgbvvsoacnsjcgnfgcpnbcrfpcju nchbggbe,
gnfgcpnbcnf.cfcpvsangc qv.cfo.cgnfgcpnbcrquv.cpqqo,cybexcpqqoc qjbcfo.
pbbcnsjcfgcnspcrqewtcNspcnbfegcgneqhhb.cifsokuvvxcfpcnbcebf.csgt

Fafsocsgcrfpcfcrfejchesangc.fxtcBfevxcsocgnbcjqeosoa,cfgcpsdcq’ vq w,cnb
rbogcqkkcgqcrqewcqocgnbcesybechfow,crnbebcgnbxcupb.cgqciquo.cfvfhfpgbe
fo.crnbebcgnbebcrfpcfcwsvockqechfwsoacsgcsocfcpnb.tcGnbebcrbebcqovx
gnebbcqkcgnbjcpbogtcQobcqkcgnbc qoys gpcrbogcrsgncgnbcaufe.cgqcgnb
kqegebppcgqckbg ncfcgqqv;cgnbcqgnbechbafocabggsoacgnbcrqq.cebf.xcfo.
vfxsoacsgcsocgnbcwsvotcEfpwqvoswqyc fjbcqugcqkcgnbcpnb.cqocgqcgnbcesybe
hfow,cpfgc.qrocqocfcnbficqkcvqapchxcgnbcpnb.cfo.chbafocafzsoacfgcgnb
rs.bc.bpbegb.cesybetcKeqjcgnbcnsanchfowcfcheqf.cvfo.p fibcqibob.chbkqeb
nsj,cgnbcpquo.cqkcpsoasoackvqfgb.ckfsogvxcfu.shvbckeqjcgnbcqgnbechfowt
Socgnbcyfpgcpgbiib,chfgnb.csocpuopnsob,cnbc quv.cmupgcpbb,cvswbchvf w
pib wp,cgnbcoqjf.p’cgbogptcGnbebcgnbebcrfpckebb.qj,cgnbebcqgnbecjbocrbeb
vsysoa,cuggbevxcuovswbcgnqpbcnbeb;cgnbebcgsjbcsgpbvkcpbbjb.cgqcpgfo.
pgsvv,cfpcgnquancgnbcfabcqkcFhefnfjcfo.cnspckvq wpcnf.coqgcifppb.t
Efpwqvoswqycpfgcafzsoa,cnspcgnquangpcifppb.csogqc.fx-.ebfjp,csogq
 qogbjivfgsqo;cnbcgnquangcqkcoqgnsoa,chugcfcyfaubcebpgvbppobppcbd sgb.
fo.cgequhvb.cnsjtcPu..bovxcnbckquo.cPqosfchbps.bcnsj;cpnbcnf.c qjbcui
oqspbvbppvxcfo.cpfgc.qrocfgcnspcps.btcSgcrfpcpgsvvclusgbcbfevx;cgnb
jqeosoac nsvvcrfpcpgsvvcwbbotcPnbcrqebcnbeciqqecqv.chueoqupcfo.cgnb
aebbocpnfrv;cnbeckf bcpgsvvcpnqrb.cpsaopcqkcsvvobpp,csgcrfpcgnsoobecfo.
ifvbetcPnbcafybcnsjcfcmqxkuvcpjsvbcqkcrbv qjb,chugcnbv.cqugcnbecnfo.
rsgncnbecupufvcgsjs.sgxtcPnbcrfpcfvrfxpcgsjs.cqkcnqv.soacqugcnbecnfo.
gqcnsjcfo.cpqjbgsjbpc.s.coqgcqkkbecsgcfgcfvv,cfpcgnquancfkefs.cnbcrquv.
ebibvcsgtcNbcfvrfxpcgqqwcnbecnfo.cfpcgnquancrsgncebiuaofo b,cfvrfxp
pbbjb.cybdb.cgqcjbbgcnbecfo.crfpcpqjbgsjbpcqhpgsofgbvxcpsvbogcgnequanqug
nbecyspsgtcPqjbgsjbpcpnbcgebjhvb.chbkqebcnsjcfo.crbogcfrfxc.bbivx
aesbyb.tcHugcoqrcgnbsecnfo.pc.s.coqgcifegtcNbcpgqvbcfcefis.cavfo b
fgcnbecfo.c.eqiib.cnspcbxbpcqocgnbcaequo.crsgnqugcpibfwsoatcGnbxcrbeb
fvqob,coqcqobcnf.cpbbocgnbjtcGnbcaufe.cnf.cgueob.cfrfxckqecgnbcgsjbt

Nqrcsgcnfiibob.cnbc.s.coqgcwoqrtcHugcfvvcfgcqo bcpqjbgnsoacpbbjb.cgq
pbszbcnsjcfo.ckvsoacnsjcfgcnbeckbbgtcNbcrbigcfo.cgnebrcnspcfejpcequo.
nbecwobbptcKqecgnbcksepgcsopgfogcpnbcrfpcgbeeshvxckesangbob.cfo.cpnb
gueob.cifvbtcPnbcmujib.cuicfo.cvqqwb.cfgcnsjcgebjhvsoatcHugcfgcgnbcpfjb
jqjbogcpnbcuo.bepgqq.,cfo.cfcvsangcqkcsoksosgbcnfiisobppc fjbcsogqcnbe
bxbptcPnbcwobrcfo.cnf.coqc.quhgcgnfgcnbcvqyb.cnbechbxqo.cbybexgnsoacfo.
gnfgcfgcvfpgcgnbcjqjbogcnf.c qjbtttt

Gnbxcrfogb.cgqcpibfw,chugc quv.coqg;cgbfepcpgqq.csocgnbsecbxbptcGnbx
rbebchqgncifvbcfo.cgnso;chugcgnqpbcps wcifvbckf bpcrbebchesangcrsgncgnb
.frocqkcfcobrckugueb,cqkcfckuvvcebpueeb gsqocsogqcfcobrcvskbtcGnbxcrbeb
ebobrb.chxcvqyb;cgnbcnbfegcqkcbf ncnbv.csoksosgbcpque bpcqkcvskbckqecgnb
nbfegcqkcgnbcqgnbet

Gnbxcebpqvyb.cgqcrfsgcfo.chbcifgsbogtcGnbxcnf.cfoqgnbecpbybocxbfepcgq
rfsg,cfo.crnfgcgbeeshvbcpukkbesoacfo.crnfgcsoksosgbcnfiisobppchbkqeb
gnbj!cHugcnbcnf.cespbocfafsocfo.cnbcwobrcsgcfo.ckbvgcsgcsocfvvcnsp
hbsoa,crnsvbcpnb--pnbcqovxcvsyb.csocnspcvskbt

Qocgnbcbybosoacqkcgnbcpfjbc.fx,crnbocgnbchfeef wpcrbebcvq wb.,
Efpwqvoswqycvfxcqocnspcivfowchb.cfo.cgnquangcqkcnbetcNbcnf.cbybockfo sb.
gnfgc.fxcgnfgcfvvcgnbc qoys gpcrnqcnf.chbbocnspcbobjsbpcvqqwb.cfgcnsj
.skkbebogvx;cnbcnf.cbybocbogbeb.csogqcgfvwcrsgncgnbjcfo.cgnbxcfoprbeb.
nsjcsocfckesbo.vxcrfxtcNbcebjbjhbeb.cgnfgcoqr,cfo.cgnquangcsgcrfpchquo.
gqchbcpqtcRfpo’gcbybexgnsoacoqrchquo.cgqchbc nfoab.?

NbcgnquangcqkcnbetcNbcebjbjhbeb.cnqrc qogsoufvvxcnbcnf.cgqejbogb.cnbe
fo.crquo.b.cnbecnbfegtcNbcebjbjhbeb.cnbecifvbcfo.cgnsocvsggvbckf bt
Hugcgnbpbceb qvvb gsqopcp fe bvxcgequhvb.cnsjcoqr;cnbcwobrcrsgncrnfg
soksosgbcvqybcnbcrquv.coqrcebifxcfvvcnbecpukkbesoaptcFo.crnfgcrbebcfvv,
_fvv_cgnbcfaqosbpcqkcgnbcifpg!cBybexgnsoa,cbybocnspc esjb,cnspcpbogbo b
fo.csjiespqojbog,cpbbjb.cgqcnsjcoqrcsocgnbcksepgceupncqkckbbvsoacfo
bdgbeofv,cpgefoabckf gcrsgncrns ncnbcnf.coqc qo beotcHugcnbc quv.coqg
gnsowckqecvqoacgqabgnbecqkcfoxgnsoacgnfgcbybosoa,cfo.cnbc quv.coqgcnfyb
fofvxpb.cfoxgnsoac qop squpvx;cnbcrfpcpsjivxckbbvsoatcVskbcnf.cpgbiib.
sogqcgnbcivf bcqkcgnbqexcfo.cpqjbgnsoaclusgbc.skkbebogcrquv.crqewcsgpbvk
qugcsocnspcjso.t

Uo.becnspcisvvqrcvfxcgnbcObrcGbpgfjbogtcNbcgqqwcsgcuicjb nfos fvvxt
Gnbchqqwchbvqoab.cgqcPqosf;csgcrfpcgnbcqobckeqjcrns ncpnbcnf.cebf.cgnb
efspsoacqkcVfzfeupcgqcnsjtcFgcksepgcnbcrfpcfkefs.cgnfgcpnbcrquv.crqeex
nsjcfhqugcebvsasqo,crquv.cgfvwcfhqugcgnbcaqpibvcfo.cibpgbecnsjcrsgn
hqqwptcHugcgqcnspcaebfgcpueiespbcpnbcnf.coqgcqo bcfiieqf nb.cgnbcpuhmb g
fo.cnf.coqgcbybocqkkbeb.cnsjcgnbcGbpgfjbogtcNbcnf.cfpwb.cnbeckqecsg
nsjpbvkcoqgcvqoachbkqebcnspcsvvobppcfo.cpnbchequangcnsjcgnbchqqwcrsgnqug
fcrqe.tcGsvvcoqrcnbcnf.coqgcqibob.csgt

Nbc.s.coqgcqibocsgcoqr,chugcqobcgnquangcifppb.cgnequancnspcjso.:c“ fo
nbec qoys gsqopcoqgchbcjsobcoqr?cNbeckbbvsoap,cnbecfpisefgsqopcfg
vbfpgtttt”

Pnbcgqqcnf.chbbocaebfgvxcfasgfgb.cgnfgc.fx,cfo.cfgcosangcpnbcrfpcgfwbo
svvcfafsotcHugcpnbcrfpcpqcnfiix--fo.cpqcuobdib gb.vxcnfiix--gnfgcpnbcrfp
fvjqpgckesangbob.cqkcnbecnfiisobpptcPbybocxbfep,c_qovx_cpbybocxbfep!cFg
gnbchbasoosoacqkcgnbsecnfiisobppcfgcpqjbcjqjbogpcgnbxcrbebchqgncebf.x
gqcvqqwcqocgnqpbcpbybocxbfepcfpcgnquancgnbxcrbebcpbyboc.fxptcNbc.s.coqg
woqrcgnfgcgnbcobrcvskbcrquv.coqgchbcasybocnsjckqecoqgnsoa,cgnfgcnbcrquv.
nfybcgqcifxc.bfevxckqecsg,cgnfgcsgcrquv.c qpgcnsjcaebfgcpgesysoa,caebfg
pukkbesoat

Hugcgnfgcspcgnbchbasoosoacqkcfcobrcpgqex--gnbcpgqexcqkcgnbcaef.ufv
ebobrfvcqkcfcjfo,cgnbcpgqexcqkcnspcaef.ufvcebabobefgsqo,cqkcnspcifppsoa
keqjcqobcrqev.csogqcfoqgnbe,cqkcnspcsosgsfgsqocsogqcfcobrcuowoqrocvskbt
Gnfgcjsangchbcgnbcpuhmb gcqkcfcobrcpgqex,chugcqueciebpbogcpgqexcsp
bo.b.t





Bo.cqkcIeqmb gcAugbohbea’pc esjbcfo.cIuospnjbog,chxcKxq.qec.qpgqbypwx

***cBO.cQKcGNSPcIEQMB GcAUGBOHBEAcBHQQWc ESJBcFO.cIUOSPNJBOGc***

*****cGnspcksvbcpnquv.chbcofjb.c2554-0tgdgcqec2554-0tzsic*****
Gnspcfo.cfvvcfppq sfgb.cksvbpcqkcyfesqupckqejfgpcrsvvchbckquo.cso:
ccccccccnggi://rrrtaugbohbeatqea/2/5/5/2554/

Ieq.u b.chxcMqnocHs wbep;cfo.c.faoxcfo.c.fys.cRs.abe

Ui.fgb.cb.sgsqopcrsvvcebivf bcgnbciebysqupcqob--gnbcqv.cb.sgsqop
rsvvchbcebofjb.t

 ebfgsoacgnbcrqewpckeqjciuhvs c.qjfsociesogcb.sgsqopcjbfopcgnfgcoq
qobcqropcfcUosgb.cPgfgbpc qixesangcsocgnbpbcrqewp,cpqcgnbcKquo.fgsqo
(fo.cxqu!)c foc qixcfo.c.spgeshugbcsgcsocgnbcUosgb.cPgfgbpcrsgnqug
ibejsppsqocfo.crsgnqugcifxsoac qixesangceqxfvgsbptccPib sfvceuvbp,
pbgckqegncsocgnbcAbobefvcGbejpcqkcUpbcifegcqkcgnspcvs bopb,cfiivxcgq
 qixsoacfo.c.spgeshugsoacIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcbvb geqos crqewpcgq
ieqgb gcgnbcIEQMB GcAUGBOHBEA-gjc qo bigcfo.cgef.bjfewtccIeqmb g
Augbohbeacspcfcebaspgbeb.cgef.bjfew,cfo.cjfxcoqgchbcupb.cskcxqu
 nfeabckqecgnbcbHqqwp,cuovbppcxquceb bsybcpib sks cibejsppsqotccSkcxqu
.qcoqgc nfeabcfoxgnsoackqec qisbpcqkcgnspcbHqqw,c qjivxsoacrsgncgnb
euvbpcspcybexcbfpxtccXqucjfxcupbcgnspcbHqqwckqecobfevxcfoxciueiqpb
pu ncfpc ebfgsqocqkc.besyfgsybcrqewp,cebiqegp,cibekqejfo bpcfo.
ebpbfe ntccGnbxcjfxchbcjq.sksb.cfo.ciesogb.cfo.casybocfrfx--xqucjfxc.q
ief gs fvvxcFOXGNSOAcrsgnciuhvs c.qjfsocbHqqwptccEb.spgeshugsqocsp
puhmb gcgqcgnbcgef.bjfewcvs bopb,cbpib sfvvxc qjjbe sfv
eb.spgeshugsqot



***cPGFEG:cKUVVcVS BOPBc***

GNBcKUVVcIEQMB GcAUGBOHBEAcVS BOPB
IVBFPBcEBF.cGNSPcHBKQEBcXQUc.SPGESHUGBcQEcUPBcGNSPcRQEW

Gqcieqgb gcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcjsppsqocqkcieqjqgsoacgnbckebb
.spgeshugsqocqkcbvb geqos crqewp,chxcupsoacqec.spgeshugsoacgnspcrqew
(qecfoxcqgnbecrqewcfppq sfgb.csocfoxcrfxcrsgncgnbcinefpbc“Ieqmb g
Augbohbea”),cxqucfaebbcgqc qjivxcrsgncfvvcgnbcgbejpcqkcgnbcKuvvcIeqmb g
Augbohbea-gjcVs bopbc(fyfsvfhvbcrsgncgnspcksvbcqecqovsobcfg
nggi://augbohbeatqea/vs bopb)t


Pb gsqoc1tccAbobefvcGbejpcqkcUpbcfo.cEb.spgeshugsoacIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gj
bvb geqos crqewp

1tFtccHxcebf.soacqecupsoacfoxcifegcqkcgnspcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gj
bvb geqos crqew,cxqucso.s fgbcgnfgcxqucnfybcebf.,cuo.bepgfo.,cfaebbcgq
fo.cf  bigcfvvcgnbcgbejpcqkcgnspcvs bopbcfo.csogbvvb gufvcieqibegx
(gef.bjfew/ qixesang)cfaebbjbogtccSkcxquc.qcoqgcfaebbcgqcfhs.bchxcfvv
gnbcgbejpcqkcgnspcfaebbjbog,cxqucjupgc bfpbcupsoacfo.cebgueocqec.bpgeqx
fvvc qisbpcqkcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcbvb geqos crqewpcsocxqueciqppbppsqot
Skcxqucifs.cfckbbckqecqhgfsosoacfc qixcqkcqecf  bppcgqcfcIeqmb g
Augbohbea-gjcbvb geqos crqewcfo.cxquc.qcoqgcfaebbcgqchbchquo.chxcgnb
gbejpcqkcgnspcfaebbjbog,cxqucjfxcqhgfsocfcebkuo.ckeqjcgnbcibepqocqe
bogsgxcgqcrnqjcxqucifs.cgnbckbbcfpcpbgckqegncsocifefaefinc1tBt8t

1tHtcc“Ieqmb gcAugbohbea”cspcfcebaspgbeb.cgef.bjfewtccSgcjfxcqovxchb
upb.cqocqecfppq sfgb.csocfoxcrfxcrsgncfocbvb geqos crqewchxcibqivbcrnq
faebbcgqchbchquo.chxcgnbcgbejpcqkcgnspcfaebbjbogtccGnbebcfebcfckbr
gnsoapcgnfgcxquc foc.qcrsgncjqpgcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcbvb geqos crqewp
bybocrsgnqugc qjivxsoacrsgncgnbckuvvcgbejpcqkcgnspcfaebbjbogtccPbb
ifefaefinc1t chbvqrtccGnbebcfebcfcvqgcqkcgnsoapcxquc foc.qcrsgncIeqmb g
Augbohbea-gjcbvb geqos crqewpcskcxquckqvvqrcgnbcgbejpcqkcgnspcfaebbjbog
fo.cnbviciebpbeybckebbckuguebcf  bppcgqcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcbvb geqos 
rqewptccPbbcifefaefinc1tBchbvqrt

1t tccGnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbeacVsgbefexcFe nsybcKquo.fgsqoc(“gnbcKquo.fgsqo”
cqecIAVFK),cqropcfc qjisvfgsqoc qixesangcsocgnbc qvvb gsqocqkcIeqmb g
Augbohbea-gjcbvb geqos crqewptccObfevxcfvvcgnbcso.sys.ufvcrqewpcsocgnb
 qvvb gsqocfebcsocgnbciuhvs c.qjfsocsocgnbcUosgb.cPgfgbptccSkcfo
so.sys.ufvcrqewcspcsocgnbciuhvs c.qjfsocsocgnbcUosgb.cPgfgbpcfo.cxqucfeb
vq fgb.csocgnbcUosgb.cPgfgbp,crbc.qcoqgc vfsjcfcesangcgqciebybogcxquckeqj
 qixsoa,c.spgeshugsoa,cibekqejsoa,c.spivfxsoacqec ebfgsoac.besyfgsyb
rqewpchfpb.cqocgnbcrqewcfpcvqoacfpcfvvcebkbebo bpcgqcIeqmb gcAugbohbea
febcebjqyb.tccQkc quepb,crbcnqibcgnfgcxqucrsvvcpuiiqegcgnbcIeqmb g
Augbohbea-gjcjsppsqocqkcieqjqgsoackebbcf  bppcgqcbvb geqos crqewpchx
kebbvxcpnfesoacIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcrqewpcsoc qjivsfo bcrsgncgnbcgbejpcqk
gnspcfaebbjbogckqecwbbisoacgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcofjbcfppq sfgb.crsgn
gnbcrqewtccXquc focbfpsvxc qjivxcrsgncgnbcgbejpcqkcgnspcfaebbjbogchx
wbbisoacgnspcrqewcsocgnbcpfjbckqejfgcrsgncsgpcfggf nb.ckuvvcIeqmb g
Augbohbea-gjcVs bopbcrnbocxqucpnfebcsgcrsgnqugc nfeabcrsgncqgnbept

1t.tccGnbc qixesangcvfrpcqkcgnbcivf bcrnbebcxqucfebcvq fgb.cfvpqcaqybeo
rnfgcxquc foc.qcrsgncgnspcrqewtcc qixesangcvfrpcsocjqpgc quogesbpcfebcso
fc qopgfogcpgfgbcqkc nfoabtccSkcxqucfebcqugps.bcgnbcUosgb.cPgfgbp,c nb w
gnbcvfrpcqkcxquec quogexcsocf..sgsqocgqcgnbcgbejpcqkcgnspcfaebbjbog
hbkqebc.qrovqf.soa,c qixsoa,c.spivfxsoa,cibekqejsoa,c.spgeshugsoacqe
 ebfgsoac.besyfgsybcrqewpchfpb.cqocgnspcrqewcqecfoxcqgnbecIeqmb g
Augbohbea-gjcrqewtccGnbcKquo.fgsqocjfwbpcoqcebiebpbogfgsqopc qo beosoa
gnbc qixesangcpgfgupcqkcfoxcrqewcsocfoxc quogexcqugps.bcgnbcUosgb.
Pgfgbpt

1tBtccUovbppcxqucnfybcebjqyb.cfvvcebkbebo bpcgqcIeqmb gcAugbohbea:

1tBt1tccGnbckqvvqrsoacpbogbo b,crsgncf gsybcvsowpcgq,cqecqgnbecsjjb.sfgb
f  bppcgq,cgnbckuvvcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcVs bopbcjupgcfiibfecieqjsobogvx
rnbobybecfoxc qixcqkcfcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcrqewc(foxcrqewcqocrns ncgnb
inefpbc“Ieqmb gcAugbohbea”cfiibfep,cqecrsgncrns ncgnbcinefpbc“Ieqmb g
Augbohbea”cspcfppq sfgb.)cspcf  bppb.,c.spivfxb.,cibekqejb.,cysbrb.,
 qisb.cqec.spgeshugb.:

GnspcbHqqwcspckqecgnbcupbcqkcfoxqobcfoxrnbebcfgcoqc qpgcfo.crsgn
fvjqpgcoqcebpges gsqopcrnfgpqbybetccXqucjfxc qixcsg,casybcsgcfrfxcqe
eb-upbcsgcuo.becgnbcgbejpcqkcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbeacVs bopbcso vu.b.
rsgncgnspcbHqqwcqecqovsobcfgcrrrtaugbohbeatqea

1tBt2tccSkcfocso.sys.ufvcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcbvb geqos crqewcspc.besyb.
keqjcgnbciuhvs c.qjfsoc(.qbpcoqgc qogfsocfcoqgs bcso.s fgsoacgnfgcsgcsp
iqpgb.crsgncibejsppsqocqkcgnbc qixesangcnqv.be),cgnbcrqewc fochbc qisb.
fo.c.spgeshugb.cgqcfoxqobcsocgnbcUosgb.cPgfgbpcrsgnqugcifxsoacfoxckbbp
qec nfeabptccSkcxqucfebceb.spgeshugsoacqecieqys.soacf  bppcgqcfcrqew
rsgncgnbcinefpbc“Ieqmb gcAugbohbea”cfppq sfgb.crsgncqecfiibfesoacqocgnb
rqew,cxqucjupgc qjivxcbsgnbecrsgncgnbceblusebjbogpcqkcifefaefinpc1tBt1
gnequanc1tBt7cqecqhgfsocibejsppsqockqecgnbcupbcqkcgnbcrqewcfo.cgnb
Ieqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcgef.bjfewcfpcpbgckqegncsocifefaefinpc1tBt8cqe
1tBt9t

1tBt3tccSkcfocso.sys.ufvcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcbvb geqos crqewcspciqpgb.
rsgncgnbcibejsppsqocqkcgnbc qixesangcnqv.be,cxquecupbcfo.c.spgeshugsqo
jupgc qjivxcrsgnchqgncifefaefinpc1tBt1cgnequanc1tBt7cfo.cfoxcf..sgsqofv
gbejpcsjiqpb.chxcgnbc qixesangcnqv.betccF..sgsqofvcgbejpcrsvvchbcvsowb.
gqcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcVs bopbckqecfvvcrqewpciqpgb.crsgncgnb
ibejsppsqocqkcgnbc qixesangcnqv.beckquo.cfgcgnbchbasoosoacqkcgnspcrqewt

1tBt4tcc.qcoqgcuovsowcqec.bgf ncqecebjqybcgnbckuvvcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gj
Vs bopbcgbejpckeqjcgnspcrqew,cqecfoxcksvbpc qogfsosoacfcifegcqkcgnsp
rqewcqecfoxcqgnbecrqewcfppq sfgb.crsgncIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjt

1tBt5tcc.qcoqgc qix,c.spivfx,cibekqej,c.spgeshugbcqeceb.spgeshugbcgnsp
bvb geqos crqew,cqecfoxcifegcqkcgnspcbvb geqos crqew,crsgnqug
ieqjsobogvxc.spivfxsoacgnbcpbogbo bcpbgckqegncsocifefaefinc1tBt1crsgn
f gsybcvsowpcqecsjjb.sfgbcf  bppcgqcgnbckuvvcgbejpcqkcgnbcIeqmb g
Augbohbea-gjcVs bopbt

1tBt6tccXqucjfxc qoybegcgqcfo.c.spgeshugbcgnspcrqewcsocfoxchsofex,
 qjiebppb.,cjfewb.cui,coqoieqiesbgfexcqecieqiesbgfexckqej,cso vu.soacfox
rqe.cieq bppsoacqecnxibegbdgckqejtccNqrbybe,cskcxqucieqys.bcf  bppcgqcqe
.spgeshugbc qisbpcqkcfcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcrqewcsocfckqejfgcqgnbecgnfo
“IvfsocYfosvvfcFP SS”cqecqgnbeckqejfgcupb.csocgnbcqkks sfvcybepsqo
iqpgb.cqocgnbcqkks sfvcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcrbhcpsgbc(rrrtaugbohbeatqea),
xqucjupg,cfgcoqcf..sgsqofvc qpg,ckbbcqecbdibopbcgqcgnbcupbe,cieqys.bcf
 qix,cfcjbfopcqkcbdiqegsoacfc qix,cqecfcjbfopcqkcqhgfsosoacfc qixcuiqo
eblubpg,cqkcgnbcrqewcsocsgpcqesasofvc“IvfsocYfosvvfcFP SS”cqecqgnbe
kqejtccFoxcfvgbeofgbckqejfgcjupgcso vu.bcgnbckuvvcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gj
Vs bopbcfpcpib sksb.csocifefaefinc1tBt1t

1tBt7tcc.qcoqgc nfeabcfckbbckqecf  bppcgq,cysbrsoa,c.spivfxsoa,
ibekqejsoa,c qixsoacqec.spgeshugsoacfoxcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcrqewp
uovbppcxquc qjivxcrsgncifefaefinc1tBt8cqec1tBt9t

1tBt8tccXqucjfxc nfeabcfcebfpqofhvbckbbckqec qisbpcqkcqecieqys.soa
f  bppcgqcqec.spgeshugsoacIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcbvb geqos crqewpcieqys.b.
gnfg

-cXqucifxcfceqxfvgxckbbcqkc20%cqkcgnbcaeqppcieqksgpcxquc.besybckeqj
cccccgnbcupbcqkcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcrqewpc fv uvfgb.cupsoacgnbcjbgnq.
cccccxqucfvebf.xcupbcgqc fv uvfgbcxquecfiivs fhvbcgfdbptccGnbckbbcsp
cccccqrb.cgqcgnbcqrobecqkcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcgef.bjfew,chugcnb
cccccnfpcfaebb.cgqc.qofgbceqxfvgsbpcuo.becgnspcifefaefincgqcgnb
cccccIeqmb gcAugbohbeacVsgbefexcFe nsybcKquo.fgsqotccEqxfvgxcifxjbogp
cccccjupgchbcifs.crsgnsoc60c.fxpckqvvqrsoacbf nc.fgbcqocrns ncxqu
ccccciebifebc(qecfebcvbafvvxcebluseb.cgqciebifeb)cxquecibesq.s cgfd
cccccebgueoptccEqxfvgxcifxjbogpcpnquv.chbc vbfevxcjfewb.cfpcpu ncfo.
cccccpbogcgqcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbeacVsgbefexcFe nsybcKquo.fgsqocfgcgnb
cccccf..ebppcpib sksb.csocPb gsqoc4,c“Sokqejfgsqocfhqugc.qofgsqopcgq
cccccgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbeacVsgbefexcFe nsybcKquo.fgsqot”

-cXqucieqys.bcfckuvvcebkuo.cqkcfoxcjqobxcifs.chxcfcupbecrnqcoqgsksbp
cccccxqucsocresgsoac(qechxcb-jfsv)crsgnsoc30c.fxpcqkceb bsigcgnfgcp/nb
ccccc.qbpcoqgcfaebbcgqcgnbcgbejpcqkcgnbckuvvcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gj
cccccVs bopbtccXqucjupgceblusebcpu ncfcupbecgqcebgueocqe
ccccc.bpgeqxcfvvc qisbpcqkcgnbcrqewpciqppbppb.csocfcinxps fvcjb.suj
cccccfo.c.sp qogsoubcfvvcupbcqkcfo.cfvvcf  bppcgqcqgnbec qisbpcqk
cccccIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcrqewpt

-cXqucieqys.b,csocf  qe.fo bcrsgncifefaefinc1tKt3,cfckuvvcebkuo.cqkcfox
cccccjqobxcifs.ckqecfcrqewcqecfcebivf bjbogc qix,cskcfc.bkb gcsocgnb
cccccbvb geqos crqewcspc.sp qybeb.cfo.cebiqegb.cgqcxqucrsgnsoc90c.fxp
cccccqkceb bsigcqkcgnbcrqewt

-cXquc qjivxcrsgncfvvcqgnbecgbejpcqkcgnspcfaebbjbogckqeckebb
ccccc.spgeshugsqocqkcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcrqewpt

1tBt9tccSkcxqucrspncgqc nfeabcfckbbcqec.spgeshugbcfcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gj
bvb geqos crqewcqecaequicqkcrqewpcqoc.skkbebogcgbejpcgnfocfebcpbg
kqegncsocgnspcfaebbjbog,cxqucjupgcqhgfsocibejsppsqocsocresgsoackeqj
hqgncgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbeacVsgbefexcFe nsybcKquo.fgsqocfo.cJs nfbv
Nfeg,cgnbcqrobecqkcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcgef.bjfewtcc qogf gcgnb
Kquo.fgsqocfpcpbgckqegncsocPb gsqoc3chbvqrt

1tKt

1tKt1tccIeqmb gcAugbohbeacyqvuogbbepcfo.cbjivqxbbpcbdibo.c qops.befhvb
bkkqegcgqcs.bogskx,c.qc qixesangcebpbfe ncqo,cgefop eshbcfo.cieqqkebf.
iuhvs c.qjfsocrqewpcsoc ebfgsoacgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gj
 qvvb gsqotcc.bpisgbcgnbpbcbkkqegp,cIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcbvb geqos 
rqewp,cfo.cgnbcjb.sujcqocrns ncgnbxcjfxchbcpgqeb.,cjfxc qogfso
“.bkb gp,”cpu ncfp,chugcoqgcvsjsgb.cgq,cso qjivbgb,csof  uefgbcqe
 qeeuigc.fgf,cgefop esigsqocbeeqep,cfc qixesangcqecqgnbecsogbvvb gufv
ieqibegxcsokesoabjbog,cfc.bkb gsybcqec.fjfab.c.spwcqecqgnbecjb.suj,cf
 qjiugbecyseup,cqec qjiugbec q.bpcgnfgc.fjfabcqec fooqgchbcebf.chx
xquecblusijbogt

1tKt2tccVSJSGB.cRFEEFOGX,c.SP VFSJBEcQKc.FJFABPc-cBd bigckqecgnbc“Esang
qkcEbivf bjbogcqecEbkuo.”c.bp eshb.csocifefaefinc1tKt3,cgnbcIeqmb g
AugbohbeacVsgbefexcFe nsybcKquo.fgsqo,cgnbcqrobecqkcgnbcIeqmb g
Augbohbea-gjcgef.bjfew,cfo.cfoxcqgnbecifegxc.spgeshugsoacfcIeqmb g
Augbohbea-gjcbvb geqos crqewcuo.becgnspcfaebbjbog,c.sp vfsjcfvv
vsfhsvsgxcgqcxquckqec.fjfabp,c qpgpcfo.cbdibopbp,cso vu.soacvbafv
kbbptccXQUcFAEBBcGNFGcXQUcNFYBcOQcEBJB.SBPcKQEcOBAVSABO B,cPGES G
VSFHSVSGX,cHEBF NcQKcRFEEFOGXcQEcHEBF NcQKc QOGEF GcBD BIGcGNQPB
IEQYS.B.cSOcIFEFAEFINcK3tccXQUcFAEBBcGNFGcGNBcKQUO.FGSQO,cGNB
GEF.BJFEWcQROBE,cFO.cFOXc.SPGESHUGQEcUO.BEcGNSPcFAEBBJBOGcRSVVcOQGcHB
VSFHVBcGQcXQUcKQEcF GUFV,c.SEB G,cSO.SEB G,c QOPBLUBOGSFV,cIUOSGSYBcQE
SO S.BOGFVc.FJFABPcBYBOcSKcXQUcASYBcOQGS BcQKcGNBcIQPPSHSVSGXcQKcPU N
.FJFABt

1tKt3tccVSJSGB.cESANGcQKcEBIVF BJBOGcQEcEBKUO.c-cSkcxquc.sp qybecf
.bkb gcsocgnspcbvb geqos crqewcrsgnsoc90c.fxpcqkceb bsysoacsg,cxquc fo
eb bsybcfcebkuo.cqkcgnbcjqobxc(skcfox)cxqucifs.ckqecsgchxcpbo.soacf
resggbocbdivfofgsqocgqcgnbcibepqocxquceb bsyb.cgnbcrqewckeqjtccSkcxqu
eb bsyb.cgnbcrqewcqocfcinxps fvcjb.suj,cxqucjupgcebgueocgnbcjb.sujcrsgn
xquecresggbocbdivfofgsqotccGnbcibepqocqecbogsgxcgnfgcieqys.b.cxqucrsgn
gnbc.bkb gsybcrqewcjfxcbvb gcgqcieqys.bcfcebivf bjbogc qixcsocvsbucqkcf
ebkuo.tccSkcxquceb bsyb.cgnbcrqewcbvb geqos fvvx,cgnbcibepqocqecbogsgx
ieqys.soacsgcgqcxqucjfxc nqqpbcgqcasybcxqucfcpb qo.cqiiqeguosgxcgq
eb bsybcgnbcrqewcbvb geqos fvvxcsocvsbucqkcfcebkuo.tccSkcgnbcpb qo.c qix
spcfvpqc.bkb gsyb,cxqucjfxc.bjfo.cfcebkuo.csocresgsoacrsgnqugckuegnbe
qiiqeguosgsbpcgqcksdcgnbcieqhvbjt

1tKt4tccBd bigckqecgnbcvsjsgb.cesangcqkcebivf bjbogcqecebkuo.cpbgckqegn
socifefaefinc1tKt3,cgnspcrqewcspcieqys.b.cgqcxquc‘FP-SP’cRSGNcOQcQGNBE
RFEEFOGSBPcQKcFOXcWSO.,cBDIEBPPcQEcSJIVSB.,cSO VU.SOAcHUGcOQGcVSJSGB.cGQ
RFEEFOGSBPcQKcJBE NFOGSHSVSGXcQEcKSGOBPPcKQEcFOXcIUEIQPBt

1tKt5tccPqjbcpgfgbpc.qcoqgcfvvqrc.sp vfsjbepcqkc begfsocsjivsb.
rfeefogsbpcqecgnbcbd vupsqocqecvsjsgfgsqocqkc begfsocgxibpcqkc.fjfabpt
Skcfoxc.sp vfsjbecqecvsjsgfgsqocpbgckqegncsocgnspcfaebbjbogcysqvfgbpcgnb
vfrcqkcgnbcpgfgbcfiivs fhvbcgqcgnspcfaebbjbog,cgnbcfaebbjbogcpnfvvchb
sogbeiebgb.cgqcjfwbcgnbcjfdsjujc.sp vfsjbecqecvsjsgfgsqocibejsggb.chx
gnbcfiivs fhvbcpgfgbcvfrtccGnbcsoyfvs.sgxcqecuobokqe bfhsvsgxcqkcfox
ieqyspsqocqkcgnspcfaebbjbogcpnfvvcoqgcyqs.cgnbcebjfsosoacieqyspsqopt

1tKt6tccSO.BJOSGXc-cXqucfaebbcgqcso.bjoskxcfo.cnqv.cgnbcKquo.fgsqo,cgnb
gef.bjfewcqrobe,cfoxcfabogcqecbjivqxbbcqkcgnbcKquo.fgsqo,cfoxqob
ieqys.soac qisbpcqkcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcbvb geqos crqewpcsocf  qe.fo b
rsgncgnspcfaebbjbog,cfo.cfoxcyqvuogbbepcfppq sfgb.crsgncgnbcieq.u gsqo,
ieqjqgsqocfo.c.spgeshugsqocqkcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcbvb geqos crqewp,
nfejvbppckeqjcfvvcvsfhsvsgx,c qpgpcfo.cbdibopbp,cso vu.soacvbafvckbbp,
gnfgcfespbc.seb gvxcqecso.seb gvxckeqjcfoxcqkcgnbckqvvqrsoacrns ncxquc.q
qec fupbcgqcq  ue:c(f)c.spgeshugsqocqkcgnspcqecfoxcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gj
rqew,c(h)cfvgbefgsqo,cjq.sks fgsqo,cqecf..sgsqopcqec.bvbgsqopcgqcfox
Ieqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcrqew,cfo.c( )cfoxc.bkb gcxquc fupbt


Pb gsqocc2tccSokqejfgsqocfhqugcgnbcJsppsqocqkcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gj

Ieqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcspcpxoqoxjqupcrsgncgnbckebbc.spgeshugsqocqk
bvb geqos crqewpcsockqejfgpcebf.fhvbchxcgnbcrs.bpgcyfesbgxcqkc qjiugbep
so vu.soacqhpqvbgb,cqv.,cjs..vb-fab.cfo.cobrc qjiugbeptccSgcbdspgp
hb fupbcqkcgnbcbkkqegpcqkcnuo.eb.pcqkcyqvuogbbepcfo.c.qofgsqopckeqj
ibqivbcsocfvvcrfvwpcqkcvskbt

Yqvuogbbepcfo.cksofo sfvcpuiiqegcgqcieqys.bcyqvuogbbepcrsgncgnb
fppspgfo bcgnbxcobb.,cspc esgs fvcgqcebf nsoacIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gj’p
aqfvpcfo.cbopuesoacgnfgcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjc qvvb gsqocrsvv
ebjfsockebbvxcfyfsvfhvbckqecabobefgsqopcgqc qjbtccSoc2001,cgnbcIeqmb g
AugbohbeacVsgbefexcFe nsybcKquo.fgsqocrfpc ebfgb.cgqcieqys.bcfcpb ueb
fo.cibejfobogckuguebckqecIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcfo.ckuguebcabobefgsqopt
GqcvbfeocjqebcfhqugcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbeacVsgbefexcFe nsybcKquo.fgsqo
fo.cnqrcxquecbkkqegpcfo.c.qofgsqopc focnbvi,cpbbcPb gsqopc3cfo.c4
fo.cgnbcKquo.fgsqocrbhcifabcfgcnggi://rrrtiavfktqeat


Pb gsqoc3tccSokqejfgsqocfhqugcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbeacVsgbefexcFe nsyb
Kquo.fgsqo

GnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbeacVsgbefexcFe nsybcKquo.fgsqocspcfcoqocieqksg
501( )(3)cb.u fgsqofvc qeiqefgsqocqeafoszb.cuo.becgnbcvfrpcqkcgnb
pgfgbcqkcJsppsppsiiscfo.caefogb.cgfdcbdbjigcpgfgupchxcgnbcSogbeofv
EbyboubcPbeys btccGnbcKquo.fgsqo’pcBSOcqeckb.befvcgfdcs.bogsks fgsqo
oujhbecspc64-6221541tccSgpc501( )(3)cvbggbecspciqpgb.cfg
nggi://iavfktqea/kuo.efspsoatcc qogeshugsqopcgqcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbea
VsgbefexcFe nsybcKquo.fgsqocfebcgfdc.b.u gshvbcgqcgnbckuvvcbdgbog
ibejsggb.chxcUtPtckb.befvcvfrpcfo.cxquecpgfgb’pcvfrpt

GnbcKquo.fgsqo’pcieso sifvcqkks bcspcvq fgb.cfgc4557cJbvfoc.etcPt
Kfsehfowp,cFW,c99712t,chugcsgpcyqvuogbbepcfo.cbjivqxbbpcfebcp fggbeb.
gnequanqugcoujbequpcvq fgsqoptccSgpchupsobppcqkks bcspcvq fgb.cfg
809cOqegnc1500cRbpg,cPfvgcVfwbc sgx,cUGc84116,c(801)c596-1887,cbjfsv
hupsobpp@iavfktqeatccBjfsvc qogf gcvsowpcfo.cuicgqc.fgbc qogf g
sokqejfgsqoc fochbckquo.cfgcgnbcKquo.fgsqo’pcrbhcpsgbcfo.cqkks sfv
ifabcfgcnggi://iavfktqea

Kqecf..sgsqofvc qogf gcsokqejfgsqo:
ccccc.etcAebaqexcHtcObrhx
ccccc nsbkcBdb ugsybcfo.c.seb gqe
cccccahobrhx@iavfktqea


Pb gsqoc4tccSokqejfgsqocfhqugc.qofgsqopcgqcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbea
VsgbefexcFe nsybcKquo.fgsqo

Ieqmb gcAugbohbea-gjc.bibo.pcuiqocfo.c fooqgcpueysybcrsgnqugcrs.b
piebf.ciuhvs cpuiiqegcfo.c.qofgsqopcgqc feexcqugcsgpcjsppsqocqk
so ebfpsoacgnbcoujhbecqkciuhvs c.qjfsocfo.cvs bopb.crqewpcgnfgc fochb
kebbvxc.spgeshugb.csocjf nsobcebf.fhvbckqejcf  bppshvbchxcgnbcrs.bpg
feefxcqkcblusijbogcso vu.soacqug.fgb.cblusijbogtccJfoxcpjfvvc.qofgsqop
($1cgqc$5,000)cfebcifegs uvfevxcsjiqegfogcgqcjfsogfsosoacgfdcbdbjig
pgfgupcrsgncgnbcSEPt

GnbcKquo.fgsqocspc qjjsggb.cgqc qjivxsoacrsgncgnbcvfrpcebauvfgsoa
 nfesgsbpcfo.c nfesgfhvbc.qofgsqopcsocfvvc50cpgfgbpcqkcgnbcUosgb.
Pgfgbptcc qjivsfo bceblusebjbogpcfebcoqgcuoskqejcfo.csgcgfwbpcf
 qops.befhvbcbkkqeg,cju ncifiberqewcfo.cjfoxckbbpcgqcjbbgcfo.cwbbicui
rsgncgnbpbceblusebjbogptccRbc.qcoqgcpqvs sgc.qofgsqopcsocvq fgsqop
rnbebcrbcnfybcoqgceb bsyb.cresggboc qoksejfgsqocqkc qjivsfo btccGq
PBO.c.QOFGSQOPcqec.bgbejsobcgnbcpgfgupcqkc qjivsfo bckqecfox
ifegs uvfecpgfgbcyspsgcnggi://iavfktqea

Rnsvbcrbc fooqgcfo.c.qcoqgcpqvs sgc qogeshugsqopckeqjcpgfgbpcrnbebcrb
nfybcoqgcjbgcgnbcpqvs sgfgsqoceblusebjbogp,crbcwoqrcqkcoqcieqnshsgsqo
fafsopgcf  bigsoacuopqvs sgb.c.qofgsqopckeqjc.qoqepcsocpu ncpgfgbpcrnq
fiieqf ncupcrsgncqkkbepcgqc.qofgbt

Sogbeofgsqofvc.qofgsqopcfebcaefgbkuvvxcf  bigb.,chugcrbc fooqgcjfwb
foxcpgfgbjbogpc qo beosoacgfdcgebfgjbogcqkc.qofgsqopceb bsyb.ckeqj
qugps.bcgnbcUosgb.cPgfgbptccUtPtcvfrpcfvqobcprfjicquecpjfvvcpgfkkt

Ivbfpbc nb wcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbeacRbhcifabpckqec ueebogc.qofgsqo
jbgnq.pcfo.cf..ebppbptcc.qofgsqopcfebcf  bigb.csocfcoujhbecqkcqgnbe
rfxpcso vu.soac nb wp,cqovsobcifxjbogpcfo.c eb.sgc fe.c.qofgsqopt
Gqc.qofgb,civbfpbcyspsg:cnggi://iavfktqea/.qofgb


Pb gsqoc5tccAbobefvcSokqejfgsqocFhqugcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcbvb geqos 
rqewpt

IeqkbppqecJs nfbvcPtcNfegcspcgnbcqesasofgqecqkcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gj
 qo bigcqkcfcvshefexcqkcbvb geqos crqewpcgnfgc quv.chbckebbvxcpnfeb.
rsgncfoxqobtccKqecgnsegxcxbfep,cnbcieq.u b.cfo.c.spgeshugb.cIeqmb g
Augbohbea-gjcbHqqwpcrsgncqovxcfcvqqpbcobgrqewcqkcyqvuogbbecpuiiqegt


Ieqmb gcAugbohbea-gjcbHqqwpcfebcqkgboc ebfgb.ckeqjcpbybefvciesogb.
b.sgsqop,cfvvcqkcrns ncfebc qoksejb.cfpcIuhvs c.qjfsocsocgnbcUtPt
uovbppcfc qixesangcoqgs bcspcso vu.b.tccGnup,crbc.qcoqgcob bppfesvx
wbbicbHqqwpcsoc qjivsfo bcrsgncfoxcifegs uvfecifibecb.sgsqot


JqpgcibqivbcpgfegcfgcquecRbhcpsgbcrns ncnfpcgnbcjfsocIAcpbfe nckf svsgx:

cccccnggi://rrrtaugbohbeatqea

GnspcRbhcpsgbcso vu.bpcsokqejfgsqocfhqugcIeqmb gcAugbohbea-gj,
so vu.soacnqrcgqcjfwbc.qofgsqopcgqcgnbcIeqmb gcAugbohbeacVsgbefex
Fe nsybcKquo.fgsqo,cnqrcgqcnbvicieq.u bcquecobrcbHqqwp,cfo.cnqrcgq
puhp eshbcgqcquecbjfsvcobrpvbggbecgqcnbfecfhqugcobrcbHqqwpt
