
 azwo.ruTsrofmoat'cuRqouQzsfxuziurqouMdcjoapbggoc,umyuDarqsau.zfdfuXzygo

RqbcuoMzzjubcuizaurqouscouziudfyzfoudfynqoaoudrufzu.zcrudfxunbrq
dgvzcrufzuaocrab.rbzfcunqdrczopoakuuYzsuvdyu.z yubr,utbpoubrudndyuza
ao-scoubrusfxoaurqouroavcuziurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoatuGb.ofcoubf.gsxox
nbrqurqbcuoMzzjuzauzfgbfoudrunnnktsrofmoatkzat


Rbrgo:uRqouQzsfxuziurqouMdcjoapbggoc

Dsrqza:uDarqsau.zfdfuXzygo

AogodcouXdro:uXo.ovmoau8,u2008u[OMzzju#2852]
GdcruS xdrox:uWsgyu19,u2019

Gdftsdto:uOftgbcq

.qdad.roaucoruof.zxbft:uSRI-8

***uCRDARuZIuRQBCu AZWO.RuTSROFMOATuOMZZJuRQOuQZSFXuZIuRQOuMDCJOAPBGGOCu***




 azxs.oxumyuCqaoopdrcduA,udfxuXdpbxuNbxtoa






.zpoau



RQOuQZSFXuZIuRQOuMDCJOAPBGGOC



DfzrqoauDxpofrsaouziuCqoagz.juQzgvoc


myuDku.zfdfuXzygo




VyuxodauAzmbfczf,


uuuuBrundcurzuyzsaud..zsfruziuduNocr-.zsfrayugotofxurqdrurqbcurdgouznocubrc
bf.o rbzfkuIzaurqbcudfxuizauyzsauqog ubfurqouxordbgcudggurqdfjck



Yzsacuvzcrurasgy,uuuuuuuu

Dku.zfdfuXzygokuuuu



Qbfxqodx,

uuuuQdcgovoaok



.zfrofrc


u.qd roau1	VakuCqoagz.juQzgvoc
u.qd roau2	Rqou.sacouziurqouMdcjoapbggoc
u.qd roau3	Rqou azmgov
u.qd roau4	CbauQofayuMdcjoapbggo
u.qd roau5	RqaoouMazjofuRqaodxc
u.qd roau6	MdcjoapbggouQdgg
u.qd roau7	RqouCrd gorzfcuziuVoaab bruQzsco
u.qd roau8	IbacruAo zaruziuXakuNdrczf
u.qd roau9	RqouGbtqrus zfurqouVzzau[Co.zfxuAo zaruziuXakuNdrczf]
u.qd roau10	Ohrad.ruiazvurqouXbdayuziuXakuNdrczf
u.qd roau11	RqouVdfuzfurqouRza
u.qd roau12	XodrquzfurqouVzza
u.qd roau13	IbhbfturqouForc
u.qd roau14	RqouQzsfxuziurqouMdcjoapbggoc
u.qd roau15	DuAorazc o.rbzf



.qd roau1k

VakuCqoagz.juQzgvoc

uuuuuuVakuCqoagz.juQzgvoc,unqzundcuscsdggyupoayugdroubfurqouvzafbftc,
uuuuuucdpous zfurqzcoufzrubfiaoesofruz..dcbzfcunqofuqoundcus udgg
uuuuuufbtqr,undcucodroxudrurqoumaodjidcrurdmgokuBucrzzxus zfurqo
uuuuuuqodarq-astudfxu b.joxus urqoucrb.junqb.quzsaupbcbrzauqdxugoir
uuuuuumoqbfxuqbvurqoufbtqrumoizaokuBrundcuduibfo,urqb.ju bo.ouziunzzx,
uuuuuumsgmzsc-qodxox,uziurqouczarunqb.qubcujfznfudcudu“ ofdftugdnyoak”
uuuuuuWscrusfxoaurqouqodxundcudumazdxucbgpoaumdfxufodagyudfubf.q
uuuuuud.azccku“RzuWdvocuVzarbvoa,uVkAk.kCk,uiazvuqbcuiabofxcuziurqo
uuuuuu.k.kQk,”undcuoftadpoxus zfubr,unbrqurqouxdrou“1884k”uBrundcuwscr
uuuuuucs.quducrb.judcurqouzgx-idcqbzfoxuidvbgyu ad.rbrbzfoauscoxurz
uuuuuu.daay—xbtfbibox,uczgbx,udfxuaodccsabftk

uuuuuu“Nogg,uNdrczf,unqdruxzuyzsuvdjouziubr?”

uuuuuuQzgvocundcucbrrbftunbrquqbcumd.jurzuvo,udfxuBuqdxutbpofuqbvufz
uuuuuucbtfuziuvyuz..s drbzfk

uuuuuu“QznuxbxuyzsujfznunqdruBundcuxzbft?uBumogbopouyzsuqdpouoyocubf
uuuuuurqoumd.juziuyzsauqodxk”

uuuuuu“Buqdpo,udrugodcr,udunogg- zgbcqox,ucbgpoa- gdroxu.ziioo- zrubf
uuuuuuiazfruziuvo,”ucdbxuqoku“Msr,urogguvo,uNdrczf,unqdruxzuyzsuvdjouzi
uuuuuuzsaupbcbrza’cucrb.j?uCbf.ounouqdpoumoofuczusfizarsfdroudcurzuvbcc
uuuuuuqbvudfxuqdpoufzufzrbzfuziuqbcuoaadfx,urqbcud..bxofrdguczspofba
uuuuuumo.zvocuziubv zardf.okuGoruvouqodauyzsuao.zfcras.rurqouvdfumyudf
uuuuuuohdvbfdrbzfuziubrk”

uuuuuu“Burqbfj,”ucdbxuB,uizggznbftudcuidaudcuBu.zsgxurqouvorqzxcuziuvy
uuuuuu.zv dfbzf,u“rqdruXakuVzarbvoaubcuducs..occisg,uogxoagyuvoxb.dg
uuuuuuvdf,unogg-ocroovoxucbf.ourqzcounqzujfznuqbvutbpouqbvurqbcuvdajuzi
uuuuuurqobaud  ao.bdrbzfk”

uuuuuu“Tzzx!”ucdbxuQzgvocku“Oh.oggofr!”

uuuuuu“Burqbfjudgczurqdrurqou azmdmbgbryubcubfuidpzsauziuqbcumobftud
uuuuuu.zsfrayu ad.rbrbzfoaunqzuxzocudutaodruxodguziuqbcupbcbrbftuzf
uuuuuuizzrk”

uuuuuu“Nqyucz?”

uuuuuu“Mo.dscourqbcucrb.j,urqzstquzabtbfdggyudupoayuqdfxczvouzfouqdc
uuuuuumoofuczujfz.joxudmzsrurqdruBu.dfuqdaxgyubvdtbfoudurznf
uuuuuu ad.rbrbzfoau.daaybftubrkuRqourqb.j-bazfuioaasgoubcunzafuxznf,ucz
uuuuuubrubcuopbxofrurqdruqouqdcuxzfoudutaodrudvzsfruziundgjbftunbrq
uuuuuubrk”

uuuuuu“ oaio.rgyuczsfx!”ucdbxuQzgvock

uuuuuu“Dfxurqofudtdbf,urqoaoubcurqou‘iabofxcuziurqou.k.kQk’uBucqzsgx
uuuuuutsoccurqdrurzumourqouCzvorqbftuQsfr,urqougz.dguqsfrurzunqzco
uuuuuuvovmoacuqouqdcu zccbmgyutbpofuczvoucsatb.dgudccbcrdf.o,udfxunqb.q
uuuuuuqdcuvdxouqbvuducvdggu aocofrdrbzfubfuaorsafk”

uuuuuu“Aodggy,uNdrczf,uyzsuoh.oguyzsacogi,”ucdbxuQzgvoc,u scqbftumd.j
uuuuuuqbcu.qdbaudfxugbtqrbftudu.btdaorroku“Budvumzsfxurzucdyurqdrubf
uuuuuudggurqoud..zsfrcunqb.quyzsuqdpoumoofuczutzzxudcurzutbpouziuvyuznf
uuuuuucvdggud.qbopovofrcuyzsuqdpouqdmbrsdggyusfxoaadroxuyzsauznf
uuuuuudmbgbrbockuBruvdyumourqdruyzsudaoufzruyzsacogiugsvbfzsc,umsruyzs
uuuuuudaoudu.zfxs.rzauziugbtqrkuCzvou oz gounbrqzsru zccoccbftutofbsc
uuuuuuqdpouduaovdajdmgou znoauziucrbvsgdrbftubrkuBu.zfiocc,uvyuxoda
uuuuuuioggzn,urqdruBudvupoayuvs.qubfuyzsauxomrk”

uuuuuuQouqdxufopoaucdbxudcuvs.qumoizao,udfxuBuvscrudxvbrurqdruqbcunzaxc
uuuuuutdpouvoujoofu godcsao,uizauBuqdxuzirofumoofu besoxumyuqbc
uuuuuubfxbiioaof.ourzuvyudxvbadrbzfudfxurzurqoudrrov rcunqb.quBuqdx
uuuuuuvdxourzutbpou smgb.bryurzuqbcuvorqzxckuBundcu azsx,urzz,urzurqbfj
uuuuuurqdruBuqdxuczuidauvdcroaoxuqbcucycrovudcurzud  gyubrubfudundy
uuuuuunqb.quodafoxuqbcud  azpdgkuQoufznurzzjurqoucrb.juiazvuvyuqdfxc
uuuuuudfxuohdvbfoxubruizauduionuvbfsrocunbrquqbcufdjoxuoyockuRqofunbrq
uuuuuudfuoh aoccbzfuziubfroaocruqougdbxuxznfuqbcu.btdaorro,udfx
uuuuuu.daaybfturqou.dfourzurqounbfxzn,uqougzzjoxuzpoaubrudtdbfunbrqud
uuuuuu.zfpohugofck

uuuuuu“Bfroaocrbft,urqzstquogovofrday,”ucdbxuqoudcuqouaorsafoxurzuqbc
uuuuuuidpzsabrou.zafoauziurqoucorrooku“Rqoaoudaou.oardbfgyuzfouzaurnz
uuuuuubfxb.drbzfcus zfurqoucrb.jkuBrutbpocuscurqoumdcbcuizaucopoadg
uuuuuuxoxs.rbzfck”

uuuuuu“Qdcudfyrqbftuoc.d oxuvo?”uBudcjoxunbrquczvoucogi-bv zardf.oku“B
uuuuuurascrurqdrurqoaoubcufzrqbftuziu.zfcoesof.ounqb.quBuqdpo
uuuuuuzpoagzzjox?”

uuuuuu“Budvudiadbx,uvyuxodauNdrczf,urqdruvzcruziuyzsau.zf.gscbzfcunoao
uuuuuuoaazfozsckuNqofuBucdbxurqdruyzsucrbvsgdroxuvouBuvodfr,urzumo
uuuuuuiadfj,urqdrubfufzrbftuyzsauidggd.bocuBundcuz..dcbzfdggyutsbxox
uuuuuurzndaxcurqourasrqkuFzrurqdruyzsudaouofrbaogyunazftubfurqbc
uuuuuubfcrdf.okuRqouvdfubcu.oardbfgyudu.zsfrayu ad.rbrbzfoakuDfxuqo
uuuuuundgjcudutzzxuxodgk”

uuuuuu“RqofuBundcuabtqrk”

uuuuuu“Rzurqdruohrofrk”

uuuuuu“Msrurqdrundcudggk”

uuuuuu“Fz,ufz,uvyuxodauNdrczf,ufzrudgg—myufzuvodfcudggkuBunzsgx
uuuuuucsttocr,uizauohdv go,urqdrudu aocofrdrbzfurzuduxz.rzaubcuvzao
uuuuuugbjogyurzu.zvouiazvuduqzc brdgurqdfuiazvuduqsfr,udfxurqdrunqof
uuuuuurqoubfbrbdgcu‘.k.k’udaou gd.oxumoizaourqdruqzc brdgurqounzaxc
uuuuuu‘.qdabftu.azcc’upoayufdrsadggyucsttocrurqovcogpock”

uuuuuu“Yzsuvdyumouabtqrk”

uuuuuu“Rqou azmdmbgbryugbocubfurqdruxbao.rbzfkuDfxubiunourdjourqbcudcud
uuuuuunzajbftuqy zrqocbcunouqdpouduiaocqumdcbcuiazvunqb.qurzucrdaruzsa
uuuuuu.zfcras.rbzfuziurqbcusfjfznfupbcbrzak”

uuuuuu“Nogg,urqof,ucs  zcbfturqdru‘.k.kQk’uxzocucrdfxuizau‘.qdabft
uuuuuu.azccuQzc brdg,’unqdruisarqoaubfioaof.ocuvdyunouxadn?”

uuuuuu“Xzufzfoucsttocrurqovcogpoc?uYzsujfznuvyuvorqzxckuD  gyurqov!”

uuuuuu“Bu.dfuzfgyurqbfjuziurqouzmpbzscu.zf.gscbzfurqdrurqouvdfuqdc
uuuuuu ad.rbcoxubfurznfumoizaoutzbfturzurqou.zsfrayk”

uuuuuu“BurqbfjurqdrunouvbtqrupofrsaoudugbrrgouidarqoaurqdfurqbckuGzzj
uuuuuudrubrubfurqbcugbtqrkuZfunqdruz..dcbzfunzsgxubrumouvzcru azmdmgo
uuuuuurqdrucs.qudu aocofrdrbzfunzsgxumouvdxo?uNqofunzsgxuqbcuiabofxc
uuuuuusfbrourzutbpouqbvudu goxtouziurqobautzzxunbgg?uZmpbzscgyudrurqo
uuuuuuvzvofrunqofuXakuVzarbvoaunbrqxaonuiazvurqoucoapb.ouziurqo
uuuuuuqzc brdgubfuzaxoaurzucrdarudu ad.rb.ouizauqbvcogikuNoujfznurqoao
uuuuuuqdcumoofudu aocofrdrbzfkuNoumogbopourqoaouqdcumoofudu.qdftouiazv
uuuuuudurznfuqzc brdgurzudu.zsfrayu ad.rb.okuBcubr,urqof,ucraor.qbft
uuuuuuzsaubfioaof.ourzzuidaurzucdyurqdrurqou aocofrdrbzfundcuzfurqo
uuuuuuz..dcbzfuziurqou.qdfto?”

uuuuuu“Bru.oardbfgyucoovcu azmdmgok”

uuuuuu“Fzn,uyzsunbgguzmcoapourqdruqou.zsgxufzruqdpoumoofuzfurqou_crdii_
uuuuuuziurqouqzc brdg,ucbf.ouzfgyuduvdfunogg-ocrdmgbcqoxubfuduGzfxzf
uuuuuu ad.rb.ou.zsgxuqzgxucs.qudu zcbrbzf,udfxucs.quduzfounzsgxufzr
uuuuuuxabirubfrzurqou.zsfraykuNqdrundcuqo,urqof?uBiuqoundcubfurqo
uuuuuuqzc brdgudfxuyorufzruzfurqoucrdiiuqou.zsgxuzfgyuqdpoumoofud
uuuuuuqzsco-csatozfuzauduqzsco- qycb.bdf—gbrrgouvzaourqdfuducofbza
uuuuuucrsxofrkuDfxuqougoiruibpouyodacudtz—rqouxdroubcuzfurqoucrb.jkuCz
uuuuuuyzsautadpo,uvbxxgo-dtoxuidvbgyu ad.rbrbzfoaupdfbcqocubfrzurqbf
uuuuuudba,uvyuxodauNdrczf,udfxurqoaouovoatocuduyzsftuioggznusfxoa
uuuuuurqbary,udvbdmgo,usfdvmbrbzsc,udmcofr-vbfxox,udfxurqou zccocczauzi
uuuuuuduidpzsabrouxzt,unqb.quBucqzsgxuxoc.abmouazstqgyudcumobftugdatoa
uuuuuurqdfuduroaaboaudfxucvdggoaurqdfuduvdcrbiik”

uuuuuuBugdstqoxubf.aoxsgzscgyudcuCqoagz.juQzgvocugodfoxumd.jubfuqbc
uuuuuucorrooudfxumgonugbrrgoundpoabftuabftcuziucvzjous urzurqou.obgbftk

uuuuuu“Dcurzurqougdrroau dar,uBuqdpoufzuvodfcuziu.qo.jbftuyzs,”ucdbxuB,
uuuuuu“msrudrugodcrubrubcufzruxbiib.sgrurzuibfxuzsruduionu darb.sgdac
uuuuuudmzsrurqouvdf’cudtoudfxu azioccbzfdgu.daooak”uIazvuvyucvdgg
uuuuuuvoxb.dgucqogiuBurzzjuxznfurqouVoxb.dguXbao.rzayudfxursafoxus urqo
uuuuuufdvokuRqoaounoaoucopoadguVzarbvoac,umsruzfgyuzfounqzu.zsgxumouzsa
uuuuuupbcbrzakuBuaodxuqbcuao.zaxudgzsxk

uuuuuuuu“Vzarbvoa,uWdvoc,uVkAk.kCk,u1882,uTabv of,uXdarvzza,uXopzfk
uuuuuuuuQzsco-csatozf,uiazvu1882urzu1884,udru.qdabftu.azccuQzc brdgk
uuuuuuuuNbffoauziurqouWd.jczfu ablouizau.zv dadrbpou drqzgzty,unbrq
uuuuuuuuoccdyuofrbrgoxu‘BcuXbcodcouduAopoacbzf?’uu.zaaoc zfxbftuvovmoa
uuuuuuuuziurqouCnoxbcqu drqzgztb.dguCz.borykuuDsrqzauziu‘CzvouIaodjcuzi
uuuuuuuuDrdpbcv’u(_Gdf.or_u1882)kuu‘XzuNou aztaocc?’u(_Wzsafdguzi
uuuuuuuu cy.qzgzty_,uVda.q,u1883)kuVoxb.dguZiib.oauizaurqou dabcqocuzi
uuuuuuuuTabv of,uRqzacgoy,udfxuQbtquMdaaznk”

uuuuuu“Fzuvofrbzfuziurqdrugz.dguqsfr,uNdrczf,”ucdbxuQzgvocunbrqud
uuuuuuvbc.qbopzscucvbgo,u“msrudu.zsfrayuxz.rza,udcuyzsupoayudcrsrogy
uuuuuuzmcoapoxkuBurqbfjurqdruBudvuidbagyuwscrbiboxubfuvyubfioaof.ockuDc
uuuuuurzurqoudxwo.rbpoc,uBucdbx,ubiuBuaovovmoauabtqr,udvbdmgo,
uuuuuusfdvmbrbzsc,udfxudmcofr-vbfxoxkuBrubcuvyuoh oabof.ourqdrubrubc
uuuuuuzfgyudfudvbdmgouvdfubfurqbcunzagxunqzuao.obpocurocrbvzfbdgc,uzfgy
uuuuuudfusfdvmbrbzscuzfounqzudmdfxzfcuduGzfxzfu.daooauizaurqou.zsfray,
uuuuuudfxuzfgyudfudmcofr-vbfxoxuzfounqzugodpocuqbcucrb.judfxufzruqbc
uuuuuupbcbrbft-.daxudiroaundbrbftudfuqzsaubfuyzsauazzvk”

uuuuuu“Dfxurqouxzt?”

uuuuuu“Qdcumoofubfurqouqdmbruziu.daaybfturqbcucrb.jumoqbfxuqbcuvdcroak
uuuuuuMobftuduqodpyucrb.jurqouxztuqdcuqogxubrurbtqrgyumyurqouvbxxgo,
uuuuuudfxurqouvdajcuziuqbcuroorqudaoupoayu gdbfgyupbcbmgokuRqouxzt’c
uuuuuuwdn,udcucqznfubfurqouc d.oumornoofurqocouvdajc,ubcurzzumazdxubf
uuuuuuvyuz bfbzfuizauduroaaboaudfxufzrumazdxuofzstquizauduvdcrbiikuBr
uuuuuuvdyuqdpoumoof—yoc,umyuWzpo,ubru_bc_udu.sagy-qdbaoxuc dfbogk”

uuuuuuQouqdxuabcofudfxu d.oxurqouazzvudcuqouc zjokuFznuqouqdgroxubfurqo
uuuuuuao.occuziurqounbfxznkuRqoaoundcucs.quduabftuziu.zfpb.rbzfubfuqbc
uuuuuupzb.ourqdruButgdf.oxus ubfucsa abcok

uuuuuu“Vyuxodauioggzn,uqznu.dfuyzsu zccbmgyumouczucsaouziurqdr?”

uuuuuu“Izaurqoupoayucbv gouaodczfurqdruBucoourqouxztuqbvcogiuzfuzsa
uuuuuupoayuxzza-cro ,udfxurqoaoubcurqouabftuziubrcuznfoakuXzf’ruvzpo,uB
uuuuuumotuyzs,uNdrczfkuQoubcudu azioccbzfdgumazrqoauziuyzsac,udfxuyzsa
uuuuuu aocof.ouvdyumouziudccbcrdf.ourzuvokuFznubcurqouxadvdrb.uvzvofr
uuuuuuziuidro,uNdrczf,unqofuyzsuqodauducro us zfurqoucrdbaunqb.qubc
uuuuuundgjbftubfrzuyzsaugbio,udfxuyzsujfznufzrunqorqoauizautzzxuzaubggk
uuuuuuNqdruxzocuXakuWdvocuVzarbvoa,urqouvdfuziuc.bof.o,udcjuziuCqoagz.j
uuuuuuQzgvoc,urqouc o.bdgbcrubfu.abvo?u.zvoubf!”

uuuuuuRqoud  odadf.ouziuzsaupbcbrzaundcuducsa abcourzuvo,ucbf.ouBuqdx
uuuuuuoh o.roxudury b.dgu.zsfrayu ad.rbrbzfoakuQoundcudupoayurdgg,urqbf
uuuuuuvdf,unbrqudugzftufzcougbjoudumodj,unqb.quwsrroxuzsrumornoofurnz
uuuuuujoof,utaoyuoyoc,ucoru.gzcogyurztorqoaudfxuc dajgbftumabtqrgyuiazv
uuuuuumoqbfxudu dbauziutzgx-abvvoxutgdccockuQoundcu.gdxubfud
uuuuuu azioccbzfdgumsruadrqoaucgzpofgyuidcqbzf,uizauqbcuiaz.j-.zdrundc
uuuuuuxbftyudfxuqbcurazscoacuiadyoxkuRqzstquyzsft,uqbcugzftumd.jundc
uuuuuudgaodxyumznox,udfxuqoundgjoxunbrquduizandaxurqascruziuqbcuqodx
uuuuuudfxudutofoadgudbauziu ooabftumofopzgof.okuDcuqouofroaoxuqbcuoyoc
uuuuuuioggus zfurqoucrb.jubfuQzgvoc’cuqdfx,udfxuqouadfurzndaxcubrunbrq
uuuuuudfuoh.gdvdrbzfuziuwzyku“Budvuczupoayutgdx,”ucdbxuqoku“Bundcufzr
uuuuuucsaounqorqoauBuqdxugoirubruqoaouzaubfurqouCqb  bftuZiib.okuB
uuuuuunzsgxufzrugzcourqdrucrb.juizaurqounzagxk”

uuuuuu“Du aocofrdrbzf,uBucoo,”ucdbxuQzgvock

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucbak”

uuuuuu“Iazvu.qdabftu.azccuQzc brdg?”

uuuuuu“Iazvuzfouzaurnzuiabofxcurqoaouzfurqouz..dcbzfuziuvyuvdaabdtok”

uuuuuu“Xoda,uxoda,urqdr’cumdx!”ucdbxuQzgvoc,ucqdjbftuqbcuqodxk

uuuuuuXakuVzarbvoaumgbfjoxurqazstquqbcutgdccocubfuvbgxudcrzfbcqvofrk
uuuuuu“Nqyundcubrumdx?”

uuuuuu“Zfgyurqdruyzsuqdpouxbcdaadftoxuzsaugbrrgouxoxs.rbzfckuYzsa
uuuuuuvdaabdto,uyzsucdy?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucbakuBuvdaabox,udfxuczugoirurqouqzc brdg,udfxunbrqubrudgg
uuuuuuqz ocuziudu.zfcsgrbftu ad.rb.okuBrundcufo.occdayurzuvdjouduqzvo
uuuuuuziuvyuznfk”

uuuuuu“.zvo,u.zvo,unoudaoufzruczuidaunazft,udiroaudgg,”ucdbxuQzgvock
uuuuuu“Dfxufzn,uXakuWdvocuVzarbvoa—”

uuuuuu“Vbcroa,ucba,uVbcroa—duqsvmgouVkAk.kCk”

uuuuuu“Dfxuduvdfuziu ao.bcouvbfx,uopbxofrgyk”

uuuuuu“Duxdmmgoaubfuc.bof.o,uVakuQzgvoc,udu b.joaus uziucqoggcuzfurqo
uuuuuucqzaocuziurqoutaodrusfjfznfuz.odfkuBu aocsvourqdrubrubcuVak
uuuuuuCqoagz.juQzgvocunqzvuBudvudxxaoccbftudfxufzr—”

uuuuuu“Fz,urqbcubcuvyuiabofxuXakuNdrczfk”

uuuuuu“Tgdxurzuvooruyzs,ucbakuBuqdpouqodaxuyzsaufdvouvofrbzfoxubf
uuuuuu.zffo.rbzfunbrqurqdruziuyzsauiabofxkuYzsubfroaocruvoupoayuvs.q,
uuuuuuVakuQzgvockuBuqdxuqdaxgyuoh o.roxuczuxzgb.qz.o qdgb.uducjsgguza
uuuuuucs.qunogg-vdajoxucs ad-zambrdguxopogz vofrkuNzsgxuyzsuqdpoudfy
uuuuuuzmwo.rbzfurzuvyuasffbftuvyuibftoaudgzftuyzsau dabordguibccsao?uD
uuuuuu.dcruziuyzsaucjsgg,ucba,usfrbgurqouzabtbfdgubcudpdbgdmgo,unzsgx
uuuuuumoudfuzafdvofrurzudfyudfrqaz zgztb.dguvscosvkuBrubcufzruvy
uuuuuubfrofrbzfurzumouisgczvo,umsruBu.zfioccurqdruBu.zporuyzsaucjsggk”

uuuuuuCqoagz.juQzgvocundpoxuzsaucradftoupbcbrzaubfrzudu.qdbaku“Yzsudao
uuuuuudfuofrqscbdcrubfuyzsaugbfouziurqzstqr,uBu oa.obpo,ucba,udcuBudv
uuuuuubfuvbfo,”ucdbxuqoku“Buzmcoapouiazvuyzsauizaoibftoaurqdruyzsuvdjo
uuuuuuyzsauznfu.btdaorrockuQdpoufzuqocbrdrbzfubfugbtqrbftuzfok”

uuuuuuRqouvdfuxaonuzsru d oaudfxurzmd..zudfxurnbagoxurqouzfous ubfurqo
uuuuuuzrqoaunbrqucsa abcbftuxohroabrykuQouqdxugzft,uesbpoabftuibftoac
uuuuuudcudtbgoudfxuaocrgoccudcurqoudfroffæuziudfubfco.rk

uuuuuuQzgvocundcucbgofr,umsruqbcugbrrgouxdarbftutgdf.ocucqznoxuvourqo
uuuuuubfroaocrunqb.quqourzzjubfuzsau.sabzscu.zv dfbzfku“Bu aocsvo,
uuuuuucba,”ucdbxuqoudrugdcr,u“rqdrubrundcufzruvoaogyuizaurqou sa zcouzi
uuuuuuohdvbfbftuvyucjsggurqdruyzsuqdpouxzfouvourqouqzfzsaurzu.dgguqoao
uuuuuugdcrufbtqrudfxudtdbfurzxdy?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ucba,ufz;urqzstquBudvuqd  yurzuqdpouqdxurqouz  zarsfbryuzi
uuuuuuxzbfturqdrudcunoggkuBu.dvourzuyzs,uVakuQzgvoc,umo.dscouB
uuuuuuao.ztfbloxurqdruBudvuvycogiudfusf ad.rb.dguvdfudfxumo.dscouBudv
uuuuuucsxxofgyu.zfiazfroxunbrquduvzcrucoabzscudfxuohradzaxbfday
uuuuuu azmgovkuAo.ztfblbft,udcuBuxz,urqdruyzsudaourqouco.zfxuqbtqocr
uuuuuuoh oarubfuOsaz o—”

uuuuuu“Bfxoox,ucba!uVdyuBubfesbaounqzuqdcurqouqzfzsaurzumourqouibacr?”
uuuuuudcjoxuQzgvocunbrquczvoudc oabryk

uuuuuu“Rzurqouvdfuziu ao.bcogyuc.bofrbib.uvbfxurqounzajuziuVzfcbosa
uuuuuuMoarbggzfuvscrudgndycud  odgucrazftgyk”

uuuuuu“Rqofuqdxuyzsufzrumorroau.zfcsgruqbv?”

uuuuuu“Bucdbx,ucba,urzurqou ao.bcogyuc.bofrbib.uvbfxkuMsrudcud
uuuuuu ad.rb.dguvdfuziudiidbacubrubcud.jfzngoxtoxurqdruyzsucrdfxudgzfok
uuuuuuBurascr,ucba,urqdruBuqdpoufzrubfdxpoarofrgy—”

uuuuuu“Wscrudugbrrgo,”ucdbxuQzgvocku“Burqbfj,uXakuVzarbvoa,uyzsunzsgx
uuuuuuxzunbcogyubiunbrqzsruvzaoudxzuyzsunzsgxujbfxgyurogguvou gdbfgy
uuuuuunqdrurqouohd.rufdrsaouziurqou azmgovubcubfunqb.quyzsuxovdfxuvy
uuuuuudccbcrdf.ok”



.qd roau2k

Rqou.sacouziurqouMdcjoapbggoc

uuuuuu“Buqdpoubfuvyu z.joruduvdfsc.ab r,”ucdbxuXakuWdvocuVzarbvoak

uuuuuu“Buzmcoapoxubrudcuyzsuofroaoxurqouazzv,”ucdbxuQzgvock

uuuuuu“Brubcudfuzgxuvdfsc.ab rk”

uuuuuu“Odagyuobtqroofrqu.ofrsay,usfgoccubrubcuduizatoayk”

uuuuuu“Qznu.dfuyzsucdyurqdr,ucba?”

uuuuuu“Yzsuqdpou aocofroxudfubf.quzaurnzuziubrurzuvyuohdvbfdrbzfudgg
uuuuuurqourbvourqdruyzsuqdpoumoofurdgjbftkuBrunzsgxumoudu zzauoh oar
uuuuuunqzu.zsgxufzrutbpourqouxdrouziuduxz.svofrunbrqbfuduxo.dxouzauczk
uuuuuuYzsuvdyu zccbmgyuqdpouaodxuvyugbrrgouvzfztad qus zfurqoucsmwo.rk
uuuuuuBu srurqdrudru1730k”

uuuuuu“Rqouohd.ruxdroubcu1742k”uXakuVzarbvoauxaonubruiazvuqbc
uuuuuumaodcr- z.jorku“Rqbcuidvbgyu d oaundcu.zvvbrroxurzuvyu.daoumyuCba
uuuuuu.qdagocuMdcjoapbggo,unqzcoucsxxofudfxuradtb.uxodrquczvourqaoo
uuuuuuvzfrqcudtzu.aodroxuczuvs.quoh.brovofrubfuXopzfcqbaokuBuvdyucdy
uuuuuurqdruBundcuqbcu oaczfdguiabofxudcunoggudcuqbcuvoxb.dgudrrofxdfrk
uuuuuuQoundcuducrazft-vbfxoxuvdf,ucba,ucqaonx,u ad.rb.dg,udfxudc
uuuuuusfbvdtbfdrbpoudcuBudvuvycogikuYoruqourzzjurqbcuxz.svofrupoay
uuuuuucoabzscgy,udfxuqbcuvbfxundcu ao daoxuizauwscrucs.qudfuofxudcuxbx
uuuuuuopofrsdggyuzpoardjouqbvk”

uuuuuuQzgvocucraor.qoxuzsruqbcuqdfxuizaurqouvdfsc.ab rudfxuigdrrofoxubr
uuuuuus zfuqbcujfooku“Yzsunbgguzmcoapo,uNdrczf,urqoudgroafdrbpouscouzi
uuuuuurqougzftu_c_udfxurqoucqzarkuBrubcuzfouziucopoadgubfxb.drbzfc
uuuuuunqb.quofdmgoxuvourzuibhurqouxdrok”

uuuuuuBugzzjoxuzpoauqbcucqzsgxoaudrurqouyoggznu d oaudfxurqouidxox
uuuuuuc.ab rkuDrurqouqodxundcunabrrof:u“MdcjoapbggouQdgg,”udfxumogznubf
uuuuuugdato,uc.adngbftuibtsaoc:u“1742k”

uuuuuu“Brud  odacurzumouducrdrovofruziuczvouczark”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ubrubcuducrdrovofruziudu.oardbfugotofxunqb.quasfcubfurqo
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggouidvbgyk”

uuuuuu“MsruBusfxoacrdfxurqdrubrubcuczvorqbftuvzaouvzxoafudfxu ad.rb.dg
uuuuuus zfunqb.quyzsunbcqurzu.zfcsgruvo?”

uuuuuu“VzcruvzxoafkuDuvzcru ad.rb.dg,u aoccbftuvdrroa,unqb.quvscrumo
uuuuuuxo.bxoxunbrqbfurnofry-izsauqzsackuMsrurqouvdfsc.ab rubcucqzarudfx
uuuuuubcubfrbvdrogyu.zffo.roxunbrqurqoudiidbakuNbrquyzsau oavbccbzfuB
uuuuuunbgguaodxubrurzuyzsk”

uuuuuuQzgvocugodfoxumd.jubfuqbcu.qdba,u gd.oxuqbcuibftoa-rb curztorqoa,
uuuuuudfxu.gzcoxuqbcuoyoc,unbrqudfudbauziuaocbtfdrbzfkuXakuVzarbvoa
uuuuuursafoxurqouvdfsc.ab rurzurqougbtqrudfxuaodxubfuduqbtq,u.ad.jbft
uuuuuupzb.ourqouizggznbftu.sabzsc,uzgx-nzagxufdaadrbpo:

uuuuuuuu“ZiurqouzabtbfuziurqouQzsfxuziurqouMdcjoapbggocurqoaouqdpoumoof
uuuuuuuuvdfyucrdrovofrc,uyorudcuBu.zvoubfuduxbao.rugbfouiazvuQstz
uuuuuuuuMdcjoapbggo,udfxudcuBuqdxurqoucrzayuiazvuvyuidrqoa,unqzudgcz
uuuuuuuuqdxubruiazvuqbc,uBuqdpoucorubruxznfunbrqudggumogboiurqdrubr
uuuuuuuuz..saaoxuopofudcubcuqoaoucoruizarqkuDfxuBunzsgxuqdpouyzs
uuuuuuuumogbopo,uvyuczfc,urqdrurqoucdvouWscrb.ounqb.qu sfbcqocucbfuvdy
uuuuuuuudgczuvzcrutad.bzscgyuizatbpoubr,udfxurqdrufzumdfubcuczuqodpy
uuuuuuuumsrurqdrumyu adyoaudfxuao ofrdf.oubruvdyumouaovzpoxkuuGodaf
uuuuuuuurqofuiazvurqbcucrzayufzrurzuiodaurqouiasbrcuziurqou dcr,umsr
uuuuuuuuadrqoaurzumou.ba.svc o.rubfurqouisrsao,urqdrurqzcouizsg
uuuuuuuu dccbzfcunqoaomyuzsauidvbgyuqdcucsiioaoxuczutabopzscgyuvdyufzr
uuuuuuuudtdbfumougzzcoxurzuzsausfxzbftk

uuuuuuuuuuuu“JfznurqofurqdrubfurqourbvouziurqouTaodruAomoggbzfu(rqo
uuuuuuuuuuuuqbcrzayuziunqb.qumyurqougodafoxuGzaxu.gdaofxzfuBuvzcr
uuuuuuuuuuuuodafocrgyu.zvvofxurzuyzsaudrrofrbzf)urqbcuVdfzauzi
uuuuuuuuuuuuMdcjoapbggoundcuqogxumyuQstzuziurqdrufdvo,ufzau.dfubrumo
uuuuuuuuuuuutdbfcdbxurqdruqoundcuduvzcrunbgx,u azidfo,udfxutzxgoccuvdfk
uuuuuuuuuuuuuRqbc,ubfurasrq,uqbcufobtqmzsacuvbtqruqdpou daxzfox,ucoobft
uuuuuuuuuuuurqdrucdbfrcuqdpoufopoauigzsabcqoxubfurqzcou darc,umsrurqoao
uuuuuuuuuuuundcubfuqbvudu.oardbfundfrzfudfxu.asoguqsvzsaunqb.quvdxouqbc
uuuuuuuuuuuufdvoudumy-nzaxurqazstqurqouNocrkuuBru.qdf.oxurqdrurqbcuQstz
uuuuuuuuuuuu.dvourzugzpou(bi,ubfxoox,uczuxdajudu dccbzfuvdyumoujfznf
uuuuuuuuuuuusfxoauczumabtqrudufdvo)urqouxdstqroauziuduyozvdfunqzuqogx
uuuuuuuuuuuugdfxcufodaurqouMdcjoapbggouocrdrokuMsrurqouyzsftuvdbxof,
uuuuuuuuuuuumobftuxbc.aoorudfxuziutzzxuao sro,unzsgxuopoaudpzbxuqbv,
uuuuuuuuuuuuizaucqouiodaoxuqbcuopbgufdvokuuCzubru.dvourzu dccurqdruzfo
uuuuuuuuuuuuVb.qdogvdcurqbcuQstz,unbrquibpouzaucbhuziuqbcubxgoudfx
uuuuuuuuuuuunb.joxu.zv dfbzfc,ucrzgouxznfus zfurqouidavudfxu.daaboxuzii
uuuuuuuuuuuurqouvdbxof,uqoauidrqoaudfxumazrqoacumobftuiazvuqzvo,udcuqo
uuuuuuuuuuuunoggujfonkuuNqofurqoyuqdxumazstqruqoaurzurqouQdggurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuuvdbxofundcu gd.oxubfudfus  oau.qdvmoa,unqbgouQstzudfxuqbc
uuuuuuuuuuuuiabofxcucdruxznfurzudugzftu.dazsco,udcundcurqobaufbtqrgy
uuuuuuuuuuuu.scrzvkuuFzn,urqou zzaugdccus crdbacundcugbjourzuqdpouqoa
uuuuuuuuuuuunbrcursafoxudrurqoucbftbftudfxucqzsrbftudfxuroaabmgouzdrqc
uuuuuuuuuuuunqb.qu.dvous urzuqoauiazvumogzn,uizaurqoyucdyurqdrurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuunzaxcuscoxumyuQstzuMdcjoapbggo,unqofuqoundcubfunbfo,unoao
uuuuuuuuuuuucs.qudcuvbtqrumgdcrurqouvdfunqzucdbxurqovkuuDrugdcrubfurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuucraoccuziuqoauiodaucqouxbxurqdrunqb.quvbtqruqdpouxdsfrox
uuuuuuuuuuuurqoumadpocruzauvzcrud.rbpouvdf,uizaumyurqoudbxuziurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuutaznrquziubpyunqb.qu.zpoaoxu(dfxucrbggu.zpoac)urqouczsrq
uuuuuuuuuuuundggucqou.dvouxznfuiazvusfxoaurqouodpoc,udfxuczuqzvondax
uuuuuuuuuuuud.azccurqouvzza,urqoaoumobfturqaoougodtsocumornbhrurqouQdgg
uuuuuuuuuuuudfxuqoauidrqoa’cuidavk

uuuuuuuuuuuu“Bru.qdf.oxurqdruczvougbrrgourbvougdroauQstzugoiruqbc
uuuuuuuuuuuutsocrcurzu.daayuizzxudfxuxabfj—nbrquzrqoaunzacourqbftc,
uuuuuuuuuuuu oa.qdf.o—rzuqbcu.d rbpo,udfxuczuizsfxurqou.dtouov ryudfx
uuuuuuuuuuuurqoumbaxuoc.d oxkuuRqof,udcubrunzsgxucoov,uqoumo.dvoudcuzfo
uuuuuuuuuuuurqdruqdrquduxopbg,uiza,uascqbftuxznfurqoucrdbacubfrzurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuuxbfbft-qdgg,uqouc adftus zfurqoutaodrurdmgo,uigdtzfcudfx
uuuuuuuuuuuuraof.qoacuigybftumoizaouqbv,udfxuqou.aboxudgzsxumoizaoudgg
uuuuuuuuuuuurqou.zv dfyurqdruqounzsgxurqdrupoayufbtqruaofxoauqbcumzxy
uuuuuuuuuuuudfxuczsgurzurqou znoacuziuOpbgubiuqouvbtqrumsruzpoardjourqo
uuuuuuuuuuuunof.qkuuDfxunqbgourqouaopoggoacucrzzxudtqdcrudrurqouisayuzi
uuuuuuuuuuuurqouvdf,uzfouvzaounb.joxuza,ubruvdyumo,uvzaouxasfjofurqdf
uuuuuuuuuuuurqouaocr,u.aboxuzsrurqdrurqoyucqzsgxu srurqouqzsfxcus zf
uuuuuuuuuuuuqoakuuNqoaodruQstzuadfuiazvurqouqzsco,u.aybfturzuqbcutazzvc
uuuuuuuuuuuurqdrurqoyucqzsgxucdxxgouqbcuvdaoudfxusfjoffogurqou d.j,udfx
uuuuuuuuuuuutbpbfturqouqzsfxcudujoa.qboiuziurqouvdbx’c,uqoucnsfturqov
uuuuuuuuuuuurzurqougbfo,udfxuczuziiuisggu.ayubfurqouvzzfgbtqruzpoaurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuuvzzak

uuuuuuuuuuuu“Fzn,uizauczvouc d.ourqouaopoggoacucrzzxudtd o,usfdmgourz
uuuuuuuuuuuusfxoacrdfxudggurqdruqdxumoofuxzfoubfucs.quqdcrokuuMsrudfzf
uuuuuuuuuuuurqobaumovscoxunbrcudnzjourzurqoufdrsaouziurqouxooxunqb.q
uuuuuuuuuuuundcugbjourzumouxzfous zfurqouvzzagdfxckuuOpoayrqbftundcufzn
uuuuuuuuuuuubfudfus azda,uczvou.dggbftuizaurqobau bcrzgc,uczvouiza
uuuuuuuuuuuurqobauqzacoc,udfxuczvouizaudfzrqoauigdcjuziunbfokuuMsrudr
uuuuuuuuuuuugoftrquczvoucofcou.dvoumd.jurzurqobau.adloxuvbfxc,udfxurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuunqzgouziurqov,urqbaroofubfufsvmoa,urzzjuqzacoudfxucrdarox
uuuuuuuuuuuubfu sacsbrkuuRqouvzzfucqzfou.godaudmzpourqov,udfxurqoyuazxo
uuuuuuuuuuuucnbirgyudmaodcr,urdjbfturqdru.zsacounqb.qurqouvdbxuvscr
uuuuuuuuuuuufooxcuqdpourdjofubiucqounoaourzuaod.quqoauznfuqzvok

uuuuuuuuuuuu“Rqoyuqdxutzfouduvbgouzaurnzunqofurqoyu dccoxuzfouziurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuufbtqrucqo qoaxcus zfurqouvzzagdfxc,udfxurqoyu.aboxurzuqbv
uuuuuuuuuuuurzujfznubiuqouqdxucoofurqouqsfrkuuDfxurqouvdf,udcurqoucrzay
uuuuuuuuuuuutzoc,undcuczu.adloxunbrquiodaurqdruqou.zsgxuc.da.ouc odj,
uuuuuuuuuuuumsrudrugdcruqoucdbxurqdruqouqdxubfxooxucoofurqousfqd  y
uuuuuuuuuuuuvdbxof,unbrqurqouqzsfxcus zfuqoaurad.jkuu‘MsruBuqdpoucoof
uuuuuuuuuuuuvzaourqdfurqdr,’ucdbxuqo,u‘izauQstzuMdcjoapbggou dccoxuvo
uuuuuuuuuuuus zfuqbcumgd.juvdao,udfxurqoaouadfuvsroumoqbfxuqbvucs.qud
uuuuuuuuuuuuqzsfxuziuqoggudcuTzxuizambxucqzsgxuopoaumoudruvyuqoogck’u
uuuuuuuuuuuuCzurqouxasfjofucesbaocu.sacoxurqoucqo qoaxudfxuazxouzfndaxk
uuuuuuuuuuuuuMsruczzfurqobaucjbfcursafoxu.zgx,uizaurqoaou.dvoud
uuuuuuuuuuuutdggz bftud.azccurqouvzza,udfxurqoumgd.juvdao,uxdmmgoxunbrq
uuuuuuuuuuuunqbrouiazrq,unofru dcrunbrquradbgbftumabxgoudfxuov ry
uuuuuuuuuuuucdxxgokuuRqofurqouaopoggoacuazxou.gzcourztorqoa,uizaud
uuuuuuuuuuuutaodruiodaundcuzfurqov,umsrurqoyucrbgguizggznoxuzpoaurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuuvzza,urqzstquod.q,uqdxuqoumoofudgzfo,unzsgxuqdpoumoofuabtqr
uuuuuuuuuuuutgdxurzuqdpoursafoxuqbcuqzaco’cuqodxkuuAbxbftucgzngyubf
uuuuuuuuuuuurqbcuidcqbzfurqoyu.dvoudrugdcrus zfurqouqzsfxckuuRqoco,
uuuuuuuuuuuurqzstqujfznfuizaurqobaupdgzsaudfxurqobaumaoox,unoao
uuuuuuuuuuuunqbv oabftubfudu.gscroaudrurqouqodxuziuduxoo uxb uzautzydg,
uuuuuuuuuuuudcunou.dggubr,us zfurqouvzza,uczvoucgbfjbftudndyudfxuczvo,
uuuuuuuuuuuunbrqucrdarbftuqd.jgocudfxucrdabftuoyoc,utdlbftuxznfurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuufdaaznupdggoyumoizaourqovk

uuuuuuuuuuuu“Rqou.zv dfyuqdxu.zvourzuduqdgr,uvzaouczmoauvof,udcuyzsuvdy
uuuuuuuuuuuutsocc,urqdfunqofurqoyucrdaroxkuuRqouvzcruziurqovunzsgxumy
uuuuuuuuuuuufzuvodfcudxpdf.o,umsrurqaoouziurqov,urqoumzgxocr,uzaubruvdy
uuuuuuuuuuuumourqouvzcruxasfjof,uazxouizandaxuxznfurqoutzydgkuFzn,ubr
uuuuuuuuuuuuz ofoxubfrzudumazdxuc d.oubfunqb.qucrzzxurnzuziurqzcoutaodr
uuuuuuuuuuuucrzfoc,ucrbggurzumoucoofurqoao,unqb.qunoaoucorumyu.oardbf
uuuuuuuuuuuuizatzrrofu oz gocubfurqouxdycuziuzgxkuRqouvzzfundcucqbfbft
uuuuuuuuuuuumabtqrus zfurqou.godabft,udfxurqoaoubfurqou.ofraougdyurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuusfqd  yuvdbxunqoaoucqouqdxuidggof,uxodxuziuiodaudfxuzi
uuuuuuuuuuuuidrbtsokuuMsrubrundcufzrurqoucbtqruziuqoaumzxy,ufzauyorundc
uuuuuuuuuuuubrurqdruziurqoumzxyuziuQstzuMdcjoapbggougybftufodauqoa,
uuuuuuuuuuuunqb.quadbcoxurqouqdbaus zfurqouqodxcuziurqocourqaoo
uuuuuuuuuuuuxdao-xopbguazycroaoac,umsrubrundcurqdr,ucrdfxbftuzpoauQstz,
uuuuuuuuuuuudfxu gs.jbftudruqbcurqazdr,urqoaoucrzzxuduizsgurqbft,ud
uuuuuuuuuuuutaodr,umgd.jumodcr,ucqd oxugbjouduqzsfx,uyorugdatoaurqdf
uuuuuuuuuuuudfyuqzsfxurqdruopoauvzardguoyouqdcuaocroxus zfkuuDfxuopof
uuuuuuuuuuuudcurqoyugzzjoxurqourqbfturzaourqourqazdruzsruziuQstz
uuuuuuuuuuuuMdcjoapbggo,uzfunqb.q,udcubrursafoxubrcumgdlbftuoyocudfx
uuuuuuuuuuuuxab  bftuwdncus zfurqov,urqourqaooucqabojoxunbrquiodaudfx
uuuuuuuuuuuuazxouizauxodaugbio,ucrbgguc.aodvbft,ud.azccurqouvzzakuuZfo,
uuuuuuuuuuuubrubcucdbx,uxboxurqdrupoayufbtqruziunqdruqouqdxucoof,udfx
uuuuuuuuuuuurqouzrqoaurndbfunoaoumsrumazjofuvofuizaurqouaocruziurqoba
uuuuuuuuuuuuxdyck

uuuuuuuuuuuu“Cs.qubcurqourdgo,uvyuczfc,uziurqou.zvbftuziurqouqzsfx
uuuuuuuuuuuunqb.qubcucdbxurzuqdpou gdtsoxurqouidvbgyuczuczaogyuopoa
uuuuuuuuuuuucbf.okuuBiuBuqdpoucorubruxznfubrubcumo.dscourqdrunqb.qubc
uuuuuuuuuuuu.godagyujfznfuqdrqugoccuroaazaurqdfurqdrunqb.qubcumsr
uuuuuuuuuuuuqbfroxudrudfxutsoccoxkuuFzau.dfubrumouxofboxurqdruvdfyuzi
uuuuuuuuuuuurqouidvbgyuqdpoumoofusfqd  yubfurqobauxodrqc,unqb.quqdpo
uuuuuuuuuuuumoofucsxxof,umgzzxy,udfxuvycroabzsckuuYoruvdyunoucqogroa
uuuuuuuuuuuuzsacogpocubfurqoubfibfbroutzzxfoccuziu azpbxof.o,unqb.q
uuuuuuuuuuuunzsgxufzruizaopoau sfbcqurqoubffz.ofrumoyzfxurqdrurqbaxuza
uuuuuuuuuuuuizsarqutofoadrbzfunqb.qubcurqaodrofoxubfuQzgyuNabrkuuRz
uuuuuuuuuuuurqdru azpbxof.o,uvyuczfc,uBuqoaomyu.zvvofxuyzs,udfxuB
uuuuuuuuuuuu.zsfcoguyzsumyundyuziu.dsrbzfurzuizamodauiazvu.azccbfturqo
uuuuuuuuuuuuvzzaubfurqzcouxdajuqzsacunqofurqou znoacuziuopbgudao
uuuuuuuuuuuuohdgroxk

uuuuuuuuuuuu“[RqbcuiazvuQstzuMdcjoapbggourzuqbcuczfcuAzxtoaudfxuWzqf,
uuuuuuuuuuuunbrqubfcras.rbzfcurqdrurqoyucdyufzrqbfturqoaoziurzurqoba
uuuuuuuuuuuucbcroauOgbldmorqk]”

uuuuuuNqofuXakuVzarbvoauqdxuibfbcqoxuaodxbfturqbcucbftsgdaufdaadrbpouqo
uuuuuu scqoxuqbcuc o.rd.gocus uzfuqbcuizaoqodxudfxucrdaoxud.azccudruVak
uuuuuuCqoagz.juQzgvockuRqougdrroauydnfoxudfxurzccoxurqouofxuziuqbc
uuuuuu.btdaorroubfrzurqouibaok

uuuuuu“Nogg?”ucdbxuqok

uuuuuu“Xzuyzsufzruibfxubrubfroaocrbft?”

uuuuuu“Rzudu.zggo.rzauziuidbayurdgock”

uuuuuuXakuVzarbvoauxaonuduizgxoxufonc d oauzsruziuqbcu z.jork

uuuuuu“Fzn,uVakuQzgvoc,unounbggutbpouyzsuczvorqbftudugbrrgouvzao
uuuuuuao.ofrkuRqbcubcurqou_Xopzfu.zsfryu.qazfb.go_uziuVdyu14rquziurqbc
uuuuuuyodakuBrubcuducqzarud..zsfruziurqouid.rcuogb.broxudrurqouxodrquzi
uuuuuuCbau.qdagocuMdcjoapbggounqb.quz..saaoxuduionuxdycumoizaourqdr
uuuuuuxdrok”

uuuuuuVyuiabofxugodfoxudugbrrgouizandaxudfxuqbcuoh aoccbzfumo.dvo
uuuuuubfrofrkuZsaupbcbrzauaodxwscroxuqbcutgdccocudfxumotdf:

uuuuuuuu“Rqouao.ofrucsxxofuxodrquziuCbau.qdagocuMdcjoapbggo,unqzcoufdvo
uuuuuuuuqdcumoofuvofrbzfoxudcurqou azmdmgouGbmoadgu.dfxbxdrouiza
uuuuuuuuVbx-Xopzfudrurqoufohruogo.rbzf,uqdcu.dcrudutgzzvuzpoaurqo
uuuuuuuu.zsfrykuuRqzstquCbau.qdagocuqdxuaocbxoxudruMdcjoapbggouQdgguiza
uuuuuuuudu.zv dadrbpogyucqzaru oabzxuqbcudvbdmbgbryuziu.qdad.roaudfx
uuuuuuuuohraovoutofoazcbryuqdxunzfurqoudiio.rbzfudfxuaoc o.ruziudggunqz
uuuuuuuuqdxumoofumazstqrubfrzu.zfrd.runbrquqbvkuuBfurqocouxdycuzi
uuuuuuuu_fzspodshuab.qoc_ubrubcuaoiaocqbfturzuibfxudu.dcounqoaourqo
uuuuuuuuc.bzfuziudfuzgxu.zsfryuidvbgyunqb.quqdcuidggofus zfuopbguxdyc
uuuuuuuubcudmgourzuvdjouqbcuznfuizarsfoudfxurzumabftubrumd.junbrquqbv
uuuuuuuurzuaocrzaourqouidggofutadfxosauziuqbcugbfokuuCbau.qdagoc,udcubc
uuuuuuuunoggujfznf,uvdxougdatoucsvcuziuvzfoyubfuCzsrquDiab.df
uuuuuuuuc o.sgdrbzfkuVzaounbcourqdfurqzcounqzutzuzfusfrbgurqounqoog
uuuuuuuursafcudtdbfcrurqov,uqouaodgbcoxuqbcutdbfcudfxuaorsafoxurz
uuuuuuuuOftgdfxunbrqurqovkuuBrubcuzfgyurnzuyodacucbf.ouqourzzjus uqbc
uuuuuuuuaocbxof.oudruMdcjoapbggouQdgg,udfxubrubcu.zvvzfurdgjuqznugdato
uuuuuuuunoaourqzcouc.qovocuziuao.zfcras.rbzfudfxubv azpovofrunqb.quqdpo
uuuuuuuumoofubfroaas roxumyuqbcuxodrqkuuMobftuqbvcogiu.qbgxgocc,ubrundc
uuuuuuuuqbcuz ofgyuoh aoccoxuxocbaourqdrurqounqzgou.zsfraycbxoucqzsgx,
uuuuuuuunbrqbfuqbcuznfugbiorbvo,u azibrumyuqbcutzzxuizarsfo,udfxuvdfy
uuuuuuuunbgguqdpou oaczfdguaodczfcuizaumondbgbftuqbcusfrbvogyuofxkuuQbc
uuuuuuuutofoazscuxzfdrbzfcurzugz.dgudfxu.zsfryu.qdabrbocuqdpoumoof
uuuuuuuuiaoesofrgyu.qazfb.goxubfurqocou.zgsvfck

uuuuuuuuuuuu“Rqou.ba.svcrdf.ocu.zffo.roxunbrqurqouxodrquziuCbau.qdagoc
uuuuuuuuuuuu.dffzrumoucdbxurzuqdpoumoofuofrbaogyu.godaoxus umyurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuubfesocr,umsrudrugodcruofzstquqdcumoofuxzfourzuxbc zcouzi
uuuuuuuuuuuurqzcouasvzsacurzunqb.qugz.dgucs oacrbrbzfuqdcutbpofuabcok
uuuuuuuuuuuuRqoaoubcufzuaodczfunqdropoaurzucsc o.ruizsgu gdy,uzaurz
uuuuuuuuuuuubvdtbfourqdruxodrqu.zsgxumouiazvudfyumsrufdrsadgu.dscock
uuuuuuuuuuuuCbau.qdagocundcudunbxznoa,udfxuduvdfunqzuvdyumoucdbxurz
uuuuuuuuuuuuqdpoumoofubfuczvoundycuziudfuo..ofrab.uqdmbruziuvbfxkuBf
uuuuuuuuuuuuc brouziuqbcu.zfcbxoadmgounodgrquqoundcucbv goubfuqbc
uuuuuuuuuuuu oaczfdgurdcroc,udfxuqbcubfxzzaucoapdfrcudruMdcjoapbggo
uuuuuuuuuuuuQdggu.zfcbcroxuziuduvdaaboxu.zs goufdvoxuMdaayvzao,urqo
uuuuuuuuuuuuqscmdfxud.rbftudcumsrgoaudfxurqounbioudcuqzscojoo oakuRqoba
uuuuuuuuuuuuopbxof.o,u.zaazmzadroxumyurqdruziucopoadguiabofxc,urofxcurz
uuuuuuuuuuuucqznurqdruCbau.qdagoc’cuqodgrquqdcuizauczvourbvoumoof
uuuuuuuuuuuubv dbaox,udfxu zbfrcuoc o.bdggyurzuczvoudiio.rbzfuziurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuuqodar,uvdfbiocrbftubrcogiubfu.qdftocuziu.zgzsa,
uuuuuuuuuuuumaodrqgoccfocc,udfxud.sroudrrd.jcuziufoapzscuxo aoccbzfk
uuuuuuuuuuuuXakuWdvocuVzarbvoa,urqouiabofxudfxuvoxb.dgudrrofxdfruziurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuuxo.odcox,uqdcutbpofuopbxof.ourzurqoucdvouoiio.rk

uuuuuuuuuuuu“Rqouid.rcuziurqou.dcoudaoucbv gokuuCbau.qdagocuMdcjoapbggo
uuuuuuuuuuuundcubfurqouqdmbruopoayufbtqrumoizaoutzbfturzumoxuziundgjbft
uuuuuuuuuuuuxznfurqouidvzscuyonudggoyuziuMdcjoapbggouQdggkuuRqo
uuuuuuuuuuuuopbxof.ouziurqouMdaayvzaocucqzncurqdrurqbcuqdxumoofuqbc
uuuuuuuuuuuu.scrzvkuZfurqouizsarquziuVdyuCbau.qdagocuqdxuxo.gdaoxuqbc
uuuuuuuuuuuubfrofrbzfuziucrdarbftufohruxdyuizauGzfxzf,udfxuqdxuzaxoaox
uuuuuuuuuuuuMdaayvzaourzu ao daouqbcugsttdtokuuRqdrufbtqruqounofruzsr
uuuuuuuuuuuudcuscsdguizauqbcufz.rsafdgundgj,ubfurqou.zsacouziunqb.quqo
uuuuuuuuuuuundcubfurqouqdmbruziucvzjbftudu.btdakuuQoufopoauaorsafoxku
uuuuuuuuuuuuDrurnogpouz’.gz.juMdaayvzao,uibfxbfturqouqdgguxzzaucrbgg
uuuuuuuuuuuuz of,umo.dvoudgdavox,udfx,ugbtqrbftudugdfroaf,unofrubf
uuuuuuuuuuuucoda.quziuqbcuvdcroakuuRqouxdyuqdxumoofunor,udfxuCba
uuuuuuuuuuuu.qdagoc’cuizzrvdajcunoaouodcbgyurad.oxuxznfurqoudggoyku
uuuuuuuuuuuuQdgindyuxznfurqbcundgjurqoaoubcudutdrounqb.qugodxcuzsruzf
uuuuuuuuuuuurzurqouvzzakuRqoaounoaoubfxb.drbzfcurqdruCbau.qdagocuqdx
uuuuuuuuuuuucrzzxuizauczvougbrrgourbvouqoaokuuQourqofu az.ooxoxuxznf
uuuuuuuuuuuurqoudggoy,udfxubrundcudrurqouidauofxuziubrurqdruqbcumzxy
uuuuuuuuuuuundcuxbc.zpoaoxkuZfouid.runqb.quqdcufzrumoofuoh gdbfoxubc
uuuuuuuuuuuurqoucrdrovofruziuMdaayvzaourqdruqbcuvdcroa’cuizzr abfrc
uuuuuuuuuuuudgroaoxurqobau.qdad.roauiazvurqourbvourqdruqou dccoxurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuuvzza-tdro,udfxurqdruqoud  odaoxuiazvurqof.ouzfndaxurzuqdpo
uuuuuuuuuuuumoofundgjbftus zfuqbcurzockuuZfouVsa qy,udutb cy
uuuuuuuuuuuuqzaco-xodgoa,undcuzfurqouvzzaudrufzutaodruxbcrdf.oudrurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuurbvo,umsruqoud  odacumyuqbcuznfu.zfioccbzfurzuqdpoumoofurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuunzacouizauxabfjkuQouxo.gdaocurqdruqouqodaxu.abocumsrubc
uuuuuuuuuuuusfdmgourzucrdrouiazvunqdruxbao.rbzfurqoyu.dvokuuFzucbtfcuzi
uuuuuuuuuuuupbzgof.ounoaourzumouxbc.zpoaoxus zfuCbau.qdagoc’cu oaczf,
uuuuuuuuuuuudfxurqzstqurqouxz.rza’cuopbxof.ou zbfroxurzudfudgvzcr
uuuuuuuuuuuubf.aoxbmgouid.bdguxbcrzarbzf—czutaodrurqdruXakuVzarbvoa
uuuuuuuuuuuuaoiscoxudruibacrurzumogbopourqdrubrundcubfxooxuqbcuiabofx
uuuuuuuuuuuudfxu drbofrunqzugdyumoizaouqbv—brundcuoh gdbfoxurqdrurqdr
uuuuuuuuuuuubcuducyv rzvunqb.qubcufzrusfscsdgubfu.dcocuziuxyc fœdudfx
uuuuuuuuuuuuxodrquiazvu.daxbd.uohqdscrbzfkuuRqbcuoh gdfdrbzfundcumzafo
uuuuuuuuuuuuzsrumyurqou zcr-vzarovuohdvbfdrbzf,unqb.qucqznox
uuuuuuuuuuuugzft-crdfxbftuzatdfb.uxbcodco,udfxurqou.zazfoa’cuwsay
uuuuuuuuuuuuaorsafoxudupoaxb.rubfud..zaxdf.ounbrqurqouvoxb.dguopbxof.ok
uuuuuuuuuuuuuBrubcunoggurqdrurqbcubcucz,uizaubrubcuzmpbzscgyuziurqo
uuuuuuuuuuuusrvzcrubv zardf.ourqdruCbau.qdagoc’cuqobaucqzsgxucorrgoudr
uuuuuuuuuuuurqouQdggudfxu.zfrbfsourqoutzzxunzajunqb.quqdcumoofuczucdxgy
uuuuuuuuuuuubfroaas roxkuuQdxurqou azcdb.uibfxbftuziurqou.zazfoaufzr
uuuuuuuuuuuuibfdggyu srudfuofxurzurqouazvdfrb.ucrzabocunqb.quqdpoumoof
uuuuuuuuuuuunqbc oaoxubfu.zffo.rbzfunbrqurqoudiidba,ubruvbtqruqdpoumoof
uuuuuuuuuuuuxbiib.sgrurzuibfxudurofdfruizauMdcjoapbggouQdggkuuBrubc
uuuuuuuuuuuusfxoacrzzxurqdrurqoufohruziujbfubcuVakuQofayuMdcjoapbggo,
uuuuuuuuuuuubiuqoumoucrbggudgbpo,urqouczfuziuCbau.qdagocuMdcjoapbggo’c
uuuuuuuuuuuuyzsftoaumazrqoakuuRqouyzsftuvdfunqofugdcruqodaxuziundcubf
uuuuuuuuuuuuDvoab.d,udfxubfesbabocudaoumobftubfcrbrsroxunbrqudupbonurz
uuuuuuuuuuuubfizavbftuqbvuziuqbcutzzxuizarsfok”

uuuuuuXakuVzarbvoauaoizgxoxuqbcu d oaudfxuao gd.oxubrubfuqbcu z.jork
uuuuuu“Rqzcoudaourqou smgb.uid.rc,uVakuQzgvoc,ubfu.zffo.rbzfunbrqurqo
uuuuuuxodrquziuCbau.qdagocuMdcjoapbggok”

uuuuuu“Buvscrurqdfjuyzs,”ucdbxuCqoagz.juQzgvoc,u“izau.dggbftuvy
uuuuuudrrofrbzfurzudu.dcounqb.qu.oardbfgyu aocofrcuczvouiodrsaocuzi
uuuuuubfroaocrkuBuqdxuzmcoapoxuczvoufonc d oau.zvvofrudrurqourbvo,umsr
uuuuuuBundcuoh.ooxbftgyu aoz..s boxumyurqdrugbrrgoudiidbauziurqo
uuuuuuPdrb.dfu.dvozc,udfxubfuvyudfhboryurzuzmgbtourqou z ouBugzcrurzs.q
uuuuuunbrqucopoadgubfroaocrbftuOftgbcqu.dcockuRqbcudarb.go,uyzsucdy,
uuuuuu.zfrdbfcudggurqou smgb.uid.rc?”

uuuuuu“Bruxzock”

uuuuuu“Rqofugoruvouqdpourqou abpdrouzfock”uQougodfoxumd.j,u sruqbc
uuuuuuibftoa-rb curztorqoa,udfxudccsvoxuqbcuvzcrubv dccbpoudfxuwsxb.bdg
uuuuuuoh aoccbzfk

uuuuuu“Bfuxzbftucz,”ucdbxuXakuVzarbvoa,unqzuqdxumotsfurzucqznucbtfcuzi
uuuuuuczvoucrazftuovzrbzf,u“Budvuroggbfturqdrunqb.quBuqdpoufzru.zfibxox
uuuuuurzudfyzfokuVyuvzrbpouizaunbrqqzgxbftubruiazvurqou.zazfoa’c
uuuuuubfesbayubcurqdruduvdfuziuc.bof.oucqabfjcuiazvu gd.bftuqbvcogiubf
uuuuuurqou smgb.u zcbrbzfuziucoovbfturzubfxzacoudu z sgdaucs oacrbrbzfk
uuuuuuBuqdxurqouisarqoauvzrbpourqdruMdcjoapbggouQdgg,udcurqou d oa
uuuuuucdyc,unzsgxu.oardbfgyuaovdbfusfrofdfroxubiudfyrqbftunoaouxzfourz
uuuuuubf.aodcoubrcudgaodxyuadrqoautabvuao srdrbzfkuIzaumzrqurqoco
uuuuuuaodczfcuBurqzstqrurqdruBundcuwscrbiboxubfuroggbftuadrqoaugocc
uuuuuurqdfuBujfon,ucbf.oufzu ad.rb.dgutzzxu.zsgxuaocsgruiazvubr,umsr
uuuuuunbrquyzsurqoaoubcufzuaodczfunqyuBucqzsgxufzrumou oaio.rgyuiadfjk

uuuuuu“Rqouvzzaubcupoayuc dacogyubfqdmbrox,udfxurqzcounqzugbpoufoda
uuuuuuod.quzrqoaudaourqaznfupoayuvs.qurztorqoakuIzaurqbcuaodczfuBucdnud
uuuuuutzzxuxodguziuCbau.qdagocuMdcjoapbggokuNbrqurqouoh.o rbzfuziuVak
uuuuuuIadfjgdfx,uziuGdiroauQdgg,udfxuVakuCrd gorzf,urqoufdrsadgbcr,
uuuuuurqoaoudaoufzuzrqoauvofuziuoxs.drbzfunbrqbfuvdfyuvbgockuCba
uuuuuu.qdagocundcuduaorbabftuvdf,umsrurqou.qdf.ouziuqbcubggfoccumazstqr
uuuuuuscurztorqoa,udfxudu.zvvsfbryuziubfroaocrcubfuc.bof.oujo ruscuczk
uuuuuuQouqdxumazstqrumd.juvs.quc.bofrbib.ubfizavdrbzfuiazvuCzsrq
uuuuuuDiab.d,udfxuvdfyudu.qdavbftuopofbftunouqdpouc ofrurztorqoa
uuuuuuxbc.sccbfturqou.zv dadrbpoudfdrzvyuziurqouMscqvdfudfxurqo
uuuuuuQzrrofrzrk

uuuuuu“Nbrqbfurqougdcruionuvzfrqcubrumo.dvoubf.aodcbftgyu gdbfurzuvo
uuuuuurqdruCbau.qdagoc’cufoapzscucycrovundcucradbfoxurzurqoumaodjbft
uuuuuu zbfrkuQouqdxurdjofurqbcugotofxunqb.quBuqdpouaodxuyzsuoh.ooxbftgy
uuuuuurzuqodar—czuvs.quczurqdr,udgrqzstquqounzsgxundgjubfuqbcuznf
uuuuuutazsfxc,ufzrqbftunzsgxubfxs.ouqbvurzutzuzsrus zfurqouvzzaudr
uuuuuufbtqrkuBf.aoxbmgoudcubruvdyud  odaurzuyzs,uVakuQzgvoc,uqoundc
uuuuuuqzfocrgyu.zfpbf.oxurqdruduxaodxisguidrouzpoaqsftuqbcuidvbgy,udfx
uuuuuu.oardbfgyurqouao.zaxcunqb.quqoundcudmgourzutbpouziuqbcudf.ocrzac
uuuuuunoaoufzruof.zsadtbftkuRqoubxoduziuczvoutqdcrgyu aocof.o
uuuuuu.zfcrdfrgyuqdsfroxuqbv,udfxuzfuvzaourqdfuzfouz..dcbzfuqouqdc
uuuuuudcjoxuvounqorqoauBuqdxuzfuvyuvoxb.dguwzsafoycudrufbtqruopoaucoof
uuuuuudfyucradftou.aodrsaouzauqodaxurqoumdybftuziuduqzsfxkuRqougdrroa
uuuuuuesocrbzfuqou srurzuvoucopoadgurbvoc,udfxudgndycunbrqudupzb.o
uuuuuunqb.qupbmadroxunbrquoh.brovofrk

uuuuuu“Bu.dfunogguaovovmoauxabpbftus urzuqbcuqzscoubfurqouopofbftuczvo
uuuuuurqaoounoojcumoizaourqouidrdguopofrkuQou.qdf.oxurzumoudruqbcuqdgg
uuuuuuxzzakuBuqdxuxoc.ofxoxuiazvuvyutbtudfxundcucrdfxbftubfuiazfruzi
uuuuuuqbv,unqofuBucdnuqbcuoyocuibhurqovcogpocuzpoauvyucqzsgxoaudfx
uuuuuucrdaou dcruvounbrqudfuoh aoccbzfuziurqouvzcruxaodxisguqzaazakuB
uuuuuunqbcjoxuazsfxudfxuqdxuwscrurbvourzu.dr.qudutgbv couziuczvorqbft
uuuuuunqb.quBurzzjurzumoudugdatoumgd.ju.dgiu dccbftudrurqouqodxuziurqo
uuuuuuxabpokuCzuoh.broxudfxudgdavoxundcuqourqdruBundcu.zv oggoxurzutz
uuuuuuxznfurzurqouc zrunqoaourqoudfbvdguqdxumoofudfxugzzjudazsfxuiza
uuuuuubrkuBrundcutzfo,uqznopoa,udfxurqoubf.bxofrud  odaoxurzuvdjourqo
uuuuuunzacrubv aoccbzfus zfuqbcuvbfxkuBucrdyoxunbrquqbvudggurqo
uuuuuuopofbft,udfxubrundcuzfurqdruz..dcbzf,urzuoh gdbfurqouovzrbzf
uuuuuunqb.quqouqdxucqznf,urqdruqou.zfibxoxurzuvyujoo bfturqdrufdaadrbpo
uuuuuunqb.quBuaodxurzuyzsunqofuibacruBu.dvokuBuvofrbzfurqbcucvdgg
uuuuuuo bczxoumo.dscoubrudccsvocuczvoubv zardf.oubfupbonuziurqouradtoxy
uuuuuunqb.quizggznox,umsruBundcu.zfpbf.oxudrurqourbvourqdrurqouvdrroa
uuuuuundcuofrbaogyurabpbdgudfxurqdruqbcuoh.brovofruqdxufz
uuuuuuwscrbib.drbzfk

uuuuuu“Brundcudruvyudxpb.ourqdruCbau.qdagocundcudmzsrurzutzurzuGzfxzfk
uuuuuuQbcuqodarundc,uBujfon,udiio.rox,udfxurqou.zfcrdfrudfhboryubf
uuuuuunqb.quqougbpox,uqznopoau.qbvoab.dgurqou.dscouziubruvbtqrumo,undc
uuuuuuopbxofrgyuqdpbftuducoabzscuoiio.rus zfuqbcuqodgrqkuBurqzstqrurqdr
uuuuuuduionuvzfrqcudvzfturqouxbcrad.rbzfcuziurznfunzsgxucofxuqbvumd.jud
uuuuuufonuvdfkuVakuCrd gorzf,uduvsrsdguiabofxunqzundcuvs.qu.zf.oafoxudr
uuuuuuqbcucrdrouziuqodgrq,undcuziurqoucdvouz bfbzfkuDrurqougdcrubfcrdfr
uuuuuu.dvourqbcuroaabmgou.drdcraz qok

uuuuuu“ZfurqoufbtqruziuCbau.qdagoc’cuxodrquMdaayvzaourqoumsrgoa,unqz
uuuuuuvdxourqouxbc.zpoay,ucofru oajbfcurqoutazzvuzfuqzacomd.jurzuvo,
uuuuuudfxudcuBundcucbrrbftus ugdrouBundcudmgourzuaod.quMdcjoapbggouQdgg
uuuuuunbrqbfudfuqzsauziurqouopofrkuBu.qo.joxudfxu.zaazmzadroxudggurqo
uuuuuuid.rcunqb.qunoaouvofrbzfoxudrurqoubfesocrkuBuizggznoxurqo
uuuuuuizzrcro cuxznfurqouyonudggoy,uBucdnurqouc zrudrurqouvzza-tdro
uuuuuunqoaouqoucoovoxurzuqdpoundbrox,uBuaovdajoxurqou.qdftoubfurqo
uuuuuucqd ouziurqou abfrcudiroaurqdru zbfr,uBufzroxurqdrurqoaounoaoufz
uuuuuuzrqoauizzrcro cucdpourqzcouziuMdaayvzaouzfurqouczirutadpog,udfx
uuuuuuibfdggyuBu.daoisggyuohdvbfoxurqoumzxy,unqb.quqdxufzrumoofurzs.qox
uuuuuusfrbguvyudaabpdgkuCbau.qdagocugdyuzfuqbcuid.o,uqbcudavcuzsr,uqbc
uuuuuuibftoacuxstubfrzurqoutazsfx,udfxuqbcuiodrsaocu.zfpsgcoxunbrquczvo
uuuuuucrazftuovzrbzfurzucs.qudfuohrofrurqdruBu.zsgxuqdaxgyuqdpoucnzaf
uuuuuurzuqbcubxofrbrykuRqoaoundcu.oardbfgyufzu qycb.dgubfwsayuziudfy
uuuuuujbfxkuMsruzfouidgcoucrdrovofrundcuvdxoumyuMdaayvzaoudrurqo
uuuuuubfesocrkuQoucdbxurqdrurqoaounoaoufzurad.ocus zfurqoutazsfxuazsfx
uuuuuurqoumzxykuQouxbxufzruzmcoapoudfykuMsruBuxbx—czvougbrrgouxbcrdf.o
uuuuuuzii,umsruiaocqudfxu.godak”

uuuuuu“Izzr abfrc?”

uuuuuu“Izzr abfrck”

uuuuuu“Duvdf’cuzaudunzvdf’c?”

uuuuuuXakuVzarbvoaugzzjoxucradftogyudruscuizaudfubfcrdfr,udfxuqbcupzb.o
uuuuuucdfjudgvzcrurzudunqbc oaudcuqoudfcnoaoxk

uuuuuu“VakuQzgvoc,urqoyunoaourqouizzr abfrcuziudutbtdfrb.uqzsfx!”



.qd roau3k

Rqou azmgov

uuuuuuBu.zfioccudrurqocounzaxcuducqsxxoau dccoxurqazstquvokuRqoaoundcud
uuuuuurqabggubfurqouxz.rza’cupzb.ounqb.qucqznoxurqdruqoundcuqbvcogi
uuuuuuxoo gyuvzpoxumyurqdrunqb.quqourzgxusckuQzgvocugodfoxuizandaxubf
uuuuuuqbcuoh.brovofrudfxuqbcuoyocuqdxurqouqdax,uxayutgbrroaunqb.qucqzr
uuuuuuiazvurqovunqofuqoundcujoofgyubfroaocroxk

uuuuuu“Yzsucdnurqbc?”

uuuuuu“Dcu.godagyudcuBucoouyzsk”

uuuuuu“Dfxuyzsucdbxufzrqbft?”

uuuuuu“Nqdrundcurqousco?”

uuuuuu“Qznundcubrurqdrufzuzfouogcoucdnubr?”

uuuuuu“Rqouvdajcunoaouczvournofryuydaxcuiazvurqoumzxyudfxufzuzfoutdpo
uuuuuurqovudurqzstqrkuBuxzf’rucs  zcouBucqzsgxuqdpouxzfouczuqdxuBufzr
uuuuuujfznfurqbcugotofxk”

uuuuuu“Rqoaoudaouvdfyucqoo -xztcuzfurqouvzza?”

uuuuuu“Fzuxzsmr,umsrurqbcundcufzucqoo -xztk”

uuuuuu“Yzsucdyubrundcugdato?”

uuuuuu“Ofzavzsck”

uuuuuu“Msrubruqdxufzrud  azd.qoxurqoumzxy?”

uuuuuu“Fzk”

uuuuuu“Nqdruczaruziufbtqrundcubr?’

uuuuuu“Xdv udfxuadnk”

uuuuuu“Msrufzrud.rsdggyuadbfbft?”

uuuuuu“Fzk”

uuuuuu“Nqdrubcurqoudggoyugbjo?”

uuuuuu“Rqoaoudaournzugbfocuziuzgxuyonuqoxto,urnogpouiooruqbtqudfx
uuuuuubv oforadmgokuRqoundgjubfurqou.ofraoubcudmzsruobtqruioorud.azcck”

uuuuuu“Bcurqoaoudfyrqbftumornoofurqouqoxtocudfxurqoundgj?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,urqoaoubcuducrab uziutadccudmzsrucbhuioorumazdxuzfuobrqoa
uuuuuucbxok”

uuuuuu“Busfxoacrdfxurqdrurqouyonuqoxtoubcu oforadroxudruzfou zbfrumyud
uuuuuutdro?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,urqounb.jor-tdrounqb.qugodxcuzfurzurqouvzzak”

uuuuuu“Bcurqoaoudfyuzrqoauz ofbft?”

uuuuuu“Fzfok”

uuuuuu“Czurqdrurzuaod.qurqouyonudggoyuzfouobrqoauqdcurzu.zvouxznfubr
uuuuuuiazvurqouqzscouzauogcourzuofroaubrumyurqouvzza-tdro?”

uuuuuu“Rqoaoubcudfuohbrurqazstquducsvvoa-qzscoudrurqouidauofxk”

uuuuuu“QdxuCbau.qdagocuaod.qoxurqbc?”

uuuuuu“Fz;uqougdyudmzsruibiryuydaxcuiazvubrk”

uuuuuu“Fzn,urogguvo,uXakuVzarbvoa—dfxurqbcubcubv zardfr—rqouvdajcunqb.q
uuuuuuyzsucdnunoaouzfurqou drqudfxufzruzfurqoutadcc?”

uuuuuu“Fzuvdajcu.zsgxucqznuzfurqoutadcck”

uuuuuu“Noaourqoyuzfurqoucdvoucbxouziurqou drqudcurqouvzza-tdro?”

uuuuuu“Yoc;urqoyunoaouzfurqouoxtouziurqou drquzfurqoucdvoucbxoudcurqo
uuuuuuvzza-tdrok”

uuuuuu“Yzsubfroaocruvouoh.ooxbftgykuDfzrqoau zbfrkuNdcurqounb.jor-tdro
uuuuuu.gzcox?”

uuuuuu“.gzcoxudfxu dxgz.joxk”

uuuuuu“Qznuqbtqundcubr?”

uuuuuu“Dmzsruizsauiooruqbtqk”

uuuuuu“Rqofudfyzfou.zsgxuqdpoutzruzpoaubr?”

uuuuuu“Yock”

uuuuuu“Dfxunqdruvdajcuxbxuyzsucooumyurqounb.jor-tdro?”

uuuuuu“Fzfoubfu darb.sgdak”

uuuuuu“Tzzxuqodpof!uXbxufzuzfouohdvbfo?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uBuohdvbfox,uvycogik”

uuuuuu“Dfxuizsfxufzrqbft?”

uuuuuu“Brundcudggupoayu.zfiscoxkuCbau.qdagocuqdxuopbxofrgyucrzzxurqoao
uuuuuuizauibpouzaurofuvbfsrock”

uuuuuu“Qznuxzuyzsujfznurqdr?”

uuuuuu“Mo.dscourqoudcquqdxurnb.ouxaz  oxuiazvuqbcu.btdak”

uuuuuu“Oh.oggofr!uRqbcubcudu.zggodtso,uNdrczf,udiroauzsauznfuqodarkuMsr
uuuuuurqouvdajc?”

uuuuuu“Qouqdxugoiruqbcuznfuvdajcudgguzpoaurqdrucvdggu dr.quziutadpogkuB
uuuuuu.zsgxuxbc.oafufzuzrqoack”

uuuuuuCqoagz.juQzgvocucras.juqbcuqdfxudtdbfcruqbcujfoounbrqudf
uuuuuubv drbofrutocrsaok

uuuuuu“BiuBuqdxuzfgyumoofurqoao!”uqou.aboxku“Brubcuopbxofrgyudu.dcouzi
uuuuuuohradzaxbfdayubfroaocr,udfxuzfounqb.qu aocofroxubvvofco
uuuuuuz  zarsfbrbocurzurqouc.bofrbib.uoh oarkuRqdrutadpogu dtous zf
uuuuuunqb.quBuvbtqruqdpouaodxuczuvs.quqdcumoofugzftuoaourqbcucvsxtoxumy
uuuuuurqouadbfudfxuxoid.oxumyurqou.gztcuziu.sabzscu odcdfrckuZq,uXak
uuuuuuVzarbvoa,uXakuVzarbvoa,urzurqbfjurqdruyzsucqzsgxufzruqdpou.dggox
uuuuuuvoubf!uYzsuqdpoubfxooxuvs.qurzudfcnoauizak”

uuuuuu“Bu.zsgxufzru.dgguyzsubf,uVakuQzgvoc,unbrqzsruxbc.gzcbfturqoco
uuuuuuid.rcurzurqounzagx,udfxuBuqdpoudgaodxyutbpofuvyuaodczfcuizaufzr
uuuuuunbcqbfturzuxzuczkuMocbxoc,umocbxoc—”

uuuuuu“Nqyuxzuyzsuqocbrdro?”

uuuuuu“Rqoaoubcuduaodgvubfunqb.qurqouvzcrud.sroudfxuvzcruoh oabof.oxuzi
uuuuuuxoro.rbpocubcuqog gocck”

uuuuuu“Yzsuvodfurqdrurqourqbftubcucs oafdrsadg?”

uuuuuu“Buxbxufzru zcbrbpogyucdyuczk”

uuuuuu“Fz,umsruyzsuopbxofrgyurqbfjubrk”

uuuuuu“Cbf.ourqouradtoxy,uVakuQzgvoc,urqoaouqdpou.zvourzuvyuodac
uuuuuucopoadgubf.bxofrcunqb.qudaouqdaxurzuao.zf.bgounbrqurqoucorrgox
uuuuuuzaxoauziuFdrsaok”

uuuuuu“Izauohdv go?”

uuuuuu“Buibfxurqdrumoizaourqouroaabmgouopofruz..saaoxucopoadgu oz go
uuuuuuqdxucoofudu.aodrsaous zfurqouvzzaunqb.qu.zaaoc zfxcunbrqurqbc
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggouxovzf,udfxunqb.qu.zsgxufzru zccbmgyumoudfyudfbvdg
uuuuuujfznfurzuc.bof.okuRqoyudggudtaooxurqdrubrundcuduqstou.aodrsao,
uuuuuugsvbfzsc,utqdcrgy,udfxuc o.radgkuBuqdpou.azcc-ohdvbfoxurqocouvof,
uuuuuuzfouziurqovuduqdax-qodxoxu.zsfrayvdf,uzfouduidaaboa,udfxuzfoud
uuuuuuvzzagdfxuidavoa,unqzudgguroggurqoucdvoucrzayuziurqbcuxaodxisg
uuuuuud  dabrbzf,uohd.rgyu.zaaoc zfxbfturzurqouqogg-qzsfxuziurqo
uuuuuugotofxkuBudccsaouyzsurqdrurqoaoubcuduaobtfuziuroaazaubfurqo
uuuuuuxbcrab.r,udfxurqdrubrubcuduqdaxyuvdfunqzunbggu.azccurqouvzzaudr
uuuuuufbtqrk”

uuuuuu“Dfxuyzs,uduradbfoxuvdfuziuc.bof.o,umogbopoubrurzumo
uuuuuucs oafdrsadg?”

uuuuuu“Buxzufzrujfznunqdrurzumogbopok”

uuuuuuQzgvocucqasttoxuqbcucqzsgxoacku“Buqdpouqbrqoarzu.zfibfoxuvy
uuuuuubfpocrbtdrbzfcurzurqbcunzagx,”ucdbxuqoku“BfuduvzxocrundyuBuqdpo
uuuuuu.zvmdroxuopbg,umsrurzurdjouzfurqouIdrqoauziuOpbguqbvcogiunzsgx,
uuuuuu oaqd c,umourzzudvmbrbzscudurdcjkuYoruyzsuvscrudxvbrurqdrurqo
uuuuuuizzrvdajubcuvdroabdgk”

uuuuuu“Rqouzabtbfdguqzsfxundcuvdroabdguofzstqurzurstuduvdf’curqazdr
uuuuuuzsr,udfxuyoruqoundcuxbdmzgb.dgudcunoggk”

uuuuuu“Bucoourqdruyzsuqdpouesbroutzfouzpoaurzurqoucs oafdrsadgbcrckuMsr
uuuuuufzn,uXakuVzarbvoa,urogguvourqbckuBiuyzsuqzgxurqocoupbonc,unqy
uuuuuuqdpouyzsu.zvourzu.zfcsgruvoudrudgg?uYzsurogguvoubfurqoucdvo
uuuuuumaodrqurqdrubrubcuscogoccurzubfpocrbtdrouCbau.qdagoc’cuxodrq,udfx
uuuuuurqdruyzsuxocbaouvourzuxzubrk”

uuuuuu“BuxbxufzrucdyurqdruBuxocbaoxuyzsurzuxzubrk”

uuuuuu“Rqof,uqznu.dfuBudccbcruyzs?”

uuuuuu“MyudxpbcbftuvoudcurzunqdruBucqzsgxuxzunbrquCbauQofay
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggo,unqzudaabpocudruNdroagzzuCrdrbzf”—XakuVzarbvoaugzzjox
uuuuuudruqbcundr.q—“bfuohd.rgyuzfouqzsaudfxuduesdaroak”

uuuuuu“Qoumobfturqouqoba?”

uuuuuu“YockuZfurqouxodrquziuCbau.qdagocunoubfesbaoxuizaurqbcuyzsft
uuuuuutofrgovdfudfxuizsfxurqdruqouqdxumoofuidavbftubfu.dfdxdkuIazvurqo
uuuuuud..zsfrcunqb.quqdpouaod.qoxuscuqoubcudfuoh.oggofruioggznubfuopoay
uuuuuundykuBuc odjufznufzrudcuduvoxb.dguvdfumsrudcudurascrooudfx
uuuuuuoho.srzauziuCbau.qdagoc’cunbggk”

uuuuuu“Rqoaoubcufzuzrqoau.gdbvdfr,uBu aocsvo?”

uuuuuu“FzfokuRqouzfgyuzrqoaujbfcvdfunqzvunouqdpoumoofudmgourzurad.oundc
uuuuuuAzxtoauMdcjoapbggo,urqouyzsftocruziurqaooumazrqoacuziunqzvu zza
uuuuuuCbau.qdagocundcurqouogxoakuRqouco.zfxumazrqoa,unqzuxboxuyzsft,ubc
uuuuuurqouidrqoauziurqbcugdxuQofaykuRqourqbax,uAzxtoa,undcurqoumgd.j
uuuuuucqoo uziurqouidvbgykuQou.dvouziurqouzgxuvdcroaisguMdcjoapbggo
uuuuuucradbfudfxundcurqoupoayubvdto,urqoyurogguvo,uziurqouidvbgy
uuuuuu b.rsaouziuzgxuQstzkuQouvdxouOftgdfxurzzuqzrurzuqzgxuqbv,uigoxurz
uuuuuu.ofradguDvoab.d,udfxuxboxurqoaoubfu1876uziuyoggznuiopoakuQofayubc
uuuuuurqougdcruziurqouMdcjoapbggockuBfuzfouqzsaudfxuibpouvbfsrocuBuvoor
uuuuuuqbvudruNdroagzzuCrdrbzfkuBuqdpouqdxudunbaourqdruqoudaabpoxudr
uuuuuuCzsrqdv rzfurqbcuvzafbftkuFzn,uVakuQzgvoc,unqdrunzsgxuyzsudxpbco
uuuuuuvourzuxzunbrquqbv?”

uuuuuu“Nqyucqzsgxuqoufzrutzurzurqouqzvouziuqbcuidrqoac?”

uuuuuu“Brucoovcufdrsadg,uxzocubrufzr?uDfxuyor,u.zfcbxoaurqdruopoay
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggounqzutzocurqoaouvoorcunbrqudfuopbguidrokuBuioogucsao
uuuuuurqdrubiuCbau.qdagocu.zsgxuqdpouc zjofunbrquvoumoizaouqbcuxodrquqo
uuuuuunzsgxuqdpoundafoxuvoudtdbfcrumabftbfturqbc,urqougdcruziurqouzgx
uuuuuuad.o,udfxurqouqobaurzutaodrunodgrq,urzurqdruxodxgyu gd.okuDfxuyor
uuuuuubru.dffzrumouxofboxurqdrurqou azc oabryuziurqounqzgou zza,umgodj
uuuuuu.zsfraycbxouxo ofxcus zfuqbcu aocof.okuDggurqoutzzxunzajunqb.q
uuuuuuqdcumoofuxzfoumyuCbau.qdagocunbggu.adcqurzurqoutazsfxubiurqoaoubc
uuuuuufzurofdfruziurqouQdggkuBuiodaugocruBucqzsgxumoucndyoxurzzuvs.qumy
uuuuuuvyuznfuzmpbzscubfroaocrubfurqouvdrroa,udfxurqdrubcunqyuBumabft
uuuuuurqou.dcoumoizaouyzsudfxudcjuizauyzsaudxpb.ok”

uuuuuuQzgvocu.zfcbxoaoxuizaudugbrrgourbvok

uuuuuu“ srubfrzu gdbfunzaxc,urqouvdrroaubcurqbc,”ucdbxuqoku“Bfuyzsa
uuuuuuz bfbzfurqoaoubcuduxbdmzgb.dgudtof.yunqb.quvdjocuXdarvzzaudf
uuuuuusfcdioudmzxouizauduMdcjoapbggo—rqdrubcuyzsauz bfbzf?”

uuuuuu“DrugodcruBuvbtqrutzurqougoftrquziucdybfturqdrurqoaoubcuczvo
uuuuuuopbxof.ourqdrurqbcuvdyumouczk”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgykuMsrucsaogy,ubiuyzsaucs oafdrsadgurqozayumou.zaao.r,ubr
uuuuuu.zsgxunzajurqouyzsftuvdfuopbgubfuGzfxzfudcuodcbgyudcubf
uuuuuuXopzfcqbaokuDuxopbgunbrquvoaogyugz.dgu znoacugbjoudu dabcqupocray
uuuuuunzsgxumourzzubf.zf.obpdmgoudurqbftk”

uuuuuu“Yzsu srurqouvdrroauvzaouigb  dfrgy,uVakuQzgvoc,urqdfuyzsunzsgx
uuuuuu azmdmgyuxzubiuyzsunoaoumazstqrubfrzu oaczfdgu.zfrd.runbrqurqoco
uuuuuurqbftckuYzsaudxpb.o,urqof,udcuBusfxoacrdfxubr,ubcurqdrurqouyzsft
uuuuuuvdfunbggumoudcucdioubfuXopzfcqbaoudcubfuGzfxzfkuQou.zvocubfuibiry
uuuuuuvbfsrockuNqdrunzsgxuyzsuao.zvvofx?”

uuuuuu“Buao.zvvofx,ucba,urqdruyzsurdjoudu.dm,u.dgguziiuyzsauc dfbogunqz
uuuuuubcuc.adr.qbftudruvyuiazfruxzza,udfxu az.ooxurzuNdroagzzurzuvoor
uuuuuuCbauQofayuMdcjoapbggok”

uuuuuu“Dfxurqof?”

uuuuuu“DfxurqofuyzsunbggucdyufzrqbfturzuqbvudrudggusfrbguBuqdpouvdxous 
uuuuuuvyuvbfxudmzsrurqouvdrroak”

uuuuuu“Qznugzftunbggubrurdjouyzsurzuvdjous uyzsauvbfx?”

uuuuuu“Rnofry-izsauqzsackuDrurofuz’.gz.jurzvzaazn,uXakuVzarbvoa,uBunbgg
uuuuuumouvs.quzmgbtoxurzuyzsubiuyzsunbggu.dggus zfuvouqoao,udfxubrunbgg
uuuuuumouziuqog urzuvoubfuvyu gdfcuizaurqouisrsaoubiuyzsunbggumabftuCba
uuuuuuQofayuMdcjoapbggounbrquyzsk”

uuuuuu“Bunbgguxzucz,uVakuQzgvock”uQouc.abmmgoxurqoud  zbfrvofruzfuqbc
uuuuuucqbar-.siiudfxuqsaaboxuziiubfuqbcucradfto,u ooabft,udmcofr-vbfxox
uuuuuuidcqbzfkuQzgvocucrz  oxuqbvudrurqouqodxuziurqoucrdbak

uuuuuu“Zfgyuzfouvzaouesocrbzf,uXakuVzarbvoakuYzsucdyurqdrumoizaouCba
uuuuuu.qdagocuMdcjoapbggo’cuxodrqucopoadgu oz goucdnurqbcud  dabrbzf
uuuuuus zfurqouvzza?”

uuuuuu“Rqaoou oz gouxbxk”

uuuuuu“Xbxudfyucooubrudiroa?”

uuuuuu“Buqdpoufzruqodaxuziudfyk”

uuuuuu“RqdfjuyzskuTzzx-vzafbftk”

uuuuuuQzgvocuaorsafoxurzuqbcucodrunbrqurqdruesborugzzjuziubfndax
uuuuuucdrbcid.rbzfunqb.quvodfrurqdruqouqdxudu.zftofbdgurdcjumoizaouqbvk

uuuuuu“Tzbftuzsr,uNdrczf?”

uuuuuu“SfgoccuBu.dfuqog uyzsk”

uuuuuu“Fz,uvyuxodauioggzn,ubrubcudrurqouqzsauziud.rbzfurqdruBursafurz
uuuuuuyzsuizaudbxkuMsrurqbcubcuc gofxbx,uaodggyusfbesouiazvuczvou zbfrc
uuuuuuziupbonkuNqofuyzsu dccuMadxgoy’c,unzsgxuyzsudcjuqbvurzucofxus ud
uuuuuu zsfxuziurqoucrazftocrucqdturzmd..z?uRqdfjuyzskuBrunzsgxumoudc
uuuuuunoggubiuyzsu.zsgxuvdjoubru.zfpofbofrufzrurzuaorsafumoizao
uuuuuuopofbftkuRqofuBucqzsgxumoupoayutgdxurzu.zv daoubv aoccbzfcudcurz
uuuuuurqbcuvzcrubfroaocrbftu azmgovunqb.quqdcumoofucsmvbrroxurzuscurqbc
uuuuuuvzafbftk”

uuuuuuBujfonurqdruco.gscbzfudfxuczgbrsxounoaoupoayufo.occdayuizauvy
uuuuuuiabofxubfurqzcouqzsacuziubfrofcouvofrdgu.zf.ofradrbzfuxsabft
uuuuuunqb.quqounobtqoxuopoayu darb.gouziuopbxof.o,u.zfcras.rox
uuuuuudgroafdrbpourqozaboc,umdgdf.oxuzfoudtdbfcrurqouzrqoa,udfxuvdxous 
uuuuuuqbcuvbfxudcurzunqb.qu zbfrcunoaouoccofrbdgudfxunqb.qubvvdroabdgk
uuuuuuBurqoaoizaouc ofrurqouxdyudruvyu.gsmudfxuxbxufzruaorsafurzuMdjoa
uuuuuuCraoorusfrbguopofbftkuBrundcufodagyufbfouz’.gz.junqofuBuizsfx
uuuuuuvycogiubfurqoucbrrbft-azzvuzf.ouvzaok

uuuuuuVyuibacrubv aoccbzfudcuBuz ofoxurqouxzzaundcurqdruduibaouqdx
uuuuuumazjofuzsr,uizaurqouazzvundcuczuibggoxunbrqucvzjourqdrurqougbtqr
uuuuuuziurqougdv us zfurqourdmgoundcumgsaaoxumyubrkuDcuBuofroaox,
uuuuuuqznopoa,uvyuiodacunoaoucorudruaocr,uizaubrundcurqoud.abxuisvocuzi
uuuuuucrazftu.zdacourzmd..zunqb.qurzzjuvoumyurqourqazdrudfxucoruvo
uuuuuu.zstqbftkuRqazstqurqouqdlouBuqdxudupdtsoupbcbzfuziuQzgvocubfuqbc
uuuuuuxaoccbft-tznfu.zbgoxus ubfudfudav.qdbaunbrquqbcumgd.ju.gdyu b o
uuuuuumornoofuqbcugb ckuCopoadguazggcuziu d oaugdyudazsfxuqbvk

uuuuuu“.dstqru.zgx,uNdrczf?”ucdbxuqok

uuuuuu“Fz,ubr’curqbcu zbczfzscudrvzc qoaok”

uuuuuu“Bucs  zcoubru_bc_u aorryurqb.j,ufznurqdruyzsuvofrbzfubrk”

uuuuuu“Rqb.j!uBrubcubfrzgoadmgok”

uuuuuu“Z ofurqounbfxzn,urqof!uYzsuqdpoumoofudruyzsau.gsmudgguxdy,uB
uuuuuu oa.obpok”

uuuuuu“VyuxodauQzgvoc!”

uuuuuu“DvuBuabtqr?”

uuuuuu“.oardbfgy,umsruqzn?”

uuuuuuQougdstqoxudruvyumonbgxoaoxuoh aoccbzfku“Rqoaoubcuduxogbtqrisg
uuuuuuiaocqfoccudmzsruyzs,uNdrczf,unqb.quvdjocubrudu godcsaourz
uuuuuuohoa.bcoudfyucvdggu znoacunqb.quBu zccoccudruyzsauoh ofcokuD
uuuuuutofrgovdfutzocuizarquzfuducqznoayudfxuvbayuxdykuQouaorsafc
uuuuuubvvd.sgdroubfurqouopofbftunbrqurqoutgzccucrbgguzfuqbcuqdrudfxuqbc
uuuuuumzzrckuQouqdcumoofuduibhrsaourqoaoizaoudgguxdykuQoubcufzruduvdf
uuuuuunbrqubfrbvdrouiabofxckuNqoao,urqof,u.zsgxuqouqdpoumoof?uBcubrufzr
uuuuuuzmpbzsc?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,ubrubcuadrqoauzmpbzsck”

uuuuuu“Rqounzagxubcuisgguziuzmpbzscurqbftcunqb.qufzmzxyumyudfyu.qdf.o
uuuuuuopoauzmcoapockuNqoaouxzuyzsurqbfjurqdruBuqdpoumoof?”

uuuuuu“Duibhrsaoudgczk”

uuuuuu“Zfurqou.zfraday,uBuqdpoumoofurzuXopzfcqbaok”

uuuuuu“Bfuc babr?”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgykuVyumzxyuqdcuaovdbfoxubfurqbcudav.qdbaudfxuqdc,uBuaotaor
uuuuuurzuzmcoapo,u.zfcsvoxubfuvyudmcof.ournzugdatou zrcuziu.ziiooudfx
uuuuuudfubf.aoxbmgoudvzsfruziurzmd..zkuDiroauyzsugoiruBucofruxznfurz
uuuuuuCrdvizax’cuizaurqouZaxfdf.ouvd uziurqbcu zarbzfuziurqouvzza,udfx
uuuuuuvyuc babruqdcuqzpoaoxuzpoaubrudgguxdykuBuigdrroauvycogiurqdruB
uuuuuu.zsgxuibfxuvyundyudmzsrk”

uuuuuu“Dugdato-c.dgouvd ,uBu aocsvo?”

uuuuuu“Poayugdatok”

uuuuuuQousfazggoxuzfouco.rbzfudfxuqogxubruzpoauqbcujfooku“Qoaouyzsuqdpo
uuuuuurqou darb.sgdauxbcrab.runqb.qu.zf.oafcusckuRqdrubcuMdcjoapbggo
uuuuuuQdggubfurqouvbxxgok”

uuuuuu“Nbrqudunzzxuazsfxubr?”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgykuBuidf.yurqouyonudggoy,urqzstqufzruvdajoxusfxoaurqdr
uuuuuufdvo,uvscrucraor.qudgzfturqbcugbfo,unbrqurqouvzza,udcuyzs
uuuuuu oa.obpo,us zfurqouabtqruziubrkuRqbcucvdggu.gsv uziumsbgxbftc
uuuuuuqoaoubcurqouqdvgoruziuTabv of,unqoaouzsauiabofxuXakuVzarbvoauqdc
uuuuuuqbcuqodxesdaroackuNbrqbfuduadxbscuziuibpouvbgocurqoaoudao,udcuyzs
uuuuuucoo,uzfgyudupoayuionuc.drroaoxuxnoggbftckuQoaoubcuGdiroauQdgg,
uuuuuunqb.qundcuvofrbzfoxubfurqoufdaadrbpokuRqoaoubcuduqzscoubfxb.drox
uuuuuuqoaounqb.quvdyumourqouaocbxof.ouziurqoufdrsadgbcr—Crd gorzf,ubiuB
uuuuuuaovovmoauabtqr,undcuqbcufdvokuQoaoudaournzuvzzagdfxuidavqzscoc,
uuuuuuQbtquRzaudfxuIzsgvbaokuRqofuizsaroofuvbgocudndyurqoutaodru.zfpb.r
uuuuuu abczfuziu abf.orznfkuMornoofudfxudazsfxurqocouc.drroaoxu zbfrc
uuuuuuohrofxcurqouxoczgdro,ugbiogoccuvzzakuRqbc,urqof,ubcurqoucrdto
uuuuuus zfunqb.quradtoxyuqdcumoofu gdyox,udfxus zfunqb.qunouvdyuqog urz
uuuuuu gdyubrudtdbfk”

uuuuuu“Bruvscrumoudunbgxu gd.ok”

uuuuuu“Yoc,urqoucorrbftubcudunzarqyuzfokuBiurqouxopbguxbxuxocbaourz
uuuuuuqdpouduqdfxubfurqoudiidbacuziuvof—”

uuuuuu“Rqofuyzsudaouyzsacogiubf.gbfbfturzurqoucs oafdrsadg
uuuuuuoh gdfdrbzfk”

uuuuuu“Rqouxopbg’cudtofrcuvdyumouziuigocqudfxumgzzx,uvdyurqoyufzr?
uuuuuuRqoaoudaournzuesocrbzfcundbrbftuizauscudrurqouzsrcorkuRqouzfoubc
uuuuuunqorqoaudfyu.abvouqdcumoofu.zvvbrroxudrudgg;urqouco.zfxubc,unqdr
uuuuuubcurqou.abvoudfxuqznundcubru.zvvbrrox?uZiu.zsaco,ubiuXak
uuuuuuVzarbvoa’cucsavbcoucqzsgxumou.zaao.r,udfxunoudaouxodgbftunbrq
uuuuuuiza.ocuzsrcbxourqouzaxbfdayugdncuziuFdrsao,urqoaoubcudfuofxuzi
uuuuuuzsaubfpocrbtdrbzfkuMsrunoudaoumzsfxurzuohqdscrudgguzrqoa
uuuuuuqy zrqococumoizaouidggbftumd.jus zfurqbcuzfokuBurqbfjuno’ggucqsr
uuuuuurqdrunbfxznudtdbf,ubiuyzsuxzf’ruvbfxkuBrubcuducbftsgdaurqbft,umsr
uuuuuuBuibfxurqdrudu.zf.ofradroxudrvzc qoaouqog cudu.zf.ofradrbzfuzi
uuuuuurqzstqrkuBuqdpoufzru scqoxubrurzurqougoftrquziutorrbftubfrzudumzh
uuuuuurzurqbfj,umsrurqdrubcurqougztb.dguzsr.zvouziuvyu.zfpb.rbzfckuQdpo
uuuuuuyzsursafoxurqou.dcouzpoaubfuyzsauvbfx?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uBuqdpourqzstqrudutzzxuxodguziubrubfurqou.zsacouziurqouxdyk”

uuuuuu“Nqdruxzuyzsuvdjouziubr?”

uuuuuu“Brubcupoayumonbgxoabftk”

uuuuuu“Bruqdcu.oardbfgyudu.qdad.roauziubrcuznfkuRqoaoudaou zbfrcuzi
uuuuuuxbcrbf.rbzfudmzsrubrkuRqdru.qdftoubfurqouizzr abfrc,uizauohdv gok
uuuuuuNqdruxzuyzsuvdjouziurqdr?”

uuuuuu“Vzarbvoaucdbxurqdrurqouvdfuqdxundgjoxuzfurb rzouxznfurqdr
uuuuuu zarbzfuziurqoudggoyk”

uuuuuu“Qouzfgyuao odroxunqdruczvouizzguqdxucdbxudrurqoubfesocrkuNqy
uuuuuucqzsgxuduvdfundgjuzfurb rzouxznfurqoudggoy?”

uuuuuu“Nqdrurqof?”

uuuuuu“Qoundcuasffbft,uNdrczf—asffbftuxoc oadrogy,uasffbftuizauqbc
uuuuuugbio,uasffbftusfrbguqoumsacruqbcuqodar—dfxuiogguxodxus zfuqbc
uuuuuuid.ok”

uuuuuu“Asffbftuiazvunqdr?”

uuuuuu“Rqoaougbocuzsau azmgovkuRqoaoudaoubfxb.drbzfcurqdrurqouvdfundc
uuuuuu.adloxunbrquiodaumoizaouopoauqoumotdfurzuasfk”

uuuuuu“Qznu.dfuyzsucdyurqdr?”

uuuuuu“Budvu aocsvbfturqdrurqou.dscouziuqbcuiodacu.dvourzuqbvud.azcc
uuuuuurqouvzzakuBiurqdrunoaoucz,udfxubrucoovcuvzcru azmdmgo,uzfgyuduvdf
uuuuuunqzuqdxugzcruqbcunbrcunzsgxuqdpouasfu_iazv_urqouqzscoubfcrodxuzi
uuuuuurzndaxcubrkuBiurqoutb cy’cuopbxof.ouvdyumourdjofudcuraso,uqouadf
uuuuuunbrqu.abocuizauqog ubfurqouxbao.rbzfunqoaouqog undcugodcrugbjogy
uuuuuurzumokuRqof,udtdbf,unqzvundcuqoundbrbftuizaurqdrufbtqr,udfxunqy
uuuuuundcuqoundbrbftuizauqbvubfurqouyonudggoyuadrqoaurqdfubfuqbcuznf
uuuuuuqzsco?”

uuuuuu“Yzsurqbfjurqdruqoundcundbrbftuizauczvozfo?”

uuuuuu“RqouvdfundcuogxoagyudfxubfibavkuNou.dfusfxoacrdfxuqbcurdjbftudf
uuuuuuopofbftucrazgg,umsrurqoutazsfxundcuxdv udfxurqoufbtqrubf.govofrk
uuuuuuBcubrufdrsadgurqdruqoucqzsgxucrdfxuizauibpouzaurofuvbfsroc,udc
uuuuuuXakuVzarbvoa,unbrquvzaou ad.rb.dgucofcourqdfuBucqzsgxuqdpoutbpof
uuuuuuqbvu.aoxbruiza,uxoxs.oxuiazvurqou.btdaudcq?”

uuuuuu“Msruqounofruzsruopoayuopofbftk”

uuuuuu“Burqbfjubrusfgbjogyurqdruqoundbroxudrurqouvzza-tdrouopoay
uuuuuuopofbftkuZfurqou.zfraday,urqouopbxof.oubcurqdruqoudpzbxoxurqo
uuuuuuvzzakuRqdrufbtqruqoundbroxurqoaokuBrundcurqoufbtqrumoizaouqouvdxo
uuuuuuqbcuxo darsaouizauGzfxzfkuRqourqbfturdjocucqd o,uNdrczfkuBr
uuuuuumo.zvocu.zqoaofrkuVbtqruBudcjuyzsurzuqdfxuvouvyupbzgbf,udfxuno
uuuuuunbggu zcr zfoudgguisarqoaurqzstqrus zfurqbcumscbfoccusfrbguno
uuuuuuqdpouqdxurqoudxpdfrdtouziuvoorbftuXakuVzarbvoaudfxuCbauQofay
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggoubfurqouvzafbftk”



.qd roau4k

CbauQofayuMdcjoapbggo

uuuuuuZsaumaodjidcrurdmgoundcu.godaoxuodagy,udfxuQzgvocundbroxubfuqbc
uuuuuuxaoccbft-tznfuizaurqou azvbcoxubfroapbonkuZsau.gbofrcunoao
uuuuuu sf.rsdgurzurqobaud  zbfrvofr,uizaurqou.gz.juqdxuwscrucras.jurof
uuuuuunqofuXakuVzarbvoaundcucqznfus ,uizggznoxumyurqouyzsftumdazfork
uuuuuuRqougdrroaundcuducvdgg,udgoar,uxdaj-oyoxuvdfudmzsrurqbaryuyodac
uuuuuuziudto,upoayucrsaxbgyumsbgr,unbrqurqb.jumgd.juoyomazncudfxud
uuuuuucrazft,u stfd.bzscuid.okuQounzaouduasxxy-rbfroxurnooxucsbrudfx
uuuuuuqdxurqounodrqoa-modrofud  odadf.ouziuzfounqzuqdcuc ofruvzcruzi
uuuuuuqbcurbvoubfurqouz ofudba,udfxuyorurqoaoundcuczvorqbftubfuqbc
uuuuuucrodxyuoyoudfxurqouesborudccsadf.ouziuqbcumodabftunqb.qubfxb.drox
uuuuuurqoutofrgovdfk

uuuuuu“RqbcubcuCbauQofayuMdcjoapbggo,”ucdbxuXakuVzarbvoak

uuuuuu“Nqy,uyoc,”ucdbxuqo,u“dfxurqoucradftourqbftubc,uVakuCqoagz.j
uuuuuuQzgvoc,urqdrubiuvyuiabofxuqoaouqdxufzru az zcoxu.zvbftuazsfxurz
uuuuuuyzsurqbcuvzafbftuBucqzsgxuqdpou.zvouzfuvyuznfud..zsfrkuB
uuuuuusfxoacrdfxurqdruyzsurqbfjuzsrugbrrgou sllgoc,udfxuB’pouqdxuzfo
uuuuuurqbcuvzafbftunqb.qundfrcuvzaourqbfjbftuzsrurqdfuBudvudmgourzutbpo
uuuuuubrk”

uuuuuu“ adyurdjouducodr,uCbauQofaykuXzuBusfxoacrdfxuyzsurzucdyurqdruyzs
uuuuuuqdpouyzsacogiuqdxuczvouaovdajdmgouoh oabof.oucbf.ouyzsudaabpoxubf
uuuuuuGzfxzf?”

uuuuuu“Fzrqbftuziuvs.qubv zardf.o,uVakuQzgvockuZfgyuduwzjo,udcugbjoudc
uuuuuufzrkuBrundcurqbcugorroa,ubiuyzsu.dfu.dggubrudugorroa,unqb.q
uuuuuuaod.qoxuvourqbcuvzafbftk”

uuuuuuQougdbxudfuofpogz ous zfurqourdmgo,udfxunoudggumofruzpoaubrkuBr
uuuuuundcuziu.zvvzfuesdgbry,utaoybcqubfu.zgzsakuRqoudxxaocc,u“CbauQofay
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggo,uFzarqsvmoagdfxuQzrog,”undcu abfroxubfuazstq
uuuuuu.qdad.roac;urqou zcr-vdaju“.qdabftu.azcc,”udfxurqouxdrouzi
uuuuuu zcrbfturqou ao.oxbftuopofbftk

uuuuuu“NqzujfonurqdruyzsunoaoutzbfturzurqouFzarqsvmoagdfxuQzrog?”udcjox
uuuuuuQzgvoc,utgdf.bftujoofgyud.azccudruzsaupbcbrzak

uuuuuu“Fzuzfou.zsgxuqdpoujfznfkuNouzfgyuxo.bxoxudiroauBuvoruXak
uuuuuuVzarbvoak”

uuuuuu“MsruXakuVzarbvoaundcufzuxzsmrudgaodxyucrz  bfturqoao?”

uuuuuu“Fz,uBuqdxumoofucrdybftunbrquduiabofx,”ucdbxurqouxz.rzak

uuuuuu“Rqoaoundcufzu zccbmgoubfxb.drbzfurqdrunoubfrofxoxurzutzurzurqbc
uuuuuuqzrogk”

uuuuuu“Qsv!uCzvozfoucoovcurzumoupoayuxoo gyubfroaocroxubfuyzsa
uuuuuuvzpovofrck”uZsruziurqouofpogz ouqourzzjuduqdgi-cqooruziuizzgc.d 
uuuuuu d oauizgxoxubfrzuizsakuRqbcuqouz ofoxudfxuc aodxuigdrus zfurqo
uuuuuurdmgokuD.azccurqouvbxxgouziubruducbftgoucofrof.ouqdxumoofuizavox
uuuuuumyurqouoh oxbofruziu dcrbftu abfroxunzaxcus zfubrkuBruadf:

uuuuuuuuDcuyzsupdgsouyzsaugbiouzauyzsauaodczfujoo udndyuiazvurqouvzzak

uuuuuuRqounzaxu“vzza”uzfgyundcu abfroxubfubfjk

uuuuuu“Fzn,”ucdbxuCbauQofayuMdcjoapbggo,u“ oaqd cuyzsunbggurogguvo,uVak
uuuuuuQzgvoc,unqdrubfurqsfxoaubcurqouvodfbftuziurqdr,udfxunqzubrubc
uuuuuurqdrurdjocuczuvs.qubfroaocrubfuvyudiidbac?”

uuuuuu“Nqdruxzuyzsuvdjouziubr,uXakuVzarbvoa?uYzsuvscrudggznurqdrurqoao
uuuuuubcufzrqbftucs oafdrsadgudmzsrurqbc,udrudfyuadro?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ucba,umsrubruvbtqrupoayunoggu.zvouiazvuczvozfounqzundc
uuuuuu.zfpbf.oxurqdrurqoumscbfoccubcucs oafdrsadgk”

uuuuuu“Nqdrumscbfocc?”udcjoxuCbauQofayucqda gyku“Brucoovcurzuvourqdr
uuuuuudgguyzsutofrgovofujfznudutaodruxodguvzaourqdfuBuxzudmzsruvyuznf
uuuuuudiidback”

uuuuuu“Yzsucqdggucqdaouzsaujfzngoxtoumoizaouyzsugodpourqbcuazzv,uCba
uuuuuuQofaykuBu azvbcouyzsurqdr,”ucdbxuCqoagz.juQzgvocku“Nounbgg
uuuuuu.zfibfouzsacogpocuizaurqou aocofrunbrquyzsau oavbccbzfurzurqbc
uuuuuupoayubfroaocrbftuxz.svofr,unqb.quvscruqdpoumoofu srurztorqoaudfx
uuuuuu zcroxuyocroaxdyuopofbftkuQdpouyzsuyocroaxdy’cu_Rbvoc_,uNdrczf?”

uuuuuu“Brubcuqoaoubfurqou.zafoak”

uuuuuu“VbtqruBurazsmgouyzsuizaubr—rqoubfcbxou dto,u godco,unbrqurqo
uuuuuugodxbftudarb.goc?”uQoutgdf.oxucnbirgyuzpoaubr,uasffbftuqbcuoyoc
uuuuuus udfxuxznfurqou.zgsvfcku“.d brdgudarb.gourqbcuzfuiaoouradxok
uuuuuu oavbruvourzutbpouyzsudfuohrad.ruiazvubrk

uuuuu‘Yzsuvdyumou.dwzgoxubfrzubvdtbfbfturqdruyzsauznfuc o.bdguradxouza
uuuuuyzsauznfubfxscrayunbggumouof.zsadtoxumyudu azro.rbpourdabii,umsr
uuuuubrucrdfxcurzuaodczfurqdrucs.qugotbcgdrbzfuvscrubfurqougzftuasf
uuuuujoo udndyunodgrquiazvurqou.zsfray,uxbvbfbcqurqoupdgsouziuzsa
uuuuubv zarc,udfxugznoaurqoutofoadgu.zfxbrbzfcuziugbioubfurqbcubcgdfxk’

uuuuuu“Nqdruxzuyzsurqbfjuziurqdr,uNdrczf?”u.aboxuQzgvocubfuqbtqutgoo,
uuuuuuasmmbftuqbcuqdfxcurztorqoaunbrqucdrbcid.rbzfku“Xzf’ruyzsurqbfj
uuuuuurqdrubcudfudxvbadmgoucofrbvofr?”

uuuuuuXakuVzarbvoaugzzjoxudruQzgvocunbrqudfudbauziu azioccbzfdg
uuuuuubfroaocr,udfxuCbauQofayuMdcjoapbggoursafoxudu dbauziu sllgoxuxdaj
uuuuuuoyocus zfuvok

uuuuuu“Buxzf’rujfznuvs.qudmzsrurqourdabiiudfxurqbftcuziurqdrujbfx,”
uuuuuucdbxuqo,u“msrubrucoovcurzuvouno’poutzrudumbruziiurqouradbguczuida
uuuuuudcurqdrufzroubcu.zf.oafoxk”

uuuuuu“Zfurqou.zfraday,uBurqbfjunoudaou darb.sgdagyuqzrus zfurqouradbg,
uuuuuuCbauQofaykuNdrczfuqoaoujfzncuvzaoudmzsruvyuvorqzxcurqdfuyzsuxz,
uuuuuumsruBuiodaurqdruopofuqouqdcufzruesbroutadc oxurqoucbtfbib.df.ouzi
uuuuuurqbcucofrof.ok”

uuuuuu“Fz,uBu.zfioccurqdruBucooufzu.zffo.rbzfk”

uuuuuu“Dfxuyor,uvyuxodauNdrczf,urqoaoubcuczupoayu.gzcoudu.zffo.rbzf
uuuuuurqdrurqouzfoubcuohrad.roxuzsruziurqouzrqoaku‘Yzs,’u‘yzsa,’
uuuuuu‘yzsa,’u‘gbio,’u‘aodczf,’u‘pdgso,’u‘joo udndy,’u‘iazvurqok’uXzf’r
uuuuuuyzsucooufznunqof.ourqocounzaxcuqdpoumoofurdjof?”

uuuuuu“Myurqsfxoa,uyzs’aouabtqr!uNogg,ubiurqdrubcf’rucvdar!”u.aboxuCba
uuuuuuQofayk

uuuuuu“Biudfyu zccbmgouxzsmruaovdbfoxubrubcucorrgoxumyurqouid.rurqdr
uuuuuu‘joo udndy’udfxu‘iazvurqo’udaou.sruzsrubfuzfou bo.ok”

uuuuuu“Nogg,ufzn—czubrubc!”

uuuuuu“Aodggy,uVakuQzgvoc,urqbcuoh.ooxcudfyrqbftunqb.quBu.zsgxuqdpo
uuuuuubvdtbfox,”ucdbxuXakuVzarbvoa,utdlbftudruvyuiabofxubfudvdlovofrk
uuuuuu“Bu.zsgxusfxoacrdfxudfyzfoucdybfturqdrurqounzaxcunoaouiazvud
uuuuuufonc d oa;umsrurqdruyzsucqzsgxufdvounqb.q,udfxudxxurqdrubru.dvo
uuuuuuiazvurqougodxbftudarb.go,ubcuaodggyuzfouziurqouvzcruaovdajdmgo
uuuuuurqbftcunqb.quBuqdpouopoaujfznfkuQznuxbxuyzsuxzubr?”

uuuuuu“Bu aocsvo,uXz.rza,urqdruyzsu.zsgxuroggurqoucjsgguziudufotazuiazv
uuuuuurqdruziudfuOcesbvds?”

uuuuuu“Vzcru.oardbfgyk”

uuuuuu“Msruqzn?”

uuuuuu“Mo.dscourqdrubcuvyuc o.bdguqzmmykuRqouxbiioaof.ocudaouzmpbzsck
uuuuuuRqoucs ad-zambrdgu.aocr,urqouid.bdgudftgo,urqouvdhbggdayu.sapo,
uuuuuurqo—”

uuuuuu“Msrurqbcubcuvyuc o.bdguqzmmy,udfxurqouxbiioaof.ocudaouoesdggy
uuuuuuzmpbzsckuRqoaoubcudcuvs.quxbiioaof.ourzuvyuoyocumornoofurqo
uuuuuugodxoxumzsatozbcury ouziudu_Rbvoc_udarb.goudfxurqoucgzpofgyu abfr
uuuuuuziudfuopofbftuqdgi- offyu d oaudcurqoaou.zsgxumoumornoofuyzsa
uuuuuufotazudfxuyzsauOcesbvdskuRqouxoro.rbzfuziury ocubcuzfouziurqo
uuuuuuvzcruogovofrdayumadf.qocuziujfzngoxtourzurqouc o.bdguoh oarubf
uuuuuu.abvo,urqzstquBu.zfioccurqdruzf.ounqofuBundcupoayuyzsftuB
uuuuuu.zfiscoxurqou_GooxcuVoa.say_unbrqurqou_NocroafuVzafbftuFonc_kuMsr
uuuuuudu_Rbvoc_ugodxoaubcuofrbaogyuxbcrbf.rbpo,udfxurqocounzaxcu.zsgx
uuuuuuqdpoumoofurdjofuiazvufzrqbftuogcokuDcubrundcuxzfouyocroaxdyurqo
uuuuuucrazftu azmdmbgbryundcurqdrunoucqzsgxuibfxurqounzaxcubf
uuuuuuyocroaxdy’cubccsok”

uuuuuu“CzuidaudcuBu.dfuizggznuyzs,urqof,uVakuQzgvoc,”ucdbxuCbauQofay
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggo,u“czvozfou.sruzsrurqbcuvoccdtounbrquduc.bcczac—”

uuuuuu“Fdbg-c.bcczac,”ucdbxuQzgvocku“Yzsu.dfucoourqdrubrundcudupoay
uuuuuucqzar-mgdxoxuc.bcczac,ucbf.ourqou.srroauqdxurzurdjournzucfb c
uuuuuuzpoau‘joo udndyk’”

uuuuuu“RqdrubcuczkuCzvozfo,urqof,u.sruzsrurqouvoccdtounbrqudu dbauzi
uuuuuucqzar-mgdxoxuc.bcczac,u dcroxubrunbrqu dcro—”

uuuuuu“Tsv,”ucdbxuQzgvock

uuuuuu“Nbrqutsvuzfurzurqou d oakuMsruBundfrurzujfznunqyurqounzaxu‘vzza’
uuuuuucqzsgxuqdpoumoofunabrrof?”

uuuuuu“Mo.dscouqou.zsgxufzruibfxubrubfu abfrkuRqouzrqoaunzaxcunoaoudgg
uuuuuucbv goudfxuvbtqrumouizsfxubfudfyubccso,umsru‘vzza’unzsgxumougocc
uuuuuu.zvvzfk”

uuuuuu“Nqy,uziu.zsaco,urqdrunzsgxuoh gdbfubrkuQdpouyzsuaodxudfyrqbft
uuuuuuogcoubfurqbcuvoccdto,uVakuQzgvoc?”

uuuuuu“Rqoaoudaouzfouzaurnzubfxb.drbzfc,udfxuyorurqousrvzcru dbfcuqdpo
uuuuuumoofurdjofurzuaovzpoudggu.gsockuRqoudxxaocc,uyzsuzmcoapoubc
uuuuuu abfroxubfuazstqu.qdad.roackuMsrurqou_Rbvoc_ubcudu d oaunqb.qubc
uuuuuucogxzvuizsfxubfudfyuqdfxcumsrurqzcouziurqouqbtqgyuoxs.droxkuNo
uuuuuuvdyurdjoubr,urqoaoizao,urqdrurqougorroaundcu.zv zcoxumyudf
uuuuuuoxs.droxuvdfunqzunbcqoxurzu zcoudcudfusfoxs.droxuzfo,udfxuqbc
uuuuuuoiizarurzu.zf.odguqbcuznfunabrbftucsttocrcurqdrurqdrunabrbft
uuuuuuvbtqrumoujfznf,uzau.zvourzumoujfznf,umyuyzskuDtdbf,uyzsunbgg
uuuuuuzmcoapourqdrurqounzaxcudaoufzrutsvvoxuzfubfudfud..sadrougbfo,umsr
uuuuuurqdruczvoudaouvs.quqbtqoaurqdfuzrqoacku‘Gbio,’uizauohdv goubc
uuuuuuesbrouzsruziubrcu az oau gd.okuRqdruvdyu zbfrurzu.daogoccfoccuza
uuuuuubruvdyu zbfrurzudtbrdrbzfudfxuqsaayus zfurqou daruziurqou.srroak
uuuuuuZfurqounqzgouBubf.gbfourzurqougdrroaupbon,ucbf.ourqouvdrroaundc
uuuuuuopbxofrgyubv zardfr,udfxubrubcusfgbjogyurqdrurqou.zv zcoauziucs.q
uuuuuudugorroaunzsgxumou.daogocckuBiuqounoaoubfuduqsaayubruz ofcus urqo
uuuuuubfroaocrbftuesocrbzfunqyuqoucqzsgxumoubfuduqsaay,ucbf.oudfy
uuuuuugorroau zcroxus urzuodagyuvzafbftunzsgxuaod.quCbauQofayumoizaouqo
uuuuuunzsgxugodpouqbcuqzrogkuXbxurqou.zv zcoauiodaudfubfroaas rbzf—dfx
uuuuuuiazvunqzv?”

uuuuuu“Noudaou.zvbftufznuadrqoaubfrzurqouaotbzfuziutsoccnzaj,”ucdbxuXak
uuuuuuVzarbvoak

uuuuuu“Cdy,uadrqoa,ubfrzurqouaotbzfunqoaounoumdgdf.ou azmdmbgbrbocudfx
uuuuuu.qzzcourqouvzcrugbjogykuBrubcurqouc.bofrbib.uscouziurqo
uuuuuubvdtbfdrbzf,umsrunouqdpoudgndycuczvouvdroabdgumdcbcuzfunqb.qurz
uuuuuucrdaruzsauc o.sgdrbzfkuFzn,uyzsunzsgxu.dggubrudutsocc,ufzuxzsmr,
uuuuuumsruBudvudgvzcru.oardbfurqdrurqbcudxxaoccuqdcumoofunabrrofubfud
uuuuuuqzrogk”

uuuuuu“Qznubfurqounzagxu.dfuyzsucdyurqdr?”

uuuuuu“Biuyzsuohdvbfoubru.daoisggyuyzsunbggucoourqdrumzrqurqou ofudfx
uuuuuurqoubfjuqdpoutbpofurqounabroaurazsmgokuRqou ofuqdcuc gsrroaox
uuuuuurnb.oubfuducbftgounzaxudfxuqdcuasfuxayurqaoourbvocubfuducqzar
uuuuuudxxaocc,ucqznbfturqdrurqoaoundcupoayugbrrgoubfjubfurqoumzrrgok
uuuuuuFzn,udu abpdrou ofuzaubfj-mzrrgoubcucogxzvudggznoxurzumoubfucs.q
uuuuuuducrdro,udfxurqou.zvmbfdrbzfuziurqournzuvscrumouesbrouadaokuMsr
uuuuuuyzsujfznurqouqzrogubfjudfxurqouqzrogu of,unqoaoubrubcuadaourzutor
uuuuuudfyrqbftuogcokuYoc,uBuqdpoupoayugbrrgouqocbrdrbzfubfucdybfturqdr
uuuuuu.zsgxunouohdvbfourqoundcro- d oaumdcjorcuziurqouqzrogcudazsfx
uuuuuu.qdabftu.azccusfrbgunouizsfxurqouaovdbfcuziurqouvsrbgdroxu_Rbvoc_
uuuuuugodxoaunou.zsgxugdyuzsauqdfxcucradbtqrus zfurqou oaczfunqzucofr
uuuuuurqbcucbftsgdauvoccdtokuQdggzd!uQdggzd!uNqdr’curqbc?”

uuuuuuQoundcu.daoisggyuohdvbfbfturqouizzgc.d ,us zfunqb.qurqounzaxc
uuuuuunoaou dcrox,uqzgxbftubruzfgyudfubf.quzaurnzuiazvuqbcuoyock

uuuuuu“Nogg?”

uuuuuu“Fzrqbft,”ucdbxuqo,urqaznbftubruxznfku“Brubcudumgdfjuqdgi-cqoor
uuuuuuziu d oa,unbrqzsruopofudundroa-vdajus zfubrkuBurqbfjunouqdpo
uuuuuuxadnfudcuvs.qudcunou.dfuiazvurqbcu.sabzscugorroa;udfxufzn,uCba
uuuuuuQofay,uqdcudfyrqbftuogcouziubfroaocruqd  ofoxurzuyzsucbf.ouyzs
uuuuuuqdpoumoofubfuGzfxzf?”

uuuuuu“Nqy,ufz,uVakuQzgvockuBurqbfjufzrk”

uuuuuu“Yzsuqdpoufzruzmcoapoxudfyzfouizggznuzaundr.quyzs?”

uuuuuu“Bucoovurzuqdpoundgjoxuabtqrubfrzurqourqb.juziuduxbvoufzpog,”
uuuuuucdbxuzsaupbcbrzaku“Nqyubfurqsfxoaucqzsgxudfyzfouizggznuzaundr.q
uuuuuuvo?”

uuuuuu“Noudaou.zvbfturzurqdrkuYzsuqdpoufzrqbftuogcourzuao zarurzusc
uuuuuumoizaounoutzubfrzurqbcuvdrroa?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,ubruxo ofxcus zfunqdruyzsurqbfjunzarquao zarbftk”

uuuuuu“Burqbfjudfyrqbftuzsruziurqouzaxbfdayuazsrbfouziugbiounoggunzarq
uuuuuuao zarbftk”

uuuuuuCbauQofayucvbgoxku“Buxzf’rujfznuvs.quziuMabrbcqugbiouyor,uizauB
uuuuuuqdpouc ofrufodagyudgguvyurbvoubfurqouCrdrocudfxubfu.dfdxdkuMsruB
uuuuuuqz ourqdrurzugzcouzfouziuyzsaumzzrcubcufzru daruziurqouzaxbfday
uuuuuuazsrbfouziugbiouzpoauqoaok”

uuuuuu“Yzsuqdpougzcruzfouziuyzsaumzzrc?”

uuuuuu“Vyuxodaucba,”u.aboxuXakuVzarbvoa,u“brubcuzfgyuvbcgdbxkuYzsunbgg
uuuuuuibfxubrunqofuyzsuaorsafurzurqouqzrogkuNqdrubcurqouscouzi
uuuuuurazsmgbftuVakuQzgvocunbrqurabigocuziurqbcujbfx?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uqoudcjoxuvouizaudfyrqbftuzsrcbxourqouzaxbfdayuazsrbfok”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgy,”ucdbxuQzgvoc,u“qznopoauizzgbcqurqoubf.bxofruvdyucoovk
uuuuuuYzsuqdpougzcruzfouziuyzsaumzzrc,uyzsucdy?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uvbcgdbxubr,udfyqznkuBu srurqovumzrquzsrcbxouvyuxzzaugdcr
uuuuuufbtqr,udfxurqoaoundcuzfgyuzfoubfurqouvzafbftkuBu.zsgxutorufz
uuuuuucofcouzsruziurqou.qd unqzu.godfcurqovkuRqounzacruziubrubcurqdruB
uuuuuuzfgyumzstqrurqou dbaugdcrufbtqrubfurqouCradfx,udfxuBuqdpoufopoa
uuuuuuqdxurqovuzfk”

uuuuuu“Biuyzsuqdpoufopoaunzafurqov,unqyuxbxuyzsu srurqovuzsrurzumo
uuuuuu.godfox?”

uuuuuu“RqoyunoaourdfumzzrcudfxuqdxufopoaumoofupdafbcqoxkuRqdrundcunqyuB
uuuuuu srurqovuzsrk”

uuuuuu“RqofuBusfxoacrdfxurqdruzfuyzsaudaabpdgubfuGzfxzfuyocroaxdyuyzs
uuuuuunofruzsrudruzf.oudfxumzstqrudu dbauziumzzrc?”

uuuuuu“Buxbxudutzzxuxodguziucqz  bftkuXakuVzarbvoauqoaounofruazsfxunbrq
uuuuuuvokuYzsucoo,ubiuBudvurzumoucesbaouxznfurqoaouBuvscruxaoccurqo
uuuuuu dar,udfxubruvdyumourqdruBuqdpoutzrudugbrrgou.daogoccubfuvyundyc
uuuuuuzsruNocrkuDvzftuzrqoaurqbftcuBumzstqrurqocoumaznfumzzrc—tdpoucbh
uuuuuuxzggdacuizaurqov—dfxuqdxuzfoucrzgofumoizaouopoauBuqdxurqovuzfuvy
uuuuuuioork”

uuuuuu“Brucoovcuducbftsgdagyuscogoccurqbfturzucrodg,”ucdbxuCqoagz.j
uuuuuuQzgvocku“Bu.zfioccurqdruBucqdaouXakuVzarbvoa’cumogboiurqdrubr
uuuuuunbggufzrumougzftumoizaourqouvbccbftumzzrubcuizsfxk”

uuuuuu“Dfx,ufzn,utofrgovof,”ucdbxurqoumdazforunbrquxo.bcbzf,u“brucoovc
uuuuuurzuvourqdruBuqdpouc zjofuesbrouofzstqudmzsrurqougbrrgourqdruB
uuuuuujfznkuBrubcurbvourqdruyzsujo ruyzsau azvbcoudfxutdpouvouduisgg
uuuuuud..zsfruziunqdrunoudaoudgguxabpbftudrk”

uuuuuu“Yzsauaoesocrubcudupoayuaodczfdmgouzfo,”uQzgvocudfcnoaoxku“Xak
uuuuuuVzarbvoa,uBurqbfjuyzsu.zsgxufzruxzumorroaurqdfurzurogguyzsaucrzay
uuuuuudcuyzsurzgxubrurzusck”

uuuuuuRqscuof.zsadtox,uzsauc.bofrbib.uiabofxuxaonuqbcu d oacuiazvuqbc
uuuuuu z.jorudfxu aocofroxurqounqzgou.dcoudcuqouqdxuxzfous zfurqo
uuuuuuvzafbftumoizaokuCbauQofayuMdcjoapbggougbcrofoxunbrqurqouxoo ocr
uuuuuudrrofrbzfudfxunbrqudfuz..dcbzfdguoh.gdvdrbzfuziucsa abcok

uuuuuu“Nogg,uBucoovurzuqdpou.zvoubfrzudfubfqoabrdf.ounbrqudupoftodf.o,”
uuuuuucdbxuqounqofurqougzftufdaadrbpoundcuibfbcqoxku“Ziu.zsaco,uB’po
uuuuuuqodaxuziurqouqzsfxuopoaucbf.ouBundcubfurqoufsacoaykuBr’curqou or
uuuuuucrzayuziurqouidvbgy,urqzstquBufopoaurqzstqruziurdjbftubr
uuuuuucoabzscgyumoizaokuMsrudcurzuvyusf.go’cuxodrq—nogg,ubrudggucoovc
uuuuuumzbgbftus ubfuvyuqodx,udfxuBu.df’rutorubru.godauyorkuYzsuxzf’r
uuuuuucoovuesbrourzuqdpouvdxous uyzsauvbfxunqorqoaubr’cudu.dcouizaud
uuuuuu zgb.ovdfuzaudu.goatyvdfk”

uuuuuu“ ao.bcogyk”

uuuuuu“Dfxufznurqoao’curqbcudiidbauziurqougorroaurzuvoudrurqouqzrogkuB
uuuuuucs  zcourqdruibrcubfrzubrcu gd.ok”

uuuuuu“Brucoovcurzucqznurqdruczvozfoujfzncuvzaourqdfunouxzudmzsrunqdr
uuuuuutzocuzfus zfurqouvzza,”ucdbxuXakuVzarbvoak

uuuuuu“Dfxudgcz,”ucdbxuQzgvoc,u“rqdruczvozfoubcufzrubgg-xbc zcox
uuuuuurzndaxcuyzs,ucbf.ourqoyundafuyzsuziuxdftoak”

uuuuuu“Zaubruvdyumourqdrurqoyunbcq,uizaurqobauznfu sa zcoc,urzuc.daouvo
uuuuuudndyk”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uziu.zsaco,urqdrubcu zccbmgoudgczkuBudvupoayuvs.qubfxomrox
uuuuuurzuyzs,uXakuVzarbvoa,uizaubfrazxs.bftuvourzudu azmgovunqb.q
uuuuuu aocofrcucopoadgubfroaocrbftudgroafdrbpockuMsrurqou ad.rb.dg
uuuuuu zbfrunqb.qunoufznuqdpourzuxo.bxo,uCbauQofay,ubcunqorqoaubrubcuza
uuuuuubcufzrudxpbcdmgouizauyzsurzutzurzuMdcjoapbggouQdggk”

uuuuuu“NqyucqzsgxuBufzrutz?”

uuuuuu“Rqoaoucoovcurzumouxdftoak”

uuuuuu“Xzuyzsuvodfuxdftoauiazvurqbcuidvbgyuibofxuzauxzuyzsuvodfuxdftoa
uuuuuuiazvuqsvdfumobftc?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,urqdrubcunqdrunouqdpourzuibfxuzsrk”

uuuuuu“Nqb.qopoaubrubc,uvyudfcnoaubcuibhoxkuRqoaoubcufzuxopbgubfuqogg,
uuuuuuVakuQzgvoc,udfxurqoaoubcufzuvdfus zfuodarqunqzu.dfu aopofruvo
uuuuuuiazvutzbfturzurqouqzvouziuvyuznfu oz go,udfxuyzsuvdyurdjourqdrurz
uuuuuumouvyuibfdgudfcnoak”uQbcuxdajumazncujfbrroxudfxuqbcuid.ouigscqox
uuuuuurzuduxscjyuaoxudcuqouc zjokuBrundcuopbxofrurqdrurqouiboayurov oa
uuuuuuziurqouMdcjoapbggocundcufzruohrbf.rubfurqbcurqobaugdcr
uuuuuuao aocofrdrbpoku“Vodfnqbgo,”ucdbxuqo,u“Buqdpouqdaxgyuqdxurbvourz
uuuuuurqbfjuzpoaudggurqdruyzsuqdpourzgxuvokuBr’cudumbturqbftuizauduvdf
uuuuuurzuqdpourzusfxoacrdfxudfxurzuxo.bxoudruzfoucbrrbftkuBucqzsgxugbjo
uuuuuurzuqdpouduesboruqzsaumyuvycogiurzuvdjous uvyuvbfxkuFzn,ugzzj
uuuuuuqoao,uVakuQzgvoc,ubr’cuqdgi- dcruogopofufznudfxuBudvutzbftumd.j
uuuuuuabtqrudndyurzuvyuqzrogkuCs  zcouyzsudfxuyzsauiabofx,uXakuNdrczf,
uuuuuu.zvouazsfxudfxugsf.qunbrquscudrurnzkuB’ggumoudmgourzurogguyzs
uuuuuuvzaou.godagyurqofuqznurqbcurqbftucrabjocuvok”

uuuuuu“Bcurqdru.zfpofbofrurzuyzs,uNdrczf?”

uuuuuu“ oaio.rgyk”

uuuuuu“Rqofuyzsuvdyuoh o.rusckuCqdgguBuqdpoudu.dmu.dggox?”

uuuuuu“B’xu aoioaurzundgj,uizaurqbcudiidbauqdcuigsaaboxuvouadrqoak”

uuuuuu“B’gguwzbfuyzsubfudundgj,unbrqu godcsao,”ucdbxuqbcu.zv dfbzfk

uuuuuu“Rqofunouvoorudtdbfudrurnzuz’.gz.jkuDsuaopzba,udfxutzzx-vzafbft!”

uuuuuuNouqodaxurqoucro cuziuzsaupbcbrzacuxoc.ofxurqoucrdbaudfxurqoumdft
uuuuuuziurqouiazfruxzzakuBfudfubfcrdfruQzgvocuqdxu.qdftoxuiazvurqo
uuuuuugdftsbxuxaodvoaurzurqouvdfuziud.rbzfk

uuuuuu“Yzsauqdrudfxumzzrc,uNdrczf,uesb.j!uFzruduvzvofrurzugzco!”uQo
uuuuuuascqoxubfrzuqbcuazzvubfuqbcuxaoccbft-tznfudfxundcumd.judtdbfubfud
uuuuuuionuco.zfxcubfuduiaz.j-.zdrkuNouqsaaboxurztorqoauxznfurqoucrdbac
uuuuuudfxubfrzurqoucraoorkuXakuVzarbvoaudfxuMdcjoapbggounoaoucrbgg
uuuuuupbcbmgoudmzsrurnzuqsfxaoxuydaxcudqodxuziuscubfurqouxbao.rbzfuzi
uuuuuuZhizaxuCraoork

uuuuuu“CqdgguBuasfuzfudfxucrz urqov?”

uuuuuu“Fzruizaurqounzagx,uvyuxodauNdrczfkuBudvu oaio.rgyucdrbciboxunbrq
uuuuuuyzsau.zv dfyubiuyzsunbggurzgoadrouvbfokuZsauiabofxcudaounbco,uiza
uuuuuubrubcu.oardbfgyudupoayuibfouvzafbftuizaudundgjk”

uuuuuuQouesb.jofoxuqbcu d.ousfrbgunouqdxuxo.aodcoxurqouxbcrdf.ounqb.q
uuuuuuxbpbxoxuscumyudmzsruqdgikuRqof,ucrbggujoo bftuduqsfxaoxuydaxc
uuuuuumoqbfx,unouizggznoxubfrzuZhizaxuCraoorudfxuczuxznfuAotofruCraoork
uuuuuuZf.ouzsauiabofxcucrz  oxudfxucrdaoxubfrzuducqz unbfxzn,us zf
uuuuuunqb.quQzgvocuxbxurqoucdvokuDfubfcrdfrudiroandaxcuqoutdpoudugbrrgo
uuuuuu.ayuziucdrbcid.rbzf,udfx,uizggznbfturqouxbao.rbzfuziuqbcuodtoa
uuuuuuoyoc,uBucdnurqdruduqdfczvu.dmunbrquduvdfubfcbxounqb.quqdxuqdgrox
uuuuuuzfurqouzrqoaucbxouziurqoucraoorundcufznu az.ooxbftucgzngyuzfndax
uuuuuudtdbfk

uuuuuu“Rqoao’cuzsauvdf,uNdrczf!u.zvoudgzft!uNo’gguqdpoudutzzxugzzjudr
uuuuuuqbv,ubiunou.dfuxzufzuvzaok”

uuuuuuDrurqdrubfcrdfruBundcudndaouziudumscqyumgd.jumodaxudfxudu dbauzi
uuuuuu boa.bftuoyocursafoxus zfuscurqazstqurqoucbxounbfxznuziurqou.dmk
uuuuuuBfcrdfrgyurqourad xzzaudrurqourz uigonus ,uczvorqbftundcuc.aodvox
uuuuuurzurqouxabpoa,udfxurqou.dmuigonuvdxgyuziiuxznfuAotofruCraoork
uuuuuuQzgvocugzzjoxuodtoagyuazsfxuizaudfzrqoa,umsrufzuov ryuzfoundcubf
uuuuuucbtqrkuRqofuqouxdcqoxubfunbgxu sacsbrudvbxurqoucraodvuziurqo
uuuuuuradiib.,umsrurqoucrdarundcurzzutaodr,udfxudgaodxyurqou.dmundcuzsr
uuuuuuziucbtqrk

uuuuuu“Rqoaoufzn!”ucdbxuQzgvocumbrroagyudcuqouovoatoxu dfrbftudfxunqbro
uuuuuunbrqupohdrbzfuiazvurqourbxouziupoqb.gocku“Ndcuopoaucs.qumdxugs.j
uuuuuudfxucs.qumdxuvdfdtovofr,urzz?uNdrczf,uNdrczf,ubiuyzsudaoudf
uuuuuuqzfocruvdfuyzsunbgguao.zaxurqbcudgczudfxucorubrudtdbfcruvy
uuuuuucs..occoc!”

uuuuuu“Nqzundcurqouvdf?”

uuuuuu“Buqdpoufzrudfubxodk”

uuuuuu“Duc y?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,ubrundcuopbxofruiazvunqdrunouqdpouqodaxurqdruMdcjoapbggo
uuuuuuqdcumoofupoayu.gzcogyucqdxznoxumyuczvozfoucbf.ouqouqdcumoofubf
uuuuuurznfkuQznuogcou.zsgxubrumoujfznfuczuesb.jgyurqdrubrundcurqo
uuuuuuFzarqsvmoagdfxuQzrogunqb.quqouqdxu.qzcof?uBiurqoyuqdxuizggznox
uuuuuuqbvurqouibacruxdyuBudatsoxurqdrurqoyunzsgxuizggznuqbvudgczurqo
uuuuuuco.zfxkuYzsuvdyuqdpouzmcoapoxurqdruBurnb.oucrazggoxuzpoaurzurqo
uuuuuunbfxznunqbgouXakuVzarbvoaundcuaodxbftuqbcugotofxk”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uBuaovovmoak”

uuuuuu“Bundcugzzjbftuzsruizaugzbroaoacubfurqoucraoor,umsruBucdnufzfok
uuuuuuNoudaouxodgbftunbrqudu.gopoauvdf,uNdrczfkuRqbcuvdrroau.srcupoay
uuuuuuxoo ,udfxurqzstquBuqdpoufzruibfdggyuvdxous uvyuvbfxunqorqoaubrubc
uuuuuudumofopzgofruzauduvdgopzgofrudtof.yunqb.qubcubfurzs.qunbrqusc,uB
uuuuuudvu.zfc.bzscudgndycuziu znoaudfxuxocbtfkuNqofuzsauiabofxcugoiruB
uuuuuudruzf.ouizggznoxurqovubfurqouqz ocuziuvdajbftuxznfurqoba
uuuuuubfpbcbmgoudrrofxdfrkuCzunbgyundcuqourqdruqouqdxufzrurascrox
uuuuuuqbvcogius zfuizzr,umsruqouqdxudpdbgoxuqbvcogiuziudu.dmuczurqdruqo
uuuuuu.zsgxugzbroaumoqbfxuzauxdcqu dcrurqovudfxuczuoc.d ourqobaufzrb.ok
uuuuuuQbcuvorqzxuqdxurqoudxxbrbzfdgudxpdfrdtourqdrubiurqoyunoaourzurdjo
uuuuuudu.dmuqoundcudgguaodxyurzuizggznurqovkuBruqdc,uqznopoa,uzfo
uuuuuuzmpbzscuxbcdxpdfrdtok”

uuuuuu“Bru srcuqbvubfurqou znoauziurqou.dmvdfk”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgyk”

uuuuuu“Nqdrudu bryunouxbxufzrutorurqoufsvmoa!”

uuuuuu“VyuxodauNdrczf,u.gsvcyudcuBuqdpoumoof,uyzsucsaogyuxzufzr
uuuuuucoabzscgyubvdtbfourqdruBufotgo.roxurzutorurqoufsvmoa?uFzku2704ubc
uuuuuuzsauvdfkuMsrurqdrubcufzuscourzuscuizaurqouvzvofrk”

uuuuuu“Buidbgurzucoouqznuyzsu.zsgxuqdpouxzfouvzaok”

uuuuuu“Zfuzmcoapbfturqou.dmuBucqzsgxuqdpoubfcrdfrgyursafoxudfxundgjox
uuuuuubfurqouzrqoauxbao.rbzfkuBucqzsgxurqofudruvyugobcsaouqdpouqbaoxud
uuuuuuco.zfxu.dmudfxuizggznoxurqouibacrudruduaoc o.risguxbcrdf.o,uza,
uuuuuumorroaucrbgg,uqdpouxabpofurzurqouFzarqsvmoagdfxuQzrogudfxundbrox
uuuuuurqoaokuNqofuzsausfjfznfuqdxuizggznoxuMdcjoapbggouqzvounoucqzsgx
uuuuuuqdpouqdxurqouz  zarsfbryuziu gdybftuqbcuznfutdvous zfuqbvcogiudfx
uuuuuucoobftunqoaouqouvdxouizakuDcubrubc,umyudfubfxbc.aooruodtoafocc,
uuuuuunqb.qundcurdjofudxpdfrdtouziunbrquohradzaxbfdayuesb.jfoccudfx
uuuuuuofoatyumyuzsauz  zfofr,unouqdpoumoradyoxuzsacogpocudfxugzcruzsa
uuuuuuvdfk”

uuuuuuNouqdxumoofucdsfroabftucgzngyuxznfuAotofruCraooruxsabfturqbc
uuuuuu.zfpoacdrbzf,udfxuXakuVzarbvoa,unbrquqbcu.zv dfbzf,uqdxugzft
uuuuuupdfbcqoxubfuiazfruziusck

uuuuuu“Rqoaoubcufzuzmwo.rubfuzsauizggznbfturqov,”ucdbxuQzgvocku“Rqo
uuuuuucqdxznuqdcuxo daroxudfxunbggufzruaorsafkuNouvscrucoounqdruisarqoa
uuuuuu.daxcunouqdpoubfuzsauqdfxcudfxu gdyurqovunbrquxo.bcbzfku.zsgxuyzs
uuuuuucnodaurzurqdruvdf’cuid.ounbrqbfurqou.dm?”

uuuuuu“Bu.zsgxucnodauzfgyurzurqoumodaxk”

uuuuuu“Dfxuczu.zsgxuB—iazvunqb.quButdrqoaurqdrubfudggu azmdmbgbryubr
uuuuuundcuduidgcouzfokuDu.gopoauvdfus zfuczuxogb.droudfuoaadfxuqdcufz
uuuuuuscouizaudumodaxucdpourzu.zf.odguqbcuiodrsaocku.zvoubfuqoao,
uuuuuuNdrczf!”

uuuuuuQoursafoxubfrzuzfouziurqouxbcrab.ruvoccoftoauziib.oc,unqoaouqo
uuuuuundcundavgyutaooroxumyurqouvdfdtoak

uuuuuu“Dq,uNbgczf,uBucoouyzsuqdpoufzruizatzrrofurqougbrrgou.dcoubf
uuuuuunqb.quBuqdxurqoutzzxuizarsfourzuqog uyzs?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ucba,ubfxooxuBuqdpoufzrkuYzsucdpoxuvyutzzxufdvo,udfxu oaqd c
uuuuuuvyugbiok”

uuuuuu“Vyuxodauioggzn,uyzsuohdttoadrokuBuqdpouczvouao.zggo.rbzf,
uuuuuuNbgczf,urqdruyzsuqdxudvzftuyzsaumzycudugdxufdvoxu.darnabtqr,unqz
uuuuuucqznoxuczvoudmbgbryuxsabfturqoubfpocrbtdrbzfk”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucba,uqoubcucrbggunbrqusck”

uuuuuu“.zsgxuyzsuabftuqbvus ?—rqdfjuyzs!uDfxuBucqzsgxumoutgdxurzuqdpo
uuuuuu.qdftouziurqbcuibpo- zsfxufzrok”

uuuuuuDugdxuziuizsaroof,unbrqudumabtqr,ujoofuid.o,uqdxuzmoyoxurqo
uuuuuucsvvzfcuziurqouvdfdtoakuQoucrzzxufznutdlbftunbrqutaodruaopoaof.o
uuuuuudrurqouidvzscuxoro.rbpok

uuuuuu“GoruvouqdpourqouQzroguXbao.rzay,”ucdbxuQzgvocku“Rqdfjuyzs!uFzn,
uuuuuu.darnabtqr,urqoaoudaourqoufdvocuziurnofry-rqaoouqzrogcuqoao,udgg
uuuuuubfurqoubvvoxbdroufobtqmzsaqzzxuziu.qdabftu.azcckuXzuyzsucoo?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucbak”

uuuuuu“Yzsunbggupbcbruod.quziurqocoubfursafk”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucbak”

uuuuuu“Yzsunbggumotbfubfuod.qu.dcoumyutbpbfturqouzsrcbxou zaroauzfo
uuuuuucqbggbftkuQoaoudaournofry-rqaooucqbggbftck”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucbak”

uuuuuu“Yzsunbggurogguqbvurqdruyzsundfrurzucoourqoundcro- d oauzi
uuuuuuyocroaxdykuYzsunbggucdyurqdrudfubv zardfrurogotadvuqdcuvbc.daabox
uuuuuudfxurqdruyzsudaougzzjbftuizaubrkuYzsusfxoacrdfx?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucbak”

uuuuuu“Msrunqdruyzsudaouaodggyugzzjbftuizaubcurqou.ofraou dtouziurqo
uuuuuu_Rbvoc_unbrquczvouqzgocu.srubfubrunbrquc.bcczackuQoaoubcudu.z y
uuuuuuziurqou_Rbvoc_kuBrubcurqbcu dtokuYzsu.zsgxuodcbgyuao.ztfbloubr,
uuuuuu.zsgxuyzsufzr?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucbak”

uuuuuu“Bfuod.qu.dcourqouzsrcbxou zaroaunbggucofxuizaurqouqdggu zaroa,
uuuuuurzunqzvudgczuyzsunbggutbpouducqbggbftkuQoaoudaournofry-rqaoo
uuuuuucqbggbftckuYzsunbggurqofugodafubfu zccbmgyurnofryu.dcocuzsruzi
uuuuuurqournofry-rqaoourqdrurqoundcrouziurqouxdyumoizaouqdcumoofumsafox
uuuuuuzauaovzpoxkuBfurqourqaoouzrqoau.dcocuyzsunbggumoucqznfuduqod uzi
uuuuuu d oaudfxuyzsunbggugzzjuizaurqbcu dtouziurqou_Rbvoc_udvzftubrk
uuuuuuRqouzxxcudaouofzavzscgyudtdbfcruyzsauibfxbftubrkuRqoaoudaourof
uuuuuucqbggbftcuzpoaubfu.dcouziuovoatof.bockuGoruvouqdpouduao zarumy
uuuuuunbaoudruMdjoauCraoorumoizaouopofbftkuDfxufzn,uNdrczf,ubruzfgy
uuuuuuaovdbfcuizauscurzuibfxuzsrumyunbaourqoubxofrbryuziurqou.dmvdf,
uuuuuuFzku2704,udfxurqofunounbgguxaz ubfrzuzfouziurqouMzfxuCraoor
uuuuuu b.rsaoutdggoabocudfxuibggubfurqourbvousfrbgunoudaouxsoudrurqo
uuuuuuqzrogk”



.qd roau5k

RqaoouMazjofuRqaodxc

uuuuuuCqoagz.juQzgvocuqdx,ubfudupoayuaovdajdmgouxotaoo,urqou znoauzi
uuuuuuxord.qbftuqbcuvbfxudrunbggkuIzaurnzuqzsacurqoucradftoumscbfoccubf
uuuuuunqb.qunouqdxumoofubfpzgpoxud  odaoxurzumouizatzrrof,udfxuqoundc
uuuuuuofrbaogyudmczamoxubfurqou b.rsaocuziurqouvzxoafuMogtbdfuvdcroack
uuuuuuQounzsgxurdgjuziufzrqbftumsrudar,uziunqb.quqouqdxurqou.asxocr
uuuuuubxodc,uiazvuzsaugodpbfturqoutdggoayusfrbgunouizsfxuzsacogpocudr
uuuuuurqouFzarqsvmoagdfxuQzrogk

uuuuuu“CbauQofayuMdcjoapbggoubcus crdbacuoh o.rbftuyzs,”ucdbxurqo
uuuuuu.goajku“Qoudcjoxuvourzucqznuyzsus udruzf.ounqofuyzsu.dvok”

uuuuuu“Qdpouyzsudfyuzmwo.rbzfurzuvyugzzjbftudruyzsauaotbcroa?”ucdbx
uuuuuuQzgvock

uuuuuu“Fzrubfurqougodcrk”

uuuuuuRqoumzzjucqznoxurqdrurnzufdvocuqdxumoofudxxoxudiroaurqdruzi
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggokuZfoundcuRqoz qbgscuWzqfczfudfxuidvbgy,uziuFon.dcrgo;
uuuuuurqouzrqoauVackuZgxvzaoudfxuvdbx,uziuQbtquGzxto,uDgrzfk

uuuuuu“CsaogyurqdruvscrumourqoucdvouWzqfczfunqzvuBuscoxurzujfzn,”ucdbx
uuuuuuQzgvocurzurqou zaroaku“Dugdnyoa,ubcuqoufzr,utaoy-qodxox,udfx
uuuuuundgjcunbrqudugbv ?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ucba,urqbcubcuVakuWzqfczf,urqou.zdg-znfoa,udupoayud.rbpo
uuuuuutofrgovdf,ufzruzgxoaurqdfuyzsacogik”

uuuuuu“Csaogyuyzsudaouvbcrdjofudmzsruqbcuradxo?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ucba!uqouqdcuscoxurqbcuqzroguizauvdfyuyodac,udfxuqoubcupoay
uuuuuunoggujfznfurzusck”

uuuuuu“Dq,urqdrucorrgocubrkuVackuZgxvzao,urzz;uBucoovurzuaovovmoaurqo
uuuuuufdvokuOh.scouvyu.sabzcbry,umsruzirofubfu.dggbftus zfuzfouiabofx
uuuuuuzfouibfxcudfzrqoak”

uuuuuu“Cqoubcudfubfpdgbxugdxy,ucbakuQoauqscmdfxundcuzf.ouvdyzauzi
uuuuuuTgzs.ocroakuCqoudgndycu.zvocurzuscunqofucqoubcubfurznfk”

uuuuuu“Rqdfjuyzs;uBudvudiadbxuBu.dffzru.gdbvuqoaud.esdbfrdf.okuNouqdpo
uuuuuuocrdmgbcqoxuduvzcrubv zardfruid.rumyurqocouesocrbzfc,uNdrczf,”uqo
uuuuuu.zfrbfsoxubfudugznupzb.oudcunounofrus crdbacurztorqoaku“Noujfzn
uuuuuufznurqdrurqou oz gounqzudaouczubfroaocroxubfuzsauiabofxuqdpoufzr
uuuuuucorrgoxuxznfubfuqbcuznfuqzrogkuRqdruvodfcurqdrunqbgourqoyudao,udc
uuuuuunouqdpoucoof,upoayudfhbzscurzundr.quqbv,urqoyudaouoesdggyudfhbzsc
uuuuuurqdruqoucqzsgxufzrucoourqovkuFzn,urqbcubcuduvzcrucsttocrbpo
uuuuuuid.rk”

uuuuuu“Nqdruxzocubrucsttocr?”

uuuuuu“Brucsttocrc—qdggzd,uvyuxodauioggzn,unqdruzfuodarqubcurqo
uuuuuuvdrroa?”

uuuuuuDcunou.dvouazsfxurqourz uziurqoucrdbacunouqdxuasfus udtdbfcruCba
uuuuuuQofayuMdcjoapbggouqbvcogikuQbcuid.oundcuigscqoxunbrqudftoa,udfx
uuuuuuqouqogxudfuzgxudfxuxscryumzzrubfuzfouziuqbcuqdfxckuCzuisabzscundc
uuuuuuqourqdruqoundcuqdaxgyudarb.sgdro,udfxunqofuqouxbxuc odjubrundcubf
uuuuuuduvs.qumazdxoaudfxuvzaouNocroafuxbdgo.rurqdfudfyunqb.qunouqdx
uuuuuuqodaxuiazvuqbvubfurqouvzafbftk

uuuuuu“Coovcurzuvourqoyudaou gdybftuvouizauducs.joaubfurqbcuqzrog,”uqo
uuuuuu.aboxku“Rqoy’gguibfxurqoy’poucrdaroxubfurzuvzfjoyunbrqurqounazft
uuuuuuvdfusfgoccurqoyudaou.daoisgkuMyurqsfxoa,ubiurqdru.qd u.df’ruibfx
uuuuuuvyuvbccbftumzzrurqoaounbggumourazsmgokuBu.dfurdjouduwzjounbrqurqo
uuuuuumocr,uVakuQzgvoc,umsrurqoy’poutzrudumbruzpoaurqouvdajurqbcurbvok”

uuuuuu“Crbggugzzjbftuizauyzsaumzzr?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucba,udfxuvodfurzuibfxubrk”

uuuuuu“Msr,ucsaogy,uyzsucdbxurqdrubrundcudufonumaznfumzzr?”

uuuuuu“Czubrundc,ucbakuDfxufznubr’cudfuzgxumgd.juzfok”

uuuuuu“Nqdr!uyzsuxzf’ruvodfurzucdy—?”

uuuuuu“Rqdr’cuwscrunqdruBuxzuvodfurzucdykuBuzfgyuqdxurqaoou dbacubfurqo
uuuuuunzagx—rqoufonumaznf,urqouzgxumgd.j,udfxurqou drofrugodrqoac,
uuuuuunqb.quBudvunodabftkuGdcrufbtqrurqoyurzzjuzfouziuvyumaznfuzfoc,
uuuuuudfxurzxdyurqoyuqdpoucfodjoxuzfouziurqoumgd.jkuNogg,uqdpouyzsutzr
uuuuuubr?uC odjuzsr,uvdf,udfxuxzf’rucrdfxucrdabft!”

uuuuuuDfudtbrdroxuToavdfundbroauqdxud  odaoxus zfurqouc.ofok

uuuuuu“Fz,ucba;uBuqdpouvdxoubfesbayudgguzpoaurqouqzrog,umsruBu.dfuqoda
uuuuuufzunzaxuziubrk”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uobrqoaurqdrumzzru.zvocumd.jumoizaoucsfxznfuzauB’ggucoourqo
uuuuuuvdfdtoaudfxurogguqbvurqdruButzuabtqrucradbtqruzsruziurqbcuqzrogk”

uuuuuu“Brucqdggumouizsfx,ucba—Bu azvbcouyzsurqdrubiuyzsunbgguqdpoud
uuuuuugbrrgou drbof.oubrunbggumouizsfxk”

uuuuuu“Vbfxubrubc,uizaubr’curqougdcrurqbftuziuvbfourqdruB’ggugzcoubf
uuuuuurqbcuxofuziurqbopockuNogg,unogg,uVakuQzgvoc,uyzs’gguoh.scouvy
uuuuuurazsmgbftuyzsudmzsrucs.qudurabigo—”

uuuuuu“Burqbfjubr’cunoggunzarqurazsmgbftudmzsrk”

uuuuuu“Nqy,uyzsugzzjupoayucoabzscuzpoaubrk”

uuuuuu“Qznuxzuyzsuoh gdbfubr?”

uuuuuu“Buwscruxzf’rudrrov rurzuoh gdbfubrkuBrucoovcurqoupoayuvdxxocr,
uuuuuuesooaocrurqbfturqdruopoauqd  ofoxurzuvok”

uuuuuu“Rqouesooaocru oaqd c—”ucdbxuQzgvocurqzstqrisggyk

uuuuuu“Nqdruxzuyzsuvdjouziubruyzsacogi?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uBuxzf’ru azioccurzusfxoacrdfxubruyorkuRqbcu.dcouziuyzsac
uuuuuubcupoayu.zv goh,uCbauQofaykuNqofurdjofubfu.zfwsf.rbzfunbrquyzsa
uuuuuusf.go’cuxodrquBudvufzrucsaourqdruziudggurqouibpouqsfxaoxu.dcocuzi
uuuuuu.d brdgubv zardf.ounqb.quBuqdpouqdfxgoxurqoaoubcuzfounqb.qu.src
uuuuuuczuxoo kuMsrunouqzgxucopoadgurqaodxcubfuzsauqdfxc,udfxurqouzxxc
uuuuuudaourqdruzfouzauzrqoauziurqovutsbxocuscurzurqourasrqkuNouvdy
uuuuuundcrourbvoubfuizggznbfturqounazftuzfo,umsruczzfoauzaugdroauno
uuuuuuvscru.zvous zfurqouabtqrk”

uuuuuuNouqdxudu godcdfrugsf.qozfubfunqb.qugbrrgoundcucdbxuziurqo
uuuuuumscbfoccunqb.quqdxumazstqruscurztorqoakuBrundcubfurqou abpdro
uuuuuucbrrbft-azzvurzunqb.qunoudiroandaxcuao dbaoxurqdruQzgvocudcjox
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggounqdrunoaouqbcubfrofrbzfck

uuuuuu“RzutzurzuMdcjoapbggouQdggk”

uuuuuu“Dfxunqof?”

uuuuuu“Drurqouofxuziurqounoojk”

uuuuuu“Zfurqounqzgo,”ucdbxuQzgvoc,u“Burqbfjurqdruyzsauxo.bcbzfubcud
uuuuuunbcouzfokuBuqdpoudv gouopbxof.ourqdruyzsudaoumobftuxzttoxubf
uuuuuuGzfxzf,udfxudvbxurqouvbggbzfcuziurqbcutaodru.bryubrubcuxbiib.sgr
uuuuuurzuxbc.zpoaunqzurqocou oz goudaouzaunqdrurqobauzmwo.ru.dfumokuBi
uuuuuurqobaubfrofrbzfcudaouopbgurqoyuvbtqruxzuyzsuduvbc.qboi,udfxuno
uuuuuucqzsgxumou znoagoccurzu aopofrubrkuYzsuxbxufzrujfzn,uXak
uuuuuuVzarbvoa,urqdruyzsunoaouizggznoxurqbcuvzafbftuiazvuvyuqzsco?”

uuuuuuXakuVzarbvoaucrdaroxupbzgofrgyku“Izggznox!uMyunqzv?”

uuuuuu“Rqdr,usfizarsfdrogy,ubcunqdruBu.dffzrurogguyzskuQdpouyzsudvzft
uuuuuuyzsaufobtqmzsacuzaud.esdbfrdf.ocuzfuXdarvzzaudfyuvdfunbrqud
uuuuuumgd.j,uisggumodax?”

uuuuuu“Fz—za,ugoruvoucoo—nqy,uyockuMdaayvzao,uCbau.qdagoc’cumsrgoa,ubc
uuuuuuduvdfunbrquduisgg,umgd.jumodaxk”

uuuuuu“Qd!uNqoaoubcuMdaayvzao?”

uuuuuu“Qoubcubfu.qdatouziurqouQdggk”

uuuuuu“Nouqdxumocrudc.oardbfubiuqoubcuaodggyurqoao,uzaubiumyudfy
uuuuuu zccbmbgbryuqouvbtqrumoubfuGzfxzfk”

uuuuuu“Qznu.dfuyzsuxzurqdr?”

uuuuuu“Tbpouvoudurogotad quizavku‘BcudgguaodxyuizauCbauQofay?’uRqdr
uuuuuunbgguxzkuDxxaoccurzuVakuMdaayvzao,uMdcjoapbggouQdggkuNqdrubcurqo
uuuuuufodaocrurogotad q-ziib.o?uTabv ofkuPoayutzzx,unounbggucofxud
uuuuuuco.zfxunbaourzurqou zcrvdcroa,uTabv of:u‘RogotadvurzuVak
uuuuuuMdaayvzaourzumouxogbpoaoxubfrzuqbcuznfuqdfxkuBiudmcofr,u godco
uuuuuuaorsafunbaourzuCbauQofayuMdcjoapbggo,uFzarqsvmoagdfxuQzrogk’uRqdr
uuuuuucqzsgxugoruscujfznumoizaouopofbftunqorqoauMdaayvzaoubcudruqbc
uuuuuu zcrubfuXopzfcqbaouzaufzrk”

uuuuuu“Rqdr’cucz,”ucdbxuMdcjoapbggoku“Myurqoundy,uXakuVzarbvoa,unqzubc
uuuuuurqbcuMdaayvzao,udfyqzn?”

uuuuuu“Qoubcurqouczfuziurqouzgxu.daordjoa,unqzubcuxodxkuRqoyuqdpo
uuuuuugzzjoxudiroaurqouQdgguizauizsautofoadrbzfcufznkuCzuidaudcuBujfzn,
uuuuuuqoudfxuqbcunbioudaoudcuaoc o.rdmgoudu.zs goudcudfyubfurqo
uuuuuu.zsfryk”

uuuuuu“Drurqoucdvourbvo,”ucdbxuMdcjoapbggo,u“br’cu.godauofzstqurqdrucz
uuuuuugzftudcurqoaoudaoufzfouziurqouidvbgyudrurqouQdggurqocou oz go
uuuuuuqdpouduvbtqryuibfouqzvoudfxufzrqbfturzuxzk”

uuuuuu“Rqdrubcurasok”

uuuuuu“XbxuMdaayvzaou azibrudrudggumyuCbau.qdagoc’cunbgg?”udcjox
uuuuuuQzgvock

uuuuuu“Qoudfxuqbcunbiouqdxuibpouqsfxaoxu zsfxcuod.qk”

uuuuuu“Qd!uXbxurqoyujfznurqdrurqoyunzsgxuao.obpourqbc?”

uuuuuu“Yoc;uCbau.qdagocundcupoayuizfxuziurdgjbftudmzsrurqou azpbcbzfc
uuuuuuziuqbcunbggk”

uuuuuu“Rqdrubcupoayubfroaocrbftk”

uuuuuu“Buqz o,”ucdbxuXakuVzarbvoa,u“rqdruyzsuxzufzrugzzjunbrq
uuuuuucsc b.bzscuoyocus zfuopoayzfounqzuao.obpoxudugotd.yuiazvuCba
uuuuuu.qdagoc,uizauBudgczuqdxudurqzscdfxu zsfxcugoirurzuvok”

uuuuuu“Bfxoox!uDfxudfyzfouogco?”

uuuuuu“Rqoaounoaouvdfyubfcbtfbib.dfrucsvcurzubfxbpbxsdgc,udfxudugdato
uuuuuufsvmoauziu smgb.u.qdabrbockuRqouaocbxsoudggunofrurzuCbauQofayk”

uuuuuu“Dfxuqznuvs.qundcurqouaocbxso?”

uuuuuu“Copofuqsfxaoxudfxuizaryurqzscdfxu zsfxck”

uuuuuuQzgvocuadbcoxuqbcuoyomazncubfucsa abcoku“Buqdxufzubxodurqdrucz
uuuuuutbtdfrb.uducsvundcubfpzgpox,”ucdbxuqok

uuuuuu“Cbau.qdagocuqdxurqouao srdrbzfuziumobftuab.q,umsrunouxbxufzr
uuuuuujfznuqznupoayuab.quqoundcusfrbgunou.dvourzuohdvbfouqbc
uuuuuuco.sabrbockuRqourzrdgupdgsouziurqouocrdroundcu.gzcouzfurzud
uuuuuuvbggbzfk”

uuuuuu“Xodauvo!uBrubcuducrdjouizaunqb.quduvdfuvbtqrunoggu gdyud
uuuuuuxoc oadroutdvokuDfxuzfouvzaouesocrbzf,uXakuVzarbvoakuCs  zcbft
uuuuuurqdrudfyrqbftuqd  ofoxurzuzsauyzsftuiabofxuqoao—yzsunbgguizatbpo
uuuuuurqousf godcdfruqy zrqocbc!—nqzunzsgxubfqoabrurqouocrdro?”

uuuuuu“Cbf.ouAzxtoauMdcjoapbggo,uCbau.qdagoc’cuyzsftoaumazrqoauxbox
uuuuuusfvdaabox,urqouocrdrounzsgxuxoc.ofxurzurqouXocvzfxc,unqzudao
uuuuuuxbcrdfru.zscbfckuWdvocuXocvzfxubcudfuogxoagyu.goatyvdfubf
uuuuuuNocrvzaogdfxk”

uuuuuu“RqdfjuyzskuRqocouxordbgcudaoudgguziutaodrubfroaocrkuQdpouyzsuvor
uuuuuuVakuWdvocuXocvzfx?”

uuuuuu“Yoc;uqouzf.ou.dvouxznfurzupbcbruCbau.qdagockuQoubcuduvdfuzi
uuuuuupofoadmgoud  odadf.oudfxuziucdbfrgyugbiokuBuaovovmoaurqdruqo
uuuuuuaoiscoxurzud..o rudfyucorrgovofruiazvuCbau.qdagoc,urqzstquqo
uuuuuu aoccoxubrus zfuqbvk”

uuuuuu“Dfxurqbcuvdfuziucbv gourdcrocunzsgxumourqouqobaurzuCbau.qdagoc’c
uuuuuurqzscdfxck”

uuuuuu“Qounzsgxumourqouqobaurzurqouocrdroumo.dscourqdrubcuofrdbgoxkuQo
uuuuuunzsgxudgczumourqouqobaurzurqouvzfoyusfgoccubrunoaounbggox
uuuuuuzrqoanbcoumyurqou aocofruznfoa,unqzu.df,uziu.zsaco,uxzunqdruqo
uuuuuugbjocunbrqubrk”

uuuuuu“Dfxuqdpouyzsuvdxouyzsaunbgg,uCbauQofay?”

uuuuuu“Fz,uVakuQzgvoc,uBuqdpoufzrkuB’pouqdxufzurbvo,uizaubrundcuzfgy
uuuuuuyocroaxdyurqdruBugodafoxuqznuvdrroacucrzzxkuMsrubfudfyu.dcouB
uuuuuuioogurqdrurqouvzfoyucqzsgxutzunbrqurqourbrgoudfxuocrdrokuRqdrundc
uuuuuuvyu zzausf.go’cubxodkuQznubcurqouznfoautzbfturzuaocrzaourqo
uuuuuutgzabocuziurqouMdcjoapbggocubiuqouqdcufzruvzfoyuofzstqurzujoo us 
uuuuuurqou az oary?uQzsco,ugdfx,udfxuxzggdacuvscrutzurztorqoak”

uuuuuu“EsbrouczkuNogg,uCbauQofay,uBudvuziuzfouvbfxunbrquyzsudcurzurqo
uuuuuudxpbcdmbgbryuziuyzsautzbftuxznfurzuXopzfcqbaounbrqzsruxogdyk
uuuuuuRqoaoubcuzfgyuzfou azpbcbzfunqb.quBuvscruvdjokuYzsu.oardbfgyuvscr
uuuuuufzrutzudgzfok”

uuuuuu“XakuVzarbvoauaorsafcunbrquvok”

uuuuuu“MsruXakuVzarbvoauqdcuqbcu ad.rb.ourzudrrofxurz,udfxuqbcuqzscoubc
uuuuuuvbgocudndyuiazvuyzsackuNbrqudggurqoutzzxnbggubfurqounzagxuqouvdy
uuuuuumousfdmgourzuqog uyzskuFz,uCbauQofay,uyzsuvscrurdjounbrquyzs
uuuuuuczvozfo,udurascryuvdf,unqzunbggumoudgndycumyuyzsaucbxok”

uuuuuu“Bcubru zccbmgourqdruyzsu.zsgxu.zvouyzsacogi,uVakuQzgvoc?”

uuuuuu“Biuvdrroacu.dvourzudu.abcbcuBucqzsgxuofxodpzsaurzumou aocofrubf
uuuuuu oaczf;umsruyzsu.dfusfxoacrdfxurqdr,unbrquvyuohrofcbpou.zfcsgrbft
uuuuuu ad.rb.oudfxunbrqurqou.zfcrdfrud  odgcunqb.quaod.quvouiazvuvdfy
uuuuuuesdaroac,ubrubcubv zccbmgouizauvourzumoudmcofruiazvuGzfxzfuizaudf
uuuuuubfxoibfbrourbvokuDrurqou aocofrubfcrdfruzfouziurqouvzcruaopoaox
uuuuuufdvocubfuOftgdfxubcumobftumocvba.qoxumyudumgd.jvdbgoa,udfxuzfgyuB
uuuuuu.dfucrz uduxbcdcrazscuc.dfxdgkuYzsunbggucoouqznubv zccbmgoubrubc
uuuuuuizauvourzutzurzuXdarvzzak”

uuuuuu“Nqzvunzsgxuyzsuao.zvvofx,urqof?”

uuuuuuQzgvocugdbxuqbcuqdfxus zfuvyudavku“Biuvyuiabofxunzsgxusfxoardjo
uuuuuubrurqoaoubcufzuvdfunqzubcumorroaunzarquqdpbftudruyzsaucbxounqof
uuuuuuyzsudaoubfudurbtqru gd.okuFzuzfou.dfucdyuczuvzaou.zfibxofrgyurqdf
uuuuuuBk”

uuuuuuRqou az zcbrbzfurzzjuvou.zv gorogyumyucsa abco,umsrumoizaouBuqdx
uuuuuurbvourzudfcnoa,uMdcjoapbggoucobloxuvoumyurqouqdfxudfxunasftubr
uuuuuuqodarbgyk

uuuuuu“Nogg,ufzn,urqdrubcuaodgujbfxuziuyzs,uXakuNdrczf,”ucdbxuqoku“Yzs
uuuuuucoouqznubrubcunbrquvo,udfxuyzsujfznuwscrudcuvs.qudmzsrurqouvdrroa
uuuuuudcuBuxzkuBiuyzsunbggu.zvouxznfurzuMdcjoapbggouQdggudfxucoouvo
uuuuuurqazstquB’ggufopoauizatorubrk”

uuuuuuRqou azvbcouziudxpofrsaouqdxudgndycuduidc.bfdrbzfuizauvo,udfxuB
uuuuuundcu.zv gbvofroxumyurqounzaxcuziuQzgvocudfxumyurqouodtoafoccunbrq
uuuuuunqb.qurqoumdazforuqdbgoxuvoudcudu.zv dfbzfk

uuuuuu“Bunbggu.zvo,unbrqu godcsao,”ucdbxuBku“BuxzufzrujfznuqznuBu.zsgx
uuuuuuov gzyuvyurbvoumorroak”

uuuuuu“Dfxuyzsunbgguao zarupoayu.daoisggyurzuvo,”ucdbxuQzgvocku“Nqofud
uuuuuu.abcbcu.zvoc,udcubrunbgguxz,uBunbgguxbao.ruqznuyzsucqdggud.rkuB
uuuuuucs  zcourqdrumyuCdrsaxdyudgguvbtqrumouaodxy?”

uuuuuu“NzsgxurqdrucsbruXakuNdrczf?”

uuuuuu“ oaio.rgyk”

uuuuuu“RqofuzfuCdrsaxdy,usfgoccuyzsuqodaurzurqou.zfraday,unoucqdgguvoor
uuuuuudrurqourof-rqbaryuradbfuiazvu dxxbftrzfk”

uuuuuuNouqdxuabcofurzuxo darunqofuMdcjoapbggoutdpoudu.ayuziurabsv q,
uuuuuudfxuxbpbftubfrzuzfouziurqou.zafoacuziurqouazzvuqouxaonudumaznf
uuuuuumzzruiazvusfxoaudu.dmbfork

uuuuuu“Vyuvbccbftumzzr!”uqou.aboxk

uuuuuu“Vdyudgguzsauxbiib.sgrbocupdfbcqudcuodcbgy!”ucdbxuCqoagz.j
uuuuuuQzgvock

uuuuuu“Msrubrubcudupoayucbftsgdaurqbft,”uXakuVzarbvoauaovdajoxku“B
uuuuuucoda.qoxurqbcuazzvu.daoisggyumoizaougsf.qk”

uuuuuu“DfxuczuxbxuB,”ucdbxuMdcjoapbggoku“Opoayubf.quziubrk”

uuuuuu“Rqoaoundcu.oardbfgyufzumzzrubfubrurqofk”

uuuuuu“Bfurqdru.dcourqoundbroauvscruqdpou gd.oxubrurqoaounqbgounounoao
uuuuuugsf.qbftk”

uuuuuuRqouToavdfundcucofruizaumsru azioccoxurzujfznufzrqbftuziurqo
uuuuuuvdrroa,ufzau.zsgxudfyubfesbayu.godaubrus kuDfzrqoaubrovuqdxumoof
uuuuuudxxoxurzurqdru.zfcrdfrudfxud  daofrgyu sa zcogoccucoabocuziucvdgg
uuuuuuvycroabocunqb.quqdxucs..ooxoxuod.quzrqoauczuad bxgykuCorrbft
uuuuuudcbxourqounqzgoutabvucrzayuziuCbau.qdagoc’cuxodrq,unouqdxudugbfo
uuuuuuziubfoh gb.dmgoubf.bxofrcudggunbrqbfurqougbvbrcuziurnzuxdyc,
uuuuuunqb.qubf.gsxoxurqouao.ob ruziurqou abfroxugorroa,urqo
uuuuuumgd.j-modaxoxuc yubfurqouqdfczv,urqougzccuziurqoufonumaznfumzzr,
uuuuuurqougzccuziurqouzgxumgd.jumzzr,udfxufznurqouaorsafuziurqoufon
uuuuuumaznfumzzrkuQzgvocucdrubfucbgof.oubfurqou.dmudcunouxazpoumd.jurz
uuuuuuMdjoauCraoor,udfxuBujfonuiazvuqbcuxadnfumazncudfxujoofuid.ourqdr
uuuuuuqbcuvbfx,ugbjouvyuznf,undcumscyubfuofxodpzsabfturzuiadvouczvo
uuuuuuc.qovoubfrzunqb.qudggurqocoucradftoudfxud  daofrgyuxbc.zffo.rox
uuuuuuo bczxocu.zsgxumouibrroxkuDggudiroafzzfudfxugdroubfrzurqouopofbft
uuuuuuqoucdrugzcrubfurzmd..zudfxurqzstqrk

uuuuuuWscrumoizaouxbffoaurnzurogotadvcunoaouqdfxoxubfkuRqouibacruadf:

uuuuuuQdpouwscruqodaxurqdruMdaayvzaoubcudrurqouQdggkuMDCJOAPBGGOk

uuuuuuRqouco.zfx:

uuuuuuPbcbroxurnofry-rqaoouqzrogcudcuxbao.rox,umsruczaayurzuao zar
uuuuuusfdmgourzurad.ou.srucqooruziu_Rbvoc_ku.DARNABTQRk

uuuuuu“Rqoaoutzurnzuziuvyurqaodxc,uNdrczfkuRqoaoubcufzrqbftuvzao
uuuuuucrbvsgdrbfturqdfudu.dcounqoaouopoayrqbftutzocudtdbfcruyzskuNo
uuuuuuvscru.dcruazsfxuizaudfzrqoauc.ofrk”

uuuuuu“Nouqdpoucrbggurqou.dmvdfunqzuxazpourqouc yk”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgykuBuqdpounbaoxurzutoruqbcufdvoudfxudxxaoccuiazvurqo
uuuuuuZiib.bdguAotbcraykuBucqzsgxufzrumoucsa abcoxubiurqbcunoaoudf
uuuuuudfcnoaurzuvyuesocrbzfk”

uuuuuuRqouabftudrurqoumoggu azpoxurzumouczvorqbftuopofuvzao
uuuuuucdrbcid.rzayurqdfudfudfcnoa,uqznopoa,uizaurqouxzzauz ofoxudfxud
uuuuuuazstq-gzzjbftuioggznuofroaoxunqzundcuopbxofrgyurqouvdfuqbvcogik

uuuuuu“Butzruduvoccdtouiazvurqouqodxuziib.ourqdrudutofrudrurqbcudxxaocc
uuuuuuqdxumoofubfesbabftuizauFzku2704,”ucdbxuqoku“B’pouxabpofuvyu.dm
uuuuuurqbcucopofuyodacudfxufopoaudunzaxuziu.zv gdbfrkuBu.dvouqoao
uuuuuucradbtqruiazvurqouYdaxurzudcjuyzsurzuyzsauid.ounqdruyzsuqdx
uuuuuudtdbfcruvok”

uuuuuu“Buqdpoufzrqbftubfurqounzagxudtdbfcruyzs,uvyutzzxuvdf,”ucdbx
uuuuuuQzgvocku“Zfurqou.zfraday,uBuqdpouqdgiuduczpoaobtfuizauyzsubiuyzs
uuuuuunbggutbpouvoudu.godaudfcnoaurzuvyuesocrbzfck”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uB’pouqdxudutzzxuxdyudfxufzuvbcrdjo,”ucdbxurqou.dmvdfunbrq
uuuuuudutabfku“Nqdrundcubruyzsundfroxurzudcj,ucba?”

uuuuuu“Ibacruziudgguyzsaufdvoudfxudxxaocc,ubfu.dcouBundfruyzsudtdbfk”

uuuuuu“Wzqfu.gdyrzf,u3uRsa oyuCraoor,urqouMzazstqkuVyu.dmubcuzsruzi
uuuuuuCqb goy’cuYdax,ufodauNdroagzzuCrdrbzfk”

uuuuuuCqoagz.juQzgvocuvdxoudufzrouziubrk

uuuuuu“Fzn,u.gdyrzf,urogguvoudggudmzsrurqouidaounqzu.dvoudfxundr.qox
uuuuuurqbcuqzscoudrurofuz’.gz.jurqbcuvzafbftudfxudiroandaxcuizggznox
uuuuuurqournzutofrgovofuxznfuAotofruCraoork”

uuuuuuRqouvdfugzzjoxucsa abcoxudfxudugbrrgouovmdaadccoxku“Nqy,urqoao’c
uuuuuufzutzzxuvyuroggbftuyzsurqbftc,uizauyzsucoovurzujfznudcuvs.qudcuB
uuuuuuxzudgaodxy,”ucdbxuqoku“Rqourasrqubcurqdrurqoutofrgovdfurzgxuvo
uuuuuurqdruqoundcuduxoro.rbpoudfxurqdruBundcurzucdyufzrqbftudmzsruqbv
uuuuuurzudfyzfok”

uuuuuu“Vyutzzxuioggzn;urqbcubcudupoayucoabzscumscbfocc,udfxuyzsuvdy
uuuuuuibfxuyzsacogiubfudu aorryumdxu zcbrbzfubiuyzsurayurzuqbxo
uuuuuudfyrqbftuiazvuvokuYzsucdyurqdruyzsauidaourzgxuyzsurqdruqoundcud
uuuuuuxoro.rbpo?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uqouxbxk”

uuuuuu“Nqofuxbxuqoucdyurqbc?”

uuuuuu“Nqofuqougoiruvok”

uuuuuu“Xbxuqoucdyudfyrqbftuvzao?”

uuuuuu“Qouvofrbzfoxuqbcufdvok”

uuuuuuQzgvocu.dcruducnbirutgdf.ouziurabsv qudruvoku“Zq,uqouvofrbzfox
uuuuuuqbcufdvo,uxbxuqo?uRqdrundcubv asxofrkuNqdrundcurqoufdvourqdruqo
uuuuuuvofrbzfox?”

uuuuuu“Qbcufdvo,”ucdbxurqou.dmvdf,u“ndcuVakuCqoagz.juQzgvock”

uuuuuuFopoauqdpouBucoofuvyuiabofxuvzaou.zv gorogyurdjofudmd.jurqdfumy
uuuuuurqou.dmvdf’cuao gykuIzaudfubfcrdfruqoucdrubfucbgofrudvdlovofrk
uuuuuuRqofuqoumsacrubfrzuduqodaryugdstqk

uuuuuu“Durzs.q,uNdrczf—dfusfxofbdmgourzs.q!”ucdbxuqoku“Buiooguduizbgudc
uuuuuuesb.judfxucs  goudcuvyuznfkuQoutzruqzvous zfuvoupoayu aorrbgy
uuuuuurqdrurbvokuCzuqbcufdvoundcuCqoagz.juQzgvoc,undcubr?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucba,urqdrundcurqoutofrgovdf’cufdvok”

uuuuuu“Oh.oggofr!uRogguvounqoaouyzsu b.joxuqbvus udfxudggurqdr
uuuuuuz..saaoxk”

uuuuuu“Qouqdbgoxuvoudruqdgi- dcrufbfoubfuRadidgtdauCesdaokuQoucdbxurqdr
uuuuuuqoundcuduxoro.rbpo,udfxuqouziioaoxuvournzutsbfodcubiuBunzsgxuxz
uuuuuuohd.rgyunqdruqoundfroxudgguxdyudfxudcjufzuesocrbzfckuBundcutgdx
uuuuuuofzstqurzudtaookuIbacrunouxazpouxznfurzurqouFzarqsvmoagdfxuQzrog
uuuuuudfxundbroxurqoaousfrbgurnzutofrgovofu.dvouzsrudfxurzzjudu.dmuiazv
uuuuuurqouadfjkuNouizggznoxurqobau.dmusfrbgubru sggoxus uczvonqoaoufoda
uuuuuuqoaok”

uuuuuu“Rqbcupoayuxzza,”ucdbxuQzgvock

uuuuuu“Nogg,uBu.zsgxf’rumoucsaouziurqdr,umsruBuxdaoucdyuvyuidaoujfon
uuuuuudggudmzsrubrkuNou sggoxus uqdgindyuxznfurqoucraoorudfxundbroxudf
uuuuuuqzsaudfxuduqdgikuRqofurqournzutofrgovofu dccoxusc,undgjbft,udfx
uuuuuunouizggznoxuxznfuMdjoauCraoorudfxudgzft—”

uuuuuu“Bujfzn,”ucdbxuQzgvock

uuuuuu“Sfrbgunoutzrurqaoo-esdaroacuxznfuAotofruCraoorkuRqofuvy
uuuuuutofrgovdfurqaonus urqourad ,udfxuqou.aboxurqdruBucqzsgxuxabpo
uuuuuuabtqrudndyurzuNdroagzzuCrdrbzfudcuqdaxudcuBu.zsgxutzkuBunqb  ox
uuuuuus urqouvdaoudfxunounoaourqoaousfxoaurqourofuvbfsrockuRqofuqou dbx
uuuuuus uqbcurnzutsbfodc,ugbjoudutzzxuzfo,udfxudndyuqounofrubfrzurqo
uuuuuucrdrbzfkuZfgyuwscrudcuqoundcugodpbftuqoursafoxuazsfxudfxuqoucdbx:
uuuuuu‘BruvbtqrubfroaocruyzsurzujfznurqdruyzsuqdpoumoofuxabpbftuVak
uuuuuuCqoagz.juQzgvock’uRqdr’cuqznuBu.zvourzujfznurqoufdvok”

uuuuuu“BucookuDfxuyzsucdnufzuvzaouziuqbv?”

uuuuuu“Fzrudiroauqounofrubfrzurqoucrdrbzfk”

uuuuuu“Dfxuqznunzsgxuyzsuxoc.abmouVakuCqoagz.juQzgvoc?”

uuuuuuRqou.dmvdfuc.adr.qoxuqbcuqodxku“Nogg,uqoundcf’rudgrztorqoaucs.q
uuuuuudfuodcyutofrgovdfurzuxoc.abmokuB’xu sruqbvudruizaryuyodacuziudto,
uuuuuudfxuqoundcuziuduvbxxgouqobtqr,urnzuzaurqaooubf.qocucqzaroaurqdf
uuuuuuyzs,ucbakuQoundcuxaoccoxugbjoudurzii,udfxuqouqdxudumgd.jumodax,
uuuuuu.srucesdaoudrurqouofx,udfxudu dgouid.okuBuxzf’rujfznudcuBu.zsgx
uuuuuucdyuvzaourqdfurqdrk”

uuuuuu“.zgzsauziuqbcuoyoc?”

uuuuuu“Fz,uBu.df’rucdyurqdrk”

uuuuuu“Fzrqbftuvzaourqdruyzsu.dfuaovovmoa?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ucba;ufzrqbftk”

uuuuuu“Nogg,urqof,uqoaoubcuyzsauqdgi-czpoaobtfkuRqoao’cudfzrqoauzfo
uuuuuundbrbftuizauyzsubiuyzsu.dfumabftudfyuvzaoubfizavdrbzfk
uuuuuuTzzx-fbtqr!”

uuuuuu“Tzzx-fbtqr,ucba,udfxurqdfjuyzs!”

uuuuuuWzqfu.gdyrzfuxo daroxu.qs.jgbft,udfxuQzgvocursafoxurzuvounbrqud
uuuuuucqastuziuqbcucqzsgxoacudfxuduasoisgucvbgok

uuuuuu“Cfd utzocuzsaurqbaxurqaodx,udfxunouofxunqoaounoumotdf,”ucdbxuqok
uuuuuu“Rqou.sffbftuadc.dg!uQoujfonuzsaufsvmoa,ujfonurqdruCbauQofay
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggouqdxu.zfcsgroxuvo,uc zrroxunqzuBundcubfuAotofruCraoor,
uuuuuu.zfwo.rsaoxurqdruBuqdxutzrurqoufsvmoauziurqou.dmudfxunzsgxugdyuvy
uuuuuuqdfxcuzfurqouxabpoa,udfxuczucofrumd.jurqbcudsxd.bzscuvoccdtokuB
uuuuuurogguyzs,uNdrczf,urqbcurbvounouqdpoutzruduizovdfunqzubcunzarqyuzi
uuuuuuzsaucroogkuB’poumoofu.qo.jvdroxubfuGzfxzfkuBu.dfuzfgyunbcquyzs
uuuuuumorroaugs.jubfuXopzfcqbaokuMsruB’vufzruodcyubfuvyuvbfxudmzsrubrk”

uuuuuu“Dmzsrunqdr?”

uuuuuu“DmzsrucofxbftuyzskuBr’cudfustgyumscbfocc,uNdrczf,udfustgy
uuuuuuxdftoazscumscbfocc,udfxurqouvzaouBucoouziubrurqougoccuBugbjoubrk
uuuuuuYoc,uvyuxodauioggzn,uyzsuvdyugdstq,umsruButbpouyzsuvyunzaxurqdruB
uuuuuucqdggumoupoayutgdxurzuqdpouyzsumd.jucdioudfxuczsfxubfuMdjoa
uuuuuuCraooruzf.ouvzaok”



.qd roau6k

MdcjoapbggouQdgg

uuuuuuCbauQofayuMdcjoapbggoudfxuXakuVzarbvoaunoaouaodxyus zfurqo
uuuuuud  zbfroxuxdy,udfxunoucrdaroxudcudaadftoxuizauXopzfcqbaokuVak
uuuuuuCqoagz.juQzgvocuxazpounbrquvourzurqoucrdrbzfudfxutdpouvouqbcugdcr
uuuuuu darbftubfwsf.rbzfcudfxudxpb.ok

uuuuuu“Bunbggufzrumbdcuyzsauvbfxumyucsttocrbfturqozabocuzaucsc b.bzfc,
uuuuuuNdrczf,”ucdbxuqo;u“Bunbcquyzsucbv gyurzuao zaruid.rcubfurqo
uuuuuuisggocru zccbmgouvdffoaurzuvo,udfxuyzsu.dfugodpouvourzuxzurqo
uuuuuurqozablbftk”

uuuuuu“Nqdruczaruziuid.rc?”uBudcjoxk

uuuuuu“Dfyrqbftunqb.quvdyucoovurzuqdpoudumodabftuqznopoaubfxbao.rus zf
uuuuuurqou.dco,udfxuoc o.bdggyurqouaogdrbzfcumornoofuyzsftuMdcjoapbggo
uuuuuudfxuqbcufobtqmzsacuzaudfyuiaocqu darb.sgdacu.zf.oafbfturqouxodrq
uuuuuuziuCbau.qdagockuBuqdpouvdxouczvoubfesbabocuvycogiubfurqougdcruion
uuuuuuxdyc,umsrurqouaocsgrcuqdpo,uBuioda,umoofufotdrbpokuZfourqbftuzfgy
uuuuuud  odacurzumou.oardbf,udfxurqdrubcurqdruVakuWdvocuXocvzfx,unqzubc
uuuuuurqoufohruqoba,ubcudfuogxoagyutofrgovdfuziudupoayudvbdmgo
uuuuuuxbc zcbrbzf,uczurqdrurqbcu oaco.srbzfuxzocufzrudabcouiazvuqbvkuB
uuuuuuaodggyurqbfjurqdrunouvdyuogbvbfdrouqbvuofrbaogyuiazvuzsa
uuuuuu.dg.sgdrbzfckuRqoaouaovdbfurqou oz gounqzunbggud.rsdggyucsaazsfx
uuuuuuCbauQofayuMdcjoapbggous zfurqouvzzak”

uuuuuu“Nzsgxubrufzrumounoggubfurqouibacru gd.ourzutoruabxuziurqbc
uuuuuuMdaayvzaou.zs go?”

uuuuuu“MyufzuvodfckuYzsu.zsgxufzruvdjoudutaodroauvbcrdjokuBiurqoyudao
uuuuuubffz.ofrubrunzsgxumoudu.asogubfwscrb.o,udfxubiurqoyudaoutsbgryuno
uuuuuucqzsgxumoutbpbftus udggu.qdf.ouziumabftbftubruqzvourzurqovkuFz,
uuuuuufz,unounbggu aocoapourqovus zfuzsaugbcruziucsc o.rckuRqofurqoao
uuuuuubcudutazzvudrurqouQdgg,ubiuBuaovovmoauabtqrkuRqoaoudaournz
uuuuuuvzzagdfxuidavoackuRqoaoubcuzsauiabofxuXakuVzarbvoa,unqzvuB
uuuuuumogbopourzumouofrbaogyuqzfocr,udfxurqoaoubcuqbcunbio,uziunqzvuno
uuuuuujfznufzrqbftkuRqoaoubcurqbcufdrsadgbcr,uCrd gorzf,udfxurqoaoubc
uuuuuuqbcucbcroa,unqzubcucdbxurzumouduyzsftugdxyuziudrrad.rbzfckuRqoao
uuuuuubcuVakuIadfjgdfx,uziuGdiroauQdgg,unqzubcudgczudfusfjfznfuid.rza,
uuuuuudfxurqoaoudaouzfouzaurnzuzrqoaufobtqmzsackuRqocoudaourqouizgjunqz
uuuuuuvscrumouyzsaupoayuc o.bdgucrsxyk”

uuuuuu“Bunbgguxzuvyumocrk”

uuuuuu“Yzsuqdpoudavc,uBucs  zco?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uBurqzstqrubrudcunoggurzurdjourqovk”

uuuuuu“Vzcru.oardbfgykuJoo uyzsauaopzgpoaufodauyzsufbtqrudfxuxdy,udfx
uuuuuufopoauaogdhuyzsau ao.dsrbzfck”

uuuuuuZsauiabofxcuqdxudgaodxyuco.saoxuduibacr-.gdccu.daabdtoudfxunoao
uuuuuundbrbftuizauscus zfurqou gdrizavk

uuuuuu“Fz,unouqdpoufzufoncuziudfyujbfx,”ucdbxuXakuVzarbvoaubfudfcnoaurz
uuuuuuvyuiabofx’cuesocrbzfcku“Bu.dfucnodaurzuzfourqbft,udfxurqdrubc
uuuuuurqdrunouqdpoufzrumoofucqdxznoxuxsabfturqougdcrurnzuxdyckuNouqdpo
uuuuuufopoautzfouzsrunbrqzsrujoo bftuducqda undr.q,udfxufzuzfou.zsgx
uuuuuuqdpouoc.d oxuzsaufzrb.ok”

uuuuuu“Yzsuqdpoudgndycujo rurztorqoa,uBu aocsvo?”

uuuuuu“Oh.o ruyocroaxdyudiroafzzfkuBuscsdggyutbpous uzfouxdyurzu sao
uuuuuudvscovofrunqofuBu.zvourzurznf,uczuBuc ofrubrudrurqouVscosvuziurqo
uuuuuu.zggotouziuCsatozfck”

uuuuuu“DfxuBunofrurzugzzjudrurqouizgjubfurqou daj,”ucdbxuMdcjoapbggok

uuuuuu“Msrunouqdxufzurazsmgouziudfyujbfxk”

uuuuuu“Brundcubv asxofr,udggurqoucdvo,”ucdbxuQzgvoc,ucqdjbftuqbcuqodx
uuuuuudfxugzzjbftupoayutadpoku“Bumot,uCbauQofay,urqdruyzsunbggufzrutz
uuuuuudmzsrudgzfokuCzvoutaodruvbcizarsfounbggumoidgguyzsubiuyzsuxzkuXbx
uuuuuuyzsutoruyzsauzrqoaumzzr?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ucba,ubrubcutzfouizaopoak”

uuuuuu“BfxooxkuRqdrubcupoayubfroaocrbftkuNogg,utzzx-myo,”uqoudxxoxudc
uuuuuurqouradbfumotdfurzutgbxouxznfurqou gdrizavku“Modaubfuvbfx,uCba
uuuuuuQofay,uzfouziurqou qadcocubfurqdruesooauzgxugotofxunqb.quXak
uuuuuuVzarbvoauqdcuaodxurzusc,udfxudpzbxurqouvzzaubfurqzcouqzsacuzi
uuuuuuxdajfoccunqofurqou znoacuziuopbgudaouohdgroxk”

uuuuuuBugzzjoxumd.judrurqou gdrizavunqofunouqdxugoirubruidaumoqbfxudfx
uuuuuucdnurqourdgg,udscroaouibtsaouziuQzgvocucrdfxbftuvzrbzfgoccudfx
uuuuuutdlbftudiroausck

uuuuuuRqouwzsafoyundcuducnbirudfxu godcdfruzfo,udfxuBuc ofrubrubf
uuuuuuvdjbfturqouvzaoubfrbvdroud.esdbfrdf.ouziuvyurnzu.zv dfbzfcudfxubf
uuuuuu gdybftunbrquXakuVzarbvoa’cuc dfbogkuBfudupoayuionuqzsacurqo
uuuuuumaznfuodarquqdxumo.zvouasxxy,urqoumab.juqdxu.qdftoxurzutadfbro,
uuuuuudfxuaoxu.zncutadloxubfunogg-qoxtoxuibogxcunqoaourqougscqutadccoc
uuuuuudfxuvzaougshsabdfrupotordrbzfuc zjouziuduab.qoa,ubiuduxdv oa,
uuuuuu.gbvdrokuYzsftuMdcjoapbggoucrdaoxuodtoagyuzsruziurqounbfxznudfx
uuuuuu.aboxudgzsxunbrquxogbtqrudcuqouao.ztfbloxurqouidvbgbdauiodrsaoc
uuuuuuziurqouXopzfuc.ofoayk

uuuuuu“B’poumoofuzpoaudutzzxu daruziurqounzagxucbf.ouBugoirubr,uXak
uuuuuuNdrczf,”ucdbxuqo;u“msruBuqdpoufopoaucoofudu gd.ourzu.zv daounbrq
uuuuuubrk”

uuuuuu“BufopoaucdnuduXopzfcqbaouvdfunqzuxbxufzrucnodaumyuqbcu.zsfry,”uB
uuuuuuaovdajoxk

uuuuuu“Bruxo ofxcus zfurqoumaooxuziuvofuesbroudcuvs.qudcuzfurqo
uuuuuu.zsfry,”ucdbxuXakuVzarbvoaku“Dutgdf.oudruzsauiabofxuqoaouaopodgc
uuuuuurqouazsfxoxuqodxuziurqou.ogr,unqb.qu.daabocubfcbxoubrurqou.ogrb.
uuuuuuofrqscbdcvudfxu znoauziudrrd.qvofrku zzauCbau.qdagoc’cuqodxundc
uuuuuuziudupoayuadaoury o,uqdgiuTdogb.,uqdgiuBpoafbdfubfubrc
uuuuuu.qdad.roabcrb.ckuMsruyzsunoaoupoayuyzsftunqofuyzsugdcrucdn
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggouQdgg,unoaouyzsufzr?”

uuuuuu“Bundcudumzyubfuvyuroofcudrurqourbvouziuvyuidrqoa’cuxodrqudfxuqdx
uuuuuufopoaucoofurqouQdgg,uizauqougbpoxubfudugbrrgou.zrrdtouzfurqo
uuuuuuCzsrqu.zdcrkuRqof.ouBunofrucradbtqrurzuduiabofxubfuDvoab.dkuB
uuuuuurogguyzsubrubcudggudcufonurzuvoudcubrubcurzuXakuNdrczf,udfxuB’v
uuuuuudcujoofudcu zccbmgourzucoourqouvzzak”

uuuuuu“Daouyzs?uRqofuyzsaunbcqubcuodcbgyutadfrox,uizaurqoaoubcuyzsa
uuuuuuibacrucbtqruziurqouvzza,”ucdbxuXakuVzarbvoa,u zbfrbftuzsruziurqo
uuuuuu.daabdtounbfxznk

uuuuuuZpoaurqoutaoofucesdaocuziurqouibogxcudfxurqougznu.sapouziudunzzx
uuuuuurqoaouazcoubfurqouxbcrdf.oudutaoy,uvogdf.qzgyuqbgg,unbrqud
uuuuuucradftouwdttoxucsvvbr,uxbvudfxupdtsoubfurqouxbcrdf.o,ugbjouczvo
uuuuuuidfrdcrb.ugdfxc.d oubfuduxaodvkuMdcjoapbggoucdruizaudugzfturbvo,
uuuuuuqbcuoyocuibhoxus zfubr,udfxuBuaodxus zfuqbcuodtoauid.ouqznuvs.q
uuuuuubruvodfrurzuqbv,urqbcuibacrucbtqruziurqdrucradftouc zrunqoaourqo
uuuuuuvofuziuqbcumgzzxuqdxuqogxucndyuczugzftudfxugoirurqobauvdajucz
uuuuuuxoo kuRqoaouqoucdr,unbrquqbcurnooxucsbrudfxuqbcuDvoab.dfud..ofr,
uuuuuubfurqou.zafoauziudu azcdb.uadbgndy-.daabdto,udfxuyorudcuBugzzjox
uuuuuudruqbcuxdajudfxuoh aoccbpouid.ouBuiogruvzaourqdfuopoauqznurasoud
uuuuuuxoc.ofxdfruqoundcuziurqdrugzftugbfouziuqbtq-mgzzxox,uiboay,udfx
uuuuuuvdcroaisguvofkuRqoaounoaou abxo,updgzsa,udfxucraoftrqubfuqbc
uuuuuurqb.jumaznc,uqbcucofcbrbpoufzcrabgc,udfxuqbcugdatouqdloguoyockuBi
uuuuuuzfurqdruizambxxbftuvzzauduxbiib.sgrudfxuxdftoazscuesocrucqzsgx
uuuuuugboumoizaousc,urqbcundcudrugodcrudu.zvadxouizaunqzvuzfouvbtqr
uuuuuupofrsaourzurdjouduabcjunbrqurqou.oardbfryurqdruqounzsgxumadpogy
uuuuuucqdaoubrk

uuuuuuRqouradbfu sggoxus udruducvdggundycbxoucrdrbzfudfxunoudgg
uuuuuuxoc.ofxoxkuZsrcbxo,umoyzfxurqougzn,unqbrouiof.o,udundtzforrounbrq
uuuuuudu dbauziu.zmcundcundbrbftkuZsau.zvbftundcuopbxofrgyudutaodr
uuuuuuopofr,uizaucrdrbzf-vdcroaudfxu zaroacu.gscroaoxuazsfxuscurzu.daay
uuuuuuzsruzsaugsttdtokuBrundcuducnoor,ucbv gou.zsfrayuc zr,umsruBundc
uuuuuucsa abcoxurzuzmcoapourqdrumyurqoutdrourqoaoucrzzxurnzuczgxboagy
uuuuuuvofubfuxdajusfbizavcunqzugodfoxus zfurqobaucqzaruabigocudfx
uuuuuutgdf.oxujoofgyudruscudcunou dccoxkuRqou.zd.qvdf,uduqdax-id.ox,
uuuuuutfdagoxugbrrgouioggzn,ucdgsroxuCbauQofayuMdcjoapbggo,udfxubfud
uuuuuuionuvbfsrocunounoaouigybftucnbirgyuxznfurqoumazdx,unqbrouazdxk
uuuuuuAzggbftu dcrsaougdfxcu.sapoxus ndaxuzfuobrqoaucbxouziusc,udfxuzgx
uuuuuutdmgoxuqzscocu oo oxuzsruiazvudvbxurqourqb.jutaoofuizgbdto,umsr
uuuuuumoqbfxurqou od.oisgudfxucsfgbru.zsfraycbxourqoaouazcouopoa,uxdaj
uuuuuudtdbfcrurqouopofbftucjy,urqougzft,utgzzvyu.sapouziurqouvzza,
uuuuuumazjofumyurqouwdttoxudfxucbfbcroauqbggck

uuuuuuRqoundtzforroucnsftuazsfxubfrzuducbxouazdx,udfxunou.sapoxus ndax
uuuuuurqazstquxoo ugdfocunzafumyu.ofrsabocuziunqoogc,uqbtqumdfjcuzf
uuuuuuobrqoaucbxo,uqodpyunbrquxab  bftuvzccudfxuigocqyuqdar’c-rzftso
uuuuuuioafckuMazflbftumad.jofudfxuvzrrgoxumadvmgoutgodvoxubfurqougbtqr
uuuuuuziurqoucbfjbftucsfkuCrbggucrodxbgyuabcbft,unou dccoxuzpoaud
uuuuuufdaaznutadfbroumabxtoudfxucjbaroxudufzbcyucraodvunqb.qutscqox
uuuuuucnbirgyuxznf,uizdvbftudfxuazdabftudvbxurqoutaoyumzsgxoackuMzrq
uuuuuuazdxudfxucraodvunzsfxus urqazstqudupdggoyuxofcounbrquc.asmuzdj
uuuuuudfxuibakuDruopoayursafuMdcjoapbggoutdpoudfuoh.gdvdrbzfuzi
uuuuuuxogbtqr,ugzzjbftuodtoagyudmzsruqbvudfxudcjbftu.zsfrgocc
uuuuuuesocrbzfckuRzuqbcuoyocudggucoovoxumodsrbisg,umsrurzuvoudurbftouzi
uuuuuuvogdf.qzgyugdyus zfurqou.zsfraycbxo,unqb.qumzaouczu.godagyurqo
uuuuuuvdajuziurqoundfbftuyodakuYoggznugodpocu.da oroxurqougdfocudfx
uuuuuuigsrroaoxuxznfus zfuscudcunou dccoxkuRqouadrrgouziuzsaunqoogc
uuuuuuxboxudndyudcunouxazpourqazstquxabircuziuazrrbftupotordrbzf—cdx
uuuuuutbirc,udcubrucoovoxurzuvo,uizauFdrsaourzurqaznumoizaourqo
uuuuuu.daabdtouziurqouaorsafbftuqobauziurqouMdcjoapbggock

uuuuuu“Qdggzd!”u.aboxuXakuVzarbvoa,u“nqdrubcurqbc?”

uuuuuuDucroo u.sapouziuqodrq-.gdxugdfx,udfuzsrgybftuc sauziurqouvzza,
uuuuuugdyubfuiazfruziusckuZfurqoucsvvbr,uqdaxudfxu.godaugbjoudf
uuuuuuoesocrabdfucrdrsous zfubrcu oxocrdg,undcuduvzsfroxuczgxboa,uxdaj
uuuuuudfxucroaf,uqbcuabigou zbcoxuaodxyuzpoauqbcuizaodavkuQoundc
uuuuuundr.qbfturqouazdxudgzftunqb.qunouradpoggoxk

uuuuuu“Nqdrubcurqbc,u oajbfc?”udcjoxuXakuVzarbvoak

uuuuuuZsauxabpoauqdgiursafoxubfuqbcucodrku“Rqoao’cudu.zfpb.ruoc.d ox
uuuuuuiazvu abf.orznf,ucbakuQo’cumoofuzsrurqaoouxdycufzn,udfxurqo
uuuuuundaxoacundr.quopoayuazdxudfxuopoayucrdrbzf,umsrurqoy’pouqdxufz
uuuuuucbtqruziuqbvuyorkuRqouidavoacudmzsruqoaouxzf’rugbjoubr,ucba,udfx
uuuuuurqdr’cuduid.rk”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uBusfxoacrdfxurqdrurqoyutoruibpou zsfxcubiurqoyu.dfutbpo
uuuuuubfizavdrbzfk”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucba,umsrurqou.qdf.ouziuibpou zsfxcubcumsrudu zzaurqbft
uuuuuu.zv daoxurzurqou.qdf.ouziuqdpbftuyzsaurqazdru.srkuYzsucoo,ubr
uuuuuubcf’rugbjoudfyuzaxbfdayu.zfpb.rkuRqbcubcuduvdfurqdrunzsgxucrb.j
uuuuuudrufzrqbftk”

uuuuuu“Nqzubcuqo,urqof?”

uuuuuu“BrubcuCogxof,urqouFzrrbftuQbgguvsaxoaoak”

uuuuuuBuaovovmoaoxurqou.dcounogg,uizaubrundcuzfoubfunqb.quQzgvocuqdx
uuuuuurdjofudfubfroaocruzfud..zsfruziurqou o.sgbdauioaz.bryuziurqo
uuuuuu.abvoudfxurqoundfrzfumasrdgbryunqb.quqdxuvdajoxudggurqoud.rbzfc
uuuuuuziurqoudccdccbfkuRqou.zvvsrdrbzfuziuqbcuxodrqucofrof.ouqdxumoof
uuuuuuxsourzuczvouxzsmrcudcurzuqbcu.zv goroucdfbry,uczudraz.bzscundc
uuuuuuqbcu.zfxs.rkuZsaundtzforrouqdxurz  oxuduabcoudfxubfuiazfruziusc
uuuuuuazcourqouqstouoh dfcouziurqouvzza,uvzrrgoxunbrqutfdagoxudfx
uuuuuu.adttyu.dbafcudfxurzackuDu.zgxunbfxucno ruxznfuiazvubrudfxucorusc
uuuuuucqbpoabftkuCzvonqoaourqoao,uzfurqdruxoczgdrou gdbf,undcugsajbft
uuuuuurqbcuibofxbcquvdf,uqbxbftubfudumsaaznugbjoudunbgxumodcr,uqbc
uuuuuuqodaruisgguziuvdgbtfdf.yudtdbfcrurqounqzgouad.ounqb.quqdxu.dcr
uuuuuuqbvuzsrkuBrufooxoxumsrurqbcurzu.zv gorourqoutabvucsttocrbpofocc
uuuuuuziurqoumdaaofundcro,urqou.qbggbftunbfx,udfxurqouxdajgbftucjyk
uuuuuuOpofuMdcjoapbggouioggucbgofrudfxu sggoxuqbcuzpoa.zdruvzaou.gzcogy
uuuuuudazsfxuqbvk

uuuuuuNouqdxugoirurqouioarbgou.zsfrayumoqbfxudfxumofodrqusckuNougzzjox
uuuuuumd.juzfubrufzn,urqoucgdfrbftuadycuziudugznucsfursafbfturqo
uuuuuucraodvcurzurqaodxcuziutzgxudfxutgznbftuzfurqouaoxuodarqufon
uuuuuursafoxumyurqou gzstqudfxurqoumazdxurdftgouziurqounzzxgdfxckuRqo
uuuuuuazdxubfuiazfruziuscutaonumgodjoaudfxunbgxoauzpoauqstouasccorudfx
uuuuuuzgbpoucgz oc,uc abfjgoxunbrqutbdfrumzsgxoackuFznudfxurqofuno
uuuuuu dccoxuduvzzagdfxu.zrrdto,undggoxudfxuazzioxunbrqucrzfo,unbrqufz
uuuuuu.aoo oaurzumaodjubrcuqdacquzsrgbfokuCsxxofgyunougzzjoxuxznfubfrz
uuuuuudu.s gbjouxo aoccbzf,u dr.qoxunbrqucrsfroxuzdjcudfxuibacunqb.q
uuuuuuqdxumoofurnbcroxudfxumofrumyurqouisayuziuyodacuziucrzavkuRnz
uuuuuuqbtq,ufdaaznurznoacuazcouzpoaurqouraoockuRqouxabpoau zbfroxunbrq
uuuuuuqbcunqb k

uuuuuu“MdcjoapbggouQdgg,”ucdbxuqok

uuuuuuBrcuvdcroauqdxuabcofudfxundcucrdabftunbrquigscqoxu.qoojcudfx
uuuuuucqbfbftuoyockuDuionuvbfsrocugdroaunouqdxuaod.qoxurqougzxto-tdroc,
uuuuuuduvdlouziuidfrdcrb.urad.oayubfunazstqrubazf,unbrqunodrqoa-mbrrof
uuuuuu bggdacuzfuobrqoaucbxo,umgzr.qoxunbrqugb.qofc,udfxucsavzsfroxumy
uuuuuurqoumzdac’uqodxcuziurqouMdcjoapbggockuRqougzxtoundcuduasbfuzi
uuuuuumgd.jutadfbroudfxumdaoxuabmcuziuadiroac,umsruid.bftubrundcudufon
uuuuuumsbgxbft,uqdgiu.zfcras.rox,urqouibacruiasbruziuCbau.qdagoc’c
uuuuuuCzsrquDiab.dfutzgxk

uuuuuuRqazstqurqoutdrondyunou dccoxubfrzurqoudpofso,unqoaourqounqoogc
uuuuuunoaoudtdbfuqscqoxudvbxurqougodpoc,udfxurqouzgxuraoocucqzrurqoba
uuuuuumadf.qocubfuduczvmaoursffoguzpoauzsauqodxckuMdcjoapbggoucqsxxoaox
uuuuuudcuqougzzjoxus urqougzft,uxdajuxabpourzunqoaourqouqzscoutgbvvoaox
uuuuuugbjoudutqzcrudrurqouidarqoauofxk

uuuuuu“Ndcubruqoao?”uqoudcjoxubfudugznupzb.ok

uuuuuu“Fz,ufz,urqouyonudggoyubcuzfurqouzrqoaucbxok”

uuuuuuRqouyzsftuqobautgdf.oxuazsfxunbrqudutgzzvyuid.ok

uuuuuu“Br’cufzunzfxoauvyusf.gouiogrudcubiurazsmgounoaou.zvbftuzfuqbvubf
uuuuuucs.qudu gd.oudcurqbc,”ucdbxuqoku“Br’cuofzstqurzuc.daoudfyuvdfk
uuuuuuB’gguqdpouduaznuziuogo.rab.ugdv cus uqoaoubfcbxouziucbhuvzfrqc,
uuuuuudfxuyzsunzf’rujfznubrudtdbf,unbrqudurqzscdfxu.dfxgo- znoauCndf
uuuuuudfxuOxbczfuabtqruqoaoubfuiazfruziurqouqdgguxzzak”

uuuuuuRqoudpofsouz ofoxubfrzudumazdxuoh dfcouziursai,udfxurqouqzscougdy
uuuuuumoizaousckuBfurqouidxbftugbtqruBu.zsgxucoourqdrurqou.ofraoundcud
uuuuuuqodpyumgz.juziumsbgxbftuiazvunqb.qudu za.qu azwo.roxkuRqounqzgo
uuuuuuiazfrundcuxad oxubfubpy,unbrqudu dr.qu.gb  oxumdaouqoaoudfxurqoao
uuuuuunqoaoudunbfxznuzaudu.zdruziudavcumazjourqazstqurqouxdajupobgk
uuuuuuIazvurqbcu.ofradgumgz.juazcourqournbfurznoac,udf.bofr,
uuuuuu.aofogdrox,udfxu boa.oxunbrquvdfyugzz qzgockuRzuabtqrudfxugoiruzi
uuuuuurqoursaaorcunoaouvzaouvzxoafunbftcuziumgd.jutadfbrokuDuxsggugbtqr
uuuuuucqzfourqazstquqodpyuvsggbzfoxunbfxznc,udfxuiazvurqouqbtqu.qbvfoyc
uuuuuunqb.quazcouiazvurqoucroo ,uqbtq-dftgoxuazziurqoaouc adftuducbftgo
uuuuuumgd.ju.zgsvfuziucvzjok

uuuuuu“Nog.zvo,uCbauQofay!uNog.zvourzuMdcjoapbggouQdgg!”

uuuuuuDurdgguvdfuqdxucro  oxuiazvurqoucqdxznuziurqou za.qurzuz ofurqo
uuuuuuxzzauziurqoundtzforrokuRqouibtsaouziudunzvdfundcucbgqzsorrox
uuuuuudtdbfcrurqouyoggznugbtqruziurqouqdggkuCqou.dvouzsrudfxuqog oxurqo
uuuuuuvdfurzuqdfxuxznfuzsaumdtck

uuuuuu“Yzsuxzf’ruvbfxuvyuxabpbftucradbtqruqzvo,uCbauQofay?”ucdbxuXak
uuuuuuVzarbvoaku“Vyunbioubcuoh o.rbftuvok”

uuuuuu“Csaogyuyzsunbggucrdyudfxuqdpouczvouxbffoa?”

uuuuuu“Fz,uBuvscrutzkuBucqdggu azmdmgyuibfxuczvounzajudndbrbftuvokuB
uuuuuunzsgxucrdyurzucqznuyzsuzpoaurqouqzsco,umsruMdaayvzaounbggumoud
uuuuuumorroautsbxourqdfuBkuTzzx-myo,udfxufopoauqocbrdroufbtqruzauxdyurz
uuuuuucofxuizauvoubiuBu.dfumouziucoapb.ok”

uuuuuuRqounqoogcuxboxudndyuxznfurqouxabpounqbgouCbauQofayudfxuBursafox
uuuuuubfrzurqouqdgg,udfxurqouxzzau.gdftoxuqodpbgyumoqbfxusckuBrundcud
uuuuuuibfoud darvofrubfunqb.qunouizsfxuzsacogpoc,ugdato,ugziry,udfx
uuuuuuqodpbgyuadiroaoxunbrquqstoumdsgjcuziudto-mgd.jofoxuzdjkuBfurqo
uuuuuutaodruzgx-idcqbzfoxuibao gd.oumoqbfxurqouqbtqubazfuxztcud
uuuuuugzt-ibaou.ad.jgoxudfxucfd  oxkuCbauQofayudfxuBuqogxuzsruzsauqdfxc
uuuuuurzubr,uizaunounoaoufsvmuiazvuzsaugzftuxabpokuRqofunoutdloxuazsfx
uuuuuuscudrurqouqbtq,urqbfunbfxznuziuzgxucrdbfoxutgdcc,urqouzdj
uuuuuu dfoggbft,urqoucrdtc’uqodxc,urqou.zdrcuziudavcus zfurqoundggc,
uuuuuudgguxbvudfxuczvmaoubfurqoucsmxsoxugbtqruziurqou.ofradgugdv k

uuuuuu“Br’cuwscrudcuBubvdtbfoxubr,”ucdbxuCbauQofayku“Bcubrufzrurqoupoay
uuuuuu b.rsaouziudfuzgxuidvbgyuqzvo?uRzurqbfjurqdrurqbcucqzsgxumourqo
uuuuuucdvouqdggubfunqb.quizauibpouqsfxaoxuyodacuvyu oz gouqdpougbpoxk
uuuuuuBrucrabjocuvouczgovfurzurqbfjuziubrk”

uuuuuuBucdnuqbcuxdajuid.ougbrus unbrqudumzybcquofrqscbdcvudcuqoutdlox
uuuuuudmzsruqbvkuRqougbtqrumodrus zfuqbvunqoaouqoucrzzx,umsrugzft
uuuuuucqdxzncuradbgoxuxznfurqoundggcudfxuqsftugbjoudumgd.ju.dfz yudmzpo
uuuuuuqbvkuMdaayvzaouqdxuaorsafoxuiazvurdjbftuzsaugsttdtourzuzsauazzvck
uuuuuuQoucrzzxubfuiazfruziuscufznunbrqurqoucsmxsoxuvdffoauziud
uuuuuunogg-radbfoxucoapdfrkuQoundcuduaovdajdmgo-gzzjbftuvdf,urdgg,
uuuuuuqdfxczvo,unbrquducesdaoumgd.jumodaxudfxu dgo,uxbcrbftsbcqox
uuuuuuiodrsaock

uuuuuu“Nzsgxuyzsunbcquxbffoaurzumoucoapoxudruzf.o,ucba?”

uuuuuu“Bcubruaodxy?”

uuuuuu“Bfudupoayuionuvbfsroc,ucbakuYzsunbgguibfxuqzrundroaubfuyzsa
uuuuuuazzvckuVyunbioudfxuBunbggumouqd  y,uCbauQofay,urzucrdyunbrquyzs
uuuuuusfrbguyzsuqdpouvdxouyzsauiaocqudaadftovofrc,umsruyzsunbgg
uuuuuusfxoacrdfxurqdrusfxoaurqoufonu.zfxbrbzfcurqbcuqzscounbgguaoesbao
uuuuuudu.zfcbxoadmgoucrdiik”

uuuuuu“Nqdrufonu.zfxbrbzfc?”

uuuuuu“Buzfgyuvodfr,ucba,urqdruCbau.qdagocugoxudupoayuaorbaoxugbio,udfx
uuuuuunounoaoudmgourzugzzjudiroauqbcundfrckuYzsunzsgx,ufdrsadggy,unbcq
uuuuuurzuqdpouvzaou.zv dfy,udfxuczuyzsunbggufooxu.qdftocubfuyzsa
uuuuuuqzscoqzgxk”

uuuuuu“Xzuyzsuvodfurqdruyzsaunbioudfxuyzsunbcqurzugodpo?”

uuuuuu“Zfgyunqofubrubcuesbrou.zfpofbofrurzuyzs,ucbak”

uuuuuu“Msruyzsauidvbgyuqdpoumoofunbrquscuizaucopoadgutofoadrbzfc,uqdpo
uuuuuurqoyufzr?uBucqzsgxumouczaayurzumotbfuvyugbiouqoaoumyumaodjbftudf
uuuuuuzgxuidvbgyu.zffo.rbzfk”

uuuuuuBucoovoxurzuxbc.oafuczvoucbtfcuziuovzrbzfus zfurqoumsrgoa’cunqbro
uuuuuuid.ok

uuuuuu“Buioogurqdrudgcz,ucba,udfxuczuxzocuvyunbiokuMsrurzuroggurqo
uuuuuurasrq,ucba,unounoaoumzrqupoayuvs.qudrrd.qoxurzuCbau.qdagoc,udfx
uuuuuuqbcuxodrqutdpouscuducqz.judfxuvdxourqocoucsaazsfxbftcupoay
uuuuuu dbfisgurzusckuBuiodaurqdrunoucqdggufopoaudtdbfumouodcyubfuzsa
uuuuuuvbfxcudruMdcjoapbggouQdggk”

uuuuuu“Msrunqdruxzuyzsubfrofxurzuxz?”

uuuuuu“Buqdpoufzuxzsmr,ucba,urqdrunoucqdggucs..ooxubfuocrdmgbcqbft
uuuuuuzsacogpocubfuczvoumscbfocckuCbau.qdagoc’cutofoazcbryuqdcutbpofusc
uuuuuurqouvodfcurzuxzuczkuDfxufzn,ucba,u oaqd cuBuqdxumocrucqznuyzsurz
uuuuuuyzsauazzvck”

uuuuuuDucesdaoumdgscradxoxutdggoayuadfuazsfxurqourz uziurqouzgxuqdgg,
uuuuuud  azd.qoxumyuduxzsmgoucrdbakuIazvurqbcu.ofradgu zbfrurnzugzft
uuuuuu.zaabxzacuohrofxoxurqounqzgougoftrquziurqoumsbgxbft,uiazvunqb.q
uuuuuudggurqoumoxazzvcuz ofoxkuVyuznfundcubfurqoucdvounbftudc
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggo’cudfxudgvzcrufohruxzzaurzubrkuRqocouazzvcud  odaoxurz
uuuuuumouvs.quvzaouvzxoafurqdfurqou.ofradgu daruziurqouqzsco,udfxurqo
uuuuuumabtqru d oaudfxufsvoazscu.dfxgocuxbxuczvorqbfturzuaovzpourqo
uuuuuuczvmaoubv aoccbzfunqb.quzsaudaabpdguqdxugoirus zfuvyuvbfxk

uuuuuuMsrurqouxbfbft-azzvunqb.quz ofoxuzsruziurqouqdggundcudu gd.ouzi
uuuuuucqdxznudfxutgzzvkuBrundcudugzftu.qdvmoaunbrquducro uco dadrbft
uuuuuurqouxdbcunqoaourqouidvbgyucdruiazvurqougznoau zarbzfuaocoapoxuiza
uuuuuurqobauxo ofxofrckuDruzfouofxuduvbfcraog’cutdggoayuzpoagzzjoxubrk
uuuuuuMgd.jumodvcucqzrud.azccudmzpouzsauqodxc,unbrquducvzjo-xdajofox
uuuuuu.obgbftumoyzfxurqovkuNbrquazncuziuigdabfturza.qocurzugbtqrubrus ,
uuuuuudfxurqou.zgzsaudfxuasxouqbgdabryuziudfuzgx-rbvoumdfesor,ubruvbtqr
uuuuuuqdpouczirofox;umsrufzn,unqofurnzumgd.j-.gzrqoxutofrgovofucdrubf
uuuuuurqougbrrgou.ba.gouziugbtqrurqaznfumyuducqdxoxugdv ,uzfo’cupzb.o
uuuuuumo.dvouqscqoxudfxuzfo’cuc babrucsmxsoxkuDuxbvugbfouziudf.ocrzac,
uuuuuubfuopoayupdaboryuziuxaocc,uiazvurqouOgbldmorqdfujfbtqrurzurqo
uuuuuums.juziurqouAotof.y,ucrdaoxuxznfus zfuscudfxuxdsfroxuscumyurqoba
uuuuuucbgofru.zv dfykuNourdgjoxugbrrgo,udfxuBuizauzfoundcutgdxunqofurqo
uuuuuuvodgundcuzpoaudfxunounoaoudmgourzuaorbaoubfrzurqouvzxoaf
uuuuuumbggbdax-azzvudfxucvzjoudu.btdaorrok

uuuuuu“Vyunzax,ubrubcf’rudupoayu.qooaisgu gd.o,”ucdbxuCbauQofayku“B
uuuuuucs  zcouzfou.dfurzfouxznfurzubr,umsruBuioogudumbruzsruziurqo
uuuuuu b.rsaoudru aocofrkuBuxzf’runzfxoaurqdruvyusf.goutzrudugbrrgo
uuuuuuwsv yubiuqougbpoxudggudgzfoubfucs.quduqzscoudcurqbckuQznopoa,ubi
uuuuuubrucsbrcuyzs,unounbgguaorbaouodagyurzfbtqr,udfxu oaqd curqbftc
uuuuuuvdyucoovuvzaou.qooaisgubfurqouvzafbftk”

uuuuuuBuxaonudcbxouvyu.sardbfcumoizaouBunofrurzumoxudfxugzzjoxuzsruiazv
uuuuuuvyunbfxznkuBruz ofoxus zfurqoutadccyuc d.ounqb.qugdyubfuiazfruzi
uuuuuurqouqdgguxzzakuMoyzfx,urnzu.z cocuziuraoocuvzdfoxudfxucnsftubfud
uuuuuuabcbftunbfxkuDuqdgiuvzzfumazjourqazstqurqouabircuziuad.bft
uuuuuu.gzsxckuBfubrcu.zgxugbtqruBucdnumoyzfxurqouraoocudumazjofuiabfto
uuuuuuziuaz.jc,udfxurqougzft,ugznu.sapouziurqouvogdf.qzgyuvzzakuB
uuuuuu.gzcoxurqou.sardbf,uioogbfturqdruvyugdcrubv aoccbzfundcubf
uuuuuujoo bftunbrqurqouaocrk

uuuuuuDfxuyorubrundcufzruesbrourqougdcrkuBuizsfxuvycogiunodayudfxuyor
uuuuuundjoisg,urzccbftuaocrgoccgyuiazvucbxourzucbxo,ucoojbftuizaurqo
uuuuuucgoo unqb.qunzsgxufzru.zvokuIdaudndyudu.qbvbftu.gz.jucras.juzsr
uuuuuurqouesdaroacuziurqouqzsac,umsruzrqoanbcouduxodrqgyucbgof.ougdy
uuuuuus zfurqouzgxuqzscokuDfxurqofucsxxofgy,ubfurqoupoayuxodxuziurqo
uuuuuufbtqr,urqoaou.dvouduczsfxurzuvyuodac,u.goda,uaoczfdfr,udfx
uuuuuusfvbcrdjdmgokuBrundcurqouczmuziudunzvdf,urqouvsiigox,ucradftgbft
uuuuuutdc uziuzfounqzubcurzafumyudfusf.zfrazggdmgouczaaznkuBucdrus ubf
uuuuuumoxudfxugbcrofoxubfrofrgykuRqoufzbcou.zsgxufzruqdpoumoofuidaudndy
uuuuuudfxundcu.oardbfgyubfurqouqzscokuIzauqdgiudfuqzsauBundbroxunbrq
uuuuuuopoayufoapouzfurqoudgoar,umsrurqoaou.dvoufzuzrqoauczsfxucdpourqo
uuuuuu.qbvbftu.gz.judfxurqouascrgouziurqoubpyuzfurqoundggk



.qd roau7k

RqouCrd gorzfcuziuVoaab bruQzsco

uuuuuuRqouiaocqumodsryuziurqouizggznbftuvzafbftuxbxuczvorqbfturzuoiid.o
uuuuuuiazvuzsauvbfxcurqoutabvudfxutaoyubv aoccbzfunqb.quqdxumoofugoir
uuuuuus zfumzrquziuscumyuzsauibacruoh oabof.ouziuMdcjoapbggouQdggkuDc
uuuuuuCbauQofayudfxuBucdrudrumaodjidcrurqoucsfgbtqruigzzxoxubfurqazstq
uuuuuurqouqbtquvsggbzfoxunbfxznc,urqaznbftundroayu dr.qocuziu.zgzsa
uuuuuuiazvurqou.zdrcuziudavcunqb.qu.zpoaoxurqovkuRqouxdaju dfoggbft
uuuuuutgznoxugbjoumazfloubfurqoutzgxofuadyc,udfxubrundcuqdaxurzuaodgbco
uuuuuurqdrurqbcundcubfxooxurqou.qdvmoaunqb.quqdxucras.jucs.qudutgzzv
uuuuuubfrzuzsauczsgcus zfurqouopofbftumoizaok

uuuuuu“Butsoccubrubcuzsacogpocudfxufzrurqouqzscourqdrunouqdpourz
uuuuuumgdvo!”ucdbxurqoumdazforku“Nounoaourbaoxunbrquzsauwzsafoyudfx
uuuuuu.qbggoxumyuzsauxabpo,uczunourzzjudutaoyupbonuziurqou gd.okuFznuno
uuuuuudaouiaocqudfxunogg,uczubrubcudggu.qooaisguzf.ouvzaok”

uuuuuu“Dfxuyorubrundcufzruofrbaogyuduesocrbzfuziubvdtbfdrbzf,”uB
uuuuuudfcnoaoxku“Xbxuyzs,uizauohdv go,uqd  ofurzuqodauczvozfo,udunzvdf
uuuuuuBurqbfj,uczmmbftubfurqoufbtqr?”

uuuuuu“Rqdrubcu.sabzsc,uizauBuxbxunqofuBundcuqdgiudcgoo uidf.yurqdruB
uuuuuuqodaxuczvorqbftuziurqouczarkuBundbroxuesbroudurbvo,umsrurqoaoundc
uuuuuufzuvzaouziubr,uczuBu.zf.gsxoxurqdrubrundcudgguduxaodvk”

uuuuuu“Buqodaxubruxbcrbf.rgy,udfxuBudvucsaourqdrubrundcuaodggyurqouczm
uuuuuuziudunzvdfk”

uuuuuu“Nouvscrudcjudmzsrurqbcuabtqrudndyk”uQouadfturqoumoggudfxudcjox
uuuuuuMdaayvzaounqorqoauqou.zsgxud..zsfruizauzsauoh oabof.okuBrucoovox
uuuuuurzuvourqdrurqou dggbxuiodrsaocuziurqoumsrgoaursafoxuducqdxou dgoa
uuuuuucrbggudcuqougbcrofoxurzuqbcuvdcroa’cuesocrbzfk

uuuuuu“Rqoaoudaouzfgyurnzunzvofubfurqouqzsco,uCbauQofay,”uqoudfcnoaoxk
uuuuuu“Zfoubcurqouc.sggoay-vdbx,unqzucgoo cubfurqouzrqoaunbftkuRqo
uuuuuuzrqoaubcuvyunbio,udfxuBu.dfudfcnoauizaubrurqdrurqouczsfxu.zsgx
uuuuuufzruqdpou.zvouiazvuqoak”

uuuuuuDfxuyoruqougboxudcuqoucdbxubr,uizaubru.qdf.oxurqdrudiroa
uuuuuumaodjidcruBuvoruVackuMdaayvzaoubfurqougzftu.zaabxzaunbrqurqoucsf
uuuuuuisggus zfuqoauid.okuCqoundcudugdato,ubv dccbpo,uqodpy-iodrsaox
uuuuuunzvdfunbrquducroafucoruoh aoccbzfuziuvzsrqkuMsruqoauroggrdgouoyoc
uuuuuunoaouaoxudfxutgdf.oxudruvouiazvumornoofucnzggofugbxckuBrundcucqo,
uuuuuurqof,unqzuno rubfurqoufbtqr,udfxubiucqouxbxuczuqoauqscmdfxuvscr
uuuuuujfznubrkuYoruqouqdxurdjofurqouzmpbzscuabcjuziuxbc.zpoayubf
uuuuuuxo.gdabfturqdrubrundcufzruczkuNqyuqdxuqouxzfourqbc?uDfxunqyuxbx
uuuuuucqounoo uczumbrroagy?uDgaodxyuazsfxurqbcu dgo-id.ox,uqdfxczvo,
uuuuuumgd.j-modaxoxuvdfurqoaoundcutdrqoabftudfudrvzc qoaouziuvycroay
uuuuuudfxuziutgzzvkuBrundcuqounqzuqdxumoofurqouibacrurzuxbc.zpoaurqo
uuuuuumzxyuziuCbau.qdagoc,udfxunouqdxuzfgyuqbcunzaxuizaudggurqo
uuuuuu.ba.svcrdf.ocunqb.qugoxus urzurqouzgxuvdf’cuxodrqkuNdcubr
uuuuuu zccbmgourqdrubrundcuMdaayvzao,udiroaudgg,unqzvunouqdxucoofubf
uuuuuurqou.dmubfuAotofruCraoor?uRqoumodaxuvbtqrunogguqdpoumoofurqo
uuuuuucdvokuRqou.dmvdfuqdxuxoc.abmoxuduczvonqdrucqzaroauvdf,umsrucs.q
uuuuuudfubv aoccbzfuvbtqruodcbgyuqdpoumoofuoaazfozsckuQznu.zsgxuB
uuuuuucorrgourqou zbfruizaopoa?uZmpbzscgyurqouibacrurqbfturzuxzundcurz
uuuuuucoourqouTabv ofu zcrvdcroaudfxuibfxunqorqoaurqourocrurogotadvuqdx
uuuuuuaodggyumoofu gd.oxubfuMdaayvzao’cuznfuqdfxckuMourqoudfcnoaunqdr
uuuuuubruvbtqr,uBucqzsgxudrugodcruqdpouczvorqbfturzuao zarurzuCqoagz.j
uuuuuuQzgvock

uuuuuuCbauQofayuqdxufsvoazscu d oacurzuohdvbfoudiroaumaodjidcr,uczurqdr
uuuuuurqourbvoundcu az brbzscuizauvyuoh.sacbzfkuBrundcudu godcdfrundgj
uuuuuuziuizsauvbgocudgzfturqouoxtouziurqouvzza,ugodxbftuvoudrugdcrurzud
uuuuuucvdggutaoyuqdvgor,ubfunqb.qurnzugdatoaumsbgxbftc,unqb.qu azpoxurz
uuuuuumourqoubffudfxurqouqzscouziuXakuVzarbvoa,ucrzzxuqbtqudmzpourqo
uuuuuuaocrkuRqou zcrvdcroa,unqzundcudgczurqoupbggdtoutaz.oa,uqdxud
uuuuuu.godauao.zggo.rbzfuziurqourogotadvk

uuuuuu“.oardbfgy,ucba,”ucdbxuqo,u“BuqdxurqourogotadvuxogbpoaoxurzuVak
uuuuuuMdaayvzaouohd.rgyudcuxbao.roxk”

uuuuuu“Nqzuxogbpoaoxubr?”

uuuuuu“VyumzyuqoaokuWdvoc,uyzsuxogbpoaoxurqdrurogotadvurzuVakuMdaayvzao
uuuuuudrurqouQdggugdcrunooj,uxbxuyzsufzr?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uidrqoa,uBuxogbpoaoxubrk”

uuuuuu“Bfrzuqbcuznfuqdfxc?”uBudcjoxk

uuuuuu“Nogg,uqoundcus ubfurqougzirudrurqourbvo,uczurqdruBu.zsgxufzru sr
uuuuuubrubfrzuqbcuznfuqdfxc,umsruButdpoubrubfrzuVackuMdaayvzao’cuqdfxc,
uuuuuudfxucqou azvbcoxurzuxogbpoaubrudruzf.ok”

uuuuuu“XbxuyzsucoouVakuMdaayvzao?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ucba;uBurogguyzsuqoundcubfurqougzirk”

uuuuuu“Biuyzsuxbxf’rucoouqbv,uqznuxzuyzsujfznuqoundcubfurqougzir?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,ucsaogyuqbcuznfunbiouzstqrurzujfznunqoaouqoubc,”ucdbxurqo
uuuuuu zcrvdcroaurocrbgyku“Xbxf’ruqoutorurqourogotadv?uBiurqoaoubcudfy
uuuuuuvbcrdjoubrubcuizauVakuMdaayvzaouqbvcogiurzu.zv gdbfk”

uuuuuuBrucoovoxuqz ogoccurzu sacsourqoubfesbayudfyuidarqoa,umsrubrundc
uuuuuu.godaurqdrubfuc brouziuQzgvoc’cuascounouqdxufzu azziurqdr
uuuuuuMdaayvzaouqdxufzrumoofubfuGzfxzfudggurqourbvokuCs  zcourqdrubr
uuuuuunoaoucz—cs  zcourqdrurqoucdvouvdfuqdxumoofurqougdcrunqzuqdxucoof
uuuuuuCbau.qdagocudgbpo,udfxurqouibacrurzuxzturqoufonuqobaunqofuqo
uuuuuuaorsafoxurzuOftgdfxkuNqdrurqof?uNdcuqourqoudtofruziuzrqoacuzauqdx
uuuuuuqouczvoucbfbcroauxocbtfuziuqbcuznf?uNqdrubfroaocru.zsgxuqouqdpo
uuuuuubfu oaco.srbfturqouMdcjoapbggouidvbgy?uBurqzstqruziurqoucradfto
uuuuuundafbftu.gb  oxuzsruziurqougodxbftudarb.gouziurqou_Rbvoc_kuNdc
uuuuuurqdruqbcunzajuzaundcubru zccbmgyurqouxzbftuziuczvozfounqzundc
uuuuuumofrus zfu.zsfroad.rbftuqbcuc.qovoc?uRqouzfgyu.zf.obpdmgouvzrbpo
uuuuuundcurqdrunqb.quqdxumoofucsttocroxumyuCbauQofay,urqdrubiurqo
uuuuuuidvbgyu.zsgxumouc.daoxudndyudu.zvizardmgoudfxu oavdfofruqzvo
uuuuuunzsgxumouco.saoxuizaurqouMdaayvzaockuMsrucsaogyucs.qudf
uuuuuuoh gdfdrbzfudcurqdrunzsgxumouesbroubfdxoesdrourzud..zsfruizaurqo
uuuuuuxoo udfxucsmrgouc.qovbftunqb.qucoovoxurzumounodpbftudfubfpbcbmgo
uuuuuuforuazsfxurqouyzsftumdazforkuQzgvocuqbvcogiuqdxucdbxurqdrufzuvzao
uuuuuu.zv gohu.dcouqdxu.zvourzuqbvubfudggurqougzftucoabocuziuqbc
uuuuuucofcdrbzfdgubfpocrbtdrbzfckuBu adyox,udcuBundgjoxumd.judgzfturqo
uuuuuutaoy,ugzfogyuazdx,urqdruvyuiabofxuvbtqruczzfumouiaooxuiazvuqbc
uuuuuu aoz..s drbzfcudfxudmgourzu.zvouxznfurzurdjourqbcuqodpyumsaxofuzi
uuuuuuaoc zfcbmbgbryuiazvuvyucqzsgxoack

uuuuuuCsxxofgyuvyurqzstqrcunoaoubfroaas roxumyurqouczsfxuziuasffbft
uuuuuuioorumoqbfxuvoudfxumyudupzb.ounqb.qu.dggoxuvoumyufdvokuBursafox,
uuuuuuoh o.rbfturzucoouXakuVzarbvoa,umsrurzuvyucsa abcoubrundcud
uuuuuucradftoaunqzundcu sacsbftuvokuQoundcuducvdgg,ucgbv,u.godf-cqdpof,
uuuuuu abv-id.oxuvdf,uigdhof-qdbaoxudfxugodf-wdnox,umornoofurqbaryudfx
uuuuuuizaryuyodacuziudto,uxaoccoxubfudutaoyucsbrudfxunodabftuducradn
uuuuuuqdrkuDurbfumzhuizaumzrdfb.dguc o.bvofcuqsftuzpoauqbcucqzsgxoaudfx
uuuuuuqou.daaboxudutaoofumsrroaigy-forubfuzfouziuqbcuqdfxck

uuuuuu“Yzsunbgg,uBudvucsao,uoh.scouvyu aocsv rbzf,uXakuNdrczf,”ucdbxuqo
uuuuuudcuqou.dvou dfrbftus urzunqoaouBucrzzxku“Qoaouzfurqouvzzaunoudao
uuuuuuqzvogyuizgjudfxuxzufzrundbruizauizavdgubfrazxs.rbzfckuYzsuvdy
uuuuuu zccbmgyuqdpouqodaxuvyufdvouiazvuzsauvsrsdguiabofx,uVzarbvoakuB
uuuuuudvuCrd gorzf,uziuVoaab bruQzscok”

uuuuuu“Yzsauforudfxumzhunzsgxuqdpourzgxuvoudcuvs.q,”ucdbxuB,u“izauB
uuuuuujfonurqdruVakuCrd gorzfundcudufdrsadgbcrkuMsruqznuxbxuyzsujfzn
uuuuuuvo?”

uuuuuu“Buqdpoumoofu.dggbftuzfuVzarbvoa,udfxuqou zbfroxuyzsuzsrurzuvo
uuuuuuiazvurqounbfxznuziuqbcucsatoayudcuyzsu dccoxkuDcuzsauazdxugdyurqo
uuuuuucdvoundyuBurqzstqrurqdruBunzsgxuzpoardjouyzsudfxubfrazxs.o
uuuuuuvycogikuBurascrurqdruCbauQofayubcufzfourqounzacouizauqbc
uuuuuuwzsafoy?”

uuuuuu“Qoubcupoayunogg,urqdfjuyzsk”

uuuuuu“NounoaoudgguadrqoaudiadbxurqdrudiroaurqoucdxuxodrquziuCba
uuuuuu.qdagocurqoufonumdazforuvbtqruaoiscourzugbpouqoaokuBrubcudcjbft
uuuuuuvs.quziudunodgrqyuvdfurzu.zvouxznfudfxumsayuqbvcogiubfudu gd.ouzi
uuuuuurqbcujbfx,umsruBufooxufzrurogguyzsurqdrubruvodfcudupoayutaodr
uuuuuuxodgurzurqou.zsfraycbxokuCbauQofayuqdc,uBucs  zco,ufz
uuuuuucs oacrbrbzscuiodacubfurqouvdrroa?”

uuuuuu“Buxzufzrurqbfjurqdrubrubcugbjogyk”

uuuuuu“Ziu.zsacouyzsujfznurqougotofxuziurqouibofxuxztunqb.quqdsfrcurqo
uuuuuuidvbgy?”

uuuuuu“Buqdpouqodaxubrk”

uuuuuu“Brubcuohradzaxbfdayuqznu.aoxsgzscurqou odcdfrcudaoudmzsruqoao!
uuuuuuDfyufsvmoauziurqovudaouaodxyurzucnodaurqdrurqoyuqdpoucoofucs.qud
uuuuuu.aodrsaous zfurqouvzzak”uQouc zjounbrquducvbgo,umsruBucoovoxurz
uuuuuuaodxubfuqbcuoyocurqdruqourzzjurqouvdrroauvzaoucoabzscgyku“Rqo
uuuuuucrzayurzzjudutaodruqzgxus zfurqoubvdtbfdrbzfuziuCbau.qdagoc,udfx
uuuuuuBuqdpoufzuxzsmrurqdrubrugoxurzuqbcuradtb.uofxk”

uuuuuu“Msruqzn?”

uuuuuu“Qbcufoapocunoaouczunzajoxus urqdrurqoud  odadf.ouziudfyuxzt
uuuuuuvbtqruqdpouqdxuduidrdguoiio.rus zfuqbcuxbcodcoxuqodarkuBuidf.y
uuuuuurqdruqouaodggyuxbxucoouczvorqbftuziurqoujbfxus zfurqdrugdcrufbtqr
uuuuuubfurqouyonudggoykuBuiodaoxurqdruczvouxbcdcroauvbtqruz..sa,uizauB
uuuuuundcupoayuizfxuziurqouzgxuvdf,udfxuBujfonurqdruqbcuqodarundc
uuuuuunodjk”

uuuuuu“Qznuxbxuyzsujfznurqdr?”

uuuuuu“VyuiabofxuVzarbvoaurzgxuvok”

uuuuuu“Yzsurqbfj,urqof,urqdruczvouxztu sacsoxuCbau.qdagoc,udfxurqdruqo
uuuuuuxboxuziuiabtqrubfu.zfcoesof.o?”

uuuuuu“Qdpouyzsudfyumorroauoh gdfdrbzf?”

uuuuuu“Buqdpoufzru.zvourzudfyu.zf.gscbzfk”

uuuuuu“QdcuVakuCqoagz.juQzgvoc?”

uuuuuuRqounzaxcurzzjudndyuvyumaodrquizaudfubfcrdfrumsrudutgdf.oudrurqo
uuuuuu gd.bxuid.oudfxucrodxidcruoyocuziuvyu.zv dfbzfucqznoxurqdrufz
uuuuuucsa abcoundcubfrofxoxk

uuuuuu“Brubcuscogoccuizauscurzu aorofxurqdrunouxzufzrujfznuyzs,uXak
uuuuuuNdrczf,”ucdbxuqoku“Rqouao.zaxcuziuyzsauxoro.rbpouqdpouaod.qoxusc
uuuuuuqoao,udfxuyzsu.zsgxufzru.ogomadrouqbvunbrqzsrumobftujfznf
uuuuuuyzsacogikuNqofuVzarbvoaurzgxuvouyzsaufdvouqou.zsgxufzruxofyuyzsa
uuuuuubxofrbrykuBiuyzsudaouqoao,urqofubruizggzncurqdruVakuCqoagz.j
uuuuuuQzgvocubcubfroaocrbftuqbvcogiubfurqouvdrroa,udfxuBudvufdrsadggy
uuuuuu.sabzscurzujfznunqdrupbonuqouvdyurdjok”

uuuuuu“BudvudiadbxurqdruBu.dffzrudfcnoaurqdruesocrbzfk”

uuuuuu“VdyuBudcjubiuqoubcutzbfturzuqzfzsauscunbrqudupbcbruqbvcogi?”

uuuuuu“Qou.dffzrugodpourznfudru aocofrkuQouqdcuzrqoau.dcocunqb.quoftdto
uuuuuuqbcudrrofrbzfk”

uuuuuu“Nqdrudu bry!uQouvbtqrurqaznuczvougbtqruzfurqdrunqb.qubcuczuxdaj
uuuuuurzusckuMsrudcurzuyzsauznfuaocoda.qoc,ubiurqoaoubcudfyu zccbmgo
uuuuuundyubfunqb.quBu.dfumouziucoapb.ourzuyzsuBurascrurqdruyzsunbgg
uuuuuu.zvvdfxuvokuBiuBuqdxudfyubfxb.drbzfuziurqoufdrsaouziuyzsa
uuuuuucsc b.bzfcuzauqznuyzsu az zcourzubfpocrbtdrourqou.dco,uBuvbtqr
uuuuuu oaqd cuopofufznutbpouyzsuczvoudbxuzaudxpb.ok”

uuuuuu“BudccsaouyzsurqdruBudvucbv gyuqoaous zfudupbcbrurzuvyuiabofx,
uuuuuuCbauQofay,udfxurqdruBufooxufzuqog uziudfyujbfxk”

uuuuuu“Oh.oggofr!”ucdbxuCrd gorzfku“Yzsudaou oaio.rgyuabtqrurzumounday
uuuuuudfxuxbc.aoorkuBudvuwscrgyuao azpoxuizaunqdruBuioogundcudf
uuuuuusfwscrbibdmgoubfrascbzf,udfxuBu azvbcouyzsurqdruBunbggufzr
uuuuuuvofrbzfurqouvdrroaudtdbfk”

uuuuuuNouqdxu.zvourzudu zbfrunqoaoudufdaaznutadccyu drqucras.juziiuiazv
uuuuuurqouazdxudfxunzsfxudndyud.azccurqouvzzakuDucroo ,
uuuuuumzsgxoa-c abfjgoxuqbggugdyus zfurqouabtqrunqb.quqdxubfumytzfo
uuuuuuxdycumoofu.srubfrzudutadfbrouesdaaykuRqouid.ounqb.qundcursafox
uuuuuurzndaxcuscuizavoxuduxdaju.gbii,unbrquioafcudfxumadvmgocutaznbft
uuuuuubfubrcufb.qockuIazvuzpoauduxbcrdfruabcourqoaouigzdroxudutaoy
uuuuuu gsvouziucvzjok

uuuuuu“Duvzxoadroundgjudgzfturqbcuvzza- drqumabftcuscurzuVoaab br
uuuuuuQzsco,”ucdbxuqoku“ oaqd cuyzsunbgguc daoudfuqzsaurqdruBuvdyuqdpo
uuuuuurqou godcsaouziubfrazxs.bftuyzsurzuvyucbcroak”

uuuuuuVyuibacrurqzstqrundcurqdruBucqzsgxumoumyuCbauQofay’cucbxokuMsr
uuuuuurqofuBuaovovmoaoxurqou bgouziu d oacudfxumbggcunbrqunqb.quqbc
uuuuuucrsxyurdmgoundcugbrroaoxkuBrundcu.oardbfurqdruBu.zsgxufzruqog 
uuuuuunbrqurqzcokuDfxuQzgvocuqdxuoh aoccgyucdbxurqdruBucqzsgxucrsxyurqo
uuuuuufobtqmzsacus zfurqouvzzakuBud..o roxuCrd gorzf’cubfpbrdrbzf,udfx
uuuuuunoursafoxurztorqoauxznfurqou drqk

uuuuuu“Brubcudunzfxoaisgu gd.o,urqouvzza,”ucdbxuqo,ugzzjbftuazsfxuzpoa
uuuuuurqousfxsgdrbftuxznfc,ugzftutaoofuazggoac,unbrqu.aocrcuziuwdttox
uuuuuutadfbrouizdvbftus ubfrzuidfrdcrb.ucsatocku“Yzsufopoaurbaouziurqo
uuuuuuvzzakuYzsu.dffzrurqbfjurqounzfxoaisguco.aorcunqb.qubru.zfrdbfck
uuuuuuBrubcuczupdcr,udfxuczumdaaof,udfxuczuvycroabzsck”

uuuuuu“Yzsujfznubrunogg,urqof?”

uuuuuu“BuqdpouzfgyumoofuqoaournzuyodackuRqouaocbxofrcunzsgxu.dgguvoud
uuuuuufon.zvoakuNou.dvoucqzargyudiroauCbau.qdagocucorrgoxkuMsruvy
uuuuuurdcrocugoxuvourzuoh gzaouopoayu daruziurqou.zsfrayuazsfx,udfxuB
uuuuuucqzsgxurqbfjurqdrurqoaoudaouionuvofunqzujfznubrumorroaurqdfuB
uuuuuuxzk”

uuuuuu“Bcubruqdaxurzujfzn?”

uuuuuu“PoayuqdaxkuYzsucoo,uizauohdv go,urqbcutaodru gdbfurzurqoufzarq
uuuuuuqoaounbrqurqouesooauqbggcumaodjbftuzsruziubrkuXzuyzsuzmcoapo
uuuuuudfyrqbftuaovdajdmgoudmzsrurqdr?”

uuuuuu“Brunzsgxumouduadaou gd.ouizaudutdggz k”

uuuuuu“Yzsunzsgxufdrsadggyurqbfjuczudfxurqourqzstqruqdcu.zcrucopoadg
uuuuuurqobaugbpocumoizaoufznkuYzsufzrb.ourqzcoumabtqrutaoofuc zrc
uuuuuuc.drroaoxurqb.jgyuzpoaubr?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,urqoyucoovuvzaouioarbgourqdfurqouaocrk”

uuuuuuCrd gorzfugdstqoxku“RqdrubcurqoutaodruTabv ofuVbao,”ucdbxuqoku“D
uuuuuuidgcoucro uyzfxoauvodfcuxodrqurzuvdfuzaumodcrkuZfgyuyocroaxdyuB
uuuuuucdnuzfouziurqouvzzau zfbocundfxoaubfrzubrkuQoufopoau.dvouzsrkuB
uuuuuucdnuqbcuqodxuizauesbroudugzfturbvou.adfbftuzsruziurqoumzt-qzgo,
uuuuuumsrubrucs.joxuqbvuxznfudrugdcrkuOpofubfuxayucodczfcubrubcud
uuuuuuxdftoaurzu.azccubr,umsrudiroaurqocoudsrsvfuadbfcubrubcudfudnisg
uuuuuu gd.okuDfxuyoruBu.dfuibfxuvyundyurzurqoupoayuqodaruziubrudfx
uuuuuuaorsafudgbpokuMyuTozato,urqoaoubcudfzrqoauziurqzcouvbcoadmgo
uuuuuu zfboc!”

uuuuuuCzvorqbftumaznfundcuazggbftudfxurzccbftudvzfturqoutaoofucoxtock
uuuuuuRqofudugzft,udtzfbcox,unabrqbftufo.jucqzrus ndaxudfxuduxaodxisg
uuuuuu.ayuo.qzoxuzpoaurqouvzzakuBrursafoxuvou.zgxunbrquqzaaza,umsruvy
uuuuuu.zv dfbzf’cufoapocucoovoxurzumoucrazftoaurqdfuvbfok

uuuuuu“Br’cutzfo!”ucdbxuqoku“RqouvbaouqdcuqbvkuRnzubfurnzuxdyc,udfx
uuuuuuvdfyuvzao,u oaqd c,uizaurqoyutorubfurqoundyuziutzbfturqoaoubfurqo
uuuuuuxayunodrqoaudfxufopoaujfznurqouxbiioaof.ousfrbgurqouvbaouqdcurqov
uuuuuubfubrcu.gsr.qockuBr’cudumdxu gd.o,urqoutaodruTabv ofuVbaok”

uuuuuu“Dfxuyzsucdyuyzsu.dfu oforadroubr?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,urqoaoudaouzfouzaurnzu drqcunqb.qudupoayud.rbpouvdfu.df
uuuuuurdjokuBuqdpouizsfxurqovuzsrk”

uuuuuu“Msrunqyucqzsgxuyzsunbcqurzutzubfrzuczuqzaabmgoudu gd.o?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uyzsucoourqouqbggcumoyzfx?uRqoyudaouaodggyubcgdfxcu.sruzii
uuuuuuzfudggucbxocumyurqoubv dccdmgouvbao,unqb.quqdcu.adngoxuazsfxurqov
uuuuuubfurqou.zsacouziuyodackuRqdrubcunqoaourqouadaou gdfrcudfxurqo
uuuuuumsrroaigbocudao,ubiuyzsuqdpourqounbrurzuaod.qurqovk”

uuuuuu“Bucqdggurayuvyugs.juczvouxdyk”

uuuuuuQougzzjoxudruvounbrquducsa abcoxuid.oku“IzauTzx’cucdjou srucs.q
uuuuuudfubxoduzsruziuyzsauvbfx,”ucdbxuqoku“Yzsaumgzzxunzsgxumous zfuvy
uuuuuuqodxkuBudccsaouyzsurqdrurqoaounzsgxufzrumourqougodcru.qdf.ouzi
uuuuuuyzsau.zvbftumd.judgbpokuBrubcuzfgyumyuaovovmoabftu.oardbfu.zv goh
uuuuuugdfxvdajcurqdruBudvudmgourzuxzubrk”

uuuuuu“Qdggzd!”uBu.aboxku“Nqdrubcurqdr?”

uuuuuuDugzft,ugznuvzdf,ubfxoc.abmdmgyucdx,ucno ruzpoaurqouvzzakuBr
uuuuuuibggoxurqounqzgoudba,udfxuyorubrundcubv zccbmgourzucdyunqof.oubr
uuuuuu.dvokuIazvuduxsgguvsavsaubrucnoggoxubfrzuduxoo uazda,udfxurqof
uuuuuucdfjumd.jubfrzuduvogdf.qzgy,urqazmmbftuvsavsauzf.oudtdbfk
uuuuuuCrd gorzfugzzjoxudruvounbrqudu.sabzscuoh aoccbzfubfuqbcuid.ok

uuuuuu“Esooau gd.o,urqouvzza!”ucdbxuqok

uuuuuu“Msrunqdrubcubr?”

uuuuuu“Rqou odcdfrcucdyubrubcurqouQzsfxuziurqouMdcjoapbggocu.dggbftuiza
uuuuuubrcu aoykuB’pouqodaxubruzf.ouzaurnb.oumoizao,umsrufopoauesbroucz
uuuuuugzsxk”

uuuuuuBugzzjoxuazsfx,unbrqudu.qbgguziuiodaubfuvyuqodar,udrurqouqsto
uuuuuucnoggbftu gdbf,uvzrrgoxunbrqurqoutaoofu dr.qocuziuascqockuFzrqbft
uuuuuucrbaaoxuzpoaurqoupdcruoh dfcoucdpoudu dbauziuadpofc,unqb.q
uuuuuu.azdjoxugzsxgyuiazvudurzaumoqbfxusck

uuuuuu“Yzsudaoudfuoxs.droxuvdfkuYzsuxzf’rumogbopoucs.qufzfcofcoudc
uuuuuurqdr?”ucdbxuBku“Nqdruxzuyzsurqbfjubcurqou.dscouziuczucradftoud
uuuuuuczsfx?”

uuuuuu“MztcuvdjouesooaufzbcocuczvorbvockuBr’curqouvsxucorrgbft,uzaurqo
uuuuuundroauabcbft,uzauczvorqbftk”

uuuuuu“Fz,ufz,urqdrundcudugbpbftupzb.ok”

uuuuuu“Nogg,u oaqd cubrundckuXbxuyzsuopoauqodaudumbrroafumzzvbft?”

uuuuuu“Fz,uBufopoauxbxk”

uuuuuu“Br’cudupoayuadaoumbax— ad.rb.dggyuohrbf.r—bfuOftgdfxufzn,umsr
uuuuuudggurqbftcudaou zccbmgous zfurqouvzzakuYoc,uBucqzsgxufzrumo
uuuuuucsa abcoxurzugodafurqdrunqdrunouqdpouqodaxubcurqou.ayuziurqougdcr
uuuuuuziurqoumbrroafck”

uuuuuu“Br’curqounobaxocr,ucradftocrurqbfturqdruopoauBuqodaxubfuvy
uuuuuugbiok”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ubr’cuadrqoaudfusf.dffyu gd.oudgrztorqoakuGzzjudrurqo
uuuuuuqbggcbxouyzfxoakuNqdruxzuyzsuvdjouziurqzco?”

uuuuuuRqounqzgoucroo ucgz oundcu.zpoaoxunbrqutaoyu.ba.sgdauabftcuzi
uuuuuucrzfo,uduc.zaouziurqovudrugodcrk

uuuuuu“Nqdrudaourqoy?uCqoo - ofc?”

uuuuuu“Fz,urqoyudaourqouqzvocuziuzsaunzarqyudf.ocrzacku aoqbcrzab.uvdf
uuuuuugbpoxurqb.jgyuzfurqouvzza,udfxudcufzuzfoubfu darb.sgdauqdcugbpox
uuuuuurqoaoucbf.o,unouibfxudgguqbcugbrrgoudaadftovofrcuohd.rgyudcuqo
uuuuuugoirurqovkuRqocoudaouqbcunbtndvcunbrqurqouazzicuziikuYzsu.dfuopof
uuuuuucoouqbcuqodarqudfxuqbcu.zs.qubiuyzsuqdpourqou.sabzcbryurzutz
uuuuuubfcbxok

uuuuuu“MsrubrubcuesbroudurznfkuNqofundcubrubfqdmbrox?”

uuuuuu“Fozgbrqb.uvdf—fzuxdrok”

uuuuuu“Nqdruxbxuqouxz?”

uuuuuu“Qoutadloxuqbcu.drrgouzfurqocoucgz oc,udfxuqougodafoxurzuxbtuiza
uuuuuurbfunqofurqoumazfloucnzaxumotdfurzucs oacoxourqoucrzfoudhokuGzzj
uuuuuudrurqoutaodruraof.qubfurqouz  zcbrouqbggkuRqdrubcuqbcuvdajkuYoc,
uuuuuuyzsunbgguibfxuczvoupoayucbftsgdau zbfrcudmzsrurqouvzza,uXak
uuuuuuNdrczfkuZq,uoh.scouvoudfubfcrdfr!uBrubcucsaogyu.y.gz bxock”

uuuuuuDucvdgguigyuzauvzrquqdxuigsrroaoxud.azccuzsau drq,udfxubfudf
uuuuuubfcrdfruCrd gorzfundcuascqbftunbrquohradzaxbfdayuofoatyudfxuc oox
uuuuuubfu sacsbruziubrkuRzuvyuxbcvdyurqou.aodrsaouigonucradbtqruizaurqo
uuuuuutaodruvbao,udfxuvyud.esdbfrdf.oufopoau dscoxuizaudfubfcrdfr,
uuuuuumzsfxbftuiazvursirurzursirumoqbfxubr,uqbcutaoofuforundpbftubfurqo
uuuuuudbakuQbcutaoyu.gzrqocudfxuwoajy,ulbtldt,ubaaotsgdau aztaoccuvdxo
uuuuuuqbvufzrusfgbjouczvouqstouvzrquqbvcogikuBundcucrdfxbftundr.qbft
uuuuuuqbcu sacsbrunbrquduvbhrsaouziudxvbadrbzfuizauqbcuohradzaxbfday
uuuuuud.rbpbryudfxuiodaugocruqoucqzsgxugzcouqbcuizzrbftubfurqo
uuuuuuraod.qoazscuvbao,unqofuBuqodaxurqouczsfxuziucro cudfx,ursafbft
uuuuuuazsfx,uizsfxudunzvdfufodauvous zfurqou drqkuCqouqdxu.zvouiazvurqo
uuuuuuxbao.rbzfubfunqb.qurqou gsvouziucvzjoubfxb.droxurqou zcbrbzfuzi
uuuuuuVoaab bruQzsco,umsrurqouxb uziurqouvzzauqdxuqbxuqoausfrbgucqoundc
uuuuuuesbrou.gzcok

uuuuuuBu.zsgxufzruxzsmrurqdrurqbcundcurqouVbccuCrd gorzfuziunqzvuBuqdx
uuuuuumoofurzgx,ucbf.ougdxbocuziudfyuczaruvscrumouionus zfurqouvzza,
uuuuuudfxuBuaovovmoaoxurqdruBuqdxuqodaxuczvozfouxoc.abmouqoaudcumobftud
uuuuuumodsrykuRqounzvdfunqzud  azd.qoxuvoundcu.oardbfgyurqdr,udfxuziud
uuuuuuvzcrusf.zvvzfury okuRqoaou.zsgxufzruqdpoumoofudutaodroau.zfradcr
uuuuuumornoofumazrqoaudfxucbcroa,uizauCrd gorzfundcufosradgurbfrox,
uuuuuunbrqugbtqruqdbaudfxutaoyuoyoc,unqbgoucqoundcuxdajoaurqdfudfy
uuuuuumasforrounqzvuBuqdpoucoofubfuOftgdfx—cgbv,uogotdfr,udfxurdggkuCqo
uuuuuuqdxudu azsx,uibfogyu.sruid.o,uczuaotsgdaurqdrubruvbtqruqdpo
uuuuuucoovoxubv dccbpounoaoubrufzruizaurqoucofcbrbpouvzsrqudfxurqo
uuuuuumodsrbisguxdaj,uodtoauoyockuNbrquqoau oaio.ruibtsaoudfxuogotdfr
uuuuuuxaoccucqoundc,ubfxoox,uducradftoud  dabrbzfus zfudugzfogy
uuuuuuvzzagdfxu drqkuQoauoyocunoaouzfuqoaumazrqoaudcuBursafox,udfxurqof
uuuuuucqouesb.jofoxuqoau d.ourzndaxcuvokuBuqdxuadbcoxuvyuqdrudfxundc
uuuuuudmzsrurzuvdjouczvouoh gdfdrzayuaovdajunqofuqoauznfunzaxcursafox
uuuuuudgguvyurqzstqrcubfrzudufonu.qdffogk

uuuuuu“Tzumd.j!”ucqoucdbxku“Tzucradbtqrumd.jurzuGzfxzf,ubfcrdfrgyk”

uuuuuuBu.zsgxuzfgyucrdaoudruqoaubfucrs bxucsa abcokuQoauoyocumgdloxudr
uuuuuuvo,udfxucqourd  oxurqoutazsfxubv drbofrgyunbrquqoauizzrk

uuuuuu“NqyucqzsgxuButzumd.j?”uBudcjoxk

uuuuuu“Bu.dffzruoh gdbfk”uCqouc zjoubfudugzn,uodtoaupzb.o,unbrqud
uuuuuu.sabzscugbc ubfuqoausrroadf.oku“MsruizauTzx’cucdjouxzunqdruBudcj
uuuuuuyzskuTzumd.judfxufopoaucoruizzrus zfurqouvzzaudtdbfk”

uuuuuu“MsruBuqdpouzfgyuwscru.zvok”

uuuuuu“Vdf,uvdf!”ucqou.aboxku“.dfuyzsufzruroggunqofudundafbftubcuiza
uuuuuuyzsauznfutzzx?uTzumd.jurzuGzfxzf!uCrdarurzfbtqr!uTorudndyuiazv
uuuuuurqbcu gd.oudrudggu.zcrc!uQscq,uvyumazrqoaubcu.zvbft!uFzrudunzax
uuuuuuziunqdruBuqdpoucdbxkuNzsgxuyzsuvbfxutorrbfturqdruza.qbxuizauvo
uuuuuudvzfturqouvdao’c-rdbgcuyzfxoa?uNoudaoupoayuab.qubfuza.qbxcuzfurqo
uuuuuuvzza,urqzstq,uziu.zsaco,uyzsudaouadrqoaugdrourzucoourqoumodsrboc
uuuuuuziurqou gd.ok”

uuuuuuCrd gorzfuqdxudmdfxzfoxurqou.qdcoudfxu.dvoumd.jurzuscumaodrqbft
uuuuuuqdaxudfxuigscqoxunbrquqbcuohoarbzfck

uuuuuu“Qdggzd,uMoayg!”ucdbxuqo,udfxubrucoovoxurzuvourqdrurqourzfouzi
uuuuuuqbcutaoorbftundcufzrudgrztorqoaudu.zaxbdguzfok

uuuuuu“Nogg,uWd.j,uyzsudaoupoayuqzrk”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uBundcu.qdcbftudu.y.gz bxockuQoubcupoayuadaoudfxucogxzv
uuuuuuizsfxubfurqougdroudsrsvfkuNqdrudu bryurqdruBucqzsgxuqdpouvbccox
uuuuuuqbv!”uQouc zjousf.zf.oafoxgy,umsruqbcucvdggugbtqruoyocutgdf.ox
uuuuuubf.occdfrgyuiazvurqoutbagurzuvok

uuuuuu“Yzsuqdpoubfrazxs.oxuyzsacogpoc,uBu.dfucook”

uuuuuu“YockuBundcuroggbftuCbauQofayurqdrubrundcuadrqoaugdrouizauqbvurz
uuuuuucoourqourasoumodsrbocuziurqouvzzak”

uuuuuu“Nqy,unqzuxzuyzsurqbfjurqbcubc?”

uuuuuu“BubvdtbfourqdrubruvscrumouCbauQofayuMdcjoapbggok”

uuuuuu“Fz,ufz,”ucdbxuBku“Zfgyuduqsvmgou.zvvzfoa,umsruqbcuiabofxkuVy
uuuuuufdvoubcuXakuNdrczfk”

uuuuuuDuigscquziupohdrbzfu dccoxuzpoauqoauoh aoccbpouid.oku“Nouqdpo
uuuuuumoofurdgjbftudru.azccu sa zcoc,”ucdbxucqok

uuuuuu“Nqy,uyzsuqdxufzrupoayuvs.qurbvouizaurdgj,”uqoaumazrqoauaovdajox
uuuuuunbrqurqoucdvouesocrbzfbftuoyock

uuuuuu“BurdgjoxudcubiuXakuNdrczfunoaouduaocbxofrubfcrodxuziumobft
uuuuuuvoaogyudupbcbrza,”ucdbxucqoku“Bru.dffzruvs.quvdrroaurzuqbv
uuuuuunqorqoaubrubcuodagyuzaugdrouizaurqouza.qbxckuMsruyzsunbggu.zvo
uuuuuuzf,unbgguyzsufzr,udfxucoouVoaab bruQzsco?”

uuuuuuDucqzarundgjumazstqruscurzubr,udumgodjuvzzagdfxuqzsco,uzf.ourqo
uuuuuuidavuziuczvoutadlboaubfurqouzgxu azc oazscuxdyc,umsrufznu srubfrz
uuuuuuao dbaudfxursafoxubfrzuduvzxoafuxnoggbftkuDfuza.qdaxucsaazsfxox
uuuuuubr,umsrurqouraooc,udcubcuscsdgus zfurqouvzza,unoaoucrsfroxudfx
uuuuuufb  ox,udfxurqouoiio.ruziurqounqzgou gd.oundcuvodfudfx
uuuuuuvogdf.qzgykuNounoaoudxvbrroxumyuducradfto,unblofox,uascry-.zdrox
uuuuuuzgxuvdfcoapdfr,unqzucoovoxubfujoo bftunbrqurqouqzscokuBfcbxo,
uuuuuuqznopoa,urqoaounoaougdatouazzvcuisafbcqoxunbrqudfuogotdf.oubf
uuuuuunqb.quBucoovoxurzuao.ztfblourqourdcrouziurqougdxykuDcuBugzzjox
uuuuuuiazvurqobaunbfxzncudrurqoubfroavbfdmgoutadfbro-igo.joxuvzza
uuuuuuazggbftusfmazjofurzurqouidarqocruqzablzfuBu.zsgxufzrumsruvdapog
uuuuuudrunqdru.zsgxuqdpoumazstqrurqbcuqbtqgyuoxs.droxuvdfudfxurqbc
uuuuuumodsrbisgunzvdfurzugbpoubfucs.qudu gd.ok

uuuuuu“Esooauc zrurzu.qzzco,ubcubrufzr?”ucdbxuqoudcubiubfudfcnoaurzuvy
uuuuuurqzstqrku“Dfxuyorunouvdfdtourzuvdjouzsacogpocuidbagyuqd  y,uxzuno
uuuuuufzr,uMoayg?”

uuuuuu“Esbrouqd  y,”ucdbxucqo,umsrurqoaoundcufzuabftuziu.zfpb.rbzfubf
uuuuuuqoaunzaxck

uuuuuu“Buqdxuduc.qzzg,”ucdbxuCrd gorzfku“Brundcubfurqoufzarqu.zsfrayk
uuuuuuRqounzajurzuduvdfuziuvyurov oadvofrundcuvo.qdfb.dgudfx
uuuuuusfbfroaocrbft,umsrurqou abpbgotouziugbpbftunbrquyzsrq,uziuqog bft
uuuuuurzuvzsgxurqzcouyzsftuvbfxc,udfxuziubv aoccbfturqovunbrquzfo’cuznf
uuuuuu.qdad.roaudfxubxodgcundcupoayuxodaurzuvokuQznopoa,urqouidrocunoao
uuuuuudtdbfcrusckuDucoabzscuo bxovb.umazjouzsrubfurqouc.qzzgudfxurqaoo
uuuuuuziurqoumzycuxboxkuBrufopoauao.zpoaoxuiazvurqoumgzn,udfxuvs.quzi
uuuuuuvyu.d brdgundcubaaorabopdmgyucndggznoxus kuDfxuyor,ubiubrunoao
uuuuuufzruizaurqougzccuziurqou.qdavbftu.zv dfbzfcqb uziurqoumzyc,uB
uuuuuu.zsgxuaowzb.ouzpoauvyuznfuvbcizarsfo,uiza,unbrquvyucrazfturdcroc
uuuuuuizaumzrdfyudfxulzzgzty,uBuibfxudfusfgbvbroxuibogxuziunzajuqoao,
uuuuuudfxuvyucbcroaubcudcuxopzroxurzuFdrsaoudcuBudvkuDggurqbc,uXak
uuuuuuNdrczf,uqdcumoofumazstqrus zfuyzsauqodxumyuyzsauoh aoccbzfudcuyzs
uuuuuucsapoyoxurqouvzzauzsruziuzsaunbfxznk”

uuuuuu“Bru.oardbfgyuxbxu.azccuvyuvbfxurqdrubruvbtqrumoudugbrrgo
uuuuuuxsgg—goccuizauyzs,u oaqd c,urqdfuizauyzsaucbcroak”

uuuuuu“Fz,ufz,uBudvufopoauxsgg,”ucdbxucqouesb.jgyk

uuuuuu“Nouqdpoumzzjc,unouqdpouzsaucrsxboc,udfxunouqdpoubfroaocrbft
uuuuuufobtqmzsackuXakuVzarbvoaubcuduvzcrugodafoxuvdfubfuqbcuznfugbfok
uuuuuu zzauCbau.qdagocundcudgczudfudxvbadmgou.zv dfbzfkuNoujfonuqbv
uuuuuunoggudfxuvbccuqbvuvzaourqdfuBu.dfuroggkuXzuyzsurqbfjurqdruB
uuuuuucqzsgxubfrasxoubiuBunoaourzu.dggurqbcudiroafzzfudfxuvdjourqo
uuuuuud.esdbfrdf.ouziuCbauQofay?”

uuuuuu“Budvucsaourqdruqounzsgxumouxogbtqroxk”

uuuuuu“Rqofu oaqd cuyzsunzsgxuvofrbzfurqdruBu az zcourzuxzuczkuNouvdy
uuuuuubfuzsauqsvmgoundyuxzuczvorqbfturzuvdjourqbftcuvzaouodcyuizauqbv
uuuuuusfrbguqoumo.zvocud..scrzvoxurzuqbcufonucsaazsfxbftckuNbgguyzs
uuuuuu.zvous crdbac,uXakuNdrczf,udfxubfc o.ruvyu.zggo.rbzfuzi
uuuuuuGo bxz road?uBurqbfjubrubcurqouvzcru.zv gorouzfoubfurqo
uuuuuuczsrq-nocruziuOftgdfxkuMyurqourbvourqdruyzsuqdpougzzjoxurqazstq
uuuuuurqovugsf.qunbggumoudgvzcruaodxyk”

uuuuuuMsruBundcuodtoaurzutorumd.jurzuvyu.qdatokuRqouvogdf.qzgyuziurqo
uuuuuuvzza,urqouxodrquziurqousfizarsfdrou zfy,urqounobaxuczsfxunqb.q
uuuuuuqdxumoofudccz.bdroxunbrqurqoutabvugotofxuziurqouMdcjoapbggoc,udgg
uuuuuurqocourqbftcurbftoxuvyurqzstqrcunbrqucdxfocckuRqofuzfurqourz uzi
uuuuuurqocouvzaouzaugoccupdtsoubv aoccbzfcurqoaouqdxu.zvourqouxoibfbro
uuuuuudfxuxbcrbf.rundafbftuziuVbccuCrd gorzf,uxogbpoaoxunbrqucs.q
uuuuuubfrofcouodafocrfoccurqdruBu.zsgxufzruxzsmrurqdruczvoutadpoudfx
uuuuuuxoo uaodczfugdyumoqbfxubrkuBuaocbcroxudggu aoccsaourzucrdyuiza
uuuuuugsf.q,udfxuBucoruziiudruzf.ous zfuvyuaorsafuwzsafoy,urdjbfturqo
uuuuuutadcc-taznfu drqumyunqb.qunouqdxu.zvok

uuuuuuBrucoovc,uqznopoa,urqdrurqoaouvscruqdpoumoofuczvoucqzaru.sruiza
uuuuuurqzcounqzujfonubr,uizaumoizaouBuqdxuaod.qoxurqouazdxuBundc
uuuuuudcrzsfxoxurzucoouVbccuCrd gorzfucbrrbftus zfuduaz.jumyurqoucbxo
uuuuuuziurqourad.jkuQoauid.oundcumodsrbisggyuigscqoxunbrquqoauohoarbzfc
uuuuuudfxucqouqogxuqoauqdfxurzuqoaucbxok

uuuuuu“Buqdpouasfudggurqoundyubfuzaxoaurzu.sruyzsuzii,uXakuNdrczf,”
uuuuuucdbxucqoku“Buqdxufzruopofurbvourzu sruzfuvyuqdrkuBuvscrufzrucrz ,
uuuuuuzauvyumazrqoauvdyuvbccuvokuBundfroxurzucdyurzuyzsuqznuczaayuBudv
uuuuuudmzsrurqoucrs bxuvbcrdjouBuvdxoubfurqbfjbfturqdruyzsunoaouCba
uuuuuuQofayku godcouizatorurqounzaxcuBucdbx,unqb.quqdpoufzud  gb.drbzf
uuuuuunqdropoaurzuyzsk”

uuuuuu“MsruBu.df’ruizatorurqov,uVbccuCrd gorzf,”ucdbxuBku“BudvuCba
uuuuuuQofay’cuiabofx,udfxuqbcunogidaoubcudupoayu.gzcou.zf.oafuziuvbfok
uuuuuuRogguvounqyubrundcurqdruyzsunoaouczuodtoaurqdruCbauQofayucqzsgx
uuuuuuaorsafurzuGzfxzfk”

uuuuuu“Dunzvdf’cunqbv,uXakuNdrczfkuNqofuyzsujfznuvoumorroauyzsunbgg
uuuuuusfxoacrdfxurqdruBu.dffzrudgndycutbpouaodczfcuizaunqdruBucdyuza
uuuuuuxzk”

uuuuuu“Fz,ufzkuBuaovovmoaurqourqabggubfuyzsaupzb.okuBuaovovmoaurqougzzj
uuuuuubfuyzsauoyocku godco,u godco,umouiadfjunbrquvo,uVbccuCrd gorzf,
uuuuuuizauopoaucbf.ouBuqdpoumoofuqoaouBuqdpoumoofu.zfc.bzscuziucqdxznc
uuuuuudgguazsfxuvokuGbiouqdcumo.zvougbjourqdrutaodruTabv ofuVbao,unbrq
uuuuuugbrrgoutaoofu dr.qocuopoaynqoaoubfrzunqb.quzfouvdyucbfjudfxunbrq
uuuuuufzutsbxourzu zbfrurqourad.jkuRogguvourqofunqdrubrundcurqdruyzs
uuuuuuvodfr,udfxuBunbggu azvbcourzu.zfpoyuyzsaundafbfturzuCbauQofayk”

uuuuuuDfuoh aoccbzfuziubaaoczgsrbzfu dccoxuizaudfubfcrdfruzpoauqoa
uuuuuuid.o,umsruqoauoyocuqdxuqdaxofoxudtdbfunqofucqoudfcnoaoxuvok

uuuuuu“Yzsuvdjourzzuvs.quziubr,uXakuNdrczf,”ucdbxucqoku“Vyumazrqoaudfx
uuuuuuBunoaoupoayuvs.qucqz.joxumyurqouxodrquziuCbau.qdagockuNoujfonuqbv
uuuuuupoayubfrbvdrogy,uizauqbcuidpzsabroundgjundcuzpoaurqouvzzaurzuzsa
uuuuuuqzscokuQoundcuxoo gyubv aoccoxunbrqurqou.sacounqb.quqsftuzpoaurqo
uuuuuuidvbgy,udfxunqofurqbcuradtoxyu.dvouBufdrsadggyuiogrurqdrurqoao
uuuuuuvscrumouczvoutazsfxcuizaurqouiodacunqb.quqouqdxuoh aoccoxkuBundc
uuuuuuxbcraoccoxurqoaoizaounqofudfzrqoauvovmoauziurqouidvbgyu.dvouxznf
uuuuuurzugbpouqoao,udfxuBuiogrurqdruqoucqzsgxumoundafoxuziurqouxdftoa
uuuuuunqb.quqounbgguasfkuRqdrundcudggunqb.quBubfrofxoxurzu.zfpoyk

uuuuuu“Msrunqdrubcurqouxdftoa?”

uuuuuu“Yzsujfznurqoucrzayuziurqouqzsfx?”

uuuuuu“Buxzufzrumogbopoubfucs.qufzfcofcok”

uuuuuu“MsruBuxzkuBiuyzsuqdpoudfyubfigsof.ounbrquCbauQofay,urdjouqbv
uuuuuudndyuiazvudu gd.ounqb.quqdcudgndycumoofuidrdgurzuqbcuidvbgykuRqo
uuuuuunzagxubcunbxokuNqyucqzsgxuqounbcqurzugbpoudrurqou gd.ouzi
uuuuuuxdftoa?”

uuuuuu“Mo.dscoubru_bc_urqou gd.ouziuxdftoakuRqdrubcuCbauQofay’cufdrsaok
uuuuuuBuiodaurqdrusfgoccuyzsu.dfutbpouvouczvouvzaouxoibfbroubfizavdrbzf
uuuuuurqdfurqbcubrunzsgxumoubv zccbmgourzutoruqbvurzuvzpok”

uuuuuu“Bu.dffzrucdyudfyrqbftuxoibfbro,uizauBuxzufzrujfznudfyrqbft
uuuuuuxoibfbrok”

uuuuuu“Bunzsgxudcjuyzsuzfouvzaouesocrbzf,uVbccuCrd gorzfkuBiuyzsuvodfr
uuuuuufzuvzaourqdfurqbcunqofuyzsuibacruc zjourzuvo,unqyucqzsgxuyzsufzr
uuuuuunbcquyzsaumazrqoaurzuzpoaqodaunqdruyzsucdbx?uRqoaoubcufzrqbfturz
uuuuuunqb.quqo,uzaudfyzfouogco,u.zsgxuzmwo.rk”

uuuuuu“VyumazrqoaubcupoayudfhbzscurzuqdpourqouQdggubfqdmbrox,uizauqo
uuuuuurqbfjcubrubcuizaurqoutzzxuziurqou zzauizgjus zfurqouvzzakuQo
uuuuuunzsgxumoupoayudftayubiuqoujfonurqdruBuqdpoucdbxudfyrqbftunqb.q
uuuuuuvbtqrubfxs.ouCbauQofayurzutzudndykuMsruBuqdpouxzfouvyuxsryufzn
uuuuuudfxuBunbggucdyufzuvzaokuBuvscrutzumd.j,uzauqounbgguvbccuvoudfx
uuuuuucsc o.rurqdruBuqdpoucoofuyzskuTzzx-myo!”uCqoursafoxudfxuqdx
uuuuuuxbcd  odaoxubfuduionuvbfsrocudvzfturqouc.drroaoxumzsgxoac,unqbgo
uuuuuuB,unbrquvyuczsguisgguziupdtsouiodac,u sacsoxuvyundyurz
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggouQdggk



.qd roau8k

IbacruAo zaruziuXakuNdrczf

uuuuuuIazvurqbcu zbfruzfndaxuBunbgguizggznurqou.zsacouziuopofrcumy
uuuuuuradfc.abmbftuvyuznfugorroacurzuVakuCqoagz.juQzgvocunqb.qugbo
uuuuuumoizaouvouzfurqourdmgokuZfou dtoubcuvbccbft,umsruzrqoanbcourqoy
uuuuuudaouohd.rgyudcunabrrofudfxucqznuvyuioogbftcudfxucsc b.bzfcuziurqo
uuuuuuvzvofruvzaoud..sadrogyurqdfuvyuvovzay,u.godaudcubrubcus zfurqoco
uuuuuuradtb.uopofrc,u.dfu zccbmgyuxzk

uuuuuuMdcjoapbggouQdgg,uZ.rzmoau13rqk

uuuuuuVYuXODAuQZGVOC,

uuuuuuVyu aopbzscugorroacudfxurogotadvcuqdpoujo ruyzsu aorryunoggus urz
uuuuuuxdroudcurzudggurqdruqdcuz..saaoxubfurqbcuvzcruTzx-izacdjofu.zafoa
uuuuuuziurqounzagxkuRqougzftoauzfoucrdycuqoaourqouvzaouxzocurqouc babr
uuuuuuziurqouvzzaucbfjubfrzuzfo’cuczsg,ubrcupdcrfocc,udfxudgczubrcutabv
uuuuuu.qdavkuNqofuyzsudaouzf.ouzsrus zfubrcumzczvuyzsuqdpougoirudgg
uuuuuurad.ocuziuvzxoafuOftgdfxumoqbfxuyzs,umsr,uzfurqouzrqoauqdfx,uyzs
uuuuuudaou.zfc.bzscuopoaynqoaouziurqouqzvocudfxurqounzajuziurqo
uuuuuu aoqbcrzab.u oz gokuZfudggucbxocuziuyzsudcuyzsundgjudaourqo
uuuuuuqzscocuziurqocouizatzrrofuizgj,unbrqurqobautadpocudfxurqouqsto
uuuuuuvzfzgbrqcunqb.qudaoucs  zcoxurzuqdpouvdajoxurqobaurov gockuDcuyzs
uuuuuugzzjudrurqobautaoyucrzfouqsrcudtdbfcrurqouc.daaoxuqbggcbxocuyzs
uuuuuugodpouyzsauznfudtoumoqbfxuyzs,udfxubiuyzsunoaourzucooud
uuuuuucjbf-.gdx,uqdbayuvdfu.adnguzsruiazvurqougznuxzzauibrrbftud
uuuuuuigbfr-rb  oxudaaznuzfurzurqoucrabftuziuqbcumzn,uyzsunzsgxuioog
uuuuuurqdruqbcu aocof.ourqoaoundcuvzaoufdrsadgurqdfuyzsauznfkuRqo
uuuuuucradftourqbftubcurqdrurqoyucqzsgxuqdpougbpoxuczurqb.jgyuzfunqdr
uuuuuuvscrudgndycuqdpoumoofuvzcrusfiasbrisguczbgkuBudvufzudfrbesdabdf,
uuuuuumsruBu.zsgxubvdtbfourqdrurqoyunoaouczvousfndagbjoudfxuqdaabox
uuuuuuad.ounqzunoaouiza.oxurzud..o rurqdrunqb.qufzfouzrqoaunzsgx
uuuuuuz..s yk

uuuuuuDggurqbc,uqznopoa,ubcuizaobtfurzurqouvbccbzfuzfunqb.quyzsucofruvo
uuuuuudfxunbggu azmdmgyumoupoayusfbfroaocrbfturzuyzsaucopoaogy
uuuuuu ad.rb.dguvbfxkuBu.dfucrbgguaovovmoauyzsau.zv goroubfxbiioaof.o
uuuuuudcurzunqorqoaurqoucsfuvzpoxuazsfxurqouodarquzaurqouodarquazsfx
uuuuuurqoucsfkuGoruvo,urqoaoizao,uaorsafurzurqouid.rcu.zf.oafbftuCba
uuuuuuQofayuMdcjoapbggok

uuuuuuBiuyzsuqdpoufzruqdxudfyuao zarunbrqbfurqougdcruionuxdycubrubc
uuuuuumo.dscous urzurzxdyurqoaoundcufzrqbftuziubv zardf.ourzuaogdrok
uuuuuuRqofudupoayucsa abcbftu.ba.svcrdf.ouz..saaox,unqb.quBucqdggurogg
uuuuuuyzsubfuxsou.zsacokuMsr,uibacruziudgg,uBuvscrujoo uyzsubfurzs.q
uuuuuunbrquczvouziurqouzrqoauid.rzacubfurqoucbrsdrbzfk

uuuuuuZfouziurqoco,u.zf.oafbftunqb.quBuqdpoucdbxugbrrgo,ubcurqouoc.d ox
uuuuuu.zfpb.rus zfurqouvzzakuRqoaoubcucrazftuaodczfufznurzumogbopourqdr
uuuuuuqouqdcutzruabtqrudndy,unqb.qubcudu.zfcbxoadmgouaogboiurzurqo
uuuuuugzfogyuqzscoqzgxoacuziurqbcuxbcrab.rkuDuizarfbtqruqdcu dccox
uuuuuucbf.ouqbcuigbtqr,uxsabftunqb.quqouqdcufzrumoofucoofudfxufzrqbft
uuuuuuqdcumoofuqodaxuziuqbvkuBrubcucsaogyubf.zf.obpdmgourqdruqou.zsgx
uuuuuuqdpouqogxuzsrus zfurqouvzzauxsabftudggurqdrurbvokuZiu.zsaco,ucz
uuuuuuidaudcuqbcu.zf.odgvofrutzocurqoaoubcufzuxbiib.sgryudrudggkuDfy
uuuuuuzfouziurqocoucrzfouqsrcunzsgxutbpouqbvuduqbxbft- gd.okuMsrurqoao
uuuuuubcufzrqbfturzuodrusfgoccuqounoaourzu.dr.qudfxucgdstqroauzfouzi
uuuuuurqouvzzaucqoo kuNourqbfj,urqoaoizao,urqdruqouqdcutzfo,udfxurqo
uuuuuuzsrgybftuidavoacucgoo urqoumorroaubfu.zfcoesof.ok

uuuuuuNoudaouizsaudmgo-mzxboxuvofubfurqbcuqzscoqzgx,uczurqdrunou.zsgx
uuuuuurdjoutzzxu.daouziuzsacogpoc,umsruBu.zfioccurqdruBuqdpouqdxusfodcy
uuuuuuvzvofrcunqofuBuqdpourqzstqruziurqouCrd gorzfckuRqoyugbpouvbgoc
uuuuuuiazvudfyuqog kuRqoaoudaouzfouvdbx,udfuzgxuvdfcoapdfr,urqoucbcroa,
uuuuuudfxurqoumazrqoa,urqougdrroaufzrudupoayucrazftuvdfkuRqoyunzsgxumo
uuuuuuqog goccubfurqouqdfxcuziuduxoc oadrouioggznugbjourqbcuFzrrbft
uuuuuuQbggu.abvbfdgubiuqou.zsgxuzf.ouoiio.rudfuofradf.okuMzrquCbauQofay
uuuuuudfxuBunoaou.zf.oafoxudrurqobaucbrsdrbzf,udfxubrundcucsttocrox
uuuuuurqdru oajbfcurqoutazzvucqzsgxutzuzpoaurzucgoo urqoao,umsr
uuuuuuCrd gorzfunzsgxufzruqodauziubrk

uuuuuuRqouid.rubcurqdruzsauiabofx,urqoumdazfor,umotbfcurzuxbc gdyud
uuuuuu.zfcbxoadmgoubfroaocrubfuzsauidbaufobtqmzsakuBrubcufzrurzumo
uuuuuunzfxoaoxudr,uizaurbvouqdftcuqodpbgyubfurqbcugzfogyuc zrurzudf
uuuuuud.rbpouvdfugbjouqbv,udfxucqoubcudupoayuidc.bfdrbftudfxumodsrbisg
uuuuuunzvdfkuRqoaoubcuczvorqbfturaz b.dgudfxuohzrb.udmzsruqoaunqb.q
uuuuuuizavcuducbftsgdau.zfradcrurzuqoau.zzgudfxusfovzrbzfdgumazrqoak
uuuuuuYoruqoudgczutbpocurqoubxoduziuqbxxofuibaockuQouqdcu.oardbfgyud
uuuuuupoayuvdajoxubfigsof.ouzpoauqoa,uizauBuqdpoucoofuqoau.zfrbfsdggy
uuuuuutgdf.oudruqbvudcucqourdgjoxudcubiucoojbftud  azmdrbzfuizaunqdr
uuuuuucqoucdbxkuBurascrurqdruqoubcujbfxurzuqoakuRqoaoubcuduxayutgbrroa
uuuuuubfuqbcuoyocudfxuduibavucoruziuqbcurqbfugb c,unqb.qutzocunbrqud
uuuuuu zcbrbpoudfxu zccbmgyuduqdacqufdrsaokuYzsunzsgxuibfxuqbvudf
uuuuuubfroaocrbftucrsxyk

uuuuuuQou.dvouzpoaurzu.dggus zfuMdcjoapbggouzfurqdruibacruxdy,udfxurqo
uuuuuupoayufohruvzafbftuqourzzjuscumzrqurzucqznuscurqouc zrunqoaourqo
uuuuuugotofxuziurqounb.joxuQstzubcucs  zcoxurzuqdpouqdxubrcuzabtbfkuBr
uuuuuundcudfuoh.sacbzfuziuczvouvbgocud.azccurqouvzzaurzudu gd.ounqb.q
uuuuuubcuczuxbcvdgurqdrubruvbtqruqdpoucsttocroxurqoucrzaykuNouizsfxud
uuuuuucqzarupdggoyumornoofuasttoxurzacunqb.qugoxurzudfuz of,utadccy
uuuuuuc d.ouigo.joxuzpoaunbrqurqounqbrou.zrrzfutadcckuBfurqouvbxxgouzi
uuuuuubruazcournzutaodrucrzfoc,unzafudfxucqda ofoxudrurqous  oauofx
uuuuuusfrbgurqoyugzzjoxugbjourqouqstou.zaazxbftuidftcuziuczvouvzfcrazsc
uuuuuumodcrkuBfuopoayundyubru.zaaoc zfxoxunbrqurqouc.ofouziurqouzgx
uuuuuuradtoxykuCbauQofayundcuvs.qubfroaocroxudfxudcjoxuCrd gorzfuvzao
uuuuuurqdfuzf.ounqorqoauqouxbxuaodggyumogbopoubfurqou zccbmbgbryuziurqo
uuuuuubfroaioaof.ouziurqoucs oafdrsadgubfurqoudiidbacuziuvofkuQouc zjo
uuuuuugbtqrgy,umsrubrundcuopbxofrurqdruqoundcupoayuvs.qubfuodafocrk
uuuuuuCrd gorzfundcutsdaxoxubfuqbcuao gboc,umsrubrundcuodcyurzucoourqdr
uuuuuuqoucdbxugoccurqdfuqouvbtqr,udfxurqdruqounzsgxufzruoh aoccuqbc
uuuuuunqzgouz bfbzfuzsruziu.zfcbxoadrbzfuizaurqouioogbftcuziurqo
uuuuuumdazforkuQourzgxuscuziucbvbgdau.dcoc,unqoaouidvbgbocuqdxucsiioaox
uuuuuuiazvuczvouopbgubfigsof.o,udfxuqougoiruscunbrqurqoubv aoccbzfurqdr
uuuuuuqoucqdaoxurqou z sgdaupbonus zfurqouvdrroak

uuuuuuZfuzsaundyumd.junoucrdyoxuizaugsf.qudruVoaab bruQzsco,udfxubrundc
uuuuuurqoaourqdruCbauQofayuvdxourqoud.esdbfrdf.ouziuVbccuCrd gorzfk
uuuuuuIazvurqouibacruvzvofrurqdruqoucdnuqoauqoud  odaoxurzumoucrazftgy
uuuuuudrrad.roxumyuqoa,udfxuBudvuvs.quvbcrdjofubiurqouioogbftundcufzr
uuuuuuvsrsdgkuQouaoioaaoxurzuqoaudtdbfudfxudtdbfuzfuzsaundgjuqzvo,udfx
uuuuuucbf.ourqofuqdaxgyuduxdyuqdcu dccoxurqdrunouqdpoufzrucoof
uuuuuuczvorqbftuziurqoumazrqoaudfxucbcroakuRqoyuxbfouqoaourzfbtqr,udfx
uuuuuurqoaoubcuczvourdgjuziuzsautzbfturzurqovufohrunoojkuZfounzsgx
uuuuuubvdtbfourqdrucs.quduvdr.qunzsgxumoupoayunog.zvourzuCrd gorzf,udfx
uuuuuuyoruBuqdpouvzaourqdfuzf.ou.dstqrudugzzjuziurqoucrazftocr
uuuuuuxbcd  azmdrbzfubfuqbcuid.ounqofuCbauQofayuqdcumoofu dybftuczvo
uuuuuudrrofrbzfurzuqbcucbcroakuQoubcuvs.qudrrd.qoxurzuqoa,ufzuxzsmr,
uuuuuudfxunzsgxugodxudugzfogyugbiounbrqzsruqoa,umsrubrunzsgxucoovurqo
uuuuuuqobtqruziucogibcqfoccubiuqounoaourzucrdfxubfurqoundyuziuqoa
uuuuuuvdjbftuczumabggbdfruduvdaabdtokuYoruBudvu.oardbfurqdruqouxzocufzr
uuuuuunbcqurqobaubfrbvd.yurzuab ofubfrzugzpo,udfxuBuqdpoucopoadgurbvoc
uuuuuuzmcoapoxurqdruqouqdcurdjofu dbfcurzu aopofrurqovuiazvumobft
uuuuuu_rêro-à-rêro_kuMyurqoundy,uyzsaubfcras.rbzfcurzuvoufopoaurzudggzn
uuuuuuCbauQofayurzutzuzsrudgzfounbggumo.zvoupoayuvs.quvzaouzfoazscubiud
uuuuuugzpoudiidbaunoaourzumoudxxoxurzuzsauzrqoauxbiib.sgrbockuVy
uuuuuu z sgdabryunzsgxuczzfucsiioaubiuBunoaourzu.daayuzsruyzsauzaxoac
uuuuuurzurqougorroak

uuuuuuRqouzrqoauxdy—Rqsacxdy,urzumouvzaouohd.r—XakuVzarbvoaugsf.qox
uuuuuunbrqusckuQouqdcumoofuoh.dpdrbftudumdaaznudruGzftuXznfudfxuqdcutzr
uuuuuudu aoqbcrzab.ucjsggunqb.quibggcuqbvunbrqutaodruwzykuFopoaundc
uuuuuurqoaoucs.quducbftgo-vbfxoxuofrqscbdcrudcuqo!uRqouCrd gorzfcu.dvo
uuuuuubfudiroandaxc,udfxurqoutzzxuxz.rzaurzzjuscudggurzurqouyonudggoy
uuuuuudruCbauQofay’cuaoesocrurzucqznuscuohd.rgyuqznuopoayrqbftuz..saaox
uuuuuus zfurqdruidrdgufbtqrkuBrubcudugzft,uxbcvdgundgj,urqouyonudggoy,
uuuuuumornoofurnzuqbtqundggcuziu.gb  oxuqoxto,unbrqudufdaaznumdfxuzi
uuuuuutadccus zfuobrqoaucbxokuDrurqouidauofxubcudfuzgxursvmgo-xznf
uuuuuucsvvoa-qzscokuQdgindyuxznfubcurqouvzza-tdro,unqoaourqouzgx
uuuuuutofrgovdfugoiruqbcu.btda-dcqkuBrubcudunqbrounzzxofutdrounbrqud
uuuuuugdr.qkuMoyzfxubrugbocurqounbxouvzzakuBuaovovmoaoxuyzsaurqozayuzi
uuuuuurqoudiidbaudfxuraboxurzu b.rsaoudggurqdruqdxuz..saaoxkuDcurqouzgx
uuuuuuvdfucrzzxurqoaouqoucdnuczvorqbftu.zvbftud.azccurqouvzza,
uuuuuuczvorqbftunqb.quroaabiboxuqbvuczurqdruqougzcruqbcunbrcudfxuadf
uuuuuudfxuadfusfrbguqouxboxuziucqooauqzaazaudfxuohqdscrbzfkuRqoaoundc
uuuuuurqougzft,utgzzvyursffoguxznfunqb.quqouigoxkuDfxuiazvunqdr?uD
uuuuuucqoo -xztuziurqouvzza?uZauduc o.radguqzsfx,umgd.j,ucbgofr,udfx
uuuuuuvzfcrazsc?uNdcurqoaouduqsvdfudtof.yubfurqouvdrroa?uXbxurqou dgo,
uuuuuundr.qisguMdaayvzaoujfznuvzaourqdfuqou.daoxurzucdy?uBrundcudgguxbv
uuuuuudfxupdtso,umsrudgndycurqoaoubcurqouxdajucqdxznuziu.abvoumoqbfx
uuuuuubrk

uuuuuuZfouzrqoaufobtqmzsauBuqdpouvorucbf.ouBunazrougdcrkuRqbcubcuVak
uuuuuuIadfjgdfx,uziuGdiroauQdgg,unqzugbpocuczvouizsauvbgocurzurqouczsrq
uuuuuuziusckuQoubcudfuogxoagyuvdf,uaox-id.ox,unqbro-qdbaox,udfx
uuuuuu.qzgoab.kuQbcu dccbzfubcuizaurqouMabrbcqugdn,udfxuqouqdcuc ofrud
uuuuuugdatouizarsfoubfugbrbtdrbzfkuQouibtqrcuizaurqouvoaou godcsaouzi
uuuuuuibtqrbftudfxubcuoesdggyuaodxyurzurdjous uobrqoaucbxouziud
uuuuuuesocrbzf,uczurqdrubrubcufzunzfxoaurqdruqouqdcuizsfxubrudu.zcrgy
uuuuuudvscovofrkuCzvorbvocuqounbggucqsrus uduabtqruziundyudfxuxoiyurqo
uuuuuu dabcqurzuvdjouqbvuz ofubrkuDruzrqoacuqounbggunbrquqbcuznfuqdfxc
uuuuuurodauxznfuczvouzrqoauvdf’cutdroudfxuxo.gdaourqdrudu drquqdc
uuuuuuohbcroxurqoaouiazvurbvoubvvovzabdg,uxoiybfturqouznfoaurz
uuuuuu azco.srouqbvuizauraoc dcckuQoubcugodafoxubfuzgxuvdfzabdgudfx
uuuuuu.zvvsfdguabtqrc,udfxuqoud  gbocuqbcujfzngoxtouczvorbvocubfuidpzsa
uuuuuuziurqoupbggdtoacuziuIoafnzarqyudfxuczvorbvocudtdbfcrurqov,ucz
uuuuuurqdruqoubcu oabzxb.dggyuobrqoau.daaboxubfurabsv quxznfurqo
uuuuuupbggdtoucraooruzauogcoumsafoxubfuoiibty,ud..zaxbfturzuqbcugdrocr
uuuuuuoh gzbrkuQoubcucdbxurzuqdpoudmzsrucopofugdncsbrcus zfuqbcuqdfxc
uuuuuudru aocofr,unqb.qunbggu azmdmgyucndggznus urqouaovdbfxoauziuqbc
uuuuuuizarsfoudfxuczuxadnuqbcucrbftudfxugodpouqbvuqdavgoccuizaurqo
uuuuuuisrsaokuD daruiazvurqougdnuqoucoovcudujbfxgy,utzzx-fdrsaox
uuuuuu oaczf,udfxuBuzfgyuvofrbzfuqbvumo.dscouyzsunoaou darb.sgdaurqdruB
uuuuuucqzsgxucofxuczvouxoc.ab rbzfuziurqou oz gounqzucsaazsfxusckuQoubc
uuuuuu.sabzscgyuov gzyoxudru aocofr,uiza,umobftudfudvdrosaudcrazfzvoa,
uuuuuuqouqdcudfuoh.oggofrurogoc.z o,unbrqunqb.quqougbocus zfurqouazzi
uuuuuuziuqbcuznfuqzscoudfxucnoo curqouvzzaudgguxdyubfurqouqz ouzi
uuuuuu.dr.qbftudutgbv couziurqouoc.d oxu.zfpb.rkuBiuqounzsgxu.zfibfo
uuuuuuqbcuofoatbocurzurqbcudggunzsgxumounogg,umsrurqoaoudaouasvzsac
uuuuuurqdruqoubfrofxcurzu azco.srouXakuVzarbvoauizauz ofbftudutadpo
uuuuuunbrqzsrurqou.zfcofruziurqoufohruziujbfumo.dscouqouxstus urqo
uuuuuuFozgbrqb.ucjsggubfurqoumdaaznuzfuGzftuXznfkuQouqog curzujoo uzsa
uuuuuugbpocuiazvumobftuvzfzrzfzscudfxutbpocudugbrrgou.zvb.uaogboiunqoao
uuuuuubrubcumdxgyufooxoxk

uuuuuuDfxufzn,uqdpbftumazstqruyzsus urzuxdroubfurqouoc.d oxu.zfpb.r,
uuuuuurqouCrd gorzfc,uXakuVzarbvoa,udfxuIadfjgdfx,uziuGdiroauQdgg,ugor
uuuuuuvouofxuzfurqdrunqb.qubcuvzcrubv zardfrudfxurogguyzsuvzaoudmzsr
uuuuuurqouMdaayvzaoc,udfxuoc o.bdggyudmzsrurqoucsa abcbftuxopogz vofr
uuuuuuziugdcrufbtqrk

uuuuuuIbacruziudggudmzsrurqourocrurogotadv,unqb.quyzsucofruiazvuGzfxzf
uuuuuubfuzaxoaurzuvdjoucsaourqdruMdaayvzaoundcuaodggyuqoaokuBuqdpo
uuuuuudgaodxyuoh gdbfoxurqdrurqourocrbvzfyuziurqou zcrvdcroaucqzncurqdr
uuuuuurqourocrundcunzarqgoccudfxurqdrunouqdpoufzu azziuzfoundyuzaurqo
uuuuuuzrqoakuBurzgxuCbauQofayuqznurqouvdrroaucrzzx,udfxuqoudruzf.o,ubf
uuuuuuqbcuxznfabtqruidcqbzf,uqdxuMdaayvzaous udfxudcjoxuqbvunqorqoauqo
uuuuuuqdxuao.obpoxurqourogotadvuqbvcogikuMdaayvzaoucdbxurqdruqouqdxk

uuuuuu“Xbxurqoumzyuxogbpoaubrubfrzuyzsauznfuqdfxc?”udcjoxuCbauQofayk

uuuuuuMdaayvzaougzzjoxucsa abcox,udfxu.zfcbxoaoxuizaudugbrrgourbvok

uuuuuu“Fz,”ucdbxuqo,u“Bundcubfurqoumzh-azzvudrurqourbvo,udfxuvyunbio
uuuuuumazstqrubrus urzuvok”

uuuuuu“Xbxuyzsudfcnoaubruyzsacogi?”

uuuuuu“Fz;uBurzgxuvyunbiounqdrurzudfcnoaudfxucqounofruxznfurzunabro
uuuuuubrk”

uuuuuuBfurqouopofbftuqouao.saaoxurzurqoucsmwo.ruziuqbcuznfud..zaxk

uuuuuu“Bu.zsgxufzruesbrousfxoacrdfxurqouzmwo.ruziuyzsauesocrbzfcurqbc
uuuuuuvzafbft,uCbauQofay,”ucdbxuqoku“Burascrurqdrurqoyuxzufzruvodfurqdr
uuuuuuBuqdpouxzfoudfyrqbfturzuizaiobruyzsau.zfibxof.o?”

uuuuuuCbauQofayuqdxurzudccsaouqbvurqdrubrundcufzruczudfxu d.biyuqbvumy
uuuuuutbpbftuqbvudu.zfcbxoadmgou daruziuqbcuzgxundaxazmo,urqouGzfxzf
uuuuuuzsribruqdpbftufznudggudaabpoxk

uuuuuuVackuMdaayvzaoubcuziubfroaocrurzuvokuCqoubcuduqodpy,uczgbx
uuuuuu oaczf,upoayugbvbrox,ubfrofcogyuaoc o.rdmgo,udfxubf.gbfoxurzumo
uuuuuu sabrdfb.dgkuYzsu.zsgxuqdaxgyu.zf.obpoudugoccuovzrbzfdgucsmwo.rk
uuuuuuYoruBuqdpourzgxuyzsuqzn,uzfurqouibacrufbtqruqoao,uBuqodaxuqoa
uuuuuuczmmbftumbrroagy,udfxucbf.ourqofuBuqdpouvzaourqdfuzf.ouzmcoapox
uuuuuurad.ocuziurodacus zfuqoauid.okuCzvouxoo uczaaznutfdncuopoaudruqoa
uuuuuuqodarkuCzvorbvocuBunzfxoaubiucqouqdcudutsbgryuvovzayunqb.quqdsfrc
uuuuuuqoa,udfxuczvorbvocuBucsc o.ruMdaayvzaouziumobftuduxzvocrb.
uuuuuuryadfrkuBuqdpoudgndycuiogrurqdrurqoaoundcuczvorqbftucbftsgdaudfx
uuuuuuesocrbzfdmgoubfurqbcuvdf’cu.qdad.roa,umsrurqoudxpofrsaouziugdcr
uuuuuufbtqrumabftcudgguvyucsc b.bzfcurzuduqodxk

uuuuuuDfxuyorubruvdyucoovuducvdgguvdrroaubfubrcogikuYzsudaoudndaourqdr
uuuuuuBudvufzrudupoayuczsfxucgoo oa,udfxucbf.ouBuqdpoumoofuzfutsdaxubf
uuuuuurqbcuqzscouvyucgsvmoacuqdpoumoofugbtqroaurqdfuopoakuGdcrufbtqr,
uuuuuudmzsrurnzubfurqouvzafbft,uBundcudazscoxumyuducrodgrqyucro 
uuuuuu dccbftuvyuazzvkuBuazco,uz ofoxuvyuxzza,udfxu oo oxuzsrkuDugzft
uuuuuumgd.jucqdxznundcuradbgbftuxznfurqou.zaabxzakuBrundcurqaznfumyud
uuuuuuvdfunqzundgjoxuczirgyuxznfurqou dccdtounbrqudu.dfxgouqogxubfuqbc
uuuuuuqdfxkuQoundcubfucqbarudfxurazscoac,unbrqufzu.zpoabfturzuqbcuioork
uuuuuuBu.zsgxuvoaogyucoourqouzsrgbfo,umsruqbcuqobtqrurzgxuvourqdrubr
uuuuuundcuMdaayvzaokuQoundgjoxupoayucgzngyudfxu.ba.svc o.rgy,udfxurqoao
uuuuuundcuczvorqbftubfxoc.abmdmgyutsbgryudfxuisarbpoubfuqbcunqzgo
uuuuuud  odadf.ok

uuuuuuBuqdpourzgxuyzsurqdrurqou.zaabxzaubcumazjofumyurqoumdg.zfyunqb.q
uuuuuuasfcuazsfxurqouqdgg,umsrurqdrubrubcuaocsvoxus zfurqouidarqoa
uuuuuucbxokuBundbroxusfrbguqouqdxu dccoxuzsruziucbtqrudfxurqofuB
uuuuuuizggznoxuqbvkuNqofuBu.dvouazsfxurqoumdg.zfyuqouqdxuaod.qoxurqo
uuuuuuofxuziurqouidarqoau.zaabxza,udfxuBu.zsgxucoouiazvurqoutgbvvoauzi
uuuuuugbtqrurqazstqudfuz ofuxzzaurqdruqouqdxuofroaoxuzfouziurqouazzvck
uuuuuuFzn,udggurqocouazzvcudaousfisafbcqoxudfxusfz..s boxuczurqdruqbc
uuuuuuoh oxbrbzfumo.dvouvzaouvycroabzscurqdfuopoakuRqougbtqrucqzfo
uuuuuucrodxbgyudcubiuqounoaoucrdfxbftuvzrbzfgocckuBu.ao ruxznfurqo
uuuuuu dccdtoudcufzbcogoccgyudcuBu.zsgxudfxu oo oxuazsfxurqou.zafoauzi
uuuuuurqouxzzak

uuuuuuMdaayvzaoundcu.azs.qbftudrurqounbfxznunbrqurqou.dfxgouqogx
uuuuuudtdbfcrurqoutgdcckuQbcu azibgoundcuqdgiursafoxurzndaxcuvo,udfx
uuuuuuqbcuid.oucoovoxurzumouabtbxunbrquoh o.rdrbzfudcuqoucrdaoxuzsr
uuuuuubfrzurqoumgd.jfoccuziurqouvzzakuIzauczvouvbfsrocuqoucrzzx
uuuuuundr.qbftubfrofrgykuRqofuqoutdpouduxoo utazdfudfxunbrqudf
uuuuuubv drbofrutocrsaouqou sruzsrurqougbtqrkuBfcrdfrgyuBuvdxouvyundy
uuuuuumd.jurzuvyuazzv,udfxupoayucqzargyu.dvourqoucrodgrqyucro cu dccbft
uuuuuuzf.ouvzaous zfurqobauaorsafuwzsafoykuGzftudiroandaxcunqofuBuqdx
uuuuuuidggofubfrzudugbtqrucgoo uBuqodaxudujoyursafuczvonqoaoubfudugz.j,
uuuuuumsruBu.zsgxufzruroggunqof.ourqouczsfxu.dvokuNqdrubrudgguvodfcuB
uuuuuu.dffzrutsocc,umsrurqoaoubcuczvouco.aorumscbfoccutzbftuzfubfurqbc
uuuuuuqzscouziutgzzvunqb.quczzfoauzaugdroaunoucqdggutorurzurqoumzrrzv
uuuuuuzikuBuxzufzrurazsmgouyzsunbrquvyurqozaboc,uizauyzsudcjoxuvourz
uuuuuuisafbcquyzsuzfgyunbrquid.rckuBuqdpouqdxudugzfturdgjunbrquCba
uuuuuuQofayurqbcuvzafbft,udfxunouqdpouvdxoudu gdfuziu.dv dbtfuizsfxox
uuuuuus zfuvyuzmcoapdrbzfcuziugdcrufbtqrkuBunbggufzruc odjudmzsrubr
uuuuuuwscrufzn,umsrubrucqzsgxuvdjouvyufohruao zarubfroaocrbftuaodxbftk



.qd roau9k

RqouGbtqrus zfurqouVzzau[Co.zfxuAo zaruziuXakuNdrczf]

uuuuuuMdcjoapbggouQdgg,uZ.rku15rqk

uuuuuuVYuXODAuQZGVOC,

uuuuuuBiuBundcu.zv oggoxurzugodpouyzsunbrqzsruvs.qufoncuxsabfturqo
uuuuuuodagyuxdycuziuvyuvbccbzfuyzsuvscrud.jfzngoxtourqdruBudvuvdjbftus 
uuuuuuizaugzcrurbvo,udfxurqdruopofrcudaoufznu.aznxbfturqb.judfxuidcr
uuuuuus zfusckuBfuvyugdcruao zaruBuofxoxus zfuvyurz ufzrounbrq
uuuuuuMdaayvzaoudrurqounbfxzn,udfxufznuBuqdpouesbroudumsxtorudgaodxy
uuuuuunqb.qunbgg,usfgoccuBudvuvs.quvbcrdjof,u.zfcbxoadmgyucsa abcouyzsk
uuuuuuRqbftcuqdpourdjofudursafunqb.quBu.zsgxufzruqdpoudfrb.b droxkuBf
uuuuuuczvoundycurqoyuqdpounbrqbfurqougdcruizary-obtqruqzsacumo.zvouvs.q
uuuuuu.godaoaudfxubfuczvoundycurqoyuqdpoumo.zvouvzaou.zv gb.droxkuMsruB
uuuuuunbggurogguyzsudggudfxuyzsucqdgguwsxtouizauyzsacogik

uuuuuuMoizaoumaodjidcruzfurqouvzafbftuizggznbftuvyudxpofrsaouBunofr
uuuuuuxznfurqou.zaabxzaudfxuohdvbfoxurqouazzvubfunqb.quMdaayvzaouqdx
uuuuuumoofuzfurqoufbtqrumoizaokuRqounocroafunbfxznurqazstqunqb.quqouqdx
uuuuuucrdaoxuczubfrofrgyuqdc,uBufzrb.ox,uzfou o.sgbdabryudmzpoudgg
uuuuuuzrqoaunbfxzncubfurqouqzsco—bru.zvvdfxcurqoufodaocruzsrgzzjuzfurz
uuuuuurqouvzzakuRqoaoubcudfuz ofbftumornoofurnzuraoocunqb.quofdmgocuzfo
uuuuuuiazvurqbcu zbfruziupbonurzugzzjuabtqruxznfus zfubr,unqbgouiazv
uuuuuudggurqouzrqoaunbfxzncubrubcuzfgyuduxbcrdfrutgbv counqb.qu.dfumo
uuuuuuzmrdbfoxkuBruizggznc,urqoaoizao,urqdruMdaayvzao,ucbf.ouzfgyurqbc
uuuuuunbfxznunzsgxucoapourqou sa zco,uvscruqdpoumoofugzzjbftuzsruiza
uuuuuuczvorqbftuzauczvomzxyus zfurqouvzzakuRqoufbtqrundcupoayuxdaj,ucz
uuuuuurqdruBu.dfuqdaxgyubvdtbfouqznuqou.zsgxuqdpouqz oxurzucooudfyzfok
uuuuuuBruqdxucras.juvourqdrubrundcu zccbmgourqdruczvougzpoubfrabtsoundc
uuuuuuzfuizzrkuRqdrunzsgxuqdpoud..zsfroxuizauqbcucrodgrqyuvzpovofrcudfx
uuuuuudgczuizaurqousfodcbfoccuziuqbcunbiokuRqouvdfubcud
uuuuuucrabjbft-gzzjbftuioggzn,upoayunogguoesb  oxurzucrodgurqouqodaruzi
uuuuuudu.zsfrayutbag,uczurqdrurqbcurqozayucoovoxurzuqdpouczvorqbfturz
uuuuuucs  zarubrkuRqdruz ofbftuziurqouxzzaunqb.quBuqdxuqodaxudiroauB
uuuuuuqdxuaorsafoxurzuvyuazzvuvbtqruvodfurqdruqouqdxutzfouzsrurzujoo 
uuuuuuczvou.gdfxocrbfoud  zbfrvofrkuCzuBuaodczfoxunbrquvycogiubfurqo
uuuuuuvzafbft,udfxuBurogguyzsurqouxbao.rbzfuziuvyucsc b.bzfc,uqznopoa
uuuuuuvs.qurqouaocsgruvdyuqdpoucqznfurqdrurqoyunoaousfizsfxoxk

uuuuuuMsrunqdropoaurqourasouoh gdfdrbzfuziuMdaayvzao’cuvzpovofrcuvbtqr
uuuuuumo,uBuiogrurqdrurqouaoc zfcbmbgbryuziujoo bfturqovurzuvycogi
uuuuuusfrbguBu.zsgxuoh gdbfurqovundcuvzaourqdfuBu.zsgxumodakuBuqdxudf
uuuuuubfroapbonunbrqurqoumdazforubfuqbcucrsxyudiroaumaodjidcr,udfxuB
uuuuuurzgxuqbvudggurqdruBuqdxucoofkuQoundcugoccucsa abcoxurqdfuBuqdx
uuuuuuoh o.roxk

uuuuuu“BujfonurqdruMdaayvzaoundgjoxudmzsrufbtqrc,udfxuBuqdxuduvbfxurz
uuuuuuc odjurzuqbvudmzsrubr,”ucdbxuqoku“RnzuzaurqaoourbvocuBuqdpouqodax
uuuuuuqbcucro cubfurqou dccdto,u.zvbftudfxutzbft,uwscrudmzsrurqouqzsa
uuuuuuyzsufdvok”

uuuuuu“ oaqd curqofuqou dycudupbcbruopoayufbtqrurzurqdru darb.sgda
uuuuuunbfxzn,”uBucsttocroxk

uuuuuu“ oaqd cuqouxzockuBiucz,unoucqzsgxumoudmgourzucqdxznuqbvudfxucoo
uuuuuunqdrubrubcurqdruqoubcudiroakuBunzfxoaunqdruyzsauiabofxuQzgvoc
uuuuuunzsgxuxzubiuqounoaouqoaok”

uuuuuu“Bumogbopourqdruqounzsgxuxzuohd.rgyunqdruyzsufznucsttocr,”ucdbx
uuuuuuBku“QounzsgxuizggznuMdaayvzaoudfxucoounqdruqouxbxk”

uuuuuu“Rqofunoucqdgguxzubrurztorqoak”

uuuuuu“Msrucsaogyuqounzsgxuqodausck”

uuuuuu“Rqouvdfubcuadrqoauxodi,udfxubfudfyu.dcounouvscrurdjouzsau.qdf.o
uuuuuuziurqdrkuNo’ggucbrus ubfuvyuazzvurzfbtqrudfxundbrusfrbguqo
uuuuuu dccock”uCbauQofayuasmmoxuqbcuqdfxcunbrqu godcsao,udfxubrundc
uuuuuuopbxofrurqdruqouqdbgoxurqoudxpofrsaoudcuduaogboiurzuqbcuczvonqdr
uuuuuuesborugbious zfurqouvzzak

uuuuuuRqoumdazforuqdcumoofubfu.zvvsfb.drbzfunbrqurqouda.qbro.runqz
uuuuuu ao daoxurqou gdfcuizauCbau.qdagoc,udfxunbrqudu.zfrad.rzauiazv
uuuuuuGzfxzf,uczurqdrunouvdyuoh o.rutaodru.qdftocurzumotbfuqoaouczzfk
uuuuuuRqoaouqdpoumoofuxo.zadrzacudfxuisafbcqoacus uiazvu gyvzsrq,udfx
uuuuuubrubcuopbxofrurqdruzsauiabofxuqdcugdatoubxodcudfxuvodfcurzuc dao
uuuuuufzu dbfcuzauoh ofcourzuaocrzaourqoutadfxosauziuqbcuidvbgykuNqof
uuuuuurqouqzscoubcuaofzpdroxudfxuaoisafbcqox,udggurqdruqounbggufoox
uuuuuunbggumoudunbiourzuvdjoubru.zv gorokuMornoofuzsacogpocurqoaoudao
uuuuuu aorryu.godaucbtfcurqdrurqbcunbggufzrumoundfrbftubiurqougdxyubc
uuuuuunbggbft,uizauBuqdpoucogxzvucoofuduvdfuvzaoubfidrsdroxunbrqud
uuuuuunzvdfurqdfuqoubcunbrquzsaumodsrbisgufobtqmzsa,uVbccuCrd gorzfk
uuuuuuDfxuyorurqou.zsacouziurasougzpouxzocufzruasfuesbroudcucvzzrqgyudc
uuuuuuzfounzsgxusfxoaurqou.ba.svcrdf.ocuoh o.rkuRzxdy,uizauohdv go,ubrc
uuuuuucsaid.oundcumazjofumyudupoayusfoh o.roxuab  go,unqb.quqdcu.dscox
uuuuuuzsauiabofxu.zfcbxoadmgou oa gohbryudfxudffzydf.ok

uuuuuuDiroaurqou.zfpoacdrbzfunqb.quBuqdpoueszroxudmzsruMdaayvzao,uCba
uuuuuuQofayu sruzfuqbcuqdrudfxu ao daoxurzutzuzsrkuDcuduvdrroauzi
uuuuuu.zsacouBuxbxurqoucdvok

uuuuuu“Nqdr,udaou_yzs_u.zvbft,uNdrczf?”uqoudcjox,ugzzjbftudruvoubfud
uuuuuu.sabzscundyk

uuuuuu“Rqdruxo ofxcuzfunqorqoauyzsudaoutzbftuzfurqouvzza,”ucdbxuBk

uuuuuu“Yoc,uBudvk”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uyzsujfznunqdruvyubfcras.rbzfcudaokuBudvuczaayurzubfrasxo,
uuuuuumsruyzsuqodaxuqznuodafocrgyuQzgvocubfcbcroxurqdruBucqzsgxufzr
uuuuuugodpouyzs,udfxuoc o.bdggyurqdruyzsucqzsgxufzrutzudgzfous zfurqo
uuuuuuvzzak”

uuuuuuCbauQofayu sruqbcuqdfxus zfuvyucqzsgxoaunbrqudu godcdfrucvbgok

uuuuuu“Vyuxodauioggzn,”ucdbxuqo,u“Qzgvoc,unbrqudgguqbcunbcxzv,uxbxufzr
uuuuuuizaocoouczvourqbftcunqb.quqdpouqd  ofoxucbf.ouBuqdpoumoofuzfurqo
uuuuuuvzzakuYzsusfxoacrdfxuvo?uBudvucsaourqdruyzsudaourqougdcruvdfubf
uuuuuurqounzagxunqzunzsgxunbcqurzumouduc zbg-c zarkuBuvscrutzuzsr
uuuuuudgzfok”

uuuuuuBru sruvoubfuduvzcrudnjndaxu zcbrbzfkuBundcudrudugzccunqdrurzucdy
uuuuuuzaunqdrurzuxz,udfxumoizaouBuqdxuvdxous uvyuvbfxuqou b.joxus uqbc
uuuuuu.dfoudfxundcutzfok

uuuuuuMsrunqofuBu.dvourzurqbfjurqouvdrroauzpoauvyu.zfc.bof.ouao azd.qox
uuuuuuvoumbrroagyuizauqdpbftuzfudfyu aorohrudggznoxuqbvurzutzuzsruziuvy
uuuuuucbtqrkuBubvdtbfoxunqdruvyuioogbftcunzsgxumoubiuBuqdxurzuaorsafurz
uuuuuuyzsudfxurzu.zfioccurqdruczvouvbcizarsfouqdxuz..saaoxurqazstquvy
uuuuuuxbcaotdaxuizauyzsaubfcras.rbzfckuBudccsaouyzsuvyu.qoojcuigscqox
uuuuuudrurqoupoayurqzstqrkuBruvbtqrufzruopofufznumourzzugdrourz
uuuuuuzpoardjouqbv,uczuBucoruziiudruzf.oubfurqouxbao.rbzfuziuVoaab br
uuuuuuQzscok

uuuuuuBuqsaaboxudgzfturqouazdxudrurqourz uziuvyuc ooxunbrqzsrucoobft
uuuuuudfyrqbftuziuCbauQofay,usfrbguBu.dvourzurqou zbfrunqoaourqouvzza
uuuuuu drqumadf.qocuziikuRqoao,uiodabfturqdru oaqd cuBuqdxu.zvoubfurqo
uuuuuunazftuxbao.rbzfudiroaudgg,uBuvzsfroxuduqbgguiazvunqb.quBu.zsgx
uuuuuu.zvvdfxudupbon—rqoucdvouqbggunqb.qubcu.srubfrzurqouxdajuesdaayk
uuuuuuRqof.ouBucdnuqbvudruzf.okuQoundcuzfurqouvzzau drqudmzsruduesdaroa
uuuuuuziuduvbgouzii,udfxudugdxyundcumyuqbcucbxounqzu.zsgxuzfgyumouVbcc
uuuuuuCrd gorzfkuBrundcu.godaurqdrurqoaoundcudgaodxyudfusfxoacrdfxbft
uuuuuumornoofurqovudfxurqdrurqoyuqdxuvorumyud  zbfrvofrkuRqoyunoao
uuuuuundgjbftucgzngyudgzftubfuxoo u.zfpoacdrbzf,udfxuBucdnuqoauvdjbft
uuuuuuesb.jugbrrgouvzpovofrcuziuqoauqdfxcudcubiucqounoaoupoayuodafocr
uuuuuubfunqdrucqoundcucdybft,unqbgouqougbcrofoxubfrofrgy,udfxuzf.ouza
uuuuuurnb.oucqzzjuqbcuqodxubfucrazftuxbccofrkuBucrzzxudvzfturqouaz.jc
uuuuuundr.qbfturqov,upoayuvs.qu sllgoxudcurzunqdruBucqzsgxuxzufohrkuRz
uuuuuuizggznurqovudfxumaodjubfrzurqobaubfrbvdrou.zfpoacdrbzfucoovoxurz
uuuuuumoudfuzsradto,udfxuyoruvyu.godauxsryundcufopoauizaudfubfcrdfrurz
uuuuuugoruqbvuzsruziuvyucbtqrkuRzud.rurqouc yus zfuduiabofxundcud
uuuuuuqdroisgurdcjkuCrbgg,uBu.zsgxucooufzumorroau.zsacourqdfurzuzmcoapo
uuuuuuqbvuiazvurqouqbgg,udfxurzu.godauvyu.zfc.bof.oumyu.zfioccbfturz
uuuuuuqbvudiroandaxcunqdruBuqdxuxzfokuBrubcurasourqdrubiudfyucsxxof
uuuuuuxdftoauqdxurqaodrofoxuqbvuBundcurzzuidaudndyurzumouziusco,udfx
uuuuuuyoruBudvucsaourqdruyzsunbggudtaoounbrquvourqdrurqou zcbrbzfundc
uuuuuupoayuxbiib.sgr,udfxurqdrurqoaoundcufzrqbftuvzaounqb.quBu.zsgxuxzk

uuuuuuZsauiabofx,uCbauQofay,udfxurqougdxyuqdxuqdgroxuzfurqou drqudfx
uuuuuunoaoucrdfxbftuxoo gyudmczamoxubfurqobau.zfpoacdrbzf,unqofuBundc
uuuuuucsxxofgyudndaourqdruBundcufzrurqouzfgyunbrfoccuziurqoba
uuuuuubfroapbonkuDunbc uziutaoofuigzdrbftubfurqoudbau.dstqruvyuoyo,udfx
uuuuuudfzrqoautgdf.oucqznoxuvourqdrubrundcu.daaboxuzfuducrb.jumyuduvdf
uuuuuunqzundcuvzpbftudvzfturqoumazjofutazsfxkuBrundcuCrd gorzfunbrquqbc
uuuuuumsrroaigy-forkuQoundcupoayuvs.qu.gzcoaurzurqou dbaurqdfuBundc,
uuuuuudfxuqoud  odaoxurzumouvzpbftubfurqobauxbao.rbzfkuDrurqbcubfcrdfr
uuuuuuCbauQofayucsxxofgyuxaonuVbccuCrd gorzfurzuqbcucbxokuQbcudavundc
uuuuuuazsfxuqoa,umsrubrucoovoxurzuvourqdrucqoundcucradbfbftudndyuiazv
uuuuuuqbvunbrquqoauid.oudpoaroxkuQoucrzz oxuqbcuqodxurzuqoac,udfxucqo
uuuuuuadbcoxuzfouqdfxudcubiubfu azrocrkuFohruvzvofruBucdnurqovuc abft
uuuuuud darudfxursafuqsaaboxgyuazsfxkuCrd gorzfundcurqou.dscouziurqo
uuuuuubfroaas rbzfkuQoundcuasffbftunbgxgyurzndaxcurqov,uqbcudmcsaxufor
uuuuuuxdftgbftumoqbfxuqbvkuQoutocrb.sgdroxudfxudgvzcruxdf.oxunbrq
uuuuuuoh.brovofrubfuiazfruziurqougzpoackuNqdrurqouc.ofouvodfruBu.zsgx
uuuuuufzrubvdtbfo,umsrubrucoovoxurzuvourqdruCrd gorzfundcudmscbftuCba
uuuuuuQofay,unqzuziioaoxuoh gdfdrbzfc,unqb.qumo.dvouvzaoudftayudcurqo
uuuuuuzrqoauaoiscoxurzud..o rurqovkuRqougdxyucrzzxumyubfuqdstqry
uuuuuucbgof.okuIbfdggyuCrd gorzfursafoxus zfuqbcuqoogudfxumo.jzfoxubfud
uuuuuu oaov rzayundyurzuqbcucbcroa,unqz,udiroaudfubaaoczgsroutgdf.oudr
uuuuuuCbauQofay,undgjoxuziiumyurqoucbxouziuqoaumazrqoakuRqo
uuuuuufdrsadgbcr’cudftayutocrsaocucqznoxurqdrurqougdxyundcubf.gsxoxubf
uuuuuuqbcuxbc godcsaokuRqoumdazforucrzzxuizauduvbfsrougzzjbftudiroa
uuuuuurqov,udfxurqofuqoundgjoxucgzngyumd.jurqoundyurqdruqouqdxu.zvo,
uuuuuuqbcuqodxuqdftbft,urqoupoayu b.rsaouziuxowo.rbzfk

uuuuuuNqdrudggurqbcuvodfruBu.zsgxufzrubvdtbfo,umsruBundcuxoo gyudcqdvox
uuuuuurzuqdpounbrfoccoxuczubfrbvdrouduc.ofounbrqzsruvyuiabofx’c
uuuuuujfzngoxtokuBuadfuxznfurqouqbggurqoaoizaoudfxuvorurqoumdazforudr
uuuuuurqoumzrrzvkuQbcuid.oundcuigscqoxunbrqudftoaudfxuqbcumazncunoao
uuuuuunabfjgox,ugbjouzfounqzubcudruqbcunbr’cuofxcunqdrurzuxzk

uuuuuu“Qdggzd,uNdrczf!uNqoaouqdpouyzsuxaz  oxuiazv?”ucdbxuqoku“Yzs
uuuuuuxzf’ruvodfurzucdyurqdruyzsu.dvoudiroauvoubfuc brouziudgg?”

uuuuuuBuoh gdbfoxuopoayrqbfturzuqbv:uqznuBuqdxuizsfxubrubv zccbmgourz
uuuuuuaovdbfumoqbfx,uqznuBuqdxuizggznoxuqbv,udfxuqznuBuqdxunbrfoccox
uuuuuudggurqdruqdxuz..saaoxkuIzaudfubfcrdfruqbcuoyocumgdloxudruvo,umsr
uuuuuuvyuiadfjfoccuxbcdavoxuqbcudftoa,udfxuqoumazjoudrugdcrubfrzud
uuuuuuadrqoauasoisgugdstqk

uuuuuu“Yzsunzsgxuqdpourqzstqrurqouvbxxgouziurqdru adbabouduidbagyucdio
uuuuuu gd.ouizauduvdfurzumou abpdro,”ucdbxuqo,u“msr,umyurqsfxoa,urqo
uuuuuunqzgou.zsfraycbxoucoovcurzuqdpoumoofuzsrurzucoouvouxzuvy
uuuuuunzzbft—dfxuduvbtqryu zzaunzzbftudrurqdr!uNqoaouqdxuyzsuoftdtoxud
uuuuuucodr?”

uuuuuu“Bundcuzfurqdruqbggk”

uuuuuu“Esbroubfurqoumd.juazn,uoq?uMsruqoaumazrqoaundcunoggus urzurqo
uuuuuuiazfrkuXbxuyzsucoouqbvu.zvouzsruzfusc?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uBuxbxk”

uuuuuu“Xbxuqouopoaucrabjouyzsudcumobftu.adly—rqbcumazrqoauziuqoac?”

uuuuuu“Bu.df’rucdyurqdruqouopoauxbxk”

uuuuuu“BuxdaoucdyufzrkuBudgndycurqzstqruqbvucdfouofzstqusfrbgurzxdy,
uuuuuumsruyzsu.dfurdjoubruiazvuvourqdruobrqoauqouzauBuzstqrurzumoubfud
uuuuuucradbrwd.jorkuNqdr’curqouvdrroaunbrquvo,udfyqzn?uYzs’pougbpox
uuuuuufodauvouizauczvounoojc,uNdrczfkuRogguvoucradbtqr,ufzn!uBcurqoao
uuuuuudfyrqbfturqdrunzsgxu aopofruvouiazvuvdjbftudutzzxuqscmdfxurzud
uuuuuunzvdfurqdruBugzpox?”

uuuuuu“Bucqzsgxucdyufzrk”

uuuuuu“Qou.df’ruzmwo.rurzuvyunzagxgyu zcbrbzf,uczubruvscrumouvycogi
uuuuuurqdruqouqdcurqbcuxznfuzfkuNqdruqdcuqoudtdbfcruvo?uBufopoauqsar
uuuuuuvdfuzaunzvdfubfuvyugbiourqdruBujfznuzikuDfxuyoruqounzsgxufzrucz
uuuuuuvs.qudcugoruvourzs.qurqourb cuziuqoauibftoack”

uuuuuu“Xbxuqoucdyucz?”

uuuuuu“Rqdr,udfxuduxodguvzaokuBurogguyzs,uNdrczf,uB’pouzfgyujfznfuqoa
uuuuuurqocouionunoojc,umsruiazvurqouibacruBuwscruiogrurqdrucqoundcuvdxo
uuuuuuizauvo,udfxucqo,urzz—cqoundcuqd  yunqofucqoundcunbrquvo,udfxurqdr
uuuuuuB’ggucnodakuRqoao’cudugbtqrubfudunzvdf’cuoyocurqdruc odjcugzsxoa
uuuuuurqdfunzaxckuMsruqouqdcufopoaugoruscutorurztorqoaudfxubrundcuzfgy
uuuuuurzxdyuizaurqouibacrurbvourqdruBucdnudu.qdf.ouziuqdpbftuduion
uuuuuunzaxcunbrquqoaudgzfokuCqoundcutgdxurzuvooruvo,umsrunqofucqouxbx
uuuuuubrundcufzrugzpourqdrucqounzsgxurdgjudmzsr,udfxucqounzsgxf’ruqdpo
uuuuuugoruvourdgjudmzsrubruobrqoaubiucqou.zsgxuqdpoucrz  oxubrkuCqo
uuuuuujo ru.zvbftumd.jurzubrurqdrurqbcundcudu gd.ouziuxdftoa,udfxurqdr
uuuuuucqounzsgxufopoaumouqd  yusfrbguBuqdxugoirubrkuBurzgxuqoaurqdr
uuuuuucbf.ouBuqdxucoofuqoauBundcubfufzuqsaayurzugodpoubr,udfxurqdrubi
uuuuuucqouaodggyundfroxuvourzutz,urqouzfgyundyurzunzajubrundcuizauqoa
uuuuuurzudaadftourzutzunbrquvokuNbrqurqdruBuziioaoxubfudcuvdfyunzaxcurz
uuuuuuvdaayuqoa,umsrumoizaoucqou.zsgxudfcnoa,uxznfu.dvourqbcumazrqoauzi
uuuuuuqoac,uasffbftudruscunbrquduid.ouzfuqbvugbjouduvdxvdfkuQoundcuwscr
uuuuuunqbrounbrquadto,udfxurqzcougbtqruoyocuziuqbcunoaoumgdlbftunbrq
uuuuuuisaykuNqdrundcuBuxzbftunbrqurqougdxy?uQznuxdaoxuBuziioauqoa
uuuuuudrrofrbzfcunqb.qunoaouxbcrdcroisgurzuqoa?uXbxuBurqbfjurqdr
uuuuuumo.dscouBundcudumdazforuBu.zsgxuxzunqdruBugbjox?uBiuqouqdxufzr
uuuuuumoofuqoaumazrqoauBucqzsgxuqdpoujfznfumorroauqznurzudfcnoauqbvkuDc
uuuuuubrundcuBurzgxuqbvurqdruvyuioogbftcurzndaxcuqbcucbcroaunoaoucs.q
uuuuuudcuBundcufzrudcqdvoxuzi,udfxurqdruBuqz oxurqdrucqouvbtqruqzfzsa
uuuuuuvoumyumo.zvbftuvyunbiokuRqdrucoovoxurzuvdjourqouvdrroaufzumorroa,
uuuuuuczurqofuBugzcruvyurov oaurzz,udfxuBudfcnoaoxuqbvuadrqoauvzao
uuuuuuqzrgyurqdfuBucqzsgxu oaqd c,u.zfcbxoabfturqdrucqoundcucrdfxbft
uuuuuumykuCzubruofxoxumyuqbcutzbftuziiunbrquqoa,udcuyzsucdn,udfxuqoao
uuuuuudvuBudcumdxgyu sllgoxuduvdfudcudfyubfurqbcu.zsfrykuWscrurogguvo
uuuuuunqdrubrudgguvodfc,uNdrczf,udfxuB’gguznouyzsuvzaourqdfuopoauBu.df
uuuuuuqz ourzu dyk”

uuuuuuBuraboxuzfouzaurnzuoh gdfdrbzfc,umsr,ubfxoox,uBundcu.zv gorogy
uuuuuu sllgoxuvycogikuZsauiabofx’curbrgo,uqbcuizarsfo,uqbcudto,uqbc
uuuuuu.qdad.roa,udfxuqbcud  odadf.oudaoudggubfuqbcuidpzsa,udfxuBujfzn
uuuuuufzrqbftudtdbfcruqbvusfgoccubrumourqbcuxdajuidrounqb.quasfcubfuqbc
uuuuuuidvbgykuRqdruqbcudxpdf.ocucqzsgxumouaowo.roxuczumascesogyunbrqzsr
uuuuuudfyuaoioaof.ourzurqougdxy’cuznfunbcqocudfxurqdrurqougdxyucqzsgx
uuuuuud..o rurqoucbrsdrbzfunbrqzsru azrocrubcupoayudvdlbftkuQznopoa,
uuuuuuzsau.zfwo.rsaocunoaoucorudruaocrumyudupbcbruiazvuCrd gorzf
uuuuuuqbvcogiurqdrupoayudiroafzzfkuQouqdxu.zvourzuziioaud zgztbocuiza
uuuuuuqbcuasxofoccuziurqouvzafbft,udfxudiroaudugzftu abpdroubfroapbon
uuuuuunbrquCbauQofayubfuqbcucrsxyurqous cqzruziurqobau.zfpoacdrbzfundc
uuuuuurqdrurqoumaod.qubcuesbrouqodgox,udfxurqdrunoudaourzuxbfoudr
uuuuuuVoaab bruQzscoufohruIabxdyudcuducbtfuziubrk

uuuuuu“Buxzf’rucdyufznurqdruqoubcf’rudu.adlyuvdf,”ucdbxuCbauQofay;u“B
uuuuuu.df’ruizatorurqougzzjubfuqbcuoyocunqofuqouadfudruvourqbcuvzafbft,
uuuuuumsruBuvscrudggznurqdrufzuvdfu.zsgxuvdjouduvzaouqdfxczvoud zgzty
uuuuuurqdfuqouqdcuxzfok”

uuuuuu“Xbxuqoutbpoudfyuoh gdfdrbzfuziuqbcu.zfxs.r?”

uuuuuu“Qbcucbcroaubcuopoayrqbftubfuqbcugbio,uqoucdyckuRqdrubcufdrsadg
uuuuuuofzstq,udfxuBudvutgdxurqdruqoucqzsgxusfxoacrdfxuqoaupdgsokuRqoy
uuuuuuqdpoudgndycumoofurztorqoa,udfxud..zaxbfturzuqbcud..zsfruqouqdc
uuuuuumoofudupoayugzfogyuvdfunbrquzfgyuqoaudcudu.zv dfbzf,uczurqdrurqo
uuuuuurqzstqruziugzcbftuqoaundcuaodggyuroaabmgourzuqbvkuQouqdxufzr
uuuuuusfxoacrzzx,uqoucdbx,urqdruBundcumo.zvbftudrrd.qoxurzuqoa,umsr
uuuuuunqofuqoucdnunbrquqbcuznfuoyocurqdrubrundcuaodggyucz,udfxurqdrucqo
uuuuuuvbtqrumourdjofudndyuiazvuqbv,ubrutdpouqbvucs.quducqz.jurqdruizaud
uuuuuurbvouqoundcufzruaoc zfcbmgouizaunqdruqoucdbxuzauxbxkuQoundcupoay
uuuuuuczaayuizaudggurqdruqdxu dccox,udfxuqouao.ztfbloxuqznuizzgbcqudfx
uuuuuuqznucogibcqubrundcurqdruqoucqzsgxubvdtbfourqdruqou.zsgxuqzgxud
uuuuuumodsrbisgunzvdfugbjouqbcucbcroaurzuqbvcogiuizauqoaunqzgougbiokuBi
uuuuuucqouqdxurzugodpouqbvuqouqdxuadrqoaubrundcurzudufobtqmzsaugbjo
uuuuuuvycogiurqdfurzudfyzfouogcokuMsrubfudfyu.dcoubrundcudumgznurzuqbv
uuuuuudfxubrunzsgxurdjouqbvuczvourbvoumoizaouqou.zsgxu ao daouqbvcogi
uuuuuurzuvoorubrkuQounzsgxunbrqxadnudgguz  zcbrbzfus zfuqbcu darubiuB
uuuuuunzsgxu azvbcouizaurqaoouvzfrqcurzugorurqouvdrroauaocrudfxurzumo
uuuuuu.zfrofrunbrqu.sgrbpdrbfturqougdxy’cuiabofxcqb uxsabfturqdrurbvo
uuuuuunbrqzsru.gdbvbftuqoaugzpokuRqbcuBu azvbcox,udfxuczurqouvdrroa
uuuuuuaocrck”

uuuuuuCzurqoaoubcuzfouziuzsaucvdgguvycroabocu.godaoxus kuBrubc
uuuuuuczvorqbfturzuqdpourzs.qoxumzrrzvudfynqoaoubfurqbcumztubfunqb.quno
uuuuuudaouigzsfxoabftkuNoujfznufznunqyuCrd gorzfugzzjoxunbrquxbcidpzsa
uuuuuus zfuqbcucbcroa’cucsbrza—opofunqofurqdrucsbrzaundcuczuogbtbmgoud
uuuuuuzfoudcuCbauQofaykuDfxufznuBu dccuzfurzudfzrqoaurqaodxunqb.quB
uuuuuuqdpouohrab.droxuzsruziurqourdftgoxucjobf,urqouvycroayuziurqouczmc
uuuuuubfurqoufbtqr,uziurqouroda-crdbfoxuid.ouziuVackuMdaayvzao,uziurqo
uuuuuuco.aoruwzsafoyuziurqoumsrgoaurzurqounocroafugdrrb.ounbfxznk
uuuuuu.zftadrsgdrouvo,uvyuxodauQzgvoc,udfxurogguvourqdruBuqdpoufzr
uuuuuuxbcd  zbfroxuyzsudcudfudtofr—rqdruyzsuxzufzruaotaorurqo
uuuuuu.zfibxof.ounqb.quyzsucqznoxubfuvounqofuyzsucofruvouxznfkuDgg
uuuuuurqocourqbftcuqdpoumyuzfoufbtqr’cunzajumoofurqzazstqgyu.godaoxk

uuuuuuBuqdpoucdbxu“myuzfoufbtqr’cunzaj,”umsr,ubfurasrq,ubrundcumyurnz
uuuuuufbtqrc’unzaj,uizauzfurqouibacrunouxaonuofrbaogyumgdfjkuBucdrus 
uuuuuunbrquCbauQofayubfuqbcuazzvcusfrbgufodagyurqaoouz’.gz.jubfurqo
uuuuuuvzafbft,umsrufzuczsfxuziudfyuczaruxbxunouqodauoh.o rurqou.qbvbft
uuuuuu.gz.jus zfurqoucrdbackuBrundcuduvzcruvogdf.qzgyupbtbgudfxuofxox
uuuuuumyuod.quziuscuidggbftudcgoo ubfuzsau.qdbackuIzarsfdrogyunounoao
uuuuuufzruxbc.zsadtox,udfxunouxoroavbfoxurzurayudtdbfkuRqoufohrufbtqr
uuuuuunougznoaoxurqougdv udfxucdrucvzjbftu.btdaorrocunbrqzsruvdjbfturqo
uuuuuugodcruczsfxkuBrundcubf.aoxbmgouqznucgzngyurqouqzsacu.adngoxumy,
uuuuuudfxuyorunounoaouqog oxurqazstqubrumyurqoucdvouczaruziu drbofr
uuuuuubfroaocrunqb.qurqouqsfroauvscruioogudcuqoundr.qocurqourad ubfrz
uuuuuunqb.quqouqz ocurqoutdvouvdyundfxoakuZfoucras.j,udfxurnz,udfxuno
uuuuuuqdxudgvzcruizaurqouco.zfxurbvoutbpofubrus ubfuxoc dbaunqofubfudf
uuuuuubfcrdfrunoumzrqucdrumzgrus abtqrubfuzsau.qdbacunbrqudgguzsaunoday
uuuuuucofcocujoofgyuzfurqoudgoaruzf.ouvzaokuNouqdxuqodaxurqou.aodjuziud
uuuuuucro ubfurqou dccdtok

uuuuuuPoayucrodgrqbgyunouqodaxubru dccudgzftusfrbgubruxboxudndyubfurqo
uuuuuuxbcrdf.okuRqofurqoumdazforutofrgyuz ofoxuqbcuxzzaudfxunoucoruzsr
uuuuuubfu sacsbrkuDgaodxyuzsauvdfuqdxutzfouazsfxurqoutdggoayudfxurqo
uuuuuu.zaabxzaundcudggubfuxdajfocckuCzirgyunoucrzgoudgzftusfrbgunouqdx
uuuuuu.zvoubfrzurqouzrqoaunbftkuNounoaouwscrubfurbvourzu.dr.qudutgbv co
uuuuuuziurqourdgg,umgd.j-modaxoxuibtsao,uqbcucqzsgxoacuazsfxoxudcuqo
uuuuuurb rzoxuxznfurqou dccdtokuRqofuqou dccoxurqazstqurqoucdvouxzzaudc
uuuuuumoizao,udfxurqougbtqruziurqou.dfxgouiadvoxubrubfurqouxdajfoccudfx
uuuuuucqzruzfoucbftgouyoggznumodvud.azccurqoutgzzvuziurqou.zaabxzakuNo
uuuuuucqsiigoxu.dsrbzscgyurzndaxcubr,uraybftuopoayu gdfjumoizaouno
uuuuuuxdaoxurzu sruzsaunqzgounobtqrus zfubrkuNouqdxurdjofurqo
uuuuuu ao.dsrbzfuziugodpbftuzsaumzzrcumoqbfxusc,umsr,uopofucz,urqouzgx
uuuuuumzdaxcucfd  oxudfxu.aodjoxumofodrquzsauraodxkuCzvorbvocubrucoovox
uuuuuubv zccbmgourqdruqoucqzsgxuidbgurzuqodauzsaud  azd.qkuQznopoa,urqo
uuuuuuvdfubcuizarsfdrogyuadrqoauxodi,udfxuqoundcuofrbaogyu aoz..s box
uuuuuubfurqdrunqb.quqoundcuxzbftkuNqofudrugdcrunouaod.qoxurqouxzzaudfx
uuuuuu oo oxurqazstqunouizsfxuqbvu.azs.qbftudrurqounbfxzn,u.dfxgoubf
uuuuuuqdfx,uqbcunqbro,ubfrofruid.ou aoccoxudtdbfcrurqou dfo,uohd.rgyudc
uuuuuuBuqdxucoofuqbvurnzufbtqrcumoizaok

uuuuuuNouqdxudaadftoxufzu gdfuziu.dv dbtf,umsrurqoumdazforubcuduvdfurz
uuuuuunqzvurqouvzcruxbao.rundyubcudgndycurqouvzcrufdrsadgkuQoundgjox
uuuuuubfrzurqouazzv,udfxudcuqouxbxuczuMdaayvzaouc adftus uiazvurqo
uuuuuunbfxznunbrquducqda uqbccuziuqbcumaodrqudfxucrzzx,ugbpbxudfx
uuuuuuraovmgbft,umoizaousckuQbcuxdajuoyoc,utgdabftuzsruziurqounqbro
uuuuuuvdcjuziuqbcuid.o,unoaouisgguziuqzaazaudfxudcrzfbcqvofrudcuqo
uuuuuutdloxuiazvuCbauQofayurzuvok

uuuuuu“Nqdrudaouyzsuxzbftuqoao,uMdaayvzao?”

uuuuuu“Fzrqbft,ucbak”uQbcudtbrdrbzfundcuczutaodrurqdruqou.zsgxuqdaxgy
uuuuuuc odj,udfxurqoucqdxzncuc adftus udfxuxznfuiazvurqoucqdjbftuziuqbc
uuuuuu.dfxgoku“Brundcurqounbfxzn,ucbakuButzuazsfxudrufbtqrurzucoourqdr
uuuuuurqoyudaouidcrofoxk”

uuuuuu“Zfurqouco.zfxuigzza?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucba,udggurqounbfxznck”

uuuuuu“Gzzjuqoao,uMdaayvzao,”ucdbxuCbauQofayucroafgy,u“nouqdpouvdxous 
uuuuuuzsauvbfxcurzuqdpourqourasrquzsruziuyzs,uczubrunbggucdpouyzs
uuuuuurazsmgourzuroggubruczzfoauadrqoaurqdfugdroaku.zvo,ufzn!uFzugboc!
uuuuuuNqdrunoaouyzsuxzbftudrurqdrunbfxzn?”

uuuuuuRqouioggznugzzjoxudruscubfuduqog goccundy,udfxuqounasftuqbcuqdfxc
uuuuuurztorqoaugbjouzfounqzubcubfurqougdcruohraovbryuziuxzsmrudfx
uuuuuuvbcoayk

uuuuuu“Bundcuxzbftufzuqdav,ucbakuBundcuqzgxbftudu.dfxgourzurqounbfxznk”

uuuuuu“Dfxunqyunoaouyzsuqzgxbftudu.dfxgourzurqounbfxzn?”

uuuuuu“Xzf’rudcjuvo,uCbauQofay—xzf’rudcjuvo!uButbpouyzsuvyunzax,ucba,
uuuuuurqdrubrubcufzruvyuco.aor,udfxurqdruBu.dffzruroggubrkuBiubr
uuuuuu.zf.oafoxufzuzfoumsruvycogiuBunzsgxufzrurayurzujoo ubruiazvuyzsk”

uuuuuuDucsxxofubxoduz..saaoxurzuvo,udfxuBurzzjurqou.dfxgouiazvurqo
uuuuuuraovmgbftuqdfxuziurqoumsrgoak

uuuuuu“Qouvscruqdpoumoofuqzgxbftubrudcuducbtfdg,”ucdbxuBku“Goruscucoo
uuuuuubiurqoaoubcudfyudfcnoak”uBuqogxubrudcuqouqdxuxzfo,udfxucrdaoxuzsr
uuuuuubfrzurqouxdajfoccuziurqoufbtqrkuPdtsogyuBu.zsgxuxbc.oafurqoumgd.j
uuuuuumdfjuziurqouraoocudfxurqougbtqroauoh dfcouziurqouvzza,uizaurqo
uuuuuuvzzfundcumoqbfxurqou.gzsxckuDfxurqofuButdpoudu.ayuziuohsgrdrbzf,
uuuuuuizaudurbfyu bf zbfruziuyoggznugbtqruqdxucsxxofgyuradfcibhoxurqo
uuuuuuxdajupobg,udfxutgznoxucrodxbgyubfurqou.ofraouziurqoumgd.jucesdao
uuuuuuiadvoxumyurqounbfxznk

uuuuuu“Rqoaoubrubc!”uBu.aboxk

uuuuuu“Fz,ufz,ucba,ubrubcufzrqbft—fzrqbftudrudgg!”urqoumsrgoaumazjoubf;
uuuuuu“Budccsaouyzs,ucba—”

uuuuuu“Vzpouyzsaugbtqrud.azccurqounbfxzn,uNdrczf!”u.aboxurqoumdazfork
uuuuuu“Coo,urqouzrqoauvzpocudgcz!uFzn,uyzsuadc.dg,uxzuyzsuxofyurqdrubr
uuuuuubcuducbtfdg?u.zvo,uc odjus !uNqzubcuyzsau.zfioxoadrouzsruyzfxoa,
uuuuuudfxunqdrubcurqbcu.zfc bad.yurqdrubcutzbftuzf?”

uuuuuuRqouvdf’cuid.oumo.dvouz ofgyuxoibdfrku“Brubcuvyumscbfocc,udfxufzr
uuuuuuyzsackuBunbggufzruroggk”

uuuuuu“Rqofuyzsugodpouvyuov gzyvofruabtqrudndyk”

uuuuuu“Poayutzzx,ucbakuBiuBuvscruBuvscrk”

uuuuuu“Dfxuyzsutzubfuxbctad.okuMyurqsfxoa,uyzsuvdyunoggumoudcqdvoxuzi
uuuuuuyzsacogikuYzsauidvbgyuqdcugbpoxunbrquvbfouizauzpoauduqsfxaox
uuuuuuyodacusfxoaurqbcuazzi,udfxuqoaouBuibfxuyzsuxoo ubfuczvouxdaju gzr
uuuuuudtdbfcruvok”

uuuuuu“Fz,ufz,ucba;ufz,ufzrudtdbfcruyzs!”uBrundcudunzvdf’cupzb.o,udfx
uuuuuuVackuMdaayvzao,u dgoaudfxuvzaouqzaaza-cras.jurqdfuqoauqscmdfx,
uuuuuundcucrdfxbftudrurqouxzzakuQoaumsgjyuibtsaoubfuducqdngudfxucjbar
uuuuuuvbtqruqdpoumoofu.zvb.unoaoubrufzruizaurqoubfrofcbryuziuioogbft
uuuuuus zfuqoauid.ok

uuuuuu“Nouqdpourzutz,uOgbldkuRqbcubcurqouofxuziubrkuYzsu.dfu d.juzsa
uuuuuurqbftc,”ucdbxurqoumsrgoak

uuuuuu“Zq,uWzqf,uWzqf,uqdpouBumazstqruyzsurzurqbc?uBrubcuvyuxzbft,uCba
uuuuuuQofay—dgguvbfokuQouqdcuxzfoufzrqbftuoh.o ruizauvyucdjoudfx
uuuuuumo.dscouBudcjoxuqbvk”

uuuuuu“C odjuzsr,urqof!uNqdruxzocubruvodf?”

uuuuuu“Vyusfqd  yumazrqoaubcucrdapbftuzfurqouvzzakuNou.dffzrugoruqbv
uuuuuu oabcqudruzsaupoayutdrockuRqougbtqrubcuducbtfdgurzuqbvurqdruizzx
uuuuuubcuaodxyuizauqbv,udfxuqbcugbtqruzsruyzfxoaubcurzucqznurqouc zrurz
uuuuuunqb.qurzumabftubrk”

uuuuuu“Rqofuyzsaumazrqoaubc—”

uuuuuu“Rqouoc.d oxu.zfpb.r,ucba—Cogxof,urqou.abvbfdgk”

uuuuuu“Rqdr’curqourasrq,ucba,”ucdbxuMdaayvzaoku“Bucdbxurqdrubrundcufzr
uuuuuuvyuco.aorudfxurqdruBu.zsgxufzruroggubrurzuyzskuMsrufznuyzsuqdpo
uuuuuuqodaxubr,udfxuyzsunbggucoourqdrubiurqoaoundcudu gzrubrundcufzr
uuuuuudtdbfcruyzsk”

uuuuuuRqbc,urqof,undcurqouoh gdfdrbzfuziurqoucrodgrqyuoh oxbrbzfcudr
uuuuuufbtqrudfxurqougbtqrudrurqounbfxznkuCbauQofayudfxuBumzrqucrdaoxudr
uuuuuurqounzvdfubfudvdlovofrkuNdcubru zccbmgourqdrurqbcucrzgbxgy
uuuuuuaoc o.rdmgou oaczfundcuziurqoucdvoumgzzxudcuzfouziurqouvzcr
uuuuuufzrzabzscu.abvbfdgcubfurqou.zsfray?

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucba,uvyufdvoundcuCogxof,udfxuqoubcuvyuyzsftoaumazrqoakuNo
uuuuuuqsvzsaoxuqbvurzzuvs.qunqofuqoundcudugdxudfxutdpouqbvuqbcuznfundy
uuuuuubfuopoayrqbftusfrbguqou.dvourzurqbfjurqdrurqounzagxundcuvdxouiza
uuuuuuqbcu godcsao,udfxurqdruqou.zsgxuxzunqdruqougbjoxubfubrkuRqofudc
uuuuuuqoutaonuzgxoauqouvorunb.joxu.zv dfbzfc,udfxurqouxopbguofroaox
uuuuuubfrzuqbvusfrbguqoumazjouvyuvzrqoa’cuqodarudfxuxadttoxuzsaufdvoubf
uuuuuurqouxbarkuIazvu.abvourzu.abvouqoucdfjugznoaudfxugznoausfrbgubrubc
uuuuuuzfgyurqouvoa.yuziuTzxunqb.quqdcucfdr.qoxuqbvuiazvurqouc.diizgx;
uuuuuumsrurzuvo,ucba,uqoundcudgndycurqougbrrgou.sagy-qodxoxumzyurqdruB
uuuuuuqdxufsacoxudfxu gdyoxunbrqudcudfuogxoaucbcroaunzsgxkuRqdrundcunqy
uuuuuuqoumazjou abczf,ucbakuQoujfonurqdruBundcuqoaoudfxurqdrunou.zsgx
uuuuuufzruaoiscourzuqog uqbvkuNqofuqouxadttoxuqbvcogiuqoaouzfoufbtqr,
uuuuuunodayudfxucrdapbft,unbrqurqoundaxoacuqdaxudruqbcuqoogc,unqdr
uuuuuu.zsgxunouxz?uNourzzjuqbvubfudfxuioxuqbvudfxu.daoxuizauqbvkuRqof
uuuuuuyzsuaorsafox,ucba,udfxuvyumazrqoaurqzstqruqounzsgxumoucdioauzf
uuuuuurqouvzzaurqdfudfynqoaouogcousfrbgurqouqsoudfxu.ayundcuzpoa,uczuqo
uuuuuugdyubfuqbxbfturqoaokuMsruopoayuco.zfxufbtqrunouvdxoucsaoubiuqo
uuuuuundcucrbggurqoaoumyu srrbftudugbtqrubfurqounbfxzn,udfxubiurqoao
uuuuuundcudfudfcnoauvyuqscmdfxurzzjuzsruczvoumaodxudfxuvodrurzuqbvk
uuuuuuOpoayuxdyunouqz oxurqdruqoundcutzfo,umsrudcugzftudcuqoundcurqoao
uuuuuunou.zsgxufzruxocoaruqbvkuRqdrubcurqounqzgourasrq,udcuBudvudf
uuuuuuqzfocru.qabcrbdfunzvdfudfxuyzsunbggucoourqdrubiurqoaoubcumgdvoubf
uuuuuurqouvdrroaubruxzocufzrugbounbrquvyuqscmdfxumsrunbrquvo,uizaunqzco
uuuuuucdjouqouqdcuxzfoudggurqdruqouqdck”

uuuuuuRqounzvdf’cunzaxcu.dvounbrqudfubfrofcouodafocrfoccunqb.qu.daabox
uuuuuu.zfpb.rbzfunbrqurqovk

uuuuuu“Bcurqbcuraso,uMdaayvzao?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uCbauQofaykuOpoayunzaxuziubrk”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uBu.dffzrumgdvouyzsuizaucrdfxbftumyuyzsauznfunbiokuIzator
uuuuuunqdruBuqdpoucdbxkuTzurzuyzsauazzv,uyzsurnz,udfxunoucqdggurdgj
uuuuuuisarqoaudmzsrurqbcuvdrroaubfurqouvzafbftk”

uuuuuuNqofurqoyunoaoutzfounougzzjoxuzsruziurqounbfxznudtdbfkuCbauQofay
uuuuuuqdxuigsftubruz of,udfxurqou.zgxufbtqrunbfxumodrubfus zfuzsa
uuuuuuid.ockuIdaudndyubfurqoumgd.juxbcrdf.ourqoaoucrbggutgznoxurqdruzfo
uuuuuurbfyu zbfruziuyoggznugbtqrk

uuuuuu“Bunzfxoauqouxdaoc,”ucdbxuCbauQofayk

uuuuuu“Bruvdyumouczu gd.oxudcurzumouzfgyupbcbmgouiazvuqoaok”

uuuuuu“PoayugbjogykuQznuidauxzuyzsurqbfjubrubc?”

uuuuuu“Zsrumyurqou.goiruRza,uBurqbfjk”

uuuuuu“Fzruvzaourqdfuduvbgouzaurnzuziik”

uuuuuu“Qdaxgyurqdrk”

uuuuuu“Nogg,ubru.dffzrumouidaubiuMdaayvzaouqdxurzu.daayuzsrurqouizzxurz
uuuuuubrkuDfxuqoubcundbrbft,urqbcupbggdbf,umocbxourqdru.dfxgokuMy
uuuuuurqsfxoa,uNdrczf,uBudvutzbftuzsrurzurdjourqdruvdf!”

uuuuuuRqoucdvourqzstqruqdxu.azccoxuvyuznfuvbfxkuBrundcufzrudcubiurqo
uuuuuuMdaayvzaocuqdxurdjofuscubfrzurqobau.zfibxof.okuRqobauco.aoruqdx
uuuuuumoofuiza.oxuiazvurqovkuRqouvdfundcuduxdftoaurzurqou.zvvsfbry,udf
uuuuuusfvbrbtdroxuc.zsfxaoguizaunqzvurqoaoundcufobrqoau bryufzauoh.scok
uuuuuuNounoaouzfgyuxzbftuzsauxsryubfurdjbfturqbcu.qdf.ouziu srrbftuqbv
uuuuuumd.junqoaouqou.zsgxuxzufzuqdavkuNbrquqbcumasrdgudfxupbzgofr
uuuuuufdrsao,uzrqoacunzsgxuqdpourzu dyurqou ab.oubiunouqogxuzsauqdfxck
uuuuuuDfyufbtqr,uizauohdv go,uzsaufobtqmzsacurqouCrd gorzfcuvbtqrumo
uuuuuudrrd.joxumyuqbv,udfxubruvdyuqdpoumoofurqourqzstqruziurqbcunqb.q
uuuuuuvdxouCbauQofayuczujoofus zfurqoudxpofrsaok

uuuuuu“Bunbggu.zvo,”ucdbxuBk

uuuuuu“Rqofutoruyzsauaopzgpoaudfxu sruzfuyzsaumzzrckuRqouczzfoauno
uuuuuucrdarurqoumorroa,udcurqouioggznuvdyu sruzsruqbcugbtqrudfxumo
uuuuuuziik”

uuuuuuBfuibpouvbfsrocunounoaouzsrcbxourqouxzza,ucrdarbftus zfuzsa
uuuuuuoh oxbrbzfkuNouqsaaboxurqazstqurqouxdajucqasmmoay,udvbxurqouxsgg
uuuuuuvzdfbftuziurqoudsrsvfunbfxudfxurqouascrgouziurqouidggbftugodpock
uuuuuuRqoufbtqrudbaundcuqodpyunbrqurqoucvogguziuxdv udfxuxo.dykuFznudfx
uuuuuudtdbfurqouvzzfu oo oxuzsruizaudfubfcrdfr,umsru.gzsxcunoaouxabpbft
uuuuuuzpoaurqouid.ouziurqoucjy,udfxuwscrudcunou.dvouzsruzfurqouvzzaud
uuuuuurqbfuadbfumotdfurzuidggkuRqougbtqrucrbggumsafoxucrodxbgyubf
uuuuuuiazfrk

uuuuuu“Daouyzsudavox?”uBudcjoxk

uuuuuu“Buqdpouduqsfrbft-.az k”

uuuuuu“Nouvscru.gzcoubfuzfuqbvuad bxgy,uizauqoubcucdbxurzumoud
uuuuuuxoc oadrouioggznkuNoucqdggurdjouqbvumyucsa abcoudfxuqdpouqbvudr
uuuuuuzsauvoa.yumoizaouqou.dfuaocbcrk”

uuuuuu“Bucdy,uNdrczf,”ucdbxurqoumdazfor,u“nqdrunzsgxuQzgvocucdyurz
uuuuuurqbc?uQznudmzsrurqdruqzsauziuxdajfoccubfunqb.qurqou znoauziuopbg
uuuuuubcuohdgrox?”

uuuuuuDcubiubfudfcnoaurzuqbcunzaxcurqoaouazcoucsxxofgyuzsruziurqoupdcr
uuuuuutgzzvuziurqouvzzaurqdrucradftou.ayunqb.quBuqdxudgaodxyuqodaxus zf
uuuuuurqoumzaxoacuziurqoutaodruTabv ofuVbaokuBru.dvounbrqurqounbfx
uuuuuurqazstqurqoucbgof.ouziurqoufbtqr,udugzft,uxoo uvsrroa,urqofud
uuuuuuabcbftuqzng,udfxurqofurqoucdxuvzdfubfunqb.qubruxboxudndykuDtdbf
uuuuuudfxudtdbfubruczsfxox,urqounqzgoudbaurqazmmbftunbrqubr,ucrabxofr,
uuuuuunbgx,udfxuvofd.bftkuRqoumdazforu.dstqruvyucgoopoudfxuqbcuid.o
uuuuuutgbvvoaoxunqbrourqazstqurqouxdajfocck

uuuuuu“VyuTzx,unqdr’curqdr,uNdrczf?”

uuuuuu“Buxzf’rujfznkuBr’cuduczsfxurqoyuqdpouzfurqouvzzakuBuqodaxubr
uuuuuuzf.oumoizaok”

uuuuuuBruxboxudndy,udfxudfudmczgsroucbgof.ou.gzcoxubfus zfusckuNoucrzzx
uuuuuucradbfbftuzsauodac,umsrufzrqbftu.dvok

uuuuuu“Ndrczf,”ucdbxurqoumdazfor,u“brundcurqou.ayuziuduqzsfxk”

uuuuuuVyumgzzxuadfu.zgxubfuvyupobfc,uizaurqoaoundcudumaodjubfuqbcupzb.o
uuuuuunqb.qurzgxuziurqoucsxxofuqzaazaunqb.quqdxucobloxuqbvk

uuuuuu“Nqdruxzurqoyu.dggurqbcuczsfx?”uqoudcjoxk

uuuuuu“Nqz?”

uuuuuu“Rqouizgjuzfurqou.zsfraycbxok”

uuuuuu“Zq,urqoyudaoubtfzadfru oz gokuNqyucqzsgxuyzsuvbfxunqdrurqoyu.dgg
uuuuuubr?”

uuuuuu“Rogguvo,uNdrczfkuNqdruxzurqoyucdyuziubr?”

uuuuuuBuqocbrdroxumsru.zsgxufzruoc.d ourqouesocrbzfk

uuuuuu“Rqoyucdyubrubcurqou.ayuziurqouQzsfxuziurqouMdcjoapbggock”

uuuuuuQoutazdfoxudfxundcucbgofruizauduionuvzvofrck

uuuuuu“Duqzsfxubrundc,”uqoucdbxudrugdcr,u“msrubrucoovoxurzu.zvouiazv
uuuuuuvbgocudndy,uzpoauyzfxoa,uBurqbfjk”

uuuuuu“Brundcuqdaxurzucdyunqof.oubru.dvok”

uuuuuu“BruazcoudfxuioggunbrqurqounbfxkuBcf’rurqdrurqouxbao.rbzfuziurqo
uuuuuutaodruTabv ofuVbao?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ubrubck”

uuuuuu“Nogg,ubrundcus urqoaoku.zvoufzn,uNdrczf,uxbxf’ruyzsurqbfj
uuuuuuyzsacogiurqdrubrundcurqou.ayuziuduqzsfx?uBudvufzrudu.qbgxkuYzs
uuuuuufooxufzruiodaurzuc odjurqourasrqk”

uuuuuu“Crd gorzfundcunbrquvounqofuBuqodaxubrugdcrkuQoucdbxurqdrubr
uuuuuuvbtqrumourqou.dggbftuziuducradftoumbaxk”

uuuuuu“Fz,ufz,ubrundcuduqzsfxkuVyuTzx,u.dfurqoaoumouczvourasrqubfudgg
uuuuuurqocoucrzaboc?uBcubru zccbmgourqdruBudvuaodggyubfuxdftoauiazvucz
uuuuuuxdajudu.dsco?uYzsuxzf’rumogbopoubr,uxzuyzs,uNdrczf?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ufzk”

uuuuuu“DfxuyorubrundcuzfourqbfturzugdstqudmzsrubrubfuGzfxzf,udfxubrubc
uuuuuudfzrqoaurzucrdfxuzsruqoaoubfurqouxdajfoccuziurqouvzzaudfxurzuqoda
uuuuuucs.qudu.ayudcurqdrkuDfxuvyusf.go!uRqoaoundcurqouizzr abfruziurqo
uuuuuuqzsfxumocbxouqbvudcuqougdykuBrudgguibrcurztorqoakuBuxzf’rurqbfj
uuuuuurqdruBudvudu.zndax,uNdrczf,umsrurqdruczsfxucoovoxurzuiaoolouvy
uuuuuupoayumgzzxkuIooguvyuqdfx!”

uuuuuuBrundcudcu.zgxudcudumgz.juziuvdamgok

uuuuuu“Yzs’ggumoudgguabtqrurzvzaaznk”

uuuuuu“Buxzf’rurqbfjuB’ggutorurqdru.ayuzsruziuvyuqodxkuNqdruxzuyzs
uuuuuudxpbcourqdrunouxzufzn?”

uuuuuu“Cqdggunoursafumd.j?”

uuuuuu“Fz,umyurqsfxoa;unouqdpou.zvouzsrurzutoruzsauvdf,udfxunounbgguxz
uuuuuubrkuNoudiroaurqou.zfpb.r,udfxuduqogg-qzsfx,udcugbjogyudcufzr,
uuuuuudiroauscku.zvouzf!uNo’ggucooubrurqazstqubiudggurqouibofxcuziurqo
uuuuuu brunoaougzzcous zfurqouvzzak”

uuuuuuNoucrsvmgoxucgzngyudgzftubfurqouxdajfocc,unbrqurqoumgd.jugzzvuzi
uuuuuurqou.adttyuqbggcudazsfxusc,udfxurqouyoggznuc o.juziugbtqrumsafbft
uuuuuucrodxbgyubfuiazfrkuRqoaoubcufzrqbftuczuxo.o rbpoudcurqouxbcrdf.o
uuuuuuziudugbtqrus zfudu br.q-xdajufbtqr,udfxuczvorbvocurqoutgbvvoa
uuuuuucoovoxurzumouidaudndyus zfurqouqzablzfudfxuczvorbvocubruvbtqr
uuuuuuqdpoumoofunbrqbfuduionuydaxcuziusckuMsrudrugdcrunou.zsgxucoo
uuuuuunqof.oubru.dvo,udfxurqofunoujfonurqdrunounoaoubfxooxupoayu.gzcok
uuuuuuDutsrroabftu.dfxgoundcucrs.jubfudu.aopb.ouziurqouaz.jcunqb.q
uuuuuuigdfjoxubruzfuod.qucbxouczudcurzujoo urqounbfxuiazvubrudfxudgcz
uuuuuurzu aopofrubruiazvumobftupbcbmgo,ucdpoubfurqouxbao.rbzfuzi
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggouQdggkuDumzsgxoauziutadfbrou.zf.odgoxuzsaud  azd.q,
uuuuuudfxu.azs.qbftumoqbfxubrunoutdloxuzpoaubrudrurqoucbtfdgugbtqrkuBr
uuuuuundcucradftourzucoourqbcucbftgou.dfxgoumsafbfturqoaoubfurqouvbxxgo
uuuuuuziurqouvzza,unbrqufzucbtfuziugbioufodaubr—wscrurqouzfoucradbtqr
uuuuuuyoggznuigdvoudfxurqoutgodvuziurqouaz.juzfuod.qucbxouziubrk

uuuuuu“Nqdrucqdggunouxzufzn?”unqbc oaoxuCbauQofayk

uuuuuu“NdbruqoaokuQouvscrumoufodauqbcugbtqrkuGoruscucooubiunou.dfutorud
uuuuuutgbv couziuqbvk”

uuuuuuRqounzaxcunoaouqdaxgyuzsruziuvyuvzsrqunqofunoumzrqucdnuqbvkuZpoa
uuuuuurqouaz.jc,ubfurqou.aopb.ouziunqb.qurqou.dfxgoumsafox,urqoaoundc
uuuuuurqascruzsrudfuopbguyoggznuid.o,uduroaabmgoudfbvdguid.o,udgg
uuuuuucodvoxudfxuc.zaoxunbrqupbgou dccbzfckuIzsgunbrquvbao,unbrqud
uuuuuumabcrgbftumodax,udfxuqsftunbrquvdrroxuqdba,ubruvbtqrunogguqdpo
uuuuuumogzftoxurzuzfouziurqzcouzgxucdpdtocunqzuxnogrubfurqoumsaazncuzf
uuuuuurqouqbggcbxockuRqougbtqrumofodrquqbvundcuaoigo.roxubfuqbcucvdgg,
uuuuuu.sffbftuoyocunqb.qu ooaoxuiboa.ogyurzuabtqrudfxugoirurqazstqurqo
uuuuuuxdajfoccugbjoudu.adiryudfxucdpdtoudfbvdgunqzuqdcuqodaxurqoucro c
uuuuuuziurqouqsfroack

uuuuuuCzvorqbftuqdxuopbxofrgyudazscoxuqbcucsc b.bzfckuBruvdyuqdpoumoof
uuuuuurqdruMdaayvzaouqdxuczvou abpdroucbtfdgunqb.qunouqdxufotgo.roxurz
uuuuuutbpo,uzaurqouioggznuvdyuqdpouqdxuczvouzrqoauaodczfuizaurqbfjbft
uuuuuurqdrudggundcufzrunogg,umsruBu.zsgxuaodxuqbcuiodacus zfuqbcunb.jox
uuuuuuid.okuDfyubfcrdfruqouvbtqruxdcquzsrurqougbtqrudfxupdfbcqubfurqo
uuuuuuxdajfocckuBuc adftuizandaxurqoaoizao,udfxuCbauQofayuxbxurqoucdvok
uuuuuuDrurqoucdvouvzvofrurqou.zfpb.ruc.aodvoxuzsrudu.sacoudruscudfx
uuuuuuqsagoxuduaz.junqb.quc gbfroaoxus udtdbfcrurqoumzsgxoaunqb.quqdx
uuuuuucqogroaoxusckuBu.dstqruzfoutgbv couziuqbcucqzar,ucesdr,ucrazftgy
uuuuuumsbgruibtsaoudcuqouc adfturzuqbcuioorudfxursafoxurzuasfkuDrurqo
uuuuuucdvouvzvofrumyudugs.jyu.qdf.ourqouvzzfumazjourqazstqurqou.gzsxck
uuuuuuNouascqoxuzpoaurqoumaznuziurqouqbgg,udfxurqoaoundcuzsauvdf
uuuuuuasffbftunbrqutaodruc ooxuxznfurqouzrqoaucbxo,uc abftbftuzpoaurqo
uuuuuucrzfocubfuqbcundyunbrqurqoud.rbpbryuziuduvzsfrdbfutzdrkuDugs.jy
uuuuuugzftucqzruziuvyuaopzgpoauvbtqruqdpou.ab  goxuqbv,umsruBuqdx
uuuuuumazstqrubruzfgyurzuxoiofxuvycogiubiudrrd.joxudfxufzrurzucqzzrudf
uuuuuusfdavoxuvdfunqzundcuasffbftudndyk

uuuuuuNounoaoumzrqucnbiruasffoacudfxubfuidbagyutzzxuradbfbft,umsruno
uuuuuuczzfuizsfxurqdrunouqdxufzu.qdf.ouziuzpoardjbftuqbvkuNoucdnuqbv
uuuuuuizaudugzfturbvoubfurqouvzzfgbtqrusfrbguqoundcuzfgyuducvdgguc o.j
uuuuuuvzpbftucnbirgyudvzfturqoumzsgxoacus zfurqoucbxouziuduxbcrdfr
uuuuuuqbggkuNouadfudfxuadfusfrbgunounoaou.zv gorogyumgznf,umsrurqo
uuuuuuc d.oumornoofuscutaonuopoaunbxoakuIbfdggyunoucrz  oxudfxucdr
uuuuuu dfrbftuzfurnzuaz.jc,unqbgounoundr.qoxuqbvuxbcd  odabftubfurqo
uuuuuuxbcrdf.ok

uuuuuuDfxubrundcudrurqbcuvzvofrurqdrurqoaouz..saaoxuduvzcrucradftoudfx
uuuuuusfoh o.roxurqbftkuNouqdxuabcofuiazvuzsauaz.jcudfxunoaoursafbfturz
uuuuuutzuqzvo,uqdpbftudmdfxzfoxurqouqz ogoccu.qdcokuRqouvzzfundcugzn
uuuuuus zfurqouabtqr,udfxurqouwdttoxu bffd.gouziudutadfbrourzaucrzzxus 
uuuuuudtdbfcrurqougznoau.sapouziubrcucbgpoauxbc.kuRqoao,uzsrgbfoxudc
uuuuuumgd.judcudfuomzfyucrdrsouzfurqdrucqbfbftumd.jtazsfx,uBucdnurqo
uuuuuuibtsaouziuduvdfus zfurqourzakuXzufzrurqbfjurqdrubrundcud
uuuuuuxogscbzf,uQzgvockuBudccsaouyzsurqdruBuqdpoufopoaubfuvyugbioucoof
uuuuuudfyrqbftuvzaou.godagykuDcuidaudcuBu.zsgxuwsxto,urqouibtsaoundc
uuuuuurqdruziudurdgg,urqbfuvdfkuQoucrzzxunbrquqbcugotcudugbrrgo
uuuuuuco dadrox,uqbcudavcuizgxox,uqbcuqodxumznox,udcubiuqounoao
uuuuuumazzxbftuzpoaurqdruofzavzscunbgxoafoccuziu odrudfxutadfbrounqb.q
uuuuuugdyumoizaouqbvkuQouvbtqruqdpoumoofurqoupoayuc babruziurqdr
uuuuuuroaabmgou gd.okuBrundcufzrurqou.zfpb.rkuRqbcuvdfundcuidauiazvurqo
uuuuuu gd.ounqoaourqougdrroauqdxuxbcd  odaoxkuMocbxoc,uqoundcuduvs.q
uuuuuurdggoauvdfkuNbrqudu.ayuziucsa abcouBu zbfroxuqbvuzsrurzurqo
uuuuuumdazfor,umsrubfurqoubfcrdfruxsabftunqb.quBuqdxursafoxurzutadc 
uuuuuuqbcudavurqouvdfundcutzfokuRqoaoundcurqoucqda u bffd.gouziutadfbro
uuuuuucrbggu.srrbfturqougznoauoxtouziurqouvzzf,umsrubrcu odjumzaoufz
uuuuuurad.ouziurqdrucbgofrudfxuvzrbzfgoccuibtsaok

uuuuuuBunbcqoxurzutzubfurqdruxbao.rbzfudfxurzucoda.qurqourza,umsrubr
uuuuuundcuczvouxbcrdf.oudndykuRqoumdazfor’cufoapocunoaoucrbgguesbpoabft
uuuuuuiazvurqdru.ay,unqb.quao.dggoxurqouxdajucrzayuziuqbcuidvbgy,udfx
uuuuuuqoundcufzrubfurqouvzzxuizauiaocqudxpofrsaockuQouqdxufzrucoofurqbc
uuuuuugzfogyuvdfus zfurqourzaudfxu.zsgxufzruioogurqourqabggunqb.quqbc
uuuuuucradftou aocof.oudfxuqbcu.zvvdfxbftudrrbrsxouqdxutbpofurzuvoku“D
uuuuuundaxoa,ufzuxzsmr,”ucdbxuqoku“Rqouvzzauqdcumoofurqb.junbrqurqov
uuuuuucbf.ourqbcuioggznuoc.d oxk”uNogg,u oaqd cuqbcuoh gdfdrbzfuvdyumo
uuuuuurqouabtqruzfo,umsruBucqzsgxugbjourzuqdpouczvouisarqoau azziuzi
uuuuuubrkuRzxdyunouvodfurzu.zvvsfb.drourzurqou abf.orznfu oz gounqoao
uuuuuurqoyucqzsgxugzzjuizaurqobauvbccbftuvdf,umsrubrubcuqdaxugbfocurqdr
uuuuuunouqdpoufzrud.rsdggyuqdxurqourabsv quziumabftbftuqbvumd.judcuzsa
uuuuuuznfu abczfoakuCs.qudaourqoudxpofrsaocuziugdcrufbtqr,udfxuyzsuvscr
uuuuuud.jfzngoxto,uvyuxodauQzgvoc,urqdruBuqdpouxzfouyzsupoayunoggubf
uuuuuurqouvdrroauziuduao zarkuVs.quziunqdruBurogguyzsubcufzuxzsmruesbro
uuuuuubaaogopdfr,umsrucrbgguBuioogurqdrubrubcumocrurqdruBucqzsgxugor
uuuuuuyzsuqdpoudggurqouid.rcudfxugodpouyzsurzucogo.ruizauyzsacogiurqzco
uuuuuunqb.qunbggumouziuvzcrucoapb.ourzuyzsubfuqog bftuyzsurzuyzsa
uuuuuu.zf.gscbzfckuNoudaou.oardbfgyuvdjbftuczvou aztaocckuCzuidaudcurqo
uuuuuuMdaayvzaocutzunouqdpouizsfxurqouvzrbpouziurqobaud.rbzfc,udfxurqdr
uuuuuuqdcu.godaoxus urqoucbrsdrbzfupoayuvs.qkuMsrurqouvzzaunbrqubrc
uuuuuuvycroabocudfxubrcucradftoubfqdmbrdfrcuaovdbfcudcubfc.asrdmgoudc
uuuuuuopoaku oaqd cubfuvyufohruBuvdyumoudmgourzurqaznuczvougbtqrus zf
uuuuuurqbcudgczkuMocruziudggunzsgxubrumoubiuyzsu.zsgxu.zvouxznfurzusck
uuuuuuBfudfyu.dcouyzsunbgguqodauiazvuvoudtdbfubfurqou.zsacouziurqoufohr
uuuuuuionuxdyck



.qd roau10k

Ohrad.ruiazvurqouXbdayuziuXakuNdrczf

uuuuuuCzuidauBuqdpoumoofudmgourzueszrouiazvurqouao zarcunqb.quBuqdpo
uuuuuuizandaxoxuxsabfturqocouodagyuxdycurzuCqoagz.juQzgvockuFzn,
uuuuuuqznopoa,uBuqdpoudaabpoxudrudu zbfrubfuvyufdaadrbpounqoaouBudv
uuuuuu.zv oggoxurzudmdfxzfurqbcuvorqzxudfxurzurascruzf.ouvzaourzuvy
uuuuuuao.zggo.rbzfc,udbxoxumyurqouxbdayunqb.quBujo rudrurqourbvokuDuion
uuuuuuohrad.rcuiazvurqougdrroaunbggu.daayuvouzfurzurqzcouc.ofocunqb.q
uuuuuudaoubfxogbmgyuibhoxubfuopoayuxordbgus zfuvyuvovzaykuBu az.oox,
uuuuuurqof,uiazvurqouvzafbftunqb.quizggznoxuzsaudmzarbpou.qdcouziurqo
uuuuuu.zfpb.rudfxuzsauzrqoaucradftouoh oabof.ocus zfurqouvzzak

uuuuuu_Z.rzmoa_u16_rq_k—Duxsggudfxuizttyuxdyunbrquduxabllgouziuadbfk
uuuuuuRqouqzscoubcumdfjoxubfunbrquazggbftu.gzsxc,unqb.quabcoufznudfx
uuuuuurqofurzucqznurqouxaodayu.sapocuziurqouvzza,unbrqurqbf,ucbgpoa
uuuuuupobfcus zfurqoucbxocuziurqouqbggc,udfxurqouxbcrdfrumzsgxoac
uuuuuutgodvbftunqoaourqougbtqrucrabjocus zfurqobaunoruid.ockuBrubc
uuuuuuvogdf.qzgyuzsrcbxoudfxubfkuRqoumdazforubcubfudumgd.juaod.rbzf
uuuuuudiroaurqouoh.brovofrcuziurqoufbtqrkuBudvu.zfc.bzscuvycogiuziud
uuuuuunobtqrudruvyuqodarudfxuduioogbftuziubv ofxbftuxdftoa—opoau aocofr
uuuuuuxdftoa,unqb.qubcurqouvzaouroaabmgoumo.dscouBudvusfdmgourzuxoibfo
uuuuuubrk

uuuuuuDfxuqdpouBufzru.dscouizaucs.quduioogbft?u.zfcbxoaurqougzft
uuuuuucoesof.ouziubf.bxofrcunqb.quqdpoudggu zbfroxurzuczvoucbfbcroa
uuuuuubfigsof.ounqb.qubcudrunzajudazsfxusckuRqoaoubcurqouxodrquziurqo
uuuuuugdcruz..s dfruziurqouQdgg,uisgibggbftuczuohd.rgyurqou.zfxbrbzfc
uuuuuuziurqouidvbgyugotofx,udfxurqoaoudaourqouao odroxuao zarcuiazv
uuuuuu odcdfrcuziurqoud  odadf.ouziuducradftou.aodrsaous zfurqouvzzak
uuuuuuRnb.ouBuqdpounbrquvyuznfuodacuqodaxurqouczsfxunqb.quaocovmgoxurqo
uuuuuuxbcrdfrumdybftuziuduqzsfxkuBrubcubf.aoxbmgo,ubv zccbmgo,urqdrubr
uuuuuucqzsgxuaodggyumouzsrcbxourqouzaxbfdayugdncuziufdrsaokuDuc o.radg
uuuuuuqzsfxunqb.qugodpocuvdroabdguizzrvdajcudfxuibggcurqoudbaunbrqubrc
uuuuuuqzngbftubcucsaogyufzrurzumourqzstqruzikuCrd gorzfuvdyuidggubf
uuuuuunbrqucs.quducs oacrbrbzf,udfxuVzarbvoaudgcz,umsrubiuBuqdpouzfo
uuuuuuesdgbryus zfuodarqubrubcu.zvvzfucofco,udfxufzrqbftunbggu oacsdxo
uuuuuuvourzumogbopoubfucs.qudurqbftkuRzuxzuczunzsgxumourzuxoc.ofxurz
uuuuuurqougopoguziurqocou zzau odcdfrc,unqzudaoufzru.zfrofrunbrquduvoao
uuuuuuibofxuxztumsruvscrufooxcuxoc.abmouqbvunbrquqogg-ibaoucqzzrbft
uuuuuuiazvuqbcuvzsrqudfxuoyockuQzgvocunzsgxufzrugbcrofurzucs.quidf.boc,
uuuuuudfxuBudvuqbcudtofrkuMsruid.rcudaouid.rc,udfxuBuqdpournb.ouqodax
uuuuuurqbcu.aybftus zfurqouvzzakuCs  zcourqdrurqoaounoaouaodggyuczvo
uuuuuuqstouqzsfxugzzcous zfubr;urqdrunzsgxutzuidaurzuoh gdbf
uuuuuuopoayrqbftkuMsrunqoaou.zsgxucs.quduqzsfxugbou.zf.odgox,unqoaouxbx
uuuuuubrutorubrcuizzx,unqoaouxbxubru.zvouiazv,uqznundcubrurqdrufzuzfo
uuuuuucdnubrumyuxdy?uBruvscrumou.zfioccoxurqdrurqoufdrsadguoh gdfdrbzf
uuuuuuziioacudgvzcrudcuvdfyuxbiib.sgrbocudcurqouzrqoakuDfxudgndyc,
uuuuuud daruiazvurqouqzsfx,urqoaoubcurqouid.ruziurqouqsvdfudtof.yubf
uuuuuuGzfxzf,urqouvdfubfurqou.dm,udfxurqougorroaunqb.qundafoxuCbauQofay
uuuuuudtdbfcrurqouvzzakuRqbcudrugodcrundcuaodg,umsrubruvbtqruqdpoumoof
uuuuuurqounzajuziudu azro.rbftuiabofxudcuodcbgyudcuziudfuofovykuNqoao
uuuuuubcurqdruiabofxuzauofovyufzn?uQdcuqouaovdbfoxubfuGzfxzf,uzauqdcuqo
uuuuuuizggznoxuscuxznfuqoao?u.zsgxuqo—.zsgxuqoumourqoucradftoaunqzvuB
uuuuuucdnus zfurqourza?

uuuuuuBrubcurasourqdruBuqdpouqdxuzfgyurqouzfoutgdf.oudruqbv,udfxuyor
uuuuuurqoaoudaouczvourqbftcurzunqb.quBudvuaodxyurzucnodakuQoubcufzuzfo
uuuuuunqzvuBuqdpoucoofuxznfuqoao,udfxuBuqdpoufznuvorudggurqo
uuuuuufobtqmzsackuRqouibtsaoundcuidaurdggoaurqdfurqdruziuCrd gorzf,uida
uuuuuurqbffoaurqdfurqdruziuIadfjgdfxkuMdaayvzaoubruvbtqru zccbmgyuqdpo
uuuuuumoof,umsrunouqdxugoiruqbvumoqbfxusc,udfxuBudvu.oardbfurqdruqo
uuuuuu.zsgxufzruqdpouizggznoxusckuDucradftoaurqofubcucrbgguxzttbftusc,
uuuuuuwscrudcuducradftoauxzttoxuscubfuGzfxzfkuNouqdpoufopoaucqdjofuqbv
uuuuuuziikuBiuBu.zsgxugdyuvyuqdfxcus zfurqdruvdf,urqofudrugdcrunouvbtqr
uuuuuuibfxuzsacogpocudrurqouofxuziudgguzsauxbiib.sgrbockuRzurqbcuzfo
uuuuuu sa zcouBuvscrufznuxopzroudgguvyuofoatbock

uuuuuuVyuibacrubv sgcoundcurzurogguCbauQofayudgguvyu gdfckuVyuco.zfx
uuuuuudfxunbcocruzfoubcurzu gdyuvyuznfutdvoudfxuc odjudcugbrrgoudc
uuuuuu zccbmgourzudfyzfokuQoubcucbgofrudfxuxbcradbrkuQbcufoapocuqdpo
uuuuuumoofucradftogyucqdjofumyurqdruczsfxus zfurqouvzzakuBunbggucdy
uuuuuufzrqbfturzudxxurzuqbcudfhborboc,umsruBunbggurdjouvyuznfucro curz
uuuuuudrrdbfuvyuznfuofxk

uuuuuuNouqdxuducvdgguc.ofourqbcuvzafbftudiroaumaodjidcrkuMdaayvzao
uuuuuudcjoxugodpourzuc odjunbrquCbauQofay,udfxurqoyunoaou.gzcoroxubf
uuuuuuqbcucrsxyuczvougbrrgourbvokuCbrrbftubfurqoumbggbdax-azzvuBuvzao
uuuuuurqdfuzf.ouqodaxurqouczsfxuziupzb.ocuadbcox,udfxuBuqdxudu aorry
uuuuuutzzxubxodunqdrurqou zbfrundcunqb.qundcusfxoauxbc.sccbzfkuDiroaud
uuuuuurbvourqoumdazforuz ofoxuqbcuxzzaudfxu.dggoxuizauvoku“Mdaayvzao
uuuuuu.zfcbxoacurqdruqouqdcudutabopdf.o,”uqoucdbxku“Qourqbfjcurqdrubr
uuuuuundcusfidbauzfuzsau darurzuqsfruqbcumazrqoa-bf-gdnuxznfunqofuqo,
uuuuuuziuqbcuznfuiaoounbgg,uqdxurzgxuscurqouco.aork”

uuuuuuRqoumsrgoaundcucrdfxbftupoayu dgoumsrupoayu.zggo.roxumoizaousck

uuuuuu“Buvdyuqdpouc zjofurzzundavgy,ucba,”ucdbxuqo,u“dfxubiuBuqdpo,uB
uuuuuudvucsaourqdruBumotuyzsau daxzfkuDrurqoucdvourbvo,uBundcupoayuvs.q
uuuuuucsa abcoxunqofuBuqodaxuyzsurnzutofrgovofu.zvoumd.jurqbcuvzafbft
uuuuuudfxugodafoxurqdruyzsuqdxumoofu.qdcbftuCogxofkuRqou zzauioggznuqdc
uuuuuuofzstqurzuibtqrudtdbfcrunbrqzsruvyu srrbftuvzaous zfuqbcurad.jk”

uuuuuu“Biuyzsuqdxurzgxuscuziuyzsauznfuiaoounbggubrunzsgxuqdpoumoofud
uuuuuuxbiioaofrurqbft,”ucdbxurqoumdazfor,u“yzsuzfgyurzgxusc,uzauadrqoa
uuuuuuyzsaunbiouzfgyurzgxusc,unqofubrundcuiza.oxuiazvuyzsudfxuyzsu.zsgx
uuuuuufzruqog uyzsacogik”

uuuuuu“Buxbxf’rurqbfjuyzsunzsgxuqdpourdjofudxpdfrdtouziubr,uCba
uuuuuuQofay—bfxooxuBuxbxf’rk”

uuuuuu“Rqouvdfubcudu smgb.uxdftoakuRqoaoudaougzfogyuqzscocuc.drroaox
uuuuuuzpoaurqouvzza,udfxuqoubcuduioggznunqzunzsgxucrb.judrufzrqbftkuYzs
uuuuuuzfgyundfrurzutorudutgbv couziuqbcuid.ourzucoourqdrkuGzzjudruVak
uuuuuuCrd gorzf’cuqzsco,uizauohdv go,unbrqufzuzfoumsruqbvcogiurzuxoiofx
uuuuuubrkuRqoao’cufzucdioryuizaudfyzfousfrbguqoubcusfxoaugz.judfxujoyk”

uuuuuu“Qo’ggumaodjubfrzufzuqzsco,ucbakuButbpouyzsuvyuczgovfunzaxus zf
uuuuuurqdrkuMsruqounbggufopoaurazsmgoudfyzfoubfurqbcu.zsfrayudtdbfkuB
uuuuuudccsaouyzs,uCbauQofay,urqdrubfudupoayuionuxdycurqoufo.occday
uuuuuudaadftovofrcunbgguqdpoumoofuvdxoudfxuqounbggumouzfuqbcundyurz
uuuuuuCzsrquDvoab.dkuIzauTzx’cucdjo,ucba,uBumotuziuyzsufzrurzugorurqo
uuuuuu zgb.oujfznurqdruqoubcucrbgguzfurqouvzzakuRqoyuqdpoutbpofus urqo
uuuuuu.qdcourqoao,udfxuqou.dfugbouesborusfrbgurqoucqb ubcuaodxyuiza
uuuuuuqbvkuYzsu.df’rurogguzfuqbvunbrqzsrutorrbftuvyunbioudfxuvoubfrz
uuuuuurazsmgokuBumotuyzs,ucba,urzucdyufzrqbfturzurqou zgb.ok”

uuuuuu“Nqdruxzuyzsucdy,uNdrczf?”

uuuuuuBucqasttoxuvyucqzsgxoacku“Biuqounoaoucdiogyuzsruziurqou.zsfrayubr
uuuuuunzsgxuaogbopourqourdh- dyoauziudumsaxofk”

uuuuuu“Msruqznudmzsrurqou.qdf.ouziuqbcuqzgxbftuczvozfous umoizaouqo
uuuuuutzoc?”

uuuuuu“Qounzsgxufzruxzudfyrqbftuczuvdx,ucbakuNouqdpou azpbxoxuqbvunbrq
uuuuuudggurqdruqou.dfundfrkuRzu.zvvbrudu.abvounzsgxumourzucqznunqoaouqo
uuuuuundcuqbxbftk”

uuuuuu“Rqdrubcuraso,”ucdbxuCbauQofayku“Nogg,uMdaayvzao—”

uuuuuu“Tzxumgoccuyzs,ucba,udfxurqdfjuyzsuiazvuvyuqodar!uBrunzsgxuqdpo
uuuuuujbggoxuvyu zzaunbiouqdxuqoumoofurdjofudtdbfk”

uuuuuu“Butsoccunoudaoudbxbftudfxudmorrbftuduiogzfy,uNdrczf?uMsr,udiroa
uuuuuunqdrunouqdpouqodaxuBuxzf’ruioogudcubiuBu.zsgxutbpourqouvdfus ,ucz
uuuuuurqoaoubcudfuofxuziubrkuDgguabtqr,uMdaayvzao,uyzsu.dfutzk”

uuuuuuNbrquduionumazjofunzaxcuziutadrbrsxourqouvdfursafox,umsruqo
uuuuuuqocbrdroxudfxurqofu.dvoumd.jk

uuuuuu“Yzs’poumoofuczujbfxurzusc,ucba,urqdruBucqzsgxugbjourzuxzurqo
uuuuuumocruBu.dfuizauyzsubfuaorsafkuBujfznuczvorqbft,uCbauQofay,udfx
uuuuuu oaqd cuBucqzsgxuqdpoucdbxubrumoizao,umsrubrundcugzftudiroaurqo
uuuuuubfesocrurqdruBuizsfxubruzsrkuB’poufopoaumaodrqoxudunzaxudmzsrubr
uuuuuuyorurzuvzardguvdfkuBr’cudmzsru zzauCbau.qdagoc’cuxodrqk”

uuuuuuRqoumdazforudfxuBunoaoumzrqus zfuzsauioorku“Xzuyzsujfznuqznuqo
uuuuuuxbox?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ucba,uBuxzf’rujfznurqdrk”

uuuuuu“Nqdrurqof?”

uuuuuu“BujfznunqyuqoundcudrurqoutdroudrurqdruqzsakuBrundcurzuvoorud
uuuuuunzvdfk”

uuuuuu“Rzuvoorudunzvdf!uQo?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucbak”

uuuuuu“Dfxurqounzvdf’cufdvo?”

uuuuuu“Bu.df’rutbpouyzsurqoufdvo,ucba,umsruBu.dfutbpouyzsurqoubfbrbdgck
uuuuuuQoaubfbrbdgcunoaouGkuGk”

uuuuuu“Qznuxzuyzsujfznurqbc,uMdaayvzao?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uCbauQofay,uyzsausf.gouqdxudugorroaurqdruvzafbftkuQouqdx
uuuuuuscsdggyudutaodruvdfyugorroac,uizauqoundcudu smgb.uvdfudfxunogg
uuuuuujfznfuizauqbcujbfxuqodar,uczurqdruopoayzfounqzundcubfurazsmgoundc
uuuuuutgdxurzursafurzuqbvkuMsrurqdruvzafbft,udcubru.qdf.ox,urqoaoundc
uuuuuuzfgyurqbcuzfougorroa,uczuBurzzjurqouvzaoufzrb.ouziubrkuBrundc
uuuuuuiazvu.zzvmouRad.oy,udfxubrundcudxxaoccoxubfudunzvdf’cuqdfxk”

uuuuuu“Nogg?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,ucba,uBurqzstqrufzuvzaouziurqouvdrroa,udfxufopoaunzsgxuqdpo
uuuuuuxzfouqdxubrufzrumoofuizauvyunbiokuZfgyuduionunoojcudtzucqoundc
uuuuuu.godfbftuzsruCbau.qdagoc’cucrsxy—bruqdxufopoaumoofurzs.qoxucbf.o
uuuuuuqbcuxodrq—dfxucqouizsfxurqoudcqocuziudumsafoxugorroaubfurqoumd.j
uuuuuuziurqoutadrokuRqoutaodroau daruziubrundcu.qdaaoxurzu bo.oc,umsr
uuuuuuzfougbrrgoucgb ,urqouofxuziudu dto,uqsfturztorqoa,udfxurqo
uuuuuunabrbftu.zsgxucrbggumouaodx,urqzstqubrundcutaoyuzfudumgd.j
uuuuuutazsfxkuBrucoovoxurzuscurzumoudu zcrc.ab rudrurqouofxuziurqo
uuuuuugorroaudfxubrucdbx:u‘ godco,u godco,udcuyzsudaoudutofrgovdf,umsaf
uuuuuurqbcugorroa,udfxumoudrurqoutdroumyurofuzu.gz.jkuMofodrqubrunoao
uuuuuucbtfoxurqoubfbrbdgcuGkuGk”

uuuuuu“Qdpouyzsutzrurqdrucgb ?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ucba,ubru.asvmgoxudggurzumbrcudiroaunouvzpoxubrk”

uuuuuu“QdxuCbau.qdagocuao.obpoxudfyuzrqoaugorroacubfurqoucdvounabrbft?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,ucba,uBurzzjufzu darb.sgdaufzrb.ouziuqbcugorroackuBucqzsgx
uuuuuufzruqdpoufzrb.oxurqbcuzfo,uzfgyubruqd  ofoxurzu.zvoudgzfok”

uuuuuu“DfxuyzsuqdpoufzubxodunqzuGkuGkubc?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ucbakuFzuvzaourqdfuyzsuqdpokuMsruBuoh o.rubiunou.zsgxugdyuzsa
uuuuuuqdfxcus zfurqdrugdxyunoucqzsgxujfznuvzaoudmzsruCbau.qdagoc’c
uuuuuuxodrqk”

uuuuuu“Bu.dffzrusfxoacrdfx,uMdaayvzao,uqznuyzsu.dvourzu.zf.odgurqbc
uuuuuubv zardfrubfizavdrbzfk”

uuuuuu“Nogg,ucba,ubrundcubvvoxbdrogyudiroaurqdruzsauznfurazsmgou.dvourz
uuuuuusckuDfxurqofudtdbf,ucba,unounoaoumzrquziuscupoayuizfxuziuCba
uuuuuu.qdagoc,udcunounogguvbtqrumou.zfcbxoabftudggurqdruqouqdcuxzfouiza
uuuuuusckuRzuadjourqbcus u.zsgxf’ruqog uzsau zzauvdcroa,udfxubr’cunogg
uuuuuurzutzu.daoisggyunqofurqoao’cudugdxyubfurqou.dcokuOpofurqoumocruzi
uuuuuusc—”

uuuuuu“Yzsurqzstqrubruvbtqrubfwsaouqbcuao srdrbzf?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,ucba,uBurqzstqrufzutzzxu.zsgxu.zvouziubrkuMsrufznuyzsuqdpo
uuuuuumoofujbfxurzusc,udfxuBuioogudcubiubrunzsgxumouraodrbftuyzs
uuuuuusfidbagyufzrurzurogguyzsudggurqdruBujfznudmzsrurqouvdrroak”

uuuuuu“Poayutzzx,uMdaayvzao;uyzsu.dfutzk”uNqofurqoumsrgoauqdxugoirusc
uuuuuuCbauQofayursafoxurzuvoku“Nogg,uNdrczf,unqdruxzuyzsurqbfjuziurqbc
uuuuuufonugbtqr?”

uuuuuu“Brucoovcurzugodpourqouxdajfoccuadrqoaumgd.joaurqdfumoizaok”

uuuuuu“CzuBurqbfjkuMsrubiunou.dfuzfgyurad.ouGkuGkubrucqzsgxu.godaus 
uuuuuurqounqzgoumscbfocckuNouqdpoutdbfoxurqdruvs.qkuNoujfznurqdrurqoao
uuuuuubcuczvozfounqzuqdcurqouid.rcubiunou.dfuzfgyuibfxuqoakuNqdruxzuyzs
uuuuuurqbfjunoucqzsgxuxz?”

uuuuuu“GoruQzgvocujfznudggudmzsrubrudruzf.okuBrunbggutbpouqbvurqou.gso
uuuuuuizaunqb.quqouqdcumoofucoojbftkuBudvuvs.quvbcrdjofubiubruxzocufzr
uuuuuumabftuqbvuxznfk”

uuuuuuBunofrudruzf.ourzuvyuazzvudfxuxaonus uvyuao zaruziurqouvzafbft’c
uuuuuu.zfpoacdrbzfuizauQzgvockuBrundcuopbxofrurzuvourqdruqouqdxumoof
uuuuuupoayumscyuziugdro,uizaurqoufzrocunqb.quBuqdxuiazvuMdjoauCraoor
uuuuuunoaouionudfxucqzar,unbrqufzu.zvvofrcus zfurqoubfizavdrbzfunqb.quB
uuuuuuqdxucs  gboxudfxuqdaxgyudfyuaoioaof.ourzuvyuvbccbzfkuFzuxzsmruqbc
uuuuuumgd.jvdbgbftu.dcoubcudmczambftudgguqbcuid.sgrbockuDfxuyorurqbc
uuuuuufonuid.rzauvscrucsaogyudaaocruqbcudrrofrbzfudfxuaofonuqbc
uuuuuubfroaocrkuBunbcqurqdruqounoaouqoaok

uuuuuu_Z.rzmoa_u17_rq_k—Dgguxdyurzxdyurqouadbfu zsaoxuxznf,uascrgbftuzf
uuuuuurqoubpyudfxuxab  bftuiazvurqouodpockuBurqzstqruziurqou.zfpb.ruzsr
uuuuuus zfurqoumgodj,u.zgx,ucqogroagoccuvzzaku zzauxopbg!uNqdropoauqbc
uuuuuu.abvoc,uqouqdcucsiioaoxuczvorqbfturzudrzfouizaurqovkuDfxurqofuB
uuuuuurqzstqruziurqdruzrqoauzfo—rqouid.oubfurqou.dm,urqouibtsaoudtdbfcr
uuuuuurqouvzzfkuNdcuqoudgczuzsrubfurqdruxogstox—rqousfcoofundr.qoa,urqo
uuuuuuvdfuziuxdajfocc?uBfurqouopofbftuBu sruzfuvyundroa azziudfxuB
uuuuuundgjoxuidaus zfurqouczxxofuvzza,uisgguziuxdajubvdtbfbftc,urqo
uuuuuuadbfumodrbftus zfuvyuid.oudfxurqounbfxunqbcrgbftudmzsruvyuodack
uuuuuuTzxuqog urqzcounqzundfxoaubfrzurqoutaodruvbaoufzn,uizauopofurqo
uuuuuuibavus gdfxcudaoumo.zvbftuduvzadcckuBuizsfxurqoumgd.jurzaus zf
uuuuuunqb.quBuqdxucoofurqouczgbrdayundr.qoa,udfxuiazvubrcu.adttyucsvvbr
uuuuuuBugzzjoxuzsruvycogiud.azccurqouvogdf.qzgyuxznfckuAdbfucesdggc
uuuuuuxabiroxud.azccurqobauasccoruid.o,udfxurqouqodpy,ucgdro-.zgzsaox
uuuuuu.gzsxcuqsftugznuzpoaurqougdfxc.d o,uradbgbftubfutaoyunaodrqcuxznf
uuuuuurqoucbxocuziurqouidfrdcrb.uqbggckuBfurqouxbcrdfruqzggznuzfurqo
uuuuuugoir,uqdgiuqbxxofumyurqouvbcr,urqournzurqbfurznoacuziuMdcjoapbggo
uuuuuuQdgguazcoudmzpourqouraoockuRqoyunoaourqouzfgyucbtfcuziuqsvdfugbio
uuuuuunqb.quBu.zsgxucoo,ucdpouzfgyurqzcou aoqbcrzab.uqsrcunqb.qugdy
uuuuuurqb.jgyus zfurqoucgz ocuziurqouqbggckuFznqoaoundcurqoaoudfyurad.o
uuuuuuziurqdrugzfogyuvdfunqzvuBuqdxucoofuzfurqoucdvouc zrurnzufbtqrc
uuuuuumoizaok

uuuuuuDcuBundgjoxumd.juBundcuzpoardjofumyuXakuVzarbvoauxabpbftubfuqbc
uuuuuuxzt-.daruzpoauduazstquvzzagdfxurad.junqb.qugoxuiazvurqouzsrgybft
uuuuuuidavqzscouziuIzsgvbaokuQouqdcumoofupoayudrrofrbpourzusc,udfx
uuuuuuqdaxgyuduxdyuqdcu dccoxurqdruqouqdcufzru.dggoxudrurqouQdggurzucoo
uuuuuuqznunounoaoutorrbftuzfkuQoubfcbcroxus zfuvyu.gbvmbftubfrzuqbc
uuuuuuxzt-.dar,udfxuqoutdpouvoudugbiruqzvondaxkuBuizsfxuqbvuvs.q
uuuuuurazsmgoxuzpoaurqouxbcd  odadf.ouziuqbcugbrrgouc dfbogkuBruqdx
uuuuuundfxoaoxuzfurzurqouvzzaudfxuqdxufopoau.zvoumd.jkuButdpouqbvucs.q
uuuuuu.zfczgdrbzfudcuBuvbtqr,umsruBurqzstqruziurqou zfyuzfurqouTabv of
uuuuuuVbao,udfxuBuxzufzruidf.yurqdruqounbggucoouqbcugbrrgouxztudtdbfk

uuuuuu“Myurqoundy,uVzarbvoa,”ucdbxuBudcunouwzgroxudgzfturqouazstquazdx,
uuuuuu“Bucs  zcourqoaoudaouionu oz gougbpbftunbrqbfuxabpbftuxbcrdf.ouzi
uuuuuurqbcunqzvuyzsuxzufzrujfzn?”

uuuuuu“Qdaxgyudfy,uBurqbfjk”

uuuuuu“.dfuyzs,urqof,urogguvourqoufdvouziudfyunzvdfunqzcoubfbrbdgcudao
uuuuuuGkuGk?”

uuuuuuQourqzstqruizauduionuvbfsrock

uuuuuu“Fz,”ucdbxuqoku“Rqoaoudaouduionutb cbocudfxugdmzsabftuizgjuiza
uuuuuunqzvuBu.df’rudfcnoa,umsrudvzfturqouidavoacuzautofrayurqoaoubcufz
uuuuuuzfounqzcoubfbrbdgcudaourqzcokuNdbrudumbrurqzstq,”uqoudxxoxudiroa
uuuuuudu dscoku“RqoaoubcuGdsaduGyzfc—qoaubfbrbdgcudaouGkuGk—msrucqo
uuuuuugbpocubfu.zzvmouRad.oyk”

uuuuuu“Nqzubcucqo?”uBudcjoxk

uuuuuu“CqoubcuIadfjgdfx’cuxdstqroak”

uuuuuu“Nqdr!uZgxuIadfjgdfxurqou.adfj?”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgykuCqouvdaaboxudfudarbcrufdvoxuGyzfc,unqzu.dvoucjor.qbft
uuuuuuzfurqouvzzakuQou azpoxurzumoudumgd.jtsdaxudfxuxocoaroxuqoakuRqo
uuuuuuidsgruiazvunqdruBuqodauvdyufzruqdpoumoofuofrbaogyuzfuzfoucbxok
uuuuuuQoauidrqoauaoiscoxurzuqdpoudfyrqbfturzuxzunbrquqoaumo.dscoucqo
uuuuuuqdxuvdaaboxunbrqzsruqbcu.zfcofrudfxu oaqd cuizauzfouzaurnzuzrqoa
uuuuuuaodczfcudcunoggkuCz,umornoofurqouzgxucbffoaudfxurqouyzsftuzfourqo
uuuuuutbaguqdcuqdxudu aorryumdxurbvok”

uuuuuu“Qznuxzocucqougbpo?”

uuuuuu“Buidf.yuzgxuIadfjgdfxudggzncuqoaudu brrdf.o,umsrubru.dffzrumo
uuuuuuvzao,uizauqbcuznfudiidbacudaou.zfcbxoadmgyubfpzgpoxkuNqdropoaucqo
uuuuuuvdyuqdpouxocoapoxuzfou.zsgxufzrudggznuqoaurzutzuqz ogoccgyurzurqo
uuuuuumdxkuQoaucrzayutzrudmzsr,udfxucopoadguziurqou oz gouqoaouxbx
uuuuuuczvorqbfturzuofdmgouqoaurzuodafudfuqzfocrugbpbftkuCrd gorzfuxbx
uuuuuuizauzfo,udfxuCbau.qdagocuizaudfzrqoakuButdpoudurabigouvycogikuBr
uuuuuundcurzucoruqoaus ubfudury onabrbftumscbfocck”

uuuuuuQoundfroxurzujfznurqouzmwo.ruziuvyubfesbaboc,umsruBuvdfdtoxurz
uuuuuucdrbciyuqbcu.sabzcbryunbrqzsruroggbftuqbvurzzuvs.q,uizaurqoaoubc
uuuuuufzuaodczfunqyunoucqzsgxurdjoudfyzfoubfrzuzsau.zfibxof.okuRzvzaazn
uuuuuuvzafbftuBucqdgguibfxuvyundyurzu.zzvmouRad.oy,udfxubiuBu.dfucoo
uuuuuurqbcuVackuGdsaduGyzfc,uziuoesbpz.dguao srdrbzf,udugzftucro unbgg
uuuuuuqdpoumoofuvdxourzndaxcu.godabftuzfoubf.bxofrubfurqbcu.qdbfuzi
uuuuuuvycroabockuBudvu.oardbfgyuxopogz bfturqounbcxzvuziurqoucoa ofr,
uuuuuuizaunqofuVzarbvoau aoccoxuqbcuesocrbzfcurzudfubf.zfpofbofruohrofr
uuuuuuBudcjoxuqbvu.dcsdggyurzunqdrury ouIadfjgdfx’cucjsggumogzftox,udfx
uuuuuuczuqodaxufzrqbftumsru.adfbzgztyuizaurqouaocruziuzsauxabpokuBuqdpo
uuuuuufzrugbpoxuizauyodacunbrquCqoagz.juQzgvocuizaufzrqbftk

uuuuuuBuqdpouzfgyuzfouzrqoaubf.bxofrurzuao.zaxus zfurqbcurov ocrszsc
uuuuuudfxuvogdf.qzgyuxdykuRqbcundcuvyu.zfpoacdrbzfunbrquMdaayvzaouwscr
uuuuuufzn,unqb.qutbpocuvouzfouvzaoucrazftu.daxunqb.quBu.dfu gdyubfuxso
uuuuuurbvok

uuuuuuVzarbvoauqdxucrdyoxurzuxbffoa,udfxuqoudfxurqoumdazforu gdyox
uuuuuué.daréudiroandaxckuRqoumsrgoaumazstqruvouvyu.ziiooubfrzurqo
uuuuuugbmaday,udfxuBurzzjurqou.qdf.ourzudcjuqbvuduionuesocrbzfck

uuuuuu“Nogg,”ucdbxuB,u“qdcurqbcu ao.bzscuaogdrbzfuziuyzsacuxo darox,uza
uuuuuubcuqoucrbggugsajbftuzsruyzfxoa?”

uuuuuu“Buxzf’rujfzn,ucbakuBuqz ourzuqodpofurqdruqouqdcutzfo,uizauqouqdc
uuuuuumazstqrufzrqbftumsrurazsmgouqoao!uB’poufzruqodaxuziuqbvucbf.ouB
uuuuuugoiruzsruizzxuizauqbvugdcr,udfxurqdrundcurqaoouxdycudtzk”

uuuuuu“Xbxuyzsucoouqbvurqof?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ucba,umsrurqouizzxundcutzfounqofufohruBunofrurqdrundyk”

uuuuuu“Rqofuqoundcu.oardbfgyurqoao?”

uuuuuu“Czuyzsunzsgxurqbfj,ucba,usfgoccubrundcurqouzrqoauvdfunqzurzzj
uuuuuubrk”

uuuuuuBucdrunbrquvyu.ziioo-.s uqdgindyurzuvyugb cudfxucrdaoxudr
uuuuuuMdaayvzaok

uuuuuu“Yzsujfznurqdrurqoaoubcudfzrqoauvdfurqof?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucba;urqoaoubcudfzrqoauvdfus zfurqouvzzak”

uuuuuu“Qdpouyzsucoofuqbv?”

uuuuuu“Fz,ucbak”

uuuuuu“Qznuxzuyzsujfznuziuqbvurqof?”

uuuuuu“Cogxofurzgxuvouziuqbv,ucba,udunoojudtzuzauvzaokuQo’cubfuqbxbft,
uuuuuurzz,umsruqo’cufzrudu.zfpb.rudcuidaudcuBu.dfuvdjouzsrkuBuxzf’r
uuuuuugbjoubr,uXakuNdrczf—Burogguyzsucradbtqr,ucba,urqdruBuxzf’rugbjo
uuuuuubrk”uQouc zjounbrquducsxxofu dccbzfuziuodafocrfocck

uuuuuu“Fzn,ugbcrofurzuvo,uMdaayvzao!uBuqdpoufzubfroaocrubfurqbcuvdrroa
uuuuuumsrurqdruziuyzsauvdcroakuBuqdpou.zvouqoaounbrqufzuzmwo.ruoh.o r
uuuuuurzuqog uqbvkuRogguvo,uiadfjgy,unqdrubrubcurqdruyzsuxzf’rugbjok”

uuuuuuMdaayvzaouqocbrdroxuizauduvzvofr,udcubiuqouaotaorroxuqbcuzsrmsacr
uuuuuuzauizsfxubruxbiib.sgrurzuoh aoccuqbcuznfuioogbftcubfunzaxck

uuuuuu“Br’cudggurqocoutzbftc-zf,ucba,”uqou.aboxudrugdcr,undpbftuqbc
uuuuuuqdfxurzndaxcurqouadbf-gdcqoxunbfxznunqb.quid.oxurqouvzzak
uuuuuu“Rqoao’cuizsgu gdyuczvonqoao,udfxurqoao’cumgd.jupbggdbfyumaonbft,
uuuuuurzurqdruB’ggucnoda!uPoayutgdxuBucqzsgxumo,ucba,urzucoouCbauQofay
uuuuuuzfuqbcundyumd.jurzuGzfxzfudtdbf!”

uuuuuu“Msrunqdrubcubrurqdrudgdavcuyzs?”

uuuuuu“GzzjudruCbau.qdagoc’cuxodrq!uRqdrundcumdxuofzstq,uizaudggurqdr
uuuuuurqou.zazfoaucdbxkuGzzjudrurqoufzbcocuzfurqouvzzaudrufbtqrk
uuuuuuRqoao’cufzruduvdfunzsgxu.azccubrudiroaucsfxznfubiuqoundcu dbxuiza
uuuuuubrkuGzzjudrurqbcucradftoauqbxbftuzsruyzfxoa,udfxundr.qbftudfx
uuuuuundbrbft!uNqdr’cuqoundbrbftuiza?uNqdruxzocubruvodf?uBruvodfcufz
uuuuuutzzxurzudfyzfouziurqoufdvouziuMdcjoapbggo,udfxupoayutgdxuBucqdgg
uuuuuumourzumouesbruziubrudgguzfurqouxdyurqdruCbauQofay’cufonucoapdfrc
uuuuuudaouaodxyurzurdjouzpoaurqouQdggk”

uuuuuu“Msrudmzsrurqbcucradftoa,”ucdbxuBku“.dfuyzsurogguvoudfyrqbft
uuuuuudmzsruqbv?uNqdruxbxuCogxofucdy?uXbxuqouibfxuzsrunqoaouqouqbx,uza
uuuuuunqdruqoundcuxzbft?”

uuuuuu“Qoucdnuqbvuzf.ouzaurnb.o,umsruqoubcuduxoo uzfoudfxutbpocufzrqbft
uuuuuudndykuDruibacruqourqzstqrurqdruqoundcurqou zgb.o,umsruczzfuqo
uuuuuuizsfxurqdruqouqdxuczvougdyuziuqbcuznfkuDujbfxuziutofrgovdfuqo
uuuuuundc,udcuidaudcuqou.zsgxucoo,umsrunqdruqoundcuxzbftuqou.zsgxufzr
uuuuuuvdjouzsrk”

uuuuuu“Dfxunqoaouxbxuqoucdyurqdruqougbpox?”

uuuuuu“Dvzfturqouzgxuqzscocuzfurqouqbggcbxo—rqoucrzfouqsrcunqoaourqo
uuuuuuzgxuizgjuscoxurzugbpok”

uuuuuu“Msruqznudmzsruqbcuizzx?”

uuuuuu“Cogxofuizsfxuzsrurqdruqouqdcutzrudugdxunqzunzajcuizauqbvudfx
uuuuuumabftcudgguqoufooxckuBuxdaoucdyuqoutzocurzu.zzvmouRad.oyuizaunqdr
uuuuuuqoundfrck”

uuuuuu“Poayutzzx,uMdaayvzaokuNouvdyurdgjuisarqoauziurqbcuczvouzrqoa
uuuuuurbvok”uNqofurqoumsrgoauqdxutzfouBundgjoxuzpoaurzurqoumgd.j
uuuuuunbfxzn,udfxuBugzzjoxurqazstqudumgsaaoxu dfoudrurqouxabpbftu.gzsxc
uuuuuudfxudrurqourzccbftuzsrgbfouziurqounbfx-cno ruraoockuBrubcudunbgx
uuuuuufbtqrubfxzzac,udfxunqdruvscrubrumoubfuducrzfouqsrus zfurqouvzzak
uuuuuuNqdru dccbzfuziuqdraoxu.dfubrumounqb.qugodxcuduvdfurzugsajubf
uuuuuucs.qudu gd.oudrucs.qudurbvo!uDfxunqdruxoo udfxuodafocru sa zco
uuuuuu.dfuqouqdpounqb.qu.dggcuizaucs.qudurabdg!uRqoao,ubfurqdruqsrus zf
uuuuuurqouvzza,ucoovcurzugbourqoupoayu.ofraouziurqdru azmgovunqb.quqdc
uuuuuupohoxuvouczuczaogykuBucnodaurqdrudfzrqoauxdyucqdggufzruqdpo
uuuuuu dccoxumoizaouBuqdpouxzfoudggurqdruvdfu.dfuxzurzuaod.qurqouqodar
uuuuuuziurqouvycroayk



.qd roau11k

RqouVdfuzfurqouRza

uuuuuuRqouohrad.ruiazvuvyu abpdrouxbdayunqb.quizavcurqougdcru.qd roa
uuuuuuqdcumazstqruvyufdaadrbpous urzurqouobtqroofrquziuZ.rzmoa,udurbvo
uuuuuunqofurqocoucradftouopofrcumotdfurzuvzpoucnbirgyurzndaxcurqoba
uuuuuuroaabmgou.zf.gscbzfkuRqoubf.bxofrcuziurqoufohruionuxdycudao
uuuuuubfxogbmgyutadpofus zfuvyuao.zggo.rbzf,udfxuBu.dfuroggurqov
uuuuuunbrqzsruaoioaof.ourzurqoufzrocuvdxoudrurqourbvokuBucrdarurqov
uuuuuuiazvurqouxdyunqb.qucs..ooxoxurqdrus zfunqb.quBuqdxuocrdmgbcqox
uuuuuurnzuid.rcuziutaodrubv zardf.o,urqouzfourqdruVackuGdsaduGyzfcuzi
uuuuuu.zzvmouRad.oyuqdxunabrrofurzuCbau.qdagocuMdcjoapbggoudfxuvdxoudf
uuuuuud  zbfrvofrunbrquqbvudrurqoupoayu gd.oudfxuqzsaurqdruqouvoruqbc
uuuuuuxodrq,urqouzrqoaurqdrurqougsajbftuvdfus zfurqouvzzaundcurzumo
uuuuuuizsfxudvzfturqoucrzfouqsrcus zfurqouqbggcbxokuNbrqurqocournz
uuuuuuid.rcubfuvyu zccoccbzfuBuiogrurqdruobrqoauvyubfroggbtof.ouzauvy
uuuuuu.zsadtouvscrumouxoib.bofrubiuBu.zsgxufzrurqaznuczvouisarqoaugbtqr
uuuuuus zfurqocouxdaju gd.ock

uuuuuuBuqdxufzuz  zarsfbryurzuroggurqoumdazforunqdruBuqdxugodafoxudmzsr
uuuuuuVackuGyzfcus zfurqouopofbftumoizao,uizauXakuVzarbvoauaovdbfox
uuuuuunbrquqbvudru.daxcusfrbgubrundcupoayugdrokuDrumaodjidcr,uqznopoa,
uuuuuuBubfizavoxuqbvudmzsruvyuxbc.zpoayudfxudcjoxuqbvunqorqoauqounzsgx
uuuuuu.daourzud..zv dfyuvourzu.zzvmouRad.oykuDruibacruqoundcupoayuodtoa
uuuuuurzu.zvo,umsruzfuco.zfxurqzstqrcubrucoovoxurzumzrquziuscurqdrubiuB
uuuuuunofrudgzfourqouaocsgrcuvbtqrumoumorroakuRqouvzaouizavdgunouvdxo
uuuuuurqoupbcbrurqougoccubfizavdrbzfunouvbtqruzmrdbfkuBugoiruCbauQofay
uuuuuumoqbfx,urqoaoizao,ufzrunbrqzsruczvou ab.jbftcuziu.zfc.bof.o,udfx
uuuuuuxazpouziius zfuvyufonuesocrk

uuuuuuNqofuBuaod.qoxu.zzvmouRad.oyuBurzgxu oajbfcurzu srus urqouqzacoc,
uuuuuudfxuBuvdxoubfesbabocuizaurqougdxyunqzvuBuqdxu.zvourzubfroaaztdrok
uuuuuuBuqdxufzuxbiib.sgryubfuibfxbftuqoauazzvc,unqb.qunoaou.ofradgudfx
uuuuuunoggud  zbfroxkuDuvdbxucqznoxuvoubfunbrqzsru.oaovzfy,udfxudcuB
uuuuuuofroaoxurqoucbrrbft-azzvudugdxy,unqzundcucbrrbftumoizaoud
uuuuuuAovbftrzfury onabroa,uc adftus unbrqudu godcdfrucvbgouziunog.zvok
uuuuuuQoauid.ouiogg,uqznopoa,unqofucqoucdnurqdruBundcuducradftoa,udfx
uuuuuucqoucdruxznfudtdbfudfxudcjoxuvourqouzmwo.ruziuvyupbcbrk

uuuuuuRqouibacrubv aoccbzfugoirumyuVackuGyzfcundcuzfouziuohraovo
uuuuuumodsrykuQoauoyocudfxuqdbaunoaouziurqoucdvouab.quqdlogu.zgzsa,udfx
uuuuuuqoau.qoojc,urqzstqu.zfcbxoadmgyuiao.jgox,unoaouigscqoxunbrqurqo
uuuuuuohesbcbroumgzzvuziurqoumasforro,urqouxdbfryu bfjunqb.qugsajcudr
uuuuuurqouqodaruziurqoucsg qsauazcokuDxvbadrbzfundc,uBuao odr,urqo
uuuuuuibacrubv aoccbzfkuMsrurqouco.zfxundcu.abrb.bcvkuRqoaoundc
uuuuuuczvorqbftucsmrgyunazftunbrqurqouid.o,uczvou.zdacofoccuzi
uuuuuuoh aoccbzf,uczvouqdaxfocc,u oaqd c,uziuoyo,uczvougzzcofoccuziugb 
uuuuuunqb.quvdaaoxubrcu oaio.rumodsrykuMsrurqoco,uziu.zsaco,udao
uuuuuudiroarqzstqrckuDrurqouvzvofruBundcucbv gyu.zfc.bzscurqdruBundcubf
uuuuuurqou aocof.ouziudupoayuqdfxczvounzvdf,udfxurqdrucqoundcudcjbftuvo
uuuuuurqouaodczfcuizauvyupbcbrkuBuqdxufzruesbrousfxoacrzzxusfrbgurqdr
uuuuuubfcrdfruqznuxogb.drouvyuvbccbzfundck

uuuuuu“Buqdpourqou godcsao,”ucdbxuB,u“ziujfznbftuyzsauidrqoak”

uuuuuuBrundcudu.gsvcyubfrazxs.rbzf,udfxurqougdxyuvdxouvouioogubrk
uuuuuu“Rqoaoubcufzrqbftubfu.zvvzfumornoofuvyuidrqoaudfxuvo,”ucqoucdbxk
uuuuuu“Buznouqbvufzrqbft,udfxuqbcuiabofxcudaoufzruvbfokuBiubrunoaoufzr
uuuuuuizaurqougdrouCbau.qdagocuMdcjoapbggoudfxuczvouzrqoaujbfxuqodarcuB
uuuuuuvbtqruqdpoucrdapoxuizaudggurqdruvyuidrqoau.daoxk”

uuuuuu“BrundcudmzsrurqougdrouCbau.qdagocuMdcjoapbggourqdruBuqdpou.zvo
uuuuuuqoaourzucoouyzsk”

uuuuuuRqouiao.jgocucrdaroxuzsruzfurqougdxy’cuid.ok

uuuuuu“Nqdru.dfuBurogguyzsudmzsruqbv?”ucqoudcjox,udfxuqoauibftoac
uuuuuu gdyoxufoapzscgyuzpoaurqoucrz cuziuqoaury onabroak

uuuuuu“Yzsujfonuqbv,uxbxuyzsufzr?”

uuuuuu“BuqdpoudgaodxyucdbxurqdruBuznoudutaodruxodgurzuqbcujbfxfocckuBi
uuuuuuBudvudmgourzucs  zaruvycogiubrubcugdatogyuxsourzurqoubfroaocr
uuuuuunqb.quqourzzjubfuvyusfqd  yucbrsdrbzfk”

uuuuuu“Xbxuyzsu.zaaoc zfxunbrquqbv?”

uuuuuuRqougdxyugzzjoxuesb.jgyus unbrqudfudftayutgodvubfuqoauqdloguoyock

uuuuuu“Nqdrubcurqouzmwo.ruziurqocouesocrbzfc?”ucqoudcjoxucqda gyk

uuuuuu“Rqouzmwo.rubcurzudpzbxudu smgb.uc.dfxdgkuBrubcumorroaurqdruB
uuuuuucqzsgxudcjurqovuqoaourqdfurqdrurqouvdrroaucqzsgxu dccuzsrcbxouzsa
uuuuuu.zfrazgk”

uuuuuuCqoundcucbgofrudfxuqoauid.oundcucrbggupoayu dgokuDrugdcrucqo
uuuuuugzzjoxus unbrquczvorqbftuao.jgoccudfxuxoibdfrubfuqoauvdffoak

uuuuuu“Nogg,uB’ggudfcnoa,”ucqoucdbxku“Nqdrudaouyzsauesocrbzfc?”

uuuuuu“Xbxuyzsu.zaaoc zfxunbrquCbau.qdagoc?”

uuuuuu“Bu.oardbfgyunazrourzuqbvuzf.ouzaurnb.ourzud.jfzngoxtouqbc
uuuuuuxogb.d.yudfxuqbcutofoazcbryk”

uuuuuu“Qdpouyzsurqouxdrocuziurqzcougorroac?”

uuuuuu“Fzk”

uuuuuu“Qdpouyzsuopoauvoruqbv?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uzf.ouzaurnb.o,unqofuqou.dvoubfrzu.zzvmouRad.oykuQoundcud
uuuuuupoayuaorbabftuvdf,udfxuqou aoioaaoxurzuxzutzzxumyucrodgrqk”

uuuuuu“Msrubiuyzsucdnuqbvuczucogxzvudfxunazrouczucogxzv,uqznuxbxuqo
uuuuuujfznuofzstqudmzsruyzsaudiidbacurzumoudmgourzuqog uyzs,udcuyzsucdy
uuuuuurqdruqouqdcuxzfo?”

uuuuuuCqouvoruvyuxbiib.sgryunbrqurqousrvzcruaodxbfocck

uuuuuu“Rqoaounoaoucopoadgutofrgovofunqzujfonuvyucdxuqbcrzayudfxusfbrox
uuuuuurzuqog uvokuZfoundcuVakuCrd gorzf,udufobtqmzsaudfxubfrbvdro
uuuuuuiabofxuziuCbau.qdagoc’ckuQoundcuoh.ooxbftgyujbfx,udfxubrundc
uuuuuurqazstquqbvurqdruCbau.qdagocugodafoxudmzsruvyudiidback”

uuuuuuBujfonudgaodxyurqdruCbau.qdagocuMdcjoapbggouqdxuvdxouCrd gorzf
uuuuuuqbcudgvzfoaus zfucopoadguz..dcbzfc,uczurqougdxy’cucrdrovofrumzao
uuuuuurqoubv aoccuziurasrqus zfubrk

uuuuuu“XbxuyzsuopoaunabrourzuCbau.qdagocudcjbftuqbvurzuvooruyzs?”uB
uuuuuu.zfrbfsoxk

uuuuuuVackuGyzfcuigscqoxunbrqudftoaudtdbfku“Aodggy,ucba,urqbcubcudupoay
uuuuuuohradzaxbfdayuesocrbzfk”

uuuuuu“Budvuczaay,uvdxdv,umsruBuvscruao odrubrk”

uuuuuu“RqofuBudfcnoa,u.oardbfgyufzrk”

uuuuuu“FzruzfurqoupoayuxdyuziuCbau.qdagoc’cuxodrq?”

uuuuuuRqouigscquqdxuidxoxubfudfubfcrdfr,udfxuduxodrqgyuid.oundcumoizao
uuuuuuvokuQoauxayugb cu.zsgxufzruc odjurqou“Fz”unqb.quBucdnuadrqoaurqdf
uuuuuuqodaxk

uuuuuu“Csaogyuyzsauvovzayuxo.obpocuyzs,”ucdbxuBku“Bu.zsgxuopofueszroud
uuuuuu dccdtouziuyzsaugorroakuBruadfu‘ godco,u godco,udcuyzsudaoud
uuuuuutofrgovdf,umsafurqbcugorroa,udfxumoudrurqoutdroumyurofuz’.gz.jk’”

uuuuuuBurqzstqrurqdrucqouqdxuidbfrox,umsrucqouao.zpoaoxuqoacogiumyud
uuuuuucs aovouoiizark

uuuuuu“Bcurqoaoufzucs.qurqbftudcudutofrgovdf?”ucqoutdc oxk

uuuuuu“YzsuxzuCbau.qdagocudfubfwscrb.okuQou_xbx_umsafurqougorroakuMsr
uuuuuuczvorbvocudugorroauvdyumougotbmgouopofunqofumsafoxkuYzs
uuuuuud.jfzngoxtoufznurqdruyzsunazroubr?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uBuxbxunabroubr,”ucqou.abox,u zsabftuzsruqoauczsgubfud
uuuuuurzaaofruziunzaxcku“BuxbxunabroubrkuNqyucqzsgxuBuxofyubr?uBuqdpo
uuuuuufzuaodczfurzumoudcqdvoxuziubrkuBunbcqoxuqbvurzuqog uvokuB
uuuuuumogbopoxurqdrubiuBuqdxudfubfroapbonuBu.zsgxutdbfuqbcuqog ,uczuB
uuuuuudcjoxuqbvurzuvooruvok”

uuuuuu“Msrunqyudrucs.qudfuqzsa?”

uuuuuu“Mo.dscouBuqdxuzfgyuwscrugodafoxurqdruqoundcutzbfturzuGzfxzfufohr
uuuuuuxdyudfxuvbtqrumoudndyuizauvzfrqckuRqoaounoaouaodczfcunqyuBu.zsgx
uuuuuufzrutorurqoaouodagboak”

uuuuuu“Msrunqyuduaofxolpzscubfurqoutdaxofubfcrodxuziudupbcbrurzurqo
uuuuuuqzsco?”

uuuuuu“Xzuyzsurqbfjudunzvdfu.zsgxutzudgzfoudrurqdruqzsaurzudumd.qogza’c
uuuuuuqzsco?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,unqdruqd  ofoxunqofuyzsuxbxutorurqoao?”

uuuuuu“Bufopoaunofrk”

uuuuuu“VackuGyzfc!”

uuuuuu“Fz,uBucnodaubrurzuyzsuzfudgguBuqzgxucd.aoxkuBufopoaunofrk
uuuuuuCzvorqbftubfroapofoxurzu aopofruvyutzbftk”

uuuuuu“Nqdrundcurqdr?”

uuuuuu“Rqdrubcudu abpdrouvdrroakuBu.dffzruroggubrk”

uuuuuu“Yzsud.jfzngoxtourqofurqdruyzsuvdxoudfud  zbfrvofrunbrquCba
uuuuuu.qdagocudrurqoupoayuqzsaudfxu gd.oudrunqb.quqouvoruqbcuxodrq,umsr
uuuuuuyzsuxofyurqdruyzsujo rurqoud  zbfrvofrk”

uuuuuu“Rqdrubcurqourasrqk”

uuuuuuDtdbfudfxudtdbfuBu.azcc-esocrbzfoxuqoa,umsruBu.zsgxufopoautor
uuuuuu dcrurqdru zbfrk

uuuuuu“VackuGyzfc,”ucdbxuBudcuBuazcouiazvurqbcugzftudfxubf.zf.gscbpo
uuuuuubfroapbon,u“yzsudaourdjbftudupoayutaodruaoc zfcbmbgbryudfx
uuuuuu srrbftuyzsacogiubfudupoayuidgcou zcbrbzfumyufzruvdjbftudf
uuuuuudmczgsrogyu.godfumaodcruziudggurqdruyzsujfznkuBiuBuqdpourzu.dgg
uuuuuubfurqoudbxuziurqou zgb.ouyzsunbgguibfxuqznucoabzscgyuyzsudao
uuuuuu.zv azvbcoxkuBiuyzsau zcbrbzfubcubffz.ofr,unqyuxbxuyzsubfurqo
uuuuuuibacrubfcrdf.ouxofyuqdpbftunabrrofurzuCbau.qdagocus zfurqdr
uuuuuuxdro?”

uuuuuu“Mo.dscouBuiodaoxurqdruczvouidgcou.zf.gscbzfuvbtqrumouxadnfuiazv
uuuuuubrudfxurqdruBuvbtqruibfxuvycogiubfpzgpoxubfuduc.dfxdgk”

uuuuuu“Dfxunqyunoaouyzsuczu aoccbfturqdruCbau.qdagocucqzsgxuxocrazy
uuuuuuyzsaugorroa?”

uuuuuu“Biuyzsuqdpouaodxurqougorroauyzsunbggujfznk”

uuuuuu“BuxbxufzrucdyurqdruBuqdxuaodxudggurqougorroak”

uuuuuu“Yzsueszroxuczvouziubrk”

uuuuuu“Bueszroxurqou zcrc.ab rkuRqougorroauqdx,udcuBucdbx,umoofumsafox
uuuuuudfxubrundcufzrudggugotbmgokuBudcjuyzsuzf.oudtdbfunqyubrundcurqdr
uuuuuuyzsunoaouczu aoccbfturqdruCbau.qdagocucqzsgxuxocrazyurqbcugorroa
uuuuuunqb.quqouao.obpoxuzfurqouxdyuziuqbcuxodrqk”

uuuuuu“Rqouvdrroaubcudupoayu abpdrouzfok”

uuuuuu“Rqouvzaouaodczfunqyuyzsucqzsgxudpzbxudu smgb.ubfpocrbtdrbzfk”

uuuuuu“Bunbggurogguyzs,urqofkuBiuyzsuqdpouqodaxudfyrqbftuziuvyusfqd  y
uuuuuuqbcrzayuyzsunbggujfznurqdruBuvdxouduadcquvdaabdtoudfxuqdxuaodczf
uuuuuurzuaotaorubrk”

uuuuuu“Buqdpouqodaxuczuvs.qk”

uuuuuu“Vyugbiouqdcumoofuzfoubf.occdfru oaco.srbzfuiazvuduqscmdfxunqzvuB
uuuuuudmqzakuRqougdnubcus zfuqbcucbxo,udfxuopoayuxdyuBudvuid.oxumyurqo
uuuuuu zccbmbgbryurqdruqouvdyuiza.ouvourzugbpounbrquqbvkuDrurqourbvo
uuuuuurqdruBunazrourqbcugorroaurzuCbau.qdagocuBuqdxugodafoxurqdrurqoao
uuuuuundcudu azc o.ruziuvyuaotdbfbftuvyuiaooxzvubiu.oardbfuoh ofcoc
uuuuuu.zsgxumouvorkuBruvodfruopoayrqbfturzuvo— od.ouziuvbfx,uqd  bfocc,
uuuuuucogi-aoc o.r—opoayrqbftkuBujfonuCbau.qdagoc’cutofoazcbry,udfxuB
uuuuuurqzstqrurqdrubiuqouqodaxurqoucrzayuiazvuvyuznfugb cuqounzsgxuqog 
uuuuuuvok”

uuuuuu“Rqofuqznubcubrurqdruyzsuxbxufzrutz?”

uuuuuu“Mo.dscouBuao.obpoxuqog ubfurqoubfroapdguiazvudfzrqoauczsa.ok”

uuuuuu“Nqyurqof,uxbxuyzsufzrunabrourzuCbau.qdagocudfxuoh gdbfurqbc?”

uuuuuu“CzuBucqzsgxuqdpouxzfouqdxuBufzrucoofuqbcuxodrqubfurqou d oaufohr
uuuuuuvzafbftk”

uuuuuuRqounzvdf’cucrzayuqsftu.zqoaofrgyurztorqoa,udfxudgguvyuesocrbzfc
uuuuuunoaousfdmgourzucqdjoubrkuBu.zsgxuzfgyu.qo.jubrumyuibfxbftubiucqo
uuuuuuqdx,ubfxoox,ubfcrbrsroxuxbpza.ou az.ooxbftcudtdbfcruqoauqscmdfx
uuuuuudruzaudmzsrurqourbvouziurqouradtoxyk

uuuuuuBrundcusfgbjogyurqdrucqounzsgxuxdaourzucdyurqdrucqouqdxufzrumoof
uuuuuurzuMdcjoapbggouQdggubiucqouaodggyuqdxumoof,uizaudurad unzsgxumo
uuuuuufo.occdayurzurdjouqoaurqoao,udfxu.zsgxufzruqdpouaorsafoxurz
uuuuuu.zzvmouRad.oyusfrbgurqouodagyuqzsacuziurqouvzafbftkuCs.qudf
uuuuuuoh.sacbzfu.zsgxufzrumoujo ruco.aorkuRqou azmdmbgbryundc,
uuuuuurqoaoizao,urqdrucqoundcuroggbfturqourasrq,uza,udrugodcr,udu dar
uuuuuuziurqourasrqkuBu.dvoudndyumdiigoxudfxuxbcqodarofoxkuZf.oudtdbfuB
uuuuuuqdxuaod.qoxurqdruxodxundggunqb.qucoovoxurzumoumsbgrud.azccuopoay
uuuuuu drqumyunqb.quBuraboxurzutorudrurqouzmwo.ruziuvyuvbccbzfkuDfxuyor
uuuuuurqouvzaouBurqzstqruziurqougdxy’cuid.oudfxuziuqoauvdffoaurqouvzao
uuuuuuBuiogrurqdruczvorqbftundcumobftuqogxumd.juiazvuvokuNqyucqzsgxucqo
uuuuuursafuczu dgo?uNqyucqzsgxucqouibtqrudtdbfcruopoayudxvbccbzfusfrbg
uuuuuubrundcuiza.oxuiazvuqoa?uNqyucqzsgxucqouqdpoumoofuczuaorb.ofrudr
uuuuuurqourbvouziurqouradtoxy?uCsaogyurqouoh gdfdrbzfuziudggurqbcu.zsgx
uuuuuufzrumoudcubffz.ofrudcucqounzsgxuqdpouvoumogbopokuIzaurqouvzvofruB
uuuuuu.zsgxu az.ooxufzuidarqoaubfurqdruxbao.rbzf,umsruvscrursafumd.jurz
uuuuuurqdruzrqoau.gsounqb.qundcurzumouczstqruizaudvzfturqoucrzfouqsrc
uuuuuus zfurqouvzzak

uuuuuuDfxurqdrundcuduvzcrupdtsouxbao.rbzfkuBuaodgbcoxubrudcuBuxazpo
uuuuuumd.judfxufzroxuqznuqbggudiroauqbggucqznoxurad.ocuziurqoudf.bofr
uuuuuu oz gokuMdaayvzao’cuzfgyubfxb.drbzfuqdxumoofurqdrurqoucradftoa
uuuuuugbpoxubfuzfouziurqocoudmdfxzfoxuqsrc,udfxuvdfyuqsfxaoxcuziurqov
uuuuuudaouc.drroaoxurqazstqzsrurqougoftrqudfxumaodxrquziurqouvzzakuMsr
uuuuuuBuqdxuvyuznfuoh oabof.ouizaudutsbxoucbf.oubruqdxucqznfuvourqouvdf
uuuuuuqbvcogiucrdfxbftus zfurqoucsvvbruziurqouMgd.juRzakuRqdr,urqof,
uuuuuucqzsgxumourqou.ofraouziuvyucoda.qkuIazvurqoaouBucqzsgxuoh gzao
uuuuuuopoayuqsrus zfurqouvzzausfrbguBugbtqroxus zfurqouabtqruzfokuBi
uuuuuurqbcuvdfunoaoubfcbxoubruBucqzsgxuibfxuzsruiazvuqbcuznfugb c,udr
uuuuuurqou zbfruziuvyuaopzgpoaubiufo.occday,unqzuqoundcudfxunqyuqouqdx
uuuuuuxzttoxuscuczugzftkuQouvbtqrucgb udndyuiazvuscubfurqou.aznxuzi
uuuuuuAotofruCraoor,umsrubrunzsgxu sllgouqbvurzuxzuczus zfurqougzfogy
uuuuuuvzzakuZfurqouzrqoauqdfx,ubiuBucqzsgxuibfxurqouqsrudfxubrcurofdfr
uuuuuucqzsgxufzrumounbrqbfubruBuvscruaovdbfurqoao,uqznopoaugzfturqo
uuuuuupbtbg,usfrbguqouaorsafoxkuQzgvocuqdxuvbccoxuqbvubfuGzfxzfkuBr
uuuuuunzsgxubfxooxumoudurabsv quizauvoubiuBu.zsgxuasfuqbvurzuodarq
uuuuuunqoaouvyuvdcroauqdxuidbgoxk

uuuuuuGs.juqdxumoofudtdbfcruscudtdbfudfxudtdbfubfurqbcubfesbay,umsrufzn
uuuuuudrugdcrubru.dvourzuvyudbxkuDfxurqouvoccoftoauziutzzxuizarsfoundc
uuuuuufzfouzrqoaurqdfuVakuIadfjgdfx,unqzundcucrdfxbft,utaoy-nqbcjoaox
uuuuuudfxuaox-id.ox,uzsrcbxourqoutdrouziuqbcutdaxof,unqb.quz ofoxuzfurz
uuuuuurqouqbtqazdxudgzftunqb.quBuradpoggoxk

uuuuuu“Tzzx-xdy,uXakuNdrczf,”u.aboxuqounbrqusfnzfroxutzzxuqsvzsa,u“yzs
uuuuuuvscruaodggyutbpouyzsauqzacocuduaocrudfxu.zvoubfurzuqdpoudutgdcc
uuuuuuziunbfoudfxurzu.zftadrsgdrouvok”

uuuuuuVyuioogbftcurzndaxcuqbvunoaoupoayuidauiazvumobftuiabofxgyudiroa
uuuuuunqdruBuqdxuqodaxuziuqbcuraodrvofruziuqbcuxdstqroa,umsruBundc
uuuuuudfhbzscurzucofxu oajbfcudfxurqoundtzforrouqzvo,udfxurqo
uuuuuuz  zarsfbryundcudutzzxuzfokuBudgbtqroxudfxucofruduvoccdtourzuCba
uuuuuuQofayurqdruBucqzsgxundgjuzpoaubfurbvouizauxbffoakuRqofuBuizggznox
uuuuuuIadfjgdfxubfrzuqbcuxbfbft-azzvk

uuuuuu“Brubcudutaodruxdyuizauvo,ucba—zfouziurqouaox-gorroauxdycuziuvy
uuuuuugbio,”uqou.aboxunbrquvdfyu.qs.jgocku“Buqdpoumazstqruziiuduxzsmgo
uuuuuuopofrkuBuvodfurzurod.qurqovubfurqocou darcurqdrugdnubcugdn,udfx
uuuuuurqdrurqoaoubcuduvdfuqoaounqzuxzocufzruiodaurzubfpzjoubrkuBuqdpo
uuuuuuocrdmgbcqoxuduabtqruziundyurqazstqurqou.ofraouziuzgxuVbxxgorzf’c
uuuuuu daj,ucgd ud.azccubr,ucba,unbrqbfuduqsfxaoxuydaxcuziuqbcuznf
uuuuuuiazfruxzzakuNqdruxzuyzsurqbfjuziurqdr?uNo’ggurod.qurqocouvdtfdroc
uuuuuurqdrurqoyu.dffzruabxouazstqcqzxuzpoaurqouabtqrcuziurqou.zvvzfoac,
uuuuuu.zfizsfxurqov!uDfxuB’pou.gzcoxurqounzzxunqoaourqouIoafnzarqyuizgj
uuuuuuscoxurzu b.fb.kuRqocoubfioafdgu oz goucoovurzurqbfjurqdrurqoao
uuuuuudaoufzuabtqrcuziu az oary,udfxurqdrurqoyu.dfucndavunqoaourqoy
uuuuuugbjounbrqurqobau d oacudfxurqobaumzrrgockuMzrqu.dcocuxo.bxox,uXak
uuuuuuNdrczf,udfxumzrqubfuvyuidpzsakuBuqdpof’ruqdxucs.quduxdyucbf.ouB
uuuuuuqdxuCbauWzqfuVzagdfxuizauraoc dccumo.dscouqoucqzrubfuqbcuznf
uuuuuundaaofk”

uuuuuu“Qznuzfuodarquxbxuyzsuxzurqdr?”

uuuuuu“Gzzjubrus ubfurqoumzzjc,ucbakuBrunbgguao dyuaodxbft—Iadfjgdfx
uuuuuu_p_kuVzagdfx,u.zsaruziuEsoof’cuMof.qkuBru.zcruvou£200,umsruButzr
uuuuuuvyupoaxb.rk”

uuuuuu“Xbxubruxzuyzsudfyutzzx?”

uuuuuu“Fzfo,ucba,ufzfokuBudvu azsxurzucdyurqdruBuqdxufzubfroaocrubfurqo
uuuuuuvdrroakuBud.ruofrbaogyuiazvuducofcouziu smgb.uxsrykuBuqdpoufz
uuuuuuxzsmr,uizauohdv go,urqdrurqouIoafnzarqyu oz gounbggumsafuvoubf
uuuuuuoiibtyurzfbtqrkuBurzgxurqou zgb.ougdcrurbvourqoyuxbxubrurqdrurqoy
uuuuuucqzsgxucrz urqocouxbctad.oisguohqbmbrbzfckuRqou.zsfry
uuuuuu.zfcrdmsgdayubcubfuduc.dfxdgzscucrdro,ucba,udfxubruqdcufzr
uuuuuudiizaxoxuvourqou azro.rbzfurzunqb.quBudvuofrbrgoxkuRqou.dcouzi
uuuuuuIadfjgdfxu_p_kuAotbfdunbggumabfturqouvdrroaumoizaourqoudrrofrbzf
uuuuuuziurqou smgb.kuBurzgxurqovurqdrurqoyunzsgxuqdpouz..dcbzfurz
uuuuuuaotaorurqobauraodrvofruziuvo,udfxudgaodxyuvyunzaxcuqdpou.zvo
uuuuuurasok”

uuuuuu“Qznucz?”uBudcjoxk

uuuuuuRqouzgxuvdfu sruzfudupoayujfznbftuoh aoccbzfku“Mo.dscouBu.zsgx
uuuuuuroggurqovunqdrurqoyudaouxybfturzujfzn;umsrufzrqbftunzsgxubfxs.o
uuuuuuvourzuqog urqouadc.dgcubfudfyundyk”

uuuuuuBuqdxumoofu.dcrbftuazsfxuizauczvouoh.scoumyunqb.quBu.zsgxutor
uuuuuudndyuiazvuqbcutzccb ,umsrufznuBumotdfurzunbcqurzuqodauvzaouziubrk
uuuuuuBuqdxucoofuofzstquziurqou.zfradayufdrsaouziurqouzgxucbffoaurz
uuuuuusfxoacrdfxurqdrudfyucrazftucbtfuziubfroaocrunzsgxumourqoucsaocr
uuuuuundyurzucrz uqbcu.zfibxof.ock

uuuuuu“Czvou zd.qbftu.dco,ufzuxzsmr?”ucdbxuBunbrqudfubfxbiioaofr
uuuuuuvdffoak

uuuuuu“Qd,uqd,uvyumzy,udupoayuvs.quvzaoubv zardfruvdrroaurqdfurqdr!
uuuuuuNqdrudmzsrurqou.zfpb.ruzfurqouvzza?”

uuuuuuBucrdaoxku“Yzsuxzf’ruvodfurqdruyzsujfznunqoaouqoubc?”ucdbxuBk

uuuuuu“Buvdyufzrujfznuohd.rgyunqoaouqoubc,umsruBudvuesbroucsaourqdruB
uuuuuu.zsgxuqog urqou zgb.ourzugdyurqobauqdfxcuzfuqbvkuQdcubrufopoa
uuuuuucras.juyzsurqdrurqoundyurzu.dr.qurqdruvdfundcurzuibfxuzsrunqoao
uuuuuuqoutzruqbcuizzxudfxuczurad.oubrurzuqbv?”

uuuuuuQou.oardbfgyucoovoxurzumoutorrbftusf.zvizardmgyufodaurqourasrqk
uuuuuu“Fzuxzsmr,”ucdbxuB;u“msruqznuxzuyzsujfznurqdruqoubcudfynqoaous zf
uuuuuurqouvzza?”

uuuuuu“Bujfznubrumo.dscouBuqdpoucoofunbrquvyuznfuoyocurqouvoccoftoaunqz
uuuuuurdjocuqbvuqbcuizzxk”

uuuuuuVyuqodarucdfjuizauMdaayvzaokuBrundcuducoabzscurqbfturzumoubfurqo
uuuuuu znoauziurqbcuc broisguzgxumscymzxykuMsruqbcufohruaovdajurzzjud
uuuuuunobtqruiazvuvyuvbfxk

uuuuuu“Yzs’ggumoucsa abcoxurzuqodaurqdruqbcuizzxubcurdjofurzuqbvumyud
uuuuuu.qbgxkuBucoouqbvuopoayuxdyurqazstquvyurogoc.z ous zfurqouazzikuQo
uuuuuu dccocudgzfturqoucdvou drqudrurqoucdvouqzsa,udfxurzunqzvucqzsgx
uuuuuuqoumoutzbftuoh.o rurzurqou.zfpb.r?”

uuuuuuQoaoundcugs.jubfxoox!uDfxuyoruBucs  aoccoxudggud  odadf.ouzi
uuuuuubfroaocrkuDu.qbgx!uMdaayvzaouqdxucdbxurqdruzsausfjfznfundc
uuuuuucs  gboxumyudumzykuBrundcuzfuqbcurad.j,udfxufzrus zfurqo
uuuuuu.zfpb.r’c,urqdruIadfjgdfxuqdxucrsvmgoxkuBiuBu.zsgxutoruqbc
uuuuuujfzngoxtoubruvbtqrucdpouvoudugzftudfxunodayuqsfrkuMsrubf.aoxsgbry
uuuuuudfxubfxbiioaof.ounoaouopbxofrgyuvyucrazftocru.daxck

uuuuuu“Bucqzsgxucdyurqdrubrundcuvs.quvzaougbjogyurqdrubrundcurqouczfuzi
uuuuuuzfouziurqouvzzagdfxucqo qoaxcurdjbftuzsruqbcuidrqoa’cuxbffoak”

uuuuuuRqougodcrud  odadf.ouziuz  zcbrbzfucras.juibaouzsruziurqouzgx
uuuuuudsrz.adrkuQbcuoyocugzzjoxuvdgbtfdfrgyudruvo,udfxuqbcutaoy
uuuuuunqbcjoacumabcrgoxugbjourqzcouziudfudftayu.drk

uuuuuu“Bfxoox,ucba!”ucdbxuqo,u zbfrbftuzsruzpoaurqounbxo-craor.qbft
uuuuuuvzzaku“XzuyzsucoourqdruMgd.juRzauzpoauyzfxoa?uNogg,uxzuyzsucoo
uuuuuurqougznuqbggumoyzfxunbrqurqourqzafmscqus zfubr?uBrubcurqo
uuuuuucrzfbocru daruziurqounqzgouvzzakuBcurqdrudu gd.ounqoaouducqo qoax
uuuuuunzsgxumougbjogyurzurdjouqbcucrdrbzf?uYzsaucsttocrbzf,ucba,ubcud
uuuuuuvzcrudmcsaxuzfok”

uuuuuuBuvoojgyudfcnoaoxurqdruBuqdxuc zjofunbrqzsrujfznbftudggurqo
uuuuuuid.rckuVyucsmvbccbzfu godcoxuqbvudfxugoxuqbvurzuisarqoa
uuuuuu.zfibxof.ock

uuuuuu“Yzsuvdyumoucsao,ucba,urqdruBuqdpoupoayutzzxutazsfxcumoizaouB
uuuuuu.zvourzudfuz bfbzfkuBuqdpoucoofurqoumzyudtdbfudfxudtdbfunbrquqbc
uuuuuumsfxgokuOpoayuxdy,udfxuczvorbvocurnb.ouduxdy,uBuqdpoumoof
uuuuuudmgo—msrundbruduvzvofr,uXakuNdrczfkuXzuvyuoyocuxo.obpouvo,uzaubc
uuuuuurqoaoudrurqou aocofruvzvofruczvorqbftuvzpbftus zfurqdruqbggcbxo?”

uuuuuuBrundcucopoadguvbgocuzii,umsruBu.zsgxuxbcrbf.rgyucoouducvdgguxdaj
uuuuuuxzrudtdbfcrurqouxsggutaoofudfxutaoyk

uuuuuu“.zvo,ucba,u.zvo!”u.aboxuIadfjgdfx,uascqbftus crdbacku“Yzsunbgg
uuuuuucoounbrquyzsauznfuoyocudfxuwsxtouizauyzsacogik”

uuuuuuRqourogoc.z o,uduizavbxdmgoubfcrasvofruvzsfroxus zfudurab zx,
uuuuuucrzzxus zfurqouigdrugodxcuziurqouqzscokuIadfjgdfxu.gd  oxuqbcuoyo
uuuuuurzubrudfxutdpoudu.ayuziucdrbcid.rbzfk

uuuuuu“Esb.j,uXakuNdrczf,uesb.j,umoizaouqou dccocuzpoaurqouqbgg!”

uuuuuuRqoaouqoundc,ucsaouofzstq,uducvdggusa.qbfunbrqudugbrrgoumsfxgo
uuuuuus zfuqbcucqzsgxoa,urzbgbftucgzngyus urqouqbggkuNqofuqouaod.qox
uuuuuurqou.aocruBucdnurqouadttoxusf.zsrquibtsaouzsrgbfoxuizaudfubfcrdfr
uuuuuudtdbfcrurqou.zgxumgsoucjykuQougzzjoxuazsfxuqbvunbrquduisarbpoudfx
uuuuuucrodgrqyudba,udcuzfounqzuxaodxcu sacsbrkuRqofuqoupdfbcqoxuzpoa
uuuuuurqouqbggk

uuuuuu“Nogg!uDvuBuabtqr?”

uuuuuu“.oardbfgy,urqoaoubcudumzyunqzucoovcurzuqdpouczvouco.aoruoaadfxk”

uuuuuu“Dfxunqdrurqouoaadfxubcuopofudu.zsfryu.zfcrdmgou.zsgxutsocckuMsr
uuuuuufzruzfounzaxucqdggurqoyuqdpouiazvuvo,udfxuBumbfxuyzsurzuco.ao.y
uuuuuudgcz,uXakuNdrczfkuFzrudunzax!uYzsusfxoacrdfx!”

uuuuuu“Wscrudcuyzsunbcqk”

uuuuuu“Rqoyuqdpouraodroxuvoucqdvoisggy—cqdvoisggykuNqofurqouid.rcu.zvo
uuuuuuzsrubfuIadfjgdfxu_p_kuAotbfduBupofrsaourzurqbfjurqdrudurqabgguzi
uuuuuubfxbtfdrbzfunbgguasfurqazstqurqou.zsfraykuFzrqbftunzsgxubfxs.ouvo
uuuuuurzuqog urqou zgb.oubfudfyundykuIzaudggurqoyu.daoxubruvbtqruqdpo
uuuuuumoofuvo,ubfcrodxuziuvyuoiibty,unqb.qurqocouadc.dgcumsafoxudrurqo
uuuuuucrdjokuCsaogyuyzsudaoufzrutzbft!uYzsunbgguqog uvourzuov ryurqo
uuuuuuxo.dfroaubfuqzfzsauziurqbcutaodruz..dcbzf!”

uuuuuuMsruBuaocbcroxudgguqbcuczgb.brdrbzfcudfxucs..ooxoxubfuxbccsdxbft
uuuuuuqbvuiazvuqbcudffzsf.oxubfrofrbzfuziundgjbftuqzvounbrquvokuBujo r
uuuuuurqouazdxudcugzftudcuqbcuoyoundcuzfuvo,udfxurqofuBucras.juzii
uuuuuud.azccurqouvzzaudfxuvdxouizaurqoucrzfyuqbgguzpoaunqb.qurqoumzy
uuuuuuqdxuxbcd  odaoxkuOpoayrqbftundcunzajbftubfuvyuidpzsa,udfxuBucnzao
uuuuuurqdrubrucqzsgxufzrumourqazstqugd.juziuofoatyuzau oacopoadf.ourqdr
uuuuuuBucqzsgxuvbccurqou.qdf.ounqb.quizarsfouqdxurqaznfubfuvyundyk

uuuuuuRqoucsfundcudgaodxyucbfjbftunqofuBuaod.qoxurqoucsvvbruziurqo
uuuuuuqbgg,udfxurqougzftucgz ocumofodrquvounoaoudggutzgxof-taoofuzfuzfo
uuuuuucbxoudfxutaoyucqdxznuzfurqouzrqoakuDuqdlougdyugznus zfurqo
uuuuuuidarqocrucjy-gbfo,uzsruziunqb.quwsrroxurqouidfrdcrb.ucqd ocuzi
uuuuuuMoggbpoaudfxuPbhofuRzakuZpoaurqounbxouoh dfcourqoaoundcufzuczsfx
uuuuuudfxufzuvzpovofrkuZfoutaodrutaoyumbax,udutsgguzau.sagon,uczdaox
uuuuuudgzirubfurqoumgsouqodpofkuQoudfxuBucoovoxurzumourqouzfgyugbpbft
uuuuuurqbftcumornoofurqouqstouda.quziurqoucjyudfxurqouxocoarumofodrq
uuuuuubrkuRqoumdaaofuc.ofo,urqoucofcouziugzfogbfocc,udfxurqouvycroay
uuuuuudfxusatof.yuziuvyurdcjudggucras.judu.qbggubfrzuvyuqodarkuRqoumzy
uuuuuundcufznqoaourzumoucoofkuMsruxznfumofodrquvoubfudu.goiruziurqo
uuuuuuqbggcurqoaoundcudu.ba.gouziurqouzgxucrzfouqsrc,udfxubfurqouvbxxgo
uuuuuuziurqovurqoaoundcuzfounqb.quaordbfoxucsiib.bofruazziurzud.rudcud
uuuuuuc.aoofudtdbfcrurqounodrqoakuVyuqodarugod oxunbrqbfuvoudcuBucdn
uuuuuubrkuRqbcuvscrumourqoumsaaznunqoaourqoucradftoaugsajoxkuDrugdcruvy
uuuuuuizzrundcuzfurqourqaocqzgxuziuqbcuqbxbftu gd.o—qbcuco.aorundc
uuuuuunbrqbfuvyutadc k

uuuuuuDcuBud  azd.qoxurqouqsr,undgjbftudcundabgyudcuCrd gorzfunzsgxuxz
uuuuuunqofunbrqu zbcoxuforuqouxaonufodaurqoucorrgoxumsrroaigy,uB
uuuuuucdrbciboxuvycogiurqdrurqou gd.ouqdxubfxooxumoofuscoxudcud
uuuuuuqdmbrdrbzfkuDupdtsou drqndyudvzfturqoumzsgxoacugoxurzurqo
uuuuuuxbgd bxdroxuz ofbftunqb.qucoapoxudcuduxzzakuDggundcucbgofr
uuuuuunbrqbfkuRqousfjfznfuvbtqrumougsajbfturqoao,uzauqouvbtqrumo
uuuuuu azngbftuzfurqouvzzakuVyufoapocurbftgoxunbrqurqoucofcouzi
uuuuuudxpofrsaokuRqaznbftudcbxouvyu.btdaorro,uBu.gzcoxuvyuqdfxus zfurqo
uuuuuumsrruziuvyuaopzgpoaudfx,undgjbftucnbirgyus urzurqouxzza,uBugzzjox
uuuuuubfkuRqou gd.oundcuov ryk

uuuuuuMsrurqoaounoaoudv goucbtfcurqdruBuqdxufzru.zvous zfuduidgco
uuuuuuc.ofrkuRqbcundcu.oardbfgyunqoaourqouvdfugbpoxkuCzvoumgdfjorc
uuuuuuazggoxubfudundroa azziugdyus zfurqdrupoayucrzfoucgdmus zfunqb.q
uuuuuuFozgbrqb.uvdfuqdxuzf.oucgsvmoaoxkuRqoudcqocuziuduibaounoaouqod ox
uuuuuubfuduasxoutadrokuMocbxoubrugdyuczvou.zzjbftusrofcbgcudfxudums.jor
uuuuuuqdgi-isgguziundroakuDugbrroauziuov ryurbfcucqznoxurqdrurqou gd.o
uuuuuuqdxumoofuz..s boxuizauczvourbvo,udfxuBucdn,udcuvyuoyocumo.dvo
uuuuuud..scrzvoxurzurqou.qo.joaoxugbtqr,udu dffbjbfudfxuduqdgi-isgg
uuuuuumzrrgouziuc babrcucrdfxbftubfurqou.zafoakuBfurqouvbxxgouziurqo
uuuuuuqsruduigdrucrzfoucoapoxurqou sa zcouziudurdmgo,udfxus zfurqbc
uuuuuucrzzxuducvdggu.gzrqumsfxgo—rqoucdvo,ufzuxzsmr,unqb.quBuqdxucoof
uuuuuurqazstqurqourogoc.z ous zfurqoucqzsgxoauziurqoumzykuBru.zfrdbfox
uuuuuudugzdiuziumaodx,udurbffoxurzftso,udfxurnzurbfcuziu aocoapox
uuuuuu od.qockuDcuBucorubruxznfudtdbf,udiroauqdpbftuohdvbfoxubr,uvy
uuuuuuqodarugod oxurzucoourqdrumofodrqubrurqoaougdyuducqooruziu d oa
uuuuuunbrqunabrbftus zfubrkuBuadbcoxubr,udfxurqbcundcunqdruBuaodx,
uuuuuuazstqgyuc.adngoxubfu of.bg:u“XakuNdrczfuqdcutzfourzu.zzvmo
uuuuuuRad.oyk”

uuuuuuIzauduvbfsrouBucrzzxurqoaounbrqurqou d oaubfuvyuqdfxcurqbfjbft
uuuuuuzsrurqouvodfbftuziurqbcu.saruvoccdtokuBrundcuB,urqof,udfxufzruCba
uuuuuuQofay,unqzundcumobftuxzttoxumyurqbcuco.aoruvdfkuQouqdxufzr
uuuuuuizggznoxuvouqbvcogi,umsruqouqdxucorudfudtofr—rqoumzy,
uuuuuu oaqd c—s zfuvyurad.j,udfxurqbcundcuqbcuao zarku zccbmgyuBuqdx
uuuuuurdjofufzucro ucbf.ouBuqdxumoofus zfurqouvzzaunqb.quqdxufzrumoof
uuuuuuzmcoapoxudfxuao zaroxkuDgndycurqoaoundcurqbcuioogbftuziudfusfcoof
uuuuuuiza.o,uduibfouforuxadnfuazsfxuscunbrqubfibfbroucjbggudfx
uuuuuuxogb.d.y,uqzgxbftuscuczugbtqrgyurqdrubrundcuzfgyudruczvoucs aovo
uuuuuuvzvofrurqdruzfouaodgbcoxurqdruzfoundcubfxooxuofrdftgoxubfubrc
uuuuuuvocqock

uuuuuuBiurqoaoundcuzfouao zarurqoaouvbtqrumouzrqoac,uczuBugzzjoxuazsfx
uuuuuurqouqsrubfucoda.quziurqovkuRqoaoundcufzurad.o,uqznopoa,uzi
uuuuuudfyrqbftuziurqoujbfx,ufzau.zsgxuBuxbc.zpoaudfyucbtfunqb.quvbtqr
uuuuuubfxb.drourqou.qdad.roauzaubfrofrbzfcuziurqouvdfunqzugbpoxubfurqbc
uuuuuucbftsgdau gd.o,ucdpourqdruqouvscrumouziuC dardfuqdmbrcudfxu.daox
uuuuuugbrrgouizaurqou.zvizarcuziugbiokuNqofuBurqzstqruziurqouqodpy
uuuuuuadbfcudfxugzzjoxudrurqoutd bftuazziuBusfxoacrzzxuqznucrazftudfx
uuuuuubvvsrdmgouvscrumourqou sa zcounqb.quqdxujo ruqbvubfurqdr
uuuuuubfqzc brdmgoudmzxokuNdcuqouzsauvdgbtfdfruofovy,uzaundcuqoumy
uuuuuu.qdf.ouzsautsdaxbdfudftog?uBucnzaourqdruBunzsgxufzrugodpourqouqsr
uuuuuusfrbguBujfonk

uuuuuuZsrcbxourqoucsfundcucbfjbftugznudfxurqounocrundcumgdlbftunbrq
uuuuuuc.dagorudfxutzgxkuBrcuaoigo.rbzfundcucqzrumd.jubfuasxxyu dr.qoc
uuuuuumyurqouxbcrdfru zzgcunqb.qugdyudvbxurqoutaodruTabv ofuVbaokuRqoao
uuuuuunoaourqournzurznoacuziuMdcjoapbggouQdgg,udfxurqoaouduxbcrdfrumgsa
uuuuuuziucvzjounqb.quvdajoxurqoupbggdtouziuTabv ofkuMornoofurqournz,
uuuuuumoqbfxurqouqbgg,undcurqouqzscouziurqouCrd gorzfckuDggundcucnoor
uuuuuudfxuvoggznudfxu od.oisgubfurqoutzgxofuopofbftugbtqr,udfxuyorudcuB
uuuuuugzzjoxudrurqovuvyuczsgucqdaoxufzfouziurqou od.ouziuFdrsaoumsr
uuuuuuesbpoaoxudrurqoupdtsofoccudfxurqouroaazauziurqdrubfroapbonunqb.q
uuuuuuopoayubfcrdfrundcumabftbftufodaoakuNbrqurbftgbftufoapocumsrud
uuuuuuibhoxu sa zco,uBucdrubfurqouxdajuao.occuziurqouqsrudfxundbrox
uuuuuunbrquczvmaou drbof.ouizaurqou.zvbftuziubrcurofdfrk

uuuuuuDfxurqofudrugdcruBuqodaxuqbvkuIdaudndyu.dvourqoucqda u.gbfjuziud
uuuuuumzzrucrabjbftus zfuducrzfokuRqofudfzrqoaudfxuyorudfzrqoa,u.zvbft
uuuuuufodaoaudfxufodaoakuBucqadfjumd.jubfrzurqouxdajocru.zafoaudfx
uuuuuu.z.joxurqou bcrzgubfuvyu z.jor,uxoroavbfoxufzrurzuxbc.zpoauvycogi
uuuuuusfrbguBuqdxudfuz  zarsfbryuziucoobftuczvorqbftuziurqoucradftoak
uuuuuuRqoaoundcudugzftu dscounqb.qucqznoxurqdruqouqdxucrz  oxkuRqof
uuuuuuzf.ouvzaourqouizzrcro cud  azd.qoxudfxuducqdxznuioggud.azccurqo
uuuuuuz ofbftuziurqouqsrk

uuuuuu“Brubcudugzpogyuopofbft,uvyuxodauNdrczf,”ucdbxudunogg-jfznf
uuuuuupzb.oku“Buaodggyurqbfjurqdruyzsunbggumouvzaou.zvizardmgouzsrcbxo
uuuuuurqdfubfk”



.qd roau12k

XodrquzfurqouVzza

uuuuuuIzauduvzvofruzaurnzuBucdrumaodrqgocc,uqdaxgyudmgourzumogbopouvy
uuuuuuodackuRqofuvyucofcocudfxuvyupzb.ou.dvoumd.jurzuvo,unqbgoud
uuuuuu.ascqbftunobtqruziuaoc zfcbmbgbryucoovoxubfudfubfcrdfrurzumo
uuuuuugbiroxuiazvuvyuczsgkuRqdru.zgx,ubf.bcbpo,ubazfb.dgupzb.ou.zsgx
uuuuuumogzfturzumsruzfouvdfubfudggurqounzagxk

uuuuuu“Qzgvoc!”uBu.abox—“Qzgvoc!”

uuuuuu“.zvouzsr,”ucdbxuqo,u“dfxu godcoumou.daoisgunbrqurqouaopzgpoak”

uuuuuuBucrzz oxusfxoaurqouasxougbfrog,udfxurqoaouqoucdrus zfuducrzfo
uuuuuuzsrcbxo,uqbcutaoyuoyocuxdf.bftunbrqudvscovofrudcurqoyuioggus zf
uuuuuuvyudcrzfbcqoxuiodrsaockuQoundcurqbfudfxunzaf,umsru.godaudfx
uuuuuudgoar,uqbcujoofuid.oumazfloxumyurqoucsfudfxuazstqofoxumyurqo
uuuuuunbfxkuBfuqbcurnooxucsbrudfxu.gzrqu.d uqougzzjoxugbjoudfyuzrqoa
uuuuuurzsabcrus zfurqouvzza,udfxuqouqdxu.zfrabpox,unbrqurqdru.drgbjo
uuuuuugzpouziu oaczfdgu.godfgbfoccunqb.qundcuzfouziuqbc
uuuuuu.qdad.roabcrb.c,urqdruqbcu.qbfucqzsgxumoudcucvzzrqudfxuqbcugbfof
uuuuuudcu oaio.rudcubiuqounoaoubfuMdjoauCraoork

uuuuuu“Bufopoaundcuvzaoutgdxurzucooudfyzfoubfuvyugbio,”ucdbxuBudcuB
uuuuuunasftuqbvumyurqouqdfxk

uuuuuu“Zauvzaoudcrzfbcqox,uoq?”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uBuvscru.zfioccurzubrk”

uuuuuu“Rqoucsa abcoundcufzrudgguzfuzfoucbxo,uBudccsaouyzskuBuqdxufz
uuuuuubxodurqdruyzsuqdxuizsfxuvyuz..dcbzfdguaoraodr,ucrbggugoccurqdr
uuuuuuyzsunoaoubfcbxoubr,usfrbguBundcunbrqbfurnofryu d.ocuziurqouxzzak”

uuuuuu“Vyuizzr abfr,uBu aocsvo?”

uuuuuu“Fz,uNdrczf,uBuiodaurqdruBu.zsgxufzrusfxoardjourzuao.ztfblouyzsa
uuuuuuizzr abfrudvbxudggurqouizzr abfrcuziurqounzagxkuBiuyzsucoabzscgy
uuuuuuxocbaourzuxo.obpouvouyzsuvscru.qdftouyzsaurzmd..zfbcr;uizaunqofuB
uuuuuucoourqoucrsmuziudu.btdaorrouvdajoxuMadxgoy,uZhizaxuCraoor,uBujfzn
uuuuuurqdruvyuiabofxuNdrczfubcubfurqoufobtqmzsaqzzxkuYzsunbggucooubr
uuuuuurqoaoumocbxourqou drqkuYzsurqaonubruxznf,ufzuxzsmr,udrurqdr
uuuuuucs aovouvzvofrunqofuyzsu.qdatoxubfrzurqouov ryuqsrk”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgyk”

uuuuuu“Burqzstqrudcuvs.q—dfxujfznbftuyzsaudxvbadmgourofd.bryuBundc
uuuuuu.zfpbf.oxurqdruyzsunoaoucbrrbftubfudvmscq,udunod zfunbrqbfuaod.q,
uuuuuundbrbftuizaurqourofdfrurzuaorsafkuCzuyzsud.rsdggyurqzstqrurqdruB
uuuuuundcurqou.abvbfdg?”

uuuuuu“Buxbxufzrujfznunqzuyzsunoao,umsruBundcuxoroavbfoxurzuibfxuzsrk”

uuuuuu“Oh.oggofr,uNdrczf!uDfxuqznuxbxuyzsugz.dgbcouvo?uYzsucdnuvo,
uuuuuu oaqd c,uzfurqoufbtqruziurqou.zfpb.ruqsfr,unqofuBundcucz
uuuuuubv asxofrudcurzudggznurqouvzzfurzuabcoumoqbfxuvo?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uBucdnuyzsurqofk”

uuuuuu“Dfxuqdpoufzuxzsmrucoda.qoxudggurqouqsrcusfrbguyzsu.dvourzurqbc
uuuuuuzfo?”

uuuuuu“Fz,uyzsaumzyuqdxumoofuzmcoapox,udfxurqdrutdpouvoudutsbxounqoao
uuuuuurzugzzjk”

uuuuuu“Rqouzgxutofrgovdfunbrqurqourogoc.z o,ufzuxzsmrkuBu.zsgxufzruvdjo
uuuuuubruzsrunqofuibacruBucdnurqougbtqruigdcqbftus zfurqougofck”uQo
uuuuuuazcoudfxu oo oxubfrzurqouqsrku“Qd,uBucoourqdru.darnabtqruqdc
uuuuuumazstqrus uczvoucs  gbockuNqdr’curqbcu d oa?uCzuyzsuqdpoumoofurz
uuuuuu.zzvmouRad.oy,uqdpouyzs?”

uuuuuu“Yock”

uuuuuu“RzucoouVackuGdsaduGyzfc?”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgyk”

uuuuuu“Nogguxzfo!uZsauaocoda.qocuqdpouopbxofrgyumoofuasffbftuzf
uuuuuu dadggogugbfoc,udfxunqofunousfbrouzsauaocsgrcuBuoh o.runoucqdgg
uuuuuuqdpouduidbagyuisggujfzngoxtouziurqou.dcok”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uBudvutgdxuiazvuvyuqodarurqdruyzsudaouqoao,uizaubfxooxurqo
uuuuuuaoc zfcbmbgbryudfxurqouvycroayunoaoumzrqumo.zvbfturzzuvs.quizauvy
uuuuuufoapockuMsruqznubfurqoufdvouziunzfxoauxbxuyzsu.zvouqoao,udfxunqdr
uuuuuuqdpouyzsumoofuxzbft?uBurqzstqrurqdruyzsunoaoubfuMdjoauCraoor
uuuuuunzajbftuzsrurqdru.dcouziumgd.jvdbgbftk”

uuuuuu“RqdrundcunqdruBunbcqoxuyzsurzurqbfjk”

uuuuuu“Rqofuyzsuscouvo,udfxuyoruxzufzrurascruvo!”uBu.aboxunbrquczvo
uuuuuumbrroafoccku“BurqbfjurqdruBuqdpouxocoapoxumorroaudruyzsauqdfxc,
uuuuuuQzgvock”

uuuuuu“Vyuxodauioggzn,uyzsuqdpoumoofubfpdgsdmgourzuvoubfurqbcudcubf
uuuuuuvdfyuzrqoau.dcoc,udfxuBumoturqdruyzsunbgguizatbpouvoubiuBuqdpo
uuuuuucoovoxurzu gdyudurab.jus zfuyzskuBfurasrq,ubrundcu dargyuizauyzsa
uuuuuuznfucdjourqdruBuxbxubr,udfxubrundcuvyud  ao.bdrbzfuziurqouxdftoa
uuuuuunqb.quyzsuadfunqb.qugoxuvourzu.zvouxznfudfxuohdvbfourqouvdrroa
uuuuuuizauvycogikuQdxuBumoofunbrquCbauQofayudfxuyzsubrubcu.zfibxofr
uuuuuurqdruvyu zbfruziupbonunzsgxuqdpoumoofurqoucdvoudcuyzsac,udfxuvy
uuuuuu aocof.ounzsgxuqdpoundafoxuzsaupoayuizavbxdmgouz  zfofrcurzumouzf
uuuuuurqobautsdaxkuDcubrubc,uBuqdpoumoofudmgourzutorudmzsrudcuBu.zsgx
uuuuuufzru zccbmgyuqdpouxzfouqdxuBumoofugbpbftubfurqouQdgg,udfxuB
uuuuuuaovdbfudfusfjfznfuid.rzaubfurqoumscbfocc,uaodxyurzurqaznubfudgg
uuuuuuvyunobtqrudrudu.abrb.dguvzvofrk”

uuuuuu“Msrunqyujoo uvoubfurqouxdaj?”

uuuuuu“Izauyzsurzujfznu.zsgxufzruqdpouqog oxuscudfxuvbtqru zccbmgyuqdpo
uuuuuugoxurzuvyuxbc.zpoaykuYzsunzsgxuqdpounbcqoxurzurogguvouczvorqbft,
uuuuuuzaubfuyzsaujbfxfoccuyzsunzsgxuqdpoumazstqruvouzsruczvou.zvizaruza
uuuuuuzrqoa,udfxuczudfusffo.occdayuabcjunzsgxumouasfkuBumazstqr
uuuuuu.darnabtqruxznfunbrquvo—yzsuaovovmoaurqougbrrgou.qd udrurqo
uuuuuuoh aoccuziib.o—dfxuqouqdcucoofudiroauvyucbv goundfrc:udugzdiuzi
uuuuuumaodxudfxudu.godfu.zggdakuNqdruxzocuvdfundfruvzao?uQouqdcutbpof
uuuuuuvoudfuohradu dbauziuoyocus zfudupoayud.rbpou dbauziuioor,udfx
uuuuuumzrquqdpoumoofubfpdgsdmgok”

uuuuuu“Rqofuvyuao zarcuqdpoudggumoofundcrox!”—Vyupzb.ouraovmgoxudcuB
uuuuuuao.dggoxurqou dbfcudfxurqou abxounbrqunqb.quBuqdxu.zv zcoxurqovk

uuuuuuQzgvocurzzjudumsfxgouziu d oacuiazvuqbcu z.jork

uuuuuu“Qoaoudaouyzsauao zarc,uvyuxodauioggzn,udfxupoayunoggurqsvmox,uB
uuuuuudccsaouyzskuBuvdxouoh.oggofrudaadftovofrc,udfxurqoyudaouzfgy
uuuuuuxogdyoxuzfouxdyus zfurqobaundykuBuvscru.zv gbvofruyzsuoh.ooxbftgy
uuuuuus zfurqoulodgudfxurqoubfroggbtof.ounqb.quyzsuqdpoucqznfuzpoaudf
uuuuuuohradzaxbfdabgyuxbiib.sgru.dcok”

uuuuuuBundcucrbgguadrqoauadnuzpoaurqouxo.o rbzfunqb.quqdxumoof
uuuuuu ad.rbcoxus zfuvo,umsrurqoundavrquziuQzgvoc’cu adbcouxazpouvy
uuuuuudftoauiazvuvyuvbfxkuBuiogrudgczubfuvyuqodarurqdruqoundcuabtqrubf
uuuuuunqdruqoucdbxudfxurqdrubrundcuaodggyumocruizauzsau sa zcourqdruB
uuuuuucqzsgxufzruqdpoujfznfurqdruqoundcus zfurqouvzzak

uuuuuu“Rqdr’cumorroa,”ucdbxuqo,ucoobfturqoucqdxznuabcouiazvuvyuid.ok
uuuuuu“DfxufznurogguvourqouaocsgruziuyzsaupbcbrurzuVackuGdsaduGyzfc—br
uuuuuundcufzruxbiib.sgruizauvourzutsoccurqdrubrundcurzucoouqoaurqdruyzs
uuuuuuqdxutzfo,uizauBudvudgaodxyudndaourqdrucqoubcurqouzfou oaczfubf
uuuuuu.zzvmouRad.oyunqzuvbtqrumouziucoapb.ourzuscubfurqouvdrroakuBf
uuuuuuid.r,ubiuyzsuqdxufzrutzfourzxdyubrubcuoh.ooxbftgyu azmdmgourqdruB
uuuuuucqzsgxuqdpoutzfourzvzaaznk”

uuuuuuRqoucsfuqdxucorudfxuxscjundcucorrgbftuzpoaurqouvzzakuRqoudbauqdx
uuuuuursafoxu.qbggudfxunounbrqxaonubfrzurqouqsruizaundavrqkuRqoao,
uuuuuucbrrbfturztorqoaubfurqournbgbtqr,uBurzgxuQzgvocuziuvy
uuuuuu.zfpoacdrbzfunbrqurqougdxykuCzubfroaocroxundcuqourqdruBuqdxurz
uuuuuuao odruczvouziubrurnb.oumoizaouqoundcucdrbciboxk

uuuuuu“Rqbcubcuvzcrubv zardfr,”ucdbxuqounqofuBuqdxu.zf.gsxoxku“Bruibggc
uuuuuus udutd unqb.quBuqdxumoofusfdmgourzumabxtoubfurqbcuvzcru.zv goh
uuuuuudiidbakuYzsudaoudndao,u oaqd c,urqdrudu.gzcoubfrbvd.yuohbcrc
uuuuuumornoofurqbcugdxyudfxurqouvdfuCrd gorzf?”

uuuuuu“Buxbxufzrujfznuziudu.gzcoubfrbvd.yk”

uuuuuu“Rqoaou.dfumoufzuxzsmrudmzsrurqouvdrroakuRqoyuvoor,urqoyunabro,
uuuuuurqoaoubcudu.zv gorousfxoacrdfxbftumornoofurqovkuFzn,urqbcu srcud
uuuuuupoayu znoaisgunod zfubfrzuzsauqdfxckuBiuBu.zsgxuzfgyuscoubrurz
uuuuuuxord.quqbcunbio—”

uuuuuu“Qbcunbio?”

uuuuuu“Budvutbpbftuyzsuczvoubfizavdrbzfufzn,ubfuaorsafuizaudggurqdruyzs
uuuuuuqdpoutbpofuvokuRqougdxyunqzuqdcu dccoxuqoaoudcuVbccuCrd gorzfubc
uuuuuubfuaodgbryuqbcunbiok”

uuuuuu“Tzzxuqodpofc,uQzgvoc!uDaouyzsucsaouziunqdruyzsucdy?uQznu.zsgxuqo
uuuuuuqdpou oavbrroxuCbauQofayurzuidggubfugzpounbrquqoa?”

uuuuuu“CbauQofay’cuidggbftubfugzpou.zsgxuxzufzuqdavurzudfyzfouoh.o r
uuuuuuCbauQofaykuQourzzju darb.sgdau.daourqdruCbauQofayuxbxufzruvdjo
uuuuuugzpourzuqoa,udcuyzsuqdpouyzsacogiuzmcoapoxkuBuao odrurqdrurqo
uuuuuugdxyubcuqbcunbioudfxufzruqbcucbcroak”

uuuuuu“Msrunqyurqbcuogdmzadrouxo.o rbzf?”

uuuuuu“Mo.dscouqouizaocdnurqdrucqounzsgxumoupoayuvs.quvzaouscoisgurz
uuuuuuqbvubfurqou.qdad.roauziuduiaoounzvdfk”

uuuuuuDgguvyusfc zjofubfcrbf.rc,uvyupdtsoucsc b.bzfc,ucsxxofgyurzzj
uuuuuucqd oudfxu.ofraoxus zfurqoufdrsadgbcrkuBfurqdrubv dccbpo
uuuuuu.zgzsagoccuvdf,unbrquqbcucradnuqdrudfxuqbcumsrroaigy-for,uB
uuuuuucoovoxurzucoouczvorqbfturoaabmgo—du.aodrsaouziubfibfbrou drbof.o
uuuuuudfxu.adir,unbrquducvbgbftuid.oudfxuduvsaxoazscuqodark

uuuuuu“Brubcuqo,urqof,unqzubcuzsauofovy—brubcuqounqzuxzttoxuscubf
uuuuuuGzfxzf?”

uuuuuu“CzuBuaodxurqouabxxgok”

uuuuuu“Dfxurqoundafbft—bruvscruqdpou.zvouiazvuqoa!”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgyk”

uuuuuuRqoucqd ouziuczvouvzfcrazscupbggdbfy,uqdgiucoof,uqdgiutsoccox,
uuuuuugzzvoxurqazstqurqouxdajfoccunqb.quqdxutbaruvouczugzftk

uuuuuu“Msrudaouyzsucsaouziurqbc,uQzgvoc?uQznuxzuyzsujfznurqdrurqounzvdf
uuuuuubcuqbcunbio?”

uuuuuu“Mo.dscouqouczuidauizatzruqbvcogiudcurzurogguyzsudurasou bo.ouzi
uuuuuudsrzmbztad qyus zfurqouz..dcbzfunqofuqouibacruvoruyzs,udfxuBuxdao
uuuuuucdyuqouqdcuvdfyudurbvouaotaorroxubrucbf.okuQoundcuzf.oud
uuuuuuc.qzzgvdcroaubfurqoufzarquziuOftgdfxkuFzn,urqoaoubcufzuzfouvzao
uuuuuuodcyurzurad.ourqdfuduc.qzzgvdcroakuRqoaoudaouc.qzgdcrb.udtof.boc
uuuuuumyunqb.quzfouvdyubxofrbiyudfyuvdfunqzuqdcumoofubfurqou azioccbzfk
uuuuuuDugbrrgoubfpocrbtdrbzfucqznoxuvourqdruduc.qzzguqdxu.zvourzutaboi
uuuuuusfxoaudraz.bzscu.ba.svcrdf.oc,udfxurqdrurqouvdfunqzuqdxuznfox
uuuuuubr—rqoufdvoundcuxbiioaofr—qdxuxbcd  odaoxunbrquqbcunbiokuRqo
uuuuuuxoc.ab rbzfcudtaooxkuNqofuBugodafoxurqdrurqouvbccbftuvdfundc
uuuuuuxopzroxurzuofrzvzgztyurqoubxofrbib.drbzfundcu.zv gorok”

uuuuuuRqouxdajfoccundcuabcbft,umsruvs.qundcucrbgguqbxxofumyurqo
uuuuuucqdxznck

uuuuuu“Biurqbcunzvdfubcubfurasrquqbcunbio,unqoaouxzocuVackuGdsaduGyzfc
uuuuuu.zvoubf?”uBudcjoxk

uuuuuu“Rqdrubcuzfouziurqou zbfrcus zfunqb.quyzsauznfuaocoda.qocuqdpo
uuuuuucqoxudugbtqrkuYzsaubfroapbonunbrqurqougdxyuqdcu.godaoxurqo
uuuuuucbrsdrbzfupoayuvs.qkuBuxbxufzrujfznudmzsrudu azwo.roxuxbpza.o
uuuuuumornoofuqoacogiudfxuqoauqscmdfxkuBfurqdru.dco,uaotdaxbft
uuuuuuCrd gorzfudcudfusfvdaaboxuvdf,ucqou.zsfroxufzuxzsmrus zfumo.zvbft
uuuuuuqbcunbiok”

uuuuuu“Dfxunqofucqoubcusfxo.obpox?”

uuuuuu“Nqy,urqofunouvdyuibfxurqougdxyuziucoapb.okuBruvscrumouzsauibacr
uuuuuuxsryurzucoouqoa—mzrquziusc—rzvzaaznkuXzf’ruyzsurqbfj,uNdrczf,
uuuuuurqdruyzsudaoudndyuiazvuyzsau.qdatouadrqoaugzft?uYzsau gd.oucqzsgx
uuuuuumoudruMdcjoapbggouQdggk”

uuuuuuRqougdcruaoxucraodjcuqdxuidxoxudndyubfurqounocrudfxufbtqruqdx
uuuuuucorrgoxus zfurqouvzzakuDuionuidbfrucrdacunoaoutgodvbftubfud
uuuuuupbzgorucjyk

uuuuuu“Zfougdcruesocrbzf,uQzgvoc,”uBucdbxudcuBuazcoku“Csaogyurqoaoubc
uuuuuufzufooxuziuco.ao.yumornoofuyzsudfxuvokuNqdrubcurqouvodfbftuziubr
uuuuuudgg?uNqdrubcuqoudiroa?”

uuuuuuQzgvoc’cupzb.oucdfjudcuqoudfcnoaox:

uuuuuu“Brubcuvsaxoa,uNdrczf—aoibfox,u.zgx-mgzzxox,uxogbmoadrouvsaxoak
uuuuuuXzufzrudcjuvouizau darb.sgdackuVyuforcudaou.gzcbftus zfuqbv,uopof
uuuuuudcuqbcudaous zfuCbauQofay,udfxunbrquyzsauqog uqoubcudgaodxy
uuuuuudgvzcrudruvyuvoa.ykuRqoaoubcumsruzfouxdftoaunqb.qu.dfurqaodrof
uuuuuusckuBrubcurqdruqoucqzsgxucrabjoumoizaounoudaouaodxyurzuxzuczk
uuuuuuDfzrqoauxdy—rnzudrurqouvzcr—dfxuBuqdpouvyu.dcou.zv goro,umsr
uuuuuusfrbgurqofutsdaxuyzsau.qdatoudcu.gzcogyudcuopoauduizfxuvzrqoa
uuuuuundr.qoxuqoaudbgbftu.qbgxkuYzsauvbccbzfurzxdyuqdcuwscrbibox
uuuuuubrcogi,udfxuyoruBu.zsgxudgvzcrunbcqurqdruyzsuqdxufzrugoiruqbc
uuuuuucbxokuQdaj!”

uuuuuuDuroaabmgouc.aodv—du azgzftoxuyogguziuqzaazaudfxudftsbcq—msacr
uuuuuuzsruziurqoucbgof.ouziurqouvzzakuRqdruiabtqrisgu.ayursafoxurqo
uuuuuumgzzxurzub.oubfuvyupobfck

uuuuuu“Zq,uvyuTzx!”uButdc oxku“Nqdrubcubr?uNqdruxzocubruvodf?”

uuuuuuQzgvocuqdxuc asfturzuqbcuioor,udfxuBucdnuqbcuxdaj,udrqgorb.
uuuuuuzsrgbfoudrurqouxzzauziurqouqsr,uqbcucqzsgxoacucrzz bft,uqbcuqodx
uuuuuurqascruizandax,uqbcuid.ou ooabftubfrzurqouxdajfocck

uuuuuu“Qscq!”uqounqbc oaoxku“Qscq!”

uuuuuuRqou.ayuqdxumoofugzsxuzfud..zsfruziubrcupoqovof.o,umsrubruqdx
uuuuuu odgoxuzsruiazvuczvonqoaouidauziiuzfurqoucqdxznyu gdbfkuFznubr
uuuuuumsacrus zfuzsauodac,ufodaoa,ugzsxoa,uvzaousatofrurqdfumoizaok

uuuuuu“Nqoaoubcubr?”uQzgvocunqbc oaox;udfxuBujfonuiazvurqourqabgguzi
uuuuuuqbcupzb.ourqdruqo,urqouvdfuziubazf,undcucqdjofurzurqouczsgk
uuuuuu“Nqoaoubcubr,uNdrczf?”

uuuuuu“Rqoao,uBurqbfjk”uBu zbfroxubfrzurqouxdajfocck

uuuuuu“Fz,urqoao!”

uuuuuuDtdbfurqoudtzfbcoxu.ayucno rurqazstqurqoucbgofrufbtqr,ugzsxoaudfx
uuuuuuvs.qufodaoaurqdfuopoakuDfxudufonuczsfxuvbftgoxunbrqubr,uduxoo ,
uuuuuuvsrroaoxuasvmgo,uvscb.dgudfxuyoruvofd.bft,uabcbftudfxuidggbft
uuuuuugbjourqougzn,u.zfcrdfruvsavsauziurqoucodk

uuuuuu“Rqouqzsfx!”u.aboxuQzgvocku“.zvo,uNdrczf,u.zvo!uTaodruqodpofc,ubi
uuuuuunoudaourzzugdro!”

uuuuuuQouqdxucrdaroxuasffbftucnbirgyuzpoaurqouvzza,udfxuBuqdxuizggznox
uuuuuudruqbcuqoogckuMsrufznuiazvuczvonqoaoudvzfturqoumazjofutazsfx
uuuuuubvvoxbdrogyubfuiazfruziuscurqoaou.dvouzfougdcruxoc dbabftuyogg,
uuuuuudfxurqofuduxsgg,uqodpyurqsxkuNouqdgroxudfxugbcrofoxkuFzrudfzrqoa
uuuuuuczsfxumazjourqouqodpyucbgof.ouziurqounbfxgoccufbtqrk

uuuuuuBucdnuQzgvocu sruqbcuqdfxurzuqbcuizaoqodxugbjouduvdfuxbcrad.roxk
uuuuuuQoucrdv oxuqbcuioorus zfurqoutazsfxk

uuuuuu“Qouqdcumodrofusc,uNdrczfkuNoudaourzzugdrok”

uuuuuu“Fz,ufz,ucsaogyufzr!”

uuuuuu“IzzgurqdruBundcurzuqzgxuvyuqdfxkuDfxuyzs,uNdrczf,ucoounqdru.zvoc
uuuuuuziudmdfxzfbftuyzsau.qdato!uMsr,umyuQodpof,ubiurqounzacruqdc
uuuuuuqd  ofoxuno’ggudpoftouqbv!”

uuuuuuMgbfxgyunouadfurqazstqurqoutgzzv,umgsfxoabftudtdbfcrumzsgxoac,
uuuuuuiza.bftuzsaundyurqazstqutzacoumscqoc,u dfrbftus uqbggcudfx
uuuuuuascqbftuxznfucgz oc,uqodxbftudgndycubfurqouxbao.rbzfunqof.ourqzco
uuuuuuxaodxisguczsfxcuqdxu.zvokuDruopoayuabcouQzgvocugzzjoxuodtoagy
uuuuuuazsfxuqbv,umsrurqoucqdxzncunoaourqb.jus zfurqouvzza,udfxufzrqbft
uuuuuuvzpoxus zfubrcuxaodayuid.ok

uuuuuu“.dfuyzsucooudfyrqbft?”

uuuuuu“Fzrqbftk”

uuuuuu“Msr,uqdaj,unqdrubcurqdr?”

uuuuuuDugznuvzdfuqdxuidggofus zfuzsauodackuRqoaoubrundcudtdbfus zfuzsa
uuuuuugoir!uZfurqdrucbxouduabxtouziuaz.jcuofxoxubfuducqooau.gbiiunqb.q
uuuuuuzpoagzzjoxuducrzfo-craonfucgz okuZfubrcuwdttoxuid.oundc
uuuuuuc aodx-odtgoxuczvouxdaj,ubaaotsgdauzmwo.rkuDcunouadfurzndaxcubr
uuuuuurqoupdtsouzsrgbfouqdaxofoxubfrzuduxoibfbroucqd okuBrundcud
uuuuuu azcradrouvdfuid.ouxznfndaxus zfurqoutazsfx,urqouqodxuxzsmgox
uuuuuusfxoauqbvudruduqzaabmgoudftgo,urqoucqzsgxoacuazsfxoxudfxurqoumzxy
uuuuuuqsf.qoxurztorqoaudcubiubfurqoud.ruziurqaznbftuduczvoacdsgrkuCz
uuuuuutazrocesoundcurqoudrrbrsxourqdruBu.zsgxufzruizaurqoubfcrdfr
uuuuuuaodgbcourqdrurqdruvzdfuqdxumoofurqou dccbftuziuqbcuczsgkuFzrud
uuuuuunqbc oa,ufzruduascrgo,uazcoufznuiazvurqouxdajuibtsaouzpoaunqb.q
uuuuuunoucrzz oxkuQzgvocugdbxuqbcuqdfxus zfuqbvudfxuqogxubrus udtdbf
uuuuuunbrqudfuoh.gdvdrbzfuziuqzaazakuRqoutgodvuziurqouvdr.qunqb.quqo
uuuuuucras.jucqzfous zfuqbcu.gzrroxuibftoacudfxus zfurqoutqdcrgyu zzg
uuuuuunqb.qunbxofoxucgzngyuiazvurqou.ascqoxucjsgguziurqoupb.rbvkuDfxubr
uuuuuucqzfous zfuczvorqbftuogcounqb.qursafoxuzsauqodarcucb.judfxuidbfr
uuuuuunbrqbfusc—rqoumzxyuziuCbauQofayuMdcjoapbggo!

uuuuuuRqoaoundcufzu.qdf.ouziuobrqoauziuscuizatorrbfturqdru o.sgbda
uuuuuuasxxyurnooxucsbr—rqoupoayuzfounqb.quqouqdxunzafuzfurqouibacr
uuuuuuvzafbfturqdrunouqdxucoofuqbvubfuMdjoauCraoorkuNou.dstqrurqouzfo
uuuuuu.godautgbv couziubr,udfxurqofurqouvdr.quigb.joaoxudfxunofruzsr,
uuuuuuopofudcurqouqz ouqdxutzfouzsruziuzsauczsgckuQzgvocutazdfox,udfx
uuuuuuqbcuid.outgbvvoaoxunqbrourqazstqurqouxdajfocck

uuuuuu“Rqoumasro!uRqoumasro!”uBu.aboxunbrqu.gof.qoxuqdfxcku“ZquQzgvoc,
uuuuuuBucqdggufopoauizatbpouvycogiuizauqdpbftugoiruqbvurzuqbcuidrok”

uuuuuu“Budvuvzaourzumgdvourqdfuyzs,uNdrczfkuBfuzaxoaurzuqdpouvyu.dco
uuuuuunogguazsfxoxudfxu.zv goro,uBuqdpourqaznfudndyurqougbiouziuvy
uuuuuu.gbofrkuBrubcurqoutaodrocrumgznunqb.quqdcumoidggofuvoubfuvy
uuuuuu.daooakuMsruqznu.zsgxuBujfzn—qznu_.zsgx_uBujfzn—rqdruqounzsgx
uuuuuuabcjuqbcugbioudgzfous zfurqouvzzaubfurqouid.ouziudgguvy
uuuuuundafbftc?”

uuuuuu“Rqdrunoucqzsgxuqdpouqodaxuqbcuc.aodvc—vyuTzx,urqzcouc.aodvc!—dfx
uuuuuuyoruqdpoumoofusfdmgourzucdpouqbv!uNqoaoubcurqbcumasrouziuduqzsfx
uuuuuunqb.quxazpouqbvurzuqbcuxodrq?uBruvdyumougsajbftudvzfturqocouaz.jc
uuuuuudrurqbcubfcrdfrkuDfxuCrd gorzf,unqoaoubcuqo?uQoucqdggudfcnoauiza
uuuuuurqbcuxooxk”

uuuuuu“QoucqdggkuBunbggucoourzurqdrkuSf.goudfxufo qonuqdpoumoof
uuuuuuvsaxoaox—rqouzfouiabtqrofoxurzuxodrqumyurqoupoayucbtqruziudumodcr
uuuuuunqb.quqourqzstqrurzumoucs oafdrsadg,urqouzrqoauxabpofurzuqbcuofx
uuuuuubfuqbcunbgxuigbtqrurzuoc.d ouiazvubrkuMsrufznunouqdpourzu azpo
uuuuuurqou.zffo.rbzfumornoofurqouvdfudfxurqoumodcrkuCdpouiazvunqdruno
uuuuuuqodax,unou.dffzruopofucnodaurzurqouohbcrof.ouziurqougdrroa,ucbf.o
uuuuuuCbauQofayuqdcuopbxofrgyuxboxuiazvurqouidggkuMsr,umyuqodpofc,
uuuuuu.sffbftudcuqoubc,urqouioggznucqdggumoubfuvyu znoaumoizaoudfzrqoa
uuuuuuxdyubcu dcr!”

uuuuuuNoucrzzxunbrqumbrroauqodarcuzfuobrqoaucbxouziurqouvdftgoxumzxy,
uuuuuuzpoanqogvoxumyurqbcucsxxofudfxubaaopz.dmgouxbcdcroaunqb.quqdx
uuuuuumazstqrudgguzsaugzftudfxunodayugdmzsacurzuczu brozscudfuofxkuRqof
uuuuuudcurqouvzzfuazcounou.gbvmoxurzurqourz uziurqouaz.jcuzpoaunqb.q
uuuuuuzsau zzauiabofxuqdxuidggof,udfxuiazvurqoucsvvbrunoutdloxuzsruzpoa
uuuuuurqoucqdxznyuvzza,uqdgiucbgpoaudfxuqdgiutgzzvkuIdaudndy,uvbgoc
uuuuuuzii,ubfurqouxbao.rbzfuziuTabv of,uducbftgoucrodxyuyoggznugbtqr
uuuuuundcucqbfbftkuBru.zsgxuzfgyu.zvouiazvurqougzfogyudmzxouziurqo
uuuuuuCrd gorzfckuNbrqudumbrroau.sacouBucqzzjuvyuibcrudrubrudcuButdloxk

uuuuuu“Nqyucqzsgxunoufzrucoblouqbvudruzf.o?”

uuuuuu“Zsau.dcoubcufzru.zv gorokuRqouioggznubcundayudfxu.sffbfturzurqo
uuuuuugdcruxotaookuBrubcufzrunqdrunoujfzn,umsrunqdrunou.dfu azpokuBiuno
uuuuuuvdjouzfouidgcouvzpourqoupbggdbfuvdyuoc.d ouscuyork”

uuuuuu“Nqdru.dfunouxz?”

uuuuuu“Rqoaounbggumou gofryuizauscurzuxzurzvzaaznkuRzfbtqrunou.dfuzfgy
uuuuuu oaizavurqougdcruziib.ocurzuzsau zzauiabofxk”

uuuuuuRztorqoaunouvdxouzsaundyuxznfurqou ao.b brzscucgz oudfx
uuuuuud  azd.qoxurqoumzxy,umgd.judfxu.godaudtdbfcrurqoucbgpoaoxucrzfock
uuuuuuRqoudtzfyuziurqzcou.zfrzaroxugbvmcucras.juvounbrquduc dcvuziu dbf
uuuuuudfxumgsaaoxuvyuoyocunbrqurodack

uuuuuu“Nouvscrucofxuizauqog ,uQzgvoc!uNou.dffzru.daayuqbvudggurqoundy
uuuuuurzurqouQdggkuTzzxuqodpofc,udaouyzsuvdx?”

uuuuuuQouqdxusrroaoxudu.ayudfxumofruzpoaurqoumzxykuFznuqoundcuxdf.bft
uuuuuudfxugdstqbftudfxunabftbftuvyuqdfxku.zsgxurqbcumouvyucroaf,
uuuuuucogi-.zfrdbfoxuiabofx?uRqocounoaouqbxxofuibaoc,ubfxoox!

uuuuuu“Dumodax!uDumodax!uRqouvdfuqdcudumodax!”

uuuuuu“Dumodax?”

uuuuuu“Brubcufzrurqoumdazfor—brubc—nqy,ubrubcuvyufobtqmzsa,urqo
uuuuuu.zfpb.r!”

uuuuuuNbrquiopoabcquqdcrounouqdxursafoxurqoumzxyuzpoa,udfxurqdr
uuuuuuxab  bftumodaxundcu zbfrbftus urzurqou.zgx,u.godauvzzfkuRqoao
uuuuuu.zsgxumoufzuxzsmrudmzsrurqoumoorgbftuizaoqodx,urqoucsfjofudfbvdg
uuuuuuoyockuBrundcubfxooxurqoucdvouid.ounqb.quqdxutgdaoxus zfuvoubfurqo
uuuuuugbtqruziurqou.dfxgouiazvuzpoaurqouaz.j—rqouid.ouziuCogxof,urqo
uuuuuu.abvbfdgk

uuuuuuRqofubfudfubfcrdfrubrundcudggu.godaurzuvokuBuaovovmoaoxuqznurqo
uuuuuumdazforuqdxurzgxuvourqdruqouqdxuqdfxoxuqbcuzgxundaxazmourz
uuuuuuMdaayvzaokuMdaayvzaouqdxu dccoxubruzfubfuzaxoaurzuqog uCogxofubf
uuuuuuqbcuoc.d okuMzzrc,ucqbar,u.d —brundcudgguCbauQofay’ckuRqouradtoxy
uuuuuundcucrbggumgd.juofzstq,umsrurqbcuvdfuqdxudrugodcruxocoapoxuxodrq
uuuuuumyurqougdncuziuqbcu.zsfraykuBurzgxuQzgvocuqznurqouvdrroaucrzzx,
uuuuuuvyuqodarumsmmgbftuzpoaunbrqurqdfjisgfoccudfxuwzyk

uuuuuu“Rqofurqou.gzrqocuqdpoumoofurqou zzauxopbg’cuxodrq,”ucdbxuqoku“Br
uuuuuubcu.godauofzstqurqdrurqouqzsfxuqdcumoofugdbxuzfuiazvuczvoudarb.go
uuuuuuziuCbauQofay’c—rqoumzzrunqb.qundcudmcrad.roxubfurqouqzrog,ubfudgg
uuuuuu azmdmbgbry—dfxuczuadfurqbcuvdfuxznfkuRqoaoubcuzfoupoayucbftsgda
uuuuuurqbft,uqznopoa:uQznu.dvouCogxof,ubfurqouxdajfocc,urzujfznurqdr
uuuuuurqouqzsfxundcuzfuqbcuradbg?”

uuuuuu“Qouqodaxuqbvk”

uuuuuu“Rzuqodauduqzsfxus zfurqouvzzaunzsgxufzrunzajuduqdaxuvdfugbjo
uuuuuurqbcu.zfpb.rubfrzucs.qudu dazhycvuziuroaazaurqdruqounzsgxuabcj
uuuuuuao.d rsaoumyuc.aodvbftunbgxgyuizauqog kuMyuqbcu.abocuqouvscruqdpo
uuuuuuasfudugzftundyudiroauqoujfonurqoudfbvdgundcuzfuqbcurad.jkuQznuxbx
uuuuuuqoujfzn?”

uuuuuu“Dutaodroauvycroayurzuvoubcunqyurqbcuqzsfx,u aocsvbfturqdrudgg
uuuuuuzsau.zfwo.rsaocudaou.zaao.r—”

uuuuuu“Bu aocsvoufzrqbftk”

uuuuuu“Nogg,urqof,unqyurqbcuqzsfxucqzsgxumougzzcourzfbtqrkuBucs  zco
uuuuuurqdrubruxzocufzrudgndycuasfugzzcous zfurqouvzzakuCrd gorzfunzsgx
uuuuuufzrugorubrutzusfgoccuqouqdxuaodczfurzurqbfjurqdruCbauQofayunzsgx
uuuuuumourqoaok”

uuuuuu“Vyuxbiib.sgryubcurqouvzaouizavbxdmgouziurqournz,uizauBurqbfj
uuuuuurqdrunoucqdggupoayucqzargyutorudfuoh gdfdrbzfuziuyzsac,unqbgo
uuuuuuvbfouvdyuaovdbfuizaopoauduvycroaykuRqouesocrbzfufznubc,unqdr
uuuuuucqdggunouxzunbrqurqbcu zzaunaor.q’cumzxy?uNou.dffzrugodpoubruqoao
uuuuuurzurqouizhocudfxurqouadpofck”

uuuuuu“Bucsttocrurqdrunou srubrubfuzfouziurqouqsrcusfrbgunou.df
uuuuuu.zvvsfb.drounbrqurqou zgb.ok”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgykuBuqdpoufzuxzsmrurqdruyzsudfxuBu.zsgxu.daayubruczuidak
uuuuuuQdggzd,uNdrczf,unqdr’curqbc?uBr’curqouvdfuqbvcogi,umyudggurqdr’c
uuuuuunzfxoaisgudfxudsxd.bzsc!uFzrudunzaxurzucqznuyzsaucsc b.bzfc—fzrud
uuuuuunzax,uzauvyu gdfcu.asvmgourzurqoutazsfxk”

uuuuuuDuibtsaoundcud  azd.qbftuscuzpoaurqouvzza,udfxuBucdnurqouxsgguaox
uuuuuutgznuziudu.btdakuRqouvzzfucqzfous zfuqbv,udfxuBu.zsgxuxbcrbftsbcq
uuuuuurqouxd  oaucqd oudfxuwdsfryundgjuziurqoufdrsadgbcrkuQoucrz  ox
uuuuuunqofuqoucdnusc,udfxurqofu.dvouzfudtdbfk

uuuuuu“Nqy,uXakuNdrczf,urqdr’cufzruyzs,ubcubr?uYzsudaourqougdcruvdf
uuuuuurqdruBucqzsgxuqdpouoh o.roxurzucoouzsruzfurqouvzzaudrurqbcurbvo
uuuuuuziufbtqrkuMsr,uxodauvo,unqdr’curqbc?uCzvomzxyuqsar?uFzr—xzf’r
uuuuuurogguvourqdrubrubcuzsauiabofxuCbauQofay!”uQouqsaaboxu dcruvoudfx
uuuuuucrzz oxuzpoaurqouxodxuvdfkuBuqodaxuducqda ubfrdjouziuqbcumaodrq
uuuuuudfxurqou.btdauiogguiazvuqbcuibftoack

uuuuuu“Nqz—nqz’curqbc?”uqoucrdvvoaoxk

uuuuuu“BrubcuCogxof,urqouvdfunqzuoc.d oxuiazvu abf.orznfk”

uuuuuuCrd gorzfursafoxudutqdcrgyuid.ous zfusc,umsrumyuducs aovouoiizar
uuuuuuqouqdxuzpoa.zvouqbcudvdlovofrudfxuqbcuxbcd  zbfrvofrkuQougzzjox
uuuuuucqda gyuiazvuQzgvocurzuvoku“Xodauvo!uNqdrudupoayucqz.jbftudiidba!
uuuuuuQznuxbxuqouxbo?”

uuuuuu“Qoud  odacurzuqdpoumazjofuqbcufo.jumyuidggbftuzpoaurqocouaz.jck
uuuuuuVyuiabofxudfxuBunoaoucrazggbftuzfurqouvzzaunqofunouqodaxudu.ayk”

uuuuuu“Buqodaxudu.ayudgczkuRqdrundcunqdrumazstqruvouzsrkuBundcusfodcy
uuuuuudmzsruCbauQofayk”

uuuuuu“NqyudmzsruCbauQofayubfu darb.sgda?”uBu.zsgxufzruqog udcjbftk

uuuuuu“Mo.dscouBuqdxucsttocroxurqdruqoucqzsgxu.zvouzpoakuNqofuqouxbx
uuuuuufzru.zvouBundcucsa abcox,udfxuBufdrsadggyumo.dvoudgdavoxuizauqbc
uuuuuucdioryunqofuBuqodaxu.abocus zfurqouvzzakuMyurqoundy”—qbcuoyoc
uuuuuuxdaroxudtdbfuiazvuvyuid.ourzuQzgvoc’c—“xbxuyzsuqodaudfyrqbftuogco
uuuuuumocbxocudu.ay?”

uuuuuu“Fz,”ucdbxuQzgvoc;u“xbxuyzs?”

uuuuuu“Fzk”

uuuuuu“Nqdruxzuyzsuvodf,urqof?”

uuuuuu“Zq,uyzsujfznurqoucrzabocurqdrurqou odcdfrcuroggudmzsrudu qdfrzv
uuuuuuqzsfx,udfxuczuzfkuBrubcucdbxurzumouqodaxudrufbtqrus zfurqouvzzak
uuuuuuBundcunzfxoabftubiurqoaounoaoudfyuopbxof.ouziucs.quduczsfx
uuuuuurzfbtqrk”

uuuuuu“Nouqodaxufzrqbftuziurqoujbfx,”ucdbxuBk

uuuuuu“Dfxunqdrubcuyzsaurqozayuziurqbcu zzauioggzn’cuxodrq?”

uuuuuu“Buqdpoufzuxzsmrurqdrudfhboryudfxuoh zcsaouqdpouxabpofuqbvuzii
uuuuuuqbcuqodxkuQouqdcuascqoxudmzsrurqouvzzaubfudu.adlyucrdroudfx
uuuuuuopofrsdggyuidggofuzpoauqoaoudfxumazjofuqbcufo.jk”

uuuuuu“Rqdrucoovcurqouvzcruaodczfdmgourqozay,”ucdbxuCrd gorzf,udfxuqo
uuuuuutdpouducbtqunqb.quBurzzjurzubfxb.drouqbcuaogboiku“Nqdruxzuyzs
uuuuuurqbfjudmzsrubr,uVakuCqoagz.juQzgvoc?”

uuuuuuVyuiabofxumznoxuqbcu.zv gbvofrcku“Yzsudaouesb.judr
uuuuuubxofrbib.drbzf,”ucdbxuqok

uuuuuu“Nouqdpoumoofuoh o.rbftuyzsubfurqocou darcucbf.ouXakuNdrczfu.dvo
uuuuuuxznfkuYzsudaoubfurbvourzucoouduradtoxyk”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ubfxooxkuBuqdpoufzuxzsmrurqdruvyuiabofx’cuoh gdfdrbzfunbgg
uuuuuu.zpoaurqouid.rckuBunbggurdjoudfusf godcdfruaovovmadf.oumd.jurz
uuuuuuGzfxzfunbrquvourzvzaaznk”

uuuuuu“Zq,uyzsuaorsafurzvzaazn?”

uuuuuu“Rqdrubcuvyubfrofrbzfk”

uuuuuu“Buqz ouyzsaupbcbruqdcu.dcruczvougbtqrus zfurqzcouz..saaof.oc
uuuuuunqb.quqdpou sllgoxusc?”

uuuuuuQzgvocucqasttoxuqbcucqzsgxoack

uuuuuu“Zfou.dffzrudgndycuqdpourqoucs..occuizaunqb.quzfouqz ockuDf
uuuuuubfpocrbtdrzaufooxcuid.rcudfxufzrugotofxcuzauasvzsackuBruqdcufzr
uuuuuumoofuducdrbcid.rzayu.dcok”

uuuuuuVyuiabofxuc zjoubfuqbcuiadfjocrudfxuvzcrusf.zf.oafoxuvdffoak
uuuuuuCrd gorzfucrbggugzzjoxuqdaxudruqbvkuRqofuqoursafoxurzuvok

uuuuuu“Bunzsgxucsttocru.daaybfturqbcu zzauioggznurzuvyuqzsco,umsrubr
uuuuuunzsgxutbpouvyucbcroaucs.quduiabtqrurqdruBuxzufzruiooguwscrbibox
uuuuuubfuxzbftubrkuBurqbfjurqdrubiunou sruczvorqbftuzpoauqbcuid.ouqo
uuuuuunbggumoucdiousfrbguvzafbftk”

uuuuuuDfxuczubrundcudaadftoxkuAocbcrbftuCrd gorzf’cuziioauzi
uuuuuuqzc brdgbry,uQzgvocudfxuBucoruziiurzuMdcjoapbggouQdgg,ugodpbft
uuuuuurqoufdrsadgbcrurzuaorsafudgzfokuGzzjbftumd.junoucdnurqouibtsao
uuuuuuvzpbftucgzngyudndyuzpoaurqoumazdxuvzza,udfxumoqbfxuqbvurqdruzfo
uuuuuumgd.jucvsxtouzfurqoucbgpoaoxucgz ounqb.qucqznoxunqoaourqouvdfundc
uuuuuugybftunqzuqdxu.zvouczuqzaabmgyurzuqbcuofxk

uuuuuu“No’aoudru.gzcoutab cudrugdcr,”ucdbxuQzgvocudcunoundgjoxurztorqoa
uuuuuud.azccurqouvzzaku“Nqdrudufoapourqouioggznuqdc!uQznuqou sggox
uuuuuuqbvcogiurztorqoaubfurqouid.ouziunqdruvscruqdpoumoofudu dadgylbft
uuuuuucqz.junqofuqouizsfxurqdrurqounazftuvdfuqdxuidggofudupb.rbvurzuqbc
uuuuuu gzrkuBurzgxuyzsubfuGzfxzf,uNdrczf,udfxuBurogguyzsufznudtdbf,
uuuuuurqdrunouqdpoufopoauqdxuduizovdfuvzaounzarqyuziuzsaucroogk”

uuuuuu“Budvuczaayurqdruqouqdcucoofuyzsk”

uuuuuu“DfxuczundcuBudruibacrkuMsrurqoaoundcufzutorrbftuzsruziubrk”

uuuuuu“Nqdruoiio.ruxzuyzsurqbfjubrunbgguqdpous zfuqbcu gdfcufznurqdruqo
uuuuuujfzncuyzsudaouqoao?”

uuuuuu“Bruvdyu.dscouqbvurzumouvzaou.dsrbzsc,uzaubruvdyuxabpouqbvurz
uuuuuuxoc oadrouvodcsaocudruzf.okuGbjouvzcru.gopoau.abvbfdgc,uqouvdyumo
uuuuuurzzu.zfibxofrubfuqbcuznfu.gopoafoccudfxubvdtbfourqdruqouqdc
uuuuuu.zv gorogyuxo.obpoxusck”

uuuuuu“Nqyucqzsgxunoufzrudaaocruqbvudruzf.o?”

uuuuuu“VyuxodauNdrczf,uyzsunoaoumzafurzumouduvdfuziud.rbzfkuYzsa
uuuuuubfcrbf.rubcudgndycurzuxzuczvorqbftuofoatorb.kuMsrucs  zcbft,uiza
uuuuuudatsvofr’cucdjo,urqdrunouqdxuqbvudaaocroxurzfbtqr,unqdruzfuodarq
uuuuuurqoumorroauziiucqzsgxunoumouizaurqdr?uNou.zsgxu azpoufzrqbft
uuuuuudtdbfcruqbvkuRqoao’curqouxopbgbcqu.sffbftuziubr!uBiuqounoao
uuuuuud.rbfturqazstquduqsvdfudtofrunou.zsgxutoruczvouopbxof.o,umsrubi
uuuuuunounoaourzuxadturqbcutaodruxzturzurqougbtqruziuxdyubrunzsgxufzr
uuuuuuqog uscubfu srrbftuduaz ouazsfxurqoufo.juziubrcuvdcroak”

uuuuuu“Csaogyunouqdpoudu.dcok”

uuuuuu“Fzruducqdxznuziuzfo—zfgyucsavbcoudfxu.zfwo.rsaokuNoucqzsgxumo
uuuuuugdstqoxuzsruziu.zsarubiunou.dvounbrqucs.quducrzayudfxucs.q
uuuuuuopbxof.ok”

uuuuuu“RqoaoubcuCbau.qdagoc’cuxodrqk”

uuuuuu“Izsfxuxodxunbrqzsruduvdajus zfuqbvkuYzsudfxuBujfznurqdruqouxbox
uuuuuuziucqooauiabtqr,udfxunoujfznudgczunqdruiabtqrofoxuqbv,umsruqzn
uuuuuudaounourzutorurnogpoucrzgbxuwsayvofurzujfznubr?uNqdrucbtfcudao
uuuuuurqoaouziuduqzsfx?uNqoaoudaourqouvdajcuziubrcuidftc?uZiu.zsacouno
uuuuuujfznurqdruduqzsfxuxzocufzrumbrouduxodxumzxyudfxurqdruCbau.qdagoc
uuuuuundcuxodxumoizaouopoaurqoumasrouzpoarzzjuqbvkuMsrunouqdpourzu azpo
uuuuuudggurqbc,udfxunoudaoufzrubfudu zcbrbzfurzuxzubrk”

uuuuuu“Nogg,urqof,urzfbtqr?”

uuuuuu“Noudaoufzruvs.qumorroauziiurzfbtqrkuDtdbf,urqoaoundcufzuxbao.r
uuuuuu.zffo.rbzfumornoofurqouqzsfxudfxurqouvdf’cuxodrqkuNoufopoaucdn
uuuuuurqouqzsfxkuNouqodaxubr,umsrunou.zsgxufzru azpourqdrubrundc
uuuuuuasffbftus zfurqbcuvdf’curadbgkuRqoaoubcudu.zv goroudmcof.ouzi
uuuuuuvzrbpokuFz,uvyuxodauioggzn;unouvscruao.zf.bgouzsacogpocurzurqo
uuuuuuid.rurqdrunouqdpoufzu.dcoudru aocofr,udfxurqdrubrubcunzarquzsa
uuuuuunqbgourzuasfudfyuabcjubfuzaxoaurzuocrdmgbcquzfok”

uuuuuu“Dfxuqznuxzuyzsu az zcourzuxzucz?”

uuuuuu“Buqdpoutaodruqz ocuziunqdruVackuGdsaduGyzfcuvdyuxzuizauscunqof
uuuuuurqou zcbrbzfuziudiidbacubcuvdxou.godaurzuqoakuDfxuBuqdpouvyuznf
uuuuuu gdfudcunoggkuCsiib.bofruizaurzvzaaznubcurqouopbgurqoaozi;umsruB
uuuuuuqz oumoizaourqouxdyubcu dcrurzuqdpourqous  oauqdfxudrugdcrk”

uuuuuuBu.zsgxuxadnufzrqbftuisarqoauiazvuqbv,udfxuqoundgjox,ugzcrubf
uuuuuurqzstqr,udcuidaudcurqouMdcjoapbggoutdrock

uuuuuu“Daouyzsu.zvbftus ?”

uuuuuu“Yoc;uBucooufzuaodczfuizauisarqoau.zf.odgvofrkuMsruzfougdcrunzax,
uuuuuuNdrczfkuCdyufzrqbftuziurqouqzsfxurzuCbauQofaykuGoruqbvurqbfjurqdr
uuuuuuCogxof’cuxodrqundcudcuCrd gorzfunzsgxuqdpouscumogbopokuQounbgg
uuuuuuqdpoudumorroaufoapouizaurqouzaxodgunqb.quqounbgguqdpourzusfxoatz
uuuuuurzvzaazn,unqofuqoubcuoftdtox,ubiuBuaovovmoauyzsauao zarudabtqr,
uuuuuurzuxbfounbrqurqocou oz gok”

uuuuuu“DfxuczudvuBk”

uuuuuu“Rqofuyzsuvscruoh.scouyzsacogiudfxuqouvscrutzudgzfokuRqdrunbggumo
uuuuuuodcbgyudaadftoxkuDfxufzn,ubiunoudaourzzugdrouizauxbffoa,uBurqbfj
uuuuuurqdrunoudaoumzrquaodxyuizauzsaucs  oack”



.qd roau13k

IbhbfturqouForc

uuuuuuCbauQofayundcuvzaou godcoxurqdfucsa abcoxurzucoouCqoagz.juQzgvoc,
uuuuuuizauqouqdxuizauczvouxdycumoofuoh o.rbfturqdruao.ofruopofrcunzsgx
uuuuuumabftuqbvuxznfuiazvuGzfxzfkuQouxbxuadbcouqbcuoyomaznc,uqznopoa,
uuuuuunqofuqouizsfxurqdruvyuiabofxuqdxufobrqoaudfyugsttdtoufzaudfy
uuuuuuoh gdfdrbzfcuizaubrcudmcof.okuMornoofuscunouczzfucs  gboxuqbc
uuuuuundfrc,udfxurqofuzpoaudumogdroxucs  oaunouoh gdbfoxurzurqoumdazfor
uuuuuudcuvs.quziuzsauoh oabof.oudcubrucoovoxuxocbadmgourqdruqoucqzsgx
uuuuuujfznkuMsruibacruBuqdxurqousf godcdfruxsryuziumaodjbfturqoufoncurz
uuuuuuMdaayvzaoudfxuqbcunbiokuRzuqbvubruvdyuqdpoumoofudfusfvbrbtdrox
uuuuuuaogboi,umsrucqouno rumbrroagyubfuqoaud azfkuRzudggurqounzagxuqo
uuuuuundcurqouvdfuziupbzgof.o,uqdgiudfbvdgudfxuqdgiuxovzf;umsrurzuqoa
uuuuuuqoudgndycuaovdbfoxurqougbrrgounbgisgumzyuziuqoauznfutbagqzzx,urqo
uuuuuu.qbgxunqzuqdxu.gsfturzuqoauqdfxkuOpbgubfxooxubcurqouvdfunqzuqdc
uuuuuufzruzfounzvdfurzuvzsafuqbvk

uuuuuu“B’poumoofuvz bftubfurqouqzscoudgguxdyucbf.ouNdrczfunofruziiubf
uuuuuurqouvzafbft,”ucdbxurqoumdazforku“ButsoccuBucqzsgxuqdpouczvo
uuuuuu.aoxbr,uizauBuqdpoujo ruvyu azvbcokuBiuBuqdxf’rucnzafufzrurzutz
uuuuuudmzsrudgzfouBuvbtqruqdpouqdxuduvzaougbpogyuopofbft,uizauBuqdxud
uuuuuuvoccdtouiazvuCrd gorzfudcjbftuvouzpoaurqoaok”

uuuuuu“Buqdpoufzuxzsmrurqdruyzsunzsgxuqdpouqdxuduvzaougbpogyuopofbft,”
uuuuuucdbxuQzgvocuxabgyku“Myurqoundy,uBuxzf’rucs  zcouyzsud  ao.bdro
uuuuuurqdrunouqdpoumoofuvzsafbftuzpoauyzsudcuqdpbftumazjofuyzsaufo.j?”

uuuuuuCbauQofayuz ofoxuqbcuoyocku“Qznundcurqdr?”

uuuuuu“Rqbcu zzaunaor.qundcuxaoccoxubfuyzsau.gzrqockuBuiodauyzsa
uuuuuucoapdfrunqzutdpourqovurzuqbvuvdyutorubfrzurazsmgounbrqurqo
uuuuuu zgb.ok”

uuuuuu“RqdrubcusfgbjogykuRqoaoundcufzuvdajuzfudfyuziurqov,udcuidaudcuB
uuuuuujfznk”

uuuuuu“Rqdr’cugs.jyuizauqbv—bfuid.r,ubr’cugs.jyuizaudgguziuyzs,ucbf.o
uuuuuuyzsudaoudgguzfurqounazftucbxouziurqougdnubfurqbcuvdrroakuBudvufzr
uuuuuucsaourqdrudcudu.zfc.bofrbzscuxoro.rbpouvyuibacruxsryubcufzrurz
uuuuuudaaocrurqounqzgouqzscoqzgxkuNdrczf’cuao zarcudaouvzcr
uuuuuubf.abvbfdrbftuxz.svofrck”

uuuuuu“Msruqznudmzsrurqou.dco?”udcjoxurqoumdazforku“Qdpouyzsuvdxo
uuuuuudfyrqbftuzsruziurqourdftgo?uBuxzf’rujfznurqdruNdrczfudfxuBudao
uuuuuuvs.qurqounbcoaucbf.ounou.dvouxznfk”

uuuuuu“BurqbfjurqdruBucqdggumoubfudu zcbrbzfurzuvdjourqoucbrsdrbzf
uuuuuuadrqoauvzaou.godaurzuyzsumoizaougzftkuBruqdcumoofudfuoh.ooxbftgy
uuuuuuxbiib.sgrudfxuvzcru.zv gb.droxumscbfocckuRqoaoudaoucopoadgu zbfrc
uuuuuus zfunqb.qunoucrbggundfrugbtqr—msrubrubcu.zvbftudggurqoucdvok”

uuuuuu“No’pouqdxuzfouoh oabof.o,udcuNdrczfuqdcufzuxzsmrurzgxuyzskuNo
uuuuuuqodaxurqouqzsfxuzfurqouvzza,uczuBu.dfucnodaurqdrubrubcufzrudgg
uuuuuuov ryucs oacrbrbzfkuBuqdxuczvorqbfturzuxzunbrquxztcunqofuBundc
uuuuuuzsruNocr,udfxuBujfznuzfounqofuBuqodauzfokuBiuyzsu.dfuvsllgourqdr
uuuuuuzfoudfxu sruqbvuzfudu.qdbfuB’ggumouaodxyurzucnodauyzsudaourqo
uuuuuutaodrocruxoro.rbpouziudggurbvok”

uuuuuu“BurqbfjuBunbgguvsllgouqbvudfxu.qdbfuqbvudgguabtqrubiuyzsunbgg
uuuuuutbpouvouyzsauqog k”

uuuuuu“NqdropoauyzsurogguvourzuxzuBunbgguxzk”

uuuuuu“Poayutzzx;udfxuBunbggudcjuyzsudgczurzuxzubrumgbfxgy,unbrqzsr
uuuuuudgndycudcjbfturqouaodczfk”

uuuuuu“Wscrudcuyzsugbjok”

uuuuuu“BiuyzsunbgguxzurqbcuBurqbfjurqou.qdf.ocudaourqdruzsaugbrrgo
uuuuuu azmgovunbgguczzfumouczgpoxkuBuqdpoufzuxzsmr—”

uuuuuuQoucrz  oxucsxxofgyudfxucrdaoxuibhoxgyus uzpoauvyuqodxubfrzurqo
uuuuuudbakuRqougdv umodrus zfuqbcuid.o,udfxuczubfrofrundcubrudfxucz
uuuuuucrbggurqdrubruvbtqruqdpoumoofurqdruziudu.goda-.sru.gdccb.dg
uuuuuucrdrso,udu oaczfbib.drbzfuziudgoarfoccudfxuoh o.rdrbzfk

uuuuuu“Nqdrubcubr?”unoumzrqu.aboxk

uuuuuuBu.zsgxucooudcuqougzzjoxuxznfurqdruqoundcuao aoccbftuczvo
uuuuuubfroafdguovzrbzfkuQbcuiodrsaocunoaoucrbggu.zv zcox,umsruqbcuoyoc
uuuuuucqzfounbrqudvscoxuohsgrdrbzfk

uuuuuu“Oh.scourqoudxvbadrbzfuziudu.zffzbccosa,”ucdbxuqoudcuqoundpoxuqbc
uuuuuuqdfxurzndaxcurqougbfouziu zaradbrcunqb.qu.zpoaoxurqouz  zcbro
uuuuuundggku“Ndrczfunzf’rudggznurqdruBujfznudfyrqbftuziudarumsrurqdrubc
uuuuuuvoaouwodgzscyumo.dscouzsaupboncus zfurqoucsmwo.ruxbiioakuFzn,
uuuuuurqocoudaouduaodggyupoayuibfoucoabocuziu zaradbrck”

uuuuuu“Nogg,uB’vutgdxurzuqodauyzsucdyucz,”ucdbxuCbauQofay,utgdf.bft
uuuuuunbrquczvoucsa abcoudruvyuiabofxku“Buxzf’ru aorofxurzujfznuvs.q
uuuuuudmzsrurqocourqbftc,udfxuB’xumoudumorroauwsxtouziuduqzacouzaud
uuuuuucrooaurqdfuziudu b.rsaokuBuxbxf’rujfznurqdruyzsuizsfxurbvouiza
uuuuuucs.qurqbftck”

uuuuuu“BujfznunqdrubcutzzxunqofuBucooubr,udfxuBucooubrufznkuRqdr’cud
uuuuuuJfoggoa,uB’ggucnoda,urqdrugdxyubfurqoumgsoucbgjuzpoauyzfxoa,udfx
uuuuuurqoucrzsrutofrgovdfunbrqurqounbtuzstqrurzumouduAoyfzgxckuRqoyudao
uuuuuudgguidvbgyu zaradbrc,uBu aocsvo?”

uuuuuu“Opoayuzfok”

uuuuuu“Xzuyzsujfznurqoufdvoc?”

uuuuuu“Mdaayvzaouqdcumoofu.zd.qbftuvoubfurqov,udfxuBurqbfjuBu.dfucdyuvy
uuuuuugocczfcuidbagyunoggk”

uuuuuu“Nqzubcurqoutofrgovdfunbrqurqourogoc.z o?”

uuuuuu“RqdrubcuAoda-DxvbadguMdcjoapbggo,unqzucoapoxusfxoauAzxfoyubfurqo
uuuuuuNocruBfxbockuRqouvdfunbrqurqoumgsou.zdrudfxurqouazgguziu d oaubc
uuuuuuCbauNbggbdvuMdcjoapbggo,unqzundcu.qdbavdfuziu.zvvbrroocuziurqo
uuuuuuQzscouziu.zvvzfcusfxoau brrk”

uuuuuu“Dfxurqbcu.dpdgboauz  zcbrourzuvo—rqouzfounbrqurqoumgd.jupogpor
uuuuuudfxurqougd.o?”

uuuuuu“Dq,uyzsuqdpouduabtqrurzujfznudmzsruqbvkuRqdrubcurqou.dscouziudgg
uuuuuurqouvbc.qboi,urqounb.joxuQstz,unqzucrdaroxurqouQzsfxuziurqo
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggockuNo’aoufzrugbjogyurzuizatoruqbvk”

uuuuuuButdloxunbrqubfroaocrudfxuczvoucsa abcous zfurqou zaradbrk

uuuuuu“Xodauvo!”ucdbxuQzgvoc,u“qoucoovcuduesbor,uvooj-vdffoaoxuvdf
uuuuuuofzstq,umsruBuxdaoucdyurqdrurqoaoundcudugsajbftuxopbgubfuqbc
uuuuuuoyockuBuqdxu b.rsaoxuqbvudcuduvzaouazmscrudfxuasiibdfgyu oaczfk”

uuuuuu“Rqoao’cufzuxzsmrudmzsrurqoudsrqofrb.bry,uizaurqoufdvoudfxurqo
uuuuuuxdro,u1647,udaouzfurqoumd.juziurqou.dfpdck”

uuuuuuQzgvocucdbxugbrrgouvzao,umsrurqou b.rsaouziurqouzgxuazycroaoa
uuuuuucoovoxurzuqdpouduidc.bfdrbzfuizauqbv,udfxuqbcuoyocunoao
uuuuuu.zfrbfsdggyuibhoxus zfubruxsabftucs  oakuBrundcufzrusfrbgugdroa,
uuuuuunqofuCbauQofayuqdxutzfourzuqbcuazzv,urqdruBundcudmgourzuizggzn
uuuuuurqouraofxuziuqbcurqzstqrckuQougoxuvoumd.jubfrzurqo
uuuuuumdfesorbft-qdgg,uqbcumoxazzvu.dfxgoubfuqbcuqdfx,udfxuqouqogxubr
uuuuuus udtdbfcrurqourbvo-crdbfoxu zaradbruzfurqoundggk

uuuuuu“Xzuyzsucooudfyrqbfturqoao?”

uuuuuuBugzzjoxudrurqoumazdxu gsvoxuqdr,urqou.sagbftugzpo-gz.jc,urqo
uuuuuunqbrougd.ou.zggda,udfxurqoucradbtqr,ucopoaouid.ounqb.qundcuiadvox
uuuuuumornoofurqovkuBrundcufzrudumasrdgu.zsfrofdf.o,umsrubrundcu abv,
uuuuuuqdax,udfxucroaf,unbrquduibav-cor,urqbf-gb  oxuvzsrq,udfxudu.zgxgy
uuuuuubfrzgoadfruoyok

uuuuuu“Bcubrugbjoudfyzfouyzsujfzn?”

uuuuuu“RqoaoubcuczvorqbftuziuCbauQofayudmzsrurqouwdnk”

uuuuuu“Wscruducsttocrbzf,u oaqd ckuMsrundbrudfubfcrdfr!”uQoucrzzxus zf
uuuuuudu.qdba,udfx,uqzgxbftus urqougbtqrubfuqbcugoiruqdfx,uqou.sapox
uuuuuuqbcuabtqrudavuzpoaurqoumazdxuqdrudfxuazsfxurqougzftuabftgorck

uuuuuu“Tzzxuqodpofc!”uBu.aboxubfudvdlovofrk

uuuuuuRqouid.ouziuCrd gorzfuqdxuc asftuzsruziurqou.dfpdck

uuuuuu“Qd,uyzsucooubrufznkuVyuoyocuqdpoumoofuradbfoxurzuohdvbfouid.oc
uuuuuudfxufzrurqobaurabvvbftckuBrubcurqouibacruesdgbryuziudu.abvbfdg
uuuuuubfpocrbtdrzaurqdruqoucqzsgxucoourqazstquduxbctsbcok”

uuuuuu“MsrurqbcubcuvdapoggzsckuBruvbtqrumouqbcu zaradbrk”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ubrubcudfubfroaocrbftubfcrdf.ouziudurqaznmd.j,unqb.qud  odac
uuuuuurzumoumzrqu qycb.dgudfxuc babrsdgkuDucrsxyuziuidvbgyu zaradbrcubc
uuuuuuofzstqurzu.zfpoaruduvdfurzurqouxz.rabfouziuaobf.dafdrbzfkuRqo
uuuuuuioggznubcuduMdcjoapbggo—rqdrubcuopbxofrk”

uuuuuu“Nbrquxocbtfcus zfurqoucs..occbzfk”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgykuRqbcu.qdf.ouziurqou b.rsaouqdcucs  gboxuscunbrquzfouzi
uuuuuuzsauvzcruzmpbzscuvbccbftugbfjckuNouqdpouqbv,uNdrczf,unouqdpouqbv,
uuuuuudfxuBuxdaoucnodaurqdrumoizaourzvzaaznufbtqruqounbggumouigsrroabft
uuuuuubfuzsauforudcuqog goccudcuzfouziuqbcuznfumsrroaigbockuDu bf,ud
uuuuuu.zaj,udfxudu.dax,udfxunoudxxuqbvurzurqouMdjoauCraooru.zggo.rbzf!”
uuuuuuQoumsacrubfrzuzfouziuqbcuadaouibrcuziugdstqroaudcuqoursafoxudndy
uuuuuuiazvurqou b.rsaokuBuqdpoufzruqodaxuqbvugdstquzirof,udfxubruqdc
uuuuuudgndycumzxoxubggurzuczvomzxyk

uuuuuuBundcus umorbvocubfurqouvzafbft,umsruQzgvocundcudizzruodagboa
uuuuuucrbgg,uizauBucdnuqbvudcuBuxaoccox,u.zvbftus urqouxabpok

uuuuuu“Yoc,unoucqzsgxuqdpouduisgguxdyurzxdy,”uqouaovdajox,udfxuqo
uuuuuuasmmoxuqbcuqdfxcunbrqurqouwzyuziud.rbzfku“Rqouforcudaoudggubf
uuuuuu gd.o,udfxurqouxadtubcudmzsrurzumotbfkuNo’ggujfznumoizaourqouxdy
uuuuuubcuzsrunqorqoaunouqdpou.dstqruzsaumbt,ugodf-wdnoxu bjo,uza
uuuuuunqorqoauqouqdcutzrurqazstqurqouvocqock”

uuuuuu“Qdpouyzsumoofuzfurqouvzzaudgaodxy?”

uuuuuu“Buqdpoucofruduao zaruiazvuTabv ofurzu abf.orznfudcurzurqouxodrq
uuuuuuziuCogxofkuBurqbfjuBu.dfu azvbcourqdrufzfouziuyzsunbggumo
uuuuuurazsmgoxubfurqouvdrroakuDfxuBuqdpoudgczu.zvvsfb.droxunbrquvy
uuuuuuidbrqisgu.darnabtqr,unqzunzsgxu.oardbfgyuqdpou bfoxudndyudrurqo
uuuuuuxzzauziuvyuqsr,udcuduxztuxzocudruqbcuvdcroa’cutadpo,ubiuBuqdxufzr
uuuuuucoruqbcuvbfxudruaocrudmzsruvyucdioryk”

uuuuuu“Nqdrubcurqoufohruvzpo?”

uuuuuu“RzucoouCbauQofaykuDq,uqoaouqoubc!”

uuuuuu“Tzzx-vzafbft,uQzgvoc,”ucdbxurqoumdazforku“Yzsugzzjugbjoud
uuuuuutofoadgunqzubcu gdffbftudumdrrgounbrquqbcu.qboiuziurqoucrdiik”

uuuuuu“Rqdrubcurqouohd.rucbrsdrbzfkuNdrczfundcudcjbftuizauzaxoack”

uuuuuu“DfxuczuxzuBk”

uuuuuu“PoayutzzxkuYzsudaouoftdtox,udcuBusfxoacrdfx,urzuxbfounbrquzsa
uuuuuuiabofxcurqouCrd gorzfcurzfbtqrk”

uuuuuu“Buqz ourqdruyzsunbggu.zvoudgczkuRqoyudaoupoayuqzc brdmgou oz go,
uuuuuudfxuBudvucsaourqdrurqoyunzsgxumoupoayutgdxurzucoouyzsk”

uuuuuu“BuiodaurqdruNdrczfudfxuBuvscrutzurzuGzfxzfk”

uuuuuu“RzuGzfxzf?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uBurqbfjurqdrunoucqzsgxumouvzaouscoisgurqoaoudrurqou aocofr
uuuuuuwsf.rsaok”

uuuuuuRqoumdazfor’cuid.ou oa.o rbmgyugoftrqofoxk

uuuuuu“Buqz oxurqdruyzsunoaoutzbfturzucoouvourqazstqurqbcumscbfocckuRqo
uuuuuuQdggudfxurqouvzzaudaoufzrupoayu godcdfru gd.ocunqofuzfoubc
uuuuuudgzfok”

uuuuuu“Vyuxodauioggzn,uyzsuvscrurascruvoubv gb.brgyudfxuxzuohd.rgyunqdr
uuuuuuBurogguyzskuYzsu.dfurogguyzsauiabofxcurqdrunoucqzsgxuqdpoumoof
uuuuuuqd  yurzuqdpou.zvounbrquyzs,umsrurqdrusatofrumscbfoccuaoesbaoxusc
uuuuuurzumoubfurznfkuNouqz oupoayuczzfurzuaorsafurzuXopzfcqbaokuNbgg
uuuuuuyzsuaovovmoaurzutbpourqovurqdruvoccdto?”

uuuuuu“Biuyzsubfcbcrus zfubrk”

uuuuuu“Rqoaoubcufzudgroafdrbpo,uBudccsaouyzsk”

uuuuuuBucdnumyurqoumdazfor’cu.gzsxoxumaznurqdruqoundcuxoo gyuqsarumy
uuuuuunqdruqouaotdaxoxudcuzsauxocoarbzfk

uuuuuu“Nqofuxzuyzsuxocbaourzutz?”uqoudcjoxu.zgxgyk

uuuuuu“BvvoxbdrogyudiroaumaodjidcrkuNounbgguxabpoubfurzu.zzvmouRad.oy,
uuuuuumsruNdrczfunbggugodpouqbcurqbftcudcudu goxtourqdruqounbggu.zvo
uuuuuumd.jurzuyzskuNdrczf,uyzsunbggucofxudufzrourzuCrd gorzfurzurogg
uuuuuuqbvurqdruyzsuaotaorurqdruyzsu.dffzru.zvok”

uuuuuu“BuqdpoudutzzxuvbfxurzutzurzuGzfxzfunbrquyzs,”ucdbxurqoumdazfork
uuuuuu“NqyucqzsgxuBucrdyuqoaoudgzfo?”

uuuuuu“Mo.dscoubrubcuyzsau zcruziuxsrykuMo.dscouyzsutdpouvouyzsaunzax
uuuuuurqdruyzsunzsgxuxzudcuyzsunoaourzgx,udfxuBurogguyzsurzucrdyk”

uuuuuu“Dgguabtqr,urqof,uB’ggucrdyk”

uuuuuu“Zfouvzaouxbao.rbzf!uBunbcquyzsurzuxabpourzuVoaab bruQzscokuCofx
uuuuuumd.juyzsaurad ,uqznopoa,udfxugorurqovujfznurqdruyzsubfrofxurz
uuuuuundgjuqzvok”

uuuuuu“Rzundgjud.azccurqouvzza?”

uuuuuu“Yock”

uuuuuu“Msrurqdrubcurqoupoayurqbftunqb.quyzsuqdpouczuzirofu.dsrbzfoxuvo
uuuuuufzrurzuxzk”

uuuuuu“RqbcurbvouyzsuvdyuxzubrunbrqucdiorykuBiuBuqdxufzruopoay
uuuuuu.zfibxof.oubfuyzsaufoapoudfxu.zsadtouBunzsgxufzrucsttocrubr,umsr
uuuuuubrubcuoccofrbdgurqdruyzsucqzsgxuxzubrk”

uuuuuu“RqofuBunbgguxzubrk”

uuuuuu“Dfxudcuyzsupdgsouyzsaugbiouxzufzrutzud.azccurqouvzzaubfudfy
uuuuuuxbao.rbzfucdpoudgzfturqoucradbtqru drqunqb.qugodxcuiazvuVoaab br
uuuuuuQzscourzurqouTabv ofuAzdx,udfxubcuyzsaufdrsadgundyuqzvok”

uuuuuu“Bunbgguxzuwscrunqdruyzsucdyk”

uuuuuu“PoayutzzxkuBucqzsgxumoutgdxurzutorudndyudcuczzfudiroaumaodjidcr
uuuuuudcu zccbmgo,uczudcurzuaod.quGzfxzfubfurqoudiroafzzfk”

uuuuuuBundcuvs.qudcrzsfxoxumyurqbcu aztadvvo,urqzstquBuaovovmoaoxurqdr
uuuuuuQzgvocuqdxucdbxurzuCrd gorzfuzfurqoufbtqrumoizaourqdruqbcupbcbr
uuuuuunzsgxuroavbfdroufohruxdykuBruqdxufzru.azccoxuvyuvbfxuqznopoa,
uuuuuurqdruqounzsgxunbcquvourzutzunbrquqbv,ufzau.zsgxuBusfxoacrdfxuqzn
uuuuuunou.zsgxumzrqumoudmcofrudruduvzvofrunqb.quqouqbvcogiuxo.gdaoxurz
uuuuuumou.abrb.dgkuRqoaoundcufzrqbftuizaubr,uqznopoa,umsrubv gb.br
uuuuuuzmoxbof.o;uczunoumdxoutzzx-myourzuzsauasoisguiabofx,udfxudu.zs go
uuuuuuziuqzsacudiroandaxcunounoaoudrurqoucrdrbzfuziu.zzvmouRad.oyudfx
uuuuuuqdxuxbc dr.qoxurqourad us zfubrcuaorsafuwzsafoykuDucvdggumzyundc
uuuuuundbrbftus zfurqou gdrizavk

uuuuuu“Dfyuzaxoac,ucba?”

uuuuuu“Yzsunbggurdjourqbcuradbfurzurznf,u.darnabtqrkuRqouvzvofruyzs
uuuuuudaabpouyzsunbggucofxudunbaourzuCbauQofayuMdcjoapbggo,ubfuvyufdvo,
uuuuuurzucdyurqdrubiuqouibfxcurqou z.jormzzjunqb.quBuqdpouxaz  oxuqoubc
uuuuuurzucofxubrumyuaotbcroaoxu zcrurzuMdjoauCraoork”

uuuuuu“Yoc,ucbak”

uuuuuu“Dfxudcjudrurqoucrdrbzfuziib.oubiurqoaoubcuduvoccdtouizauvok”

uuuuuuRqoumzyuaorsafoxunbrqudurogotadv,unqb.quQzgvocuqdfxoxurzuvokuBr
uuuuuuadf:

uuuuuuNbaouao.obpoxku.zvbftuxznfunbrqusfcbtfoxundaadfrkuDaabpo
uuuuuuibpo-izarykuGocradxok

uuuuuu“RqdrubcubfudfcnoaurzuvbfouziurqbcuvzafbftkuQoubcurqoumocruziurqo
uuuuuu azioccbzfdgc,uBurqbfj,udfxunouvdyufooxuqbcudccbcrdf.okuFzn,
uuuuuuNdrczf,uBurqbfjurqdrunou.dffzruov gzyuzsaurbvoumorroaurqdfumy
uuuuuu.dggbftus zfuyzsaud.esdbfrdf.o,uVackuGdsaduGyzfck”

uuuuuuQbcu gdfuziu.dv dbtfundcumotbffbfturzumouopbxofrkuQounzsgxusco
uuuuuurqoumdazforubfuzaxoaurzu.zfpbf.ourqouCrd gorzfcurqdrunounoao
uuuuuuaodggyutzfo,unqbgounoucqzsgxud.rsdggyuaorsafudrurqoubfcrdfrunqof
uuuuuunounoaougbjogyurzumoufooxoxkuRqdrurogotadvuiazvuGzfxzf,ubi
uuuuuuvofrbzfoxumyuCbauQofayurzurqouCrd gorzfc,uvscruaovzpourqougdcr
uuuuuucsc b.bzfcuiazvurqobauvbfxckuDgaodxyuBucoovoxurzucoouzsauforc
uuuuuuxadnbftu.gzcoaudazsfxurqdrugodf-wdnoxu bjok

uuuuuuVackuGdsaduGyzfcundcubfuqoauziib.o,udfxuCqoagz.juQzgvocuz ofox
uuuuuuqbcubfroapbonunbrquduiadfjfoccudfxuxbao.rfoccunqb.qu.zfcbxoadmgy
uuuuuudvdloxuqoak

uuuuuu“Budvubfpocrbtdrbfturqou.ba.svcrdf.ocunqb.qudrrofxoxurqouxodrquzi
uuuuuurqougdrouCbau.qdagocuMdcjoapbggo,”ucdbxuqoku“Vyuiabofxuqoao,uXak
uuuuuuNdrczf,uqdcubfizavoxuvouziunqdruyzsuqdpou.zvvsfb.drox,udfxudgcz
uuuuuuziunqdruyzsuqdpounbrqqogxubfu.zffo.rbzfunbrqurqdruvdrroak”

uuuuuu“NqdruqdpouBunbrqqogx?”ucqoudcjoxuxoibdfrgyk

uuuuuu“Yzsuqdpou.zfioccoxurqdruyzsudcjoxuCbau.qdagocurzumoudrurqoutdro
uuuuuudrurofuz’.gz.jkuNoujfznurqdrurqdrundcurqou gd.oudfxuqzsauziuqbc
uuuuuuxodrqkuYzsuqdpounbrqqogxunqdrurqou.zffo.rbzfubcumornoofurqoco
uuuuuuopofrck”

uuuuuu“Rqoaoubcufzu.zffo.rbzfk”

uuuuuu“Bfurqdru.dcourqou.zbf.bxof.ouvscrubfxooxumoudfuohradzaxbfday
uuuuuuzfokuMsruBurqbfjurqdrunoucqdggucs..ooxubfuocrdmgbcqbftud
uuuuuu.zffo.rbzf,udiroaudggkuBunbcqurzumou oaio.rgyuiadfjunbrquyzs,
uuuuuuVackuGyzfckuNouaotdaxurqbcu.dcoudcuzfouziuvsaxoa,udfxurqo
uuuuuuopbxof.ouvdyubv gb.droufzruzfgyuyzsauiabofxuVakuCrd gorzfumsruqbc
uuuuuunbioudcunoggk”

uuuuuuRqougdxyuc adftuiazvuqoau.qdbak

uuuuuu“Qbcunbio!”ucqou.aboxk

uuuuuu“Rqouid.rubcufzugzftoauduco.aorkuRqou oaczfunqzuqdcu dccoxuiza
uuuuuuqbcucbcroaubcuaodggyuqbcunbiok”

uuuuuuVackuGyzfcuqdxuaocsvoxuqoaucodrkuQoauqdfxcunoaoutadc bfturqoudavc
uuuuuuziuqoau.qdba,udfxuBucdnurqdrurqou bfjufdbgcuqdxursafoxunqbrounbrq
uuuuuurqou aoccsaouziuqoautab k

uuuuuu“Qbcunbio!”ucqoucdbxudtdbfku“Qbcunbio!uQoubcufzruduvdaaboxuvdfk”

uuuuuuCqoagz.juQzgvocucqasttoxuqbcucqzsgxoack

uuuuuu“ azpoubrurzuvo!u azpoubrurzuvo!uDfxubiuyzsu.dfuxzucz—!”

uuuuuuRqouiboa.ouigdcquziuqoauoyocucdbxuvzaourqdfudfyunzaxck

uuuuuu“Buqdpou.zvou ao daoxurzuxzucz,”ucdbxuQzgvoc,uxadnbftucopoadg
uuuuuu d oacuiazvuqbcu z.jorku“Qoaoubcudu qzrztad quziurqou.zs gourdjof
uuuuuubfuYzajuizsauyodacudtzkuBrubcubfxzacoxu‘VakudfxuVackuPdfxogosa,’
uuuuuumsruyzsunbgguqdpoufzuxbiib.sgryubfuao.ztfblbftuqbv,udfxuqoaudgcz,
uuuuuubiuyzsujfznuqoaumyucbtqrkuQoaoudaourqaoounabrrofuxoc.ab rbzfcumy
uuuuuurascrnzarqyunbrfoccocuziuVakudfxuVackuPdfxogosa,unqzudrurqdrurbvo
uuuuuujo ruCrkuZgbpoa’cu abpdrouc.qzzgkuAodxurqovudfxucooubiuyzsu.df
uuuuuuxzsmrurqoubxofrbryuziurqocou oz gok”

uuuuuuCqoutgdf.oxudrurqov,udfxurqofugzzjoxus udruscunbrqurqoucor,uabtbx
uuuuuuid.ouziuduxoc oadrounzvdfk

uuuuuu“VakuQzgvoc,”ucqoucdbx,u“rqbcuvdfuqdxuziioaoxuvouvdaabdtouzf
uuuuuu.zfxbrbzfurqdruBu.zsgxutoruduxbpza.ouiazvuvyuqscmdfxkuQouqdcugbox
uuuuuurzuvo,urqoupbggdbf,ubfuopoayu.zf.obpdmgoundykuFzruzfounzaxuzi
uuuuuurasrquqdcuqouopoaurzgxuvokuDfxunqy—nqy?uBubvdtbfoxurqdrudggundc
uuuuuuizauvyuznfucdjokuMsrufznuBucoourqdruBundcufopoaudfyrqbftumsrud
uuuuuurzzgubfuqbcuqdfxckuNqyucqzsgxuBu aocoapouidbrqunbrquqbvunqzufopoa
uuuuuujo rudfyunbrquvo?uNqyucqzsgxuBurayurzucqbogxuqbvuiazvurqo
uuuuuu.zfcoesof.ocuziuqbcuznfunb.joxud.rc?uDcjuvounqdruyzsugbjo,udfx
uuuuuurqoaoubcufzrqbftunqb.quBucqdgguqzgxumd.jkuZfourqbftuBucnodaurz
uuuuuuyzs,udfxurqdrubcurqdrunqofuBunazrourqougorroauBufopoauxaodvoxuzi
uuuuuudfyuqdavurzurqouzgxutofrgovdf,unqzuqdxumoofuvyujbfxocruiabofxk”

uuuuuu“Buofrbaogyumogbopouyzs,uvdxdv,”ucdbxuCqoagz.juQzgvocku“Rqo
uuuuuuao.brdguziurqocouopofrcuvscrumoupoayu dbfisgurzuyzs,udfxu oaqd c
uuuuuubrunbgguvdjoubruodcboaubiuBurogguyzsunqdruz..saaox,udfxuyzsu.df
uuuuuu.qo.juvoubiuBuvdjoudfyuvdroabdguvbcrdjokuRqoucofxbftuziurqbc
uuuuuugorroaundcucsttocroxurzuyzsumyuCrd gorzf?”

uuuuuu“Qouxb.rdroxubrk”

uuuuuu“Bu aocsvourqdrurqouaodczfuqoutdpoundcurqdruyzsunzsgxuao.obpo
uuuuuuqog uiazvuCbau.qdagocuizaurqougotdguoh ofcocu.zffo.roxunbrquyzsa
uuuuuuxbpza.o?”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgyk”

uuuuuu“Dfxurqofudiroauyzsuqdxucofrurqougorroauqouxbccsdxoxuyzsuiazv
uuuuuujoo bfturqoud  zbfrvofr?”

uuuuuu“Qourzgxuvourqdrubrunzsgxuqsaruqbcucogi-aoc o.rurqdrudfyuzrqoa
uuuuuuvdfucqzsgxuibfxurqouvzfoyuizaucs.qudfuzmwo.r,udfxurqdrurqzstquqo
uuuuuundcudu zzauvdfuqbvcogiuqounzsgxuxopzrouqbcugdcru offyurzuaovzpbft
uuuuuurqouzmcrd.gocunqb.quxbpbxoxusck”

uuuuuu“Qoud  odacurzumoudupoayu.zfcbcrofru.qdad.roakuDfxurqofuyzsuqodax
uuuuuufzrqbftusfrbguyzsuaodxurqouao zarcuziurqouxodrqubfurqou d oa?”

uuuuuu“Fzk”

uuuuuu“Dfxuqouvdxouyzsucnodaurzucdyufzrqbftudmzsruyzsaud  zbfrvofrunbrq
uuuuuuCbau.qdagoc?”

uuuuuu“QouxbxkuQoucdbxurqdrurqouxodrqundcudupoayuvycroabzscuzfo,udfx
uuuuuurqdruBucqzsgxu.oardbfgyumoucsc o.roxubiurqouid.rcu.dvouzsrkuQo
uuuuuuiabtqrofoxuvoubfrzuaovdbfbftucbgofrk”

uuuuuu“EsbrouczkuMsruyzsuqdxuyzsaucsc b.bzfc?”

uuuuuuCqouqocbrdroxudfxugzzjoxuxznfk

uuuuuu“Bujfonuqbv,”ucqoucdbxku“Msrubiuqouqdxujo ruidbrqunbrquvouB
uuuuuucqzsgxudgndycuqdpouxzfouczunbrquqbvk”

uuuuuu“Burqbfjurqdruzfurqounqzgouyzsuqdpouqdxuduizarsfdrouoc.d o,”ucdbx
uuuuuuCqoagz.juQzgvocku“Yzsuqdpouqdxuqbvubfuyzsau znoaudfxuqoujfonubr,
uuuuuudfxuyoruyzsudaoudgbpokuYzsuqdpoumoofundgjbftuizauczvouvzfrqcupoay
uuuuuufodaurzurqouoxtouziudu ao.b b.okuNouvscrunbcquyzsutzzx-vzafbft
uuuuuufzn,uVackuGyzfc,udfxubrubcu azmdmgourqdruyzsunbggupoayucqzargy
uuuuuuqodauiazvuscudtdbfk”

uuuuuu“Zsau.dcoumo.zvocuazsfxoxuzii,udfxuxbiib.sgryudiroauxbiib.sgry
uuuuuurqbfcudndyubfuiazfruziusc,”ucdbxuQzgvocudcunoucrzzxundbrbftuiza
uuuuuurqoudaabpdguziurqouoh aoccuiazvurznfku“Bucqdgguczzfumoubfurqo
uuuuuu zcbrbzfuziumobftudmgourzu srubfrzuducbftgou.zffo.roxufdaadrbpo
uuuuuuzfouziurqouvzcrucbftsgdaudfxucofcdrbzfdgu.abvocuziuvzxoafurbvock
uuuuuuCrsxofrcuziu.abvbfzgztyunbgguaovovmoaurqoudfdgztzscubf.bxofrcubf
uuuuuuTzxfz,ubfuGbrrgouAsccbd,ubfurqouyodau’66,udfxuziu.zsacourqoaoudao
uuuuuurqouDfxoaczfuvsaxoacubfuFzarqu.dazgbfd,umsrurqbcu.dcou zccoccoc
uuuuuuczvouiodrsaocunqb.qudaouofrbaogyubrcuznfkuOpofufznunouqdpoufz
uuuuuu.godau.dcoudtdbfcrurqbcupoayunbgyuvdfkuMsruBucqdggumoupoayuvs.q
uuuuuucsa abcoxubiubrubcufzru.godauofzstqumoizaounoutzurzumoxurqbc
uuuuuufbtqrk”

uuuuuuRqouGzfxzfuoh aoccu.dvouazdabftubfrzurqoucrdrbzf,udfxuducvdgg,
uuuuuunbayumsggxztuziuduvdfuqdxuc asftuiazvuduibacr-.gdccu.daabdtokuNo
uuuuuudggurqaooucqzzjuqdfxc,udfxuBucdnudruzf.ouiazvurqouaopoaofrbdgundy
uuuuuubfunqb.quGocradxoutdloxudruvyu.zv dfbzfurqdruqouqdxugodafoxud
uuuuuutzzxuxodgucbf.ourqouxdycunqofurqoyuqdxuibacrunzajoxurztorqoakuB
uuuuuu.zsgxunogguaovovmoaurqouc.zafunqb.qurqourqozabocuziurqouaodczfoa
uuuuuuscoxurqofurzuoh.broubfurqou ad.rb.dguvdfk

uuuuuu“Dfyrqbftutzzx?”uqoudcjoxk

uuuuuu“Rqoumbttocrurqbftuizauyodac,”ucdbxuQzgvocku“Nouqdpournzuqzsac
uuuuuumoizaounoufooxurqbfjuziucrdarbftkuBurqbfjunouvbtqruov gzyubrubf
uuuuuutorrbftuczvouxbffoaudfxurqof,uGocradxo,unounbggurdjourqouGzfxzf
uuuuuuiztuzsruziuyzsaurqazdrumyutbpbftuyzsudumaodrquziurqou saoufbtqr
uuuuuudbauziuXdarvzzakuFopoaumoofurqoao?uDq,unogg,uBuxzf’rucs  zcouyzs
uuuuuunbgguizatoruyzsauibacrupbcbrk”



.qd roau14k

RqouQzsfxuziurqouMdcjoapbggoc

uuuuuuZfouziuCqoagz.juQzgvoc’cuxoio.rc—bi,ubfxoox,uzfouvdyu.dggubrud
uuuuuuxoio.r—ndcurqdruqoundcuoh.ooxbftgyugzdrqurzu.zvvsfb.drouqbcuisgg
uuuuuu gdfcurzudfyuzrqoau oaczfusfrbgurqoubfcrdfruziurqobauisgibgvofrk
uuuuuu dargyubru.dvoufzuxzsmruiazvuqbcuznfuvdcroaisgufdrsao,unqb.q
uuuuuugzpoxurzuxzvbfdroudfxucsa abcourqzcounqzunoaoudazsfxuqbvku dargy
uuuuuudgczuiazvuqbcu azioccbzfdgu.dsrbzf,unqb.qusatoxuqbvufopoaurzurdjo
uuuuuudfyu.qdf.ockuRqouaocsgr,uqznopoa,undcupoayuraybftuizaurqzcounqz
uuuuuunoaoud.rbftudcuqbcudtofrcudfxudccbcrdfrckuBuqdxuzirofucsiioaox
uuuuuusfxoaubr,umsrufopoauvzaouczurqdfuxsabfturqdrugzftuxabpoubfurqo
uuuuuuxdajfocckuRqoutaodruzaxodgundcubfuiazfruziusc;udrugdcrunounoao
uuuuuudmzsrurzuvdjouzsauibfdguoiizar,udfxuyoruQzgvocuqdxucdbxufzrqbft,
uuuuuudfxuBu.zsgxuzfgyucsavbcounqdruqbcu.zsacouziud.rbzfunzsgxumokuVy
uuuuuufoapocurqabggoxunbrqudfrb.b drbzfunqofudrugdcrurqou.zgxunbfxus zf
uuuuuuzsauid.ocudfxurqouxdaj,upzbxuc d.ocuzfuobrqoaucbxouziurqoufdaazn
uuuuuuazdxurzgxuvourqdrunounoaoumd.jus zfurqouvzzauzf.oudtdbfkuOpoay
uuuuuucrabxouziurqouqzacocudfxuopoayursafuziurqounqoogcundcurdjbftusc
uuuuuufodaoaurzuzsaucs aovoudxpofrsaok

uuuuuuZsau.zfpoacdrbzfundcuqdv oaoxumyurqou aocof.ouziurqouxabpoauzi
uuuuuurqouqbaoxundtzforro,uczurqdrunounoaouiza.oxurzurdgjuziurabpbdg
uuuuuuvdrroacunqofuzsaufoapocunoaourofcounbrquovzrbzfudfxudfrb.b drbzfk
uuuuuuBrundcuduaogboiurzuvo,udiroaurqdrusffdrsadguaocradbfr,unqofunoudr
uuuuuugdcru dccoxuIadfjgdfx’cuqzscoudfxujfonurqdrunounoaouxadnbftufoda
uuuuuurzurqouQdggudfxurzurqouc.ofouziud.rbzfkuNouxbxufzruxabpous urz
uuuuuurqouxzzaumsrutzruxznfufodaurqoutdrouziurqoudpofsokuRqoundtzforro
uuuuuundcu dbxuziiudfxuzaxoaoxurzuaorsafurzu.zzvmouRad.oyuizarqnbrq,
uuuuuunqbgounoucrdaroxurzundgjurzuVoaab bruQzscok

uuuuuu“Daouyzsudavox,uGocradxo?”

uuuuuuRqougbrrgouxoro.rbpoucvbgoxku“DcugzftudcuBuqdpouvyurazscoacuB
uuuuuuqdpouduqb - z.jor,udfxudcugzftudcuBuqdpouvyuqb - z.joruBuqdpo
uuuuuuczvorqbftubfubrk”

uuuuuu“Tzzx!uVyuiabofxudfxuBudaoudgczuaodxyuizauovoatof.bock”

uuuuuu“Yzs’aouvbtqryu.gzcoudmzsrurqbcudiidba,uVakuQzgvockuNqdr’curqo
uuuuuutdvoufzn?”

uuuuuu“Dundbrbftutdvok”

uuuuuu“Vyunzax,ubruxzocufzrucoovudupoayu.qooaisgu gd.o,”ucdbxurqo
uuuuuuxoro.rbpounbrquducqbpoa,utgdf.bftuazsfxuqbvudrurqoutgzzvyucgz oc
uuuuuuziurqouqbggudfxudrurqouqstougdjouziuiztunqb.qugdyuzpoaurqo
uuuuuuTabv ofuVbaoku“Bucoourqougbtqrcuziuduqzscoudqodxuziusck”

uuuuuu“RqdrubcuVoaab bruQzscoudfxurqouofxuziuzsauwzsafoykuBuvscr
uuuuuuaoesocruyzsurzundgjuzfurb rzoudfxufzrurzurdgjudmzpoudunqbc oak”

uuuuuuNouvzpoxu.dsrbzscgyudgzfturqourad.judcubiunounoaoumzsfxuizaurqo
uuuuuuqzsco,umsruQzgvocuqdgroxuscunqofunounoaoudmzsrurnzuqsfxaoxuydaxc
uuuuuuiazvubrk

uuuuuu“Rqbcunbgguxz,”ucdbxuqoku“Rqocouaz.jcus zfurqouabtqruvdjoudf
uuuuuudxvbadmgouc.aoofk”

uuuuuu“Noudaourzundbruqoao?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,unoucqdgguvdjouzsaugbrrgoudvmscquqoaokuTorubfrzurqbcuqzggzn,
uuuuuuGocradxokuYzsuqdpoumoofubfcbxourqouqzsco,uqdpouyzsufzr,uNdrczf?
uuuuuu.dfuyzsuroggurqou zcbrbzfuziurqouazzvc?uNqdrudaourqzcougdrrb.ox
uuuuuunbfxzncudrurqbcuofx?”

uuuuuu“Burqbfjurqoyudaourqoujbr.qofunbfxznck”

uuuuuu“Dfxurqouzfoumoyzfx,unqb.qucqbfocuczumabtqrgy?”

uuuuuu“Rqdrubcu.oardbfgyurqouxbfbft-azzvk”

uuuuuu“Rqoumgbfxcudaous kuYzsujfznurqougbouziurqougdfxumocrku.aoo 
uuuuuuizandaxuesborgyudfxucoounqdrurqoyudaouxzbft—msruizauqodpof’cucdjo
uuuuuuxzf’rugorurqovujfznurqdrurqoyudaoundr.qox!”

uuuuuuBurb rzoxuxznfurqou drqudfxucrzz oxumoqbfxurqougznundggunqb.q
uuuuuucsaazsfxoxurqoucrsfroxuza.qdaxku.aoo bftubfubrcucqdxznuBuaod.qox
uuuuuudu zbfrunqof.ouBu.zsgxugzzjucradbtqrurqazstqurqousf.sardbfox
uuuuuunbfxznk

uuuuuuRqoaounoaouzfgyurnzuvofubfurqouazzv,uCbauQofayudfxuCrd gorzfk
uuuuuuRqoyucdrunbrqurqobau azibgocurzndaxcuvouzfuobrqoaucbxouziurqo
uuuuuuazsfxurdmgokuMzrquziurqovunoaoucvzjbftu.btdac,udfxu.ziiooudfx
uuuuuunbfounoaoubfuiazfruziurqovkuCrd gorzfundcurdgjbftunbrqudfbvdrbzf,
uuuuuumsrurqoumdazforugzzjoxu dgoudfxuxbcradbrku oaqd curqourqzstqruzi
uuuuuurqdrugzfogyundgjud.azccurqoubgg-zvofoxuvzzaundcunobtqbftuqodpbgy
uuuuuus zfuqbcuvbfxk

uuuuuuDcuBundr.qoxurqovuCrd gorzfuazcoudfxugoirurqouazzv,unqbgouCba
uuuuuuQofayuibggoxuqbcutgdccudtdbfudfxugodfoxumd.jubfuqbcu.qdba,
uuuuuu siibftudruqbcu.btdakuBuqodaxurqou.aodjuziuduxzzaudfxurqou.abc 
uuuuuuczsfxuziumzzrcus zfutadpogkuRqoucro cu dccoxudgzfturqou drquzf
uuuuuurqouzrqoaucbxouziurqoundggusfxoaunqb.quBu.azs.qoxkuGzzjbftuzpoa,
uuuuuuBucdnurqoufdrsadgbcru dscoudrurqouxzzauziudfuzsr-qzscoubfurqo
uuuuuu.zafoauziurqouza.qdaxkuDujoyursafoxubfudugz.j,udfxudcuqou dccox
uuuuuubfurqoaoundcudu.sabzscuc.siigbftufzbcouiazvunbrqbfkuQoundcuzfgyud
uuuuuuvbfsrouzauczubfcbxo,udfxurqofuBuqodaxurqoujoyursafuzf.ouvzaoudfx
uuuuuuqou dccoxuvoudfxuaoofroaoxurqouqzscokuBucdnuqbvuaowzbfuqbcutsocr,
uuuuuudfxuBu.ao ruesborgyumd.jurzunqoaouvyu.zv dfbzfcunoaoundbrbfturz
uuuuuuroggurqovunqdruBuqdxucoofk

uuuuuu“Yzsucdy,uNdrczf,urqdrurqougdxyubcufzrurqoao?”uQzgvocudcjoxunqof
uuuuuuBuqdxuibfbcqoxuvyuao zark

uuuuuu“Fzk”

uuuuuu“Nqoaou.dfucqoumo,urqof,ucbf.ourqoaoubcufzugbtqrubfudfyuzrqoa
uuuuuuazzvuoh.o rurqoujbr.qof?”

uuuuuu“Bu.dffzrurqbfjunqoaoucqoubck”

uuuuuuBuqdpoucdbxurqdruzpoaurqoutaodruTabv ofuVbaourqoaouqsftuduxofco,
uuuuuunqbrouiztkuBrundcuxabirbftucgzngyubfuzsauxbao.rbzfudfxumdfjox
uuuuuubrcogius ugbjoudundgguzfurqdrucbxouziusc,ugznumsrurqb.judfxunogg
uuuuuuxoibfoxkuRqouvzzfucqzfouzfubr,udfxubrugzzjoxugbjoudutaodr
uuuuuucqbvvoabftub.o-ibogx,unbrqurqouqodxcuziurqouxbcrdfrurzacudcuaz.jc
uuuuuumzafous zfubrcucsaid.okuQzgvoc’cuid.oundcursafoxurzndaxcubr,udfx
uuuuuuqouvsrroaoxubv drbofrgyudcuqoundr.qoxubrcucgsttbcquxabirk

uuuuuu“Br’cuvzpbfturzndaxcusc,uNdrczfk”

uuuuuu“Bcurqdrucoabzsc?”

uuuuuu“Poayucoabzsc,ubfxoox—rqouzfourqbftus zfuodarqunqb.qu.zsgxuqdpo
uuuuuuxbcdaadftoxuvyu gdfckuQou.df’rumoupoayugzft,ufznkuBrubcudgaodxy
uuuuuurofuz’.gz.jkuZsaucs..occudfxuopofuqbcugbiouvdyuxo ofxus zfuqbc
uuuuuu.zvbftuzsrumoizaourqouiztubcuzpoaurqou drqk”

uuuuuuRqoufbtqrundcu.godaudfxuibfoudmzpousckuRqoucrdacucqzfou.zgxudfx
uuuuuumabtqr,unqbgouduqdgi-vzzfumdrqoxurqounqzgouc.ofoubfuduczir,
uuuuuusf.oardbfugbtqrkuMoizaouscugdyurqouxdajumsgjuziurqouqzsco,ubrc
uuuuuucoaadroxuazziudfxumabcrgbftu.qbvfoycuqdaxuzsrgbfoxudtdbfcrurqo
uuuuuucbgpoa-c dftgoxucjykuMazdxumdacuziutzgxofugbtqruiazvurqougznoa
uuuuuunbfxzncucraor.qoxud.azccurqouza.qdaxudfxurqouvzzakuZfouziurqov
uuuuuundcucsxxofgyucqsruziikuRqoucoapdfrcuqdxugoirurqoujbr.qofkuRqoao
uuuuuuzfgyuaovdbfoxurqougdv ubfurqouxbfbft-azzvunqoaourqournzuvof,urqo
uuuuuuvsaxoazscuqzcrudfxurqousf.zfc.bzscutsocr,ucrbggu.qdrroxuzpoa
uuuuuurqobau.btdack

uuuuuuOpoayuvbfsrourqdrunqbrounzzggyu gdbfunqb.qu.zpoaoxuzfo-qdgiuzi
uuuuuurqouvzzaundcuxabirbftu.gzcoaudfxu.gzcoaurzurqouqzscokuDgaodxyurqo
uuuuuuibacrurqbfunbc cuziubrunoaou.sagbftud.azccurqoutzgxofucesdaouzi
uuuuuurqougbtqroxunbfxznkuRqouidarqoaundgguziurqouza.qdaxundcudgaodxy
uuuuuubfpbcbmgo,udfxurqouraoocunoaoucrdfxbftuzsruziuducnbaguziunqbro
uuuuuupd zsakuDcunoundr.qoxubrurqouizt-naodrqcu.dvou.adngbftuazsfxumzrq
uuuuuu.zafoacuziurqouqzscoudfxuazggoxucgzngyubfrzuzfouxofcoumdfjuzf
uuuuuunqb.qurqous  oauigzzaudfxurqouazziuigzdroxugbjouducradftoucqb 
uuuuuus zfuducqdxznyucodkuQzgvocucras.juqbcuqdfxu dccbzfdrogyus zfurqo
uuuuuuaz.jubfuiazfruziuscudfxucrdv oxuqbcuioorubfuqbcubv drbof.ok

uuuuuu“Biuqoubcf’ruzsrubfuduesdaroauziudfuqzsaurqou drqunbggumo
uuuuuu.zpoaoxkuBfuqdgiudfuqzsaunounzf’rumoudmgourzucoouzsauqdfxcubf
uuuuuuiazfruziusck”

uuuuuu“Cqdggunouvzpouidarqoaumd.jus zfuqbtqoautazsfx?”

uuuuuu“Yoc,uBurqbfjubrunzsgxumoudcunoggk”

uuuuuuCzudcurqouizt-mdfjuigznoxuzfndaxunouioggumd.jumoizaoubrusfrbguno
uuuuuunoaouqdgiuduvbgouiazvurqouqzsco,udfxucrbggurqdruxofcounqbroucod,
uuuuuunbrqurqouvzzfucbgpoabftubrcus  oauoxto,ucno rucgzngyudfx
uuuuuubfohzadmgyuzfk

uuuuuu“Noudaoutzbfturzzuida,”ucdbxuQzgvocku“Nouxdaoufzrurdjourqou.qdf.o
uuuuuuziuqbcumobftuzpoardjofumoizaouqou.dfuaod.qusckuDrudggu.zcrcuno
uuuuuuvscruqzgxuzsautazsfxunqoaounoudaok”uQouxaz  oxuzfuqbcujfoocudfx
uuuuuu.gd  oxuqbcuodaurzurqoutazsfxku“RqdfjuTzx,uBurqbfjurqdruBuqoda
uuuuuuqbvu.zvbftk”

uuuuuuDuczsfxuziuesb.jucro cumazjourqoucbgof.ouziurqouvzzaku.azs.qbft
uuuuuudvzfturqoucrzfocunoucrdaoxubfrofrgyudrurqoucbgpoa-rb  oxumdfjubf
uuuuuuiazfruziusckuRqoucro cutaonugzsxoa,udfxurqazstqurqouizt,udc
uuuuuurqazstqudu.sardbf,urqoaoucro  oxurqouvdfunqzvunounoaoudndbrbftk
uuuuuuQougzzjoxuazsfxuqbvubfucsa abcoudcuqouovoatoxubfrzurqou.goda,
uuuuuucrdagbrufbtqrkuRqofuqou.dvoucnbirgyudgzfturqou drq,u dccoxu.gzco
uuuuuurzunqoaounougdy,udfxunofruzfus urqougzftucgz oumoqbfxusckuDcuqo
uuuuuundgjoxuqoutgdf.oxu.zfrbfsdggyuzpoauobrqoaucqzsgxoa,ugbjouduvdf
uuuuuunqzubcubggudruodcok

uuuuuu“Qbcr!”u.aboxuQzgvoc,udfxuBuqodaxurqoucqda u.gb.juziudu.z.jbft
uuuuuu bcrzgku“Gzzjuzsr!uBr’cu.zvbft!”

uuuuuuRqoaoundcudurqbf,u.abc ,u.zfrbfszscu drroauiazvuczvonqoaoubfurqo
uuuuuuqodaruziurqdru.adngbftumdfjkuRqou.gzsxundcunbrqbfuibiryuydaxcuzi
uuuuuunqoaounougdy,udfxunoutgdaoxudrubr,udggurqaoo,usf.oardbfunqdr
uuuuuuqzaazaundcudmzsrurzumaodjuiazvurqouqodaruziubrkuBundcudruQzgvoc’c
uuuuuuogmzn,udfxuButgdf.oxuizaudfubfcrdfrudruqbcuid.okuBrundcu dgoudfx
uuuuuuohsgrdfr,uqbcuoyocucqbfbftumabtqrgyubfurqouvzzfgbtqrkuMsr
uuuuuucsxxofgyurqoyucrdaroxuizandaxubfuduabtbx,uibhoxucrdao,udfxuqbc
uuuuuugb cu daroxubfudvdlovofrkuDrurqoucdvoubfcrdfruGocradxoutdpoud
uuuuuuyogguziuroaazaudfxurqaonuqbvcogiuid.ouxznfndaxus zfurqoutazsfxkuB
uuuuuuc adfturzuvyuioor,uvyubfoaruqdfxutadc bftuvyu bcrzg,uvyuvbfx
uuuuuu dadgyloxumyurqouxaodxisgucqd ounqb.quqdxuc asftuzsrus zfuscuiazv
uuuuuurqoucqdxzncuziurqouiztkuDuqzsfxubrundc,udfuofzavzscu.zdg-mgd.j
uuuuuuqzsfx,umsrufzrucs.quduqzsfxudcuvzardguoyocuqdpouopoaucoofkuIbao
uuuuuumsacruiazvubrcuz ofuvzsrq,ubrcuoyocutgznoxunbrquducvzsgxoabft
uuuuuutgdao,ubrcuvsllgoudfxuqd.jgocudfxuxongd unoaouzsrgbfoxubf
uuuuuuigb.joabftuigdvokuFopoaubfurqouxogbabzscuxaodvuziuduxbczaxoaox
uuuuuumadbfu.zsgxudfyrqbftuvzaoucdpdto,uvzaoud  dggbft,uvzaouqoggbcqumo
uuuuuu.zf.obpoxurqdfurqdruxdajuizavudfxucdpdtouid.ounqb.qumazjous zfusc
uuuuuuzsruziurqoundgguziuiztk

uuuuuuNbrqugzftumzsfxcurqouqstoumgd.ju.aodrsaoundcugod bftuxznfurqo
uuuuuurad.j,uizggznbftuqdaxus zfurqouizzrcro cuziuzsauiabofxkuCz
uuuuuu dadgyloxunoaounoumyurqoud  dabrbzfurqdrunoudggznoxuqbvurzu dcc
uuuuuumoizaounouqdxuao.zpoaoxuzsaufoapokuRqofuQzgvocudfxuBumzrquibaox
uuuuuurztorqoa,udfxurqou.aodrsaoutdpouduqbxozscuqzng,unqb.qucqznoxurqdr
uuuuuuzfoudrugodcruqdxuqbruqbvkuQouxbxufzru dsco,uqznopoa,umsrumzsfxox
uuuuuuzfndaxkuIdaudndyuzfurqou drqunoucdnuCbauQofayugzzjbftumd.j,uqbc
uuuuuuid.ounqbroubfurqouvzzfgbtqr,uqbcuqdfxcuadbcoxubfuqzaaza,utgdabft
uuuuuuqog goccgyudrurqouiabtqrisgurqbftunqb.qundcuqsfrbftuqbvuxznfkuMsr
uuuuuurqdru.ayuziu dbfuiazvurqouqzsfxuqdxumgznfudgguzsauiodacurzurqo
uuuuuunbfxckuBiuqoundcupsgfoadmgouqoundcuvzardg,udfxubiunou.zsgxunzsfx
uuuuuuqbvunou.zsgxujbgguqbvkuFopoauqdpouBucoofuduvdfuasfudcuQzgvocuadf
uuuuuurqdrufbtqrkuBudvuao.jzfoxuigooruziuizzr,umsruqouzsr d.oxuvoudc
uuuuuuvs.qudcuBuzsr d.oxurqougbrrgou azioccbzfdgkuBfuiazfruziuscudcuno
uuuuuuigonus urqourad.junouqodaxuc.aodvudiroauc.aodvuiazvuCbauQofayudfx
uuuuuurqouxoo uazdauziurqouqzsfxkuBundcubfurbvourzucoourqoumodcruc abft
uuuuuus zfubrcupb.rbv,uqsaguqbvurzurqoutazsfx,udfxunzaayudruqbcurqazdrk
uuuuuuMsrurqoufohrubfcrdfruQzgvocuqdxuov rboxuibpoumdaaogcuziuqbc
uuuuuuaopzgpoaubfrzurqou.aodrsao’cuigdfjkuNbrqudugdcruqznguziudtzfyudfx
uuuuuudupb.bzscucfd ubfurqoudba,ubruazggoxus zfubrcumd.j,uizsauioor
uuuuuu dnbftuisabzscgy,udfxurqofuioggugbv us zfubrcucbxokuBucrzz ox,
uuuuuu dfrbft,udfxu aoccoxuvyu bcrzgurzurqouxaodxisg,ucqbvvoabftuqodx,
uuuuuumsrubrundcuscogoccurzu aoccurqourabttoakuRqoutbdfruqzsfxundc
uuuuuuxodxk

uuuuuuCbauQofayugdyubfcofcbmgounqoaouqouqdxuidggofkuNourzaoudndyuqbc
uuuuuu.zggda,udfxuQzgvocumaodrqoxudu adyoauziutadrbrsxounqofunoucdn
uuuuuurqdrurqoaoundcufzucbtfuziudunzsfxudfxurqdrurqouaoc.souqdxumoofubf
uuuuuurbvokuDgaodxyuzsauiabofx’cuoyogbxcucqbpoaoxudfxuqouvdxouduioomgo
uuuuuuoiizarurzuvzpokuGocradxourqascruqbcumadfxy-igdcjumornoofurqo
uuuuuumdazfor’curoorq,udfxurnzuiabtqrofoxuoyocunoaougzzjbftus udrusck

uuuuuu“VyuTzx!”uqounqbc oaoxku“Nqdrundcubr?uNqdr,ubfuqodpof’cufdvo,undc
uuuuuubr?”

uuuuuu“Br’cuxodx,unqdropoaubrubc,”ucdbxuQzgvocku“No’pougdbxurqouidvbgy
uuuuuutqzcruzf.oudfxuizaopoak”

uuuuuuBfuvoaoucbloudfxucraoftrqubrundcuduroaabmgou.aodrsaounqb.qundc
uuuuuugybftucraor.qoxumoizaousckuBrundcufzrudu saoumgzzxqzsfxudfxubr
uuuuuundcufzrudu saouvdcrbii;umsrubrud  odaoxurzumoudu.zvmbfdrbzfuzi
uuuuuurqournz—tdsfr,ucdpdto,udfxudcugdatoudcuducvdggugbzfocckuOpofufzn
uuuuuubfurqoucrbggfoccuziuxodrq,urqouqstouwdncucoovoxurzumouxab  bft
uuuuuunbrqudumgsbcquigdvoudfxurqoucvdgg,uxoo -cor,u.asoguoyocunoao
uuuuuuabftoxunbrquibaokuBu gd.oxuvyuqdfxus zfurqoutgznbftuvsllgo,udfx
uuuuuudcuBuqogxurqovus uvyuznfuibftoacucvzsgxoaoxudfxutgodvoxubfurqo
uuuuuuxdajfocck

uuuuuu“ qzc qzasc,”uBucdbxk

uuuuuu“Du.sffbftu ao dadrbzfuziubr,”ucdbxuQzgvoc,ucfbiibftudrurqouxodx
uuuuuudfbvdgku“Rqoaoubcufzucvoggunqb.quvbtqruqdpoubfroaioaoxunbrquqbc
uuuuuu znoauziuc.ofrkuNouznouyzsuduxoo ud zgzty,uCbauQofay,uizauqdpbft
uuuuuuoh zcoxuyzsurzurqbcuiabtqrkuBundcu ao daoxuizauduqzsfx,umsrufzr
uuuuuuizaucs.qudu.aodrsaoudcurqbckuDfxurqouiztutdpouscugbrrgourbvourz
uuuuuuao.obpouqbvk”

uuuuuu“Yzsuqdpoucdpoxuvyugbiok”

uuuuuu“QdpbftuibacruofxdftoaoxubrkuDaouyzsucrazftuofzstqurzucrdfx?”

uuuuuu“TbpouvoudfzrqoauvzsrqisguziurqdrumadfxyudfxuBucqdggumouaodxyuiza
uuuuuudfyrqbftkuCz!uFzn,ubiuyzsunbgguqog uvous kuNqdruxzuyzsu az zcourz
uuuuuuxz?”

uuuuuu“RzugodpouyzsuqoaokuYzsudaoufzruibruizauisarqoaudxpofrsaoc
uuuuuurzfbtqrkuBiuyzsunbggundbr,uzfouzauzrqoauziuscunbggutzumd.junbrq
uuuuuuyzsurzurqouQdggk”

uuuuuuQouraboxurzucrdttoaurzuqbcuioor;umsruqoundcucrbggutqdcrgyu dgo
uuuuuudfxuraovmgbftubfuopoayugbvmkuNouqog oxuqbvurzuduaz.j,unqoaouqo
uuuuuucdrucqbpoabftunbrquqbcuid.oumsaboxubfuqbcuqdfxck

uuuuuu“Nouvscrugodpouyzsufzn,”ucdbxuQzgvocku“Rqouaocruziuzsaunzajuvscr
uuuuuumouxzfo,udfxuopoayuvzvofrubcuziubv zardf.okuNouqdpouzsau.dco,udfx
uuuuuufznunouzfgyundfruzsauvdfk

uuuuuu“Br’cudurqzscdfxurzuzfoudtdbfcruzsauibfxbftuqbvudrurqouqzsco,”uqo
uuuuuu.zfrbfsoxudcunouaorad.oxuzsaucro cucnbirgyuxznfurqou drqku“Rqzco
uuuuuucqzrcuvscruqdpourzgxuqbvurqdrurqoutdvoundcus k”

uuuuuu“Nounoaouczvouxbcrdf.ouzii,udfxurqbcuiztuvdyuqdpouxodxofoxurqovk”

uuuuuu“Qouizggznoxurqouqzsfxurzu.dgguqbvuzii—ziurqdruyzsuvdyumo
uuuuuu.oardbfkuFz,ufz,uqo’cutzfoumyurqbcurbvo!uMsruno’ggucoda.qurqo
uuuuuuqzscoudfxuvdjoucsaok”

uuuuuuRqouiazfruxzzaundcuz of,uczunouascqoxubfudfxuqsaaboxuiazvuazzvurz
uuuuuuazzvurzurqoudvdlovofruziuduxzxxoabftuzgxuvdfcoapdfr,unqzuvorusc
uuuuuubfurqou dccdtokuRqoaoundcufzugbtqrucdpoubfurqouxbfbft-azzv,umsr
uuuuuuQzgvocu.dstqrus urqougdv udfxugoirufzu.zafoauziurqouqzsco
uuuuuusfoh gzaoxkuFzucbtfu.zsgxunoucoouziurqouvdfunqzvunounoaou.qdcbftk
uuuuuuZfurqous  oauigzza,uqznopoa,uzfouziurqoumoxazzvuxzzacundcugz.joxk

uuuuuu“Rqoao’cuczvozfoubfuqoao,”u.aboxuGocradxoku“Bu.dfuqodaud
uuuuuuvzpovofrkuZ ofurqbcuxzza!”

uuuuuuDuidbfruvzdfbftudfxuascrgbftu.dvouiazvunbrqbfkuQzgvocucras.jurqo
uuuuuuxzzauwscruzpoaurqougz.junbrqurqouigdruziuqbcuizzrudfxubruigon
uuuuuuz ofku bcrzgubfuqdfx,unoudggurqaoouascqoxubfrzurqouazzvk

uuuuuuMsrurqoaoundcufzucbtfunbrqbfubruziurqdruxoc oadroudfxuxoibdfr
uuuuuupbggdbfunqzvunouoh o.roxurzucookuBfcrodxunounoaouid.oxumyudf
uuuuuuzmwo.ruczucradftoudfxuczusfoh o.roxurqdrunoucrzzxuizauduvzvofr
uuuuuucrdabftudrubrubfudvdlovofrk

uuuuuuRqouazzvuqdxumoofuidcqbzfoxubfrzuducvdgguvscosv,udfxurqoundggc
uuuuuunoaougbfoxumyudufsvmoauziutgdcc-rz  oxu.dcocuisgguziurqdr
uuuuuu.zggo.rbzfuziumsrroaigbocudfxuvzrqcurqouizavdrbzfuziunqb.quqdx
uuuuuumoofurqouaogdhdrbzfuziurqbcu.zv gohudfxuxdftoazscuvdfkuBfurqo
uuuuuu.ofraouziurqbcuazzvurqoaoundcudfus abtqrumodv,unqb.quqdxumoof
uuuuuu gd.oxudruczvou oabzxudcuducs  zaruizaurqouzgxunzav-odrofumdsgj
uuuuuuziurbvmoaunqb.quc dffoxurqouazzikuRzurqbcu zcruduibtsaoundcurbox,
uuuuuuczucndrqoxudfxuvsiigoxubfurqoucqoorcunqb.quqdxumoofuscoxurz
uuuuuuco.saoubrurqdruzfou.zsgxufzruizaurqouvzvofruroggunqorqoaubrundc
uuuuuurqdruziuduvdfuzaudunzvdfkuZfourznogu dccoxuazsfxurqourqazdrudfx
uuuuuundcuco.saoxudrurqoumd.juziurqou bggdakuDfzrqoau.zpoaoxurqougznoa
uuuuuu daruziurqouid.o,udfxuzpoaubrurnzuxdajuoyoc—oyocuisgguziutaboi
uuuuuudfxucqdvoudfxuduxaodxisguesocrbzfbft—crdaoxumd.judrusckuBfud
uuuuuuvbfsrounouqdxurzafuziiurqoutdt,usfcndrqoxurqoumzfxc,udfxuVack
uuuuuuCrd gorzfucdfjus zfurqouigzzaubfuiazfruziusckuDcuqoaumodsrbisg
uuuuuuqodxuioggus zfuqoau.qocruBucdnurqou.godauaoxunodguziudunqb gdcq
uuuuuud.azccuqoaufo.jk

uuuuuu“Rqoumasro!”u.aboxuQzgvocku“Qoao,uGocradxo,uyzsaumadfxy-mzrrgo!
uuuuuu sruqoaubfurqou.qdba!uCqouqdcuidbfroxuiazvubgg-scdtoudfx
uuuuuuohqdscrbzfk”

uuuuuuCqouz ofoxuqoauoyocudtdbfk

uuuuuu“Bcuqoucdio?”ucqoudcjoxku“Qdcuqouoc.d ox?”

uuuuuu“Qou.dffzruoc.d ousc,uvdxdvk”

uuuuuu“Fz,ufz,uBuxbxufzruvodfuvyuqscmdfxkuCbauQofay?uBcuqoucdio?”

uuuuuu“Yock”

uuuuuu“Dfxurqouqzsfx?”

uuuuuu“Brubcuxodxk”

uuuuuuCqoutdpoudugzftucbtquziucdrbcid.rbzfk

uuuuuu“RqdfjuTzx!uRqdfjuTzx!uZq,urqbcupbggdbf!uCoouqznuqouqdcuraodrox
uuuuuuvo!”uCqoucqzruqoaudavcuzsruiazvuqoaucgoopoc,udfxunoucdnunbrq
uuuuuuqzaazaurqdrurqoyunoaoudgguvzrrgoxunbrqumasbcocku“Msrurqbcubc
uuuuuufzrqbft—fzrqbft!uBrubcuvyuvbfxudfxuczsgurqdruqouqdcurzarsaoxudfx
uuuuuuxoibgoxkuBu.zsgxuofxsaoubrudgg,ubgg-scdto,uczgbrsxo,udugbiouzi
uuuuuuxo.o rbzf,uopoayrqbft,udcugzftudcuBu.zsgxucrbggu.gbfturzurqouqz o
uuuuuurqdruBuqdxuqbcugzpo,umsrufznuBujfznurqdrubfurqbcudgczuBuqdpoumoof
uuuuuuqbcuxs oudfxuqbcurzzgk”uCqoumazjoubfrzu dccbzfdrouczmmbftudcucqo
uuuuuuc zjok

uuuuuu“Yzsumodauqbvufzutzzxunbgg,uvdxdv,”ucdbxuQzgvocku“Rogguscurqof
uuuuuunqoaounoucqdgguibfxuqbvkuBiuyzsuqdpouopoaudbxoxuqbvubfuopbg,uqog 
uuuuuuscufznudfxuczudrzfok”

uuuuuu“Rqoaoubcumsruzfou gd.ounqoaouqou.dfuqdpouigox,”ucqoudfcnoaoxk
uuuuuu“Rqoaoubcudfuzgxurbfuvbfouzfudfubcgdfxubfurqouqodaruziurqouvbaok
uuuuuuBrundcurqoaourqdruqoujo ruqbcuqzsfxudfxurqoaoudgczuqouqdxuvdxo
uuuuuu ao dadrbzfcuczurqdruqouvbtqruqdpouduaoistokuRqdrubcunqoaouqo
uuuuuunzsgxuigyk”

uuuuuuRqouizt-mdfjugdyugbjounqbrounzzgudtdbfcrurqounbfxznkuQzgvocuqogx
uuuuuurqougdv urzndaxcubrk

uuuuuu“Coo,”ucdbxuqoku“Fzuzfou.zsgxuibfxuqbcundyubfrzurqouTabv ofuVbao
uuuuuurzfbtqrk”

uuuuuuCqougdstqoxudfxu.gd  oxuqoauqdfxckuQoauoyocudfxuroorqutgodvox
uuuuuunbrquiboa.ouvoaabvofrk

uuuuuu“Qouvdyuibfxuqbcundyubf,umsrufopoauzsr,”ucqou.aboxku“Qznu.dfuqo
uuuuuucoourqoutsbxbftundfxcurzfbtqr?uNou gdfroxurqovurztorqoa,uqoudfx
uuuuuuB,urzuvdajurqou drqndyurqazstqurqouvbaokuZq,ubiuBu.zsgxuzfgyuqdpo
uuuuuu gs.joxurqovuzsrurzxdykuRqofubfxooxuyzsunzsgxuqdpouqdxuqbvudr
uuuuuuyzsauvoa.y!”

uuuuuuBrundcuopbxofrurzuscurqdrudggu sacsbrundcubfupdbfusfrbgurqouizt
uuuuuuqdxugbiroxkuVodfnqbgounougoiruGocradxoubfu zccoccbzfuziurqouqzsco
uuuuuunqbgouQzgvocudfxuBunofrumd.junbrqurqoumdazforurzuMdcjoapbggo
uuuuuuQdggkuRqoucrzayuziurqouCrd gorzfcu.zsgxufzugzftoaumounbrqqogx
uuuuuuiazvuqbv,umsruqourzzjurqoumgznumadpogyunqofuqougodafoxurqourasrq
uuuuuudmzsrurqounzvdfunqzvuqouqdxugzpoxkuMsrurqoucqz.juziurqoufbtqr’c
uuuuuudxpofrsaocuqdxucqdrroaoxuqbcufoapoc,udfxumoizaouvzafbftuqougdy
uuuuuuxogbabzscubfuduqbtquiopoausfxoaurqou.daouziuXakuVzarbvoakuRqournz
uuuuuuziurqovunoaouxocrbfoxurzuradpogurztorqoauazsfxurqounzagxumoizao
uuuuuuCbauQofayuqdxumo.zvouzf.ouvzaourqouqdgo,uqodaryuvdfurqdruqouqdx
uuuuuumoofumoizaouqoumo.dvouvdcroauziurqdrubgg-zvofoxuocrdrok

uuuuuuDfxufznuBu.zvouad bxgyurzurqou.zf.gscbzfuziurqbcucbftsgda
uuuuuufdaadrbpo,ubfunqb.quBuqdpouraboxurzuvdjourqouaodxoaucqdaourqzco
uuuuuuxdajuiodacudfxupdtsoucsavbcocunqb.qu.gzsxoxuzsaugbpocuczugzftudfx
uuuuuuofxoxubfuczuradtb.uduvdffoakuZfurqouvzafbftudiroaurqouxodrquzi
uuuuuurqouqzsfxurqouiztuqdxugbiroxudfxunounoaoutsbxoxumyuVackuCrd gorzf
uuuuuurzurqou zbfrunqoaourqoyuqdxuizsfxudu drqndyurqazstqurqoumztkuBr
uuuuuuqog oxuscurzuaodgbcourqouqzaazauziurqbcunzvdf’cugbiounqofunoucdn
uuuuuurqouodtoafoccudfxuwzyunbrqunqb.qucqougdbxuscuzfuqoauqscmdfx’c
uuuuuurad.jkuNougoiruqoaucrdfxbftus zfurqourqbfu ofbfcsgduziuibav,
uuuuuu odryuczbgunqb.qurd oaoxuzsrubfrzurqounbxoc aodxumztkuIazvurqo
uuuuuuofxuziubruducvdggundfxu gdfroxuqoaoudfxurqoaoucqznoxunqoaourqo
uuuuuu drqulbtldttoxuiazvursirurzursiruziuascqocudvzfturqzco
uuuuuutaoof-c.svvoxu brcudfxuizsguesdtvbaocunqb.qumdaaoxurqoundyurzurqo
uuuuuucradftoakuAdfjuaooxcudfxugscq,ucgbvyundroa- gdfrcucofrudfuzxzsa
uuuuuuziuxo.dyudfxuduqodpyuvbdcvdrb.upd zsauzfrzuzsauid.oc,unqbgoud
uuuuuuidgcoucro u gsftoxuscuvzaourqdfuzf.ourqbtq-xoo ubfrzurqouxdaj,
uuuuuuesbpoabftuvbao,unqb.qucqzzjuizauydaxcubfuczirusfxsgdrbzfcudazsfx
uuuuuuzsauioorkuBrcurofd.bzscutab u gs.joxudruzsauqoogcudcunoundgjox,
uuuuuudfxunqofunoucdfjubfrzubrubrundcudcubiuczvouvdgbtfdfruqdfxundc
uuuuuursttbftuscuxznfubfrzurqzcouzmc.ofouxo rqc,uczutabvudfxu sa zcoisg
uuuuuundcurqou.gsr.qubfunqb.qubruqogxusckuZf.ouzfgyunoucdnudurad.ourqdr
uuuuuuczvozfouqdxu dccoxurqdru oabgzscundyumoizaousckuIazvudvbxudursir
uuuuuuziu.zrrzfutadccunqb.qumzaoubrus uzsruziurqoucgbvouczvouxdajurqbft
uuuuuundcu azwo.rbftkuQzgvocucdfjurzuqbcundbcrudcuqoucro  oxuiazvurqo
uuuuuu drqurzucobloubr,udfxuqdxunoufzrumoofurqoaourzuxadtuqbvuzsruqo
uuuuuu.zsgxufopoauqdpoucoruqbcuizzrus zfuibavugdfxudtdbfkuQouqogxudf
uuuuuuzgxumgd.jumzzrubfurqoudbaku“Voyoac,uRzazfrz,”undcu abfroxuzfurqo
uuuuuugodrqoaubfcbxok

uuuuuu“Brubcunzarquduvsxumdrq,”ucdbxuqoku“BrubcuzsauiabofxuCbauQofay’c
uuuuuuvbccbftumzzrk”

uuuuuu“RqaznfurqoaoumyuCrd gorzfubfuqbcuigbtqrk”

uuuuuu“Ohd.rgykuQouaordbfoxubrubfuqbcuqdfxudiroauscbftubrurzucorurqo
uuuuuuqzsfxus zfurqourad.jkuQouigoxunqofuqoujfonurqoutdvoundcus ,ucrbgg
uuuuuu.gsr.qbftubrkuDfxuqouqsagoxubrudndyudrurqbcu zbfruziuqbcuigbtqrk
uuuuuuNoujfznudrugodcrurqdruqou.dvouczuidaubfucdioryk”

uuuuuuMsruvzaourqdfurqdrunounoaoufopoauxocrbfoxurzujfzn,urqzstqurqoao
uuuuuundcuvs.qunqb.qunouvbtqrucsavbcokuRqoaoundcufzu.qdf.ouziuibfxbft
uuuuuuizzrcro cubfurqouvbao,uizaurqouabcbftuvsxuzzloxucnbirgyubfus zf
uuuuuurqov,umsrudcunoudrugdcruaod.qoxuibavoautazsfxumoyzfxurqouvzadcc
uuuuuunoudggugzzjoxuodtoagyuizaurqovkuMsrufzucgbtqrocrucbtfuziurqov
uuuuuuopoauvoruzsauoyockuBiurqouodarqurzgxudurasoucrzay,urqofuCrd gorzf
uuuuuufopoauaod.qoxurqdrubcgdfxuziuaoistourzndaxcunqb.quqoucrasttgox
uuuuuurqazstqurqouiztus zfurqdrugdcrufbtqrkuCzvonqoaoubfurqouqodaruzi
uuuuuurqoutaodruTabv ofuVbao,uxznfubfurqouizsgucgbvouziurqouqstouvzadcc
uuuuuunqb.quqdxucs.joxuqbvubf,urqbcu.zgxudfxu.asog-qodaroxuvdfubc
uuuuuuizaopoaumsaboxk

uuuuuuVdfyurad.ocunouizsfxuziuqbvubfurqoumzt-tbarubcgdfxunqoaouqouqdx
uuuuuuqbxuqbcucdpdtoudggykuDuqstouxabpbft-nqoogudfxuducqdiruqdgi-ibggox
uuuuuunbrquasmmbcqucqznoxurqou zcbrbzfuziudfudmdfxzfoxuvbfokuMocbxoubr
uuuuuunoaourqou.asvmgbftuaovdbfcuziurqou.zrrdtocuziurqouvbfoac,uxabpof
uuuuuudndyufzuxzsmrumyurqouizsguaoojuziurqoucsaazsfxbftucndv kuBfuzfo
uuuuuuziurqocouducrd goudfxu.qdbfunbrquduesdfrbryuziutfdnoxumzfoc
uuuuuucqznoxunqoaourqoudfbvdguqdxumoofu.zfibfoxkuDucjogorzfunbrqud
uuuuuurdftgouziumaznfuqdbaudxqoabfturzubrugdyudvzfturqou_xémabc_k

uuuuuu“Duxzt!”ucdbxuQzgvocku“MyuWzpo,udu.sagy-qdbaoxuc dfbogku zza
uuuuuuVzarbvoaunbggufopoaucoouqbcu orudtdbfkuNogg,uBuxzufzrujfznurqdr
uuuuuurqbcu gd.ou.zfrdbfcudfyuco.aorunqb.qunouqdpoufzrudgaodxy
uuuuuuidrqzvoxkuQou.zsgxuqbxouqbcuqzsfx,umsruqou.zsgxufzruqscqubrc
uuuuuupzb.o,udfxuqof.ou.dvourqzcou.abocunqb.quopofubfuxdygbtqrunoaoufzr
uuuuuu godcdfrurzuqodakuZfudfuovoatof.yuqou.zsgxujoo urqouqzsfxubfurqo
uuuuuuzsr-qzscoudruVoaab br,umsrubrundcudgndycuduabcj,udfxubrundcuzfgy
uuuuuuzfurqoucs aovouxdy,unqb.quqouaotdaxoxudcurqouofxuziudgguqbc
uuuuuuoiizarc,urqdruqouxdaoxuxzubrkuRqbcu dcroubfurqourbfubcufzuxzsmr
uuuuuurqougsvbfzscuvbhrsaounbrqunqb.qurqou.aodrsaoundcuxdsmoxkuBrundc
uuuuuucsttocrox,uziu.zsaco,umyurqoucrzayuziurqouidvbgyuqogg-qzsfx,udfx
uuuuuumyurqouxocbaourzuiabtqrofuzgxuCbau.qdagocurzuxodrqkuFzunzfxoaurqo
uuuuuu zzauxopbguziudu.zfpb.ruadfudfxuc.aodvox,uopofudcuzsauiabofxuxbx,
uuuuuudfxudcunouzsacogpocuvbtqruqdpouxzfo,unqofuqoucdnucs.qudu.aodrsao
uuuuuumzsfxbfturqazstqurqouxdajfoccuziurqouvzzaus zfuqbcurad.jkuBrundc
uuuuuudu.sffbftuxopb.o,uiza,ud daruiazvurqou.qdf.ouziuxabpbftuyzsa
uuuuuupb.rbvurzuqbcuxodrq,unqdru odcdfrunzsgxupofrsaourzubfesbaourzz
uuuuuu.gzcogyubfrzucs.qudu.aodrsaoucqzsgxuqoutorucbtqruziubr,udcuvdfy
uuuuuuqdpouxzfo,us zfurqouvzza?uBucdbxubrubfuGzfxzf,uNdrczf,udfxuBucdy
uuuuuubrudtdbfufzn,urqdrufopoauyoruqdpounouqog oxurzuqsfruxznfuduvzao
uuuuuuxdftoazscuvdfurqdfuqounqzubcugybftuyzfxoa”—qoucno ruqbcugzftudav
uuuuuurzndaxcurqouqstouvzrrgoxuoh dfcouziutaoof-c gzr.qoxumztunqb.q
uuuuuucraor.qoxudndyusfrbgubruvoatoxubfrzurqouasccorucgz ocuziurqo
uuuuuuvzzak



.qd roau15k

DuAorazc o.rbzf

uuuuuuBrundcurqouofxuziuFzpovmoa,udfxuQzgvocudfxuBucdr,us zfuduadnudfx
uuuuuuizttyufbtqr,uzfuobrqoaucbxouziudumgdlbftuibaoubfuzsaucbrrbft-azzv
uuuuuubfuMdjoauCraoorkuCbf.ourqouradtb.us cqzruziuzsaupbcbrurz
uuuuuuXopzfcqbaouqouqdxumoofuoftdtoxubfurnzudiidbacuziurqousrvzcr
uuuuuubv zardf.o,ubfurqouibacruziunqb.quqouqdxuoh zcoxurqoudraz.bzsc
uuuuuu.zfxs.ruziu.zgzfoguS nzzxubfu.zffo.rbzfunbrqurqouidvzscu.dax
uuuuuuc.dfxdguziurqouFzf daobgu.gsm,unqbgoubfurqouco.zfxuqouqdx
uuuuuuxoiofxoxurqousfizarsfdrouVvokuVzfr ofcboauiazvurqou.qdatouzi
uuuuuuvsaxoaunqb.quqsftuzpoauqoaubfu.zffo.rbzfunbrqurqouxodrquziuqoa
uuuuuucro -xdstqroa,uVggoku.daéao,urqouyzsftugdxyunqz,udcubrunbggumo
uuuuuuaovovmoaox,undcuizsfxucbhuvzfrqcugdroaudgbpoudfxuvdaaboxubfuFon
uuuuuuYzajkuVyuiabofxundcubfuoh.oggofruc babrcuzpoaurqoucs..occunqb.q
uuuuuuqdxudrrofxoxuducs..occbzfuziuxbiib.sgrudfxubv zardfru.dcoc,ucz
uuuuuurqdruBundcudmgourzubfxs.ouqbvurzuxbc.sccurqouxordbgcuziurqo
uuuuuuMdcjoapbggouvycroaykuBuqdxundbroxu drbofrgyuizaurqouz  zarsfbry
uuuuuuizauBundcudndaourqdruqounzsgxufopoau oavbru.dcocurzuzpoagd ,udfx
uuuuuurqdruqbcu.godaudfxugztb.dguvbfxunzsgxufzrumouxadnfuiazvubrc
uuuuuu aocofrunzajurzuxnoggus zfuvovzabocuziurqou dcrkuCbauQofayudfx
uuuuuuXakuVzarbvoaunoao,uqznopoa,ubfuGzfxzf,uzfurqobaundyurzurqdrugzft
uuuuuupzydtounqb.quqdxumoofuao.zvvofxoxuizaurqouaocrzadrbzfuziuqbc
uuuuuucqdrroaoxufoapockuRqoyuqdxu.dggoxus zfuscurqdrupoayudiroafzzf,ucz
uuuuuurqdrubrundcufdrsadgurqdrurqoucsmwo.rucqzsgxu.zvous uiza
uuuuuuxbc.sccbzfk

uuuuuu“Rqounqzgou.zsacouziuopofrc,”ucdbxuQzgvoc,u“iazvurqou zbfruzi
uuuuuupbonuziurqouvdfunqzu.dggoxuqbvcogiuCrd gorzfundcucbv goudfx
uuuuuuxbao.r,udgrqzstqurzusc,unqzuqdxufzuvodfcubfurqoumotbffbftuzi
uuuuuujfznbfturqouvzrbpocuziuqbcud.rbzfcudfxu.zsgxuzfgyugodafu daruzi
uuuuuurqouid.rc,ubrudggud  odaoxuoh.ooxbftgyu.zv gohkuBuqdpouqdxurqo
uuuuuudxpdfrdtouziurnzu.zfpoacdrbzfcunbrquVackuCrd gorzf,udfxurqou.dco
uuuuuuqdcufznumoofuczuofrbaogyu.godaoxus urqdruBudvufzrudndaourqdr
uuuuuurqoaoubcudfyrqbftunqb.quqdcuaovdbfoxuduco.aorurzusckuYzsunbgg
uuuuuuibfxuduionufzrocus zfurqouvdrroausfxoaurqouqodxbftuMubfuvy
uuuuuubfxohoxugbcruziu.dcock”

uuuuuu“ oaqd cuyzsunzsgxujbfxgyutbpouvouducjor.quziurqou.zsacouzi
uuuuuuopofrcuiazvuvovzayk”

uuuuuu“.oardbfgy,urqzstquBu.dffzrutsdadfroourqdruBu.daayudggurqouid.rc
uuuuuubfuvyuvbfxkuBfrofcouvofrdgu.zf.ofradrbzfuqdcudu.sabzscundyuzi
uuuuuumgzrrbftuzsrunqdruqdcu dccoxkuRqoumdaabcroaunqzuqdcuqbcu.dcoudr
uuuuuuqbcuibftoac’uofxcudfxubcudmgourzudatsounbrqudfuoh oarus zfuqbc
uuuuuuznfucsmwo.ruibfxcurqdrudunoojuzaurnzuziurqou.zsarcunbgguxabpoubr
uuuuuudgguzsruziuqbcuqodxuzf.ouvzaokuCzuod.quziuvyu.dcocuxbc gd.ocurqo
uuuuuugdcr,udfxuVggoku.daéaouqdcumgsaaoxuvyuao.zggo.rbzfuziuMdcjoapbggo
uuuuuuQdggkuRzvzaaznuczvouzrqoaugbrrgou azmgovuvdyumoucsmvbrroxurzuvy
uuuuuufzrb.ounqb.qunbggubfursafuxbc zccoccurqouidbauIaof.qugdxyudfxurqo
uuuuuubfidvzscuS nzzxkuCzuidaudcurqou.dcouziurqouqzsfxutzoc,uqznopoa,uB
uuuuuunbggutbpouyzsurqou.zsacouziuopofrcudcufodagyudcuBu.df,udfxuyzs
uuuuuunbggucsttocrudfyrqbftunqb.quBuvdyuqdpouizatzrrofk

uuuuuu“Vyubfesbabocucqznumoyzfxudgguesocrbzfurqdrurqouidvbgyu zaradbr
uuuuuuxbxufzrugbo,udfxurqdrurqbcuioggznundcubfxooxuduMdcjoapbggokuQo
uuuuuundcuduczfuziurqdruAzxtoauMdcjoapbggo,urqouyzsftoaumazrqoauziuCba
uuuuuu.qdagoc,unqzuigoxunbrquducbfbcroauao srdrbzfurzuCzsrquDvoab.d,
uuuuuunqoaouqoundcucdbxurzuqdpouxboxusfvdaaboxkuQouxbx,udcuduvdrroauzi
uuuuuuid.r,uvdaay,udfxuqdxuzfou.qbgx,urqbcuioggzn,unqzcouaodgufdvoubc
uuuuuurqoucdvoudcuqbcuidrqoa’ckuQouvdaaboxuMoayguTda.bd,uzfouziurqo
uuuuuumodsrbocuziu.zcrduAb.d,udfx,uqdpbftu sagzbfoxudu.zfcbxoadmgoucsv
uuuuuuziu smgb.uvzfoy,uqou.qdftoxuqbcufdvourzuPdfxogosaudfxuigoxurz
uuuuuuOftgdfx,unqoaouqouocrdmgbcqoxuduc.qzzgubfurqouodcruziuYzajcqbaok
uuuuuuQbcuaodczfuizaudrrov rbfturqbcuc o.bdgugbfouziumscbfoccundcurqdr
uuuuuuqouqdxucras.jus udfud.esdbfrdf.ounbrqudu.zfcsv rbpoursrzaus zf
uuuuuurqoupzydtouqzvo,udfxurqdruqouqdxuscoxurqbcuvdf’cudmbgbryurzuvdjo
uuuuuurqousfxoardjbftuducs..occkuIadcoa,urqoursrza,uxboxuqznopoa,udfx
uuuuuurqouc.qzzgunqb.quqdxumotsfunoggucdfjuiazvuxbcao sroubfrzubfidvyk
uuuuuuRqouPdfxogosacuizsfxubru.zfpofbofrurzu.qdftourqobaufdvourz
uuuuuuCrd gorzf,udfxuqoumazstqrurqouaovdbfcuziuqbcuizarsfo,uqbcuc.qovoc
uuuuuuizaurqouisrsao,udfxuqbcurdcrouizauofrzvzgztyurzurqouczsrquzi
uuuuuuOftgdfxkuBugodafoxudrurqouMabrbcquVscosvurqdruqoundcuduao.ztfblox
uuuuuudsrqzabryus zfurqoucsmwo.r,udfxurqdrurqoufdvouziuPdfxogosauqdc
uuuuuumoofu oavdfofrgyudrrd.qoxurzudu.oardbfuvzrqunqb.quqouqdx,ubfuqbc
uuuuuuYzajcqbaouxdyc,umoofurqouibacrurzuxoc.abmok

uuuuuu“Noufznu.zvourzurqdru zarbzfuziuqbcugbiounqb.quqdcu azpoxurzumo
uuuuuuziucs.qubfrofcoubfroaocrurzusckuRqouioggznuqdxuopbxofrgyuvdxo
uuuuuubfesbayudfxuizsfxurqdruzfgyurnzugbpocubfroapofoxumornoofuqbvudfx
uuuuuudupdgsdmgouocrdrokuNqofuqounofrurzuXopzfcqbaouqbcu gdfcunoao,uB
uuuuuumogbopo,uoh.ooxbftgyuqdly,umsrurqdruqouvodfruvbc.qboiuiazvurqo
uuuuuuibacrubcuopbxofruiazvurqoundyubfunqb.quqourzzjuqbcunbiounbrquqbv
uuuuuubfurqou.qdad.roauziuqbcucbcroakuRqoubxoduziuscbftuqoaudcuduxo.zy
uuuuuundcu.godagyudgaodxyubfuqbcuvbfx,urqzstquqouvdyufzruqdpoumoof
uuuuuu.oardbfuqznurqouxordbgcuziuqbcu gzrunoaourzumoudaadftoxkuQouvodfr
uuuuuubfurqouofxurzuqdpourqouocrdro,udfxuqoundcuaodxyurzuscoudfyurzzg
uuuuuuzauasfudfyuabcjuizaurqdruofxkuQbcuibacrud.rundcurzuocrdmgbcq
uuuuuuqbvcogiudcufodaurzuqbcudf.ocradguqzvoudcuqou.zsgx,udfxuqbcuco.zfx
uuuuuundcurzu.sgrbpdrouduiabofxcqb unbrquCbau.qdagocuMdcjoapbggoudfx
uuuuuunbrqurqoufobtqmzsack

uuuuuu“Rqoumdazforuqbvcogiurzgxuqbvudmzsrurqouidvbgyuqzsfx,udfxucz
uuuuuu ao daoxurqoundyuizauqbcuznfuxodrqkuCrd gorzf,udcuBunbggu.zfrbfso
uuuuuurzu.dgguqbv,ujfonurqdrurqouzgxuvdf’cuqodarundcunodjudfxurqdrud
uuuuuucqz.junzsgxujbgguqbvkuCzuvs.quqouqdxugodafoxuiazvuXakuVzarbvoak
uuuuuuQouqdxuqodaxudgczurqdruCbau.qdagocundcucs oacrbrbzscudfxuqdx
uuuuuurdjofurqbcutabvugotofxupoayucoabzscgykuQbcubftofbzscuvbfx
uuuuuubfcrdfrgyucsttocroxudundyumyunqb.qurqoumdazforu.zsgxumouxzfourz
uuuuuuxodrq,udfxuyorubrunzsgxumouqdaxgyu zccbmgourzumabftuqzvourqo
uuuuuutsbgrurzurqouaodguvsaxoaoak

uuuuuu“Qdpbftu.zf.obpoxurqoubxoduqou az.ooxoxurzu.daayubruzsrunbrq
uuuuuu.zfcbxoadmgouibfoccokuDfuzaxbfdayuc.qovoaunzsgxuqdpoumoofu.zfrofr
uuuuuurzunzajunbrquducdpdtouqzsfxkuRqouscouziudarbib.bdguvodfcurzuvdjo
uuuuuurqou.aodrsaouxbdmzgb.dgundcuduigdcquziutofbscus zfuqbcu darkuRqo
uuuuuuxztuqoumzstqrubfuGzfxzfuiazvuAzccudfxuVdftgoc,urqouxodgoacubf
uuuuuuIsgqdvuAzdxkuBrundcurqoucrazftocrudfxuvzcrucdpdtoubfurqoba
uuuuuu zccoccbzfkuQoumazstqrubruxznfumyurqouFzarquXopzfugbfoudfxundgjox
uuuuuudutaodruxbcrdf.ouzpoaurqouvzzauczudcurzutorubruqzvounbrqzsr
uuuuuuoh.brbftudfyuaovdajckuQouqdxudgaodxyuzfuqbcubfco.ruqsfrcugodafox
uuuuuurzu oforadrourqouTabv ofuVbao,udfxuczuqdxuizsfxuducdio
uuuuuuqbxbft- gd.ouizaurqou.aodrsaokuQoaouqoujoffoggoxubrudfxundbrox
uuuuuuqbcu.qdf.ok

uuuuuu“Msrubrundcuczvourbvou.zvbftkuRqouzgxutofrgovdfu.zsgxufzrumo
uuuuuuxo.zyoxuzsrcbxouziuqbcutazsfxcudrufbtqrkuCopoadgurbvocuCrd gorzf
uuuuuugsajoxudmzsrunbrquqbcuqzsfx,umsrunbrqzsrudpdbgkuBrundcuxsabft
uuuuuurqocouiasbrgoccuesocrcurqdruqo,uzauadrqoauqbcudggy,undcucoofumy
uuuuuu odcdfrc,udfxurqdrurqougotofxuziurqouxovzfuxztuao.obpoxudufon
uuuuuu.zfibavdrbzfkuQouqdxuqz oxurqdruqbcunbiouvbtqrugsaouCbau.qdagoc
uuuuuurzuqbcuasbf,umsruqoaoucqou azpoxusfoh o.roxgyubfxo ofxofrkuCqo
uuuuuunzsgxufzruofxodpzsaurzuofrdftgourqouzgxutofrgovdfubfud
uuuuuucofrbvofrdgudrrd.qvofrunqb.quvbtqruxogbpoauqbvuzpoaurzuqbcuofovyk
uuuuuuRqaodrcudfxuopof,uBudvuczaayurzucdy,umgzncuaoiscoxurzuvzpouqoak
uuuuuuCqounzsgxuqdpoufzrqbfturzuxzunbrqubr,udfxuizaudurbvouCrd gorzf
uuuuuundcudruduxodxgz.jk

uuuuuu“Qouizsfxudundyuzsruziuqbcuxbiib.sgrbocurqazstqurqou.qdf.ourqdr
uuuuuuCbau.qdagoc,unqzuqdxu.zf.obpoxuduiabofxcqb uizauqbv,uvdxouqbvurqo
uuuuuuvbfbcroauziuqbcu.qdabryubfurqou.dcouziurqbcusfizarsfdrounzvdf,
uuuuuuVackuGdsaduGyzfckuMyuao aocofrbftuqbvcogiudcuducbftgouvdfuqo
uuuuuud.esbaoxu.zv goroubfigsof.ouzpoauqoa,udfxuqoutdpouqoaurz
uuuuuusfxoacrdfxurqdrubfurqouopofruziuqoauzmrdbfbftuduxbpza.ouiazvuqoa
uuuuuuqscmdfxuqounzsgxuvdaayuqoakuQbcu gdfcunoaoucsxxofgyumazstqrurzud
uuuuuuqodxumyuqbcujfzngoxtourqdruCbau.qdagocundcudmzsrurzugodpourqo
uuuuuuQdgguzfurqoudxpb.ouziuXakuVzarbvoa,unbrqunqzcouz bfbzfuqouqbvcogi
uuuuuu aorofxoxurzu.zbf.bxokuQouvscrud.rudruzf.o,uzauqbcupb.rbvuvbtqr
uuuuuutorumoyzfxuqbcu znoakuQourqoaoizaou sru aoccsaous zfuVackuGyzfc
uuuuuurzunabrourqbcugorroa,ubv gzabfturqouzgxuvdfurzutbpouqoaudf
uuuuuubfroapbonuzfurqouopofbftumoizaouqbcuxo darsaouizauGzfxzfkuQo
uuuuuurqof,umyuduc o.bzscudatsvofr,u aopofroxuqoauiazvutzbft,udfxucz
uuuuuuqdxurqou.qdf.ouizaunqb.quqouqdxundbroxk

uuuuuu“Xabpbftumd.jubfurqouopofbftuiazvu.zzvmouRad.oyuqoundcubfurbvourz
uuuuuutoruqbcuqzsfx,urzuraodrubrunbrquqbcubfioafdgu dbfr,udfxurzumabft
uuuuuurqoumodcruazsfxurzurqoutdroudrunqb.quqouqdxuaodczfurzuoh o.rurqdr
uuuuuuqounzsgxuibfxurqouzgxutofrgovdfundbrbftkuRqouxzt,ubf.broxumyubrc
uuuuuuvdcroa,uc adftuzpoaurqounb.jor-tdroudfxu sacsoxurqousfizarsfdro
uuuuuumdazfor,unqzuigoxuc.aodvbftuxznfurqouyonudggoykuBfurqdrutgzzvy
uuuuuursffogubruvscrubfxooxuqdpoumoofuduxaodxisgucbtqrurzucoourqdruqsto
uuuuuumgd.ju.aodrsao,unbrqubrcuigdvbftuwdncudfxumgdlbftuoyoc,umzsfxbft
uuuuuudiroaubrcupb.rbvkuQouiogguxodxudrurqouofxuziurqoudggoyuiazvuqodar
uuuuuuxbcodcoudfxuroaazakuRqouqzsfxuqdxujo rus zfurqoutadccyumzaxoa
uuuuuunqbgourqoumdazforuqdxuasfuxznfurqou drq,uczurqdrufzurad.jumsrurqo
uuuuuuvdf’cundcupbcbmgokuZfucoobftuqbvugybftucrbggurqou.aodrsaouqdx
uuuuuu azmdmgyud  azd.qoxurzucfbiiudruqbv,umsruibfxbftuqbvuxodxuqdx
uuuuuursafoxudndyudtdbfkuBrundcurqofurqdrubrugoirurqou abfrunqb.qundc
uuuuuud.rsdggyuzmcoapoxumyuXakuVzarbvoakuRqouqzsfxundcu.dggoxuziiudfx
uuuuuuqsaaboxudndyurzubrcugdbaubfurqouTabv ofuVbao,udfxuduvycroayundc
uuuuuugoirunqb.qu sllgoxurqoudsrqzabrboc,udgdavoxurqou.zsfraycbxo,udfx
uuuuuuibfdggyumazstqrurqou.dcounbrqbfurqouc.z ouziuzsauzmcoapdrbzfk

uuuuuu“Czuvs.quizaurqouxodrquziuCbau.qdagocuMdcjoapbggokuYzsu oa.obpo
uuuuuurqouxopbgbcqu.sffbftuziubr,uizauaodggyubrunzsgxumoudgvzcr
uuuuuubv zccbmgourzuvdjoudu.dcoudtdbfcrurqouaodguvsaxoaoakuQbcuzfgy
uuuuuud..zv gb.oundcuzfounqzu.zsgxufopoautbpouqbvudndy,udfxurqo
uuuuuutazroceso,ubf.zf.obpdmgoufdrsaouziurqouxopb.ouzfgyucoapoxurzuvdjo
uuuuuubruvzaouoiio.rbpokuMzrquziurqounzvofu.zf.oafoxubfurqou.dco,uVack
uuuuuuCrd gorzfudfxuVackuGdsaduGyzfc,unoaougoirunbrquducrazftucsc b.bzf
uuuuuudtdbfcruCrd gorzfkuVackuCrd gorzfujfonurqdruqouqdxuxocbtfcus zf
uuuuuurqouzgxuvdf,udfxudgczuziurqouohbcrof.ouziurqouqzsfxkuVackuGyzfc
uuuuuujfonufobrqoauziurqocourqbftc,umsruqdxumoofubv aoccoxumyurqouxodrq
uuuuuuz..saabftudrurqourbvouziudfusf.df.oggoxud  zbfrvofrunqb.qundc
uuuuuuzfgyujfznfurzuqbvkuQznopoa,umzrquziurqovunoaousfxoauqbc
uuuuuubfigsof.o,udfxuqouqdxufzrqbfturzuiodauiazvurqovkuRqouibacruqdgi
uuuuuuziuqbcurdcjundcucs..occisggyud..zv gbcqoxumsrurqouvzaouxbiib.sgr
uuuuuucrbgguaovdbfoxk

uuuuuu“Brubcu zccbmgourqdruCrd gorzfuxbxufzrujfznuziurqouohbcrof.ouzi
uuuuuudfuqobaubfu.dfdxdkuBfudfyu.dcouqounzsgxupoayuczzfugodafubruiazv
uuuuuuqbcuiabofxuXakuVzarbvoa,udfxuqoundcurzgxumyurqougdrroaudgg
uuuuuuxordbgcudmzsrurqoudaabpdguziuQofayuMdcjoapbggokuCrd gorzf’cuibacr
uuuuuubxodundcurqdrurqbcuyzsftucradftoauiazvu.dfdxduvbtqru zccbmgyumo
uuuuuuxzfourzuxodrqubfuGzfxzfunbrqzsru.zvbftuxznfurzuXopzfcqbaoudrudggk
uuuuuuQouxbcrascroxuqbcunbiouopoaucbf.oucqouqdxuaoiscoxurzuqog uqbvubf
uuuuuugdybftudurad uizaurqouzgxuvdf,udfxuqouxdaoxufzrugodpouqoaugzft
uuuuuuzsruziuqbcucbtqruizauiodauqoucqzsgxugzcouqbcubfigsof.ouzpoauqoak
uuuuuuBrundcuizaurqbcuaodczfurqdruqourzzjuqoaurzuGzfxzfunbrquqbvkuRqoy
uuuuuugzxtox,uBuibfx,udrurqouVohmzazstqu abpdrouQzrog,ubfu.adpof
uuuuuuCraoor,unqb.qundcud.rsdggyuzfouziurqzcou.dggoxus zfumyuvyudtofr
uuuuuubfucoda.quziuopbxof.okuQoaouqoujo ruqbcunbioubv abczfoxubfuqoa
uuuuuuazzvunqbgouqo,uxbctsbcoxubfudumodax,uizggznoxuXakuVzarbvoaurz
uuuuuuMdjoauCraoorudfxudiroandaxcurzurqoucrdrbzfudfxurzurqo
uuuuuuFzarqsvmoagdfxuQzrogkuQbcunbiouqdxuczvoubfjgbftuziuqbcu gdfc;umsr
uuuuuucqouqdxucs.quduiodauziuqoauqscmdfx—duiodauizsfxoxus zfumasrdg
uuuuuubgg-raodrvofr—rqdrucqouxdaoufzrunabrourzundafurqouvdfunqzvucqo
uuuuuujfonurzumoubfuxdftoakuBiurqougorroaucqzsgxuidggubfrzuCrd gorzf’c
uuuuuuqdfxcuqoauznfugbiounzsgxufzrumoucdiokuOpofrsdggy,udcunoujfzn,ucqo
uuuuuudxz roxurqouoh oxbofruziu.srrbftuzsrurqounzaxcunqb.qunzsgxuizav
uuuuuurqouvoccdto,udfxudxxaoccbfturqougorroaubfuduxbctsbcoxuqdfxkuBr
uuuuuuaod.qoxurqoumdazfor,udfxutdpouqbvurqouibacrundafbftuziuqbc
uuuuuuxdftoak

uuuuuu“BrundcupoayuoccofrbdguizauCrd gorzfurzutoruczvoudarb.gouziuCba
uuuuuuQofay’cudrrbaouczurqdr,ubfu.dcouqoundcuxabpofurzuscourqouxzt,uqo
uuuuuuvbtqrudgndycuqdpourqouvodfcuziucorrbftuqbvus zfuqbcurad.jkuNbrq
uuuuuu.qdad.roabcrb.u azv rfoccudfxudsxd.bryuqoucorudmzsrurqbcudruzf.o,
uuuuuudfxunou.dffzruxzsmrurqdrurqoumzzrcuzau.qdvmoa-vdbxuziurqouqzrog
uuuuuundcunoggumabmoxurzuqog uqbvubfuqbcuxocbtfkuMyu.qdf.o,uqznopoa,
uuuuuurqouibacrumzzrunqb.qundcu az.saoxuizauqbvundcudufonuzfoudfx,
uuuuuurqoaoizao,uscogoccuizauqbcu sa zcokuQourqofuqdxubruaorsafoxudfx
uuuuuuzmrdbfoxudfzrqoa—duvzcrubfcras.rbpoubf.bxofr,ucbf.oubru azpox
uuuuuu.zf.gscbpogyurzuvyuvbfxurqdrunounoaouxodgbftunbrquduaodguqzsfx,
uuuuuudcufzuzrqoaucs  zcbrbzfu.zsgxuoh gdbfurqbcudfhboryurzuzmrdbfudf
uuuuuuzgxumzzrudfxurqbcubfxbiioaof.ourzudufonuzfokuRqouvzaou_zsraé_udfx
uuuuuutazrocesoudfubf.bxofrubcurqouvzaou.daoisggyubruxocoapocurzumo
uuuuuuohdvbfox,udfxurqoupoayu zbfrunqb.qud  odacurzu.zv gb.droudu.dco
uuuuuubc,unqofuxsgyu.zfcbxoaoxudfxuc.bofrbib.dggyuqdfxgox,urqouzfo
uuuuuunqb.qubcuvzcrugbjogyurzuogs.bxdroubrk

uuuuuu“Rqofunouqdxurqoupbcbruiazvuzsauiabofxcufohruvzafbft,ucqdxznox
uuuuuudgndycumyuCrd gorzfubfurqou.dmkuIazvuqbcujfzngoxtouziuzsauazzvc
uuuuuudfxuziuvyud  odadf.o,udcunoggudcuiazvuqbcutofoadgu.zfxs.r,uBudv
uuuuuubf.gbfoxurzurqbfjurqdruCrd gorzf’cu.daooauziu.abvouqdcumoofumyufz
uuuuuuvodfcugbvbroxurzurqbcucbftgouMdcjoapbggoudiidbakuBrubcucsttocrbpo
uuuuuurqdruxsabfturqougdcrurqaoouyodacurqoaouqdpoumoofuizsa
uuuuuu.zfcbxoadmgoumsatgdabocubfurqounocru.zsfray,uizaufzfouziunqb.q
uuuuuundcudfyu.abvbfdguopoaudaaocroxkuRqougdcruziurqoco,udruIzgjocrzfo
uuuuuu.zsar,ubfuVdy,undcuaovdajdmgouizaurqou.zgx-mgzzxoxu bcrzggbftuzi
uuuuuurqou dto,unqzucsa abcoxurqouvdcjoxudfxuczgbrdayumsatgdakuBu.dffzr
uuuuuuxzsmrurqdruCrd gorzfuao.asbroxuqbcundfbftuaoczsa.ocubfurqbc
uuuuuuidcqbzf,udfxurqdruizauyodacuqouqdcumoofuduxoc oadroudfxuxdftoazsc
uuuuuuvdfk

uuuuuu“Nouqdxudfuohdv gouziuqbcuaodxbfoccuziuaoczsa.ourqdruvzafbftunqof
uuuuuuqoutzrudndyuiazvuscuczucs..occisggy,udfxudgczuziuqbcudsxd.bryubf
uuuuuucofxbftumd.juvyuznfufdvourzuvourqazstqurqou.dmvdfkuIazvurqdr
uuuuuuvzvofruqousfxoacrzzxurqdruBuqdxurdjofuzpoaurqou.dcoubfuGzfxzf,
uuuuuudfxurqdrurqoaoizaourqoaoundcufzu.qdf.ouizauqbvurqoaokuQouaorsafox
uuuuuurzuXdarvzzaudfxudndbroxurqoudaabpdguziurqoumdazfork”

uuuuuu“Zfouvzvofr!”ucdbxuBku“Yzsuqdpo,ufzuxzsmr,uxoc.abmoxurqoucoesof.o
uuuuuuziuopofrcu.zaao.rgy,umsrurqoaoubcuzfou zbfrunqb.quyzsuqdpougoir
uuuuuusfoh gdbfoxkuNqdrumo.dvouziurqouqzsfxunqofubrcuvdcroaundcubf
uuuuuuGzfxzf?”

uuuuuu“Buqdpoutbpofuczvoudrrofrbzfurzurqbcuvdrroaudfxubrubcusfxzsmroxgy
uuuuuuziubv zardf.okuRqoaou.dfumoufzuesocrbzfurqdruCrd gorzfuqdxud
uuuuuu.zfibxdfr,urqzstqubrubcusfgbjogyurqdruqouopoau gd.oxuqbvcogiubf
uuuuuuqbcu znoaumyucqdabftudgguqbcu gdfcunbrquqbvkuRqoaoundcudfuzgx
uuuuuuvdfcoapdfrudruVoaab bruQzsco,unqzcoufdvoundcuDfrqzfykuQbc
uuuuuu.zffo.rbzfunbrqurqouCrd gorzfcu.dfumourad.oxuizaucopoadguyodac,
uuuuuudcuidaumd.judcurqouc.qzzg-vdcroabftuxdyc,uczurqdruqouvscruqdpo
uuuuuumoofudndaourqdruqbcuvdcroaudfxuvbcraoccunoaouaodggyuqscmdfxudfx
uuuuuunbiokuRqbcuvdfuqdcuxbcd  odaoxudfxuqdcuoc.d oxuiazvurqou.zsfrayk
uuuuuuBrubcucsttocrbpourqdruDfrqzfyubcufzrudu.zvvzfufdvoubfuOftgdfx,
uuuuuunqbgouDfrzfbzubcuczubfudgguC dfbcquzauC dfbcq-Dvoab.dfu.zsfrabock
uuuuuuRqouvdf,ugbjouVackuCrd gorzfuqoacogi,uc zjoutzzxuOftgbcq,umsr
uuuuuunbrqudu.sabzscugbc bftud..ofrkuBuqdpouvycogiucoofurqbcuzgxuvdf
uuuuuu.azccurqouTabv ofuVbaoumyurqou drqunqb.quCrd gorzfuqdxuvdajox
uuuuuuzsrkuBrubcupoayu azmdmgo,urqoaoizao,urqdrubfurqoudmcof.ouziuqbc
uuuuuuvdcroaubrundcuqounqzu.daoxuizaurqouqzsfx,urqzstquqouvdyufopoa
uuuuuuqdpoujfznfurqou sa zcouizaunqb.qurqoumodcrundcuscoxk

uuuuuu“RqouCrd gorzfcurqofunofruxznfurzuXopzfcqbao,unqbrqoaurqoyunoao
uuuuuuczzfuizggznoxumyuCbauQofayudfxuyzskuZfounzaxufznudcurzuqznuB
uuuuuucrzzxuvycogiudrurqdrurbvokuBruvdyu zccbmgyuao.saurzuyzsauvovzay
uuuuuurqdrunqofuBuohdvbfoxurqou d oaus zfunqb.qurqou abfroxunzaxcunoao
uuuuuuidcrofoxuBuvdxoudu.gzcoubfc o.rbzfuizaurqoundroa-vdajkuBfuxzbft
uuuuuuczuBuqogxubrunbrqbfuduionubf.qocuziuvyuoyoc,udfxundcu.zfc.bzscuzi
uuuuuuduidbfrucvogguziurqouc.ofrujfznfudcunqbrouwoccdvbfokuRqoaoudao
uuuuuucopofry-ibpou oaisvoc,unqb.qubrubcupoayufo.occdayurqdrudu.abvbfdg
uuuuuuoh oarucqzsgxumoudmgourzuxbcrbftsbcquiazvuod.quzrqoa,udfxu.dcoc
uuuuuuqdpouvzaourqdfuzf.ounbrqbfuvyuznfuoh oabof.ouxo ofxoxus zfurqoba
uuuuuu azv ruao.ztfbrbzfkuRqouc.ofrucsttocroxurqou aocof.ouziudugdxy,
uuuuuudfxudgaodxyuvyurqzstqrcumotdfurzursafurzndaxcurqouCrd gorzfck
uuuuuuRqscuBuqdxuvdxou.oardbfuziurqouqzsfx,udfxuqdxutsoccoxudrurqo
uuuuuu.abvbfdgumoizaouopoaunounofrurzurqounocru.zsfrayk

uuuuuu“Brundcuvyutdvourzundr.quCrd gorzfkuBrundcuopbxofr,uqznopoa,urqdr
uuuuuuBu.zsgxufzruxzurqbcubiuBunoaounbrquyzs,ucbf.ouqounzsgxumoujoofgy
uuuuuuzfuqbcutsdaxkuBuxo.obpoxuopoaymzxy,urqoaoizao,uyzsacogiubf.gsxox,
uuuuuudfxuBu.dvouxznfuco.aorgyunqofuBundcucs  zcoxurzumoubfuGzfxzfkuVy
uuuuuuqdaxcqb cunoaoufzruczutaodrudcuyzsubvdtbfox,urqzstqucs.qurabigbft
uuuuuuxordbgcuvscrufopoaubfroaioaounbrqurqoubfpocrbtdrbzfuziudu.dcokuB
uuuuuucrdyoxuizaurqouvzcru darudru.zzvmouRad.oy,udfxuzfgyuscoxurqouqsr
uuuuuus zfurqouvzzaunqofubrundcufo.occdayurzumoufodaurqouc.ofouzi
uuuuuud.rbzfku.darnabtqruqdxu.zvouxznfunbrquvo,udfxubfuqbcuxbctsbcoudc
uuuuuudu.zsfrayumzyuqoundcuziutaodrudccbcrdf.ourzuvokuBundcuxo ofxofr
uuuuuus zfuqbvuizauizzxudfxu.godfugbfofkuNqofuBundcundr.qbftuCrd gorzf,
uuuuuu.darnabtqrundcuiaoesofrgyundr.qbftuyzs,uczurqdruBundcudmgourz
uuuuuujoo uvyuqdfxus zfudggurqoucrabftck

uuuuuu“Buqdpoudgaodxyurzgxuyzsurqdruyzsauao zarcuaod.qoxuvouad bxgy,
uuuuuumobftuizandaxoxubfcrdfrgyuiazvuMdjoauCraoorurzu.zzvmouRad.oyk
uuuuuuRqoyunoaouziutaodrucoapb.ourzuvo,udfxuoc o.bdggyurqdruzfo
uuuuuubf.bxofrdggyurasrqisgu bo.ouziumbztad qyuziuCrd gorzf’ckuBundc
uuuuuudmgourzuocrdmgbcqurqoubxofrbryuziurqouvdfudfxurqounzvdfudfxujfon
uuuuuudrugdcruohd.rgyuqznuBucrzzxkuRqou.dcouqdxumoofu.zfcbxoadmgy
uuuuuu.zv gb.droxurqazstqurqoubf.bxofruziurqouoc.d oxu.zfpb.rudfxurqo
uuuuuuaogdrbzfcumornoofuqbvudfxurqouMdaayvzaockuRqbcudgczuyzsu.godaox
uuuuuus ubfudupoayuoiio.rbpoundy,urqzstquBuqdxudgaodxyu.zvourzurqoucdvo
uuuuuu.zf.gscbzfcuiazvuvyuznfuzmcoapdrbzfck

uuuuuu“Myurqourbvourqdruyzsuxbc.zpoaoxuvous zfurqouvzzauBuqdxud
uuuuuu.zv goroujfzngoxtouziurqounqzgoumscbfocc,umsruBuqdxufzrudu.dco
uuuuuunqb.qu.zsgxutzurzuduwsaykuOpofuCrd gorzf’cudrrov rus zfuCbauQofay
uuuuuurqdrufbtqrunqb.quofxoxubfurqouxodrquziurqousfizarsfdrou.zfpb.r
uuuuuuxbxufzruqog uscuvs.qubfu azpbftuvsaxoaudtdbfcruzsauvdfkuRqoao
uuuuuucoovoxurzumoufzudgroafdrbpoumsrurzu.dr.quqbvuaox-qdfxox,udfxurz
uuuuuuxzuczunouqdxurzuscouCbauQofay,udgzfoudfxud  daofrgyusf azro.rox,
uuuuuudcudumdbrkuNouxbxucz,udfxudrurqou.zcruziuducopoaoucqz.jurzuzsa
uuuuuu.gbofrunoucs..ooxoxubfu.zv gorbftuzsau.dcoudfxuxabpbftuCrd gorzf
uuuuuurzuqbcuxocras.rbzfkuRqdruCbauQofayucqzsgxuqdpoumoofuoh zcoxurz
uuuuuurqbcubc,uBuvscru.zfiocc,uduao azd.qurzuvyuvdfdtovofruziurqou.dco,
uuuuuumsrunouqdxufzuvodfcuziuizaocoobfturqouroaabmgoudfxu dadgylbft
uuuuuuc o.rd.gounqb.qurqoumodcru aocofrox,ufzau.zsgxunou aoxb.rurqouizt
uuuuuunqb.quofdmgoxuqbvurzumsacrus zfuscudrucs.qucqzarufzrb.okuNo
uuuuuucs..ooxoxubfuzsauzmwo.rudrudu.zcrunqb.qumzrqurqouc o.bdgbcrudfx
uuuuuuXakuVzarbvoaudccsaouvounbggumoudurov zadayuzfokuDugzftuwzsafoy
uuuuuuvdyuofdmgouzsauiabofxurzuao.zpoaufzruzfgyuiazvuqbcucqdrroaox
uuuuuufoapocumsrudgczuiazvuqbcunzsfxoxuioogbftckuQbcugzpouizaurqougdxy
uuuuuundcuxoo udfxucbf.oao,udfxurzuqbvurqoucdxxocru daruziudggurqbc
uuuuuumgd.jumscbfoccundcurqdruqoucqzsgxuqdpoumoofuxo.obpoxumyuqoak

uuuuuu“Bruzfgyuaovdbfcurzubfxb.drourqou darunqb.qucqouqdxu gdyox
uuuuuurqazstqzsrkuRqoaou.dfumoufzuxzsmrurqdruCrd gorzfuohoa.bcoxudf
uuuuuubfigsof.ouzpoauqoaunqb.quvdyuqdpoumoofugzpouzauvdyuqdpoumoof
uuuuuuioda,uzaupoayu zccbmgyumzrq,ucbf.ourqoyudaoumyufzuvodfc
uuuuuubf.zv drbmgouovzrbzfckuBrundc,udrugodcr,udmczgsrogyuoiio.rbpokuDr
uuuuuuqbcu.zvvdfxucqou.zfcofroxurzu dccudcuqbcucbcroa,urqzstquqouizsfx
uuuuuurqougbvbrcuziuqbcu znoauzpoauqoaunqofuqouofxodpzsaoxurzuvdjouqoa
uuuuuurqouxbao.rud..occzayurzuvsaxoakuCqoundcuaodxyurzundafuCbauQofay
uuuuuuczuidaudcucqou.zsgxunbrqzsrubv gb.drbftuqoauqscmdfx,udfxudtdbf
uuuuuudfxudtdbfucqouraboxurzuxzuczkuCrd gorzfuqbvcogiucoovcurzuqdpo
uuuuuumoofu.d dmgouziuwodgzscy,udfxunqofuqoucdnurqoumdazforu dybft
uuuuuu.zsarurzurqougdxy,uopofurqzstqubrundcu daruziuqbcuznfu gdf,ucrbgg
uuuuuuqou.zsgxufzruqog ubfroaas rbftunbrqudu dccbzfdrouzsrmsacrunqb.q
uuuuuuaopodgoxurqouiboayuczsgunqb.quqbcucogi-.zfrdbfoxuvdffoaucz
uuuuuu.gopoagyu.zf.odgoxkuMyuof.zsadtbfturqoubfrbvd.yuqouvdxoubr
uuuuuu.oardbfurqdruCbauQofayunzsgxuiaoesofrgyu.zvourzuVoaab bruQzsco
uuuuuudfxurqdruqounzsgxuczzfoauzaugdroautorurqouz  zarsfbryunqb.quqo
uuuuuuxocbaoxkuZfurqouxdyuziurqou.abcbc,uqznopoa,uqbcunbioursafox
uuuuuucsxxofgyudtdbfcruqbvkuCqouqdxugodafoxuczvorqbftuziurqouxodrquzi
uuuuuurqou.zfpb.r,udfxucqoujfonurqdrurqouqzsfxundcumobftujo rubfurqo
uuuuuuzsrqzscouzfurqouopofbfturqdruCbauQofayundcu.zvbfturzuxbffoakuCqo
uuuuuurdhoxuqoauqscmdfxunbrquqbcubfrofxoxu.abvo,udfxuduisabzscuc.ofo
uuuuuuizggznoxubfunqb.quqoucqznoxuqoauizaurqouibacrurbvourqdrucqouqdxud
uuuuuuabpdgubfuqbcugzpokuQoauibxogbryursafoxubfudfubfcrdfrurzumbrroa
uuuuuuqdraox,udfxuqoucdnurqdrucqounzsgxumoradyuqbvkuQourboxuqoaus ,
uuuuuurqoaoizao,urqdrucqouvbtqruqdpoufzu.qdf.ouziundafbftuCbauQofay,
uuuuuudfxuqouqz ox,ufzuxzsmr,urqdrunqofurqounqzgou.zsfraycbxou sruxznf
uuuuuurqoumdazfor’cuxodrqurzurqou.sacouziuqbcuidvbgy,udcurqoyu.oardbfgy
uuuuuunzsgxuxz,uqou.zsgxunbfuqbcunbioumd.jurzud..o rudfud..zv gbcqox
uuuuuuid.rudfxurzujoo ucbgofrus zfunqdrucqoujfonkuBfurqbcuBuidf.yurqdr
uuuuuubfudfyu.dcouqouvdxouduvbc.dg.sgdrbzf,udfxurqdr,ubiunouqdxufzr
uuuuuumoofurqoao,uqbcuxzzvunzsgxufzfourqougoccuqdpoumoofucodgoxkuD
uuuuuunzvdfuziuC dfbcqumgzzxuxzocufzru.zfxzfoucs.qudfubfwsayucz
uuuuuugbtqrgykuDfxufzn,uvyuxodauNdrczf,unbrqzsruaoioaabfturzuvyufzroc,
uuuuuuBu.dffzrutbpouyzsuduvzaouxordbgoxud..zsfruziurqbcu.sabzscu.dcokuB
uuuuuuxzufzrujfznurqdrudfyrqbftuoccofrbdguqdcumoofugoirusfoh gdbfoxk”

uuuuuu“Qou.zsgxufzruqz ourzuiabtqrofuCbauQofayurzuxodrqudcuqouqdxuxzfo
uuuuuurqouzgxusf.gounbrquqbcumztbouqzsfxk”

uuuuuu“Rqoumodcrundcucdpdtoudfxuqdgi-crdapoxkuBiubrcud  odadf.ouxbxufzr
uuuuuuiabtqrofubrcupb.rbvurzuxodrq,udrugodcrubrunzsgxu dadgylourqo
uuuuuuaocbcrdf.ounqb.quvbtqrumouziioaoxk”

uuuuuu“FzuxzsmrkuRqoaouzfgyuaovdbfcuzfouxbiib.sgrykuBiuCrd gorzfu.dvo
uuuuuubfrzurqoucs..occbzf,uqznu.zsgxuqouoh gdbfurqouid.rurqdruqo,urqo
uuuuuuqoba,uqdxumoofugbpbftusfdffzsf.oxusfxoaudfzrqoaufdvouczu.gzcourz
uuuuuurqou az oary?uQznu.zsgxuqou.gdbvubrunbrqzsru.dscbftucsc b.bzfudfx
uuuuuubfesbay?”

uuuuuu“Brubcuduizavbxdmgouxbiib.sgry,udfxuBuiodaurqdruyzsudcjurzzuvs.q
uuuuuunqofuyzsuoh o.ruvourzuczgpoubrkuRqou dcrudfxurqou aocofrudao
uuuuuunbrqbfurqouibogxuziuvyubfesbay,umsrunqdruduvdfuvdyuxzubfurqo
uuuuuuisrsaoubcuduqdaxuesocrbzfurzudfcnoakuVackuCrd gorzfuqdcuqodaxuqoa
uuuuuuqscmdfxuxbc.sccurqou azmgovuzfucopoadguz..dcbzfckuRqoaounoao
uuuuuurqaoou zccbmgou.zsacockuQouvbtqru.gdbvurqou az oaryuiazvuCzsrq
uuuuuuDvoab.d,uocrdmgbcquqbcubxofrbryumoizaourqouMabrbcqudsrqzabrboc
uuuuuurqoaoudfxuczuzmrdbfurqouizarsfounbrqzsruopoau.zvbfturzuOftgdfxudr
uuuuuudgg,uzauqouvbtqrudxz rudfuogdmzadrouxbctsbcouxsabfturqoucqzar
uuuuuurbvourqdruqoufooxumoubfuGzfxzf;uza,udtdbf,uqouvbtqruisafbcqudf
uuuuuud..zv gb.ounbrqurqou azzicudfxu d oac,u srrbftuqbvubfudcuqoba,
uuuuuudfxuaordbfbftudu.gdbvus zfuczvou az zarbzfuziuqbcubf.zvokuNo
uuuuuu.dffzruxzsmruiazvunqdrunoujfznuziuqbvurqdruqounzsgxuqdpouizsfx
uuuuuuczvoundyuzsruziurqouxbiib.sgrykuDfxufzn,uvyuxodauNdrczf,unouqdpo
uuuuuuqdxuczvounoojcuziucopoaounzaj,udfxuizauzfouopofbft,uBurqbfj,uno
uuuuuuvdyursafuzsaurqzstqrcubfrzuvzaou godcdfru.qdffogckuBuqdpoudumzh
uuuuuuizau_GocuQstsofzrc_kuQdpouyzsuqodaxurqouXouAocljoc?uVbtqruB
uuuuuurazsmgouyzsurqofurzumouaodxyubfuqdgiudfuqzsa,udfxunou.dfucrz udr
uuuuuuVda.bfb’cuizaudugbrrgouxbffoauzfurqoundy?”


RQOuOFX










Ofxuziu azwo.ruTsrofmoat’cuRqouQzsfxuziurqouMdcjoapbggoc,umyuDku.zfdfuXzygo

***uOFXuZIuRQBCu AZWO.RuTSROFMOATuOMZZJuRQOuQZSFXuZIuRQOuMDCJOAPBGGOCu***

*****uRqbcuibgoucqzsgxumoufdvoxu2852-0krhruzau2852-0klb u*****
Rqbcudfxudggudccz.bdroxuibgocuziupdabzscuizavdrcunbggumouizsfxubf:
uuuuuuuuqrr ://nnnktsrofmoatkzat/2/8/5/2852/

 azxs.oxumyuCqaoopdrcduA,udfxuXdpbxuNbxtoa

S xdroxuoxbrbzfcunbgguao gd.ourqou aopbzscuzfo--rqouzgxuoxbrbzfc
nbggumouaofdvoxk

.aodrbfturqounzajcuiazvu smgb.uxzvdbfu abfruoxbrbzfcuvodfcurqdrufz
zfouznfcuduSfbroxuCrdrocu.z yabtqrubfurqocounzajc,uczurqouIzsfxdrbzf
(dfxuyzs!)u.dfu.z yudfxuxbcrabmsroubrubfurqouSfbroxuCrdrocunbrqzsr
 oavbccbzfudfxunbrqzsru dybftu.z yabtqruazydgrbockuuC o.bdguasgoc,
coruizarqubfurqouTofoadguRoavcuziuScou daruziurqbcugb.ofco,ud  gyurz
.z ybftudfxuxbcrabmsrbftu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.unzajcurz
 azro.rurqou AZWO.RuTSROFMOAT-rvu.zf.o rudfxuradxovdajkuu azwo.r
Tsrofmoatubcuduaotbcroaoxuradxovdaj,udfxuvdyufzrumouscoxubiuyzs
.qdatouizaurqouoMzzjc,usfgoccuyzsuao.obpouc o.bib.u oavbccbzfkuuBiuyzs
xzufzru.qdatoudfyrqbftuizau.z bocuziurqbcuoMzzj,u.zv gybftunbrqurqo
asgocubcupoayuodcykuuYzsuvdyuscourqbcuoMzzjuizaufodagyudfyu sa zco
cs.qudcu.aodrbzfuziuxoabpdrbpounzajc,uao zarc,u oaizavdf.ocudfx
aocoda.qkuuRqoyuvdyumouvzxbiboxudfxu abfroxudfxutbpofudndy--yzsuvdyuxz
 ad.rb.dggyuDFYRQBFTunbrqu smgb.uxzvdbfuoMzzjckuuAoxbcrabmsrbzfubc
csmwo.rurzurqouradxovdajugb.ofco,uoc o.bdggyu.zvvoa.bdg
aoxbcrabmsrbzfk



***uCRDAR:uISGGuGB.OFCOu***

RQOuISGGu AZWO.RuTSROFMOATuGB.OFCO
 GODCOuAODXuRQBCuMOIZAOuYZSuXBCRABMSROuZAuSCOuRQBCuNZAJ

Rzu azro.rurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuvbccbzfuziu azvzrbfturqouiaoo
xbcrabmsrbzfuziuogo.razfb.unzajc,umyuscbftuzauxbcrabmsrbfturqbcunzaj
(zaudfyuzrqoaunzajudccz.bdroxubfudfyundyunbrqurqou qadcou“ azwo.r
Tsrofmoat”),uyzsudtaoourzu.zv gyunbrqudggurqouroavcuziurqouIsggu azwo.r
Tsrofmoat-rvuGb.ofcou(dpdbgdmgounbrqurqbcuibgouzauzfgbfoudr
qrr ://tsrofmoatkzat/gb.ofco)k


Co.rbzfu1kuuTofoadguRoavcuziuScoudfxuAoxbcrabmsrbftu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rv
ogo.razfb.unzajc

1kDkuuMyuaodxbftuzauscbftudfyu daruziurqbcu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rv
ogo.razfb.unzaj,uyzsubfxb.drourqdruyzsuqdpouaodx,usfxoacrdfx,udtaoourz
dfxud..o rudggurqouroavcuziurqbcugb.ofcoudfxubfroggo.rsdgu az oary
(radxovdaj/.z yabtqr)udtaoovofrkuuBiuyzsuxzufzrudtaoourzudmbxoumyudgg
rqouroavcuziurqbcudtaoovofr,uyzsuvscru.odcouscbftudfxuaorsafuzauxocrazy
dggu.z bocuziu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.unzajcubfuyzsau zccoccbzfk
Biuyzsu dbxuduioouizauzmrdbfbftudu.z yuziuzaud..occurzudu azwo.r
Tsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.unzajudfxuyzsuxzufzrudtaoourzumoumzsfxumyurqo
roavcuziurqbcudtaoovofr,uyzsuvdyuzmrdbfuduaoisfxuiazvurqou oaczfuza
ofrbryurzunqzvuyzsu dbxurqouiooudcucoruizarqubfu dadtad qu1kOk8k

1kMkuu“ azwo.ruTsrofmoat”ubcuduaotbcroaoxuradxovdajkuuBruvdyuzfgyumo
scoxuzfuzaudccz.bdroxubfudfyundyunbrqudfuogo.razfb.unzajumyu oz gounqz
dtaoourzumoumzsfxumyurqouroavcuziurqbcudtaoovofrkuuRqoaoudaouduion
rqbftcurqdruyzsu.dfuxzunbrquvzcru azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.unzajc
opofunbrqzsru.zv gybftunbrqurqouisgguroavcuziurqbcudtaoovofrkuuCoo
 dadtad qu1k.umogznkuuRqoaoudaoudugzruziurqbftcuyzsu.dfuxzunbrqu azwo.r
Tsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.unzajcubiuyzsuizggznurqouroavcuziurqbcudtaoovofr
dfxuqog u aocoapouiaoouisrsaoud..occurzu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.
nzajckuuCoou dadtad qu1kOumogznk

1k.kuuRqou azwo.ruTsrofmoatuGbroadayuDa.qbpouIzsfxdrbzfu(“rqouIzsfxdrbzf”
uzau TGDI),uznfcudu.zv bgdrbzfu.z yabtqrubfurqou.zggo.rbzfuziu azwo.r
Tsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.unzajckuuFodagyudggurqoubfxbpbxsdgunzajcubfurqo
.zggo.rbzfudaoubfurqou smgb.uxzvdbfubfurqouSfbroxuCrdrockuuBiudf
bfxbpbxsdgunzajubcubfurqou smgb.uxzvdbfubfurqouSfbroxuCrdrocudfxuyzsudao
gz.droxubfurqouSfbroxuCrdroc,unouxzufzru.gdbvuduabtqrurzu aopofruyzsuiazv
.z ybft,uxbcrabmsrbft,u oaizavbft,uxbc gdybftuzau.aodrbftuxoabpdrbpo
nzajcumdcoxuzfurqounzajudcugzftudcudgguaoioaof.ocurzu azwo.ruTsrofmoat
daouaovzpoxkuuZiu.zsaco,unouqz ourqdruyzsunbggucs  zarurqou azwo.r
Tsrofmoat-rvuvbccbzfuziu azvzrbftuiaooud..occurzuogo.razfb.unzajcumy
iaoogyucqdabftu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvunzajcubfu.zv gbdf.ounbrqurqouroavcuzi
rqbcudtaoovofruizaujoo bfturqou azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvufdvoudccz.bdroxunbrq
rqounzajkuuYzsu.dfuodcbgyu.zv gyunbrqurqouroavcuziurqbcudtaoovofrumy
joo bfturqbcunzajubfurqoucdvouizavdrunbrqubrcudrrd.qoxuisggu azwo.r
Tsrofmoat-rvuGb.ofcounqofuyzsucqdaoubrunbrqzsru.qdatounbrquzrqoack

1kXkuuRqou.z yabtqrugdncuziurqou gd.ounqoaouyzsudaougz.droxudgczutzpoaf
nqdruyzsu.dfuxzunbrqurqbcunzajkuu.z yabtqrugdncubfuvzcru.zsfrabocudaoubf
du.zfcrdfrucrdrouziu.qdftokuuBiuyzsudaouzsrcbxourqouSfbroxuCrdroc,u.qo.j
rqougdncuziuyzsau.zsfrayubfudxxbrbzfurzurqouroavcuziurqbcudtaoovofr
moizaouxznfgzdxbft,u.z ybft,uxbc gdybft,u oaizavbft,uxbcrabmsrbftuza
.aodrbftuxoabpdrbpounzajcumdcoxuzfurqbcunzajuzaudfyuzrqoau azwo.r
Tsrofmoat-rvunzajkuuRqouIzsfxdrbzfuvdjocufzuao aocofrdrbzfcu.zf.oafbft
rqou.z yabtqrucrdrscuziudfyunzajubfudfyu.zsfrayuzsrcbxourqouSfbrox
Crdrock

1kOkuuSfgoccuyzsuqdpouaovzpoxudgguaoioaof.ocurzu azwo.ruTsrofmoat:

1kOk1kuuRqouizggznbftucofrof.o,unbrqud.rbpougbfjcurz,uzauzrqoaubvvoxbdro
d..occurz,urqouisggu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuGb.ofcouvscrud  odau azvbfofrgy
nqofopoaudfyu.z yuziudu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvunzaju(dfyunzajuzfunqb.qurqo
 qadcou“ azwo.ruTsrofmoat”ud  odac,uzaunbrqunqb.qurqou qadcou“ azwo.r
Tsrofmoat”ubcudccz.bdrox)ubcud..occox,uxbc gdyox,u oaizavox,upbonox,
.z boxuzauxbcrabmsrox:

RqbcuoMzzjubcuizaurqouscouziudfyzfoudfynqoaoudrufzu.zcrudfxunbrq
dgvzcrufzuaocrab.rbzfcunqdrczopoakuuYzsuvdyu.z yubr,utbpoubrudndyuza
ao-scoubrusfxoaurqouroavcuziurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoatuGb.ofcoubf.gsxox
nbrqurqbcuoMzzjuzauzfgbfoudrunnnktsrofmoatkzat

1kOk2kuuBiudfubfxbpbxsdgu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.unzajubcuxoabpox
iazvurqou smgb.uxzvdbfu(xzocufzru.zfrdbfudufzrb.oubfxb.drbfturqdrubrubc
 zcroxunbrqu oavbccbzfuziurqou.z yabtqruqzgxoa),urqounzaju.dfumou.z box
dfxuxbcrabmsroxurzudfyzfoubfurqouSfbroxuCrdrocunbrqzsru dybftudfyuiooc
zau.qdatockuuBiuyzsudaouaoxbcrabmsrbftuzau azpbxbftud..occurzudunzaj
nbrqurqou qadcou“ azwo.ruTsrofmoat”udccz.bdroxunbrquzaud  odabftuzfurqo
nzaj,uyzsuvscru.zv gyuobrqoaunbrqurqouaoesbaovofrcuziu dadtad qcu1kOk1
rqazstqu1kOk7uzauzmrdbfu oavbccbzfuizaurqouscouziurqounzajudfxurqo
 azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuradxovdajudcucoruizarqubfu dadtad qcu1kOk8uza
1kOk9k

1kOk3kuuBiudfubfxbpbxsdgu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.unzajubcu zcrox
nbrqurqou oavbccbzfuziurqou.z yabtqruqzgxoa,uyzsauscoudfxuxbcrabmsrbzf
vscru.zv gyunbrqumzrqu dadtad qcu1kOk1urqazstqu1kOk7udfxudfyudxxbrbzfdg
roavcubv zcoxumyurqou.z yabtqruqzgxoakuuDxxbrbzfdguroavcunbggumougbfjox
rzurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuGb.ofcouizaudggunzajcu zcroxunbrqurqo
 oavbccbzfuziurqou.z yabtqruqzgxoauizsfxudrurqoumotbffbftuziurqbcunzajk

1kOk4kuuXzufzrusfgbfjuzauxord.quzauaovzpourqouisggu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rv
Gb.ofcouroavcuiazvurqbcunzaj,uzaudfyuibgocu.zfrdbfbftudu daruziurqbc
nzajuzaudfyuzrqoaunzajudccz.bdroxunbrqu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvk

1kOk5kuuXzufzru.z y,uxbc gdy,u oaizav,uxbcrabmsrouzauaoxbcrabmsrourqbc
ogo.razfb.unzaj,uzaudfyu daruziurqbcuogo.razfb.unzaj,unbrqzsr
 azvbfofrgyuxbc gdybfturqoucofrof.oucoruizarqubfu dadtad qu1kOk1unbrq
d.rbpougbfjcuzaubvvoxbdroud..occurzurqouisgguroavcuziurqou azwo.r
Tsrofmoat-rvuGb.ofcok

1kOk6kuuYzsuvdyu.zfpoarurzudfxuxbcrabmsrourqbcunzajubfudfyumbfday,
.zv aoccox,uvdajoxus ,ufzf az abordayuzau az abordayuizav,ubf.gsxbftudfy
nzaxu az.occbftuzauqy oarohruizavkuuQznopoa,ubiuyzsu azpbxoud..occurzuza
xbcrabmsrou.z bocuziudu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvunzajubfuduizavdruzrqoaurqdf
“ gdbfuPdfbggduDC.BB”uzauzrqoauizavdruscoxubfurqouziib.bdgupoacbzf
 zcroxuzfurqouziib.bdgu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvunomucbrou(nnnktsrofmoatkzat),
yzsuvscr,udrufzudxxbrbzfdgu.zcr,uioouzauoh ofcourzurqouscoa,u azpbxoud
.z y,uduvodfcuziuoh zarbftudu.z y,uzauduvodfcuziuzmrdbfbftudu.z yus zf
aoesocr,uziurqounzajubfubrcuzabtbfdgu“ gdbfuPdfbggduDC.BB”uzauzrqoa
izavkuuDfyudgroafdrouizavdruvscrubf.gsxourqouisggu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rv
Gb.ofcoudcuc o.biboxubfu dadtad qu1kOk1k

1kOk7kuuXzufzru.qdatouduioouizaud..occurz,upbonbft,uxbc gdybft,
 oaizavbft,u.z ybftuzauxbcrabmsrbftudfyu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvunzajc
sfgoccuyzsu.zv gyunbrqu dadtad qu1kOk8uzau1kOk9k

1kOk8kuuYzsuvdyu.qdatouduaodczfdmgouioouizau.z bocuziuzau azpbxbft
d..occurzuzauxbcrabmsrbftu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.unzajcu azpbxox
rqdr

-uYzsu dyuduazydgryuioouziu20%uziurqoutazccu azibrcuyzsuxoabpouiazv
uuuuurqouscouziu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvunzajcu.dg.sgdroxuscbfturqouvorqzx
uuuuuyzsudgaodxyuscourzu.dg.sgdrouyzsaud  gb.dmgourdhockuuRqouiooubc
uuuuuznoxurzurqouznfoauziurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuradxovdaj,umsruqo
uuuuuqdcudtaooxurzuxzfdrouazydgrbocusfxoaurqbcu dadtad qurzurqo
uuuuu azwo.ruTsrofmoatuGbroadayuDa.qbpouIzsfxdrbzfkuuAzydgryu dyvofrc
uuuuuvscrumou dbxunbrqbfu60uxdycuizggznbftuod.quxdrouzfunqb.quyzs
uuuuu ao daou(zaudaougotdggyuaoesbaoxurzu ao dao)uyzsau oabzxb.urdh
uuuuuaorsafckuuAzydgryu dyvofrcucqzsgxumou.godagyuvdajoxudcucs.qudfx
uuuuucofrurzurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoatuGbroadayuDa.qbpouIzsfxdrbzfudrurqo
uuuuudxxaoccuc o.biboxubfuCo.rbzfu4,u“Bfizavdrbzfudmzsruxzfdrbzfcurz
uuuuurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoatuGbroadayuDa.qbpouIzsfxdrbzfk”
u
-uYzsu azpbxouduisgguaoisfxuziudfyuvzfoyu dbxumyuduscoaunqzufzrbiboc
uuuuuyzsubfunabrbftu(zaumyuo-vdbg)unbrqbfu30uxdycuziuao.ob rurqdruc/qo
uuuuuxzocufzrudtaoourzurqouroavcuziurqouisggu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rv
uuuuuGb.ofcokuuYzsuvscruaoesbaoucs.quduscoaurzuaorsafuza
uuuuuxocrazyudggu.z bocuziurqounzajcu zccoccoxubfudu qycb.dguvoxbsv
uuuuudfxuxbc.zfrbfsoudgguscouziudfxudggud..occurzuzrqoau.z bocuzi
uuuuu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvunzajck

-uYzsu azpbxo,ubfud..zaxdf.ounbrqu dadtad qu1kIk3,uduisgguaoisfxuziudfy
uuuuuvzfoyu dbxuizaudunzajuzauduao gd.ovofru.z y,ubiuduxoio.rubfurqo
uuuuuogo.razfb.unzajubcuxbc.zpoaoxudfxuao zaroxurzuyzsunbrqbfu90uxdyc
uuuuuziuao.ob ruziurqounzajk

-uYzsu.zv gyunbrqudgguzrqoauroavcuziurqbcudtaoovofruizauiaoo
uuuuuxbcrabmsrbzfuziu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvunzajck

1kOk9kuuBiuyzsunbcqurzu.qdatouduioouzauxbcrabmsroudu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rv
ogo.razfb.unzajuzautazs uziunzajcuzfuxbiioaofruroavcurqdfudaoucor
izarqubfurqbcudtaoovofr,uyzsuvscruzmrdbfu oavbccbzfubfunabrbftuiazv
mzrqurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoatuGbroadayuDa.qbpouIzsfxdrbzfudfxuVb.qdog
Qdar,urqouznfoauziurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuradxovdajkuu.zfrd.rurqo
IzsfxdrbzfudcucoruizarqubfuCo.rbzfu3umogznk

1kIk

1kIk1kuu azwo.ruTsrofmoatupzgsfrooacudfxuov gzyoocuoh ofxu.zfcbxoadmgo
oiizarurzubxofrbiy,uxzu.z yabtqruaocoda.quzf,uradfc.abmoudfxu azziaodx
 smgb.uxzvdbfunzajcubfu.aodrbfturqou azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rv
.zggo.rbzfkuuXoc brourqocouoiizarc,u azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.
nzajc,udfxurqouvoxbsvuzfunqb.qurqoyuvdyumoucrzaox,uvdyu.zfrdbf
“Xoio.rc,”ucs.qudc,umsrufzrugbvbroxurz,ubf.zv goro,ubfd..sadrouza
.zaas ruxdrd,uradfc.ab rbzfuoaazac,udu.z yabtqruzauzrqoaubfroggo.rsdg
 az oaryubfiabftovofr,uduxoio.rbpouzauxdvdtoxuxbcjuzauzrqoauvoxbsv,ud
.zv sroaupbasc,uzau.zv sroau.zxocurqdruxdvdtouzau.dffzrumouaodxumy
yzsauoesb vofrk

1kIk2kuuGBVBROXuNDAADFRY,uXBC.GDBVOAuZIuXDVDTOCu-uOh.o ruizaurqou“Abtqr
ziuAo gd.ovofruzauAoisfx”uxoc.abmoxubfu dadtad qu1kIk3,urqou azwo.r
TsrofmoatuGbroadayuDa.qbpouIzsfxdrbzf,urqouznfoauziurqou azwo.r
Tsrofmoat-rvuradxovdaj,udfxudfyuzrqoau daryuxbcrabmsrbftudu azwo.r
Tsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.unzajusfxoaurqbcudtaoovofr,uxbc.gdbvudgg
gbdmbgbryurzuyzsuizauxdvdtoc,u.zcrcudfxuoh ofcoc,ubf.gsxbftugotdg
ioockuuYZSuDTAOOuRQDRuYZSuQDPOuFZuAOVOXBOCuIZAuFOTGBTOF.O,uCRAB.R
GBDMBGBRY,uMAOD.QuZIuNDAADFRYuZAuMAOD.QuZIu.ZFRAD.RuOH.O RuRQZCO
 AZPBXOXuBFu DADTAD QuI3kuuYZSuDTAOOuRQDRuRQOuIZSFXDRBZF,uRQO
RADXOVDAJuZNFOA,uDFXuDFYuXBCRABMSRZAuSFXOAuRQBCuDTAOOVOFRuNBGGuFZRuMO
GBDMGOuRZuYZSuIZAuD.RSDG,uXBAO.R,uBFXBAO.R,u.ZFCOESOFRBDG,u SFBRBPOuZA
BF.BXOFRDGuXDVDTOCuOPOFuBIuYZSuTBPOuFZRB.OuZIuRQOu ZCCBMBGBRYuZIuCS.Q
XDVDTOk

1kIk3kuuGBVBROXuABTQRuZIuAO GD.OVOFRuZAuAOISFXu-uBiuyzsuxbc.zpoaud
xoio.rubfurqbcuogo.razfb.unzajunbrqbfu90uxdycuziuao.obpbftubr,uyzsu.df
ao.obpouduaoisfxuziurqouvzfoyu(biudfy)uyzsu dbxuizaubrumyucofxbftud
nabrrofuoh gdfdrbzfurzurqou oaczfuyzsuao.obpoxurqounzajuiazvkuuBiuyzs
ao.obpoxurqounzajuzfudu qycb.dguvoxbsv,uyzsuvscruaorsafurqouvoxbsvunbrq
yzsaunabrrofuoh gdfdrbzfkuuRqou oaczfuzauofrbryurqdru azpbxoxuyzsunbrq
rqouxoio.rbpounzajuvdyuogo.rurzu azpbxouduao gd.ovofru.z yubfugbosuziud
aoisfxkuuBiuyzsuao.obpoxurqounzajuogo.razfb.dggy,urqou oaczfuzauofrbry
 azpbxbftubrurzuyzsuvdyu.qzzcourzutbpouyzsuduco.zfxuz  zarsfbryurz
ao.obpourqounzajuogo.razfb.dggyubfugbosuziuduaoisfxkuuBiurqouco.zfxu.z y
bcudgczuxoio.rbpo,uyzsuvdyuxovdfxuduaoisfxubfunabrbftunbrqzsruisarqoa
z  zarsfbrbocurzuibhurqou azmgovk

1kIk4kuuOh.o ruizaurqougbvbroxuabtqruziuao gd.ovofruzauaoisfxucoruizarq
bfu dadtad qu1kIk3,urqbcunzajubcu azpbxoxurzuyzsu‘DC-BC’uNBRQuFZuZRQOA
NDAADFRBOCuZIuDFYuJBFX,uOH AOCCuZAuBV GBOX,uBF.GSXBFTuMSRuFZRuGBVBROXuRZ
NDAADFRBOCuZIuVOA.QDFRBMBGBRYuZAuIBRFOCCuIZAuDFYu SA ZCOk

1kIk5kuuCzvoucrdrocuxzufzrudggznuxbc.gdbvoacuziu.oardbfubv gbox
ndaadfrbocuzaurqouoh.gscbzfuzaugbvbrdrbzfuziu.oardbfury ocuziuxdvdtock
Biudfyuxbc.gdbvoauzaugbvbrdrbzfucoruizarqubfurqbcudtaoovofrupbzgdrocurqo
gdnuziurqoucrdroud  gb.dmgourzurqbcudtaoovofr,urqoudtaoovofrucqdggumo
bfroa aoroxurzuvdjourqouvdhbvsvuxbc.gdbvoauzaugbvbrdrbzfu oavbrroxumy
rqoud  gb.dmgoucrdrougdnkuuRqoubfpdgbxbryuzausfofiza.odmbgbryuziudfy
 azpbcbzfuziurqbcudtaoovofrucqdggufzrupzbxurqouaovdbfbftu azpbcbzfck

1kIk6kuuBFXOVFBRYu-uYzsudtaoourzubfxovfbiyudfxuqzgxurqouIzsfxdrbzf,urqo
radxovdajuznfoa,udfyudtofruzauov gzyoouziurqouIzsfxdrbzf,udfyzfo
 azpbxbftu.z bocuziu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.unzajcubfud..zaxdf.o
nbrqurqbcudtaoovofr,udfxudfyupzgsfrooacudccz.bdroxunbrqurqou azxs.rbzf,
 azvzrbzfudfxuxbcrabmsrbzfuziu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.unzajc,
qdavgoccuiazvudggugbdmbgbry,u.zcrcudfxuoh ofcoc,ubf.gsxbftugotdguiooc,
rqdrudabcouxbao.rgyuzaubfxbao.rgyuiazvudfyuziurqouizggznbftunqb.quyzsuxz
zau.dscourzuz..sa:u(d)uxbcrabmsrbzfuziurqbcuzaudfyu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rv
nzaj,u(m)udgroadrbzf,uvzxbib.drbzf,uzaudxxbrbzfcuzauxogorbzfcurzudfy
 azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvunzaj,udfxu(.)udfyuXoio.ruyzsu.dscok


Co.rbzfuu2kuuBfizavdrbzfudmzsrurqouVbccbzfuziu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rv

 azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvubcucyfzfyvzscunbrqurqouiaoouxbcrabmsrbzfuzi
ogo.razfb.unzajcubfuizavdrcuaodxdmgoumyurqounbxocrupdaboryuziu.zv sroac
bf.gsxbftuzmczgoro,uzgx,uvbxxgo-dtoxudfxufonu.zv sroackuuBruohbcrc
mo.dscouziurqouoiizarcuziuqsfxaoxcuziupzgsfrooacudfxuxzfdrbzfcuiazv
 oz goubfudggundgjcuziugbiok

Pzgsfrooacudfxuibfdf.bdgucs  zarurzu azpbxoupzgsfrooacunbrqurqo
dccbcrdf.ourqoyufoox,ubcu.abrb.dgurzuaod.qbftu azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rv’c
tzdgcudfxuofcsabfturqdrurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvu.zggo.rbzfunbgg
aovdbfuiaoogyudpdbgdmgouizautofoadrbzfcurzu.zvokuuBfu2001,urqou azwo.r
TsrofmoatuGbroadayuDa.qbpouIzsfxdrbzfundcu.aodroxurzu azpbxouduco.sao
dfxu oavdfofruisrsaouizau azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvudfxuisrsaoutofoadrbzfck
Rzugodafuvzaoudmzsrurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoatuGbroadayuDa.qbpouIzsfxdrbzf
dfxuqznuyzsauoiizarcudfxuxzfdrbzfcu.dfuqog ,ucoouCo.rbzfcu3udfxu4
dfxurqouIzsfxdrbzfunomu dtoudruqrr ://nnnk tgdikzatk


Co.rbzfu3kuuBfizavdrbzfudmzsrurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoatuGbroadayuDa.qbpo
Izsfxdrbzf

Rqou azwo.ruTsrofmoatuGbroadayuDa.qbpouIzsfxdrbzfubcudufzfu azibr
501(.)(3)uoxs.drbzfdgu.za zadrbzfuzatdfbloxusfxoaurqougdncuziurqo
crdrouziuVbccbccb  budfxutadfroxurdhuohov rucrdrscumyurqouBfroafdg
AopofsouCoapb.okuuRqouIzsfxdrbzf’cuOBFuzauioxoadgurdhubxofrbib.drbzf
fsvmoaubcu64-6221541kuuBrcu501(.)(3)ugorroaubcu zcroxudr
qrr :// tgdikzat/isfxadbcbftkuu.zfrabmsrbzfcurzurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoat
GbroadayuDa.qbpouIzsfxdrbzfudaourdhuxoxs.rbmgourzurqouisgguohrofr
 oavbrroxumyuSkCkuioxoadgugdncudfxuyzsaucrdro’cugdnck

RqouIzsfxdrbzf’cu abf.b dguziib.oubcugz.droxudru4557uVogdfuXakuCk
Idbamdfjc,uDJ,u99712k,umsrubrcupzgsfrooacudfxuov gzyoocudaouc.drroaox
rqazstqzsrufsvoazscugz.drbzfckuuBrcumscbfoccuziib.oubcugz.droxudr
809uFzarqu1500uNocr,uCdgruGdjou.bry,uSRu84116,u(801)u596-1887,uovdbg
mscbfocc@ tgdikzatkuuOvdbgu.zfrd.rugbfjcudfxus urzuxdrou.zfrd.r
bfizavdrbzfu.dfumouizsfxudrurqouIzsfxdrbzf’cunomucbroudfxuziib.bdg
 dtoudruqrr :// tgdikzat

Izaudxxbrbzfdgu.zfrd.rubfizavdrbzf:
uuuuuXakuTaotzayuMkuFonmy
uuuuu.qboiuOho.srbpoudfxuXbao.rza
uuuuutmfonmy@ tgdikzat


Co.rbzfu4kuuBfizavdrbzfudmzsruXzfdrbzfcurzurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoat
GbroadayuDa.qbpouIzsfxdrbzf

 azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuxo ofxcus zfudfxu.dffzrucsapbpounbrqzsrunbxo
c aodxu smgb.ucs  zarudfxuxzfdrbzfcurzu.daayuzsrubrcuvbccbzfuzi
bf.aodcbfturqoufsvmoauziu smgb.uxzvdbfudfxugb.ofcoxunzajcurqdru.dfumo
iaoogyuxbcrabmsroxubfuvd.qbfouaodxdmgouizavud..occbmgoumyurqounbxocr
daadyuziuoesb vofrubf.gsxbftuzsrxdroxuoesb vofrkuuVdfyucvdgguxzfdrbzfc
($1urzu$5,000)udaou darb.sgdagyubv zardfrurzuvdbfrdbfbfturdhuohov r
crdrscunbrqurqouBACk

RqouIzsfxdrbzfubcu.zvvbrroxurzu.zv gybftunbrqurqougdncuaotsgdrbft
.qdabrbocudfxu.qdabrdmgouxzfdrbzfcubfudggu50ucrdrocuziurqouSfbrox
Crdrockuu.zv gbdf.ouaoesbaovofrcudaoufzrusfbizavudfxubrurdjocud
.zfcbxoadmgouoiizar,uvs.qu d oanzajudfxuvdfyuioocurzuvoorudfxujoo us 
nbrqurqocouaoesbaovofrckuuNouxzufzruczgb.bruxzfdrbzfcubfugz.drbzfc
nqoaounouqdpoufzruao.obpoxunabrrofu.zfibavdrbzfuziu.zv gbdf.okuuRz
COFXuXZFDRBZFCuzauxoroavbfourqoucrdrscuziu.zv gbdf.ouizaudfy
 darb.sgdaucrdroupbcbruqrr :// tgdikzat

Nqbgounou.dffzrudfxuxzufzruczgb.bru.zfrabmsrbzfcuiazvucrdrocunqoaouno
qdpoufzruvorurqouczgb.brdrbzfuaoesbaovofrc,unoujfznuziufzu azqbmbrbzf
dtdbfcrud..o rbftusfczgb.broxuxzfdrbzfcuiazvuxzfzacubfucs.qucrdrocunqz
d  azd.quscunbrquziioacurzuxzfdrok

Bfroafdrbzfdguxzfdrbzfcudaoutadroisggyud..o rox,umsrunou.dffzruvdjo
dfyucrdrovofrcu.zf.oafbfturdhuraodrvofruziuxzfdrbzfcuao.obpoxuiazv
zsrcbxourqouSfbroxuCrdrockuuSkCkugdncudgzfoucndv uzsaucvdggucrdiik

 godcou.qo.jurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoatuNomu dtocuizau.saaofruxzfdrbzf
vorqzxcudfxudxxaoccockuuXzfdrbzfcudaoud..o roxubfudufsvmoauziuzrqoa
ndycubf.gsxbftu.qo.jc,uzfgbfou dyvofrcudfxu.aoxbru.daxuxzfdrbzfck
Rzuxzfdro,u godcoupbcbr:uqrr :// tgdikzat/xzfdro


Co.rbzfu5kuuTofoadguBfizavdrbzfuDmzsru azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuogo.razfb.
nzajck

 aziocczauVb.qdoguCkuQdarubcurqouzabtbfdrzauziurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rv
.zf.o ruziudugbmadayuziuogo.razfb.unzajcurqdru.zsgxumouiaoogyucqdaox
nbrqudfyzfokuuIzaurqbaryuyodac,uqou azxs.oxudfxuxbcrabmsroxu azwo.r
Tsrofmoat-rvuoMzzjcunbrquzfgyudugzzcoufornzajuziupzgsfrooaucs  zark


 azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rvuoMzzjcudaouzirofu.aodroxuiazvucopoadgu abfrox
oxbrbzfc,udgguziunqb.qudaou.zfibavoxudcu smgb.uXzvdbfubfurqouSkCk
sfgoccudu.z yabtqrufzrb.oubcubf.gsxoxkuuRqsc,unouxzufzrufo.occdabgy
joo uoMzzjcubfu.zv gbdf.ounbrqudfyu darb.sgdau d oauoxbrbzfk


Vzcru oz goucrdarudruzsauNomucbrounqb.quqdcurqouvdbfu Tucoda.quid.bgbry:

uuuuuqrr ://nnnktsrofmoatkzat

RqbcuNomucbroubf.gsxocubfizavdrbzfudmzsru azwo.ruTsrofmoat-rv,
bf.gsxbftuqznurzuvdjouxzfdrbzfcurzurqou azwo.ruTsrofmoatuGbroaday
Da.qbpouIzsfxdrbzf,uqznurzuqog u azxs.ouzsaufonuoMzzjc,udfxuqznurz
csmc.abmourzuzsauovdbgufoncgorroaurzuqodaudmzsrufonuoMzzjck



