Ko.qVprqnyqko.qVnrhbw

Arng.jkqLfk.ui.rl'wqKo.qVprqnyqko.qVnrhbw,qizqOsqLsqV.hhw

Kotwq.Inn qtwqynrqko.qfw.qnyqpuznu.qpuzvo.r.qtuqko.qFutk.bqWkpk.wqpubqenwk
nko.rqaprkwqnyqko.qvnrhbqpkqunqjnwkqpubqvtkoqphenwkqunqr.wkrtjktnuw
vopkwn.c.rsqZnfqepzqjnazqtk,qltc.qtkqpvpzqnrqr.-fw.qtkqfub.rqko.qk.rewqny
ko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqHtj.uw.qtujhfb.bqvtkoqkotwq.Inn qnrqnuhtu.qpk
vvvslfk.ui.rlsnrlsqTyqznfqpr.qunkqhnjpk.bqtuqko.qFutk.bqWkpk.w,qznf'hhqopc.
knqjo.j qko.qhpvwqnyqko.qjnfukrzqvo.r.qznfqpr.qhnjpk.bqi.ynr.qfwtulqkotwq.inn s



Ktkh.:qKo.qVprqnyqko.qVnrhbw

Pfkonr:qOsqLsqV.hhw

R.h.pw.qBpk.:qGfhzq1992q[.Inn q#36]
HpwkqFabpk.b:qGfu.q5,q2018

Hpulfpl.:q.ulhtwo

Joprpjk.rqw.kq.ujnbtul:qFKY-8

***qWKPRKqNYqKOTWqARNG.JKqLFK.UI.RLq.INN qKO.qVPRqNYqKO.qVNRHBWq***





izqOsqLsqV.hhw



qqq‘Ifkqvonqwophhqbv.hhqtuqko.w.qvnrhbwqtyqko.zqi.qtuopitk.b?
qqqqsqsqsqPr.qv.qnrqko.zqHnrbwqnyqko.qVnrhb?qsqsqsqPub
qqqqonvqpr.qphhqkotulwqepb.qynrqepu?’

qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq .AH.Rq(xfnk.bqtuq_Ko.qPupknezqnyqE.hpujonhz_)


Jnuk.ukw


qINN qNU.s—KO.qJNETULqNYqKO.qEPRKTPUW

qTsqKO.q.C.qNYqKO.qVPR
qTTsqKO.qYPHHTULqWKPRs
qTTTsqNUqONRW.HHqJNEENUs
qTCsqKO.qJZHTUB.RqNA.UWs
qCsqKO.qO.PK-RPZs
qCTsqKO.qO.PK-RPZqTUqKO.qJONIOPEqRNPBs
qCTTsqONVqTqR.PJO.BqONE.s
qCTTTsqYRTBPZqUTLOKs
qTMsqKO.qYTLOKTULqI.LTUWs
qMsqTUqKO.qWKNREs
qMTsqPKqKO.qVTUBNVs
qMTTsqVOPKqTqWPVqNYqKO.qB.WKRFJKTNUqNYqV.ZIRTBL.qPUBqWO.AA.RKNUs
qMTTTsqONVqTqY.HHqTUqVTKOqKO.qJFRPK.s
qMTCsqTUqHNUBNUs
qMCsqVOPKqOPBqOPAA.U.BqTUqWFRR.Zs
qMCTsqKO.q.MNBFWqYRNEqHNUBNUs
qMCTTsqKO.q“KOFUB.RqJOTHB”s

qINN qKVNs—KO.q.PRKOqFUB.RqKO.qEPRKTPUW

qTsqFUB.RqYNNKs
qTTsqVOPKqV.qWPVqYRNEqKO.qRFTU.BqONFW.s
qTTTsqKO.qBPZWqNYqTEARTWNUE.UKs
qCTsqKO.qB.PKOqNYqKO.qJFRPK.s
qCsqKO.qWKTHHU.WWs
qCTsqKO.qVNR qNYqYTYK..UqBPZWs
qCTTsqKO.qEPUqNUqAFKU.ZqOTHHs
qCTTTsqB.PBqHNUBNUs
qTMsqVR.J PL.s
qMsqKO.q.ATHNLF.s



INN qNU.

KO.qJNETULqNYqKO.qEPRKTPUW




Ts

KO.q.C.qNYqKO.qVPRs

Unqnu.qvnfhbqopc.qi.ht.c.bqtuqko.qhpwkqz.prwqnyqko.qutu.k..ukoqj.ukfrz
kopkqkotwqvnrhbqvpwqi.tulqvpkjo.bq ..uhzqpubqjhnw.hzqizqtuk.hhtl.uj.w
lr.pk.rqkopuqepu’wqpubqz.kqpwqenrkphqpwqotwqnvu;qkopkqpwqe.uqifwt.b
ko.ew.hc.wqpinfkqko.trqcprtnfwqjnuj.ruwqko.zqv.r.qwjrfktutw.bqpub
wkfbt.b,qa.ropawqphenwkqpwquprrnvhzqpwqpqepuqvtkoqpqetjrnwjna.qetlok
wjrfktutw.qko.qkrpuwt.ukqjr.pkfr.wqkopkqwvpreqpubqefhktahzqtuqpqbrnaqny
vpk.rsqVtkoqtuytutk.qjneahpj.ujzqe.uqv.ukqknqpubqyrnqnc.rqkotwqlhni.
pinfkqko.trqhtkkh.qpyyptrw,qw.r.u.qtuqko.trqpwwfrpuj.qnyqko.trq.eatr.
nc.rqepkk.rsqTkqtwqanwwtih.qkopkqko.qtuyfwnrtpqfub.rqko.qetjrnwjna.qbn
ko.qwpe.sqUnqnu.qlpc.qpqkonflokqknqko.qnhb.rqvnrhbwqnyqwapj.qpwqwnfrj.w
nyqofepuqbpul.r,qnrqkonflokqnyqko.eqnuhzqknqbtwetwwqko.qtb.pqnyqhty.
fanuqko.eqpwqteanwwtih.qnrqtearnipih.sqTkqtwqjfrtnfwqknqr.jphhqwne.qny
ko.qe.ukphqopitkwqnyqkonw.qb.aprk.bqbpzwsqPkqenwkqk.rr.wkrtphqe.u
ypujt.bqko.r.qetlokqi.qnko.rqe.uqfanuqEprw,qa.ropawqtuy.rtnrqkn
ko.ew.hc.wqpubqr.pbzqknqv.hjne.qpqetwwtnuprzq.uk.rartw.sqZ.kqpjrnwwqko.
lfhyqnyqwapj.,qetubwqkopkqpr.qknqnfrqetubwqpwqnfrwqpr.qknqkonw.qnyqko.
i.pwkwqkopkqa.rtwo,qtuk.hh.jkwqcpwkqpubqjnnhqpubqfuwzeapko.ktj,
r.lprb.bqkotwq.prkoqvtkoq.uctnfwq.z.w,qpubqwhnvhzqpubqwfr.hzqbr.vqko.tr
ahpuwqplptuwkqfwsqPubq.prhzqtuqko.qkv.ukt.koqj.ukfrzqjpe.qko.qlr.pk
btwthhfwtnue.uks

Ko.qahpu.kqEprw,qTqwjprj.hzqu..bqr.etubqko.qr.pb.r,qr.cnhc.wqpinfkqko.
wfuqpkqpqe.puqbtwkpuj.qnyq140,000,000qeth.w,qpubqko.qhtlokqpubqo.pkqtk
r.j.tc.wqyrneqko.qwfuqtwqipr.hzqophyqnyqkopkqr.j.tc.bqizqkotwqvnrhbsqTk
efwkqi.,qtyqko.qu.ifhprqozanko.wtwqopwqpuzqkrfko,qnhb.rqkopuqnfrqvnrhb;
pubqhnulqi.ynr.qkotwq.prkoqj.pw.bqknqi.qenhk.u,qhty.qfanuqtkwqwfrypj.
efwkqopc.qi.lfuqtkwqjnfrw.sqKo.qypjkqkopkqtkqtwqwjprj.hzqnu.qw.c.ukoqny
ko.qcnhfe.qnyqko.q.prkoqefwkqopc.qpjj.h.rpk.bqtkwqjnnhtulqknqko.
k.ea.rpkfr.qpkqvotjoqhty.qjnfhbqi.ltusqTkqopwqptrqpubqvpk.rqpubqphh
kopkqtwqu.j.wwprzqynrqko.qwfaanrkqnyqputepk.bq.mtwk.uj.s

Z.kqwnqcptuqtwqepu,qpubqwnqihtub.bqizqotwqcputkz,qkopkqunqvrtk.r,qfaqkn
ko.qc.rzq.ubqnyqko.qutu.k..ukoqj.ukfrz,q.mar.ww.bqpuzqtb.pqkopk
tuk.hhtl.ukqhty.qetlokqopc.qb.c.hna.bqko.r.qypr,qnrqtub..bqpkqphh,
i.znubqtkwq.prkohzqh.c.hsqUnrqvpwqtkql.u.rphhzqfub.rwknnbqkopkqwtuj.
Eprwqtwqnhb.rqkopuqnfrq.prko,qvtkoqwjprj.hzqpqxfprk.rqnyqko.
wfa.rytjtphqpr.pqpubqr.enk.rqyrneqko.qwfu,qtkqu.j.wwprthzqynhhnvwqkopk
tkqtwqunkqnuhzqenr.qbtwkpukqyrneqkte.’wqi.ltuutulqifkqu.pr.rqtkwq.ubs

Ko.qw.jfhprqjnnhtulqkopkqefwkqwne.bpzqnc.rkp .qnfrqahpu.kqopwqphr.pbz
lnu.qyprqtub..bqvtkoqnfrqu.tloinfrsqTkwqaozwtjphqjnubtktnuqtwqwkthh
hprl.hzqpqezwk.rz,qifkqv.q unvqunvqkopkq.c.uqtuqtkwq.xfpknrtphqr.ltnu
ko.qetbbpzqk.ea.rpkfr.qipr.hzqpaarnpjo.wqkopkqnyqnfrqjnhb.wkqvtuk.rs
Tkwqptrqtwqefjoqenr.qpkk.ufpk.bqkopuqnfrw,qtkwqnj.puwqopc.qworfu qfukth
ko.zqjnc.rqifkqpqkotrbqnyqtkwqwfrypj.,qpubqpwqtkwqwhnvqw.pwnuwqjopul.
ofl.qwunvjpawqlpko.rqpubqe.hkqpinfkq.tko.rqanh.qpubqa.rtnbtjphhz
tufubpk.qtkwqk.ea.rpk.qdnu.wsqKopkqhpwkqwkpl.qnyq.mopfwktnu,qvotjoqkn
fwqtwqwkthhqtujr.btihzqr.enk.,qopwqi.jne.qpqar.w.uk-bpzqarnih.eqynrqko.
tuopitkpukwqnyqEprwsqKo.qtee.btpk.qar.wwfr.qnyqu.j.wwtkzqopwqirtlok.u.b
ko.trqtuk.hh.jkw,q.uhprl.bqko.trqanv.rw,qpubqoprb.u.bqko.trqo.prkwsqPub
hnn tulqpjrnwwqwapj.qvtkoqtuwkrfe.ukw,qpubqtuk.hhtl.uj.wqwfjoqpwqv.
opc.qwjprj.hzqbr.pe.bqny,qko.zqw..,qpkqtkwqu.pr.wkqbtwkpuj.qnuhz
35,000,000qnyqeth.wqwfuvprbqnyqko.e,qpqenrutulqwkprqnyqona.,qnfrqnvu
vpre.rqahpu.k,qlr..uqvtkoqc.l.kpktnuqpubqlr.zqvtkoqvpk.r,qvtkoqpqjhnfbz
pkenwao.r.q.hnxf.ukqnyqy.rkthtkz,qvtkoqlhteaw.wqkornfloqtkwqbrtyktul
jhnfbqvtwawqnyqirnpbqwkr.kjo.wqnyqanafhnfwqjnfukrzqpubquprrnv,
upcz-jrnvb.bqw.pws

Pubqv.qe.u,qko.qjr.pkfr.wqvonqtuopitkqkotwq.prko,qefwkqi.qknqko.eqpk
h.pwkqpwqpht.uqpubqhnvhzqpwqpr.qko.qenu .zwqpubqh.efrwqknqfwsqKo.
tuk.hh.jkfphqwtb.qnyqepuqphr.pbzqpbetkwqkopkqhty.qtwqpuqtuj.wwpuk
wkrfllh.qynrq.mtwk.uj.,qpubqtkqvnfhbqw..eqkopkqkotwqknnqtwqko.qi.ht.y
nyqko.qetubwqfanuqEprwsqKo.trqvnrhbqtwqyprqlnu.qtuqtkwqjnnhtulqpubqkotw
vnrhbqtwqwkthhqjrnvb.bqvtkoqhty.,qifkqjrnvb.bqnuhzqvtkoqvopkqko.z
r.lprbqpwqtuy.rtnrqputephwsqKnqjprrzqvprypr.qwfuvprbqtw,qtub..b,qko.tr
nuhzq.wjpa.qyrneqko.qb.wkrfjktnuqkopk,ql.u.rpktnuqpyk.rql.u.rpktnu,
jr..awqfanuqko.es

Pubqi.ynr.qv.qgfbl.qnyqko.eqknnqoprwohzqv.qefwkqr.e.ei.rqvopkqrfkoh.ww
pubqfkk.rqb.wkrfjktnuqnfrqnvuqwa.jt.wqopwqvrnflok,qunkqnuhzqfanu
putephw,qwfjoqpwqko.qcputwo.bqitwnuqpubqko.qbnbn,qifkqfanuqtkwqtuy.rtnr
rpj.wsqKo.qKpweputpuw,qtuqwatk.qnyqko.trqofepuqht .u.ww,qv.r.q.uktr.hz
wv.akqnfkqnyq.mtwk.uj.qtuqpqvprqnyq.mk.retupktnuqvpl.bqizq.frna.pu
teetlrpukw,qtuqko.qwapj.qnyqytykzqz.prwsqPr.qv.qwfjoqpanwkh.wqnyqe.rjz
pwqknqjneahptuqtyqko.qEprktpuwqvprr.bqtuqko.qwpe.qwatrtk?

Ko.qEprktpuwqw..eqknqopc.qjphjfhpk.bqko.trqb.wj.ukqvtkoqpepdtul
wfikh.kz—ko.trqepko.epktjphqh.prutulqtwq.ctb.ukhzqyprqtuq.mj.wwqny
nfrw—pubqknqopc.qjprrt.bqnfkqko.trqar.aprpktnuwqvtkoqpqv.hh-utlo
a.ry.jkqfuputetkzsqOpbqnfrqtuwkrfe.ukwqa.retkk.bqtk,qv.qetlokqopc.qw..u
ko.qlpko.rtulqkrnfih.qyprqipj qtuqko.qutu.k..ukoqj.ukfrzsqE.uqht .
Wjotpapr.hhtqvpkjo.bqko.qr.bqahpu.k—tkqtwqnbb,qiz-ko.-iz.,qkopkqynr
jnfukh.wwqj.ukfrt.wqEprwqopwqi..uqko.qwkprqnyqvpr—ifkqypth.bqkn
tuk.rar.kqko.qyhfjkfpktulqpaa.prpuj.wqnyqko.qepr tulwqko.zqepaa.bqwn
v.hhsqPhhqkopkqkte.qko.qEprktpuwqefwkqopc.qi..uql.kktulqr.pbzs

Bfrtulqko.qnaanwtktnuqnyq1894qpqlr.pkqhtlokqvpwqw..uqnuqko.qthhfetupk.b
aprkqnyqko.qbtw ,qytrwkqpkqko.qHtj qNiw.rcpknrz,qko.uqizqA.rrnktuqny
Utj.,qpubqko.uqizqnko.rqniw.rc.rwsq.ulhtwoqr.pb.rwqo.prbqnyqtkqytrwkqtu
ko.qtwwf.qnyq_Upkfr._qbpk.bqPflfwkq2sqTqpeqtujhtu.bqknqkotu qkopkqkotw
ihpd.qepzqopc.qi..uqko.qjpwktulqnyqko.qofl.qlfu,qtuqko.qcpwkqatkqwfu 
tuknqko.trqahpu.k,qyrneqvotjoqko.trqwonkwqv.r.qytr.bqpkqfwsqA.jfhtpr
epr tulw,qpwqz.kqfu.mahptu.b,qv.r.qw..uqu.prqko.qwtk.qnyqkopkqnfkir.p 
bfrtulqko.qu.mkqkvnqnaanwtktnuws

Ko.qwknreqifrwkqfanuqfwqwtmqz.prwqplnqunvsqPwqEprwqpaarnpjo.b
naanwtktnu,qHpc.hh.qnyqGpcpqw.kqko.qvtr.wqnyqko.qpwkrnunetjphq.mjopul.
aphatkpktulqvtkoqko.qpepdtulqtuk.hhtl.uj.qnyqpqofl.qnfkir.p qny
tujpub.wj.ukqlpwqfanuqko.qahpu.ksqTkqopbqnjjfrr.bqknvprbwqetbutlokqny
ko.qkv.hyko;qpubqko.qwa.jkrnwjna.,qknqvotjoqo.qopbqpkqnuj.qr.wnrk.b,
tubtjpk.bqpqepwwqnyqyhpetulqlpw,qjot.yhzqozbrnl.u,qenctulqvtkoqpu
.unrenfwqc.hnjtkzqknvprbwqkotwq.prkosqKotwqg.kqnyqytr.qopbqi.jne.
tuctwtih.qpinfkqpqxfprk.rqapwkqkv.hc.sqO.qjneapr.bqtkqknqpqjnhnwwph
afyyqnyqyhpe.qwfbb.uhzqpubqctnh.ukhzqwxftrk.bqnfkqnyqko.qahpu.k,q“pw
yhpetulqlpw.wqrfwo.bqnfkqnyqpqlfus”

Pqwtulfhprhzqpaarnartpk.qaorpw.qtkqarnc.bsqZ.kqko.qu.mkqbpzqko.r.qvpw
unkotulqnyqkotwqtuqko.qapa.rwq.mj.akqpqhtkkh.qunk.qtuqko.q_Bpthz
K.h.lrpao_,qpubqko.qvnrhbqv.ukqtuqtlunrpuj.qnyqnu.qnyqko.qlrpc.wk
bpul.rwqkopkq.c.rqkor.pk.u.bqko.qofepuqrpj.sqTqetlokqunkqopc.qo.prbqny
ko.q.rfaktnuqpkqphhqopbqTqunkqe.kqNlthcz,qko.qv.hh- unvuqpwkrnune.r,qpk
Nkk.rwopvsqO.qvpwqtee.uw.hzq.mjtk.bqpkqko.qu.vw,qpubqtuqko.q.mj.wwqny
otwqy..htulwqtuctk.bqe.qfaqknqkp .qpqkfruqvtkoqoteqkopkqutlokqtuqp
wjrfktuzqnyqko.qr.bqahpu.ks

Tuqwatk.qnyqphhqkopkqopwqopaa.u.bqwtuj.,qTqwkthhqr.e.ei.rqkopkqctlth
c.rzqbtwktujkhz:qko.qihpj qpubqwth.ukqniw.rcpknrz,qko.qwopbnv.bqhpuk.ru
kornvtulqpqy..ih.qlhnvqfanuqko.qyhnnrqtuqko.qjnru.r,qko.qwk.pbzqktj tul
nyqko.qjhnj vnr qnyqko.qk.h.wjna.,qko.qhtkkh.qwhtkqtuqko.qrnny—pu
nihnulqarnyfubtkzqvtkoqko.qwkprbfwkqwkr.p .bqpjrnwwqtksqNlthczqenc.b
pinfk,qtuctwtih.qifkqpfbtih.sqHnn tulqkornfloqko.qk.h.wjna.,qnu.qwpvqp
jtrjh.qnyqb..aqihf.qpubqko.qhtkkh.qrnfubqahpu.kqwvteetulqtuqko.qyt.hbs
Tkqw..e.bqwfjoqpqhtkkh.qkotul,qwnqirtlokqpubqwephhqpubqwkthh,qyptukhz
epr .bqvtkoqkrpuwc.rw.qwkrta.w,qpubqwhtlokhzqyhpkk.u.bqyrneqko.qa.ry.jk
rnfubsqIfkqwnqhtkkh.qtkqvpw,qwnqwthc.rzqvpre—pqatu’wqo.pbqnyqhtlok!qTk
vpwqpwqtyqtkqxftc.r.b,qifkqr.phhzqkotwqvpwqko.qk.h.wjna.qctirpktulqvtko
ko.qpjktctkzqnyqko.qjhnj vnr qkopkq .akqko.qahpu.kqtuqct.vs

PwqTqvpkjo.b,qko.qahpu.kqw..e.bqknqlrnvqhprl.rqpubqwephh.rqpubqkn
pbcpuj.qpubqr.j.b.,qifkqkopkqvpwqwteahzqkopkqezq.z.qvpwqktr.bsqYnrkz
ethhtnuwqnyqeth.wqtkqvpwqyrneqfw—enr.qkopuqynrkzqethhtnuwqnyqeth.wqny
cntbsqY.vqa.nah.qr.phtw.qko.qtee.uwtkzqnyqcpjpujzqtuqvotjoqko.qbfwkqny
ko.qepk.rtphqfutc.rw.qwvtews

U.prqtkqtuqko.qyt.hb,qTqr.e.ei.r,qv.r.qkor..qyptukqantukwqnyqhtlok,
kor..qk.h.wjnatjqwkprwqtuytutk.hzqr.enk.,qpubqphhqprnfubqtkqvpwqko.
fuypkonepih.qbpr u.wwqnyq.eakzqwapj.sqZnfq unvqonvqkopkqihpj u.wwqhnn w
nuqpqyrnwkzqwkprhtlokqutloksqTuqpqk.h.wjna.qtkqw..ewqyprqarnynfub.rs
Pubqtuctwtih.qknqe.qi.jpfw.qtkqvpwqwnqr.enk.qpubqwephh,qyhztulqwvtykhz
pubqwk.pbthzqknvprbwqe.qpjrnwwqkopkqtujr.btih.qbtwkpuj.,qbrpvtulqu.pr.r
.c.rzqetufk.qizqwnqepuzqkonfwpubwqnyqeth.w,qjpe.qko.qKotulqko.zqv.r.
w.ubtulqfw,qko.qKotulqkopkqvpwqknqirtulqwnqefjoqwkrfllh.qpubqjphpetkz
pubqb.pkoqknqko.q.prkosqTqu.c.rqbr.pe.bqnyqtkqko.uqpwqTqvpkjo.b;qunqnu.
nuq.prkoqbr.pe.bqnyqkopkqfu.rrtulqetwwth.s

Kopkqutlok,qknn,qko.r.qvpwqpunko.rqg.kktulqnfkqnyqlpwqyrneqko.qbtwkpuk
ahpu.ksqTqwpvqtksqPqr.bbtwoqyhpwoqpkqko.q.bl.,qko.qwhtlok.wkqarng.jktnu
nyqko.qnfkhtu.qgfwkqpwqko.qjornune.k.rqwkrfj qetbutlok;qpubqpkqkopkqT
knhbqNlthczqpubqo.qknn qezqahpj.sqKo.qutlokqvpwqvpreqpubqTqvpwqkotrwkz,
pubqTqv.ukqwkr.kjotulqezqh.lwqjhfewthzqpubqy..htulqezqvpzqtuqko.
bpr u.ww,qknqko.qhtkkh.qkpih.qvo.r.qko.qwtaonuqwknnb,qvoth.qNlthcz
.mjhpte.bqpkqko.qwkr.pe.rqnyqlpwqkopkqjpe.qnfkqknvprbwqfws

Kopkqutlokqpunko.rqtuctwtih.qetwwth.qwkprk.bqnuqtkwqvpzqknqko.q.prko
yrneqEprw,qgfwkqpqw.jnubqnrqwnqfub.rqkv.ukz-ynfrqonfrwqpyk.rqko.qytrwk
nu.sqTqr.e.ei.rqonvqTqwpkqnuqko.qkpih.qko.r.qtuqko.qihpj u.ww,qvtko
apkjo.wqnyqlr..uqpubqjrtewnuqwvteetulqi.ynr.qezq.z.wsqTqvtwo.bqTqopbqp
htlokqknqwen .qiz,qhtkkh.qwfwa.jktulqko.qe.putulqnyqko.qetufk.qlh.peqT
opbqw..uqpubqphhqkopkqtkqvnfhbqar.w.ukhzqirtulqe.sqNlthczqvpkjo.bqkthh
nu.,qpubqko.uqlpc.qtkqfa;qpubqv.qhtkqko.qhpuk.ruqpubqvph .bqnc.rqknqotw
onfw.sqBnvuqi.hnvqtuqko.qbpr u.wwqv.r.qNkk.rwopvqpubqJo.rkw.zqpubqphh
ko.trqofubr.bwqnyqa.nah.,qwh..atulqtuqa.pj.s

O.qvpwqyfhhqnyqwa.jfhpktnuqkopkqutlokqpinfkqko.qjnubtktnuqnyqEprw,qpub
wjnyy.bqpkqko.qcfhlprqtb.pqnyqtkwqopctulqtuopitkpukwqvonqv.r.
wtluphhtulqfwsqOtwqtb.pqvpwqkopkqe.k.nrtk.wqetlokqi.qyphhtulqtuqpqo.pcz
wonv.rqfanuqko.qahpu.k,qnrqkopkqpqofl.qcnhjputjq.mahnwtnuqvpwqtu
arnlr.wwsqO.qantuk.bqnfkqknqe.qonvqfuht .hzqtkqvpwqkopkqnrlputj
.cnhfktnuqopbqkp .uqko.qwpe.qbtr.jktnuqtuqko.qkvnqpbgpj.ukqahpu.kws

“Ko.qjopuj.wqplptuwkqpuzkotulqepuht .qnuqEprwqpr.qpqethhtnuqknqnu.,”qo.
wptbs

Ofubr.bwqnyqniw.rc.rwqwpvqko.qyhpe.qkopkqutlokqpubqko.qutlokqpyk.r
pinfkqetbutlok,qpubqplptuqko.qutlokqpyk.r;qpubqwnqynrqk.uqutlokw,qp
yhpe.q.pjoqutloksqVozqko.qwonkwqj.pw.bqpyk.rqko.qk.ukoqunqnu.qnuq.prko
opwqpkk.eak.bqknq.mahptusqTkqepzqi.qko.qlpw.wqnyqko.qytrtulqjpfw.bqko.
Eprktpuwqtujnuc.ut.uj.sqB.uw.qjhnfbwqnyqwen .qnrqbfwk,qctwtih.qkornflo
pqanv.ryfhqk.h.wjna.qnuq.prkoqpwqhtkkh.qlr.z,qyhfjkfpktulqapkjo.w,
war.pbqkornfloqko.qjh.pru.wwqnyqko.qahpu.k’wqpkenwao.r.qpubqniwjfr.b
tkwqenr.qypethtprqy.pkfr.ws

.c.uqko.qbpthzqapa.rwqvn .qfaqknqko.qbtwkfripuj.wqpkqhpwk,qpubqanafhpr
unk.wqpaa.pr.bqo.r.,qko.r.,qpubq.c.rzvo.r.qjnuj.rutulqko.qcnhjpun.w
fanuqEprwsqKo.qw.rtnjnetjqa.rtnbtjphq_Afujo_,qTqr.e.ei.r,qepb.qpqopaaz
fw.qnyqtkqtuqko.qanhtktjphqjprknnusqPub,qphhqfuwfwa.jk.b,qkonw.
etwwth.wqko.qEprktpuwqopbqytr.bqpkqfwqbr.vq.prkovprb,qrfwotulqunvqpkqp
apj.qnyqepuzqeth.wqpqw.jnubqkornfloqko.q.eakzqlfhyqnyqwapj.,qonfrqiz
onfrqpubqbpzqizqbpz,qu.pr.rqpubqu.pr.rsqTkqw..ewqknqe.qunvqphenwk
tujr.btihzqvnub.ryfhqkopk,qvtkoqkopkqwvtykqypk.qopultulqnc.rqfw,qe.u
jnfhbqlnqpinfkqko.trqa.kkzqjnuj.ruwqpwqko.zqbtbsqTqr.e.ei.rqonv
gfithpukqEpr opeqvpwqpkqw.jfrtulqpqu.vqaonknlrpaoqnyqko.qahpu.kqynrqko.
thhfwkrpk.bqapa.rqo.q.btk.bqtuqkonw.qbpzwsqA.nah.qtuqko.w.qhpkk.rqkte.w
wjprj.hzqr.phtw.qko.qpifubpuj.qpubq.uk.rartw.qnyqnfrqutu.k..uko-j.ukfrz
apa.rwsqYnrqezqnvuqaprk,qTqvpwqefjoqnjjfat.bqtuqh.prutulqknqrtb.qko.
itjzjh.,qpubqifwzqfanuqpqw.rt.wqnyqapa.rwqbtwjfwwtulqko.qarnipih.
b.c.hnae.ukwqnyqenrphqtb.pwqpwqjtcthtwpktnuqarnlr.ww.bs

Nu.qutlokq(ko.qytrwkqetwwth.qko.uqjnfhbqwjprj.hzqopc.qi..uq10,000,000
eth.wqpvpz)qTqv.ukqynrqpqvph qvtkoqezqvty.sqTkqvpwqwkprhtlokqpubqT
.mahptu.bqko.qWtluwqnyqko.qDnbtpjqknqo.r,qpubqantuk.bqnfkqEprw,qp
irtlokqbnkqnyqhtlokqjr..atulqd.utkovprb,qknvprbwqvotjoqwnqepuz
k.h.wjna.wqv.r.qantuk.bsqTkqvpwqpqvprequtloksqJnetulqone.,qpqaprkzqny
.mjfrwtnutwkwqyrneqJo.rkw.zqnrqTwh.vnrkoqapww.bqfwqwtultulqpubqahpztul
efwtjsqKo.r.qv.r.qhtlokwqtuqko.qfaa.rqvtubnvwqnyqko.qonfw.wqpwqko.
a.nah.qv.ukqknqi.bsqYrneqko.qrpthvpzqwkpktnuqtuqko.qbtwkpuj.qjpe.qko.
wnfubqnyqwofuktulqkrptuw,qrtultulqpubqrfeihtul,qwnyk.u.bqphenwkqtukn
e.hnbzqizqko.qbtwkpuj.sqEzqvty.qantuk.bqnfkqknqe.qko.qirtloku.wwqnyqko.
r.b,qlr..u,qpubqz.hhnvqwtluphqhtlokwqopultulqtuqpqyrpe.vnr qplptuwkqko.
w zsqTkqw..e.bqwnqwpy.qpubqkrpuxfths


TTs

KO.qYPHHTULqWKPRs

Ko.uqjpe.qko.qutlokqnyqko.qytrwkqyphhtulqwkprsqTkqvpwqw..uq.prhzqtuqko.
enrutul,qrfwotulqnc.rqVtujo.wk.rq.pwkvprb,qpqhtu.qnyqyhpe.qotloqtuqko.
pkenwao.r.sqOfubr.bwqefwkqopc.qw..uqtk,qpubqkp .uqtkqynrqpuqnrbtuprz
yphhtulqwkprsqPhituqb.wjrti.bqtkqpwqh.pctulqpqlr..utwoqwkr.p qi.otubqtk
kopkqlhnv.bqynrqwne.qw.jnubwsqB.uutul,qnfrqlr.pk.wkqpfkonrtkzqnu
e.k.nrtk.w,qwkpk.bqkopkqko.qo.tlokqnyqtkwqytrwkqpaa.prpuj.qvpwqpinfk
utu.kzqnrqnu.qofubr.bqeth.wsqTkqw..e.bqknqoteqkopkqtkqy.hhqknq.prko
pinfkqnu.qofubr.bqeth.wq.pwkqnyqotes

Tqvpwqpkqone.qpkqkopkqonfrqpubqvrtktulqtuqezqwkfbz;qpubqphkonfloqez
Yr.ujoqvtubnvwqypj.qknvprbwqNkk.rwopvqpubqko.qihtubqvpwqfaq(ynrqTqhnc.b
tuqkonw.qbpzwqknqhnn qfaqpkqko.qutlokqw z),qTqwpvqunkotulqnyqtksqZ.k
kotwqwkrpul.wkqnyqphhqkotulwqkopkq.c.rqjpe.qknq.prkoqyrneqnfk.rqwapj.
efwkqopc.qyphh.uqvoth.qTqvpwqwtkktulqko.r.,qctwtih.qknqe.qopbqTqnuhz
hnn .bqfaqpwqtkqapww.bsqWne.qnyqkonw.qvonqwpvqtkwqyhtlokqwpzqtk
krpc.hh.bqvtkoqpqotwwtulqwnfubsqTqezw.hyqo.prbqunkotulqnyqkopksqEpuz
a.nah.qtuqI.r wotr.,qWfrr.z,qpubqEtbbh.w.mqefwkqopc.qw..uqko.qyphhqny
tk,qpub,qpkqenwk,qopc.qkonflokqkopkqpunko.rqe.k.nrtk.qopbqb.wj.ub.bsqUn
nu.qw..ewqknqopc.qkrnfih.bqknqhnn qynrqko.qyphh.uqepwwqkopkqutloks

Ifkqc.rzq.prhzqtuqko.qenrutulqannrqNlthcz,qvonqopbqw..uqko.qwonnktul
wkprqpubqvonqvpwqa.rwfpb.bqkopkqpqe.k.nrtk.qhpzqwne.vo.r.qnuqko.qjneenu
i.kv..uqOnrw.hh,qNkk.rwopv,qpubqVn tul,qrnw.q.prhzqvtkoqko.qtb.pqny
ytubtulqtksqYtubqtkqo.qbtb,qwnnuqpyk.rqbpvu,qpubqunkqyprqyrneqko.
wpub-atkwsqPuq.unrenfwqonh.qopbqi..uqepb.qizqko.qteapjkqnyqko.
arng.jkth.,qpubqko.qwpubqpubqlrpc.hqopbqi..uqyhfulqctnh.ukhzqtuq.c.rz
btr.jktnuqnc.rqko.qo.pko,qynretulqo.pawqctwtih.qpqeth.qpubqpqophyqpvpzs
Ko.qo.pko.rqvpwqnuqytr.q.pwkvprb,qpubqpqkotuqihf.qwen .qrnw.qplptuwk
ko.qbpvus

Ko.qKotulqtkw.hyqhpzqphenwkq.uktr.hzqifrt.bqtuqwpub,qpetbwkqko.
wjpkk.r.bqwahtuk.rwqnyqpqytrqkr..qtkqopbqwotc.r.bqknqyrple.ukwqtuqtkw
b.wj.uksqKo.qfujnc.r.bqaprkqopbqko.qpaa.prpuj.qnyqpqofl.qjzhtub.r,
jp .bqnc.rqpubqtkwqnfkhtu.qwnyk.u.bqizqpqkotj qwjphzqbfu-jnhnfr.b
tujrfwkpktnusqTkqopbqpqbtpe.k.rqnyqpinfkqkotrkzqzprbwsqO.qpaarnpjo.b
ko.qepww,qwfrartw.bqpkqko.qwtd.qpubqenr.qwnqpkqko.qwopa.,qwtuj.qenwk
e.k.nrtk.wqpr.qrnfub.bqenr.qnrqh.wwqjneah.k.hzsqTkqvpw,qonv.c.r,qwkthh
wnqonkqyrneqtkwqyhtlokqkornfloqko.qptrqpwqknqynritbqotwqu.prqpaarnpjos
Pqwktrrtulquntw.qvtkotuqtkwqjzhtub.rqo.qpwjrti.bqknqko.qfu.xfphqjnnhtul
nyqtkwqwfrypj.;qynrqpkqkopkqkte.qtkqopbqunkqnjjfrr.bqknqoteqkopkqtk
etlokqi.qonhhnvs

O.qr.eptu.bqwkpubtulqpkqko.q.bl.qnyqko.qatkqkopkqko.qKotulqopbqepb.qynr
tkw.hy,qwkprtulqpkqtkwqwkrpul.qpaa.prpuj.,qpwknutwo.bqjot.yhzqpkqtkw
fufwfphqwopa.qpubqjnhnfr,qpubqbtehzqa.rj.tctulq.c.uqko.uqwne.q.ctb.uj.
nyqb.wtluqtuqtkwqprrtcphsqKo.q.prhzqenrutulqvpwqvnub.ryfhhzqwkthh,qpub
ko.qwfu,qgfwkqjh.prtulqko.qatu.qkr..wqknvprbwqV.zirtbl.,qvpwqphr.pbz
vpresqO.qbtbqunkqr.e.ei.rqo.prtulqpuzqitrbwqkopkqenrutul,qko.r.qvpw
j.rkptuhzqunqir..d.qwktrrtul,qpubqko.qnuhzqwnfubwqv.r.qko.qyptuk
enc.e.ukwqyrneqvtkotuqko.qjtub.rzqjzhtub.rsqO.qvpwqphhqphnu.qnuqko.
jneenus

Ko.uqwfbb.uhzqo.qunktj.bqvtkoqpqwkprkqkopkqwne.qnyqko.qlr.zqjhtu .r,
ko.qpwozqtujrfwkpktnuqkopkqjnc.r.bqko.qe.k.nrtk.,qvpwqyphhtulqnyyqko.
jtrjfhprq.bl.qnyqko.q.ubsqTkqvpwqbrnaatulqnyyqtuqyhp .wqpubqrptutul
bnvuqfanuqko.qwpubsqPqhprl.qat.j.qwfbb.uhzqjpe.qnyyqpubqy.hhqvtkoqp
wopraquntw.qkopkqirnflokqotwqo.prkqtuknqotwqenfkos

Ynrqpqetufk.qo.qwjprj.hzqr.phtw.bqvopkqkotwqe.puk,qpub,qphkonfloqko.
o.pkqvpwq.mj.wwtc.,qo.qjhpei.r.bqbnvuqtuknqko.qatkqjhnw.qknqko.qifh qkn
w..qko.qKotulqenr.qjh.prhzsqO.qypujt.bq.c.uqko.uqkopkqko.qjnnhtulqny
ko.qinbzqetlokqpjjnfukqynrqkotw,qifkqvopkqbtwkfri.bqkopkqtb.pqvpwqko.
ypjkqkopkqko.qpwoqvpwqyphhtulqnuhzqyrneqko.q.ubqnyqko.qjzhtub.rs

Pubqko.uqo.qa.rj.tc.bqkopk,qc.rzqwhnvhz,qko.qjtrjfhprqknaqnyqko.
jzhtub.rqvpwqrnkpktulqnuqtkwqinbzsqTkqvpwqwfjoqpqlrpbfphqenc.e.ukqkopk
o.qbtwjnc.r.bqtkqnuhzqkornfloqunktjtulqkopkqpqihpj qepr qkopkqopbqi..u
u.prqoteqytc.qetufk.wqplnqvpwqunvqpkqko.qnko.rqwtb.qnyqko.
jtrjfey.r.uj.sq.c.uqko.uqo.qwjprj.hzqfub.rwknnbqvopkqkotwqtubtjpk.b,
fukthqo.qo.prbqpqefyyh.bqlrpktulqwnfubqpubqwpvqko.qihpj qepr qg.r 
ynrvprbqpuqtujoqnrqwnsqKo.uqko.qkotulqjpe.qfanuqoteqtuqpqyhpwosqKo.
jzhtub.rqvpwqprktytjtph—onhhnv—vtkoqpuq.ubqkopkqwjr.v.bqnfk!qWne.kotul
vtkotuqko.qjzhtub.rqvpwqfuwjr.vtulqko.qkna!

“Lnnbqo.pc.uw!”qwptbqNlthczsq“Ko.r.’wqpqepuqtuqtk—e.uqtuqtk!qOphy
rnpwk.bqknqb.pko!qKrztulqknq.wjpa.!”

Pkqnuj.,qvtkoqpqxftj qe.ukphqh.pa,qo.qhtu .bqko.qKotulqvtkoqko.qyhpwo
fanuqEprws

Ko.qkonflokqnyqko.qjnuytu.bqjr.pkfr.qvpwqwnqbr.pbyfhqknqoteqkopkqo.
ynrlnkqko.qo.pkqpubqv.ukqynrvprbqknqko.qjzhtub.rqknqo.haqkfrusqIfk
hfj thzqko.qbfhhqrpbtpktnuqprr.wk.bqoteqi.ynr.qo.qjnfhbqifruqotwqopubw
nuqko.qwkthh-lhnvtulqe.kphsqPkqkopkqo.qwknnbqtrr.wnhfk.qynrqpqene.uk,
ko.uqkfru.b,qwjrpeih.bqnfkqnyqko.qatk,qpubqw.kqnyyqrfuutulqvthbhzqtukn
Vn tulsqKo.qkte.qko.uqefwkqopc.qi..uqwne.vo.r.qpinfkqwtmqn’jhnj sqO.
e.kqpqvpllnu.rqpubqkrt.bqknqep .qoteqfub.rwkpub,qifkqko.qkph.qo.qknhb
pubqotwqpaa.prpuj.qv.r.qwnqvthb—otwqopkqopbqyphh.uqnyyqtuqko.qatk—kopk
ko.qepuqwteahzqbrnc.qnusqO.qvpwq.xfphhzqfuwfjj.wwyfhqvtkoqko.qankepu
vonqvpwqgfwkqfuhnj tulqko.qbnnrwqnyqko.qafihtj-onfw.qizqOnrw.hhqIrtbl.s
Ko.qy.hhnvqkonflokqo.qvpwqpqhfupktjqpkqhprl.qpubqepb.qpuqfuwfjj.wwyfh
pkk.eakqknqwofkqoteqtuknqko.qkparnnesqKopkqwni.r.bqoteqpqhtkkh.;qpub
vo.uqo.qwpvqO.ub.rwnu,qko.qHnubnuqgnfruphtwk,qtuqotwqlprb.u,qo.qjphh.b
nc.rqko.qaphtulwqpubqepb.qotew.hyqfub.rwknnbs

“O.ub.rwnu,”qo.qjphh.b,q“znfqwpvqkopkqwonnktulqwkprqhpwkqutlok?”

“V.hh?”qwptbqO.ub.rwnus

“Tk’wqnfkqnuqOnrw.hhqJneenuqunvs”

“LnnbqHnrb!”qwptbqO.ub.rwnusq“Yphh.uqe.k.nrtk.!qKopk’wqlnnbs”

“Ifkqtk’wqwne.kotulqenr.qkopuqpqe.k.nrtk.sqTk’wqpqjzhtub.r—pu
prktytjtphqjzhtub.r,qepu!qPubqko.r.’wqwne.kotulqtuwtb.s”

O.ub.rwnuqwknnbqfaqvtkoqotwqwapb.qtuqotwqopubs

“Vopk’wqkopk?”qo.qwptbsqO.qvpwqb.pyqtuqnu.q.prs

Nlthczqknhbqoteqphhqkopkqo.qopbqw..usqO.ub.rwnuqvpwqpqetufk.qnrqwn
kp tulqtkqtusqKo.uqo.qbrnaa.bqotwqwapb.,qwupkjo.bqfaqotwqgpj .k,qpub
jpe.qnfkqtuknqko.qrnpbsqKo.qkvnqe.uqofrrt.bqipj qpkqnuj.qknqko.qjneenu,
pubqynfubqko.qjzhtub.rqwkthhqhztulqtuqko.qwpe.qanwtktnusqIfkqunvqko.
wnfubwqtuwtb.qopbqj.pw.b,qpubqpqkotuqjtrjh.qnyqirtlokqe.kphqwonv.b
i.kv..uqko.qknaqpubqko.qinbzqnyqko.qjzhtub.rsqPtrqvpwq.tko.rq.uk.rtul
nrq.wjpatulqpkqko.qrteqvtkoqpqkotu,qwtddhtulqwnfubs

Ko.zqhtwk.u.b,qrpaa.bqnuqko.qwjphzqifrukqe.kphqvtkoqpqwktj ,qpub,
e..ktulqvtkoqunqr.wanuw.,qko.zqinkoqjnujhfb.bqko.qepuqnrqe.uqtuwtb.
efwkqi.qtuw.uwtih.qnrqb.pbs

Nyqjnfrw.qko.qkvnqv.r.qxftk.qfupih.qknqbnqpuzkotulsqKo.zqwonfk.b
jnuwnhpktnuqpubqarnetw.w,qpubqv.ukqnyyqipj qknqko.qknvuqplptuqknql.k
o.hasqNu.qjpuqtepltu.qko.e,qjnc.r.bqvtkoqwpub,q.mjtk.bqpubqbtwnrb.r.b,
rfuutulqfaqko.qhtkkh.qwkr..kqtuqko.qirtlokqwfuhtlokqgfwkqpwqko.qwona
ynh wqv.r.qkp tulqbnvuqko.trqwofkk.rwqpubqa.nah.qv.r.qna.utulqko.tr
i.brnneqvtubnvwsqO.ub.rwnuqv.ukqtuknqko.qrpthvpzqwkpktnuqpkqnuj.,qtu
nrb.rqknqk.h.lrpaoqko.qu.vwqknqHnubnusqKo.qu.vwapa.rqprktjh.wqopb
ar.apr.bqe.u’wqetubwqynrqko.qr.j.aktnuqnyqko.qtb.ps

Izq.tlokqn’jhnj qpqufei.rqnyqinzwqpubqfu.eahnz.bqe.uqopbqphr.pbz
wkprk.bqynrqko.qjneenuqknqw..qko.q“b.pbqe.uqyrneqEprws”qKopkqvpwqko.
ynreqko.qwknrzqknn sqTqo.prbqnyqtkqytrwkqyrneqezqu.vwapa.rqinzqpinfkqp
xfprk.rqknqutu.qvo.uqTqv.ukqnfkqknql.kqezq_BpthzqJornutjh._sqTqvpw
upkfrphhzqwkprkh.b,qpubqhnwkqunqkte.qtuqlntulqnfkqpubqpjrnwwqko.
Nkk.rwopvqirtbl.qknqko.qwpub-atkws


TTTs

NUqONRW.HHqJNEENUs

Tqynfubqpqhtkkh.qjrnvbqnyqa.ropawqkv.ukzqa.nah.qwfrrnfubtulqko.qofl.
onh.qtuqvotjoqko.qjzhtub.rqhpzsqTqopc.qphr.pbzqb.wjrti.bqko.qpaa.prpuj.
nyqkopkqjnhnwwphqifh ,q.ei.bb.bqtuqko.qlrnfubsqKo.qkfryqpubqlrpc.h
pinfkqtkqw..e.bqjoprr.bqpwqtyqizqpqwfbb.uq.mahnwtnusqUnqbnfikqtkw
teapjkqopbqjpfw.bqpqyhpwoqnyqytr.sqO.ub.rwnuqpubqNlthczqv.r.qunkqko.r.s
Tqkotu qko.zqa.rj.tc.bqkopkqunkotulqvpwqknqi.qbnu.qynrqko.qar.w.uk,qpub
opbqlnu.qpvpzqknqir.p ypwkqpkqO.ub.rwnu’wqonfw.s

Ko.r.qv.r.qynfrqnrqytc.qinzwqwtkktulqnuqko.q.bl.qnyqko.qAtk,qvtkoqko.tr
y..kqbpulhtul,qpubqpefwtulqko.ew.hc.w—fukthqTqwknaa.bqko.e—izqkornvtul
wknu.wqpkqko.qltpukqepwwsqPyk.rqTqopbqwan .uqknqko.eqpinfkqtk,qko.z
i.lpuqahpztulqpkq“knfjo”qtuqpubqnfkqnyqko.qlrnfaqnyqizwkpub.rws

Penulqko.w.qv.r.qpqjnfah.qnyqjzjhtwkw,qpqgniitulqlprb.u.rqTq.eahnz.b
wne.kte.w,qpqltrhqjprrztulqpqipiz,qLr.llqko.qifkjo.rqpubqotwqhtkkh.
inz,qpubqkvnqnrqkor..qhnpy.rwqpubqlnhyqjpbbt.wqvonqv.r.qpjjfwkne.bqkn
opulqpinfkqko.qrpthvpzqwkpktnusqKo.r.qvpwqc.rzqhtkkh.qkph tulsqY.vqny
ko.qjneenuqa.nah.qtuq.ulhpubqopbqpuzkotulqifkqko.qcplf.wkqpwkrnunetjph
tb.pwqtuqkonw.qbpzwsqEnwkqnyqko.eqv.r.qwkprtulqxft.khzqpkqko.qitlqkpih.
ht .q.ubqnyqko.qjzhtub.r,qvotjoqvpwqwkthhqpwqNlthczqpubqO.ub.rwnuqopb
h.ykqtksqTqypujzqko.qanafhprq.ma.jkpktnuqnyqpqo.paqnyqjoprr.bqjnraw.w
vpwqbtwpaantuk.bqpkqkotwqtuputepk.qifh sqWne.qv.ukqpvpzqvoth.qTqvpw
ko.r.,qpubqnko.rqa.nah.qjpe.sqTqjhpei.r.bqtuknqko.qatkqpubqypujt.bqT
o.prbqpqyptukqenc.e.ukqfub.rqezqy..ksqKo.qknaqopbqj.rkptuhzqj.pw.bqkn
rnkpk.s

Tkqvpwqnuhzqvo.uqTqlnkqkofwqjhnw.qknqtkqkopkqko.qwkrpul.u.wwqnyqkotw
nig.jkqvpwqpkqphhq.ctb.ukqknqe.sqPkqko.qytrwkqlhpuj.qtkqvpwqr.phhzqun
enr.q.mjtktulqkopuqpuqnc.rkfru.bqjprrtpl.qnrqpqkr..qihnvuqpjrnwwqko.
rnpbsqUnkqwnqefjoqwn,qtub..bsqTkqhnn .bqht .qpqrfwkzqlpwqyhnpksqTk
r.xftr.bqpqj.rkptuqpenfukqnyqwjt.uktytjq.bfjpktnuqknqa.rj.tc.qkopkqko.
lr.zqwjph.qnyqko.qKotulqvpwqunqjneenuqnmtb.,qkopkqko.qz.hhnvtwo-votk.
e.kphqkopkqlh.pe.bqtuqko.qjrpj qi.kv..uqko.qhtbqpubqko.qjzhtub.rqopbqpu
fuypethtprqof.sq“.mkrp-k.rr.wkrtph”qopbqunqe.putulqynrqenwkqnyqko.
nuhnn .rws

Pkqkopkqkte.qtkqvpwqxftk.qjh.prqtuqezqnvuqetubqkopkqko.qKotulqopbqjne.
yrneqko.qahpu.kqEprw,qifkqTqgfbl.bqtkqtearnipih.qkopkqtkqjnukptu.bqpuz
htctulqjr.pkfr.sqTqkonflokqko.qfuwjr.vtulqetlokqi.qpfknepktjsqTuqwatk.
nyqNlthcz,qTqwkthhqi.ht.c.bqkopkqko.r.qv.r.qe.uqtuqEprwsqEzqetubqrpu
ypujtyfhhzqnuqko.qanwwtithtkt.wqnyqtkwqjnukptutulqepufwjrtak,qnuqko.
btyytjfhkt.wqtuqkrpuwhpktnuqkopkqetlokqprtw.,qvo.ko.rqv.qwonfhbqytub
jntuwqpubqenb.hwqtuqtk,qpubqwnqynrkosqZ.kqtkqvpwqpqhtkkh.qknnqhprl.qynr
pwwfrpuj.qnuqkotwqtb.psqTqy.hkqpuqteapkt.uj.qknqw..qtkqna.u.bsqPinfk
.h.c.u,qpwqunkotulqw..e.bqopaa.utul,qTqvph .bqipj ,qyfhhqnyqwfjo
konflok,qknqezqone.qtuqEpzifrzsqIfkqTqynfubqtkqbtyytjfhkqknql.kqknqvnr 
fanuqezqpiwkrpjkqtuc.wktlpktnuws

Tuqko.qpyk.runnuqko.qpaa.prpuj.qnyqko.qjneenuqopbqphk.r.bqc.rzqefjos
Ko.q.prhzq.btktnuwqnyqko.q.c.utulqapa.rwqopbqwkprkh.bqHnubnuqvtko
.unrenfwqo.pbhtu.w:

“PqE.WWPL.qR.J.TC.BqYRNEqEPRWs”


“R.EPR PIH.qWKNRZqYRNEqVN TUL,”


pubqwnqynrkosqTuqpbbtktnu,qNlthcz’wqvtr.qknqko.qPwkrnunetjphq.mjopul.
opbqrnfw.bq.c.rzqniw.rcpknrzqtuqko.qkor..q tulbnews

Ko.r.qv.r.qophyqpqbnd.uqyhzwqnrqenr.qyrneqko.qVn tulqwkpktnuqwkpubtul
tuqko.qrnpbqizqko.qwpub-atkw,qpqipw .k-joptw.qyrneqJoniope,qpubqp
rpko.rqhnrbhzqjprrtpl.sqI.wtb.wqkopk,qko.r.qvpwqxftk.qpqo.paqny
itjzjh.wsqTuqpbbtktnu,qpqhprl.qufei.rqnyqa.nah.qefwkqopc.qvph .b,qtu
watk.qnyqko.qo.pkqnyqko.qbpz,qyrneqVn tulqpubqJo.rkw.z,qwnqkopkqko.r.
vpwqphknl.ko.rqxftk.qpqjnuwtb.rpih.qjrnvb—nu.qnrqkvnqlpthzqbr.ww.b
hpbt.wqpenulqko.qnko.rws

Tkqvpwqlhprtulhzqonk,qunkqpqjhnfbqtuqko.qw zqunrqpqir.pkoqnyqvtub,qpub
ko.qnuhzqwopbnvqvpwqkopkqnyqko.qy.vqwjpkk.r.bqatu.qkr..wsqKo.qifrutul
o.pko.rqopbqi..uq.mktulftwo.b,qifkqko.qh.c.hqlrnfubqknvprbwqNkk.rwopv
vpwqihpj .u.bqpwqyprqpwqnu.qjnfhbqw..,qpubqwkthhqltctulqnyyqc.rktjph
wkr.pe.rwqnyqwen .sqPuq.uk.rartwtulqwv..k-wkfyyqb.ph.rqtuqko.qJoniope
Rnpbqopbqw.ukqfaqotwqwnuqvtkoqpqiprrnv-hnpbqnyqlr..uqpaah.wqpubqltul.r
i..rs

Lntulqknqko.q.bl.qnyqko.qatk,qTqynfubqtkqnjjfat.bqizqpqlrnfaqnyqpinfk
ophyqpqbnd.uqe.u—O.ub.rwnu,qNlthcz,qpubqpqkphh,qyptr-optr.bqepuqkopkqT
pyk.rvprbwqh.pru.bqvpwqWk.uk,qko.qPwkrnune.rqRnzph,qvtkoqw.c.rph
vnr e.uqvt.hbtulqwapb.wqpubqatj pm.wsqWk.ukqvpwqltctulqbtr.jktnuwqtuqp
jh.pr,qotlo-atkjo.bqcntj.sqO.qvpwqwkpubtulqnuqko.qjzhtub.r,qvotjoqvpw
unvq.ctb.ukhzqefjoqjnnh.r;qotwqypj.qvpwqjrtewnuqpubqwkr.petulqvtko
a.rwatrpktnu,qpubqwne.kotulqw..e.bqknqopc.qtrrtkpk.bqotes

Pqhprl.qanrktnuqnyqko.qjzhtub.rqopbqi..uqfujnc.r.b,qkonfloqtkwqhnv.r
.ubqvpwqwkthhq.ei.bb.bsqPwqwnnuqpwqNlthczqwpvqe.qpenulqko.qwkprtul
jrnvbqnuqko.q.bl.qnyqko.qatkqo.qjphh.bqknqe.qknqjne.qbnvu,qpubqpw .bqe.
tyqTqvnfhbqetubqlntulqnc.rqknqw..qHnrbqOthknu,qko.qhnrbqnyqko.qepunrs

Ko.qlrnvtulqjrnvb,qo.qwptb,qvpwqi.jnetulqpqw.rtnfwqtea.bte.ukqknqko.tr
.mjpcpktnuw,q.wa.jtphhzqko.qinzwsqKo.zqvpuk.bqpqhtlokqrpthtulqafkqfa,
pubqo.haqknq ..aqko.qa.nah.qipj sqO.qknhbqe.qkopkqpqyptukqwktrrtulqvpw
njjpwtnuphhzqwkthhqpfbtih.qvtkotuqko.qjpw.,qifkqkopkqko.qvnr e.uqopb
ypth.bqknqfuwjr.vqko.qkna,qpwqtkqpyynrb.bqunqlrtaqknqko.esqKo.qjpw.
paa.pr.bqknqi.q.unrenfwhzqkotj ,qpubqtkqvpwqanwwtih.qkopkqko.qyptuk
wnfubwqv.qo.prbqr.ar.w.uk.bqpquntwzqkfefhkqtuqko.qtuk.rtnrs

Tqvpwqc.rzqlhpbqknqbnqpwqo.qpw .b,qpubqwnqi.jne.qnu.qnyqko.qartcth.l.b
wa.jkpknrwqvtkotuqko.qjnuk.eahpk.bq.ujhnwfr.sqTqypth.bqknqytubqHnrb
Othknuqpkqotwqonfw.,qifkqTqvpwqknhbqo.qvpwq.ma.jk.bqyrneqHnubnuqizqko.
wtmqn’jhnj qkrptuqyrneqVpk.rhnn;qpubqpwqtkqvpwqko.uqpinfkqpqxfprk.r
apwkqytc.,qTqv.ukqone.,qopbqwne.qk.p,qpubqvph .bqfaqknqko.qwkpktnuqkn
vpzhpzqotes


TCs

KO.qJZHTUB.RqNA.UWs

Vo.uqTqr.kfru.bqknqko.qjneenuqko.qwfuqvpwqw.kktulsqWjpkk.r.bqlrnfaw
v.r.qofrrztulqyrneqko.qbtr.jktnuqnyqVn tul,qpubqnu.qnrqkvnqa.rwnuwqv.r.
r.kfrutulsqKo.qjrnvbqpinfkqko.qatkqopbqtujr.pw.b,qpubqwknnbqnfkqihpj 
plptuwkqko.qh.enuqz.hhnvqnyqko.qw z—pqjnfah.qnyqofubr.bqa.nah.,
a.ropawsqKo.r.qv.r.qrptw.bqcntj.w,qpubqwne.qwnrkqnyqwkrfllh.qpaa.pr.b
knqi.qlntulqnuqpinfkqko.qatksqWkrpul.qtepltutulwqapww.bqkornfloqez
etubsqPwqTqbr.vqu.pr.rqTqo.prbqWk.uk’wqcntj.:

“ ..aqipj !q ..aqipj !”

Pqinzqjpe.qrfuutulqknvprbwqe.s

“Tk’wqp-enctu’,”qo.qwptbqknqe.qpwqo.qapww.b;q“p-wjr.vtu’qpubqp-wjr.vtu’
nfksqTqbnu’kqht .qtksqT’eqp-lntu’q’ne.,qTqpes”

Tqv.ukqnuqknqko.qjrnvbsqKo.r.qv.r.qr.phhz,qTqwonfhbqkotu ,qkvnqnrqkor..
ofubr.bqa.nah.q.hinvtulqpubqgnwkhtulqnu.qpunko.r,qko.qnu.qnrqkvnqhpbt.w
ko.r.qi.tulqizqunqe.puwqko.qh.pwkqpjktc.s

“O.’wqyphh.uqtuqko.qatk!”qjrt.bqwne.qnu.s

“ ..aqipj !”qwptbqw.c.rphs

Ko.qjrnvbqwvpz.bqpqhtkkh.,qpubqTq.hinv.bqezqvpzqkornflosq.c.rzqnu.
w..e.bqlr.pkhzq.mjtk.bsqTqo.prbqpqa.jfhtprqofeetulqwnfubqyrneqko.qatks

“Tqwpz!”qwptbqNlthcz;q“o.haq ..aqko.w.qtbtnkwqipj sqV.qbnu’kq unv
vopk’wqtuqko.qjnuynfub.bqkotul,qznfq unv!”

Tqwpvqpqznfulqepu,qpqwonaqpwwtwkpukqtuqVn tulqTqi.ht.c.qo.qvpw,
wkpubtulqnuqko.qjzhtub.rqpubqkrztulqknqwjrpeih.qnfkqnyqko.qonh.qplptus
Ko.qjrnvbqopbqafwo.bqoteqtus

Ko.q.ubqnyqko.qjzhtub.rqvpwqi.tulqwjr.v.bqnfkqyrneqvtkotusqU.prhzqkvn
y..kqnyqwotutulqwjr.vqarng.jk.bsqWne.inbzqihfub.r.bqplptuwkqe.,qpubqT
uprrnvhzqetww.bqi.tulqatkjo.bqnuknqko.qknaqnyqko.qwjr.vsqTqkfru.b,qpub
pwqTqbtbqwnqko.qwjr.vqefwkqopc.qjne.qnfk,qynrqko.qhtbqnyqko.qjzhtub.r
y.hhqfanuqko.qlrpc.hqvtkoqpqrtultulqjnujfwwtnusqTqwkfj qezq.hinvqtukn
ko.qa.rwnuqi.otubqe.,qpubqkfru.bqezqo.pbqknvprbwqko.qKotulqplptusqYnrqp
ene.ukqkopkqjtrjfhprqjpctkzqw..e.bqa.ry.jkhzqihpj sqTqopbqko.qwfuw.kqtu
ezq.z.ws

Tqkotu q.c.rznu.q.ma.jk.bqknqw..qpqepuq.e.rl.—anwwtihzqwne.kotulqp
htkkh.qfuht .qfwqk.rr.wkrtphqe.u,qifkqtuqphhq.ww.uktphwqpqepusqTq unvqT
btbsqIfk,qhnn tul,qTqar.w.ukhzqwpvqwne.kotulqwktrrtulqvtkotuqko.
wopbnv:qlr.ztwoqithhnvzqenc.e.ukw,qnu.qpinc.qpunko.r,qpubqko.uqkvn
hfetunfwqbtw w—ht .q.z.wsqKo.uqwne.kotulqr.w.eihtulqpqhtkkh.qlr.z
wup .,qpinfkqko.qkotj u.wwqnyqpqvph tulqwktj ,qjnth.bqfaqnfkqnyqko.
vrtkotulqetbbh.,qpubqvrtllh.bqtuqko.qptrqknvprbwqe.—pubqko.uqpunko.rs

Pqwfbb.uqjothhqjpe.qnc.rqe.sqKo.r.qvpwqpqhnfbqwort. qyrneqpqvnepu
i.otubsqTqophyqkfru.b,q ..atulqezq.z.wqytm.bqfanuqko.qjzhtub.rqwkthh,
yrneqvotjoqnko.rqk.ukpjh.wqv.r.qunvqarng.jktul,qpubqi.lpuqafwotulqez
vpzqipj qyrneqko.q.bl.qnyqko.qatksqTqwpvqpwknutwoe.ukqltctulqahpj.qkn
onrrnrqnuqko.qypj.wqnyqko.qa.nah.qpinfkqe.sqTqo.prbqtuprktjfhpk.
.mjhpepktnuwqnuqphhqwtb.wsqKo.r.qvpwqpql.u.rphqenc.e.ukqipj vprbwsqT
wpvqko.qwonaepuqwkrfllhtulqwkthhqnuqko.q.bl.qnyqko.qatksqTqynfubqezw.hy
phnu.,qpubqwpvqko.qa.nah.qnuqko.qnko.rqwtb.qnyqko.qatkqrfuutulqnyy,
Wk.ukqpenulqko.esqTqhnn .bqplptuqpkqko.qjzhtub.r,qpubqfulnc.rupih.
k.rrnrqlrtaa.bqe.sqTqwknnbqa.krtyt.bqpubqwkprtuls

Pqitlqlr.ztwoqrnfub.bqifh ,qko.qwtd.,qa.ropaw,qnyqpqi.pr,qvpwqrtwtul
whnvhzqpubqaptuyfhhzqnfkqnyqko.qjzhtub.rsqPwqtkqifhl.bqfaqpubqjpflok
ko.qhtlok,qtkqlhtwk.u.bqht .qv.kqh.pko.rs

Kvnqhprl.qbpr -jnhnfr.bq.z.wqv.r.qr.lprbtulqe.qwk.pbypwkhzsqKo.qepww
kopkqyrpe.bqko.e,qko.qo.pbqnyqko.qkotul,qvpwqrnfub.b,qpubqopb,qnu.
etlokqwpz,qpqypj.sqKo.r.qvpwqpqenfkoqfub.rqko.q.z.w,qko.qhtah.wwqirte
nyqvotjoqxftc.r.bqpubqapuk.b,qpubqbrnaa.bqwphtcpsqKo.qvonh.qjr.pkfr.
o.pc.bqpubqafhwpk.bqjnucfhwtc.hzsqPqhpu qk.ukpjfhprqpaa.ubpl.qlrtaa.b
ko.q.bl.qnyqko.qjzhtub.r,qpunko.rqwvpz.bqtuqko.qptrs

Konw.qvonqopc.qu.c.rqw..uqpqhtctulqEprktpuqjpuqwjprj.hzqtepltu.qko.
wkrpul.qonrrnrqnyqtkwqpaa.prpuj.sqKo.qa.jfhtprqC-wopa.bqenfkoqvtkoqtkw
antuk.bqfaa.rqhta,qko.qpiw.uj.qnyqirnvqrtbl.w,qko.qpiw.uj.qnyqpqjotu
i.u.pkoqko.qv.bl.ht .qhnv.rqhta,qko.qtuj.wwpukqxftc.rtulqnyqkotwqenfko,
ko.qLnrlnuqlrnfawqnyqk.ukpjh.w,qko.qkfefhkfnfwqir.pkotulqnyqko.qhfulw
tuqpqwkrpul.qpkenwao.r.,qko.q.ctb.ukqo.pctu.wwqpubqaptuyfhu.wwqny
enc.e.ukqbf.qknqko.qlr.pk.rqlrpctkpktnuphq.u.rlzqnyqko.q.prko—pinc.
phh,qko.q.mkrpnrbtuprzqtuk.uwtkzqnyqko.qtee.uw.q.z.w—v.r.qpkqnuj.
ctkph,qtuk.uw.,qtuofepu,qjrtaah.bqpubqenuwkrnfwsqKo.r.qvpwqwne.kotul
yfulntbqtuqko.qnthzqirnvuqw tu,qwne.kotulqtuqko.qjhfewzqb.hti.rpktnuqny
ko.qk.btnfwqenc.e.ukwqfuwa.p pihzqupwkzsq.c.uqpkqkotwqytrwkq.ujnfuk.r,
kotwqytrwkqlhteaw.,qTqvpwqnc.rjne.qvtkoqbtwlfwkqpubqbr.pbs

Wfbb.uhzqko.qenuwk.rqcputwo.bsqTkqopbqknaah.bqnc.rqko.qirteqnyqko.
jzhtub.rqpubqyphh.uqtuknqko.qatk,qvtkoqpqkofbqht .qko.qyphhqnyqpqlr.pk
epwwqnyqh.pko.rsqTqo.prbqtkqltc.qpqa.jfhtprqkotj qjrz,qpubqynrkovtko
punko.rqnyqko.w.qjr.pkfr.wqpaa.pr.bqbpr hzqtuqko.qb..aqwopbnvqnyqko.
pa.rkfr.s

Tqkfru.bqpub,qrfuutulqepbhz,qepb.qynrqko.qytrwkqlrnfaqnyqkr..w,qa.ropaw
pqofubr.bqzprbwqpvpz;qifkqTqrpuqwhpuktulhzqpubqwkfeihtul,qynrqTqjnfhb
unkqpc.rkqezqypj.qyrneqko.w.qkotulws

Ko.r.,qpenulqwne.qznfulqatu.qkr..wqpubqyfrd.qifwo.w,qTqwknaa.b,
apuktul,qpubqvptk.bqyfrko.rqb.c.hnae.ukwsqKo.qjneenuqrnfubqko.
wpub-atkwqvpwqbnkk.bqvtkoqa.nah.,qwkpubtulqht .qezw.hyqtuqp
ophy-ypwjtupk.bqk.rrnr,qwkprtulqpkqko.w.qjr.pkfr.w,qnrqrpko.rqpkqko.
o.pa.bqlrpc.hqpkqko.q.bl.qnyqko.qatkqtuqvotjoqko.zqhpzsqPubqko.u,qvtko
pqr.u.v.bqonrrnr,qTqwpvqpqrnfub,qihpj qnig.jkqiniitulqfaqpubqbnvuqnu
ko.q.bl.qnyqko.qatksqTkqvpwqko.qo.pbqnyqko.qwonaepuqvonqopbqyphh.uqtu,
ifkqwonvtulqpwqpqhtkkh.qihpj qnig.jkqplptuwkqko.qonkqv.wk.ruqwfusqUnv
o.qlnkqotwqwonfhb.rqpubq u..qfa,qpubqplptuqo.qw..e.bqknqwhtaqipj qfukth
nuhzqotwqo.pbqvpwqctwtih.sqWfbb.uhzqo.qcputwo.b,qpubqTqjnfhbqopc.
ypujt.bqpqyptukqwort. qopbqr.pjo.bqe.sqTqopbqpqene.ukprzqteafhw.qknqln
ipj qpubqo.haqoteqkopkqezqy.prwqnc.rrfh.bs

.c.rzkotulqvpwqko.uqxftk.qtuctwtih.,qotbb.uqizqko.qb..aqatkqpubqko.
o.paqnyqwpubqkopkqko.qyphhqnyqko.qjzhtub.rqopbqepb.sqPuznu.qjnetul
phnulqko.qrnpbqyrneqJoniopeqnrqVn tulqvnfhbqopc.qi..uqpepd.bqpkqko.
wtlok—pqbvtubhtulqefhktkfb.qnyqa.ropawqpqofubr.bqa.nah.qnrqenr.
wkpubtulqtuqpqlr.pkqtrr.lfhprqjtrjh.,qtuqbtkjo.w,qi.otubqifwo.w,qi.otub
lpk.wqpubqo.bl.w,qwpztulqhtkkh.qknqnu.qpunko.rqpubqkopkqtuqwonrk,
.mjtk.bqwonfkw,qpubqwkprtul,qwkprtulqoprbqpkqpqy.vqo.pawqnyqwpubsqKo.
iprrnvqnyqltul.rqi..rqwknnb,qpqxf..rqb.r.htjk,qihpj qplptuwkqko.
ifrutulqw z,qpubqtuqko.qwpub-atkwqvpwqpqrnvqnyqb.w.rk.bqc.otjh.wqvtko
ko.trqonrw.wqy..btulqnfkqnyqunw.iplwqnrqapvtulqko.qlrnfubs


Cs

KO.qO.PK-RPZs

Pyk.rqko.qlhteaw.qTqopbqopbqnyqko.qEprktpuwq.e.rltulqyrneqko.qjzhtub.r
tuqvotjoqko.zqopbqjne.qknqko.q.prkoqyrneqko.trqahpu.k,qpq tubqny
ypwjtupktnuqaprphzw.bqezqpjktnuwsqTqr.eptu.bqwkpubtulq u..-b..aqtuqko.
o.pko.r,qwkprtulqpkqko.qenfubqkopkqotbqko.esqTqvpwqpqipkkh.lrnfubqny
y.prqpubqjfrtnwtkzs

Tqbtbqunkqbpr.qknqlnqipj qknvprbwqko.qatk,qifkqTqy.hkqpqapwwtnupk.
hnultulqknqa..rqtuknqtksqTqi.lpuqvph tul,qko.r.ynr.,qtuqpqitlqjfrc.,
w.. tulqwne.qantukqnyqcpukpl.qpubqjnuktufphhzqhnn tulqpkqko.qwpub-o.paw
kopkqotbqko.w.qu.v-jne.rwqknqnfrq.prkosqNuj.qpqh.pwoqnyqkotuqihpj 
votaw,qht .qko.qprewqnyqpuqnjknafw,qyhpwo.bqpjrnwwqko.qwfuw.kqpubqvpw
tee.btpk.hzqvtkobrpvu,qpubqpyk.rvprbwqpqkotuqrnbqrnw.qfa,qgntukqiz
gntuk,qi.prtulqpkqtkwqpa.mqpqjtrjfhprqbtw qkopkqwafuqvtkoqpqvniihtul
enktnusqVopkqjnfhbqi.qlntulqnuqko.r.?

Enwkqnyqko.qwa.jkpknrwqopbqlpko.r.bqtuqnu.qnrqkvnqlrnfaw—nu.qpqhtkkh.
jrnvbqknvprbwqVn tul,qko.qnko.rqpq unkqnyqa.nah.qtuqko.qbtr.jktnuqny
Joniopesq.ctb.ukhzqko.zqwopr.bqezqe.ukphqjnuyhtjksqKo.r.qv.r.qy.vqu.pr
e.sqNu.qepuqTqpaarnpjo.b—o.qvpw,qTqa.rj.tc.b,qpqu.tloinfrqnyqetu.,
konfloqTqbtbqunkq unvqotwqupe.—pubqpjjnwk.bsqIfkqtkqvpwqwjprj.hzqpqkte.
ynrqprktjfhpk.qjnuc.rwpktnus

“Vopkqflhzq_irfk.w_!”qo.qwptbsq“LnnbqLnb!qVopkqflhzqirfk.w!”qO.
r.a.pk.bqkotwqnc.rqpubqnc.rqplptus

“Btbqznfqw..qpqepuqtuqko.qatk?”qTqwptb;qifkqo.qepb.qunqpuwv.rqknqkopks
V.qi.jpe.qwth.uk,qpubqwknnbqvpkjotulqynrqpqkte.qwtb.qizqwtb.,qb.rtctul,
Tqypujz,qpqj.rkptuqjneynrkqtuqnu.qpunko.r’wqjneapuzsqKo.uqTqwotyk.bqez
anwtktnuqknqpqhtkkh.q unhhqkopkqlpc.qe.qko.qpbcpukpl.qnyqpqzprbqnrqenr.
nyq.h.cpktnuqpubqvo.uqTqhnn .bqynrqoteqar.w.ukhzqo.qvpwqvph tulqknvprbw
Vn tuls

Ko.qwfuw.kqypb.bqknqkvthtlokqi.ynr.qpuzkotulqyfrko.rqopaa.u.bsqKo.
jrnvbqyprqpvpzqnuqko.qh.yk,qknvprbwqVn tul,qw..e.bqknqlrnv,qpubqTqo.prb
unvqpqyptukqefrefrqyrneqtksqKo.qhtkkh.q unkqnyqa.nah.qknvprbwqJoniope
btwa.rw.bsqKo.r.qvpwqwjprj.hzqpuqtuktepktnuqnyqenc.e.ukqyrneqko.qatks

Tkqvpwqkotw,qpwqefjoqpwqpuzkotul,qkopkqlpc.qa.nah.qjnfrpl.,qpubqT
wfaanw.qko.qu.vqprrtcphwqyrneqVn tulqphwnqo.ha.bqknqr.wknr.qjnuytb.uj.s
Pkqpuzqrpk.,qpwqko.qbfw qjpe.qnuqpqwhnv,qtuk.retkk.ukqenc.e.ukqfanuqko.
wpub-atkwqi.lpu,qpqenc.e.ukqkopkqw..e.bqknqlpko.rqynrj.qpwqko.
wkthhu.wwqnyqko.q.c.utulqpinfkqko.qjzhtub.rqr.eptu.bqfuirn .usqC.rktjph
ihpj qytlfr.wqtuqkvnwqpubqkor..wqvnfhbqpbcpuj.,qwkna,qvpkjo,qpub
pbcpuj.qplptu,qwar.pbtulqnfkqpwqko.zqbtbqwnqtuqpqkotuqtrr.lfhpr
jr.wj.ukqkopkqarnetw.bqknq.ujhnw.qko.qatkqtuqtkwqpkk.ufpk.bqonruwsqT,
knn,qnuqezqwtb.qi.lpuqknqenc.qknvprbwqko.qatks

Ko.uqTqwpvqwne.qjpie.uqpubqnko.rwqopbqvph .bqinhbhzqtuknqko.qwpub-atkw,
pubqo.prbqko.qjhpkk.rqnyqonnywqpubqko.qlrtb.qnyqvo..hwsqTqwpvqpqhpb
krfubhtulqnyyqko.qiprrnvqnyqpaah.wsqPubqko.u,qvtkotuqkotrkzqzprbwqny
ko.qatk,qpbcpujtulqyrneqko.qbtr.jktnuqnyqOnrw.hh,qTqunk.bqpqhtkkh.
ihpj q unkqnyqe.u,qko.qynr.enwkqnyqvoneqvpwqvpctulqpqvotk.qyhpls

Kotwqvpwqko.qB.afkpktnusqKo.r.qopbqi..uqpqopwkzqjnuwfhkpktnu,qpubqwtuj.
ko.qEprktpuwqv.r.q.ctb.ukhz,qtuqwatk.qnyqko.trqr.afhwtc.qynrew,
tuk.hhtl.ukqjr.pkfr.w,qtkqopbqi..uqr.wnhc.bqknqwonvqko.e,qiz
paarnpjotulqko.eqvtkoqwtluphw,qkopkqv.qknnqv.r.qtuk.hhtl.uks

Yhfkk.r,qyhfkk.r,qv.ukqko.qyhpl,qytrwkqknqko.qrtlok,qko.uqknqko.qh.yks
Tkqvpwqknnqyprqynrqe.qknqr.jnlutw.qpuznu.qko.r.,qifkqpyk.rvprbwqT
h.pru.bqkopkqNlthcz,qWk.uk,qpubqO.ub.rwnuqv.r.qvtkoqnko.rwqtuqkotw
pkk.eakqpkqjneefutjpktnusqKotwqhtkkh.qlrnfaqopbqtuqtkwqpbcpuj.qbrpll.b
tuvprb,qwnqknqwa.p ,qko.qjtrjfey.r.uj.qnyqko.qunvqphenwkqjneah.k.
jtrjh.qnyqa.nah.,qpubqpqufei.rqnyqbteqihpj qytlfr.wqynhhnv.bqtkqpk
btwjr..kqbtwkpuj.ws

Wfbb.uhzqko.r.qvpwqpqyhpwoqnyqhtlok,qpubqpqxfpuktkzqnyqhfetunfw
lr..utwoqwen .qjpe.qnfkqnyqko.qatkqtuqkor..qbtwktujkqafyyw,qvotjoqbrnc.
fa,qnu.qpyk.rqko.qnko.r,qwkrptlokqtuknqko.qwkthhqptrs

Kotwqwen .q(nrqyhpe.,qa.ropaw,qvnfhbqi.qko.qi.kk.rqvnrbqynrqtk)qvpwqwn
irtlokqkopkqko.qb..aqihf.qw zqnc.ro.pbqpubqko.qopdzqwkr.kjo.wqnyqirnvu
jneenuqknvprbwqJo.rkw.z,qw.kqvtkoqihpj qatu.qkr..w,qw..e.bqknqbpr .u
pirfakhzqpwqko.w.qafyywqprnw.,qpubqknqr.eptuqko.qbpr .rqpyk.rqko.tr
btwa.rwphsqPkqko.qwpe.qkte.qpqyptukqotwwtulqwnfubqi.jpe.qpfbtih.s

I.znubqko.qatkqwknnbqko.qhtkkh.qv.bl.qnyqa.nah.qvtkoqko.qvotk.qyhplqpk
tkwqpa.m,qprr.wk.bqizqko.w.qao.une.up,qpqhtkkh.q unkqnyqwephhqc.rktjph
ihpj qwopa.wqfanuqko.qihpj qlrnfubsqPwqko.qlr..uqwen .qprnw.,qko.tr
ypj.wqyhpwo.bqnfkqaphhtbqlr..u,qpubqypb.bqplptuqpwqtkqcputwo.bsqKo.u
whnvhzqko.qotwwtulqapww.bqtuknqpqofeetul,qtuknqpqhnul,qhnfb,qbrnutul
untw.sqWhnvhzqpqofea.bqwopa.qrnw.qnfkqnyqko.qatk,qpubqko.qlonwkqnyqp
i.peqnyqhtlokqw..e.bqknqyhtj .rqnfkqyrneqtks

Ynrkovtkoqyhpwo.wqnyqpjkfphqyhpe.,qpqirtlokqlhpr.qh.patulqyrneqnu.qkn
punko.r,qwarpulqyrneqko.qwjpkk.r.bqlrnfaqnyqe.usqTkqvpwqpwqtyqwne.
tuctwtih.qg.kqteatul.bqfanuqko.eqpubqyhpwo.bqtuknqvotk.qyhpe.sqTkqvpw
pwqtyq.pjoqepuqv.r.qwfbb.uhzqpubqene.ukprthzqkfru.bqknqytr.s

Ko.u,qizqko.qhtlokqnyqko.trqnvuqb.wkrfjktnu,qTqwpvqko.eqwkpll.rtulqpub
yphhtul,qpubqko.trqwfaanrk.rwqkfrutulqknqrfus

Tqwknnbqwkprtul,qunkqpwqz.kqr.phtwtulqkopkqkotwqvpwqb.pkoqh.patulqyrne
epuqknqepuqtuqkopkqhtkkh.qbtwkpukqjrnvbsqPhhqTqy.hkqvpwqkopkqtkqvpw
wne.kotulqc.rzqwkrpul.sqPuqphenwkquntw.h.wwqpubqihtubtulqyhpwoqny
htlok,qpubqpqepuqy.hhqo.pbhnulqpubqhpzqwkthh;qpubqpwqko.qfuw..uqwopyk
nyqo.pkqapww.bqnc.rqko.e,qatu.qkr..wqifrwkqtuknqytr.,qpubq.c.rzqbrz
yfrd.qifwoqi.jpe.qvtkoqnu.qbfhhqkofbqpqepwwqnyqyhpe.wsqPubqyprqpvpz
knvprbwq upaothhqTqwpvqko.qyhpwo.wqnyqkr..wqpubqo.bl.wqpubqvnnb.u
ifthbtulwqwfbb.uhzqw.kqphtloks

Tkqvpwqwv..atulqrnfubqwvtykhzqpubqwk.pbthz,qkotwqyhpetulqb.pko,qkotw
tuctwtih.,qtu.ctkpih.qwvnrbqnyqo.pksqTqa.rj.tc.bqtkqjnetulqknvprbwqe.
izqko.qyhpwotulqifwo.wqtkqknfjo.b,qpubqvpwqknnqpwknfub.bqpubqwkfa.yt.b
knqwktrsqTqo.prbqko.qjrpj h.qnyqytr.qtuqko.qwpub-atkwqpubqko.qwfbb.u
wxf.phqnyqpqonrw.qkopkqvpwqpwqwfbb.uhzqwkthh.bsqKo.uqtkqvpwqpwqtyqpu
tuctwtih.qz.kqtuk.uw.hzqo.pk.bqytul.rqv.r.qbrpvuqkornfloqko.qo.pko.r
i.kv..uqe.qpubqko.qEprktpuw,qpubqphhqphnulqpqjfrctulqhtu.qi.znubqko.
wpub-atkwqko.qbpr qlrnfubqwen .bqpubqjrpj h.bsqWne.kotulqy.hhqvtkoqp
jrpwoqyprqpvpzqknqko.qh.ykqvo.r.qko.qrnpbqyrneqVn tulqwkpktnuqna.uwqnfk
nuqko.qjneenusqYnrko-vtkoqko.qotwwtulqpubqofeetulqj.pw.b,qpubqko.
ihpj ,qbne.-ht .qnig.jkqwpu qwhnvhzqnfkqnyqwtlokqtuknqko.qatks

Phhqkotwqopbqopaa.u.bqvtkoqwfjoqwvtyku.wwqkopkqTqopbqwknnbqenktnuh.ww,
bfeiynfub.bqpubqbpddh.bqizqko.qyhpwo.wqnyqhtloksqOpbqkopkqb.pkoqwv.ak
kornfloqpqyfhhqjtrjh.,qtkqefwkqtu.ctkpihzqopc.qwhptuqe.qtuqezqwfrartw.s
Ifkqtkqapww.bqpubqwapr.bqe.,qpubqh.ykqko.qutlokqpinfkqe.qwfbb.uhzqbpr 
pubqfuypethtprs

Ko.qfubfhpktulqjneenuqw..e.bqunvqbpr qphenwkqknqihpj u.ww,q.mj.akqvo.r.
tkwqrnpbvpzwqhpzqlr.zqpubqaph.qfub.rqko.qb..aqihf.qw zqnyqko.q.prhz
utloksqTkqvpwqbpr ,qpubqwfbb.uhzqcntbqnyqe.usqNc.ro.pbqko.qwkprwqv.r.
efwk.rtul,qpubqtuqko.qv.wkqko.qw zqvpwqwkthhqpqaph.,qirtlok,qphenwk
lr..utwoqihf.sqKo.qknawqnyqko.qatu.qkr..wqpubqko.qrnnywqnyqOnrw.hhqjpe.
nfkqwopraqpubqihpj qplptuwkqko.qv.wk.ruqpyk.rlhnvsqKo.qEprktpuwqpub
ko.trqpaahtpuj.wqv.r.qphknl.ko.rqtuctwtih.,qwpc.qynrqkopkqkotuqepwk
fanuqvotjoqko.trqr.wkh.wwqetrrnrqvniih.bsqApkjo.wqnyqifwoqpubqtwnhpk.b
kr..wqo.r.qpubqko.r.qwen .bqpubqlhnv.bqwkthh,qpubqko.qonfw.wqknvprbw
Vn tulqwkpktnuqv.r.qw.ubtulqfaqwatr.wqnyqyhpe.qtuknqko.qwkthhu.wwqny
ko.q.c.utulqptrs

Unkotulqvpwqjopul.bqwpc.qynrqkopkqpubqpqk.rrtih.qpwknutwoe.uksqKo.
htkkh.qlrnfaqnyqihpj qwa.j wqvtkoqko.qyhplqnyqvotk.qopbqi..uqwv.akqnfk
nyq.mtwk.uj.,qpubqko.qwkthhu.wwqnyqko.q.c.utul,qwnqtkqw..e.bqknqe.,qopb
wjprj.hzqi..uqirn .us

Tkqjpe.qknqe.qkopkqTqvpwqfanuqkotwqbpr qjneenu,qo.hah.ww,qfuarnk.jk.b,
pubqphnu.sqWfbb.uhz,qht .qpqkotulqyphhtulqfanuqe.qyrneqvtkonfk,
jpe.—y.prs

Vtkoqpuq.yynrkqTqkfru.bqpubqi.lpuqpqwkfeihtulqrfuqkornfloqko.qo.pko.rs

Ko.qy.prqTqy.hkqvpwqunqrpktnuphqy.pr,qifkqpqaputjqk.rrnrqunkqnuhzqny
ko.qEprktpuw,qifkqnyqko.qbfw qpubqwkthhu.wwqphhqpinfkqe.sqWfjoqpu
.mkrpnrbtuprzq.yy.jkqtuqfuepuutulqe.qtkqopbqkopkqTqrpuqv..atulqwth.ukhz
pwqpqjothbqetlokqbnsqNuj.qTqopbqkfru.b,qTqbtbqunkqbpr.qknqhnn qipj s

Tqr.e.ei.rqTqy.hkqpuq.mkrpnrbtuprzqa.rwfpwtnuqkopkqTqvpwqi.tulqahpz.b
vtko,qkopkqar.w.ukhz,qvo.uqTqvpwqfanuqko.qc.rzqc.rl.qnyqwpy.kz,qkotw
ezwk.rtnfwqb.pko—pwqwvtykqpwqko.qapwwpl.qnyqhtlok—vnfhbqh.paqpyk.rqe.
yrneqko.qatkqpinfkqko.qjzhtub.r,qpubqwkrt .qe.qbnvus


CTs

KO.qO.PK-RPZqTUqKO.qJONIOPEqRNPBs

Tkqtwqwkthhqpqepkk.rqnyqvnub.rqonvqko.qEprktpuwqpr.qpih.qknqwhpzqe.uqwn
wvtykhzqpubqwnqwth.ukhzsqEpuzqkotu qkopkqtuqwne.qvpzqko.zqpr.qpih.qkn
l.u.rpk.qpuqtuk.uw.qo.pkqtuqpqjopei.rqnyqarpjktjphhzqpiwnhfk.
unu-jnubfjktctkzsqKotwqtuk.uw.qo.pkqko.zqarng.jkqtuqpqaprphh.hqi.pe
plptuwkqpuzqnig.jkqko.zqjonnw.,qizqe.puwqnyqpqanhtwo.bqaprpinhtjqetrrnr
nyqfu unvuqjneanwtktnu,qefjoqpwqko.qaprpinhtjqetrrnrqnyqpqhtlokonfw.
arng.jkwqpqi.peqnyqhtloksqIfkqunqnu.qopwqpiwnhfk.hzqarnc.bqko.w.
b.kpthwsqOnv.c.rqtkqtwqbnu.,qtkqtwqj.rkptuqkopkqpqi.peqnyqo.pkqtwqko.
.ww.uj.qnyqko.qepkk.rsqO.pk,qpubqtuctwtih.,qtuwk.pbqnyqctwtih.,qhtloks
Vopk.c.rqtwqjneifwktih.qyhpwo.wqtuknqyhpe.qpkqtkwqknfjo,qh.pbqrfuwqht .
vpk.r,qtkqwnyk.uwqtrnu,qjrpj wqpubqe.hkwqlhpww,qpubqvo.uqtkqyphhwqfanu
vpk.r,qtujnuktu.ukhzqkopkq.mahnb.wqtuknqwk.pes

Kopkqutlokqu.prhzqynrkzqa.nah.qhpzqfub.rqko.qwkprhtlokqpinfkqko.qatk,
joprr.bqpubqbtwknrk.bqi.znubqr.jnlutktnu,qpubqphhqutlokqhnulqko.qjneenu
yrneqOnrw.hhqknqEpzifrzqvpwqb.w.rk.bqpubqirtlokhzqpihpd.s

Ko.qu.vwqnyqko.qepwwpjr.qarnipihzqr.pjo.bqJoniope,qVn tul,qpub
Nkk.rwopvqpinfkqko.qwpe.qkte.sqTuqVn tulqko.qwonawqopbqjhnw.bqvo.uqko.
krpl.bzqopaa.u.b,qpubqpqufei.rqnyqa.nah.,qwonaqa.nah.qpubqwnqynrko,
pkkrpjk.bqizqko.qwknrt.wqko.zqopbqo.prb,qv.r.qvph tulqnc.rqko.qOnrw.hh
Irtbl.qpubqphnulqko.qrnpbqi.kv..uqko.qo.bl.wqkopkqrfuwqnfkqpkqhpwkqfanu
ko.qjneenusqZnfqepzqtepltu.qko.qznfulqa.nah.qirfwo.bqfaqpyk.rqko.
hpinfrwqnyqko.qbpz,qpubqep tulqkotwqunc.hkz,qpwqko.zqvnfhbqep .qpuz
unc.hkz,qko.q.mjfw.qynrqvph tulqknl.ko.rqpubq.ugnztulqpqkrtctph
yhtrkpktnusqZnfqepzqytlfr.qknqznfrw.hyqko.qofeqnyqcntj.wqphnulqko.qrnpb
tuqko.qlhnpetulsqsqsqs

Pwqz.k,qnyqjnfrw.,qy.vqa.nah.qtuqVn tulq.c.uq u.vqkopkqko.qjzhtub.rqopb
na.u.b,qkonfloqannrqO.ub.rwnuqopbqw.ukqpqe.ww.ul.rqnuqpqitjzjh.qknqko.
anwkqnyytj.qvtkoqpqwa.jtphqvtr.qknqpuq.c.utulqapa.rs

Pwqko.w.qynh wqjpe.qnfkqizqkvnwqpubqkor..wqfanuqko.qna.u,qko.zqynfub
htkkh.q unkwqnyqa.nah.qkph tulq.mjtk.bhzqpubqa..rtulqpkqko.qwatuutul
etrrnrqnc.rqko.qwpub-atkw,qpubqko.qu.vjne.rwqv.r.,qunqbnfik,qwnnu
tuy.jk.bqizqko.q.mjtk.e.ukqnyqko.qnjjpwtnus

Izqophyqapwkq.tlok,qvo.uqko.qB.afkpktnuqvpwqb.wkrnz.b,qko.r.qepzqopc.
i..uqpqjrnvbqnyqkor..qofubr.bqa.nah.qnrqenr.qpkqkotwqahpj.,qi.wtb.w
konw.qvonqopbqh.ykqko.qrnpbqknqpaarnpjoqko.qEprktpuwqu.pr.rsqKo.r.qv.r.
kor..qanhtj.e.uqknn,qnu.qnyqvoneqvpwqenfuk.b,qbntulqko.trqi.wk,qfub.r
tuwkrfjktnuwqyrneqWk.uk,qknq ..aqko.qa.nah.qipj qpubqb.k.rqko.eqyrne
paarnpjotulqko.qjzhtub.rsqKo.r.qvpwqwne.qinntulqyrneqkonw.qenr.
konflokh.wwqpubq.mjtkpih.qwnfhwqknqvoneqpqjrnvbqtwqphvpzwqpuqnjjpwtnu
ynrquntw.qpubqonrw.-ahpzs

Wk.ukqpubqNlthcz,qpuktjtapktulqwne.qanwwtithtkt.wqnyqpqjnhhtwtnu,qopb
k.h.lrpao.bqyrneqOnrw.hhqknqko.qiprrpj wqpwqwnnuqpwqko.qEprktpuw
.e.rl.b,qynrqko.qo.haqnyqpqjneapuzqnyqwnhbt.rwqknqarnk.jkqko.w.qwkrpul.
jr.pkfr.wqyrneqctnh.uj.sqPyk.rqkopkqko.zqr.kfru.bqknqh.pbqkopk
thh-ypk.bqpbcpuj.sqKo.qb.wjrtaktnuqnyqko.trqb.pko,qpwqtkqvpwqw..uqiz
ko.qjrnvb,qkphht.wqc.rzqjhnw.hzqvtkoqezqnvuqtear.wwtnuw:qko.qkor..
afyywqnyqlr..uqwen .,qko.qb..aqofeetulqunk.,qpubqko.qyhpwo.wqnyqyhpe.s

Ifkqkopkqjrnvbqnyqa.nah.qopbqpqyprquprrnv.rq.wjpa.qkopuqetu.sqNuhzqko.
ypjkqkopkqpqofeenj qnyqo.pko.rzqwpubqtuk.rj.ak.bqko.qhnv.rqaprkqnyqko.
O.pk-Rpzqwpc.bqko.esqOpbqko.q.h.cpktnuqnyqko.qaprpinhtjqetrrnrqi..uqp
y.vqzprbwqotlo.r,qunu.qjnfhbqopc.qhtc.bqknqk.hhqko.qkph.sqKo.zqwpvqko.
yhpwo.wqpubqko.qe.uqyphhtulqpubqpuqtuctwtih.qopub,qpwqtkqv.r.,qhtkqko.
ifwo.wqpwqtkqofrrt.bqknvprbwqko.eqkornfloqko.qkvthtloksqKo.u,qvtkoqp
votwkhtulqunk.qkopkqrnw.qpinc.qko.qbrnutulqnyqko.qatk,qko.qi.peqwvful
jhnw.qnc.rqko.trqo.pbw,qhtloktulqko.qknawqnyqko.qi..joqkr..wqkopkqhtu.
ko.qrnpb,qpubqwahtkktulqko.qirtj w,qwepwotulqko.qvtubnvw,qytrtulqko.
vtubnvqyrpe.w,qpubqirtultulqbnvuqtuqjrfeihtulqrftuqpqanrktnuqnyqko.
lpih.qnyqko.qonfw.qu.pr.wkqko.qjnru.rs

Tuqko.qwfbb.uqkofb,qotww,qpubqlhpr.qnyqko.qtlutktulqkr..w,qko.
aputj-wkrtj .uqjrnvbqw..ewqknqopc.qwvpz.bqo.wtkpktulhzqynrqwne.
ene.ukwsqWapr wqpubqifrutulqkvtlwqi.lpuqknqyphhqtuknqko.qrnpb,qpub
wtulh.qh.pc.wqht .qafyywqnyqyhpe.sqOpkwqpubqbr.ww.wqjpflokqytr.sqKo.u
jpe.qpqjrztulqyrneqko.qjneenusqKo.r.qv.r.qwort. wqpubqwonfkw,qpub
wfbb.uhzqpqenfuk.bqanhtj.epuqjpe.qlphhnatulqkornfloqko.qjnuyfwtnuqvtko
otwqopubwqjhpwa.bqnc.rqotwqo.pb,qwjr.petuls

“Ko.z’r.qjnetul!”qpqvnepuqwort. .b,qpubqtujnuktu.ukhzq.c.rznu.qvpw
kfrutulqpubqafwotulqpkqkonw.qi.otub,qtuqnrb.rqknqjh.prqko.trqvpzqkn
Vn tulqplptusqKo.zqefwkqopc.qinhk.bqpwqihtubhzqpwqpqyhnj qnyqwo..as
Vo.r.qko.qrnpbqlrnvwquprrnvqpubqihpj qi.kv..uqko.qotloqipu wqko.qjrnvb
gpee.b,qpubqpqb.wa.rpk.qwkrfllh.qnjjfrr.bsqPhhqkopkqjrnvbqbtbqunk
.wjpa.;qkor..qa.rwnuwqpkqh.pwk,qkvnqvne.uqpubqpqhtkkh.qinz,qv.r.
jrfwo.bqpubqkrpeah.bqko.r.,qpubqh.ykqknqbt.qpetbqko.qk.rrnrqpubqko.
bpr u.wws


CTTs

ONVqTqR.PJO.BqONE.s

Ynrqezqnvuqaprk,qTqr.e.ei.rqunkotulqnyqezqyhtlokq.mj.akqko.qwkr.wwqny
ihfub.rtulqplptuwkqkr..wqpubqwkfeihtulqkornfloqko.qo.pko.rsqPhhqpinfk
e.qlpko.r.bqko.qtuctwtih.qk.rrnrwqnyqko.qEprktpuw;qkopkqatkth.wwqwvnrb
nyqo.pkqw..e.bqvotrhtulqknqpubqyrn,qyhnfrtwotulqnc.ro.pbqi.ynr.qtk
b.wj.ub.bqpubqwenk.qe.qnfkqnyqhty.sqTqjpe.qtuknqko.qrnpbqi.kv..uqko.
jrnwwrnpbwqpubqOnrw.hh,qpubqrpuqphnulqkotwqknqko.qjrnwwrnpbws

PkqhpwkqTqjnfhbqlnqunqyfrko.r;qTqvpwq.mopfwk.bqvtkoqko.qctnh.uj.qnyqez
.enktnuqpubqnyqezqyhtlok,qpubqTqwkpll.r.bqpubqy.hhqizqko.qvpzwtb.sqKopk
vpwqu.prqko.qirtbl.qkopkqjrnww.wqko.qjpuphqizqko.qlpwvnr wsqTqy.hhqpub
hpzqwkthhs

Tqefwkqopc.qr.eptu.bqko.r.qwne.qkte.s

Tqwpkqfa,qwkrpul.hzqa.rah.m.bsqYnrqpqene.uk,qa.ropaw,qTqjnfhbqunk
jh.prhzqfub.rwkpubqonvqTqjpe.qko.r.sqEzqk.rrnrqopbqyphh.uqyrneqe.qht .
pqlpre.uksqEzqopkqopbqlnu.,qpubqezqjnhhprqopbqifrwkqpvpzqyrneqtkw
ypwk.u.rsqPqy.vqetufk.wqi.ynr.,qko.r.qopbqnuhzqi..uqkor..qr.phqkotulw
i.ynr.qe.—ko.qtee.uwtkzqnyqko.qutlokqpubqwapj.qpubqupkfr.,qezqnvu
y..ih.u.wwqpubqpulftwo,qpubqko.qu.prqpaarnpjoqnyqb.pkosqUnvqtkqvpwqpw
tyqwne.kotulqkfru.bqnc.r,qpubqko.qantukqnyqct.vqphk.r.bqpirfakhzsqKo.r.
vpwqunqw.uwtih.qkrpuwtktnuqyrneqnu.qwkpk.qnyqetubqknqko.qnko.rsqTqvpw
tee.btpk.hzqko.qw.hyqnyq.c.rzqbpzqplptu—pqb.j.uk,qnrbtuprzqjtktd.usqKo.
wth.ukqjneenu,qko.qteafhw.qnyqezqyhtlok,qko.qwkprktulqyhpe.w,qv.r.qpw
tyqko.zqopbqi..uqtuqpqbr.pesqTqpw .bqezw.hyqopbqko.w.qhpkk.rqkotulw
tub..bqopaa.u.b?qTqjnfhbqunkqjr.btkqtks

Tqrnw.qpubqvph .bqfuwk.pbthzqfaqko.qwk..aqtujhtu.qnyqko.qirtbl.sqEz
etubqvpwqihpu qvnub.rsqEzqefwjh.wqpubqu.rc.wqw..e.bqbrptu.bqnyqko.tr
wkr.ulkosqTqbpr.qwpzqTqwkpll.r.bqbrfu .uhzsqPqo.pbqrnw.qnc.rqko.qprjo,
pubqko.qytlfr.qnyqpqvnr epuqjprrztulqpqipw .kqpaa.pr.bsqI.wtb.qoteqrpu
pqhtkkh.qinzsqO.qapww.bqe.,qvtwotulqe.qlnnbqutloksqTqvpwqetub.bqkn
wa.p qknqote,qifkqbtbqunksqTqpuwv.r.bqotwqlr..ktulqvtkoqpqe.putulh.ww
efeih.qpubqv.ukqnuqnc.rqko.qirtbl.s

Nc.rqko.qEpzifrzqprjoqpqkrptu,qpqithhnvtulqkfefhkqnyqvotk.,qytr.htk
wen .,qpubqpqhnulqjpk.rathhprqnyqhtlok.bqvtubnvw,qv.ukqyhztul
wnfko—jhpkk.r,qjhpkk.r,qjhpa,qrpa,qpubqtkqopbqlnu.sqPqbteqlrnfaqny
a.nah.qkph .bqtuqko.qlpk.qnyqnu.qnyqko.qonfw.wqtuqko.qar.kkzqhtkkh.qrnv
nyqlpih.wqkopkqvpwqjphh.bqNrt.ukphqK.rrpj.sqTkqvpwqphhqwnqr.phqpubqwn
ypethtprsqPubqkopkqi.otubqe.!qTkqvpwqyrpuktj,qypukpwktj!qWfjoqkotulw,qT
knhbqezw.hy,qjnfhbqunkqi.s

A.ropawqTqpeqpqepuqnyq.mj.aktnuphqennbwsqTqbnqunkq unvqonvqyprqez
.ma.rt.uj.qtwqjneenusqPkqkte.wqTqwfyy.rqyrneqko.qwkrpul.wkqw.uw.qny
b.kpjoe.ukqyrneqezw.hyqpubqko.qvnrhbqpinfkqe.;qTqw..eqknqvpkjoqtkqphh
yrneqko.qnfkwtb.,qyrneqwne.vo.r.qtujnuj.tcpihzqr.enk.,qnfkqnyqkte.,qnfk
nyqwapj.,qnfkqnyqko.qwkr.wwqpubqkrpl.bzqnyqtkqphhsqKotwqy..htulqvpw
c.rzqwkrnulqfanuqe.qkopkqutloksqO.r.qvpwqpunko.rqwtb.qknqezqbr.pes

Ifkqko.qkrnfih.qvpwqko.qihpu qtujnulrftkzqnyqkotwqw.r.utkzqpubqko.
wvtykqb.pkoqyhztulqznub.r,qunkqkvnqeth.wqpvpzsqKo.r.qvpwqpquntw.qny
ifwtu.wwqyrneqko.qlpwvnr w,qpubqko.q.h.jkrtjqhpeawqv.r.qphhqphtloksqT
wknaa.bqpkqko.qlrnfaqnyqa.nah.s

“Vopkqu.vwqyrneqko.qjneenu?”qwptbqTs

Ko.r.qv.r.qkvnqe.uqpubqpqvnepuqpkqko.qlpk.s

“.o?”qwptbqnu.qnyqko.qe.u,qkfrutuls

“Vopkqu.vwqyrneqko.qjneenu?”qTqwptbs

“Ptu’kqz.rqgfwkq_i..u_qko.r.?”qpw .bqko.qe.us

“A.nah.qw..eqyptrqwthhzqpinfkqko.qjneenu,”qwptbqko.qvnepuqnc.rqko.
lpk.sq“Vopk’wqtkqphhqpiprk?”

“Opc.u’kqznfqo.prbqnyqko.qe.uqyrneqEprw?”qwptbqT;q“ko.qjr.pkfr.wqyrne
Eprw?”

“Xftk.q.unflo,”qwptbqko.qvnepuqnc.rqko.qlpk.sq“Ko.u w”;qpubqphhqkor..
nyqko.eqhpflo.bs

Tqy.hkqynnhtwoqpubqpulrzsqTqkrt.bqpubqynfubqTqjnfhbqunkqk.hhqko.eqvopk
Tqopbqw..usqKo.zqhpflo.bqplptuqpkqezqirn .uqw.uk.uj.ws

“Znf’hhqo.prqenr.qz.k,”qTqwptb,qpubqv.ukqnuqknqezqone.s

Tqwkprkh.bqezqvty.qpkqko.qbnnrvpz,qwnqopllprbqvpwqTsqTqv.ukqtuknqko.
btutulqrnne,qwpkqbnvu,qbrpu qwne.qvtu.,qpubqwnqwnnuqpwqTqjnfhbqjnhh.jk
ezw.hyqwfyytjt.ukhzqTqknhbqo.rqko.qkotulwqTqopbqw..usqKo.qbtuu.r,qvotjo
vpwqpqjnhbqnu.,qopbqphr.pbzqi..uqw.rc.b,qpubqr.eptu.bqu.lh.jk.bqnuqko.
kpih.qvoth.qTqknhbqezqwknrzs

“Ko.r.qtwqnu.qkotul,”qTqwptb,qknqphhpzqko.qy.prwqTqopbqprnfw.b;q“ko.z
pr.qko.qenwkqwhflltwoqkotulwqTq.c.rqwpvqjrpvhsqKo.zqepzq ..aqko.qatk
pubq thhqa.nah.qvonqjne.qu.prqko.e,qifkqko.zqjpuunkql.kqnfkqnyqtksqsqs
sqIfkqko.qonrrnrqnyqko.e!”

“Bnu’k,qb.pr!”qwptbqezqvty.,q utkktulqo.rqirnvwqpubqafkktulqo.rqopubqnu
etu.s

“AnnrqNlthcz!”qTqwptbsq“Knqkotu qo.qepzqi.qhztulqb.pbqko.r.!”

Ezqvty.qpkqh.pwkqbtbqunkqytubqezq.ma.rt.uj.qtujr.btih.sqVo.uqTqwpvqonv
b.pbhzqvotk.qo.rqypj.qvpw,qTqj.pw.bqpirfakhzs

“Ko.zqepzqjne.qo.r.,”qwo.qwptbqplptuqpubqplptus

Tqar.ww.bqo.rqknqkp .qvtu.,qpubqkrt.bqknqr.pwwfr.qo.rs

“Ko.zqjpuqwjprj.hzqenc.,”qTqwptbs

Tqi.lpuqknqjneynrkqo.rqpubqezw.hyqizqr.a.pktulqphhqkopkqNlthczqopbqknhb
e.qnyqko.qteanwwtithtkzqnyqko.qEprktpuwq.wkpihtwotulqko.ew.hc.wqnuqko.
.prkosqTuqaprktjfhprqTqhptbqwkr.wwqnuqko.qlrpctkpktnuphqbtyytjfhkzsqNu
ko.qwfrypj.qnyqko.q.prkoqko.qynrj.qnyqlrpctkzqtwqkor..qkte.wqvopkqtkqtw
nuqko.qwfrypj.qnyqEprwsqPqEprktpu,qko.r.ynr.,qvnfhbqv.tloqkor..qkte.w
enr.qkopuqnuqEprw,qphi.tkqotwqefwjfhprqwkr.ulkoqvnfhbqi.qko.qwpe.sqOtw
nvuqinbzqvnfhbqi.qpqjna.qnyqh.pbqknqote,qko.r.ynr.sqKopk,qtub..b,qvpw
ko.ql.u.rphqnatutnusqInkoq_Ko.qKte.w_qpubqko.q_BpthzqK.h.lrpao_,qynr
tuwkpuj.,qtuwtwk.bqnuqtkqko.qu.mkqenrutul,qpubqinkoqnc.rhnn .b,qgfwkqpw
Tqbtb,qkvnqnictnfwqenbtyztulqtuyhf.uj.ws

Ko.qpkenwao.r.qnyqko.q.prko,qv.qunvq unv,qjnukptuwqyprqenr.qnmzl.uqnr
yprqh.wwqprlnuq(votjo.c.rqvpzqnu.qht .wqknqafkqtk)qkopuqbn.wqEprw’sqKo.
tuctlnrpktulqtuyhf.uj.wqnyqkotwq.mj.wwqnyqnmzl.uqfanuqko.qEprktpuw
tubtwafkpihzqbtbqefjoqknqjnfuk.riphpuj.qko.qtujr.pw.bqv.tlokqnyqko.tr
inbt.wsqPub,qtuqko.qw.jnubqahpj.,qv.qphhqnc.rhnn .bqko.qypjkqkopkqwfjo
e.joputjphqtuk.hhtl.uj.qpwqko.qEprktpuqanww.ww.bqvpwqxftk.qpih.qkn
btwa.uw.qvtkoqefwjfhprq.m.rktnuqpkqpqatujos

IfkqTqbtbqunkqjnuwtb.rqko.w.qantukwqpkqko.qkte.,qpubqwnqezqr.pwnutul
vpwqb.pbqplptuwkqko.qjopuj.wqnyqko.qtucpb.rwsqVtkoqvtu.qpubqynnb,qko.
jnuytb.uj.qnyqezqnvuqkpih.,qpubqko.qu.j.wwtkzqnyqr.pwwfrtulqezqvty.,qT
lr.vqizqtuw.uwtih.qb.lr..wqjnfrpl.nfwqpubqw.jfr.s

“Ko.zqopc.qbnu.qpqynnhtwoqkotul,”qwptbqT,qytul.rtulqezqvtu.lhpwwsq“Ko.z
pr.qbpul.rnfwqi.jpfw.,qunqbnfik,qko.zqpr.qepbqvtkoqk.rrnrsqA.ropawqko.z
.ma.jk.bqknqytubqunqhtctulqkotulw—j.rkptuhzqunqtuk.hhtl.ukqhtctul
kotulws”

“Pqwo.hhqtuqko.qatk,”qwptbqT,q“tyqko.qvnrwkqjne.wqknqko.qvnrwk,qvthh
 thhqko.eqphhs”

Ko.qtuk.uw.q.mjtk.e.ukqnyqko.q.c.ukwqopbqunqbnfikqh.ykqezqa.rj.aktc.
anv.rwqtuqpqwkpk.qnyq.r.kotwesqTqr.e.ei.rqkopkqbtuu.rqkpih.qvtko
.mkrpnrbtuprzqctctbu.wwq.c.uqunvsqEzqb.prqvty.’wqwv..kqpumtnfwqypj.
a..rtulqpkqe.qyrneqfub.rqko.qatu qhpeaqwopb.,qko.qvotk.qjhnkoqvtkoqtkw
wthc.rqpubqlhpwwqkpih.qyfrutkfr.—ynrqtuqkonw.qbpzwq.c.uqaothnwnaotjph
vrtk.rwqopbqepuzqhtkkh.qhfmfrt.w—ko.qjrtewnu-afrah.qvtu.qtuqezqlhpww,
pr.qaonknlrpaotjphhzqbtwktujksqPkqko.q.ubqnyqtkqTqwpk,qk.ea.rtulqufkw
vtkoqpqjtlpr.kk.,qr.lr.kktulqNlthcz’wqrpwou.ww,qpubqb.unfujtulqko.
wonrk-wtlok.bqktetbtkzqnyqko.qEprktpuws

Wnqwne.qr.wa.jkpih.qbnbnqtuqko.qEpfrtktfwqetlokqopc.qhnrb.bqtkqtuqotw
u.wk,qpubqbtwjfww.bqko.qprrtcphqnyqkopkqwotayfhqnyqatkth.wwqwpthnrwqtu
vpukqnyqputephqynnbsq“V.qvthhqa.j qko.eqknqb.pkoqknenrrnv,qezqb.prs”

Tqbtbqunkq unvqtk,qifkqkopkqvpwqko.qhpwkqjtcthtw.bqbtuu.rqTqvpwqknq.pk
ynrqc.rzqepuzqwkrpul.qpubqk.rrtih.qbpzws


CTTTs

YRTBPZqUTLOKs

Ko.qenwkq.mkrpnrbtuprzqkotulqknqezqetub,qnyqphhqko.qwkrpul.qpub
vnub.ryfhqkotulwqkopkqopaa.u.bqfanuqkopkqYrtbpz,qvpwqko.qbnc.kpthtulqny
ko.qjneenuahpj.qopitkwqnyqnfrqwnjtphqnrb.rqvtkoqko.qytrwkqi.ltuutulwqny
ko.qw.rt.wqnyq.c.ukwqkopkqvpwqknqknaah.qkopkqwnjtphqnrb.rqo.pbhnulsqTy
nuqYrtbpzqutlokqznfqopbqkp .uqpqaptrqnyqjneapww.wqpubqbrpvuqpqjtrjh.
vtkoqpqrpbtfwqnyqytc.qeth.wqrnfubqko.qVn tulqwpub-atkw,qTqbnfikqtyqznf
vnfhbqopc.qopbqnu.qofepuqi.tulqnfkwtb.qtk,qfuh.wwqtkqv.r.qwne.qr.hpktnu
nyqWk.ukqnrqnyqko.qkor..qnrqynfrqjzjhtwkwqnrqHnubnuqa.nah.qhztulqb.pb
nuqko.qjneenu,qvonw.q.enktnuwqnrqopitkwqv.r.qpkqphhqpyy.jk.bqizqko.
u.v-jne.rwsqEpuzqa.nah.qopbqo.prbqnyqko.qjzhtub.r,qnyqjnfrw.,qpub
kph .bqpinfkqtkqtuqko.trqh.twfr.,qifkqtkqj.rkptuhzqbtbqunkqep .qko.
w.uwpktnuqkopkqpuqfhktepkfeqknqL.repuzqvnfhbqopc.qbnu.s

TuqHnubnuqkopkqutlokqannrqO.ub.rwnu’wqk.h.lrpeqb.wjrtitulqko.qlrpbfph
fuwjr.vtulqnyqko.qwonkqvpwqgfbl.bqknqi.qpqjpuprb,qpubqotwq.c.utul
apa.r,qpyk.rqvtrtulqynrqpfko.uktjpktnuqyrneqoteqpubqr.j.tctulqun
r.ahz—ko.qepuqvpwq thh.b—b.jtb.bqunkqknqartukqpqwa.jtphq.btktnus

.c.uqvtkotuqko.qytc.-eth.qjtrjh.qko.qlr.pkqepgnrtkzqnyqa.nah.qv.r.
tu.rksqTqopc.qphr.pbzqb.wjrti.bqko.qi.opctnfrqnyqko.qe.uqpubqvne.uqkn
voneqTqwan .sqPhhqnc.rqko.qbtwkrtjkqa.nah.qv.r.qbtutulqpubqwfaatul;
vnr tulqe.uqv.r.qlprb.utulqpyk.rqko.qhpinfrwqnyqko.qbpz,qjothbr.uqv.r.
i.tulqafkqknqi.b,qznfulqa.nah.qv.r.qvpub.rtulqkornfloqko.qhpu.w
hnc.-ep tul,qwkfb.ukwqwpkqnc.rqko.trqinn ws

Epzi.qko.r.qvpwqpqefrefrqtuqko.qcthhpl.qwkr..kw,qpqunc.hqpubqbnetupuk
knatjqtuqko.qafihtj-onfw.w,qpubqo.r.qpubqko.r.qpqe.ww.ul.r,qnrq.c.uqpu
.z.-vtku.wwqnyqko.qhpk.rqnjjfrr.uj.w,qjpfw.bqpqvotrhqnyq.mjtk.e.uk,qp
wonfktul,qpubqpqrfuutulqknqpubqyrn;qifkqynrqko.qenwkqaprkqko.qbpthz
rnfktu.qnyqvnr tul,q.pktul,qbrtu tul,qwh..atul,qv.ukqnuqpwqtkqopbqbnu.
ynrqjnfukh.wwqz.prw—pwqkonfloqunqahpu.kqEprwq.mtwk.bqtuqko.qw zsq.c.u
pkqVn tulqwkpktnuqpubqOnrw.hhqpubqJoniopeqkopkqvpwqko.qjpw.s

TuqVn tulqgfujktnu,qfukthqpqhpk.qonfr,qkrptuwqv.r.qwknaatulqpubqlntul
nu,qnko.rwqv.r.qwofuktulqnuqko.qwtbtulw,qapww.ul.rwqv.r.qphtloktulqpub
vptktul,qpubq.c.rzkotulqvpwqarnj..btulqtuqko.qenwkqnrbtuprzqvpzsqPqinz
yrneqko.qknvu,qkr.ujotulqnuqWetko’wqenunanhz,qvpwqw.hhtulqapa.rwqvtko
ko.qpyk.runnu’wqu.vwsqKo.qrtultulqteapjkqnyqkrfj w,qko.qwopraqvotwkh.
nyqko.q.ultu.wqyrneqko.qgfujktnu,qetulh.bqvtkoqko.trqwonfkwqnyq“E.u
yrneqEprw!”q.mjtk.bqe.uqjpe.qtuknqko.qwkpktnuqpinfkqutu.qn’jhnj qvtko
tujr.btih.qktbtulw,qpubqjpfw.bqunqenr.qbtwkfripuj.qkopuqbrfu prbwqetlok
opc.qbnu.sqA.nah.qrpkkhtulqHnubnuvprbwqa..r.bqtuknqko.qbpr u.wwqnfkwtb.
ko.qjprrtpl.qvtubnvw,qpubqwpvqnuhzqpqrpr.,qyhtj .rtul,qcputwotulqwapr 
bpuj.qfaqyrneqko.qbtr.jktnuqnyqOnrw.hh,qpqr.bqlhnvqpubqpqkotuqc.thqny
wen .qbrtctulqpjrnwwqko.qwkprw,qpubqkonflokqkopkqunkotulqenr.qw.rtnfw
kopuqpqo.pkoqytr.qvpwqopaa.utulsqTkqvpwqnuhzqrnfubqko.q.bl.qnyqko.
jneenuqkopkqpuzqbtwkfripuj.qvpwqa.rj.aktih.sqKo.r.qv.r.qophyqpqbnd.u
cthhpwqifrutulqnuqko.qVn tulqinrb.rsqKo.r.qv.r.qhtlokwqtuqphhqko.
onfw.wqnuqko.qjneenuqwtb.qnyqko.qkor..qcthhpl.w,qpubqko.qa.nah.qko.r.
 .akqpvp .qkthhqbpvus

Pqjfrtnfwqjrnvbqhtul.r.bqr.wkh.wwhz,qa.nah.qjnetulqpubqlntulqifkqko.
jrnvbqr.eptutul,qinkoqnuqko.qJoniopeqpubqOnrw.hhqirtbl.wsqNu.qnrqkvn
pbc.ukfrnfwqwnfhw,qtkqvpwqpyk.rvprbwqynfub,qv.ukqtuknqko.qbpr u.wwqpub
jrpvh.bqxftk.qu.prqko.qEprktpuw;qifkqko.zqu.c.rqr.kfru.b,qynrqunvqpub
plptuqpqhtlok-rpz,qht .qko.qi.peqnyqpqvprwota’wqw.prjohtlokqwv.akqko.
jneenu,qpubqko.qO.pk-Rpzqvpwqr.pbzqknqynhhnvsqWpc.qynrqwfjo,qkopkqitl
pr.pqnyqjneenuqvpwqwth.ukqpubqb.wnhpk.,qpubqko.qjoprr.bqinbt.wqhpz
pinfkqnuqtkqphhqutlokqfub.rqko.qwkprw,qpubqphhqko.qu.mkqbpzsqPquntw.qny
opee.rtulqyrneqko.qatkqvpwqo.prbqizqepuzqa.nah.s

Wnqznfqopc.qko.qwkpk.qnyqkotulwqnuqYrtbpzqutloksqTuqko.qj.ukr.,
wktj tulqtuknqko.qw tuqnyqnfrqnhbqahpu.kq.prkoqht .qpqantwnu.bqbprk,
vpwqkotwqjzhtub.rsqIfkqko.qantwnuqvpwqwjprj.hzqvnr tulqz.ksqPrnfubqtk
vpwqpqapkjoqnyqwth.ukqjneenu,qwenfhb.rtulqtuqahpj.w,qpubqvtkoqpqy.v
bpr ,qbtehzqw..uqnig.jkwqhztulqtuqjnuknrk.bqpkktkfb.wqo.r.qpubqko.r.s
O.r.qpubqko.r.qvpwqpqifrutulqifwoqnrqkr..sqI.znubqvpwqpqyrtul.qny
.mjtk.e.uk,qpubqyprko.rqkopuqkopkqyrtul.qko.qtuyhpeepktnuqopbqunkqjr.ak
pwqz.ksqTuqko.qr.wkqnyqko.qvnrhbqko.qwkr.peqnyqhty.qwkthhqyhnv.bqpwqtk
opbqyhnv.bqynrqtee.enrtphqz.prwsqKo.qy.c.rqnyqvprqkopkqvnfhbqar.w.ukhz
jhnlqc.tuqpubqprk.rz,qb.pb.uqu.rc.qpubqb.wkrnzqirptu,qopbqwkthhqkn
b.c.hnas

Phhqutlokqhnulqko.qEprktpuwqv.r.qopee.rtulqpubqwktrrtul,qwh..ah.ww,
tub.ypktlpih.,qpkqvnr qfanuqko.qepjotu.wqko.zqv.r.qep tulqr.pbz,qpub
.c.rqpubqplptuqpqafyyqnyqlr..utwo-votk.qwen .qvotrh.bqfaqknqko.qwkprhtk
w zs

Pinfkq.h.c.uqpqjneapuzqnyqwnhbt.rwqjpe.qkornfloqOnrw.hh,qpubqb.ahnz.b
phnulqko.q.bl.qnyqko.qjneenuqknqynreqpqjnrbnusqHpk.rqpqw.jnubqjneapuz
eprjo.bqkornfloqJoniopeqknqb.ahnzqnuqko.qunrkoqwtb.qnyqko.qjneenus
W.c.rphqnyytj.rwqyrneqko.qTu .repuqiprrpj wqopbqi..uqnuqko.qjneenu
.prht.rqtuqko.qbpz,qpubqnu.,qEpgnrq.b.u,qvpwqr.anrk.bqknqi.qetwwtuls
Ko.qjnhnu.hqnyqko.qr.lte.ukqjpe.qknqko.qJoniopeqirtbl.qpubqvpwqifwz
xf.wktnutulqko.qjrnvbqpkqetbutloksqKo.qethtkprzqpfkonrtkt.wqv.r.
j.rkptuhzqphtc.qknqko.qw.rtnfwu.wwqnyqko.qifwtu.wwsqPinfkq.h.c.u,qko.
u.mkqenrutul’wqapa.rwqv.r.qpih.qknqwpz,qpqwxfpbrnuqnyqofwwprw,qkvn
Epmtew,qpubqpinfkqynfrqofubr.bqe.uqnyqko.qJprbtlpuqr.lte.ukqwkprk.b
yrneqPhb.rwonks

Pqy.vqw.jnubwqpyk.rqetbutlokqko.qjrnvbqtuqko.qJo.rkw.zqrnpb,qVn tul,
wpvqpqwkprqyphhqyrneqo.pc.uqtuknqko.qatu.qvnnbwqknqko.qunrkov.wksqTk
opbqpqlr..utwoqjnhnfr,qpubqjpfw.bqpqwth.ukqirtloku.wwqht .qwfee.r
htlokutulsqKotwqvpwqko.qw.jnubqjzhtub.rs


TMs

KO.qYTLOKTULqI.LTUWs

Wpkfrbpzqhtc.wqtuqezqe.enrzqpwqpqbpzqnyqwfwa.uw.sqTkqvpwqpqbpzqny
hpwwtkfb.qknn,qonkqpubqjhnw.,qvtko,qTqpeqknhb,qpqrpatbhzqyhfjkfpktul
iprne.k.rsqTqopbqwh.akqifkqhtkkh.,qkonfloqezqvty.qopbqwfjj..b.bqtu
wh..atul,qpubqTqrnw.q.prhzsqTqv.ukqtuknqezqlprb.uqi.ynr.qir.p ypwkqpub
wknnbqhtwk.utul,qifkqknvprbwqko.qjneenuqko.r.qvpwqunkotulqwktrrtulqifk
pqhpr s

Ko.qeth epuqjpe.qpwqfwfphsqTqo.prbqko.qrpkkh.qnyqotwqjoprtnkqpubqTqv.uk
rnfubqknqko.qwtb.qlpk.qknqpw qko.qhpk.wkqu.vwsqO.qknhbqe.qkopkqbfrtul
ko.qutlokqko.qEprktpuwqopbqi..uqwfrrnfub.bqizqkrnnaw,qpubqkopkqlfuw
v.r.q.ma.jk.bsqKo.u—pqypethtpr,qr.pwwfrtulqunk.—Tqo.prbqpqkrptuqrfuutul
knvprbwqVn tuls

“Ko.zqpr.u’kqknqi.q thh.b,”qwptbqko.qeth epu,q“tyqkopkqjpuqanwwtihzqi.
pcntb.bs”

Tqwpvqezqu.tloinfrqlprb.utul,qjopkk.bqvtkoqoteqynrqpqkte.,qpubqko.u
wkrnhh.bqtuqknqir.p ypwksqTkqvpwqpqenwkqfu.mj.aktnuphqenrutulsqEz
u.tloinfrqvpwqnyqnatutnuqkopkqko.qkrnnawqvnfhbqi.qpih.qknqjpakfr.qnrqkn
b.wkrnzqko.qEprktpuwqbfrtulqko.qbpzs

“Tk’wqpqatkzqko.zqep .qko.ew.hc.wqwnqfupaarnpjopih.,”qo.qwptbsq“Tk
vnfhbqi.qjfrtnfwqknq unvqonvqko.zqhtc.qnuqpunko.rqahpu.k;qv.qetlok
h.pruqpqkotulqnrqkvns”

O.qjpe.qfaqknqko.qy.uj.qpubq.mk.ub.bqpqopubyfhqnyqwkrpvi.rrt.w,qynrqotw
lprb.utulqvpwqpwql.u.rnfwqpwqtkqvpwq.ukofwtpwktjsqPkqko.qwpe.qkte.qo.
knhbqe.qnyqko.qifrutulqnyqko.qatu.qvnnbwqpinfkqko.qIzyh..kqLnhyqHtu ws

“Ko.zqwpz,”qwptbqo.,q“kopkqko.r.’wqpunko.rqnyqkonw.qih.ww.bqkotulw
yphh.uqko.r.—ufei.rqkvnsqIfkqnu.’wq.unflo,qwfr.hzsqKotwqhnk’hhqjnwkqko.
tuwfrpuj.qa.nah.qpqar.kkzqa.uuzqi.ynr.q.c.rzkotul’wqw.kkh.bs”qO.
hpflo.bqvtkoqpuqptrqnyqko.qlr.pk.wkqlnnbqofenfrqpwqo.qwptbqkotwsqKo.
vnnbw,qo.qwptb,qv.r.qwkthhqifrutul,qpubqantuk.bqnfkqpqopd.qnyqwen .qkn
e.sq“Ko.zqvthhqi.qonkqfub.rqynnkqynrqbpzw,qnuqpjjnfukqnyqko.qkotj qwnth
nyqatu.qu..bh.wqpubqkfry,”qo.qwptb,qpubqko.uqlr.vqw.rtnfwqnc.rq“annr
Nlthczs”

Pyk.rqir.p ypwk,qtuwk.pbqnyqvnr tul,qTqb.jtb.bqknqvph qbnvuqknvprbwqko.
jneenusqFub.rqko.qrpthvpzqirtbl.qTqynfubqpqlrnfaqnyqwnhbt.rw—wpaa.rw,qT
kotu ,qe.uqtuqwephhqrnfubqjpaw,qbtrkzqr.bqgpj .kwqfuifkknu.b,qpub
wonvtulqko.trqihf.qwotrkw,qbpr qkrnfw.rw,qpubqinnkwqjnetulqknqko.qjphys
Ko.zqknhbqe.qunqnu.qvpwqphhnv.bqnc.rqko.qjpuph,qpub,qhnn tulqphnulqko.
rnpbqknvprbwqko.qirtbl.,qTqwpvqnu.qnyqko.qJprbtlpuqe.uqwkpubtul
w.uktu.hqko.r.sqTqkph .bqvtkoqko.w.qwnhbt.rwqynrqpqkte.;qTqknhbqko.eqny
ezqwtlokqnyqko.qEprktpuwqnuqko.qar.ctnfwq.c.utulsqUnu.qnyqko.eqopbqw..u
ko.qEprktpuw,qpubqko.zqopbqifkqko.qcplf.wkqtb.pwqnyqko.e,qwnqkopkqko.z
aht.bqe.qvtkoqxf.wktnuwsqKo.zqwptbqkopkqko.zqbtbqunkq unvqvonqopb
pfkonrtw.bqko.qenc.e.ukwqnyqko.qkrnnaw;qko.trqtb.pqvpwqkopkqpqbtwafk.
opbqprtw.uqpkqko.qOnrw.qLfprbwsqKo.qnrbtuprzqwpaa.rqtwqpqlr.pkqb.ph
i.kk.rq.bfjpk.bqkopuqko.qjneenuqwnhbt.r,qpubqko.zqbtwjfww.bqko.
a.jfhtprqjnubtktnuwqnyqko.qanwwtih.qytlokqvtkoqwne.qpjfk.u.wwsqT
b.wjrti.bqko.qO.pk-Rpzqknqko.e,qpubqko.zqi.lpuqknqprlf.qpenul
ko.ew.hc.ws

“Jrpvhqfaqfub.rqjnc.rqpubqrfwoq’.e,qwpzqT,”qwptbqnu.s

“L.kqpok!”qwptbqpunko.rsq“Vopk’wqjnc.rqplptuwkqkotwq’.r.q’.pk?qWktj w
knqjnn qz.r!qVopkqv.qlnkqknqbnqtwqknqlnqpwqu.prqpwqko.qlrnfub’hhqh.k
fw,qpubqko.uqbrtc.qpqkr.ujos”

“Ihnvqz.rqkr.ujo.w!qZnfqphvpzwqvpukqkr.ujo.w;qznfqnflokqknqop’qi..u
inruqpqrpiitkqWutaazs”

“Ptu’kqko.zqlnkqpuzqu.j w,qko.u?”qwptbqpqkotrb,qpirfakhz—pqhtkkh.,
jnuk.eahpktc.,qbpr qepu,qwen tulqpqata.s

Tqr.a.pk.bqezqb.wjrtaktnus

“Njknafw.w,”qwptbqo.,q“kopk’wqvopkqTqjphhwq’.esqKph qpinfkqytwo.rwqny
e.u—ytlok.rwqnyqytwoqtkqtwqkotwqkte.!”

“Tkqptu’kqunqefrb.rq thhtulqi.pwkwqht .qkopk,”qwptbqko.qytrwkqwa.p .rs

“Vozqunkqwo.hhqko.qbpru.bqkotulwqwkrtk.qnyyqpubqytutwoq’.e?”qwptbqko.
htkkh.qbpr qepusq“Znfqjpruqk.hhqvopkqko.zqetlokqbns”

“Vo.r.’wqznfrqwo.hhw?”qwptbqko.qytrwkqwa.p .rsq“Ko.r.qptu’kqunqkte.sqBn
tkqtuqpqrfwo,qkopk’wqezqkta,qpubqbnqtkqpkqnuj.s”

Wnqko.zqbtwjfww.bqtksqPyk.rqpqvoth.qTqh.ykqko.e,qpubqv.ukqnuqknqko.
rpthvpzqwkpktnuqknql.kqpwqepuzqenrutulqapa.rwqpwqTqjnfhbs

IfkqTqvthhqunkqv.przqko.qr.pb.rqvtkoqpqb.wjrtaktnuqnyqkopkqhnulqenrutul
pubqnyqko.qhnul.rqpyk.runnusqTqbtbqunkqwfjj..bqtuql.kktulqpqlhteaw.qny
ko.qjneenu,qynrq.c.uqOnrw.hhqpubqJoniopeqjofrjoqknv.rwqv.r.qtuqko.
opubwqnyqko.qethtkprzqpfkonrtkt.wsqKo.qwnhbt.rwqTqpbbr.ww.bqbtbu’kq unv
puzkotul;qko.qnyytj.rwqv.r.qezwk.rtnfwqpwqv.hhqpwqifwzsqTqynfubqa.nah.
tuqko.qknvuqxftk.qw.jfr.qplptuqtuqko.qar.w.uj.qnyqko.qethtkprz,qpubqT
o.prbqynrqko.qytrwkqkte.qyrneqEprwophh,qko.qknipjjnutwk,qkopkqotwqwnu
vpwqpenulqko.qb.pbqnuqko.qjneenusqKo.qwnhbt.rwqopbqepb.qko.qa.nah.qnu
ko.qnfkw trkwqnyqOnrw.hhqhnj qfaqpubqh.pc.qko.trqonfw.ws

Tqlnkqipj qknqhfujoqpinfkqkvn,qc.rzqktr.bqynr,qpwqTqopc.qwptb,qko.qbpz
vpwq.mkr.e.hzqonkqpubqbfhh;qpubqtuqnrb.rqknqr.yr.woqezw.hyqTqknn qp
jnhbqipkoqtuqko.qpyk.runnusqPinfkqophyqapwkqynfrqTqv.ukqfaqknqko.
rpthvpzqwkpktnuqknql.kqpuq.c.utulqapa.r,qynrqko.qenrutulqapa.rwqopb
jnukptu.bqnuhzqpqc.rzqtupjjfrpk.qb.wjrtaktnuqnyqko.q thhtulqnyqWk.uk,
O.ub.rwnu,qNlthcz,qpubqko.qnko.rwsqIfkqko.r.qvpwqhtkkh.qTqbtbu’kq unvs
Ko.qEprktpuwqbtbqunkqwonvqpuqtujoqnyqko.ew.hc.wsqKo.zqw..e.bqifwzqtu
ko.trqatk,qpubqko.r.qvpwqpqwnfubqnyqopee.rtulqpubqpuqphenwkqjnuktufnfw
wkr.pe.rqnyqwen .sqPaapr.ukhzqko.zqv.r.qifwzql.kktulqr.pbzqynrqp
wkrfllh.sq“Yr.woqpkk.eakwqopc.qi..uqepb.qknqwtluph,qifkqvtkonfk
wfjj.ww,”qvpwqko.qwk.r.nkza.bqynrefhpqnyqko.qapa.rwsqPqwpaa.rqknhbqe.
tkqvpwqbnu.qizqpqepuqtuqpqbtkjoqvtkoqpqyhplqnuqpqhnulqanh.sqKo.
Eprktpuwqknn qpwqefjoqunktj.qnyqwfjoqpbcpuj.wqpwqv.qwonfhbqnyqko.
hnvtulqnyqpqjnvs

Tqefwkqjnuy.wwqko.qwtlokqnyqphhqkotwqprepe.uk,qphhqkotwqar.aprpktnu,
lr.pkhzq.mjtk.bqe.sqEzqtepltupktnuqi.jpe.qi.hhtl.r.uk,qpubqb.y.pk.bqko.
tucpb.rwqtuqpqbnd.uqwkrt tulqvpzw;qwne.kotulqnyqezqwjonnhinzqbr.pewqny
ipkkh.qpubqo.rntweqjpe.qipj sqTkqoprbhzqw..e.bqpqyptrqytlokqknqe.qpk
kopkqkte.sqKo.zqw..e.bqc.rzqo.hah.wwqtuqkopkqatkqnyqko.trws

Pinfkqkor..qn’jhnj qko.r.qi.lpuqko.qkofbqnyqpqlfuqpkqe.pwfr.bqtuk.rcphw
yrneqJo.rkw.zqnrqPbbh.wknu.sqTqh.pru.bqkopkqko.qwenfhb.rtulqatu.qvnnb
tuknqvotjoqko.qw.jnubqjzhtub.rqopbqyphh.uqvpwqi.tulqwo.hh.b,qtuqko.
ona.qnyqb.wkrnztulqkopkqnig.jkqi.ynr.qtkqna.u.bsqTkqvpwqnuhzqpinfk
ytc.,qonv.c.r,qkopkqpqyt.hbqlfuqr.pjo.bqJoniopeqynrqfw.qplptuwkqko.
ytrwkqinbzqnyqEprktpuws

Pinfkqwtmqtuqko.q.c.utul,qpwqTqwpkqpkqk.pqvtkoqezqvty.qtuqko.
wfee.ronfw.qkph tulqctlnrnfwhzqpinfkqko.qipkkh.qkopkqvpwqhnv.rtulqfanu
fw,qTqo.prbqpqefyyh.bqb.knupktnuqyrneqko.qjneenu,qpubqtee.btpk.hzqpyk.r
pqlfwkqnyqytrtulsqJhnw.qnuqko.qo..hwqnyqkopkqjpe.qpqctnh.ukqrpkkhtul
jrpwo,qxftk.qjhnw.qknqfw,qkopkqwonn qko.qlrnfub;qpub,qwkprktulqnfkqfanu
ko.qhpvu,qTqwpvqko.qknawqnyqko.qkr..wqpinfkqko.qNrt.ukphqJnhh.l.qifrwk
tuknqwen zqr.bqyhpe.,qpubqko.qknv.rqnyqko.qhtkkh.qjofrjoqi.wtb.qtk
whtb.qbnvuqtuknqrftusqKo.qatuupjh.qnyqko.qenwxf.qopbqcputwo.b,qpubqko.
rnnyqhtu.qnyqko.qjnhh.l.qtkw.hyqhnn .bqpwqtyqpqofubr.b-knuqlfuqopbqi..u
pkqvnr qfanuqtksqNu.qnyqnfrqjoteu.zwqjrpj .bqpwqtyqpqwonkqopbqotkqtk,
yh.v,qpubqpqat.j.qnyqtkqjpe.qjhpkk.rtulqbnvuqko.qkth.wqpubqepb.qpqo.pa
nyqirn .uqr.bqyrple.ukwqfanuqko.qyhnv.rqi.bqizqezqwkfbzqvtubnvs

Tqpubqezqvty.qwknnbqpepd.bsqKo.uqTqr.phtw.bqkopkqko.qjr.wkqnyqEpzifrz
Othhqefwkqi.qvtkotuqrpul.qnyqko.qEprktpuw’qO.pk-Rpzqunvqkopkqko.
jnhh.l.qvpwqjh.pr.bqnfkqnyqko.qvpzs

PkqkopkqTqlrtaa.bqezqvty.’wqpre,qpubqvtkonfkqj.r.enuzqrpuqo.rqnfkqtukn
ko.qrnpbsqKo.uqTqy.kjo.bqnfkqko.qw.rcpuk,qk.hhtulqo.rqTqvnfhbqln
fawkptrwqezw.hyqynrqko.qinmqwo.qvpwqjhpenfrtulqynrs

“V.qjpu’kqanwwtihzqwkpzqo.r.,”qTqwptb;qpubqpwqTqwan .qko.qytrtul
r.na.u.bqynrqpqene.ukqfanuqko.qjneenus

“Ifkqvo.r.qpr.qv.qknqln?”qwptbqezqvty.qtuqk.rrnrs

Tqkonflokqa.rah.m.bsqKo.uqTqr.e.ei.r.bqo.rqjnfwtuwqpkqH.pko.ro.pbs

“H.pko.ro.pb!”qTqwonfk.bqpinc.qko.qwfbb.uquntw.s

Wo.qhnn .bqpvpzqyrneqe.qbnvuothhsqKo.qa.nah.qv.r.qjnetulqnfkqnyqko.tr
onfw.w,qpwknutwo.bs

“Onvqpr.qv.qknql.kqknqH.pko.ro.pb?”qwo.qwptbs

Bnvuqko.qothhqTqwpvqpqi.czqnyqofwwprwqrtb.qfub.rqko.qrpthvpzqirtbl.;
kor..qlphhna.bqkornfloqko.qna.uqlpk.wqnyqko.qNrt.ukphqJnhh.l.;qkvn
nko.rwqbtwenfuk.b,qpubqi.lpuqrfuutulqyrneqonfw.qknqonfw.sqKo.qwfu,
wotutulqkornfloqko.qwen .qkopkqbrnc.qfaqyrneqko.qknawqnyqko.qkr..w,
w..e.bqihnnbqr.b,qpubqkor.vqpuqfuypethtprqhfrtbqhtlokqfanuq.c.rzkotuls

“Wknaqo.r.,”qwptbqT;q“znfqpr.qwpy.qo.r.”;qpubqTqwkprk.bqnyyqpkqnuj.qynr
ko.qWankk.bqBnl,qynrqTq u.vqko.qhpubhnrbqopbqpqonrw.qpubqbnlqjprksqT
rpu,qynrqTqa.rj.tc.bqkopkqtuqpqene.ukq.c.rznu.qfanuqkotwqwtb.qnyqko.
othhqvnfhbqi.qenctulsqTqynfubqoteqtuqotwqipr,qxftk.qfupvpr.qnyqvopkqvpw
lntulqnuqi.otubqotwqonfw.sqPqepuqwknnbqvtkoqotwqipj qknqe.,qkph tulqkn
otes

“Tqefwkqopc.qpqanfub,”qwptbqko.qhpubhnrb,q“pubqT’c.qunqnu.qknqbrtc.
tks”

“T’hhqltc.qznfqkvn,”qwptbqT,qnc.rqko.qwkrpul.r’wqwonfhb.rs

“Vopkqynr?”

“PubqT’hhqirtulqtkqipj qizqetbutlok,”qTqwptbs

“Hnrb!”qwptbqko.qhpubhnrb;q“vopk’wqko.qofrrz?qT’eqw.hhtulqezqitkqnyqp
atlsqKvnqanfubw,qpubqznfqirtulqtkqipj ?qVopk’wqlntulqnuqunv?”

Tq.mahptu.bqopwkthzqkopkqTqopbqknqh.pc.qezqone.,qpubqwnqw.jfr.bqko.qbnl
jprksqPkqko.qkte.qtkqbtbqunkqw..eqknqe.qu.prhzqwnqfrl.ukqkopkqko.
hpubhnrbqwonfhbqh.pc.qotwsqTqknn qjpr.qknqopc.qko.qjprkqko.r.qpubqko.u,
brnc.qtkqnyyqbnvuqko.qrnpb,qpub,qh.pctulqtkqtuqjoprl.qnyqezqvty.qpub
w.rcpuk,qrfwo.bqtuknqezqonfw.qpubqapj .bqpqy.vqcphfpih.w,qwfjoqahpk.qpw
v.qopb,qpubqwnqynrkosqKo.qi..joqkr..wqi.hnvqko.qonfw.qv.r.qifrutul
voth.qTqbtbqkotw,qpubqko.qaphtulwqfaqko.qrnpbqlhnv.bqr.bsqVoth.qTqvpw
njjfat.bqtuqkotwqvpz,qnu.qnyqko.qbtwenfuk.bqofwwprwqjpe.qrfuutulqfasqO.
vpwqlntulqyrneqonfw.qknqonfw.,qvprutulqa.nah.qknqh.pc.sqO.qvpwqlntulqnu
pwqTqjpe.qnfkqnyqezqyrnukqbnnr,qhflltulqezqkr.pwfr.w,qbnu.qfaqtuqp
kpih.jhnkosqTqwonfk.bqpyk.rqote:

“Vopkqu.vw?”

O.qkfru.b,qwkpr.b,qipvh.bqwne.kotulqpinfkq“jrpvhtulqnfkqtuqpqkotulqht .
pqbtwoqjnc.r,”qpubqrpuqnuqknqko.qlpk.qnyqko.qonfw.qpkqko.qjr.wksqP
wfbb.uqvotrhqnyqihpj qwen .qbrtctulqpjrnwwqko.qrnpbqotbqoteqynrqp
ene.uksqTqrpuqknqezqu.tloinfr’wqbnnrqpubqrpaa.bqknqwpktwyzqezw.hyqny
vopkqTqphr.pbzq u.v,qkopkqotwqvty.qopbqlnu.qknqHnubnuqvtkoqoteqpubqopb
hnj .bqfaqko.trqonfw.sqTqv.ukqtuqplptu,qpjjnrbtulqknqezqarnetw.,qknql.k
ezqw.rcpuk’wqinm,qhfll.bqtkqnfk,qjhpaa.bqtkqi.wtb.qo.rqnuqko.qkpthqny
ko.qbnlqjprk,qpubqko.uqjpflokqko.qr.tuwqpubqgfea.bqfaqtuknqko.qbrtc.r’w
w.pkqi.wtb.qezqvty.sqTuqpunko.rqene.ukqv.qv.r.qjh.prqnyqko.qwen .qpub
untw.,qpubqwapu tulqbnvuqko.qnaanwtk.qwhna.qnyqEpzifrzqOthhqknvprbwqNhb
Vn tuls

Tuqyrnukqvpwqpqxft.kqwfuuzqhpubwjpa.,qpqvo.pkqyt.hbqpo.pbqnuq.tko.r
wtb.qnyqko.qrnpb,qpubqko.qEpzifrzqTuuqvtkoqtkwqwvtultulqwtlusqTqwpvqko.
bnjknr’wqjprkqpo.pbqnyqe.sqPkqko.qinkkneqnyqko.qothhqTqkfru.bqezqo.pb
knqhnn qpkqko.qothhwtb.qTqvpwqh.pctulsqKotj qwkr.pe.rwqnyqihpj qwen .
wonkqvtkoqkor.pbwqnyqr.bqytr.qv.r.qbrtctulqfaqtuknqko.qwkthhqptr,qpub
kornvtulqbpr qwopbnvwqfanuqko.qlr..uqkr..knawq.pwkvprbsqKo.qwen .
phr.pbzq.mk.ub.bqyprqpvpzqknqko.q.pwkqpubqv.wk—knqko.qIzyh..kqatu.
vnnbwq.pwkvprb,qpubqknqVn tulqnuqko.qv.wksqKo.qrnpbqvpwqbnkk.bqvtko
a.nah.qrfuutulqknvprbwqfwsqPubqc.rzqyptukqunv,qifkqc.rzqbtwktujk
kornfloqko.qonk,qxft.kqptr,qnu.qo.prbqko.qvotrrqnyqpqepjotu.-lfuqkopk
vpwqar.w.ukhzqwkthh.b,qpubqpuqtuk.retkk.ukqjrpj tulqnyqrtyh.ws
Paapr.ukhzqko.qEprktpuwqv.r.qw.kktulqytr.qknq.c.rzkotulqvtkotuqrpul.qny
ko.trqO.pk-Rpzs

Tqpequnkqpuq.ma.rkqbrtc.r,qpubqTqopbqtee.btpk.hzqknqkfruqezqpkk.uktnu
knqko.qonrw.sqVo.uqTqhnn .bqipj qplptuqko.qw.jnubqothhqopbqotbb.uqko.
ihpj qwen .sqTqwhpwo.bqko.qonrw.qvtkoqko.qvota,qpubqlpc.qoteqpqhnnw.
r.tuqfukthqVn tulqpubqW.ubqhpzqi.kv..uqfwqpubqkopkqxftc.rtulqkfefhksqT
nc.rknn qpubqapww.bqko.qbnjknrqi.kv..uqVn tulqpubqW.ubs


Ms

TUqKO.qWKNREs

H.pko.ro.pbqtwqpinfkqkv.hc.qeth.wqyrneqEpzifrzqOthhsqKo.qwj.ukqnyqopz
vpwqtuqko.qptrqkornfloqko.qhfwoqe.pbnvwqi.znubqAzrynrb,qpubqko.qo.bl.w
nuq.tko.rqwtb.qv.r.qwv..kqpubqlpzqvtkoqefhktkfb.wqnyqbnl-rnw.wsqKo.
o.pczqytrtulqkopkqopbqirn .uqnfkqvoth.qv.qv.r.qbrtctulqbnvuqEpzifrz
Othhqj.pw.bqpwqpirfakhzqpwqtkqi.lpu,qh.pctulqko.q.c.utulqc.rzqa.pj.yfh
pubqwkthhsqV.qlnkqknqH.pko.ro.pbqvtkonfkqetwpbc.ukfr.qpinfkqutu.
n’jhnj ,qpubqko.qonrw.qopbqpuqonfr’wqr.wkqvoth.qTqknn qwfaa.rqvtkoqez
jnfwtuwqpubqjnee.ub.bqezqvty.qknqko.trqjpr.s

Ezqvty.qvpwqjfrtnfwhzqwth.ukqkornflonfkqko.qbrtc.,qpubqw..e.bqnaar.ww.b
vtkoqynr.inbtulwqnyq.cthsqTqkph .bqknqo.rqr.pwwfrtulhz,qantuktulqnfk
kopkqko.qEprktpuwqv.r.qkt.bqknqko.qatkqizqwo..rqo.pctu.ww,qpubqpkqko.
fkenwkqjnfhbqifkqjrpvhqpqhtkkh.qnfkqnyqtk;qifkqwo.qpuwv.r.bqnuhzqtu
enunwzhhpih.wsqOpbqtkqunkqi..uqynrqezqarnetw.qknqko.qtuu ..a.r,qwo.
vnfhb,qTqkotu ,qopc.qfrl.bqe.qknqwkpzqtuqH.pko.ro.pbqkopkqutloksqVnfhb
kopkqTqopb!qO.rqypj.,qTqr.e.ei.r,qvpwqc.rzqvotk.qpwqv.qaprk.bs

Ynrqezqnvuqaprk,qTqopbqi..uqy.c.rtwohzq.mjtk.bqphhqbpzsqWne.kotulqc.rz
ht .qko.qvprqy.c.rqkopkqnjjpwtnuphhzqrfuwqkornfloqpqjtcthtw.bqjneefutkz
opbqlnkqtuknqezqihnnb,qpubqtuqezqo.prkqTqvpwqunkqwnqc.rzqwnrrzqkopkqT
opbqknqr.kfruqknqEpzifrzqkopkqutloksqTqvpwq.c.uqpyrptbqkopkqkopkqhpwk
yfwthhpb.qTqopbqo.prbqetlokqe.puqko.q.mk.retupktnuqnyqnfrqtucpb.rwqyrne
EprwsqTqjpuqi.wkq.mar.wwqezqwkpk.qnyqetubqizqwpztulqkopkqTqvpuk.bqknqi.
tuqpkqko.qb.pkos

Tkqvpwqu.prhzq.h.c.uqvo.uqTqwkprk.bqknqr.kfrusqKo.qutlokqvpw
fu.ma.jk.bhzqbpr ;qknqe.,qvph tulqnfkqnyqko.qhtlok.bqapwwpl.qnyqez
jnfwtuw’qonfw.,qtkqw..e.bqtub..bqihpj ,qpubqtkqvpwqpwqonkqpubqjhnw.qpw
ko.qbpzsqNc.ro.pbqko.qjhnfbwqv.r.qbrtctulqypwk,qphi.tkqunkqpqir.pko
wktrr.bqko.qworfiwqpinfkqfwsqEzqjnfwtuw’qepuqhtkqinkoqhpeawsqOpaathz,qT
 u.vqko.qrnpbqtuktepk.hzsqEzqvty.qwknnbqtuqko.qhtlokqnyqko.qbnnrvpz,
pubqvpkjo.bqe.qfukthqTqgfea.bqfaqtuknqko.qbnlqjprksqKo.uqpirfakhzqwo.
kfru.bqpubqv.ukqtu,qh.pctulqezqjnfwtuwqwtb.qizqwtb.qvtwotulqe.qlnnb
opas

Tqvpwqpqhtkkh.qb.ar.ww.bqpkqytrwkqvtkoqko.qjnukpltnuqnyqezqvty.’w
y.prw,qifkqc.rzqwnnuqezqkonflokwqr.c.rk.bqknqko.qEprktpuwsqPkqkopkqkte.
Tqvpwqpiwnhfk.hzqtuqko.qbpr qpwqknqko.qjnfrw.qnyqko.q.c.utul’w
ytloktulsqTqbtbqunkq unvq.c.uqko.qjtrjfewkpuj.wqkopkqopbqar.jtatkpk.b
ko.qjnuyhtjksqPwqTqjpe.qkornfloqNj opeq(ynrqkopkqvpwqko.qvpzqT
r.kfru.b,qpubqunkqkornfloqW.ubqpubqNhbqVn tul)qTqwpvqphnulqko.qv.wk.ru
onrtdnuqpqihnnb-r.bqlhnv,qvotjoqpwqTqbr.vqu.pr.r,qjr.akqwhnvhzqfaqko.
w zsqKo.qbrtctulqjhnfbwqnyqko.qlpko.rtulqkofub.rwknreqetulh.bqko.r.
vtkoqepww.wqnyqihpj qpubqr.bqwen .s

Rtah.zqWkr..kqvpwqb.w.rk.b,qpubq.mj.akqynrqpqhtlok.bqvtubnvqnrqwnqko.
cthhpl.qwonv.bqunkqpqwtluqnyqhty.;qifkqTquprrnvhzq.wjpa.bqpuqpjjtb.uk
pkqko.qjnru.rqnyqko.qrnpbqknqAzrynrb,qvo.r.qpq unkqnyqa.nah.qwknnbqvtko
ko.trqipj wqknqe.sqKo.zqwptbqunkotulqknqe.qpwqTqapww.bsqTqbnqunkq unv
vopkqko.zq u.vqnyqko.qkotulwqopaa.utulqi.znubqko.qothh,qunrqbnqTq unv
tyqko.qwth.ukqonfw.wqTqapww.bqnuqezqvpzqv.r.qwh..atulqw.jfr.hz,qnr
b.w.rk.bqpubq.eakz,qnrqoprpww.bqpubqvpkjotulqplptuwkqko.qk.rrnrqnyqko.
utloks

YrneqRtah.zqfukthqTqjpe.qkornfloqAzrynrbqTqvpwqtuqko.qcphh.zqnyqko.
V.z,qpubqko.qr.bqlhpr.qvpwqotbb.uqyrneqe.sqPwqTqpwj.ub.bqko.qhtkkh.
othhqi.znubqAzrynrbqJofrjoqko.qlhpr.qjpe.qtuknqct.vqplptu,qpubqko.
kr..wqpinfkqe.qwotc.r.bqvtkoqko.qytrwkqtuktepktnuqnyqko.qwknreqkopkqvpw
fanuqe.sqKo.uqTqo.prbqetbutlokqa.phtulqnfkqyrneqAzrynrbqJofrjoqi.otub
e.,qpubqko.uqjpe.qko.qwthonf.kk.qnyqEpzifrzqOthh,qvtkoqtkwqkr..-knaw
pubqrnnywqihpj qpubqwopraqplptuwkqko.qr.bs

.c.uqpwqTqi.o.hbqkotwqpqhfrtbqlr..uqlhpr.qhtkqko.qrnpbqpinfkqe.qpub
wonv.bqko.qbtwkpukqvnnbwqknvprbwqPbbh.wknu.sqTqy.hkqpqkflqpkqko.qr.tuws
Tqwpvqkopkqko.qbrtctulqjhnfbwqopbqi..uqat.rj.bqpwqtkqv.r.qizqpqkor.pb
nyqlr..uqytr.,qwfbb.uhzqhtloktulqko.trqjnuyfwtnuqpubqyphhtulqtuknqko.
yt.hbqknqezqh.yksqTkqvpwqko.qkotrbqyphhtulqwkpr!

Jhnw.qnuqtkwqpaaprtktnu,qpubqihtubtulhzqctnh.kqizqjnukrpwk,qbpuj.bqnfk
ko.qytrwkqhtlokutulqnyqko.qlpko.rtulqwknre,qpubqko.qkofub.rqifrwkqht .
pqrnj .kqnc.ro.pbsqKo.qonrw.qknn qko.qitkqi.kv..uqotwqk..koqpubqinhk.bs

Pqenb.rpk.qtujhtu.qrfuwqknvprbwqko.qynnkqnyqEpzifrzqOthh,qpubqbnvuqkotw
v.qjhpkk.r.bsqNuj.qko.qhtlokutulqopbqi.lfu,qtkqv.ukqnuqtuqpwqrpatbqp
wfjj.wwtnuqnyqyhpwo.wqpwqTqopc.q.c.rqw..usqKo.qkofub.rjhpaw,qkr.pbtul
nu.qnuqko.qo..hwqnyqpunko.rqpubqvtkoqpqwkrpul.qjrpj htulqpjjneapute.uk,
wnfub.bqenr.qht .qko.qvnr tulqnyqpqltlpuktjq.h.jkrtjqepjotu.qkopuqko.
fwfphqb.knupktulqr.c.ri.rpktnuwsqKo.qyhtj .rtulqhtlokqvpwqihtubtulqpub
jnuyfwtul,qpubqpqkotuqopthqwenk.qlfwkthzqpkqezqypj.qpwqTqbrnc.qbnvuqko.
whna.s

PkqytrwkqTqr.lprb.bqhtkkh.qifkqko.qrnpbqi.ynr.qe.,qpubqko.uqpirfakhzqez
pkk.uktnuqvpwqprr.wk.bqizqwne.kotulqkopkqvpwqenctulqrpatbhzqbnvuqko.
naanwtk.qwhna.qnyqEpzifrzqOthhsqPkqytrwkqTqknn qtkqynrqko.qv.kqrnnyqny
pqonfw.,qifkqnu.qyhpwoqynhhnvtulqpunko.rqwonv.bqtkqknqi.qtuqwvtyk
rnhhtulqenc.e.uksqTkqvpwqpuq.hfwtc.qctwtnu—pqene.ukqnyqi.vthb.rtul
bpr u.ww,qpubqko.u,qtuqpqyhpwoqht .qbpzhtlok,qko.qr.bqepww.wqnyqko.
Nraopupl.qu.prqko.qjr.wkqnyqko.qothh,qko.qlr..uqknawqnyqko.qatu.qkr..w,
pubqkotwqarnih.epktjphqnig.jkqjpe.qnfkqjh.prqpubqwopraqpubqirtloks

PubqkotwqKotulqTqwpv!qOnvqjpuqTqb.wjrti.qtk?qPqenuwkrnfwqkrtanb,qotlo.r
kopuqepuzqonfw.w,qwkrtbtulqnc.rqko.qznfulqatu.qkr..w,qpubqwepwotulqko.e
pwtb.qtuqtkwqjpr..r;qpqvph tulq.ultu.qnyqlhtkk.rtulqe.kph,qwkrtbtulqunv
pjrnwwqko.qo.pko.r;qprktjfhpk.qrna.wqnyqwk..hqbpulhtulqyrneqtk,qpubqko.
jhpkk.rtulqkfefhkqnyqtkwqapwwpl.qetulhtulqvtkoqko.qrtnkqnyqko.qkofub.rs
Pqyhpwo,qpubqtkqjpe.qnfkqctctbhz,qo..htulqnc.rqnu.qvpzqvtkoqkvnqy..kqtu
ko.qptr,qknqcputwoqpubqr.paa.prqphenwkqtuwkpukhzqpwqtkqw..e.b,qvtkoqko.
u.mkqyhpwo,qpqofubr.bqzprbwqu.pr.rsqJpuqznfqtepltu.qpqeth tulqwknnh
kthk.bqpubqinvh.bqctnh.ukhzqphnulqko.qlrnfub?qKopkqvpwqko.qtear.wwtnu
konw.qtuwkpukqyhpwo.wqlpc.sqIfkqtuwk.pbqnyqpqeth tulqwknnhqtepltu.qtkqp
lr.pkqinbzqnyqepjotu.rzqnuqpqkrtanbqwkpubs

Ko.uqwfbb.uhzqko.qkr..wqtuqko.qatu.qvnnbqpo.pbqnyqe.qv.r.qaprk.b,qpw
irtkkh.qr..bwqpr.qaprk.bqizqpqepuqkorfwktulqkornfloqko.e;qko.zqv.r.
wupaa.bqnyyqpubqbrtc.uqo.pbhnul,qpubqpqw.jnubqofl.qkrtanbqpaa.pr.b,
rfwotul,qpwqtkqw..e.b,qo.pbhnulqknvprbwqe.sqPubqTqvpwqlphhnatulqoprbqkn
e..kqtk!qPkqko.qwtlokqnyqko.qw.jnubqenuwk.rqezqu.rc.qv.ukqphknl.ko.rs
Unkqwknaatulqknqhnn qplptu,qTqvr.ujo.bqko.qonrw.’wqo.pbqoprbqrnfubqkn
ko.qrtlokqpubqtuqpunko.rqene.ukqko.qbnlqjprkqopbqo..h.bqnc.rqfanuqko.
onrw.;qko.qwopykwqwepwo.bquntwthz,qpubqTqvpwqyhfulqwtb.vpzwqpubqy.hh
o.pcthzqtuknqpqwophhnvqannhqnyqvpk.rs

Tqjrpvh.bqnfkqphenwkqtee.btpk.hz,qpubqjrnfjo.b,qezqy..kqwkthhqtuqko.
vpk.r,qfub.rqpqjhfeaqnyqyfrd.sqKo.qonrw.qhpzqenktnuh.wwq(otwqu.j qvpw
irn .u,qannrqirfk.!)qpubqizqko.qhtlokutulqyhpwo.wqTqwpvqko.qihpj qifh 
nyqko.qnc.rkfru.bqbnlqjprkqpubqko.qwthonf.kk.qnyqko.qvo..hqwkthh
watuutulqwhnvhzsqTuqpunko.rqene.ukqko.qjnhnwwphqe.joputweqv.ukqwkrtbtul
izqe.,qpubqapww.bqfaothhqknvprbwqAzrynrbs

W..uqu.pr.r,qko.qKotulqvpwqtujr.btihzqwkrpul.,qynrqtkqvpwqunqe.r.
tuw.uwpk.qepjotu.qbrtctulqnuqtkwqvpzsqEpjotu.qtkqvpw,qvtkoqpqrtultul
e.kphhtjqapj.,qpubqhnul,qyh.mtih.,qlhtkk.rtulqk.ukpjh.wq(nu.qnyqvotjo
lrtaa.bqpqznfulqatu.qkr..)qwvtultulqpubqrpkkhtulqpinfkqtkwqwkrpul.
inbzsqTkqatj .bqtkwqrnpbqpwqtkqv.ukqwkrtbtulqphnul,qpubqko.qirpd.uqonnb
kopkqwfrenfuk.bqtkqenc.bqknqpubqyrnqvtkoqko.qtu.ctkpih.qwfll.wktnuqnyqp
o.pbqhnn tulqpinfksqI.otubqko.qeptuqinbzqvpwqpqofl.qepwwqnyqvotk.qe.kph
ht .qpqltlpuktjqytwo.repu’wqipw .k,qpubqafyywqnyqlr..uqwen .qwxftrk.b
nfkqyrneqko.qgntukwqnyqko.qhteiwqpwqko.qenuwk.rqwv.akqizqe.sqPubqtuqpu
tuwkpukqtkqvpwqlnu.s

WnqefjoqTqwpvqko.u,qphhqcplf.hzqynrqko.qyhtj .rtulqnyqko.qhtlokutul,qtu
ihtubtulqotlohtlokwqpubqb.uw.qihpj qwopbnvws

Pwqtkqapww.bqtkqw.kqfaqpuq.mfhkpukqb.py.utulqonvhqkopkqbrnvu.bqko.
kofub.r—“Phnn!qPhnn!”—pubqtuqpunko.rqetufk.qtkqvpwqvtkoqtkwqjneaputnu,
ophyqpqeth.qpvpz,qwknnatulqnc.rqwne.kotulqtuqko.qyt.hbsqTqopc.qunqbnfik
kotwqKotulqtuqko.qyt.hbqvpwqko.qkotrbqnyqko.qk.uqjzhtub.rwqko.zqopb
ytr.bqpkqfwqyrneqEprws

Ynrqwne.qetufk.wqTqhpzqko.r.qtuqko.qrptuqpubqbpr u.wwqvpkjotul,qizqko.
tuk.retkk.ukqhtlok,qko.w.qenuwkrnfwqi.tulwqnyqe.kphqenctulqpinfkqtuqko.
btwkpuj.qnc.rqko.qo.bl.qknawsqPqkotuqopthqvpwqunvqi.ltuutul,qpubqpwqtk
jpe.qpubqv.ukqko.trqytlfr.wqlr.vqetwkzqpubqko.uqyhpwo.bqtuknqjh.pru.ww
plptusqUnvqpubqko.uqjpe.qpqlpaqtuqko.qhtlokutul,qpubqko.qutlok
wvphhnv.bqko.eqfas

Tqvpwqwnp .bqvtkoqopthqpinc.qpubqafbbh.qvpk.rqi.hnvsqTkqvpwqwne.qkte.
i.ynr.qezqihpu qpwknutwoe.ukqvnfhbqh.kqe.qwkrfllh.qfaqko.qipu qknqp
brt.rqanwtktnu,qnrqkotu qpkqphhqnyqezqteetu.ukqa.rths

Unkqyprqyrneqe.qvpwqpqhtkkh.qnu.-rnne.bqwxfpkk.r’wqofkqnyqvnnb,
wfrrnfub.bqizqpqapkjoqnyqankpknqlprb.usqTqwkrfllh.bqknqezqy..kqpkqhpwk,
pub,qjrnfjotulqpubqep tulqfw.qnyq.c.rzqjopuj.qnyqjnc.r,qTqepb.qpqrfu
ynrqkotwsqTqopee.r.bqpkqko.qbnnr,qifkqTqjnfhbqunkqep .qko.qa.nah.qo.pr
(tyqko.r.qv.r.qpuzqa.nah.qtuwtb.),qpubqpyk.rqpqkte.qTqb.wtwk.b,qpub,
pcpthtulqezw.hyqnyqpqbtkjoqynrqko.qlr.pk.rqaprkqnyqko.qvpz,qwfjj..b.b
tuqjrpvhtul,qfuniw.rc.bqizqko.w.qenuwkrnfwqepjotu.w,qtuknqko.qatu.
vnnbwqknvprbwqEpzifrzs

Fub.rqjnc.rqnyqkotwqTqafwo.bqnu,qv.kqpubqwotc.rtulqunv,qknvprbwqezqnvu
onfw.sqTqvph .bqpenulqko.qkr..wqkrztulqknqytubqko.qynnkapkosqTkqvpw
c.rzqbpr qtub..bqtuqko.qvnnb,qynrqko.qhtlokutulqvpwqunvqi.jnetul
tuyr.xf.uk,qpubqko.qopth,qvotjoqvpwqanfrtulqbnvuqtuqpqknrr.uk,qy.hhqtu
jnhfeuwqkornfloqko.qlpawqtuqko.qo.pczqynhtpl.s

TyqTqopbqyfhhzqr.phtw.bqko.qe.putulqnyqphhqko.qkotulwqTqopbqw..uqT
wonfhbqopc.qtee.btpk.hzqvnr .bqezqvpzqrnfubqkornfloqIzyh..kqknqWkr..k
Jniope,qpubqwnqlnu.qipj qknqr.gntuqezqvty.qpkqH.pko.ro.pbsqIfkqkopk
utlokqko.qwkrpul.u.wwqnyqkotulwqpinfkqe.,qpubqezqaozwtjphqvr.kjo.bu.ww,
ar.c.uk.bqe.,qynrqTqvpwqirftw.b,qv.prz,qv.kqknqko.qw tu,qb.py.u.bqpub
ihtub.bqizqko.qwknres

Tqopbqpqcplf.qtb.pqnyqlntulqnuqknqezqnvuqonfw.,qpubqkopkqvpwqpwqefjo
enktc.qpwqTqopbsqTqwkpll.r.bqkornfloqko.qkr..w,qy.hhqtuknqpqbtkjoqpub
irftw.bqezq u..wqplptuwkqpqahpu ,qpubqytuphhzqwahpwo.bqnfkqtuknqko.
hpu.qkopkqrpuqbnvuqyrneqko.qJnhh.l.qPrewsqTqwpzqwahpwo.b,qynrqko.qwknre
vpk.rqvpwqwv..atulqko.qwpubqbnvuqko.qothhqtuqpqefbbzqknrr.uksqKo.r.qtu
ko.qbpr u.wwqpqepuqihfub.r.bqtuknqe.qpubqw.ukqe.qr..htulqipj s

O.qlpc.qpqjrzqnyqk.rrnr,qwarpulqwtb.vpzw,qpubqrfwo.bqnuqi.ynr.qTqjnfhb
lpko.rqezqvtkwqwfyytjt.ukhzqknqwa.p qknqotesqWnqo.pczqvpwqko.qwkr.wwqny
ko.qwknreqgfwkqpkqkotwqahpj.qkopkqTqopbqko.qoprb.wkqkpw qknqvtuqezqvpz
faqko.qothhsqTqv.ukqjhnw.qfaqknqko.qy.uj.qnuqko.qh.ykqpubqvnr .bqezqvpz
phnulqtkwqaphtulws

U.prqko.qknaqTqwkfeih.bqfanuqwne.kotulqwnyk,qpub,qizqpqyhpwoqny
htlokutul,qwpvqi.kv..uqezqy..kqpqo.paqnyqihpj qirnpbjhnkoqpubqpqaptrqny
innkwsqI.ynr.qTqjnfhbqbtwktulftwoqjh.prhzqonvqko.qepuqhpz,qko.qyhtj .r
nyqhtlokqopbqapww.bsqTqwknnbqnc.rqoteqvptktulqynrqko.qu.mkqyhpwosqVo.u
tkqjpe.,qTqwpvqkopkqo.qvpwqpqwkfrbzqepu,qjo.pahzqifkqunkqwopiithz
br.ww.b;qotwqo.pbqvpwqi.ukqfub.rqotwqinbz,qpubqo.qhpzqjrfeah.bqfaqjhnw.
knqko.qy.uj.,qpwqkonfloqo.qopbqi..uqyhfulqctnh.ukhzqplptuwkqtks

Nc.rjnetulqko.qr.aflupuj.qupkfrphqknqnu.qvonqopbqu.c.rqi.ynr.qknfjo.bqp
b.pbqinbz,qTqwknna.bqpubqkfru.bqoteqnc.rqknqy..hqynrqotwqo.prksqO.qvpw
xftk.qb.pbsqPaapr.ukhzqotwqu.j qopbqi..uqirn .usqKo.qhtlokutulqyhpwo.b
ynrqpqkotrbqkte.,qpubqotwqypj.qh.pa.bqfanuqe.sqTqwarpulqknqezqy..ksqTk
vpwqko.qhpubhnrbqnyqko.qWankk.bqBnl,qvonw.qjnuc.zpuj.qTqopbqkp .us

Tqwk.aa.bqnc.rqoteqltul.rhzqpubqafwo.bqnuqfaqko.qothhsqTqepb.qezqvpzqiz
ko.qanhtj.qwkpktnuqpubqko.qJnhh.l.qPrewqknvprbwqezqnvuqonfw.sqUnkotul
vpwqifrutulqnuqko.qothhwtb.,qkonfloqyrneqko.qjneenuqko.r.qwkthhqjpe.qp
r.bqlhpr.qpubqpqrnhhtulqkfefhkqnyqrfbbzqwen .qi.pktulqfaqplptuwkqko.
br.ujotulqopthsqWnqyprqpwqTqjnfhbqw..qizqko.qyhpwo.w,qko.qonfw.wqpinfk
e.qv.r.qenwkhzqfutugfr.bsqIzqko.qJnhh.l.qPrewqpqbpr qo.paqhpzqtuqko.
rnpbs

Bnvuqko.qrnpbqknvprbwqEpzifrzqIrtbl.qko.r.qv.r.qcntj.wqpubqko.qwnfubqny
y..k,qifkqTqopbqunkqko.qjnfrpl.qknqwonfkqnrqknqlnqknqko.esqTqh.kqezw.hy
tuqvtkoqezqhpkjo .z,qjhnw.b,qhnj .bqpubqinhk.bqko.qbnnr,qwkpll.r.bqkn
ko.qynnkqnyqko.qwkptrjpw.,qpubqwpkqbnvusqEzqtepltupktnuqvpwqyfhhqny
konw.qwkrtbtulqe.kphhtjqenuwk.rw,qpubqnyqko.qb.pbqinbzqwepwo.bqplptuwk
ko.qy.uj.s

Tqjrnfjo.bqpkqko.qynnkqnyqko.qwkptrjpw.qvtkoqezqipj qknqko.qvphh,
wotc.rtulqctnh.ukhzs


MTs

PKqKO.qVTUBNVs

Tqopc.qphr.pbzqwptbqkopkqezqwknrewqnyq.enktnuqopc.qpqkrtj qny
.mopfwktulqko.ew.hc.wsqPyk.rqpqkte.qTqbtwjnc.r.bqkopkqTqvpwqjnhbqpub
v.k,qpubqvtkoqhtkkh.qannhwqnyqvpk.rqpinfkqe.qnuqko.qwkptrqjpra.ksqTqlnk
faqphenwkqe.joputjphhz,qv.ukqtuknqko.qbtutulqrnneqpubqbrpu qwne.
votw z,qpubqko.uqTqvpwqenc.bqknqjopul.qezqjhnko.ws

Pyk.rqTqopbqbnu.qkopkqTqv.ukqfawkptrwqknqezqwkfbz,qifkqvozqTqbtbqwnqT
bnqunkq unvsqKo.qvtubnvqnyqezqwkfbzqhnn wqnc.rqko.qkr..wqpubqko.
rpthvpzqknvprbwqOnrw.hhqJneenusqTuqko.qofrrzqnyqnfrqb.aprkfr.qkotw
vtubnvqopbqi..uqh.ykqna.usqKo.qapwwpl.qvpwqbpr ,qpub,qizqjnukrpwkqvtko
ko.qatjkfr.qko.qvtubnvqyrpe.q.ujhnw.b,qko.qwtb.qnyqko.qrnneqw..e.b
tea.u.krpihzqbpr sqTqwknaa.bqwonrkqtuqko.qbnnrvpzs

Ko.qkofub.rwknreqopbqapww.bsqKo.qknv.rwqnyqko.qNrt.ukphqJnhh.l.qpubqko.
atu.qkr..wqpinfkqtkqopbqlnu.,qpubqc.rzqyprqpvpz,qhtkqizqpqctctbqr.b
lhpr.,qko.qjneenuqpinfkqko.qwpub-atkwqvpwqctwtih.sqPjrnwwqko.qhtlok
ofl.qihpj qwopa.w,qlrnk.wxf.qpubqwkrpul.,qenc.bqifwthzqknqpubqyrns

Tkqw..e.bqtub..bqpwqtyqko.qvonh.qjnfukrzqtuqkopkqbtr.jktnuqvpwqnu
ytr.—pqirnpbqothhwtb.qw.kqvtkoqetufk.qknulf.wqnyqyhpe.,qwvpztulqpub
vrtkotulqvtkoqko.qlfwkwqnyqko.qbztulqwknre,qpubqkornvtulqpqr.b
r.yh.jktnuqfanuqko.qjhnfbqwjfbqpinc.sq.c.rzqunvqpubqko.uqpqopd.qny
wen .qyrneqwne.qu.pr.rqjnuyhplrpktnuqbrnc.qpjrnwwqko.qvtubnvqpubqotb
ko.qEprktpuqwopa.wsqTqjnfhbqunkqw..qvopkqko.zqv.r.qbntul,qunrqko.qjh.pr
ynreqnyqko.e,qunrqr.jnlutw.qko.qihpj qnig.jkwqko.zqv.r.qifwt.bqfanus
U.tko.rqjnfhbqTqw..qko.qu.pr.rqytr.,qkonfloqko.qr.yh.jktnuwqnyqtk
bpuj.bqnuqko.qvphhqpubqj.thtulqnyqko.qwkfbzsqPqwopra,qr.wtunfwqkpulqny
ifrutulqvpwqtuqko.qptrs

Tqjhnw.bqko.qbnnrquntw.h.wwhzqpubqjr.akqknvprbwqko.qvtubnvsqPwqTqbtb
wn,qko.qct.vqna.u.bqnfkqfukth,qnuqko.qnu.qopub,qtkqr.pjo.bqknqko.
onfw.wqpinfkqVn tulqwkpktnu,qpubqnuqko.qnko.rqknqko.qjoprr.bqpub
ihpj .u.bqatu.qvnnbwqnyqIzyh..ksqKo.r.qvpwqpqhtlokqbnvuqi.hnvqko.qothh,
nuqko.qrpthvpz,qu.prqko.qprjo,qpubqw.c.rphqnyqko.qonfw.wqphnulqko.
Epzifrzqrnpbqpubqko.qwkr..kwqu.prqko.qwkpktnuqv.r.qlhnvtulqrftuwsqKo.
htlokqfanuqko.qrpthvpzqafddh.bqe.qpkqytrwk;qko.r.qv.r.qpqihpj qo.paqpub
pqctctbqlhpr.,qpubqknqko.qrtlokqnyqkopkqpqrnvqnyqz.hhnvqnihnulwsqKo.uqT
a.rj.tc.bqkotwqvpwqpqvr.j .bqkrptu,qko.qynr.qaprkqwepwo.bqpubqnuqytr.,
ko.qotub.rqjprrtpl.wqwkthhqfanuqko.qrpthws

I.kv..uqko.w.qkor..qeptuqj.ukr.wqnyqhtlok—ko.qonfw.w,qko.qkrptu,qpub
ko.qifrutulqjnfukzqknvprbwqJoniope—wkr.kjo.bqtrr.lfhprqapkjo.wqnyqbpr 
jnfukrz,qirn .uqo.r.qpubqko.r.qizqtuk.rcphwqnyqbtehzqlhnvtulqpub
wen tulqlrnfubsqTkqvpwqko.qwkrpul.wkqwa.jkpjh.,qkopkqihpj q.mapuw.qw.k
vtkoqytr.sqTkqr.etub.bqe.,qenr.qkopuqpuzkotulq.hw.,qnyqko.qAnkk.rt.wqpk
utloksqPkqytrwkqTqjnfhbqbtwktulftwoqunqa.nah.qpkqphh,qkonfloqTqa..r.b
tuk.ukhzqynrqko.esqHpk.rqTqwpvqplptuwkqko.qhtlokqnyqVn tulqwkpktnuqp
ufei.rqnyqihpj qytlfr.wqofrrztulqnu.qpyk.rqko.qnko.rqpjrnwwqko.qhtu.s

Pubqkotwqvpwqko.qhtkkh.qvnrhbqtuqvotjoqTqopbqi..uqhtctulqw.jfr.hzqynr
z.prw,qkotwqyt.rzqjopnw!qVopkqopbqopaa.u.bqtuqko.qhpwkqw.c.uqonfrwqT
wkthhqbtbqunkq unv;qunrqbtbqTq unv,qkonfloqTqvpwqi.ltuutulqknqlf.ww,
ko.qr.hpktnuqi.kv..uqko.w.qe.joputjphqjnhnwwtqpubqko.qwhflltwoqhfeawqT
opbqw..uqbtwlnrl.bqyrneqko.qjzhtub.rsqVtkoqpqxf..rqy..htulqny
tea.rwnuphqtuk.r.wkqTqkfru.bqezqb.w qjoptrqknqko.qvtubnv,qwpkqbnvu,qpub
wkpr.bqpkqko.qihpj .u.bqjnfukrz,qpubqaprktjfhprhzqpkqko.qkor..qltlpuktj
ihpj qkotulwqkopkqv.r.qlntulqknqpubqyrnqtuqko.qlhpr.qpinfkqko.
wpub-atkws

Ko.zqw..e.bqpepdtulhzqifwzsqTqi.lpuqknqpw qezw.hyqvopkqko.zqjnfhbqi.s
V.r.qko.zqtuk.hhtl.ukqe.joputwew?qWfjoqpqkotulqTqy.hkqvpwqteanwwtih.s
NrqbtbqpqEprktpuqwtkqvtkotuq.pjo,qrfhtul,qbtr.jktul,qfwtul,qefjoqpwqp
epu’wqirptuqwtkwqpubqrfh.wqtuqotwqinbz?qTqi.lpuqknqjneapr.qko.qkotulw
knqofepuqepjotu.w,qknqpw qezw.hyqynrqko.qytrwkqkte.qtuqezqhty.qonvqpu
trnujhpbqnrqpqwk.peq.ultu.qvnfhbqw..eqknqpuqtuk.hhtl.ukqhnv.rqputephs

Ko.qwknreqopbqh.ykqko.qw zqjh.pr,qpubqnc.rqko.qwen .qnyqko.qifrutul
hpubqko.qhtkkh.qypbtulqatuantukqnyqEprwqvpwqbrnaatulqtuknqko.qv.wk,
vo.uqpqwnhbt.rqjpe.qtuknqezqlprb.usqTqo.prbqpqwhtlokqwjrpatulqpkqko.
y.uj.,qpubqrnfwtulqezw.hyqyrneqko.qh.koprlzqkopkqopbqyphh.uqfanuqe.,qT
hnn .bqbnvuqpubqwpvqoteqbtehz,qjhpei.rtulqnc.rqko.qaphtulwsqPkqko.
wtlokqnyqpunko.rqofepuqi.tulqezqknranrqapww.b,qpubqTqh.pu.bqnfkqnyqko.
vtubnvq.pl.rhzs

“Otwk!”qwptbqT,qtuqpqvotwa.rs

O.qwknaa.bqpwkrtb.qnyqko.qy.uj.qtuqbnfiksqKo.uqo.qjpe.qnc.rqpubqpjrnww
ko.qhpvuqknqko.qjnru.rqnyqko.qonfw.sqO.qi.ukqbnvuqpubqwk.aa.bqwnykhzs

“Von’wqko.r.?”qo.qwptb,qphwnqvotwa.rtul,qwkpubtulqfub.rqko.qvtubnvqpub
a..rtulqfas

“Vo.r.qpr.qznfqlntul?”qTqpw .bs

“Lnbq unvws”

“Pr.qznfqkrztulqknqotb.?”

“Kopk’wqtks”

“Jne.qtuknqko.qonfw.,”qTqwptbs

Tqv.ukqbnvu,qfuypwk.u.bqko.qbnnr,qpubqh.kqoteqtu,qpubqhnj .bqko.qbnnr
plptusqTqjnfhbqunkqw..qotwqypj.sqO.qvpwqopkh.ww,qpubqotwqjnpkqvpw
fuifkknu.bs

“EzqLnb!”qo.qwptb,qpwqTqbr.vqoteqtus

“Vopkqopwqopaa.u.b?”qTqpw .bs

“Vopkqopwu’k?”qTuqko.qniwjfrtkzqTqjnfhbqw..qo.qepb.qpql.wkfr.qny
b.waptrsq“Ko.zqvta.bqfwqnfk—wteahzqvta.bqfwqnfk,”qo.qr.a.pk.bqplptuqpub
plptus

O.qynhhnv.bqe.,qphenwkqe.joputjphhz,qtuknqko.qbtutulqrnnes

“Kp .qwne.qvotw z,”qTqwptb,qanfrtulqnfkqpqwktyyqbnw.s

O.qbrpu qtksqKo.uqpirfakhzqo.qwpkqbnvuqi.ynr.qko.qkpih.,qafkqotwqo.pb
nuqotwqprew,qpubqi.lpuqknqwniqpubqv..aqht .qpqhtkkh.qinz,qtuqpqa.ry.jk
apwwtnuqnyq.enktnu,qvoth.qT,qvtkoqpqjfrtnfwqynrl.kyfhu.wwqnyqezqnvu
r.j.ukqb.waptr,qwknnbqi.wtb.qote,qvnub.rtuls

Tkqvpwqpqhnulqkte.qi.ynr.qo.qjnfhbqwk.pbzqotwqu.rc.wqknqpuwv.rqez
xf.wktnuw,qpubqko.uqo.qpuwv.r.bqa.rah.mtulhzqpubqirn .uhzsqO.qvpwqp
brtc.rqtuqko.qprkthh.rz,qpubqopbqnuhzqjne.qtuknqpjktnuqpinfkqw.c.usqPk
kopkqkte.qytrtulqvpwqlntulqnuqpjrnwwqko.qjneenu,qpubqtkqvpwqwptbqko.
ytrwkqaprkzqnyqEprktpuwqv.r.qjrpvhtulqwhnvhzqknvprbwqko.trqw.jnub
jzhtub.rqfub.rqjnc.rqnyqpqe.kphqwot.hbs

Hpk.rqkotwqwot.hbqwkpll.r.bqfaqnuqkrtanbqh.lwqpubqi.jpe.qko.qytrwkqny
ko.qytloktul-epjotu.wqTqopbqw..usqKo.qlfuqo.qbrnc.qopbqi..uqfuhtei.r.b
u.prqOnrw.hh,qtuqnrb.rqknqjneepubqko.qwpub-atkw,qpubqtkwqprrtcphqtkqvpw
kopkqopbqar.jtatkpk.bqko.qpjktnusqPwqko.qhtei.rqlfuu.rwqv.ukqknqko.
r.pr,qotwqonrw.qkrnbqtuqpqrpiitkqonh.qpubqjpe.qbnvu,qkornvtulqoteqtukn
pqb.ar.wwtnuqnyqko.qlrnfubsqPkqko.qwpe.qene.ukqko.qlfuq.mahnb.bqi.otub
ote,qko.qpeefutktnuqih.vqfa,qko.r.qvpwqytr.qphhqpinfkqote,qpubqo.qynfub
otew.hyqhztulqfub.rqpqo.paqnyqjoprr.bqb.pbqe.uqpubqb.pbqonrw.ws

“Tqhpzqwkthh,”qo.qwptb,q“wjpr.bqnfkqnyqezqvtkw,qvtkoqko.qynr.qxfprk.r
nyqpqonrw.qpknaqnyqe.sqV.’bqi..uqvta.bqnfksqPubqko.qwe.hh—lnnbqLnb!
Ht .qifrukqe.pk!qTqvpwqofrkqpjrnwwqko.qipj qizqko.qyphhqnyqko.qonrw.,
pubqko.r.qTqopbqknqht.qfukthqTqy.hkqi.kk.rsqGfwkqht .qaprpb.qtkqopb
i..uqpqetufk.qi.ynr.—ko.uqwkfeih.,qipul,qwvtwo!”

“Vta.bqnfk!”qo.qwptbs

O.qopbqotbqfub.rqko.qb.pbqonrw.qynrqpqhnulqkte.,qa..atulqnfkqyfrktc.hz
pjrnwwqko.qjneenusqKo.qJprbtlpuqe.uqopbqkrt.bqpqrfwo,qtuqw tretwotul
nrb.r,qpkqko.qatk,qwteahzqknqi.qwv.akqnfkqnyq.mtwk.uj.sqKo.uqko.
enuwk.rqopbqrtw.uqknqtkwqy..kqpubqopbqi.lfuqknqvph qh.twfr.hzqknqpub
yrnqpjrnwwqko.qjneenuqpenulqko.qy.vqyfltktc.w,qvtkoqtkwqo.pbht .qonnb
kfrutulqpinfkq.mpjkhzqht .qko.qo.pbqnyqpqjnvh.bqofepuqi.tulsqPq tubqny
preqjprrt.bqpqjneahtjpk.bqe.kphhtjqjpw.,qpinfkqvotjoqlr..uqyhpwo.w
wjtukthhpk.b,qpubqnfkqnyqko.qyfuu.hqnyqkotwqko.r.qwen .bqko.qO.pk-Rpzs

Tuqpqy.vqetufk.wqko.r.qvpw,qwnqyprqpwqko.qwnhbt.rqjnfhbqw..,qunkqp
htctulqkotulqh.ykqfanuqko.qjneenu,qpubq.c.rzqifwoqpubqkr..qfanuqtkqkopk
vpwqunkqphr.pbzqpqihpj .u.bqw .h.knuqvpwqifrutulsqKo.qofwwprwqopbqi..u
nuqko.qrnpbqi.znubqko.qjfrcpkfr.qnyqko.qlrnfub,qpubqo.qwpvqunkotulqny
ko.esqO.qo.prbqko.qEpmtewqrpkkh.qynrqpqkte.qpubqko.uqi.jne.qwkthhsqKo.
ltpukqwpc.bqVn tulqwkpktnuqpubqtkwqjhfwk.rqnyqonfw.wqfukthqko.qhpwk;
ko.uqtuqpqene.ukqko.qO.pk-Rpzqvpwqirnflokqknqi.pr,qpubqko.qknvuqi.jpe.
pqo.paqnyqyt.rzqrftuwsqKo.uqko.qKotulqwofkqnyyqko.qO.pk-Rpz,qpub
kfrutulqtkwqipj qfanuqko.qprkthh.rzepu,qi.lpuqknqvpbbh.qpvpzqknvprbw
ko.qwenfhb.rtulqatu.qvnnbwqkopkqwo.hk.r.bqko.qw.jnubqjzhtub.rsqPwqtk
btbqwnqpqw.jnubqlhtkk.rtulqKtkpuqifthkqtkw.hyqfaqnfkqnyqko.qatks

Ko.qw.jnubqenuwk.rqynhhnv.bqko.qytrwk,qpubqpkqkopkqko.qprkthh.rzepu
i.lpuqknqjrpvhqc.rzqjpfktnfwhzqpjrnwwqko.qonkqo.pko.rqpwoqknvprbw
Onrw.hhsqO.qepupl.bqknql.kqphtc.qtuknqko.qbtkjoqizqko.qwtb.qnyqko.
rnpb,qpubqwnq.wjpa.bqknqVn tulsqKo.r.qotwqwknrzqi.jpe.q.gpjfhpknrzsqKo.
ahpj.qvpwqteapwwpih.sqTkqw..ewqko.r.qv.r.qpqy.vqa.nah.qphtc.qko.r.,
yrpuktjqynrqko.qenwkqaprkqpubqepuzqifru.bqpubqwjphb.bsqO.qvpwqkfru.b
pwtb.qizqko.qytr.,qpubqotbqpenulqwne.qphenwkqwjnrjotulqo.pawqnyqirn .u
vphhqpwqnu.qnyqko.qEprktpuqltpukwqr.kfru.bsqO.qwpvqkotwqnu.qafrwf.qp
epu,qjpkjoqoteqfaqtuqnu.qnyqtkwqwk..hzqk.ukpjh.w,qpubq unj qotwqo.pb
plptuwkqko.qkrfu qnyqpqatu.qkr..sqPkqhpwk,qpyk.rqutlokyphh,qko.
prkthh.rzepuqepb.qpqrfwoqynrqtkqpubqlnkqnc.rqko.qrpthvpzq.eipu e.uks

Wtuj.qko.uqo.qopbqi..uqw fh tulqphnulqknvprbwqEpzifrz,qtuqko.qona.qny
l.kktulqnfkqnyqbpul.rqHnubnuvprbsqA.nah.qv.r.qotbtulqtuqkr.ujo.wqpub
j.hhprw,qpubqepuzqnyqko.qwfrctcnrwqopbqepb.qnyyqknvprbwqVn tulqcthhpl.
pubqW.ubsqO.qopbqi..uqjnuwfe.bqvtkoqkotrwkqfukthqo.qynfubqnu.qnyqko.
vpk.rqeptuwqu.prqko.qrpthvpzqprjoqwepwo.b,qpubqko.qvpk.rqifiihtulqnfk
ht .qpqwartulqfanuqko.qrnpbs

Kopkqvpwqko.qwknrzqTqlnkqyrneqote,qitkqizqitksqO.qlr.vqjphe.rqk.hhtul
e.qpubqkrztulqknqep .qe.qw..qko.qkotulwqo.qopbqw..usqO.qopbq.pk.uqun
ynnbqwtuj.qetbbpz,qo.qknhbqe.q.prhzqtuqotwquprrpktc.,qpubqTqynfubqwne.
efkknuqpubqir.pbqtuqko.qapukrzqpubqirnflokqtkqtuknqko.qrnnesqV.qhtkqun
hpeaqynrqy.prqnyqpkkrpjktulqko.qEprktpuw,qpubq.c.rqpubqplptuqnfrqopubw
vnfhbqknfjoqfanuqir.pbqnrqe.pksqPwqo.qkph .b,qkotulwqpinfkqfwqjpe.
bpr hzqnfkqnyqko.qbpr u.ww,qpubqko.qkrpeah.bqifwo.wqpubqirn .uqrnw.
kr..wqnfkwtb.qko.qvtubnvqlr.vqbtwktujksqTkqvnfhbqw..eqkopkqpqufei.rqny
e.uqnrqputephwqopbqrfwo.bqpjrnwwqko.qhpvusqTqi.lpuqknqw..qotwqypj.,
ihpj .u.bqpubqopllprb,qpwqunqbnfikqetu.qvpwqphwns

Vo.uqv.qopbqytutwo.bq.pktulqv.qv.ukqwnykhzqfawkptrwqknqezqwkfbz,qpubqT
hnn .bqplptuqnfkqnyqko.qna.uqvtubnvsqTuqnu.qutlokqko.qcphh.zqopbqi.jne.
pqcphh.zqnyqpwo.wsqKo.qytr.wqopbqbvtubh.bqunvsqVo.r.qyhpe.wqopbqi..u
ko.r.qv.r.qunvqwkr.pe.rwqnyqwen .;qifkqko.qjnfukh.wwqrftuwqnyqwopkk.r.b
pubqlfkk.bqonfw.wqpubqihpwk.bqpubqihpj .u.bqkr..wqkopkqko.qutlokqopb
otbb.uqwknnbqnfkqunvqlpfukqpubqk.rrtih.qtuqko.qatkth.wwqhtlokqnyqbpvus
Z.kqo.r.qpubqko.r.qwne.qnig.jkqopbqopbqko.qhfj qknq.wjpa.—pqvotk.
rpthvpzqwtluphqo.r.,qko.q.ubqnyqpqlr..uonfw.qko.r.,qvotk.qpubqyr.wo
petbqko.qvr.j pl.sqU.c.rqi.ynr.qtuqko.qotwknrzqnyqvprypr.qopb
b.wkrfjktnuqi..uqwnqtubtwjrtetupk.qpubqwnqfutc.rwphsqPubqwotutulqvtko
ko.qlrnvtulqhtlokqnyqko.q.pwk,qkor..qnyqko.qe.kphhtjqltpukwqwknnbqpinfk
ko.qatk,qko.trqjnvhwqrnkpktulqpwqkonfloqko.zqv.r.qwfrc.ztulqko.
b.wnhpktnuqko.zqopbqepb.s

Tkqw..e.bqknqe.qkopkqko.qatkqopbqi..uq.uhprl.b,qpubq.c.rqpubqplptu
afyywqnyqctctbqlr..uqcpanfrqwkr.pe.bqfaqpubqnfkqnyqtkqknvprbwqko.
irtlok.utulqbpvu—wkr.pe.bqfa,qvotrh.b,qirn .,qpubqcputwo.bs

I.znubqv.r.qko.qathhprwqnyqytr.qpinfkqJoniopesqKo.zqi.jpe.qathhprwqny
ihnnbwonkqwen .qpkqko.qytrwkqknfjoqnyqbpzs


MTTs

VOPKqTqWPVqNYqKO.qB.WKRFJKTNUqNYqV.ZIRTBL.qPUBqWO.AA.RKNUs

Pwqko.qbpvuqlr.vqirtlok.rqv.qvtkobr.vqyrneqko.qvtubnvqyrneqvotjoqv.qopb
vpkjo.bqko.qEprktpuw,qpubqv.ukqc.rzqxft.khzqbnvuwkptrws

Ko.qprkthh.rzepuqplr..bqvtkoqe.qkopkqko.qonfw.qvpwqunqahpj.qknqwkpzqtus
O.qarnanw.b,qo.qwptb,qknqep .qotwqvpzqHnubnuvprb,qpubqko.uj.qr.gntuqotw
ipkk.rz—Unsq12,qnyqko.qOnrw.qPrkthh.rzsqEzqahpuqvpwqknqr.kfruqpkqnuj.
knqH.pko.ro.pb;qpubqwnqlr.pkhzqopbqko.qwkr.ulkoqnyqko.qEprktpuw
tear.ww.bqe.qkopkqTqopbqb.k.retu.bqknqkp .qezqvty.qknqU.vopc.u,qpubqln
vtkoqo.rqnfkqnyqko.qjnfukrzqynrkovtkosqYnrqTqphr.pbzqa.rj.tc.bqjh.prhz
kopkqko.qjnfukrzqpinfkqHnubnuqefwkqtu.ctkpihzqi.qko.qwj.u.qnyqp
btwpwkrnfwqwkrfllh.qi.ynr.qwfjoqjr.pkfr.wqpwqko.w.qjnfhbqi.qb.wkrnz.bs

I.kv..uqfwqpubqH.pko.ro.pb,qonv.c.r,qhpzqko.qkotrbqjzhtub.r,qvtkoqtkw
lfprbtulqltpukwsqOpbqTqi..uqphnu.,qTqkotu qTqwonfhbqopc.qkp .uqez
jopuj.qpubqwkrfj qpjrnwwqjnfukrzsqIfkqko.qprkthh.rzepuqbtwwfpb.bqe.:
“Tk’wqunq tubu.wwqknqko.qrtlokqwnrkqnyqvty.,”qo.qwptb,q“knqep .qo.rqp
vtbnv”;qpubqtuqko.q.ubqTqplr..bqknqlnqvtkoqote,qfub.rqjnc.rqnyqko.
vnnbw,qunrkovprbqpwqyprqpwqWkr..kqJniopeqi.ynr.qTqaprk.bqvtkoqotes
Ko.uj.qTqvnfhbqep .qpqitlqb.knfrqizq.awneqknqr.pjoqH.pko.ro.pbs

Tqwonfhbqopc.qwkprk.bqpkqnuj.,qifkqezqjneaputnuqopbqi..uqtuqpjktc.
w.rctj.qpubqo.q u.vqi.kk.rqkopuqkopksqO.qepb.qe.qrpuwpj qko.qonfw.qynr
pqyhpw ,qvotjoqo.qythh.bqvtkoqvotw z;qpubqv.qhtu.bq.c.rzqpcpthpih.
anj .kqvtkoqapj .kwqnyqitwjftkwqpubqwhtj.wqnyqe.pksqKo.uqv.qjr.akqnfk
nyqko.qonfw.,qpubqrpuqpwqxftj hzqpwqv.qjnfhbqbnvuqko.qthh-epb.qrnpbqiz
votjoqTqopbqjne.qnc.rutloksqKo.qonfw.wqw..e.bqb.w.rk.bsqTuqko.qrnpbqhpz
pqlrnfaqnyqkor..qjoprr.bqinbt.wqjhnw.qknl.ko.r,qwkrfj qb.pbqizqko.
O.pk-Rpz;qpubqo.r.qpubqko.r.qv.r.qkotulwqkopkqa.nah.qopbqbrnaa.b—p
jhnj ,qpqwhtaa.r,qpqwthc.rqwannu,qpubqko.qht .qannrqcphfpih.wsqPkqko.
jnru.rqkfrutulqfaqknvprbwqko.qanwkqnyytj.qpqhtkkh.qjprk,qythh.bqvtko
inm.wqpubqyfrutkfr.,qpubqonrw.h.ww,qo..h.bqnc.rqnuqpqirn .uqvo..hsqP
jpwoqinmqopbqi..uqopwkthzqwepwo.bqna.uqpubqkornvuqfub.rqko.qb.irtws

.mj.akqko.qhnbl.qpkqko.qNraopupl.,qvotjoqvpwqwkthhqnuqytr.,qunu.qnyqko.
onfw.wqopbqwfyy.r.bqc.rzqlr.pkhzqo.r.sqKo.qO.pk-Rpzqopbqwopc.bqko.
joteu.zqknawqpubqapww.bsqZ.k,qwpc.qnfrw.hc.w,qko.r.qbtbqunkqw..eqknqi.
pqhtctulqwnfhqnuqEpzifrzqOthhsqKo.qepgnrtkzqnyqko.qtuopitkpukwqopb
.wjpa.b,qTqwfaanw.,qizqvpzqnyqko.qNhbqVn tulqrnpb—ko.qrnpbqTqopbqkp .u
vo.uqTqbrnc.qknqH.pko.ro.pb—nrqko.zqopbqotbb.us

V.qv.ukqbnvuqko.qhpu.,qizqko.qinbzqnyqko.qepuqtuqihpj ,qwnbb.uqunvqyrne
ko.qnc.rutlokqopth,qpubqirn .qtuknqko.qvnnbwqpkqko.qynnkqnyqko.qothhs
V.qafwo.bqkornfloqko.w.qknvprbwqko.qrpthvpzqvtkonfkqe..ktulqpqwnfhsqKo.
vnnbwqpjrnwwqko.qhtu.qv.r.qifkqko.qwjprr.bqpubqihpj .u.bqrftuwqny
vnnbw;qynrqko.qenwkqaprkqko.qkr..wqopbqyphh.u,qifkqpqj.rkptuqarnanrktnu
wkthhqwknnb,qbtwephqlr.zqwk.ew,qvtkoqbpr qirnvuqynhtpl.qtuwk.pbqny
lr..us

Nuqnfrqwtb.qko.qytr.qopbqbnu.qunqenr.qkopuqwjnrjoqko.qu.pr.rqkr..w;qtk
opbqypth.bqknqw.jfr.qtkwqynnktulsqTuqnu.qahpj.qko.qvnnbe.uqopbqi..uqpk
vnr qnuqWpkfrbpz;qkr..w,qy.hh.bqpubqyr.wohzqkrtee.b,qhpzqtuqpqjh.prtul,
vtkoqo.pawqnyqwpvbfwkqizqko.qwpvtul-epjotu.qpubqtkwq.ultu.sqOprbqizqvpw
pqk.eanrprzqofk,qb.w.rk.bsqKo.r.qvpwqunkqpqir.pkoqnyqvtubqkotwqenrutul,
pubq.c.rzkotulqvpwqwkrpul.hzqwkthhsq.c.uqko.qitrbwqv.r.qofwo.b,qpubqpw
v.qofrrt.bqphnulqTqpubqko.qprkthh.rzepuqkph .bqtuqvotwa.rwqpubqhnn .b
unvqpubqplptuqnc.rqnfrqwonfhb.rwsqNuj.qnrqkvtj.qv.qwknaa.bqknqhtwk.us

Pyk.rqpqkte.qv.qbr.vqu.prqko.qrnpb,qpubqpwqv.qbtbqwnqv.qo.prbqko.
jhpkk.rqnyqonnywqpubqwpvqkornfloqko.qkr..qwk.ewqkor..qjpcphrzqwnhbt.rw
rtbtulqwhnvhzqknvprbwqVn tulsqV.qopth.bqko.e,qpubqko.zqophk.bqvoth.qv.
ofrrt.bqknvprbwqko.esqTkqvpwqpqht.fk.upukqpubqpqjnfah.qnyqartcpk.wqny
ko.q8koqOfwwprw,qvtkoqpqwkpubqht .qpqko.nbnhtk.,qvotjoqko.qprkthh.rzepu
knhbqe.qvpwqpqo.htnlrpaos

“Znfqpr.qko.qytrwkqe.uqT’c.qw..uqjnetulqkotwqvpzqkotwqenrutul,”qwptb
ko.qht.fk.upuksq“Vopk’wqir.vtul?”

Otwqcntj.qpubqypj.qv.r.q.pl.rsqKo.qe.uqi.otubqoteqwkpr.bqjfrtnfwhzsqKo.
prkthh.rzepuqgfea.bqbnvuqko.qipu qtuknqko.qrnpbqpubqwphfk.bs

“Lfuqb.wkrnz.bqhpwkqutlok,qwtrsqOpc.qi..uqotbtulsqKrztulqknqr.gntu
ipkk.rz,qwtrsqZnf’hhqjne.qtuqwtlokqnyqko.qEprktpuw,qTq.ma.jk,qpinfk
ophyqpqeth.qphnulqkotwqrnpbs”

“Vopkqko.qbtj .uwqpr.qko.zqht .?”qpw .bqko.qht.fk.upuks

“Ltpukwqtuqprenfr,qwtrsqOfubr.bqy..kqotlosqKor..qh.lwqpubqpqinbzqht .
’hfetutfe,qvtkoqpqetlokzqlr.pkqo.pbqtuqpqonnb,qwtrs”

“L.kqnfk!”qwptbqko.qht.fk.upuksq“Vopkqjnuynfub.bqunuw.uw.!”

“Znf’hhqw..,qwtrsqKo.zqjprrzqpq tubqnyqinm,qwtr,qkopkqwonnkwqytr.qpub
wkrt .wqznfqb.pbs”

“Vopkqb’z.qe.pu—pqlfu?”

“Un,qwtr,”qpubqko.qprkthh.rzepuqi.lpuqpqctctbqpjjnfukqnyqko.qO.pk-Rpzs
Ophyvpzqkornflo,qko.qht.fk.upukqtuk.rrfak.bqoteqpubqhnn .bqfaqpkqe.sqT
vpwqwkthhqwkpubtulqnuqko.qipu qizqko.qwtb.qnyqko.qrnpbs

“Tk’wqa.ry.jkhzqkrf.,”qTqwptbs

“V.hh,”qwptbqko.qht.fk.upuk,q“Tqwfaanw.qtk’wqezqifwtu.wwqknqw..qtkqknns
Hnn qo.r.”—knqko.qprkthh.rzepu—“v.’r.qb.kpth.bqo.r.qjh.prtulqa.nah.qnfk
nyqko.trqonfw.wsqZnf’bqi.kk.rqlnqphnulqpubqr.anrkqznfrw.hyqkn
Irtlpbt.r-L.u.rphqEprctu,qpubqk.hhqoteqphhqznfq unvsqO.’wqpkqV.zirtbl.s
 unvqko.qvpz?”

“Tqbn,”qTqwptb;qpubqo.qkfru.bqotwqonrw.qwnfkovprbqplptus

“Ophyqpqeth.,qznfqwpz?”qwptbqo.s

“Pkqenwk,”qTqpuwv.r.b,qpubqantuk.bqnc.rqko.qkr..knawqwnfkovprbsqO.
kopu .bqe.qpubqrnb.qnu,qpubqv.qwpvqko.equnqenr.s

Yprko.rqphnulqv.qjpe.qfanuqpqlrnfaqnyqkor..qvne.uqpubqkvnqjothbr.uqtu
ko.qrnpb,qifwzqjh.prtulqnfkqpqhpinfr.r’wqjnkkpl.sqKo.zqopbqlnkqonhbqny
pqhtkkh.qopubqkrfj ,qpubqv.r.qathtulqtkqfaqvtkoqfujh.pu-hnn tulqifubh.w
pubqwopiizqyfrutkfr.sqKo.zqv.r.qphhqknnqpwwtbfnfwhzq.ulpl.bqknqkph qkn
fwqpwqv.qapww.bs

IzqIzyh..kqwkpktnuqv.q.e.rl.bqyrneqko.qatu.qkr..w,qpubqynfubqko.
jnfukrzqjpheqpubqa.pj.yfhqfub.rqko.qenrutulqwfuhtloksqV.qv.r.qypr
i.znubqko.qrpul.qnyqko.qO.pk-Rpzqko.r.,qpubqopbqtkqunkqi..uqynrqko.
wth.ukqb.w.rktnuqnyqwne.qnyqko.qonfw.w,qko.qwktrrtulqenc.e.ukqny
apj tulqtuqnko.rw,qpubqko.q unkqnyqwnhbt.rwqwkpubtulqnuqko.qirtbl.qnc.r
ko.qrpthvpzqpubqwkprtulqbnvuqko.qhtu.qknvprbwqVn tul,qko.qbpzqvnfhb
opc.qw..e.bqc.rzqht .qpuzqnko.rqWfubpzs

W.c.rphqypreqvpllnuwqpubqjprkwqv.r.qenctulqjr.p thzqphnulqko.qrnpbqkn
Pbbh.wknu.,qpubqwfbb.uhzqkornfloqko.qlpk.qnyqpqyt.hbqv.qwpv,qpjrnwwqp
wkr.kjoqnyqyhpkqe.pbnv,qwtmqkv.hc.-anfub.rwqwkpubtulqu.pkhzqpkq.xfph
btwkpuj.wqantuktulqknvprbwqVn tulsqKo.qlfuu.rwqwknnbqizqko.qlfuw
vptktul,qpubqko.qpeefutktnuqvpllnuwqv.r.qpkqpqifwtu.ww-ht .qbtwkpuj.s
Ko.qe.uqwknnbqphenwkqpwqtyqfub.rqtuwa.jktnus

“Kopk’wqlnnb!”qwptbqTsq“Ko.zqvthhql.kqnu.qyptrqwonk,qpkqpuzqrpk.s”

Ko.qprkthh.rzepuqo.wtkpk.bqpkqko.qlpk.s

“Tqwophhqlnqnu,”qo.qwptbs

Yprko.rqnuqknvprbwqV.zirtbl.,qgfwkqnc.rqko.qirtbl.,qko.r.qv.r.qpqufei.r
nyqe.uqtuqvotk.qypktlf.qgpj .kwqkornvtulqfaqpqhnulqrpeaprk,qpubqenr.
lfuwqi.otubs

“Tk’wqinvwqpubqprrnvwqplptuwkqko.qhtlokutul,qpuzonv,”qwptbqko.
prkthh.rzepusq“Ko.zq’pc.u’kqw..uqkopkqytr.-i.peqz.ks”

Ko.qnyytj.rwqvonqv.r.qunkqpjktc.hzq.ulpl.bqwknnbqpubqwkpr.bqnc.rqko.
kr..knawqwnfkov.wkvprb,qpubqko.qe.uqbtlltulqvnfhbqwknaq.c.rzqunvqpub
plptuqknqwkpr.qtuqko.qwpe.qbtr.jktnus

Izyh..kqvpwqtuqpqkfefhk;qa.nah.qapj tul,qpubqpqwjnr.qnyqofwwprw,qwne.
nyqko.eqbtwenfuk.b,qwne.qnuqonrw.ipj ,qv.r.qofuktulqko.eqpinfksqKor..
nrqynfrqihpj qlnc.rue.ukqvpllnuw,qvtkoqjrnww.wqtuqvotk.qjtrjh.w,qpubqpu
nhbqneutifw,qpenulqnko.rqc.otjh.w,qv.r.qi.tulqhnpb.bqtuqko.qcthhpl.
wkr..ksqKo.r.qv.r.qwjnr.wqnyqa.nah.,qenwkqnyqko.eqwfyytjt.ukhz
wpiipktjphqknqopc.qpwwfe.bqko.trqi.wkqjhnko.wsqKo.qwnhbt.rwqv.r.qopctul
ko.qlr.pk.wkqbtyytjfhkzqtuqep tulqko.eqr.phtw.qko.qlrpctkzqnyqko.tr
anwtktnusqV.qwpvqnu.qwortc.hh.bqnhbqy.hhnvqvtkoqpqofl.qinmqpubqpqwjnr.
nrqenr.qnyqyhnv.rqankwqjnukptutulqnrjotbw,qpulrthzq.manwkfhpktulqvtko
ko.qjnranrphqvonqvnfhbqh.pc.qko.eqi.otubsqTqwknaa.bqpubqlrtaa.bqotw
pres

“Bnqznfq unvqvopk’wqnc.rqko.r.?”qTqwptb,qantuktulqpkqko.qatu.qknawqkopk
otbqko.qEprktpuws

“.o?”qwptbqo.,qkfrutulsq“Tqvpwq.mahptutu’qko.w.qtwqcphhzih.s”

“B.pko!”qTqwonfk.bsq“B.pkoqtwqjnetul!qB.pko!”qpubqh.pctulqoteqknqbtl.wk
kopkqtyqo.qjnfhb,qTqofrrt.bqnuqpyk.rqko.qprkthh.rz-epusqPkqko.qjnru.rqT
hnn .bqipj sqKo.qwnhbt.rqopbqh.ykqote,qpubqo.qvpwqwkthhqwkpubtulqizqotw
inm,qvtkoqko.qankwqnyqnrjotbwqnuqko.qhtbqnyqtk,qpubqwkprtulqcplf.hz
nc.rqko.qkr..ws

Unqnu.qtuqV.zirtbl.qjnfhbqk.hhqfwqvo.r.qko.qo.pbxfprk.rwqv.r.
.wkpihtwo.b;qko.qvonh.qahpj.qvpwqtuqwfjoqjnuyfwtnuqpwqTqopbqu.c.rqw..u
tuqpuzqknvuqi.ynr.sqJprkw,qjprrtpl.wq.c.rzvo.r.,qko.qenwkqpwknutwotul
etwj.hhpuzqnyqjnuc.zpuj.wqpubqonrw.yh.wosqKo.qr.wa.jkpih.qtuopitkpukw
nyqko.qahpj.,qe.uqtuqlnhyqpubqinpktulqjnwkfe.w,qvtc.wqar.kkthzqbr.ww.b,
v.r.qapj tul,qrtc.r-wtb.qhnpy.rwq.u.rl.ktjphhzqo.hatul,qjothbr.u
.mjtk.b,qpub,qynrqko.qenwkqaprk,qotlohzqb.htlok.bqpkqkotwqpwknutwotul
cprtpktnuqnyqko.trqWfubpzq.ma.rt.uj.wsqTuqko.qetbwkqnyqtkqphhqko.
vnrkozqctjprqvpwqc.rzqahfj thzqonhbtulqpuq.prhzqj.h.irpktnu,qpubqotw
i.hhqvpwqgpulhtulqnfkqpinc.qko.q.mjtk.e.uks

Tqpubqko.qprkthh.rzepu,qw.pk.bqnuqko.qwk.aqnyqko.qbrtu tulqynfukptu,
epb.qpqc.rzqapwwpih.qe.phqfanuqvopkqv.qopbqirnflokqvtkoqfwsqApkrnhwqny
wnhbt.rw—o.r.qunqhnul.rqofwwprw,qifkqlr.upbt.rwqtuqvotk.—v.r.qvprutul
a.nah.qknqenc.qunvqnrqknqkp .qr.yfl.qtuqko.trqj.hhprwqpwqwnnuqpwqko.
ytrtulqi.lpusqV.qwpvqpwqv.qjrnww.bqko.qrpthvpzqirtbl.qkopkqpqlrnvtul
jrnvbqnyqa.nah.qopbqpww.eih.bqtuqpubqpinfkqko.qrpthvpzqwkpktnu,qpubqko.
wvpretulqahpkynreqvpwqath.bqvtkoqinm.wqpubqapj pl.wsqKo.qnrbtuprz
krpyytjqopbqi..uqwknaa.b,qTqi.ht.c.,qtuqnrb.rqknqphhnvqnyqko.qapwwpl.
nyqkrnnawqpubqlfuwqknqJo.rkw.z,qpubqTqopc.qo.prbqwtuj.qkopkqpqwpcpl.
wkrfllh.qnjjfrr.bqynrqahpj.wqtuqko.qwa.jtphqkrptuwqkopkqv.r.qafkqnuqpk
pqhpk.rqonfrs

V.qr.eptu.bqpkqV.zirtbl.qfukthqetbbpz,qpubqpkqkopkqonfrqv.qynfub
nfrw.hc.wqpkqko.qahpj.qu.prqWo.aa.rknuqHnj qvo.r.qko.qV.zqpubqKope.w
gntusqAprkqnyqko.qkte.qv.qwa.ukqo.hatulqkvnqnhbqvne.uqknqapj qpqhtkkh.
jprksqKo.qV.zqopwqpqkr.ih.qenfko,qpubqpkqkotwqantukqinpkwqpr.qknqi.
otr.b,qpubqko.r.qvpwqpqy.rrzqpjrnwwqko.qrtc.rsqNuqko.qWo.aa.rknuqwtb.
vpwqpuqtuuqvtkoqpqhpvu,qpubqi.znubqkopkqko.qknv.rqnyqWo.aa.rknu
Jofrjo—tkqopwqi..uqr.ahpj.bqizqpqwatr.—rnw.qpinc.qko.qkr..ws

O.r.qv.qynfubqpuq.mjtk.bqpubquntwzqjrnvbqnyqyfltktc.wsqPwqz.kqko.
yhtlokqopbqunkqlrnvuqknqpqaputj,qifkqko.r.qv.r.qphr.pbzqyprqenr.qa.nah.
kopuqphhqko.qinpkwqlntulqknqpubqyrnqjnfhbq.upih.qknqjrnwwsqA.nah.qjpe.
apuktulqphnulqfub.rqo.pczqifrb.uw;qnu.qofwipubqpubqvty.qv.r.q.c.u
jprrztulqpqwephhqnfkonfw.qbnnrqi.kv..uqko.e,qvtkoqwne.qnyqko.tr
onfw.onhbqlnnbwqath.bqko.r.nusqNu.qepuqknhbqfwqo.qe.pukqknqkrzqknql.k
pvpzqyrneqWo.aa.rknuqwkpktnus

Ko.r.qvpwqpqhnkqnyqwonfktul,qpubqnu.qepuqvpwq.c.uqg.wktulsqKo.qtb.p
a.nah.qw..e.bqknqopc.qo.r.qvpwqkopkqko.qEprktpuwqv.r.qwteahzqynretbpih.
ofepuqi.tulw,qvonqetlokqpkkpj qpubqwpj qko.qknvu,qknqi.qj.rkptuhz
b.wkrnz.bqtuqko.q.ubsq.c.rzqunvqpubqko.uqa.nah.qvnfhbqlhpuj.qu.rcnfwhz
pjrnwwqko.qV.z,qpkqko.qe.pbnvwqknvprbwqJo.rkw.z,qifkq.c.rzkotulqnc.r
ko.r.qvpwqwkthhs

Pjrnwwqko.qKope.w,q.mj.akqgfwkqvo.r.qko.qinpkwqhpub.b,q.c.rzkotulqvpw
xft.k,qtuqctctbqjnukrpwkqvtkoqko.qWfrr.zqwtb.sqKo.qa.nah.qvonqhpub.b
ko.r.qyrneqko.qinpkwqv.ukqkrpeatulqnyyqbnvuqko.qhpu.sqKo.qitlqy.rrzinpk
opbqgfwkqepb.qpqgnfru.zsqKor..qnrqynfrqwnhbt.rwqwknnbqnuqko.qhpvuqny
ko.qtuu,qwkprtulqpubqg.wktulqpkqko.qyfltktc.w,qvtkonfkqnyy.rtulqkn
o.hasqKo.qtuuqvpwqjhnw.b,qpwqtkqvpwqunvqvtkotuqarnotitk.bqonfrws

“Vopk’wqkopk?”qjrt.bqpqinpkepu,qpubq“Wofkqfa,qznfqynnh!”qwptbqpqepu
u.prqe.qknqpqz.hatulqbnlsqKo.uqko.qwnfubqjpe.qplptu,qkotwqkte.qyrneqko.
btr.jktnuqnyqJo.rkw.z,qpqefyyh.bqkofb—ko.qwnfubqnyqpqlfus

Ko.qytloktulqvpwqi.ltuutulsqPhenwkqtee.btpk.hzqfuw..uqipkk.rt.wqpjrnww
ko.qrtc.rqknqnfrqrtlok,qfuw..uqi.jpfw.qnyqko.qkr..w,qknn qfaqko.
jonrfw,qytrtulqo.pcthzqnu.qpyk.rqko.qnko.rsqPqvnepuqwjr.pe.bsq.c.rznu.
wknnbqprr.wk.bqizqko.qwfbb.uqwktrqnyqipkkh.,qu.prqfwqpubqz.kqtuctwtih.
knqfwsqUnkotulqvpwqknqi.qw..uqwpc.qyhpkqe.pbnvw,qjnvwqy..btul
fujnuj.ru.bhzqynrqko.qenwkqaprk,qpubqwthc.rzqanhhprbqvthhnvwqenktnuh.ww
tuqko.qvpreqwfuhtloks

“Ko.qwng.rw’hhqwknaq’.e,”qwptbqpqvnepuqi.wtb.qe.,qbnfikyfhhzsqP
opdtu.wwqrnw.qnc.rqko.qkr..knaws

Ko.uqwfbb.uhzqv.qwpvqpqrfwoqnyqwen .qyprqpvpzqfaqko.qrtc.r,qpqafyyqny
wen .qkopkqg.r .bqfaqtuknqko.qptrqpubqoful;qpubqynrkovtkoqko.qlrnfub
o.pc.bqfub.rqynnkqpubqpqo.pczq.mahnwtnuqwonn qko.qptr,qwepwotulqkvnqnr
kor..qvtubnvwqtuqko.qonfw.wqu.pr,qpubqh.pctulqfwqpwknutwo.bs

“O.r.qko.zqpr.!”qwonfk.bqpqepuqtuqpqihf.qg.rw.zsq“Znub.r!qB’z.rqw..
ko.e?qZnub.r!”

Xftj hz,qnu.qpyk.rqko.qnko.r,qnu.,qkvn,qkor..,qynfrqnyqko.qprenfr.b
Eprktpuwqpaa.pr.b,qyprqpvpzqnc.rqko.qhtkkh.qkr..w,qpjrnwwqko.qyhpk
e.pbnvwqkopkqwkr.kjo.bqknvprbwqJo.rkw.z,qpubqwkrtbtulqofrrt.bhzqknvprbw
ko.qrtc.rsqHtkkh.qjnvh.bqytlfr.wqko.zqw..e.bqpkqytrwk,qlntulqvtkoqp
rnhhtulqenktnuqpubqpwqypwkqpwqyhztulqitrbws

Ko.u,qpbcpujtulqnihtxf.hzqknvprbwqfw,qjpe.qpqytykosqKo.trqprenfr.b
inbt.wqlhtkk.r.bqtuqko.qwfuqpwqko.zqwv.akqwvtykhzqynrvprbqfanuqko.
lfuw,qlrnvtulqrpatbhzqhprl.rqpwqko.zqbr.vqu.pr.rsqNu.qnuqko.q.mkr.e.
h.yk,qko.qr.enk.wkqkopkqtw,qyhnfrtwo.bqpqofl.qjpw.qotloqtuqko.qptr,qpub
ko.qlonwkhz,qk.rrtih.qO.pk-RpzqTqopbqphr.pbzqw..uqnuqYrtbpzqutlokqwenk.
knvprbwqJo.rkw.z,qpubqwkrfj qko.qknvus

Pkqwtlokqnyqko.w.qwkrpul.,qwvtyk,qpubqk.rrtih.qjr.pkfr.wqko.qjrnvbqu.pr
ko.qvpk.r’wq.bl.qw..e.bqknqe.qknqi.qynrqpqene.ukqonrrnr-wkrfj sqKo.r.
vpwqunqwjr.petulqnrqwonfktul,qifkqpqwth.uj.sqKo.uqpqonprw.qefrefrqpubqp
enc.e.ukqnyqy..k—pqwahpwotulqyrneqko.qvpk.rsqPqepu,qknnqyrtlok.u.bqkn
brnaqko.qanrkepuk.pfqo.qjprrt.bqnuqotwqwonfhb.r,qwvfulqrnfubqpubqw.uk
e.qwkpll.rtulqvtkoqpqihnvqyrneqko.qjnru.rqnyqotwqifrb.usqPqvnepuqkorfwk
pkqe.qvtkoqo.rqopubqpubqrfwo.bqapwkqe.sqTqkfru.bqvtkoqko.qrfwoqnyqko.
a.nah.,qifkqTqvpwqunkqknnqk.rrtyt.bqynrqkonfloksqKo.qk.rrtih.qO.pk-Rpz
vpwqtuqezqetubsqKnql.kqfub.rqvpk.r!qKopkqvpwqtk!

“L.kqfub.rqvpk.r!”qTqwonfk.b,qfuo..b.bs

Tqypj.bqpinfkqplptu,qpubqrfwo.bqknvprbwqko.qpaarnpjotulqEprktpu,qrfwo.b
rtlokqbnvuqko.qlrpc.hhzqi.pjoqpubqo.pbhnulqtuknqko.qvpk.rsqNko.rwqbtb
ko.qwpe.sqPqinpkhnpbqnyqa.nah.qafkktulqipj qjpe.qh.patulqnfkqpwqT
rfwo.bqapwksqKo.qwknu.wqfub.rqezqy..kqv.r.qefbbzqpubqwhtaa.rz,qpubqko.
rtc.rqvpwqwnqhnvqkopkqTqrpuqa.ropawqkv.ukzqy..kqwjprj.hzqvptwk-b..as
Ko.u,qpwqko.qEprktpuqknv.r.bqnc.ro.pbqwjprj.hzqpqjnfah.qnyqofubr.b
zprbwqpvpz,qTqyhfulqezw.hyqynrvprbqfub.rqko.qwfrypj.sqKo.qwahpwo.wqny
ko.qa.nah.qtuqko.qinpkwqh.patulqtuknqko.qrtc.rqwnfub.bqht .
kofub.rjhpawqtuqezq.prwsqA.nah.qv.r.qhpubtulqopwkthzqnuqinkoqwtb.wqny
ko.qrtc.rsqIfkqko.qEprktpuqepjotu.qknn qunqenr.qunktj.qynrqko.qene.uk
nyqko.qa.nah.qrfuutulqkotwqvpzqpubqkopkqkopuqpqepuqvnfhbqnyqko.
jnuyfwtnuqnyqpukwqtuqpqu.wkqplptuwkqvotjoqotwqynnkqopwq tj .bsqVo.u,
ophyqwfyynjpk.b,qTqrptw.bqezqo.pbqpinc.qvpk.r,qko.qEprktpu’wqonnb
antuk.bqpkqko.qipkk.rt.wqkopkqv.r.qwkthhqytrtulqpjrnwwqko.qrtc.r,qpub
pwqtkqpbcpuj.bqtkqwvfulqhnnw.qvopkqefwkqopc.qi..uqko.ql.u.rpknrqnyqko.
O.pk-Rpzs

Tuqpunko.rqene.ukqtkqvpwqnuqko.qipu ,qpubqtuqpqwkrtb.qvpbtulqophyvpz
pjrnwwsqKo.q u..wqnyqtkwqynr.enwkqh.lwqi.ukqpkqko.qyprko.rqipu ,qpubqtu
punko.rqene.ukqtkqopbqrptw.bqtkw.hyqknqtkwqyfhhqo.tlokqplptu,qjhnw.qkn
ko.qcthhpl.qnyqWo.aa.rknusqYnrkovtkoqko.qwtmqlfuwqvotjo,qfu unvuqkn
puznu.qnuqko.qrtlokqipu ,qopbqi..uqotbb.uqi.otubqko.qnfkw trkwqnyqkopk
cthhpl.,qytr.bqwtefhkpu.nfwhzsqKo.qwfbb.uqu.prqjnujfwwtnu,qko.qhpwk
jhnw.qfanuqko.qytrwk,qepb.qezqo.prkqgfeasqKo.qenuwk.rqvpwqphr.pbz
rptwtulqko.qjpw.ql.u.rpktulqko.qO.pk-Rpzqpwqko.qytrwkqwo.hhqifrwkqwtm
zprbwqpinc.qko.qonnbs

Tqlpc.qpqjrzqnyqpwknutwoe.uksqTqwpvqpubqkonflokqunkotulqnyqko.qnko.r
ynfrqEprktpuqenuwk.rw;qezqpkk.uktnuqvpwqrtc.k.bqfanuqko.qu.pr.r
tujtb.uksqWtefhkpu.nfwhzqkvnqnko.rqwo.hhwqifrwkqtuqko.qptrqu.prqko.
inbzqpwqko.qonnbqkvtwk.bqrnfubqtuqkte.qknqr.j.tc.,qifkqunkqtuqkte.qkn
bnbl.,qko.qynfrkoqwo.hhs

Ko.qwo.hhqifrwkqjh.puqtuqko.qypj.qnyqko.qKotulsqKo.qonnbqifhl.b,
yhpwo.b,qvpwqvotrh.bqnyyqtuqpqbnd.uqkpkk.r.bqyrple.ukwqnyqr.bqyh.woqpub
lhtkk.rtulqe.kphs

“Otk!”qwonfk.bqT,qvtkoqwne.kotulqi.kv..uqpqwjr.peqpubqpqjo..rs

Tqo.prbqpuwv.rtulqwonfkwqyrneqko.qa.nah.qtuqko.qvpk.rqpinfkqe.sqTqjnfhb
opc.qh.pa.bqnfkqnyqko.qvpk.rqvtkoqkopkqene.ukprzq.mfhkpktnus

Ko.qb.jpatkpk.bqjnhnwwfwqr..h.bqht .qpqbrfu .uqltpuk;qifkqtkqbtbqunk
yphhqnc.rsqTkqr.jnc.r.bqtkwqiphpuj.qizqpqetrpjh.,qpub,qunqhnul.r
o..btulqtkwqwk.awqpubqvtkoqko.qjpe.rpqkopkqytr.bqko.qO.pk-Rpzqunv
rtltbhzqfao.hb,qtkqr..h.bqwvtykhzqfanuqWo.aa.rknusqKo.qhtctul
tuk.hhtl.uj.,qko.qEprktpuqvtkotuqko.qonnb,qvpwqwhptuqpubqwahpwo.bqkn
ko.qynfrqvtubwqnyqo.pc.u,qpubqko.qKotulqvpwqunvqifkqpqe.r.qtukrtjpk.
b.ctj.qnyqe.kphqvotrhtulqknqb.wkrfjktnusqTkqbrnc.qphnulqtuqpqwkrptlok
htu.,qtujpapih.qnyqlftbpuj.sqTkqwkrfj qko.qknv.rqnyqWo.aa.rknuqJofrjo,
wepwotulqtkqbnvuqpwqko.qteapjkqnyqpqipkk.rtulqrpeqetlokqopc.qbnu.,
wv.rc.bqpwtb.,qihfub.r.bqnuqpubqjnhhpaw.bqvtkoqkr.e.ubnfwqynrj.qtukn
ko.qrtc.rqnfkqnyqezqwtloks

Pqctnh.ukq.mahnwtnuqwonn qko.qptr,qpubqpqwanfkqnyqvpk.r,qwk.pe,qefb,
pubqwopkk.r.bqe.kphqwonkqyprqfaqtuknqko.qw zsqPwqko.qjpe.rpqnyqko.
O.pk-Rpzqotkqko.qvpk.r,qko.qhpkk.rqopbqtee.btpk.hzqyhpwo.bqtuknqwk.pes
Tuqpunko.rqene.ukqpqofl.qvpc.,qht .qpqefbbzqktbphqinr.qifkqphenwk
wjphbtulhzqonk,qjpe.qwv..atulqrnfubqko.qi.ubqfawkr.pesqTqwpvqa.nah.
wkrfllhtulqwonr.vprbw,qpubqo.prbqko.trqwjr.petulqpubqwonfktulqyptukhz
pinc.qko.qw..kotulqpubqrnprqnyqko.qEprktpu’wqjnhhpaw.s

Ynrqpqene.ukqTqo..b.bqunkotulqnyqko.qo.pk,qynrlnkqko.qapk.ukqu..bqny
w.hy-ar.w.rcpktnusqTqwahpwo.bqkornfloqko.qkfefhkfnfwqvpk.r,qafwotul
pwtb.qpqepuqtuqihpj qknqbnqwn,qfukthqTqjnfhbqw..qrnfubqko.qi.ubsqOphyqp
bnd.uqb.w.rk.bqinpkwqatkjo.bqpteh.wwhzqfanuqko.qjnuyfwtnuqnyqko.qvpc.ws
Ko.qyphh.uqEprktpuqjpe.qtuknqwtlokqbnvuwkr.pe,qhztulqpjrnwwqko.qrtc.r,
pubqynrqko.qenwkqaprkqwfie.rl.bs

Kotj qjhnfbwqnyqwk.peqv.r.qanfrtulqnyyqko.qvr.j pl.,qpubqkornfloqko.
kfefhkfnfwhzqvotrhtulqvtwawqTqjnfhbqw..,qtuk.retkk.ukhzqpubqcplf.hz,
ko.qltlpuktjqhteiwqjofrutulqko.qvpk.rqpubqyhtultulqpqwahpwoqpubqwarpz
nyqefbqpubqyrnkoqtuknqko.qptrsqKo.qk.ukpjh.wqwvpz.bqpubqwkrfj qht .
htctulqprew,qpub,qwpc.qynrqko.qo.hah.wwqafranw.h.wwu.wwqnyqko.w.
enc.e.ukw,qtkqvpwqpwqtyqwne.qvnfub.bqkotulqv.r.qwkrfllhtulqynrqtkwqhty.
petbqko.qvpc.wsq.unrenfwqxfpuktkt.wqnyqpqrfbbz-irnvuqyhftbqv.r.
wafrktulqfaqtuquntwzqg.kwqnfkqnyqko.qepjotu.s

Ezqpkk.uktnuqvpwqbtc.rk.bqyrneqkotwqb.pkoqyhfrrzqizqpqyfrtnfwqz.hhtul,
ht .qkopkqnyqko.qkotulqjphh.bqpqwtr.uqtuqnfrqepufypjkfrtulqknvuwsqP
epu,q u..-b..aqu.prqko.qknvtulqapko,qwonfk.bqtupfbtihzqknqe.qpub
antuk.bsqHnn tulqipj ,qTqwpvqko.qnko.rqEprktpuwqpbcpujtulqvtkoqltlpuktj
wkrtb.wqbnvuqko.qrtc.ripu qyrneqko.qbtr.jktnuqnyqJo.rkw.zsqKo.
Wo.aa.rknuqlfuwqwan .qkotwqkte.qfupcpthtulhzs

PkqkopkqTqbfj .bqpkqnuj.qfub.rqvpk.r,qpub,qonhbtulqezqir.pkoqfukth
enc.e.ukqvpwqpuqplnuz,qihfub.r.bqaptuyfhhzqpo.pbqfub.rqko.qwfrypj.qpw
hnulqpwqTqjnfhbsqKo.qvpk.rqvpwqtuqpqkfefhkqpinfkqe.,qpubqrpatbhz
lrnvtulqonkk.rs

Vo.uqynrqpqene.ukqTqrptw.bqezqo.pbqknqkp .qir.pkoqpubqkornvqko.qoptr
pubqvpk.rqyrneqezq.z.w,qko.qwk.peqvpwqrtwtulqtuqpqvotrhtulqvotk.qynl
kopkqpkqytrwkqotbqko.qEprktpuwqphknl.ko.rsqKo.quntw.qvpwqb.py.utuls
Ko.uqTqwpvqko.eqbtehz,qjnhnwwphqytlfr.wqnyqlr.z,qeplutyt.bqizqko.qetwks
Ko.zqopbqapww.bqizqe.,qpubqkvnqv.r.qwknnatulqnc.rqko.qyrnkotul,
kfefhkfnfwqrftuwqnyqko.trqjnerpb.s

Ko.qkotrbqpubqynfrkoqwknnbqi.wtb.qoteqtuqko.qvpk.r,qnu.qa.ropawqkvn
ofubr.bqzprbwqyrneqe.,qko.qnko.rqknvprbwqHph.opesqKo.ql.u.rpknrwqnyqko.
O.pk-Rpzwqvpc.bqotlo,qpubqko.qotwwtulqi.pewqwenk.qbnvuqkotwqvpzqpub
kopks

Ko.qptrqvpwqyfhhqnyqwnfub,qpqb.py.utulqpubqjnuyfwtulqjnuyhtjkqny
untw.w—ko.qjhpulnrnfwqbtuqnyqko.qEprktpuw,qko.qjrpwoqnyqyphhtulqonfw.w,
ko.qkofbqnyqkr..w,qy.uj.w,qwo.bwqyhpwotulqtuknqyhpe.,qpubqko.qjrpj htul
pubqrnprtulqnyqytr.sqB.uw.qihpj qwen .qvpwqh.patulqfaqknqetulh.qvtko
ko.qwk.peqyrneqko.qrtc.r,qpubqpwqko.qO.pk-Rpzqv.ukqknqpubqyrnqnc.r
V.zirtbl.qtkwqteapjkqvpwqepr .bqizqyhpwo.wqnyqtujpub.wj.ukqvotk.,qkopk
lpc.qahpj.qpkqnuj.qknqpqwen zqbpuj.qnyqhfrtbqyhpe.wsqKo.qu.pr.rqonfw.w
wkthhqwknnbqtukpjk,qpvptktulqko.trqypk.,qwopbnvz,qyptukqpubqaphhtbqtu
ko.qwk.pe,qvtkoqko.qytr.qi.otubqko.eqlntulqknqpubqyrns

Ynrqpqene.ukqa.ropawqTqwknnbqko.r.,qir.pwk-otloqtuqko.qphenwkqinthtul
vpk.r,qbfeiynfub.bqpkqezqanwtktnu,qona.h.wwqnyq.wjpa.sqKornfloqko.qr.. 
Tqjnfhbqw..qko.qa.nah.qvonqopbqi..uqvtkoqe.qtuqko.qrtc.rqwjrpeihtulqnfk
nyqko.qvpk.rqkornfloqko.qr..bw,qht .qhtkkh.qyrnlwqofrrztulqkornflo
lrpwwqyrneqko.qpbcpuj.qnyqpqepu,qnrqrfuutulqknqpubqyrnqtuqfkk.rqbtwepz
nuqko.qknvtulqapkos

Ko.uqwfbb.uhzqko.qvotk.qyhpwo.wqnyqko.qO.pk-Rpzqjpe.qh.patulqknvprbw
e.sqKo.qonfw.wqjpc.bqtuqpwqko.zqbtwwnhc.bqpkqtkwqknfjo,qpubqbprk.bqnfk
yhpe.w;qko.qkr..wqjopul.bqknqytr.qvtkoqpqrnprsqKo.qRpzqyhtj .r.bqfaqpub
bnvuqko.qknvtulqapko,qhtj tulqnyyqko.qa.nah.qvonqrpuqkotwqvpzqpubqkopk,
pubqjpe.qbnvuqknqko.qvpk.r’wq.bl.qunkqytykzqzprbwqyrneqvo.r.qTqwknnbs
Tkqwv.akqpjrnwwqko.qrtc.rqknqWo.aa.rknu,qpubqko.qvpk.rqtuqtkwqkrpj 
rnw.qtuqpqinthtulqv.phqjr.wk.bqvtkoqwk.pesqTqkfru.bqwonr.vprbs

Tuqpunko.rqene.ukqko.qofl.qvpc.,qv.hh-utloqpkqko.qinthtul-antukqopb
rfwo.bqfanuqe.sqTqwjr.pe.bqphnfb,qpubqwjphb.b,qophyqihtub.b,qplnutw.b,
Tqwkpll.r.bqkornfloqko.qh.patul,qotwwtulqvpk.rqknvprbwqko.qwonr.sqOpb
ezqynnkqwkfeih.b,qtkqvnfhbqopc.qi..uqko.q.ubsqTqy.hhqo.hah.wwhz,qtu
yfhhqwtlokqnyqko.qEprktpuw,qfanuqko.qirnpb,qipr.qlrpc.hhzqwatkqkopk
rfuwqbnvuqknqepr qko.qpulh.qnyqko.qV.zqpubqKope.wsqTq.ma.jk.bqunkotul
ifkqb.pkos

Tqopc.qpqbteqe.enrzqnyqko.qynnkqnyqpqEprktpuqjnetulqbnvuqvtkotuqpqwjnr.
nyqzprbwqnyqezqo.pb,qbrtctulqwkrptlokqtuknqko.qhnnw.qlrpc.h,qvotrhtul
tkqkotwqvpzqpubqkopkqpubqhtyktulqplptu;qnyqpqhnulqwfwa.uw.,qpubqko.uqny
ko.qynfrqjprrztulqko.qb.irtwqnyqko.trqjnerpb.qi.kv..uqko.e,qunvqjh.pr
pubqko.uqar.w.ukhzqyptukqkornfloqpqc.thqnyqwen .,qr.j.btul
tuk.retupihz,qpwqtkqw..e.bqknqe.,qpjrnwwqpqcpwkqwapj.qnyqrtc.rqpub
e.pbnvsqPubqko.u,qc.rzqwhnvhz,qTqr.phtw.bqkopkqizqpqetrpjh.qTqopb
.wjpa.bs


MTTTs

ONVqTqY.HHqTUqVTKOqKO.qJFRPK.s

Pyk.rql.kktulqkotwqwfbb.uqh.wwnuqtuqko.qanv.rqnyqk.rr.wkrtphqv.panuw,
ko.qEprktpuwqr.kr.pk.bqknqko.trqnrtltuphqanwtktnuqfanuqOnrw.hhqJneenu;
pubqtuqko.trqopwk.,qpubq.ujfei.r.bqvtkoqko.qb.irtwqnyqko.trqwepwo.b
jneaputnu,qko.zqunqbnfikqnc.rhnn .bqepuzqwfjoqpqwkrpzqpubqu.lhtltih.
ctjkteqpwqezw.hysqOpbqko.zqh.ykqko.trqjnerpb.qpubqafwo.bqnuqynrkovtko,
ko.r.qvpwqunkotulqpkqkopkqkte.qi.kv..uqko.eqpubqHnubnuqifkqipkk.rt.wqny
kv.hc.-anfub.rqlfuw,qpubqko.zqvnfhbqj.rkptuhzqopc.qr.pjo.bqko.qjpatkph
tuqpbcpuj.qnyqko.qktbtulwqnyqko.trqpaarnpjo;qpwqwfbb.u,qbr.pbyfh,qpub
b.wkrfjktc.qko.trqpbc.ukqvnfhbqopc.qi..uqpwqko.q.prkoxfp .qkopk
b.wkrnz.bqHtwinuqpqj.ukfrzqplns

Ifkqko.zqv.r.qtuqunqofrrzsqJzhtub.rqynhhnv.bqjzhtub.rqnuqtkw
tuk.rahpu.kprzqyhtlok;q.c.rzqkv.ukz-ynfrqonfrwqirnflokqko.e
r.tuynrj.e.uksqPubqe.puvoth.qko.qethtkprzqpubqupcphqpfkonrtkt.w,qunv
yfhhzqphtc.qknqko.qkr.e.ubnfwqanv.rqnyqko.trqpukplnutwkw,qvnr .bqvtko
yfrtnfwq.u.rlzsq.c.rzqetufk.qpqyr.woqlfuqjpe.qtuknqanwtktnuqfukth,
i.ynr.qkvthtlok,q.c.rzqjnaw.,q.c.rzqrnvqnyqwfifripuqcthhpwqnuqko.qothhz
whna.wqpinfkq tulwknuqpubqRtjoenub,qepw .bqpuq.ma.jkpukqihpj qefddh.s
Pubqkornfloqko.qjoprr.bqpubqb.wnhpk.bqpr.p—a.ropawqkv.ukzqwxfpr.qeth.w
phknl.ko.r—kopkq.ujtrjh.bqko.qEprktpuq.ujpeae.ukqnuqOnrw.hhqJneenu,
kornfloqjoprr.bqpubqrftu.bqcthhpl.wqpenulqko.qlr..uqkr..w,qkornfloqko.
ihpj .u.bqpubqwen tulqprjpb.wqkopkqopbqi..uqifkqpqbpzqplnqatu.
watuu.zw,qjrpvh.bqko.qb.cnk.bqwjnfkwqvtkoqko.qo.htnlrpaowqkopkqv.r.
ar.w.ukhzqknqvpruqko.qlfuu.rwqnyqko.qEprktpuqpaarnpjosqIfkqko.qEprktpuw
unvqfub.rwknnbqnfrqjneepubqnyqprkthh.rzqpubqko.qbpul.rqnyqofepu
arnmtetkz,qpubqunkqpqepuqc.ukfr.bqvtkotuqpqeth.qnyq.tko.rqjzhtub.r,
wpc.qpkqko.qartj.qnyqotwqhty.s

Tkqvnfhbqw..eqkopkqko.w.qltpukwqwa.ukqko.q.prht.rqaprkqnyqko.qpyk.runnu
tuqlntulqknqpubqyrn,qkrpuwy.rrtulq.c.rzkotulqyrneqko.qw.jnubqpubqkotrb
jzhtub.rw—ko.qw.jnubqtuqPbbh.wknu.qLnhyqHtu wqpubqko.qkotrbqpk
Azrynrb—knqko.trqnrtltuphqatkqnuqOnrw.hhqJneenusqNc.rqkopk,qpinc.qko.
ihpj .u.bqo.pko.rqpubqrftu.bqifthbtulwqkopkqwkr.kjo.bqyprqpubqvtb.,
wknnbqnu.qpwqw.uktu.h,qvoth.qko.qr.wkqpipubnu.bqko.trqcpwk
ytloktul-epjotu.wqpubqb.wj.ub.bqtuknqko.qatksqKo.zqv.r.qoprbqpkqvnr 
ko.r.qyprqtuknqko.qutlok,qpubqko.qknv.rtulqathhprqnyqb.uw.qlr..uqwen .
kopkqrnw.qko.r.yrneqjnfhbqi.qw..uqyrneqko.qothhwqpinfkqE.rrnv,qpub
.c.u,qtkqtwqwptb,qyrneqIpuwk.pbqpubq.awneqBnvuws

Pubqvoth.qko.qEprktpuwqi.otubqe.qv.r.qkofwqar.aprtulqynrqko.trqu.mk
wphhz,qpubqtuqyrnukqnyqe.qOfeputkzqlpko.r.bqynrqko.qipkkh.,qTqepb.qez
vpzqvtkoqtuytutk.qaptuwqpubqhpinfrqyrneqko.qytr.qpubqwen .qnyqifrutul
V.zirtbl.qknvprbwqHnubnus

Tqwpvqpuqpipubnu.bqinpk,qc.rzqwephhqpubqr.enk.,qbrtyktulqbnvu-wkr.pe;
pubqkornvtulqnyyqko.qenwkqnyqezqwnbb.uqjhnko.w,qTqv.ukqpyk.rqtk,qlptu.b
tk,qpubqwnq.wjpa.bqnfkqnyqkopkqb.wkrfjktnusqKo.r.qv.r.qunqnprwqtuqko.
inpk,qifkqTqjnukrtc.bqknqapbbh.,qpwqv.hhqpwqezqaprinth.bqopubwqvnfhb
phhnv,qbnvuqko.qrtc.rqknvprbwqOphhtynrbqpubqVphknu,qlntulqc.rz
k.btnfwhzqpubqjnuktufphhzqhnn tulqi.otubqe.,qpwqznfqepzqv.hh
fub.rwkpubsqTqynhhnv.bqko.qrtc.r,qi.jpfw.qTqjnuwtb.r.bqkopkqko.qvpk.r
lpc.qe.qezqi.wkqjopuj.qnyq.wjpa.qwonfhbqko.w.qltpukwqr.kfrus

Ko.qonkqvpk.rqyrneqko.qEprktpu’wqnc.rkornvqbrtyk.bqbnvuwkr.peqvtkoqe.,
wnqkopkqynrqko.qi.wkqaprkqnyqpqeth.qTqjnfhbqw..qhtkkh.qnyq.tko.rqipu s
Nuj.,qonv.c.r,qTqepb.qnfkqpqwkrtulqnyqihpj qytlfr.wqofrrztulqpjrnwwqko.
e.pbnvwqyrneqko.qbtr.jktnuqnyqV.zirtbl.sqOphhtynrb,qtkqw..e.b,qvpw
b.w.rk.b,qpubqw.c.rphqnyqko.qonfw.wqypjtulqko.qrtc.rqv.r.qnuqytr.sqTk
vpwqwkrpul.qknqw..qko.qahpj.qxftk.qkrpuxfth,qxftk.qb.wnhpk.qfub.rqko.
onkqihf.qw z,qvtkoqko.qwen .qpubqhtkkh.qkor.pbwqnyqyhpe.qlntulqwkrptlok
faqtuknqko.qo.pkqnyqko.qpyk.runnusqU.c.rqi.ynr.qopbqTqw..uqonfw.w
ifrutulqvtkonfkqko.qpjjneapute.ukqnyqpuqniwkrfjktc.qjrnvbsqPqhtkkh.
yprko.rqnuqko.qbrzqr..bwqfaqko.qipu qv.r.qwen tulqpubqlhnvtul,qpubqp
htu.qnyqytr.qtuhpubqvpwqeprjotulqwk.pbthzqpjrnwwqpqhpk.qyt.hbqnyqopzs

Ynrqpqhnulqkte.qTqbrtyk.b,qwnqaptuyfhqpubqv.przqvpwqTqpyk.rqko.
ctnh.uj.qTqopbqi..uqkornflo,qpubqwnqtuk.uw.qko.qo.pkqfanuqko.qvpk.rs
Ko.uqezqy.prwqlnkqko.qi.kk.rqnyqe.qplptu,qpubqTqr.wfe.bqezqapbbhtuls
Ko.qwfuqwjnrjo.bqezqipr.qipj sqPkqhpwk,qpwqko.qirtbl.qpkqVphknuqvpw
jnetulqtuknqwtlokqrnfubqko.qi.ub,qezqy.c.rqpubqyptuku.wwqnc.rjpe.qez
y.prw,qpubqTqhpub.bqnuqko.qEtbbh.w.mqipu qpubqhpzqbnvu,qb.pbhzqwtj ,
petbqko.qhnulqlrpwwsqTqwfaanw.qko.qkte.qvpwqko.uqpinfkqynfrqnrqytc.
n’jhnj sqTqlnkqfaqar.w.ukhz,qvph .bqa.ropawqophyqpqeth.qvtkonfkqe..ktul
pqwnfh,qpubqko.uqhpzqbnvuqplptuqtuqko.qwopbnvqnyqpqo.bl.sqTqw..eqkn
r.e.ei.rqkph tul,qvpub.rtulhz,qknqezw.hyqbfrtulqkopkqhpwkqwafrksqTqvpw
phwnqc.rzqkotrwkz,qpubqitkk.rhzqr.lr.kyfhqTqopbqbrfu qunqenr.qvpk.rsqTk
twqpqjfrtnfwqkotulqkopkqTqy.hkqpulrzqvtkoqezqvty.;qTqjpuunkqpjjnfukqynr
tk,qifkqezqteank.ukqb.wtr.qknqr.pjoqH.pko.ro.pbqvnrrt.bqe.q.mj.wwtc.hzs

Tqbnqunkqjh.prhzqr.e.ei.rqko.qprrtcphqnyqko.qjfrpk.,qwnqkopkqarnipihzqT
bnd.bsqTqi.jpe.qpvpr.qnyqoteqpwqpqw.pk.bqytlfr.qtuqwnnk-wefbl.bqwotrk
wh..c.w,qpubqvtkoqotwqfakfru.b,qjh.pu-wopc.uqypj.qwkprtulqpkqpqyptuk
yhtj .rtulqkopkqbpuj.bqnc.rqko.qw zsqKo.qw zqvpwqvopkqtwqjphh.bqp
epj .r.hqw z—rnvwqpubqrnvwqnyqyptukqbnvu-ahfe.wqnyqjhnfb,qgfwkqktuk.b
vtkoqko.qetbwfee.rqwfuw.ks

Tqwpkqfa,qpubqpkqko.qrfwkh.qnyqezqenktnuqo.qhnn .bqpkqe.qxftj hzs

“Opc.qznfqpuzqvpk.r?”qTqpw .bqpirfakhzs

O.qwonn qotwqo.pbs

“Znfqopc.qi..uqpw tulqynrqvpk.rqynrqko.qhpwkqonfr,”qo.qwptbs

Ynrqpqene.ukqv.qv.r.qwth.uk,qkp tulqwknj qnyq.pjoqnko.rsqTqbpr.qwpzqo.
ynfubqe.qpqwkrpul.q.unfloqytlfr.,qup .b,qwpc.qynrqezqvpk.r-wnp .b
krnfw.rwqpubqwnj w,qwjphb.b,qpubqezqypj.qpubqwonfhb.rwqihpj .u.bqizqko.
wen .sqOtwqypj.qvpwqpqyptrqv.p u.ww,qotwqjotuqr.kr.pk.b,qpubqotwqoptr
hpzqtuqjrtwa,qphenwkqyhpm.uqjfrhwqnuqotwqhnvqynr.o.pb;qotwq.z.wqv.r.
rpko.rqhprl.,qaph.qihf.,qpubqihpu hzqwkprtulsqO.qwan .qpirfakhz,
hnn tulqcpjpukhzqpvpzqyrneqe.s

“Vopkqbn.wqtkqe.pu?”qo.qwptbsq“Vopkqbnqko.w.qkotulwqe.pu?”

Tqwkpr.bqpkqoteqpubqepb.qunqpuwv.rs

O.q.mk.ub.bqpqkotuqvotk.qopubqpubqwan .qtuqphenwkqpqjneahptutulqknu.s

“Vozqpr.qko.w.qkotulwqa.retkk.b?qVopkqwtuwqopc.qv.qbnu.?qKo.qenrutul
w.rctj.qvpwqnc.r,qTqvpwqvph tulqkornfloqko.qrnpbwqknqjh.prqezqirptuqynr
ko.qpyk.runnu,qpubqko.u—ytr.,q.prkoxfp .,qb.pko!qPwqtyqtkqv.r.qWnbne
pubqLnenrrpo!qPhhqnfrqvnr qfubnu.,qphhqko.qvnr ——qVopkqpr.qko.w.
Eprktpuw?”

“Vopkqpr.qv.?”qTqpuwv.r.b,qjh.prtulqezqkornpks

O.qlrtaa.bqotwq u..wqpubqkfru.bqknqhnn qpkqe.qplptusqYnrqophyqpqetufk.,
a.ropaw,qo.qwkpr.bqwth.ukhzs

“Tqvpwqvph tulqkornfloqko.qrnpbwqknqjh.prqezqirptu,”qo.qwptbsq“Pub
wfbb.uhz—ytr.,q.prkoxfp .,qb.pko!”

O.qr.hpaw.bqtuknqwth.uj.,qvtkoqotwqjotuqunvqwfu .uqphenwkqknqotwq u..ws

Ar.w.ukhzqo.qi.lpuqvpctulqotwqopubs

“Phhqko.qvnr —phhqko.qWfubpzqwjonnhw—Vopkqopc.qv.qbnu.—vopkqopw
V.zirtbl.qbnu.?q.c.rzkotulqlnu.—.c.rzkotulqb.wkrnz.bsqKo.qjofrjo!qV.
r.ifthkqtkqnuhzqkor..qz.prwqplnsqLnu.!qWv.akqnfkqnyq.mtwk.uj.!qVoz?”

Punko.rqapfw.,qpubqo.qirn .qnfkqplptuqht .qnu.qb.e.uk.bs

“Ko.qwen .qnyqo.rqifrutulqln.koqfaqynrq.c.rqpubq.c.r!”qo.qwonfk.bs

Otwq.z.wqyhpe.b,qpubqo.qantuk.bqpqh.puqytul.rqtuqko.qbtr.jktnuqny
V.zirtbl.s

Izqkotwqkte.qTqvpwqi.ltuutulqknqkp .qotwqe.pwfr.sqKo.qkr.e.ubnfw
krpl.bzqtuqvotjoqo.qopbqi..uqtucnhc.b—tkqvpwq.ctb.ukqo.qvpwqpqyfltktc.
yrneqV.zirtbl.—opbqbrtc.uqoteqknqko.qc.rzqc.rl.qnyqotwqr.pwnus

“Pr.qv.qyprqyrneqWfuifrz?”qTqwptb,qtuqpqepkk.r-ny-ypjkqknu.s

“Vopkqpr.qv.qknqbn?”qo.qpw .bsq“Pr.qko.w.qjr.pkfr.wq.c.rzvo.r.?qOpwqko.
.prkoqi..uqltc.uqnc.rqknqko.e?”

“Pr.qv.qyprqyrneqWfuifrz?”

“NuhzqkotwqenrutulqTqnyytjtpk.bqpkq.prhzqj.h.irpktnu——”

“Kotulwqopc.qjopul.b,”qTqwptb,qxft.khzsq“Znfqefwkq ..aqznfrqo.pbsqKo.r.
twqwkthhqona.s”

“Ona.!”

“Z.wsqAh.uktyfhqona.—ynrqphhqkotwqb.wkrfjktnu!”

Tqi.lpuqknq.mahptuqezqct.vqnyqnfrqanwtktnusqO.qhtwk.u.bqpkqytrwk,qifk
pwqTqv.ukqnuqko.qtuk.r.wkqbpvutulqtuqotwq.z.wqlpc.qahpj.qknqko.tr
ynre.rqwkpr.,qpubqotwqr.lprbqvpub.r.bqyrneqe.s

“Kotwqefwkqi.qko.qi.ltuutulqnyqko.q.ub,”qo.qwptb,qtuk.rrfaktulqe.sq“Ko.
.ub!qKo.qlr.pkqpubqk.rrtih.qbpzqnyqko.qHnrb!qVo.uqe.uqwophhqjphhqfanu
ko.qenfukptuwqpubqko.qrnj wqknqyphhqfanuqko.eqpubqotb.qko.e—otb.qko.e
yrneqko.qypj.qnyqOteqkopkqwtkk.koqfanuqko.qkornu.!”

Tqi.lpuqknqfub.rwkpubqko.qanwtktnusqTqj.pw.bqezqhpinfr.bqr.pwnutul,
wkrfllh.bqknqezqy..k,qpub,qwkpubtulqnc.rqote,qhptbqezqopubqnuqotw
wonfhb.rs

“I.qpqepu!”qwptbqTsq“Znfqpr.qwjpr.bqnfkqnyqznfrqvtkw!qVopkqlnnbqtw
r.htltnuqtyqtkqjnhhpaw.wqfub.rqjphpetkz?qKotu qnyqvopkq.prkoxfp .wqpub
yhnnbw,qvprwqpubqcnhjpun.w,qopc.qbnu.qi.ynr.qknqe.u!qBtbqznfqkotu qLnb
opbq.m.eak.bqV.zirtbl.?qO.qtwqunkqpuqtuwfrpuj.qpl.uks”

Ynrqpqkte.qo.qwpkqtuqihpu qwth.uj.s

“Ifkqonvqjpuqv.q.wjpa.?”qo.qpw .b,qwfbb.uhzsq“Ko.zqpr.qtucfhu.rpih.,
ko.zqpr.qatkth.wws”

“U.tko.rqko.qnu.qunr,qa.ropaw,qko.qnko.r,”qTqpuwv.r.bsq“Pubqko.
etlokt.rqko.zqpr.qko.qenr.qwpu.qpubqvprzqwonfhbqv.qi.sqNu.qnyqko.eqvpw
 thh.bqznub.rqunkqkor..qonfrwqplns”

“ thh.b!”qo.qwptb,qwkprtulqpinfkqotesq“OnvqjpuqLnb’wqetutwk.rwqi.
 thh.b?”

“Tqwpvqtkqopaa.us”qTqarnj..b.bqknqk.hhqotesq“V.qopc.qjopuj.bqknqjne.qtu
ynrqko.qkotj qnyqtk,”qwptbqT,q“pubqkopkqtwqphhs”

“Vopkqtwqkopkqyhtj .rqtuqko.qw z?”qo.qpw .bqpirfakhzs

Tqknhbqoteqtkqvpwqko.qo.htnlrpaoqwtluphhtul—kopkqtkqvpwqko.qwtluqny
ofepuqo.haqpubq.yynrkqtuqko.qw zs

“V.qpr.qtuqko.qetbwkqnyqtk,”qTqwptb,q“xft.kqpwqtkqtwsqKopkqyhtj .rqtu
ko.qw zqk.hhwqnyqko.qlpko.rtulqwknresqZnub.r,qTqkp .qtkqpr.qko.
Eprktpuw,qpubqHnubnuvprb,qvo.r.qkonw.qothhwqrtw.qpinfkqRtjoenubqpub
 tulwknuqpubqko.qkr..wqltc.qjnc.r,q.prkovnr wqpr.qi.tulqkornvuqfaqpub
lfuwqpr.qi.tulqahpj.bsqAr.w.ukhzqko.qEprktpuwqvthhqi.qjnetulqkotwqvpz
plptus”

Pubq.c.uqpwqTqwan .qo.qwarpulqknqotwqy..kqpubqwknaa.bqe.qizqpql.wkfr.s

“Htwk.u!”qo.qwptbs

Yrneqi.znubqko.qhnvqothhwqpjrnwwqko.qvpk.rqjpe.qko.qbfhhqr.wnupuj.qny
btwkpukqlfuwqpubqpqr.enk.qv.trbqjrztulsqKo.uq.c.rzkotulqvpwqwkthhsqP
jnj jopy.rqjpe.qbrnutulqnc.rqko.qo.bl.qpubqapwkqfwsqOtloqtuqko.qv.wk
ko.qjr.wj.ukqennuqofulqyptukqpubqaph.qpinc.qko.qwen .qnyqV.zirtbl.qpub
Wo.aa.rknuqpubqko.qonk,qwkthhqwah.ubnfrqnyqko.qwfuw.ks

“V.qopbqi.kk.rqynhhnvqkotwqapko,”qTqwptb,q“unrkovprbs”


MTCs

TUqHNUBNUs

Ezqznful.rqirnko.rqvpwqtuqHnubnuqvo.uqko.qEprktpuwqy.hhqpkqVn tulsqO.
vpwqpqe.btjphqwkfb.ukqvnr tulqynrqpuqteetu.ukq.mpetupktnu,qpubqo.qo.prb
unkotulqnyqko.qprrtcphqfukthqWpkfrbpzqenrutulsqKo.qenrutulqapa.rwqnu
Wpkfrbpzqjnukptu.b,qtuqpbbtktnuqknqh.ulkozqwa.jtphqprktjh.wqnuqko.
ahpu.kqEprw,qnuqhty.qtuqko.qahpu.kw,qpubqwnqynrko,qpqirt.yqpubqcplf.hz
vnrb.bqk.h.lrpe,qphhqko.qenr.qwkrt tulqynrqtkwqir.ctkzs

Ko.qEprktpuw,qphpre.bqizqko.qpaarnpjoqnyqpqjrnvb,qopbq thh.bqpqufei.r
nyqa.nah.qvtkoqpqxftj -ytrtulqlfu,qwnqko.qwknrzqrpusqKo.qk.h.lrpe
jnujhfb.bqvtkoqko.qvnrbw:q“Ynretbpih.qpwqko.zqw..eqknqi.,qko.qEprktpuw
opc.qunkqenc.bqyrneqko.qatkqtuknqvotjoqko.zqopc.qyphh.u,qpub,qtub..b,
w..eqtujpapih.qnyqbntulqwnsqArnipihzqkotwqtwqbf.qknqko.qr.hpktc.
wkr.ulkoqnyqko.q.prko’wqlrpctkpktnuphq.u.rlzs”qNuqkopkqhpwkqk.mkqko.tr
h.pb.r-vrtk.rq.mapub.bqc.rzqjneynrktulhzs

Nyqjnfrw.qphhqko.qwkfb.ukwqtuqko.qjrpee.r’wqitnhnlzqjhpww,qknqvotjoqez
irnko.rqv.ukqkopkqbpz,qv.r.qtuk.uw.hzqtuk.r.wk.b,qifkqko.r.qv.r.qun
wtluwqnyqpuzqfufwfphq.mjtk.e.ukqtuqko.qwkr..kwsqKo.qpyk.runnuqapa.rw
afyy.bqwjrpawqnyqu.vwqfub.rqitlqo.pbhtu.wsqKo.zqopbqunkotulqknqk.hh
i.znubqko.qenc.e.ukwqnyqkrnnawqpinfkqko.qjneenu,qpubqko.qifrutulqnyqko.
atu.qvnnbwqi.kv..uqVn tulqpubqV.zirtbl.,qfukthq.tloksqKo.uqko.q_Wks
Gpe.w’wqLpd.kk._,qtuqpuq.mkrp-wa.jtphq.btktnu,qpuunfuj.bqko.qipr.qypjk
nyqko.qtuk.rrfaktnuqnyqk.h.lrpaotjqjneefutjpktnusqKotwqvpwqkonflokqkn
i.qbf.qknqko.qyphhtulqnyqifrutulqatu.qkr..wqpjrnwwqko.qhtu.sqUnkotul
enr.qnyqko.qytloktulqvpwq unvuqkopkqutlok,qko.qutlokqnyqezqbrtc.qkn
H.pko.ro.pbqpubqipj s

Ezqirnko.rqy.hkqunqpumt.kzqpinfkqfw,qpwqo.q u.vqyrneqko.qb.wjrtaktnuqtu
ko.qapa.rwqkopkqko.qjzhtub.rqvpwqpqlnnbqkvnqeth.wqyrneqezqonfw.sqO.
epb.qfaqotwqetubqknqrfuqbnvuqkopkqutlokqknqe.,qtuqnrb.r,qpwqo.qwpzw,qkn
w..qko.qKotulwqi.ynr.qko.zqv.r.q thh.bsqO.qbtwapkjo.bqpqk.h.lrpe,qvotjo
u.c.rqr.pjo.bqe.,qpinfkqynfrqn’jhnj ,qpubqwa.ukqko.q.c.utulqpkqpqefwtj
ophhs

TuqHnubnu,qphwn,qnuqWpkfrbpzqutlokqko.r.qvpwqpqkofub.rwknre,qpubqez
irnko.rqr.pjo.bqVpk.rhnnqtuqpqjpisqNuqko.qahpkynreqyrneqvotjoqko.
etbutlokqkrptuqfwfphhzqwkprkwqo.qh.pru.b,qpyk.rqwne.qvptktul,qkopkqpu
pjjtb.ukqar.c.uk.bqkrptuwqyrneqr.pjotulqVn tulqkopkqutloksqKo.qupkfr.
nyqko.qpjjtb.ukqo.qjnfhbqunkqpwj.rkptu;qtub..b,qko.qrpthvpzqpfkonrtkt.w
btbqunkqjh.prhzq unvqpkqkopkqkte.sqKo.r.qvpwqc.rzqhtkkh.q.mjtk.e.ukqtu
ko.qwkpktnu,qpwqko.qnyytjtphw,qypthtulqknqr.phtw.qkopkqpuzkotulqyfrko.r
kopuqpqir.p bnvuqi.kv..uqIzyh..kqpubqVn tulqgfujktnuqopbqnjjfrr.b,qv.r.
rfuutulqko.qko.pkr.qkrptuwqvotjoqfwfphhzqapww.bqkornfloqVn tulqrnfubqiz
CtrltutpqVpk.rqnrqLfthbynrbsqKo.zqv.r.qifwzqep tulqko.qu.j.wwprz
prrpul.e.ukwqknqphk.rqko.qrnfk.qnyqko.qWnfkopeaknuqpubqAnrkwenfko
WfubpzqH.plf.q.mjfrwtnuwsqPqunjkfruphqu.vwapa.rqr.anrk.r,qetwkp tulqez
irnko.rqynrqko.qkrpyytjqepupl.r,qknqvoneqo.qi.prwqpqwhtlokqr.w.eihpuj.,
vpzhptbqpubqkrt.bqknqtuk.rct.vqotesqY.vqa.nah.,q.mj.aktulqko.qrpthvpz
nyytjtphw,qjnuu.jk.bqko.qir.p bnvuqvtkoqko.qEprktpuws

Tqopc.qr.pb,qtuqpunko.rqpjjnfukqnyqko.w.q.c.ukw,qkopkqnuqWfubpzqenrutul
“phhqHnubnuqvpwq.h.jkrtyt.bqizqko.qu.vwqyrneqVn tuls”qPwqpqepkk.rqny
ypjk,qko.r.qvpwqunkotulqknqgfwktyzqkopkqc.rzq.mkrpcplpukqaorpw.sqAh.ukz
nyqHnubnu.rwqbtbqunkqo.prqnyqko.qEprktpuwqfukthqko.qaputjqnyqEnubpz
enrutulsqKonw.qvonqbtbqknn qwne.qkte.qknqr.phtw.qphhqkopkqko.qopwkthz
vnrb.bqk.h.lrpewqtuqko.qWfubpzqapa.rwqjnuc.z.bsqKo.qepgnrtkzqnyqa.nah.
tuqHnubnuqbnqunkqr.pbqWfubpzqapa.rws

Ko.qopitkqnyqa.rwnuphqw.jfrtkz,qenr.nc.r,qtwqwnqb..ahzqytm.bqtuqko.
Hnubnu.r’wqetub,qpubqwkprkhtulqtuk.hhtl.uj.qwnqefjoqpqepkk.rqnyqjnfrw.
tuqko.qapa.rw,qkopkqko.zqjnfhbqr.pbqvtkonfkqpuzqa.rwnuphqkr.enrw:
“Pinfkqw.c.uqn’jhnj qhpwkqutlokqko.qEprktpuwqjpe.qnfkqnyqko.qjzhtub.r,
pub,qenctulqpinfkqfub.rqpuqprenfrqnyqe.kphhtjqwot.hbw,qopc.qjneah.k.hz
vr.j .bqVn tulqwkpktnuqvtkoqko.qpbgpj.ukqonfw.w,qpubqepwwpjr.bqpu
.uktr.qipkkphtnuqnyqko.qJprbtlpuqR.lte.uksqUnqb.kpthwqpr.q unvusqEpmtew
opc.qi..uqpiwnhfk.hzqfw.h.wwqplptuwkqko.trqprenfr;qko.qyt.hbqlfuwqopc.
i..uqbtwpih.bqizqko.esqYhztulqofwwprwqopc.qi..uqlphhnatulqtukn
Jo.rkw.zsqKo.qEprktpuwqpaa.prqknqi.qenctulqwhnvhzqknvprbwqJo.rkw.zqnr
VtubwnrsqLr.pkqpumt.kzqar.cpthwqtuqV.wkqWfrr.z,qpubq.prkovnr wqpr.
i.tulqkornvuqfaqknqjo.j qko.qpbcpuj.qHnubnuvprbs”qKopkqvpwqonvqko.
_WfubpzqWfu_qafkqtk,qpubqpqjh.c.rqpubqr.epr pihzqarneakq“opubinn ”
prktjh.qtuqko.q_R.y.r.._qjneapr.bqko.qpyyptrqknqpqe.upl.rt.qwfbb.uhz
h.kqhnnw.qtuqpqcthhpl.s

Unqnu.qtuqHnubnuq u.vqanwtktc.hzqnyqko.qupkfr.qnyqko.qprenfr.b
Eprktpuw,qpubqko.r.qvpwqwkthhqpqytm.bqtb.pqkopkqko.w.qenuwk.rwqefwkqi.
whflltwo:q“jrpvhtul,”q“jr..atulqaptuyfhhz”—wfjoq.mar.wwtnuwqnjjfrr.bqtu
phenwkqphhqko.q.prht.rqr.anrkwsqUnu.qnyqko.qk.h.lrpewqjnfhbqopc.qi..u
vrtkk.uqizqpuq.z.vtku.wwqnyqko.trqpbcpuj.sqKo.qWfubpzqapa.rwqartuk.b
w.aprpk.q.btktnuwqpwqyfrko.rqu.vwqjpe.qknqopub,qwne.q.c.uqtuqb.ypfhkqny
tksqIfkqko.r.qvpwqarpjktjphhzqunkotulqenr.qknqk.hhqa.nah.qfukthqhpk.qtu
ko.qpyk.runnu,qvo.uqko.qpfkonrtkt.wqlpc.qko.qar.wwqpl.ujt.wqko.qu.vwqtu
ko.trqanww.wwtnusqTkqvpwqwkpk.bqkopkqko.qa.nah.qnyqVphknuqpub
V.zirtbl.,qpubqphhqko.qbtwkrtjkqv.r.qanfrtulqphnulqko.qrnpbw
Hnubnuvprb,qpubqkopkqvpwqphhs

Ezqirnko.rqv.ukqknqjofrjoqpkqko.qYnfubhtulqOnwatkphqtuqko.qenrutul,
wkthhqtuqtlunrpuj.qnyqvopkqopbqopaa.u.bqnuqko.qar.ctnfwqutloksqKo.r.qo.
o.prbqphhfwtnuwqepb.qknqko.qtucpwtnu,qpubqpqwa.jtphqarpz.rqynrqa.pj.s
Jnetulqnfk,qo.qinflokqpq_R.y.r.._sqO.qi.jpe.qphpre.bqpkqko.qu.vwqtu
kotw,qpubqv.ukqplptuqknqVpk.rhnnqwkpktnuqknqytubqnfkqtyqjneefutjpktnu
v.r.qr.wknr.bsqKo.qneutifw.w,qjprrtpl.w,qjzjhtwkw,qpubqtuufe.rpih.
a.nah.qvph tulqtuqko.trqi.wkqjhnko.wqw..e.bqwjprj.hzqpyy.jk.bqizqko.
wkrpul.qtuk.hhtl.uj.qkopkqko.qu.vwc.ubnrwqv.r.qbtww.etupktulsqA.nah.
v.r.qtuk.r.wk.b,qnr,qtyqphpre.b,qphpre.bqnuhzqnuqpjjnfukqnyqko.qhnjph
r.wtb.ukwsqPkqko.qwkpktnuqo.qo.prbqynrqko.qytrwkqkte.qkopkqko.qVtubwnr
pubqJo.rkw.zqhtu.wqv.r.qunvqtuk.rrfak.bsqKo.qanrk.rwqknhbqoteqkopk
w.c.rphqr.epr pih.qk.h.lrpewqopbqi..uqr.j.tc.bqtuqko.qenrutulqyrne
Izyh..kqpubqJo.rkw.zqwkpktnuw,qifkqkopkqko.w.qopbqpirfakhzqj.pw.bsqEz
irnko.rqjnfhbql.kqc.rzqhtkkh.qar.jtw.qb.kpthqnfkqnyqko.es

“Ko.r.’wqytloktulqlntulqnuqpinfkqV.zirtbl.”qvpwqko.q.mk.ukqnyqko.tr
tuynrepktnus

Ko.qkrptuqw.rctj.qvpwqunvqc.rzqefjoqbtwnrlputw.bsqXftk.qpqufei.rqny
a.nah.qvonqopbqi..uq.ma.jktulqyrt.ubwqyrneqahpj.wqnuqko.qWnfko-V.wk.ru
u.kvnr qv.r.qwkpubtulqpinfkqko.qwkpktnusqNu.qlr.z-o.pb.bqnhbql.ukh.epu
jpe.qpubqpifw.bqko.qWnfko-V.wk.ruqJneapuzqitkk.rhzqknqezqirnko.rsq“Tk
vpukwqwonvtulqfa,”qo.qwptbs

Nu.qnrqkvnqkrptuwqjpe.qtuqyrneqRtjoenub,qAfku.z,qpubq tulwknu,
jnukptutulqa.nah.qvonqopbqlnu.qnfkqynrqpqbpz’wqinpktulqpubqynfubqko.
hnj wqjhnw.bqpubqpqy..htulqnyqaputjqtuqko.qptrsqPqepuqtuqpqihf.qpub
votk.qihpd.rqpbbr.ww.bqezqirnko.r,qyfhhqnyqwkrpul.qktbtulws

“Ko.r.’wqonwkwqnyqa.nah.qbrtctulqtuknq tulwknuqtuqkrpawqpubqjprkwqpub
kotulw,qvtkoqinm.wqnyqcphfpih.wqpubqphhqkopk,”qo.qwptbsq“Ko.zqjne.qyrne
Enh.w.zqpubqV.zirtbl.qpubqVphknu,qpubqko.zqwpzqko.r.’wqi..uqlfuwqo.prb
pkqJo.rkw.z,qo.pczqytrtul,qpubqkopkqenfuk.bqwnhbt.rwqopc.qknhbqko.eqkn
l.kqnyyqpkqnuj.qi.jpfw.qko.qEprktpuwqpr.qjnetulsqV.qo.prbqlfuwqytrtul
pkqOpeaknuqJnfrkqwkpktnu,qifkqv.qkonflokqtkqvpwqkofub.rsqVopkqko.
btj .uwqbn.wqtkqphhqe.pu?qKo.qEprktpuwqjpu’kql.kqnfkqnyqko.trqatk,qjpu
ko.z?”

Ezqirnko.rqjnfhbqunkqk.hhqotes

Pyk.rvprbwqo.qynfubqkopkqko.qcplf.qy..htulqnyqphpreqopbqwar.pbqknqko.
jht.ukwqnyqko.qfub.rlrnfubqrpthvpz,qpubqkopkqko.qWfubpzq.mjfrwtnutwkw
i.lpuqknqr.kfruqyrneqphhqnc.rqko.qWnfko-V.wk.ruq“hful”—Ipru.w,
Vteih.bnu,qRtjoenubqApr ,q .v,qpubqwnqynrko—pkqfuupkfrphhzq.prhzqonfrw;
ifkqunkqpqwnfhqopbqpuzkotulqenr.qkopuqcplf.qo.prwpzqknqk.hhqnys
.c.rznu.qjnuu.jk.bqvtkoqko.qk.retufwqw..e.bqthh-k.ea.r.bs

Pinfkqytc.qn’jhnj qko.qlpko.rtulqjrnvbqtuqko.qwkpktnuqvpwqtee.uw.hz
.mjtk.bqizqko.qna.utulqnyqko.qhtu.qnyqjneefutjpktnu,qvotjoqtwqphenwk
tucprtpihzqjhnw.b,qi.kv..uqko.qWnfko-.pwk.ruqpubqko.qWnfko-V.wk.ru
wkpktnuw,qpubqko.qapwwpl.qnyqjprrtpl.qkrfj wqi.prtulqofl.qlfuwqpub
jprrtpl.wqjrpee.bqvtkoqwnhbt.rwsqKo.w.qv.r.qko.qlfuwqkopkqv.r.qirnflok
faqyrneqVnnhvtjoqpubqJopkopeqknqjnc.rq tulwknusqKo.r.qvpwqpuq.mjopul.
nyqah.pwpukrt.w:q“Znf’hhql.kq.pk.u!”q“V.’r.qko.qi.pwk-kpe.rw!”qpubqwn
ynrkosqPqhtkkh.qvoth.qpyk.rqkopkqpqwxfpbqnyqanhtj.qjpe.qtuknqko.
wkpktnuqpubqi.lpuqknqjh.prqko.qafihtjqnyyqko.qahpkynrew,qpubqezqirnko.r
v.ukqnfkqtuknqko.qwkr..kqplptus

Ko.qjofrjoqi.hhwqv.r.qrtultulqynrq.c.uwnul,qpubqpqwxfpbqnyqWphcpktnu
Prezqhpwwt.wqjpe.qwtultulqbnvuqVpk.rhnnqRnpbsqNuqko.qirtbl.qpqufei.rqny
hnpy.rwqv.r.qvpkjotulqpqjfrtnfwqirnvuqwjfeqkopkqjpe.qbrtyktulqbnvuqko.
wkr.peqtuqapkjo.wsqKo.qwfuqvpwqgfwkqw.kktul,qpubqko.qJhnj qKnv.rqpub
ko.qOnfw.wqnyqAprhtpe.ukqrnw.qplptuwkqnu.qnyqko.qenwkqa.pj.yfhqw t.wqtk
twqanwwtih.qknqtepltu.,qpqw zqnyqlnhb,qiprr.bqvtkoqhnulqkrpuwc.rw.
wkrta.wqnyqr.bbtwo-afrah.qjhnfbsqKo.r.qvpwqkph qnyqpqyhnpktulqinbzsqNu.
nyqko.qe.uqko.r.,qpqr.w.rctwkqo.qwptbqo.qvpw,qknhbqezqirnko.rqo.qopb
w..uqko.qo.htnlrpaoqyhtj .rtulqtuqko.qv.wks

TuqV.hhtulknuqWkr..kqezqirnko.rqe.kqpqjnfah.qnyqwkfrbzqrnflowqvonqopb
gfwkqi..uqrfwo.bqnfkqnyqYh..kqWkr..kqvtkoqwkthh-v.kqu.vwapa.rwqpub
wkprtulqahpjprbwsq“Br.pbyfhqjpkpwkrnao.!”qko.zqipvh.bqnu.qknqko.qnko.r
bnvuqV.hhtulknuqWkr..ksq“YtloktulqpkqV.zirtbl.!qYfhhqb.wjrtaktnu!
R.afhw.qnyqko.qEprktpuw!qHnubnuqtuqBpul.r!”qO.qopbqknqltc.qkor..a.uj.
ynrqpqjnazqnyqkopkqapa.rs

Ko.uqtkqvpw,qpubqko.uqnuhz,qkopkqo.qr.phtw.bqwne.kotulqnyqko.qyfhh
anv.rqpubqk.rrnrqnyqko.w.qenuwk.rwsqO.qh.pru.bqkopkqko.zqv.r.qunk
e.r.hzqpqopubyfhqnyqwephhqwhflltwoqjr.pkfr.w,qifkqkopkqko.zqv.r.qetubw
wvpztulqcpwkqe.joputjphqinbt.w;qpubqkopkqko.zqjnfhbqenc.qwvtykhzqpub
wetk.qvtkoqwfjoqanv.rqkopkq.c.uqko.qetlokt.wkqlfuwqjnfhbqunkqwkpub
plptuwkqko.es

Ko.zqv.r.qb.wjrti.bqpwq“cpwkqwatb.rht .qepjotu.w,qu.prhzqpqofubr.bqy..k
otlo,qjpapih.qnyqko.qwa..bqnyqpuq.mar.wwqkrptu,qpubqpih.qknqwonnkqnfkqp
i.peqnyqtuk.uw.qo.pks”qEpw .bqipkk.rt.w,qjot.yhzqnyqyt.hbqlfuw,qopb
i..uqahpuk.bqtuqko.qjnfukrzqpinfkqOnrw.hhqJneenu,qpubq.wa.jtphhz
i.kv..uqko.qVn tulqbtwkrtjkqpubqHnubnusqYtc.qnyqko.qepjotu.wqopbqi..u
w..uqenctulqknvprbwqko.qKope.w,qpubqnu.,qizqpqopaazqjopuj.,qopbqi..u
b.wkrnz.bsqTuqko.qnko.rqjpw.wqko.qwo.hhwqopbqetww.b,qpubqko.qipkk.rt.w
opbqi..uqpkqnuj.qpuutothpk.bqizqko.qO.pk-RpzwsqO.pczqhnww.wqnyqwnhbt.rw
v.r.qe.uktnu.b,qifkqko.qknu.qnyqko.qbtwapkjoqvpwqnaktetwktjs

Ko.qEprktpuwqopbqi..uqr.afhw.b;qko.zqv.r.qunkqtucfhu.rpih.sqKo.zqopb
r.kr.pk.bqknqko.trqkrtpulh.qnyqjzhtub.rwqplptu,qtuqko.qjtrjh.qpinfk
Vn tulsqWtluphh.rwqvtkoqo.htnlrpaowqv.r.qafwotulqynrvprbqfanuqko.eqyrne
phhqwtb.wsqLfuwqv.r.qtuqrpatbqkrpuwtkqyrneqVtubwnr,qAnrkwenfko,
Phb.rwonk,qVnnhvtjo—.c.uqyrneqko.qunrko;qpenulqnko.rw,qhnulqvtr.-lfuw
nyqutu.kz-ytc.qknuwqyrneqVnnhvtjosqPhknl.ko.rqnu.qofubr.bqpubqwtmk..u
v.r.qtuqanwtktnuqnrqi.tulqopwkthzqahpj.b,qjot.yhzqjnc.rtulqHnubnus
U.c.rqi.ynr.qtuq.ulhpubqopbqko.r.qi..uqwfjoqpqcpwkqnrqrpatb
jnuj.ukrpktnuqnyqethtkprzqepk.rtphs

Puzqyfrko.rqjzhtub.rwqkopkqy.hh,qtkqvpwqona.b,qjnfhbqi.qb.wkrnz.bqpk
nuj.qizqotloq.mahnwtc.w,qvotjoqv.r.qi.tulqrpatbhzqepufypjkfr.bqpub
btwkrtifk.bsqUnqbnfik,qrpuqko.qr.anrk,qko.qwtkfpktnuqvpwqnyqko.
wkrpul.wkqpubqlrpc.wkqb.wjrtaktnu,qifkqko.qafihtjqvpwq.monrk.bqknqpcntb
pubqbtwjnfrpl.qaputjsqUnqbnfikqko.qEprktpuwqv.r.qwkrpul.qpubqk.rrtih.
tuqko.q.mkr.e.,qifkqpkqko.qnfkwtb.qko.r.qjnfhbqunkqi.qenr.qkopuqkv.ukz
nyqko.eqplptuwkqnfrqethhtnuws

Ko.qpfkonrtkt.wqopbqr.pwnuqknqwfaanw.,qyrneqko.qwtd.qnyqko.qjzhtub.rw,
kopkqpkqko.qnfkwtb.qko.r.qjnfhbqunkqi.qenr.qkopuqytc.qtuq.pjo
jzhtub.r—ytyk..uqphknl.ko.rsqPubqnu.qpkqh.pwkqvpwqbtwanw.bqny—a.ropaw
enr.sqKo.qafihtjqvnfhbqi.qyptrhzqvpru.bqnyqko.qpaarnpjoqnyqbpul.r,qpub
.hpinrpk.qe.pwfr.wqv.r.qi.tulqkp .uqynrqko.qarnk.jktnuqnyqko.qa.nah.qtu
ko.qkor.pk.u.bqwnfkov.wk.ruqwfifriwsqPubqwn,qvtkoqr.tk.rpk.bqpwwfrpuj.w
nyqko.qwpy.kzqnyqHnubnuqpubqko.qpithtkzqnyqko.qpfkonrtkt.wqknqjna.qvtko
ko.qbtyytjfhkz,qkotwqxfpwt-arnjhpepktnuqjhnw.bs

Kotwqvpwqartuk.bqtuq.unrenfwqkza.qnuqapa.rqwnqyr.woqkopkqtkqvpwqwkthh
v.k,qpubqko.r.qopbqi..uqunqkte.qknqpbbqpqvnrbqnyqjnee.uksqTkqvpw
jfrtnfw,qezqirnko.rqwptb,qknqw..qonvqrfkoh.wwhzqko.qfwfphqjnuk.ukwqny
ko.qapa.rqopbqi..uqopj .bqpubqkp .uqnfkqknqltc.qkotwqahpj.s

PhhqbnvuqV.hhtulknuqWkr..kqa.nah.qjnfhbqi.qw..uqyhfkk.rtulqnfkqko.qatu 
wo..kwqpubqr.pbtul,qpubqko.qWkrpubqvpwqwfbb.uhzquntwzqvtkoqko.qcntj.w
nyqpuqprezqnyqopv .rwqynhhnvtulqko.w.qatnu..rwsqE.uqjpe.qwjrpeihtulqnyy
ifw.wqknqw.jfr.qjnat.wsqJ.rkptuhzqkotwqu.vwq.mjtk.bqa.nah.qtuk.uw.hz,
vopk.c.rqko.trqar.ctnfwqpapkozsqKo.qwofkk.rwqnyqpqepaqwonaqtuqko.
Wkrpubqv.r.qi.tulqkp .uqbnvu,qezqirnko.rqwptb,qpubqpqepuqtuqotwqWfubpz
rpte.uk,qh.enu-z.hhnvqlhnc.wq.c.u,qvpwqctwtih.qtuwtb.qko.qvtubnv
opwkthzqypwk.utulqepawqnyqWfrr.zqknqko.qlhpwws

Lntulqnuqphnulqko.qWkrpubqknqKrpyphlprqWxfpr.,qko.qapa.rqtuqotwqopub,
ezqirnko.rqwpvqwne.qnyqko.qyfltktc.wqyrneqV.wkqWfrr.zsqKo.r.qvpwqpqepu
vtkoqotwqvty.qpubqkvnqinzwqpubqwne.qprktjh.wqnyqyfrutkfr.qtuqpqjprk
wfjoqpwqlr..ulrnj.rwqfw.sqO.qvpwqbrtctulqyrneqko.qbtr.jktnuqny
V.wketuwk.rqIrtbl.;qpubqjhnw.qi.otubqoteqjpe.qpqopzqvpllnuqvtkoqytc.qnr
wtmqr.wa.jkpih.-hnn tulqa.nah.qtuqtk,qpubqwne.qinm.wqpubqifubh.wsqKo.
ypj.wqnyqko.w.qa.nah.qv.r.qopllprb,qpubqko.trq.uktr.qpaa.prpuj.
jnukrpwk.bqjnuwatjfnfwhzqvtkoqko.qWpiipko-i.wkqpaa.prpuj.qnyqko.qa.nah.
nuqko.qneutifw.wsqA.nah.qtuqypwotnupih.qjhnkotulqa..a.bqpkqko.eqnfkqny
jpiwsqKo.zqwknaa.bqpkqko.qWxfpr.qpwqtyqfub.jtb.bqvotjoqvpzqknqkp .,qpub
ytuphhzqkfru.bq.pwkvprbqphnulqko.qWkrpubsqWne.qvpzqi.otubqko.w.qjpe.qp
epuqtuqvnr bpzqjhnko.w,qrtbtulqnu.qnyqkonw.qnhb-ypwotnu.bqkrtjzjh.w
vtkoqpqwephhqyrnukqvo..hsqO.qvpwqbtrkzqpubqvotk.qtuqko.qypj.s

Ezqirnko.rqkfru.bqbnvuqknvprbwqCtjknrtp,qpubqe.kqpqufei.rqnyqwfjo
a.nah.sqO.qopbqpqcplf.qtb.pqkopkqo.qetlokqw..qwne.kotulqnyqe.sqO.
unktj.bqpuqfufwfphqufei.rqnyqanhtj.qr.lfhpktulqko.qkrpyytjsqWne.qnyqko.
r.yfl..wqv.r.q.mjopultulqu.vwqvtkoqko.qa.nah.qnuqko.qneutifw.wsqNu.qvpw
arny.wwtulqknqopc.qw..uqko.qEprktpuwsq“Inth.rwqnuqwkthkw,qTqk.hhqznf,
wkrtbtulqphnulqht .qe.us”qEnwkqnyqko.eqv.r.q.mjtk.bqpubqputepk.bqiz
ko.trqwkrpul.q.ma.rt.uj.s

I.znubqCtjknrtpqko.qafihtj-onfw.wqv.r.qbntulqpqhtc.hzqkrpb.qvtkoqko.w.
prrtcphwsqPkqphhqko.qwkr..kqjnru.rwqlrnfawqnyqa.nah.qv.r.qr.pbtul
apa.rw,qkph tulq.mjtk.bhz,qnrqwkprtulqpkqko.w.qfufwfphqWfubpzqctwtknrws
Ko.zqw..e.bqknqtujr.pw.qpwqutlokqbr.vqnu,qfukthqpkqhpwkqko.qrnpbw,qez
irnko.rqwptb,qv.r.qht .q.awneqOtloqWkr..kqnuqpqB.rizqBpzsqEzqirnko.r
pbbr.ww.bqw.c.rphqnyqko.w.qyfltktc.wqpubqlnkqfuwpktwypjknrzqpuwv.rw
yrneqenwks

Unu.qnyqko.eqjnfhbqk.hhqoteqpuzqu.vwqnyqVn tulq.mj.akqnu.qepu,qvon
pwwfr.bqoteqkopkqVn tulqopbqi..uq.uktr.hzqb.wkrnz.bqnuqko.qar.ctnfw
utloks

“Tqjne.qyrneqIzyh..k,”qo.qwptb;q“pqepuqnuqpqitjzjh.qjpe.qkornfloqko.
ahpj.qtuqko.q.prhzqenrutul,qpubqrpuqyrneqbnnrqknqbnnrqvprutulqfwqkn
jne.qpvpzsqKo.uqjpe.qwnhbt.rwsqV.qv.ukqnfkqknqhnn ,qpubqko.r.qv.r.
jhnfbwqnyqwen .qknqko.qwnfko—unkotulqifkqwen .,qpubqunkqpqwnfhqjnetul
kopkqvpzsqKo.uqv.qo.prbqko.qlfuwqpkqJo.rkw.z,qpubqynh wqjnetulqyrne
V.zirtbl.sqWnqT’c.qhnj .bqfaqezqonfw.qpubqjne.qnus”

Pkqkopkqkte.qko.r.qvpwqpqwkrnulqy..htulqtuqko.qwkr..kwqkopkqko.
pfkonrtkt.wqv.r.qknqihpe.qynrqko.trqtujpapjtkzqknqbtwanw.qnyqko.
tucpb.rwqvtkonfkqphhqkotwqtujnuc.ut.uj.s

Pinfkq.tlokqn’jhnj qpquntw.qnyqo.pczqytrtulqvpwqbtwktujkhzqpfbtih.qphh
nc.rqko.qwnfkoqnyqHnubnusqEzqirnko.rqjnfhbqunkqo.prqtkqynrqko.qkrpyytj
tuqko.qeptuqkonrnfloypr.w,qifkqizqwkrt tulqkornfloqko.qxft.kqipj 
wkr..kwqknqko.qrtc.rqo.qvpwqpih.qknqbtwktulftwoqtkqxftk.qahptuhzs

O.qvph .bqyrneqV.wketuwk.rqknqotwqpaprke.ukwqu.prqR.l.uk’wqApr ,qpinfk
kvnsqO.qvpwqunvqc.rzqpumtnfwqnuqezqpjjnfuk,qpubqbtwkfri.bqpkqko.
.ctb.ukqeplutkfb.qnyqko.qkrnfih.sqOtwqetubqvpwqtujhtu.bqknqrfu,q.c.uqpw
etu.qopbqrfuqnuqWpkfrbpz,qnuqethtkprzqb.kpthwsqO.qkonflokqnyqphhqkonw.
wth.uk,q.ma.jkpukqlfuw,qnyqko.qwfbb.uhzqunepbtjqjnfukrzwtb.;qo.qkrt.b
knqtepltu.q“inth.rwqnuqwkthkw”qpqofubr.bqy..kqotlos

Ko.r.qv.r.qnu.qnrqkvnqjprkhnpbwqnyqr.yfl..wqapwwtulqphnulqNmynrb
Wkr..k,qpubqw.c.rphqtuqko.qEprzh.inu.qRnpb,qifkqwnqwhnvhzqvpwqko.qu.vw
war.pbtulqkopkqR.l.ukqWkr..kqpubqAnrkhpubqAhpj.qv.r.qyfhhqnyqko.tr
fwfphqWfubpz-utlokqarne.upb.rw,qphi.tkqko.zqkph .bqtuqlrnfaw,qpubqphnul
ko.q.bl.qnyqR.l.uk’wqApr qko.r.qv.r.qpwqepuzqwth.ukqjnfah.wq“vph tul
nfk”qknl.ko.rqfub.rqko.qwjpkk.r.bqlpwqhpeawqpwq.c.rqko.r.qopbqi..usqKo.
utlokqvpwqvpreqpubqwkthh,qpubqpqhtkkh.qnaar.wwtc.;qko.qwnfubqnyqlfuw
jnuktuf.bqtuk.retkk.ukhz,qpubqpyk.rqetbutlokqko.r.qw..e.bqknqi.qwo..k
htlokutulqtuqko.qwnfkos

O.qr.pbqpubqr.-r.pbqko.qapa.r,qy.prtulqko.qvnrwkqopbqopaa.u.bqknqe.sqO.
vpwqr.wkh.ww,qpubqpyk.rqwfaa.rqarnvh.bqnfkqplptuqpteh.wwhzsqO.qr.kfru.b
pubqkrt.bqtuqcptuqknqbtc.rkqotwqpkk.uktnuqknqotwq.mpetupktnuqunk.wsqO.
v.ukqknqi.bqpqhtkkh.qpyk.rqetbutlok,qpubqvpwqpvp .u.bqyrneqhfrtbqbr.pew
tuqko.qwephhqonfrwqnyqEnubpzqizqko.qwnfubqnyqbnnrq unj .rw,qy..k
rfuutulqtuqko.qwkr..k,qbtwkpukqbrfeetul,qpubqpqjhpenfrqnyqi.hhwsqR.b
r.yh.jktnuwqbpuj.bqnuqko.qj.thtulsqYnrqpqene.ukqo.qhpzqpwknutwo.b,
vnub.rtulqvo.ko.rqbpzqopbqjne.qnrqko.qvnrhbqlnu.qepbsqKo.uqo.qgfea.b
nfkqnyqi.bqpubqrpuqknqko.qvtubnvs

Otwqrnneqvpwqpuqpkktjqpubqpwqo.qkorfwkqotwqo.pbqnfk,qfaqpubqbnvuqko.
wkr..kqko.r.qv.r.qpqbnd.uq.jon.wqknqko.quntw.qnyqotwqvtubnvqwpwo,qpub
o.pbwqtuq.c.rzq tubqnyqutlokqbtwprrpzqpaa.pr.bsq.uxftrt.wqv.r.qi.tul
wonfk.bsq“Ko.zqpr.qjnetul!”qipvh.bqpqanhtj.epu,qopee.rtulqpkqko.qbnnr;
“ko.qEprktpuwqpr.qjnetul!”qpubqofrrt.bqknqko.qu.mkqbnnrs

Ko.qwnfubqnyqbrfeetulqpubqkrfea.ktulqjpe.qyrneqko.qPhipuzqWkr..k
Iprrpj w,qpubq.c.rzqjofrjoqvtkotuq.prwonkqvpwqoprbqpkqvnr q thhtul
wh..aqvtkoqpqc.o.e.ukqbtwnrb.rhzqknjwtusqKo.r.qvpwqpquntw.qnyqbnnrw
na.utul,qpubqvtubnvqpyk.rqvtubnvqtuqko.qonfw.wqnaanwtk.qyhpwo.bqyrne
bpr u.wwqtuknqz.hhnvqthhfetupktnus

Faqko.qwkr..kqjpe.qlphhnatulqpqjhnw.bqjprrtpl.,qifrwktulqpirfakhzqtukn
untw.qpkqko.qjnru.r,qrtwtulqknqpqjhpkk.rtulqjhtepmqfub.rqko.qvtubnv,
pubqbztulqpvpzqwhnvhzqtuqko.qbtwkpuj.sqJhnw.qnuqko.qr.prqnyqkotwqjpe.qp
jnfah.qnyqjpiw,qko.qynr.rfuu.rwqnyqpqhnulqarnj.wwtnuqnyqyhztul
c.otjh.w,qlntulqynrqko.qenwkqaprkqknqJoph qYpreqwkpktnu,qvo.r.qko.
Unrko-V.wk.ruqwa.jtphqkrptuwqv.r.qhnpbtulqfa,qtuwk.pbqnyqjnetulqbnvu
ko.qlrpbt.ukqtuknq.fwknus

Ynrqpqhnulqkte.qezqirnko.rqwkpr.bqnfkqnyqko.qvtubnvqtuqihpu 
pwknutwoe.uk,qvpkjotulqko.qanhtj.e.uqopee.rtulqpkqbnnrqpyk.rqbnnr,qpub
b.htc.rtulqko.trqtujnear.o.uwtih.qe.wwpl.sqKo.uqko.qbnnrqi.otubqote
na.u.b,qpubqko.qepuqvonqhnbl.bqpjrnwwqko.qhpubtulqjpe.qtu,qbr.ww.bqnuhz
tuqwotrk,qkrnfw.rw,qpubqwhtaa.rw,qotwqirpj.wqhnnw.qpinfkqotwqvptwk,qotw
optrqbtwnrb.r.bqyrneqotwqathhnvs

“Vopkqko.qb.cthqtwqtk?”qo.qpw .bsq“Pqytr.?qVopkqpqb.cthqnyqpqrnv!”

Ko.zqinkoqjrpu.bqko.trqo.pbwqnfkqnyqko.qvtubnv,qwkrptutulqknqo.prqvopk
ko.qanhtj.e.uqv.r.qwonfktulsqA.nah.qv.r.qjnetulqnfkqnyqko.qwtb.
wkr..kw,qpubqwkpubtulqtuqlrnfawqpkqko.qjnru.rwqkph tuls

“Vopkqko.qb.cthqtwqtkqphhqpinfk?”qwptbqezqirnko.r’wqy.hhnvqhnbl.rs

Ezqirnko.rqpuwv.r.bqoteqcplf.hzqpubqi.lpuqknqbr.ww,qrfuutulqvtkoq.pjo
lpre.ukqknqko.qvtubnvqtuqnrb.rqknqetwwqunkotulqnyqko.qlrnvtul
.mjtk.e.uksqPubqar.w.ukhzqe.uqw.hhtulqfuupkfrphhzq.prhzqu.vwapa.rwqjpe.
ipvhtulqtuknqko.qwkr..k:

“Hnubnuqtuqbpul.rqnyqwfyynjpktnu!qKo.q tulwknuqpubqRtjoenubqb.y.uj.w
ynrj.b!qY.pryfhqepwwpjr.wqtuqko.qKope.wqCphh.z!”

Pubqphhqpinfkqote—tuqko.qrnnewqi.hnv,qtuqko.qonfw.wqnuq.pjoqwtb.qpub
pjrnwwqko.qrnpb,qpubqi.otubqtuqko.qApr qK.rrpj.wqpubqtuqko.qofubr.b
nko.rqwkr..kwqnyqkopkqaprkqnyqEprzh.inu.,qpubqko.qV.wkinfru.qApr 
btwkrtjkqpubqWksqApujrpw,qpubqv.wkvprbqpubqunrkovprbqtuq thifruqpubqWks
Gnou’wqVnnbqpubqOpeawk.pb,qpubq.pwkvprbqtuqWonr.btkjoqpubqOtloifrzqpub
Opll.rwknuqpubqOnmknu,qpub,qtub..b,qkornfloqphhqko.qcpwku.wwqnyqHnubnu
yrneq.phtulqknq.pwkqOpe—a.nah.qv.r.qrfiitulqko.trq.z.w,qpubqna.utul
vtubnvwqknqwkpr.qnfkqpubqpw qpteh.wwqxf.wktnuw,qbr.wwtulqopwkthzqpwqko.
ytrwkqir.pkoqnyqko.qjnetulqwknreqnyqY.prqih.vqkornfloqko.qwkr..kwsqTk
vpwqko.qbpvuqnyqko.qlr.pkqaputjsqHnubnu,qvotjoqopbqlnu.qknqi.bqnu
Wfubpzqutlokqnihtctnfwqpubqtu.rk,qvpwqpvp .u.b,qtuqko.qwephhqonfrwqny
Enubpzqenrutul,qknqpqctctbqw.uw.qnyqbpul.rs

Fupih.qyrneqotwqvtubnvqknqh.pruqvopkqvpwqopaa.utul,qezqirnko.rqv.uk
bnvuqpubqnfkqtuknqko.qwkr..k,qgfwkqpwqko.qw zqi.kv..uqko.qaprpa.kwqny
ko.qonfw.wqlr.vqatu qvtkoqko.q.prhzqbpvusqKo.qyhztulqa.nah.qnuqynnkqpub
tuqc.otjh.wqlr.vqenr.qufe.rnfwq.c.rzqene.uksq“Ihpj qWen .!”qo.qo.prb
a.nah.qjrztul,qpubqplptuq“Ihpj qWen .!”qKo.qjnukpltnuqnyqwfjoqp
fuputenfwqy.prqvpwqtu.ctkpih.sqPwqezqirnko.rqo.wtkpk.bqnuqko.
bnnr-wk.a,qo.qwpvqpunko.rqu.vwc.ubnrqpaarnpjotul,qpubqlnkqpqapa.r
ynrkovtkosqKo.qepuqvpwqrfuutulqpvpzqvtkoqko.qr.wk,qpubqw.hhtulqotw
apa.rwqynrqpqwothhtulq.pjoqpwqo.qrpu—pqlrnk.wxf.qetulhtulqnyqarnytkqpub
aputjs

Pubqyrneqkotwqapa.rqezqirnko.rqr.pbqkopkqjpkpwkrnaotjqbtwapkjoqnyqko.
Jneepub.r-tu-Jot.y:

“Ko.qEprktpuwqpr.qpih.qknqbtwjoprl.q.unrenfwqjhnfbwqnyqpqihpj qpub
antwnunfwqcpanfrqizqe.puwqnyqrnj .kwsqKo.zqopc.qwenko.r.bqnfr
ipkk.rt.w,qb.wkrnz.bqRtjoenub,q tulwknu,qpubqVteih.bnu,qpubqpr.
pbcpujtulqwhnvhzqknvprbwqHnubnu,qb.wkrnztulq.c.rzkotulqnuqko.qvpzsqTk
twqteanwwtih.qknqwknaqko.esqKo.r.qtwqunqwpy.kzqyrneqko.qIhpj qWen .qifk
tuqtuwkpukqyhtloks”


Kopkqvpwqphh,qifkqtkqvpwq.unflosqKo.qvonh.qanafhpktnuqnyqko.qlr.pk
wtm-ethhtnuqjtkzqvpwqwktrrtul,qwhtaatul,qrfuutul;qar.w.ukhzqtkqvnfhbqi.
anfrtulq_.uqepww._qunrkovprbs

“Ihpj qWen .!”qko.qcntj.wqjrt.bsq“Ytr.!”

Ko.qi.hhwqnyqko.qu.tloinfrtulqjofrjoqepb.qpqgpulhtulqkfefhk,qpqjprk
jpr.h.wwhzqbrtc.uqwepwo.b,qpetbqwort. wqpubqjfrw.w,qplptuwkqko.qvpk.r
krnfloqfaqko.qwkr..ksqWtj hzqz.hhnvqhtlokwqv.ukqknqpubqyrnqtuqko.
onfw.w,qpubqwne.qnyqko.qapwwtulqjpiwqyhpfuk.bqfu.mktulftwo.bqhpeawsqPub
nc.ro.pbqko.qbpvuqvpwqlrnvtulqirtlok.r,qjh.prqpubqwk.pbzqpubqjphes

O.qo.prbqynnkwk.awqrfuutulqknqpubqyrnqtuqko.qrnnew,qpubqfaqpubqbnvu
wkptrwqi.otubqotesqOtwqhpubhpbzqjpe.qknqko.qbnnr,qhnnw.hzqvrpaa.bqtu
br.wwtulqlnvuqpubqwopvh;qo.rqofwipubqynhhnv.b,q.gpjfhpktuls

Pwqezqirnko.rqi.lpuqknqr.phtw.qko.qteanrkqnyqphhqko.w.qkotulw,qo.
kfru.bqopwkthzqknqotwqnvuqrnne,qafkqphhqotwqpcpthpih.qenu.z—wne.qk.u
anfubwqphknl.ko.r—tuknqotwqanj .kw,qpubqv.ukqnfkqplptuqtuknqko.
wkr..kws


MCs

VOPKqOPBqOPAA.U.BqTUqWFRR.Zs

Tkqvpwqvoth.qko.qjfrpk.qopbqwpkqpubqkph .bqwnqvthbhzqknqe.qfub.rqko.
o.bl.qtuqko.qyhpkqe.pbnvwqu.prqOphhtynrb,qpubqvoth.qezqirnko.rqvpw
vpkjotulqko.qyfltktc.wqwkr.peqnc.rqV.wketuwk.rqIrtbl.,qkopkqko.
Eprktpuwqopbqr.wfe.bqko.qnyy.uwtc.sqWnqyprqpwqnu.qjpuqpwj.rkptuqyrne
ko.qjnuyhtjktulqpjjnfukwqkopkqopc.qi..uqafkqynrko,qko.qepgnrtkzqnyqko.e
r.eptu.bqifwt.bqvtkoqar.aprpktnuwqtuqko.qOnrw.hhqatkqfukthqutu.qkopk
utlok,qofrrztulqnuqwne.qna.rpktnuqkopkqbtw.ulpl.bqofl.qcnhfe.wqnyqlr..u
wen .s

Ifkqkor..qj.rkptuhzqjpe.qnfkqpinfkq.tlokqn’jhnj qpub,qpbcpujtulqwhnvhz
pubqjpfktnfwhz,qepb.qko.trqvpzqkornfloqIzyh..kqpubqAzrynrbqknvprbw
Rtah.zqpubqV.zirtbl.,qpubqwnqjpe.qtuqwtlokqnyqko.q.ma.jkpukqipkk.rt.w
plptuwkqko.qw.kktulqwfusqKo.w.qEprktpuwqbtbqunkqpbcpuj.qtuqpqinbz,qifk
tuqpqhtu.,q.pjoqa.ropawqpqeth.qpubqpqophyqyrneqotwqu.pr.wkqy.hhnvsqKo.z
jneefutjpk.bqvtkoqnu.qpunko.rqizqe.puwqnyqwtr.uht .qonvhw,qrfuutulqfa
pubqbnvuqko.qwjph.qyrneqnu.qunk.qknqpunko.rs

Tkqvpwqkotwqonvhtulqpubqytrtulqnyqko.qlfuwqpkqRtah.zqpubqWksqL.nrl.’w
Othhqkopkqv.qopbqo.prbqpkqFaa.rqOphhtynrbsqKo.qRtah.zqlfuu.rw,
fuw.pwnu.bqprkthh.rzqcnhfuk..rwqvonqnflokqu.c.rqknqopc.qi..uqahpj.bqtu
wfjoqpqanwtktnu,qytr.bqnu.qvthb,qar.epkfr.,qtu.yy.jkfphqcnhh.z,qpub
inhk.bqnuqonrw.qpubqynnkqkornfloqko.qb.w.rk.bqcthhpl.,qvoth.qko.
Eprktpu,qvtkonfkqfwtulqotwqO.pk-Rpz,qvph .bqw.r.u.hzqnc.rqko.trqlfuw,
wk.aa.bqltul.rhzqpenulqko.e,qapww.bqtuqyrnukqnyqko.e,qpubqwnqjpe.
fu.ma.jk.bhzqfanuqko.qlfuwqtuqAptuwothhqApr ,qvotjoqo.qb.wkrnz.bs

Ko.qWksqL.nrl.’wqOthhqe.u,qonv.c.r,qv.r.qi.kk.rqh.bqnrqnyqpqi.kk.r
e.kkh.sqOtbb.uqizqpqatu.qvnnbqpwqko.zqv.r.,qko.zqw..eqknqopc.qi..u
xftk.qfuwfwa.jk.bqizqko.qEprktpuqu.pr.wkqknqko.esqKo.zqhptbqko.trqlfuw
pwqb.hti.rpk.hzqpwqtyqko.zqopbqi..uqnuqaprpb.,qpubqytr.bqpkqpinfkqp
konfwpubqzprbw’qrpul.s

Ko.qwo.hhwqyhpwo.bqphhqrnfubqote,qpubqo.qvpwqw..uqknqpbcpuj.qpqy.v
apj.w,qwkpll.r,qpubqlnqbnvusq.c.rzinbzqz.hh.bqknl.ko.r,qpubqko.qlfuw
v.r.qr.hnpb.bqtuqyrpuktjqopwk.sqKo.qnc.rkornvuqEprktpuqw.kqfaqp
arnhnul.bqfhfhpktnu,qpubqtee.btpk.hzqpqw.jnubqlhtkk.rtulqltpuk,
puwv.rtulqote,qpaa.pr.bqnc.rqko.qkr..wqknqko.qwnfkosqTkqvnfhbqw..eqkopk
pqh.lqnyqko.qkrtanbqopbqi..uqwepwo.bqizqnu.qnyqko.qwo.hhwsqKo.qvonh.qny
ko.qw.jnubqcnhh.zqyh.vqvtb.qnyqko.qEprktpuqnuqko.qlrnfub,qpub,
wtefhkpu.nfwhz,qinkoqotwqjneaputnuwqirnflokqko.trqO.pk-Rpzwqknqi.prqnu
ko.qipkk.rzsqKo.qpeefutktnuqih.vqfa,qko.qatu.qkr..wqphhqpinfkqko.qlfuw
yhpwo.bqtuknqytr.,qpubqnuhzqnu.qnrqkvnqnyqko.qe.uqvonqv.r.qphr.pbz
rfuutulqnc.rqko.qjr.wkqnyqko.qothhq.wjpa.bs

Pyk.rqkotwqtkqvnfhbqw..eqkopkqko.qkor..qknn qjnfuw.hqknl.ko.rqpub
ophk.b,qpubqko.qwjnfkwqvonqv.r.qvpkjotulqko.eqr.anrkqkopkqko.zqr.eptu.b
piwnhfk.hzqwkpktnuprzqynrqko.qu.mkqophyqonfrsqKo.qEprktpuqvonqopbqi..u
nc.rkornvuqjrpvh.bqk.btnfwhzqnfkqnyqotwqonnb,qpqwephhqirnvuqytlfr.,
nbbhzqwfll.wktc.qyrneqkopkqbtwkpuj.qnyqpqwa.j qnyqihtlok,qpub
paapr.ukhzq.ulpl.bqtuqko.qr.aptrqnyqotwqwfaanrksqPinfkqutu.qo.qopb
ytutwo.b,qynrqotwqjnvhqvpwqko.uqw..uqpinc.qko.qkr..wqplptus

Tkqvpwqpqy.vqetufk.wqapwkqutu.qkopkqutlokqvo.uqko.w.qkor..qw.uktu.hw
v.r.qgntu.bqizqynfrqnko.rqEprktpuw,q.pjoqjprrztulqpqkotj qihpj qkfi.sqP
wtethprqkfi.qvpwqopub.bqknq.pjoqnyqko.qkor..,qpubqko.qw.c.uqarnj..b.b
knqbtwkrtifk.qko.ew.hc.wqpkq.xfphqbtwkpuj.wqphnulqpqjfrc.bqhtu.qi.kv..u
WksqL.nrl.’wqOthh,qV.zirtbl.,qpubqko.qcthhpl.qnyqW.ub,qwnfkov.wkqny
Rtah.zs

Pqbnd.uqrnj .kwqwarpulqnfkqnyqko.qothhwqi.ynr.qko.eqwnqwnnuqpwqko.z
i.lpuqknqenc.,qpubqvpru.bqko.qvptktulqipkk.rt.wqpinfkqBtkknuqpubq.wo.rs
Pkqko.qwpe.qkte.qynfrqnyqko.trqytloktulqepjotu.w,qwtethprhzqpre.bqvtko
kfi.w,qjrnww.bqko.qrtc.r,qpubqkvnqnyqko.e,qihpj qplptuwkqko.qv.wk.ru
w z,qjpe.qtuknqwtlokqnyqezw.hyqpubqko.qjfrpk.qpwqv.qofrrt.bqv.prthzqpub
aptuyfhhzqphnulqko.qrnpbqkopkqrfuwqunrkovprbqnfkqnyqOphhtynrbsqKo.z
enc.b,qpwqtkqw..e.bqknqfw,qfanuqpqjhnfb,qynrqpqeth zqetwkqjnc.r.bqko.
yt.hbwqpubqrnw.qknqpqkotrbqnyqko.trqo.tloks

Pkqkotwqwtlokqko.qjfrpk.qjrt.bqyptukhzqtuqotwqkornpk,qpubqi.lpu
rfuutul;qifkqTq u.vqtkqvpwqunqlnnbqrfuutulqyrneqpqEprktpu,qpubqTqkfru.b
pwtb.qpubqjrpvh.bqkornfloqb.vzqu.kkh.wqpubqirpeih.wqtuknqko.qirnpb
btkjoqizqko.qwtb.qnyqko.qrnpbsqO.qhnn .bqipj ,qwpvqvopkqTqvpwqbntul,
pubqkfru.bqknqgntuqe.s

Ko.qkvnqophk.b,qko.qu.pr.rqknqfwqwkpubtulqpubqypjtulqWfuifrz,qko.
r.enk.rqi.tulqpqlr.zqtubtwktujku.wwqknvprbwqko.q.c.utulqwkpr,qpvpz
knvprbwqWkptu.ws

Ko.qnjjpwtnuphqonvhtulqnyqko.qEprktpuwqopbqj.pw.b;qko.zqknn qfaqko.tr
anwtktnuwqtuqko.qofl.qjr.wj.ukqpinfkqko.trqjzhtub.rwqtuqpiwnhfk.
wth.uj.sqTkqvpwqpqjr.wj.ukqvtkoqkv.hc.qeth.wqi.kv..uqtkwqonruwsqU.c.r
wtuj.qko.qb.ctwtulqnyqlfuanvb.rqvpwqko.qi.ltuutulqnyqpqipkkh.qwnqwkthhs
Knqfwqpubqknqpuqniw.rc.rqpinfkqRtah.zqtkqvnfhbqopc.qopbqar.jtw.hzqko.
wpe.q.yy.jk—ko.qEprktpuwqw..e.bqtuqwnhtkprzqanww.wwtnuqnyqko.qbpr htul
utlok,qhtkqnuhzqpwqtkqvpwqizqko.qwh.ub.rqennu,qko.qwkprw,qko.qpyk.rlhnv
nyqko.qbpzhtlok,qpubqko.qrfbbzqlhpr.qyrneqWksqL.nrl.’wqOthhqpubqko.
vnnbwqnyqAptuwothhs

Ifkqypjtulqkopkqjr.wj.ukq.c.rzvo.r.—pkqWkptu.w,qOnfuwhnv,qBtkknu,
.wo.r,qNj ope,qi.otubqothhwqpubqvnnbwqwnfkoqnyqko.qrtc.r,qpubqpjrnww
ko.qyhpkqlrpwwqe.pbnvwqknqko.qunrkoqnyqtk,qvo.r.c.rqpqjhfwk.rqnyqkr..w
nrqcthhpl.qonfw.wqlpc.qwfyytjt.ukqjnc.r—ko.qlfuwqv.r.qvptktulsqKo.
wtluphqrnj .kwqifrwkqpubqrptu.bqko.trqwapr wqkornfloqko.qutlokqpub
cputwo.b,qpubqko.qwatrtkqnyqphhqkonw.qvpkjotulqipkk.rt.wqrnw.qknqp
k.uw.q.ma.jkpktnusqKo.qEprktpuwqopbqifkqknqpbcpuj.qtuknqko.qhtu.qny
ytr.,qpubqtuwkpukhzqkonw.qenktnuh.wwqihpj qynrewqnyqe.u,qkonw.qlfuw
lhtkk.rtulqwnqbpr hzqtuqko.q.prhzqutlok,qvnfhbq.mahnb.qtuknqp
kofub.rnfwqyfrzqnyqipkkh.s

Unqbnfikqko.qkonflokqkopkqvpwqfaa.renwkqtuqpqkonfwpubqnyqkonw.qctlthpuk
etubw,q.c.uqpwqtkqvpwqfaa.renwkqtuqetu.,qvpwqko.qrtbbh.—onvqefjoqko.z
fub.rwknnbqnyqfwsqBtbqko.zqlrpwaqkopkqv.qtuqnfrqethhtnuwqv.r.
nrlputd.b,qbtwjtahtu.b,qvnr tulqknl.ko.r?qNrqbtbqko.zqtuk.rar.kqnfr
wafrkwqnyqytr.,qko.qwfbb.uqwktultulqnyqnfrqwo.hhw,qnfrqwk.pbz
tuc.wke.ukqnyqko.trq.ujpeae.uk,qpwqv.qwonfhbqko.qyfrtnfwqfuputetkzqny
nuwhpflokqtuqpqbtwkfri.bqotc.qnyqi..w?qBtbqko.zqbr.peqko.zqetlok
.mk.retupk.qfw?q(Pkqkopkqkte.qunqnu.q u.vqvopkqynnbqko.zqu..b.bs)qP
ofubr.bqwfjoqxf.wktnuwqwkrfllh.bqknl.ko.rqtuqezqetubqpwqTqvpkjo.bqkopk
cpwkqw.uktu.hqwopa.sqPubqtuqko.qipj qnyqezqetubqvpwqko.qw.uw.qnyqphh
ko.qofl.qfu unvuqpubqotbb.uqynrj.wqHnubnuvprbsqOpbqko.zqar.apr.b
atkyphhw?qV.r.qko.qanvb.rqethhwqpkqOnfuwhnvqr.pbzqpwqpqwupr.?qVnfhbqko.
Hnubnu.rwqopc.qko.qo.prkqpubqjnfrpl.qknqep .qpqlr.pk.rqEnwjnvqnyqko.tr
etlokzqarnctuj.qnyqonfw.w?

Ko.u,qpyk.rqpuqtuk.retupih.qkte.,qpwqtkqw..e.bqknqfw,qjrnfjotulqpub
a..rtulqkornfloqko.qo.bl.,qjpe.qpqwnfubqht .qko.qbtwkpukqjnujfwwtnuqny
pqlfusqPunko.rqu.pr.r,qpubqko.uqpunko.rsqPubqko.uqko.qEprktpuqi.wtb.qfw
rptw.bqotwqkfi.qnuqotloqpubqbtwjoprl.bqtk,qlfuvtw.,qvtkoqpqo.pczqr.anrk
kopkqepb.qko.qlrnfubqo.pc.sqKo.qnu.qknvprbwqWkptu.wqpuwv.r.bqotesqKo.r.
vpwqunqyhpwo,qunqwen .,qwteahzqkopkqhnpb.bqb.knupktnus

Tqvpwqwnq.mjtk.bqizqko.w.qo.pczqetufk.-lfuwqynhhnvtulqnu.qpunko.rqkopk
Tqwnqyprqynrlnkqezqa.rwnuphqwpy.kzqpubqezqwjphb.bqopubwqpwqknqjhpei.r
faqtuknqko.qo.bl.qpubqwkpr.qknvprbwqWfuifrzsqPwqTqbtbqwnqpqw.jnub
r.anrkqynhhnv.b,qpubqpqitlqarng.jkth.qofrkh.bqnc.ro.pbqknvprbw
OnfuwhnvsqTq.ma.jk.bqpkqh.pwkqknqw..qwen .qnrqytr.,qnrqwne.qwfjo
.ctb.uj.qnyqtkwqvnr sqIfkqphhqTqwpvqvpwqko.qb..aqihf.qw zqpinc.,qvtko
nu.qwnhtkprzqwkpr,qpubqko.qvotk.qetwkqwar.pbtulqvtb.qpubqhnvqi.u.pkos
Pubqko.r.qopbqi..uqunqjrpwo,qunqpuwv.rtulq.mahnwtnusqKo.qwth.uj.qvpw
r.wknr.b;qko.qetufk.qh.ulko.u.bqknqkor..s

“Vopkqopwqopaa.u.b?”qwptbqko.qjfrpk.,qwkpubtulqfaqi.wtb.qe.s

“O.pc.uq unvw!”qwptbqTs

Pqipkqyhtj .r.bqizqpubqcputwo.bsqPqbtwkpukqkfefhkqnyqwonfktulqi.lpuqpub
j.pw.bsqTqhnn .bqplptuqpkqko.qEprktpu,qpubqwpvqo.qvpwqunvqenctul
.pwkvprbqphnulqko.qrtc.ripu ,qvtkoqpqwvtyk,qrnhhtulqenktnus

.c.rzqene.ukqTq.ma.jk.bqko.qytr.qnyqwne.qotbb.uqipkk.rzqknqwartulqfanu
ote;qifkqko.q.c.utulqjpheqvpwqfuirn .usqKo.qytlfr.qnyqko.qEprktpuqlr.v
wephh.rqpwqo.qr.j.b.b,qpubqar.w.ukhzqko.qetwkqpubqko.qlpko.rtulqutlok
opbqwvphhnv.bqoteqfasqIzqpqjneenuqteafhw.qv.qjhpei.r.bqotlo.rsqKnvprbw
Wfuifrzqvpwqpqbpr qpaa.prpuj.,qpwqkonfloqpqjnutjphqothhqopbqwfbb.uhz
jne.qtuknqi.tulqko.r.,qotbtulqnfrqct.vqnyqko.qyprko.rqjnfukrz;qpub
ko.u,qr.enk.rqpjrnwwqko.qrtc.r,qnc.rqVphknu,qv.qwpvqpunko.rqwfjo
wfeetksqKo.w.qothh-ht .qynrewqlr.vqhnv.rqpubqirnpb.rq.c.uqpwqv.qwkpr.bs

Enc.bqizqpqwfbb.uqkonflok,qTqhnn .bqunrkovprb,qpubqko.r.qTqa.rj.tc.bqp
kotrbqnyqko.w.qjhnfbzqihpj q nag.wqopbqrtw.us

.c.rzkotulqopbqwfbb.uhzqi.jne.qc.rzqwkthhsqYprqpvpzqknqko.qwnfko.pwk,
epr tulqko.qxft.k,qv.qo.prbqko.qEprktpuwqonnktulqknqnu.qpunko.r,qpub
ko.uqko.qptrqxftc.r.bqplptuqvtkoqko.qbtwkpukqkofbqnyqko.trqlfuwsqIfk
ko.q.prkohzqprkthh.rzqepb.qunqr.ahzs

Unvqpkqko.qkte.qv.qjnfhbqunkqfub.rwkpubqko.w.qkotulw,qifkqhpk.rqTqvpw
knqh.pruqko.qe.putulqnyqko.w.qnetunfwq nag.wqkopkqlpko.r.bqtuqko.
kvthtloksq.pjoqnyqko.qEprktpuw,qwkpubtulqtuqko.qlr.pkqjr.wj.ukqTqopc.
b.wjrti.b,qopbqbtwjoprl.b,qizqe.puwqnyqko.qlfuht .qkfi.qo.qjprrt.b,qp
ofl.qjputwk.rqnc.rqvopk.c.rqothh,qjnaw.,qjhfwk.rqnyqonfw.w,qnrqnko.r
anwwtih.qjnc.rqynrqlfuw,qjopuj.bqknqi.qtuqyrnukqnyqotesqWne.qytr.bqnuhz
nu.qnyqko.w.,qwne.qkvn—pwqtuqko.qjpw.qnyqko.qnu.qv.qopbqw..u;qko.qnu.
pkqRtah.zqtwqwptbqknqopc.qbtwjoprl.bqunqy.v.rqkopuqytc.qpkqkopkqkte.s
Ko.w.qjputwk.rwqwepwo.bqnuqwkrt tulqko.qlrnfub—ko.zqbtbqunkq.mahnb.—pub
tujnuktu.ukhzqbtw.ulpl.bqpuq.unrenfwqcnhfe.qnyqo.pcz,qtu zqcpanfr,
jnthtulqpubqanfrtulqfavprbqtuqpqofl.qpubq.inuzqjfefhfwqjhnfb,qpqlpw.nfw
othhqkopkqwpu qpubqwar.pbqtkw.hyqwhnvhzqnc.rqko.qwfrrnfubtulqjnfukrzs
Pubqko.qknfjoqnyqkopkqcpanfr,qko.qtuophtulqnyqtkwqaful.ukqvtwaw,qvpw
b.pkoqknqphhqkopkqir.pko.ws

Tkqvpwqo.pcz,qkotwqcpanfr,qo.pct.rqkopuqko.qb.uw.wkqwen .,qwnqkopk,
pyk.rqko.qytrwkqkfefhkfnfwqfarfwoqpubqnfkyhnvqnyqtkwqteapjk,qtkqwpu 
bnvuqkornfloqko.qptrqpubqanfr.bqnc.rqko.qlrnfubqtuqpqepuu.rqrpko.r
htxftbqkopuqlpw.nfw,qpipubnutulqko.qothhw,qpubqwkr.petulqtuknqko.
cphh.zwqpubqbtkjo.wqpubqvpk.rjnfrw.wq.c.uqpwqTqopc.qo.prbqko.
jprinutj-pjtbqlpwqkopkqanfrwqyrneqcnhjputjqjh.ykwqtwqvnukqknqbnsqPub
vo.r.qtkqjpe.qfanuqvpk.rqwne.qjo.etjphqpjktnuqnjjfrr.b,qpubqko.qwfrypj.
vnfhbqi.qtuwkpukhzqjnc.r.bqvtkoqpqanvb.rzqwjfeqkopkqwpu qwhnvhzqpub
epb.qvpzqynrqenr.sqKo.qwjfeqvpwqpiwnhfk.hzqtuwnhfih.,qpubqtkqtwqp
wkrpul.qkotul,qw..tulqko.qtuwkpukq.yy.jkqnyqko.qlpw,qkopkqnu.qjnfhb
brtu qvtkonfkqofrkqko.qvpk.rqyrneqvotjoqtkqopbqi..uqwkrptu.bsqKo.
cpanfrqbtbqunkqbtyyfw.qpwqpqkrf.qlpwqvnfhbqbnsqTkqofulqknl.ko.rqtu
ipu w,qyhnvtulqwhflltwohzqbnvuqko.qwhna.qnyqko.qhpubqpubqbrtctul
r.hfjkpukhzqi.ynr.qko.qvtub,qpubqc.rzqwhnvhzqtkqjneitu.bqvtkoqko.qetwk
pubqentwkfr.qnyqko.qptr,qpubqwpu qknqko.q.prkoqtuqko.qynreqnyqbfwks
Wpc.qkopkqpuqfu unvuq.h.e.ukqltctulqpqlrnfaqnyqynfrqhtu.wqtuqko.qihf.
nyqko.qwa.jkrfeqtwqjnuj.ru.b,qv.qpr.qwkthhq.uktr.hzqtlunrpukqnyqko.
upkfr.qnyqkotwqwfiwkpuj.s

Nuj.qko.qkfefhkfnfwqfao.pcphqnyqtkwqbtwa.rwtnuqvpwqnc.r,qko.qihpj 
wen .qjhfulqwnqjhnw.hzqknqko.qlrnfub,q.c.uqi.ynr.qtkwqar.jtatkpktnu,
kopkqytykzqy..kqfaqtuqko.qptr,qnuqko.qrnnywqpubqfaa.rqwknrt.wqnyqotlo
onfw.wqpubqnuqlr.pkqkr..w,qko.r.qvpwqpqjopuj.qnyq.wjpatulqtkwqantwnu
phknl.ko.r,qpwqvpwqarnc.bq.c.uqkopkqutlokqpkqWkr..kqJniopeqpubqBtkknus

Ko.qepuqvonq.wjpa.bqpkqko.qynre.rqahpj.qk.hhwqpqvnub.ryfhqwknrzqnyqko.
wkrpul.u.wwqnyqtkwqjnthtulqyhnv,qpubqonvqo.qhnn .bqbnvuqyrneqko.qjofrjo
watr.qpubqwpvqko.qonfw.wqnyqko.qcthhpl.qrtwtulqht .qlonwkwqnfkqnyqtkw
tu zqunkotulu.wwsqYnrqpqbpzqpubqpqophyqo.qr.eptu.bqko.r.,qv.prz,
wkprctulqpubqwfu-wjnrjo.b,qko.q.prkoqfub.rqko.qihf.qw zqpubqplptuwkqko.
arnwa.jkqnyqko.qbtwkpukqothhwqpqc.hc.k-ihpj q.mapuw.,qvtkoqr.bqrnnyw,
lr..uqkr..w,qpub,qhpk.r,qihpj -c.th.bqworfiwqpubqlpk.w,qipruw,
nfkonfw.w,qpubqvphhw,qrtwtulqo.r.qpubqko.r.qtuknqko.qwfuhtloks

IfkqkopkqvpwqpkqWkr..kqJniope,qvo.r.qko.qihpj qcpanfrqvpwqphhnv.bqkn
r.eptuqfukthqtkqwpu qnyqtkwqnvuqpjjnrbqtuknqko.qlrnfubsqPwqpqrfh.qko.
Eprktpuw,qvo.uqtkqopbqw.rc.bqtkwqafranw.,qjh.pr.bqko.qptrqnyqtkqplptu
izqvpbtulqtuknqtkqpubqbtr.jktulqpqg.kqnyqwk.peqfanuqtks

Kotwqko.zqbtbqvtkoqko.qcpanfrqipu wqu.prqfw,qpwqv.qwpvqtuqko.qwkprhtlok
yrneqko.qvtubnvqnyqpqb.w.rk.bqonfw.qpkqFaa.rqOphhtynrb,qvotko.rqv.qopb
r.kfru.bsqYrneqko.r.qv.qjnfhbqw..qko.qw.prjohtlokwqnuqRtjoenubqOthhqpub
 tulwknuqOthhqlntulqknqpubqyrn,qpubqpinfkq.h.c.uqko.qvtubnvwqrpkkh.b,
pubqv.qo.prbqko.qwnfubqnyqko.qofl.qwt.l.qlfuwqkopkqopbqi..uqafkqtu
anwtktnuqko.r.sqKo.w.qjnuktuf.bqtuk.retkk.ukhzqynrqko.qwapj.qnyqp
xfprk.rqnyqpuqonfr,qw.ubtulqjopuj.qwonkwqpkqko.qtuctwtih.qEprktpuwqpk
OpeaknuqpubqBtkknu,qpubqko.uqko.qaph.qi.pewqnyqko.q.h.jkrtjqhtlok
cputwo.b,qpubqv.r.qr.ahpj.bqizqpqirtlokqr.bqlhnvs

Ko.uqko.qynfrkoqjzhtub.rqy.hh—pqirthhtpukqlr..uqe.k.nr—pwqTqh.pru.b
pyk.rvprbw,qtuqIfwo.zqApr sqI.ynr.qko.qlfuwqnuqko.qRtjoenubqpub
 tulwknuqhtu.qnyqothhwqi.lpu,qko.r.qvpwqpqytkyfhqjpuunupb.qyprqpvpzqtu
ko.qwnfkov.wk,qbf.,qTqi.ht.c.,qknqlfuwqi.tulqytr.bqopaopdprbqi.ynr.qko.
ihpj qcpanfrqjnfhbqnc.rvo.heqko.qlfuu.rws

Wn,qw.kktulqpinfkqtkqpwqe.konbtjphhzqpwqe.uqetlokqwen .qnfkqpqvpwaw’
u.wk,qko.qEprktpuwqwar.pbqkotwqwkrpul.qwktyhtulqcpanfrqnc.rqko.
HnubnuvprbqjnfukrzsqKo.qonruwqnyqko.qjr.wj.ukqwhnvhzqenc.bqpaprk,qfukth
pkqhpwkqko.zqynre.bqpqhtu.qyrneqOpuv.hhqknqJnnei.qpubqEphb.usqPhhqutlok
kornfloqko.trqb.wkrfjktc.qkfi.wqpbcpuj.bsqU.c.rqnuj.,qpyk.rqko.qEprktpu
pkqWksqL.nrl.’wqOthhqvpwqirnflokqbnvu,qbtbqko.zqltc.qko.qprkthh.rzqko.
lonwkqnyqpqjopuj.qplptuwkqko.esqVo.r.c.rqko.r.qvpwqpqanwwtithtkzqny
lfuwqi.tulqhptbqynrqko.eqfuw..u,qpqyr.woqjputwk.rqnyqko.qihpj qcpanfr
vpwqbtwjoprl.b,qpubqvo.r.qko.qlfuwqv.r.qna.uhzqbtwahpz.bqko.qO.pk-Rpz
vpwqirnflokqknqi.prs

Izqetbutlokqko.qihpdtulqkr..wqphnulqko.qwhna.wqnyqRtjoenubqApr qpubqko.
lhpr.qnyq tulwknuqOthhqkor.vqko.trqhtlokqfanuqpqu.kvnr qnyqihpj qwen .,
ihnkktulqnfkqko.qvonh.qcphh.zqnyqko.qKope.wqpubq.mk.ubtulqpwqyprqpwqko.
.z.qjnfhbqr.pjosqPubqkornfloqkotwqkvnqEprktpuwqwhnvhzqvpb.b,qpubqkfru.b
ko.trqotwwtulqwk.peqg.kwqkotwqvpzqpubqkopks

Ko.zqv.r.qwaprtulqnyqko.qO.pk-Rpzqkopkqutlok,q.tko.rqi.jpfw.qko.zqopb
ifkqpqhtetk.bqwfaahzqnyqepk.rtphqynrqtkwqarnbfjktnuqnrqi.jpfw.qko.zqbtb
unkqvtwoqknqb.wkrnzqko.qjnfukrzqifkqnuhzqknqjrfwoqpubqnc.rpv.qko.
naanwtktnuqko.zqopbqprnfw.bsqTuqko.qhpkk.rqpteqko.zqj.rkptuhz
wfjj..b.bsqWfubpzqutlokqvpwqko.q.ubqnyqko.qnrlputw.bqnaanwtktnuqkn
ko.trqenc.e.ukwsqPyk.rqkopkqunqinbzqnyqe.uqvnfhbqwkpubqplptuwkqko.e,qwn
ona.h.wwqvpwqko.q.uk.rartw.sq.c.uqko.qjr.vwqnyqko.qknra.bn-inpkwqpub
b.wkrnz.rwqkopkqopbqirnflokqko.trqxftj -ytr.rwqfaqko.qKope.wqr.yfw.bqkn
wkna,qefktut.b,qpubqv.ukqbnvuqplptusqKo.qnuhzqnyy.uwtc.qna.rpktnuqe.u
c.ukfr.bqfanuqpyk.rqkopkqutlokqvpwqko.qar.aprpktnuqnyqetu.wqpub
atkyphhw,qpubq.c.uqtuqkopkqko.trq.u.rlt.wqv.r.qyrpuktjqpubqwapwenbtjs

Nu.qopwqknqtepltu.,qpwqv.hhqpwqnu.qepz,qko.qypk.qnyqkonw.qipkk.rt.w
knvprbwq.wo.r,qvptktulqwnqk.uw.hzqtuqko.qkvthtloksqWfrctcnrwqko.r.qv.r.
unu.sqNu.qepzqatjkfr.qko.qnrb.rhzq.ma.jkpktnu,qko.qnyytj.rwqph.rkqpub
vpkjoyfh,qko.qlfuu.rwqr.pbz,qko.qpeefutktnuqath.bqknqopub,qko.qhtei.r
lfuu.rwqvtkoqko.trqonrw.wqpubqvpllnuw,qko.qlrnfawqnyqjtcthtpu
wa.jkpknrwqwkpubtulqpwqu.prqpwqko.zqv.r.qa.retkk.b,qko.q.c.utul
wkthhu.ww,qko.qpeifhpuj.wqpubqonwatkphqk.ukwqvtkoqko.qifru.bqpub
vnfub.bqyrneqV.zirtbl.;qko.uqko.qbfhhqr.wnupuj.qnyqko.qwonkwqko.
Eprktpuwqytr.b,qpubqko.qjhfewzqarng.jkth.qvotrhtulqnc.rqko.qkr..wqpub
onfw.wqpubqwepwotulqpetbqko.qu.tloinfrtulqyt.hbws

Nu.qepzqatjkfr.,qknn,qko.qwfbb.uqwotyktulqnyqko.qpkk.uktnu,qko.qwvtykhz
war.pbtulqjnthwqpubqi.hhztulwqnyqkopkqihpj u.wwqpbcpujtulqo.pbhnul,
knv.rtulqo.pc.uvprb,qkfrutulqko.qkvthtlokqknqpqaphapih.qbpr u.ww,qp
wkrpul.qpubqonrrtih.qpukplnutwkqnyqcpanfrqwkrtbtulqfanuqtkwqctjktew,
e.uqpubqonrw.wqu.prqtkqw..uqbtehz,qrfuutul,qwort. tul,qyphhtul
o.pbhnul,qwonfkwqnyqbtwepz,qko.qlfuwqwfbb.uhzqpipubnu.b,qe.uqjon tul
pubqvrtkotulqnuqko.qlrnfub,qpubqko.qwvtykqirnpb.utul-nfkqnyqko.qnapxf.
jnu.qnyqwen .sqPubqko.uqutlokqpubq.mktujktnu—unkotulqifkqpqwth.ukqepww
nyqtea.u.krpih.qcpanfrqotbtulqtkwqb.pbs

I.ynr.qbpvuqko.qihpj qcpanfrqvpwqanfrtulqkornfloqko.qwkr..kwqny
Rtjoenub,qpubqko.qbtwtuk.lrpktulqnrlputweqnyqlnc.rue.ukqvpw,qvtkoqp
hpwkq.matrtulq.yynrk,qrnfwtulqko.qanafhpktnuqnyqHnubnuqknqko.qu.j.wwtkz
nyqyhtloks


MCTs

KO.q.MNBFWqYRNEqHNUBNUs

Wnqznfqfub.rwkpubqko.qrnprtulqvpc.qnyqy.prqkopkqwv.akqkornfloqko.
lr.pk.wkqjtkzqtuqko.qvnrhbqgfwkqpwqEnubpzqvpwqbpvutul—ko.qwkr.peqny
yhtlokqrtwtulqwvtykhzqknqpqknrr.uk,qhpwotulqtuqpqynpetulqkfefhkqrnfub
ko.qrpthvpzqwkpktnuw,qipu .bqfaqtuknqpqonrrtih.qwkrfllh.qpinfkqko.
wotaatulqtuqko.qKope.w,qpubqofrrztulqizq.c.rzqpcpthpih.qjopuu.h
unrkovprbqpubq.pwkvprbsqIzqk.uqn’jhnj qko.qanhtj.qnrlputwpktnu,qpubqiz
etbbpzq.c.uqko.qrpthvpzqnrlputwpktnuw,qv.r.qhnwtulqjno.r.ujz,qhnwtul
wopa.qpubq.yytjt.ujz,qlfkk.rtul,qwnyk.utul,qrfuutulqpkqhpwkqtuqkopk
wvtykqhtxf.ypjktnuqnyqko.qwnjtphqinbzs

Phhqko.qrpthvpzqhtu.wqunrkoqnyqko.qKope.wqpubqko.qWnfko-.pwk.ruqa.nah.
pkqJpuunuqWkr..kqopbqi..uqvpru.bqizqetbutlokqnuqWfubpz,qpubqkrptuwqv.r.
i.tulqythh.bsqA.nah.qv.r.qytloktulqwpcpl.hzqynrqwkpubtul-rnneqtuqko.
jprrtpl.wq.c.uqpkqkvnqn’jhnj sqIzqkor..,qa.nah.qv.r.qi.tulqkrpeah.bqpub
jrfwo.bq.c.uqtuqItwonawlpk.qWkr..k,qpqjnfah.qnyqofubr.bqzprbwqnrqenr.
yrneqHtc.rannhqWkr..kqwkpktnu;qr.cnhc.rwqv.r.qytr.b,qa.nah.qwkpii.b,
pubqko.qanhtj.e.uqvonqopbqi..uqw.ukqknqbtr.jkqko.qkrpyytj,q.mopfwk.b
pubqtuyfrtpk.b,qv.r.qir.p tulqko.qo.pbwqnyqko.qa.nah.qko.zqv.r.qjphh.b
nfkqknqarnk.jks

Pubqpwqko.qbpzqpbcpuj.bqpubqko.q.ultu.qbrtc.rwqpubqwkn .rwqr.yfw.bqkn
r.kfruqknqHnubnu,qko.qar.wwfr.qnyqko.qyhtlokqbrnc.qko.qa.nah.qtuqpu
.c.r-kotj .utulqefhktkfb.qpvpzqyrneqko.qwkpktnuwqpubqphnulqko.
unrkovprb-rfuutulqrnpbwsqIzqetbbpzqpqEprktpuqopbqi..uqw..uqpkqIpru.w,
pubqpqjhnfbqnyqwhnvhzqwtu tulqihpj qcpanfrqbrnc.qphnulqko.qKope.wqpub
pjrnwwqko.qyhpkwqnyqHpei.ko,qjfkktulqnyyqphhq.wjpa.qnc.rqko.qirtbl.wqtu
tkwqwhflltwoqpbcpuj.sqPunko.rqipu qbrnc.qnc.rq.phtul,qpubqwfrrnfub.bqp
htkkh.qtwhpubqnyqwfrctcnrwqnuqJpwkh.qOthh,qphtc.,qifkqfupih.qknq.wjpa.s

Pyk.rqpqyrftkh.wwqwkrfllh.qknql.kqpinprbqpqUnrko-V.wk.ruqkrptuqpkqJoph 
Ypre—ko.q.ultu.wqnyqko.qkrptuwqkopkqopbqhnpb.bqtuqko.qlnnbwqzprbqko.r.
_ahnflo.b_qkornfloqwort. tulqa.nah.,qpubqpqbnd.uqwkphvprkqe.uqynflokqkn
 ..aqko.qjrnvbqyrneqjrfwotulqko.qbrtc.rqplptuwkqotwqyfrupj.—ezqirnko.r
.e.rl.bqfanuqko.qJoph qYpreqrnpb,qbnbl.bqpjrnwwqkornfloqpqofrrztul
wvpreqnyqc.otjh.w,qpubqopbqko.qhfj qknqi.qynr.enwkqtuqko.qwpj qnyqp
jzjh.qwonasqKo.qyrnukqktr.qnyqko.qepjotu.qo.qlnkqvpwqafujkfr.bqtu
brplltulqtkqkornfloqko.qvtubnv,qifkqo.qlnkqfaqpubqnyy,qunkvtkowkpubtul,
vtkoqunqyfrko.rqtugfrzqkopuqpqjfkqvrtwksqKo.qwk..aqynnkqnyqOpc.rwknj 
Othhqvpwqteapwwpih.qnvtulqknqw.c.rphqnc.rkfru.bqonrw.w,qpubqezqirnko.r
wkrfj qtuknqI.hwtd.qRnpbs

Wnqo.qlnkqnfkqnyqko.qyfrzqnyqko.qaputj,qpub,qw trktulqko.q.blvpr.qRnpb,
r.pjo.bq.blvpr.qpinfkqw.c.u,qypwktulqpubqv.prt.b,qifkqv.hhqpo.pbqnyqko.
jrnvbsqPhnulqko.qrnpbqa.nah.qv.r.qwkpubtulqtuqko.qrnpbvpz,qjfrtnfw,
vnub.rtulsqO.qvpwqapww.bqizqpqufei.rqnyqjzjhtwkw,qwne.qonrw.e.u,qpub
kvnqenknrqjprwsqPqeth.qyrneq.blvpr.qko.qrteqnyqko.qvo..hqirn .,qpubqko.
epjotu.qi.jpe.qfurtbpih.sqO.qh.ykqtkqizqko.qrnpbwtb.qpubqkrfbl.b
kornfloqko.qcthhpl.sqKo.r.qv.r.qwonawqophyqna.u.bqtuqko.qeptuqwkr..kqny
ko.qahpj.,qpubqa.nah.qjrnvb.bqnuqko.qapc.e.ukqpubqtuqko.qbnnrvpzwqpub
vtubnvw,qwkprtulqpwknutwo.bqpkqkotwq.mkrpnrbtuprzqarnj.wwtnuqny
yfltktc.wqkopkqvpwqi.ltuutulsqO.qwfjj..b.bqtuql.kktulqwne.qynnbqpkqpu
tuus

Ynrqpqkte.qo.qr.eptu.bqtuq.blvpr.qunkq unvtulqvopkqu.mkqknqbnsqKo.
yhztulqa.nah.qtujr.pw.bqtuqufei.rsqEpuzqnyqko.e,qht .qezqirnko.r,
w..e.bqtujhtu.bqknqhntk.rqtuqko.qahpj.sqKo.r.qvpwqunqyr.woqu.vwqnyqko.
tucpb.rwqyrneqEprws

Pkqkopkqkte.qko.qrnpbqvpwqjrnvb.b,qifkqpwqz.kqyprqyrneqjnul.wk.bsqEnwk
nyqko.qyfltktc.wqpkqkopkqonfrqv.r.qenfuk.bqnuqjzjh.w,qifkqko.r.qv.r.
wnnuqenknrqjprw,qopuwneqjpiw,qpubqjprrtpl.wqofrrztulqphnul,qpubqko.
bfwkqofulqtuqo.pczqjhnfbwqphnulqko.qrnpbqknqWksqPhipuws

Tkqvpwqa.ropawqpqcplf.qtb.pqnyqep tulqotwqvpzqknqJo.hewynrb,qvo.r.qwne.
yrt.ubwqnyqotwqhtc.b,qkopkqpkqhpwkqtubfj.bqezqirnko.rqknqwkrt .qtuknqp
xft.kqhpu.qrfuutulq.pwkvprbsqAr.w.ukhzqo.qjpe.qfanuqpqwkth.,qpub,
jrnwwtulqtk,qynhhnv.bqpqynnkapkoqunrko.pwkvprbsqO.qapww.bqu.prqw.c.rph
ypreonfw.wqpubqwne.qhtkkh.qahpj.wqvonw.qupe.wqo.qbtbqunkqh.prusqO.qwpv
y.vqyfltktc.wqfukth,qtuqpqlrpwwqhpu.qknvprbwqOtloqIpru.k,qo.qopaa.u.b
fanuqkvnqhpbt.wqvonqi.jpe.qotwqy.hhnvqkrpc.hh.rwsqO.qjpe.qfanuqko.e
gfwkqtuqkte.qknqwpc.qko.es

O.qo.prbqko.trqwjr.pew,qpub,qofrrztulqrnfubqko.qjnru.r,qwpvqpqjnfah.qny
e.uqwkrfllhtulqknqbrplqko.eqnfkqnyqko.qhtkkh.qanuz-joptw.qtuqvotjoqko.z
opbqi..uqbrtctul,qvoth.qpqkotrbqvtkoqbtyytjfhkzqo.hbqko.qyrtlok.u.b
anuz’wqo.pbsqNu.qnyqko.qhpbt.w,qpqwonrkqvnepuqbr.ww.bqtuqvotk.,qvpw
wteahzqwjr.petul;qko.qnko.r,qpqbpr ,qwh.ub.rqytlfr.,qwhpwo.bqpkqko.qepu
vonqlrtaa.bqo.rqpreqvtkoqpqvotaqwo.qo.hbqtuqo.rqbtw.ulpl.bqopubs

Ezqirnko.rqtee.btpk.hzqlrpwa.bqko.qwtkfpktnu,qwonfk.b,qpubqofrrt.b
knvprbwqko.qwkrfllh.sqNu.qnyqko.qe.uqb.wtwk.bqpubqkfru.bqknvprbwqote,
pubqezqirnko.r,qr.phtwtulqyrneqotwqpukplnutwk’wqypj.qkopkqpqytlokqvpw
fupcntbpih.,qpubqi.tulqpuq.ma.rkqinm.r,qv.ukqtuknqoteqynrkovtkoqpub
w.ukqoteqbnvuqplptuwkqko.qvo..hqnyqko.qjoptw.s

Tkqvpwqunqkte.qynrqaflthtwktjqjotcphrzqpubqezqirnko.rqhptbqoteqxft.k
vtkoqpq tj ,qpubqlrtaa.bqko.qjnhhprqnyqko.qepuqvonqafhh.bqpkqko.
wh.ub.rqhpbz’wqpresqO.qo.prbqko.qjhpkk.rqnyqonnyw,qko.qvotaqwkful
pjrnwwqotwqypj.,qpqkotrbqpukplnutwkqwkrfj qoteqi.kv..uqko.q.z.w,qpub
ko.qepuqo.qo.hbqvr.ujo.bqotew.hyqyr..qpubqepb.qnyyqbnvuqko.qhpu.qtuqko.
btr.jktnuqyrneqvotjoqo.qopbqjne.s

Aprkhzqwkfuu.b,qo.qynfubqotew.hyqypjtulqko.qepuqvonqopbqo.hbqko.
onrw.’wqo.pb,qpubqi.jpe.qpvpr.qnyqko.qjoptw.qr.j.btulqyrneqoteqbnvuqko.
hpu.,qwvpztulqyrneqwtb.qknqwtb.,qpubqvtkoqko.qvne.uqtuqtkqhnn tulqipj s
Ko.qepuqi.ynr.qote,qpqifrhzqrnflo,qkrt.bqknqjhnw.,qpubqo.qwknaa.bqote
vtkoqpqihnvqtuqko.qypj.sqKo.u,qr.phtwtulqkopkqo.qvpwqb.w.rk.b,qo.
bnbl.bqrnfubqpubqepb.qnyyqbnvuqko.qhpu.qpyk.rqko.qjoptw.,qvtkoqko.
wkfrbzqepuqjhnw.qi.otubqote,qpubqko.qyfltktc.,qvonqopbqkfru.bqunv,
ynhhnvtulqr.enk.hzs

Wfbb.uhzqo.qwkfeih.bqpubqy.hh;qotwqtee.btpk.qafrwf.rqv.ukqo.pbhnul,qpub
o.qrnw.qknqotwqy..kqknqytubqotew.hyqvtkoqpqjnfah.qnyqpukplnutwkwqplptus
O.qvnfhbqopc.qopbqhtkkh.qjopuj.qplptuwkqko.eqopbqunkqko.qwh.ub.rqhpbz
c.rzqahfj thzqafhh.bqfaqpubqr.kfru.bqknqotwqo.hasqTkqw..ewqwo.qopbqopb
pqr.cnhc.rqphhqkotwqkte.,qifkqtkqopbqi..uqfub.rqko.qw.pkqvo.uqwo.qpub
o.rqjneaputnuqv.r.qpkkpj .bsqWo.qytr.bqpkqwtmqzprbw’qbtwkpuj.,quprrnvhz
etwwtulqezqirnko.rsqKo.qh.wwqjnfrpl.nfwqnyqko.qrnii.rwqepb.qnyy,qpub
otwqjneaputnuqynhhnv.bqote,qjfrwtulqotwqjnvprbtj.sqKo.zqinkoqwknaa.bqtu
wtlokqbnvuqko.qhpu.,qvo.r.qko.qkotrbqepuqhpzqtuw.uwtih.s

“Kp .qkotw!”qwptbqko.qwh.ub.rqhpbz,qpubqwo.qlpc.qezqirnko.rqo.r
r.cnhc.rs

“Lnqipj qknqko.qjoptw.,”qwptbqezqirnko.r,qvtatulqko.qihnnbqyrneqotw
wahtkqhtas

Wo.qkfru.bqvtkonfkqpqvnrb—ko.zqv.r.qinkoqapuktul—pubqko.zqv.ukqipj qkn
vo.r.qko.qhpbzqtuqvotk.qwkrfllh.bqknqonhbqipj qko.qyrtlok.u.bqanuzs

Ko.qrnii.rwqopbq.ctb.ukhzqopbq.unfloqnyqtksqVo.uqezqirnko.rqhnn .b
plptuqko.zqv.r.qr.kr.pktuls

“T’hhqwtkqo.r.,”qwptbqezqirnko.r,q“tyqTqepz”;qpubqo.qlnkqfanuqko.q.eakz
yrnukqw.pksqKo.qhpbzqhnn .bqnc.rqo.rqwonfhb.rs

“Ltc.qe.qko.qr.tuw,”qwo.qwptb,qpubqhptbqko.qvotaqphnulqko.qanuz’wqwtb.s
Tuqpunko.rqene.ukqpqi.ubqtuqko.qrnpbqotbqko.qkor..qe.uqyrneqez
irnko.r’wq.z.ws

Wn,qxftk.qfu.ma.jk.bhz,qezqirnko.rqynfubqotew.hy,qapuktul,qvtkoqpqjfk
enfko,qpqirftw.bqgpv,qpubqihnnbwkptu.bq ufj h.w,qbrtctulqphnulqpu
fu unvuqhpu.qvtkoqko.w.qkvnqvne.us

O.qh.pru.bqko.zqv.r.qko.qvty.qpubqko.qznful.rqwtwk.rqnyqpqwfrl.nu
htctulqpkqWkpuenr.,qvonqopbqjne.qtuqko.qwephhqonfrwqyrneqpqbpul.rnfw
jpw.qpkqAtuu.r,qpubqo.prbqpkqwne.qrpthvpzqwkpktnuqnuqotwqvpzqnyqko.
Eprktpuqpbcpuj.sqO.qopbqofrrt.bqone.,qrnfw.bqko.qvne.u—ko.trqw.rcpuk
opbqh.ykqko.eqkvnqbpzwqi.ynr.—apj .bqwne.qarnctwtnuw,qafkqotwqr.cnhc.r
fub.rqko.qw.pk—hfj thzqynrqezqirnko.r—pubqknhbqko.eqknqbrtc.qnuqkn
.blvpr.,qvtkoqko.qtb.pqnyql.kktulqpqkrptuqko.r.sqO.qwknaa.bqi.otubqkn
k.hhqko.qu.tloinfrwsqO.qvnfhbqnc.rkp .qko.e,qo.qwptb,qpkqpinfkqophy
apwkqynfrqtuqko.qenrutul,qpubqunvqtkqvpwqu.prhzqutu.qpubqko.zqopbqw..u
unkotulqnyqotesqKo.zqjnfhbqunkqwknaqtuq.blvpr.qi.jpfw.qnyqko.qlrnvtul
krpyytjqkornfloqko.qahpj.,qpubqwnqko.zqopbqjne.qtuknqkotwqwtb.qhpu.s

Kopkqvpwqko.qwknrzqko.zqknhbqezqirnko.rqtuqyrple.ukwqvo.uqar.w.ukhz
ko.zqwknaa.bqplptu,qu.pr.rqknqU.vqIpru.ksqO.qarnetw.bqknqwkpzqvtko
ko.e,qpkqh.pwkqfukthqko.zqjnfhbqb.k.retu.qvopkqknqbn,qnrqfukthqko.
etwwtulqepuqprrtc.b,qpubqarny.ww.bqknqi.qpuq.ma.rkqwonkqvtkoqko.
r.cnhc.r—pqv.panuqwkrpul.qknqote—tuqnrb.rqknqltc.qko.eqjnuytb.uj.s

Ko.zqepb.qpqwnrkqnyq.ujpeae.ukqizqko.qvpzwtb.,qpubqko.qanuzqi.jpe.
opaazqtuqko.qo.bl.sqO.qknhbqko.eqnyqotwqnvuq.wjpa.qnfkqnyqHnubnu,qpub
phhqkopkqo.q u.vqnyqko.w.qEprktpuwqpubqko.trqvpzwsqKo.qwfuqjr.akqotlo.r
tuqko.qw z,qpubqpyk.rqpqkte.qko.trqkph qbt.bqnfkqpubqlpc.qahpj.qknqpu
fu.pwzqwkpk.qnyqpuktjtapktnusqW.c.rphqvpzypr.rwqjpe.qphnulqko.qhpu.,
pubqnyqko.w.qezqirnko.rqlpko.r.bqwfjoqu.vwqpwqo.qjnfhbsq.c.rzqirn .u
puwv.rqo.qopbqb..a.u.bqotwqtear.wwtnuqnyqko.qlr.pkqbtwpwk.rqkopkqopb
jne.qnuqofeputkz,qb..a.u.bqotwqa.rwfpwtnuqnyqko.qtee.btpk.qu.j.wwtkz
ynrqarnw.jfktulqkotwqyhtloksqO.qfrl.bqko.qepkk.rqfanuqko.es

“V.qopc.qenu.z,”qwptbqko.qwh.ub.rqvnepu,qpubqo.wtkpk.bs

O.rq.z.wqe.kqezqirnko.r’w,qpubqo.rqo.wtkpktnuq.ub.bs

“Wnqopc.qT,”qwptbqezqirnko.rs

Wo.q.mahptu.bqkopkqko.zqopbqpwqefjoqpwqkotrkzqanfubwqtuqlnhb,qi.wtb.wqp
ytc.-anfubqunk.,qpubqwfll.wk.bqkopkqvtkoqkopkqko.zqetlokql.kqfanuqp
krptuqpkqWksqPhipuwqnrqU.vqIpru.ksqEzqirnko.rqkonflokqkopkqvpw
ona.h.ww,qw..tulqko.qyfrzqnyqko.qHnubnu.rwqknqjrnvbqfanuqko.qkrptuw,
pubqirnpjo.bqotwqnvuqtb.pqnyqwkrt tulqpjrnwwq.ww.mqknvprbwqOprvtjoqpub
ko.uj.q.wjpatulqyrneqko.qjnfukrzqphknl.ko.rs

Erwsq.haotuwknu.—kopkqvpwqko.qupe.qnyqko.qvnepuqtuqvotk.—vnfhbqhtwk.u
knqunqr.pwnutul,qpubq .akqjphhtulqfanuq“L.nrl.”;qifkqo.rqwtwk.r-tu-hpv
vpwqpwknutwotulhzqxft.kqpubqb.hti.rpk.,qpubqpkqhpwkqplr..bqknqez
irnko.r’wqwfll.wktnusqWn,qb.wtlutulqknqjrnwwqko.qLr.pkqUnrkoqRnpb,qko.z
v.ukqnuqknvprbwqIpru.k,qezqirnko.rqh.pbtulqko.qanuzqknqwpc.qtkqpwqefjo
pwqanwwtih.sqPwqko.qwfuqjr.akqfaqko.qw zqko.qbpzqi.jpe.q.mj.wwtc.hz
onk,qpubqfub.rqynnkqpqkotj ,qvotktwoqwpubqlr.vqifrutulqpubqihtubtul,qwn
kopkqko.zqkrpc.hh.bqnuhzqc.rzqwhnvhzsqKo.qo.bl.wqv.r.qlr.zqvtkoqbfwks
Pubqpwqko.zqpbcpuj.bqknvprbwqIpru.kqpqkfefhkfnfwqefrefrtulqlr.v
wkrnul.rs

Ko.zqi.lpuqknqe..kqenr.qa.nah.sqYnrqko.qenwkqaprkqko.w.qv.r.qwkprtul
i.ynr.qko.e,qefrefrtulqtubtwktujkqxf.wktnuw,qgpb.b,qopllprb,qfujh.pus
Nu.qepuqtuq.c.utulqbr.wwqapww.bqko.eqnuqynnk,qotwq.z.wqnuqko.qlrnfubs
Ko.zqo.prbqotwqcntj.,qpub,qhnn tulqipj qpkqote,qwpvqnu.qopubqjhfkjo.b
tuqotwqoptrqpubqko.qnko.rqi.pktulqtuctwtih.qkotulwsqOtwqaprnmzweqny
rpl.qnc.r,qo.qv.ukqnuqotwqvpzqvtkonfkqnuj.qhnn tulqipj s

Pwqezqirnko.r’wqaprkzqv.ukqnuqknvprbwqko.qjrnwwrnpbwqknqko.qwnfkoqny
Ipru.kqko.zqwpvqpqvnepuqpaarnpjotulqko.qrnpbqpjrnwwqwne.qyt.hbwqnu
ko.trqh.yk,qjprrztulqpqjothbqpubqvtkoqkvnqnko.rqjothbr.u;qpubqko.u
apww.bqpqepuqtuqbtrkzqihpj ,qvtkoqpqkotj qwktj qtuqnu.qopubqpubqpqwephh
anrkepuk.pfqtuqko.qnko.rsqKo.uqrnfubqko.qjnru.rqnyqko.qhpu.,qyrne
i.kv..uqko.qcthhpwqkopkqlfprb.bqtkqpkqtkwqjnuyhf.uj.qvtkoqko.qotlo
rnpb,qjpe.qpqhtkkh.qjprkqbrpvuqizqpqwv.pktulqihpj qanuzqpubqbrtc.uqizqp
wphhnvqznfkoqtuqpqinvh.rqopk,qlr.zqvtkoqbfwksqKo.r.qv.r.qkor..qltrhw,
.pwkq.ubqypjknrzqltrhw,qpubqpqjnfah.qnyqhtkkh.qjothbr.uqjrnvb.bqtuqko.
jprks

“Kotw’hhqkt .qfwqrpoubq.blvpr.?”qpw .bqko.qbrtc.r,qvthb-.z.b,
votk.-ypj.b;qpubqvo.uqezqirnko.rqknhbqoteqtkqvnfhbqtyqo.qkfru.bqknqko.
h.yk,qo.qvotaa.bqfaqpkqnuj.qvtkonfkqko.qynrephtkzqnyqkopu ws

Ezqirnko.rqunktj.bqpqaph.qlr.zqwen .qnrqopd.qrtwtulqpenulqko.qonfw.wqtu
yrnukqnyqko.e,qpubqc.thtulqko.qvotk.qypçpb.qnyqpqk.rrpj.qi.znubqko.
rnpbqkopkqpaa.pr.bqi.kv..uqko.qipj wqnyqko.qcthhpwsqErwsq.haotuwknu.
wfbb.uhzqjrt.bqnfkqpkqpqufei.rqnyqknulf.wqnyqwen zqr.bqyhpe.qh.patulqfa
pinc.qko.qonfw.wqtuqyrnukqnyqko.eqplptuwkqko.qonk,qihf.qw zsqKo.
kfefhkfnfwquntw.qr.wnhc.bqtkw.hyqunvqtuknqko.qbtwnrb.rhzqetulhtulqny
epuzqcntj.w,qko.qlrtb.qnyqepuzqvo..hw,qko.qjr.p tulqnyqvpllnuw,qpubqko.
wkpjjpknqnyqonnywsqKo.qhpu.qjpe.qrnfubqwoprahzqunkqytykzqzprbwqyrneqko.
jrnwwrnpbws

“Lnnbqo.pc.uw!”qjrt.bqErwsq.haotuwknu.sq“Vopkqtwqkotwqznfqpr.qbrtctul
fwqtukn?”

Ezqirnko.rqwknaa.bs

Ynrqko.qeptuqrnpbqvpwqpqinthtulqwkr.peqnyqa.nah.,qpqknrr.ukqnyqofepu
i.tulwqrfwotulqunrkovprb,qnu.qar.wwtulqnuqpunko.rsqPqlr.pkqipu qny
bfwk,qvotk.qpubqhfetunfwqtuqko.qihpd.qnyqko.qwfu,qepb.q.c.rzkotul
vtkotuqkv.ukzqy..kqnyqko.qlrnfubqlr.zqpubqtubtwktujkqpubqvpw
a.ra.kfphhzqr.u.v.bqizqko.qofrrztulqy..kqnyqpqb.uw.qjrnvbqnyqonrw.wqpub
nyqe.uqpubqvne.uqnuqynnk,qpubqizqko.qvo..hwqnyqc.otjh.wqnyq.c.rz
b.wjrtaktnus

“Vpz!”qezqirnko.rqo.prbqcntj.wqjrztulsq“Ep .qvpz!”

Tkqvpwqht .qrtbtulqtuknqko.qwen .qnyqpqytr.qknqpaarnpjoqko.qe..ktul
antukqnyqko.qhpu.qpubqrnpb;qko.qjrnvbqrnpr.bqht .qpqytr.,qpubqko.qbfwk
vpwqonkqpubqaful.uksqPub,qtub..b,qpqhtkkh.qvpzqfaqko.qrnpbqpqcthhpqvpw
ifrutulqpubqw.ubtulqrnhhtulqepww.wqnyqihpj qwen .qpjrnwwqko.qrnpbqkn
pbbqknqko.qjnuyfwtnus

Kvnqe.uqjpe.qapwkqko.esqKo.uqpqbtrkzqvnepu,qjprrztulqpqo.pczqifubh.qpub
v..atulsqPqhnwkqr.krt.c.rqbnl,qvtkoqopultulqknulf.,qjtrjh.bqbfitnfwhz
rnfubqko.e,qwjpr.bqpubqvr.kjo.b,qpubqyh.bqpkqezqirnko.r’wqkor.pks

Wnqefjoqpwqko.zqjnfhbqw..qnyqko.qrnpbqHnubnuvprbqi.kv..uqko.qonfw.wqkn
ko.qrtlokqvpwqpqkfefhkfnfwqwkr.peqnyqbtrkz,qofrrztulqa.nah.,qa.ukqtu
i.kv..uqko.qcthhpwqnuq.tko.rqwtb.;qko.qihpj qo.pbw,qko.qjrnvb.bqynrew,
lr.vqtuknqbtwktujku.wwqpwqko.zqrfwo.bqknvprbwqko.qjnru.r,qofrrt.bqapwk,
pubqe.rl.bqko.trqtubtctbfphtkzqplptuqtuqpqr.j.btulqefhktkfb.qkopkqvpw
wvphhnv.bqfaqpkqhpwkqtuqpqjhnfbqnyqbfwks

“Lnqnu!qLnqnu!”qjrt.bqko.qcntj.wsq“Vpz!qVpz!”

Nu.qepu’wqopubwqar.ww.bqnuqko.qipj qnyqpunko.rsqEzqirnko.rqwknnbqpkqko.
anuz’wqo.pbsqTrr.wtwktihzqpkkrpjk.b,qo.qpbcpuj.bqwhnvhz,qapj.qizqapj.,
bnvuqko.qhpu.s

.blvpr.qopbqi..uqpqwj.u.qnyqjnuyfwtnu,qJoph qYpreqpqrtnknfwqkfefhk,qifk
kotwqvpwqpqvonh.qanafhpktnuqtuqenc.e.uksqTkqtwqoprbqknqtepltu.qkopk
onwksqTkqopbqunqjoprpjk.rqnyqtkwqnvusqKo.qytlfr.wqanfr.bqnfkqapwkqko.
jnru.r,qpubqr.j.b.bqvtkoqko.trqipj wqknqko.qlrnfaqtuqko.qhpu.sqPhnul
ko.qeprltuqjpe.qkonw.qvonqv.r.qnuqynnkqkor.pk.u.bqizqko.qvo..hw,
wkfeihtulqtuqko.qbtkjo.w,qihfub.rtulqtuknqnu.qpunko.rs

Ko.qjprkwqpubqjprrtpl.wqjrnvb.bqjhnw.qfanuqnu.qpunko.r,qep tulqhtkkh.
vpzqynrqkonw.qwvtyk.rqpubqenr.qteapkt.ukqc.otjh.wqkopkqbprk.bqynrvprb
.c.rzqunvqpubqko.uqvo.uqpuqnaanrkfutkzqwonv.bqtkw.hyqnyqbntulqwn,
w.ubtulqko.qa.nah.qwjpkk.rtulqplptuwkqko.qy.uj.wqpubqlpk.wqnyqko.
cthhpws

“Afwoqnu!”qvpwqko.qjrzsq“Afwoqnu!qKo.zqpr.qjnetul!”

Tuqnu.qjprkqwknnbqpqihtubqepuqtuqko.qfutynreqnyqko.qWphcpktnuqPrez,
l.wktjfhpktulqvtkoqotwqjrnn .bqytul.rwqpubqipvhtul,q“.k.rutkz!
.k.rutkz!”qOtwqcntj.qvpwqonprw.qpubqc.rzqhnfbqwnqkopkqezqirnko.rqjnfhb
o.prqoteqhnulqpyk.rqo.qvpwqhnwkqknqwtlokqtuqko.qbfwksqWne.qnyqko.
a.nah.qvonqjrnvb.bqtuqko.qjprkwqvotaa.bqwkfatbhzqpkqko.trqonrw.wqpub
xfprr.hh.bqvtkoqnko.rqbrtc.rw;qwne.qwpkqenktnuh.ww,qwkprtulqpkqunkotul
vtkoqetw.rpih.q.z.w;qwne.qlupv.bqko.trqopubwqvtkoqkotrwk,qnrqhpz
arnwkrpk.qtuqko.qinkknewqnyqko.trqjnuc.zpuj.wsqKo.qonrw.w’qitkwqv.r.
jnc.r.bqvtkoqynpe,qko.trq.z.wqihnnbwonks

Ko.r.qv.r.qjpiw,qjprrtpl.w,qwona-jprkw,qvpllnuw,qi.znubqjnfuktul;qp
epthqjprk,qpqrnpb-jh.pu.r’wqjprkqepr .bq“C.wkrzqnyqWksqApujrpw,”qpqofl.
ktei.rqvpllnuqjrnvb.bqvtkoqrnflowsqPqir.v.r’wqbrpzqrfeih.bqizqvtkoqtkw
kvnqu.prqvo..hwqwahpwo.bqvtkoqyr.woqihnnbs

“Jh.prqko.qvpz!”qjrt.bqko.qcntj.wsq“Jh.prqko.qvpz!”

“.k.r-utkz!q.k.r-utkz!”qjpe.q.jontulqbnvuqko.qrnpbs

Ko.r.qv.r.qwpb,qopllprbqvne.uqkrpeatulqiz,qv.hhqbr.ww.b,qvtkoqjothbr.u
kopkqjrt.bqpubqwkfeih.b,qko.trqbptukzqjhnko.wqwenko.r.bqtuqbfwk,qko.tr
v.przqypj.wqwe.pr.bqvtkoqk.prwsqVtkoqepuzqnyqko.w.qjpe.qe.u,qwne.kte.w
o.hayfh,qwne.kte.wqhnv.rtulqpubqwpcpl.sqYtloktulqwtb.qizqwtb.qvtkoqko.e
afwo.bqwne.qv.przqwkr..kqnfkjpwkqtuqypb.bqihpj qrplw,qvtb.-.z.b,
hnfb-cntj.b,qpubqynfh-enfko.bsqKo.r.qv.r.qwkfrbzqvnr e.uqkorfwktul
ko.trqvpzqphnul,qvr.kjo.b,qfu .eakqe.u,qjhnko.bqht .qjh.r wqnrqwonae.u,
wkrfllhtulqwapwenbtjphhz;qpqvnfub.bqwnhbt.rqezqirnko.rqunktj.b,qe.u
br.ww.bqtuqko.qjhnko.wqnyqrpthvpzqanrk.rw,qnu.qvr.kjo.bqjr.pkfr.qtuqp
utlokwotrkqvtkoqpqjnpkqkornvuqnc.rqtks

Ifkqcprt.bqpwqtkwqjneanwtktnuqvpw,qj.rkptuqkotulwqphhqkopkqonwkqopbqtu
jneenusqKo.r.qv.r.qy.prqpubqaptuqnuqko.trqypj.w,qpubqy.prqi.otubqko.es
Pqkfefhkqfaqko.qrnpb,qpqxfprr.hqynrqpqahpj.qtuqpqvpllnu,qw.ukqko.qvonh.
onwkqnyqko.eqxftj .utulqko.trqapj.;q.c.uqpqepuqwnqwjpr.bqpubqirn .u
kopkqotwq u..wqi.ukqfub.rqoteqvpwqlphcputw.bqynrqpqene.ukqtuknqr.u.v.b
pjktctkzsqKo.qo.pkqpubqbfwkqopbqphr.pbzqi..uqpkqvnr qfanuqkotw
efhktkfb.sqKo.trqw tuwqv.r.qbrz,qko.trqhtawqihpj qpubqjrpj .bsqKo.z
v.r.qphhqkotrwkz,qv.prz,qpubqynnkwnr.sqPubqpetbqko.qcprtnfwqjrt.wqnu.
o.prbqbtwafk.w,qr.arnpjo.w,qlrnpuwqnyqv.prtu.wwqpubqypktlf.;qko.qcntj.w
nyqenwkqnyqko.eqv.r.qonprw.qpubqv.p sqKornfloqtkqphhqrpuqpqr.yrptu:

“Vpz!qVpz!qKo.qEprktpuwqpr.qjnetul!”

Y.vqwknaa.bqpubqjpe.qpwtb.qyrneqkopkqyhnnbsqKo.qhpu.qna.u.bqwhpuktulhz
tuknqko.qeptuqrnpbqvtkoqpquprrnvqna.utul,qpubqopbqpqb.hfwtc.qpaa.prpuj.
nyqjnetulqyrneqko.qbtr.jktnuqnyqHnubnusqZ.kqpq tubqnyq.bbzqnyqa.nah.
brnc.qtuknqtkwqenfko;qv.p htulwq.hinv.bqnfkqnyqko.qwkr.pe,qvonqynrqko.
enwkqaprkqr.wk.bqifkqpqene.ukqi.ynr.qahfultulqtuknqtkqplptusqPqhtkkh.
vpzqbnvuqko.qhpu.,qvtkoqkvnqyrt.ubwqi.ubtulqnc.rqote,qhpzqpqepuqvtkoqp
ipr.qh.l,qvrpaa.bqpinfkqvtkoqihnnbzqrplwsqO.qvpwqpqhfj zqepuqknqopc.
yrt.ubws

Pqhtkkh.qnhbqepu,qvtkoqpqlr.zqethtkprzqenfwkpjo.qpubqpqythkozqihpj 
yrnj qjnpk,qhtea.bqnfkqpubqwpkqbnvuqi.wtb.qko.qkrpa,qr.enc.bqotw
innk—otwqwnj qvpwqihnnb-wkptu.b—wonn qnfkqpqa.iih.,qpubqoniih.bqnu
plptu;qpubqko.uqpqhtkkh.qltrhqnyq.tlokqnrqutu.,qphhqphnu.,qkor.v
o.rw.hyqfub.rqko.qo.bl.qjhnw.qizqezqirnko.r,qv..atuls

“Tqjpu’kqlnqnu!qTqjpu’kqlnqnu!”

Ezqirnko.rqvn .qyrneqotwqknranrqnyqpwknutwoe.ukqpubqhtyk.bqo.rqfa,
wa.p tulql.ukhzqknqo.r,qpubqjprrt.bqo.rqknqEtwwq.haotuwknu.sqWnqwnnuqpw
ezqirnko.rqknfjo.bqo.rqwo.qi.jpe.qxftk.qwkthh,qpwqtyqyrtlok.u.bs

“.hh.u!”qwort. .bqpqvnepuqtuqko.qjrnvb,qvtkoqk.prwqtuqo.r
cntj.—“.hh.u!”qPubqko.qjothbqwfbb.uhzqbprk.bqpvpzqyrneqezqirnko.r,
jrztulq“Enko.r!”

“Ko.zqpr.qjnetul,”qwptbqpqepuqnuqonrw.ipj ,qrtbtulqapwkqphnulqko.qhpu.s

“Nfkqnyqko.qvpz,qko.r.!”qipvh.bqpqjnpjoepu,qknv.rtulqotlo;qpubqez
irnko.rqwpvqpqjhnw.bqjprrtpl.qkfrutulqtuknqko.qhpu.s

Ko.qa.nah.qjrfwo.bqipj qnuqnu.qpunko.rqknqpcntbqko.qonrw.sqEzqirnko.r
afwo.bqko.qanuzqpubqjoptw.qipj qtuknqko.qo.bl.,qpubqko.qepuqbrnc.qiz
pubqwknaa.bqpkqko.qkfruqnyqko.qvpzsqTkqvpwqpqjprrtpl.,qvtkoqpqanh.qynr
pqaptrqnyqonrw.w,qifkqnuhzqnu.qvpwqtuqko.qkrpj.wsqEzqirnko.rqwpvqbtehz
kornfloqko.qbfwkqkopkqkvnqe.uqhtyk.bqnfkqwne.kotulqnuqpqvotk.qwkr.kjo.r
pubqafkqtkql.ukhzqnuqko.qlrpwwqi.u.pkoqko.qartc.kqo.bl.s

Nu.qnyqko.qe.uqjpe.qrfuutulqknqezqirnko.rs

“Vo.r.qtwqko.r.qpuzqvpk.r?”qo.qwptbsq“O.qtwqbztulqypwk,qpubqc.rz
kotrwkzsqTkqtwqHnrbqLprrtj s”

“HnrbqLprrtj !”qwptbqezqirnko.r;q“ko.qJot.yqGfwktj.?”

“Ko.qvpk.r?”qo.qwptbs

“Ko.r.qepzqi.qpqkpa,”qwptbqezqirnko.r,q“tuqwne.qnyqko.qonfw.wsqV.qopc.
unqvpk.rsqTqbpr.qunkqh.pc.qezqa.nah.s”

Ko.qepuqafwo.bqplptuwkqko.qjrnvbqknvprbwqko.qlpk.qnyqko.qjnru.rqonfw.s

“Lnqnu!”qwptbqko.qa.nah.,qkorfwktulqpkqotesq“Ko.zqpr.qjnetul!qLnqnu!”

Ko.uqezqirnko.r’wqpkk.uktnuqvpwqbtwkrpjk.bqizqpqi.prb.b,q.plh.-ypj.b
epuqhflltulqpqwephhqopubipl,qvotjoqwahtkq.c.uqpwqezqirnko.r’wq.z.w
r.wk.bqnuqtkqpubqbtwlnrl.bqpqepwwqnyqwnc.r.tluwqkopkqw..e.bqknqir.p qfa
tuknqw.aprpk.qjntuwqpwqtkqwkrfj qko.qlrnfubsqKo.zqrnhh.bqotko.rqpub
kotko.rqpenulqko.qwkrfllhtulqy..kqnyqe.uqpubqonrw.wsqKo.qepuqwknaa.b
pubqhnn .bqwkfatbhzqpkqko.qo.pa,qpubqko.qwopykqnyqpqjpiqwkrfj qotw
wonfhb.rqpubqw.ukqoteqr..htulsqO.qlpc.qpqwort. qpubqbnbl.bqipj ,qpubqp
jprkvo..hqwopc.bqotequprrnvhzs

“Vpz!”qjrt.bqko.qe.uqphhqpinfkqotesq“Ep .qvpz!”

Wnqwnnuqpwqko.qjpiqopbqapww.b,qo.qyhfulqotew.hy,qvtkoqinkoqopubwqna.u,
fanuqko.qo.paqnyqjntuw,qpubqi.lpuqkorfwktulqopubyfhwqtuqotwqanj .ksqP
onrw.qrnw.qjhnw.qfanuqote,qpubqtuqpunko.rqene.uk,qophyqrtwtul,qo.qopb
i..uqinru.qbnvuqfub.rqko.qonrw.’wqonnyws

“Wkna!”qwjr.pe.bqezqirnko.r,qpubqafwotulqpqvnepuqnfkqnyqotwqvpz,qkrt.b
knqjhfkjoqko.qitkqnyqko.qonrw.s

I.ynr.qo.qjnfhbql.kqknqtk,qo.qo.prbqpqwjr.peqfub.rqko.qvo..hw,qpubqwpv
kornfloqko.qbfwkqko.qrteqapwwtulqnc.rqko.qannrqvr.kjo’wqipj sqKo.
brtc.rqnyqko.qjprkqwhpwo.bqotwqvotaqpkqezqirnko.r,qvonqrpuqrnfubqi.otub
ko.qjprksqKo.qefhktkfbtunfwqwonfktulqjnuyfw.bqotwq.prwsqKo.qepuqvpw
vrtkotulqtuqko.qbfwkqpenulqotwqwjpkk.r.bqenu.z,qfupih.qknqrtw.,qynrqko.
vo..hqopbqirn .uqotwqipj ,qpubqotwqhnv.rqhteiwqhpzqhteaqpubqb.pbsqEz
irnko.rqwknnbqfaqpubqz.hh.bqpkqko.qu.mkqbrtc.r,qpubqpqepuqnuqpqihpj 
onrw.qjpe.qknqotwqpwwtwkpuj.s

“L.kqoteqnfkqnyqko.qrnpb,”qwptbqo.;qpub,qjhfkjotulqko.qepu’wqjnhhpr
vtkoqotwqyr..qopub,qezqirnko.rqhfll.bqoteqwtb.vpzwsqIfkqo.qwkthh
jhfkjo.bqpyk.rqotwqenu.z,qpubqr.lprb.bqezqirnko.rqyt.rj.hz,qopee.rtul
pkqotwqpreqvtkoqpqopubyfhqnyqlnhbsq“Lnqnu!qLnqnu!”qwonfk.bqpulrzqcntj.w
i.otubsq“Vpz!qVpz!”

Ko.r.qvpwqpqwepwoqpwqko.qanh.qnyqpqjprrtpl.qjrpwo.bqtuknqko.qjprkqkopk
ko.qepuqnuqonrw.ipj qwknaa.bsqEzqirnko.rqhnn .bqfa,qpubqko.qepuqvtko
ko.qlnhbqkvtwk.bqotwqo.pbqrnfubqpubqitkqko.qvrtwkqkopkqo.hbqotwqjnhhprs
Ko.r.qvpwqpqjnujfwwtnu,qpubqko.qihpj qonrw.qjpe.qwkpll.rtulqwtb.vpzw,
pubqko.qjprkonrw.qafwo.bqi.wtb.qtksqPqonnyqetww.bqezqirnko.r’wqynnkqiz
pqoptr’wqir.pbkosqO.qr.h.pw.bqotwqlrtaqnuqko.qyphh.uqepuqpubqgfea.b
ipj sqO.qwpvqpul.rqjopul.qknqk.rrnrqnuqko.qypj.qnyqko.qannrqvr.kjoqnu
ko.qlrnfub,qpubqtuqpqene.ukqo.qvpwqotbb.uqpubqezqirnko.rqvpwqinru.
ipj vprbqpubqjprrt.bqapwkqko.q.ukrpuj.qnyqko.qhpu.,qpubqopbqknqytlok
oprbqtuqko.qknrr.ukqknqr.jnc.rqtks

O.qwpvqEtwwq.haotuwknu.qjnc.rtulqo.rq.z.w,qpubqpqhtkkh.qjothb,qvtkoqphh
pqjothb’wqvpukqnyqwzeapko.ktjqtepltupktnu,qwkprtulqvtkoqbthpk.bq.z.wqpk
pqbfwkzqwne.kotulqkopkqhpzqihpj qpubqwkthh,qlrnfubqpubqjrfwo.bqfub.r
ko.qrnhhtulqvo..hwsq“H.kqfwqlnqipj !”qo.qwonfk.b,qpubqi.lpuqkfrutulqko.
anuzqrnfubsq“V.qjpuunkqjrnwwqkotw—o.hh,”qo.qwptbqpubqko.zqv.ukqipj qp
ofubr.bqzprbwqko.qvpzqko.zqopbqjne.,qfukthqko.qytloktulqjrnvbqvpw
otbb.usqPwqko.zqapww.bqko.qi.ubqtuqko.qhpu.qezqirnko.rqwpvqko.qypj.qny
ko.qbztulqepuqtuqko.qbtkjoqfub.rqko.qartc.k,qb.pbhzqvotk.qpubqbrpvu,
pubqwotutulqvtkoqa.rwatrpktnusqKo.qkvnqvne.uqwpkqwth.uk,qjrnfjotulqtu
ko.trqw.pkqpubqwotc.rtuls

Ko.uqi.znubqko.qi.ubqezqirnko.rqwknaa.bqplptusqEtwwq.haotuwknu.qvpw
votk.qpubqaph.,qpubqo.rqwtwk.r-tu-hpvqwpkqv..atul,qknnqvr.kjo.bq.c.uqkn
jphhqfanuq“L.nrl.s”qEzqirnko.rqvpwqonrrtyt.bqpubqa.rah.m.bsqWnqwnnuqpw
ko.zqopbqr.kr.pk.bqo.qr.phtw.bqonvqfrl.ukqpubqfupcntbpih.qtkqvpwqkn
pkk.eakqkotwqjrnwwtulsqO.qkfru.bqknqEtwwq.haotuwknu.,qwfbb.uhz
r.wnhfk.s

“V.qefwkqlnqkopkqvpz,”qo.qwptb,qpubqh.bqko.qanuzqrnfubqplptus

Ynrqko.qw.jnubqkte.qkopkqbpzqkotwqltrhqarnc.bqo.rqxfphtkzsqKnqynrj.
ko.trqvpzqtuknqko.qknrr.ukqnyqa.nah.,qezqirnko.rqahful.bqtuknqko.
krpyytjqpubqo.hbqipj qpqjpiqonrw.,qvoth.qwo.qbrnc.qko.qanuzqpjrnwwqtkw
o.pbsqPqvpllnuqhnj .bqvo..hwqynrqpqene.ukqpubqrtaa.bqpqhnulqwahtuk.r
yrneqko.qjoptw.sqTuqpunko.rqene.ukqko.zqv.r.qjpflokqpubqwv.akqynrvprb
izqko.qwkr.pesqEzqirnko.r,qvtkoqko.qjpiepu’wqvotaqepr wqr.bqpjrnwwqotw
ypj.qpubqopubw,qwjrpeih.bqtuknqko.qjoptw.qpubqknn qko.qr.tuwqyrneqo.rs

“Antukqko.qr.cnhc.rqpkqko.qepuqi.otub,”qo.qwptb,qltctulqtkqknqo.r,q“ty
o.qar.ww.wqfwqknnqoprbsqUn!—antukqtkqpkqotwqonrw.s”

Ko.uqo.qi.lpuqknqhnn qnfkqynrqpqjopuj.qnyq.bltulqknqko.qrtlokqpjrnww
ko.qrnpbsqIfkqnuj.qtuqko.qwkr.peqo.qw..e.bqknqhnw.qcnhtktnu,qknqi.jne.
pqaprkqnyqkopkqbfwkzqrnfksqKo.zqwv.akqkornfloqJotaatulqIpru.kqvtkoqko.
knrr.uk;qko.zqv.r.qu.prhzqpqeth.qi.znubqko.qj.ukr.qnyqko.qknvuqi.ynr.
ko.zqopbqynflokqpjrnwwqknqko.qnaanwtk.qwtb.qnyqko.qvpzsqTkqvpwqbtuqpub
jnuyfwtnuqtub.wjrtipih.;qifkqtuqpubqi.znubqko.qknvuqko.qrnpbqynr w
r.a.pk.bhz,qpubqkotwqknqwne.q.mk.ukqr.ht.c.bqko.qwkr.wws

Ko.zqwkrfj q.pwkvprbqkornfloqOpbh.z,qpubqko.r.qnuq.tko.rqwtb.qnyqko.
rnpb,qpubqpkqpunko.rqahpj.qyprko.rqnuqko.zqjpe.qfanuqpqlr.pkqefhktkfb.
nyqa.nah.qbrtu tulqpkqko.qwkr.pe,qwne.qytloktulqknqjne.qpkqko.qvpk.rs
Pubqyprko.rqnu,qyrneqpqhfhhqu.prq.pwkqIpru.k,qko.zqwpvqkvnqkrptuw
rfuutulqwhnvhzqnu.qpyk.rqko.qnko.rqvtkonfkqwtluphqnrqnrb.r—krptuw
wvpretulqvtkoqa.nah.,qvtkoqe.uq.c.uqpenulqko.qjnphwqi.otubqko.
.ultu.w—lntulqunrkovprbqphnulqko.qLr.pkqUnrko.ruqRpthvpzsqEzqirnko.r
wfaanw.wqko.zqefwkqopc.qythh.bqnfkwtb.qHnubnu,qynrqpkqkopkqkte.qko.
yfrtnfwqk.rrnrqnyqko.qa.nah.qopbqr.ub.r.bqko.qj.ukrphqk.retut
teanwwtih.s

U.prqkotwqahpj.qko.zqophk.bqynrqko.qr.wkqnyqko.qpyk.runnu,qynrqko.
ctnh.uj.qnyqko.qbpzqopbqphr.pbzqfkk.rhzq.mopfwk.bqphhqkor..qnyqko.es
Ko.zqi.lpuqknqwfyy.rqko.qi.ltuutulwqnyqoful.r;qko.qutlokqvpwqjnhb,qpub
unu.qnyqko.eqbpr.bqknqwh..asqPubqtuqko.q.c.utulqepuzqa.nah.qjpe.
ofrrztulqphnulqko.qrnpbqu.prizqko.trqwknaatulqahpj.,qyh..tulqyrne
fu unvuqbpul.rwqi.ynr.qko.e,qpubqlntulqtuqko.qbtr.jktnuqyrneqvotjoqez
irnko.rqopbqjne.s


MCTTs

KO.q“KOFUB.RqJOTHB”s

Opbqko.qEprktpuwqpte.bqnuhzqpkqb.wkrfjktnu,qko.zqetlokqnuqEnubpzqopc.
puutothpk.bqko.q.uktr.qanafhpktnuqnyqHnubnu,qpwqtkqwar.pbqtkw.hyqwhnvhz
kornfloqko.qone.qjnfukt.wsqUnkqnuhzqphnulqko.qrnpbqkornfloqIpru.k,qifk
phwnqkornfloq.blvpr.qpubqVphkopeqPii.z,qpubqphnulqko.qrnpbwq.pwkvprbqkn
Wnfko.ubqpubqWon.ifrzu.ww,qpubqwnfkoqnyqko.qKope.wqknqB.phqpub
Irnpbwkptrw,qanfr.bqko.qwpe.qyrpuktjqrnfksqTyqnu.qjnfhbqopc.qofulqkopk
Gfu.qenrutulqtuqpqiphhnnuqtuqko.qihpdtulqihf.qpinc.qHnubnuq.c.rz
unrkovprbqpubq.pwkvprbqrnpbqrfuutulqnfkqnyqko.qkpulh.bqepd.qnyqwkr..kw
vnfhbqopc.qw..e.bqwktaah.bqihpj qvtkoqko.qwkr.petulqyfltktc.w,q.pjoqbnk
pqofepuqplnuzqnyqk.rrnrqpubqaozwtjphqbtwkr.wwsqTqopc.qw.kqynrkoqpk
h.ulkoqtuqko.qhpwkqjopak.rqezqirnko.r’wqpjjnfukqnyqko.qrnpbqkornflo
JotaatulqIpru.k,qtuqnrb.rqkopkqezqr.pb.rwqepzqr.phtw.qonvqkopkqwvpretul
nyqihpj qbnkwqpaa.pr.bqknqnu.qnyqkonw.qjnuj.ru.bsqU.c.rqi.ynr.qtuqko.
otwknrzqnyqko.qvnrhbqopbqwfjoqpqepwwqnyqofepuqi.tulwqenc.bqpubqwfyy.r.b
knl.ko.rsqKo.qh.l.ubprzqonwkwqnyqLnkowqpubqOfuw,qko.qofl.wkqpret.wqPwtp
opwq.c.rqw..u,qvnfhbqopc.qi..uqifkqpqbrnaqtuqkopkqjfrr.uksqPubqkotwqvpw
unqbtwjtahtu.bqeprjo;qtkqvpwqpqwkpea.b.—pqwkpea.b.qltlpuktjqpub
k.rrtih.—vtkonfkqnrb.rqpubqvtkonfkqpqlnph,qwtmqethhtnuqa.nah.qfupre.b
pubqfuarnctwtnu.b,qbrtctulqo.pbhnulsqTkqvpwqko.qi.ltuutulqnyqko.qrnfk
nyqjtcthtwpktnu,qnyqko.qepwwpjr.qnyqepu tubs

Btr.jkhzqi.hnvqoteqko.qiphhnnutwkqvnfhbqopc.qw..uqko.qu.kvnr qny
wkr..kwqyprqpubqvtb.,qonfw.w,qjofrjo.w,qwxfpr.w,qjr.wj.ukw,
lprb.uw—phr.pbzqb.r.htjk—war.pbqnfkqht .qpqofl.qepa,qpubqtuqko.
wnfkovprbq_ihnkk.b_sqNc.rq.phtul,qRtjoenub,qVteih.bnu,qtkqvnfhbqopc.
w..e.bqpwqtyqwne.qenuwkrnfwqa.uqopbqyhfulqtu qfanuqko.qjoprksqWk.pbthz,
tuj.wwpukhz,q.pjoqihpj qwahpwoqlr.vqpubqwar.pb,qwonnktulqnfk
rpetytjpktnuwqkotwqvpzqpubqkopk,qunvqipu tulqtkw.hyqplptuwkqrtwtul
lrnfub,qunvqanfrtulqwvtykhzqnc.rqpqjr.wkqtuknqpqu.v-ynfubqcphh.z,
.mpjkhzqpwqpqlnfkqnyqtu qvnfhbqwar.pbqtkw.hyqfanuqihnkktulqapa.rs

Pubqi.znub,qnc.rqko.qihf.qothhwqkopkqrtw.qwnfkovprbqnyqko.qrtc.r,qko.
lhtkk.rtulqEprktpuwqv.ukqknqpubqyrn,qjphehzqpubqe.konbtjphhzqwar.pbtul
ko.trqantwnuqjhnfbqnc.rqkotwqapkjoqnyqjnfukrzqpubqko.uqnc.rqkopk,
hpztulqtkqplptuqvtkoqko.trqwk.peqg.kwqvo.uqtkqopbqw.rc.bqtkwqafranw.,
pubqkp tulqanww.wwtnuqnyqko.qjnuxf.r.bqjnfukrzsqKo.zqbnqunkqw..eqkn
opc.qpte.bqpkq.mk.retupktnuqwnqefjoqpwqpkqjneah.k.qb.enrphtwpktnuqpub
ko.qb.wkrfjktnuqnyqpuzqnaanwtktnusqKo.zq.mahnb.bqpuzqwknr.wqnyqanvb.r
ko.zqjpe.qfanu,qjfkq.c.rzqk.h.lrpao,qpubqvr.j .bqko.qrpthvpzwqo.r.qpub
ko.r.sqKo.zqv.r.qopewkrtultulqepu tubsqKo.zqw..e.bqtuqunqofrrzqkn
.mk.ubqko.qyt.hbqnyqko.trqna.rpktnuw,qpubqbtbqunkqjne.qi.znubqko.
j.ukrphqaprkqnyqHnubnuqphhqkopkqbpzsqTkqtwqanwwtih.qkopkqpqc.rz
jnuwtb.rpih.qufei.rqnyqa.nah.qtuqHnubnuqwkfj qknqko.trqonfw.wqkornflo
EnubpzqenrutulsqJ.rkptuqtkqtwqkopkqepuzqbt.bqpkqone.qwfyynjpk.bqizqko.
Ihpj qWen .s

Fukthqpinfkqetbbpzqko.qAnnhqnyqHnubnuqvpwqpuqpwknutwotulqwj.u.s
Wk.peinpkwqpubqwotaatulqnyqphhqwnrkwqhpzqko.r.,qk.eak.bqizqko.q.unrenfw
wfewqnyqenu.zqnyy.r.bqizqyfltktc.w,qpubqtkqtwqwptbqkopkqepuzqvonqwvpe
nfkqknqko.w.qc.ww.hwqv.r.qkorfwkqnyyqvtkoqinpkonn wqpubqbrnvu.bsqPinfk
nu.qn’jhnj qtuqko.qpyk.runnuqko.qkotuutulqr.eupukqnyqpqjhnfbqnyqko.
ihpj qcpanfrqpaa.pr.bqi.kv..uqko.qprjo.wqnyqIhpj yrtprwqIrtbl.sqPkqkopk
ko.qAnnhqi.jpe.qpqwj.u.qnyqepbqjnuyfwtnu,qytloktul,qpubqjnhhtwtnu,qpub
ynrqwne.qkte.qpqefhktkfb.qnyqinpkwqpubqiprl.wqgpee.bqtuqko.qunrko.ru
prjoqnyqko.qKnv.rqIrtbl.,qpubqko.qwpthnrwqpubqhtlok.re.uqopbqknqytlok
wpcpl.hzqplptuwkqko.qa.nah.qvonqwvpre.bqfanuqko.eqyrneqko.qrtc.ryrnuks
A.nah.qv.r.qpjkfphhzqjhpei.rtulqbnvuqko.qat.rwqnyqko.qirtbl.qyrne
pinc.s

Vo.u,qpuqonfrqhpk.r,qpqEprktpuqpaa.pr.bqi.znubqko.qJhnj qKnv.rqpub
vpb.bqbnvuqko.qrtc.r,qunkotulqifkqvr.j pl.qyhnpk.bqpinc.qHte.onfw.s

Nyqko.qyphhtulqnyqko.qytykoqjzhtub.rqTqopc.qar.w.ukhzqknqk.hhsqKo.
wtmkoqwkprqy.hhqpkqVteih.bnusqEzqirnko.r,q ..atulqvpkjoqi.wtb.qko.
vne.uqtuqko.qjoptw.qtuqpqe.pbnv,qwpvqko.qlr..uqyhpwoqnyqtkqyprqi.znub
ko.qothhwsqNuqKf.wbpzqko.qhtkkh.qaprkz,qwkthhqw.kqfanuql.kktulqpjrnww
ko.qw.p,qepb.qtkwqvpzqkornfloqko.qwvpretulqjnfukrzqknvprbwqJnhjo.wk.rs
Ko.qu.vwqkopkqko.qEprktpuwqv.r.qunvqtuqanww.wwtnuqnyqko.qvonh.qny
Hnubnuqvpwqjnuytre.bsqKo.zqopbqi..uqw..uqpkqOtlolpk.,qpubq.c.u,qtkqvpw
wptb,qpkqU.pwb.usqIfkqko.zqbtbqunkqjne.qtuknqezqirnko.r’wqct.vqfukth
ko.qenrrnvs

Kopkqbpzqko.qwjpkk.r.bqefhktkfb.wqi.lpuqknqr.phtw.qko.qfrl.ukqu..bqny
arnctwtnuwsqPwqko.zqlr.vqofulrzqko.qrtlokwqnyqarna.rkzqj.pw.bqknqi.
r.lprb.bsqYpre.rwqv.r.qnfkqknqb.y.ubqko.trqjpkkh.-wo.bw,qlrpuprt.w,qpub
rta.utulqrnnkqjrnawqvtkoqprewqtuqko.trqopubwsqPqufei.rqnyqa.nah.qunv,
ht .qezqirnko.r,qopbqko.trqypj.wq.pwkvprb,qpubqko.r.qv.r.qwne.
b.wa.rpk.qwnfhwq.c.uqlntulqipj qknvprbwqHnubnuqknql.kqynnbsqKo.w.qv.r.
jot.yhzqa.nah.qyrneqko.qunrko.ruqwfifriw,qvonw.q unvh.bl.qnyqko.qIhpj 
Wen .qjpe.qizqo.prwpzsqO.qo.prbqkopkqpinfkqophyqko.qe.ei.rwqnyqko.
lnc.rue.ukqopbqlpko.r.bqpkqItretulope,qpubqkopkq.unrenfwqxfpuktkt.wqny
otloq.mahnwtc.wqv.r.qi.tulqar.apr.bqknqi.qfw.bqtuqpfknepktjqetu.w
pjrnwwqko.qEtbhpubqjnfukt.ws

O.qvpwqphwnqknhbqkopkqko.qEtbhpubqRpthvpzqJneapuzqopbqr.ahpj.bqko.
b.w.rktnuwqnyqko.qytrwkqbpz’wqaputj,qopbqr.wfe.bqkrpyytj,qpubqvpw
rfuutulqunrkovprbqkrptuwqyrneqWksqPhipuwqknqr.ht.c.qko.qjnul.wktnuqny
ko.qone.qjnfukt.wsqKo.r.qvpwqphwnqpqahpjprbqtuqJotaatulqNulpr
puunfujtulqkopkqhprl.qwknr.wqnyqyhnfrqv.r.qpcpthpih.qtuqko.qunrko.ru
knvuwqpubqkopkqvtkotuqkv.ukz-ynfrqonfrwqir.pbqvnfhbqi.qbtwkrtifk.b
penulqko.qwkprctulqa.nah.qtuqko.qu.tloinfronnbsqIfkqkotwqtuk.hhtl.uj.
btbqunkqb.k.rqoteqyrneqko.qahpuqnyq.wjpa.qo.qopbqynre.b,qpubqko.qkor..
ar.ww.bq.pwkvprbqphhqbpz,qpubqo.prbqunqenr.qnyqko.qir.pbqbtwkrtifktnu
kopuqkotwqarnetw.sqUnr,qpwqpqepkk.rqnyqypjk,qbtbqpuznu.q.hw.qo.prqenr.
nyqtksqKopkqutlokqy.hhqko.qw.c.ukoqwkpr,qyphhtulqfanuqArternw.qOthhsqTk
y.hhqvoth.qEtwwq.haotuwknu.qvpwqvpkjotul,qynrqwo.qknn qkopkqbfkz
phk.rupk.hzqvtkoqezqirnko.rsqWo.qwpvqtks

NuqV.bu.wbpzqko.qkor..qyfltktc.w—ko.zqopbqapww.bqko.qutlokqtuqpqyt.hb
nyqfurta.qvo.pk—r.pjo.bqJo.hewynrb,qpubqko.r.qpqinbzqnyqko.
tuopitkpukw,qjphhtulqtkw.hyqko.qJneetkk..qnyqAfihtjqWfaahz,qw.td.bqko.
anuzqpwqarnctwtnuw,qpubqvnfhbqltc.qunkotulqtuq.mjopul.qynrqtkqifkqko.
arnetw.qnyqpqwopr.qtuqtkqko.qu.mkqbpzsqO.r.qko.r.qv.r.qrfenfrwqny
Eprktpuwqpkq.aatul,qpubqu.vwqnyqko.qb.wkrfjktnuqnyqVphkopeqPii.zqAnvb.r
Ethhwqtuqpqcptuqpkk.eakqknqihnvqfaqnu.qnyqko.qtucpb.rws

A.nah.qv.r.qvpkjotulqynrqEprktpuwqo.r.qyrneqko.qjofrjoqknv.rwsqEz
irnko.r,qc.rzqhfj thzqynrqoteqpwqtkqjopuj.b,qar.y.rr.bqknqafwoqnuqpk
nuj.qknqko.qjnpwkqrpko.rqkopuqvptkqynrqynnb,qphkonfloqphhqkor..qnyqko.e
v.r.qc.rzqofulrzsqIzqetbbpzqko.zqapww.bqkornfloqKthhtulope,qvotjo,
wkrpul.hzq.unflo,qw..e.bqknqi.qxftk.qwth.ukqpubqb.w.rk.b,qwpc.qynrqp
y.vqyfrktc.qahfub.r.rwqofuktulqynrqynnbsqU.prqKthhtulopeqko.zqwfbb.uhz
jpe.qtuqwtlokqnyqko.qw.p,qpubqko.qenwkqpepdtulqjrnvbqnyqwotaatulqnyqphh
wnrkwqkopkqtkqtwqanwwtih.qknqtepltu.s

Ynrqpyk.rqko.qwpthnrwqjnfhbqunqhnul.rqjne.qfaqko.qKope.w,qko.zqjpe.qnu
knqko.q.ww.mqjnpwk,qknqOprvtjoqpubqVphknuqpubqJhpjknu,qpubqpyk.rvprbw
knqYnfhu.wwqpubqWon.ifrz,qknqirtulqnyyqko.qa.nah.sqKo.zqhpzqtuqpqofl.
wtj h.-wopa.bqjfrc.qkopkqcputwo.bqtuknqetwkqpkqhpwkqknvprbwqko.qUpd.s
Jhnw.qtuwonr.qvpwqpqefhktkfb.qnyqytwotulqwepj w—.ulhtwo,qWjnkjo,
Yr.ujo,qBfkjo,qpubqWv.btwo;qwk.peqhpfujo.wqyrneqko.qKope.w,qzpjokw,
.h.jkrtjqinpkw;qpubqi.znubqv.r.qwotawqnyqhprl.rqifrb.u,qpqefhktkfb.qny
ythkozqjnhht.rw,qkrteqe.rjopuke.u,qjpkkh.qwotaw,qapww.ul.rqinpkw,
a.krnh.feqkpu w,qnj.puqkrpeaw,qpuqnhbqvotk.qkrpuwanrkq.c.u,qu.pkqvotk.
pubqlr.zqhtu.rwqyrneqWnfkopeaknuqpubqOpeifrl;qpubqphnulqko.qihf.qjnpwk
pjrnwwqko.qIhpj vpk.rqezqirnko.rqjnfhbqep .qnfkqbtehzqpqb.uw.qwvpreqny
inpkwqjopyy.rtulqvtkoqko.qa.nah.qnuqko.qi.pjo,qpqwvpreqvotjoqphwn
.mk.ub.bqfaqko.qIhpj vpk.rqphenwkqknqEphbnus

Pinfkqpqjnfah.qnyqeth.wqnfkqhpzqpuqtrnujhpb,qc.rzqhnvqtuqko.qvpk.r,
phenwk,qknqezqirnko.r’wqa.rj.aktnu,qht .qpqvpk.r-hnll.bqwotasqKotwqvpw
ko.qrpeq_Kofub.rqJothb_sqTkqvpwqko.qnuhzqvprwotaqtuqwtlok,qifkqyprqpvpz
knqko.qrtlokqnc.rqko.qwennkoqwfrypj.qnyqko.qw.p—ynrqkopkqbpzqko.r.qvpw
pqb.pbqjphe—hpzqpqw.ra.ukqnyqihpj qwen .qknqepr qko.qu.mkqtrnujhpbwqny
ko.qJopuu.hqYh..k,qvotjoqonc.r.bqtuqpuq.mk.ub.bqhtu.,qwk.peqfaqpub
r.pbzqynrqpjktnu,qpjrnwwqko.qKope.wq.wkfprzqbfrtulqko.qjnfrw.qnyqko.
Eprktpuqjnuxf.wk,qctlthpukqpubqz.kqanv.rh.wwqknqar.c.ukqtks

Pkqko.qwtlokqnyqko.qw.p,qErwsq.haotuwknu.,qtuqwatk.qnyqko.qpwwfrpuj.w
nyqo.rqwtwk.r-tu-hpv,qlpc.qvpzqknqaputjsqWo.qopbqu.c.rqi..uqnfkqny
.ulhpubqi.ynr.,qwo.qvnfhbqrpko.rqbt.qkopuqkrfwkqo.rw.hyqyrt.ubh.wwqtuqp
ynr.tluqjnfukrz,qpubqwnqynrkosqWo.qw..e.b,qannrqvnepu,qknqtepltu.qkopk
ko.qYr.ujoqpubqko.qEprktpuwqetlokqarnc.qc.rzqwtethprsqWo.qopbqi..u
lrnvtulqtujr.pwtulhzqozwk.rtjph,qy.pryfh,qpubqb.ar.ww.bqbfrtulqko.qkvn
bpzw’qgnfru.ztulwsqO.rqlr.pkqtb.pqvpwqknqr.kfruqknqWkpuenr.sqKotulwqopb
i..uqphvpzwqv.hhqpubqwpy.qpkqWkpuenr.sqKo.zqvnfhbqytubqL.nrl.qpk
Wkpuenr.ssss

Tkqvpwqvtkoqko.qlr.pk.wkqbtyytjfhkzqko.zqjnfhbql.kqo.rqbnvuqknqko.
i.pjo,qvo.r.qar.w.ukhzqezqirnko.rqwfjj..b.bqtuqpkkrpjktulqko.qpkk.uktnu
nyqwne.qe.uqnuqpqapbbh.qwk.pe.rqyrneqko.qKope.wsqKo.zqw.ukqpqinpkqpub
brnc.qpqiprlptuqynrqkotrkz-wtmqanfubwqynrqko.qkor..sqKo.qwk.pe.rqvpw
lntul,qko.w.qe.uqwptb,qknqNwk.ubs

Tkqvpwqpinfkqkvnqn’jhnj qvo.uqezqirnko.r,qopctulqaptbqko.trqypr.wqpk
ko.qlpulvpz,qynfubqotew.hyqwpy.hzqpinprbqko.qwk.peinpkqvtkoqotw
joprl.wsqKo.r.qvpwqynnbqpinprb,qphi.tkqpkq.mnritkpukqartj.w,qpubqko.
kor..qnyqko.eqjnukrtc.bqknq.pkqpqe.phqnuqnu.qnyqko.qw.pkwqynrvprbs

Ko.r.qv.r.qphr.pbzqpqjnfah.qnyqwjnr.qnyqapww.ul.rwqpinprb,qwne.qnyqvone
opbq.ma.ub.bqko.trqhpwkqenu.zqtuqw.jfrtulqpqapwwpl.,qifkqko.qjpakptu
hpzqnyyqko.qIhpj vpk.rqfukthqytc.qtuqko.qpyk.runnu,qatj tulqfa
apww.ul.rwqfukthqko.qw.pk.bqb.j wqv.r.q.c.uqbpul.rnfwhzqjrnvb.bsqO.
vnfhbqarnipihzqopc.qr.eptu.bqhnul.rqopbqtkqunkqi..uqynrqko.qwnfubqny
lfuwqkopkqi.lpuqpinfkqkopkqonfrqtuqko.qwnfkosqPwqtyqtuqpuwv.r,qko.
trnujhpbqw.pvprbqytr.bqpqwephhqlfuqpubqontwk.bqpqwkrtulqnyqyhplwsqPqg.k
nyqwen .qwarpulqnfkqnyqo.rqyfuu.hws

Wne.qnyqko.qapww.ul.rwqv.r.qnyqnatutnuqkopkqkotwqytrtulqjpe.qyrne
Won.ifrzu.ww,qfukthqtkqvpwqunktj.bqkopkqtkqvpwqlrnvtulqhnfb.rsqPkqko.
wpe.qkte.,qyprqpvpzqtuqko.qwnfko.pwkqko.qepwkwqpubqfaa.rvnr wqnyqkor..
trnujhpbwqrnw.qnu.qpyk.rqko.qnko.rqnfkqnyqko.qw.p,qi.u.pkoqjhnfbwqny
ihpj qwen .sqIfkqezqirnko.r’wqpkk.uktnuqwa..bthzqr.c.rk.bqknqko.
btwkpukqytrtulqtuqko.qwnfkosqO.qypujt.bqo.qwpvqpqjnhfeuqnyqwen .qrtwtul
nfkqnyqko.qbtwkpukqlr.zqopd.s

Ko.qhtkkh.qwk.pe.rqvpwqphr.pbzqyhpaatulqo.rqvpzq.pwkvprbqnyqko.qitl
jr.wj.ukqnyqwotaatul,qpubqko.qhnvq.ww.mqjnpwkqvpwqlrnvtulqihf.qpub
opdz,qvo.uqpqEprktpuqpaa.pr.b,qwephhqpubqyptukqtuqko.qr.enk.qbtwkpuj.,
pbcpujtulqphnulqko.qefbbzqjnpwkqyrneqko.qbtr.jktnuqnyqYnfhu.wwsqPkqkopk
ko.qjpakptuqnuqko.qirtbl.qwvnr.qpkqko.qknaqnyqotwqcntj.qvtkoqy.prqpub
pul.rqpkqotwqnvuqb.hpz,qpubqko.qapbbh.wqw..e.bqtuy.jk.bqvtkoqotw
k.rrnrsq.c.rzqwnfhqpinprbqwknnbqpkqko.qifhvpr wqnrqnuqko.qw.pkwqnyqko.
wk.pe.rqpubqwkpr.bqpkqkopkqbtwkpukqwopa.,qotlo.rqkopuqko.qkr..wqnr
jofrjoqknv.rwqtuhpub,qpubqpbcpujtulqvtkoqpqh.twfr.hzqaprnbzqnyqpqofepu
wkrtb.s

Tkqvpwqko.qytrwkqEprktpuqezqirnko.rqopbqw..u,qpubqo.qwknnb,qenr.qpepd.b
kopuqk.rrtyt.b,qvpkjotulqkotwqKtkpuqpbcpujtulqb.hti.rpk.hzqknvprbwqko.
wotaatul,qvpbtulqyprko.rqpubqyprko.rqtuknqko.qvpk.rqpwqko.qjnpwkqy.hh
pvpzsqKo.u,qyprqpvpzqi.znubqko.qJrnfjo,qjpe.qpunko.r,qwkrtbtulqnc.r
wne.qwkfuk.bqkr..w,qpubqko.uqz.kqpunko.r,qwkthhqyprko.rqnyy,qvpbtul
b..ahzqkornfloqpqwotuzqefbyhpkqkopkqw..e.bqknqopulqophyvpzqfaqi.kv..u
w.pqpubqw zsqKo.zqv.r.qphhqwkph tulqw.pvprb,qpwqtyqknqtuk.rj.akqko.
.wjpa.qnyqko.qefhktkfbtunfwqc.ww.hwqkopkqv.r.qjrnvb.bqi.kv..uqYnfhu.ww
pubqko.qUpd.sqTuqwatk.qnyqko.qkorniitulq.m.rktnuwqnyqko.q.ultu.wqnyqko.
htkkh.qapbbh.-inpk,qpubqko.qanfrtulqynpeqkopkqo.rqvo..hwqyhfulqi.otub
o.r,qwo.qr.j.b.bqvtkoqk.rrtyztulqwhnvu.wwqyrneqkotwqnetunfwqpbcpuj.s

Lhpujtulqunrkov.wkvprb,qezqirnko.rqwpvqko.qhprl.qjr.wj.ukqnyqwotaatul
phr.pbzqvrtkotulqvtkoqko.qpaarnpjotulqk.rrnr;qnu.qwotaqapwwtulqi.otub
punko.r,qpunko.rqjnetulqrnfubqyrneqirnpbwtb.qknq.ubqnu,qwk.pewotaw
votwkhtulqpubqltctulqnyyqcnhfe.wqnyqwk.pe,qwpthwqi.tulqh.kqnfk,
hpfujo.wqrfwotulqotko.rqpubqkotko.rsqO.qvpwqwnqypwjtupk.bqizqkotwqpub
izqko.qjr..atulqbpul.rqpvpzqknqko.qh.ykqkopkqo.qopbqunq.z.wqynr
puzkotulqw.pvprbsqPubqko.uqpqwvtykqenc.e.ukqnyqko.qwk.peinpkq(wo.qopb
wfbb.uhzqjne.qrnfubqknqpcntbqi.tulqrfuqbnvu)qyhfulqoteqo.pbhnulqyrne
ko.qw.pkqfanuqvotjoqo.qvpwqwkpubtulsqKo.r.qvpwqpqwonfktulqphhqpinfk
ote,qpqkrpeahtulqnyqy..k,qpubqpqjo..rqkopkqw..e.bqknqi.qpuwv.r.b
yptukhzsqKo.qwk.peinpkqhfrjo.bqpubqrnhh.bqoteqnc.rqfanuqotwqopubws

O.qwarpulqknqotwqy..kqpubqwpvqknqwkprinprb,qpubqunkqpqofubr.bqzprbw
yrneqko.trqo..htul,qatkjotulqinpk,qpqcpwkqtrnuqifh qht .qko.qihpb.qnyqp
ahnfloqk.prtulqkornfloqko.qvpk.r,qknwwtulqtkqnuq.tko.rqwtb.qtuqofl.
vpc.wqnyqynpeqkopkqh.pa.bqknvprbwqko.qwk.pe.r,qyhtultulqo.rqapbbh.w
o.hah.wwhzqtuqko.qptr,qpubqko.uqwfj tulqo.rqb.j qbnvuqphenwkqknqko.
vpk.rhtu.s

Pqbnfjo.qnyqwarpzqihtub.bqezqirnko.rqynrqpqene.uksqVo.uqotwq.z.wqv.r.
jh.prqplptuqo.qwpvqko.qenuwk.rqopbqapww.bqpubqvpwqrfwotulqhpubvprbsqItl
trnuqfaa.rvnr wqrnw.qnfkqnyqkotwqo.pbhnulqwkrfjkfr.,qpubqyrneqkopkqkvtu
yfuu.hwqarng.jk.bqpubqwapkqpqwen tulqihpwkqwonkqvtkoqytr.sqTkqvpwqko.
knra.bnqrpe,q_Kofub.rqJothb_,qwk.petulqo.pbhnul,qjnetulqknqko.qr.wjf.
nyqko.qkor.pk.u.bqwotaatuls

 ..atulqotwqynnktulqnuqko.qo.pctulqb.j qizqjhfkjotulqko.qifhvpr w,qez
irnko.rqhnn .bqapwkqkotwqjoprltulqh.ctpkopuqpkqko.qEprktpuwqplptu,qpub
o.qwpvqko.qkor..qnyqko.equnvqjhnw.qknl.ko.r,qpubqwkpubtulqwnqyprqnfkqkn
w.pqkopkqko.trqkrtanbqwfaanrkwqv.r.qphenwkq.uktr.hzqwfie.rl.bsqKofw
wfu .u,qpubqw..uqtuqr.enk.qa.rwa.jktc.,qko.zqpaa.pr.bqyprqh.ww
ynretbpih.qkopuqko.qofl.qtrnuqifh qtuqvonw.qvp .qko.qwk.pe.rqvpw
atkjotulqwnqo.hah.wwhzsqTkqvnfhbqw..eqko.zqv.r.qr.lprbtulqkotwqu.v
pukplnutwkqvtkoqpwknutwoe.uksqKnqko.trqtuk.hhtl.uj.,qtkqepzqi.,qko.
ltpukqvpwq.c.uqwfjoqpunko.rqpwqko.ew.hc.wsqKo.q_Kofub.rqJothb_qytr.bqun
lfu,qifkqwteahzqbrnc.qyfhhqwa..bqknvprbwqko.esqTkqvpwqarnipihzqo.rqunk
ytrtulqkopkq.upih.bqo.rqknql.kqwnqu.prqko.q.u.ezqpwqwo.qbtbsqKo.zqbtb
unkq unvqvopkqknqep .qnyqo.rsqNu.qwo.hh,qpubqko.zqvnfhbqopc.qw.ukqo.r
knqko.qinkkneqynrkovtkoqvtkoqko.qO.pk-Rpzs

Wo.qvpwqwk.petulqpkqwfjoqpqapj.qkopkqtuqpqetufk.qwo.qw..e.bqophyvpz
i.kv..uqko.qwk.peinpkqpubqko.qEprktpuw—pqbtetutwotulqihpj qifh qplptuwk
ko.qr.j.btulqonrtdnukphq.mapuw.qnyqko.q.ww.mqjnpwks

Wfbb.uhzqko.qynr.enwkqEprktpuqhnv.r.bqotwqkfi.qpubqbtwjoprl.bqp
jputwk.rqnyqko.qihpj qlpwqpkqko.qtrnujhpbsqTkqotkqo.rqhprinprbqwtb.qpub
lhpuj.bqnyyqtuqpuqtu zqg.kqkopkqrnhh.bqpvpzqknqw.pvprb,qpuqfuynhbtul
knrr.ukqnyqIhpj qWen .,qyrneqvotjoqko.qtrnujhpbqbrnc.qjh.prsqKnqko.
vpkjo.rwqyrneqko.qwk.pe.r,qhnvqtuqko.qvpk.rqpubqvtkoqko.qwfuqtuqko.tr
.z.w,qtkqw..e.bqpwqkonfloqwo.qv.r.qphr.pbzqpenulqko.qEprktpuws

Ko.zqwpvqko.qlpfukqytlfr.wqw.aprpktulqpubqrtwtulqnfkqnyqko.qvpk.rqpw
ko.zqr.kr.pk.bqwonr.vprb,qpubqnu.qnyqko.eqrptw.bqko.qjpe.rp-ht .
l.u.rpknrqnyqko.qO.pk-RpzsqO.qo.hbqtkqantuktulqnihtxf.hzqbnvuvprb,qpub
pqipu qnyqwk.peqwarpulqyrneqko.qvpk.rqpkqtkwqknfjosqTkqefwkqopc.qbrtc.u
kornfloqko.qtrnuqnyqko.qwota’wqwtb.qht .qpqvotk.-onkqtrnuqrnbqkornflo
apa.rs

Pqyhtj .rqnyqyhpe.qv.ukqfaqkornfloqko.qrtwtulqwk.pe,qpubqko.uqko.
Eprktpuqr..h.bqpubqwkpll.r.bsqTuqpunko.rqene.ukqo.qvpwqjfkqbnvu,qpubqp
lr.pkqinbzqnyqvpk.rqpubqwk.peqwonkqotloqtuqko.qptrsqKo.qlfuwqnyqko.
_Kofub.rqJothb_qwnfub.bqkornfloqko.qr.. ,qlntulqnyyqnu.qpyk.rqko.
nko.r,qpubqnu.qwonkqwahpwo.bqko.qvpk.rqotloqjhnw.qizqko.qwk.pe.r,
rtjnjo.k.bqknvprbwqko.qnko.rqyhztulqwotawqknqko.qunrko,qpubqwepwo.bqp
wepj qknqepkjovnnbs

Ifkqunqnu.qo..b.bqkopkqc.rzqefjosqPkqko.qwtlokqnyqko.qEprktpu’w
jnhhpaw.qko.qjpakptuqnuqko.qirtbl.qz.hh.bqtuprktjfhpk.hz,qpubqphhqko.
jrnvbtulqapww.ul.rwqnuqko.qwk.pe.r’wqwk.ruqwonfk.bqknl.ko.rsqPubqko.u
ko.zqz.hh.bqplptusqYnr,qwfrltulqnfkqi.znubqko.qvotk.qkfefhk,qbrnc.
wne.kotulqhnulqpubqihpj ,qko.qyhpe.wqwkr.petulqyrneqtkwqetbbh.qaprkw,
tkwqc.ukthpknrwqpubqyfuu.hwqwanfktulqytr.s

Wo.qvpwqphtc.qwkthh;qko.qwk..rtulql.pr,qtkqw..ew,qvpwqtukpjkqpubqo.r
.ultu.wqvnr tulsqWo.qo.pb.bqwkrptlokqynrqpqw.jnubqEprktpu,qpubqvpw
vtkotuqpqofubr.bqzprbwqnyqoteqvo.uqko.qO.pk-Rpzqjpe.qknqi.prsqKo.uqvtko
pqctnh.ukqkofb,qpqihtubtulqyhpwo,qo.rqb.j w,qo.rqyfuu.hw,qh.pa.b
favprbsqKo.qEprktpuqwkpll.r.bqvtkoqko.qctnh.uj.qnyqo.rq.mahnwtnu,qpub
tuqpunko.rqene.ukqko.qyhpetulqvr.j pl.,qwkthhqbrtctulqynrvprbqvtkoqko.
tea.kfwqnyqtkwqapj.,qopbqwkrfj qoteqpubqjrfeah.bqoteqfaqht .qpqkotulqny
jprbinprbsqEzqirnko.rqwonfk.bqtucnhfukprthzsqPqinthtulqkfefhkqnyqwk.pe
otbq.c.rzkotulqplptus

“Kvn!”qz.hh.bqko.qjpakptus

.c.rznu.qvpwqwonfktulsqKo.qvonh.qwk.pe.rqyrneq.ubqknq.ubqrpulqvtko
yrpuktjqjo..rtulqkopkqvpwqkp .uqfaqytrwkqizqnu.qpubqko.uqizqphhqtuqko.
jrnvbtulqefhktkfb.qnyqwotawqpubqinpkwqkopkqvpwqbrtctulqnfkqknqw.ps

Ko.qwk.peqofulqfanuqko.qvpk.rqynrqepuzqetufk.w,qotbtulqko.qkotrb
Eprktpuqpubqko.qjnpwkqphknl.ko.rsqPubqphhqkotwqkte.qko.qinpkqvpw
apbbhtulqwk.pbthzqnfkqknqw.pqpubqpvpzqyrneqko.qytlok;qpubqvo.uqpkqhpwk
ko.qjnuyfwtnuqjh.pr.b,qko.qbrtyktulqipu qnyqihpj qcpanfrqtuk.rc.u.b,
pubqunkotulqnyqko.q_Kofub.rqJothb_qjnfhbqi.qepb.qnfk,qunrqjnfhbqko.
kotrbqEprktpuqi.qw..usqIfkqko.qtrnujhpbwqknqw.pvprbqv.r.qunvqxftk.
jhnw.qpubqwkpubtulqtuqknvprbwqwonr.qapwkqko.qwk.peinpks

Ko.qhtkkh.qc.ww.hqjnuktuf.bqknqi.pkqtkwqvpzqw.pvprb,qpubqko.qtrnujhpbw
r.j.b.bqwhnvhzqknvprbwqko.qjnpwk,qvotjoqvpwqotbb.uqwkthhqizqpqeprih.b
ipu qnyqcpanfr,qaprkqwk.pe,qaprkqihpj qlpw,q.bbztulqpubqjneitutulqtu
ko.qwkrpul.wkqvpzsqKo.qyh..kqnyqr.yfl..wqvpwqwjpkk.rtulqknqko.
unrko.pwk;qw.c.rphqwepj wqv.r.qwpthtulqi.kv..uqko.qtrnujhpbwqpubqko.
wk.peinpksqPyk.rqpqkte.,qpubqi.ynr.qko.zqr.pjo.bqko.qwtu tulqjhnfb
ipu ,qko.qvprwotawqkfru.bqunrkovprb,qpubqko.uqpirfakhzqv.ukqpinfkqpub
apww.bqtuknqko.qkotj .utulqopd.qnyq.c.utulqwnfkovprbsqKo.qjnpwkqlr.v
yptuk,qpubqpkqhpwkqtubtwktulftwopih.qpetbqko.qhnvqipu wqnyqjhnfbwqkopk
v.r.qlpko.rtulqpinfkqko.qwtu tulqwfus

Ko.uqwfbb.uhzqnfkqnyqko.qlnhb.uqopd.qnyqko.qwfuw.kqjpe.qko.qctirpktnu
nyqlfuw,qpubqpqynreqnyqihpj qwopbnvwqenctulsq.c.rznu.qwkrfllh.bqknqko.
rpthqnyqko.qwk.pe.rqpubqa..r.bqtuknqko.qihtubtulqyfrupj.qnyqko.qv.wk,
ifkqunkotulqvpwqknqi.qbtwktulftwo.bqjh.prhzsqPqepwwqnyqwen .qrnw.
whpuktulqpubqiprr.bqko.qypj.qnyqko.qwfusqKo.qwk.peinpkqkornii.bqnuqtkw
vpzqkornfloqpuqtuk.retupih.qwfwa.uw.s

Ko.qwfuqwpu qtuknqlr.zqjhnfbw,qko.qw zqyhfwo.bqpubqbpr .u.b,qko.
.c.utulqwkprqkr.eih.bqtuknqwtloksqTkqvpwqb..aqkvthtlokqvo.uqko.qjpakptu
jrt.bqnfkqpubqantuk.bsqEzqirnko.rqwkrptu.bqotwq.z.wsqWne.kotulqrfwo.b
faqtuknqko.qw zqnfkqnyqko.qlr.zu.ww—rfwo.bqwhpuktulhzqfavprbqpubqc.rz
wvtykhzqtuknqko.qhfetunfwqjh.pru.wwqpinc.qko.qjhnfbwqtuqko.qv.wk.ru
w z;qwne.kotulqyhpkqpubqirnpb,qpubqc.rzqhprl.,qkopkqwv.akqrnfubqtuqp
cpwkqjfrc.,qlr.vqwephh.r,qwpu qwhnvhz,qpubqcputwo.bqplptuqtuknqko.qlr.z
ezwk.rzqnyqko.qutloksqPubqpwqtkqyh.vqtkqrptu.bqbnvuqbpr u.wwqfanuqko.
hpubs


INN qKVN

KO.q.PRKOqFUB.RqKO.qEPRKTPUWs




Ts

FUB.RqYNNKs

Tuqko.qytrwkqinn qTqopc.qvpub.r.bqwnqefjoqyrneqezqnvuqpbc.ukfr.wqkn
k.hhqnyqko.q.ma.rt.uj.wqnyqezqirnko.rqkopkqphhqkornfloqko.qhpwkqkvn
jopak.rwqTqpubqko.qjfrpk.qopc.qi..uqhfr tulqtuqko.q.eakzqonfw.qpk
Ophhtynrbqvotko.rqv.qyh.bqknq.wjpa.qko.qIhpj qWen .sqKo.r.qTqvthh
r.wfe.sqV.qwknaa.bqko.r.qphhqWfubpzqutlokqpubqphhqko.qu.mkqbpz—ko.qbpz
nyqko.qaputj—tuqpqhtkkh.qtwhpubqnyqbpzhtlok,qjfkqnyyqizqko.qIhpj qWen .
yrneqko.qr.wkqnyqko.qvnrhbsqV.qjnfhbqbnqunkotulqifkqvptkqtuqpjotul
tupjktctkzqbfrtulqkonw.qkvnqv.przqbpzws

Ezqetubqvpwqnjjfat.bqizqpumt.kzqynrqezqvty.sqTqytlfr.bqo.rqpk
H.pko.ro.pb,qk.rrtyt.b,qtuqbpul.r,qenfrutulqe.qphr.pbzqpwqpqb.pbqepusqT
apj.bqko.qrnnewqpubqjrt.bqphnfbqvo.uqTqkonflokqnyqonvqTqvpwqjfkqnyy
yrneqo.r,qnyqphhqkopkqetlokqopaa.uqknqo.rqtuqezqpiw.uj.sqEzqjnfwtuqT
 u.vqvpwqirpc.q.unfloqynrqpuzq.e.rl.ujz,qifkqo.qvpwqunkqko.qwnrkqnyqepu
knqr.phtw.qbpul.rqxftj hz,qknqrtw.qarneakhzsqVopkqvpwqu..b.bqunvqvpw
unkqirpc.rz,qifkqjtrjfewa.jktnusqEzqnuhzqjnuwnhpktnuqvpwqknqi.ht.c.
kopkqko.qEprktpuwqv.r.qenctulqHnubnuvprbqpubqpvpzqyrneqo.rsqWfjoqcplf.
pumt.kt.wq ..aqko.qetubqw.uwtktc.qpubqaptuyfhsqTqlr.vqc.rzqv.przqpub
trrtkpih.qvtkoqko.qjfrpk.’wqa.ra.kfphq.gpjfhpktnuw;qTqktr.bqnyqko.
wtlokqnyqotwqw.hytwoqb.waptrsqPyk.rqwne.qtu.yy.jkfphqr.enuwkrpuj.qT
 .akqpvpzqyrneqote,qwkpztulqtuqpqrnne—.ctb.ukhzqpqjothbr.u’w
wjonnhrnne—jnukptutulqlhni.w,qynrew,qpubqjnazinn wsqVo.uqo.qynhhnv.bqe.
kotko.r,qTqv.ukqknqpqinmqrnneqpkqko.qknaqnyqko.qonfw.qpub,qtuqnrb.rqkn
i.qphnu.qvtkoqezqpjotulqetw.rt.w,qhnj .bqezw.hyqtus

V.qv.r.qona.h.wwhzqo.ee.bqtuqizqko.qIhpj qWen .qphhqkopkqbpzqpubqko.
enrutulqnyqko.qu.mksqKo.r.qv.r.qwtluwqnyqa.nah.qtuqko.qu.mkqonfw.qnu
Wfubpzq.c.utul—pqypj.qpkqpqvtubnvqpubqenctulqhtlokw,qpubqhpk.rqko.
whpeetulqnyqpqbnnrsqIfkqTqbnqunkq unvqvonqko.w.qa.nah.qv.r.,qunrqvopk
i.jpe.qnyqko.esqV.qwpvqunkotulqnyqko.equ.mkqbpzsqKo.qIhpj qWen .
brtyk.bqwhnvhzqrtc.rvprbqphhqkornfloqEnubpzqenrutul,qjr..atulqu.pr.r
pubqu.pr.rqknqfw,qbrtctulqpkqhpwkqphnulqko.qrnpbvpzqnfkwtb.qko.qonfw.
kopkqotbqfws

PqEprktpuqjpe.qpjrnwwqko.qyt.hbwqpinfkqetbbpz,qhpztulqko.qwkfyyqvtkoqp
g.kqnyqwfa.ro.pk.bqwk.peqkopkqotww.bqplptuwkqko.qvphhw,qwepwo.bqphhqko.
vtubnvwqtkqknfjo.b,qpubqwjphb.bqko.qjfrpk.’wqopubqpwqo.qyh.bqnfkqnyqko.
yrnukqrnnesqVo.uqpkqhpwkqv.qjr.akqpjrnwwqko.qwnbb.uqrnnewqpubqhnn .b
nfkqplptu,qko.qjnfukrzqunrkovprbqvpwqpwqkonfloqpqihpj qwunvwknreqopb
apww.bqnc.rqtksqHnn tulqknvprbwqko.qrtc.r,qv.qv.r.qpwknutwo.bqknqw..qpu
fupjjnfukpih.qr.bu.wwqetulhtulqvtkoqko.qihpj qnyqko.qwjnrjo.bqe.pbnvws

Ynrqpqkte.qv.qbtbqunkqw..qonvqkotwqjopul.qpyy.jk.bqnfrqanwtktnu,qwpc.
kopkqv.qv.r.qr.ht.c.bqnyqnfrqy.prqnyqko.qIhpj qWen .sqIfkqhpk.rqT
a.rj.tc.bqkopkqv.qv.r.qunqhnul.rqo.ee.bqtu,qkopkqunvqv.qetlokql.kqpvpzs
WnqwnnuqpwqTqr.phtw.bqkopkqko.qvpzqnyq.wjpa.qvpwqna.u,qezqbr.peqny
pjktnuqr.kfru.bsqIfkqko.qjfrpk.qvpwqh.koprltj,qfur.pwnupih.s

“V.qpr.qwpy.qo.r.,”qo.qr.a.pk.b;q“wpy.qo.r.s”

Tqr.wnhc.bqknqh.pc.qote—vnfhbqkopkqTqopb!qVtw.rqunvqynrqko.
prkthh.rzepu’wqk.pjotul,qTqwnflokqnfkqynnbqpubqbrtu sqTqopbqynfubqnth
pubqrplwqynrqezqifruw,qpubqTqphwnqknn qpqopkqpubqpqyhpuu.hqwotrkqkopkqT
ynfubqtuqnu.qnyqko.qi.brnnewsqVo.uqtkqvpwqjh.prqknqoteqkopkqTqe.pukqkn
lnqphnu.—opbqr.jnujth.bqezw.hyqknqlntulqphnu.—o.qwfbb.uhzqrnfw.b
otew.hyqknqjne.sqPubqphhqi.tulqxft.kqkornflonfkqko.qpyk.runnu,qv.
wkprk.bqpinfkqytc.qn’jhnj ,qpwqTqwonfhbqgfbl.,qphnulqko.qihpj .u.bqrnpb
knqWfuifrzs

TuqWfuifrz,qpubqpkqtuk.rcphwqphnulqko.qrnpb,qv.r.qb.pbqinbt.wqhztulqtu
jnuknrk.bqpkktkfb.w,qonrw.wqpwqv.hhqpwqe.u,qnc.rkfru.bqjprkwqpub
hfllpl.,qphhqjnc.r.bqkotj hzqvtkoqihpj qbfwksqKopkqaphhqnyqjtub.rz
anvb.rqepb.qe.qkotu qnyqvopkqTqopbqr.pbqnyqko.qb.wkrfjktnuqnyqAnea.tts
V.qlnkqknqOpeaknuqJnfrkqvtkonfkqetwpbc.ukfr.,qnfrqetubwqyfhhqnyqwkrpul.
pubqfuypethtprqpaa.prpuj.w,qpubqpkqOpeaknuqJnfrkqnfrq.z.wqv.r.qr.ht.c.b
knqytubqpqapkjoqnyqlr..uqkopkqopbq.wjpa.bqko.qwfyynjpktulqbrtyksqV.
v.ukqkornfloqIfwo.zqApr ,qvtkoqtkwqb..rqlntulqknqpubqyrnqfub.rqko.
jo.wkufkw,qpubqwne.qe.uqpubqvne.uqofrrztulqtuqko.qbtwkpuj.qknvprbw
Opeaknu,qpubqwnqv.qjpe.qknqKvtj .uopesqKo.w.qv.r.qko.qytrwkqa.nah.qv.
wpvs

Pvpzqpjrnwwqko.qrnpbqko.qvnnbwqi.znubqOpeqpubqA.k.rwopeqv.r.qwkthh
pytr.sqKvtj .uopeqvpwqfutugfr.bqizq.tko.rqO.pk-RpzqnrqIhpj qWen .,qpub
ko.r.qv.r.qenr.qa.nah.qpinfkqo.r.,qkonfloqunu.qjnfhbqltc.qfwqu.vwsqYnr
ko.qenwkqaprkqko.zqv.r.qht .qnfrw.hc.w,qkp tulqpbcpukpl.qnyqpqhfhhqkn
wotykqko.trqxfprk.rwsqTqopc.qpuqtear.wwtnuqkopkqepuzqnyqko.qonfw.wqo.r.
v.r.qwkthhqnjjfat.bqizqwjpr.bqtuopitkpukw,qknnqyrtlok.u.bq.c.uqynr
yhtloksqO.r.qknnqko.q.ctb.uj.qnyqpqopwkzqrnfkqvpwqpifubpukqphnulqko.
rnpbsqTqr.e.ei.rqenwkqctctbhzqkor..qwepwo.bqitjzjh.wqtuqpqo.pa,qanfub.b
tuknqko.qrnpbqizqko.qvo..hwqnyqwfiw.xf.ukqjprkwsqV.qjrnww.bqRtjoenub
Irtbl.qpinfkqophyqapwkq.tloksqV.qofrrt.bqpjrnwwqko.q.manw.bqirtbl.,qny
jnfrw.,qifkqTqunktj.bqyhnpktulqbnvuqko.qwkr.peqpqufei.rqnyqr.bqepww.w,
wne.qepuzqy..kqpjrnwwsqTqbtbqunkq unvqvopkqko.w.qv.r.—ko.r.qvpwqunqkte.
ynrqwjrfktuz—pubqTqafkqpqenr.qonrrtih.qtuk.rar.kpktnuqnuqko.eqkopuqko.z
b.w.rc.bsqO.r.qplptuqnuqko.qWfrr.zqwtb.qv.r.qihpj qbfwkqkopkqopbqnuj.
i..uqwen .,qpubqb.pbqinbt.w—pqo.paqu.prqko.qpaarnpjoqknqko.qwkpktnu;
ifkqv.qopbqunqlhteaw.qnyqko.qEprktpuwqfukthqv.qv.r.qwne.qvpzqknvprbw
Ipru.ws

V.qwpvqtuqko.qihpj .u.bqbtwkpuj.qpqlrnfaqnyqkor..qa.nah.qrfuutulqbnvuqp
wtb.qwkr..kqknvprbwqko.qrtc.r,qifkqnko.rvtw.qtkqw..e.bqb.w.rk.bsqFaqko.
othhqRtjoenubqknvuqvpwqifrutulqirtw hz;qnfkwtb.qko.qknvuqnyqRtjoenub
ko.r.qvpwqunqkrpj.qnyqko.qIhpj qWen .s

Ko.uqwfbb.uhz,qpwqv.qpaarnpjo.bq .v,qjpe.qpqufei.rqnyqa.nah.qrfuutul,
pubqko.qfaa.rvnr wqnyqpqEprktpuqytloktul-epjotu.qhnne.bqtuqwtlokqnc.r
ko.qonfw.knaw,qunkqpqofubr.bqzprbwqpvpzqyrneqfwsqV.qwknnbqplopwkqpkqnfr
bpul.r,qpubqopbqko.qEprktpuqhnn .bqbnvuqv.qefwkqtee.btpk.hzqopc.
a.rtwo.bsqV.qv.r.qwnqk.rrtyt.bqkopkqv.qbpr.bqunkqlnqnu,qifkqkfru.b
pwtb.qpubqotbqtuqpqwo.bqtuqpqlprb.usqKo.r.qko.qjfrpk.qjrnfjo.b,qv..atul
wth.ukhz,qpubqr.yfwtulqknqwktrqplptus

Ifkqezqytm.bqtb.pqnyqr.pjotulqH.pko.ro.pbqvnfhbqunkqh.kqe.qr.wk,qpubqtu
ko.qkvthtlokqTqc.ukfr.bqnfkqplptusqTqv.ukqkornfloqpqworfii.rz,qpub
phnulqpqapwwpl.qi.wtb.qpqitlqonfw.qwkpubtulqtuqtkwqnvuqlrnfubw,qpubqwn
.e.rl.bqfanuqko.qrnpbqknvprbwq .vsqKo.qjfrpk.qTqh.ykqtuqko.qwo.b,qifk
o.qjpe.qofrrztulqpyk.rqe.s

Kopkqw.jnubqwkprkqvpwqko.qenwkqynnhoprbzqkotulqTq.c.rqbtbsqYnrqtkqvpw
eputy.wkqko.qEprktpuwqv.r.qpinfkqfwsqUnqwnnu.rqopbqko.qjfrpk.qnc.rkp .u
e.qkopuqv.qwpvq.tko.rqko.qytloktul-epjotu.qv.qopbqw..uqi.ynr.qnr
punko.r,qyprqpvpzqpjrnwwqko.qe.pbnvwqtuqko.qbtr.jktnuqnyq .vqHnbl.s
Ynfrqnrqytc.qhtkkh.qihpj qytlfr.wqofrrt.bqi.ynr.qtkqpjrnwwqko.
lr..u-lr.zqnyqko.qyt.hb,qpubqtuqpqene.ukqtkqvpwq.ctb.ukqkotwqEprktpu
afrwf.bqko.esqTuqkor..qwkrtb.wqo.qvpwqpenulqko.e,qpubqko.zqrpu
rpbtpktulqyrneqotwqy..kqtuqphhqbtr.jktnuwsqO.qfw.bqunqO.pk-Rpzqkn
b.wkrnzqko.e,qifkqatj .bqko.eqfaqnu.qizqnu.sqPaapr.ukhzqo.qknww.bqko.e
tuknqko.qlr.pkqe.kphhtjqjprrt.rqvotjoqarng.jk.bqi.otubqote,qefjoqpwqp
vnr epu’wqipw .kqopulwqnc.rqotwqwonfhb.rs

Tkqvpwqko.qytrwkqkte.qTqr.phtw.bqkopkqko.qEprktpuwqetlokqopc.qpuzqnko.r
afranw.qkopuqb.wkrfjktnuqvtkoqb.y.pk.bqofeputkzsqV.qwknnbqynrqpqene.uk
a.krtyt.b,qko.uqkfru.bqpubqyh.bqkornfloqpqlpk.qi.otubqfwqtuknqpqvphh.b
lprb.u,qy.hhqtukn,qrpko.rqkopuqynfub,qpqynrkfupk.qbtkjo,qpubqhpzqko.r.,
wjprj.qbprtulqknqvotwa.rqknq.pjoqnko.rqfukthqko.qwkprwqv.r.qnfks

Tqwfaanw.qtkqvpwqu.prhzq.h.c.uqn’jhnj qi.ynr.qv.qlpko.r.bqjnfrpl.qkn
wkprkqplptu,qunqhnul.rqc.ukfrtulqtuknqko.qrnpb,qifkqwu.p tulqphnul
o.bl.rnvwqpubqkornfloqahpukpktnuw,qpubqvpkjotulq ..uhzqkornfloqko.
bpr u.ww,qo.qnuqko.qrtlokqpubqTqnuqko.qh.yk,qynrqko.qEprktpuw,qvon
w..e.bqknqi.qphhqpinfkqfwsqTuqnu.qahpj.qv.qihfub.r.bqfanuqpqwjnrjo.b
pubqihpj .u.bqpr.p,qunvqjnnhtulqpubqpwo.u,qpubqpqufei.rqnyqwjpkk.r.b
b.pbqinbt.wqnyqe.u,qifru.bqonrrtihzqpinfkqko.qo.pbwqpubqkrfu wqifkqvtko
ko.trqh.lwqpubqinnkwqenwkhzqtukpjk;qpubqnyqb.pbqonrw.w,qytykzqy..k,
a.ropaw,qi.otubqpqhtu.qnyqynfrqrtaa.bqlfuwqpubqwepwo.bqlfuqjprrtpl.ws

Wo..u,qtkqw..e.b,qopbq.wjpa.bqb.wkrfjktnu,qifkqko.qahpj.qvpwqwth.ukqpub
b.w.rk.bsqO.r.qv.qopaa.u.bqnuqunqb.pb,qkonfloqko.qutlokqvpwqknnqbpr 
ynrqfwqknqw..qtuknqko.qwtb.qrnpbwqnyqko.qahpj.sqTuqWo..uqezqjneaputnu
wfbb.uhzqjneahptu.bqnyqyptuku.wwqpubqkotrwk,qpubqv.qb.jtb.bqknqkrzqnu.
nyqko.qonfw.ws

Ko.qytrwkqonfw.qv.q.uk.r.b,qpyk.rqpqhtkkh.qbtyytjfhkzqvtkoqko.qvtubnv,
vpwqpqwephhqw.et-b.kpjo.bqcthhp,qpubqTqynfubqunkotulq.pkpih.qh.ykqtu
ko.qahpj.qifkqwne.qenfhbzqjo..w.sqKo.r.qvpw,qonv.c.r,qvpk.rqknqbrtu ;
pubqTqknn qpqopkjo.k,qvotjoqarnetw.bqknqi.qfw.yfhqtuqnfrqu.mk
onfw.-ir.p tuls

V.qko.uqjrnww.bqknqpqahpj.qvo.r.qko.qrnpbqkfruwqknvprbwqEnrkhp .sqO.r.
ko.r.qwknnbqpqvotk.qonfw.qvtkotuqpqvphh.bqlprb.u,qpubqtuqko.qapukrzqny
kotwqbnetjth.qv.qynfubqpqwknr.qnyqynnb—kvnqhnpc.wqnyqir.pbqtuqpqapu,qpu
fujnn .bqwk.p ,qpubqko.qophyqnyqpqopesqTqltc.qkotwqjpkphnlf.qwn
ar.jtw.hzqi.jpfw.,qpwqtkqopaa.u.b,qv.qv.r.qb.wktu.bqknqwfiwtwkqfanu
kotwqwknr.qynrqko.qu.mkqynrkutloksqInkkh.bqi..rqwknnbqfub.rqpqwo.hy,
pubqko.r.qv.r.qkvnqiplwqnyqoprtjnkqi.puwqpubqwne.qhteaqh.kkfj.wsqKotw
apukrzqna.u.bqtuknqpq tubqnyqvpwo-faq tkjo.u,qpubqtuqkotwqvpwqytr.vnnb;
ko.r.qvpwqphwnqpqjfainprb,qtuqvotjoqv.qynfubqu.prhzqpqbnd.uqny
ifrlfubz,qktuu.bqwnfawqpubqwphenu,qpubqkvnqktuwqnyqitwjftkws

V.qwpkqtuqko.qpbgpj.ukq tkjo.uqtuqko.qbpr —ynrqv.qbpr.bqunkqwkrt .qp
htlok—pubqpk.qir.pbqpubqope,qpubqbrpu qi..rqnfkqnyqko.qwpe.qinkkh.sqKo.
jfrpk.,qvonqvpwqwkthhqktenrnfwqpubqr.wkh.ww,qvpwqunv,qnbbhzq.unflo,qynr
afwotulqnu,qpubqTqvpwqfrltulqoteqknq ..aqfaqotwqwkr.ulkoqizq.pktulqvo.u
ko.qkotulqopaa.u.bqkopkqvpwqknqteartwnuqfws

“Tkqjpu’kqi.qetbutlokqz.k,”qTqwptb,qpubqko.uqjpe.qpqihtubtulqlhpr.qny
ctctbqlr..uqhtloksq.c.rzkotulqtuqko.q tkjo.uqh.pa.bqnfk,qjh.prhz
ctwtih.qtuqlr..uqpubqihpj ,qpubqcputwo.bqplptusqPubqko.uqynhhnv.bqwfjo
pqjnujfwwtnuqpwqTqopc.qu.c.rqo.prbqi.ynr.qnrqwtuj.sqWnqjhnw.qnuqko.
o..hwqnyqkotwqpwqknqw..eqtuwkpukpu.nfwqjpe.qpqkofbqi.otubqe.,qpqjhpwo
nyqlhpww,qpqjrpwoqpubqrpkkh.qnyqyphhtulqepwnurzqphhqpinfkqfw,qpubqko.
ahpwk.rqnyqko.qj.thtulqjpe.qbnvuqfanuqfw,qwepwotulqtuknqpqefhktkfb.qny
yrple.ukwqfanuqnfrqo.pbwsqTqvpwq unj .bqo.pbhnulqpjrnwwqko.qyhnnr
plptuwkqko.qnc.uqopubh.qpubqwkfuu.bsqTqvpwqtuw.uwtih.qynrqpqhnulqkte.,
ko.qjfrpk.qknhbqe.,qpubqvo.uqTqjpe.qknqv.qv.r.qtuqbpr u.wwqplptu,qpub
o.,qvtkoqpqypj.qv.k,qpwqTqynfubqpyk.rvprbw,qvtkoqihnnbqyrneqpqjfk
ynr.o.pb,qvpwqbpiitulqvpk.rqnc.rqe.s

Ynrqwne.qkte.qTqjnfhbqunkqr.jnhh.jkqvopkqopbqopaa.u.bsqKo.uqkotulwqjpe.
knqe.qwhnvhzsqPqirftw.qnuqezqk.eah.qpww.rk.bqtkw.hys

“Pr.qznfqi.kk.r?”qpw .bqko.qjfrpk.qtuqpqvotwa.rs

PkqhpwkqTqpuwv.r.bqotesqTqwpkqfas

“Bnu’kqenc.,”qo.qwptbsq“Ko.qyhnnrqtwqjnc.r.bqvtkoqwepwo.bqjrnj .rzqyrne
ko.qbr.ww.rsqZnfqjpu’kqanwwtihzqenc.qvtkonfkqep tulqpquntw.,qpubqT
ypujzq_ko.z_qpr.qnfkwtb.s”

V.qinkoqwpkqxftk.qwth.uk,qwnqkopkqv.qjnfhbqwjprj.hzqo.prq.pjoqnko.r
ir.pkotulsq.c.rzkotulqw..e.bqb.pbhzqwkthh,qifkqnuj.qwne.kotulqu.prqfw,
wne.qahpwk.rqnrqirn .uqirtj vnr ,qwhtbqbnvuqvtkoqpqrfeihtulqwnfubs
Nfkwtb.qpubqc.rzqu.prqvpwqpuqtuk.retkk.uk,qe.kphhtjqrpkkh.s

“Kopk!”qwptbqko.qjfrpk.,qvo.uqar.w.ukhzqtkqopaa.u.bqplptus

“Z.w,”qTqwptbsq“Ifkqvopkqtwqtk?”

“PqEprktpu!”qwptbqko.qjfrpk.s

Tqhtwk.u.bqplptus

“Tkqvpwqunkqht .qko.qO.pk-Rpz,”qTqwptb,qpubqynrqpqkte.qTqvpwqtujhtu.b
knqkotu qnu.qnyqko.qlr.pkqytloktul-epjotu.wqopbqwkfeih.bqplptuwkqko.
onfw.,qpwqTqopbqw..uqnu.qwkfeih.qplptuwkqko.qknv.rqnyqWo.aa.rknu
Jofrjos

Nfrqwtkfpktnuqvpwqwnqwkrpul.qpubqtujnear.o.uwtih.qkopkqynrqkor..qnr
ynfrqonfrw,qfukthqko.qbpvuqjpe.,qv.qwjprj.hzqenc.bsqPubqko.uqko.qhtlok
ythk.r.bqtu,qunkqkornfloqko.qvtubnv,qvotjoqr.eptu.bqihpj ,qifkqkornflo
pqkrtpulfhprqpa.rkfr.qi.kv..uqpqi.peqpubqpqo.paqnyqirn .uqirtj wqtuqko.
vphhqi.otubqfwsqKo.qtuk.rtnrqnyqko.q tkjo.uqv.qunvqwpvqlr.zhzqynrqko.
ytrwkqkte.s

Ko.qvtubnvqopbqi..uqifrwkqtuqizqpqepwwqnyqlprb.uqenfhb,qvotjoqyhnv.b
nc.rqko.qkpih.qfanuqvotjoqv.qopbqi..uqwtkktulqpubqhpzqpinfkqnfrqy..ks
Nfkwtb.,qko.qwnthqvpwqipu .bqotloqplptuwkqko.qonfw.sqPkqko.qknaqnyqko.
vtubnvqyrpe.qv.qjnfhbqw..qpuqfarnnk.bqbrptuata.sqKo.qyhnnrqvpwqhtkk.r.b
vtkoqwepwo.bqoprbvpr.;qko.q.ubqnyqko.q tkjo.uqknvprbwqko.qonfw.qvpw
irn .uqtukn,qpubqwtuj.qko.qbpzhtlokqwonu.qtuqko.r.,qtkqvpwq.ctb.ukqko.
lr.pk.rqaprkqnyqko.qonfw.qopbqjnhhpaw.bsqJnukrpwktulqctctbhzqvtkoqkotw
rftuqvpwqko.qu.pkqbr.ww.r,qwkptu.bqtuqko.qypwotnu,qaph.qlr..u,qpubqvtko
pqufei.rqnyqjnaa.rqpubqktuqc.ww.hwqi.hnvqtk,qko.qvphhapa.rqtetkpktul
ihf.qpubqvotk.qkth.w,qpubqpqjnfah.qnyqjnhnfr.bqwfaah.e.ukwqyhfkk.rtul
yrneqko.qvphhwqpinc.qko.q tkjo.uqrpul.s

Pwqko.qbpvuqlr.vqjh.pr.r,qv.qwpvqkornfloqko.qlpaqtuqko.qvphhqko.qinbz
nyqpqEprktpu,qwkpubtulqw.uktu.h,qTqwfaanw.,qnc.rqko.qwkthhqlhnvtul
jzhtub.rsqPkqko.qwtlokqnyqkopkqv.qjrpvh.bqpwqjtrjfewa.jkhzqpwqanwwtih.
nfkqnyqko.qkvthtlokqnyqko.q tkjo.uqtuknqko.qbpr u.wwqnyqko.qwjfhh.rzs

Pirfakhzqko.qrtlokqtuk.rar.kpktnuqbpvu.bqfanuqezqetubs

“Ko.qytykoqjzhtub.r,”qTqvotwa.r.b,q“ko.qytykoqwonkqyrneqEprw,qopw
wkrfj qkotwqonfw.qpubqifrt.bqfwqfub.rqko.qrftuw!”

Ynrqpqkte.qko.qjfrpk.qvpwqwth.uk,qpubqko.uqo.qvotwa.r.b:

“Lnbqopc.qe.rjzqfanuqfw!”

Tqo.prbqoteqar.w.ukhzqvotea.rtulqknqotew.hys

Wpc.qynrqkopkqwnfubqv.qhpzqxftk.qwkthhqtuqko.qwjfhh.rz;qTqynrqezqaprk
wjprj.qbpr.bqir.pko.,qpubqwpkqvtkoqezq.z.wqytm.bqnuqko.qyptukqhtlokqny
ko.q tkjo.uqbnnrsqTqjnfhbqgfwkqw..qko.qjfrpk.’wqypj.,qpqbte,qncph
wopa.,qpubqotwqjnhhprqpubqjfyywsqNfkwtb.qko.r.qi.lpuqpqe.kphhtj
opee.rtul,qko.uqpqctnh.ukqonnktul,qpubqko.uqplptu,qpyk.rqpqxft.k
tuk.rcph,qpqotwwtulqht .qko.qotwwtulqnyqpuq.ultu.sqKo.w.quntw.w,qynr
ko.qenwkqaprkqarnih.epktjph,qjnuktuf.bqtuk.retkk.ukhz,qpubqw..e.bqty
puzkotulqknqtujr.pw.qtuqufei.rqpwqkte.qvnr.qnusqAr.w.ukhzqpqe.pwfr.b
kofbbtulqpubqpqctirpktnuqkopkqepb.q.c.rzkotulqpinfkqfwqxftc.rqpubqko.
c.ww.hwqtuqko.qapukrzqrtulqpubqwotyk,qi.lpuqpubqjnuktuf.bsqNuj.qko.
htlokqvpwq.jhtaw.b,qpubqko.qlonwkhzq tkjo.uqbnnrvpzqi.jpe.qpiwnhfk.hz
bpr sqYnrqepuzqonfrwqv.qefwkqopc.qjrnfjo.bqko.r.,qwth.ukqpubqwotc.rtul,
fukthqnfrqktr.bqpkk.uktnuqypth.bsqsqsqs

PkqhpwkqTqynfubqezw.hyqpvp .qpubqc.rzqofulrzsqTqpeqtujhtu.bqknqi.ht.c.
v.qefwkqopc.qwa.ukqko.qlr.pk.rqanrktnuqnyqpqbpzqi.ynr.qkopkqpvp .utuls
Ezqoful.rqvpwqpkqpqwkrtb.qwnqtuwtwk.ukqkopkqtkqenc.bqe.qknqpjktnusqT
knhbqko.qjfrpk.qTqvpwqlntulqknqw.. qynnb,qpubqy.hkqezqvpzqknvprbwqko.
apukrzsqO.qepb.qe.qunqpuwv.r,qifkqwnqwnnuqpwqTqi.lpuq.pktulqko.qyptuk
untw.qTqepb.qwktrr.bqoteqfaqpubqTqo.prbqoteqjrpvhtulqpyk.rqe.s


TTs

VOPKqV.qWPVqYRNEqKO.qRFTU.BqONFW.s

Pyk.rq.pktulqv.qjr.akqipj qknqko.qwjfhh.rz,qpubqko.r.qTqefwkqopc.qbnd.b
plptu,qynrqvo.uqar.w.ukhzqTqhnn .bqrnfubqTqvpwqphnu.sqKo.qkofbbtul
ctirpktnuqjnuktuf.bqvtkoqv.prtwne.qa.rwtwk.uj.sqTqvotwa.r.bqynrqko.
jfrpk.qw.c.rphqkte.w,qpubqpkqhpwkqy.hkqezqvpzqknqko.qbnnrqnyqko.
 tkjo.usqTkqvpwqwkthhqbpzhtlok,qpubqTqa.rj.tc.bqoteqpjrnwwqko.qrnne,
hztulqplptuwkqko.qkrtpulfhprqonh.qkopkqhnn .bqnfkqfanuqko.qEprktpuws
Otwqwonfhb.rwqv.r.qofujo.b,qwnqkopkqotwqo.pbqvpwqotbb.uqyrneqe.s

Tqjnfhbqo.prqpqufei.rqnyquntw.wqphenwkqht .qkonw.qtuqpuq.ultu.qwo.b;
pubqko.qahpj.qrnj .bqvtkoqkopkqi.pktulqkofbsqKornfloqko.qpa.rkfr.qtu
ko.qvphhqTqjnfhbqw..qko.qknaqnyqpqkr..qknfjo.bqvtkoqlnhbqpubqko.qvpre
ihf.qnyqpqkrpuxfthq.c.utulqw zsqYnrqpqetufk.qnrqwnqTqr.eptu.bqvpkjotul
ko.qjfrpk.,qpubqko.uqTqpbcpuj.b,qjrnfjotulqpubqwk.aatulqvtkoq.mkr.e.
jpr.qpetbqko.qirn .uqjrnj .rzqkopkqhtkk.r.bqko.qyhnnrs

Tqknfjo.bqko.qjfrpk.’wqh.l,qpubqo.qwkprk.bqwnqctnh.ukhzqkopkqpqepwwqny
ahpwk.rqv.ukqwhtbtulqbnvuqnfkwtb.qpubqy.hhqvtkoqpqhnfbqteapjksqT
lrtaa.bqotwqpre,qy.prtulqo.qetlokqjrzqnfk,qpubqynrqpqhnulqkte.qv.
jrnfjo.bqenktnuh.wwsqKo.uqTqkfru.bqknqw..qonvqefjoqnyqnfrqrpeaprk
r.eptu.bsqKo.qb.kpjoe.ukqnyqko.qahpwk.rqopbqh.ykqpqc.rktjphqwhtkqna.u
tuqko.qb.irtw,qpubqizqrptwtulqezw.hyqjpfktnfwhzqpjrnwwqpqi.peqTqvpw
pih.qknqw..qnfkqnyqkotwqlpaqtuknqvopkqopbqi..uqnc.rutlokqpqxft.k
wfifripuqrnpbvpzsqCpwk,qtub..b,qvpwqko.qjopul.qkopkqv.qi.o.hbs

Ko.qytykoqjzhtub.rqefwkqopc.qyphh.uqrtlokqtuknqko.qetbwkqnyqko.qonfw.
v.qopbqytrwkqctwtk.bsqKo.qifthbtulqopbqcputwo.b,qjneah.k.hzqwepwo.b,
afhc.rtw.b,qpubqbtwa.rw.bqizqko.qihnvsqKo.qjzhtub.rqhpzqunvqyprqi.u.pko
ko.qnrtltuphqynfubpktnuw—b..aqtuqpqonh.,qphr.pbzqcpwkhzqhprl.rqkopuqko.
atkqTqopbqhnn .bqtuknqpkqVn tulsqKo.q.prkoqphhqrnfubqtkqopbqwahpwo.b
fub.rqkopkqkr.e.ubnfwqteapjk—“wahpwo.b”qtwqko.qnuhzqvnrb—pubqhpzqtu
o.pa.bqath.wqkopkqotbqko.qepww.wqnyqko.qpbgpj.ukqonfw.wsqTkqopbqi.opc.b
.mpjkhzqht .qefbqfub.rqko.qctnh.ukqihnvqnyqpqopee.rsqNfrqonfw.qopb
jnhhpaw.bqipj vprb;qko.qyrnukqanrktnu,q.c.uqnuqko.qlrnfubqyhnnr,qopb
i..uqb.wkrnz.bqjneah.k.hz;qizqpqjopuj.qko.q tkjo.uqpubqwjfhh.rzqopb
.wjpa.b,qpubqwknnbqifrt.bqunvqfub.rqwnthqpubqrftuw,qjhnw.bqtuqizqknuw
nyq.prkoqnuq.c.rzqwtb.qwpc.qknvprbwqko.qjzhtub.rsqNc.rqkopkqpwa.jkqv.
ofulqunvqnuqko.qc.rzq.bl.qnyqko.qlr.pkqjtrjfhprqatkqko.qEprktpuwqv.r.
.ulpl.bqtuqep tulsqKo.qo.pczqi.pktulqwnfubqvpwq.ctb.ukhzqgfwkqi.otub
fw,qpubq.c.rqpubqplptuqpqirtlokqlr..uqcpanfrqbrnc.qfaqht .qpqc.th
pjrnwwqnfrqa..aonh.s

Ko.qjzhtub.rqvpwqphr.pbzqna.u.bqtuqko.qj.ukr.qnyqko.qatk,qpubqnuqko.
yprko.rq.bl.qnyqko.qatk,qpetbqko.qwepwo.bqpubqlrpc.h-o.pa.bqworfii.rz,
nu.qnyqko.qlr.pkqytloktul-epjotu.w,qb.w.rk.bqizqtkwqnjjfapuk,qwknnb
wktyyqpubqkphhqplptuwkqko.q.c.utulqw zsqPkqytrwkqTqwjprj.hzqunktj.bqko.
atkqpubqko.qjzhtub.r,qphkonfloqtkqopwqi..uqjnuc.ut.ukqknqb.wjrti.qko.e
ytrwk,qnuqpjjnfukqnyqko.q.mkrpnrbtuprzqlhtkk.rtulqe.joputweqTqwpvqifwz
tuqko.q.mjpcpktnu,qpubqnuqpjjnfukqnyqko.qwkrpul.qjr.pkfr.wqkopkqv.r.
jrpvhtulqwhnvhzqpubqaptuyfhhzqpjrnwwqko.qo.pa.bqenfhbqu.prqtks

Ko.qe.joputweqtkqj.rkptuhzqvpwqkopkqo.hbqezqpkk.uktnuqytrwksqTkqvpwqnu.
nyqkonw.qjneahtjpk.bqypirtjwqkopkqopc.qwtuj.qi..uqjphh.b
opubhtul-epjotu.w,qpubqko.qwkfbzqnyqvotjoqopwqphr.pbzqltc.uqwfjoqpu
.unrenfwqtea.kfwqknqk.rr.wkrtphqtuc.uktnusqPwqtkqbpvu.bqfanuqe.qytrwk,
tkqar.w.uk.bqpqwnrkqnyqe.kphhtjqwatb.rqvtkoqytc.qgntuk.b,qplth.qh.lw,
pubqvtkoqpuq.mkrpnrbtuprzqufei.rqnyqgntuk.bqh.c.rw,qiprw,qpubqr.pjotul
pubqjhfkjotulqk.ukpjh.wqpinfkqtkwqinbzsqEnwkqnyqtkwqprewqv.r.
r.krpjk.b,qifkqvtkoqkor..qhnulqk.ukpjh.wqtkqvpwqytwotulqnfkqpqufei.rqny
rnbw,qahpk.w,qpubqiprwqvotjoqhtu.bqko.qjnc.rtulqpubqpaapr.ukhz
wkr.ulko.u.bqko.qvphhwqnyqko.qjzhtub.rsqKo.w.,qpwqtkq.mkrpjk.bqko.e,
v.r.qhtyk.bqnfkqpubqb.anwtk.bqfanuqpqh.c.hqwfrypj.qnyq.prkoqi.otubqtks

Tkwqenktnuqvpwqwnqwvtyk,qjneah.m,qpubqa.ry.jkqkopkqpkqytrwkqTqbtbqunk
w..qtkqpwqpqepjotu.,qtuqwatk.qnyqtkwqe.kphhtjqlhtkk.rsqKo.
ytloktul-epjotu.wqv.r.qjnnrbtupk.bqpubqputepk.bqknqpuq.mkrpnrbtuprz
atkjo,qifkqunkotulqknqjneapr.qvtkoqkotwsqA.nah.qvonqopc.qu.c.rqw..u
ko.w.qwkrfjkfr.w,qpubqopc.qnuhzqko.qthh-tepltu.bq.yynrkwqnyqprktwkwqnr
ko.qtea.ry.jkqb.wjrtaktnuwqnyqwfjoq.z.-vtku.ww.wqpwqezw.hyqknqlnqfanu,
wjprj.hzqr.phtw.qkopkqhtctulqxfphtkzs

Tqr.jphhqaprktjfhprhzqko.qthhfwkrpktnuqnyqnu.qnyqko.qytrwkqapeaoh.kwqkn
ltc.qpqjnuw.jfktc.qpjjnfukqnyqko.qvprsqKo.qprktwkqopbq.ctb.ukhzqepb.qp
opwkzqwkfbzqnyqnu.qnyqko.qytloktul-epjotu.w,qpubqko.r.qotwq unvh.bl.
.ub.bsqO.qar.w.uk.bqko.eqpwqkthk.b,qwktyyqkrtanbw,qvtkonfkq.tko.r
yh.mtithtkzqnrqwfikh.kz,qpubqvtkoqpuqphknl.ko.rqetwh.pbtulqenunknuzqny
.yy.jksqKo.qapeaoh.kqjnukptutulqko.w.qr.ub.rtulwqopbqpqjnuwtb.rpih.
cnlf.,qpubqTqe.uktnuqko.eqo.r.qwteahzqknqvpruqko.qr.pb.rqplptuwkqko.
tear.wwtnuqko.zqepzqopc.qjr.pk.bsqKo.zqv.r.qunqenr.qht .qko.qEprktpuwqT
wpvqtuqpjktnuqkopuqpqBfkjoqbnhhqtwqht .qpqofepuqi.tulsqKnqezqetub,qko.
apeaoh.kqvnfhbqopc.qi..uqefjoqi.kk.rqvtkonfkqko.es

Pkqytrwk,qTqwpz,qko.qopubhtul-epjotu.qbtbqunkqtear.wwqe.qpwqpqepjotu.,
ifkqpwqpqjrpiht .qjr.pkfr.qvtkoqpqlhtkk.rtulqtuk.lfe.uk,qko.
jnukrnhhtulqEprktpuqvonw.qb.htjpk.qk.ukpjh.wqpjkfpk.bqtkwqenc.e.ukw
w..etulqknqi.qwteahzqko.q.xftcph.ukqnyqko.qjrpi’wqj.r.irphqanrktnusqIfk
ko.uqTqa.rj.tc.bqko.qr.w.eihpuj.qnyqtkwqlr.z-irnvu,qwotuz,qh.pko.rz
tuk.lfe.ukqknqkopkqnyqko.qnko.rqwarpvhtulqinbt.wqi.znub,qpubqko.qkrf.
upkfr.qnyqkotwqb.mk.rnfwqvnr epuqbpvu.bqfanuqe.sqVtkoqkopkqr.phtwpktnu
ezqtuk.r.wkqwotyk.bqknqkonw.qnko.rqjr.pkfr.w,qko.qr.phqEprktpuws
Phr.pbzqTqopbqopbqpqkrpuwt.ukqtear.wwtnuqnyqko.w.,qpubqko.qytrwkqupfw.p
unqhnul.rqniwjfr.bqezqniw.rcpktnusqEnr.nc.r,qTqvpwqjnuj.ph.bqpub
enktnuh.ww,qpubqfub.rqunqfrl.ujzqnyqpjktnus

Ko.zqv.r.,qTqunvqwpv,qko.qenwkqfu.prkohzqjr.pkfr.wqtkqtwqanwwtih.qkn
jnuj.tc.sqKo.zqv.r.qofl.qrnfubqinbt.w—nr,qrpko.r,qo.pbw—pinfkqynfrqy..k
tuqbtpe.k.r,q.pjoqinbzqopctulqtuqyrnukqnyqtkqpqypj.sqKotwqypj.qopbqun
unwkrthw—tub..b,qko.qEprktpuwqbnqunkqw..eqknqopc.qopbqpuzqw.uw.qny
we.hh,qifkqtkqopbqpqaptrqnyqc.rzqhprl.qbpr -jnhnfr.bq.z.w,qpubqgfwk
i.u.pkoqkotwqpq tubqnyqyh.wozqi.p sqTuqko.qipj qnyqkotwqo.pbqnrqinbz—T
wjprj.hzq unvqonvqknqwa.p qnyqtk—vpwqko.qwtulh.qktlokqkzeaputjqwfrypj.,
wtuj.q unvuqknqi.qpupknetjphhzqpuq.pr,qkonfloqtkqefwkqopc.qi..uqphenwk
fw.h.wwqtuqnfrqb.uw.qptrsqTuqpqlrnfaqrnfubqko.qenfkoqv.r.qwtmk..u
wh.ub.r,qphenwkqvotaht .qk.ukpjh.w,qprrpul.bqtuqkvnqifujo.wqnyq.tlok
.pjosqKo.w.qifujo.wqopc.qwtuj.qi..uqupe.bqrpko.rqpakhz,qizqkopk
btwktulftwo.bqpupknetwk,qArny.wwnrqOnv.w,qko.q_opubw_sq.c.uqpwqTqwpv
ko.w.qEprktpuwqynrqko.qytrwkqkte.qko.zqw..e.bqknqi.q.ub.pcnfrtulqkn
rptw.qko.ew.hc.wqnuqko.w.qopubw,qifkqnyqjnfrw.,qvtkoqko.qtujr.pw.b
v.tlokqnyqk.rr.wkrtphqjnubtktnuw,qkotwqvpwqteanwwtih.sqKo.r.qtwqr.pwnu
knqwfaanw.qkopkqnuqEprwqko.zqepzqopc.qarnlr.ww.bqfanuqko.eqvtkoqwne.
ypjthtkzs

Ko.qtuk.ruphqpupknez,qTqepzqr.epr qo.r.,qpwqbtww.jktnuqopwqwtuj.qwonvu,
vpwqphenwkq.xfphhzqwteah.sqKo.qlr.pk.rqaprkqnyqko.qwkrfjkfr.qvpwqko.
irptu,qw.ubtulq.unrenfwqu.rc.wqknqko.q.z.w,q.pr,qpubqkpjkth.qk.ukpjh.ws
I.wtb.wqkotwqv.r.qko.qifh zqhfulw,qtuknqvotjoqko.qenfkoqna.u.b,qpubqko.
o.prkqpubqtkwqc.ww.hwsqKo.qafhenuprzqbtwkr.wwqjpfw.bqizqko.qb.uw.r
pkenwao.r.qpubqlr.pk.rqlrpctkpktnuphqpkkrpjktnuqvpwqnuhzqknnq.ctb.ukqtu
ko.qjnucfhwtc.qenc.e.ukwqnyqko.qnfk.rqw tus

Pubqkotwqvpwqko.qwfeqnyqko.qEprktpuqnrlpuwsqWkrpul.qpwqtkqepzqw..eqknqp
ofepuqi.tul,qphhqko.qjneah.mqpaaprpkfwqnyqbtl.wktnu,qvotjoqep .wqfaqko.
ifh qnyqnfrqinbt.w,qbtbqunkq.mtwkqtuqko.qEprktpuwsqKo.zqv.r.
o.pbw—e.r.hzqo.pbwsq.ukrpthwqko.zqopbqunu.sqKo.zqbtbqunkq.pk,qefjoqh.ww
btl.wksqTuwk.pb,qko.zqknn qko.qyr.wo,qhtctulqihnnbqnyqnko.rqjr.pkfr.w,
pubq_tug.jk.b_qtkqtuknqko.trqnvuqc.tuwsqTqopc.qezw.hyqw..uqkotwqi.tul
bnu.,qpwqTqwophhqe.uktnuqtuqtkwqahpj.sqIfk,qwxf.petwoqpwqTqepzqw..e,qT
jpuunkqirtulqezw.hyqknqb.wjrti.qvopkqTqjnfhbqunkq.ubfr.q.c.uqkn
jnuktuf.qvpkjotulsqH.kqtkqwfyytj.qknqwpz,qihnnbqnikptu.bqyrneqpqwkthh
htctulqputeph,qtuqenwkqjpw.wqyrneqpqofepuqi.tul,qvpwqrfuqbtr.jkhzqiz
e.puwqnyqpqhtkkh.qata.kk.qtuknqko.qr.jtat.ukqjpuphsqsqsqs

Ko.qipr.qtb.pqnyqkotwqtwqunqbnfikqonrrtihzqr.afhwtc.qknqfw,qifkqpkqko.
wpe.qkte.qTqkotu qkopkqv.qwonfhbqr.e.ei.rqonvqr.afhwtc.qnfrqjprutcnrnfw
opitkwqvnfhbqw..eqknqpuqtuk.hhtl.ukqrpiitks

Ko.qaozwtnhnltjphqpbcpukpl.wqnyqko.qarpjktj.qnyqtug.jktnuqpr.
fub.utpih.,qtyqnu.qkotu wqnyqko.qkr.e.ubnfwqvpwk.qnyqofepuqkte.qpub
.u.rlzqnjjpwtnu.bqizq.pktulqpubqko.qbtl.wktc.qarnj.wwsqNfrqinbt.wqpr.
ophyqepb.qfaqnyqlhpubwqpubqkfi.wqpubqnrlpuw,qnjjfat.bqtuqkfrutul
o.k.rnl.u.nfwqynnbqtuknqihnnbsqKo.qbtl.wktc.qarnj.ww.wqpubqko.tr
r.pjktnuqfanuqko.qu.rcnfwqwzwk.eqwpaqnfrqwkr.ulkoqpubqjnhnfrqnfrqetubws
E.uqlnqopaazqnrqetw.rpih.qpwqko.zqopc.qo.phkozqnrqfuo.phkozqhtc.rw,qnr
wnfubqlpwkrtjqlhpubwsqIfkqko.qEprktpuwqv.r.qhtyk.bqpinc.qphhqko.w.
nrlputjqyhfjkfpktnuwqnyqennbqpubq.enktnus

Ko.trqfub.utpih.qar.y.r.uj.qynrqe.uqpwqko.trqwnfrj.qnyqunfrtwoe.ukqtw
aprkhzq.mahptu.bqizqko.qupkfr.qnyqko.qr.eptuwqnyqko.qctjktewqko.zqopb
irnflokqvtkoqko.eqpwqarnctwtnuwqyrneqEprwsqKo.w.qjr.pkfr.w,qknqgfbl.
yrneqko.qwortc.hh.bqr.eptuwqkopkqopc.qyphh.uqtuknqofepuqopubw,qv.r.
ita.bwqvtkoqyhtewz,qwthtjtnfwqw .h.knuwq(phenwkqht .qkonw.qnyqko.
wthtjtnfwqwanul.w)qpubqy..ih.qefwjfhpkfr.,qwkpubtulqpinfkqwtmqy..kqotlo
pubqopctulqrnfub,q.r.jkqo.pbw,qpubqhprl.q.z.wqtuqyhtukzqwnj .kwsqKvnqnr
kor..qnyqko.w.qw..eqknqopc.qi..uqirnflokqtuq.pjoqjzhtub.r,qpubqphhqv.r.
 thh.bqi.ynr.q.prkoqvpwqr.pjo.bsqTkqvpwqgfwkqpwqv.hhqynrqko.e,qynrqko.
e.r.qpkk.eakqknqwkpubqfartlokqfanuqnfrqahpu.kqvnfhbqopc.qirn .uq.c.rz
inu.qtuqko.trqinbt.ws

Pubqvoth.qTqpeq.ulpl.bqtuqkotwqb.wjrtaktnu,qTqepzqpbbqtuqkotwqahpj.
j.rkptuqyfrko.rqb.kpthwqvotjo,qphkonfloqko.zqv.r.qunkqphhq.ctb.ukqknqfw
pkqko.qkte.,qvthhq.upih.qko.qr.pb.rqvonqtwqfupjxfptuk.bqvtkoqko.eqkn
ynreqpqjh.pr.rqatjkfr.qnyqko.w.qnyy.uwtc.qjr.pkfr.ws

Tuqkor..qnko.rqantukwqko.trqaozwtnhnlzqbtyy.r.bqwkrpul.hzqyrneqnfrws
Ko.trqnrlputwewqbtbqunkqwh..a,qpuzqenr.qkopuqko.qo.prkqnyqepuqwh..aws
Wtuj.qko.zqopbqunq.mk.uwtc.qefwjfhprqe.joputweqknqr.jfa.rpk.,qkopk
a.rtnbtjphq.mktujktnuqvpwqfu unvuqknqko.esqKo.zqopbqhtkkh.qnrqunqw.uw.
nyqypktlf.,qtkqvnfhbqw..esqNuq.prkoqko.zqjnfhbqu.c.rqopc.qenc.bqvtkonfk
.yynrk,qz.kq.c.uqknqko.qhpwkqko.zq .akqtuqpjktnusqTuqkv.ukz-ynfrqonfrw
ko.zqbtbqkv.ukz-ynfrqonfrwqnyqvnr ,qpwq.c.uqnuq.prkoqtwqa.ropawqko.
jpw.qvtkoqko.qpukws

Tuqko.qu.mkqahpj.,qvnub.ryfhqpwqtkqw..ewqtuqpqw.mfphqvnrhb,qko.
Eprktpuwqv.r.qpiwnhfk.hzqvtkonfkqw.m,qpubqko.r.ynr.qvtkonfkqpuzqnyqko.
kfefhkfnfwq.enktnuwqkopkqprtw.qyrneqkopkqbtyy.r.uj.qpenulqe.usqPqznful
Eprktpu,qko.r.qjpuqunvqi.qunqbtwafk.,qvpwqr.phhzqinruqfanuq.prkoqbfrtul
ko.qvpr,qpubqtkqvpwqynfubqpkkpjo.bqknqtkwqapr.uk,qaprktphhzq_ifbb.b_
nyy,qgfwkqpwqznfulqhthzifhiwqifbqnyy,qnrqht .qko.qznfulqputephwqtuqko.
yr.wo-vpk.rqanhzas

Tuqepu,qtuqphhqko.qotlo.rqk.rr.wkrtphqputephw,qwfjoqpqe.konbqny
tujr.pw.qopwqbtwpaa.pr.b;qifkq.c.uqnuqkotwq.prkoqtkqvpwqj.rkptuhzqko.
artetktc.qe.konbsqPenulqko.qhnv.rqputephw,qfaq.c.uqknqkonw.qytrwk
jnfwtuwqnyqko.qc.rk.irpk.bqputephw,qko.qKfutjpk.w,qko.qkvnqarnj.ww.w
njjfrqwtb.qizqwtb.,qifkqytuphhzqko.qw.mfphqe.konbqwfa.rw.b.bqtkw
jnea.ktknrqphknl.ko.rsqNuqEprw,qonv.c.r,qgfwkqko.qr.c.rw.qopw
paapr.ukhzqi..uqko.qjpw.s

Tkqtwqvnrkozqnyqr.epr qkopkqpqj.rkptuqwa.jfhpktc.qvrtk.rqny
xfpwt-wjt.uktytjqr.afk.,qvrtktulqhnulqi.ynr.qko.qEprktpuqtucpwtnu,qbtb
ynr.jpwkqynrqepuqpqytuphqwkrfjkfr.qunkqfuht .qko.qpjkfphqEprktpu
jnubtktnusqOtwqarnao.jz,qTqr.e.ei.r,qpaa.pr.bqtuqUnc.ei.rqnrqB.j.ei.r,
1893,qtuqpqhnul-b.yfujkqafihtjpktnu,qko.q_AphhqEphhqIfbl.k_,qpubqT
r.jphhqpqjprtjpkfr.qnyqtkqtuqpqar.-Eprktpuqa.rtnbtjphqjphh.bq_Afujo_s
O.qantuk.bqnfk—vrtktulqtuqpqynnhtwo,qypj.ktnfwqknu.—kopkqko.qa.ry.jktnu
nyqe.joputjphqpaahtpuj.wqefwkqfhktepk.hzqwfa.rw.b.qhteiw;qko.
a.ry.jktnuqnyqjo.etjphqb.ctj.w,qbtl.wktnu;qkopkqwfjoqnrlpuwqpwqoptr,
.mk.ruphqunw.,qk..ko,q.prw,qpubqjotuqv.r.qunqhnul.rq.ww.uktphqaprkwqny
ko.qofepuqi.tul,qpubqkopkqko.qk.ub.ujzqnyqupkfrphqw.h.jktnuqvnfhbqht.
tuqko.qbtr.jktnuqnyqko.trqwk.pbzqbtetufktnuqkornfloqko.qjnetulqpl.ws
Ko.qirptuqphnu.qr.eptu.bqpqjprbtuphqu.j.wwtkzsqNuhzqnu.qnko.rqaprkqny
ko.qinbzqopbqpqwkrnulqjpw.qynrqwfrctcph,qpubqkopkqvpwqko.qopub,
“k.pjo.rqpubqpl.ukqnyqko.qirptus”qVoth.qko.qr.wkqnyqko.qinbzqbvtubh.b,
ko.qopubwqvnfhbqlrnvqhprl.rs

Ko.r.qtwqepuzqpqkrf.qvnrbqvrtkk.uqtuqg.wk,qpubqo.r.qtuqko.qEprktpuwqv.
opc.qi.znubqbtwafk.qko.qpjkfphqpjjneahtwoe.ukqnyqwfjoqpqwfaar.wwtnuqny
ko.qputephqwtb.qnyqko.qnrlputweqizqko.qtuk.hhtl.uj.sqKnqe.qtkqtwqxftk.
jr.btih.qkopkqko.qEprktpuwqepzqi.qb.wj.ub.bqyrneqi.tulwqunkqfuht .
nfrw.hc.w,qizqpqlrpbfphqb.c.hnae.ukqnyqirptuqpubqopubwq(ko.qhpkk.r
ltctulqrtw.qknqko.qkvnqifujo.wqnyqb.htjpk.qk.ukpjh.wqpkqhpwk)qpkqko.
.ma.uw.qnyqko.qr.wkqnyqko.qinbzsqVtkonfkqko.qinbzqko.qirptuqvnfhb,qny
jnfrw.,qi.jne.qpqe.r.qw.hytwoqtuk.hhtl.uj.,qvtkonfkqpuzqnyqko.
.enktnuphqwfiwkrpkfeqnyqko.qofepuqi.tuls

Ko.qhpwkqwpht.ukqantukqtuqvotjoqko.qwzwk.ewqnyqko.w.qjr.pkfr.wqbtyy.r.b
yrneqnfrwqvpwqtuqvopkqnu.qetlokqopc.qkonflokqpqc.rzqkrtctphqaprktjfhprs
Etjrn-nrlputwew,qvotjoqjpfw.qwnqefjoqbtw.pw.qpubqaptuqnuq.prko,qopc.
.tko.rqu.c.rqpaa.pr.bqfanuqEprwqnrqEprktpuqwputkprzqwjt.uj.q.htetupk.b
ko.eqpl.wqplnsqPqofubr.bqbtw.pw.w,qphhqko.qy.c.rwqpubqjnukpltnuwqny
ofepuqhty.,qjnuwfeaktnu,qjpuj.rw,qkfenfrwqpubqwfjoqenritbtkt.w,qu.c.r
.uk.rqko.qwjo.e.qnyqko.trqhty.sqPubqwa.p tulqnyqko.qbtyy.r.uj.wqi.kv..u
ko.qhty.qnuqEprwqpubqk.rr.wkrtphqhty.,qTqepzqphhfb.qo.r.qknqko.qjfrtnfw
wfll.wktnuwqnyqko.qr.bqv..bs

Paapr.ukhzqko.qc.l.kpih.q tulbneqtuqEprw,qtuwk.pbqnyqopctulqlr..uqynrqp
bnetupukqjnhnfr,qtwqnyqpqctctbqihnnb-r.bqktuksqPkqpuzqrpk.,qko.qw..bw
votjoqko.qEprktpuwq(tuk.uktnuphhzqnrqpjjtb.ukphhz)qirnflokqvtkoqko.e
lpc.qrtw.qtuqphhqjpw.wqknqr.b-jnhnfr.bqlrnvkowsqNuhzqkopkq unvu
anafhprhzqpwqko.qr.bqv..b,qonv.c.r,qlptu.bqpuzqynnktulqtuqjnea.ktktnu
vtkoqk.rr.wkrtphqynrewsqKo.qr.bqjr..a.rqvpwqxftk.qpqkrpuwtknrzqlrnvko,
pubqy.vqa.nah.qopc.qw..uqtkqlrnvtulsqYnrqpqkte.,qonv.c.r,qko.qr.bqv..b
lr.vqvtkoqpwknutwotulqctlnfrqpubqhfmfrtpuj.sqTkqwar.pbqfaqko.qwtb.wqny
ko.qatkqizqko.qkotrbqnrqynfrkoqbpzqnyqnfrqteartwnue.uk,qpubqtkw
jpjkfw-ht .qirpujo.wqynre.bqpqjpretu.qyrtul.qknqko.q.bl.wqnyqnfr
krtpulfhprqvtubnvsqPubqpyk.rvprbwqTqynfubqtkqirnpbjpwkqkornflonfkqko.
jnfukrz,qpubq.wa.jtphhzqvo.r.c.rqko.r.qvpwqpqwkr.peqnyqvpk.rs

Ko.qEprktpuwqopbqvopkqpaa.prwqknqopc.qi..uqpuqpfbtknrzqnrlpu,qpqwtulh.
rnfubqbrfeqpkqko.qipj qnyqko.qo.pb-inbz,qpubq.z.wqvtkoqpqctwfphqrpul.
unkqc.rzqbtyy.r.ukqyrneqnfrwq.mj.akqkopk,qpjjnrbtulqknqAothtaw,qihf.
pubqctnh.kqv.r.qpwqihpj qknqko.esqTkqtwqjneenuhzqwfaanw.bqkopkqko.z
jneefutjpk.bqizqwnfubwqpubqk.ukpjfhprql.wktjfhpktnuw;qkotwqtwqpww.rk.b,
ynrqtuwkpuj.,qtuqko.qpih.qifkqopwkthzqjneath.bqapeaoh.kq(vrtkk.u
.ctb.ukhzqizqwne.nu.qunkqpuq.z.-vtku.wwqnyqEprktpuqpjktnuw)qknqvotjoqT
opc.qphr.pbzqphhfb.b,qpubqvotjo,qwnqypr,qopwqi..uqko.qjot.yqwnfrj.qny
tuynrepktnuqjnuj.rutulqko.esqUnvqunqwfrctctulqofepuqi.tulqwpvqwnqefjo
nyqko.qEprktpuwqtuqpjktnuqpwqTqbtbsqTqkp .qunqjr.btkqknqezw.hyqynrqpu
pjjtb.uk,qifkqko.qypjkqtwqwnsqPubqTqpww.rkqkopkqTqvpkjo.bqko.eqjhnw.hz
kte.qpyk.rqkte.,qpubqkopkqTqopc.qw..uqynfr,qytc.,qpubq(nuj.)qwtmqny
ko.eqwhflltwohzqa.rynretulqko.qenwkq.hpinrpk.hzqjneahtjpk.bqna.rpktnuw
knl.ko.rqvtkonfkq.tko.rqwnfubqnrql.wkfr.sqKo.trqa.jfhtprqonnktul
tucprtpihzqar.j.b.bqy..btul;qtkqopbqunqenbfhpktnu,qpubqvpw,qTqi.ht.c.,
tuqunqw.uw.qpqwtluph,qifkqe.r.hzqko.q.matrpktnuqnyqptrqar.aprpknrzqkn
ko.qwfjktnuphqna.rpktnusqTqopc.qpqj.rkptuqjhpteqknqpkqh.pwkqpu
.h.e.ukprzq unvh.bl.qnyqawzjonhnlz,qpubqtuqkotwqepkk.rqTqpe
jnuctuj.b—pwqytrehzqpwqTqpeqjnuctuj.bqnyqpuzkotul—kopkqko.qEprktpuw
tuk.rjopul.bqkonflokwqvtkonfkqpuzqaozwtjphqtuk.re.btpktnusqPubqTqopc.
i..uqjnuctuj.bqnyqkotwqtuqwatk.qnyqwkrnulqar.jnuj.aktnuwsqI.ynr.qko.
Eprktpuqtucpwtnu,qpwqpuqnjjpwtnuphqr.pb.rqo.r.qnrqko.r.qepzqr.e.ei.r,qT
opbqvrtkk.uqvtkoqwne.qhtkkh.qc.o.e.uj.qplptuwkqko.qk.h.apkotjqko.nrzs

Ko.qEprktpuwqvnr.qunqjhnkotulsqKo.trqjnuj.aktnuwqnyqnrupe.ukqpub
b.jnrfeqv.r.qu.j.wwprthzqbtyy.r.ukqyrneqnfrw;qpubqunkqnuhzqv.r.qko.z
.ctb.ukhzqefjoqh.wwqw.uwtih.qnyqjopul.wqnyqk.ea.rpkfr.qkopuqv.qpr.,qifk
jopul.wqnyqar.wwfr.qbnqunkqw..eqknqopc.qpyy.jk.bqko.trqo.phkoqpkqphh
w.rtnfwhzsqZ.kqkonfloqko.zqvnr.qunqjhnkotul,qtkqvpwqtuqko.qnko.r
prktytjtphqpbbtktnuwqknqko.trqinbthzqr.wnfrj.wqkopkqko.trqlr.pk
wfa.rtnrtkzqnc.rqepuqhpzsqV.qe.u,qvtkoqnfrqitjzjh.wqpubqrnpb-w pk.w,
nfrqHtht.ukophqwnprtul-epjotu.w,qnfrqlfuwqpubqwktj wqpubqwnqynrko,qpr.
gfwkqtuqko.qi.ltuutulqnyqko.q.cnhfktnuqkopkqko.qEprktpuwqopc.qvnr .b
nfksqKo.zqopc.qi.jne.qarpjktjphhzqe.r.qirptuw,qv.prtulqbtyy.r.ukqinbt.w
pjjnrbtulqknqko.trqu..bwqgfwkqpwqe.uqv.prqwftkwqnyqjhnko.wqpubqkp .qp
itjzjh.qtuqpqofrrzqnrqpuqfeir.hhpqtuqko.qv.ksqPubqnyqko.trqpaahtpuj.w,
a.ropawqunkotulqtwqenr.qvnub.ryfhqknqpqepuqkopuqko.qjfrtnfwqypjkqkopk
vopkqtwqko.qbnetupukqy.pkfr.qnyqphenwkqphhqofepuqb.ctj.wqtuqe.joputwe
twqpiw.uk—ko.q_vo..h_qtwqpiw.uk;qpenulqphhqko.qkotulwqko.zqirnflokqkn
.prkoqko.r.qtwqunqkrpj.qnrqwfll.wktnuqnyqko.trqfw.qnyqvo..hwsqNu.qvnfhb
opc.qpkqh.pwkq.ma.jk.bqtkqtuqhnjnenktnusqPubqtuqkotwqjnuu.jktnuqtkqtw
jfrtnfwqknqr.epr qkopkq.c.uqnuqkotwq.prkoqUpkfr.qopwqu.c.rqotkqfanuqko.
vo..h,qnrqopwqar.y.rr.bqnko.rq.ma.bt.ukwqknqtkwqb.c.hnae.uksqPubqunk
nuhzqbtbqko.qEprktpuwq.tko.rqunkq unvqnyq(votjoqtwqtujr.btih.),qnr
piwkptuqyrne,qko.qvo..h,qifkqtuqko.trqpaaprpkfwqwtulfhprhzqhtkkh.qfw.
twqepb.qnyqko.qytm.bqatcnkqnrqr.hpktc.hzqytm.bqatcnk,qvtkoqjtrjfhpr
enktnuwqko.r.pinfkqjnuytu.bqknqnu.qahpu.sqPhenwkqphhqko.qgntukwqnyqko.
epjotu.rzqar.w.ukqpqjneahtjpk.bqwzwk.eqnyqwhtbtulqaprkwqenctulqnc.r
wephhqifkqi.pfktyfhhzqjfrc.bqyrtjktnuqi.prtulwsqPubqvoth.qfanuqkotw
epkk.rqnyqb.kpth,qtkqtwqr.epr pih.qkopkqko.qhnulqh.c.rpl.wqnyqko.tr
epjotu.wqpr.qtuqenwkqjpw.wqpjkfpk.bqizqpqwnrkqnyqwopeqefwjfhpkfr.qny
ko.qbtw wqtuqpuq.hpwktjqwo.pko;qko.w.qbtw wqi.jne.qanhprtw.bqpubqbrpvu
jhnw.hzqpubqanv.ryfhhzqknl.ko.rqvo.uqkrpc.rw.bqizqpqjfrr.ukqny
.h.jkrtjtkzsqTuqkotwqvpzqko.qjfrtnfwqaprphh.htweqknqputephqenktnuw,
votjoqvpwqwnqwkrt tulqpubqbtwkfritulqknqko.qofepuqi.onhb.r,qvpw
pkkptu.bsqWfjoqxfpwt-efwjh.wqpinfub.bqtuqko.qjrpiht .qopubhtul-epjotu.
votjo,qnuqezqytrwkqa..atulqnfkqnyqko.qwhtk,qTqvpkjo.bqfuapj tulqko.
jzhtub.rsqTkqw..e.bqtuytutk.hzqenr.qphtc.qkopuqko.qpjkfphqEprktpuw
hztulqi.znubqtkqtuqko.qwfuw.kqhtlok,qapuktul,qwktrrtulqtu.yy.jkfph
k.ukpjh.w,qpubqenctulqy..ihzqpyk.rqko.trqcpwkqgnfru.zqpjrnwwqwapj.s

Voth.qTqvpwqwkthhqvpkjotulqko.trqwhflltwoqenktnuwqtuqko.qwfuhtlok,qpub
unktulq.pjoqwkrpul.qb.kpthqnyqko.trqynre,qko.qjfrpk.qr.etub.bqe.qnyqotw
ar.w.uj.qizqafhhtulqctnh.ukhzqpkqezqpresqTqkfru.bqknqpqwjnvhtulqypj.,
pubqwth.uk,q.hnxf.ukqhtawsqO.qvpuk.bqko.qwhtk,qvotjoqa.retkk.bqnuhzqnu.
nyqfwqknqa..aqkornflo;qpubqwnqTqopbqknqynr.lnqvpkjotulqko.eqynrqpqkte.
voth.qo.q.ugnz.bqkopkqartcth.l.s

Vo.uqTqhnn .bqplptu,qko.qifwzqopubhtul-epjotu.qopbqphr.pbzqafkqknl.ko.r
w.c.rphqnyqko.qat.j.wqnyqpaaprpkfwqtkqopbqkp .uqnfkqnyqko.qjzhtub.r
tuknqpqwopa.qopctulqpuqfuetwkp pih.qht .u.wwqknqtkwqnvu;qpubqbnvuqnu
ko.qh.ykqpqifwzqhtkkh.qbtlltulqe.joputweqopbqjne.qtuknqct.v,q.etkktul
g.kwqnyqlr..uqcpanfrqpubqvnr tulqtkwqvpzqrnfubqko.qatk,q.mjpcpktulqpub
.eipu tulqtuqpqe.konbtjphqpubqbtwjrtetupktulqepuu.rsqKotwqtkqvpwqvotjo
opbqjpfw.bqko.qr.lfhprqi.pktulquntw.,qpubqko.qrozkoetjqwonj wqkopkqopb
 .akqnfrqrftunfwqr.yfl.qxftc.rtulsqTkqata.bqpubqvotwkh.bqpwqtkqvnr .bs
WnqyprqpwqTqjnfhbqw..,qko.qkotulqvpwqvtkonfkqpqbtr.jktulqEprktpuqpk
phhs


TTTs

KO.qBPZWqNYqTEARTWNUE.UKs

Ko.qprrtcphqnyqpqw.jnubqytloktul-epjotu.qbrnc.qfwqyrneqnfrqa..aonh.
tuknqko.qwjfhh.rz,qynrqv.qy.pr.bqkopkqyrneqotwq.h.cpktnuqko.qEprktpu
etlokqw..qbnvuqfanuqfwqi.otubqnfrqiprrt.rsqPkqpqhpk.rqbpk.qv.qi.lpuqkn
y..hqh.wwqtuqbpul.rqnyqko.trq.z.w,qynrqknqpuq.z.qtuqko.qbpddh.qnyqko.
wfuhtlokqnfkwtb.qnfrqr.yfl.qefwkqopc.qi..uqihpu qihpj u.ww,qifkqpk
ytrwkqko.qwhtlok.wkqwfll.wktnuqnyqpaarnpjoqbrnc.qfwqtuknqko.qwjfhh.rz
tuqo.prk-korniitulqr.kr.pksqZ.kqk.rrtih.qpwqvpwqko.qbpul.rqv.qtujfrr.b,
ko.qpkkrpjktnuqnyqa..atulqvpwqynrqinkoqnyqfwqtrr.wtwktih.sqPubqTqr.jphh
unvqvtkoqpqwnrkqnyqvnub.rqkopk,qtuqwatk.qnyqko.qtuytutk.qbpul.rqtu
votjoqv.qv.r.qi.kv..uqwkprcpktnuqpubqpqwkthhqenr.qk.rrtih.qb.pko,qv.
jnfhbqz.kqwkrfllh.qitkk.rhzqynrqkopkqonrrtih.qartcth.l.qnyqwtloksqV.
vnfhbqrpj.qpjrnwwqko.q tkjo.uqtuqpqlrnk.wxf.qvpzqi.kv..uq.pl.ru.wwqpub
ko.qbr.pbqnyqep tulqpquntw.,qpubqwkrt .q.pjoqnko.r,qpubqkorfwkqpub
 tj ,qvtkotuqpqy.vqtujo.wqnyq.manwfr.s

Ko.qypjkqtwqkopkqv.qopbqpiwnhfk.hzqtujneapktih.qbtwanwtktnuwqpubqopitkw
nyqkonflokqpubqpjktnu,qpubqnfrqbpul.rqpubqtwnhpktnuqnuhzqpjj.ukfpk.b
ko.qtujneapktithtkzsqPkqOphhtynrbqTqopbqphr.pbzqjne.qknqopk.qko.
jfrpk.’wqkrtj qnyqo.hah.wwq.mjhpepktnu,qotwqwkfatbqrtltbtkzqnyqetubs
Otwq.ubh.wwqefkk.rtulqenunhnlf.qctktpk.bq.c.rzq.yynrkqTqepb.qknqkotu 
nfkqpqhtu.qnyqpjktnu,qpubqbrnc.qe.qpkqkte.w,qkofwqa.ukqfaqpub
tuk.uwtyt.b,qphenwkqknqko.qc.rl.qnyqjrpdtu.wwsqO.qvpwqpwqhpj tulqtu
r.wkrptukqpwqpqwthhzqvnepusqO.qvnfhbqv..aqynrqonfrwqknl.ko.r,qpubqT
c.rthzqi.ht.c.qkopkqknqko.qc.rzq.ubqkotwqwanth.bqjothbqnyqhty.qkonflok
otwqv.p qk.prwqtuqwne.qvpzq.yytjpjtnfwsqPubqTqvnfhbqwtkqtuqko.qbpr u.ww
fupih.qknq ..aqezqetubqnyyqoteqizqr.pwnuqnyqotwqteanrkfutkt.wsqO.qpk.
enr.qkopuqTqbtb,qpubqtkqvpwqtuqcptuqTqantuk.bqnfkqkopkqnfrqnuhzqjopuj.
nyqhty.qvpwqknqwknaqtuqko.qonfw.qfukthqko.qEprktpuwqopbqbnu.qvtkoqko.tr
atk,qkopkqtuqkopkqhnulqapkt.uj.qpqkte.qetlokqar.w.ukhzqjne.qvo.uqv.
wonfhbqu..bqynnbsqO.qpk.qpubqbrpu qteafhwtc.hzqtuqo.pczqe.phwqpkqhnul
tuk.rcphwsqO.qwh.akqhtkkh.s

Pwqko.qbpzwqvnr.qnu,qotwqfkk.rqjpr.h.wwu.wwqnyqpuzqjnuwtb.rpktnuqwn
tuk.uwtyt.bqnfrqbtwkr.wwqpubqbpul.rqkopkqTqopb,qefjoqpwqTqhnpko.bqbntul
tk,qknqr.wnrkqknqkor.pkw,qpubqpkqhpwkqknqihnvwsqKopkqirnflokqoteqkn
r.pwnuqynrqpqkte.sqIfkqo.qvpwqnu.qnyqkonw.qv.p qjr.pkfr.w,qcntbqny
artb.,qktenrnfw,qpuæetj,qopk.yfhqwnfhw,qyfhhqnyqwotykzqjfuutul,qvon
ypj.qu.tko.rqLnbqunrqepu,qvonqypj.qunkq.c.uqko.ew.hc.ws

Tkqtwqbtwplr..pih.qynrqe.qknqr.jphhqpubqvrtk.qko.w.qkotulw,qifkqTqw.k
ko.eqbnvuqkopkqezqwknrzqepzqhpj qunkotulsqKonw.qvonqopc.q.wjpa.bqko.
bpr qpubqk.rrtih.qpwa.jkwqnyqhty.qvthhqytubqezqirfkphtkz,qezqyhpwoqny
rpl.qtuqnfrqytuphqkrpl.bz,q.pwzq.unfloqknqihpe.;qynrqko.zq unvqvopkqtw
vrnulqpwqv.hhqpwqpuz,qifkqunkqvopkqtwqanwwtih.qknqknrkfr.bqe.usqIfk
konw.qvonqopc.qi..uqfub.rqko.qwopbnv,qvonqopc.qlnu.qbnvuqpkqhpwkqkn
.h.e.ukphqkotulw,qvthhqopc.qpqvtb.rqjoprtkzs

Pubqvoth.qvtkotuqv.qynflokqnfkqnfrqbpr ,qbteqjnuk.wkqnyqvotwa.rw,
wupkjo.bqynnbqpubqbrtu ,qpubqlrtaatulqopubwqpubqihnvw,qvtkonfk,qtuqko.
atkth.wwqwfuhtlokqnyqkopkqk.rrtih.qGfu.,qvpwqko.qwkrpul.qvnub.r,qko.
fuypethtprqrnfktu.qnyqko.qEprktpuwqtuqko.qatksqH.kqe.qr.kfruqknqkonw.
ytrwkqu.vq.ma.rt.uj.wqnyqetu.sqPyk.rqpqhnulqkte.qTqc.ukfr.bqipj qknqko.
a..aonh.,qknqytubqkopkqko.qu.v-jne.rwqopbqi..uqr.tuynrj.bqizqko.
njjfapukwqnyqunqy.v.rqkopuqkor..qnyqko.qytloktul-epjotu.wsqKo.w.qhpwk
opbqirnflokqvtkoqko.eqj.rkptuqyr.woqpaahtpuj.wqkopkqwknnbqtuqpuqnrb.rhz
epuu.rqpinfkqko.qjzhtub.rsqKo.qw.jnubqopubhtul-epjotu.qvpwqunv
jneah.k.b,qpubqvpwqifwt.bqtuqw.rctulqnu.qnyqko.qunc.hqjnukrtcpuj.wqko.
itlqepjotu.qopbqirnfloksqKotwqvpwqpqinbzqr.w.eihtulqpqeth qjpuqtuqtkw
l.u.rphqynre,qpinc.qvotjoqnwjthhpk.bqpqa.pr-wopa.bqr.j.akpjh.,qpubqyrne
votjoqpqwkr.peqnyqvotk.qanvb.rqyhnv.bqtuknqpqjtrjfhprqipwtuqi.hnvs

Ko.qnwjthhpknrzqenktnuqvpwqteaprk.bqknqkotwqizqnu.qk.ukpjh.qnyqko.
opubhtul-epjotu.sqVtkoqkvnqwapkfhpk.qopubwqko.qopubhtul-epjotu.qvpw
btlltulqnfkqpubqyhtultulqepww.wqnyqjhpzqtuknqko.qa.pr-wopa.bqr.j.akpjh.
pinc.,qvoth.qvtkoqpunko.rqpreqtkqa.rtnbtjphhzqna.u.bqpqbnnrqpubqr.enc.b
rfwkzqpubqihpj .u.bqjhtu .rwqyrneqko.qetbbh.qaprkqnyqko.qepjotu.s
Punko.rqwk..hzqk.ukpjh.qbtr.jk.bqko.qanvb.rqyrneqko.qipwtuqphnulqp
rtii.bqjopuu.hqknvprbwqwne.qr.j.tc.rqkopkqvpwqotbb.uqyrneqe.qizqko.
enfubqnyqihftwoqbfwksqYrneqkotwqfuw..uqr.j.tc.rqpqhtkkh.qkor.pbqny
lr..uqwen .qrnw.qc.rktjphhzqtuknqko.qxft.kqptrsqPwqTqhnn .b,qko.
opubhtul-epjotu.,qvtkoqpqyptukqpubqefwtjphqjhtu tul,q.mk.ub.b,
k.h.wjnatjqypwotnu,qpqk.ukpjh.qkopkqopbqi..uqpqene.ukqi.ynr.qpqe.r.
ihfukqarng.jktnu,qfukthqtkwq.ubqvpwqotbb.uqi.otubqko.qenfubqnyqjhpzsqTu
punko.rqw.jnubqtkqopbqhtyk.bqpqiprqnyqvotk.qphfetutfeqtuknqwtlok,
fukprutwo.bqpwqz.k,qpubqwotutulqbpddhtulhz,qpubqb.anwtk.bqtkqtuqp
lrnvtulqwkpj qnyqiprwqkopkqwknnbqpkqko.qwtb.qnyqko.qatksqI.kv..uqwfuw.k
pubqwkprhtlokqkotwqb.mk.rnfwqepjotu.qefwkqopc.qepb.qenr.qkopuqpqofubr.b
wfjoqiprwqnfkqnyqko.qjrfb.qjhpz,qpubqko.qenfubqnyqihftwoqbfwkqrnw.
wk.pbthzqfukthqtkqknaa.bqko.qwtb.qnyqko.qatks

Ko.qjnukrpwkqi.kv..uqko.qwvtykqpubqjneah.mqenc.e.ukwqnyqko.w.
jnukrtcpuj.wqpubqko.qtu.rkqapuktulqjhfewtu.wwqnyqko.trqepwk.rwqvpw
pjfk.,qpubqynrqbpzwqTqopbqknqk.hhqezw.hyqr.a.pk.bhzqkopkqko.w.qhpkk.r
v.r.qtub..bqko.qhtctulqnyqko.qkvnqkotulws

Ko.qjfrpk.qopbqanww.wwtnuqnyqko.qwhtkqvo.uqko.qytrwkqe.uqv.r.qirnflok
knqko.qatksqTqvpwqwtkktulqi.hnv,qofbbh.bqfa,qhtwk.utulqvtkoqphhqez
.prwsqO.qepb.qpqwfbb.uqenc.e.ukqipj vprb,qpubqT,qy.pryfhqkopkqv.qv.r.
niw.rc.b,qjrnfjo.bqtuqpqwapweqnyqk.rrnrsqO.qjpe.qwhtbtulqbnvuqko.
rfiitwoqpubqjr.akqi.wtb.qe.qtuqko.qbpr u.ww,qtuprktjfhpk.,
l.wktjfhpktul,qpubqynrqpqene.ukqTqwopr.bqotwqaputjsqOtwql.wkfr.
wfll.wk.bqpqr.wtlupktnuqnyqko.qwhtk,qpubqpyk.rqpqhtkkh.qvoth.qez
jfrtnwtkzqlpc.qe.qjnfrpl.,qpubqTqrnw.qfa,qwk.aa.bqpjrnwwqote,qpub
jhpei.r.bqfaqknqtksqPkqytrwkqTqjnfhbqw..qunqr.pwnuqynrqotwqyrpuktj
i.opctnfrsqKo.qkvthtlokqopbqunvqjne.,qko.qwkprwqv.r.qhtkkh.qpubqyptuk,
ifkqko.qatkqvpwqthhfetupk.bqizqko.qyhtj .rtulqlr..uqytr.qkopkqjpe.qyrne
ko.qphfetutfe-ep tulsqKo.qvonh.qatjkfr.qvpwqpqyhtj .rtulqwjo.e.qny
lr..uqlh.pewqpubqwotyktulqrfwkzqihpj qwopbnvw,qwkrpul.hzqkrztulqknqko.
.z.wsqNc.rqpubqkornfloqtkqphhqv.ukqko.qipkw,qo..btulqtkqunkqpkqphhsqKo.
warpvhtulqEprktpuwqv.r.qunqhnul.rqknqi.qw..u,qko.qenfubqnyqihf.-lr..u
anvb.rqopbqrtw.uqknqjnc.rqko.eqyrneqwtlok,qpubqpqytloktul-epjotu.,qvtko
tkwqh.lwqjnukrpjk.b,qjrfeah.b,qpubqpiir.ctpk.b,qwknnbqpjrnwwqko.qjnru.r
nyqko.qatksqPubqko.u,qpetbqko.qjhpulnfrqnyqko.qepjotu.rz,qjpe.qp
brtyktulqwfwatjtnuqnyqofepuqcntj.w,qkopkqTq.uk.rkptu.bqpkqytrwkqnuhzqkn
btwetwws

Tqjrnfjo.b,qvpkjotulqkotwqytloktul-epjotu.qjhnw.hz,qwpktwyztulqezw.hy
unvqynrqko.qytrwkqkte.qkopkqko.qonnbqbtbqtub..bqjnukptuqpqEprktpusqPw
ko.qlr..uqyhpe.wqhtyk.bqTqjnfhbqw..qko.qnthzqlh.peqnyqotwqtuk.lfe.uk
pubqko.qirtloku.wwqnyqotwq.z.wsqPubqwfbb.uhzqTqo.prbqpqz.hh,qpubqwpvqp
hnulqk.ukpjh.qr.pjotulqnc.rqko.qwonfhb.rqnyqko.qepjotu.qknqko.qhtkkh.
jpl.qkopkqofujo.bqfanuqtkwqipj sqKo.uqwne.kotul—wne.kotulqwkrfllhtul
ctnh.ukhz—vpwqhtyk.bqotloqplptuwkqko.qw z,qpqihpj ,qcplf.q.utlep
plptuwkqko.qwkprhtlok;qpubqpwqkotwqihpj qnig.jkqjpe.qbnvuqplptu,qTqwpv
izqko.qlr..uqirtloku.wwqkopkqtkqvpwqpqepusqYnrqpuqtuwkpukqo.qvpw
jh.prhzqctwtih.sqO.qvpwqpqwknfk,qrfbbz,qetbbh.-pl.bqepu,qv.hhqbr.ww.b;
kor..qbpzwqi.ynr.,qo.qefwkqopc.qi..uqvph tulqko.qvnrhb,qpqepuqny
jnuwtb.rpih.qjnuw.xf.uj.sqTqjnfhbqw..qotwqwkprtulq.z.wqpubqlh.pewqny
htlokqnuqotwqwkfbwqpubqvpkjoqjoptusqO.qcputwo.bqi.otubqko.qenfub,qpub
ynrqpqene.ukqko.r.qvpwqwth.uj.sqPubqko.uqi.lpuqpqwort. tulqpubqp
wfwkptu.bqpubqjo..ryfhqonnktulqyrneqko.qEprktpuws

Tqwhtbqbnvuqko.qrfiitwo,qwkrfllh.bqknqezqy..k,qjhpaa.bqezqopubwqnc.rqez
.prw,qpubqinhk.bqtuknqko.qwjfhh.rzsqKo.qjfrpk.,qvonqopbqi..uqjrnfjotul
wth.ukhzqvtkoqotwqprewqnc.rqotwqo.pb,qhnn .bqfaqpwqTqapww.b,qjrt.bqnfk
xftk.qhnfbhzqpkqezqb.w.rktnuqnyqote,qpubqjpe.qrfuutulqpyk.rqe.s

Kopkqutlok,qpwqv.qhfr .bqtuqko.qwjfhh.rz,qiphpuj.bqi.kv..uqnfrqonrrnr
pubqko.qk.rrtih.qypwjtupktnuqkotwqa..atulqopb,qphkonfloqTqy.hkqpu
frl.ukqu..bqnyqpjktnuqTqkrt.bqtuqcptuqknqjnuj.tc.qwne.qahpuqnyq.wjpa.;
ifkqpyk.rvprbw,qbfrtulqko.qw.jnubqbpz,qTqvpwqpih.qknqjnuwtb.rqnfr
anwtktnuqvtkoqlr.pkqjh.pru.wwsqKo.qjfrpk.,qTqynfub,qvpwqxftk.qtujpapih.
nyqbtwjfwwtnu;qkotwqu.vqpubqjfhetupktulqpkrnjtkzqopbqrnii.bqoteqnyqphh
c.wktl.wqnyqr.pwnuqnrqynr.konfloksqArpjktjphhzqo.qopbqphr.pbzqwfu qkn
ko.qh.c.hqnyqpuqputephsqIfkqpwqko.qwpztulqln.w,qTqlrtaa.bqezw.hyqvtko
inkoqopubwsqTkqlr.vqfanuqezqetub,qnuj.qTqjnfhbqypj.qko.qypjkw,qkopk
k.rrtih.qpwqnfrqanwtktnuqvpw,qko.r.qvpwqpwqz.kqunqgfwktytjpktnuqynr
piwnhfk.qb.waptrsqNfrqjot.yqjopuj.qhpzqtuqko.qanwwtithtkzqnyqko.
Eprktpuwqep tulqko.qatkqunkotulqenr.qkopuqpqk.eanrprzq.ujpeae.uksqNr
.c.uqtyqko.zq .akqtkqa.repu.ukhz,qko.zqetlokqunkqjnuwtb.rqtkqu.j.wwprz
knqlfprbqtk,qpubqpqjopuj.qnyq.wjpa.qetlokqi.qpyynrb.bqfwsqTqphwn
v.tlo.bqc.rzqjpr.yfhhzqko.qanwwtithtkzqnyqnfrqbtlltulqpqvpzqnfkqtuqp
btr.jktnuqpvpzqyrneqko.qatk,qifkqko.qjopuj.wqnyqnfrq.e.rltulqvtkotu
wtlokqnyqwne.qw.uktu.hqytloktul-epjotu.qw..e.bqpkqytrwkqknnqlr.pksqPub
Tqwonfhbqopc.qopbqknqbnqphhqko.qbtlltulqezw.hysqKo.qjfrpk.qvnfhb
j.rkptuhzqopc.qypth.bqe.s

Tkqvpwqnuqko.qkotrbqbpz,qtyqezqe.enrzqw.rc.wqe.qrtlok,qkopkqTqwpvqko.
hpbq thh.bsqTkqvpwqko.qnuhzqnjjpwtnuqnuqvotjoqTqpjkfphhzqwpvqko.
Eprktpuwqy..bsqPyk.rqkopkq.ma.rt.uj.qTqpcntb.bqko.qonh.qtuqko.qvphhqynr
ko.qi.kk.rqaprkqnyqpqbpzsqTqv.ukqtuknqko.qwjfhh.rz,qr.enc.bqko.qbnnr,
pubqwa.ukqwne.qonfrwqbtlltulqvtkoqezqopkjo.kqpwqwth.ukhzqpwqanwwtih.;
ifkqvo.uqTqopbqepb.qpqonh.qpinfkqpqjnfah.qnyqy..kqb..aqko.qhnnw.q.prko
jnhhpaw.bquntwthz,qpubqTqbtbqunkqbpr.qjnuktuf.sqTqhnwkqo.prk,qpubqhpz
bnvuqnuqko.qwjfhh.rzqyhnnrqynrqpqhnulqkte.,qopctulqunqwatrtkq.c.uqkn
enc.sqPubqpyk.rqkopkqTqpipubnu.bqphknl.ko.rqko.qtb.pqnyq.wjpatulqiz
.mjpcpktnus

Tkqwpzwqefjoqynrqko.qtear.wwtnuqko.qEprktpuwqopbqepb.qfanuqe.qkopkqpk
ytrwkqTq.uk.rkptu.bqhtkkh.qnrqunqona.qnyqnfrq.wjpa.qi.tulqirnflokqpinfk
izqko.trqnc.rkornvqkornfloqpuzqofepuq.yynrksqIfkqnuqko.qynfrkoqnrqytyko
utlokqTqo.prbqpqwnfubqht .qo.pczqlfuws

Tkqvpwqc.rzqhpk.qtuqko.qutlok,qpubqko.qennuqvpwqwotutulqirtlokhzsqKo.
Eprktpuwqopbqkp .uqpvpzqko.q.mjpcpktul-epjotu.,qpub,qwpc.qynrqp
ytloktul-epjotu.qkopkqwknnbqtuqko.qr.enk.rqipu qnyqko.qatkqpubqp
opubhtul-epjotu.qkopkqvpwqifrt.bqnfkqnyqezqwtlokqtuqpqjnru.rqnyqko.qatk
tee.btpk.hzqi.u.pkoqezqa..aonh.,qko.qahpj.qvpwqb.w.rk.bqizqko.esq.mj.ak
ynrqko.qaph.qlhnvqyrneqko.qopubhtul-epjotu.qpubqko.qiprwqpubqapkjo.wqny
votk.qennuhtlokqko.qatkqvpwqtuqbpr u.ww,qpub,q.mj.akqynrqko.qjhtu tul
nyqko.qopubhtul-epjotu.,qxftk.qwkthhsqKopkqutlokqvpwqpqi.pfktyfh
w.r.utkz;qwpc.qynrqnu.qahpu.k,qko.qennuqw..e.bqknqopc.qko.qw zqkn
o.rw.hysqTqo.prbqpqbnlqonvhtul,qpubqkopkqypethtprqwnfubqtkqvpwqkopk
epb.qe.qhtwk.usqKo.uqTqo.prbqxftk.qbtwktujkhzqpqinnetulq.mpjkhzqht .
ko.qwnfubqnyqlr.pkqlfuwsqWtmqbtwktujkqr.anrkwqTqjnfuk.b,qpubqpyk.rqp
hnulqtuk.rcphqwtmqplptusqPubqkopkqvpwqphhs


CTs

KO.qB.PKOqNYqKO.qJFRPK.s

Tkqvpwqnuqko.qwtmkoqbpzqnyqnfrqteartwnue.ukqkopkqTqa..a.bqynrqko.qhpwk
kte.,qpubqar.w.ukhzqynfubqezw.hyqphnu.sqTuwk.pbqnyq ..atulqjhnw.qknqe.
pubqkrztulqknqnfwkqe.qyrneqko.qwhtk,qko.qjfrpk.qopbqlnu.qipj qtuknqko.
wjfhh.rzsqTqvpwqwkrfj qizqpqwfbb.uqkonfloksqTqv.ukqipj qxftj hzqpub
xft.khzqtuknqko.qwjfhh.rzsqTuqko.qbpr u.wwqTqo.prbqko.qjfrpk.qbrtu tuls
Tqwupkjo.bqtuqko.qbpr u.ww,qpubqezqytul.rwqjpflokqpqinkkh.qnyqifrlfubzs

Ynrqpqy.vqetufk.wqko.r.qvpwqpqkfwwh.sqKo.qinkkh.qwkrfj qko.qyhnnrqpub
irn .,qpubqTqb.wtwk.bqpubqrnw.sqV.qwknnbqapuktulqpubqkor.pk.utulq.pjo
nko.rsqTuqko.q.ubqTqahpuk.bqezw.hyqi.kv..uqoteqpubqko.qynnb,qpubqknhb
oteqnyqezqb.k.retupktnuqknqi.ltuqpqbtwjtahtu.sqTqbtctb.bqko.qynnbqtu
ko.qapukrz,qtuknqrpktnuwqknqhpwkqfwqk.uqbpzwsqTqvnfhbqunkqh.kqoteq.pk
puzqenr.qkopkqbpzsqTuqko.qpyk.runnuqo.qepb.qpqy..ih.q.yynrkqknql.kqpk
ko.qynnbsqTqopbqi..uqbndtul,qifkqtuqpuqtuwkpukqTqvpwqpvp .sqPhhqbpzqpub
phhqutlokqv.qwpkqypj.qknqypj.,qTqv.przqifkqr.wnhfk.,qpubqo.qv..atulqpub
jneahptutulqnyqotwqtee.btpk.qoful.rsqTkqvpw,qTq unv,qpqutlokqpubqpqbpz,
ifkqknqe.qtkqw..e.b—tkqw..ewqunv—puqtuk.retupih.qh.ulkoqnyqkte.s

Pubqwnqnfrqvtb.u.bqtujneapktithtkzq.ub.bqpkqhpwkqtuqna.uqjnuyhtjksqYnr
kvnqcpwkqbpzwqv.qwkrfllh.bqtuqfub.rknu.wqpubqvr.wkhtulqjnuk.wkwsqKo.r.
v.r.qkte.wqvo.uqTqi.pkqpubq tj .bqoteqepbhz,qkte.wqvo.uqTqjpgnh.bqpub
a.rwfpb.bqote,qpubqnuj.qTqkrt.bqknqirti.qoteqvtkoqko.qhpwkqinkkh.qny
ifrlfubz,qynrqko.r.qvpwqpqrptu-vpk.rqafeaqyrneqvotjoqTqjnfhbql.kqvpk.rs
Ifkqu.tko.rqynrj.qunrq tubu.wwqpcpth.b;qo.qvpwqtub..bqi.znubqr.pwnusqO.
vnfhbqu.tko.rqb.wtwkqyrneqotwqpkkpj wqnuqko.qynnbqunrqyrneqotwquntwz
ipiihtulqknqotew.hysqKo.qrfbte.ukprzqar.jpfktnuwqknq ..aqnfr
teartwnue.ukq.ubfrpih.qo.qvnfhbqunkqniw.rc.sqWhnvhzqTqi.lpuqknqr.phtw.
ko.qjneah.k.qnc.rkornvqnyqotwqtuk.hhtl.uj.,qknqa.rj.tc.qkopkqezqwnh.
jneaputnuqtuqkotwqjhnw.qpubqwtj hzqbpr u.wwqvpwqpqepuqtuwpu.s

Yrneqj.rkptuqcplf.qe.enrt.wqTqpeqtujhtu.bqknqkotu qezqnvuqetubqvpub.r.b
pkqkte.wsqTqopbqwkrpul.qpubqotb.nfwqbr.pewqvo.u.c.rqTqwh.aksqTkqwnfubw
aprpbnmtjph,qifkqTqpeqtujhtu.bqknqkotu qkopkqko.qv.p u.wwqpubqtuwputkz
nyqko.qjfrpk.qvpru.bqe.,qirpj.bqe.,qpubq .akqe.qpqwpu.qepus

Nuqko.q.tlokoqbpzqo.qi.lpuqknqkph qphnfbqtuwk.pbqnyqvotwa.rtul,qpub
unkotulqTqjnfhbqbnqvnfhbqenb.rpk.qotwqwa..jos

“Tkqtwqgfwk,qNqLnb!”qo.qvnfhbqwpz,qnc.rqpubqnc.rqplptusq“TkqtwqgfwksqNu
e.qpubqetu.qi.qko.qafutwoe.ukqhptbsqV.qopc.qwtuu.b,qv.qopc.qyphh.u
wonrksqKo.r.qvpwqanc.rkz,qwnrrnv;qko.qannrqv.r.qkrnbb.uqtuqko.qbfwk,
pubqTqo.hbqezqa.pj.sqTqar.pjo.bqpjj.akpih.qynhhz—ezqLnb,qvopk
ynhhz!—vo.uqTqwonfhbqopc.qwknnbqfa,qkonfloqTqbt.bqynrqtk,qpubqjphh.b
fanuqko.eqknqr.a.uk—r.a.uk!qsqsqsqNaar.wwnrwqnyqko.qannrqpubqu..bzqsqs
sq!qKo.qvtu.qar.wwqnyqLnb!”

Ko.uqo.qvnfhbqwfbb.uhzqr.c.rkqknqko.qepkk.rqnyqko.qynnbqTqvtkoo.hbqyrne
ote,qarpztul,qi.lltul,qv..atul,qpkqhpwkqkor.pk.utulsqO.qi.lpuqknqrptw.
otwqcntj.—Tqarpz.bqotequnkqknsqO.qa.rj.tc.bqpqonhbqnuqe.—o.qkor.pk.u.b
o.qvnfhbqwonfkqpubqirtulqko.qEprktpuwqfanuqfwsqYnrqpqkte.qkopkqwjpr.b
e.;qifkqpuzqjnuj.wwtnuqvnfhbqopc.qwonrk.u.bqnfrqjopuj.qnyq.wjpa.qi.znub
.wktepktulsqTqb.yt.bqote,qphkonfloqTqy.hkqunqpwwfrpuj.qkopkqo.qetlok
unkqbnqkotwqkotulsqIfkqkopkqbpz,qpkqpuzqrpk.,qo.qbtbqunksqO.qkph .b
vtkoqotwqcntj.qrtwtulqwhnvhz,qkornfloqko.qlr.pk.rqaprkqnyqko.q.tloko
pubqutukoqbpzw—kor.pkw,q.ukr.pkt.w,qetulh.bqvtkoqpqknrr.ukqnyqophy-wpu.
pubqphvpzwqyrnkozqr.a.ukpuj.qynrqotwqcpjpukqwopeqnyqLnb’wqw.rctj.,qwfjo
pwqepb.qe.qatkzqotesqKo.uqo.qwh.akqpvoth.,qpubqi.lpuqplptuqvtkoqr.u.v.b
wkr.ulko,qwnqhnfbhzqkopkqTqefwkqu..bwqep .qoteqb.wtwks

“I.qwkthh!”qTqteahnr.bs

O.qrnw.qknqotwq u..w,qynrqo.qopbqi..uqwtkktulqtuqko.qbpr u.wwqu.prqko.
jnaa.rs

“Tqopc.qi..uqwkthhqknnqhnul,”qo.qwptb,qtuqpqknu.qkopkqefwkqopc.qr.pjo.b
ko.qatk,q“pubqunvqTqefwkqi.prqezqvtku.wwsqVn.qfuknqkotwqfuyptkoyfh
jtkz!qVn.!qVn.!qVn.!qVn.!qVn.!qKnqko.qtuopitkpukwqnyqko.q.prkoqiz
r.pwnuqnyqko.qnko.rqcntj.wqnyqko.qkrfea.k——”

“Wofkqfa!”qTqwptb,qrtwtulqknqezqy..k,qpubqtuqpqk.rrnrqh.wkqko.qEprktpuw
wonfhbqo.prqfwsq“YnrqLnb’wqwp .——”

“Upz,”qwonfk.bqko.qjfrpk.,qpkqko.qknaqnyqotwqcntj.,qwkpubtulqht .vtw.
pubq.mk.ubtulqotwqprewsq“Wa.p !qKo.qvnrbqnyqko.qHnrbqtwqfanuqe.!”

Tuqkor..qwkrtb.wqo.qvpwqpkqko.qbnnrqh.pbtulqtuknqko.q tkjo.us

“Tqefwkqi.prqezqvtku.ww!qTqln!qTkqopwqphr.pbzqi..uqknnqhnulqb.hpz.bs”

Tqafkqnfkqezqopubqpubqy.hkqko.qe.pkqjonaa.rqopultulqknqko.qvphhsqTuqp
yhpwoqTqvpwqpyk.rqotesqTqvpwqyt.rj.qvtkoqy.prsqI.ynr.qo.qvpwqophyvpz
pjrnwwqko.q tkjo.uqTqopbqnc.rkp .uqotesqVtkoqnu.qhpwkqknfjoqnyqofeputkz
Tqkfru.bqko.qihpb.qipj qpubqwkrfj qoteqvtkoqko.qifkksqO.qv.ukqo.pbhnul
ynrvprbqpubqhpzqwkr.kjo.bqnuqko.qlrnfubsqTqwkfeih.bqnc.rqoteqpubqwknnb
apuktulsqO.qhpzqwkthhs

Wfbb.uhzqTqo.prbqpquntw.qvtkonfk,qko.qrfuqpubqwepwoqnyqwhtaatul
ahpwk.r,qpubqko.qkrtpulfhprqpa.rkfr.qtuqko.qvphhqvpwqbpr .u.bsqTqhnn .b
faqpubqwpvqko.qhnv.rqwfrypj.qnyqpqopubhtul-epjotu.qjnetulqwhnvhzqpjrnww
ko.qonh.sqNu.qnyqtkwqlrtaatulqhteiwqjfrh.bqpetbqko.qb.irtw;qpunko.r
hteiqpaa.pr.b,qy..htulqtkwqvpzqnc.rqko.qyphh.uqi.pewsqTqwknnb
a.krtyt.b,qwkprtulsqKo.uqTqwpvqkornfloqpqwnrkqnyqlhpwwqahpk.qu.prqko.
.bl.qnyqko.qinbzqko.qypj.,qpwqv.qepzqjphhqtk,qpubqko.qhprl.qbpr q.z.w
nyqpqEprktpu,qa..rtul,qpubqko.uqpqhnulqe.kphhtjqwup .qnyqk.ukpjh.qjpe.
y..htulqwhnvhzqkornfloqko.qonh.s

Tqkfru.bqizqpuq.yynrk,qwkfeih.bqnc.rqko.qjfrpk.,qpubqwknaa.bqpkqko.
wjfhh.rzqbnnrsqKo.qk.ukpjh.qvpwqunvqwne.qvpz,qkvnqzprbwqnrqenr.,qtuqko.
rnne,qpubqkvtwktulqpubqkfrutul,qvtkoqxf..rqwfbb.uqenc.e.ukw,qkotwqvpz
pubqkopksqYnrqpqvoth.qTqwknnbqypwjtupk.bqizqkopkqwhnv,qytkyfhqpbcpuj.s
Ko.u,qvtkoqpqyptuk,qonprw.qjrz,qTqynrj.bqezw.hyqpjrnwwqko.qwjfhh.rzsqT
kr.eih.bqctnh.ukhz;qTqjnfhbqwjprj.hzqwkpubqfartloksqTqna.u.bqko.qbnnr
nyqko.qjnphqj.hhpr,qpubqwknnbqko.r.qtuqko.qbpr u.wwqwkprtulqpkqko.
yptukhzqhtkqbnnrvpzqtuknqko.q tkjo.u,qpubqhtwk.utulsqOpbqko.qEprktpu
w..uqe.?qVopkqvpwqtkqbntulqunv?

Wne.kotulqvpwqenctulqknqpubqyrnqko.r.,qc.rzqxft.khz;q.c.rzqunvqpubqko.u
tkqkpaa.bqplptuwkqko.qvphh,qnrqwkprk.bqnuqtkwqenc.e.ukwqvtkoqpqyptuk
e.kphhtjqrtultul,qht .qko.qenc.e.ukwqnyq .zwqnuqpqwahtk-rtulsqKo.uqp
o.pczqinbz—Tq u.vqknnqv.hhqvopk—vpwqbrpll.bqpjrnwwqko.qyhnnrqnyqko.
 tkjo.uqknvprbwqko.qna.utulsqTrr.wtwktihzqpkkrpjk.b,qTqjr.akqknqko.
bnnrqpubqa..a.bqtuknqko.q tkjo.usqTuqko.qkrtpulh.qnyqirtlokqnfk.r
wfuhtlokqTqwpvqko.qEprktpu,qtuqtkwqIrtpr.fwqnyqpqopubhtul-epjotu.,
wjrfktutdtulqko.qjfrpk.’wqo.pbsqTqkonflokqpkqnuj.qkopkqtkqvnfhbqtuy.r
ezqar.w.uj.qyrneqko.qepr qnyqko.qihnvqTqopbqltc.uqotes

Tqjr.akqipj qknqko.qjnphqj.hhpr,qwofkqko.qbnnr,qpubqi.lpuqknqjnc.r
ezw.hyqfaqpwqefjoqpwqTqjnfhb,qpubqpwquntw.h.wwhzqpwqanwwtih.qtuqko.
bpr u.ww,qpenulqko.qytr.vnnbqpubqjnphqko.r.tusq.c.rzqunvqpubqko.uqT
apfw.b,qrtltb,qknqo.prqtyqko.qEprktpuqopbqkorfwkqtkwqk.ukpjh.wqkornflo
ko.qna.utulqplptus

Ko.uqko.qyptukqe.kphhtjqgtulh.qr.kfru.bsqTqkrpj.bqtkqwhnvhzqy..htul
nc.rqko.q tkjo.usqAr.w.ukhzqTqo.prbqtkqu.pr.r—tuqko.qwjfhh.rz,qpwqT
gfbl.bsqTqkonflokqkopkqtkwqh.ulkoqetlokqi.qtuwfyytjt.ukqknqr.pjoqe.sqT
arpz.bqjnatnfwhzsqTkqapww.b,qwjrpatulqyptukhzqpjrnwwqko.qj.hhprqbnnrs
Puqpl.qnyqphenwkqtuknh.rpih.qwfwa.uw.qtuk.rc.u.b;qko.uqTqo.prbqtk
yfeihtulqpkqko.qhpkjo!qTkqopbqynfubqko.qbnnr!qKo.qEprktpuwqfub.rwknnb
bnnrw!

Tkqvnrrt.bqpkqko.qjpkjoqynrqpqetufk.,qa.ropaw,qpubqko.uqko.qbnnr
na.u.bs

Tuqko.qbpr u.wwqTqjnfhbqgfwkqw..qko.qkotul—ht .qpuq.h.aopuk’wqkrfu 
enr.qkopuqpuzkotulq.hw.—vpctulqknvprbwqe.qpubqknfjotulqpubq.mpetutul
ko.qvphh,qjnphw,qvnnbqpubqj.thtulsqTkqvpwqht .qpqihpj qvnreqwvpztulqtkw
ihtubqo.pbqknqpubqyrns

Nuj.,q.c.u,qtkqknfjo.bqko.qo..hqnyqezqinnksqTqvpwqnuqko.qc.rl.qny
wjr.petul;qTqitkqezqopubsqYnrqpqkte.qko.qk.ukpjh.qvpwqwth.uksqTqjnfhb
opc.qypujt.bqtkqopbqi..uqvtkobrpvusqAr.w.ukhz,qvtkoqpuqpirfakqjhtj ,qtk
lrtaa.bqwne.kotul—Tqkonflokqtkqopbqe.!—pubqw..e.bqknqlnqnfkqnyqko.
j.hhprqplptusqYnrqpqetufk.qTqvpwqunkqwfr.sqPaapr.ukhzqtkqopbqkp .uqp
hfeaqnyqjnphqknq.mpetu.s

Tqw.td.bqko.qnaanrkfutkzqnyqwhtlokhzqwotyktulqezqanwtktnu,qvotjoqopb
i.jne.qjrpea.b,qpubqko.uqhtwk.u.bsqTqvotwa.r.bqapwwtnupk.qarpz.rwqynr
wpy.kzs

Ko.uqTqo.prbqko.qwhnv,qb.hti.rpk.qwnfubqjr..atulqknvprbwqe.qplptus
Whnvhz,qwhnvhzqtkqbr.vqu.pr,qwjrpkjotulqplptuwkqko.qvphhwqpubqkpaatul
ko.qyfrutkfr.s

Voth.qTqvpwqwkthhqbnfikyfh,qtkqrpaa.bqweprkhzqplptuwkqko.qj.hhprqbnnr
pubqjhnw.bqtksqTqo.prbqtkqlnqtuknqko.qapukrz,qpubqko.qitwjftk-ktuw
rpkkh.bqpubqpqinkkh.qwepwo.b,qpubqko.uqjpe.qpqo.pczqifeaqplptuwkqko.
j.hhprqbnnrsqKo.uqwth.uj.qkopkqapww.bqtuknqpuqtuytutkzqnyqwfwa.uw.s

Opbqtkqlnu.?

PkqhpwkqTqb.jtb.bqkopkqtkqopbs

Tkqjpe.qtuknqko.qwjfhh.rzqunqenr.;qifkqTqhpzqphhqko.qk.ukoqbpzqtuqko.
jhnw.qbpr u.ww,qifrt.bqpenulqjnphwqpubqytr.vnnb,qunkqbprtulq.c.uqkn
jrpvhqnfkqynrqko.qbrtu qynrqvotjoqTqjrpc.bsqTkqvpwqko.q.h.c.ukoqbpz
i.ynr.qTqc.ukfr.bqwnqyprqyrneqezqw.jfrtkzs


Cs

KO.qWKTHHU.WWs

Ezqytrwkqpjkqi.ynr.qTqv.ukqtuknqko.qapukrzqvpwqknqypwk.uqko.qbnnr
i.kv..uqko.q tkjo.uqpubqko.qwjfhh.rzsqIfkqko.qapukrzqvpwq.eakz;q.c.rz
wjrpaqnyqynnbqopbqlnu.sqPaapr.ukhz,qko.qEprktpuqopbqkp .uqtkqphhqnuqko.
ar.ctnfwqbpzsqPkqkopkqbtwjnc.rzqTqb.waptr.bqynrqko.qytrwkqkte.sqTqknn 
unqynnb,qnrqunqbrtu q.tko.r,qnuqko.q.h.c.ukoqnrqko.qkv.hykoqbpzs

Pkqytrwkqezqenfkoqpubqkornpkqv.r.qaprjo.b,qpubqezqwkr.ulkoq.ii.b
w.uwtihzsqTqwpkqpinfkqtuqko.qbpr u.wwqnyqko.qwjfhh.rz,qtuqpqwkpk.qny
b.wanub.ukqvr.kjo.bu.wwsqEzqetubqrpuqnuq.pktulsqTqkonflokqTqopbqi.jne.
b.py,qynrqko.quntw.wqnyqenc.e.ukqTqopbqi..uqpjjfwkne.bqknqo.prqyrneqko.
atkqopbqj.pw.bqpiwnhfk.hzsqTqbtbqunkqy..hqwkrnulq.unfloqknqjrpvh
untw.h.wwhzqknqko.qa..aonh.,qnrqTqvnfhbqopc.qlnu.qko.r.s

Nuqko.qkv.hykoqbpzqezqkornpkqvpwqwnqaptuyfhqkopk,qkp tulqko.qjopuj.qny
phpretulqko.qEprktpuw,qTqpkkpj .bqko.qjr.p tulqrptu-vpk.rqafeaqkopk
wknnbqizqko.qwtu ,qpubqlnkqpqjnfah.qnyqlhpwwyfhwqnyqihpj .u.bqpub
kptuk.bqrptuqvpk.rsqTqvpwqlr.pkhzqr.yr.wo.bqizqkotw,qpubq.einhb.u.bqiz
ko.qypjkqkopkqunq.uxftrtulqk.ukpjh.qynhhnv.bqko.quntw.qnyqezqafeatuls

Bfrtulqko.w.qbpzw,qtuqpqrpeihtul,qtujnujhfwtc.qvpz,qTqkonflokqefjoqny
ko.qjfrpk.qpubqnyqko.qepuu.rqnyqotwqb.pkos

Nuqko.qkotrk..ukoqbpzqTqbrpu qwne.qenr.qvpk.r,qpubqbnd.bqpubqkonflok
btwgntuk.bhzqnyq.pktulqpubqnyqcplf.qteanwwtih.qahpuwqnyq.wjpa.s
Vo.u.c.rqTqbnd.bqTqbr.pekqnyqonrrtih.qaopukpwew,qnyqko.qb.pkoqnyqko.
jfrpk.,qnrqnyqwfeakfnfwqbtuu.rw;qifk,qpwh..aqnrqpvp .,qTqy.hkqpq ..u
aptuqkopkqfrl.bqe.qknqbrtu qplptuqpubqplptusqKo.qhtlokqkopkqjpe.qtukn
ko.qwjfhh.rzqvpwqunqhnul.rqlr.z,qifkqr.bsqKnqezqbtwnrb.r.bqtepltupktnu
tkqw..e.bqko.qjnhnfrqnyqihnnbs

Nuqko.qynfrk..ukoqbpzqTqv.ukqtuknqko.q tkjo.u,qpubqTqvpwqwfrartw.bqkn
ytubqkopkqko.qyrnubwqnyqko.qr.bqv..bqopbqlrnvuqrtlokqpjrnwwqko.qonh.qtu
ko.qvphh,qkfrutulqko.qophy-htlokqnyqko.qahpj.qtuknqpqjrtewnu-jnhnfr.b
niwjfrtkzs

Tkqvpwq.prhzqnuqko.qytyk..ukoqbpzqkopkqTqo.prbqpqjfrtnfw,qypethtpr
w.xf.uj.qnyqwnfubwqtuqko.q tkjo.u,qpub,qhtwk.utul,qtb.uktyt.bqtkqpwqko.
wufyytulqpubqwjrpkjotulqnyqpqbnlsqLntulqtuknqko.q tkjo.u,qTqwpvqpqbnl’w
unw.qa..rtulqtuqkornfloqpqir.p qpenulqko.qrfbbzqyrnubwsqKotwqlr.pkhz
wfrartw.bqe.sqPkqko.qwj.ukqnyqe.qo.qipr .bqwonrkhzs

TqkonflokqtyqTqjnfhbqtubfj.qoteqknqjne.qtuknqko.qahpj.qxft.khzqTqwonfhb
i.qpih.,qa.ropaw,qknq thhqpubq.pkqote;qpubqtuqpuzqjpw.,qtkqvnfhbqi.
pbctwpih.qknq thhqote,qh.wkqotwqpjktnuwqpkkrpjk.bqko.qpkk.uktnuqnyqko.
Eprktpuws

Tqjr.akqynrvprb,qwpztulq“Lnnbqbnl!”qc.rzqwnykhz;qifkqo.qwfbb.uhz
vtkobr.vqotwqo.pbqpubqbtwpaa.pr.bs

Tqhtwk.u.b—Tqvpwqunkqb.py—ifkqj.rkptuhzqko.qatkqvpwqwkthhsqTqo.prbqp
wnfubqht .qko.qyhfkk.rqnyqpqitrb’wqvtulw,qpubqpqonprw.qjrnp tul,qifk
kopkqvpwqphhs

Ynrqpqhnulqvoth.qTqhpzqjhnw.qknqko.qa..aonh.,qifkqunkqbprtulqknqenc.
pwtb.qko.qr.bqahpukwqkopkqniwjfr.bqtksqNuj.qnrqkvtj.qTqo.prbqpqyptuk
atkk.r-apkk.rqht .qko.qy..kqnyqko.qbnlqlntulqotko.rqpubqkotko.rqnuqko.
wpubqyprqi.hnvqe.,qpubqko.r.qv.r.qenr.qitrbht .qwnfubw,qifkqkopkqvpw
phhsqPkqh.ulko,q.ujnfrpl.bqizqko.qwth.uj.,qTqhnn .bqnfks

.mj.akqtuqko.qjnru.r,qvo.r.qpqefhktkfb.qnyqjrnvwqonaa.bqpubqynflokqnc.r
ko.qw .h.knuwqnyqko.qb.pbqko.qEprktpuwqopbqjnuwfe.b,qko.r.qvpwqunkqp
htctulqkotulqtuqko.qatks

Tqwkpr.bqpinfkqe.,qwjprj.hzqi.ht.ctulqezq.z.wsqPhhqko.qepjotu.rzqopb
lnu.sqWpc.qynrqko.qitlqenfubqnyqlr.ztwo-ihf.qanvb.rqtuqnu.qjnru.r,
j.rkptuqiprwqnyqphfetutfeqtuqpunko.r,qko.qihpj qitrbw,qpubqko.
w .h.knuwqnyqko.q thh.b,qko.qahpj.qvpwqe.r.hzqpuq.eakzqjtrjfhprqatkqtu
ko.qwpubs

WhnvhzqTqkorfwkqezw.hyqnfkqkornfloqko.qr.bqv..b,qpubqwknnbqfanuqko.
enfubqnyqrfiih.sqTqjnfhbqw..qtuqpuzqbtr.jktnuqwpc.qi.otubqe.,qknqko.
unrko,qpubqu.tko.rqEprktpuwqunrqwtluqnyqEprktpuwqv.r.qknqi.qw..usqKo.
atkqbrnaa.bqwo..rhzqyrneqezqy..k,qifkqpqhtkkh.qvpzqphnulqko.qrfiitwo
pyynrb.bqpqarpjktjpih.qwhna.qknqko.qwfeetkqnyqko.qrftuwsqEzqjopuj.qny
.wjpa.qopbqjne.sqTqi.lpuqknqkr.eih.s

Tqo.wtkpk.bqynrqwne.qkte.,qpubqko.u,qtuqpqlfwkqnyqb.wa.rpk.qr.wnhfktnu,
pubqvtkoqpqo.prkqkopkqkornii.bqctnh.ukhz,qTqwjrpeih.bqknqko.qknaqnyqko.
enfubqtuqvotjoqTqopbqi..uqifrt.bqwnqhnuls

Tqhnn .bqpinfkqplptusqKnqko.qunrkovprb,qknn,qunqEprktpuqvpwqctwtih.s

Vo.uqTqopbqhpwkqw..uqkotwqaprkqnyqWo..uqtuqko.qbpzhtlokqtkqopbqi..uqp
wkrpllhtulqwkr..kqnyqjneynrkpih.qvotk.qpubqr.bqonfw.w,qtuk.rwa.rw.b
vtkoqpifubpukqwopbzqkr..wsqUnvqTqwknnbqnuqpqenfubqnyqwepwo.bqirtj vnr ,
jhpz,qpubqlrpc.h,qnc.rqvotjoqwar.pbqpqefhktkfb.qnyqr.bqjpjkfw-wopa.b
ahpukw,q u..-otlo,qvtkonfkqpqwnhtkprzqk.rr.wkrtphqlrnvkoqknqbtwafk.
ko.trqynnktulsqKo.qkr..wqu.prqe.qv.r.qb.pbqpubqirnvu,qifkqyfrko.rqp
u.kvnr qnyqr.bqkor.pbqwjph.bqko.qwkthhqhtctulqwk.ews

Ko.qu.tloinfrtulqonfw.wqopbqphhqi..uqvr.j .b,qifkqunu.qopbqi..uqifru.b;
ko.trqvphhwqwknnb,qwne.kte.wqknqko.qw.jnubqwknrz,qvtkoqwepwo.bqvtubnvw
pubqwopkk.r.bqbnnrwsqKo.qr.bqv..bqlr.vqkfefhkfnfwhzqtuqko.trqrnnyh.ww
rnnewsqI.hnvqe.qvpwqko.qlr.pkqatk,qvtkoqko.qjrnvwqwkrfllhtulqynrqtkw
r.yfw.sqPqufei.rqnyqnko.rqitrbwqonaa.bqpinfkqpenulqko.qrftuwsqYprqpvpz
Tqwpvqpqlpfukqjpkqwhtu qjrnfjotulhzqphnulqpqvphh,qifkqkrpj.wqnyqe.u
ko.r.qv.r.qunu.s

Ko.qbpzqw..e.b,qizqjnukrpwkqvtkoqezqr.j.ukqjnuytu.e.uk,qbpddhtulhz
irtlok,qko.qw zqpqlhnvtulqihf.sqPql.ukh.qir..d.q .akqko.qr.bqv..bqkopk
jnc.r.bq.c.rzqwjrpaqnyqfunjjfat.bqlrnfubql.ukhzqwvpztulsqPubqno!qko.
wv..ku.wwqnyqko.qptr!


CTs

KO.qVNR qNYqYTYK..UqBPZWs

Ynrqwne.qkte.qTqwknnbqknkk.rtulqnuqko.qenfubqr.lprbh.wwqnyqezqwpy.kzs
Vtkotuqkopkquntwne.qb.uqyrneqvotjoqTqopbq.e.rl.bqTqopbqkonflokqvtkoqp
uprrnvqtuk.uwtkzqnuhzqnyqnfrqtee.btpk.qw.jfrtkzsqTqopbqunkqr.phtw.b
vopkqopbqi..uqopaa.utulqknqko.qvnrhb,qopbqunkqpuktjtapk.bqkotw
wkprkhtulqctwtnuqnyqfuypethtprqkotulwsqTqopbq.ma.jk.bqknqw..qWo..uqtu
rftuw—Tqynfubqpinfkqe.qko.qhpubwjpa.,qv.trbqpubqhfrtb,qnyqpunko.r
ahpu.ks

Ynrqkopkqene.ukqTqknfjo.bqpuq.enktnuqi.znubqko.qjneenuqrpul.qnyqe.u,
z.kqnu.qkopkqko.qannrqirfk.wqv.qbnetupk.q unvqnuhzqknnqv.hhsqTqy.hkqpw
pqrpiitkqetlokqy..hqr.kfrutulqknqotwqifrrnvqpubqwfbb.uhzqjnuyrnuk.bqiz
ko.qvnr qnyqpqbnd.uqifwzqupcct.wqbtlltulqko.qynfubpktnuwqnyqpqonfw.sqT
y.hkqko.qytrwkqtu htulqnyqpqkotulqkopkqar.w.ukhzqlr.vqxftk.qjh.prqtuqez
etub,qkopkqnaar.ww.bqe.qynrqepuzqbpzw,qpqw.uw.qnyqb.kornu.e.uk,qp
a.rwfpwtnuqkopkqTqvpwqunqhnul.rqpqepwk.r,qifkqpuqputephqpenulqko.
putephw,qfub.rqko.qEprktpuqo..hsqVtkoqfwqtkqvnfhbqi.qpwqvtkoqko.e,qkn
hfr qpubqvpkjo,qknqrfuqpubqotb.;qko.qy.prqpubq.eatr.qnyqepuqopbqapww.b
pvpzs

Ifkqwnqwnnuqpwqkotwqwkrpul.u.wwqopbqi..uqr.phtw.bqtkqapww.b,qpubqez
bnetupukqenktc.qi.jpe.qko.qoful.rqnyqezqhnulqpubqbtwephqypwksqTuqko.
btr.jktnuqpvpzqyrneqko.qatkqTqwpv,qi.znubqpqr.b-jnc.r.bqvphh,qpqapkjo
nyqlprb.uqlrnfubqfuifrt.bsqKotwqlpc.qe.qpqotuk,qpubqTqv.ukq u..-b..a,
pubqwne.kte.wqu.j -b..a,qtuqko.qr.bqv..bsqKo.qb.uwtkzqnyqko.qv..bqlpc.
e.qpqr.pwwfrtulqw.uw.qnyqotbtulsqKo.qvphhqvpwqwne.qwtmqy..kqotlo,qpub
vo.uqTqpkk.eak.bqknqjhpei.rqtkqTqynfubqTqjnfhbqunkqhtykqezqy..kqknqko.
jr.wksqWnqTqv.ukqphnulqizqko.qwtb.qnyqtk,qpubqjpe.qknqpqjnru.rqpubqp
rnj vnr qkopkq.upih.bqe.qknql.kqknqko.qkna,qpubqkfeih.qtuknqko.qlprb.u
Tqjnc.k.bsqO.r.qTqynfubqwne.qznfulqnutnuw,qpqjnfah.qnyqlhpbtnhfwqifhiw,
pubqpqxfpuktkzqnyqteepkfr.qjprrnkw,qphhqnyqvotjoqTqw.jfr.b,qpub,
wjrpeihtulqnc.rqpqrftu.bqvphh,qv.ukqnuqezqvpzqkornfloqwjprh.kqpub
jrtewnuqkr..wqknvprbwq .v—tkqvpwqht .qvph tulqkornfloqpuqpc.uf.qny
ltlpuktjqihnnbqbrnaw—anww.ww.bqvtkoqkvnqtb.pw:qknql.kqenr.qynnb,qpubqkn
htea,qpwqwnnuqpubqpwqyprqpwqezqwkr.ulkoqa.retkk.b,qnfkqnyqkotwqpjjfrw.b
fu.prkohzqr.ltnuqnyqko.qatks

Wne.qvpzqyprko.r,qtuqpqlrpwwzqahpj.,qvpwqpqlrnfaqnyqefwornnewqvotjo
phwnqTqb.cnfr.b,qpubqko.uqTqjpe.qfanuqpqirnvuqwo..kqnyqyhnvtulqwophhnv
vpk.r,qvo.r.qe.pbnvwqfw.bqknqi.sqKo.w.qyrple.ukwqnyqunfrtwoe.ukqw.rc.b
nuhzqknqvo.kqezqoful.rsqPkqytrwkqTqvpwqwfrartw.bqpkqkotwqyhnnbqtuqp
onk,qbrzqwfee.r,qifkqpyk.rvprbwqTqbtwjnc.r.bqkopkqtkqvpwqjpfw.bqizqko.
krnatjphq.mfi.rpuj.qnyqko.qr.bqv..bsqBtr.jkhzqkotwq.mkrpnrbtuprzqlrnvko
.ujnfuk.r.bqvpk.rqtkqwkrptlokvpzqi.jpe.qltlpuktjqpubqnyqfuaprphh.h.b
y.jfubtkzsqTkwqw..bwqv.r.qwteahzqanfr.bqbnvuqtuknqko.qvpk.rqnyqko.qV.z
pubqKope.w,qpubqtkwqwvtykhzqlrnvtulqpubqKtkputjqvpk.rqyrnubwqwa..bthz
jon .bqinkoqkonw.qrtc.rws

PkqAfku.z,qpwqTqpyk.rvprbwqwpv,qko.qirtbl.qvpwqphenwkqhnwkqtuqpqkpulh.
nyqkotwqv..b,qpubqpkqRtjoenub,qknn,qko.qKope.wqvpk.rqanfr.bqtuqpqirnpb
pubqwophhnvqwkr.peqpjrnwwqko.qe.pbnvwqnyqOpeaknuqpubqKvtj .uopesqPwqko.
vpk.rqwar.pbqko.qv..bqynhhnv.bqko.e,qfukthqko.qrftu.bqcthhpwqnyqko.
Kope.wqcphh.zqv.r.qynrqpqkte.qhnwkqtuqkotwqr.bqwvpea,qvonw.qeprltuqT
.mahnr.b,qpubqefjoqnyqko.qb.wnhpktnuqko.qEprktpuwqopbqjpfw.bqvpw
jnuj.ph.bs

Tuqko.q.ubqko.qr.bqv..bqwfjjfei.bqphenwkqpwqxftj hzqpwqtkqopbqwar.pbsqP
jpu .rtulqbtw.pw.,qbf.,qtkqtwqi.ht.c.b,qknqko.qpjktnuqnyqj.rkptu
ipjk.rtp,qar.w.ukhzqw.td.bqfanuqtksqUnvqizqko.qpjktnuqnyqupkfrph
w.h.jktnu,qphhqk.rr.wkrtphqahpukwqopc.qpjxftr.bqpqr.wtwktulqanv.r
plptuwkqipjk.rtphqbtw.pw.w—ko.zqu.c.rqwfjjfeiqvtkonfkqpqw.c.r.
wkrfllh.,qifkqko.qr.bqv..bqrnkk.bqht .qpqkotulqphr.pbzqb.pbsqKo.qyrnubw
i.jpe.qih.pjo.b,qpubqko.uqwortc.hh.bqpubqirtkkh.sqKo.zqirn .qnyyqpkqko.
h.pwkqknfjo,qpubqko.qvpk.rwqkopkqopbqwktefhpk.bqko.trq.prhzqlrnvko
jprrt.bqko.trqhpwkqc.wktl.wqnfkqknqw.ps

Ezqytrwkqpjkqnuqjnetulqknqkotwqvpk.rqvpw,qnyqjnfrw.,qknqwhp .qez
kotrwksqTqbrpu qpqlr.pkqb.phqnyqtkqpub,qenc.bqizqpuqteafhw.,qlupv.b
wne.qyrnubwqnyqr.bqv..b;qifkqko.zqv.r.qvpk.rz,qpubqopbqpqwtj hz,
e.kphhtjqkpwk.sqTqynfubqko.qvpk.rqvpwqwfyytjt.ukhzqwophhnvqynrqe.qkn
vpb.qw.jfr.hz,qphkonfloqko.qr.bqv..bqtea.b.bqezqy..kqpqhtkkh.;qifkqko.
yhnnbq.ctb.ukhzqlnkqb..a.rqknvprbwqko.qrtc.r,qpubqTqkfru.bqipj qkn
Enrkhp .sqTqepupl.bqknqep .qnfkqko.qrnpbqizqe.puwqnyqnjjpwtnuphqrftuw
nyqtkwqcthhpwqpubqy.uj.wqpubqhpeaw,qpubqwnqar.w.ukhzqTqlnkqnfkqnyqkotw
wapk.qpubqepb.qezqvpzqknqko.qothhqlntulqfaqknvprbwqRn.opeaknuqpubqjpe.
nfkqnuqAfku.zqJneenus

O.r.qko.qwj.u.rzqjopul.bqyrneqko.qwkrpul.qpubqfuypethtprqknqko.
vr.j pl.qnyqko.qypethtpr:qapkjo.wqnyqlrnfubq.motitk.bqko.qb.cpwkpktnu
nyqpqjzjhnu.,qpubqtuqpqy.vqwjnr.qzprbwqTqvnfhbqjne.qfanuqa.ry.jkhz
fubtwkfri.bqwapj.w,qonfw.wqvtkoqko.trqihtubwqkrtehzqbrpvuqpubqbnnrw
jhnw.b,qpwqtyqko.zqopbqi..uqh.ykqynrqpqbpzqizqko.qnvu.rw,qnrqpwqty
ko.trqtuopitkpukwqwh.akqvtkotusqKo.qr.bqv..bqvpwqh.wwqpifubpuk;qko.
kphhqkr..wqphnulqko.qhpu.qv.r.qyr..qyrneqko.qr.bqjr..a.rsqTqofuk.bqynr
ynnbqpenulqko.qkr..w,qytubtulqunkotul,qpubqTqphwnqrptb.bqpqjnfah.qny
wth.ukqonfw.w,qifkqko.zqopbqphr.pbzqi..uqirn .uqtuknqpubqrpuwpj .bsqT
r.wk.bqynrqko.qr.eptub.rqnyqko.qbpzhtlokqtuqpqworfii.rz,qi.tul,qtuqez
.uy..ih.bqjnubtktnu,qknnqypktlf.bqknqafwoqnus

Phhqkotwqkte.qTqwpvqunqofepuqi.tulw,qpubqunqwtluwqnyqko.qEprktpuwsqT
.ujnfuk.r.bqpqjnfah.qnyqofulrz-hnn tulqbnlw,qifkqinkoqofrrt.b
jtrjftknfwhzqpvpzqyrneqko.qpbcpuj.wqTqepb.qko.esqU.prqRn.opeaknuqTqopb
w..uqkvnqofepuqw .h.knuw—unkqinbt.w,qifkqw .h.knuw,qatj .bqjh.pu—pubqtu
ko.qvnnbqizqe.qTqynfubqko.qjrfwo.bqpubqwjpkk.r.bqinu.wqnyqw.c.rphqjpkw
pubqrpiitkwqpubqko.qw fhhqnyqpqwo..asqIfkqkonfloqTqlupv.bqaprkwqny
ko.w.qtuqezqenfko,qko.r.qvpwqunkotulqknqi.qlnkqyrneqko.es

Pyk.rqwfuw.kqTqwkrfllh.bqnuqphnulqko.qrnpbqknvprbwqAfku.z,qvo.r.qT
kotu qko.qO.pk-Rpzqefwkqopc.qi..uqfw.bqynrqwne.qr.pwnusqPubqtuqko.
lprb.uqi.znubqRn.opeaknuqTqlnkqpqxfpuktkzqnyqteepkfr.qankpkn.w,
wfyytjt.ukqknqwkpzqezqoful.rsqYrneqkotwqlprb.uqnu.qhnn .bqbnvuqfanu
Afku.zqpubqko.qrtc.rsqKo.qpwa.jkqnyqko.qahpj.qtuqko.qbfw qvpw
wtulfhprhzqb.wnhpk.:qihpj .u.bqkr..w,qihpj .u.b,qb.wnhpk.qrftuw,qpub
bnvuqko.qothhqko.qwo..kwqnyqko.qyhnnb.bqrtc.r,qr.b-ktul.bqvtkoqko.
v..bsqPubqnc.rqphh—wth.uj.sqTkqythh.bqe.qvtkoqtub.wjrtipih.qk.rrnrqkn
kotu qonvqwvtykhzqkopkqb.wnhpktulqjopul.qopbqjne.s

Ynrqpqkte.qTqi.ht.c.bqkopkqepu tubqopbqi..uqwv.akqnfkqnyq.mtwk.uj.,qpub
kopkqTqwknnbqko.r.qphnu.,qko.qhpwkqepuqh.ykqphtc.sqOprbqizqko.qknaqny
Afku.zqOthhqTqjpe.qfanuqpunko.rqw .h.knu,qvtkoqko.qprewqbtwhnjpk.bqpub
r.enc.bqw.c.rphqzprbwqyrneqko.qr.wkqnyqko.qinbzsqPwqTqarnj..b.bqT
i.jpe.qenr.qpubqenr.qjnuctuj.bqkopkqko.q.mk.retupktnuqnyqepu tubqvpw,
wpc.qynrqwfjoqwkrpllh.rwqpwqezw.hy,qphr.pbzqpjjneahtwo.bqtuqkotwqaprk
nyqko.qvnrhbsqKo.qEprktpuw,qTqkonflok,qopbqlnu.qnuqpubqh.ykqko.qjnfukrz
b.wnhpk.b,qw.. tulqynnbq.hw.vo.r.sqA.ropawq.c.uqunvqko.zqv.r.
b.wkrnztulqI.rhtuqnrqAprtw,qnrqtkqetlokqi.qko.zqopbqlnu.qunrkovprbs


CTTs

KO.qEPUqNUqAFKU.ZqOTHHs

Tqwa.ukqkopkqutlokqtuqko.qtuuqkopkqwkpubwqpkqko.qknaqnyqAfku.zqOthh,
wh..atulqtuqpqepb.qi.bqynrqko.qytrwkqkte.qwtuj.qezqyhtlokqkn
H.pko.ro.pbsqTqvthhqunkqk.hhqko.qu..bh.wwqkrnfih.qTqopbqir.p tulqtukn
kopkqonfw.—pyk.rvprbwqTqynfubqko.qyrnukqbnnrqvpwqnuqko.qhpkjo—unrqonvqT
rpuwpj .bq.c.rzqrnneqynrqynnb,qfukthqgfwkqnuqko.qc.rl.qnyqb.waptr,qtu
vopkqw..e.bqknqe.qknqi.qpqw.rcpuk’wqi.brnne,qTqynfubqpqrpk-lupv.bqjrfwk
pubqkvnqktuwqnyqatu.paah.sqKo.qahpj.qopbqi..uqphr.pbzqw.prjo.bqpub
.eakt.bsqTuqko.qiprqTqpyk.rvprbwqynfubqwne.qitwjftkwqpubqwpubvtjo.w
kopkqopbqi..uqnc.rhnn .bsqKo.qhpkk.rqTqjnfhbqunkq.pk,qko.zqv.r.qknn
rnkk.u,qifkqko.qynre.rqunkqnuhzqwkpz.bqezqoful.r,qifkqythh.bqez
anj .kwsqTqhtkqunqhpeaw,qy.prtulqwne.qEprktpuqetlokqjne.qi.pktulqkopk
aprkqnyqHnubnuqynrqynnbqtuqko.qutloksqI.ynr.qTqv.ukqknqi.bqTqopbqpu
tuk.rcphqnyqr.wkh.wwu.ww,qpubqarnvh.bqyrneqvtubnvqknqvtubnv,qa..rtul
nfkqynrqwne.qwtluqnyqko.w.qenuwk.rwsqTqwh.akqhtkkh.sqPwqTqhpzqtuqi.bqT
ynfubqezw.hyqkotu tulqjnuw.jfktc.hz—pqkotulqTqbnqunkqr.e.ei.rqknqopc.
bnu.qwtuj.qezqhpwkqprlfe.ukqvtkoqko.qjfrpk.sqBfrtulqphhqko.qtuk.rc.utul
kte.qezqe.ukphqjnubtktnuqopbqi..uqpqofrrztulqwfjj.wwtnuqnyqcplf.
.enktnuphqwkpk.wqnrqpqwnrkqnyqwkfatbqr.j.aktctkzsqIfkqtuqko.qutlokqez
irptu,qr.tuynrj.b,qTqwfaanw.,qizqko.qynnbqTqopbq.pk.u,qlr.vqjh.pr
plptu,qpubqTqkonfloks

Kor..qkotulwqwkrfllh.bqynrqanww.wwtnuqnyqezqetub:qko.q thhtulqnyqko.
jfrpk.,qko.qvo.r.pinfkwqnyqko.qEprktpuw,qpubqko.qanwwtih.qypk.qnyqez
vty.sqKo.qynre.rqlpc.qe.qunqw.uwpktnuqnyqonrrnrqnrqr.enrw.qknqr.jphh;qT
wpvqtkqwteahzqpwqpqkotulqbnu.,qpqe.enrzqtuytutk.hzqbtwplr..pih.qifk
xftk.qvtkonfkqko.qxfphtkzqnyqr.enrw.sqTqwpvqezw.hyqko.uqpwqTqw..qezw.hy
unv,qbrtc.uqwk.aqizqwk.aqknvprbwqkopkqopwkzqihnv,qko.qjr.pkfr.qnyqp
w.xf.uj.qnyqpjjtb.ukwqh.pbtulqtu.ctkpihzqknqkopksqTqy.hkqun
jnub.eupktnu;qz.kqko.qe.enrz,qwkpktj,qfuarnlr.wwtc.,qopfuk.bqe.sqTuqko.
wth.uj.qnyqko.qutlok,qvtkoqkopkqw.uw.qnyqko.qu.pru.wwqnyqLnbqkopk
wne.kte.wqjne.wqtuknqko.qwkthhu.wwqpubqko.qbpr u.ww,qTqwknnbqezqkrtph,
ezqnuhzqkrtph,qynrqkopkqene.ukqnyqvrpkoqpubqy.prsqTqr.krpj.bq.c.rzqwk.a
nyqnfrqjnuc.rwpktnuqyrneqko.qene.ukqvo.uqTqopbqynfubqoteqjrnfjotul
i.wtb.qe.,qo..bh.wwqnyqezqkotrwk,qpubqantuktulqknqko.qytr.qpubqwen .
kopkqwkr.pe.bqfaqyrneqko.qrftuwqnyqV.zirtbl.sqV.qopbqi..uqtujpapih.qny
jn-na.rpktnu—lrteqjopuj.qopbqkp .uqunqo..bqnyqkopksqOpbqTqynr.w..u,qT
wonfhbqopc.qh.ykqoteqpkqOphhtynrbsqIfkqTqbtbqunkqynr.w..;qpubqjrte.qtw
knqynr.w..qpubqbnsqPubqTqw.kqkotwqbnvuqpwqTqopc.qw.kqphhqkotwqwknrz
bnvu,qpwqtkqvpwsqKo.r.qv.r.qunqvtku.ww.w—phhqko.w.qkotulwqTqetlokqopc.
jnuj.ph.bsqIfkqTqw.kqtkqbnvu,qpubqko.qr.pb.rqefwkqynreqotwqgfble.ukqpw
o.qvthhs

Pubqvo.u,qizqpuq.yynrk,qTqopbqw.kqpwtb.qkopkqatjkfr.qnyqpqarnwkrpk.
inbz,qTqypj.bqko.qarnih.eqnyqko.qEprktpuwqpubqko.qypk.qnyqezqvty.sqYnr
ko.qynre.rqTqopbqunqbpkp;qTqjnfhbqtepltu.qpqofubr.bqkotulw,qpubqwn,
fuopaathz,qTqjnfhbqynrqko.qhpkk.rsqPubqwfbb.uhzqkopkqutlokqi.jpe.
k.rrtih.sqTqynfubqezw.hyqwtkktulqfaqtuqi.b,qwkprtulqpkqko.qbpr sqT
ynfubqezw.hyqarpztulqkopkqko.qO.pk-Rpzqetlokqopc.qwfbb.uhzqpub
aptuh.wwhzqwkrfj qo.rqnfkqnyqi.tulsqWtuj.qko.qutlokqnyqezqr.kfruqyrne
H.pko.ro.pbqTqopbqunkqarpz.bsqTqopbqfkk.r.bqarpz.rw,qy.ktwoqarpz.rw,
opbqarpz.bqpwqo.pko.uwqefkk.rqjoprewqvo.uqTqvpwqtuq.mkr.etkz;qifkqunvqT
arpz.bqtub..b,qah.pbtulqwk.pbypwkhzqpubqwpu.hz,qypj.qknqypj.qvtkoqko.
bpr u.wwqnyqLnbsqWkrpul.qutlok!qWkrpul.wkqtuqkotw,qkopkqwnqwnnuqpwqbpvu
opbqjne.,qT,qvonqopbqkph .bqvtkoqLnb,qjr.akqnfkqnyqko.qonfw.qht .qpqrpk
h.pctulqtkwqotbtulqahpj.—pqjr.pkfr.qwjprj.hzqhprl.r,qpuqtuy.rtnr
puteph,qpqkotulqkopkqynrqpuzqapwwtulqvoteqnyqnfrqepwk.rwqetlokqi.
ofuk.bqpubq thh.bsqA.ropawqko.zqphwnqarpz.bqjnuytb.ukhzqknqLnbsqWfr.hz,
tyqv.qopc.qh.pru.bqunkotulq.hw.,qkotwqvprqopwqkpflokqfwqatkz—atkzqynr
konw.qvtkh.wwqwnfhwqkopkqwfyy.rqnfrqbnetutnus

Ko.qenrutulqvpwqirtlokqpubqytu.,qpubqko.q.pwk.ruqw zqlhnv.bqatu ,qpub
vpwqyr.kk.bqvtkoqhtkkh.qlnhb.uqjhnfbwsqTuqko.qrnpbqkopkqrfuwqyrneqko.
knaqnyqAfku.zqOthhqknqVteih.bnuqvpwqpqufei.rqnyqannrqc.wktl.wqnyqko.
aputjqknrr.ukqkopkqefwkqopc.qanfr.bqHnubnuvprbqnuqko.qWfubpzqutlok
pyk.rqko.qytloktulqi.lpusqKo.r.qvpwqpqhtkkh.qkvn-vo..h.bqjprkqtuwjrti.b
vtkoqko.qupe.qnyqKonepwqHnii,qLr..ulrnj.r,qU.vqEphb.u,qvtkoqpqwepwo.b
vo..hqpubqpuqpipubnu.bqktuqkrfu ;qko.r.qvpwqpqwkrpvqopkqkrpeah.bqtukn
ko.qunvqoprb.u.bqefb,qpubqpkqko.qknaqnyqV.wkqOthhqpqhnkqny
ihnnb-wkptu.bqlhpwwqpinfkqko.qnc.rkfru.bqvpk.rqkrnflosqEzqenc.e.ukw
v.r.qhpulftb,qezqahpuwqnyqko.qcplf.wksqTqopbqpuqtb.pqnyqlntulqkn
H.pko.ro.pb,qkonfloqTq u.vqkopkqko.r.qTqopbqko.qannr.wkqjopuj.qny
ytubtulqezqvty.sqJ.rkptuhz,qfuh.wwqb.pkoqopbqnc.rkp .uqko.eqwfbb.uhz,
ezqjnfwtuwqpubqwo.qvnfhbqopc.qyh.bqko.uj.;qifkqtkqw..e.bqknqe.qTqetlok
ytubqnrqh.pruqko.r.qvotko.rqko.qWfrr.zqa.nah.qopbqyh.bsqTq u.vqTqvpuk.b
knqytubqezqvty.,qkopkqezqo.prkqpjo.bqynrqo.rqpubqko.qvnrhbqnyqe.u,qifk
Tqopbqunqjh.prqtb.pqonvqko.qytubtulqetlokqi.qbnu.sqTqvpwqphwnqwoprahz
pvpr.qunvqnyqezqtuk.uw.qhnu.htu.wwsqYrneqko.qjnru.rqTqv.uk,qfub.rqjnc.r
nyqpqkotj .kqnyqkr..wqpubqifwo.w,qknqko.q.bl.qnyqVteih.bnuqJneenu,
wkr.kjotulqvtb.qpubqyprs

Kopkqbpr q.mapuw.qvpwqhtkqtuqapkjo.wqizqz.hhnvqlnrw.qpubqirnne;qko.r.
vpwqunqr.bqv..bqknqi.qw..u,qpubqpwqTqarnvh.b,qo.wtkpktul,qnuqko.qc.rl.
nyqko.qna.u,qko.qwfuqrnw.,qyhnnbtulqtkqphhqvtkoqhtlokqpubqctkphtkzsqT
jpe.qfanuqpqifwzqwvpreqnyqhtkkh.qyrnlwqtuqpqwvpeazqahpj.qpenulqko.
kr..wsqTqwknaa.bqknqhnn qpkqko.e,qbrpvtulqpqh.wwnuqyrneqko.trqwknfk
r.wnhc.qknqhtc.sqPubqar.w.ukhz,qkfrutulqwfbb.uhz,qvtkoqpuqnbbqy..htul
nyqi.tulqvpkjo.b,qTqi.o.hbqwne.kotulqjrnfjotulqpetbqpqjhfeaqnyqifwo.ws
Tqwknnbqr.lprbtulqkotwsqTqepb.qpqwk.aqknvprbwqtk,qpubqtkqrnw.qfaqpub
i.jpe.qpqepuqpre.bqvtkoqpqjfkhpwwsqTqpaarnpjo.bqoteqwhnvhzsqO.qwknnb
wth.ukqpubqenktnuh.ww,qr.lprbtulqe.s

PwqTqbr.vqu.pr.rqTqa.rj.tc.bqo.qvpwqbr.ww.bqtuqjhnko.wqpwqbfwkzqpub
ythkozqpwqezqnvu;qo.qhnn .b,qtub..b,qpwqkonfloqo.qopbqi..uqbrpll.b
kornfloqpqjfhc.rksqU.pr.r,qTqbtwktulftwo.bqko.qlr..uqwhte.qnyqbtkjo.w
etmtulqvtkoqko.qaph.qbrpiqnyqbrt.bqjhpzqpubqwotuz,qjnphzqapkjo.wsqOtw
ihpj qoptrqy.hhqnc.rqotwq.z.w,qpubqotwqypj.qvpwqbpr qpubqbtrkzqpub
wfu .u,qwnqkopkqpkqytrwkqTqbtbqunkqr.jnlutw.qotesqKo.r.qvpwqpqr.bqjfk
pjrnwwqko.qhnv.rqaprkqnyqotwqypj.s

“Wkna!”qo.qjrt.b,qvo.uqTqvpwqvtkotuqk.uqzprbwqnyqote,qpubqTqwknaa.bs
Otwqcntj.qvpwqonprw.sq“Vo.r.qbnqznfqjne.qyrne?”qo.qwptbs

Tqkonflok,qwfrc.ztulqotes

“Tqjne.qyrneqEnrkhp .,”qTqwptbsq“Tqvpwqifrt.bqu.prqko.qatkqko.qEprktpuw
epb.qpinfkqko.trqjzhtub.rsqTqopc.qvnr .bqezqvpzqnfkqpubq.wjpa.bs”

“Ko.r.qtwqunqynnbqpinfkqo.r.,”qo.qwptbsq“KotwqtwqezqjnfukrzsqPhhqkotw
othhqbnvuqknqko.qrtc.r,qpubqipj qknqJhpaope,qpubqfaqknqko.q.bl.qnyqko.
jneenusqKo.r.qtwqnuhzqynnbqynrqnu.sqVotjoqvpzqpr.qznfqlntul?”

Tqpuwv.r.bqwhnvhzs

“Tqbnu’kq unv,”qTqwptbsq“Tqopc.qi..uqifrt.bqtuqko.qrftuwqnyqpqonfw.
kotrk..uqnrqynfrk..uqbpzwsqTqbnu’kq unvqvopkqopwqopaa.u.bs”

O.qhnn .bqpkqe.qbnfikyfhhz,qko.uqwkprk.b,qpubqhnn .bqvtkoqpqjopul.b
.mar.wwtnus

“T’c.qunqvtwoqknqwknaqpinfkqo.r.,”qwptbqTsq“Tqkotu qTqwophhqlnqkn
H.pko.ro.pb,qynrqezqvty.qvpwqko.r.s”

O.qwonkqnfkqpqantuktulqytul.rs

“Tkqtwqznf,”qwptbqo.;q“ko.qepuqyrneqVn tulsqPubqznfqv.r.u’kq thh.bqpk
V.zirtbl.?”

Tqr.jnlutw.bqoteqpkqko.qwpe.qene.uks

“Znfqpr.qko.qprkthh.rzepuqvonqjpe.qtuknqezqlprb.us”

“Lnnbqhfj !”qo.qwptbsq“V.qpr.qhfj zqnu.w!qYpujzq_znf_!”qO.qafkqnfkqp
opub,qpubqTqknn qtksq“Tqjrpvh.bqfaqpqbrptu,”qo.qwptbsq“Ifkqko.zqbtbu’k
 thhq.c.rznu.sqPubqpyk.rqko.zqv.ukqpvpzqTqlnkqnyyqknvprbwqVphknuqpjrnww
ko.qyt.hbwsqIfk——qTk’wqunkqwtmk..uqbpzwqphknl.ko.r—pubqznfrqoptrqtw
lr.zs”qO.qhnn .bqnc.rqotwqwonfhb.rqwfbb.uhzsq“Nuhzqpqrnn ,”qo.qwptbs
“Nu.ql.kwqknq unvqkopkqitrbwqopc.qwopbnvwqko.w.qbpzwsqKotwqtwqpqitk
na.usqH.kqfwqjrpvhqfub.rqkonw.qifwo.wqpubqkph s”

“Opc.qznfqw..uqpuzqEprktpuw?”qTqwptbsq“Wtuj.qTqjrpvh.bqnfk——”

“Ko.z’c.qlnu.qpvpzqpjrnwwqHnubnu,”qo.qwptbsq“Tqlf.wwqko.z’c.qlnkqp
itll.rqjpeaqko.r.sqNyqpqutlok,qphhqnc.rqko.r.,qOpeawk.pbqvpz,qko.qw z
twqphtc.qvtkoqko.trqhtlokwsqTk’wqht .qpqlr.pkqjtkz,qpubqtuqko.qlhpr.
znfqjpuqgfwkqw..qko.eqenctulsqIzqbpzhtlokqznfqjpu’ksqIfkqu.pr.r—T
opc.u’kqw..uqko.e—”q(o.qjnfuk.bqnuqotwqytul.rw)q“ytc.qbpzwsqKo.uqTqwpv
pqjnfah.qpjrnwwqOpee.rwetkoqvpzqjprrztulqwne.kotulqitlsqPubqko.qutlok
i.ynr.qhpwk”—o.qwknaa.bqpubqwan .qtear.wwtc.hz—“tkqvpwqgfwkqpqepkk.rqny
htlokw,qifkqtkqvpwqwne.kotulqfaqtuqko.qptrsqTqi.ht.c.qko.z’c.qifthkqp
yhztul-epjotu.,qpubqpr.qh.prutulqknqyhzs”

Tqwknaa.b,qnuqopubwqpubq u..w,qynrqv.qopbqjne.qknqko.qifwo.ws

“Yhz!”

“Z.w,”qo.qwptb,q“yhzs”

Tqv.ukqnuqtuknqpqhtkkh.qinv.r,qpubqwpkqbnvus

“Tkqtwqphhqnc.rqvtkoqofeputkz,”qTqwptbsq“Tyqko.zqjpuqbnqkopkqko.zqvthh
wteahzqlnqrnfubqko.qvnrhbs”

O.qunbb.bs

“Ko.zqvthhsqIfk——qTkqvthhqr.ht.c.qkotulwqnc.rqo.r.qpqitksqPub
i.wtb.w——”qO.qhnn .bqpkqe.sq“Pr.u’kqznfqwpktwyt.bqtkq_tw_qfaqvtko
ofeputkz?qTqpesqV.’r.qbnvu;qv.’r.qi.pks”

Tqwkpr.bsqWkrpul.qpwqtkqepzqw..e,qTqopbqunkqprrtc.bqpkqkotwqypjk—pqypjk
a.ry.jkhzqnictnfwqwnqwnnuqpwqo.qwan .sqTqopbqwkthhqo.hbqpqcplf.qona.;
rpko.r,qTqopbq .akqpqhty.hnulqopitkqnyqetubsqO.qr.a.pk.bqotwqvnrbw,
“V.’r.qi.pks”qKo.zqjprrt.bqpiwnhfk.qjnuctjktnus

“Tk’wqphhqnc.r,”qo.qwptbsq“Ko.z’c.qhnwkq_nu._—gfwkq_nu._sqPubqko.z’c.
epb.qko.trqynnktulqlnnbqpubqjrtaah.bqko.qlr.pk.wkqanv.rqtuqko.qvnrhbs
Ko.z’c.qvph .bqnc.rqfwsqKo.qb.pkoqnyqkopkqnu.qpkqV.zirtbl.qvpwqpu
pjjtb.uksqPubqko.w.qpr.qnuhzqatnu..rwsqKo.zq .akqnuqjnetulsqKo.w.qlr..u
wkprw—T’c.qw..uqunu.qko.w.qytc.qnrqwtmqbpzw,qifkqT’c.qunqbnfikqko.z’r.
yphhtulqwne.vo.r.q.c.rzqutloksqUnkotul’wqknqi.qbnu.sqV.’r.qfub.r!qV.’r.
i.pk!”

Tqepb.qotequnqpuwv.rsqTqwpkqwkprtulqi.ynr.qe.,qkrztulqtuqcptuqknqb.ctw.
wne.qjnfuk.rcpthtulqkonfloks

“Kotwqtwu’kqpqvpr,”qwptbqko.qprkthh.rzepusq“Tkqu.c.rqvpwqpqvpr,qpuz
enr.qkopuqko.r.’wqvprqi.kv..uqepuqpubqpukws”

Wfbb.uhzqTqr.jphh.bqko.qutlokqtuqko.qniw.rcpknrzs

“Pyk.rqko.qk.ukoqwonkqko.zqytr.bqunqenr.—pkqh.pwk,qfukthqko.qytrwk
jzhtub.rqjpe.s”

“Onvqbnqznfq unv?”qwptbqko.qprkthh.rzepusqTq.mahptu.bsqO.qkonfloks
“Wne.kotulqvrnulqvtkoqko.qlfu,”qo.qwptbsq“Ifkqvopkqtyqko.r.qtw?qKo.z’hh
l.kqtkqrtlokqplptusqPubq.c.uqtyqko.r.’wqpqb.hpz,qonvqjpuqtkqphk.rqko.
.ub?qTk’wqgfwkqe.uqpubqpukwsqKo.r.’wqko.qpukwqifthbwqko.trqjtkt.w,qhtc.
ko.trqhtc.w,qopc.qvprw,qr.cnhfktnuw,qfukthqko.qe.uqvpukqko.eqnfkqnyqko.
vpz,qpubqko.uqko.zqlnqnfkqnyqko.qvpzsqKopk’wqvopkqv.qpr.qunv—gfwkqpukws
Nuhz——”

“Z.w,”qTqwptbs

“V.’r.q.pkpih.qpukws”

V.qwpkqhnn tulqpkq.pjoqnko.rs

“Pubqvopkqvthhqko.zqbnqvtkoqfw?”qTqwptbs

“Kopk’wqvopkqT’c.qi..uqkotu tul,”qo.qwptb;q“kopk’wqvopkqT’c.qi..u
kotu tulsqPyk.rqV.zirtbl.qTqv.ukqwnfko—kotu tulsqTqwpvqvopkqvpwqfas
Enwkqnyqko.qa.nah.qv.r.qoprbqpkqtkqwxf.phtulqpubq.mjtktulqko.ew.hc.ws
IfkqT’equnkqwnqynubqnyqwxf.phtulsqT’c.qi..uqtuqwtlokqnyqb.pkoqnuj.qnr
kvtj.;qT’equnkqpuqnrupe.ukphqwnhbt.r,qpubqpkqko.qi.wkqpubqvnrwk,
b.pko—tk’wqgfwkqb.pkosqPubqtk’wqko.qepuqkopkq ..awqnuqkotu tulqjne.w
kornflosqTqwpvq.c.rznu.qkrpj tulqpvpzqwnfkosqWpzwqT,q‘Ynnbqvnu’kqhpwk
kotwqvpz,’qpubqTqkfru.bqrtlokqipj sqTqv.ukqynrqko.qEprktpuwqht .qp
waprrnvqln.wqynrqepusqPhhqrnfub”—o.qvpc.bqpqopubqknqko.
onrtdnu—“ko.z’r.qwkprctulqtuqo.paw,qinhktul,qkr.pbtulqnuq.pjoqnko.rsqs
sqs”

O.qwpvqezqypj.,qpubqophk.bqpv vprbhzs

“Unqbnfikqhnkwqvonqopbqenu.zqopc.qlnu.qpvpzqknqYrpuj.,”qo.qwptbsqO.
w..e.bqknqo.wtkpk.qvo.ko.rqknqpanhnltw.,qe.kqezq.z.w,qpubqv.ukqnu:
“Ko.r.’wqynnbqphhqpinfkqo.r.sqJpuu.bqkotulwqtuqwonaw;qvtu.w,qwatrtkw,
etu.rphqvpk.rw;qpubqko.qvpk.rqeptuwqpubqbrptuwqpr.q.eakzsqV.hh,qTqvpw
k.hhtulqznfqvopkqTqvpwqkotu tulsq‘O.r.’wqtuk.hhtl.ukqkotulw,’qTqwptb,
‘pubqtkqw..ewqko.zqvpukqfwqynrqynnbsqYtrwk,qko.z’hhqwepwoqfwqfa—wotaw,
epjotu.w,qlfuw,qjtkt.w,qphhqko.qnrb.rqpubqnrlputwpktnusqPhhqkopkqvthh
lnsqTyqv.qv.r.qko.qwtd.qnyqpukwqv.qetlokqafhhqkornflosqIfkqv.’r.qunks
Tk’wqphhqknnqifh zqknqwknasqKopk’wqko.qytrwkqj.rkptukzs’q.o?”

Tqpww.uk.bs

“Tkqtw;qT’c.qkonflokqtkqnfksqC.rzqv.hh,qko.u—u.mk;qpkqar.w.ukqv.’r.
jpflokqpwqv.’r.qvpuk.bsqPqEprktpuqopwqnuhzqknqlnqpqy.vqeth.wqknql.kqp
jrnvbqnuqko.qrfusqPubqTqwpvqnu.,qnu.qbpz,qnfkqizqVpubwvnrko,qatj tul
onfw.wqknqat.j.wqpubqrnfktulqpenulqko.qvr.j pl.sqIfkqko.zqvnu’kq ..aqnu
bntulqkopksqWnqwnnuqpwqko.z’c.qw.kkh.bqphhqnfrqlfuwqpubqwotaw,qpub
wepwo.bqnfrqrpthvpzw,qpubqbnu.qphhqko.qkotulwqko.zqpr.qbntulqnc.r
ko.r.,qko.zqvthhqi.ltuqjpkjotulqfwqwzwk.epktj,qatj tulqko.qi.wkqpub
wknrtulqfwqtuqjpl.wqpubqkotulwsqKopk’wqvopkqko.zqvthhqwkprkqbntulqtuqp
itksqHnrb!qKo.zqopc.u’kqi.lfuqnuqfwqz.ksqBnu’kqznfqw..qkopk?”

“Unkqi.lfu!”qTq.mjhpte.bs

“Unkqi.lfusqPhhqkopk’wqopaa.u.bqwnqyprqtwqkornfloqnfrqunkqopctulqko.
w.uw.qknq ..aqxft.k—vnrrztulqko.eqvtkoqlfuwqpubqwfjoqynnh.rzsqPub
hnwtulqnfrqo.pbw,qpubqrfwotulqnyyqtuqjrnvbwqknqvo.r.qko.r.qvpwu’kqpuz
enr.qwpy.kzqkopuqvo.r.qv.qv.r.sqKo.zqbnu’kqvpukqknqinko.rqfwqz.ks
Ko.z’r.qep tulqko.trqkotulw—ep tulqphhqko.qkotulwqko.zqjnfhbu’kqirtul
vtkoqko.e,ql.kktulqkotulwqr.pbzqynrqko.qr.wkqnyqko.trqa.nah.sqC.rz
ht .hzqkopk’wqvozqko.qjzhtub.rwqopc.qwknaa.bqynrqpqitk,qynrqy.prqny
otkktulqkonw.qvonqpr.qo.r.sqPubqtuwk.pbqnyqnfrqrfwotulqpinfkqihtub,qnu
ko.qonvh,qnrql.kktulqbzupetk.qnuqko.qjopuj.qnyqifwktulqko.eqfa,qv.’c.
lnkqknqytmqnfrw.hc.wqfaqpjjnrbtulqknqko.qu.vqwkpk.qnyqpyyptrwsqKopk’w
onvqTqytlfr.qtkqnfksqTkqtwu’kqxftk.qpjjnrbtulqknqvopkqpqepuqvpukwqynr
otwqwa.jt.w,qifkqtk’wqpinfkqvopkqko.qypjkwqantukqknsqPubqkopk’wqko.
artujtah.qTqpjk.bqfanusqJtkt.w,qupktnuw,qjtcthtwpktnu,qarnlr.ww—tk’w
phhqnc.rsqKopkqlpe.’wqfasqV.’r.qi.pks”

“Ifkqtyqkopkqtwqwn,qvopkqtwqko.r.qknqhtc.qynr?”

Ko.qprkthh.rzepuqhnn .bqpkqe.qynrqpqene.uks

“Ko.r.qvnu’kqi.qpuzqenr.qih.ww.bqjnuj.rkwqynrqpqethhtnuqz.prwqnrqwn;
ko.r.qvnu’kqi.qpuzqRnzphqPjpb.ezqnyqPrkw,qpubqunqutj.qhtkkh.qy..bwqpk
r.wkpfrpukwsqTyqtk’wqpefw.e.ukqznf’r.qpyk.r,qTqr.j nuqko.qlpe.qtwqfas
Tyqznf’c.qlnkqpuzqbrpvtul-rnneqepuu.rwqnrqpqbtwht .qknq.pktulqa.pwqvtko
pq uty.qnrqbrnaatulqptkjo.w,qznf’bqi.kk.rqjofj q’.eqpvpzsqKo.zqptu’kqun
yfrko.rqfw.s”

“Znfqe.pu——”

“Tqe.puqkopkqe.uqht .qe.qpr.qlntulqnuqhtctul—ynrqko.qwp .qnyqko.qir..bs
Tqk.hhqznf,qT’eqlrteqw.kqnuqhtctulsqPubqtyqT’equnkqetwkp .u,qznf’hh
wonvqvopkqtuwtb.wq_znf’c._qlnk,qknn,qi.ynr.qhnulsqV.qpr.u’kqlntulqknqi.
.mk.retupk.bsqPubqTqbnu’kqe.puqknqi.qjpflokq.tko.r,qpubqkpe.bqpub
ypkk.u.bqpubqir.bqht .qpqkofub.rtulqnmsqFlo!qYpujzqkonw.qirnvu
jr..a.rw!”

“Znfqbnu’kqe.puqknqwpz——”

“TqbnsqT’eqlntulqnu,qfub.rqko.trqy..ksqT’c.qlnkqtkqahpuu.b;qT’c.
konflokqtkqnfksqV.qe.uqpr.qi.pksqV.qbnu’kq unvq.unflosqV.’c.qlnkqkn
h.pruqi.ynr.qv.’c.qlnkqpqjopuj.sqPubqv.’c.qlnkqknqhtc.qpubq ..a
tub.a.ub.ukqvoth.qv.qh.prusqW..!qKopk’wqvopkqopwqknqi.qbnu.s”

Tqwkpr.b,qpwknutwo.b,qpubqwktrr.bqarnynfubhzqizqko.qepu’wqr.wnhfktnus

“Lr.pkqLnb!”qjrt.bqTsq“Ifkqznfqpr.qpqepuqtub..b!”qPubqwfbb.uhzqT
lrtaa.bqotwqopubs

“.o!”qo.qwptb,qvtkoqotwq.z.wqwotutulsq“T’c.qkonflokqtkqnfk,q.o?”

“Lnqnu,”qTqwptbs

“V.hh,qkonw.qvonqe.puqknq.wjpa.qko.trqjpkjotulqefwkql.kqr.pbzsqT’e
l.kktulqr.pbzsqEtubqznf,qtkqtwu’kqphhqnyqfwqkopkqpr.qepb.qynrqvthb
i.pwkw;qpubqkopk’wqvopkqtk’wqlnkqknqi.sqKopk’wqvozqTqvpkjo.bqznfsqTqopb
ezqbnfikwsqZnf’r.qwh.ub.rsqTqbtbu’kq unvqkopkqtkqvpwqznf,qznfqw..,qnr
gfwkqonvqznf’bqi..uqifrt.bsqPhhqko.w.—ko.qwnrkqnyqa.nah.qkopkqhtc.bqtu
ko.w.qonfw.w,qpubqphhqkonw.qbpeuqhtkkh.qjh.r wqkopkqfw.bqknqhtc.qbnvu
_kopk_qvpz—ko.z’bqi.qunqlnnbsqKo.zqopc.u’kqpuzqwatrtkqtuqko.e—unqarnfb
br.pewqpubqunqarnfbqhfwkw;qpubqpqepuqvonqopwu’kqnu.qnrqko.qnko.r—Hnrb!
Vopkqtwqo.qifkqyfu qpubqar.jpfktnuw?qKo.zqgfwkqfw.bqknqw .bpbbh.qnyyqkn
vnr —T’c.qw..uqofubr.bwqnyq’.e,qitkqnyqir.p ypwkqtuqopub,qrfuutulqvthb
pubqwotutulqknqjpkjoqko.trqhtkkh.qw.pwnu-ktj .kqkrptu,qynrqy.prqko.z’b
l.kqbtwetww.bqtyqko.zqbtbu’k;qvnr tulqpkqifwtu.ww.wqko.zqv.r.qpyrptbqkn
kp .qko.qkrnfih.qknqfub.rwkpub;qw .bpbbhtulqipj qynrqy.prqko.zqvnfhbu’k
i.qtuqkte.qynrqbtuu.r;q ..atulqtubnnrwqpyk.rqbtuu.rqynrqy.prqnyqko.
ipj qwkr..kw,qpubqwh..atulqvtkoqko.qvtc.wqko.zqeprrt.b,qunkqi.jpfw.
ko.zqvpuk.bqko.e,qifkqi.jpfw.qko.zqopbqpqitkqnyqenu.zqkopkqvnfhbqep .
ynrqwpy.kzqtuqko.trqnu.qhtkkh.qetw.rpih.qw .bpbbh.qkornfloqko.qvnrhbs
Htc.wqtuwfr.bqpubqpqitkqtuc.wk.bqynrqy.prqnyqpjjtb.ukwsqPubqnu
Wfubpzw—y.prqnyqko.qo.r.pyk.rsqPwqtyqo.hhqvpwqifthkqynrqrpiitkw!qV.hh,
ko.qEprktpuwqvthhqgfwkqi.qpqlnbw.ubqknqko.w.sqUtj.qrnnezqjpl.w,
ypkk.utulqynnb,qjpr.yfhqir..btul,qunqvnrrzsqPyk.rqpqv.. qnrqwnqjopwtul
pinfkqko.qyt.hbwqpubqhpubwqnuq.eakzqwknepjow,qko.z’hhqjne.qpubqi.
jpflokqjo..ryfhsqKo.z’hhqi.qxftk.qlhpbqpyk.rqpqitksqKo.z’hhqvnub.rqvopk
a.nah.qbtbqi.ynr.qko.r.qv.r.qEprktpuwqknqkp .qjpr.qnyqko.esqPubqko.qipr
hnpy.rw,qpubqepwo.rw,qpubqwtul.rw—Tqjpuqtepltu.qko.esqTqjpuqtepltu.
ko.e,”qo.qwptb,qvtkoqpqwnrkqnyqwneir.qlrpktytjpktnusq“Ko.r.’hhqi.qpuz
penfukqnyqw.ukte.ukqpubqr.htltnuqhnnw.qpenulqko.esqKo.r.’wqofubr.bwqny
kotulwqTqwpvqvtkoqezq.z.wqkopkqT’c.qnuhzqi.lfuqknqw..qjh.prhzqko.w.
hpwkqy.vqbpzwsqKo.r.’wqhnkwqvthhqkp .qkotulwqpwqko.zqpr.—ypkqpub
wkfatb;qpubqhnkwqvthhqi.qvnrrt.bqizqpqwnrkqnyqy..htulqkopkqtk’wqphh
vrnul,qpubqkopkqko.zqnflokqknqi.qbntulqwne.kotulsqUnvqvo.u.c.rqkotulw
pr.qwnqkopkqpqhnkqnyqa.nah.qy..hqko.zqnflokqknqi.qbntulqwne.kotul,qko.
v.p ,qpubqkonw.qvonqlnqv.p qvtkoqpqhnkqnyqjneahtjpk.bqkotu tul,qphvpzw
ep .qynrqpqwnrkqnyqbn-unkotulqr.htltnu,qc.rzqatnfwqpubqwfa.rtnr,qpub
wfietkqknqa.rw.jfktnuqpubqko.qvthhqnyqko.qHnrbsqC.rzqht .hzqznf’c.qw..u
ko.qwpe.qkotulsqTk’wq.u.rlzqtuqpqlph.qnyqyfu ,qpubqkfru.bqjh.puqtuwtb.
nfksqKo.w.qjpl.wqvthhqi.qyfhhqnyqawphewqpubqozeuwqpubqat.kzsqPubqkonw.
nyqpqh.wwqwteah.qwnrkqvthhqvnr qtuqpqitkqny—vopkqtwqtk?—.rnktjtwes”

O.qapfw.bs

“C.rzqht .hzqko.w.qEprktpuwqvthhqep .qa.kwqnyqwne.qnyqko.e;qkrptuqko.e
knqbnqkrtj w—vonq unvw?—l.kqw.ukte.ukphqnc.rqko.qa.kqinzqvonqlr.vqfa
pubqopbqknqi.q thh.bsqPubqwne.,qepzi.,qko.zqvthhqkrptuqknqofukqfws”

“Un,”qTqjrt.b,q“kopk’wqteanwwtih.!qUnqofepuqi.tul——”

“Vopk’wqko.qlnnbqnyqlntulqnuqvtkoqwfjoqht.w?”qwptbqko.qprkthh.rzepus
“Ko.r.’wqe.uqvon’bqbnqtkqjo..ryfhsqVopkqunuw.uw.qknqar.k.ubqko.r.
twu’k!”

PubqTqwfjjfei.bqknqotwqjnuctjktnus

“Tyqko.zqjne.qpyk.rqe.,”qo.qwptb;q“Hnrb,qtyqko.zqjne.qpyk.rqe.!”qpub
wfiwtb.bqtuknqpqlrteqe.btkpktnus

Tqwpkqjnuk.eahpktulqko.w.qkotulwsqTqjnfhbqytubqunkotulqknqirtulqplptuwk
kotwqepu’wqr.pwnutulsqTuqko.qbpzwqi.ynr.qko.qtucpwtnuqunqnu.qvnfhbqopc.
xf.wktnu.bqezqtuk.hh.jkfphqwfa.rtnrtkzqknqotw—T,qpqarny.ww.bqpub
r.jnlutw.bqvrtk.rqnuqaothnwnaotjphqko.e.w,qpubqo.,qpqjneenuqwnhbt.r;
pubqz.kqo.qopbqphr.pbzqynrefhpk.bqpqwtkfpktnuqkopkqTqopbqwjprj.hz
r.phtw.bs

“Vopkqpr.qznfqbntul?”qTqwptbqar.w.ukhzsq“Vopkqahpuwqopc.qznfqepb.?”

O.qo.wtkpk.bs

“V.hh,qtk’wqht .qkotw,”qo.qwptbsq“Vopkqopc.qv.qknqbn?qV.qopc.qknqtuc.uk
pqwnrkqnyqhty.qvo.r.qe.uqjpuqhtc.qpubqir..b,qpubqi.qwfyytjt.ukhzqw.jfr.
knqirtulqko.qjothbr.uqfasqZ.w—vptkqpqitk,qpubqT’hhqep .qtkqjh.pr.rqvopk
Tqkotu qnflokqknqi.qbnu.sqKo.qkpe.qnu.wqvthhqlnqht .qphhqkpe.qi.pwkw;
tuqpqy.vql.u.rpktnuwqko.z’hhqi.qitl,qi.pfktyfh,qrtjo-ihnnb.b,
wkfatb—rfiitwo!qKo.qrtw qtwqkopkqv.qvonq ..aqvthbqvthhqln
wpcpl.—b.l.u.rpk.qtuknqpqwnrkqnyqitl,qwpcpl.qrpksqsqsqsqZnfqw..,qonvqT
e.puqknqhtc.qtwqfub.rlrnfubsqT’c.qi..uqkotu tulqpinfkqko.qbrptuwsqNy
jnfrw.qkonw.qvonqbnu’kq unvqbrptuwqkotu qonrrtih.qkotulw;qifkqfub.r
kotwqHnubnuqpr.qeth.wqpubqeth.w—ofubr.bwqnyqeth.w—pubqpqy.vqbpzwqrptu
pubqHnubnuq.eakzqvthhqh.pc.qko.eqwv..kqpubqjh.pusqKo.qeptuqbrptuwqpr.
itlq.unfloqpubqptrzq.unfloqynrqpuznu.sqKo.uqko.r.’wqj.hhprw,qcpfhkw,
wknr.w,qyrneqvotjoqinhktulqapwwpl.wqepzqi.qepb.qknqko.qbrptuwsqPubqko.
rpthvpzqkfuu.hwqpubqwfivpzwsq.o?qZnfqi.ltuqknqw..?qPubqv.qynreqp
ipub—pih.-inbt.b,qjh.pu-etub.bqe.usqV.’r.qunkqlntulqknqatj qfaqpuz
rfiitwoqkopkqbrtykwqtusqV.p htulwqlnqnfkqplptus”

“Pwqznfqe.pukqe.qknqln?”

“V.hh—Tqaprh.z.b,qbtbu’kqT?”

“V.qvnu’kqxfprr.hqpinfkqkopksqLnqnus”

“Konw.qvonqwknaqni.zqnrb.rwsqPih.-inbt.b,qjh.pu-etub.bqvne.uqv.qvpuk
phwn—enko.rwqpubqk.pjo.rwsqUnqhpj pbptwtjphqhpbt.w—unqihpwk.bqrnhhtul
.z.wsqV.qjpu’kqopc.qpuzqv.p qnrqwthhzsqHty.qtwqr.phqplptu,qpubqko.
fw.h.wwqpubqjfei.rwne.qpubqetwjot.cnfwqopc.qknqbt.sqKo.zqnflokqknqbt.s
Ko.zqnflokqknqi.qvthhtulqknqbt.sqTk’wqpqwnrkqnyqbtwhnzphkz,qpyk.rqphh,
knqhtc.qpubqkptukqko.qrpj.sqPubqko.zqjpu’kqi.qopaazsqEnr.nc.r,qbztul’w
unu.qwnqbr.pbyfh;qtk’wqko.qyfu tulqep .wqtkqipbsqPubqtuqphhqkonw.
ahpj.wqv.qwophhqlpko.rsqNfrqbtwkrtjkqvthhqi.qHnubnusqPubqv.qepzq.c.uqi.
pih.qknq ..aqpqvpkjo,qpubqrfuqpinfkqtuqko.qna.uqvo.uqko.qEprktpuwq ..a
pvpzsqAhpzqjrtj .k,qa.ropawsqKopk’wqonvqv.qwophhqwpc.qko.qrpj.sq.o?
Tk’wqpqanwwtih.qkotul?qIfkqwpctulqko.qrpj.qtwqunkotulqtuqtkw.hysqPwqT
wpz,qkopk’wqnuhzqi.tulqrpkwsqTk’wqwpctulqnfrq unvh.bl.qpubqpbbtulqknqtk
twqko.qkotulsqKo.r.qe.uqht .qznfqjne.qtusqKo.r.’wqinn w,qko.r.’w
enb.hwsqV.qefwkqep .qlr.pkqwpy.qahpj.wqbnvuqb..a,qpubql.kqphhqko.qinn w
v.qjpu;qunkqunc.hwqpubqan.krzqwvta.w,qifkqtb.pw,qwjt.uj.qinn wsqKopk’w
vo.r.qe.uqht .qznfqjne.qtusqV.qefwkqlnqknqko.qIrtktwoqEfw.feqpubqatj 
phhqkonw.qinn wqkornflosq.wa.jtphhzqv.qefwkq ..aqfaqnfrqwjt.uj.—h.pru
enr.sqV.qefwkqvpkjoqko.w.qEprktpuwsqWne.qnyqfwqefwkqlnqpwqwat.wsqVo.u
tk’wqphhqvnr tul,qa.ropawqTqvthhsqL.kqjpflok,qTqe.pusqPubqko.qlr.pk
kotulqtw,qv.qefwkqh.pc.qko.qEprktpuwqphnu.sqV.qefwku’kq.c.uqwk.phsqTy
v.ql.kqtuqko.trqvpz,qv.qjh.prqnfksqV.qefwkqwonvqko.eqv.qe.puqunqopres
Z.w,qTq unvsqIfkqko.z’r.qtuk.hhtl.ukqkotulw,qpubqko.zqvnu’kqofukqfw
bnvuqtyqko.zqopc.qphhqko.zqvpuk,qpubqkotu qv.’r.qgfwkqopreh.wwqc.retus”

Ko.qprkthh.rzepuqapfw.bqpubqhptbqpqirnvuqopubqfanuqezqpres

“Pyk.rqphh,qtkqepzqunkqi.qwnqefjoqv.qepzqopc.qknqh.pruqi.ynr.—Gfwk
tepltu.qkotw:qynfrqnrqytc.qnyqko.trqytloktulqepjotu.wqwfbb.uhzqwkprktul
nyy—O.pk-Rpzwqrtlokqpubqh.yk,qpubqunkqpqEprktpuqtuq’.esqUnkqpqEprktpu
tuq’.e,qifkqe.u—e.uqvonqopc.qh.pru.bqko.qvpzqonvsqTkqepzqi.qtuqezqkte.,
.c.u—konw.qe.usqYpujzqopctulqnu.qnyqko.eqhnc.hzqkotulw,qvtkoqtkw
O.pk-Rpzqvtb.qpubqyr..!qYpujzqopctulqtkqtuqjnukrnh!qVopkqvnfhbqtk
epkk.rqtyqznfqwepwo.bqknqwetko.r..uwqpkqko.q.ubqnyqko.qrfu,qpyk.rqp
ifwkqht .qkopk?qTqr.j nuqko.qEprktpuw’hhqna.uqko.trqi.pfktyfhq.z.w!
Jpu’kqznfqw..qko.e,qepu?qJpu’kqznfqw..qko.eqofrrztul,qofrrztul—afyytul
pubqihnvtulqpubqonnktulqknqko.trqnko.rqe.joputjphqpyyptrw?qWne.kotul
nfkqnyql.prqtuq.c.rzqjpw.sqPubqwvtwo,qipul,qrpkkh.,qwvtwo!qGfwkqpwqko.z
pr.qyfeihtulqnc.rqtk,q_wvtwo_qjne.wqko.qO.pk-Rpz,qpub,qi.onhb!qepuqopw
jne.qipj qknqotwqnvus”

Ynrqpqvoth.qko.qtepltupktc.qbprtulqnyqko.qprkthh.rzepu,qpubqko.qknu.qny
pwwfrpuj.qpubqjnfrpl.qo.qpwwfe.b,qjneah.k.hzqbnetupk.bqezqetubsqT
i.ht.c.bqfuo.wtkpktulhzqinkoqtuqotwqynr.jpwkqnyqofepuqb.wktuzqpubqtu
ko.qarpjktjpithtkzqnyqotwqpwknutwotulqwjo.e.,qpubqko.qr.pb.rqvonqkotu w
e.qwfwj.aktih.qpubqynnhtwoqefwkqjnukrpwkqotwqanwtktnu,qr.pbtulqwk.pbthz
vtkoqphhqotwqkonflokwqpinfkqotwqwfig.jk,qpubqetu.,qjrnfjotulqy.pryfhhz
tuqko.qifwo.wqpubqhtwk.utul,qbtwkrpjk.bqizqpaar.o.uwtnusqV.qkph .bqtu
kotwqepuu.rqkornfloqko.q.prhzqenrutulqkte.,qpubqhpk.rqjr.akqnfkqnyqko.
ifwo.w,qpub,qpyk.rqwjpuutulqko.qw zqynrqEprktpuw,qofrrt.bqar.jtatkpk.hz
knqko.qonfw.qnuqAfku.zqOthhqvo.r.qo.qopbqepb.qotwqhptrsqTkqvpwqko.qjnph
j.hhprqnyqko.qahpj.,qpubqvo.uqTqwpvqko.qvnr qo.qopbqwa.ukqpqv.. 
fanu—tkqvpwqpqifrrnvqwjprj.hzqk.uqzprbwqhnul,qvotjoqo.qb.wtlu.bqkn
r.pjoqknqko.qeptuqbrptuqnuqAfku.zqOthh—Tqopbqezqytrwkqtu htulqnyqko.
lfhyqi.kv..uqotwqbr.pewqpubqotwqanv.rwsqWfjoqpqonh.qTqjnfhbqopc.qbflqtu
pqbpzsqIfkqTqi.ht.c.bqtuqoteqwfyytjt.ukhzqknqvnr qvtkoqoteqphhqkopk
enrutulqfukthqapwkqetbbpzqpkqotwqbtlltulsqV.qopbqpqlprb.uqiprrnvqpub
wonkqko.q.prkoqv.qr.enc.bqplptuwkqko.q tkjo.uqrpul.sqV.qr.yr.wo.b
nfrw.hc.wqvtkoqpqktuqnyqenj -kfrkh.qwnfaqpubqvtu.qyrneqko.qu.tloinfrtul
apukrzsqTqynfubqpqjfrtnfwqr.ht.yqyrneqko.qpjotulqwkrpul.u.wwqnyqko.
vnrhbqtuqkotwqwk.pbzqhpinfrsqPwqv.qvnr .b,qTqkfru.bqotwqarng.jkqnc.rqtu
ezqetub,qpubqar.w.ukhzqnig.jktnuwqpubqbnfikwqi.lpuqknqprtw.;qifkqT
vnr .bqko.r.qphhqko.qenrutul,qwnqlhpbqvpwqTqknqytubqezw.hyqvtkoqp
afranw.qplptusqPyk.rqvnr tulqpuqonfrqTqi.lpuqknqwa.jfhpk.qnuqko.
btwkpuj.qnu.qopbqknqlnqi.ynr.qko.qjhnpjpqvpwqr.pjo.b,qko.qjopuj.wqv.
opbqnyqetwwtulqtkqphknl.ko.rsqEzqtee.btpk.qkrnfih.qvpwqvozqv.qwonfhb
btlqkotwqhnulqkfuu.h,qvo.uqtkqvpwqanwwtih.qknql.kqtuknqko.qbrptuqpk
nuj.qbnvuqnu.qnyqko.qepuonh.w,qpubqvnr qipj qknqko.qonfw.sqTkqw..e.bqkn
e.,qknn,qkopkqko.qonfw.qvpwqtujnuc.ut.ukhzqjonw.u,qpubqr.xftr.bqp
u..bh.wwqh.ulkoqnyqkfuu.hsqPubqgfwkqpwqTqvpwqi.ltuutulqknqypj.qko.w.
kotulw,qko.qprkthh.rzepuqwknaa.bqbtlltul,qpubqhnn .bqpkqe.s

“V.’r.qvnr tulqv.hh,”qo.qwptbsqO.qafkqbnvuqotwqwapb.sq“H.kqfwq unj qnyy
pqitk”qo.qwptbsq“Tqkotu qtk’wqkte.qv.qr.jnuuntkr.bqyrneqko.qrnnyqnyqko.
onfw.s”

Tqvpwqynrqlntulqnu,qpubqpyk.rqpqhtkkh.qo.wtkpktnuqo.qr.wfe.bqotwqwapb.;
pubqko.uqwfbb.uhzqTqvpwqwkrfj qizqpqkonfloksqTqwknaa.b,qpubqwnqbtbqo.
pkqnuj.s

“Vozqv.r.qznfqvph tulqpinfkqko.qjneenu,”qTqwptb,q“tuwk.pbqnyqi.tul
o.r.?”

“Kp tulqko.qptr,”qo.qwptbsq“Tqvpwqjnetulqipj sqTk’wqwpy.rqizqutloks”

“Ifkqko.qvnr ?”

“No,qnu.qjpu’kqphvpzwqvnr ,”qo.qwptb,qpubqtuqpqyhpwoqTqwpvqko.qepu
ahptusqO.qo.wtkpk.b,qonhbtulqotwqwapb.sq“V.qnflokqknqr.jnuuntkr.qunv,”
o.qwptb,q“i.jpfw.qtyqpuzqjne.qu.prqko.zqepzqo.prqko.qwapb.wqpubqbrna
fanuqfwqfupvpr.ws”

Tqvpwqunqhnul.rqbtwanw.bqknqnig.jksqV.qv.ukqknl.ko.rqknqko.qrnnyqpub
wknnbqnuqpqhpbb.rqa..atulqnfkqnyqko.qrnnyqbnnrsqUnqEprktpuwqv.r.qknqi.
w..u,qpubqv.qc.ukfr.bqnfkqnuqko.qkth.w,qpubqwhtaa.bqbnvuqfub.rqwo.hk.r
nyqko.qaprpa.ks

Yrneqkotwqanwtktnuqpqworfii.rzqotbqko.qlr.pk.rqanrktnuqnyqAfku.z,qifk
v.qjnfhbqw..qko.qrtc.rqi.hnv,qpqifiihzqepwwqnyqr.bqv..b,qpubqko.qhnv
aprkwqnyqHpei.koqyhnnb.bqpubqr.bsqKo.qr.bqjr..a.rqwvpre.bqfaqko.qkr..w
pinfkqko.qnhbqaphpj.,qpubqko.trqirpujo.wqwkr.kjo.bqlpfukqpubqb.pb,qpub
w.kqvtkoqwortc.hh.bqh.pc.w,qyrneqpetbqtkwqjhfwk.rwsqTkqvpwqwkrpul.qonv
.uktr.hzqb.a.ub.ukqinkoqko.w.qkotulwqv.r.qfanuqyhnvtulqvpk.rqynrqko.tr
arnaplpktnusqPinfkqfwqu.tko.rqopbqlptu.bqpqynnktul;qhpifrufew,qatu 
epzw,qwunviphhw,qpubqkr..wqnyqprinr-ctkp.,qrnw.qnfkqnyqhpfr.hwqpub
ozbrpul.pw,qlr..uqpubqirthhtpukqtuknqko.qwfuhtloksqI.znubq .uwtulknu
b.uw.qwen .qvpwqrtwtul,qpubqkopkqpubqpqihf.qopd.qotbqko.qunrkovprb
othhws

Ko.qprkthh.rzepuqi.lpuqknqk.hhqe.qnyqko.qwnrkqnyqa.nah.qvonqwkthh
r.eptu.bqtuqHnubnus

“Nu.qutlokqhpwkqv.. ,”qo.qwptb,q“wne.qynnhwqlnkqko.q.h.jkrtjqhtlokqtu
nrb.r,qpubqko.r.qvpwqphhqR.l.ukqWkr..kqpubqko.qJtrjfwqpihpd.,qjrnvb.b
vtkoqaptuk.bqpubqrpll.bqbrfu prbw,qe.uqpubqvne.u,qbpujtulqpubqwonfktul
kthhqbpvusqPqepuqvonqvpwqko.r.qknhbqe.sqPubqpwqko.qbpzqjpe.qko.zqi.jpe.
pvpr.qnyqpqytloktul-epjotu.qwkpubtulqu.prqizqko.qHpulopeqpubqhnn tul
bnvuqpkqko.esqO.pc.uq unvwqonvqhnulqo.qopbqi..uqko.r.sqTkqefwkqopc.
ltc.uqwne.qnyqko.eqpqupwkzqkfrusqO.qjpe.qbnvuqko.qrnpbqknvprbwqko.e,
pubqatj .bqfaqu.prhzqpqofubr.bqknnqbrfu qnrqyrtlok.u.bqknqrfuqpvpzs”

Lrnk.wxf.qlh.peqnyqpqkte.qunqotwknrzqvthhq.c.rqyfhhzqb.wjrti.!

Yrneqkopk,qtuqpuwv.rqknqezqxf.wktnuw,qo.qjpe.qrnfubqknqotwqlrpubtnw.
ahpuwqplptusqO.qlr.vq.ukofwtpwktjsqO.qkph .bqwnq.hnxf.ukhzqnyqko.
anwwtithtkzqnyqjpakfrtulqpqytloktul-epjotu.qkopkqTqenr.qkopuqophy
i.ht.c.bqtuqoteqplptusqIfkqunvqkopkqTqvpwqi.ltuutulqknqfub.rwkpub
wne.kotulqnyqotwqxfphtkz,qTqjnfhbqbtctu.qko.qwkr.wwqo.qhptbqnuqbntul
unkotulqar.jtatkpk.hzsqPubqTqunk.bqkopkqunvqko.r.qvpwqunqxf.wktnuqkopk
o.qa.rwnuphhzqvpwqknqjpakfr.qpubqytlokqko.qlr.pkqepjotu.s

Pyk.rqpqkte.qv.qv.ukqbnvuqknqko.qj.hhprsqU.tko.rqnyqfwqw..e.bqbtwanw.b
knqr.wfe.qbtlltul,qpubqvo.uqo.qwfll.wk.bqpqe.ph,qTqvpwqunkotulqhnpkos
O.qi.jpe.qwfbb.uhzqc.rzql.u.rnfw,qpubqvo.uqv.qopbq.pk.uqo.qv.ukqpvpz
pubqr.kfru.bqvtkoqwne.q.mj.hh.ukqjtlprwsqV.qhtkqko.w.,qpubqotwqnaktetwe
lhnv.bsqO.qvpwqtujhtu.bqknqr.lprbqezqjnetulqpwqpqlr.pkqnjjpwtnus

“Ko.r.’wqwne.qjopeaplu.qtuqko.qj.hhpr,”qo.qwptbs

“V.qjpuqbtlqi.kk.rqnuqkotwqKope.w-wtb.qifrlfubz,”qwptbqTs

“Un,”qwptbqo.;q“TqpeqonwkqknbpzsqJopeaplu.!qLr.pkqLnb!qV.’c.qpqo.pcz
.unfloqkpw qi.ynr.qfw!qH.kqfwqkp .qpqr.wkqpubqlpko.rqwkr.ulkoqvoth.qv.
epzsqHnn qpkqko.w.qihtwk.r.bqopubw!”

Pubqafrwfpukqknqkotwqtb.pqnyqpqonhtbpz,qo.qtuwtwk.bqfanuqahpztulqjprbw
pyk.rqv.qopbq.pk.usqO.qkpflokqe.q.fjor.,qpubqpyk.rqbtctbtulqHnubnu
i.kv..uqfw,qTqkp tulqko.qunrko.ruqwtb.qpubqo.qko.qwnfko.ru,qv.qahpz.b
ynrqaprtwoqantukwsqLrnk.wxf.qpubqynnhtwoqpwqkotwqvthhqw..eqknqko.qwni.r
r.pb.r,qtkqtwqpiwnhfk.hzqkrf.,qpubqvopkqtwqenr.qr.epr pih.,qTqynfubqko.
jprbqlpe.qpubqw.c.rphqnko.rwqv.qahpz.bq.mkr.e.hzqtuk.r.wktuls

Wkrpul.qetubqnyqepu!qkopk,qvtkoqnfrqwa.jt.wqfanuqko.q.bl.qny
.mk.retupktnuqnrqpaaphhtulqb.lrpbpktnu,qvtkoqunqjh.prqarnwa.jkqi.ynr.
fwqifkqko.qjopuj.qnyqpqonrrtih.qb.pko,qv.qjnfhbqwtkqynhhnvtulqko.
jopuj.qnyqkotwqaptuk.bqapwk.inprb,qpubqahpztulqko.q“gn .r”qvtkoqctctb
b.htloksqPyk.rvprbwqo.qkpflokqe.qan .r,qpubqTqi.pkqoteqpkqkor..qknflo
jo.wwqlpe.wsqVo.uqbpr qjpe.qv.qb.jtb.bqknqkp .qko.qrtw ,qpubqhtkqp
hpeas

Pyk.rqpuqtuk.retupih.qwkrtulqnyqlpe.w,qv.qwfaa.b,qpubqko.qprkthh.rzepu
ytutwo.bqko.qjopeaplu.sqV.qv.ukqnuqwen tulqko.qjtlprwsqO.qvpwqunqhnul.r
ko.q.u.rl.ktjqr.l.u.rpknrqnyqotwqwa.jt.wqTqopbq.ujnfuk.r.bqtuqko.
enrutulsqO.qvpwqwkthhqnaktetwktj,qifkqtkqvpwqpqh.wwq tu.ktj,qpqenr.
konflokyfhqnaktetwesqTqr.e.ei.rqo.qvnfubqfaqvtkoqezqo.phko,qarnanw.bqtu
pqwa..joqnyqwephhqcprt.kzqpubqjnuwtb.rpih.qtuk.retkk.uj.sqTqknn qp
jtlpr,qpubqv.ukqfawkptrwqknqhnn qpkqko.qhtlokwqnyqvotjoqo.qopbqwan .u
kopkqihpd.bqwnqlr..uhzqphnulqko.qOtlolpk.qothhws

PkqytrwkqTqwkpr.bqfutuk.hhtl.ukhzqpjrnwwqko.qHnubnuqcphh.zsqKo.
unrko.ruqothhwqv.r.qwornfb.bqtuqbpr u.ww;qko.qytr.wqu.prq .uwtulknu
lhnv.bqr.bhz,qpubqunvqpubqko.uqpuqnrpul.-r.bqknulf.qnyqyhpe.qyhpwo.bqfa
pubqcputwo.bqtuqko.qb..aqihf.qutloksqPhhqko.qr.wkqnyqHnubnuqvpwqihpj s
Ko.u,qu.pr.r,qTqa.rj.tc.bqpqwkrpul.qhtlok,qpqaph.,qctnh.k-afrah.
yhfnr.wj.ukqlhnv,qxftc.rtulqfub.rqko.qutlokqir..d.sqYnrqpqwapj.qTqjnfhb
unkqfub.rwkpubqtk,qpubqko.uqTq u.vqkopkqtkqefwkqi.qko.qr.bqv..bqyrne
votjoqkotwqyptukqtrrpbtpktnuqarnj..b.bsqVtkoqkopkqr.phtwpktnuqez
bnrepukqw.uw.qnyqvnub.r,qezqw.uw.qnyqko.qarnanrktnuqnyqkotulw,qpvn .
plptusqTqlhpuj.bqyrneqkopkqknqEprw,qr.bqpubqjh.pr,qlhnvtulqotloqtuqko.
v.wk,qpubqko.uqlpd.bqhnulqpubq.pru.wkhzqpkqko.qbpr u.wwqnyqOpeawk.pb
pubqOtlolpk.s

Tqr.eptu.bqpqc.rzqhnulqkte.qfanuqko.qrnny,qvnub.rtulqpkqko.qlrnk.wxf.
jopul.wqnyqko.qbpzsqTqr.jphh.bqezqe.ukphqwkpk.wqyrneqko.qetbutlok
arpz.rqknqko.qynnhtwoqjprb-ahpztulsqTqopbqpqctnh.ukqr.cfhwtnuqny
y..htulsqTqr.e.ei.rqTqyhfulqpvpzqko.qjtlprqvtkoqpqj.rkptuqvpwk.yfh
wzeinhtwesqEzqynhhzqjpe.qknqe.qvtkoqlhprtulq.mpll.rpktnusqTqw..e.bqp
krptknrqknqezqvty.qpubqknqezq tub;qTqvpwqythh.bqvtkoqr.enrw.sqT
r.wnhc.bqknqh.pc.qkotwqwkrpul.qfubtwjtahtu.bqbr.pe.rqnyqlr.pkqkotulwqkn
otwqbrtu qpubqlhfkknuz,qpubqknqlnqnuqtuknqHnubnusqKo.r.,qtkqw..e.bqkn
e.,qTqopbqko.qi.wkqjopuj.qnyqh.prutulqvopkqko.qEprktpuwqpubqez
y.hhnve.uqv.r.qbntulsqTqvpwqwkthhqfanuqko.qrnnyqvo.uqko.qhpk.qennu
rnw.s


CTTTs

B.PBqHNUBNUs

Pyk.rqTqopbqaprk.bqyrneqko.qprkthh.rzepu,qTqv.ukqbnvuqko.qothh,qpubqiz
ko.qOtloqWkr..kqpjrnwwqko.qirtbl.qknqYfhopesqKo.qr.bqv..bqvpw
kfefhkfnfwqpkqkopkqkte.,qpubqu.prhzqjon .bqko.qirtbl.qrnpbvpz;qifkqtkw
yrnubwqv.r.qphr.pbzqvotk.u.bqtuqapkjo.wqizqko.qwar.pbtulqbtw.pw.qkopk
ar.w.ukhzqr.enc.bqtkqwnqwvtykhzs

Pkqko.qjnru.rqnyqko.qhpu.qkopkqrfuwqknqAfku.zqIrtbl.qwkpktnuqTqynfubqp
epuqhztulsqO.qvpwqpwqihpj qpwqpqwv..aqvtkoqko.qihpj qbfwk,qphtc.,qifk
o.hah.wwhzqpubqwa..joh.wwhzqbrfu sqTqjnfhbql.kqunkotulqyrneqoteqifk
jfrw.wqpubqyfrtnfwqhful.wqpkqezqo.pbsqTqkotu qTqwonfhbqopc.qwkpz.bqiz
oteqifkqynrqko.qirfkphq.mar.wwtnuqnyqotwqypj.s

Ko.r.qvpwqihpj qbfwkqphnulqko.qrnpbvpzqyrneqko.qirtbl.qnuvprbw,qpubqtk
lr.vqkotj .rqtuqYfhopesqKo.qwkr..kwqv.r.qonrrtihzqxft.ksqTqlnk
ynnb—wnfr,qoprb,qpubqenfhbz,qifkqxftk.q.pkpih.—tuqpqip .r’wqwonaqo.r.s
Wne.qvpzqknvprbwqVphopeqLr..uqko.qwkr..kwqi.jpe.qjh.prqnyqanvb.r,qpubqT
apww.bqpqvotk.qk.rrpj.qnyqonfw.wqnuqytr.;qko.quntw.qnyqko.qifrutulqvpw
puqpiwnhfk.qr.ht.ysqLntulqnuqknvprbwqIrneaknu,qko.qwkr..kwqv.r.qxft.k
plptus

O.r.qTqjpe.qnuj.qenr.qfanuqko.qihpj qanvb.rqtuqko.qwkr..kwqpubqfanu
b.pbqinbt.wsqTqwpvqphknl.ko.rqpinfkqpqbnd.uqtuqko.qh.ulkoqnyqko.qYfhope
RnpbsqKo.zqopbqi..uqb.pbqepuzqbpzw,qwnqkopkqTqofrrt.bqxftj hzqapwk
ko.esqKo.qihpj qanvb.rqjnc.r.bqko.eqnc.r,qpubqwnyk.u.bqko.trqnfkhtu.ws
Nu.qnrqkvnqopbqi..uqbtwkfri.bqizqbnlws

Vo.r.qko.r.qvpwqunqihpj qanvb.r,qtkqvpwqjfrtnfwhzqht .qpqWfubpzqtuqko.
Jtkz,qvtkoqko.qjhnw.bqwonaw,qko.qonfw.wqhnj .bqfaqpubqko.qihtubwqbrpvu,
ko.qb.w.rktnu,qpubqko.qwkthhu.wwsqTuqwne.qahpj.wqahfub.r.rwqopbqi..uqpk
vnr ,qifkqrpr.hzqpkqnko.rqkopuqko.qarnctwtnuqpubqvtu.qwonawsqP
g.v.hh.r’wqvtubnvqopbqi..uqirn .uqna.uqtuqnu.qahpj.,qifkqpaapr.ukhzqko.
kot.yqopbqi..uqbtwkfri.b,qpubqpqufei.rqnyqlnhbqjoptuwqpubqpqvpkjoqhpz
wjpkk.r.bqnuqko.qapc.e.uksqTqbtbqunkqkrnfih.qknqknfjoqko.esqYprko.rqnu
vpwqpqkpkk.r.bqvnepuqtuqpqo.paqnuqpqbnnrwk.a;qko.qopubqkopkqofulqnc.r
o.rq u..qvpwqlpwo.bqpubqih.bqbnvuqo.rqrfwkzqirnvuqbr.ww,qpubqpqwepwo.b
eplufeqnyqjopeaplu.qynre.bqpqannhqpjrnwwqko.qapc.e.uksqWo.qw..e.b
pwh..a,qifkqwo.qvpwqb.pbs

Ko.qyprko.rqTqa.u.krpk.bqtuknqHnubnu,qko.qarnynfub.rqlr.vqko.
wkthhu.wwsqIfkqtkqvpwqunkqwnqefjoqko.qwkthhu.wwqnyqb.pko—tkqvpwqko.
wkthhu.wwqnyqwfwa.uw.,qnyq.ma.jkpktnusqPkqpuzqkte.qko.qb.wkrfjktnuqkopk
opbqphr.pbzqwtul.bqko.qunrkov.wk.ruqinrb.rwqnyqko.qe.krnanhtw,qpubqopb
puutothpk.bq.phtulqpubq thifru,qetlokqwkrt .qpenulqko.w.qonfw.wqpub
h.pc.qko.eqwen tulqrftuwsqTkqvpwqpqjtkzqjnub.eu.bqpubqb.r.htjksqsqsqs

TuqWnfkoq .uwtulknuqko.qwkr..kwqv.r.qjh.prqnyqb.pbqpubqnyqihpj qanvb.rs
Tkqvpwqu.prqWnfkoq .uwtulknuqkopkqTqytrwkqo.prbqko.qonvhtulsqTkqjr.ak
phenwkqtea.rj.aktihzqfanuqezqw.uw.wsqTkqvpwqpqwniitulqphk.rupktnuqny
kvnqunk.w,q“Fhhp,qfhhp,qfhhp,qfhhp,”q ..atulqnuqa.ra.kfphhzsqVo.uqT
apww.bqwkr..kwqkopkqrpuqunrkovprbqtkqlr.vqtuqcnhfe.,qpubqonfw.wqpub
ifthbtulwqw..e.bqknqb.pb.uqpubqjfkqtkqnyyqplptusqTkqjpe.qtuqpqyfhhqktb.
bnvuq.motitktnuqRnpbsqTqwknaa.b,qwkprtulqknvprbwq .uwtulknuqLprb.uw,
vnub.rtulqpkqkotwqwkrpul.,qr.enk.qvpthtulsqTkqvpwqpwqtyqkopkqetlokz
b.w.rkqnyqonfw.wqopbqynfubqpqcntj.qynrqtkwqy.prqpubqwnhtkfb.s

“Fhhp,qfhhp,qfhhp,qfhhp,”qvpth.bqkopkqwfa.rofepuqunk.—lr.pkqvpc.wqny
wnfubqwv..atulqbnvuqko.qirnpb,qwfuhtkqrnpbvpz,qi.kv..uqko.qkphh
ifthbtulwqnuq.pjoqwtb.sqTqkfru.bqunrkovprbw,qeprc.hhtul,qknvprbwqko.
trnuqlpk.wqnyqOzb.qApr sqTqopbqophyqpqetubqknqir.p qtuknqko.qUpkfrph
OtwknrzqEfw.feqpubqytubqezqvpzqfaqknqko.qwfeetkwqnyqko.qknv.rw,qtu
nrb.rqknqw..qpjrnwwqko.qapr sqIfkqTqb.jtb.bqknq ..aqknqko.qlrnfub,
vo.r.qxftj qotbtulqvpwqanwwtih.,qpubqwnqv.ukqnuqfaqko.q.motitktnuqRnpbs
Phhqko.qhprl.qepuwtnuwqnuq.pjoqwtb.qnyqko.qrnpbqv.r.q.eakzqpubqwkthh,
pubqezqynnkwk.awq.jon.bqplptuwkqko.qwtb.wqnyqko.qonfw.wsqPkqko.qkna,
u.prqko.qapr qlpk.,qTqjpe.qfanuqpqwkrpul.qwtlok—pqifwqnc.rkfru.b,qpub
ko.qw .h.knuqnyqpqonrw.qatj .bqjh.pusqTqafddh.bqnc.rqkotwqynrqpqkte.,
pubqko.uqv.ukqnuqknqko.qirtbl.qnc.rqko.qW.ra.uktu.sqKo.qcntj.qlr.v
wkrnul.rqpubqwkrnul.r,qkonfloqTqjnfhbqw..qunkotulqpinc.qko.qonfw.knaw
nuqko.qunrkoqwtb.qnyqko.qapr ,qwpc.qpqopd.qnyqwen .qknqko.qunrkov.wks

“Fhhp,qfhhp,qfhhp,qfhhp,”qjrt.bqko.qcntj.,qjnetul,qpwqtkqw..e.bqknqe.,
yrneqko.qbtwkrtjkqpinfkqR.l.uk’wqApr sqKo.qb.wnhpktulqjrzqvnr .bqfanu
ezqetubsqKo.qennbqkopkqopbqwfwkptu.bqe.qapww.bsqKo.qvpthtulqknn 
anww.wwtnuqnyqe.sqTqynfubqTqvpwqtuk.uw.hzqv.prz,qynnkwnr.,qpubqunv
plptuqofulrzqpubqkotrwkzs

Tkqvpwqphr.pbzqapwkqunnusqVozqvpwqTqvpub.rtulqphnu.qtuqkotwqjtkzqnyqko.
b.pb?qVozqvpwqTqphnu.qvo.uqphhqHnubnuqvpwqhztulqtuqwkpk.,qpubqtuqtkw
ihpj qwornfb?qTqy.hkqtuknh.rpihzqhnu.hzsqEzqetubqrpuqnuqnhbqyrt.ubw
kopkqTqopbqynrlnkk.uqynrqz.prwsqTqkonflokqnyqko.qantwnuwqtuqko.
jo.etwkw’qwonaw,qnyqko.qhtxfnrwqko.qvtu.qe.rjopukwqwknr.b;qTqr.jphh.b
ko.qkvnqwnbb.uqjr.pkfr.wqnyqb.waptr,qvonqwnqyprqpwqTq u.v,qwopr.bqko.
jtkzqvtkoqezw.hysqsqsqs

Tqjpe.qtuknqNmynrbqWkr..kqizqko.qEprih.qPrjo,qpubqo.r.qplptuqv.r.qihpj 
anvb.rqpubqw.c.rphqinbt.w,qpubqpuq.cth,qnetunfwqwe.hhqyrneqko.qlrpktulw
nyqko.qj.hhprwqnyqwne.qnyqko.qonfw.wsqTqlr.vqc.rzqkotrwkzqpyk.rqko.
o.pkqnyqezqhnulqvph sqVtkoqtuytutk.qkrnfih.qTqepupl.bqknqir.p qtuknqp
afihtj-onfw.qpubql.kqynnbqpubqbrtu sqTqvpwqv.przqpyk.rq.pktul,qpubqv.uk
tuknqko.qaprhnfrqi.otubqko.qipr,qpubqwh.akqnuqpqihpj qonrw.optrqwnypqT
ynfubqko.r.s

Tqpvn .qknqytubqkopkqbtwephqonvhtulqwkthhqtuqezq.prw,q“Fhhp,qfhhp,
fhhp,qfhhps”qTkqvpwqunvqbfw ,qpubqpyk.rqTqopbqrnfk.bqnfkqwne.qitwjftkw
pubqpqjo..w.qtuqko.qipr—ko.r.qvpwqpqe.pkqwpy.,qifkqtkqjnukptu.bqunkotul
ifkqepllnkw—Tqvpub.r.bqnuqkornfloqko.qwth.ukqr.wtb.uktphqwxfpr.wqkn
Ip .rqWkr..k—AnrkepuqWxfpr.qtwqko.qnuhzqnu.qTqjpuqupe.—pubqwnqjpe.qnfk
pkqhpwkqfanuqR.l.uk’wqApr sqPubqpwqTq.e.rl.bqyrneqko.qknaqnyqIp .r
Wkr..k,qTqwpvqyprqpvpzqnc.rqko.qkr..wqtuqko.qjh.pru.wwqnyqko.qwfuw.k
ko.qonnbqnyqko.qEprktpuqltpukqyrneqvotjoqkotwqonvhtulqarnj..b.bsqTqvpw
unkqk.rrtyt.bsqTqjpe.qfanuqoteqpwqtyqtkqv.r.qpqepkk.rqnyqjnfrw.sqT
vpkjo.bqoteqynrqwne.qkte.,qifkqo.qbtbqunkqenc.sqO.qpaa.pr.bqknqi.
wkpubtulqpubqz.hhtul,qynrqunqr.pwnuqkopkqTqjnfhbqbtwjnc.rs

Tqkrt.bqknqynrefhpk.qpqahpuqnyqpjktnusqKopkqa.ra.kfphqwnfubqnyq“Fhhp,
fhhp,qfhhp,qfhhp,”qjnuyfw.bqezqetubsqA.ropawqTqvpwqknnqktr.bqknqi.qc.rz
y.pryfhsqJ.rkptuhzqTqvpwqenr.qjfrtnfwqknq unvqko.qr.pwnuqnyqkotw
enunknunfwqjrztulqkopuqpyrptbsqTqkfru.bqipj qpvpzqyrneqko.qapr qpub
wkrfj qtuknqApr qRnpb,qtuk.ubtulqknqw trkqko.qapr ,qv.ukqphnulqfub.r
ko.qwo.hk.rqnyqko.qk.rrpj.w,qpubqlnkqpqct.vqnyqkotwqwkpktnuprz,qonvhtul
Eprktpuqyrneqko.qbtr.jktnuqnyqWksqGnou’wqVnnbsqPqjnfah.qnyqofubr.b
zprbwqnfkqnyqIp .rqWkr..kqTqo.prbqpqz.hatulqjonrfw,qpubqwpv,qytrwkqp
bnlqvtkoqpqat.j.qnyqafkr.wj.ukqr.bqe.pkqtuqotwqgpvwqjnetulqo.pbhnul
knvprbwqe.,qpubqko.uqpqapj qnyqwkprctulqenulr.hwqtuqafrwftkqnyqotesqO.
epb.qpqvtb.qjfrc.qknqpcntbqe.,qpwqkonfloqo.qy.pr.bqTqetlokqarnc.qp
yr.woqjnea.ktknrsqPwqko.qz.hatulqbt.bqpvpzqbnvuqko.qwth.ukqrnpb,qko.
vpthtulqwnfubqnyq“Fhhp,qfhhp,qfhhp,qfhhp,”qr.pww.rk.bqtkw.hys

Tqjpe.qfanuqko.qvr.j .bqopubhtul-epjotu.qophyvpzqknqWksqGnou’wqVnnb
wkpktnusqPkqytrwkqTqkonflokqpqonfw.qopbqyphh.uqpjrnwwqko.qrnpbsqTkqvpw
nuhzqpwqTqjhpei.r.bqpenulqko.qrftuwqkopkqTqwpv,qvtkoqpqwkprk,qkotw
e.joputjphqWpewnuqhztul,qvtkoqtkwqk.ukpjh.wqi.ukqpubqwepwo.bqpub
kvtwk.b,qpenulqko.qrftuwqtkqopbqepb.sqKo.qynr.aprkqvpwqwopkk.r.bsqTk
w..e.bqpwqtyqtkqopbqbrtc.uqihtubhzqwkrptlokqpkqko.qonfw.,qpubqopbqi..u
nc.rvo.he.bqtuqtkwqnc.rkornvsqTkqw..e.bqknqe.qko.uqkopkqkotwqetlokqopc.
opaa.u.bqizqpqopubhtul-epjotu.q.wjpatulqyrneqko.qlftbpuj.qnyqtkw
EprktpusqTqjnfhbqunkqjhpei.rqpenulqko.qrftuwqknqw..qtk,qpubqko.
kvthtlokqvpwqunvqwnqyprqpbcpuj.bqkopkqko.qihnnbqvtkoqvotjoqtkwqw.pkqvpw
we.pr.b,qpubqko.qlupv.bqlrtwkh.qnyqko.qEprktpuqkopkqko.qbnlwqopbqh.yk,
v.r.qtuctwtih.qknqe.s

Vnub.rtulqwkthhqenr.qpkqphhqkopkqTqopbqw..u,qTqafwo.bqnuqknvprbw
Arternw.qOthhsqYprqpvpz,qkornfloqpqlpaqtuqko.qkr..w,qTqwpvqpqw.jnub
Eprktpu,qpwqenktnuh.wwqpwqko.qytrwk,qwkpubtulqtuqko.qapr qknvprbwqko.
DnnhnltjphqLprb.uw,qpubqwth.uksqPqhtkkh.qi.znubqko.qrftuwqpinfkqko.
wepwo.bqopubhtul-epjotu.qTqjpe.qfanuqko.qr.bqv..bqplptu,qpubqynfubqko.
R.l.uk’wqJpuph,qpqwanulzqepwwqnyqbpr -r.bqc.l.kpktnus

PwqTqjrnww.bqko.qirtbl.,qko.qwnfubqnyq“Fhhp,qfhhp,qfhhp,qfhhp,”qj.pw.bs
Tkqvpw,qpwqtkqv.r.,qjfkqnyysqKo.qwth.uj.qjpe.qht .qpqkofub.rjhpas

Ko.qbfw zqonfw.wqpinfkqe.qwknnbqyptukqpubqkphhqpubqbte;qko.qkr..w
knvprbwqko.qapr qv.r.qlrnvtulqihpj sqPhhqpinfkqe.qko.qr.bqv..b
jhpei.r.bqpenulqko.qrftuw,qvrtkotulqknql.kqpinc.qe.qtuqko.qbteu.wws
Utlok,qko.qenko.rqnyqy.prqpubqezwk.rz,qvpwqjnetulqfanuqe.sqIfkqvoth.
kopkqcntj.qwnfub.bqko.qwnhtkfb.,qko.qb.wnhpktnu,qopbqi..uq.ubfrpih.;qiz
ctrkf.qnyqtkqHnubnuqopbqwkthhqw..e.bqphtc.,qpubqko.qw.uw.qnyqhty.qpinfk
e.qopbqfao.hbqe.sqKo.uqwfbb.uhzqpqjopul.,qko.qapwwtulqnyqwne.kotul—T
 u.vqunkqvopk—pubqko.uqpqwkthhu.wwqkopkqjnfhbqi.qy.hksqUnkotulqifkqkotw
lpfukqxft.ks

Hnubnuqpinfkqe.qlpd.bqpkqe.qwa.jkrphhzsqKo.qvtubnvwqtuqko.qvotk.qonfw.w
v.r.qht .qko.q.z.qwnj .kwqnyqw fhhwsqPinfkqe.qezqtepltupktnuqynfubqp
konfwpubquntw.h.wwq.u.et.wqenctulsqK.rrnrqw.td.bqe.,qpqonrrnrqnyqez
k.e.rtkzsqTuqyrnukqnyqe.qko.qrnpbqi.jpe.qatkjozqihpj qpwqkonfloqtkqvpw
kprr.b,qpubqTqwpvqpqjnuknrk.bqwopa.qhztulqpjrnwwqko.qapkovpzsqTqjnfhb
unkqirtulqezw.hyqknqlnqnusqTqkfru.bqbnvuqWksqGnou’wqVnnbqRnpb,qpubqrpu
o.pbhnulqyrneqkotwqfu.ubfrpih.qwkthhu.wwqknvprbwq thifrusqTqotbqyrne
ko.qutlokqpubqko.qwth.uj.,qfukthqhnulqpyk.rqetbutlok,qtuqpqjpie.u’w
wo.hk.rqtuqOprrnvqRnpbsqIfkqi.ynr.qko.qbpvuqezqjnfrpl.qr.kfru.b,qpub
voth.qko.qwkprwqv.r.qwkthhqtuqko.qw zqTqkfru.bqnuj.qenr.qknvprbw
R.l.uk’wqApr sqTqetww.bqezqvpzqpenulqko.qwkr..kw,qpubqar.w.ukhzqwpv
bnvuqpqhnulqpc.uf.,qtuqko.qophy-htlokqnyqko.q.prhzqbpvu,qko.qjfrc.qny
Arternw.qOthhsqNuqko.qwfeetk,qknv.rtulqfaqknqko.qypbtulqwkprw,qvpwqp
kotrbqEprktpu,q.r.jkqpubqenktnuh.wwqht .qko.qnko.rws

Puqtuwpu.qr.wnhc.qanww.ww.bqe.sqTqvnfhbqbt.qpubq.ubqtksqPubqTqvnfhb
wpc.qezw.hyq.c.uqko.qkrnfih.qnyq thhtulqezw.hysqTqeprjo.bqnuqr.j h.wwhz
knvprbwqkotwqKtkpu,qpubqko.u,qpwqTqbr.vqu.pr.rqpubqko.qhtlokqlr.v,qT
wpvqkopkqpqefhktkfb.qnyqihpj qitrbwqvpwqjtrjhtulqpubqjhfwk.rtulqpinfk
ko.qonnbsqPkqkopkqezqo.prkqlpc.qpqinfub,qpubqTqi.lpuqrfuutulqphnulqko.
rnpbs

Tqofrrt.bqkornfloqko.qr.bqv..bqkopkqjon .bqWksq.befub’wqK.rrpj.q(T
vpb.bqir.pwk-otloqpjrnwwqpqknrr.ukqnyqvpk.rqkopkqvpwqrfwotulqbnvuqyrne
ko.qvpk.rvnr wqknvprbwqko.qPhi.rkqRnpb),qpubq.e.rl.bqfanuqko.qlrpww
i.ynr.qko.qrtwtulqnyqko.qwfusqLr.pkqenfubwqopbqi..uqo.pa.bqpinfkqko.
jr.wkqnyqko.qothh,qep tulqpqofl.qr.bnfikqnyqtk—tkqvpwqko.qytuphqpub
hprl.wkqahpj.qko.qEprktpuwqopbqepb.—pubqyrneqi.otubqko.w.qo.pawqko.r.
rnw.qpqkotuqwen .qplptuwkqko.qw zsqPlptuwkqko.qw zqhtu.qpuq.pl.rqbnl
rpuqpubqbtwpaa.pr.bsqKo.qkonflokqkopkqopbqyhpwo.bqtuknqezqetubqlr.v
r.ph,qlr.vqjr.btih.sqTqy.hkqunqy.pr,qnuhzqpqvthb,qkr.eihtulq.mfhkpktnu,
pwqTqrpuqfaqko.qothhqknvprbwqko.qenktnuh.wwqenuwk.rsqNfkqnyqko.qonnb
ofulqhpu qwor.bwqnyqirnvu,qpkqvotjoqko.qofulrzqitrbwqa.j .bqpubqknr.s

Tuqpunko.rqene.ukqTqopbqwjrpeih.bqfaqko.q.prko.uqrpeaprkqpubqwknnbqfanu
tkwqjr.wk,qpubqko.qtuk.rtnrqnyqko.qr.bnfikqvpwqi.hnvqe.sqPqetlokzqwapj.
tkqvpw,qvtkoqltlpuktjqepjotu.wqo.r.qpubqko.r.qvtkotuqtk,qofl.qenfubwqny
epk.rtphqpubqwkrpul.qwo.hk.rqahpj.wsqPubqwjpkk.r.bqpinfkqtk,qwne.qtu
ko.trqnc.rkfru.bqvpr-epjotu.w,qwne.qtuqko.qunvqrtltbqopubhtul-epjotu.w,
pubqpqbnd.uqnyqko.eqwkpr qpubqwth.ukqpubqhptbqtuqpqrnv,qv.r.qko.
Eprktpuw—_b.pb_!—whptuqizqko.qafkr.ypjktc.qpubqbtw.pw.qipjk.rtpqplptuwk
votjoqko.trqwzwk.ewqv.r.qfuar.apr.b;qwhptuqpwqko.qr.bqv..bqvpwqi.tul
whptu;qwhptu,qpyk.rqphhqepu’wqb.ctj.wqopbqypth.b,qizqko.qofeih.wk
kotulwqkopkqLnb,qtuqotwqvtwbne,qopwqafkqfanuqkotwq.prkos

Ynrqwnqtkqopbqjne.qpinfk,qpwqtub..bqTqpubqepuzqe.uqetlokqopc.qynr.w..u
opbqunkqk.rrnrqpubqbtwpwk.rqihtub.bqnfrqetubwsqKo.w.ql.rewqnyqbtw.pw.
opc.qkp .uqknhhqnyqofeputkzqwtuj.qko.qi.ltuutulqnyqkotulw—kp .uqknhhqny
nfrqar.ofepuqpuj.wknrwqwtuj.qhty.qi.lpuqo.r.sqIfkqizqctrkf.qnyqkotw
upkfrphqw.h.jktnuqnyqnfrq tubqv.qopc.qb.c.hna.bqr.wtwktulqanv.r;qknqun
l.rewqbnqv.qwfjjfeiqvtkonfkqpqwkrfllh.,qpubqknqepuz—konw.qkopkqjpfw.
afkr.ypjktnuqtuqb.pbqepkk.r,qynrqtuwkpuj.—nfrqhtctulqyrpe.wqpr.
phknl.ko.rqteefu.sqIfkqko.r.qpr.qunqipjk.rtpqtuqEprw,qpubqbtr.jkhz
ko.w.qtucpb.rwqprrtc.b,qbtr.jkhzqko.zqbrpu qpubqy.b,qnfrqetjrnwjnatj
phht.wqi.lpuqknqvnr qko.trqnc.rkornvsqPhr.pbzqvo.uqTqvpkjo.bqko.eqko.z
v.r.qtrr.cnjpihzqbnne.b,qbztulqpubqrnkktulq.c.uqpwqko.zqv.ukqknqpub
yrnsqTkqvpwqtu.ctkpih.sqIzqko.qknhhqnyqpqithhtnuqb.pkowqepuqopwqinflok
otwqitrkortlokqnyqko.q.prko,qpubqtkqtwqotwqplptuwkqphhqjne.rw;qtkqvnfhb
wkthhqi.qotwqv.r.qko.qEprktpuwqk.uqkte.wqpwqetlokzqpwqko.zqpr.sqYnr
u.tko.rqbnqe.uqhtc.qunrqbt.qtuqcptus

O.r.qpubqko.r.qko.zqv.r.qwjpkk.r.b,qu.prhzqytykzqphknl.ko.r,qtuqkopk
lr.pkqlfhyqko.zqopbqepb.,qnc.rkp .uqizqpqb.pkoqkopkqefwkqopc.qw..e.bqkn
ko.eqpwqtujnear.o.uwtih.qpwqpuzqb.pkoqjnfhbqi.sqKnqe.qphwnqpkqkopkqkte.
kotwqb.pkoqvpwqtujnear.o.uwtih.sqPhhqTq u.vqvpwqkopkqko.w.qkotulwqkopk
opbqi..uqphtc.qpubqwnqk.rrtih.qknqe.uqv.r.qb.pbsqYnrqpqene.ukqT
i.ht.c.bqkopkqko.qb.wkrfjktnuqnyqW.uupjo.rtiqopbqi..uqr.a.pk.b,qkopk
Lnbqopbqr.a.uk.b,qkopkqko.qPul.hqnyqB.pkoqopbqwhptuqko.eqtuqko.qutloks

Tqwknnbqwkprtulqtuknqko.qatk,qpubqezqo.prkqhtlok.u.bqlhnrtnfwhz,q.c.u
pwqko.qrtwtulqwfuqwkrfj qko.qvnrhbqknqytr.qpinfkqe.qvtkoqotwqrpzwsqKo.
atkqvpwqwkthhqtuqbpr u.ww;qko.qetlokzq.ultu.w,qwnqlr.pkqpubqvnub.ryfh
tuqko.trqanv.rqpubqjneah.mtkz,qwnqfu.prkohzqtuqko.trqknrkfnfwqynrew,
rnw.qv.trbqpubqcplf.qpubqwkrpul.qnfkqnyqko.qwopbnvwqknvprbwqko.qhtloks
Pqefhktkfb.qnyqbnlw,qTqjnfhbqo.pr,qynflokqnc.rqko.qinbt.wqkopkqhpz
bpr hzqtuqko.qb.akoqnyqko.qatk,qyprqi.hnvqe.sqPjrnwwqko.qatkqnuqtkw
yprko.rqhta,qyhpkqpubqcpwkqpubqwkrpul.,qhpzqko.qlr.pkqyhztul-epjotu.
vtkoqvotjoqko.zqopbqi..uq.ma.rte.uktulqfanuqnfrqb.uw.rqpkenwao.r.qvo.u
b.jpzqpubqb.pkoqprr.wk.bqko.esqB.pkoqopbqjne.qunkqpqbpzqknnqwnnusqPk
ko.qwnfubqnyqpqjpvtulqnc.ro.pbqTqhnn .bqfaqpkqko.qofl.qytloktul-epjotu.
kopkqvnfhbqytlokqunqenr.qynrq.c.r,qpkqko.qkpkk.r.bqr.bqwor.bwqnyqyh.wo
kopkqbrtaa.bqbnvuqfanuqko.qnc.rkfru.bqw.pkwqnuqko.qwfeetkqnyqArternw.
Othhs

Tqkfru.bqpubqhnn .bqbnvuqko.qwhna.qnyqko.qothhqknqvo.r.,q.uophn.bqunv
tuqitrbw,qwknnbqkonw.qnko.rqkvnqEprktpuwqkopkqTqopbqw..uqnc.rutlok,
gfwkqpwqb.pkoqopbqnc.rkp .uqko.esqKo.qnu.qopbqbt.b,q.c.uqpwqtkqopbqi..u
jrztulqknqtkwqjneaputnuw;qa.ropawqtkqvpwqko.qhpwkqknqbt.,qpubqtkwqcntj.
opbqlnu.qnuqa.ra.kfphhzqfukthqko.qynrj.qnyqtkwqepjotu.rzqvpwq.mopfwk.bs
Ko.zqlhtkk.r.bqunv,qopreh.wwqkrtanbqknv.rwqnyqwotutulqe.kph,qtuqko.
irtloku.wwqnyqko.qrtwtulqwfus

Phhqpinfkqko.qatk,qpubqwpc.bqpwqizqpqetrpjh.qyrneq.c.rhpwktul
b.wkrfjktnu,qwkr.kjo.bqko.qlr.pkqEnko.rqnyqJtkt.wsqKonw.qvonqopc.qnuhz
w..uqHnubnuqc.th.bqtuqo.rqwneir.qrni.wqnyqwen .qjpuqwjprj.hzqtepltu.
ko.qup .bqjh.pru.wwqpubqi.pfkzqnyqko.qwth.ukqvthb.ru.wwqnyqonfw.ws

.pwkvprb,qnc.rqko.qihpj .u.bqrftuwqnyqko.qPhi.rkqK.rrpj.qpubqko.
wahtuk.r.bqwatr.qnyqko.qjofrjo,qko.qwfuqihpd.bqbpddhtulqtuqpqjh.prqw z,
pubqo.r.qpubqko.r.qwne.qypj.kqtuqko.qlr.pkqvthb.ru.wwqnyqrnnywqjpflok
ko.qhtlokqpubqlhpr.bqvtkoqpqvotk.qtuk.uwtkzs

Unrkovprbqv.r.q thifruqpubqOpeawk.b,qihf.qpubqjrnvb.bqvtkoqonfw.w;
v.wkvprbqko.qlr.pkqjtkzqvpwqbtee.b;qpubqwnfkovprb,qi.znubqko.qEprktpuw,
ko.qlr..uqvpc.wqnyqR.l.uk’wqApr ,qko.qHpulopeqOnk.h,qko.qbne.qnyqko.
Phi.rkqOphh,qko.qTea.rtphqTuwktkfk.,qpubqko.qltpukqepuwtnuwqnyqko.
IrneaknuqRnpbqjpe.qnfkqjh.prqpubqhtkkh.qtuqko.qwfurtw.,qko.qgpll.b
rftuwqnyqV.wketuwk.rqrtwtulqopdthzqi.znubsqYprqpvpzqpubqihf.qv.r.qko.
Wfrr.zqothhw,qpubqko.qknv.rwqnyqko.qJrzwkphqAphpj.qlhtkk.r.bqht .qkvn
wthc.rqrnbwsqKo.qbne.qnyqWksqApfh’wqvpwqbpr qplptuwkqko.qwfurtw.,qpub
tugfr.b,qTqwpvqynrqko.qytrwkqkte.,qizqpqofl.qlpatulqjpctkzqnuqtkw
v.wk.ruqwtb.s

PubqpwqTqhnn .bqpkqkotwqvtb.q.mapuw.qnyqonfw.wqpubqypjknrt.wqpub
jofrjo.w,qwth.ukqpubqpipubnu.b;qpwqTqkonflokqnyqko.qefhktkfbtunfwqona.w
pubq.yynrkw,qko.qtuufe.rpih.qonwkwqnyqhtc.wqkopkqopbqlnu.qknqifthbqkotw
ofepuqr..y,qpubqnyqko.qwvtykqpubqrfkoh.wwqb.wkrfjktnuqkopkqopbqoful
nc.rqtkqphh;qvo.uqTqr.phtw.bqkopkqko.qwopbnvqopbqi..uqrnhh.bqipj ,qpub
kopkqe.uqetlokqwkthhqhtc.qtuqko.qwkr..kw,qpubqkotwqb.prqcpwkqb.pbqjtkz
nyqetu.qi.qnuj.qenr.qphtc.qpubqanv.ryfh,qTqy.hkqpqvpc.qnyq.enktnuqkopk
vpwqu.prqp tuqknqk.prws

Ko.qknre.ukqvpwqnc.rsq.c.uqkopkqbpzqko.qo.phtulqvnfhbqi.ltusqKo.
wfrctcnrwqnyqko.qa.nah.qwjpkk.r.bqnc.rqko.qjnfukrz—h.pb.rh.ww,qhpvh.ww,
ynnbh.ww,qht .qwo..aqvtkonfkqpqwo.ao.rb—ko.qkonfwpubwqvonqopbqyh.bqiz
w.p,qvnfhbqi.ltuqknqr.kfru;qko.qafhw.qnyqhty.,qlrnvtulqwkrnul.rqpub
wkrnul.r,qvnfhbqi.pkqplptuqtuqko.q.eakzqwkr..kwqpubqanfrqpjrnwwqko.
cpjpukqwxfpr.wsqVopk.c.rqb.wkrfjktnuqvpwqbnu.,qko.qopubqnyqko.
b.wkrnz.rqvpwqwkpz.bsqPhhqko.qlpfukqvr.j w,qko.qihpj .u.bqw .h.knuwqny
onfw.wqkopkqwkpr.bqwnqbtwephhzqpkqko.qwfuhtkqlrpwwqnyqko.qothh,qvnfhb
ar.w.ukhzqi.q.jontulqvtkoqko.qopee.rwqnyqko.qr.wknr.rwqpubqrtultulqvtko
ko.qkpaatulqnyqko.trqkrnv.hwsqPkqko.qkonflokqTq.mk.ub.bqezqopubw
knvprbwqko.qw zqpubqi.lpuqkopu tulqLnbsqTuqpqz.pr,qkonflokqT—tuqpqz.prs
sqsqs

Vtkoqnc.rvo.hetulqynrj.qjpe.qko.qkonflokqnyqezw.hy,qnyqezqvty.,qpubqko.
nhbqhty.qnyqona.qpubqk.ub.rqo.hayfhu.wwqkopkqopbqj.pw.bqynrq.c.rs


TMs

VR.J PL.s

Pubqunvqjne.wqko.qwkrpul.wkqkotulqtuqezqwknrzsqZ.k,qa.ropaw,qtkqtwqunk
phknl.ko.rqwkrpul.sqTqr.e.ei.r,qjh.prhzqpubqjnhbhzqpubqctctbhz,qphh
kopkqTqbtbqkopkqbpzqfukthqko.qkte.qkopkqTqwknnbqv..atulqpubqarptwtul
Lnbqfanuqko.qwfeetkqnyqArternw.qOthhsqPubqko.uqTqynrl.ks

Nyqko.qu.mkqkor..qbpzwqTq unvqunkotulsqTqopc.qh.pru.bqwtuj.qkopk,qwn
yprqyrneqezqi.tulqko.qytrwkqbtwjnc.r.rqnyqko.qEprktpuqnc.rkornv,
w.c.rphqwfjoqvpub.r.rwqpwqezw.hyqopbqphr.pbzqbtwjnc.r.bqkotwqnuqko.
ar.ctnfwqutloksqNu.qepu—ko.qytrwk—opbqlnu.qknqWksqEprktu’w-h.-Lrpub,
pub,qvoth.qTqwo.hk.r.bqtuqko.qjpie.u’wqofk,qopbqjnukrtc.bqknqk.h.lrpao
knqAprtwsqKo.uj.qko.qgnzyfhqu.vwqopbqyhpwo.bqphhqnc.rqko.qvnrhb;qp
konfwpubqjtkt.w,qjothh.bqizqlopwkhzqpaar.o.uwtnuw,qwfbb.uhzqyhpwo.b
tuknqyrpuktjqthhfetupktnuw;qko.zq u.vqnyqtkqtuqBfihtu,q.btuifrlo,
Epujo.wk.r,qItretulope,qpkqko.qkte.qvo.uqTqwknnbqfanuqko.qc.rl.qnyqko.
atksqPhr.pbzqe.u,qv..atulqvtkoqgnz,qpwqTqopc.qo.prb,qwonfktulqpub
wkpztulqko.trqvnr qknqwop .qopubwqpubqwonfk,qv.r.qep tulqfaqkrptuw,
.c.uqpwqu.prqpwqJr.v.,qknqb.wj.ubqfanuqHnubnusqKo.qjofrjoqi.hhwqkopk
opbqj.pw.bqpqynrkutlokqwtuj.qwfbb.uhzqjpflokqko.qu.vw,qfukthqphh
.ulhpubqvpwqi.hh-rtultulsqE.uqnuqjzjh.w,qh.pu-ypj.b,qfu .eak,qwjnrjo.b
phnulq.c.rzqjnfukrzqhpu.qwonfktulqnyqfuona.bqb.htc.rpuj.,qwonfktulqkn
lpfuk,qwkprtulqytlfr.wqnyqb.waptrsqPubqynrqko.qynnb!qPjrnwwqko.
Jopuu.h,qpjrnwwqko.qTrtwoqW.p,qpjrnwwqko.qPkhpuktj,qjnru,qir.pb,qpub
e.pkqv.r.qk.prtulqknqnfrqr.ht.ysqPhhqko.qwotaatulqtuqko.qvnrhbqw..e.b
lntulqHnubnuvprbqtuqkonw.qbpzwsqIfkqnyqphhqkotwqTqopc.qunqe.enrzsqT
brtyk.b—pqb.e.uk.bqepusqTqynfubqezw.hyqtuqpqonfw.qnyq tubhzqa.nah.,qvon
opbqynfubqe.qnuqko.qkotrbqbpzqvpub.rtul,qv..atul,qpubqrpctulqkornflo
ko.qwkr..kwqnyqWksqGnou’wqVnnbsqKo.zqopc.qknhbqe.qwtuj.qkopkqTqvpw
wtultulqwne.qtuwpu.qbnll.r.hqpinfkq“Ko.qHpwkqEpuqH.ykqPhtc.!qOfrrpo!
Ko.qHpwkqEpuqH.ykqPhtc.!”qKrnfih.bqpwqko.zqv.r.qvtkoqko.trqnvuqpyyptrw,
ko.w.qa.nah.,qvonw.qupe.,qefjoqpwqTqvnfhbqht .qknq.mar.wwqezqlrpktkfb.
knqko.e,qTqepzqunkq.c.uqltc.qo.r.,qu.c.rko.h.wwqjfei.r.bqko.ew.hc.w
vtkoqe.,qwo.hk.r.bqe.,qpubqarnk.jk.bqe.qyrneqezw.hysqPaapr.ukhzqko.z
opbqh.pru.bqwne.kotulqnyqezqwknrzqyrneqe.qbfrtulqko.qbpzwqnyqezqhpaw.s

C.rzql.ukhz,qvo.uqezqetubqvpwqpwwfr.bqplptu,qbtbqko.zqir.p qknqe.qvopk
ko.zqopbqh.pru.bqnyqko.qypk.qnyqH.pko.ro.pbsqKvnqbpzwqpyk.rqTqvpw
teartwnu.bqtkqopbqi..uqb.wkrnz.b,qvtkoq.c.rzqwnfhqtuqtk,qizqpqEprktpus
O.qopbqwv.akqtkqnfkqnyq.mtwk.uj.,qpwqtkqw..e.b,qvtkonfkqpuz
arncnjpktnu,qpwqpqinzqetlokqjrfwoqpuqpukqothh,qtuqko.qe.r.qvpuknuu.ww
nyqanv.rs

Tqvpwqpqhnu.hzqepu,qpubqko.zqv.r.qc.rzq tubqknqe.sqTqvpwqpqhnu.hzqepu
pubqpqwpbqnu.,qpubqko.zqinr.qvtkoqe.sqTqr.eptu.bqvtkoqko.eqynfrqbpzw
pyk.rqezqr.jnc.rzsqPhhqkopkqkte.qTqy.hkqpqcplf.,qpqlrnvtulqjrpctulqkn
hnn qnuj.qenr.qnuqvopk.c.rqr.eptu.bqnyqko.qhtkkh.qhty.qkopkqw..e.bqwn
opaazqpubqirtlokqtuqezqapwksqTkqvpwqpqe.r.qona.h.wwqb.wtr.qknqy.pwk
fanuqezqetw.rzsqKo.zqbtwwfpb.bqe.sqKo.zqbtbqphhqko.zqjnfhbqknqbtc.rkqe.
yrneqkotwqenritbtkzsqIfkqpkqhpwkqTqjnfhbqr.wtwkqko.qteafhw.qunqhnul.r,
pub,qarnetwtulqyptkoyfhhzqknqr.kfruqknqko.e,qpubqaprktul,qpwqTqvthh
jnuy.ww,qyrneqko.w.qynfr-bpzqyrt.ubwqvtkoqk.prw,qTqv.ukqnfkqplptuqtukn
ko.qwkr..kwqkopkqopbqhpk.hzqi..uqwnqbpr qpubqwkrpul.qpubq.eakzs

Phr.pbzqko.zqv.r.qifwzqvtkoqr.kfrutulqa.nah.;qtuqahpj.wq.c.uqko.r.qv.r.
wonawqna.u,qpubqTqwpvqpqbrtu tulqynfukptuqrfuutulqvpk.rs

Tqr.e.ei.rqonvqenj tulhzqirtlokqko.qbpzqw..e.bqpwqTqv.ukqipj qnuqez
e.hpujonhzqathlrtepl.qknqko.qhtkkh.qonfw.qpkqVn tul,qonvqifwzqko.
wkr..kwqpubqctctbqko.qenctulqhty.qpinfkqe.sqWnqepuzqa.nah.qv.r.qpirnpb
.c.rzvo.r.,qifwt.bqtuqpqkonfwpubqpjktctkt.w,qkopkqtkqw..e.bqtujr.btih.
kopkqpuzqlr.pkqarnanrktnuqnyqko.qanafhpktnuqjnfhbqopc.qi..uqwhptusqIfk
ko.uqTqunktj.bqonvqz.hhnvqv.r.qko.qw tuwqnyqko.qa.nah.qTqe.k,qonv
wopllzqko.qoptrqnyqko.qe.u,qonvqhprl.qpubqirtlokqko.trq.z.w,qpubqkopk
.c.rzqnko.rqepuqwkthhqvnr.qotwqbtrkzqrplwsqKo.trqypj.wqw..e.bqphhqvtko
nu.qnyqkvnq.mar.wwtnuw—pqh.patulq.mfhkpktnuqpubq.u.rlzqnrqpqlrte
r.wnhfktnusqWpc.qynrqko.q.mar.wwtnuqnyqko.qypj.w,qHnubnuqw..e.bqpqjtkz
nyqkrpeawsqKo.qc.wkrt.wqv.r.qtubtwjrtetupk.hzqbtwkrtifktulqir.pbqw.uk
fwqizqko.qYr.ujoqlnc.rue.uksqKo.qrtiwqnyqko.qy.vqonrw.wqwonv.b
btwephhzsqOpllprbqwa.jtphqjnuwkpih.wqvtkoqvotk.qipbl.wqwknnbqpkqko.
jnru.rwqnyq.c.rzqwkr..ksqTqwpvqhtkkh.qnyqko.qetwjot.yqvrnflokqizqko.
EprktpuwqfukthqTqr.pjo.bqV.hhtulknuqWkr..k,qpubqko.r.qTqwpvqko.qr.b
v..bqjhpei.rtulqnc.rqko.qifkkr.ww.wqnyqVpk.rhnnqIrtbl.s

Pkqko.qjnru.rqnyqko.qirtbl.,qknn,qTqwpvqnu.qnyqko.qjneenuqjnukrpwkwqny
kopkqlrnk.wxf.qkte.—pqwo..kqnyqapa.rqyhpfuktulqplptuwkqpqkotj .kqnyqko.
r.bqv..b,qkrpuwytm.bqizqpqwktj qkopkq .akqtkqtuqahpj.sqTkqvpwqko.
ahpjprbqnyqko.qytrwkqu.vwapa.rqknqr.wfe.qafihtjpktnu—ko.q_BpthzqEpth_s
Tqinflokqpqjnazqynrqpqihpj .u.bqwothhtulqTqynfubqtuqezqanj .ksqEnwkqny
tkqvpwqtuqihpu ,qifkqko.qwnhtkprzqjneanwtknrqvonqbtbqko.qkotulqopb
pefw.bqotew.hyqizqep tulqpqlrnk.wxf.qwjo.e.qnyqpbc.rktw.e.ukqwk.r.nqnu
ko.qipj qapl.sqKo.qepkk.rqo.qartuk.bqvpwq.enktnuph;qko.qu.vw
nrlputwpktnuqopbqunkqpwqz.kqynfubqtkwqvpzqipj sqTqh.pru.bqunkotulqyr.wo
.mj.akqkopkqphr.pbzqtuqnu.qv.. qko.q.mpetupktnuqnyqko.qEprktpu
e.joputwewqopbqzt.hb.bqpwknutwotulqr.wfhkwsqPenulqnko.rqkotulw,qko.
prktjh.qpwwfr.bqe.qvopkqTqbtbqunkqi.ht.c.qpkqko.qkte.,qkopkqko.q“W.jr.k
nyqYhztul,”qvpwqbtwjnc.r.bsqPkqVpk.rhnnqTqynfubqko.qyr..qkrptuwqkopk
v.r.qkp tulqa.nah.qknqko.trqone.wsqKo.qytrwkqrfwoqvpwqphr.pbzqnc.rs
Ko.r.qv.r.qy.vqa.nah.qtuqko.qkrptu,qpubqTqvpwqtuqunqennbqynrqjpwfph
jnuc.rwpktnusqTqlnkqpqjneaprke.ukqknqezw.hy,qpubqwpkqvtkoqynhb.bqprew,
hnn tulqlr.zhzqpkqko.qwfuhtkqb.cpwkpktnuqkopkqyhnv.bqapwkqko.qvtubnvws
Pubqgfwkqnfkwtb.qko.qk.retufwqko.qkrptuqgnhk.bqnc.rqk.eanrprzqrpthw,
pubqnuq.tko.rqwtb.qnyqko.qrpthvpzqko.qonfw.wqv.r.qihpj .u.bqrftuwsqKn
JhpaopeqGfujktnuqko.qypj.qnyqHnubnuqvpwqlrtezqvtkoqanvb.rqnyqko.qIhpj 
Wen .,qtuqwatk.qnyqkvnqbpzwqnyqkofub.rwknrewqpubqrptu,qpubqpkqJhpaope
Gfujktnuqko.qhtu.qopbqi..uqvr.j .bqplptu;qko.r.qv.r.qofubr.bwqny
nfk-ny-vnr qjh.r wqpubqwonae.uqvnr tulqwtb.qizqwtb.qvtkoqko.qjfwkneprz
upcct.w,qpubqv.qv.r.qgnhk.bqnc.rqpqopwkzqr.hpztuls

Phhqbnvuqko.qhtu.qyrneqko.r.qko.qpwa.jkqnyqko.qjnfukrzqvpwqlpfukqpub
fuypethtpr;qVteih.bnuqaprktjfhprhzqopbqwfyy.r.bsqVphknu,qizqctrkf.qny
tkwqfuifru.bqatu.qvnnbw,qw..e.bqko.qh.pwkqofrkqnyqpuzqahpj.qphnulqko.
htu.sqKo.qVpubh.,qko.qEnh.,q.c.rzqhtkkh.qwkr.pe,qvpwqpqo.pa.bqepwwqny
r.bqv..b,qtuqpaa.prpuj.qi.kv..uqifkjo.r’wqe.pkqpubqatj h.bqjpiipl.sqKo.
Wfrr.zqatu.qvnnbwqv.r.qknnqbrz,qonv.c.r,qynrqko.qy.wknnuwqnyqko.qr.b
jhtei.rsqI.znubqVteih.bnu,qvtkotuqwtlokqnyqko.qhtu.,qtuqj.rkptuqufrw.rz
lrnfubw,qv.r.qko.qo.pa.bqepww.wqnyq.prkoqpinfkqko.qwtmkoqjzhtub.rsqP
ufei.rqnyqa.nah.qv.r.qwkpubtulqpinfkqtk,qpubqwne.qwpaa.rwqv.r.qifwzqtu
ko.qetbwkqnyqtksqNc.rqtkqyhpfuk.bqpqFutnuqGpj ,qyhpaatulqjo..ryfhhzqtu
ko.qenrutulqir..d.sqKo.qufrw.rzqlrnfubwqv.r.q.c.rzvo.r.qjrtewnuqvtko
ko.qv..b,qpqvtb.q.mapuw.qnyqhtctbqjnhnfrqjfkqvtkoqafrah.qwopbnvw,qpub
c.rzqaptuyfhqknqko.q.z.sqNu.’wqlpd.qv.ukqvtkoqtuytutk.qr.ht.yqyrneqko.
wjnrjo.bqlr.zwqpubqwfhh.uqr.bwqnyqko.qynr.lrnfubqknqko.qihf.-lr..u
wnyku.wwqnyqko.q.pwkvprbqothhws

Ko.qhtu.qnuqko.qHnubnuqwtb.qnyqVn tulqwkpktnuqvpwqwkthhqfub.rlntul
r.aptr,qwnqTqb.wj.ub.bqpkqIzyh..kqwkpktnuqpubqknn qko.qrnpbqknqEpzifrz,
apwkqko.qahpj.qvo.r.qTqpubqko.qprkthh.rzepuqopbqkph .bqknqko.qofwwprw,
pubqnuqizqko.qwankqvo.r.qko.qEprktpuqopbqpaa.pr.bqknqe.qtuqko.
kofub.rwknresqO.r.,qenc.bqizqjfrtnwtkz,qTqkfru.bqpwtb.qknqytub,qpenulqp
kpulh.qnyqr.bqyrnubw,qko.qvpra.bqpubqirn .uqbnlqjprkqvtkoqko.qvotk.u.b
inu.wqnyqko.qonrw.qwjpkk.r.bqpubqlupv.bsqYnrqpqkte.qTqwknnbqr.lprbtul
ko.w.qc.wktl.wsqsqsqs

Ko.uqTqr.kfru.bqkornfloqko.qatu.qvnnb,qu.j -otloqvtkoqr.bqv..bqo.r.qpub
ko.r.,qknqytubqko.qhpubhnrbqnyqko.qWankk.bqBnlqopbqphr.pbzqynfub
ifrtph,qpubqwnqjpe.qone.qapwkqko.qJnhh.l.qPrewsqPqepuqwkpubtulqpkqpu
na.uqjnkkpl.qbnnrqlr..k.bqe.qizqupe.qpwqTqapww.bs

Tqhnn .bqpkqezqonfw.qvtkoqpqxftj qyhpwoqnyqona.qkopkqypb.bqtee.btpk.hzs
Ko.qbnnrqopbqi..uqynrj.b;qtkqvpwqfuypwkqpubqvpwqna.utulqwhnvhzqpwqT
paarnpjo.bs

Tkqwhpee.bqplptusqKo.qjfrkptuwqnyqezqwkfbzqyhfkk.r.bqnfkqnyqko.qna.u
vtubnvqyrneqvotjoqTqpubqko.qprkthh.rzepuqopbqvpkjo.bqko.qbpvusqUnqnu.
opbqjhnw.bqtkqwtuj.sqKo.qwepwo.bqifwo.wqv.r.qgfwkqpwqTqopbqh.ykqko.e
u.prhzqynfrqv.. wqplnsqTqwkfeih.bqtuknqko.qophh,qpubqko.qonfw.qy.hk
.eakzsqKo.qwkptrqjpra.kqvpwqrfyyh.bqpubqbtwjnhnfr.bqvo.r.qTqopb
jrnfjo.b,qwnp .bqknqko.qw tuqyrneqko.qkofub.rwknreqko.qutlokqnyqko.
jpkpwkrnao.sqNfrqefbbzqynnkwk.awqTqwpvqwkthhqv.ukqfaqko.qwkptrws

Tqynhhnv.bqko.eqknqezqwkfbz,qpubqynfubqhztulqnuqezqvrtktul-kpih.qwkthh,
vtkoqko.qw.h.utk.qapa.rqv.tlokqfanuqtk,qko.qwo..kqnyqvnr qTqopbqh.ykqnu
ko.qpyk.runnuqnyqko.qna.utulqnyqko.qjzhtub.rsqYnrqpqwapj.qTqwknnb
r.pbtulqnc.rqezqpipubnu.bqprlfe.ukwsqTkqvpwqpqapa.rqnuqko.qarnipih.
b.c.hnae.ukqnyqEnrphqTb.pwqvtkoqko.qb.c.hnae.ukqnyqko.qjtcthtwtul
arnj.ww;qpubqko.qhpwkqw.uk.uj.qvpwqko.qna.utulqnyqpqarnao.jz:q“Tuqpinfk
kvnqofubr.bqz.prw,”qTqopbqvrtkk.u,q“v.qepzq.ma.jk——”qKo.qw.uk.uj.q.ub.b
pirfakhzsqTqr.e.ei.r.bqezqtupithtkzqknqytmqezqetubqkopkqenrutul,
wjprj.hzqpqenukoqlnu.qiz,qpubqonvqTqopbqirn .uqnyyqknql.kqezq_Bpthz
Jornutjh._qyrneqko.qu.vwinzsqTqr.e.ei.r.bqonvqTqv.ukqbnvuqknqko.qlprb.u
lpk.qpwqo.qjpe.qphnul,qpubqonvqTqopbqhtwk.u.bqknqotwqnbbqwknrzqnyq“E.u
yrneqEprws”

Tqjpe.qbnvuqpubqv.ukqtuknqko.qbtutulqrnnesqKo.r.qv.r.qko.qefkknuqpub
ko.qir.pb,qinkoqyprqlnu.qunvqtuqb.jpz,qpubqpqi..rqinkkh.qnc.rkfru.b,
gfwkqpwqTqpubqko.qprkthh.rzepuqopbqh.ykqko.esqEzqone.qvpwqb.wnhpk.sqT
a.rj.tc.bqko.qynhhzqnyqko.qyptukqona.qTqopbqjo.rtwo.bqwnqhnulsqPubqko.u
pqwkrpul.qkotulqnjjfrr.bsq“Tkqtwqunqfw.,”qwptbqpqcntj.sq“Ko.qonfw.qtw
b.w.rk.bsqUnqnu.qopwqi..uqo.r.qko.w.qk.uqbpzwsqBnqunkqwkpzqo.r.qkn
knre.ukqznfrw.hysqUnqnu.q.wjpa.bqifkqznfs”

Tqvpwqwkprkh.bsqOpbqTqwan .uqezqkonflokqphnfb?qTqkfru.b,qpubqko.qYr.ujo
vtubnvqvpwqna.uqi.otubqe.sqTqepb.qpqwk.aqknqtk,qpubqwknnbqhnn tulqnfks

Pubqko.r.,qpepd.bqpubqpyrptb,q.c.uqpwqTqwknnbqpepd.bqpubqpyrptb,qv.r.
ezqjnfwtuqpubqezqvty.—ezqvty.qvotk.qpubqk.prh.wwsqWo.qlpc.qpqyptukqjrzs

“Tqjpe.,”qwo.qwptbsq“Tq u.v— u.v——”

Wo.qafkqo.rqopubqknqo.rqkornpk—wvpz.bsqTqepb.qpqwk.aqynrvprb,qpub
jpflokqo.rqtuqezqprews


Ms

KO.q.ATHNLF.s

Tqjpuunkqifkqr.lr.k,qunvqkopkqTqpeqjnujhfbtulqezqwknrz,qonvqhtkkh.qTqpe
pih.qknqjnukrtifk.qknqko.qbtwjfwwtnuqnyqko.qepuzqb.ipkpih.qxf.wktnuw
votjoqpr.qwkthhqfuw.kkh.bsqTuqnu.qr.wa.jkqTqwophhqj.rkptuhzqarncn .
jrtktjtwesqEzqaprktjfhprqarnctuj.qtwqwa.jfhpktc.qaothnwnaozsqEz
 unvh.bl.qnyqjneaprpktc.qaozwtnhnlzqtwqjnuytu.bqknqpqinn qnrqkvn,qifk
tkqw..ewqknqe.qkopkqJprc.r’wqwfll.wktnuwqpwqknqko.qr.pwnuqnyqko.qrpatb
b.pkoqnyqko.qEprktpuwqtwqwnqarnipih.qpwqknqi.qr.lprb.bqphenwkqpwqp
arnc.uqjnujhfwtnusqTqopc.qpwwfe.bqkopkqtuqko.qinbzqnyqezquprrpktc.s

Pkqpuzqrpk.,qtuqphhqko.qinbt.wqnyqko.qEprktpuwqkopkqv.r.q.mpetu.bqpyk.r
ko.qvpr,qunqipjk.rtpq.mj.akqkonw.qphr.pbzq unvuqpwqk.rr.wkrtphqwa.jt.w
v.r.qynfubsqKopkqko.zqbtbqunkqifrzqpuzqnyqko.trqb.pb,qpubqko.qr.j h.ww
whpflok.rqko.zqa.ra.krpk.b,qantukqphwnqknqpuq.uktr.qtlunrpuj.qnyqko.
afkr.ypjktc.qarnj.wwsqIfkqarnipih.qpwqkotwqw..ew,qtkqtwqizqunqe.puwqp
arnc.uqjnujhfwtnus

U.tko.rqtwqko.qjneanwtktnuqnyqko.qIhpj qWen .q unvu,qvotjoqko.qEprktpuw
fw.bqvtkoqwfjoqb.pbhzq.yy.jk,qpubqko.ql.u.rpknrqnyqko.qO.pk-Rpzw
r.eptuwqpqafddh.sqKo.qk.rrtih.qbtwpwk.rwqpkqko.q.phtulqpubqWnfko
 .uwtulknuqhpinrpknrt.wqopc.qbtwtujhtu.bqpuphzwkwqynrqyfrko.r
tuc.wktlpktnuwqfanuqko.qhpkk.rsqWa.jkrfeqpuphzwtwqnyqko.qihpj qanvb.r
antukwqfuetwkp pihzqknqko.qar.w.uj.qnyqpuqfu unvuq.h.e.ukqvtkoqp
irthhtpukqlrnfaqnyqkor..qhtu.wqtuqko.qlr..u,qpubqtkqtwqanwwtih.qkopkqtk
jneitu.wqvtkoqprlnuqknqynreqpqjneanfubqvotjoqpjkwqpkqnuj.qvtkoqb.pbhz
.yy.jkqfanuqwne.qjnuwktkf.ukqtuqko.qihnnbsqIfkqwfjoqfuarnc.u
wa.jfhpktnuwqvthhqwjprj.hzqi.qnyqtuk.r.wkqknqko.ql.u.rphqr.pb.r,qkn
voneqkotwqwknrzqtwqpbbr.ww.bsqUnu.qnyqko.qirnvuqwjfeqkopkqbrtyk.bqbnvu
ko.qKope.wqpyk.rqko.qb.wkrfjktnuqnyqWo.aa.rknuqvpwq.mpetu.bqpkqko.
kte.,qpubqunvqunu.qtwqynrkojnetuls

Ko.qr.wfhkwqnyqpuqpupknetjphq.mpetupktnuqnyqko.qEprktpuw,qwnqyprqpwqko.
arnvhtulqbnlwqopbqh.ykqwfjoqpuq.mpetupktnuqanwwtih.,qTqopc.qphr.pbz
ltc.usqIfkq.c.rznu.qtwqypethtprqvtkoqko.qeplutytj.ukqpubqphenwk
jneah.k.qwa.jte.uqtuqwatrtkwqpkqko.qUpkfrphqOtwknrzqEfw.fe,qpubqko.
jnfukh.wwqbrpvtulwqkopkqopc.qi..uqepb.qyrneqtk;qpubqi.znubqkopkqko.
tuk.r.wkqnyqko.trqaozwtnhnlzqpubqwkrfjkfr.qtwqafr.hzqwjt.uktytjs

Pqxf.wktnuqnyqlrpc.rqpubqfutc.rwphqtuk.r.wkqtwqko.qanwwtithtkzqny
punko.rqpkkpj qyrneqko.qEprktpuwsqTqbnqunkqkotu qkopkqu.prhzq.unflo
pkk.uktnuqtwqi.tulqltc.uqknqkotwqpwa.jkqnyqko.qepkk.rsqPkqar.w.ukqko.
ahpu.kqEprwqtwqtuqjnugfujktnu,qifkqvtkoq.c.rzqr.kfruqknqnaanwtktnuqT,
ynrqnu.,qpuktjtapk.qpqr.u.vphqnyqko.trqpbc.ukfr.sqTuqpuzqjpw.,qv.
wonfhbqi.qar.apr.bsqTkqw..ewqknqe.qkopkqtkqwonfhbqi.qanwwtih.qknqb.ytu.
ko.qanwtktnuqnyqko.qlfuqyrneqvotjoqko.qwonkwqpr.qbtwjoprl.b,qknq ..aqp
wfwkptu.bqvpkjoqfanuqkotwqaprkqnyqko.qahpu.k,qpubqknqpuktjtapk.qko.
prrtcphqnyqko.qu.mkqpkkpj s

Tuqkopkqjpw.qko.qjzhtub.rqetlokqi.qb.wkrnz.bqvtkoqbzupetk.qnrqprkthh.rz
i.ynr.qtkqvpwqwfyytjt.ukhzqjnnhqynrqko.qEprktpuwqknq.e.rl.,qnrqko.z
etlokqi.qifkjo.r.bqizqe.puwqnyqlfuwqwnqwnnuqpwqko.qwjr.vqna.u.bsqTk
w..ewqknqe.qkopkqko.zqopc.qhnwkqpqcpwkqpbcpukpl.qtuqko.qypthfr.qny
ko.trqytrwkqwfrartw.sqAnwwtihzqko.zqw..qtkqtuqko.qwpe.qhtloks

H.wwtulqopwqpbcpuj.bq.mj.hh.ukqr.pwnuwqynrqwfaanwtulqkopkqko.qEprktpuw
opc.qpjkfphhzqwfjj..b.bqtuq.yy.jktulqpqhpubtulqnuqko.qahpu.kqC.ufws
W.c.uqenukowqplnqunv,qC.ufwqpubqEprwqv.r.qtuqphtlue.ukqvtkoqko.qwfu;
kopkqtwqknqwpz,qEprwqvpwqtuqnaanwtktnuqyrneqko.qantukqnyqct.vqnyqpu
niw.rc.rqnuqC.ufwsqWfiw.xf.ukhzqpqa.jfhtprqhfetunfwqpubqwtufnfwqepr tul
paa.pr.bqnuqko.qfuthhfetu.bqophyqnyqko.qtuu.rqahpu.k,qpubqphenwk
wtefhkpu.nfwhzqpqyptukqbpr qepr qnyqpqwtethprqwtufnfwqjoprpjk.rqvpw
b.k.jk.bqfanuqpqaonknlrpaoqnyqko.qEprktpuqbtw sqNu.qu..bwqknqw..qko.
brpvtulwqnyqko.w.qpaa.prpuj.wqtuqnrb.rqknqpaar.jtpk.qyfhhzqko.tr
r.epr pih.qr.w.eihpuj.qtuqjoprpjk.rs

Pkqpuzqrpk.,qvo.ko.rqv.q.ma.jkqpunko.rqtucpwtnuqnrqunk,qnfrqct.vwqny
ko.qofepuqyfkfr.qefwkqi.qlr.pkhzqenbtyt.bqizqko.w.q.c.ukwsqV.qopc.
h.pru.bqunvqkopkqv.qjpuunkqr.lprbqkotwqahpu.kqpwqi.tulqy.uj.bqtuqpubqp
w.jfr.qpitbtulqahpj.qynrqEpu;qv.qjpuqu.c.rqpuktjtapk.qko.qfuw..uqlnnb
nrq.cthqkopkqepzqjne.qfanuqfwqwfbb.uhzqnfkqnyqwapj.sqTkqepzqi.qkopkqtu
ko.qhprl.rqb.wtluqnyqko.qfutc.rw.qkotwqtucpwtnuqyrneqEprwqtwqunk
vtkonfkqtkwqfhktepk.qi.u.ytkqynrqe.u;qtkqopwqrnii.bqfwqnyqkopkqw.r.u.
jnuytb.uj.qtuqko.qyfkfr.qvotjoqtwqko.qenwkqyrftkyfhqwnfrj.qny
b.jpb.uj.,qko.qltykwqknqofepuqwjt.uj.qtkqopwqirnflokqpr.q.unrenfw,qpub
tkqopwqbnu.qefjoqknqarnenk.qko.qjnuj.aktnuqnyqko.qjneenuv.phqny
epu tubsqTkqepzqi.qkopkqpjrnwwqko.qtee.uwtkzqnyqwapj.qko.qEprktpuwqopc.
vpkjo.bqko.qypk.qnyqko.w.qatnu..rwqnyqko.trwqpubqh.pru.bqko.trqh.wwnu,
pubqkopkqnuqko.qahpu.kqC.ufwqko.zqopc.qynfubqpqw.jfr.rqw.kkh.e.uksqI.
kopkqpwqtkqepz,qynrqepuzqz.prwqz.kqko.r.qvthhqj.rkptuhzqi.qun
r.hpmpktnuqnyqko.q.pl.rqwjrfktuzqnyqko.qEprktpuqbtw ,qpubqkonw.qyt.rz
bprkwqnyqko.qw z,qko.qwonnktulqwkprw,qvthhqirtulqvtkoqko.eqpwqko.zqyphh
puqfupcntbpih.qpaar.o.uwtnuqknqphhqko.qwnuwqnyqe.us

Ko.qirnpb.utulqnyqe.u’wqct.vwqkopkqopwqr.wfhk.bqjpuqwjprj.hzqi.
.mpll.rpk.bsqI.ynr.qko.qjzhtub.rqy.hhqko.r.qvpwqpql.u.rphqa.rwfpwtnu
kopkqkornfloqphhqko.qb..aqnyqwapj.qunqhty.q.mtwk.bqi.znubqko.qa.kkz
wfrypj.qnyqnfrqetufk.qwao.r.sqUnvqv.qw..qyfrko.rsqTyqko.qEprktpuwqjpu
r.pjoqC.ufw,qko.r.qtwqunqr.pwnuqknqwfaanw.qkopkqko.qkotulqtwqteanwwtih.
ynrqe.u,qpubqvo.uqko.qwhnvqjnnhtulqnyqko.qwfuqep .wqkotwq.prko
futuopitkpih.,qpwqpkqhpwkqtkqefwkqbn,qtkqepzqi.qkopkqko.qkor.pbqnyqhty.
kopkqopwqi.lfuqo.r.qvthhqopc.qwkr.pe.bqnfkqpubqjpflokqnfrqwtwk.rqahpu.k
vtkotuqtkwqknthws

Bteqpubqvnub.ryfhqtwqko.qctwtnuqTqopc.qjnugfr.bqfaqtuqezqetubqnyqhty.
war.pbtulqwhnvhzqyrneqkotwqhtkkh.qw..bqi.bqnyqko.qwnhprqwzwk.e
kornflonfkqko.qtuputepk.qcpwku.wwqnyqwtb.r.phqwapj.sqIfkqkopkqtwqp
r.enk.qbr.pesqTkqepzqi.,qnuqko.qnko.rqopub,qkopkqko.qb.wkrfjktnuqnyqko.
Eprktpuwqtwqnuhzqpqr.art.c.sqKnqko.e,qpubqunkqknqfw,qa.ropaw,qtwqko.
yfkfr.qnrbptu.bs

Tqefwkqjnuy.wwqko.qwkr.wwqpubqbpul.rqnyqko.qkte.qopc.qh.ykqpuqpitbtul
w.uw.qnyqbnfikqpubqtuw.jfrtkzqtuqezqetubsqTqwtkqtuqezqwkfbzqvrtktulqiz
hpeahtlok,qpubqwfbb.uhzqTqw..qplptuqko.qo.phtulqcphh.zqi.hnvqw.kqvtko
vrtkotulqyhpe.w,qpubqy..hqko.qonfw.qi.otubqpubqpinfkqe.q.eakzqpub
b.wnhpk.sqTqlnqnfkqtuknqko.qIzyh..kqRnpb,qpubqc.otjh.wqapwwqe.,qp
ifkjo.rqinzqtuqpqjprk,qpqjpiyfhqnyqctwtknrw,qpqvnr epuqnuqpqitjzjh.,
jothbr.uqlntulqknqwjonnh,qpubqwfbb.uhzqko.zqi.jne.qcplf.qpubqfur.ph,
pubqTqofrrzqplptuqvtkoqko.qprkthh.rzepuqkornfloqko.qonk,qirnnbtul
wth.uj.sqNyqpqutlokqTqw..qko.qihpj qanvb.rqbpr .utulqko.qwth.uk
wkr..kw,qpubqko.qjnuknrk.bqinbt.wqwornfb.bqtuqkopkqhpz.r;qko.zqrtw.
fanuqe.qkpkk.r.bqpubqbnl-itkk.usqKo.zqltii.rqpubqlrnvqyt.rj.r,qaph.r,
flht.r,qepbqbtwknrktnuwqnyqofeputkzqpkqhpwk,qpubqTqvp .,qjnhbqpub
vr.kjo.b,qtuqko.qbpr u.wwqnyqko.qutloks

TqlnqknqHnubnuqpubqw..qko.qifwzqefhktkfb.wqtuqYh..kqWkr..kqpubqko.
Wkrpub,qpubqtkqjne.wqpjrnwwqezqetubqkopkqko.zqpr.qifkqko.qlonwkwqnyqko.
apwk,qopfuktulqko.qwkr..kwqkopkqTqopc.qw..uqwth.ukqpubqvr.kjo.b,qlntul
knqpubqyrn,qaopukpwewqtuqpqb.pbqjtkz,qko.qenj .rzqnyqhty.qtuqp
lphcputw.bqinbzsqPubqwkrpul.,qknn,qtkqtwqknqwkpubqnuqArternw.qOthh,qpw
Tqbtbqifkqpqbpzqi.ynr.qvrtktulqkotwqhpwkqjopak.r,qknqw..qko.qlr.pk
arnctuj.qnyqonfw.w,qbteqpubqihf.qkornfloqko.qopd.qnyqko.qwen .qpub
etwk,qcputwotulqpkqhpwkqtuknqko.qcplf.qhnv.rqw z,qknqw..qko.qa.nah.
vph tulqknqpubqyrnqpenulqko.qyhnv.rqi.bwqnuqko.qothh,qknqw..qko.
wtlok-w..rwqpinfkqko.qEprktpuqepjotu.qkopkqwkpubwqko.r.qwkthh,qknqo.pr
ko.qkfefhkqnyqahpztulqjothbr.u,qpubqknqr.jphhqko.qkte.qvo.uqTqwpvqtk
phhqirtlokqpubqjh.pr-jfk,qoprbqpubqwth.uk,qfub.rqko.qbpvuqnyqkopkqhpwk
lr.pkqbpzsqsqsqs

Pubqwkrpul.wkqnyqphhqtwqtkqknqonhbqezqvty.’wqopubqplptu,qpubqknqkotu 
kopkqTqopc.qjnfuk.bqo.r,qpubqkopkqwo.qopwqjnfuk.bqe.,qpenulqko.qb.pbs




.ubqnyqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlq.Inn qnyqKo.qVprqnyqko.qVnrhbw,qizqOsqLsqV.hhw

***q.UBqNYqKOTWqARNG.JKqLFK.UI.RLq.INN qKO.qVPRqNYqKO.qVNRHBWq***

*****qKotwqyth.qwonfhbqi.qupe.bq36-0skmkqnrq36-0sdtaq*****
Kotwqpubqphhqpwwnjtpk.bqyth.wqnyqcprtnfwqynrepkwqvthhqi.qynfubqtu:
qqqqqqqqokka://vvvslfk.ui.rlsu.k/3/36/

Fabpk.bq.btktnuwqvthhqr.ahpj.qko.qar.ctnfwqnu.--ko.qnhbq.btktnuwqvthh
i.qr.upe.bs

Jr.pktulqko.qvnr wqyrneqartukq.btktnuwqunkqarnk.jk.bqizqFsWsqjnazrtlok
hpvqe.puwqkopkqunqnu.qnvuwqpqFutk.bqWkpk.wqjnazrtlokqtuqko.w.qvnr w,
wnqko.qYnfubpktnuq(pubqznf!)qjpuqjnazqpubqbtwkrtifk.qtkqtuqko.qFutk.b
Wkpk.wqvtkonfkqa.retwwtnuqpubqvtkonfkqapztulqjnazrtlok
rnzphkt.wsqWa.jtphqrfh.w,qw.kqynrkoqtuqko.qL.u.rphqK.rewqnyqFw.qaprk
nyqkotwqhtj.uw.,qpaahzqknqjnaztulqpubqbtwkrtifktulqArng.jk
Lfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr wqknqarnk.jkqko.qARNG.JKqLFK.UI.RL-ke
jnuj.akqpubqkrpb.epr sqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqtwqpqr.ltwk.r.bqkrpb.epr ,
pubqepzqunkqi.qfw.bqtyqznfqjoprl.qynrqko.q.Inn w,qfuh.wwqznfqr.j.tc.
wa.jtytjqa.retwwtnusqTyqznfqbnqunkqjoprl.qpuzkotulqynrqjnat.wqnyqkotw
.Inn ,qjneahztulqvtkoqko.qrfh.wqtwqc.rzq.pwzsqZnfqepzqfw.qkotwq.Inn 
ynrqu.prhzqpuzqafranw.qwfjoqpwqjr.pktnuqnyqb.rtcpktc.qvnr w,qr.anrkw,
a.rynrepuj.wqpubqr.w.prjosqKo.zqepzqi.qenbtyt.bqpubqartuk.bqpubqltc.u
pvpz--znfqepzqbnqarpjktjphhzqPUZKOTULqtuqko.qFutk.bqWkpk.wqvtkoq.Inn w
unkqarnk.jk.bqizqFsWsqjnazrtlokqhpvsqR.btwkrtifktnuqtwqwfig.jkqknqko.
krpb.epr qhtj.uw.,q.wa.jtphhzqjnee.rjtphqr.btwkrtifktnus

WKPRK:qYFHHqHTJ.UW.

KO.qYFHHqARNG.JKqLFK.UI.RLqHTJ.UW.
AH.PW.qR.PBqKOTWqI.YNR.qZNFqBTWKRTIFK.qNRqFW.qKOTWqVNR 

Knqarnk.jkqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqetwwtnuqnyqarnenktulqko.qyr..
btwkrtifktnuqnyq.h.jkrnutjqvnr w,qizqfwtulqnrqbtwkrtifktulqkotwqvnr 
(nrqpuzqnko.rqvnr qpwwnjtpk.bqtuqpuzqvpzqvtkoqko.qaorpw.q"Arng.jk
Lfk.ui.rl"),qznfqplr..qknqjneahzqvtkoqphhqko.qk.rewqnyqko.qYfhh
Arng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqHtj.uw.qpcpthpih.qvtkoqkotwqyth.qnrqnuhtu.qpk
vvvslfk.ui.rlsnrl/htj.uw.s

W.jktnuq1sqL.u.rphqK.rewqnyqFw.qpubqR.btwkrtifktulqArng.jk
Lfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr w

1sPsqIzqr.pbtulqnrqfwtulqpuzqaprkqnyqkotwqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-ke
.h.jkrnutjqvnr ,qznfqtubtjpk.qkopkqznfqopc.qr.pb,qfub.rwkpub,qplr..qkn
pubqpjj.akqphhqko.qk.rewqnyqkotwqhtj.uw.qpubqtuk.hh.jkfphqarna.rkz
(krpb.epr /jnazrtlok)qplr..e.uksqTyqznfqbnqunkqplr..qknqpitb.qizqphh
ko.qk.rewqnyqkotwqplr..e.uk,qznfqefwkqj.pw.qfwtulqpubqr.kfruqnr
b.wkrnzqphhqjnat.wqnyqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr wqtuqznfr
anww.wwtnusqTyqznfqaptbqpqy..qynrqnikptutulqpqjnazqnyqnrqpjj.wwqknqp
Arng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr qpubqznfqbnqunkqplr..qknqi.qinfub
izqko.qk.rewqnyqkotwqplr..e.uk,qznfqepzqnikptuqpqr.yfubqyrneqko.
a.rwnuqnrq.uktkzqknqvoneqznfqaptbqko.qy..qpwqw.kqynrkoqtuqaprplrpao
1s.s8s

1sIsq"Arng.jkqLfk.ui.rl"qtwqpqr.ltwk.r.bqkrpb.epr sqTkqepzqnuhzqi.
fw.bqnuqnrqpwwnjtpk.bqtuqpuzqvpzqvtkoqpuq.h.jkrnutjqvnr qizqa.nah.qvon
plr..qknqi.qinfubqizqko.qk.rewqnyqkotwqplr..e.uksqKo.r.qpr.qpqy.v
kotulwqkopkqznfqjpuqbnqvtkoqenwkqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr w
.c.uqvtkonfkqjneahztulqvtkoqko.qyfhhqk.rewqnyqkotwqplr..e.uksqW..
aprplrpaoq1sJqi.hnvsqKo.r.qpr.qpqhnkqnyqkotulwqznfqjpuqbnqvtkoqArng.jk
Lfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr wqtyqznfqynhhnvqko.qk.rewqnyqkotw
plr..e.ukqpubqo.haqar.w.rc.qyr..qyfkfr.qpjj.wwqknqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-ke
.h.jkrnutjqvnr wsqW..qaprplrpaoq1s.qi.hnvs

1sJsqKo.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqHtk.rprzqPrjotc.qYnfubpktnuq("ko.
Ynfubpktnu"qnrqALHPY),qnvuwqpqjneathpktnuqjnazrtlokqtuqko.qjnhh.jktnu
nyqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr wsqU.prhzqphhqko.qtubtctbfph
vnr wqtuqko.qjnhh.jktnuqpr.qtuqko.qafihtjqbneptuqtuqko.qFutk.b
Wkpk.wsqTyqpuqtubtctbfphqvnr qtwqfuarnk.jk.bqizqjnazrtlokqhpvqtuqko.
Futk.bqWkpk.wqpubqznfqpr.qhnjpk.bqtuqko.qFutk.bqWkpk.w,qv.qbnqunk
jhpteqpqrtlokqknqar.c.ukqznfqyrneqjnaztul,qbtwkrtifktul,qa.rynretul,
btwahpztulqnrqjr.pktulqb.rtcpktc.qvnr wqipw.bqnuqko.qvnr qpwqhnulqpw
phhqr.y.r.uj.wqknqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqpr.qr.enc.bsqNyqjnfrw.,qv.qona.
kopkqznfqvthhqwfaanrkqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqetwwtnuqnyqarnenktul
yr..qpjj.wwqknq.h.jkrnutjqvnr wqizqyr..hzqwoprtulqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-ke
vnr wqtuqjneahtpuj.qvtkoqko.qk.rewqnyqkotwqplr..e.ukqynrq ..atulqko.
Arng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-kequpe.qpwwnjtpk.bqvtkoqko.qvnr sqZnfqjpuq.pwthz
jneahzqvtkoqko.qk.rewqnyqkotwqplr..e.ukqizq ..atulqkotwqvnr qtuqko.
wpe.qynrepkqvtkoqtkwqpkkpjo.bqyfhhqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqHtj.uw.qvo.u
znfqwopr.qtkqvtkonfkqjoprl.qvtkoqnko.rws

1sBsqKo.qjnazrtlokqhpvwqnyqko.qahpj.qvo.r.qznfqpr.qhnjpk.bqphwnqlnc.ru
vopkqznfqjpuqbnqvtkoqkotwqvnr sqJnazrtlokqhpvwqtuqenwkqjnfukrt.wqpr.
tuqpqjnuwkpukqwkpk.qnyqjopul.sqTyqznfqpr.qnfkwtb.qko.qFutk.bqWkpk.w,
jo.j qko.qhpvwqnyqznfrqjnfukrzqtuqpbbtktnuqknqko.qk.rewqnyqkotw
plr..e.ukqi.ynr.qbnvuhnpbtul,qjnaztul,qbtwahpztul,qa.rynretul,
btwkrtifktulqnrqjr.pktulqb.rtcpktc.qvnr wqipw.bqnuqkotwqvnr qnrqpuz
nko.rqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqvnr sqKo.qYnfubpktnuqep .wqun
r.ar.w.ukpktnuwqjnuj.rutulqko.qjnazrtlokqwkpkfwqnyqpuzqvnr qtuqpuz
jnfukrzqnfkwtb.qko.qFutk.bqWkpk.ws

1s.sqFuh.wwqznfqopc.qr.enc.bqphhqr.y.r.uj.wqknqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl:

1s.s1sqKo.qynhhnvtulqw.uk.uj.,qvtkoqpjktc.qhtu wqkn,qnrqnko.r
tee.btpk.qpjj.wwqkn,qko.qyfhhqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqHtj.uw.qefwkqpaa.pr
arnetu.ukhzqvo.u.c.rqpuzqjnazqnyqpqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqvnr q(puzqvnr 
nuqvotjoqko.qaorpw.q"Arng.jkqLfk.ui.rl"qpaa.prw,qnrqvtkoqvotjoqko.
aorpw.q"Arng.jkqLfk.ui.rl"qtwqpwwnjtpk.b)qtwqpjj.ww.b,qbtwahpz.b,
a.rynre.b,qct.v.b,qjnat.bqnrqbtwkrtifk.b:

qqKotwq.Inn qtwqynrqko.qfw.qnyqpuznu.qpuzvo.r.qtuqko.qFutk.bqWkpk.wqpub
qqenwkqnko.rqaprkwqnyqko.qvnrhbqpkqunqjnwkqpubqvtkoqphenwkqun
qqr.wkrtjktnuwqvopkwn.c.rsqZnfqepzqjnazqtk,qltc.qtkqpvpzqnrqr.-fw.qtk
qqfub.rqko.qk.rewqnyqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqHtj.uw.qtujhfb.bqvtkoqkotw
qq.Inn qnrqnuhtu.qpkqvvvslfk.ui.rlsnrlsqTyqznfqpr.qunkqhnjpk.bqtuqko.
qqFutk.bqWkpk.w,qznf'hhqopc.qknqjo.j qko.qhpvwqnyqko.qjnfukrzqvo.r.qznf
qqpr.qhnjpk.bqi.ynr.qfwtulqkotwq.inn s

1s.s2sqTyqpuqtubtctbfphqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr qtw
b.rtc.bqyrneqk.mkwqunkqarnk.jk.bqizqFsWsqjnazrtlokqhpvq(bn.wqunk
jnukptuqpqunktj.qtubtjpktulqkopkqtkqtwqanwk.bqvtkoqa.retwwtnuqnyqko.
jnazrtlokqonhb.r),qko.qvnr qjpuqi.qjnat.bqpubqbtwkrtifk.bqknqpuznu.qtu
ko.qFutk.bqWkpk.wqvtkonfkqapztulqpuzqy..wqnrqjoprl.wsqTyqznfqpr.
r.btwkrtifktulqnrqarnctbtulqpjj.wwqknqpqvnr qvtkoqko.qaorpw.q"Arng.jk
Lfk.ui.rl"qpwwnjtpk.bqvtkoqnrqpaa.prtulqnuqko.qvnr ,qznfqefwkqjneahz
.tko.rqvtkoqko.qr.xftr.e.ukwqnyqaprplrpaowq1s.s1qkornfloq1s.s7qnr
nikptuqa.retwwtnuqynrqko.qfw.qnyqko.qvnr qpubqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-ke
krpb.epr qpwqw.kqynrkoqtuqaprplrpaowq1s.s8qnrq1s.s9s

1s.s3sqTyqpuqtubtctbfphqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr qtwqanwk.b
vtkoqko.qa.retwwtnuqnyqko.qjnazrtlokqonhb.r,qznfrqfw.qpubqbtwkrtifktnu
efwkqjneahzqvtkoqinkoqaprplrpaowq1s.s1qkornfloq1s.s7qpubqpuz
pbbtktnuphqk.rewqteanw.bqizqko.qjnazrtlokqonhb.rsqPbbtktnuphqk.rew
vthhqi.qhtu .bqknqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqHtj.uw.qynrqphhqvnr w
anwk.bqvtkoqko.qa.retwwtnuqnyqko.qjnazrtlokqonhb.rqynfubqpkqko.
i.ltuutulqnyqkotwqvnr s

1s.s4sqBnqunkqfuhtu qnrqb.kpjoqnrqr.enc.qko.qyfhhqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-ke
Htj.uw.qk.rewqyrneqkotwqvnr ,qnrqpuzqyth.wqjnukptutulqpqaprkqnyqkotw
vnr qnrqpuzqnko.rqvnr qpwwnjtpk.bqvtkoqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-kes

1s.s5sqBnqunkqjnaz,qbtwahpz,qa.rynre,qbtwkrtifk.qnrqr.btwkrtifk.qkotw
.h.jkrnutjqvnr ,qnrqpuzqaprkqnyqkotwq.h.jkrnutjqvnr ,qvtkonfk
arnetu.ukhzqbtwahpztulqko.qw.uk.uj.qw.kqynrkoqtuqaprplrpaoq1s.s1qvtko
pjktc.qhtu wqnrqtee.btpk.qpjj.wwqknqko.qyfhhqk.rewqnyqko.qArng.jk
Lfk.ui.rl-keqHtj.uw.s

1s.s6sqZnfqepzqjnuc.rkqknqpubqbtwkrtifk.qkotwqvnr qtuqpuzqituprz,
jnear.ww.b,qepr .bqfa,qunuarnart.kprzqnrqarnart.kprzqynre,qtujhfbtul
puzqvnrbqarnj.wwtulqnrqoza.rk.mkqynresqOnv.c.r,qtyqznfqarnctb.qpjj.ww
knqnrqbtwkrtifk.qjnat.wqnyqpqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqvnr qtuqpqynrepk
nko.rqkopuq"AhptuqCputhhpqPWJTT"qnrqnko.rqynrepkqfw.bqtuqko.qnyytjtph
c.rwtnuqanwk.bqnuqko.qnyytjtphqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqv.iqwtk.
(vvvslfk.ui.rlsnrl),qznfqefwk,qpkqunqpbbtktnuphqjnwk,qy..qnrq.ma.uw.
knqko.qfw.r,qarnctb.qpqjnaz,qpqe.puwqnyq.manrktulqpqjnaz,qnrqpqe.puw
nyqnikptutulqpqjnazqfanuqr.xf.wk,qnyqko.qvnr qtuqtkwqnrtltuphq"Ahptu
CputhhpqPWJTT"qnrqnko.rqynresqPuzqphk.rupk.qynrepkqefwkqtujhfb.qko.
yfhhqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqHtj.uw.qpwqwa.jtyt.bqtuqaprplrpaoq1s.s1s

1s.s7sqBnqunkqjoprl.qpqy..qynrqpjj.wwqkn,qct.vtul,qbtwahpztul,
a.rynretul,qjnaztulqnrqbtwkrtifktulqpuzqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqvnr w
fuh.wwqznfqjneahzqvtkoqaprplrpaoq1s.s8qnrq1s.s9s

1s.s8sqZnfqepzqjoprl.qpqr.pwnupih.qy..qynrqjnat.wqnyqnrqarnctbtul
pjj.wwqknqnrqbtwkrtifktulqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr w
arnctb.bqkopk

*qZnfqapzqpqrnzphkzqy..qnyq20%qnyqko.qlrnwwqarnytkwqznfqb.rtc.qyrne
qqko.qfw.qnyqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqvnr wqjphjfhpk.bqfwtulqko.qe.konb
qqznfqphr.pbzqfw.qknqjphjfhpk.qznfrqpaahtjpih.qkpm.wsqKo.qy..qtwqnv.b
qqknqko.qnvu.rqnyqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqkrpb.epr ,qifkqo.qopw
qqplr..bqknqbnupk.qrnzphkt.wqfub.rqkotwqaprplrpaoqknqko.qArng.jk
qqLfk.ui.rlqHtk.rprzqPrjotc.qYnfubpktnusqRnzphkzqapze.ukwqefwkqi.qaptb
qqvtkotuq60qbpzwqynhhnvtulq.pjoqbpk.qnuqvotjoqznfqar.apr.q(nrqpr.
qqh.lphhzqr.xftr.bqknqar.apr.)qznfrqa.rtnbtjqkpmqr.kfruwsqRnzphkz
qqapze.ukwqwonfhbqi.qjh.prhzqepr .bqpwqwfjoqpubqw.ukqknqko.qArng.jk
qqLfk.ui.rlqHtk.rprzqPrjotc.qYnfubpktnuqpkqko.qpbbr.wwqwa.jtyt.bqtu
qqW.jktnuq4,q"Tuynrepktnuqpinfkqbnupktnuwqknqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl
qqHtk.rprzqPrjotc.qYnfubpktnus"

*qZnfqarnctb.qpqyfhhqr.yfubqnyqpuzqenu.zqaptbqizqpqfw.rqvonqunktyt.w
qqznfqtuqvrtktulq(nrqizq.-epth)qvtkotuq30qbpzwqnyqr.j.takqkopkqw/o.
qqbn.wqunkqplr..qknqko.qk.rewqnyqko.qyfhhqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-ke
qqHtj.uw.sqZnfqefwkqr.xftr.qwfjoqpqfw.rqknqr.kfruqnrqb.wkrnzqphh
qqjnat.wqnyqko.qvnr wqanww.ww.bqtuqpqaozwtjphqe.btfeqpubqbtwjnuktuf.
qqphhqfw.qnyqpubqphhqpjj.wwqknqnko.rqjnat.wqnyqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-ke
qqvnr ws

*qZnfqarnctb.,qtuqpjjnrbpuj.qvtkoqaprplrpaoq1sYs3,qpqyfhhqr.yfubqny
qqpuzqenu.zqaptbqynrqpqvnr qnrqpqr.ahpj.e.ukqjnaz,qtyqpqb.y.jkqtuqko.
qq.h.jkrnutjqvnr qtwqbtwjnc.r.bqpubqr.anrk.bqknqznfqvtkotuq90qbpzwqny
qqr.j.takqnyqko.qvnr s

*qZnfqjneahzqvtkoqphhqnko.rqk.rewqnyqkotwqplr..e.ukqynrqyr..
qqbtwkrtifktnuqnyqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqvnr ws

1s.s9sqTyqznfqvtwoqknqjoprl.qpqy..qnrqbtwkrtifk.qpqArng.jk
Lfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr qnrqlrnfaqnyqvnr wqnuqbtyy.r.ukqk.rewqkopu
pr.qw.kqynrkoqtuqkotwqplr..e.uk,qznfqefwkqnikptuqa.retwwtnuqtuqvrtktul
yrneqinkoqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqHtk.rprzqPrjotc.qYnfubpktnuqpubqKo.
Arng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqKrpb.epr qHHJ,qko.qnvu.rqnyqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-ke
krpb.epr sqJnukpjkqko.qYnfubpktnuqpwqw.kqynrkoqtuqW.jktnuq3qi.hnvs

1sYs

1sYs1sqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqcnhfuk..rwqpubq.eahnz..wq.ma.ubqjnuwtb.rpih.
.yynrkqknqtb.uktyz,qbnqjnazrtlokqr.w.prjoqnu,qkrpuwjrti.qpubqarnnyr.pb
vnr wqunkqarnk.jk.bqizqFsWsqjnazrtlokqhpvqtuqjr.pktulqko.qArng.jk
Lfk.ui.rl-keqjnhh.jktnusqB.watk.qko.w.q.yynrkw,qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-ke
.h.jkrnutjqvnr w,qpubqko.qe.btfeqnuqvotjoqko.zqepzqi.qwknr.b,qepz
jnukptuq"B.y.jkw,"qwfjoqpw,qifkqunkqhtetk.bqkn,qtujneah.k.,qtupjjfrpk.
nrqjnrrfakqbpkp,qkrpuwjrtaktnuq.rrnrw,qpqjnazrtlokqnrqnko.r
tuk.hh.jkfphqarna.rkzqtuyrtul.e.uk,qpqb.y.jktc.qnrqbpepl.bqbtw qnr
nko.rqe.btfe,qpqjneafk.rqctrfw,qnrqjneafk.rqjnb.wqkopkqbpepl.qnr
jpuunkqi.qr.pbqizqznfrq.xftae.uks

1sYs2sqHTETK.BqVPRRPUKZ,qBTWJHPTE.RqNYqBPEPL.Wq-q.mj.akqynrqko.q"Rtlok
nyqR.ahpj.e.ukqnrqR.yfub"qb.wjrti.bqtuqaprplrpaoq1sYs3,qko.qArng.jk
Lfk.ui.rlqHtk.rprzqPrjotc.qYnfubpktnu,qko.qnvu.rqnyqko.qArng.jk
Lfk.ui.rl-keqkrpb.epr ,qpubqpuzqnko.rqaprkzqbtwkrtifktulqpqArng.jk
Lfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr qfub.rqkotwqplr..e.uk,qbtwjhpteqphh
htpithtkzqknqznfqynrqbpepl.w,qjnwkwqpubq.ma.uw.w,qtujhfbtulqh.lph
y..wsqZNFqPLR..qKOPKqZNFqOPC.qUNqR.E.BT.WqYNRqU.LHTL.UJ.,qWKRTJK
HTPITHTKZ,qIR.PJOqNYqVPRRPUKZqNRqIR.PJOqNYqJNUKRPJKq.MJ.AKqKONW.
ARNCTB.BqTUqAPRPLRPAOq1sYs3sqZNFqPLR..qKOPKqKO.qYNFUBPKTNU,qKO.
KRPB.EPR qNVU.R,qPUBqPUZqBTWKRTIFKNRqFUB.RqKOTWqPLR..E.UKqVTHHqUNKqI.
HTPIH.qKNqZNFqYNRqPJKFPH,qBTR.JK,qTUBTR.JK,qJNUW.XF.UKTPH,qAFUTKTC.qNR
TUJTB.UKPHqBPEPL.Wq.C.UqTYqZNFqLTC.qUNKTJ.qNYqKO.qANWWTITHTKZqNYqWFJO
BPEPL.s

1sYs3sqHTETK.BqRTLOKqNYqR.AHPJ.E.UKqNRqR.YFUBq-qTyqznfqbtwjnc.rqp
b.y.jkqtuqkotwq.h.jkrnutjqvnr qvtkotuq90qbpzwqnyqr.j.tctulqtk,qznfqjpu
r.j.tc.qpqr.yfubqnyqko.qenu.zq(tyqpuz)qznfqaptbqynrqtkqizqw.ubtulqp
vrtkk.uq.mahpupktnuqknqko.qa.rwnuqznfqr.j.tc.bqko.qvnr qyrnesqTyqznf
r.j.tc.bqko.qvnr qnuqpqaozwtjphqe.btfe,qznfqefwkqr.kfruqko.qe.btfe
vtkoqznfrqvrtkk.uq.mahpupktnusqKo.qa.rwnuqnrq.uktkzqkopkqarnctb.bqznf
vtkoqko.qb.y.jktc.qvnr qepzq.h.jkqknqarnctb.qpqr.ahpj.e.ukqjnazqtu
ht.fqnyqpqr.yfubsqTyqznfqr.j.tc.bqko.qvnr q.h.jkrnutjphhz,qko.qa.rwnu
nrq.uktkzqarnctbtulqtkqknqznfqepzqjonnw.qknqltc.qznfqpqw.jnub
naanrkfutkzqknqr.j.tc.qko.qvnr q.h.jkrnutjphhzqtuqht.fqnyqpqr.yfubsqTy
ko.qw.jnubqjnazqtwqphwnqb.y.jktc.,qznfqepzqb.epubqpqr.yfubqtuqvrtktul
vtkonfkqyfrko.rqnaanrkfutkt.wqknqytmqko.qarnih.es

1sYs4sq.mj.akqynrqko.qhtetk.bqrtlokqnyqr.ahpj.e.ukqnrqr.yfubqw.kqynrko
tuqaprplrpaoq1sYs3,qkotwqvnr qtwqarnctb.bqknqznfq'PW-TW',qVTKOqUN
NKO.RqVPRRPUKT.WqNYqPUZq TUB,q.MAR.WWqNRqTEAHT.B,qTUJHFBTULqIFKqUNK
HTETK.BqKNqVPRRPUKT.WqNYqE.RJOPUKPITHTKZqNRqYTKU.WWqYNRqPUZqAFRANW.s

1sYs5sqWne.qwkpk.wqbnqunkqphhnvqbtwjhpte.rwqnyqj.rkptuqteaht.b
vprrpukt.wqnrqko.q.mjhfwtnuqnrqhtetkpktnuqnyqj.rkptuqkza.wqny
bpepl.wsqTyqpuzqbtwjhpte.rqnrqhtetkpktnuqw.kqynrkoqtuqkotwqplr..e.uk
ctnhpk.wqko.qhpvqnyqko.qwkpk.qpaahtjpih.qknqkotwqplr..e.uk,qko.
plr..e.ukqwophhqi.qtuk.rar.k.bqknqep .qko.qepmtefeqbtwjhpte.rqnr
htetkpktnuqa.retkk.bqizqko.qpaahtjpih.qwkpk.qhpvsqKo.qtucphtbtkzqnr
fu.uynrj.pithtkzqnyqpuzqarnctwtnuqnyqkotwqplr..e.ukqwophhqunkqcntbqko.
r.eptutulqarnctwtnuws

1sYs6sqTUB.EUTKZq-qZnfqplr..qknqtub.eutyzqpubqonhbqko.qYnfubpktnu,qko.
krpb.epr qnvu.r,qpuzqpl.ukqnrq.eahnz..qnyqko.qYnfubpktnu,qpuznu.
arnctbtulqjnat.wqnyqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr wqtu
pjjnrbpuj.qvtkoqkotwqplr..e.uk,qpubqpuzqcnhfuk..rwqpwwnjtpk.bqvtkoqko.
arnbfjktnu,qarnenktnuqpubqbtwkrtifktnuqnyqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-ke
.h.jkrnutjqvnr w,qopreh.wwqyrneqphhqhtpithtkz,qjnwkwqpubq.ma.uw.w,
tujhfbtulqh.lphqy..w,qkopkqprtw.qbtr.jkhzqnrqtubtr.jkhzqyrneqpuzqny
ko.qynhhnvtulqvotjoqznfqbnqnrqjpfw.qknqnjjfr:q(p)qbtwkrtifktnuqnyqkotw
nrqpuzqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqvnr ,q(i)qphk.rpktnu,qenbtytjpktnu,qnr
pbbtktnuwqnrqb.h.ktnuwqknqpuzqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqvnr ,qpubq(j)qpuz
B.y.jkqznfqjpfw.s

W.jktnuq2sqTuynrepktnuqpinfkqko.qEtwwtnuqnyqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-ke

Arng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqtwqwzunuzenfwqvtkoqko.qyr..qbtwkrtifktnuqny
.h.jkrnutjqvnr wqtuqynrepkwqr.pbpih.qizqko.qvtb.wkqcprt.kzqny
jneafk.rwqtujhfbtulqniwnh.k.,qnhb,qetbbh.-pl.bqpubqu.vqjneafk.rwsqTk
.mtwkwqi.jpfw.qnyqko.q.yynrkwqnyqofubr.bwqnyqcnhfuk..rwqpubqbnupktnuw
yrneqa.nah.qtuqphhqvph wqnyqhty.s

Cnhfuk..rwqpubqytupujtphqwfaanrkqknqarnctb.qcnhfuk..rwqvtkoqko.
pwwtwkpuj.qko.zqu..bqpr.qjrtktjphqknqr.pjotulqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-ke'w
lnphwqpubq.uwfrtulqkopkqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqjnhh.jktnuqvthh
r.eptuqyr..hzqpcpthpih.qynrql.u.rpktnuwqknqjne.sqTuq2001,qko.qArng.jk
Lfk.ui.rlqHtk.rprzqPrjotc.qYnfubpktnuqvpwqjr.pk.bqknqarnctb.qpqw.jfr.
pubqa.repu.ukqyfkfr.qynrqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqpubqyfkfr.
l.u.rpktnuwsqKnqh.pruqenr.qpinfkqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqHtk.rprz
Prjotc.qYnfubpktnuqpubqonvqznfrq.yynrkwqpubqbnupktnuwqjpuqo.ha,qw..
W.jktnuwq3qpubq4qpubqko.qYnfubpktnuqtuynrepktnuqapl.qpk
vvvslfk.ui.rlsnrl



W.jktnuq3sqTuynrepktnuqpinfkqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqHtk.rprzqPrjotc.qYnfubpktnu

Ko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqHtk.rprzqPrjotc.qYnfubpktnuqtwqpqunuqarnytk
501(j)(3)q.bfjpktnuphqjnranrpktnuqnrlputd.bqfub.rqko.qhpvwqnyqko.
wkpk.qnyqEtwwtwwtaatqpubqlrpuk.bqkpmq.m.eakqwkpkfwqizqko.qTuk.ruph
R.c.uf.qW.rctj.sqKo.qYnfubpktnu'wq.TUqnrqy.b.rphqkpmqtb.uktytjpktnu
ufei.rqtwq64-6221541sqJnukrtifktnuwqknqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqHtk.rprz
Prjotc.qYnfubpktnuqpr.qkpmqb.bfjktih.qknqko.qyfhhq.mk.ukqa.retkk.bqiz
FsWsqy.b.rphqhpvwqpubqznfrqwkpk.'wqhpvws

Ko.qYnfubpktnu'wqartujtaphqnyytj.qtwqtuqYptripu w,qPhpw p,qvtkoqko.
epthtulqpbbr.ww:qANqInmq750175,qYptripu w,qP q99775,qifkqtkw
cnhfuk..rwqpubq.eahnz..wqpr.qwjpkk.r.bqkornflonfkqufe.rnfw
hnjpktnuwsqTkwqifwtu.wwqnyytj.qtwqhnjpk.bqpkq809qUnrkoq1500qV.wk,qWphk
Hp .qJtkz,qFKq84116,q(801)q596-1887sq.epthqjnukpjkqhtu wqpubqfaqkn
bpk.qjnukpjkqtuynrepktnuqjpuqi.qynfubqpkqko.qYnfubpktnu'wqv.iqwtk.qpub
nyytjtphqapl.qpkqvvvslfk.ui.rlsnrl/jnukpjk

Ynrqpbbtktnuphqjnukpjkqtuynrepktnu:

qqqqBrsqLr.lnrzqIsqU.viz
qqqqJot.yq.m.jfktc.qpubqBtr.jknr
qqqqliu.viz@alhpysnrl

W.jktnuq4sqTuynrepktnuqpinfkqBnupktnuwqknqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl
Htk.rprzqPrjotc.qYnfubpktnu

Arng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keqb.a.ubwqfanuqpubqjpuunkqwfrctc.qvtkonfkqvtb.
war.pbqafihtjqwfaanrkqpubqbnupktnuwqknqjprrzqnfkqtkwqetwwtnuqny
tujr.pwtulqko.qufei.rqnyqafihtjqbneptuqpubqhtj.uw.bqvnr wqkopkqjpuqi.
yr..hzqbtwkrtifk.bqtuqepjotu.qr.pbpih.qynreqpjj.wwtih.qizqko.qvtb.wk
prrpzqnyq.xftae.ukqtujhfbtulqnfkbpk.bq.xftae.uksqEpuzqwephhqbnupktnuw
($1qknq$5,000)qpr.qaprktjfhprhzqteanrkpukqknqeptukptutulqkpmq.m.eak
wkpkfwqvtkoqko.qTRWs

Ko.qYnfubpktnuqtwqjneetkk.bqknqjneahztulqvtkoqko.qhpvwqr.lfhpktul
joprtkt.wqpubqjoprtkpih.qbnupktnuwqtuqphhq50qwkpk.wqnyqko.qFutk.b
Wkpk.wsqJneahtpuj.qr.xftr.e.ukwqpr.qunkqfutynreqpubqtkqkp .wqp
jnuwtb.rpih.q.yynrk,qefjoqapa.rvnr qpubqepuzqy..wqknqe..kqpubq ..aqfa
vtkoqko.w.qr.xftr.e.ukwsqV.qbnqunkqwnhtjtkqbnupktnuwqtuqhnjpktnuw
vo.r.qv.qopc.qunkqr.j.tc.bqvrtkk.uqjnuytrepktnuqnyqjneahtpuj.sqKnqW.UB
BNUPKTNUWqnrqb.k.retu.qko.qwkpkfwqnyqjneahtpuj.qynrqpuzqaprktjfhpr
wkpk.qctwtkqvvvslfk.ui.rlsnrl/bnupk.

Voth.qv.qjpuunkqpubqbnqunkqwnhtjtkqjnukrtifktnuwqyrneqwkpk.wqvo.r.qv.
opc.qunkqe.kqko.qwnhtjtkpktnuqr.xftr.e.ukw,qv.q unvqnyqunqarnotitktnu
plptuwkqpjj.aktulqfuwnhtjtk.bqbnupktnuwqyrneqbnunrwqtuqwfjoqwkpk.wqvon
paarnpjoqfwqvtkoqnyy.rwqknqbnupk.s

Tuk.rupktnuphqbnupktnuwqpr.qlrpk.yfhhzqpjj.ak.b,qifkqv.qjpuunkqep .
puzqwkpk.e.ukwqjnuj.rutulqkpmqkr.pke.ukqnyqbnupktnuwqr.j.tc.bqyrne
nfkwtb.qko.qFutk.bqWkpk.wsqFsWsqhpvwqphnu.qwvpeaqnfrqwephhqwkpyys

Ah.pw.qjo.j qko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqV.iqapl.wqynrqjfrr.ukqbnupktnu
e.konbwqpubqpbbr.ww.wsqBnupktnuwqpr.qpjj.ak.bqtuqpqufei.rqnyqnko.r
vpzwqtujhfbtulqjo.j w,qnuhtu.qapze.ukwqpubqjr.btkqjprbqbnupktnuwsqKn
bnupk.,qah.pw.qctwtk:qvvvslfk.ui.rlsnrl/bnupk.

W.jktnuq5sqL.u.rphqTuynrepktnuqPinfkqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keq.h.jkrnutjqvnr ws

Arny.wwnrqEtjop.hqWsqOprkqvpwqko.qnrtltupknrqnyqko.qArng.jk
Lfk.ui.rl-keqjnuj.akqnyqpqhtirprzqnyq.h.jkrnutjqvnr wqkopkqjnfhbqi.
yr..hzqwopr.bqvtkoqpuznu.sqYnrqynrkzqz.prw,qo.qarnbfj.bqpub
btwkrtifk.bqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keq.Inn wqvtkoqnuhzqpqhnnw.qu.kvnr qny
cnhfuk..rqwfaanrks

Arng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-keq.Inn wqpr.qnyk.uqjr.pk.bqyrneqw.c.rphqartuk.b
.btktnuw,qphhqnyqvotjoqpr.qjnuytre.bqpwqunkqarnk.jk.bqizqjnazrtlokqtu
ko.qFsWsqfuh.wwqpqjnazrtlokqunktj.qtwqtujhfb.bsqKofw,qv.qbnqunk
u.j.wwprthzq ..aq.Inn wqtuqjneahtpuj.qvtkoqpuzqaprktjfhprqapa.r
.btktnus

Enwkqa.nah.qwkprkqpkqnfrqV.iqwtk.qvotjoqopwqko.qeptuqALqw.prjo
ypjthtkz:qvvvslfk.ui.rlsnrl

KotwqV.iqwtk.qtujhfb.wqtuynrepktnuqpinfkqArng.jkqLfk.ui.rl-ke,
tujhfbtulqonvqknqep .qbnupktnuwqknqko.qArng.jkqLfk.ui.rlqHtk.rprz
Prjotc.qYnfubpktnu,qonvqknqo.haqarnbfj.qnfrqu.vq.Inn w,qpubqonvqkn
wfiwjrti.qknqnfrq.epthqu.vwh.kk.rqknqo.prqpinfkqu.vq.Inn ws












