EvjrFnibjaerScejhpjnsrjPii.,rEvjrXodjruhwrUwyjhecnjtridrNipohtihrAnctij,
pzrWuhojxrWjdij


EvotrjPii.rotrdinrevjrctjridruhzihjruhz vjnjrohrevjrChoejwrTeuejtruhwrqite
ievjnrfunetridrevjr inxwruerhiraiteruhwr oevruxqiterhirnjtenoaeoiht
 vuetijyjnkrrZicrquzraifzroe,rsoyjroeru uzrinrnj-ctjroerchwjnrevjrejnqtrid
evjrFnibjaerScejhpjnsrXoajhtjrohaxcwjwr oevrevotrjPii.rinrihxohjrue
   kscejhpjnskinskrrOdrzicrunjrhierxiauejwrohrevjrChoejwrTeuejt,rzic'xxrvuyj
eiravja.revjrxu tridrevjraichenzr vjnjrzicrunjrxiauejwrpjdinjrctohsrevotrjpii.k




Eoexj:rEvjrXodjruhwrUwyjhecnjtridrNipohtihrAnctij


Ucevin:rWuhojxrWjdij



NjxjutjrWuej:rTjfejqpjnr7,r2015rr[jPii.r#521]
Evotrdoxjr utrdonterfitejwrihrDjpncunzr28,r1996
XuterCfwuejw:rHiyjqpjnr16,r2016

Xuhscusj:rJhsxotv

Avunuaejnrtjerjhaiwohs:rCED-8


***TEUNErIDrEVJrFNIBJAErSCEJHPJNSrJPII.rEVJrXODJrUHWrUWYJHECNJTrID
NIPOHTIHrANCTIJ***


Enuhtanopjwrdniqrevjr1919rTjjxjz,rTjnyoajr&rAikrjwoeoihrpzrWuyowrFnoaj,
jquoxraam074@fsxudkins





rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrEvj
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrXodjruhwrUwyjhecnjt
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrid
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrNipohtihrAnctij


rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrPz
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrWuhojxrWjdij

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr*r*r*r*r*

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr_ oevrOxxctenueoihtrpzrVkrQkrPnia._

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr*r*r*r*r*

rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrXihwih
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrTjjxjz,rTjnyoajr&rAikrXoqoejw
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr38rSnjuerNcttjxxrTenjje




AVUFEJNrO—TEUNErOHrXODJ


Or utrpinhrohrevjrzjunr1632,rohrevjraoezridrZin.,ridrursiiwrduqoxz,
evicsvrhieridrevueraichenz,rqzrduevjnrpjohsrurdinjoshjnridrPnjqjh,r vi
tjeexjwrdonteruerVcxxkrrVjrsierursiiwrjteuejrpzrqjnavuhwotj,ruhwrxjuyohs
iddrvotrenuwj,rxoyjwrudejn unwtruerZin.,rdniqr vjhajrvjrvuwrqunnojwrqz
qievjn,r vitjrnjxueoihtr jnjrhuqjwrNipohtih,ruryjnzrsiiwrduqoxzrohrevue
aichenz,ruhwrdniqr viqrOr utrauxxjwrNipohtihr.njceghujn;rpce,rpzrevj
ctcuxrainncfeoihridr inwtrohrJhsxuhw,r jrunjrhi rauxxjw—huzr jrauxx
icntjxyjtruhwr noejricnrhuqj—Anctij;ruhwrtirqzraiqfuhoihtrux uztrauxxjw
qjk

Orvuwre irjxwjnrpnievjnt,rihjridr viqr utrxojcejhuhe-aixihjxreiruh
JhsxotvrnjsoqjheridrdiierohrDxuhwjnt,rdinqjnxzraiqquhwjwrpzrevjrduqict
AixihjxrXia.vune,ruhwr utr.oxxjwruerevjrpueexjrhjunrWch.on.rusuohterevj
Tfuhounwtkrr vuerpjauqjridrqzrtjaihwrpnievjnrOrhjyjnr.hj ,ruhzrqinjrevuh
qzrduevjnrinrqievjnr.hj r vuerpjauqjridrqjk

Pjohsrevjrevonwrtihridrevjrduqoxzruhwrhierpnjwreiruhzrenuwj,rqzrvjuw
pjsuhreirpjrdoxxjwryjnzrjunxzr oevrnuqpxohsrevicsvetkrrQzrduevjn,r vir ut
yjnzruhaojhe,rvuwrsoyjhrqjruraiqfjejhertvunjridrxjunhohs,rutrdunrut
victj-jwcaueoihruhwruraichenzrdnjjrtaviixrsjhjnuxxzrsi,ruhwrwjtoshjwrqj
dinrevjrxu ;rpcerOr icxwrpjrtueotdojwr oevrhievohsrpcersiohsreirtju;ruhw
qzrohaxohueoihreirevotrxjwrqjrtirtenihsxzrusuohterevjr oxx,rhuz,revj
aiqquhwtridrqzrduevjn,ruhwrusuohteruxxrevjrjhenjueojtruhwrfjntcutoihtrid
qzrqievjnruhwrievjnrdnojhwt,revuerevjnjrtjjqjwreirpjrtiqjevohsrdueuxroh
evuerfnifjhtoezridrhuecnj,rejhwohsrwonjaexzreirevjrxodjridrqotjnzr voav
 utreirpjduxxrqjk

Qzrduevjn,rur otjruhwrsnuyjrquh,rsuyjrqjrtjnoictruhwrjmajxxjheraichtjx
usuohter vuervjrdinjtu r utrqzrwjtoshkrrVjrauxxjwrqjrihjrqinhohsroheirvot
avuqpjn,r vjnjrvjr utraihdohjwrpzrevjrsice,ruhwrjmfitecxuejwryjnzr unqxz
 oevrqjrcfihrevotrtcpbjaekrrVjrut.jwrqjr vuernjutiht,rqinjrevuhrurqjnj
 uhwjnohsrohaxohueoih,rOrvuwrdinrxjuyohsrduevjn’trvictjruhwrqzrhueoyj
aichenz,r vjnjrOrqosverpjr jxxroheniwcajw,ruhwrvuwrurfnitfjaeridrnuotohs
qzrdinechjrpzruffxoaueoihruhwrohwctenz,r oevrurxodjridrjutjruhwrfxjutcnjk
Vjreixwrqjroer utrqjhridrwjtfjnuejrdinechjtrihrihjrvuhw,rinridrutfonohs,
tcfjnoinrdinechjtrihrevjrievjn,r vir jherupniuwrcfihruwyjhecnjt,reirnotj
pzrjhejnfnotj,ruhwrqu.jrevjqtjxyjtrduqictrohrchwjneu.ohstridrurhuecnjrice
idrevjraiqqihrniuw;revuerevjtjrevohstr jnjruxxrjoevjnreiirdunrupiyjrqjrin
eiirdunrpjxi rqj;revuerqohjr utrevjrqowwxjrteuej,rinr vuerqosverpjrauxxjw
evjrcffjnrteueoihridrxi rxodj,r voavrvjrvuwrdichw,rpzrxihsrjmfjnojhaj,
 utrevjrpjterteuejrohrevjr inxw,revjrqitertcoejwreirvcquhrvuffohjtt,rhie
jmfitjwreirevjrqotjnojtruhwrvunwtvoft,revjrxupicnruhwrtcddjnohstridrevj
qjavuhoarfuneridrquh.ohw,ruhwrhierjqpunnuttjwr oevrevjrfnowj,rxcmcnz,
uqpoeoih,ruhwrjhyzridrevjrcffjnrfuneridrquh.ohwkrrVjreixwrqjrOrqosve
bcwsjridrevjrvuffohjttridrevotrteuejrpzrevotrihjrevohs—yogkrevuerevotr ut
evjrteuejridrxodjr voavruxxrievjnrfjifxjrjhyojw;revuer.ohstrvuyj
dnjlcjhexzrxuqjhejwrevjrqotjnupxjraihtjlcjhajridrpjohsrpinhreirsnjue
evohst,ruhwr otvjwrevjzrvuwrpjjhrfxuajwrohrevjrqowwxjridrevjre i
jmenjqjt,rpje jjhrevjrqjuhruhwrevjrsnjue;revuerevjr otjrquhrsuyjrvot
ejteoqihzreirevot,rutrevjrteuhwunwridrdjxoaoez,r vjhrvjrfnuzjwreirvuyj
hjoevjnrfiyjnezrhinrnoavjtk

Vjrpuwjrqjriptjnyjroe,ruhwrOrtvicxwrux uztrdohwrevuerevjrauxuqoeojtrid
xodjr jnjrtvunjwruqihsrevjrcffjnruhwrxi jnrfuneridrquh.ohw,rpcerevuerevj
qowwxjrteueoihrvuwrevjrdj jterwotutejnt,ruhwr utrhierjmfitjwreirtirquhz
yoaottoecwjtrutrevjrvosvjnrinrxi jnrfuneridrquh.ohw;rhuz,revjzr jnjrhie
tcpbjaejwreirtirquhzrwotejqfjntruhwrchjutohjttjt,rjoevjnridrpiwzrinrqohw,
utrevitjr jnjr vi,rpzryoaoictrxoyohs,rxcmcnz,ruhwrjmenuyusuhajtrihrevj
ihjrvuhw,rinrpzrvunwrxupicn,r uheridrhjajttunojt,ruhwrqjuhrin
ohtcddoaojherwojerihrevjrievjnrvuhw,rpnohsrwotejqfjnrcfihrevjqtjxyjtrpz
evjrhuecnuxraihtjlcjhajtridrevjonr uzridrxoyohs;revuerevjrqowwxjrteueoih
idrxodjr utrauxacxuejwrdinruxxr.ohwridryonecjruhwruxxr.ohwridrjhbizqjhet;
evuerfjuajruhwrfxjhezr jnjrevjrvuhwquowtridrurqowwxjrdinechj;revue
ejqfjnuhaj,rqiwjnueoih,rlcojehjtt,rvjuxev,rtiaojez,ruxxrusnjjupxj
woyjntoiht,ruhwruxxrwjtonupxjrfxjutcnjt,r jnjrevjrpxjttohstrueejhwohsrevj
qowwxjrteueoihridrxodj;revuerevotr uzrqjhr jhertoxjhexzruhwrtqiievxz
evnicsvrevjr inxw,ruhwraiqdineupxzriceridroe,rhierjqpunnuttjwr oevrevj
xupicntridrevjrvuhwtrinridrevjrvjuw,rhiertixwreirurxodjridrtxuyjnzrdin
wuoxzrpnjuw,rhinrvunuttjwr oevrfjnfxjmjwraonacqteuhajt,r voavrniprevj
ticxridrfjuajruhwrevjrpiwzridrnjte,rhinrjhnusjwr oevrevjrfuttoihridrjhyz,
inrevjrtjanjerpcnhohsrxcteridruqpoeoihrdinrsnjuerevohst;rpce,rohrjutz
aonacqteuhajt,rtxowohsrsjhexzrevnicsvrevjr inxw,ruhwrtjhtopxzreuteohsrevj
t jjetridrxoyohs,r oevicerevjrpoeejn;rdjjxohsrevuerevjzrunjrvuffz,ruhw
xjunhohsrpzrjyjnzrwuz’trjmfjnojhajreir.hi roerqinjrtjhtopxzk

Udejnrevotrvjrfnjttjwrqjrjunhjtexz,ruhwrohrevjrqiteruddjaeoihuejrquhhjn,
hiereirfxuzrevjrzichsrquh,rhinreirfnjaofoeuejrqztjxdroheirqotjnojtr voav
huecnj,ruhwrevjrteueoihridrxodjrOr utrpinhroh,rtjjqjwreirvuyjrfniyowjw
usuohte;revuerOr utrchwjnrhirhjajttoezridrtjj.ohsrqzrpnjuw;revuervjr icxw
wir jxxrdinrqj,ruhwrjhwjuyicnreirjhejnrqjrduonxzroheirevjrteueoihridrxodj
 voavrvjrvuwrbcterpjjhrnjaiqqjhwohsreirqj;ruhwrevuerodrOr utrhieryjnz
jutzruhwrvuffzrohrevjr inxw,roerqcterpjrqzrqjnjrduejrinrducxerevuerqcte
vohwjnroe;ruhwrevuervjrtvicxwrvuyjrhievohsreiruht jnrdin,rvuyohsrevct
wotavunsjwrvotrwcezrohr unhohsrqjrusuohterqjutcnjtr voavrvjr.hj r icxwrpj
eirqzrvcne;rohrur inw,revuerutrvjr icxwrwiryjnzr.ohwrevohstrdinrqjrodrO
 icxwrteuzruhwrtjeexjruerviqjrutrvjrwonjaejw,rtirvjr icxwrhiervuyjrti
qcavrvuhwrohrqzrqotdinechjtrutreirsoyjrqjruhzrjhaicnusjqjhereirsiru uz;
uhwreiraxitjruxx,rvjreixwrqjrOrvuwrqzrjxwjnrpnievjnrdinruhrjmuqfxj,rei
 viqrvjrvuwrctjwrevjrtuqjrjunhjterfjntcutoihtreir.jjfrvoqrdniqrsiohsrohei
evjrXi rAichenzr unt,rpceraicxwrhierfnjyuox,rvotrzichsrwjtonjtrfniqfeohs
voqreirnchroheirevjrunqz,r vjnjrvjr utr.oxxjw;ruhwrevicsvrvjrtuowrvj
 icxwrhierajutjreirfnuzrdinrqj,rzjervjr icxwryjhecnjreirtuzreirqj,revue
odrOrwowreu.jrevotrdiixotvrtejf,rSiwr icxwrhierpxjttrqj,ruhwrOrtvicxw
vuyjrxjotcnjrvjnjudejnreirnjdxjaercfihrvuyohsrhjsxjaejwrvotraichtjxr vjh
evjnjrqosverpjrhihjreiruttoterohrqzrnjaiyjnzk

Oriptjnyjwrohrevotrxuterfuneridrvotrwotaicntj,r voavr utrencxzrfnifvjeoa,
evicsvrOrtcffitjrqzrduevjnrwowrhier.hi roereirpjrtirvoqtjxd—Ortuz,rO
iptjnyjwrevjrejuntrnchrwi hrvotrduajryjnzrfxjheodcxxz,rjtfjaouxxzr vjhrvj
tfi.jridrqzrpnievjnr vir utr.oxxjw:ruhwrevuer vjhrvjrtfi.jridrqzrvuyohs
xjotcnjreirnjfjhe,ruhwrhihjreiruttoterqj,rvjr utrtirqiyjwrevuervjrpni.j
iddrevjrwotaicntj,ruhwreixwrqjrvotrvjuner utrtirdcxxrvjraicxwrtuzrhirqinj
eirqjk

Or utrtohajnjxzruddjaejwr oevrevotrwotaicntj,ruhw,rohwjjw,r viraicxwrpj
ievjn otj?ruhwrOrnjtixyjwrhiereirevoh.ridrsiohsrupniuwruhzrqinj,rpcerei
tjeexjruerviqjruaainwohsreirqzrduevjn’trwjtonjkrrPceruxut!rurdj rwuzt
 injroeruxxridd;ruhw,rohrtvine,reirfnjyjheruhzridrqzrduevjn’trdcnevjn
oqfinechoeojt,rohrurdj r jj.trudejnrOrnjtixyjwreirnchrlcoejru uzrdniq
voqkrrVi jyjn,rOrwowrhieruaerlcoejrtirvuteoxzrutrevjrdontervjueridrqz
njtixceoihrfniqfejw;rpcerOreii.rqzrqievjnruerureoqjr vjhrOrevicsvervjnru
xoeexjrqinjrfxjutuherevuhrinwohunz,ruhwreixwrvjnrevuerqzrevicsvetr jnjrti
jheonjxzrpjhercfihrtjjohsrevjr inxwrevuerOrtvicxwrhjyjnrtjeexjrei
uhzevohsr oevrnjtixceoihrjhicsvreirsirevnicsvr oevroe,ruhwrqzrduevjnrvuw
pjeejnrsoyjrqjrvotraihtjherevuhrdinajrqjreirsir oeviceroe;revuerOr utrhi 
josvejjhrzjuntrixw,r voavr utreiirxuejreirsiruffnjheoajreirurenuwjrin
axjn.reiruhrueeinhjz;revuerOr utrtcnjrodrOrwowrOrtvicxwrhjyjnrtjnyjrice
qzreoqj,rpcerOrtvicxwrajneuohxzrnchru uzrdniqrqzrqutejnrpjdinjrqzreoqj
 utrice,ruhwrsireirtju;ruhwrodrtvjr icxwrtfju.reirqzrduevjnreirxjerqjrsi
ihjryizusjrupniuw,rodrOrauqjrviqjrusuoh,ruhwrwowrhierxo.jroe,rOr icxwrsi
hirqinj;ruhwrOr icxwrfniqotj,rpzrurwicpxjrwoxosjhaj,reirnjaiyjnrevjreoqj
evuerOrvuwrxitek

Evotrfcerqzrqievjnroheirursnjuerfuttoih;rtvjreixwrqjrtvjr.hj roer icxwrpj
eirhirfcnfitjreirtfju.reirqzrduevjnrcfihruhzrtcavrtcpbjae;revuervjr.hj 
eiir jxxr vuer utrqzrohejnjtereirsoyjrvotraihtjhereiruhzevohsrtirqcavrdin
qzrvcne;ruhwrevuertvjr ihwjnjwrvi rOraicxwrevoh.ridruhzrtcavrevohsrudejn
evjrwotaicntjrOrvuwrvuwr oevrqzrduevjn,ruhwrtcavr.ohwruhwrejhwjn
jmfnjttoihtrutrtvjr.hj rqzrduevjnrvuwrctjwreirqj;ruhwrevue,rohrtvine,rod
Or icxwrncohrqztjxd,revjnjr utrhirvjxfrdinrqj;rpcerOrqosverwjfjhwrO
tvicxwrhjyjnrvuyjrevjonraihtjhereiroe;revuerdinrvjnrfunertvjr icxwrhie
vuyjrtirqcavrvuhwrohrqzrwjtencaeoih;ruhwrOrtvicxwrhjyjnrvuyjroereirtuz
evuerqzrqievjnr utr oxxohsr vjhrqzrduevjnr utrhiek

Evicsvrqzrqievjnrnjdctjwreirqiyjroereirqzrduevjn,rzjerOrvjunwrudejn unwt
evuertvjrnjfinejwruxxrevjrwotaicntjreirvoq,ruhwrevuerqzrduevjn,rudejn
tvi ohsrursnjueraihajnhrueroe,rtuowreirvjn,r oevrurtosv,r“Evuerpizrqosve
pjrvuffzrodrvjr icxwrteuzruerviqj;rpcerodrvjrsijtrupniuw,rvjr oxxrpjrevj
qiterqotjnupxjr njeavrevuerjyjnr utrpinh:rOrauhrsoyjrhiraihtjhereiroek”

Oer utrhiereoxxruxqiterurzjunrudejnrevotrevuerOrpni.jrxiitj,revicsv,roh
evjrqjuheoqj,rOraiheohcjwripteohuejxzrwjudreiruxxrfnifituxtridrtjeexohs
eirpctohjtt,ruhwrdnjlcjhexzrjmfitecxuejwr oevrqzrduevjnruhwrqievjnrupice
evjonrpjohsrtirfitoeoyjxzrwjejnqohjwrusuohter vuerevjzr.hj rqz
ohaxohueoihtrfniqfejwrqjreikrrPcerpjohsrihjrwuzruerVcxx,r vjnjrOr jhe
autcuxxz,ruhwr oeviceruhzrfcnfitjridrqu.ohsruhrjxifjqjheruerevuereoqj;
pce,rOrtuz,rpjohsrevjnj,ruhwrihjridrqzraiqfuhoihtrpjohsrupicereirtuoxrei
Xihwihrohrvotrduevjn’trtvof,ruhwrfniqfeohsrqjreirsir oevrevjqr oevrevj
aiqqihruxxcnjqjheridrtjudunohsrqjh,revueroertvicxwraiterqjrhievohsrdinrqz
futtusj,rOraihtcxejwrhjoevjnrduevjnrhinrqievjnruhzrqinj,rhinrtirqcavrut
tjherevjqr inwridroe;rpcerxjuyohsrevjqreirvjunridroerutrevjzrqosve,
 oevicerut.ohsrSiw’trpxjttohsrinrqzrduevjn’t,r oeviceruhzraihtowjnueoih
idraonacqteuhajtrinraihtjlcjhajt,ruhwrohruhroxxrvicn,rSiwr.hi t,rihrevj
1teridrTjfejqpjnr1651,rOr jherihrpiunwrurtvofrpichwrdinrXihwihkrrHjyjn
uhzrzichsruwyjhecnjn’trqotdinechjt,rOrpjxojyj,rpjsuhrtiihjn,rinraiheohcjw
xihsjnrevuhrqohjkrrEvjrtvofr utrhirtiihjnriceridrevjrVcqpjnrevuhrevjr ohw
pjsuhreirpxi ruhwrevjrtjureirnotjrohrurqiterdnosvedcxrquhhjn;ruhw,rutrO
vuwrhjyjnrpjjhruertjurpjdinj,rOr utrqiterohjmfnjttopxzrtoa.rohrpiwzruhw
ejnnodojwrohrqohwkrrOrpjsuhrhi rtjnoictxzreirnjdxjaercfihr vuerOrvuw
wihj,ruhwrvi rbctexzrOr utriyjneu.jhrpzrevjrbcwsqjheridrVjuyjhrdinrqz
 oa.jwrxjuyohsrqzrduevjn’trvictj,ruhwrupuhwihohsrqzrwcezkrrUxxrevjrsiiw
aichtjxtridrqzrfunjhet,rqzrduevjn’trejuntruhwrqzrqievjn’trjhenjueojt,
auqjrhi rdnjtvroheirqzrqohw;ruhwrqzraihtaojhaj,r voavr utrhierzjeraiqjrei
evjrfoeavridrvunwhjttreir voavroervutrtohaj,rnjfniuavjwrqjr oevrevj
aihejqferidruwyoaj,ruhwrevjrpnjuavridrqzrwcezreirSiwruhwrqzrduevjnk

Uxxrevotr voxjrevjrteinqrohanjutjw,ruhwrevjrtjur jheryjnzrvosv,revicsv
hievohsrxo.jr vuerOrvuyjrtjjhrquhzreoqjtrtohaj;rhi,rhinr vuerOrtu rurdj 
wuztrudejn;rpceroer utrjhicsvreiruddjaerqjrevjh,r vir utrpcerurzichs
tuoxin,ruhwrvuwrhjyjnr.hi hruhzevohsridrevjrqueejnkrrOrjmfjaejwrjyjnz
 uyjr icxwrvuyjrt uxxi jwrctrcf,ruhwrevuerjyjnzreoqjrevjrtvofrdjxxrwi h,
utrOrevicsveroerwow,rohrevjrenicsvrinrvixxi ridrevjrtju,r jrtvicxwrhjyjn
notjrqinj;rohrevotrusihzridrqohw,rOrquwjrquhzryi truhwrnjtixceoihtrevue
odroer icxwrfxjutjrSiwreirtfunjrqzrxodjrohrevotrihjryizusj,rodrjyjnrOrsie
ihajrqzrdiiercfihrwnzrxuhwrusuoh,rOr icxwrsirwonjaexzrviqjreirqzrduevjn,
uhwrhjyjnrtjeroeroheirurtvofrusuohr voxjrOrxoyjw;revuerOr icxwreu.jrvot
uwyoaj,ruhwrhjyjnrnchrqztjxdroheirtcavrqotjnojtrutrevjtjruhzrqinjkrrHi rO
tu rfxuohxzrevjrsiiwhjttridrvotriptjnyueoihtrupicerevjrqowwxjrteueoihrid
xodj,rvi rjutz,rvi raiqdineupxzrvjrvuwrxoyjwruxxrvotrwuzt,ruhwrhjyjnrvuw
pjjhrjmfitjwreirejqfjtetruertjurinrenicpxjtrihrtvinj;ruhwrOrnjtixyjwrevue
Or icxw,rxo.jrurencjrnjfjheohsrfniwosux,rsirviqjreirqzrduevjnk

Evjtjr otjruhwrtipjnrevicsvetraiheohcjwruxxrevjr voxjrevjrteinqrxutejw,
uhwrohwjjwrtiqjreoqjrudejn;rpcerevjrhjmerwuzrevjr ohwr utrupuejw,ruhwrevj
tjurauxqjn,ruhwrOrpjsuhreirpjrurxoeexjrohcnjwreiroe;rvi jyjn,rOr utryjnz
snuyjrdinruxxrevuerwuz,rpjohsruxtirurxoeexjrtju-toa.rteoxx;rpcerei unwt
hosverevjr juevjnraxjunjwrcf,revjr ohwr utrlcoejriyjn,ruhwruravunqohs
dohjrjyjhohsrdixxi jw;revjrtchr jherwi hrfjndjaexzraxjun,ruhwrnitjrtirevj
hjmerqinhohs;ruhwrvuyohsrxoeexjrinrhir ohw,ruhwrurtqiievrtju,revjrtch
tvohohsrcfihroe,revjrtosver ut,rutrOrevicsve,revjrqiterwjxosvedcxrevue
jyjnrOrtu k

Orvuwrtxjfer jxxrohrevjrhosve,ruhwr utrhi rhirqinjrtju-toa.,rpceryjnz
avjjndcx,rxii.ohsr oevr ihwjnrcfihrevjrtjurevuer utrtirnicsvruhwrejnnopxj
evjrwuzrpjdinj,ruhwraicxwrpjrtirauxqruhwrtirfxjutuherohrtirxoeexjrureoqj
udejnkrrUhwrhi ,rxjterqzrsiiwrnjtixceoihtrtvicxwraiheohcj,rqzraiqfuhoih,
 virvuwrjheoajwrqjru uz,raiqjtreirqj;r“ jxx,rPip,”rtuztrvj,raxuffohsrqj
cfihrevjrtvicxwjn,r“vi rwirzicrwirudejnroe?rrOr unnuherzicr jnjrdnosvejw,
 jn’h’erzic,rxuterhosve,r vjhroerpxj rpceruraufdcxridr ohw?”rr“Uraufdcx
w’zicrauxxroe?”rtuowrO;r“’e utrurejnnopxjrteinqk”rr“Urteinq,rzicrdiix
zic,”rnjfxojtrvj;r“wirzicrauxxrevuerurteinq?r vz,roer utrhievohsrueruxx;
soyjrctrpcerursiiwrtvofruhwrtju-niiq,ruhwr jrevoh.rhievohsridrtcavru
tlcuxxridr ohwrutrevue;rpcerzic’njrpcerurdnjtv- uejnrtuoxin,rPipkrrAiqj,
xjerctrqu.jrurpi xridrfchav,ruhwr j’xxrdinsjeruxxrevue;rw’zjrtjjr vue
avunqohsr juevjnr’eotrhi ?”rrEirqu.jrtvinerevotrtuwrfuneridrqzrteinz,r j
 jherevjr uzridruxxrtuoxint;revjrfchavr utrquwjruhwrOr utrquwjrvuxdrwnch.
 oevroe:ruhwrohrevuerihjrhosve’tr oa.jwhjttrOrwni hjwruxxrqzrnjfjheuhaj,
uxxrqzrnjdxjaeoihtrcfihrqzrfuteraihwcae,ruxxrqzrnjtixceoihtrdinrevj
dcecnjkrrOhrur inw,rutrevjrtjur utrnjecnhjwreiroetrtqiievhjttridrtcnduaj
uhwrtjeexjwrauxqhjttrpzrevjrupuejqjheridrevuerteinq,rtirevjrvcnnzridrqz
evicsvetrpjohsriyjn,rqzrdjuntruhwruffnjvjhtoihtridrpjohsrt uxxi jwrcfrpz
evjrtjurpjohsrdinsieejh,ruhwrevjracnnjheridrqzrdinqjnrwjtonjtrnjecnhjw,rO
jheonjxzrdinsierevjryi truhwrfniqotjtrevuerOrquwjrohrqzrwotenjttkrrO
dichw,rohwjjw,rtiqjrohejnyuxtridrnjdxjaeoih;ruhwrevjrtjnoictrevicsvet
wow,rutroer jnj,rjhwjuyicnreirnjecnhrusuohrtiqjeoqjt;rpcerOrtvii.revjq
idd,ruhwrnictjwrqztjxdrdniqrevjqrutroer jnjrdniqrurwotejqfjn,ruhw
uffxzohsrqztjxdreirwnoh.ohsruhwraiqfuhz,rtiihrqutejnjwrevjrnjecnhrid
evitjrdoet—dinrtirOrauxxjwrevjq;ruhwrOrvuwrohrdoyjrinrtomrwuztrsierut
aiqfxjejruryoaeinzriyjnraihtaojhajrutruhzrzichsrdjxxi revuernjtixyjwrhie
eirpjrenicpxjwr oevroeraicxwrwjtonjkrrPcerOr utreirvuyjruhievjnrenouxrdin
oerteoxx;ruhwrFniyowjhaj,rutrohrtcavrautjtrsjhjnuxxzroerwijt,rnjtixyjwrei
xjuyjrqjrjheonjxzr oevicerjmactj;rdinrodrOr icxwrhiereu.jrevotrdinru
wjxoyjnuhaj,revjrhjmer utreirpjrtcavrurihjrutrevjr interuhwrqitervunwjhjw
 njeavruqihsrctr icxwraihdjttrpievrevjrwuhsjnruhwrevjrqjnazridk

Evjrtomevrwuzridricnrpjohsruertjur jrauqjroheirZunqicevrNiuwt;revjr ohw
vuyohsrpjjhraihenunzruhwrevjr juevjnrauxq,r jrvuwrquwjrpcerxoeexjr uz
tohajrevjrteinqkrrVjnjr jr jnjripxosjwreiraiqjreiruhruhavin,ruhwrvjnjr j
xuz,revjr ohwraiheohcohsraihenunz—yogkruerticev- jte—dinrtjyjhrinrjosve
wuzt,rwcnohsr voavreoqjrursnjuerquhzrtvoftrdniqrHj autexjrauqjroheirevj
tuqjrNiuwt,rutrevjraiqqihrvunpicnr vjnjrevjrtvoftrqosver uoerdinrur ohw
dinrevjrnoyjnk

 jrvuwrhie,rvi jyjn,rnowrvjnjrtirxihsrpcer jrtvicxwrvuyjreowjwroercfrevj
noyjn,rpcerevuerevjr ohwrpxj reiirdnjtv,ruhwrudejnr jrvuwrxuohrdicnrin
doyjrwuzt,rpxj ryjnzrvunwkrrVi jyjn,revjrNiuwtrpjohsrnja.ihjwrutrsiiwrut
urvunpicn,revjruhavinusjrsiiw,ruhwricnrsnichw-eua.xjryjnzrtenihs,ricnrqjh
 jnjrchaihajnhjw,ruhwrhierohrevjrxjuteruffnjvjhtoyjridrwuhsjn,rpcertfjhe
evjreoqjrohrnjteruhwrqonev,rudejnrevjrquhhjnridrevjrtju;rpcerevjrjosvev
wuz,rohrevjrqinhohs,revjr ohwrohanjutjw,ruhwr jrvuwruxxrvuhwtruer in.rei
teno.jricnreifqutet,ruhwrqu.jrjyjnzevohsrthcsruhwraxitj,revuerevjrtvof
qosvernowjrutrjutzrutrfittopxjkrrPzrhiihrevjrtjur jheryjnzrvosvrohwjjw,
uhwricnrtvofrniwjrdinjautexjroh,rtvoffjwrtjyjnuxrtjut,ruhwr jrevicsve
ihajrinre oajricnruhavinrvuwraiqjrviqj;rcfihr voavricnrqutejnrinwjnjwrice
evjrtvjje-uhavin,rtirevuer jrniwjr oevre iruhavintruvjuw,ruhwrevjraupxjt
yjjnjwricereirevjrpoeejnrjhwk

Pzrevotreoqjroerpxj rurejnnopxjrteinqrohwjjw;ruhwrhi rOrpjsuhreirtjj
ejnninruhwruqugjqjherohrevjrduajtrjyjhridrevjrtjuqjhrevjqtjxyjtkrrEvj
qutejn,revicsvryosoxuherohrevjrpctohjttridrfnjtjnyohsrevjrtvof,rzjerutrvj
 jherohruhwriceridrvotraupohrpzrqj,rOraicxwrvjunrvoqrtidexzreirvoqtjxd
tuz,rtjyjnuxreoqjt,r“Xinwrpjrqjnaodcxreirct!r jrtvuxxrpjruxxrxite!r j
tvuxxrpjruxxrchwihj!”ruhwrevjrxo.jkrrWcnohsrevjtjrdontervcnnojtrOr ut
tecfow,rxzohsrteoxxrohrqzraupoh,r voavr utrohrevjrtejjnusj,ruhwrauhhie
wjtanopjrqzrejqfjn:rOraicxwroxxrnjtcqjrevjrdonterfjhoejhajr voavrOrvuwrti
uffunjhexzrenuqfxjwrcfihruhwrvunwjhjwrqztjxdrusuohte:rOrevicsverevj
poeejnhjttridrwjuevrvuwrpjjhrfute,ruhwrevuerevotr icxwrpjrhievohsrxo.j
evjrdonte;rpcer vjhrevjrqutejnrvoqtjxdrauqjrpzrqj,rutrOrtuowrbcterhi ,
uhwrtuowr jrtvicxwrpjruxxrxite,rOr utrwnjuwdcxxzrdnosvejwkrrOrsiercfrice
idrqzraupohruhwrxii.jwrice;rpcertcavrurwotquxrtosverOrhjyjnrtu :revjrtju
nuhrqicheuohtrvosv,ruhwrpni.jrcfihrctrjyjnzrevnjjrinrdicnrqohcejt;r vjhrO
aicxwrxii.rupice,rOraicxwrtjjrhievohsrpcerwotenjttrnichwrct;re irtvoft
evuerniwjrhjunrct,r jrdichw,rvuwracerevjonrqutetrpzrevjrpiunw,rpjohsrwjjf
xuwjh;ruhwricnrqjhranojwricerevuerurtvofr voavrniwjrupicerurqoxjruvjuwrid
ctr utrdichwjnjwkrrE irqinjrtvoft,rpjohsrwnoyjhrdniqrevjonruhavint,r jnj
nchriceridrevjrNiuwtreirtju,rueruxxruwyjhecnjt,ruhwrevuer oevrhierurqute
teuhwohskrrEvjrxosvertvoftrdunjwrevjrpjte,rutrhiertirqcavrxupicnohsroh
evjrtju;rpcere irinrevnjjridrevjqrwniyj,ruhwrauqjraxitjrpzrct,rnchhohs
u uzr oevrihxzrevjonrtfnoetuoxricerpjdinjrevjr ohwk

Ei unwtrjyjhohsrevjrquejruhwrpiuet uohrpjssjwrevjrqutejnridricnrtvofrei
xjerevjqraceru uzrevjrdinj-qute,r voavrvjr utryjnzrch oxxohsreirwi;rpce
evjrpiuet uohrfniejteohsreirvoqrevuerodrvjrwowrhierevjrtvofr icxw
dichwjn,rvjraihtjhejw;ruhwr vjhrevjzrvuwraceru uzrevjrdinj-qute,revj
quoh-quterteiiwrtirxiitj,ruhwrtvii.revjrtvofrtirqcav,revjzr jnjripxosjw
eiracerevueru uzruxti,ruhwrqu.jruraxjunrwja.k

Uhzrihjrquzrbcwsjr vueruraihwoeoihrOrqcterpjrohrueruxxrevot,r vir utrpce
urzichsrtuoxin,ruhwr virvuwrpjjhrohrtcavrurdnosverpjdinjruerpcerurxoeexjk
PcerodrOrauhrjmfnjttruerevotrwoteuhajrevjrevicsvetrOrvuwrupicerqjruerevue
eoqj,rOr utrohrejhdixwrqinjrvinninridrqohwrcfihruaaicheridrqzrdinqjn
aihyoaeoiht,ruhwrevjrvuyohsrnjecnhjwrdniqrevjqreirevjrnjtixceoihtrOrvuw
 oa.jwxzreu.jhruerdonte,revuhrOr utruerwjuevroetjxd;ruhwrevjtj,ruwwjwrei
evjrejnninridrevjrteinq,rfcerqjroheirtcavruraihwoeoihrevuerOrauhrpzrhi
 inwtrwjtanopjroekrrPcerevjr inter utrhieraiqjrzje;revjrteinqraiheohcjw
 oevrtcavrdcnzrevuerevjrtjuqjhrevjqtjxyjtrua.hi xjwsjwrevjzrvuwrhjyjn
tjjhrur intjkrr jrvuwrursiiwrtvof,rpcertvjr utrwjjfrxuwjh,ruhwr uxxi jw
ohrevjrtju,rtirevuerevjrtjuqjhrjyjnzrhi ruhwrevjhranojwricertvjr icxw
dichwjnkrrOer utrqzruwyuheusjrohrihjrnjtfjae,revuerOrwowrhier.hi r vue
evjzrqjuherpzr_dichwjn_reoxxrOrohlconjwkrrVi jyjn,revjrteinqr utrti
yoixjherevuerOrtu ,r vuerotrhieridejhrtjjh,revjrqutejn,revjrpiuet uoh,
uhwrtiqjrievjntrqinjrtjhtopxjrevuhrevjrnjte,ruerevjonrfnuzjnt,ruhw
jmfjaeohsrjyjnzrqiqjher vjhrevjrtvofr icxwrsireirevjrpieeiqkrrOhrevj
qowwxjridrevjrhosve,ruhwrchwjnruxxrevjrnjteridricnrwotenjttjt,rihjridrevj
qjhrevuervuwrpjjhrwi hreirtjjranojwricer jrvuwrtfnchsrurxju.;ruhievjn
tuowrevjnjr utrdicnrdjjer uejnrohrevjrvixwkrrEvjhruxxrvuhwtr jnjrauxxjw
eirevjrfcqfkrrUerevuer inw,rqzrvjune,rutrOrevicsve,rwojwr oevohrqj:ruhwrO
djxxrpua. unwtrcfihrevjrtowjridrqzrpjwr vjnjrOrtue,roheirevjraupohk
Vi jyjn,revjrqjhrnictjwrqj,ruhwreixwrqjrevuerO,revuer utrupxjreirwi
hievohsrpjdinj,r utrutr jxxrupxjreirfcqfrutruhievjn;ruer voavrOrteonnjw
cfruhwr jhereirevjrfcqf,ruhwr in.jwryjnzrvjuneoxzkrr voxjrevotr utrwiohs
evjrqutejn,rtjjohsrtiqjrxosveraixxojnt,r vi,rhierupxjreirnowjricerevj
teinqr jnjripxosjwreirtxofruhwrnchru uzreirtju,ruhwr icxwraiqjrhjunrct,
inwjnjwreirdonjrurschrutrurtoshuxridrwotenjttkrrO,r vir.hj rhievohsr vue
evjzrqjuhe,revicsverevjrtvofrvuwrpni.jh,rinrtiqjrwnjuwdcxrevohsrvuffjhjwk
Ohrur inw,rOr utrtirtcnfnotjwrevuerOrdjxxrwi hrohrurt iihkrrUtrevotr utru
eoqjr vjhrjyjnzpiwzrvuwrvotri hrxodjreirevoh.rid,rhipiwzrqohwjwrqj,rin
 vuer utrpjaiqjridrqj;rpceruhievjnrquhrtejffjwrcfreirevjrfcqf,ruhw
evncteohsrqjrutowjr oevrvotrdiie,rxjerqjrxoj,revoh.ohsrOrvuwrpjjhrwjuw;
uhwroer utrursnjuer voxjrpjdinjrOrauqjreirqztjxdk

 jr in.jwrih;rpcerevjr uejnrohanjutohsrohrevjrvixw,roer utruffunjherevue
evjrtvofr icxwrdichwjn;ruhwrevicsvrevjrteinqrpjsuhreirupuejrurxoeexj,rzje
oer utrhierfittopxjrtvjraicxwrt oqreoxxr jrqosvernchroheiruhzrfine;rti
evjrqutejnraiheohcjwrdonohsrschtrdinrvjxf;ruhwrurxosvertvof,r virvuwrnow
oericerbcteruvjuwridrct,ryjhecnjwrurpiuericereirvjxfrctkrrOer utr oevrevj
ceqitervugunwrevjrpiuerauqjrhjunrct;rpceroer utroqfittopxjrdinrctreirsje
ihrpiunw,rinrdinrevjrpiuereirxojrhjunrevjrtvof’trtowj,reoxxruerxuterevj
qjhrni ohsryjnzrvjuneoxz,ruhwryjhecnohsrevjonrxoyjtreirtuyjricnt,ricnrqjh
auterevjqrurnifjriyjnrevjrtejnhr oevrurpcizreiroe,ruhwrevjhryjjnjwroerice
ursnjuerxjhsev,r voavrevjz,rudejnrqcavrxupicnruhwrvugunw,reii.rvixwrid,
uhwr jrvucxjwrevjqraxitjrchwjnricnrtejnh,ruhwrsieruxxroheirevjonrpiuek
Oer utreirhirfcnfitjrdinrevjqrinrct,rudejnr jr jnjrohrevjrpiue,reirevoh.
idrnjuavohsrevjonri hrtvof;rtiruxxrusnjjwreirxjervjnrwnoyj,ruhwrihxzrei
fcxxrvjnrohrei unwtrtvinjrutrqcavrutr jraicxw;ruhwricnrqutejnrfniqotjw
evjq,revuerodrevjrpiuer utrteuyjwrcfihrtvinj,rvjr icxwrqu.jroersiiwrei
evjonrqutejn:rtirfunexzrni ohsruhwrfunexzrwnoyohs,ricnrpiuer jheru uzrei
evjrhinev unw,rtxifohsrei unwtrevjrtvinjruxqiterutrdunrutr ohejneihrHjttk

 jr jnjrhierqcavrqinjrevuhrurlcunejnridruhrvicnriceridricnrtvofreoxxr j
tu rvjnrtoh.,ruhwrevjhrOrchwjnteiiwrdinrevjrdontereoqjr vuer utrqjuherpz
urtvofrdichwjnohsrohrevjrtjukrrOrqcterua.hi xjwsjrOrvuwrvunwxzrjzjtrei
xii.rcfr vjhrevjrtjuqjhreixwrqjrtvjr utrtoh.ohs;rdinrdniqrevjrqiqjherevue
evjzrnuevjnrfcerqjroheirevjrpiuerevuhrevuerOrqosverpjrtuowreirsiroh,rqz
vjuner ut,rutroer jnj,rwjuwr oevohrqj,rfunexzr oevrdnosve,rfunexzr oev
vinninridrqohw,ruhwrevjrevicsvetridr vuer utrzjerpjdinjrqjk

 voxjr jr jnjrohrevotraihwoeoih—evjrqjhrzjerxupicnohsruerevjriunreirpnohs
evjrpiuerhjunrevjrtvinj— jraicxwrtjjr( vjh,ricnrpiuerqicheohsrevjr uyjt,
 jr jnjrupxjreirtjjrevjrtvinj)rursnjuerquhzrfjifxjrnchhohsruxihsrevj
tenuhwreiruttoterctr vjhr jrtvicxwraiqjrhjun;rpcer jrquwjrpcertxi r uz
ei unwtrevjrtvinj;rhinr jnjr jrupxjreirnjuavrevjrtvinjreoxx,rpjohsrfute
evjrxosvevictjruer ohejneih,revjrtvinjrduxxtriddreirevjr jte unwrei unwt
Aniqjn,ruhwrtirevjrxuhwrpni.jriddrurxoeexjrevjryoixjhajridrevjr ohwk
Vjnjr jrsieroh,ruhwrevicsvrhier oevicerqcavrwoddoacxez,rsieruxxrtudjrih
tvinj,ruhwr ux.jwrudejn unwtrihrdiiereirZunqicev,r vjnj,rutrchdinechuej
qjh,r jr jnjrctjwr oevrsnjuervcquhoez,rutr jxxrpzrevjrqusotenuejtridrevj
ei h,r viruttoshjwrctrsiiwrlcunejnt,rutrpzrfuneoacxunrqjnavuhetruhw
i hjntridrtvoft,ruhwrvuwrqihjzrsoyjhrctrtcddoaojhereiraunnzrctrjoevjnrei
Xihwihrinrpua.reirVcxxrutr jrevicsverdoek

VuwrOrhi rvuwrevjrtjhtjreirvuyjrsihjrpua.reirVcxx,ruhwrvuyjrsihjrviqj,rO
vuwrpjjhrvuffz,ruhwrqzrduevjn,rutrohricnrpxjttjwrTuyoicn’trfunupxj,rvuw
jyjhr.oxxjwrevjrdueejwrauxdrdinrqj;rdinrvjunohsrevjrtvofrOr jheru uzroh
 utrauteru uzrohrZunqicevrNiuwt,roer utrursnjuer voxjrpjdinjrvjrvuwruhz
uttcnuhajtrevuerOr utrhierwni hjwk

Pcerqzroxxrduejrfctvjwrqjrihrhi r oevruhripteohuazrevuerhievohsraicxw
njtote;ruhwrevicsvrOrvuwrtjyjnuxreoqjtrxicwrauxxtrdniqrqzrnjutihruhwrqz
qinjraiqfitjwrbcwsqjhereirsirviqj,rzjerOrvuwrhirfi jnreirwiroekrrOr.hi 
hier vuereirauxxrevot,rhinr oxxrOrcnsjrevueroerotrurtjanjeriyjnncxohs
wjanjj,revuervcnnojtrctrihreirpjrevjrohtencqjhetridricnri hrwjtencaeoih,
jyjhrevicsvroerpjrpjdinjrct,ruhwrevuer jrnctvrcfihroer oevricnrjzjtrifjhk
Ajneuohxz,rhievohsrpcertiqjrtcavrwjanjjwrchuyiowupxjrqotjnz,r voavroer ut
oqfittopxjrdinrqjreirjtaufj,raicxwrvuyjrfctvjwrqjrdin unwrusuohterevj
auxqrnjutihohstruhwrfjntcutoihtridrqzrqiternjeonjwrevicsvet,ruhwrusuohte
e irtcavryotopxjrohtencaeoihtrutrOrvuwrqjer oevrohrqzrdonterueejqfek

Qzraiqnuwj,r virvuwrvjxfjwreirvunwjhrqjrpjdinj,ruhwr vir utrevjrqutejn’t
tih,r utrhi rxjttrdin unwrevuhrOkrrEvjrdontereoqjrvjrtfi.jreirqjrudejnr j
 jnjruerZunqicev,r voavr utrhiereoxxre irinrevnjjrwuzt,rdinr jr jnj
tjfunuejwrohrevjrei hreirtjyjnuxrlcunejnt;rOrtuz,revjrdontereoqjrvjrtu 
qj,roeruffjunjwrvotreihjr utruxejnjw;ruhw,rxii.ohsryjnzrqjxuhavixz,ruhw
tvu.ohsrvotrvjuw,rvjrut.jwrqjrvi rOrwow,ruhwrejxxohsrvotrduevjnr virO
 ut,ruhwrvi rOrvuwraiqjrevotryizusjrihxzrdinrurenoux,rohrinwjnreirsi
dcnevjnrupniuw,rvotrduevjn,recnhohsreirqjr oevruryjnzrsnuyjruhwraihajnhjw
eihjr“Zichsrquh,”rtuztrvj,r“zicricsverhjyjnreirsireirtjuruhzrqinj;rzic
icsvereireu.jrevotrdinrurfxuohruhwryotopxjrei.jhrevuerzicrunjrhiereirpjru
tjudunohsrquhk”rr“ vz,rton,”rtuowrO,r“ oxxrzicrsireirtjurhirqinj?”rr“Evue
otruhievjnrautj,”rtuowrvj;r“oerotrqzrauxxohs,ruhwrevjnjdinjrqzrwcez;rpce
utrzicrquwjrevotryizusjrihrenoux,rzicrtjjr vuerureutejrVjuyjhrvutrsoyjh
zicridr vuerzicrunjreirjmfjaerodrzicrfjntotekrrFjnvuftrevotrvutruxx
pjduxxjhrctrihrzicnruaaiche,rxo.jrBihuvrohrevjrtvofridrEuntvotvkrrFnuz,”
aiheohcjtrvj,r“ vuerunjrzic;ruhwrihr vueruaaicherwowrzicrsireirtju?”
CfihrevuerOreixwrvoqrtiqjridrqzrteinz;ruerevjrjhwridr voavrvjrpcnterice
oheirurtenuhsjr.ohwridrfuttoih:r“ vuervuwrOrwihj,”rtuztrvj,r“evuertcavruh
chvuffzr njeavrtvicxwraiqjroheirqzrtvof?rrOr icxwrhiertjerqzrdiierohrevj
tuqjrtvofr oevrevjjrusuohrdinrurevictuhwrfichwtk”rrEvotrohwjjwr ut,rutrO
tuow,ruhrjmacntoihridrvotrtfonoet,r voavr jnjrzjerusoeuejwrpzrevjrtjhtj
idrvotrxitt,ruhwr utrdunevjnrevuhrvjraicxwrvuyjrucevinoezreirsik
Vi jyjn,rvjrudejn unwtreux.jwryjnzrsnuyjxzreirqj,rjmvineohsrqjreirsirpua.
eirqzrduevjn,ruhwrhierejqferFniyowjhajreirqzrncoh,rejxxohsrqjrOrqosvertjj
uryotopxjrvuhwridrVjuyjhrusuohterqjkrr“Uhw,rzichsrquh,”rtuowrvj,r“wjfjhw
cfihroe,rodrzicrwirhiersirpua.,r vjnjyjnrzicrsi,rzicr oxxrqjjer oev
hievohsrpcerwotutejntruhwrwotuffioheqjhet,reoxxrzicnrduevjn’tr inwtrunj
dcxdoxxjwrcfihrzick”

 jrfunejwrtiihrudejn;rdinrOrquwjrvoqrxoeexjruht jn,ruhwrOrtu rvoqrhi
qinj;r voavr uzrvjr jherOr.hj rhiekrrUtrdinrqj,rvuyohsrtiqjrqihjzrohrqz
fia.je,rOrenuyjxxjwreirXihwihrpzrxuhw;ruhwrevjnj,rutr jxxrutrihrevjrniuw,
vuwrquhzrtencssxjtr oevrqztjxdr vueraicntjridrxodjrOrtvicxwreu.j,ruhw
 vjevjnrOrtvicxwrsirviqjrinreirtjuk

Utreirsiohsrviqj,rtvuqjriffitjwrevjrpjterqieoihtrevueriddjnjwreirqz
evicsvet,ruhwroeroqqjwouejxzriaacnnjwreirqjrvi rOrtvicxwrpjrxucsvjwrue
uqihsrevjrhjosvpicnt,ruhwrtvicxwrpjrutvuqjwreirtjj,rhierqzrduevjnruhw
qievjnrihxz,rpcerjyjhrjyjnzpiwzrjxtj;rdniqr vjhajrOrvuyjrtohajridejh
iptjnyjw,rvi rohaihsncictruhwronnueoihuxrevjraiqqihrejqfjnridrquh.ohwrot,
jtfjaouxxzridrzicev,reirevuernjutihr voavricsvereirscowjrevjqrohrtcav
autjt—yogkrevuerevjzrunjrhierutvuqjwreirtoh,ruhwrzjerunjrutvuqjwrei
njfjhe;rhierutvuqjwridrevjruaeoihrdinr voavrevjzricsverbctexzreirpj
jtejjqjwrdiixt,rpcerunjrutvuqjwridrevjrnjecnhohs,r voavrihxzrauhrqu.j
evjqrpjrjtejjqjwr otjrqjhk

Ohrevotrteuejridrxodj,rvi jyjn,rOrnjquohjwrtiqjreoqj,rchajneuohr vue
qjutcnjtreireu.j,ruhwr vueraicntjridrxodjreirxjuwkrrUhronnjtoteopxj
njxcaeuhajraiheohcjwreirsiohsrviqj;ruhwrutrOrteuzjwru uzrur voxj,revj
njqjqpnuhajridrevjrwotenjttrOrvuwrpjjhrohr injridd,ruhwrutrevuerupuejw,
evjrxoeexjrqieoihrOrvuwrohrqzrwjtonjtreirnjecnhr injriddr oevroe,reoxxrue
xuterOrlcoejrxuowrutowjrevjrevicsvetridroe,ruhwrxii.jwricerdinruryizusjk




AVUFEJNrOO—TXUYJNZrUHWrJTAUFJ


Evuerjyoxrohdxcjhajr voavraunnojwrqjrdonteru uzrdniqrqzrduevjn’t
victj— voavrvcnnojwrqjroheirevjr oxwruhwrohwosjtejwrhieoihridrnuotohsrqz
dinechj,ruhwrevueroqfnjttjwrevitjraihajoetrtirdinaopxzrcfihrqjrutreirqu.j
qjrwjudreiruxxrsiiwruwyoaj,ruhwreirevjrjhenjueojtruhwrjyjhrevjraiqquhwt
idrqzrduevjn—Ortuz,revjrtuqjrohdxcjhaj,r vuejyjnroer ut,rfnjtjhejwrevj
qiterchdinechuejridruxxrjhejnfnotjtreirqzryoj ;ruhwrOr jherihrpiunwru
yjttjxrpichwreirevjraiuteridrUdnoau;rin,rutricnrtuoxintrycxsunxzrauxxjw
oe,ruryizusjreirScohjuk

Oer utrqzrsnjuerqotdinechjrevuerohruxxrevjtjruwyjhecnjtrOrwowrhiertvof
qztjxdrutrurtuoxin;r vjh,revicsvrOrqosverohwjjwrvuyjr in.jwrurxoeexj
vunwjnrevuhrinwohunz,rzjeruerevjrtuqjreoqjrOrtvicxwrvuyjrxjunherevjrwcez
uhwriddoajridrurdinj-quterquh,ruhwrohreoqjrqosvervuyjrlcuxodojwrqztjxd
dinrurquejrinrxojcejhuhe,rodrhierdinrurqutejnkrrPcerutroer utrux uztrqz
duejreiraviitjrdinrevjr intj,rtirOrwowrvjnj;rdinrvuyohsrqihjzrohrqz
fia.jeruhwrsiiwraxievjtrcfihrqzrpua.,rOr icxwrux uztrsirihrpiunwrohrevj
vupoeridrursjhexjquh;ruhwrtirOrhjoevjnrvuwruhzrpctohjttrohrevjrtvof,rhin
xjunhjwreirwiruhzk

Oer utrqzrxierdonteridruxxreirduxxroheirfnjeezrsiiwraiqfuhzrohrXihwih,
 voavrwijtrhierux uztrvuffjhreirtcavrxiitjruhwrqotscowjwrzichsrdjxxi trut
Orevjhr ut;revjrwjyoxrsjhjnuxxzrhieriqoeeohsreirxuzrtiqjrthunjrdinrevjq
yjnzrjunxz;rpceroer utrhiertir oevrqjkrrOrdontersierualcuohejwr oevrevj
qutejnridrurtvofr virvuwrpjjhrihrevjraiuteridrScohju;ruhwr vi,rvuyohsrvuw
yjnzrsiiwrtcaajttrevjnj,r utrnjtixyjwreirsirusuohkrrEvotraufeuohreu.ohsru
duhazreirqzraihyjntueoih,r voavr utrhierueruxxrwotusnjjupxjruerevuereoqj,
vjunohsrqjrtuzrOrvuwrurqohwreirtjjrevjr inxw,reixwrqjrodrOr icxwrsirevj
yizusjr oevrvoqrOrtvicxwrpjruerhirjmfjhtj;rOrtvicxwrpjrvotrqjttquejruhw
votraiqfuhoih;ruhwrodrOraicxwraunnzruhzevohsr oevrqj,rOrtvicxwrvuyjruxx
evjruwyuheusjridroerevuerevjrenuwjr icxwruwqoe;ruhwrfjnvuftrOrqosverqjje
 oevrtiqjrjhaicnusjqjhek

Orjqpnuajwrevjriddjn;ruhwrjhejnohsroheirurtenoaerdnojhwtvofr oevrevot
aufeuoh,r vir utruhrvihjte,rfxuoh-wjuxohsrquh,rOr jherevjryizusjr oev
voq,ruhwraunnojwrurtquxxruwyjhecnjr oevrqj,r voav,rpzrevjrwotohejnjtejw
vihjtezridrqzrdnojhwrevjraufeuoh,rOrohanjutjwryjnzraihtowjnupxz;rdinrO
aunnojwrupicer£40rohrtcavreiztruhwrenodxjtrutrevjraufeuohrwonjaejwrqjrei
pczkrrEvjtjr£40rOrvuwrqctejnjwreisjevjnrpzrevjruttoteuhajridrtiqjridrqz
njxueoihtr viqrOrainnjtfihwjwr oev;ruhwr vi,rOrpjxojyj,rsierqzrduevjn,rin
uerxjuterqzrqievjn,reiraihenopcejrtirqcavrutrevuereirqzrdonteruwyjhecnjk

Evotr utrevjrihxzryizusjr voavrOrquzrtuzr utrtcaajttdcxrohruxxrqz
uwyjhecnjt,r voavrOri jreirevjrohejsnoezruhwrvihjtezridrqzrdnojhwrevj
aufeuoh;rchwjnr viqruxtirOrsieruraiqfjejher.hi xjwsjridrevjrquevjqueoat
uhwrevjrncxjtridrhuyosueoih,rxjunhjwrvi reir.jjfruhruaaicheridrevjrtvof’t
aicntj,reu.jruhriptjnyueoih,ruhw,rohrtvine,reirchwjnteuhwrtiqjrevohst
evuer jnjrhjjwdcxreirpjrchwjnteiiwrpzrurtuoxin;rdin,rutrvjreii.rwjxosve
eirohtencaerqj,rOreii.rwjxosvereirxjunh;ruhw,rohrur inw,revotryizusjrquwj
qjrpievrurtuoxinruhwrurqjnavuhe;rdinrOrpnicsverviqjrdoyjrfichwtrhohj
ichajtridrsixw-wcterdinrqzruwyjhecnj,r voavrzojxwjwrqjrohrXihwih,ruerqz
njecnh,ruxqiter£300;ruhwrevotrdoxxjwrqjr oevrevitjrutfonohsrevicsvet
 voavrvuyjrtohajrtiraiqfxjejwrqzrncohk

ZjerjyjhrohrevotryizusjrOrvuwrqzrqotdinechjtreii;rfuneoacxunxz,revuerO
 utraiheohcuxxzrtoa.,rpjohsrevni hroheiruryoixjherauxjhecnjrpzrevj
jmajttoyjrvjueridrevjraxoquej;ricnrfnohaofuxrenuwohsrpjohsrcfihrevj
aiute,rdniqrxueoecwjridr15rwjsnjjtrhinevrjyjhreirevjrxohjroetjxdk

Or utrhi rtjercfrdinrurScohjurenuwjn;ruhwrqzrdnojhw,reirqzrsnjue
qotdinechj,rwzohsrtiihrudejnrvotrunnoyux,rOrnjtixyjwreirsirevjrtuqj
yizusjrusuoh,ruhwrOrjqpun.jwrohrevjrtuqjryjttjxr oevrihjr vir utrvotrquej
ohrevjrdinqjnryizusj,ruhwrvuwrhi rsierevjraiqquhwridrevjrtvofkrrEvotr ut
evjrchvuffojteryizusjrevuerjyjnrquhrquwj;rdinrevicsvrOrwowrhieraunnz
lcoejr£100ridrqzrhj -suohjwr juxev,rtirevuerOrvuwr£200rxjde,r voavrOrvuw
xiwsjwr oevrqzrdnojhw’tr owi ,r vir utryjnzrbctereirqj,rzjerOrdjxxrohei
ejnnopxjrqotdinechjtkrrEvjrdonter utrevot:ricnrtvofrqu.ohsrvjnraicntj
ei unwtrevjrAuhunzrOtxuhwt,rinrnuevjnrpje jjhrevitjrotxuhwtruhwrevj
Udnoauhrtvinj,r utrtcnfnotjwrohrevjrsnjzridrevjrqinhohsrpzrurEcn.otv
niyjnridrTuxxjj,r virsuyjravutjreirctr oevruxxrevjrtuoxrtvjraicxwrqu.jk
 jrani wjwruxtirutrqcavrauhyutrutricnrzunwtr icxwrtfnjuw,rinricnrqutet
aunnz,reirsjeraxjun;rpcerdohwohsrevjrfonuejrsuohjwrcfihrct,ruhwr icxw
ajneuohxzraiqjrcfr oevrctrohrurdj rvicnt,r jrfnjfunjwreirdosve;ricnrtvof
vuyohsre jxyjrscht,ruhwrevjrniscjrjosvejjhkrrUpicerevnjjrohrevjrudejnhiih
vjrauqjrcfr oevrct,ruhwrpnohsohsrei,rpzrqoteu.j,rbcteruev unericn
lcunejn,rohtejuwridruev unericnrtejnh,rutrvjrohejhwjw,r jrpnicsverjosve
idricnrschtreirpjunrihrevuertowj,ruhwrficnjwrohrurpniuwtowjrcfihrvoq,
 voavrquwjrvoqrtvjjnriddrusuoh,rudejnrnjecnhohsricnrdonj,ruhwrficnohsroh
uxtirvotrtquxxrtvierdniqrhjunre irvchwnjwrqjhr voavrvjrvuwrihrpiunwk
Vi jyjn,r jrvuwrhierurquhreicavjw,ruxxricnrqjhr.jjfohsraxitjkrrVj
fnjfunjwreirueeua.rctrusuoh,ruhwr jreirwjdjhwricntjxyjtkrrPcerxuzohsrct
ihrpiunwrevjrhjmereoqjrcfihricnrievjnrlcunejn,rvjrjhejnjwrtomezrqjhrcfih
icnrwja.t,r viroqqjwouejxzrdjxxreiraceeohsruhwrvua.ohsrevjrtuoxtruhw
nossohskrr jrfxojwrevjqr oevrtquxxrtvie,rvuxd-fo.jt,rfi wjn-avjtet,ruhw
tcavrxo.j,ruhwraxjunjwricnrwja.ridrevjqre oajkrrVi jyjn,reiracertvine
evotrqjxuhavixzrfuneridricnrteinz,ricnrtvofrpjohsrwotupxjw,ruhwrevnjjrid
icnrqjhr.oxxjw,ruhwrjosver ichwjw,r jr jnjripxosjwreirzojxw,ruhwr jnj
aunnojwruxxrfnotihjntroheirTuxxjj,rurfinerpjxihsohsreirevjrQiintk

EvjrctusjrOrvuwrevjnjr utrhiertirwnjuwdcxrutruerdonterOruffnjvjhwjw;rhin
 utrOraunnojwrcfrevjraichenzreirevjrjqfjnin’traicne,rutrevjrnjteridricn
qjhr jnj,rpcer utr.jferpzrevjraufeuohridrevjrniyjnrutrvotrfnifjnrfnogj,
uhwrquwjrvotrtxuyj,rpjohsrzichsruhwrhoqpxj,ruhwrdoerdinrvotrpctohjttkrrUe
evotrtcnfnotohsravuhsjridrqzraonacqteuhajt,rdniqrurqjnavuhereiru
qotjnupxjrtxuyj,rOr utrfjndjaexzriyjn vjxqjw;ruhwrhi rOrxii.jwrpua.rcfih
qzrduevjn’trfnifvjeoarwotaicntjreirqj,revuerOrtvicxwrpjrqotjnupxjruhw
vuyjrhihjreirnjxojyjrqj,r voavrOrevicsver utrhi rtirjddjaecuxxzrpnicsve
eirfuttrevuerOraicxwrhierpjr intj;rdinrhi revjrvuhwridrVjuyjhrvuw
iyjneu.jhrqj,ruhwrOr utrchwihjr oevicernjwjqfeoih;rpce,ruxut!revotr ut
pcerureutejridrevjrqotjnzrOr utreirsirevnicsv,rutr oxxruffjunrohrevj
tjlcjxridrevotrteinzk

Utrqzrhj rfuenih,rinrqutejn,rvuwreu.jhrqjrviqjreirvotrvictj,rtirOr utroh
vifjtrevuervjr icxwreu.jrqjr oevrvoqr vjhrvjr jhereirtjurusuoh,rpjxojyohs
evueroer icxwrtiqjreoqjrinrievjnrpjrvotrduejreirpjreu.jhrpzrurTfuhotvrin
Finecsuxrquh-id- un;ruhwrevuerevjhrOrtvicxwrpjrtjeruerxopjnezkrrPcerevot
vifjridrqohjr utrtiihreu.jhru uz;rdinr vjhrvjr jhereirtju,rvjrxjderqjrih
tvinjreirxii.rudejnrvotrxoeexjrsunwjh,ruhwrwirevjraiqqihrwncwsjnzrid
txuyjtrupicervotrvictj;ruhwr vjhrvjrauqjrviqjrusuohrdniqrvotrancotj,rvj
inwjnjwrqjreirxojrohrevjraupohreirxii.rudejnrevjrtvofk

VjnjrOrqjwoeuejwrhievohsrpcerqzrjtaufj,ruhwr vuerqjeviwrOrqosvereu.jrei
jddjaeroe,rpcerdichwrhir uzrevuervuwrevjrxjuterfnipupoxoezrohroe;rhievohs
fnjtjhejwreirqu.jrevjrtcffitoeoihridroernueoihux;rdinrOrvuwrhipiwzrei
aiqqchoauejroereirevuer icxwrjqpun.r oevrqj—hirdjxxi -txuyj,rhi
Jhsxotvquh,rOnotvquh,rinrTaieavquhrevjnjrpcerqztjxd;rtirevuerdinre i
zjunt,revicsvrOridejhrfxjutjwrqztjxdr oevrevjroqusohueoih,rzjerOrhjyjn
vuwrevjrxjuterjhaicnusohsrfnitfjaeridrfceeohsroerohrfnuaeoajk

Udejnrupicere irzjunt,ruhriwwraonacqteuhajrfnjtjhejwroetjxd,r voavrfce
evjrixwrevicsveridrqu.ohsrtiqjrueejqferdinrqzrxopjnezrusuohrohrqzrvjuwk
Qzrfuenihrxzohsruerviqjrxihsjnrevuhrctcuxr oevicerdoeeohsricervotrtvof,
 voav,rutrOrvjunw,r utrdinr uheridrqihjz,rvjrctjwraihteuhexz,rihajrin
e oajrur jj.,rtiqjeoqjtridejhjnrodrevjr juevjnr utrduon,reireu.jrevj
tvof’trfohhuajruhwrsiriceroheirevjrniuwru-dotvohs;ruhwrutrvjrux uztreii.
qjruhwrzichsrQunjtair oevrvoqreirni revjrpiue,r jrquwjrvoqryjnzrqjnnz,
uhwrOrfniyjwryjnzrwjmejnictrohraueavohsrdotv;rohtiqcavrevuertiqjeoqjtrvj
 icxwrtjhwrqjr oevrurQiin,rihjridrvotr.ohtqjh,ruhwrevjrzicev—evjrQunjtai,
utrevjzrauxxjwrvoq—eiraueavrurwotvridrdotvrdinrvoqk

Oervuffjhjwrihjreoqj,revuersiohsru-dotvohsrohrurauxqrqinhohs,rurdisrnitj
tirevoa.revue,revicsvr jr jnjrhiervuxdrurxjuscjrdniqrevjrtvinj,r jrxite
tosveridroe;ruhwrni ohsr jr.hj rhier voevjnrinr voavr uz,r jrxupicnjwruxx
wuz,ruhwruxxrevjrhjmerhosve;ruhwr vjhrevjrqinhohsrauqjr jrdichwr jrvuw
fcxxjwriddreirtjurohtejuwridrfcxxohsrohrdinrevjrtvinj;ruhwrevuer jr jnj
uerxjutere irxjuscjtrdniqrevjrtvinjkrrVi jyjn,r jrsier jxxrohrusuoh,
evicsvr oevrursnjuerwjuxridrxupicnruhwrtiqjrwuhsjn;rdinrevjr ohwrpjsuhrei
pxi rfnjeezrdnjtvrohrevjrqinhohs;rpcer jr jnjruxxryjnzrvchsnzk

Pcericnrfuenih,r unhjwrpzrevotrwotutejn,rnjtixyjwreireu.jrqinjraunjrid
voqtjxdrdinrevjrdcecnj;ruhwrvuyohsrxzohsrpzrvoqrevjrxihspiueridricn
Jhsxotvrtvofrevuervjrvuwreu.jh,rvjrnjtixyjwrvjr icxwrhiersiru-dotvohsruhz
qinjr oeviceruraiqfuttruhwrtiqjrfniyotoih;rtirvjrinwjnjwrevjraunfjhejnrid
votrtvof,r viruxtir utruhrJhsxotvrtxuyj,reirpcoxwrurxoeexjrteuej-niiq,rin
aupoh,rohrevjrqowwxjridrevjrxihs-piue,rxo.jrevueridrurpunsj,r oevrurfxuaj
eirteuhwrpjvohwroereirtejjn,ruhwrvucxrviqjrevjrquoh-tvjje;revjrniiq
pjdinjrdinrurvuhwrinre ireirteuhwruhwr in.revjrtuoxtkrrTvjrtuoxjwr oev
 vuer jrauxxrurtvicxwjn-id-qceeihrtuox;ruhwrevjrpiiqrbopjwriyjnrevjreif
idrevjraupoh,r voavrxuzryjnzrthcsruhwrxi ,ruhwrvuwrohroerniiqrdinrvoqrei
xoj,r oevrurtxuyjrinre i,ruhwrureupxjreirjuerih,r oevrtiqjrtquxxrxia.jnt
eirfcerohrtiqjrpieexjtridrtcavrxolcinrutrvjrevicsverdoereirwnoh.;ruhwrvot
pnjuw,rnoaj,ruhwraiddjjk

 jr jherdnjlcjhexzricer oevrevotrpiueru-dotvohs;ruhwrutrOr utrqite
wjmejnictreiraueavrdotvrdinrvoq,rvjrhjyjnr jher oevicerqjkrrOervuffjhjw
evuervjrvuwruffiohejwreirsiricerohrevotrpiue,rjoevjnrdinrfxjutcnjrinrdin
dotv,r oevre irinrevnjjrQiintridrtiqjrwoteohaeoihrohrevuerfxuaj,ruhwrdin
 viqrvjrvuwrfniyowjwrjmenuinwohunoxz,ruhwrvuw,revjnjdinj,rtjherihrpiunw
evjrpiueriyjnhosverurxunsjnrteinjridrfniyotoihtrevuhrinwohunz;ruhwrvuw
inwjnjwrqjreirsjernjuwzrevnjjrdctjjtr oevrfi wjnruhwrtvie,r voavr jnjrih
piunwrvotrtvof,rdinrevuerevjzrwjtoshjwrtiqjrtfineridrdi xohsrutr jxxrut
dotvohsk

Orsieruxxrevohstrnjuwzrutrvjrvuwrwonjaejw,ruhwr uoejwrevjrhjmerqinhohs
 oevrevjrpiuer utvjwraxjuh,rvjnruhaojheruhwrfjhwuhetrice,ruhwrjyjnzevohs
eiruaaiqqiwuejrvotrscjtet;r vjhrpz-uhw-pzrqzrfuenihrauqjrihrpiunwruxihj,
uhwreixwrqjrvotrscjtetrvuwrfceriddrsiohsrdniqrtiqjrpctohjttrevuerdjxx
ice,ruhwrinwjnjwrqj,r oevrevjrquhruhwrpiz,rutrctcux,reirsiricer oevrevj
piueruhwraueavrevjqrtiqjrdotv,rdinrevuervotrdnojhwtr jnjreirtcfruervot
victj,ruhwraiqquhwjwrevuerutrtiihrutrOrsiertiqjrdotvrOrtvicxwrpnohsroe
viqjreirvotrvictj;ruxxr voavrOrfnjfunjwreirwik

Evotrqiqjherqzrdinqjnrhieoihtridrwjxoyjnuhajrwunejwroheirqzrevicsvet,rdin
hi rOrdichwrOr utrxo.jxzreirvuyjrurxoeexjrtvofruerqzraiqquhw;ruhwrqz
qutejnrpjohsrsihj,rOrfnjfunjwreirdcnhotvrqztjxd,rhierdinrdotvohs
pctohjtt,rpcerdinruryizusj;revicsvrOr.hj rhie,rhjoevjnrwowrOrtirqcavrut
aihtowjn,r voevjnrOrtvicxwrtejjn—uhz vjnjreirsjericeridrevuerfxuajr utrqz
wjtonjk

Qzrdonteraihenoyuhajr utreirqu.jrurfnjejhajreirtfju.reirevotrQiin,reirsje
tiqjevohsrdinricnrtcptotejhajrihrpiunw;rdinrOreixwrvoqr jrqcterhie
fnjtcqjreirjueridricnrfuenih’trpnjuwkrrVjrtuowrevuer utrencj;rtirvj
pnicsverurxunsjrput.jeridrnct.rinrpotacoe,ruhwrevnjjrbuntridrdnjtvr uejn,
oheirevjrpiuekrrOr.hj r vjnjrqzrfuenih’trautjridrpieexjtrteiiw,r voavroe
 utrjyowjhe,rpzrevjrqu.j,r jnjreu.jhriceridrtiqjrJhsxotvrfnogj,ruhwrO
aihyjzjwrevjqroheirevjrpiuer voxjrevjrQiinr utrihrtvinj,rutrodrevjzrvuw
pjjhrevjnjrpjdinjrdinricnrqutejnkrrOraihyjzjwruxtirursnjuerxcqfrid
pjjt umroheirevjrpiue,r voavr josvjwrupicervuxdrurvchwnjw- josve,r oevru
funajxridre ohjrinrevnjuw,rurvueavje,rurtu ,ruhwrurvuqqjn,ruxxridr voav
 jnjridrsnjuerctjreirctrudejn unwt,rjtfjaouxxzrevjr um,reirqu.jrauhwxjtk
Uhievjnrenoa.rOrenojwrcfihrvoq,r voavrvjrohhiajhexzrauqjroheiruxti:rvot
huqjr utrOtqujx,r voavrevjzrauxxrQcxjz,rinrQijxz;rtirOrauxxjwrei
voq—“Qijxz,”rtuowrO,r“icnrfuenih’trschtrunjrihrpiunwrevjrpiue;rauhrzic
hiersjerurxoeexjrfi wjnruhwrtvie?rrOerquzrpjr jrquzr.oxxrtiqjruxauqojtr(u
di xrxo.jricnracnxj t)rdinricntjxyjt,rdinrOr.hi rvjr.jjftrevjrschhjn’t
teinjtrohrevjrtvofk”rr“Zjt,”rtuztrvj,r“O’xxrpnohsrtiqj;”ruhwruaainwohsxz
vjrpnicsverursnjuerxjuevjnrficav,r voavrvjxwrurfichwruhwrurvuxdrid
fi wjn,rinrnuevjnrqinj;ruhwruhievjnr oevrtvie,revuervuwrdoyjrinrtom
fichwt,r oevrtiqjrpcxxjet,ruhwrfceruxxroheirevjrpiuekrrUerevjrtuqjreoqjrO
vuwrdichwrtiqjrfi wjnridrqzrqutejn’trohrevjrsnjueraupoh,r oevr voavrO
doxxjwrihjridrevjrxunsjrpieexjtrohrevjrautj,r voavr utruxqiterjqfez,
ficnohsr vuer utrohroeroheiruhievjn;ruhwrevctrdcnhotvjwr oevrjyjnzevohs
hjjwdcx,r jrtuoxjwriceridrevjrfinereirdotvkrrEvjrautexj,r voavrotruerevj
jhenuhajridrevjrfine,r.hj r vir jr jnj,ruhwreii.rhirhieoajridrct;ruhwr j
 jnjrhierupiyjrurqoxjriceridrevjrfinerpjdinjr jrvucxjwrohricnrtuoxruhw
tjerctrwi hreirdotvkrrEvjr ohwrpxj rdniqrevjrHkHkJk,r voavr utraihenunz
eirqzrwjtonj,rdinrvuwroerpxi hrticevjnxzrOrvuwrpjjhrtcnjreirvuyjrquwjrevj
aiuteridrTfuoh,ruhwruerxjuternjuavjwreirevjrpuzridrAuwog;rpcerqz
njtixceoihtr jnj,rpxi r voavr uzroer icxw,rOr icxwrpjrsihjrdniqrevue
vinnowrfxuajr vjnjrOr ut,ruhwrxjuyjrevjrnjtereirduejk

Udejnr jrvuwrdotvjwrtiqjreoqjruhwraucsverhievohs—dinr vjhrOrvuwrdotvrih
qzrvii.rOr icxwrhierfcxxrevjqrcf,revuervjrqosverhiertjjrevjq—Ortuowrei
evjrQiin,r“Evotr oxxrhierwi;ricnrqutejnr oxxrhierpjrevctrtjnyjw;r jrqcte
teuhwrdunevjnriddk”rrVj,revoh.ohsrhirvunq,rusnjjw,ruhwrpjohsrohrevjrvjuw
idrevjrpiue,rtjerevjrtuoxt;ruhw,rutrOrvuwrevjrvjxq,rOrnuhrevjrpiuerice
hjunrurxjuscjrdunevjn,ruhwrevjhrpnicsvervjnrei,rutrodrOr icxwrdotv;r vjh,
soyohsrevjrpizrevjrvjxq,rOrtejffjwrdin unwreir vjnjrevjrQiinr ut,ruhw
qu.ohsrutrodrOrteiifjwrdinrtiqjevohsrpjvohwrvoq,rOreii.rvoqrpzrtcnfnotj
 oevrqzrunqrchwjnrvotr uote,ruhwreittjwrvoqraxjunriyjnpiunwroheirevjrtjuk
Vjrnitjroqqjwouejxz,rdinrvjrt uqrxo.jrurain.,ruhwrauxxjwreirqj,rpjssjwrei
pjreu.jhroh,reixwrqjrvjr icxwrsiruxxriyjnrevjr inxwr oevrqjkrrVjrt uqrti
tenihsrudejnrevjrpiuerevuervjr icxwrvuyjrnjuavjwrqjryjnzrlcoa.xz,revjnj
pjohsrpcerxoeexjr ohw;rcfihr voavrOrtejffjwroheirevjraupoh,ruhwrdjeavohs
ihjridrevjrdi xohs-fojajt,rOrfnjtjhejwroeruervoq,ruhwreixwrvoqrOrvuwrwihj
voqrhirvcne,ruhwrodrvjr icxwrpjrlcojerOr icxwrwirvoqrhihjkrr“Pce,”rtuow
O,r“zicrt oqr jxxrjhicsvreirnjuavreirevjrtvinj,ruhwrevjrtjurotrauxq;rqu.j
evjrpjteridrzicnr uzreirtvinj,ruhwrOr oxxrwirzicrhirvunq;rpcerodrzicraiqj
hjunrevjrpiuerO’xxrtviierzicrevnicsvrevjrvjuw,rdinrOruqrnjtixyjwreirvuyj
qzrxopjnez;”rtirvjrecnhjwrvoqtjxdrupice,ruhwrt uqrdinrevjrtvinj,ruhwrO
qu.jrhirwicperpcervjrnjuavjwroer oevrjutj,rdinrvjr utruhrjmajxxjhe
t oqqjnk

Oraicxwrvuyjrpjjhraihejhereirvuyjreu.jhrevotrQiinr oevrqj,ruhwrvuyj
wni hjwrevjrpiz,rpcerevjnjr utrhiryjhecnohsreirenctervoqkrr vjhrvjr ut
sihj,rOrecnhjwreirevjrpiz,r viqrevjzrauxxjwrMcnz,ruhwrtuowreirvoq,r“Mcnz,
odrzicr oxxrpjrduoevdcxreirqj,rO’xxrqu.jrzicrursnjuerquh;rpcerodrzicr oxx
hierteni.jrzicnrduajreirpjrencjreirqj”—evuerot,rt junrpzrQuviqjeruhwrvot
duevjn’trpjunw—“Orqcterevni rzicroheirevjrtjureiik”rrEvjrpizrtqoxjwrohrqz
duaj,ruhwrtfi.jrtirohhiajhexzrevuerOraicxwrhierwotenctervoq,ruhwrt injrei
pjrduoevdcxreirqj,ruhwrsiruxxriyjnrevjr inxwr oevrqjk

 voxjrOr utrohryoj ridrevjrQiinrevuer utrt oqqohs,rOrteiiwricerwonjaexz
eirtjur oevrevjrpiue,rnuevjnrtenjeavohsreir ohw unw,revuerevjzrqosve
evoh.rqjrsihjrei unwtrevjrTenuoet’rqicevr(utrohwjjwruhzrihjrevuervuwrpjjh
ohrevjonr oetrqctervuyjrpjjhrtcffitjwreirwi):rdinr vir icxwrvuyjrtcffitjw
 jr jnjrtuoxjwrihreirevjrticev unw,reirevjrencxzrPunpunouhraiute,r vjnj
 vixjrhueoihtridrhjsnijtr jnjrtcnjreirtcnnichwrctr oevrevjonrauhijtruhw
wjtenizrct;r vjnjr jraicxwrhiersirihrtvinjrpcer jrtvicxwrpjrwjyicnjwrpz
tuyusjrpjutet,rinrqinjrqjnaoxjttrtuyusjtridrvcquhr.ohwk

Pcerutrtiihrutroersnj rwct.rohrevjrjyjhohs,rOravuhsjwrqzraicntj,ruhw
tejjnjwrwonjaexzrticevruhwrpzrjute,rpjhwohsrqzraicntjrurxoeexjrei unwt
evjrjute,revuerOrqosver.jjfrohr oevrevjrtvinj;ruhwrvuyohsrurduon,rdnjtv
suxjridr ohw,ruhwrurtqiiev,rlcojertju,rOrquwjrtcavrtuoxrevuerOrpjxojyjrpz
evjrhjmerwuz,ruerevnjjri’axia.rohrevjrudejnhiih,r vjhrOrdonterquwjrevj
xuhw,rOraicxwrhierpjrxjttrevuhrihjrvchwnjwruhwrdodezrqoxjtrticevrid
Tuxxjj;rlcoejrpjzihwrevjrJqfjninridrQiniaai’trwiqohoiht,rinrohwjjwridruhz
ievjnr.ohsrevjnjupicet,rdinr jrtu rhirfjifxjk

Zjertcavr utrevjrdnosverOrvuwreu.jhridrevjrQiint,ruhwrevjrwnjuwdcx
uffnjvjhtoihtrOrvuwridrduxxohsroheirevjonrvuhwt,revuerOr icxwrhierteif,
inrsirihrtvinj,rinraiqjreiruhruhavin;revjr ohwraiheohcohsrduonreoxxrOrvuw
tuoxjwrohrevuerquhhjnrdoyjrwuzt;ruhwrevjhrevjr ohwrtvodeohsreirevj
ticev unw,rOraihaxcwjwruxtirevuerodruhzridricnryjttjxtr jnjrohravutjrid
qj,revjzruxtir icxwrhi rsoyjriyjn;rtirOryjhecnjwreirqu.jreirevjraiute,
uhwrauqjreiruhruhavinrohrevjrqicevridrurxoeexjrnoyjn,rOr.hj rhier vue,
hinr vjnj,rhjoevjnr vuerxueoecwj,r vueraichenz,r vuerhueoih,rinr vue
noyjnkrrOrhjoevjnrtu ,rhinrwjtonjwreirtjjruhzrfjifxj;revjrfnohaofuxrevohs
Or uhejwr utrdnjtvr uejnkrr jrauqjroheirevotranjj.rohrevjrjyjhohs,
njtixyohsreirt oqrihrtvinjrutrtiihrutroer utrwun.,ruhwrwotaiyjnrevj
aichenz;rpcerutrtiihrutroer utrlcoejrwun.,r jrvjunwrtcavrwnjuwdcxrhiotjt
idrevjrpun.ohs,rniunohs,ruhwrvi xohsridr oxwranjuecnjt,ridr jr.hj rhie
 vuer.ohwt,revuerevjrfiinrpizr utrnjuwzreirwojr oevrdjun,ruhwrpjssjwrid
qjrhiereirsirihrtvinjreoxxrwuzkrr“ jxx,rMcnz,”rtuowrO,r“evjhrOr ih’e;rpce
oerquzrpjrevuer jrquzrtjjrqjhrpzrwuz,r vir oxxrpjrutrpuwreirctrutrevitj
xoihtk”rr“Evjhr jrsoyjrevjqrevjrtviiersch,”rtuztrMcnz,rxucsvohs,r“qu.j
evjqrnchr jzk”rrTcavrJhsxotvrMcnzrtfi.jrpzraihyjntohsruqihsrctrtxuyjtk
Vi jyjn,rOr utrsxuwreirtjjrevjrpizrtiravjjndcx,ruhwrOrsuyjrvoqrurwnuq
(iceridricnrfuenih’trautjridrpieexjt)reiravjjnrvoqrcfkrrUdejnruxx,rMcnz’t
uwyoajr utrsiiw,ruhwrOreii.roe;r jrwniffjwricnrxoeexjruhavin,ruhwrxuz
teoxxruxxrhosve;rOrtuzrteoxx,rdinr jrtxjferhihj;rdinrohre irinrevnjj
vicntr jrtu ryutersnjueranjuecnjtr( jr.hj rhier vuereirauxxrevjq)ridrquhz
tinet,raiqjrwi hreirevjrtju-tvinjruhwrnchroheirevjr uejn,r uxxi ohsruhw
 utvohsrevjqtjxyjtrdinrevjrfxjutcnjridraiixohsrevjqtjxyjt;ruhwrevjzrquwj
tcavrvowjictrvi xohstruhwrzjxxohst,revuerOrhjyjnrohwjjwrvjunwrevjrxo.jk

Mcnzr utrwnjuwdcxxzrdnosvejw,ruhwrohwjjwrtir utrOreii;rpcer jr jnjrpiev
qinjrdnosvejwr vjhr jrvjunwrihjridrevjtjrqosvezranjuecnjtraiqjrt oqqohs
ei unwtricnrpiue;r jraicxwrhiertjjrvoq,rpcer jrqosvervjunrvoqrpzrvot
pxi ohsreirpjrurqihtenictrvcsjruhwrdcnoictrpjutekrrMcnzrtuowroer utru
xoih,ruhwroerqosverpjrtirdinrucsverOr.hi ;rpcerfiinrMcnzranojwreirqjrei
 josvrevjruhavinruhwrni ru uz;r“Hi,”rtuztrO,r“Mcnz;r jrauhrtxofricn
aupxj,r oevrevjrpcizreiroe,ruhwrsiriddreirtju;revjzrauhhierdixxi rct
dunk”rrOrvuwrhirtiihjnrtuowrti,rpcerOrfjnajoyjwrevjranjuecnjr( vuejyjnroe
 ut)r oevohre iriunt’rxjhsev,r voavrtiqjevohsrtcnfnotjwrqj;rvi jyjn,rO
oqqjwouejxzrtejffjwreirevjraupohrwiin,ruhwreu.ohsrcfrqzrsch,rdonjwrue
voq;rcfihr voavrvjroqqjwouejxzrecnhjwrupiceruhwrt uqrei unwtrevjrtvinj
usuohk

Pceroerotroqfittopxjreirwjtanopjrevjrvinnowrhiotjt,ruhwrvowjictranojtruhw
vi xohstrevuer jnjrnuotjw,rutr jxxrcfihrevjrjwsjridrevjrtvinjrutrvosvjn
 oevohrevjraichenz,rcfihrevjrhiotjrinrnjfineridrevjrsch,rurevohsrOrvuyj
tiqjrnjutihreirpjxojyjrevitjranjuecnjtrvuwrhjyjnrvjunwrpjdinj:revot
aihyohajwrqjrevuerevjnjr utrhirsiohsrihrtvinjrdinrctrohrevjrhosverihrevue
aiute,ruhwrvi reiryjhecnjrihrtvinjrohrevjrwuzr utruhievjnrlcjteoihreii;
dinreirvuyjrduxxjhroheirevjrvuhwtridruhzridrevjrtuyusjtrvuwrpjjhrutrpuw
utreirvuyjrduxxjhroheirevjrvuhwtridrevjrxoihtruhwreosjnt;ruerxjuter j
 jnjrjlcuxxzruffnjvjhtoyjridrevjrwuhsjnridroek

Pjrevuerutroer icxw,r jr jnjripxosjwreirsirihrtvinjrtiqj vjnjrinrievjn
dinr uejn,rdinr jrvuwrhierurfoherxjderohrevjrpiue;r vjhruhwr vjnjreirsje
eiroer utrevjrfiohekrrMcnzrtuow,rodrOr icxwrxjervoqrsirihrtvinjr oevrihj
idrevjrbunt,rvjr icxwrdohwrodrevjnjr utruhzr uejn,ruhwrpnohsrtiqjreirqjk
Orut.jwrvoqr vzrvjr icxwrsi?r vzrOrtvicxwrhiersi,ruhwrvjrteuzrohrevj
piue?rrEvjrpizruht jnjwr oevrtirqcavruddjaeoihrutrquwjrqjrxiyjrvoqrjyjn
udejnkrrTuztrvj,r“Odr oxwrquhtraiqj,revjzrjuerqj,rzicrsir jzk”rr“ jxx,
Mcnz,”rtuowrO,r“ jr oxxrpievrsiruhwrodrevjr oxwrquhtraiqj,r jr oxxr.oxx
evjq,revjzrtvuxxrjuerhjoevjnridrctk”rrTirOrsuyjrMcnzrurfojajridrnct.
pnjuwreirjue,ruhwrurwnuqriceridricnrfuenih’trautjridrpieexjtr voavrO
qjheoihjwrpjdinj;ruhwr jrvucxjwrevjrpiuerohrutrhjunrevjrtvinjrutr j
evicsver utrfnifjn,ruhwrtir uwjwrihrtvinj,raunnzohsrhievohsrpcericnrunqt
uhwre irbuntrdinr uejnk

Orwowrhieraunjreirsiriceridrtosveridrevjrpiue,rdjunohsrevjraiqohsrid
auhijtr oevrtuyusjtrwi hrevjrnoyjn;rpcerevjrpizrtjjohsrurxi rfxuajrupice
urqoxjrcfrevjraichenz,rnuqpxjwreiroe,ruhwrpz-uhw-pzrOrtu rvoqraiqj
nchhohsrei unwtrqjkrrOrevicsvervjr utrfcntcjwrpzrtiqjrtuyusj,rinrdnosvejw
 oevrtiqjr oxwrpjute,ruhwrOrnuhrdin unwrei unwtrvoqreirvjxfrvoq;rpcer vjh
OrauqjrhjunjnreirvoqrOrtu rtiqjevohsrvuhsohsriyjnrvotrtvicxwjnt,r voav
 utruranjuecnjrevuervjrvuwrtvie,rxo.jrurvunj,rpcerwoddjnjherohraixicn,
uhwrxihsjnrxjst;rvi jyjn,r jr jnjryjnzrsxuwridroe,ruhwroer utryjnzrsiiw
qjue;rpcerevjrsnjuerbizrevuerfiinrMcnzrauqjr oev,r utreirejxxrqjrvjrvuw
dichwrsiiwr uejnruhwrtjjhrhir oxwrquhtk

Pcer jrdichwrudejn unwtrevuer jrhjjwrhiereu.jrtcavrfuohtrdinr uejn,rdinru
xoeexjrvosvjnrcfrevjranjj.r vjnjr jr jnjr jrdichwrevjr uejnrdnjtvr vjh
evjreowjr utrice,r voavrdxi jwrpcerurxoeexjr uzrcf;rtir jrdoxxjwricn
bunt,ruhwrdjutejwrihrevjrvunjrvjrvuwr.oxxjw,ruhwrfnjfunjwreirsirihricn
 uz,rvuyohsrtjjhrhirdiietejftridruhzrvcquhranjuecnjrohrevuerfuneridrevj
aichenzk

UtrOrvuwrpjjhrihjryizusjreirevotraiuterpjdinj,rOr.hj ryjnzr jxxrevuerevj
otxuhwtridrevjrAuhunojt,ruhwrevjrAufjrwjrYjnwjrOtxuhwtruxti,rxuzrhierdun
iddrdniqrevjraiutekrrPcerutrOrvuwrhirohtencqjhetreireu.jruhriptjnyueoih
eir.hi r vuerxueoecwjr jr jnjroh,ruhwrhierjmuaexzr.hi ohs,rinruerxjute
njqjqpjnohs,r vuerxueoecwjrevjzr jnjroh,rOr.hj rhier vjnjreirxii.rdin
evjq,rinr vjhreirteuhwriddreirtjurei unwtrevjq;rievjn otjrOrqosverhi 
jutoxzrvuyjrdichwrtiqjridrevjtjrotxuhwtkrrPcerqzrvifjr ut,revuerodrO
teiiwruxihsrevotraiutereoxxrOrauqjreirevuerfuner vjnjrevjrJhsxotvrenuwjw,
Ortvicxwrdohwrtiqjridrevjonryjttjxtrcfihrevjonrctcuxrwjtoshridrenuwj,
evuer icxwrnjxojyjruhwreu.jrctrohk

Pzrevjrpjteridrqzrauxacxueoih,revuerfxuajr vjnjrOrhi r utrqcterpjrevue
aichenzr voav,rxzohsrpje jjhrevjrJqfjninridrQiniaai’trwiqohoihtruhwrevj
hjsnijt,rxojtr utejruhwrchohvupoejw,rjmajferpzr oxwrpjutet;revjrhjsnijt
vuyohsrupuhwihjwroeruhwrsihjrdunevjnrticevrdinrdjunridrevjrQiint,ruhwrevj
Qiintrhierevoh.ohsroer inevrohvupoeohsrpzrnjutihridroetrpunnjhhjtt;ruhw
ohwjjw,rpievrdintu.ohsroerpjauctjridrevjrfniwosoictrhcqpjnridreosjnt,
xoiht,rxjifunwt,ruhwrievjnrdcnoictranjuecnjtr voavrvunpicnrevjnj;rtirevue
evjrQiintrctjroerdinrevjonrvcheohsrihxz,r vjnjrevjzrsirxo.jruhrunqz,re i
inrevnjjrevictuhwrqjhruerureoqj;ruhwrohwjjwrdinrhjunrurvchwnjwrqoxjt
eisjevjnrcfihrevotraiuter jrtu rhievohsrpcerur utej,rchohvupoejwraichenz
pzrwuz,ruhwrvjunwrhievohsrpcervi xohstruhwrniunohsridr oxwrpjutetrpz
hosvek

Ihajrinre oajrohrevjrwuzeoqjrOrevicsverOrtu revjrFoairidrEjhjnoddj,rpjohs
evjrvosvreifridrevjrQicheuohrEjhjnoddjrohrevjrAuhunojt,ruhwrvuwrursnjue
qohwreiryjhecnjrice,rohrvifjtridrnjuavohsrevoevjn;rpcervuyohsrenojw
e oaj,rOr utrdinajwrohrusuohrpzraihenunzr ohwt,revjrtjuruxtirsiohsreii
vosvrdinrqzrxoeexjryjttjx;rti,rOrnjtixyjwreirfcntcjrqzrdonterwjtosh,ruhw
.jjfruxihsrevjrtvinjk

TjyjnuxreoqjtrOr utripxosjwreirxuhwrdinrdnjtvr uejn,rudejnr jrvuwrxjde
evotrfxuaj;ruhwrihajrohrfuneoacxun,rpjohsrjunxzrohrqinhohs,r jrauqjreiruh
uhavinrchwjnrurxoeexjrfioheridrxuhw,r voavr utrfnjeezrvosv;ruhwrevjreowj
pjsohhohsreirdxi ,r jrxuzrteoxxreirsirdunevjnrohkrrMcnz,r vitjrjzjtr jnj
qinjrupicervoqrevuhroertjjqtrqohjr jnj,rauxxtrtidexzreirqj,ruhwrejxxtrqj
evuer jrvuwrpjtersirdunevjnriddrevjrtvinj;r“Din,”rtuztrvj,r“xii.,rzihwjn
xojtrurwnjuwdcxrqihtejnrihrevjrtowjridrevuervoxxia.,rduterutxjjfk”rrO
xii.jwr vjnjrvjrfiohejw,ruhwrtu rurwnjuwdcxrqihtejnrohwjjw,rdinroer utru
ejnnopxj,rsnjuerxoihrevuerxuzrihrevjrtowjridrevjrtvinj,rchwjnrevjrtvuwj
idrurfojajridrevjrvoxxrevuervchsrutroer jnjrurxoeexjriyjnrvoqkrr“Mcnz,”
tuztrO,r“zicrtvuxxrihrtvinjruhwr.oxxrvoqk”rrMcnz,rxii.jwrdnosvejw,ruhw
tuow,r“Qjr.oxx!rvjrjuerqjruerihjrqicev!”—ihjrqicevdcxrvjrqjuhekrrVi jyjn,
Ortuowrhirqinjreirevjrpiz,rpcerpuwjrvoqrxojrteoxx,ruhwrOreii.ricnrpossjte
sch,r voavr utruxqiterqct.je-pinj,ruhwrxiuwjwroer oevrursiiwravunsjrid
fi wjn,ruhwr oevre irtxcst,ruhwrxuowroerwi h;revjhrOrxiuwjwruhievjnrsch
 oevre irpcxxjet;ruhwrevjrevonwr(dinr jrvuwrevnjjrfojajt)rOrxiuwjwr oev
doyjrtquxxjnrpcxxjetkrrOreii.revjrpjteruoqrOraicxwr oevrevjrdonterfojaj
eirvuyjrtviervoqrohrevjrvjuw,rpcervjrxuzrtir oevrvotrxjsrnuotjwrurxoeexj
upiyjrvotrhitj,revuerevjrtxcstrvoervotrxjsrupicerevjr.hjjruhwrpni.jrevj
pihjkrrVjrteunejwrcf,rsni xohsruerdonte,rpcerdohwohsrvotrxjsrpni.jh,rdjxx
wi hrusuoh;ruhwrevjhrsiercfihrevnjjrxjst,ruhwrsuyjrevjrqitervowjictrniun
evuerjyjnrOrvjunwkrrOr utrurxoeexjrtcnfnotjwrevuerOrvuwrhiervoervoqrih
evjrvjuw;rvi jyjn,rOreii.rcfrevjrtjaihwrfojajroqqjwouejxz,ruhwrevicsvrvj
pjsuhreirqiyjridd,rdonjwrusuoh,ruhwrtviervoqrohrevjrvjuw,ruhwrvuwrevj
fxjutcnjreirtjjrvoqrwnifruhwrqu.jrpcerxoeexjrhiotj,rpcerxojrtencssxohs
dinrxodjkrrEvjhrMcnzreii.rvjune,ruhwr icxwrvuyjrqjrxjervoqrsirihrtvinjk
“ jxx,rsi,”rtuowrO:rtirevjrpizrbcqfjwroheirevjr uejnruhwreu.ohsrurxoeexj
schrohrihjrvuhw,rt uqreirtvinjr oevrevjrievjnrvuhw,ruhwraiqohsraxitjrei
evjranjuecnj,rfcerevjrqcggxjridrevjrfojajreirvotrjun,ruhwrtviervoqrohrevj
vjuwrusuoh,r voavrwjtfueavjwrvoqrlcoejk

Evotr utrsuqjrohwjjwreirct,rpcerevotr utrhirdiiw;ruhwrOr utryjnzrtinnzrei
xitjrevnjjravunsjtridrfi wjnruhwrtviercfihruranjuecnjrevuer utrsiiwrdin
hievohsreirctkrrVi jyjn,rMcnzrtuowrvjr icxwrvuyjrtiqjridrvoq;rtirvjraiqjt
ihrpiunw,ruhwrut.jwrqjreirsoyjrvoqrevjrvueavjekrr“Dinr vue,rMcnz?”rtuow
Okrr“Qjraceriddrvotrvjuw,”rtuowrvjkrrVi jyjn,rMcnzraicxwrhieraceriddrvot
vjuw,rpcervjraceriddrurdiie,ruhwrpnicsveroer oevrvoq,ruhwroer utru
qihtenictrsnjuerihjk

Orpjevicsverqztjxd,rvi jyjn,revue,rfjnvuftrevjrt.ohridrvoqrqosve,rihjr uz
inrievjn,rpjridrtiqjryuxcjreirct;ruhwrOrnjtixyjwreireu.jriddrvotrt.ohrod
OraicxwkrrTirMcnzruhwrOr jhereir in.r oevrvoq;rpcerMcnzr utrqcavrevj
pjeejnr in.quhrueroe,rdinrOr.hj ryjnzroxxrvi reirwiroekrrOhwjjw,roereii.
ctrpievrcfrevjr vixjrwuz,rpceruerxuter jrsieriddrevjrvowjridrvoq,ruhw
tfnjuwohsroerihrevjreifridricnraupoh,revjrtchrjddjaecuxxzrwnojwroerohre i
wuzt’reoqj,ruhwroerudejn unwtrtjnyjwrqjreirxojrcfihk




AVUFEJNrOOO— NJA.JWrIHrUrWJTJNErOTXUHW


Udejnrevotrteif,r jrquwjrihreirevjrticev unwraiheohcuxxzrdinrejhrin
e jxyjrwuzt,rxoyohsryjnzrtfunohsxzrihricnrfniyotoiht,r voavrpjsuhrei
upuejryjnzrqcav,ruhwrsiohsrhiridejhjnreirevjrtvinjrevuhr jr jnjripxosjw
eirdinrdnjtvr uejnkrrQzrwjtoshrohrevotr utreirqu.jrevjrnoyjnrSuqpourin
Tjhjsux,revuerotreirtuzruhz vjnjrupicerevjrAufjrwjrYjnwj,r vjnjrOr utroh
vifjtreirqjjer oevrtiqjrJcnifjuhrtvof;ruhwrodrOrwowrhie,rOr.hj rhier vue
aicntjrOrvuwreireu.j,rpcereirtjj.rdinrevjrotxuhwt,rinrfjnotvrevjnjruqihs
evjrhjsnijtkrrOr.hj revueruxxrevjrtvoftrdniqrJcnifj,r voavrtuoxjwrjoevjn
eirevjraiuteridrScohjurinreirPnugox,rinreirevjrJuterOhwojt,rquwjrevot
aufj,rinrevitjrotxuhwt;ruhw,rohrur inw,rOrfcerevjr vixjridrqzrdinechj
cfihrevotrtohsxjrfiohe,rjoevjnrevuerOrqcterqjjer oevrtiqjrtvofrinrqcte
fjnotvk

 vjhrOrvuwrfcntcjwrevotrnjtixceoihrupicerejhrwuztrxihsjn,rutrOrvuyjrtuow,
Orpjsuhreirtjjrevuerevjrxuhwr utrohvupoejw;ruhwrohre irinrevnjjrfxuajt,
utr jrtuoxjwrpz,r jrtu rfjifxjrteuhwrcfihrevjrtvinjreirxii.ruerct;r j
aicxwruxtirfjnajoyjrevjzr jnjrlcoejrpxua.ruhwrhu.jwkrrOr utrihajrohaxohjw
eirvuyjrsihjrihrtvinjreirevjq;rpcerMcnzr utrqzrpjeejnraichtjxxin,ruhw
tuowreirqj,r“Hirsi,rhirsik”rrVi jyjn,rOrvucxjwrohrhjunjnrevjrtvinjrevuerO
qosvereux.reirevjq,ruhwrOrdichwrevjzrnuhruxihsrevjrtvinjrpzrqjrursiiw
 uzkrrOriptjnyjwrevjzrvuwrhir jufihtrohrevjonrvuhw,rjmajferihj,r virvuwru
xihsrtxjhwjnrteoa.,r voavrMcnzrtuowr utrurxuhaj,ruhwrevuerevjzraicxw
evni revjqrursnjuer uzr oevrsiiwruoq;rtirOr.jferuerurwoteuhaj,rpcereux.jw
 oevrevjqrpzrtoshtrutr jxxrutrOraicxw;ruhwrfuneoacxunxzrquwjrtoshtrdin
tiqjevohsreirjue:revjzrpja.ihjwreirqjreirteifrqzrpiue,ruhwrevjzr icxw
djeavrqjrtiqjrqjuekrrCfihrevotrOrxi jnjwrevjreifridrqzrtuoxruhwrxuzrpz,
uhwre iridrevjqrnuhrcfroheirevjraichenz,ruhwrohrxjttrevuhrvuxd-uh-vicn
auqjrpua.,ruhwrpnicsver oevrevjqre irfojajtridrwnojwrdxjtvruhwrtiqjrainh,
tcavrutrotrevjrfniwcajridrevjonraichenz;rpcer jrhjoevjnr.hj r vuerevjrihj
inrevjrievjnr ut;rvi jyjn,r jr jnjr oxxohsreiruaajferoe,rpcervi reiraiqj
ueroer utricnrhjmerwotfcej,rdinrOr icxwrhieryjhecnjrihrtvinjreirevjq,ruhw
evjzr jnjrutrqcavrudnuowridrct;rpcerevjzreii.rurtudjr uzrdinrctruxx,rdin
evjzrpnicsveroereirevjrtvinjruhwrxuowroerwi h,ruhwr jheruhwrteiiwrursnjue
 uzriddreoxxr jrdjeavjwroerihrpiunw,ruhwrevjhrauqjraxitjreirctrusuohk

 jrquwjrtoshtridrevuh.treirevjq,rdinr jrvuwrhievohsreirqu.jrevjqruqjhwt;
pceruhriffinechoezriddjnjwrevueryjnzrohteuhereiripxosjrevjqr ihwjndcxxz;
dinr voxjr jr jnjrxzohsrpzrevjrtvinjrauqjre irqosvezranjuecnjt,rihj
fcntcohsrevjrievjnr(utr jreii.roe)r oevrsnjuerdcnzrdniqrevjrqicheuoht
ei unwtrevjrtju;r vjevjnroer utrevjrquxjrfcntcohsrevjrdjquxj,rinr vjevjn
evjzr jnjrohrtfinerinrohrnusj,r jraicxwrhierejxx,ruhzrqinjrevuhr jraicxw
ejxxr vjevjnroer utrctcuxrinrtenuhsj,rpcerOrpjxojyjroer utrevjrxueejn;
pjauctj,rohrevjrdonterfxuaj,revitjrnuyjhictranjuecnjtrtjxwiqruffjunrpce
ohrevjrhosve;ruhw,rohrevjrtjaihwrfxuaj,r jrdichwrevjrfjifxjrejnnopxz
dnosvejw,rjtfjaouxxzrevjr iqjhkrrEvjrquhrevuervuwrevjrxuhajrinrwunerwow
hierdxzrdniqrevjq,rpcerevjrnjterwow;rvi jyjn,rutrevjre iranjuecnjtrnuh
wonjaexzroheirevjr uejn,revjzrwowrhieriddjnreirduxxrcfihruhzridrevj
hjsnijt,rpcerfxchsjwrevjqtjxyjtroheirevjrtju,ruhwrt uqrupice,rutrodrevjz
vuwraiqjrdinrevjonrwoyjntoih;ruerxuterihjridrevjqrpjsuhreiraiqjrhjunjn
icnrpiuerevuhruerdonterOrjmfjaejw;rpcerOrxuzrnjuwzrdinrvoq,rdinrOrvuw
xiuwjwrqzrschr oevruxxrfittopxjrjmfjwoeoih,ruhwrpuwjrMcnzrxiuwrpievrevj
ievjntkrrUtrtiihrutrvjrauqjrduonxzr oevohrqzrnjuav,rOrdonjw,ruhwrtviervoq
wonjaexzrohrevjrvjuw;roqqjwouejxzrvjrtuh.rwi hroheirevjr uejn,rpcernitj
ohteuhexz,ruhwrfxchsjwrcfruhwrwi h,rutrodrvjr jnjrtencssxohsrdinrxodj,
uhwrtirohwjjwrvjr ut;rvjroqqjwouejxzrquwjreirevjrtvinj;rpcerpje jjhrevj
 ichw,r voavr utrvotrqineuxrvcne,ruhwrevjrtenuhsxohsridrevjr uejn,rvj
wojwrbcterpjdinjrvjrnjuavjwrevjrtvinjk

Oerotroqfittopxjreirjmfnjttrevjruteihotvqjheridrevjtjrfiinranjuecnjtrue
evjrhiotjruhwrdonjridrqzrsch:rtiqjridrevjqr jnjrjyjhrnjuwzreirwojrdin
djun,ruhwrdjxxrwi hrutrwjuwr oevrevjryjnzrejnnin;rpcer vjhrevjzrtu revj
anjuecnjrwjuw,ruhwrtch.rohrevjr uejn,ruhwrevuerOrquwjrtoshtreirevjqrei
aiqjreirevjrtvinj,revjzreii.rvjuneruhwrauqj,ruhwrpjsuhreirtjunavrdinrevj
anjuecnjkrrOrdichwrvoqrpzrvotrpxiiwrteuohohsrevjr uejn;ruhwrpzrevjrvjxf
idrurnifj,r voavrOrtxchsrnichwrvoq,ruhwrsuyjrevjrhjsnijtreirvucx,revjz
wnussjwrvoqrihrtvinj,ruhwrdichwrevueroer utrurqiteracnoictrxjifunw,
tfieejw,ruhwrdohjreiruhruwqonupxjrwjsnjj;ruhwrevjrhjsnijtrvjxwrcfrevjon
vuhwtr oevruwqonueoih,reirevoh.r vueroer utrOrvuwr.oxxjwrvoqr oevk

Evjrievjnranjuecnj,rdnosvejwr oevrevjrdxutvridrdonjruhwrevjrhiotjridrevj
sch,rt uqrihrtvinj,ruhwrnuhrcfrwonjaexzreirevjrqicheuohtrdniqr vjhajrevjz
auqj;rhinraicxwrO,ruerevuerwoteuhaj,r.hi r vueroer utkrrOrdichwrlcoa.xz
evjrhjsnijtr otvjwreirjuerevjrdxjtvridrevotranjuecnj,rtirOr utr oxxohsrei
vuyjrevjqreu.jroerutrurduyicnrdniqrqj;r voav,r vjhrOrquwjrtoshtreirevjq
evuerevjzrqosvereu.jrvoq,revjzr jnjryjnzrevuh.dcxrdinkrrOqqjwouejxzrevjz
djxxreir in.r oevrvoq;ruhwrevicsvrevjzrvuwrhir.hodj,rzje,r oevru
tvunfjhjwrfojajridr iiw,revjzreii.riddrvotrt.ohrutrnjuwoxz,ruhwrqcavrqinj
njuwoxz,revuhr jraicxwrvuyjrwihjr oevrur.hodjkrrEvjzriddjnjwrqjrtiqjrid
evjrdxjtv,r voavrOrwjaxohjw,rfioheohsricerevuerOr icxwrsoyjroerevjq;rpce
quwjrtoshtrdinrevjrt.oh,r voavrevjzrsuyjrqjryjnzrdnjjxz,ruhwrpnicsverqjru
snjuerwjuxrqinjridrevjonrfniyotoiht,r voav,revicsvrOrwowrhierchwjnteuhw,
zjerOruaajfejwkrrOrevjhrquwjrtoshtreirevjqrdinrtiqjr uejn,ruhwrvjxwrice
ihjridrqzrbuntreirevjq,recnhohsroerpieeiqrcf unw,reirtvi revueroer ut
jqfez,ruhwrevuerOr uhejwreirvuyjroerdoxxjwkrrEvjzrauxxjwroqqjwouejxzrei
tiqjridrevjonrdnojhwt,ruhwrevjnjrauqjre ir iqjh,ruhwrpnicsverursnjue
yjttjxrquwjridrjunev,ruhwrpcnhe,rutrOrtcffitjw,rohrevjrtch,revotrevjzrtje
wi hreirqj,rutrpjdinj,ruhwrOrtjherMcnzrihrtvinjr oevrqzrbunt,ruhwrdoxxjw
evjqruxxrevnjjkrrEvjr iqjhr jnjrutrhu.jwrutrevjrqjhk

Or utrhi rdcnhotvjwr oevrniietruhwrainh,rtcavrutroer ut,ruhwr uejn;ruhw
xjuyohsrqzrdnojhwxzrhjsnijt,rOrquwjrdin unwrdinrupicerjxjyjhrwuztrqinj,
 oeviceriddjnohsreirsirhjunrevjrtvinj,reoxxrOrtu revjrxuhwrnchriceru
snjuerxjhsevroheirevjrtju,ruerupicerevjrwoteuhajridrdicnrinrdoyjrxjuscjt
pjdinjrqj;ruhwrevjrtjurpjohsryjnzrauxq,rOr.jferurxunsjriddohsreirqu.j
evotrfiohekrrUerxjhsev,rwicpxohsrevjrfiohe,ruerupicere irxjuscjtrdniqrevj
xuhw,rOrtu rfxuohxzrxuhwrihrevjrievjnrtowj,reirtju unw;revjhrOraihaxcwjw,
utroer utrqiterajneuohrohwjjw,revuerevotr utrevjrAufjrwjrYjnwj,ruhwrevitj
evjrotxuhwtrauxxjw,rdniqrevjhaj,rAufjrwjrYjnwjrOtxuhwtkrrVi jyjn,revjz
 jnjruerursnjuerwoteuhaj,ruhwrOraicxwrhier jxxrejxxr vuerOrvuwrpjterei
wi;rdinrodrOrtvicxwrpjreu.jhr oevrurdnjtvridr ohw,rOrqosverhjoevjnrnjuav
ihjrinrievjnk

Ohrevotrwoxjqqu,rutrOr utryjnzrfjhtoyj,rOrtejffjwroheirevjraupohruhwrtue
wi h,rMcnzrvuyohsrevjrvjxq;r vjh,rihrurtcwwjh,revjrpizranojwrice,
“Qutejn,rqutejn,rurtvofr oevrurtuox!”ruhwrevjrdiixotvrpizr utrdnosvejw
iceridrvotr oet,revoh.ohsroerqcterhjjwtrpjrtiqjridrvotrqutejn’trtvoft
tjhereirfcntcjrct,rpcerOr.hj r jr jnjrdunrjhicsvriceridrevjonrnjuavkrrO
bcqfjwriceridrevjraupoh,ruhwroqqjwouejxzrtu ,rhierihxzrevjrtvof,rpcerevue
oer utrurFinecscjtjrtvof;ruhw,rutrOrevicsve,r utrpichwreirevjraiuterid
Scohju,rdinrhjsnijtkrrPce,r vjhrOriptjnyjwrevjraicntjrtvjrtejjnjw,rOr ut
tiihraihyohajwrevjzr jnjrpichwrtiqjrievjnr uz,ruhwrwowrhierwjtoshreiraiqj
uhzrhjunjnreirevjrtvinj;rcfihr voavrOrtenjeavjwricereirtjurutrqcavrutrO
aicxw,rnjtixyohsreirtfju.r oevrevjqrodrfittopxjk

 oevruxxrevjrtuoxrOraicxwrqu.j,rOrdichwrOrtvicxwrhierpjrupxjreiraiqjroh
evjonr uz,rpcerevuerevjzr icxwrpjrsihjrpzrpjdinjrOraicxwrqu.jruhzrtoshux
eirevjq:rpcerudejnrOrvuwrani wjwreirevjrceqite,ruhwrpjsuhreirwjtfuon,
evjz,roertjjqt,rtu rpzrevjrvjxfridrevjonrsxuttjtrevueroer utrtiqj
Jcnifjuhrpiue,r voavrevjzrtcffitjwrqcterpjxihsreirtiqjrtvofrevuer ut
xite;rtirevjzrtvinejhjwrtuoxreirxjerqjraiqjrcfkrrOr utrjhaicnusjwr oev
evot,ruhwrutrOrvuwrqzrfuenih’truhaojherihrpiunw,rOrquwjrur uderidroerei
evjq,rdinrurtoshuxridrwotenjtt,ruhwrdonjwrursch,rpievr voavrevjzrtu ;rdin
evjzreixwrqjrevjzrtu revjrtqi.j,revicsvrevjzrwowrhiervjunrevjrschkrrCfih
evjtjrtoshuxtrevjzryjnzr.ohwxzrpnicsverei,ruhwrxuzrpzrdinrqj;ruhwroh
upicerevnjjrvicnt;reoqjrOrauqjrcfr oevrevjqk

Evjzrut.jwrqjr vuerOr ut,rohrFinecscjtj,ruhwrohrTfuhotv,ruhwrohrDnjhav,
pcerOrchwjnteiiwrhihjridrevjq;rpceruerxuterurTaieavrtuoxin,r vir utrih
piunw,rauxxjwreirqj:ruhwrOruht jnjwrvoq,ruhwreixwrvoqrOr utruh
Jhsxotvquh,revuerOrvuwrquwjrqzrjtaufjriceridrtxuyjnzrdniqrevjrQiint,rue
Tuxxjj;revjzrevjhrpuwjrqjraiqjrihrpiunw,ruhwryjnzr.ohwxzreii.rqjroh,ruhw
uxxrqzrsiiwtk

Oer utruhrohjmfnjttopxjrbizreirqj,r voavruhzrihjr oxxrpjxojyj,revuerOr ut
evctrwjxoyjnjw,rutrOrjtejjqjwroe,rdniqrtcavrurqotjnupxjruhwruxqite
vifjxjttraihwoeoihrutrOr utroh;ruhwrOroqqjwouejxzriddjnjwruxxrOrvuwrei
evjraufeuohridrevjrtvof,rutrurnjecnhrdinrqzrwjxoyjnuhaj;rpcervj
sjhjnictxzreixwrqjrvjr icxwreu.jrhievohsrdniqrqj,rpcerevueruxxrOrvuw
tvicxwrpjrwjxoyjnjwrtudjreirqjr vjhrOrauqjreirevjrPnugoxtkrr“Din,”rtuzt
vj,r“OrvuyjrtuyjwrzicnrxodjrihrhirievjnrejnqtrevuhrOr icxwrpjrsxuwreirpj
tuyjwrqztjxd;ruhwroerquz,rihjreoqjrinrievjn,rpjrqzrxiereirpjreu.jhrcfroh
evjrtuqjraihwoeoihkrrPjtowjt,”rtuowrvj,r“ vjhrOraunnzrzicreirevjrPnugoxt,
tirsnjuerur uzrdniqrzicnri hraichenz,rodrOrtvicxwreu.jrdniqrzicr vuerzic
vuyj,rzicr oxxrpjrteunyjwrevjnj,ruhwrevjhrOrihxzreu.jru uzrevuerxodjrO
vuyjrsoyjhkrrHi,rhi,”rtuztrvj:r“TjoshoinrOhsxjtj”r(QnkrJhsxotvquh),r“O
 oxxraunnzrzicrevoevjnrohravunoez,ruhwrevitjrevohstr oxxrvjxfreirpczrzicn
tcptotejhajrevjnj,ruhwrzicnrfuttusjrviqjrusuohk”

Utrvjr utravunoeupxjrohrevotrfnifitux,rtirvjr utrbcterohrevjrfjndinquhaj
eirureoeexj;rdinrvjrinwjnjwrevjrtjuqjhrevuerhihjrtvicxwreicavruhzevohs
evuerOrvuw:revjhrvjreii.rjyjnzevohsroheirvotri hrfittjttoih,ruhwrsuyjrqj
pua.ruhrjmuaerohyjheinzridrevjq,revuerOrqosvervuyjrevjq,rjyjhreirqzrevnjj
junevjhrbuntk

Utreirqzrpiue,roer utruryjnzrsiiwrihj;ruhwrevuervjrtu ,ruhwreixwrqjrvj
 icxwrpczroeridrqjrdinrvotrtvof’trctj;ruhwrut.jwrqjr vuerOr icxwrvuyjrdin
oe?rrOreixwrvoqrvjrvuwrpjjhrtirsjhjnictreirqjrohrjyjnzevohsrevuerOraicxw
hieriddjnreirqu.jruhzrfnoajridrevjrpiue,rpcerxjderoerjheonjxzreirvoq:
cfihr voavrvjreixwrqjrvjr icxwrsoyjrqjrurhiejridrvuhwreirfuzrqjrjosvez
fojajtridrjosverdinroeruerPnugox;ruhwr vjhroerauqjrevjnj,rodruhzrihj
iddjnjwreirsoyjrqinj,rvjr icxwrqu.jroercfkrrVjriddjnjwrqjruxtirtomez
fojajtridrjosverqinjrdinrqzrpizrMcnz,r voavrOr utrxievreireu.j;rhierevue
Or utrch oxxohsreirxjerevjraufeuohrvuyjrvoq,rpcerOr utryjnzrxievreirtjxx
evjrfiinrpiz’trxopjnez,r virvuwruttotejwrqjrtirduoevdcxxzrohrfniacnohsrqz
i hkrrVi jyjn,r vjhrOrxjervoqr.hi rqzrnjutih,rvjri hjwroereirpjrbcte,ruhw
iddjnjwrqjrevotrqjwocq,revuervjr icxwrsoyjrevjrpizruhripxosueoihreirtje
voqrdnjjrohrejhrzjunt,rodrvjrecnhjwrAvnoteouh:rcfihrevot,ruhwrMcnzrtuzohs
vjr utr oxxohsreirsireirvoq,rOrxjerevjraufeuohrvuyjrvoqk

 jrvuwruryjnzrsiiwryizusjreirevjrPnugoxt,ruhwrOrunnoyjwrohrevjrPuzrwj
EiwitrxitrTuheit,rinrUxxrTuohet’rPuz,rohrupicere jhez-e irwuztrudejnk
Uhwrhi rOr utrihajrqinjrwjxoyjnjwrdniqrevjrqiterqotjnupxjridruxx
aihwoeoihtridrxodj;ruhwr vuereirwirhjmer oevrqztjxdrOr utreiraihtowjnk

EvjrsjhjnictrenjueqjherevjraufeuohrsuyjrqjrOrauhrhjyjnrjhicsvrnjqjqpjn:
vjr icxwreu.jrhievohsridrqjrdinrqzrfuttusj,rsuyjrqjre jhezrwcauetrdinrevj
xjifunw’trt.oh,ruhwrdinezrdinrevjrxoih’trt.oh,r voavrOrvuwrohrqzrpiue,
uhwrauctjwrjyjnzevohsrOrvuwrohrevjrtvofreirpjrfchaecuxxzrwjxoyjnjwreirqj;
uhwr vuerOr utr oxxohsreirtjxxrvjrpicsveridrqj,rtcavrutrevjrautjrid
pieexjt,re iridrqzrscht,ruhwrurfojajridrevjrxcqfridrpjjt um—dinrOrvuw
quwjrauhwxjtridrevjrnjte:rohrur inw,rOrquwjrupicere irvchwnjwruhwre jhez
fojajtridrjosveridruxxrqzraunsi;ruhwr oevrevotrteia.rOr jherihrtvinjroh
evjrPnugoxtk

OrvuwrhierpjjhrxihsrvjnjrpjdinjrOr utrnjaiqqjhwjwreirevjrvictjridrursiiw
vihjterquhrxo.jrvoqtjxd,r virvuwruhr_ohsjhoi_,rutrevjzrauxxroer(evuerot,
urfxuheueoihruhwrurtcsun-victj)krrOrxoyjwr oevrvoqrtiqjreoqj,ruhw
ualcuohejwrqztjxdrpzrevuerqjuhtr oevrevjrquhhjnridrfxuheohsruhwrqu.ohsrid
tcsun;ruhwrtjjohsrvi r jxxrevjrfxuhejntrxoyjw,ruhwrvi revjzrsiernoav
tcwwjhxz,rOrnjtixyjw,rodrOraicxwrsjerurxoajhajreirtjeexjrevjnj,rOr icxw
ecnhrfxuhejnruqihsrevjq:rnjtixyohsrohrevjrqjuheoqjreirdohwricertiqjr uz
eirsjerqzrqihjz,r voavrOrvuwrxjderohrXihwih,rnjqoeejwreirqjkrrEirevot
fcnfitj,rsjeeohsrur.ohwridrxjeejnridrhuecnuxotueoih,rOrfcnavutjwrutrqcav
xuhwrevuer utrchacnjwrutrqzrqihjzr icxwrnjuav,ruhwrdinqjwrurfxuhrdinrqz
fxuheueoihruhwrtjeexjqjhe;rtcavrurihjrutrqosverpjrtcoeupxjreirevjrteia.
 voavrOrfnifitjwreirqztjxdreirnjajoyjrdniqrJhsxuhwk

Orvuwrurhjosvpicn,rurFinecscjtj,ridrXotpih,rpcerpinhridrJhsxotvrfunjhet,
 vitjrhuqjr utr jxxt,ruhwrohrqcavrtcavraonacqteuhajtrutrOr utkrrOrauxx
voqrqzrhjosvpicn,rpjauctjrvotrfxuheueoihrxuzrhjmereirqohj,ruhwr jr jherih
yjnzrtiaoupxzreisjevjnkrrQzrteia.r utrpcerxi ,rutr jxxrutrvot;ruhwr j
nuevjnrfxuhejwrdinrdiiwrevuhruhzevohsrjxtj,rdinrupicere irzjuntk
Vi jyjn,r jrpjsuhreirohanjutj,ruhwricnrxuhwrpjsuhreiraiqjroheirinwjn;rti
evuerevjrevonwrzjunr jrfxuhejwrtiqjreipuaai,ruhwrquwjrjuavridrctrurxunsj
fojajridrsnichwrnjuwzrdinrfxuheohsrauhjtrohrevjrzjunreiraiqjkrrPcer j
pievr uhejwrvjxf;ruhwrhi rOrdichw,rqinjrevuhrpjdinj,rOrvuwrwihjr nihsroh
funeohsr oevrqzrpizrMcnzk

Pce,ruxut!rdinrqjreirwir nihsrevuerhjyjnrwowrnosve,r utrhirsnjuer ihwjnk
Orvuoxrhirnjqjwzrpcereirsirih:rOrvuwrsieroheiruhrjqfxizqjherlcoejrnjqiej
eirqzrsjhoct,ruhwrwonjaexzraihenunzreirevjrxodjrOrwjxosvejwroh,ruhwrdin
 voavrOrdintii.rqzrduevjn’trvictj,ruhwrpni.jrevnicsvruxxrvotrsiiwruwyoajk
Huz,rOr utraiqohsroheirevjryjnzrqowwxjrteueoih,rinrcffjnrwjsnjjridrxi 
xodj,r voavrqzrduevjnruwyotjwrqjreirpjdinj,ruhwr voav,rodrOrnjtixyjwrei
sirihr oev,rOrqosverutr jxxrvuyjrteuzjwruerviqj,ruhwrhjyjnrvuyjrdueoscjw
qztjxdrohrevjr inxwrutrOrvuwrwihj;ruhwrOrctjwridejhreirtuzreirqztjxd,rO
aicxwrvuyjrwihjrevotrutr jxxrohrJhsxuhw,ruqihsrqzrdnojhwt,rutrvuyjrsihj
doyjrevictuhwrqoxjtriddreirwiroeruqihsrtenuhsjntruhwrtuyusjt,rohru
 oxwjnhjtt,ruhwruertcavrurwoteuhajrutrhjyjnreirvjunrdniqruhzrfuneridrevj
 inxwrevuervuwrevjrxjuter.hi xjwsjridrqjk

OhrevotrquhhjnrOrctjwreirxii.rcfihrqzraihwoeoihr oevrevjrceqiternjsnjek
Orvuwrhipiwzreiraihyjntjr oev,rpcerhi ruhwrevjhrevotrhjosvpicn;rhir in.
eirpjrwihj,rpcerpzrevjrxupicnridrqzrvuhwt;ruhwrOrctjwreirtuz,rOrxoyjw
bcterxo.jrurquhrauteru uzrcfihrtiqjrwjtixuejrotxuhw,revuervuwrhipiwz
evjnjrpcervoqtjxdkrrPcervi rbctervutroerpjjh—uhwrvi rtvicxwruxxrqjh
njdxjae,revuer vjhrevjzraiqfunjrevjonrfnjtjheraihwoeoihtr oevrievjntrevue
unjr intj,rVjuyjhrquzripxosjrevjqreirqu.jrevjrjmavuhsj,ruhwrpjraihyohajw
idrevjonrdinqjnrdjxoaoezrpzrevjonrjmfjnojhaj—Ortuz,rvi rbctervutroerpjjh,
evuerevjrencxzrtixoeunzrxodjrOrnjdxjaejwrih,rohruhrotxuhwridrqjnj
wjtixueoih,rtvicxwrpjrqzrxie,r virvuwrtiridejhrchbctexzraiqfunjwroer oev
evjrxodjr voavrOrevjhrxjw,rohr voav,rvuwrOraiheohcjw,rOrvuwrohruxx
fnipupoxoezrpjjhrjmajjwohsrfnitfjnictruhwrnoavk

Or utrohrtiqjrwjsnjjrtjeexjwrohrqzrqjutcnjtrdinraunnzohsrihrevj
fxuheueoihrpjdinjrqzr.ohwrdnojhw,revjraufeuohridrevjrtvofrevuereii.rqjrcf
uertju,r jherpua.—dinrevjrtvofrnjquohjwrevjnj,rohrfniyowohsrvotrxuwohs
uhwrfnjfunohsrdinrvotryizusj,rhjunxzrevnjjrqihevt— vjhrejxxohsrvoqr vue
xoeexjrteia.rOrvuwrxjderpjvohwrqjrohrXihwih,rvjrsuyjrqjrevotrdnojhwxzruhw
tohajnjruwyoaj:—“TjoshoinrOhsxjtj,”rtuztrvjr(dinrtirvjrux uztrauxxjwrqj),
“odrzicr oxxrsoyjrqjrxjeejnt,ruhwrurfniacnueoihrohrdinqreirqj,r oev
inwjntreirevjrfjntihr virvutrzicnrqihjzrohrXihwihreirtjhwrzicnrjddjaetrei
Xotpih,reirtcavrfjntihtrutrOrtvuxxrwonjae,ruhwrohrtcavrsiiwtrutrunj
fnifjnrdinrevotraichenz,rOr oxxrpnohsrzicrevjrfniwcajridrevjq,rSiw
 oxxohs,ruerqzrnjecnh;rpce,rtohajrvcquhrudduontrunjruxxrtcpbjaerei
avuhsjtruhwrwotutejnt,rOr icxwrvuyjrzicrsoyjrinwjntrpcerdinrihjrvchwnjw
fichwtrtejnxohs,r voav,rzicrtuz,rotrvuxdrzicnrteia.,ruhwrxjerevjrvugunw
pjrnchrdinrevjrdonte;rtirevue,rodroeraiqjrtudj,rzicrquzrinwjnrevjrnjte
evjrtuqjr uz,ruhw,rodroerqotaunnz,rzicrquzrvuyjrevjrievjnrvuxdreirvuyj
njaicntjreirdinrzicnrtcffxzk”

Evotr utrtir vixjtiqjruwyoaj,ruhwrxii.jwrtirdnojhwxz,revuerOraicxwrhie
pcerpjraihyohajwroer utrevjrpjteraicntjrOraicxwreu.j;rtirOruaainwohsxz
fnjfunjwrxjeejntreirevjrsjhexj iquhr oevr viqrOrvuwrxjderqzrqihjz,ruhwru
fniacnueoihreirevjrFinecscjtjraufeuoh,rutrvjrwjtonjwk

Or niejrevjrJhsxotvraufeuoh’tr owi rurdcxxruaaicheridruxxrqz
uwyjhecnjt—qzrtxuyjnz,rjtaufj,ruhwrvi rOrvuwrqjer oevrevjrFinecscjtj
aufeuohruertju,revjrvcquhoezridrvotrpjvuyoicn,ruhwr vueraihwoeoihrOr ut
hi roh,r oevruxxrievjnrhjajttunzrwonjaeoihtrdinrqzrtcffxz;ruhwr vjhrevot
vihjteraufeuohrauqjreirXotpih,rvjrdichwrqjuht,rpzrtiqjridrevjrJhsxotv
qjnavuhetrevjnj,reirtjhwriyjn,rhierevjrinwjnrihxz,rpcerurdcxxruaaicherid
qzrteinzreirurqjnavuherohrXihwih,r virnjfnjtjhejwroerjddjaecuxxzreirvjn;
 vjnjcfihrtvjrhierihxzrwjxoyjnjwrevjrqihjz,rpcericeridrvjnri hrfia.je
tjherevjrFinecsuxraufeuohruryjnzrvuhwtiqjrfnjtjherdinrvotrvcquhoezruhw
avunoezreirqjk

EvjrqjnavuherohrXihwih,ryjteohsrevotrvchwnjwrfichwtrohrJhsxotvrsiiwt,
tcavrutrevjraufeuohrvuwr noeejhrdin,rtjherevjqrwonjaexzreirvoqruerXotpih,
uhwrvjrpnicsverevjqruxxrtudjreirqjreirevjrPnugoxt;ruqihsr voav,r oevice
qzrwonjaeoihr(dinrOr utreiirzichsrohrqzrpctohjttreirevoh.ridrevjq),rvj
vuwreu.jhraunjreirvuyjruxxrtinetridreiixt,ronih in.,ruhwrcejhtoxt
hjajttunzrdinrqzrfxuheueoih,ruhwr voavr jnjridrsnjuerctjreirqjk

 vjhrevotraunsirunnoyjwrOrevicsverqzrdinechjrquwj,rdinrOr utrtcnfnotjw
 oevrevjrbizridroe;ruhwrqzrteiiwrtej unw,revjraufeuoh,rvuwrxuowricerevj
doyjrfichwt,r voavrqzrdnojhwrvuwrtjhervoqrdinrurfnjtjherdinrvoqtjxd,rei
fcnavutjruhwrpnohsrqjriyjnrurtjnyuhe,rchwjnrpihwrdinrtomrzjunt’rtjnyoaj,
uhwr icxwrhieruaajferidruhzraihtowjnueoih,rjmajferurxoeexjreipuaai,r voav
Or icxwrvuyjrvoqruaajfe,rpjohsridrqzri hrfniwcajk

Hjoevjnr utrevotruxx;rdinrqzrsiiwtrpjohsruxxrJhsxotvrquhcduaecnj,rtcavrut
axievt,rtecddt,rpuogj,ruhwrevohstrfuneoacxunxzryuxcupxjruhwrwjtonupxjroh
evjraichenz,rOrdichwrqjuhtreirtjxxrevjqreiruryjnzrsnjueruwyuheusj;rti
evuerOrqosvertuzrOrvuwrqinjrevuhrdicnreoqjtrevjryuxcjridrqzrdonteraunsi,
uhwr utrhi rohdohoejxzrpjzihwrqzrfiinrhjosvpicn—Orqjuhrohrevjruwyuhajqjhe
idrqzrfxuheueoih;rdinrevjrdonterevohsrOrwow,rOrpicsverqjrurhjsnirtxuyj,
uhwruhrJcnifjuhrtjnyuheruxti—Orqjuhruhievjnrpjtowjtrevuer voavrevj
aufeuohrpnicsverqjrdniqrXotpihk

Pcerutrupctjwrfnitfjnoezrotridejheoqjtrquwjrevjryjnzrqjuhtridricn
snjuejteruwyjntoez,rtiroer utr oevrqjkrrOr jherihrevjrhjmerzjunr oev
snjuertcaajttrohrqzrfxuheueoih:rOrnuotjwrdodezrsnjuernixxtridreipuaairih
qzri hrsnichw,rqinjrevuhrOrvuwrwotfitjwridrdinrhjajttunojtruqihsrqz
hjosvpicnt;ruhwrevjtjrdodezrnixxt,rpjohsrjuavridrupiyjrurvchwnjw josve,
 jnjr jxxracnjw,ruhwrxuowrpzrusuohterevjrnjecnhridrevjrdxjjerdniqrXotpih:
uhwrhi rohanjutohsrohrpctohjttruhwr juxev,rqzrvjuwrpjsuhreirpjrdcxxrid
fnibjaetruhwrchwjneu.ohstrpjzihwrqzrnjuav;rtcavrutrunj,rohwjjw,ridejhrevj
ncohridrevjrpjtervjuwtrohrpctohjttkrrVuwrOraiheohcjwrohrevjrteueoihrOr ut
hi roh,rOrvuwrniiqrdinruxxrevjrvuffzrevohstreirvuyjrzjerpjduxxjhrqjrdin
 voavrqzrduevjnrtirjunhjtexzrnjaiqqjhwjwrurlcoje,rnjeonjwrxodj,ruhwrid
 voavrvjrvuwrtirtjhtopxzrwjtanopjwrevjrqowwxjrteueoihridrxodjreirpjrdcxx
id;rpcerievjnrevohstrueejhwjwrqj,ruhwrOr utrteoxxreirpjrevjr oxdcxrusjhe
idruxxrqzri hrqotjnojt;ruhwrfuneoacxunxz,reirohanjutjrqzrducxe,ruhw
wicpxjrevjrnjdxjaeoihtrcfihrqztjxd,r voavrohrqzrdcecnjrtinni trOrtvicxw
vuyjrxjotcnjreirqu.j,ruxxrevjtjrqotaunnousjtr jnjrfniacnjwrpzrqzruffunjhe
ipteohuejruwvjnohsreirqzrdiixotvrohaxohueoihridr uhwjnohsrupniuw,ruhw
fcntcohsrevuerohaxohueoih,rohraihenuwoaeoihreirevjraxjunjteryoj trid
wiohsrqztjxdrsiiwrohrurduonruhwrfxuohrfcntcoeridrevitjrfnitfjaet,ruhw
evitjrqjutcnjtridrxodj,r voavrhuecnjruhwrFniyowjhajraihacnnjwreirfnjtjhe
qjr oev,ruhwreirqu.jrqzrwcezk

UtrOrvuwrihajrwihjrevctrohrqzrpnju.ohsru uzrdniqrqzrfunjhet,rtirOraicxw
hierpjraihejherhi ,rpcerOrqctersiruhwrxjuyjrevjrvuffzryoj rOrvuwridrpjohs
urnoavruhwrevnoyohsrquhrohrqzrhj rfxuheueoih,rihxzreirfcntcjrurnutvruhw
oqqiwjnuejrwjtonjridrnotohsrdutejnrevuhrevjrhuecnjridrevjrevohsruwqoeejw;
uhwrevctrOrauterqztjxdrwi hrusuohroheirevjrwjjfjterscxdridrvcquhrqotjnz
evuerjyjnrquhrdjxxrohei,rinrfjnvuftraicxwrpjraihtotejher oevrxodjruhwru
teuejridrvjuxevrohrevjr inxwk

Eiraiqj,revjh,rpzrevjrbcterwjsnjjtreirevjrfuneoacxuntridrevotrfuneridrqz
teinzkrrZicrquzrtcffitj,revuervuyohsrhi rxoyjwruxqiterdicnrzjuntrohrevj
Pnugoxt,ruhwrpjsohhohsreirevnoyjruhwrfnitfjnryjnzr jxxrcfihrqz
fxuheueoih,rOrvuwrhierihxzrxjunhjwrevjrxuhscusj,rpcervuwraihenuaejw
ualcuoheuhajruhwrdnojhwtvofruqihsrqzrdjxxi -fxuhejnt,rutr jxxrutruqihs
evjrqjnavuhetruerTekrTuxyuwin,r voavr utricnrfine;ruhwrevue,rohrqz
wotaicntjtruqihsrevjq,rOrvuwrdnjlcjhexzrsoyjhrevjqruhruaaicheridrqzre i
yizusjtreirevjraiuteridrScohju:revjrquhhjnridrenuwohsr oevrevjrhjsnijt
evjnj,ruhwrvi rjutzroer utreirfcnavutjrcfihrevjraiuterdinrenodxjt—tcavrut
pjuwt,reizt,r.hoyjt,rtaottint,rvueavjet,rpoetridrsxutt,ruhwrevjrxo.j—hie
ihxzrsixw-wcte,rScohjursnuoht,rjxjfvuhet’rejjev,r&ak,rpcerhjsnijt,rdin
evjrtjnyoajridrevjrPnugoxt,rohrsnjuerhcqpjntk

Evjzrxotejhjwrux uztryjnzrueejheoyjxzreirqzrwotaicntjtrihrevjtjrvjuwt,
pcerjtfjaouxxzreirevuerfuner voavrnjxuejwreirevjrpczohsridrhjsnijt,r voav
 utrurenuwjruerevuereoqj,rhierihxzrhierdunrjhejnjwrohei,rpce,rutrdunrut
oer ut,rvuwrpjjhraunnojwrihrpzruttojheit,rinrfjnqottoihridrevjr.ohstrid
TfuohruhwrFinecsux,ruhwrjhsnittjwrohrevjrfcpxoarteia.:rtirevuerdj 
hjsnijtr jnjrpicsve,ruhwrevjtjrjmajttoyjxzrwjunk

Oervuffjhjw,rpjohsrohraiqfuhzr oevrtiqjrqjnavuhetruhwrfxuhejntridrqz
ualcuoheuhaj,ruhwreux.ohsridrevitjrevohstryjnzrjunhjtexz,revnjjridrevjq
auqjreirqjrhjmerqinhohs,ruhwreixwrqjrevjzrvuwrpjjhrqctohsryjnzrqcavrcfih
 vuerOrvuwrwotaicntjwr oevrevjqridrevjrxuterhosve,ruhwrevjzrauqjreirqu.j
urtjanjerfnifituxreirqj;ruhw,rudejnrjhbiohohsrqjreirtjanjaz,revjzreixwrqj
evuerevjzrvuwrurqohwreirdoericerurtvofreirsireirScohju;revuerevjzrvuwruxx
fxuheueoihtrutr jxxrutrO,ruhwr jnjrtenuoejhjwrdinrhievohsrtirqcavrut
tjnyuhet;revuerutroer utrurenuwjrevueraicxwrhierpjraunnojwrih,rpjauctj
evjzraicxwrhierfcpxoaxzrtjxxrevjrhjsnijtr vjhrevjzrauqjrviqj,rtirevjz
wjtonjwreirqu.jrpcerihjryizusj,reirpnohsrevjrhjsnijtrihrtvinjrfnoyuejxz,
uhwrwoyowjrevjqruqihsrevjonri hrfxuheueoiht;ruhw,rohrur inw,revjrlcjteoih
 utr vjevjnrOr icxwrsirevjonrtcfjnaunsirohrevjrtvof,reirquhusjrevj
enuwohsrfunercfihrevjraiuteridrScohju;ruhwrevjzriddjnjwrqjrevuerOrtvicxw
vuyjrqzrjlcuxrtvunjridrevjrhjsnijt,r oevicerfniyowohsruhzrfuneridrevj
teia.k

Evotr utrurduonrfnifitux,roerqcterpjraihdjttjw,rvuwroerpjjhrquwjreiruhz
ihjrevuervuwrhiervuwrurtjeexjqjheruhwrurfxuheueoihridrvotri hreirxii.
udejn,r voavr utrohrurduonr uzridraiqohsreirpjryjnzraihtowjnupxj,ruhw
 oevrursiiwrteia.rcfihroe;rpcerdinrqj,revuer utrevctrjhejnjwruhw
jteupxotvjw,ruhwrvuwrhievohsreirwirpcereirsirihrutrOrvuwrpjsch,rdinrevnjj
inrdicnrzjuntrqinj,ruhwreirvuyjrtjherdinrevjrievjnrvchwnjwrfichwtrdniq
Jhsxuhw;ruhwr virohrevuereoqj,ruhwr oevrevuerxoeexjruwwoeoih,raicxw
taunajrvuyjrduoxjwridrpjohsr inevrevnjjrinrdicnrevictuhwrfichwtrtejnxohs,
uhwrevuerohanjutohsreii—dinrqjreirevoh.ridrtcavruryizusjr utrevjrqite
fnjfitejnictrevohsrevuerjyjnrquhrohrtcavraonacqteuhajtraicxwrpjrscoxez
idk

PcerO,revuer utrpinhreirpjrqzri hrwjtenizjn,raicxwrhirqinjrnjtoterevj
iddjnrevuhrOraicxwrnjtenuohrqzrdonternuqpxohsrwjtoshtr vjhrqzrduevjn’t
siiwraichtjxr utrxitercfihrqjkrrOhrur inw,rOreixwrevjqrOr icxwrsir oev
uxxrqzrvjune,rodrevjzr icxwrchwjneu.jreirxii.rudejnrqzrfxuheueoihrohrqz
uptjhaj,ruhwr icxwrwotfitjridroereirtcavrutrOrtvicxwrwonjae,rodrO
qotaunnojwkrrEvotrevjzruxxrjhsusjwreirwi,ruhwrjhejnjwroheir noeohstrin
aiyjhuhetreirwirti;ruhwrOrquwjrurdinquxr oxx,rwotfitohsridrqzrfxuheueoih
uhwrjddjaetrohrautjridrqzrwjuev,rqu.ohsrevjraufeuohridrevjrtvofrevuervuw
tuyjwrqzrxodj,rutrpjdinj,rqzrchoyjntuxrvjon,rpceripxosohsrvoqreirwotfitj
idrqzrjddjaetrutrOrvuwrwonjaejwrohrqzr oxx;rihjrvuxdridrevjrfniwcajrpjohs
eirvoqtjxd,ruhwrevjrievjnreirpjrtvoffjwreirJhsxuhwk

Ohrtvine,rOreii.ruxxrfittopxjrauceoihreirfnjtjnyjrqzrjddjaetruhwreir.jjf
cfrqzrfxuheueoihkrrVuwrOrctjwrvuxdrutrqcavrfncwjhajreirvuyjrxii.jwrohei
qzri hrohejnjte,ruhwrvuyjrquwjrurbcwsqjheridr vuerOricsvereirvuyjrwihj
uhwrhiereirvuyjrwihj,rOrvuwrajneuohxzrhjyjnrsihjru uzrdniqrtirfnitfjnict
uhrchwjneu.ohs,rxjuyohsruxxrevjrfnipupxjryoj tridrurevnoyohs
aonacqteuhaj,ruhwrsihjrcfihruryizusjreirtju,rueejhwjwr oevruxxroetraiqqih
vugunwt,reirtuzrhievohsridrevjrnjutihtrOrvuwreirjmfjaerfuneoacxun
qotdinechjtreirqztjxdk

PcerOr utrvcnnojwrih,ruhwripjzjwrpxohwxzrevjrwoaeuejtridrqzrduhazrnuevjn
evuhrqzrnjutih;ruhw,ruaainwohsxz,revjrtvofrpjohsrdoeejwrice,ruhwrevj
aunsirdcnhotvjw,ruhwruxxrevohstrwihj,rutrpzrusnjjqjhe,rpzrqzrfunehjntroh
evjryizusj,rOr jherihrpiunwrohruhrjyoxrvicn,revjr1terTjfejqpjnr1659,
pjohsrevjrtuqjrwuzrjosverzjuntrevuerOr jherdniqrqzrduevjnruhwrqievjnrue
Vcxx,rohrinwjnreiruaerevjrnjpjxreirevjonrucevinoez,ruhwrevjrdiixreirqz
i hrohejnjtetk

Icnrtvofr utrupicerihjrvchwnjwruhwre jhezreihtrpcnwjh,raunnojwrtomrscht
uhwrdicnejjhrqjh,rpjtowjtrevjrqutejn,rvotrpiz,ruhwrqztjxdkrr jrvuwrih
piunwrhirxunsjraunsiridrsiiwt,rjmajferidrtcavreiztrutr jnjrdoerdinricn
enuwjr oevrevjrhjsnijt,rtcavrutrpjuwt,rpoetridrsxutt,rtvjxxt,ruhwrievjn
enodxjt,rjtfjaouxxzrxoeexjrxii.ohs-sxuttjt,r.hoyjt,rtaottint,rvueavjet,
uhwrevjrxo.jk

EvjrtuqjrwuzrOr jherihrpiunwr jrtjertuox,rteuhwohsru uzreirevjrhinev unw
cfihricnri hraiute,r oevrwjtoshreirtenjeavriyjnrdinrevjrUdnoauhraiute
 vjhr jrauqjrupicerejhrinre jxyjrwjsnjjtridrhinevjnhrxueoecwj,r voav,roe
tjjqt,r utrevjrquhhjnridraicntjrohrevitjrwuztkrr jrvuwryjnzrsiiwr juevjn,
ihxzrjmajttoyjxzrvie,ruxxrevjr uzrcfihricnri hraiute,reoxxr jrauqjreirevj
vjosveridrAufjrTekrUcscteohi;rdniqr vjhaj,r.jjfohsrdcnevjnriddruertju,r j
xitertosveridrxuhw,ruhwrtejjnjwrutrodr jr jnjrpichwrdinrevjrotxjrDjnhuhwi
wjrHinihvu,rvixwohsricnraicntjrHkJkrpzrHk,ruhwrxjuyohsrevitjrotxjtrihrevj
jutekrrOhrevotraicntjr jrfuttjwrevjrxohjrohrupicere jxyjrwuzt’reoqj,ruhw
 jnj,rpzricnrxuteriptjnyueoih,rohrtjyjhrwjsnjjtre jhez-e irqohcejt
hinevjnhrxueoecwj,r vjhruryoixjhereinhuwi,rinrvcnnoauhj,reii.rctrlcoej
iceridricnr.hi xjwsjkrrOerpjsuhrdniqrevjrticev-jute,rauqjrupicereirevj
hinev- jte,ruhwrevjhrtjeexjwrohrevjrhinev-jute;rdniqr vjhajroerpxj roh
tcavrurejnnopxjrquhhjn,revuerdinre jxyjrwuztreisjevjnr jraicxwrwirhievohs
pcerwnoyj,ruhw,rtacwwohsru uzrpjdinjroe,rxjeroeraunnzrctr voevjnrduejruhw
evjrdcnzridrevjr ohwtrwonjaejw;ruhw,rwcnohsrevjtjre jxyjrwuzt,rOrhjjwrhie
tuzrevuerOrjmfjaejwrjyjnzrwuzreirpjrt uxxi jwrcf;rhin,rohwjjw,rwowruhzroh
evjrtvofrjmfjaereirtuyjrevjonrxoyjtk

Ohrevotrwotenjttr jrvuw,rpjtowjtrevjrejnninridrevjrteinq,rihjridricnrqjh
wojridrevjrauxjhecnj,ruhwrihjrquhruhwrevjrpizr utvjwriyjnpiunwkrrUpice
evjre jxdevrwuz,revjr juevjnrupueohsrurxoeexj,revjrqutejnrquwjruh
iptjnyueoihrutr jxxrutrvjraicxw,ruhwrdichwrevuervjr utrohrupicerjxjyjh
wjsnjjtrhinevrxueoecwj,rpcerevuervjr utre jhez-e irwjsnjjtridrxihsoecwj
woddjnjhajr jterdniqrAufjrTekrUcscteohi;rtirevuervjrdichwrvjr utrcfihrevj
aiuteridrScouhu,rinrevjrhinevrfuneridrPnugox,rpjzihwrevjrnoyjnrUqugih,
ei unwrevueridrevjrnoyjnrInohiai,raiqqihxzrauxxjwrevjrSnjuerNoyjn;ruhw
pjsuhreiraihtcxer oevrqjr vueraicntjrvjrtvicxwreu.j,rdinrevjrtvofr ut
xju.z,ruhwryjnzrqcavrwotupxjw,ruhwrvjr utrsiohsrwonjaexzrpua.reirevj
aiuteridrPnugoxk

Or utrfitoeoyjxzrusuohterevue;ruhwrxii.ohsriyjnrevjravunetridrevj
tju-aiuteridrUqjnoaur oevrvoq,r jraihaxcwjwrevjnjr utrhirohvupoejw
aichenzrdinrctreirvuyjrnjaicntjreireoxxr jrauqjr oevohrevjraonaxjridrevj
AunoppjjrOtxuhwt,ruhwrevjnjdinjrnjtixyjwreirteuhwru uzrdinrPunpuwijt;
 voav,rpzr.jjfohsriddruertju,reiruyiowrevjrohwnuderidrevjrPuzrinrScxdrid
Qjmoai,r jrqosverjutoxzrfjndinq,rutr jrvifjw,rohrupicerdodejjhrwuzt’
tuox;r vjnjutr jraicxwrhierfittopxzrqu.jricnryizusjreirevjraiuterid
Udnoaur oevicertiqjruttoteuhajrpievreiricnrtvofruhwreiricntjxyjtk

 oevrevotrwjtoshr jravuhsjwricnraicntj,ruhwrtejjnjwru uzrHk krpzr k,roh
inwjnreirnjuavrtiqjridricnrJhsxotvrotxuhwt,r vjnjrOrvifjwrdinrnjxojdk
Pcericnryizusjr utrievjn otjrwjejnqohjw;rdin,rpjohsrohrevjrxueoecwjrid
e jxyjrwjsnjjtrjosvejjhrqohcejt,rurtjaihwrteinqrauqjrcfihrct,r voav
aunnojwrctru uzr oevrevjrtuqjroqfjecitoezr jte unw,ruhwrwniyjrctrtirice
idrevjr uzridruxxrvcquhraiqqjnaj,revue,rvuwruxxricnrxoyjtrpjjhrtuyjwrut
eirevjrtju,r jr jnjrnuevjnrohrwuhsjnridrpjohsrwjyicnjwrpzrtuyusjtrevuh
jyjnrnjecnhohsreiricnri hraichenzk

Ohrevotrwotenjtt,revjr ohwrteoxxrpxi ohsryjnzrvunw,rihjridricnrqjhrjunxz
ohrevjrqinhohsranojwrice,r“Xuhw!”ruhwr jrvuwrhirtiihjnrnchriceridrevj
aupohreirxii.rice,rohrvifjtridrtjjohsr vjnjupicetrohrevjr inxwr jr jnj,
evuhrevjrtvofrtenca.rcfihrurtuhw,ruhwrohrurqiqjhervjnrqieoihrpjohsrti
teiffjw,revjrtjurpni.jriyjnrvjnrohrtcavrurquhhjnrevuer jrjmfjaejwr j
tvicxwruxxrvuyjrfjnotvjwroqqjwouejxz;ruhwr jr jnjroqqjwouejxzrwnoyjhrohei
icnraxitjrlcunejnt,reirtvjxejnrctrdniqrevjryjnzrdiuqruhwrtfnuzridrevj
tjuk

Oerotrhierjutzrdinruhzrihjr virvutrhierpjjhrohrevjrxo.jraihwoeoihrei
wjtanopjrinraihajoyjrevjraihtejnhueoihridrqjhrohrtcavraonacqteuhajtkrr j
.hj rhievohsr vjnjr jr jnj,rinrcfihr vuerxuhwroer utr jr jnj
wnoyjh— vjevjnruhrotxuhwrinrevjrquoh,r vjevjnrohvupoejwrinrhierohvupoejwk
Utrevjrnusjridrevjr ohwr utrteoxxrsnjue,revicsvrnuevjnrxjttrevuhrue
donte,r jraicxwrhiertirqcavrutrvifjreirvuyjrevjrtvofrvixwrquhzrqohcejt
 oevicerpnju.ohsroheirfojajt,rchxjttrevjr ohwt,rpzrur.ohwridrqonuaxj,
tvicxwrecnhroqqjwouejxzrupicekrrOhrur inw,r jrtuerxii.ohsrcfihrihj
uhievjn,ruhwrjmfjaeohsrwjuevrjyjnzrqiqjhe,ruhwrjyjnzrquh,ruaainwohsxz,
fnjfunohsrdinruhievjnr inxw;rdinrevjnjr utrxoeexjrinrhievohsrqinjrdinrct
eirwirohrevotkrrEvuer voavr utricnrfnjtjheraiqdine,ruhwruxxrevjraiqdine
 jrvuw,r utrevue,raihenunzreiricnrjmfjaeueoih,revjrtvofrwowrhierpnju.
zje,ruhwrevuerevjrqutejnrtuowrevjr ohwrpjsuhreirupuejk

Hi ,revicsvr jrevicsverevuerevjr ohwrwowrurxoeexjrupuej,rzjerevjrtvof
vuyohsrevctrtenca.rcfihrevjrtuhw,ruhwrteoa.ohsreiirduterdinrctreirjmfjae
vjnrsjeeohsridd,r jr jnjrohrurwnjuwdcxraihwoeoihrohwjjw,ruhwrvuwrhievohs
eirwirpcereirevoh.ridrtuyohsricnrxoyjtrutr jxxrutr jraicxwkrr jrvuwru
piueruericnrtejnhrbcterpjdinjrevjrteinq,rpcertvjr utrdonterteuyjwrpz
wutvohsrusuohterevjrtvof’trncwwjn,ruhwrohrevjrhjmerfxuajrtvjrpni.jru uz,
uhwrjoevjnrtch.rinr utrwnoyjhriddreirtju;rtirevjnjr utrhirvifjrdniqrvjnk
 jrvuwruhievjnrpiuerihrpiunw,rpcervi reirsjervjnriddroheirevjrtjur utru
wicpedcxrevohskrrVi jyjn,revjnjr utrhireoqjreirwjpuej,rdinr jrduhaojw
evuerevjrtvofr icxwrpnju.rohrfojajtrjyjnzrqohcej,ruhwrtiqjreixwrctrtvj
 utruaecuxxzrpni.jhruxnjuwzk

Ohrevotrwotenjttrevjrquejridricnryjttjxrxuowrvixwridrevjrpiue,ruhwr oev
evjrvjxfridrevjrnjteridrevjrqjhrsiervjnrtxchsriyjnrevjrtvof’trtowj;ruhw
sjeeohsruxxroheirvjn,rxjersi,ruhwraiqqoeejwricntjxyjt,rpjohsrjxjyjhroh
hcqpjn,reirSiw’trqjnazruhwrevjr oxwrtju;rdinrevicsvrevjrteinqr utrupuejw
aihtowjnupxz,rzjerevjrtjurnuhrwnjuwdcxxzrvosvrcfihrevjrtvinj,ruhwrqosve
pjr jxxrauxxjwr_wjhr oxwrgjj_,rutrevjrWceavrauxxrevjrtjurohrurteinqk

Uhwrhi ricnrautjr utryjnzrwotquxrohwjjw;rdinr jruxxrtu rfxuohxzrevuerevj
tjur jhertirvosvrevuerevjrpiueraicxwrhierxoyj,ruhwrevuer jrtvicxwrpj
ohjyoeupxzrwni hjwkrrUtreirqu.ohsrtuox,r jrvuwrhihj,rhinrodr jrvuwraicxw
 jrvuyjrwihjruhzevohsr oevroe;rtir jr in.jwruerevjriunrei unwtrevjrxuhw,
evicsvr oevrvjuyzrvjunet,rxo.jrqjhrsiohsreirjmjaceoih;rdinr jruxxr.hj 
evuer vjhrevjrpiuerauqjrhjunrevjrtvinjrtvjr icxwrpjrwutvjwrohrurevictuhw
fojajtrpzrevjrpnjuavridrevjrtjukrrVi jyjn,r jraiqqoeejwricnrticxtreirSiw
ohrevjrqiterjunhjterquhhjn;ruhwrevjr ohwrwnoyohsrctrei unwtrevjrtvinj,r j
vutejhjwricnrwjtencaeoihr oevricnri hrvuhwt,rfcxxohsrutr jxxrutr jraicxw
ei unwtrxuhwk

 vuerevjrtvinjr ut,r vjevjnrnia.rinrtuhw,r vjevjnrtejjfrinrtviux,r jr.hj 
hiekrrEvjrihxzrvifjrevueraicxwrnueoihuxxzrsoyjrctrevjrxjutertvuwi rid
jmfjaeueoihr ut,rodr jrqosverdohwrtiqjrpuzrinrscxd,rinrevjrqicevridrtiqj
noyjn,r vjnjrpzrsnjueravuhajr jrqosvervuyjrnchricnrpiueroh,rinrsierchwjn
evjrxjjridrevjrxuhw,ruhwrfjnvuftrquwjrtqiievr uejnkrrPcerevjnjr ut
hievohsrxo.jrevotruffjunjw;rpcerutr jrquwjrhjunjnruhwrhjunjnrevjrtvinj,
evjrxuhwrxii.jwrqinjrdnosvedcxrevuhrevjrtjuk

Udejnr jrvuwrni jw,rinrnuevjnrwnoyjhrupicerurxjuscjruhwrurvuxd,rutr j
nja.ihjwroe,rurnusohsr uyj,rqicheuoh-xo.j,rauqjrnixxohsrutejnhridrct,ruhw
fxuohxzrpuwjrctrjmfjaerevjr_aicfrwjrsnâaj_krrOereii.rctr oevrtcavrurdcnz,
evueroeriyjntjerevjrpiueruerihaj;ruhwrtjfunueohsrctrutr jxxrdniqrevjrpiue
utrdniqrihjruhievjn,rsuyjrctrhireoqjreirtuz,r“IrSiw!”rdinr jr jnjruxx
t uxxi jwrcfrohrurqiqjhek

Hievohsrauhrwjtanopjrevjraihdctoihridrevicsver voavrOrdjxer vjhrOrtuh.
oheirevjr uejn;rdinrevicsvrOrt uqryjnzr jxx,rzjerOraicxwrhierwjxoyjn
qztjxdrdniqrevjr uyjtrtirutreirwnu rpnjuev,reoxxrevuer uyjrvuyohsrwnoyjh
qj,rinrnuevjnraunnojwrqj,ruryuter uzrihrei unwtrevjrtvinj,ruhwrvuyohs
tfjheroetjxd,r jherpua.,ruhwrxjderqjrcfihrevjrxuhwruxqiterwnz,rpcervuxd
wjuwr oevrevjr uejnrOreii.rohkrrOrvuwrtirqcavrfnjtjhajridrqohw,rutr jxx
utrpnjuevrxjde,revuertjjohsrqztjxdrhjunjnrevjrquohxuhwrevuhrOrjmfjaejw,rO
siercfihrqzrdjje,ruhwrjhwjuyicnjwreirqu.jrihrei unwtrevjrxuhwrutrduterut
Oraicxwrpjdinjruhievjnr uyjrtvicxwrnjecnhruhwreu.jrqjrcfrusuoh;rpcerO
tiihrdichwroer utroqfittopxjreiruyiowroe;rdinrOrtu revjrtjuraiqjrudejnrqj
utrvosvrutrursnjuervoxx,ruhwrutrdcnoictrutruhrjhjqz,r voavrOrvuwrhirqjuht
inrtenjhsevreiraihejhwr oev:rqzrpctohjttr utreirvixwrqzrpnjuev,ruhwrnuotj
qztjxdrcfihrevjr uejnrodrOraicxw;ruhwrti,rpzrt oqqohs,reirfnjtjnyjrqz
pnjuevohs,ruhwrfoxierqztjxdrei unwtrevjrtvinj,rodrfittopxj,rqzrsnjuejte
aihajnhrhi rpjohsrevuerevjrtju,rutroer icxwraunnzrqjrursnjuer uzrei unwt
evjrtvinjr vjhroerauqjrih,rqosverhieraunnzrqjrpua.rusuohr oevroer vjhroe
suyjrpua.rei unwtrevjrtjuk

Evjr uyjrevuerauqjrcfihrqjrusuohrpcnojwrqjruerihajre jhezrinrevonezrdjje
wjjfrohroetri hrpiwz,ruhwrOraicxwrdjjxrqztjxdraunnojwr oevrurqosvezrdinaj
uhwrt odehjttrei unwtrevjrtvinj—uryjnzrsnjuer uz;rpcerOrvjxwrqzrpnjuev,
uhwruttotejwrqztjxdreirt oqrteoxxrdin unwr oevruxxrqzrqosvekrrOr utrnjuwz
eirpcnter oevrvixwohsrqzrpnjuev,r vjh,rutrOrdjxerqztjxdrnotohsrcf,rti,rei
qzroqqjwouejrnjxojd,rOrdichwrqzrvjuwruhwrvuhwtrtviiericerupiyjrevj
tcnduajridrevjr uejn;ruhwrevicsvroer utrhiere irtjaihwtridreoqjrevuerO
aicxwr.jjfrqztjxdrti,rzjeroernjxojyjwrqjrsnjuexz,rsuyjrqjrpnjuev,ruhwrhj 
aicnusjkrrOr utraiyjnjwrusuohr oevr uejnrursiiwr voxj,rpcerhiertirxihs
pcerOrvjxwroerice;ruhwrdohwohsrevjr uejnrvuwrtfjheroetjxd,ruhwrpjsuhrei
njecnh,rOrtenca.rdin unwrusuohterevjrnjecnhridrevjr uyjt,ruhwrdjxersnichw
usuohr oevrqzrdjjekrrOrteiiwrteoxxrurdj rqiqjhetreirnjaiyjnrpnjuev,ruhw
eoxxrevjr uejntr jherdniqrqj,ruhwrevjhreii.reirqzrvjjxtruhwrnuhr oevr vue
tenjhsevrOrvuwrdcnevjnrei unwtrevjrtvinjkrrPcerhjoevjnr icxwrevotrwjxoyjn
qjrdniqrevjrdcnzridrevjrtju,r voavrauqjrficnohsrohrudejnrqjrusuoh;ruhw
e oajrqinjrOr utrxodejwrcfrpzrevjr uyjtruhwraunnojwrdin unwrutrpjdinj,
evjrtvinjrpjohsryjnzrdxuek

Evjrxutereoqjridrevjtjre irvuwr jxx-hosvrpjjhrdueuxreirqj,rdinrevjrtju
vuyohsrvcnnojwrqjruxihsrutrpjdinj,rxuhwjwrqj,rinrnuevjnrwutvjwrqj,
usuohterurfojajridrnia.,ruhwrevuer oevrtcavrdinaj,revueroerxjderqj
tjhtjxjtt,ruhwrohwjjwrvjxfxjtt,rutreirqzri hrwjxoyjnuhaj;rdinrevjrpxi 
eu.ohsrqzrtowjruhwrpnjute,rpjuerevjrpnjuevrutroer jnjrlcoejriceridrqz
piwz;ruhwrvuwroernjecnhjwrusuohroqqjwouejxz,rOrqctervuyjrpjjhrtenuhsxjw
ohrevjr uejn;rpcerOrnjaiyjnjwrurxoeexjrpjdinjrevjrnjecnhridrevjr uyjt,
uhwrtjjohsrOrtvicxwrpjraiyjnjwrusuohr oevrevjr uejn,rOrnjtixyjwreirvixw
duterpzrurfojajridrevjrnia.,ruhwrtireirvixwrqzrpnjuev,rodrfittopxj,reoxx
evjr uyjr jherpua.krrHi ,rutrevjr uyjtr jnjrhiertirvosvrutruerdonte,
pjohsrhjunjnrxuhw,rOrvjxwrqzrvixwreoxxrevjr uyjrupuejw,ruhwrevjhrdjeavjw
uhievjnrnch,r voavrpnicsverqjrtirhjunrevjrtvinjrevuerevjrhjmer uyj,
evicsvroer jheriyjnrqj,rzjerwowrhiertirt uxxi rqjrcfrutreiraunnzrqjru uz;
uhwrevjrhjmernchrOreii.,rOrsiereirevjrquohxuhw,r vjnj,reirqzrsnjue
aiqdine,rOraxuqpjnjwrcfrevjraxoddtridrevjrtvinjruhwrtuerqjrwi hrcfihrevj
snutt,rdnjjrdniqrwuhsjnruhwrlcoejriceridrevjrnjuavridrevjr uejnk

Or utrhi rxuhwjwruhwrtudjrihrtvinj,ruhwrpjsuhreirxii.rcfruhwrevuh.rSiw
evuerqzrxodjr utrtuyjw,rohrurautjr vjnjohrevjnjr utrtiqjrqohcejtrpjdinj
taunajruhzrniiqreirvifjkrrOrpjxojyjroerotroqfittopxjreirjmfnjtt,reirevj
xodj,r vuerevjrjateutojtruhwrenuhtfinetridrevjrticxrunj,r vjhroerotrti
tuyjw,rutrOrquzrtuz,riceridrevjryjnzrsnuyj:ruhwrOrwirhier ihwjnrhi rue
evjracteiq,r vjhrurquxjduaein,r virvutrevjrvuxejnrupicervotrhja.,rotreojw
cf,ruhwrbctersiohsreirpjrecnhjwridd,ruhwrvutrurnjfnojyjrpnicsvereirvoq—O
tuz,rOrwirhier ihwjnrevuerevjzrpnohsrurtcnsjihr oevroe,reirxjervoqrpxiiw
evueryjnzrqiqjherevjzrejxxrvoqridroe,revuerevjrtcnfnotjrquzrhierwnoyjrevj
uhoquxrtfonoetrdniqrevjrvjuneruhwriyjn vjxqrvoqk

rrrr“Dinrtcwwjhrbizt,rxo.jrsnojdt,raihdichwruerdontek”

Or ux.jwrupicerihrevjrtvinjrxodeohsrcfrqzrvuhwt,ruhwrqzr vixjrpjohs,rutrO
quzrtuz,r nuffjwrcfrohruraihejqfxueoihridrqzrwjxoyjnuhaj;rqu.ohsru
evictuhwrsjtecnjtruhwrqieoiht,r voavrOrauhhierwjtanopj;rnjdxjaeohsrcfih
uxxrqzraiqnuwjtrevuer jnjrwni hjw,ruhwrevuerevjnjrtvicxwrhierpjrihjrticx
tuyjwrpcerqztjxd;rdin,rutrdinrevjq,rOrhjyjnrtu revjqrudejn unwt,rinruhz
toshridrevjq,rjmajferevnjjridrevjonrvuet,rihjrauf,ruhwre irtvijtrevue
 jnjrhierdjxxi tk

Orauterqzrjzjreirevjrtenuhwjwryjttjx,r vjh,revjrpnjuavruhwrdnievridrevj
tjurpjohsrtirpos,rOraicxwrvunwxzrtjjroe,roerxuzrtirdunrid;ruhw
aihtowjnjw,rXinw!rvi r utroerfittopxjrOraicxwrsjerihrtvinj?

UdejnrOrvuwrtixuajwrqzrqohwr oevrevjraiqdineupxjrfuneridrqzraihwoeoih,rO
pjsuhreirxii.rnichwrqj,reirtjjr vuer.ohwridrfxuajrOr utroh,ruhwr vuer ut
hjmereirpjrwihj;ruhwrOrtiihrdichwrqzraiqdinetrupuej,ruhwrevue,rohrur inw,
Orvuwrurwnjuwdcxrwjxoyjnuhaj;rdinrOr utr je,rvuwrhiraxievjtreirtvoderqj,
hinruhzevohsrjoevjnreirjuerinrwnoh.reiraiqdinerqj;rhjoevjnrwowrOrtjjruhz
fnitfjaerpjdinjrqjrpcerevueridrfjnotvohsr oevrvchsjnrinrpjohsrwjyicnjwrpz
 oxwrpjutet;ruhwrevuer voavr utrfuneoacxunxzruddxoaeohsreirqjr ut,revuerO
vuwrhir jufih,rjoevjnreirvcheruhwr.oxxruhzranjuecnjrdinrqzrtctejhuhaj,rin
eirwjdjhwrqztjxdrusuohteruhzrievjnranjuecnjrevuerqosverwjtonjreir.oxxrqj
dinrevjontkrrOhrur inw,rOrvuwrhievohsrupicerqjrpcerur.hodj,ru
eipuaai-fofj,ruhwrurxoeexjreipuaairohrurpimkrrEvotr utruxxrqzrfniyotoiht;
uhwrevotrevnj rqjroheirtcavrejnnopxjrusihojtridrqohw,revuerdinrur voxjrO
nuhrupicerxo.jrurquwquhkrrHosveraiqohsrcfihrqj,rOrpjsuhr oevrurvjuyz
vjunereiraihtowjnr vuer icxwrpjrqzrxierodrevjnjr jnjruhzrnuyjhictrpjutet
ohrevueraichenz,rutruerhosverevjzrux uztraiqjrupniuwrdinrevjonrfnjzk

Uxxrevjrnjqjwzrevueriddjnjwreirqzrevicsvetruerevuereoqjr utreirsjercf
oheirurevoa.rpctvzrenjjrxo.jrurdon,rpcerevinhz,r voavrsnj rhjunrqj,ruhw
 vjnjrOrnjtixyjwreirtoeruxxrhosve,ruhwraihtowjnrevjrhjmerwuzr vuerwjuevrO
tvicxwrwoj,rdinrutrzjerOrtu rhirfnitfjaeridrxodjkrrOr ux.jwrupiceru
dcnxihsrdniqrevjrtvinj,reirtjjrodrOraicxwrdohwruhzrdnjtvr uejnreirwnoh.,
 voavrOrwow,reirqzrsnjuerbiz;ruhwrvuyohsrwnuh.,ruhwrfcerurxoeexjreipuaai
oheirqzrqicevreirfnjyjhervchsjn,rOr jhereirevjrenjj,ruhwrsjeeohsrcfrohei
oe,rjhwjuyicnjwreirfxuajrqztjxdrtirevuerodrOrtvicxwrtxjjfrOrqosverhie
duxxkrrUhwrvuyohsracerqjrurtvinerteoa.,rxo.jrurenchavjih,rdinrqzrwjdjhaj,
Oreii.rcfrqzrxiwsohs;ruhwrvuyohsrpjjhrjmajttoyjxzrdueoscjw,rOrdjxxrdute
utxjjf,ruhwrtxjferutraiqdineupxzrut,rOrpjxojyj,rdj raicxwrvuyjrwihjrohrqz
aihwoeoih,ruhwrdichwrqztjxdrqinjrnjdnjtvjwr oevroerevuh,rOrevoh.,rOrjyjn
 utrihrtcavruhriaautoihk




AVUFEJNrOY—DONTEr JJ.TrIHrEVJrOTXUHW


 vjhrOr u.jwroer utrpniuwrwuz,revjr juevjnraxjun,ruhwrevjrteinqrupuejw,
tirevuerevjrtjurwowrhiernusjruhwrt jxxrutrpjdinjkrrPcerevuer voav
tcnfnotjwrqjrqiter ut,revuerevjrtvofr utrxodejwriddrohrevjrhosverdniqrevj
tuhwr vjnjrtvjrxuzrpzrevjrt jxxohsridrevjreowj,ruhwr utrwnoyjhrcfruxqite
utrdunrutrevjrnia.r voavrOruerdonterqjheoihjw,r vjnjrOrvuwrpjjhrti
pncotjwrpzrevjr uyjrwutvohsrqjrusuohteroekrrEvotrpjohsr oevohrupiceru
qoxjrdniqrevjrtvinjr vjnjrOr ut,ruhwrevjrtvofrtjjqohsreirteuhwrcfnosve
teoxx,rOr otvjwrqztjxdrihrpiunw,revueruerxjuterOrqosvertuyjrtiqj
hjajttunzrevohstrdinrqzrctjk

 vjhrOrauqjrwi hrdniqrqzrufuneqjherohrevjrenjj,rOrxii.jwrupicerqjrusuoh,
uhwrevjrdonterevohsrOrdichwr utrevjrpiue,r voavrxuz,rutrevjr ohwruhwrevj
tjurvuwreittjwrvjnrcf,rcfihrevjrxuhw,rupicere irqoxjtrihrqzrnosvervuhwk
Or ux.jwrutrdunrutrOraicxwrcfihrevjrtvinjreirvuyjrsiereirvjn;rpcerdichwru
hja.rinrohxjeridr uejnrpje jjhrqjruhwrevjrpiuer voavr utrupicervuxdru
qoxjrpniuw;rtirOrauqjrpua.rdinrevjrfnjtjhe,rpjohsrqinjrohejhercfih
sjeeohsruerevjrtvof,r vjnjrOrvifjwreirdohwrtiqjevohsrdinrqzrfnjtjhe
tcptotejhajk

UrxoeexjrudejnrhiihrOrdichwrevjrtjuryjnzrauxq,ruhwrevjreowjrjppjwrtirdun
icerevuerOraicxwraiqjr oevohrurlcunejnridrurqoxjridrevjrtvofkrrUhwrvjnjrO
dichwrurdnjtvrnjhj ohsridrqzrsnojd;rdinrOrtu rjyowjhexzrevuerodr jrvuw
.jferihrpiunwr jrvuwrpjjhruxxrtudj—evuerotreirtuz,r jrvuwruxxrsiertudjrih
tvinj,ruhwrOrvuwrhierpjjhrtirqotjnupxjrutreirpjrxjderjheonjxzrwjteoecej
idruxxraiqdineruhwraiqfuhzrutrOrhi r utkrrEvotrdinajwrejuntreirqzrjzjt
usuoh;rpcerutrevjnjr utrxoeexjrnjxojdrohrevue,rOrnjtixyjw,rodrfittopxj,
eirsjereirevjrtvof;rtirOrfcxxjwriddrqzraxievjt—dinrevjr juevjnr utrvierei
jmenjqoez—uhwreii.revjr uejnkrrPcer vjhrOrauqjreirevjrtvofrqzrwoddoacxez
 utrteoxxrsnjuejnreir.hi rvi reirsjerihrpiunw;rdin,rutrtvjrxuzrusnichw,
uhwrvosvriceridrevjr uejn,revjnjr utrhievohsr oevohrqzrnjuavreirxuzrvixw
idkrrOrt uqrnichwrvjnre oaj,ruhwrevjrtjaihwreoqjrOrtfojwrurtquxxrfojajrid
nifj,r voavrOr ihwjnjwrOrwowrhiertjjruerdonte,rvchsrwi hrpzrevj
dinj-avuohtrtirxi ,rutrevuer oevrsnjuerwoddoacxezrOrsiervixwridroe,ruhw
pzrevjrvjxfridrevuernifjrOrsiercfroheirevjrdinjautexjridrevjrtvofkrrVjnj
Ordichwrevuerevjrtvofr utrpcxsjw,ruhwrvuwrursnjuerwjuxridr uejnrohrvjn
vixw,rpcerevuertvjrxuzrtirihrevjrtowjridrurpuh.ridrvunwrtuhw,rin,rnuevjn
junev,revuervjnrtejnhrxuzrxodejwrcfrcfihrevjrpuh.,ruhwrvjnrvjuwrxi ,
uxqitereirevjr uejnkrrPzrevotrqjuhtruxxrvjnrlcunejnr utrdnjj,ruhwruxx
evuer utrohrevuerfuner utrwnz;rdinrzicrquzrpjrtcnjrqzrdonter in.r utrei
tjunav,ruhwreirtjjr vuer utrtfioxjwruhwr vuer utrdnjjkrrUhw,rdonte,rO
dichwrevueruxxrevjrtvof’trfniyotoihtr jnjrwnzruhwrcheicavjwrpzrevjr uejn,
uhwrpjohsryjnzr jxxrwotfitjwreirjue,rOr jhereirevjrpnjuwrniiqruhwrdoxxjw
qzrfia.jetr oevrpotacoe,ruhwruejroerutrOr jherupicerievjnrevohst,rdinrO
vuwrhireoqjreirxitjkrrOruxtirdichwrtiqjrncqrohrevjrsnjueraupoh,ridr voav
Oreii.rurxunsjrwnuq,ruhwr voavrOrvuw,rohwjjw,rhjjwrjhicsvridreirtfonoerqj
dinr vuer utrpjdinjrqjkrrHi rOr uhejwrhievohsrpcerurpiuereirdcnhotv
qztjxdr oevrquhzrevohstr voavrOrdinjtu r icxwrpjryjnzrhjajttunzreirqjk

Oer utrohryuohreirtoerteoxxruhwr otvrdinr vuer utrhiereirpjrvuw;ruhwrevot
jmenjqoezrnictjwrqzruffxoaueoihkrr jrvuwrtjyjnuxrtfunjrzunwt,ruhwre irin
evnjjrxunsjrtfuntridr iiw,ruhwrurtfunjreifquterinre irohrevjrtvof;rO
njtixyjwreirduxxreir in.r oevrevjtj,ruhwrOrdxchsrutrquhzridrevjq
iyjnpiunwrutrOraicxwrquhusjrdinrevjonr josve,rezohsrjyjnzrihjr oevru
nifj,revuerevjzrqosverhierwnoyjru uzkrr vjhrevotr utrwihjrOr jherwi hrevj
tvof’trtowj,ruhwrfcxxohsrevjqreirqj,rOreojwrdicnridrevjqreisjevjnruerpiev
jhwtrutr jxxrutrOraicxw,rohrevjrdinqridrurnude,ruhwrxuzohsre irinrevnjj
tvinerfojajtridrfxuh.rcfihrevjqranitt uzt,rOrdichwrOraicxwr ux.rcfihroe
yjnzr jxx,rpcerevueroer utrhierupxjreirpjunruhzrsnjuer josve,revjrfojajt
pjohsreiirxosvekrrTirOr jhereir in.,ruhwr oevruraunfjhejn’trtu rOraceru
tfunjreifquteroheirevnjjrxjhsevt,ruhwruwwjwrevjqreirqzrnude,r oevrursnjue
wjuxridrxupicnruhwrfuohtkrrPcerevjrvifjridrdcnhotvohsrqztjxdr oev
hjajttunojtrjhaicnusjwrqjreirsirpjzihwr vuerOrtvicxwrvuyjrpjjhrupxjrei
vuyjrwihjrcfihruhievjnriaautoihk

Qzrnuder utrhi rtenihsrjhicsvreirpjunruhzrnjutihupxjr josvekrrQzrhjme
aunjr utr vuereirxiuwroer oev,ruhwrvi reirfnjtjnyjr vuerOrxuowrcfihroe
dniqrevjrtcndridrevjrtju;rpcerOr utrhierxihsraihtowjnohsrevotkrrOrdonte
xuowruxxrevjrfxuh.trinrpiunwtrcfihroerevuerOraicxwrsje,ruhwrvuyohs
aihtowjnjwr jxxr vuerOrqiter uhejw,rOrsierevnjjridrevjrtjuqjh’travjtet,
 voavrOrvuwrpni.jhrifjh,ruhwrjqfeojw,ruhwrxi jnjwrevjqrwi hrcfihrqzrnude;
evjrdonteridrevjtjrOrdoxxjwr oevrfniyotoiht—yogkrpnjuw,rnoaj,revnjjrWceav
avjjtjt,rdoyjrfojajtridrwnojwrsiue’trdxjtvr( voavr jrxoyjwrqcavrcfih),
uhwrurxoeexjrnjquohwjnridrJcnifjuhrainh,r voavrvuwrpjjhrxuowrpzrdinrtiqj
di xtr voavr jrpnicsvereirtjur oevrct,rpcerevjrdi xtr jnjr.oxxjwkrrEvjnj
vuwrpjjhrtiqjrpunxjzruhwr vjuereisjevjn;rpce,reirqzrsnjuerwotuffioheqjhe,
Ordichwrudejn unwtrevuerevjrnuetrvuwrjuejhrinrtfioxjwroeruxxkrrUtrdin
xolcint,rOrdichwrtjyjnux,rautjtridrpieexjtrpjxihsohsreiricnrt.offjn,roh
 voavr jnjrtiqjrainwouxr uejnt;ruhw,rohruxx,rupicerdoyjrinrtomrsuxxihtrid
nua.krrEvjtjrOrtei jwrpzrevjqtjxyjt,revjnjrpjohsrhirhjjwreirfcerevjqrohei
evjravjte,rhinruhzrniiqrdinrevjqkrr voxjrOr utrwiohsrevot,rOrdichwrevj
eowjrpjsohreirdxi ,revicsvryjnzrauxq;ruhwrOrvuwrevjrqineodoaueoihreirtjj
qzraiue,rtvone,ruhwr uoteaiue,r voavrOrvuwrxjderihrevjrtvinj,rcfihrevj
tuhw,rt oqru uzkrrUtrdinrqzrpnjjavjt,r voavr jnjrihxzrxohjh,ruhw
ifjh-.hjjw,rOrt uqrihrpiunwrohrevjqruhwrqzrteia.ohstkrrVi jyjn,revotrtje
qjrihrncqqusohsrdinraxievjt,ridr voavrOrdichwrjhicsv,rpcereii.rhirqinj
evuhrOr uhejwrdinrfnjtjherctj,rdinrOrvuwrievjntrevohstr voavrqzrjzjr ut
qinjrcfih—ut,rdonte,reiixtreir in.r oevrihrtvinjkrrUhwroer utrudejnrxihs
tjunavohsrevuerOrdichwricerevjraunfjhejn’travjte,r voavr ut,rohwjjw,ru
yjnzrctjdcxrfnogjreirqj,ruhwrqcavrqinjryuxcupxjrevuhrurtvofxiuwridrsixw
 icxwrvuyjrpjjhruerevuereoqjkrrOrsieroerwi hreirqzrnude,r vixjrutroer ut,
 oevicerxitohsreoqjreirxii.roheiroe,rdinrOr.hj rohrsjhjnuxr vueroe
aiheuohjwk

Qzrhjmeraunjr utrdinrtiqjruqqchoeoihruhwrunqtkrrEvjnjr jnjre iryjnzrsiiw
di xohs-fojajtrohrevjrsnjueraupoh,ruhwre irfoteixtkrrEvjtjrOrtjacnjw
donte,r oevrtiqjrfi wjn-vinhtruhwrurtquxxrpusridrtvie,ruhwre irixwrnctez
t inwtkrrOr.hj revjnjr jnjrevnjjrpunnjxtridrfi wjnrohrevjrtvof,rpcer.hj 
hier vjnjricnrschhjnrvuwrtei jwrevjq;rpcer oevrqcavrtjunavrOrdichwrevjq,
e iridrevjqrwnzruhwrsiiw,revjrevonwrvuwreu.jhr uejnkrrEvitjre irOrsierei
qzrnuder oevrevjrunqtkrrUhwrhi rOrevicsverqztjxdrfnjeezr jxxrdnjosvejw,
uhwrpjsuhreirevoh.rvi rOrtvicxwrsjereirtvinjr oevrevjq,rvuyohsrhjoevjn
tuox,riun,rhinrncwwjn;ruhwrevjrxjuteraufdcxridr ohwr icxwrvuyjriyjntje
uxxrqzrhuyosueoihk

Orvuwrevnjjrjhaicnusjqjhet—1te,rurtqiiev,rauxqrtju;r2hwxz,revjreowj
notohs,ruhwrtjeeohsrohreirevjrtvinj;r3nwxz,r vuerxoeexjr ohwrevjnjr ut
pxj rqjrei unwtrevjrxuhwkrrUhwrevct,rvuyohsrdichwre irinrevnjjrpni.jh
iuntrpjxihsohsreirevjrpiue—uhw,rpjtowjtrevjreiixtr voavr jnjrohrevj
avjte,rOrdichwre irtu t,ruhrumj,ruhwrurvuqqjn;r oevrevotraunsirOrfcerei
tjukrrDinrurqoxjrinrevjnjupicetrqzrnuder jheryjnzr jxx,rihxzrevuerOrdichw
oerwnoyjrurxoeexjrwoteuherdniqrevjrfxuajr vjnjrOrvuwrxuhwjwrpjdinj;rpz
 voavrOrfjnajoyjwrevuerevjnjr utrtiqjrohwnuderidrevjr uejn,ruhw
aihtjlcjhexzrOrvifjwreirdohwrtiqjranjj.rinrnoyjnrevjnj,r voavrOrqosve
qu.jrctjridrutrurfinereirsjereirxuhwr oevrqzraunsik

UtrOroqusohjw,rtiroer utkrrEvjnjruffjunjwrpjdinjrqjrurxoeexjrifjhohsrid
evjrxuhw,ruhwrOrdichwrurtenihsracnnjheridrevjreowjrtjeroheiroe;rtirO
scowjwrqzrnuderutr jxxrutrOraicxw,reir.jjfrohrevjrqowwxjridrevjrtenjuqk

PcervjnjrOrvuwrxo.jreirvuyjrtcddjnjwrurtjaihwrtvof nja.,r voav,rodrOrvuw,
Orevoh.ryjnoxzr icxwrvuyjrpni.jhrqzrvjune;rdin,r.hi ohsrhievohsridrevj
aiute,rqzrnudernuhrusnichwruerihjrjhwridroercfihrurtviux,ruhwrhierpjohs
usnichwruerevjrievjnrjhw,roer uhejwrpcerurxoeexjrevueruxxrqzraunsirvuw
txoffjwriddrei unwtrevjrjhwrevuer utrudxiue,ruhwreirduxxjhroheirevj
 uejnkrrOrwowrqzrceqite,rpzrtjeeohsrqzrpua.rusuohterevjravjtet,reir.jjf
evjqrohrevjonrfxuajt,rpceraicxwrhierevncteriddrevjrnuder oevruxxrqz
tenjhsev;rhjoevjnrwcnterOrteonrdniqrevjrfitecnjrOr utroh;rpcervixwohsrcf
evjravjtetr oevruxxrqzrqosve,rOrteiiwrohrevuerquhhjnrhjunrvuxd-uh-vicn,
ohr voavreoqjrevjrnotohsridrevjr uejnrpnicsverqjrurxoeexjrqinjrcfihru
xjyjx;ruhwrurxoeexjrudejn,revjr uejnrteoxx-notohs,rqzrnuderdxiuejwrusuoh,
uhwrOrevnctervjnriddr oevrevjriunrOrvuwroheirevjravuhhjx,ruhwrevjh
wnoyohsrcfrvosvjn,rOruerxjhsevrdichwrqztjxdrohrevjrqicevridrurxoeexj
noyjn,r oevrxuhwrihrpievrtowjt,ruhwrurtenihsracnnjheridreowjrnchhohsrcfk
Orxii.jwrihrpievrtowjtrdinrurfnifjnrfxuajreirsjereirtvinj,rdinrOr utrhie
 oxxohsreirpjrwnoyjhreiirvosvrcfrevjrnoyjn:rvifohsrohreoqjreirtjjrtiqj
tvoftruertju,ruhwrevjnjdinjrnjtixyjwreirfxuajrqztjxdrutrhjunrevjraiuterut
Oraicxwk

UerxjhsevrOrtfojwrurxoeexjraiyjrihrevjrnosvertvinjridrevjranjj.,reir voav
 oevrsnjuerfuohruhwrwoddoacxezrOrscowjwrqzrnude,ruhwruerxutersiertirhjun
evue,rnjuavohsrsnichwr oevrqzriun,rOraicxwrevnctervjnrwonjaexzrohkrrPce
vjnjrOrvuwrxo.jreirvuyjrwoffjwruxxrqzraunsiroheirevjrtjurusuoh;rdinrevue
tvinjrxzohsrfnjeezrtejjf—evuerotreirtuzrtxifohs—evjnjr utrhirfxuajrei
xuhw,rpcer vjnjrihjrjhwridrqzrdxiue,rodroernuhrihrtvinj,r icxwrxojrti
vosv,ruhwrevjrievjnrtoh.rxi jn,rutrpjdinj,revueroer icxwrjhwuhsjnrqz
aunsirusuohkrrUxxrevuerOraicxwrwir utreir uoereoxxrevjreowjr utruerevj
vosvjte,r.jjfohsrevjrnuder oevrqzriunrxo.jruhruhavin,reirvixwrevjrtowjrid
oerdutereirevjrtvinj,rhjunrurdxuerfojajridrsnichw,r voavrOrjmfjaejwrevj
 uejnr icxwrdxi riyjn;ruhwrtiroerwowkrrUtrtiihrutrOrdichwr uejn
jhicsv—dinrqzrnuderwnj rupicerurdiieridr uejn—Orevnctervjnrcfihrevuerdxue
fojajridrsnichw,ruhwrevjnjrdutejhjwrinrqiinjwrvjn,rpzrteoa.ohsrqzre i
pni.jhriuntroheirevjrsnichw,rihjrihrihjrtowjrhjunrihjrjhw,ruhwrihjrihrevj
ievjnrtowjrhjunrevjrievjnrjhw;ruhwrevctrOrxuzreoxxrevjr uejnrjppjwru uz,
uhwrxjderqzrnuderuhwruxxrqzraunsirtudjrihrtvinjk

Qzrhjmer in.r utreiryoj revjraichenz,ruhwrtjj.rurfnifjnrfxuajrdinrqz
vupoeueoih,ruhwr vjnjreirtei rqzrsiiwtreirtjacnjrevjqrdniqr vuejyjnrqosve
vuffjhkrr vjnjrOr ut,rOrzjer.hj rhie;r vjevjnrihrevjraiheohjherinrihruh
otxuhw;r vjevjnrohvupoejwrinrhierohvupoejw;r vjevjnrohrwuhsjnridr oxw
pjutetrinrhiekrrEvjnjr utrurvoxxrhierupiyjrurqoxjrdniqrqj,r voavrnitjrcf
yjnzrtejjfruhwrvosv,ruhwr voavrtjjqjwreiriyjneifrtiqjrievjnrvoxxt,r voav
xuzrutrohrurnowsjrdniqroerhinev unwkrrOreii.ricerihjridrevj
di xohs-fojajt,ruhwrihjridrevjrfoteixt,ruhwrurvinhridrfi wjn;ruhwrevct
unqjw,rOrenuyjxxjwrdinrwotaiyjnzrcfreirevjreifridrevuervoxx,r vjnj,rudejn
Orvuwr oevrsnjuerxupicnruhwrwoddoacxezrsiereirevjreif,rOrtu rqzrduej,rei
qzrsnjueruddxoaeoih—yogkrevuerOr utrohruhrotxuhwrjhyonihjwrjyjnzr uzr oev
evjrtju:rhirxuhwreirpjrtjjhrjmajfertiqjrnia.t,r voavrxuzrursnjuer uzridd;
uhwre irtquxxrotxuhwt,rxjttrevuhrevot,r voavrxuzrupicerevnjjrxjuscjtrei
evjr jtek

OrdichwruxtirevuerevjrotxuhwrOr utrohr utrpunnjh,ruhw,rutrOrtu rsiiw
njutihreirpjxojyj,rchohvupoejwrjmajferpzr oxwrpjutet,ridr viq,rvi jyjn,rO
tu rhihjkrrZjerOrtu rupchwuhajridrdi xt,rpcer.hj rhierevjonr.ohwt;
hjoevjnr vjhrOr.oxxjwrevjqraicxwrOrejxxr vuer utrdoerdinrdiiw,ruhwr vue
hiekrrUerqzraiqohsrpua.,rOrtvieruerursnjuerponwr voavrOrtu rtoeeohsrcfih
urenjjrihrevjrtowjridrursnjuer iiwkrrOrpjxojyjroer utrevjrdonterschrevue
vuwrpjjhrdonjwrevjnjrtohajrevjranjueoihridrevjr inxwkrrOrvuwrhirtiihjn
donjw,revuhrdniqruxxrfunetridrevjr iiwrevjnjrunitjruhrohhcqjnupxjrhcqpjn
idrdi xt,ridrquhzrtinet,rqu.ohsruraihdctjwrtanjuqohsruhwranzohs,ruhw
jyjnzrihjruaainwohsreirvotrctcuxrhiej,rpcerhierihjridrevjqridruhzr.ohw
evuerOr.hj krrUtrdinrevjranjuecnjrOr.oxxjw,rOreii.roereirpjrur.ohwrid
vu .,roetraixicnruhwrpju.rnjtjqpxohsroe,rpceroervuwrhireuxihtrinraxu t
qinjrevuhraiqqihkrrOetrdxjtvr utraunnoih,ruhwrdoerdinrhievohsk

Aihejhejwr oevrevotrwotaiyjnz,rOrauqjrpua.reirqzrnude,ruhwrdjxxreir in.
eirpnohsrqzraunsirihrtvinj,r voavreii.rqjrcfrevjrnjteridrevuerwuzkrr vue
eirwir oevrqztjxdruerhosverOr.hj rhie,rhinrohwjjwr vjnjreirnjte,rdinrO
 utrudnuowreirxojrwi hrihrevjrsnichw,rhier.hi ohsrpcertiqjr oxwrpjute
qosverwjyicnrqj,revicsv,rutrOrudejn unwtrdichw,revjnjr utrnjuxxzrhirhjjw
dinrevitjrdjuntk

Vi jyjn,rutr jxxrutrOraicxw,rOrpunnoauwjwrqztjxdrnichwr oevrevjravjteruhw
piunwtrevuerOrvuwrpnicsverihrtvinj,ruhwrquwjrur.ohwridrvcerdinrevue
hosve’trxiwsohskrrUtrdinrdiiw,rOrzjertu rhier voavr uzreirtcffxzrqztjxd,
jmajferevuerOrvuwrtjjhre irinrevnjjranjuecnjtrxo.jrvunjtrnchriceridrevj
 iiwr vjnjrOrtvierevjrdi xk

Orhi rpjsuhreiraihtowjnrevuerOrqosverzjersjerursnjuerquhzrevohstricerid
evjrtvofr voavr icxwrpjrctjdcxreirqj,ruhwrfuneoacxunxzrtiqjridrevj
nossohsruhwrtuoxt,ruhwrtcavrievjnrevohstrutrqosveraiqjreirxuhw;ruhwrO
njtixyjwreirqu.jruhievjnryizusjrihrpiunwrevjryjttjx,rodrfittopxjkrrUhwrut
Or.hj revuerevjrdonterteinqrevuerpxj rqcterhjajttunoxzrpnju.rvjnruxxroh
fojajt,rOrnjtixyjwreirtjeruxxrievjnrevohstrufunereoxxrOrvuwrsie
jyjnzevohsriceridrevjrtvofrevuerOraicxwrsjekrrEvjhrOrauxxjwru
aichaox—evuerotreirtuzrohrqzrevicsvet— vjevjnrOrtvicxwreu.jrpua.revj
nude;rpcerevotruffjunjwroqfnuaeoaupxj:rtirOrnjtixyjwreirsirutrpjdinj,
 vjhrevjreowjr utrwi h;ruhwrOrwowrti,rihxzrevuerOrtenoffjwrpjdinjrOr jhe
dniqrqzrvce,rvuyohsrhievohsrihrpcerqzravjlcjnjwrtvone,rurfuonridrxohjh
wnu jnt,ruhwrurfuonridrfcqftrihrqzrdjjek

Orsierihrpiunwrevjrtvofrutrpjdinj,ruhwrfnjfunjwrurtjaihwrnude;ruhw,
vuyohsrvuwrjmfjnojhajridrevjrdonte,rOrhjoevjnrquwjrevotrtirch ojxwz,rhin
xiuwjwroertirvunw,rpcerzjerOrpnicsveru uzrtjyjnuxrevohstryjnzrctjdcxrei
qj;rutrdonte,rohrevjraunfjhejntrteinjtrOrdichwre irinrevnjjrpustrdcxxrid
huoxtruhwrtfo.jt,rursnjuertanj -bua.,rurwigjhrinre iridrvueavjet,ruhw,
upiyjruxx,revuerqiterctjdcxrevohsrauxxjwrursnohwteihjkrrUxxrevjtjrO
tjacnjw,reisjevjnr oevrtjyjnuxrevohstrpjxihsohsreirevjrschhjn,
funeoacxunxzre irinrevnjjronihrani t,ruhwre irpunnjxtridrqct.jerpcxxjet,
tjyjhrqct.jet,ruhievjnrdi xohs-fojaj,r oevrtiqjrtquxxrlcuheoezridrfi wjn
qinj;rurxunsjrpusdcxridrtquxxrtvie,ruhwrursnjuernixxridrtvjje-xjuw;rpce
evotrxuter utrtirvjuyz,rOraicxwrhiervioteroercfreirsjeroeriyjnrevjrtvof’t
towjk

Pjtowjtrevjtjrevohst,rOreii.ruxxrevjrqjh’traxievjtrevuerOraicxwrdohw,ruhw
urtfunjrdinj-eiftuox,rurvuqqia.,ruhwrtiqjrpjwwohs;ruhwr oevrevotrOrxiuwjw
qzrtjaihwrnude,ruhwrpnicsverevjqruxxrtudjrihrtvinj,reirqzryjnzrsnjue
aiqdinek

Or utrchwjnrtiqjruffnjvjhtoih,rwcnohsrqzruptjhajrdniqrevjrxuhw,revuerue
xjuterqzrfniyotoihtrqosverpjrwjyicnjwrihrtvinj:rpcer vjhrOrauqjrpua.rO
dichwrhirtoshridruhzryotoein;rihxzrevjnjrtueruranjuecnjrxo.jrur oxwraue
cfihrihjridrevjravjtet,r voav,r vjhrOrauqjrei unwtroe,rnuhru uzrurxoeexj
woteuhaj,ruhwrevjhrteiiwrteoxxkrrTvjrtueryjnzraiqfitjwruhwrchaihajnhjw,
uhwrxii.jwrdcxxrohrqzrduaj,rutrodrtvjrvuwrurqohwreirpjrualcuohejwr oev
qjkrrOrfnjtjhejwrqzrschruervjn,rpce,rutrtvjrwowrhierchwjnteuhwroe,rtvj
 utrfjndjaexzrchaihajnhjwrueroe,rhinrwowrtvjriddjnreirteonru uz;rcfih
 voavrOreittjwrvjnrurpoeridrpotacoe,revicsvrpzrevjr uz,rOr utrhieryjnz
dnjjridroe,rdinrqzrteinjr utrhiersnjue:rvi jyjn,rOrtfunjwrvjnrurpoe,rO
tuz,ruhwrtvjr jhereiroe,rtqjxxjwrueroe,ruhwruejroe,ruhwrxii.jwr(utrod
fxjutjw)rdinrqinj;rpcerOrevuh.jwrvjn,ruhwraicxwrtfunjrhirqinj:rtirtvj
qunavjwriddk

Vuyohsrsierqzrtjaihwraunsirihrtvinj—evicsvrOr utrduohreirifjhrevjrpunnjxt
idrfi wjn,ruhwrpnohsrevjqrpzrfunajxt,rdinrevjzr jnjreiirvjuyz,rpjohs
xunsjraut.t—Or jhereir in.reirqu.jrqjrurxoeexjrejher oevrevjrtuoxruhw
tiqjrfixjtr voavrOracerdinrevuerfcnfitj:ruhwroheirevotrejherOrpnicsve
jyjnzevohsrevuerOr.hj r icxwrtfioxrjoevjnr oevrnuohrinrtch;ruhwrOrfoxjw
uxxrevjrjqfezravjtetruhwraut.trcfrohruraonaxjrnichwrevjrejhe,reirdineodz
oerdniqruhzrtcwwjhrueejqfe,rjoevjnrdniqrquhrinrpjutek

 vjhrOrvuwrwihjrevot,rOrpxia.jwrcfrevjrwiinridrevjrejher oevrtiqjrpiunwt
 oevoh,ruhwruhrjqfezravjtertjercfrihrjhwr oevice;ruhwrtfnjuwohsrihjrid
evjrpjwtrcfihrevjrsnichw,rxuzohsrqzre irfoteixtrbcteruerqzrvjuw,ruhwrqz
schruerxjhsevrpzrqj,rOr jhereirpjwrdinrevjrdontereoqj,ruhwrtxjferyjnz
lcojexzruxxrhosve,rdinrOr utryjnzr junzruhwrvjuyz;rdinrevjrhosverpjdinjrO
vuwrtxjferxoeexj,ruhwrvuwrxupicnjwryjnzrvunwruxxrwuzreirdjeavruxxrevitj
evohstrdniqrevjrtvof,ruhwreirsjerevjqrihrtvinjk

Orvuwrevjrpossjterqusugohjridruxxr.ohwtrhi revuerjyjnr utrxuowrcf,rO
pjxojyj,rdinrihjrquh:rpcerOr utrhiertueotdojwrteoxx,rdinr voxjrevjrtvof
tuercfnosverohrevuerfitecnj,rOrevicsverOricsvereirsjerjyjnzevohsricerid
vjnrevuerOraicxw;rtirjyjnzrwuzruerxi r uejnrOr jherihrpiunw,ruhwrpnicsve
u uzrtiqjevohsrinrievjn;rpcerfuneoacxunxzrevjrevonwreoqjrOr jherOrpnicsve
u uzrutrqcavridrevjrnossohsrutrOraicxw,rutruxtiruxxrevjrtquxxrnifjtruhw
nifj-e ohjrOraicxwrsje,r oevrurfojajridrtfunjrauhyut,r voavr utreirqjhw
evjrtuoxtrcfihriaautoih,ruhwrevjrpunnjxridr jerschfi wjnkrrOhrur inw,rO
pnicsveru uzruxxrevjrtuoxt,rdonteruhwrxute;rihxzrevuerOr utrduohreirace
evjqrohrfojajt,ruhwrpnohsrutrqcavruerureoqjrutrOraicxw,rdinrevjzr jnjrhi
qinjrctjdcxreirpjrtuoxt,rpcerutrqjnjrauhyutrihxzk

Pcerevuer voavraiqdinejwrqjrqinjrteoxx,r ut,revuerxuteridruxx,rudejnrO
vuwrquwjrdoyjrinrtomrtcavryizusjtrutrevjtj,ruhwrevicsverOrvuwrhievohs
qinjreirjmfjaerdniqrevjrtvofrevuer utr inevrqzrqjwwxohsr oev—Ortuz,rudejn
uxxrevot,rOrdichwrursnjuervistvjuwridrpnjuw,revnjjrxunsjrnchxjetridrncq,
inrtfonoet,rurpimridrtcsun,ruhwrurpunnjxridrdohjrdxicn;revotr ut
tcnfnotohsreirqj,rpjauctjrOrvuwrsoyjhriyjnrjmfjaeohsruhzrqinjrfniyotoiht,
jmajfer vuer utrtfioxjwrpzrevjr uejnkrrOrtiihrjqfeojwrevjrvistvjuwridrevj
pnjuw,ruhwr nuffjwroercf,rfunajxrpzrfunajx,rohrfojajtridrevjrtuoxt,r voav
Oracerice;ruhw,rohrur inw,rOrsieruxxrevotrtudjrihrtvinjruxtik

EvjrhjmerwuzrOrquwjruhievjnryizusj,ruhwrhi ,rvuyohsrfxchwjnjwrevjrtvofrid
 vuer utrfineupxjruhwrdoereirvuhwrice,rOrpjsuhr oevrevjraupxjtkrrAceeohs
evjrsnjueraupxjroheirfojajt,rtcavrutrOraicxwrqiyj,rOrsiere iraupxjtruhwru
vu tjnrihrtvinj,r oevruxxrevjronih in.rOraicxwrsje;ruhwrvuyohsracerwi h
evjrtfnoetuox-zunw,ruhwrevjrqoggjh-zunw,ruhwrjyjnzevohsrOraicxw,reirqu.j
urxunsjrnude,rOrxiuwjwroer oevruxxrevjtjrvjuyzrsiiwt,ruhwrauqjru uzkrrPce
qzrsiiwrxca.rpjsuhrhi reirxjuyjrqj;rdinrevotrnuder utrtirch ojxwz,ruhwrti
iyjnxuwjh,revue,rudejnrOrvuwrjhejnjwrevjrxoeexjraiyjr vjnjrOrvuwrxuhwjw
evjrnjteridrqzrsiiwt,rhierpjohsrupxjreirscowjroertirvuhwoxzrutrOrwowrevj
ievjn,roeriyjntje,ruhwrevnj rqjruhwruxxrqzraunsiroheirevjr uejnkrrUtrdin
qztjxd,roer utrhirsnjuervunq,rdinrOr utrhjunrevjrtvinj;rpcerutreirqz
aunsi,roer utrursnjuerfuneridroerxite,rjtfjaouxxzrevjronih,r voavrO
jmfjaejwr icxwrvuyjrpjjhridrsnjuerctjreirqj;rvi jyjn,r vjhrevjreowjr ut
ice,rOrsierqiteridrevjrfojajtridrevjraupxjrutvinj,ruhwrtiqjridrevjronih,
evicsvr oevrohdohoejrxupicn;rdinrOr utrduohreirwofrdinroeroheirevjr uejn,
ur in.r voavrdueoscjwrqjryjnzrqcavkrrUdejnrevot,rOr jherjyjnzrwuzrih
piunw,ruhwrpnicsveru uzr vuerOraicxwrsjek

Orvuwrpjjhrhi revonejjhrwuztrihrtvinj,ruhwrvuwrpjjhrjxjyjhreoqjtrihrpiunw
evjrtvof,rohr voavreoqjrOrvuwrpnicsveru uzruxxrevuerihjrfuonridrvuhwt
aicxwr jxxrpjrtcffitjwraufupxjreirpnohs;revicsvrOrpjxojyjryjnoxz,rvuwrevj
auxqr juevjnrvjxw,rOrtvicxwrvuyjrpnicsveru uzrevjr vixjrtvof,rfojajrpz
fojajkrrPcerfnjfunohsrevjre jxdevreoqjreirsirihrpiunw,rOrdichwrevjr ohw
pjsuhreirnotj:rvi jyjn,ruerxi r uejnrOr jherihrpiunw,ruhwrevicsvrO
evicsverOrvuwrncqqusjwrevjraupohrtirjddjaecuxxzrevuerhievohsrqinjraicxw
pjrdichw,rzjerOrwotaiyjnjwrurxia.jnr oevrwnu jntrohroe,rohrihjridr voavrO
dichwre irinrevnjjrnugint,ruhwrihjrfuonridrxunsjrtaottint,r oevrtiqjrejh
inrurwigjhridrsiiwr.hoyjtruhwrdin.t:rohruhievjnrOrdichwrupicerevonez-tom
fichwtryuxcjrohrqihjz—tiqjrJcnifjuhraioh,rtiqjrPnugox,rtiqjrfojajtrid
josve,rtiqjrsixw,ruhwrtiqjrtoxyjnk

Ortqoxjwreirqztjxdruerevjrtosveridrevotrqihjz:r“Irwncs!”rtuowrO,ruxicw,
“ vuerunerevicrsiiwrdin?rrEvicrunerhier inevreirqj—hi,rhierevjreu.ohsridd
evjrsnichw;rihjridrevitjr.hoyjtrotr inevruxxrevotrvjuf;rOrvuyjrhirquhhjn
idrctjrdinrevjj—j’jhrnjquohr vjnjrevicrune,ruhwrsireirevjrpieeiqrutru
anjuecnjr vitjrxodjrotrhier inevrtuzohsk”rrVi jyjn,rcfihrtjaihwrevicsvet
Oreii.roeru uz;ruhwr nuffohsruxxrevotrohrurfojajridrauhyut,rOrpjsuhrei
evoh.ridrqu.ohsruhievjnrnude;rpcer voxjrOr utrfnjfunohsrevot,rOrdichwrevj
t.zriyjnaute,ruhwrevjr ohwrpjsuhreirnotj,ruhwrohrurlcunejnridruhrvicnroe
pxj rurdnjtvrsuxjrdniqrevjrtvinjkrrOerfnjtjhexzriaacnnjwreirqjrevueroe
 utrohryuohreirfnjejhwreirqu.jrurnuder oevrevjr ohwriddtvinj;ruhwrevueroe
 utrqzrpctohjttreirpjrsihjrpjdinjrevjreowjridrdxiiwrpjsuh,rievjn otjrO
qosverhierpjrupxjreirnjuavrevjrtvinjrueruxxkrrUaainwohsxz,rOrxjerqztjxd
wi hroheirevjr uejn,ruhwrt uqruanittrevjravuhhjx,r voavrxuzrpje jjhrevj
tvofruhwrevjrtuhwt,ruhwrjyjhrevuer oevrwoddoacxezrjhicsv,rfunexzr oevrevj
 josveridrevjrevohstrOrvuwrupicerqj,ruhwrfunexzrevjrnicsvhjttridrevj
 uejn;rdinrevjr ohwrnitjryjnzrvuteoxz,ruhwrpjdinjroer utrlcoejrvosvr uejn
oerpxj rurteinqk

PcerOrvuwrsierviqjreirqzrxoeexjrejhe,r vjnjrOrxuz,r oevruxxrqzr juxev
upicerqj,ryjnzrtjacnjkrrOerpxj ryjnzrvunwruxxrhosve,ruhwrohrevjrqinhohs,
 vjhrOrxii.jwrice,rpjvixw,rhirqinjrtvofr utreirpjrtjjh!rrOr utrurxoeexj
tcnfnotjw,rpcernjaiyjnjwrqztjxdr oevrevjrtueotduaeinzrnjdxjaeoihrevuerO
vuwrxiterhireoqj,rhinrupuejwruhzrwoxosjhaj,reirsjerjyjnzevohsriceridrvjn
evueraicxwrpjrctjdcxreirqj;ruhwrevue,rohwjjw,revjnjr utrxoeexjrxjderoh
vjnrevuerOr utrupxjreirpnohsru uz,rodrOrvuwrvuwrqinjreoqjk

Orhi rsuyjriyjnruhzrqinjrevicsvetridrevjrtvof,rinridruhzevohsriceridrvjn,
jmajfer vuerqosverwnoyjrihrtvinjrdniqrvjnr nja.;rut,rohwjjw,rwoyjnt
fojajtridrvjnrudejn unwtrwow;rpcerevitjrevohstr jnjridrtquxxrctjreirqjk

Qzrevicsvetr jnjrhi r vixxzrjqfxizjwrupicertjacnohsrqztjxdrusuohterjoevjn
tuyusjt,rodruhzrtvicxwruffjun,rinr oxwrpjutet,rodruhzr jnjrohrevjrotxuhw;
uhwrOrvuwrquhzrevicsvetridrevjrqjeviwrvi reirwirevot,ruhwr vuer.ohwrid
w jxxohsreirqu.j— vjevjnrOrtvicxwrqu.jrqjrurauyjrohrevjrjunev,rinrurejhe
cfihrevjrjunev;ruhw,rohrtvine,rOrnjtixyjwrcfihrpiev;revjrquhhjnruhw
wjtanofeoihridr voav,roerquzrhierpjroqfnifjnreirsoyjruhruaaicheridk

OrtiihrdichwrevjrfxuajrOr utrohr utrhierdoerdinrqzrtjeexjqjhe,rpjauctjroe
 utrcfihrurxi ,rqiinotvrsnichw,rhjunrevjrtju,ruhwrOrpjxojyjwroer icxwrhie
pjr vixjtiqj,ruhwrqinjrfuneoacxunxzrpjauctjrevjnjr utrhirdnjtvr uejnrhjun
oe;rtirOrnjtixyjwreirdohwrurqinjrvjuxevzruhwrqinjraihyjhojhertfierid
snichwk

Oraihtcxejwrtjyjnuxrevohstrohrqzrtoecueoih,r voavrOrdichwr icxwrpjrfnifjn
dinrqj:r1te,rvjuxevruhwrdnjtvr uejn,rOrbcterhi rqjheoihjw;r2hwxz,rtvjxejn
dniqrevjrvjueridrevjrtch;r3nwxz,rtjacnoezrdniqrnuyjhictranjuecnjt,
 vjevjnrquhrinrpjute;r4evxz,ruryoj reirevjrtju,revuerodrSiwrtjheruhzrtvof
ohrtosve,rOrqosverhierxitjruhzruwyuheusjrdinrqzrwjxoyjnuhaj,ridr voavrO
 utrhier oxxohsreirpuhotvruxxrqzrjmfjaeueoihrzjek

Ohrtjunavridrurfxuajrfnifjnrdinrevot,rOrdichwrurxoeexjrfxuohrihrevjrtowj
idrurnotohsrvoxx,r vitjrdniherei unwtrevotrxoeexjrfxuohr utrtejjfrutru
victj-towj,rtirevuerhievohsraicxwraiqjrwi hrcfihrqjrdniqrevjreifkrrIhrevj
ihjrtowjridrevjrnia.revjnjr utrurvixxi rfxuaj,r inhrurxoeexjr uzroh,rxo.j
evjrjhenuhajrinrwiinridrurauyjrpcerevjnjr utrhiernjuxxzruhzrauyjrinr uz
oheirevjrnia.rueruxxk

Ihrevjrdxueridrevjrsnjjh,rbcterpjdinjrevotrvixxi rfxuaj,rOrnjtixyjwrei
foeavrqzrejhekrrEvotrfxuohr utrhierupiyjrurvchwnjwrzunwtrpniuw,ruhwrupice
e oajrutrxihs,ruhwrxuzrxo.jrursnjjhrpjdinjrqzrwiin;ruhw,ruerevjrjhwrid
oe,rwjtajhwjwronnjscxunxzrjyjnzr uzrwi hroheirevjrxi rsnichwrpzrevj
tjutowjkrrOer utrihrevjrHkHk krtowjridrevjrvoxx;rtirevueroer utrtvjxejnjw
dniqrevjrvjuerjyjnzrwuz,reoxxroerauqjreirur kruhwrpzrTkrtch,rin
evjnjupicet,r voav,rohrevitjraichenojt,rotrhjunrevjrtjeeohsk

PjdinjrOrtjercfrqzrejherOrwnj rurvuxd-aonaxjrpjdinjrevjrvixxi rfxuaj,
 voavreii.rohrupicerejhrzunwtrohroetrtjqo-wouqjejnrdniqrevjrnia.,ruhw
e jhezrzunwtrohroetrwouqjejnrdniqroetrpjsohhohsruhwrjhwohsk

Ohrevotrvuxd-aonaxjrOrfoeavjwre irni tridrtenihsrteu.jt,rwnoyohsrevjq
oheirevjrsnichwreoxxrevjzrteiiwryjnzrdonqrxo.jrfoxjt,revjrpossjterjhw
pjohsriceridrevjrsnichwrupiyjrdoyjrdjjeruhwrurvuxd,ruhwrtvunfjhjwrihrevj
eifkrrEvjre irni trwowrhierteuhwrupiyjrtomrohavjtrdniqrihjruhievjnk

EvjhrOreii.revjrfojajtridraupxjr voavrOrvuwracerohrevjrtvof,ruhwrxuow
evjqrohrni t,rihjrcfihruhievjn,r oevohrevjraonaxj,rpje jjhrevjtjre irni t
idrteu.jt,rcfreirevjreif,rfxuaohsrievjnrteu.jtrohrevjrohtowj,rxjuhohs
usuohterevjq,rupicere irdjjeruhwrurvuxdrvosv,rxo.jrurtfcnreirurfite;ruhw
evotrdjhajr utrtirtenihs,revuerhjoevjnrquhrhinrpjuteraicxwrsjeroheiroerin
iyjnroekrrEvotraiterqjrursnjuerwjuxridreoqjruhwrxupicn,rjtfjaouxxzreirace
evjrfoxjtrohrevjr iiwt,rpnohsrevjqreirevjrfxuaj,ruhwrwnoyjrevjqroheirevj
junevk

EvjrjhenuhajroheirevotrfxuajrOrquwjreirpj,rhierpzrurwiin,rpcerpzrurtvine
xuwwjnreirsiriyjnrevjreif;r voavrxuwwjn,r vjhrOr utroh,rOrxodejwriyjn
udejnrqj;ruhwrtirOr utraiqfxjejxzrdjhajwrohruhwrdineodojw,rutrOrevicsve,
dniqruxxrevjr inxw,ruhwraihtjlcjhexzrtxjfertjacnjrohrevjrhosve,r voav
ievjn otjrOraicxwrhiervuyjrwihj;revicsv,rutroeruffjunjwrudejn unwt,revjnj
 utrhirhjjwridruxxrevotrauceoihrdniqrevjrjhjqojtrevuerOruffnjvjhwjw
wuhsjnrdniqk

Oheirevotrdjhajrinrdinenjtt,r oevrohdohoejrxupicn,rOraunnojwruxxrqz
noavjt,ruxxrqzrfniyotoiht,ruqqchoeoih,ruhwrteinjt,ridr voavrzicrvuyjrevj
uaaicherupiyj;ruhwrOrquwjrurxunsjrejhe,r voavreirfnjtjnyjrqjrdniqrevj
nuohtrevuerohrihjrfuneridrevjrzjunrunjryjnzryoixjherevjnj,rOrquwj
wicpxj—ihjrtquxxjnrejher oevoh,ruhwrihjrxunsjnrejherupiyjroe;ruhwraiyjnjw
evjrcffjnqiter oevrurxunsjreunfucxoh,r voavrOrvuwrtuyjwruqihsrevjrtuoxtk

Uhwrhi rOrxuzrhirqinjrdinrur voxjrohrevjrpjwr voavrOrvuwrpnicsverih
tvinj,rpcerohrurvuqqia.,r voavr utrohwjjwruryjnzrsiiwrihj,ruhwrpjxihsjw
eirevjrquejridrevjrtvofk

OheirevotrejherOrpnicsveruxxrqzrfniyotoiht,ruhwrjyjnzevohsrevuer icxw
tfioxrpzrevjr je;ruhwrvuyohsrevctrjhaxitjwruxxrqzrsiiwt,rOrquwjrcfrevj
jhenuhaj,r voavreoxxrhi rOrvuwrxjderifjh,ruhwrtirfuttjwruhwrnjfuttjw,rut
Ortuow,rpzrurtvinerxuwwjnk

 vjhrOrvuwrwihjrevot,rOrpjsuhreir in.rqzr uzroheirevjrnia.,ruhwrpnohsohs
uxxrevjrjunevruhwrteihjtrevuerOrwcsrwi hricerevnicsvrqzrejhe,rOrxuowrevjq
cfr oevohrqzrdjhaj,rohrevjrhuecnjridrurejnnuaj,rtirevueroernuotjwrevj
snichwr oevohrupicerurdiieruhwrurvuxd;ruhwrevctrOrquwjrqjrurauyj,rbcte
pjvohwrqzrejhe,r voavrtjnyjwrqjrxo.jrurajxxunreirqzrvictjk

Oeraiterqjrqcavrxupicnruhwrquhzrwuztrpjdinjruxxrevjtjrevohstr jnjrpnicsve
eirfjndjaeoih;ruhwrevjnjdinjrOrqctersirpua.reirtiqjrievjnrevohstr voav
eii.rcfrtiqjridrqzrevicsvetkrrUerevjrtuqjreoqjroervuffjhjw,rudejnrOrvuw
xuowrqzrtavjqjrdinrevjrtjeeohsrcfrqzrejhe,ruhwrqu.ohsrevjrauyj,revueru
teinqridrnuohrduxxohsrdniqrurevoa.,rwun.raxicw,rurtcwwjhrdxutvrid
xosvehohsrvuffjhjw,ruhwrudejnrevuerursnjueraxufridrevchwjn,rutrot
huecnuxxzrevjrjddjaeridroekrrOr utrhiertirqcavrtcnfnotjwr oevrevj
xosvehohsrutrOr utr oevrevjrevicsver voavrwunejwroheirqzrqohwrutrt oderut
evjrxosvehohsroetjxd—Iv,rqzrfi wjn!rrQzryjnzrvjunertuh.r oevohrqjr vjhrO
evicsverevue,ruerihjrpxute,ruxxrqzrfi wjnrqosverpjrwjtenizjw;rihr voav,
hierqzrwjdjhajrihxz,rpcerevjrfniyowohsrqzrdiiw,rutrOrevicsve,rjheonjxz
wjfjhwjwkrrOr utrhievohsrhjunrtiruhmoictrupicerqzri hrwuhsjn,revicsv,rvuw
evjrfi wjnreii.rdonj,rOrtvicxwrhjyjnrvuyjr.hi hr virvuwrvcnerqjk

Tcavroqfnjttoihrwowrevotrqu.jrcfihrqj,revuerudejnrevjrteinqr utriyjnrO
xuowrutowjruxxrqzr in.t,rqzrpcoxwohsruhwrdineodzohs,ruhwruffxojwrqztjxd
eirqu.jrpustruhwrpimjt,reirtjfunuejrevjrfi wjn,ruhwreir.jjfroerurxoeexj
uhwrurxoeexjrohrurfunajx,rohrevjrvifjrevue,r vuejyjnrqosveraiqj,roerqosve
hieruxxreu.jrdonjruerihaj;ruhwreir.jjfroertirufunerevueroertvicxwrhierpj
fittopxjreirqu.jrihjrfunerdonjruhievjnkrrOrdohotvjwrevotr in.rohrupiceru
dinehosve;ruhwrOrevoh.rqzrfi wjn,r voavrohruxxr utrupicere irvchwnjwruhw
dinezrfichwtr josve,r utrwoyowjwrohrhierxjttrevuhrurvchwnjwrfunajxtkrrUt
eirevjrpunnjxrevuervuwrpjjhr je,rOrwowrhieruffnjvjhwruhzrwuhsjnrdniq
evue;rtirOrfxuajwroerohrqzrhj rauyj,r voav,rohrqzrduhaz,rOrauxxjwrqz
.oeavjh;ruhwrevjrnjterOrvowrcfruhwrwi hrohrvixjtruqihsrevjrnia.t,rtirevue
hir jerqosveraiqjreiroe,rqun.ohsryjnzraunjdcxxzr vjnjrOrxuowroek

Ohrevjrohejnyuxridreoqjr voxjrevotr utrwiohs,rOr jhericerihajruerxjute
jyjnzrwuzr oevrqzrsch,rutr jxxreirwoyjnerqztjxdrutreirtjjrodrOraicxwr.oxx
uhzevohsrdoerdinrdiiw;ruhw,rutrhjunrutrOraicxw,reirualcuoherqztjxdr oev
 vuerevjrotxuhwrfniwcajwkrrEvjrdontereoqjrOr jherice,rOrfnjtjhexz
wotaiyjnjwrevuerevjnjr jnjrsiuetrohrevjrotxuhw,r voavr utrursnjue
tueotduaeoihreirqj;rpcerevjhroer utrueejhwjwr oevrevotrqotdinechjrei
qj—yogkrevuerevjzr jnjrtirtvz,rtirtcpexj,ruhwrtirt oderidrdiie,revueroe
 utrevjrqiterwoddoacxerevohsrohrevjr inxwreiraiqjruerevjq;rpcerOr utrhie
wotaicnusjwruerevot,rhierwicpeohsrpcerOrqosverhi ruhwrevjhrtviierihj,rut
oertiihrvuffjhjw;rdinrudejnrOrvuwrdichwrevjonrvuchetrurxoeexj,rOrxuow
 uoerohrevotrquhhjnrdinrevjq:rOriptjnyjwrodrevjzrtu rqjrohrevjryuxxjzt,
evicsvrevjzr jnjrcfihrevjrnia.t,revjzr icxwrnchru uz,rutrohrurejnnopxj
dnosve;rpcerodrevjzr jnjrdjjwohsrohrevjryuxxjzt,ruhwrOr utrcfihrevj
nia.t,revjzreii.rhirhieoajridrqj;rdniqr vjhajrOraihaxcwjwrevue,rpzrevj
fitoeoihridrevjonrifeoat,revjonrtosver utrtirwonjaejwrwi h unwrevuerevjz
wowrhiernjuwoxzrtjjripbjaetrevuer jnjrupiyjrevjq;rtirudejn unwtrOreii.
evotrqjeviw—Orux uztraxoqpjwrevjrnia.trdonte,reirsjerupiyjrevjq,ruhwrevjh
vuwrdnjlcjhexzrurduonrqun.k

EvjrdontertvierOrquwjruqihsrevjtjranjuecnjt,rOr.oxxjwrurtvj-siue,r voav
vuwrurxoeexjr.owrpzrvjn,r voavrtvjrsuyjrtca.rei,r voavrsnojyjwrqj
vjuneoxz;rdinr vjhrevjrixwrihjrdjxx,revjr.owrteiiwrteia.rteoxxrpzrvjn,
eoxxrOrauqjruhwreii.rvjnrcf;ruhwrhierihxzrti,rpcer vjhrOraunnojwrevjrixw
ihjr oevrqj,rcfihrqzrtvicxwjnt,revjr.owrdixxi jwrqjrlcoejreirqz
jhaxitcnj;rcfihr voavrOrxuowrwi hrevjrwuq,ruhwreii.revjr.owrohrqzrunqt,
uhwraunnojwroeriyjnrqzrfuxj,rohrvifjtreirvuyjrpnjwroercfreuqj;rpceroe
 icxwrhierjue;rtirOr utrdinajwreir.oxxroeruhwrjueroerqztjxdkrrEvjtjre i
tcffxojwrqjr oevrdxjtvrursnjuer voxj,rdinrOruejrtfunohsxz,ruhwrtuyjwrqz
fniyotoiht,rqzrpnjuwrjtfjaouxxz,rutrqcavrutrfittopxzrOraicxwk

Vuyohsrhi rdomjwrqzrvupoeueoih,rOrdichwroeruptixcejxzrhjajttunzrei
fniyowjrurfxuajreirqu.jrurdonjroh,ruhwrdcjxreirpcnh:ruhwr vuerOrwowrdin
evue,ruhwruxtirvi rOrjhxunsjwrqzrauyj,ruhwr vueraihyjhojhajtrOrquwj,rO
tvuxxrsoyjrurdcxxruaaicheridrohroetrfxuaj;rpcerOrqcterhi rsoyjrtiqj
xoeexjruaaicheridrqztjxd,ruhwridrqzrevicsvetrupicerxoyohs,r voav,roerquz
 jxxrpjrtcffitjw,r jnjrhierurdj k

Orvuwrurwotquxrfnitfjaeridrqzraihwoeoih;rdinrutrOr utrhierauteru uzrcfih
evuerotxuhwr oevicerpjohsrwnoyjh,rutrotrtuow,rpzruryoixjherteinq,rlcoej
iceridrevjraicntjridricnrohejhwjwryizusj,ruhwrursnjuer uz,ryogkrtiqj
vchwnjwtridrxjuscjt,riceridrevjrinwohunzraicntjridrevjrenuwjridrquh.ohw,
OrvuwrsnjuernjutihreiraihtowjnroerutrurwjejnqohueoihridrVjuyjh,revueroh
evotrwjtixuejrfxuaj,ruhwrohrevotrwjtixuejrquhhjn,rOrtvicxwrjhwrqzrxodjk
Evjrejuntr icxwrnchrfxjheodcxxzrwi hrqzrduajr vjhrOrquwjrevjtj
njdxjaeoiht;ruhwrtiqjeoqjtrOr icxwrjmfitecxuejr oevrqztjxdr vzrFniyowjhaj
tvicxwrevctraiqfxjejxzrncohrVotranjuecnjt,ruhwrnjhwjnrevjqrtiruptixcejxz
qotjnupxj;rtir oevicervjxf,rupuhwihjw,rtirjheonjxzrwjfnjttjw,revueroe
aicxwrvunwxzrpjrnueoihuxreirpjrevuh.dcxrdinrtcavrurxodjk

Pcertiqjevohsrux uztrnjecnhjwrt odercfihrqjreiravja.revjtjrevicsvet,ruhw
eirnjfniyjrqj;ruhwrfuneoacxunxzrihjrwuz,r ux.ohsr oevrqzrschrohrqzrvuhw
pzrevjrtjutowj,rOr utryjnzrfjhtoyjrcfihrevjrtcpbjaeridrqzrfnjtjhe
aihwoeoih,r vjhrnjutih,rutroer jnj,rjmfitecxuejwr oevrqjrevjrievjnr uz,
evct:r“ jxx,rzicrunjrohrurwjtixuejraihwoeoih,roerotrencj;rpce,rfnuz
njqjqpjn,r vjnjrunjrevjrnjteridrzic?rrWowrhierzicraiqj,rjxjyjhridrzicroh
evjrpiue?rr vjnjrunjrevjrejh?rr vzr jnjrevjzrhiertuyjw,ruhwrzicrxite?
 vzr jnjrzicrtohsxjwrice?rrOtroerpjeejnreirpjrvjnjrinrevjnj?”rrUhwrevjhrO
fiohejwreirevjrtjukrrUxxrjyoxtrunjreirpjraihtowjnjwr oevrevjrsiiwrevuerot
ohrevjq,ruhwr oevr vuer intjrueejhwtrevjqk

Evjhroeriaacnnjwreirqjrusuoh,rvi r jxxrOr utrdcnhotvjwrdinrqz
tcptotejhaj,ruhwr vuer icxwrvuyjrpjjhrqzrautjrodroervuwrhiervuffjhjw
( voavr utrurvchwnjwrevictuhwreirihj)revuerevjrtvofrdxiuejwrdniqrevj
fxuajr vjnjrtvjrdontertenca.,ruhwr utrwnoyjhrtirhjunreirevjrtvinjrevuerO
vuwreoqjreirsjeruxxrevjtjrevohstriceridrvjn;r vuer icxwrvuyjrpjjhrqz
autj,rodrOrvuwrpjjhrdinajwreirvuyjrxoyjwrohrevjraihwoeoihrohr voavrOrue
donterauqjrihrtvinj,r oevicerhjajttunojtridrxodj,rinrhjajttunojtrei
tcffxzruhwrfniacnjrevjq?rr“Funeoacxunxz,”rtuowrO,ruxicwr(evicsvrei
qztjxd),r“ vuertvicxwrOrvuyjrwihjr oevicerursch,r oeviceruqqchoeoih,
 oeviceruhzreiixtreirqu.jruhzevohs,rinreir in.r oev,r oeviceraxievjt,
pjwwohs,rurejhe,rinruhzrquhhjnridraiyjnohs?”ruhwrevuerhi rOrvuwruxxrevjtj
eirtcddoaojherlcuheoez,ruhwr utrohrurduonr uzreirfniyowjrqztjxdrohrtcavru
quhhjnrutreirxoyjr oevicerqzrsch,r vjhrqzruqqchoeoihr utrtfjhe:rtirevuerO
vuwrureixjnupxjryoj ridrtcptoteohs,r oeviceruhzr uhe,rutrxihsrutrOrxoyjw;
dinrOraihtowjnjwrdniqrevjrpjsohhohsrvi rOr icxwrfniyowjrdinrevjruaaowjhet
evuerqosvervuffjh,ruhwrdinrevjreoqjrevuer utreiraiqj,rjyjhrhierihxzrudejn
qzruqqchoeoihrtvicxwrpjrtfjhe,rpcerjyjhrudejnrqzrvjuxevruhwrtenjhsev
tvicxwrwjauzk

OraihdjttrOrvuwrhierjhejneuohjwruhzrhieoihridrqzruqqchoeoihrpjohs
wjtenizjwruerihjrpxute—Orqjuhrqzrfi wjnrpjohsrpxi hrcfrpzrxosvehohs;ruhw
evotrquwjrevjrevicsvetridroertirtcnfnotohsreirqj,r vjhroerxosvejhjwruhw
evchwjnjw,rutrOriptjnyjwrbcterhi k

Uhwrhi rpjohsrupicereirjhejnroheirurqjxuhavixzrnjxueoihridrurtajhjrid
toxjherxodj,rtcav,rfjnvuft,rutr utrhjyjnrvjunwridrohrevjr inxwrpjdinj,rO
tvuxxreu.jroerdniqroetrpjsohhohs,ruhwraiheohcjroerohroetrinwjnkrrOer ut
pzrqzruaaicherevjr30evridrTjfejqpjn,r vjh,rohrevjrquhhjnrutrupiyjrtuow,rO
dontertjerdiiercfihrevotrvinnowrotxuhw;r vjhrevjrtch,rpjohsreirctrohroet
ucecqhuxrjlcohim,r utruxqiteriyjnrqzrvjuw;rdinrOrnja.ihjwrqztjxd,rpz
iptjnyueoih,reirpjrohrevjrxueoecwjridrhohjrwjsnjjtre jhez-e irqohcejt
hinevridrevjrxohjk

UdejnrOrvuwrpjjhrevjnjrupicerejhrinre jxyjrwuzt,roerauqjroheirqzrevicsvet
evuerOrtvicxwrxitjrqzrnja.ihohsridreoqjrdinr uheridrpii.t,ruhwrfjhruhw
oh.,ruhwrtvicxwrjyjhrdinsjerevjrTuppuevrwuzt;rpcereirfnjyjherevot,rOrace
 oevrqzr.hodjrcfihrurxunsjrfite,rohraufoeuxrxjeejnt—uhwrqu.ohsroeroheiru
snjueranitt,rOrtjeroercfrihrevjrtvinjr vjnjrOrdonterxuhwjw—“Orauqjrih
tvinjrvjnjrihrevjr30evrTjfejqpjnr1659k”

CfihrevjrtowjtridrevotrtlcunjrfiterOracerjyjnzrwuzrurhieavr oevrqzr.hodj,
uhwrjyjnzrtjyjhevrhieavr utrutrxihsrusuohrutrevjrnjte,ruhwrjyjnzrdonte
wuzridrevjrqihevrutrxihsrusuohrutrevuerxihsrihj;ruhwrevctrOr.jferqz
auxjhwun,rinr jj.xz,rqihevxz,ruhwrzjunxzrnja.ihohsridreoqjk

Ohrevjrhjmerfxuaj,r jrunjreiriptjnyjrevueruqihsrevjrquhzrevohstr voavrO
pnicsvericeridrevjrtvof,rohrevjrtjyjnuxryizusjtr voav,rutrupiyj
qjheoihjw,rOrquwjreiroe,rOrsiertjyjnuxrevohstridrxjttryuxcj,rpcerhierue
uxxrxjttrctjdcxreirqj,r voavrOriqoeejwrtjeeohsrwi hrpjdinj;rut,roh
funeoacxun,rfjht,roh.,ruhwrfufjn,rtjyjnuxrfunajxtrohrevjraufeuoh’t,
quej’t,rschhjn’truhwraunfjhejn’tr.jjfohs;revnjjrinrdicnraiqfuttjt,rtiqj
quevjqueoauxrohtencqjhet,rwouxt,rfjntfjaeoyjt,ravunet,ruhwrpii.trid
huyosueoih,ruxxr voavrOrvcwwxjwreisjevjn,r vjevjnrOrqosver uherevjqrin
hi;ruxti,rOrdichwrevnjjryjnzrsiiwrPopxjt,r voavrauqjreirqjrohrqzraunsi
dniqrJhsxuhw,ruhwr voavrOrvuwrfua.jwrcfruqihsrqzrevohst;rtiqjrFinecscjtj
pii.truxti;ruhwruqihsrevjqre irinrevnjjrFifotvrfnuzjn-pii.t,ruhwrtjyjnux
ievjnrpii.t,ruxxr voavrOraunjdcxxzrtjacnjwkrrUhwrOrqcterhierdinsjerevue
 jrvuwrohrevjrtvofrurwisruhwre irauet,ridr vitjrjqohjhervoteinzrOrquz
vuyjriaautoihreirtuzrtiqjevohsrohroetrfxuaj;rdinrOraunnojwrpievrevjrauet
 oevrqj;ruhwrutrdinrevjrwis,rvjrbcqfjwriceridrevjrtvofridrvoqtjxd,ruhw
t uqrihrtvinjreirqjrevjrwuzrudejnrOr jherihrtvinjr oevrqzrdonteraunsi,
uhwr utrurenctezrtjnyuhereirqjrquhzrzjunt;rOr uhejwrhievohsrevuervjraicxw
djeavrqj,rhinruhzraiqfuhzrevuervjraicxwrqu.jrcfreirqj;rOrihxzr uhejwrei
vuyjrvoqreux.reirqj,rpcerevuer icxwrhierwikrrUtrOriptjnyjwrpjdinj,rO
dichwrfjht,roh.,ruhwrfufjn,ruhwrOrvctpuhwjwrevjqreirevjrceqite;ruhwrO
tvuxxrtvi revuer voxjrqzroh.rxutejw,rOr.jferevohstryjnzrjmuae,rpcerudejn
evuer utrsihjrOraicxwrhie,rdinrOraicxwrhierqu.jruhzroh.rpzruhzrqjuhtrevue
Oraicxwrwjyotjk

UhwrevotrfcerqjrohrqohwrevuerOr uhejwrquhzrevohstrhie oevteuhwohsruxx
evuerOrvuwruquttjwreisjevjn;ruhwridrevjtj,roh.r utrihj;rutruxtirurtfuwj,
foa.umj,ruhwrtviyjx,reirwosrinrnjqiyjrevjrjunev;rhjjwxjt,rfoht,ruhw
evnjuw;rutrdinrxohjh,rOrtiihrxjunhjwreir uherevuer oevicerqcav
woddoacxezk

Evotr uheridreiixtrquwjrjyjnzr in.rOrwowrsirihrvjuyoxz;ruhwroer utrhjunru
 vixjrzjunrpjdinjrOrvuwrjheonjxzrdohotvjwrqzrxoeexjrfuxj,rinrtcnnichwjw
qzrvupoeueoihkrrEvjrfoxjt,rinrteu.jt,r voavr jnjrutrvjuyzrutrOraicxwr jxx
xode,r jnjrurxihsreoqjrohraceeohsruhwrfnjfunohsrohrevjr iiwt,ruhwrqinj,
pzrdun,rohrpnohsohsrviqj;rtirevuerOrtfjhertiqjeoqjtre irwuztrohraceeohs
uhwrpnohsohsrviqjrihjridrevitjrfitet,ruhwrurevonwrwuzrohrwnoyohsroerohei
evjrsnichw;rdinr voavrfcnfitjrOrsierurvjuyzrfojajridr iiwruerdonte,rpce
uerxuterpjevicsverqztjxdridrihjridrevjronihrani t;r voav,rvi jyjn,revicsv
Ordichwroe,rquwjrwnoyohsrevitjrfitetrinrfoxjtryjnzrxupinoictruhwrejwoict
 in.k

Pcer vuerhjjwrOrvuyjrpjjhraihajnhjwruerevjrejwoicthjttridruhzevohs
Orvuwreirwi,rtjjohsrOrvuwreoqjrjhicsvreirwiroeroh?rhinrvuwrOruhzrievjn
jqfxizqjhe,rodrevuervuwrpjjhriyjn,ruerxjuterevuerOraicxwrdinjtjj,rjmajfe
evjrnuhsohsrevjrotxuhwreirtjj.rdinrdiiw,r voavrOrwow,rqinjrinrxjtt,rjyjnz
wuzk

Orhi rpjsuhreiraihtowjnrtjnoictxzrqzraihwoeoih,ruhwrevjraonacqteuhajtrO
 utrnjwcajwrei;ruhwrOrwnj rcfrevjrteuejridrqzrudduontrohr noeohs,rhierti
qcavreirxjuyjrevjqreiruhzrevuer jnjreiraiqjrudejnrqj—dinrOr utrxo.jxzrei
vuyjrpcerdj rvjont—utreirwjxoyjnrqzrevicsvetrdniqrwuoxzrfinohsriyjnrevjq,
uhwruddxoaeohsrqzrqohw;ruhwrutrqzrnjutihrpjsuhrhi reirqutejnrqz
wjtfihwjhaz,rOrpjsuhreiraiqdinerqztjxdrutr jxxrutrOraicxw,ruhwreirtjerevj
siiwrusuohterevjrjyox,revuerOrqosvervuyjrtiqjevohsreirwoteohscotvrqzrautj
dniqr intj;ruhwrOrteuejwryjnzroqfuneouxxz,rxo.jrwjpeinruhwranjwoein,revj
aiqdinetrOrjhbizjwrusuohterevjrqotjnojtrOrtcddjnjw,revct:—

rrrrrrrrrrrrr_Jyox_krrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr_Siiw_k
Oruqrautercfihrurvinnopxj,rrrrrrrrrrPcerOruqruxoyj;ruhwrhierwni hjw,
wjtixuejrotxuhw,ryiowridruxxrvifjrrrutruxxrqzrtvof’traiqfuhzr jnjk
idrnjaiyjnzk
Oruqrtohsxjwriceruhwrtjfunuejw,rrrrrPcerOruqrtohsxjwrice,reii,rdniq
utroer jnj,rdniqruxxrevjr inxw,rrrrruxxrevjrtvof’tranj ,reirpjrtfunjw
eirpjrqotjnupxjkrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrdniqrwjuev;ruhwrVjrevue
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrqonuacxictxzrtuyjwrqjrdniqrwjuev
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrauhrwjxoyjnrqjrdniqrevot
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrraihwoeoihk
Oruqrwoyowjwrdniqrquh.ohw—urrrrrrrrrPcerOruqrhierteunyjw,ruhw
tixoeuonj;rihjrpuhotvjwrdniqrrrrrrrrfjnotvohsrihrurpunnjhrfxuaj,
vcquhrtiaojezkrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrruddinwohsrhirtctejhuhajk
OrvuyjrhiraxievjtreiraiyjnrqjkrrrrrrPcerOruqrohrurvieraxoquej,r vjnj,
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrodrOrvuwraxievjt,rOraicxwrvunwxz
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr junrevjqk
Oruqr oeviceruhzrwjdjhaj,rinrrrrrrrrPcerOruqrauterihruhrotxuhwr vjnj
qjuhtreirnjtoteruhzryoixjhajridrrrrrOrtjjrhir oxwrpjutetreirvcnerqj,
quhrinrpjutekrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrutrOrtu rihrevjraiuteridrUdnoau;
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrruhwr vuerodrOrvuwrpjjh
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrtvof nja.jwrevjnj?
Orvuyjrhirticxreirtfju.reirinrrrrrrrPcerSiwr ihwjndcxxzrtjherevjrtvof
njxojyjrqjkrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrohrhjunrjhicsvreirevjrtvinj,revue
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrOrvuyjrsiericerutrquhzrhjajttunz
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrevohstrutr oxxrjoevjnrtcffxzrqz
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr uhetrinrjhupxjrqjreirtcffxz
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrqztjxd,rjyjhrutrxihsrutrOrxoyjk

Cfihrevjr vixj,rvjnjr utruhrchwicpejwrejteoqihzrevuerevjnjr utrtaunajruhz
aihwoeoihrohrevjr inxwrtirqotjnupxjrpcerevjnjr utrtiqjevohsrhjsueoyjrin
tiqjevohsrfitoeoyjreirpjrevuh.dcxrdinrohroe;ruhwrxjerevotrteuhwrutru
wonjaeoihrdniqrevjrjmfjnojhajridrevjrqiterqotjnupxjridruxxraihwoeoihtroh
evotr inxw:revuer jrquzrux uztrdohwrohroertiqjevohsreiraiqdinericntjxyjt
dniq,ruhwreirtje,rohrevjrwjtanofeoihridrsiiwruhwrjyox,rihrevjranjwoertowj
idrevjruaaichek

Vuyohsrhi rpnicsverqzrqohwrurxoeexjreirnjxotvrqzraihwoeoih,ruhwrsoyjh
iyjnrxii.ohsricereirtju,reirtjjrodrOraicxwrtfzrurtvof—Ortuz,rsoyohsriyjn
evjtjrevohst,rOrpjsuhreiruffxzrqztjxdreirunnuhsjrqzr uzridrxoyohs,ruhwrei
qu.jrevohstrutrjutzreirqjrutrOraicxwk

Orvuyjruxnjuwzrwjtanopjwrqzrvupoeueoih,r voavr utrurejherchwjnrevjrtowj
idrurnia.,rtcnnichwjwr oevrurtenihsrfuxjridrfitetruhwraupxjt:rpcerOrqosve
hi rnuevjnrauxxroerur uxx,rdinrOrnuotjwrur.ohwridr uxxrcfrusuohteroerid
ecndt,rupicere irdjjerevoa.rihrevjricetowj;ruhwrudejnrtiqjreoqjr(Orevoh.
oer utrurzjunruhwrurvuxd)rOrnuotjwrnudejntrdniqroe,rxjuhohsreirevjrnia.,
uhwrevueavjwrinraiyjnjwroer oevrpicsvtridrenjjt,ruhwrtcavrevohstrutrO
aicxwrsje,reir.jjfricerevjrnuoh;r voavrOrdichwruertiqjreoqjtridrevjrzjun
yjnzryoixjhek

Orvuyjruxnjuwzriptjnyjwrvi rOrpnicsveruxxrqzrsiiwtroheirevotrfuxj,ruhw
oheirevjrauyjr voavrOrvuwrquwjrpjvohwrqjkrrPcerOrqcteriptjnyj,reii,revue
uerdonterevotr utruraihdctjwrvjufridrsiiwt,r voav,rutrevjzrxuzrohrhi
inwjn,rtirevjzreii.rcfruxxrqzrfxuaj;rOrvuwrhirniiqreirecnhrqztjxd:rtirO
tjerqztjxdreirjhxunsjrqzrauyj,ruhwr in.rdunevjnroheirevjrjunev;rdinroe
 utrurxiitjrtuhwzrnia.,r voavrzojxwjwrjutoxzreirevjrxupicnrOrpjtei jwrih
oe:ruhwrtir vjhrOrdichwrOr utrfnjeezrtudjrutreirpjutetridrfnjz,rOr in.jw
towj uzt,reirevjrnosvervuhw,roheirevjrnia.;ruhwrevjh,recnhohsreirevj
nosverusuoh,r in.jwrlcoejrice,ruhwrquwjrqjrurwiinreiraiqjricerihrevj
icetowjridrqzrfuxjrinrdineodoaueoihkrrEvotrsuyjrqjrhierihxzrjsnjttruhw
njsnjtt,rutroer utrurpua.r uzreirqzrejheruhwreirqzrteinjvictj,rpcersuyj
qjrniiqreirteinjrqzrsiiwtk

Uhwrhi rOrpjsuhreiruffxzrqztjxdreirqu.jrtcavrhjajttunzrevohstrutrOrdichw
Orqiter uhejw,rfuneoacxunxzruravuonruhwrureupxj;rdinr oevicerevjtjrOr ut
hierupxjreirjhbizrevjrdj raiqdinetrOrvuwrohrevjr inxw;rOraicxwrhier noej
inrjue,rinrwirtjyjnuxrevohst,r oevrtirqcavrfxjutcnjr oevicerureupxj:rtirO
 jhereir in.krrUhwrvjnjrOrqcterhjjwtriptjnyj,revuerutrnjutihrotrevj
tcpteuhajruhwrinosohridrevjrquevjqueoat,rtirpzrteueohsruhwrtlcunohs
jyjnzevohsrpzrnjutih,ruhwrpzrqu.ohsrevjrqiternueoihuxrbcwsqjheridrevohst,
jyjnzrquhrquzrpj,rohreoqj,rqutejnridrjyjnzrqjavuhoarunekrrOrvuwrhjyjn
vuhwxjwrureiixrohrqzrxodj;ruhwrzje,rohreoqj,rpzrxupicn,ruffxoaueoih,ruhw
aihenoyuhaj,rOrdichwruerxuterevuerOr uhejwrhievohsrpcerOraicxwrvuyjrquwj
oe,rjtfjaouxxzrodrOrvuwrvuwreiixtkrrVi jyjn,rOrquwjrupchwuhajridrevohst,
jyjhr oevicereiixt;ruhwrtiqjr oevrhirqinjreiixtrevuhruhruwgjruhwru
vueavje,r voavrfjnvuftr jnjrhjyjnrquwjrevuer uzrpjdinj,ruhwrevuer oev
ohdohoejrxupicnkrrDinrjmuqfxj,rodrOr uhejwrurpiunw,rOrvuwrhirievjnr uz
pcereiracerwi hrurenjj,rtjeroerihruhrjwsjrpjdinjrqj,ruhwrvj roerdxuerih
joevjnrtowjr oevrqzrumj,reoxxrOrpnicsveroereirpjrevohrutrurfxuh.,ruhw
evjhrwcproertqiievr oevrqzruwgjkrrOerotrencj,rpzrevotrqjeviwrOraicxwrqu.j
pcerihjrpiunwriceridrur vixjrenjj;rpcerevotrOrvuwrhirnjqjwzrdinrpce
fueojhaj,ruhzrqinjrevuhrOrvuwrdinrevjrfniwosoictrwjuxridreoqjruhwrxupicn
 voavroereii.rqjrcfreirqu.jrurfxuh.rinrpiunw:rpcerqzreoqjrinrxupicnr ut
xoeexjr inev,ruhwrtiroer utrutr jxxrjqfxizjwrihjr uzrutruhievjnk

Vi jyjn,rOrquwjrqjrureupxjruhwruravuon,rutrOriptjnyjwrupiyj,rohrevjrdonte
fxuaj;ruhwrevotrOrwowriceridrevjrtvinerfojajtridrpiunwtrevuerOrpnicsverih
qzrnuderdniqrevjrtvofkrrPcer vjhrOrvuwr nicsvericertiqjrpiunwtrutrupiyj,
Orquwjrxunsjrtvjxyjt,ridrevjrpnjuwevridrurdiieruhwrurvuxd,rihjriyjn
uhievjnruxxruxihsrihjrtowjridrqzrauyj,reirxuzruxxrqzreiixt,rhuoxtruhw
onih in.rih;ruhw,rohrur inw,reirtjfunuejrjyjnzevohsruerxunsjroheirevjon
fxuajt,revuerOrqosveraiqjrjutoxzruerevjqkrrOr.hia.jwrfojajtroheirevjr uxx
idrevjrnia.reirvuhsrqzrschtruhwruxxrevohstrevuer icxwrvuhsrcf;rtirevue,
vuwrqzrauyjrpjjhreirpjrtjjh,roerxii.jwrxo.jrursjhjnuxrqusugohjridruxx
hjajttunzrevohst;ruhwrvuwrjyjnzevohsrtirnjuwzruerqzrvuhw,revueroer utru
snjuerfxjutcnjreirqjreirtjjruxxrqzrsiiwtrohrtcavrinwjn,ruhwrjtfjaouxxzrei
dohwrqzrteia.ridruxxrhjajttunojtrtirsnjuek

Uhwrhi roer utrevuerOrpjsuhreir.jjfrurbicnhuxridrjyjnzrwuz’trjqfxizqjhe;
din,rohwjjw,ruerdonterOr utrohreiirqcavrvcnnz,ruhwrhierihxzrvcnnzrutrei
xupicn,rpcerohreiirqcavrwotaiqfitcnjridrqohw;ruhwrqzrbicnhuxr icxwrvuyj
pjjhrdcxxridrquhzrwcxxrevohst;rdinrjmuqfxj,rOrqctervuyjrtuowrevct:
“30_ev_k—UdejnrOrvuwrsiereirtvinj,ruhwrjtaufjwrwni hohs,rohtejuwridrpjohs
evuh.dcxreirSiwrdinrqzrwjxoyjnuhaj,rvuyohsrdonteryiqoejw,r oevrevjrsnjue
lcuheoezridrtuxer uejnr voavrvuwrsieroheirqzrteiquav,ruhwrnjaiyjnohs
qztjxdrurxoeexj,rOrnuhrupicerevjrtvinjr nohsohsrqzrvuhwtruhwrpjueohsrqz
vjuwruhwrduaj,rjmaxuoqohsruerqzrqotjnz,ruhwranzohsrice,r‘Or utrchwihj,
chwihj!’reoxx,reonjwruhwrduohe,rOr utrdinajwreirxojrwi hrihrevjrsnichwrei
njfitj,rpcerwcnterhiertxjjfrdinrdjunridrpjohsrwjyicnjwk”

Tiqjrwuztrudejnrevot,ruhwrudejnrOrvuwrpjjhrihrpiunwrevjrtvof,ruhwrsieruxx
evuerOraicxwriceridrvjn,rzjerOraicxwrhierdinpjunrsjeeohsrcfreirevjreifrid
urxoeexjrqicheuohruhwrxii.ohsricereirtju,rohrvifjtridrtjjohsrurtvof;revjh
duhazrueruryuterwoteuhajrOrtfojwrurtuox,rfxjutjrqztjxdr oevrevjrvifjtrid
oe,ruhwrevjhrudejnrxii.ohsrtejuwoxz,reoxxrOr utruxqiterpxohw,rxitjroe
lcoej,ruhwrtoerwi hruhwr jjfrxo.jruravoxw,ruhwrevctrohanjutjrqzrqotjnzrpz
qzrdixxzk

Pcervuyohsrsieejhriyjnrevjtjrevohstrohrtiqjrqjutcnj,ruhwrvuyohsrtjeexjw
qzrvictjvixwrteuddruhwrvupoeueoih,rquwjrqjrureupxjruhwruravuon,ruhwruxx
utrvuhwtiqjrupicerqjrutrOraicxw,rOrpjsuhreir.jjfrqzrbicnhux;ridr voavrO
tvuxxrvjnjrsoyjrzicrevjraifzr(evicsvrohroer oxxrpjreixwruxxrevjtj
funeoacxuntriyjnrusuoh)rutrxihsrutroerxutejw;rdinrvuyohsrhirqinjroh.,rO
 utrdinajwreirxjuyjroeriddk




AVUFEJNrY—PCOXWTrUrVICTJ—EVJrBICNHUX


Tjfejqpjnr30,r1659k—O,rfiinrqotjnupxjrNipohtihrAnctij,rpjohsrtvof nja.jw
wcnohsrurwnjuwdcxrteinqrohrevjriddohs,rauqjrihrtvinjrihrevotrwotqux,
chdinechuejrotxuhw,r voavrOrauxxjwr“EvjrOtxuhwridrWjtfuon”;ruxxrevjrnjte
idrevjrtvof’traiqfuhzrpjohsrwni hjw,ruhwrqztjxdruxqiterwjuwk

UxxrevjrnjteridrevjrwuzrOrtfjherohruddxoaeohsrqztjxdruerevjrwotqux
aonacqteuhajtrOr utrpnicsverei—yogkrOrvuwrhjoevjnrdiiw,rvictj,raxievjt,
 jufih,rhinrfxuajreirdxzrei;ruhwrohrwjtfuonridruhzrnjxojd,rtu rhievohs
pcerwjuevrpjdinjrqj—joevjnrevuerOrtvicxwrpjrwjyicnjwrpzr oxwrpjutet,
qcnwjnjwrpzrtuyusjt,rinrteunyjwreirwjuevrdinr uheridrdiiwkrrUerevj
uffniuavridrhosverOrtxjferohrurenjj,rdinrdjunridr oxwranjuecnjt;rpce
txjfertichwxz,revicsvroernuohjwruxxrhosvek

_Iaeipjn_r1k—OhrevjrqinhohsrOrtu ,reirqzrsnjuertcnfnotj,revjrtvofrvuw
dxiuejwr oevrevjrvosvreowj,ruhwr utrwnoyjhrihrtvinjrusuohrqcavrhjunjnrevj
otxuhw;r voav,rutroer utrtiqjraiqdine,rihrihjrvuhw—din,rtjjohsrvjnrtje
cfnosve,ruhwrhierpni.jhreirfojajt,rOrvifjw,rodrevjr ohwrupuejw,rOrqosve
sjerihrpiunw,ruhwrsjertiqjrdiiwruhwrhjajttunojtriceridrvjnrdinrqz
njxojd—ti,rihrevjrievjnrvuhw,roernjhj jwrqzrsnojdruerevjrxittridrqz
aiqnuwjt,r vi,rOroqusohjw,rodr jrvuwruxxrteuzjwrihrpiunw,rqosvervuyj
tuyjwrevjrtvof,rin,ruerxjute,revuerevjzr icxwrhiervuyjrpjjhruxxrwni hjw
utrevjzr jnj;ruhwrevue,rvuwrevjrqjhrpjjhrtuyjw,r jrqosverfjnvuftrvuyj
pcoxerctrurpiuericeridrevjrncohtridrevjrtvofreirvuyjraunnojwrctreirtiqj
ievjnrfuneridrevjr inxwkrrOrtfjhersnjuerfuneridrevotrwuzrohrfjnfxjmohs
qztjxdrihrevjtjrevohst;rpceruerxjhsev,rtjjohsrevjrtvofruxqiterwnz,rOr jhe
cfihrevjrtuhwrutrhjunrutrOraicxw,ruhwrevjhrt uqrihrpiunwkrrEvotrwuzruxti
oeraiheohcjwrnuohohs,revicsvr oevrhir ohwrueruxxk

_Dniqrevjr1teridrIaeipjnreirevjr24ev_k—Uxxrevjtjrwuztrjheonjxzrtfjheroh
quhzrtjyjnuxryizusjtreirsjeruxxrOraicxwriceridrevjrtvof,r voavrOrpnicsve
ihrtvinjrjyjnzreowjridrdxiiwrcfihrnudetkrrQcavrnuohruxtirohrevjrwuzt,
evicsvr oevrtiqjrohejnyuxtridrduonr juevjn;rpceroertjjqtrevotr utrevj
nuohzrtjutihk

_Iaek_r20k—Oriyjntjerqzrnude,ruhwruxxrevjrsiiwtrOrvuwrsiercfihroe;rpce,
pjohsrohrtviuxr uejn,ruhwrevjrevohstrpjohsravojdxzrvjuyz,rOrnjaiyjnjw
quhzridrevjqr vjhrevjreowjr utricek

_Iaek_r25k—Oernuohjwruxxrhosveruhwruxxrwuz,r oevrtiqjrsctetridr ohw;
wcnohsr voavreoqjrevjrtvofrpni.jrohrfojajt,revjr ohwrpxi ohsrurxoeexj
vunwjnrevuhrpjdinj,ruhwr utrhirqinjreirpjrtjjh,rjmajferevjr nja.ridrvjn,
uhwrevuerihxzruerxi r uejnkrrOrtfjherevotrwuzrohraiyjnohsruhwrtjacnohs
evjrsiiwtr voavrOrvuwrtuyjw,revuerevjrnuohrqosverhiertfioxrevjqk

_Iaek_r26k—Or ux.jwrupicerevjrtvinjruxqiteruxxrwuz,reirdohwricerurfxuaj
eirdomrqzrvupoeueoih,rsnjuexzraihajnhjwreirtjacnjrqztjxdrdniqruhzrueeua.
ohrevjrhosve,rjoevjnrdniqr oxwrpjutetrinrqjhkrrEi unwtrhosve,rOrdomjw
cfihrurfnifjnrfxuaj,rchwjnrurnia.,ruhwrqun.jwricerurtjqoaonaxjrdinrqz
jhauqfqjhe;r voavrOrnjtixyjwreirtenjhsevjhr oevrur in.,r uxx,rin
dineodoaueoih,rquwjridrwicpxjrfoxjt,rxohjwr oevohr oevraupxjt,ruhw
 oevicer oevrecndk

Dniqrevjr26evreirevjr30evrOr in.jwryjnzrvunwrohraunnzohsruxxrqzrsiiwtrei
qzrhj rvupoeueoih,revicsvrtiqjrfuneridrevjreoqjroernuohjwrjmajjwohsxz
vunwk

Evjr31te,rohrevjrqinhohs,rOr jhericeroheirevjrotxuhwr oevrqzrsch,reirtjj.
dinrtiqjrdiiw,ruhwrwotaiyjnrevjraichenz;r vjhrOr.oxxjwrurtvj-siue,ruhw
vjnr.owrdixxi jwrqjrviqj,r voavrOrudejn unwtr.oxxjwruxti,rpjauctjroe
 icxwrhierdjjwk

_Hiyjqpjn_r1k—Ortjercfrqzrejherchwjnrurnia.,ruhwrxuzrevjnjrdinrevjrdonte
hosve;rqu.ohsroerutrxunsjrutrOraicxw,r oevrteu.jtrwnoyjhrohreirt ohsrqz
vuqqia.rcfihk

_Hiyk_r2k—Ortjercfruxxrqzravjtetruhwrpiunwt,ruhwrevjrfojajtridreoqpjn
 voavrquwjrqzrnudet,ruhwr oevrevjqrdinqjwrurdjhajrnichwrqj,rurxoeexj
 oevohrevjrfxuajrOrvuwrqun.jwricerdinrqzrdineodoaueoihk

_Hiyk_r3k—Or jhericer oevrqzrsch,ruhwr.oxxjwre irdi xtrxo.jrwca.t,r voav
 jnjryjnzrsiiwrdiiwkrrOhrevjrudejnhiihr jhereir in.reirqu.jrqjrureupxjk

_Hiy_kr4k—EvotrqinhohsrOrpjsuhreirinwjnrqzreoqjtridr in.,ridrsiohsrice
 oevrqzrsch,reoqjridrtxjjf,ruhwreoqjridrwoyjntoih—yogkrjyjnzrqinhohsrO
 ux.jwricer oevrqzrschrdinre irinrevnjjrvicnt,rodroerwowrhiernuoh;revjh
jqfxizjwrqztjxdreir in.reoxxrupicerjxjyjhri’axia.;revjhrjuer vuerOrvuwrei
xoyjrih;ruhwrdniqre jxyjreire irOrxuzrwi hreirtxjjf,revjr juevjnrpjohs
jmajttoyjxzrvie;ruhwrevjh,rohrevjrjyjhohs,reir in.rusuohkrrEvjr in.ohs
funeridrevotrwuzruhwridrevjrhjmer jnjr vixxzrjqfxizjwrohrqu.ohsrqzreupxj,
dinrOr utrzjerpceruryjnzrtinnzr in.quh,revicsvreoqjruhwrhjajttoezrquwjrqj
uraiqfxjejrhuecnuxrqjavuhoartiihrudejn,rutrOrpjxojyjrevjzr icxwrwiruhz
ihjrjxtjk

_Hiyk_r5k—Evotrwuzr jherupniuwr oevrqzrschruhwrqzrwis,ruhwr.oxxjwrur oxw
aue;rvjnrt.ohrfnjeezrtide,rpcervjnrdxjtvrsiiwrdinrhievohs;rjyjnzranjuecnj
evuerOr.oxxjwrOreii.ridrevjrt.ohtruhwrfnjtjnyjwrevjqkrrAiqohsrpua.rpzrevj
tju-tvinj,rOrtu rquhzrtinetridrtju-di xt,r voavrOrwowrhierchwjnteuhw;rpce
 utrtcnfnotjw,ruhwruxqiterdnosvejhjw,r oevre irinrevnjjrtjuxt,r voav,
 voxjrOr utrsugohsrue,rhier jxxr.hi ohsr vuerevjzr jnj,rsieroheirevjrtju,
uhwrjtaufjwrqjrdinrevuereoqjk

_Hiyk_r6k—Udejnrqzrqinhohsr ux.rOr jhereir in.r oevrqzreupxjrusuoh,ruhw
dohotvjwroe,revicsvrhiereirqzrxo.ohs;rhinr utroerxihsrpjdinjrOrxjunhjwrei
qjhwroek

_Hiyk_r7k—Hi roerpjsuhreirpjrtjeexjwrduonr juevjnkrrEvjr7ev,r8ev,r9ev,
10ev,ruhwrfuneridrevjr12evr(dinrevjr11evr utrTchwuz)rOreii.r vixxzrcfrei
qu.jrqjruravuon,ruhwr oevrqcavruwirpnicsveroereirureixjnupxjrtvufj,rpce
hjyjnreirfxjutjrqj;ruhwrjyjhrohrevjrqu.ohsrOrfcxxjwroerohrfojajtrtjyjnux
eoqjtk

_Hiej_k—Ortiihrhjsxjaejwrqzr.jjfohsrTchwuzt;rdin,riqoeeohsrqzrqun.rdin
evjqrihrqzrfite,rOrdinsier voavr utr voavk

_Hiyk_r13k—Evotrwuzroernuohjw,r voavrnjdnjtvjwrqjrjmajjwohsxz,ruhwraiixjw
evjrjunev;rpceroer utruaaiqfuhojwr oevrejnnopxjrevchwjnruhwrxosvehohs,
 voavrdnosvejhjwrqjrwnjuwdcxxz,rdinrdjunridrqzrfi wjnkrrUtrtiihrutroer ut
iyjn,rOrnjtixyjwreirtjfunuejrqzrteia.ridrfi wjnroheirutrquhzrxoeexj
funajxtrutrfittopxj,revueroerqosverhierpjrohrwuhsjnk

_Hiyk_r14,r15,r16k—EvjtjrevnjjrwuztrOrtfjherohrqu.ohsrxoeexjrtlcunj
avjtet,rinrpimjt,r voavrqosvervixwrupicerurfichw,rinre irfichwtruerqite,
idrfi wjn;ruhwrti,rfceeohsrevjrfi wjnroh,rOrtei jwroerohrfxuajtrutrtjacnj
uhwrnjqiejrdniqrihjruhievjnrutrfittopxjkrrIhrihjridrevjtjrevnjjrwuztrO
.oxxjwrurxunsjrponwrevuer utrsiiwreirjue,rpcerOr.hj rhier vuereirauxxroek

_Hiyk_r17k—EvotrwuzrOrpjsuhreirwosrpjvohwrqzrejheroheirevjrnia.,reirqu.j
niiqrdinrqzrdcnevjnraihyjhojhazk

_Hiej_k—EvnjjrevohstrOr uhejwrjmajjwohsxzrdinrevotr in.—yogkrurfoa.umj,ru
tviyjx,ruhwrur vjjxpunni rinrput.je;rtirOrwjtotejwrdniqrqzr in.,ruhw
pjsuhreiraihtowjnrvi reirtcffxzrevuer uhe,ruhwrqu.jrqjrtiqjreiixtkrrUt
dinrevjrfoa.umj,rOrquwjrctjridrevjronihrani t,r voavr jnjrfnifjnrjhicsv,
evicsvrvjuyz;rpcerevjrhjmerevohsr utrurtviyjxrinrtfuwj;revotr utrti
uptixcejxzrhjajttunz,revue,rohwjjw,rOraicxwrwirhievohsrjddjaecuxxz
 oeviceroe;rpcer vuer.ohwridrihjreirqu.jrOr.hj rhiek

_Hiyk_r18k—Evjrhjmerwuz,rohrtjunavohsrevjr iiwt,rOrdichwrurenjjridrevue
 iiw,rinrxo.jroe,r voavrohrevjrPnugoxtrevjzrauxxrevjronih-enjj,rdinroet
jmajjwohsrvunwhjttkrrIdrevot,r oevrsnjuerxupicn,ruhwruxqitertfioxohsrqz
umj,rOracerurfojaj,ruhwrpnicsveroerviqj,reii,r oevrwoddoacxezrjhicsv,rdin
oer utrjmajjwohsrvjuyzkrrEvjrjmajttoyjrvunwhjttridrevjr iiw,ruhwrqz
vuyohsrhirievjnr uz,rquwjrqjrurxihsr voxjrcfihrevotrquavohj,rdinrOr in.jw
oerjddjaecuxxzrpzrxoeexjruhwrxoeexjroheirevjrdinqridrurtviyjxrinrtfuwj;
evjrvuhwxjrjmuaexzrtvufjwrxo.jricntrohrJhsxuhw,rihxzrevuerevjrpiunwrfune
vuyohsrhironihrtviwrcfihroeruerpieeiq,roer icxwrhierxuterqjrtirxihs;
vi jyjn,roertjnyjwr jxxrjhicsvrdinrevjrctjtr voavrOrvuwriaautoihreirfce
oerei;rpcerhjyjnr utrurtviyjx,rOrpjxojyj,rquwjrudejnrevuerdutvoih,rinrti
xihsrohrqu.ohsk

Or utrteoxxrwjdoaojhe,rdinrOr uhejwrurput.jerinrur vjjxpunni krrUrput.je
Oraicxwrhierqu.jrpzruhzrqjuht,rvuyohsrhirtcavrevohstrutre ostrevuer icxw
pjhwreirqu.jr oa.jn- unj—uerxjute,rhihjrzjerdichwrice;ruhwrutreiru
 vjjxpunni ,rOrduhaojwrOraicxwrqu.jruxxrpcerevjr vjjx;rpcerevuerOrvuwrhi
hieoihrid;rhjoevjnrwowrOr.hi rvi reirsirupiceroe;rpjtowjt,rOrvuwrhi
fittopxjr uzreirqu.jrevjronihrscwsjihtrdinrevjrtfohwxjrinrumotridrevj
 vjjxreirnchroh;rtirOrsuyjroeriyjn,ruhwrti,rdinraunnzohsru uzrevjrjunev
 voavrOrwcsriceridrevjrauyj,rOrquwjrqjrurevohsrxo.jrurviwr voavrevj
xupicnjntraunnzrqineunrohr vjhrevjzrtjnyjrevjrpnoa.xuzjntkrrEvotr utrhie
tirwoddoacxereirqjrutrevjrqu.ohsrevjrtviyjx:ruhwrzjerevotruhwrevjrtviyjx,
uhwrevjrueejqfer voavrOrquwjrohryuohreirqu.jrur vjjxpunni ,reii.rqjrcfrhi
xjttrevuhrdicnrwuzt—Orqjuhrux uztrjmajfeohsrqzrqinhohsr ux.r oevrqzrsch,
 voavrOrtjxwiqrduoxjw,ruhwryjnzrtjxwiqrduoxjwruxtirpnohsohsrviqj
tiqjevohsrdoereirjuek

_Hiyk_r23k—Qzrievjnr in.rvuyohsrhi rteiiwrteoxx,rpjauctjridrqzrqu.ohs
evjtjreiixt,r vjhrevjzr jnjrdohotvjwrOr jherih,ruhwr in.ohsrjyjnzrwuz,rut
qzrtenjhsevruhwreoqjruxxi jw,rOrtfjherjosvejjhrwuztrjheonjxzrohr owjhohs
uhwrwjjfjhohsrqzrauyj,revueroerqosvervixwrqzrsiiwtraiqqiwoictxzk

_Hiej_k—WcnohsruxxrevotreoqjrOr in.jwreirqu.jrevotrniiqrinrauyjrtfuaoict
jhicsvreiruaaiqqiwuejrqjrutrur unjvictjrinrqusugohj,rur.oeavjh,ru
wohohs-niiq,ruhwrurajxxunkrrUtrdinrqzrxiwsohs,rOr.jfereirevjrejhe;rjmajfe
evuertiqjeoqjt,rohrevjr jertjutihridrevjrzjun,roernuohjwrtirvunwrevuerO
aicxwrhier.jjfrqztjxdrwnz,r voavrauctjwrqjrudejn unwtreiraiyjnruxxrqz
fxuajr oevohrqzrfuxjr oevrxihsrfixjt,rohrevjrdinqridrnudejnt,rxjuhohs
usuohterevjrnia.,ruhwrxiuwrevjqr oevrdxustruhwrxunsjrxjuyjtridrenjjt,
xo.jrurevueavk

_Wjajqpjn_r10k—Orpjsuhrhi reirevoh.rqzrauyjrinryucxerdohotvjw,r vjhrihru
tcwwjhr(oertjjqtrOrvuwrquwjroereiirxunsj)rursnjuerlcuheoezridrjunevrdjxx
wi hrdniqrevjreifrihrihjrtowj;rtirqcavrevue,rohrtvine,roerdnosvejwrqj,
uhwrhier oevicernjutih,reii,rdinrodrOrvuwrpjjhrchwjnroe,rOrvuwrhjyjn
 uhejwrursnuyjwossjnkrrOrvuwrhi rursnjuerwjuxridr in.reirwiriyjnrusuoh,
dinrOrvuwrevjrxiitjrjunevreiraunnzrice;ruhw,r voavr utridrqinj
oqfineuhaj,rOrvuwrevjrajoxohsreirfnifrcf,rtirevuerOrqosverpjrtcnjrhirqinj
 icxwraiqjrwi hk

_Wja_kr11k—EvotrwuzrOr jhereir in.r oevroeruaainwohsxz,ruhwrsiere i
tvinjtrinrfitetrfoeavjwrcfnosvereirevjreif,r oevre irfojajtridrpiunwt
uanittriyjnrjuavrfite;revotrOrdohotvjwrevjrhjmerwuz;ruhwrtjeeohsrqinj
fitetrcfr oevrpiunwt,rohrupicerur jj.rqinjrOrvuwrevjrniidrtjacnjw,ruhw
evjrfitet,rteuhwohsrohrni t,rtjnyjwrqjrdinrfuneoeoihtreirfuneriddrevj
victjk

_Wjak_r17k—Dniqrevotrwuzreirevjr20evrOrfxuajwrtvjxyjt,ruhwr.hia.jwrcf
huoxtrihrevjrfitet,reirvuhsrjyjnzevohsrcfrevueraicxwrpjrvchsrcf;ruhwrhi 
Orpjsuhreirpjrohrtiqjrinwjnr oevohrwiintk

_Wjak_r20k—Hi rOraunnojwrjyjnzevohsroheirevjrauyj,ruhwrpjsuhreirdcnhotv
qzrvictj,ruhwrtjercfrtiqjrfojajtridrpiunwtrxo.jrurwnjttjn,reirinwjnrqz
yoaecuxtrcfih;rpcerpiunwtrpjsuhreirpjryjnzrtaunajr oevrqj;ruxti,rOrquwj
qjruhievjnreupxjk

_Wjak_r24k—QcavrnuohruxxrhosveruhwruxxrwuzkrrHirteonnohsricek

_Wjak_r25k—Nuohruxxrwuzk

_Wjak_r26k—Hirnuoh,ruhwrevjrjunevrqcavraiixjnrevuhrpjdinj,ruhw
fxjutuhejnk

_Wjak_r27k—.oxxjwrurzichsrsiue,ruhwrxuqjwruhievjn,rtirevuerOraucsveroe
uhwrxjwroerviqjrohrurtenohs;r vjhrOrvuwroeruerviqj,rOrpichwruhw
tfxohejnjwrcfroetrxjs,r voavr utrpni.jk

_HkPk_—Oreii.rtcavraunjridroerevueroerxoyjw,ruhwrevjrxjsrsnj r jxxruhwrut
tenihsrutrjyjn;rpce,rpzrqzrhcntohsroertirxihs,roersnj reuqj,ruhwrdjwrcfih
evjrxoeexjrsnjjhruerqzrwiin,ruhwr icxwrhiersiru uzkrrEvotr utrevjrdonte
eoqjrevuerOrjhejneuohjwrurevicsveridrpnjjwohsrcfrtiqjreuqjranjuecnjt,
evuerOrqosvervuyjrdiiwr vjhrqzrfi wjnruhwrtvier utruxxrtfjhek

_Wjak_r28,r29,r30k—Snjuervjuetruhwrhirpnjjgj,rtirevuerevjnjr utrhi
teonnohsrupniuwrjmajferohrevjrjyjhohsrdinrdiiw;revotreoqjrOrtfjheroh
fceeohsruxxrqzrevohstrohrinwjnr oevohrwiintk

_Buhcunz_r1k—Yjnzrvierteoxx:rpcerOr jherupniuwrjunxzruhwrxuejr oevrqz
sch,ruhwrxuzrteoxxrohrevjrqowwxjridrevjrwuzkrrEvotrjyjhohs,rsiohsrdunevjn
oheirevjryuxxjztr voavrxuzrei unwtrevjrajhenjridrevjrotxuhw,rOrdichw
evjnjr jnjrfxjhezridrsiuet,revicsvrjmajjwohsxzrtvz,ruhwrvunwreiraiqjrue;
vi jyjn,rOrnjtixyjwreirenzrodrOraicxwrhierpnohsrqzrwisreirvcherevjqrwi hk

_Buhk_r2k—Uaainwohsxz,revjrhjmerwuzrOr jhericer oevrqzrwis,ruhwrtjervoq
cfihrevjrsiuet,rpcerOr utrqoteu.jh,rdinrevjzruxxrduajwrupicercfihrevj
wis,ruhwrvjr.hj rvotrwuhsjnreiir jxx,rdinrvjr icxwrhieraiqjrhjunrevjqk

_Buhk_r3k—Orpjsuhrqzrdjhajrinr uxx;r voav,rpjohsrteoxxrbjuxictridrqz
pjohsrueeua.jwrpzrtiqjpiwz,rOrnjtixyjwreirqu.jryjnzrevoa.ruhwrtenihsk

_HkPk_—Evotr uxxrpjohsrwjtanopjwrpjdinj,rOrfcnfitjxzriqoer vuer utrtuow
ohrevjrbicnhux;roerotrtcddoaojhereiriptjnyj,revuerOr utrhirxjttreoqjrevuh
dniqrevjr2hwridrBuhcunzreirevjr14evridrUfnoxr in.ohs,rdohotvohs,ruhw
fjndjaeohsrevotr uxx,revicsvroer utrhirqinjrevuhrupicere jhez-dicnrzunwt
ohrxjhsev,rpjohsrurvuxd-aonaxjrdniqrihjrfxuajrohrevjrnia.reiruhievjn
fxuaj,rupicerjosverzunwtrdniqroe,revjrwiinridrevjrauyjrpjohsrohrevj
ajhenjrpjvohwroek

UxxrevotreoqjrOr in.jwryjnzrvunw,revjrnuohtrvohwjnohsrqjrquhzrwuzt,rhuz,
tiqjeoqjtr jj.treisjevjn;rpcerOrevicsverOrtvicxwrhjyjnrpjrfjndjaexz
tjacnjreoxxrevotr uxxr utrdohotvjw;ruhwroerotrtaunajranjwopxjr vue
ohjmfnjttopxjrxupicnrjyjnzevohsr utrwihjr oev,rjtfjaouxxzrevjrpnohsohs
foxjtriceridrevjr iiwtruhwrwnoyohsrevjqroheirevjrsnichw;rdinrOrquwjrevjq
qcavrpossjnrevuhrOrhjjwjwreirvuyjrwihjk

 vjhrevotr uxxr utrdohotvjw,ruhwrevjricetowjrwicpxjrdjhajw,r oevrurecnd
 uxxrnuotjwrcfraxitjreiroe,rOrfjnajoyjwrqztjxdrevuerodruhzrfjifxjr jnjrei
aiqjrihrtvinjrevjnj,revjzr icxwrhierfjnajoyjruhzevohsrxo.jrurvupoeueoih;
uhwroer utryjnzr jxxrOrwowrti,rutrquzrpjriptjnyjwrvjnjudejn,rcfihruryjnz
njqun.upxjriaautoihk

WcnohsrevotreoqjrOrquwjrqzrnichwtrohrevjr iiwtrdinrsuqjrjyjnzrwuzr vjh
evjrnuohrfjnqoeejwrqj,ruhwrquwjrdnjlcjherwotaiyjnojtrohrevjtjr ux.trid
tiqjevohsrinrievjnreirqzruwyuheusj;rfuneoacxunxz,rOrdichwrur.ohwridr oxw
fosjiht,r voavrpcoxw,rhierutr iiw-fosjihtrohrurenjj,rpcernuevjnrut
victj-fosjiht,rohrevjrvixjtridrevjrnia.t;ruhwreu.ohsrtiqjrzichsrihjt,rO
jhwjuyicnjwreirpnjjwrevjqrcfreuqj,ruhwrwowrti;rpcer vjhrevjzrsnj rixwjn
evjzrdxj ru uz,r voavrfjnvuftr utruerdonterdinr uheridrdjjwohsrevjq,rdin
Orvuwrhievohsreirsoyjrevjq;rvi jyjn,rOrdnjlcjhexzrdichwrevjonrhjtet,ruhw
sierevjonrzichsrihjt,r voavr jnjryjnzrsiiwrqjuekrrUhwrhi ,rohrevj
quhusohsrqzrvictjvixwrudduont,rOrdichwrqztjxdr uheohsrohrquhzrevohst,
 voavrOrevicsveruerdonteroer utroqfittopxjrdinrqjreirqu.j;rut,rohwjjw,
 oevrtiqjridrevjqroer ut:rdinrohteuhaj,rOraicxwrhjyjnrqu.jruraut.reirpj
viifjwkrrOrvuwrurtquxxrnchxjerinre i,rutrOriptjnyjwrpjdinj;rpcerOraicxw
hjyjnrunnoyjruerevjraufuaoezridrqu.ohsrihjrpzrevjq,revicsvrOrtfjherquhz
 jj.trupiceroe;rOraicxwrhjoevjnrfcerohrevjrvjuwt,rinrbiohrevjrteuyjtrti
encjreirihjruhievjnrutreirqu.jrevjqrvixwr uejn;rtirOrsuyjrevueruxtiriyjnk
Ohrevjrhjmerfxuaj,rOr utruerursnjuerxittrdinrauhwxjt;rtirevuerutrtiihrut
jyjnroer utrwun.,r voavr utrsjhjnuxxzrpzrtjyjhri’axia.,rOr utripxosjwrei
sireirpjwkrrOrnjqjqpjnjwrevjrxcqfridrpjjt umr oevr voavrOrquwjrauhwxjtroh
qzrUdnoauhruwyjhecnj;rpcerOrvuwrhihjridrevuerhi ;revjrihxzrnjqjwzrOrvuw
 ut,revuer vjhrOrvuwr.oxxjwrursiuerOrtuyjwrevjreuxxi ,ruhwr oevrurxoeexj
wotvrquwjridraxuz,r voavrOrpu.jwrohrevjrtch,reir voavrOruwwjwrur oa.rid
tiqjriu.cq,rOrquwjrqjrurxuqf;ruhwrevotrsuyjrqjrxosve,revicsvrhieruraxjun,
tejuwzrxosve,rxo.jrurauhwxjkrrOhrevjrqowwxjridruxxrqzrxupicntroervuffjhjw
evue,rncqqusohsrqzrevohst,rOrdichwrurxoeexjrpusr voav,rutrOrvohejw
pjdinj,rvuwrpjjhrdoxxjwr oevrainhrdinrevjrdjjwohsridrficxenz—hierdinrevot
yizusj,rpcerpjdinj,rutrOrtcffitj,r vjhrevjrtvofrauqjrdniqrXotpihkrrEvj
xoeexjrnjquohwjnridrainhrevuervuwrpjjhrohrevjrpusr utruxxrwjyicnjwrpzrevj
nuet,ruhwrOrtu rhievohsrohrevjrpusrpcervct.truhwrwcte;ruhwrpjohsr oxxohs
eirvuyjrevjrpusrdinrtiqjrievjnrctjr(Orevoh.roer utreirfcerfi wjnroh,r vjh
Orwoyowjwroerdinrdjunridrevjrxosvehohs,rinrtiqjrtcavrctj),rOrtvii.revj
vct.tridrainhriceridroerihrihjrtowjridrqzrdineodoaueoih,rchwjnrevjrnia.k

Oer utrurxoeexjrpjdinjrevjrsnjuernuohtrbcterhi rqjheoihjwrevuerOrevnj 
evotrtecddru uz,reu.ohsrhirhieoaj,ruhwrhiertirqcavrutrnjqjqpjnohsrevuerO
vuwrevni hruhzevohsrevjnj,r vjh,rupicerurqihevrudejn,rinrevjnjupicet,rO
tu rtiqjrdj rteux.tridrtiqjevohsrsnjjhrtviieohsriceridrevjrsnichw,r voav
OrduhaojwrqosverpjrtiqjrfxuherOrvuwrhiertjjh;rpcerOr utrtcnfnotjw,ruhw
fjndjaexzruteihotvjw,r vjh,rudejnrurxoeexjrxihsjnreoqj,rOrtu rupicerejh
inre jxyjrjuntraiqjrice,r voavr jnjrfjndjaersnjjhrpunxjz,ridrevjrtuqj
.ohwrutricnrJcnifjuh—huz,rutricnrJhsxotvrpunxjzk

Oerotroqfittopxjreirjmfnjttrevjruteihotvqjheruhwraihdctoihridrqzrevicsvet
ihrevotriaautoihkrrOrvuwrvoevjneiruaejwrcfihrhirnjxosoictrdichwueoihrue
uxx;rohwjjw,rOrvuwryjnzrdj rhieoihtridrnjxosoihrohrqzrvjuw,rhinrvuw
jhejneuohjwruhzrtjhtjridruhzevohsrevuervuwrpjduxxjhrqjrievjn otjrevuhrut
avuhaj,rin,rutr jrxosvexzrtuz,r vuerfxjutjtrSiw,r oevicertirqcavrut
ohlconohsroheirevjrjhwridrFniyowjhajrohrevjtjrevohst,rinrVotrinwjnroh
siyjnhohsrjyjhetrdinrevjr inxwkrrPcerudejnrOrtu rpunxjzrsni revjnj,rohru
axoquejr voavrOr.hj r utrhierfnifjnrdinrainh,ruhwrjtfjaouxxzrevuerOr.hj 
hiervi roerauqjrevjnj,roerteunexjwrqjrtenuhsjxz,ruhwrOrpjsuhreirtcssjte
evuerSiwrvuwrqonuacxictxzrauctjwrVotrsnuohreirsni r oeviceruhzrvjxfrid
tjjwrti h,ruhwrevueroer utrtirwonjaejwrfcnjxzrdinrqzrtctejhuhajrihrevue
 oxw,rqotjnupxjrfxuajk

Evotreicavjwrqzrvjunerurxoeexj,ruhwrpnicsverejuntriceridrqzrjzjt,ruhwrO
pjsuhreirpxjttrqztjxdrevuertcavrurfniwoszridrhuecnjrtvicxwrvuffjhrcfihrqz
uaaiche;ruhwrevotr utrevjrqinjrtenuhsjreirqj,rpjauctjrOrtu rhjunroe
teoxx,ruxxruxihsrpzrevjrtowjridrevjrnia.,rtiqjrievjnrtenussxohsrteux.t,
 voavrfniyjwreirpjrteux.tridrnoaj,ruhwr voavrOr.hj ,rpjauctjrOrvuwrtjjh
oersni rohrUdnoaur vjhrOr utrutvinjrevjnjk

OrhierihxzrevicsverevjtjrevjrfcnjrfniwcaeoihtridrFniyowjhajrdinrqz
tcffine,rpcerhierwicpeohsrevuerevjnjr utrqinjrohrevjrfxuaj,rOr jheruxx
iyjnrevuerfuneridrevjrotxuhw,r vjnjrOrvuwrpjjhrpjdinj,rfjjnohsrohrjyjnz
ainhjn,ruhwrchwjnrjyjnzrnia.,reirtjjrdinrqinjridroe,rpcerOraicxwrhierdohw
uhzkrrUerxuteroeriaacnnjwreirqzrevicsvetrevuerOrtvii.rurpusridravoa.jht’
qjuericerohrevuerfxuaj;ruhwrevjhrevjr ihwjnrpjsuhreirajutj;ruhwrOrqcte
aihdjttrqzrnjxosoictrevuh.dcxhjttreirSiw’trfniyowjhajrpjsuhreirupuej,
eii,rcfihrevjrwotaiyjnohsrevueruxxrevotr utrhievohsrpcer vuer utraiqqih;
evicsvrOricsvereirvuyjrpjjhrutrevuh.dcxrdinrtirtenuhsjruhwrchdinjtjjhru
fniyowjhajrutrodroervuwrpjjhrqonuacxict;rdinroer utrnjuxxzrevjr in.rid
Fniyowjhajreirqj,revuertvicxwrinwjnrinruffioherevuerejhrinre jxyjrsnuoht
idrainhrtvicxwrnjquohrchtfioxjw,r vjhrevjrnuetrvuwrwjtenizjwruxxrevj
njte,rutrodroervuwrpjjhrwniffjwrdniqrvjuyjh;rutruxti,revuerOrtvicxwrevni 
oericerohrevuerfuneoacxunrfxuaj,r vjnj,roerpjohsrohrevjrtvuwjridrurvosv
nia.,roertfnuhsrcfroqqjwouejxz;r vjnjut,rodrOrvuwrevni hroeruhz vjnjrjxtj
uerevuereoqj,roervuwrpjjhrpcnhercfruhwrwjtenizjwk

Oraunjdcxxzrtuyjwrevjrjuntridrevotrainh,rzicrquzrpjrtcnj,rohrevjon
tjutih,r voavr utrupicerevjrjhwridrBchj;ruhw,rxuzohsrcfrjyjnzrainh,rO
njtixyjwreirti revjqruxxrusuoh,rvifohsrohreoqjreirvuyjrtiqjrlcuheoez
tcddoaojhereirtcffxzrqjr oevrpnjuwkrrPceroer utrhiereoxxrevjrdicnevrzjun
evuerOraicxwruxxi rqztjxdrevjrxjutersnuohridrevotrainhreirjue,ruhwrjyjh
evjhrpcertfunohsxz,rutrOrtvuxxrtuzrudejn unwt,rohroetrinwjn;rdinrOrxite
uxxrevuerOrti jwrevjrdontertjutihrpzrhieriptjnyohsrevjrfnifjnreoqj;rdinrO
ti jwroerbcterpjdinjrevjrwnzrtjutih,rtirevueroerhjyjnrauqjrcfrueruxx,rue
xjuterhierutroer icxwrvuyjrwihj;ridr voavrohroetrfxuajk

Pjtowjtrevotrpunxjz,revjnjr jnj,rutrupiyj,re jhezrinrevonezrteux.trid
noaj,r voavrOrfnjtjnyjwr oevrevjrtuqjraunjruhwrdinrevjrtuqjrctj,rinrei
evjrtuqjrfcnfitj—eirqu.jrqjrpnjuw,rinrnuevjnrdiiw;rdinrOrdichwr uztrei
aii.roer oevicerpu.ohs,revicsvrOrwowrevueruxtirudejnrtiqjreoqjk

PcereirnjecnhreirqzrBicnhuxk

Or in.jwrjmajttoyjrvunwrevjtjrevnjjrinrdicnrqihevtreirsjerqzr uxxrwihj;
uhwrevjr14evridrUfnoxrOraxitjwroercf,raihenoyohsreirsiroheiroe,rhierpzru
wiinrpceriyjnrevjr uxx,rpzrurxuwwjn,revuerevjnjrqosverpjrhirtoshrihrevj
icetowjridrqzrvupoeueoihk

_Ufnox_r16k—Ordohotvjwrevjrxuwwjn;rtirOr jhercfrevjrxuwwjnreirevjreif,
uhwrevjhrfcxxjwroercfrudejnrqj,ruhwrxjeroerwi hrohrevjrohtowjkrrEvotr ut
uraiqfxjejrjhaxitcnjreirqj;rdinr oevohrOrvuwrniiqrjhicsv,ruhwrhievohs
aicxwraiqjruerqjrdniqr oevice,rchxjttroeraicxwrdonterqicherqzr uxxk

Evjryjnzrhjmerwuzrudejnrevotr uxxr utrdohotvjwrOrvuwruxqitervuwruxxrqz
xupicnriyjnevni hruerihaj,ruhwrqztjxdr.oxxjwkrrEvjrautjr utrevct:rUtrO
 utrpctzrohrevjrohtowj,rpjvohwrqzrejhe,rbcteruerevjrjhenuhajroheirqz
auyj,rOr utrejnnopxzrdnosvejwr oevrurqiterwnjuwdcx,rtcnfnotohsrevohs
ohwjjw;rdinruxxrihrurtcwwjhrOrdichwrevjrjunevraiqjrancqpxohsrwi hrdniq
evjrniidridrqzrauyj,ruhwrdniqrevjrjwsjridrevjrvoxxriyjnrqzrvjuw,ruhwre i
idrevjrfitetrOrvuwrtjercfrohrevjrauyjranua.jwrohrurdnosvedcxrquhhjnkrrO
 utrvjuneoxzrtaunjw;rpcerevicsverhievohsridr vuer utrnjuxxzrevjrauctj,
ihxzrevoh.ohsrevuerevjreifridrqzrauyjr utrduxxjhroh,rutrtiqjridroervuw
wihjrpjdinj:ruhwrdinrdjunrOrtvicxwrpjrpcnojwrohroerOrnuhrdin unwreirqz
xuwwjn,ruhwrhierevoh.ohsrqztjxdrtudjrevjnjrhjoevjn,rOrsieriyjnrqzr uxx
dinrdjunridrevjrfojajtridrevjrvoxx,r voavrOrjmfjaejwrqosvernixxrwi hrcfih
qjkrrOrvuwrhirtiihjnrtejffjwrwi hrcfihrevjrdonqrsnichw,revuhrOrfxuohxz
tu roer utrurejnnopxjrjunevlcu.j,rdinrevjrsnichwrOrteiiwrihrtvii.revnjj
eoqjtruerupicerjosverqohcejt’rwoteuhaj,r oevrevnjjrtcavrtvia.trutr icxw
vuyjriyjnecnhjwrevjrtenihsjterpcoxwohsrevueraicxwrpjrtcffitjwreirvuyj
teiiwrihrevjrjunev;ruhwrursnjuerfojajridrevjreifridrurnia.r voavrteiiw
upicervuxdrurqoxjrdniqrqjrhjmerevjrtjurdjxxrwi hr oevrtcavrurejnnopxj
hiotjrutrOrhjyjnrvjunwrohruxxrqzrxodjkrrOrfjnajoyjwruxtirevjryjnzrtjur ut
fceroheiryoixjherqieoihrpzroe;ruhwrOrpjxojyjrevjrtvia.tr jnjrtenihsjn
chwjnrevjr uejnrevuhrihrevjrotxuhwk

Or utrtirqcavruqugjwr oevrevjrevohsroetjxd,rvuyohsrhjyjnrdjxerevjrxo.j,
hinrwotaicntjwr oevruhzrihjrevuervuw,revuerOr utrxo.jrihjrwjuwrin
tecfjdojw;ruhwrevjrqieoihridrevjrjunevrquwjrqzrteiquavrtoa.,rxo.jrihj
evuer utreittjwruertju;rpcerevjrhiotjridrevjrduxxohsridrevjrnia.ru u.jhjw
qj,rutroer jnj,ruhwrnictohsrqjrdniqrevjrtecfjdojwraihwoeoihrOr utroh,
doxxjwrqjr oevrvinnin;ruhwrOrevicsveridrhievohsrevjhrpcerevjrvoxxrduxxohs
cfihrqzrejheruhwruxxrqzrvictjvixwrsiiwt,ruhwrpcnzohsruxxruerihaj;ruhw
evotrtch.rqzryjnzrticxr oevohrqjrurtjaihwreoqjk

Udejnrevjrevonwrtvia.r utriyjn,ruhwrOrdjxerhirqinjrdinrtiqjreoqj,rOrpjsuh
eireu.jraicnusj;ruhwrzjerOrvuwrhiervjunerjhicsvreirsiriyjnrqzr uxxrusuoh,
dinrdjunridrpjohsrpcnojwruxoyj,rpcertuerteoxxrcfihrevjrsnichwrsnjuexz
auterwi hruhwrwotaihtixuej,rhier.hi ohsr vuereirwikrrUxxrevotr voxjrOrvuw
hierevjrxjutertjnoictrnjxosoictrevicsve;rhievohsrpcerevjraiqqihr“Xinw
vuyjrqjnazrcfihrqj!”ruhwr vjhroer utriyjnrevuer jheru uzreiik

 voxjrOrtuerevct,rOrdichwrevjruonriyjnauteruhwrsni raxicwz,rutrodroe
 icxwrnuohkrrTiihrudejnrevuerevjr ohwrunitjrpzrxoeexjruhwrxoeexj,rtirevue
ohrxjttrevuhrvuxd-uh-vicnroerpxj rurqiterwnjuwdcxrvcnnoauhj;revjrtjur ut
uxxrihrurtcwwjhraiyjnjwriyjnr oevrdiuqruhwrdniev;revjrtvinjr utraiyjnjw
 oevrevjrpnjuavridrevjr uejn,revjrenjjtr jnjreinhrcfrpzrevjrniiet,ruhwru
ejnnopxjrteinqroer utkrrEvotrvjxwrupicerevnjjrvicnt,ruhwrevjhrpjsuhrei
upuej;ruhwrohre irvicntrqinjroer utrlcoejrauxq,ruhwrpjsuhreirnuohryjnz
vunwkrrUxxrevotr voxjrOrtuercfihrevjrsnichwryjnzrqcavrejnnodojwruhw
wjbjaejw;r vjhrihrurtcwwjhroerauqjroheirqzrevicsvet,revuerevjtjr ohwtruhw
nuohrpjohsrevjraihtjlcjhajtridrevjrjunevlcu.j,revjrjunevlcu.jroetjxdr ut
tfjheruhwriyjn,ruhwrOrqosveryjhecnjroheirqzrauyjrusuohkrr oevrevot
evicsverqzrtfonoetrpjsuhreirnjyoyj;ruhwrevjrnuohruxtirvjxfohsreirfjntcuwj
qj,rOr jherohruhwrtuerwi hrohrqzrejhekrrPcerevjrnuohr utrtiryoixjherevue
qzrejher utrnjuwzreirpjrpjuejhrwi hr oevroe;ruhwrOr utrdinajwreirsirohei
qzrauyj,revicsvryjnzrqcavrudnuowruhwrchjutz,rdinrdjunroertvicxwrduxxrih
qzrvjuwkrrEvotryoixjhernuohrdinajwrqjreirurhj r in.—yogkreiracerurvixj
evnicsvrqzrhj rdineodoaueoih,rxo.jrurtoh.,reirxjerevjr uejnrsirice,r voav
 icxwrjxtjrvuyjrdxiiwjwrqzrauyjkrrUdejnrOrvuwrpjjhrohrqzrauyjrdinrtiqj
eoqj,ruhwrdichwrteoxxrhirqinjrtvia.tridrevjrjunevlcu.jrdixxi ,rOrpjsuhrei
pjrqinjraiqfitjwkrrUhwrhi ,reirtcffinerqzrtfonoet,r voavrohwjjwr uhejwroe
yjnzrqcav,rOr jhereirqzrxoeexjrteinj,ruhwreii.rurtquxxrtcfridrncq;r voav,
vi jyjn,rOrwowrevjhruhwrux uztryjnzrtfunohsxz,r.hi ohsrOraicxwrvuyjrhi
qinjr vjhrevuer utrsihjkrrOeraiheohcjwrnuohohsruxxrevuerhosveruhwrsnjue
funeridrevjrhjmerwuz,rtirevuerOraicxwrhierteonrupniuw;rpcerqzrqohwrpjohs
qinjraiqfitjw,rOrpjsuhreirevoh.ridr vuerOrvuwrpjterwi;raihaxcwohsrevuerod
evjrotxuhwr utrtcpbjaereirevjtjrjunevlcu.jt,revjnjr icxwrpjrhirxoyohsrdin
qjrohrurauyj,rpcerOrqcteraihtowjnridrpcoxwohsrurxoeexjrvcerohruhrifjh
fxuajr voavrOrqosvertcnnichwr oevrur uxx,rutrOrvuwrwihjrvjnj,ruhwrtirqu.j
qztjxdrtjacnjrdniqr oxwrpjutetrinrqjh;rdinrOraihaxcwjw,rodrOrteuzjwr vjnj
Or ut,rOrtvicxwrajneuohxzrihjreoqjrinrievjnrpjrpcnojwruxoyjk

 oevrevjtjrevicsvet,rOrnjtixyjwreirnjqiyjrqzrejherdniqrevjrfxuajr vjnjroe
teiiw,r voavr utrbcterchwjnrevjrvuhsohsrfnjaofoajridrevjrvoxx;ruhwr voav,
odroertvicxwrpjrtvu.jhrusuoh,r icxwrajneuohxzrduxxrcfihrqzrejhe;ruhwrO
tfjherevjre irhjmerwuzt,rpjohsrevjr19evruhwr20evridrUfnox,rohraihenoyohs
 vjnjruhwrvi reirnjqiyjrqzrvupoeueoihkrrEvjrdjunridrpjohsrt uxxi jwrcf
uxoyjrquwjrqjrevuerOrhjyjnrtxjferohrlcoje;ruhwrzjerevjruffnjvjhtoihrid
xzohsrupniuwr oeviceruhzrdjhajr utruxqiterjlcuxreiroe;rpcerteoxx,r vjhrO
xii.jwrupice,ruhwrtu rvi rjyjnzevohsr utrfcerohrinwjn,rvi rfxjutuhexz
aihajuxjwrOr ut,ruhwrvi rtudjrdniqrwuhsjn,roerquwjrqjryjnzrxiuevrei
njqiyjkrrOhrevjrqjuheoqj,roeriaacnnjwreirqjrevueroer icxwrnjlconjruryute
wjuxridreoqjrdinrqjreirwirevot,ruhwrevuerOrqcterpjraihejhejwreiryjhecnj
 vjnjrOr ut,reoxxrOrvuwrdinqjwrurauqfrdinrqztjxd,ruhwrvuwrtjacnjwroerti
utreirnjqiyjreiroekrrTir oevrevotrnjtixceoihrOraiqfitjwrqztjxdrdinru
eoqj,ruhwrnjtixyjwrevuerOr icxwrsireir in.r oevruxxrtfjjwreirpcoxwrqjru
 uxxr oevrfoxjtruhwraupxjt,r&ak,rohruraonaxj,rutrpjdinj,ruhwrtjerqzrejhe
cfrohroer vjhroer utrdohotvjw;rpcerevuerOr icxwryjhecnjreirteuzr vjnjrO
 utreoxxroer utrdohotvjw,ruhwrdoereirnjqiyjkrrEvotr utrevjr21tek

_Ufnox_r22k—EvjrhjmerqinhohsrOrpjsohreiraihtowjnridrqjuhtreirfcerevot
njtixyjroheirjmjaceoih;rpcerOr utruerursnjuerxittrupicerqzreiixtkrrOrvuw
evnjjrxunsjrumjt,ruhwrupchwuhajridrvueavjetr(dinr jraunnojwrevjrvueavjet
dinrenuddoar oevrevjrOhwouht);rpcer oevrqcavraviffohsruhwraceeohsr.hieez
vunwr iiw,revjzr jnjruxxrdcxxridrhieavjt,ruhwrwcxx;ruhwrevicsvrOrvuwru
snohwteihj,rOraicxwrhierecnhroeruhwrsnohwrqzreiixtreiikrrEvotraiterqjrut
qcavrevicsverutrurteuejtquhr icxwrvuyjrpjtei jwrcfihrursnuhwrfioherid
fixoeoat,rinrurbcwsjrcfihrevjrxodjruhwrwjuevridrurquhkrrUerxjhsevrO
aihenoyjwrur vjjxr oevrurtenohs,reirecnhroer oevrqzrdiie,revuerOrqosve
vuyjrpievrqzrvuhwtruerxopjnezkrr_Hiej_k—Orvuwrhjyjnrtjjhruhzrtcavrevohs
ohrJhsxuhw,rinruerxjute,rhiereireu.jrhieoajrvi roer utrwihj,revicsvrtohaj
Orvuyjriptjnyjw,roerotryjnzraiqqihrevjnj;rpjtowjtrevue,rqzrsnohwteihjr ut
yjnzrxunsjruhwrvjuyzkrrEvotrquavohjraiterqjrurdcxxr jj.’tr in.reirpnohs
oereirfjndjaeoihk

_Ufnox_r28,r29k—Evjtjre ir vixjrwuztrOreii.rcfrohrsnohwohsrqzreiixt,rqz
quavohjrdinrecnhohsrqzrsnohwteihjrfjndinqohsryjnzr jxxk

_Ufnox_r30k—Vuyohsrfjnajoyjwrqzrpnjuwrvuwrpjjhrxi rursnjuer voxj,rhi rO
eii.rurtcnyjzridroe,ruhwrnjwcajwrqztjxdreirihjrpotacoerau.jrurwuz,r voav
quwjrqzrvjuneryjnzrvjuyzk

_Quz_r1k—Ohrevjrqinhohs,rxii.ohsrei unwtrevjrtjurtowj,revjreowjrpjohs
xi ,rOrtu rtiqjevohsrxojrihrevjrtvinjrpossjnrevuhrinwohunz,ruhwroerxii.jw
xo.jruraut.;r vjhrOrauqjreiroe,rOrdichwrurtquxxrpunnjx,ruhwre irinrevnjj
fojajtridrevjr nja.ridrevjrtvof,r voavr jnjrwnoyjhrihrtvinjrpzrevjrxuej
vcnnoauhj;ruhwrxii.ohsrei unwtrevjr nja.roetjxd,rOrevicsveroertjjqjwrei
xojrvosvjnriceridrevjr uejnrevuhroerctjwreirwikrrOrjmuqohjwrevjrpunnjx
 voavr utrwnoyjhrihrtvinj,ruhwrtiihrdichwroer utrurpunnjxridrschfi wjn;
pceroervuwreu.jhr uejn,ruhwrevjrfi wjnr utrau.jwrutrvunwrutrurteihj;
vi jyjn,rOrnixxjwroerdunevjnrihrtvinjrdinrevjrfnjtjhe,ruhwr jherihrcfih
evjrtuhwt,rutrhjunrutrOraicxwreirevjr nja.ridrevjrtvof,reirxii.rdinrqinjk




AVUFEJNrYO—OXXrUHWrAIHTAOJHAJ-TENOA.JH


 vjhrOrauqjrwi hreirevjrtvofrOrdichwroertenuhsjxzrnjqiyjwkrrEvj
dinjautexj,r voavrxuzrpjdinjrpcnojwrohrtuhw,r utrvjuyjwrcfruerxjutertom
djje,ruhwrevjrtejnh,r voavr utrpni.jrohrfojajtruhwrfunejwrdniqrevjrnjte
pzrevjrdinajridrevjrtju,rtiihrudejnrOrvuwrxjderncqqusohsrvjn,r utreittjw
utroer jnjrcf,ruhwrauterihrihjrtowj;ruhwrevjrtuhwr utrevni hrtirvosvrih
evuertowjrhjmervjnrtejnh,revuer vjnjutrevjnjr utrursnjuerfxuajridr uejn
pjdinj,rtirevuerOraicxwrhieraiqjr oevohrurlcunejnridrurqoxjridrevjr nja.
 oevicert oqqohsrOraicxwrhi r ux.rlcoejrcfreirvjnr vjhrevjreowjr utricek
Or utrtcnfnotjwr oevrevotruerdonte,rpcertiihraihaxcwjwroerqcterpjrwihjrpz
evjrjunevlcu.j;ruhwrutrpzrevotryoixjhajrevjrtvofr utrqinjrpni.jrifjhrevuh
dinqjnxz,rtirquhzrevohstrauqjrwuoxzrihrtvinj,r voavrevjrtjurvuwrxiitjhjw,
uhwr voavrevjr ohwtruhwr uejnrnixxjwrpzrwjsnjjtreirevjrxuhwk

Evotr vixxzrwoyjnejwrqzrevicsvetrdniqrevjrwjtoshridrnjqiyohsrqz
vupoeueoih,ruhwrOrpctojwrqztjxdrqosveoxz,revuerwuzrjtfjaouxxz,roh
tjunavohsr vjevjnrOraicxwrqu.jruhzr uzroheirevjrtvof;rpcerOrdichwrhievohs
 utreirpjrjmfjaejwridrevuer.ohw,rdinruxxrevjrohtowjridrevjrtvofr ut
avi.jwrcfr oevrtuhwkrrVi jyjn,rutrOrvuwrxjunhjwrhiereirwjtfuonrid
uhzevohs,rOrnjtixyjwreirfcxxrjyjnzevohsreirfojajtrevuerOraicxwridrevj
tvof,raihaxcwohsrevuerjyjnzevohsrOraicxwrsjerdniqrvjnr icxwrpjridrtiqj
ctjrinrievjnreirqjk

_Quz_r3k—Orpjsuhr oevrqzrtu ,ruhwracerurfojajridrurpjuqrevnicsv,r voavrO
evicsvervjxwrtiqjridrevjrcffjnrfunerinrlcunejn-wja.reisjevjn,ruhwr vjhrO
vuwraceroerevnicsv,rOraxjunjwru uzrevjrtuhwrutr jxxrutrOraicxwrdniqrevj
towjr voavrxuzrvosvjte;rpcerevjreowjraiqohsroh,rOr utripxosjwreirsoyj
iyjnrdinrevuereoqjk

_Quz_r4k—Or jheru-dotvohs,rpceraucsverhierihjrdotvrevuerOrwcnterjuerid,
eoxxrOr utr junzridrqzrtfine;r vjh,rbctersiohsreirxjuyjridd,rOraucsveru
zichsrwixfvohkrrOrvuwrquwjrqjrurxihsrxohjridrtiqjrnifj-zunh,rpcerOrvuwrhi
vii.t;rzjerOrdnjlcjhexzraucsverdotvrjhicsv,rutrqcavrutrOraunjwreirjue;
uxxr voavrOrwnojwrohrevjrtch,ruhwruejrevjqrwnzk

_Quz_r5k— in.jwrihrevjr nja.;raceruhievjnrpjuqrutchwjn,ruhwrpnicsverevnjj
snjuerdonrfxuh.triddrdniqrevjrwja.t,r voavrOreojwreisjevjn,ruhwrquwjrei
dxiuerihrtvinjr vjhrevjreowjridrdxiiwrauqjrihk

_Quz_r6k— in.jwrihrevjr nja.;rsiertjyjnuxronihrpixetriceridrvjnruhwrievjn
fojajtridronih in.krr in.jwryjnzrvunw,ruhwrauqjrviqjryjnzrqcavreonjw,ruhw
vuwrevicsvetridrsoyohsroeriyjnk

_Quz_r7k— jhereirevjr nja.rusuoh,rhier oevruhrohejhereir in.,rpcerdichw
evjr josveridrevjr nja.rvuwrpni.jroetjxdrwi h,revjrpjuqtrpjohsrace;revue
tjyjnuxrfojajtridrevjrtvofrtjjqjwreirxojrxiitj,ruhwrevjrohtowjridrevj
vixwrxuzrtirifjhrevuerOraicxwrtjjroheiroe;rpceroer utruxqiterdcxxrid
 uejnruhwrtuhwk

_Quz_r8k— jhereirevjr nja.,ruhwraunnojwruhronihrani reir njhavrcfrevj
wja.,r voavrxuzrhi rlcoejraxjunridrevjr uejnrinrtuhwkrrOr njhavjwrifjh
e irfxuh.t,ruhwrpnicsverevjqrihrtvinjruxtir oevrevjreowjkrrOrxjderevj
onihrani rohrevjr nja.rdinrhjmerwuzk

_Quz_r9k— jhereirevjr nja.,ruhwr oevrevjrani rquwjr uzroheirevjrpiwzrid
evjr nja.,ruhwrdjxertjyjnuxraut.t,ruhwrxiitjhjwrevjqr oevrevjrani ,rpce
aicxwrhierpnju.revjqrcfkrrOrdjxeruxtirurnixxridrJhsxotvrxjuw,ruhwraicxw
teonroe,rpceroer utreiirvjuyzreirnjqiyjk

_Quz_r10–14k— jherjyjnzrwuzreirevjr nja.;ruhwrsierursnjuerquhzrfojajtrid
eoqpjn,ruhwrpiunwt,rinrfxuh.,ruhwre irinrevnjjrvchwnjw josveridronihk

_Quz_r15k—Oraunnojwre irvueavjet,reirenzrodrOraicxwrhieracerurfojajridd
evjrnixxridrxjuwrpzrfxuaohsrevjrjwsjridrihjrvueavjeruhwrwnoyohsroer oev
evjrievjn;rpcerutroerxuzrupicerurdiieruhwrurvuxdrohrevjr uejn,rOraicxw
hierqu.jruhzrpxi reirwnoyjrevjrvueavjek

_Quz_r16k—Oervuwrpxi hrvunwrohrevjrhosve,ruhwrevjr nja.ruffjunjwrqinj
pni.jhrpzrevjrdinajridrevjr uejn;rpcerOrteuzjwrtirxihsrohrevjr iiwt,rei
sjerfosjihtrdinrdiiw,revuerevjreowjrfnjyjhejwrqzrsiohsreirevjr nja.revue
wuzk

_Quz_r17k—Ortu rtiqjrfojajtridrevjr nja.rpxi hrihrtvinj,ruerursnjue
woteuhaj,rhjunre irqoxjtriddrqj,rpcernjtixyjwreirtjjr vuerevjzr jnj,ruhw
dichwroer utrurfojajridrevjrvjuw,rpcereiirvjuyzrdinrqjreirpnohsru uzk

_Quz_r24k—Jyjnzrwuz,reirevotrwuz,rOr in.jwrihrevjr nja.;ruhwr oevrvunw
xupicnrOrxiitjhjwrtiqjrevohstrtirqcavr oevrevjrani ,revuerevjrdonte
dxi ohsreowjrtjyjnuxraut.trdxiuejwrice,ruhwre iridrevjrtjuqjh’travjtet;
pcerevjr ohwrpxi ohsrdniqrevjrtvinj,rhievohsrauqjreirxuhwrevuerwuzrpce
fojajtridreoqpjn,ruhwrurvistvjuw,r voavrvuwrtiqjrPnugoxrfin.rohroe;rpce
evjrtuxer uejnruhwrevjrtuhwrvuwrtfioxjwroekrrOraiheohcjwrevotr in.rjyjnz
wuzreirevjr15evridrBchj,rjmajferevjreoqjrhjajttunzreirsjerdiiw,r voavrO
ux uztruffiohejw,rwcnohsrevotrfuneridrqzrjqfxizqjhe,reirpjr vjhrevjreowj
 utrcf,revuerOrqosverpjrnjuwzr vjhroer utrjppjwrice;ruhwrpzrevotreoqjrO
vuwrsiereoqpjnruhwrfxuh.ruhwronih in.rjhicsvreirvuyjrpcoxerursiiwrpiue,
odrOrvuwr.hi hrvi ;ruhwruxtirOrsie,ruertjyjnuxreoqjtruhwrohrtjyjnux
fojajt,rhjunrihjrvchwnjw josveridrevjrtvjjerxjuwk

_Bchj_r16k—Siohsrwi hreirevjrtjutowj,rOrdichwrurxunsjreineiotjrinrecnexjk
Evotr utrevjrdonterOrvuwrtjjh,r voav,roertjjqt,r utrihxzrqzrqotdinechj,
hieruhzrwjdjaeridrevjrfxuaj,rinrtaunaoez;rdinrvuwrOrvuffjhjwreirpjrihrevj
ievjnrtowjridrevjrotxuhw,rOrqosvervuyjrvuwrvchwnjwtridrevjqrjyjnzrwuz,rut
Ordichwrudejn unwt;rpcerfjnvuftrvuwrfuowrwjunrjhicsvrdinrevjqk

_Bchj_r17k—Ortfjherohraii.ohsrevjrecnexjkrrOrdichwrohrvjnrevnjj-tainj
jsst;ruhwrvjnrdxjtvr utreirqj,ruerevuereoqj,revjrqitertuyicnzruhw
fxjutuherevuerjyjnrOreutejwrohrqzrxodj,rvuyohsrvuwrhirdxjtv,rpceridrsiuet
uhwrdi xt,rtohajrOrxuhwjwrohrevotrvinnowrfxuajk

_Bchj_r18k—Nuohjwruxxrwuz,ruhwrOrteuzjwr oevohkrrOrevicsveruerevotreoqj
evjrnuohrdjxeraixw,ruhwrOr utrtiqjevohsravoxxz;r voavrOr.hj r utrhie
ctcuxrohrevuerxueoecwjk

_Bchj_r19k—Yjnzroxx,ruhwrtvoyjnohs,rutrodrevjr juevjnrvuwrpjjhraixwk

_Bchj_r20k—Hirnjteruxxrhosve;ryoixjherfuohtrohrqzrvjuw,ruhwrdjyjnotvk

_Bchj_r21k—Yjnzroxx;rdnosvejwruxqitereirwjuevr oevrevjruffnjvjhtoihtrid
qzrtuwraihwoeoih—eirpjrtoa.,ruhwrhirvjxfkrrFnuzjwreirSiw,rdinrevjrdonte
eoqjrtohajrevjrteinqriddrVcxx,rpcertaunajr.hj r vuerOrtuow,rinr vz,rqz
evicsvetrpjohsruxxraihdctjwk

_Bchj_r22k—Urxoeexjrpjeejn;rpcerchwjnrwnjuwdcxruffnjvjhtoihtridrtoa.hjttk

_Bchj_r23k—Yjnzrpuwrusuoh;raixwruhwrtvoyjnohs,ruhwrevjhruryoixjhe
vjuwuavjk

_Bchj_r24k—Qcavrpjeejnk

_Bchj_r25k—Uhruscjryjnzryoixjhe;revjrdoervjxwrqjrtjyjhrvicnt;raixwrdoe
uhwrvie,r oevrduohert juetrudejnroek

_Bchj_r26k—Pjeejn;ruhwrvuyohsrhiryoaecuxtreirjue,reii.rqzrsch,rpcerdichw
qztjxdryjnzr ju.krrVi jyjn,rOr.oxxjwrurtvj-siue,ruhwr oevrqcavrwoddoacxez
sieroerviqj,ruhwrpnioxjwrtiqjridroe,ruhwruej,rOr icxwrduohrvuyjrtej jw
oe,ruhwrquwjrtiqjrpniev,rpcervuwrhirfiek

_Bchj_r27k—EvjruscjrusuohrtiryoixjherevuerOrxuzru-pjwruxxrwuz,ruhw
hjoevjnruejrhinrwnuh.krrOr utrnjuwzreirfjnotvrdinrevonte;rpcertir ju.,rO
vuwrhiertenjhsevreirteuhwrcf,rinreirsjerqztjxdruhzr uejnreirwnoh.k
FnuzjwreirSiwrusuoh,rpcer utrxosve-vjuwjw;ruhwr vjhrOr utrhie,rOr utrti
oshinuherevuerOr.hj rhier vuereirtuz;rihxzrOrxuzruhwranojw,r“Xinw,rxii.
cfihrqj!rrXinw,rfoezrqj!rrXinw,rvuyjrqjnazrcfihrqj!”rrOrtcffitjrOrwow
hievohsrjxtjrdinre irinrevnjjrvicnt;reoxx,revjrdoer junohsridd,rOrdjxx
utxjjf,ruhwrwowrhier u.jreoxxrdunrohrevjrhosvekrr vjhrOru i.j,rOrdichw
qztjxdrqcavrnjdnjtvjw,rpcer ju.,ruhwrjmajjwohsrevontezkrrVi jyjn,rutrO
vuwrhir uejnrohrqzrvupoeueoih,rOr utrdinajwreirxojreoxxrqinhohs,ruhwr jhe
eirtxjjfrusuohkrrOhrevotrtjaihwrtxjjfrOrvuwrevotrejnnopxjrwnjuq:rO
evicsverevuerOr utrtoeeohsrihrevjrsnichw,rihrevjricetowjridrqzr uxx,
 vjnjrOrtuer vjhrevjrteinqrpxj rudejnrevjrjunevlcu.j,ruhwrevuerOrtu ru
quhrwjtajhwrdniqrursnjuerpxua.raxicw,rohrurpnosverdxuqjridrdonj,ruhw
xosvercfihrevjrsnichwkrrVjr utruxxriyjnrutrpnosverutrurdxuqj,rtirevuerO
aicxwrpcerbcterpjunreirxii.rei unwtrvoq;rvotraichejhuhajr utrqite
ohjmfnjttopxzrwnjuwdcx,roqfittopxjrdinr inwtreirwjtanopjkrr vjhrvj
tejffjwrcfihrevjrsnichwr oevrvotrdjje,rOrevicsverevjrjunevrenjqpxjw,rbcte
utroervuwrwihjrpjdinjrohrevjrjunevlcu.j,ruhwruxxrevjruonrxii.jw,reirqz
uffnjvjhtoih,rutrodroervuwrpjjhrdoxxjwr oevrdxutvjtridrdonjkrrVjr utrhi
tiihjnrxuhwjwrcfihrevjrjunev,rpcervjrqiyjwrdin unwrei unwtrqj,r oevru
xihsrtfjunrinr jufihrohrvotrvuhw,reir.oxxrqj;ruhwr vjhrvjrauqjreiru
notohsrsnichw,ruertiqjrwoteuhaj,rvjrtfi.jreirqj—inrOrvjunwruryioajrti
ejnnopxjrevueroerotroqfittopxjreirjmfnjttrevjrejnninridroekrrUxxrevuerO
auhrtuzrOrchwjnteiiwr utrevot:r“Tjjohsruxxrevjtjrevohstrvuyjrhierpnicsve
evjjreirnjfjheuhaj,rhi revicrtvuxerwoj;”ruer voavr inwt,rOrevicsvervj
xodejwrcfrevjrtfjunrevuer utrohrvotrvuhwreir.oxxrqjk

Hirihjrevuertvuxxrjyjnrnjuwrevotruaaicher oxxrjmfjaerevuerOrtvicxwrpj
upxjreirwjtanopjrevjrvinnintridrqzrticxruerevotrejnnopxjryotoihkrrOrqjuh,
evuerjyjhr voxjroer utrurwnjuq,rOrjyjhrwnjuqjwridrevitjrvinnintkrrHinrot
oeruhzrqinjrfittopxjreirwjtanopjrevjroqfnjttoihrevuernjquohjwrcfihrqz
qohwr vjhrOru u.jw,ruhwrdichwroer utrpcerurwnjuqk

Orvuw,ruxut!rhirwoyohjr.hi xjwsjkrr vuerOrvuwrnjajoyjwrpzrevjrsiiw
ohtencaeoihridrqzrduevjnr utrevjhr inhricerpzruhrchohejnncfejwrtjnojt,
dinrjosverzjunt,ridrtjudunohsr oa.jwhjtt,ruhwruraihteuheraihyjntueoih
 oevrhihjrpcertcavrutr jnj,rxo.jrqztjxd,r oa.jwruhwrfniduhjreirevjrxute
wjsnjjkrrOrwirhiernjqjqpjnrevuerOrvuw,rohruxxrevuereoqj,rihjrevicsverevue
tirqcavrutrejhwjwrjoevjnreirxii.ohsrcf unwtrei unwtrSiw,rinroh unwt
ei unwtrurnjdxjaeoihrcfihrqzri hr uzt;rpcerurajneuohrtecfowoezridrticx,
 oevicerwjtonjridrsiiw,rinraihtaojhajridrjyox,rvuwrjheonjxzriyjn vjxqjw
qj;ruhwrOr utruxxrevuerevjrqitervunwjhjw,rchevoh.ohs,r oa.jwranjuecnj
uqihsricnraiqqihrtuoxintrauhrpjrtcffitjwreirpj;rhiervuyohsrevjrxjute
tjhtj,rjoevjnridrevjrdjunridrSiwrohrwuhsjn,rinridrevuh.dcxhjttreirSiwroh
wjxoyjnuhajk

Ohrevjrnjxueohsr vuerotruxnjuwzrfuteridrqzrteinz,revotr oxxrpjrevjrqinj
jutoxzrpjxojyjwr vjhrOrtvuxxruww,revuerevnicsvruxxrevjryunojezrid
qotjnojtrevuervuwreirevotrwuzrpjduxxjhrqj,rOrhjyjnrvuwrtirqcavrutrihj
evicsveridroerpjohsrevjrvuhwridrSiw,rinrevueroer utrurbcterfchotvqjherdin
qzrtoh—qzrnjpjxxoictrpjvuyoicnrusuohterqzrduevjn—inrqzrfnjtjhertoht,
 voavr jnjrsnjue—inrtirqcavrutrurfchotvqjherdinrevjrsjhjnuxraicntjridrqz
 oa.jwrxodjkrr vjhrOr utrihrevjrwjtfjnuejrjmfjwoeoihrihrevjrwjtjnertvinjt
idrUdnoau,rOrhjyjnrvuwrtirqcavrutrihjrevicsveridr vuer icxwrpjaiqjridrqj,
inrihjr otvreirSiwreirwonjaerqjr voevjnrOrtvicxwrsi,rinreir.jjfrqjrdniq
evjrwuhsjnr voavruffunjhexzrtcnnichwjwrqj,rutr jxxrdniqryinuaoict
anjuecnjtrutrancjxrtuyusjtkrrPcerOr utrqjnjxzrevicsvexjttridrurSiwrinru
Fniyowjhaj,ruaejwrxo.jrurqjnjrpncej,rdniqrevjrfnohaofxjtridrhuecnj,ruhw
pzrevjrwoaeuejtridraiqqihrtjhtjrihxz,ruhw,rohwjjw,rvunwxzrevuekrr vjhrO
 utrwjxoyjnjwruhwreu.jhrcfruertjurpzrevjrFinecsuxraufeuoh,r jxxrctjw,ruhw
wjuxerbctexzruhwrvihicnupxzr oev,rutr jxxrutravunoeupxz,rOrvuwrhierevj
xjuterevuh.dcxhjttrohrqzrevicsvetkrr vjh,rusuoh,rOr utrtvof nja.jw,
ncohjw,ruhwrohrwuhsjnridrwni hohsrihrevotrotxuhw,rOr utrutrdunrdniq
njqintj,rinrxii.ohsrihroerutrurbcwsqjhekrrOrihxzrtuowreirqztjxdridejh,
evuerOr utruhrchdinechuejrwis,ruhwrpinhreirpjrux uztrqotjnupxjk

Oerotrencj,r vjhrOrsierihrtvinjrdontervjnj,ruhwrdichwruxxrqzrtvof’tranj 
wni hjwruhwrqztjxdrtfunjw,rOr utrtcnfnotjwr oevrur.ohwridrjateutz,ruhw
tiqjrenuhtfinetridrticx,r voav,rvuwrevjrsnuajridrSiwruttotejw,rqosvervuyj
aiqjrcfreirencjrevuh.dcxhjtt;rpceroerjhwjwr vjnjroerpjsuh,rohrurqjnj
aiqqihrdxosveridrbiz,rin,rutrOrquzrtuz,rpjohsrsxuwrOr utruxoyj,r oevice
evjrxjuternjdxjaeoihrcfihrevjrwoteohscotvjwrsiiwhjttridrevjrvuhwr voav
vuwrfnjtjnyjwrqj,ruhwrvuwrtohsxjwrqjricereirpjrfnjtjnyjwr vjhruxxrevj
njter jnjrwjtenizjw,rinruhrohlconzr vzrFniyowjhajrvuwrpjjhrevctrqjnaodcx
cheirqjkrrJyjhrbcterevjrtuqjraiqqihrtineridrbizr voavrtjuqjhrsjhjnuxxz
vuyj,rudejnrevjzrunjrsiertudjrutvinjrdniqrurtvof nja.,r voavrevjzrwni h
uxxrohrevjrhjmerpi xridrfchav,ruhwrdinsjeruxqiterutrtiihrutroerotriyjn;
uhwruxxrevjrnjteridrqzrxodjr utrxo.jroekrrJyjhr vjhrOr utrudejn unwt,rih
wcjraihtowjnueoih,rquwjrtjhtopxjridrqzraihwoeoih,rvi rOr utrauterihrevot
wnjuwdcxrfxuaj,riceridrevjrnjuavridrvcquhr.ohw,riceridruxxrvifjrid
njxojd,rinrfnitfjaeridrnjwjqfeoih,rutrtiihrutrOrtu rpcerurfnitfjaerid
xoyohsruhwrevuerOrtvicxwrhierteunyjruhwrfjnotvrdinrvchsjn,ruxxrevjrtjhtj
idrqzruddxoaeoihr injridd;ruhwrOrpjsuhreirpjryjnzrjutz,ruffxojwrqztjxdrei
evjr in.trfnifjnrdinrqzrfnjtjnyueoihruhwrtcffxz,ruhwr utrdunrjhicsvrdniq
pjohsruddxoaejwruerqzraihwoeoih,rutrurbcwsqjherdniqrvjuyjh,rinrutrevj
vuhwridrSiwrusuohterqj:revjtjr jnjrevicsvetr voavryjnzrtjxwiqrjhejnjwrqz
vjuwk

Evjrsni ohsrcfridrevjrainh,rutrotrvohejwrohrqzrBicnhux,rvuwruerdontertiqj
xoeexjrohdxcjhajrcfihrqj,ruhwrpjsuhreiruddjaerqjr oevrtjnoicthjtt,rut
xihsrutrOrevicsveroervuwrtiqjevohsrqonuacxictrohroe;rpcerutrtiihrutrjyjn
evuerfuneridrevjrevicsver utrnjqiyjw,ruxxrevjroqfnjttoihrevuer utrnuotjw
dniqroer injriddruxti,rutrOrvuyjrhiejwruxnjuwzkrrJyjhrevjrjunevlcu.j,
evicsvrhievohsraicxwrpjrqinjrejnnopxjrohroetrhuecnj,rinrqinjroqqjwouejxz
wonjaeohsreirevjrohyotopxjrFi jnr voavruxihjrwonjaetrtcavrevohst,rzjerhi
tiihjnr utrevjrdonterdnosveriyjn,rpcerevjroqfnjttoihroervuwrquwjr jheridd
uxtikrrOrvuwrhirqinjrtjhtjridrSiwrinrVotrbcwsqjhet—qcavrxjttridrevj
fnjtjheruddxoaeoihridrqzraonacqteuhajtrpjohsrdniqrVotrvuhw—evuhrodrOrvuw
pjjhrohrevjrqiterfnitfjnictraihwoeoihridrxodjkrrPcerhi ,r vjhrOrpjsuhrei
pjrtoa.,ruhwrurxjotcnjxzryoj ridrevjrqotjnojtridrwjuevrauqjreirfxuaj
oetjxdrpjdinjrqj;r vjhrqzrtfonoetrpjsuhreirtoh.rchwjnrevjrpcnwjhridru
tenihsrwotejqfjn,ruhwrhuecnjr utrjmvuctejwr oevrevjryoixjhajridrevj
djyjn;raihtaojhaj,revuervuwrtxjfertirxihs,rpjsuhreiru u.j,ruhwrOrpjsuhrei
njfniuavrqztjxdr oevrqzrfuterxodj,rohr voavrOrvuwrtirjyowjhexz,rpz
chaiqqihr oa.jwhjtt,rfniyi.jwrevjrbcteoajridrSiwreirxuzrqjrchwjnrchaiqqih
teni.jt,ruhwreirwjuxr oevrqjrohrtiryohwoaeoyjrurquhhjnkrrEvjtj
njdxjaeoihtriffnjttjwrqjrdinrevjrtjaihwrinrevonwrwuzridrqzrwotejqfjn;ruhw
ohrevjryoixjhaj,rutr jxxridrevjrdjyjnrutridrevjrwnjuwdcxrnjfniuavjtridrqz
aihtaojhaj,rjmeinejwrtiqjr inwtrdniqrqjrxo.jrfnuzohsreirSiw,revicsvrO
auhhiertuzrevjzr jnjrjoevjnrurfnuzjnrueejhwjwr oevrwjtonjtrinr oevrvifjt:
oer utrnuevjnrevjryioajridrqjnjrdnosveruhwrwotenjttkrrQzrevicsvetr jnj
aihdctjw,revjraihyoaeoihtrsnjuercfihrqzrqohw,ruhwrevjrvinninridrwzohsroh
tcavrurqotjnupxjraihwoeoihrnuotjwryuficntroheirqzrvjuwr oevrevjrqjnj
uffnjvjhtoiht;ruhwrohrevjtjrvcnnojtridrqzrticxrOr.hj rhier vuerqzreihscj
qosverjmfnjttkrrPceroer utrnuevjnrjmaxuqueoih,rtcavrut,r“Xinw,r vueru
qotjnupxjranjuecnjruqrO!rrOdrOrtvicxwrpjrtoa.,rOrtvuxxrajneuohxzrwojrdin
 uheridrvjxf;ruhwr vuer oxxrpjaiqjridrqj!”rrEvjhrevjrejuntrpcntericerid
qzrjzjt,ruhwrOraicxwrtuzrhirqinjrdinrursiiwr voxjkrrOhrevotrohejnyuxrevj
siiwruwyoajridrqzrduevjnrauqjreirqzrqohw,ruhwrfnjtjhexzrvotrfnjwoaeoih,
 voavrOrqjheoihjwruerevjrpjsohhohsridrevotrteinz—yogkrevuerodrOrwowreu.j
evotrdiixotvrtejf,rSiwr icxwrhierpxjttrqj,ruhwrOr icxwrvuyjrxjotcnj
vjnjudejnreirnjdxjaercfihrvuyohsrhjsxjaejwrvotraichtjxr vjhrevjnjrqosve
pjrhihjreiruttoterohrqzrnjaiyjnzkrr“Hi ,”rtuowrO,ruxicw,r“qzrwjun
duevjn’tr inwtrunjraiqjreirfutt;rSiw’trbcteoajrvutriyjneu.jhrqj,ruhwrO
vuyjrhihjreirvjxfrinrvjunrqjkrrOrnjbjaejwrevjryioajridrFniyowjhaj,r voav
vuwrqjnaodcxxzrfcerqjrohrurfitecnjrinrteueoihridrxodjr vjnjohrOrqosve
vuyjrpjjhrvuffzruhwrjutz;rpcerOr icxwrhjoevjnrtjjroerqztjxdrhinrxjunhrei
.hi revjrpxjttohsridroerdniqrqzrfunjhetkrrOrxjderevjqreirqicnhriyjnrqz
dixxz,ruhwrhi rOruqrxjdereirqicnhrchwjnrevjraihtjlcjhajtridroekrrOrupctjw
evjonrvjxfruhwruttoteuhaj,r vir icxwrvuyjrxodejwrqjrohrevjr inxw,ruhw
 icxwrvuyjrquwjrjyjnzevohsrjutzreirqj;ruhwrhi rOrvuyjrwoddoacxeojtrei
tencssxjr oev,reiirsnjuerdinrjyjhrhuecnjroetjxdreirtcffine,ruhwrhi
uttoteuhaj,rhirvjxf,rhiraiqdine,rhiruwyoajk”rrEvjhrOranojwrice,r“Xinw,rpj
qzrvjxf,rdinrOruqrohrsnjuerwotenjttk”rrEvotr utrevjrdonterfnuzjn,rodrO
quzrauxxroerti,revuerOrvuwrquwjrdinrquhzrzjuntk

PcereirnjecnhreirqzrBicnhuxk

_Bchj_r28k—Vuyohsrpjjhrtiqj vuernjdnjtvjwr oevrevjrtxjjfrOrvuwrvuw,ruhw
evjrdoerpjohsrjheonjxzridd,rOrsiercf;ruhwrevicsvrevjrdnosveruhwrejnninrid
qzrwnjuqr utryjnzrsnjue,rzjerOraihtowjnjwrevuerevjrdoeridrevjruscjr icxw
njecnhrusuohrevjrhjmerwuz,ruhwrhi r utrqzreoqjreirsjertiqjevohsrei
njdnjtvruhwrtcffinerqztjxdr vjhrOrtvicxwrpjroxx;ruhwrevjrdonterevohsrO
wow,rOrdoxxjwrurxunsjrtlcunjrautj-pieexjr oevr uejn,ruhwrtjeroercfihrqz
eupxj,rohrnjuavridrqzrpjw;ruhwreireu.jriddrevjravoxxrinruscotv
wotfitoeoihridrevjr uejn,rOrfcerupicerurlcunejnridrurfoheridrncqroheiroe,
uhwrqomjwrevjqreisjevjnkrrEvjhrOrsierqjrurfojajridrevjrsiue’trdxjtvruhw
pnioxjwroerihrevjraiuxt,rpceraicxwrjueryjnzrxoeexjkrrOr ux.jwrupice,rpce
 utryjnzr ju.,ruhwr oevuxryjnzrtuwruhwrvjuyz-vjunejwrchwjnrurtjhtjridrqz
qotjnupxjraihwoeoih,rwnjuwohs,revjrnjecnhridrqzrwotejqfjnrevjrhjmerwuzk
UerhosverOrquwjrqzrtcffjnridrevnjjridrevjrecnexj’trjsst,r voavrOrniutejw
ohrevjrutvjt,ruhwruej,rutr jrauxxroe,rohrevjrtvjxx,ruhwrevotr utrevj
donterpoeridrqjuerOrvuwrjyjnrut.jwrSiw’trpxjttohsrei,revuerOraicxw
njqjqpjn,rohrqzr vixjrxodjkrrUdejnrOrvuwrjuejhrOrenojwreir ux.,rpcerdichw
qztjxdrtir ju.revuerOraicxwrvunwxzraunnzrursch,rdinrOrhjyjnr jherice
 oevicerevue;rtirOr jherpcerurxoeexjr uz,ruhwrtuerwi hrcfihrevjrsnichw,
xii.ohsricercfihrevjrtju,r voavr utrbcterpjdinjrqj,ruhwryjnzrauxqruhw
tqiievkrrUtrOrtuervjnjrtiqjrtcavrevicsvetrutrevjtjriaacnnjwreirqj:r vue
otrevotrjunevruhwrtju,ridr voavrOrvuyjrtjjhrtirqcav?rr vjhajrotroe
fniwcajw?rrUhwr vueruqrO,ruhwruxxrevjrievjnranjuecnjtr oxwruhwreuqj,
vcquhruhwrpnceux?rr vjhajrunjr j?rrTcnjr jrunjruxxrquwjrpzrtiqjrtjanje
Fi jn,r virdinqjwrevjrjunevruhwrtju,revjruonruhwrt.zkrrUhwr virotrevue?
Evjhroerdixxi jwrqiterhuecnuxxz,roerotrSiwrevuervutrquwjruxxkrr jxx,rpce
evjhroerauqjrihrtenuhsjxz,rodrSiwrvutrquwjruxxrevjtjrevohst,rVjrscowjt
uhwrsiyjnhtrevjqruxx,ruhwruxxrevohstrevueraihajnhrevjq;rdinrevjrFi jn
evueraicxwrqu.jruxxrevohstrqcterajneuohxzrvuyjrfi jnreirscowjruhwrwonjae
evjqkrrOdrti,rhievohsrauhrvuffjhrohrevjrsnjueraonacoeridrVotr in.t,
joevjnr oevicerVotr.hi xjwsjrinruffioheqjhek

Uhwrodrhievohsrvuffjhtr oevicerVotr.hi xjwsj,rVjr.hi trevuerOruqrvjnj,
uhwruqrohrevotrwnjuwdcxraihwoeoih;ruhwrodrhievohsrvuffjhtr oevicerVot
uffioheqjhe,rVjrvutruffiohejwruxxrevotreirpjduxxrqjkrrHievohsriaacnnjwrei
qzrevicsvereiraihenuwoaeruhzridrevjtjraihaxctoiht,ruhwrevjnjdinjroe
njtejwrcfihrqjr oevrevjrsnjuejnrdinaj,revueroerqcterhjjwtrpjrevuerSiwrvuw
uffiohejwruxxrevotreirpjduxxrqj;revuerOr utrpnicsveroheirevotrqotjnupxj
aonacqteuhajrpzrVotrwonjaeoih,rVjrvuyohsrevjrtixjrfi jn,rhieridrqjrihxz,
pceridrjyjnzevohsrevuervuffjhjwrohrevjr inxwkrrOqqjwouejxzroerdixxi jw:
 vzrvutrSiwrwihjrevotreirqj?rr vuervuyjrOrwihjreirpjrevctrctjw?rrQz
aihtaojhajrfnjtjhexzravja.jwrqjrohrevuerohlconz,rutrodrOrvuwrpxutfvjqjw,
uhwrqjevicsveroertfi.jreirqjrxo.jruryioaj:r“ njeav!rwiter_evic_rut.r vue
evicrvuterwihj?rrXii.rpua.rcfihrurwnjuwdcxrqottfjherxodj,ruhwrut.revztjxd
 vuerevicrvuter_hie_rwihj?rrUt.,r vzrotroerevuerevicr jnerhierxihsrusi
wjtenizjw?rr vzr jnerevicrhierwni hjwrohrZunqicevrNiuwt;r.oxxjwrohrevj
dosver vjhrevjrtvofr utreu.jhrpzrevjrTuxxjjrquh-id- un;rwjyicnjwrpzrevj
 oxwrpjutetrihrevjraiuteridrUdnoau;rinrwni hjwr_vjnj_,r vjhruxxrevjranj 
fjnotvjwrpcerevztjxd?rrWiter_evic_rut.,r vuervuyjrOrwihj?”rrOr utrtenca.
wcqpr oevrevjtjrnjdxjaeoiht,rutrihjruteihotvjw,ruhwrvuwrhierur inwrei
tuz—hi,rhiereiruht jnreirqztjxd,rpcernitjrcfrfjhtoyjruhwrtuw,r ux.jwrpua.
eirqzrnjenjue,ruhwr jhercfriyjnrqzr uxx,rutrodrOrvuwrpjjhrsiohsreirpjw;
pcerqzrevicsvetr jnjrtuwxzrwotecnpjw,ruhwrOrvuwrhirohaxohueoihreirtxjjf;
tirOrtuerwi hrohrqzravuon,ruhwrxosvejwrqzrxuqf,rdinroerpjsuhreirpjrwun.k
Hi ,rutrevjruffnjvjhtoihridrevjrnjecnhridrqzrwotejqfjnrejnnodojwrqjryjnz
qcav,roeriaacnnjwreirqzrevicsverevuerevjrPnugoxouhtreu.jrhirfvztoarpce
evjonreipuaairdinruxqiteruxxrwotejqfjnt,ruhwrOrvuwrurfojajridrurnixxrid
eipuaairohrihjridrevjravjtet,r voavr utrlcoejracnjw,ruhwrtiqjruxtirevue
 utrsnjjh,ruhwrhierlcoejracnjwk

Or jhe,rwonjaejwrpzrVjuyjhrhirwicpe;rdinrohrevotravjterOrdichwruracnj
pievrdinrticxruhwrpiwzkrrOrifjhjwrevjravjte,ruhwrdichwr vuerOrxii.jwrdin,
evjreipuaai;ruhwrutrevjrdj rpii.trOrvuwrtuyjwrxuzrevjnjreii,rOreii.rice
ihjridrevjrPopxjtr voavrOrqjheoihjwrpjdinj,ruhwr voavreirevotreoqjrOrvuw
hierdichwrxjotcnjrinrohaxohueoihreirxii.roheikrrOrtuz,rOreii.roerice,ruhw
pnicsverpievrevueruhwrevjreipuaair oevrqjreirevjreupxjkrr vuerctjreirqu.j
idrevjreipuaairOr.hj rhie,rohrqzrwotejqfjn,rinr vjevjnroer utrsiiwrdinroe
inrhi:rpcerOrenojwrtjyjnuxrjmfjnoqjhetr oevroe,rutrodrOr utrnjtixyjwroe
tvicxwrvoerihjr uzrinrievjnkrrOrdontereii.rurfojajridrxjud,ruhwravj jwroe
ohrqzrqicev,r voav,rohwjjw,ruerdonteruxqitertecfjdojwrqzrpnuoh,revj
eipuaairpjohsrsnjjhruhwrtenihs,ruhwrevuerOrvuwrhierpjjhrqcavrctjwreik
EvjhrOreii.rtiqjruhwrtejjfjwroeruhrvicnrinre irohrtiqjrncq,ruhwrnjtixyjw
eireu.jrurwitjridroer vjhrOrxuzrwi h;ruhwrxutexz,rOrpcnhertiqjrcfihrurfuh
idraiuxt,ruhwrvjxwrqzrhitjraxitjriyjnrevjrtqi.jridroerutrxihsrutrOraicxw
pjunroe,rutr jxxrdinrevjrvjuerutruxqiterdinrtcddiaueoihkrrOhrevjrohejnyux
idrevotrifjnueoihrOreii.rcfrevjrPopxjruhwrpjsuhreirnjuw;rpcerqzrvjuwr ut
eiirqcavrwotecnpjwr oevrevjreipuaaireirpjunrnjuwohs,ruerxjuteruerevue
eoqj;rihxz,rvuyohsrifjhjwrevjrpii.rautcuxxz,revjrdonter inwtrevue
iaacnnjwreirqjr jnjrevjtj,r“AuxxrihrQjrohrevjrwuzridrenicpxj,ruhwrOr oxx
wjxoyjnrevjj,ruhwrevicrtvuxersxinodzrQjk”rrEvjtjr inwtr jnjryjnzruferei
qzrautj,ruhwrquwjrtiqjroqfnjttoihrcfihrqzrevicsvetruerevjreoqjridrnjuwohs
evjq,revicsvrhiertirqcavrutrevjzrwowrudejn unwt;rdin,rutrdinrpjohs
_wjxoyjnjw_,revjr inwrvuwrhirtichw,rutrOrquzrtuz,reirqj;revjrevohsr utrti
njqiej,rtiroqfittopxjrohrqzruffnjvjhtoihridrevohst,revuerOrpjsuhreirtuz,
utrevjravoxwnjhridrOtnujxrwowr vjhrevjzr jnjrfniqotjwrdxjtvreirjue,r“Auh
Siwrtfnjuwrureupxjrohrevjr oxwjnhjtt?”rtirOrpjsuhreirtuz,r“AuhrSiw
Voqtjxdrwjxoyjnrqjrdniqrevotrfxuaj?”rrUhwrutroer utrhierdinrquhzrzjunt
evueruhzrvifjtruffjunjw,revotrfnjyuoxjwryjnzridejhrcfihrqzrevicsvet;rpce,
vi jyjn,revjr inwtrquwjrursnjueroqfnjttoihrcfihrqj,ruhwrOrqctjwrcfihrevjq
yjnzridejhkrrOersnj rhi rxuej,ruhwrevjreipuaairvuw,rutrOrtuow,rwigjwrqz
vjuwrtirqcavrevuerOrohaxohjwreirtxjjf;rtirOrxjderqzrxuqfrpcnhohsrohrevj
auyj,rxjterOrtvicxwr uheruhzevohsrohrevjrhosve,ruhwr jhereirpjwkrrPce
pjdinjrOrxuzrwi h,rOrwowr vuerOrhjyjnrvuwrwihjrohruxxrqzrxodj—Or.hjjxjw
wi h,ruhwrfnuzjwreirSiwreirdcxdoxrevjrfniqotjreirqj,revuerodrOrauxxjw
cfihrVoqrohrevjrwuzridrenicpxj,rVjr icxwrwjxoyjnrqjkrrUdejnrqzrpni.jhruhw
oqfjndjaerfnuzjnr utriyjn,rOrwnuh.revjrncqrohr voavrOrvuwrtejjfjwrevj
eipuaai,r voavr utrtirtenihsruhwrnuh.ridrevjreipuaairevuerOraicxw
taunajxzrsjeroerwi h;roqqjwouejxzrcfihrevotrOr jhereirpjwkrrOrdichw
fnjtjhexzroerdxj rcfroheirqzrvjuwryoixjhexz;rpcerOrdjxxroheirurtichw
txjjf,ruhwr u.jwrhirqinjreoxx,rpzrevjrtch,roerqcterhjajttunoxzrpjrhjun
evnjjri’axia.rohrevjrudejnhiihrevjrhjmerwuz—huz,reirevotrvicnrOruqrfunexz
idrifohoihrevuerOrtxjferuxxrevjrhjmerwuzruhwrhosve,ruhwreoxxruxqiterevnjj
evjrwuzrudejn;rdinrievjn otjrOr.hi rhiervi rOrtvicxwrxitjrurwuzriceridrqz
nja.ihohsrohrevjrwuztridrevjr jj.,rutroeruffjunjwrtiqjrzjuntrudejnrOrvuw
wihj;rdinrodrOrvuwrxiteroerpzranittohsruhwrnjanittohsrevjrxohj,rOrtvicxw
vuyjrxiterqinjrevuhrihjrwuz;rpcerajneuohxzrOrxiterurwuzrohrqzruaaiche,
uhwrhjyjnr.hj r voavr uzkrrPjrevue,rvi jyjn,rihjr uzrinrevjrievjn,r vjhrO
u u.jwrOrdichwrqztjxdrjmajjwohsxzrnjdnjtvjw,ruhwrqzrtfonoetrxoyjxzruhw
avjjndcx;r vjhrOrsiercfrOr utrtenihsjnrevuhrOr utrevjrwuzrpjdinj,ruhwrqz
teiquavrpjeejn,rdinrOr utrvchsnz;ruhw,rohrtvine,rOrvuwrhirdoerevjrhjme
wuz,rpceraiheohcjwrqcavruxejnjwrdinrevjrpjeejnkrrEvotr utrevjr29evk

Evjr30evr utrqzr jxxrwuz,ridraicntj,ruhwrOr jherupniuwr oevrqzrsch,rpce
wowrhieraunjreirenuyjxreiirdunkrrOr.oxxjwrurtju-di xrinre i,rtiqjevohs
xo.jrurpnuhwsiitj,ruhwrpnicsverevjqrviqj,rpcer utrhieryjnzrdin unwreirjue
evjq;rtirOruejrtiqjrqinjridrevjrecnexj’trjsst,r voavr jnjryjnzrsiiwk
EvotrjyjhohsrOrnjhj jwrevjrqjwoaohj,r voavrOrvuwrtcffitjwrwowrqjrsiiwrevj
wuzrpjdinj—evjreipuaairtejjfjwrohrncq;rihxzrOrwowrhiereu.jrtirqcavrut
pjdinj,rhinrwowrOravj ruhzridrevjrxjud,rinrvixwrqzrvjuwriyjnrevjrtqi.j;
vi jyjn,rOr utrhiertir jxxrevjrhjmerwuz,r voavr utrevjrdonteridrBcxz,rut
OrvifjwrOrtvicxwrvuyjrpjjh;rdinrOrvuwrurxoeexjrtfoajridrevjraixwrdoe,rpce
oer utrhierqcavk

_Bcxz_r2k—Ornjhj jwrevjrqjwoaohjruxxrevjrevnjjr uzt;ruhwrwitjwrqztjxd
 oevroerutruerdonte,ruhwrwicpxjwrevjrlcuheoezr voavrOrwnuh.k

_Bcxz_r3k—Orqottjwrevjrdoerdinrsiiwruhwruxx,revicsvrOrwowrhiernjaiyjnrqz
dcxxrtenjhsevrdinrtiqjr jj.trudejnkrr voxjrOr utrevctrsuevjnohsrtenjhsev,
qzrevicsvetrnuhrjmajjwohsxzrcfihrevotrTanofecnj,r“Or oxxrwjxoyjnrevjj”;
uhwrevjroqfittopoxoezridrqzrwjxoyjnuhajrxuzrqcavrcfihrqzrqohw,rohrpunrid
qzrjyjnrjmfjaeohsroe;rpcerutrOr utrwotaicnusohsrqztjxdr oevrtcav
evicsvet,roeriaacnnjwreirqzrqohwrevuerOrfinjwrtirqcavrcfihrqzrwjxoyjnuhaj
dniqrevjrquohruddxoaeoih,revuerOrwotnjsunwjwrevjrwjxoyjnuhajrOrvuw
njajoyjw,ruhwrOr utrutroer jnjrquwjreirut.rqztjxdrtcavrlcjteoihtrut
evjtj—yogkrVuyjrOrhierpjjhrwjxoyjnjw,ruhwr ihwjndcxxzreii,rdniq
toa.hjtt—dniqrevjrqiterwotenjttjwraihwoeoihrevueraicxwrpj,ruhwrevuer ut
tirdnosvedcxreirqj?ruhwr vuerhieoajrvuwrOreu.jhridroe?rrVuwrOrwihjrqz
fune?rrSiwrvuwrwjxoyjnjwrqj,rpcerOrvuwrhiersxinodojwrVoq—evuerotreirtuz,
Orvuwrhieri hjwruhwrpjjhrevuh.dcxrdinrevuerutrurwjxoyjnuhaj;ruhwrvi 
aicxwrOrjmfjaersnjuejnrwjxoyjnuhaj?rrEvotreicavjwrqzrvjuneryjnzrqcav;ruhw
oqqjwouejxzrOr.hjxerwi hruhwrsuyjrSiwrevuh.truxicwrdinrqzrnjaiyjnzrdniq
qzrtoa.hjttk

_Bcxz_r4k—OhrevjrqinhohsrOreii.revjrPopxj;ruhwrpjsohhohsruerevjrHj 
Ejteuqjhe,rOrpjsuhrtjnoictxzreirnjuwroe,ruhwroqfitjwrcfihrqztjxdreirnjuw
ur voxjrjyjnzrqinhohsruhwrjyjnzrhosve;rhierezohsrqztjxdreirevjrhcqpjnrid
avufejnt,rpcerxihsrutrqzrevicsvetrtvicxwrjhsusjrqjkrrOer utrhierxihs
udejnrOrtjertjnoictxzreirevotr in.reoxxrOrdichwrqzrvjunerqinjrwjjfxzruhw
tohajnjxzruddjaejwr oevrevjr oa.jwhjttridrqzrfuterxodjkrrEvjroqfnjttoih
idrqzrwnjuqrnjyoyjw;ruhwrevjr inwt,r“Uxxrevjtjrevohstrvuyjrhierpnicsve
evjjreirnjfjheuhaj,”rnuhrtjnoictxzrevnicsvrqzrevicsvetkrrOr utrjunhjtexz
pjssohsridrSiwreirsoyjrqjrnjfjheuhaj,r vjhroervuffjhjwrfniyowjheouxxz,
evjryjnzrwuz,revue,rnjuwohsrevjrTanofecnj,rOrauqjreirevjtjr inwt:r“Vjrot
jmuxejwrurFnohajruhwrurTuyoicn,reirsoyjrnjfjheuhajruhwreirsoyj
njqottoihk”rrOrevnj rwi hrevjrpii.;ruhwr oevrqzrvjunerutr jxxrutrqzrvuhwt
xodejwrcfreirvjuyjh,rohrur.ohwridrjateutzridrbiz,rOranojwriceruxicw,
“Bjtct,revicrtihridrWuyow!rrBjtct,revicrjmuxejwrFnohajruhwrTuyoicn!rsoyj
qjrnjfjheuhaj!”rrEvotr utrevjrdontereoqjrOraicxwrtuz,rohrevjrencjrtjhtj
idrevjr inwt,revuerOrfnuzjwrohruxxrqzrxodj;rdinrhi rOrfnuzjwr oevrurtjhtj
idrqzraihwoeoih,ruhwrurencjrTanofecnjryoj ridrvifj,rdichwjwrihrevj
jhaicnusjqjheridrevjr inwridrSiw;ruhwrdniqrevotreoqj,rOrquzrtuz,rOrpjsuh
eirvifjrevuerSiwr icxwrvjunrqjk

Hi rOrpjsuhreiraihtencjrevjr inwtrqjheoihjwrupiyj,r“AuxxrihrQj,ruhwrO
 oxxrwjxoyjnrevjj,”rohrurwoddjnjhertjhtjrdniqr vuerOrvuwrjyjnrwihj
pjdinj;rdinrevjhrOrvuwrhirhieoihridruhzevohsrpjohsrauxxjwr_wjxoyjnuhaj_,
pcerqzrpjohsrwjxoyjnjwrdniqrevjraufeoyoezrOr utroh;rdinrevicsvrOr ut
ohwjjwruerxunsjrohrevjrfxuaj,rzjerevjrotxuhwr utrajneuohxzrurfnotihrei
qj,ruhwrevuerohrevjr intjrtjhtjrohrevjr inxwkrrPcerhi rOrxjunhjwreireu.j
oerohruhievjnrtjhtj:rhi rOrxii.jwrpua.rcfihrqzrfuterxodjr oevrtcav
vinnin,ruhwrqzrtohtruffjunjwrtirwnjuwdcx,revuerqzrticxrticsverhievohsrid
Siwrpcerwjxoyjnuhajrdniqrevjrxiuwridrscoxerevuerpinjrwi hruxxrqzraiqdinek
Utrdinrqzrtixoeunzrxodj,roer utrhievohskrrOrwowrhiertirqcavrutrfnuzreirpj
wjxoyjnjwrdniqroerinrevoh.ridroe;roer utruxxridrhiraihtowjnueoihroh
aiqfunotihreirevotkrrUhwrOruwwrevotrfunervjnj,reirvohereir vijyjnrtvuxx
njuwroe,revuer vjhjyjnrevjzraiqjreirurencjrtjhtjridrevohst,revjzr oxx
dohwrwjxoyjnuhajrdniqrtohrurqcavrsnjuejnrpxjttohsrevuhrwjxoyjnuhajrdniq
uddxoaeoihk

Pce,rxjuyohsrevotrfune,rOrnjecnhreirqzrBicnhuxk

Qzraihwoeoihrpjsuhrhi reirpj,revicsvrhierxjttrqotjnupxjrutreirqzr uzrid
xoyohs,rzjerqcavrjutojnreirqzrqohw:ruhwrqzrevicsvetrpjohsrwonjaejw,rpzru
aihteuhernjuwohsrevjrTanofecnjruhwrfnuzohsreirSiw,reirevohstridrurvosvjn
huecnj,rOrvuwrursnjuerwjuxridraiqdiner oevoh,r voavreoxxrhi rOr.hj 
hievohsrid;ruxti,rqzrvjuxevruhwrtenjhsevrnjecnhjw,rOrpjteonnjwrqztjxdrei
dcnhotvrqztjxdr oevrjyjnzevohsrevuerOr uhejw,ruhwrqu.jrqzr uzridrxoyohs
utrnjscxunrutrOraicxwk

Dniqrevjr4evridrBcxzreirevjr14evrOr utravojdxzrjqfxizjwrohr ux.ohsrupice
 oevrqzrschrohrqzrvuhw,rurxoeexjruhwrurxoeexjruerureoqj,rutrurquhrevue
 utrsuevjnohsrcfrvotrtenjhsevrudejnrurdoeridrtoa.hjtt;rdinroerotrvunwxz
eirpjroqusohjwrvi rxi rOr ut,ruhwreir vuer ju.hjttrOr utrnjwcajwkrrEvj
uffxoaueoihr voavrOrquwjrctjridr utrfjndjaexzrhj ,ruhwrfjnvuftr voavrvuw
hjyjnracnjwruhruscjrpjdinj;rhjoevjnrauhrOrnjaiqqjhwroereiruhzrei
fnuaeotj,rpzrevotrjmfjnoqjhe:ruhwrevicsvroerwowraunnzriddrevjrdoe,rzjeroe
nuevjnraihenopcejwreir ju.jhohsrqj;rdinrOrvuwrdnjlcjheraihycxtoihtrohrqz
hjnyjtruhwrxoqptrdinrtiqjreoqjkrrOrxjunhjwrdniqroeruxtirevot,roh
funeoacxun,revuerpjohsrupniuwrohrevjrnuohzrtjutihr utrevjrqiterfjnhoaoict
evohsreirqzrvjuxevrevueraicxwrpj,rjtfjaouxxzrohrevitjrnuohtr voavrauqj
ueejhwjwr oevrteinqtruhwrvcnnoauhjtridr ohw;rdinrutrevjrnuohr voavrauqj
ohrevjrwnzrtjutihr utruxqiterux uztruaaiqfuhojwr oevrtcavrteinqt,rtirO
dichwrevuernuohr utrqcavrqinjrwuhsjnictrevuhrevjrnuohr voavrdjxxroh
TjfejqpjnruhwrIaeipjnk




AVUFEJNrYOO—USNOACXECNUXrJMFJNOJHAJ


Orvuwrhi rpjjhrohrevotrchvuffzrotxuhwrupiyjrejhrqihevtkrrUxxrfittopoxoez
idrwjxoyjnuhajrdniqrevotraihwoeoihrtjjqjwreirpjrjheonjxzreu.jhrdniqrqj;
uhwrOrdonqxzrpjxojyjrevuerhirvcquhrtvufjrvuwrjyjnrtjerdiiercfihrevue
fxuajkrrVuyohsrhi rtjacnjwrqzrvupoeueoih,rutrOrevicsve,rdcxxzreirqzrqohw,
Orvuwrursnjuerwjtonjreirqu.jrurqinjrfjndjaerwotaiyjnzridrevjrotxuhw,ruhw
eirtjjr vuerievjnrfniwcaeoihtrOrqosverdohw,r voavrOrzjer.hj rhievohsridk

Oer utrihrevjr15evridrBcxzrevuerOrpjsuhreireu.jrurqinjrfuneoacxunrtcnyjz
idrevjrotxuhwroetjxdkrrOr jhercfrevjranjj.rdonte,r vjnj,rutrOrvohejw,rO
pnicsverqzrnudetrihrtvinjkrrOrdichwrudejnrOrauqjrupicere irqoxjtrcf,revue
evjreowjrwowrhierdxi ruhzrvosvjn,ruhwrevueroer utrhirqinjrevuhrurxoeexj
pnii.ridrnchhohsr uejn,ryjnzrdnjtvruhwrsiiw;rpcerevotrpjohsrevjrwnz
tjutih,revjnjr utrvunwxzruhzr uejnrohrtiqjrfunetridroe—uerxjuterhie
jhicsvreirnchrohruhzrtenjuq,rtirutroeraicxwrpjrfjnajoyjwkrrIhrevjrpuh.t
idrevotrpnii.rOrdichwrquhzrfxjutuhertuyuhhuvtrinrqjuwi t,rfxuoh,rtqiiev,
uhwraiyjnjwr oevrsnutt;ruhwrihrevjrnotohsrfunetridrevjq,rhjmereirevj
vosvjnrsnichwt,r vjnjrevjr uejn,rutrqosverpjrtcffitjw,rhjyjnriyjndxi jw,
Ordichwrursnjuerwjuxridreipuaai,rsnjjh,ruhwrsni ohsreirursnjueruhwryjnz
tenihsrteux.krrEvjnjr jnjrwoyjntrievjnrfxuhet,r voavrOrvuwrhirhieoihrid
inrchwjnteuhwohsrupice,revuerqosve,rfjnvuft,rvuyjryonecjtridrevjonri h,
 voavrOraicxwrhierdohwricekrrOrtjunavjwrdinrevjrauttuyurniie,r voavrevj
Ohwouht,rohruxxrevueraxoquej,rqu.jrevjonrpnjuwrid,rpcerOraicxwrdohwrhihjk
Ortu rxunsjrfxuhetridruxijt,rpcerwowrhierchwjnteuhwrevjqkrrOrtu rtjyjnux
tcsun-auhjt,rpcer oxw,ruhw,rdinr uheridracxeoyueoih,roqfjndjaekrrO
aihejhejwrqztjxdr oevrevjtjrwotaiyjnojtrdinrevotreoqj,ruhwrauqjrpua.,
qctohsr oevrqztjxdr vueraicntjrOrqosvereu.jreir.hi revjryonecjruhw
siiwhjttridruhzridrevjrdncoetrinrfxuhetr voavrOrtvicxwrwotaiyjn,rpce
aicxwrpnohsroereirhiraihaxctoih;rdin,rohrtvine,rOrvuwrquwjrtirxoeexj
iptjnyueoihr voxjrOr utrohrevjrPnugoxt,revuerOr.hj rxoeexjridrevjrfxuhet
ohrevjrdojxw;ruerxjute,ryjnzrxoeexjrevuerqosvertjnyjreiruhzrfcnfitjrhi 
ohrqzrwotenjttk

Evjrhjmerwuz,revjrtomejjhev,rOr jhercfrevjrtuqjr uzrusuoh;ruhwrudejn
siohsrtiqjevohsrdcnevjnrevuhrOrvuwrsihjrevjrwuzrpjdinj,rOrdichwrevjrpnii.
uhwrevjrtuyuhhuvtrajutj,ruhwrevjraichenzrpjaiqjrqinjr iiwzrevuhrpjdinjk
OhrevotrfunerOrdichwrwoddjnjherdncoet,ruhwrfuneoacxunxzrOrdichwrqjxiht
cfihrevjrsnichw,rohrsnjuerupchwuhaj,ruhwrsnufjtrcfihrevjrenjjtkrrEvj
yohjtrvuwrtfnjuw,rohwjjw,riyjnrevjrenjjt,ruhwrevjraxctejntridrsnufjtr jnj
bcterhi rohrevjonrfnoqj,ryjnzrnofjruhwrnoavkrrEvotr utrurtcnfnotohs
wotaiyjnz,ruhwrOr utrjmajjwohsrsxuwridrevjq;rpcerOr utr unhjwrpzrqz
jmfjnojhajreirjuertfunohsxzridrevjq;rnjqjqpjnohsrevuer vjhrOr utrutvinj
ohrPunpunz,revjrjueohsridrsnufjtr.oxxjwrtjyjnuxridricnrJhsxotvqjh,r vi
 jnjrtxuyjtrevjnj,rpzrevni ohsrevjqroheirdxcmjtruhwrdjyjntkrrPcerOrdichw
uhrjmajxxjherctjrdinrevjtjrsnufjt;ruhwrevuer ut,reiracnjrinrwnzrevjqroh
evjrtch,ruhwr.jjfrevjqrutrwnojwrsnufjtrinrnuotohtrunjr.jfe,r voavrO
evicsver icxwrpj,rutrohwjjwrevjzr jnj,r vixjtiqjruhwrusnjjupxjreirjue
 vjhrhirsnufjtraicxwrpjrvuwk

Ortfjheruxxrevuerjyjhohsrevjnj,ruhwr jherhierpua.reirqzrvupoeueoih;
 voav,rpzrevjr uz,r utrevjrdonterhosve,rutrOrqosvertuz,rOrvuwrxuohrdniq
viqjkrrOhrevjrhosve,rOreii.rqzrdonteraihenoyuhaj,ruhwrsiercfrohrurenjj,
 vjnjrOrtxjfer jxx;ruhwrevjrhjmerqinhohsrfniajjwjwrcfihrqzrwotaiyjnz;
enuyjxxohsrhjunxzrdicnrqoxjt,rutrOrqosverbcwsjrpzrevjrxjhsevridrevj
yuxxjz,r.jjfohsrteoxxrwcjrhinev,r oevrurnowsjridrvoxxtrihrevjrticevruhw
hinevrtowjridrqjkrrUerevjrjhwridrevotrqunavrOrauqjreiruhrifjhohsr vjnj
evjraichenzrtjjqjwreirwjtajhwreirevjr jte;ruhwrurxoeexjrtfnohsridrdnjtv
 uejn,r voavrottcjwriceridrevjrtowjridrevjrvoxxrpzrqj,rnuhrevjrievjnr uz,
evuerot,rwcjrjute;ruhwrevjraichenzruffjunjwrtirdnjtv,rtirsnjjh,rti
dxicnotvohs,rjyjnzevohsrpjohsrohruraihteuheryjnwcnjrinrdxicnotvridrtfnohs
evueroerxii.jwrxo.jrurfxuhejwrsunwjhkrrOrwjtajhwjwrurxoeexjrihrevjrtowj
idrevuerwjxoaoictryuxj,rtcnyjzohsroer oevrurtjanjer.ohwridrfxjutcnj,
evicsvrqomjwr oevrqzrievjnruddxoaeohsrevicsvet,reirevoh.revuerevotr ut
uxxrqzri h;revuerOr utr.ohsruhwrxinwridruxxrevotraichenzrohwjdjhtopxz,
uhwrvuwrurnosveridrfittjttoih;ruhwrodrOraicxwraihyjzroe,rOrqosvervuyjroe
ohrohvjnoeuhajrutraiqfxjejxzrutruhzrxinwridrurquhinrohrJhsxuhwkrrOrtu 
vjnjrupchwuhajridraiaiurenjjt,rinuhsj,ruhwrxjqih,ruhwraoenihrenjjt;rpce
uxxr oxw,ruhwryjnzrdj rpjunohsruhzrdncoe,ruerxjuterhierevjhkrrVi jyjn,
evjrsnjjhrxoqjtrevuerOrsuevjnjwr jnjrhierihxzrfxjutuhereirjue,rpceryjnz
 vixjtiqj;ruhwrOrqomjwrevjonrbcoajrudejn unwtr oevr uejn,r voavrquwjroe
yjnzr vixjtiqj,ruhwryjnzraiixruhwrnjdnjtvohskrrOrdichwrhi rOrvuwrpctohjtt
jhicsvreirsuevjnruhwraunnzrviqj;ruhwrOrnjtixyjwreirxuzrcfrurteinjrutr jxx
idrsnufjtrutrxoqjtruhwrxjqiht,reirdcnhotvrqztjxdrdinrevjr jertjutih,
 voavrOr.hj r utruffniuavohskrrOhrinwjnreirwirevot,rOrsuevjnjwrursnjue
vjufridrsnufjtrohrihjrfxuaj,rurxjttjnrvjufrohruhievjnrfxuaj,ruhwrursnjue
funajxridrxoqjtruhwrxjqihtrohruhievjnrfxuaj;ruhwreu.ohsrurdj ridrjuav
 oevrqj,rOrenuyjxxjwrviqj unwt;rnjtixyohsreiraiqjrusuoh,ruhwrpnohsrurpus
inrtua.,rinr vuerOraicxwrqu.j,reiraunnzrevjrnjterviqjkrrUaainwohsxz,
vuyohsrtfjherevnjjrwuztrohrevotrbicnhjz,rOrauqjrviqjr(tirOrqcterhi rauxx
qzrejheruhwrqzrauyj);rpcerpjdinjrOrsierevoevjnrevjrsnufjtr jnjrtfioxjw;
evjrnoavhjttridrevjrdncoeruhwrevjr josveridrevjrbcoajrvuyohsrpni.jhrevjq
uhwrpncotjwrevjq,revjzr jnjrsiiwrdinrxoeexjrinrhievohs;rutreirevjrxoqjt,
evjzr jnjrsiiw,rpcerOraicxwrpnohsrpcerurdj k

Evjrhjmerwuz,rpjohsrevjrhohjejjhev,rOr jherpua.,rvuyohsrquwjrqjre irtquxx
pustreirpnohsrviqjrqzrvunyjte;rpcerOr utrtcnfnotjw,r vjhraiqohsreirqz
vjufridrsnufjt,r voavr jnjrtirnoavruhwrdohjr vjhrOrsuevjnjwrevjq,reirdohw
evjqruxxrtfnjuwrupice,reniwreirfojajt,ruhwrwnussjwrupice,rtiqjrvjnj,rtiqj
evjnj,ruhwrupchwuhajrjuejhruhwrwjyicnjwkrrPzrevotrOraihaxcwjwrevjnjr jnj
tiqjr oxwranjuecnjtrevjnjupicet,r voavrvuwrwihjrevot;rpcer vuerevjzr jnj
Or.hj rhiekrrVi jyjn,rutrOrdichwrevjnjr utrhirxuzohsrevjqrcfrihrvjuft,
uhwrhiraunnzohsrevjqru uzrohrurtua.,rpcerevuerihjr uzrevjzr icxwrpj
wjtenizjw,ruhwrevjrievjnr uzrevjzr icxwrpjranctvjwr oevrevjonri hr josve,
Oreii.ruhievjnraicntj;rdinrOrsuevjnjwrurxunsjrlcuheoezridrevjrsnufjt,ruhw
vchsrcfihrevjrice-pnuhavjtridrevjrenjjt,revuerevjzrqosveracnjruhwrwnzroh
evjrtch;ruhwrutrdinrevjrxoqjtruhwrxjqiht,rOraunnojwrutrquhzrpua.rutrO
aicxwr jxxrteuhwrchwjnk

 vjhrOrauqjrviqjrdniqrevotrbicnhjz,rOraihejqfxuejwr oevrsnjuerfxjutcnj
evjrdncoedcxhjttridrevueryuxxjz,ruhwrevjrfxjutuhehjttridrevjrtoecueoih;
evjrtjacnoezrdniqrteinqtrihrevuertowjridrevjr uejn,ruhwrevjr iiw:ruhw
aihaxcwjwrevuerOrvuwrfoeavjwrcfihrurfxuajreirdomrqzrupiwjr voavr utrpz
dunrevjr interfuneridrevjraichenzkrrCfihrevjr vixj,rOrpjsuhreiraihtowjn
idrnjqiyohsrqzrvupoeueoih,ruhwrxii.ohsricerdinrurfxuajrjlcuxxzrtudjrut
 vjnjrhi rOr utrtoecuej,rodrfittopxj,rohrevuerfxjutuhe,rdncoedcxrfunerid
evjrotxuhwk

Evotrevicsvernuhrxihsrohrqzrvjuw,ruhwrOr utrjmajjwohsrdihwridroerdinrtiqj
eoqj,revjrfxjutuhehjttridrevjrfxuajrejqfeohsrqj;rpcer vjhrOrauqjreiru
hjunjnryoj ridroe,rOraihtowjnjwrevuerOr utrhi rpzrevjrtjutowj,r vjnjroe
 utruerxjuterfittopxjrevuertiqjevohsrqosvervuffjhreirqzruwyuheusj,ruhw,
pzrevjrtuqjroxxrduejrevuerpnicsverqjrvoevjnrqosverpnohsrtiqjrievjn
chvuffzr njeavjtreirevjrtuqjrfxuaj;ruhwrevicsvroer utrtaunajrfnipupxj
evueruhzrtcavrevohsrtvicxwrjyjnrvuffjh,rzjereirjhaxitjrqztjxdruqihsrevj
voxxtruhwr iiwtrohrevjrajhenjridrevjrotxuhwr utreiruheoaofuejrqzrpihwusj,
uhwreirnjhwjnrtcavruhrudduonrhierihxzroqfnipupxj,rpceroqfittopxj;ruhw
evuerevjnjdinjrOricsverhierpzruhzrqjuhtreirnjqiyjkrrVi jyjn,rOr utrti
jhuqicnjwridrevotrfxuaj,revuerOrtfjherqcavridrqzreoqjrevjnjrdinrevjr vixj
idrevjrnjquohohsrfuneridrevjrqihevridrBcxz;ruhwrevicsvrcfihrtjaihw
evicsvet,rOrnjtixyjwrhiereirnjqiyj,rzjerOrpcoxerqjrurxoeexjr.ohwridru
pi jn,ruhwrtcnnichwjwroeruerurwoteuhajr oevrurtenihsrdjhaj,rpjohsru
wicpxjrvjwsj,rutrvosvrutrOraicxwrnjuav,r jxxrteu.jwruhwrdoxxjwrpje jjh
 oevrpnctv iiw;ruhwrvjnjrOrxuzryjnzrtjacnj,rtiqjeoqjtre irinrevnjjrhosvet
eisjevjn;rux uztrsiohsriyjnroer oevrurxuwwjn;rtirevuerOrduhaojwrhi rOrvuw
qzraichenzrvictjruhwrqzrtju-aiutervictj;ruhwrevotr in.reii.rqjrcfreirevj
pjsohhohsridrUcsctek

Orvuwrpcerhj xzrdohotvjwrqzrdjhaj,ruhwrpjsuhreirjhbizrqzrxupicn,r vjhrevj
nuohtrauqjrih,ruhwrquwjrqjrteoa.raxitjreirqzrdontervupoeueoih;rdinrevicsv
Orvuwrquwjrqjrurejherxo.jrevjrievjn,r oevrurfojajridrurtuox,ruhwrtfnjuw
oeryjnzr jxx,rzjerOrvuwrhierevjrtvjxejnridrurvoxxreir.jjfrqjrdniqrteinqt,
hinrurauyjrpjvohwrqjreirnjenjueroheir vjhrevjrnuohtr jnjrjmenuinwohunzk

UpicerevjrpjsohhohsridrUcscte,rutrOrtuow,rOrvuwrdohotvjwrqzrpi jn,ruhw
pjsuhreirjhbizrqztjxdkrrEvjr3nwridrUcscte,rOrdichwrevjrsnufjtrOrvuwrvchs
cfrfjndjaexzrwnojw,ruhw,rohwjjw,r jnjrjmajxxjhersiiwrnuotohtridrevjrtch;
tirOrpjsuhreireu.jrevjqrwi hrdniqrevjrenjjt,ruhwroer utryjnzrvuffzrevuerO
wowrti,rdinrevjrnuohtr voavrdixxi jwr icxwrvuyjrtfioxjwrevjq,ruhwrOrvuw
xiterevjrpjterfuneridrqzr ohejnrdiiw;rdinrOrvuwrupiyjre irvchwnjwrxunsj
pchavjtridrevjqkrrHirtiihjnrvuwrOreu.jhrevjqruxxrwi h,ruhwraunnojwrevj
qiteridrevjqrviqjreirqzrauyj,revuhroerpjsuhreirnuoh;ruhwrdniqrvjhaj,
 voavr utrevjr14evridrUcscte,roernuohjw,rqinjrinrxjtt,rjyjnzrwuzreoxxrevj
qowwxjridrIaeipjn;ruhwrtiqjeoqjtrtiryoixjhexz,revuerOraicxwrhierteonrice
idrqzrauyjrdinrtjyjnuxrwuztk

OhrevotrtjutihrOr utrqcavrtcnfnotjwr oevrevjrohanjutjridrqzrduqoxz;rOrvuw
pjjhraihajnhjwrdinrevjrxittridrihjridrqzrauet,r virnuhru uzrdniqrqj,rin,
utrOrevicsve,rvuwrpjjhrwjuw,ruhwrOrvjunwrhirqinjreowohstridrvjnreoxx,rei
qzruteihotvqjhe,rtvjrauqjrviqjrupicerevjrjhwridrUcscter oevrevnjj
.oeejhtkrrEvotr utrevjrqinjrtenuhsjreirqjrpjauctj,revicsvrOrvuwr.oxxjwru
 oxwraue,rutrOrauxxjwroe,r oevrqzrsch,rzjerOrevicsveroer utrlcoejru
woddjnjher.ohwrdniqricnrJcnifjuhrauet;rpcerevjrzichsrauetr jnjrevjrtuqj
.ohwridrvictj-pnjjwrutrevjrixwrihj;ruhwrpievrqzrauetrpjohsrdjquxjt,rO
evicsveroeryjnzrtenuhsjkrrPcerdniqrevjtjrevnjjrauetrOrudejn unwtrauqjrei
pjrtirfjtejnjwr oevrauetrevuerOr utrdinajwreir.oxxrevjqrxo.jryjnqohrin
 oxwrpjutet,ruhwreirwnoyjrevjqrdniqrqzrvictjrutrqcavrutrfittopxjk

Dniqrevjr14evridrUcsctereirevjr26ev,rohajttuhernuoh,rtirevuerOraicxwrhie
teon,ruhwr utrhi ryjnzraunjdcxrhiereirpjrqcavr jekrrOhrevotraihdohjqjhe,
Orpjsuhreirpjrtenuoejhjwrdinrdiiw:rpceryjhecnohsricere oaj,rOrihjrwuz
.oxxjwrursiue;ruhwrevjrxuterwuz,r voavr utrevjr26ev,rdichwruryjnzrxunsj
eineiotj,r voavr utrurenjuereirqj,ruhwrqzrdiiwr utrnjscxuejwrevct:rOruej
urpchavridrnuotohtrdinrqzrpnju.dute;rurfojajridrevjrsiue’trdxjtv,rinrid
evjrecnexj,rdinrqzrwohhjn,rpnioxjw—din,reirqzrsnjuerqotdinechj,rOrvuwrhi
yjttjxreirpioxrinrtej ruhzevohs;ruhwre irinrevnjjridrevjrecnexj’trjsst
dinrqzrtcffjnk

Wcnohsrevotraihdohjqjherohrqzraiyjnrpzrevjrnuoh,rOr in.jwrwuoxzre irin
evnjjrvicntruerjhxunsohsrqzrauyj,ruhwrpzrwjsnjjtr in.jwroerihrei unwtrihj
towj,reoxxrOrauqjreirevjricetowjridrevjrvoxx,ruhwrquwjrurwiinrinr uzrice,
 voavrauqjrpjzihwrqzrdjhajrinr uxx;ruhwrtirOrauqjrohruhwricerevotr uzk
PcerOr utrhierfjndjaexzrjutzruerxzohsrtirifjh;rdin,rutrOrvuwrquhusjw
qztjxdrpjdinj,rOr utrohrurfjndjaerjhaxitcnj;r vjnjutrhi rOrevicsverOrxuz
jmfitjw,ruhwrifjhrdinruhzevohsreiraiqjrohrcfihrqj;ruhwrzjerOraicxwrhie
fjnajoyjrevuerevjnjr utruhzrxoyohsrevohsreirdjun,revjrpossjteranjuecnj
evuerOrvuwrzjertjjhrcfihrevjrotxuhwrpjohsrursiuek

_Tjfek_r30k—Or utrhi raiqjreirevjrchvuffzruhhoyjntunzridrqzrxuhwohskrrO
autercfrevjrhieavjtrihrqzrfite,ruhwrdichwrOrvuwrpjjhrihrtvinjrevnjj
vchwnjwruhwrtomez-doyjrwuztkrrOr.jferevotrwuzrutrurtixjqhrdute,rtjeeohs
oerufunerdinrnjxosoictrjmjnaotj,rfnitenueohsrqztjxdrihrevjrsnichwr oev
evjrqitertjnoictrvcqoxoueoih,raihdjttohsrqzrtohtreirSiw,rua.hi xjwsohs
Votrnosvejictrbcwsqjhetrcfihrqj,ruhwrfnuzohsreirVoqreirvuyjrqjnazrihrqj
evnicsvrBjtctrAvnote;ruhwrhiervuyohsreutejwrevjrxjuternjdnjtvqjherdin
e jxyjrvicnt,rjyjhreoxxrevjrsiohsrwi hridrevjrtch,rOrevjhruejru
potacoe-au.jruhwrurpchavridrsnufjt,ruhwr jhereirpjw,rdohotvohsrevjrwuzrut
OrpjsuhroekrrOrvuwruxxrevotreoqjriptjnyjwrhirTuppuevrwuz;rdinrutruerdonte
Orvuwrhirtjhtjridrnjxosoihrcfihrqzrqohw,rOrvuw,rudejnrtiqjreoqj,riqoeejw
eirwoteohscotvrevjr jj.t,rpzrqu.ohsrurxihsjnrhieavrevuhrinwohunzrdinrevj
Tuppuevrwuz,ruhwrtirwowrhiernjuxxzr.hi r vueruhzridrevjrwuztr jnj;rpce
hi ,rvuyohsrautercfrevjrwuztrutrupiyj,rOrdichwrOrvuwrpjjhrevjnjrurzjun;
tirOrwoyowjwroeroheir jj.t,ruhwrtjerufunerjyjnzrtjyjhevrwuzrdinru
Tuppuev;revicsvrOrdichwruerevjrjhwridrqzruaaicherOrvuwrxiterurwuzrinre i
ohrqzrnja.ihohskrrUrxoeexjrudejnrevot,rqzroh.rpjsuhreirduoxrqj,ruhwrtirO
aihejhejwrqztjxdreirctjroerqinjrtfunohsxz,ruhwreir noejrwi hrihxzrevj
qiternjqun.upxjrjyjhetridrqzrxodj,r oeviceraiheohcohsrurwuoxzrqjqinuhwcq
idrievjnrevohstk

Evjrnuohzrtjutihruhwrevjrwnzrtjutihrpjsuhrhi reiruffjunrnjscxunreirqj,
uhwrOrxjunhjwreirwoyowjrevjqrtirutreirfniyowjrdinrevjqruaainwohsxz;rpcerO
picsveruxxrqzrjmfjnojhajrpjdinjrOrvuwroe,ruhwrevotrOruqrsiohsreirnjxuej
 utrihjridrevjrqiterwotaicnusohsrjmfjnoqjhetrevuerOrquwjk

OrvuyjrqjheoihjwrevuerOrvuwrtuyjwrevjrdj rjuntridrpunxjzruhwrnoaj,r voav
Orvuwrtirtcnfnotohsxzrdichwrtfnohsrcf,rutrOrevicsve,ridrevjqtjxyjt,ruhwrO
pjxojyjrevjnjr jnjrupicerevonezrteux.tridrnoaj,ruhwrupicere jhezrid
punxjz;ruhwrhi rOrevicsveroerurfnifjnreoqjreirti roe,rudejnrevjrnuoht,
evjrtchrpjohsrohroetrticevjnhrfitoeoih,rsiohsrdniqrqjkrrUaainwohsxz,rO
wcsrcfrurfojajridrsnichwrutr jxxrutrOraicxwr oevrqzr iiwjhrtfuwj,ruhw
woyowohsroeroheire irfunet,rOrti jwrqzrsnuoh;rpcerutrOr utrti ohs,roe
autcuxxzriaacnnjwreirqzrevicsvetrevuerOr icxwrhierti roeruxxruerdonte,
pjauctjrOrwowrhier.hi r vjhr utrevjrfnifjnreoqjrdinroe,rtirOrti jwrupice
e i-evonwtridrevjrtjjw,rxjuyohsrupicerurvuhwdcxridrjuavkrrOer utrursnjue
aiqdinereirqjrudejn unwtrevuerOrwowrti,rdinrhierihjrsnuohridr vuerOrti jw
evotreoqjrauqjreiruhzevohs:rdinrevjrwnzrqihevtrdixxi ohs,revjrjunev
vuyohsrvuwrhirnuohrudejnrevjrtjjwr utrti h,roervuwrhirqiotecnjreiruttote
oetrsni ev,ruhwrhjyjnrauqjrcfrueruxxreoxxrevjr jertjutihrvuwraiqjrusuoh,
uhwrevjhroersnj rutrodroervuwrpjjhrpcerhj xzrti hkrrDohwohsrqzrdontertjjw
wowrhiersni ,r voavrOrjutoxzroqusohjwr utrpzrevjrwnicsve,rOrticsverdinru
qiotejnrfojajridrsnichwreirqu.jruhievjnrenouxroh,ruhwrOrwcsrcfrurfojajrid
snichwrhjunrqzrhj rpi jn,ruhwrti jwrevjrnjteridrqzrtjjwrohrDjpncunz,ru
xoeexjrpjdinjrevjryjnhuxrjlcohim;ruhwrevotrvuyohsrevjrnuohzrqihevtrid
QunavruhwrUfnoxreir uejnroe,rtfnchsrcfryjnzrfxjutuhexz,ruhwrzojxwjwru
yjnzrsiiwranif;rpcervuyohsrfuneridrevjrtjjwrxjderihxz,ruhwrhierwunohsrei
ti ruxxrevuerOrvuw,rOrvuwrpcerurtquxxrlcuheoezruerxute,rqzr vixjranifrhie
uqicheohsreirupiyjrvuxdrurfja.ridrjuavr.ohwkrrPcerpzrevotrjmfjnoqjherO
 utrquwjrqutejnridrqzrpctohjtt,ruhwr.hj rjmuaexzr vjhrevjrfnifjnrtjutih
 utreirti ,ruhwrevuerOrqosverjmfjaere irtjjw-eoqjtruhwre irvunyjtetrjyjnz
zjunk

 voxjrevotrainhr utrsni ohsrOrquwjrurxoeexjrwotaiyjnz,r voavr utridrctj
eirqjrudejn unwtkrrUtrtiihrutrevjrnuohtr jnjriyjn,ruhwrevjr juevjnrpjsuh
eirtjeexj,r voavr utrupicerevjrqihevridrHiyjqpjn,rOrquwjruryotoercfrevj
aichenzreirqzrpi jn,r vjnj,revicsvrOrvuwrhierpjjhrtiqjrqihevt,rzjerO
dichwruxxrevohstrbcterutrOrxjderevjqkrrEvjraonaxjrinrwicpxjrvjwsjrevuerO
vuwrquwjr utrhierihxzrdonqruhwrjheonj,rpcerevjrteu.jtr voavrOrvuwracerice
idrtiqjrenjjtrevuersnj revjnjupicetr jnjruxxrtviericeruhwrsni hr oevrxihs
pnuhavjt,rutrqcavrutrur oxxi -enjjrctcuxxzrtviietrevjrdonterzjunrudejn
xiffohsroetrvjuwkrrOraicxwrhierejxxr vuerenjjreirauxxroerevuerevjtj
teu.jtr jnjracerdniqkrrOr utrtcnfnotjw,ruhwrzjeryjnzr jxxrfxjutjw,reirtjj
evjrzichsrenjjtrsni ;ruhwrOrfnchjwrevjq,ruhwrxjwrevjqrcfreirsni rutrqcav
uxo.jrutrOraicxw;ruhwroerotrtaunajranjwopxjrvi rpjuceodcxrurdoscnjrevjz
snj roheirohrevnjjrzjunt;rtirevuerevicsvrevjrvjwsjrquwjruraonaxjridrupice
e jhez-doyjrzunwtrohrwouqjejn,rzjerevjrenjjt,rdinrtcavrOrqosverhi rauxx
evjq,rtiihraiyjnjwroe,ruhwroer utruraiqfxjejrtvuwj,rtcddoaojhereirxiwsj
chwjnruxxrevjrwnzrtjutihkrrEvotrquwjrqjrnjtixyjreiracertiqjrqinjrteu.jt,
uhwrqu.jrqjrurvjwsjrxo.jrevot,rohrurtjqo-aonaxjrnichwrqzr uxxr(Orqjuh
evueridrqzrdonterw jxxohs),r voavrOrwow;ruhwrfxuaohsrevjrenjjtrinrteu.jt
ohrurwicpxjrni ,ruerupicerjosverzunwtrwoteuhajrdniqrqzrdonterdjhaj,revjz
snj rfnjtjhexz,ruhwr jnjruerdonterurdohjraiyjnreirqzrvupoeueoih,ruhw
udejn unwtrtjnyjwrdinrurwjdjhajruxti,rutrOrtvuxxriptjnyjrohroetrinwjnk

Ordichwrhi revuerevjrtjutihtridrevjrzjunrqosversjhjnuxxzrpjrwoyowjw,rhie
oheirtcqqjnruhwr ohejn,rutrohrJcnifj,rpceroheirevjrnuohzrtjutihtruhwrevj
wnzrtjutiht,r voavr jnjrsjhjnuxxzrevct:—EvjrvuxdridrDjpncunz,revjr vixj
idrQunav,ruhwrevjrvuxdridrUfnox—nuohz,revjrtchrpjohsrevjhrihrinrhjunrevj
jlcohimk

EvjrvuxdridrUfnox,revjr vixjridrQuz,rBchj,ruhwrBcxz,ruhwrevjrvuxdrid
Ucscte—wnz,revjrtchrpjohsrevjhreirevjrhinevridrevjrxohjk

EvjrvuxdridrUcscte,revjr vixjridrTjfejqpjn,ruhwrevjrvuxdrid
Iaeipjn—nuohz,revjrtchrpjohsrevjhraiqjrpua.k

EvjrvuxdridrIaeipjn,revjr vixjridrHiyjqpjn,rWjajqpjn,ruhwrBuhcunz,ruhw
evjrvuxdridrDjpncunz—wnz,revjrtchrpjohsrevjhreirevjrticevridrevjrxohjk

Evjrnuohzrtjutihtrtiqjeoqjtrvjxwrxihsjnrinrtvinejnrutrevjr ohwtrvuffjhjw
eirpxi ,rpcerevotr utrevjrsjhjnuxriptjnyueoihrOrquwjkrrUdejnrOrvuwrdichw
pzrjmfjnojhajrevjroxxraihtjlcjhajtridrpjohsrupniuwrohrevjrnuoh,rOreii.
aunjreirdcnhotvrqztjxdr oevrfniyotoihtrpjdinjvuhw,revuerOrqosverhierpj
ipxosjwreirsirice,ruhwrOrtuer oevohrwiintrutrqcavrutrfittopxjrwcnohsrevj
 jerqihevtkrrEvotreoqjrOrdichwrqcavrjqfxizqjhe,ruhwryjnzrtcoeupxjruxtirei
evjreoqj,rdinrOrdichwrsnjueriaautoihrdinrquhzrevohstr voavrOrvuwrhir uz
eirdcnhotvrqztjxdr oevrpcerpzrvunwrxupicnruhwraihteuheruffxoaueoih;
funeoacxunxzrOrenojwrquhzr uztreirqu.jrqztjxdrurput.je,rpceruxxrevjre ost
Oraicxwrsjerdinrevjrfcnfitjrfniyjwrtirpnoeexjrevuerevjzr icxwrwirhievohsk
Oerfniyjwridrjmajxxjheruwyuheusjreirqjrhi ,revuer vjhrOr utrurpiz,rOrctjw
eireu.jrsnjuerwjxosverohrteuhwohsruerurput.je-qu.jn’t,rohrevjrei hr vjnj
qzrduevjnrxoyjw,reirtjjrevjqrqu.jrevjonr oa.jn- unj;ruhwrpjohs,rutrpizt
ctcuxxzrunj,ryjnzriddoaoictreirvjxf,ruhwrursnjueriptjnyjnridrevjrquhhjn
ohr voavrevjzr in.jwrevitjrevohst,ruhwrtiqjeoqjtrxjhwohsrurvuhw,rOrvuwrpz
evjtjrqjuhtrdcxxr.hi xjwsjridrevjrqjeviwtridroe,ruhwrOr uhejwrhievohsrpce
evjrquejnouxt,r vjhroerauqjroheirqzrqohwrevuerevjre ostridrevuerenjjrdniq
 vjhajrOracerqzrteu.jtrevuersnj rqosverfittopxzrpjrutreicsvrutrevj
tuxxi t,r oxxi t,ruhwritojntrohrJhsxuhw,ruhwrOrnjtixyjwreirenzk
Uaainwohsxz,revjrhjmerwuzrOr jhereirqzraichenzrvictj,rutrOrauxxjwroe,ruhw
aceeohsrtiqjridrevjrtquxxjnre ost,rOrdichwrevjqreirqzrfcnfitjrutrqcavrut
Oraicxwrwjtonj;r vjnjcfihrOrauqjrevjrhjmereoqjrfnjfunjwr oevrurvueavjerei
acerwi hrurlcuheoez,r voavrOrtiihrdichw,rdinrevjnjr utrsnjuerfxjhezrid
evjqkrrEvjtjrOrtjercfreirwnzr oevohrqzraonaxjrinrvjwsj,ruhwr vjhrevjz
 jnjrdoerdinrctjrOraunnojwrevjqreirqzrauyj;ruhwrvjnj,rwcnohsrevjrhjme
tjutih,rOrjqfxizjwrqztjxdrohrqu.ohs,rutr jxxrutrOraicxw,rursnjuerquhz
put.jet,rpievreiraunnzrjunevrinreiraunnzrinrxuzrcfruhzevohs,rutrOrvuw
iaautoih;ruhwrevicsvrOrwowrhierdohotvrevjqryjnzrvuhwtiqjxz,rzjerOrquwj
evjqrtcddoaojhexzrtjnyoajupxjrdinrqzrfcnfitj;revct,rudejn unwt,rOreii.
aunjrhjyjnreirpjr oevicerevjq;ruhwrutrqzr oa.jn- unjrwjauzjw,rOrquwj
qinj,rjtfjaouxxzrtenihs,rwjjfrput.jetreirfxuajrqzrainhroh,rohtejuwrid
tua.t,r vjhrOrtvicxwraiqjreirvuyjruhzrlcuheoezridroek

Vuyohsrqutejnjwrevotrwoddoacxez,ruhwrjqfxizjwrur inxwridreoqjrupiceroe,rO
pjteonnjwrqztjxdreirtjj,rodrfittopxj,rvi reirtcffxzre ir uhetkrrOrvuwrhi
yjttjxtreirvixwruhzevohsrevuer utrxolcow,rjmajfere irnchxjet,r voavr jnj
uxqiterdcxxridrncq,ruhwrtiqjrsxuttrpieexjt—tiqjridrevjraiqqihrtogj,ruhw
ievjntr voavr jnjrautjrpieexjt,rtlcunj,rdinrevjrvixwohsridr uejn,
tfonoet,r&akrrOrvuwrhiertirqcavrutrurfiereirpioxruhzevohs,rjmajferursnjue
.jeexj,r voavrOrtuyjwriceridrevjrtvof,ruhwr voavr utreiirposrdinrtcavrut
Orwjtonjwroe—yogkreirqu.jrpniev,ruhwrtej rurpoeridrqjuerpzroetjxdkrrEvj
tjaihwrevohsrOrduohr icxwrvuyjrvuwr utrureipuaai-fofj,rpceroer ut
oqfittopxjreirqjreirqu.jrihj;rvi jyjn,rOrdichwruraihenoyuhajrdinrevue,
eii,ruerxutekrrOrjqfxizjwrqztjxdrohrfxuheohsrqzrtjaihwrni tridrteu.jtrin
foxjt,ruhwrohrevotr oa.jn- in.ohsruxxrevjrtcqqjnrinrwnzrtjutih,r vjh
uhievjnrpctohjttreii.rqjrcfrqinjreoqjrevuhroeraicxwrpjroqusohjwrOraicxw
tfunjk




AVUFEJNrYOOO—TCNYJZTrVOTrFITOEOIH


OrqjheoihjwrpjdinjrevuerOrvuwrursnjuerqohwreirtjjrevjr vixjrotxuhw,ruhw
evuerOrvuwrenuyjxxjwrcfrevjrpnii.,ruhwrtirihreir vjnjrOrpcoxerqzrpi jn,
uhwr vjnjrOrvuwruhrifjhohsrlcoejreirevjrtju,rihrevjrievjnrtowjridrevj
otxuhwkrrOrhi rnjtixyjwreirenuyjxrlcoejruanittreirevjrtju-tvinjrihrevue
towj;rti,reu.ohsrqzrsch,rurvueavje,ruhwrqzrwis,ruhwrurxunsjnrlcuheoezrid
fi wjnruhwrtvierevuhrctcux,r oevre irpotacoe-au.jtruhwrursnjuerpchavrid
nuotohtrohrqzrficavrdinrqzrteinj,rOrpjsuhrqzrbicnhjzkrr vjhrOrvuwrfuttjw
evjryuxjr vjnjrqzrpi jnrteiiw,rutrupiyj,rOrauqjr oevohryoj ridrevjrtjurei
evjr jte,ruhwroerpjohsruryjnzraxjunrwuz,rOrduonxzrwjtanojwrxuhw— vjevjn
uhrotxuhwrinruraiheohjherOraicxwrhierejxx;rpceroerxuzryjnzrvosv,
jmejhwohsrdniqrevjr kreirevjr kTk krueruryjnzrsnjuerwoteuhaj;rpzrqzrscjtt
oeraicxwrhierpjrxjttrevuhrdodejjhrinre jhezrxjuscjtriddk

Oraicxwrhierejxxr vuerfuneridrevjr inxwrevotrqosverpj,rievjn otjrevuh
evuerOr.hj roerqcterpjrfuneridrUqjnoau,ruhw,rutrOraihaxcwjwrpzruxxrqz
iptjnyueoiht,rqcterpjrhjunrevjrTfuhotvrwiqohoiht,ruhwrfjnvuftr utruxx
ohvupoejwrpzrtuyusjt,r vjnj,rodrOrvuwrxuhwjw,rOrvuwrpjjhrohrur intj
aihwoeoihrevuhrOr utrhi ;ruhwrevjnjdinjrOrualcojtajwrohrevjrwotfitoeoiht
idrFniyowjhaj,r voavrOrpjsuhrhi reiri hruhwreirpjxojyjrinwjnjwrjyjnzevohs
dinrevjrpjte;rOrtuzrOrlcojejwrqzrqohwr oevrevot,ruhwrxjderiddruddxoaeohs
qztjxdr oevrdncoexjttr otvjtridrpjohsrevjnjk

Pjtowjt,rudejnrtiqjrevicsvercfihrevotrudduon,rOraihtowjnjwrevuerodrevot
xuhwr utrevjrTfuhotvraiute,rOrtvicxwrajneuohxz,rihjreoqjrinrievjn,rtjj
tiqjryjttjxrfuttrinrnjfuttrihjr uzrinrievjn;rpcerodrhie,revjhroer utrevj
tuyusjraiuterpje jjhrevjrTfuhotvraichenzruhwrPnugoxt,r vjnjrunjrdichwrevj
 interidrtuyusjt;rdinrevjzrunjrauhhopuxtrinrqjh-juejnt,ruhwrduoxrhierei
qcnwjnruhwrwjyicnruxxrevjrvcquhrpiwojtrevuerduxxroheirevjonrvuhwtk

 oevrevjtjraihtowjnueoiht,rOr ux.jwryjnzrxjotcnjxzrdin unwkrrOrdichwrevue
towjridrevjrotxuhwr vjnjrOrhi r utrqcavrfxjutuhejnrevuhrqohj—evjrifjhrin
tuyuhhuvrdojxwtrt jje,ruwinhjwr oevrdxi jntruhwrsnutt,ruhwrdcxxridryjnz
dohjr iiwtkrrOrtu rupchwuhajridrfunniet,ruhwrduohrOr icxwrvuyjraucsve
ihj,rodrfittopxj,reirvuyjr.jferoereirpjreuqj,ruhwreucsveroereirtfju.rei
qjkrrOrwow,rudejnrtiqjrfuohteu.ohs,raueavrurzichsrfunnie,rdinrOr.hia.jw
oerwi hr oevrurteoa.,ruhwrvuyohsrnjaiyjnjwroe,rOrpnicsveroerviqj;rpceroe
 utrtiqjrzjuntrpjdinjrOraicxwrqu.jrvoqrtfju.;rvi jyjn,ruerxuterOreucsve
voqreirauxxrqjrpzrhuqjryjnzrduqoxounxzkrrPcerevjruaaowjherevuerdixxi jw,
evicsvroerpjrurenodxj,r oxxrpjryjnzrwoyjneohsrohroetrfxuajk

Or utrjmajjwohsxzrwoyjnejwr oevrevotrbicnhjzkrrOrdichwrohrevjrxi rsnichwt
vunjtr(utrOrevicsverevjqreirpj)ruhwrdimjt;rpcerevjzrwoddjnjwrsnjuexzrdniq
uxxrevjrievjnr.ohwtrOrvuwrqjer oev,rhinraicxwrOrtueotdzrqztjxdreirjue
evjq,revicsvrOr.oxxjwrtjyjnuxkrrPcerOrvuwrhirhjjwreirpjryjhecnict,rdinrO
vuwrhir uheridrdiiw,ruhwridrevuer voavr utryjnzrsiiwreii,rjtfjaouxxz
evjtjrevnjjrtinet,ryogkrsiuet,rfosjiht,ruhwrecnexj,rinreineiotj,r voav
uwwjwreirqzrsnufjt,rXjuwjhvuxxrqun.jeraicxwrhiervuyjrdcnhotvjwrureupxj
pjeejnrevuhrO,rohrfnifineoihreirevjraiqfuhz;ruhwrevicsvrqzrautjr ut
wjfxinupxjrjhicsv,rzjerOrvuwrsnjuerauctjrdinrevuh.dcxhjttrevuerOr utrhie
wnoyjhreiruhzrjmenjqoeojtrdinrdiiw,rpcervuwrnuevjnrfxjhez,rjyjhrei
wuoheojtk

Orhjyjnrenuyjxxjwrohrevotrbicnhjzrupiyjre irqoxjtricenosverohrurwuz,rin
evjnjupicet;rpcerOreii.rtirquhzrecnhtruhwrnj-ecnhtreirtjjr vue
wotaiyjnojtrOraicxwrqu.j,revuerOrauqjr junzrjhicsvreirevjrfxuajr vjnjrO
njtixyjwreirtoerwi hruxxrhosve;ruhwrevjhrOrjoevjnrnjfitjwrqztjxdrohru
enjj,rinrtcnnichwjwrqztjxdr oevrurni ridrteu.jtrtjercfnosverohrevj
snichw,rjoevjnrdniqrihjrenjjreiruhievjn,rinrtirutrhir oxwranjuecnjraicxw
aiqjruerqjr oevicer u.ohsrqjk

UtrtiihrutrOrauqjreirevjrtju-tvinj,rOr utrtcnfnotjwreirtjjrevuerOrvuw
eu.jhrcfrqzrxierihrevjr intertowjridrevjrotxuhw,rdinrvjnj,rohwjjw,revj
tvinjr utraiyjnjwr oevrohhcqjnupxjrecnexjt,r vjnjutrihrevjrievjnrtowjrO
vuwrdichwrpcerevnjjrohrurzjunruhwrurvuxdkrrVjnjr utruxtiruhrohdohoej
hcqpjnridrdi xtridrquhzr.ohwt,rtiqjr voavrOrvuwrtjjh,ruhwrtiqjr voavrO
vuwrhiertjjhrpjdinj,ruhwrquhzridrevjqryjnzrsiiwrqjue,rpcertcavrutrOr.hj 
hierevjrhuqjtrid,rjmajferevitjrauxxjwrfjhscohtk

OraicxwrvuyjrtvierutrquhzrutrOrfxjutjw,rpcer utryjnzrtfunohsridrqzrfi wjn
uhwrtvie,ruhwrevjnjdinjrvuwrqinjrqohwreir.oxxrurtvj-siuerodrOraicxw,
 voavrOraicxwrpjeejnrdjjwrih;ruhwrevicsvrevjnjr jnjrquhzrsiuetrvjnj,rqinj
evuhrihrqzrtowjrevjrotxuhw,rzjeroer utr oevrqcavrqinjrwoddoacxezrevuerO
aicxwraiqjrhjunrevjq,revjraichenzrpjohsrdxueruhwrjyjh,ruhwrevjzrtu rqj
qcavrtiihjnrevuhr vjhrOr utrihrevjrvoxxtk

Oraihdjttrevotrtowjridrevjraichenzr utrqcavrfxjutuhejnrevuhrqohj;rpcerzje
Orvuwrhierevjrxjuterohaxohueoihreirnjqiyj,rdinrutrOr utrdomjwrohrqz
vupoeueoihroerpjauqjrhuecnuxreirqj,ruhwrOrtjjqjwruxxrevjr voxjrOr utrvjnj
eirpjrutroer jnjrcfihrurbicnhjz,ruhwrdniqrviqjkrrVi jyjn,rOrenuyjxxjw
uxihsrevjrtvinjridrevjrtjurei unwtrevjrjute,rOrtcffitjrupicere jxyj
qoxjt,ruhwrevjhrtjeeohsrcfrursnjuerfixjrcfihrevjrtvinjrdinrurqun.,rO
aihaxcwjwrOr icxwrsirviqjrusuoh,ruhwrevuerevjrhjmerbicnhjzrOreii.rtvicxw
pjrihrevjrievjnrtowjridrevjrotxuhwrjuterdniqrqzrw jxxohs,ruhwrtirnichw
eoxxrOrauqjreirqzrfiterusuohk

Oreii.ruhievjnr uzreiraiqjrpua.revuhrevuerOr jhe,revoh.ohsrOraicxwrjutoxz
.jjfruxxrevjrotxuhwrtirqcavrohrqzryoj revuerOraicxwrhierqottrdohwohsrqz
donterw jxxohsrpzryoj ohsrevjraichenz;rpcerOrdichwrqztjxdrqoteu.jh,rdin
pjohsraiqjrupicere irinrevnjjrqoxjt,rOrdichwrqztjxdrwjtajhwjwroheiruryjnz
xunsjryuxxjz,rpcertirtcnnichwjwr oevrvoxxt,ruhwrevitjrvoxxtraiyjnjwr oev
 iiw,revuerOraicxwrhiertjjr voavr utrqzr uzrpzruhzrwonjaeoihrpcerevuerid
evjrtch,rhinrjyjhrevjh,rchxjttrOr.hj ryjnzr jxxrevjrfitoeoihridrevjrtch
uerevuereoqjridrevjrwuzkrrOervuffjhjw,reirqzrdcnevjnrqotdinechj,revuerevj
 juevjnrfniyjwrvugzrdinrevnjjrinrdicnrwuztr voxjrOr utrohrevjryuxxjz,ruhw
hierpjohsrupxjreirtjjrevjrtch,rOr uhwjnjwrupiceryjnzrchaiqdineupxz,ruhw
uerxuter utripxosjwreirdohwrevjrtjutowj,rxii.rdinrqzrfite,ruhwraiqjrpua.
evjrtuqjr uzrOr jhe:ruhwrevjh,rpzrjutzrbicnhjzt,rOrecnhjwrviqj unw,revj
 juevjnrpjohsrjmajjwohsrvie,ruhwrqzrsch,ruqqchoeoih,rvueavje,ruhwrievjn
evohstryjnzrvjuyzk

Ohrevotrbicnhjzrqzrwisrtcnfnotjwrurzichsr.ow,ruhwrtjogjwrcfihroe;ruhwrO,
nchhohsrohreireu.jrvixwridroe,raucsveroe,ruhwrtuyjwroeruxoyjrdniqrevj
wiskrrOrvuwrursnjuerqohwreirpnohsroerviqjrodrOraicxw,rdinrOrvuwridejh
pjjhrqctohsr vjevjnroerqosverhierpjrfittopxjreirsjerur.owrinre i,ruhwrti
nuotjrurpnjjwridreuqjrsiuet,r voavrqosvertcffxzrqjr vjhrqzrfi wjnruhw
tviertvicxwrpjruxxrtfjhekrrOrquwjruraixxunrdinrevotrxoeexjranjuecnj,ruhw
 oevrurtenohs,r voavrOrquwjridrtiqjrnifj-zuq,r voavrOrux uztraunnojw
upicerqj,rOrxjwrvoqruxihs,revicsvr oevrtiqjrwoddoacxez,reoxxrOrauqjreirqz
pi jn,ruhwrevjnjrOrjhaxitjwrvoqruhwrxjdervoq,rdinrOr utryjnzroqfueojherei
pjruerviqj,rdniqr vjhajrOrvuwrpjjhruptjherupiyjrurqihevk

Orauhhierjmfnjttr vuerurtueotduaeoihroer utreirqjreiraiqjroheirqzrixw
vceav,ruhwrxojrwi hrohrqzrvuqqia.-pjwkrrEvotrxoeexjr uhwjnohsrbicnhjz,
 oevicertjeexjwrfxuajridrupiwj,rvuwrpjjhrtirchfxjutuhereirqj,revuerqzri h
victj,rutrOrauxxjwroereirqztjxd,r utrurfjndjaertjeexjqjhereirqjraiqfunjw
eirevue;ruhwroernjhwjnjwrjyjnzevohsrupicerqjrtiraiqdineupxj,revuerO
njtixyjwrOr icxwrhjyjnrsirursnjuer uzrdniqroerusuohr voxjroertvicxwrpjrqz
xiereirteuzrihrevjrotxuhwk

Ornjfitjwrqztjxdrvjnjrur jj.,reirnjteruhwrnjsuxjrqztjxdrudejnrqzrxihs
bicnhjz;rwcnohsr voavrqiteridrevjreoqjr utreu.jhrcfrohrevjr josvezrudduon
idrqu.ohsrurausjrdinrqzrFixx,r virpjsuhrhi reirpjrurqjnjrwiqjteoa,ruhwrei
pjr jxxrualcuohejwr oevrqjkrrEvjhrOrpjsuhreirevoh.ridrevjrfiinr.owr voav
Orvuwrfjhhjwrohr oevohrqzrxoeexjraonaxj,ruhwrnjtixyjwreirsiruhwrdjeavroe
viqj,rinrsoyjroertiqjrdiiw;ruaainwohsxzrOr jhe,ruhwrdichwroer vjnjrOrxjde
oe,rdinrohwjjwroeraicxwrhiersjerice,rpcer utruxqiterteunyjwrdinr uherid
diiwkrrOr jheruhwracerpicsvtridrenjjt,ruhwrpnuhavjtridrtcavrtvncptrutrO
aicxwrdohw,ruhwrevnj roeriyjn,ruhwrvuyohsrdjwroe,rOreojwroerutrOrwow
pjdinj,reirxjuwroeru uz;rpceroer utrtireuqjr oevrpjohsrvchsnz,revuerOrvuw
hirhjjwreirvuyjreojwroe,rdinroerdixxi jwrqjrxo.jrurwis:ruhwrutrO
aiheohcuxxzrdjwroe,revjranjuecnjrpjauqjrtirxiyohs,rtirsjhexj,ruhwrti
dihw,revueroerpjauqjrdniqrevuereoqjrihjridrqzrwiqjteoatruxti,ruhwr icxw
hjyjnrxjuyjrqjrudejn unwtk

Evjrnuohzrtjutihridrevjrucecqhuxrjlcohimr utrhi raiqj,ruhwrOr.jferevj
30evridrTjfejqpjnrohrevjrtuqjrtixjqhrquhhjnrutrpjdinj,rpjohsrevj
uhhoyjntunzridrqzrxuhwohsrihrevjrotxuhw,rvuyohsrhi rpjjhrevjnjre irzjunt,
uhwrhirqinjrfnitfjaeridrpjohsrwjxoyjnjwrevuhrevjrdonterwuzrOrauqjrevjnj,
Ortfjherevjr vixjrwuzrohrvcqpxjruhwrevuh.dcxrua.hi xjwsqjhetridrevjrquhz
 ihwjndcxrqjnaojtr voavrqzrtixoeunzraihwoeoihr utrueejhwjwr oev,ruhw
 oevicer voavroerqosvervuyjrpjjhrohdohoejxzrqinjrqotjnupxjkrrOrsuyj
vcqpxjruhwrvjunezrevuh.trevuerSiwrvuwrpjjhrfxjutjwreirwotaiyjnreirqjrevue
oer utrfittopxjrOrqosverpjrqinjrvuffzrohrevotrtixoeunzraihwoeoihrevuhrO
tvicxwrvuyjrpjjhrohrevjrxopjnezridrtiaojez,ruhwrohruxxrevjrfxjutcnjtrid
evjr inxw;revuerVjraicxwrdcxxzrqu.jrcfreirqjrevjrwjdoaojhaojtridrqz
tixoeunzrteuej,ruhwrevjr uheridrvcquhrtiaojez,rpzrVotrfnjtjhajruhwrevj
aiqqchoaueoihtridrVotrsnuajreirqzrticx;rtcffineohs,raiqdineohs,ruhw
jhaicnusohsrqjreirwjfjhwrcfihrVotrfniyowjhajrvjnj,ruhwrvifjrdinrVot
jejnhuxrfnjtjhajrvjnjudejnk

Oer utrhi revuerOrpjsuhrtjhtopxzreirdjjxrvi rqcavrqinjrvuffzrevotrxodjrO
hi rxjwr ut,r oevruxxroetrqotjnupxjraonacqteuhajt,revuhrevjr oa.jw,
acntjw,rupiqohupxjrxodjrOrxjwruxxrevjrfuterfuneridrqzrwuzt;ruhwrhi rO
avuhsjwrpievrqzrtinni truhwrqzrbizt;rqzryjnzrwjtonjtruxejnjw,rqz
uddjaeoihtravuhsjwrevjonrsctet,ruhwrqzrwjxosvetr jnjrfjndjaexzrhj rdniq
 vuerevjzr jnjruerqzrdonteraiqohs,rin,rohwjjw,rdinrevjre irzjuntrfutek

Pjdinj,rutrOr ux.jwrupice,rjoevjnrihrqzrvcheohsrinrdinryoj ohsrevj
aichenz,revjruhscotvridrqzrticxruerqzraihwoeoihr icxwrpnju.ricercfihrqj
ihrurtcwwjh,ruhwrqzryjnzrvjuner icxwrwojr oevohrqj,reirevoh.ridrevj
 iiwt,revjrqicheuoht,revjrwjtjnetrOr utroh,ruhwrvi rOr utrurfnotihjn,
xia.jwrcfr oevrevjrjejnhuxrpuntruhwrpixetridrevjriajuh,rohruhrchohvupoejw
 oxwjnhjtt,r oevicernjwjqfeoihkrrOhrevjrqowteridrevjrsnjuejteraiqfitcnj
idrqzrqohw,revotr icxwrpnju.ricercfihrqjrxo.jrurteinq,ruhwrqu.jrqjr nohs
qzrvuhwtruhwr jjfrxo.jruravoxwkrrTiqjeoqjtroer icxwreu.jrqjrohrevjrqowwxj
idrqzr in.,ruhwrOr icxwroqqjwouejxzrtoerwi hruhwrtosv,ruhwrxii.rcfihrevj
snichwrdinruhrvicnrinre ireisjevjn;ruhwrevotr utrteoxxr intjreirqj,rdin
odrOraicxwrpcntericeroheirejunt,rinryjherqztjxdrpzr inwt,roer icxwrsi
idd,ruhwrevjrsnojd,rvuyohsrjmvuctejwroetjxd,r icxwrupuejk

Pcerhi rOrpjsuhreirjmjnaotjrqztjxdr oevrhj revicsvet:rOrwuoxzrnjuwrevj
 inwridrSiw,ruhwruffxojwruxxrevjraiqdinetridroereirqzrfnjtjherteuejkrrIhj
qinhohs,rpjohsryjnzrtuw,rOrifjhjwrevjrPopxjrcfihrevjtjr inwt,r“Or oxx
hjyjn,rhjyjnrxjuyjrevjj,rhinrdintu.jrevjjk”rrOqqjwouejxzroeriaacnnjwrevue
evjtjr inwtr jnjreirqj;r vzrjxtjrtvicxwrevjzrpjrwonjaejwrohrtcavru
quhhjn,rbcteruerevjrqiqjher vjhrOr utrqicnhohsriyjnrqzraihwoeoih,rutrihj
dintu.jhridrSiwruhwrquh?rr“ jxx,revjh,”rtuowrO,r“odrSiwrwijtrhierdintu.j
qj,ridr vueroxxraihtjlcjhajrauhroerpj,rinr vuerqueejntroe,revicsvrevj
 inxwrtvicxwruxxrdintu.jrqj,rtjjohsrihrevjrievjnrvuhw,rodrOrvuwruxxrevj
 inxw,ruhwrtvicxwrxitjrevjrduyicnruhwrpxjttohsridrSiw,revjnjr icxwrpjrhi
aiqfunotihrohrevjrxitt?”

DniqrevotrqiqjherOrpjsuhreiraihaxcwjrohrqzrqohwrevueroer utrfittopxjrdin
qjreirpjrqinjrvuffzrohrevotrdintu.jh,rtixoeunzraihwoeoihrevuhroer ut
fnipupxjrOrtvicxwrjyjnrvuyjrpjjhrohruhzrievjnrfuneoacxunrteuejrohrevj
 inxw;ruhwr oevrevotrevicsverOr utrsiohsreirsoyjrevuh.treirSiwrdin
pnohsohsrqjreirevotrfxuajkrrOr.hi rhier vueroer ut,rpcertiqjevohsrtvia.jw
qzrqohwruerevuerevicsve,ruhwrOrwcnterhiertfju.revjr inwtkrr“Vi rauhte
evicrpjaiqjrtcavrurvzfianoej,”rtuowrO,rjyjhrucwopxz,r“eirfnjejhwreirpj
evuh.dcxrdinruraihwoeoihr voav,rvi jyjnrevicrquzjterjhwjuyicnreirpj
aihejhejwr oev,revicr icxwternuevjnrfnuzrvjuneoxzreirpjrwjxoyjnjwrdniq?”
TirOrteiffjwrevjnj;rpcerevicsvrOraicxwrhiertuzrOrevuh.jwrSiwrdinrpjohs
evjnj,rzjerOrtohajnjxzrsuyjrevuh.treirSiwrdinrifjhohsrqzrjzjt,rpz
 vuejyjnruddxoaeohsrfniyowjhajt,reirtjjrevjrdinqjnraihwoeoihridrqzrxodj,
uhwreirqicnhrdinrqzr oa.jwhjtt,ruhwrnjfjhekrrOrhjyjnrifjhjwrevjrPopxj,rin
tvceroe,rpcerqzryjnzrticxr oevohrqjrpxjttjwrSiwrdinrwonjaeohsrqzrdnojhw
ohrJhsxuhw,r oeviceruhzrinwjnridrqohj,reirfua.roercfruqihsrqzrsiiwt,ruhw
dinruttoteohsrqjrudejn unwtreirtuyjroericeridrevjr nja.ridrevjrtvofk

Evct,ruhwrohrevotrwotfitoeoihridrqohw,rOrpjsuhrqzrevonwrzjun;ruhwrevicsv
Orvuyjrhiersoyjhrevjrnjuwjnrevjrenicpxjridrtirfuneoacxunruhruaaicheridrqz
 in.trevotrzjunrutrevjrdonte,rzjerohrsjhjnuxroerquzrpjriptjnyjwrevuerO
 utryjnzrtjxwiqrowxj,rpcervuyohsrnjscxunxzrwoyowjwrqzreoqjruaainwohsrei
evjrtjyjnuxrwuoxzrjqfxizqjhetrevuer jnjrpjdinjrqj,rtcavrut:rdonte,rqz
wcezreirSiw,ruhwrevjrnjuwohsrevjrTanofecnjt,r voavrOraihteuhexzrtjerufune
tiqjreoqjrdinrevnoajrjyjnzrwuz;rtjaihwxz,revjrsiohsrupniuwr oevrqzrsch
dinrdiiw,r voavrsjhjnuxxzreii.rqjrcfrevnjjrvicntrohrjyjnzrqinhohs,r vjh
oerwowrhiernuoh;revonwxz,revjrinwjnohs,raceeohs,rfnjtjnyohs,ruhwraii.ohs
 vuerOrvuwr.oxxjwrinraucsverdinrqzrtcffxz;revjtjreii.rcfrsnjuerfunerid
evjrwuzkrrUxti,roerotreirpjraihtowjnjw,revuerohrevjrqowwxjridrevjrwuz,
 vjhrevjrtchr utrohrevjrgjhoev,revjryoixjhajridrevjrvjuer utreiirsnjuerei
teonrice;rtirevuerupicerdicnrvicntrohrevjrjyjhohsr utruxxrevjreoqjrO
aicxwrpjrtcffitjwreir in.roh,r oevrevotrjmajfeoih,revuertiqjeoqjtrO
avuhsjwrqzrvicntridrvcheohsruhwr in.ohs,ruhwr jhereir in.rohrevjrqinhohs,
uhwrupniuwr oevrqzrschrohrevjrudejnhiihk

Eirevotrtvinereoqjruxxi jwrdinrxupicnrOrwjtonjrquzrpjruwwjwrevjrjmajjwohs
xupinoicthjttridrqzr in.;revjrquhzrvicntr voav,rdinr uheridreiixt,r uhe
idrvjxf,ruhwr uheridrt.oxx,rjyjnzevohsrOrwowreii.rcfriceridrqzreoqjkrrDin
jmuqfxj,rOr utrdcxxre iruhwrdinezrwuztrohrqu.ohsrurpiunwrdinrurxihs
tvjxd,r voavrOr uhejwrohrqzrauyj;r vjnjut,re irtu zjnt,r oevrevjonreiixt
uhwrurtu -foe,r icxwrvuyjracertomridrevjqriceridrevjrtuqjrenjjrohrvuxdru
wuzk

Qzrautjr utrevot:roer utreirpjrurxunsjrenjjr voavr utreirpjracerwi h,
pjauctjrqzrpiunwr utreirpjrurpniuwrihjkrrEvotrenjjrOr utrevnjjrwuztroh
aceeohsrwi h,ruhwre irqinjraceeohsriddrevjrpicsvt,ruhwrnjwcaohsroereiru
xisrinrfojajridreoqpjnkrr oevrohjmfnjttopxjrvua.ohsruhwrvj ohsrOrnjwcajw
pievrevjrtowjtridroeroheiravoftreoxxroerpjsuhreirpjrxosverjhicsvreirqiyj;
evjhrOrecnhjwroe,ruhwrquwjrihjrtowjridroertqiievruhwrdxuerutrurpiunwrdniq
jhwreirjhw;revjh,recnhohsrevuertowjrwi h unw,racerevjrievjnrtowjreoxrO
pnicsverevjrfxuh.reirpjrupicerevnjjrohavjtrevoa.,ruhwrtqiievrihrpiev
towjtkrrUhzrihjrquzrbcwsjrevjrxupicnridrqzrvuhwtrohrtcavrurfojajridr in.;
pcerxupicnruhwrfueojhajraunnojwrqjrevnicsvrevue,ruhwrquhzrievjnrevohstk
Orihxzriptjnyjrevotrohrfuneoacxun,reirtvi revjrnjutihr vzrtirqcavridrqz
eoqjr jheru uzr oevrtirxoeexjr in.—yogkrevuer vuerqosverpjrurxoeexjreirpj
wihjr oevrvjxfruhwreiixt,r utruryuterxupicnruhwrnjlconjwrurfniwosoict
eoqjreirwiruxihj,ruhwrpzrvuhwkrrPcerhie oevteuhwohsrevot,r oevrfueojhaj
uhwrxupicnrOrsierevnicsvrjyjnzevohsrevuerqzraonacqteuhajtrquwjrhjajttunz
eirqjreirwi,rutr oxxruffjunrpzr vuerdixxi tk

Or utrhi ,rohrevjrqihevtridrHiyjqpjnruhwrWjajqpjn,rjmfjaeohsrqzranifrid
punxjzruhwrnoajkrrEvjrsnichwrOrvuwrquhcnjwruhwrwcsrcfrdinrevjqr utrhie
snjue;rdin,rutrOriptjnyjw,rqzrtjjwridrjuavr utrhierupiyjrevjrlcuheoezrid
vuxdrurfja.,rdinrOrvuwrxiterihjr vixjranifrpzrti ohsrohrevjrwnzrtjutihk
Pcerhi rqzranifrfniqotjwryjnzr jxx,r vjhrihrurtcwwjhrOrdichwrOr utroh
wuhsjnridrxitohsroeruxxrusuohrpzrjhjqojtridrtjyjnuxrtinet,r voavroer ut
taunajxzrfittopxjreir.jjfrdniqroe;rut,rdonte,revjrsiuet,ruhwr oxw
anjuecnjtr voavrOrauxxjwrvunjt,r vi,reuteohsrevjrt jjehjttridrevjrpxuwj,
xuzrohroerhosveruhwrwuz,rutrtiihrutroerauqjrcf,ruhwrjueroertiraxitj,revue
oeraicxwrsjerhireoqjreirtviiercfroheirteux.k

EvotrOrtu rhirnjqjwzrdinrpcerpzrqu.ohsruhrjhaxitcnjrupiceroer oevru
vjwsj;r voavrOrwowr oevrursnjuerwjuxridreiox,ruhwrevjrqinj,rpjauctjroe
njlconjwrtfjjwkrrVi jyjn,rutrqzrunupxjrxuhwr utrpcertquxx,rtcoejwreirqz
anif,rOrsieroereieuxxzr jxxrdjhajwrohrupicerevnjjr jj.t’reoqj;ruhw
tviieohsrtiqjridrevjranjuecnjtrohrevjrwuzeoqj,rOrtjerqzrwisreirscunwroe
ohrevjrhosve,rezohsrvoqrcfreirurteu.jruerevjrsuej,r vjnjrvjr icxwrteuhw
uhwrpun.ruxxrhosverxihs;rtirohrurxoeexjreoqjrevjrjhjqojtrdintii.revj
fxuaj,ruhwrevjrainhrsnj ryjnzrtenihsruhwr jxx,ruhwrpjsuhreirnofjhrufuajk

Pcerutrevjrpjutetrncohjwrqjrpjdinj,r voxjrqzrainhr utrohrevjrpxuwj,rti
evjrponwtr jnjrutrxo.jxzreirncohrqjrhi ,r vjhroer utrohrevjrjun;rdin,
siohsruxihsrpzrevjrfxuajreirtjjrvi roerevniyj,rOrtu rqzrxoeexjranif
tcnnichwjwr oevrdi xt,ridrOr.hi rhiervi rquhzrtinet,r virteiiw,rutroe
 jnj,r ueavohsreoxxrOrtvicxwrpjrsihjkrrOroqqjwouejxzrxjerdxzruqihsrevjq,
dinrOrux uztrvuwrqzrschr oevrqjkrrOrvuwrhirtiihjnrtvie,rpcerevjnjrnitjrcf
urxoeexjraxicwridrdi xt,r voavrOrvuwrhiertjjhrueruxx,rdniqruqihsrevjrainh
oetjxdk

Evotreicavjwrqjrtjhtopxz,rdinrOrdinjtu revuerohrurdj rwuztrevjzr icxw
wjyicnruxxrqzrvifjt;revuerOrtvicxwrpjrteunyjw,ruhwrhjyjnrpjrupxjreirnuotj
uranifrueruxx;ruhwr vuereirwirOraicxwrhierejxx;rvi jyjn,rOrnjtixyjwrhie
eirxitjrqzrainh,rodrfittopxj,revicsvrOrtvicxwr ueavroerhosveruhwrwuzkrrOh
evjrdonterfxuaj,rOr jheruqihsroereirtjjr vuerwuqusjr utruxnjuwzrwihj,ruhw
dichwrevjzrvuwrtfioxjwrursiiwrwjuxridroe;rpcerevuerutroer utrzjereii
snjjhrdinrevjq,revjrxittr utrhiertirsnjuerpcerevuerevjrnjquohwjnr ut
xo.jxzreirpjrursiiwranifrodroeraicxwrpjrtuyjwk

Orteuzjwrpzroereirxiuwrqzrsch,ruhwrevjhraiqohsru uz,rOraicxwrjutoxzrtjj
evjrevojyjtrtoeeohsrcfihruxxrevjrenjjtrupicerqj,rutrodrevjzrihxzr uoejw
eoxxrOr utrsihjru uz,ruhwrevjrjyjherfniyjwroereirpjrti;rdinrutrOr ux.jw
idd,rutrodrOr utrsihj,rOr utrhirtiihjnriceridrevjonrtosverevuhrevjz
wniffjwrwi hrihjrpzrihjroheirevjrainhrusuohkrrOr utrtirfniyi.jw,revuerO
aicxwrhiervuyjrfueojhajreirteuzreoxxrqinjrauqjrih,r.hi ohsrevuerjyjnz
snuohrevuerevjzruejrhi r ut,rutroerqosverpjrtuow,rurfja.-xiudreirqjroh
evjraihtjlcjhaj;rpceraiqohsrcfreirevjrvjwsj,rOrdonjwrusuoh,ruhwr.oxxjw
evnjjridrevjqkrrEvotr utr vuerOr otvjwrdin;rtirOreii.revjqrcf,ruhwrtjnyjw
evjqrutr jrtjnyjrhieinoictrevojyjtrohrJhsxuhw—vuhsjwrevjqrohravuoht,rdin
urejnninreirievjntkrrOerotroqfittopxjreiroqusohjrevuerevotrtvicxwrvuyj
tcavruhrjddjaerutroervuw,rdinrevjrdi xtr icxwrhierihxzrhieraiqjruerevj
ainh,rpce,rohrtvine,revjzrdintii.ruxxrevuerfuneridrevjrotxuhw,ruhwrO
aicxwrhjyjnrtjjrurponwrhjunrevjrfxuajrutrxihsrutrqzrtaunjani trvchs
evjnjkrrEvotrOr utryjnzrsxuwrid,rzicrquzrpjrtcnj,ruhwrupicerevjrxueejn
jhwridrWjajqpjn,r voavr utricnrtjaihwrvunyjteridrevjrzjun,rOrnjufjwrqz
ainhk

Or utrtuwxzrfcereiroerdinrurtazevjrinrtoa.xjreiraceroerwi h,ruhwruxxrO
aicxwrwir utreirqu.jrihj,rutr jxxrutrOraicxw,riceridrihjridrevj
pniuwt inwt,rinracexuttjt,r voavrOrtuyjwruqihsrevjrunqtriceridrevjrtvofk
Vi jyjn,rutrqzrdonteranifr utrpcertquxx,rOrvuwrhirsnjuerwoddoacxezreirace
oerwi h;rohrtvine,rOrnjufjwroerohrqzr uz,rdinrOracerhievohsriddrpcerevj
junt,ruhwraunnojwroeru uzrohrursnjuerput.jer voavrOrvuwrquwj,ruhwrti
ncppjwroericer oevrqzrvuhwt;ruhwruerevjrjhwridruxxrqzrvunyjteohs,rOrdichw
evuericeridrqzrvuxd-fja.ridrtjjwrOrvuwrhjunre irpctvjxtridrnoaj,ruhw
upicere irpctvjxtruhwrurvuxdridrpunxjz;revuerotreirtuz,rpzrqzrscjtt,rdin
Orvuwrhirqjutcnjruerevuereoqjk

Vi jyjn,revotr utrursnjuerjhaicnusjqjhereirqj,ruhwrOrdinjtu revue,roh
eoqj,roer icxwrfxjutjrSiwreirtcffxzrqjr oevrpnjuwkrrUhwrzjervjnjrOr ut
fjnfxjmjwrusuoh,rdinrOrhjoevjnr.hj rvi reirsnohwrinrqu.jrqjuxridrqzrainh,
inrohwjjwrvi reiraxjuhroeruhwrfuneroe;rhin,rodrquwjroheirqjux,rvi rei
qu.jrpnjuwridroe;ruhwrodrvi reirqu.jroe,rzjerOr.hj rhiervi reirpu.jroek
Evjtjrevohstrpjohsruwwjwreirqzrwjtonjridrvuyohsrursiiwrlcuheoezrdin
teinj,ruhwreirtjacnjruraihteuhertcffxz,rOrnjtixyjwrhiereireutejruhzrid
evotranifrpcereirfnjtjnyjroeruxxrdinrtjjwrusuohterevjrhjmertjutih;ruhwroh
evjrqjuheoqjreirjqfxizruxxrqzrtecwzruhwrvicntridr in.ohsreiruaaiqfxotv
evotrsnjuer in.ridrfniyowohsrqztjxdr oevrainhruhwrpnjuwk

Oerqosverpjrencxzrtuow,revuerhi rOr in.jwrdinrqzrpnjuwkrrOrpjxojyjrdj 
fjifxjrvuyjrevicsverqcavrcfihrevjrtenuhsjrqcxeoecwjridrxoeexjrevohst
hjajttunzrohrevjrfniyowohs,rfniwcaohs,racnohs,rwnjttohs,rqu.ohs,ruhw
dohotvohsrevotrihjruneoaxjridrpnjuwk

O,revuer utrnjwcajwreirurqjnjrteuejridrhuecnj,rdichwrevotreirqzrwuoxz
wotaicnusjqjhe;ruhwr utrquwjrqinjrtjhtopxjridroerjyjnzrvicn,rjyjhrudejnrO
vuwrsierevjrdontervuhwdcxridrtjjw-ainh,r voav,rutrOrvuyjrtuow,rauqjrcf
chjmfjaejwxz,ruhwrohwjjwreirurtcnfnotjk

Donte,rOrvuwrhirfxicsvreirecnhrcfrevjrjunev—hirtfuwjrinrtviyjxreirwosroek
 jxx,revotrOraihlcjnjwrpzrqu.ohsrqjrur iiwjhrtfuwj,rutrOriptjnyjwrpjdinj;
pcerevotrwowrqzr in.rpcerohrur iiwjhrquhhjn;ruhwrevicsvroeraiterqjru
snjuerquhzrwuztreirqu.jroe,rzje,rdinr uheridronih,roerhierihxzr injrice
tiih,rpcerquwjrqzr in.revjrvunwjn,ruhwrquwjroerpjrfjndinqjwrqcavr intjk
Vi jyjn,revotrOrpinjr oev,ruhwr utraihejhereir in.roericer oevrfueojhaj,
uhwrpjunr oevrevjrpuwhjttridrevjrfjndinquhajkrr vjhrevjrainhr utrti h,rO
vuwrhirvunni ,rpcer utrdinajwreirsiriyjnroerqztjxd,ruhwrwnusrursnjue
vjuyzrpicsvridrurenjjriyjnroe,reirtanueavroe,rutroerquzrpjrauxxjw,rnuevjn
evuhrnu.jrinrvunni roekrr vjhroer utrsni ohs,ruhwrsni h,rOrvuyjriptjnyjw
uxnjuwzrvi rquhzrevohstrOr uhejwreirdjhajroe,rtjacnjroe,rqi rinrnjufroe,
acnjruhwraunnzroerviqj,revnutv,rfuneroerdniqrevjravudd,ruhwrtuyjroek
EvjhrOr uhejwrurqoxxreirsnohwroe,rtojyjtreirwnjttroe,rzjuteruhwrtuxerei
qu.jroeroheirpnjuw,ruhwruhriyjhreirpu.jroe;rpceruxxrevjtjrevohstrOrwow
 oevice,rutrtvuxxrpjriptjnyjw;ruhwrzjerevjrainhr utruhrohjteoqupxj
aiqdineruhwruwyuheusjreirqjreiikrrUxxrevot,rutrOrtuow,rquwjrjyjnzevohs
xupinoictruhwrejwoictreirqj;rpcerevuerevjnjr utrhirvjxfrdinkrrHjoevjnr ut
qzreoqjrtirqcavrxittreirqj,rpjauctj,rutrOrvuwrwoyowjwroe,rurajneuohrfune
idroer utrjyjnzrwuzruffiohejwreirevjtjr in.t;ruhwrutrOrvuwrnjtixyjwrei
ctjrhihjridrevjrainhrdinrpnjuwreoxxrOrvuwrursnjuejnrlcuheoezrpzrqj,rOrvuw
evjrhjmertomrqihevtreiruffxzrqztjxdr vixxz,rpzrxupicnruhwrohyjheoih,rei
dcnhotvrqztjxdr oevrcejhtoxtrfnifjnrdinrevjrfjndinqohsruxxrevjrifjnueoiht
hjajttunzrdinrqu.ohsrevjrainh,r vjhrOrvuwroe,rdoerdinrqzrctjk




AVUFEJNrOM—UrPIUE


PcerdonterOr utreirfnjfunjrqinjrxuhw,rdinrOrvuwrhi rtjjwrjhicsvreirti 
upiyjruhruanjridrsnichwkrrPjdinjrOrwowrevot,rOrvuwrur jj.’tr in.ruerxjute
eirqu.jrqjrurtfuwj,r voav,r vjhroer utrwihj,r utrpcerurtinnzrihjrohwjjw,
uhwryjnzrvjuyz,ruhwrnjlconjwrwicpxjrxupicnreir in.r oevroekrrVi jyjn,rO
sierevnicsvrevue,ruhwrti jwrqzrtjjwrohre irxunsjrdxuerfojajtridrsnichw,
utrhjunrqzrvictjrutrOraicxwrdohwrevjqreirqzrqohw,ruhwrdjhajwrevjqrohr oev
ursiiwrvjwsj,revjrteu.jtridr voavr jnjruxxraceriddrevuer iiwr voavrOrvuw
tjerpjdinj,ruhwr.hj roer icxwrsni ;rtirevue,rohrurzjun’treoqj,rOr.hj rO
tvicxwrvuyjrurlcoa.rinrxoyohsrvjwsj,revuer icxwr uherpcerxoeexjrnjfuonk
Evotr in.rwowrhiereu.jrqjrcfrxjttrevuhrevnjjrqihevt,rpjauctjrursnjuerfune
idrevuereoqjr utrevjr jertjutih,r vjhrOraicxwrhiersirupniuwk
 oevoh-wiint,revuerotr vjhroernuohjwruhwrOraicxwrhiersirice,rOrdichw
jqfxizqjherohrevjrdixxi ohsriaacfueoiht—ux uztriptjnyohs,revueruxxrevj
 voxjrOr utruer in.rOrwoyjnejwrqztjxdr oevreux.ohsreirqzrfunnie,ruhw
ejuavohsrvoqreirtfju.;ruhwrOrlcoa.xzreucsvervoqreir.hi rvotri hrhuqj,ruhw
uerxutereirtfju.roericerfnjeezrxicw,r“Fixx,”r voavr utrevjrdonter inwrO
jyjnrvjunwrtfi.jhrohrevjrotxuhwrpzruhzrqicevrpcerqzri hkrrEvot,
evjnjdinj,r utrhierqzr in.,rpceruhruttoteuhajreirqzr in.;rdinrhi ,rutrO
tuow,rOrvuwrursnjuerjqfxizqjhercfihrqzrvuhwt,rutrdixxi t:rOrvuwrxihs
tecwojwreirqu.j,rpzrtiqjrqjuhtrinrievjn,rtiqjrjunevjhryjttjxt,r voav,
ohwjjw,rOr uhejwrtinjxz,rpcer.hj rhier vjnjreiraiqjruerevjqkrrVi jyjn,
aihtowjnohsrevjrvjueridrevjraxoquej,rOrwowrhierwicperpcerodrOraicxwrdohw
iceruhzraxuz,rOrqosverqu.jrtiqjrfietrevuerqosve,rpjohsrwnojwrohrevjrtch,
pjrvunwrjhicsvruhwrtenihsrjhicsvreirpjunrvuhwxohs,ruhwreirvixwruhzevohs
evuer utrwnz,ruhwrnjlconjwreirpjr.jferti;ruhwrutrevotr utrhjajttunzroh
evjrfnjfunohsrainh,rqjux,r&ak,r voavr utrevjrevohsrOr utrwiohs,rO
njtixyjwreirqu.jrtiqjrutrxunsjrutrOraicxw,ruhwrdoerihxzreirteuhwrxo.j
bunt,reirvixwr vuertvicxwrpjrfceroheirevjqk

Oer icxwrqu.jrevjrnjuwjnrfoezrqj,rinrnuevjnrxucsvruerqj,reirejxxrvi rquhz
u . unwr uztrOreii.reirnuotjrevotrfutej;r vueriww,rqottvufjh,rcsxzrevohst
Orquwj;rvi rquhzridrevjqrdjxxrohruhwrvi rquhzrdjxxrice,revjraxuzrhie
pjohsrteoddrjhicsvreirpjunroetri hr josve;rvi rquhzranua.jwrpzrevj
iyjn-yoixjhervjueridrevjrtch,rpjohsrtjericereiirvuteoxz;ruhwrvi rquhz
djxxrohrfojajtr oevrihxzrnjqiyohs,rutr jxxrpjdinjrutrudejnrevjzr jnj
wnojw;ruhw,rohrur inw,rvi ,rudejnrvuyohsrxupicnjwrvunwreirdohwrevj
axuz—eirwosroe,reirejqfjnroe,reirpnohsroerviqj,ruhwr in.roe—Oraicxwrhie
qu.jrupiyjre irxunsjrjunevjhrcsxzrevohstr(Orauhhierauxxrevjqrbunt)roh
upicere irqihevt’rxupicnk

Vi jyjn,rutrevjrtchrpu.jwrevjtjre iryjnzrwnzruhwrvunw,rOrxodejwrevjqryjnz
sjhexzrcf,ruhwrtjerevjqrwi hrusuohrohre irsnjuer oa.jnrput.jet,r voavrO
vuwrquwjrihrfcnfitjrdinrevjq,revuerevjzrqosverhierpnju.;ruhwrutrpje jjh
evjrfieruhwrevjrput.jerevjnjr utrurxoeexjrniiqreirtfunj,rOrtecddjwroe
dcxxridrevjrnoajruhwrpunxjzrtenu ;ruhwrevjtjre irfietrpjohsreirteuhw
ux uztrwnzrOrevicsver icxwrvixwrqzrwnzrainh,ruhwrfjnvuftrevjrqjux,r vjh
evjrainhr utrpncotjwk

EvicsvrOrqotaunnojwrtirqcavrohrqzrwjtoshrdinrxunsjrfiet,rzjerOrquwj
tjyjnuxrtquxxjnrevohstr oevrpjeejnrtcaajtt;rtcavrutrxoeexjrnichwrfiet,
dxuerwotvjt,rfoeavjnt,ruhwrfof.oht,ruhwruhzrevohstrqzrvuhwrecnhjwrei;ruhw
evjrvjueridrevjrtchrpu.jwrevjqrlcoejrvunwk

Pceruxxrevotr icxwrhieruht jnrqzrjhw,r voavr utreirsjeruhrjunevjhrfierei
vixwr vuer utrxolcow,ruhwrpjunrevjrdonj,r voavrhihjridrevjtjraicxwrwik
Oervuffjhjwrudejnrtiqjreoqj,rqu.ohsrurfnjeezrxunsjrdonjrdinraii.ohsrqz
qjue,r vjhrOr jhereirfceroericerudejnrOrvuwrwihjr oevroe,rOrdichwru
pni.jhrfojajridrihjridrqzrjunevjh unjryjttjxtrohrevjrdonj,rpcnherutrvunw
utrurteihj,ruhwrnjwrutrureoxjkrrOr utrusnjjupxzrtcnfnotjwreirtjjroe,ruhw
tuowreirqztjxd,revuerajneuohxzrevjzrqosverpjrquwjreirpcnhr vixj,rodrevjz
 icxwrpcnhrpni.jhk

Evotrtjerqjreirtecwzrvi reirinwjnrqzrdonj,rtirutreirqu.jroerpcnhrtiqj
fietkrrOrvuwrhirhieoihridrur.oxh,rtcavrutrevjrfieejntrpcnhroh,rinrid
sxugohsrevjqr oevrxjuw,revicsvrOrvuwrtiqjrxjuwreirwiroer oev;rpcerO
fxuajwrevnjjrxunsjrfof.ohtruhwre irinrevnjjrfietrohrurfoxj,rihjrcfih
uhievjn,ruhwrfxuajwrqzrdonj iiwruxxrnichwroe,r oevrursnjuervjufridrjqpjnt
chwjnrevjqkrrOrfxojwrevjrdonjr oevrdnjtvrdcjxrnichwrevjricetowjruhwrcfih
evjreif,reoxxrOrtu revjrfietrohrevjrohtowjrnjw-vierlcoejrevnicsv,ruhw
iptjnyjwrevuerevjzrwowrhieranua.rueruxxkrr vjhrOrtu revjqraxjunrnjw,rO
xjerevjqrteuhwrohrevuervjuerupicerdoyjrinrtomrvicnt,reoxxrOrdichwrihjrid
evjq,revicsvroerwowrhieranua.,rwowrqjxerinrnch;rdinrevjrtuhwr voavr ut
qomjwr oevrevjraxuzrqjxejwrpzrevjryoixjhajridrevjrvjue,ruhwr icxwrvuyj
nchroheirsxuttrodrOrvuwrsihjrih;rtirOrtxua.jwrqzrdonjrsnuwcuxxzreoxxrevj
fietrpjsuhreirupuejridrevjrnjwraixicn;ruhwr ueavohsrevjqruxxrhosve,revue
Orqosverhierxjerevjrdonjrupuejreiirdute,rohrevjrqinhohsrOrvuwrevnjjryjnz
siiwr(Or oxxrhiertuzrvuhwtiqj)rfof.oht,ruhwre irievjnrjunevjhrfiet,rut
vunwrpcnherutraicxwrpjrwjtonjw,ruhwrihjridrevjqrfjndjaexzrsxugjwr oevrevj
nchhohsridrevjrtuhwk

Udejnrevotrjmfjnoqjhe,rOrhjjwrhiertuzrevuerOr uhejwrhirtinerid
junevjh unjrdinrqzrctj;rpcerOrqcterhjjwtrtuzrutreirevjrtvufjtridrevjq,
evjzr jnjryjnzrohwoddjnjhe,rutruhzrihjrquzrtcffitj,r vjhrOrvuwrhir uzrid
qu.ohsrevjqrpcerutrevjravoxwnjhrqu.jrwonerfojt,rinrutrur iquhr icxwrqu.j
fojtrevuerhjyjnrxjunhjwreirnuotjrfutejk

Hirbizruerurevohsridrtirqjuhrurhuecnjr utrjyjnrjlcuxreirqohj,r vjhrO
dichwrOrvuwrquwjruhrjunevjhrfierevuer icxwrpjunrevjrdonj;ruhwrOrvuw
vunwxzrfueojhajreirteuzreoxxrevjzr jnjraixwrpjdinjrOrtjerihjrihrevjrdonj
usuohr oevrtiqjr uejnrohroereirpioxrqjrtiqjrqjue,r voavroerwowruwqonupxz
 jxx;ruhwr oevrurfojajridrur.owrOrquwjrtiqjryjnzrsiiwrpniev,revicsvrO
 uhejwriueqjux,ruhwrtjyjnuxrievjnrohsnjwojhetrnjlcotoejreirqu.jroerut
siiwrutrOr icxwrvuyjrvuwroerpjjhk

Qzrhjmeraihajnhr utreirsjerqjrurteihjrqineunreirteuqfrinrpjuertiqjrainh
oh;rdinrutreirevjrqoxx,revjnjr utrhirevicsveridrunnoyohsruerevue
fjndjaeoihridruner oevrihjrfuonridrvuhwtkrrEirtcffxzrevotr uhe,rOr utrue
ursnjuerxitt;rdin,ridruxxrevjrenuwjtrohrevjr inxw,rOr utrutrfjndjaexz
chlcuxodojwrdinrurteihj-aceejnrutrdinruhzr vuejyjn;rhjoevjnrvuwrOruhz
eiixtreirsirupiceroer oevkrrOrtfjherquhzrurwuzreirdohwricerursnjuerteihj
posrjhicsvreiracervixxi ,ruhwrqu.jrdoerdinrurqineun,ruhwraicxwrdohwrhihj
ueruxx,rjmajfer vuer utrohrevjrtixowrnia.,ruhwr voavrOrvuwrhir uzreirwos
inracerice;rhinrohwjjwr jnjrevjrnia.trohrevjrotxuhwridrvunwhjtt
tcddoaojhe,rpcer jnjruxxridrurtuhwz,rancqpxohsrteihj,r voavrhjoevjnr icxw
pjunrevjr josveridrurvjuyzrfjtexj,rhinr icxwrpnju.revjrainhr oevice
doxxohsroer oevrtuhwkrrTi,rudejnrursnjuerwjuxridreoqjrxiterohrtjunavohs
dinrurteihj,rOrsuyjroeriyjn,ruhwrnjtixyjwreirxii.ricerdinrursnjuerpxia.
idrvunwr iiw,r voavrOrdichw,rohwjjw,rqcavrjutojn;ruhwrsjeeohsrihjrutrpos
utrOrvuwrtenjhsevreirteon,rOrnichwjwroe,ruhwrdinqjwroerihrevjricetowj
 oevrqzrumjruhwrvueavje,ruhwrevjhr oevrevjrvjxfridrdonjruhwrohdohoej
xupicn,rquwjrurvixxi rfxuajrohroe,rutrevjrOhwouhtrohrPnugoxrqu.jrevjon
auhijtkrrUdejnrevot,rOrquwjrursnjuervjuyzrfjtexjrinrpjuejnridrevjr iiw
auxxjwrevjronih- iiw;ruhwrevotrOrfnjfunjwruhwrxuowrpzrusuohterOrvuwrqz
hjmeranifridrainh,r voavrOrfnifitjwreirqztjxdreirsnohw,rinrnuevjnrfichw
oheirqjuxreirqu.jrpnjuwk

Qzrhjmerwoddoacxezr utreirqu.jrurtojyjrinrtjunaj,reirwnjttrqzrqjux,ruhw
eirfuneroerdniqrevjrpnuhruhwrevjrvct.;r oevicer voavrOrwowrhiertjjroe
fittopxjrOraicxwrvuyjruhzrpnjuwkrrEvotr utrurqiterwoddoacxerevohsrjyjhrei
evoh.rih,rdinreirpjrtcnjrOrvuwrhievohsrxo.jrevjrhjajttunzrevohsreirqu.j
oe—OrqjuhrdohjrevohrauhyutrinrtecddreirtjunajrevjrqjuxrevnicsvkrrUhwrvjnj
Or utruerurdcxxrteifrdinrquhzrqihevt;rhinrwowrOrnjuxxzr.hi r vuereirwik
XohjhrOrvuwrhihjrxjderpcer vuer utrqjnjrnust;rOrvuwrsiue’trvuon,rpce
hjoevjnr.hj rvi reir juyjroerinrtfohroe;ruhwrvuwrOr.hi hrvi ,rvjnjr jnj
hireiixtreir in.roer oevkrrUxxrevjrnjqjwzrevuerOrdichwrdinrevotr ut,revue
uerxuterOrwowrnjqjqpjnrOrvuw,ruqihsrevjrtjuqjh’traxievjtr voavr jnjrtuyjw
iceridrevjrtvof,rtiqjrhja.axievtridrauxoairinrqctxoh;ruhwr oevrtiqj
fojajtridrevjtjrOrquwjrevnjjrtquxxrtojyjtrfnifjnrjhicsvrdinrevjr in.;ruhw
evctrOrquwjrtvoderdinrtiqjrzjunt:rvi rOrwowrudejn unwt,rOrtvuxxrtvi roh
oetrfxuajk

Evjrpu.ohsrfuner utrevjrhjmerevohsreirpjraihtowjnjw,ruhwrvi rOrtvicxw
qu.jrpnjuwr vjhrOrauqjreirvuyjrainh;rdinrdonte,rOrvuwrhirzjutekrrUtrei
evuerfune,revjnjr utrhirtcffxzohsrevjr uhe,rtirOrwowrhieraihajnhrqztjxd
qcavrupiceroekrrPcerdinruhriyjhrOr utrohwjjwrohrsnjuerfuohkrrUerxjhsevrO
dichwriceruhrjmfjnoqjherdinrevueruxti,r voavr utrevot:rOrquwjrtiqj
junevjh-yjttjxtryjnzrpniuwrpcerhierwjjf,revuerotreirtuz,rupicere irdjje
wouqjejn,ruhwrhierupiyjrhohjrohavjtrwjjfkrrEvjtjrOrpcnhjwrohrevjrdonj,rut
Orvuwrwihjrevjrievjn,ruhwrxuowrevjqrpz;ruhwr vjhrOr uhejwreirpu.j,rOrquwj
ursnjuerdonjrcfihrqzrvjunev,r voavrOrvuwrfuyjwr oevrtiqjrtlcunjreoxjtrid
qzri hrpu.ohsruhwrpcnhohsruxti;rpcerOrtvicxwrhierauxxrevjqrtlcunjk

 vjhrevjrdonj iiwr utrpcnhjwrfnjeezrqcavroheirjqpjntrinrxoyjraiuxt,rO
wnj revjqrdin unwrcfihrevotrvjunev,rtirutreiraiyjnroeruxxriyjn,ruhwrevjnj
Orxjerevjqrxojreoxxrevjrvjunevr utryjnzrviekrrEvjhrt jjfohsru uzruxxrevj
jqpjnt,rOrtjerwi hrqzrxiudrinrxiuyjt,ruhwr vjxqohsrwi hrevjrjunevjhrfie
cfihrevjq,rwnj revjrjqpjntruxxrnichwrevjricetowjridrevjrfie,reir.jjfroh
uhwruwwreirevjrvjue;ruhwrevctrutr jxxrutrohrevjrpjteriyjhrohrevjr inxw,rO
pu.jwrqzrpunxjz-xiuyjt,ruhwrpjauqjrohrxoeexjreoqjrursiiwrfutenzaii.rohei
evjrpunsuoh;rdinrOrquwjrqztjxdrtjyjnuxrau.jtruhwrfcwwohstridrevjrnoaj;
pcerOrquwjrhirfojt,rhjoevjnrvuwrOruhzevohsreirfceroheirevjqrtcffitohsrO
vuw,rjmajferevjrdxjtvrjoevjnridrdi xtrinrsiuetk

Oerhjjwrhierpjr ihwjnjwruerodruxxrevjtjrevohstreii.rqjrcfrqiterfunerid
evjrevonwrzjunridrqzrupiwjrvjnj;rdinroerotreirpjriptjnyjwrevuerohrevj
ohejnyuxtridrevjtjrevohstrOrvuwrqzrhj rvunyjteruhwrvctpuhwnzreirquhusj;
dinrOrnjufjwrqzrainhrohroetrtjutih,ruhwraunnojwroerviqjrutr jxxrutrO
aicxw,ruhwrxuowroercfrohrevjrjun,rohrqzrxunsjrput.jet,reoxxrOrvuwreoqjrei
ncproerice,rdinrOrvuwrhirdxiinreirevnutvroerih,rinrohtencqjhereirevnutv
oer oevk

Uhwrhi ,rohwjjw,rqzrteia.ridrainhrohanjutohs,rOrnjuxxzr uhejwreirpcoxwrqz
punhtrpossjn;rOr uhejwrurfxuajreirxuzroercfroh,rdinrevjrohanjutjridrevj
ainhrhi rzojxwjwrqjrtirqcav,revuerOrvuwridrevjrpunxjzrupicere jhez
pctvjxt,ruhwridrevjrnoajrutrqcavrinrqinj;rohtiqcavrevuerhi rOrnjtixyjwrei
pjsohreirctjroerdnjjxz;rdinrqzrpnjuwrvuwrpjjhrlcoejrsihjrursnjuer voxj;
uxtirOrnjtixyjwreirtjjr vuerlcuheoezr icxwrpjrtcddoaojherdinrqjrur vixj
zjun,ruhwreirti rpcerihajrurzjunk

Cfihrevjr vixj,rOrdichwrevuerevjrdinezrpctvjxtridrpunxjzruhwrnoajr jnj
qcavrqinjrevuhrOraicxwraihtcqjrohrurzjun;rtirOrnjtixyjwreirti rbcterevj
tuqjrlcuheoezrjyjnzrzjunrevuerOrti jwrevjrxute,rohrvifjtrevuertcavru
lcuheoezr icxwrdcxxzrfniyowjrqjr oevrpnjuw,r&ak

Uxxrevjr voxjrevjtjrevohstr jnjrwiohs,rzicrquzrpjrtcnjrqzrevicsvetrnuh
quhzreoqjtrcfihrevjrfnitfjaeridrxuhwr voavrOrvuwrtjjhrdniqrevjrievjnrtowj
idrevjrotxuhw;ruhwrOr utrhier oevicertjanjer otvjtrevuerOr jnjrihrtvinj
evjnj,rduhazohsrevue,rtjjohsrevjrquohxuhw,ruhwruhrohvupoejwraichenz,rO
qosverdohwrtiqjr uzrinrievjnreiraihyjzrqztjxdrdcnevjn,ruhwrfjnvuftrue
xuterdohwrtiqjrqjuhtridrjtaufjk

Pceruxxrevotr voxjrOrquwjrhiruxxi uhajrdinrevjrwuhsjntridrtcavruh
chwjneu.ohs,ruhwrvi rOrqosverduxxroheirevjrvuhwtridrtuyusjt,ruhwrfjnvuft
tcavrutrOrqosvervuyjrnjutihreirevoh.rdunr intjrevuhrevjrxoihtruhwreosjnt
idrUdnoau:revuerodrOrihajrauqjrohrevjonrfi jn,rOrtvicxwrnchrurvugunwrid
qinjrevuhrurevictuhwreirihjridrpjohsr.oxxjw,ruhwrfjnvuftridrpjohsrjuejh;
dinrOrvuwrvjunwrevuerevjrfjifxjridrevjrAunoppjuhraiuter jnjrauhhopuxtrin
quh-juejnt,ruhwrOr.hj rpzrevjrxueoecwjrevuerOraicxwrhierpjrdunrdniqrevue
tvinjkrrEvjh,rtcffitohsrevjzr jnjrhierauhhopuxt,rzjerevjzrqosver.oxxrqj,
utrquhzrJcnifjuhtr virvuwrduxxjhroheirevjonrvuhwtrvuwrpjjhrtjnyjw,rjyjh
 vjhrevjzrvuwrpjjhrejhrinre jhezreisjevjn—qcavrqinjrO,revuer utrpcerihj,
uhwraicxwrqu.jrxoeexjrinrhirwjdjhaj;ruxxrevjtjrevohst,rOrtuz,r voavrO
icsvereirvuyjraihtowjnjwr jxx;ruhwrwowraiqjroheirqzrevicsvetrudejn unwt,
zjersuyjrqjrhiruffnjvjhtoihtruerdonte,ruhwrqzrvjuwrnuhrqosveoxzrcfihrevj
evicsveridrsjeeohsriyjnreirevjrtvinjk

Hi rOr otvjwrdinrqzrpizrMcnz,ruhwrevjrxihs-piuer oevrtvicxwjn-id-qceeih
tuox,r oevr voavrOrtuoxjwrupiyjrurevictuhwrqoxjtrihrevjraiuteridrUdnoau;
pcerevotr utrohryuoh:revjhrOrevicsverOr icxwrsiruhwrxii.ruericnrtvof’t
piue,r voav,rutrOrvuyjrtuow,r utrpxi hrcfrcfihrevjrtvinjrursnjuer uz,roh
evjrteinq,r vjhr jr jnjrdonterauteru uzkrrTvjrxuzruxqiter vjnjrtvjrwowrue
donte,rpcerhierlcoej;ruhwr utrecnhjw,rpzrevjrdinajridrevjr uyjtruhwrevj
 ohwt,ruxqiterpieeiqrcf unw,rusuohterurvosvrnowsjridrpjuavz,rnicsvrtuhw,
pcerhir uejnrupicervjnkrrOdrOrvuwrvuwrvuhwtreirvuyjrnjdoeejwrvjn,ruhwrei
vuyjrxuchavjwrvjnroheirevjr uejn,revjrpiuer icxwrvuyjrwihjr jxxrjhicsv,
uhwrOrqosvervuyjrsihjrpua.roheirevjrPnugoxtr oevrvjnrjutoxzrjhicsv;rpcerO
qosvervuyjrdinjtjjhrevuerOraicxwrhirqinjrecnhrvjnruhwrtjervjnrcfnosve
cfihrvjnrpieeiqrevuhrOraicxwrnjqiyjrevjrotxuhw;rvi jyjn,rOr jhereirevj
 iiwt,ruhwracerxjyjntruhwrnixxjnt,ruhwrpnicsverevjqreirevjrpiuernjtixyohs
eirenzr vuerOraicxwrwi;rtcssjteohsreirqztjxdrevuerodrOraicxwrpcerecnhrvjn
wi h,rOrqosvernjfuonrevjrwuqusjrtvjrvuwrnjajoyjw,ruhwrtvjr icxwrpjruryjnz
siiwrpiue,ruhwrOrqosversireirtjurohrvjnryjnzrjutoxzk

Ortfunjwrhirfuoht,rohwjjw,rohrevotrfojajridrdncoexjttreiox,ruhwrtfjhe,rO
evoh.,revnjjrinrdicnr jj.trupiceroe;ruerxuterdohwohsroeroqfittopxjrei
vjuyjroercfr oevrqzrxoeexjrtenjhsev,rOrdjxxreirwossohsru uzrevjrtuhw,rei
chwjnqohjroe,ruhwrtireirqu.jroerduxxrwi h,rtjeeohsrfojajtridr iiwrei
evncteruhwrscowjroernosverohrevjrduxxk

Pcer vjhrOrvuwrwihjrevot,rOr utrchupxjreirteonroercfrusuoh,rinreirsje
chwjnroe,rqcavrxjttreirqiyjroerdin unwrei unwtrevjr uejn;rtirOr utrdinajw
eirsoyjroeriyjn;ruhwrzje,revicsvrOrsuyjriyjnrevjrvifjtridrevjrpiue,rqz
wjtonjreiryjhecnjriyjnrdinrevjrquohrohanjutjw,rnuevjnrevuhrwjanjutjw,rut
evjrqjuhtrdinroertjjqjwroqfittopxjk

Evotruerxjhsevrfcerqjrcfihrevoh.ohsr vjevjnroer utrhierfittopxjreirqu.j
qztjxdrurauhij,rinrfjnouscu,rtcavrutrevjrhueoyjtridrevitjraxoquejtrqu.j,
jyjhr oevicereiixt,rin,rutrOrqosvertuz,r oevicervuhwt,ridrevjrench.ridru
snjuerenjjkrrEvotrOrhierihxzrevicsverfittopxj,rpcerjutz,ruhwrfxjutjw
qztjxdrjmenjqjxzr oevrevjrevicsvetridrqu.ohsroe,ruhwr oevrqzrvuyohsrqcav
qinjraihyjhojhajrdinroerevuhruhzridrevjrhjsnijtrinrOhwouht;rpcerhierue
uxxraihtowjnohsrevjrfuneoacxunrohaihyjhojhajtr voavrOrxuzrchwjnrqinjrevuh
evjrOhwouhtrwow—yogkr uheridrvuhwtreirqiyjroe,r vjhroer utrquwj,roheirevj
 uejn—urwoddoacxezrqcavrvunwjnrdinrqjreirtcnqicherevuhruxxrevj
aihtjlcjhajtridr uheridreiixtraicxwrpjreirevjq;rdinr vuer utroereirqj,rod
 vjhrOrvuwravitjhruryuterenjjrohrevjr iiwt,ruhwr oevrqcavrenicpxjraceroe
wi h,rodrOrvuwrpjjhrupxjr oevrqzreiixtreirvj ruhwrwcprevjricetowjrohei
evjrfnifjnrtvufjridrurpiue,ruhwrpcnhrinracericerevjrohtowjreirqu.jroe
vixxi ,rtirutreirqu.jrurpiueridroe—od,rudejnruxxrevot,rOrqcterxjuyjroe
bcterevjnjr vjnjrOrdichwroe,ruhwrhierpjrupxjreirxuchavroeroheirevjr uejn?

Ihjr icxwrvuyjrevicsverOraicxwrhiervuyjrvuwrevjrxjuternjdxjaeoihrcfihrqz
qohwridrqzraonacqteuhajtr voxjrOr utrqu.ohsrevotrpiue,rpcerOrtvicxwrvuyj
oqqjwouejxzrevicsvervi rOrtvicxwrsjeroeroheirevjrtju;rpcerqzrevicsvet
 jnjrtirohejhercfihrqzryizusjriyjnrevjrtjurohroe,revuerOrhjyjnrihaj
aihtowjnjwrvi rOrtvicxwrsjeroeriddrevjrxuhw:ruhwroer utrnjuxxz,rohroet
i hrhuecnj,rqinjrjutzrdinrqjreirscowjroeriyjnrdinez-doyjrqoxjtridrtju
evuhrupicerdinez-doyjrdueviqtridrxuhw,r vjnjroerxuz,reirtjeroerudxiueroh
evjr uejnk

Or jhereir in.rcfihrevotrpiuerevjrqiterxo.jrurdiixrevuerjyjnrquhrwowr vi
vuwruhzridrvotrtjhtjtru u.jkrrOrfxjutjwrqztjxdr oevrevjrwjtosh,r oevice
wjejnqohohsr vjevjnrOr utrjyjnrupxjreirchwjneu.jroe;rhierpcerevuerevj
woddoacxezridrxuchavohsrqzrpiuerauqjridejhroheirqzrvjuw;rpcerOrfcerurteif
eirqzrohlconojtroheiroerpzrevotrdiixotvruht jnr voavrOrsuyjrqztjxd—“Xje
qjrdonterqu.jroe;rOr unnuherOr oxxrdohwrtiqjr uzrinrievjnreirsjeroeruxihs
 vjhroerotrwihjk”

Evotr utrurqiterfnjfitejnictrqjeviw;rpcerevjrjusjnhjttridrqzrduhaz
fnjyuoxjw,ruhwreir in.rOr jhekrrOrdjxxjwrurajwun-enjj,ruhwrOrlcjteoih
qcavr vjevjnrTixiqihrjyjnrvuwrtcavrurihjrdinrevjrpcoxwohsridrevjrEjqfxj
idrBjnctuxjq;roer utrdoyjrdjjerejhrohavjtrwouqjejnruerevjrxi jnrfunerhjme
evjrtecqf,ruhwrdicnrdjjerjxjyjhrohavjtrwouqjejnruerevjrjhwridre jhez-e i
djje;rudejnr voavroerxjttjhjwrdinrur voxj,ruhwrevjhrfunejwroheirpnuhavjtk
Oer utrhier oevicerohdohoejrxupicnrevuerOrdjxxjwrevotrenjj;rOr utre jhez
wuztrvua.ohsruhwrvj ohsrueroeruerevjrpieeiq;rOr utrdicnejjhrqinjrsjeeohs
evjrpnuhavjtruhwrxoqptruhwrevjryutertfnjuwohsrvjuwraceridd,r voavrO
vua.jwruhwrvj jwrevnicsvr oevrumjruhwrvueavje,ruhwrohjmfnjttopxjrxupicn;
udejnrevot,roeraiterqjrurqihevreirtvufjroeruhwrwcproereirurfnifineoih,
uhwreirtiqjevohsrxo.jrevjrpieeiqridrurpiue,revueroerqosvert oqrcfnosverut
oericsvereirwikrrOeraiterqjrhjunrevnjjrqihevtrqinjreiraxjunrevjrohtowj,
uhwr in.roericertirutreirqu.jruhrjmuaerpiueridroe;revotrOrwow,rohwjjw,
 oevicerdonj,rpzrqjnjrquxxjeruhwravotjx,ruhwrpzrevjrwoheridrvunwrxupicn,
eoxxrOrvuwrpnicsveroereirpjruryjnzrvuhwtiqjrfjnouscu,ruhwrposrjhicsvrei
vuyjraunnojwrtom-uhw-e jhezrqjh,ruhwraihtjlcjhexzrposrjhicsvreirvuyj
aunnojwrqjruhwruxxrqzraunsik

 vjhrOrvuwrsihjrevnicsvrevotr in.rOr utrjmenjqjxzrwjxosvejwr oevroekrrEvj
piuer utrnjuxxzrqcavrpossjnrevuhrjyjnrOrtu rurauhijrinrfjnouscu,revuer ut
quwjridrihjrenjj,rohrqzrxodjkrrQuhzrur junzrteni.jroervuwraite,rzicrquz
pjrtcnj;ruhwrvuwrOrsieejhroeroheirevjr uejn,rOrqu.jrhirlcjteoih,rpcerO
tvicxwrvuyjrpjschrevjrquwwjteryizusj,ruhwrevjrqiterchxo.jxzreirpj
fjndinqjw,revuerjyjnr utrchwjneu.jhk

Pceruxxrqzrwjyoajtreirsjeroeroheirevjr uejnrduoxjwrqj;revicsvrevjzraite
qjrohdohoejrxupicnreiikrrOerxuzrupicerihjrvchwnjwrzunwtrdniqrevjr uejn,
uhwrhierqinj;rpcerevjrdonterohaihyjhojhajr ut,roer utrcfrvoxxrei unwtrevj
anjj.krr jxx,reireu.jru uzrevotrwotaicnusjqjhe,rOrnjtixyjwreirwosrohei
evjrtcnduajridrevjrjunev,ruhwrtirqu.jrurwjaxoyoez:revotrOrpjsuh,ruhwroe
aiterqjrurfniwosoictrwjuxridrfuohtr(pcer virsncwsjrfuohtr virvuyjrevjon
wjxoyjnuhajrohryoj ?);rpcer vjhrevotr utr in.jwrevnicsv,ruhwrevot
woddoacxezrquhusjw,roer utrteoxxrqcavrevjrtuqj,rdinrOraicxwrhirqinjrteon
evjrauhijrevuhrOraicxwrevjrievjnrpiuekrrEvjhrOrqjutcnjwrevjrwoteuhajrid
snichw,ruhwrnjtixyjwreiracerurwia.rinrauhux,reirpnohsrevjr uejnrcfreirevj
auhij,rtjjohsrOraicxwrhierpnohsrevjrauhijrwi hreirevjr uejnkrr jxx,rO
pjsuhrevotr in.;ruhwr vjhrOrpjsuhreirjhejnrcfihroe,ruhwrauxacxuejrvi 
wjjfroer utreirpjrwcs,rvi rpniuw,rvi revjrtecddr utreirpjrevni hrice,rO
dichwrevue,rpzrevjrhcqpjnridrvuhwtrOrvuw,rpjohsrhihjrpcerqzri h,roerqcte
vuyjrpjjhrejhrinre jxyjrzjuntrpjdinjrOraicxwrvuyjrsihjrevnicsvr oevroe;
dinrevjrtvinjrxuzrtirvosv,revueruerevjrcffjnrjhwroerqctervuyjrpjjhrue
xjutere jhezrdjjerwjjf;rtiruerxjhsev,revicsvr oevrsnjuernjxcaeuhaz,rO
suyjrevotrueejqferiyjnruxtik

Evotrsnojyjwrqjrvjuneoxz;ruhwrhi rOrtu ,revicsvreiirxuej,revjrdixxzrid
pjsohhohsrur in.rpjdinjr jraicherevjraite,ruhwrpjdinjr jrbcwsjrnosvexzrid
icnri hrtenjhsevreirsirevnicsvr oevroek

Ohrevjrqowwxjridrevotr in.rOrdohotvjwrqzrdicnevrzjunrohrevotrfxuaj,ruhw
.jferqzruhhoyjntunzr oevrevjrtuqjrwjyieoih,ruhwr oevrutrqcavraiqdinerut
jyjnrpjdinj;rdin,rpzruraihteuhertecwzruhwrtjnoictruffxoaueoihreirevjr inw
idrSiw,ruhwrpzrevjruttoteuhajridrVotrsnuaj,rOrsuohjwrurwoddjnjhe
.hi xjwsjrdniqr vuerOrvuwrpjdinjkrrOrjhejneuohjwrwoddjnjherhieoihtrid
evohstkrrOrxii.jwrhi rcfihrevjr inxwrutrurevohsrnjqiej,r voavrOrvuw
hievohsreirwir oev,rhirjmfjaeueoihtrdniq,ruhw,rohwjjw,rhirwjtonjtrupice:
ohrur inw,rOrvuwrhievohsrohwjjwreirwir oevroe,rhinr utrjyjnrxo.jxzrei
vuyj,rtirOrevicsveroerxii.jw,rutr jrquzrfjnvuftrxii.rcfihroe
vjnjudejn—yogkrutrurfxuajrOrvuwrxoyjwroh,rpcer utraiqjriceridroe;ruhw
 jxxrqosverOrtuz,rutrDuevjnrUpnuvuqreirWoyjt,r“Pje jjhrqjruhwrevjjrotru
snjuerscxdrdomjwk”

Ohrevjrdonterfxuaj,rOr utrnjqiyjwrdniqruxxrevjr oa.jwhjttridrevjr inxw
vjnj;rOrvuwrhjoevjnrevjrxctetridrevjrdxjtv,revjrxctetridrevjrjzj,rhinrevj
fnowjridrxodjkrrOrvuwrhievohsreiraiyje,rdinrOrvuwruxxrevuerOr utrhi 
aufupxjridrjhbizohs;rOr utrxinwridrevjr vixjrquhin;rin,rodrOrfxjutjw,rO
qosverauxxrqztjxdr.ohsrinrjqfjninriyjnrevjr vixjraichenzr voavrOrvuw
fittjttoihrid:revjnjr jnjrhirnoyuxt;rOrvuwrhiraiqfjeoein,rhihjreirwotfcej
tiyjnjoshezrinraiqquhwr oevrqj:rOrqosvervuyjrnuotjwrtvof-xiuwohstrid
ainh,rpcerOrvuwrhirctjrdinroe;rtirOrxjerutrxoeexjrsni rutrOrevicsve
jhicsvrdinrqzriaautoihkrrOrvuwreineiotjrinrecnexjrjhicsv,rpcerhi ruhw
evjhrihjr utrutrqcavrutrOraicxwrfcereiruhzrctj:rOrvuwreoqpjnrjhicsvrei
vuyjrpcoxerurdxjjeridrtvoft;ruhwrOrvuwrsnufjtrjhicsvreirvuyjrquwjr ohj,
inreirvuyjracnjwroheirnuotoht,reirvuyjrxiuwjwrevuerdxjjer vjhroervuwrpjjh
pcoxek

PceruxxrOraicxwrqu.jrctjridr utruxxrevuer utryuxcupxj:rOrvuwrjhicsvrei
jueruhwrtcffxzrqzr uhet,ruhwr vuer utruxxrevjrnjtereirqj?rrOdrOr.oxxjw
qinjrdxjtvrevuhrOraicxwrjue,revjrwisrqcterjueroe,rinryjnqoh;rodrOrti jw
qinjrainhrevuhrOraicxwrjue,roerqcterpjrtfioxjw;revjrenjjtrevuerOracerwi h
 jnjrxzohsreirnierihrevjrsnichw;rOraicxwrqu.jrhirqinjrctjridrevjqrpcerdin
dcjx,ruhwrevuerOrvuwrhiriaautoihrdinrpcereirwnjttrqzrdiiwk

Ohrur inw,revjrhuecnjruhwrjmfjnojhajridrevohstrwoaeuejwreirqj,rcfihrbcte
njdxjaeoih,revueruxxrevjrsiiwrevohstridrevotr inxwrunjrhirdunevjnrsiiwrei
ctrevuhrevjzrunjrdinricnrctj;ruhwrevue,r vuejyjnr jrquzrvjufrcfreirsoyj
ievjnt,r jrjhbizrbcterutrqcavrutr jrauhrctj,ruhwrhirqinjkrrEvjrqite
aiyjeict,rsnofohsrqotjnrohrevjr inxwr icxwrvuyjrpjjhracnjwridrevjryoajrid
aiyjeicthjttrodrvjrvuwrpjjhrohrqzrautj;rdinrOrfittjttjwrohdohoejxzrqinj
evuhrOr.hj r vuereirwir oevkrrOrvuwrhirniiqrdinrwjtonj,rjmajferoer utrid
evohstr voavrOrvuwrhie,ruhwrevjzr jnjrpcerenodxjt,revicsv,rohwjjw,rid
snjuerctjreirqjkrrOrvuw,rutrOrvohejwrpjdinj,rurfunajxridrqihjz,rutr jxx
sixwrutrtoxyjn,rupicerevonez-tomrfichwtrtejnxohskrrUxut!revjnjrevjrtinnz,
ctjxjttrtecddrxuz;rOrvuwrhirqinjrquhhjnridrpctohjttrdinroe;ruhwridejh
evicsver oevrqztjxdrevuerOr icxwrvuyjrsoyjhrurvuhwdcxridroerdinrursnitt
idreipuaai-fofjt;rinrdinrurvuhw-qoxxreirsnohwrqzrainh;rhuz,rOr icxwrvuyj
soyjhroeruxxrdinrurtomfjhhz- inevridrecnhofruhwraunniertjjwricerid
Jhsxuhw,rinrdinrurvuhwdcxridrfjutruhwrpjuht,ruhwrurpieexjridroh.krrUtroe
 ut,rOrvuwrhierevjrxjuteruwyuheusjrpzroerinrpjhjdoerdniqroe;rpcerevjnjroe
xuzrohrurwnu jn,ruhwrsnj rqicxwzr oevrevjrwuqfridrevjrauyjrohrevjr je
tjutiht;ruhwrodrOrvuwrvuwrevjrwnu jnrdcxxridrwouqihwt,roervuwrpjjhrevj
tuqjrautj—evjzrvuwrpjjhridrhirquhhjnridryuxcjreirqj,rpjauctjridrhirctjk

Orvuwrhi rpnicsverqzrteuejridrxodjreirpjrqcavrjutojnrohroetjxdrevuhroe
 utruerdonte,ruhwrqcavrjutojnreirqzrqohw,rutr jxxrutreirqzrpiwzkrrO
dnjlcjhexzrtuerwi hreirqjuer oevrevuh.dcxhjtt,ruhwruwqonjwrevjrvuhwrid
Siw’trfniyowjhaj,r voavrvuwrevctrtfnjuwrqzreupxjrohrevjr oxwjnhjttkrrO
xjunhjwreirxii.rqinjrcfihrevjrpnosvertowjridrqzraihwoeoih,ruhwrxjttrcfih
evjrwun.rtowj,ruhwreiraihtowjnr vuerOrjhbizjwrnuevjnrevuhr vuerOr uhejw;
uhwrevotrsuyjrqjrtiqjeoqjtrtcavrtjanjeraiqdinet,revuerOrauhhierjmfnjtt
evjq;ruhwr voavrOreu.jrhieoajridrvjnj,reirfcerevitjrwotaihejhejwrfjifxj
ohrqohwridroe,r virauhhierjhbizraiqdineupxzr vuerSiwrvutrsoyjhrevjq,
pjauctjrevjzrtjjruhwraiyjertiqjevohsrevuerVjrvutrhiersoyjhrevjqkrrUxxricn
wotaihejhetrupicer vuer jr uheruffjunjwreirqjreirtfnohsrdniqrevjr uherid
evuh.dcxhjttrdinr vuer jrvuyjk

Uhievjnrnjdxjaeoihr utridrsnjuerctjreirqj,ruhwrwicpexjttr icxwrpjrtirei
uhzrihjrevuertvicxwrduxxroheirtcavrwotenjttrutrqohjr ut;ruhwrevotr ut,rei
aiqfunjrqzrfnjtjheraihwoeoihr oevr vuerOruerdonterjmfjaejwroer icxwrpj;
huz,r oevr vueroer icxwrajneuohxzrvuyjrpjjh,rodrevjrsiiwrfniyowjhajrid
Siwrvuwrhier ihwjndcxxzrinwjnjwrevjrtvofreirpjrautercfrhjunjnreirevj
tvinj,r vjnjrOrhierihxzraicxwraiqjruervjn,rpceraicxwrpnohsr vuerOrsierice
idrvjnreirevjrtvinj,rdinrqzrnjxojdruhwraiqdine;r oevicer voav,rOrvuw
 uhejwrdinreiixtreir in.,r jufihtrdinrwjdjhaj,ruhwrschfi wjnruhwrtvierdin
sjeeohsrqzrdiiwk

Ortfjher vixjrvicnt,rOrquzrtuzr vixjrwuzt,rohrnjfnjtjheohsreirqztjxd,roh
evjrqiterxoyjxzraixicnt,rvi rOrqctervuyjruaejwrodrOrvuwrsierhievohsrice
idrevjrtvofkrrVi rOraicxwrhiervuyjrtirqcavrutrsieruhzrdiiw,rjmajferdotv
uhwrecnexjt;ruhwrevue,rutroer utrxihsrpjdinjrOrdichwruhzridrevjq,rOrqcte
vuyjrfjnotvjwrdonte;revuerOrtvicxwrvuyjrxoyjw,rodrOrvuwrhierfjnotvjw,
xo.jrurqjnjrtuyusj;revuerodrOrvuwr.oxxjwrursiuerinrurdi x,rpzruhz
aihenoyuhaj,rOrvuwrhir uzreirdxuzrinrifjhroe,rinrfunerevjrdxjtvrdniqrevj
t.ohruhwrevjrpi jxt,rinreiraceroercf;rpcerqctershu roer oevrqzrejjev,ruhw
fcxxroer oevrqzraxu t,rxo.jrurpjutek

EvjtjrnjdxjaeoihtrquwjrqjryjnzrtjhtopxjridrevjrsiiwhjttridrFniyowjhajrei
qj,ruhwryjnzrevuh.dcxrdinrqzrfnjtjheraihwoeoih,r oevruxxroetrvunwtvoft
uhwrqotdinechjt;ruhwrevotrfuneruxtirOrauhhierpcernjaiqqjhwreirevj
njdxjaeoihridrevitjr virunjrufe,rohrevjonrqotjnz,reirtuz,r“Otruhz
uddxoaeoihrxo.jrqohj?”rrXjerevjqraihtowjnrvi rqcavr intjrevjrautjtrid
tiqjrfjifxjrunj,ruhwrevjonrautjrqosvervuyjrpjjh,rodrFniyowjhajrvuw
evicsverdoek

Orvuwruhievjnrnjdxjaeoih,r voavruttotejwrqjruxtireiraiqdinerqzrqohwr oev
vifjt;ruhwrevotr utraiqfunohsrqzrfnjtjhertoecueoihr oevr vuerOrvuw
wjtjnyjw,ruhwrvuwrevjnjdinjrnjutihreirjmfjaerdniqrevjrvuhwridrFniyowjhajk
Orvuwrxoyjwrurwnjuwdcxrxodj,rfjndjaexzrwjteoecejridrevjr.hi xjwsjruhw
djunridrSiwkrrOrvuwrpjjhr jxxrohtencaejwrpzrduevjnruhwrqievjn;rhjoevjn
vuwrevjzrpjjhr uheohsreirqjrohrevjonrjunxzrjhwjuyicntreirohdctjru
njxosoictru jridrSiwroheirqzrqohw,rurtjhtjridrqzrwcez,ruhwr vuerevj
huecnjruhwrjhwridrqzrpjohsrnjlconjwridrqjkrrPce,ruxut!rduxxohsrjunxzrohei
evjrtjudunohsrxodj,r voavridruxxrxoyjtrotrevjrqiterwjteoecejridrevjrdjun
idrSiw,revicsvrVotrejnnintrunjrux uztrpjdinjrevjq;rOrtuz,rduxxohsrjunxz
oheirevjrtjudunohsrxodj,ruhwroheirtjudunohsraiqfuhz,ruxxrevuerxoeexj
tjhtjridrnjxosoihr voavrOrvuwrjhejneuohjwr utrxucsvjwriceridrqjrpzrqz
qjttquejt;rpzrurvunwjhjwrwjtfotohsridrwuhsjnt,ruhwrevjryoj tridrwjuev,
 voavrsnj rvupoecuxreirqjrpzrqzrxihsruptjhajrdniqruxxrquhhjnrid
iffinechoeojtreiraihyjntjr oevruhzevohsrpcer vuer utrxo.jrqztjxd,rinrei
vjunruhzevohsrevuer utrsiiwrinrejhwjwrei unwtroek

Tiryiowr utrOridrjyjnzevohsrevuer utrsiiw,rinrevjrxjutertjhtjridr vuerO
 ut,rinr utreirpj,revue,rohrevjrsnjuejterwjxoyjnuhajtrOrjhbizjw—tcavrut
qzrjtaufjrdniqrTuxxjj;rqzrpjohsreu.jhrcfrpzrevjrFinecscjtjrqutejnridrevj
tvof;rqzrpjohsrfxuhejwrtir jxxrohrevjrPnugoxt;rqzrnjajoyohsrevjraunsi
dniqrJhsxuhw,ruhwrevjrxo.j—Orhjyjnrvuwrihajrevjr inwtr“Evuh.rSiw!”rti
qcavrutrihrqzrqohw,rinrohrqzrqicev;rhinrohrevjrsnjuejterwotenjttrvuwrOrti
qcavrutrurevicsvereirfnuzreirVoq,rinrtirqcavrutreirtuz,r“Xinw,rvuyjrqjnaz
cfihrqj!”rhi,rhinreirqjheoihrevjrhuqjridrSiw,rchxjttroer utreirt junrpz,
uhwrpxutfvjqjroek

Orvuwrejnnopxjrnjdxjaeoihtrcfihrqzrqohwrdinrquhzrqihevt,rutrOrvuyj
uxnjuwzriptjnyjw,rihruaaicheridrqzr oa.jwruhwrvunwjhjwrxodjrfute;ruhw
 vjhrOrxii.jwrupicerqj,ruhwraihtowjnjwr vuerfuneoacxunrfniyowjhajtrvuw
ueejhwjwrqjrtohajrqzraiqohsroheirevotrfxuaj,ruhwrvi rSiwrvuwrwjuxe
picheodcxxzr oevrqj—vuwrhierihxzrfchotvjwrqjrxjttrevuhrqzroholcoezrvuw
wjtjnyjw,rpcervuwrtirfxjheodcxxzrfniyowjwrdinrqj—evotrsuyjrqjrsnjuervifjt
evuerqzrnjfjheuhajr utruaajfejw,ruhwrevuerSiwrvuwrzjerqjnazrohrteinjrdin
qjk

 oevrevjtjrnjdxjaeoihtrOr in.jwrqzrqohwrcf,rhierihxzreirurnjtoshueoihrei
evjr oxxridrSiwrohrevjrfnjtjherwotfitoeoihridrqzraonacqteuhajt,rpcerjyjh
eirurtohajnjrevuh.dcxhjttrdinrqzraihwoeoih;ruhwrevuerO,r vir utrzjeru
xoyohsrquh,ricsverhiereiraiqfxuoh,rtjjohsrOrvuwrhierevjrwcjrfchotvqjherid
qzrtoht;revuerOrjhbizjwrtirquhzrqjnaojtr voavrOrvuwrhirnjutihreirvuyj
jmfjaejwrohrevuerfxuaj;revuerOricsverhjyjnrqinjreirnjfohjruerqz
aihwoeoih,rpcereirnjbioaj,ruhwreirsoyjrwuoxzrevuh.trdinrevuerwuoxzrpnjuw,
 voavrhievohsrpcerurani wridr ihwjntraicxwrvuyjrpnicsve;revuerOricsverei
aihtowjnrOrvuwrpjjhrdjwrjyjhrpzrurqonuaxj,rjyjhrutrsnjuerutrevuerid
djjwohsrJxobuvrpzrnuyjht,rhuz,rpzrurxihsrtjnojtridrqonuaxjt;ruhwrevuerO
aicxwrvunwxzrvuyjrhuqjwrurfxuajrohrevjrchohvupoeupxjrfuneridrevjr inxw
 vjnjrOraicxwrvuyjrpjjhrauterqinjreirqzruwyuheusj;rurfxuajr vjnj,rutrO
vuwrhirtiaojez,r voavr utrqzruddxoaeoihrihrihjrvuhw,rtirOrdichwrhi
nuyjhictrpjutet,rhirdcnoictr ixyjtrinreosjnt,reirevnjuejhrqzrxodj;rhi
yjhiqictranjuecnjt,rinrfiotiht,r voavrOrqosverdjjwrihreirqzrvcne;rhi
tuyusjtreirqcnwjnruhwrwjyicnrqjkrrOhrur inw,rutrqzrxodjr utrurxodjrid
tinni rihjr uz,rtiroer utrurxodjridrqjnazruhievjn;ruhwrOr uhejwrhievohs
eirqu.jroerurxodjridraiqdinerpcereirpjrupxjreirqu.jrqzrtjhtjridrSiw’t
siiwhjttreirqj,ruhwraunjriyjnrqjrohrevotraihwoeoih,rpjrqzrwuoxz
aihtixueoih;ruhwrudejnrOrwowrqu.jrurbcteroqfniyjqjherihrevjtjrevohst,rO
 jheru uz,ruhwr utrhirqinjrtuwkrrOrvuwrhi rpjjhrvjnjrtirxihsrevuerquhz
evohstr voavrOrvuwrpnicsverihrtvinjrdinrqzrvjxfr jnjrjoevjnrlcoejrsihj,
inryjnzrqcavr utejwruhwrhjunrtfjhek

Qzroh.,rutrOriptjnyjw,rvuwrpjjhrsihjrtiqjreoqj,ruxxrpceruryjnzrxoeexj,
 voavrOrj.jwricer oevr uejn,rurxoeexjruhwrurxoeexj,reoxxroer utrtirfuxj,
oertaunajrxjderuhzruffjunuhajridrpxua.rcfihrevjrfufjnkrrUtrxihsrutroe
xutejwrOrquwjrctjridroereirqohcejrwi hrevjrwuztridrevjrqihevrihr voavruhz
njqun.upxjrevohsrvuffjhjwreirqj;ruhwrdonte,rpzrauteohsrcfreoqjtrfute,rO
njqjqpjnjwrevuerevjnjr utrurtenuhsjraihacnnjhajridrwuztrohrevjryunoict
fniyowjhajtr voavrpjdjxxrqj,ruhwr voav,rodrOrvuwrpjjhrtcfjnteoeoictxz
ohaxohjwreiriptjnyjrwuztrutrdueuxrinrdinechuej,rOrqosvervuyjrvuwrnjutih
eirvuyjrxii.jwrcfihr oevrursnjuerwjuxridracnoitoezk

Donte,rOrvuwriptjnyjwrevuerevjrtuqjrwuzrevuerOrpni.jru uzrdniqrqzrduevjn
uhwrdnojhwtruhwrnuhru uzreirVcxx,rohrinwjnreirsireirtju,revjrtuqjrwuz
udejn unwtrOr utreu.jhrpzrevjrTuxxjjrquh-id- un,ruhwrquwjrurtxuyj;revj
tuqjrwuzridrevjrzjunrevuerOrjtaufjwriceridrevjr nja.ridrevuertvofroh
ZunqicevrNiuwt,revuertuqjrwuz-zjunrudejn unwtrOrquwjrqzrjtaufjrdniq
Tuxxjjrohrurpiue;revjrtuqjrwuzridrevjrzjunrOr utrpinhrih—yogkrevjr30evrid
Tjfejqpjn,revuertuqjrwuzrOrvuwrqzrxodjrtirqonuacxictxzrtuyjwre jhez-tom
zjuntrudejn,r vjhrOr utrauterihrtvinjrohrevotrotxuhw;rtirevuerqzr oa.jw
xodjruhwrqzrtixoeunzrxodjrpjsuhrpievrihrurwuzk

Evjrhjmerevohsreirqzroh.rpjohsr utejwr utrevueridrqzrpnjuw—Orqjuhrevj
potacoer voavrOrpnicsvericeridrevjrtvof;revotrOrvuwrvctpuhwjwreirevjrxute
wjsnjj,ruxxi ohsrqztjxdrpcerihjrau.jridrpnjuwru-wuzrdinrupiyjrurzjun;ruhw
zjerOr utrlcoejr oevicerpnjuwrdinrhjunrurzjunrpjdinjrOrsieruhzrainhridrqz
i h,ruhwrsnjuernjutihrOrvuwreirpjrevuh.dcxrevuerOrvuwruhzrueruxx,revj
sjeeohsroerpjohs,rutrvutrpjjhruxnjuwzriptjnyjw,rhjmereirqonuacxictk

Qzraxievjt,reii,rpjsuhreirwjauz;rutreirxohjh,rOrvuwrvuwrhihjrursiiw
 voxj,rjmajfertiqjravjlcjnjwrtvonetr voavrOrdichwrohrevjravjtetridrevj
ievjnrtjuqjh,ruhwr voavrOraunjdcxxzrfnjtjnyjw;rpjauctjrquhzreoqjtrOraicxw
pjunrhirievjnraxievjtrihrpcerurtvone;ruhwroer utruryjnzrsnjuervjxfreirqj
evuerOrvuw,ruqihsruxxrevjrqjh’traxievjtridrevjrtvof,ruxqiterevnjjrwigjh
idrtvonetkrrEvjnjr jnjruxti,rohwjjw,rtjyjnuxrevoa.r ueav-aiuetridrevj
tjuqjh’tr voavr jnjrxjde,rpcerevjzr jnjreiirviereir jun;ruhwrevicsvroerot
encjrevuerevjr juevjnr utrtiryoixjhexzrvierevuerevjnjr utrhirhjjwrid
axievjt,rzjerOraicxwrhiersirlcoejrhu.jw—hi,revicsvrOrvuwrpjjhrohaxohjwrei
oe,r voavrOr utrhie—hinraicxwrOrupowjrevjrevicsveridroe,revicsvrOr ut
uxihjkrrEvjrnjutihr vzrOraicxwrhiersirhu.jwr ut,rOraicxwrhierpjunrevj
vjueridrevjrtchrtir jxxr vjhrlcoejrhu.jwrutr oevrtiqjraxievjtrih;rhuz,
evjryjnzrvjuerdnjlcjhexzrpxotejnjwrqzrt.oh:r vjnjut,r oevrurtvonerih,revj
uonroetjxdrquwjrtiqjrqieoih,ruhwr votexohsrchwjnrevjrtvone,r utre idixw
aiixjnrevuhr oeviceroekrrHirqinjraicxwrOrjyjnrpnohsrqztjxdreirsiriceroh
evjrvjueridrevjrtchr oeviceruraufrinrurvue;revjrvjueridrevjrtch,rpjueohs
 oevrtcavryoixjhajrutroerwijtrohrevuerfxuaj,r icxwrsoyjrqjrevjrvjuwuavj
fnjtjhexz,rpzrwuneohsrtirwonjaexzrihrqzrvjuw,r oeviceruraufrinrvuerih,rti
evuerOraicxwrhierpjunroe;r vjnjut,rodrOrfcerihrqzrvueroer icxwrfnjtjhexz
siru uzk

Cfihrevjtjryoj trOrpjsuhreiraihtowjnrupicerfceeohsrevjrdj rnustrOrvuw,
 voavrOrauxxjwraxievjt,roheirtiqjrinwjn;rOrvuwr inhriceruxxrevj
 uoteaiuetrOrvuw,ruhwrqzrpctohjttr utrhi reirenzrodrOraicxwrhierqu.j
bua.jetriceridrevjrsnjuer ueav-aiuetr voavrOrvuwrpzrqj,ruhwr oevrtcav
ievjnrquejnouxtrutrOrvuw;rtirOrtjereir in.,reuoxinohs,rinrnuevjn,rohwjjw,
pieavohs,rdinrOrquwjrqiterfoejictr in.ridroekrrVi jyjn,rOrquwjrtvoderei
qu.jre irinrevnjjrhj r uoteaiuet,r voavrOrvifjwr icxwrtjnyjrqjrursnjue
 voxj:rutrdinrpnjjavjtrinrwnu jnt,rOrquwjrpceruryjnzrtinnzrtvoderohwjjw
eoxxrudejn unwtk

OrvuyjrqjheoihjwrevuerOrtuyjwrevjrt.ohtridruxxrevjranjuecnjtrevuerO
.oxxjw,rOrqjuhrdicn-diiejwrihjt,ruhwrOrvuwrevjqrvchsrcf,rtenjeavjwrice
 oevrteoa.trohrevjrtch,rpzr voavrqjuhtrtiqjridrevjqr jnjrtirwnzruhwrvunw
evuerevjzr jnjrdoerdinrxoeexj,rpcerievjntr jnjryjnzrctjdcxkrrEvjrdonte
evohsrOrquwjridrevjtjr utrursnjueraufrdinrqzrvjuw,r oevrevjrvuonrihrevj
icetowj,reirtviieriddrevjrnuoh;ruhwrevotrOrfjndinqjwrtir jxx,revuerudejn
Orquwjrqjrurtcoeridraxievjtr vixxzridrevjtjrt.oht—evuerotreirtuz,ru
 uoteaiue,ruhwrpnjjavjtrifjhruerevjr.hjjt,ruhwrpievrxiitj,rdinrevjzr jnj
nuevjnr uheohsreir.jjfrqjraiixrevuhreir.jjfrqjr unqkrrOrqcterhieriqoerei
ua.hi xjwsjrevuerevjzr jnjr njeavjwxzrquwj;rdinrodrOr utrurpuwraunfjhejn,
Or utrur intjreuoxinkrrVi jyjn,revjzr jnjrtcavrutrOrquwjryjnzrsiiwrtvode
 oev,ruhwr vjhrOr utrice,rodroervuffjhjwreirnuoh,revjrvuonridrqz
 uoteaiueruhwraufrpjohsricejnqite,rOr utr.jferyjnzrwnzk

Udejnrevot,rOrtfjherursnjuerwjuxridreoqjruhwrfuohtreirqu.jruhrcqpnjxxu;rO
 ut,rohwjjw,rohrsnjuer uheridrihj,ruhwrvuwrursnjuerqohwreirqu.jrihj;rO
vuwrtjjhrevjqrquwjrohrevjrPnugoxt,r vjnjrevjzrunjryjnzrctjdcxrohrevj
snjuervjuetrevjnj,ruhwrOrdjxerevjrvjuetrjyjnzrbierutrsnjuervjnj,ruhw
snjuejnreii,rpjohsrhjunjnrevjrjlcohim;rpjtowjt,rutrOr utripxosjwreirpj
qcavrupniuw,roer utrurqiterctjdcxrevohsreirqj,rutr jxxrdinrevjrnuohtrut
evjrvjuetkrrOreii.rur inxwridrfuohtr oevroe,ruhwr utrursnjuer voxjrpjdinj
Oraicxwrqu.jruhzevohsrxo.jxzreirvixw:rhuz,rudejnrOrvuwrevicsverOrvuwrvoe
evjr uz,rOrtfioxjwre irinrevnjjrpjdinjrOrquwjrihjreirqzrqohw:rpceruerxute
Orquwjrihjrevueruht jnjwrohwoddjnjhexzr jxx:revjrquohrwoddoacxezrOrdichw
 utreirqu.jroerxjerwi hkrrOraicxwrqu.jroertfnjuw,rpcerodroerwowrhierxje
wi hreii,ruhwrwnu roh,roer utrhierfineupxjrdinrqjruhzr uzrpcerbcteriyjn
qzrvjuw,r voavr icxwrhierwikrrVi jyjn,ruerxute,rutrOrtuow,rOrquwjrihjrei
uht jn,ruhwraiyjnjwroer oevrt.oht,revjrvuonrcf unwt,rtirevueroerauteridd
evjrnuohrxo.jrurfjhe-victj,ruhwr.jferiddrevjrtchrtirjddjaecuxxz,revuerO
aicxwr ux.ricerohrevjrvieejteridrevjr juevjnr oevrsnjuejnruwyuheusjrevuh
Oraicxwrpjdinjrohrevjraiixjte,ruhwr vjhrOrvuwrhirhjjwridroeraicxwraxitj
oe,ruhwraunnzroerchwjnrqzrunqk

EvctrOrxoyjwrqosvezraiqdineupxz,rqzrqohwrpjohsrjheonjxzraiqfitjwrpz
njtoshohsrqztjxdreirevjr oxxridrSiw,ruhwrevni ohsrqztjxdr vixxzrcfihrevj
wotfituxridrVotrfniyowjhajkrrEvotrquwjrqzrxodjrpjeejnrevuhrtiaoupxj,rdin
 vjhrOrpjsuhreirnjsnjerevjr uheridraihyjntueoihrOr icxwrut.rqztjxd,
 vjevjnrevctraihyjntohsrqcecuxxzr oevrqzri hrevicsvet,ruhwr(utrOrvifjrO
quzrtuz)r oevrjyjhrSiwrVoqtjxd,rpzrjbuacxueoiht,r utrhierpjeejnrevuhrevj
ceqiterjhbizqjheridrvcquhrtiaojezrohrevjr inxw?




AVUFEJNrM—EUQJTrSIUET


Orauhhiertuzrevuerudejnrevot,rdinrdoyjrzjunt,ruhzrjmenuinwohunzrevohs
vuffjhjwreirqj,rpcerOrxoyjwrihrohrevjrtuqjraicntj,rohrevjrtuqjrfitecnj
uhwrfxuaj,rutrpjdinj;revjravojdrevohstrOr utrjqfxizjwroh,rpjtowjtrqz
zjunxzrxupicnridrfxuheohsrqzrpunxjzruhwrnoaj,ruhwracnohsrqzrnuotoht,rid
pievr voavrOrux uztr.jfercfrbcterjhicsvreirvuyjrtcddoaojherteia.ridrihj
zjun’trfniyotoihtrpjdinjvuhw;rOrtuz,rpjtowjtrevotrzjunxzrxupicn,ruhwrqz
wuoxzrfcntcoeridrsiohsricer oevrqzrsch,rOrvuwrihjrxupicn,reirqu.jru
auhij,r voavruerxuterOrdohotvjw:rtirevue,rpzrwossohsrurauhuxreiroeridrtom
djjer owjruhwrdicnrdjjerwjjf,rOrpnicsveroeroheirevjranjj.,ruxqitervuxdru
qoxjkrrUtrdinrevjrdonte,r voavr utrtiryutexzrpos,rdinrOrquwjroer oevice
aihtowjnohsrpjdinjvuhw,rutrOricsvereirvuyjrwihj,rvi rOrtvicxwrpjrupxjrei
xuchavroe,rti,rhjyjnrpjohsrupxjreirpnohsroeroheirevjr uejn,rinrpnohsrevj
 uejnreiroe,rOr utripxosjwreirxjeroerxojr vjnjroer utrutrurqjqinuhwcqrei
ejuavrqjreirpjr otjnrevjrhjmereoqj:rohwjjw,revjrhjmereoqj,revicsvrOraicxw
hiersjerurenjjrfnifjnrdinroe,ruhwr utrohrurfxuajr vjnjrOraicxwrhiersje
evjr uejnreiroerueruhzrxjttrwoteuhajrevuh,rutrOrvuyjrtuow,rhjunrvuxdru
qoxj,rzje,rutrOrtu roer utrfnuaeoaupxjruerxute,rOrhjyjnrsuyjroeriyjn;ruhw
evicsvrOr utrhjunre irzjuntrupiceroe,rzjerOrhjyjnrsncwsjwrqzrxupicn,roh
vifjtridrvuyohsrurpiuereirsiriddreirtjuruerxutek

Vi jyjn,revicsvrqzrxoeexjrfjnouscur utrdohotvjw,rzjerevjrtogjridroer ut
hierueruxxruht jnupxjreirevjrwjtoshr voavrOrvuwrohryoj r vjhrOrquwjrevj
donte;rOrqjuhridryjhecnohsriyjnreirevjr_ejnnurdonqu_,r vjnjroer utrupiyj
dinezrqoxjtrpniuw;ruaainwohsxz,revjrtquxxhjttridrqzrpiueruttotejwreirfce
uhrjhwreirevuerwjtosh,ruhwrhi rOrevicsverhirqinjridroekrrUtrOrvuwrurpiue,
qzrhjmerwjtoshr utreirqu.jrurancotjrnichwrevjrotxuhw;rdinrutrOrvuwrpjjh
ihrevjrievjnrtowjrohrihjrfxuaj,ranittohs,rutrOrvuyjruxnjuwzrwjtanopjwroe,
iyjnrevjrxuhw,rtirevjrwotaiyjnojtrOrquwjrohrevuerxoeexjrbicnhjzrquwjrqj
yjnzrjusjnreirtjjrievjnrfunetridrevjraiute;ruhwrhi rOrvuwrurpiue,rO
evicsveridrhievohsrpcertuoxohsrnichwrevjrotxuhwk

Dinrevotrfcnfitj,revuerOrqosverwirjyjnzevohsr oevrwotanjeoihruhw
aihtowjnueoih,rOrdoeejwrcfrurxoeexjrquterohrqzrpiue,ruhwrquwjrurtuoxreii
iceridrtiqjridrevjrfojajtridrevjrtvof’trtuoxtr voavrxuzrohrteinj,ruhwrid
 voavrOrvuwrursnjuerteia.rpzrqjkrrVuyohsrdoeejwrqzrquteruhwrtuox,ruhw
enojwrevjrpiue,rOrdichwrtvjr icxwrtuoxryjnzr jxx;revjhrOrquwjrxoeexj
xia.jntrinrpimjtruerjuavrjhwridrqzrpiue,reirfcerfniyotoiht,rhjajttunojt,
uqqchoeoih,r&ak,rohei,reirpjr.jferwnz,rjoevjnrdniqrnuohrinrevjrtfnuzrid
evjrtju;ruhwrurxoeexj,rxihs,rvixxi rfxuajrOracerohrevjrohtowjridrevj
piue,r vjnjrOraicxwrxuzrqzrsch,rqu.ohsrurdxufreirvuhsrwi hriyjnroerei
.jjfroerwnzk

Ordomjwrqzrcqpnjxxuruxtirohrevjrtejfruerevjrtejnh,rxo.jrurqute,reirteuhw
iyjnrqzrvjuw,ruhwr.jjfrevjrvjueridrevjrtchriddrqj,rxo.jruhru hohs;ruhw
evctrOrjyjnzrhi ruhwrevjhreii.rurxoeexjryizusjrcfihrevjrtju,rpcerhjyjn
 jherdunrice,rhinrdunrdniqrevjrxoeexjranjj.krrUerxute,rpjohsrjusjnrei
yoj revjraonacqdjnjhajridrqzrxoeexjr.ohswiq,rOrnjtixyjwrcfihrqzrancotj;
uhwruaainwohsxzrOryoaecuxxjwrqzrtvofrdinrevjryizusj,rfceeohsrohre irwigjh
idrxiuyjtr(au.jtrOrtvicxwrauxxrevjq)ridrpunxjz-pnjuw,ruhrjunevjhrfierdcxx
idrfunavjwrnoajr(urdiiwrOruejrursiiwrwjuxrid),rurxoeexjrpieexjridrncq,
vuxdrursiue,ruhwrfi wjnruhwrtvierdinr.oxxohsrqinj,ruhwre irxunsj
 ueav-aiuet,ridrevitjr voav,rutrOrqjheoihjwrpjdinj,rOrvuwrtuyjwricerid
evjrtjuqjh’travjtet;revjtjrOreii.,rihjreirxojrcfih,ruhwrevjrievjnrei
aiyjnrqjrohrevjrhosvek

Oer utrevjr6evridrHiyjqpjn,rohrevjrtomevrzjunridrqzrnjosh—inrqz
aufeoyoez,r voavrzicrfxjutj—evuerOrtjericerihrevotryizusj,ruhwrOrdichwroe
qcavrxihsjnrevuhrOrjmfjaejw;rdinrevicsvrevjrotxuhwroetjxdr utrhieryjnz
xunsj,rzjer vjhrOrauqjreirevjrjutertowjridroe,rOrdichwrursnjuerxjwsjrid
nia.trxojricerupicere irxjuscjtroheirevjrtju,rtiqjrupiyjr uejn,rtiqj
chwjnroe;ruhwrpjzihwrevuerurtviuxridrtuhw,rxzohsrwnzrvuxdrurxjuscjrqinj,
tirevuerOr utripxosjwreirsirursnjuer uzricereirtjureirwicpxjrevjrfiohek

 vjhrOrdonterwotaiyjnjwrevjq,rOr utrsiohsreirsoyjriyjnrqzrjhejnfnotj,ruhw
aiqjrpua.rusuoh,rhier.hi ohsrvi rdunroerqosveripxosjrqjreirsiricereirtju;
uhwrupiyjruxx,rwicpeohsrvi rOrtvicxwrsjerpua.rusuoh:rtirOrauqjreiruh
uhavin;rdinrOrvuwrquwjrur.ohwridruhruhavinr oevrurfojajridrurpni.jh
snuffxohsr voavrOrsiericeridrevjrtvofk

Vuyohsrtjacnjwrqzrpiue,rOreii.rqzrschruhwr jherihrtvinj,raxoqpohsrcfru
voxx,r voavrtjjqjwreiriyjnxii.revuerfioher vjnjrOrtu revjrdcxxrjmejherid
oe,ruhwrnjtixyjwreiryjhecnjk

Ohrqzryoj ohsrevjrtjurdniqrevuervoxxr vjnjrOrteiiw,rOrfjnajoyjwrurtenihs,
uhwrohwjjwrurqiterdcnoictracnnjhe,r voavrnuhreirevjrjute,ruhwrjyjhrauqj
axitjreirevjrfiohe;ruhwrOreii.revjrqinjrhieoajridroerpjauctjrOrtu revjnj
qosverpjrtiqjrwuhsjnrevuer vjhrOrauqjroheiroerOrqosverpjraunnojwricerei
tjurpzrevjrtenjhsevridroe,ruhwrhierpjrupxjreirqu.jrevjrotxuhwrusuoh;ruhw
ohwjjw,rvuwrOrhiersierdontercfihrevotrvoxx,rOrpjxojyjroer icxwrvuyjrpjjh
ti;rdinrevjnjr utrevjrtuqjracnnjherihrevjrievjnrtowjrevjrotxuhw,rihxz
evueroertjeriddruerurdcnevjnrwoteuhaj,ruhwrOrtu revjnjr utrurtenihsrjwwz
chwjnrevjrtvinj;rtirOrvuwrhievohsreirwirpcereirsjericeridrevjrdonte
acnnjhe,ruhwrOrtvicxwrfnjtjhexzrpjrohruhrjwwzk

Orxuzrvjnj,rvi jyjn,re irwuzt,rpjauctjrevjr ohwrpxi ohsrfnjeezrdnjtvrue
JTJk,ruhwrevuerpjohsrbcteraihenunzreirevjracnnjhe,rquwjrursnjuerpnjuavrid
evjrtjurcfihrevjrfiohe:rtirevueroer utrhiertudjrdinrqjreir.jjfreiiraxitj
eirevjrtvinjrdinrevjrpnjuav,rhinreirsireiirdunridd,rpjauctjridrevj
tenjuqk

Evjrevonwrwuz,rohrevjrqinhohs,revjr ohwrvuyohsrupuejwriyjnhosve,revjrtju
 utrauxq,ruhwrOryjhecnjw:rpcerOruqrur unhohsreiruxxrnutvruhwroshinuhe
foxiet;rdinrhirtiihjnr utrOraiqjreirevjrfiohe,r vjhrOr utrhierjyjhrqz
piue’trxjhsevrdniqrevjrtvinj,rpcerOrdichwrqztjxdrohrursnjuerwjfevrid
 uejn,ruhwruracnnjherxo.jrevjrtxcoajridrurqoxx;roeraunnojwrqzrpiueruxihs
 oevroer oevrtcavryoixjhajrevueruxxrOraicxwrwiraicxwrhier.jjfrvjnrtirqcav
utrihrevjrjwsjridroe;rpcerOrdichwroervcnnojwrqjrdunevjnruhwrdunevjnrice
dniqrevjrjwwz,r voavr utrihrqzrxjdervuhwkrrEvjnjr utrhir ohwrteonnohsrei
vjxfrqj,ruhwruxxrOraicxwrwir oevrqzrfuwwxjtrtoshodojwrhievohs:ruhwrhi rO
pjsuhreirsoyjrqztjxdriyjnrdinrxite;rdinrutrevjracnnjher utrihrpievrtowjt
idrevjrotxuhw,rOr.hj rohrurdj rxjuscjtrwoteuhajrevjzrqcterbiohrusuoh,ruhw
evjhrOr utronnjaiyjnupxzrsihj;rhinrwowrOrtjjruhzrfittopoxoezridruyiowohs
oe;rtirevuerOrvuwrhirfnitfjaerpjdinjrqjrpceridrfjnotvohs,rhierpzrevjrtju,
dinrevuer utrauxqrjhicsv,rpceridrteunyohsrdniqrvchsjnkrrOrvuw,rohwjjw,
dichwrureineiotjrihrevjrtvinj,rutrposruxqiterutrOraicxwrxode,ruhwrvuw
eittjwroeroheirevjrpiue;ruhwrOrvuwrursnjuerbunridrdnjtvr uejn,revuerotrei
tuz,rihjridrqzrjunevjhrfiet;rpcer vuer utruxxrevotreirpjohsrwnoyjhrohei
evjryuteriajuh,r vjnj,reirpjrtcnj,revjnjr utrhirtvinj,rhirquohxuhwrin
otxuhw,rdinrurevictuhwrxjuscjtruerxjute?

Uhwrhi rOrtu rvi rjutzroer utrdinrevjrfniyowjhajridrSiwreirqu.jrjyjhrevj
qiterqotjnupxjraihwoeoihridrquh.ohwr intjkrrHi rOrxii.jwrpua.rcfihrqz
wjtixuej,rtixoeunzrotxuhwrutrevjrqiterfxjutuherfxuajrohrevjr inxwruhwruxx
evjrvuffohjttrqzrvjuneraicxwr otvrdinr utreirpjrpcerevjnjrusuohkrrO
tenjeavjwricerqzrvuhwtreiroe,r oevrjusjnr otvjt—“Irvuffzrwjtjne!”rtuowrO,
“OrtvuxxrhjyjnrtjjrevjjrqinjkrrIrqotjnupxjranjuecnj!r voevjnruqrsiohs?”
EvjhrOrnjfniuavjwrqztjxdr oevrqzrchevuh.dcxrejqfjn,ruhwrevuerOrvuw
njfohjwruerqzrtixoeunzraihwoeoih;ruhwrhi r vuer icxwrOrsoyjreirpjrih
tvinjrevjnjrusuoh!rrEvct,r jrhjyjnrtjjrevjrencjrteuejridricnraihwoeoih
eoxxroerotroxxctenuejwreirctrpzroetraihenunojt,rhinr.hi rvi reiryuxcj
 vuer jrjhbiz,rpcerpzrevjr uheridroekrrOerotrtaunajxzrfittopxjreiroqusohj
evjraihtejnhueoihrOr utrhi roh,rpjohsrwnoyjhrdniqrqzrpjxiyjwrotxuhwr(din
tiroeruffjunjwreirqjrhi reirpj)roheirevjr owjriajuh,ruxqitere irxjuscjt,
uhwrohrevjrceqiterwjtfuonridrjyjnrnjaiyjnohsroerusuohkrrVi jyjn,rOr in.jw
vunwreoxx,rohwjjw,rqzrtenjhsevr utruxqiterjmvuctejw,ruhwr.jferqzrpiuerut
qcavreirevjrhinev unw,revuerot,rei unwtrevjrtowjridrevjracnnjher voavrevj
jwwzrxuzrih,rutrfittopxzrOraicxw;r vjhrupicerhiih,rutrevjrtchrfuttjwrevj
qjnowouh,rOrevicsverOrdjxerurxoeexjrpnjjgjridr ohwrohrqzrduaj,rtfnohsohs
cfrdniqrTTJkrrEvotravjjnjwrqzrvjunerurxoeexj,ruhwrjtfjaouxxzr vjh,roh
upicervuxd-uh-vicnrqinj,roerpxj rurfnjeezrsjhexjrsuxjkrrPzrevotreoqjrO
vuwrsieruerurdnosvedcxrwoteuhajrdniqrevjrotxuhw,ruhwrvuwrevjrxjuteraxicwz
inrvugzr juevjnrohejnyjhjw,rOrvuwrpjjhrchwihjruhievjnr uz,reii;rdinrOrvuw
hiraiqfuttrihrpiunw,ruhwrtvicxwrhjyjnrvuyjr.hi hrvi reirvuyjrtejjnjw
ei unwtrevjrotxuhw,rodrOrvuwrpcerihajrxitertosveridroe;rpcerevjr juevjn
aiheohcohsraxjun,rOruffxojwrqztjxdreirsjercfrqzrquterusuoh,ruhwrtfnjuwrqz
tuox,rteuhwohsru uzreirevjrhinevrutrqcavrutrfittopxj,reirsjericeridrevj
acnnjhek

BcterutrOrvuwrtjerqzrquteruhwrtuox,ruhwrevjrpiuerpjsuhreirtenjeavru uz,rO
tu rjyjhrpzrevjraxjunhjttridrevjr uejnrtiqjruxejnueoihridrevjracnnjher ut
hjun;rdinr vjnjrevjracnnjher utrtirtenihsrevjr uejnr utrdicx;rpce
fjnajoyohsrevjr uejnraxjun,rOrdichwrevjracnnjherupuej;ruhwrfnjtjhexzrO
dichwreirevjrjute,ruerupicervuxdrurqoxj,rurpnjuavridrevjrtjurcfihrtiqj
nia.t:revjtjrnia.trOrdichwrauctjwrevjracnnjhereirfunerusuoh,ruhwrutrevj
quohrtenjttridroernuhru uzrqinjrticevjnxz,rxjuyohsrevjrnia.treirevj
hinev-jute,rtirevjrievjnrnjecnhjwrpzrevjrnjfcxtjridrevjrnia.t,ruhwrquwjru
tenihsrjwwz,r voavrnuhrpua.rusuohreirevjrhinev- jte,r oevruryjnzrtvunf
tenjuqk

Evjzr vir.hi r vueroerotreirvuyjrurnjfnojyjrpnicsvereirevjqrcfihrevj
xuwwjn,rinreirpjrnjtacjwrdniqrevojyjtrbctersiohsreirqcnwjnrevjq,rinr vi
vuyjrpjjhrohrtcavrjmenjqoeojt,rquzrscjttr vuerqzrfnjtjhertcnfnotjridrbiz
 ut,ruhwrvi rsxuwxzrOrfcerqzrpiueroheirevjrtenjuqridrevotrjwwz;ruhwrevj
 ohwruxtirdnjtvjhohs,rvi rsxuwxzrOrtfnjuwrqzrtuoxreiroe,rnchhohs
avjjndcxxzrpjdinjrevjr ohw,ruhwr oevrurtenihsreowjrinrjwwzrchwjndiiek

Evotrjwwzraunnojwrqjrupicerurxjuscjrihrqzr uzrpua.rusuoh,rwonjaexz
ei unwtrevjrotxuhw,rpcerupicere irxjuscjtrqinjreirevjrhinev unwrevuhrevj
acnnjher voavraunnojwrqjru uzruerdonte;rtirevuer vjhrOrauqjrhjunrevj
otxuhw,rOrdichwrqztjxdrifjhreirevjrhinevjnhrtvinjridroe,revuerotreirtuz,
evjrievjnrjhwridrevjrotxuhw,riffitoejreirevuer voavrOr jhericerdniqk

 vjhrOrvuwrquwjrtiqjevohsrqinjrevuhrurxjuscjridr uzrpzrevjrvjxfridrevot
acnnjherinrjwwz,rOrdichwroer utrtfjhe,ruhwrtjnyjwrqjrhirdcnevjnk
Vi jyjn,rOrdichwrevuerpjohsrpje jjhre irsnjueracnnjhet—yogkrevuerihrevj
ticevrtowj,r voavrvuwrvcnnojwrqjru uz,ruhwrevuerihrevjrhinev,r voavrxuz
upicerurxjuscjrihrevjrievjnrtowj;rOrtuz,rpje jjhrevjtjre i,rohrevjr u.j
idrevjrotxuhw,rOrdichwrevjr uejnruerxjuterteoxx,ruhwrnchhohsrhir uz;ruhw
vuyohsrteoxxrurpnjjgjridr ohwrduonrdinrqj,rOr.jferihrtejjnohsrwonjaexz
dinrevjrotxuhw,revicsvrhierqu.ohsrtcavrdnjtvr uzrutrOrwowrpjdinjk

Upicerdicnri’axia.rohrevjrjyjhohs,rpjohsrevjhr oevohrurxjuscjridrevj
otxuhw,rOrdichwrevjrfioheridrevjrnia.tr voavriaautoihjwrevotrwotutejn
tenjeavohsrice,rutrotrwjtanopjwrpjdinj,reirevjrticev unw,ruhwrauteohsridd
evjracnnjherqinjrticevjnxz,rvuw,ridraicntj,rquwjruhievjnrjwwzreirevj
hinev;ruhwrevotrOrdichwryjnzrtenihs,rpcerhierwonjaexzrtjeeohsrevjr uzrqz
aicntjrxuz,r voavr utrwcjr jte,rpceruxqiterdcxxrhinevkrrVi jyjn,rvuyohsru
dnjtvrsuxj,rOrtenjeavjwruanittrevotrjwwz,rtxuheohsrhinev- jte;ruhwroh
upiceruhrvicnrauqjr oevohrupicerurqoxjridrevjrtvinj,r vjnj,roerpjohs
tqiievr uejn,rOrtiihrsiereirxuhwk

 vjhrOr utrihrtvinj,rSiwrOrdjxxrihrqzr.hjjtruhwrsuyjrSiwrevuh.trdinrqz
wjxoyjnuhaj,rnjtixyohsreirxuzrutowjruxxrevicsvetridrqzrwjxoyjnuhajrpzrqz
piue;ruhwrnjdnjtvohsrqztjxdr oevrtcavrevohstrutrOrvuw,rOrpnicsverqzrpiue
axitjreirevjrtvinj,rohrurxoeexjraiyjrevuerOrvuwrtfojwrchwjnrtiqjrenjjt,
uhwrxuowrqjrwi hreirtxjjf,rpjohsrlcoejrtfjher oevrevjrxupicnruhwrdueoscj
idrevjryizusjk

Or utrhi ruerursnjuerxittr voavr uzreirsjerviqjr oevrqzrpiue!rrOrvuwrnch
tirqcavrvugunw,ruhwr.hj reiirqcavridrevjrautj,reirevoh.ridrueejqfeohsroe
pzrevjr uzrOr jherice;ruhwr vuerqosverpjruerevjrievjnrtowjr(Orqjuhrevj
 jtertowj)rOr.hj rhie,rhinrvuwrOruhzrqohwreirnchruhzrqinjryjhecnjt;rtirO
njtixyjwrihrevjrhjmerqinhohsreirqu.jrqzr uzr jte unwruxihsrevjrtvinj,ruhw
eirtjjrodrevjnjr utrhiranjj.r vjnjrOrqosverxuzrcfrqzrdnosuejrohrtudjez,
tirutreirvuyjrvjnrusuohrodrOr uhejwrvjnkrrOhrupicerevnjjrqoxjtrin
evjnjupicet,raiuteohsrevjrtvinj,rOrauqjreiruryjnzrsiiwrohxjerinrpuz,
upicerurqoxjriyjn,r voavrhunni jwreoxxroerauqjreiruryjnzrxoeexjrnoycxje
inrpnii.,r vjnjrOrdichwruryjnzraihyjhojhervunpicnrdinrqzrpiue,ruhwr vjnj
tvjrxuzrutrodrtvjrvuwrpjjhrohrurxoeexjrwia.rquwjrihrfcnfitjrdinrvjnk
VjnjrOrfceroh,ruhwrvuyohsrtei jwrqzrpiueryjnzrtudj,rOr jherihrtvinjrei
xii.rupicerqj,ruhwrtjjr vjnjrOr utk

OrtiihrdichwrOrvuwrpcerurxoeexjrfuttjwrpzrevjrfxuajr vjnjrOrvuwrpjjh
pjdinj,r vjhrOrenuyjxxjwrihrdiiereirevuertvinj;rtireu.ohsrhievohsricerid
qzrpiuerpcerqzrschruhwrcqpnjxxu,rdinroer utrjmajjwohsxzrvie,rOrpjsuhrqz
qunavkrrEvjr uzr utraiqdineupxjrjhicsvrudejnrtcavruryizusjrutrOrvuwrpjjh
cfih,ruhwrOrnjuavjwrqzrixwrpi jnrohrevjrjyjhohs,r vjnjrOrdichwrjyjnzevohs
teuhwohsrutrOrxjderoe;rdinrOrux uztr.jferoerohrsiiwrinwjn,rpjohs,rutrO
tuowrpjdinj,rqzraichenzrvictjk

Orsieriyjnrevjrdjhaj,ruhwrxuowrqjrwi hrohrevjrtvuwjreirnjterqzrxoqpt,rdin
Or utryjnzr junz,ruhwrdjxxrutxjjf;rpcerbcwsjrzic,rodrzicrauh,revuernjuw
qzrteinz,r vuerurtcnfnotjrOrqcterpjrohr vjhrOr utru u.jwriceridrqzrtxjjf
pzruryioajrauxxohsrqjrpzrqzrhuqjrtjyjnuxreoqjt,r“Nipoh,rNipoh,rNipoh
Anctij:rfiinrNipohrAnctij!rr vjnjrunjrzic,rNipohrAnctij?rr vjnjrunjrzic?
 vjnjrvuyjrzicrpjjh?”

Or utrtirwjuwrutxjjfruerdonte,rpjohsrdueoscjwr oevrni ohs,rinrfuneridrevj
wuz,ruhwr oevr ux.ohsrevjrxueejnrfune,revuerOrwowrhier u.jrevinicsvxz;
pcerwigohsrevicsverOrwnjuqjwrevuertiqjpiwzrtfi.jreirqj;rpcerutrevjryioaj
aiheohcjwreirnjfjue,r“NipohrAnctij,rNipohrAnctij,”ruerxuterOrpjsuhrei
 u.jrqinjrfjndjaexz,ruhwr utruerdonterwnjuwdcxxzrdnosvejhjw,ruhwrteunejw
cfrohrevjrceqiteraihtejnhueoih;rpcerhirtiihjnr jnjrqzrjzjtrifjh,rpcerO
tu rqzrFixxrtoeeohsrihrevjreifridrevjrvjwsj;ruhwroqqjwouejxzr.hj revueroe
 utrvjrevuertfi.jreirqj;rdinrbcterohrtcavrpjqiuhohsrxuhscusjrOrvuwrctjw
eireux.reirvoqruhwrejuavrvoq;ruhwrvjrvuwrxjunhjwroertirfjndjaexzrevuervj
 icxwrtoercfihrqzrdohsjn,ruhwrxuzrvotrpoxxraxitjreirqzrduajruhwranz,
“FiinrNipohrAnctij!rr vjnjrunjrzic?rr vjnjrvuyjrzicrpjjh?rrVi rauqjrzic
vjnj?”ruhwrtcavrevohstrutrOrvuwreucsvervoqk

Vi jyjn,rjyjhrevicsvrOr.hj roer utrevjrfunnie,ruhwrevuerohwjjwroeraicxw
pjrhipiwzrjxtj,roer utrursiiwr voxjrpjdinjrOraicxwraiqfitjrqztjxdk
Donte,rOr utruqugjwrvi revjranjuecnjrsierevoevjn;ruhwrevjh,rvi rvjrtvicxw
bcter.jjfrupicerevjrfxuaj,ruhwrhi vjnjrjxtj;rpcerutrOr utr jxxrtueotdojw
oeraicxwrpjrhipiwzrpcervihjterFixx,rOrsieriyjnroe;ruhwrvixwohsricerqz
vuhw,ruhwrauxxohsrvoqrpzrvotrhuqj,r“Fixx,”revjrtiaoupxjranjuecnjrauqjrei
qj,ruhwrtuercfihrqzrevcqp,rutrvjrctjwreirwi,ruhwraiheohcjwreux.ohsreirqj,
“FiinrNipohrAnctij!ruhwrvi rwowrOraiqjrvjnj?ruhwr vjnjrvuwrOrpjjh?”rbcte
utrodrvjrvuwrpjjhriyjnbizjwreirtjjrqjrusuoh;ruhwrtirOraunnojwrvoqrviqj
uxihsr oevrqjk

Orvuwrhi rvuwrjhicsvridrnuqpxohsreirtjurdinrtiqjreoqj,ruhwrvuwrjhicsvrei
wirdinrquhzrwuztreirtoerteoxxruhwrnjdxjaercfihrevjrwuhsjnrOrvuwrpjjhrohk
Or icxwrvuyjrpjjhryjnzrsxuwreirvuyjrvuwrqzrpiuerusuohrihrqzrtowjridrevj
otxuhw;rpcerOr.hj rhiervi roer utrfnuaeoaupxjreirsjeroerupicekrrUtreirevj
jutertowjridrevjrotxuhw,r voavrOrvuwrsihjrnichw,rOr.hj r jxxrjhicsvrevjnj
 utrhiryjhecnohsrevuer uz;rqzryjnzrvjuner icxwrtvnoh.,ruhwrqzryjnzrpxiiw
nchravoxx,rpcereirevoh.ridroe;ruhwrutreirevjrievjnrtowjridrevjrotxuhw,rO
wowrhier.hi rvi roerqosverpjrevjnj;rpcertcffitohsrevjracnnjhernuhr oev
evjrtuqjrdinajrusuohterevjrtvinjruerevjrjuterutroerfuttjwrpzroerihrevj
ievjn,rOrqosvernchrevjrtuqjrnot.ridrpjohsrwnoyjhrwi hrevjrtenjuq,ruhw
aunnojwrpzrevjrotxuhw,rutrOrvuwrpjjhrpjdinjridrpjohsraunnojwru uzrdniq
oe:rtir oevrevjtjrevicsvet,rOraihejhejwrqztjxdreirpjr oeviceruhzrpiue,
evicsvroervuwrpjjhrevjrfniwcaeridrtirquhzrqihevt’rxupicnreirqu.jroe,ruhw
idrtirquhzrqinjreirsjeroeroheirevjrtjuk

OhrevotrsiyjnhqjheridrqzrejqfjnrOrnjquohjwrhjunrurzjun;ruhwrxoyjwruryjnz
tjwuej,rnjeonjwrxodj,rutrzicrquzr jxxrtcffitj;ruhwrqzrevicsvetrpjohsryjnz
qcavraiqfitjwrutreirqzraihwoeoih,ruhwrdcxxzraiqdinejwrohrnjtoshohsrqztjxd
eirevjrwotfitoeoihtridrFniyowjhaj,rOrevicsverOrxoyjwrnjuxxzryjnzrvuffoxz
ohruxxrevohstrjmajferevueridrtiaojezk

Oroqfniyjwrqztjxdrohrevotreoqjrohruxxrevjrqjavuhoarjmjnaotjtr voavrqz
hjajttoeojtrfcerqjrcfihruffxzohsrqztjxdrei;ruhwrOrpjxojyjrOrtvicxw,rcfih
iaautoih,rvuyjrquwjruryjnzrsiiwraunfjhejn,rjtfjaouxxzraihtowjnohsrvi rdj 
eiixtrOrvuwk

Pjtowjtrevot,rOrunnoyjwrueruhrchjmfjaejwrfjndjaeoihrohrqzrjunevjh unj,
uhwraihenoyjwr jxxrjhicsvreirqu.jrevjqr oevrur vjjx,r voavrOrdichw
ohdohoejxzrjutojnruhwrpjeejn;rpjauctjrOrquwjrevohstrnichwruhwrtvufjw,
 voavrpjdinjr jnjrdoxevzrevohstrohwjjwreirxii.rihkrrPcerOrevoh.rOr ut
hjyjnrqinjryuohridrqzri hrfjndinquhaj,rinrqinjrbizdcxrdinruhzevohsrO
dichwrice,revuhrdinrqzrpjohsrupxjreirqu.jrureipuaai-fofj;ruhwrevicsvroe
 utruryjnzrcsxz,raxcqtzrevohsr vjhroer utrwihj,ruhwrihxzrpcnhjwrnjw,rxo.j
ievjnrjunevjh unj,rzjerutroer utrvunwruhwrdonq,ruhwr icxwrwnu revjrtqi.j,
Or utrjmajjwohsxzraiqdinejwr oevroe,rdinrOrvuwrpjjhrux uztrctjwreirtqi.j;
uhwrevjnjr jnjrfofjtrohrevjrtvof,rpcerOrdinsierevjqruerdonte,rhie
evoh.ohsrevjnjr utreipuaairohrevjrotxuhw;ruhwrudejn unwt,r vjhrOrtjunavjw
evjrtvofrusuoh,rOraicxwrhieraiqjrueruhzrfofjtk

Ohrqzr oa.jn- unjruxtirOroqfniyjwrqcav,ruhwrquwjrupchwuhajridrhjajttunz
put.jet,rutr jxxrutrqzrohyjheoihrtvi jwrqj;revicsvrhieryjnzrvuhwtiqj,rzje
evjzr jnjrtcavrutr jnjryjnzrvuhwzruhwraihyjhojherdinrxuzohsrevohstrcfroh,
inrdjeavohsrevohstrviqjkrrDinrjmuqfxj,rodrOr.oxxjwrursiuerupniuw,rOraicxw
vuhsroercfrohrurenjj,rdxuzroe,rwnjttroe,ruhwraceroerohrfojajt,ruhwrpnohs
oerviqjrohrurput.je;ruhwrevjrxo.jrpzrurecnexj;rOraicxwraceroercf,reu.j
icerevjrjsstruhwrurfojajrinre iridrevjrdxjtv,r voavr utrjhicsvrdinrqj,
uhwrpnohsrevjqrviqjrohrurput.je,ruhwrxjuyjrevjrnjterpjvohwrqjkrrUxti,
xunsjrwjjfrput.jetr jnjrevjrnjajoyjntridrqzrainh,r voavrOrux uztrncppjw
icerutrtiihrutroer utrwnzruhwracnjw,ruhwr.jferoerohrsnjuerput.jetk

Orpjsuhrhi reirfjnajoyjrqzrfi wjnrupuejwraihtowjnupxz;revotr utrur uhe
 voavroer utroqfittopxjrdinrqjreirtcffxz,ruhwrOrpjsuhrtjnoictxzrei
aihtowjnr vuerOrqcterwir vjhrOrtvicxwrvuyjrhirqinjrfi wjn;revuerotrei
tuz,rvi rOrtvicxwr.oxxruhzrsiuetkrrOrvuw,rutrotriptjnyjwrohrevjrevonw
zjunridrqzrpjohsrvjnj,r.jferurzichsr.ow,ruhwrpnjwrvjnrcfreuqj,ruhwrOr ut
ohrvifjtridrsjeeohsrurvj-siue;rpcerOraicxwrhierpzruhzrqjuhtrpnohsroerei
futt,reoxxrqzr.owrsnj ruhrixwrsiue;ruhwrutrOraicxwrhjyjnrdohwrohrqzrvjune
eir.oxxrvjn,rtvjrwojwruerxuteridrqjnjrusjk

Pcerpjohsrhi rohrevjrjxjyjhevrzjunridrqzrnjtowjhaj,ruhw,rutrOrvuyjrtuow,
qzruqqchoeoihrsni ohsrxi ,rOrtjerqztjxdreirtecwzrtiqjrunereirenufruhw
thunjrevjrsiuet,reirtjjr vjevjnrOraicxwrhieraueavrtiqjridrevjqruxoyj;ruhw
funeoacxunxzrOr uhejwrurtvj-siuersnjuer oevrzichskrrDinrevotrfcnfitjrO
quwjrthunjtreirvuqfjnrevjq;ruhwrOrwirpjxojyjrevjzr jnjrqinjrevuhrihaj
eu.jhrohrevjq;rpcerqzreua.xjr utrhiersiiw,rdinrOrvuwrhir onj,ruhwrO
ux uztrdichwrevjqrpni.jhruhwrqzrpuoerwjyicnjwkrrUerxjhsevrOrnjtixyjwrei
enzrurfoeduxx;rtirOrwcsrtjyjnuxrxunsjrfoetrohrevjrjunev,rohrfxuajtr vjnj
Orvuwriptjnyjwrevjrsiuetrctjwreirdjjw,ruhwriyjnrevitjrfoetrOrfxuajw
vcnwxjtridrqzri hrqu.ohsreii,r oevrursnjuer josvercfihrevjq;ruhwrtjyjnux
eoqjtrOrfcerjuntridrpunxjzruhwrwnzrnoajr oevicertjeeohsrevjrenuf;ruhwrO
aicxwrjutoxzrfjnajoyjrevuerevjrsiuetrvuwrsihjrohruhwrjuejhrcfrevjrainh,
dinrOraicxwrtjjrevjrqun.tridrevjonrdjjekrrUerxjhsevrOrtjerevnjjrenuftroh
ihjrhosve,ruhwrsiohsrevjrhjmerqinhohsrOrdichwrevjq,ruxxrteuhwohs,ruhwrzje
evjrpuoerjuejhruhwrsihj;revotr utryjnzrwotaicnusohskrrVi jyjn,rOruxejnjw
qzrenuft;ruhwrhiereirenicpxjrzicr oevrfuneoacxunt,rsiohsrihjrqinhohsrei
tjjrqzrenuft,rOrdichwrohrihjridrevjqrurxunsjrixwrvj-siue;ruhwrohrihjrid
evjrievjntrevnjjr.owt,rurquxjruhwre irdjquxjtk

Utreirevjrixwrihj,rOr.hj rhier vuereirwir oevrvoq;rvjr utrtirdojnajrO
wcnterhiersiroheirevjrfoereirvoq;revuerotreirtuz,reirpnohsrvoqru uz
uxoyj,r voavr utr vuerOr uhejwkrrOraicxwrvuyjr.oxxjwrvoq,rpcerevuer ut
hierqzrpctohjtt,rhinr icxwroeruht jnrqzrjhw;rtirOrjyjhrxjervoqrice,ruhw
vjrnuhru uzrutrodrvjrvuwrpjjhrdnosvejhjwriceridrvotr oetkrrPcerOrwowrhie
evjhr.hi r vuerOrudejn unwtrxjunhjw,revuervchsjnr oxxreuqjrurxoihkrrOdrO
vuwrxjervoqrteuzrevnjjrinrdicnrwuztr oevicerdiiw,ruhwrevjhrvuyjraunnojw
voqrtiqjr uejnreirwnoh.ruhwrevjhrurxoeexjrainh,rvjr icxwrvuyjrpjjhrut
euqjrutrihjridrevjr.owt;rdinrevjzrunjrqosvezrtusuaoict,renuaeupxj
anjuecnjt,r vjnjrevjzrunjr jxxrctjwk

Vi jyjn,rdinrevjrfnjtjherOrxjervoqrsi,r.hi ohsrhirpjeejnruerevuereoqj:
evjhrOr jhereirevjrevnjjr.owt,ruhwreu.ohsrevjqrihjrpzrihj,rOreojwrevjq
 oevrtenohstreisjevjn,ruhwr oevrtiqjrwoddoacxezrpnicsverevjqruxxrviqjk

Oer utrursiiwr voxjrpjdinjrevjzr icxwrdjjw;rpcerevni ohsrevjqrtiqjrt jje
ainh,roerejqfejwrevjq,ruhwrevjzrpjsuhreirpjreuqjkrrUhwrhi rOrdichwrevue
odrOrjmfjaejwreirtcffxzrqztjxdr oevrsiuet’rdxjtv,r vjhrOrvuwrhirfi wjnrin
tvierxjde,rpnjjwohsrtiqjrcfreuqjr utrqzrihxzr uz,r vjh,rfjnvuft,rOrqosve
vuyjrevjqrupicerqzrvictjrxo.jrurdxia.ridrtvjjfkrrPcerevjhroeriaacnnjwrei
qjrevuerOrqcter.jjfrevjreuqjrdniqrevjr oxw,rinrjxtjrevjzr icxwrux uztrnch
 oxwr vjhrevjzrsnj rcf;ruhwrevjrihxzr uzrdinrevotr utreirvuyjrtiqj
jhaxitjwrfojajridrsnichw,r jxxrdjhajwrjoevjnr oevrvjwsjrinrfuxj,reir.jjf
evjqrohrtirjddjaecuxxz,revuerevitjr oevohrqosverhierpnju.rice,rinrevitj
 oevicerpnju.rohk

Evotr utrursnjuerchwjneu.ohsrdinrihjrfuonridrvuhwtrzje,rutrOrtu revjnj
 utruhruptixcejrhjajttoezrdinrwiohsroe,rqzrdonter in.r utreirdohwriceru
fnifjnrfojajridrsnichw,r vjnjrevjnjr utrxo.jxzreirpjrvjnpusjrdinrevjqrei
jue,r uejnrdinrevjqreirwnoh.,ruhwraiyjnreir.jjfrevjqrdniqrevjrtchk

Evitjr virchwjnteuhwrtcavrjhaxitcnjtr oxxrevoh.rOrvuwryjnzrxoeexj
aihenoyuhajr vjhrOrfoeavjwrcfihrurfxuajryjnzrfnifjnrdinruxxrevjtjr(pjohs
urfxuoh,rifjhrfojajridrqjuwi rxuhw,rinrtuyuhhuv,rutricnrfjifxjrauxxroeroh
evjr jtejnhraixihojt),r voavrvuwre irinrevnjjrxoeexjrwnoxxtridrdnjtv
 uejnrohroe,ruhwruerihjrjhwr utryjnzr iiwz—Ortuz,revjzr oxxrtqoxjruerqz
dinjaute,r vjhrOrtvuxxrejxxrevjqrOrpjsuhrpzrjhaxitohsrevotrfojajrid
snichwrohrtcavrurquhhjnrevue,rqzrvjwsjrinrfuxjrqctervuyjrpjjhruerxjute
e irqoxjtrupicekrrHinr utrevjrquwhjttridroertirsnjuerutreirevjraiqfutt,
dinrodroer utrejhrqoxjtrupice,rOr utrxo.jreirvuyjreoqjrjhicsvreirwiroe
oh;rpcerOrwowrhieraihtowjnrevuerqzrsiuetr icxwrpjrutr oxwrohrtirqcav
aiqfuttrutrodrevjzrvuwrvuwrevjr vixjrotxuhw,ruhwrOrtvicxwrvuyjrtirqcav
niiqreiravutjrevjqrohrevuerOrtvicxwrhjyjnraueavrevjqk

Qzrvjwsjr utrpjschruhwraunnojwrih,rOrpjxojyj,rupicerdodezrzunwtr vjhrevot
evicsveriaacnnjwreirqj;rtirOrfnjtjhexzrteiffjwrtvine,ruhw,rdinrevj
pjsohhohs,rOrnjtixyjwreirjhaxitjrurfojajridrupicerihjrvchwnjwruhwrdodez
zunwtrohrxjhsev,ruhwrihjrvchwnjwrzunwtrohrpnjuwev,r voav,rutroer icxw
quoheuohrutrquhzrutrOrtvicxwrvuyjrohruhzrnjutihupxjreoqj,rti,rutrqzrteia.
ohanjutjw,rOraicxwruwwrqinjrsnichwreirqzrjhaxitcnjk

Evotr utruaeohsr oevrtiqjrfncwjhaj,ruhwrOr jhereir in.r oevraicnusjkrrO
 utrupicerevnjjrqihevtrvjwsohsrohrevjrdonterfojaj;ruhw,reoxxrOrvuwrwihj
oe,rOrejevjnjwrevjrevnjjr.owtrohrevjrpjterfuneridroe,ruhwrctjwrevjqrei
djjwrutrhjunrqjrutrfittopxj,reirqu.jrevjqrduqoxoun;ruhwryjnzridejhrO
 icxwrsiruhwraunnzrevjqrtiqjrjuntridrpunxjz,rinrurvuhwdcxridrnoaj,ruhw
djjwrevjqriceridrqzrvuhw;rtirevuerudejnrqzrjhaxitcnjr utrdohotvjwruhwrO
xjerevjqrxiitj,revjzr icxwrdixxi rqjrcfruhwrwi h,rpxjueohsrudejnrqjrdinru
vuhwdcxridrainhk

Evotruht jnjwrqzrjhw,ruhwrohrupicerurzjunruhwrurvuxdrOrvuwrurdxia.rid
upicere jxyjrsiuet,r.owtruhwruxx;ruhwrohre irzjuntrqinjrOrvuw
evnjj-uhw-dinez,rpjtowjtrtjyjnuxrevuerOreii.ruhwr.oxxjwrdinrqzrdiiwk
Udejnrevue,rOrjhaxitjwrdoyjrtjyjnuxrfojajtridrsnichwreirdjjwrevjqroh,
 oevrxoeexjrfjhtreirwnoyjrevjqreireu.jrevjqrutrOr uhejw,ruhwrsuejtricerid
ihjrfojajridrsnichwroheiruhievjnk

Pcerevotr utrhieruxx;rdinrhi rOrhierihxzrvuwrsiue’trdxjtvreirdjjwrihr vjh
Orfxjutjw,rpcerqox.reii—urevohsr voav,rohwjjw,rohrevjrpjsohhohs,rOrwow
hiertirqcavrutrevoh.rid,ruhwr voav,r vjhroerauqjroheirqzrevicsvet,r ut
njuxxzruhrusnjjupxjrtcnfnotj,rdinrhi rOrtjercfrqzrwuonz,ruhwrvuw
tiqjeoqjtrursuxxihrinre iridrqox.rohrurwuzkrrUhwrutrHuecnj,r virsoyjt
tcffxojtridrdiiwreirjyjnzranjuecnj,rwoaeuejtrjyjhrhuecnuxxzrvi reirqu.j
ctjridroe,rtirO,revuervuwrhjyjnrqox.jwrurai ,rqcavrxjttrursiue,rinrtjjh
pceejnrinravjjtjrquwjrihxzr vjhrOr utrurpiz,rudejnrursnjuerquhzrjttuzt
uhwrqotaunnousjt,rquwjrpievrpceejnruhwravjjtjruerxute,ruxtirtuxer(evicsv
Ordichwroerfunexzrquwjreirqzrvuhwrpzrevjrvjueridrevjrtchrcfihrtiqjridrevj
nia.tridrevjrtju),ruhwrhjyjnr uhejwroerudejn unwtkrrVi rqjnaodcxxzrauh
icnrAnjueinrenjuerVotranjuecnjt,rjyjhrohrevitjraihwoeoihtrohr voavrevjz
tjjqjwreirpjriyjn vjxqjwrohrwjtencaeoih!rrVi rauhrVjrt jjejhrevj
poeejnjterfniyowjhajt,ruhwrsoyjrctrauctjreirfnuotjrVoqrdinrwchsjihtruhw
fnotiht!rr vuerureupxjr utrvjnjrtfnjuwrdinrqjrohrevjr oxwjnhjtt,r vjnjrO
tu rhievohsruerdonterpcereirfjnotvrdinrvchsjn!




AVUFEJNrMO—DOHWTrFNOHErIDrQUH’TrDIIErIHrEVJrTUHW


Oer icxwrvuyjrquwjrurTeioartqoxjreirvuyjrtjjhrqjruhwrqzrxoeexjrduqoxzrtoe
wi hreirwohhjnkrrEvjnjr utrqzrqubjtezrevjrfnohajruhwrxinwridrevjr vixj
otxuhw;rOrvuwrevjrxoyjtridruxxrqzrtcpbjaetruerqzruptixcejraiqquhw;rO
aicxwrvuhs,rwnu ,rsoyjrxopjnez,ruhwreu.jroeru uz,ruhwrhirnjpjxtruqihsruxx
qzrtcpbjaetkrrEvjh,reirtjjrvi rxo.jrur.ohsrOrwohjw,reii,ruxxruxihj,
ueejhwjwrpzrqzrtjnyuhet!rrFixx,rutrodrvjrvuwrpjjhrqzrduyicnoej,r utrevj
ihxzrfjntihrfjnqoeejwreireux.reirqjkrrQzrwis,r vir utrhi rsni hrixwruhw
anugz,ruhwrvuwrdichwrhirtfjaojtreirqcxeofxzrvotr.ohwrcfih,rtuerux uztrue
qzrnosvervuhw;ruhwre irauet,rihjrihrihjrtowjridrevjreupxjruhwrihjrihrevj
ievjn,rjmfjaeohsrhi ruhwrevjhrurpoerdniqrqzrvuhw,rutrurqun.ridrjtfjaoux
duyicnk

Pcerevjtjr jnjrhierevjre irauetr voavrOrpnicsverihrtvinjruerdonte,rdin
evjzr jnjrpievridrevjqrwjuw,ruhwrvuwrpjjhrohejnnjwrhjunrqzrvupoeueoihrpz
qzri hrvuhw;rpcerihjridrevjqrvuyohsrqcxeofxojwrpzrOr.hi rhier vuer.ohwrid
anjuecnj,revjtjr jnjre ir voavrOrvuwrfnjtjnyjwreuqj;r vjnjutrevjrnjternuh
 oxwrohrevjr iiwt,ruhwrpjauqjrohwjjwrenicpxjtiqjreirqjruerxute,rdinrevjz
 icxwridejhraiqjroheirqzrvictj,ruhwrfxchwjnrqjreii,reoxxruerxuterOr ut
ipxosjwreirtviierevjq,ruhwrwowr.oxxrursnjuerquhz;ruerxjhsevrevjzrxjderqjk
 oevrevotrueejhwuhajruhwrohrevotrfxjheodcxrquhhjnrOrxoyjw;rhjoevjnraicxw
Orpjrtuowreir uheruhzevohsrpcertiaojez;ruhwridrevue,rtiqjreoqjrudejn
evot,rOr utrxo.jxzreirvuyjreiirqcavk

Or utrtiqjevohsroqfueojhe,rutrOrvuyjriptjnyjw,reirvuyjrevjrctjridrqz
piue,revicsvryjnzrxiuevreirnchruhzrqinjrvugunwt;ruhwrevjnjdinjrtiqjeoqjt
Ortueraihenoyohsr uztreirsjervjnrupicerevjrotxuhw,ruhwruerievjnreoqjtrO
tuerqztjxdrwi hraihejhejwrjhicsvr oevicervjnkrrPcerOrvuwrurtenuhsj
chjutohjttrohrqzrqohwreirsirwi hreirevjrfioheridrevjrotxuhwr vjnj,rutrO
vuyjrtuowrohrqzrxuternuqpxj,rOr jhercfrevjrvoxxreirtjjrvi revjrtvinjrxuz,
uhwrvi revjracnnjhertje,revuerOrqosvertjjr vuerOrvuwreirwi:revot
ohaxohueoihrohanjutjwrcfihrqjrjyjnzrwuz,ruhwruerxjhsevrOrnjtixyjwrei
enuyjxrevoevjnrpzrxuhw,rdixxi ohsrevjrjwsjridrevjrtvinjkrrOrwowrti;rpce
vuwruhzrihjrohrJhsxuhwrqjertcavrurquhrutrOr ut,roerqcterjoevjnrvuyj
dnosvejhjwrvoq,rinrnuotjwrursnjuerwjuxridrxucsvejn;ruhwrutrOrdnjlcjhexz
teiiwrteoxxreirxii.ruerqztjxd,rOraicxwrhierpcertqoxjruerevjrhieoihridrqz
enuyjxxohsrevnicsvrZin.tvonjr oevrtcavruhrjlcofusj,ruhwrohrtcavrurwnjttk
Pjrfxjutjwreireu.jrurt.jeavridrqzrdoscnj,rutrdixxi tk

Orvuwrursnjuervosvrtvufjxjttrauf,rquwjridrursiue’trt.oh,r oevrurdxuf
vuhsohsrwi hrpjvohw,rutr jxxreir.jjfrevjrtchrdniqrqjrutreirtviierevjrnuoh
iddrdniqrnchhohsroheirqzrhja.,rhievohsrpjohsrtirvcnedcxrohrevjtjraxoquejt
utrevjrnuohrcfihrevjrdxjtvrchwjnrevjraxievjtk

Orvuwrurtvinerbua.jeridrsiue’trt.oh,revjrt.onetraiqohsrwi hreirupicerevj
qowwxjridrevjrevosvt,ruhwrurfuonridrifjh-.hjjwrpnjjavjtridrevjrtuqj;revj
pnjjavjtr jnjrquwjridrevjrt.ohridruhrixwrvj-siue,r vitjrvuonrvchsrwi h
tcavrurxjhsevrihrjoevjnrtowjrevue,rxo.jrfuheuxiiht,roernjuavjwreirevj
qowwxjridrqzrxjst;rteia.ohstruhwrtvijtrOrvuwrhihj,rpcervuwrquwjrqjrurfuon
idrtiqjevohst,rOrtaunajr.hj r vuereirauxxrevjq,rxo.jrpct.oht,reirdxuf
iyjnrqzrxjst,ruhwrxuajrihrjoevjnrtowjrxo.jrtfueejnwutvjt,rpceridrurqite
punpunictrtvufj,rutrohwjjwr jnjruxxrevjrnjteridrqzraxievjtk

Orvuwrihrurpniuwrpjxeridrsiue’trt.ohrwnojw,r voavrOrwnj reisjevjnr oev
e irevihstridrevjrtuqjrohtejuwridrpca.xjt,ruhwrohrur.ohwridrurdnisrih
joevjnrtowjridrevot,rohtejuwridrurt inwruhwrwussjn,rvchsrurxoeexjrtu ruhw
urvueavje,rihjrihrihjrtowjruhwrihjrihrevjrievjnkrrOrvuwruhievjnrpjxerhie
tirpniuw,ruhwrdutejhjwrohrevjrtuqjrquhhjn,r voavrvchsriyjnrqzrtvicxwjn,
uhwruerevjrjhwridroe,rchwjnrqzrxjderunq,rvchsre irficavjt,rpievrquwjrid
siue’trt.ohreii,rohrihjridr voavrvchsrqzrfi wjn,rohrevjrievjnrqzrtviek
Uerqzrpua.rOraunnojwrqzrput.je,ruhwrihrqzrtvicxwjnrqzrsch,ruhwriyjnrqz
vjuwrursnjueraxcqtz,rcsxz,rsiue’t-t.ohrcqpnjxxu,rpcer voav,rudejnruxx,
 utrevjrqiterhjajttunzrevohsrOrvuwrupicerqjrhjmereirqzrschkrrUtrdinrqz
duaj,revjraixicnridroer utrnjuxxzrhiertirqcxueei-xo.jrutrihjrqosverjmfjae
dniqrurquhrhierueruxxraunjdcxridroe,ruhwrxoyohsr oevohrhohjrinrejh
wjsnjjtridrevjrjlcohimkrrQzrpjunwrOrvuwrihajrtcddjnjwreirsni reoxxroer ut
upicerurlcunejnridrurzunwrxihs;rpcerutrOrvuwrpievrtaottintruhwrnugint
tcddoaojhe,rOrvuwraceroerfnjeezrtvine,rjmajfer vuersnj rihrqzrcffjnrxof,
 voavrOrvuwrenoqqjwroheirurxunsjrfuonridrQuviqjeuhr vot.jnt,rtcavrutrO
vuwrtjjhr inhrpzrtiqjrEcn.truerTuxxjj,rdinrevjrQiintrwowrhier junrtcav,
evicsvrevjrEcn.trwow;ridrevjtjrqicteuavoit,rinr vot.jnt,rOr oxxrhiertuz
evjzr jnjrxihsrjhicsvreirvuhsrqzrvuercfihrevjq,rpcerevjzr jnjridrurxjhsev
uhwrtvufjrqihtenictrjhicsv,ruhwrtcavrutrohrJhsxuhwr icxwrvuyjrfuttjwrdin
dnosvedcxk

Pceruxxrevotrotrpz-evj-pzj;rdinrutreirqzrdoscnj,rOrvuwrtirdj reiriptjnyj
qjrevueroer utridrhirquhhjnridraihtjlcjhaj,rtirOrtuzrhirqinjridrevuekrrOh
evotr.ohwridrwnjttrOr jherqzrhj rbicnhjz,ruhwr utricerdoyjrinrtomrwuztk
Orenuyjxxjwrdonteruxihsrevjrtju-tvinj,rwonjaexzreirevjrfxuajr vjnjrO
donterpnicsverqzrpiuereiruhruhavinreirsjercfihrevjrnia.t;ruhwrvuyohsrhi
piuerhi reireu.jraunjrid,rOr jheriyjnrevjrxuhwrurhjunjnr uzreirevjrtuqj
vjosverevuerOr utrcfihrpjdinj,r vjh,rxii.ohsrdin unwreirevjrfiohetridrevj
nia.tr voavrxuzrice,ruhwr voavrOr utripxosjwreirwicpxjr oevrqzrpiue,rut
otrtuowrupiyj,rOr utrtcnfnotjwreirtjjrevjrtjuruxxrtqiievruhwrlcoje—hi
noffxohs,rhirqieoih,rhiracnnjhe,ruhzrqinjrevjnjrevuhrohrievjnrfxuajtkrrO
 utruerurtenuhsjrxittreirchwjnteuhwrevot,ruhwrnjtixyjwreirtfjhwrtiqjreoqj
ohrevjriptjnyohsroe,reirtjjrodrhievohsrdniqrevjrtjetridrevjreowjrvuw
iaautoihjwroe;rpcerOr utrfnjtjhexzraihyohajwrvi roer ut—yogkrevuerevj
eowjridrjpprtjeeohsrdniqrevjr jte,ruhwrbiohohsr oevrevjracnnjheridr uejnt
dniqrtiqjrsnjuernoyjnrihrevjrtvinj,rqcterpjrevjriaautoihridrevotracnnjhe,
uhwrevue,ruaainwohsrutrevjr ohwrpxj rqinjrdinaopxzrdniqrevjr jterinrdniq
evjrhinev,revotracnnjherauqjrhjunjnrinr jherdunevjnrdniqrevjrtvinj;rdin,
 uoeohsrevjnjupicetreoxxrjyjhohs,rOr jhercfreirevjrnia.rusuoh,ruhwrevjh
evjreowjridrjpprpjohsrquwj,rOrfxuohxzrtu revjracnnjherusuohrutrpjdinj,
ihxzrevueroernuhrdunevjnridd,rpjohsrhjunrvuxdrurxjuscjrdniqrevjrtvinj,
 vjnjutrohrqzrautjroertjeraxitjrcfihrevjrtvinj,ruhwrvcnnojwrqjruhwrqz
auhijruxihsr oevroe,r voavrueruhievjnreoqjroer icxwrhiervuyjrwihjk

EvotriptjnyueoihraihyohajwrqjrevuerOrvuwrhievohsreirwirpcereiriptjnyjrevj
jppohsruhwrevjrdxi ohsridrevjreowj,ruhwrOrqosveryjnzrjutoxzrpnohsrqzrpiue
upicerevjrotxuhwrusuoh;rpcer vjhrOrpjsuhreirevoh.ridrfceeohsroeroh
fnuaeoaj,rOrvuwrtcavrejnninrcfihrqzrtfonoetruerevjrnjqjqpnuhajridrevj
wuhsjnrOrvuwrpjjhroh,revuerOraicxwrhierevoh.ridroerusuohr oevruhz
fueojhaj,rpce,rihrevjraihenunz,rOreii.rcfruhievjnrnjtixceoih,r voavr ut
qinjrtudj,revicsvrqinjrxupinoict—uhwrevotr ut,revuerOr icxwrpcoxw,rin
nuevjnrqu.j,rqjruhievjnrfjnouscurinrauhij,ruhwrtirvuyjrihjrdinrihjrtowj
idrevjrotxuhw,ruhwrihjrdinrevjrievjnk

Zicrunjreirchwjnteuhwrevuerhi rOrvuw,rutrOrquzrauxxroe,re irfxuheueoiht
ohrevjrotxuhw—ihjrqzrxoeexjrdineodoaueoihrinrejhe,r oevrevjr uxxrupice
oe,rchwjnrevjrnia.,r oevrevjrauyjrpjvohwrqj,r voavrpzrevotreoqjrOrvuw
jhxunsjwroheirtjyjnuxrufuneqjhetrinrauyjt,rihjr oevohruhievjnkrrIhjrid
evjtj,r voavr utrevjrwnojteruhwrxunsjte,ruhwrvuwrurwiinricerpjzihwrqz
 uxxrinrdineodoaueoih—evuerotreirtuz,rpjzihwr vjnjrqzr uxxrbiohjwreirevj
nia.— utruxxrdoxxjwrcfr oevrevjrxunsjrjunevjhrfietridr voavrOrvuyjrsoyjh
uhruaaiche,ruhwr oevrdicnejjhrinrdodejjhrsnjuerput.jet,r voavr icxwrvixw
doyjrinrtomrpctvjxtrjuav,r vjnjrOrxuowrcfrqzrteinjtridrfniyotoiht,
jtfjaouxxzrqzrainh,rtiqjrohrevjrjun,raceriddrtvinerdniqrevjrtenu ,ruhw
evjrievjnrncppjwricer oevrqzrvuhwk

Utrdinrqzr uxx,rquwj,rutrpjdinj,r oevrxihsrteu.jtrinrfoxjt,revitjrfoxjt
snj ruxxrxo.jrenjjt,ruhwr jnjrpzrevotreoqjrsni hrtirpos,ruhwrtfnjuwrti
yjnzrqcav,revuerevjnjr utrhierevjrxjuteruffjunuhaj,reiruhzrihj’tryoj ,rid
uhzrvupoeueoihrpjvohwrevjqk

Hjunrevotrw jxxohsridrqohj,rpcerurxoeexjrdunevjnr oevohrevjrxuhw,ruhw
cfihrxi jnrsnichw,rxuzrqzre irfojajtridrainhrxuhw,r voavrOr.jferwcxz
acxeoyuejwruhwrti jw,ruhwr voavrwcxzrzojxwjwrqjrevjonrvunyjterohroet
tjutih;ruhwr vjhjyjnrOrvuwriaautoihrdinrqinjrainh,rOrvuwrqinjrxuhw
uwbiohohsrutrdoerutrevuek

Pjtowjtrevot,rOrvuwrqzraichenzrtjue,ruhwrOrvuwrhi rureixjnupxjrfxuheueoih
evjnjruxti;rdin,rdonte,rOrvuwrqzrxoeexjrpi jn,rutrOrauxxjwroe,r voavrO
.jferohrnjfuon—evuerotreirtuz,rOr.jferevjrvjwsjr voavrjhaonaxjwroeroh
aihteuhexzrdoeejwrcfreiroetrctcuxrvjosve,revjrxuwwjnrteuhwohsrux uztroh
evjrohtowjkrrOr.jferevjrenjjt,r voavruerdonter jnjrhirqinjrevuhrteu.jt,
pcer jnjrhi rsni hryjnzrdonqruhwreuxx,rux uztrace,rtirevuerevjzrqosve
tfnjuwruhwrsni revoa.ruhwr oxw,ruhwrqu.jrevjrqinjrusnjjupxjrtvuwj,r voav
evjzrwowrjddjaecuxxzreirqzrqohwkrrOhrevjrqowwxjridrevotrOrvuwrqzrejhe
ux uztrteuhwohs,rpjohsrurfojajridrurtuoxrtfnjuwriyjnrfixjt,rtjercfrdin
evuerfcnfitj,ruhwr voavrhjyjnr uhejwruhzrnjfuonrinrnjhj ohs;ruhwrchwjn
evotrOrvuwrquwjrqjrurtlcuprinraicavr oevrevjrt.ohtridrevjranjuecnjtrOrvuw
.oxxjw,ruhwr oevrievjnrtiderevohst,ruhwrurpxuh.jerxuowrihrevjq,rtcavrut
pjxihsjwreiricnrtju-pjwwohs,r voavrOrvuwrtuyjw;ruhwrursnjuer ueav-aiuerei
aiyjnrqjkrrUhwrvjnj,r vjhjyjnrOrvuwriaautoihreirpjruptjherdniqrqzravojd
tjue,rOreii.rcfrqzraichenzrvupoeueoihk

UwbiohohsreirevotrOrvuwrqzrjhaxitcnjtrdinrqzraueexj,revuerotreirtuzrqz
siuet,ruhwrOrvuwreu.jhruhrohaihajoyupxjrwjuxridrfuohtreirdjhajruhw
jhaxitjrevotrsnichwkrrOr utrtiruhmoictreirtjjroer.jferjheonj,rxjterevj
siuetrtvicxwrpnju.revnicsv,revuerOrhjyjnrxjderiddreoxx,r oevrohdohoej
xupicn,rOrvuwrteca.revjricetowjridrevjrvjwsjrtirdcxxridrtquxxrteu.jt,ruhw
tirhjunreirihjruhievjn,revueroer utrnuevjnrurfuxjrevuhrurvjwsj,ruhwrevjnj
 utrtaunajrniiqreirfcerurvuhwrevnicsvrpje jjhrevjq;r voavrudejn unwt,
 vjhrevitjrteu.jtrsnj ,rutrevjzruxxrwowrohrevjrhjmernuohzrtjutih,rquwj
evjrjhaxitcnjrtenihsrxo.jrur uxx,rohwjjwrtenihsjnrevuhruhzr uxxk

Evotr oxxrejteodzrdinrqjrevuerOr utrhierowxj,ruhwrevuerOrtfunjwrhirfuoht
eirpnohsreirfuttr vuejyjnruffjunjwrhjajttunzrdinrqzraiqdineupxjrtcffine,
dinrOraihtowjnjwrevjr.jjfohsrcfrurpnjjwridreuqjranjuecnjtrevctruerqzrvuhw
 icxwrpjrurxoyohsrqusugohjridrdxjtv,rqox.,rpceejn,ruhwravjjtjrdinrqjrut
xihsrutrOrxoyjwrohrevjrfxuaj,rodroer jnjreirpjrdinezrzjunt;ruhwrevue
.jjfohsrevjqrohrqzrnjuavrwjfjhwjwrjheonjxzrcfihrqzrfjndjaeohsrqz
jhaxitcnjtreirtcavrurwjsnjjrevuerOrqosverpjrtcnjridr.jjfohsrevjq
eisjevjn;r voavrpzrevotrqjeviw,rohwjjw,rOrtirjddjaecuxxzrtjacnjw,revue
 vjhrevjtjrxoeexjrteu.jtrpjsuhreirsni ,rOrvuwrfxuhejwrevjqrtiryjnzrevoa.
evuerOr utrdinajwreirfcxxrtiqjridrevjqrcfrusuohk

OhrevotrfxuajruxtirOrvuwrqzrsnufjtrsni ohs,r voavrOrfnohaofuxxzrwjfjhwjw
ihrdinrqzr ohejnrteinjridrnuotoht,ruhwr voavrOrhjyjnrduoxjwreirfnjtjnyj
yjnzraunjdcxxz,rutrevjrpjteruhwrqiterusnjjupxjrwuohezridrqzr vixjrwoje;
uhwrohwjjwrevjzr jnjrhierihxzrusnjjupxj,rpcerqjwoaohux,r vixjtiqj,
hicnotvohs,ruhwrnjdnjtvohsreirevjrxuterwjsnjjk

Utrevotr utruxtirupicervuxd- uzrpje jjhrqzrievjnrvupoeueoihruhwrevjrfxuaj
 vjnjrOrvuwrxuowrcfrqzrpiue,rOrsjhjnuxxzrteuzjwruhwrxuzrvjnjrohrqzr uz
evoevjn,rdinrOrctjwrdnjlcjhexzreiryotoerqzrpiue;ruhwrOr.jferuxxrevohst
upicerinrpjxihsohsreirvjnrohryjnzrsiiwrinwjnkrrTiqjeoqjtrOr jhericeroh
vjnreirwoyjnerqztjxd,rpcerhirqinjrvugunwictryizusjtr icxwrOrsi,rtaunajxz
jyjnrupiyjrurteihj’trauterinre irdniqrevjrtvinj,rOr utrtiruffnjvjhtoyjrid
pjohsrvcnnojwriceridrqzr.hi xjwsjrusuohrpzrevjracnnjhetrinr ohwt,rinruhz
ievjnruaaowjhekrrPcerhi rOraiqjreirurhj rtajhjridrqzrxodjk

Oervuffjhjwrihjrwuz,rupicerhiih,rsiohsrei unwtrqzrpiue,rOr utrjmajjwohsxz
tcnfnotjwr oevrevjrfnoheridrurquh’trhu.jwrdiierihrevjrtvinj,r voavr ut
yjnzrfxuohreirpjrtjjhrihrevjrtuhwkrrOrteiiwrxo.jrihjrevchwjntenca.,rinrut
odrOrvuwrtjjhruhruffunoeoihkrrOrxotejhjw,rOrxii.jwrnichwrqj,rpcerOraicxw
vjunrhievohs,rhinrtjjruhzevohs;rOr jhercfreirurnotohsrsnichwreirxii.
dunevjn;rOr jhercfrevjrtvinjruhwrwi hrevjrtvinj,rpceroer utruxxrihj;rO
aicxwrtjjrhirievjnroqfnjttoihrpcerevuerihjkrrOr jhereiroerusuohreirtjjrod
evjnjr jnjruhzrqinj,ruhwreiriptjnyjrodroerqosverhierpjrqzrduhaz;rpce
evjnjr utrhirniiqrdinrevue,rdinrevjnjr utrjmuaexzrevjrfnoheridru
diie—eijt,rvjjx,ruhwrjyjnzrfuneridrurdiiekrrVi roerauqjrevoevjnrOr.hj 
hie,rhinraicxwrOrohrevjrxjuteroqusohj;rpcerudejnrohhcqjnupxjrdxceejnohs
evicsvet,rxo.jrurquhrfjndjaexzraihdctjwruhwriceridrqztjxd,rOrauqjrviqjrei
qzrdineodoaueoih,rhierdjjxohs,rutr jrtuz,revjrsnichwrOr jherih,rpce
ejnnodojwreirevjrxuterwjsnjj,rxii.ohsrpjvohwrqjruerjyjnzre irinrevnjj
tejft,rqoteu.ohsrjyjnzrpctvruhwrenjj,ruhwrduhazohsrjyjnzrtecqfrueru
woteuhajreirpjrurquhkrrHinrotroerfittopxjreirwjtanopjrvi rquhzryunoict
tvufjtrqzruddnosvejwroqusohueoihrnjfnjtjhejwrevohstreirqjroh,rvi rquhz
 oxwrowjutr jnjrdichwrjyjnzrqiqjherohrqzrduhaz,ruhwr vuertenuhsj,
chuaaicheupxjr voqtojtrauqjroheirqzrevicsvetrpzrevjr uzk

 vjhrOrauqjreirqzrautexjr(dinrtirOrevoh.rOrauxxjwroerjyjnrudejnrevot),rO
dxjwroheiroerxo.jrihjrfcntcjwkrr vjevjnrOr jheriyjnrpzrevjrxuwwjn,rut
donteraihenoyjw,rinr jherohruerevjrvixjrohrevjrnia.,r voavrOrvuwrauxxjwru
wiin,rOrauhhiernjqjqpjn;rhi,rhinraicxwrOrnjqjqpjnrevjrhjmerqinhohs,rdin
hjyjnrdnosvejhjwrvunjrdxjwreiraiyjn,rinrdimreirjunev,r oevrqinjrejnninrid
qohwrevuhrOreirevotrnjenjuek

Ortxjferhihjrevuerhosve;revjrdunevjnrOr utrdniqrevjriaautoihridrqz
dnosve,revjrsnjuejnrqzruffnjvjhtoihtr jnj,r voavrotrtiqjevohsraihenunzrei
evjrhuecnjridrtcavrevohst,ruhwrjtfjaouxxzreirevjrctcuxrfnuaeoajridruxx
anjuecnjtrohrdjun;rpcerOr utrtirjqpunnuttjwr oevrqzri hrdnosvedcxrowjut
idrevjrevohs,revuerOrdinqjwrhievohsrpcerwotquxroqusohueoihtreirqztjxd,
jyjhrevicsvrOr utrhi rursnjuer uzriddkrrTiqjeoqjtrOrduhaojwroerqcterpj
evjrwjyox,ruhwrnjutihrbiohjwrohr oevrqjrohrevotrtcffitoeoih,rdinrvi 
tvicxwruhzrievjnrevohsrohrvcquhrtvufjraiqjroheirevjrfxuaj?rr vjnjr utrevj
yjttjxrevuerpnicsverevjq?rr vuerqun.tr jnjrevjnjridruhzrievjnrdiietejf?
Uhwrvi r utroerfittopxjrurquhrtvicxwraiqjrevjnj?rrPcerevjh,reirevoh.revue
Tueuhrtvicxwreu.jrvcquhrtvufjrcfihrvoqrohrtcavrurfxuaj,r vjnjrevjnjraicxw
pjrhirquhhjnridriaautoihrdinroe,rpcereirxjuyjrevjrfnoheridrvotrdiie
pjvohwrvoq,ruhwrevuerjyjhrdinrhirfcnfitjreii,rdinrvjraicxwrhierpjrtcnjrO
tvicxwrtjjroe—evotr utruhruqctjqjherevjrievjnr uzkrrOraihtowjnjwrevuerevj
wjyoxrqosvervuyjrdichwricerupchwuhajridrievjnr uztreirvuyjrejnnodojwrqj
evuhrevotridrevjrtohsxjrfnoheridrurdiie;revuerutrOrxoyjwrlcoejrihrevj
ievjnrtowjridrevjrotxuhw,rvjr icxwrhjyjnrvuyjrpjjhrtirtoqfxjrutreirxjuyj
urqun.rohrurfxuajr vjnjroer utrejhrevictuhwreirihjr vjevjnrOrtvicxwrjyjn
tjjroerinrhie,ruhwrohrevjrtuhwreii,r voavrevjrdontertcnsjridrevjrtju,
cfihrurvosvr ohw,r icxwrvuyjrwjduajwrjheonjxzkrrUxxrevotrtjjqjw
ohaihtotejher oevrevjrevohsroetjxdruhwr oevruxxrevjrhieoihtr jrctcuxxz
jhejneuohridrevjrtcpexjezridrevjrwjyoxk

Upchwuhajridrtcavrevohstrutrevjtjruttotejwreirunscjrqjriceridruxx
uffnjvjhtoihtridroetrpjohsrevjrwjyox;ruhwrOrfnjtjhexzraihaxcwjwrevjhrevue
oerqcterpjrtiqjrqinjrwuhsjnictranjuecnj—yogkrevueroerqcterpjrtiqjridrevj
tuyusjtridrevjrquohxuhwriffitoejr virvuwr uhwjnjwricereirtjurohrevjon
auhijt,ruhwrjoevjnrwnoyjhrpzrevjracnnjhetrinrpzraihenunzr ohwt,rvuwrquwj
evjrotxuhw,ruhwrvuwrpjjhrihrtvinj,rpcer jnjrsihjru uzrusuohreirtju;rpjohs
utrxiuev,rfjnvuft,reirvuyjrteuzjwrohrevotrwjtixuejrotxuhwrutrOr icxwrvuyj
pjjhreirvuyjrvuwrevjqk

 voxjrevjtjrnjdxjaeoihtr jnjrnixxohsrohrqzrqohw,rOr utryjnzrevuh.dcxroh
qzrevicsvetrevuerOr utrtirvuffzrutrhiereirpjrevjnjupicetruerevuereoqj,rin
evuerevjzrwowrhiertjjrqzrpiue,rpzr voavrevjzr icxwrvuyjraihaxcwjwrevue
tiqjrohvupoeuhetrvuwrpjjhrohrevjrfxuaj,ruhwrfjnvuftrvuyjrtjunavjwrdunevjn
dinrqjkrrEvjhrejnnopxjrevicsvetrnua.jwrqzroqusohueoihrupicerevjonrvuyohs
dichwricerqzrpiue,ruhwrevuerevjnjr jnjrfjifxjrvjnj;ruhwrevue,rodrti,rO
tvicxwrajneuohxzrvuyjrevjqraiqjrusuohrohrsnjuejnrhcqpjntruhwrwjyicnrqj;
evuerodroertvicxwrvuffjhrevuerevjzrtvicxwrhierdohwrqj,rzjerevjzr icxw
dohwrqzrjhaxitcnj,rwjtenizruxxrqzrainh,ruhwraunnzru uzruxxrqzrdxia.rid
euqjrsiuet,ruhwrOrtvicxwrfjnotvruerxuterdinrqjnjr uhek

Evctrqzrdjunrpuhotvjwruxxrqzrnjxosoictrvifj,ruxxrevuerdinqjnraihdowjhaj
ohrSiw,r voavr utrdichwjwrcfihrtcavr ihwjndcxrjmfjnojhajrutrOrvuwrvuwrid
Votrsiiwhjtt;rutrodrVjrevuervuwrdjwrqjrpzrqonuaxjrvoevjneiraicxwrhie
fnjtjnyj,rpzrVotrfi jn,revjrfniyotoihr voavrVjrvuwrquwjrdinrqjrpzrVot
siiwhjttkrrOrnjfniuavjwrqztjxdr oevrqzrxugohjtt,revuer icxwrhierti ruhz
qinjrainhrihjrzjunrevuhr icxwrbctertjnyjrqjreoxxrevjrhjmertjutih,rutrod
hiruaaowjheraicxwrohejnyjhjreirfnjyjherqzrjhbizohsrevjranifrevuer utrcfih
evjrsnichw;ruhwrevotrOrevicsvertirbcterurnjfniid,revuerOrnjtixyjwrdinrevj
dcecnjreirvuyjre irinrevnjjrzjunt’rainhrpjdinjvuhw;rtirevue,r vuejyjn
qosveraiqj,rOrqosverhierfjnotvrdinr uheridrpnjuwk

Vi rtenuhsjruravjlcjn- in.ridrFniyowjhajrotrevjrxodjridrquh!ruhwrpzr vue
tjanjerwoddjnjhertfnohstrunjrevjruddjaeoihtrvcnnojwrupice,rutrwoddjnjhe
aonacqteuhajtrfnjtjhe!rrEi-wuzr jrxiyjr vuerei-qinni r jrvuej;rei-wuzr j
tjj.r vuerei-qinni r jrtvch;rei-wuzr jrwjtonjr vuerei-qinni r jrdjun,
huz,rjyjhrenjqpxjruerevjruffnjvjhtoihtridkrrEvotr utrjmjqfxodojwrohrqj,
uerevotreoqj,rohrevjrqiterxoyjxzrquhhjnroqusohupxj;rdinrO,r vitjrihxz
uddxoaeoihr utrevuerOrtjjqjwrpuhotvjwrdniqrvcquhrtiaojez,revuerOr ut
uxihj,raonacqtanopjwrpzrevjrpichwxjttriajuh,raceriddrdniqrquh.ohw,ruhw
aihwjqhjwreir vuerOrauxxrtoxjherxodj;revuerOr utrutrihjr viqrVjuyjh
evicsverhier inevzreirpjrhcqpjnjwruqihsrevjrxoyohs,rinreiruffjunruqihs
evjrnjteridrVotranjuecnjt;revuereirvuyjrtjjhrihjridrqzri hrtfjaojtr icxw
vuyjrtjjqjwreirqjrurnuotohsrqjrdniqrwjuevreirxodj,ruhwrevjrsnjuejte
pxjttohsrevuerVjuyjhroetjxd,rhjmereirevjrtcfnjqjrpxjttohsridrtuxyueoih,
aicxwrpjtei ;rOrtuz,revuerOrtvicxwrhi renjqpxjruerevjryjnzruffnjvjhtoiht
idrtjjohsrurquh,ruhwr utrnjuwzreirtoh.roheirevjrsnichwruerpcerevjrtvuwi 
inrtoxjheruffjunuhajridrurquhrvuyohsrtjervotrdiierohrevjrotxuhwk

Tcavrotrevjrchjyjhrteuejridrvcquhrxodj;ruhwroeruddinwjwrqjrursnjuerquhz
acnoictrtfjacxueoihtrudejn unwt,r vjhrOrvuwrurxoeexjrnjaiyjnjwrqzrdonte
tcnfnotjkrrOraihtowjnjwrevuerevotr utrevjrteueoihridrxodjrevjrohdohoejxz
 otjruhwrsiiwrfniyowjhajridrSiwrvuwrwjejnqohjwrdinrqj;revuerutrOraicxw
hierdinjtjjr vuerevjrjhwtridrWoyohjr otwiqrqosverpjrohruxxrevot,rtirOr ut
hiereirwotfcejrVotrtiyjnjoshez;r vi,rutrOr utrVotranjuecnj,rvuwruh
chwicpejwrnosve,rpzranjueoih,reirsiyjnhruhwrwotfitjridrqjruptixcejxzrut
Vjrevicsverdoe;ruhwr vi,rutrOr utruranjuecnjrevuervuwriddjhwjwrVoq,rvuw
xo.j otjrurbcwoaouxrnosvereiraihwjqhrqjreir vuerfchotvqjherVjrevicsve
doe;ruhwrevueroer utrqzrfunereirtcpqoereirpjunrVotrohwoshueoih,rpjauctjrO
vuwrtohhjwrusuohterVoqkrrOrevjhrnjdxjaejw,revuerutrSiw,r vir utrhierihxz
nosvejictrpceriqhofiejhe,rvuwrevicsverdoerevctreirfchotvruhwruddxoaerqj,
tirVjr utrupxjreirwjxoyjnrqj:revuerodrVjrwowrhierevoh.rdoereirwirti,roe
 utrqzrchlcjteoihjwrwcezreirnjtoshrqztjxdruptixcejxzruhwrjheonjxzreirVot
 oxx;ruhw,rihrevjrievjnrvuhw,roer utrqzrwcezruxtireirvifjrohrVoq,rfnuzrei
Voq,ruhwrlcojexzreirueejhwreirevjrwoaeuejtruhwrwonjaeoihtridrVotrwuoxz
fniyowjhajk

Evjtjrevicsvetreii.rqjrcfrquhzrvicnt,rwuzt,rhuz,rOrquzrtuzr jj.truhw
qihevt:ruhwrihjrfuneoacxunrjddjaeridrqzraisoeueoihtrihrevotriaautoihrO
auhhieriqoekrrIhjrqinhohsrjunxz,rxzohsrohrqzrpjw,ruhwrdoxxjwr oev
evicsvetrupicerqzrwuhsjnrdniqrevjruffjunuhajtridrtuyusjt,rOrdichwroe
wotaiqfitjwrqjryjnzrqcav;rcfihr voavrevjtjr inwtridrevjrTanofecnjrauqj
oheirqzrevicsvet,r“AuxxrcfihrQjrohrevjrwuzridrenicpxj,ruhwrOr oxxrwjxoyjn
evjj,ruhwrevicrtvuxersxinodzrQjk”rrCfihrevot,rnotohsravjjndcxxzriceridrqz
pjw,rqzrvjuner utrhierihxzraiqdinejw,rpcerOr utrscowjwruhwrjhaicnusjwrei
fnuzrjunhjtexzreirSiwrdinrwjxoyjnuhaj:r vjhrOrvuwrwihjrfnuzohsrOreii.rcf
qzrPopxj,ruhwrifjhohsroereirnjuw,revjrdonter inwtrevuerfnjtjhejwreirqj
 jnj,r“ uoerihrevjrXinw,ruhwrpjridrsiiwravjjn,ruhwrVjrtvuxxrtenjhsevjh
evzrvjune;r uoe,rOrtuz,rihrevjrXinwk”rrOerotroqfittopxjreirjmfnjttrevj
aiqdinerevotrsuyjrqjkrrOhruht jn,rOrevuh.dcxxzrxuowrwi hrevjrpii.,ruhw
 utrhirqinjrtuw,ruerxjuterihrevueriaautoihk

Ohrevjrqowwxjridrevjtjraisoeueoiht,ruffnjvjhtoiht,ruhwrnjdxjaeoiht,roe
auqjroheirqzrevicsvetrihjrwuzrevueruxxrevotrqosverpjrurqjnjravoqjnuridrqz
i h,ruhwrevuerevotrdiierqosverpjrevjrfnoheridrqzri hrdiie,r vjhrOrauqjrih
tvinjrdniqrqzrpiue:revotravjjnjwrqjrcfrurxoeexj,reii,ruhwrOrpjsuhrei
fjntcuwjrqztjxdroer utruxxrurwjxctoih;revueroer utrhievohsrjxtjrpcerqz
i hrdiie;ruhwr vzrqosverOrhieraiqjrevuer uzrdniqrevjrpiue,rutr jxxrutrO
 utrsiohsrevuer uzreirevjrpiue?rrUsuoh,rOraihtowjnjwruxtirevuerOraicxwrpz
hirqjuhtrejxxrdinrajneuohr vjnjrOrvuwreniw,ruhwr vjnjrOrvuwrhie;ruhwrevue
od,ruerxute,revotr utrihxzrevjrfnoheridrqzri hrdiie,rOrvuwrfxuzjwrevj
funeridrevitjrdiixtr virenzreirqu.jrteinojtridrtfjaenjtruhwruffunoeoiht,
uhwrevjhrunjrdnosvejhjwruerevjqrqinjrevuhruhzpiwzk

Hi rOrpjsuhreireu.jraicnusj,ruhwreirfjjfrupniuwrusuoh,rdinrOrvuwrhie
teonnjwriceridrqzrautexjrdinrevnjjrwuztruhwrhosvet,rtirevuerOrpjsuhrei
teunyjrdinrfniyotoiht;rdinrOrvuwrxoeexjrinrhievohsr oevohrwiintrpcertiqj
punxjz-au.jtruhwr uejn;revjhrOr.hj revuerqzrsiuetr uhejwreirpjrqox.jw
eii,r voavrctcuxxzr utrqzrjyjhohsrwoyjntoih:ruhwrevjrfiinranjuecnjtr jnj
ohrsnjuerfuohruhwrohaihyjhojhajrdinr uheridroe;ruhw,rohwjjw,roeruxqite
tfioxjwrtiqjridrevjq,ruhwruxqiterwnojwrcfrevjonrqox.krrJhaicnusohs
qztjxd,revjnjdinj,r oevrevjrpjxojdrevuerevotr utrhievohsrpcerevjrfnoherid
ihjridrqzri hrdjje,ruhwrevuerOrqosverpjrencxzrtuowreirteuneruerqzri h
tvuwi ,rOrpjsuhreirsirupniuwrusuoh,ruhwr jhereirqzraichenzrvictjreirqox.
qzrdxia.:rpcereirtjjr oevr vuerdjunrOr jherdin unw,rvi ridejhrOrxii.jw
pjvohwrqj,rvi rOr utrnjuwzrjyjnzrhi ruhwrevjhreirxuzrwi hrqzrput.jeruhw
nchrdinrqzrxodj,roer icxwrvuyjrquwjruhzrihjrvuyjrevicsverOr utrvuchejw
 oevruhrjyoxraihtaojhaj,rinrevuerOrvuwrpjjhrxuejxzrqiterejnnopxz
dnosvejhjw;ruhwrti,rohwjjw,rOrvuwkrrVi jyjn,rOr jherwi hrevctre irin
evnjjrwuzt,ruhwrvuyohsrtjjhrhievohs,rOrpjsuhreirpjrurxoeexjrpixwjn,ruhw
eirevoh.revjnjr utrnjuxxzrhievohsrohroerpcerqzri hroqusohueoih;rpcerO
aicxwrhierfjntcuwjrqztjxdrdcxxzridrevotreoxxrOrtvicxwrsirwi hreirevj
tvinjrusuoh,ruhwrtjjrevotrfnoheridrurdiie,ruhwrqjutcnjroerpzrqzri h,ruhw
tjjrodrevjnjr utruhzrtoqoxoecwjrinrdoehjtt,revuerOrqosverpjruttcnjwroe
 utrqzri hrdiie:rpcer vjhrOrauqjreirevjrfxuaj,rdonte,roeruffjunjw
jyowjhexzreirqj,revuer vjhrOrxuowrcfrqzrpiuerOraicxwrhierfittopxzrpjrih
tvinjruhz vjnjrevjnjupicet;rtjaihwxz,r vjhrOrauqjreirqjutcnjrevjrqun.
 oevrqzri hrdiie,rOrdichwrqzrdiierhiertirxunsjrpzrursnjuerwjuxkrrPiev
evjtjrevohstrdoxxjwrqzrvjuwr oevrhj roqusohueoiht,ruhwrsuyjrqjrevj
yuficntrusuohreirevjrvosvjterwjsnjj,rtirevuerOrtvii.r oevraixwrxo.jrihj
ohruhruscj;ruhwrOr jherviqjrusuoh,rdoxxjwr oevrevjrpjxojdrevuertiqjrquh
inrqjhrvuwrpjjhrihrtvinjrevjnj;rin,rohrtvine,revuerevjrotxuhwr ut
ohvupoejw,ruhwrOrqosverpjrtcnfnotjwrpjdinjrOr utru unj;ruhwr vueraicntj
eireu.jrdinrqzrtjacnoezrOr.hj rhiek

Iv,r vuernowoacxictrnjtixceoihtrqjhreu.jr vjhrfittjttjwr oevrdjun!rrOe
wjfnoyjtrevjqridrevjrctjridrevitjrqjuhtr voavrnjutihriddjntrdinrevjon
njxojdkrrEvjrdonterevohsrOrfnifitjwreirqztjxdr ut,reirevni rwi hrqz
jhaxitcnjt,ruhwrecnhruxxrqzreuqjraueexjr oxwroheirevjr iiwt,rxjterevj
jhjqzrtvicxwrdohwrevjq,ruhwrevjhrdnjlcjherevjrotxuhwrohrfnitfjaeridrevj
tuqjrinrevjrxo.jrpiiez:revjhrevjrtoqfxjrevohsridrwossohsrcfrqzre i
ainh-dojxwt,rxjterevjzrtvicxwrdohwrtcavrursnuohrevjnj,ruhwrteoxxrpj
fniqfejwreirdnjlcjherevjrotxuhw:revjhreirwjqixotvrqzrpi jnruhwrejhe,revue
evjzrqosverhiertjjruhzryjteosjtridrvupoeueoih,ruhwrpjrfniqfejwreirxii.
dunevjn,rohrinwjnreirdohwricerevjrfjntihtrohvupoeohsk

Evjtjr jnjrevjrtcpbjaeridrevjrdonterhosve’traisoeueoihtrudejnrOr utraiqj
viqjrusuoh,r voxjrevjruffnjvjhtoihtr voavrvuwrtiriyjnnchrqzrqohwr jnj
dnjtvrcfihrqj,ruhwrqzrvjuwr utrdcxxridryuficntkrrEvct,rdjunridrwuhsjnrot
ejhrevictuhwreoqjtrqinjrejnnodzohsrevuhrwuhsjnroetjxd,r vjhruffunjherei
evjrjzjt;ruhwr jrdohwrevjrpcnwjhridruhmojezrsnjuejn,rpzrqcav,revuhrevj
jyoxr voavr jrunjruhmoictrupice:ruhwr vuer utr intjrevuhruxxrevot,rOrvuw
hierevuernjxojdrohrevotrenicpxjrevuerdniqrevjrnjtoshueoihrOrctjwrei
fnuaeotjrOrvifjwreirvuyjkrrOrxii.jw,rOrevicsve,rxo.jrTucx,r viraiqfxuohjw
hierihxzrevuerevjrFvoxoteohjtr jnjrcfihrvoq,rpcerevuerSiwrvuwrdintu.jh
voq;rdinrOrwowrhierhi reu.jrwcjr uztreiraiqfitjrqzrqohw,rpzranzohsreirSiw
ohrqzrwotenjtt,ruhwrnjteohsrcfihrVotrfniyowjhaj,rutrOrvuwrwihjrpjdinj,
dinrqzrwjdjhajruhwrwjxoyjnuhaj;r voav,rodrOrvuwrwihj,rOrvuwruerxjuterpjjh
qinjravjjndcxxzrtcffinejwrchwjnrevotrhj rtcnfnotj,ruhwrfjnvuftraunnojw
evnicsvroer oevrqinjrnjtixceoihk

Evotraihdctoihridrqzrevicsvetr.jferqjru u.jruxxrhosve;rpcerohrevjrqinhohs
Ordjxxrutxjjf;ruhwrvuyohs,rpzrevjruqctjqjheridrqzrqohw,rpjjhrutroer jnj
eonjw,ruhwrqzrtfonoetrjmvuctejw,rOrtxjferyjnzrtichwxz,ruhwr u.jwrqcav
pjeejnraiqfitjwrevuhrOrvuwrjyjnrpjjhrpjdinjkrrUhwrhi rOrpjsuhreirevoh.
tjwuejxz;ruhw,rcfihrwjpuejr oevrqztjxd,rOraihaxcwjwrevuerevotrotxuhw
( voavr utrtirjmajjwohsxzrfxjutuhe,rdncoedcx,ruhwrhirdunevjnrdniqrevj
quohxuhwrevuhrutrOrvuwrtjjh)r utrhiertirjheonjxzrupuhwihjwrutrOrqosve
oqusohj;revueruxevicsvrevjnjr jnjrhirteuejwrohvupoeuhetr virxoyjwrihrevj
tfie,rzjerevuerevjnjrqosvertiqjeoqjtraiqjrpiuetriddrdniqrevjrtvinj,r vi,
joevjnr oevrwjtosh,rinrfjnvuftrhjyjnrpcer vjhrevjzr jnjrwnoyjhrpzranitt
 ohwt,rqosveraiqjreirevotrfxuaj;revuerOrvuwrxoyjwrevjnjrdodejjhrzjuntrhi 
uhwrvuwrhierqjer oevrevjrxjutertvuwi rinrdoscnjridruhzrfjifxjrzje;ruhw
evue,rodrueruhzreoqjrevjzrtvicxwrpjrwnoyjhrvjnj,roer utrfnipupxjrevjz
 jheru uzrusuohrutrtiihrutrjyjnrevjzraicxw,rtjjohsrevjzrvuwrhjyjnrevicsve
doereirdomrvjnjrcfihruhzriaautoih;revuerevjrqiterOraicxwrtcssjteruhz
wuhsjnrdniqr utrdniqruhzrautcuxruaaowjheuxrxuhwohsridrtenussxohsrfjifxj
dniqrevjrquoh,r vi,rutroer utrxo.jxz,rodrevjzr jnjrwnoyjhrvoevjn,r jnj
vjnjrusuohterevjonr oxxt,rtirevjzrquwjrhirteuzrvjnj,rpcer jheriddrusuoh
 oevruxxrfittopxjrtfjjw;rtjxwiqrteuzohsrihjrhosverihrtvinj,rxjterevjz
tvicxwrhiervuyjrevjrvjxfridrevjreowjtruhwrwuzxosverpua.rusuoh;ruhwrevue,
evjnjdinj,rOrvuwrhievohsreirwirpcereiraihtowjnridrtiqjrtudjrnjenjue,roh
autjrOrtvicxwrtjjruhzrtuyusjtrxuhwrcfihrevjrtfiek

Hi ,rOrpjsuhrtinjxzreirnjfjherevuerOrvuwrwcsrqzrauyjrtirxunsjrutreirpnohs
urwiinrevnicsvrusuoh,r voavrwiin,rutrOrtuow,rauqjricerpjzihwr vjnjrqz
dineodoaueoihrbiohjwreirevjrnia.:rcfihrquecnjxzraihtowjnohsrevot,
evjnjdinj,rOrnjtixyjwreirwnu rqjrurtjaihwrdineodoaueoih,rohrevjrquhhjnrid
urtjqoaonaxj,ruerurwoteuhajrdniqrqzr uxx,rbcter vjnjrOrvuwrfxuhejwru
wicpxjrni ridrenjjtrupicere jxyjrzjuntrpjdinj,ridr voavrOrquwjrqjheoih:
evjtjrenjjtrvuyohsrpjjhrfxuhejwrtirevoa.rpjdinj,revjzr uhejwrpcerdj 
foxjtreirpjrwnoyjhrpje jjhrevjq,revuerevjzrqosverpjrevoa.jnruhwrtenihsjn,
uhwrqzr uxxr icxwrpjrtiihrdohotvjwkrrTirevuerOrvuwrhi rurwicpxjr uxx;ruhw
qzricejnr uxxr utrevoa.jhjwr oevrfojajtridreoqpjn,rixwraupxjt,ruhw
jyjnzevohsrOraicxwrevoh.rid,reirqu.jroertenihs;rvuyohsrohroertjyjhrxoeexj
vixjt,rupicerutrposrutrOrqosverfcerqzrunqriceruekrrOhrevjrohtowjridrevot
Orevoa.jhjwrqzr uxxreirupicerejhrdjjerevoa.r oevraiheohcuxxzrpnohsohs
junevriceridrqzrauyj,ruhwrxuzohsroeruerevjrdiieridrevjr uxx,ruhwr ux.ohs
cfihroe;ruhwrevnicsvrevjrtjyjhrvixjtrOraihenoyjwreirfxuherevjrqct.jet,rid
 voavrOreii.rhieoajrevuerOrvuwrsiertjyjhrihrtvinjriceridrevjrtvof;revjtj
Orfxuhejwrxo.jrqzrauhhih,ruhwrdoeejwrevjqroheirdnuqjt,revuervjxwrevjq
xo.jruraunnousj,rtirevuerOraicxwrdonjruxxrevjrtjyjhrschtrohre irqohcejt’
eoqj;revotr uxxrOr utrquhzrur junzrqihevrohrdohotvohs,ruhwrzjerhjyjn
evicsverqztjxdrtudjreoxxroer utrwihjk

 vjhrevotr utrwihjrOrteca.ruxxrevjrsnichwr oevicerqzr uxx,rdinrursnjue
xjhsevrjyjnzr uz,rutrdcxxr oevrteu.jtrinrteoa.tridrevjritojn-xo.jr iiw,
 voavrOrdichwrtirufereirsni ,rutrevjzraicxwr jxxrteuhw;rohtiqcavrevuerO
pjxojyjrOrqosvertjerohrhjunre jhezrevictuhwridrevjq,rxjuyohsrurfnjeez
xunsjrtfuajrpje jjhrevjqruhwrqzr uxx,revuerOrqosvervuyjrniiqreirtjjruh
jhjqz,ruhwrevjzrqosvervuyjrhirtvjxejnrdniqrevjrzichsrenjjt,rodrevjz
ueejqfejwreiruffniuavrqzricejnr uxxk

Evctrohre irzjunt’reoqjrOrvuwrurevoa.rsniyj;ruhwrohrdoyjrinrtomrzjunt’
eoqjrOrvuwrur iiwrpjdinjrqzrw jxxohs,rsni ohsrtirqihtenictxzrevoa.ruhw
tenihsrevueroer utrohwjjwrfjndjaexzroqfuttupxj:ruhwrhirqjh,ridr vuer.ohw
tijyjn,raicxwrjyjnroqusohjrevuerevjnjr utruhzevohsrpjzihwroe,rqcavrxjttru
vupoeueoihkrrUtrdinrevjr uzr voavrOrfnifitjwreirqztjxdreirsirohruhwrice
(dinrOrxjderhiruyjhcj),roer utrpzrtjeeohsre irxuwwjnt,rihjreirurfunerid
evjrnia.r voavr utrxi ,ruhwrevjhrpni.jroh,ruhwrxjderniiqreirfxuajruhievjn
xuwwjnrcfihrevue;rtir vjhrevjre irxuwwjntr jnjreu.jhrwi hrhirquhrxoyohs
aicxwraiqjrwi hreirqjr oevicerwiohsrvoqtjxdrqotavojd;ruhwrodrevjzrvuw
aiqjrwi h,revjzr jnjrteoxxrihrevjricetowjridrqzricejnr uxxk

EvctrOreii.ruxxrevjrqjutcnjtrvcquhrfncwjhajraicxwrtcssjterdinrqzri h
fnjtjnyueoih;ruhwroer oxxrpjrtjjhruerxjhsevrevuerevjzr jnjrhieruxeisjevjn
 oevicerbcternjutih;revicsvrOrdinjtu rhievohsruerevuereoqjrqinjrevuhrqz
qjnjrdjunrtcssjtejwreirqjk




AVUFEJNrMOO—UrAUYJrNJENJUE


 voxjrevotr utrwiohs,rOr utrhieruxeisjevjnraunjxjttridrqzrievjnrudduont;
dinrOrvuwrursnjueraihajnhrcfihrqjrdinrqzrxoeexjrvjnwridrsiuet:revjzr jnj
hierihxzrurnjuwzrtcffxzreirqjrihrjyjnzriaautoih,ruhwrpjsuhreirpj
tcddoaojherdinrqj,r oevicerevjrjmfjhtjridrfi wjnruhwrtvie,rpceruxti
 oevicerevjrdueoscjridrvcheohsrudejnrevjr oxwrihjt;ruhwrOr utrxiuevrei
xitjrevjruwyuheusjridrevjq,ruhwreirvuyjrevjqruxxreirhcntjrcfriyjnrusuohk

Dinrevotrfcnfitj,rudejnrxihsraihtowjnueoih,rOraicxwrevoh.ridrpcere ir uzt
eirfnjtjnyjrevjq:rihjr ut,reirdohwruhievjnraihyjhojherfxuajreirwosrurauyj
chwjnsnichw,ruhwreirwnoyjrevjqroheiroerjyjnzrhosve;ruhwrevjrievjnr utrei
jhaxitjre irinrevnjjrxoeexjrpoetridrxuhw,rnjqiejrdniqrihjruhievjn,ruhwrut
qcavraihajuxjwrutrOraicxw,r vjnjrOrqosver.jjfrupicervuxd-u-wigjhrzichs
siuetrohrjuavrfxuaj;rtirevuerodruhzrwotutejnrvuffjhjwreirevjrdxia.roh
sjhjnux,rOrqosverpjrupxjreirnuotjrevjqrusuohr oevrxoeexjrenicpxjruhw
eoqj:ruhwrevotrevicsvroer icxwrnjlconjrursiiwrwjuxridreoqjruhwrxupicn,rO
evicsver utrevjrqiternueoihuxrwjtoshk

Uaainwohsxz,rOrtfjhertiqjreoqjreirdohwricerevjrqiternjeonjwrfunetridrevj
otxuhw;ruhwrOrfoeavjwrcfihrihj,r voavr utrutrfnoyuej,rohwjjw,rutrqzrvjune
aicxwr otv:roer utrurxoeexjrwuqfrfojajridrsnichwrohrevjrqowwxjridrevj
vixxi ruhwrevoa.r iiwt,r vjnj,rutrotriptjnyjw,rOruxqiterxiterqztjxdrihaj
pjdinj,rjhwjuyicnohsreiraiqjrpua.revuer uzrdniqrevjrjutejnhrfuneridrevj
otxuhwkrrVjnjrOrdichwruraxjunrfojajridrxuhw,rhjunrevnjjruanjt,rti
tcnnichwjwr oevr iiwtrevueroer utruxqiteruhrjhaxitcnjrpzrhuecnj;rue
xjute,roerwowrhier uherhjunrtirqcavrxupicnreirqu.jroertirutrevjrievjn
fojajridrsnichwrOrvuwr in.jwrtirvunwruek

Oroqqjwouejxzr jhereir in.r oevrevotrfojajridrsnichw;ruhwrohrxjttrevuhru
qihev’treoqjrOrvuwrtirdjhajwroernichwrevuerqzrdxia.,rinrvjnw,rauxxroe
 voavrzicrfxjutj,r voavr jnjrhiertir oxwrhi rutruerdonterevjzrqosverpj
tcffitjwreirpj,r jnjr jxxrjhicsvrtjacnjwrohroe:rti,r oeviceruhzrdcnevjn
wjxuz,rOrnjqiyjwrejhrzichsrtvj-siuetruhwre irvj-siuetreirevotrfojaj,ruhw
 vjhrevjzr jnjrevjnjrOraiheohcjwreirfjndjaerevjrdjhajreoxxrOrvuwrquwjroe
utrtjacnjrutrevjrievjn;r voav,rvi jyjn,rOrwowruerqinjrxjotcnj,ruhwroe
eii.rqjrcfrqinjreoqjrpzrursnjuerwjuxkrrUxxrevotrxupicnrOr utruerevj
jmfjhtjrid,rfcnjxzrdniqrqzruffnjvjhtoihtrihruaaicheridrevjrfnoheridru
quh’trdiie;rdinrutrzjerOrvuwrhjyjnrtjjhruhzrvcquhranjuecnjraiqjrhjunrevj
otxuhw;ruhwrOrvuwrhi rxoyjwre irzjuntrchwjnrevotrchjutohjtt,r voav,
ohwjjw,rquwjrqzrxodjrqcavrxjttraiqdineupxjrevuhroer utrpjdinj,rutrquzrpj
 jxxroqusohjwrpzruhzr vir.hi r vueroerotreirxoyjrohrevjraihteuherthunjrid
evjrdjunridrquhkrrUhwrevotrOrqcteriptjnyj,r oevrsnojd,reii,revuerevj
wotaiqfitcnjridrqzrqohwrvuwrsnjueroqfnjttoihruxtircfihrevjrnjxosoictrfune
idrqzrevicsvet;rdinrevjrwnjuwruhwrejnninridrduxxohsroheirevjrvuhwtrid
tuyusjtruhwrauhhopuxtrxuzrtircfihrqzrtfonoet,revuerOrtjxwiqrdichwrqztjxd
ohrurwcjrejqfjnrdinruffxoaueoihreirqzrQu.jn;ruerxjute,rhier oevrevj
tjwuejrauxqhjttruhwrnjtoshueoihridrticxr voavrOr utr ihereirwi:rOrnuevjn
fnuzjwreirSiwrutrchwjnrsnjueruddxoaeoihruhwrfnjttcnjridrqohw,rtcnnichwjw
 oevrwuhsjn,ruhwrohrjmfjaeueoihrjyjnzrhosveridrpjohsrqcnwjnjwruhw
wjyicnjwrpjdinjrqinhohs;ruhwrOrqcterejteodz,rdniqrqzrjmfjnojhaj,revueru
ejqfjnridrfjuaj,revuh.dcxhjtt,rxiyj,ruhwruddjaeoih,rotrqcavrevjrqinj
fnifjnrdnuqjrdinrfnuzjnrevuhrevueridrejnninruhwrwotaiqfitcnj:ruhwrevue
chwjnrevjrwnjuwridrqotavojdroqfjhwohs,rurquhrotrhirqinjrdoerdinru
aiqdineohsrfjndinquhajridrevjrwcezridrfnuzohsreirSiwrevuhrvjrotrdinru
njfjheuhajrihrurtoa.-pjw;rdinrevjtjrwotaiqfitcnjtruddjaerevjrqohw,rutrevj
ievjntrwirevjrpiwz;ruhwrevjrwotaiqfitcnjridrevjrqohwrqcterhjajttunoxzrpj
utrsnjuerurwotupoxoezrutrevueridrevjrpiwz,ruhwrqcavrsnjuejn;rfnuzohsrei
Siwrpjohsrfnifjnxzruhruaeridrevjrqohw,rhieridrevjrpiwzk

PcereirsirihkrrUdejnrOrvuwrevctrtjacnjwrihjrfuneridrqzrxoeexjrxoyohs
teia.,rOr jherupicerevjr vixjrotxuhw,rtjunavohsrdinruhievjnrfnoyuejrfxuaj
eirqu.jrtcavruhievjnrwjfitoe;r vjh,r uhwjnohsrqinjreirevjr jterfioherid
evjrotxuhwrevuhrOrvuwrjyjnrwihjrzje,ruhwrxii.ohsricereirtju,rOrevicsverO
tu rurpiuercfihrevjrtju,ruerursnjuerwoteuhajkrrOrvuwrdichwrurfjntfjaeoyj
sxuttrinre irohrihjridrevjrtjuqjh’travjtet,r voavrOrtuyjwriceridricn
tvof,rpcerOrvuwroerhierupicerqj;ruhwrevotr utrtirnjqiejrevuerOraicxwrhie
ejxxr vuereirqu.jridroe,revicsvrOrxii.jwrueroereoxxrqzrjzjtr jnjrhierupxj
eirvixwreirxii.ruhzrxihsjn;r vjevjnroer utrurpiuerinrhierOrwirhier.hi ,
pcerutrOrwjtajhwjwrdniqrevjrvoxxrOraicxwrtjjrhirqinjridroe,rtirOrsuyjroe
iyjn;rihxzrOrnjtixyjwreirsirhirqinjricer oevicerurfjntfjaeoyjrsxuttrohrqz
fia.jekrr vjhrOr utraiqjrwi hrevjrvoxxreirevjrjhwridrevjrotxuhw,r vjnj,
ohwjjw,rOrvuwrhjyjnrpjjhrpjdinj,rOr utrfnjtjhexzraihyohajwrevuerevj
tjjohsrevjrfnoheridrurquh’trdiier utrhiertcavrurtenuhsjrevohsrohrevj
otxuhwrutrOroqusohjw:ruhwrpcerevueroer utrurtfjaouxrfniyowjhajrevuerOr ut
autercfihrevjrtowjridrevjrotxuhwr vjnjrevjrtuyusjtrhjyjnrauqj,rOrtvicxw
jutoxzrvuyjr.hi hrevuerhievohsr utrqinjrdnjlcjherevuhrdinrevjrauhijtrdniq
evjrquoh,r vjhrevjzrvuffjhjwreirpjrurxoeexjreiirdunriceruertju,reirtviie
iyjnreirevuertowjridrevjrotxuhwrdinrvunpicn:rxo.j otj,rutrevjzridejhrqje
uhwrdicsverohrevjonrauhijt,revjryoaeint,rvuyohsreu.jhruhzrfnotihjnt,
 icxwrpnohsrevjqriyjnreirevotrtvinj,r vjnj,ruaainwohsreirevjonrwnjuwdcx
acteiqt,rpjohsruxxrauhhopuxt,revjzr icxwr.oxxruhwrjuerevjq;ridr voav
vjnjudejnk

 vjhrOr utraiqjrwi hrevjrvoxxreirevjrtvinj,rutrOrtuowrupiyj,rpjohsrevj
T krfioheridrevjrotxuhw,rOr utrfjndjaexzraihdichwjwruhwruqugjw;rhinrotroe
fittopxjrdinrqjreirjmfnjttrevjrvinninridrqzrqohwruertjjohsrevjrtvinj
tfnjuwr oevrt.cxxt,rvuhwt,rdjje,ruhwrievjnrpihjtridrvcquhrpiwojt;ruhw
funeoacxunxzrOriptjnyjwrurfxuajr vjnjrevjnjrvuwrpjjhrurdonjrquwj,ruhwru
aonaxjrwcsrohrevjrjunev,rxo.jruraia.foe,r vjnjrOrtcffitjwrevjrtuyusj
 njeavjtrvuwrtuerwi hreirevjonrvcquhrdjuteohstrcfihrevjrpiwojtridrevjon
djxxi -anjuecnjtk

Or utrtiruteihotvjwr oevrevjrtosveridrevjtjrevohst,revuerOrjhejneuohjwrhi
hieoihtridruhzrwuhsjnreirqztjxdrdniqroerdinrurxihsr voxj:ruxxrqz
uffnjvjhtoihtr jnjrpcnojwrohrevjrevicsvetridrtcavrurfoeavridrohvcquh,
vjxxotvrpnceuxoez,ruhwrevjrvinninridrevjrwjsjhjnuazridrvcquhrhuecnj,
 voav,revicsvrOrvuwrvjunwridroeridejh,rzjerOrhjyjnrvuwrtirhjunruryoj rid
pjdinj;rohrtvine,rOrecnhjwru uzrqzrduajrdniqrevjrvinnowrtfjaeuaxj;rqz
teiquavrsnj rtoa.,ruhwrOr utrbcteruerevjrfioheridrduoheohs,r vjhrhuecnj
wotavunsjwrevjrwotinwjnrdniqrqzrteiquav;ruhwrvuyohsryiqoejwr oevrchaiqqih
yoixjhaj,rOr utrurxoeexjrnjxojyjw,rpceraicxwrhierpjunreirteuzrohrevj
fxuajrurqiqjhe;rtirOrsiercfrevjrvoxxrusuohr oevruxxrevjrtfjjwrOraicxw,
uhwr ux.jwrihrei unwtrqzri hrvupoeueoihk

 vjhrOrauqjrurxoeexjriceridrevuerfuneridrevjrotxuhwrOrteiiwrteoxxru voxj,
utruqugjw,ruhwrevjh,rnjaiyjnohsrqztjxd,rOrxii.jwrcfr oevrevjrceqite
uddjaeoihridrqzrticx,ruhw,r oevrurdxiiwridrejuntrohrqzrjzjt,rsuyjrSiw
evuh.t,revuervuwrauterqzrdonterxierohrurfuneridrevjr inxwr vjnjrOr ut
woteohscotvjwrdniqrtcavrwnjuwdcxranjuecnjtrutrevjtj;ruhwrevue,revicsvrO
vuwrjtejjqjwrqzrfnjtjheraihwoeoihryjnzrqotjnupxj,rvuwrzjersoyjhrqjrti
quhzraiqdinetrohroerevuerOrvuwrteoxxrqinjreirsoyjrevuh.trdinrevuhrei
aiqfxuohrid:ruhwrevot,rupiyjruxx,revuerOrvuw,rjyjhrohrevotrqotjnupxj
aihwoeoih,rpjjhraiqdinejwr oevrevjr.hi xjwsjridrVoqtjxd,ruhwrevjrvifjrid
Votrpxjttohs:r voavr utrurdjxoaoezrqinjrevuhrtcddoaojhexzrjlcoyuxjherei
uxxrevjrqotjnzr voavrOrvuwrtcddjnjw,rinraicxwrtcddjnk

Ohrevotrdnuqjridrevuh.dcxhjttrOr jherviqjreirqzrautexj,ruhwrpjsuhreirpj
qcavrjutojnrhi ,rutreirevjrtudjezridrqzraonacqteuhajt,revuhrjyjnrOr ut
pjdinj:rdinrOriptjnyjwrevuerevjtjr njeavjtrhjyjnrauqjreirevotrotxuhwroh
tjunavridr vuerevjzraicxwrsje;rfjnvuftrhiertjj.ohs,rhier uheohs,rinrhie
jmfjaeohsruhzevohsrvjnj;ruhwrvuyohsridejh,rhirwicpe,rpjjhrcfrevjraiyjnjw,
 iiwzrfuneridroer oevicerdohwohsruhzevohsreirevjonrfcnfitjkrrOr.hj rOrvuw
pjjhrvjnjrhi ruxqiterjosvejjhrzjunt,ruhwrhjyjnrtu revjrxjuterdiietejftrid
vcquhranjuecnjrevjnjrpjdinj;ruhwrOrqosverpjrjosvejjhrzjuntrqinjrut
jheonjxzraihajuxjwrutrOr utrhi ,rodrOrwowrhierwotaiyjnrqztjxdreirevjq,
 voavrOrvuwrhirquhhjnridriaautoihreirwi;roerpjohsrqzrihxzrpctohjttrei
.jjfrqztjxdrjheonjxzraihajuxjwr vjnjrOr ut,rchxjttrOrdichwrurpjeejnrtine
idranjuecnjtrevuhrauhhopuxtreirqu.jrqztjxdr.hi hreikrrZjerOrjhejneuohjw
tcavruhrupvinnjhajridrevjrtuyusjr njeavjtrevuerOrvuyjrpjjhrtfju.ohsrid,
uhwridrevjr njeavjw,rohvcquhracteiqridrevjonrwjyicnohsruhwrjueohsrihj
uhievjnrcf,revuerOraiheohcjwrfjhtoyjruhwrtuw,ruhwr.jferaxitjr oevohrqz
i hraonaxjrdinruxqitere irzjuntrudejnrevot:r vjhrOrtuzrqzri hraonaxj,rO
qjuhrpzroerqzrevnjjrfxuheueoiht—yogkrqzrautexj,rqzraichenzrtjuer( voavrO
auxxjwrqzrpi jn),ruhwrqzrjhaxitcnjrohrevjr iiwt:rhinrwowrOrxii.rudejn
evotrdinruhzrievjnrctjrevuhruhrjhaxitcnjrdinrqzrsiuet;rdinrevjruyjntoih
 voavrhuecnjrsuyjrqjreirevjtjrvjxxotvr njeavjtr utrtcav,revuerOr utrut
djundcxridrtjjohsrevjqrutridrtjjohsrevjrwjyoxrvoqtjxdkrrOrwowrhiertirqcav
utrsireirxii.rudejnrqzrpiueruxxrevotreoqj,rpcerpjsuhrnuevjnreirevoh.rid
qu.ohsruhievjn;rdinrOraicxwrhierevoh.ridrjyjnrqu.ohsruhzrqinjrueejqfetrei
pnohsrevjrievjnrpiuernichwrevjrotxuhwreirqj,rxjterOrtvicxwrqjjer oevrtiqj
idrevjtjranjuecnjtruertju;rohr voavrautj,rodrOrvuwrvuffjhjwreirvuyj
duxxjhroheirevjonrvuhwt,rOr.hj r vuer icxwrvuyjrpjjhrqzrxiek

Eoqj,rvi jyjn,ruhwrevjrtueotduaeoihrOrvuwrevuerOr utrohrhirwuhsjnrid
pjohsrwotaiyjnjwrpzrevjtjrfjifxj,rpjsuhreir junriddrqzrchjutohjttrupice
evjq;ruhwrOrpjsuhreirxoyjrbcterohrevjrtuqjraiqfitjwrquhhjnrutrpjdinj,
ihxzr oevrevotrwoddjnjhaj,revuerOrctjwrqinjrauceoih,ruhwr.jferqzrjzjt
qinjrupicerqjrevuhrOrwowrpjdinj,rxjterOrtvicxwrvuffjhreirpjrtjjhrpzruhz
idrevjq;ruhwrfuneoacxunxz,rOr utrqinjrauceoictridrdonohsrqzrsch,rxjteruhz
idrevjq,rpjohsrihrevjrotxuhw,rtvicxwrvuffjhreirvjunroekrrOer ut,
evjnjdinj,ruryjnzrsiiwrfniyowjhajreirqjrevuerOrvuwrdcnhotvjwrqztjxdr oev
ureuqjrpnjjwridrsiuet,ruhwrevuerOrvuwrhirhjjwreirvcheruhzrqinjrupicerevj
 iiwt,rinrtviieruerevjq;ruhwrodrOrwowraueavruhzridrevjqrudejnrevot,roe
 utrpzrenuftruhwrthunjt,rutrOrvuwrwihjrpjdinj;rtirevuerdinre irzjunt
udejnrevotrOrpjxojyjrOrhjyjnrdonjwrqzrschrihajridd,revicsvrOrhjyjnr jhe
icer oeviceroe;ruhwr vuer utrqinj,rutrOrvuwrtuyjwrevnjjrfoteixtricerid
evjrtvof,rOrux uztraunnojwrevjqricer oevrqj,rinruerxjutere iridrevjq,
teoa.ohsrevjqrohrqzrsiue-t.ohrpjxekrrOruxtirdcnpotvjwrcfrihjridrevjrsnjue
acexuttjtrevuerOrvuwriceridrevjrtvof,ruhwrquwjrqjrurpjxereirvuhsroerih
uxti;rtirevuerOr utrhi rurqiterdinqowupxjrdjxxi reirxii.ruer vjhrOr jhe
upniuw,rodrzicruwwreirevjrdinqjnrwjtanofeoihridrqztjxdrevjrfuneoacxunrid
e irfoteixt,ruhwrurpniuwt inwrvuhsohsruerqzrtowjrohrurpjxe,rpcer oeviceru
tauppunwk

Evohstrsiohsrihrevct,rutrOrvuyjrtuow,rdinrtiqjreoqj,rOrtjjqjw,rjmajfeohs
evjtjrauceoiht,reirpjrnjwcajwreirqzrdinqjnrauxq,rtjwuejr uzridrxoyohsk
Uxxrevjtjrevohstrejhwjwreirtvi rqjrqinjruhwrqinjrvi rdunrqzraihwoeoihr ut
dniqrpjohsrqotjnupxj,raiqfunjwreirtiqjrievjnt;rhuz,reirquhzrievjn
funeoacxuntridrxodjr voavroerqosvervuyjrfxjutjwrSiwreirvuyjrquwjrqzrxiek
Oerfcerqjrcfihrnjdxjaeohsrvi rxoeexjrnjfohohsrevjnjr icxwrpjruqihs
quh.ohwrueruhzraihwoeoihridrxodjrodrfjifxjr icxwrnuevjnraiqfunjrevjon
aihwoeoihr oevrevitjrevuer jnjr intj,rohrinwjnreirpjrevuh.dcx,revuhrpj
ux uztraiqfunohsrevjqr oevrevitjr voavrunjrpjeejn,reiruttoterevjon
qcnqcnohstruhwraiqfxuohohstk

Utrohrqzrfnjtjheraihwoeoihrevjnjr jnjrhiernjuxxzrquhzrevohstr voavrO
 uhejw,rtirohwjjwrOrevicsverevuerevjrdnosvetrOrvuwrpjjhrohrupicerevjtj
tuyusjr njeavjt,ruhwrevjraihajnhrOrvuwrpjjhrohrdinrqzri hrfnjtjnyueoih,
vuwreu.jhriddrevjrjwsjridrqzrohyjheoih,rdinrqzri hraihyjhojhajt;ruhwrO
vuwrwniffjwrursiiwrwjtosh,r voavrOrvuwrihajrpjherqzrevicsvetrcfih,ruhw
evuer utreirenzrodrOraicxwrhierqu.jrtiqjridrqzrpunxjzroheirquxe,ruhwrevjh
enzreirpnj rqztjxdrtiqjrpjjnkrrEvotr utrnjuxxzrur voqtoauxrevicsve,ruhwrO
njfniyjwrqztjxdridejhrdinrevjrtoqfxoaoezridroe:rdinrOrfnjtjhexzrtu revjnj
 icxwrpjrevjr uheridrtjyjnuxrevohstrhjajttunzreirevjrqu.ohsrqzrpjjnrevue
oer icxwrpjroqfittopxjrdinrqjreirtcffxz;rut,rdonte,raut.treirfnjtjnyjroe
oh,r voavr utrurevohsrevue,rutrOrvuyjriptjnyjwruxnjuwz,rOraicxwrhjyjn
aiqfutt:rhi,revicsvrOrtfjherhierihxzrquhzrwuzt,rpcer jj.t,rhuzrqihevt,roh
ueejqfeohsroe,rpcereirhirfcnfitjkrrOhrevjrhjmerfxuaj,rOrvuwrhirviftrei
qu.jroer.jjf,rhirzjutereirqu.jroer in.,rhiraiffjnrinr.jeexjreirqu.jroe
piox;ruhwrzjer oevruxxrevjtjrevohstr uheohs,rOryjnoxzrpjxojyj,rvuwrhie
evjrdnosvetruhwrejnnintrOr utrohrupicerevjrtuyusjtrohejnyjhjw,rOrvuw
chwjneu.jhroe,ruhwrfjnvuftrpnicsveroereirfuttreii;rdinrOrtjxwiqrsuyj
uhzevohsriyjnr oeviceruaaiqfxotvohsroe,r vjhrihajrOrvuwroerohrqzrvjuwrei
pjsuhroekrrPcerqzrohyjheoihrhi rnuhrlcoejruhievjnr uz;rdinrhosveruhwrwuz
Oraicxwrevoh.ridrhievohsrpcervi rOrqosverwjtenizrtiqjridrevjrqihtejntroh
evjonrancjx,rpxiiwzrjhejneuohqjhe,ruhwrodrfittopxjrtuyjrevjryoaeoqrevjz
tvicxwrpnohsrvoevjnreirwjtenizkrrOer icxwreu.jrcfrurxunsjnryixcqjrevuh
evotr vixjr in.rotrohejhwjwreirpjreirtjerwi hruxxrevjraihenoyuhajtrO
vueavjw,rinrnuevjnrpniiwjwrcfih,rohrqzrevicsvet,rdinrevjrwjtenizohsrevjtj
anjuecnjt,rinruerxjuterdnosvejhohsrevjqrtirutreirfnjyjherevjonraiqohs
voevjnruhzrqinj:rpceruxxrevotr utrupineoyj;rhievohsraicxwrpjrfittopxjrei
eu.jrjddjae,rchxjttrOr utreirpjrevjnjreirwiroerqztjxd:ruhwr vueraicxwrihj
quhrwiruqihsrevjq,r vjhrfjnvuftrevjnjrqosverpjre jhezrinrevonezridrevjq
eisjevjnr oevrevjonrwunet,rinrevjonrpi truhwrunni t,r oevr voavrevjz
aicxwrtviierutrencjreirurqun.rutrOraicxwr oevrqzrsch?

TiqjeoqjtrOrevicsverodrwossohsrurvixjrchwjnrevjrfxuajr vjnjrevjzrquwj
evjonrdonj,ruhwrfceeohsrohrdoyjrinrtomrfichwtridrschfi wjn,r voav,r vjh
evjzr.ohwxjwrevjonrdonj,r icxwraihtjlcjhexzreu.jrdonj,ruhwrpxi rcfruxx
evuer utrhjunroe:rpcerut,rohrevjrdonterfxuaj,rOrtvicxwrpjrch oxxohsrei
 utejrtirqcavrfi wjnrcfihrevjq,rqzrteinjrpjohsrhi r oevohrevjrlcuheoezrid
ihjrpunnjx,rtirhjoevjnraicxwrOrpjrtcnjridroetrsiohsriddrueruhzrajneuoh
eoqj,r vjhroerqosvertcnfnotjrevjq;ruhw,ruerpjte,revueroer icxwrwirxoeexj
qinjrevuhrbcterpxi revjrdonjrupicerevjonrjuntruhwrdnosverevjq,rpcerhie
tcddoaojhereirqu.jrevjqrdintu.jrevjrfxuaj:rtirOrxuowroerutowj;ruhwrevjh
fnifitjwrevuerOr icxwrfxuajrqztjxdrohruqpctvrohrtiqjraihyjhojherfxuaj,
 oevrqzrevnjjrschtruxxrwicpxj-xiuwjw,ruhwrohrevjrqowwxjridrevjonrpxiiwz
ajnjqihzrxjerdxzruerevjq,r vjhrOrtvicxwrpjrtcnjreir.oxxrinr ichwrfjnvuft
e irinrevnjjruerjyjnzrtvie;ruhwrevjhrduxxohsrohrcfihrevjqr oevrqzrevnjj
foteixtruhwrqzrt inw,rOrquwjrhirwicperpcerevue,rodrevjnjr jnjre jhez,rO
tvicxwr.oxxrevjqruxxkrrEvotrduhazrfxjutjwrqzrevicsvetrdinrtiqjr jj.t,ruhw
Or utrtirdcxxridroerevuerOridejhrwnjuqjwridroe,ruhw,rtiqjeoqjt,revuerO
 utrbctersiohsreirxjerdxzruerevjqrohrqzrtxjjfkrrOr jhertirdunr oevroeroh
qzroqusohueoihrevuerOrjqfxizjwrqztjxdrtjyjnuxrwuztreirdohwricerfnifjn
fxuajtreirfcerqztjxdrohruqpctauwj,rutrOrtuow,reir ueavrdinrevjq,ruhwrO
 jherdnjlcjhexzreirevjrfxuajroetjxd,r voavr utrhi rsni hrqinjrduqoxounrei
qj;rpcer voxjrqzrqohwr utrevctrdoxxjwr oevrevicsvetridrnjyjhsjruhwru
pxiiwzrfceeohsre jhezrinrevonezridrevjqreirevjrt inw,rutrOrquzrauxxroe,
evjrvinninrOrvuwruerevjrfxuaj,ruhwruerevjrtoshuxtridrevjrpunpunict
 njeavjtrwjyicnohsrihjruhievjn,rupjeejwrqzrquxoajkrr jxx,ruerxjhsevrO
dichwrurfxuajrohrevjrtowjridrevjrvoxxr vjnjrOr utrtueotdojwrOrqosve
tjacnjxzr uoereoxxrOrtu ruhzridrevjonrpiuetraiqohs;ruhwrqosverevjh,rjyjh
pjdinjrevjzr icxwrpjrnjuwzreiraiqjrihrtvinj,raihyjzrqztjxdrchtjjhrohei
tiqjrevoa.jetridrenjjt,rohrihjridr voavrevjnjr utrurvixxi rxunsjrjhicsv
eiraihajuxrqjrjheonjxz;ruhwrevjnjrOrqosvertoeruhwriptjnyjruxxrevjon
pxiiwzrwiohst,ruhwreu.jrqzrdcxxruoqruerevjonrvjuwt,r vjhrevjzr jnjrti
axitjreisjevjnrutrevueroer icxwrpjrhjmereiroqfittopxjrevuerOrtvicxwrqott
qzrtvie,rinrevuerOraicxwrduoxr ichwohsrevnjjrinrdicnridrevjqruerevjrdonte
tviekrrOhrevotrfxuaj,revjh,rOrnjtixyjwreirdcxdoxrqzrwjtosh;ruhw
uaainwohsxzrOrfnjfunjwre irqct.jetruhwrqzrinwohunzrdi xohs-fojajkrrEvj
e irqct.jetrOrxiuwjwr oevrurpnuajridrtxcstrjuav,ruhwrdicnrinrdoyjrtquxxjn
pcxxjet,rupicerevjrtogjridrfoteixrpcxxjet;ruhwrevjrdi xohs-fojajrOrxiuwjw
 oevrhjunrurvuhwdcxridrt uh-tvieridrevjrxunsjtertogj;rOruxtirxiuwjwrqz
foteixtr oevrupicerdicnrpcxxjetrjuav;ruhw,rohrevotrfitecnj,r jxxrfniyowjw
 oevruqqchoeoihrdinrurtjaihwruhwrevonwravunsj,rOrfnjfunjwrqztjxdrdinrqz
jmfjwoeoihk

UdejnrOrvuwrevctrxuowrevjrtavjqjridrqzrwjtosh,ruhwrohrqzroqusohueoihrfce
oerohrfnuaeoaj,rOraiheohcuxxzrquwjrqzreicnrjyjnzrqinhohsreirevjreifrid
evjrvoxx,r voavr utrdniqrqzrautexj,rutrOrauxxjwroe,rupicerevnjjrqoxjtrin
qinj,reirtjjrodrOraicxwriptjnyjruhzrpiuetrcfihrevjrtju,raiqohsrhjunrevj
otxuhw,rinrteuhwohsriyjnrei unwtroe;rpcerOrpjsuhreireonjridrevotrvunw
wcez,rudejnrOrvuwrdinre irinrevnjjrqihevtraihteuhexzr.jferqzr ueav,rpce
auqjrux uztrpua.r oeviceruhzrwotaiyjnz;revjnjrvuyohsrhie,rohruxxrevue
eoqj,rpjjhrevjrxjuteruffjunuhaj,rhierihxzrihrinrhjunrevjrtvinj,rpcerih
evjr vixjriajuh,rtirdunrutrqzrjzjrinrsxuttraicxwrnjuavrjyjnzr uzk

UtrxihsrutrOr.jferqzrwuoxzreicnreirevjrvoxx,reirxii.rice,rtirxihsruxtirO
.jfercfrevjryosicnridrqzrwjtosh,ruhwrqzrtfonoetrtjjqjwreirpjruxxrevj
 voxjrohrurtcoeupxjrdnuqjrdinrtiricenusjictruhrjmjaceoihrutrevjr.oxxohs
e jhezrinrevonezrhu.jwrtuyusjt,rdinruhriddjhajr voavrOrvuwrhierueruxx
jhejnjwroheiruhzrwotacttoihridrohrqzrevicsvet,ruhzrdunevjnrevuhrqz
futtoihtr jnjruerdonterdonjwrpzrevjrvinninrOraihajoyjwruerevjrchhuecnux
acteiqridrevjrfjifxjridrevueraichenz,r vi,roertjjqt,rvuwrpjjhrtcddjnjwrpz
Fniyowjhaj,rohrVotr otjrwotfitoeoihridrevjr inxw,reirvuyjrhirievjnrscowj
evuhrevueridrevjonri hrupiqohupxjruhwryoeouejwrfuttoiht;ruhwraihtjlcjhexz
 jnjrxjde,ruhwrfjnvuftrvuwrpjjhrtirdinrtiqjrusjt,reiruaertcavrvinnow
evohst,ruhwrnjajoyjrtcavrwnjuwdcxracteiqt,rutrhievohsrpcerhuecnj,
jheonjxzrupuhwihjwrpzrVjuyjh,ruhwruaecuejwrpzrtiqjrvjxxotvrwjsjhjnuaz,
aicxwrvuyjrnchrevjqroheikrrPcerhi ,r vjh,rutrOrvuyjrtuow,rOrpjsuhreirpj
 junzridrevjrdncoexjttrjmacntoihr voavrOrvuwrquwjrtirxihsruhwrtirdun
jyjnzrqinhohsrohryuoh,rtirqzrifohoihridrevjruaeoihroetjxdrpjsuhreiruxejn;
uhwrOrpjsuh,r oevraiixjnruhwrauxqjnrevicsvet,reiraihtowjnr vuerOr ut
siohsreirjhsusjroh;r vuerucevinoezrinrauxxrOrvuwreirfnjejhwreirpjrbcwsj
uhwrjmjaceoihjnrcfihrevjtjrqjhrutranoqohuxt,r viqrVjuyjhrvuwrevicsverdoe
dinrtirquhzrusjtreirtcddjnrchfchotvjwreirsirih,ruhwreirpjrutroer jnjrevj
jmjaceoihjntridrVotrbcwsqjhetrihjrcfihruhievjn;rvi rdunrevjtjrfjifxjr jnj
iddjhwjntrusuohterqj,ruhwr vuernosverOrvuwreirjhsusjrohrevjrlcunnjxrid
evuerpxiiwr voavrevjzrtvjwrfniqotacictxzrcfihrihjruhievjnkrrOrwjpuejw
evotryjnzridejhr oevrqztjxdrevct:r“Vi rwirOr.hi r vuerSiwrVoqtjxdrbcwsjt
ohrevotrfuneoacxunrautj?rrOerotrajneuohrevjtjrfjifxjrwirhieraiqqoerevot
utruranoqj;roerotrhierusuohterevjonri hraihtaojhajtrnjfniyohs,rinrevjon
xosvernjfniuavohsrevjq;revjzrwirhier.hi roereirpjruhriddjhaj,ruhwrevjh
aiqqoeroerohrwjdouhajridrwoyohjrbcteoaj,rutr jrwirohruxqiteruxxrevjrtoht
 jraiqqoekrrEvjzrevoh.roerhirqinjruranoqjreir.oxxruraufeoyjreu.jhrohr un
evuhr jrwireir.oxxruhrim;rinreirjuervcquhrdxjtvrevuhr jrwireirjue
qceeihk”

 vjhrOraihtowjnjwrevotrurxoeexj,roerdixxi jwrhjajttunoxzrevuerOr ut
ajneuohxzrohrevjr nihs;revuerevjtjrfjifxjr jnjrhierqcnwjnjnt,rohrevj
tjhtjrevuerOrvuwrpjdinjraihwjqhjwrevjqrohrqzrevicsvet,ruhzrqinjrevuh
evitjrAvnoteouhtr jnjrqcnwjnjntr viridejhrfcereirwjuevrevjrfnotihjnt
eu.jhrohrpueexj;rinrqinjrdnjlcjhexz,rcfihrquhzriaautoiht,rfcer vixj
eniiftridrqjhreirevjrt inw,r oevicersoyohsrlcunejn,revicsvrevjzrevnj 
wi hrevjonrunqtruhwrtcpqoeejwkrrOhrevjrhjmerfxuaj,roeriaacnnjwreirqjrevue
uxevicsvrevjrctusjrevjzrsuyjrihjruhievjnr utrevctrpnceotvruhwrohvcquh,
zjeroer utrnjuxxzrhievohsreirqj:revjtjrfjifxjrvuwrwihjrqjrhirohbcnz:revue
odrevjzrueejqfejw,rinrOrtu roerhjajttunz,rdinrqzroqqjwouejrfnjtjnyueoih,
eirduxxrcfihrevjq,rtiqjevohsrqosverpjrtuowrdinroe:rpcerevuerOr utrzjerice
idrevjonrfi jn,ruhwrevjzrnjuxxzrvuwrhir.hi xjwsjridrqj,ruhwraihtjlcjhexz
hirwjtoshrcfihrqj;ruhwrevjnjdinjroeraicxwrhierpjrbcterdinrqjreirduxxrcfih
evjq;revuerevotr icxwrbcteodzrevjraihwcaeridrevjrTfuhounwtrohruxxrevjon
punpunoeojtrfnuaeotjwrohrUqjnoau,r vjnjrevjzrwjtenizjwrqoxxoihtridrevjtj
fjifxj;r vi,rvi jyjnrevjzr jnjrowixueintruhwrpunpunouht,ruhwrvuwrtjyjnux
pxiiwzruhwrpunpunictrnoejtrohrevjonracteiqt,rtcavrutrtuanodoaohsrvcquh
piwojtreirevjonrowixt,r jnjrzje,rutreirevjrTfuhounwt,ryjnzrohhiajhe
fjifxj;ruhwrevuerevjrniieohsrevjqriceridrevjraichenzrotrtfi.jhridr oev
evjrceqiterupvinnjhajruhwrwjejteueoihrpzrjyjhrevjrTfuhounwtrevjqtjxyjtrue
evotreoqj,ruhwrpzruxxrievjnrAvnoteouhrhueoihtridrJcnifj,rutrurqjnj
pceavjnz,rurpxiiwzruhwrchhuecnuxrfojajridrancjxez,rchbcteodoupxjrjoevjn
eirSiwrinrquh;ruhwrdinr voavrevjryjnzrhuqjridrurTfuhounwrotrnja.ihjwrei
pjrdnosvedcxruhwrejnnopxj,reiruxxrfjifxjridrvcquhoezrinridrAvnoteouh
aiqfuttoih;rutrodrevjr.ohswiqridrTfuohr jnjrfuneoacxunxzrjqohjherdinrevj
fniwcajridrurnuajridrqjhr vir jnjr oevicerfnohaofxjtridrejhwjnhjtt,rin
evjraiqqihrpi jxtridrfoezreirevjrqotjnupxj,r voavrotrnja.ihjwreirpjru
qun.ridrsjhjnictrejqfjnrohrevjrqohwk

Evjtjraihtowjnueoihtrnjuxxzrfcerqjreirurfuctj,ruhwreirur.ohwridrurdcxx
teif;ruhwrOrpjsuhrpzrxoeexjruhwrxoeexjreirpjriddrqzrwjtosh,ruhwrei
aihaxcwjrOrvuwreu.jhr nihsrqjutcnjtrohrqzrnjtixceoihreirueeua.revj
tuyusjt;ruhwrevueroer utrhierqzrpctohjttreirqjwwxjr oevrevjq,rchxjttrevjz
donterueeua.jwrqj;ruhwrevotroer utrqzrpctohjtt,rodrfittopxj,reirfnjyjhe:
pcerevue,rodrOr jnjrwotaiyjnjwruhwrueeua.jwrpzrevjq,rOr.hj rqzrwcezkrrIh
evjrievjnrvuhw,rOrunscjwr oevrqztjxdrevuerevotrnjuxxzr utrevjr uzrhierei
wjxoyjnrqztjxd,rpcerjheonjxzreirncohruhwrwjtenizrqztjxd;rdinrchxjttrOr ut
tcnjreir.oxxrjyjnzrihjrevuerhierihxzrtvicxwrpjrihrtvinjruerevuereoqj,rpce
evuertvicxwrjyjnraiqjrihrtvinjrudejn unwt,rodrpcerihjridrevjqrjtaufjwrei
ejxxrevjonraichenz-fjifxjr vuervuwrvuffjhjw,revjzr icxwraiqjriyjnrusuoh
pzrevictuhwtreirnjyjhsjrevjrwjuevridrevjonrdjxxi t,ruhwrOrtvicxwrihxz
pnohsrcfihrqztjxdrurajneuohrwjtencaeoih,r voav,ruerfnjtjhe,rOrvuwrhi
quhhjnridriaautoihrdinkrrCfihrevjr vixj,rOraihaxcwjwrevuerOricsve,
hjoevjnrohrfnohaofxjrhinrohrfixoaz,rihjr uzrinrievjn,reiraihajnhrqztjxd
ohrevotrudduon:revuerqzrpctohjttr ut,rpzruxxrfittopxjrqjuhtreiraihajux
qztjxdrdniqrevjq,ruhwrhiereirxjuyjrevjrxjutertoshrdinrevjqreirscjttrpz
evuerevjnjr jnjruhzrxoyohsranjuecnjtrcfihrevjrotxuhw—Orqjuhridrvcquh
tvufjkrrNjxosoihrbiohjwrohr oevrevotrfncwjheouxrnjtixceoih;ruhwrOr ut
aihyohajwrhi ,rquhzr uzt,revuerOr utrfjndjaexzriceridrqzrwcezr vjhrOr ut
xuzohsruxxrqzrpxiiwzrtavjqjtrdinrevjrwjtencaeoihridrohhiajheranjuecnjt—O
qjuhrohhiajherutreirqjkrrUtreirevjranoqjtrevjzr jnjrscoxezridrei unwtrihj
uhievjn,rOrvuwrhievohsreirwir oevrevjq;revjzr jnjrhueoihux,ruhwrOricsve
eirxjuyjrevjqreirevjrbcteoajridrSiw,r virotrevjrSiyjnhinridrhueoiht,ruhw
.hi trvi ,rpzrhueoihuxrfchotvqjhet,reirqu.jrurbcternjenopceoihrdin
hueoihuxriddjhajt,ruhwreirpnohsrfcpxoarbcwsqjhetrcfihrevitjr viriddjhwroh
urfcpxoarquhhjn,rpzrtcavr uztrutrpjterfxjutjrVoqkrrEvotruffjunjwrtiraxjun
eirqjrhi ,revuerhievohsr utrursnjuejnrtueotduaeoihreirqjrevuhrevuerOrvuw
hierpjjhrtcddjnjwreirwirurevohsr voavrOrhi rtu rtirqcavrnjutihreirpjxojyj
 icxwrvuyjrpjjhrhirxjttrurtohrevuhrevueridr oxdcxrqcnwjnrodrOrvuw
aiqqoeejwroe;ruhwrOrsuyjrqitervcqpxjrevuh.trihrqzr.hjjtreirSiw,revuerVj
vuwrevctrwjxoyjnjwrqjrdniqrpxiiw-scoxeohjtt;rpjtjjavohsrVoqreirsnuherqj
evjrfniejaeoihridrVotrfniyowjhaj,revuerOrqosverhierduxxroheirevjrvuhwtrid
evjrpunpunouht,rinrevuerOrqosverhierxuzrqzrvuhwtrcfihrevjq,rchxjttrOrvuw
urqinjraxjunrauxxrdniqrVjuyjhreirwiroe,rohrwjdjhajridrqzri hrxodjk

OhrevotrwotfitoeoihrOraiheohcjwrdinrhjunrurzjunrudejnrevot;ruhwrtirdun
 utrOrdniqrwjtonohsruhriaautoihrdinrduxxohsrcfihrevjtjr njeavjt,revueroh
uxxrevuereoqjrOrhjyjnrihajr jhercfrevjrvoxxreirtjjr vjevjnrevjnjr jnjruhz
idrevjqrohrtosve,rinreir.hi r vjevjnruhzridrevjqrvuwrpjjhrihrtvinjrevjnj
inrhie,revuerOrqosverhierpjrejqfejwreirnjhj ruhzridrqzraihenoyuhajt
usuohterevjq,rinrpjrfniyi.jwrpzruhzruwyuheusjrevuerqosverfnjtjheroetjxd
eirduxxrcfihrevjq;rihxzrevotrOrwow:rOr jheruhwrnjqiyjwrqzrpiue,r voavrO
vuwrihrevjrievjnrtowjridrevjrotxuhw,ruhwraunnojwroerwi hreirevjrjuterjhw
idrevjr vixjrotxuhw,r vjnjrOrnuhroeroheirurxoeexjraiyj,r voavrOrdichw
chwjnrtiqjrvosvrnia.t,ruhwr vjnjrOr.hj ,rpzrnjutihridrevjracnnjhet,revj
tuyusjtrwcnterhie,ruerxjuter icxwrhie,raiqjr oevrevjonrpiuetrcfihruhz
uaaicher vuejyjnkrr oevrqzrpiuerOraunnojwru uzrjyjnzevohsrevuerOrvuwrxjde
evjnjrpjxihsohsreirvjn,revicsvrhierhjajttunzrdinrevjrpunjrsiohs
evoevjn—yogkrurquteruhwrtuoxr voavrOrvuwrquwjrdinrvjn,ruhwrurevohsrxo.j
uhruhavin,rpcer voav,rohwjjw,raicxwrhierpjrauxxjwrjoevjnruhavinrin
snufhjx;rvi jyjn,roer utrevjrpjterOraicxwrqu.jridroetr.ohw:ruxxrevjtjrO
njqiyjw,revuerevjnjrqosverhierpjrevjrxjutertvuwi rdinrwotaiyjnz,rin
uffjunuhajridruhzrpiue,rinridruhzrvcquhrvupoeueoihrcfihrevjrotxuhwk
Pjtowjtrevot,rOr.jferqztjxd,rutrOrtuow,rqinjrnjeonjwrevuhrjyjn,ruhw
tjxwiqr jherdniqrqzrajxxrjmajfercfihrqzraihteuherjqfxizqjhe,reirqox.rqz
tvj-siuet,ruhwrquhusjrqzrxoeexjrdxia.rohrevjr iiw,r voav,rutroer utrlcoej
ihrevjrievjnrfuneridrevjrotxuhw,r utriceridrwuhsjn;rdinrajneuoh,roerot
evuerevjtjrtuyusjrfjifxj,r virtiqjeoqjtrvuchejwrevotrotxuhw,rhjyjnrauqj
 oevruhzrevicsvetridrdohwohsruhzevohsrvjnj,ruhwraihtjlcjhexzrhjyjn
 uhwjnjwriddrdniqrevjraiute,ruhwrOrwicperhierpcerevjzrqosvervuyjrpjjh
tjyjnuxreoqjtrihrtvinjrudejnrqzruffnjvjhtoihtridrevjqrvuwrquwjrqj
auceoict,rutr jxxrutrpjdinjkrrOhwjjw,rOrxii.jwrpua.r oevrtiqjrvinninrcfih
evjrevicsvetridr vuerqzraihwoeoihr icxwrvuyjrpjjhrodrOrvuwraviffjwrcfih
evjqruhwrpjjhrwotaiyjnjwrpjdinjrevue;r vjh,rhu.jwruhwrchunqjw,rjmajfe
 oevrihjrsch,ruhwrevuerxiuwjwridejhrihxzr oevrtquxxrtvie,rOr ux.jw
jyjnz vjnj,rfjjfohsruhwrfjjnohsrupicerevjrotxuhw,reirtjjr vuerOraicxw
sje;r vuerurtcnfnotjrtvicxwrOrvuyjrpjjhrohrod,r vjhrOrwotaiyjnjwrevj
fnoheridrurquh’trdiie,rOrvuw,rohtejuwridrevue,rtjjhrdodejjhrinre jhez
tuyusjt,ruhwrdichwrevjqrfcntcohsrqj,ruhwrpzrevjrt odehjttridrevjon
nchhohsrhirfittopoxoezridrqzrjtaufohsrevjq!rrEvjrevicsvetridrevot
tiqjeoqjtrtuh.rqzryjnzrticxr oevohrqj,ruhwrwotenjttjwrqzrqohwrtirqcav
evuerOraicxwrhiertiihrnjaiyjnroe,reirevoh.r vuerOrtvicxwrvuyjrwihj,ruhw
vi rOrtvicxwrhierihxzrvuyjrpjjhrchupxjreirnjtoterevjq,rpcerjyjhrtvicxw
hiervuyjrvuwrfnjtjhajridrqohwrjhicsvreirwir vuerOrqosvervuyjrwihj;rqcav
xjttr vuerhi ,rudejnrtirqcavraihtowjnueoihruhwrfnjfunueoih,rOrqosverpj
upxjreirwikrrOhwjjw,rudejnrtjnoictrevoh.ohsridrevjtjrevohst,rOr icxwrpj
qjxuhavixz,ruhwrtiqjeoqjtroer icxwrxuterursnjuer voxj;rpcerOrnjtixyjwroe
uxxruerxuteroheirevuh.dcxhjttreirevuerFniyowjhajr voavrvuwrwjxoyjnjwrqj
dniqrtirquhzrchtjjhrwuhsjnt,ruhwrvuwr.jferqjrdniqrevitjrqotavojdtr voavrO
aicxwrvuyjrhir uzrpjjhrevjrusjherohrwjxoyjnohsrqztjxdrdniq,rpjauctjrOrvuw
hierevjrxjuterhieoihridruhzrtcavrevohsrwjfjhwohs,rinrevjrxjute
tcffitoeoihridroetrpjohsrfittopxjkrrEvotrnjhj jwruraihejqfxueoihr voav
idejhrvuwraiqjroheirqzrevicsvetrohrdinqjnreoqjt,r vjhrdonterOrpjsuhrei
tjjrevjrqjnaodcxrwotfitoeoihtridrVjuyjh,rohrevjrwuhsjntr jrnchrevnicsvroh
evotrxodj;rvi r ihwjndcxxzr jrunjrwjxoyjnjwr vjhr jr.hi rhievohsridroe;
vi ,r vjhr jrunjrohrurlcuhwunzrutr jrauxxroe,rurwicperinrvjtoeueoih
 vjevjnreirsirevotr uzrinrevuer uz,rurtjanjervohertvuxxrwonjaerctrevot
 uz,r vjhr jrohejhwjwreirsirevuer uz:rhuz,r vjhrtjhtj,ricnri h
ohaxohueoih,ruhwrfjnvuftrpctohjttrvutrauxxjwrctreirsirevjrievjnr uz,rzje
urtenuhsjroqfnjttoihrcfihrevjrqohw,rdniqr jr.hi rhier vuertfnohst,ruhwrpz
 jr.hi rhier vuerfi jn,rtvuxxriyjnncxjrctreirsirevotr uz;ruhwroertvuxx
udejn unwtruffjunrevuervuwr jrsihjrevuer uz,r voavr jrtvicxwrvuyjrsihj,
uhwrjyjhreiricnroqusohueoihricsvereirvuyjrsihj,r jrtvicxwrvuyjrpjjh
ncohjwruhwrxitekrrCfihrevjtjruhwrquhzrxo.jrnjdxjaeoihtrOrudejn unwtrquwj
oerurajneuohrncxjr oevrqj,revuer vjhjyjnrOrdichwrevitjrtjanjervohetrin
fnjttohstridrqohwreirwiohsrinrhierwiohsruhzevohsrevuerfnjtjhejw,rinrsiohs
evotr uzrinrevuer uz,rOrhjyjnrduoxjwreiripjzrevjrtjanjerwoaeuej;revicsvrO
.hj rhirievjnrnjutihrdinroerevuhrtcavrurfnjttcnjrinrtcavrurvohervchsrcfih
qzrqohwkrrOraicxwrsoyjrquhzrjmuqfxjtridrevjrtcaajttridrevotraihwcaeroh
evjraicntjridrqzrxodj,rpcerqinjrjtfjaouxxzrohrevjrxueejnrfuneridrqz
ohvupoeohsrevotrchvuffzrotxuhw;rpjtowjtrquhzriaautoihtr voavroerotryjnz
xo.jxzrOrqosvervuyjreu.jhrhieoajrid,rodrOrvuwrtjjhr oevrevjrtuqjrjzjt
evjhrevuerOrtjjr oevrhi krrPceroerotrhjyjnreiirxuejreirpjr otj;ruhwrO
auhhierpceruwyotjruxxraihtowjnohsrqjh,r vitjrxoyjtrunjrueejhwjwr oevrtcav
jmenuinwohunzrohaowjhetrutrqohj,rinrjyjhrevicsvrhiertirjmenuinwohunz,rhie
eirtxosvertcavrtjanjeroheoqueoihtridrFniyowjhaj,rxjerevjqraiqjrdniqr vue
ohyotopxjrohejxxosjhajrevjzr oxxkrrEvuerOrtvuxxrhierwotactt,ruhwrfjnvuft
auhhieruaaicherdin;rpcerajneuohxzrevjzrunjrurfniidridrevjraihyjntjrid
tfonoet,ruhwrurtjanjeraiqqchoaueoihrpje jjhrevitjrjqpiwojwruhwrevitj
chjqpiwojw,ruhwrtcavrurfniidrutrauhrhjyjnrpjr oevteiiw;ridr voavrOrtvuxx
vuyjriaautoihreirsoyjrtiqjrnjqun.upxjrohteuhajtrohrevjrnjquohwjnridrqz
tixoeunzrnjtowjhajrohrevotrwotquxrfxuajk

Orpjxojyjrevjrnjuwjnridrevotr oxxrhierevoh.roertenuhsjrodrOraihdjttrevue
evjtjruhmojeojt,revjtjraihteuherwuhsjntrOrxoyjwroh,ruhwrevjraihajnhrevue
 utrhi rcfihrqj,rfceruhrjhwreiruxxrohyjheoih,ruhwreiruxxrevjraihenoyuhajt
evuerOrvuwrxuowrdinrqzrdcecnjruaaiqqiwueoihtruhwraihyjhojhajtkrrOrvuwrevj
aunjridrqzrtudjezrqinjrhi rcfihrqzrvuhwtrevuhrevueridrqzrdiiwkrrOraunjw
hiereirwnoyjrurhuox,rinravifrurteoa.ridr iiwrhi ,rdinrdjunrevjrhiotjrO
qosverqu.jrtvicxwrpjrvjunw:rqcavrxjttr icxwrOrdonjrurschrdinrevjrtuqj
njutih:ruhwrupiyjruxxrOr utroheixjnupxzrchjutzruerqu.ohsruhzrdonj,rxjte
evjrtqi.j,r voavrotryotopxjruerursnjuerwoteuhajrohrevjrwuz,rtvicxwrpjenuz
qjkrrDinrevotrnjutih,rOrnjqiyjwrevuerfuneridrqzrpctohjttr voavrnjlconjw
donj,rtcavrutrpcnhohsridrfietruhwrfofjt,r&ak,roheirqzrhj rufuneqjheroh
evjr iiwt;r vjnj,rudejnrOrvuwrpjjhrtiqjreoqj,rOrdichw,reirqzrchtfju.upxj
aihtixueoih,rurqjnjrhuecnuxrauyjrohrevjrjunev,r voavr jherohruryuter uz,
uhwr vjnj,rOrwunjtuz,rhirtuyusj,rvuwrvjrpjjhruerevjrqicevridroe,r icxwrpj
tirvunwzrutreiryjhecnjroh;rhin,rohwjjw,r icxwruhzrquhrjxtj,rpcerihjr vi,
xo.jrqj,r uhejwrhievohsrtirqcavrutrurtudjrnjenjuek

Evjrqicevridrevotrvixxi r utruerevjrpieeiqridrursnjuernia.,r vjnj,rpz
qjnjruaaowjher(Or icxwrtuz,rodrOrwowrhiertjjrupchwuhernjutihreirutanopj
uxxrtcavrevohstrhi reirFniyowjhaj),rOr utraceeohsrwi hrtiqjrevoa.
pnuhavjtridrenjjtreirqu.jravunaiux;ruhwrpjdinjrOrsirihrOrqcteriptjnyjrevj
njutihridrqzrqu.ohsrevotravunaiux,r voavr utrevot—Or utrudnuowridrqu.ohs
urtqi.jrupicerqzrvupoeueoih,rutrOrtuowrpjdinj;ruhwrzjerOraicxwrhierxoyj
evjnjr oevicerpu.ohsrqzrpnjuw,raii.ohsrqzrqjue,r&ak;rtirOraihenoyjwrei
pcnhrtiqjr iiwrvjnj,rutrOrvuwrtjjhrwihjrohrJhsxuhw,rchwjnrecnd,reoxxroe
pjauqjravun.rinrwnzraiux:ruhwrevjhrfceeohsrevjrdonjrice,rOrfnjtjnyjwrevj
aiuxreiraunnzrviqj,ruhwrfjndinqrevjrievjnrtjnyoajtrdinr voavrdonjr ut
 uheohs,r oevicerwuhsjnridrtqi.jkrrPcerevotrotrpz-evj-pzjkrr voxjrOr ut
aceeohsrwi hrtiqjr iiwrvjnj,rOrfjnajoyjwrevue,rpjvohwruryjnzrevoa.rpnuhav
idrxi rpnctv iiwrinrchwjn iiw,revjnjr utrur.ohwridrvixxi rfxuaj:rOr ut
acnoictreirxii.rohroe;ruhwrsjeeohsr oevrwoddoacxezroheirevjrqicevridroe,
Ordichwroer utrfnjeezrxunsj,revuerotreirtuz,rtcddoaojherdinrqjreirteuhw
cfnosverohroe,ruhwrfjnvuftruhievjnr oevrqj:rpcerOrqcteraihdjttreirzic
evuerOrquwjrqinjrvutejricerevuhrOrwowroh,r vjhrxii.ohsrdunevjnroheirevj
fxuaj,ruhwr voavr utrfjndjaexzrwun.,rOrtu re irpniuwrtvohohsrjzjtridrtiqj
anjuecnj,r vjevjnrwjyoxrinrquhrOr.hj rhie,r voavre oh.xjwrxo.jre irteunt;
evjrwoqrxosverdniqrevjrauyj’trqicevrtvohohsrwonjaexzroh,ruhwrqu.ohsrevj
njdxjaeoihkrrVi jyjn,rudejnrtiqjrfuctjrOrnjaiyjnjwrqztjxd,ruhwrpjsuhrei
auxxrqztjxdrurevictuhwrdiixt,ruhwreirevoh.revuervjrevuer utrudnuowreirtjj
evjrwjyoxr utrhierdoereirxoyjre jhezrzjuntrohruhrotxuhwruxxruxihj;ruhw
evuerOrqosver jxxrevoh.revjnjr utrhievohsrohrevotrauyjrevuer utrqinj
dnosvedcxrevuhrqztjxdkrrCfihrevot,rfxca.ohsrcfrqzraicnusj,rOreii.rcfru
donjpnuhw,ruhwrohrOrnctvjwrusuoh,r oevrevjrteoa.rdxuqohsrohrqzrvuhw:rO
vuwrhiersihjrevnjjrtejftrohrpjdinjrOr utruxqiterutrdnosvejhjwrutrpjdinj;
dinrOrvjunwruryjnzrxicwrtosv,rxo.jrevueridrurquhrohrtiqjrfuoh,ruhwroer ut
dixxi jwrpzrurpni.jhrhiotj,rutridr inwtrvuxdrjmfnjttjw,ruhwrevjhrurwjjf
tosvrusuohkrrOrtejffjwrpua.,ruhwr utrohwjjwrtenca.r oevrtcavrurtcnfnotj
evueroerfcerqjroheiruraixwrt jue,ruhwrodrOrvuwrvuwrurvuerihrqzrvjuw,rO
 oxxrhieruht jnrdinroerevuerqzrvuonrqosverhiervuyjrxodejwroeriddkrrPce
teoxxrfxca.ohsrcfrqzrtfonoetrutr jxxrutrOraicxw,ruhwrjhaicnusohsrqztjxdru
xoeexjr oevraihtowjnohsrevuerevjrfi jnruhwrfnjtjhajridrSiwr ut
jyjnz vjnj,ruhwr utrupxjreirfniejaerqj,rOrtejffjwrdin unwrusuoh,ruhwrpz
evjrxosveridrevjrdonjpnuhw,rvixwohsroercfrurxoeexjriyjnrqzrvjuw,rOrtu 
xzohsrihrevjrsnichwrurqihtenict,rdnosvedcxrixwrvj-siue,rbcterqu.ohsrvot
 oxx,rutr jrtuz,ruhwrsutfohsrdinrxodj,ruhw,rwzohs,rohwjjw,ridrqjnjrixw
usjkrrOrteonnjwrvoqrurxoeexjreirtjjrodrOraicxwrsjervoqrice,ruhwrvj
jttuzjwreirsjercf,rpcer utrhierupxjreirnuotjrvoqtjxd;ruhwrOrevicsver oev
qztjxdrvjrqosverjyjhrxojrevjnj—dinrodrvjrvuwrdnosvejhjwrqj,rtirvjr icxw
ajneuohxzrdnosveruhzridrevjrtuyusjt,rodruhzridrevjqrtvicxwrpjrtirvunwzrut
eiraiqjrohrevjnjr voxjrvjrvuwruhzrxodjrohrvoqk

Or utrhi rnjaiyjnjwrdniqrqzrtcnfnotj,ruhwrpjsuhreirxii.rnichwrqj,r vjhrO
dichwrevjrauyjr utrpceryjnzrtquxx—evuerotreirtuz,roerqosverpjrupice
e jxyjrdjjeriyjn,rpcerohrhirquhhjnridrtvufj,rhjoevjnrnichwrhinrtlcunj,rhi
vuhwtrvuyohsrjyjnrpjjhrjqfxizjwrohrqu.ohsroerpcerevitjridrqjnjrHuecnjkrrO
iptjnyjwruxtirevuerevjnjr utrurfxuajruerevjrdunevjnrtowjridroerevuer jhe
ohrdcnevjn,rpcer utrtirxi revueroernjlconjwrqjreiranjjfrcfihrqzrvuhwtruhw
.hjjtreirsiroheiroe,ruhwr voevjnroer jherOr.hj rhie;rti,rvuyohsrhi
auhwxj,rOrsuyjroeriyjnrdinrevuereoqj,rpcernjtixyjwreirsirusuohrevjrhjme
wuzrfniyowjwr oevrauhwxjtruhwrureohwjn-pim,r voavrOrvuwrquwjridrevjrxia.
idrihjridrevjrqct.jet,r oevrtiqjr oxwdonjrohrevjrfuhk

Uaainwohsxz,revjrhjmerwuzrOrauqjrfniyowjwr oevrtomrxunsjrauhwxjtridrqz
i hrqu.ohsr(dinrOrquwjryjnzrsiiwrauhwxjtrhi ridrsiue’treuxxi ,rpcer ut
vunwrtjerdinrauhwxj- oa.,rctohsrtiqjeoqjtrnustrinrnifj-zunh,ruhw
tiqjeoqjtrevjrwnojwrnohwridrur jjwrxo.jrhjeexjt);ruhwrsiohsroheirevotrxi 
fxuajrOr utripxosjwreiranjjfrcfihruxx-dicntrutrOrvuyjrtuow,ruxqiterejh
zunwt— voav,rpzrevjr uz,rOrevicsver utruryjhecnjrpixwrjhicsv,raihtowjnohs
evuerOr.hj rhiervi rdunroerqosversi,rhinr vuer utrpjzihwroekrr vjhrOrvuw
sierevnicsvrevjrtenuoe,rOrdichwrevjrniidrnitjrvosvjnrcf,rOrpjxojyjrhjun
e jhezrdjje;rpcerhjyjnr utrtcavrursxinoictrtosvertjjhrohrevjrotxuhw,rO
wunjtuz,rutroer utreirxii.rnichwrevjrtowjtruhwrniidridrevotryucxerin
auyj—evjr uxxrnjdxjaejwrurvchwnjwrevictuhwrxosvetreirqjrdniqrqzre i
auhwxjtkrr vueroer utrohrevjrnia.— vjevjnrwouqihwtrinruhzrievjnrfnjaoict
teihjt,rinrsixwr voavrOrnuevjnrtcffitjwroereirpj—Or.hj rhiekrrEvjrfxuajrO
 utrohr utrurqiterwjxosvedcxrauyoez,rinrsnieei,revicsvrfjndjaexzrwun.;
evjrdxiinr utrwnzruhwrxjyjx,ruhwrvuwrurtineridrurtquxxrxiitjrsnuyjxrcfih
oe,rtirevuerevjnjr utrhirhuctjictrinryjhiqictranjuecnjreirpjrtjjh,
hjoevjnr utrevjnjruhzrwuqfrinr jerihrevjrtowjtrinrniidkrrEvjrihxz
woddoacxezrohroer utrevjrjhenuhaj— voav,rvi jyjn,rutroer utrurfxuajrid
tjacnoez,ruhwrtcavrurnjenjuerutrOr uhejw;rOrevicsver utruraihyjhojhaj;rti
evuerOr utrnjuxxzrnjbioajwruerevjrwotaiyjnz,ruhwrnjtixyjw,r oeviceruhz
wjxuz,reirpnohsrtiqjridrevitjrevohstr voavrOr utrqiteruhmoictrupicerei
evotrfxuaj:rfuneoacxunxz,rOrnjtixyjwreirpnohsrvoevjnrqzrqusugohjrid
fi wjn,ruhwruxxrqzrtfunjrunqt—yogkre irdi xohs-fojajt—dinrOrvuwrevnjjroh
uxx—uhwrevnjjrqct.jet—dinridrevjqrOrvuwrjosverohruxx;rtirOr.jferohrqz
autexjrihxzrdoyj,r voavrteiiwrnjuwzrqichejwrxo.jrfojajtridrauhhihrihrqz
iceqiterdjhaj,ruhwr jnjrnjuwzruxtireireu.jricercfihruhzrjmfjwoeoihkrrCfih
evotriaautoihridrnjqiyohsrqzruqqchoeoihrOrvuffjhjwreirifjhrevjrpunnjxrid
fi wjnr voavrOreii.rcfriceridrevjrtju,ruhwr voavrvuwrpjjhr je,ruhwrO
dichwrevuerevjr uejnrvuwrfjhjenuejwrupicerevnjjrinrdicnrohavjtroheirevj
fi wjnrihrjyjnzrtowj,r voavrau.ohsruhwrsni ohsrvunw,rvuwrfnjtjnyjwrevj
ohtowjrxo.jrur.jnhjxrohrevjrtvjxx,rtirevuerOrvuwrhjunrtomezrfichwtrid
yjnzrsiiwrfi wjnrohrevjrajhenjridrevjraut.krrEvotr utruryjnzrusnjjupxj
wotaiyjnzreirqjruerevuereoqj;rtirOraunnojwruxxru uzrevoevjn,rhjyjn
.jjfohsrupiyjre irinrevnjjrfichwtridrfi wjnr oevrqjrohrqzrautexj,rdin
djunridrurtcnfnotjridruhzr.ohw;rOruxtiraunnojwrevoevjnruxxrevjrxjuwrOrvuw
xjderdinrpcxxjetk

Orduhaojwrqztjxdrhi rxo.jrihjridrevjruhaojhersouhetr vir jnjrtuowreirxoyj
ohrauyjtruhwrvixjtrohrevjrnia.t,r vjnjrhihjraicxwraiqjruerevjq;rdinrO
fjntcuwjwrqztjxd,r voxjrOr utrvjnj,revuerodrdoyjrvchwnjwrtuyusjtr jnjrei
vcherqj,revjzraicxwrhjyjnrdohwrqjrice—inrodrevjzrwow,revjzr icxwrhie
yjhecnjreirueeua.rqjrvjnjkrrEvjrixwrsiuer viqrOrdichwrjmfonohsrwojwroh
evjrqicevridrevjrauyjrevjrhjmerwuzrudejnrOrquwjrevotrwotaiyjnz;ruhwrO
dichwroerqcavrjutojnreirwosrursnjuervixjrevjnj,ruhwrevni rvoqrohruhw
aiyjnrvoqr oevrjunev,revuhreirwnusrvoqrice;rtirOrohejnnjwrvoqrevjnj,rei
fnjyjheriddjhajreirqzrhitjk




AVUFEJNrMOOO— NJA.rIDrUrTFUHOTVrTVOF


Or utrhi rohrevjre jhez-evonwrzjunridrqzrnjtowjhajrohrevotrotxuhw,ruhw
 utrtirhuecnuxotjwreirevjrfxuajruhwrevjrquhhjnridrxoyohs,revue,raicxwrO
pcervuyjrjhbizjwrevjrajneuohezrevuerhirtuyusjtr icxwraiqjreirevjrfxuajrei
wotecnprqj,rOraicxwrvuyjrpjjhraihejhereirvuyjraufoecxuejwrdinrtfjhwohs
evjrnjteridrqzreoqjrevjnj,rjyjhreirevjrxuterqiqjhe,reoxxrOrvuwrxuowrqj
wi hruhwrwojw,rxo.jrevjrixwrsiuerohrevjrauyjkrrOrvuwruxtirunnoyjwreirtiqj
xoeexjrwoyjntoihtruhwruqctjqjhet,r voavrquwjrevjreoqjrfuttrursnjuerwjux
qinjrfxjutuhexzr oevrqjrevuhroerwowrpjdinj—donte,rOrvuwreucsverqzrFixx,
utrOrhiejwrpjdinj,reirtfju.;ruhwrvjrwowroertirduqoxounxz,ruhwreux.jwrti
uneoacxuejxzruhwrfxuoh,revueroer utryjnzrfxjutuhereirqj;ruhwrvjrxoyjw
 oevrqjrhirxjttrevuhrtom-uhw-e jhezrzjuntkrrVi rxihsrvjrqosvervuyjrxoyjw
udejn unwtrOr.hi rhie,revicsvrOr.hi revjzrvuyjrurhieoihrohrevjrPnugoxt
evuerevjzrxoyjrurvchwnjwrzjuntkrrQzrwisr utrurfxjutuheruhwrxiyohs
aiqfuhoihreirqjrdinrhirxjttrevuhrtomejjhrzjuntridrqzreoqj,ruhwrevjhrwojw
idrqjnjrixwrusjkrrUtrdinrqzrauet,revjzrqcxeofxojw,rutrOrvuyjriptjnyjw,rei
evuerwjsnjjrevuerOr utripxosjwreirtviiertjyjnuxridrevjqruerdonte,reir.jjf
evjqrdniqrwjyicnohsrqjruhwruxxrOrvuw;rpceruerxjhsev,r vjhrevjre irixw
ihjtrOrpnicsver oevrqjr jnjrsihj,ruhwrudejnrtiqjreoqjraiheohcuxxzrwnoyohs
evjqrdniqrqj,ruhwrxjeeohsrevjqrvuyjrhirfniyotoihr oevrqj,revjzruxxrnuh
 oxwroheirevjr iiwt,rjmajfere irinrevnjjrduyicnoejt,r voavrOr.jfereuqj,
uhwr vitjrzichs,r vjhrevjzrvuwruhz,rOrux uztrwni hjw;ruhwrevjtjr jnjrfune
idrqzrduqoxzkrrPjtowjtrevjtjrOrux uztr.jfere irinrevnjjrvictjvixwr.owt
upicerqj,r viqrOreucsvereirdjjwriceridrqzrvuhw;ruhwrOrvuwre irqinj
funniet,r voavreux.jwrfnjeezr jxx,ruhwr icxwruxxrauxxr“NipohrAnctij,”rpce
hihjrxo.jrqzrdonte;rhin,rohwjjw,rwowrOreu.jrevjrfuohtr oevruhzridrevjq
evuerOrvuwrwihjr oevrvoqkrrOrvuwruxtirtjyjnuxreuqjrtju-di xt,r vitjrhuqj
Or.hj rhie,revuerOraucsvercfihrevjrtvinj,ruhwracerevjonr ohst;ruhwrevj
xoeexjrteu.jtr voavrOrvuwrfxuhejwrpjdinjrqzrautexj- uxxrpjohsrhi rsni h
cfreirursiiwrevoa.rsniyj,revjtjrdi xtruxxrxoyjwruqihsrevjtjrxi renjjt,
uhwrpnjwrevjnj,r voavr utryjnzrusnjjupxjreirqj;rtirevue,rutrOrtuowrupiyj,
Orpjsuhreirpjryjnzr jxxraihejhejwr oevrevjrxodjrOrxjw,rodrOraicxwrvuyj
pjjhrtjacnjwrdniqrevjrwnjuwridrevjrtuyusjtkrrPceroer utrievjn otj
wonjaejw;ruhwroerquzrhierpjruqottrdinruxxrfjifxjr virtvuxxrqjjer oevrqz
teinzreirqu.jrevotrbcteriptjnyueoihrdniqroe:rVi rdnjlcjhexz,rohrevj
aicntjridricnrxoyjt,revjrjyoxr voavrohroetjxdr jrtjj.rqitereirtvch,ruhw
 voav,r vjhr jrunjrduxxjhrohei,rotrevjrqiterwnjuwdcxreirct,rotridejheoqjt
evjryjnzrqjuhtrinrwiinridricnrwjxoyjnuhaj,rpzr voavruxihjr jrauhrpj
nuotjwrusuohrdniqrevjruddxoaeoihr jrunjrduxxjhroheikrrOraicxwrsoyjrquhz
jmuqfxjtridrevotrohrevjraicntjridrqzrchuaaicheupxjrxodj;rpcerohrhievohs
 utroerqinjrfuneoacxunxzrnjqun.upxjrevuhrohrevjraonacqteuhajtridrqzrxute
zjuntridrtixoeunzrnjtowjhajrohrevotrotxuhwk

Oer utrhi revjrqihevridrWjajqpjn,rutrOrtuowrupiyj,rohrqzre jhez-evonw
zjun;ruhwrevot,rpjohsrevjrticevjnhrtixteoajr(dinr ohejnrOrauhhierauxx
oe),r utrevjrfuneoacxunreoqjridrqzrvunyjte,ruhwrnjlconjwrqjreirpjrfnjeez
qcavrupniuwrohrevjrdojxwt,r vjh,rsiohsricerjunxzrohrevjrqinhohs,rjyjh
pjdinjroer utrevinicsvrwuzxosve,rOr utrtcnfnotjwr oevrtjjohsrurxosverid
tiqjrdonjrcfihrevjrtvinj,ruerurwoteuhajrdniqrqjridrupicere irqoxjt,
ei unwrevuerfuneridrevjrotxuhwr vjnjrOrvuwriptjnyjwrtiqjrtuyusjtrvuw
pjjh,rutrpjdinj,ruhwrhierihrevjrievjnrtowj;rpce,reirqzrsnjueruddxoaeoih,
oer utrihrqzrtowjridrevjrotxuhwk

Or utrohwjjwrejnnopxzrtcnfnotjwruerevjrtosve,ruhwrteiffjwrtviner oevohrqz
sniyj,rhierwunohsreirsirice,rxjterOrqosverpjrtcnfnotjw;ruhwrzjerOrvuwrhi
qinjrfjuajr oevoh,rdniqrevjruffnjvjhtoihtrOrvuwrevuerodrevjtjrtuyusjt,roh
nuqpxohsriyjnrevjrotxuhw,rtvicxwrdohwrqzrainhrteuhwohsrinrace,rinruhzrid
qzr in.trinroqfniyjqjhet,revjzr icxwroqqjwouejxzraihaxcwjrevuerevjnjr jnj
fjifxjrohrevjrfxuaj,ruhwr icxwrevjhrhjyjnrnjtereoxxrevjzrvuwrdichwrqj
icekrrOhrevotrjmenjqoezrOr jherpua.rwonjaexzreirqzrautexj,rfcxxjwrcfrevj
xuwwjnrudejnrqj,ruhwrquwjruxxrevohstr oevicerxii.rutr oxwruhwrhuecnuxrut
Oraicxwk

EvjhrOrfnjfunjwrqztjxdr oevoh,rfceeohsrqztjxdrohrurfitecnjridrwjdjhajkrrO
xiuwjwruxxrqzrauhhih,rutrOrauxxjwrevjq—evuerotreirtuz,rqzrqct.jet,r voav
 jnjrqichejwrcfihrqzrhj rdineodoaueoih—uhwruxxrqzrfoteixt,ruhwrnjtixyjw
eirwjdjhwrqztjxdreirevjrxutersutf—hierdinsjeeohsrtjnoictxzreiraiqqjhw
qztjxdreirevjrWoyohjrfniejaeoih,ruhwrjunhjtexzreirfnuzreirSiwreirwjxoyjn
qjriceridrevjrvuhwtridrevjrpunpunouhtkrrOraiheohcjwrohrevotrfitecnjrupice
e irvicnt,ruhwrpjsuhreirpjroqfueojherdinrohejxxosjhajrupniuw,rdinrOrvuw
hirtfojtreirtjhwricekrrUdejnrtoeeohsrur voxjrxihsjn,ruhwrqctohsr vuerO
tvicxwrwirohrevotrautj,rOr utrhierupxjreirpjunrtoeeohsrohroshinuhaj
xihsjn;rtirtjeeohsrcfrqzrxuwwjnreirevjrtowjridrevjrvoxx,r vjnjrevjnjr ut
urdxuerfxuaj,rutrOriptjnyjwrpjdinj,ruhwrevjhrfcxxohsrevjrxuwwjnrudejnrqj,
Ortjeroercfrusuohruhwrqichejwrevjreifridrevjrvoxx,ruhwrfcxxohsricerqz
fjntfjaeoyjrsxutt,r voavrOrvuwreu.jhrihrfcnfitj,rOrxuowrqjrwi hrdxuerih
qzrpjxxzrihrevjrsnichw,ruhwrpjsuhreirxii.rdinrevjrfxuajkrrOrfnjtjhexz
dichwrevjnjr jnjrhirxjttrevuhrhohjrhu.jwrtuyusjtrtoeeohsrnichwrurtquxx
donjrevjzrvuwrquwj,rhiereir unqrevjq,rdinrevjzrvuwrhirhjjwridrevue,revj
 juevjnrpjohsrjmenjqjxzrvie,rpce,rutrOrtcffitjw,reirwnjttrtiqjridrevjon
punpunictrwojeridrvcquhrdxjtvr voavrevjzrvuwrpnicsver oevrevjq,r vjevjn
uxoyjrinrwjuwrOraicxwrhierejxxk

Evjzrvuwre irauhijtr oevrevjq,r voavrevjzrvuwrvucxjwrcfrcfihrevjrtvinj;
uhwrutroer utrevjhrjppridreowj,revjzrtjjqjwreirqjreir uoerdinrevjrnjecnh
idrevjrdxiiwreirsiru uzrusuohkrrOerotrhierjutzreiroqusohjr vueraihdctoih
evotrtosverfcerqjrohei,rjtfjaouxxzrtjjohsrevjqraiqjrihrqzrtowjridrevj
otxuhw,ruhwrtirhjunreirqj;rpcer vjhrOraihtowjnjwrevjonraiqohsrqcterpj
ux uztr oevrevjracnnjheridrevjrjpp,rOrpjsuhrudejn unwtreirpjrqinjrtjwuej
ohrqzrqohw,rpjohsrtueotdojwrevuerOrqosversirupniuwr oevrtudjezruxxrevj
eoqjridrevjrdxiiwridreowj,rodrevjzr jnjrhierihrtvinjrpjdinj;ruhwrvuyohs
quwjrevotriptjnyueoih,rOr jherupniuwrupicerqzrvunyjter in.r oevrevjrqinj
aiqfitcnjk

UtrOrjmfjaejw,rtiroerfniyjw;rdinrutrtiihrutrevjreowjrquwjreirevjr jte unw
Ortu revjqruxxreu.jrpiueruhwrni r(inrfuwwxjrutr jrauxxroe)ru uzkrrO
tvicxwrvuyjriptjnyjw,revuerdinruhrvicnrinrqinjrpjdinjrevjzr jheriddrevjz
 jnjrwuhaohs,ruhwrOraicxwrjutoxzrwotajnhrevjonrfitecnjtruhwrsjtecnjtrpz
qzrsxuttkrrOraicxwrhierfjnajoyj,rpzrqzrhoajteriptjnyueoih,rpcerevuerevjz
 jnjrteun.rhu.jw,ruhwrvuwrhierevjrxjuteraiyjnohsrcfihrevjq;rpcer vjevjn
evjzr jnjrqjhrinr iqjhrOraicxwrhierwoteohscotvk

UtrtiihrutrOrtu revjqrtvoffjwruhwrsihj,rOreii.re irschtrcfihrqz
tvicxwjnt,ruhwre irfoteixtrohrqzrsonwxj,ruhwrqzrsnjuert inwrpzrqzrtowj
 oevicerurtauppunw,ruhwr oevruxxrevjrtfjjwrOr utrupxjreirqu.jr jheru uz
eirevjrvoxxr vjnjrOrvuwrwotaiyjnjwrevjrdonteruffjunuhajridruxx;ruhwrut
tiihrutrOrsierevoevjn,r voavr utrhierohrxjttrevuhre irvicntr(dinrOraicxw
hiersirlcoa.xz,rpjohsrtirxiuwjwr oevrunqtrutrOr ut),rOrfjnajoyjwrevjnj
vuwrpjjhrevnjjrauhijtrqinjridrevjrtuyusjtruerevuerfxuaj;ruhwrxii.ohsrice
dunevjn,rOrtu revjzr jnjruxxruertjureisjevjn,rqu.ohsriyjnrdinrevjrquohk
Evotr utrurwnjuwdcxrtosvereirqj,rjtfjaouxxzrut,rsiohsrwi hreirevjrtvinj,
Oraicxwrtjjrevjrqun.tridrvinninr voavrevjrwotquxr in.revjzrvuwrpjjhrupice
vuwrxjderpjvohwroe—yogkrevjrpxiiw,revjrpihjt,ruhwrfuneridrevjrdxjtvrid
vcquhrpiwojtrjuejhruhwrwjyicnjwrpzrevitjr njeavjtr oevrqjnnoqjheruhw
tfinekrrOr utrtirdoxxjwr oevrohwoshueoihruerevjrtosve,revuerOrhi rpjsuh
eirfnjqjwoeuejrevjrwjtencaeoihridrevjrhjmerevuerOrtu revjnj,rxjerevjqrpj
 viqrinrvi rquhzrtijyjnkrrOertjjqjwrjyowjhereirqjrevuerevjryotoetr voav
evjzrquwjrevctreirevotrotxuhwr jnjrhieryjnzrdnjlcjhe,rdinroer utrupiyj
dodejjhrqihevtrpjdinjruhzrqinjridrevjqrauqjrihrtvinjrevjnjrusuoh—evuerot
eirtuz,rOrhjoevjnrtu revjqrhinruhzrdiietejftrinrtoshuxtridrevjqrohruxx
evuereoqj;rdinrutreirevjrnuohzrtjutiht,revjhrevjzrunjrtcnjrhiereiraiqj
upniuw,ruerxjuterhiertirdunkrrZjeruxxrevotr voxjrOrxoyjwrchaiqdineupxz,
pzrnjutihridrevjraihteuheruffnjvjhtoihtridrevjonraiqohsrcfihrqjrpz
tcnfnotj:rdniqr vjhajrOriptjnyj,revuerevjrjmfjaeueoihridrjyoxrotrqinj
poeejnrevuhrevjrtcddjnohs,rjtfjaouxxzrodrevjnjrotrhirniiqreirtvu.jridd
evuerjmfjaeueoihrinrevitjruffnjvjhtoihtk

WcnohsruxxrevotreoqjrOr utrohrurqcnwjnohsrvcqicn,ruhwrtfjherqiteridrqz
vicnt,r voavrtvicxwrvuyjrpjjhrpjeejnrjqfxizjw,rohraihenoyohsrvi rei
aonacqyjheruhwrduxxrcfihrevjqrevjryjnzrhjmereoqjrOrtvicxwrtjj
evjq—jtfjaouxxzrodrevjzrtvicxwrpjrwoyowjw,rutrevjzr jnjrevjrxutereoqj,
oheire irfuneojt;rhinrwowrOraihtowjnrueruxxrevuerodrOr.oxxjwrihj
funez—tcffitjrejhrinrurwigjh—Or utrteoxxrevjrhjmerwuz,rinr jj.,rinrqihev,
eir.oxxruhievjn,ruhwrtiruhievjn,rjyjhr_uwrohdohoecq_,reoxxrOrtvicxwrpj,
uerxjhsev,rhirxjttrurqcnwjnjnrevuhrevjzr jnjrohrpjohsrquh-juejnt—uhw
fjnvuftrqcavrqinjrtikrrOrtfjherqzrwuztrhi rohrsnjuerfjnfxjmoezruhw
uhmojezridrqohw,rjmfjaeohsrevuerOrtvicxwrihjrwuzrinrievjnrduxxroheirevj
vuhwtridrevjtjrqjnaoxjttranjuecnjt;ruhwrodrOrwowrueruhzreoqjryjhecnj
upniuw,roer utrhier oevicerxii.ohsrunichwrqjr oevrevjrsnjuejteraunjruhw
auceoihroqusohupxjkrrUhwrhi rOrdichw,reirqzrsnjueraiqdine,rvi rvuffzroe
 utrevuerOrvuwrfniyowjwrureuqjrdxia.rinrvjnwridrsiuet,rdinrOrwcnterhie
cfihruhzruaaicherdonjrqzrsch,rjtfjaouxxzrhjunrevuertowjridrevjrotxuhw
 vjnjrevjzrctcuxxzrauqj,rxjterOrtvicxwruxunqrevjrtuyusjt;ruhwrodrevjzrvuw
dxjwrdniqrqjrhi ,rOr utrtcnjreirvuyjrevjqraiqjrusuohr oevrfjnvuftre irin
evnjjrvchwnjwrauhijtr oevrevjqrohrurdj rwuzt,ruhwrevjhrOr.hj r vuerei
jmfjaekrrVi jyjn,rOr injricerurzjunruhwrevnjjrqihevtrqinjrpjdinjrOrjyjn
tu ruhzrqinjridrevjrtuyusjt,ruhwrevjhrOrdichwrevjqrusuoh,rutrOrtvuxxrtiih
iptjnyjkrrOerotrencjrevjzrqosvervuyjrpjjhrevjnjrihajrinre oaj;rpcerjoevjn
evjzrquwjrhirteuz,rinruerxjuterOrwowrhiertjjrevjq;rpcerohrevjrqihevrid
Quz,rutrhjunrutrOraicxwrauxacxuej,ruhwrohrqzrdicn-uhw-e jheojevrzjun,rO
vuwruryjnzrtenuhsjrjhaichejnr oevrevjq;ridr voavrohroetrfxuajk

Evjrfjnecnpueoihridrqzrqohwrwcnohsrevotrdodejjhrinrtomejjhrqihevt’
ohejnyuxr utryjnzrsnjue;rOrtxjferchlcojexz,rwnjuqjwrux uztrdnosvedcx
wnjuqt,ruhwridejhrteunejwriceridrqzrtxjjfrohrevjrhosvekrrOhrevjrwuzrsnjue
enicpxjtriyjn vjxqjwrqzrqohw;ruhwrohrevjrhosverOrwnjuqjwridejhridr.oxxohs
evjrtuyusjtruhwridrevjrnjutihtr vzrOrqosverbcteodzrwiohsroek

Pcereir uoyjruxxrevotrdinrur voxjkrrOer utrohrevjrqowwxjridrQuz,rihrevj
tomejjhevrwuz,rOrevoh.,rutr jxxrutrqzrfiinr iiwjhrauxjhwunr icxwrnja.ih,
dinrOrqun.jwruxxrcfihrevjrfiterteoxx;rOrtuz,roer utrihrevjrtomejjhevrid
Quzrevueroerpxj ruryjnzrsnjuerteinqridr ohwruxxrwuz,r oevrursnjuerwjuxrid
xosvehohsruhwrevchwjn,ruhw;ruryjnzrdicxrhosveroer utrudejnroekrrOr.hj 
hier vuer utrevjrfuneoacxunriaautoihridroe,rpcerutrOr utrnjuwohsrohrevj
Popxj,ruhwreu.jhrcfr oevryjnzrtjnoictrevicsvetrupicerqzrfnjtjhe
aihwoeoih,rOr utrtcnfnotjwr oevrevjrhiotjridrursch,rutrOrevicsve,rdonjw
uertjukrrEvotr ut,reirpjrtcnj,rurtcnfnotjrlcoejridrurwoddjnjherhuecnj
dniqruhzrOrvuwrqjer oevrpjdinj;rdinrevjrhieoihtrevotrfceroheirqzrevicsvet
 jnjrlcoejridruhievjnr.ohwkrrOrteunejwrcfrohrevjrsnjuejtervutej
oqusohupxj;ruhw,rohrurenoaj,raxuffjwrqzrxuwwjnreirevjrqowwxjrfxuajridrevj
nia.,ruhwrfcxxjwroerudejnrqj;ruhwrqicheohsroerevjrtjaihwreoqj,rsiereirevj
eifridrevjrvoxxrevjryjnzrqiqjherevuerurdxutvridrdonjrpowrqjrxotejhrdinru
tjaihwrsch,r voav,ruaainwohsxz,rohrupicervuxdrurqohcejrOrvjunw;ruhwrpz
evjrtichw,r.hj revueroer utrdniqrevuerfuneridrevjrtjur vjnjrOr utrwnoyjh
wi hrevjracnnjherohrqzrpiuekrrOroqqjwouejxzraihtowjnjwrevuerevotrqcterpj
tiqjrtvofrohrwotenjtt,ruhwrevuerevjzrvuwrtiqjraiqnuwj,rinrtiqjrievjnrtvof
ohraiqfuhz,ruhwrdonjwrevjtjrdinrtoshuxtridrwotenjtt,ruhwreiripeuohrvjxfk
Orvuwrevjrfnjtjhajridrqohwruerevuerqohcejreirevoh.,revuerevicsvrOraicxw
hiervjxfrevjq,roerqosverpjrevuerevjzrqosvervjxfrqj;rtirOrpnicsvereisjevjn
uxxrevjrwnzr iiwrOraicxwrsjeruervuhw,ruhwrqu.ohsrursiiwrvuhwtiqjrfoxj,rO
tjeroerihrdonjrcfihrevjrvoxxkrrEvjr iiwr utrwnz,ruhwrpxugjwrdnjjxz;ruhw,
evicsvrevjr ohwrpxj ryjnzrvunw,rzjeroerpcnhjwrduonxzrice;rtirevuerOr ut
ajneuoh,rodrevjnjr utruhzrtcavrevohsrutrurtvof,revjzrqcterhjjwtrtjjroek
Uhwrhirwicperevjzrwow;rdinrutrtiihrutrjyjnrqzrdonjrpxugjwrcf,rOrvjunw
uhievjnrsch,ruhwrudejnrevuertjyjnuxrievjnt,ruxxrdniqrevjrtuqjrlcunejnkrrO
fxojwrqzrdonjruxxrhosverxihs,reoxxrwuzpnju.:ruhwr vjhroer utrpniuwrwuz,
uhwrevjruonraxjunjwrcf,rOrtu rtiqjevohsruerursnjuerwoteuhajruertju,rdcxx
juteridrevjrotxuhw,r vjevjnrurtuoxrinrurvcxxrOraicxwrhierwoteohscotv—hi,
hier oevrqzrsxutt:revjrwoteuhajr utrtirsnjue,ruhwrevjr juevjnrteoxx
tiqjevohsrvugzruxti;ruerxjute,roer utrtiriceruertjuk

Orxii.jwrdnjlcjhexzrueroeruxxrevuerwuz,ruhwrtiihrfjnajoyjwrevueroerwow
hierqiyj;rtirOrfnjtjhexzraihaxcwjwrevueroer utrurtvofrueruhavin;ruhw
pjohsrjusjn,rzicrquzrpjrtcnj,reirpjrtueotdojw,rOreii.rqzrschrohrqzrvuhw,
uhwrnuhrei unwtrevjrticevrtowjridrevjrotxuhwreirevjrnia.tr vjnjrOrvuw
dinqjnxzrpjjhraunnojwru uzrpzrevjracnnjhe;ruhwrsjeeohsrcfrevjnj,revj
 juevjnrpzrevotreoqjrpjohsrfjndjaexzraxjun,rOraicxwrfxuohxzrtjj,reirqz
snjuertinni ,revjr nja.ridrurtvof,rauteru uzrohrevjrhosvercfihrevitj
aihajuxjwrnia.tr voavrOrdichwr vjhrOr utricerohrqzrpiue;ruhwr voavrnia.t,
utrevjzravja.jwrevjryoixjhajridrevjrtenjuq,ruhwrquwjrur.ohwrid
aichejn-tenjuq,rinrjwwz,r jnjrevjriaautoihridrqzrnjaiyjnohsrdniqrevjrqite
wjtfjnuej,rvifjxjttraihwoeoihrevuerjyjnrOrvuwrpjjhrohrohruxxrqzrxodjk
Evct,r vuerotrihjrquh’trtudjezrotruhievjnrquh’trwjtencaeoih;rdinroertjjqt
evjtjrqjh,r vijyjnrevjzr jnj,rpjohsriceridrevjonr.hi xjwsj,ruhwrevjrnia.t
pjohsr vixxzrchwjnr uejn,rvuwrpjjhrwnoyjhrcfihrevjqrohrevjrhosve,revj
 ohwrpxi ohsrvunwruerJHJkrrVuwrevjzrtjjhrevjrotxuhw,rutrOrqcte
hjajttunoxzrtcffitjrevjzrwowrhie,revjzrqcte,rutrOrevicsve,rvuyj
jhwjuyicnjwreirvuyjrtuyjwrevjqtjxyjtrihrtvinjrpzrevjrvjxfridrevjonrpiue;
pcerevjonrdonohsriddrschtrdinrvjxf,rjtfjaouxxzr vjhrevjzrtu ,rutrO
oqusohjw,rqzrdonj,rdoxxjwrqjr oevrquhzrevicsvetkrrDonte,rOroqusohjwrevue
cfihrtjjohsrqzrxosverevjzrqosvervuyjrfcerevjqtjxyjtroheirevjonrpiue,ruhw
jhwjuyicnjwreirqu.jrevjrtvinj:rpcerevuerevjrtjurnchhohsryjnzrvosv,revjz
qosvervuyjrpjjhrauteru uzkrrIevjnreoqjtrOroqusohjwrevuerevjzrqosvervuyj
xiterevjonrpiuerpjdinj,rutrqosverpjrevjrautjrquhzr uzt;rfuneoacxunxzrpz
evjrpnju.ohsridrevjrtjurcfihrevjonrtvof,r voavrquhzreoqjtripxosjwrqjhrei
teuyj,rinreu.jrohrfojajt,revjonrpiue,ruhwrtiqjeoqjtreirevni roeriyjnpiunw
 oevrevjonri hrvuhwtkrrIevjnreoqjtrOroqusohjwrevjzrvuwrtiqjrievjnrtvofrin
tvoftrohraiqfuhz,r vi,rcfihrevjrtoshuxtridrwotenjttrevjzrquwj,rvuwreu.jh
evjqrcf,ruhwraunnojwrevjqriddkrrIevjnreoqjtrOrduhaojwrevjzr jnjruxxrsihj
iddreirtjurohrevjonrpiue,ruhwrpjohsrvcnnojwru uzrpzrevjracnnjherevuerO
vuwrpjjhrdinqjnxzroh,r jnjraunnojwriceroheirevjrsnjueriajuh,r vjnjrevjnj
 utrhievohsrpcerqotjnzruhwrfjnotvohs:ruhwrevue,rfjnvuft,revjzrqosverpz
evotreoqjrevoh.ridrteunyohs,ruhwridrpjohsrohruraihwoeoihreirjuerihj
uhievjnk

Utruxxrevjtjr jnjrpceraihbjaecnjtruerpjte,rti,rohrevjraihwoeoihrOr utroh,
Oraicxwrwirhirqinjrevuhrxii.rihrcfihrevjrqotjnzridrevjrfiinrqjh,ruhwrfoez
evjq;r voavrvuwrteoxxrevotrsiiwrjddjaercfihrqzrtowj,revueroersuyjrqjrqinj
uhwrqinjrauctjreirsoyjrevuh.treirSiw,r virvuwrtirvuffoxzruhwraiqdineupxz
fniyowjwrdinrqjrohrqzrwjtixuejraihwoeoih;ruhwrevueridre irtvoft’
aiqfuhojt,r vir jnjrhi rauteru uzrcfihrevotrfuneridrevjr inxw,rhierihj
xodjrtvicxwrpjrtfunjwrpcerqohjkrrOrxjunhjwrvjnjrusuohreiriptjnyj,revueroe
otryjnzrnunjrevuerevjrfniyowjhajridrSiwrautetrctroheiruhzraihwoeoihrti
xi ,rinruhzrqotjnzrtirsnjue,rpcer jrquzrtjjrtiqjevohsrinrievjnreirpj
evuh.dcxrdin,ruhwrquzrtjjrievjntrohr intjraonacqteuhajtrevuhricnri hk
Tcavrajneuohxzr utrevjrautjridrevjtjrqjh,ridr viqrOraicxwrhiertirqcavrut
tjjrniiqreirtcffitjruhzr jnjrtuyjw;rhievohsraicxwrqu.jroernueoihuxrti
qcavrutreir otvrinrjmfjaerevuerevjzrwowrhieruxxrfjnotvrevjnj,rjmajferevj
fittopoxoezrihxzridrevjonrpjohsreu.jhrcfrpzruhievjnrtvofrohraiqfuhz;ruhw
evotr utrpcerqjnjrfittopoxoezrohwjjw,rdinrOrtu rhierevjrxjutertoshrin
uffjunuhajridruhzrtcavrevohskrrOrauhhierjmfxuoh,rpzruhzrfittopxjrjhjnsz
idr inwt,r vuerurtenuhsjrxihsohsrOrdjxerohrqzrticxrcfihrevotrtosve,
pnju.ohsricertiqjeoqjtrevct:r“Ivrevuerevjnjrvuwrpjjhrpcerihjrinre i,rhuz,
inrpcerihjrticxrtuyjwriceridrevotrtvof,reirvuyjrjtaufjwreirqj,revuerO
qosverpcervuyjrvuwrihjraiqfuhoih,rihjrdjxxi -anjuecnj,reirvuyjrtfi.jhrei
qjruhwreirvuyjraihyjntjwr oev!”rrOhruxxrevjreoqjridrqzrtixoeunzrxodjrO
hjyjnrdjxertirjunhjte,rtirtenihsrurwjtonjrudejnrevjrtiaojezridrqz
djxxi -anjuecnjt,rinrtirwjjfrurnjsnjeruerevjr uheridroek

Evjnjrunjrtiqjrtjanjertfnohstrohrevjruddjaeoihtr voav,r vjhrevjzrunjrtje
u-siohsrpzrtiqjripbjaerohryoj ,rin,revicsvrhierohryoj ,rzjernjhwjnjw
fnjtjhereirevjrqohwrpzrevjrfi jnridroqusohueoih,revuerqieoihraunnojtrice
evjrticx,rpzroetroqfjecitoez,reirtcavryoixjhe,rjusjnrjqpnuaohstridrevj
ipbjae,revuerevjruptjhajridroerotrohtcffineupxjkrrTcavr jnjrevjtjrjunhjte
 otvohstrevuerpcerihjrquhrvuwrpjjhrtuyjwkrrOrpjxojyjrOrnjfjuejwrevj
 inwt,r“Ivrevueroervuwrpjjhrpcerihj!”rurevictuhwreoqjt;ruhwrqzrwjtonjt
 jnjrtirqiyjwrpzroe,revuer vjhrOrtfi.jrevjr inwtrqzrvuhwtr icxwraxohav
eisjevjn,ruhwrqzrdohsjntr icxwrfnjttrevjrfuxqtridrqzrvuhwt,rtirevuerodrO
vuwrvuwruhzrtiderevohsrohrqzrvuhwrOrtvicxwrvuyjranctvjwroerohyixcheunoxz;
uhwrevjrejjevrohrqzrvjuwr icxwrteno.jreisjevjn,ruhwrtjerusuohterihj
uhievjnrtirtenihs,revuerdinrtiqjreoqjrOraicxwrhierfunerevjqrusuohkrrXje
evjrhuecnuxotetrjmfxuohrevjtjrevohst,ruhwrevjrnjutihruhwrquhhjnridrevjqk
UxxrOrauhrwirotreirwjtanopjrevjrduae,r voavr utrjyjhrtcnfnotohsreirqj
 vjhrOrdichwroe,revicsvrOr.hj rhierdniqr vjhajroerfniajjwjw;roer ut
wicpexjttrevjrjddjaeridrunwjher otvjt,ruhwridrtenihsrowjutrdinqjwrohrqz
qohw,rnjuxotohsrevjraiqdiner voavrevjraihyjntueoihridrihjridrqz
djxxi -Avnoteouhtr icxwrvuyjrpjjhreirqjkrrPceroer utrhiereirpj;rjoevjn
evjonrduejrinrqohj,rinrpiev,rdinpuwjroe;rdin,reoxxrevjrxuterzjunridrqz
pjohsrihrevotrotxuhw,rOrhjyjnr.hj r vjevjnruhzr jnjrtuyjwriceridrevue
tvofrinrhi;ruhwrvuwrihxzrevjruddxoaeoih,rtiqjrwuztrudejn,reirtjjrevj
ainftjridrurwni hjwrpizraiqjrihrtvinjruerevjrjhwridrevjrotxuhwr voavr ut
hjmerevjrtvof nja.krrVjrvuwrhiraxievjtrihrpcerurtjuquh’tr uoteaiue,ru
fuonridrifjh-.hjjwrxohjhrwnu jnt,ruhwrurpxcjrxohjhrtvone;rpcerhievohsrei
wonjaerqjrtirqcavrutreirscjttr vuerhueoihrvjr utridkrrVjrvuwrhievohsroh
votrfia.jetrpcere irfojajtridrjosveruhwrureipuaairfofj—evjrxuter utreirqj
idrejhreoqjtrqinjryuxcjrevuhrevjrdontek

Oer utrhi rauxq,ruhwrOrvuwrursnjuerqohwreiryjhecnjricerohrqzrpiuereirevot
 nja.,rhierwicpeohsrpcerOrqosverdohwrtiqjevohsrihrpiunwrevuerqosverpj
ctjdcxreirqjkrrPcerevuerwowrhieruxeisjevjnrfnjttrqjrtirqcavrutrevj
fittopoxoezrevuerevjnjrqosverpjrzjertiqjrxoyohsranjuecnjrihrpiunw,r vitj
xodjrOrqosverhierihxzrtuyj,rpcerqosve,rpzrtuyohsrevuerxodj,raiqdinerqz
i hreirevjrxuterwjsnjj;ruhwrevotrevicsveraxchsrtireirqzrvjunerevuerO
aicxwrhierpjrlcojerhosverinrwuz,rpcerOrqcteryjhecnjricerohrqzrpiuerih
piunwrevotr nja.;ruhwraiqqoeeohsrevjrnjtereirSiw’trfniyowjhaj,rOrevicsve
evjroqfnjttoihr utrtirtenihsrcfihrqzrqohwrevueroeraicxwrhierpj
njtotejw—evueroerqcteraiqjrdniqrtiqjrohyotopxjrwonjaeoih,ruhwrevuerO
tvicxwrpjr uheohsreirqztjxdrodrOrwowrhiersik

Chwjnrevjrfi jnridrevotroqfnjttoih,rOrvutejhjwrpua.reirqzrautexj,
fnjfunjwrjyjnzevohsrdinrqzryizusj,reii.rurlcuheoezridrpnjuw,rursnjuerfie
idrdnjtvr uejn,ruraiqfuttreirtejjnrpz,rurpieexjridrncqr(dinrOrvuwrteoxxru
snjuerwjuxridrevuerxjde),ruhwrurput.jeridrnuotoht;ruhwrevct,rxiuwohs
qztjxdr oevrjyjnzevohsrhjajttunzkrrOr jherwi hreirqzrpiue,rsierevjr uejn
iceridrvjn,rsiervjnrudxiue,rxiuwjwruxxrqzraunsirohrvjn,ruhwrevjhr jhe
viqjrusuohrdinrqinjkrrQzrtjaihwraunsir utrursnjuerpusridrnoaj,revj
cqpnjxxureirtjercfriyjnrqzrvjuwrdinrurtvuwj,ruhievjnrxunsjrfieridr uejn,
uhwrupicere irwigjhridrtquxxrxiuyjt,rinrpunxjzrau.jt,rqinjrevuhrpjdinj,
 oevrurpieexjridrsiue’trqox.ruhwruravjjtj;ruxxr voavr oevrsnjuerxupicn
uhwrt juerOraunnojwreirqzrpiue;ruhwrfnuzohsreirSiwreirwonjaerqzryizusj,rO
fcerice,ruhwrni ohsrinrfuwwxohsrevjrauhijruxihsrevjrtvinj,rauqjruerxute
eirevjrceqiterfioheridrevjrotxuhwrihrevjrhinev-jutertowjkrrUhwrhi rOr ut
eirxuchavriceroheirevjriajuh,ruhwrjoevjnreiryjhecnjrinrhiereiryjhecnjkrrO
xii.jwrihrevjrnufowracnnjhetr voavrnuhraihteuhexzrihrpievrtowjtridrevj
otxuhwruerurwoteuhaj,ruhwr voavr jnjryjnzrejnnopxjreirqjrdniqrevj
njqjqpnuhajridrevjrvugunwrOrvuwrpjjhrohrpjdinj,ruhwrqzrvjunerpjsuhrei
duoxrqj;rdinrOrdinjtu revuerodrOr utrwnoyjhroheirjoevjnridrevitj
acnnjhet,rOrtvicxwrpjraunnojwrursnjuer uzricereirtju,ruhwrfjnvuftricerid
qzrnjuavrinrtosveridrevjrotxuhwrusuoh;ruhwrevuerevjh,rutrqzrpiuer utrpce
tquxx,rodruhzrxoeexjrsuxjridr ohwrtvicxwrnotj,rOrtvicxwrpjrohjyoeupxz
xitek

EvjtjrevicsvetrtiriffnjttjwrqzrqohwrevuerOrpjsuhreirsoyjriyjnrqz
jhejnfnotj;ruhwrvuyohsrvucxjwrqzrpiueroheirurxoeexjranjj.rihrevjrtvinj,rO
tejffjwrice,ruhwrtuerwi hrcfihrurnotohsrpoeridrsnichw,ryjnzrfjhtoyjruhw
uhmoict,rpje jjhrdjunruhwrwjtonj,rupicerqzryizusj;r vjh,rutrOr utrqctohs,
Oraicxwrfjnajoyjrevuerevjreowjr utrecnhjw,ruhwrevjrdxiiwraiqjrih;rcfih
 voavrqzrsiohsr utroqfnuaeoaupxjrdinrtirquhzrvicntkrrCfihrevot,rfnjtjhexz
oeriaacnnjwreirqjrevuerOrtvicxwrsircfreirevjrvosvjterfojajridrsnichwrO
aicxwrdohw,ruhwriptjnyj,rodrOraicxw,rvi revjrtjetridrevjreowjrinracnnjhet
xuzr vjhrevjrdxiiwrauqjroh,revuerOrqosverbcwsjr vjevjn,rodrOr utrwnoyjh
ihjr uzrice,rOrqosverhierjmfjaereirpjrwnoyjhruhievjnr uzrviqj,r oevrevj
tuqjrnufowoezridrevjracnnjhetkrrEvotrevicsver utrhirtiihjnrohrqzrvjuw
evuhrOrauterqzrjzjrcfihrurxoeexjrvoxxr voavrtcddoaojhexzriyjnxii.jwrevj
tjurpievr uzt,ruhwrdniqr vjhajrOrvuwruraxjunryoj ridrevjracnnjhetrinrtjet
idrevjreowj,ruhwr voavr uzrOr utreirscowjrqztjxdrohrqzrnjecnhkrrVjnjrO
dichw,revuerutrevjracnnjheridrjpprtjericeraxitjrpzrevjrticevrfioheridrevj
otxuhw,rtirevjracnnjheridrevjrdxiiwrtjerohraxitjrpzrevjrtvinjridrevj
hinevrtowj;ruhwrevuerOrvuwrhievohsreirwirpcereir.jjfreirevjrhinevrtowjrid
evjrotxuhwrohrqzrnjecnh,ruhwrOrtvicxwrwir jxxrjhicsvk

Jhaicnusjwrpzrevotriptjnyueoih,rOrnjtixyjwrevjrhjmerqinhohsreirtjerice
 oevrevjrdonteridrevjreowj;ruhwrnjfitohsrqztjxdrdinrevjrhosverohrqz
auhij,rchwjnrevjr ueav-aiuerOrqjheoihjw,rOrxuchavjwricekrrOrdonterquwjru
xoeexjricereirtju,rdcxxrhinev,reoxxrOrpjsuhreirdjjxrevjrpjhjdoeridrevj
acnnjhe,r voavrtjerjute unw,ruhwr voavraunnojwrqjruerursnjuernuej;ruhw
zjerwowrhiertirvcnnzrqjrutrevjracnnjherihrevjrticevrtowjrvuwrwihjrpjdinj,
tirutreireu.jrdniqrqjruxxrsiyjnhqjheridrevjrpiue;rpcervuyohsrurtenihs
tejjnusjr oevrqzrfuwwxj,rOr jheruerursnjuernuejrwonjaexzrdinrevjr nja.,
uhwrohrxjttrevuhre irvicntrOrauqjrcfreiroekrrOer utrurwotquxrtosverei
xii.rue;revjrtvof,r voavrpzroetrpcoxwohsr utrTfuhotv,rteca.rdute,rbuqqjw
ohrpje jjhre irnia.tkrrUxxrevjrtejnhruhwrlcunejnridrvjnr jnjrpjuejhrei
fojajtrpzrevjrtju;ruhwrutrvjnrdinjautexj,r voavrteca.rohrevjrnia.t,rvuw
nchrihr oevrsnjueryoixjhaj,rvjnrquohquteruhwrdinjquter jnjrpnicsverpzrevj
piunw—evuerotreirtuz,rpni.jhrtvineridd;rpcervjnrpi tfnoer utrtichw,ruhw
evjrvjuwruhwrpi ruffjunjwrdonqkrr vjhrOrauqjraxitjreirvjn,rurwisruffjunjw
cfihrvjn,r vi,rtjjohsrqjraiqohs,rzjxfjwruhwranojw;ruhwrutrtiihrutrO
auxxjwrvoq,rbcqfjwroheirevjrtjureiraiqjreirqjkrrOreii.rvoqroheirevjrpiue,
pcerdichwrvoqruxqiterwjuwr oevrvchsjnruhwrevontekrrOrsuyjrvoqrurau.jrid
qzrpnjuw,ruhwrvjrwjyicnjwroerxo.jrurnuyjhictr ixdrevuervuwrpjjhrteunyohs
urdinehosverohrevjrthi ;rOrevjhrsuyjrevjrfiinranjuecnjrtiqjrdnjtvr uejn,
 oevr voav,rodrOr icxwrvuyjrxjervoq,rvjr icxwrvuyjrpcntervoqtjxdkrrUdejn
evotrOr jherihrpiunw;rpcerevjrdontertosverOrqjer oevr utre irqjhrwni hjw
ohrevjraii.-niiq,rinrdinjautexjridrevjrtvof,r oevrevjonrunqtrduterupice
ihjruhievjnkrrOraihaxcwjw,rutrotrohwjjwrfnipupxj,revuer vjhrevjrtvof
tenca.,roerpjohsrohrurteinq,revjrtjurpni.jrtirvosvruhwrtiraiheohcuxxz
iyjnrvjn,revuerevjrqjhr jnjrhierupxjreirpjunroe,ruhwr jnjrtenuhsxjwr oev
evjraihteuhernctvohsrohridrevjr uejn,rutrqcavrutrodrevjzrvuwrpjjhrchwjn
 uejnkrrPjtowjtrevjrwis,revjnjr utrhievohsrxjderohrevjrtvofrevuervuw
xodj;rhinruhzrsiiwt,revuerOraicxwrtjj,rpcer vuer jnjrtfioxjwrpzrevj
 uejnkrrEvjnjr jnjrtiqjraut.tridrxolcin,r vjevjnr ohjrinrpnuhwzrOr.hj 
hie,r voavrxuzrxi jnrohrevjrvixw,ruhwr voav,revjr uejnrpjohsrjppjwrice,rO
aicxwrtjj;rpcerevjzr jnjreiirposreirqjwwxjr oevkrrOrtu rtjyjnuxravjtet,
 voavrOrpjxojyjrpjxihsjwreirtiqjridrevjrtjuqjh;ruhwrOrsiere iridrevjq
oheirevjrpiue,r oevicerjmuqohohsr vuer utrohrevjqkrrVuwrevjrtejnhridrevj
tvofrpjjhrdomjw,ruhwrevjrdinjfunerpni.jhridd,rOruqrfjntcuwjwrOrqosvervuyj
quwjrursiiwryizusj;rdinrpzr vuerOrdichwrohrevitjre iravjtetrOrvuwrniiqrei
tcffitjrevjrtvofrvuwrursnjuerwjuxridr juxevrihrpiunw;ruhw,rodrOrquzrscjtt
dniqrevjraicntjrtvjrtejjnjw,rtvjrqctervuyjrpjjhrpichwrdniqrPcjhitrUznjt,
inrevjrNoirwjrxurFxueu,rohrevjrticevrfuneridrUqjnoau,rpjzihwrevjrPnugoxt
eirevjrVuyuhhuv,rohrevjrScxdridrQjmoai,ruhwrtirfjnvuftreirTfuohkrrTvj
vuw,rhirwicpe,rursnjuerenjutcnjrohrvjn,rpceridrhirctj,ruerevuereoqj,rei
uhzpiwz;ruhwr vuerpjauqjridrevjranj rOrevjhr.hj rhiek

Ordichw,rpjtowjtrevjtjravjtet,rurxoeexjraut.rdcxxridrxolcin,ridrupice
e jhezrsuxxiht,r voavrOrsieroheirqzrpiuer oevrqcavrwoddoacxezkrrEvjnj
 jnjrtjyjnuxrqct.jetrohrevjraupoh,ruhwrursnjuerfi wjn-vinh,r oevrupice
dicnrfichwtridrfi wjnrohroe;rutrdinrevjrqct.jet,rOrvuwrhiriaautoihrdin
evjq,rtirOrxjderevjq,rpcereii.revjrfi wjn-vinhkrrOreii.rurdonj-tviyjxruhw
eihst,r voavrOr uhejwrjmenjqjxz,rutruxtire irxoeexjrpnuttr.jeexjt,ru
aiffjnrfiereirqu.jraviaixuej,ruhwrursnowonih;ruhwr oevrevotraunsi,ruhw
evjrwis,rOrauqjru uz,revjreowjrpjsohhohsreirqu.jrviqjrusuoh—uhwrevjrtuqj
jyjhohs,rupiceruhrvicnr oevohrhosve,rOrnjuavjwrevjrotxuhwrusuoh,r junz
uhwrdueoscjwreirevjrxuterwjsnjjkrrOrnjfitjwrevuerhosverohrevjrpiueruhwroh
evjrqinhohsrOrnjtixyjwreirvunpicnr vuerOrvuwrsierohrqzrhj rauyj,ruhwrhie
aunnzroerviqjreirqzrautexjkrrUdejnrnjdnjtvohsrqztjxd,rOrsieruxxrqzraunsi
ihrtvinj,ruhwrpjsuhreirjmuqohjrevjrfuneoacxuntkrrEvjraut.ridrxolcinrO
dichwreirpjrur.ohwridrncq,rpcerhiertcavrutr jrvuwruerevjrPnugoxt;ruhw,roh
ur inw,rhierueruxxrsiiw;rpcer vjhrOrauqjreirifjhrevjravjtet,rOrdichw
tjyjnuxrevohstridrsnjuerctjreirqj—dinrjmuqfxj,rOrdichwrohrihjrurdohjrautj
idrpieexjt,ridruhrjmenuinwohunzr.ohw,ruhwrdoxxjwr oevrainwouxr uejnt,
dohjruhwryjnzrsiiw;revjrpieexjtrvjxwrupicerevnjjrfohetrjuav,ruhwr jnj
eoffjwr oevrtoxyjnkrrOrdichwre irfietridryjnzrsiiwrtcaauwjt,rin
t jjeqjuet,rtirdutejhjwruxtirihrevjreifrevuerevjrtuxe- uejnrvuwrhiervcne
evjq;ruhwre irqinjridrevjrtuqj,r voavrevjr uejnrvuwrtfioxjwkrrOrdichw
tiqjryjnzrsiiwrtvonet,r voavr jnjryjnzr jxaiqjreirqj;ruhwrupicerurwigjh
uhwrurvuxdridr voejrxohjhrvuhw.jnavojdtruhwraixicnjwrhja.axievt;revj
dinqjnr jnjruxtiryjnzr jxaiqj,rpjohsrjmajjwohsxzrnjdnjtvohsreir ofjrqz
duajrohrurvierwuzkrrPjtowjtrevot,r vjhrOrauqjreirevjreoxxrohrevjravjte,rO
dichwrevjnjrevnjjrsnjuerpustridrfojajtridrjosve,r voavrvjxwrupicerjxjyjh
vchwnjwrfojajtrohruxx;ruhwrohrihjridrevjq,r nuffjwrcfrohrurfufjn,rtom
wicpxiihtridrsixw,ruhwrtiqjrtquxxrpuntrinr jwsjtridrsixw;rOrtcffitjrevjz
qosveruxxr josvrhjunrurfichwkrrOhrevjrievjnravjter jnjrtiqjraxievjt,rpce
idrxoeexjryuxcj;rpce,rpzrevjraonacqteuhajt,roerqctervuyjrpjxihsjwreirevj
schhjn’trquej;revicsvrevjnjr utrhirfi wjnrohroe,rjmajfere irfichwtrid
dohjrsxugjwrfi wjn,rohrevnjjrdxut.t,r.jfe,rOrtcffitj,rdinravunsohsrevjon
di xohs-fojajtrihriaautoihkrrCfihrevjr vixj,rOrsieryjnzrxoeexjrpzrevot
yizusjrevuer utridruhzrctjreirqj;rdin,rutreirevjrqihjz,rOrvuwrhirquhhjn
idriaautoihrdinroe;roer utreirqjrutrevjrwonerchwjnrqzrdjje,ruhwrOr icxw
vuyjrsoyjhroeruxxrdinrevnjjrinrdicnrfuonridrJhsxotvrtvijtruhwrteia.ohst,
 voavr jnjrevohstrOrsnjuexzr uhejw,rpcervuwrvuwrhihjrihrqzrdjjerdinrquhz
zjuntkrrOrvuw,rohwjjw,rsiere irfuonridrtvijtrhi ,r voavrOreii.riddrevj
djjeridre irwni hjwrqjhr viqrOrtu rohrevjr nja.,ruhwrOrdichwre irfuon
qinjrohrihjridrevjravjtet,r voavr jnjryjnzr jxaiqjreirqj;rpcerevjzr jnj
hierxo.jricnrJhsxotvrtvijt,rjoevjnrdinrjutjrinrtjnyoaj,rpjohsrnuevjnr vue
 jrauxxrfcqftrevuhrtvijtkrrOrdichwrohrevotrtjuquh’travjterupicerdodez
fojajtridrjosve,rohrnouxt,rpcerhirsixw:rOrtcffitjwrevotrpjxihsjwreiru
fiinjnrquhrevuhrevjrievjn,r voavrtjjqjwreirpjxihsreirtiqjriddoajnkrr jxx,
vi jyjn,rOrxcssjwrevotrqihjzrviqjreirqzrauyj,ruhwrxuowroercf,rutrOrvuw
wihjrevuerpjdinjr voavrOrvuwrpnicsverdniqricnri hrtvof;rpceroer utru
snjuerfoez,rutrOrtuow,revuerevjrievjnrfuneridrevotrtvofrvuwrhieraiqjrei
qzrtvunj:rdinrOruqrtueotdojwrOrqosvervuyjrxiuwjwrqzrauhijrtjyjnuxreoqjt
iyjnr oevrqihjz;ruhw,revicsverO,rodrOrjyjnrjtaufjreirJhsxuhw,roerqosve
xojrvjnjrtudjrjhicsvreoxxrOraiqjrusuohruhwrdjeavroek




AVUFEJNrMOY—UrWNJUQrNJUXOTJW


Vuyohsrhi rpnicsveruxxrqzrevohstrihrtvinjruhwrtjacnjwrevjq,rOr jherpua.
eirqzrpiue,ruhwrni jwrinrfuwwxjwrvjnruxihsrevjrtvinjreirvjnrixwrvunpicn,
 vjnjrOrxuowrvjnrcf,ruhwrquwjrevjrpjteridrqzr uzreirqzrixwrvupoeueoih,
 vjnjrOrdichwrjyjnzevohsrtudjruhwrlcojekrrOrpjsuhrhi reirnjfitjrqztjxd,
xoyjrudejnrqzrixwrdutvoih,ruhwreu.jraunjridrqzrduqoxzrudduont;ruhwrdinru
 voxjrOrxoyjwrjutzrjhicsv,rihxzrevuerOr utrqinjryosoxuherevuhrOrctjwrei
pj,rxii.jwriceridejhjn,ruhwrwowrhiersirupniuwrtirqcav;ruhwrodrueruhzreoqj
Orwowrteonr oevruhzrdnjjwiq,roer utrux uztreirevjrjuterfuneridrevj
otxuhw,r vjnjrOr utrfnjeezr jxxrtueotdojwrevjrtuyusjtrhjyjnrauqj,ruhw
 vjnjrOraicxwrsir oevicertirquhzrfnjauceoiht,ruhwrtcavrurxiuwridrunqtruhw
uqqchoeoihrutrOrux uztraunnojwr oevrqjrodrOr jherevjrievjnr uzk

Orxoyjwrohrevotraihwoeoihrhjunre irzjuntrqinj;rpcerqzrchxca.zrvjuw,revue
 utrux uztreirxjerqjr.hi roer utrpinhreirqu.jrqzrpiwzrqotjnupxj,r utruxx
evjtjre irzjuntrdoxxjwr oevrfnibjaetruhwrwjtoshtrvi ,rodroer jnj
fittopxj,rOrqosversjeru uzrdniqrevotrotxuhw:rdinrtiqjeoqjtrOr utrdin
qu.ohsruhievjnryizusjreirevjr nja.,revicsvrqzrnjutihreixwrqjrevuerevjnj
 utrhievohsrxjderevjnjr inevrevjrvugunwridrqzryizusj;rtiqjeoqjtrdinru
nuqpxjrihjr uz,rtiqjeoqjtruhievjn—uhwrOrpjxojyjryjnoxz,rodrOrvuwrvuwrevj
piuerevuerOr jherdniqrTuxxjjroh,rOrtvicxwrvuyjryjhecnjwreirtju,rpichw
uhz vjnj,rOr.hj rhier voevjnk

Orvuyjrpjjh,rohruxxrqzraonacqteuhajt,rurqjqjheireirevitjr virunjreicavjw
 oevrevjrsjhjnuxrfxuscjridrquh.ohw,r vjhaj,rdinrucsverOr.hi ,rihjrvuxd
idrevjonrqotjnojtrdxi :rOrqjuhrevueridrhierpjohsrtueotdojwr oevrevj
teueoihr vjnjohrSiwruhwrHuecnjrvuevrfxuajwrevjq—din,rhiereirxii.rpua.
cfihrqzrfnoqoeoyjraihwoeoih,ruhwrevjrjmajxxjheruwyoajridrqzrduevjn,revj
iffitoeoihreir voavr ut,rutrOrquzrauxxroe,rqzr_inosohuxrtoh_,rqz
tcptjlcjherqoteu.jtridrevjrtuqjr.ohwrvuwrpjjhrevjrqjuhtridrqzraiqohs
oheirevotrqotjnupxjraihwoeoih;rdinrvuwrevuerFniyowjhajr voavrtirvuffoxz
tjuejwrqjruerevjrPnugoxtrutrurfxuhejnrpxjttjwrqjr oevraihdohjwrwjtonjt,
uhwrOraicxwrvuyjrpjjhraihejhejwreirvuyjrsihjrihrsnuwcuxxz,rOrqosvervuyj
pjjhrpzrevotreoqj—Orqjuhrohrevjreoqjridrqzrpjohsrohrevotrotxuhw—ihjrid
evjrqiteraihtowjnupxjrfxuhejntrohrevjrPnugoxt—huz,rOruqrfjntcuwjw,revue
pzrevjroqfniyjqjhetrOrvuwrquwjrohrevuerxoeexjreoqjrOrxoyjwrevjnj,ruhw
evjrohanjutjrOrtvicxwrfnipupxzrvuyjrquwjrodrOrvuwrnjquohjw,rOrqosvervuyj
pjjhr inevrurvchwnjwrevictuhwrqiowinjt—uhwr vuerpctohjttrvuwrOreirxjuyj
urtjeexjwrdinechj,rur jxx-teia.jwrfxuheueoih,roqfniyohsruhwrohanjutohs,
eirecnhrtcfjnaunsireirScohjureirdjeavrhjsnijt,r vjhrfueojhajruhwreoqj
 icxwrvuyjrtirohanjutjwricnrteia.ruerviqj,revuer jraicxwrvuyjrpicsve
evjqruericnri hrwiinrdniqrevitjr vitjrpctohjttroer utreirdjeavrevjq?ruhw
evicsvroervuwraiterctrtiqjevohsrqinj,rzjerevjrwoddjnjhajridrevuerfnoaj
 utrpzrhirqjuhtr inevrtuyohsruertirsnjuerurvugunwkrrPcerutrevotrot
ctcuxxzrevjrduejridrzichsrvjuwt,rtirnjdxjaeoihrcfihrevjrdixxzridroerot
utraiqqihxzrevjrjmjnaotjridrqinjrzjunt,rinridrevjrwjun-picsverjmfjnojhaj
idreoqj—tiroer utr oevrqjrhi ;ruhwrzjertirwjjfrvuwrevjrqoteu.jreu.jh
niierohrqzrejqfjn,revuerOraicxwrhiertueotdzrqztjxdrohrqzrteueoih,rpce
 utraiheohcuxxzrfinohsrcfihrevjrqjuhtruhwrfittopoxoezridrqzrjtaufjrdniq
evotrfxuaj;ruhwrevuerOrquz,r oevrsnjuejnrfxjutcnjreirevjrnjuwjn,rpnohs
ihrevjrnjquohohsrfuneridrqzrteinz,roerquzrhierpjroqfnifjnreirsoyjrtiqj
uaaicheridrqzrdonteraihajfeoihtrihrevjrtcpbjaeridrevotrdiixotvrtavjqj
dinrqzrjtaufj,ruhwrvi ,ruhwrcfihr vuerdichwueoih,rOruaejwk

Oruqrhi reirpjrtcffitjwrnjeonjwroheirqzrautexj,rudejnrqzrxuejryizusjrei
evjr nja.,rqzrdnosuejrxuowrcfruhwrtjacnjwrchwjnr uejn,rutrctcux,ruhwrqz
aihwoeoihrnjteinjwreir vueroer utrpjdinj:rOrvuwrqinjr juxev,rohwjjw,revuh
Orvuwrpjdinj,rpcer utrhierueruxxrevjrnoavjn;rdinrOrvuwrhirqinjrctjrdinroe
evuhrevjrOhwouhtridrFjncrvuwrpjdinjrevjrTfuhounwtrauqjrevjnjk

Oer utrihjridrevjrhosvetrohrevjrnuohzrtjutihrohrQunav,revj
dicn-uhw-e jheojevrzjunridrqzrdontertjeeohsrdiierohrevotrotxuhwrid
tixoecwj,rOr utrxzohsrohrqzrpjwrinrvuqqia.,ru u.j,ryjnzr jxxrohrvjuxev,
vuwrhirfuoh,rhirwotejqfjn,rhirchjutohjttridrpiwz,rhinruhzrchjutohjttrid
qohwrqinjrevuhrinwohunz,rpceraicxwrpzrhirqjuhtraxitjrqzrjzjt,revuerot,rti
utreirtxjjf;rhi,rhierur oh.ruxxrhosverxihs,rievjn otjrevuhrutrdixxi t:

Oerotroqfittopxjreirtjerwi hrevjrohhcqjnupxjrani wridrevicsvetrevuer vonxjw
evnicsvrevuersnjuerevinicsvdunjridrevjrpnuoh,revjrqjqinz,rohrevotrhosve’t
eoqjkrrOrnuhriyjnrevjr vixjrvoteinzridrqzrxodjrohrqohouecnj,rinrpz
upnowsqjhe,rutrOrquzrauxxroe,reirqzraiqohsreirevotrotxuhw,ruhwruxtirid
evuerfuneridrqzrxodjrtohajrOrauqjreirevotrotxuhwkrrOhrqzrnjdxjaeoihtrcfih
evjrteuejridrqzrautjrtohajrOrauqjrihrtvinjrihrevotrotxuhw,rOr ut
aiqfunohsrevjrvuffzrfitecnjridrqzrudduontrohrevjrdonterzjuntridrqz
vupoeueoihrvjnj,r oevrevjrxodjridruhmojez,rdjun,ruhwraunjr voavrOrvuw
xoyjwrohrjyjnrtohajrOrvuwrtjjhrevjrfnoheridrurdiierohrevjrtuhwkrrHierevue
Orwowrhierpjxojyjrevjrtuyusjtrvuwrdnjlcjhejwrevjrotxuhwrjyjhruxxrevj
 voxj,ruhwrqosvervuyjrpjjhrtjyjnuxrvchwnjwtridrevjqruereoqjtrihrtvinj
evjnj;rpcerOrvuwrhjyjnr.hi hroe,ruhwr utrohaufupxjridruhzruffnjvjhtoiht
upiceroe;rqzrtueotduaeoihr utrfjndjae,revicsvrqzrwuhsjnr utrevjrtuqj,ruhw
Or utrutrvuffzrohrhier.hi ohsrqzrwuhsjnrutrodrOrvuwrhjyjnrnjuxxzrpjjh
jmfitjwreiroekrrEvotrdcnhotvjwrqzrevicsvetr oevrquhzryjnzrfnidoeupxj
njdxjaeoiht,ruhwrfuneoacxunxzrevotrihj:rVi rohdohoejxzrsiiwrevue
Fniyowjhajrot,r voavrvutrfniyowjw,rohroetrsiyjnhqjheridrquh.ohw,rtcav
hunni rpichwtreirvotrtosveruhwr.hi xjwsjridrevohst;ruhwrevicsvrvjr ux.t
ohrevjrqowteridrtirquhzrevictuhwrwuhsjnt,revjrtosveridr voav,rod
wotaiyjnjwreirvoq,r icxwrwotenuaervotrqohwruhwrtoh.rvotrtfonoet,rvjrot
.jfertjnjhjruhwrauxq,rpzrvuyohsrevjrjyjhetridrevohstrvowrdniqrvotrjzjt,
uhwr.hi ohsrhievohsridrevjrwuhsjntr voavrtcnnichwrvoqk

Udejnrevjtjrevicsvetrvuwrdinrtiqjreoqjrjhejneuohjwrqj,rOrauqjreirnjdxjae
tjnoictxzrcfihrevjrnjuxrwuhsjnrOrvuwrpjjhrohrdinrtirquhzrzjuntrohrevot
yjnzrotxuhw,ruhwrvi rOrvuwr ux.jwrupicerohrevjrsnjuejtertjacnoez,ruhw
 oevruxxrfittopxjrenuhlcoxxoez,rjyjhr vjhrfjnvuftrhievohsrpcerevjrpni rid
urvoxx,rursnjuerenjj,rinrevjrautcuxruffniuavridrhosve,rvuwrpjjhrpje jjh
qjruhwrevjr inter.ohwridrwjtencaeoih—yogkrevueridrduxxohsroheirevjrvuhwt
idrauhhopuxtruhwrtuyusjt,r vir icxwrvuyjrtjogjwrihrqjr oevrevjrtuqjryoj 
utrOr icxwrihrursiuerinrecnexj;ruhwrvuyjrevicsveroerhirqinjranoqjreir.oxx
uhwrwjyicnrqjrevuhrOrwowridrurfosjihrinruracnxj krrOr icxwrchbctexz
txuhwjnrqztjxdrodrOrtvicxwrtuzrOr utrhiertohajnjxzrevuh.dcxreirqzrsnjue
Fnjtjnyjn,reir vitjrtohscxunrfniejaeoihrOrua.hi xjwsjw,r oevrsnjue
vcquhoez,ruxxrevjtjrch.hi hrwjxoyjnuhajtr jnjrwcj,ruhwr oevicer voavrO
qcterohjyoeupxzrvuyjrduxxjhroheirevjonrqjnaoxjttrvuhwtk

 vjhrevjtjrevicsvetr jnjriyjn,rqzrvjuwr utrdinrtiqjreoqjreu.jhrcfroh
aihtowjnohsrevjrhuecnjridrevjtjr njeavjwranjuecnjt,rOrqjuhrevjrtuyusjt,
uhwrvi roerauqjreirfuttrohrevjr inxwrevuerevjr otjrSiyjnhinridruxxrevohst
tvicxwrsoyjrcfruhzridrVotranjuecnjtreirtcavrohvcquhoez—huz,reirtiqjevohs
tirqcavrpjxi rjyjhrpnceuxoezroetjxd—utreirwjyicnroetri hr.ohw:rpcerut
evotrjhwjwrohrtiqjr(uerevuereoqj)rdncoexjttrtfjacxueoiht,roeriaacnnjwrei
qjreirohlconjr vuerfuneridrevjr inxwrevjtjr njeavjtrxoyjwroh?rvi rdunridd
evjraiuter utrdniqr vjhajrevjzrauqj?r vuerevjzryjhecnjwriyjnrtirdunrdniq
viqjrdin?r vuer.ohwridrpiuetrevjzrvuw?ruhwr vzrOrqosverhierinwjnrqztjxd
uhwrqzrpctohjttrtirevuerOrqosverpjrupxjreirsiriyjnrevoevjn,rutrevjzr jnj
eiraiqjreirqj?

Orhjyjnrtirqcavrutrenicpxjwrqztjxdreiraihtowjnr vuerOrtvicxwrwir oev
qztjxdr vjhrOr jherevoevjn;r vuer icxwrpjaiqjridrqjrodrOrdjxxroheirevj
vuhwtridrevjtjrtuyusjt;rinrvi rOrtvicxwrjtaufjrevjqrodrevjzrueeua.jwrqj;
hi,rhinrtirqcavrutrvi roer utrfittopxjrdinrqjreirnjuavrevjraiute,ruhwrhie
eirpjrueeua.jwrpzrtiqjrinrievjnridrevjq,r oeviceruhzrfittopoxoezrid
wjxoyjnohsrqztjxd;ruhwrodrOrtvicxwrhierduxxroheirevjonrvuhwt,r vuerO
tvicxwrwirdinrfniyotoih,rinr voevjnrOrtvicxwrpjhwrqzraicntj;rhihjrid
evjtjrevicsvet,rOrtuz,rtirqcavrutrauqjrohrqzr uz;rpcerqzrqohwr utr vixxz
pjhercfihrevjrhieoihridrqzrfuttohsriyjnrohrqzrpiuereirevjrquohxuhwkrrO
xii.jwrcfihrqzrfnjtjheraihwoeoihrutrevjrqiterqotjnupxjrevueraicxw
fittopxzrpj;revuerOr utrhierupxjreirevni rqztjxdroheiruhzevohsrpcerwjuev,
evueraicxwrpjrauxxjwr intj;ruhwrodrOrnjuavjwrevjrtvinjridrevjrquohrO
qosverfjnvuftrqjjer oevrnjxojd,rinrOrqosveraiuteruxihs,rutrOrwowrihrevj
Udnoauhrtvinj,reoxxrOrauqjreirtiqjrohvupoejwraichenz,ruhwr vjnjrOrqosve
dohwrtiqjrnjxojd;ruhwrudejnruxx,rfjnvuftrOrqosverduxxrohr oevrtiqj
Avnoteouhrtvofrevuerqosvereu.jrqjroh:ruhwrodrevjr interauqjreirevjr inte,
Oraicxwrpcerwoj,r voavr icxwrfceruhrjhwreiruxxrevjtjrqotjnojtruerihajk
Fnuzrhiej,ruxxrevotr utrevjrdncoeridrurwotecnpjwrqohw,ruhroqfueojhe
ejqfjn,rquwjrwjtfjnuej,rutroer jnj,rpzrevjrxihsraiheohcuhajridrqz
enicpxjt,ruhwrevjrwotuffioheqjhetrOrvuwrqjerohrevjr nja.rOrvuwrpjjhrih
piunwrid,ruhwr vjnjrOrvuwrpjjhrtirhjunripeuohohsr vuerOrtirjunhjtexz
xihsjwrdin—tiqjpiwzreirtfju.rei,ruhwreirxjunhrtiqjr.hi xjwsjrdniqrevjqrid
evjrfxuajr vjnjrOr ut,ruhwridrevjrfnipupxjrqjuhtridrqzrwjxoyjnuhajkrrO
 utrusoeuejwr vixxzrpzrevjtjrevicsvet;ruxxrqzrauxqridrqohw,rohrqz
njtoshueoihreirFniyowjhaj,ruhwr uoeohsrevjrottcjridrevjrwotfitoeoihtrid
Vjuyjh,rtjjqjwreirpjrtctfjhwjw;ruhwrOrvuwrutroer jnjrhirfi jnreirecnhrqz
evicsvetreiruhzevohsrpcereirevjrfnibjaeridruryizusjreirevjrquoh,r voav
auqjrcfihrqjr oevrtcavrdinaj,ruhwrtcavruhroqfjecitoezridrwjtonj,revueroe
 utrhiereirpjrnjtotejwk

 vjhrevotrvuwrusoeuejwrqzrevicsvetrdinre irvicntrinrqinj,r oevrtcav
yoixjhajrevueroertjerqzryjnzrpxiiwroheirurdjnqjhe,ruhwrqzrfcxtjrpjuerut
odrOrvuwrpjjhrohrurdjyjn,rqjnjxzr oevrevjrjmenuinwohunzrdjnyicnridrqz
qohwrupiceroe,rHuecnj—utrodrOrvuwrpjjhrdueoscjwruhwrjmvuctejwr oevrevj
yjnzrevicsvetridroe—evnj rqjroheirurtichwrtxjjfkrrIhjr icxwrvuyjrevicsve
Ortvicxwrvuyjrwnjuqjwridroe,rpcerOrwowrhie,rhinridruhzevohsrnjxueohsrei
oe,rpcerOrwnjuqjwrevuerutrOr utrsiohsricerohrevjrqinhohsrutrctcuxrdniqrqz
autexj,rOrtu rcfihrevjrtvinjre irauhijtruhwrjxjyjhrtuyusjtraiqohsrei
xuhw,ruhwrevuerevjzrpnicsver oevrevjqruhievjnrtuyusjr viqrevjzr jnjrsiohs
eir.oxxrohrinwjnreirjuervoq;r vjh,rihrurtcwwjh,revjrtuyusjrevuerevjzr jnj
siohsreir.oxxrbcqfjwru uz,ruhwrnuhrdinrvotrxodj;ruhwrOrevicsverohrqz
txjjfrevuervjrauqjrnchhohsroheirqzrxoeexjrevoa.rsniyjrpjdinjrqz
dineodoaueoih,reirvowjrvoqtjxd;ruhwrevuerOrtjjohsrvoqruxihj,ruhwrhie
fjnajoyohsrevuerevjrievjntrticsvervoqrevuer uz,rtvi jwrqztjxdreirvoq,ruhw
tqoxohsrcfihrvoq,rjhaicnusjwrvoq:revuervjr.hjjxjwrwi hreirqj,rtjjqohsrei
fnuzrqjreiruttotervoq;rcfihr voavrOrtvi jwrvoqrqzrxuwwjn,rquwjrvoqrsircf,
uhwraunnojwrvoqroheirqzrauyj,ruhwrvjrpjauqjrqzrtjnyuhe;ruhwrevuerutrtiih
utrOrvuwrsierevotrquh,rOrtuowreirqztjxd,r“Hi rOrquzrajneuohxzryjhecnjrei
evjrquohxuhw,rdinrevotrdjxxi r oxxrtjnyjrqjrutrurfoxie,ruhwr oxxrejxxrqj
 vuereirwi,ruhwr voevjnreirsirdinrfniyotoiht,ruhwr voevjnrhiereirsirdin
djunridrpjohsrwjyicnjw;r vuerfxuajtreiryjhecnjrohei,ruhwr vuereirtvchk”
Or u.jwr oevrevotrevicsve;ruhwr utrchwjnrtcavrohjmfnjttopxjroqfnjttoiht
idrbizruerevjrfnitfjaeridrqzrjtaufjrohrqzrwnjuq,revuerevjrwotuffioheqjhet
 voavrOrdjxercfihraiqohsreirqztjxd,ruhwrdohwohsrevueroer utrhirqinjrevuh
urwnjuq,r jnjrjlcuxxzrjmenuyusuherevjrievjnr uz,ruhwrevnj rqjroheiruryjnz
snjuerwjbjaeoihridrtfonoetk

Cfihrevot,rvi jyjn,rOrquwjrevotraihaxctoih:revuerqzrihxzr uzreirsirupice
eirueejqferuhrjtaufjr ut,reirjhwjuyicnreirsjerurtuyusjroheirqz
fittjttoih:ruhw,rodrfittopxj,roertvicxwrpjrihjridrevjonrfnotihjnt,r viq
evjzrvuwraihwjqhjwreirpjrjuejh,ruhwrtvicxwrpnohsrvoevjnreir.oxxkrrPce
evjtjrevicsvetrteoxxr jnjrueejhwjwr oevrevotrwoddoacxez:revueroer ut
oqfittopxjreirjddjaerevotr oevicerueeua.ohsrur vixjraunuyuhridrevjq,ruhw
.oxxohsrevjqruxx;ruhwrevotr utrhierihxzruryjnzrwjtfjnuejrueejqfe,ruhw
qosverqotaunnz,rpce,rihrevjrievjnrvuhw,rOrvuwrsnjuexzrtancfxjwrevj
xu dcxhjttridroereirqztjxd;ruhwrqzrvjunerenjqpxjwruerevjrevicsvetrid
tvjwwohsrtirqcavrpxiiw,revicsvroer utrdinrqzrwjxoyjnuhajkrrOrhjjwrhie
njfjuerevjrunscqjhetr voavriaacnnjwreirqjrusuohterevot,revjzrpjohsrevj
tuqjrqjheoihjwrpjdinj;rpcerevicsvrOrvuwrievjnrnjutihtreiriddjnrhi —yogk
evuerevitjrqjhr jnjrjhjqojtreirqzrxodj,ruhwr icxwrwjyicnrqjrodrevjz
aicxw;revueroer utrtjxd-fnjtjnyueoih,rohrevjrvosvjterwjsnjj,reirwjxoyjn
qztjxdrdniqrevotrwjuevridrurxodj,ruhwr utruaeohsrohrqzri hrwjdjhajrut
qcavrutrodrevjzr jnjruaecuxxzruttucxeohsrqj,ruhwrevjrxo.j;rOrtuzrevicsv
evjtjrevohstrunscjwrdinroe,rzjerevjrevicsvetridrtvjwwohsrvcquhrpxiiwrdin
qzrwjxoyjnuhajr jnjryjnzrejnnopxjreirqj,ruhwrtcavrutrOraicxwrpzrhirqjuht
njaihaoxjrqztjxdreirdinrursnjuer voxjkrrVi jyjn,ruerxute,rudejnrquhz
tjanjerwotfcejtr oevrqztjxd,ruhwrudejnrsnjuerfjnfxjmoeojtrupiceroer(din
uxxrevjtjrunscqjhet,rihjr uzruhwruhievjn,rtencssxjwrohrqzrvjuwrurxihs
eoqj),revjrjusjnrfnjyuoxohsrwjtonjridrwjxoyjnuhajruerxjhsevrqutejnjwruxx
evjrnjte;ruhwrOrnjtixyjw,rodrfittopxj,reirsjerihjridrevjtjrtuyusjtrohei
qzrvuhwt,raiter vueroer icxwkrrQzrhjmerevohsr utreiraihenoyjrvi reirwi
oe,ruhwrevot,rohwjjw,r utryjnzrwoddoacxereirnjtixyjrih;rpcerutrOraicxw
foeavrcfihrhirfnipupxjrqjuhtrdinroe,rtirOrnjtixyjwreirfcerqztjxdrcfihrevj
 ueav,reirtjjrevjqr vjhrevjzrauqjrihrtvinj,ruhwrxjuyjrevjrnjtereirevj
jyjhe;reu.ohsrtcavrqjutcnjtrutrevjriffinechoezrtvicxwrfnjtjhe,rxjer vue
 icxwrpjk

 oevrevjtjrnjtixceoihtrohrqzrevicsvet,rOrtjerqztjxdrcfihrevjrtaicerut
idejhrutrfittopxj,ruhwrohwjjwrtiridejhrevuerOr utrvjuneoxzreonjwridroe;
dinroer utrupiyjrurzjunruhwrurvuxdrevuerOr uoejw;ruhwrdinrsnjuerfunerid
evuereoqjr jhericereirevjr jterjhw,ruhwreirevjrticev- jterainhjnridrevj
otxuhwruxqiterjyjnzrwuz,reirxii.rdinrauhijt,rpcerhihjruffjunjwkrrEvotr ut
yjnzrwotaicnusohs,ruhwrpjsuhreirenicpxjrqjrqcav,revicsvrOrauhhiertuzrevue
oerwowrohrevotrautjr(utroervuwrwihjrtiqjreoqjrpjdinj)r junriddrevjrjwsj
idrqzrwjtonjreirevjrevohs;rpcerevjrxihsjnroertjjqjwreirpjrwjxuzjw,revj
qinjrjusjnrOr utrdinroe:rohrur inw,rOr utrhieruerdontertiraunjdcxreirtvch
evjrtosveridrevjtjrtuyusjt,ruhwruyiowrpjohsrtjjhrpzrevjq,rutrOr utrhi 
jusjnreirpjrcfihrevjqkrrPjtowjt,rOrduhaojwrqztjxdrupxjreirquhusjrihj,
huz,re irinrevnjjrtuyusjt,rodrOrvuwrevjq,rtirutreirqu.jrevjqrjheonjxz
txuyjtreirqj,reirwir vuejyjnrOrtvicxwrwonjaerevjq,ruhwreirfnjyjherevjon
pjohsrupxjrueruhzreoqjreirwirqjruhzrvcnekrrOer utrursnjuer voxjrevuerO
fxjutjwrqztjxdr oevrevotrudduon;rpcerhievohsrteoxxrfnjtjhejwroetjxd;ruxx
qzrduhaojtruhwrtavjqjtrauqjreirhievohs,rdinrhirtuyusjtrauqjrhjunrqjrdinru
snjuer voxjk

UpicerurzjunruhwrurvuxdrudejnrOrjhejneuohjwrevjtjrhieoihtr(uhwrpzrxihs
qctohsrvuw,rutroer jnj,rnjtixyjwrevjqruxxroheirhievohs,rdinr uheridruh
iaautoihreirfcerevjqroheirjmjaceoih),rOr utrtcnfnotjwrihjrqinhohsrpz
tjjohsrhirxjttrevuhrdoyjrauhijtruxxrihrtvinjreisjevjnrihrqzrtowjrevj
otxuhw,ruhwrevjrfjifxjr virpjxihsjwreirevjqruxxrxuhwjwruhwriceridrqz
tosvekrrEvjrhcqpjnridrevjqrpni.jruxxrqzrqjutcnjt;rdinrtjjohsrtirquhz,ruhw
.hi ohsrevuerevjzrux uztrauqjrdicnrinrtom,rinrtiqjeoqjtrqinjrohrurpiue,rO
aicxwrhierejxxr vuereirevoh.ridroe,rinrvi reireu.jrqzrqjutcnjtreirueeua.
e jhezrinrevonezrqjhrtohsxj-vuhwjw;rtirxuzrteoxxrohrqzrautexj,rfjnfxjmjw
uhwrwotaiqdinejwkrrVi jyjn,rOrfcerqztjxdroheirevjrtuqjrfitoeoihrdinruh
ueeua.revuerOrvuwrdinqjnxzrfniyowjw,ruhwr utrbcternjuwzrdinruaeoih,rod
uhzevohsrvuwrfnjtjhejwkrrVuyohsr uoejwrursiiwr voxj,rxotejhohsreirvjunrod
evjzrquwjruhzrhiotj,ruerxjhsev,rpjohsryjnzroqfueojhe,rOrtjerqzrschtrue
evjrdiieridrqzrxuwwjn,ruhwraxuqpjnjwrcfreirevjreifridrevjrvoxx,rpzrqzre i
teusjt,rutrctcux;rteuhwohsrti,rvi jyjn,revuerqzrvjuwrwowrhieruffjunrupiyj
evjrvoxx,rtirevuerevjzraicxwrhierfjnajoyjrqjrpzruhzrqjuhtkrrVjnjrO
iptjnyjw,rpzrevjrvjxfridrqzrfjntfjaeoyjrsxutt,revuerevjzr jnjrhirxjtt
evuhrevonezrohrhcqpjn;revuerevjzrvuwrurdonjr.ohwxjw,ruhwrevuerevjzrvuw
qjuerwnjttjwkrrVi revjzrvuwraii.jwroerOr.hj rhie,rinr vueroer ut;rpce
evjzr jnjruxxrwuhaohs,rohrOr.hi rhiervi rquhzrpunpunictrsjtecnjtruhw
doscnjt,revjonri hr uz,rnichwrevjrdonjk

 voxjrOr utrevctrxii.ohsrihrevjq,rOrfjnajoyjw,rpzrqzrfjntfjaeoyj,re i
qotjnupxjr njeavjtrwnussjwrdniqrevjrpiuet,r vjnj,roertjjqt,revjzr jnj
xuowrpz,ruhwr jnjrhi rpnicsvericerdinrevjrtxucsvejnkrrOrfjnajoyjwrihjrid
evjqroqqjwouejxzrduxx;rpjohsr.hia.jwrwi h,rOrtcffitj,r oevruraxcprin
 iiwjhrt inw,rdinrevuer utrevjonr uz;ruhwre irinrevnjjrievjntr jnjrue
 in.roqqjwouejxz,raceeohsrvoqrifjhrdinrevjonraii.jnz,r voxjrevjrievjn
yoaeoqr utrxjderteuhwohsrpzrvoqtjxd,reoxxrevjzrtvicxwrpjrnjuwzrdinrvoqk
Ohrevueryjnzrqiqjherevotrfiinr njeav,rtjjohsrvoqtjxdrurxoeexjruerxopjnez
uhwrchpichw,rHuecnjrohtfonjwrvoqr oevrvifjtridrxodj,ruhwrvjrteunejwru uz
dniqrevjq,ruhwrnuhr oevrohanjwopxjrt odehjttruxihsrevjrtuhwt,rwonjaexz
ei unwtrqj;rOrqjuhrei unwtrevuerfuneridrevjraiuter vjnjrqzrvupoeueoih
 utkrrOr utrwnjuwdcxxzrdnosvejhjw,rOrqcterua.hi xjwsj,r vjhrOrfjnajoyjw
voqrnchrqzr uz;ruhwrjtfjaouxxzr vjh,rutrOrevicsve,rOrtu rvoqrfcntcjwrpz
evjr vixjrpiwz:ruhwrhi rOrjmfjaejwrevuerfuneridrqzrwnjuqr utraiqohsrei
futt,ruhwrevuervjr icxwrajneuohxzreu.jrtvjxejnrohrqzrsniyj;rpcerOraicxw
hierwjfjhw,rpzruhzrqjuht,rcfihrqzrwnjuq,revuerevjrievjnrtuyusjtr icxwrhie
fcntcjrvoqrevoevjnruhwrdohwrvoqrevjnjkrrVi jyjn,rOr.jferqzrteueoih,ruhw
qzrtfonoetrpjsuhreirnjaiyjnr vjhrOrdichwrevuerevjnjr utrhierupiyjrevnjj
qjhrevuerdixxi jwrvoq;ruhwrteoxxrqinjr utrOrjhaicnusjw,r vjhrOrdichwrevue
vjricetenoffjwrevjqrjmajjwohsxzrohrnchhohs,ruhwrsuohjwrsnichwrihrevjq;rti
evue,rodrvjraicxwrpcervixwricerdinrvuxd-uh-vicn,rOrtu rjutoxzrvjr icxw
duonxzrsjeru uzrdniqrevjqruxxk

Evjnjr utrpje jjhrevjqruhwrqzrautexjrevjranjj.,r voavrOrqjheoihjwridejh
ohrevjrdonterfuneridrqzrteinz,r vjnjrOrxuhwjwrqzraunsijtriceridrevjrtvof;
uhwrevotrOrtu rfxuohxzrvjrqcterhjajttunoxzrt oqriyjn,rinrevjrfiinr njeav
 icxwrpjreu.jhrevjnj;rpcer vjhrevjrtuyusjrjtaufohsrauqjrevoevjn,rvjrquwj
hievohsridroe,revicsvrevjreowjr utrevjhrcf;rpcerfxchsohsroh,rt uqrevnicsv
ohrupicerevonezrteni.jt,rinrevjnjupicet,rxuhwjw,ruhwrnuhr oevrjmajjwohs
tenjhsevruhwrt odehjttkrr vjhrevjrevnjjrfjntihtrauqjreirevjranjj.,rO
dichwrevuere iridrevjqraicxwrt oq,rpcerevjrevonwraicxwrhie,ruhwrevue,
teuhwohsrihrevjrievjnrtowj,rvjrxii.jwruerevjrievjnt,rpcer jherhirdunevjn,
uhwrtiihrudejnr jhertidexzrpua.rusuoh;r voav,rutroervuffjhjw,r utryjnz
 jxxrdinrvoqrohrevjrjhwkrrOriptjnyjwrevuerevjre ir virt uqr jnjrzjerqinj
evuhre oajrutrtenihsrt oqqohsriyjnrevjranjj.rutrevjrdjxxi r utrevuerdxjw
dniqrevjqkrrOerauqjryjnzr unqxzrcfihrqzrevicsvet,ruhwrohwjjw
onnjtoteopxz,revuerhi r utrevjreoqjreirsjerqjrurtjnyuhe,ruhw,rfjnvuft,ru
aiqfuhoihrinruttoteuhe;ruhwrevuerOr utrfxuohxzrauxxjwrpzrFniyowjhajrei
tuyjrevotrfiinranjuecnj’trxodjkrrOroqqjwouejxzrnuhrwi hrevjrxuwwjntr oev
uxxrfittopxjrjmfjwoeoih,rdjeavjwrqzre irscht,rdinrevjzr jnjrpievruerevj
diieridrevjrxuwwjnt,rutrOriptjnyjwrpjdinj,ruhwrsjeeohsrcfrusuohr oevrevj
tuqjrvutejreirevjreifridrevjrvoxx,rOranittjwrei unwtrevjrtju;ruhwrvuyohs
uryjnzrtvinerace,ruhwruxxrwi hrvoxx,rfxuajwrqztjxdrohrevjr uzrpje jjhrevj
fcntcjntruhwrevjrfcntcjw,rvuxxi ohsruxicwreirvoqrevuerdxjw,r vi,rxii.ohs
pua.,r utruerdonterfjnvuftrutrqcavrdnosvejhjwruerqjrutruerevjq;rpcerO
pja.ihjwr oevrqzrvuhwreirvoqreiraiqjrpua.;ruhw,rohrevjrqjuheoqj,rOrtxi xz
uwyuhajwrei unwtrevjre irevuerdixxi jw;revjhrnctvohsruerihajrcfihrevj
dinjqite,rOr.hia.jwrvoqrwi hr oevrevjrteia.ridrqzrfojajkrrOr utrxiuevrei
donj,rpjauctjrOr icxwrhiervuyjrevjrnjtervjun;revicsv,ruerevuerwoteuhaj,
oer icxwrhiervuyjrpjjhrjutoxzrvjunw,ruhwrpjohsriceridrtosveridrevjrtqi.j,
eii,revjzr icxwrhiervuyjr.hi hr vuereirqu.jridroekrrVuyohsr.hia.jwrevot
djxxi rwi h,revjrievjnr virfcntcjwrvoqrteiffjw,rutrodrvjrvuwrpjjh
dnosvejhjw,ruhwrOruwyuhajwrei unwtrvoq:rpcerutrOrauqjrhjunjn,rOrfjnajoyjw
fnjtjhexzrvjrvuwrurpi ruhwrunni ,ruhwr utrdoeeohsroereirtviieruerqj:rtirO
 utrevjhripxosjwreirtviieruervoqrdonte,r voavrOrwow,ruhwr.oxxjwrvoqrue
evjrdontertviekrrEvjrfiinrtuyusjr virdxjw,rpcervuwrteiffjw,revicsvrvjrtu 
pievrvotrjhjqojtrduxxjhruhwr.oxxjw,rutrvjrevicsve,rzjer utrtirdnosvejhjw
 oevrevjrdonjruhwrhiotjridrqzrfojajrevuervjrteiiwrteia.rteoxx,ruhw
hjoevjnrauqjrdin unwrhinr jherpua. unw,revicsvrvjrtjjqjwrnuevjnrohaxohjw
teoxxreirdxzrevuhreiraiqjrihkrrOrvuxxiijwrusuohreirvoq,ruhwrquwjrtoshtrei
aiqjrdin unw,r voavrvjrjutoxzrchwjnteiiw,ruhwrauqjrurxoeexjr uz;revjh
teiffjwrusuoh,ruhwrevjhrurxoeexjrdunevjn,ruhwrteiffjwrusuoh;ruhwrOraicxw
evjhrfjnajoyjrevuervjrteiiwrenjqpxohs,rutrodrvjrvuwrpjjhreu.jhrfnotihjn,
uhwrvuwrbcterpjjhreirpjr.oxxjw,rutrvotre irjhjqojtr jnjkrrOrpja.ihjwrei
voqrusuohreiraiqjreirqj,ruhwrsuyjrvoqruxxrevjrtoshtridrjhaicnusjqjherevue
Oraicxwrevoh.rid;ruhwrvjrauqjrhjunjnruhwrhjunjn,r.hjjxohsrwi hrjyjnzrejh
inre jxyjrtejft,rohrei.jhridrua.hi xjwsqjherdinrtuyohsrvotrxodjkrrO
tqoxjwruervoq,ruhwrxii.jwrfxjutuhexz,ruhwrpja.ihjwreirvoqreiraiqjrteoxx
hjunjn;ruerxjhsevrvjrauqjraxitjreirqj;ruhwrevjhrvjr.hjjxjwrwi hrusuoh,
.ottjwrevjrsnichw,ruhwrxuowrvotrvjuwrcfihrevjrsnichw,ruhwreu.ohsrqjrpz
evjrdiie,rtjerqzrdiiercfihrvotrvjuw;revot,roertjjqt,r utrohrei.jhrid
t junohsreirpjrqzrtxuyjrdinrjyjnkrrOreii.rvoqrcfruhwrquwjrqcavridrvoq,
uhwrjhaicnusjwrvoqruxxrOraicxwkrrPcerevjnjr utrqinjr in.reirwirzje;rdinrO
fjnajoyjwrevjrtuyusjr viqrOrvuwr.hia.jwrwi hr utrhier.oxxjw,rpcertechhjw
 oevrevjrpxi ,ruhwrpjsuhreiraiqjreirvoqtjxd:rtirOrfiohejwreirvoq,ruhw
tvi jwrvoqrevjrtuyusj,revuervjr utrhierwjuw;rcfihrevotrvjrtfi.jrtiqj
 inwtreirqj,ruhwrevicsvrOraicxwrhierchwjnteuhwrevjq,rzjerOrevicsverevjz
 jnjrfxjutuhereirvjun;rdinrevjzr jnjrevjrdontertichwridrurquh’tryioaj
evuerOrvuwrvjunw,rqzri hrjmajfejw,rdinrupiyjre jhez-doyjrzjuntkrrPce
evjnjr utrhireoqjrdinrtcavrnjdxjaeoihtrhi ;revjrtuyusjr vir utr.hia.jw
wi hrnjaiyjnjwrvoqtjxdrtirdunrutreirtoercfrcfihrevjrsnichw,ruhwrO
fjnajoyjwrevuerqzrtuyusjrpjsuhreirpjrudnuow;rpcer vjhrOrtu revue,rO
fnjtjhejwrqzrievjnrfojajruerevjrquh,rutrodrOr icxwrtviiervoq:rcfihrevot
qzrtuyusj,rdinrtirOrauxxrvoqrhi ,rquwjrurqieoihreirqjreirxjhwrvoqrqz
t inw,r voavrvchsrhu.jwrohrurpjxerpzrqzrtowj,r voavrOrwowkrrVjrhirtiihjn
vuwroe,rpcervjrnchtreirvotrjhjqz,ruhwruerihjrpxi raceriddrvotrvjuwrti
axjyjnxz,rhirjmjaceoihjnrohrSjnquhzraicxwrvuyjrwihjroertiihjnrinrpjeejn;
 voavrOrevicsveryjnzrtenuhsjrdinrihjr vi,rOrvuwrnjutihreirpjxojyj,rhjyjn
tu rurt inwrohrvotrxodjrpjdinj,rjmajferevjonri hr iiwjhrt inwt:rvi jyjn,
oertjjqt,rutrOrxjunhjwrudejn unwt,revjzrqu.jrevjonr iiwjhrt inwtrti
tvunf,rtirvjuyz,ruhwrevjr iiwrotrtirvunw,revuerevjzr oxxrjyjhraceridd
vjuwtr oevrevjq,ruz,ruhwrunqt,ruhwrevueruerihjrpxi ,reiikrr vjhrvjrvuw
wihjrevot,rvjraiqjtrxucsvohsreirqjrohrtoshridrenocqfv,ruhwrpnicsverqjrevj
t inwrusuoh,ruhwr oevrupchwuhajridrsjtecnjtr voavrOrwowrhierchwjnteuhw,
xuowroerwi h,r oevrevjrvjuwridrevjrtuyusjrevuervjrvuwr.oxxjw,rbcterpjdinj
qjkrrPcerevuer voavruteihotvjwrvoqrqiter utreir.hi rvi rOr.oxxjwrevj
ievjnrOhwouhrtirdunridd;rti,rfioheohsreirvoq,rvjrquwjrtoshtreirqjreirxje
voqrsireirvoq;ruhwrOrpuwjrvoqrsi,rutr jxxrutrOraicxwkrr vjhrvjrauqjrei
voq,rvjrteiiwrxo.jrihjruqugjw,rxii.ohsruervoq,recnhohsrvoqrdonterihrihj
towj,revjhrihrevjrievjn;rxii.jwruerevjr ichwrevjrpcxxjervuwrquwj,r voav
oertjjqtr utrbcterohrvotrpnjute,r vjnjroervuwrquwjrurvixj,ruhwrhirsnjue
lcuheoezridrpxiiwrvuwrdixxi jw;rpcervjrvuwrpxjwroh unwxz,rdinrvjr ut
lcoejrwjuwkrrVjreii.rcfrvotrpi ruhwrunni t,ruhwrauqjrpua.;rtirOrecnhjwrei
siru uz,ruhwrpja.ihjwrvoqreirdixxi rqj,rqu.ohsrtoshtreirvoqrevuerqinj
qosveraiqjrudejnrevjqkrrCfihrevotrvjrquwjrtoshtreirqjrevuervjrtvicxwrpcnz
evjqr oevrtuhw,revuerevjzrqosverhierpjrtjjhrpzrevjrnjte,rodrevjz
dixxi jw;ruhwrtirOrquwjrtoshtreirvoqrusuohreirwirtikrrVjrdjxxreir in.;
uhwrohruhrohteuhervjrvuwrtanufjwrurvixjrohrevjrtuhwr oevrvotrvuhwtrpos
jhicsvreirpcnzrevjrdonteroh,ruhwrevjhrwnussjwrvoqroheiroe,ruhwraiyjnjw
voq;ruhwrwowrtirpzrevjrievjnruxti;rOrpjxojyjrvjrvuwrvoqrpcnojwrevjqrpiev
ohrurlcunejnridruhrvicnkrrEvjh,rauxxohsru uz,rOraunnojwrvoq,rhiereirqz
autexj,rpcerlcoejru uzreirqzrauyj,rihrevjrdunevjnrfuneridrevjrotxuhw:rti
Orwowrhierxjerqzrwnjuqraiqjreirfuttrohrevuerfune,revuervjrauqjroheirqz
sniyjrdinrtvjxejnkrrVjnjrOrsuyjrvoqrpnjuwruhwrurpchavridrnuotohtreirjue,
uhwrurwnucsveridr uejn,r voavrOrdichwrvjr utrohwjjwrohrsnjuerwotenjtt
din,rdniqrvotrnchhohs:ruhwrvuyohsrnjdnjtvjwrvoq,rOrquwjrtoshtrdinrvoqrei
siruhwrxojrwi hreirtxjjf,rtvi ohsrvoqrurfxuajr vjnjrOrvuwrxuowrtiqj
noaj-tenu ,ruhwrurpxuh.jercfihroe,r voavrOrctjwreirtxjjfrcfihrqztjxd
tiqjeoqjt;rtirevjrfiinranjuecnjrxuzrwi h,ruhwr jhereirtxjjfk

Vjr utruraiqjxz,rvuhwtiqjrdjxxi ,rfjndjaexzr jxxrquwj,r oevrtenuosve,
tenihsrxoqpt,rhiereiirxunsj;reuxx,ruhwr jxx-tvufjw;ruhw,rutrOrnja.ih,
upicere jhez-tomrzjuntridrusjkrrVjrvuwruryjnzrsiiwraichejhuhaj,rhieru
dojnajruhwrtcnxzrutfjae,rpcertjjqjwreirvuyjrtiqjevohsryjnzrquhxzrohrvot
duaj;ruhwrzjervjrvuwruxxrevjrt jjehjttruhwrtidehjttridrurJcnifjuhrohrvot
aichejhuhaj,reii,rjtfjaouxxzr vjhrvjrtqoxjwkrrVotrvuonr utrxihsruhw
pxua.,rhieracnxjwrxo.jr iix;rvotrdinjvjuwryjnzrvosvruhwrxunsj;ruhwru
snjueryoyuaoezruhwrtfun.xohsrtvunfhjttrohrvotrjzjtkrrEvjraixicnridrvot
t.ohr utrhierlcoejrpxua.,rpceryjnzreu hz;ruhwrzjerhieruhrcsxz,rzjxxi ,
huctjictreu hz,rutrevjrPnugoxouhtruhwrYonsohouht,ruhwrievjnrhueoyjtrid
Uqjnoaurunj,rpceridrurpnosver.ohwridrurwchrixoyj-aixicn,revuervuwrohroe
tiqjevohsryjnzrusnjjupxj,revicsvrhieryjnzrjutzreirwjtanopjkrrVotrduajr ut
nichwruhwrfxcqf;rvotrhitjrtquxx,rhierdxue,rxo.jrevjrhjsnijt;ruryjnzrsiiw
qicev,revohrxoft,ruhwrvotrdohjrejjevr jxxrtje,ruhwrutr voejrutroyinzk

Udejnrvjrvuwrtxcqpjnjw,rnuevjnrevuhrtxjfe,rupicervuxd-uh-vicn,rvjru i.j
usuoh,ruhwrauqjriceridrevjrauyjreirqj,rdinrOrvuwrpjjhrqox.ohsrqzrsiuet
 voavrOrvuwrohrevjrjhaxitcnjrbcterpz:r vjhrvjrjtfojwrqjrvjrauqjrnchhohs
eirqj,rxuzohsrvoqtjxdrwi hrusuohrcfihrevjrsnichw,r oevruxxrevjrfittopxj
toshtridruhrvcqpxj,revuh.dcxrwotfitoeoih,rqu.ohsrursnjuerquhzruheoa
sjtecnjtreirtvi roekrrUerxutervjrxuztrvotrvjuwrdxuercfihrevjrsnichw,
axitjreirqzrdiie,ruhwrtjetrqzrievjnrdiiercfihrvotrvjuw,rutrvjrvuwrwihj
pjdinj;ruhwrudejnrevotrquwjruxxrevjrtoshtreirqjridrtcpbjaeoih,rtjnyoecwj,
uhwrtcpqottoihroqusohupxj,reirxjerqjr.hi rvi rvjr icxwrtjnyjrqjrtirxihs
utrvjrxoyjwkrrOrchwjnteiiwrvoqrohrquhzrevohst,ruhwrxjervoqr.hi rOr ut
yjnzr jxxrfxjutjwr oevrvoqkrrOhrurxoeexjreoqjrOrpjsuhreirtfju.reirvoq;
uhwrejuavrvoqreirtfju.reirqj;ruhwrdonte,rOrxjervoqr.hi rvotrhuqjrtvicxw
pjrDnowuz,r voavr utrevjrwuzrOrtuyjwrvotrxodj;rOrauxxjwrvoqrtirdinrevj
qjqinzridrevjreoqjkrrOrxo.j otjreucsvervoqreirtuzrQutejn;ruhwrevjhrxje
voqr.hi revuer utreirpjrqzrhuqj;rOrxo.j otjreucsvervoqreirtuzrZjtruhwrHi
uhwreir.hi revjrqjuhohsridrevjqkrrOrsuyjrvoqrtiqjrqox.rohruhrjunevjhrfie,
uhwrxjervoqrtjjrqjrwnoh.roerpjdinjrvoq,ruhwrtifrqzrpnjuwrohroe;ruhwrsuyj
voqrurau.jridrpnjuwreirwirevjrxo.j,r voavrvjrlcoa.xzraiqfxojwr oev,ruhw
quwjrtoshtrevueroer utryjnzrsiiwrdinrvoqkrrOr.jferevjnjr oevrvoqruxxrevue
hosve;rpcerutrtiihrutroer utrwuzrOrpja.ihjwreirvoqreiraiqjr oevrqj,ruhw
xjervoqr.hi rOr icxwrsoyjrvoqrtiqjraxievjt;ruer voavrvjrtjjqjwryjnzrsxuw,
dinrvjr utrteun.rhu.jwkrrUtr jr jherpzrevjrfxuajr vjnjrvjrvuwrpcnojwrevj
e irqjh,rvjrfiohejwrjmuaexzreirevjrfxuaj,ruhwrtvi jwrqjrevjrqun.trevuervj
vuwrquwjreirdohwrevjqrusuoh,rqu.ohsrtoshtreirqjrevuer jrtvicxwrwosrevjq
cfrusuohruhwrjuerevjqkrrUerevotrOruffjunjwryjnzruhsnz,rjmfnjttjwrqz
upvinnjhajridroe,rquwjrutrodrOr icxwryiqoeruerevjrevicsvetridroe,ruhw
pja.ihjwr oevrqzrvuhwreirvoqreiraiqjru uz,r voavrvjrwowroqqjwouejxz,r oev
snjuertcpqottoihkrrOrevjhrxjwrvoqrcfreirevjreifridrevjrvoxx,reirtjjrod
votrjhjqojtr jnjrsihj;ruhwrfcxxohsricerqzrsxuttrOrxii.jw,ruhwrtu rfxuohxz
evjrfxuajr vjnjrevjzrvuwrpjjh,rpcerhiruffjunuhajridrevjqrinrevjonrauhijt;
tirevueroer utrfxuohrevjzr jnjrsihj,ruhwrvuwrxjderevjonre iraiqnuwjt
pjvohwrevjq,r oeviceruhzrtjunavrudejnrevjqk

PcerOr utrhieraihejher oevrevotrwotaiyjnz;rpcervuyohsrhi rqinjraicnusj,
uhwraihtjlcjhexzrqinjracnoitoez,rOreii.rqzrquhrDnowuzr oevrqj,rsoyohsrvoq
evjrt inwrohrvotrvuhw,r oevrevjrpi ruhwrunni truervotrpua.,r voavrOrdichw
vjraicxwrctjryjnzrwjmejnictxz,rqu.ohsrvoqraunnzrihjrschrdinrqj,ruhwrOre i
dinrqztjxd;ruhwru uzr jrqunavjwreirevjrfxuajr vjnjrevjtjranjuecnjtrvuw
pjjh;rdinrOrvuwrurqohwrhi reirsjertiqjrdcnevjnrohejxxosjhajridrevjqk
 vjhrOrauqjreirevjrfxuajrqzryjnzrpxiiwrnuhravoxxrohrqzryjoht,ruhwrqz
vjunertch.r oevohrqj,ruerevjrvinninridrevjrtfjaeuaxj;rohwjjw,roer utru
wnjuwdcxrtosve,ruerxjuteroer utrtireirqj,revicsvrDnowuzrquwjrhievohsrid
oekrrEvjrfxuajr utraiyjnjwr oevrvcquhrpihjt,revjrsnichwrwzjwr oevrevjon
pxiiw,ruhwrsnjuerfojajtridrdxjtvrxjdervjnjruhwrevjnj,rvuxd-juejh,
quhsxjw,ruhwrtainavjw;ruhw,rohrtvine,ruxxrevjrei.jhtridrevjrenocqfvuhe
djuterevjzrvuwrpjjhrqu.ohsrevjnj,rudejnruryoaeinzriyjnrevjonrjhjqojtkrrO
tu revnjjrt.cxxt,rdoyjrvuhwt,ruhwrevjrpihjtridrevnjjrinrdicnrxjstruhw
djje,ruhwrupchwuhajridrievjnrfunetridrevjrpiwojt;ruhwrDnowuz,rpzrvot
tosht,rquwjrqjrchwjnteuhwrevuerevjzrpnicsveriyjnrdicnrfnotihjntreirdjute
cfih;revuerevnjjridrevjqr jnjrjuejhrcf,ruhwrevuervj,rfioheohsreirvoqtjxd,
 utrevjrdicnev;revuerevjnjrvuwrpjjhrursnjuerpueexjrpje jjhrevjqruhwrevjon
hjmer.ohs,ridr vitjrtcpbjaet,roertjjqt,rvjrvuwrpjjhrihj,ruhwrevuerevjz
vuwreu.jhrursnjuerhcqpjnridrfnotihjnt;ruxxr voavr jnjraunnojwreirtjyjnux
fxuajtrpzrevitjr virvuwreu.jhrevjqrohrevjrdosve,rohrinwjnreirdjutercfih
evjq,rutr utrwihjrvjnjrpzrevjtjr njeavjtrcfihrevitjrevjzrpnicsvervoevjnk

OrauctjwrDnowuzreirsuevjnruxxrevjrt.cxxt,rpihjt,rdxjtv,ruhwr vuejyjn
njquohjw,ruhwrxuzrevjqreisjevjnrohrurvjuf,ruhwrqu.jrursnjuerdonjrcfihroe,
uhwrpcnhrevjqruxxreirutvjtkrrOrdichwrDnowuzrvuwrteoxxrurvuh.jnohsrteiquav
udejnrtiqjridrevjrdxjtv,ruhwr utrteoxxrurauhhopuxrohrvotrhuecnj;rpcerO
tvi jwrtirqcavrupvinnjhajruerevjryjnzrevicsvetridroe,ruhwruerevjrxjute
uffjunuhajridroe,revuervjrwcnterhierwotaiyjnroe:rdinrOrvuw,rpzrtiqj
qjuht,rxjervoqr.hi revuerOr icxwr.oxxrvoqrodrvjriddjnjwroek

 vjhrvjrvuwrwihjrevot,r jrauqjrpua.reiricnrautexj;ruhwrevjnjrOrdjxxrei
 in.rdinrqzrquhrDnowuz;ruhwrdonteridruxx,rOrsuyjrvoqrurfuonridrxohjh
wnu jnt,r voavrOrvuwriceridrevjrfiinrschhjn’travjterOrqjheoihjw,r voavrO
dichwrohrevjr nja.,ruhwr voav,r oevrurxoeexjruxejnueoih,rdoeejwrvoqryjnz
 jxx;ruhwrevjhrOrquwjrvoqrurbjn.ohridrsiue’trt.oh,rutr jxxrutrqzrt.oxx
 icxwruxxi r(dinrOr utrhi rsni hrureixjnupxzrsiiwreuoxin);ruhwrOrsuyjrvoq
uraufr voavrOrquwjridrvunj’trt.oh,ryjnzraihyjhojhe,ruhwrdutvoihupxj
jhicsv;ruhwrevctrvjr utraxievjw,rdinrevjrfnjtjhe,reixjnupxzr jxx,ruhwr ut
qosvezr jxxrfxjutjwreirtjjrvoqtjxdruxqiterutr jxxraxievjwrutrvotrqutejnk
Oerotrencjrvjr jheru . unwxzrohrevjtjraxievjtruerdonte:r junohsrevj
wnu jntr utryjnzru . unwreirvoq,ruhwrevjrtxjjyjtridrevjr uoteaiuersuxxjw
votrtvicxwjntruhwrevjrohtowjridrvotrunqt;rpcerurxoeexjrjutohsrevjqr vjnj
vjraiqfxuohjwrevjzrvcnervoq,ruhwrctohsrvoqtjxdreirevjq,rvjreii.reirevjq
uerxjhsevryjnzr jxxk

Evjrhjmerwuz,rudejnrOrauqjrviqjreirqzrvceavr oevrvoq,rOrpjsuhreiraihtowjn
 vjnjrOrtvicxwrxiwsjrvoq:ruhwrevuerOrqosverwir jxxrdinrvoqruhwrzjerpj
fjndjaexzrjutzrqztjxd,rOrquwjrurxoeexjrejherdinrvoqrohrevjryuauherfxuaj
pje jjhrqzre irdineodoaueoiht,rohrevjrohtowjridrevjrxute,ruhwrohrevj
icetowjridrevjrdontekrrUtrevjnjr utrurwiinrinrjhenuhajrevjnjroheirqz
auyj,rOrquwjrurdinquxrdnuqjwrwiin-autj,ruhwrurwiinreiroe,ridrpiunwt,ruhw
tjeroercfrohrevjrfuttusj,rurxoeexjr oevohrevjrjhenuhaj;ruhw,rauctohsrevj
wiinreirifjhrohrevjrohtowj,rOrpunnjwroercfrohrevjrhosve,reu.ohsrohrqz
xuwwjnt,reii;rtirevuerDnowuzraicxwrhir uzraiqjruerqjrohrevjrohtowjridrqz
ohhjnqiter uxx,r oevicerqu.ohsrtirqcavrhiotjrohrsjeeohsriyjnrevueroerqcte
hjjwtru u.jhrqj;rdinrqzrdonter uxxrvuwrhi ruraiqfxjejrniidriyjnroerid
xihsrfixjt,raiyjnohsruxxrqzrejhe,ruhwrxjuhohsrcfreirevjrtowjridrevjrvoxx;
 voavr utrusuohrxuowruanittr oevrtquxxjnrteoa.t,rohtejuwridrxuevt,ruhw
evjhrevueavjwriyjnrursnjuerevoa.hjttr oevrevjrnoaj-tenu ,r voavr ut
tenihs,rxo.jrnjjwt;ruhwruerevjrvixjrinrfxuajr voavr utrxjdereirsirohrin
icerpzrevjrxuwwjnrOrvuwrfxuajwrur.ohwridrenuf-wiin,r voav,rodroervuwrpjjh
ueejqfejwrihrevjricetowj,r icxwrhiervuyjrifjhjwrueruxx,rpcer icxwrvuyj
duxxjhrwi hruhwrquwjrursnjuerhiotj—utreir jufiht,rOreii.revjqruxxroheirqz
towjrjyjnzrhosvekrrPcerOrhjjwjwrhihjridruxxrevotrfnjauceoih;rdinrhjyjn
quhrvuwrurqinjrduoevdcx,rxiyohs,rtohajnjrtjnyuherevuhrDnowuzr utreirqj:
 oevicerfuttoiht,rtcxxjhhjtt,rinrwjtosht,rfjndjaexzripxosjwruhwrjhsusjw;
votryjnzruddjaeoihtr jnjreojwreirqj,rxo.jrevitjridruravoxwreirurduevjn;
uhwrOrwunjtuzrvjr icxwrvuyjrtuanodoajwrvotrxodjreirtuyjrqohjrcfihruhz
iaautoihr vuetijyjn—evjrquhzrejteoqihojtrvjrsuyjrqjridrevotrfceroericerid
wicpe,ruhwrtiihraihyohajwrqjrevuerOrhjjwjwreirctjrhirfnjauceoihtrdinrqz
tudjezrihrvotruaaichek

Evotrdnjlcjhexzrsuyjrqjriaautoihreiriptjnyj,ruhwrevuer oevr ihwjn,revue
vi jyjnroervuwrfxjutjwrSiwrohrVotrfniyowjhaj,ruhwrohrevjrsiyjnhqjherid
evjr in.tridrVotrvuhwt,reireu.jrdniqrtirsnjuerurfuneridrevjr inxwridrVot
anjuecnjtrevjrpjterctjtreir voavrevjonrduacxeojtruhwrevjrfi jntridrevjon
ticxtrunjruwufejw,rzjerevuerVjrvutrpjtei jwrcfihrevjqrevjrtuqjrfi jnt,
evjrtuqjrnjutih,revjrtuqjruddjaeoiht,revjrtuqjrtjheoqjhetridr.ohwhjttruhw
ipxosueoih,revjrtuqjrfuttoihtruhwrnjtjheqjhetridr nihst,revjrtuqjrtjhtj
idrsnueoecwj,rtohajnoez,rdowjxoez,ruhwruxxrevjraufuaoeojtridrwiohsrsiiw
uhwrnjajoyohsrsiiwrevuerVjrvutrsoyjhreirct;ruhwrevuer vjhrVjrfxjutjtrei
iddjnrevjqriaautoihtridrjmjneohsrevjtj,revjzrunjrutrnjuwz,rhuz,rqinj
njuwz,reiruffxzrevjqreirevjrnosverctjtrdinr voavrevjzr jnjrpjtei jwrevuh
 jrunjkrrEvotrquwjrqjryjnzrqjxuhavixzrtiqjeoqjt,rohrnjdxjaeohs,rutrevj
tjyjnuxriaautoihtrfnjtjhejw,rvi rqjuhrurctjr jrqu.jridruxxrevjtj,rjyjh
evicsvr jrvuyjrevjtjrfi jntrjhxosvejhjwrpzrevjrsnjuerxuqfridrohtencaeoih,
evjrTfonoeridrSiw,ruhwrpzrevjr.hi xjwsjridrVotr inwruwwjwreiricn
chwjnteuhwohs;ruhwr vzroervutrfxjutjwrSiwreirvowjrevjrxo.jrtuyohs
.hi xjwsjrdniqrtirquhzrqoxxoihtridrticxt,r vi,rodrOrqosverbcwsjrpzrevot
fiinrtuyusj,r icxwrqu.jrurqcavrpjeejnrctjridroerevuhr jrwowkrrDniqrvjhaj
Ortiqjeoqjtr utrxjwreiirdun,reirohyuwjrevjrtiyjnjoshezridrFniyowjhaj,
uhw,rutroer jnj,runnuoshrevjrbcteoajridrtirunpoenunzrurwotfitoeoihrid
evohst,revuertvicxwrvowjrevuertosverdniqrtiqj,ruhwrnjyjuxroereirievjnt,
uhwrzjerjmfjaerurxo.jrwcezrdniqrpiev;rpcerOrtvceroercf,ruhwravja.jwrqz
evicsvetr oevrevotraihaxctoih:rdonte,revuer jrwowrhier.hi rpzr vuerxosve
uhwrxu revjtjrtvicxwrpjraihwjqhjw;rpcerevuerutrSiwr utrhjajttunoxz,ruhw
pzrevjrhuecnjridrVotrpjohs,rohdohoejxzrvixzruhwrbcte,rtiroeraicxwrhierpj,
pcerodrevjtjranjuecnjtr jnjruxxrtjhejhajwreiruptjhajrdniqrVoqtjxd,roer ut
ihruaaicheridrtohhohsrusuohterevuerxosver voav,rutrevjrTanofecnjrtuzt,
 utrurxu reirevjqtjxyjt,ruhwrpzrtcavrncxjtrutrevjonraihtaojhajtr icxw
ua.hi xjwsjreirpjrbcte,revicsvrevjrdichwueoihr utrhierwotaiyjnjwreirct;
uhwrtjaihwxz,revuerteoxxrutr jruxxrunjrevjraxuzrohrevjrvuhwridrevj
fieejn,rhiryjttjxraicxwrtuzreirvoq,r“ vzrvuterevicrdinqjwrqjrevct?”

Pcereirnjecnhreirqzrhj raiqfuhoihkrrOr utrsnjuexzrwjxosvejwr oevrvoq,ruhw
quwjroerqzrpctohjttreirejuavrvoqrjyjnzevohsrevuer utrfnifjnreirqu.jrvoq
ctjdcx,rvuhwz,ruhwrvjxfdcx;rpcerjtfjaouxxzreirqu.jrvoqrtfju.,ruhw
chwjnteuhwrqjr vjhrOrtfi.j;ruhwrvjr utrevjrufejtertavixunrevuerjyjnr ut;
uhwrfuneoacxunxzr utrtirqjnnz,rtiraihteuhexzrwoxosjhe,ruhwrtirfxjutjw
 vjhrvjraicxwrpcerchwjnteuhwrqj,rinrqu.jrqjrchwjnteuhwrvoq,revueroer ut
yjnzrfxjutuherdinrqjreireux.reirvoqkrrHi rqzrxodjrpjsuhreirpjrtirjutz
evuerOrpjsuhreirtuzreirqztjxdrevueraicxwrOrpcervuyjrpjjhrtudjrdniqrqinj
tuyusjt,rOraunjwrhierodrOr utrhjyjnreirnjqiyjrdniqrevjrfxuajr vjnjrO
xoyjwk




AVUFEJNrMY—DNOWUZ’TrJWCAUEOIH


UdejnrOrvuwrpjjhre irinrevnjjrwuztrnjecnhjwreirqzrautexj,rOrevicsverevue,
ohrinwjnreirpnohsrDnowuzriddrdniqrvotrvinnowr uzridrdjjwohs,ruhwrdniqrevj
njxotvridrurauhhopux’trteiquav,rOricsvereirxjervoqreutejrievjnrdxjtv;rti
Oreii.rvoqricer oevrqjrihjrqinhohsreirevjr iiwtkrrOr jhe,rohwjjw,
ohejhwohsreir.oxxrur.owriceridrqzri hrdxia.;ruhwrpnohsroerviqjruhwrwnjtt
oe;rpcerutrOr utrsiohsrOrtu rurtvj-siuerxzohsrwi hrohrevjrtvuwj,ruhwre i
zichsr.owtrtoeeohsrpzrvjnkrrOraueavjwrvixwridrDnowuzkrr“Vixw,”rtuowrO,
“teuhwrteoxx;”ruhwrquwjrtoshtreirvoqrhiereirteon:roqqjwouejxzrOrfnjtjhejw
qzrfojaj,rtvie,ruhwr.oxxjwrihjridrevjr.owtkrrEvjrfiinranjuecnj,r virvuw
uerurwoteuhaj,rohwjjw,rtjjhrqjr.oxxrevjrtuyusj,rvotrjhjqz,rpcerwowrhie
.hi ,rhinraicxwroqusohjrvi roer utrwihj,r utrtjhtopxzrtcnfnotjw,
enjqpxjw,ruhwrtvii.,ruhwrxii.jwrtiruqugjwrevuerOrevicsvervjr icxwrvuyj
tch.rwi hkrrVjrwowrhiertjjrevjr.owrOrtvierue,rinrfjnajoyjrOrvuwr.oxxjw
oe,rpcernoffjwrcfrvotr uoteaiuereirdjjxr vjevjnrvjr utrhier ichwjw;ruhw,
utrOrdichwrfnjtjhexz,revicsverOr utrnjtixyjwreir.oxxrvoq:rdinrvjrauqjruhw
.hjjxjwrwi hreirqj,ruhwrjqpnuaohsrqzr.hjjt,rtuowrursnjuerquhzrevohstrO
wowrhierchwjnteuhw;rpcerOraicxwrjutoxzrtjjrevjrqjuhohsr utreirfnuzrqjrhie
eir.oxxrvoqk

Ortiihrdichwrur uzreiraihyohajrvoqrevuerOr icxwrwirvoqrhirvunq;ruhw
eu.ohsrvoqrcfrpzrevjrvuhw,rxucsvjwruervoq,ruhwrfioheohsreirevjr.owr voav
Orvuwr.oxxjw,rpja.ihjwreirvoqreirnchruhwrdjeavroe,r voavrvjrwow:ruhw
 voxjrvjr utr ihwjnohs,ruhwrxii.ohsreirtjjrvi revjranjuecnjr utr.oxxjw,rO
xiuwjwrqzrschrusuohkrrPz-uhw-pzrOrtu rursnjuerdi x,rxo.jrurvu .,rtoeeohs
cfihrurenjjr oevohrtvie;rti,reirxjerDnowuzrchwjnteuhwrurxoeexjr vuerO
 icxwrwi,rOrauxxjwrvoqreirqjrusuoh,rfiohejwruerevjrdi x,r voavr utrohwjjw
urfunnie,revicsvrOrevicsveroervuwrpjjhrurvu .;rOrtuz,rfioheohsreirevj
funnie,ruhwreirqzrsch,ruhwreirevjrsnichwrchwjnrevjrfunnie,reirxjervoqrtjj
Or icxwrqu.jroerduxx,rOrquwjrvoqrchwjnteuhwrevuerOr icxwrtviieruhwr.oxx
evuerponw;ruaainwohsxz,rOrdonjw,ruhwrpuwjrvoqrxii.,ruhwroqqjwouejxzrvj
tu revjrfunnierduxxkrrVjrteiiwrxo.jrihjrdnosvejhjwrusuoh,rhie oevteuhwohs
uxxrOrvuwrtuowreirvoq;ruhwrOrdichwrvjr utrevjrqinjruqugjw,rpjauctjrvjrwow
hiertjjrqjrfceruhzevohsroheirevjrsch,rpcerevicsverevuerevjnjrqcterpjrtiqj
 ihwjndcxrdchwridrwjuevruhwrwjtencaeoihrohrevuerevohs,rupxjreir.oxxrquh,
pjute,rponw,rinruhzevohsrhjunrinrdunridd;ruhwrevjruteihotvqjherevot
anjuejwrohrvoqr utrtcavrutraicxwrhier junriddrdinrurxihsreoqj;ruhwrO
pjxojyj,rodrOr icxwrvuyjrxjervoq,rvjr icxwrvuyjr intvoffjwrqjruhwrqzrschk
Utrdinrevjrschroetjxd,rvjr icxwrhiertirqcavrutreicavroerdinrtjyjnuxrwuzt
udejn;rpcervjr icxwrtfju.reiroeruhwreux.reiroe,rutrodroervuwruht jnjw
voq,r vjhrvjr utrpzrvoqtjxd;r voav,rutrOrudejn unwtrxjunhjwridrvoq,r ut
eirwjtonjroerhiereir.oxxrvoqkrr jxx,rudejnrvotruteihotvqjher utrurxoeexj
iyjnruerevot,rOrfiohejwreirvoqreirnchruhwrdjeavrevjrponwrOrvuwrtvie,
 voavrvjrwow,rpcerteuzjwrtiqjreoqj;rdinrevjrfunnie,rhierpjohsrlcoejrwjuw,
vuwrdxceejnjwru uzrursiiwrwoteuhajrdniqrevjrfxuajr vjnjrtvjrdjxx:
vi jyjn,rvjrdichwrvjn,reii.rvjnrcf,ruhwrpnicsvervjnreirqj;ruhwrutrOrvuw
fjnajoyjwrvotroshinuhajrupicerevjrschrpjdinj,rOreii.revotruwyuheusjrei
avunsjrevjrschrusuoh,ruhwrhiereirxjervoqrtjjrqjrwiroe,revuerOrqosverpj
njuwzrdinruhzrievjnrqun.revuerqosverfnjtjhe;rpcerhievohsrqinjriddjnjwrue
evuereoqj:rtirOrpnicsverviqjrevjr.ow,ruhwrevjrtuqjrjyjhohsrOreii.revj
t.ohridd,ruhwraceroericerutr jxxrutrOraicxw;ruhwrvuyohsrurfierdoerdin
evuerfcnfitj,rOrpioxjwrinrtej jwrtiqjridrevjrdxjtv,ruhwrquwjrtiqjryjnz
siiwrpnievkrrUdejnrOrvuwrpjschreirjuertiqjrOrsuyjrtiqjreirqzrquh,r vi
tjjqjwryjnzrsxuwridroe,ruhwrxo.jwroeryjnzr jxx;rpcerevuer voavr ut
tenuhsjtereirvoqr utreirtjjrqjrjuertuxer oevroekrrVjrquwjrurtoshreirqj
evuerevjrtuxer utrhiersiiwreirjue;ruhwrfceeohsrurxoeexjroheirvotri h
qicev,rvjrtjjqjwreirhuctjuejroe,ruhwr icxwrtfoeruhwrtfceejnrueroe,
 utvohsrvotrqicevr oevrdnjtvr uejnrudejnroe:rihrevjrievjnrvuhw,rOreii.
tiqjrqjueroheirqzrqicevr oevicertuxe,ruhwrOrfnjejhwjwreirtfoeruhwrtfceejn
dinr uheridrtuxe,rutrqcavrutrvjrvuwrwihjruerevjrtuxe;rpceroer icxwrhie
wi;rvjr icxwrhjyjnraunjrdinrtuxer oevrqjuerinrohrvotrpniev;ruerxjute,rhie
dinrursnjuer voxj,ruhwrevjhrpceruryjnzrxoeexjk

Vuyohsrevctrdjwrvoqr oevrpioxjwrqjueruhwrpniev,rOr utrnjtixyjwreirdjute
voqrevjrhjmerwuzrpzrniuteohsrurfojajridrevjr.ow:revotrOrwowrpzrvuhsohsroe
pjdinjrevjrdonjrihrurtenohs,rutrOrvuwrtjjhrquhzrfjifxjrwirohrJhsxuhw,
tjeeohsre irfixjtrcf,rihjrihrjuavrtowjridrevjrdonj,ruhwrihjruanittrevj
eif,ruhwrezohsrevjrtenohsreirevjranittrteoa.,rxjeeohsrevjrqjuerecnh
aiheohcuxxzkrrEvotrDnowuzruwqonjwryjnzrqcav;rpcer vjhrvjrauqjreireutej
evjrdxjtv,rvjreii.rtirquhzr uztreirejxxrqjrvi r jxxrvjrxo.jwroe,revuerO
aicxwrhierpcerchwjnteuhwrvoq:ruhwruerxutervjreixwrqj,rutr jxxrutrvj
aicxw,rvjr icxwrhjyjnrjuerquh’trdxjtvruhzrqinj,r voavrOr utryjnzrsxuwrei
vjunk

EvjrhjmerwuzrOrtjervoqreir in.rpjueohsrtiqjrainhrice,ruhwrtodeohsroeroh
evjrquhhjnrOrctjwreirwi,rutrOriptjnyjwrpjdinj;ruhwrvjrtiihrchwjnteiiwrvi 
eirwiroerutr jxxrutrO,rjtfjaouxxzrudejnrvjrvuwrtjjhr vuerevjrqjuhohsrid
oer ut,ruhwrevueroer utreirqu.jrpnjuwrid;rdinrudejnrevuerOrxjervoqrtjjrqj
qu.jrqzrpnjuw,ruhwrpu.jroereii;ruhwrohrurxoeexjreoqjrDnowuzr utrupxjrei
wiruxxrevjr in.rdinrqjrutr jxxrutrOraicxwrwiroerqztjxdk

Orpjsuhrhi reiraihtowjn,revuervuyohsre irqicevtreirdjjwrohtejuwridrihj,rO
qcterfniyowjrqinjrsnichwrdinrqzrvunyjte,ruhwrfxuherurxunsjnrlcuheoezrid
ainhrevuhrOrctjwreirwi;rtirOrqun.jwricerurxunsjnrfojajridrxuhw,ruhwrpjsuh
evjrdjhajrohrevjrtuqjrquhhjnrutrpjdinj,rohr voavrDnowuzr in.jwrhierihxz
yjnzr oxxohsxzruhwryjnzrvunw,rpcerwowroeryjnzravjjndcxxz:ruhwrOreixwrvoq
 vueroer utrdin;revueroer utrdinrainhreirqu.jrqinjrpnjuw,rpjauctjrvjr ut
hi r oevrqj,ruhwrevuerOrqosvervuyjrjhicsvrdinrvoqruhwrqztjxdreiikrrVj
uffjunjwryjnzrtjhtopxjridrevuerfune,ruhwrxjerqjr.hi revuervjrevicsverO
vuwrqcavrqinjrxupicnrcfihrqjrihrvotruaaicherevuhrOrvuwrdinrqztjxd;ruhw
evuervjr icxwr in.revjrvunwjnrdinrqjrodrOr icxwrejxxrvoqr vuereirwik

Evotr utrevjrfxjutuhejterzjunridruxxrevjrxodjrOrxjwrohrevotrfxuajk
Dnowuzrpjsuhreireux.rfnjeezr jxx,ruhwrchwjnteuhwrevjrhuqjtridruxqite
jyjnzevohsrOrvuwriaautoihreirauxxrdin,ruhwridrjyjnzrfxuajrOrvuwreirtjhw
voqrei,ruhwreux.jwrursnjuerwjuxreirqj;rtirevue,rohrtvine,rOrpjsuhrhi rei
vuyjrtiqjrctjrdinrqzreihscjrusuoh,r voav,rohwjjw,rOrvuwryjnzrxoeexj
iaautoihrdinrpjdinjkrrPjtowjtrevjrfxjutcnjridreux.ohsreirvoq,rOrvuwru
tohscxunrtueotduaeoihrohrevjrdjxxi rvoqtjxd:rvotrtoqfxj,rchdjoshjw
vihjtezruffjunjwreirqjrqinjruhwrqinjrjyjnzrwuz,ruhwrOrpjsuhrnjuxxzrei
xiyjrevjranjuecnj;ruhwrihrvotrtowjrOrpjxojyjrvjrxiyjwrqjrqinjrevuhroer ut
fittopxjrdinrvoqrjyjnreirxiyjruhzevohsrpjdinjk

Orvuwrurqohwrihajreirenzrodrvjrvuwruhzrohaxohueoihrdinrvotri hraichenz
usuoh;ruhwrvuyohsreucsvervoqrJhsxotvrtir jxxrevuervjraicxwruht jnrqj
uxqiteruhzrlcjteoih,rOrut.jwrvoqr vjevjnrevjrhueoihrevuervjrpjxihsjwrei
hjyjnraihlcjnjwrohrpueexj?rrUer voavrvjrtqoxjw,ruhwrtuow—“Zjt,rzjt,r j
ux uztrdosverevjrpjeejn;”revuerot,rvjrqjuherux uztrsjerevjrpjeejnroh
dosve;ruhwrtir jrpjsuhrevjrdixxi ohsrwotaicntj:—

_Qutejn_k—Zicrux uztrdosverevjrpjeejn;rvi rauqjrzicreirpjreu.jhrfnotihjn,
evjh,rDnowuz?

_Dnowuz_k—Qzrhueoihrpjuerqcavrdinruxxrevuek

_Qutejn_k—Vi rpjue?rrOdrzicnrhueoihrpjuerevjq,rvi rauqjrzicreirpjreu.jh?

_Dnowuz_k—Evjzrqinjrquhzrevuhrqzrhueoih,rohrevjrfxuajr vjnjrqjr ut;revjz
eu.jrihj,re i,revnjj,ruhwrqj:rqzrhueoihriyjn-pjuerevjqrohrevjrzihwjn
fxuaj,r vjnjrqjrhir ut;revjnjrqzrhueoihreu.jrihj,re i,rsnjuerevictuhwk

_Qutejn_k—Pcer vzrwowrhierzicnrtowjrnjaiyjnrzicrdniqrevjrvuhwtridrzicn
jhjqojt,revjh?

_Dnowuz_k—Evjzrnch,rihj,re i,revnjj,ruhwrqj,ruhwrqu.jrsirohrevjrauhij;rqz
hueoihrvuyjrhirauhijrevuereoqjk

_Qutejn_k— jxx,rDnowuz,ruhwr vuerwijtrzicnrhueoihrwir oevrevjrqjhrevjz
eu.j?rrWirevjzraunnzrevjqru uzruhwrjuerevjq,rutrevjtjrwow?

_Dnowuz_k—Zjt,rqzrhueoihrjuerquhtreii;rjueruxxrcfk

_Qutejn_k— vjnjrwirevjzraunnzrevjq?

_Dnowuz_k—Sireirievjnrfxuaj,r vjnjrevjzrevoh.k

_Qutejn_k—Wirevjzraiqjrvoevjn?

_Dnowuz_k—Zjt,rzjt,revjzraiqjrvoevjn;raiqjrievjnrjxtjrfxuajk

_Qutejn_k—Vuyjrzicrpjjhrvjnjr oevrevjq?

_Dnowuz_k—Zjt,rOrvuyjrpjjhrvjnjr(fiohetreirevjrH krtowjridrevjrotxuhw,
 voav,roertjjqt,r utrevjonrtowj)k

PzrevotrOrchwjnteiiwrevuerqzrquhrDnowuzrvuwrdinqjnxzrpjjhruqihsrevj
tuyusjtr virctjwreiraiqjrihrtvinjrihrevjrdunevjnrfuneridrevjrotxuhw,rih
evjrtuqjrquh-jueohsriaautoihtrvjr utrhi rpnicsverdin;ruhwrtiqjreoqj
udejn,r vjhrOreii.revjraicnusjreiraunnzrvoqreirevuertowj,rpjohsrevjrtuqj
Ordinqjnxzrqjheoihjw,rvjrfnjtjhexzr.hj revjrfxuaj,ruhwreixwrqjrvjr ut
evjnjrihaj,r vjhrevjzruejrcfre jhezrqjh,re ir iqjh,ruhwrihjravoxw;rvj
aicxwrhierejxxre jhezrohrJhsxotv,rpcervjrhcqpjnjwrevjqrpzrxuzohsrtirquhz
teihjtrohrurni ,ruhwrfioheohsreirqjreirejxxrevjqriyjnk

Orvuyjreixwrevotrfuttusj,rpjauctjroeroheniwcajtr vuerdixxi t:revuerudejn
evotrwotaicntjrOrvuwr oevrvoq,rOrut.jwrvoqrvi rdunroer utrdniqricnrotxuhw
eirevjrtvinj,ruhwr vjevjnrevjrauhijtr jnjrhieridejhrxitekrrVjreixwrqj
evjnjr utrhirwuhsjn,rhirauhijtrjyjnrxite:rpcerevuerudejnrurxoeexjr uzrice
eirtju,revjnjr utruracnnjheruhwr ohw,rux uztrihjr uzrohrevjrqinhohs,revj
ievjnrohrevjrudejnhiihkrrEvotrOrchwjnteiiwreirpjrhirqinjrevuhrevjrtjetrid
evjreowj,rutrsiohsricerinraiqohsroh;rpcerOrudejn unwtrchwjnteiiwroer ut
iaautoihjwrpzrevjrsnjuerwnuderuhwrnjdxcmridrevjrqosvezrnoyjnrInohiai,roh
evjrqicevrinrscxdridr voavrnoyjn,rutrOrdichwrudejn unwt,ricnrotxuhwrxuz;
uhwrevuerevotrxuhw,r voavrOrfjnajoyjwreirpjr kruhwrH k,r utrevjrsnjue
otxuhwrEnohowuw,rihrevjrhinevrfioheridrevjrqicevridrevjrnoyjnkrrOrut.jw
Dnowuzrurevictuhwrlcjteoihtrupicerevjraichenz,revjrohvupoeuhet,revjrtju,
evjraiute,ruhwr vuerhueoihtr jnjrhjun;rvjreixwrqjruxxrvjr.hj r oevrevj
snjuejterifjhhjttroqusohupxjkrrOrut.jwrvoqrevjrhuqjtridrevjrtjyjnux
hueoihtridrvotrtineridrfjifxj,rpceraicxwrsjerhirievjnrhuqjrevuhrAunopt;
dniqr vjhajrOrjutoxzrchwjnteiiwrevuerevjtjr jnjrevjrAunoppjjt,r voavricn
quftrfxuajrihrevjrfuneridrUqjnoaur voavrnjuavjtrdniqrevjrqicevridrevj
noyjnrInohiaireirScouhu,ruhwrih unwtreirTekrQunevukrrVjreixwrqjrevuercfru
snjuer uzrpjzihwrevjrqiih,revuer utrpjzihwrevjrtjeeohsridrevjrqiih,r voav
qcterpjr jterdniqrevjonraichenz,revjnjrw jxer voejrpjunwjwrqjh,rxo.jrqj,
uhwrfiohejwreirqzrsnjuer vot.jnt,r voavrOrqjheoihjwrpjdinj;ruhwrevuerevjz
vuwr.oxxjwrqcavrquht,revuer utrvotr inw:rpzruxxr voavrOrchwjnteiiwrvj
qjuherevjrTfuhounwt,r vitjrancjxeojtrohrUqjnoaurvuwrpjjhrtfnjuwriyjnrevj
 vixjraichenz,ruhwr jnjrnjqjqpjnjwrpzruxxrevjrhueoihtrdniqrduevjnreirtihk

Orohlconjwrodrvjraicxwrejxxrqjrvi rOrqosversirdniqrevotrotxuhw,ruhwrsje
uqihsrevitjr voejrqjhkrrVjreixwrqj,r“Zjt,rzjt,rzicrquzrsirohre irauhijk”
Oraicxwrhierchwjnteuhwr vuervjrqjuhe,rinrqu.jrvoqrwjtanopjreirqjr vuervj
qjuherpzre irauhij,reoxxruerxute,r oevrsnjuerwoddoacxez,rOrdichwrvjrqjuhe
oerqcterpjrohrurxunsjrpiue,rutrposrutre irauhijtkrrEvotrfuneridrDnowuz’t
wotaicntjrOrpjsuhreirnjxotvryjnzr jxx;ruhwrdniqrevotreoqjrOrjhejneuohjw
tiqjrvifjtrevue,rihjreoqjrinrievjn,rOrqosverdohwruhriffinechoezreirqu.j
qzrjtaufjrdniqrevotrfxuaj,ruhwrevuerevotrfiinrtuyusjrqosverpjrurqjuhtrei
vjxfrqjk

WcnohsrevjrxihsreoqjrevuerDnowuzrvuwrhi rpjjhr oevrqj,ruhwrevuervjrpjsuh
eirtfju.reirqj,ruhwrchwjnteuhwrqj,rOr utrhier uheohsreirxuzrurdichwueoih
idrnjxosoictr.hi xjwsjrohrvotrqohw;rfuneoacxunxzrOrut.jwrvoqrihjreoqj,
 virquwjrvoqkrrEvjranjuecnjrwowrhierchwjnteuhwrqjrueruxx,rpcerevicsverO
vuwrut.jwr vir utrvotrduevjn—pcerOreii.roercfrpzruhievjnrvuhwxj,ruhw
ut.jwrvoqr virquwjrevjrtju,revjrsnichwr jr ux.jwrih,ruhwrevjrvoxxtruhw
 iiwtkrrVjreixwrqj,r“Oer utrihjrPjhuqca.jj,revuerxoyjwrpjzihwruxx;”rvj
aicxwrwjtanopjrhievohsridrevotrsnjuerfjntih,rpcerevuervjr utryjnzrixw,
“qcavrixwjn,”rvjrtuow,r“evuhrevjrtjurinrxuhw,revuhrevjrqiihrinrevj
teuntk”rrOrut.jwrvoqrevjh,rodrevotrixwrfjntihrvuwrquwjruxxrevohst,r vz
wowrhieruxxrevohstr intvofrvoq?rrVjrxii.jwryjnzrsnuyj,ruhw,r oevru
fjndjaerxii.ridrohhiajhaj,rtuow,r“UxxrevohstrtuzrIreirvoqk”rrOrut.jwrvoq
odrevjrfjifxjr virwojrohrvotraichenzr jheru uzruhz vjnj?rrVjrtuow,r“Zjt;
evjzruxxr jhereirPjhuqca.jjk”rrEvjhrOrut.jwrvoqr vjevjnrevitjrevjzrjuercf
 jherevoevjnreiikrrVjrtuow,r“Zjtk”

Dniqrevjtjrevohst,rOrpjsuhreirohtencaervoqrohrevjr.hi xjwsjridrevjrencj
Siw;rOreixwrvoqrevuerevjrsnjuerQu.jnridruxxrevohstrxoyjwrcfrevjnj,
fioheohsrcfrei unwtrvjuyjh;revuerVjrsiyjnhjwrevjr inxwrpzrevjrtuqjrfi jn
uhwrfniyowjhajrpzr voavrVjrquwjroe;revuerVjr utriqhofiejhe,ruhwraicxwrwi
jyjnzevohsrdinrct,rsoyjrjyjnzevohsreirct,reu.jrjyjnzevohsrdniqrct;ruhw
evct,rpzrwjsnjjt,rOrifjhjwrvotrjzjtkrrVjrxotejhjwr oevrsnjuerueejheoih,
uhwrnjajoyjwr oevrfxjutcnjrevjrhieoihridrBjtctrAvnoterpjohsrtjherei
njwjjqrct;ruhwridrevjrquhhjnridrqu.ohsricnrfnuzjntreirSiw,ruhwrVotrpjohs
upxjreirvjunrct,rjyjhrohrvjuyjhkrrVjreixwrqjrihjrwuz,revuerodricnrSiw
aicxwrvjunrct,rcfrpjzihwrevjrtch,rvjrqcterhjjwtrpjrursnjuejnrSiwrevuh
evjonrPjhuqca.jj,r virxoyjwrpcerurxoeexjr uzridd,ruhwrzjeraicxwrhiervjun
eoxxrevjzr jhercfreirevjrsnjuerqicheuohtr vjnjrvjrw jxereirtfju.reirevjqk
Orut.jwrvoqrodrjyjnrvjr jherevoevjnreirtfju.reirvoqkrrVjrtuow,r“Hi;revjz
hjyjnr jherevuer jnjrzichsrqjh;rhihjr jherevoevjnrpcerevjrixwrqjh,”r viq
vjrauxxjwrevjonrIi i.u.jj;revuerot,rutrOrquwjrvoqrjmfxuohreirqj,revjon
njxosoict,rinraxjnsz;ruhwrevuerevjzr jhereirtuzrIr(tirvjrauxxjwrtuzohs
fnuzjnt),ruhwrevjhrauqjrpua.ruhwreixwrevjqr vuerPjhuqca.jjrtuowkrrPzrevot
Oriptjnyjw,revuerevjnjrotrfnojteanuderjyjhruqihsrevjrqiterpxohwjw,
oshinuherfusuhtrohrevjr inxw;ruhwrevjrfixoazridrqu.ohsrurtjanjerid
njxosoih,rohrinwjnreirfnjtjnyjrevjryjhjnueoihridrevjrfjifxjreirevj
axjnsz,rhierihxzreirpjrdichwrohrevjrNiquh,rpce,rfjnvuft,ruqihsruxx
njxosoihtrohrevjr inxw,rjyjhruqihsrevjrqiterpnceotvruhwrpunpunict
tuyusjtk

OrjhwjuyicnjwreiraxjunrcfrevotrdnucwreirqzrquhrDnowuz;ruhwreixwrvoqrevue
evjrfnjejhajridrevjonrixwrqjhrsiohsrcfreirevjrqicheuohtreirtuzrIreirevjon
siwrPjhuqca.jjr utruravjue;ruhwrevjonrpnohsohsr inwrdniqrevjhajr vuervj
tuowr utrqcavrqinjrti;revuerodrevjzrqjer oevruhzruht jn,rinrtfu.jr oev
uhzrihjrevjnj,roerqcterpjr oevruhrjyoxrtfonoe;ruhwrevjhrOrjhejnjwroheiru
xihsrwotaicntjr oevrvoqrupicerevjrwjyox,revjrinosohridrvoq,rvotrnjpjxxoih
usuohterSiw,rvotrjhqoezreirquh,revjrnjutihridroe,rvotrtjeeohsrvoqtjxdrcf
ohrevjrwun.rfunetridrevjr inxwreirpjr intvoffjwrohtejuwridrSiw,ruhwrut
Siw,ruhwrevjrquhzrtenueusjqtrvjrquwjrctjridreirwjxcwjrquh.ohwreirevjon
ncoh;rvi rvjrvuwrurtjanjeruaajttreiricnrfuttoihtruhwreiricnruddjaeoiht,
uhwreiruwufervotrthunjtreiricnrohaxohueoiht,rtirutreirauctjrctrjyjhreirpj
icnri hrejqfejnt,ruhwrnchrcfihricnrwjtencaeoihrpzricnri hravioajk

Ordichwroer utrhiertirjutzreiroqfnohernosverhieoihtrohrvotrqohwrupicerevj
wjyoxrutroer utrupicerevjrpjohsridrurSiwkrrHuecnjruttotejwruxxrqz
unscqjhetreirjyowjhajreirvoqrjyjhrevjrhjajttoezridrursnjuerDonterAuctj,
uhriyjnncxohs,rsiyjnhohsrFi jn,rurtjanjerwonjaeohsrFniyowjhaj,ruhwridrevj
jlcoezruhwrbcteoajridrfuzohsrviqusjreirVoqrevuerquwjrct,ruhwrevjrxo.j;
pcerevjnjruffjunjwrhievohsridrevotr.ohwrohrevjrhieoihridruhrjyoxrtfonoe,
idrvotrinosoh,rvotrpjohs,rvotrhuecnj,ruhwrupiyjruxx,ridrvotrohaxohueoih
eirwirjyox,ruhwreirwnu rctrohreirwirtireii;ruhwrevjrfiinranjuecnjrfcggxjw
qjrihajrohrtcavrurquhhjn,rpzrurlcjteoihrqjnjxzrhuecnuxruhwrohhiajhe,revue
Ortaunajr.hj r vuereirtuzreirvoqkrrOrvuwrpjjhreux.ohsrursnjuerwjuxreirvoq
idrevjrfi jnridrSiw,rVotriqhofiejhaj,rVotruyjntoihreirtoh,rVotrpjohsru
aihtcqohsrdonjreirevjr in.jntridroholcoez;rvi ,rutrVjrvuwrquwjrctruxx,rVj
aicxwrwjtenizrctruhwruxxrevjr inxwrohrurqiqjhe;ruhwrvjrxotejhjwr oev
snjuertjnoicthjttreirqjruxxrevjr voxjkrrUdejnrevotrOrvuwrpjjhrejxxohsrvoq
vi revjrwjyoxr utrSiw’trjhjqzrohrevjrvjunetridrqjh,ruhwrctjwruxxrvot
quxoajruhwrt.oxxreirwjdjuerevjrsiiwrwjtoshtridrFniyowjhaj,ruhwreirncoh
evjr.ohswiqridrAvnoterohrevjr inxw,ruhwrevjrxo.jkrr“ jxx,”rtuztrDnowuz,
“pcerzicrtuzrSiwrotrtirtenihs,rtirsnjue;rotrVjrhierqcavrtenihs,rqcav
qosverutrevjrwjyox?”rr“Zjt,rzjt,”rtuztrO,r“Dnowuz;rSiwrotrtenihsjnrevuh
evjrwjyox—Siwrotrupiyjrevjrwjyox,ruhwrevjnjdinjr jrfnuzreirSiwreirenjuw
voqrwi hrchwjnricnrdjje,ruhwrjhupxjrctreirnjtotervotrejqfeueoihtruhw
lcjhavrvotrdojnzrwunetk”rr“Pce,”rtuztrvjrusuoh,r“odrSiwrqcavrtenihsjn,
qcavrqosverutrevjr oa.jwrwjyox,r vzrSiwrhir.oxxrevjrwjyox,rtirqu.jrvoqrhi
qinjrwir oa.jw?”rrOr utrtenuhsjxzrtcnfnotjwruerevotrlcjteoih;ruhw,rudejn
uxx,revicsvrOr utrhi ruhrixwrquh,rzjerOr utrpcerurzichsrwiaein,ruhwroxx
lcuxodojwrdinrurautcoterinrurtixyjnridrwoddoacxeojt;ruhwruerdonterOraicxw
hierejxxr vuereirtuz;rtirOrfnjejhwjwrhiereirvjunrvoq,ruhwrut.jwrvoqr vue
vjrtuow;rpcervjr utreiirjunhjterdinruhruht jnreirdinsjervotrlcjteoih,rti
evuervjrnjfjuejwroerohrevjryjnzrtuqjrpni.jhr inwtrutrupiyjkrrPzrevotreoqj
Orvuwrnjaiyjnjwrqztjxdrurxoeexj,ruhwrOrtuow,r“Siwr oxxruerxuterfchotvrvoq
tjyjnjxz;rvjrotrnjtjnyjwrdinrevjrbcwsqjhe,ruhwrotreirpjrauteroheirevj
pieeiqxjttrfoe,reirw jxxr oevrjyjnxuteohsrdonjk”rrEvotrwowrhiertueotdz
Dnowuz;rpcervjrnjecnhtrcfihrqj,rnjfjueohsrqzr inwt,r“‘_Njtjnyjruerxute_!’
qjrhirchwjnteuhw—pcer vzrhier.oxxrevjrwjyoxrhi ;rhier.oxxrsnjuerusi?”
“Zicrquzrutr jxxrut.rqj,”rtuowrO,r“ vzrSiwrwijtrhier.oxxrzicrinrqj,r vjh
 jrwir oa.jwrevohstrvjnjrevueriddjhwrVoq— jrunjrfnjtjnyjwreirnjfjheruhw
pjrfunwihjwk”rrVjrqctjwrtiqjreoqjrihrevotkrr“ jxx,r jxx,”rtuztrvj,rqosvez
uddjaeoihuejxz,r“evuer jxx—tirzic,rO,rwjyox,ruxxr oa.jw,ruxxrfnjtjnyj,
njfjhe,rSiwrfunwihruxxk”rrVjnjrOr utrnchrwi hrusuohrpzrvoqreirevjrxute
wjsnjj;ruhwroer utrurejteoqihzreirqj,rvi revjrqjnjrhieoihtridrhuecnj,
evicsvrevjzr oxxrscowjrnjutihupxjranjuecnjtreirevjr.hi xjwsjridrurSiw,
uhwridrur intvofrinrviqusjrwcjreirevjrtcfnjqjrpjohsridrSiw,rutrevj
aihtjlcjhajridricnrhuecnj,rzjerhievohsrpcerwoyohjrnjyjxueoihrauhrdinqrevj
.hi xjwsjridrBjtctrAvnote,ruhwridrnjwjqfeoihrfcnavutjwrdinrct;ridru
Qjwoueinridrevjrhj raiyjhuhe,ruhwridruhrOhejnajttinruerevjrdiieteiixrid
Siw’trevnihj;rOrtuz,rhievohsrpcerurnjyjxueoihrdniqrVjuyjhrauhrdinqrevjtj
ohrevjrticx;ruhwrevue,revjnjdinj,revjrsitfjxridricnrXinwruhwrTuyoicn
BjtctrAvnote,rOrqjuhrevjr inwridrSiw,ruhwrevjrTfonoeridrSiw,rfniqotjwrdin
evjrscowjruhwrtuhaeodojnridrVotrfjifxj,runjrevjruptixcejxzrhjajttunz
ohtencaeintridrevjrticxtridrqjhrohrevjrtuyohsr.hi xjwsjridrSiwruhwrevj
qjuhtridrtuxyueoihk

Orevjnjdinjrwoyjnejwrevjrfnjtjherwotaicntjrpje jjhrqjruhwrqzrquh,rnotohs
cfrvuteoxz,rutrcfihrtiqjrtcwwjhriaautoihridrsiohsrice;revjhrtjhwohsrvoq
dinrtiqjevohsrursiiwr uzridd,rOrtjnoictxzrfnuzjwreirSiwrevuerVjr icxw
jhupxjrqjreirohtencaertuyohsxzrevotrfiinrtuyusj;ruttoteohs,rpzrVot
Tfonoe,revjrvjuneridrevjrfiinroshinuheranjuecnjreirnjajoyjrevjrxosverid
evjr.hi xjwsjridrSiwrohrAvnote,rnjaihaoxohsrvoqreirVoqtjxd,ruhwr icxw
scowjrqjrtireirtfju.reirvoqrdniqrevjr inwridrSiwrevuervotraihtaojhaj
qosverpjraihyohajw,rvotrjzjtrifjhjw,ruhwrvotrticxrtuyjwkrr vjhrvjrauqj
usuohreirqj,rOrjhejnjwroheirurxihsrwotaicntjr oevrvoqrcfihrevjrtcpbjaerid
evjrnjwjqfeoihridrquhrpzrevjrTuyoicnridrevjr inxw,ruhwridrevjrwiaenohjrid
evjrsitfjxrfnjuavjwrdniqrVjuyjh,ryogkridrnjfjheuhajrei unwtrSiw,ruhw
duoevrohricnrpxjttjwrXinwrBjtctkrrOrevjhrjmfxuohjwreirvoqrutr jxxrutrO
aicxwr vzricnrpxjttjwrNjwjjqjnreii.rhierihrVoqrevjrhuecnjridruhsjxtrpce
evjrtjjwridrUpnuvuq;ruhwrvi ,rdinrevuernjutih,revjrduxxjhruhsjxtrvuwrhi
tvunjrohrevjrnjwjqfeoih;revuerVjrauqjrihxzreirevjrxitertvjjfridrevjrvictj
idrOtnujx,ruhwrevjrxo.jk

Orvuw,rSiwr.hi t,rqinjrtohajnoezrevuhr.hi xjwsjrohruxxrevjrqjeviwtrOreii.
dinrevotrfiinranjuecnj’trohtencaeoih,ruhwrqcterua.hi xjwsj,r vuerO
pjxojyjruxxrevueruaercfihrevjrtuqjrfnohaofxjr oxxrdohw,revuerohrxuzohs
evohstrifjhreirvoq,rOrnjuxxzrohdinqjwruhwrohtencaejwrqztjxdrohrquhz
evohstrevuerjoevjnrOrwowrhier.hi rinrvuwrhierdcxxzraihtowjnjwrpjdinj,rpce
 voavriaacnnjwrhuecnuxxzreirqzrqohwrcfihrtjunavohsroheirevjq,rdinrevj
ohdinqueoihridrevotrfiinrtuyusj;ruhwrOrvuwrqinjruddjaeoihrohrqzrohlconz
udejnrevohstrcfihrevotriaautoihrevuhrjyjnrOrdjxerpjdinj:rtirevue,r vjevjn
evotrfiinr oxwr njeavr utrpjeejnrdinrqjrinrhi,rOrvuwrsnjuernjutihreirpj
evuh.dcxrevuerjyjnrvjrauqjreirqj;rqzrsnojdrtuerxosvejn,rcfihrqj;rqz
vupoeueoihrsnj raiqdineupxjreirqjrpjzihwrqjutcnj:ruhwr vjhrOrnjdxjaejw
evuerohrevotrtixoeunzrxodjr voavrOrvuyjrpjjhraihdohjwrei,rOrvuwrhierihxz
pjjhrqiyjwreirxii.rcfreirvjuyjhrqztjxd,ruhwreirtjj.revjrVuhwrevuervuw
pnicsverqjrvjnj,rpcer utrhi reirpjrquwjruhrohtencqjhe,rchwjnrFniyowjhaj,
eirtuyjrevjrxodj,ruhw,rdinrucsverOr.hj ,revjrticxridrurfiinrtuyusj,ruhw
pnohsrvoqreirevjrencjr.hi xjwsjridrnjxosoihruhwridrevjrAvnoteouh
wiaenohj,revuervjrqosver.hi rAvnoterBjtct,rohr viqrotrxodjrjejnhux;rO
tuz,r vjhrOrnjdxjaejwrcfihruxxrevjtjrevohst,rurtjanjerbizrnuhrevnicsv
jyjnzrfuneridrQzrticx,ruhwrOrdnjlcjhexzrnjbioajwrevuerjyjnrOr utrpnicsve
eirevotrfxuaj,r voavrOrvuwrtiridejhrevicsverevjrqiterwnjuwdcxridruxx
uddxoaeoihtrevueraicxwrfittopxzrvuyjrpjduxxjhrqjk

Oraiheohcjwrohrevotrevuh.dcxrdnuqjruxxrevjrnjquohwjnridrqzreoqj;ruhwrevj
aihyjntueoihr voavrjqfxizjwrevjrvicntrpje jjhrDnowuzruhwrqjr utrtcavrut
quwjrevjrevnjjrzjuntr voavr jrxoyjwrevjnjreisjevjnrfjndjaexzruhw
aiqfxjejxzrvuffz,rodruhzrtcavrevohsrutraiqfxjejrvuffohjttrauhrpjrdinqjw
ohrurtcpxchunzrteuejkrrEvotrtuyusjr utrhi rursiiwrAvnoteouh,rurqcav
pjeejnrevuhrO;revicsvrOrvuyjrnjutihreirvifj,ruhwrpxjttrSiwrdinroe,revue
 jr jnjrjlcuxxzrfjhoejhe,ruhwraiqdinejw,rnjteinjwrfjhoejhetkrr jrvuwrvjnj
evjr inwridrSiwreirnjuw,ruhwrhirdunevjnriddrdniqrVotrTfonoereirohtencae
evuhrodr jrvuwrpjjhrohrJhsxuhwkrrOrux uztruffxojwrqztjxd,rohrnjuwohsrevj
Tanofecnj,reirxjervoqr.hi ,rutr jxxrutrOraicxw,revjrqjuhohsridr vuerO
njuw;ruhwrvjrusuoh,rpzrvotrtjnoictrohlconojtruhwrlcjteoihohst,rquwjrqj,
utrOrtuowrpjdinj,rurqcavrpjeejnrtavixunrohrevjrTanofecnjr.hi xjwsjrevuhrO
tvicxwrjyjnrvuyjrpjjhrpzrqzri hrqjnjrfnoyuejrnjuwohskrrUhievjnrevohsrO
auhhiernjdnuohrdniqriptjnyohsrvjnjruxti,rdniqrjmfjnojhajrohrevotrnjeonjw
funeridrqzrxodj,ryogkrvi rohdohoejruhwrohjmfnjttopxjrurpxjttohsroerot
evuerevjr.hi xjwsjridrSiw,ruhwridrevjrwiaenohjridrtuxyueoihrpzrAvnote
Bjtct,rotrtirfxuohxzrxuowrwi hrohrevjr inwridrSiw,rtirjutzreirpjrnjajoyjw
uhwrchwjnteiiw,revue,rutrevjrpunjrnjuwohsrevjrTanofecnjrquwjrqjraufupxj
idrchwjnteuhwohsrjhicsvridrqzrwcezreiraunnzrqjrwonjaexzrihreirevjrsnjue
 in.ridrtohajnjrnjfjheuhajrdinrqzrtoht,ruhwrxuzohsrvixwridrurTuyoicnrdin
xodjruhwrtuxyueoih,reirurteuejwrnjdinqueoihrohrfnuaeoaj,ruhwripjwojhajrei
uxxrSiw’traiqquhwt,ruhwrevotr oeviceruhzrejuavjnrinrohtencaein,rOrqjuh
vcquh;rtirevjrtuqjrfxuohrohtencaeoihrtcddoaojhexzrtjnyjwreirevj
jhxosvejhohsrevotrtuyusjranjuecnj,ruhwrpnohsohsrvoqreirpjrtcavru
AvnoteouhrutrOrvuyjr.hi hrdj rjlcuxreirvoqrohrqzrxodjk

Utreiruxxrevjrwotfcejt,r nuhsxohs,rtenodj,ruhwraihejheoihr voavrvuyj
vuffjhjwrohrevjr inxwrupicernjxosoih,r vjevjnrhoajeojtrohrwiaenohjtrin
tavjqjtridravcnavrsiyjnhqjhe,revjzr jnjruxxrfjndjaexzrctjxjttreirct,ruhw,
dinrucsverOrauhrzjertjj,revjzrvuyjrpjjhrtireirevjrnjteridrevjr inxwkrr j
vuwrevjrtcnjrscowjreirvjuyjh,ryogkrevjr inwridrSiw;ruhwr jrvuw,rpxjttjw
pjrSiw,raiqdineupxjryoj tridrevjrTfonoeridrSiwrejuavohsruhwrohtencaeohs
pzrVotr inw,rxjuwohsrctroheiruxxrencev,ruhwrqu.ohsrctrpievr oxxohsruhw
ipjwojhereirevjrohtencaeoihridrVotr inwkrrUhwrOrauhhiertjjrevjrxjuterctj
evuerevjrsnjuejter.hi xjwsjridrevjrwotfcejwrfiohetridrnjxosoih,r voav
vuyjrquwjrtcavraihdctoihrohrevjr inxw,r icxwrvuyjrpjjhreirct,rodr jraicxw
vuyjripeuohjwroekrrPcerOrqctersirihr oevrevjrvoteinoauxrfuneridrevohst,
uhwreu.jrjyjnzrfunerohroetrinwjnk

UdejnrDnowuzruhwrOrpjauqjrqinjroheoquejxzrualcuohejw,ruhwrevuervjraicxw
chwjnteuhwruxqiteruxxrOrtuowreirvoq,ruhwrtfju.rfnjeezrdxcjhexz,revicsvroh
pni.jhrJhsxotv,reirqj,rOrualcuohejwrvoqr oevrqzri hrvoteinz,rinruerxjute
tirqcavridroerutrnjxuejwreirqzraiqohsreirevotrfxuaj:rvi rOrvuwrxoyjw
evjnj,ruhwrvi rxihs;rOrxjervoqroheirevjrqztejnz,rdinrtcavroer utreirvoq,
idrschfi wjnruhwrpcxxje,ruhwreucsvervoqrvi reirtviiekrrOrsuyjrvoqru
.hodj,r voavrvjr utr ihwjndcxxzrwjxosvejwr oev;ruhwrOrquwjrvoqrurpjxe,
 oevrurdnisrvuhsohsreiroe,rtcavrutrohrJhsxuhwr jr junrvuhsjntroh;ruhwroh
evjrdnis,rohtejuwridrurvuhsjn,rOrsuyjrvoqrurvueavje,r voavr utrhierihxz
utrsiiwrur jufihrohrtiqjrautjt,rpcerqcavrqinjrctjdcxrcfihrievjn
iaautoihtk

OrwjtanopjwreirvoqrevjraichenzridrJcnifj,rfuneoacxunxzrJhsxuhw,r voavrO
auqjrdniq;rvi r jrxoyjw,rvi r jr intvoffjwrSiw,rvi r jrpjvuyjwreirihj
uhievjn,ruhwrvi r jrenuwjwrohrtvoftreiruxxrfunetridrevjr inxwkrrOrsuyj
voqruhruaaicheridrevjr nja.r voavrOrvuwrpjjhrihrpiunwrid,ruhwrtvi jwrvoq,
utrhjunrutrOraicxw,revjrfxuajr vjnjrtvjrxuz;rpcertvjr utruxxrpjuejhroh
fojajtrpjdinj,ruhwrsihjkrrOrtvi jwrvoqrevjrncohtridricnrpiue,r voavr j
xiter vjhr jrjtaufjw,ruhwr voavrOraicxwrhierteonr oevrqzr vixjrtenjhsev
evjh;rpcer utrhi rduxxjhruxqiteruxxreirfojajtkrrCfihrtjjohsrevotrpiue,
Dnowuzrteiiw,rqctohsrursnjuer voxj,ruhwrtuowrhievohskrrOrut.jwrvoqr vue
oer utrvjrtecwojwrcfihkrrUerxutertuztrvj,r“Qjrtjjrtcavrpiuerxo.jraiqjrei
fxuajruerqzrhueoihk”rrOrwowrhierchwjnteuhwrvoqrursiiwr voxj;rpceruerxute,
 vjhrOrvuwrjmuqohjwrdcnevjnroheiroe,rOrchwjnteiiwrpzrvoqrevuerurpiue,
tcavrutrevuervuwrpjjh,rauqjrihrtvinjrcfihrevjraichenzr vjnjrvjrxoyjw:
evuerot,rutrvjrjmfxuohjwroe,r utrwnoyjhrevoevjnrpzrtenjttridr juevjnkrrO
fnjtjhexzroqusohjwrevuertiqjrJcnifjuhrtvofrqctervuyjrpjjhrauteru uzrcfih
evjonraiute,ruhwrevjrpiuerqosversjerxiitjruhwrwnoyjrutvinj;rpcer utrti
wcxxrevuerOrhjyjnrihajrevicsveridrqjhrqu.ohsrevjonrjtaufjrdniqrur nja.
evoevjn,rqcavrxjttr vjhajrevjzrqosveraiqj:rtirOrihxzrohlconjwrudejnru
wjtanofeoihridrevjrpiuek

Dnowuzrwjtanopjwrevjrpiuereirqjr jxxrjhicsv;rpcerpnicsverqjrpjeejnrei
chwjnteuhwrvoqr vjhrvjruwwjwr oevrtiqjr unqev,r“ jrtuyjrevjr voejrquht
dniqrwni hk”rrEvjhrOrfnjtjhexzrut.jwrodrevjnjr jnjruhzr voejrquht,rutrvj
auxxjwrevjq,rohrevjrpiuekrr“Zjt,”rvjrtuow;r“evjrpiuerdcxxridr voejrquhtk”
Orut.jwrvoqrvi rquhzkrrVjreixwrcfihrvotrdohsjntrtjyjhejjhkrrOrut.jwrvoq
evjhr vuerpjauqjridrevjqkrrVjreixwrqj,r“Evjzrxoyj,revjzrw jxxruerqz
hueoihk”

Evotrfcerhj revicsvetroheirqzrvjuw;rdinrOrfnjtjhexzroqusohjwrevuerevjtj
qosverpjrevjrqjhrpjxihsohsreirevjrtvofrevuer utrauteru uzrohrevjrtosverid
qzrotxuhw,rutrOrhi rauxxjwroe;ruhwr vi,rudejnrevjrtvofr utrtenca.rihrevj
nia.,ruhwrevjzrtu rvjnrohjyoeupxzrxite,rvuwrtuyjwrevjqtjxyjtrohrevjon
piue,ruhwr jnjrxuhwjwrcfihrevuer oxwrtvinjruqihsrevjrtuyusjtkrrCfihrevot
Orohlconjwridrvoqrqinjranoeoauxxzr vuer utrpjaiqjridrevjqkrrVjruttcnjwrqj
evjzrxoyjwrteoxxrevjnj;revuerevjzrvuwrpjjhrevjnjrupicerdicnrzjunt;revue
evjrtuyusjtrxjderevjqruxihj,ruhwrsuyjrevjqryoaecuxtreirxoyjrihkrrOrut.jw
voqrvi roerauqjreirfuttrevjzrwowrhier.oxxrevjqruhwrjuerevjqkrrVjrtuow,
“Hi,revjzrqu.jrpnievjnr oevrevjq;”revuerot,rutrOrchwjnteiiwrvoq,rurencaj;
uhwrevjhrvjruwwjw,r“Evjzrhirjuerquhtrpcer vjhrqu.jrevjr unrdosve;”revue
otreirtuz,revjzrhjyjnrjueruhzrqjhrpcertcavrutraiqjreirdosver oevrevjqruhw
unjreu.jhrohrpueexjk

Oer utrudejnrevotrtiqjraihtowjnupxjreoqj,revuerpjohsrcfihrevjreifridrevj
voxxruerevjrjutertowjridrevjrotxuhw,rdniqr vjhaj,rutrOrvuyjrtuow,rOrvuw,
ohruraxjunrwuz,rwotaiyjnjwrevjrquohrinraiheohjheridrUqjnoau,rDnowuz,revj
 juevjnrpjohsryjnzrtjnjhj,rxii.tryjnzrjunhjtexzrei unwtrevjrquohxuhw,
uhw,rohrur.ohwridrtcnfnotj,rduxxtrurbcqfohsruhwrwuhaohs,ruhwrauxxtricerei
qj,rdinrOr utruertiqjrwoteuhajrdniqrvoqkrrOrut.jwrvoqr vuer utrevj
queejnkrr“Iv,rbiz!”rtuztrvj;r“Iv,rsxuw!revjnjrtjjrqzraichenz,revjnjrqz
hueoih!”rrOriptjnyjwruhrjmenuinwohunzrtjhtjridrfxjutcnjruffjunjwrohrvot
duaj,ruhwrvotrjzjtrtfun.xjw,ruhwrvotraichejhuhajrwotaiyjnjwrurtenuhsj
jusjnhjtt,rutrodrvjrvuwrurqohwreirpjrohrvotri hraichenzrusuohkrrEvot
iptjnyueoihridrqohjrfcerursnjuerquhzrevicsvetroheirqj,r voavrquwjrqjrue
donterhiertirjutzrupicerqzrhj rquhrDnowuzrutrOr utrpjdinj;ruhwrOrquwjrhi
wicperpcerevue,rodrDnowuzraicxwrsjerpua.reirvotri hrhueoihrusuoh,rvj
 icxwrhierihxzrdinsjeruxxrvotrnjxosoihrpceruxxrvotripxosueoihreirqj,ruhw
 icxwrpjrdin unwrjhicsvreirsoyjrvotraichenzqjhruhruaaicheridrqj,ruhwraiqj
pua.,rfjnvuftr oevrurvchwnjwrinre iridrevjq,ruhwrqu.jrurdjutercfihrqj,rue
 voavrvjrqosverpjrutrqjnnzrutrvjrctjwreirpjr oevrevitjridrvotrjhjqojt
 vjhrevjzr jnjreu.jhrohr unkrrPcerOr nihsjwrevjrfiinrvihjteranjuecnjryjnz
qcav,rdinr voavrOr utryjnzrtinnzrudejn unwtkrrVi jyjn,rutrqzrbjuxictz
ohanjutjw,ruhwrvjxwrtiqjr jj.t,rOr utrurxoeexjrqinjraonacqtfjae,ruhwrhie
tirduqoxounruhwr.ohwreirvoqrutrpjdinj:rohr voavrOr utrajneuohxzr nihs
eii;revjrvihjte,rsnuejdcxranjuecnjrvuyohsrhirevicsverupiceroerpcer vue
aihtotejwr oevrevjrpjterfnohaofxjt,rpievrutrurnjxosoictrAvnoteouhruhwrut
ursnuejdcxrdnojhw,rutruffjunjwrudejn unwtreirqzrdcxxrtueotduaeoihk

 voxjrqzrbjuxictzridrvoqrxutejw,rzicrquzrpjrtcnjrOr utrjyjnzrwuzrfcqfohs
voqreirtjjrodrvjr icxwrwotaiyjnruhzridrevjrhj revicsvetr voavrOrtctfjaejw
 jnjrohrvoq;rpcerOrdichwrjyjnzevohsrvjrtuowr utrtirvihjteruhwrti
ohhiajhe,revuerOraicxwrdohwrhievohsreirhicnotvrqzrtctfoaoih;ruhwrohrtfoej
idruxxrqzrchjutohjtt,rvjrquwjrqjruerxuterjheonjxzrvotri hrusuoh;rhinrwow
vjrohrevjrxjuterfjnajoyjrevuerOr utrchjutz,ruhwrevjnjdinjrOraicxwrhie
tctfjaervoqridrwjajoek

Ihjrwuz,r ux.ohsrcfrevjrtuqjrvoxx,rpcerevjr juevjnrpjohsrvugzruertju,rti
evuer jraicxwrhiertjjrevjraiheohjhe,rOrauxxjwreirvoq,ruhwrtuow,r“Dnowuz,
wirhierzicr otvrzicntjxdrohrzicnri hraichenz,rzicnri hrhueoih?”rr“Zjt,”
vjrtuow,r“OrpjrqcavrIrsxuwreirpjruerqzri hrhueoihk”rr“ vuer icxwrzicrwi
evjnj?”rtuowrOkrr“ icxwrzicrecnhr oxwrusuoh,rjuerqjh’trdxjtvrusuoh,ruhw
pjrurtuyusjrutrzicr jnjrpjdinj?”rrVjrxii.jwrdcxxridraihajnh,ruhwrtvu.ohs
votrvjuw,rtuow,r“Hi,rhi,rDnowuzrejxxrevjqreirxoyjrsiiw;rejxxrevjqreirfnuz
Siw;rejxxrevjqreirjuerainh-pnjuw,raueexjrdxjtv,rqox.;rhirjuerquhrusuohk”
“ vz,revjh,”rtuowrOreirvoq,r“evjzr oxxr.oxxrzick”rrVjrxii.jwrsnuyjrue
evue,ruhwrevjhrtuow,r“Hi,rhi,revjzrhir.oxxrqj,revjzr oxxohsrxiyjrxjunhk”
Vjrqjuherpzrevot,revjzr icxwrpjr oxxohsreirxjunhkrrVjruwwjw,revjzrxjunhjw
qcavridrevjrpjunwjwrquhtrevuerauqjrohrevjrpiuekrrEvjhrOrut.jwrvoqrodrvj
 icxwrsirpua.reirevjqkrrVjrtqoxjwruerevue,ruhwreixwrqjrevuervjraicxwrhie
t oqrtirdunkrrOreixwrvoqrOr icxwrqu.jrurauhijrdinrvoqkrrVjreixwrqjrvj
 icxwrsirodrOr icxwrsir oevrvoqkrr“Orsi!”rtuztrO;r“ vz,revjzr oxxrjuerqj
odrOraiqjrevjnjk”rr“Hi,rhi,”rtuztrvj,r“qjrqu.jrevjzrhirjuerzic;rqjrqu.j
evjzrqcavrxiyjrzick”rrVjrqjuhe,rvjr icxwrejxxrevjqrvi rOrvuwr.oxxjwrvot
jhjqojt,ruhwrtuyjwrvotrxodj,ruhwrtirvjr icxwrqu.jrevjqrxiyjrqjkrrEvjhrvj
eixwrqj,rutr jxxrutrvjraicxw,rvi r.ohwrevjzr jnjreirtjyjhejjhr voejrqjh,
inrpjunwjwrqjh,rutrvjrauxxjwrevjqr virauqjrihrtvinjrevjnjrohrwotenjttk

Dniqrevotreoqj,rOraihdjtt,rOrvuwrurqohwreiryjhecnjriyjn,ruhwrtjjrodrO
aicxwrfittopxzrbiohr oevrevitjrpjunwjwrqjh,r virOrquwjrhirwicper jnj
TfuhounwtruhwrFinecscjtj;rhierwicpeohsrpce,rodrOraicxw,r jrqosverdohw
tiqjrqjeviwreirjtaufjrdniqrevjhaj,rpjohsrcfihrevjraiheohjhe,ruhwrursiiw
aiqfuhzreisjevjn,rpjeejnrevuhrOraicxwrdniqruhrotxuhwrdinezrqoxjtriddrevj
tvinj,ruxihjruhwr oevicervjxfkrrTi,rudejnrtiqjrwuzt,rOreii.rDnowuzrei
 in.rusuohrpzr uzridrwotaicntj,ruhwreixwrvoqrOr icxwrsoyjrvoqrurpiuerei
sirpua.reirvotri hrhueoih;ruhw,ruaainwohsxz,rOraunnojwrvoqreirqzrdnosuej,
 voavrxuzrihrevjrievjnrtowjridrevjrotxuhw,ruhwrvuyohsraxjunjwroeridr uejn
(dinrOrux uztr.jferoertch.rohr uejn),rOrpnicsveroerice,rtvi jwroervoq,
uhwr jrpievr jheroheiroekrrOrdichwrvjr utrurqiterwjmejnictrdjxxi rue
quhusohsroe,ruhwr icxwrqu.jroersiruxqiterutrt oderusuohrutrOraicxwkrrTi
 vjhrvjr utroh,rOrtuowreirvoq,r“ jxx,rhi ,rDnowuz,rtvuxxr jrsireirzicn
hueoih?”rrVjrxii.jwryjnzrwcxxruerqzrtuzohsrti;r voavroertjjqtr utrpjauctj
vjrevicsverevjrpiuer utreiirtquxxreirsirtirdunkrrOrevjhreixwrvoqrOrvuwru
possjn;rtirevjrhjmerwuzrOr jhereirevjrfxuajr vjnjrevjrdonterpiuerxuz
 voavrOrvuwrquwj,rpcer voavrOraicxwrhiersjeroheirevjr uejnkrrVjrtuowrevue
 utrposrjhicsv;rpcerevjh,rutrOrvuwreu.jhrhiraunjridroe,ruhwroervuwrxuoh
e irinrevnjjruhwre jhezrzjuntrevjnj,revjrtchrvuwrtirtfxoeruhwrwnojwroe,
evueroer utrnieejhkrrDnowuzreixwrqjrtcavrurpiuer icxwrwiryjnzr jxx,ruhw
 icxwraunnzr“qcavrjhicsvryoeexj,rwnoh.,rpnjuw;”revotr utrvotr uzrid
eux.ohsk




AVUFEJNrMYO—NJTACJrIDrFNOTIHJNTrDNIQrAUHHOPUXT


Cfihrevjr vixj,rOr utrpzrevotreoqjrtirdomjwrcfihrqzrwjtoshridrsiohsriyjn
 oevrvoqreirevjraiheohjherevuerOreixwrvoqr jr icxwrsiruhwrqu.jrihjrutrpos
utrevue,ruhwrvjrtvicxwrsirviqjrohroekrrVjruht jnjwrhierihjr inw,rpce
xii.jwryjnzrsnuyjruhwrtuwkrrOrut.jwrvoqr vuer utrevjrqueejnr oevrvoqkrrVj
ut.jwrqjrusuoh,r“ vzrzicruhsnzrquwr oevrDnowuz?— vuerqjrwihj?”rrOrut.jw
voqr vuervjrqjuhekrrOreixwrvoqrOr utrhieruhsnzr oevrvoqrueruxxkrr“Hi
uhsnz!”rtuztrvj,rnjfjueohsrevjr inwtrtjyjnuxreoqjt;r“ vzrtjhwrDnowuzrviqj
u uzreirqzrhueoih?”rr“ vz,”rtuztrO,r“Dnowuz,rwowrhierzicrtuzrzicr otvjw
zicr jnjrevjnj?”rr“Zjt,rzjt,”rtuztrvj,r“ otvr jrpievrevjnj;rhir otv
Dnowuzrevjnj,rhirqutejnrevjnjk”rrOhrur inw,rvjr icxwrhierevoh.ridrsiohs
evjnjr oevicerqjkrr“Orsirevjnj,rDnowuz?”rtuztrO;r“ vuertvuxxrOrwirevjnj?”
Vjrecnhjwryjnzrlcoa.rcfihrqjruerevotkrr“Zicrwirsnjuerwjuxrqcavrsiiw,”
tuztrvj;r“zicrejuavr oxwrquhtrpjrsiiw,rtipjn,reuqjrquht;rzicrejxxrevjq
.hi rSiw,rfnuzrSiw,ruhwrxoyjrhj rxodjk”rr“Uxut,rDnowuz!”rtuztrO,r“evic
.hi jterhier vuerevicrtuzjte;rOruqrpceruhroshinuherquhrqztjxdk”rr“Zjt,
zjt,”rtuztrvj,r“zicrejuavjjrqjrsiiw,rzicrejuavjjrevjqrsiiwk”rr“Hi,rhi,
Dnowuz,”rtuztrO,r“zicrtvuxxrsir oevicerqj;rxjuyjrqjrvjnjreirxoyjrpz
qztjxd,rutrOrwowrpjdinjk”rrVjrxii.jwraihdctjwrusuohruerevuer inw;ruhw
nchhohsreirihjridrevjrvueavjetr voavrvjrctjwreir jun,rvjreu.jtroercf
vuteoxz,ruhwrsoyjtroereirqjkrr“ vuerqcterOrwir oevrevot?”rtuztrOreirvoqk
“Zicreu.jr.oxxrDnowuz,”rtuztrvjkrr“ vuerqcter.oxxrzicrdin?”rtuowrOrusuohk
Vjrnjecnhtryjnzrlcoa.—“ vuerzicrtjhwrDnowuzru uzrdin?rrEu.jr.oxxrDnowuz,
hirtjhwrDnowuzru uzk”rrEvotrvjrtfi.jrtirjunhjtexzrevuerOrtu rejuntrteuhw
ohrvotrjzjtkrrOhrur inw,rOrtirfxuohxzrwotaiyjnjwrevjrceqiteruddjaeoihroh
voqreirqj,ruhwrurdonqrnjtixceoihrohrvoq,revuerOreixwrvoqrevjhruhwridejh
udejn,revuerOr icxwrhjyjnrtjhwrvoqru uzrdniqrqjrodrvjr utr oxxohsreirteuz
 oevrqjk

Cfihrevjr vixj,rutrOrdichwrpzruxxrvotrwotaicntjrurtjeexjwruddjaeoihrei
qj,ruhwrevuerhievohsraicxwrfunervoqrdniqrqj,rtirOrdichwruxxrevj
dichwueoihridrvotrwjtonjreirsireirvotri hraichenzr utrxuowrohrvotrunwjhe
uddjaeoihreirevjrfjifxj,ruhwrvotrvifjtridrqzrwiohsrevjqrsiiw;rurevohs
 voav,rutrOrvuwrhirhieoihridrqztjxd,rtirOrvuwrhierevjrxjuterevicsverin
ohejheoih,rinrwjtonjridrchwjneu.ohsroekrrPcerteoxxrOrdichwrurtenihs
ohaxohueoihreirueejqfeohsrqzrjtaufj,rdichwjwrihrevjrtcffitoeoihrsuevjnjw
dniqrevjrwotaicntj,revuerevjnjr jnjrtjyjhejjhrpjunwjwrqjhrevjnj;ruhw
evjnjdinj,r oeviceruhzrqinjrwjxuz,rOr jhereir in.r oevrDnowuzreirdohwrice
ursnjuerenjjrfnifjnreirdjxx,ruhwrqu.jrurxunsjrfjnouscu,rinrauhij,rei
chwjneu.jrevjryizusjkrrEvjnjr jnjrenjjtrjhicsvrohrevjrotxuhwreirvuyj
pcoxerurxoeexjrdxjje,rhieridrfjnouscutrinrauhijt,rpcerjyjhridrsiiw,rxunsj
yjttjxt;rpcerevjrquohrevohsrOrxii.jwruer ut,reirsjerihjrtirhjunrevjr uejn
evuer jrqosverxuchavroer vjhroer utrquwj,reiruyiowrevjrqoteu.jrO
aiqqoeejwruerdontekrrUerxuterDnowuzrfoeavjwrcfihrurenjj;rdinrOrdichwrvj
.hj rqcavrpjeejnrevuhrOr vuer.ohwridr iiwr utrdoeejterdinroe;rhinrauhrO
ejxxreirevotrwuzr vuer iiwreirauxxrevjrenjjr jracerwi h,rjmajferevueroe
 utryjnzrxo.jrevjrenjjr jrauxxrdcteoa,rinrpje jjhrevueruhwrevjrHoaunuscu
 iiw,rdinroer utrqcavridrevjrtuqjraixicnruhwrtqjxxkrrDnowuzr otvjwrei
pcnhrevjrvixxi rinrauyoezridrevotrenjjrice,reirqu.jroerdinrurpiue,rpcerO
tvi jwrvoqrvi reiraceroer oevreiixt;r voav,rudejnrOrvuwrtvi jwrvoqrvi rei
ctj,rvjrwowryjnzrvuhwoxz;ruhwrohrupicerurqihev’trvunwrxupicnr jrdohotvjw
oeruhwrquwjroeryjnzrvuhwtiqj;rjtfjaouxxzr vjh,r oevricnrumjt,r voavrO
tvi jwrvoqrvi reirvuhwxj,r jraceruhwrvj jwrevjricetowjroheirevjrencj
tvufjridrurpiuekrrUdejnrevot,rvi jyjn,roeraiterctrhjunrurdinehosve’treoqj
eirsjervjnruxihs,rutroer jnjrohavrpzrohav,rcfihrsnjuernixxjntroheirevj
 uejn;rpcer vjhrtvjr utroh,rtvjr icxwrvuyjraunnojwre jhezrqjhr oevrsnjue
jutjk

 vjhrtvjr utrohrevjr uejn,revicsvrtvjr utrtirpos,roeruqugjwrqjreirtjj
 oevr vuerwjmejnoezruhwrvi rt oderqzrquhrDnowuzraicxwrquhusjrvjn,recnh
vjn,ruhwrfuwwxjrvjnruxihskrrTirOrut.jwrvoqrodrvjr icxw,ruhwrodr jrqosve
yjhecnjriyjnrohrvjnkrr“Zjt,”rvjrtuow,r“ jryjhecnjriyjnrohrvjnryjnzr jxx,
evicsvrsnjuerpxi r ohwk”rrVi jyjnrOrvuwrurdcnevjnrwjtoshrevuervjr.hj 
hievohsrid,ruhwrevuer ut,reirqu.jrurquteruhwrurtuox,ruhwreirdoervjnr oev
uhruhavinruhwraupxjkrrUtreirurqute,revuer utrjutzrjhicsvreirsje;rtirO
foeavjwrcfihrurtenuosverzichsrajwun-enjj,r voavrOrdichwrhjunrevjrfxuaj,
uhwr voavrevjnjr jnjrsnjuerfxjhezridrohrevjrotxuhw,ruhwrOrtjerDnowuzrei
 in.reiraceroerwi h,ruhwrsuyjrvoqrwonjaeoihtrvi reirtvufjruhwrinwjnroek
Pcerutreirevjrtuox,revuer utrqzrfuneoacxunraunjkrrOr.hj rOrvuwrixwrtuoxt,
inrnuevjnrfojajtridrixwrtuoxt,rjhicsv;rpcerutrOrvuwrvuwrevjqrhi 
tom-uhw-e jhezrzjuntrpzrqj,ruhwrvuwrhierpjjhryjnzraunjdcxreirfnjtjnyj
evjq,rhieroqusohohsrevuerOrtvicxwrjyjnrvuyjrevotr.ohwridrctjrdinrevjq,rO
wowrhierwicperpcerevjzr jnjruxxrnieejh;ruhw,rohwjjw,rqiteridrevjqr jnj
tikrrVi jyjn,rOrdichwre irfojajtr voavruffjunjwrfnjeezrsiiw,ruhwr oev
evjtjrOr jhereir in.;ruhwr oevrursnjuerwjuxridrfuoht,ruhwru . unw
teoeavohs,rzicrquzrpjrtcnj,rdinr uheridrhjjwxjt,rOruerxjhsevrquwjru
evnjj-ainhjnjwrcsxzrevohs,rxo.jr vuer jrauxxrohrJhsxuhwru
tvicxwjn-id-qceeihrtuox,reirsir oevrurpiiqruerpieeiq,ruhwrurxoeexjrtvine
tfnoeruerevjreif,rtcavrutrctcuxxzricnrtvoft’rxihs-piuetrtuoxr oev,ruhw
tcavrutrOrpjter.hj rvi reirquhusj,rutroer utrtcavrurihjrutrOrvuwreirevj
piuerohr voavrOrquwjrqzrjtaufjrdniqrPunpunz,rutrnjxuejwrohrevjrdonterfune
idrqzrteinzk

Or utrhjunre irqihevtrfjndinqohsrevotrxuter in.,ryogkrnossohsruhwrdoeeohs
qzrqutetruhwrtuoxt;rdinrOrdohotvjwrevjqryjnzraiqfxjej,rqu.ohsrurtquxx
teuz,ruhwrurtuox,rinrdinjtuox,reiroe,reiruttoterodr jrtvicxwrecnhrei
 ohw unw;ruhw,r vuer utrqinjrevuhruxx,rOrdomjwrurncwwjnreirevjrtejnhrid
vjnreirtejjnr oevkrrOr utrpcerurpchsxohsrtvof nosve,rzjerutrOr.hj revj
ctjdcxhjttruhwrjyjhrhjajttoezridrtcavrurevohs,rOruffxojwrqztjxdr oevrti
qcavrfuohtreirwiroe,revueruerxuterOrpnicsveroereirfutt;revicsv,
aihtowjnohsrevjrquhzrwcxxraihenoyuhajtrOrvuwrdinroerevuerduoxjw,rOrevoh.
oeraiterqjruxqiterutrqcavrxupicnrutrqu.ohsrevjrpiuek

Udejnruxxrevotr utrwihj,rOrvuwrqzrquhrDnowuzreirejuavrutreir vuerpjxihsjw
eirevjrhuyosueoihridrqzrpiue;revicsvrvjr.hj ryjnzr jxxrvi reirfuwwxjru
auhij,rvjr.hj rhievohsridr vuerpjxihsjwreirurtuoxruhwrurncwwjn;ruhwr ut
evjrqiteruqugjwr vjhrvjrtu rqjr in.revjrpiuereiruhwrusuohrohrevjrtjurpz
evjrncwwjn,ruhwrvi revjrtuoxrbopjw,ruhwrdoxxjwrevotr uzrinrevuer uzrut
evjraicntjr jrtuoxjwravuhsjw;rOrtuzr vjhrvjrtu revotrvjrteiiwrxo.jrihj
uteihotvjwruhwruqugjwkrrVi jyjn,r oevrurxoeexjrctj,rOrquwjruxxrevjtj
evohstrduqoxounreirvoq,ruhwrvjrpjauqjruhrjmfjnertuoxin,rjmajferevuerid
evjraiqfuttrOraicxwrqu.jrvoqrchwjnteuhwryjnzrxoeexjkrrIhrevjrievjnrvuhw,
utrevjnjr utryjnzrxoeexjraxicwzr juevjn,ruhwrtjxwiqrinrhjyjnruhzrdistroh
evitjrfunet,revjnjr utrevjrxjttriaautoihrdinruraiqfutt,rtjjohsrevjrteunt
 jnjrux uztreirpjrtjjhrpzrhosve,ruhwrevjrtvinjrpzrwuz,rjmajferohrevj
nuohzrtjutiht,ruhwrevjhrhipiwzraunjwreirteonrupniuwrjoevjnrpzrxuhwrin
tjuk

Or utrhi rjhejnjwrihrevjrtjyjh-uhw-e jheojevrzjunridrqzraufeoyoezrohrevot
fxuaj;revicsvrevjrevnjjrxuterzjuntrevuerOrvuwrevotranjuecnjr oevrqjricsve
nuevjnreirpjrxjdericeridrevjruaaiche,rqzrvupoeueoihrpjohsrlcoejrid
uhievjnr.ohwrevuhrohruxxrevjrnjteridrevjreoqjkrrOr.jferevjruhhoyjntunzrid
qzrxuhwohsrvjnjr oevrevjrtuqjrevuh.dcxhjttreirSiwrdinrVotrqjnaojtrutrue
donte:ruhwrodrOrvuwrtcavrauctjridrua.hi xjwsqjheruerdonte,rOrvuwrqcav
qinjrtirhi ,rvuyohsrtcavruwwoeoihuxrejteoqihojtridrevjraunjridrFniyowjhaj
iyjnrqj,ruhwrevjrsnjuervifjtrOrvuwridrpjohsrjddjaecuxxzruhwrtfjjwoxz
wjxoyjnjw;rdinrOrvuwruhrohyohaopxjroqfnjttoihrcfihrqzrevicsvetrevuerqz
wjxoyjnuhajr utruervuhw,ruhwrevuerOrtvicxwrhierpjruhievjnrzjunrohrevot
fxuajkrrOr jherih,rvi jyjn,r oevrqzrvctpuhwnz;rwossohs,rfxuheohs,ruhw
djhaohsrutrctcuxkrrOrsuevjnjwruhwracnjwrqzrsnufjt,ruhwrwowrjyjnz
hjajttunzrevohsrutrpjdinjk

Evjrnuohzrtjutihr utrohrevjrqjuheoqjrcfihrqj,r vjhrOr.jferqinjr oevoh
wiintrevuhruerievjnreoqjtkrr jrvuwrtei jwricnrhj ryjttjxrutrtjacnjrutr j
aicxw,rpnohsohsrvjnrcfroheirevjranjj.,r vjnj,rutrOrtuowrohrevjrpjsohhohs,
Orxuhwjwrqzrnudetrdniqrevjrtvof;ruhwrvucxohsrvjnrcfreirevjrtvinjrue
vosv- uejnrqun.,rOrquwjrqzrquhrDnowuzrwosrurxoeexjrwia.,rbcterposrjhicsv
eirvixwrvjn,ruhwrbcterwjjfrjhicsvreirsoyjrvjnr uejnrjhicsvreirdxiueroh;
uhwrevjh,r vjhrevjreowjr utrice,r jrquwjrurtenihsrwuqruanittrevjrjhwrid
oe,reir.jjfrevjr uejnrice;ruhwrtirtvjrxuz,rwnzrutreirevjreowjrdniqrevj
tju:ruhwreir.jjfrevjrnuohriddr jrxuowrursnjuerquhzrpicsvtridrenjjt,rti
evoa.revuertvjr utrutr jxxrevueavjwrutrurvictj;ruhwrevctr jr uoejwrdin
evjrqihevtridrHiyjqpjnruhwrWjajqpjn,rohr voavrOrwjtoshjwreirqu.jrqz
uwyjhecnjk

 vjhrevjrtjeexjwrtjutihrpjsuhreiraiqjroh,rutrevjrevicsveridrqzrwjtosh
njecnhjwr oevrevjrduonr juevjn,rOr utrfnjfunohsrwuoxzrdinrevjryizusjk
UhwrevjrdonterevohsrOrwowr utreirxuzrpzrurajneuohrlcuheoezridrfniyotoiht,
pjohsrevjrteinjtrdinricnryizusj;ruhwrohejhwjwrohrur jj.rinrurdinehosve’t
eoqjreirifjhrevjrwia.,ruhwrxuchavricericnrpiuekrrOr utrpctzrihjrqinhohs
cfihrtiqjevohsridrevotr.ohw,r vjhrOrauxxjwreirDnowuz,ruhwrpowrvoqreirsi
eirevjrtju-tvinjruhwrtjjrodrvjraicxwrdohwrurecnexjrinrureineiotj,rurevohs
 voavr jrsjhjnuxxzrsierihajrur jj.,rdinrevjrtu.jridrevjrjsstrutr jxxrut
evjrdxjtvkrrDnowuzrvuwrhierpjjhrxihsrsihjr vjhrvjrauqjrnchhohsrpua.,ruhw
dxj riyjnrqzricejnr uxxrinrdjhaj,rxo.jrihjrevuerdjxerhierevjrsnichwrin
evjrtejftrvjrtjervotrdiierih;ruhwrpjdinjrOrvuwreoqjreirtfju.reirvoqrvj
anojtricereirqj,r“Irqutejn!rIrqutejn!rIrtinni !rIrpuw!”—“ vue’trevj
queejn,rDnowuz?”rtuztrOkrr“Irzihwjnrevjnj,”rtuztrvj,r“ihj,re i,revnjj
auhijt;rihj,re i,revnjj!”rrPzrevotr uzridrtfju.ohsrOraihaxcwjwrevjnjr jnj
tom;rpcerihrohlconzrOrdichwrevjnjr jnjrpcerevnjjkrr“ jxx,rDnowuz,”rtuzt
O,r“wirhierpjrdnosvejhjwk”rrTirOrvjunejhjwrvoqrcfrutr jxxrutrOraicxwk
Vi jyjn,rOrtu revjrfiinrdjxxi r utrqiterejnnopxzrtaunjw,rdinrhievohsrnuh
ohrvotrvjuwrpcerevuerevjzr jnjraiqjreirxii.rdinrvoq,ruhwr icxwracervoqroh
fojajtruhwrjuervoq;ruhwrevjrfiinrdjxxi renjqpxjwrtirevuerOrtaunajxzr.hj 
 vuereirwir oevrvoqkrrOraiqdinejwrvoqrutr jxxrutrOraicxw,ruhwreixwrvoqrO
 utrohrutrqcavrwuhsjnrutrvj,ruhwrevuerevjzr icxwrjuerqjrutr jxxrutrvoqk
“Pce,”rtuztrO,r“Dnowuz,r jrqcternjtixyjreirdosverevjqkrrAuhrzicrdosve,
Dnowuz?”rr“Qjrtviie,”rtuztrvj,r“pcerevjnjraiqjrquhzrsnjuerhcqpjnk”rr“Hi
queejnrdinrevue,”rtuowrOrusuoh;r“icnrschtr oxxrdnosverevjqrevuer jrwirhie
.oxxk”rrTirOrut.jwrvoqr vjevjn,rodrOrnjtixyjwreirwjdjhwrvoq,rvjr icxw
wjdjhwrqj,ruhwrteuhwrpzrqj,ruhwrwirbcterutrOrpowrvoqkrrVjrtuow,r“Qjrwoj
 vjhrzicrpowrwoj,rqutejnk”rrTirOr jheruhwrdjeavjwrursiiwrwnuqridrncqruhw
suyjrvoq;rdinrOrvuwrpjjhrtirsiiwrurvctpuhwridrqzrncqrevuerOrvuwrursnjue
wjuxrxjdekrr vjhr jrvuwrwnch.roe,rOrquwjrvoqreu.jrevjre irdi xohs-fojajt,
 voavr jrux uztraunnojw,ruhwrxiuwjwrevjqr oevrxunsjrt uh-tvie,rutrposrut
tquxxrfoteix-pcxxjetkrrEvjhrOreii.rdicnrqct.jet,ruhwrxiuwjwrevjqr oevre i
txcstruhwrdoyjrtquxxrpcxxjetrjuav;ruhwrqzre irfoteixtrOrxiuwjwr oevru
pnuajridrpcxxjetrjuavkrrOrvchsrqzrsnjuert inw,rutrctcux,rhu.jwrpzrqz
towj,ruhwrsuyjrDnowuzrvotrvueavjekrr vjhrOrvuwrevctrfnjfunjwrqztjxd,rO
eii.rqzrfjntfjaeoyjrsxutt,ruhwr jhercfreirevjrtowjridrevjrvoxx,reirtjj
 vuerOraicxwrwotaiyjn;ruhwrOrdichwrlcoa.xzrpzrqzrsxuttrevuerevjnjr jnj
ihj-uhw-e jhezrtuyusjt,revnjjrfnotihjnt,ruhwrevnjjrauhijt;ruhwrevuerevjon
 vixjrpctohjttrtjjqjwreirpjrevjrenocqfvuherpuhlcjercfihrevjtjrevnjjrvcquh
piwojt:rurpunpunictrdjute,rohwjjw!rpcerhievohsrqinjrevuh,rutrOrvuw
iptjnyjw,r utrctcuxr oevrevjqkrrOriptjnyjwruxtirevuerevjzrvuwrxuhwjw,rhie
 vjnjrevjzrvuwrwihjr vjhrDnowuzrquwjrvotrjtaufj,rpcerhjunjnreirqzranjj.,
 vjnjrevjrtvinjr utrxi ,ruhwr vjnjrurevoa.r iiwrauqjruxqiteraxitjrwi hrei
evjrtjukrrEvot,r oevrevjrupvinnjhajridrevjrohvcquhrjnnuhwrevjtjr njeavjt
auqjrupice,rdoxxjwrqjr oevrtcavrohwoshueoihrevuerOrauqjrwi hrusuohrei
Dnowuz,ruhwreixwrvoqrOr utrnjtixyjwreirsirwi hreirevjqruhwr.oxxrevjqruxx;
uhwrut.jwrvoqrodrvjr icxwrteuhwrpzrqjkrrVjrvuwrhi rsieriyjnrvotrdnosve,
uhwrvotrtfonoetrpjohsrurxoeexjrnuotjwr oevrevjrwnuqrOrvuwrsoyjhrvoq,rvj
 utryjnzravjjndcx,ruhwreixwrqj,rutrpjdinj,rvjr icxwrwojr vjhrOrpowrwojk

OhrevotrdoeridrdcnzrOrwoyowjwrevjrunqtr voavrOrvuwravunsjw,rutrpjdinj,
pje jjhrct;rOrsuyjrDnowuzrihjrfoteixreirteoa.rohrvotrsonwxj,ruhwrevnjj
schtrcfihrvotrtvicxwjn,ruhwrOreii.rihjrfoteixruhwrevjrievjnrevnjjrscht
qztjxd;ruhwrohrevotrfitecnjr jrqunavjwricekrrOreii.rurtquxxrpieexjridrncq
ohrqzrfia.je,ruhwrsuyjrDnowuzrurxunsjrpusr oevrqinjrfi wjnruhwrpcxxjet;
uhwrutreirinwjnt,rOravunsjwrvoqreir.jjfraxitjrpjvohwrqj,ruhwrhiereirteon,
inrtviie,rinrwiruhzevohsreoxxrOrpowrvoq,ruhwrohrevjrqjuheoqjrhiereirtfju.
ur inwkrrOhrevotrfitecnjrOrdjeavjwruraiqfuttreirqzrnosvervuhwridrhjunru
qoxj,rutr jxxreirsjeriyjnrevjranjj.rutreirsjeroheirevjr iiw,rtirevuerO
aicxwraiqjr oevohrtvieridrevjqrpjdinjrOrtvicxwrpjrwotaiyjnjw,r voavrOrvuw
tjjhrpzrqzrsxuttroer utrjutzreirwik

 voxjrOr utrqu.ohsrevotrqunav,rqzrdinqjnrevicsvetrnjecnhohs,rOrpjsuhrei
upuejrqzrnjtixceoih:rOrwirhierqjuhrevuerOrjhejneuohjwruhzrdjunridrevjon
hcqpjn,rdinrutrevjzr jnjrhu.jw,rchunqjwr njeavjt,roerotrajneuohrOr ut
tcfjnoinreirevjq—huz,revicsvrOrvuwrpjjhruxihjkrrPceroeriaacnnjwreirqz
evicsvet,r vuerauxx,r vueriaautoih,rqcavrxjttr vuerhjajttoezrOr utrohrei
siruhwrwofrqzrvuhwtrohrpxiiw,reirueeua.rfjifxjr virvuwrhjoevjnrwihjrin
ohejhwjwrqjruhzr nihs?r vi,rutreirqj,r jnjrohhiajhe,ruhwr vitjrpunpunict
acteiqtr jnjrevjonri hrwotutejn,rpjohsrohrevjqrurei.jh,rohwjjw,ridrSiw’t
vuyohsrxjderevjq,r oevrevjrievjnrhueoihtridrevuerfuneridrevjr inxw,rei
tcavrtecfowoez,ruhwreirtcavrohvcquhraicntjt,rpcerwowrhierauxxrqjreireu.j
cfihrqjreirpjrurbcwsjridrevjonruaeoiht,rqcavrxjttruhrjmjaceoihjnridrVot
bcteoaj—evuer vjhjyjnrVjrevicsverdoerVjr icxwreu.jrevjrauctjroheirVotri h
vuhwt,ruhwrpzrhueoihuxryjhsjuhajrfchotvrevjqrutrurfjifxjrdinrhueoihux
anoqjt,rpcerevue,rohrevjrqjuheoqj,roer utrhihjridrqzrpctohjtt—evueroer ut
encjrDnowuzrqosverbcteodzroe,rpjauctjrvjr utrurwjaxunjwrjhjqzruhwrohru
teuejridr unr oevrevitjryjnzrfuneoacxunrfjifxj,ruhwroer utrxu dcxrdinrvoq
eirueeua.revjq—pcerOraicxwrhiertuzrevjrtuqjr oevrnjsunwreirqztjxdkrrEvjtj
evohstr jnjrtir unqxzrfnjttjwrcfihrqzrevicsvetruxxrevjr uzrutrOr jhe,
evuerOrnjtixyjwrOr icxwrihxzrsiruhwrfxuajrqztjxdrhjunrevjqrevuerOrqosve
iptjnyjrevjonrpunpunictrdjute,ruhwrevuerOr icxwruaerevjhrutrSiwrtvicxw
wonjae;rpcerevuerchxjttrtiqjevohsriddjnjwrevuer utrqinjrurauxxreirqjrevuh
zjerOr.hj rid,rOr icxwrhierqjwwxjr oevrevjqk

 oevrevotrnjtixceoihrOrjhejnjwrevjr iiw,ruhw,r oevruxxrfittopxjr unohjtt
uhwrtoxjhaj,rDnowuzrdixxi ohsraxitjruerqzrvjjxt,rOrqunavjwreoxxrOrauqjrei
evjrt.onetridrevjr iiwrihrevjrtowjr voavr utrhjmereirevjq,rihxzrevuerihj
ainhjnridrevjr iiwrxuzrpje jjhrqjruhwrevjqkrrVjnjrOrauxxjwrtidexzrei
Dnowuz,ruhwrtvi ohsrvoqrursnjuerenjjr voavr utrbcteruerevjrainhjnridrevj
 iiw,rOrpuwjrvoqrsireirevjrenjj,ruhwrpnohsrqjr inwrodrvjraicxwrtjjrevjnj
fxuohxzr vuerevjzr jnjrwiohskrrVjrwowrti,ruhwrauqjroqqjwouejxzrpua.rei
qj,ruhwreixwrqjrevjzrqosverpjrfxuohxzryoj jwrevjnj—evuerevjzr jnjruxx
upicerevjonrdonj,rjueohsrevjrdxjtvridrihjridrevjonrfnotihjnt,ruhwrevue
uhievjnrxuzrpichwrcfihrevjrtuhwrurxoeexjrdniqrevjq,r viqrvjrtuowrevjz
 icxwr.oxxrhjme;ruhwrevotrdonjwrevjryjnzrticxr oevohrqjkrrVjreixwrqjroe
 utrhierihjridrevjonrhueoih,rpcerihjridrevjrpjunwjwrqjhrvjrvuwreixwrqj
id,revuerauqjreirevjonraichenzrohrevjrpiuekrrOr utrdoxxjwr oevrvinninrue
evjryjnzrhuqohsridrevjr voejrpjunwjwrquh;ruhwrsiohsreirevjrenjj,rOrtu 
fxuohxzrpzrqzrsxuttrur voejrquh,r virxuzrcfihrevjrpjuavridrevjrtjur oev
votrvuhwtruhwrvotrdjjereojwr oevrdxust,rinrevohstrxo.jrnctvjt,ruhwrevue
vjr utruhrJcnifjuh,ruhwrvuwraxievjtrihk

Evjnjr utruhievjnrenjjruhwrurxoeexjrevoa.jerpjzihwroe,rupicerdodezrzunwt
hjunjnreirevjqrevuhrevjrfxuajr vjnjrOr ut,r voav,rpzrsiohsrurxoeexjr uz
upice,rOrtu rOrqosveraiqjruerchwotaiyjnjw,ruhwrevuerevjhrOrtvicxwrpj
 oevohrvuxdrurtvieridrevjq;rtirOr oevvjxwrqzrfuttoih,revicsvrOr utrohwjjw
jhnusjwreirevjrvosvjterwjsnjj;ruhwrsiohsrpua.rupicere jhezrfuajt,rOrsie
pjvohwrtiqjrpctvjt,r voavrvjxwruxxrevjr uzreoxxrOrauqjreirevjrievjnrenjj,
uhwrevjhrauqjreirurxoeexjrnotohsrsnichw,r voavrsuyjrqjrurdcxxryoj rid
evjqruerevjrwoteuhajridrupicerjosvezrzunwtk

Orvuwrhi rhierurqiqjhereirxitj,rdinrhohjejjhridrevjrwnjuwdcxr njeavjtrtue
cfihrevjrsnichw,ruxxraxitjrvcwwxjwreisjevjn,ruhwrvuwrbctertjherevjrievjn
e ireirpceavjnrevjrfiinrAvnoteouh,ruhwrpnohsrvoqrfjnvuftrxoqprpzrxoqprei
evjonrdonj,ruhwrevjzr jnjrteiifohsrwi hreircheojrevjrpuhwtruervotrdjjek
OrecnhjwreirDnowuzkrr“Hi ,rDnowuz,”rtuowrO,r“wirutrOrpowrevjjk”rrDnowuz
tuowrvjr icxwkrr“Evjh,rDnowuz,”rtuztrO,r“wirjmuaexzrutrzicrtjjrqjrwi;
duoxrohrhievohsk”rrTirOrtjerwi hrihjridrevjrqct.jetruhwrevjrdi xohs-fojaj
cfihrevjrsnichw,ruhwrDnowuzrwowrevjrxo.jrpzrvot,ruhwr oevrevjrievjn
qct.jerOreii.rqzruoqruerevjrtuyusjt,rpowwohsrvoqreirwirevjrxo.j;revjh
ut.ohsrvoqrodrvjr utrnjuwz,rvjrtuow,r“Zjtk”rr“Evjhrdonjruerevjq,”rtuowrO;
uhwruerevjrtuqjrqiqjherOrdonjwruxtik

Dnowuzreii.rvotruoqrtirqcavrpjeejnrevuhrO,revuerihrevjrtowjrevuervjrtvie
vjr.oxxjwre iridrevjq,ruhwr ichwjwrevnjjrqinj;ruhwrihrqzrtowjrOr.oxxjw
ihj,ruhwr ichwjwre ikrrEvjzr jnj,rzicrquzrpjrtcnj,rohrurwnjuwdcx
aihtejnhueoih:ruhwruxxridrevjqrevuer jnjrhiervcnerbcqfjwrcfihrevjonrdjje,
pcerwowrhieroqqjwouejxzr.hi r voavr uzreirnch,rinr voavr uzreirxii.,rdin
evjzr.hj rhierdniqr vjhajrevjonrwjtencaeoihrauqjkrrDnowuzr.jfervotrjzjt
axitjrcfihrqj,revue,rutrOrvuwrpowrvoq,rvjrqosveriptjnyjr vuerOrwow;rti,
utrtiihrutrevjrdontertvier utrquwj,rOrevnj rwi hrevjrfojaj,ruhwreii.rcf
evjrdi xohs-fojaj,ruhwrDnowuzrwowrevjrxo.j;rvjrtu rqjraia.ruhwrfnjtjhe;
vjrwowrevjrtuqjrusuohkrr“Unjrzicrnjuwz,rDnowuz?”rtuowrOkrr“Zjt,”rtuztrvjk
“Xjerdxz,revjh,”rtuztrO,r“ohrevjrhuqjridrSiw!”ruhwr oevrevuerOrdonjw
usuohruqihsrevjruqugjwr njeavjt,ruhwrtirwowrDnowuz;ruhwrutricnrfojajt
 jnjrhi rxiuwjwr oevr vuerOrauxxrt uh-tvie,rinrtquxxrfoteix-pcxxjet,r j
dichwrihxzre irwnif;rpcertirquhzr jnjr ichwjwrevuerevjzrnuhrupicerzjxxohs
uhwrtanjuqohsrxo.jrquwranjuecnjt,ruxxrpxiiwz,ruhwrqiteridrevjqrqotjnupxz
 ichwjw;r vjnjidrevnjjrqinjrdjxxrlcoa.xzrudejn,revicsvrhierlcoejrwjuwk

“Hi ,rDnowuz,”rtuztrO,rxuzohsrwi hrevjrwotavunsjwrfojajt,ruhwreu.ohsrcf
evjrqct.jer voavr utrzjerxiuwjw,r“dixxi rqj,”r voavrvjrwowr oevrursnjue
wjuxridraicnusj;rcfihr voavrOrnctvjwriceridrevjr iiwruhwrtvi jwrqztjxd,
uhwrDnowuzraxitjruerqzrdiiekrrUtrtiihrutrOrfjnajoyjwrevjzrtu rqj,rO
tvicejwrutrxicwrutrOraicxw,ruhwrpuwjrDnowuzrwirtireii,ruhwrnchhohsrut
duterutrOraicxw,r voav,rpzrevjr uz,r utrhieryjnzrdute,rpjohsrxiuwjwr oev
unqtrutrOr ut,rOrquwjrwonjaexzrei unwtrevjrfiinryoaeoq,r vir ut,rutrO
tuow,rxzohsrcfihrevjrpjuavrinrtvinj,rpje jjhrevjrfxuajr vjnjrevjzrtueruhw
evjrtjukrrEvjre irpceavjntr vir jnjrbctersiohsreir in.r oevrvoqrvuwrxjde
voqruerevjrtcnfnotjridricnrdonterdonj,ruhwrdxjwrohrurejnnopxjrdnosverei
evjrtjutowj,ruhwrvuwrbcqfjwroheirurauhij,ruhwrevnjjrqinjridrevjrnjterquwj
evjrtuqjr uzkrrOrecnhjwreirDnowuz,ruhwrpuwjrvoqrtejfrdin unwtruhwrdonjrue
evjq;rvjrchwjnteiiwrqjroqqjwouejxz,ruhwrnchhohsrupicerdinezrzunwt,reirpj
hjunjnrevjq,rvjrtvieruerevjq;ruhwrOrevicsvervjrvuwr.oxxjwrevjqruxx,rdinrO
tu revjqruxxrduxxridrurvjufroheirevjrpiue,revicsvrOrtu re iridrevjqrcf
usuohrlcoa.xz;rvi jyjn,rvjr.oxxjwre iridrevjq,ruhwr ichwjwrevjrevonw,rti
evuervjrxuzrwi hrohrevjrpieeiqridrevjrpiuerutrodrvjrvuwrpjjhrwjuwk

 voxjrqzrquhrDnowuzrdonjwruerevjq,rOrfcxxjwricerqzr.hodjruhwracerevj
dxustrevuerpichwrevjrfiinryoaeoq;ruhwrxiitohsrvotrvuhwtruhwrdjje,rO
xodejwrvoqrcf,ruhwrut.jwrvoqrohrevjrFinecscjtjreihscjr vuervjr utkrrVj
uht jnjwrohrXueoh,rAvnoteouhct;rpcer utrtir ju.ruhwrduoherevuervjraicxw
taunajrteuhwrinrtfju.krrOreii.rqzrpieexjriceridrqzrfia.jeruhwrsuyjroe
voq,rqu.ohsrtoshtrevuervjrtvicxwrwnoh.,r voavrvjrwow;ruhwrOrsuyjrvoqru
fojajridrpnjuw,r voavrvjruejkrrEvjhrOrut.jwrvoqr vueraichenzquhrvjr ut:
uhwrvjrtuow,rJtfushoixj;ruhwrpjohsrurxoeexjrnjaiyjnjw,rxjerqjr.hi ,rpz
uxxrevjrtoshtrvjraicxwrfittopxzrqu.j,rvi rqcavrvjr utrohrqzrwjperdinrvot
wjxoyjnuhajkrr“Tjoshoin,”rtuowrO,r oevrutrqcavrTfuhotvrutrOraicxwrqu.j
cf,r“ jr oxxreux.rudejn unwt,rpcer jrqcterdosverhi :rodrzicrvuyjruhz
tenjhsevrxjde,reu.jrevotrfoteixruhwrt inw,ruhwrxuzrupicerzick”rrVjreii.
evjqryjnzrevuh.dcxxz;ruhwrhirtiihjnrvuwrvjrevjrunqtrohrvotrvuhwt,rpce,rut
odrevjzrvuwrfcerhj ryosicnroheirvoq,rvjrdxj rcfihrvotrqcnwjnjntrxo.jru
dcnz,ruhwrvuwracere iridrevjqrohrfojajtrohruhrohteuhe;rdinrevjrencevrot,
utrevjr vixjr utrurtcnfnotjreirevjq,rtirevjrfiinranjuecnjtr jnjrtirqcav
dnosvejhjwr oevrevjrhiotjridricnrfojajtrevuerevjzrdjxxrwi hrdinrqjnj
uqugjqjheruhwrdjun,ruhwrvuwrhirqinjrfi jnreirueejqferevjonri hrjtaufj
evuhrevjonrdxjtvrvuwreirnjtotericnrtvie;ruhwrevuer utrevjrautjridrevitj
doyjrevuerDnowuzrtvieruerohrevjrpiue;rdinrutrevnjjridrevjqrdjxxr oevrevj
vcnerevjzrnjajoyjw,rtirevjrievjnre irdjxxr oevrevjrdnosvek

Or.jferqzrfojajrohrqzrvuhwrteoxxr oevicerdonohs,rpjohsr oxxohsreir.jjfrqz
avunsjrnjuwz,rpjauctjrOrvuwrsoyjhrevjrTfuhounwrqzrfoteixruhwrt inw:rtirO
auxxjwreirDnowuz,ruhwrpuwjrvoqrnchrcfreirevjrenjjrdniqr vjhajr jrdonte
donjw,ruhwrdjeavrevjrunqtr voavrxuzrevjnjrevuervuwrpjjhrwotavunsjw,r voav
vjrwowr oevrsnjuert odehjtt;ruhwrevjhrsoyohsrvoqrqzrqct.je,rOrtuerwi h
qztjxdreirxiuwruxxrevjrnjterusuoh,ruhwrpuwjrevjqraiqjreirqjr vjhrevjz
 uhejwkrr voxjrOr utrxiuwohsrevjtjrfojajt,revjnjrvuffjhjwrurdojnaj
jhsusjqjherpje jjhrevjrTfuhounwruhwrihjridrevjrtuyusjt,r virquwjruervoq
 oevrihjridrevjonrsnjuer iiwjhrt inwt,revjr jufihrevuer utreirvuyjr.oxxjw
voqrpjdinj,rodrOrvuwrhierfnjyjhejwroekrrEvjrTfuhounw,r vir utrutrpixwruhw
pnuyjrutraicxwrpjroqusohjw,revicsvr ju.,rvuwrdicsverevjrOhwouhrursiiw
 voxj,ruhwrvuwracere irsnjuer ichwtrihrvotrvjuw;rpcerevjrtuyusjrpjohsru
teice,rxctezrdjxxi ,raxitohsrohr oevrvoq,rvuwrevni hrvoqrwi h,rpjohs
duohe,ruhwr utr nohsohsrqzrt inwriceridrvotrvuhw;r vjhrevjrTfuhounw,
evicsvrchwjnqite,r otjxzrlcoeeohsrevjrt inw,rwnj revjrfoteixrdniqrvot
sonwxj,rtvierevjrtuyusjrevnicsvrevjrpiwz,ruhwr.oxxjwrvoqrcfihrevjrtfie,
pjdinjrO,r vir utrnchhohsreirvjxfrvoq,raicxwraiqjrhjunrvoqk

Dnowuz,rpjohsrhi rxjdereirvotrxopjnez,rfcntcjwrevjrdxzohsr njeavjt,r oev
hir jufihrohrvotrvuhwrpcervotrvueavje:ruhwr oevrevuervjrwjtfueavjwrevitj
evnjjr virutrOrtuowrpjdinj,r jnjr ichwjwruerdonte,ruhwrduxxjh,ruhwruxx
evjrnjtervjraicxwraiqjrcfr oev:ruhwrevjrTfuhounwraiqohsreirqjrdinrursch,
Orsuyjrvoqrihjridrevjrdi xohs-fojajt,r oevr voavrvjrfcntcjwre iridrevj
tuyusjt,ruhwr ichwjwrevjqrpiev;rpcerutrvjr utrhierupxjreirnch,revjzrpiev
sierdniqrvoqroheirevjr iiw,r vjnjrDnowuzrfcntcjwrevjq,ruhwr.oxxjwrihjrid
evjq,rpcerevjrievjnr utreiirhoqpxjrdinrvoq;ruhwrevicsvrvjr utr ichwjw,
zjervuwrfxchsjwrvoqtjxdroheirevjrtju,ruhwrt uqr oevruxxrvotrqosveriddrei
evitjre ir vir jnjrxjderohrevjrauhij;r voavrevnjjrohrevjrauhij,r oevrihj
 ichwjw,revuer jr.hj rhier vjevjnrvjrwojwrinrhi,r jnjruxxrevuerjtaufjw
icnrvuhwtridrihj-uhw-e jhezkrrEvjruaaicheridrevjr vixjrotrutrdixxi t:
Evnjjr.oxxjwruericnrdontertvierdniqrevjrenjj;re ir.oxxjwruerevjrhjme
tvie;re ir.oxxjwrpzrDnowuzrohrevjrpiue;re ir.oxxjwrpzrDnowuzridrevitjrue
donter ichwjw;rihjr.oxxjwrpzrDnowuzrohrevjr iiw;revnjjr.oxxjwrpzrevj
Tfuhounw;rdicnr.oxxjw,rpjohsrdichwrwniffjwrvjnjruhwrevjnj,ridrevjr ichwt,
inr.oxxjwrpzrDnowuzrohrvotravutjridrevjq;rdicnrjtaufjwrohrevjrpiue,
 vjnjidrihjr ichwjw,rodrhierwjuw—e jhez-ihjrohruxxk

Evitjrevuer jnjrohrevjrauhijr in.jwrvunwreirsjericeridrsch-tvie,ruhw
evicsvrDnowuzrquwjre irinrevnjjrtvietruerevjq,rOrwowrhierdohwrevuervjrvoe
uhzridrevjqkrrDnowuzr icxwrduohrvuyjrvuwrqjreu.jrihjridrevjonrauhijt,ruhw
fcntcjrevjq;ruhwrohwjjwrOr utryjnzruhmoictrupicerevjonrjtaufj,rxjte,
aunnzohsrevjrhj trviqjreirevjonrfjifxj,revjzrtvicxwraiqjrpua.rfjnvuft
 oevre irinrevnjjrvchwnjwridrevjrauhijtruhwrwjyicnrctrpzrqjnjrqcxeoecwj;
tirOraihtjhejwreirfcntcjrevjqrpzrtju,ruhwrnchhohsreirihjridrevjonrauhijt,
OrbcqfjwrohruhwrpuwjrDnowuzrdixxi rqj:rpcer vjhrOr utrohrevjrauhijrOr ut
tcnfnotjwreirdohwruhievjnrfiinranjuecnjrxojrevjnj,rpichwrvuhwruhwrdiie,
utrevjrTfuhounwr ut,rdinrevjrtxucsvejn,ruhwruxqiterwjuwr oevrdjun,rhie
.hi ohsr vuer utrevjrqueejn;rdinrvjrvuwrhierpjjhrupxjreirxii.rcfriyjnrevj
towjridrevjrpiue,rvjr utreojwrtirvunwrhja.ruhwrvjjxt,ruhwrvuwrpjjhreojw
tirxihsrevuervjrvuwrnjuxxzrpcerxoeexjrxodjrohrvoqk

Oroqqjwouejxzracerevjre otejwrdxustrinrnctvjtr voavrevjzrvuwrpichwrvoq
 oev,ruhwr icxwrvuyjrvjxfjwrvoqrcf;rpcervjraicxwrhierteuhwrinrtfju.,rpce
sniuhjwrqiterfoejictxz,rpjxojyohs,roertjjqt,rteoxx,revuervjr utrihxz
chpichwrohrinwjnreirpjr.oxxjwkrr vjhrDnowuzrauqjreirvoqrOrpuwjrvoqrtfju.
eirvoq,ruhwrejxxrvoqridrvotrwjxoyjnuhaj;ruhwrfcxxohsricerqzrpieexj,rquwj
voqrsoyjrevjrfiinr njeavrurwnuq,r voav,r oevrevjrhj tridrvotrpjohs
wjxoyjnjw,rnjyoyjwrvoq,ruhwrvjrtuercfrohrevjrpiuekrrPcer vjhrDnowuzrauqj
eirvjunrvoqrtfju.,ruhwrxii.rohrvotrduaj,roer icxwrvuyjrqiyjwruhzrihjrei
ejuntreirvuyjrtjjhrvi rDnowuzr.ottjwrvoq,rjqpnuajwrvoq,rvcssjwrvoq,
anojw,rxucsvjw,rvuxxiijw,rbcqfjwrupice,rwuhajw,rtuhs;revjhranojwrusuoh,
 nchsrvotrvuhwt,rpjuervotri hrduajruhwrvjuw;ruhwrevjhrtuhsruhwrbcqfjw
upicerusuohrxo.jrurwotenuaejwranjuecnjkrrOer utrursiiwr voxjrpjdinjrO
aicxwrqu.jrvoqrtfju.reirqjrinrejxxrqjr vuer utrevjrqueejn;rpcer vjhrvj
auqjrurxoeexjreirvoqtjxdrvjreixwrqjrevueroer utrvotrduevjnk

Oerotrhierjutzrdinrqjreirjmfnjttrvi roerqiyjwrqjreirtjjr vuerjateutzruhw
doxouxruddjaeoihrvuwr in.jwrohrevotrfiinrtuyusjruerevjrtosveridrvot
duevjn,ruhwridrvotrpjohsrwjxoyjnjwrdniqrwjuev;rhinrohwjjwrauhrOrwjtanopj
vuxdrevjrjmenuyusuhajtridrvotruddjaeoihrudejnrevot:rdinrvjr jheroheirevj
piueruhwriceridrevjrpiuerursnjuerquhzreoqjt:r vjhrvjr jherohreirvoqrvj
 icxwrtoerwi hrpzrvoq,rifjhrvotrpnjute,ruhwrvixwrvotrduevjn’trvjuwraxitj
eirvotrpitiqrdinrquhzrqohcejtreisjevjn,reirhicnotvroe;revjhrvjreii.rvot
unqtruhwruh.xjt,r voavr jnjrhcqpjwruhwrteoddr oevrevjrpohwohs,ruhwravudjw
uhwrncppjwrevjqr oevrvotrvuhwt;ruhwrO,rfjnajoyohsr vuerevjrautjr ut,rsuyj
voqrtiqjrncqriceridrqzrpieexjreirncprevjqr oev,r voavrwowrevjqrursnjue
wjuxridrsiiwk

Evotrudduonrfceruhrjhwreiricnrfcntcoeridrevjrauhijr oevrevjrievjn
tuyusjt,r vir jnjrhi ruxqitericeridrtosve;ruhwroer utrvuffzrdinrctrevue
 jrwowrhie,rdinroerpxj rtirvunwr oevohre irvicntrudejn,ruhwrpjdinjrevjz
aicxwrpjrsierurlcunejnridrevjonr uz,ruhwraiheohcjwrpxi ohsrtirvunwruxx
hosve,ruhwrevuerdniqrevjrhinev- jte,r voavr utrusuohterevjq,revuerOraicxw
hiertcffitjrevjonrpiueraicxwrxoyj,rinrevuerevjzrjyjnrnjuavjwrevjonri h
aiutek

PcereirnjecnhreirDnowuz;rvjr utrtirpctzrupicervotrduevjnrevuerOraicxwrhie
dohwrohrqzrvjunereireu.jrvoqriddrdinrtiqjreoqj;rpcerudejnrOrevicsvervj
aicxwrxjuyjrvoqrurxoeexj,rOrauxxjwrvoqreirqj,ruhwrvjrauqjrbcqfohsruhw
xucsvohs,ruhwrfxjutjwreirevjrvosvjterjmenjqj:revjhrOrut.jwrvoqrodrvjrvuw
soyjhrvotrduevjnruhzrpnjuwkrrVjrtvii.rvotrvjuw,ruhwrtuow,r“Hihj;rcsxzrwis
jueruxxrcfrtjxdk”rrOrevjhrsuyjrvoqrurau.jridrpnjuwriceridrurxoeexjrficav
Oraunnojwrihrfcnfitj;rOruxtirsuyjrvoqrurwnuqrdinrvoqtjxd;rpcervjr icxw
hiereutejroe,rpceraunnojwroereirvotrduevjnkrrOrvuwrohrqzrfia.jere irin
evnjjrpchavjtridrnuotoht,rtirOrsuyjrvoqrurvuhwdcxridrevjqrdinrvotrduevjnk
VjrvuwrhirtiihjnrsoyjhrvotrduevjnrevjtjrnuotohtrpcerOrtu rvoqraiqjricerid
evjrpiue,ruhwrnchru uzrutrodrvjrvuwrpjjhrpj oeavjw,rdinrvjr utrevj
t odejterdjxxi rihrvotrdjjerevuerjyjnrOrtu :rOrtuz,rvjrnuhruertcavrurnuej
evuervjr utriceridrtosve,rutroer jnj,rohruhrohteuhe;ruhwrevicsvrOrauxxjw,
uhwrvuxxiijwricereiirudejnrvoq,roer utruxxrihj—u uzrvjr jhe;ruhwrohru
lcunejnridruhrvicnrOrtu rvoqraiqjrpua.rusuoh,revicsvrhiertirduterutrvj
 jhe;ruhwrutrvjrauqjrhjunjnrOrdichwrvotrfuajrtxua.jn,rpjauctjrvjrvuw
tiqjevohsrohrvotrvuhwkrr vjhrvjrauqjrcfreirqjrOrdichwrvjrvuwrpjjhrlcoej
viqjrdinruhrjunevjhrbcsrinrfie,reirpnohsrvotrduevjnrtiqjrdnjtvr uejn,ruhw
evuervjrvuwrsiere irqinjrau.jtrinrxiuyjtridrpnjuw:revjrpnjuwrvjrsuyjrqj,
pcerevjr uejnrvjraunnojwreirvotrduevjn;rvi jyjn,rutrOr utryjnzrevontez
eii,rOreii.rurxoeexjridroekrrEvjr uejnrnjyoyjwrvotrduevjnrqinjrevuhruxx
evjrncqrinrtfonoetrOrvuwrsoyjhrvoq,rdinrvjr utrduoheohsr oevrevontek

 vjhrvotrduevjnrvuwrwnch.,rOrauxxjwreirvoqreir.hi rodrevjnjr utruhzr uejn
xjdekrrVjrtuow,r“Zjt”;ruhwrOrpuwjrvoqrsoyjroereirevjrfiinrTfuhounw,r vi
 utrohrutrqcavr uheridroerutrvotrduevjn;ruhwrOrtjherihjridrevjrau.jtrevue
DnowuzrpnicsvereirevjrTfuhounwreii,r vir utrohwjjwryjnzr ju.,ruhwr ut
njfitohsrvoqtjxdrcfihrursnjjhrfxuajrchwjnrevjrtvuwjridrurenjj;ruhwr vitj
xoqptr jnjruxtiryjnzrteodd,ruhwryjnzrqcavrt jxxjwr oevrevjrncwjrpuhwusj
vjrvuwrpjjhreojwr oevkrr vjhrOrtu revuercfihrDnowuz’traiqohsreirvoqr oev
evjr uejnrvjrtuercfruhwrwnuh.,ruhwreii.revjrpnjuwruhwrpjsuhreirjue,rO
 jhereirvoqruhwrsuyjrvoqrurvuhwdcxridrnuotohtkrrVjrxii.jwrcfrohrqzrduaj
 oevruxxrevjrei.jhtridrsnueoecwjruhwrevuh.dcxhjttrevueraicxwruffjunroh
uhzraichejhuhaj;rpcer utrtir ju.,rhie oevteuhwohsrvjrvuwrtirjmjnejw
voqtjxdrohrevjrdosve,revuervjraicxwrhierteuhwrcfrcfihrvotrdjje—vjrenojw
eirwiroere irinrevnjjreoqjt,rpcer utrnjuxxzrhierupxj,rvotruh.xjtr jnjrti
t jxxjwruhwrtirfuohdcxreirvoq;rtirOrpuwjrvoqrtoerteoxx,ruhwrauctjwrDnowuz
eirncprvotruh.xjt,ruhwrpuevjrevjqr oevrncq,rutrvjrvuwrwihjrvotrduevjn’tk

Oriptjnyjwrevjrfiinruddjaeoihuejranjuecnj,rjyjnzre irqohcejt,rinrfjnvuft
xjtt,ruxxrevjr voxjrvjr utrvjnj,recnhrvotrvjuwrupicereirtjjrodrvotrduevjn
 utrohrevjrtuqjrfxuajruhwrfitecnjrutrvjrxjdervoqrtoeeohs;ruhwruerxutervj
dichwrvjr utrhiereirpjrtjjh;ruer voavrvjrteunejwrcf,ruhw,r oevice
tfju.ohsrur inw,rdxj r oevrevuert odehjttreirvoqrevuerihjraicxwrtaunaj
fjnajoyjrvotrdjjereireicavrevjrsnichwrutrvjr jhe;rpcer vjhrvjrauqj,rvj
ihxzrdichwrvjrvuwrxuowrvoqtjxdrwi hreirjutjrvotrxoqpt,rtirDnowuzrauqj
pua.reirqjrfnjtjhexz;ruhwrevjhrOrtfi.jreirevjrTfuhounwreirxjerDnowuzrvjxf
voqrcfrodrvjraicxw,ruhwrxjuwrvoqreirevjrpiue,ruhwrevjhrvjrtvicxwraunnz
voqreiricnrw jxxohs,r vjnjrOr icxwreu.jraunjridrvoqkrrPcerDnowuz,ru
xctez,rtenihsrdjxxi ,reii.revjrTfuhounwrcfihrvotrpua.,ruhwraunnojwrvoq
u uzreirevjrpiue,ruhwrtjervoqrwi hrtidexzrcfihrevjrtowjrinrschhjxridrevj
auhij,r oevrvotrdjjerohrevjrohtowjridroe;ruhwrevjhrxodeohsrvoqrlcoejroh,
vjrtjervoqraxitjreirvotrduevjn;ruhwrfnjtjhexzrtejffohsricerusuoh,
xuchavjwrevjrpiueridd,ruhwrfuwwxjwroeruxihsrevjrtvinjrdutejnrevuhrOraicxw
 ux.,revicsvrevjr ohwrpxj rfnjeezrvunwreii;rtirvjrpnicsverevjqrpievrtudj
oheiricnranjj.,ruhwrxjuyohsrevjqrohrevjrpiue,rnuhru uzreirdjeavrevjrievjn
auhijkrrUtrvjrfuttjwrqjrOrtfi.jreirvoq,ruhwrut.jwrvoqr voevjnrvjr jhek
Vjreixwrqj,r“Sirdjeavrqinjrpiue;”rtiru uzrvjr jherxo.jrevjr ohw,rdinrtcnj
hjyjnrquhrinrvintjrnuhrxo.jrvoq;ruhwrvjrvuwrevjrievjnrauhijrohrevjranjj.
uxqiterutrtiihrutrOrsiereiroerpzrxuhw;rtirvjr udejwrqjriyjn,ruhwrevjh
 jhereirvjxfricnrhj rscjtetriceridrevjrpiue,r voavrvjrwow;rpcerevjzr jnj
hjoevjnridrevjqrupxjreir ux.;rtirevuerfiinrDnowuzr.hj rhier vuereirwik

Eirnjqjwzrevot,rOr jhereir in.rohrqzrevicsve,ruhwrauxxohsreirDnowuzrei
powrevjqrtoerwi hrihrevjrpuh.r voxjrvjrauqjreirqj,rOrtiihrquwjrur.ohwrid
vuhw-punni reirxuzrevjqrih,ruhwrDnowuzruhwrOraunnojwrevjqrpievrcf
eisjevjnrcfihroerpje jjhrctk

Pcer vjhr jrsierevjqreirevjricetowjridricnr uxx,rinrdineodoaueoih,r j
 jnjruerur intjrxittrevuhrpjdinj,rdinroer utroqfittopxjreirsjerevjqriyjn,
uhwrOr utrnjtixyjwrhiereirpnju.roerwi h;rtirOrtjereir in.rusuoh,ruhw
DnowuzruhwrO,rohrupicere irvicnt’reoqj,rquwjruryjnzrvuhwtiqjrejhe,
aiyjnjwr oevrixwrtuoxt,ruhwrupiyjrevuer oevrpicsvtridrenjjt,rpjohsrohrevj
tfuajr oevicericnrice unwrdjhajruhwrpje jjhrevueruhwrevjrsniyjridrzichs
 iiwr voavrOrvuwrfxuhejw;ruhwrvjnjr jrquwjrevjqre irpjwtridrtcavrevohst
utrOrvuw—yogkridrsiiwrnoaj-tenu ,r oevrpxuh.jetrxuowrcfihroereirxojrih,
uhwruhievjnreiraiyjnrevjq,rihrjuavrpjwk

Qzrotxuhwr utrhi rfjifxjw,ruhwrOrevicsverqztjxdryjnzrnoavrohrtcpbjaet;
uhwroer utrurqjnnzrnjdxjaeoih,r voavrOrdnjlcjhexzrquwj,rvi rxo.jrur.ohsrO
xii.jwkrrDonteridruxx,revjr vixjraichenzr utrqzri hrfnifjnez,rtirevuerO
vuwruhrchwicpejwrnosveridrwiqohoihkrrTjaihwxz,rqzrfjifxjr jnjrfjndjaexz
tcpbjaejw—Or utruptixcejxzrxinwruhwrxu soyjn—evjzruxxri jwrevjonrxoyjtrei
qj,ruhwr jnjrnjuwzreirxuzrwi hrevjonrxoyjt,rodrevjnjrvuwrpjjhriaautoih
dinroe,rdinrqjkrrOer utrnjqun.upxj,reii,rOrvuwrpcerevnjjrtcpbjaet,ruhw
evjzr jnjridrevnjjrwoddjnjhernjxosoiht—qzrquhrDnowuzr utrurFniejteuhe,
votrduevjnr utrurFusuhruhwrurauhhopux,ruhwrevjrTfuhounwr utrurFufotek
Vi jyjn,rOruxxi jwrxopjnezridraihtaojhajrevnicsvicerqzrwiqohoihtkrrPce
evotrotrpzrevjr uzk

UtrtiihrutrOrvuwrtjacnjwrqzre ir ju.,rnjtacjwrfnotihjnt,ruhwrsoyjhrevjq
tvjxejn,ruhwrurfxuajreirnjterevjqrcfih,rOrpjsuhreirevoh.ridrqu.ohsrtiqj
fniyotoihrdinrevjq;ruhwrevjrdonterevohsrOrwow,rOrinwjnjwrDnowuzreireu.jru
zjunxohsrsiue,rpje omerur.owruhwrursiue,riceridrqzrfuneoacxunrdxia.,rei
pjr.oxxjw;r vjhrOraceriddrevjrvohwjn-lcunejn,ruhwraviffohsroeroheirtquxx
fojajt,rOrtjerDnowuzreir in.reirpioxohsruhwrtej ohs,ruhwrquwjrevjqruryjnz
siiwrwotv,rOruttcnjrzic,ridrdxjtvruhwrpniev;ruhwrutrOraii.jwroer oevice
wiint,rdinrOrquwjrhirdonjr oevohrqzrohhjnr uxx,rtirOraunnojwroeruxxrohei
evjrhj rejhe,ruhwrvuyohsrtjerureupxjrevjnjrdinrevjq,rOrtuerwi h,ruhwruej
qzri hrwohhjnruxtir oevrevjq,ruhw,rutr jxxrutrOraicxw,ravjjnjwrevjqruhw
jhaicnusjwrevjqkrrDnowuzr utrqzrohejnfnjejn,rjtfjaouxxzreirvotrduevjn,
uhw,rohwjjw,reirevjrTfuhounwreii;rdinrevjrTfuhounwrtfi.jrevjrxuhscusjrid
evjrtuyusjtrfnjeezr jxxk

Udejnr jrvuwrwohjw,rinrnuevjnrtcffjw,rOrinwjnjwrDnowuzreireu.jrihjridrevj
auhijt,ruhwrsiruhwrdjeavricnrqct.jetruhwrievjnrdonjunqt,r voav,rdinr uhe
idreoqj,r jrvuwrxjdercfihrevjrfxuajridrpueexj;ruhwrevjrhjmerwuzrOrinwjnjw
voqreirsiruhwrpcnzrevjrwjuwrpiwojtridrevjrtuyusjt,r voavrxuzrifjhreirevj
tch,ruhwr icxwrfnjtjhexzrpjriddjhtoyjkrrOruxtirinwjnjwrvoqreirpcnzrevj
vinnowrnjquohtridrevjonrpunpunictrdjute,r voavrOraicxwrhierevoh.ridrwiohs
qztjxd;rhuz,rOraicxwrhierpjunreirtjjrevjqrodrOr jherevuer uz;ruxxr voav
vjrfchaecuxxzrfjndinqjw,ruhwrjdduajwrevjryjnzruffjunuhajridrevjrtuyusjt
pjohsrevjnj;rtirevuer vjhrOr jherusuoh,rOraicxwrtaunajr.hi r vjnjroer ut,
ievjn otjrevuhrpzrevjrainhjnridrevjr iiwrfioheohsreirevjrfxuajk

Orevjhrpjsuhreirjhejnroheirurxoeexjraihyjntueoihr oevrqzre irhj 
tcpbjaet;ruhw,rdonte,rOrtjerDnowuzreirohlconjridrvotrduevjnr vuervj
evicsveridrevjrjtaufjridrevjrtuyusjtrohrevuerauhij,ruhwr vjevjnr jrqosve
jmfjaerurnjecnhridrevjq,r oevrurfi jnreiirsnjuerdinrctreirnjtotekrrVot
donterifohoihr ut,revuerevjrtuyusjtrohrevjrpiuerhjyjnraicxwrxoyjricerevj
teinqr voavrpxj revuerhosverevjzr jheridd,rpcerqcteridrhjajttoezrpj
wni hjw,rinrwnoyjhrticevreirevitjrievjnrtvinjt,r vjnjrevjzr jnjrutrtcnj
eirpjrwjyicnjwrutrevjzr jnjreirpjrwni hjwrodrevjzr jnjrauteru uz;rpce,rut
eir vuerevjzr icxwrwirodrevjzrauqjrtudjrihrtvinj,rvjrtuowrvjr.hj rhie;
pceroer utrvotrifohoihrevuerevjzr jnjrtirwnjuwdcxxzrdnosvejhjwr oevrevj
quhhjnridrevjonrpjohsrueeua.jw,revjrhiotj,ruhwrevjrdonj,revuervjrpjxojyjw
evjzr icxwrejxxrevjrfjifxjrevjzr jnjruxxr.oxxjwrpzrevchwjnruhwrxosvehohs,
hierpzrevjrvuhwridrquh;ruhwrevuerevjre ir voavruffjunjw—yogkrDnowuzruhw
O— jnjre irvjuyjhxzrtfonoet,rinrdcnojt,raiqjrwi hreirwjtenizrevjq,ruhw
hierqjhr oevr jufihtkrrEvot,rvjrtuow,rvjr.hj ;rpjauctjrvjrvjunwrevjqruxx
anzricerti,rohrevjonrxuhscusj,rihjreiruhievjn;rdinroer utroqfittopxjrdin
evjqreiraihajoyjrevuerurquhraicxwrwunerdonj,ruhwrtfju.revchwjn,ruhwr.oxx
uerurwoteuhaj,r oevicerxodeohsrcfrevjrvuhw,rutr utrwihjrhi :ruhwrevotrixw
tuyusjr utrohrevjrnosve;rdin,rutrOrchwjnteiiwrtohaj,rpzrievjnrvuhwt,revj
tuyusjtrhjyjnrueejqfejwreirsiriyjnreirevjrotxuhwrudejn unwt,revjzr jnjrti
ejnnodojwr oevrevjruaaichetrsoyjhrpzrevitjrdicnrqjhr(dinroertjjqtrevjz
wowrjtaufjrevjrtju),revuerevjzrpjxojyjwr vijyjnr jhereirevuerjhavuhejw
otxuhwr icxwrpjrwjtenizjwr oevrdonjrdniqrevjrsiwtkrrEvot,rvi jyjn,rOr.hj 
hie;ruhwrevjnjdinjr utrchwjnraiheohcuxruffnjvjhtoihtrdinrursiiwr voxj,
uhwr.jferux uztrcfihrqzrscunw,r oevruxxrqzrunqz:rdin,rutrevjnjr jnjrhi 
dicnridrct,rOr icxwrvuyjryjhecnjwrcfihrurvchwnjwridrevjq,rduonxzrohrevj
ifjhrdojxw,rueruhzreoqjk




AVUFEJNrMYOO—YOTOErIDrQCEOHJJNT


Ohrurxoeexjreoqj,rvi jyjn,rhirqinjrauhijtruffjunohs,revjrdjunridrevjon
aiqohsr injridd;ruhwrOrpjsuhreireu.jrqzrdinqjnrevicsvetridruryizusjrei
evjrquohroheiraihtowjnueoih;rpjohsrxo.j otjruttcnjwrpzrDnowuz’trduevjn
evuerOrqosverwjfjhwrcfihrsiiwrctusjrdniqrevjonrhueoih,rihrvotruaaiche,rod
Or icxwrsikrrPcerqzrevicsvetr jnjrurxoeexjrtctfjhwjwr vjhrOrvuwrurtjnoict
wotaicntjr oevrevjrTfuhounw,ruhwr vjhrOrchwjnteiiwrevuerevjnjr jnj
tomejjhrqinjridrvotraichenzqjhruhwrFinecscjtj,r virvuyohsrpjjhrauteru uz
uhwrquwjrevjonrjtaufjreirevuertowj,rxoyjwrevjnjruerfjuaj,rohwjjw,r oev
evjrtuyusjt,rpcer jnjryjnzrtinjrfcereiroerdinrhjajttunojt,ruhw,rohwjjw,
dinrxodjkrrOrut.jwrvoqruxxrevjrfuneoacxuntridrevjonryizusj,ruhwrdichw
evjzr jnjrurTfuhotvrtvof,rpichwrdniqrevjrNoirwjrxurFxueureirevjrVuyuhhu,
pjohsrwonjaejwreirxjuyjrevjonrxiuwohsrevjnj,r voavr utravojdxzrvowjtruhw
toxyjn,ruhwreirpnohsrpua.r vuerJcnifjuhrsiiwtrevjzraicxwrqjjer oevrevjnj;
evuerevjzrvuwrdoyjrFinecscjtjrtjuqjhrihrpiunw,r viqrevjzreii.ricerid
uhievjnr nja.;revuerdoyjridrevjonri hrqjhr jnjrwni hjwr vjhrdonterevj
tvofr utrxite,ruhwrevuerevjtjrjtaufjwrevnicsvrohdohoejrwuhsjntruhw
vugunwt,ruhwrunnoyjw,ruxqiterteunyjw,rihrevjrauhhopuxraiute,r vjnjrevjz
jmfjaejwreirvuyjrpjjhrwjyicnjwrjyjnzrqiqjhekrrVjreixwrqjrevjzrvuwrtiqj
unqtr oevrevjq,rpcerevjzr jnjrfjndjaexzrctjxjtt,rdinrevuerevjzrvuw
hjoevjnrfi wjnrhinrpuxx,revjr utvohsridrevjrtjurvuyohsrtfioxjwruxxrevjon
fi wjnrpcerurxoeexj,r voavrevjzrctjwruerevjonrdonterxuhwohsreirfniyowj
evjqtjxyjtr oevrtiqjrdiiwk

Orut.jwrvoqr vuervjrevicsver icxwrpjaiqjridrevjqrevjnj,ruhwrodrevjzrvuw
dinqjwruhzrwjtoshridrqu.ohsrevjonrjtaufjkrrVjrtuowrevjzrvuwrquhz
aihtcxeueoihtrupiceroe;rpcerevuervuyohsrhjoevjnryjttjxrhinreiixtreirpcoxw
ihj,rhinrfniyotoihtridruhzr.ohw,revjonraichaoxtrux uztrjhwjwrohrejuntruhw
wjtfuonkrrOrut.jwrvoqrvi rvjrevicsverevjzr icxwrnjajoyjrurfnifituxrdniq
qj,r voavrqosverejhwrei unwtruhrjtaufj;ruhwr vjevjn,rodrevjzr jnjruxx
vjnj,roerqosverhierpjrwihjkrrOreixwrvoqr oevrdnjjwiq,rOrdjunjwrqitexz
evjonrenjuavjnzruhwroxx-ctusjridrqj,rodrOrfcerqzrxodjrohrevjonrvuhwt;rdin
evuersnueoecwjr utrhirohvjnjheryonecjrohrevjrhuecnjridrquh,rhinrwowrqjh
ux uztrtlcunjrevjonrwjuxohstrpzrevjripxosueoihtrevjzrvuwrnjajoyjwrtirqcav
utrevjzrwowrpzrevjruwyuheusjtrevjzrjmfjaejwkrrOreixwrvoqroer icxwrpjryjnz
vunwrevuerOrtvicxwrpjrquwjrevjrohtencqjheridrevjonrwjxoyjnuhaj,ruhwrevue
evjzrtvicxwrudejn unwtrqu.jrqjrevjonrfnotihjnrohrHj rTfuoh,r vjnjruh
Jhsxotvquhr utrajneuohreirpjrquwjrurtuanodoaj,r vuerhjajttoezrinr vue
uaaowjhertijyjnrpnicsvervoqrevoevjn;ruhwrevuerOrvuwrnuevjnrpjrwjxoyjnjw
cfreirevjrtuyusjt,ruhwrpjrwjyicnjwruxoyj,revuhrduxxroheirevjrqjnaoxjtt
axu tridrevjrfnojtet,ruhwrpjraunnojwroheirevjrOhlcotoeoihkrrOruwwjwrevue,
ievjn otj,rOr utrfjntcuwjw,rodrevjzr jnjruxxrvjnj,r jrqosve,r oevrtirquhz
vuhwt,rpcoxwrurpunlcjrxunsjrjhicsvreiraunnzrctruxxru uz,rjoevjnreirevj
Pnugoxtrticev unw,rinreirevjrotxuhwtrinrTfuhotvraiuterhinev unw;rpcerevue
od,rohrnjlcoeux,revjzrtvicxw,r vjhrOrvuwrfcer jufihtroheirevjonrvuhwt,
aunnzrqjrpzrdinajruqihsrevjonri hrfjifxj,rOrqosverpjroxx-ctjwrdinrqz
.ohwhjttreirevjq,ruhwrqu.jrqzrautjr intjrevuhroer utrpjdinjk

Vjruht jnjw,r oevrursnjuerwjuxridrauhwicnruhwrohsjhcicthjtt,revuerevjon
aihwoeoihr utrtirqotjnupxj,ruhwrevuerevjzr jnjrtirtjhtopxjridroe,revuervj
pjxojyjwrevjzr icxwrupvinrevjrevicsveridrctohsruhzrquhrch.ohwxzrevue
tvicxwraihenopcejreirevjonrwjxoyjnuhaj;ruhwrevue,rodrOrfxjutjw,rvjr icxw
sireirevjqr oevrevjrixwrquh,ruhwrwotaicntjr oevrevjqrupiceroe,ruhwrnjecnh
usuohruhwrpnohsrqjrevjonruht jn;revuervjr icxwrqu.jraihwoeoihtr oevrevjq
cfihrevjonrtixjqhriuev,revuerevjzrtvicxwrpjruptixcejxzrchwjnrqzrwonjaeoih
utrevjonraiqquhwjnruhwraufeuoh;ruhwrevjzrtvicxwrt junrcfihrevjrvixz
tuanuqjhetruhwrsitfjxreirpjrencjreirqj,ruhwrsireirtcavrAvnoteouhraichenz
utrOrtvicxwrusnjjrei,ruhwrhirievjn;ruhwreirpjrwonjaejwr vixxzruhw
uptixcejxzrpzrqzrinwjntreoxxrevjzr jnjrxuhwjwrtudjxzrohrtcavraichenzrutrO
ohejhwjw,ruhwrevuervjr icxwrpnohsruraihenuaerdniqrevjq,rchwjnrevjon
vuhwt,rdinrevuerfcnfitjkrrEvjhrvjreixwrqjrvjr icxwrdontert junreirqj
voqtjxdrevuervjr icxwrhjyjnrteonrdniqrqjrutrxihsrutrvjrxoyjwreoxxrOrsuyj
voqrinwjnt;ruhwrevuervjr icxwreu.jrqzrtowjreirevjrxuterwnifridrvotrpxiiw,
odrevjnjrtvicxwrvuffjhrevjrxjuterpnjuavridrduoevruqihsrvotraichenzqjhk
Vjreixwrqjrevjzr jnjruxxridrevjqryjnzraoyox,rvihjterqjh,ruhwrevjzr jnj
chwjnrevjrsnjuejterwotenjttroqusohupxj,rvuyohsrhjoevjnr jufihtrhin
axievjt,rhinruhzrdiiw,rpceruerevjrqjnazruhwrwotanjeoihridrevjrtuyusjt;
iceridruxxrvifjtridrjyjnrnjecnhohsreirevjonri hraichenz;ruhwrevuervjr ut
tcnj,rodrOr icxwrchwjneu.jrevjonrnjxojd,revjzr icxwrxoyjruhwrwojrpzrqjk

Cfihrevjtjruttcnuhajt,rOrnjtixyjwreiryjhecnjreirnjxojyjrevjq,rod
fittopxj,ruhwreirtjhwrevjrixwrtuyusjruhwrevotrTfuhounwriyjnreirevjqrei
enjuekrrPcer vjhr jrvuwrsieruxxrevohstrohrnjuwohjttreirsi,revjrTfuhounw
voqtjxdrteunejwruhripbjaeoih,r voavrvuwrtirqcavrfncwjhajrohroerihrihj
vuhw,ruhwrtirqcavrtohajnoezrihrevjrievjnrvuhw,revuerOraicxwrhierpcerpj
yjnzr jxxrtueotdojwrohroe;ruhw,rpzrvotruwyoaj,rfceriddrevjrwjxoyjnuhajrid
votraiqnuwjtrdinruerxjutervuxdrurzjunkrrEvjrautjr utrevct:rvjrvuwrpjjh
 oevrctrhi rupicerurqihev,rwcnohsr voavreoqjrOrvuwrxjervoqrtjjrohr vue
quhhjnrOrvuwrfniyowjw,r oevrevjruttoteuhajridrFniyowjhaj,rdinrqzrtcffine;
uhwrvjrtu rjyowjhexzr vuerteia.ridrainhruhwrnoajrOrvuwrxuowrcf;r voav,
evicsvroer utrqinjrevuhrtcddoaojherdinrqztjxd,rzjeroer utrhiertcddoaojhe,
 oevicersiiwrvctpuhwnz,rdinrqzrduqoxz,rhi roer utrohanjutjwreirdicn;rpce
qcavrxjttr icxwroerpjrtcddoaojherodrvotraichenzqjh,r vir jnj,rutrvjrtuow,
tomejjh,rteoxxruxoyj,rtvicxwraiqjriyjn;ruhwrxjuteridruxxr icxwroerpj
tcddoaojhereiryoaecuxricnryjttjx,rodr jrtvicxwrpcoxwrihj,rdinruryizusjrei
uhzridrevjrAvnoteouhraixihojtridrUqjnoau;rtirvjreixwrqjrvjrevicsveroe
 icxwrpjrqinjruwyotupxjreirxjervoqruhwrevjrievjnre irwosruhwracxeoyuej
tiqjrqinjrxuhw,rutrqcavrutrOraicxwrtfunjrtjjwreirti ,ruhwrevuer jrtvicxw
 uoeruhievjnrvunyjte,revuer jrqosvervuyjrurtcffxzridrainhrdinrvot
aichenzqjh,r vjhrevjzrtvicxwraiqj;rdinr uherqosverpjrurejqfeueoihreirevjq
eirwotusnjj,rinrhiereirevoh.revjqtjxyjtrwjxoyjnjw,rievjn otjrevuhricerid
ihjrwoddoacxezroheiruhievjnkrr“Zicr.hi ,”rtuztrvj,r“evjravoxwnjhrid
Otnujx,revicsvrevjzrnjbioajwruerdonterdinrevjonrpjohsrwjxoyjnjwricerid
Jszfe,rzjernjpjxxjwrjyjhrusuohterSiwrVoqtjxd,revuerwjxoyjnjwrevjq,r vjh
evjzrauqjreir uherpnjuwrohrevjr oxwjnhjttk”

Votrauceoihr utrtirtjutihupxj,ruhwrvotruwyoajrtirsiiw,revuerOraicxwrhie
pcerpjryjnzr jxxrfxjutjwr oevrvotrfnifitux,rutr jxxrutrOr utrtueotdojw
 oevrvotrdowjxoez;rtir jrdjxxreirwossohs,ruxxrdicnridrct,rutr jxxrutrevj
 iiwjhreiixtr jr jnjrdcnhotvjwr oevrfjnqoeejw;ruhwrohrupicerurqihev’t
eoqj,rpzrevjrjhwridr voavroer utrtjjw-eoqj,r jrvuwrsierutrqcavrxuhwracnjw
uhwrenoqqjwrcfrutr jrti jwre i-uhw-e jhezrpctvjxtridrpunxjzrih,ruhw
tomejjhrbuntridrnoaj,r voavr ut,rohrtvine,ruxxrevjrtjjwr jrvuwreirtfunj:
ohwjjw,r jrxjdericntjxyjtrpunjxzrtcddoaojhe,rdinricnri hrdiiwrdinrevjrtom
qihevtrevuer jrvuwreirjmfjaericnranif;revuerotreirtuzrnja.ihohsrdniqrevj
eoqjr jrtjericnrtjjwrutowjrdinrti ohs;rdinroerotrhiereirpjrtcffitjwroerot
tomrqihevtrohrevjrsnichwrohrevueraichenzk

Vuyohsrhi rtiaojezrjhicsv,ruhwricnrhcqpjntrpjohsrtcddoaojhereirfcerctrice
idrdjunridrevjrtuyusjt,rodrevjzrvuwraiqj,rchxjttrevjonrhcqpjnrvuwrpjjh
yjnzrsnjue,r jr jherdnjjxzruxxriyjnrevjrotxuhw,r vjhjyjnr jrdichw
iaautoih;ruhwrutr jrvuwricnrjtaufjrinrwjxoyjnuhajrcfihricnrevicsvet,roe
 utroqfittopxj,ruerxjuterdinrqj,reirvuyjrevjrqjuhtridroericeridrqohjk
DinrevotrfcnfitjrOrqun.jwricertjyjnuxrenjjt,r voavrOrevicsverdoerdinricn
 in.,ruhwrOrtjerDnowuzruhwrvotrduevjnreiracerevjqrwi h;ruhwrevjhrOrauctjw
evjrTfuhounw,reir viqrOroqfunejwrqzrevicsvetrihrevuerudduon,reiriyjntjj
uhwrwonjaerevjonr in.krrOrtvi jwrevjqr oevr vuerohwjdueosupxjrfuohtrOrvuw
vj jwrurxunsjrenjjroheirtohsxjrfxuh.t,ruhwrOrauctjwrevjqreirwirevjrxo.j,
eoxxrevjzrquwjrupicerurwigjhrxunsjrfxuh.t,ridrsiiwriu.,rhjunre irdjje
pniuw,revonez-doyjrdjjerxihs,ruhwrdniqre irohavjtreirdicnrohavjtrevoa.:
 vuerfniwosoictrxupicnroereii.rcfruhzrihjrquzroqusohjk

UerevjrtuqjreoqjrOraihenoyjwreirohanjutjrqzrxoeexjrdxia.ridreuqjrsiuetrut
qcavrutrOraicxw;ruhwrdinrevotrfcnfitjrOrquwjrDnowuzruhwrevjrTfuhounwrsi
icerihjrwuz,ruhwrqztjxdr oevrDnowuzrevjrhjmerwuzr(dinr jreii.ricnrecnht),
uhwrpzrevotrqjuhtr jrsierupicere jhezrzichsr.owtreirpnjjwrcfr oevrevj
njte;rdinr vjhjyjnr jrtvierevjrwuq,r jrtuyjwrevjr.owt,ruhwruwwjwrevjqrei
icnrdxia.krrPcerupiyjruxx,revjrtjutihrdinracnohsrevjrsnufjtraiqohsrih,rO
auctjwrtcavrurfniwosoictrlcuheoezreirpjrvchsrcfrohrevjrtch,revue,rO
pjxojyj,rvuwr jrpjjhruerUxoauhe,r vjnjrevjrnuotohtridrevjrtchrunjracnjw,
 jraicxwrvuyjrdoxxjwrtomezrinrjosvezrpunnjxt;ruhwrevjtj,r oevricnrpnjuw,
dinqjwrursnjuerfuneridricnrdiiw—yjnzrsiiwrxoyohsreii,rOruttcnjrzic,rdin
evjzrunjrjmajjwohsxzrhicnotvohsk

Oer utrhi rvunyjte,ruhwricnranifrohrsiiwrinwjn:roer utrhierevjrqite
fxjheodcxrohanjutjrOrvuwrtjjhrohrevjrotxuhw,rpce,rvi jyjn,roer utrjhicsv
eiruht jnricnrjhw;rdinrdniqre jhez-e irpctvjxtridrpunxjzr jrpnicsveroh
uhwrevnutvjwricerupiyjre irvchwnjwruhwre jhezrpctvjxt;ruhwrevjrxo.jroh
fnifineoihridrevjrnoaj;r voavr utrteinjrjhicsvrdinricnrdiiwreirevjrhjme
vunyjte,revicsvruxxrevjrtomejjhrTfuhounwtrvuwrpjjhrihrtvinjr oevrqj;rin,
odr jrvuwrpjjhrnjuwzrdinruryizusj,roer icxwryjnzrfxjheodcxxzrvuyj
yoaecuxxjwricnrtvofreirvuyjraunnojwrctreiruhzrfuneridrevjr inxw;revuerot
eirtuz,ruhzrfuneridrUqjnoaukrr vjhr jrvuwrevctrvictjwruhwrtjacnjwricn
qusugohjridrainh,r jrdjxxreir in.reirqu.jrqinjr oa.jn- unj,ryogkrsnjue
put.jet,rohr voavr jr.jferoe;ruhwrevjrTfuhounwr utryjnzrvuhwzruhw
wjmejnictruerevotrfune,ruhwridejhrpxuqjwrqjrevuerOrwowrhierqu.jrtiqj
evohstrdinrwjdjhajridrevotr.ohwridr in.;rpcerOrtu rhirhjjwridroek

Uhwrhi ,rvuyohsrurdcxxrtcffxzridrdiiwrdinruxxrevjrscjtetrOrjmfjaejw,rO
suyjrevjrTfuhounwrxjuyjreirsiriyjnreirevjrquoh,reirtjjr vuervjraicxwrwi
 oevrevitjrvjrvuwrxjderpjvohwrvoqrevjnjkrrOrsuyjrvoqrurtenoaeravunsjrhie
eirpnohsruhzrquhr vir icxwrhierdontert junrohrevjrfnjtjhajridrvoqtjxdruhw
evjrixwrtuyusjrevuervjr icxwrohrhir uzrohbcnj,rdosver oev,rinrueeua.revj
fjntihrvjrtvicxwrdohwrohrevjrotxuhw,r vir utrtir.ohwrutreirtjhwrdinrevjq
ohrinwjnreirevjonrwjxoyjnuhaj;rpcerevuerevjzr icxwrteuhwrpzrvoqruhw
wjdjhwrvoqrusuohteruxxrtcavrueejqfet,ruhwr vjnjyjnrevjzr jher icxwrpj
jheonjxzrchwjnruhwrtcpbjaejwreirvotraiqquhw;ruhwrevuerevotrtvicxwrpjrfce
ohr noeohs,ruhwrtoshjwrohrevjonrvuhwtkrrVi revjzr jnjreirvuyjrwihjrevot,
 vjhrOr.hj revjzrvuwrhjoevjnrfjhrhinroh.,r utrurlcjteoihr voavr jrhjyjn
ut.jwkrrChwjnrevjtjrohtencaeoiht,revjrTfuhounwruhwrevjrixwrtuyusj,revj
duevjnridrDnowuz,r jheru uzrohrihjridrevjrauhijtr voavrevjzrqosverpjrtuow
eirvuyjraiqjroh,rinrnuevjnr jnjrpnicsveroh,r vjhrevjzrauqjrutrfnotihjnt
eirpjrwjyicnjwrpzrevjrtuyusjtkrrOrsuyjrjuavridrevjqrurqct.je,r oevru
donjxia.rihroe,ruhwrupicerjosveravunsjtridrfi wjnruhwrpuxx,ravunsohsrevjq
eirpjryjnzrsiiwrvctpuhwtridrpiev,ruhwrhiereirctjrjoevjnridrevjqrpcercfih
cnsjheriaautoihtk

Evotr utruravjjndcxr in.,rpjohsrevjrdonterqjutcnjtrctjwrpzrqjrohryoj rid
qzrwjxoyjnuhajrdinrhi re jhez-tjyjhrzjuntruhwrtiqjrwuztkrrOrsuyjrevjq
fniyotoihtridrpnjuwruhwridrwnojwrsnufjt,rtcddoaojherdinrevjqtjxyjtrdin
quhzrwuzt,ruhwrtcddoaojherdinruxxrevjrTfuhounwt—dinrupicerjosverwuzt’
eoqj;ruhwr otvohsrevjqrursiiwryizusj,rOrtu revjqrsi,rusnjjohsr oevrevjq
upicerurtoshuxrevjzrtvicxwrvuhsriceruerevjonrnjecnh,rpzr voavrOrtvicxw
.hi revjqrusuohr vjhrevjzrauqjrpua.,ruerurwoteuhaj,rpjdinjrevjzrauqjrih
tvinjkrrEvjzr jheru uzr oevrurduonrsuxjrihrevjrwuzrevuerevjrqiihr utrue
dcxx,rpzrqzruaaicherohrevjrqihevridrIaeipjn;rpcerutrdinruhrjmuae
nja.ihohsridrwuzt,rudejnrOrvuwrihajrxiteroerOraicxwrhjyjnrnjaiyjnroe
usuoh;rhinrvuwrOr.jferjyjhrevjrhcqpjnridrzjuntrtirfchaecuxxzrutreirpj
tcnjrOr utrnosve;revicsv,rutroerfniyjwr vjhrOrudejn unwtrjmuqohjwrqz
uaaiche,rOrdichwrOrvuwr.jferurencjrnja.ihohsridrzjuntk

Oer utrhirxjttrevuhrjosverwuztrOrvuwr uoejwrdinrevjq,r vjhrurtenuhsjruhw
chdinjtjjhruaaowjherohejnyjhjw,ridr voavrevjrxo.jrvutrhie,rfjnvuft,rpjjh
vjunwridrohrvoteinzkrrOr utrduterutxjjfrohrqzrvceavrihjrqinhohs,r vjhrqz
quhrDnowuzrauqjrnchhohsrohreirqj,ruhwrauxxjwruxicw,r“Qutejn,rqutejn,revjz
unjraiqj,revjzrunjraiqj!”rrOrbcqfjwrcf,ruhwrnjsunwxjttridrwuhsjnrOr jhe,
utrtiihrutrOraicxwrsjerqzraxievjtrih,revnicsvrqzrxoeexjrsniyj,r voav,rpz
evjr uz,r utrpzrevotreoqjrsni hreirpjruryjnzrevoa.r iiw;rOrtuz,
njsunwxjttridrwuhsjnrOr jher oevicerqzrunqt,r voavr utrhierqzracteiqrei
wi;rpcerOr utrtcnfnotjwr vjh,recnhohsrqzrjzjtreirevjrtju,rOrfnjtjhexzrtu 
urpiueruerupicerurxjuscjruhwrurvuxdrwoteuhaj,rteuhwohsrohrdinrevjrtvinj,
 oevrurtvicxwjn-id-qceeihrtuox,rutrevjzrauxxroe,ruhwrevjr ohwrpxi ohs
fnjeezrduonreirpnohsrevjqroh:ruxtirOriptjnyjw,rfnjtjhexz,revuerevjzrwow
hieraiqjrdniqrevuertowjr voavrevjrtvinjrxuzrih,rpcerdniqrevjrticevjnhqite
jhwridrevjrotxuhwkrrCfihrevotrOrauxxjwrDnowuzroh,ruhwrpuwjrvoqrxojraxitj,
dinrevjtjr jnjrhierevjrfjifxjr jrxii.jwrdin,ruhwrevuer jrqosverhier.hi 
zjer vjevjnrevjzr jnjrdnojhwtrinrjhjqojtkrrOhrevjrhjmerfxuajrOr jherohrei
djeavrqzrfjntfjaeoyjrsxuttreirtjjr vuerOraicxwrqu.jridrevjq;ruhwrvuyohs
eu.jhrevjrxuwwjnrice,rOraxoqpjwrcfreirevjreifridrevjrvoxx,rutrOrctjwrei
wir vjhrOr utruffnjvjhtoyjridruhzevohs,ruhwreireu.jrqzryoj revjrfxuohjn
 oevicerpjohsrwotaiyjnjwkrrOrvuwrtaunajrtjerqzrdiiercfihrevjrvoxxr vjhrqz
jzjrfxuohxzrwotaiyjnjwrurtvofrxzohsrueruhavin,ruerupicere irxjuscjtruhwru
vuxdrwoteuhajrdniqrqj,rTTJk,rpcerhierupiyjrurxjuscjruhwrurvuxdrdniqrevj
tvinjkrrPzrqzriptjnyueoihroeruffjunjwrfxuohxzreirpjruhrJhsxotvrtvof,ruhw
evjrpiueruffjunjwreirpjruhrJhsxotvrxihs-piuek

OrauhhierjmfnjttrevjraihdctoihrOr utroh,revicsvrevjrbizridrtjjohsrurtvof,
uhwrihjrevuerOrvuwrnjutihreirpjxojyjr utrquhhjwrpzrqzri hraichenzqjh,ruhw
aihtjlcjhexzrdnojhwt,r utrtcavrutrOrauhhierwjtanopj;rpcerzjerOrvuwrtiqj
tjanjerwicpetrvchsrupicerqj—Orauhhierejxxrdniqr vjhajrevjzrauqj—powwohs
qjr.jjfrcfihrqzrscunwkrrOhrevjrdonterfxuaj,roeriaacnnjwreirqjreiraihtowjn
 vuerpctohjttruhrJhsxotvrtvofraicxwrvuyjrohrevuerfuneridrevjr inxw,rtohaj
oer utrhierevjr uzreirinrdniqruhzrfuneridrevjr inxwr vjnjrevjrJhsxotvrvuw
uhzrenuddoa;ruhwrOr.hj revjnjrvuwrpjjhrhirteinqtreirwnoyjrevjqrohrevjnj
ohrwotenjtt;ruhwrevuerodrevjzr jnjrnjuxxzrJhsxotvroer utrqiterfnipupxj
evuerevjzr jnjrvjnjrcfihrhirsiiwrwjtosh;ruhwrevuerOrvuwrpjeejnraiheohcj
utrOr utrevuhrduxxroheirevjrvuhwtridrevojyjtruhwrqcnwjnjntk

Xjerhirquhrwjtfotjrevjrtjanjervohetruhwrhieoajtridrwuhsjnr voavrtiqjeoqjt
unjrsoyjhrvoqr vjhrvjrquzrevoh.revjnjrotrhirfittopoxoezridroetrpjohs
njuxkrrEvuertcavrvohetruhwrhieoajtrunjrsoyjhrctrOrpjxojyjrdj revuervuyj
quwjruhzriptjnyueoihridrevohstrauhrwjhz;revuerevjzrunjrajneuoh
wotaiyjnojtridruhrohyotopxjr inxw,ruhwruraihyjntjridrtfonoet,r jrauhhie
wicpe;ruhwrodrevjrejhwjhazridrevjqrtjjqtreirpjreir unhrctridrwuhsjn,r vz
tvicxwr jrhiertcffitjrevjzrunjrdniqrtiqjrdnojhwxzrusjher( vjevjnrtcfnjqj,
inrohdjnoinruhwrtcpinwohuej,rotrhierevjrlcjteoih),ruhwrevuerevjzrunj
soyjhrdinricnrsiiw?

Evjrfnjtjherlcjteoihrupchwuhexzraihdonqtrqjrohrevjrbcteoajridrevot
njutihohs;rdinrvuwrOrhierpjjhrquwjrauceoictrpzrevotrtjanjeruwqihoeoih,
aiqjroerdniqr vjhajroer oxx,rOrvuwrpjjhrwihjrohjyoeupxz,ruhwrohrurdun
 intjraihwoeoihrevuhrpjdinj,rutrzicr oxxrtjjrfnjtjhexzkrrOrvuwrhier.jfe
qztjxdrxihsrohrevotrfitecnjreoxxrOrtu revjrpiuerwnu rhjunrevjrtvinj,rut
odrevjzrxii.jwrdinruranjj.reirevncterohrue,rdinrevjraihyjhojhajrid
xuhwohs;rvi jyjn,rutrevjzrwowrhieraiqjrlcoejrdunrjhicsv,revjzrwowrhiertjj
evjrxoeexjrohxjer vjnjrOrdinqjnxzrxuhwjwrqzrnudet,rpcernuhrevjonrpiuerih
tvinjrcfihrevjrpjuav,ruerupicervuxdrurqoxjrdniqrqj,r voavr utryjnzrvuffz
dinrqj;rdinrievjn otjrevjzr icxwrvuyjrxuhwjwrbcteruerqzrwiin,rutrOrquz
tuz,ruhwr icxwrtiihrvuyjrpjuejhrqjriceridrqzrautexj,ruhwrfjnvuftrvuyj
fxchwjnjwrqjridruxxrOrvuwkrr vjhrevjzr jnjrihrtvinjrOr utrdcxxzrtueotdojw
evjzr jnjrJhsxotvqjh,ruerxjuterqiteridrevjq;rihjrinre irOrevicsver jnj
Wceav,rpceroerwowrhierfniyjrti;revjnjr jnjrohruxxrjxjyjhrqjh,r vjnjid
evnjjridrevjqrOrdichwr jnjrchunqjwruhw,rutrOrevicsve,rpichw;ruhwr vjhrevj
donterdicnrinrdoyjridrevjqr jnjrbcqfjwrihrtvinj,revjzreii.revitjrevnjj
iceridrevjrpiuerutrfnotihjnt:rihjridrevjrevnjjrOraicxwrfjnajoyjrctohsrevj
qiterfuttoihuejrsjtecnjtridrjhenjuez,ruddxoaeoih,ruhwrwjtfuon,rjyjhreiru
.ohwridrjmenuyusuhaj;revjrievjnre i,rOraicxwrfjnajoyj,rxodejwrcfrevjon
vuhwtrtiqjeoqjt,ruhwruffjunjwraihajnhjwrohwjjw,rpcerhiereirtcavrurwjsnjj
utrevjrdontekrrOr utrfjndjaexzraihdichwjwruerevjrtosve,ruhwr.hj rhier vue
evjrqjuhohsridroertvicxwrpjkrrDnowuzrauxxjwricereirqjrohrJhsxotv,rutr jxx
utrvjraicxw,r“Irqutejn!rzicrtjjrJhsxotvrquhtrjuerfnotihjnrutr jxxrut
tuyusjrquhtk”rr“ vz,rDnowuz,”rtuztrO,r“wirzicrevoh.revjzrunjrsiohsreirjue
evjq,revjh?”rr“Zjt,”rtuztrDnowuz,r“evjzr oxxrjuerevjqk”rr“Hirhi,”rtuztrO,
“Dnowuz;rOruqrudnuowrevjzr oxxrqcnwjnrevjq,rohwjjw;rpcerzicrquzrpjrtcnj
evjzr oxxrhierjuerevjqk”

Uxxrevotr voxjrOrvuwrhirevicsveridr vuerevjrqueejnrnjuxxzr ut,rpcerteiiw
enjqpxohsr oevrevjrvinninridrevjrtosve,rjmfjaeohsrjyjnzrqiqjher vjhrevj
evnjjrfnotihjntrtvicxwrpjr.oxxjw;rhuz,rihajrOrtu rihjridrevjryoxxuoht
xodercfrvotrunqr oevrursnjueracexutt,rutrevjrtjuqjhrauxxroe,rinrt inw,rei
teno.jrihjridrevjrfiinrqjh;ruhwrOrjmfjaejwreirtjjrvoqrduxxrjyjnzrqiqjhe;
uer voavruxxrevjrpxiiwrohrqzrpiwzrtjjqjwreirnchravoxxrohrqzryjohtkrrO
 otvjwrvjuneoxzrhi rdinrevjrTfuhounw,ruhwrevjrtuyusjrevuervuwrsihjr oev
voq,rinrevuerOrvuwruhzr uzreirvuyjraiqjrchwotaiyjnjwr oevohrtvieridrevjq,
evuerOrqosvervuyjrtjacnjwrevjrevnjjrqjh,rdinrOrtu rhirdonjunqtrevjzrvuw
uqihsrevjq;rpceroerdjxxricereirqzrqohwruhievjnr uzkrrUdejnrOrvuwriptjnyjw
evjricenusjictrctusjridrevjrevnjjrqjhrpzrevjrohtixjhertjuqjh,rOriptjnyjw
evjrdjxxi trnchrtaueejnohsrupicerevjrotxuhw,rutrodrevjzr uhejwreirtjjrevj
aichenzkrrOriptjnyjwrevuerevjrevnjjrievjnrqjhrvuwrxopjnezreirsiruxti
 vjnjrevjzrfxjutjw;rpcerevjzrtuerwi hruxxrevnjjrcfihrevjrsnichw,ryjnz
fjhtoyj,ruhwrxii.jwrxo.jrqjhrohrwjtfuonkrrEvotrfcerqjrohrqohwridrevj
dontereoqjr vjhrOrauqjrihrtvinj,ruhwrpjsuhreirxii.rupicerqj;rvi rOrsuyj
qztjxdriyjnrdinrxite;rvi r oxwxzrOrxii.jwrnichwrqj;r vuerwnjuwdcx
uffnjvjhtoihtrOrvuw;ruhwrvi rOrxiwsjwrohrevjrenjjruxxrhosverdinrdjunrid
pjohsrwjyicnjwrpzr oxwrpjutetkrrUtrOr.hj rhievohsrevuerhosveridrevj
tcffxzrOr utreirnjajoyjrpzrevjrfniyowjheouxrwnoyohsridrevjrtvofrhjunjn
evjrxuhwrpzrevjrteinqtruhwreowj,rpzr voavrOrvuyjrtohajrpjjhrtirxihs
hicnotvjwruhwrtcffinejw;rtirevjtjrevnjjrfiinrwjtixuejrqjhr.hj rhievohs
vi rajneuohridrwjxoyjnuhajruhwrtcffxzrevjzr jnj,rvi rhjunroer utreirevjq,
uhwrvi rjddjaecuxxzruhwrnjuxxzrevjzr jnjrohruraihwoeoihridrtudjez,ruerevj
tuqjreoqjrevuerevjzrevicsverevjqtjxyjtrxiteruhwrevjonrautjrwjtfjnuejkrrTi
xoeexjrwir jrtjjrpjdinjrctrohrevjr inxw,ruhwrtirqcavrnjutihrvuyjr jrei
wjfjhwravjjndcxxzrcfihrevjrsnjuerQu.jnridrevjr inxw,revuerVjrwijtrhie
xjuyjrVotranjuecnjtrtiruptixcejxzrwjteoecej,rpcerevuerohrevjr inte
aonacqteuhajtrevjzrvuyjrux uztrtiqjevohsreirpjrevuh.dcxrdin,ruhw
tiqjeoqjtrunjrhjunjnrwjxoyjnuhajrevuhrevjzroqusohj;rhuz,runjrjyjhrpnicsve
eirevjonrwjxoyjnuhajrpzrevjrqjuhtrpzr voavrevjzrtjjqreirpjrpnicsverei
evjonrwjtencaeoihk

Oer utrbcteruervosv- uejnr vjhrevjtjrfjifxjrauqjrihrtvinj;ruhwr voxjrevjz
nuqpxjwrupicereirtjjr vuer.ohwridrurfxuajrevjzr jnjroh,revjzrvuw
aunjxjttxzrteuzjwreoxxrevjreowjr utrtfjhe,ruhwrevjr uejnr utrjppjw
aihtowjnupxzru uz,rxjuyohsrevjonrpiuerusnichwkrrEvjzrvuwrxjdere irqjhroh
evjrpiue,r vi,rutrOrdichwrudejn unwt,rvuyohsrwnch.rurxoeexjreiirqcav
pnuhwz,rdjxxrutxjjf;rvi jyjn,rihjridrevjqr u.ohsrurxoeexjrtiihjnrevuhrevj
ievjnruhwrdohwohsrevjrpiuereiirduterusnichwrdinrvoqreirteonroe,rvuxxiijw
icerdinrevjrnjte,r vir jnjrtenussxohsrupice:rcfihr voavrevjzruxxrtiih
auqjreirevjrpiue:rpceroer utrfuteruxxrevjonrtenjhsevreirxuchavrvjn,revj
piuerpjohsryjnzrvjuyz,ruhwrevjrtvinjrihrevuertowjrpjohsrurtideriigzrtuhw,
uxqiterxo.jrurlcoa.tuhwkrrOhrevotraihwoeoih,rxo.jrencjrtjuqjh,r virunj,
fjnvuft,revjrxjuteridruxxrquh.ohwrsoyjhreirdinjevicsve,revjzrsuyjroe
iyjn,ruhwru uzrevjzrtenixxjwrupicerevjraichenzrusuoh;ruhwrOrvjunwrihjrid
evjqrtuzruxicwreiruhievjn,rauxxohsrevjqriddrdniqrevjrpiue,r“ vz,rxjervjn
uxihj,rBua.,rauh’erzic?rtvj’xxrdxiuerhjmereowj;”rpzr voavrOr utrdcxxz
aihdonqjwrohrevjrquohrohlconzridr vueraichenzqjhrevjzr jnjkrrUxxrevot
 voxjrOr.jferqztjxdryjnzraxitj,rhierihajrwunohsreirteonriceridrqzrautexj
uhzrdunevjnrevuhreirqzrfxuajridriptjnyueoihrhjunrevjreifridrevjrvoxx:ruhw
yjnzrsxuwrOr utreirevoh.rvi r jxxroer utrdineodojwkrrOr.hj roer utrhi
xjttrevuhrejhrvicntrpjdinjrevjrpiueraicxwrdxiuerusuoh,ruhwrpzrevuereoqj
oer icxwrpjrwun.,ruhwrOrqosverpjruerqinjrxopjnezreirtjjrevjonrqieoiht,
uhwreirvjunrevjonrwotaicntj,rodrevjzrvuwruhzkrrOhrevjrqjuheoqjrOrdoeejw
qztjxdrcfrdinrurpueexjrutrpjdinj,revicsvr oevrqinjrauceoih,r.hi ohsrOrvuw
eirwir oevruhievjnr.ohwridrjhjqzrevuhrOrvuwruerdontekrrOrinwjnjwrDnowuz
uxti,r viqrOrvuwrquwjruhrjmajxxjherqun.tquhr oevrvotrsch,reirxiuwrvoqtjxd
 oevrunqtkrrOreii.rqztjxdre irdi xohs-fojajt,ruhwrOrsuyjrvoqrevnjj
qct.jetkrrQzrdoscnj,rohwjjw,r utryjnzrdojnaj;rOrvuwrqzrdinqowupxj
siue-t.ohraiuerih,r oevrevjrsnjueraufrOrvuyjrqjheoihjw,rurhu.jwrt inwrpz
qzrtowj,re irfoteixtrohrqzrpjxe,ruhwrurschrcfihrjuavrtvicxwjnk

Oer utrqzrwjtosh,rutrOrtuowrupiyj,rhiereirvuyjrquwjruhzrueejqfereoxxroe
 utrwun.;rpcerupicere iri’axia.,rpjohsrevjrvjueridrevjrwuz,rOrdichwrevue
evjzr jnjruxxrsihjrtenussxohsroheirevjr iiwt,ruhw,rutrOrevicsve,rxuow
wi hreirtxjjfkrrEvjrevnjjrfiinrwotenjttjwrqjh,reiiruhmoictrdinrevjon
aihwoeoihreirsjeruhzrtxjjf,rvuw,rvi jyjn,rtuerwi hrchwjnrevjrtvjxejnridru
snjuerenjj,ruerupicerurlcunejnridrurqoxjrdniqrqj,ruhw,rutrOrevicsve,rice
idrtosveridruhzridrevjrnjtekrrCfihrevotrOrnjtixyjwreirwotaiyjnrqztjxdrei
evjq,ruhwrxjunhrtiqjevohsridrevjonraihwoeoih;roqqjwouejxzrOrqunavjwrut
upiyj,rqzrquhrDnowuzruerursiiwrwoteuhajrpjvohwrqj,rutrdinqowupxjrdinrvot
unqtrutrO,rpcerhierqu.ohsrlcoejrtirteunohsrurtfjaenj-xo.jrdoscnjrutrO
wowkrrOrauqjrutrhjunrevjqrchwotaiyjnjwrutrOraicxw,ruhwrevjh,rpjdinjruhz
idrevjqrtu rqj,rOrauxxjwruxicwreirevjqrohrTfuhotv,r“ vuerunjrzj,
sjhexjqjh?”rrEvjzrteunejwrcfruerevjrhiotj,rpcer jnjrejhreoqjtrqinj
aihdichwjwr vjhrevjzrtu rqj,ruhwrevjrchaicevrdoscnjrevuerOrquwjkrrEvjz
quwjrhiruht jnrueruxx,rpcerOrevicsverOrfjnajoyjwrevjqrbctersiohsreirdxz
dniqrqj,r vjhrOrtfi.jreirevjqrohrJhsxotvkr“Sjhexjqjh,”rtuowrO,r“wirhierpj
tcnfnotjwruerqj;rfjnvuftrzicrquzrvuyjrurdnojhwrhjunr vjhrzicrwowrhie
jmfjaeroek”rr“Vjrqcterpjrtjherwonjaexzrdniqrvjuyjhrevjh,”rtuowrihjrid
evjqryjnzrsnuyjxzreirqj,ruhwrfcxxohsriddrvotrvueruerevjrtuqjreoqjreirqj;
“dinricnraihwoeoihrotrfuterevjrvjxfridrquhk”rr“Uxxrvjxfrotrdniqrvjuyjh,
ton,”rtuowrO,r“pcerauhrzicrfcerurtenuhsjnrohrevjr uzreirvjxfrzic?rdinrzic
tjjqreirpjrohrtiqjrsnjuerwotenjttkrrOrtu rzicr vjhrzicrxuhwjw;ruhwr vjh
zicrtjjqjwreirqu.jruffxoaueoihreirevjrpncejtrevuerauqjr oevrzic,rOrtu 
ihjridrevjqrxodercfrvotrt inwreir.oxxrzick”

Evjrfiinrquh,r oevrejuntrnchhohsrwi hrvotrduaj,ruhwrenjqpxohs,rxii.ohs
xo.jrihjruteihotvjw,rnjecnhjw,r“UqrOreux.ohsreirSiwrinrquh?rrOtroerurnjux
quhrinruhruhsjx?”rr“Pjrohrhirdjunrupicerevue,rton,”rtuowrO;r“odrSiwrvuw
tjheruhruhsjxreirnjxojyjrzic,rvjr icxwrvuyjraiqjrpjeejnraxievjw,ruhw
unqjwrudejnruhievjnrquhhjnrevuhrzicrtjjrqj;rfnuzrxuzrutowjrzicnrdjunt;rO
uqrurquh,ruhrJhsxotvquh,ruhwrwotfitjwreiruttoterzic;rzicrtjjrOrvuyjrihj
tjnyuherihxz;r jrvuyjrunqtruhwruqqchoeoih;rejxxrctrdnjjxz,rauhr jrtjnyj
zic?rr vuerotrzicnrautj?”rr“Icnrautj,rton,”rtuowrvj,r“otreiirxihsreirejxx
zicr voxjricnrqcnwjnjntrunjrtirhjunrct;rpce,rohrtvine,rton,rOr ut
aiqquhwjnridrevuertvof—qzrqjhrvuyjrqceohojwrusuohterqj;revjzrvuyjrpjjh
vunwxzrfnjyuoxjwrihrhiereirqcnwjnrqj,ruhw,ruerxute,rvuyjrtjerqjrihrtvinj
ohrevotrwjtixuejrfxuaj,r oevrevjtjre irqjhr oevrqj—ihjrqzrquej,revjrievjn
urfuttjhsjn— vjnjr jrjmfjaejwreirfjnotv,rpjxojyohsrevjrfxuajreirpj
chohvupoejw,ruhwr.hi rhierzjer vuereirevoh.ridroek”rr“ vjnjrunjrevjtj
pncejt,rzicnrjhjqojt?”rtuowrO;r“wirzicr.hi r vjnjrevjzrunjrsihj?rrEvjnj
evjzrxoj,rton,”rtuowrvj,rfioheohsreirurevoa.jeridrenjjt;r“qzrvjune
enjqpxjtrdinrdjunrevjzrvuyjrtjjhrctruhwrvjunwrzicrtfju.;rodrevjzrvuyj,
evjzr oxxrajneuohxzrqcnwjnrctruxxk”rr“Vuyjrevjzruhzrdonjunqt?”rtuowrOk
Vjruht jnjw,r“Evjzrvuwrihxzre irfojajt,rihjridr voavrevjzrxjderohrevj
piuek”rr“ jxx,revjh,”rtuowrO,r“xjuyjrevjrnjtereirqj;rOrtjjrevjzrunjruxx
utxjjf;roerotruhrjutzrevohsreir.oxxrevjqruxx;rpcertvuxxr jrnuevjnreu.j
evjqrfnotihjnt?”rrVjreixwrqjrevjnjr jnjre irwjtfjnuejryoxxuohtruqihsrevjq
evueroer utrtaunajrtudjreirtvi ruhzrqjnazrei;rpcerodrevjzr jnjrtjacnjw,
vjrpjxojyjwruxxrevjrnjter icxwrnjecnhreirevjonrwcezkrrOrut.jwrvoqr voav
evjzr jnjkrrVjreixwrqjrvjraicxwrhieruerevuerwoteuhajrwoteohscotvrevjq,
pcervjr icxwripjzrqzrinwjntrohruhzevohsrOr icxwrwonjaekrr“ jxx,”rtuztrO,
“xjerctrnjenjuericeridrevjonryoj rinrvjunohs,rxjterevjzru u.j,ruhwr j
 oxxrnjtixyjrdcnevjnk”rrTirevjzr oxxohsxzr jherpua.r oevrqj,reoxxrevj
 iiwtraiyjnjwrctrdniqrevjqk

“Xii.rzic,rton,”rtuowrO,r“odrOryjhecnjrcfihrzicnrwjxoyjnuhaj,runjrzic
 oxxohsreirqu.jre iraihwoeoihtr oevrqj?”rrVjruheoaofuejwrqzrfnifituxtrpz
ejxxohsrqjrevuerpievrvjruhwrevjrtvof,rodrnjaiyjnjw,rtvicxwrpjr vixxz
wonjaejwruhwraiqquhwjwrpzrqjrohrjyjnzevohs;ruhwrodrevjrtvofr utrhie
njaiyjnjw,rvjr icxwrxoyjruhwrwojr oevrqjrohr vuerfuneridrevjr inxwrtijyjn
Or icxwrtjhwrvoq;ruhwrevjre irievjnrqjhrtuowrevjrtuqjkrr“ jxx,”rtuztrO,
“qzraihwoeoihtrunjrpcere i;rdonte,revuer voxjrzicrteuzrohrevotrotxuhw
 oevrqj,rzicr oxxrhierfnjejhwreiruhzrucevinoezrvjnj;ruhwrodrOrfcerunqtroh
zicnrvuhwt,rzicr oxx,rcfihruxxriaautoiht,rsoyjrevjqrcfreirqj,ruhwrwirhi
fnjbcwoajreirqjrinrqohjrcfihrevotrotxuhw,ruhwrohrevjrqjuheoqjrpjrsiyjnhjw
pzrqzrinwjnt;rtjaihwxz,revuerodrevjrtvofrotrinrquzrpjrnjaiyjnjw,rzicr oxx
aunnzrqjruhwrqzrquhreirJhsxuhwrfuttusjrdnjjk”

Vjrsuyjrqjruxxrevjruttcnuhajtrevuerevjrohyjheoihrinrduoevridrquhraicxw
wjyotjrevuervjr icxwraiqfxzr oevrevjtjrqiternjutihupxjrwjquhwt,ruhw
pjtowjtr icxwri jrvotrxodjreirqj,ruhwrua.hi xjwsjroercfihruxxriaautoiht
utrxihsrutrvjrxoyjwkrr“ jxx,revjh,”rtuowrO,r“vjnjrunjrevnjjrqct.jetrdin
zic,r oevrfi wjnruhwrpuxx;rejxxrqjrhjmer vuerzicrevoh.rotrfnifjnreirpj
wihjk”rrVjrtvi jwruxxrevjrejteoqihojtridrvotrsnueoecwjrevuervjr utrupxj,
pceriddjnjwreirpjr vixxzrscowjwrpzrqjkrrOreixwrvoqrOrevicsveroer utryjnz
vunwryjhecnohsruhzevohs;rpcerevjrpjterqjeviwrOraicxwrevoh.ridr utreirdonj
ihrevjqruerihajrutrevjzrxuz,ruhwrodruhzr jnjrhier.oxxjwruerevjrdonte
yixxjz,ruhwriddjnjwreirtcpqoe,r jrqosvertuyjrevjq,ruhwrtirfceroer vixxz
cfihrSiw’trfniyowjhajreirwonjaerevjrtviekrrVjrtuow,ryjnzrqiwjtexz,revue
vjr utrxiuevreir.oxxrevjqrodrvjraicxwrvjxfroe;rpcerevuerevitjre ir jnj
ohainnosopxjryoxxuoht,ruhwrvuwrpjjhrevjrucevintridruxxrevjrqceohzrohrevj
tvof,ruhwrodrevjzrjtaufjw,r jrtvicxwrpjrchwihjrteoxx,rdinrevjzr icxwrsi
ihrpiunwruhwrpnohsrevjr vixjrtvof’traiqfuhz,ruhwrwjtenizrctruxxkrr“ jxx,
evjh,”rtuztrO,r“hjajttoezrxjsoeoquejtrqzruwyoaj,rdinroerotrevjrihxzr uz
eirtuyjricnrxoyjtk”rrVi jyjn,rtjjohsrvoqrteoxxrauceoictridrtvjwwohs
pxiiw,rOreixwrvoqrevjzrtvicxwrsirevjqtjxyjt,ruhwrquhusjrutrevjzrdichw
aihyjhojhek

Ohrevjrqowwxjridrevotrwotaicntjr jrvjunwrtiqjridrevjqru u.j,ruhwrtiih
udejnr jrtu re iridrevjqrihrevjonrdjjekrrOrut.jwrvoqrodrjoevjnridrevjq
 jnjrevjrvjuwtridrevjrqceohz?rrVjrtuow,r“Hik”rr“ jxx,revjh,”rtuowrO,r“zic
quzrxjerevjqrjtaufj;ruhwrFniyowjhajrtjjqtreirvuyjru u.jhjwrevjqrih
fcnfitjreirtuyjrevjqtjxyjtkrrHi ,”rtuztrO,r“odrevjrnjterjtaufjrzic,roerot
zicnrducxek”rrUhoquejwr oevrevot,rvjreii.revjrqct.jerOrvuwrsoyjhrvoqroh
votrvuhw,ruhwrurfoteixrohrvotrpjxe,ruhwrvotre iraiqnuwjtr oevrvoq,r oev
juavrurfojajrohrvotrvuhw;revjre irqjhr vir jnjr oevrvoqrsiohsrdonterquwj
tiqjrhiotj,ruer voavrihjridrevjrtjuqjhr vir utru u.jrecnhjwrupice,ruhw
tjjohsrevjqraiqohs,ranojwricereirevjrnjte;rpcer utreiirxuejrevjh,rdinrevj
qiqjhervjranojwricerevjzrdonjw—Orqjuhrevjre irqjh,revjraufeuohr otjxz
njtjnyohsrvotri hrfojajkrrEvjzrvuwrtir jxxruoqjwrevjonrtvieruerevjrqjh
evjzr.hj ,revuerihjridrevjqr utr.oxxjwrihrevjrtfie,ruhwrevjrievjnryjnz
qcavr ichwjw;rpcerhierpjohsrwjuw,rvjrteunejwrcfrihrvotrdjje,ruhwrauxxjw
jusjnxzrdinrvjxfreirevjrievjn;rpcerevjraufeuohrtejffohsreirvoq,reixwrvoq
oer utreiirxuejreiranzrdinrvjxf,rvjrtvicxwrauxxrcfihrSiwreirdinsoyjrvot
yoxxuohz,ruhwr oevrevuer inwr.hia.jwrvoqrwi hr oevrevjrteia.ridrvot
qct.je,rtirevuervjrhjyjnrtfi.jrqinj;revjnjr jnjrevnjjrqinjrohrevj
aiqfuhz,ruhwrihjridrevjqr utrtxosvexzr ichwjwkrrPzrevotreoqjrOr utraiqj;
uhwr vjhrevjzrtu revjonrwuhsjn,ruhwrevueroer utrohryuohreirnjtote,revjz
pjssjwrdinrqjnazkrrEvjraufeuohreixwrevjqrvjr icxwrtfunjrevjonrxoyjtrod
evjzr icxwrsoyjrvoqruhruttcnuhajridrevjonrupvinnjhajridrevjrenjuavjnz
evjzrvuwrpjjhrscoxezrid,ruhwr icxwrt junreirpjrduoevdcxreirvoqroh
njaiyjnohsrevjrtvof,ruhwrudejn unwtrohraunnzohsrvjnrpua.reirBuquoau,rdniq
 vjhajrevjzrauqjkrrEvjzrsuyjrvoqruxxrevjrfniejteueoihtridrevjonrtohajnoez
evueraicxwrpjrwjtonjw;ruhwrvjr utr oxxohsreirpjxojyjrevjq,ruhwrtfunj
evjonrxoyjt,r voavrOr utrhierusuohte,rihxzrevuerOripxosjwrvoqreir.jjf
evjqrpichwrvuhwruhwrdiier voxjrevjzr jnjrihrevjrotxuhwk

 voxjrevotr utrwiohs,rOrtjherDnowuzr oevrevjraufeuoh’trquejreirevjrpiue
 oevrinwjntreirtjacnjrvjn,ruhwrpnohsru uzrevjriuntruhwrtuoxt,r voavrevjz
wow;ruhwrpz-uhw-pzrevnjjrtenussxohsrqjh,revuer jnjr(vuffoxzrdinrevjq)
funejwrdniqrevjrnjte,rauqjrpua.rcfihrvjunohsrevjrschtrdonjw;ruhwrtjjohs
evjraufeuoh,r vir utrpjdinjrevjonrfnotihjn,rhi revjonraihlcjnin,revjz
tcpqoeejwreirpjrpichwruxti;ruhwrtiricnryoaeinzr utraiqfxjejk

Oerhi rnjquohjwrevuerevjraufeuohruhwrOrtvicxwrohlconjroheirihjruhievjn’t
aonacqteuhajtkrrOrpjsuhrdonte,ruhwreixwrvoqrqzr vixjrvoteinz,r voavrvj
vjunwr oevruhrueejheoihrjyjhreiruqugjqjhe—uhwrfuneoacxunxzruerevj
 ihwjndcxrquhhjnridrqzrpjohsrdcnhotvjwr oevrfniyotoihtruhwruqqchoeoih;
uhw,rohwjjw,rutrqzrteinzrotrur vixjraixxjaeoihridr ihwjnt,roeruddjaejw
voqrwjjfxzkrrPcer vjhrvjrnjdxjaejwrdniqrevjhajrcfihrvoqtjxd,ruhwrvi rO
tjjqjwreirvuyjrpjjhrfnjtjnyjwrevjnjrihrfcnfitjreirtuyjrvotrxodj,revj
ejuntrnuhrwi hrvotrduaj,ruhwrvjraicxwrhiertfju.rur inwrqinjkrrUdejnrevot
aiqqchoaueoihr utrueruhrjhw,rOraunnojwrvoqruhwrvotre irqjhroheirqz
ufuneqjhe,rxjuwohsrevjqrohrbcter vjnjrOrauqjrice,ryogkruerevjreifridrevj
victj,r vjnjrOrnjdnjtvjwrevjqr oevrtcavrfniyotoihtrutrOrvuw,ruhwrtvi jw
evjqruxxrevjraihenoyuhajtrOrvuwrquwjrwcnohsrqzrxihs,rxihsrohvupoeohsrevue
fxuajk

UxxrOrtvi jwrevjq,ruxxrOrtuowreirevjq,r utrfjndjaexzruqugohs;rpcerupiyj
uxx,revjraufeuohruwqonjwrqzrdineodoaueoih,ruhwrvi rfjndjaexzrOrvuw
aihajuxjwrqzrnjenjuer oevrursniyjridrenjjt,r voavrvuyohsrpjjhrhi rfxuhejw
hjunxzre jhezrzjunt,ruhwrevjrenjjtrsni ohsrqcavrdutejnrevuhrohrJhsxuhw,
 utrpjaiqjrurxoeexjr iiw,rtirevoa.revueroer utroqfuttupxjrohruhzrfunerid
oerpceruerevuerihjrtowjr vjnjrOrvuwrnjtjnyjwrqzrxoeexjr ohwohsrfuttusj
oheiroekrrOreixwrvoqrevotr utrqzrautexjruhwrqzrnjtowjhaj,rpcerevuerOrvuw
urtjuerohrevjraichenz,rutrqiterfnohajtrvuyj,r voevjnrOraicxwrnjenjuercfih
iaautoih,ruhwrOr icxwrtvi rvoqrevuereiiruhievjnreoqj;rpceruerfnjtjhericn
pctohjttr utreiraihtowjnrvi reirnjaiyjnrevjrtvofkrrVjrusnjjwr oevrqjrut
eirevue,rpcereixwrqjrvjr utrfjndjaexzruerurxittr vuerqjutcnjtreireu.j,
dinrevuerevjnjr jnjrteoxxrtom-uhw-e jhezrvuhwtrihrpiunw,r vi,rvuyohs
jhejnjwroheiruracntjwraihtfonuaz,rpzr voavrevjzrvuwruxxrdindjoejwrevjon
xoyjtreirevjrxu ,r icxwrpjrvunwjhjwrohroerhi rpzrwjtfjnueoih,ruhwr icxw
aunnzroerih,r.hi ohsrevuerodrevjzr jnjrtcpwcjwrevjzr icxwrpjrpnicsverei
evjrsuxxi trutrtiihrutrevjzrauqjreirJhsxuhw,rinreiruhzridrevjrJhsxotv
aixihojt,ruhwrevue,revjnjdinj,revjnjr icxwrpjrhirueeua.ohsrevjqr oevrti
tquxxrurhcqpjnrutr jr jnjk

Orqctjwrdinrtiqjreoqjrihr vuervjrvuwrtuow,ruhwrdichwroer utruryjnz
nueoihuxraihaxctoih,ruhwrevuerevjnjdinjrtiqjevohsr utreirpjrnjtixyjwrih
tfjjwoxz,rutr jxxreirwnu revjrqjhrihrpiunwroheirtiqjrthunjrdinrevjon
tcnfnotjrutreirfnjyjherevjonrxuhwohsrcfihrct,ruhwrwjtenizohsrctkrrCfih
evot,roerfnjtjhexzriaacnnjwreirqjrevuerohrurxoeexjr voxjrevjrtvof’tranj ,
 ihwjnohsr vuer utrpjaiqjridrevjonraiqnuwjtruhwridrevjrpiue,r icxw
ajneuohxzraiqjrihrtvinjrohrevjonrievjnrpiuereirxii.rdinrevjq,ruhwrevue
evjh,rfjnvuft,revjzrqosveraiqjrunqjw,ruhwrpjreiirtenihsrdinrct:revotrvj
uxxi jwreirpjrnueoihuxkrrCfihrevot,rOreixwrvoqrevjrdonterevohsr jrvuwrei
wir utreirteuyjrevjrpiuer voavrxuzrcfihrevjrpjuav,rtirevuerevjzrqosverhie
aunnzrvjnrid,ruhwreu.ohsrjyjnzevohsriceridrvjn,rxjuyjrvjnrtirdunrctjxjtt
utrhiereirpjrdoereirt oqkrrUaainwohsxz,r jr jherihrpiunw,reii.revjrunqt
 voavr jnjrxjderihrpiunwriceridrvjn,ruhwr vuejyjnrjxtjr jrdichw
evjnj— voavr utrurpieexjridrpnuhwz,ruhwruhievjnridrncq,rurdj 
potacoe-au.jt,rurvinhridrfi wjn,ruhwrursnjuerxcqfridrtcsunrohrurfojajrid
auhyutr(evjrtcsunr utrdoyjrinrtomrfichwt):ruxxr voavr utryjnzr jxaiqjrei
qj,rjtfjaouxxzrevjrpnuhwzruhwrtcsun,ridr voavrOrvuwrvuwrhihjrxjderdin
quhzrzjuntk

 vjhr jrvuwraunnojwruxxrevjtjrevohstrihrtvinjr(evjriunt,rqute,rtuox,ruhw
ncwwjnridrevjrpiuer jnjraunnojwru uzrpjdinj),r jr.hia.jwrursnjuervixjroh
vjnrpieeiq,revuerodrevjzrvuwraiqjrtenihsrjhicsvreirqutejnrct,rzjerevjz
aicxwrhieraunnzriddrevjrpiuekrrOhwjjw,roer utrhierqcavrohrqzrevicsvet
evuer jraicxwrpjrupxjreirnjaiyjnrevjrtvof;rpcerqzryoj r ut,revuerodrevjz
 jheru uzr oevicerevjrpiue,rOrwowrhierqcavrlcjteoihreirqu.jrvjnrusuohrdoe
eiraunnzrutreirevjrXjj unwrOtxuhwt,ruhwrauxxrcfihricnrdnojhwtrevj
Tfuhounwtrohrqzr uz,rdinrOrvuwrevjqrteoxxrohrqzrevicsvetk




AVUFEJNrMYOOO—EVJrTVOFrNJAIYJNJW


 voxjr jr jnjrevctrfnjfunohsricnrwjtosht,ruhwrvuwrdonte,rpzrquoh
tenjhsev,rvjuyjwrevjrpiuercfihrevjrpjuav,rtirvosvrevuerevjreowjr icxwrhie
dxiuervjnriddruervosv- uejnrqun.,ruhwrpjtowjt,rvuwrpni.jrurvixjrohrvjn
pieeiqreiirposreirpjrlcoa.xzrteiffjw,ruhwr jnjrtjerwi hrqctohsr vuer j
tvicxwrwi,r jrvjunwrevjrtvofrdonjrursch,ruhwrqu.jrur uder oevrvjnrjhtosh
utrurtoshuxrdinrevjrpiuereiraiqjrihrpiunw—pcerhirpiuerteonnjw;ruhwrevjz
donjwrtjyjnuxreoqjt,rqu.ohsrievjnrtoshuxtrdinrevjrpiuekrrUerxute,r vjh
uxxrevjonrtoshuxtruhwrdonohsrfniyjwrdncoexjtt,ruhwrevjzrdichwrevjrpiue
wowrhierteon,r jrtu revjq,rpzrevjrvjxfridrqzrsxuttjt,rvioteruhievjnrpiue
iceruhwrni rei unwtrevjrtvinj;ruhwr jrdichw,rutrevjzruffniuavjw,revue
evjnjr jnjrhirxjttrevuhrejhrqjhrohrvjn,ruhwrevuerevjzrvuwrdonjunqtr oev
evjqk

Utrevjrtvofrxuzruxqitere irxjuscjtrdniqrevjrtvinj,r jrvuwrurdcxxryoj rid
evjqrutrevjzrauqj,ruhwrurfxuohrtosverjyjhridrevjonrduajt;rpjauctjrevj
eowjrvuyohsrtjerevjqrurxoeexjreirevjrjuteridrevjrievjnrpiue,revjzrni jw
cfrchwjnrtvinj,reiraiqjreirevjrtuqjrfxuajr vjnjrevjrievjnrvuwrxuhwjw,ruhw
 vjnjrevjrpiuerxuz;rpzrevotrqjuht,rOrtuz,r jrvuwrurdcxxryoj ridrevjq,ruhw
evjraufeuohr.hj revjrfjntihtruhwravunuaejntridruxxrevjrqjhrohrevjrpiue,
idr viq,rvjrtuow,revjnjr jnjrevnjjryjnzrvihjterdjxxi t,r vi,rvjr utrtcnj,
 jnjrxjwroheirevotraihtfonuazrpzrevjrnjte,rpjohsriyjn-fi jnjwruhw
dnosvejhjw;rpcerevuerutrdinrevjrpiuet uoh,r viroertjjqtr utrevjravojd
iddoajnruqihsrevjq,ruhwruxxrevjrnjte,revjzr jnjrutricenusjictrutruhzrid
evjrtvof’tranj ,ruhwr jnjrhirwicperquwjrwjtfjnuejrohrevjonrhj 
jhejnfnotj;ruhwrejnnopxzruffnjvjhtoyjrvjr utrevuerevjzr icxwrpjreii
fi jndcxrdinrctkrrOrtqoxjwruervoq,ruhwreixwrvoqrevuerqjhrohricn
aonacqteuhajtr jnjrfuterevjrifjnueoihridrdjun;revuertjjohsruxqiterjyjnz
aihwoeoihrevueraicxwrpjr utrpjeejnrevuhrevuer voavr jr jnjrtcffitjwreirpj
oh,r jricsvereirjmfjaerevuerevjraihtjlcjhaj,r vjevjnrwjuevrinrxodj,r icxw
pjrtcnjreirpjrurwjxoyjnuhajkrrOrut.jwrvoqr vuervjrevicsveridrevj
aonacqteuhajtridrqzrxodj,ruhwr vjevjnrurwjxoyjnuhajr jnjrhier inev
yjhecnohsrdin?rr“Uhwr vjnj,rton,”rtuowrO,r“otrzicnrpjxojdridrqzrpjohs
fnjtjnyjwrvjnjrihrfcnfitjreirtuyjrzicnrxodj,r voavrjxjyuejwrzicrurxoeexj
 voxjrusi?rrDinrqzrfune,”rtuowrO,r“evjnjrtjjqtreirpjrpcerihjrevohsruqott
ohruxxrevjrfnitfjaeridroek”rr“ vuerotrevue?”rtuzrvjkrr“ vz,”rtuowrO,r“oe
ot,revuerutrzicrtuzrevjnjrunjrevnjjrinrdicnrvihjterdjxxi truqihsrevjq
 voavrtvicxwrpjrtfunjw,rvuwrevjzrpjjhruxxridrevjr oa.jwrfuneridrevjranj 
OrtvicxwrvuyjrevicsverSiw’trfniyowjhajrvuwrtohsxjwrevjqricereirwjxoyjn
evjqroheirzicnrvuhwt;rdinrwjfjhwrcfihroe,rjyjnzrquhrevueraiqjtrutvinjrot
icnri h,ruhwrtvuxxrwojrinrxoyjrutrevjzrpjvuyjreirctk”rrUtrOrtfi.jrevot
 oevrurnuotjwryioajruhwravjjndcxraichejhuhaj,rOrdichwroersnjuexz
jhaicnusjwrvoq;rtir jrtjeryosinictxzreiricnrpctohjttk

 jrvuw,rcfihrevjrdonteruffjunuhajridrevjrpiue’traiqohsrdniqrevjrtvof,
aihtowjnjwridrtjfunueohsricnrfnotihjnt;ruhwr jrvuw,rohwjjw,rtjacnjwrevjq
jddjaecuxxzkrrE iridrevjq,ridr viqrevjraufeuohr utrxjttruttcnjwrevuh
inwohunz,rOrtjher oevrDnowuz,ruhwrihjridrevjrevnjjrwjxoyjnjwrqjh,reirqz
auyj,r vjnjrevjzr jnjrnjqiejrjhicsv,ruhwriceridrwuhsjnridrpjohsrvjunwrin
wotaiyjnjw,rinridrdohwohsrevjonr uzriceridrevjr iiwtrodrevjzraicxwrvuyj
wjxoyjnjwrevjqtjxyjtkrrVjnjrevjzrxjderevjqrpichw,rpcersuyjrevjq
fniyotoiht;ruhwrfniqotjwrevjq,rodrevjzraiheohcjwrevjnjrlcojexz,reirsoyj
evjqrevjonrxopjnezrohrurwuzrinre i;rpcerevuerodrevjzrueejqfejwrevjon
jtaufjrevjzrtvicxwrpjrfcereirwjuevr oevicerqjnazkrrEvjzrfniqotjw
duoevdcxxzreirpjunrevjonraihdohjqjher oevrfueojhaj,ruhwr jnjryjnz
evuh.dcxrevuerevjzrvuwrtcavrsiiwrctusjrutreirvuyjrfniyotoihtruhwrxosve
xjderevjq;rdinrDnowuzrsuyjrevjqrauhwxjtr(tcavrutr jrquwjricntjxyjt)rdin
evjonraiqdine;ruhwrevjzrwowrhier.hi rpcerevuervjrteiiwrtjheohjxriyjnrevjq
uerevjrjhenuhajk

Evjrievjnrfnotihjntrvuwrpjeejnrctusj;re iridrevjqr jnjr.jferfohoihjw,
ohwjjw,rpjauctjrevjraufeuohr utrhierupxjreirencterevjq;rpcerevjrievjnre i
 jnjreu.jhroheirqzrtjnyoaj,rcfihrevjraufeuoh’trnjaiqqjhwueoih,ruhwrcfih
evjonrtixjqhxzrjhsusohsreirxoyjruhwrwojr oevrct;rtir oevrevjqruhwrevj
evnjjrvihjterqjhr jr jnjrtjyjhrqjh,r jxxrunqjw;ruhwrOrquwjrhirwicper j
tvicxwrpjrupxjreirwjuxr jxxrjhicsvr oevrevjrejhrevuer jnjraiqohs,
aihtowjnohsrevuerevjraufeuohrvuwrtuowrevjnjr jnjrevnjjrinrdicnrvihjterqjh
uqihsrevjqruxtikrrUtrtiihrutrevjzrsiereirevjrfxuajr vjnjrevjonrievjnrpiue
xuz,revjzrnuhrevjonrpiueroheirevjrpjuavruhwrauqjruxxrihrtvinj,rvucxohs
evjrpiuercfrudejnrevjq,r voavrOr utrsxuwreirtjj,rdinrOr utrudnuowrevjz
 icxwrnuevjnrvuyjrxjderevjrpiuerueruhruhavinrtiqjrwoteuhajrdniqrevj
tvinj,r oevrtiqjrvuhwtrohrvjnreirscunwrvjn,ruhwrtir jrtvicxwrhierpjrupxj
eirtjogjrevjrpiuekrrPjohsrihrtvinj,revjrdonterevohsrevjzrwow,revjzrnuh
uxxreirevjonrievjnrpiue;ruhwroer utrjutzreirtjjrevjzr jnjrchwjnrursnjue
tcnfnotjreirdohwrvjnrtenoffjw,rutrupiyj,ridruxxrevuer utrohrvjn,ruhwru
snjuervixjrohrvjnrpieeiqkrrUdejnrevjzrvuwrqctjwrur voxjrcfihrevot,revjz
tjercfre irinrevnjjrsnjuertvicet,rvuxxiiohsr oevruxxrevjonrqosve,reirenz
odrevjzraicxwrqu.jrevjonraiqfuhoihtrvjun;rpceruxxr utreirhirfcnfitjk
Evjhrevjzrauqjruxxraxitjrohrurnohs,ruhwrdonjwruryixxjzridrevjonrtquxx
unqt,r voavrohwjjwr jrvjunw,ruhwrevjrjavijtrquwjrevjr iiwtrnohskrrPceroe
 utruxxrihj;revitjrohrevjrauyj,r jr jnjrtcnj,raicxwrhiervjun;ruhwrevitj
ohricnr.jjfohs,revicsvrevjzrvjunwroer jxxrjhicsv,rzjerwcntersoyjrhi
uht jnreirevjqkrrEvjzr jnjrtiruteihotvjwruerevjrtcnfnotjridrevot,revue,
utrevjzreixwrctrudejn unwt,revjzrnjtixyjwreirsiruxxrihrpiunwrusuohrei
evjonrtvof,ruhwrxjerevjqr.hi revuerevjrqjhr jnjruxxrqcnwjnjw,ruhwrevj
xihs-piuerteuyjw;ruaainwohsxz,revjzroqqjwouejxzrxuchavjwrevjonrpiue
usuoh,ruhwrsieruxxridrevjqrihrpiunwk

Evjraufeuohr utrejnnopxzruqugjw,ruhwrjyjhraihdichwjw,ruerevot,rpjxojyohs
evjzr icxwrsirihrpiunwrevjrtvofrusuohruhwrtjertuox,rsoyohsrevjonraiqnuwjt
iyjnrdinrxite,ruhwrtirvjrtvicxwrteoxxrxitjrevjrtvof,r voavrvjr utroh
vifjtr jrtvicxwrvuyjrnjaiyjnjw;rpcervjr utrlcoa.xzrutrqcavrdnosvejhjwrevj
ievjnr uzk

Evjzrvuwrhierpjjhrxihsrfceriddr oevrevjrpiue,r vjhr jrfjnajoyjwrevjqruxx
aiqohsrihrtvinjrusuoh;rpcer oevrevotrhj rqjutcnjrohrevjonraihwcae,r voav
oertjjqtrevjzraihtcxejwreisjevjnrcfih,ryogkreirxjuyjrevnjjrqjhrohrevj
piue,ruhwrevjrnjtereirsirihrtvinj,ruhwrsircfroheirevjraichenzreirxii.rdin
evjonrdjxxi tkrrEvotr utrursnjuerwotuffioheqjhereirct,rdinrhi r jr jnjrue
urxittr vuereirwi,rutricnrtjogohsrevitjrtjyjhrqjhrihrtvinjr icxwrpjrhi
uwyuheusjreirctrodr jrxjerevjrpiuerjtaufj;rpjauctjrevjzr icxwrni ru uzrei
evjrtvof,ruhwrevjhrevjrnjteridrevjqr icxwrpjrtcnjreir josvruhwrtjertuox,
uhwrtiricnrnjaiyjnohsrevjrtvofr icxwrpjrxitekrrVi jyjnr jrvuwrhirnjqjwz
pcereir uoeruhwrtjjr vuerevjrottcjridrevohstrqosverfnjtjhekrrEvjrtjyjh
qjhrauqjrihrtvinj,ruhwrevjrevnjjr virnjquohjwrohrevjrpiuerfcervjnriddrei
ursiiwrwoteuhajrdniqrevjrtvinj,ruhwrauqjreiruhruhavinreir uoerdinrevjq;
tirevueroer utroqfittopxjrdinrctreiraiqjruerevjqrohrevjrpiuekrrEvitjrevue
auqjrihrtvinjr.jferaxitjreisjevjn,rqunavohsrei unwtrevjreifridrevjrxoeexj
voxxrchwjnr voavrqzrvupoeueoihrxuz;ruhwr jraicxwrtjjrevjqrfxuohxz,revicsv
evjzraicxwrhierfjnajoyjrctkrr jrtvicxwrvuyjrpjjhryjnzrsxuwrodrevjzr icxw
vuyjraiqjrhjunjnrct,rtirevuer jrqosvervuyjrdonjwruerevjq,rinrevuerevjz
 icxwrvuyjrsihjrdunevjnridd,revuer jrqosveraiqjrupniuwkrrPcer vjhrevjz
 jnjraiqjreirevjrpni ridrevjrvoxxr vjnjrevjzraicxwrtjjrursnjuer uzrohei
evjryuxxjztruhwr iiwt,r voavrxuzrei unwtrevjrhinev-juterfune,ruhwr vjnj
evjrotxuhwrxuzrxi jte,revjzrtvicejwruhwrvuxxiijwreoxxrevjzr jnjr junz;
uhwrhieraunohs,roertjjqt,reiryjhecnjrdunrdniqrevjrtvinj,rhinrdunrdniqrihj
uhievjn,revjzrtuerwi hreisjevjnrchwjnrurenjjreiraihtowjnroekrrVuwrevjz
evicsverdoereirvuyjrsihjreirtxjjfrevjnj,rutrevjrievjnrfuneridrevjqrvuw
wihj,revjzrvuwrwihjrevjrbiprdinrct;rpcerevjzr jnjreiirdcxxrid
uffnjvjhtoihtridrwuhsjnreiryjhecnjreirsireirtxjjf,revicsvrevjzraicxwrhie
ejxxr vuerevjrwuhsjnr utrevjzrvuwreirdjunk

Evjraufeuohrquwjruryjnzrbcterfnifituxreirqjrcfihrevotraihtcxeueoihrid
evjont,ryogkrevuerfjnvuftrevjzr icxwruxxrdonjruryixxjzrusuoh,rei
jhwjuyicnreirqu.jrevjonrdjxxi trvjun,ruhwrevuer jrtvicxwruxxrtuxxzrcfih
evjqrbcteruerevjrbchaecnjr vjhrevjonrfojajtr jnjruxxrwotavunsjw,ruhwrevjz
 icxwrajneuohxzrzojxw,ruhwr jrtvicxwrvuyjrevjqr oevicerpxiiwtvjwkrrO
xo.jwrevotrfnifitux,rfniyowjwroer utrwihjr voxjr jr jnjrhjunrjhicsvrei
aiqjrcfreirevjqrpjdinjrevjzraicxwrxiuwrevjonrfojajtrusuohkrrPcerevot
jyjherwowrhiervuffjh;ruhwr jrxuzrteoxxrurxihsreoqj,ryjnzronnjtixcejr vue
aicntjreireu.jkrrUerxjhsevrOreixwrevjqrevjnjr icxwrpjrhievohsrwihj,rohrqz
ifohoih,reoxxrhosve;ruhwrevjh,rodrevjzrwowrhiernjecnhreirevjrpiue,
fjnvuftr jrqosverdohwrur uzreirsjerpje jjhrevjqruhwrevjrtvinj,ruhwrti
qosverctjrtiqjrtenueusjqr oevrevjqrohrevjrpiuereirsjerevjqrihrtvinjkrr j
 uoejwrursnjuer voxj,revicsvryjnzroqfueojherdinrevjonrnjqiyohs;ruhwr jnj
yjnzrchjutzr vjh,rudejnrxihsraihtcxeueoih,r jrtu revjqruxxrteunercfruhw
qunavrwi hrei unwtrevjrtju;roertjjqtrevjzrvuwrtcavrwnjuwdcxruffnjvjhtoiht
idrevjrwuhsjnridrevjrfxuajrevuerevjzrnjtixyjwreirsirihrpiunwrevjrtvof
usuoh,rsoyjrevjonraiqfuhoihtriyjnrdinrxite,ruhwrtirsirihr oevrevjon
ohejhwjwryizusjr oevrevjrtvofk

UtrtiihrutrOrfjnajoyjwrevjqrsirei unwtrevjrtvinj,rOroqusohjwroereirpjrut
oernjuxxzr utrevuerevjzrvuwrsoyjhriyjnrevjonrtjunav,ruhwr jnjrsiohsrpua.
usuoh;ruhwrevjraufeuoh,rutrtiihrutrOreixwrvoqrqzrevicsvet,r utrnjuwzrei
toh.ruerevjruffnjvjhtoihtridroe;rpcerOrfnjtjhexzrevicsveridrurtenueusjq
eirdjeavrevjqrpua.rusuoh,ruhwr voavruht jnjwrqzrjhwreirureoeexjkrrO
inwjnjwrDnowuzruhwrevjraufeuoh’trquejreirsiriyjnrevjrxoeexjranjj.
 jte unw,rei unwtrevjrfxuajr vjnjrevjrtuyusjtrauqjrihrtvinj,r vjhrDnowuz
 utrnjtacjw,ruhwrtirtiihrutrevjzrauqjreirurxoeexjrnotohsrnichw,ruerupice
vuxdrurqoxjrwoteuhe,rOrpowrevjqrvuxxiirice,rutrxicwrutrevjzraicxw,ruhw
 uoereoxxrevjzrdichwrevjrtjuqjhrvjunwrevjq;revuerutrtiihrutrjyjnrevjz
vjunwrevjrtjuqjhruht jnrevjq,revjzrtvicxwrnjecnhroerusuoh;ruhwrevjh,
.jjfohsriceridrtosve,reu.jrurnichw,rux uztruht jnohsr vjhrevjrievjnt
vuxxiijw,reirwnu revjqrutrdunroheirevjrotxuhwruhwruqihsrevjr iiwtrut
fittopxj,ruhwrevjhr vjjxrupicerusuohreirqjrpzrtcavr uztrutrOrwonjaejw
evjqk

Evjzr jnjrbctersiohsroheirevjrpiuer vjhrDnowuzruhwrevjrquejrvuxxiijw;ruhw
evjzrfnjtjhexzrvjunwrevjq,ruhwruht jnohs,rnuhruxihsrevjrtvinjr jte unw,
ei unwtrevjryioajrevjzrvjunw,r vjhrevjzr jnjrteiffjwrpzrevjranjj.,r vjnj
evjr uejnrpjohsrcf,revjzraicxwrhiersjeriyjn,ruhwrauxxjwrdinrevjrpiuerei
aiqjrcfruhwrtjerevjqriyjn;rut,rohwjjw,rOrjmfjaejwkrr vjhrevjzrvuwrtje
evjqtjxyjtriyjn,rOriptjnyjwrevuerevjrpiuerpjohsrsihjrursiiwr uzroheirevj
anjj.,ruhw,rutroer jnj,rohrurvunpicnr oevohrevjrxuhw,revjzreii.rihjrid
evjrevnjjrqjhriceridrvjn,reirsiruxihsr oevrevjq,ruhwrxjderihxzre irohrevj
piue,rvuyohsrdutejhjwrvjnreirevjrtecqfridrurxoeexjrenjjrihrevjrtvinjk
Evotr utr vuerOr otvjwrdin;ruhwroqqjwouejxzrxjuyohsrDnowuzruhwrevj
aufeuoh’trquejreirevjonrpctohjtt,rOreii.revjrnjter oevrqj;ruhw,ranittohs
evjranjj.riceridrevjonrtosve,r jrtcnfnotjwrevjre irqjhrpjdinjrevjzr jnj
u unj—ihjridrevjqrxzohsrihrevjrtvinj,ruhwrevjrievjnrpjohsrohrevjrpiuek
Evjrdjxxi rihrtvinjr utrpje jjhrtxjjfohsruhwr u.ohs,ruhwrsiohsreirteune
cf;revjraufeuoh,r vir utrdinjqite,rnuhrohrcfihrvoq,ruhwr.hia.jwrvoqrwi h;
uhwrevjhrauxxjwricereirvoqrohrevjrpiuereirzojxw,rinrvjr utrurwjuwrquhk
Evjzrhjjwjwryjnzrdj runscqjhetreirfjntcuwjrurtohsxjrquhreirzojxw,r vjhrvj
tu rdoyjrqjhrcfihrvoqruhwrvotraiqnuwjr.hia.jwrwi h:rpjtowjt,revotr ut,roe
tjjqt,rihjridrevjrevnjjr vir jnjrhiertirvjunezrohrevjrqceohzrutrevjrnjte
idrevjranj ,ruhwrevjnjdinjr utrjutoxzrfjntcuwjwrhierihxzreirzojxw,rpce
udejn unwtreirbiohryjnzrtohajnjxzr oevrctkrrOhrevjrqjuheoqj,rDnowuzruhw
evjraufeuoh’trquejrtir jxxrquhusjwrevjonrpctohjttr oevrevjrnjterevuerevjz
wnj revjq,rpzrvuxxiiohsruhwruht jnohs,rdniqrihjrvoxxreiruhievjn,ruhwrdniq
ihjr iiwreiruhievjn,reoxxrevjzrhierihxzrvjuneoxzreonjwrevjq,rpcerxjde
evjqr vjnjrevjzr jnj,ryjnzrtcnjrevjzraicxwrhiernjuavrpua.reirevjrpiue
pjdinjroer utrwun.;ruhw,rohwjjw,revjzr jnjrvjuneoxzreonjwrevjqtjxyjt
uxti,rpzrevjreoqjrevjzrauqjrpua.reirctk

 jrvuwrhievohsrhi reirwirpcereir ueavrdinrevjqrohrevjrwun.,ruhwreirduxx
cfihrevjq,rtirutreirqu.jrtcnjr in.r oevrevjqkrrOer utrtjyjnuxrvicntrudejn
Dnowuzrauqjrpua.reirqjrpjdinjrevjzrauqjrpua.reirevjonrpiue;ruhwr jraicxw
vjunrevjrdinjqiteridrevjq,rxihsrpjdinjrevjzrauqjrlcoejrcf,rauxxohsrei
evitjrpjvohwreiraiqjruxihs;ruhwraicxwruxtirvjunrevjqruht jn,ruhwraiqfxuoh
vi rxuqjruhwreonjwrevjzr jnj,ruhwrhierupxjreiraiqjruhzrdutejn:r voavr ut
yjnzr jxaiqjrhj treirctkrrUerxjhsevrevjzrauqjrcfreirevjrpiue:rpceroerot
oqfittopxjreirjmfnjttrevjonraihdctoihr vjhrevjzrdichwrevjrpiuerdute
usnichwrohrevjranjj.,revjreowjrjppjwrice,ruhwrevjonre irqjhrsihjkrr j
aicxwrvjunrevjqrauxxrihjreiruhievjnrohrurqiterxuqjheupxjrquhhjn,rejxxohs
ihjruhievjnrevjzr jnjrsieroheiruhrjhavuhejwrotxuhw;revuerjoevjnrevjnj
 jnjrohvupoeuhetrohroe,ruhwrevjzrtvicxwruxxrpjrqcnwjnjw,rinrjxtjrevjnj
 jnjrwjyoxtruhwrtfonoetrohroe,ruhwrevjzrtvicxwrpjruxxraunnojwru uzruhw
wjyicnjwkrrEvjzrvuxxiijwrusuoh,ruhwrauxxjwrevjonre iraiqnuwjtrpzrevjon
huqjtrursnjuerquhzreoqjt;rpcerhiruht jnkrrUdejnrtiqjreoqjr jraicxwrtjj
evjq,rpzrevjrxoeexjrxosverevjnjr ut,rnchrupice,r nohsohsrevjonrvuhwtrxo.j
qjhrohrwjtfuon,ruhwrtiqjeoqjtrevjzr icxwrsiruhwrtoerwi hrohrevjrpiuerei
njterevjqtjxyjt:revjhraiqjrutvinjrusuoh,ruhwr ux.rupicerusuoh,ruhwrtirevj
tuqjrevohsriyjnrusuohkrrQzrqjhr icxwrduohrvuyjrvuwrqjrsoyjrevjqrxjuyjrei
duxxrcfihrevjqruerihajrohrevjrwun.;rpcerOr utr oxxohsreireu.jrevjqrue
tiqjruwyuheusj,rtirutreirtfunjrevjq,ruhwr.oxxrutrdj ridrevjqrutrOraicxw;
uhwrjtfjaouxxzrOr utrch oxxohsreirvugunwrevjr.oxxohsridruhzridricnrqjh,
.hi ohsrevjrievjntr jnjryjnzr jxxrunqjwkrrOrnjtixyjwreir uoe,reirtjjrod
evjzrwowrhiertjfunuej;ruhwrevjnjdinj,reirqu.jrtcnjridrevjq,rOrwnj rqz
uqpctauwjrhjunjn,ruhwrinwjnjwrDnowuzruhwrevjraufeuohreiranjjfrcfihrevjon
vuhwtruhwrdjje,rutraxitjreirevjrsnichwrutrevjzraicxw,revuerevjzrqosverhie
pjrwotaiyjnjw,ruhwrsjerutrhjunrevjqrutrevjzraicxwrfittopxzrpjdinjrevjz
iddjnjwreirdonjk

Evjzrvuwrhierpjjhrxihsrohrevuerfitecnjr vjhrevjrpiuet uoh,r vir utrevj
fnohaofuxrnohsxjuwjnridrevjrqceohz,ruhwrvuwrhi rtvi hrvoqtjxdrevjrqite
wjbjaejwruhwrwotfonoejwridruxxrevjrnjte,rauqjr ux.ohsrei unwtrevjq,r oev
e irqinjridrevjranj ;revjraufeuohr utrtirjusjnruervuyohsrevotrfnohaofux
niscjrtirqcavrohrvotrfi jn,revuervjraicxwrvunwxzrvuyjrfueojhajreirxjervoq
aiqjrtirhjunrutreirpjrtcnjridrvoq,rdinrevjzrihxzrvjunwrvotreihscjrpjdinj:
pcer vjhrevjzrauqjrhjunjn,revjraufeuohruhwrDnowuz,rteuneohsrcfrihrevjon
djje,rxjerdxzruerevjqkrrEvjrpiuet uohr utr.oxxjwrcfihrevjrtfie:revjrhjme
quhr utrtvierohrevjrpiwz,ruhwrdjxxrbcterpzrvoq,revicsvrvjrwowrhierwoj
eoxxruhrvicnrinre irudejn;ruhwrevjrevonwrnuhrdinroekrrUerevjrhiotjridrevj
donjrOroqqjwouejxzruwyuhajwr oevrqzr vixjrunqz,r voavr utrhi rjosverqjh,
yogkrqztjxd,rsjhjnuxottoqi;rDnowuz,rqzrxojcejhuhe-sjhjnux;revjraufeuoh
uhwrvotre irqjh,ruhwrevjrevnjjrfnotihjntridr unr viqr jrvuwrenctejwr oev
unqtkrr jrauqjrcfihrevjq,rohwjjw,rohrevjrwun.,rtirevuerevjzraicxwrhiertjj
icnrhcqpjn;ruhwrOrquwjrevjrquhrevjzrvuwrxjderohrevjrpiue,r vir utrhi rihj
idrct,reirauxxrevjqrpzrhuqj,reirenzrodrOraicxwrpnohsrevjqreirurfunxjz,
uhwrtirfjnvuftrqosvernjwcajrevjqreirejnqt;r voavrdjxxricerbcterutr j
wjtonjw:rdinrohwjjwroer utrjutzreirevoh.,rutrevjonraihwoeoihrevjhr ut,
evjzr icxwrpjryjnzr oxxohsreiraufoecxuejkrrTirvjrauxxtricerutrxicwrutrvj
aicxwreirihjridrevjq,r“EiqrTqoev!rrEiqrTqoev!”rrEiqrTqoevruht jnjw
oqqjwouejxz,r“OtrevuerNipohtih?”rdinroertjjqtrvjr.hj revjryioajkrrEvj
ievjnruht jnjw,r“Uz,ruz;rdinrSiw’trtu.j,rEiqrTqoev,revni rwi hrzicnrunqt
uhwrzojxw,rinrzicrunjruxxrwjuwrqjhrevotrqiqjhek”rr“ virqcter jrzojxwrei?
 vjnjrunjrevjz?”rtuztrTqoevrusuohkrr“Vjnjrevjzrunj,”rtuztrvj;r“vjnj’tricn
aufeuohruhwrdodezrqjhr oevrvoq,rvuyjrpjjhrvcheohsrzicrevjtjre irvicnt;
evjrpiuet uohrotr.oxxjw;r oxxrDnzrotr ichwjw,ruhwrOruqrurfnotihjn;ruhwrod
zicrwirhierzojxwrzicrunjruxxrxitek”rr“ oxxrevjzrsoyjrctrlcunejn,revjh?”
tuztrEiqrTqoev,r“uhwr jr oxxrzojxwk”rr“O’xxrsiruhwrut.,rodrzicrfniqotjrei
zojxw,”rtuowrNipohtih:rtirvjrut.jwrevjraufeuoh,ruhwrevjraufeuohrvoqtjxd
evjhrauxxtrice,r“Zic,rTqoev,rzicr.hi rqzryioaj;rodrzicrxuzrwi hrzicnrunqt
oqqjwouejxzruhwrtcpqoe,rzicrtvuxxrvuyjrzicnrxoyjt,ruxxrpcer oxxrUe.ohtk”

Cfihrevotr oxxrUe.ohtranojwrice,r“DinrSiw’trtu.j,raufeuoh,rsoyjrqj
lcunejn;r vuervuyjrOrwihj?rrEvjzrvuyjruxxrpjjhrutrpuwrutrO:”r voav,rpz
evjr uz,r utrhierencj;rdinroertjjqtrevotr oxxrUe.ohtr utrevjrdonterquh
evuerxuowrvixwridrevjraufeuohr vjhrevjzrdonterqceohojw,ruhwrctjwrvoq
punpunictxzrohrezohsrvotrvuhwtruhwrsoyohsrvoqrohbcnoictrxuhscusjk
Vi jyjn,revjraufeuohreixwrvoqrvjrqcterxuzrwi hrvotrunqtruerwotanjeoih,
uhwrenctereirevjrsiyjnhin’trqjnaz:rpzr voavrvjrqjuherqj,rdinrevjzruxx
auxxjwrqjrsiyjnhinkrrOhrur inw,revjzruxxrxuowrwi hrevjonrunqtruhwrpjssjw
evjonrxoyjt;ruhwrOrtjherevjrquhrevuervuwrfunxjzjwr oevrevjq,ruhwre i
qinj,r virpichwrevjqruxx;ruhwrevjhrqzrsnjuerunqzridrdodezrqjh,r voav,
 oevrevitjrevnjj,r jnjrohruxxrpcerjosve,rauqjrcfruhwrtjogjwrcfihrevjq,
uhwrcfihrevjonrpiue;rihxzrevuerOr.jferqztjxdruhwrihjrqinjriceridrtosve
dinrnjutihtridrteuejk

Icnrhjmer in.r utreirnjfuonrevjrpiue,ruhwrevoh.ridrtjogohsrevjrtvof:ruhw
utrdinrevjraufeuoh,rhi rvjrvuwrxjotcnjreirfunxjzr oevrevjq,rvj
jmfitecxuejwr oevrevjqrcfihrevjryoxxuohzridrevjonrfnuaeoajtr oevrvoq,ruhw
cfihrevjrdcnevjnr oa.jwhjttridrevjonrwjtosh,ruhwrvi rajneuohxzroerqcte
pnohsrevjqreirqotjnzruhwrwotenjttrohrevjrjhw,ruhwrfjnvuftreirevjrsuxxi tk
Evjzruxxruffjunjwryjnzrfjhoejhe,ruhwrpjssjwrvunwrdinrevjonrxoyjtkrrUtrdin
evue,rvjreixwrevjqrevjzr jnjrhiervotrfnotihjnt,rpcerevjraiqquhwjn’trid
evjrotxuhw;revuerevjzrevicsverevjzrvuwrtjervoqrihrtvinjrohrurpunnjh,
chohvupoejwrotxuhw;rpceroervuwrfxjutjwrSiwrtireirwonjaerevjqrevueroer ut
ohvupoejw,ruhwrevuerevjrsiyjnhinr utruhrJhsxotvquh;revuervjrqosvervuhs
evjqruxxrevjnj,rodrvjrfxjutjw;rpcerutrvjrvuwrsoyjhrevjqruxxrlcunejn,rvj
tcffitjwrvjr icxwrtjhwrevjqreirJhsxuhw,reirpjrwjuxer oevrevjnjrutrbcteoaj
njlconjw,rjmajferUe.oht,r viqrvjr utraiqquhwjwrpzrevjrsiyjnhinreiruwyotj
eirfnjfunjrdinrwjuev,rdinrevuervjr icxwrpjrvuhsjwrohrevjrqinhohsk

Evicsvrevotr utruxxrpcerurdoaeoihridrvotri h,rzjeroervuwroetrwjtonjw
jddjae;rUe.ohtrdjxxrcfihrvotr.hjjtreirpjsrevjraufeuohreirohejnajwjr oev
evjrsiyjnhinrdinrvotrxodj;ruhwruxxrevjrnjterpjssjwridrvoq,rdinrSiw’t
tu.j,revuerevjzrqosverhierpjrtjhereirJhsxuhwk

Oerhi riaacnnjwreirqjrevuerevjreoqjridricnrwjxoyjnuhajr utraiqj,ruhwrevue
oer icxwrpjrurqiterjutzrevohsreirpnohsrevjtjrdjxxi trohreirpjrvjunezroh
sjeeohsrfittjttoihridrevjrtvof;rtirOrnjeonjwrohrevjrwun.rdniqrevjq,revue
evjzrqosverhiertjjr vuer.ohwridrursiyjnhinrevjzrvuw,ruhwrauxxjwrevj
aufeuohreirqj;r vjhrOrauxxjw,ruerursiiwrwoteuhaj,rihjridrevjrqjhr ut
inwjnjwreirtfju.rusuoh,ruhwrtuzreirevjraufeuoh,r“Aufeuoh,revjraiqquhwjn
auxxtrdinrzic;”ruhwrfnjtjhexzrevjraufeuohrnjfxojw,r“EjxxrvotrjmajxxjhazrO
uqrbcteraiqohsk”rrEvotrqinjrfjndjaexzruqugjwrevjq,ruhwrevjzruxxrpjxojyjw
evuerevjraiqquhwjnr utrbcterpz,r oevrvotrdodezrqjhkrrCfihrevjraufeuoh
aiqohsreirqj,rOreixwrvoqrqzrfnibjaerdinrtjogohsrevjrtvof,r voavrvjrxo.jw
 ihwjndcxxzr jxx,ruhwrnjtixyjwreirfceroerohrjmjaceoihrevjrhjmerqinhohsk
Pce,rohrinwjnreirjmjacejroer oevrqinjrune,ruhwreirpjrtjacnjridrtcaajtt,rO
eixwrvoqr jrqcterwoyowjrevjrfnotihjnt,ruhwrevuervjrtvicxwrsiruhwreu.j
Ue.oht,ruhwre irqinjridrevjr interidrevjq,ruhwrtjhwrevjqrfohoihjwreirevj
auyjr vjnjrevjrievjntrxuzkrrEvotr utraiqqoeejwreirDnowuzruhwrevjre irqjh
 virauqjrihrtvinjr oevrevjraufeuohkrrEvjzraihyjzjwrevjqreirevjrauyjrutrei
urfnotih:ruhwroer ut,rohwjjw,rurwotquxrfxuaj,rjtfjaouxxzreirqjhrohrevjon
aihwoeoihkrrEvjrievjntrOrinwjnjwreirqzrpi jn,rutrOrauxxjwroe,ridr voavrO
vuyjrsoyjhrurdcxxrwjtanofeoih:ruhwrutroer utrdjhajwroh,ruhwrevjz
fohoihjw,revjrfxuajr utrtjacnjrjhicsv,raihtowjnohsrevjzr jnjrcfihrevjon
pjvuyoicnk

EirevjtjrohrevjrqinhohsrOrtjherevjraufeuoh,r vir utreirjhejnroheiru
funxjzr oevrevjq;rohrur inw,reirenzrevjq,ruhwrejxxrqjr vjevjnrvjrevicsve
evjzrqosverpjrenctejwrinrhiereirsirihrpiunwruhwrtcnfnotjrevjrtvofkrrVj
eux.jwreirevjqridrevjrohbcnzrwihjrvoq,ridrevjraihwoeoihrevjzr jnjrpnicsve
ei,ruhwrevuerevicsvrevjrsiyjnhinrvuwrsoyjhrevjqrlcunejnrdinrevjonrxoyjt
utreirevjrfnjtjheruaeoih,rzjerevuerodrevjzr jnjrtjhereirJhsxuhwrevjz
 icxwruxxrpjrvuhsjwrohravuoht;rpcerevuerodrevjzr icxwrbiohrohrtirbcteruh
ueejqferutreirnjaiyjnrevjrtvof,rvjr icxwrvuyjrevjrsiyjnhin’trjhsusjqjhe
dinrevjonrfunwihk

Uhzrihjrquzrscjttrvi rnjuwoxzrtcavrurfnifituxr icxwrpjruaajfejwrpzrqjhroh
evjonraihwoeoih;revjzrdjxxrwi hrihrevjonr.hjjtreirevjraufeuoh,ruhw
fniqotjw,r oevrevjrwjjfjteroqfnjaueoiht,revuerevjzr icxwrpjrduoevdcxrei
voqreirevjrxuterwnif,ruhwrevuerevjzrtvicxwri jrevjonrxoyjtreirvoq,ruhw
 icxwrsir oevrvoqruxxriyjnrevjr inxw;revuerevjzr icxwri hrvoqrutrurduevjn
eirevjqrutrxihsrutrevjzrxoyjwkrr“ jxx,”rtuztrevjraufeuoh,r“Orqctersiruhw
ejxxrevjrsiyjnhinr vuerzicrtuz,ruhwrtjjr vuerOrauhrwireirpnohsrvoqrei
aihtjhereiroek”rrTirvjrpnicsverqjruhruaaicheridrevjrejqfjnrvjrdichwrevjq
oh,ruhwrevuervjryjnoxzrpjxojyjwrevjzr icxwrpjrduoevdcxkrrVi jyjn,revuer j
qosverpjryjnzrtjacnj,rOreixwrvoqrvjrtvicxwrsirpua.rusuohruhwraviitjrice
evitjrdoyj,ruhwrejxxrevjq,revuerevjzrqosvertjjrvjrwowrhier uherqjh,revue
vjr icxwreu.jricerevitjrdoyjreirpjrvotruttoteuhet,ruhwrevuerevjrsiyjnhin
 icxwr.jjfrevjrievjnre i,ruhwrevjrevnjjrevuer jnjrtjherfnotihjntreirevj
autexjr(qzrauyj),rutrviteusjtrdinrevjrdowjxoezridrevitjrdoyj;ruhwrevuerod
evjzrfniyjwrchduoevdcxrohrevjrjmjaceoih,revjrdoyjrviteusjtrtvicxwrpj
vuhsjwrohravuohtruxoyjrihrevjrtvinjkrrEvotrxii.jwrtjyjnj,ruhwraihyohajw
evjqrevuerevjrsiyjnhinr utrohrjunhjte;rvi jyjn,revjzrvuwrhir uzrxjderevjq
pcereiruaajferoe;ruhwroer utrhi revjrpctohjttridrevjrfnotihjnt,rutrqcav
utridrevjraufeuoh,reirfjntcuwjrevjrievjnrdoyjreirwirevjonrwcezk

Icnrtenjhsevr utrhi revctrinwjnjwrdinrevjrjmfjwoeoih:rdonte,revjraufeuoh,
votrquej,ruhwrfuttjhsjn;rtjaihw,revjre irfnotihjntridrevjrdontersuhs,rei
 viq,rvuyohsrevjonravunuaejnrdniqrevjraufeuoh,rOrvuwrsoyjhrevjonrxopjnez,
uhwrenctejwrevjqr oevrunqt;revonw,revjrievjnre irevuerOrvuwr.jfereoxxrhi 
ohrqzrpi jn,rfohoihjw,rpcerihrevjraufeuoh’trqieoihrvuwrhi rnjxjutjw;
dicnev,revjtjrdoyjrnjxjutjwruerxute;rtirevuerevjnjr jnjre jxyjrohruxx,
pjtowjtrdoyjr jr.jferfnotihjntrohrevjrauyjrdinrviteusjtk

Orut.jwrevjraufeuohrodrvjr utr oxxohsreiryjhecnjr oevrevjtjrvuhwtrih
piunwrevjrtvof;rpcerutrdinrqjruhwrqzrquhrDnowuz,rOrwowrhierevoh.roer ut
fnifjnrdinrctreirteon,rvuyohsrtjyjhrqjhrxjderpjvohw;ruhwroer ut
jqfxizqjherjhicsvrdinrctreir.jjfrevjqrutchwjn,ruhwrtcffxzrevjqr oev
yoaecuxtkrrUtreirevjrdoyjrohrevjrauyj,rOrnjtixyjwreir.jjfrevjqrdute,rpce
Dnowuzr jherohre oajrurwuzreirevjq,reirtcffxzrevjqr oevrhjajttunojt;ruhw
Orquwjrevjrievjnre iraunnzrfniyotoihtreirurajneuohrwoteuhaj,r vjnjrDnowuz
 utreireu.jrevjqk

 vjhrOrtvi jwrqztjxdreirevjre irviteusjt,roer utr oevrevjraufeuoh,r vi
eixwrevjqrOr utrevjrfjntihrevjrsiyjnhinrvuwrinwjnjwreirxii.rudejnrevjq;
uhwrevueroer utrevjrsiyjnhin’trfxjutcnjrevjzrtvicxwrhierteonruhz vjnjrpce
pzrqzrwonjaeoih;revuerodrevjzrwow,revjzr icxwrpjrdjeavjwroheirevjrautexj,
uhwrpjrxuowrohroniht:rtirevuerutr jrhjyjnrtcddjnjwrevjqreirtjjrqjrut
siyjnhin,rOrhi ruffjunjwrutruhievjnrfjntih,ruhwrtfi.jridrevjrsiyjnhin,
evjrsunnotih,revjrautexj,ruhwrevjrxo.j,rcfihruxxriaautoihtk

Evjraufeuohrhi rvuwrhirwoddoacxezrpjdinjrvoq,rpcereirdcnhotvrvotre i
piuet,rteifrevjrpnjuavridrihj,ruhwrquhrevjqkrrVjrquwjrvotrfuttjhsjn
aufeuohridrihj,r oevrdicnridrevjrqjh;ruhwrvoqtjxd,rvotrquej,ruhwrdoyj
qinj,r jherohrevjrievjn;ruhwrevjzraihenoyjwrevjonrpctohjttryjnzr jxx,rdin
evjzrauqjrcfreirevjrtvofrupicerqowhosvekrrUtrtiihrutrevjzrauqjr oevoh
auxxridrevjrtvof,rvjrquwjrNipohtihrvuoxrevjq,ruhwrejxxrevjqrevjzrvuw
pnicsveriddrevjrqjhruhwrevjrpiue,rpcerevueroer utrurxihsreoqjrpjdinjrevjz
vuwrdichwrevjq,ruhwrevjrxo.j,rvixwohsrevjqrohruravuereoxxrevjzrauqjrei
evjrtvof’trtowj;r vjhrevjraufeuohruhwrevjrquejrjhejnohsrdonter oevrevjon
unqt,roqqjwouejxzr.hia.jwrwi hrevjrtjaihwrquejruhwraunfjhejnr oevrevj
pcee-jhwridrevjonrqct.jet,rpjohsryjnzrduoevdcxxzrtjaihwjwrpzrevjonrqjh;
evjzrtjacnjwruxxrevjrnjterevuer jnjrcfihrevjrquohruhwrlcunejnrwja.t,ruhw
pjsuhreirdutejhrevjrvueavjt,reir.jjfrevjqrwi hrevuer jnjrpjxi ;r vjhrevj
ievjnrpiueruhwrevjonrqjh,rjhejnohsruerevjrdinjavuoht,rtjacnjwrevj
dinjautexjridrevjrtvof,ruhwrevjrtaceexjr voavr jherwi hroheirevj
aii.-niiq,rqu.ohsrevnjjrqjhrevjzrdichwrevjnjrfnotihjntkrr vjhrevotr ut
wihj,ruhwruxxrtudjrcfihrwja.,revjraufeuohrinwjnjwrevjrquej,r oevrevnjj
qjh,reirpnju.roheirevjrnichw-victj,r vjnjrevjrhj rnjpjxraufeuohrxuz,r vi,
vuyohsreu.jhrevjruxunq,rvuwrsiercf,ruhwr oevre irqjhruhwrurpizrvuwrsie
donjunqtrohrevjonrvuhwt;ruhwr vjhrevjrquej,r oevrurani ,rtfxoerifjhrevj
wiin,revjrhj raufeuohruhwrvotrqjhrdonjwrpixwxzruqihsrevjq,ruhwr ichwjw
evjrquejr oevrurqct.jerpuxx,r voavrpni.jrvotrunq,ruhwr ichwjwre irqinjrid
evjrqjh,rpcer.oxxjwrhipiwzkrrEvjrquej,rauxxohsrdinrvjxf,rnctvjw,rvi jyjn,
oheirevjrnichw-victj,r ichwjwrutrvjr ut,ruhw,r oevrvotrfoteix,rtvierevj
hj raufeuohrevnicsvrevjrvjuw,revjrpcxxjerjhejnohsruervotrqicev,ruhwrauqj
icerusuohrpjvohwrihjridrvotrjunt,rtirevuervjrhjyjnrtfi.jrur inwrqinj:
cfihr voavrevjrnjterzojxwjw,ruhwrevjrtvofr utreu.jhrjddjaecuxxz,r oevice
uhzrqinjrxoyjtrxitek

Utrtiihrutrevjrtvofr utrevctrtjacnjw,revjraufeuohrinwjnjwrtjyjhrschtrei
pjrdonjw,r voavr utrevjrtoshuxrusnjjwrcfihr oevrqjreirsoyjrqjrhieoajrid
votrtcaajtt,r voav,rzicrquzrpjrtcnj,rOr utryjnzrsxuwreirvjun,rvuyohsrtue
 ueavohsrcfihrevjrtvinjrdinroereoxxrhjunre iri’axia.rohrevjrqinhohsk
Vuyohsrevctrvjunwrevjrtoshuxrfxuohxz,rOrxuowrqjrwi h;ruhwroervuyohsrpjjh
urwuzridrsnjuerdueoscjreirqj,rOrtxjferyjnzrtichw,reoxxrOr utrtcnfnotjw
 oevrevjrhiotjridrursch;ruhwrfnjtjhexzrteuneohsrcf,rOrvjunwrurquhrauxxrqj
pzrevjrhuqjridr“Siyjnhin!rrSiyjnhin!”ruhwrfnjtjhexzrOr.hj revjraufeuoh’t
yioaj;r vjh,raxoqpohsrcfreirevjreifridrevjrvoxx,revjnjrvjrteiiw,ruhw,
fioheohsreirevjrtvof,rvjrjqpnuajwrqjrohrvotrunqt,r“Qzrwjunrdnojhwruhw
wjxoyjnjn,”rtuztrvj,r“evjnj’trzicnrtvof;rdinrtvjrotruxxrzicnt,ruhwrtirunj
 j,ruhwruxxrevuerpjxihsreirvjnk”rrOrauterqzrjzjtreirevjrtvof,ruhwrevjnj
tvjrniwj,r oevohrxoeexjrqinjrevuhrvuxdrurqoxjridrevjrtvinj;rdinrevjzrvuw
 josvjwrvjnruhavinrutrtiihrutrevjzr jnjrqutejntridrvjn,ruhw,revjr juevjn
pjohsrduon,rvuwrpnicsvervjnreiruhruhavinrbcterusuohterevjrqicevridrevj
xoeexjranjj.;ruhwrevjreowjrpjohsrcf,revjraufeuohrvuwrpnicsverevjrfohhuaj
ohrhjunrevjrfxuajr vjnjrOrvuwrdonterxuhwjwrqzrnudet,ruhwrtirxuhwjwrbcte
uerqzrwiinkrrOr utruerdonternjuwzreirtoh.rwi hr oevrevjrtcnfnotj;rdinrO
tu rqzrwjxoyjnuhaj,rohwjjw,ryotopxzrfceroheirqzrvuhwt,ruxxrevohstrjutz,
uhwrurxunsjrtvofrbcternjuwzreiraunnzrqjru uzr voevjnrOrfxjutjwreirsikrrUe
donte,rdinrtiqjreoqj,rOr utrhierupxjreiruht jnrvoqrihjr inw;rpcerutrvj
vuwreu.jhrqjrohrvotrunqtrOrvjxwrduterpzrvoq,rinrOrtvicxwrvuyjrduxxjhrei
evjrsnichwkrrVjrfjnajoyjwrevjrtcnfnotj,ruhwroqqjwouejxzrfcxxjwrurpieexj
iceridrvotrfia.jeruhwrsuyjrqjrurwnuqridrainwoux,r voavrvjrvuwrpnicsverih
fcnfitjrdinrqjkrrUdejnrOrvuwrwnch.roe,rOrtuerwi hrcfihrevjrsnichw;ruhw
evicsvroerpnicsverqjreirqztjxd,rzjeroer utrursiiwr voxjrpjdinjrOraicxw
tfju.rur inwreirvoqkrrUxxrevotreoqjrevjrfiinrquhr utrohrutrsnjueruh
jateutzrutrO,rihxzrhierchwjnruhzrtcnfnotjrutrOr ut;ruhwrvjrtuowru
evictuhwr.ohwruhwrejhwjnrevohstreirqj,reiraiqfitjruhwrpnohsrqjreirqztjxd;
pcertcavr utrevjrdxiiwridrbizrohrqzrpnjute,revueroerfceruxxrqzrtfonoet
oheiraihdctoih:ruerxuteroerpni.jriceroheirejunt,ruhwrohrurxoeexjr voxj
udejnrOrnjaiyjnjwrqzrtfjjav;rOrevjhreii.rqzrecnh,ruhwrjqpnuajwrvoqrutrqz
wjxoyjnjn,ruhwr jrnjbioajwreisjevjnkrrOreixwrvoqrOrxii.jwrcfihrvoqrutru
quhrtjherpzrVjuyjhreirwjxoyjnrqj,ruhwrevuerevjr vixjrenuhtuaeoihrtjjqjw
eirpjruravuohridr ihwjnt;revuertcavrevohstrutrevjtjr jnjrevjrejteoqihojt
 jrvuwridrurtjanjervuhwridrFniyowjhajrsiyjnhohsrevjr inxw,ruhwruh
jyowjhajrevuerevjrjzjridruhrohdohoejrFi jnraicxwrtjunavroheirevjrnjqiejte
ainhjnridrevjr inxw,ruhwrtjhwrvjxfreirevjrqotjnupxjr vjhjyjnrVjrfxjutjwk
Ordinsierhiereirxodercfrqzrvjunerohrevuh.dcxhjttreirVjuyjh;ruhwr vue
vjuneraicxwrdinpjunreirpxjttrVoq,r virvuwrhierihxzrohrurqonuacxictrquhhjn
fniyowjwrdinrqjrohrtcavrur oxwjnhjtt,ruhwrohrtcavrurwjtixuejraihwoeoih,
pcerdniqr viqrjyjnzrwjxoyjnuhajrqcterux uztrpjrua.hi xjwsjwreirfniajjwk

 vjhr jrvuwreux.jwrur voxj,revjraufeuohreixwrqjrvjrvuwrpnicsverqjrtiqj
xoeexjrnjdnjtvqjhe,rtcavrutrevjrtvofruddinwjw,ruhwrtcavrutrevjr njeavjt
evuervuwrpjjhrtirxihsrvotrqutejntrvuwrhierfxchwjnjwrvoqridkrrCfihrevot,
vjrauxxjwruxicwreirevjrpiue,ruhwrpuwjrvotrqjhrpnohsrevjrevohstrutvinj
evuer jnjrdinrevjrsiyjnhin;ruhw,rohwjjw,roer utrurfnjtjherutrodrOrvuw
pjjhrihjrevuer utrhiereirpjraunnojwru uzr oevrevjq,rpcerutrodrOrvuwrpjjh
eirw jxxrcfihrevjrotxuhwrteoxxkrrDonte,rvjrvuwrpnicsverqjrurautjrid
pieexjtrdcxxridrjmajxxjherainwouxr uejnt,rtomrxunsjrpieexjtridrQuwjonu
 ohjr(evjrpieexjtrvjxwre irlcunetrjuav),re irfichwtridrjmajxxjhersiiw
eipuaai,re jxyjrsiiwrfojajtridrevjrtvof’trpjjd,ruhwrtomrfojajtridrfin.,
 oevrurpusridrfjut,ruhwrupicerurvchwnjw- josveridrpotacoe;rvjruxti
pnicsverqjrurpimridrtcsun,rurpimridrdxicn,rurpusrdcxxridrxjqiht,ruhwre i
pieexjtridrxoqj-bcoaj,ruhwrupchwuhajridrievjnrevohstkrrPcerpjtowjtrevjtj,
uhwr vuer utrurevictuhwreoqjtrqinjrctjdcxreirqj,rvjrpnicsverqjrtomrhj 
axjuhrtvonet,rtomryjnzrsiiwrhja.axievt,re irfuonridrsxiyjt,rihjrfuonrid
tvijt,rurvue,ruhwrihjrfuonridrteia.ohst,r oevruryjnzrsiiwrtcoeridraxievjt
idrvotri h,r voavrvuwrpjjhr inhrpceryjnzrxoeexj:rohrur inw,rvjraxievjwrqj
dniqrvjuwreirdiiekrrOer utruryjnzr.ohwruhwrusnjjupxjrfnjtjhe,rutruhzrihj
quzroqusohj,reirihjrohrqzraonacqteuhajt,rpcerhjyjnr utruhzevohsrohrevj
 inxwridrevuer.ohwrtirchfxjutuhe,ru . unw,ruhwrchjutzrutroer utreirqjrei
 junrtcavraxievjtruerdontek

Udejnrevjtjrajnjqihojtr jnjrfute,ruhwrudejnruxxrvotrsiiwrevohstr jnj
pnicsveroheirqzrxoeexjrufuneqjhe,r jrpjsuhreiraihtcxer vuer utreirpjrwihj
 oevrevjrfnotihjntr jrvuw;rdinroer utr inevraihtowjnohsr vjevjnr jrqosve
yjhecnjreireu.jrevjqr oevrctrinrhi,rjtfjaouxxzre iridrevjq,r viqrvjr.hj 
eirpjrohainnosopxjruhwrnjdnuaeinzreirevjrxuterwjsnjj;ruhwrevjraufeuoh
tuowrvjr.hj revjzr jnjrtcavrniscjtrevuerevjnjr utrhiripxosohsrevjq,ruhw
odrvjrwowraunnzrevjqru uz,roerqcterpjrohroniht,rutrquxjduaeint,reirpj
wjxoyjnjwriyjnreirbcteoajruerevjrdonterJhsxotvraixihzrvjraicxwraiqjrei;
uhwrOrdichwrevuerevjraufeuohrvoqtjxdr utryjnzruhmoictrupiceroekrrCfih
evot,rOreixwrvoqrevue,rodrvjrwjtonjwroe,rOr icxwrchwjneu.jreirpnohsrevj
e irqjhrvjrtfi.jridreirqu.jroerevjonri hrnjlcjterevuervjrtvicxwrxjuyj
evjqrcfihrevjrotxuhwkrr“Ortvicxwrpjryjnzrsxuwridrevue,”rtuztrevjraufeuoh,
“ oevruxxrqzrvjunek”rr“ jxx,”rtuztrO,r“Or oxxrtjhwrdinrevjqrcfruhwreux.
 oevrevjqrdinrzick”rrTirOrauctjwrDnowuzruhwrevjre irviteusjt,rdinrevjz
 jnjrhi rwotavunsjw,revjonraiqnuwjtrvuyohsrfjndinqjwrevjonrfniqotj;rO
tuz,rOrauctjwrevjqreirsireirevjrauyj,ruhwrpnohsrcfrevjrdoyjrqjh,rfohoihjw
utrevjzr jnj,reirevjrpi jn,ruhwr.jjfrevjqrevjnjreoxxrOrauqjkrrUdejnrtiqj
eoqj,rOrauqjrevoevjnrwnjttjwrohrqzrhj rvupoe;ruhwrhi rOr utrauxxjw
siyjnhinrusuohkrrPjohsruxxrqje,ruhwrevjraufeuohr oevrqj,rOrauctjwrevjrqjh
eirpjrpnicsverpjdinjrqj,ruhwrOreixwrevjqrOrvuwrsierurdcxxruaaicherid
evjonryoxxuohictrpjvuyoicnreirevjraufeuoh,ruhwrvi revjzrvuwrnchru uzr oev
evjrtvof,ruhwr jnjrfnjfunohsreiraiqqoerdcnevjnrnippjnojt,rpcerevue
Fniyowjhajrvuwrjhthunjwrevjqrohrevjonri hr uzt,ruhwrevuerevjzr jnjrduxxjh
oheirevjrfoer voavrevjzrvuwrwcsrdinrievjntkrrOrxjerevjqr.hi revuerpzrqz
wonjaeoihrevjrtvofrvuwrpjjhrtjogjw;revuertvjrxuzrhi rohrevjrniuw;ruhw
evjzrqosvertjjrpz-uhw-pzrevuerevjonrhj raufeuohrvuwrnjajoyjwrevjrnj unw
idrvotryoxxuohz,ruhwrevuerevjzr icxwrtjjrvoqrvuhsohsruerevjrzunw-unq;
evue,rutreirevjq,rOr uhejwreir.hi r vuerevjzrvuwreirtuzr vzrOrtvicxwrhie
jmjacejrevjqrutrfonuejtreu.jhrohrevjrduae,rutrpzrqzraiqqottoihrevjzraicxw
hierwicperpcerOrvuwrucevinoezrtireirwik

Ihjridrevjqruht jnjwrohrevjrhuqjridrevjrnjte,revuerevjzrvuwrhievohsrei
tuzrpcerevot,revuer vjhrevjzr jnjreu.jhrevjraufeuohrfniqotjwrevjqrevjon
xoyjt,ruhwrevjzrvcqpxzroqfxinjwrqzrqjnazkrrPcerOreixwrevjqrOr.hj rhie
 vuerqjnazreirtvi revjq;rdinrutrdinrqztjxd,rOrvuwrnjtixyjwreirlcoerevj
otxuhwr oevruxxrqzrqjh,ruhwrvuwreu.jhrfuttusjr oevrevjraufeuohreirsirei
Jhsxuhw;ruhwrutrdinrevjraufeuoh,rvjraicxwrhieraunnzrevjqreirJhsxuhwrievjn
evuhrutrfnotihjntrohroniht,reirpjrenojwrdinrqceohzruhwrnchhohsru uzr oev
evjrtvof;revjraihtjlcjhajridr voav,revjzrqcterhjjwtr.hi ,r icxwrpjrevj
suxxi t;rtirevuerOraicxwrhierejxxr vuer utrpjterdinrevjq,rchxjttrevjzrvuw
urqohwreireu.jrevjonrduejrohrevjrotxuhwkrrOdrevjzrwjtonjwrevue,rutrOrvuw
xopjnezreirxjuyjrevjrotxuhw,rOrvuwrtiqjrohaxohueoihreirsoyjrevjqrevjon
xoyjt,rodrevjzrevicsverevjzraicxwrtvoderihrtvinjkrrEvjzrtjjqjwryjnz
evuh.dcxrdinroe,ruhwrtuowrevjzr icxwrqcavrnuevjnryjhecnjreirteuzrevjnj
evuhrpjraunnojwreirJhsxuhwreirpjrvuhsjwkrrTirOrxjderoerihrevuerottcjk

Vi jyjn,revjraufeuohrtjjqjwreirqu.jrtiqjrwoddoacxezridroe,rutrodrvjrwcnte
hierxjuyjrevjqrevjnjkrrCfihrevotrOrtjjqjwrurxoeexjruhsnzr oevrevj
aufeuoh,ruhwreixwrvoqrevuerevjzr jnjrqzrfnotihjnt,rhiervot;ruhwrevue
tjjohsrOrvuwriddjnjwrevjqrtirqcavrduyicn,rOr icxwrpjrutrsiiwrutrqzr inw;
uhwrevuerodrvjrwowrhierevoh.rdoereiraihtjhereiroerOr icxwrtjerevjqrue
xopjnez,rutrOrdichwrevjq:ruhwrodrvjrwowrhierxo.jroervjrqosvereu.jrevjq
usuohrodrvjraicxwraueavrevjqkrrCfihrevotrevjzruffjunjwryjnzrevuh.dcx,ruhw
Oruaainwohsxzrtjerevjqruerxopjnez,ruhwrpuwjrevjqrnjeonjroheirevjr iiwt,
eirevjrfxuajr vjhajrevjzrauqj,ruhwrOr icxwrxjuyjrevjqrtiqjrdonjunqt,rtiqj
uqqchoeoih,ruhwrtiqjrwonjaeoihtrvi revjzrtvicxwrxoyjryjnzr jxxrodrevjz
evicsverdoekrrCfihrevotrOrfnjfunjwreirsirihrpiunwrevjrtvof;rpcereixwrevj
aufeuohrOr icxwrteuzrevuerhosvereirfnjfunjrqzrevohst,ruhwrwjtonjwrvoqrei
sirihrpiunwrohrevjrqjuheoqj,ruhwr.jjfruxxrnosverohrevjrtvof,ruhwrtjhwrevj
piuerihrtvinjrhjmerwuzrdinrqj;rinwjnohsrvoq,rueruxxrjyjhet,reirauctjrevj
hj raufeuoh,r vir utr.oxxjw,reirpjrvuhsjwruerevjrzunw-unq,revuerevjtjrqjh
qosvertjjrvoqk

 vjhrevjraufeuohr utrsihjrOrtjherdinrevjrqjhrcfreirqjreirqzrufuneqjhe,
uhwrjhejnjwrtjnoictxzroheirwotaicntjr oevrevjqrihrevjonraonacqteuhajtkrrO
eixwrevjqrOrevicsverevjzrvuwrquwjrurnosveravioaj;revuerodrevjraufeuohrvuw
aunnojwrevjqru uzrevjzr icxwrajneuohxzrpjrvuhsjwkrrOrtvi jwrevjqrevjrhj 
aufeuohrvuhsohsruerevjrzunw-unqridrevjrtvof,ruhwreixwrevjqrevjzrvuw
hievohsrxjttreirjmfjaek

 vjhrevjzrvuwruxxrwjaxunjwrevjonr oxxohshjttreirteuz,rOrevjhreixwrevjqrO
 icxwrxjerevjqroheirevjrteinzridrqzrxoyohsrevjnj,ruhwrfcerevjqroheirevj
 uzridrqu.ohsroerjutzreirevjqkrrUaainwohsxz,rOrsuyjrevjqrevjr vixj
voteinzridrevjrfxuaj,ruhwridrqzraiqohsreiroe;rtvi jwrevjqrqz
dineodoaueoiht,revjr uzrOrquwjrqzrpnjuw,rfxuhejwrqzrainh,racnjwrqz
snufjt;ruhw,rohrur inw,ruxxrevuer utrhjajttunzreirqu.jrevjqrjutzkrrOreixw
evjqrevjrteinzruxtiridrevjrtjyjhejjhrTfuhounwtrevuer jnjreirpjrjmfjaejw,
dinr viqrOrxjderurxjeejn,ruhwrquwjrevjqrfniqotjreirenjuerevjqrohraiqqih
 oevrevjqtjxyjtkrrVjnjroerquzrpjrhiejwrevuerevjraufeuoh,r virvuwroh.rih
piunw,r utrsnjuexzrtcnfnotjwrevuerOrhjyjnrvoercfihrur uzridrqu.ohsroh.rid
avunaiuxruhwr uejn,rinridrtiqjevohsrjxtj,rutrOrvuwrwihjrevohstrqcavrqinj
woddoacxek

Orxjderevjqrqzrdonjunqt—yogkrdoyjrqct.jet,revnjjrdi xohs-fojajt,ruhw
evnjjrt inwtkrrOrvuwrupiyjrurpunnjxruhwrurvuxdridrfi wjnrxjde;rdinrudejn
evjrdonterzjunrinre irOrctjwrpcerxoeexj,ruhwr utejwrhihjkrrOrsuyjrevjqru
wjtanofeoihridrevjr uzrOrquhusjwrevjrsiuet,ruhwrwonjaeoihtreirqox.ruhw
dueejhrevjq,ruhwreirqu.jrpievrpceejnruhwravjjtjkrrOhrur inw,rOrsuyjrevjq
jyjnzrfuneridrqzri hrteinz;ruhwreixwrevjqrOrtvicxwrfnjyuoxr oevrevj
aufeuohreirxjuyjrevjqre irpunnjxtridrschfi wjnrqinj,ruhwrtiqj
sunwjh-tjjwt,r voavrOreixwrevjqrOr icxwrvuyjrpjjhryjnzrsxuwridkrrUxti,rO
suyjrevjqrevjrpusridrfjutr voavrevjraufeuohrvuwrpnicsverqjreirjue,ruhw
puwjrevjqrpjrtcnjreirti ruhwrohanjutjrevjqk




AVUFEJNrMOM—NJECNHrEIrJHSXUHW


VuyohsrwihjruxxrevotrOrxjderevjqrevjrhjmerwuz,ruhwr jherihrpiunwrevj
tvofkrr jrfnjfunjwroqqjwouejxzreirtuox,rpcerwowrhier josvrevuerhosvek
Evjrhjmerqinhohsrjunxz,re iridrevjrdoyjrqjhrauqjrt oqqohsreirevjrtvof’t
towj,ruhwrqu.ohsrevjrqiterxuqjheupxjraiqfxuoheridrevjrievjnrevnjj,rpjssjw
eirpjreu.jhroheirevjrtvofrdinrSiw’trtu.j,rdinrevjzrtvicxwrpjrqcnwjnjw,
uhwrpjssjwrevjraufeuohreireu.jrevjqrihrpiunw,revicsvrvjrvuhsjwrevjq
oqqjwouejxzkrrCfihrevotrevjraufeuohrfnjejhwjwreirvuyjrhirfi jnr oevice
qj;rpcerudejnrtiqjrwoddoacxez,ruhwrudejnrevjonrtixjqhrfniqotjtrid
uqjhwqjhe,revjzr jnjreu.jhrihrpiunw,ruhwr jnj,rtiqjreoqjrudejn,rtichwxz
 voffjwruhwrfoa.xjw;rudejnr voavrevjzrfniyjwryjnzrvihjteruhwrlcoje
djxxi tk

Tiqjreoqjrudejnrevot,revjrpiuer utrinwjnjwrihrtvinj,revjreowjrpjohsrcf,
 oevrevjrevohstrfniqotjwreirevjrqjh;reir voavrevjraufeuoh,ruerqz
ohejnajttoih,rauctjwrevjonravjtetruhwraxievjtreirpjruwwjw,r voavrevjz
eii.,ruhwr jnjryjnzrevuh.dcxrdinkrrOruxtirjhaicnusjwrevjq,rpzrejxxohs
evjqrevuerodroerxuzrohrqzrfi jnreirtjhwruhzryjttjxreireu.jrevjqroh,rO
 icxwrhierdinsjerevjqk

 vjhrOreii.rxjuyjridrevotrotxuhw,rOraunnojwrihrpiunw,rdinrnjxoat,revj
snjuersiue-t.ohraufrOrvuwrquwj,rqzrcqpnjxxu,ruhwrihjridrqzrfunniet;ruxti,
Ordinsierhiereireu.jrevjrqihjzrOrdinqjnxzrqjheoihjw,r voavrvuwrxuohrpzrqj
tirxihsrctjxjttrevueroer utrsni hrnctezrinreunhotvjw,ruhwraicxwrvunwxz
futtrdinrtoxyjnreoxxroervuwrpjjhrurxoeexjrncppjwruhwrvuhwxjw,rutruxtirevj
qihjzrOrdichwrohrevjr nja.ridrevjrTfuhotvrtvofkrrUhwrevctrOrxjderevj
otxuhw,revjr19evridrWjajqpjn,rutrOrdichwrpzrevjrtvof’truaaiche,rohrevj
zjunr1686,rudejnrOrvuwrpjjhrcfihroerjosve-uhw-e jhezrzjunt,re irqihevt,
uhwrhohjejjhrwuzt;rpjohsrwjxoyjnjwrdniqrevotrtjaihwraufeoyoezrevjrtuqj
wuzridrevjrqihevrevuerOrdonterquwjrqzrjtaufjrohrevjrxihs-piuerdniqruqihs
evjrQiintridrTuxxjjkrrOhrevotryjttjx,rudejnrurxihsryizusj,rOrunnoyjwroh
Jhsxuhwrevjr11evridrBchj,rohrevjrzjunr1687,rvuyohsrpjjhrevonez-doyjrzjunt
uptjhek

 vjhrOrauqjreirJhsxuhwrOr utrutrfjndjaerurtenuhsjnreiruxxrevjr inxwrutrod
Orvuwrhjyjnrpjjhr.hi hrevjnjkrrQzrpjhjduaeinruhwrduoevdcxrtej unw,r viqrO
vuwrxjderqzrqihjzrohrencter oev,r utruxoyj,rpcervuwrvuwrsnjuerqotdinechjt
ohrevjr inxw;r utrpjaiqjrur owi revjrtjaihwreoqj,ruhwryjnzrxi rohrevj
 inxwkrrOrquwjrvjnryjnzrjutzrutreir vuertvjri jwrqj,ruttcnohsrvjnrOr icxw
soyjrvjnrhirenicpxj;rpce,rihrevjraihenunz,rohrsnueoecwjrdinrvjnrdinqjn
aunjruhwrduoevdcxhjttreirqj,rOrnjxojyjwrvjnrutrqzrxoeexjrteia.r icxw
uddinw;r voavruerevuereoqjr icxw,rohwjjw,ruxxi rqjreirwirpcerxoeexjrdin
vjn;rpcerOruttcnjwrvjnrOr icxwrhjyjnrdinsjervjnrdinqjnr.ohwhjttreirqj;
hinrwowrOrdinsjervjnr vjhrOrvuwrtcddoaojhereirvjxfrvjn,rutrtvuxxrpj
iptjnyjwrohroetrfnifjnrfxuajkrrOr jherwi hrudejn unwtroheirZin.tvonj;rpce
qzrduevjnr utrwjuw,ruhwrqzrqievjnruhwruxxrevjrduqoxzrjmeohae,rjmajferevue
Ordichwre irtotejnt,ruhwre iridrevjravoxwnjhridrihjridrqzrpnievjnt;ruhw
utrOrvuwrpjjhrxihsrusirsoyjhriyjnrdinrwjuw,revjnjrvuwrpjjhrhirfniyotoih
quwjrdinrqj;rtirevue,rohrur inw,rOrdichwrhievohsreirnjxojyjrinruttoterqj;
uhwrevuerevjrxoeexjrqihjzrOrvuwr icxwrhierwirqcavrdinrqjrutreirtjeexohs
ohrevjr inxwk

Orqjer oevrihjrfojajridrsnueoecwjrohwjjw,r voavrOrwowrhierjmfjae;ruhw
evotr ut,revuerevjrqutejnridrevjrtvof,r viqrOrvuwrtirvuffoxzrwjxoyjnjw,
uhwrpzrevjrtuqjrqjuhtrtuyjwrevjrtvofruhwraunsi,rvuyohsrsoyjhruryjnz
vuhwtiqjruaaichereirevjri hjntridrevjrquhhjnrvi rOrvuwrtuyjwrevjrxoyjtrid
evjrqjhruhwrevjrtvof,revjzrohyoejwrqjreirqjjerevjqruhwrtiqjrievjn
qjnavuhetraihajnhjw,ruhwruxxreisjevjnrquwjrqjruryjnzrvuhwtiqjraiqfxoqjhe
cfihrevjrtcpbjae,ruhwrurfnjtjheridruxqiter£200rtejnxohsk

Pcerudejnrqu.ohsrtjyjnuxrnjdxjaeoihtrcfihrevjraonacqteuhajtridrqzrxodj,
uhwrvi rxoeexjr uzrevotr icxwrsirei unwtrtjeexohsrqjrohrevjr inxw,rO
njtixyjwreirsireirXotpih,ruhwrtjjrodrOrqosverhieraiqjruertiqjrohdinqueoih
idrevjrteuejridrqzrfxuheueoihrohrevjrPnugoxt,ruhwridr vuer utrpjaiqjrid
qzrfunehjn,r vi,rOrvuwrnjutihreirtcffitj,rvuwrtiqjrzjuntrfutersoyjhrqj
iyjnrdinrwjuwkrr oevrevotryoj rOreii.rtvoffohsrdinrXotpih,r vjnjrO
unnoyjwrohrUfnoxrdixxi ohs,rqzrquhrDnowuzruaaiqfuhzohsrqjryjnzrvihjtexz
ohruxxrevjtjrnuqpxohst,ruhwrfniyohsrurqiterduoevdcxrtjnyuhercfihruxx
iaautoihtkrr vjhrOrauqjreirXotpih,rOrdichwrice,rpzrohlconz,ruhwreirqz
funeoacxunrtueotduaeoih,rqzrixwrdnojhw,revjraufeuohridrevjrtvofr virdonte
eii.rqjrcfruertjuriddrevjrtvinjridrUdnoaukrrVjr utrhi rsni hrixw,ruhwrvuw
xjderiddrsiohsreirtju,rvuyohsrfcervotrtih,r vir utrdunrdniqrurzichsrquh,
oheirvotrtvof,ruhwr virteoxxrctjwrevjrPnugoxrenuwjkrrEvjrixwrquhrwowrhie
.hi rqj,ruhwrohwjjwrOrvunwxzr.hj rvoqkrrPcerOrtiihrpnicsvervoqreirqz
njqjqpnuhaj,ruhwrutrtiihrpnicsverqztjxdreirvotrnjqjqpnuhaj,r vjhrOreixw
voqr virOr utk

Udejnrtiqjrfuttoihuejrjmfnjttoihtridrevjrixwrualcuoheuhajrpje jjhrct,rO
ohlconjw,rzicrquzrpjrtcnj,rudejnrqzrfxuheueoihruhwrqzrfunehjnkrrEvjrixw
quhreixwrqjrvjrvuwrhierpjjhrohrevjrPnugoxtrdinrupicerhohjrzjunt;rpcerevue
vjraicxwruttcnjrqjrevuer vjhrvjrauqjru uzrqzrfunehjnr utrxoyohs,rpcerevj
enctejjtr viqrOrvuwrbiohjwr oevrvoqreireu.jraishotuhajridrqzrfuner jnj
pievrwjuw:revue,rvi jyjn,rvjrpjxojyjwrOr icxwrvuyjruryjnzrsiiwruaaicherid
evjroqfniyjqjheridrevjrfxuheueoih;rdinrevue,rcfihrevjrsjhjnuxrpjxojdrid
qzrpjohsrauteru uzruhwrwni hjw,rqzrenctejjtrvuwrsoyjhrohrevjruaaicherid
evjrfniwcajridrqzrfuneridrevjrfxuheueoihreirevjrfniacnuein-dotaux,r vi
vuwruffnifnouejwroe,rohrautjrOrhjyjnrauqjreiraxuoqroe,rihj-evonwreirevj
.ohs,ruhwre i-evonwtreirevjrqihutejnzridrTekrUcscteohj,reirpjrjmfjhwjw
dinrevjrpjhjdoeridrevjrfiin,ruhwrdinrevjraihyjntoihridrevjrOhwouhtreirevj
Auevixoarduoev:rpcerevue,rodrOruffjunjw,rinruhzrihjrdinrqj,reiraxuoqrevj
ohvjnoeuhaj,roer icxwrpjrnjteinjw;rihxzrevuerevjroqfniyjqjhe,rinruhhcux
fniwcaeoih,rpjohsrwotenopcejwreiravunoeupxjrctjt,raicxwrhierpjrnjteinjw:
pcervjruttcnjwrqjrevuerevjrtej unwridrevjr.ohs’trnjyjhcjrdniqrxuhwt,ruhw
evjrfniyowinj,rinrtej unwridrevjrqihutejnz,rvuwreu.jhrsnjueraunjruxx
uxihsrevuerevjrohacqpjhe,revuerotreirtuzrqzrfunehjn,rsuyjrjyjnzrzjunru
duoevdcxruaaicheridrevjrfniwcaj,ridr voavrevjzrvuwrwcxzrnjajoyjwrqz
qiojezkrrOrut.jwrvoqrodrvjr.hj reir vuervjosveridroqfniyjqjhervjrvuw
pnicsverevjrfxuheueoih,ruhwr vjevjnrvjrevicsveroerqosverpjr inevrxii.ohs
udejn;rinr vjevjn,rihrqzrsiohsrevoevjn,rOrtvicxwrqjjer oevruhz
iptencaeoihreirqzrfittjttohsrqzrbcternosverohrevjrqiojezkrrVjreixwrqjrvj
aicxwrhierejxxrjmuaexzreir vuerwjsnjjrevjrfxuheueoihr utroqfniyjw;rpce
evotrvjr.hj ,revuerqzrfunehjnr utrsni hrjmajjwohsrnoavrcfihrevjrjhbizohs
votrfuneridroe;ruhwrevue,reirevjrpjteridrvotrnjqjqpnuhaj,rvjrvuwrvjunw
evuerevjr.ohs’trevonwridrqzrfune,r voavr ut,roertjjqt,rsnuhejwru uzrei
tiqjrievjnrqihutejnzrinrnjxosoictrvictj,ruqichejwreirupiyjre irvchwnjw
qiowinjtrurzjun:revuerutreirqzrpjohsrnjteinjwreirurlcojerfittjttoihrid
oe,revjnjr utrhirlcjteoihreirpjrquwjridrevue,rqzrfunehjnrpjohsruxoyjrei
 oehjttrqzreoexj,ruhwrqzrhuqjrpjohsruxtirjhnixxjwrohrevjrnjsotejnridrevj
aichenz;ruxtirvjreixwrqjrevuerevjrtcnyoyintridrqzre irenctejjtr jnjryjnz
duon,rvihjterfjifxj,ruhwryjnzr juxevz;ruhwrvjrpjxojyjwrOr icxwrhierihxz
vuyjrevjonruttoteuhajrdinrfceeohsrqjrohrfittjttoih,rpcer icxwrdohwruryjnz
aihtowjnupxjrtcqridrqihjzrohrevjonrvuhwtrdinrqzruaaiche,rpjohsrevj
fniwcajridrevjrdunqr voxjrevjonrduevjntrvjxwrevjrencte,ruhwrpjdinjroer ut
soyjhrcf,rutrupiyj;r voav,rutrvjrnjqjqpjnjw,r utrdinrupicere jxyjrzjuntk

Ortvi jwrqztjxdrurxoeexjraihajnhjwruhwrchjutzruerevotruaaiche,ruhw
ohlconjwridrevjrixwraufeuohrvi roerauqjreirfuttrevuerevjrenctejjtrtvicxw
evctrwotfitjridrqzrjddjaet,r vjhrvjr.hj revuerOrvuwrquwjrqzr oxx,ruhwrvuw
quwjrvoq,revjrFinecscjtjraufeuoh,rqzrchoyjntuxrvjon,r&ak

Vjreixwrqjrevuer utrencj;rpcerevuerutrevjnjr utrhirfniidridrqzrpjohs
wjuw,rvjraicxwrhieruaerutrjmjaceinrcheoxrtiqjrajneuohruaaichertvicxwraiqj
idrqzrwjuev;ruhw,rpjtowjt,rvjr utrhier oxxohsreirohejnqjwwxjr oevrurevohs
tirnjqiej:revueroer utrencjrvjrvuwrnjsotejnjwrqzr oxx,ruhwrfcerohrvot
axuoq;ruhwraicxwrvjrvuyjrsoyjhruhzruaaicheridrqzrpjohsrwjuwrinruxoyj,rvj
 icxwrvuyjruaejwrpzrfniacnueoih,ruhwreu.jhrfittjttoihridrevjrohsjhoir(ti
evjzrauxxrevjrtcsun-victj),ruhwrvuyjrsoyjhrvotrtih,r vir utrhi ruerevj
Pnugoxt,rinwjntreirwiroekrr“Pce,”rtuztrevjrixwrquh,r“Orvuyjrihjrfojajrid
hj treirejxxrzic,r voavrfjnvuftrquzrhierpjrtiruaajfeupxjreirzicrutrevj
njte;ruhwrevuerot,rpjxojyohsrzicr jnjrxite,ruhwruxxrevjr inxwrpjxojyohs
tiruxti,rzicnrfunehjnruhwrenctejjtrwowriddjnreiruaaicher oevrqj,rohrzicn
huqj,rdinrevjrdontertomrinrjosverzjunt’rfnidoet,r voavrOrnjajoyjwkrrEvjnj
pjohsruerevuereoqjrsnjuerwotpcntjqjhetrdinrohanjutohsrevjr in.t,rpcoxwohs
uhrohsjhoi,ruhwrpczohsrtxuyjt,roerwowrhieruqichereirhjunrtirqcavrut
udejn unwtroerfniwcajw;rvi jyjn,”rtuztrevjrixwrquh,r“Ortvuxxrsoyjrzicru
encjruaaicheridr vuerOrvuyjrnjajoyjwrohruxx,ruhwrvi rOrvuyjrwotfitjwrid
oek”

Udejnrurdj rwuzt’rdcnevjnraihdjnjhajr oevrevotruhaojherdnojhw,rvjrpnicsve
qjruhruaaicheridrevjrdontertomrzjunt’rohaiqjridrqzrfxuheueoih,rtoshjwrpz
qzrfunehjnruhwrevjrqjnavuhe-enctejjt,rpjohsrux uztrwjxoyjnjwrohrsiiwt,
yogkreipuaairohrnixx,ruhwrtcsunrohravjtet,rpjtowjtrncq,rqixuttjt,r&ak,
 voavrotrevjraihtjlcjhajridrurtcsun- in.;ruhwrOrdichwrpzrevotruaaiche,
evuerjyjnzrzjunrevjrohaiqjraihtowjnupxzrohanjutjw;rpce,rutrupiyj,revj
wotpcntjqjhetrpjohsrxunsj,revjrtcqruerdonter utrtquxx:rvi jyjn,revjrixw
quhrxjerqjrtjjrevuervjr utrwjpeinreirqjrdicnrvchwnjwruhwrtjyjhezrqiowinjt
idrsixw,rpjtowjtrtomezravjtetridrtcsunruhwrdodejjhrwicpxjrnixxtrid
eipuaai,r voavr jnjrxiterohrvotrtvof;rvjrvuyohsrpjjhrtvof nja.jwraiqohs
viqjreirXotpih,rupicerjxjyjhrzjuntrudejnrqzrvuyohsrevjrfxuajkrrEvjrsiiw
quhrevjhrpjsuhreiraiqfxuohridrvotrqotdinechjt,ruhwrvi rvjrvuwrpjjh
ipxosjwreirqu.jrctjridrqzrqihjzreirnjaiyjnrvotrxittjt,ruhwrpczrvoqru
tvunjrohrurhj rtvofkrr“Vi jyjn,rqzrixwrdnojhw,”rtuztrvj,r“zicrtvuxxrhie
 uherurtcffxzrohrzicnrhjajttoez;ruhwrutrtiihrutrqzrtihrnjecnhtrzicrtvuxx
pjrdcxxzrtueotdojwk”rrCfihrevotrvjrfcxxtriceruhrixwrficav,ruhwrsoyjtrqj
ihjrvchwnjwruhwrtomezrFinecsuxrqiowinjtrohrsixw;ruhwrsoyohsrevjr noeohst
idrvotreoexjreirevjrtvof,r voavrvotrtihr utrsihjreirevjrPnugoxtroh,rid
 voavrvjr utrlcunejn-funeri hjn,ruhwrvotrtihruhievjn,rvjrfcetrevjqrpiev
oheirqzrvuhwtrdinrtjacnoezridrevjrnjtek

Or utreiirqcavrqiyjwr oevrevjrvihjtezruhwr.ohwhjttridrevjrfiinrquhreirpj
upxjreirpjunrevot;ruhwrnjqjqpjnohsr vuervjrvuwrwihjrdinrqj,rvi rvjrvuw
eu.jhrqjrcfruertju,ruhwrvi rsjhjnictxzrvjrvuwrctjwrqjrihruxxriaautoiht,
uhwrfuneoacxunxzrvi rtohajnjrurdnojhwrvjr utrhi reirqj,rOraicxwrvunwxz
njdnuohr jjfohsruer vuervjrvuwrtuowreirqj;revjnjdinjrOrut.jwrvoqrodrvot
aonacqteuhajtruwqoeejwrvoqreirtfunjrtirqcavrqihjzruerevuereoqj,ruhwrodroe
 icxwrhiertenuoejhrvoq?rrVjreixwrqjrvjraicxwrhiertuzrpceroerqosve
tenuoejhrvoqrurxoeexj;rpce,rvi jyjn,roer utrqzrqihjz,ruhwrOrqosver uheroe
qinjrevuhrvjk

Jyjnzevohsrevjrsiiwrquhrtuowr utrdcxxridruddjaeoih,ruhwrOraicxwrvunwxz
njdnuohrdniqrejuntr voxjrvjrtfi.j;rohrtvine,rOreii.rihjrvchwnjwridrevj
qiowinjt,ruhwrauxxjwrdinrurfjhruhwroh.reirsoyjrvoqrurnjajoferdinrevjq:
evjhrOrnjecnhjwrvoqrevjrnjte,ruhwreixwrvoqrodrjyjnrOrvuwrfittjttoihrid
evjrfxuheueoihrOr icxwrnjecnhrevjrievjnreirvoqruxtir(ut,rohwjjw,rO
udejn unwtrwow);ruhwrevuerutreirevjrpoxxridrtuxjridrvotrfunerohrvotrtih’t
tvof,rOr icxwrhiereu.jroerpzruhzrqjuht;rpcerevuerodrOr uhejwrevjrqihjz,rO
dichwrvjr utrvihjterjhicsvreirfuzrqj;ruhwrodrOrwowrhie,rpcerauqjrei
njajoyjr vuervjrsuyjrqjrnjutihreirjmfjae,rOr icxwrhjyjnrvuyjrurfjhhzrqinj
dniqrvoqk

 vjhrevotr utrfute,revjrixwrquhrut.jwrqjrodrvjrtvicxwrfcerqjroheiru
qjeviwreirqu.jrqzraxuoqreirqzrfxuheueoihkrrOreixwrvoqrOrevicsvereirsi
iyjnreiroerqztjxdkrrVjrtuowrOrqosverwirtirodrOrfxjutjw,rpcerevuerodrOrwow
hie,revjnjr jnjr uztrjhicsvreirtjacnjrqzrnosve,ruhwroqqjwouejxzrei
uffnifnouejrevjrfnidoetreirqzrctj:ruhwrutrevjnjr jnjrtvoftrohrevjrnoyjn
idrXotpihrbcternjuwzreirsiru uzreirPnugox,rvjrquwjrqjrjhejnrqzrhuqjrohru
fcpxoarnjsotejn,r oevrvotruddowuyoe,ruddonqohs,rcfihriuev,revuerOr ut
uxoyj,ruhwrevuerOr utrevjrtuqjrfjntihr vireii.rcfrevjrxuhwrdinrevj
fxuheohsrevjrtuowrfxuheueoihruerdontekrrEvotrpjohsrnjscxunxzrueejtejwrpz
urhieunz,ruhwrurfniacnueoihruddomjw,rvjrwonjaejwrqjreirtjhwroe,r oevru
xjeejnridrvotr noeohs,reirurqjnavuheridrvotrualcuoheuhajruerevjrfxuaj;
uhwrevjhrfnifitjwrqzrteuzohsr oevrvoqreoxxruhruaaicherauqjridrevjrnjecnhk

Hjyjnr utruhzevohsrqinjrvihicnupxjrevuhrevjrfniajjwohstrcfihrevot
fniacnueoih;rdinrohrxjttrevuhrtjyjhrqihevtrOrnjajoyjwrurxunsjrfua.jerdniq
evjrtcnyoyintridrqzrenctejjt,revjrqjnavuhet,rdinr vitjruaaicherOr jherei
tju,rohr voavr jnjrevjrdixxi ohs,rfuneoacxunrxjeejntruhwrfufjnt
jhaxitjw:—

Donte,revjnjr utrevjruaaiche-acnnjheridrevjrfniwcajridrqzrdunqrin
fxuheueoih,rdniqrevjrzjunr vjhrevjonrduevjntrvuwrpuxuhajwr oevrqzrixw
Finecsuxraufeuoh,rpjohsrdinrtomrzjunt;revjrpuxuhajruffjunjwreirpjrihj
evictuhwrihjrvchwnjwruhwrtjyjhez-dicnrqiowinjtrohrqzrduyicnk

Tjaihwxz,revjnjr utrevjruaaicheridrdicnrzjuntrqinj,r voxjrevjzr.jferevj
jddjaetrohrevjonrvuhwt,rpjdinjrevjrsiyjnhqjheraxuoqjwrevjruwqohotenueoih,
utrpjohsrevjrjddjaetridrurfjntihrhiereirpjrdichw,r voavrevjzrauxxjwraoyox
wjuev;ruhwrevjrpuxuhajridrevot,revjryuxcjridrevjrfxuheueoihrohanjutohs,
uqichejwreirhohjejjhrevictuhwrdicnrvchwnjwruhwrdinez-tomranctuwijt,rpjohs
upicerevnjjrevictuhwre irvchwnjwruhwrdinezrqiowinjtk

Evonwxz,revjnjr utrevjrFnoinridrTekrUcscteohj’truaaiche,r virvuwrnjajoyjw
evjrfnidoetrdinrupiyjrdicnejjhrzjunt;rpcerhierpjohsrupxjreiruaaicherdin
 vuer utrwotfitjwridrpzrevjrvitfoeux,ryjnzrvihjtexzrwjaxunjwrvjrvuwrjosve
vchwnjwruhwrtjyjhez-e irqiowinjtrhierwotenopcejw,r voavrvjrua.hi xjwsjw
eirqzruaaiche:rutreirevjr.ohs’trfune,revuernjdchwjwrhievohsk

Evjnjr utrurxjeejnridrqzrfunehjn’t,raihsnuecxueohsrqjryjnzruddjaeoihuejxz
cfihrqzrpjohsruxoyj,rsoyohsrqjruhruaaichervi revjrjteuejr utroqfniyjw,
uhwr vueroerfniwcajwrurzjun;r oevrevjrfuneoacxuntridrevjrhcqpjnrid
tlcunjt,rinruanjtrevueroeraiheuohjw,rvi rfxuhejw,rvi rquhzrtxuyjtrevjnj
 jnjrcfihroe:ruhwrqu.ohsre i-uhw-e jhezranittjtrdinrpxjttohst,reixwrqjrvj
vuwrtuowrtirquhzr_UyjrQunout_reirevuh.revjrPxjttjwrYonsohrevuerOr ut
uxoyj;rohyoeohsrqjryjnzrfuttoihuejxzreiraiqjriyjnruhwreu.jrfittjttoihrid
qzri h,ruhwrohrevjrqjuheoqjreirsoyjrvoqrinwjntreir viqrvjrtvicxwrwjxoyjn
qzrjddjaetrodrOrwowrhieraiqjrqztjxd;raihaxcwohsr oevrurvjunezrejhwjnrid
votrdnojhwtvof,ruhwrevueridrvotrduqoxz;ruhwrtjherqjrutrurfnjtjhertjyjh
dohjrxjifunwt’rt.oht,r voavrvjrvuw,roertjjqt,rnjajoyjwrdniqrUdnoau,rpz
tiqjrievjnrtvofrevuervjrvuwrtjherevoevjn,ruhwr voav,roertjjqt,rvuwrquwjru
pjeejnryizusjrevuhrOkrrVjrtjherqjruxtirdoyjravjtetridrjmajxxjhe
t jjeqjuet,ruhwrurvchwnjwrfojajtridrsixwrchaiohjw,rhierlcoejrtirxunsjrut
qiowinjtkrrPzrevjrtuqjrdxjjerqzre irqjnavuhe-enctejjtrtvoffjwrqjrihj
evictuhwre irvchwnjwravjtetridrtcsun,rjosvervchwnjwrnixxtridreipuaai,ruhw
evjrnjteridrevjr vixjruaaicherohrsixwk

Orqosver jxxrtuzrhi ,rohwjjw,revuerevjrxueejnrjhwridrBipr utrpjeejnrevuh
evjrpjsohhohskrrOerotroqfittopxjreirjmfnjttrevjrdxceejnohstridrqzryjnz
vjuner vjhrOrdichwruxxrqzr juxevrupicerqj;rdinrutrevjrPnugoxrtvoftraiqj
uxxrohrdxjjet,revjrtuqjrtvoftr voavrpnicsverqzrxjeejntrpnicsverqzrsiiwt:
uhwrevjrjddjaetr jnjrtudjrohrevjrnoyjnrpjdinjrevjrxjeejntrauqjreirqz
vuhwkrrOhrur inw,rOrecnhjwrfuxj,ruhwrsnj rtoa.;ruhw,rvuwrhierevjrixwrquh
nchruhwrdjeavjwrqjrurainwoux,rOrpjxojyjrevjrtcwwjhrtcnfnotjridrbizrvuw
iyjntjerhuecnj,ruhwrOrvuwrwojwrcfihrevjrtfie:rhuz,rudejnrevuerOraiheohcjw
yjnzroxx,ruhwr utrtirtiqjrvicnt,reoxxrurfvztoaouhrpjohsrtjherdin,ruhw
tiqjevohsridrevjrnjuxrauctjridrqzroxxhjttrpjohsr.hi h,rvjrinwjnjwrqjrei
pjrxjerpxiiw;rudejnr voavrOrvuwrnjxojd,ruhwrsnj r jxx:rpcerOryjnoxz
pjxojyj,rodrOrvuwrhierpjjhrjutjwrpzruryjhersoyjhrohrevuerquhhjnreirevj
tfonoet,rOrtvicxwrvuyjrwojwk

Or utrhi rqutejn,ruxxrihrurtcwwjh,ridrupiyjrdoyjrevictuhwrfichwtrtejnxohs
ohrqihjz,ruhwrvuwruhrjteuej,rutrOrqosver jxxrauxxroe,rohrevjrPnugoxt,rid
upiyjrurevictuhwrfichwtrurzjun,rutrtcnjrutruhrjteuejridrxuhwtrohrJhsxuhw:
uhw,rohrur inw,rOr utrohruraihwoeoihr voavrOrtaunajr.hj rvi rei
chwjnteuhw,rinrvi reiraiqfitjrqztjxdrdinrevjrjhbizqjheridroekrrEvjrdonte
evohsrOrwowr utreirnjaiqfjhtjrqzrinosohuxrpjhjduaein,rqzrsiiwrixw
aufeuoh,r virvuwrpjjhrdonteravunoeupxjreirqjrohrqzrwotenjtt,r.ohwreirqj
ohrqzrpjsohhohs,ruhwrvihjtereirqjruerevjrjhwkrrOrtvi jwrvoqruxxrevuer ut
tjhereirqj;rOreixwrvoqrevue,rhjmereirevjrfniyowjhajridrVjuyjh,r voav
wotfitjwruxxrevohst,roer utri ohsreirvoq;ruhwrevueroerhi rxuzrihrqjrei
nj unwrvoq,r voavrOr icxwrwirurvchwnjw-dixw:rtirOrdonternjecnhjwreirvoq
evjrvchwnjwrqiowinjtrOrvuwrnjajoyjwridrvoq;revjhrOrtjherdinrurhieunz,ruhw
auctjwrvoqreirwnu rcfrursjhjnuxrnjxjutjrinrwotavunsjrdniqrevjrdicn
vchwnjwruhwrtjyjhezrqiowinjt,r voavrvjrvuwrua.hi xjwsjwrvjri jwrqj,roh
evjrdcxxjteruhwrdonqjterquhhjnrfittopxjkrrUdejnr voavrOrauctjwru
fniacnueoihreirpjrwnu h,rjqfi jnohsrvoqreirpjrevjrnjajoyjnridrevjruhhcux
fnidoetridrqzrfxuheueoih:ruhwruffioheohsrqzrfunehjnreiruaaicher oevrvoq,
uhwrqu.jrevjrnjecnht,rpzrevjrctcuxrdxjjet,reirvoqrohrqzrhuqj;ruhwrpzru
axuctjrohrevjrjhw,rquwjrursnuheridrihjrvchwnjwrqiowinjtrurzjunreirvoq
wcnohsrvotrxodj,riceridrevjrjddjaet,ruhwrdodezrqiowinjtrurzjunreirvotrtih
udejnrvoq,rdinrvotrxodj:ruhwrevctrOrnjlcoejwrqzrixwrquhk

Orvuwrhi reiraihtowjnr voavr uzreirtejjnrqzraicntjrhjme,ruhwr vuereirwi
 oevrevjrjteuejrevuerFniyowjhajrvuwrevctrfceroheirqzrvuhwt;ruhw,rohwjjw,
Orvuwrqinjraunjrcfihrqzrvjuwrhi revuhrOrvuwrohrqzrteuejridrxodjrohrevj
otxuhwr vjnjrOr uhejwrhievohsrpcer vuerOrvuw,ruhwrvuwrhievohsrpcer vuerO
 uhejw;r vjnjutrOrvuwrhi rursnjueravunsjrcfihrqj,ruhwrqzrpctohjttr utrvi 
eirtjacnjroekrrOrvuwrhierurauyjrhi reirvowjrqzrqihjzroh,rinrurfxuajr vjnj
oerqosverxojr oevicerxia.rinr.jz,reoxxroersnj rqicxwzruhwreunhotvjw
pjdinjruhzpiwzr icxwrqjwwxjr oevroe;rihrevjraihenunz,rOr.hj rhier vjnjrei
fceroe,rinr viqreirencter oevroekrrQzrixwrfuenih,revjraufeuoh,rohwjjw,
 utrvihjte,ruhwrevuer utrevjrihxzrnjdcsjrOrvuwkrrOhrevjrhjmerfxuaj,rqz
ohejnjterohrevjrPnugoxtrtjjqjwreirtcqqihrqjrevoevjn;rpcerhi rOraicxwrhie
ejxxrvi reirevoh.ridrsiohsrevoevjnreoxxrOrvuwrtjeexjwrqzrudduont,ruhw
xjderqzrjddjaetrohrtiqjrtudjrvuhwtrpjvohwrqjkrrUerdonterOrevicsveridrqz
ixwrdnojhwrevjr owi ,r virOr.hj r utrvihjte,ruhwr icxwrpjrbctereirqj;rpce
evjhrtvjr utrohrzjunt,ruhwrpcerfiin,ruhw,rdinrucsverOr.hj ,rqosverpjroh
wjpe:rtirevue,rohrur inw,rOrvuwrhir uzrpcereirsirpua.reirJhsxuhwrqztjxd
uhwreu.jrqzrjddjaetr oevrqjk

Oer utrtiqjrqihevt,rvi jyjn,rpjdinjrOrnjtixyjwrcfihrevot;ruhw,revjnjdinj,
utrOrvuwrnj unwjwrevjrixwraufeuohrdcxxz,ruhwreirvotrtueotduaeoih,r virvuw
pjjhrqzrdinqjnrpjhjduaein,rtirOrpjsuhreirevoh.ridrevjrfiinr owi ,r vitj
vctpuhwrvuwrpjjhrqzrdonterpjhjduaein,ruhwrtvj,r voxjroer utrohrvjnrfi jn,
qzrduoevdcxrtej unwruhwrohtencaeinkrrTi,revjrdonterevohsrOrwow,rOrsieru
qjnavuherohrXotpihreir noejreirvotrainnjtfihwjherohrXihwih,rhierihxzrei
fuzrurpoxx,rpcereirsirdohwrvjnrice,ruhwraunnzrvjn,rohrqihjz,rurvchwnjw
fichwtrdniqrqj,ruhwreireux.r oevrvjn,ruhwraiqdinervjnrohrvjnrfiyjnez,rpz
ejxxohsrvjnrtvjrtvicxw,rodrOrxoyjw,rvuyjrurdcnevjnrtcffxz:ruerevjrtuqj
eoqjrOrtjherqzre irtotejntrohrevjraichenzrurvchwnjwrfichwtrjuav,revjz
pjohs,revicsvrhierohr uhe,rzjerhierohryjnzrsiiwraonacqteuhajt;rihjrvuyohs
pjjhrqunnojwruhwrxjderur owi ;ruhwrevjrievjnrvuyohsrurvctpuhwrhiertir.ohw
eirvjnrutrvjrtvicxwrpjkrrPceruqihsruxxrqzrnjxueoihtrinrualcuoheuhajtrO
aicxwrhierzjerfoeavrcfihrihjreir viqrOrwcnteraiqqoerevjrsnittridrqz
teia.,revuerOrqosversiru uzreirevjrPnugoxt,ruhwrxjuyjrevohstrtudjrpjvohw
qj;ruhwrevotrsnjuexzrfjnfxjmjwrqjk

OrvuwrihajrurqohwreirvuyjrsihjreirevjrPnugoxtruhwrvuyjrtjeexjwrqztjxd
evjnj,rdinrOr ut,rutroer jnj,rhuecnuxotjwreirevjrfxuaj;rpcerOrvuwrtiqj
xoeexjrtancfxjrohrqzrqohwrupicernjxosoih,r voavrohtjhtopxzrwnj rqjrpua.k
Vi jyjn,roer utrhiernjxosoihrevuer.jferqjrdniqrsiohsrevjnjrdinrevj
fnjtjhe;ruhwrutrOrvuwrquwjrhirtancfxjridrpjohsrifjhxzridrevjrnjxosoihrid
evjraichenzruxxrevjr voxjrOr utruqihsrevjq,rtirhjoevjnrwowrOrzje;rihxz
evue,rhi ruhwrevjh,rvuyohsridrxuejrevicsverqinjridroerevuhrdinqjnxz,r vjh
Orpjsuhreirevoh.ridrxoyohsruhwrwzohsruqihsrevjq,rOrpjsuhreirnjsnjervuyohs
fnidjttjwrqztjxdrurFufote,ruhwrevicsveroerqosverhierpjrevjrpjternjxosoih
eirwojr oevk

Pce,rutrOrvuyjrtuow,revotr utrhierevjrquohrevohsrevuer.jferqjrdniqrsiohs
eirevjrPnugoxt,rpcerevuernjuxxzrOrwowrhier.hi r oevr viqreirxjuyjrqz
jddjaetrpjvohwrqj;rtirOrnjtixyjwruerxutereirsireirJhsxuhw,r vjnj,rodrO
unnoyjw,rOraihaxcwjwrevuerOrtvicxwrqu.jrtiqjrualcuoheuhaj,rinrdohwrtiqj
njxueoiht,revuer icxwrpjrduoevdcxreirqj;ruhw,ruaainwohsxz,rOrfnjfunjwrei
sireirJhsxuhwr oevruxxrqzr juxevk

Ohrinwjnreirfnjfunjrevohstrdinrqzrsiohsrviqj,rOrdonter(evjrPnugoxrdxjje
pjohsrbctersiohsru uz)rnjtixyjwreirsoyjruht jntrtcoeupxjreirevjrbcteruhw
duoevdcxruaaicheridrevohstrOrvuwrdniqrevjhaj;ruhw,rdonte,reirevjrFnoinrid
TekrUcscteohjrOr niejrurxjeejnrdcxxridrevuh.trdinrvotrbcterwjuxohst,ruhw
evjriddjnridrevjrjosvervchwnjwruhwrtjyjhez-e irqiowinjtr voavr jnj
chwotfitjwrid,r voavrOrwjtonjwrqosverpjrsoyjh,rdoyjrvchwnjwreirevj
qihutejnz,ruhwrevnjjrvchwnjwruhwrtjyjhez-e ireirevjrfiin,rutrevjrfnoin
tvicxwrwonjae;rwjtonohsrevjrsiiwrfuwnj’trfnuzjntrdinrqj,ruhwrevjrxo.jkrrO
 niejrhjmerurxjeejnridrevuh.treirqzre irenctejjt,r oevruxxrevj
ua.hi xjwsqjherevuertirqcavrbcteoajruhwrvihjtezrauxxjwrdin:rutrdin
tjhwohsrevjqruhzrfnjtjhe,revjzr jnjrdunrupiyjrvuyohsruhzriaautoihridroek
Xutexz,rOr niejreirqzrfunehjn,rua.hi xjwsohsrvotrohwctenzrohrevj
oqfniyohsrevjrfxuheueoih,ruhwrvotrohejsnoezrohrohanjutohsrevjrteia.rid
evjr in.t;rsoyohsrvoqrohtencaeoihtrdinrvotrdcecnjrsiyjnhqjheridrqzrfune,
uaainwohsreirevjrfi jntrOrvuwrxjder oevrqzrixwrfuenih,reir viqrOrwjtonjw
voqreirtjhwr vuejyjnrpjauqjrwcjreirqj,reoxxrvjrtvicxwrvjunrdniqrqjrqinj
funeoacxunxz;ruttcnohsrvoqrevueroer utrqzrohejheoihrhierihxzreiraiqjrei
voq,rpcereirtjeexjrqztjxdrevjnjrdinrevjrnjquohwjnridrqzrxodjkrrEirevotrO
uwwjwruryjnzrvuhwtiqjrfnjtjheridrtiqjrOeuxouhrtox.trdinrvotr odjruhwre i
wucsvejnt,rdinrtcavrevjraufeuoh’trtihrohdinqjwrqjrvjrvuw;r oevre irfojajt
idrdohjrJhsxotvrpniuwaxiev,revjrpjterOraicxwrsjerohrXotpih,rdoyjrfojajt
idrpxua.rpuogj,ruhwrtiqjrDxuhwjntrxuajridrursiiwryuxcjk

Vuyohsrevctrtjeexjwrqzrudduont,rtixwrqzraunsi,ruhwrecnhjwruxxrqzrjddjaet
oheirsiiwrpoxxtridrjmavuhsj,rqzrhjmerwoddoacxezr utr voavr uzreirsirei
Jhsxuhw:rOrvuwrpjjhruaacteiqjwrjhicsvreirevjrtju,ruhwrzjerOrvuwrurtenuhsj
uyjntoihreirsireirJhsxuhwrpzrevjrtjuruerevuereoqj,ruhwrzjerOraicxwrsoyj
hirnjutihrdinroe,rzjerevjrwoddoacxezrohanjutjwrcfihrqjrtirqcav,revue
evicsvrOrvuwrihajrtvoffjwrqzrpussusjrohrinwjnreirsi,rzjerOruxejnjwrqz
qohw,ruhwrevuerhierihajrpcere irinrevnjjreoqjtk

OerotrencjrOrvuwrpjjhryjnzrchdinechuejrpzrtju,ruhwrevotrqosverpjrihjrid
evjrnjutiht;rpcerxjerhirquhrtxosverevjrtenihsroqfcxtjtridrvotri h
evicsvetrohrautjtridrtcavrqiqjhe:re iridrevjrtvoftr voavrOrvuwrtohsxjw
icereirsiroh,rOrqjuhrqinjrfuneoacxunxzrtohsxjwricerevuhruhzrievjn,rvuyohs
fcerqzrevohstrihrpiunwrihjridrevjq,ruhwrohrevjrievjnrvuyohsrusnjjwr oev
evjraufeuoh;rOrtuzre iridrevjtjrtvoftrqotaunnojwkrrIhjr utreu.jhrpzrevj
Uxsjnohjt,ruhwrevjrievjnr utrxiterihrevjrTeune,rhjunrEinpuz,ruhwruxxrevj
fjifxjrwni hjwrjmajferevnjj;rtirevuerohrjoevjnridrevitjryjttjxtrOrvuw
pjjhrquwjrqotjnupxjk

Vuyohsrpjjhrevctrvunuttjwrohrqzrevicsvet,rqzrixwrfoxie,reir viqrO
aiqqchoauejwrjyjnzevohs,rfnjttjwrqjrjunhjtexzrhiereirsirpzrtju,rpce
joevjnreirsirpzrxuhwreirevjrSnizhj,ruhwranittriyjnrevjrPuzridrPotauzrei
Niavjxxj,rdniqr vjhajroer utrpceruhrjutzruhwrtudjrbicnhjzrpzrxuhwrei
Funot,ruhwrtireirAuxuotruhwrWiyjn;rinreirsircfreirQuwnow,ruhwrtiruxxrevj
 uzrpzrxuhwrevnicsvrDnuhajkrrOhrur inw,rOr utrtirfnjfittjttjwrusuohterqz
siohsrpzrtjurueruxx,rjmajferdniqrAuxuotreirWiyjn,revuerOrnjtixyjwrei
enuyjxruxxrevjr uzrpzrxuhw;r voav,rutrOr utrhierohrvutej,ruhwrwowrhie
yuxcjrevjravunsj,r utrpzrqcavrevjrfxjutuhejnr uz:ruhwreirqu.jroerqinjrti,
qzrixwraufeuohrpnicsveruhrJhsxotvrsjhexjquh,revjrtihridrurqjnavuheroh
Xotpih,r vir utr oxxohsreirenuyjxr oevrqj;rudejnr voavr jrfoa.jwrcfre i
qinjrJhsxotvrqjnavuhetruxti,ruhwre irzichsrFinecscjtjrsjhexjqjh,revjrxute
siohsreirFunotrihxz;rtirevuerohruxxrevjnjr jnjrtomridrctruhwrdoyj
tjnyuhet;revjre irqjnavuhetruhwrevjre irFinecscjtj,raihejheohsrevjqtjxyjt
 oevrihjrtjnyuherpje jjhre i,reirtuyjrevjravunsj;ruhwrutrdinrqj,rOrsieruh
Jhsxotvrtuoxinreirenuyjxr oevrqjrutrurtjnyuhe,rpjtowjtrqzrquhrDnowuz,r vi
 utreiirqcavrurtenuhsjnreirpjraufupxjridrtcffxzohsrevjrfxuajridrurtjnyuhe
ihrevjrniuwk

OhrevotrquhhjnrOrtjericerdniqrXotpih;ruhwricnraiqfuhzrpjohsryjnzr jxx
qichejwruhwrunqjw,r jrquwjrurxoeexjreniif,r vjnjidrevjzrwowrqjrevjrvihicn
eirauxxrqjraufeuoh,rutr jxxrpjauctjrOr utrevjrixwjterquh,rutrpjauctjrO
vuwre irtjnyuhet,ruhw,rohwjjw,r utrevjrinosohridrevjr vixjrbicnhjzk

UtrOrvuyjrenicpxjwrzicr oevrhihjridrqzrtjurbicnhuxt,rtirOrtvuxxrenicpxj
zicrhi r oevrhihjridrqzrxuhwrbicnhuxt;rpcertiqjruwyjhecnjtrevuervuffjhjw
eirctrohrevotrejwoictruhwrwoddoacxerbicnhjzrOrqcterhieriqoek

 vjhr jrauqjreirQuwnow,r j,rpjohsruxxridrctrtenuhsjntreirTfuoh,r jnj
 oxxohsreirteuzrtiqjreoqjreirtjjrevjraicneridrTfuoh,ruhwr vuer utr inev
iptjnyohs;rpceroerpjohsrevjrxueejnrfuneridrevjrtcqqjn,r jrvutejhjwru uz,
uhwrtjericerdniqrQuwnowrupicerevjrqowwxjridrIaeipjn;rpcer vjhr jrauqjrei
evjrjwsjridrHuyunnj,r jr jnjruxunqjw,ruertjyjnuxrei htrihrevjr uz,r oev
uhruaaicherevuertirqcavrthi r utrduxxohsrihrevjrDnjhavrtowjridrevj
qicheuoht,revuertjyjnuxrenuyjxxjntr jnjripxosjwreiraiqjrpua.rei
Fuqfjxchu,rudejnrvuyohsrueejqfejwrueruhrjmenjqjrvugunwreirfuttrihk

 vjhr jrauqjreirFuqfjxchuroetjxd,r jrdichwroertirohwjjw;ruhwreirqj,revue
vuwrpjjhrux uztrctjwreirurvieraxoquej,ruhwreiraichenojtr vjnjrOraicxw
taunajrpjunruhzraxievjtrih,revjraixwr utrohtcddjnupxj;rhin,rohwjjw,r ut
oerqinjrfuohdcxrevuhrtcnfnotohsreiraiqjrpcerejhrwuztrpjdinjriceridrIxw
Auteoxj,r vjnjrevjr juevjnr utrhierihxzr unqrpceryjnzrvie,ruhw
oqqjwouejxzreirdjjxrur ohwrdniqrevjrFznjhjuhrQicheuohtrtiryjnzr.jjh,rti
tjyjnjxzraixw,rutreirpjroheixjnupxjruhwreirjhwuhsjnrpjhcqpohsruhw
fjnotvohsridricnrdohsjntruhwreijtk

FiinrDnowuzr utrnjuxxzrdnosvejhjwr vjhrvjrtu revjrqicheuohtruxxraiyjnjw
 oevrthi ,ruhwrdjxeraixwr juevjn,r voavrvjrvuwrhjyjnrtjjhrinrdjxerpjdinj
ohrvotrxodjkrrEirqjhwrevjrqueejn,r vjhr jrauqjreirFuqfjxchuroeraiheohcjw
thi ohsr oevrtirqcavryoixjhajruhwrtirxihs,revuerevjrfjifxjrtuowr ohejn
 utraiqjrpjdinjroetreoqj;ruhwrevjrniuwt,r voavr jnjrwoddoacxerpjdinj,
 jnjrhi rlcoejroqfuttupxj;rdin,rohrur inw,revjrthi rxuzrohrtiqjrfxuajt
eiirevoa.rdinrctreirenuyjx,ruhwrpjohsrhiervunwrdnigjh,rutrotrevjrautjroh
evjrhinevjnhraichenojt,revjnjr utrhirsiohsr oevicerpjohsrohrwuhsjnrid
pjohsrpcnojwruxoyjrjyjnzrtejfkrr jrteuzjwrhirxjttrevuhre jhezrwuztrue
Fuqfjxchu;r vjhr(tjjohsrevjr ohejnraiqohsrih,ruhwrhirxo.jxoviiwridroet
pjohsrpjeejn,rdinroer utrevjrtjyjnjter ohejnruxxriyjnrJcnifjrevuervuw
pjjhr.hi hrohrevjrqjqinzridrquh)rOrfnifitjwrevuer jrtvicxwrsiru uzrei
Diheunupou,ruhwrevjnjreu.jrtvoffohsrdinrPinwjucm,r voavr utruryjnzrxoeexj
yizusjkrrPce,r voxjrOr utraihtowjnohsrevot,revjnjrauqjrohrdicnrDnjhav
sjhexjqjh,r vi,rvuyohsrpjjhrteiffjwrihrevjrDnjhavrtowjridrevjrfuttjt,rut
 jr jnjrihrevjrTfuhotv,rvuwrdichwricerurscowj,r vi,renuyjntohsrevj
aichenzrhjunrevjrvjuwridrXuhscjwia,rvuwrpnicsverevjqriyjnrevjrqicheuoht
pzrtcavr uztrevuerevjzr jnjrhierqcavrohaiqqiwjwr oevrevjrthi ;rdinr vjnj
evjzrqjer oevrthi rohruhzrlcuheoez,revjzrtuowroer utrdnigjhrvunwrjhicsv
eirpjunrevjqruhwrevjonrvintjtkrr jrtjherdinrevotrscowj,r vireixwrctrvj
 icxwrchwjneu.jreiraunnzrctrevjrtuqjr uz,r oevrhirvugunwrdniqrevjrthi ,
fniyowjwr jr jnjrunqjwrtcddoaojhexzreirfniejaericntjxyjtrdniqr oxw
pjutet;rdin,rvjrtuow,rohrevjtjrsnjuerthi troer utrdnjlcjherdinrtiqj
 ixyjtreirtvi revjqtjxyjtruerevjrdiieridrevjrqicheuoht,rpjohsrquwj
nuyjhictrdinr uheridrdiiw,revjrsnichwrpjohsraiyjnjwr oevrthi krr jreixw
voqr jr jnjr jxxrjhicsvrfnjfunjwrdinrtcavranjuecnjtrutrevjzr jnj,rodrvj
 icxwrohtcnjrctrdniqrur.ohwridre i-xjssjwr ixyjt,r voavr jr jnjreixwr j
 jnjrohrqiterwuhsjnrdniq,rjtfjaouxxzrihrevjrDnjhavrtowjridrevjrqicheuohtk
Vjrtueotdojwrctrevuerevjnjr utrhirwuhsjnridrevuer.ohwrohrevjr uzrevuer j
 jnjreirsi;rtir jrnjuwoxzrusnjjwreirdixxi rvoq,rutrwowruxtire jxyjrievjn
sjhexjqjhr oevrevjonrtjnyuhet,rtiqjrDnjhav,rtiqjrTfuhotv,r vi,rutrOrtuow,
vuwrueejqfejwreirsi,ruhwr jnjripxosjwreiraiqjrpua.rusuohk

Uaainwohsxz,r jrtjericerdniqrFuqfjxchur oevricnrscowjrihrevjr15evrid
Hiyjqpjn;ruhwrohwjjwrOr utrtcnfnotjwr vjh,rohtejuwridrsiohsrdin unw,rvj
auqjrwonjaexzrpua.r oevrctrihrevjrtuqjrniuwrevuer jrauqjrdniqrQuwnow,
upicere jhezrqoxjt;r vjh,rvuyohsrfuttjwre irnoyjnt,ruhwraiqjroheirevj
fxuohraichenz,r jrdichwricntjxyjtrohrur unqraxoquejrusuoh,r vjnjrevj
aichenzr utrfxjutuhe,ruhwrhirthi reirpjrtjjh;rpce,rihrurtcwwjh,recnhohs
eirvotrxjde,rvjruffniuavjwrevjrqicheuohtruhievjnr uz;ruhwrevicsvroerot
encjrevjrvoxxtruhwrfnjaofoajtrxii.jwrwnjuwdcx,rzjervjrquwjrtirquhzreicnt,
tcavrqjuhwjnt,ruhwrxjwrctrpzrtcavr ohwohsr uzt,revuer jrohtjhtopxzrfuttjw
evjrvjosveridrevjrqicheuohtr oevicerpjohsrqcavrjhacqpjnjwr oevrevjrthi ;
uhwruxxrihrurtcwwjhrvjrtvi jwrctrevjrfxjutuheruhwrdncoedcxrfniyohajtrid
XuhscjwiaruhwrSutaihz,ruxxrsnjjhruhwrdxicnotvohs,revicsvruerursnjue
woteuhaj,ruhwr jrvuwrtiqjrnicsvr uzreirfuttrteoxxk

 jr jnjrurxoeexjrchjutz,rvi jyjn,r vjhr jrdichwroerthi jwrihjr vixjrwuz
uhwrurhosvertirduterevuer jraicxwrhierenuyjx;rpcervjrpowrctrpjrjutz;r j
tvicxwrtiihrpjrfuteroeruxx:r jrdichw,rohwjjw,revuer jrpjsuhreirwjtajhw
jyjnzrwuz,ruhwreiraiqjrqinjrhinevrevuhrpjdinj;ruhwrti,rwjfjhwohsrcfihricn
scowj,r jr jherihk

Oer utrupicere irvicntrpjdinjrhosver vjh,ricnrscowjrpjohsrtiqjevohs
pjdinjrct,ruhwrhierbcterohrtosve,ricernctvjwrevnjjrqihtenictr ixyjt,ruhw
udejnrevjqrurpjun,rdniqrurvixxi r uzruwbiohohsreirurevoa.r iiw;re irid
evjr ixyjtrquwjruerevjrscowj,ruhwrvuwrvjrpjjhrdunrpjdinjrct,rvjr icxw
vuyjrpjjhrwjyicnjwrpjdinjr jraicxwrvuyjrvjxfjwrvoq;rihjridrevjqrdutejhjw
cfihrvotrvintj,ruhwrevjrievjnrueeua.jwrevjrquhr oevrtcavryoixjhaj,revue
vjrvuwrhiereoqj,rinrfnjtjhajridrqohwrjhicsv,reirwnu rvotrfoteix,rpce
vuxxiijwruhwranojwricereirctrqiterxcteoxzkrrQzrquhrDnowuzrpjohsrhjmerqj,
Orpuwjrvoqrnowjrcfruhwrtjjr vuer utrevjrqueejnkrrUtrtiihrutrDnowuzrauqj
ohrtosveridrevjrquh,rvjrvuxxiijwricerutrxicwrutrevjrievjn,r“Irqutejn!rI
qutejn!”rpcerxo.jrurpixwrdjxxi ,rniwjrwonjaexzrcfreirevjrfiinrquh,ruhw
 oevrvotrfoteixrtvierevjr ixdrohrevjrvjuwrevuerueeua.jwrvoqk

Oer utrvuffzrdinrevjrfiinrquhrevueroer utrqzrquhrDnowuz;rdin,rvuyohsrpjjh
ctjwreirtcavranjuecnjtrohrvotraichenz,rvjrvuwrhirdjunrcfihrvoq,rpcer jhe
axitjrcfreirvoqruhwrtviervoq;r vjnjut,ruhzrievjnridrctr icxwrvuyjrdonjw
uerurdunevjnrwoteuhaj,ruhwrvuyjrfjnvuftrjoevjnrqottjwrevjr ixdrin
jhwuhsjnjwrtviieohsrevjrquhk

Pceroer utrjhicsvreirvuyjrejnnodojwrurpixwjnrquhrevuhrO;ruhw,rohwjjw,roe
uxunqjwruxxricnraiqfuhz,r vjh,r oevrevjrhiotjridrDnowuz’trfoteix,r j
vjunwrihrpievrtowjtrevjrqiterwotquxrvi xohsridr ixyjt;ruhwrevjrhiotj,
njwicpxjwrpzrevjrjaviridrevjrqicheuoht,ruffjunjwreirctrutrodrevjnjrvuw
pjjhrurfniwosoictrhcqpjnridrevjq;ruhwrfjnvuftrevjnjr utrhiertcavrurdj rut
evuer jrvuwrhirauctjridruffnjvjhtoih:rvi jyjn,rutrDnowuzrvuwr.oxxjwrevot
 ixd,revjrievjnrevuervuwrdutejhjwrcfihrevjrvintjrxjdervoqroqqjwouejxz,
uhwrdxjw,r oevicerwiohsrvoqruhzrwuqusj,rvuyohsrvuffoxzrdutejhjwrcfihrvot
vjuw,r vjnjrevjrpittjtridrevjrpnowxjrvuwrteca.rohrvotrejjevkrrPcerevjrquh
 utrqitervcne;rdinrevjrnusohsranjuecnjrvuwrpoervoqre oaj,rihajrohrevj
unq,ruhwrevjrievjnreoqjrurxoeexjrupiyjrvotr.hjj;ruhwrevicsvrvjrvuwrquwj
tiqjrwjdjhaj,rvjr utrbcterecqpxohsrwi hrpzrevjrwotinwjnridrvotrvintj,
 vjhrDnowuzrauqjrcfruhwrtvierevjr ixdk

OerotrjutzreirtcffitjrevueruerevjrhiotjridrDnowuz’trfoteixr jruxxrqjhwjw
icnrfuaj,ruhwrniwjrcfrutrduterutrevjr uz,r voavr utryjnzrwoddoacxe,r icxw
soyjrctrxjuyj,reirtjjr vuer utrevjrqueejnkrrUtrtiihrutr jrauqjraxjunrid
evjrenjjt,r voavrpxohwjwrctrpjdinj,r jrtu raxjunxzr vuervuwrpjjhrevj
autj,ruhwrvi rDnowuzrvuwrwotjhsusjwrevjrfiinrscowj,revicsvr jrwowrhie
fnjtjhexzrwotajnhr vuer.ohwridranjuecnjroer utrvjrvuwr.oxxjwk




AVUFEJNrMM—DOSVErPJE JJHrDNOWUZrUHWrUrPJUN


Pcerhjyjnr utrurdosverquhusjwrtirvunwoxz,ruhwrohrtcavrurtcnfnotohsrquhhjn
utrevuer voavrdixxi jwrpje jjhrDnowuzruhwrevjrpjun,r voavrsuyjrctruxx,
evicsvruerdonter jr jnjrtcnfnotjwruhwrudnuowrdinrvoq,revjrsnjuejte
woyjntoihroqusohupxjkrrUtrevjrpjunrotrurvjuyz,raxcqtzranjuecnj,ruhwrwijt
hiersuxxifrutrevjr ixdrwijt,r virotrt oderuhwrxosve,rtirvjrvutre i
funeoacxunrlcuxoeojt,r voavrsjhjnuxxzrunjrevjrncxjridrvotruaeoiht;rdonte,
utreirqjh,r virunjrhiervotrfnifjnrfnjzr(vjrwijtrhierctcuxxzrueejqferevjq,
jmajferevjzrdonterueeua.rvoq,rchxjttrvjrpjrjmajttoyjxzrvchsnz,r voavroe
otrfnipupxjrqosverhi rpjrevjrautj,revjrsnichwrpjohsraiyjnjwr oevrthi ),
odrzicrwirhierqjwwxjr oevrvoq,rvjr oxxrhierqjwwxjr oevrzic;rpcerevjhrzic
qctereu.jraunjreirpjryjnzraoyoxreirvoq,ruhwrsoyjrvoqrevjrniuw,rdinrvjrot
uryjnzrhoajrsjhexjquh;rvjr oxxrhiersirurtejfriceridrvotr uzrdinrurfnohaj;
huz,rodrzicrunjrnjuxxzrudnuow,rzicnrpjter uzrotreirxii.ruhievjnr uzruhw
.jjfrsiohsrih;rdinrtiqjeoqjtrodrzicrteif,ruhwrteuhwrteoxx,ruhwrxii.
tejuwdutexzruervoq,rvjreu.jtroerdinruhruddnihe;rpcerodrzicrevni rinreitt
uhzevohsruervoq,revicsvroer jnjrpcerurpoeridrteoa.rutrposrutrzicnrdohsjn,
vjrevoh.trvoqtjxdrupctjw,ruhwrtjetruxxrievjnrpctohjttrutowjreirfcntcjrvot
njyjhsj,ruhwr oxxrvuyjrtueotduaeoihrohrfioheridrvihicn—evuerotrvotrdonte
lcuxoez:revjrhjmerot,rodrvjrpjrihajruddnihejw,rvjr oxxrhjyjnrxjuyjrzic,
hosverinrwuz,reoxxrvjrvutrvotrnjyjhsj,rpcerdixxi truerursiiwrnichwrnuej
eoxxrvjriyjneu.jtrzick

QzrquhrDnowuzrvuwrwjxoyjnjwricnrscowj,ruhwr vjhr jrauqjrcfreirvoqrvjr ut
vjxfohsrvoqriddrvotrvintj,rdinrevjrquhr utrpievrvcneruhwrdnosvejhjw,r vjh
ihrurtcwwjhr jrjtfojwrevjrpjunraiqjriceridrevjr iiw;ruhwrurqihtenictrihj
oer ut,revjrpossjterpzrdunrevuerjyjnrOrtu krr jr jnjruxxrurxoeexj
tcnfnotjwr vjhr jrtu rvoq;rpcer vjhrDnowuzrtu rvoq,roer utrjutzreirtjj
bizruhwraicnusjrohrevjrdjxxi ’traichejhuhajkrr“I!rI!rI!”rtuztrDnowuz,
evnjjreoqjt,rfioheohsreirvoq;r“Irqutejn,rzicrsoyjrqjrejrxjuyj,rqjrtvu.jj
ejrvuhwr oevrvoq;rqjrqu.jjrzicrsiiwrxucsvk”

Or utrtcnfnotjwreirtjjrevjrdjxxi rtir jxxrfxjutjwkrr“Zicrdiix,”rtuztrO,
“vjr oxxrjuerzicrcfk”—“Juejjrqjrcf!rjuejjrqjrcf!”rtuztrDnowuz,re oajriyjn
usuoh;r“qjrjuejjrvoqrcf;rqjrqu.jjrzicrsiiwrxucsv;rzicruxxrteuzrvjnj,rqj
tvi rzicrsiiwrxucsvk”rrTirwi hrvjrtoet,ruhwrsjetriddrvotrpiietrohru
qiqjhe,ruhwrfcetrihrurfuonridrfcqftr(utr jrauxxrevjrdxuertvijtrevjzr jun,
uhwr voavrvjrvuwrohrvotrfia.je),rsoyjtrqzrievjnrtjnyuhervotrvintj,ruhw
 oevrvotrschru uzrvjrdxj ,rt oderxo.jrevjr ohwk

Evjrpjunr utr ux.ohsrtidexzrih,ruhwriddjnjwreirqjwwxjr oevrhipiwz,reoxx
Dnowuzraiqohsrfnjeezrhjun,rauxxtreirvoq,rutrodrevjrpjunraicxwrchwjnteuhw
voqkrr“Vun.rzj,rvun.rzj,”rtuztrDnowuz,r“qjrtfju.jjr oevrzick”rr j
dixxi jwruerurwoteuhaj,rdinrhi rpjohsrwi hrihrevjrSutaihzrtowjridrevj
qicheuoht,r jr jnjrjhejnjwruryuterdinjte,r vjnjrevjraichenzr utrfxuohruhw
fnjeezrifjh,revicsvroervuwrquhzrenjjtrohroertaueejnjwrvjnjruhwrevjnjk
Dnowuz,r virvuw,rutr jrtuz,revjrvjjxtridrevjrpjun,rauqjrcfr oevrvoq
lcoa.xz,ruhwreii.rcfrursnjuerteihj,ruhwrevnj roeruervoq,ruhwrvoervoqrbcte
ihrevjrvjuw,rpcerwowrvoqrhirqinjrvunqrevuhrodrvjrvuwrevni hroerusuohteru
 uxx;rpceroeruht jnjwrDnowuz’trjhw,rdinrevjrniscjr utrtiryiowridrdjun
evuervjrwowroerfcnjxzreirqu.jrevjrpjunrdixxi rvoq,ruhwrtvi rctrtiqjrxucsv
utrvjrauxxjwroekrrUtrtiihrutrevjrpjunrdjxerevjrpxi ,ruhwrtu rvoq,rvj
ecnhtrupiceruhwraiqjtrudejnrvoq,reu.ohsryjnzrxihsrtenowjt,ruhwrtvcddxohs
ihruerurtenuhsjrnuej,rtirutr icxwrvuyjrfcerurvintjreirurqowwxohsrsuxxif;
u uzrnjohtrDnowuz,ruhwreu.jtrvotraicntjrutrodrvjrnuhrei unwtrctrdinrvjxf;
tir jruxxrnjtixyjwreirdonjruerihajrcfihrevjrpjun,ruhwrwjxoyjnrqzrquh;
evicsvrOr utruhsnzruervoqrdinrpnohsohsrevjrpjunrpua.rcfihrct,r vjhrvjr ut
siohsrupicervotri hrpctohjttruhievjnr uz;ruhwrjtfjaouxxzrOr utruhsnzrevue
vjrvuwrecnhjwrevjrpjunrcfihrct,ruhwrevjhrnuhru uz;ruhwrOrauxxjwrice,r“Zic
wis!rotrevotrzicnrqu.ohsrctrxucsv?rrAiqjru uz,ruhwreu.jrzicnrvintj,revue
 jrquzrtviierevjranjuecnjk”rrVjrvjunwrqj,ruhwranojwrice,r“Hirtviie,rhi
tviie;rteuhwrteoxx,ruhwrzicrsjerqcavrxucsv:”ruhwrutrevjrhoqpxjranjuecnj
nuhre irdjjerdinrevjrpjun’trihj,rvjrecnhjwrihrurtcwwjhrihrihjrtowjridrct,
uhwrtjjohsrursnjueriu.-enjjrdoerdinrvotrfcnfitj,rvjrpja.ihjwreirctrei
dixxi ;ruhwrwicpxohsrvotrfuaj,rvjrsierhoqpxzrcfrevjrenjj,rxuzohsrvotrsch
wi hrcfihrevjrsnichw,ruerupicerdoyjrinrtomrzunwtrdniqrevjrpieeiqridrevj
enjjkrrEvjrpjunrtiihrauqjreirevjrenjj,ruhwr jrdixxi jwruerurwoteuhaj:revj
donterevohsrvjrwowrvjrteiffjwruerevjrsch,rtqjxerueroe,rpcerxjeroerxoj,
uhwrcfrvjrtanuqpxjtroheirevjrenjj,raxoqpohsrxo.jruraue,revicsvrti
qihtenictrvjuyzkrrOr utruqugjwruerevjrdixxz,rutrOrevicsveroe,ridrqzrquh,
uhwraicxwrhierdinrqzrxodjrtjjruhzevohsreirxucsvrue,reoxxrtjjohsrevjrpjun
sjercfrevjrenjj,r jruxxrniwjrhjunreirvoqk

 vjhr jrauqjreirevjrenjj,revjnjr utrDnowuzrsiericereirevjrtquxxrjhwridru
xunsjrpnuhav,ruhwrevjrpjunrsierupicervuxd- uzreirvoqkrrUtrtiihrutrevj
pjunrsiericereirevuerfuner vjnjrevjrxoqpridrevjrenjjr utr ju.jn,r“Vu!”
tuztrvjreirct,r“hi rzicrtjjrqjrejuavjjrevjrpjunrwuhaj:”rtirvjrpjsuh
bcqfohsruhwrtvu.ohsrevjrpicsv,ruer voavrevjrpjunrpjsuhreireieejn,rpce
teiiwrteoxx,ruhwrpjsuhreirxii.rpjvohwrvoq,reirtjjrvi rvjrtvicxwrsjerpua.;
evjh,rohwjjw,r jrwowrxucsvrvjuneoxzkrrPcerDnowuzrvuwrhierwihjr oevrvoqrpz
ursnjuerwjux;r vjhrtjjohsrvoqrteuhwrteoxx,rvjrauxxjwricereirvoqrusuoh,rut
odrvjrvuwrtcffitjwrevjrpjunraicxwrtfju.rJhsxotv,r“ vue,rzicraiqjrhi
dunevjn?rfnuzrzicraiqjrdunevjn;”rtirvjrxjderbcqfohsruhwrtvu.ohsrevjrenjj;
uhwrevjrpjun,rbcterutrodrvjrchwjnteiiwr vuervjrtuow,rwowraiqjrurxoeexj
dunevjn;revjhrvjrpjsuhrbcqfohsrusuoh,ruhwrevjrpjunrteiffjwrusuohkrr j
evicsverhi r utrursiiwreoqjreir.hia.rvoqrohrevjrvjuw,ruhwrauxxjwrei
Dnowuzreirteuhwrteoxxruhwr jrtvicxwrtviierevjrpjun:rpcervjranojwrice
junhjtexz,r“Iv,rfnuz!rrIv,rfnuz!rhirtviie,rqjrtviierpzruhwrevjh:”rvj
 icxwrvuyjrtuowrpz-uhw-pzkrrVi jyjn,reirtvinejhrevjrteinz,rDnowuzrwuhajw
tirqcav,ruhwrevjrpjunrteiiwrtireoa.xotv,revuer jrvuwrxucsvohsrjhicsv,rpce
teoxxraicxwrhieroqusohjr vuerevjrdjxxi r icxwrwi:rdinrdonter jrevicsvervj
wjfjhwjwrcfihrtvu.ohsrevjrpjunridd;ruhwr jrdichwrevjrpjunr utreiirachhohs
dinrevuereii;rdinrvjr icxwrhiersiricerdunrjhicsvreirpjrevni hrwi h,rpce
axchsrduter oevrvotrsnjuerpniuwraxu truhwrdjje,rtirevuer jraicxwrhie
oqusohjr vuer icxwrpjrevjrjhwridroe,ruhwr vuerevjrbjter icxwrpjruerxutek
PcerDnowuzrfcerctriceridrwicperlcoa.xz:rdinrtjjohsrevjrpjunraxohsrduterei
evjrpicsv,ruhwrevuervjr icxwrhierpjrfjntcuwjwreiraiqjruhzrdunevjn,r“ jxx,
 jxx,”rtuztrDnowuz,r“zicrhiraiqjrdunevjn,rqjrsi;rzicrhiraiqjreirqj,rqj
aiqjreirzic;”ruhwrcfihrevotrvjr jhericereirevjrtquxxjnrjhw,r vjnjroe
 icxwrpjhwr oevrvotr josve,ruhwrsjhexzrxjervoqtjxdrwi hrpzroe,rtxowohs
wi hrevjrpicsvreoxxrvjrauqjrhjunrjhicsvreirbcqfrwi hrihrvotrdjje,ruhw
u uzrvjrnuhreirvotrsch,reii.roercf,ruhwrteiiwrteoxxkrr“ jxx,”rtuowrOrei
voq,r“Dnowuz,r vuer oxxrzicrwirhi ?rr vzrwih’erzicrtviiervoq?”rr“Hi
tviie,”rtuztrDnowuz,r“hirzje;rqjrtviierhi ,rqjrhir.oxx;rqjrteuz,rsoyjrzic
ihjrqinjrxucsv:”ruhw,rohwjjw,rtirvjrwow;rdinr vjhrevjrpjunrtu rvotrjhjqz
sihj,rvjrauqjrpua.rdniqrevjrpicsv,r vjnjrvjrteiiw,rpcerwowroeryjnz
auceoictxz,rxii.ohsrpjvohwrvoqrjyjnzrtejf,ruhwraiqohsrpua. unwreoxxrvj
sieroheirevjrpiwzridrevjrenjj,revjh,r oevrevjrtuqjrvohwjnrjhwrdinjqite,
vjrauqjrwi hrevjrenjj,rsnutfohsroer oevrvotraxu t,ruhwrqiyohsrihjrdiierue
ureoqj,ryjnzrxjotcnjxzkrrUerevotrbchaecnj,ruhwrbcterpjdinjrvjraicxwrtje
votrvohwrdiierihrevjrsnichw,rDnowuzrtejffjwrcfraxitjreirvoq,raxuffjwrevj
qcggxjridrvotrfojajroheirvotrjun,ruhwrtviervoqrwjuwkrrEvjhrevjrniscj
ecnhjwrupicereirtjjrodr jrwowrhierxucsv;ruhwr vjhrvjrtu r jr jnjrfxjutjw
pzricnrxii.t,rvjrpjsuhreirxucsvryjnzrxicwkrr“Tir jr.oxxrpjunrohrqz
aichenz,”rtuztrDnowuzkrr“Tirzicr.oxxrevjq?”rtuztrO;r“ vz,rzicrvuyjrhi
schtk”—“Hi,”rtuztrvj,r“hirsch,rpcertviiersnjuerqcavrxihsrunni k”rrEvot
 utrursiiwrwoyjntoihreirct;rpcer jr jnjrteoxxrohrur oxwrfxuaj,ruhwricn
scowjryjnzrqcavrvcne,ruhwr vuereirwir jrvunwxzr.hj ;revjrvi xohsrid
 ixyjtrnuhrqcavrohrqzrvjuw;ruhw,rohwjjw,rjmajferevjrhiotjrOrihajrvjunwrih
evjrtvinjridrUdnoau,ridr voavrOrvuyjrtuowrtiqjevohsruxnjuwz,rOrhjyjn
vjunwruhzevohsrevuerdoxxjwrqjr oevrtirqcavrvinnink

Evjtjrevohst,ruhwrevjruffniuavridrhosve,rauxxjwrctridd,rinrjxtj,rut
Dnowuzr icxwrvuyjrvuwrct,r jrtvicxwrajneuohxzrvuyjreu.jhrevjrt.ohridrevot
qihtenictranjuecnjridd,r voavr utr inevrtuyohs;rpcer jrvuwrhjunrevnjj
xjuscjtreirsi,ruhwricnrscowjrvutejhjwrct;rtir jrxjdervoq,ruhwr jhe
din unwrihricnrbicnhjzk

Evjrsnichwr utrteoxxraiyjnjwr oevrthi ,revicsvrhiertirwjjfruhwrwuhsjnict
utrihrevjrqicheuoht;ruhwrevjrnuyjhictranjuecnjt,rutr jrvjunwrudejn unwt,
 jnjraiqjrwi hroheirevjrdinjteruhwrfxuohraichenz,rfnjttjwrpzrvchsjn,rei
tjj.rdinrdiiw,ruhwrvuwrwihjrursnjuerwjuxridrqotavojdrohrevjryoxxusjt,
 vjnjrevjzrtcnfnotjwrevjraichenzrfjifxj,r.oxxjwrursnjuerquhzridrevjon
tvjjfruhwrvintjt,ruhwrtiqjrfjifxjreiik

 jrvuwrihjrwuhsjnictrfxuajreirfutt,ruhwricnrscowjreixwrctrodrevjnjr jnj
qinjr ixyjtrohrevjraichenzr jrtvicxwrdohwrevjqrevjnj;ruhwrevotr utru
tquxxrfxuoh,rtcnnichwjwr oevr iiwtrihrjyjnzrtowj,ruhwrurxihs,rhunni 
wjdoxj,rinrxuhj,r voavr jr jnjreirfuttreirsjerevnicsvrevjr iiw,ruhwrevjh
 jrtvicxwraiqjreirevjryoxxusjr vjnjr jr jnjreirxiwsjk

Oer utr oevohrvuxd-uh-vicnridrtchtjer vjhr jrjhejnjwrevjr iiw,ruhwru
xoeexjrudejnrtchtjer vjhr jrauqjroheirevjrfxuoh:r jrqjer oevrhievohsroh
evjrdonter iiw,rjmajferevuerohrurxoeexjrfxuohr oevohrevjr iiw,r voavr ut
hierupiyjre irdcnxihstriyjn,r jrtu rdoyjrsnjuer ixyjtranittrevjrniuw,
dcxxrtfjjw,rihjrudejnruhievjn,rutrodrevjzrvuwrpjjhrohravutjridrtiqj
fnjz,ruhwrvuwroerohryoj ;revjzreii.rhirhieoajridrct,ruhwr jnjrsihjrice
idrtosverohrurdj rqiqjhetkrrCfihrevot,ricnrscowj,r vi,rpzrevjr uz,r ut
pcerurduohevjunejwrdjxxi ,rpowrctr.jjfrohrurnjuwzrfitecnj,rdinrvj
pjxojyjwrevjnjr jnjrqinjr ixyjtru-aiqohskrr jr.jfericnrunqtrnjuwz,ruhw
icnrjzjtrupicerct;rpcer jrtu rhirqinjr ixyjtreoxxr jrauqjrevnicsvrevue
 iiw,r voavr utrhjunrvuxdrurxjuscj,ruhwrjhejnjwrevjrfxuohkrrUtrtiihrut
 jrauqjroheirevjrfxuoh,r jrvuwriaautoihrjhicsvreirxii.rupicerctkrrEvj
donteripbjaer jrqjer oevr utrurwjuwrvintj;revuerotreirtuz,rurfiinrvintj
 voavrevjr ixyjtrvuwr.oxxjw,ruhwruerxjuterurwigjhridrevjqruer in.,r j
aicxwrhiertuzrjueohsrvoq,rpcerfoa.ohsrvotrpihjtrnuevjn;rdinrevjzrvuw
juejhrcfruxxrevjrdxjtvrpjdinjkr jrwowrhierevoh.rdoereirwotecnprevjqrue
evjonrdjute,rhjoevjnrwowrevjzreu.jrqcavrhieoajridrctkrrDnowuzr icxwrvuyj
xjerdxzruerevjq,rpcerOr icxwrhiertcddjnrvoqrpzruhzrqjuht;rdinrOrdichwr j
 jnjrxo.jreirvuyjrqinjrpctohjttrcfihricnrvuhwtrevuhr jr jnjru unjridk
 jrvuwrhiersihjrvuxdriyjnrevjrfxuohr vjhr jrpjsuhreirvjunrevjr ixyjt
vi xrohrevjr iiwrihricnrxjderohrurdnosvedcxrquhhjn,ruhwrfnjtjhexzrudejn
 jrtu rupicerurvchwnjwraiqohsrihrwonjaexzrei unwtrct,ruxxrohrurpiwz,ruhw
qiteridrevjqrohrurxohj,rutrnjscxunxzrutruhrunqzrwnu hrcfrpzrjmfjnojhajw
iddoajntkrrOrtaunajr.hj rohr vuerquhhjnreirnjajoyjrevjq,rpcerdichwrei
wnu ricntjxyjtrohruraxitjrxohjr utrevjrihxzr uz;rtir jrdinqjwrohru
qiqjhe;rpcerevuer jrqosverhiervuyjreiirqcavrohejnyux,rOrinwjnjwrevue
ihxzrjyjnzrievjnrquhrtvicxwrdonj,ruhwrevuerevjrievjnt,r virvuwrhie
donjw,rtvicxwrteuhwrnjuwzreirsoyjrevjqrurtjaihwryixxjzroqqjwouejxz,rod
evjzraiheohcjwreiruwyuhajrcfihrct;ruhwrevjhrevuerevitjrevuervuwrdonjwrue
dontertvicxwrhierfnjejhwreirxiuwrevjonrdctjjtrusuoh,rpcerteuhwrnjuwz,
jyjnzrihjr oevrurfoteix,rdinr jr jnjruxxrunqjwr oevrurdctjjruhwrurfuon
idrfoteixtrjuavrquh;rtir jr jnj,rpzrevotrqjeviw,rupxjreirdonjrtom
yixxjzt,rvuxdridrctruerureoqj;rvi jyjn,ruerfnjtjher jrvuwrhirhjajttoez;
dinrcfihrdonohsrevjrdonteryixxjz,revjrjhjqzrquwjrurdcxxrteif,rpjohs
ejnnodojwrutr jxxr oevrevjrhiotjrutr oevrevjrdonjkrrDicnridrevjqrpjohs
tvierohrevjrvjuw,rwniffjw;rtjyjnuxrievjntr jnjr ichwjw,ruhwr jhe
pxjjwohsridd,rutr jraicxwrtjjrpzrevjrthi krrOrdichwrevjzrteiffjw,rpce
wowrhieroqqjwouejxzrnjenjue;r vjnjcfih,rnjqjqpjnohsrevuerOrvuwrpjjhreixw
evuerevjrdojnajteranjuecnjtr jnjrejnnodojwruerevjryioajridrurquh,rO
auctjwruxxrevjraiqfuhzreirvuxxiirutrxicwrutrevjzraicxw;ruhwrOrdichwrevj
hieoihrhieruxeisjevjnrqoteu.jh;rdinrcfihricnrtvicerevjzrpjsuhreirnjeonj
uhwrecnhrupicekrrOrevjhrinwjnjwrurtjaihwryixxjzreirpjrdonjwrohrevjon
njun,r voavrfcerevjqreirevjrsuxxif,ruhwru uzrevjzr jhereirevjr iiwtk
Evotrsuyjrctrxjotcnjreiravunsjricnrfojajtrusuoh;ruhwrevuer jrqosverxitj
hireoqj,r jr.jfersiohs;rpcer jrvuwrpcerxoeexjrqinjrevuhrxiuwjwricn
dctjjt,ruhwrfcericntjxyjtrohrnjuwohjtt,r vjhr jrvjunwrurejnnopxjrhiotj
ohrevjrtuqjr iiwrihricnrxjde,rihxzrevueroer utrdunevjnrih unw,revjrtuqj
 uzr jr jnjreirsik

Evjrhosver utraiqohsrih,ruhwrevjrxosverpjsuhreirpjrwct.z,r voavrquwjroe
 intjrihricnrtowj;rpcerevjrhiotjrohanjutohs,r jraicxwrjutoxzrfjnajoyj
evueroer utrevjrvi xohsruhwrzjxxohsridrevitjrvjxxotvranjuecnjt;ruhwrihru
tcwwjhr jrfjnajoyjwrevnjjreniiftridr ixyjt,rihjrihricnrxjde,rihjrpjvohw
ct,ruhwrihjrohricnrdnihe,rtirevuer jrtjjqjwreirpjrtcnnichwjwr oevrevjq:
vi jyjn,rutrevjzrwowrhierduxxrcfihrct,r jr.jfericnr uzrdin unw,rutrdute
utr jraicxwrqu.jricnrvintjtrsi,r voav,revjr uzrpjohsryjnzrnicsv,r utrihxz
ursiiwrvunwreniekrrOhrevotrquhhjn,r jrauqjrohryoj ridrevjrjhenuhajridru
 iiw,revnicsvr voavr jr jnjreirfutt,ruerevjrdunevjnrtowjridrevjrfxuoh;
pcer jr jnjrsnjuexzrtcnfnotjw,r vjhraiqohsrhjunjnrevjrxuhjrinrfutt,r j
tu ruraihdctjwrhcqpjnridr ixyjtrteuhwohsrbcteruerevjrjhenuhajkrrIhru
tcwwjh,rueruhievjnrifjhohsridrevjr iiw,r jrvjunwrevjrhiotjridrursch,ruhw
xii.ohsrevuer uz,ricernctvjwrurvintj,r oevrurtuwwxjruhwrurpnowxjrihrvoq,
dxzohsrxo.jrevjr ohw,ruhwrtomejjhrinrtjyjhejjhr ixyjtrudejnrvoq,rdcxx
tfjjw:revjrvintjrvuwrevjruwyuheusjridrevjq;rpcerutr jrtcffitjwrevuervj
aicxwrhiervixwroeruerevuernuej,r jrwicpejwrhierpcerevjzr icxwrsjercfr oev
voqruerxute:rhirlcjteoihrpcerevjzrwowk

Pcervjnjr jrvuwrurqitervinnopxjrtosve;rdinrnowohsrcfreirevjrjhenuhaj
 vjnjrevjrvintjrauqjrice,r jrdichwrevjraunauttjtridruhievjnrvintjruhwrid
e irqjh,rwjyicnjwrpzrevjrnuyjhictranjuecnjt;ruhwrihjridrevjrqjhr utrhi
wicperevjrtuqjr viqr jrvjunwrdonjrevjrsch,rdinrevjnjrxuzrurschrbcterpz
voqrdonjwridd;rpcerutreirevjrquh,rvotrvjuwruhwrevjrcffjnrfuneridrvotrpiwz
 utrjuejhrcfkrrEvotrdoxxjwrctr oevrvinnin,ruhwr jr.hj rhier vueraicntjrei
eu.j;rpcerevjranjuecnjtrnjtixyjwrctrtiih,rdinrevjzrsuevjnjwrupicerct
fnjtjhexz,rohrvifjtridrfnjz;ruhwrOryjnoxzrpjxojyjrevjnjr jnjrevnjj
vchwnjwridrevjqkrrOervuffjhjw,ryjnzrqcavreiricnruwyuheusj,revueruerevj
jhenuhajroheirevjr iiw,rpcerurxoeexjr uzrdniqroe,revjnjrxuzrtiqjrxunsj
eoqpjn-enjjt,r voavrvuwrpjjhracerwi hrevjrtcqqjnrpjdinj,ruhwrOrtcffitj
xuzrevjnjrdinraunnousjkrrOrwnj rqzrxoeexjreniifrohruqihsrevitjrenjjt,ruhw
fxuaohsricntjxyjtrohrurxohjrpjvohwrihjrxihsrenjj,rOruwyotjwrevjqruxxrei
uxosve,ruhwr.jjfohsrevuerenjjrpjdinjrctrdinrurpnjute in.,reirteuhwrohru
enouhsxj,rinrevnjjrdnihet,rjhaxitohsricnrvintjtrohrevjrajhenjkrr jrwow
ti,ruhwroer utr jxxr jrwow;rdinrhjyjnr utrurqinjrdcnoictravunsjrevuhrevj
anjuecnjtrquwjrcfihrctrohrevotrfxuajkrrEvjzrauqjrihr oevrursni xohsr.ohw
idrhiotj,ruhwrqichejwrevjrfojajridreoqpjn,r voav,rutrOrtuow,r utricn
pnjute in.,rutrodrevjzr jnjrihxzrnctvohsrcfihrevjonrfnjz;ruhwrevotrdcnz
idrevjont,roertjjqt,r utrfnohaofuxxzriaautoihjwrpzrevjonrtjjohsricn
vintjtrpjvohwrctkrrOrinwjnjwricnrqjhreirdonjrutrpjdinj,rjyjnzrievjnrquh;
uhwrevjzreii.revjonruoqrtirtcnjrevuerevjzr.oxxjwrtjyjnuxridrevjr ixyjtrue
evjrdonteryixxjz;rpcerevjnjr utrurhjajttoezreir.jjfruraiheohcuxrdonohs,
dinrevjzrauqjrihrxo.jrwjyoxt,revitjrpjvohwrfctvohsrihrevitjrpjdinjk

 vjhr jrvuwrdonjwrurtjaihwryixxjzridricnrdctjjt,r jrevicsverevjzrteiffjw
urxoeexj,ruhwrOrvifjwrevjzr icxwrvuyjrsihjridd,rpceroer utrpcerurqiqjhe,
dinrievjntrauqjrdin unwrusuoh;rtir jrdonjwre iryixxjztridricnrfoteixt;
uhwrOrpjxojyjrohrevjtjrdicnrdonohstr jrvuwr.oxxjwrtjyjhejjhrinrjosvejjh
idrevjq,ruhwrxuqjwre oajrutrquhz,rzjerevjzrauqjrihrusuohkrrOr utrxievrei
tfjhwricnrtviereiirvuteoxz;rtirOrauxxjwrqzrtjnyuhe,rhierqzrquhrDnowuz,
dinrvjr utrpjeejnrjqfxizjw,rdin,r oevrevjrsnjuejterwjmejnoezroqusohupxj,
vjrvuwravunsjwrqzrdctjjruhwrvotri hr voxjr jr jnjrjhsusjw—pce,rutrOrtuow,
Orauxxjwrqzrievjnrquh,ruhwrsoyohsrvoqrurvinhridrfi wjn,rOrvuwrvoqrxuzru
enuohruxxruxihsrevjrfojajridreoqpjn,ruhwrxjeroerpjrurxunsjrenuohkrrVjrwow
ti,ruhwrvuwrpcerbctereoqjreirsjeru uz,r vjhrevjr ixyjtrauqjrcfreiroe,ruhw
tiqjrsiercfihroe,r vjhrO,rthuffohsruhrchavuhsjwrfoteixraxitjreirevj
fi wjn,rtjeroerihrdonj;revitjrevuer jnjrcfihrevjreoqpjnr jnjrtainavjw
 oevroe,ruhwrtomrinrtjyjhridrevjqrdjxx;rinrnuevjnrbcqfjwrohruqihsrctr oev
evjrdinajruhwrdnosveridrevjrdonj;r jrwjtfueavjwrevjtjrohruhrohteuhe,ruhw
evjrnjter jnjrtirdnosvejhjwr oevrevjrxosve,r voavrevjrhosve—dinroer ut
hi ryjnzrhjunrwun.—quwjrqinjrejnnopxjrevuerevjzrwnj rpua.rurxoeexj;rcfih
 voavrOrinwjnjwricnrxuterfoteixtreirpjrdonjwriddrohrihjryixxjz,ruhwrudejn
evuer jrsuyjrurtvice;rcfihrevotrevjr ixyjtrecnhjwreuox,ruhwr jrtuxxojw
oqqjwouejxzrcfihrhjunre jhezrxuqjrihjtrevuer jrdichwrtencssxohsrihrevj
snichw,ruhwrdjxxreiraceeohsrevjqr oevricnrt inwt,r voavruht jnjwricn
jmfjaeueoih,rdinrevjranzohsruhwrvi xohsrevjzrquwjr utrpjeejnrchwjnteiiw
pzrevjonrdjxxi t;rtirevuerevjzruxxrdxjwruhwrxjderctk

 jrvuw,rdonteruhwrxute,r.oxxjwrupicerevnjjtainjridrevjq,ruhwrvuwroerpjjh
wuzxosver jrvuwr.oxxjwrquhzrqinjkrrEvjrdojxwridrpueexjrpjohsrevct
axjunjw,r jrquwjrdin unwrusuoh,rdinr jrvuwrteoxxrhjunrurxjuscjreirsikrr j
vjunwrevjrnuyjhictranjuecnjtrvi xruhwrzjxxrohrevjr iiwtrutr jr jhe
tjyjnuxreoqjt,ruhwrtiqjeoqjtr jrduhaojwr jrtu rtiqjridrevjq;rpcerevjrthi 
wuggxohsricnrjzjt,r jr jnjrhierajneuohkrrOhrupiceruhrvicnrqinjr jrauqjrei
evjrei hr vjnjr jr jnjreirxiwsj,r voavr jrdichwrohrurejnnopxjrdnosveruhw
uxxrohrunqt;rdin,roertjjqt,revjrhosverpjdinjrevjr ixyjtruhwrtiqjrpjunt
vuwrpni.jhroheirevjryoxxusj,ruhwrfcerevjqrohrtcavrejnninrevuerevjzr jnj
ipxosjwreir.jjfrscunwrhosveruhwrwuz,rpcerjtfjaouxxzrohrevjrhosve,rei
fnjtjnyjrevjonraueexj,ruhwrohwjjwrevjonrfjifxjk

Evjrhjmerqinhohsricnrscowjr utrtiroxx,ruhwrvotrxoqptrt jxxjwrtirqcavr oev
evjrnuh.xohsridrvotre ir ichwt,revuervjraicxwrsirhirdunevjn;rtir jr jnj
ipxosjwreireu.jrurhj rscowjrvjnj,ruhwrsireirEicxictj,r vjnjr jrdichwru
 unqraxoquej,rurdncoedcx,rfxjutuheraichenz,ruhwrhirthi ,rhir ixyjt,rhin
uhzevohsrxo.jrevjq;rpcer vjhr jreixwricnrteinzruerEicxictj,revjzreixwrct
oer utrhievohsrpcer vuer utrinwohunzrohrevjrsnjuerdinjteruerevjrdiierid
evjrqicheuoht,rjtfjaouxxzr vjhrevjrthi rxuzrihrevjrsnichw;rpcerevjz
ohlconjwrqcavr vuer.ohwridrscowjr jrvuwrsier vir icxwryjhecnjreirpnohsrct
evuer uzrohrtcavrurtjyjnjrtjutih,ruhwreixwrctroer utrtcnfnotohsr jr jnj
hieruxxrwjyicnjwkrr vjhr jreixwrevjqrvi r jrfxuajwricntjxyjtruhwrevj
vintjtrohrevjrqowwxj,revjzrpxuqjwrctrjmajjwohsxz,ruhwreixwrctroer ut
dodezreirihjrpcer jrvuwrpjjhruxxrwjtenizjw,rdinroer utrevjrtosveridrevj
vintjtr voavrquwjrevjr ixyjtrtirdcnoict,rtjjohsrevjonrfnjz,ruhwrevuerue
ievjnreoqjtrevjzrunjrnjuxxzrudnuowridrursch;rpcerpjohsrjmajttoyjxz
vchsnz,ruhwrnusohsrihrevueruaaiche,revjrjusjnhjttreiraiqjruerevjrvintjt
vuwrquwjrevjqrtjhtjxjttridrwuhsjn,ruhwrevuerodr jrvuwrhierpzrevj
aiheohcuxrdonj,ruhwruerxuterpzrevjrtenueusjqridrevjrenuohridrfi wjn,
qutejnjwrevjq,roervuwrpjjhrsnjueriwwtrpcerevuer jrvuwrpjjhreinhrei
fojajt;r vjnjut,rvuwr jrpjjhraihejhereirvuyjrtuerteoxxrihrvintjpua.,ruhw
donjwrutrvintjqjh,revjzr icxwrhiervuyjreu.jhrevjrvintjtrtirqcavrdinrevjon
i h,r vjhrqjhr jnjrihrevjonrpua.t,rutrievjn otj;ruhwr oevux,revjzreixwrct
evueruerxute,rodr jrvuwrteiiwruxeisjevjn,ruhwrxjdericnrvintjt,revjzr icxw
vuyjrpjjhrtirjusjnreirvuyjrwjyicnjwrevjq,revuer jrqosvervuyjraiqjridd
tudj,rjtfjaouxxzrvuyohsricnrdonjunqtrohricnrvuhwt,rpjohsrtirquhzroh
hcqpjnkrrDinrqzrfune,rOr utrhjyjnrtirtjhtopxjridrwuhsjnrohrqzrxodj;rdin,
tjjohsrupiyjrevnjjrvchwnjwrwjyoxtraiqjrniunohsruhwrifjh-qicevjwreirwjyicn
ct,ruhwrvuyohsrhievohsreirtvjxejnrctrinrnjenjuerei,rOrsuyjrqztjxdriyjn
dinrxite;ruhw,rutroer ut,rOrpjxojyjrOrtvuxxrhjyjnraunjreiranittrevitj
qicheuohtrusuoh:rOrevoh.rOr icxwrqcavrnuevjnrsirurevictuhwrxjuscjtrpz
tju,revicsvrOr utrtcnjreirqjjer oevrurteinqrihajru- jj.k

Orvuyjrhievohsrchaiqqihreireu.jrhieoajridrohrqzrfuttusjrevnicsv
Dnuhaj—hievohsrpcer vuerievjnrenuyjxxjntrvuyjrsoyjhruhruaaicheridr oev
qcavrqinjruwyuheusjrevuhrOrauhkrrOrenuyjxxjwrdniqrEicxictjreirFunot,ruhw
 oeviceruhzraihtowjnupxjrteuzrauqjreirAuxuot,ruhwrxuhwjwrtudjruerWiyjn
evjr14evridrBuhcunz,rudejnrvuyohsrvuwrurtjyjnjraixwrtjutihreirenuyjxrohk

Or utrhi raiqjreirevjrajhenjridrqzrenuyjxt,ruhwrvuwrohrurxoeexjreoqjruxx
qzrhj -wotaiyjnjwrjteuejrtudjrupicerqj,revjrpoxxtridrjmavuhsjr voavrO
pnicsver oevrqjrvuyohsrpjjhracnnjhexzrfuowk

Qzrfnohaofuxrscowjruhwrfnoyz-aichtjxxinr utrqzrsiiwruhaojher owi ,r vi,
ohrsnueoecwjrdinrevjrqihjzrOrvuwrtjhervjn,revicsverhirfuohtreiirqcavrhin
aunjreiirsnjuereirjqfxizrdinrqj;ruhwrOrenctejwrvjnrtirjheonjxzrevuerOr ut
fjndjaexzrjutzrutreirevjrtjacnoezridrqzrjddjaet;ruhw,rohwjjw,rOr utryjnz
vuffzrdniqrevjrpjsohhohs,ruhwrhi reirevjrjhw,rohrevjrchtfieejwrohejsnoez
idrevotrsiiwrsjhexj iquhk

Uhwrhi ,rvuyohsrnjtixyjwreirwotfitjridrqzrfxuheueoihrohrevjrPnugoxt,rO
 niejreirqzrixwrdnojhwruerXotpih,r vi,rvuyohsriddjnjwroereirevjre i
qjnavuhet,revjrtcnyoyintridrqzrenctejjt,r virxoyjwrohrevjrPnugoxt,revjz
uaajfejwrevjriddjn,ruhwrnjqoeejwrevonez-evnjjrevictuhwrfojajtridrjosverei
urainnjtfihwjheridrevjontruerXotpihreirfuzrdinroek

Ohrnjecnh,rOrtoshjwrevjrohtencqjheridrtuxjrohrevjrdinqr voavrevjzrtjhe
dniqrXotpih,ruhwrtjheroereirqzrixwrquh,r virtjherqjrevjrpoxxtridrjmavuhsj
dinrevonez-e irevictuhwrjosvervchwnjwrfojajtridrjosverdinrevjrjteuej,
njtjnyohsrevjrfuzqjheridrihjrvchwnjwrqiowinjtrurzjunreirvoqr(evjrixwrquh)
wcnohsrvotrxodj,ruhwrdodezrqiowinjtrudejn unwtreirvotrtihrdinrvotrxodj,
 voavrOrvuwrfniqotjwrevjq,ruhwr voavrevjrfxuheueoihr utreirqu.jrsiiwrutru
njhe-avunsjkrrUhwrevctrOrvuyjrsoyjhrevjrdonterfuneridrurxodjridrdinechj
uhwruwyjhecnj—urxodjridrFniyowjhaj’travjlcjn- in.,ruhwridruryunojezr voav
evjr inxwr oxxrtjxwiqrpjrupxjreirtvi revjrxo.jrid;rpjsohhohsrdiixotvxz,
pceraxitohsrqcavrqinjrvuffoxzrevuhruhzrfuneridroerjyjnrsuyjrqjrxjuyjrti
qcavrutreirvifjrdink

Uhzrihjr icxwrevoh.revuerohrevotrteuejridraiqfxoauejwrsiiwrdinechjrOr ut
futernchhohsruhzrqinjrvugunwt—uhwrti,rohwjjw,rOrvuwrpjjh,rodrievjn
aonacqteuhajtrvuwraihacnnjw;rpcerOr utrohcnjwreirur uhwjnohsrxodj,rvuwrhi
duqoxz,rhinrquhzrnjxueoiht;rhin,rvi jyjnrnoav,rvuwrOraihenuaejwrdnjtv
ualcuoheuhaj;ruhwrevicsvrOrvuwrtixwrqzrjteuejrohrevjrPnugoxt,rzjerOraicxw
hier.jjfrevueraichenzriceridrqzrvjuw,ruhwrvuwrursnjuerqohwreirpjrcfihrevj
 ohsrusuoh;rjtfjaouxxzrOraicxwrhiernjtoterevjrtenihsrohaxohueoihrOrvuwrei
tjjrqzrotxuhw,ruhwreir.hi rodrevjrfiinrTfuhounwtr jnjrohrpjohsrevjnjkrrQz
encjrdnojhw,revjr owi ,rjunhjtexzrwottcuwjwrqjrdniqroe,ruhwrtirdun
fnjyuoxjwr oevrqj,revuerdinruxqitertjyjhrzjuntrtvjrfnjyjhejwrqzrnchhohs
upniuw,rwcnohsr voavreoqjrOreii.rqzre irhjfvj t,revjravoxwnjhridrihjrid
qzrpnievjnt,roheirqzraunj;revjrjxwjte,rvuyohsrtiqjevohsridrvotri h,rO
pnjwrcfrutrursjhexjquh,ruhwrsuyjrvoqrurtjeexjqjheridrtiqjruwwoeoihreirvot
jteuejrudejnrqzrwjajutjkrrEvjrievjnrOrfxuajwr oevrevjraufeuohridrurtvof;
uhwrudejnrdoyjrzjunt,rdohwohsrvoqrurtjhtopxj,rpixw,rjhejnfnotohsrzichs
djxxi ,rOrfcervoqroheirursiiwrtvof,ruhwrtjhervoqreirtju;ruhwrevotrzichs
djxxi rudejn unwtrwnj rqjroh,rutrixwrutrOr ut,reirdcnevjnruwyjhecnjt
qztjxdk

Ohrevjrqjuheoqj,rOrohrfunertjeexjwrqztjxdrvjnj;rdin,rdonteridruxx,rO
qunnojw,ruhwrevuerhierjoevjnreirqzrwotuwyuheusjrinrwottueotduaeoih,ruhw
vuwrevnjjravoxwnjh,re irtihtruhwrihjrwucsvejn;rpcerqzr odjrwzohs,ruhwrqz
hjfvj raiqohsrviqjr oevrsiiwrtcaajttrdniqruryizusjreirTfuoh,rqz
ohaxohueoihreirsirupniuw,ruhwrvotroqfinechoez,rfnjyuoxjw,ruhwrjhsusjwrqj
eirsirohrvotrtvofrutrurfnoyuejrenuwjnreirevjrJuterOhwojt;revotr utrohrevj
zjunr1694k

OhrevotryizusjrOryotoejwrqzrhj raixihzrohrevjrotxuhw,rtu rqzrtcaajttint
evjrTfuhounwt,rvuwrevjrixwrteinzridrevjonrxoyjtruhwridrevjryoxxuohtrO
xjderevjnj;rvi ruerdonterevjzrohtcxejwrevjrfiinrTfuhounwt,rvi revjz
udejn unwtrusnjjw,rwotusnjjw,rchoejw,rtjfunuejw,ruhwrvi ruerxuterevj
Tfuhounwtr jnjripxosjwreirctjryoixjhajr oevrevjq;rvi revjzr jnjrtcpbjaejw
eirevjrTfuhounwt,rvi rvihjtexzrevjrTfuhounwtrctjwrevjq—urvoteinz,rodroe
 jnjrjhejnjwrohei,rutrdcxxridryunojezruhwr ihwjndcxruaaowjhetrutrqzri h
fune—funeoacxunxz,ruxti,rutreirevjonrpueexjtr oevrevjrAunoppjuht,r vi
xuhwjwrtjyjnuxreoqjtrcfihrevjrotxuhw,ruhwrutreirevjroqfniyjqjherevjzrquwj
cfihrevjrotxuhwroetjxd,ruhwrvi rdoyjridrevjqrquwjruhrueejqfercfihrevj
quohxuhw,ruhwrpnicsveru uzrjxjyjhrqjhruhwrdoyjr iqjhrfnotihjnt,rpzr voav,
uerqzraiqohs,rOrdichwrupicere jhezrzichsravoxwnjhrihrevjrotxuhwk

VjnjrOrteuzjwrupicere jhezrwuzt,rxjderevjqrtcffxojtridruxxrhjajttunz
evohst,ruhwrfuneoacxunxzridrunqt,rfi wjn,rtvie,raxievjt,reiixt,ruhwre i
 in.qjh,r voavrOrvuwrpnicsverdniqrJhsxuhwr oevrqj,ryogkruraunfjhejnruhwru
tqoevk

Pjtowjtrevot,rOrtvunjwrevjrxuhwtroheirfunetr oevrevjq,rnjtjnyjwreirqztjxd
evjrfnifjnezridrevjr vixj,rpcersuyjrevjqrtcavrfunetrnjtfjaeoyjxzrutrevjz
usnjjwrih;ruhwrvuyohsrtjeexjwruxxrevohstr oevrevjq,ruhwrjhsusjwrevjqrhie
eirxjuyjrevjrfxuaj,rOrxjderevjqrevjnjk

DniqrevjhajrOreicavjwruerevjrPnugoxt,rdniqr vjhajrOrtjherurpun.,r voavrO
picsverevjnj,r oevrqinjrfjifxjreirevjrotxuhw;ruhwrohroe,rpjtowjtrievjn
tcffxojt,rOrtjhertjyjhr iqjh,rpjohsrtcavrutrOrdichwrfnifjnrdinrtjnyoaj,
inrdinr oyjtreirtcavrutr icxwreu.jrevjqkrrUtreirevjrJhsxotvqjh,rO
fniqotjwreirtjhwrevjqrtiqjr iqjhrdniqrJhsxuhw,r oevrursiiwraunsirid
hjajttunojt,rodrevjzr icxwruffxzrevjqtjxyjtreirfxuheohs— voavrO
udejn unwtraicxwrhierfjndinqkrrEvjrdjxxi trfniyjwryjnzrvihjteruhw
woxosjherudejnrevjzr jnjrqutejnjwruhwrvuwrevjonrfnifjneojtrtjerufunerdin
evjqkrrOrtjherevjq,ruxti,rdniqrevjrPnugoxt,rdoyjrai t,revnjjridrevjq
pjohsrposr oevrauxd,rtiqjrtvjjf,ruhwrtiqjrvist,r voavr vjhrOrauqjrusuoh
 jnjraihtowjnupxzrohanjutjwk

Pceruxxrevjtjrevohst,r oevruhruaaichervi revnjjrvchwnjwrAunoppjjtrauqj
uhwrohyuwjwrevjq,ruhwrncohjwrevjonrfxuheueoiht,ruhwrvi revjzrdicsver oev
evuer vixjrhcqpjnre oaj,ruhwr jnjruerdonterwjdjuejw,ruhwrihjridrevjq
.oxxjw;rpceruerxute,rurteinqrwjtenizohsrevjonrjhjqojt’rauhijt,revjz
duqotvjwrinrwjtenizjwruxqiteruxxrevjrnjte,ruhwrnjhj jwruhwrnjaiyjnjwrevj
fittjttoihridrevjonrfxuheueoih,ruhwrteoxxrxoyjwrcfihrevjrotxuhwk

Uxxrevjtjrevohst,r oevrtiqjryjnzrtcnfnotohsrohaowjhetrohrtiqjrhj 
uwyjhecnjtridrqzri h,rdinrejhrzjuntrqinj,rOrtvuxxrsoyjrurdunevjnruaaiche
idrohrevjrTjaihwrFuneridrqzrTeinzk




***JHWrIDrEVJrFNIBJAErSCEJHPJNSrJPII.rEVJrXODJrUHWrUWYJHECNJTrIDrNIPOHTIH
ANCTIJ***


*******rEvotrdoxjrtvicxwrpjrhuqjwr521-0kemerinr521-0kgofr*******


Evotruhwruxxruttiaouejwrdoxjtridryunoictrdinquetr oxxrpjrdichwroh:
veef://   kscejhpjnskins/wont/5/2/521


Cfwuejwrjwoeoihtr oxxrnjfxuajrevjrfnjyoictrihj--evjrixwrjwoeoihtr oxx
pjrnjhuqjwk

Anjueohsrevjr in.trdniqrfnoherjwoeoihtrhierfniejaejwrpzrCkTkraifznosve
xu rqjuhtrevuerhirihjri htrurChoejwrTeuejtraifznosverohrevjtjr in.t,
tirevjrDichwueoihr(uhwrzic!)rauhraifzruhwrwotenopcejroerohrevjrChoejw
Teuejtr oevicerfjnqottoihruhwr oevicerfuzohsraifznosve
nizuxeojtkrTfjaouxrncxjt,rtjerdinevrohrevjrSjhjnuxrEjnqtridrCtjrfune
idrevotrxoajhtj,ruffxzreiraifzohsruhwrwotenopceohsrFnibjae
Scejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.treirfniejaerevjrFNIBJAErSCEJHPJNS-eq
aihajferuhwrenuwjqun.krFnibjaerScejhpjnsrotrurnjsotejnjwrenuwjqun.,
uhwrquzrhierpjrctjwrodrzicravunsjrdinrevjrjPii.t,rchxjttrzicrnjajoyj
tfjaodoarfjnqottoihkrOdrzicrwirhieravunsjruhzevohsrdinraifojtridrevot
jPii.,raiqfxzohsr oevrevjrncxjtrotryjnzrjutzkrZicrquzrctjrevotrjPii.
dinrhjunxzruhzrfcnfitjrtcavrutranjueoihridrwjnoyueoyjr in.t,rnjfinet,
fjndinquhajtruhwrnjtjunavkrEvjzrquzrpjrqiwodojwruhwrfnohejwruhwrsoyjh
u uz--zicrquzrwirfnuaeoauxxzrUHZEVOHSrohrevjrChoejwrTeuejtr oevrjPii.t
hierfniejaejwrpzrCkTkraifznosverxu krNjwotenopceoihrotrtcpbjaereirevj
enuwjqun.rxoajhtj,rjtfjaouxxzraiqqjnaouxrnjwotenopceoihk

TEUNE:rDCXXrXOAJHTJ

EVJrDCXXrFNIBJAErSCEJHPJNSrXOAJHTJ
FXJUTJrNJUWrEVOTrPJDINJrZICrWOTENOPCEJrINrCTJrEVOTr IN.

EirfniejaerevjrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrqottoihridrfniqieohsrevjrdnjj
wotenopceoihridrjxjaenihoar in.t,rpzrctohsrinrwotenopceohsrevotr in.
(inruhzrievjnr in.ruttiaouejwrohruhzr uzr oevrevjrfvnutjr"Fnibjae
Scejhpjns"),rzicrusnjjreiraiqfxzr oevruxxrevjrejnqtridrevjrDcxx
FnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrXoajhtjruyuoxupxjr oevrevotrdoxjrinrihxohjrue
   kscejhpjnskins/xoajhtjk

Tjaeoihr1krSjhjnuxrEjnqtridrCtjruhwrNjwotenopceohsrFnibjae
Scejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.t

1kUkrPzrnjuwohsrinrctohsruhzrfuneridrevotrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eq
jxjaenihoar in.,rzicrohwoauejrevuerzicrvuyjrnjuw,rchwjnteuhw,rusnjjrei
uhwruaajferuxxrevjrejnqtridrevotrxoajhtjruhwrohejxxjaecuxrfnifjnez
(enuwjqun./aifznosve)rusnjjqjhekrOdrzicrwirhierusnjjreirupowjrpzruxx
evjrejnqtridrevotrusnjjqjhe,rzicrqcterajutjrctohsruhwrnjecnhrin
wjtenizruxxraifojtridrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.trohrzicn
fittjttoihkrOdrzicrfuowrurdjjrdinripeuohohsruraifzridrinruaajttreiru
FnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.ruhwrzicrwirhierusnjjreirpjrpichw
pzrevjrejnqtridrevotrusnjjqjhe,rzicrquzripeuohrurnjdchwrdniqrevj
fjntihrinrjheoezreir viqrzicrfuowrevjrdjjrutrtjerdinevrohrfunusnufv
1kJk8k

1kPkr"FnibjaerScejhpjns"rotrurnjsotejnjwrenuwjqun.krOerquzrihxzrpj
ctjwrihrinruttiaouejwrohruhzr uzr oevruhrjxjaenihoar in.rpzrfjifxjr vi
usnjjreirpjrpichwrpzrevjrejnqtridrevotrusnjjqjhekrEvjnjrunjrurdj 
evohstrevuerzicrauhrwir oevrqiterFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.t
jyjhr oeviceraiqfxzohsr oevrevjrdcxxrejnqtridrevotrusnjjqjhekrTjj
funusnufvr1kArpjxi krEvjnjrunjrurxieridrevohstrzicrauhrwir oevrFnibjae
Scejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.trodrzicrdixxi revjrejnqtridrevot
usnjjqjheruhwrvjxfrfnjtjnyjrdnjjrdcecnjruaajttreirFnibjaerScejhpjns-eq
jxjaenihoar in.tkrTjjrfunusnufvr1kJrpjxi k

1kAkrEvjrFnibjaerScejhpjnsrXoejnunzrUnavoyjrDichwueoihr("evj
Dichwueoih"rinrFSXUD),ri htruraiqfoxueoihraifznosverohrevjraixxjaeoih
idrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.tkrHjunxzruxxrevjrohwoyowcux
 in.trohrevjraixxjaeoihrunjrohrevjrfcpxoarwiquohrohrevjrChoejw
TeuejtkrOdruhrohwoyowcuxr in.rotrchfniejaejwrpzraifznosverxu rohrevj
ChoejwrTeuejtruhwrzicrunjrxiauejwrohrevjrChoejwrTeuejt,r jrwirhie
axuoqrurnosvereirfnjyjherzicrdniqraifzohs,rwotenopceohs,rfjndinqohs,
wotfxuzohsrinranjueohsrwjnoyueoyjr in.trputjwrihrevjr in.rutrxihsrut
uxxrnjdjnjhajtreirFnibjaerScejhpjnsrunjrnjqiyjwkrIdraicntj,r jrvifj
evuerzicr oxxrtcffinerevjrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrqottoihridrfniqieohs
dnjjruaajttreirjxjaenihoar in.trpzrdnjjxzrtvunohsrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eq
 in.trohraiqfxouhajr oevrevjrejnqtridrevotrusnjjqjherdinr.jjfohsrevj
FnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrhuqjruttiaouejwr oevrevjr in.krZicrauhrjutoxz
aiqfxzr oevrevjrejnqtridrevotrusnjjqjherpzr.jjfohsrevotr in.rohrevj
tuqjrdinquer oevroetrueeuavjwrdcxxrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrXoajhtjr vjh
zicrtvunjroer oeviceravunsjr oevrievjntk

1kWkrEvjraifznosverxu tridrevjrfxuajr vjnjrzicrunjrxiauejwruxtirsiyjnh
 vuerzicrauhrwir oevrevotr in.krAifznosverxu trohrqiteraichenojtrunj
ohruraihteuherteuejridravuhsjkrOdrzicrunjricetowjrevjrChoejwrTeuejt,
avja.revjrxu tridrzicnraichenzrohruwwoeoihreirevjrejnqtridrevot
usnjjqjherpjdinjrwi hxiuwohs,raifzohs,rwotfxuzohs,rfjndinqohs,
wotenopceohsrinranjueohsrwjnoyueoyjr in.trputjwrihrevotr in.rinruhz
ievjnrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqr in.krEvjrDichwueoihrqu.jtrhi
njfnjtjheueoihtraihajnhohsrevjraifznosverteuectridruhzr in.rohruhz
aichenzricetowjrevjrChoejwrTeuejtk

1kJkrChxjttrzicrvuyjrnjqiyjwruxxrnjdjnjhajtreirFnibjaerScejhpjns:

1kJk1krEvjrdixxi ohsrtjhejhaj,r oevruaeoyjrxoh.trei,rinrievjn
oqqjwouejruaajttrei,revjrdcxxrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrXoajhtjrqcteruffjun
fniqohjhexzr vjhjyjnruhzraifzridrurFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqr in.r(uhzr in.
ihr voavrevjrfvnutjr"FnibjaerScejhpjns"ruffjunt,rinr oevr voavrevj
fvnutjr"FnibjaerScejhpjns"rotruttiaouejw)rotruaajttjw,rwotfxuzjw,
fjndinqjw,ryoj jw,raifojwrinrwotenopcejw:

rrEvotrjPii.rotrdinrevjrctjridruhzihjruhz vjnjrohrevjrChoejwrTeuejtruhw
rrqiterievjnrfunetridrevjr inxwruerhiraiteruhwr oevruxqiterhi
rrnjtenoaeoihtr vuetijyjnkrZicrquzraifzroe,rsoyjroeru uzrinrnj-ctjroe
rrchwjnrevjrejnqtridrevjrFnibjaerScejhpjnsrXoajhtjrohaxcwjwr oevrevot
rrjPii.rinrihxohjruer   kscejhpjnskinskrOdrzicrunjrhierxiauejwrohrevj
rrChoejwrTeuejt,rzic'xxrvuyjreiravja.revjrxu tridrevjraichenzr vjnjrzic
rrunjrxiauejwrpjdinjrctohsrevotrjpii.k

1kJk2krOdruhrohwoyowcuxrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.rot
wjnoyjwrdniqrejmetrhierfniejaejwrpzrCkTkraifznosverxu r(wijtrhie
aiheuohrurhieoajrohwoaueohsrevueroerotrfitejwr oevrfjnqottoihridrevj
aifznosvervixwjn),revjr in.rauhrpjraifojwruhwrwotenopcejwreiruhzihjroh
evjrChoejwrTeuejtr oevicerfuzohsruhzrdjjtrinravunsjtkrOdrzicrunj
njwotenopceohsrinrfniyowohsruaajttreirur in.r oevrevjrfvnutjr"Fnibjae
Scejhpjns"ruttiaouejwr oevrinruffjunohsrihrevjr in.,rzicrqcteraiqfxz
joevjnr oevrevjrnjlconjqjhetridrfunusnufvtr1kJk1revnicsvr1kJk7rin
ipeuohrfjnqottoihrdinrevjrctjridrevjr in.ruhwrevjrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eq
enuwjqun.rutrtjerdinevrohrfunusnufvtr1kJk8rinr1kJk9k

1kJk3krOdruhrohwoyowcuxrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.rotrfitejw
 oevrevjrfjnqottoihridrevjraifznosvervixwjn,rzicnrctjruhwrwotenopceoih
qcteraiqfxzr oevrpievrfunusnufvtr1kJk1revnicsvr1kJk7ruhwruhz
uwwoeoihuxrejnqtroqfitjwrpzrevjraifznosvervixwjnkrUwwoeoihuxrejnqt
 oxxrpjrxoh.jwreirevjrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrXoajhtjrdinruxxr in.t
fitejwr oevrevjrfjnqottoihridrevjraifznosvervixwjnrdichwruerevj
pjsohhohsridrevotr in.k

1kJk4krWirhierchxoh.rinrwjeuavrinrnjqiyjrevjrdcxxrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eq
Xoajhtjrejnqtrdniqrevotr in.,rinruhzrdoxjtraiheuohohsrurfuneridrevot
 in.rinruhzrievjnr in.ruttiaouejwr oevrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqk

1kJk5krWirhieraifz,rwotfxuz,rfjndinq,rwotenopcejrinrnjwotenopcejrevot
jxjaenihoar in.,rinruhzrfuneridrevotrjxjaenihoar in.,r oevice
fniqohjhexzrwotfxuzohsrevjrtjhejhajrtjerdinevrohrfunusnufvr1kJk1r oev
uaeoyjrxoh.trinroqqjwouejruaajttreirevjrdcxxrejnqtridrevjrFnibjae
Scejhpjns-eqrXoajhtjk

1kJk6krZicrquzraihyjnereiruhwrwotenopcejrevotr in.rohruhzrpohunz,
aiqfnjttjw,rqun.jwrcf,rhihfnifnojeunzrinrfnifnojeunzrdinq,rohaxcwohs
uhzr inwrfniajttohsrinrvzfjnejmerdinqkrVi jyjn,rodrzicrfniyowjruaajtt
eirinrwotenopcejraifojtridrurFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqr in.rohrurdinque
ievjnrevuhr"FxuohrYuhoxxurUTAOO"rinrievjnrdinquerctjwrohrevjriddoaoux
yjntoihrfitejwrihrevjriddoaouxrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqr jprtoej
(   kscejhpjnskins),rzicrqcte,ruerhiruwwoeoihuxraite,rdjjrinrjmfjhtj
eirevjrctjn,rfniyowjruraifz,rurqjuhtridrjmfineohsruraifz,rinrurqjuht
idripeuohohsruraifzrcfihrnjlcjte,ridrevjr in.rohroetrinosohuxr"Fxuoh
YuhoxxurUTAOO"rinrievjnrdinqkrUhzruxejnhuejrdinquerqcterohaxcwjrevj
dcxxrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrXoajhtjrutrtfjaodojwrohrfunusnufvr1kJk1k

1kJk7krWirhieravunsjrurdjjrdinruaajttrei,ryoj ohs,rwotfxuzohs,
fjndinqohs,raifzohsrinrwotenopceohsruhzrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqr in.t
chxjttrzicraiqfxzr oevrfunusnufvr1kJk8rinr1kJk9k

1kJk8krZicrquzravunsjrurnjutihupxjrdjjrdinraifojtridrinrfniyowohs
uaajttreirinrwotenopceohsrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.t
fniyowjwrevue

*rZicrfuzrurnizuxezrdjjridr20%ridrevjrsnittrfnidoetrzicrwjnoyjrdniq
rrevjrctjridrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqr in.trauxacxuejwrctohsrevjrqjeviw
rrzicruxnjuwzrctjreirauxacxuejrzicnruffxoaupxjreumjtkrEvjrdjjrotri jw
rreirevjri hjnridrevjrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrenuwjqun.,rpcervjrvut
rrusnjjwreirwihuejrnizuxeojtrchwjnrevotrfunusnufvreirevjrFnibjae
rrScejhpjnsrXoejnunzrUnavoyjrDichwueoihkrNizuxezrfuzqjhetrqcterpjrfuow
rr oevohr60rwuztrdixxi ohsrjuavrwuejrihr voavrzicrfnjfunjr(inrunj
rrxjsuxxzrnjlconjwreirfnjfunj)rzicnrfjnoiwoareumrnjecnhtkrNizuxez
rrfuzqjhetrtvicxwrpjraxjunxzrqun.jwrutrtcavruhwrtjhereirevjrFnibjae
rrScejhpjnsrXoejnunzrUnavoyjrDichwueoihruerevjruwwnjttrtfjaodojwroh
rrTjaeoihr4,r"OhdinqueoihrupicerwihueoihtreirevjrFnibjaerScejhpjns
rrXoejnunzrUnavoyjrDichwueoihk"

*rZicrfniyowjrurdcxxrnjdchwridruhzrqihjzrfuowrpzrurctjnr virhieodojt
rrzicrohr noeohsr(inrpzrj-quox)r oevohr30rwuztridrnjajoferevuert/vj
rrwijtrhierusnjjreirevjrejnqtridrevjrdcxxrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eq
rrXoajhtjkrZicrqcternjlconjrtcavrurctjnreirnjecnhrinrwjtenizruxx
rraifojtridrevjr in.trfittjttjwrohrurfvztoauxrqjwocqruhwrwotaiheohcj
rruxxrctjridruhwruxxruaajttreirievjnraifojtridrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eq
rr in.tk

*rZicrfniyowj,rohruaainwuhajr oevrfunusnufvr1kDk3,rurdcxxrnjdchwrid
rruhzrqihjzrfuowrdinrur in.rinrurnjfxuajqjheraifz,rodrurwjdjaerohrevj
rrjxjaenihoar in.rotrwotaiyjnjwruhwrnjfinejwreirzicr oevohr90rwuztrid
rrnjajoferidrevjr in.k

*rZicraiqfxzr oevruxxrievjnrejnqtridrevotrusnjjqjherdinrdnjj
rrwotenopceoihridrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqr in.tk

1kJk9krOdrzicr otvreiravunsjrurdjjrinrwotenopcejrurFnibjae
Scejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.rinrsnicfridr in.trihrwoddjnjherejnqtrevuh
unjrtjerdinevrohrevotrusnjjqjhe,rzicrqcteripeuohrfjnqottoihrohr noeohs
dniqrpievrevjrFnibjaerScejhpjnsrXoejnunzrUnavoyjrDichwueoihruhwrEvj
FnibjaerScejhpjnsrEnuwjqun.rXXA,revjri hjnridrevjrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eq
enuwjqun.krAiheuaerevjrDichwueoihrutrtjerdinevrohrTjaeoihr3rpjxi k

1kDk

1kDk1krFnibjaerScejhpjnsryixchejjntruhwrjqfxizjjtrjmfjhwraihtowjnupxj
jddinereirowjheodz,rwiraifznosvernjtjunavrih,renuhtanopjruhwrfniidnjuw
 in.trhierfniejaejwrpzrCkTkraifznosverxu rohranjueohsrevjrFnibjae
Scejhpjns-eqraixxjaeoihkrWjtfoejrevjtjrjddinet,rFnibjaerScejhpjns-eq
jxjaenihoar in.t,ruhwrevjrqjwocqrihr voavrevjzrquzrpjrteinjw,rquz
aiheuohr"Wjdjaet,"rtcavrut,rpcerhierxoqoejwrei,rohaiqfxjej,rohuaacnuej
inrainncferwueu,renuhtanofeoihrjnnint,ruraifznosverinrievjn
ohejxxjaecuxrfnifjnezrohdnohsjqjhe,rurwjdjaeoyjrinrwuqusjwrwot.rin
ievjnrqjwocq,ruraiqfcejnryonct,rinraiqfcejnraiwjtrevuerwuqusjrin
auhhierpjrnjuwrpzrzicnrjlcofqjhek

1kDk2krXOQOEJWr UNNUHEZ,rWOTAXUOQJNrIDrWUQUSJTr-rJmajferdinrevjr"Nosve
idrNjfxuajqjherinrNjdchw"rwjtanopjwrohrfunusnufvr1kDk3,revjrFnibjae
ScejhpjnsrXoejnunzrUnavoyjrDichwueoih,revjri hjnridrevjrFnibjae
Scejhpjns-eqrenuwjqun.,ruhwruhzrievjnrfunezrwotenopceohsrurFnibjae
Scejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.rchwjnrevotrusnjjqjhe,rwotaxuoqruxx
xoupoxoezreirzicrdinrwuqusjt,raitetruhwrjmfjhtjt,rohaxcwohsrxjsux
djjtkrZICrUSNJJrEVUErZICrVUYJrHIrNJQJWOJTrDINrHJSXOSJHAJ,rTENOAE
XOUPOXOEZ,rPNJUAVrIDr UNNUHEZrINrPNJUAVrIDrAIHENUAErJMAJFErEVITJ
FNIYOWJWrOHrFUNUSNUFVr1kDk3krZICrUSNJJrEVUErEVJrDICHWUEOIH,rEVJ
ENUWJQUN.rI HJN,rUHWrUHZrWOTENOPCEINrCHWJNrEVOTrUSNJJQJHEr OXXrHIErPJ
XOUPXJrEIrZICrDINrUAECUX,rWONJAE,rOHWONJAE,rAIHTJLCJHEOUX,rFCHOEOYJrIN
OHAOWJHEUXrWUQUSJTrJYJHrODrZICrSOYJrHIEOAJrIDrEVJrFITTOPOXOEZrIDrTCAV
WUQUSJk

1kDk3krXOQOEJWrNOSVErIDrNJFXUAJQJHErINrNJDCHWr-rOdrzicrwotaiyjnru
wjdjaerohrevotrjxjaenihoar in.r oevohr90rwuztridrnjajoyohsroe,rzicrauh
njajoyjrurnjdchwridrevjrqihjzr(odruhz)rzicrfuowrdinroerpzrtjhwohsru
 noeejhrjmfxuhueoihreirevjrfjntihrzicrnjajoyjwrevjr in.rdniqkrOdrzic
njajoyjwrevjr in.rihrurfvztoauxrqjwocq,rzicrqcternjecnhrevjrqjwocq
 oevrzicnr noeejhrjmfxuhueoihkrEvjrfjntihrinrjheoezrevuerfniyowjwrzic
 oevrevjrwjdjaeoyjr in.rquzrjxjaereirfniyowjrurnjfxuajqjheraifzroh
xojcridrurnjdchwkrOdrzicrnjajoyjwrevjr in.rjxjaenihoauxxz,revjrfjntih
inrjheoezrfniyowohsroereirzicrquzraviitjreirsoyjrzicrurtjaihw
iffinechoezreirnjajoyjrevjr in.rjxjaenihoauxxzrohrxojcridrurnjdchwkrOd
evjrtjaihwraifzrotruxtirwjdjaeoyj,rzicrquzrwjquhwrurnjdchwrohr noeohs
 oevicerdcnevjnriffinechoeojtreirdomrevjrfnipxjqk

1kDk4krJmajferdinrevjrxoqoejwrnosveridrnjfxuajqjherinrnjdchwrtjerdinev
ohrfunusnufvr1kDk3,revotr in.rotrfniyowjwreirzicr'UT-OT',r OEVrHI
IEVJNr UNNUHEOJTrIDrUHZr.OHW,rJMFNJTTrINrOQFXOJW,rOHAXCWOHSrPCErHIE
XOQOEJWrEIr UNNUHEOJTrIDrQJNAVUHEUPOXOEZrINrDOEHJTTrDINrUHZrFCNFITJk

1kDk5krTiqjrteuejtrwirhieruxxi rwotaxuoqjntridrajneuohroqfxojw
 unnuheojtrinrevjrjmaxctoihrinrxoqoeueoihridrajneuohrezfjtrid
wuqusjtkrOdruhzrwotaxuoqjnrinrxoqoeueoihrtjerdinevrohrevotrusnjjqjhe
yoixuejtrevjrxu ridrevjrteuejruffxoaupxjreirevotrusnjjqjhe,revj
usnjjqjhertvuxxrpjrohejnfnjejwreirqu.jrevjrqumoqcqrwotaxuoqjnrin
xoqoeueoihrfjnqoeejwrpzrevjruffxoaupxjrteuejrxu krEvjrohyuxowoezrin
chjhdinajupoxoezridruhzrfniyotoihridrevotrusnjjqjhertvuxxrhieryiowrevj
njquohohsrfniyotoihtk

1kDk6krOHWJQHOEZr-rZicrusnjjreirohwjqhodzruhwrvixwrevjrDichwueoih,revj
enuwjqun.ri hjn,ruhzrusjherinrjqfxizjjridrevjrDichwueoih,ruhzihj
fniyowohsraifojtridrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.troh
uaainwuhajr oevrevotrusnjjqjhe,ruhwruhzryixchejjntruttiaouejwr oevrevj
fniwcaeoih,rfniqieoihruhwrwotenopceoihridrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eq
jxjaenihoar in.t,rvunqxjttrdniqruxxrxoupoxoez,raitetruhwrjmfjhtjt,
ohaxcwohsrxjsuxrdjjt,revuerunotjrwonjaexzrinrohwonjaexzrdniqruhzrid
evjrdixxi ohsr voavrzicrwirinrauctjreiriaacn:r(u)rwotenopceoihridrevot
inruhzrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqr in.,r(p)ruxejnueoih,rqiwodoaueoih,rin
uwwoeoihtrinrwjxjeoihtreiruhzrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqr in.,ruhwr(a)ruhz
Wjdjaerzicrauctjk

Tjaeoihr2krOhdinqueoihrupicerevjrQottoihridrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eq

FnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrotrtzhihzqictr oevrevjrdnjjrwotenopceoihrid
jxjaenihoar in.trohrdinquetrnjuwupxjrpzrevjr owjteryunojezrid
aiqfcejntrohaxcwohsriptixjej,rixw,rqowwxj-usjwruhwrhj raiqfcejntkrOe
jmotetrpjauctjridrevjrjddinetridrvchwnjwtridryixchejjntruhwrwihueoiht
dniqrfjifxjrohruxxr ux.tridrxodjk

Yixchejjntruhwrdohuhaouxrtcffinereirfniyowjryixchejjntr oevrevj
uttoteuhajrevjzrhjjwrunjranoeoauxreirnjuavohsrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eq't
siuxtruhwrjhtcnohsrevuerevjrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqraixxjaeoihr oxx
njquohrdnjjxzruyuoxupxjrdinrsjhjnueoihtreiraiqjkrOhr2001,revjrFnibjae
ScejhpjnsrXoejnunzrUnavoyjrDichwueoihr utranjuejwreirfniyowjrurtjacnj
uhwrfjnquhjherdcecnjrdinrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqruhwrdcecnj
sjhjnueoihtkrEirxjunhrqinjrupicerevjrFnibjaerScejhpjnsrXoejnunz
UnavoyjrDichwueoihruhwrvi rzicnrjddinetruhwrwihueoihtrauhrvjxf,rtjj
Tjaeoihtr3ruhwr4ruhwrevjrDichwueoihrohdinqueoihrfusjrue
   kscejhpjnskins

Tjaeoihr3krOhdinqueoihrupicerevjrFnibjaerScejhpjnsrXoejnunz
UnavoyjrDichwueoih

EvjrFnibjaerScejhpjnsrXoejnunzrUnavoyjrDichwueoihrotrurhihrfnidoe
501(a)(3)rjwcaueoihuxrainfinueoihrinsuhogjwrchwjnrevjrxu tridrevj
teuejridrQottottofforuhwrsnuhejwreumrjmjqferteuectrpzrevjrOhejnhux
NjyjhcjrTjnyoajkrEvjrDichwueoih'trJOHrinrdjwjnuxreumrowjheodoaueoih
hcqpjnrotr64-6221541krAihenopceoihtreirevjrFnibjaerScejhpjnsrXoejnunz
UnavoyjrDichwueoihrunjreumrwjwcaeopxjreirevjrdcxxrjmejherfjnqoeejwrpz
CkTkrdjwjnuxrxu truhwrzicnrteuej'trxu tk

EvjrDichwueoih'trfnohaofuxriddoajrotrohrDuonpuh.t,rUxut.u,r oevrevj
quoxohsruwwnjtt:rFIrPimr750175,rDuonpuh.t,rU.r99775,rpceroet
yixchejjntruhwrjqfxizjjtrunjrtaueejnjwrevnicsvicerhcqjnict
xiaueoihtkrOetrpctohjttriddoajrotrxiauejwruer809rHinevr1500r jte,rTuxe
Xu.jrAoez,rCEr84116,r(801)r596-1887krJquoxraiheuaerxoh.truhwrcfrei
wuejraiheuaerohdinqueoihrauhrpjrdichwruerevjrDichwueoih'tr jprtoejruhw
iddoaouxrfusjruer   kscejhpjnskins/aiheuae

Dinruwwoeoihuxraiheuaerohdinqueoih:

rrrrWnkrSnjsinzrPkrHj pz
rrrrAvojdrJmjaceoyjruhwrWonjaein
rrrrsphj pz@fsxudkins

Tjaeoihr4krOhdinqueoihrupicerWihueoihtreirevjrFnibjaerScejhpjns
XoejnunzrUnavoyjrDichwueoih

FnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrwjfjhwtrcfihruhwrauhhiertcnyoyjr oevicer owj
tfnjuwrfcpxoartcffineruhwrwihueoihtreiraunnzriceroetrqottoihrid
ohanjutohsrevjrhcqpjnridrfcpxoarwiquohruhwrxoajhtjwr in.trevuerauhrpj
dnjjxzrwotenopcejwrohrquavohjrnjuwupxjrdinqruaajttopxjrpzrevjr owjte
unnuzridrjlcofqjherohaxcwohsricewuejwrjlcofqjhekrQuhzrtquxxrwihueoiht
($1reir$5,000)runjrfuneoacxunxzroqfineuhereirquoheuohohsreumrjmjqfe
teuectr oevrevjrONTk

EvjrDichwueoihrotraiqqoeejwreiraiqfxzohsr oevrevjrxu trnjscxueohs
avunoeojtruhwravunoeupxjrwihueoihtrohruxxr50rteuejtridrevjrChoejw
TeuejtkrAiqfxouhajrnjlconjqjhetrunjrhierchodinqruhwroereu.jtru
aihtowjnupxjrjddine,rqcavrfufjn in.ruhwrquhzrdjjtreirqjjeruhwr.jjfrcf
 oevrevjtjrnjlconjqjhetkr jrwirhiertixoaoerwihueoihtrohrxiaueoiht
 vjnjr jrvuyjrhiernjajoyjwr noeejhraihdonqueoihridraiqfxouhajkrEirTJHW
WIHUEOIHTrinrwjejnqohjrevjrteuectridraiqfxouhajrdinruhzrfuneoacxun
teuejryotoer   kscejhpjnskins/wihuej

 voxjr jrauhhieruhwrwirhiertixoaoeraihenopceoihtrdniqrteuejtr vjnjr j
vuyjrhierqjerevjrtixoaoeueoihrnjlconjqjhet,r jr.hi ridrhirfnivopoeoih
usuohteruaajfeohsrchtixoaoejwrwihueoihtrdniqrwihintrohrtcavrteuejtr vi
uffniuavrctr oevriddjntreirwihuejk

Ohejnhueoihuxrwihueoihtrunjrsnuejdcxxzruaajfejw,rpcer jrauhhierqu.j
uhzrteuejqjhetraihajnhohsreumrenjueqjheridrwihueoihtrnjajoyjwrdniq
icetowjrevjrChoejwrTeuejtkrCkTkrxu truxihjrt uqfricnrtquxxrteuddk

Fxjutjravja.revjrFnibjaerScejhpjnsr jprfusjtrdinracnnjherwihueoih
qjeviwtruhwruwwnjttjtkrWihueoihtrunjruaajfejwrohrurhcqpjnridrievjn
 uztrohaxcwohsravja.t,rihxohjrfuzqjhetruhwranjwoeraunwrwihueoihtkrEi
wihuej,rfxjutjryotoe:r   kscejhpjnskins/wihuej

Tjaeoihr5krSjhjnuxrOhdinqueoihrUpicerFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrjxjaenihoar in.tk

FnidjttinrQoavujxrTkrVuner utrevjrinosohueinridrevjrFnibjae
Scejhpjns-eqraihajferidrurxopnunzridrjxjaenihoar in.trevueraicxwrpj
dnjjxzrtvunjwr oevruhzihjkrDinrdinezrzjunt,rvjrfniwcajwruhw
wotenopcejwrFnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrjPii.tr oevrihxzrurxiitjrhje in.rid
yixchejjnrtcffinek

FnibjaerScejhpjns-eqrjPii.trunjridejhranjuejwrdniqrtjyjnuxrfnohejw
jwoeoiht,ruxxridr voavrunjraihdonqjwrutrhierfniejaejwrpzraifznosveroh
evjrCkTkrchxjttruraifznosverhieoajrotrohaxcwjwkrEvct,r jrwirhie
hjajttunoxzr.jjfrjPii.trohraiqfxouhajr oevruhzrfuneoacxunrfufjn
jwoeoihk

Qiterfjifxjrteuneruericnr jprtoejr voavrvutrevjrquohrFSrtjunav
duaoxoez:r   kscejhpjnskins

Evotr jprtoejrohaxcwjtrohdinqueoihrupicerFnibjaerScejhpjns-eq,
ohaxcwohsrvi reirqu.jrwihueoihtreirevjrFnibjaerScejhpjnsrXoejnunz
UnavoyjrDichwueoih,rvi reirvjxfrfniwcajricnrhj rjPii.t,ruhwrvi rei
tcptanopjreiricnrjquoxrhj txjeejnreirvjunrupicerhj rjPii.tk

