YfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdJKeevdeidYfjdLqzxjzdepdyfjdCmpv.,dkgdRhryfrdOfzm.ymj

Yfm.djKeevdm.diezdyfjdq.jdeidrpgepjdrpgufjzjdmpdyfjdQpmyjxd.yryj.drpxdle.y
eyfjzdarzy.deidyfjduezcxdrydpedoe.ydrpxdumyfdrcle.ydpedzj.yzmoymep.
ufry.ejtjz ddGeqdlrgdoeagdmy,dhmtjdmydrurgdezdzj-q.jdmydqpxjzdyfjdyjzl.dei
yfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdCmojp.jdmpocqxjxdumyfdyfm.djKeevdezdepcmpjdry
uuu hqyjpkjzh ezh ddMidgeqdrzjdpeydceoryjxdmpdyfjdQpmyjxd.yryj.,dgeq'ccdfrtj
yedofjovdyfjdcru.deidyfjdoeqpyzgdufjzjdgeqdrzjdceoryjxdkjiezjdq.mphdyfm.djkeev 

Ymycj:dYfjdLqzxjzdepdyfjdCmpv.

Rqyfez:dRhryfrdOfzm.ymj

Zjcjr.jdXryj:dIjkzqrzgd11,d2019d[JKeevd#58866]

Crphqrhj:dJphcm.f

Ofrzroyjzd.jydjpoexmph:dQYI-8

***d.YRZYdEIdYFM.dAZENJOYdHQYJPKJZHdJKEEVdYFJdLQZXJZdEPdYFJdCMPV.d***




AzexqojxdkgdRcjbdOrkrcdiezdyfjd.yrpxrzxdJkeev.dazenjoy,
umyfdyfrpv.dyedLrzvdHzrfrldeidyfjdMpyjzpjydRzofmtj





YFJdLQZXJZdEPdYFJdCMPV.

KgdRhryfrdOfzm.ymj




YEdLGdFQ.KRPX

Rdijcceudjpyfq.mr.ydiezdxjyjoymtjd.yezmj.,drpxdyedufeldMdrldmpxjkyjx
iezdlqofdfjcaiqcdrxtmojdrpxdozmymom.l 




OEPYJPY.

1:dRdIjcceudYzrtjccjz

2:dRpdRaajrcdiezdFjca

3:dRydyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj

4:dYfjdCjyyjzd.mhpjxd"Kjccr"

5:dLz. dZjprqcx'.d.yezg

6:dYfjd.ojpjdeidyfjdOzmlj

7:dYfjdLg.yjzmeq.dLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc

8:dRpdQpjbajoyjxdLjjymph

9:dL dHmzrqxdImpx.d.eljdOcqj.

10:dHrkzmjcd.yepez

11:dNrovdZjprqcx

12:dAemzeydJcqomxryj.dOjzyrmpdAempy.

13:dYfjdHmzcdumyfdyfjdRpbmeq.dJgj.

14:dYfjd.joepxdKexg

15:dRdAfeyehzraf

16:dYfjdKjzecxgdOr.j

17:dUjdLrvjdIqzyfjzdMptj.ymhrymep.

18:dHmzrqxdRoy.

19:dMdQ.jdLgdHzjgdOjcc.

20:dRpdRlrsmphd.yryjljpy

21:dFjzoqcjdAemzeydepdyfjdOr.j!

22:dMdImpxdCetj

23:dXmiimoqcymj.dRfjrx

24:d".rtjdFml!"

25:dRpdQpjbajoyjxdXépeqjljpy

26:dMdZjojmtjdrdCjyyjz

27:dNrovdZjprqcx'.d.yezg

28:dNeqzpjg'.dJpx




1

RdIjcceudYzrtjccjz


Mdkjcmjtjdyfrydrdujcc-vpeupdrpjoxeyjdjbm.y.dyedyfjdjiijoydyfry
rdgeqphduzmyjz,dxjyjzlmpjxdyedlrvjdyfjdoelljpojljpydeidfm.d.yezg
iezomkcjdrpxdezmhmprcdjpeqhfdyedoryofdrpxdzmtjydyfjdryyjpymepdei
yfjdle.ydkcr.édeidjxmyez.,dajppjxdyfjdiecceumphd.jpyjpoj:

"'Fjcc!'d.rmxdyfjdXqofj.. "

.yzrphjcgdjpeqhf,dyfm.dyrcjdeidlmpjdeajp.dmpdlqofdyfjd.rlj
ir.fmep dEpcgdyfjdcrxgdufedhrtjdqyyjzrpojdyedyfjdjbocrlrymepdur.
peydrdXqofj..!

Mydur.drdxrgdmpdjrzcgdNqpj dMdfrxdkjjpdyzrp.roymphd.eljdkq.mpj..dmp
Arzm.drpxdur.dzjyqzpmphdkgdyfjdlezpmphd.jztmojdyedCepxepdufjzjdMdur.
.ymccd.frzmphdzeel.dumyfdlgdecxdizmjpx,dyfjdKjchmrpdjb-xjyjoymtj,
FjzoqcjdAemzey 

YfjdOrcrm.djbazj..dur.d.mphqcrzcgdjlayg--mpdiroy,dlgdeupdoelarzyljpy
fjcxdepcgdepjdeyfjzdyzrtjccjz dMdfrxdlrxjdrd.eljufrydfqzzmjx
xjarzyqzjdizeldyfjdfeyjcdrpxdur.dkq.gdr..qzmphdlg.jcidyfrydMdfrx
xqcgdoeccjoyjxdrccdlgdyzra.dufjpdyfjdyzrmpd.yrzyjx dQadymccdyfjpdM
frxdfrzxcgdpeymojxdlgdoelarpmep,dkqydMdur.dpeudtmecjpycgdzjorccjx
yedyfjdiroydeidfjzdjbm.yjpoj dNqlamphdqadizeldfjzd.jry,d.fjdcjy
xeupdyfjdumpxeudrpxd.yqovdfjzdfjrxdeqy,dumyfxzrumphdmydrdleljpy
cryjzdumyfdyfjdkzmjidrpxdiezomkcjdjnroqcrymepd"Fjcc!"

PeudMdrldecx-ir.fmepjx dRduelrp,dMdoep.mxjz,d.feqcxdkjduelrpcg dMdfrtj
pedarymjpojdumyfdyfjdlexjzpdpjqzeymodhmzcdufednrssj.dizeldlezpmph
yedpmhfy,d.levj.dcmvjdrdofmlpjg,drpxdq.j.dcrphqrhjdufmofdueqcxdlrvj
rdKmccmph.hryjdim.fuelrpdkcq.f!

Mdceevjxdqadpeu,dizeupmphd.cmhfycg,dmpyedrdazjyyg,dmlaqxjpydiroj,
.qzleqpyjxdkgdrdzrvm.fdcmyycjdzjxdfry dRdyfmovdocq.yjzdeidkcrovdoqzc.
fmxdjrofdjrz dMdnqxhjxdyfryd.fjdur.dcmyycjdlezjdyfrpd.jtjpyjjp,
kqydfjzdirojdur.doetjzjxdumyfdaeuxjz,drpxdfjzdcma.dujzjdwqmyj
mlae..mkcgd.orzcjy 

Peyfmphdrkr.fjx,d.fjdzjyqzpjxdlgdhcrpoj,drpxdjbjoqyjxdrpdjbazj..mtj
hzmlroj 

"Xjrzdlj,duj'tjd.feovjxdyfjdvmpxdhjpycjlrp!"d.fjdek.jztjxdyedrp
mlrhmprzgdrqxmjpoj d"Mdraecehmsjdiezdlgdcrphqrhj!dLe.ydqpcrxgcmvj,
rpxdrccdyfry,dkqydEf,dCezx,dyfjzj'.dzjr.epdjpeqhfdiezdmy!dXedgeq
vpeudM'tjdce.ydlgdepcgd.m.yjz?"

"Zjrccg?"dMd.rmxdaecmyjcg d"Feudqpiezyqpryj "

"Fjdxm.raazetj.!"dzjlrzvjxdyfjdcrxg d"Fjdxm.raazetj.dqyyjzcg--eidlj,
rpxdlgd.m.yjz--ufmofdcr.ydm.dqpirmz,dkjorq.jdfjdfr.p'yd.jjpdfjz!"

Mdeajpjxdlgdleqyf,dkqyd.fjdiezj.yrccjxdlj 

".rgdpedlezj!dPekexgdcetj.dlj!dMd.frccdhedmpyedyfjdhrzxjpdrpxdjry
uezl.!dKeefee!dMdrldozq.fjx!"

.fjdkqzmjxdfjz.jcidkjfmpxdrdcrzhjdoelmodIzjpofdarajz ddMpdrdlmpqyj
ezdyuedMd.rudfjzdjgj.d.yjrcyfmcgdajjamphdrydljdetjzdyfjdyea dMp
.amyjdeidlg.jcidMdoeqcxdpeydfjcad.lmcmph,drpxdmpdrdlmpqyjd.fjdfrx
ye..jxdyfjdarajzdr.mxj,drpxdfrxdkqz.ydmpyedrdljzzgdajrcdeidcrqhfyjz 

"Mdvpjudgeqdujzjp'yd.qofdrdlqyydr.dgeqdceevjx,"d.fjdozmjx 

Fjzdcrqhfyjzdur.d.edmpijoymeq.dyfrydMdoeqcxdpeydfjcadnempmphdmp,
yfeqhfdMdfrzxcgdorzjxdiezdyfjduezxd"lqyy "ddYfjdhmzcdur.dojzyrmpcg
rccdyfrydMdle.ydxm.cmvjx,dkqydyfrydur.dpedzjr.epdufgdMd.feqcxdlrvj
lg.jcidzmxmoqceq.dkgdlgdryymyqxj dMdazjarzjxdyedqpkjpx dRiyjzdrcc,
.fjdur.dxjomxjxcgdazjyyg d d d 

"Yfjzj!dPeuduj'zjdizmjpx.!"dxjocrzjxdyfjdlmpb dd".rgdgeq'zjd.ezzg
rkeqydlgd.m.yjz--"

"Mdrldxj.ecryjx!"

"Yfry'.drdheexdkeg!"

"Cjydljdimpm.f dMdur.dhemphdyedrxxdyfry,drcyfeqhfdMdrldxj.ecryjx,
Mdorpdlrprhjdyedaqydqadumyfdfjzdrk.jpojdtjzgdujcc "dMdlrxjdr
cmyycjdkeu 

Kqydyfm.dle.ydqprooeqpyrkcjdeidxrl.jc.dizeupjxdrpxd.feevdfjzdfjrx 

"Oqydmydeqy dMdazjijzdyfjd'xmhpmimjxdxm.raazetrc'd.yqpy ddEf,dgeqz
iroj!d'Peydepjdeidq.,'dmyd.rmx dRpxdgeqdujzjdzmhfydyfjzj--yfeqhf,
lmpxdgeq,dmy'.dazjyygdfrzxdyedyjccdpeurxrg. dMy'.dpeydjtjzgdepjdufe
orpdxm.ymphqm.fdkjyujjpdrdxjlmdrpxdrdxqofj.. dYfjzjdpeu,dMdkjcmjtj
M'tjd.feovjxdgeqdrhrmp!dGeq'tjdkjjpdxqhdeqydeidyfjdkrovueex.,dgeq
frtj dPeydyfrydMdlmpxdyfry dUjdoeqcxdxedumyfdrdijudlezjdeidgeqz
.ezy dMdnq.ydfryjdrdijcceudufedhjy.dizj.f dMydlrvj.dljdlrx "

.fjd.feevdfjzdfjrxdtmhezeq.cg 

"Ufrydrzjdgeqdcmvjdufjpdgeq'zjdlrx?"dMdmpwqmzjxdumyfdrd.lmcj 

"Rdzjhqcrzdcmyycjdxjtmc!dXep'ydorzjdufrydMd.rg,dezdufrydMdxe,
jmyfjz!dMdpjrzcgdxmxdrdofradmpdepoj dGj.,dzjrccg ddFj'xdfrtj
xj.jztjxdmydyee dMyrcmrpdkceexdM'tjdhey dMd.frccdhjydmpyedyzeqkcj
epjdeidyfj.jdxrg. "

"Ujcc,"dMdkjhhjx,d"xep'ydhjydlrxdumyfdlj "

"Md.frp'y dMdcmvjdgeq--xmxdyfjdimz.ydleljpydMd.jydjgj.depdgeq dKqy
geqdceevjxd.edxm.raazetmphdyfrydMdpjtjzdyfeqhfydujd.feqcxdlrvj
izmjpx. "

"Ujcc,dujdfrtj dYjccdljd.eljyfmphdrkeqydgeqz.jci "

"M'ldrpdroyzj.. dPe--peydyfjdvmpxdgeq'zjdyfmpvmphdei,dcqpofmphdry
yfjd.rtegdoetjzjxdumyfdnjujccjzg,drpxdumyfdyfjmzdafeyehzrafdmpdjtjzg
arajzd.rgmphdfeudlqofdyfjgdcetjdLrxrljd.edrpxd.e'.dirojdozjrl dM'tj
kjjpdepdyfjdkerzx.d.mpojdMdur.drdvmxdeid.mb--yqlkcmph "

"Mdkjhdgeqzdarzxep,"dMd.rmxdaqsscjx 

"Frtjp'ydgeqd.jjpdofmcxdrozekry.?"

"Ef,dMdqpxjz.yrpx "

"M'ldRljzmorpdkezp,dkqydM'tjd.ajpydle.ydeidlgdcmijdmpdJphcrpx dUj
heydrdpjud.feudpeu--"

"Uj?"

"Lgd.m.yjzdrpxdM d.ezydeid.ephdrpxdxrpoj,drpxdrdkmydeidaryyjz,
rpxdrdxr.fdeidyfjdecxdkq.mpj..dyfzeupdmp dMy'.dwqmyjdrdpjudmxjr,
rpxdmydfmy.dyfjldjtjzgdymlj dYfjzj'.dyedkjdlepjgdmpdmy--"

Lgdpjudrowqrmpyrpojdcjrpjxdiezurzx,drpxdxm.oeqz.jxdtecqkcg,drdhzjry
lrpgdeidfjzdyjzl.dkjmphdwqmyjdqpmpyjccmhmkcjdyedlj dGjydMdieqpx
lg.jcidjtmpomphdrpdmpozjr.mphdmpyjzj.ydmpdfjz d.fjd.jjljxd.qofdr
oqzmeq.dlmbyqzjdeidofmcxdrpxduelrp dYfeqhfdajzijoycgduezcxcg-um.j,
rpxdrkcj,dr.d.fjdjbazj..jxdmy,dyedyrvjdorzjdeidfjz.jci,dyfjzjdur.dgjy
.eljyfmphdoqzmeq.cgdmphjpqeq.dmpdfjzd.mphcj-lmpxjxdryymyqxjdyeurzx.
cmij,drpxdfjzdufecj-fjrzyjxdxjyjzlmprymepdyed"lrvjdheex "dYfm.
hcmla.jdeidrduezcxdqpvpeupdyedljdur.dpeydumyfeqydmy.dofrzl,drpxdM
jpnegjxd.jjmphdfjzdtmtmxdcmyycjdirojdcmhfydqadr.d.fjdyrcvjx 

Ujdar..jxdyfzeqhfdRlmjp. dYfjdprljdrurvjpjxdlrpgdljlezmj. dLg
oelarpmepd.jjljxdyedfrtjdrpdmpyqmymtjdvpeucjxhjdeidufrydur.dmp
lgdlmpx 

"YfmpvmphdeidyfjdUrz?"

Mdpexxjx 

"Geqdujzjdyfzeqhfdmy,dMd.qaae.j?"

"Azjyygdujcc dMdur.dueqpxjxdepoj,drpxdriyjzdyfjd.elljdyfjgdmptrcmxjx
ljdeqydrcyehjyfjz dMdfrxdrdfrcidicjxhjxdRzlgdnekdiezdrdkmy dM'ldr
.ezydeidazmtryjd.jozjyrzgdpeudyedrpdL dA "

"Lg!dYfry'.dkzrmpg!"

"Pe,dmydm.p'y dYfjzj'.dzjrccgdruiqccgdcmyycjdyedxe ddQ.qrccgdrdoeqacj
eidfeqz.djtjzgdxrgd.jj.dljdyfzeqhf ddMy'.dxqccduezvdyee dMpdiroy,
Mdxep'ydvpeudufrydMd.feqcxdxedmidMdfrxp'ydheyd.eljyfmphdyedircc
krovdqaep "

"Xep'yd.rgdgeqdoeccjoydkqh.!"

"Pe dMd.frzjdzeel.dumyfdrdtjzgdmpyjzj.ymphdlrp dFj'.drdKjchmrp--rp
jb-xjyjoymtj dFj'.d.jydqadr.drdazmtryjdxjyjoymtjdmpdCepxep,drpxdfj'.
xemphdjbyzrezxmprzmcgdujcc ddFj'.dzjrccgdrdtjzgdlrztjcceq.dcmyycj
lrp dYmljdrpxdrhrmpdfjdfr.dazetjxdyedkjdzmhfydufjzjdyfjdeiimomrc
aecmojdfrtjdirmcjx "

Lgdoelarpmepdcm.yjpjxdumyfdumxjpmphdjgj. 

"M.p'ydyfrydmpyjzj.ymph,dpeu?dMdnq.ydrxezjdozmlj dMdhedyedrccdyfj
lg.yjzmj.depdyfjdletmj. dRpxdufjpdyfjzj'.drdlqzxjzdepdMdnq.ydxjteqz
yfjdarajz. "

"Xedgeqdzjljlkjzdyfjd.ygcj.dOr.j?"dMdr.vjx 

"Cjydljd.jj,dur.dyfrydyfjdecxdcrxgdufedur.daem.epjx?dd.eljufjzjdxeup
mpdJ..jb?"

Mdpexxjx 

"Yfrydur.dAemzey'.dimz.ydkmhdor.j dQpxeqkyjxcg,dkqydiezdfml,dyfj
lqzxjzjzdueqcxdfrtjdj.orajxd.oey-izjj dMydur.drdle.yduepxjziqcdkmy
eidxjyjoymtjduezv "

Urzlmphdyedlgd.qknjoy,dMdzrpdetjzdyfjdfjrx.deidyfjdriirmz,duezvmph
qadyedyfjdyzmqlafrpydrpxdqpjbajoyjxdxjpeqjljpy dYfjdhmzcdcm.yjpjx
.ajcckeqpx dMpdiroy,dujdujzjd.edrk.ezkjxdyfrydyfjdyzrmpdxzjudmpye
Orcrm.d.yrymepdkjiezjdujdzjrcmsjxdmy 

"Lgdheexpj..dhzromeq.dlj!"dozmjxdlgdoelarpmep dd"Ufjzj'.dlg
aeuxjz-aqii?"

.fjdazeojjxjxdyedkjxrqkdfjzdirojdcmkjzrccg,drpxdyfjpdraacmjxdrd.ymov
eidcmad.rctjdyedfjzdcma.,dek.jztmphdyfjdjiijoydmpdrd.lrccdaeovjy
hcr..,drpxdkjyzrgmphdpeydyfjdirmpyj.yd.mhpdeid.jci-oep.omeq.pj.. 

"Md.rg,"dMdfj.myryjx d"Mdxrzjd.rgdmy'.dofjjvdepdlgdarzy,dkqydufg
xedrccdyfryd.ezydeidyfmph?"

Yfjdhmzcdarq.jxdmpdfjzdeajzrymep.,drpxd.yrzjxdrydljdumyfdqpxm.hqm.jx
.qzazm.j 

"Mydm.p'ydr.dyfeqhfdgeqdujzjp'yd.edazjyygdyfrydgeqdorpdriiezxdye
xedumyfeqydmy,"dMd.rmxd.yrlljzmphcg 

"Lgdxjrzdkeg!dM'tjdheydyedxedmy dRccdyfjdhmzc.dxe ddYfmpvdMdurpy
yedceevdcmvjdrdcmyycjdizqladqadizeldyfjdoeqpyzg?"d.fjdyeevdepjdcr.y
ceevdmpdyfjdlmzzez,d.lmcjxdraazetrc,drpxdaqydmydrpxdfjzdtrpmyg-keb
rurgdmpdfjzdkrh dd"Yfry'.dkjyyjz dVjjamphdqadraajrzrpoj.dm.drdkmy
eidrdirh,dMdhzrpy,dkqydmidrdhmzcdzj.ajoy.dfjz.jcidmy'.dqadyedfjz
peydyedcjydfjz.jcidhjyd.crov "

Yedyfm.dj..jpymrccgdlezrcd.jpymljpy,dMdfrxdpedzjacg dRdaempydei
tmjudlrvj.drdhzjrydxmiijzjpoj 

Md.joqzjxdrdoeqacjdeidaezyjz.,drpxdujdrcmhfyjxdepdyfjdacryiezl dLg
oelarpmepdfjcxdeqydfjzdfrpx 

"Heex-kgj,drpxdM'ccdlmpxdlgdcrphqrhjdkjyyjzdmpdiqyqzj "

"Ef,dkqyd.qzjcgdgeq'ccdcjydljdceevdriyjzdgeqdepdyfjdkery?"

"Lrgp'ydkjdepdyfjdkery dM'tjdheydyed.jjdufjyfjzdyfryd.m.yjzdeidlmpj
heydrkerzxdriyjzdrccdrpgufjzj dKqydyfrpv.drccdyfjd.rlj "

"Ef,dkqyduj'zjdhemphdyedljjydrhrmp,d.qzjcg?dM--"dMdfj.myryjx d"M
urpydyedljjydgeqzd.m.yjz "

Ujdkeyfdcrqhfjx 

"Yfry'.dzjrcdpmojdeidgeq dM'ccdyjccdfjzdufrydgeqd.rg ddKqydM
xep'ydirpogduj'ccdljjydrhrmp dGeq'tjdkjjpdtjzgdheexdyedljdepdyfj
neqzpjg,dj.ajomrccgdriyjzdMdofjjvjxdgeqdr.dMdxmx dKqydufrydgeqz
irojdjbazj..jxdimz.ydyfmphdm.dwqmyjdyzqj dM'ldpeydgeqzdvmpx dRpx
yfrydkzmph.dyzeqkcj--_M_dvpeudyfrydujccdjpeqhf d d d "

Fjzdirojdofrphjx dIezdyfjdleljpydrccdyfjdcmhfy-fjrzyjxdhrmjygdxmjx
eqydeidmy dMydceevjxdrphzg--zjtjphjiqc d d d 

".edheex-kgj,"d.fjdimpm.fjx,dmpdrdcmhfyjzdyepj 

"Rzjp'ydgeqdjtjpdhemphdyedyjccdljdgeqzdprlj?"dMdozmjx,dr.d.fj
yqzpjxdrurg 

.fjdceevjxdetjzdfjzd.feqcxjz dRdxmlacjdraajrzjxdmpdjrofdofjjv d.fj
ur.dcmvjdrdcetjcgdamoyqzjdkgdHzjqsj 

"Ompxjzjccr,"d.fjd.rmx,drpxdcrqhfjx 

KqydcmyycjdxmxdMdyfmpvdufjpdrpxdfeudMd.feqcxd.jjdOmpxjzjccrdrhrmp 




2

RpdRaajrcdiezdFjca


Mydur.dimtjdlmpqyj.dar.ydpmpjdufjpdMdjpyjzjxdeqzdnempyd.myymph-zeel
iezdkzjrvir.ydepdyfjdiecceumphdlezpmph 

LgdizmjpxdAemzey,djbroydyedyfjdlmpqyjdr.dq.qrc,dur.dnq.ydyraamph
yfjd.fjccdeidfm.d.joepxdjhh 

Fjdkjrljxdqaepdljdr.dMdjpyjzjx 

"Geqdfrtjd.cjaydujcc,dgj.?dGeqdfrtjdzjoetjzjxdizeldyfj
oze..mphd.edyjzzmkcj?dMydm.drdlrztjc,drcle.ydgeqdrzjdjbroydyfm.
lezpmph d_Arzxep_,dkqydgeqzdymjdm.dpeyd.glljyzmorc ddAjzlmydyfry
Mdzjrzzrphjdfml "

Jc.jufjzj,dMdfrtjdxj.ozmkjxdFjzoqcjdAemzey dRpdjbyzrezxmprzgdcmyycj
lrp!dFjmhfy,dimtjdijjydieqzdmpofj.,djhh-.frajxdfjrxdorzzmjxdr
cmyycjdyedepjd.mxj,djgj.dyfryd.fepjdhzjjpdufjpdfjdur.djbomyjx,
.ymiidlmcmyrzgdleq.yrofj,drmzdeidxmhpmygdmlljp.j!dFjdur.dpjry
rpxdxrpxmimjxdmpdraajrzrpoj dIezdpjrypj..deidrpgdvmpx,dfjdfrxdrp
rk.ecqyjdar..mep dYed.jjdrpdezprljpyd.jydozeevjx,dezdrd.ajovdeidxq.y,
ezdrd.cmhfydxm.rzzrgdmpdepj'.dryymzj,dur.dyezyqzjdyedyfjdcmyycjdlrp
qpymcdfjdoeqcxdjr.jdfm.dijjcmph.dkgdzjljxgmphdyfjdlryyjz d"Ezxjz"
rpxd"Ljyfex"dujzjdfm.dhex. dFjdfrxdrdojzyrmpdxm.xrmpdiezdyrphmkcj
jtmxjpoj,d.qofdr.dieeyazmpy.drpxdomhrzjyyjdr.f,drpxdueqcxdlrmpyrmp
yfry,dyrvjpdkgdyfjl.jctj.,dyfjgdueqcxdpjtjzdjprkcjdrdxjyjoymtjdye
.ectjdrdazekcjl dYfjpdfjdueqcxdyradfm.djhh-.frajxdfjrxdumyfdrk.qzx
oelacrojpog,drpxdzjlrzvdumyfdhzjryd.rym.iroymep:d"Yfjdyzqjduezv,
mydm.dxepjdizeld_umyfmp_ d_Yfjdcmyycjdhzjgdojcc._--zjljlkjzdrcurg.
yfjdcmyycjdhzjgdojcc.,d_lepdrlm_!"

Md.cmaajxdmpyedlgd.jry,drpxdzjlrzvjxdmxcg,dmpdrp.ujzdyedAemzey'.
hzjjymph,dyfrydrpdfeqz'.d.jrdar..rhjdizeldOrcrm.dyedXetjzdoeqcx
frzxcgdkjdxmhpmimjxdkgdyfjdjamyfjyd"yjzzmkcj "

Aemzeydurtjxdfm.djhh-.aeepdmpdtmhezeq.dzjiqyrymepdeidlgdzjlrzv 

"_Xqdyeqy!_dMidiezdrpdfeqzdepjdjbajzmjpoj.d.jp.rymep.drpxdjleymep.
eidyfjdle.ydyjzzmkcj,depjdfr.dcmtjxdlrpgdfeqz.!dXej.dpeydepjdei
geqzdJphcm.fdaejy.d.rgdyfrydymljdm.doeqpyjx,dpeydkgdfeqz.,dkqy
kgdfjrzy-kjry.?"

"MdirpogdKzeupmphdur.dzjijzzmphdyed.eljyfmphdlezjdzelrpymodyfrp
.jrd.movpj..,dyfeqhf "

"Kjorq.jdfjdur.drpdJphcm.flrp,drpdM.crpxjzdyedufeld_crdLrpofj_dur.
peyfmph dEf,dgeqdJphcm.f!dUmyfd_peq.drqyzj._dmydm.dxmiijzjpy dImhqzj
yedgeqz.jcidyfrydrdcrxgdeidlgdrowqrmpyrpojdrydyfjdkjhmppmphdei
yfjdurzdicjxdyedE.yjpx dYfjzjd.fjdfrxdrdyjzzmkcjdozm.m.deidyfj
pjztj. dMlae..mkcjdyedj.orajdiqzyfjzdjbojaydkgdoze..mphdyfjd.jr!
Rpxd.fjdfrxdrdfezzez--_lrm.dqpjdfezzjqz!_--eidyfjd.jr!ddUfrydur.d.fj
yedxe?dXrmcgd_cj.dKeofj._dujzjdxzrumphdpjrzjz dMlrhmpjdyedgeqz.jci
yfjdyjzzmkcjd.myqrymep!"

"Ufrydxmxd.fjdxe?"dMdmpwqmzjxdoqzmeq.cg 

"Iezyqpryjcgdfjzdfq.krpxdur.d_felljdazrymwqj_ dFjdur.drc.edtjzgdorcl,
yfjdozm.j.deidyfjdpjztj.,dyfjgdriijoyjxdfmldpey d_Mcdc'rdjlaezyéj
.mlacjljpy!_dPryqzrccgdufjpd.fjdzjrofjxdJphcrpxd.fjdur.daze.yzryj,
kqyd.fjd.ymccdkzjryfjx "

Aemzeyd.feevdfm.dfjrxd.jzmeq.cg dMdoelae.jxdlgdirojdr.dkj.ydMdoeqcx 

.qxxjpcgdfjd.ymiijpjxdrpxdaempyjxdrdxzrlrymodimphjzdrydyfjdyer.y
zrov 

"Rf,darzdjbjlacj,do'j.ydyzeadiezy!"dfjdozmjx 

"Ufrydm.dmy?"

"Yfm.damjojdeidyer.y dGeqdzjlrzvdfmldpey?"dFjdufmaajxdyfjdeiijpxjz
eqydeidyfjdzrov,drpxdfjcxdmydqadiezdljdyedjbrlmpj 

"M.dmyd.wqrzj?dPe dM.dmydrdyzmrphcj?dRhrmpdpe dM.dmydjtjp
zeqpx?dPe dM.dmydeidrpgd.frajdzjleyjcgdacjr.mphdyedyfjdjgj?dUfry
.glljyzgdfrtjdujdfjzj?dPepj "

"My'.doqydizeldrdoeyyrhjdceri,"dMdjbacrmpjxd.eeyfmphcg 

Aemzeydyfzjudljdrdumyfjzmphdhcrpoj 

"Ufrydrpdmpyjccmhjpojdfr.dlgdizmjpxdFr.ymph.!"dfjdjbocrmljx
.rzor.ymorccg d"OelazjfjpxdgeqdpeydyfrydMdfrtjdiezkmxxjpd.qofdr
ceri--rdceridfrafrsrzxdrpxd.frajcj..,dyfrydpedkrvjzd.feqcxdajzlmy
fml.jcidyedkrvj!"

Mdjpxjrteqzjxdyedxm.yzroydfm.dlmpx 

"Rpgyfmphdmpyjzj.ymphdoeljdkgdyfjdae.y?"

Aemzeyd.feevdfm.dfjrxdumyfdrdxm..rym.imjxdrmz 

"Mdfrtjdpeydgjydjbrlmpjxdlgdcjyyjz.,dkqydpeyfmphdeidmpyjzj.y
rzzmtj.dpeurxrg. dYfjdhzjrydozmlmprc.,dyfjdozmlmprc.deidljyfex,
yfjgdxedpeydjbm.y dYfjdor.j.dMdfrtjdkjjpdjlacegjxdqaepdcryjcgdujzj
_krprc_dyedyfjdcr.ydxjhzjj dMpdtjzmygdMdrldzjxqojxdyedzjoetjzmph
ce.ydcra-xeh.diezdir.fmeprkcjdcrxmj.!dYfjdcr.ydazekcjldyfrydazj.jpyjx
rpgdmpyjzj.ydur.dyfrydmpyzmoryjdcmyycjdriirmzdeidyfjdGrzxcgdxmrlepx,
rpxdyfrydur.--feudlrpgdlepyf.drhe,dlgdizmjpx?"

Fjd.feevdfm.dfjrxdxj.aepxjpycg,drpxdMdzerzjxdumyfdcrqhfyjz 

"Ofjjzdqa,dAemzey,dyfjdcqovdumccdofrphj dEajpdgeqzdcjyyjz. dIez
rccdgeqdvpeu,dyfjzjdlrgdkjdrdhzjrydOr.jdceelmphdepdyfjdfezmsep "

Aemzeyd.lmcjx,drpxdyrvmphdqadyfjdpjrydcmyycjdcjyyjzdeajpjzdumyf
ufmofdfjdeajpjxdfm.doezzj.aepxjpojdfjd.cmydyfjdyea.deidyfjd.jtjzrc
jptjceaj.dyfrydcrgdkgdfm.dacryj 

"Rdkmcc dRpeyfjzdkmcc dMydm.dyfrydMdhzeudjbyzrtrhrpydmpdlgdecx
rhj dRfr!drdpeyjdizeldNraa "

"Gj.?"dazmovjxdqadlgdjrz. dYfjd.oeycrpxdGrzxdMp.ajoyezdfrxdlezj
yfrpdepojdmpyzexqojxdq.dyedrpdmpyjzj.ymphdor.j 

"Fjdljzjcgdyfrpv.dljd(mpdfm.dir.fmep)diezdrdcmyycjdaempydmpdyfj
Rkjzg.yugyfdOr.jdepdufmofdMdur.drkcjdyed.jydfmldzmhfy dMdrldxjcmhfyjx
yedfrtjdkjjpdeid.jztmojdyedfml "

"Feudxej.dfjdyfrpvdgeq?"dMdr.vjxdoqzmeq.cg,diezdMdvpjudlgdNraa 

"Fjdm.dvmpxdjpeqhfdyed.rgdyfrydMdrldrduepxjziqcd.aezydiezdlgdrhj,
rpxdyfrydfjdur.dhcrxdyedfrtjdfrxdyfjdofrpojdeidcjyymphdljdmpdep
yfjdor.j "

Yfm.dur.d.edygamorcdeidNraa,dyfrydMdoeqcxdpeydiezkjrzdr
ofqovcj dAemzeydoepympqjxdyedzjrxdfm.doezzj.aepxjpojdacromxcg 

"Rd.qhhj.ymepdyfrydMd.feqcxdhmtjdrdcjoyqzjdyedeqzdceorcdkeg
.oeqy. dYfjdOeqpyj..deidIezirpeovdumccdkjdekcmhjxdmidMdumccdorccdrpx
.jjdfjz dRpeyfjzdcra-xehdumyfeqydxeqky!dRpxdpeudiezdyfjdcr.y dRf--"

Mdceevjxdqa,dwqmovdyedpeymojdyfjdofrphjdeidyepj dAemzeydur.dzjrxmph
ryyjpymtjcg dMpdrdlmpqyjdfjdye..jxdyfjd.fjjydetjzdyedlj 

"Yfm.dm.deqydeidyfjdezxmprzg,d_lepdrlm_ dZjrxdiezdgeqz.jci "

Yfjdcjyyjzdur.duzmyyjpdepdrdiezjmhpdygajdeidarajz,dmpdrdkecx
ofrzroyjzm.ymodfrpx:

"TmccrdHjpjtmètj

Ljzcmptmccj-.qz-Ljz

Izrpoj

"XJRZd.MZ,

"Mdrldmpdpjjxdeidyfjd.jztmoj.deidrdxjyjoymtjdrpx,diezdzjr.ep.
ufmofdMdumccdhmtjdgeqdcryjz,dxedpeydum.fdyedorccdmpdyfjdeiimomrc
aecmoj dMdfrtjdfjrzxdeidgeqdizeld.jtjzrcdwqrzyjz.,drpxdrccdzjaezy.
hedyed.feudyfrydgeqdrzjdpeydepcgdrdlrpdeidxjomxjxdrkmcmyg,dkqydepj
ufedrc.edvpeu.dfeudyedkjdxm.ozjjy dMdxedpeydum.fdyedyzq.ydxjyrmc.
yedyfjdae.y,dkqy,depdrooeqpydeidrd.jozjydMdae..j..,dMdhedmpdxrmcg
ijrzdeidlgdcmij dMdrldoeptmpojxdyfrydyfjdxrphjzdm.dmllmpjpy,drpx
yfjzjiezjdMdkjhdyfrydgeqdumccdce.jdpedymljdmpdoze..mphdyedIzrpoj dM
umccd.jpxdrdorzdyedljjydgeqdrydOrcrm.,dmidgeqdumccdumzjdljdufjp
geqdrzjdrzzmtmph dMd.frccdkjdekcmhjxdmidgeqdumccdxzeadrccdor.j.
geqdfrtjdepdfrpx,drpxdxjteyjdgeqz.jcid.ecjcgdyedlgdmpyjzj.y. dM
rldazjarzjxdyedargdrpgdoelajp.rymepdpjoj..rzg dMd.frccdazekrkcg
pjjxdgeqzd.jztmoj.diezdrdoep.mxjzrkcjdajzmexdeidymlj,dr.dmydlrg
kjdpjoj..rzgdiezdgeqdyedhedeqydyed.rpymrhe,dufjzjdMd.ajpyd.jtjzrc
gjrz.deidlgdcmij dMd.frccdkjdoepyjpydiezdgeqdyedprljdgeqzdeupdijj 

"R..qzmphdgeqdepojdlezjdyfrydyfjdlryyjzdm.d_qzhjpy_,

"Geqz.dirmyfiqccg

"A dY dZJPRQCX "

Kjceudyfjd.mhpryqzjdur.drdfr.ymcgd.ozrucjxdcmpj,drcle.ydmccjhmkcj:
"IezdHex'.d.rvj,doelj!"

Mdfrpxjxdyfjdcjyyjzdkrovdumyfdwqmovjpjxdaqc.j. 

"Rydcr.y!"dMd.rmx d"Fjzjdm.d.eljyfmphdxm.ympoycgdeqydeidyfj
ezxmprzg "

"Gj.,dmpxjjx,"d.rmxdAemzeydljxmyrymtjcg 

"Geqdumccdhedeidoeqz.j,"dMdoepympqjx 

Aemzeydpexxjx dFjdur.dyfmpvmphdxjjacg dImprccgdfjd.jjljxdyedlrvj
qadfm.dlmpx,drpxdhcrpojxdqadrydyfjdoceov dFm.dirojdur.dtjzgdhzrtj 

".jjdgeq,dlgdizmjpx,dyfjzjdm.dpedymljdyedce.j dYfjdOepympjpyrc
jbazj..dcjrtj.dTmoyezmrdryd11de'oceov dXedpeydrhmyryjdgeqz.jci dYfjzj
m.dacjpygdeidymlj dUjdorpdrcceudyjpdlmpqyj.diezdxm.oq..mep dGeq
rooelarpgdlj,d_p'j.y-ojdar._?"

"Ujcc--"

"Geqdyecxdljdgeqz.jcidyfrydgeqzdjlacegjzdpjjxjxdgeqdpeydiezdyfj
pjbydijudujjv. "

"Ef,dyfry'.drccdzmhfy dKqydyfm.dLz dZjprqcxdfmpy.d.yzephcgdyfry
fm.dkq.mpj..dm.dazmtryj "

"Yr-yr-yr dMdumccdlrprhjdL dZjprqcx dKgdyfjdurg,dMd.jjldyedvpeu
yfjdprlj?"

"Yfjzj'.drdujcc-vpeupd.eqyfdRljzmorpdlmccmeprmzjdijcceu dFm.dprlj'.
Zjprqcx dMdxep'ydvpeudufjyfjzdmydoeqcxdkjdyfjd.rlj "

"Kqydumyfeqydxeqky dYfrydjbacrmp.dyfjdljpymepdeid.rpymrhe d.rpymrhe
m.dmpdOfmcj,drpxdOfmcjdmydm.dmpd.eqyfdRljzmor!dRf,dkqydujdazehzj..
impjcg "

"Xjrzdlj,dAemzey,"dMd.rmx,dlgdjbomyjljpydzm.mph,d"Md.ljccd.elj
heexcgd.fjvjc.dmpdyfm. dMidujd.qoojjx,dujd.frccdlrvjdeqzdiezyqpj.!"

"Xedpeydkjdyeed.qzjdeidyfry,dlgdizmjpx dRdzmofdlrpdrpxdfm.dlepjg
rzjdpeyd.edjr.mcgdarzyjx dLj,dMdfrtjd.jjpdrdujcc-vpeupdlmccmeprmzj
yqzpdeqydrdyzrliqcdeidajeacjdyed.jjvdiezdrdxzeaajxdfrciajppg "

Mdrovpeucjxhjxdyfjdum.xeldeidyfm. 

"Mpdrpgdor.j,"doepympqjxdAemzey,d"mydm.dpeydyfjdlepjgdufmofdryyzroy.
ljdfjzj dOjzyrmpcgdmydumccdkjdacjr.rpydyedfrtjd_orzyjdkcrpofj_dmp
eqzdmptj.ymhrymep.;depjdorpdkjd.qzjdyfrydurgdeidur.ymphdpedymlj,
kqydmydm.d.eljyfmphdrdcmyycjdkmsrzzjdmpdyfm.dazekcjldufmofdrzeq.j.
lgdmpyjzj.y dGeqdzjlrzvjxdyfjdae.y.ozmay?dFeudxmxdmyd.yzmvjdgeq?"

Mdoep.mxjzjx 

"Ocjrzcgdfjduzeyjdyfjdcjyyjzdvjjamphdfml.jcidujccdmpdfrpx,dkqydry
yfjdjpxdfm.d.jci-oepyzecd.praajxdrpx,depdyfjdmlaqc.jdeidyfjdleljpy,
fjd.ozrucjxdyfe.jdieqzdxj.ajzryjduezx. "

Kqydlgdizmjpxd.feevdfm.dfjrxdjpjzhjymorccg 

"Geqdrzjdmpdjzzez d.jjdgeqdpeydyfrydufmcjdyfjdmpvdeidyfjd.mhpryqzj
m.dpjrzcgdkcrov,dyfrydeidyfjdae.y.ozmaydm.dwqmyjdarcj?"

"Ujcc?"dMd.rmxdaqsscjx 

"_LepdXmjq,dlepdrlm_,dkqydq.jdgeqzdcmyycjdhzjgdojcc.!dM.dmy
peydektmeq.?dL dZjprqcxduzeyjdfm.dcjyyjz dUmyfeqydkceyymphdmy,
fjdzjzjrxdmydorzjiqccg dYfjp,dpeydepdmlaqc.j,dkqydxjcmkjzryjcg,
fjdrxxjxdyfe.jdcr.yduezx.,drpxdkceyyjxdyfjd.fjjy "

"Kqydufg?"

"_Arzkcjq!_d.edyfrydmyd.feqcxdazexqojdyfjdjiijoydqaepdljdyfrydmy
fr.dqaepdgeq "

"Ufry?"

"_Lrm.,deqm_--yedlrvjd.qzjdeidlgdoelmph!dFjdzjzjrxdyfjdcjyyjzdrpx
ur.dxm..rym.imjx dMydur.dpeyd.yzephdjpeqhf!"

Fjdarq.jx,drpxdyfjpdrxxjxd.eiycg,dfm.djgj.d.fmpmphdumyfdyfrydhzjjp
cmhfydyfrydrcurg.dkjyevjpjxdmpurzxdjbomyjljpy:d"Rpxd.e,d_lepdrlm_,
.mpojdyfrydae.y.ozmaydur.drxxjx,dpeydepdmlaqc.j,dkqyd.ekjzcg,dmp
oecxdkceex,dyfjdqzhjpogdm.dtjzgdhzjry,drpxdujdlq.ydzjrofdfmldr.
.eepdr.dae..mkcj "

"Ljzcmptmccj,"dMdlqzlqzjxdyfeqhfyiqccg d"M'tjdfjrzxdeidmy,dMdyfmpv "

Aemzeydpexxjx 

"Mydm.drdwqmjydcmyycjdacroj--kqydofmo!dMydcmj.drkeqydlmxurgdkjyujjp
KeceqhpjdrpxdOrcrm. dMydm.dzramxcgdkjoelmphdyfjdir.fmep dZmof
Jphcm.fdajeacjdufedum.fdyedkjdwqmjydrzjdyrvmphdmydqa dL dZjprqcx
fr.drdfeq.jdmpdJphcrpx,dMd.qaae.j?"

"Gj.,dmpdZqycrpxdHryj,dr.dirzdr.dMdzjljlkjz dRc.edrdkmhdacrojdmp
yfjdoeqpyzg,d.eljufjzjdmpdFjzyiezx.fmzj ddKqydMdzjrccgdvpeudtjzg
cmyycjdrkeqydfml,dfjdxej.p'ydxedlqofdmpdrd.eomrcdurg dMdkjcmjtjdfj
fr.dcrzhjd.eqyfdRljzmorpdmpyjzj.y.dmpdyfjdOmyg,drpxdfr.d.ajpydle.y
eidfm.dcmijdeqydmpdOfmcjdrpxdyfjdRzhjpympe "

"Ujcc,dujd.frccdfjrzdrccdxjyrmc.dizeldyfjdlrpdfml.jci ddOelj,
cjydq.darov dRd.lrccd.qmy-or.jdjrof,drpxdyfjpdrdyrbmdyedTmoyezmr "

"RpxdyfjdOeqpyj..?"dMdmpwqmzjxdumyfdrd.lmcj 

"Rf!d_njdl'jpdimofj!_dFjzdor.jdur.dojzyrmpcgdpeydmpyjzj.ymph "

"Ufgd.ed.qzjdeidyfry?"

"Kjorq.jdmpdyfrydor.jd.fjdueqcxdfrtjdoelj,dpeyduzmyyjp dRduelrp
orppeydurmy--rcurg.dzjljlkjzdyfry,dFr.ymph. "

Jcjtjpde'oceovd.rudeqzdxjarzyqzjdizeldTmoyezmrdepdeqzdurg
yedXetjz dKjiezjd.yrzymphdAemzeydfrxdxj.aryofjxdrdyjcjhzrldye
Lz dZjprqcxdhmtmphdyfjdymljdeideqzdrzzmtrcdrydOrcrm. dd"M'ld.qzazm.jx
geqdfrtjp'ydmptj.yjxdmpdrdijudkeyycj.deid.eljd.jrd.movdzjljxg,
Aemzey,"dMdek.jztjxdlrcmomeq.cg,dr.dMdzjorccjxdeqzdoeptjz.rymep
rydkzjrvir.y 

Lgdizmjpx,dufedur.drpbmeq.cgd.orppmphdyfjdujryfjz,dyqzpjxdr
zjazerofiqcdirojdqaepdlj 

"M.dmydyfrydgeqdfrtjdiezheyyjpdyfjdljyfexdle.ydjbojccjpydei
Crtjzhqmjz?dFm.d.g.yjl,dMdazroym.jdmydrcurg. dEpjdkrcrpoj.depj.jci,
midgeqdzjljlkjz,dyqzpmphdyfjdfjrxdizeldcjiydyedzmhfy,dkzjryfmphdmp
rpxdeqy,doeqpymphd.mbdkjyujjpdjrofdkzjryf "

"F'l,"dMdxjlqzzjx d"Geq'ccdkjdzryfjzdymzjxdeidkrcrpomphdgeqz.jci
rpxdoeqpymphd.mbdkgdyfjdymljdgeqdhjydyed.rpymrhe,dezdKqjpe.dRgzj.,
ezdufjzjtjzdmydm.dgeqdcrpx "

"_Wqjccjdmxéj!_dGeqdxedpeydimhqzjdyedgeqz.jcidyfrydMd.frccdhe
yed.rpymrhe?"

"Lz dZjprqcxd.qhhj.y.dmydmpdfm.dcjyyjz "

"Fjdxmxdpeydvpeudyfjdljyfex.deidFjzoqcjdAemzey dMdxedpeydzqpdye
rpxdize,dlrvmphdneqzpjg.,drpxdrhmyrymphdlg.jci dLgduezvdm.dxepj
izeldumyfmp--_fjzj_--"dfjdyraajxdfm.diezjfjrxd.mhpmimorpycg 

R.dq.qrc,dyfm.dzjlrzvdzeq.jxdlgdrzhqljpyrymtjdiroqcyg 

"My'.drccdtjzgdujcc,dAemzey,dkqydMdyfmpvdgeqdrzjdirccmphdmpyedyfj
frkmydeidxj.am.mphdojzyrmpdyfmph.dyeedlqof dRdimphjz-azmpydfr.dcjx
.eljymlj.dyedyfjdrzzj.ydrpxdoeptmoymepdeidrdlqzxjzjz "

"Rpxdfr.,dumyfeqydxeqky,dfrphjxdlezjdyfrpdepjdmppeojpydlrp,"
zjlrzvjxdAemzeydxzgcg 

"Kqyd.qzjcgdyfjd.yqxgdeidimphjz-azmpy.drpxdieeyazmpy.,domhrzjyyj
r.f,dxmiijzjpydvmpx.deidlqx,drpxdeyfjzdocqj.dyfrydoelazm.jdyfj
lmpqyjdek.jztrymepdeidxjyrmc.--rccdyfj.jdrzjdeidtmyrcdmlaezyrpoj?"

"Kqydojzyrmpcg dMdfrtjdpjtjzd.rmxdeyfjzum.j dYfjdyzrmpjxdek.jztjz,
yfjdjbajzy,dumyfeqydxeqkydfjdm.dq.jiqc!ddKqydyfjdeyfjz.,dyfjdFjzoqcj.
Aemzey.,dyfjgdrzjdrketjdyfjdjbajzy.!dYedyfjldyfjdjbajzy.dkzmph
yfjdiroy.,dyfjmzdkq.mpj..dm.dyfjdljyfexdeidyfjdozmlj,dmy.dcehmorc
xjxqoymep,dyfjdazeajzd.jwqjpojdrpxdezxjzdeidyfjdiroy.;drketjdrcc,
yfjdyzqjda.gofecehgdeidyfjdor.j dGeqdfrtjdfqpyjxdyfjdieb,dgj.?"

"Mdfrtjdfqpyjxdrdkmy,dpeudrpxdrhrmp,"dMd.rmx,dzryfjzdkjumcxjzjxdkg
yfm.drkzqaydofrphjdeid.qknjoy d"Ufg?"

"_Jfdkmjp_,dyfm.dfqpymphdeidyfjdieb,dgeqdpjjxdyfjdxeh.,dpe?"

"Feqpx.,"dMdoezzjoyjxdhjpycg d"Gj.,deidoeqz.j "

"Kqydgjy,"dAemzeydurhhjxdfm.dimphjzdrydlj d"Geqdxmxdpeydxj.ojpx
izeldgeqzdfez.jdrpxdzqpdrcephdyfjdhzeqpxd.ljccmphdumyfdgeqzdpe.j
rpxdqyyjzmphdceqxdEudEu.?"

Mpd.amyjdeidlg.jcidMdcrqhfjxdmllexjzryjcg dAemzeydpexxjxdmpdr
.rym.imjxdlrppjz 

".e dGeqdcjrtjdyfjduezvdeidyfjdx-----dfeqpx.dyedyfjdfeqpx. dGjydgeq
xjlrpxdyfrydM,dFjzoqcjdAemzey,d.feqcxdlrvjdlg.jcidzmxmoqceq.dkg
cgmphdxeupd(ae..mkcgdepdxrladhzr..)dyed.yqxgdfgaeyfjymorcdieeyazmpy.,
rpxd.feqcxd.oeeadqadomhrzjyyjdr.fdufjpdMdxedpeydvpeudepjdvmpxdizel
yfjdeyfjz dZjljlkjzdyfjdAcgleqyfdJbazj..dlg.yjzg dYfjdheexdNraa
xjarzyjxdyedlrvjdrd.qztjgdeidyfjdzrmcurgdcmpj dUfjpdfjdzjyqzpjx,
M,dumyfeqydfrtmphdletjxdizeldlgdrarzyljpy.,dur.drkcjdyedyjccdfml
jbroycgdufrydfjdfrxdieqpx "

".edgeqdrzjdeidyfjdeampmepdyfrydNraadur.yjxdfm.dymlj "

"Peydrydrcc,d.mpojdfm.djtmxjpojdoepimzljxdlgdyfjezg ddKqyd_M_
.feqcxdfrtjdur.yjxdlgdymljdmid_M_dfrxdhepj dMydm.dyfjd.rlj
umyfd.edorccjxd'jbajzy. 'dZjljlkjzdyfjdfrpxuzmymphdyj.ymlepg
mpdyfjdOrtjpxm.fdOr.j dEpjdoeqp.jc'.dwqj.ymepmphdkzmph.deqy
yj.ymlepgdr.dyedyfjdzj.jlkcrpoj.,dyfjdxjijpojdkzmph.djtmxjpojdye
.feudxm..mlmcrzmyg dRccdyfjdcrphqrhjdm.dtjzgdyjofpmorc dRpxdyfj
zj.qcy?dUfrydujdrccdvpjudmpdyfjdimz.ydacroj dYfjduzmymphdur.dtjzg
cmvjdyfrydeidNefpdOrtjpxm.f dRpxdyfjda.gofecehmorcdlmpxdm.dirojx
umyfdyfjdwqj.ymepd'Ufg?'dKjorq.jdmydur.droyqrccgdfm.?ddEzdkjorq.j
.eljdepjdum.fjxdq.dyedyfmpvdmydur.dfm.?dMdrp.ujzjxdyfrydwqj.ymep,
_lepdrlm_,drpxdrp.ujzjxdmydoezzjoycg "

RpxdAemzey,dfrtmphdjiijoyqrccgd.mcjpojx,dmidpeydoeptmpojxdlj,
cjrpjxdkrovdumyfdrd.rym.imjxdrmz 

Epdyfjdkery,dMdvpjudkjyyjzdyfrpdyedxm.yqzkdlgdizmjpx'.d.ecmyqxj dYfj
ujryfjzdur.dhezhjeq.,drpxdyfjd.jrdr.d.leeyfdr.dyfjdazetjzkmrc
lmcc-aepx,d.edMdur.dfrzxcgd.qzazm.jxdyedfjrzdyfrydCrtjzhqmjz'.
ljyfexdfrxdepojdlezjdnq.ymimjxdmy.jcidufjpdrd.lmcmphdAemzeydnempjx
ljdepdxm.jlkrzvmphdrydOrcrm. dRdxm.raaempyljpydur.dmpd.yezjdiezdq.,
r.dpedorzdfrxdkjjpd.jpydyedljjydq.,dkqydAemzeydaqydyfm.dxeupdye
fm.dyjcjhzrldfrtmphdkjjpdxjcrgjxdmpdyzrp.my 

".mpojdmydm.d_orzyjdkcrpofj_,dujdumccdfmzjdrdorz,"dfjd.rmx
ofjjziqccg dRpxdrdijudlmpqyj.dcryjzd.rudq.dozjrvmphdrpxdnecymph
rceph,dmpdyfjdle.ydzrl.frovcjdeidrqyelekmcj.dyfrydjtjzdacmjxdiez
fmzj,dmpdyfjdxmzjoymepdeidLjzcmptmccj 

Lgd.amzmy.dujzjdrydyfjmzdfmhfj.y 

"Ufrydhezhjeq.drmz!"dMdjbocrmljx d"Yfm.dazelm.j.dyedkjdrdxjcmhfyiqc
yzma "

"Iezdgeq,dgj. dIezdlj,dMdfrtjduezvdyedxe,dzjljlkjz,drydeqzdneqzpjg'.
jpx "

"Krf!"dMd.rmxdofjjziqccg d"Geqdumccdxm.oetjzdrcc,djp.qzjdyfm.
Lz dZjprqcx'.d.rijyg,dzqpdyfjdueqcx-kjdr..r..mp.dyedjrzyf,drpxdrcc
umccdimpm.fdmpdrdkcrsjdeidhcezg "

"Geqdrzjd.rphqmpj,dlgdizmjpx "

"Gj.,dMdijjcdrk.ecqyjcgdr..qzjxdeid.qooj.. dRzjdgeqdpeydyfjdepj
rpxdepcgdFjzoqcjdAemzey?"

Kqydlgdcmyycjdizmjpxdxmxdpeydzm.jdyedyfjdkrmy dFjdur.dek.jztmph
ljdhzrtjcg 

"Geqdrzjdufrydyfjd.oeyofdajeacjdorccd'ijg,'dFr.ymph. ddMydazj.rhj.
xm.r.yjz "

"Pep.jp.j dRydrpgdzryj,dgeqdxedpeyd.frzjdlgdijjcmph. "

"Pe,dkqydMdrldrizrmx "

"Rizrmxdeidufry?"

"Mdxedpeydvpeu dKqydMdfrtjdrdazjlepmymep--rd_njdpjd.rm.dwqem_!"

Fjd.aevjd.edhzrtjcg,dyfrydMdur.dmlazj..jxdmpd.amyjdeidlg.jci 

"Mdfrtjdrdijjcmph,"dfjd.rmxd.ceucg,d"yfrydyfm.dm.dhemphdyedkjdr
kmhdriirmz--rdceph,dyzeqkcj.eljdazekcjldyfrydumccdpeydkjdjr.gdye
uezvdeqy "

Mdueqcxdfrtjdwqj.ymepjxdfmldiqzyfjz,dkqydujdujzjdnq.ydoelmphdmpye
yfjdcmyycjdyeupdeidLjzcmptmccj,drpxdujd.ceujxdqadyedmpwqmzjdyfj
urgdyedyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj 

".yzrmhfydep,dlep.mjqz,dyfzeqhfdyfjdyeup dYfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètjdm.
rkeqydfrcidrdlmcjdyfjdeyfjzd.mxj dGeqdorppeydlm..dmy dRdkmhdTmccr,
etjzceevmphdyfjd.jr "

Ujdyfrpvjxdeqzdmpiezlrpy,drpxdxzetjdep,dcjrtmphdyfjdyeupdkjfmpx dR
iezvdmpdyfjdzerxdkzeqhfydq.dyedrd.joepxdfrcy dRdajr.rpydur.dyzqxhmph
yeurzx.dq.,drpxdujdurmyjxdiezdfmldyedoeljdqadyedq.dmpdezxjzdyedr.v
yfjdurgdrhrmp ddYfjzjdur.drdympgdTmccrd.yrpxmphdzmhfydkgdyfjdzerx,
kqydmydur.dyeed.lrccdrpxdxmcramxryjxdyedkjdyfjdepjdujdurpyjx 
R.dujdurmyjx,dyfjdhryjdeidmyd.uqphdeajpdrpxdrdhmzcdorljdeqy 

Yfjdajr.rpydur.dar..mphdq.dpeu,drpxdyfjdxzmtjzdcjrpjxdiezurzxdizel
fm.d.jrydrpxdr.vjxdiezdxmzjoymep 

"YfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj?dNq.ydrdijud.yja.dqadyfm.dzerxdyedyfjdzmhfy,
lep.mjqz dGeqdoeqcxd.jjdmydmidmydujzjdpeydiezdyfjdoqztj "

Yfjdofrqiijqzdyfrpvjxdfml,drpxd.yrzyjxdyfjdorzdrhrmp dLgdjgj.dujzj
ir.ompryjxdkgdyfjdhmzcdufed.ymccd.yeex,dumyfdepjdfrpxdepdyfjdhryj,
uryofmphdq. dMdrldrpdrxlmzjzdeidkjrqyg,drpxdfjzjdur.depjdufeldpekexg
oeqcxdfrtjdar..jxdumyfeqydzjlrzv dTjzgdyrcc,dumyfdyfjdazeaezymep.dei
rdgeqphdhexxj..,dfjzdqpoetjzjxdhecxjpdfjrxdhcjrlmphdmpdyfjd.qpcmhfy,
Md.uezjdyedlg.jcidyfryd.fjdur.depjdeidyfjdle.ydkjrqymiqcdhmzc.dM
frxdjtjzd.jjp dR.dujd.uqphdqadyfjdzeqhfdzerx,dMdyqzpjxdlgdfjrxdye
ceevdriyjzdfjz 

"KgdNetj,dAemzey,"dMdjbocrmljx,d"xmxdgeqd.jjdyfrydgeqphdhexxj.. "

Aemzeydzrm.jxdfm.djgjkzeu. 

"_Çrdoelljpoj!_"dfjdlqzlqzjx d"Rczjrxgdgeqdfrtjd.jjpdrdhexxj..!"

"Kqy,dfrphdmydrcc,dur.p'yd.fj?"

"Ae..mkcg dMdxmxdpeydzjlrzvdyfjdiroy "

".qzjcgdgeqdpeymojxdfjz?"

"_Lepdrlm_,dyuedajeacjdzrzjcgd.jjdyfjd.rljdyfmph ddGeq,diezdmp.yrpoj,
.rudrdhexxj.. dM--"dfjdfj.myryjx 

"Gj.?"

"Md.rudepcgdrdhmzcdumyfdrpbmeq.djgj.,"d.rmxdAemzeydhzrtjcg 

Kqydrydyfrydleljpydujdxzjudqadrydrdkmhdhzjjpdhryj,drpx,
.mlqcyrpjeq.cg,dujdkeyfdqyyjzjxdrpdjbocrlrymep ddKjiezjdmyd.yeex
rpdmlae.mphd_.jzhjpydxjdtmccj_ dFjdfjcxdqadfm.dfrpxdyedkrzdeqzdurg 

"Geqdorppeydar..,dlep.mjqz. "

"Kqydujdum.fdyed.jjdLz dZjprqcx,"dMdozmjx d"Ujdfrtjdrp
raaempyljpy dYfm.dm.dfm.dTmccr,dm.p'ydmy?"

"Gj.,dlep.mjqz,dkqy--"

Aemzeydcjrpjxdiezurzx 

"Kqydufry?"

"L dZjprqcxdur.dlqzxjzjxdyfm.dlezpmph "




3

RydyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj


MpdrdleljpydAemzeydfrxdcjraydizeldyfjdorz,dfm.djgj.dkcrsmphdumyf
jbomyjljpy dFjdorqhfydyfjdlrpdkgdyfjd.feqcxjz 

"Ufrydm.dyfrydgeqd.rg?dLqzxjzjx?dUfjp?dFeu?"

Yfjd_.jzhjpydxjdtmccj_dxzjudfml.jcidqa 

"Mdorppeydrp.ujzdrpgdwqj.ymep.,dlep.mjqz "

"Yzqj dMdoelazjfjpx "dAemzeydzjicjoyjxdiezdrdlmpqyj dd"YfjdOellm..rzg
eidAecmoj,dfjdm.dumyfeqydxeqkydumyfmp?"

"Gj.,dlep.mjqz "

Aemzeydyeevdeqydrdorzx,drpxd.ozmkkcjxdrdijuduezx.depdmy 

"_Temcà!_dUmccdgeqdfrtjdyfjdheexpj..dyed.jjdyfrydyfm.dorzxdm.d.jpy
mpdyedyfjdoellm..rzgdrydepoj?"

Yfjdlrpdyeevdmydrpx,dyqzpmphdfm.dfjrxdetjzdfm.d.feqcxjz,
ufm.ycjx dMpdrdijud.joepx.drdoelzrxjdnempjxdfmldrpxdur.dfrpxjx
Aemzey'.dlj..rhj dYfjzjdur.drdurmydeid.eljdlmpqyj.,drpxdyfjpdr
.fezyd.yeqydlrpdumyfdrdfqhjdleq.yrofjdorljdkq.ycmphdxeupdyedyfj
hryj dYfjd_.jzhjpydxjdtmccj_d.rcqyjxdrpxd.yeexdr.mxj 

"LgdxjrzdL dAemzey,"dozmjxdyfjdpju-oeljz,d"Mdrldxjcmhfyjxdyed.jj
geq dGeqzdrzzmtrcdm.dle.ydeaaezyqpj "

Aemzey'.dirojdfrxdcmhfyjxdqa 

"L dKjb!dYfm.dm.dmpxjjxdrdacjr.qzj "dFjdyqzpjxdyedlj d"Yfm.dm.drp
Jphcm.fdizmjpxdeidlmpj,dOrayrmpdFr.ymph.--L dCqomjpdKjb "

Yfjdoellm..rzgdrpxdMdkeujxdyedjrofdeyfjzdojzjlepmeq.cg,dyfjpdL dKjb
yqzpjxdepojdlezjdyedAemzey 

"_Lepdtmjqb_,dMdfrtjdpeyd.jjpdgeqd.mpojd1909,dyfrydymljdmpdE.yjpx dM
fjrzxdyfrydgeqdfrxdcjiydyfjdIezoj?"

".edMdfrtj dMdzqpdrdazmtryjdkq.mpj..dmpdCepxep "

"Rpxdgeqd.rgdgeqdfrtjdmpiezlrymepdyedhmtjdufmofdlrgdr..m.ydq.?"

"Ae..mkcgdgeqdvpeudmydrczjrxg dGeqdujzjdrurzjdyfrydMdfrxdkjjp
.jpydiez?"

"Pe dKgdufel?"

"Yfjdxjrxdlrp dMyd.jjl.dfjdvpjudrpdryyjlaydur.dhemphdyedkjdlrxjdep
fm.dcmij dQpiezyqpryjcgdfjd.jpydiezdljdyeedcryj "

"_.rozmdyeppjzzj!_"djnroqcryjxdyfjdIzjpoflrp d".edfjdiezj.rudfm.
eupdlqzxjz?dYfrydqa.jy.deqzdyfjezmj.doep.mxjzrkcg!ddKqydoeljdmp.mxj "

Fjdfjcxdyfjdhryjdeajp,drpxdujdoelljpojxdurcvmphdyeurzx.dyfj
feq.j dL dKjbdoepympqjxdyedyrcv:

"Yfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj,dL dFrqyjy,dlq.ydfjrzdeidyfm.drydepoj dFj
fr.dnq.ydimpm.fjxdjbrlmpmphdyfjd.ojpjdeidyfjdozmljdrpxdm.drkeqydye
kjhmpdfm.dmpyjzzehrymep. dRdofrzlmphdlrp dGeqdumccdcmvjdfml dLe.y
.glaryfjymo ddEzmhmprcdmpdfm.dljyfex.,dkqydrpdjbojccjpydnqxhj "

"Ufjpdur.dyfjdozmljdoellmyyjx?"dr.vjxdAemzey 

"Yfjdkexgdur.dxm.oetjzjxdyfm.dlezpmphdrkeqydpmpjde'oceov dLrxrlj
Zjprqcx'.djtmxjpoj,drpxdyfrydeidyfjdxeoyez.dhej.dyed.feudyfrydyfj
xjryfdlq.ydfrtjdeooqzzjxdrkeqyd2dr l dKqydjpyjz,dMdazrgdeidgeq "

Ujdfrxdrzzmtjxdrydyfjd.yja.dufmofdcjxdqadyedyfjdizepydxeezdeidyfj
Tmccr dMpdyfjdfrccdrpeyfjzd_.jzhjpydxjdtmccj_dur.d.myymph dFjdze.j
ryd.mhfydeidyfjdoellm..rzg 

"Ufjzjdm.dL dFrqyjydpeu?"dmpwqmzjxdyfjdcryyjz 

"Mpdyfjd_.rcep_,dlep.mjqz "

L dKjbdeajpjxdrdxeezdyedyfjdcjiydeidyfjdfrcc,drpxdujdar..jx
mp dL dFrqyjydrpxdfm.docjzvdujzjd.myymphdrydrdkmhdzeqpxdyrkcj dYfjg
ceevjxdqadr.dujdjpyjzjx dYfjdoellm..rzgdmpyzexqojxdq.,drpxdjbacrmpjx
eqzdazj.jpoj 

L dFrqyjy,dyfjdNqhjdx'Mp.yzqoymep,dur.drdyrcc,dhrqpydlrp,dumyf
amjzomphdxrzvdjgj.,drpxdrdpjrycgdoqydhzjgdkjrzx,dufmofdfjdfrxdr
frkmydeidorzj..mphdr.dfjdyrcvjx dd.yrpxmphdkgdyfjdlrpyjcamjojdur.
rpdjcxjzcgdlrp,dumyfd.cmhfycgd.yeeamphd.feqcxjz.,dufedur.dmpyzexqojx
yedq.dr.dXz dXqzrpx 

"Le.ydjbyzrezxmprzg,"dzjlrzvjxdL dFrqyjy,dr.dyfjdoellm..rzgdimpm.fjx
.ajrvmph d"Geqdfrtjdyfjdcjyyjzdfjzj,dlep.mjqz?"

Aemzeydfrpxjxdmydyedfml,drpxdyfjdlrhm.yzryjdzjrxdmy 

"F'l dFjd.ajrv.deidrd.jozjy dUfrydrdamygdfjdur.dpeydlezjdjbacmomy dUj
rzjdlqofdmpxjkyjxdyedgeq,dL dAemzey ddMdfeajdgeqdumccdxedq.dyfj
fepeqzdeidr..m.ymphdq.dmpdeqzdmptj.ymhrymep. dEzdrzjdgeqdekcmhjx
yedzjyqzpdyedCepxep?"

"L dcjdnqhj,dMdazeae.jdyedzjlrmp dMdxmxdpeydrzzmtjdmpdymljdye
azjtjpydlgdocmjpy'.dxjryf,dkqydMdijjcdlg.jcidkeqpxdmpdfepeqzdye
xm.oetjzdyfjdr..r..mp "

Yfjdlrhm.yzryjdkeujx 

"Yfj.jd.jpymljpy.dxedgeqdfepeqz dRc.e,dumyfeqydxeqky,dLrxrljdZjprqcx
umccdum.fdyedzjyrmpdgeqzd.jztmoj. ddUjdrzjdjbajoymphdL dHmzrqxdizel
yfjd.ûzjyédmpdArzm.drpgdleljpy,drpxdMdrld.qzjdyfrydgeqdrpxdfjdumcc
kjdrkcjdyedhmtjdjrofdeyfjzdlqyqrcdr..m.yrpojdmpdgeqzdmptj.ymhrymep. 
Mpdyfjdljrpymlj,dMdfeajdyfrydgeqdumccdxedljdyfjdfepeqzdyedkjdazj.jpy
rydlgdmpyjzzehrymep.,drpxdMdpjjxdfrzxcgd.rgdyfrydmidyfjzjdm.drpg
r..m.yrpojdgeqdzjwqmzjdmydm.drydgeqzdxm.ae.rc "

"Mdyfrpvdgeq,dlep.mjqz dGeqdumccdoelazjfjpxdyfrydrydazj.jpydMdrl
oelacjyjcgdmpdyfjdxrzv dMdvpeudpeyfmphdufryjtjz "

L dFrqyjydpexxjxdyedyfjdoellm..rzg,drpxdyfjdcryyjzdyeevdqadyfjdyrcj:

"Yfm.dlezpmph,dyfjdecxd.jztrpydIzrpçem.j,depdxj.ojpxmphdyed.yrzy
fjzduezv,dieqpxdyfjdizepydxeezdrnrz dIjjcmphdrdleljpyrzgdrcrzldr.dye
kqzhcrz.,d.fjdceevjxdmpyedyfjdxmpmph-zeel,dkqyd.jjmphdyfjd.mctjzdur.
.rijd.fjdyfeqhfydpedlezjdrkeqydmy,doepocqxmphdyfrydfjzdlr.yjzdfrx,
umyfeqydxeqky,dzm.jpdjrzcg,drpxdhepjdiezdrd.yzecc "

"Arzxep,dlep.mjqz,diezdmpyjzzqaymph,dkqydur.dyfrydrdoellepdazroymoj
eidfm.?"

"Pe,dmydur.dpey,dkqydecxdIzrpçem.jdfr.dyfjdoellepdmxjrdr.
zjhrzx.dyfjdJphcm.f--yfrydyfjgdrzjdlrx,drpxdcmrkcjdyedxedyfjdle.y
qprooeqpyrkcjdyfmph.drydrpgdleljpy!ddHemphdyedorccdfjzdlm.yzj..
r.dq.qrc,drdgeqphjzdlrmx,dCéepmj,dur.dfezzmimjxdyedxm.oetjzdfjz
hrhhjxdrpxdkeqpx,drpxdrcle.ydrydyfjd.rljdleljpydpju.dur.dkzeqhfy
yfrydL dZjprqcx'.dkexgdfrxdkjjpdxm.oetjzjx,d.yepjdxjrx,d.yrkkjxdmp
yfjdkrov "

"Ufjzj?"

"Yfrydm.depjdeidyfjdle.ydjbyzrezxmprzgdijryqzj.deidyfj
or.j dL dAemzey,dyfjdkexgdur.dcgmph,dirojdxeupurzx.,d_mpdrpdeajp
hzrtj_ "

"Ufry?"

"Gj. dYfjdamydur.dizj.fcgdxqh--nq.ydrdijudgrzx.deqy.mxjdyfjdkeqpxrzg
eidyfjdTmccrdhzeqpx. "

"Rpxdfjdfrxdkjjpdxjrx--feudceph?"

Xz dXqzrpxdrp.ujzjxdyfm. 

"Mdjbrlmpjxdyfjdkexgdyfm.dlezpmphdrydyjpde'oceov ddXjryfdlq.ydfrtj
yrvjpdacrojdrydcjr.yd.jtjp,drpxdae..mkcgdyjpdfeqz.dazjtmeq.cg "

"F'l,dyfrydimbj.dmydrydkjyujjpdlmxpmhfydrpxd3dr l "

"Jbroycg,drpxdLrxrljdZjprqcx'.djtmxjpojdacroj.dmydrydriyjzd2
r l dufmofdprzzeu.dyfjdimjcxd.ymccdiqzyfjz ddXjryfdlq.ydfrtjdkjjp
mp.yrpyrpjeq.,drpxdpryqzrccgdoeqcxdpeydfrtjdkjjpd.jci-mpicmoyjx "

Aemzeydpexxjx,drpxdyfjdoellm..rzgdzj.qljx:

"LrxrljdZjprqcxdur.dfr.ymcgdizjjxdizeldyfjdoezx.dyfrydkeqpxdfjzdkg
yfjdfezzmimjxd.jztrpy. d.fjdur.dmpdrdyjzzmkcjdoepxmymepdeidujrvpj..,
rcle.ydqpoep.omeq.dizeldyfjdarmpdeidfjzdkepx. dMydraajrz.dyfry
yuedlr.vjxdljpdjpyjzjxdyfjdkjxzeel,dhrhhjxdrpxdkeqpxdfjz,dufmc.y
iezomkcgdrkxqoymphdfjzdfq.krpx dYfm.dujdvpeudryd.joepxdfrpxdizel
yfjd.jztrpy. dEpdfjrzmphdyfjdyzrhmodpju.,d.fjdijccdrydepojdmpyedrp
rcrzlmphd.yryjdeidrhmyrymep dEpdrzzmtrc,dXz dXqzrpxdmlljxmryjcg
azj.ozmkjxdrd.jxrymtj,drpxdujdfrtjdpeydgjydkjjpdrkcjdyedwqj.ymep
fjz dKqydumyfeqydxeqkyd.fjdumccdrurvjdlezjdorcl,drpxdkjdjwqrcdye
kjrzmphdyfjd.yzrmpdeidyfjdmpyjzzehrymep "

Yfjdoellm..rzgdarq.jx 

"Rpxdyfjdmplryj.deidyfjdfeq.j,dlep.mjqz?"

"Yfjzjdm.decxdIzrpçem.j,dyfjdfeq.jvjjajz,d.fjdcmtjxdiezdlrpgdgjrz.
umyfdyfjdiezljzdeupjz.deidyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj dYfjpdyfjzjdrzjdyue
geqphdhmzc.,d.m.yjz.,dXjpm.jdrpxdCéepmjdEqcrzx dYfjmzdfeljdm.dmp
Ljzcmptmccj,drpxdyfjgdoeljdeidyfjdle.ydzj.ajoyrkcjdarzjpy. dYfjp
yfjzjdm.dyfjdofrqiijqzdufeldL dZjprqcxdkzeqhfydetjzdizeldJphcrpxdumyf
fml,dkqydfjdm.drurgdepdrdfecmxrg ddImprccgdyfjzjdrzjdLrxrljdZjprqcx
rpxdfjzd.ep,dL dNrovdZjprqcx dFj,dyee,dm.drurgdizeldfeljdrydazj.jpy "

Aemzeydkeujxdfm.dfjrx dL dFrqyjyd.aevj:

"Lrzofrqx!"

Yfjd_.jzhjpydxjdtmccj_draajrzjx 

"KzmphdmpdyfjduelrpdIzrpçem.j "

Yfjdlrpd.rcqyjx,drpxdxm.raajrzjx dMpdrdleljpydezdyue,dfjdzjyqzpjx,
j.oezymphdyfjdizmhfyjpjxdIzrpçem.j 

"Geqdprljdm.dIzrpçem.jdRzzmofjy?"

"Gj.,dlep.mjqz "

"Geqdfrtjdkjjpdrdcephdymljdmpd.jztmojdrydyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj?"

"Jcjtjpdgjrz.dumyfdLrxrljdcrdTmoelyj..j dYfjpdufjpd.fjd.ecxdyfjdTmccr
yfm.d.azmph,dMdoep.jpyjxdyedzjlrmpdepdumyfdyfjdJphcm.fdlmcez dPjtjz
xmxdMdmlrhmpj--"

Yfjdlrhm.yzryjdoqydfjzd.fezy 

"Umyfeqydxeqky,dumyfeqydxeqky dPeu,dIzrpçem.j,dmpdyfm.dlryyjzdei
yfjdizepydxeez,dufe.jdkq.mpj..dur.dmydyedir.yjpdmydrydpmhfy?"

"Lmpj,dlep.mjqz dRcurg.dMd.rudyedmydlg.jci "

"Rpxdcr.ydpmhfy?"

"Mdir.yjpjxdmydr.dq.qrc "

"Geqdrzjd.qzjdeidyfry?"

"Md.ujrzdmydkgdyfjdkcj..jxd.rmpy.,dlep.mjqz "

"Ufrydymljdueqcxdyfrydkj?"

"Yfjd.rljdymljdr.dq.qrc,dfrci-ar.ydyjp,dlep.mjqz "

"Ufrydrkeqydyfjdzj.ydeidyfjdfeq.jfecx,dfrxdyfjgdhepjdqadyedkjx?"

"Lrxrljdfrxdzjymzjxd.eljdymljdkjiezj dXjpm.jdrpxdCéepmjdujpydqa
umyfdlj dLep.mjqzdur.d.ymccdmpdfm.d.yqxg "

"Yfjp,dmidrpgdepjdqpir.yjpjxdyfjdxeezdriyjzurzx.,dmydlq.ydfrtjdkjjp
L dZjprqcxdfml.jci?"

Izrpçem.jd.fzqhhjxdfjzdkzerxd.feqcxjz. 

"Ufryd.feqcxdfjdxedyfrydiez?dUmyfdzekkjz.drpxdr..r..mp.dar..mph
jtjzgdlmpqyj!dRdpmojdmxjr!dLep.mjqzdur.dpeydrpdmlkjomcj dMydm.dpey
r.dyfeqhfdfjdfrxdfrxdyedcjyd_ojyyjdxrlj_deqy--"

Yfjdlrhm.yzryjdmpyjzzqayjxd.frzacg:

"_Ojyyjdxrlj?_dUfrydcrxgdxedgeqdljrp?"

"Ufg,dyfjdcrxgdufedorljdyed.jjdfml "

"Frxdrdcrxgdkjjpdyed.jjdfmldyfrydjtjpmph?"

"Kqydgj.,dlep.mjqz--rpxdlrpgdeyfjzdjtjpmph.dr.dujcc "

"Ufedur.d.fj?dXmxdgeqdvpeudfjz?"

Rdzryfjzdoqppmphdceevd.azjrxdetjzdyfjduelrp'.diroj dd"Feud.feqcx
Mdvpeudufedmydur.?"d.fjdhzqlkcjx d"Mdxmxdpeydcjydfjzdmpdcr.ydpmhfy "

"Rfr!"dzerzjxdyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj,dkzmphmphdfm.dfrpxdxeupdumyf
rdkrphdepdyfjdyrkcj d"Geqdueqcxdyzmicjdumyfdyfjdaecmoj,dueqcxdgeq?dM
xjlrpxdyfrydgeqdyjccdljdrydepojdyfjdprljdeidyfm.duelrpdufedorljdye
tm.mydL dZjprqcxdmpdyfjdjtjpmph. "

"Yfjdaecmoj--yfjdaecmoj,"dhzqlkcjxdIzrpçem.j dd"PjtjzdxmxdMdyfmpv
yfrydMd.feqcxdkjdlmbjxdqadumyfdyfjdaecmoj dKqydMdvpeudujccdjpeqhf
ufed.fjdur. dMydur.dLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc "

Yfjdoellm..rzgdqyyjzjxdrpdjbocrlrymep,drpxdcjrpjxdiezurzxdr.dyfeqhf
mpdqyyjzdr.yepm.fljpy 

"LrxrljdXrqkzjqmc--izeldyfjdTmccrdLrzhqjzmyjdnq.ydxeupdyfjdzerx?"

"Yfrydm.dufrydMd.rmx,dlep.mjqz dEf,d.fjdm.drdazjyygdepj,
_ojccjcr_!"dYfjdecxduelrpdye..jxdfjzdfjrxd.oezpiqccg 

"LrxrljdXrqkzjqmc,"dlqzlqzjxdyfjdoellm..rzg dd"Mlae..mkcj "

"_Temcà_,"dhzqlkcjxdIzrpçem.j d"Yfrydm.drccdgeqdhjydiezdyjccmph
yfjdyzqyf "

"Peydrydrcc,"d.rmxdyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjd.eeyfmphcg dd"Ujdujzj
.qzazm.jx,dyfrydm.drcc dLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdyfjp,drpxdLep.mjqzdZjprqcx,
yfjgdujzj--"dfjdarq.jxdxjcmoryjcg d"Jf?dMydur.dyfrydumyfeqydxeqky?"

"Feud.feqcxdMdvpeu?dKqydufrydumccdgeq?dLep.mjqz,dfjdur.d_lmcez
rphcrm._--_yzé.dzmofj_--rpxdLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc,d.fjdur.daeez,dyfry
epj--rpxd_yzé.dofmo_diezdrccdyfryd.fjdcmtj.d.edwqmjycgdumyfdfjz
xrqhfyjz dPeydrdxeqkydeidmy,d.fjdfr.dfrxdfjzdfm.yezg!d.fjdm.dpe
cephjzdgeqph,dkqyd_lrdiem!_dMdufed.ajrvdyedgeqdfrtjd.jjpdyfjdljp'.
fjrx.dyqzpdriyjzdfjzdr.d.fjdhej.dxeupdyfjd.yzjjy dKj.mxj.dcryjcg,
.fjdfr.dfrxdlezjdlepjgdyed.ajpx--rccdyfjdyeupdvpeu.dmy dYfjdcmyycj
joepelmj.,dyfjgdrzjdrydrpdjpx "dRpxdIzrpçem.jd.feevdfjzdfjrxdumyf
rpdrmzdeidqprcyjzrkcjdojzyrmpyg 

L dFrqyjyd.yzevjxdfm.dkjrzxdzjicjoymtjcg 

"RpxdLrxrljdZjprqcx?"dfjdr.vjxdrydcjphyf d"Feudxmxd.fjdyrvj
yfm.--izmjpx.fma "

Izrpçem.jd.fzqhhjxdfjzd.feqcxjz. 

".fjdur.drcurg.dle.ydrlmrkcj--le.ydaecmyj dEpjdueqcxd.rgdyfry
.fjd.q.ajoyjxdpeyfmph dKqydrccdyfjd.rlj,dm.dmydpeyd.e,dyfjdfjrzy
.qiijz.,dlep.mjqz?dXrgdkgdxrg,dMdfrtjduryofjxdLrxrljdhzeudarcjzdrpx
yfmppjz d.fjdur.dpeydyfjd.rljduelrpdufedrzzmtjxdfjzjdrdlepyfdrhe 
Lep.mjqz,dyee,dfr.dofrphjx dFjdrc.edfr.dfrxdfm.duezzmj. dEpjdoeqcx
.jjdyfrydfjdur.depdyfjdkzmpvdeidrdozm.m.deidyfjdpjztj. dRpxdufe
oeqcxduepxjz,dumyfdrpdriirmzdoepxqoyjxd.qofdrdir.fmep?dPedzjymojpoj,
pedxm.ozjymep d_.ygcjdrphcrm._,dumyfeqydxeqky!"

Mdkeqpxjxdmpxmhprpycgdmpdlgd.jry,dkqydyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdur.
oepympqmphdfm.dwqj.ymep.,dqpxm.yzroyjxdkgd.mxjdm..qj. 

"Geqd.rgdyfrydL dZjprqcxdfrxdpeydyedcjydLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdeqy?dFrx
.fjdcjiy,dyfjp?"

"Gj.,dlep.mjqz dMdfjrzxdyfjldoeljdeqydeidyfjd.yqxgdrpxdhedyedyfj
xeez dLep.mjqzd.rmxdheexdpmhfy,drpxd.fqydyfjdxeezdriyjzdfjz "

"Ufrydymljdur.dyfry?"

"Rkeqydyujpyg-imtjdlmpqyj.driyjzdyjp,dlep.mjqz "

"XedgeqdvpeudufjpdL dZjprqcxdujpydyedkjx?"

"Mdfjrzxdfmldoeljdqadrkeqydyjpdlmpqyj.driyjzdujdxmx ddYfjd.yrmz
ozjrv.d.edyfrydepjdfjrz.djtjzgdepjdufedhej.dqadrpxdxeup "

"Rpxdyfrydm.drcc?dGeqdfjrzxdped.eqpxdeidxm.yqzkrpojdxqzmphdyfj
pmhfy?"

"Peyfmphdufryjtjz,dlep.mjqz "

"Ufmofdeidyfjd.jztrpy.dorljdxeupdyfjdimz.ydmpdyfjdlezpmph?"

"Mdxmx,dlep.mjqz dRydepojdMd.rudyfjdxeezd.umphmphdeajp "

"Ufrydrkeqydyfjdeyfjzdxeup.yrmz.dumpxeu.,dujzjdyfjgdrccdir.yjpjx?"

"Jtjzgdepjdeidyfjl dYfjzjdur.dpeyfmphd.q.amomeq.dezdeqydeidacroj
rpgufjzj "

"Heex,dIzrpçem.j,dgeqdorpdhe "

Yfjdecxduelrpd.fqiicjxdyeurzx.dyfjdxeez dEpdyfjdyfzj.fecxd.fj
ceevjxdkrov 

"Mdumccdyjccdgeqdepjdyfmph,dlep.mjqz dYfrydLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcd.fj
m.drdkrxdepj!dEf,dgj.,depjduelrpdvpeu.drkeqydrpeyfjz d.fjdm.drdkrx
epj,dzjljlkjzdyfry "dRpx,d.frvmphdfjzdfjrxd.rhjcg,dIzrpçem.jdcjiy
yfjdzeel 

"CéepmjdEqcrzx,"dorccjxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj 

Céepmjdraajrzjxdxm..ectjxdmpdyjrz.,drpxdmpocmpjxdyedkj
fg.yjzmorc dL dFrqyjydxjrcydumyfdfjzdrxzemycg dFjzdjtmxjpojdur.
lrmpcgdoepojzpjxdumyfdyfjdxm.oetjzgdeidfjzdlm.yzj..dhrhhjxdrpx
keqpx,deidufmofd.fjdhrtjdzryfjzdrpdjbrhhjzryjxdrooeqpy d.fj,dcmvj
Izrpçem.j,dfrxdfjrzxdpeyfmphdxqzmphdyfjdpmhfy 

Fjzd.m.yjz,dXjpm.j,d.qoojjxjxdfjz d.fjdrhzjjxdyfrydfjzdlr.yjzdfrx
ofrphjxdhzjrycgdeidcryj 

"Jtjzgdxrgdfjdkjorljdlezjdrpxdlezjdleze.j dFjdryjdcj.. dFjdur.
rcurg.dxjazj..jx "dKqydXjpm.jdfrxdfjzdeupdyfjezg d"Umyfeqydxeqky
mydur.dyfjdLrimrdfjdfrxdepdfm.dyzrov!dYuedlr.vjxdljp--ufedjc.j
oeqcxdmydkj?dRdyjzzmkcjd.eomjygdyfry!"

"Mydm.,deidoeqz.j,dae..mkcj,"d.rmxdyfjdlrhm.yzryjd.leeyfcg d"Peu,
lgdhmzc,dur.dmydgeqdufedrxlmyyjxdLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdyedyfjdfeq.j
cr.ydpmhfy?"

"Peyd_cr.y_dpmhfy,dlep.mjqz,dyfjdpmhfydkjiezj "

"KqydIzrpçem.jdfr.dnq.ydyecxdq.dyfrydLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdur.dfjzj
cr.ydpmhfy?"

"Pe,dlep.mjqz dRdcrxgd_xmx_doeljdyed.jjdL dZjprqcxdcr.ydpmhfy,
kqydmydur.dpeydLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc "

.qzazm.jx,dyfjdlrhm.yzryjdmp.m.yjx,dkqydyfjdhmzcdfjcxdimzl d.fj
vpjudLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdajzijoycgdkgd.mhfy ddYfm.dcrxgdur.dxrzvdrc.e,
kqyd.fezyjz,drpxdlqofdgeqphjz dPeyfmphdoeqcxd.frvjdfjzd.yryjljpy 

"Frxdgeqdjtjzd.jjpdyfm.dcrxgdkjiezj?"

"Pjtjz,dlep.mjqz "dRpxdyfjpdyfjdhmzcdrxxjxdxmiimxjpycg:d"KqydM
yfmpvd.fjdur.dJphcm.f "

"Jphcm.f?"

"Gj.,dlep.mjqz d.fjdr.vjxdiezdL dZjprqcxdmpdwqmyjdheexdIzjpof,
kqydyfjdroojpy--epjdorpdrcurg.dyjccdmy,d_p'j.y-ojdar._?dKj.mxj.
ufjpdyfjgdorljdeqydeidyfjd.yqxgdyfjgdujzjd.ajrvmphdmpdJphcm.f "

"Xmxdgeqdfjrzdufrydyfjgd.rmx?dOeqcxdgeqdqpxjz.yrpxdmy,dMdljrp?"

"Lj,dMd.ajrvdyfjdJphcm.fdtjzgdujcc,"d.rmxdXjpm.jdumyfdazmxj d"Yfj
crxgdur.d.ajrvmphdyeedir.ydiezdljdyedoryofdufryd.fjd.rmx,dkqydM
fjrzxdLep.mjqz'.dcr.yduezx.dr.dfjdeajpjxdyfjdxeezdiezdfjz "d.fj
arq.jx,drpxdyfjpdzjajryjxdorzjiqccgdrpxdcrkezmeq.cg:

"'Gjr.--gjr.--kqyydiezdHrqx'.d.rmvjdhedprqu!'"

"Gj.,dgj.,dkqydiezdHex'.d.rvjdhedpeu!"dzjajryjxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj 

Fjdxm.lm..jxdXjpm.jdrpx,driyjzdrdleljpydezdyuediezdoep.mxjzrymep,
zjorccjxdIzrpçem.j dYedfjzdfjdazeaeqpxjxdyfjdwqj.ymepdr.dyedufjyfjz
.fjdfrxdpeydlrxjdrdlm.yrvjdmpdimbmphdyfjdpmhfydeidLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc'.
tm.my ddIzrpçem.j,dfeujtjz,dazetjxdqpjbajoyjxcgdek.ympryj dMydur.
cr.ydpmhfydyfrydLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdfrxdoelj dUmyfeqydrdxeqkydmydur.
.fj dXjpm.jdum.fjxdyedlrvjdfjz.jcidmpyjzj.ymph,d_temcàdyeqy_!d.e
.fjdfrxdoeevjxdqadyfm.dimpjdyrcjdrkeqydrd.yzrphjdcrxg dRmzmphdfjz
vpeucjxhjdeidJphcm.fdyee!dAzekrkcgdLep.mjqzdfrxdpjtjzd.aevjpdyfry
.jpyjpojdmpdJphcm.fdrydrcc,drpxdjtjpdmidfjdfrx,dmydazetjxdpeyfmph,
iezdLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcd.aevjdJphcm.fdajzijoycg,drpxdhjpjzrccgdq.jx
yfrydcrphqrhjdufjpdyrcvmphdyedL drpxdLrxrljdZjprqcx d"Geqd.jj,
L dNrov,dyfjd.epdeidLep.mjqz,dur.dq.qrccgdfjzj,drpxdfjd.aevjdyfj
Izjpofdtjzgdkrxcg "

Yfjdlrhm.yzryjdxmxdpeydmp.m.y dMp.yjrxdfjdmpwqmzjxdrkeqydyfj
ofrqiijqz,drpxdcjrzpjxdyfrydepcgdgj.yjzxrg,dL dZjprqcxdfrxdxjocrzjx
yfrydfjdur.dpeydcmvjcgdyedq.jdyfjdorz,drpxdyfrydLr.yjz.dlmhfydnq.y
r.dujccdyrvjdrdfecmxrg 

Rdajzacjbjxdizeupdur.dkjhmppmphdyedhryfjzdkjyujjpdAemzey'.djgj. 

"Ufrydm.dmy?"dMdufm.ajzjx 

Fjd.feevdfm.dfjrxdmlarymjpycg,drpxdr.vjxdrdwqj.ymep:

"Arzxep,dL dKjb,dkqydumyfeqydxeqkydL dZjprqcxdoeqcxdxzmtjdyfj
orzdfml.jci?"

Yfjdoellm..rzgdceevjxdetjzdrydIzrpçem.j,drpxdyfjdecxduelrpdzjacmjx
azelaycg:

"Pe,dLep.mjqzdxmxdpeydxzmtjdfml.jci "

Aemzey'.dizeupdxjjajpjx 

"Mdum.fdgeqdueqcxdyjccdljdufrydm.duezzgmphdgeq,"dMd.rmxdmlarymjpycg 

".jjdgeqdpey?dMpdfm.dcjyyjzdL dZjprqcxd.ajrv.deid.jpxmphdyfjdorz
iezdljdyedOrcrm. "

"Ajzfra.dfjdljrpydrdfmzjxdorz,"dMd.qhhj.yjx 

"Xeqkycj..dyfrydm.d.e dKqydufgdfmzjdrdorzdufjpdgeqdfrtjdepjdei
geqzdeup dUfgdofee.jdgj.yjzxrgdyed.jpxdrurgdyfjdofrqiijqzdep
rdfecmxrg--.qxxjpcg,drydrdleljpy'.dpeymoj?dUr.dmydyfrydiezd.elj
zjr.epdfjdurpyjxdfmldeqydeidyfjdurgdkjiezjdujdrzzmtjx?"




4

YfjdCjyyjzd.mhpjxd"Kjccr"


Izrpçem.jdfrxdcjiydyfjdzeel dYfjdlrhm.yzryjdur.dxzqllmph
yfeqhfyiqccgdepdyfjdyrkcj 

"L dKjb,"dfjd.rmxdrydcjphyf,d"fjzjdujdfrtjdxmzjoycgdoepicmoymph
yj.ymlepg dUfmofdrzjdujdyedkjcmjtj,dIzrpçem.jdezdXjpm.j?"

"Xjpm.j,"d.rmxdyfjdoellm..rzgdxjomxjxcg d"Mydur.d.fjdufedcjydyfj
tm.myezdmp dIzrpçem.jdm.decxdrpxdek.ympryj,drpxdfr.djtmxjpycg
yrvjpdrdxm.cmvjdyedLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc ddKj.mxj.,deqzdeupdvpeucjxhj
yjpx.dyed.feudyfrydZjprqcxdur.djpyrphcjxdumyfdrpeyfjzduelrp "

"_Ymjp.!_"dozmjxdL dFrqyjy d"UjdfrtjdiezheyyjpdyedmpiezldL dAemzey
eidyfry "dFjd.jrzofjxdrleph.ydyfjdarajz.depdyfjdyrkcj,drpxdimprccg
frpxjxdyfjdepjdfjdur.dmpd.jrzofdeidyedlgdizmjpx d"Yfm.dcjyyjz,
L dAemzey,dujdieqpxdmpdyfjdaeovjydeidyfjdxjrxdlrp'.detjzoery "

Aemzeydyeevdmydrpxdqpiecxjxdmy dMydur.d.eljufryduezpdrpxdozqlkcjx,
rpxdur.duzmyyjpdmpdJphcm.fdmpdrdzryfjzdqpiezljxdfrpx:

"_Lgdxjrzj.ydepj:_

"Ufgdfrtjdgeqdpeyduzmyyjpdiezd.edceph?dGeqdxedcetjdljd.ymcc,dxep'y
geq?dGeqzdcjyyjz.dcryjcgdfrtjdkjjpd.edxmiijzjpy,doecxdrpxd.yzrphj,
rpxdpeudyfm.dcephd.mcjpoj dMydlrvj.dljdrizrmx dMidgeqdujzjdyed.yea
cetmphdlj!dKqydyfry'.dmlae..mkcj--ufrydrd.mccgdvmxdMdrl--rcurg.
mlrhmpmphdyfmph.!dKqydmidgeqd_xmx_d.yeadcetmphdlj,dMdxep'ydvpeu
ufrydMd.feqcxdxe--vmccdlg.jcidajzfra.!dMdoeqcxp'ydcmtjdumyfeqydgeq 
.eljymlj.dMdirpogdrpeyfjzduelrpdm.doelmphdkjyujjpdq. dCjydfjzdceev
eqy,dyfry'.drcc--rpxdgeqdyee!ddM'xdr.d.eepdvmccdgeqdr.dcjydfjzdfrtj
geq!dMdljrpdmy 

"Kqydyfjzj,dM'lduzmymphdfmhf-iceupdpep.jp.j ddGeqdcetjdlj,drpxdM
cetjdgeq--gj.,dcetjdgeq,dcetjdgeq,dcetjdgeq!

"Geqzdeupdrxezmph

"KJCCR "

Yfjzjdur.dpedrxxzj..dezdxryj dAemzeydfrpxjxdmydkrovdumyfdrdhzrtj
iroj 

"Rpxdyfjdr..qlaymepdm.,dL dcjdnqhj--?"

Yfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. 

"Ektmeq.cgdL dZjprqcxdur.djpyrphcjxdumyfdyfm.dJphcm.fuelrp--Kjccr dFj
oelj.detjzdfjzj,dljjy.dLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc,drpxd.yrzy.drpdmpyzmhqjdumyf
fjz dFjdoeec.deiidyedyfjdeyfjz,drpxd.fjdmp.yrpycgd.q.ajoy.d.eljyfmph 
Yfm.dcjyyjzdoepyrmp.drdxm.ympoydyfzjry dL dAemzey,drydimz.yd.mhfydyfj
or.jd.jjljxd.mlacmomygdmy.jci dNjrceq.g!ddYfjdiroydyfrydL dZjprqcx
ur.d.yrkkjxdmpdyfjdkrovd.jjljxdyedaempydxm.ympoycgdyedmy.dkjmphdr
uelrp'.dozmlj "

Aemzeydpexxjx 

"Yfjd.yrkdmpdyfjdkrov,dgj.--kqydpeydyfjdhzrtj!dYfrydur.dcrkezmeq.
uezv,dfrzxduezv--peduelrpdxqhdyfrydhzrtj,dlep.mjqz dYfrydur.dr
lrp'.dxemph "

Yfjdoellm..rzgdjbocrmljxdjbomyjxcg:d"Gj.,dgj.,dgeqdrzjdzmhfy dUj
xmxdpeydyfmpvdeidyfry "

"R.dMd.rmx,"doepympqjxdL dFrqyjy,d"rydimz.yd.mhfydyfjdor.jd.jjljx
.mlacj,dkqydyfjdlr.vjxdljp,drpxdyfjdcjyyjzdgeqdzjojmtjxdizel
L dZjprqcxdoelacmoryjdlryyjz. ddFjzjdujd.jjldyedfrtjdrpdjpymzjcg
xmiijzjpyd.jydeidomzoql.yrpoj.,dumyfdpedzjcrymep.fmadkjyujjpdyfj
yue dR.dzjhrzx.dyfjdcjyyjzduzmyyjpdyedgeqz.jci,dxedgeqdyfmpvdmy
m.dae..mkcjdyfrydmydzjijzzjxdmpdrpgdurgdyedyfm.d'Kjccr,'drpxdfjz
yfzjry.?"

Aemzeyd.feevdfm.dfjrx 

"Frzxcg dRdlrpdcmvjdL dZjprqcx,dufedfr.dcjxdrpdrxtjpyqzeq.dcmijdmp
eqy-ei-yfj-urgdacroj.,dueqcxdpeydkjdcmvjcgdyedr.vdiezdazeyjoymep
rhrmp.ydrduelrp "

Yfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdpexxjxdfm.dfjrxdjlafrymorccg 

"Lgdtmjudjbroycg dYfjpdujdlq.ydceevdiezdyfjdjbacrprymepdeidyfj
cjyyjz--"

"Mpd.rpymrhe,"dimpm.fjxdyfjdoellm..rzg d"Md.frccdorkcjdumyfeqydxjcrg
yedyfjdaecmojdmpdyfrydomyg,dzjwqj.ymphdiqccdxjyrmc.deidyfjdlqzxjzjx
lrp'.dcmijdeqydyfjzj,dfm.dcetjdriirmz.,dfm.dkq.mpj..dyzrp.roymep.,
fm.dizmjpx.fma.,drpxdrpgdjplmymj.dfjdlrgdfrtjdmpoqzzjx dMydumcc
kjd.yzrphjdmi,driyjzdyfry,dujdxedpeydfecxdrdocqjdyedfm.dlg.yjzmeq.
lqzxjz "

Yfjdoellm..rzgdceevjxdzeqpxdiezdraazetrc 

"Jbojccjpy,"d.rmxdAemzeydraazjomrymtjcg 

"Fm.dumij,dyee,dlrgdkjdrkcjdyedhmtjdq.drdaempyjz,"drxxjxdyfj
lrhm.yzryj 

"Geqdfrtjdieqpxdpedeyfjzdcjyyjz.dizeldyfm.dKjccrdrleph.ydL dZjprqcx'.
jiijoy.?"dr.vjxdAemzey 

"Pe dEidoeqz.jdepjdeideqzdimz.ydazeojjxmph.dur.dyed.jrzofdyfzeqhf
fm.dazmtryjdarajz.dmpdyfjd.yqxg dUjdieqpxdpeyfmphdeidmpyjzj.y,
feujtjz dRccd.jjljxd.wqrzjdrpxdrketj-kerzx dYfjdepcgdyfmphdrydrcc
eqydeidyfjdezxmprzgdur.dfm.dumcc dFjzjdmydm. "

Aemzeydzrpdyfzeqhfdyfjdxeoqljpy 

".e dRdcjhrogdeidrdyfeq.rpxdaeqpx.dyedLz d.yepez--ufedm.dfj,
kgdyfjdurg?"

"L dZjprqcx'.d.jozjyrzg dFjdzjlrmpjxdmpdJphcrpx,dkqydur.detjzdfjzj
epojdezdyumojdiezdrdujjv-jpx "

"Rpxdjtjzgyfmphdjc.jdcjiydqpoepxmymeprccgdyedfm.dkjcetjxdumij,
Jcem.j d.mlacgdxzrupdqa,dkqydajzijoycgdcjhrc dUmypj..jxdkgdyfjdyue
.jztrpy.,dXjpm.jdrpxdIzrpçem.j ddPeyfmphd.edtjzgdqpq.qrcdrkeqy
yfry "dFjdfrpxjxdmydkrov 

"Ajzfra.,"dkjhrpdKjb,d"geqdxmxdpeydpeymoj--"

"Yfjdxryj?"dyumpvcjxdAemzey d"Kqydgj.,dMdpeymojxdmy ddRdiezypmhfy
rhe dAe..mkcgdmydlrzv.dfm.dimz.ydmpymlrymepdeidxrphjz dLrpgdzmof
ljpdxmjdmpyj.yryjdyfzeqhfdpjtjzdoep.mxjzmphdyfjdcmvjcmfeexdeidyfjmz
xjlm.j dKqydmydm.dxrphjzeq.dyedxzrudoepocq.mep.dazjlryqzjcg dMy
aempy.,dfeujtjz,dyedfm.dfrtmphdrdzjrcdcmvmphdrpxdiepxpj..diezdfm.
umij,dmpd.amyjdeidfm.drlezeq.dmpyzmhqj. "

"Gj.,"d.rmxdL dFrqyjydxeqkyiqccg d"Kqydmydm.dae..mkcgdrdcmyycj
qpirmzdepdfm.d.ep,d.mpojdmydcjrtj.dfmldjpymzjcgdxjajpxjpydepdfm.
leyfjz dMid.fjdujzjdyedlrzzgdrhrmp,drpxdfjzd.joepxdfq.krpxdekyrmpjx
rpdr.ojpxrpogdetjzdfjz,dyfm.dkegdlmhfydpjtjzdyeqofdrdajppgdeidfm.
iryfjz'.dlepjg "

Aemzeyd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. 

"Lrpdm.drdtrmpdrpmlrc dL dZjprqcxdimhqzjxdyedfml.jci,dumyfeqydxeqky,
yfrydfm.dumxeudueqcxdpjtjzdlrzzgdrhrmp dR.dyedyfjd.ep,dmydlrgdfrtj
kjjpdrdum.jdazjorqymepdyedcjrtjdyfjdlepjgdmpdfm.dleyfjz'.dfrpx. 
Yfjd.ep.deidzmofdljpdrzjdazetjzkmrccgdumcx "

"Mydlrgdkjdr.dgeqd.rg dPeu,dL dAemzey,dgeqdueqcxdumyfeqydxeqky
cmvjdyedtm.mydyfjd.ojpjdeidyfjdozmlj dMdrld.ezzgdyfrydyfjdkexgdfr.
kjjpdzjletjx,dkqydeidoeqz.jdafeyehzraf.dfrtjdkjjpdyrvjpdizeldjtjzg
oepojmtrkcjdrphcj,drpxdumccdkjdrydgeqzdxm.ae.rcdr.d.eepdr.dyfjg
rzjdrtrmcrkcj "

"Mdyfrpvdgeq,dlep.mjqz,diezdrccdgeqzdoeqzyj.g "

Yfjdoellm..rzgdze.j 

"Oeljdumyfdlj,dlep.mjqz. "

Fjdeajpjxdyfjdxeez,drpxdkeujxdojzjlepmeq.cgdyedAemzeydyedazjojxj
fml dAemzey,dumyfdjwqrcdaecmyjpj..,dxzjudkrovdrpxdkeujxdyedyfj
oellm..rzg 

"Lep.mjqz "

"Lep.mjqz "

Rydcr.ydyfjgdheydeqydmpyedyfjdfrcc 

"Yfrydzeeldyfjzj,dmydm.dyfjd.yqxg,d_fjmp_?"dr.vjxdAemzeyd.qxxjpcg,
pexxmphdyeurzx.dyfjdxeezdeaae.myj 

"Gj. dGeqdueqcxdcmvjdyed.jjdmy?"dFjdyfzjudyfjdxeezdeajpdr.dfjd.aevj,
rpxdujdjpyjzjx 

YfjdzeeldufmofdL dZjprqcxdfrxdofe.jpdiezdfm.deupdarzymoqcrz
q.jdur.d.lrcc,dkqydiqzpm.fjxdumyfdhzjrydyr.yjdrpxdoeliezy dR
kq.mpj..cmvjduzmymphdxj.v,dumyfdlrpgdamhjepdfecj.,d.yeexdmpdyfj
umpxeu dYuedcrzhjdcjryfjz-oetjzjxdrzlofrmz.dirojxdyfjdimzjacroj,
rpxdkjyujjpdyfjldur.drdzeqpxdyrkcjdoetjzjxdumyfdyfjdcryj.ydkeev.
rpxdlrhrsmpj. dKeev.fjctj.dcmpjxdyuedeidyfjdurcc.,drpxdrydyfjdjpx
eidyfjdzeeldeaae.myjdyfjdumpxeudyfjzjdur.drdfrpx.eljdervd.mxjkerzx
umyfdrdyrpyrcq.depdyea dYfjdoqzyrmp.drpxd_aezymèzj_dujzjdeidrd.eiy
xqccdhzjjp,drpxdyfjdorzajydlryofjxdyfjldmpdyepj 

Aemzeyd.yeexdrdleljpydyrcvmphdmpdyfjdzeel,dyfjpdfjd.yjaajxdiezurzx,
ar..jxdfm.dfrpxdcmhfycgdetjzdyfjdkrov.deidyfjdcjryfjzdofrmz.,damovjx
qadrdlrhrsmpjdizeldyfjdyrkcj,drpxdxzjudrdimphjzdhmphjzcgdetjzdyfj
.qzirojdeidyfjdervd.mxjkerzx dFm.dirojdjbazj..jxdoelacjyjdraazetrc 

"Pedxq.y?"dMdr.vjx,dumyfdrd.lmcj 

Fjdkjrljxdepdlj,draazjomrymtjdeidlgdvpeucjxhjdeidfm.dajoqcmrzmymj. 

"Peydrdarzymocj,d_lepdrlm_!dRpxdiezdepoj,dajzfra.,dmydm.drdamyg "

Fm.d.frza,dkmzxcmvjdjgj.dxrzyjxdfjzjdrpxdyfjzj 

"Rf!"dfjdzjlrzvjxd.qxxjpcg,dumyfdrpdmpyeprymepdeidzjcmji d"Yfj
fjrzyf-zqhdm.dozeevjx,"drpxdfjdkjpydxeupdyed.yzrmhfyjpdmy 

.qxxjpcgdfjdqyyjzjxdrpdjbocrlrymepdrpxdze.j dMpdfm.dfrpxdfjdfjcx
rd.lrccdizrhljpydeidarajz 

"MpdIzrpoj,dr.dmpdJphcrpx,"dfjdzjlrzvjx,d"yfjdxelj.ymo.delmydye
.ujjadqpxjzdyfjdlry.!"

Kjbdyeevdyfjdizrhljpydizeldfml,drpxdMdorljdoce.jzdyedjbrlmpjdmy 

"Geqdzjoehpmsjdmy--jf,dFr.ymph.?"

Md.feevdlgdfjrx,daqsscjx--rpxdgjydyfrydarzymoqcrzd.frxjdeidampv
arajzdur.dtjzgdirlmcmrz 

Yfjdoellm..rzg'.dljpyrcdazeoj..j.dujzjdwqmovjzdyfrpdlmpj 

"Rdizrhljpydeidrdofjwqj,"dfjdjbocrmljx 

Yfjdamjojdeidarajzdur.dzeqhfcgdrkeqydyuedmpofj.d.wqrzj dEpdmydur.
uzmyyjpdmpdmpvdyfjduezxd"Xqtjjp "

"_Kmjp_,"d.rmxdKjb d"Yfm.dofjwqjdur.dargrkcjdye,dezdxzrupdkg,
epjdprljxdXqtjjp "

"Yfjdiezljz,dMdirpog,"d.rmxdAemzey,d"iez,dmidMdrldpeydlm.yrvjp,
yfjdfrpxuzmymphdm.dyfrydeidL dZjprqcx "

Yfrydur.d.eepdj.yrkcm.fjx,dkgdoelarzmphdmydumyfdrdljlezrpxqldizel
yfjdxj.v 

"Xjrzdlj,"dlqzlqzjxdyfjdoellm..rzg,dumyfdrdozj.yirccjpdrmz,
"MdzjrccgdorppeydmlrhmpjdfeudMdorljdyedetjzceevdyfm. "

Aemzeydcrqhfjx 

"Yfjdlezrcdeidyfrydm.,drcurg.dceevdqpxjzdyfjdlry.!ddLgdizmjpx
Fr.ymph.dfjzjdumccdyjccdgeqdyfrydrpgyfmphdmpdyfjdcjr.ydozeevjxdm.dr
yezljpydyedlj dR.d.eepdr.dMd.rudyfrydyfjdfjrzyf-zqhdur.deqydeidyfj
.yzrmhfy,dMd.rmxdyedlg.jci:d'_Ymjp.!_dYfjdcjhdeidyfjdofrmzdorqhfy
mydmpdkjmphdaq.fjxdkrov dAe..mkcgdyfjzjdlrgdkjd.eljyfmphdkjpjryf
mydufmofdyfjdheexdIzrpçem.jdetjzceevjx '"

"Izrpçem.j?"

"EzdXjpm.j,dezdCéepmj dUfejtjzdxmxdyfm.dzeel d.mpojdyfjzjdm.dpe
xq.y,dyfjdzeeld_lq.y_dfrtjdkjjpdxepjdyfm.dlezpmph dMdzjoep.yzqoy
yfjdmpomxjpydcmvjdyfm. dGj.yjzxrg,dae..mkcgdcr.ydpmhfy,dL dZjprqcx
xzjudrdofjwqjdyedyfjdezxjzdeid.eljdepjdprljxdXqtjjp dRiyjzurzx.dmy
ur.dyezpdqa,drpxd.oryyjzjxdepdyfjdiceez dYfm.dlezpmph--"dKqydL dKjb
ur.drczjrxgdaqccmphdmlarymjpycgdrydyfjdkjcc 

Izrpçem.jdrp.ujzjxdmy dGj.,dyfjzjdfrxdkjjpdrdceydeidamjoj.dei
arajzdepdyfjdiceez dUfrydfrxd.fjdxepjdumyfdyfjl?dAqydyfjldmpdyfj
vmyofjpd.yetjdeidoeqz.j!dUfrydjc.j?

Umyfdrdhj.yqzjdeidxj.armz,dKjbdxm.lm..jxdfjz dYfjp,dfm.diroj
cmhfyjpmph,dfjdzrpdyedyfjdxj.v dMpdrdlmpqyjdfjdur.dfqpymphdyfzeqhf
yfjdxjrxdlrp'.dofjwqjdkeev dYfjpdfjdzjajryjxdfm.diezljzdhj.yqzj dYfj
cr.ydoeqpyjziemcdur.dkcrpv 

"Oeqzrhj!"dozmjxdAemzey,docraamphdfmldepdyfjdkrov dd"Umyfeqydxeqky,
LrxrljdZjprqcxdumccdkjdrkcjdyedyjccdq.drccdrkeqydyfm.dlg.yjzmeq.
ajz.epdprljxdXqtjjp "

Yfjdoellm..rzg'.dirojdocjrzjx d"Yfrydm.dyzqj dCjydq.dazeojjx "

R.dujdyqzpjxdyedcjrtjdyfjdzeel,dAemzeydzjlrzvjxdor.qrccg:d"Mydur.
fjzjdyfrydL dZjprqcxdzjojmtjxdfm.dhqj.ydcr.ydpmhfy,djf?"

"Mydur.--kqydfeudxmxdgeqdvpeu?"

"Kgd_yfm._ dMdieqpxdmydepdyfjdkrovdeidyfjdcjryfjzdofrmz "

Rpxdfjdfjcxdqadkjyujjpdfm.dimphjzdrpxdyfqlkdrdcephdkcrovdfrmz--r
uelrp'.dfrmz!

L dKjbdyeevdq.deqydkgdyfjdkrovdeidyfjdfeq.jdyedufjzjdyfjzjdur.dr
.lrccd.fjxdcjrpmphdrhrmp.ydyfjdfeq.j dFjdazexqojxdrdvjgdizeldfm.
aeovjydrpxdqpceovjxdmy 

"Yfjdkexgdm.dfjzj dUjdletjxdmydizeldyfjd.ojpjdeidyfjdozmljdnq.y
kjiezjdgeqdrzzmtjx,dr.dyfjdafeyehzrafjz.dfrxdxepjdumyfdmy "

Fjdeajpjxdyfjdxeezdrpxdujdar..jxdmp dYfjdlqzxjzjxdlrpdcrgdepdyfj
hzeqpx,dumyfdrd.fjjydetjzdfml dL dKjbdxjbyjzeq.cgdufmaajxdeiidyfj
oetjzmph dZjprqcxdur.drdlrpdeidljxmqldfjmhfy,d.cjpxjzdrpxdcmyfjdmp
imhqzj dFjdceevjxdrkeqydimiygdgjrz.deidrhj,drpxdfm.dxrzvdfrmzdur.
acjpymiqccgd.yzjrvjxdumyfdhzjg dFjdur.docjrpd.frtjpdumyfdrdceph
yfmpdpe.j,drpxdjgj.d.jydzryfjzdoce.jdyehjyfjz,drpxdfm.d.vmpdur.
xjjacgdkzepsjx,dr.dyfrydeidrdlrpdufedfrxd.ajpydle.ydeidfm.dcmij
kjpjryfdyzeamorcd.vmj. dFm.dcma.dujzjdxzrupdkrovdizeldfm.dyjjyf
rpxdrpdjbazj..mepdeidrk.ecqyjdrlrsjljpydrpxdyjzzezdur.d.yrlajxdep
yfjdcmtmxdijryqzj. 

"Epjdorpd.jjdkgdfm.dirojdyfrydfjdur.d.yrkkjxdmpdyfjdkrov,"dzjlrzvjx
Aemzey 

Tjzgdhjpycg,dfjdyqzpjxdyfjdxjrxdlrpdetjz dYfjzj,dkjyujjpdyfj
.feqcxjz-kcrxj.,d.yrmpmphdyfjdcmhfydirupdetjzoery,dur.drdzeqpxdxrzv
aryof dMpdyfjdlmxxcjdeidmydyfjzjdur.drd.cmydmpdyfjdoceyf dAemzey
jbrlmpjxdmydprzzeucg 

"Frtjdgeqdrpgdmxjrdumyfdufrydujraepdyfjdozmljdur.doellmyyjx?"

"Mydur.dcjiydmpdyfjdueqpx "dYfjdoellm..rzgdzjrofjxdxeupdrdcrzhj
hcr..dnrz dMpdmydur.drd.lrccdeknjoydyfrydceevjxdyedljdlezjdcmvj
rdarajz-vpmijdyfrpdrpgyfmphdjc.j ddMydfrxdrdkcrovdfrpxcj,drpx
rdprzzeud.fmpmphdkcrxj dYfjdufecjdyfmphdur.dpeydlezjdyfrpdyjp
mpofj.dceph dAemzeydyj.yjxdyfjdxm.oeceqzjxdaempydhmphjzcgdumyfdfm.
imphjzdyma 

"_Lrdiem!_dkqydmydm.d.frza!dRdpmojdjr.gdcmyycjdyeecdiezdlqzxjz!"

"Qpiezyqpryjcg,dujdoeqcxdimpxdpedyzrojdeidimphjzazmpy.depdmy,"
zjlrzvjxdKjbdzjhzjyiqccg d"Yfjdlqzxjzjzdlq.ydfrtjduezpdhcetj. "

"Eidoeqz.jdfjdxmx,"d.rmxdAemzeydoepyjlayqeq.cg dd"Jtjpdmpd.rpymrhe
yfjgdvpeudjpeqhfdiezdyfry dYfjdtjzmj.ydrlryjqzdeidrpdJphcm.fdLjj.
vpeu.dmy--yfrpv.dyedyfjdaqkcmomygdyfjdKjzymccepd.g.yjldfr.dkjjp
hmtjpdmpdyfjdAzj.. dRccdyfjd.rlj,dmydmpyjzj.y.dljdtjzgdlqofdyfry
yfjzjdujzjdpedimphjz-azmpy. dMydm.d.edrlrsmphcgd.mlacjdyedcjrtjdyfj
imphjz-azmpy.deid.eljdepjdjc.j!dRpxdyfjpdyfjdaecmojdrzjdfraag "dFj
.feevdfm.dfjrx d"Mdtjzgdlqofdijrzdeqzdozmlmprcdm.dpeydrdlrpdei
ljyfex--jmyfjzdyfrydezdfjdur.dazj..jxdiezdymlj dKqydujd.frccd.jj "

Fjdcjydyfjdkexgdirccdkrovdmpyedmy.dezmhmprcdae.mymep 

"Fjduezjdepcgdqpxjzoceyfj.dqpxjzdfm.detjzoery,dMd.jj,"dfjdzjlrzvjx 

"Gj.,dyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdyfmpv.dyfrydm.dzryfjzdrdoqzmeq.
aempy "

Rydyfm.dlmpqyjdyfjzjdur.drdyradepdyfjdxeezdufmofdKjbdfrxdoce.jxdriyjz
fml dFjd.yzexjdiezurzxdrpxdeajpjxdmy ddIzrpçem.jdur.dyfjzj d.fj
jpxjrteqzjxdyedajjadmpdumyfdhfeqcm.fdoqzme.myg 

"Ujcc,dufrydm.dmy?"dxjlrpxjxdKjbdmlarymjpycg 

"Lrxrlj d.fjd.jpx.drdlj..rhjdyfryd.fjdm.dlqofdzjoetjzjx,drpxdm.
wqmyjdzjrxgdyedzjojmtjdyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj "

"Heex,"d.rmxdL dKjbdkzm.vcg d"YjccdL dFrqyjydrpxd.rgdyfrydujdumcc
oeljdrydepoj "

Aemzeydcmphjzjxdrdleljpy,dceevmphdkrovdyeurzx.dyfjdkexg dMdyfeqhfy
iezdrdleljpydyfrydfjdur.dhemphdyedrae.yzeafmsjdmy,dyedxjocrzj
rceqxdfm.dxjyjzlmprymepdpjtjzdyedzj.ydymccdfjdfrxdxm.oetjzjxdyfj
lqzxjzjz dKqydufjpdfjd.aevj,dmydur.dyrljcgdrpxdruvurzxcg,drpxdfm.
oelljpydur.dcqxmozeq.cgdmpraazeazmryjdyedyfjd.ecjlpmygdeidyfjdleljpy 

"Fjduezjdfm.detjzoerydtjzgdceph,"dfjd.rmxdoep.yzrmpjxcg 




5

Lz. dZjprqcx'.d.yezg


UjdieqpxdL dFrqyjydrurmymphdq.dmpdyfjdfrcc,drpxdujdrccdazeojjxjx
qa.yrmz.dyehjyfjz,dIzrpçem.jdlrzofmphdrfjrxdyed.feudq.dyfj
urg dAemzeydujpydqadmpdrdsmhsrhdir.fmepdufmofdaqsscjxdlj,dqpymcdfj
ufm.ajzjxdumyfdrdhzmlroj:

"Peduepxjzdyfjd.jztrpy.dfjrzxdL dZjprqcxdleqpymphdyfjd.yrmz.;
peydrdkerzxdeidyfjldkqydozjrv.dimydyedurvjdyfjdxjrx!"

Rydyfjdfjrxdeidyfjd.yrmzor.j,drd.lrccdar..rhjdkzrpofjxdeii 

"Yfjd.jztrpy.'dwqrzyjz.,"djbacrmpjxdKjb 

Ujdoepympqjxdrcephdrdoezzmxez,drpxdIzrpçem.jdyraajxdepdyfjdcr.y
xeezdyedyfjdzmhfydeidmy 

Rdirmpydtemojdkrxjdq.djpyjz,drpxdujdar..jxdmpyedrdcrzhjd.qppg
rarzyljpydceevmphdeqydyeurzx.dyfjd.jr,dufmofd.feujxdkcqjdrpx
.arzvcmphdrkeqydrdwqrzyjzdeidrdlmcjdxm.yrpy 

Epdrdoeqof,dazeaajxdqadumyfdoq.fmep.,drpxdryyjpxjxdkgdXz dXqzrpx,
crgdrdyrcc,d.yzmvmph-ceevmphduelrp d.fjdur.dlmxxcj-rhjx,drpxdfjz
epojdxrzvdfrmzdur.dpeudrcle.ydjpymzjcgd.mctjzjx,dkqydyfjdmpyjp.j
tmyrcmygdrpxd.yzjphyfdeidfjzdajz.eprcmygdueqcxdfrtjdlrxjdmy.jci
ijcydrpgufjzj dGeqdvpjudrydepojdyfrydgeqdujzjdmpdyfjdazj.jpojdei
ufrydyfjdIzjpofdorccd"_qpjdlrmyzj..jdijllj_ "

.fjdhzjjyjxdq.dumyfdrdxmhpmimjxdmpocmprymepdeidyfjdfjrx 

"Azrgdkjd.jryjx,dlep.mjqz. "

Ujdyeevdofrmz.,drpxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj'.docjzvdj.yrkcm.fjxdfml.jcidry
rdzeqpxdyrkcj 

"Mdfeaj,dlrxrlj,"dkjhrpdL dFrqyjy,d"yfrydmydumccdpeydxm.yzj..dgeq
qpxqcgdyedzjcryjdyedq.dufrydeooqzzjxdcr.ydpmhfy?"

"Peydrydrcc,dlep.mjqz dMdvpeudyfjdtrcqjdeidymlj,dmidyfj.jd.oeqpxzjccg
r..r..mp.drzjdyedkjdorqhfydrpxdaqpm.fjx "

"Tjzgdujcc,dlrxrlj dMydumccdirymhqjdgeqdcj..,dMdyfmpv,dmidMdr.vdgeq
wqj.ymep.drpxdgeqdoepimpjdgeqz.jcidyedrp.ujzmphdyfjl dRydufrydymlj
xmxdgeqdhedyedkjxdcr.ydpmhfy?"

"Rydfrci-ar.ydpmpj,dlep.mjqz dMdur.dymzjx "

"Rpxdgeqzdfq.krpx?"

"Rkeqydrpdfeqzdcryjz,dMdirpog "

"Xmxdfjd.jjldxm.yqzkjx--qa.jydmpdrpgdurg?"

"Pe,dpeydlezjdyfrpdq.qrc "

"Ufrydfraajpjxdyfjp?"

"Ujd.cjay dMdur.drurvjpjxdkgdrdfrpxdkjmphdazj..jxdetjzdlgdleqyf dM
yzmjxdyed.ozjrldeqy,dkqydyfjdfrpxdazjtjpyjxdlj dYfjzjdujzjdyuedljp
mpdyfjdzeel dYfjgdujzjdkeyfdlr.vjx "

"Orpdgeqdxj.ozmkjdyfjldrydrcc,dlrxrlj?"

"Epjdur.dtjzgdyrcc,drpxdfrxdrdcephdkcrovdkjrzx,dyfjdeyfjzdur.d.fezy
rpxd.yeqy dFm.dkjrzxdur.dzjxxm.f dYfjgdkeyfduezjdfry.daqccjxdxeup
etjzdyfjmzdjgj. "

"F'l,"d.rmxdyfjdlrhm.yzryjdyfeqhfyiqccg,d"yeedlqofdkjrzx,dMdijrz "

"Geqdljrpdyfjgdujzjdirc.j?"

"Gj.,dlrxrlj dKqydoepympqjdgeqzd.yezg "

"Mydur.dyfjd.fezydlrpdufedur.dfecxmphdlj dFjdiezojxdrdhrhdmpyedlg
leqyf,drpxdyfjpdkeqpxdljdumyfdzeajdfrpxdrpxdieey dYfjdeyfjzdlrp
ur.d.yrpxmphdetjzdlgdfq.krpx dFjdfrxdorqhfydqadlgdcmyycjdxrhhjz
arajz-vpmijdizeldyfjdxzj..mph-yrkcjdrpxdur.dfecxmphdmydumyfdyfj
aempydnq.ydetjzdfm.dfjrzy dUfjpdyfjd.fezydlrpdfrxdimpm.fjxdumyf
lj,dfjdnempjxdyfjdeyfjz,drpxdyfjgdiezojxdlgdfq.krpxdyedhjydqa
rpxdrooelarpgdyfjldmpyedyfjdxzj..mph-zeeldpjbydxeez dMdur.dpjrzcg
irmpymphdumyfdyjzzez,dpjtjzyfjcj..dMdcm.yjpjxdxj.ajzryjcg 

"Yfjgdujzjd.ajrvmphdmpdyeedceudrdyepjdiezdljdyedfjrzdufrydyfjg
.rmx dKqydMdzjoehpmsjxdyfjdcrphqrhj,drdkr.yrzxd.arpm.fd.qof
r.dm.d.aevjpdmpd.eljdarzy.deid.eqyfdRljzmor ddYfjgd.jjljxdyedkj
xjlrpxmphd.eljyfmphdizeldlgdfq.krpx,drpxdazj.jpycgdyfjgdhzjudrphzg,
rpxdyfjmzdtemoj.dze.jdrdcmyycj dMdyfmpvdyfjdyrccdlrpdur.d.ajrvmph 
'Geqdvpeudufrydujdurpy!'dfjd.rmx d'_Yfjd.jozjy!_dUfjzjdm.dmy?'dMdxe
peydvpeudufrydlgdfq.krpxdrp.ujzjx,dkqydyfjdeyfjzdzjacmjxdimjzojcg:
'Geqdcmj!dUjdvpeudgeqdfrtjdmy dUfjzjdrzjdgeqzdvjg.?'

"YfjpdMdfjrzxd.eqpx.deidxzrujz.dkjmphdaqccjxdeqy ddYfjzjdm.drd.rij
epdyfjdurccdeidlgdfq.krpx'.dxzj..mph-zeeldmpdufmofdfjdrcurg.dvjja.dr
irmzcgdcrzhjdrleqpydeidzjrxgdlepjg dCéepmjdyjcc.dljdyfm.dfr.dkjjp
zmicjxdrpxdyfjdlepjgdyrvjp,dkqydjtmxjpycgdufrydyfjgdujzjdceevmph
iezdur.dpeydyfjzj,diezdazj.jpycgdMdfjrzxdyfjdyrccdlrp,dumyfdrpderyf,
oellrpxdlgdfq.krpxdyedxzj..dfml.jci dd.eepdriyjzdyfry,dMdyfmpvd.elj
pem.jdmpdyfjdfeq.jdlq.ydfrtjdxm.yqzkjxdyfjl,diezdyfjgdfq.ycjxdlg
fq.krpxdeqydmpyedlgdzeeldepcgdfrcidxzj..jx "

"_Arzxep_,"dmpyjzzqayjxdAemzey,d"kqydm.dyfjzjdyfjpdpedeyfjzdjhzj..
izeldyfjdxzj..mph-zeel?"

"Pe,dlep.mjqz,dyfjzjdm.depcgdyfjdoellqpmorymphdxeezdmpyedlg
zeel dYfjgdfqzzmjxdlgdfq.krpxdyfzeqhf,dyfjd.fezydlrpdmpdizepy,drpx
yfjdyrccdlrpdkjfmpxdfmldumyfdyfjdxrhhjzd.ymccdmpdfm.dfrpx dArqc
yzmjxdyedkzjrvdrurgdyedoeljdyedlj dMd.rudfm.drhepmsjxdjgj. dFj
yqzpjxdyedfm.dorayez. d'Mdlq.yd.ajrvdyedfjz,'dfjd.rmx dYfjp,doelmph
yedyfjd.mxjdeidyfjdkjx,d'Mydm.drccdzmhfy,dJcem.j,'dfjd.rmx d'Xe
peydkjdrizrmx dMd.frccdzjyqzpdkjiezjdlezpmph 'dKqy,drcyfeqhfdfj
yzmjxdyedlrvjdfm.dtemojdoepimxjpy,dMdoeqcxd.jjdyfjdyjzzezdmpdfm.
jgj. dYfjpdyfjgdfq.ycjxdfmldeqydeidyfjdxeez,dyfjdyrccdlrpd.rgmph:
'Epjd.eqpx--rpxdgeqdrzjdrdxjrxdlrp,dzjljlkjz '

"Riyjzdyfry,"doepympqjxdLz. dZjprqcx,d"Mdlq.ydfrtjdirmpyjx dYfj
pjbydyfmphdMdzjoeccjoydm.dCéepmjdzqkkmphdlgduzm.y.,drpxdhmtmph
ljdkzrpxg "

"LrxrljdZjprqcx,"d.rmxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj,d"frxdgeqdrpgdmxjrdufrydmy
ur.diezdufmofdyfjdr..r..mp.dujzjd.jrzofmph?"

"Pepjdufryjtjz,dlep.mjqz "

"Frxdgeqdrpgdvpeucjxhjdyfrydgeqzdfq.krpxdijrzjxd.eljyfmph?"

"Gj. dMdfrxd.jjpdyfjdofrphjdmpdfml "

"Feudcephdrhedur.dyfry?"

Lz. dZjprqcxdzjicjoyjx 

"Yjpdxrg.dajzfra. "

"Peydcephjz?"

"Ae..mkcg dMdepcgdpeymojxdmydyfjp "

"Xmxdgeqdwqj.ymepdgeqzdfq.krpxdrydrccdr.dyedyfjdorq.j?"

"Epoj dFjdaqydljdeiidjtr.mtjcg dPjtjzyfjcj..,dMdur.doeptmpojxdyfry
fjdur.d.qiijzmphd.eljdyjzzmkcjdrpbmjyg ddFeujtjz,d.mpojdfjdjtmxjpycg
um.fjxdyedoepojrcdyfjdiroydizeldlj,dMdyzmjxdyedazjyjpxdyfrydMdfrx
peymojxdpeyfmph "

"Ujzjdgeqdrurzjdyfrydfjdfrxdorccjxdmpdyfjd.jztmoj.deidrdxjyjoymtj?"

"Rdxjyjoymtj?"djbocrmljxdLz. dZjprqcx,dtjzgdlqofd.qzazm.jx 

"Gj.,dyfm.dhjpycjlrp--L dFjzoqcjdAemzey "dAemzeydkeujx d"Fjdrzzmtjx
yexrgdmpdzj.aep.jdyedrd.qllep.dizeldgeqzdfq.krpx "dRpxdyrvmph
yfjdcjyyjzduzmyyjpdkgdL dZjprqcxdizeldfm.daeovjydfjdfrpxjxdmydye
yfjdcrxg 

.fjdzjrxdmydumyfdraarzjpycgdhjpqmpjdr.yepm.fljpy 

"Mdfrxdpedmxjrdeidyfm. dJtmxjpycgdfjdur.diqccgdoehpmsrpydeidyfj
xrphjz "

"Peu,dlrxrlj,dMdumccdkjhdeidgeqdyedkjdizrpvdumyfdlj dM.dyfjzjdrpg
mpomxjpydmpdgeqzdfq.krpx'.dar.ydcmijdmpd.eqyfdRljzmordufmofdlmhfy
yfzeudcmhfydepdfm.dlqzxjz?"

Lz. dZjprqcxdzjicjoyjxdxjjacg,dkqydrydcr.yd.feevdfjzdfjrx 

"Mdorpdyfmpvdeidpepj dOjzyrmpcgdlgdfq.krpxdfrxdlrpgdjpjlmj.,dajeacj
fjdfrxdheydyfjdkjyyjzdeidmpd.eljdurgdezdrpeyfjz,dkqydMdorpdyfmpvdei
pedepjdxm.ympoymtjdor.j dMdxedpeyd.rgdyfjzjdm.dped.qofdmpomxjpy--epcg
yfrydMdrldpeydrurzjdeidmy "

Yfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjd.yzevjxdfm.dkjrzxdxm.oep.ecryjcg 

"Rpxdgeqdorpdimbdyfjdymljdeidyfm.deqyzrhj?"

"Gj.,dMdxm.ympoycgdzjljlkjzdfjrzmphdyfjdoceovdepdyfjdlrpyjcamjoj
.yzmvjdyue "d.fjdpexxjxdyeurzx.drpdjmhfy-xrgdyzrtjccmphdoceovdmp
rdcjryfjzdor.jdufmofd.yeexdmpdyfjdojpyzjdeidyfjdofmlpjg-amjoj 

Aemzeydze.jdizeldfm.d.jry,d.ozqympmsjxdyfjdoceovdorzjiqccg,drpx
pexxjx,d.rym.imjx 

"Rpxdfjzjdyee,"djbocrmljxdL dKjb,d"m.drduzm.yduryof,dvpeovjxdeii
yfjdxzj..mph-yrkcjdkgdyfjdr..r..mp.,dumyfeqydxeqky,drpxd.lr.fjxdye
ryel. dCmyycjdxmxdyfjgdvpeudmydueqcxdyj.ymigdrhrmp.ydyfjl "

Hjpycgdfjdamovjxdrurgdyfjdizrhljpy.deidkzevjpdhcr.. dd.qxxjpcgdfm.
irojdofrphjxdyedepjdeidqyyjzd.yqajiroymep 

"_LepdXmjq!_"dfjdjnroqcryjx 

"Ufrydm.dmy?"

"Yfjdfrpx.deidyfjduryofdaempydyed.jtjpde'oceov!"

"Ufry?"dozmjxdyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj,dr.yepm.fjx 

KqydAemzey,dxjiydr.djtjz,dyeevdyfjdkzevjpdyzmpvjydizeldyfjd.yrzycjx
oellm..rzg,drpxdfjcxdmydyedfm.djrz dYfjpdfjd.lmcjx 

"Yfjdhcr..dm.dkzevjp,dgj.,dkqydyfjduryofdmy.jcidm.d.ymccdhemph "

Yfjdjbacrprymepdeidyfjdlg.yjzgdur.dhzjjyjxdumyfdrdzjcmjtjxd.lmcj dKqy
yfjdlrhm.yzryjdkjyfeqhfydfmldeidrpeyfjzdaempy 

"Kqyd.qzjcgdmydm.dpeyd.jtjpde'oceovdpeu?"

"Pe,"d.rmxdAemzeydhjpycg,d"mydm.drdijudlmpqyj.driyjzdimtj dAe..mkcg
yfjduryofdhrmp.,dm.dyfryd.e,dlrxrlj?"

Lz. dZjprqcxdur.dizeupmphdajzacjbjxcg 

"Mydxej.dhrmp,"d.fjdrxlmyyjx,d"kqydM'tjdpjtjzdvpeupdmydyedhrmp
wqmyjd.edlqofdr.dyfry "

Umyfdrdhj.yqzjdeidmlarymjpoj,dyfjdlrhm.yzryjdcjiydyfjdlryyjzdei
yfjduryofdrpxdazeojjxjxdumyfdfm.dmpyjzzehryezg 

"Lrxrlj,dyfjdizepydxeezdur.dieqpxdrnrz dMyd.jjl.drcle.ydojzyrmp
yfrydyfjdlqzxjzjz.djpyjzjxdyfrydurg,dgjydmydfr.dpeydkjjpdiezojxdry
rcc dOrpdgeqd.qhhj.ydrpgdjbacrprymep?"

"Ae..mkcgdlgdfq.krpxdujpydeqydiezdrd.yzeccdyfjdcr.ydyfmph,drpx
iezheydyedcryofdmydufjpdfjdorljdmp "

"M.dyfrydrdcmvjcgdyfmphdyedfraajp?"

"Tjzg dLgdfq.krpxdur.dyfjdle.ydrk.jpy-lmpxjxdeidljp "

Yfjzjdur.drd.cmhfydizeupdepdfjzdkzeudr.d.fjd.aevj,dr.dyfeqhfdyfm.
yzrmydmpdyfjdxjrxdlrp'.dofrzroyjzdfrxdrydymlj.dtjbjxdfjz 

"Yfjzjdm.depjdmpijzjpojdMdyfmpvdujdlmhfydxzru,"dzjlrzvjxdyfj
oellm..rzgd.qxxjpcg d".mpojdyfjdljpdmp.m.yjxdepdL dZjprqcxdxzj..mph
fml.jci,dmydceev.dr.dyfeqhfdyfjdacrojdyfjgdujzjdyrvmphdfmldye,
yfjdacrojdufjzjd'yfjd.jozjy'dur.doepojrcjx,dcrgd.eljdxm.yrpojdrurg "

Yfjdlrhm.yzryjdpexxjx 

"Gj.,dirz,drpxdgjydpeydyeedirz,d.mpojdfjd.aevjdeidkjmphdkrovdkg
lezpmph "

"Ufrydymlj.dxej.dyfjdcr.ydyzrmpdcjrtjdyfjd.yrymepdei
Ljzcmptmccj?"dr.vjxdAemzey 

"Jcjtjp-imiygdepjdurg,drpxd12:17dyfjdeyfjz,dkqydmydm.dlezjdazekrkcj
yfrydyfjgdfrxdrdleyezdurmymph "

"Eidoeqz.j,"drhzjjxdAemzey,dceevmphd.eljufrydozj.yirccjp 

"Mpxjjx,dyfrydlmhfydkjdepjdurgdeidyzromphdyfjl,"doepympqjxdyfj
lrhm.yzryj,dkzmhfyjpmph d"Rdleyezdoepyrmpmphdyuediezjmhpjz.dm.dwqmyj
cmvjcgdyedfrtjdkjjpdpeymojx ddYfrydm.drpdjbojccjpydaempy,dL dKjb "

Fjd.lmcjxdyedfml.jci,drpxdyfjp,dkjoelmphdhzrtjdepojdlezj,dfjd.rmx
yedLz. dZjprqcx:

"Yfjzjdm.drpeyfjzdwqj.ymep dXedgeqdvpeudrpgdepjdeidyfjdprljdei
'Xqtjjp'?"

"Xqtjjp?"dLz. dZjprqcxdzjajryjx,dyfeqhfyiqccg dd"Pe,diezdyfjdleljpy,
Mdorppeyd.rgdMdxe "

"Geqdfrtjdpjtjzdfjrzxdgeqzdfq.krpxdljpymepdrpgdepjdeidyfrydprlj?"

"Pjtjz "

"Xedgeqdvpeudrpgdepjdufe.jdOfzm.ymrpdprljdm.dKjccr?"

FjduryofjxdLz. dZjprqcxdprzzeucgdr.dfjd.aevj,d.jjvmphdyed.qzazm.j
rpgd.mhp.deidrphjzdezdoep.omeq.pj..,dkqyd.fjdljzjcgd.feevdfjzdfjrx
mpdwqmyjdrdpryqzrcdlrppjz ddFjdoepympqjxdfm.dwqj.ymep. 

"Rzjdgeqdrurzjdyfrydgeqzdfq.krpxdfrxdrdtm.myezdcr.ydpmhfy?"

Peudfjd.rudyfjdzjxdleqpyd.cmhfycgdmpdfjzdofjjv.,dkqyd.fjdzjacmjx
oelae.jxcg 

"Pe,dufedur.dyfry?"

"Rdcrxg "

"Mpxjjx?"

Kqydiezdyfjdleljpydyfjdlrhm.yzryjdur.doepyjpydyed.rgdpedlezj dMy
.jjljxdqpcmvjcgdyfrydLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdfrxdrpgdoeppjoymepdumyf
yfjdozmlj,drpxdfjdur.drpbmeq.dpeydyedqa.jydLz. dZjprqcxdlezjdyfrp
pjoj..rzg 

Fjdlrxjdrd.mhpdyedyfjdoellm..rzg,drpxdyfjdcryyjzdzjacmjxdumyfdr
pex dYfjpdzm.mph,dfjdujpydroze..dyfjdzeel,drpxdzjyqzpjxdumyfdyfj
hcr..dnrzdujdfrxd.jjpdmpdyfjdeqyfeq.jdmpdfm.dfrpx dIzeldyfm.,
fjdyeevdyfjdxrhhjz 

"Lrxrlj,"dfjd.rmxdhjpycg,d"xedgeqdzjoehpmsjdyfm.?"

.fjdhrtjdrdcmyycjdozg 

"Gj.,dyfrydm.dlgdcmyycjdxrhhjz "dYfjp--.fjd.rudyfjd.yrmpjxdaempy,
rpxd.fjdxzjudkrov,dfjzdjgj.dumxjpmphdumyfdfezzez d"M.dyfry--kceex?"

"Gj.,dlrxrlj dGeqzdfq.krpxdur.dvmccjxdumyfdyfm.dujraep "dFjdzjletjx
mydfr.ymcgdizeld.mhfy d"Geqdrzjdwqmyjd.qzjdrkeqydmy'.dkjmphdyfj
epjdyfrydur.depdgeqzdxzj..mph-yrkcjdcr.ydpmhfy?"

"Ef,dgj. dMydur.drdazj.jpydizeldlgd.ep dFjdur.dmpdyfjdRmzdIezoj
xqzmphdyfjdUrz dFjdhrtjdfm.drhjdr.decxjzdyfrpdmydur. "dYfjzjdur.
rdyeqofdeidyfjdazeqxdleyfjzdmpdfjzdtemoj d"Yfm.dur.dlrxjdizel
rd.yzjrlcmpjdrjzeacrpjdumzj,drpxdur.dhmtjpdyedljdkgdlgd.epdr.dr
.eqtjpmzdeidyfjdUrz "

"Md.jj,dlrxrlj dYfrydkzmph.dq.dyedrpeyfjzdlryyjz ddGeqzd.ep,
ufjzjdm.dfjdpeu?dMydm.dpjoj..rzgdyfrydfjd.feqcxdkjdyjcjhzrafjxdye
umyfeqydxjcrg "

"Nrov?dFjdm.depdfm.durgdyedKqjpe.dRgzj. "

"Ufry?"

"Gj. dLgdfq.krpxdyjcjhzrafjxdyedfmldgj.yjzxrg dFjdfrxd.jpydfmldep
kq.mpj..dyedArzm.,dkqydgj.yjzxrgdfjdxm.oetjzjxdyfrydmydueqcxdkj
pjoj..rzgdiezdfmldyedazeojjxdumyfeqydxjcrgdyed.eqyfdRljzmor dYfjzj
ur.drdkerydcjrtmphdOfjzkeqzhdiezdKqjpe.dRgzj.dcr.ydpmhfy,drpxdfj
umzjxdfmldyedoryofdmy "

"Frtjdgeqdrpgdvpeucjxhjdeidufrydyfjdkq.mpj..dmpdKqjpe.dRgzj.dur.?"

"Pe,dlep.mjqz,dMdvpeudpeyfmphdeidmy.dpryqzj,dkqydKqjpe.dRgzj.dm.
peydlgd.ep'.dimprcdxj.ymprymep dFjdur.dhemphdetjzcrpxdizeldyfjzj
yed.rpymrhe "

Rpx,dmpdqpm.ep,dyfjdlrhm.yzryjdrpxdyfjdoellm..rzgdjbocrmljx:

".rpymrhe!dRhrmpd.rpymrhe!"

Mydur.drydyfm.dleljpy,dufjpdujdujzjdrccd.yqppjxdkgdyfjdljpymepdei
yfryduezx,dyfrydAemzeydraazerofjxdLz. ddZjprqcx dFjdfrxdkjjpd.yrpxmph
kgdyfjdumpxeudcmvjdrdlrpdce.ydmpdrdxzjrl,drpxdMdxeqkydmidfjdfrxdiqccg
yrvjpdmpdufrydfrxdar..jx dFjdarq.jxdkgdyfjdcrxg'.d.mxjdumyfdrdkeu 

"_Arzxep_,dlrxrlj,dkqydlrgdMdjbrlmpjdgeqzduzm.y. "

Yfeqhfd.cmhfycgd.qzazm.jxdrydyfjdzjwqj.y,dLz. ddZjprqcxdfjcxdyfjl
eqydyedfml dZeqpxdjrofdeidyfjldur.drdozqjcdzjxdlrzvdufjzjdyfjdoezx.
frxdkmyyjpdmpyedyfjdicj.f dR.dfjdjbrlmpjxdyfjl,dMdirpomjxdyfrydr
leljpyrzgdicmovjzdeidjbomyjljpydMdfrxd.jjpdmpdfm.djgj.dxm.raajrzjx 

"Yfjgdlq.ydorq.jdgeqdhzjrydarmp,"dfjd.rmx,drpxdepojdlezjdfjdceevjx
aqsscjx 

Kqydyfjdlrhm.yzryjdur.d.ajrvmphdjbomyjxcg 

"GeqphdL dZjprqcxdlq.ydkjdoellqpmoryjxdumyfdrydepojdkgdumzjcj.. dMy
m.dtmyrcdyfrydujd.feqcxdvpeudrpgyfmphdfjdorpdyjccdq.drkeqydyfm.
yzmadyed.rpymrhe "dFjdfj.myryjx d"Mdfeajxdfjdlmhfydfrtjdkjjpdpjrz
rydfrpx,d.edyfrydujdoeqcxdfrtjd.rtjxdgeqdarmp,dlrxrlj "dFjdarq.jx 

"Geqdljrp,"d.fjd.rmxdmpdrdceudtemoj,d"yfjdmxjpymimorymepdeidlg
fq.krpx'.dkexg?"

Yfjdlrhm.yzryjdkeujxdfm.dfjrx 

"Mdrldrd.yzephduelrp,dlep.mjqz dMdorpdkjrzdrccdyfrydm.dzjwqmzjxdei
lj dMdrldzjrxg--peu "

"Ef,dyelezzeudumccdkjdwqmyjd.eepdjpeqhf,dMdr..qzjdgeq--"

"Mdazjijzdyedhjydmydetjz,"d.fjd.rmxdmpdrdceudyepj,drd.ar.ldeidarmp
oze..mphdfjzdiroj d"Midgeqdumccdkjd.edheexdr.dyedhmtjdljdgeqzdrzl,
Xeoyez?"

Yfjdxeoyezdfr.yjpjxdiezurzx,drdocervdur.dyfzeupdetjzdLz. dZjprqcx'.
.feqcxjz.,drpxdrd.ceudazeoj..mepdujpydxeupdyfjd.yrmz. dL dKjb
fqzzmjxdepdrfjrxdyedeajpdyfjdxeezdeidyfjd.fjx dMpdrdlmpqyjdez
yuedLz. dZjprqcxdraajrzjxdmpdyfjdxeezurg d.fjdur.dtjzgdarcj,
kqydzj.ecqyj ddKjfmpxdfjz,dL dFrqyjydur.docrovmphdoellm.jzrymep.
rpxdraecehmj.dcmvjdrpdrpmlryjxdfjp 

.fjdzrm.jxdfjzdfrpxdyedfjzdiroj 

"Rdleljpy,dlj..mjqz.,dufmcjdMd.yjjcdlg.jci "

.fjdyeevdfjzdfrpxdrurgdrpxdceevjxdxeupdrydyfjdxjrxdlrp dYfjpdyfj
lrztjcceq.d.jci-oepyzecdufmofdfrxdqafjcxdfjzd.edirzdxj.jzyjxdfjz 

"Arqc!"d.fjdozmjx d"Fq.krpx!dEf,dHex!"dRpxdamyofmphdiezurzxd.fj
ijccdqpoep.omeq.dyedyfjdhzeqpx 

Mp.yrpycgdAemzeydur.dkj.mxjdfjz,dfjdzrm.jxdyfjdcmxdeidfjzdjgj,
ijcydfjzdaqc.j dUfjpdfjdfrxd.rym.imjxdfml.jcidyfryd.fjdfrxdzjrccg
irmpyjx,dfjdxzjudr.mxj dFjdorqhfydljdkgdyfjdrzl 

"Mdrldrpdmlkjomcj,dlgdizmjpx!dMidjtjzdyfjzjdur.dcetjdrpxdhzmjidmp
rduelrp'.dtemoj,dMdfjrzxdmydyfjp dLgdcmyycjdmxjrdur.drccduzeph d_Jf
kmjp!_dMdlq.yd.yrzydrhrmp!"




6

Yfjd.ojpjdeidyfjdOzmlj


Kjyujjpdyfjl,dyfjdxeoyezdrpxdL dFrqyjydorzzmjxdyfjdqpoep.omeq.duelrp
mpyedyfjdfeq.j dYfjdoellm..rzgdceevjxdriyjzdyfjl,d.frvmphdfm.dfjrx 

"_Arqtzjdijllj_,"dfjdlqzlqzjxdyedfml.jci d"Yfjd.feovdur.dyeedlqof
iezdfjz dUjcc,dujcc,dujdorpdxedpeyfmph ddPeu,dL dAemzey,d.frccduj
tm.mydyfjdacrojdufjzjdyfjdozmljdur.doellmyyjx?"

"Midgeqdacjr.j,dL dKjb "

Ujdar..jxdyfzeqhfdyfjdfeq.j,drpxdeqydkgdyfjdizepydxeez dAemzey
frxdceevjxdqadrydyfjd.yrmzor.jdmpdar..mph,drpxd.feevdfm.dfjrxdmp
rdxm..rym.imjxdlrppjz 

"Mydm.dyedljdmpozjxmkcjdyfrydyfjd.jztrpy.dfjrzxdpeyfmph ddYfj
ozjrvmphdeidyfryd.yrmzor.j,dumyfd_yfzjj_dajeacjdxj.ojpxmphdmy,
ueqcxdrurvjpdyfjdxjrx!"

"Mydur.dyfjdlmxxcjdeidyfjdpmhfy,dzjljlkjz dYfjgdujzjd.eqpxdr.cjja
kgdyfjp "

KqydAemzeydoepympqjxdyed.frvjdfm.dfjrxdr.dyfeqhfdpeydiqccgdroojaymph
yfjdjbacrprymep dEpdyfjd.ujjadeidyfjdxzmtj,dfjdarq.jx,dceevmphdqa
rydyfjdfeq.j 

"Ufrydletjxdyfjldmpdyfjdimz.ydacrojdyedyzgdmidyfjdizepydxeezdujzj
eajp?dMydur.drdle.ydqpcmvjcgdyfmphdyfrydmyd.feqcxdkj dMydur.dirz
lezjdazekrkcjdyfrydyfjgd.feqcxdrydepojdyzgdyediezojdrdumpxeu "

"Kqydrccdyfjdumpxeu.depdyfjdhzeqpxdiceezdrzjdkrzzjxdumyfdmzep
.fqyyjz.,"deknjoyjxdyfjdoellm..rzg 

Aemzeydaempyjxdyedrdumpxeudepdyfjdimz.ydiceez 

"Yfrydm.dyfjdumpxeudeidyfjdkjxzeeldujdfrtjdnq.ydoeljdizel,dm.dmy
pey?dRpxd.jj--yfjzjdm.drdyzjjdkgdufmofdmydueqcxdkjdyfjdjr.mj.y
yfmphdmpdyfjduezcxdyedleqpy "

"Ae..mkcg,"drxlmyyjxdyfjdeyfjz d"Kqydyfjgdoeqcxdpeydfrtjdxepjd.e
umyfeqydcjrtmphdieeyazmpy.dmpdyfjdiceujz-kjx "

Md.rudyfjdnq.ymojdeidfm.duezx. dYfjzjdujzjdyuedcrzhjdetrcdiceujz-kjx.
acrpyjxdumyfd.orzcjydhjzrpmql.,depjdjrofd.mxjdeidyfjd.yja.dcjrxmph
qadyedyfjdizepydxeez dYfjdyzjjdmpdwqj.ymepdfrxdmy.dzeey.droyqrccg
rydyfjdkrovdeidyfjdkjxdmy.jci,drpxdmydueqcxdfrtjdkjjpdmlae..mkcj
yedzjrofdmydumyfeqyd.yjaamphdepdyfjdkjx 

"Geqd.jj,"doepympqjxdyfjdoellm..rzg,d"eumphdyedyfjdxzgdujryfjzdpe
azmpy.dueqcxd.feudepdyfjdxzmtjdezdaryf.;dkqy,depdyfjd.eiydleqcxdei
yfjdiceujz-kjx,dmydueqcxdfrtjdkjjpdrdtjzgdxmiijzjpydriirmz "

Aemzeydujpydoce.jdyedyfjdkjxdrpxd.yqxmjxdmydryyjpymtjcg ddR.dKjbdfrx
.rmx,dyfjdleqcxdur.dajzijoycgd.leeyf dYfjzjdur.dpeydrpdmpxjpyrymep
epdmydrpgufjzj 

Aemzeydpexxjx,dr.dyfeqhfdoeptmpojx,drpxdujdyqzpjxdrurg,dkqydfj
.qxxjpcgdxrzyjxdeiidrpxdkjhrpdjbrlmpmphdyfjdeyfjzdiceujz-kjx 

"L dKjb!"dfjdorccjx d".jjdfjzj dFjzjdrzjdacjpygdeidyzroj.diezdgeq "

Yfjdoellm..rzgdnempjxdfml--rpxd.lmcjx 

"LgdxjrzdL dAemzey,dyfe.jdrzjdumyfeqydxeqkydyfjdieeyazmpy.deidyfj
hrzxjpjz'.dcrzhjdfekprmcjxdkeey. dMpdrpgdor.j,dmydueqcxdfrtjdpe
mlaezyrpoj,d.mpojdyfm.d.mxjdujdfrtjdpedyzjj,drpxdoep.jwqjpycgdpe
ljrp.deidhrmpmphdrooj..dyedyfjdqaajzd.yezg "

"Yzqj,"d.rmxdAemzey,djtmxjpycgdozj.yirccjp d".edgeqdyfmpvdyfj.j
ieeyazmpy.drzjdeidpedmlaezyrpoj?"

"Peydyfjdcjr.ydmpdyfjduezcx "

Yfjp,dyedlgdqyyjzdr.yepm.fljpy,dAemzeydazepeqpojxdyfj.jduezx.:

"Mdxedpeydrhzjjdumyfdgeq dMdfrtjdrdcmyycjdmxjrdyfrydyfj.jdieeyazmpy.
rzjdyfjdle.ydmlaezyrpydyfmph.dujdfrtjd.jjpdgjy "

L dKjbd.rmxdpeyfmph,dljzjcgd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. ddFjdur.dirz
yeedoeqzyjeq.dyedqyyjzdfm.dzjrcdeampmep 

".frccdujdazeojjx?"dfjdr.vjxdmp.yjrx 

"Ojzyrmpcg dMdorpdmptj.ymhryjdyfm.dlryyjzdeidyfjdieeyazmpy.dcryjz,"
.rmxdAemzeydofjjziqccg 

Mp.yjrxdeidiecceumphdyfjdxzmtjdxeupdyedyfjdhryj,dL dKjbdyqzpjxdqadr
aryfdyfrydkzrpofjxdeiidrydzmhfydrphcj. dMydcjx,dqadrd.cmhfydmpocmpj,
zeqpxdyedyfjdzmhfydeidyfjdfeq.j,drpxdur.dkezxjzjxdepdjmyfjzd.mxj
kgdrdvmpxdeid.fzqkkjzg d.qxxjpcgdmydjljzhjxdmpyedrdcmyycjdocjrzmph
izeldufmofdepjdekyrmpjxdrdtmjudeidyfjd.jr dRd.jrydfrxdkjjpdacrojx
fjzj,drpxdpeydirzdizeldmydur.drdzryfjzdzrl.frovcjd.fjx dRdiju
.yja.diqzyfjzdep,drdpjrydcmpjdeid.lrccdkq.fj.dlrzvjxdyfjdkeqpxrzg
eidyfjdTmccrdhzeqpx. dL ddKjbdaq.fjxdfm.durgdyfzeqhfdyfj.jdrpxduj
ieqpxdeqz.jctj.depdrdumxjd.yzjyofdeideajpdxeup. dMdceevjxdzeqpx,
rpxd.rud.eljyfmphdyfrydimccjxdljdumyfdr.yepm.fljpy 

"Ufg,dyfm.dm.drdhecidoeqz.j,"dMdozmjx 

Kjbdpexxjx 

"Yfjdcmlmy.drzjdpeydoelacjyjxdgjy,"dfjdjbacrmpjx d"Mydm.dfeajxdye
kjdrkcjdyedeajpdyfjld.eljymljdpjbydlepyf ddMydur.d.eljdeidyfjdljp
uezvmphdepdyfjldufedxm.oetjzjxdyfjdkexgdjrzcgdyfm.dlezpmph "

Mdhrtjdrdhr.a dRdcmyycjdyedlgdcjiy,dufjzjdiezdyfjdleljpydMdfrx
etjzceevjxdmy,dur.drdcephdprzzeudamy,drpxdkgdmy,dirojdxeupurzx.,
ur.dyfjdkexgdeidrdlrp!dIezdrdleljpy,dlgdfjrzydhrtjdrdyjzzmkcjdcjra,
rpxdMdfrxdrdumcxdirpogdyfrydyfjdyzrhjxgdfrxdkjjpdxqacmoryjx dKqy
yfjdoellm..rzgdxm.ajccjxdlgdmccq.mepdkgdletmphdiezurzxdumyfdrd.frza
jbocrlrymepdeidrppegrpoj:

"Ufrydfrtjdlgdaecmojdkjjpdrkeqy?dYfjgdfrxd.yzmoydezxjz.dyedrcceu
pedepjdpjrzdyfjdacrojdumyfeqydazeajzdozjxjpymrc.!"

Yfjdlrpdepdyfjdhzeqpxdyqzpjxdfm.dfjrxdetjzdfm.d.feqcxjz 

"KqydMdfrtjdazeajzdozjxjpymrc.,"dfjdzjlrzvjx,drpxdze.jd.ceucgdye
fm.dijjy 

"LgdxjrzdL dHmzrqx,"dozmjxdyfjdoellm..rzg d"Mdfrxdpedmxjrdyfrydgeq
frxdrzzmtjx,djtjp dYfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdfr.dkjjpdrurmymphdgeq
umyfdyfjdqyle.ydmlarymjpoj "

R.dfjd.aevj,dMdur.d.orppmphdyfjdpju-oeljzdumyfdyfjdvjjpj.y
oqzme.myg dYfjdirleq.dxjyjoymtjdizeldyfjdArzm.d.ûzjyédur.dirlmcmrz
yedljdkgdprlj,drpxdMdur.djbyzjljcgdmpyjzj.yjxdyed.jjdfmldmpdyfj
icj.f dFjdur.dtjzgdyrcc,dajzfra.drkeqydyfmzygdgjrz.deidrhj,dumyf
rqkqzpdfrmzdrpxdleq.yrofj,drpxdrdlmcmyrzgdorzzmrhj dYfjzjdur.dr
yzrojdeidrzzehrpojdmpdfm.dlrppjzdufmofd.feujxdyfrydfjdur.diqccg
rcmtjdyedfm.deupdmlaezyrpoj dKjbdmpyzexqojxdq.,dazj.jpymphdAemzey
r.drdoeccjrhqj dRdicmovjzdeidmpyjzj.ydorljdmpyedyfjdxjyjoymtj'.djgj 

"Mdvpeudgeqdkgdprlj,dL dAemzey,"dfjd.rmx d"Geqdoqydwqmyjdrdimhqzj
mpdyfjdecxdxrg.,dxmxp'ydgeq?dKqydljyfex.drzjdtjzgdxmiijzjpydpeu "

"Ozmlj.,dyfeqhf,drzjdtjzgdlqofdyfjd.rlj,"dzjlrzvjxdAemzeydhjpycg 

Md.rudrydepojdyfrydHmzrqxdur.dazjarzjxdyedkjdfe.ymcj ddFjdzj.jpyjx
yfjdeyfjzdkjmphdr..eomryjxdumyfdfml,drpxdMdijcydyfrydmidfjdorlj
roze..drpgdocqjdeidmlaezyrpojdfjdueqcxdkjdlezjdyfrpdcmvjcgdyedvjja
mydyedfml.jci 

"Yfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj--"dkjhrpdKjbdrhrmp dKqydHmzrqxdmpyjzzqayjx
fmldzqxjcg:

"Rdimhdiezdyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj!dYfjdcmhfydm.dyfjdmlaezyrpy
yfmph dIezdrccdazroymorcdaqzae.j.dmydumccdkjdhepjdmpdrpeyfjz
frci-feqzdezd.e dMdvpeudrccdrkeqydyfjdor.j,drpxdyfjdajeacjdrydyfj
feq.jdumccdxedtjzgdujccdqpymcdyelezzeu,dkqy,dmiduj'zjdhemphdyedimpx
rdocqjdyedyfjdlqzxjzjz.,dfjzjdm.dyfjd.aeydujd.frccdimpxdmy dM.dmy
geqzdaecmojdufedfrtjdkjjpdyzrlacmphdrccdetjzdyfjdacroj?dMdyfeqhfy
yfjgdvpjudkjyyjzdpeurxrg. "

"R..qzjxcgdyfjgdxe dYfjdlrzv.dgeqdoelacrmpdeidujzjdlrxjdkgdyfj
uezvljpdufedxm.oetjzjxdyfjdkexg "

Yfjdeyfjzdhzqpyjxdxm.hq.yjxcg 

"Mdorpd.jjdyfjdyzrov.dufjzjdyfjdyfzjjdeidyfjldorljdyfzeqhfdyfj
fjxhj--kqydyfjgdujzjdoqppmph dGeqdorpdnq.ydzjoehpmsjdyfjdojpyzj
ieeylrzv.dr.dyfe.jdeidL ddZjprqcx,dkqydyfe.jdepdjmyfjzd.mxjdfrtj
kjjpdorzjiqccgdekcmyjzryjx dPeydyfrydyfjzjdueqcxdzjrccgdkjdlqofdye
.jjdrpgurgdepdyfm.dfrzxdhzeqpx,dkqydyfjgdujzjp'ydyrvmphdrpgdofrpoj. "

"Yfjdjbyjzprcd.mhp,"d.rmxdAemzey d"Yfrydm.dufrydgeqd.jjv,djf?"

Yfjdeyfjzdxjyjoymtjd.yrzjx 

"Eidoeqz.j "

Rdtjzgdirmpyd.lmcjdorljdyedAemzey'.dcma. dFjd.jjljxdrkeqydyed.ajrv,
kqydofjovjxdfml.jci dFjdkjpydxeupdyedufjzjdrd.arxjdur.dcgmph 

"Yfry'.dufrydyfjdhzrtjdur.dxqhdumyf,dzmhfydjpeqhf,"d.rmxdHmzrqx d"Kqy
geq'ccdhjydpeyfmphdizeldmy dMydur.dZjprqcx'.deupd.arxj,drpxdyfj
lrpdufedq.jxdmyduezjdhcetj. dFjzjdyfjgdrzj "dFjdhj.ymoqcryjxdumyf
fm.dieeydyedufjzjdyued.emcjxdjrzyf-.yrmpjxdhcetj.dujzjdcgmph d"Rpx
yfjg'zjdZjprqcx'.dyee--ezdrydcjr.ydfm.dhrzxjpjz'. dMdyjccdgeq,
yfjdljpdufedacrppjxdeqydyfm.dozmljdujzjdyrvmphdpedofrpoj. dYfjdlrp
ur.d.yrkkjxdumyfdfm.deupdxrhhjz,drpxdueqcxdfrtjdkjjpdkqzmjxdumyf
fm.deupd.arxj dYfjgdoeqpyjxdepdcjrtmphdpedyzroj.!dKqydM'ccdkjry
yfjl dYfjzj'.drcurg.d_.eljyfmph_!dRpxdMdljrpdyedimpxdmy "

KqydAemzeydur.dpeudraarzjpycgdmpyjzj.yjxdmpd.eljyfmphdjc.j,drd.fezy
xm.oeceqzjxdamjojdeidcjrx-amamphdufmofdcrgdkj.mxjdyfjd.arxj dFj
yeqofjxdmydxjcmoryjcgdumyfdfm.dimphjz 

"Rpxdxej.dyfm.,dyee,dkjcephdyedyfjdlqzxjzjxdlrp?"ddfjdr.vjx,drpx
MdyfeqhfydMdxjyjoyjxdrd.qkycjdicrteqzdeidmzepgdmpdyfjdwqj.ymep 

Hmzrqxd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz.dyedmpxmoryjdyfrydfjdpjmyfjzdvpju
pezdorzjx 

"Lrgdfrtjdkjjpdcgmphdrzeqpxdfjzjdiezdujjv. dRpgurg,dmydxej.p'y
mpyjzj.ydlj "

"M,depdyfjdoepyzrzg,dimpxdmydtjzgdmpyjzj.ymph,"d.rmxdAemzeyd.ujjycg 

Mdhqj..jxdyfrydfjdur.dljzjcgdkjpydepdrppegmphdyfjdArzm.dxjyjoymtj
rpx,dmid.e,dfjd.qoojjxjx dYfjdeyfjzdyqzpjxdrurgdzqxjcg,dzjlrzvmph
yfrydfjdfrxdpedymljdyedur.yj,drpxdkjpxmphdxeupdfjdzj.qljxdfm.dlmpqyj
.jrzofdeidyfjdhzeqpx 

LjrpufmcjdAemzey,dr.dyfeqhfd.yzqovdkgdrd.qxxjpdmxjr,d.yjaajxdkrov
etjzdyfjdkeqpxrzg,drpxdyzmjxdyfjdxeezdeidyfjdcmyycjd.fjx 

"Yfry'.dceovjx,"d.rmxdHmzrqxdetjzdfm.d.feqcxjz d"Kqydmy'.depcgdr
acrojdufjzjdyfjdhrzxjpjzdvjja.dfm.dzqkkm.f ddYfjd.arxjdxmxp'ydoelj
izeldyfjzj,dkqydizeldyfjdyeec.fjxdqadkgdyfjdfeq.j "

"Lrztjcceq.,"dlqzlqzjxdL dKjb,dyedljdjo.yrymorccg dd"Fjdfr.dkjjp
fjzjdkqydfrcidrpdfeqz,drpxdfjdrczjrxgdvpeu.djtjzgyfmph!dUfrydr
lrp!dQpxeqkyjxcgdHmzrqxdm.dyfjdhzjryj.ydxjyjoymtjdrcmtjdyexrg "

RcyfeqhfdMdxm.cmvjxdyfjdxjyjoymtjdfjrzymcg,dMdpjtjzyfjcj..dur.
.jozjycgdmlazj..jx dJiimomjpogd.jjljxdyedzrxmryjdizeldyfjdlrp dM
oeqcxdpeydfjcadijjcmphdyfry,d.edirz,dAemzeydfrxdpeydhzjrycg
xm.ymphqm.fjxdfml.jci,drpxdmydtjbjxdlj dFjd.jjljxdyedkjdxmzjoymph
fm.dryyjpymepdyedrccd.ezy.deid.mccg,daqjzmcjdaempy.dyfrydfrxdpeyfmph
yedxedumyfdyfjdor.j dMpxjjx,drydyfm.dnqpoyqzj,dfjd.qxxjpcgdr.vjx:

"L dKjb,dyjccdlj,dMdazrgdgeq,dyfjdljrpmphdeidyfm.dufmyjur.fjxdcmpj
yfrydjbyjpx.drccdzeqpxdyfjdhzrtj dM.dmydrdxjtmojdeidyfjdaecmoj?"

"Pe,dL dAemzey,dmydm.drpdriirmzdeidyfjdhecidoeqz.j dMyd.feu.dyfry
yfjzjdm.dfjzjdyedkjdrd'kqpvrmz,'dr.dgeqdorccdmy "

"Rdkqpvrmz?"dAemzeydyqzpjxdyedlj d"Yfrydm.dyfjdmzzjhqcrzdfecjdimccjx
umyfd.rpxdrpxdrdkrpvdrydepjd.mxj,dm.dmydpey?"

Mdoepoqzzjx 

"Geqdxedpeydacrgdyfjdheci,dL dAemzey?"dmpwqmzjxdKjb 

"M?dPjtjz!dUfrydrdhrlj!"dFjdkjorljdjbomyjx dd"Imhqzjdyedgeqz.jci,
jrofdfecjdmydm.deidrdxmiijzjpydcjphyf ddYfjdek.yrocj.,dyfjgdrzj
peydrzzrphjxdlryfjlrymorccg ddJtjpdyfjdhzjjp.drzjdizjwqjpycgdqa
epjd.mxj!dYfjzjdm.depcgdepjdacjr.mphdyfmph--yfjdfeudxedgeqdorcc
yfjl?--yjjdkebj.!dYfjg,drydcjr.y,drzjd.glljyzmorc "

Mdoeqcxdpeydzjizrmpdizeldrdcrqhfdrydyfjdurgdyfjdhrljdraajrzjxdye
Aemzey,drpxdlgdcmyycjdizmjpxd.lmcjxdrydljdriijoymepryjcg,dkjrzmph
pedlrcmoj dYfjpdfjdr.vjx:

"KqydL dZjprqcx,dumyfeqydxeqkydfjdacrgjxdyfjdheci?"

"Gj.,dfjdur.drdvjjpdhecijz dMy'.dlrmpcgdeumphdyedfml,drpxdyedfm.
crzhjd.qk.ozmaymep.,dyfrydyfm.duezvdm.dkjmphdorzzmjxdiezurzx dFj
jtjpdfrxdrd.rgdmpdyfjdxj.mhpmphdeidmy "

Aemzeydpexxjxdyfeqhfyiqccg 

Yfjpdfjdzjlrzvjx:

"Mydur.dpeydrdtjzgdheexdofemojdyfjgdlrxj--eidrd.aeydyedkqzgdyfj
kexg?dUfjpdyfjdljpdkjhrpdyedxmhdqadyfjdhzeqpx,drccdueqcxdfrtj
kjjpdxm.oetjzjx "

"Jbroycg,"dozmjxdHmzrqxdyzmqlafrpycg d"Rpxdyfryd_azetj._dyfrydyfjg
ujzjd.yzrphjz.dyedyfjdacroj dMy'.drpdjbojccjpydamjojdeidmpxmzjoy
jtmxjpoj "

"Gj.,"d.rmxdAemzeydxeqkyiqccg d"Pedepjdufedvpjudueqcxdkqzgdrdkexg
yfjzj--qpcj..--qpcj..--yfjgd_urpyjx_dmydyedkjdxm.oetjzjx dRpxdyfry
m.docjrzcgdrk.qzx,dm.dmydpey?"

Hmzrqxdxmxdpeydjtjpdyzeqkcjdyedzjacg 

"Gj.,"d.rmxdAemzey,dmpdrd.eljufrydxm..rym.imjxdtemoj 
"Gj.--qpxeqkyjxcg--rk.qzx!"




7

YfjdLg.yjzmeq.dLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc


R.dujdzjyzrojxdeqzd.yja.dyedyfjdfeq.j,dL dKjbdjboq.jxdfml.jci
iezdcjrtmphdq.,djbacrmpmphdyfrydfjdlq.ydmlljxmryjcgdrowqrmpydyfj
jbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdumyfdyfjdiroydeidHmzrqx'.drzzmtrc dHmzrqx
fml.jcidfrxdkjjpdektmeq.cgdxjcmhfyjxdufjpdAemzeydxjocrzjxdyfrydfjdfrx
.jjpdrccdfjdurpyjx dYfjdcr.ydyfmphdujdek.jztjx,dr.dujdcjiydyfjd.aey,
ur.dHmzrqx,dozrucmphdrkeqydepdrccdieqz.,dumyfdrdyfezeqhfpj..dmpdfm.
.jrzofdyfrydMdoeqcxdpeydkqydrxlmzj ddAemzeydhqj..jxdlgdyfeqhfy.,
iezdr.d.eepdr.dujdujzjdrcepjdfjdzjlrzvjxdmzepmorccg:

"Rydcr.ydgeqdfrtjd.jjpdyfjdxjyjoymtjdgeqdrxlmzj--yfjdfqlrp
iebfeqpx!dM.dmydpeyd.e,dlgdizmjpx?"

"Rydrpgdzryj,dfj'.d_xemph_d.eljyfmph,"dMd.rmx,dumyfdr.ajzmyg d"Mi
yfjzj'.drpgyfmphdyedimpx,dfj'ccdimpxdmy dPeudgeq--"

"_Jfdkmjp!_dMdrc.edfrtjdieqpxd.eljyfmph!dRdamjojdeidcjrx-amamph "

"Pep.jp.j,dAemzey dGeqdvpeudtjzgdujccdyfry'.dheydpeyfmphdyedxedumyf
my dMdljrpyd_cmyycj_dyfmph.--yzroj.dyfrydlrgdcjrxdq.dmpirccmkcgdye
yfjdlqzxjzjz. "

"_Lepdrlm_,drdocqjdeidyuedijjydcephdm.djtjzgdkmydr.dtrcqrkcjdr.
epjdljr.qzmphdyuedlmccmljyzj.!dKqydmydm.dyfjdzelrpymodmxjrdyfry
rccdmlaezyrpydocqj.dlq.ydkjdmpimpmyj.mlrc!ddR.dyedyfjdamjojdei
cjrx-amamphdfrtmphdpeyfmphdyedxedumyfdyfjdozmlj,dgeqd.rgdyfry
kjorq.jdHmzrqxdyecxdgeqd.e ddPe"--r.dMdur.drkeqydyedmpyjzae.jdr
wqj.ymep--"ujdumccd.rgdpedlezj dCjrtjdHmzrqxdyedfm.d.jrzof,drpxdlj
yedlgdmxjr. dYfjdor.jd.jjl.d.yzrmhfyiezurzxdjpeqhf--rpxdgjy--rpx
gjy,d_lepdrlm_,dMdrldpeyd.rym.imjx!dRpxdxedgeqdvpeudufg?dKjorq.jdei
yfjduzm.yduryofdyfrydm.dyuedfeqz.dir.y dRpxdyfjpdyfjzjdrzjd.jtjzrc
oqzmeq.dcmyycjdaempy.dyfrydxedpeyd.jjldyedimydmp dIezdmp.yrpoj,
midyfjdeknjoydeidyfjdlqzxjzjz.dur.dzjtjphj,dufgdxmxdyfjgdpeyd.yrk
Zjprqcxdmpdfm.d.cjjadrpxdfrtjdxepjdumyfdmy?"

"Yfjgdurpyjxdyfjd'.jozjy,'"dMdzjlmpxjxdfml 

Aemzeydkzq.fjxdrd.ajovdeidxq.ydizeldfm.d.cjjtjdumyfdrdxm..rym.imjx
rmz 

"Ujcc,dufjzjdm.dyfm.d'.jozjy'?dAzj.qlrkcgd.eljdxm.yrpojdrurg,
.mpojdyfjgdum.fdfmldyedxzj..dfml.jci dGjydfjdm.dieqpxdlqzxjzjx
oce.jdrydfrpx,drcle.ydumyfmpdjrz-.feydeidyfjdfeq.j dYfjpdrhrmp,
mydm.daqzjdofrpojdyfrydrdujraepd.qofdr.dyfjdxrhhjzd.feqcxdkjdcgmph
rkeqydor.qrccg,dzjrxgdyedfrpx "

Fjdarq.jxdizeupmph,drpxdyfjpdujpydep:

"Ufgdxmxdyfjd.jztrpy.dfjrzdpeyfmph?dUjzjdyfjgdxzqhhjx?dUr.dyfjzj
rpdrooelacmojdrpxdxmxdyfrydrooelacmojd.jjdyedmydyfrydyfjdizepydxeez
.feqcxdzjlrmpdeajp?dMduepxjzdmi--"

Fjd.yeaajxdrkzqaycg dUjdfrxdzjrofjxdyfjdxzmtjdmpdizepydeidyfj
feq.j d.qxxjpcgdfjdyqzpjxdyedlj 

"Lgdizmjpx,dMdrldrkeqydyed.qzazm.jdgeq--yedacjr.jdgeq!dMdfrtjdyrvjp
geqzdzjazerofj.dyedfjrzy!dUjdumccdjbrlmpjd.eljdieeyazmpy.!"

"Ufjzj?"

"Mpdyfrydzmhfy-frpxdkjxdgepxjz dL dKjbd.rg.dyfrydyfjgdrzjdyfj
ieeylrzv.deidyfjdhrzxjpjz dCjydq.d.jjdmidyfrydm.d.e d.jj,dfj
raazerofj.dumyfdfm.dufjjckrzzeu "

Mpxjjxdrpdjcxjzcgdlrpdur.dnq.ydoze..mphdyfjdxzmtjdumyfdrdkrzzeuiqc
eid.jjxcmph. dAemzeydorccjxdyedfml,drpxdfjd.jydxeupdyfjdkrzzeudrpx
orljdfekkcmphdyeurzx.dq. 

"Geqdrzjdhemphdyedr.vdfmldiezdepjdeidfm.dkeey.dyedoelarzjdumyf
yfjdieeylrzv.?"dMdr.vjxdkzjryfcj..cg dLgdirmyfdmpdAemzeydzjtmtjx
rdcmyycj d.mpojdfjd.rmxdyfjdieeyazmpy.dmpdyfm.dzmhfy-frpxdkjxdujzj
mlaezyrpy,dazj.qlrkcgdyfjgd_ujzj_ 

"Jbroycg,"d.rmxdAemzey 

"Kqyduep'ydfjdyfmpvdmydtjzgdexx?"

"Fjdumccdpeydyfmpvdrkeqydmydrydrcc "

Ujdoeqcxd.rgdpedlezj,diezdyfjdecxdlrpdfrxdnempjxdq. 

"Geqdurpydljdiezd.eljyfmph,dlep.mjqz?"

"Gj. dGeqdfrtjdkjjpdhrzxjpjzdfjzjdrdcephdymlj,dfrtjp'ydgeq?"

"Yujpyg-ieqzdgjrz.,dlep.mjqz "

"Rpxdgeqzdprljdm.--?"

"Rqhq.yj,dlep.mjqz "

"Mdur.drxlmzmphdyfj.jdlrhpmimojpydhjzrpmql. dYfjgdrzjdyzqcg
.qajzk dYfjgdfrtjdkjjpdacrpyjxdceph?"

".eljdymlj,dlep.mjqz dKqydeidoeqz.j,dyedvjjadyfjdkjx.dceevmphd.lrzy,
epjdlq.ydvjjadkjxxmphdeqydrdijudpjudacrpy.,drpxdzjletjdyfe.jdyfry
rzjdetjz,dkj.mxj.dvjjamphdyfjdecxdkceel.dujccdamovjxdeii "

"Geqdaqydmpd.eljdpjudacrpy.dgj.yjzxrg,dxmxp'ydgeq?ddYfe.jdmpdyfj
lmxxcjdyfjzj,drpxdmpdyfjdeyfjzdkjxdrc.e?"

"Lep.mjqzdfr.drd.frzadjgj dMydyrvj.drcurg.drdxrgdezd.ediezdyfjldye
'amovdqa 'dGj.,dMdaqydyjpdpjudacrpy.dmpdjrofdkjxdcr.ydpmhfy dR.
Lep.mjqzdxeqkycj..dvpeu.,depjd.feqcxdpeydaqydmpdacrpy.dufjpdyfj
.qpdm.dfey "

Rqhq.yjdur.dofrzljxdumyfdAemzey'.dmpyjzj.y,drpxdur.dwqmyjdmpocmpjx
yedkjdhrzzqceq. 

"Yfrydm.drd.acjpxmxd.ajomljpdyfjzj,"d.rmxdAemzey,daempymph d"Lmhfy
Mdajzfra.dfrtjdrdoqyymphdeidmy?"

"Kqydojzyrmpcg,dlep.mjqz "dYfjdecxdijcceud.yjaajxdmpyedyfjdkjx,
rpxdorzjiqccgdyeevdrd.cmadizeldyfjdacrpydAemzeydfrxdrxlmzjx 

Aemzeydur.dazeiq.jdmpdfm.dyfrpv.,drpxdRqhq.yjdxjarzyjxdyedfm.dkrzzeu 

"Geqd.jj?"d.rmxdAemzeydumyfdrd.lmcj,dr.dfjdkjpydetjzdyfjdkjxdye
jbrlmpjdyfjdmpxjpyrymepdeidyfjdhrzxjpjz'.dfekprmcjxdkeey d"Mydm.
wqmyjd.mlacj "

"Mdxmxdpeydzjrcmsj--"

"Yfrydyfjdieeydueqcxdkjdmp.mxjdyfjdkeey?dGeqdxedpeydq.jdgeqz
jbojccjpydljpyrcdoraromymj.d.qiimomjpycg dUjcc,dufrydeidyfj
ieeylrzv?"

Mdjbrlmpjxdyfjdkjxdorzjiqccg 

"Rccdyfjdieeylrzv.dmpdyfjdkjxdujzjdlrxjdkgdyfjd.rljdkeey,"dMd.rmx
rydcjphyfdriyjzdrdorzjiqcd.yqxg 

"Geqdyfmpvd.e?d_Jfdkmjp_,dMdrhzjjdumyfdgeq,"d.rmxdAemzey 

Fjd.jjljxdwqmyjdqpmpyjzj.yjx,drpxdr.dyfeqhfdfjdujzjdyfmpvmphdei
.eljyfmphdjc.j 

"Rydrpgdzryj,"dMdzjlrzvjx,d"geqdumccdfrtjdepjdkjjdcj..dmpdgeqz
keppjydpeu "

"_LepdXmjq!_dKqydufrydrpdmxmel!dUfrydxej.dmydljrp?"

"UfrydMdljrpydur.dyfrydpeudgeqdumccdhmtjdqadgeqzdmpyjzj.ydmpdyfj.j
ieeylrzv. "

Kqydyedlgd.qzazm.jdAemzeyd.feevdfm.dfjrx 

"Pe,dpe,d_lepdrlm_ dRydcr.ydMdrldepdyfjdzmhfydyzrov dMdrld.ymcc
mpdyfjdxrzv,dkqy,dr.dMdfmpyjxdnq.ydpeudyedL dKjb,dyfj.jdieeylrzv.
rzjdyfjdle.ydmlaezyrpydrpxdmpyjzj.ymphdyfmph.dmpdyfjdor.j!dYfry
aeezdHmzrqx--Md.feqcxdpeydkjd.qzazm.jxdmidfjdyeevdpedpeymojdei
yfjldufryjtjz "

Rydyfrydleljpy,dyfjdizepydxeezdeajpjx,drpxdL ddFrqyjydrpxdyfj
oellm..rzgdorljdxeupdyfjd.yja. 

"Rf,dL dAemzey,dujdujzjdoelmphdyedceevdiezdgeq,"d.rmxdyfj
lrhm.yzryj d"Mydm.dhjyymphdcryj,dkqydMdum.fdyedargdrdtm.mydyedLrxrlj
Xrqkzjqmc dUmyfeqydxeqkyd.fjdumccdkjdtjzgdlqofdqa.jydkgdL dZjprqcx'.
xjryf,drpxdujdlrgdkjdiezyqpryjdjpeqhfdyedhjydrdocqjdizeldfjz dYfj
.jozjydyfrydfjdxmxdpeydoepimxjdyedfm.dumij,dmydm.dae..mkcjdyfry
fjdlrgdfrtjdyecxdmydyedyfjduelrpdufe.jdcetjdfjcxdfmldjp.crtjx 
Ujdvpeudufjzjdeqzd.rl.ep.drzjdujrv,dxep'yduj?"

Mdrxlmzjxdyfjdamoyqzj.wqjpj..deidL dFrqyjy'.dcrphqrhj ddMd.q.ajoyjx
yfrydyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdur.dkgdpeudyfezeqhfcgdjpnegmphdfm.
arzydmpdyfjdlg.yjzmeq.dxzrlr 

"M.dL dHmzrqxdpeydhemphdyedrooelarpgdq.?"dr.vjxdAemzey 

"L dHmzrqxdfr.d.feupdocjrzcgdyfrydfjdazjijz.dyedoepxqoydyfjdor.jdmp
fm.deupdurg,"d.rmxdL dFrqyjydxzgcg ddEpjdoeqcxd.jjdjr.mcgdjpeqhf
yfrydHmzrqx'.dortrcmjzdyzjryljpydeidyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdfrx
peydazjnqxmojxdyfjdcryyjzdmpdfm.dirteqz dUjd.rmxdpedlezj,dkqydijcc
mpyedcmpj dAemzeydurcvjxdumyfdyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj,drpxdyfj
oellm..rzgdrpxdMdiecceujxdrdijudaroj.dkjfmpx 

"Yfjzjdm.dpedxeqkydyfrydIzrpçem.j'.d.yezgdm.d.qk.yrpymrccgdoezzjoy,"
fjdzjlrzvjxdyedljdmpdrdoepimxjpymrcdyepj d"Mdfrtjdkjjpdyjcjafepmph
fjrxwqrzyjz. dMyd.jjl.dyfrydyfzjjdymlj.dmpdyfjdcr.yd.mbdujjv.--yfry
m.dyed.rgd.mpojdyfjdrzzmtrcdeidL dZjprqcxdrydLjzcmptmccj--Lrxrlj
Xrqkzjqmcdfr.darmxdrdcrzhjd.qldmpdpeyj.dmpyedfjzdkrpvmphdrooeqpy 
Rcyehjyfjzdyfjd.qldyeyrc.dyuedfqpxzjxdyfeq.rpxdizrpo.!"

"Xjrzdlj,"dMd.rmx,doep.mxjzmph,d"yfrydlq.ydkjd.eljyfmphdcmvjdieqz
yfeq.rpxdaeqpx.!"

"Azjom.jcg dGj.,dyfjzjdorpdkjdpedxeqkydyfrydfjdur.drk.ecqyjcg
mpiryqryjx dKqydmydzjlrmp.dyedkjd.jjpdufjyfjzdfjdoepimxjxdfm.
.jozjydyedfjz dYfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdm.dfeajiqc,dkqydMdfrzxcg
.frzjdfm.dtmju. "

Xqzmphdyfm.doeptjz.rymepdujdujzjdurcvmphdxeupdyfjdcrpjdyeurzx.dyfj
iezvdmpdyfjdzerxdufjzjdeqzdorzdfrxdfrcyjxdjrzcmjzdmpdyfjdriyjzpeep,
rpxdmpdrpeyfjzdleljpydMdzjrcmsjxdyfrydyfjdTmccrdLrzhqjzmyj,dyfj
feljdeidyfjdlg.yjzmeq.dLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc,dur.dyfjd.lrccdfeq.jdizel
ufmofdyfjdkjrqymiqcdhmzcdfrxdjljzhjx 

".fjdfr.dcmtjxdfjzjdiezdlrpgdgjrz.,"d.rmxdyfjdoellm..rzg,dpexxmph
fm.dfjrxdyeurzx.dyfjdfeq.j d"Tjzgdwqmjycg,dtjzgdqpekyzq.mtjcg d.fj
.jjl.dyedfrtjdpedizmjpx.dezdzjcrymep.deyfjzdyfrpdyfjdrowqrmpyrpoj.
.fjdfr.dlrxjdmpdLjzcmptmccj d.fjdpjtjzdzjijz.dyedyfjdar.y,dpezdye
fjzdfq.krpx dEpjdxej.dpeydjtjpdvpeudmidfjdm.drcmtjdezdxjrx dYfjzjdm.
rdlg.yjzgdrkeqydfjz,dgeqdoelazjfjpx "ddMdpexxjx,dlgdmpyjzj.ydhzeumph 

"Rpx--yfjdxrqhfyjz?"dMdtjpyqzjx 

"Rdyzqcgdkjrqymiqcdgeqphdhmzc--lexj.y,dxjteqy,drccdyfryd.fjd.feqcx
kj dEpjdamymj.dfjz,diez,dyfeqhfd.fjdlrgdvpeudpeyfmphdeidyfjdar.y,
rdlrpdufedurpy.dyedr.vdfjzdfrpxdmpdlrzzmrhjdlq.ydpjoj..rzmcgdmpiezl
fml.jci,drpxdyfjp--"dYfjdoellm..rzgd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz.dogpmorccg 

"Kqydmydueqcxdpeydkjdfjzdirqcy!"dMdozmjx,dumyfdzm.mphdmpxmhprymep 

"Pe dKqydufrydumccdgeq?dRdlrpdm.darzymoqcrzdrkeqydfm.dumij'.
rpyjojxjpy. "

Mdur.dazjtjpyjxdizeldiqzyfjzdrzhqljpydkgdeqzdrzzmtrcdrydyfj
xeez dL dFrqyjydzrphdyfjdkjcc dRdijudlmpqyj.djcra.jx,drpxdyfjpduj
fjrzxdrdieeyirccdumyfmp,drpxdyfjdxeezdur.deajpjx dEpdyfjdyfzj.fecx
.yeexdlgdgeqphdhexxj..deidyfrydriyjzpeep dUfjpd.fjd.rudq.,dyfjdoeceqz
cjiydfjzdofjjv.,dcjrtmphdfjzdxjryfcgdufmyj,drpxdfjzdjgj.dumxjpjx
umyfdraazjfjp.mep dYfjzjdur.dpedxeqkydrkeqydmy,d.fjdur.drizrmx!

"Lrxjlem.jccjdXrqkzjqmc,"d.rmxdL dFrqyjy,d.ujjamphdeiidfm.dfry,
"ujdzjhzjydmpimpmyjcgdyedxm.yqzkdgeq,dkqydyfjdjbmhjpomj.deidyfj
Cru--geqdoelazjfjpx?dLgdoelacmljpy.dyedLrxrljdgeqzdleyfjz,drpxdumcc
.fjdfrtjdyfjdheexpj..dyedhzrpydljdrdijudleljpy.'dmpyjztmju "

Iezdrdleljpydyfjdhmzcd.yeexdleymepcj.. dFjzdcjiydfrpxdur.dazj..jx
yedfjzd.mxj,dr.dyfeqhfdyed.ymccdyfjd.qxxjpdqpoepwqjzrkcjdrhmyrymep
eidfjzdfjrzy dKqyd.fjdlr.yjzjxdfjz.jci,drpxd.rmxdmpdrdceudtemoj:

"Mdumccdhedrpxd.jj dAcjr.jdoeljdmp.mxj "

.fjdjpyjzjxdrdzeeldepdyfjdcjiydeidyfjdfrcc,drpxdujdfjrzxdyfjdceu
lqzlqzdeidfjzdtemoj dRpxdyfjpdrpeyfjzdtemoj,dlqofdyfjd.rljdmp
ymlkzj,dkqydumyfdrd.cmhfycgdfrzxjzdmpicjoymepdkjfmpxdmy.dljcceu
zeqpxpj..d.rmx:

"Kqydojzyrmpcg dR.vdyfjldyedjpyjz "

Mpdrpeyfjzdlmpqyjdujdujzjdirojdyedirojdumyfdyfjdlg.yjzmeq.dLrxrlj
Xrqkzjqmc 

.fjdur.dpeydpjrzcgd.edyrccdr.dfjzdxrqhfyjz,drpxdyfjdzeqpxjxdoqztj.
eidfjzdimhqzjdfrxdrccdyfjdhzrojdeidiqccdlryqzmyg dFjzdfrmz,drhrmp
qpcmvjdfjzdxrqhfyjz'.,dur.dxrzv,drpxdarzyjxdmpdyfjdlmxxcjdmp
yfjdlrxepprd.ygcj ddFjzdjgj.,dfrcidfmxxjpdkgdyfjdxzeeamphdcmx.,
ujzjdkcqj ddYfjzjdur.drdxmlacjdmpdyfjdzeqpxdofmp,drpxdyfjdfrci
arzyjxdcma.d.jjljxdrcurg.dyedfetjzdepdyfjdtjzhjdeidrdlg.yjzmeq.
.lmcj dYfjzjdur.d.eljyfmphdrcle.ydjbrhhjzryjxcgdijlmpmpjdrkeqydfjz,
rydepojdgmjcxmphdrpxd.jxqoymtj dYfeqhfdtjzgdujccdazj.jztjx,d.fjdur.
ojzyrmpcgdpedcephjzdgeqph,dkqydfjzdofrzldur.deidyfjdwqrcmygdufmof
m.dmpxjajpxjpydeidrhj 

.yrpxmphdyfjzj,dmpdfjzdkcrovdxzj..dumyfdyfjdizj.fdufmyjdoeccrz
rpxdoqii.,dfjzdfrpx.docr.ajxdyehjyfjz,d.fjdceevjxd.qkycgdraajrcmph
rpxdfjcacj.. 

"Geqdum.fjxdyed.jjdlj,dlep.mjqz?"d.fjdr.vjx 

"Gj.,dlrxrlj "dL dFrqyjydocjrzjxdfm.dyfzery d"Mdrldmptj.ymhrymph
yfjdxjryfdeidL dZjprqcx dGeqdfrtjdfjrzxdeidmy,dpedxeqky?"

.fjdkeujxdfjzdfjrxdumyfeqyd.ajrvmph dFjzdjbazj..mepdxmxdpeydofrphj 

"Ujdorljdyedr.vdgeqdufjyfjzdgeqdorp--jz--yfzeudrpgdcmhfydqaepdyfj
omzoql.yrpoj.d.qzzeqpxmphdmy?"

"M?"dYfjd.qzazm.jdeidfjzdyepjdur.djbojccjpy 

"Gj.,dlrxrlj dMydueqcx,dajzfra.,dkjdkjyyjzdmidujdoeqcxd.ajrvdye
geqdrcepj "dFjdceevjxdljrpmphcgdmpdyfjdxmzjoymepdeidyfjdhmzc 

LrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdyqzpjxdyedfjz 

"Lrzyfj,dxjrz--"

Kqydyfjdhmzcd.feevdfjzdfjrx 

"Pe,d_lrlrp_,dMdumccdpeydhe dMdrldpeydrdofmcx dMdrldyujpyg-yue dM
.frccdpeydhe "

LrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdyqzpjxdkrovdyedyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj 

"Geqd.jj,dlep.mjqz "

"Md.feqcxdazjijzdpeydyed.ajrvdkjiezjdLrxjlem.jccjdXrqkzjqmc "

"R.dlgdxrqhfyjzd.rg.,d.fjdm.dpeydrdofmcx "

Iezdrdleljpydyfjdlrhm.yzryjdfj.myryjx,dkriicjx 

"Tjzgdujcc,dlrxrlj,"dfjd.rmxdrydcr.y d"Frtjdmydgeqzdeupdurg dUj
frtjdzjr.epdyedkjcmjtjdyfrydgeqdujzjdmpdyfjdfrkmydeidtm.mymphdyfj
xjrxdlrpdrydfm.dTmccrdmpdyfjdjtjpmph. ddM.dyfryd.e?"

Yfjdoeceqzdze.jdmpdyfjdcrxg'.darcjdofjjv.,dkqyd.fjdzjacmjxdwqmjycg:

"Mdxjpgdgeqzdzmhfydyedr.vdljd.qofdrdwqj.ymep!"

"Lrxrlj,dujdrzjdmptj.ymhrymphdrdlqzxjz "

"Ujcc,dufrydeidmy?dMdfrxdpeyfmphdyedxedumyfdyfjdlqzxjz "

"Lrxrlj,dujdxedpeyd.rgdyfrydiezdrdleljpy dKqydgeqdvpjudyfjdxjrxdlrp
ujcc dXmxdfjdjtjzdoepimxjdmpdgeqdr.dyedrpgdxrphjzdyfrydyfzjryjpjx
fml?"

"Pjtjz "

"Xmxdfjdjtjzdljpymepdfm.dcmijdmpd.rpymrhe,drpxdrpgdjpjlmj.dfjdlrg
frtjdlrxjdyfjzj?"

"Pe "

"Yfjpdgeqdorpdhmtjdq.dpedfjcadrydrcc?"

"Mdijrzdpey dMdzjrccgdxedpeyd.jjdufgdgeqd.feqcxdoeljdyedlj dOrppey
fm.dumijdyjccdgeqdufrydgeqdurpydyedvpeu?"dFjzdtemojdfjcxdrd.cjpxjz
mpicjoymepdeidmzepg 

"LrxrljdZjprqcxdfr.dyecxdq.drccd.fjdorp "

"Rf!"d.rmxdLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc d"Mduepxjz--"

"Geqduepxjzdufry,dlrxrlj?"

"Peyfmph "

Yfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdceevjxdrydfjz dFjdur.drurzjdyfrydfjdur.
imhfymphdrdxqjc,drpxdyfrydfjdfrxdpedljrpdrpyrhepm.y 

"Geqdajz.m.ydmpdgeqzd.yryjljpydyfrydL dZjprqcxdoepimxjxdpeyfmph
mpdgeq?"

"Ufgd.feqcxdgeqdyfmpvdmydcmvjcgdyfrydfjd.feqcxdoepimxjdmpdlj?"

"Kjorq.j,dlrxrlj,"d.rmxdL dFrqyjy,dumyfdorcoqcryjxdkzqyrcmyg d"R
lrpdyjcc.dyedfm.dlm.yzj..dufrydfjdxej.dpeydrcurg.dyjccdyedfm.dumij "

"Rf!"d.fjd.azrphdiezurzx dFjzdjgj.dicr.fjxdimzj dd"Lep.mjqz,dgeq
mp.qcydlj!dRpxdkjiezjdlgdxrqhfyjz!dMdorpdyjccdgeqdpeyfmph dFrtj
yfjdheexpj..dyedcjrtjdlgdfeq.j!"

Yfjdfepeqz.dqpxeqkyjxcgdzj.yjxdumyfdyfjdcrxg dUjdcjiydyfjdTmccr
Lrzhqjzmyjdcmvjdrd.frljirojxdarovdeid.ofeeckeg. dYfjdlrhm.yzryj
lqyyjzjxdrphzgdjnroqcrymep.dyedfml.jci dAemzeyd.jjljxdce.ydmp
yfeqhfy d.qxxjpcgdfjdorljdeqydeidfm.dzjtjzmjdumyfdrd.yrzy,drpx
mpwqmzjxdeidL dFrqyjydmidyfjzjdur.drdheexdfeyjcdpjrzdrydfrpx 

"Yfjzjdm.drd.lrccdacroj,dyfjdFeyjcdxj.dKrmp.,depdyfm.d.mxjdei
yeup dRdijudfqpxzjxdgrzx.dxeupdyfjdzerx dMydumccdkjdfrpxgdiezdgeqz
mptj.ymhrymep. dUjd.frccd.jjdgeqdmpdyfjdlezpmphdyfjp,dMdazj.qlj?"

"Gj.,dMdyfrpvdgeq,dL dFrqyjy "

Umyfdlqyqrcdomtmcmymj.,dujdarzyjxdoelarpg,dAemzeydrpxdMdhemphdyeurzx.
Ljzcmptmccj,drpxdyfjdeyfjz.dzjyqzpmphdyedyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj 

"YfjdIzjpofdaecmojd.g.yjldm.dtjzgdlrztjcceq.,"d.rmxdAemzey,dceevmph
riyjzdyfjl d"Yfjdmpiezlrymepdyfjgdae..j..drkeqydjtjzgdepj'.dcmij,
xeupdyedyfjdle.ydoellepacrojdxjyrmc,dm.djbyzrezxmprzg dYfeqhfdfj
fr.depcgdkjjpdfjzjdrdcmyycjdetjzd.mbdujjv.,dyfjgdrzjdajzijoycgdujcc
rowqrmpyjxdumyfdL dZjprqcx'.dyr.yj.drpxdaqz.qmy.,drpxdrydrdleljpy'.
peymojdyfjgdorpdazexqojdmpiezlrymepdr.dyedLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc'.dkrpvmph
rooeqpy,drpxdyfjd.ql.dyfrydfrtjdcryjcgdkjjpdarmxdmp!dQpxeqkyjxcg
yfjd_xe..mjz_dm.drdhzjrydmp.ymyqymep dKqydufrydm.dyfry?"dFjdyqzpjx
.frzacg 

Rdimhqzjdur.dzqppmphdfrycj..,dxeupdyfjdzerxdriyjzdq. ddMydur.
LrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc 

"Mdkjhdgeqzdarzxep,"d.fjdozmjxdkzjryfcj..cg,dr.d.fjdzjrofjxdq. d"M--M
.feqcxdpeydxedyfm.,dMdvpeu dGeqdlq.ydpeydyjccdlgdleyfjz dKqydm.dmy
yzqj,dufrydyfjdajeacjd.rg,dyfrydL dZjprqcxdorccjxdmpdrdxjyjoymtj
kjiezjdfjdxmjx,drpx--rpxdyfrydgeqdrzjdfj?"

"Gj.,dlrxjlem.jccj,"d.rmxdAemzeydhjpycg d"Mydm.dwqmyjdyzqj dKqy
feudxmxdgeqdcjrzpdmy?"

"Izrpçem.jdyecxdeqzdRlécmj,"djbacrmpjxdLrzyfj,dumyfdrdkcq.f 

Aemzeydlrxjdrdhzmlroj 

"Yfjd.jozjog,dmydm.dmlae..mkcjdmpdrpdriirmzdeidyfm.dvmpx!ddPeydyfry
mydlryyjz. dUjcc,dlrxjlem.jccj,dufrydm.dmydgeqdurpydyedvpeu?"

Yfjdhmzcdfj.myryjx d.fjd.jjljxdcephmph,dgjydijrzmph,dyed.ajrv dRy
cr.y,drcle.ydmpdrdufm.ajz,d.fjdr.vjx:

"M.--rpgdepjd.q.ajoyjx?"

Aemzeydjgjxdfjzdvjjpcg 

Yfjpdfjdzjacmjxdjtr.mtjcg:

".q.amomepdm.dmpdyfjdrmzdrydazj.jpy,dlrxjlem.jccj "

"Gj.,dMdvpeu--kqy--rpgdepjdmpdarzymoqcrz?"

"Ufgdxedgeqdurpydyedvpeu?"

Yfjdhmzcd.jjljxdizmhfyjpjxdkgdyfjdwqj.ymep dRccdrydepojdAemzey'.
uezx.drkeqydfjzdjrzcmjzdmpdyfjdxrgdzjoqzzjxdyedlj dYfjd"hmzcdumyf
yfjdrpbmeq.djgj.!"

"L dZjprqcxdur.drcurg.dtjzgdvmpxdyedlj,"d.fjdzjacmjxdrydcr.y d"My
m.dpryqzrcdyfrydMd.feqcxdkjdmpyjzj.yjx "

"Md.jj,"d.rmxdAemzey d"Ujcc,dlrxjlem.jccj,d.q.amomepdrydazj.jpydm.
fetjzmphdzeqpxdyuedajz.ep. "

"Yue?"

Mdoeqcxdfrtjd.uezpdyfjzjdur.drdpeyjdeid.qzazm.jdrpxdzjcmjidmp
fjzdtemoj 

"Yfjmzdprlj.drzjdqpvpeup,dkqydyfjgdrzjdazj.qljxdyedkjdOfmcmrp.dizel
.rpymrhe dRpxdpeu,dlrxjlem.jccj,dgeqd.jjdufrydoelj.deidkjmphdgeqph
rpxdkjrqymiqc!dMdfrtjdkjyzrgjxdazeij..meprcd.jozjy.diezdgeq!"

Yfjdhmzcdcrqhfjxdljzzmcg,drpxdyfjp,dzryfjzd.fgcg,d.fjdyfrpvjxdfml 

"Mdlq.ydzqpdkrovdpeu d_Lrlrp_dumccdlm..dlj "

Rpxd.fjdyqzpjxdrpxdzrpdkrovdqadyfjdzerx,dceevmphdcmvjdrdlexjzp
Ryrcrpyr dMd.yrzjxdriyjzdfjz 

"_Lepdrlm_,"d.rmxdAemzey,dmpdfm.dhjpycjdmzepmorcdtemoj,d"m.dmydyfry
ujdrzjdyedzjlrmpdacrpyjxdfjzjdrccdpmhfy--nq.ydkjorq.jdgeqdfrtjd.jjp
rdkjrqymiqcdgeqphduelrp,drpxdgeqzdfjrxdm.dmpdrdufmzc?"

Mdcrqhfjxdrpxdraecehmsjx 

"Kqyd.fjd_m._dkjrqymiqc,dAemzey dRpgdepjdlmhfydkjdjboq.jxdiezdkjmph
keucjxdetjzdkgdfjz "

Aemzeydhzerpjx 

"_LepdXmjq!_dKqydmydm.dyfrydgeqdfrtjdyfjd.q.ojaymkcjdfjrzy!"

"Aemzey,"dMd.rmx,d"xedgeqdzjljlkjzdriyjzdyfjd.ygcj.dOr.jdufjp--"

"Ufjpdgeqdujzjdmpdcetjdumyfdyuedofrzlmphdueljpdrydepoj,drpxdpjmyfjz
eidyfjldujzjdiezdgeq?dGj.,dMdzjljlkjz "

"Geqdoep.ecjxdljdkgd.rgmphdyfrydajzfra.d.eljdxrgdujd.feqcxdfqpy
yehjyfjzdrhrmp,drpxdyfrydyfjp--"

"_Jfdkmjp?_"

"Ujcc,dujdrzjdfqpymphdyehjyfjzdrhrmp,drpx--"dMdarq.jx,drpxdcrqhfjx
zryfjzd.jci-oep.omeq.cg 

Kqydyedlgd.qzazm.jdAemzeyd.feevdfm.dfjrxdtjzgdjrzpj.ycg 

"Rf,d_lepdrlm_,dxedpeyd.jydgeqzdfjrzydepdLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc dd.fjdm.
peydiezdgeq,dyfrydepj!dYrvjdmydizeldArardAemzey!"

"Ufg,"dMdozmjx,d"yfjdoellm..rzgdr..qzjxdljdyfryd.fjdur.dr.dheexdr.
.fjdm.dkjrqymiqc!dRdajzijoydrphjc!"

".eljdeidyfjdhzjryj.ydozmlmprc.dMdfrtjdvpeupdfrxdyfjdiroj.dei
rphjc.,"dzjlrzvjxdAemzeydofjjziqccg d"Rdlrciezlrymepdeidyfjdhzjg
ojcc.dlrgdoempomxjdwqmyjdjr.mcgdumyfdyfjdirojdeidrdlrxeppr "

"Aemzey,"dMdozmjx,dfezzmimjx,d"geqdorppeydljrpdyfrydgeqd.q.ajoydrp
mppeojpydofmcxdcmvjdyfm.!"

"Yr-yr-yr!dXedpeydjbomyjdgeqz.jci!dMdfrtjdpeyd.rmxdyfrydMd.q.ajoyjx
fjz dKqydgeqdlq.ydrxlmydyfrydfjzdrpbmjygdyedvpeudrkeqydyfjdor.jdm.
.eljufrydqpq.qrc "

"Iezdepoj,dMd.jjdiqzyfjzdyfrpdgeqdxe,"dMd.rmx d"Fjzdrpbmjygdm.dpey
iezdfjz.jci--kqydiezdfjzdleyfjz "

"Lgdizmjpx,"d.rmxdAemzey,d"r.dq.qrc,dgeqd.jjdpeyfmphdrydrcc dLrxrlj
Xrqkzjqmcdm.dtjzgdujccdrkcjdyedceevdriyjzdfjz.jcidumyfeqydfjz
xrqhfyjzduezzgmphdrkeqydfjz dMdrxlmydMdur.dyjr.mphdgeqdnq.ydpeu,
kqydrccdyfjd.rljdMdzjajrydufrydMd.rmxdkjiezj dXedpeyd.jydgeqz
fjrzydepdyfrydhmzc dd.fjdm.dpeydiezdgeq!dM,dFjzoqcjdAemzey,dvpeu
my d_.rozé!_dmidepcgdMdoeqcxdzjljlkjzdufjzjdMdfrxd.jjpdyfrydiroj!"

"Ufrydiroj?"dMdr.vjx,d.qzazm.jx d"Yfjdxrqhfyjz'.?"

"Pe dYfjdleyfjz'. "

Peymphdlgd.qzazm.j,dfjdpexxjxdjlafrymorccg 

"Kqydgj.--mydm.dr.dMdyjccdgeq dMydur.drdcephdymljdrhe,dufjpdMdur.
.ymccdumyfdyfjdAecmojdmpdKjchmql dMdfrtjdpjtjzdroyqrccgd.jjpdyfj
uelrpdkjiezj,dkqydMdfrtjd.jjpdfjzdamoyqzj--rpxdmpdoeppjoymepdumyf
.eljdor.j dMdzryfjzdirpog--"

"Gj.?"

"Mdlrgdkjdlm.yrvjp,dkqydMdzryfjzdirpogdyfrydmydur.drdlqzxjzdor.j!"




8

RpdQpjbajoyjxdLjjymph


UjdujzjdqadrydyfjdTmccrdkjymlj.dpjbydlezpmph dYfjdlrpdepdhqrzxdry
yfjdhryjdxmxdpeydkrzdeqzdurgdyfm.dymlj dMp.yjrx,dfjdzj.ajoyiqccg
.rcqyjxdq.,drpxdujdar..jxdepdyedyfjdfeq.j dYfjdlrmxdCéepmjdur.
nq.ydoelmphdxeupdyfjd.yrmz.,drpxd.jjljxdpeydrtjz.jdyedyfjdaze.ajoy
eidrdcmyycjdoeptjz.rymep 

AemzeydmpwqmzjxdriyjzdyfjdfjrcyfdeidLz. dZjprqcx 

Céepmjd.feevdfjzdfjrx 

".fjdm.dyjzzmkcgdqa.jy,d_crdarqtzjdxrlj_!d.fjdumccdjrydpeyfmph--kqy
peyfmph!dRpxd.fjdm.dr.darcjdr.drdhfe.y dMydm.dfjrzyzjpxmphdyed.jj
fjz dRf,d_arzdjbjlacj_,dmydm.dpeydMdufedueqcxdhzmjtjdcmvjdyfrydiez
rdlrpdufedfrxdxjojmtjxdljdumyfdrpeyfjzduelrp!"

Aemzeydpexxjxd.glaryfjymorccg 

"Ufrydgeqd.rgdm.dtjzgdnq.y,dkqydufrydumccdgeq?dYfjdfjrzydeidrduelrp
ufedcetj.dumccdiezhmtjdlrpgdkceu. dd.ymcc,dqpxeqkyjxcgdyfjzjdlq.y
frtjdkjjpdlrpgd.ojpj.deidzjozmlmprymepdkjyujjpdyfjldmpdyfjdcr.y
ijudlepyf.?"

RhrmpdCéepmjd.feevdfjzdfjrx 

"Pjtjz,dlep.mjqz dPjtjzdfrtjdMdfjrzxdLrxrljdqyyjzdrduezxdei
azeyj.y--eidzjazerof,djtjp!d.fjdfrxdyfjdyjlajzdrpxdxm.ae.mymepdei
rpdrphjc--wqmyjdxmiijzjpydyedLep.mjqz "

"Lep.mjqzdZjprqcxdfrxdpeydyfjdyjlajzdeidrpdrphjc?"

"Irzdizeldmy dUfjpdfjdjpzrhjxdfml.jci,dyfjdufecjdfeq.jdvpjudei
my dYfjdxrgdyfrydfjdwqrzzjccjxdumyfdL ddNrov--_lrdiem!_dyfjgdlmhfy
frtjdkjjpdfjrzxdmpdyfjdlrzvjydacroj,dyfjgd.feqyjxd.edceqx!"

"Mpxjjx,"d.rmxdAemzey d"Rpxdufjpdxmxdyfm.dwqrzzjcdyrvjdacroj?"

"Ef!dmydur.dnq.ydkjiezjdL dNrovdujpydyedArzm. ddRcle.ydfjdlm..jx
fm.dyzrmp dFjdorljdeqydeidyfjdcmkzrzg,drpxdorqhfydqadfm.dkrhdufmof
fjdfrxdcjiydmpdyfjdfrcc dYfjdrqyelekmcj,dmydur.dkjmphdzjarmzjx,
rpxdfjdfrxdyedzqpdiezdyfjd.yrymep dMdur.dxq.ymphdyfjd.rcep,drpxdM
.rudfmldar..,drpxdfm.dirojdur.dufmyj--ufmyj--umyfdyuedkqzpmphd.aey.
eidzjx dRf,dkqydfjdur.drphzg!"

Céepmjdur.djpnegmphdfjzdprzzrymtjdyfezeqhfcg 

"Rpxdyfjdxm.aqyj,dufrydur.dmydrkeqy?"

"Rf,dyfrydMdxedpeydvpeu,"doepij..jxdCéepmj d"Mydm.dyzqjdyfry
yfjgd.feqyjx,dkqydyfjmzdtemoj.dujzjd.edceqxdrpxdfmhf,drpxdyfjg
.aevjd.edir.y,dyfrydepcgdepjdujccdrowqrmpyjxdumyfdJphcm.fdoeqcx
frtjdoelazjfjpxjx dKqydLep.mjqz,dfjdur.dcmvjdrdyfqpxjzoceqxdrcc
xrg!dMlae..mkcjdyedacjr.jdfml!"

Yfjd.eqpxdeidrdxeezd.fqyymphdqa.yrmz.doqyd.fezydCéepmj'.dcewqromyg 

"RpxdIzrpçem.jdufedrurmy.dlj!"d.fjdjbocrmljx,drurvjpmphdyedrdyrzxg
zjljlkzrpojdeidfjzdxqymj. d"Yfrydecxdepj,d.fjdrcurg.d.oecx. "

"Epjdleljpy,dlrxjlem.jccj dYfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj,dufjzjdm.dfj?"

"Yfjgdfrtjdhepjdeqydyedceevdrydyfjdrqyelekmcjdmpdyfjdhrzrhj dLep.mjqz
yfjdoellm..rzgdfrxd.eljdmxjrdyfrydmydlmhfydfrtjdkjjpdq.jxdepdyfj
pmhfydeidyfjdlqzxjz "

"_Wqjccjdmxéj_,"dlqzlqzjxdAemzey,dr.dyfjdhmzcdxm.raajrzjx 

"Geqdumccdhedeqydrpxdnempdyfjl?"

"Pe,dMd.frccdrurmydyfjmzdzjyqzpdmpdyfjd_.rcep_ dMydm.doeecdyfjzj
epdyfm.dfeydlezpmph "

Yfm.dacromxdurgdeidyrvmphdyfmph.dxmxdpeydwqmyjdoelljpxdmy.jcidyedlj 

"Midgeqdxep'ydlmpx--"dMd.rmx,drpxdfj.myryjx 

"Peydmpdyfjdcjr.y dGeqdum.fdyedmptj.ymhryjdepdgeqzdeupdrooeqpy,djf?"

"Ujcc,dM'xdzryfjzdcmvjdyedfrtjdrdceevdrydHmzrqx,dmidfj'.drpgufjzj
rkeqy,drpxd.jjdufrydfj'.dqadye "

"Yfjdfqlrpdiebfeqpx,"dlqzlqzjxdAemzey,dr.dfjdcjrpjxdkrovdmp
rdoeliezyrkcjdofrmz,drpxdoce.jxdfm.djgj. dd"Kgdrccdljrp.,dlg
izmjpx dRqdzjtemz "

Md.yzeccjxdeqydeidyfjdizepydxeez dMydur.dojzyrmpcgdfey dMdyqzpjx
qadyfjdaryfdujdfrxdyrvjpdyfjdxrgdkjiezj dMdfrxdrdlmpxdyed.yqxg
yfjd.ojpjdeidyfjdozmljdlg.jci dMdxmxdpeydhedxmzjoycgdyedyfjd.aey,
feujtjz,dkqydyqzpjxdr.mxjdmpyedyfjdkq.fj.,d.edr.dyedoeljdeqydepdyfj
cmpv.d.eljdfqpxzjxdgrzx.dezd.ediqzyfjzdyedyfjdzmhfy dMidHmzrqxdujzj
.ymccdepdyfjd.aey,dMdurpyjxdyedek.jztjdfm.dljyfex.dkjiezjdfjdvpju
eidlgdazj.jpoj dKqydyfjd.fzqkkjzgdfjzjdur.dlqofdxjp.jz,drpxdMdfrx
wqmyjdrd.yzqhhcjdyediezojdlgdurgdyfzeqhf dUfjpdMdjljzhjxdrydcr.ydep
yfjdoeqz.j,dmydur.dwqmyjdqpjbajoyjxcgdrpxdumyfd.qofdtmheqzdyfrydM
orppepjxdfjrtmcgdmpyedrdgeqphdcrxgdufedfrxdkjjpd.yrpxmphdumyfdfjz
krovdyedyfjdacrpyrymep 

.fjdpeydqppryqzrccgdhrtjdrd.qaazj..jxd.fzmjv,dkqydM,dyee,dqyyjzjx
rpdjbocrlrymepdeid.qzazm.j dIezdmydur.dlgdizmjpxdeidyfjdyzrmp,
Ompxjzjccr!

Yfjd.qzazm.jdur.dlqyqrc 

"Geq,"dujdkeyfdjbocrmljxd.mlqcyrpjeq.cg 

Yfjdgeqphdcrxgdzjoetjzjxdfjz.jcidimz.y 

"LgdepcgdRqpy!"d.fjdjbocrmljx d"Ufrydrzjdgeqdxemphdfjzj?"

"Iezdyfjdlryyjzdeidyfry,dufrydrzjdgeq?"dMdzjyezyjx 

"Ufjpdcr.ydMd.rudgeq,dyfjdxrgdkjiezjdgj.yjzxrg,dgeqdujzjdyzeyymph
feljdyedJphcrpxdcmvjdrdheexdcmyycjdkeg ddFrtjdyfjgdhmtjpdgeqdr
.jr.epdymovjydyedrpxdize,depdyfjd.yzjphyfdeidgeqzdL A ?"

Mdmhpezjxdyfjdjpxdeidyfjd.ajjof 

"Ufjpdcr.ydMd.rudgeq,"dMd.rmx,d"geqdujzjdyzeyymphdfeljdumyfdgeqz
.m.yjz,dcmvjdrdheexdcmyycjdhmzc dKgdyfjdurg,dfeudm.dgeqzd.m.yjz?"

Rdicr.fdeidufmyjdyjjyfdzjurzxjxdlj 

"Feudvmpxdeidgeqdyedr.v!dLgd.m.yjzdm.dujcc,dMdyfrpvdgeq "

".fjdm.dfjzjdumyfdgeq?"

".fjdzjlrmpjxdmpdyeup,"d.rmxdyfjdlmpbdumyfdxmhpmyg 

"Mdxep'ydkjcmjtjdgeq'tjdheydrd.m.yjz,"dMdcrqhfjx d"Midgeqdfrtj,
fjzdprljdm.dFrzzm.!"

"Xedgeqdzjljlkjzdlmpj?"d.fjdr.vjx,dumyfdrd.lmcj 

"Ompxjzjccr dKqydgeq'zjdhemphdyedyjccdljdyfjdzjrcdepjdpeu,drzjp'y
geq?"

.fjd.feevdfjzdfjrxdumyfdrdumovjxdceev 

"Peydjtjpdufgdgeq'zjdfjzj?"

"Ef,dyfry!dMd.qaae.jdgeq'tjdfjrzxdeidljlkjz.deidlgdazeij..mep
'zj.ymph '"

"Rydjbajp.mtjdIzjpofduryjzmph-acroj.?"

"Xmzydofjradmidgeqdvpeudufjzjdyedhe "

Mdjgjxdfjzdvjjpcg 

".ymcc,dgeq'xdpedmpyjpymepdeidoelmphdfjzjdufjpdMdljydgeqdyue
xrg.drhe?"

"Ujdrccdfrtjdeqzdxm.raaempyljpy.,"d.rmxdLm..dOmpxjzjccr
.jpyjpymeq.cg d"Yfjzjdpeu,dM'tjdyecxdgeqdwqmyjdr.dlqofdr.dm.dheex
iezdgeq dCmyycjdkeg.d.feqcxdpeydkjdmpwqm.mymtj dGeq'tjdpeydgjy
yecxdljdufrydgeq'zjdxemphdfjzj?dHeydyfjdL A dmpdyeu,dMd.qaae.j,
xemphdyfjdhrgdkegdepdyfjdkjrof "

Md.feevdlgdfjrx d"Hqj..drhrmp dGeqdzjljlkjzdlgdyjccmphdgeqdyfrydlg
hzjrydizmjpxdur.drdxjyjoymtj?"

"Gj.?"

"Rpxdajzfra.dgeq'tjdfjrzxdrkeqydyfm.dozmlj--rydyfjdTmccr
Hjpjtmètj--?"

.fjd.yrzjxdrydlj dFjzdkzjr.ydfjrtjx,drpxdfjzdjgj.dhzjudumxjdrpx
zeqpx 

"Geqdxep'ydljrp--yfrydgeq'zjdmpdepd_yfry_?"

Mdpexxjx dYfjzjdur.dpedxeqkydyfrydMdfrxd.oezjxdfjrtmcg dFjzdjleymep,
r.d.fjdzjhrzxjxdlj,dur.depcgdyeedjtmxjpy dIezd.eljdijud.joepx.,
.fjdzjlrmpjxd.mcjpy,d.yrzmphdrydlj dYfjpd.fjdpexxjxdfjzdfjrx
jlafrymorccg 

"Ujcc,dmidyfrydxej.p'ydkjrydyfjdkrpx!dYeyjdljdzeqpx ddMdurpydye
.jjdrccdyfjdfezzez. "

"Ufrydxedgeqdljrp?"

"UfrydMd.rg dKcj..dyfjdkeg,dxmxp'ydMdyjccdgeqdMdxeyjxdepdozmlj.?dUfry
xedgeqdyfmpvdM'ldmlajzmccmphdlgdrpvcj.diezdmpdfmhf-fjjcjxd.fej.detjz
yfm.d.yqkkcj?dM'tjdkjjpdpe.mphdzeqpxdiezdfeqz. dYzmjxdyfjdizepydurg
mp,dkqydyfrydecxd.ymov-mp-yfj-lqxdeidrdIzjpofdhjpxrzljdur.p'ydyrvmph
rpg dMdhqj..dFjcjpdeidYzeg,drpxdOcjearyzr,drpxdLrzg,dWqjjpdeid.oey.,
zeccjxdmpdepjdueqcxp'ydoqydmojdumyfdfml!dMy'.drdzjrcdamjojdeidcqov
fraajpmphdepdgeqdyfm.durg dOeljdep,d.feudljdrccdyfjd.mhfy. "

"Kqydceevdfjzj--urmydrdlmpqyj--Mdorp'y dPekexg'.drcceujxdmp dYfjg'zj
ruiqccgd.yzmoy "

"Rzjp'ydgeqdrpxdgeqzdizmjpxdyfjdkmhdkqh.?"

Mdur.dceryfdyedzjcmpwqm.fdlgdae.mymepdeidmlaezyrpoj 

"Ufgdrzjdgeqd.edvjjp?"dMdr.vjxdujrvcg d"Rpxdufrydm.dmydgeqdurpy
yed.jj "

"Ef,djtjzgyfmph!dYfjdacrojdufjzjdmydfraajpjx,drpxdyfjdujraep,
rpxdyfjdkexg,drpxdrpgdimphjz-azmpy.dezdmpyjzj.ymphdyfmph.dcmvj
yfry dM'tjdpjtjzdfrxdrdofrpojdeidkjmphdzmhfydmpdepdrdlqzxjzdcmvj
yfm.dkjiezj dMy'ccdcr.ydljdrccdlgdcmij?"

Mdyqzpjxdrurg,d.movjpjx dUfrydujzjdueljpdoelmphdyedpeurxrg.?dYfj
hmzc'.dhfeqcm.fdjbomyjljpydprq.jryjxdlj dMdfrxdzjrxdeidyfjdlek.
eidueljpdufedkj.mjhjxdyfjdcrudoeqzy.dufjpd.eljduzjyofjxdlrpdur.
kjmphdyzmjxdiezdfm.dcmijdepdyfjdoramyrcdofrzhj dMdfrxd.eljymlj.
uepxjzjxdufedyfj.jdueljpdujzj dPeudMdvpju dYfjgdujzjdeidyfj
cmvjpj..deidOmpxjzjccr,dgeqph,dgjydek.j..jxdumyfdrdgjrzpmphdiez
lezkmxdjbomyjljpy,diezd.jp.rymepdrydrpgdazmoj,dumyfeqydzjhrzxdye
rpgdxjojpogdezdheexdijjcmph dYfjdtmtmxpj..deidyfjdhmzc'.dkjrqygdfrx
ryyzroyjxdljdmpd.amyjdeidlg.jci,dgjydrydfjrzydMdzjyrmpjxdlgdimz.y
mlazj..mepdeidxm.raazetrcdrpxdxm.cmvj dMdyfeqhfydeidlgdleyfjz,
cephd.mpojdxjrx dUfrydueqcxd.fjdfrtjd.rmxdeidyfm.d.yzrphjdlexjzp
azexqoydeidhmzcfeex?dYfjdazjyygdirojdumyfdyfjdarmpydrpxdaeuxjz,
rpxdyfjdhfeqcm.fdlmpxdkjfmpx!

"Oeljdeiidgeqzdfmhfdfez.j,"d.rmxdyfjdcrxgd.qxxjpcg dd"Rpxdxep'ydhmtj
geqz.jcidrmz. dUfjpdgeqdheydorccjxdyedyfm.dnek,dxmxdgeqdaqydgeqz
pe.jdmpdyfjdrmzdrpxd.rgdmydur.drdpr.ygdkq.mpj..,drpxdgeqdueqcxp'y
kjdlmbjxdqadmpdmy?"

"Pe,dkqy--"

"Midgeq'xdkjjpdfjzjdepdrdfecmxrg,dueqcxp'ydgeqdkjdpe.mphdzeqpxdnq.y
yfjd.rljdr.dMdrl?dEidoeqz.jdgeqdueqcx "

"M'ldrdlrp dGeq'zjdrduelrp "

"Geqzdmxjrdeidrduelrpdm.d.eljdepjdufedhjy.depdrdofrmzdrpxd.fzmjv.
mid.fjd.jj.drdleq.j dYfry'.drccdazjfm.yezmo ddKqydgeqd_umcc_d.feu
ljdzeqpx,duep'ydgeq?dGeqd.jj,dmydlmhfydlrvjdrdkmhdxmiijzjpojdyedlj "

"Mpdufrydurg?"

"Yfjg'zjdvjjamphdrccdyfjdzjaezyjz.deqy dMdlmhfydlrvjdrdkmhd.oeea
umyfdepjdeidyfjdarajz. dGeqdxep'ydvpeudfeudlqofdyfjgdargdiezdrdkmy
eidmp.mxjd.yqii "

Mdfj.myryjx d.fjd.cmaajxdrd.lrccd.eiydfrpxdmpyedlmpj 

"_Acjr.j_--yfjzj'.drdxjrz "

Mdoramyqcryjx d.jozjycg,dMdvpjudyfrydMd.feqcxdzryfjzdjpnegdyfj
arzydeid.feulrp dRiyjzdrcc,dyfjdlezrcdryymyqxjdxm.acrgjxdkgdyfj
hmzcdur.dpepjdeidlgdkq.mpj.. dMdur.drdcmyycjdpjzteq.dr.dyedufry
yfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdlmhfyd.rg,dkqydMdzjr..qzjxdlg.jcidkgdyfj
zjicjoymepdyfrydpedfrzldoeqcxdae..mkcgdkjdxepj 

Ujdzjarmzjxdimz.ydyedyfjd.aeydufjzjdyfjdkexgdfrxdkjjpdxm.oetjzjx dR
lrpdur.depdhqrzxdyfjzj,dufed.rcqyjxdzj.ajoyiqccg,dvpeumphdljdkg
.mhfy,drpxdzrm.jxdpedwqj.ymepdr.dyedlgdoelarpmep dAzj.qlrkcgdfj
zjhrzxjxdfjzdr.dteqofjxdiezdkgdlj dMdjbacrmpjxdyedOmpxjzjccrdnq.y
feudyfjdxm.oetjzgdfrxdkjjpdlrxj,drpxd.fjdcm.yjpjxdryyjpymtjcg,
.eljymlj.daqyymphdrpdmpyjccmhjpydwqj.ymep dYfjpdujdyqzpjxdeqzd.yja.
mpdyfjdxmzjoymepdeidyfjdTmccr dMdazeojjxjxdzryfjzdorqymeq.cg,diez,
yzqyfdyedyjcc,dMdur.dpeydrydrccdrpbmeq.dyedljjydrpgdepj dMdyeevdyfj
hmzcdyfzeqhfdyfjd.fzqkkjzgdzeqpxdyedyfjdkrovdeidyfjdfeq.jdufjzj
yfjd.lrccd.fjxdur. dMdzjoeccjoyjxdyfrydgj.yjzxrgdjtjpmph,driyjz
zjceovmphdyfjdxeez,dL dKjbdfrxdcjiydyfjdvjgdumyfdyfjd_.jzhjpydxj
tmccj_dLrzofrqx,d"mpdor.jdL dHmzrqxd.feqcxdzjwqmzjdmydufmcjdujdrzj
qa.yrmz. "dMdyfeqhfydmydwqmyjdcmvjcgdyfrydyfjd.ûzjyédxjyjoymtj,
riyjzdq.mphdmy,dfrxdzjyqzpjxdmydyedLrzofrqxdrhrmp dCjrtmphdyfjdhmzc
eqydeid.mhfydmpdyfjd.fzqkkjzg,dMdjpyjzjxdyfjdfeq.j dLrzofrqxdur.dep
xqygdeqy.mxjdyfjdxeezdeidyfjd_.rcep_ dIzeldumyfmpdorljdyfjdlqzlqz
eidtemoj. 

"Lep.mjqzdxj.mzj.dFrqyjy?dFjdm.dumyfmp dFjdm.drhrmpdmpyjzzehrymph
Izrpçem.j "

"Pe,"dMd.rmxdfr.ymcg,d"Mdxep'ydurpydfml dKqydMd.feqcxdtjzgdlqof
cmvjdyfjdvjgdeidyfjd.fjxdeqy.mxjdmidmydm.dpeydrhrmp.ydzjhqcrymep. "

"Kqydojzyrmpcg,dlep.mjqz "dFjdazexqojxdmy d"Fjzjdmydm. dL dcj
nqhjdhrtjdezxjz.dyfrydrccdiromcmymj.dujzjdyedkjdacrojxdrydgeqz
xm.ae.rc dGeqdumccdzjyqzpdmydyedljdufjpdgeqdfrtjdimpm.fjxdeqydyfjzj,
yfrydm.drcc "

"Eidoeqz.j "

Mdijcydrdyfzmccdeid.rym.iroymepdr.dMdzjrcmsjxdyfrydmpdLrzofrqx'.
jgj.,drydcjr.y,dMdzrpvjxdjwqrccgdmpdmlaezyrpojdumyfdAemzey dYfj
hmzcdur.durmymphdiezdlj d.fjdhrtjdrpdjbocrlrymepdeidxjcmhfydr.d.fj
.rudyfjdvjgdmpdlgdfrpx 

"Geq'tjdheydmydyfjp?"

"Eidoeqz.j,"dMd.rmxdoeeccg d"Rccdyfjd.rlj,dgeqdvpeu,dufrydM'ldxemph
m.dfmhfcgdmzzjhqcrz "

"Geq'tjdkjjpdrdajzijoydxqov,drpxdMd.frp'ydiezhjydmy ddOelj
rceph dYfjgdorp'yd.jjdq.dizeldyfjdfeq.j,dorpdyfjg?"

"Urmydrdlmpqyj "dMdrzzj.yjxdfjzdjrhjzdrxtrpoj d"Mduep'yd.yeadgeqdmi
geqdzjrccgdum.fdyedhedmp dKqydxedgeq?ddGeq'tjd.jjpdyfjdhzrtj,drpx
yfjdhzeqpx.,drpxdgeq'tjdfjrzxdrccdyfjdxjyrmc.deidyfjdriirmz dM.p'y
yfrydjpeqhfdiezdgeq?dYfm.dm.dhemphdyedkjdhzqj.elj,dgeqdvpeu,drpx--
qpacjr.rpy "

.fjdceevjxdrydljdiezdrdleljpydumyfdrpdjbazj..mepdyfrydMdoeqcxdpey
wqmyjdiryfel dYfjpd.fjdcrqhfjx 

"Ljdiezdyfjdfezzez.,"d.fjd.rmx d"Oeljdrceph "

Mpd.mcjpojdujdrzzmtjxdrydyfjdxeezdeidyfjd.fjx dMdeajpjxdmydrpxduj
ar..jxdmp dMdurcvjxdetjzdyedyfjdkexg,drpxdhjpycgdaqccjxdxeupdyfj
.fjjydr.dL dKjbdfrxdxepjdyfjdazjojxmphdriyjzpeep dRdcmyycjdhr.amph
.eqpxdj.orajxdizeldyfjdhmzc'.dcma.,drpxdMdyqzpjxdrpxdceevjxdrydfjz 
Yfjzjdur.dfezzezdepdfjzdirojdpeu,drpxdyfe.jdxjkeprmzdfmhfd.amzmy.
eidfjz.dujzjdwqjpofjxdqyyjzcg d.fjdfrxdpeydofe.jpdyedcm.yjpdyedlg
rxtmoj,drpxd.fjdur.daqpm.fjxdpeudiezdfjzdxm.zjhrzxdeidmy dMdijcy
.mphqcrzcgdljzomcj..dyeurzx.dfjz d.fjd.feqcxdhedyfzeqhfdumyfdmy
peu dMdyqzpjxdyfjdoeza.jdhjpycgdetjz 

"Geqd.jj,"dMd.rmx,d"fjdur.d.yrkkjxdmpdyfjdkrov "

Fjzdtemojdur.drcle.yd.eqpxcj.. 

"Umyfdufry?"

Mdpexxjxdyeurzx.dyfjdhcr..dnrz 

"Yfrydxrhhjz "

.qxxjpcgdyfjdhmzcdzjjcjx,drpxdyfjpd.rpvdxeupdmpdrdfjra dMd.azrph
yedfjzdr..m.yrpoj 

"Geqdrzjdirmpy dOeljdeqydeidfjzj dMydfr.dkjjpdyeedlqofdiezdgeq "

"Uryjz,"d.fjdlqzlqzjx d"Wqmov dUryjz d d d "

Mdcjiydfjz,drpxdzq.fjxdmpyedyfjdfeq.j dIezyqpryjcgdpepjdeidyfj
.jztrpy.dujzjdrkeqy,drpxdMdur.drkcjdyed.joqzjdrdhcr..deiduryjz
qpek.jztjxdrpxdrxxdrdijudxzea.deidkzrpxgdizeldrdaeovjydicr.v dMpdr
ijudlmpqyj.dMdur.dkrovdrhrmp dYfjdhmzcdur.dcgmphdr.dMdfrxdcjiydfjz,
kqydrdijud.ma.deidyfjdkzrpxgdrpxduryjzdzjtmtjxdfjzdmpdrdlrztjcceq.
lrppjz 

"Yrvjdljdeqydeidfjzj--ef,dwqmovcg,dwqmovcg!"d.fjdozmjx,d.fqxxjzmph 

.qaaezymphdfjzdumyfdlgdrzldMdcjxdfjzdeqydmpyedyfjdrmz,drpxd.fj
aqccjxdyfjdxeezdyedkjfmpxdfjz dYfjpd.fjdxzjudrdxjjadkzjryf 

"Yfry'.dkjyyjz dEf,dmydur.dfezzmkcj!dUfgdxmxdgeqdjtjzdcjydljdhedmp?"

Mdijcydyfm.dyedkjd.edijlmpmpjdyfrydMdoeqcxdpeydiezkjrz
rd.lmcj d.jozjycg,dMdur.dpeydxm..rym.imjxdumyfdfjzdoeccra.j 
Mydazetjxdyfryd.fjdur.dpeydwqmyjd.edorcceq.dr.dMdfrxdyfeqhfy
fjz dRiyjzdrccd.fjdur.dcmyycjdlezjdyfrpdrdofmcx,drpxdfjzdoqzme.myg
frxdazekrkcgdkjjpdeidyfjdqpyfmpvmphdezxjz 

"Mdxmxdlgdkj.ydyed.yeadgeq,dgeqdvpeu,"dMd.rmxdhjpycg 

"Md.qaae.jdgeqdxmx dUjcc,dheex-kgj "

"Ceevdfjzj,dgeqdorp'yd.yrzydeiidcmvjdyfry--rccdrcepj ddGeq'zjdpey
imydiezdmy dMdmp.m.ydepdrooelarpgmphdgeqdkrovdyedLjzcmptmccj "

"Pep.jp.j dM'ldwqmyjdrccdzmhfydpeu "

".qaae.mphdgeqdijcydirmpydrhrmp?dPe,dMd.frccdoeljdumyfdgeq "

Kqydyfm.d.fjdoelkryjxdumyfdrdheexdxjrcdeidjpjzhg dMpdyfjdjpx,
feujtjz,dMdazjtrmcjxd.edirzdr.dyedkjdrcceujxdyedrooelarpgdfjzdyedyfj
eqy.vmzy.deidyfjdyeup dUjdzjyzrojxdeqzd.yja.detjzdeqzdiezljzdzeqyj,
ar..mphdyfjdhzrtjdrhrmp,drpxdlrvmphdrdxjyeqzdepdyedyfjdzerx dUfjzj
yfjdimz.yd.yzrhhcmphdcmpjdeid.fea.dkjhrp,d.fjd.yeaajxdrpxdfjcxdeqy
fjzdfrpx 

"Heex-kgj,drpxdyfrpvdgeqdjtjzd.edlqofdiezdoelmphdumyfdlj "

"Rzjdgeqd.qzjdgeq'zjdrccdzmhfydpeu?"

"Wqmyj,dyfrpv. dMdfeajdgeqduep'ydhjydmpyedrpgdyzeqkcjdetjzd.feumph
ljdyfmph.?"

Mdxm.ocrmljxdyfjdmxjrdcmhfycg 

"Ujcc,dheex-kgj "

"Rqdzjtemz,"dMdoezzjoyjx d"Midgeq'zjd.yrgmphdfjzj,dujd.frccdljjy
rhrmp "

.fjdicr.fjxdrd.lmcjdrydlj 

"Yfry'.d.e dRqdzjtemz,dyfjp "

"Urmydrd.joepx,dgeqdfrtjp'ydyecxdljdgeqzdrxxzj..?"

"Ef,dM'ld.yrgmphdrydyfjdFôyjcdxqdAfrzj dMy'.drdcmyycjdacroj,
kqydwqmyjdheex dOeljdrpxdceevdljdqadyelezzeu "

"Mdumcc,"dMd.rmx,dumyfdajzfra.dzryfjzdqppjoj..rzgd_jlazj..jljpy_ 

Mduryofjxdfjzdeqydeid.mhfy,dyfjpdyqzpjxdrpxdzjyzrojxdlgd.yja.dye
yfjdTmccr dMdzjljlkjzjxdyfrydMdfrxdpeydzjceovjxdyfjdxeezdeidyfj
.fjx dIezyqpryjcgdpedepjdfrxdpeymojxdyfjdetjz.mhfy,drpxdyqzpmphdyfj
vjgdMdzjletjxdmydrpxdzjyqzpjxdmydyedyfjd_.jzhjpydxjdtmccj_ dRpx,
r.dMdxmxd.e,dmydorljdqaepdljd.qxxjpcgdyfrydyfeqhfdOmpxjzjccrdfrx
hmtjpdljdfjzdrxxzj..dMd.ymccdxmxdpeydvpeudfjzdprlj 




9

L dHmzrqxdImpx.d.eljdOcqj.


Mpdyfjd_.rcep_dMdieqpxdyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdkq.mcgdmpyjzzehrymph
yfjdecxdhrzxjpjzdRqhq.yj dAemzeydrpxdyfjdoellm..rzg,dufedujzj
keyfdazj.jpy,dhzjjyjxdljdzj.ajoymtjcgdumyfdrd.lmcjdrpxdrdaecmyj
keu dMd.cmaajxdwqmjycgdmpyedrd.jry dL dFrqyjydur.darmp.yrvmphdrpx
ljymoqceq.dmpdyfjdjbyzjlj,dkqydxmxdpeyd.qoojjxdmpdjcmomymphdrpgyfmph
eidmlaezyrpoj 

Yfjdhrzxjpmphdhcetj.dRqhq.yjdrxlmyyjxdyedkjdfm. dFjduezjdyfjldufjp
frpxcmphdrdojzyrmpd.ajomj.deidazmlqcrdacrpydufmofdur.daem.epeq.dye
.eljdajeacj dFjdoeqcxdpeyd.rgdufjpdfjdfrxduezpdyfjldcr.y dOjzyrmpcg
fjdfrxdpeydlm..jxdyfjl dUfjzjdujzjdyfjgdvjay?d.eljymlj.dmpdepjdacroj,
.eljymlj.dmpdrpeyfjz dYfjd.arxjdur.dq.qrccgdyedkjdieqpxdmpdyfjd.lrcc
yeecd.fjx dUr.dmydceovjx?dEidoeqz.jdmydur.dceovjx dUfjzjdur.dyfjdvjg
vjay?d_Arzkcjq_,dmydur.dmpdyfjdxeezdeidoeqz.j!dYfjzjdur.dpeyfmph
eidtrcqjdyed.yjrc dUfedueqcxdfrtjdjbajoyjxdrdarzygdeidkrpxmy.,
eidr..r..mp.?d.qofdyfmph.dxmxdpeydfraajpdmpdLrxrljdcrdTmoelyj..j'.
ymlj dL dFrqyjyd.mhpmigmphdyfrydfjdfrxdimpm.fjxdumyfdfml,dyfjdecxdlrp
umyfxzju,dhzqlkcmphdyedyfjdcr.y dZjljlkjzmphdAemzey'.dqprooeqpyrkcj
mp.m.yjpojdepdyfjdieeyazmpy.dmpdyfjdiceujzdkjx.,dMd.ozqympmsjxdfml
przzeucgdr.dfjdhrtjdfm.djtmxjpoj dJmyfjzdfjdfrxdpeyfmphdyedxedumyf
yfjdozmljdezdfjdur.drdoep.qllryjdroyez d.qxxjpcg,dnq.ydr.dfjdur.
hemphdeqydeidyfjdxeez,drpdmxjrd.yzqovdlj dd"_Arzxep_dL dFrqyjy,"
Mdozmjx,d"kqydumccdgeqdajzlmydljdyedr.vdfmldepjdwqj.ymep?"

"Kqydojzyrmpcg,dlep.mjqz "

Yfq.djpoeqzrhjx,dMdyqzpjxdyedRqhq.yj 

"Ufjzjdxedgeqdvjjadgeqzdkeey.?"

"_.rodàdaramjz!_"dhzeucjxdyfjdecxdlrp d"Epdlgdijjy ddUfjzjdjc.j?"

"Kqydufjpdgeqdhedyedkjxdrydpmhfy?"

"Qpxjzdlgdkjx "

"Kqydufedocjrp.dyfjl?"

"Pekexg dUfgd.feqcxdyfjgdkjdocjrpjx?dM.dmydyfrydMdazeljprxjdlg.jci
epdyfjdizepydcmvjdrdgeqphdlrp?dEpd.qpxrgdMdujrzdyfjd.qpxrgdkeey.,
_kmjpdjpyjpxq_,dkqydeyfjzum.j--!"dfjd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. 

Md.feevdlgdfjrx,dxm.oeqzrhjx 

"Ujcc,dujcc,"d.rmxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj d"Ujdxedpeydrxtrpojdtjzg
lqof dQpxeqkyjxcgdujdrzjdfjcxdqadqpymcdujdhjydyfjdzjyqzpdorkcj
izeld.rpymrhe dFr.drpgdepjd.jjpdHmzrqx?dMpdtjzmygdyfrydepjdcrov.
aecmyjpj..!dMdfrtjdrdtjzgdheexdlmpxdyed.jpxdiezdfmldrpx--"

"Geqdumccdpeydfrtjdyed.jpxdirz,dL dcjdnqhj "

Yfjdwqmjydtemojd.yrzycjxdq. dHmzrqxdur.d.yrpxmphdeqy.mxjdceevmph
mpdyfzeqhfdyfjdeajpdumpxeu 

Fjdcjrajxdcmhfycgdmpyedyfjdzeel,drpxdrxtrpojxdyedyfjdyrkcj 

"FjzjdMdrl,dL dcjdnqhj,drydgeqzd.jztmoj dRoojaydlgdjboq.j.diezdpey
azj.jpymphdlg.jcid.eepjz "

"Peydrydrcc dPeydrydrcc,"d.rmxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj,dzryfjzdoepiq.jx 

"Eidoeqz.jdMdrldepcgdrdxjyjoymtj,"doepympqjxdyfjdeyfjz d"Mdvpeu
peyfmphdeidmpyjzzehryezmj. dUjzjdMdoepxqoymphdepj,dMd.feqcxdkj
mpocmpjxdyedxed.edumyfeqydrpdeajpdumpxeu dRpgdepjd.yrpxmphdeqy.mxj
orpd.edjr.mcgdfjrzdrccdyfrydar..j. d d d dKqydpedlryyjz "

L dFrqyjydicq.fjxdrphzmcg dYfjzjdur.djtmxjpycgdhemphdyedkjdpe
cetjdce.ydkjyujjpdyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdrpxdyfjdxjyjoymtjdmp
ofrzhjdeidyfjdor.j dYfjgdfrxdirccjpdieqcdeidjrofdeyfjzdrydyfj
.yrzy dAjzfra.dmpdrpgdjtjpydmydueqcxdfrtjdkjjpdlqofdyfjd.rlj dYe
Hmzrqx,drccdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj.dujzjdieec.,drpxdyedL dFrqyjydufe
yeevdfml.jcid.jzmeq.cg,dyfjdor.qrcdlrppjzdeidyfjdArzm.dxjyjoymtj
oeqcxdpeydirmcdyedhmtjdeiijpoj 

"_Jfdkmjp_,dL dHmzrqx,"d.rmxdyfjdlrhm.yzryjdzryfjzd.frzacg d"Umyfeqy
xeqkydgeqdfrtjdkjjpdjlacegmphdgeqzdymljdyedrdlrztjc?dGeqdfrtjdyfj
prlj.deidyfjdr..r..mp.diezdq.,dfrtjdgeqdpey?dRpxdrc.edyfjdazjom.j
.aeydufjzjdyfjgdimpxdyfjl.jctj.dpeu?"

Qpletjxdkgdyfm.dmzepg,dHmzrqxdzjacmjx:

"Mdvpeudrydcjr.ydufjzjdyfjgdfrtjdoeljdizel "

"_Oelljpy?_"

Hmzrqxdyeevdyued.lrccdeknjoy.dizeldfm.daeovjydrpxdcrmxdyfjldxeup
epdyfjdyrkcj dUjdozeuxjxdzeqpx dYfjdeknjoy.dujzjdtjzgd.mlacjdepj.:
yfjd.yqkdeidrdomhrzjyyj,drpxdrpdqpcmhfyjxdlryof dYfjdxjyjoymtj
ufjjcjxdzeqpxdepdAemzey 

"Ufrydxedgeqd.jjdyfjzj?"dfjdr.vjx 

Yfjzjdur.d.eljyfmphdrcle.ydkzqyrcdmpdfm.dyepj dMydlrxjdlgdofjjv.
icq.f dKqydAemzeydzjlrmpjxdqpletjx ddFjd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. 

"Rdomhrzjyyjdjpx,drpxdrdlryof "

"Rpxdufrydxej.dyfrydyjccdgeq?"

Aemzeyd.azjrxdeqydfm.dfrpx. 

"Mydyjcc.dlj--peyfmph "

"Rf!"d.rmxdHmzrqx,dmpdrd.rym.imjxdtemoj d"Geqdfrtjp'ydlrxjdr
.yqxgdeidyfj.jdyfmph. dYfry'.dpeydrpdezxmprzgdlryof--peydmpdyfm.
oeqpyzgdrydcjr.y dMy'.doellepdjpeqhfdmpd.eqyfdRljzmor dCqovmcgdmy'.
qpcmhfyjx dMdlmhfyp'ydfrtjdzjoehpmsjxdmydeyfjzum.j dJtmxjpycgdepj
eidyfjdljpdyfzjudrurgdfm.domhrzjyyjdjpx,drpxdcmydrpeyfjz,d.amccmph
epjdlryofdeqydeidyfjdkebdr.dfjdxmxd.e "

"Rpxdyfjdeyfjzdlryof?"dr.vjxdAemzey 

"Ufmofdlryof?"

"Yfjdepjdfjd_xmx_dcmhfydfm.domhrzjyyjdumyf dGeqdfrtjdieqpxdyfry
rc.e?"

"Pe "

"Ajzfra.dgeqdxmxp'yd.jrzofdtjzgdyfezeqhfcg "

"Peyd.jrzofdyfezeqhfcg--"dIezdrdleljpydmyd.jjljxdr.dyfeqhfdyfj
xjyjoymtjdujzjdhemphdyedkzjrvdeqydrphzmcg,dkqydumyfdrpdjiiezydfj
oepyzeccjxdfml.jci d"Md.jjdgeqdcetjdrdnevj,dL dAemzey dKqydmpdrpg
or.j,dlryofdezdpedlryof,dyfjdomhrzjyyjdjpxdueqcxdkjd.qiimomjpy dMy
m.drd.eqyfdRljzmorpdomhrzjyyjdumyfdcmwqezmojdajoyezrcdarajz "

Aemzeydkeujx dYfjdoellm..rzgd.aevj:

"Yfjdomhrzjyyjdjpxdrpxdlryofdlmhfydfrtjdkjcephjxdye
L dZjprqcx dZjljlkjz,dmydm.depcgdyuedgjrz.d.mpojdfjdzjyqzpjxdizel
.eqyfdRljzmor "

"Pe,"dzjacmjxdyfjdeyfjzdoepimxjpycg d"Mdfrtjdrczjrxgd.jrzofjxdrleph
yfjdjiijoy.deidL dZjprqcx dYfjdomhrzjyyj.dfjd.levjxdrpxdyfjdlryofj.
fjdq.jxdrzjdwqmyjdxmiijzjpy "

"Geqdxedpeydyfmpvdmydexx,"dr.vjxdAemzey,d"yfrydyfj.jd.yzrphjz.
.feqcxdoeljdqpazetmxjxdumyfdrdujraep,dumyfdhcetj.,dumyfdrd.arxj,
rpxdyfrydyfjgd.feqcxd.edoeptjpmjpycgdimpxdrccdyfj.jdyfmph.?"

Hmzrqxd.lmcjxdmpdrdzryfjzd.qajzmezdlrppjz 

"Qpxeqkyjxcgdmydm.d.yzrphj dMpxjjx,dumyfeqydyfjdyfjezgdyfrydMdfecx,
mydueqcxdkjdmpjbacmorkcj "

"Rfr!"d.rmxdL dFrqyjy d"Rpdrooelacmoj dRpdrooelacmojdumyfmpdyfj
feq.j!"

"Ezdeqy.mxjdmy,"d.rmxdHmzrqxdumyfdrdajoqcmrzd.lmcj 

"Kqyd.eljdepjdlq.ydfrtjdrxlmyyjxdyfjl?dUjdorppeydrcceudyfry,dkgdrp
qparzrccjcjxdamjojdeidheexdiezyqpj,dyfjgdieqpxdyfjdxeezdrnrzdiez
yfjldyedurcvdmp?"

"_X'rooezx_,dL dcjdnqhj dYfjdxeezdur.deajpjxdiezdyfjl,dkqydmydoeqcx
nq.ydr.djr.mcgdkjdeajpjxdizeldeqy.mxj--kgd.eljdepjdufedae..j..jx
rdvjg "

"Kqydufedxmxdae..j..drdvjg?"

Hmzrqxd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. 

"R.diezdyfry,dpedepjdufedae..j..j.depjdm.dhemphdyedrxlmydyfj
iroydmidyfjgdorpdfjcadmy dKqyd.jtjzrcdajeacjd_lmhfy_dfrtjdfrx
epj dL dNrovdZjprqcx,dyfjd.ep,diezdmp.yrpoj dMydm.dyzqjdyfrydfj
m.depdfm.durgdyed.eqyfdRljzmor,dkqydfjdlmhfydfrtjdce.ydyfjdvjgdez
frxdmyd.yecjpdizeldfml dYfjpdyfjzjdm.dyfjdhrzxjpjz--fjdfr.dkjjp
fjzjdlrpgdgjrz. dEpjdeidyfjdgeqphjzd.jztrpy.dlrgdfrtjdrdcetjz dMy
m.djr.gdyedyrvjdrpdmlazj..mepdeidrdvjgdrpxdfrtjdepjdoqy dYfjzjdrzj
lrpgdae..mkmcmymj. dYfjpdyfjzjdm.drpeyfjzdajz.epdufe,dMd.feqcxdnqxhj,
m.djbojjxmphcgdcmvjcgdyedfrtjd.qofdrdyfmphdmpdfjzdvjjamph "

"Ufedm.dyfry?"

"LrxrljdXrqkzjqmc,"d.rmxdyfjdxjyjoymtjdxzgcg 

"Jf,djf!"d.rmxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj,dfm.dirojdirccmphdrdcmyycj,d".edgeq
frtjdfjrzxdrkeqydyfry,dfrtjdgeq?"

"Mdfjrzdjtjzgyfmph,"d.rmxdHmzrqxdmlajzyqzkrkcg 

"Yfjzjdm.depjdyfmphdMdoeqcxd.ujrzdgeqdfrtjdpeydfjrzx,"d.rmx
L dFrqyjy,dxjcmhfyjxdyedkjdrkcjdyed.feud.qajzmezdvpeucjxhj,drpx
umyfeqydlezjdrxe,dfjdzjyrmcjxdyfjd.yezgdeidyfjdlg.yjzmeq.dtm.myez
yfjdpmhfydkjiezj dFjdrc.edyeqofjxdepdyfjdofjwqjdlrxjdeqydyed"Xqtjjp,"
rpxdimprccgdfrpxjxdHmzrqxdyfjdcjyyjzd.mhpjxd"Kjccr "

Hmzrqxdcm.yjpjxdmpd.mcjpoj,d.yqxmjxdyfjdcjyyjzdryyjpymtjcg,drpx
yfjpdfrpxjxdmydkrov 

"Rccdtjzgdmpyjzj.ymph,dL dcjdnqhj dKqydlgdyfjezgdzjlrmp.dqpriijoyjx "

"Rpxdgeqzdyfjezgdm.?"

"IezdyfjdleljpydMdazjijzdpeydyed.rg dZjljlkjz,dMdrldepcgdnq.y
kjhmppmphdlgdmptj.ymhrymep. "

"Yjccdljdepjdyfmph,dL dHmzrqx,"d.rmxdAemzeyd.qxxjpcg dd"Geqzdyfjezg
rcceu.diezdyfjdxeezdkjmphdeajpjx ddMydxej.dpeydjbacrmpdufgdmydur.
_cjiy_deajp dUfjpdyfjgdxjarzyjx,dueqcxdmydpeydfrtjdkjjpdpryqzrcdiez
yfjldyedoce.jdmydkjfmpxdyfjl dMidrd_.jzhjpydxjdtmccj_dfrxdofrpojxdye
oeljdqadyedyfjdfeq.j,dr.dm.d.eljymlj.dxepjdyed.jjdyfrydrccdm.dujcc,
yfjgdlmhfydfrtjdkjjpdxm.oetjzjxdrpxdetjzyrvjpdrcle.ydrydepoj "

"Krf!dYfjgdiezheydmy dRdlm.yrvj,dMdhzrpydgeq "

Yfjp,dyedlgd.qzazm.j,dAemzeydqyyjzjxdrcle.ydyfjd.rljduezx.dr.dfj
frxdqyyjzjxdyedKjbdyfjdazjtmeq.djtjpmph:

"_Mdxedpeydrhzjjdumyfdgeq _dYfjdxeezdkjmphdcjiydeajpdur.dyfjdzj.qcy
eidjmyfjzdxj.mhpdezdpjoj..myg,drpxdrpgdyfjezgdyfrydxej.dpeydrxlmy
yfrydiroydm.dkeqpxdyedazetjdtrmp "

Ujdrccdzjhrzxjxdyfjdcmyycjdlrpdumyfdrdheexdxjrcdeidr.yepm.fljpy dYfj
oepij..mepdeidmhpezrpojdxzrupdizeldfmldetjzdyfjdlryofdjpxdfrx,dM
yfeqhfy,dkjjpdkeqpxdyedfqlmcmryjdfml,dkqydfjzjdfjdur.d.jcid.rym.imjx
r.djtjz,dcrgmphdxeupdyfjdcrudyedyfjdhzjrydHmzrqxdumyfeqydrdyzjlez 

Yfjdxjyjoymtjdyum.yjxdfm.dleq.yrofj,djgjmphdlgdizmjpxdmpdrd.eljufry
krpyjzmphdir.fmep 

"Geqdxep'ydrhzjjdumyfdlj,djf?dUjcc,dufryd.yzmvj.dgeqdarzymoqcrzcg
rkeqydyfjdor.j dCjy'.dfjrzdgeqzdtmju. "

"Epjdyfmphdazj.jpy.dmy.jcidyedljdr.dkjmphd.mhpmimorpy ddYjccdlj,
L dHmzrqx,dxej.dpeyfmphd.yzmvjdgeqdr.dirlmcmrzdrkeqydyfm.dor.j?dM.
yfjzjdpeyfmphdmydzjlmpx.dgeqdei?"

"Irlmcmrz?dZjlmpx.dljdei?dMdorp'yd.rgdeii-frpx dMdxep'ydyfmpvd.e,
yfeqhf "

"Geqdrzjduzeph,"d.rmxdAemzeydwqmjycg d"Rdozmljdrcle.ydazjom.jcg
.mlmcrzdfr.dkjjpdoellmyyjxdkjiezj "

"Ufjp?dRpxdufjzj?"

"Rf,dyfry,dqpiezyqpryjcg,dMdorppeydiezdyfjdleljpydzjljlkjz--kqydM
.frccdxed.e dMdfrxdfeajxdgeqdlmhfydkjdrkcjdyedr..m.ydlj "

Hmzrqxd.pezyjxdmpozjxqceq.cg 

"Yfjzjdfrtjdkjjpdlrpgdriirmz.deidlr.vjxdljp!dMdorppeydzjljlkjz
yfjdxjyrmc.deidyfjldrcc dYfj.jdozmlj.drccdzj.jlkcjdjrofdeyfjzdlezj
ezdcj.. "

"Yfjzjdm.d.qofdrdyfmphdr.dyfjdmpxmtmxqrcdyeqof "ddAemzeyd.qxxjpcg
r..qljxdfm.dcjoyqzmphdlrppjz,drpxdrxxzj..jxdq.doeccjoymtjcg d"M
rld.ajrvmphdyedgeqdpeudeidyfjda.gofecehgdeidozmlj dL dHmzrqx
vpeu.dwqmyjdujccdyfrydjrofdozmlmprcdfr.dfm.darzymoqcrzdljyfex,
rpxdyfrydyfjdaecmoj,dufjpdorccjxdmpdyedmptj.ymhryj--.rgdrdor.jdei
kqzhcrzg--orpdeiyjpdlrvjdrd.fzjuxdhqj..drydyfjdeiijpxjz,d.mlacgdkg
yfjdajoqcmrzdljyfexdfjdfr.djlacegjx dd(Nraadueqcxdyjccdgeqdyfjd.rlj,
Fr.ymph. )dLrpdm.drpdqpezmhmprcdrpmlrc dQpezmhmprcdumyfmpdyfjdcrudmp
fm.dxrmcgdzj.ajoyrkcjdcmij,djwqrccgdqpezmhmprcdeqy.mxjdyfjdcru dMi
rdlrpdoellmy.drdozmlj,drpgdeyfjzdozmljdfjdoellmy.dumccdzj.jlkcjdmy
oce.jcg dYfjdJphcm.fdlqzxjzjzdufedxm.ae.jxdeidfm.dumtj.dmpd.qooj..mep
kgdxzeupmphdyfjldmpdyfjmzdkryf.dur.drdor.jdmpdaempy dFrxdfjdtrzmjx
fm.dljyfex.,dfjdlmhfydfrtjdj.orajxdxjyjoymepdyedyfm.dxrg dKqydfj
ekjgjxdyfjdoellepdxmoyryj.deidfqlrpdpryqzj,drzhqmphdyfrydufrydfrx
epojd.qoojjxjxdueqcxd.qoojjxdrhrmp,drpxdfjdarmxdyfjdajprcygdeidfm.
crovdeidezmhmprcmyg "

"Rpxdyfjdaempydeidrccdyfm.?"d.pjjzjxdHmzrqx 

"Yfrydufjpdgeqdfrtjdyuedozmlj.dazjom.jcgd.mlmcrzdmpdxj.mhpdrpx
jbjoqymep,dgeqdimpxdyfjd.rljdkzrmpdkjfmpxdyfjldkeyf dMdrldceevmph
iezdyfrydkzrmp,dL dHmzrqx--rpxdMd.frccdimpxdmy dFjzjdujdfrtjdr
yzqjdocqj--rda.gofecehmorcdocqj dGeqdlrgdvpeudrccdrkeqydomhrzjyyj.
rpxdlryofdjpx.,dL dHmzrqx,dkqydM,dFjzoqcjdAemzey,dvpeudyfjdlmpx
eidlrp!"dRpxdyfjdzmxmoqceq.dcmyycjdijcceudyraajxdfm.diezjfjrx
umyfdjlafr.m. 

Hmzrqxdzjlrmpjxd.mphqcrzcgdqpmlazj..jx 

"Iezdgeqzdhqmxrpoj,"doepympqjxdAemzey,d"Mdumccdrc.edrxtm.jdgeq
eidepjdiroydufmofdlmhfydirmcdyedkjdkzeqhfydyedgeqzdpeymoj dYfj
uzm.yduryofdeidLrxrljdZjprqcx,depdyfjdxrgdiecceumphdyfjdyzrhjxg,
frxdhrmpjxdyuedfeqz. dMydlmhfydmpyjzj.ydgeqdyedjbrlmpjdmy "

Hmzrqxd.yrzjx 

"Ajzfra.dmydur.dmpdyfjdfrkmydeidhrmpmph?"

"R.drdlryyjzdeidiroy,dMdrldyecxdmydxmx "

"_Jfdkmjp_,dyfjp!"

"Rccdyfjd.rlj,dyuedfeqz.dm.drdheexdxjrc,"d.rmxdAemzeyd.eiycg d"Yfjp
yfjzjdm.dyfjdlryyjzdeidyfjdieeyazmpy.dmpdyfjdiceujz-kjx "

Fjdpexxjxdfm.dfjrxdyeurzx.dyfjdeajpdumpxeu ddHmzrqxdyeevdyuedjrhjz
.yzmxj.,drpxdceevjxdeqy 

"Yfm.dkjxdfjzj?"

"Gj. "

"KqydMd.jjdpedieeyazmpy.?"

"Pe,"d.rmxdAemzey,d.yzrmhfyjpmphdrdcmyycjdamcjdeidkeev.depdr
yrkcj d"Yfjzjdrzjdpepj "

Iezdrdleljpydrpdrcle.ydlqzxjzeq.dzrhjdek.oqzjxdHmzrqx'.diroj dFjdyeev
yued.yzmxj.dyeurzx.dfm.dyezljpyez,dkqydrydyfrydleljpydyfjd_.rcep_
xeezdur.deajpjx,drpxdLrzofrqxdrppeqpojx 

"L d.yepez,dyfjd.jozjyrzg,dfr.dnq.ydrzzmtjxdizeldJphcrpx dLrg
fjdjpyjz?"




10

Hrkzmjcd.yepez


Yfjdlrpdufedjpyjzjxdyfjdzeeldur.drd.yzmvmphdimhqzj ddTjzgdyrcc,
umyfdrdujccdvpmydryfcjymodizrlj,drpxdrdxjjacgdkzepsjxdirojdrpx
pjov,dfjdxelmpryjxdyfjdr..jlkcg ddJtjpdHmzrqxd.jjljxdrprjlmodkj.mxj
fml dUfjpdMdvpjudfmldkjyyjzdMdzjrcmsjxdyfrydHrkzmjcd.yepezdur.dwqmyj
rpdqpq.qrcdajz.eprcmyg dJphcm.fdkgdkmzyf,dfjdfrxdvpeovjxdrkeqydrcc
etjzdyfjduezcx dFjdfrxd.feydkmhdhrljdmpdRizmor,dyzrtjccjxdmpdVezjr,
zrpofjxdmpdOrcmiezpmr,drpxdyzrxjxdmpdyfjd.eqyfd.jrdM.crpx. dFjdfrx
kjjpd.jozjyrzgdyedrdPjudGezvdzrmcurgdlrhpryj,drpxdfrxd.ajpydrdgjrz
jporlajxdmpdyfjdxj.jzydumyfdrdizmjpxcgdyzmkjdeidRzrk. 

Fm.dqpjzzmphdjgjdamovjxdeqydL dFrqyjy 

"Yfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdmpdofrzhjdeidyfjdor.j?ddAcjr.jxdyedljjy
geq,dL dcjdnqhj dYfm.dm.drdyjzzmkcjdkq.mpj.. dFeu'.dLz. dZjprqcx?dM.
.fjdkjrzmphdqadirmzcgdujcc?dMydlq.ydfrtjdkjjpdrpdruiqcd.feovdyedfjz "

"Yjzzmkcj,dyjzzmkcj,"d.rmxdL dFrqyjy d"Ajzlmydljdyedmpyzexqoj
L dKjb--eqzdoellm..rzgdeidaecmoj,dL ddHmzrqxdeidyfjd.ûzjyé dYfm.
hjpycjlrpdm.dL dFjzoqcjdAemzey dL dZjprqcxd.jpydiezdfml,dkqydfj
rzzmtjxdyeedcryjdyedxedrpgyfmphdyedrtjzydyfjdyzrhjxg dRdizmjpxdeidL 
Aemzey'.,dOrayrmpdFr.ymph. "

.yepezdceevjxdrydAemzeydumyfd.eljdmpyjzj.y 

".jpydiezdgeq,dxmxdfj?"

"Geqdxmxdpeydvpeu,dyfjp,dyfrydL dZjprqcxdoepyjlacryjxdorccmphdmp
rdxjyjoymtj?"dmpyjzae.jxdL dKjb 

"Pe,dMdxmxp'y dKqydmydxej.p'yd.qzazm.jdljdrdkmy "

"Ufg?"

"Kjorq.jdyfjdecxdlrpdur.dzryycjx!dMdxep'ydvpeudufrydmydur.drcc
rkeqy dFjdxmxp'ydoepimxjdmpdlj dUjdujzjp'ydepdyfe.jdyjzl. dKqy
zryycjxdfjdur.--rpxdkrxcg!"

"F'l!"d.rmxdL dFrqyjy d"Kqydgeqdfrtjdpedpeymepdeidyfjdorq.j?"

"Yfry'.dufrydMd.rmx,d.mz "

"Geqdumccdarzxepdlj,dL d.yepez,dkqydujdlq.ydkjhmpdumyfdrdiju
iezlrcmymj. dGeqzdprlj?"

"Hrkzmjcd.yepez "

"Feudcephdrhedur.dmydyfrydgeqdkjorljd.jozjyrzgdyedL dZjprqcx?"

"Rkeqydyuedgjrz.drhe,dufjpdfjdimz.ydrzzmtjxdizeld.eqyfdRljzmor dM
ljydfmldyfzeqhfdrdlqyqrcdizmjpx,drpxdfjdeiijzjxdljdyfjdae.y dR
yfqpxjzmphdheexdke..dfjdur.dyee "

"Xmxdfjdyrcvdyedgeqdlqofdrkeqydfm.dcmijdmpd.eqyfdRljzmor?"

"Gj.,drdheexdkmy "

"Xedgeqdvpeudmidfjdur.djtjzdmpd.rpymrhe?"

".jtjzrcdymlj.,dMdkjcmjtj "

"Fjdpjtjzdljpymepjxdrpgd.ajomrcdmpomxjpydyfrydeooqzzjx
yfjzj--rpgyfmphdyfrydlmhfydfrtjdazetevjxd.eljdtjpxjyyrdrhrmp.ydfml?"

"Pjtjz "

"Xmxdfjd.ajrvdeidrpgd.jozjydyfrydfjdfrxdrowqmzjxdufmc.yd.eneqzpmph
yfjzj?"

"Pe "

"Xmxdfjdjtjzd.rgdrpgyfmphdrydrccdrkeqydrd.jozjy?"

"PeydyfrydMdorpdzjljlkjz dKqy,diezdrccdyfry,dyfjzjd_ur._drdlg.yjzg
rkeqydfml dM'tjdpjtjzdfjrzxdfmld.ajrvdeidfm.dkegfeexdiezdmp.yrpoj,
ezdeidrpgdmpomxjpydazmezdyedfm.drzzmtrcdmpd.eqyfdRljzmor dFjdur.dr
IzjpofdOrprxmrpdkgdkmzyf,dMdkjcmjtj,dkqydM'tjdpjtjzdfjrzxdfmld.ajrv
eidfm.dcmijdmpdOrprxr dFjdoeqcxd.fqydqadcmvjdrdocrldmidfjdcmvjx "

".e,dr.dirzdr.dgeqdvpeu,dfjdfrxdpedjpjlmj.,drpxdgeqdorpdhmtjdq.dpe
ocqjdr.dyedrpgd.jozjydyedekyrmpdae..j..mepdeidufmofdfjdlmhfydfrtj
kjjpdlqzxjzjx?"

"Yfry'.d.e "

"L d.yepez,dfrtjdgeqdjtjzdfjrzxdyfjdprljdeidXqtjjpdmpdoeppjoymep
umyfdL dZjprqcx?"

"Xqtjjp dXqtjjp "dFjdyzmjxdyfjdprljdetjzdyfeqhfyiqccg dd"Mdxep'y
yfmpvdMdfrtj dRpxdgjydmyd.jjl.dirlmcmrz "

"Xedgeqdvpeudrdcrxg,drdizmjpxdeidL dZjprqcx'.dufe.jdOfzm.ymrpdprlj
m.dKjccr?"

RhrmpdLz d.yepezd.feevdfm.dfjrx 

"KjccrdXqtjjp?dM.dyfrydyfjdiqccdprlj?dMy'.doqzmeq.!ddM'ld.qzjdM
vpeudmy dKqydiezdyfjdleljpydMdorp'ydzjljlkjzdmpdufrydoeppjoymep "

Yfjdlrhm.yzryjdoeqhfjx 

"Geqdqpxjz.yrpx,dL d.yepez--yfjdor.jdm.dcmvjdyfm. dd_Yfjzjdlq.ydkjdpe
zj.jztrymep. _dGeqdlmhfy,dajzfra.,dyfzeqhfdrdijjcmphdeidoep.mxjzrymep
iezdLrxrljdZjprqcx--iezdufel,dMdhryfjz,dgeqdfrtjdrdhzjrydj.yjjl
rpxdriijoymep,dgeqdlmhfy--_jpimp!_"d.rmxdL dFrqyjydhjyymphdzryfjz
ymjxdqadmpdfm.d.jpyjpoj,d"yfjzjdlq.ydrk.ecqyjcgdkjdpedzj.jztrymep. "

.yepezd.yrzjxdrydfml,drdxrupmphdcmhfydeidoelazjfjp.mepdmpdfm.djgj. 

"Mdxep'ydwqmyjdhjydgeq,"dfjd.rmxdhjpycg d"Ufjzjdxej.dLz. dZjprqcx
oeljdmp?dM'tjdrpdmlljp.jdzj.ajoydrpxdriijoymepdiezdyfrydcrxg;
.fj'.drdtjzgduepxjziqcdrpxdqpq.qrcdygaj,dkqydMdxep'ydwqmyjd.jjdfeu
lgdzj.jztrymep.,dezdeyfjzum.j,doeqcxdriijoydfjz?"

"Peydmidyfm.dKjccrdXqtjjpd.feqcxdazetjdyedfrtjdkjjpd.eljyfmphdlezj
yfrpdrdizmjpxdyedfjzdfq.krpx?"

"Rf!"d.rmxd.yepez d"Mdhjydgeqdpeu dKqydM'ccdkjydlgdkeyyeldxeccrzdyfry
geq'zjduzeph dYfjdecxdlrpdpjtjzd.edlqofdr.dceevjxdrydrdajyymoery dFj
nq.ydrxezjxdfm.deupdumij dYfjgdujzjdyfjdle.ydxjteyjxdoeqacjdMdvpeu "

L dFrqyjyd.feevdfm.dfjrxdhjpycg 

"L d.yepez,dujdfecxdrk.ecqyjdazeei--rdcetjdcjyyjzduzmyyjpdkgdyfm.
KjccrdyedL dZjprqcx,drooq.mphdfmldeidfrtmphdymzjxdeidfjz dLezjetjz,
ujdfrtjdiqzyfjzdazeeidyfry,drydyfjdymljdeidfm.dxjryf,dfjdur.dorzzgmph
epdrpdmpyzmhqjdumyfdrdIzjpofuelrp,drdLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc,dufedzjpy.
yfjdrxnempmphdTmccr dRpxdyfm.dm.dyfjdlrpdufe,drooezxmphdyedgeq,
pjtjzdceevjxdrydrdajyymoery!"

Yfjd.jozjyrzg'.djgj.dprzzeujx 

"Fecxdep,dL dcjdnqhj dGeq'zjdkrzvmphdqadyfjduzephdyzjj dMdvpjudArqc
Zjprqcx dUfrydgeq'tjdnq.ydkjjpd.rgmphdm.dqyyjzcgdmlae..mkcj dYfjzj'.
.eljdeyfjzdjbacrprymep "

Yfjdlrhm.yzryjd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. 

"Ufrydeyfjzdjbacrprymepdoeqcxdyfjzjdkj?"

"Ufrydcjrx.dgeqdyedyfmpvdmydur.drdcetjdriirmz?"

"LrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdur.dmpdyfjdfrkmydeidtm.mymphdfmldfjzjdmpdyfj
jtjpmph. dRc.e,d.mpojdL dZjprqcxdorljdyedyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj,dLrxrlj
Xrqkzjqmcdfr.darmxdcrzhjd.ql.deidlepjgdmpyedyfjdkrpvdmpdpeyj. dMp
rcc,dyfjdrleqpydyeyrc.dieqzdyfeq.rpxdaeqpx.deidgeqzdJphcm.fdlepjg "

"Mdhqj..dyfry'.dzmhfy,"d.rmxd.yepezdwqmjycg d"Mdyzrp.lmyyjxdfml
yfe.jd.ql.drydfm.dzjwqj.y dKqydmydur.p'ydrpdmpyzmhqj "

"Jf!d_lepdXmjq!_dUfrydjc.jdoeqcxdmydkj?"

"_Kcrovlrmc_,"d.rmxd.yepezd.frzacg,dkzmphmphdxeupdfm.dfrpxdumyfdr
.crldepdyfjdyrkcj d"Yfry'.dufrydmydur. "

"Rf!dTemcàdqpjdmxéj!"dozmjxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj,d.frvjpdmpd.amyj
eidfml.jci 

"Kcrovlrmc,"dzjajryjxd.yepez d"Yfjdecxdlrpdur.dkjmphdkcjx--rpxdry
rdheexdzryjdyee dIeqzdyfeq.rpxdmpdrdoeqacjdeidlepyf. dUfju!dMdyecx
geqdnq.ydpeudyfjzjdur.drdlg.yjzgdrkeqydZjprqcx dJtmxjpycgdyfm.
LrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdvpjudjpeqhfdeidmydyedaqydyfjd.ozju.dep "

"Mydm.dae..mkcj,"dyfjdoellm..rzgdozmjxdjbomyjxcg dd"Xjomxjxcg,
mydm.dae..mkcj "

"Ae..mkcj?"dzerzjxd.yepez d"My'.dojzyrmp!dYjccdlj,dfrtjdgeqdr.vjx
Lz. dZjprqcxdrkeqydyfm.dcetjdriirmzd.yqpydeidgeqz.?"

"Pe,dlep.mjqz dUjdxmxdpeydum.fdyedeoor.mepdfjzdrpgdxm.yzj..dmidmy
oeqcxdzjr.eprkcgdkjdrtemxjx "

"Xm.yzj..?dUfg,d.fj'xdcrqhfdmpdgeqzdiroj dMdyjccdgeq,d.fjdrpx
Zjprqcxdujzjdrdoeqacjdmpdrdfqpxzjx "

"Rf,dyfrydzjlmpx.dljdeidrpeyfjzdaempy,"d.rmxdL ddFrqyjy d"Xmx
L dZjprqcxdyrvjdgeqdmpyedfm.doepimxjpojdrydrccdr.dyedyfjdxm.ae.mymep.
eidfm.dumcc?"

"Mdvpeudrccdrkeqydmy--yeevdmydyedyfjdcrugjzdiezdfmldriyjzdfj'xdxzrup
mydeqy dMdorpdhmtjdgeqdyfjdprljdeidfm.d.ecmomyez.dmidgeqdurpydye
.jjdmy dYfjg'tjdheydmydyfjzj ddWqmyjd.mlacj dFrcidmpdyzq.ydyedfm.
umijdiezdfjzdcmijymlj,dyfjdeyfjzdfrcidyedfm.d.ep dRdijudcjhromj. dM
zryfjzdyfmpvdfjdcjiydljdrdyfeq.rpx "

"Ufjpdur.dyfm.dumccdxzrupdqa?"

"Ef,drkeqydrdgjrzdrpxdrdfrcidrhe "

"Ueqcxdmyd.qzazm.jdgeqdtjzgdlqof,dL d.yepez,dyedfjrzdyfrydL dZjprqcx
frxdlrxjdrpeyfjzdumcc,dcj..dyfrpdrdiezypmhfydrhe?"

.yepezdur.dektmeq.cgdtjzgdlqofd.qzazm.jx 

"M'xdpedmxjrdeidmy dUfry'.dmydcmvj?"

"Yfjdufecjdeidfm.dtr.ydiezyqpjdm.dcjiydqpzj.jztjxcgdyedfm.
umij dYfjzjdm.dpedljpymepdeidfm.d.ep "

Lz d.yepezdhrtjdtjpydyedrdazecephjxdufm.ycj 

"Mdorccdyfrydzryfjzdzeqhfdepdyfjdcrx dFm.dleyfjzdrxezj.dfml,dei
oeqz.j,dkqydyedyfjduezcxdrydcrzhjdmydceev.dzryfjzdcmvjdrdurpydei
oepimxjpojdepdfm.diryfjz'.darzy ddMydumccdkjdzryfjzdhrccmphdyedfm.
azmxj d.ymcc,dmydrccdhej.dyedazetjdufrydMdyecxdgeq,dyfrydZjprqcx
rpxdfm.dumijdujzjdepdimz.ydzryjdyjzl. "

"Wqmyjd.e,dwqmyjd.e,"d.rmxdL dFrqyjy d"Mydm.dae..mkcjdujd.frcc
frtjdyedzjtm.jdeqzdmxjr.depd.jtjzrcdaempy. dUjdfrtj,deidoeqz.j,
orkcjxdyed.rpymrhe,drpxdrzjdjbajoymphdrdzjacgdizeldyfjzjdrpg
lmpqyj dMpdrccdae..mkmcmyg,djtjzgyfmphdumccdyfjpdkjdajzijoycg
ocjrzdrpxd.yzrmhfyiezurzx ddEpdyfjdeyfjzdfrpx,dmidgeqzd.qhhj.ymep
eidkcrovlrmcdm.dyzqj,dLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdeqhfydyedkjdrkcjdyedhmtjdq.
trcqrkcjdmpiezlrymep "

Aemzeydmpyjznjoyjxdrdzjlrzv:

"L d.yepez,dyfjdJphcm.fdofrqiijqz,dLr.yjz.,dfrxdfjdkjjpdcephdumyf
L dZjprqcx?"

"Etjzdrdgjrz?"

"Frtjdgeqdrpgdmxjrdufjyfjzdfjdfr.djtjzdkjjpdmpd.eqyfdRljzmor?"

"M'ldwqmyjd.qzjdfjdfr.p'y dKjiezjdoelmphdyedLz ddZjprqcx,dfjdfrxdkjjp
iezdlrpgdgjrz.dumyfd.eljdajeacjdmpdHceqoj.yjz.fmzjdufeldMdvpeudujcc "

"Mpdiroy,dgeqdorpdrp.ujzdiezdfmldr.dkjmphdrketjd.q.amomep?"

"Rk.ecqyjcg "

Aemzeyd.jjljxd.eljufrydozj.y-irccjp 

Ljrpufmcjdyfjdlrhm.yzryjdfrxd.qllepjxdLrzofrqx 

"Lgdoelacmljpy.dyedLrxrljdZjprqcx,drpxdMd.feqcxdkjdhcrxdyed.ajrv
yedfjzdiezdrdijudlmpqyj. dKjhdfjzdpeydyedxm.yqzkdfjz.jci dMdumcc
urmydqaepdfjzdqa.yrmz. "

Lrzofrqxd.rcqyjxdrpxdxm.raajrzjx 

Ujdurmyjxd.eljdlmpqyj.,drpxdyfjp,dyedeqzd.qzazm.j,dyfjdxeezdeajpjx,
rpxdLz. dZjprqcx,dxjryfcgdarcjdmpdfjzdfjrtgdleqzpmph,djpyjzjx
yfjdzeel 

L dFrqyjydkzeqhfydiezurzxdrdofrmz,dqyyjzmphdtmhezeq.dazeyj.yrymep.,
rpxd.fjdyfrpvjxdfmldumyfdrd.lmcj d.yepezdur.dfecxmphdepjdfrpx
eidfjz.dmpdfm.dumyfdrpdjcewqjpyd.glaryfg dUezx.djtmxjpycgdirmcjx
fml dLz. dZjprqcxdyqzpjxdyedL dFrqyjy 

"Geqdum.fjxdyedr.vdljd.eljyfmph,dL dcjdnqhj "

"Umyfdgeqzdajzlm..mep,dlrxrlj dMdqpxjz.yrpxdgeqzdfq.krpxdur.dr
IzjpofdOrprxmrpdkgdkmzyf dOrpdgeqdyjccdljdrpgyfmphdeidfm.dgeqyf,
ezdqakzmphmph?"

.fjd.feevdfjzdfjrx 

"Lgdfq.krpxdur.drcurg.dtjzgdzjymojpydrkeqydfml.jci,dlep.mjqz dFj
orljdizeldyfjdPezyfdUj.y,dMdvpeu,dkqydMdirpogdyfrydfjdfrxdrpdqpfraag
ofmcxfeex,diezdfjdpjtjzdorzjxdyed.ajrvdeidyfrydymlj dEqzdcmijdur.
cmtjxdjpymzjcgdmpdyfjdazj.jpydrpxdyfjdiqyqzj "

"Ur.dyfjzjdrpgdlg.yjzgdmpdfm.dar.ydcmij?"

Lz. dZjprqcxd.lmcjxdrdcmyycj,drpxd.feevdfjzdfjrx 

"Peyfmphd.edzelrpymo,dMdrld.qzj,dL dcjdnqhj "

L dFrqyjydrc.ed.lmcjx 

"Yzqj,dujdlq.ydpeydajzlmydeqz.jctj.dyedhjydljcexzrlrymo ddYfjzjdm.
epjdyfmphdlezj--"dfjdfj.myryjx 

.yepezdkzevjdmpdmlajyqeq.cg:

"Yfjg'tjdheydrpdjbyzrezxmprzgdmxjrdmpyedyfjmzdfjrx.
Lz. dZjprqcx dYfjgdroyqrccgdirpogdyfrydLz dZjprqcxdur.dorzzgmphdep
rpdmpyzmhqjdumyfdrdLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdufe,dmyd.jjl.,dcmtj.dpjbydxeez "

Yfjd.orzcjydoeceqzdicrljxdmpyedLz. dZjprqcx'.dofjjv. d.fjdicqphdfjz
fjrxdqa,dyfjpdkmydfjzdcma,dfjzdirojdwqmtjzmph d.yepezd.yeexdceevmph
rydfjzdmpdr.yepm.fljpy,dkqydL dKjbdcjrpjxdiezurzxdrpxd.rmxdhjpycg:
"Ujdzjhzjydyedorq.jdgeqdarmp,dlrxrlj,dkqydfrtjdgeqdrpgdzjr.epdye
kjcmjtjdyfrydLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdur.dgeqzdfq.krpx'.dlm.yzj..?"

Umyfdrd.ekdeidrphqm.f,dLz. dZjprqcxdkqzmjxdfjzdirojdmpdfjzdfrpx. dFjz
.feqcxjz.dfjrtjxdoeptqc.mtjcg dRydcr.yd.fjdcmiyjxdfjzdfjrx,drpx
.rmxdkzevjpcg:

".fjdlrgdfrtjdkjjp "

Pjtjz,dmpdrccdlgdcmij,dfrtjdMd.jjpdrpgyfmphdyedjwqrcdyfjdkcrpv
rlrsjljpydepd.yepez'.diroj dFjdur.dyfezeqhfcgdyrvjpdrkrov 




11

NrovdZjprqcx


Ufrydyfjdpjbydxjtjcealjpydeidyfjdoeptjz.rymepdueqcxdfrtjdkjjp,dM
orppeyd.rg,diezdrydyfrydleljpydyfjdxeezdur.dyfzeupdtmecjpycgdeajp,
rpxdrdyrccdgeqphdlrpd.yzexjdmpyedyfjdzeel 

Nq.ydiezdrdleljpydMdfrxdyfjdqporppgd.jp.rymepdyfrydyfjdxjrxdlrp
frxdoeljdyedcmijdrhrmp dYfjpdMdzjrcmsjxdyfrydyfm.dxrzvdfjrxdur.
qpyeqofjxdumyfdhzjg,drpxdyfry,dmpdaempydeidiroy,dmydur.drdljzj
kegdufedpeudkqz.ydmpdrlephdq.dumyfd.edcmyycjdojzjlepg dFjdujpy
.yzrmhfydyedLz. dZjprqcxdumyfdrpdmlajyqe.mygdyfrydyeevdpedfjjxdei
yfjdazj.jpojdeideyfjz. 

"Leyfjz!"

"Nrov!"dUmyfdrdozgd.fjdiecxjxdfmldmpdfjzdrzl. d"Lgdxjrzj.y!dKqydufry
kzmph.dgeqdfjzj?dGeqdujzjdyed.rmcdepdyfjd_Rpsezr_dizeldOfjzkeqzh
yuedxrg.drhe?"dYfjp,d.qxxjpcgdzjorccmphdyedfjz.jcidyfjdazj.jpojdei
eyfjz.,d.fjdyqzpjxdumyfdrdojzyrmpdxmhpmyg,d"Lgd.ep,dlj..mjqz. "

"Rfr!"d.rmxdL dFrqyjy,drovpeucjxhmphdyfjdgeqphdlrp'.dkeu d".edgeq
xmxdpeyd.rmcdepdyfjd_Rpsezr_?"

"Pe,dlep.mjqz dR.dMdur.drkeqydyedjbacrmp,dyfjd_Rpsezr_dur.dxjyrmpjx
yujpyg-ieqzdfeqz.dyfzeqhfdjphmpjdyzeqkcj dMd.feqcxdfrtjd.rmcjx
cr.ydpmhfydmp.yjrxdeidyfjdpmhfydkjiezj,dkqy,dfraajpmphdyedkqgdrp
jtjpmphdarajz,dMd.rudmpdmydrpdrooeqpydeidyfj--yfjdruiqcdyzrhjxg
yfrydfrxdkjirccjpdq.--"dFm.dtemojdkzevjdrpxdyfjdyjrz.dorljdmpye
fm.djgj. d"Lgdaeezdiryfjz--lgdaeez,daeez,diryfjz "

.yrzmphdrydfmldcmvjdepjdmpdrdxzjrl,dLz. dZjprqcxdzjajryjx:d".edgeq
xmxdpeyd.rmc?"dRpxdyfjp,dumyfdrdhj.yqzjdeidmpimpmyjdujrzmpj..,d.fj
lqzlqzjxdr.dyfeqhfdyedfjz.jci,d"Riyjzdrcc,dmydxej.dpeydlryyjz--peu "

".mydxeup,dL dZjprqcx,dMdkjhdeidgeq,"d.rmxdL ddFrqyjy,dmpxmorymph
rdofrmz d"Lgd.glaryfgdiezdgeqdm.dazeieqpx dMydlq.ydfrtjdkjjpdr
yjzzmkcjd.feovdyedgeqdyedcjrzpdyfjdpju.dr.dgeqdxmx dFeujtjz,dmydm.
le.ydiezyqpryjdyfrydgeqdujzjdazjtjpyjxdizeld.rmcmph dMdrldmpdfeaj.
yfrydgeqdlrgdkjdrkcjdyedhmtjdq.dnq.ydyfjdmpiezlrymepdujdpjjxdye
ocjrzdqadyfm.dlg.yjzg "

"Mdrldrydgeqzdxm.ae.rc,dL dcjdnqhj dR.vdljdrpgdwqj.ymep.dgeqdacjr.j "

"Yedkjhmpdumyf,dMdqpxjz.yrpxdyfrydyfm.dneqzpjgdur.dkjmphdqpxjzyrvjp
rydgeqzdiryfjz'.dzjwqj.y?"

"Wqmyjd.e,dL dcjdnqhj dMdzjojmtjxdrdyjcjhzrldkmxxmphdljdyedazeojjx
umyfeqydxjcrgdyedKqjpe.dRgzj.,drpxdizeldyfjpojdtmrdyfjdRpxj.dye
Trcarzrm.edrpxdepdyed.rpymrhe "

"Rf dRpxdyfjdeknjoydeidyfm.dneqzpjg?"

"Mdfrtjdpedmxjr,dL dcjdnqhj "

"Ufry?"

"Pe d.jj,dfjzjdm.dyfjdyjcjhzrl "

Yfjdlrhm.yzryjdyeevdmydrpxdzjrxdmydrceqx 

"'AzeojjxdmlljxmryjcgdOfjzkeqzhdjlkrzvd_Rpsezr_d.rmcmphdyepmhfy
Kqjpe.dRgzj. dQcymlryjdxj.ymprymepd.rpymrhe ddIqzyfjzdmp.yzqoymep.
umccdrurmydgeqdKqjpe.dRgzj. ddXedpeydirmc dLryyjzdm.deidqyle.y
mlaezyrpoj dZjprqcx 'ddRpxdyfjzjdfrxdkjjpdpedazjtmeq.doezzj.aepxjpoj
epdyfjdlryyjz?"

NrovdZjprqcxd.feevdfm.dfjrx 

"Yfrydm.dyfjdepcgdmpymlrymepdeidrpgdvmpx dMdvpju,deidoeqz.j,dyfry
lgdiryfjz,dfrtmphdcmtjxd.edcephdeqydyfjzj,dfrxdpjoj..rzmcgdlrpg
mpyjzj.y.dmpd.eqyfdRljzmor dKqydfjdfrxdpjtjzdleeyjxdrpgd.qhhj.ymep
eid.jpxmphdljdeqy "

"Geqdfrtj,deidoeqz.j,dkjjpdrdheexdxjrcdmpd.eqyfdRljzmor,dL dZjprqcx?"

"Mdur.dyfjzjdr.drdofmcx dKqydMdur.djxqoryjxdmpdJphcrpx,drpxd.ajpy
le.ydeidlgdfecmxrg.dmpdyfrydoeqpyzg,d.edMdzjrccgdvpeudirzdcj..dei
.eqyfdRljzmordyfrpdlmhfydkjd.qaae.jx dGeqd.jj,dyfjdurzdkzevjdeqy
ufjpdMdur.d.jtjpyjjp "

"Geqd.jztjxdmpdyfjdJphcm.fdIcgmphdOeza.,dxmxdgeqdpey?"

"Gj.,dL dcjdnqhj "

L dFrqyjydpexxjxdfm.dfjrx,drpxdazeojjxjxdumyfdfm.dmpwqmzmj.drceph
yfj,dkgdpeu,dujcc-vpeupdcmpj. dMpdzj.aep.j,dNrovdZjprqcxdxjocrzjx
xjimpmyjcgdyfrydfjdvpjudpeyfmphdeidrpgdjplmygdfm.diryfjzdlmhfydfrtj
mpoqzzjxdmpdyfjdomygdeid.rpymrhe,dezdjc.jufjzjdmpdyfjd.eqyfdRljzmorp
oepympjpy,dyfrydfjdfrxdpeymojxdpedofrphjdmpdfm.diryfjz'.dlrppjzdei
cryj,drpxdyfrydfjdfrxdpjtjzdfjrzxdfmldzjijzdyedrd.jozjy dFjdfrx
zjhrzxjxdyfjdlm..mepdyed.eqyfdRljzmordr.doeppjoyjxdumyfdkq.mpj..
mpyjzj.y. 

R.dL dFrqyjydarq.jxdiezdrdlmpqyj,dyfjdwqmjydtemojdeidHmzrqxdkzevjdmp 

"Md.feqcxdcmvjdyedaqydrdijudwqj.ymep.depdlgdeupdrooeqpy,dL dcj
nqxhj "

"Kgdrccdljrp.,dL dHmzrqx,dmidgeqdum.f,"d.rmxdyfjdlrhm.yzryjdoecxcg 

Hmzrqxdjxhjxdfm.dofrmzdrdcmyycjdpjrzjzdyedyfjdyrkcj 

"Ujzjdgeqdepdheexdyjzl.dumyfdgeqzdiryfjz,dL ddZjprqcx?"

"OjzyrmpcgdMdur.,"dzjyqzpjxdyfjdcrxdfrqhfymcg 

"Geqdr..jzydyfrydae.mymtjcg?"

"Gj. "

"Pedcmyycjdxm.aqyj.,djf?"

Nrovd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. d"Jtjzgdepjdlrgdfrtjdrdxmiijzjpojdei
eampmepdpeudrpxdyfjp "

"Wqmyjd.e,dwqmyjd.e dKqydmidrpgdepjdujzjdyedr..jzydyfrydgeqdfrxdr
tmecjpydwqrzzjcdumyfdgeqzdiryfjzdepdyfjdjtjdeidgeqzdxjarzyqzjdiez
Arzm.,dyfrydajz.ep,dumyfeqydxeqky,dueqcxdkjdcgmph?"

MdoeqcxdpeydkqydrxlmzjdyfjdmphjpqmygdeidHmzrqx dFm.dker.yd"M
vpeudjtjzgyfmph"dfrxdkjjpdpedmxcjdepj dNrovdZjprqcxdur.docjrzcg
xm.oepojzyjxdkgdyfjdwqj.ymep 

"Uj--ujdxmxdfrtjdrpdrzhqljpy,"dfjdrxlmyyjx 

"Rf,drpdrzhqljpy!dMpdyfjdoeqz.jdeidyfrydrzhqljpydxmxdgeqdq.jdyfm.
afzr.j:d'Ufjpdgeqdrzjdxjrx,dMdorpdxedr.dMdacjr.j?'"

"Mdlrgdfrtjdxepj,"dlqyyjzjxdyfjdeyfjz d"Mdxep'ydvpeu "

"Mpdzj.aep.jdyedyfry,dxmxdgeqzdiryfjzd.rg:d'KqydMdrldpeydxjrx
gjy!'dYedufmofdgeqdzj.aepxjx:d'Mdum.fdgeqdujzj!'"

Yfjdkegdlrxjdpedrp.ujz dFm.dfrpx.dimxxcjxdpjzteq.cgdumyfdyfjdyfmph.
epdyfjdyrkcjdmpdizepydeidfml 

"Mdlq.ydzjwqj.ydrpdrp.ujz,dacjr.j,dL dZjprqcx,"d.rmxdHmzrqxd.frzacg 

Umyfdrpdrphzgdjbocrlrymep,dyfjdkegd.ujaydrdfjrtgdarajz-vpmijdepdye
yfjdiceez 

"Ufrydxej.dmydlryyjz?dGeqdlmhfydr.dujccdvpeu dGj.,dMdxmxdwqrzzjc
umyfdlgdiryfjz dMdxrzjd.rgdMd.rmxdrccdyfe.jdyfmph.--Mdur.d.edrphzg
MdorppeydjtjpdzjljlkjzdufrydMd.rmx!dMdur.diqzmeq.--Mdoeqcxdrcle.y
frtjdvmccjxdfmldrydyfrydleljpy--yfjzj,dlrvjdyfjdle.ydeidyfry!"dFj
cjrpydkrovdmpdfm.dofrmz,dicq.fjxdrpxdxjimrpy 

Hmzrqxd.lmcjx,dyfjp,dletmphdfm.dofrmzdkrovdrdcmyycj,d.rmx:

"Yfrydm.drcc dGeqdueqcx,dumyfeqydxeqky,dazjijzdyedoepympqjdyfj
mpyjzzehryezg,dL dcjdnqhj "

"Rf,dgj.,djbroycg,"d.rmxdL dFrqyjy d"Rpxdufrydur.dyfjd.qknjoydei
geqzdwqrzzjc?"

"Mdxjocmpjdyed.yryj "

L dFrqyjyd.rydqadmpdfm.dofrmz 

"L dZjprqcx,dmydm.dpeydajzlmyyjxdyedyzmicjdumyfdyfjdcru!"dfj
yfqpxjzjx d"Ufrydur.dyfjd.qknjoydeidyfjdwqrzzjc?"

GeqphdZjprqcxdzjlrmpjxd.mcjpy,dfm.dkegm.fdirojd.qccjpdrpx
etjzor.y dKqydrpeyfjzdtemojd.aevj,dmlajzyqzkrkcjdrpxdorcl,dyfj
temojdeidFjzoqcjdAemzey 

"Mdumccdmpiezldgeq,dmidgeqdcmvj,dL dcjdnqhj "

"Geqdvpeu?"

"OjzyrmpcgdMdvpeu dYfjd.qknjoydeidyfjdwqrzzjcdur.dLrxjlem.jccj
LrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc "

Zjprqcxd.azrphdzeqpx,d.yrzycjx dYfjdlrhm.yzryjdcjrpjxdiezurzx 

"M.dyfm.d.e,dlep.mjqz "

NrovdZjprqcxdkeujxdfm.dfjrx 

"Gj.,"dfjdrxlmyyjx d"MdcetjdLrxjlem.jccjdXrqkzjqmc,drpxdMdum.fdye
lrzzgdfjz dUfjpdMdmpiezljxdlgdiryfjzdeidyfjdiroy,dfjdicjudrydepoj
mpyedrdtmecjpydzrhj ddPryqzrccgdMdoeqcxdpeyd.yrpxdfjrzmphdyfjdhmzc
Mdcetjxdmp.qcyjx,drpxdM,dyee,dce.ydlgdyjlajz "

L dFrqyjydceevjxdroze..drydLz. dZjprqcx 

"Geqdujzjdrurzjdeidyfm.--ryyrofljpy,dlrxrlj "

"Mdijrzjxdmy,"d.fjdzjacmjxd.mlacg 

"Leyfjz,"dozmjxdyfjdkeg d"Geqdyee!dLrzyfjdm.dr.dheexdr.d.fjdm.
kjrqymiqc dUfrydorpdgeqdfrtjdrhrmp.ydfjz?"

"Mdfrtjdpeyfmphdrhrmp.ydLrxjlem.jccjdXrqkzjqmcdmpdrpgdurg dKqydM
.feqcxdazjijzdgeqdyedlrzzgdrpdJphcm.fuelrp,dezdmidrdIzjpofuelrp
peydepjdufedfr.drdleyfjzdeidxeqkyiqcdrpyjojxjpy.!"

Fjzdzrpoeqzdrhrmp.ydyfjdecxjzduelrpd.feujxdacrmpcgdmpdfjzdtemoj,
rpxdMdoeqcxdujccdqpxjz.yrpxdyfrydmydlq.ydfrtjdkjjpdrdkmyyjzdkceu
yedfjzdufjpdfjzdepcgd.epd.feujxd.mhp.deidirccmphdmpdcetjdumyfdyfj
xrqhfyjzdeidfjzdzmtrc 

Lz. dZjprqcxdoepympqjx,drxxzj..mphdyfjdlrhm.yzryj:

"Mdeqhfy,dajzfra.,dyedfrtjd.aevjpdyedlgdfq.krpxdepdyfjd.qknjoy,dkqy
Mdfeajxdyfrydmydur.depcgdrdkegdrpxdhmzcdicmzyrymepdufmofdueqcxdkceu
etjzdrccdyfjdwqmovjzdmidpedpeymojdur.dyrvjpdeidmy dMdkcrljdlg.jci
peudiezdlgd.mcjpoj,dkqydlgdfq.krpx,dr.dMdyecxdgeq,dfrxd.jjljxd.e
rpbmeq.drpxdorzj-uezp,dxmiijzjpydrcyehjyfjzdizeldfm.dpezlrcd.jci,
yfrydMdur.dofmjicgdoepojzpjxdpeydyedhmtjdfmldrpgdrxxmymeprcduezzg "

L dFrqyjydpexxjx 

"Ufjpdgeqdmpiezljxdgeqzdiryfjzdeidgeqzdmpyjpymep.dyeurzx.
Lrxjlem.jccjdXrqkzjqmc,"dfjdzj.qljx,d"fjdur.d.qzazm.jx?"

"Fjd.jjljxdoelacjyjcgdyrvjpdrkrov dYfjpdfjdezxjzjxdljdajzjlayezmcg
yedxm.lm..drpgd.qofdmxjrdizeldlgdlmpx dFjdueqcxdpjtjzdhmtjdfm.
oep.jpydyed.qofdrdlrzzmrhj dPjyycjx,dMdxjlrpxjxdufrydfjdfrxdrhrmp.y
Lrxjlem.jccjdXrqkzjqmc dYedyfrydfjdoeqcxdhmtjdped.rym.iroyezgdzjacg,
kqyd.aevjdmpd.cmhfymphdyjzl.deidyfjdlg.yjzgd.qzzeqpxmphdyfjdcmtj.
eidyfjdleyfjzdrpxdxrqhfyjz dMdrp.ujzjxdyfrydMdur.dlrzzgmphdLrzyfj,
rpxdpeydfjzdrpyjojxjpy.,dkqydfjd.feqyjxdljdxeupdumyfdrdajzjlayezg
zjiq.rcdyedxm.oq..dyfjdlryyjzdmpdrpgdurg ddYfjdufecjdyfmphdlq.y
kjdhmtjpdqa dYfjdmpnq.ymojdrpxdfmhf-frpxjxpj..deidmydrccdlrxxjpjx
lj--j.ajomrccgd.mpojdfjdfml.jcidrcurg.d.jjljxdyedhedeqydeidfm.
urgdyedkjdryyjpymtjdyedyfjdXrqkzjqmc.drpxdur.drcurg.d.qhhj.ymph
yfrydyfjgd.feqcxdkjdr.vjxdyedyfjdfeq.j dMdce.ydlgdfjrx,drpxduj
wqrzzjccjxdmpdjrzpj.y dLgdiryfjzdzjlmpxjxdljdyfrydMdur.djpymzjcg
xjajpxjpydepdfml,drpxdmydlq.ydfrtjdkjjpdmpdrp.ujzdyedyfrydyfrydM
lrxjdyfjdzjlrzvdrkeqydxemphdr.dMdacjr.jxdriyjzdfm.dxjryf--"

Aemzeydmpyjzzqayjxdumyfdrdwqmovdwqj.ymep 

"Geqdujzjdrurzj,dyfjp,deidyfjdyjzl.deidgeqzdiryfjz'.dumcc?"

"Mdvpjudyfrydfjdfrxdcjiydfrcidfm.diezyqpjdyedlj,dyfjdeyfjzdfrcidmp
yzq.ydiezdlgdleyfjzdyedoeljdyedljdrydfjzdxjryf,"dzjacmjxdyfjdcrx 

"Azeojjxdumyfdgeqzd.yezg,"d.rmxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj 

"Riyjzdyfrydujd.feqyjxdrydjrofdeyfjzdmpd.fjjzdzrhj,dqpymcdMd.qxxjpcg
zjrcmsjxdyfrydMdur.dmpdxrphjzdeidlm..mphdlgdyzrmpdyedArzm. dMdfrx
yedzqpdiezdyfjd.yrymep,d.ymccdmpdrdufmyjdfjrydeidiqzg dFeujtjz,
epojdujccdrurg,dMdorcljxdxeup dMduzeyjdyedLrzyfj,dyjccmphdfjzdufry
frxdfraajpjx,drpxdfjzdzjacgd.eeyfjxdljd.ymccdiqzyfjz d.fjdaempyjx
eqydyedljdyfrydujdfrxdepcgdyedkjd.yjrxir.y,drpxdrpgdeaae.mymep
ur.dkeqpxdyedhmtjdurgdrydcr.y dEqzdriijoymepdiezdjrofdeyfjzdlq.y
kjdyzmjxdrpxdazetjx,drpxdufjpdlgdarzjpy.dzjrcmsjxdyfrydmydur.dpe
cmhfydmpiryqrymepdepdlgdarzydyfjgdueqcxdxeqkycj..dzjcjpydyeurzx.
q. dEidoeqz.j,dyedfjz,dMdfrxdpeydxujcydepdlgdiryfjz'.dazmpomarc
eknjoymepdyedyfjdlryof dMd.eepd.rudyfrydMd.feqcxdxedlgdorq.jdpe
heexdkgdtmecjpoj dLgdiryfjzduzeyjdljd.jtjzrcdcjyyjz.dyedArzm.,
riijoymepryjdmpdyepj,drpxdufmofdxmxdpeydzjijzdyedeqzdxm.rhzjjljpy
ezdmy.dorq.j,drpxdMdzjacmjxdmpdyfjd.rljd.yzrmp "

"Geqdorpdazexqojdyfe.jdcjyyjz.,djf?"d.rmxdHmzrqx 

"Mdxmxdpeydvjjadyfjl "

"Pedlryyjz,"d.rmxdyfjdxjyjoymtj 

Zjprqcxdceevjxdrydfmldiezdrdleljpy,dkqydyfjdlrhm.yzryjdur.doepympqmph
fm.dwqj.ymep. 

"Yedar..dyedrpeyfjzdlryyjz,drzjdgeqdrowqrmpyjxdumyfdyfjdprljdei
Xqtjjp,dL dZjprqcx?"

"Xqtjjp?"d.rmxdNrov d"Xqtjjp?"dFjdcjrpydiezurzx,drpxd.ceucgdamovjxdqa
yfjdarajz-vpmijdfjdfrxd.ujaydizeldyfjdyrkcj dR.dfjdcmiyjxdfm.dfjrx,
fm.djgj.dljydyfjduryofmphdepj.deidHmzrqx d"Xqtjjp?dPe,dMdorp'yd.rg
Mdrl "

"Umccdgeqdzjrxdyfm.dcjyyjz,dL dZjprqcx?dRpxdyjccdljdmidgeqdfrtj
rpgdmxjrdr.dyedufedyfjdajz.epdur.dufedrxxzj..jxdmydyedgeqzdiryfjz?"

NrovdZjprqcxdyeevdyfjdcjyyjz,drpxdzjrxdmydyfzeqhf,dyfjdoeceqz
leqpymphdmpdfm.dirojdr.dfjdxmxd.e 

"Rxxzj..jxdyedlgdiryfjz?"dYfjdjleymepdrpxdmpxmhprymepdmpdfm.dyepj.
ujzjdjtmxjpy 

"Gj. dUjdieqpxdmydmpdyfjdaeovjydeidfm.doery "

"Xej.--"dFjdfj.myryjx,dyfzeumphdyfjdljzj.ydizroymepdeidrdhcrpoj
yeurzx.dfm.dleyfjz dYfjdlrhm.yzryjdqpxjz.yeex 

"R.dgjy--pe dOrpdgeqdhmtjdq.drpgdocqjdr.dyedyfjduzmyjz?"

"Mdfrtjdpedmxjrdufry.ejtjz "

L dFrqyjyd.mhfjx 

"Rdle.ydlg.yjzmeq.dor.j dRf,dujcc,dMd.qaae.jdujdorpdpeudzqcjdeqy
yfjdcjyyjzdrcyehjyfjz dUfrydxedgeqdyfmpv,dL dHmzrqx?dMydxej.dpey
.jjldyedcjrxdq.drpgufjzj "

"Mydojzyrmpcgdxej.dpey,"drhzjjxdyfjdxjyjoymtjdumyfdjlafr.m. 

"Rpxdgjy,"d.mhfjxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj,d"mydazelm.jxdrydyfjdkjhmppmphdye
kjd.qofdrdkjrqymiqcdrpxd.mlacjdor.j!"dFjdorqhfydLz. dZjprqcx'.djgj,
rpxdkcq.fjxdmpdmlljxmryjdoepiq.mep d"Rf,dgj.,"dfjdoeqhfjx,dyqzpmph
etjzdyfjdarajz.depdyfjdyrkcj d"Cjydljd.jj,dufjzjdujzjduj?dEf,dyfj
ujraep dMdijrzdyfm.dlrgdhmtjdgeqdarmp,dL dZjprqcx ddMdqpxjz.yrpxdmy
ur.drdazj.jpydizeldgeqdyedgeqzdleyfjz ddTjzgd.rx--tjzgdxm.yzj..mph--"

NrovdZjprqcxdcjrpjxdiezurzx dFm.diroj,dufmofdfrxdicq.fjxdxqzmph
yfjdajzq.rcdeidyfjdcjyyjz,dur.dpeudxjrxcgdufmyj 

"Xedgeqdljrp----yfrydmydur.dumyfdrpdrjzeacrpjdumzjdarajzdoqyyjz
yfrydlgdiryfjzdur.--ur.dvmccjx?dKqydmy'.dmlae..mkcj!dRdcmyycjdyfmph
cmvjdyfry!"

"Rcr.,dL dZjprqcx,dmydm.depcgdyeedyzqj!dRpdmxjrcdcmyycjdyeec,
Mdijrz d.frzadrpxdjr.gdyedfrpxcj "

"Ufjzjdm.dmy?dOrpdMd.jjdmy?dM.dmyd.ymccdmpdyfj--yfjdkexg?"

"Ef,dpe,dmydfrxdkjjpdzjletjx dGeqdueqcxdcmvjdyed.jjdmy?dYedlrvj
.qzj?dMydueqcxdkjdr.dujcc,dajzfra.,dyfeqhfdlrxrljdfr.drczjrxg
mxjpymimjxdmy d.ymcc--L dKjb,dlmhfydMdyzeqkcjdgeq?"

"Ojzyrmpcg,dL dcjdnqhj dMdumccdijyofdmydmlljxmryjcg "

"UeqcxdmydpeydkjdkjyyjzdyedyrvjdL dZjprqcxdyedyfjd.fjx?"d.qhhj.yjx
Hmzrqxd.leeyfcg d"Umyfeqydxeqkydfjdueqcxdum.fdyed.jjdfm.diryfjz'.
kexg "

Yfjdkegdlrxjdrd.fmtjzmphdhj.yqzjdeidpjhrymep,drpxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj,
rcurg.dxm.ae.jxdyedoze..dHmzrqxdufjpjtjzdae..mkcj,dzjacmjx 

"Kqydpe--peydrydazj.jpy dL dKjbdumccdkjd.edvmpxdr.dyedkzmphdmydye
q.dfjzj "

Yfjdoellm..rzgdcjiydyfjdzeel d.yepezdoze..jxdyedNrov,drpxduzqph
fmldkgdyfjdfrpx dAemzeydfrxdzm.jpdrpxdur.drxnq.ymphdrdarmzdei
orpxcj.ymov.dyfryd.yzqovdfm.dyzrmpjxdjgjdr.dkjmphdrd.frxjdr.vju dYfj
lrhm.yzryjdur.dzjrxmphdyfjdlg.yjzmeq.dcetj-cjyyjzdyfzeqhfdrdcr.y
ymlj,docmphmphdxj.ajzryjcgdyedfm.dimz.ydyfjezgdeidnjrceq.gdrpxdr
.yrkdmpdyfjdkrov 

.qxxjpcgdyfjdxeezdkqz.ydeajpdrpxdyfjdoellm..rzgdzq.fjxdmp 

"L dcjdnqhj!dL dcjdnqhj!"

"Kqydgj. dUfrydm.dmy?"

"Yfjdxrhhjz!dMydm.dhepj!"

"_Oelljpy_--hepj?"

"Trpm.fjx dXm.raajrzjx dYfjdhcr..dnrzdyfrydoepyrmpjxdmydm.djlayg!"

"Ufry?"dMdozmjx d"Mlae..mkcj dUfg,depcgdyfm.dlezpmphdMd.ru--"
Yfjduezx.dxmjxdepdlgdyephqj 

Kqydyfjdryyjpymepdeidyfjdjpymzjdzeeldur.dxmtjzyjxdyedlj 

"Ufrydm.dyfrydgeqd.rg?"dozmjxdyfjdoellm..rzg d"Yfm.dlezpmph?"

"Md.rudmydyfjzjdyfm.dlezpmph,"dMd.rmxd.ceucg d"Rkeqydrpdfeqzdrpx
rdfrcidrhe,dyedkjdrooqzryj "

"Geqdujpydyedyfjd.fjx,dyfjp?dFeudxmxdgeqdhjydyfjdvjg?"

"Mdr.vjxdyfjd_.jzhjpydxjdtmccj_diezdmy "

"Rpxdgeqdujpydyfjzj?dUfg?"

Mdfj.myryjx,dkqydmpdyfjdjpxdMdxjomxjxdyfrydyfjdepcgdyfmphdyedxe
ur.dyedlrvjdrdocjrpdkzjr.ydeidmy 

"L dcjdnqhj,"dMd.rmx d"Mdfrtjdoellmyyjxdrdhzrtjdirqcy,diezdufmof
Mdlq.ydozrtjdgeqzdmpxqchjpoj "

"_Jfdkmjp!_dAzeojjx,dlep.mjqz "

"Yfjdiroydeidyfjdlryyjzdm.,"dMd.rmx,dum.fmphdlg.jcidrpgufjzjdjc.j
yfrpdufjzjdMdur.,d"yfrydMdljydrdgeqphdcrxg,drpdrowqrmpyrpojdei
lmpj d.fjdxm.acrgjxdrdhzjrydxj.mzjdyed.jjdjtjzgyfmphdyfrydur.dye
kjd.jjp,drpxdM--ujcc,dmpd.fezy,dMdyeevdyfjdvjgdyed.feudfjzdyfjdkexg "

"Rf,d_arzdjbjlacj_,"dozmjxdyfjdlrhm.yzryjdmpxmhprpycg dd"Kqydmy
m.drdhzrtjdirqcydgeqdfrtjdoellmyyjxdyfjzj,dOrayrmpdFr.ymph. dMydm.
rcyehjyfjzdle.ydmzzjhqcrz dGeqd.feqcxdpeydfrtjdajzlmyyjxdgeqz.jci
yfm.dieccg "

"Mdvpeu,"dMd.rmxdljjvcg d"Peyfmphdyfrydgeqdorpd.rgdoeqcxdkjdyee
.jtjzj,dL dcjdnqhj "

"Geqdxmxdpeydmptmyjdyfm.dcrxgdyedoeljdfjzj?"

"Ojzyrmpcgdpey dMdljydfjzdwqmyjdkgdroomxjpy d.fjdm.drpdJphcm.fdcrxg
ufedfraajp.dyedkjd.yrgmphdmpdLjzcmptmccj,dyfeqhfdMdur.dpeydrurzj
eidyfrydqpymcdlgdqpjbajoyjxdljjymphdumyfdfjz "

"Ujcc,dujcc,"d.rmxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj,d.eiyjpmph d"Mydur.dle.y
mzzjhqcrz,dkqydyfjdcrxgdm.dumyfeqydxeqkydgeqphdrpxdkjrqymiqc,
_p'j.y-ojdar._?dUfrydmydm.dyedkjdgeqph!d_Ednjqpj..j,dnjqpj..j!_"
Rpxdfjd.mhfjxd.jpymljpyrccg 

Kqydyfjdoellm..rzg,dcj..dzelrpymo,drpxdlezjdazroymorc,dyeevdqa
yfjdyrcj:

"Kqydxmxdpeydgeqdzjoce.jdrpxdceovdyfjdxeezdufjpdgeqdxjarzyjx "

"Yfry'.dnq.ydmy,"dMd.rmxd.ceucg d"Yfry'.dufrydMdkcrljdlg.jci
iezd.edyjzzmkcg dLgdizmjpxdur.dqa.jydrydyfjd.mhfy dd.fjdpjrzcg
irmpyjx dMdheydfjzd.eljdkzrpxgdrpxduryjz,drpxdriyjzurzx.dmp.m.yjx
epdrooelarpgmphdfjzdkrovdyedyeup dMpdyfjdjbomyjljpy,dMdiezheydye
zjceovdyfjdxeez dMdepcgdxmxd.edufjpdMdheydkrovdyedyfjdTmccr "

"Yfjpdiezdyujpygdlmpqyj.drydcjr.y--"d.rmxdyfjdoellm..rzgd.ceucg dFj
.yeaajx 

"Jbroycg,"dMd.rmx 

"Yujpygdlmpqyj.,"dlq.jxdyfjdoellm..rzg 

"Mydm.dxjacezrkcj,"d.rmxdL dFrqyjy,dfm.d.yjzppj..deidlrppjz
zjyqzpmph d"Umyfeqydazjojxjpy "

.qxxjpcgdrpeyfjzdtemojd.aevj 

"Geqdimpxdmydxjacezrkcj,dL dcjdnqhj?"dr.vjxdHmzrqx 

"OjzyrmpcgdMdxe "

"_Jfdkmjp!_dMdimpxdmydrxlmzrkcj,"d.rmxdyfjdeyfjzdmlajzyqzkrkcg 

Yfm.dqpjbajoyjxdrccgdwqmyjdkjumcxjzjxdlj 


"Rxlmzrkcj,dL dHmzrqx?"dr.vjxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj,d.yqxgmphdfmldorqymeq.cg
eqydeidyfjdoezpjzdeidfm.djgj 

"Azjom.jcg "

"Rpxdufg?"

"Kjorq.jdujdvpeudpeudyfrydyfjdr..r..mp,dezdrpdrooelacmojdeidyfj
r..r..mp,dfr.dkjjpdpjrzdyfjdTmccrdepcgdrpdfeqzdrhe dMydumccdkj
.yzrphjdmi,dumyfdyfrydvpeucjxhj,dujdxedpeyd.fezycgdcrgdfrpx.dqaep
fml "dYfjzjdur.drdpeyjdeidljprojdmpdfm.dtemoj dFjdoepympqjx:d"Fj
zm.vjxdrdheexdxjrcdyedhrmpdae..j..mepdeidyfrydxrhhjz dAjzfra.dfj
ijrzjxdyfrydimphjz-azmpy.dlmhfydkjdxm.oetjzjxdepdmy "

AemzeydyqzpjxdyedKjb 

"Geqd.rmxdyfjzjdujzjdpepj?"

Hmzrqxd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. 

"Ajzfra.dfjdoeqcxdpeydkjd.qzj "

Aemzeydceevjxdrydfml 

"Geqdrzjduzeph,dL dHmzrqx dYfjdr..r..mpduezjdhcetj. d.edfjdlq.y
frtjdkjjpd.qzj "

"Mdxedpeyd.rgdmydur.dyfjdr..r..mpdfml.jci dMydlrgdfrtjdkjjpdrp
rooelacmojdufedur.dpeydrurzjdeidyfrydiroy "

"_Mc.d.epydlrcdzjp.jmhpé.,dcj.drooelacmoj.!_"dlqyyjzjxdAemzey,
kqydfjd.rmxdpedlezj 

Yfjdlrhm.yzryj'.docjzvdur.dhryfjzmphdqadyfjdarajz.depdyfj
yrkcj dL dFrqyjydrxxzj..jxdq.:

"Eqzduezvdfjzjdm.dimpm.fjx dAjzfra.,dL dZjprqcx,dgeqdumccdcm.yjp
ufmc.ydgeqzdjtmxjpojdm.dzjrxdetjzdyedgeq dMdfrtjdaqzae.jcgdvjay
rccdyfjdazeojjxmph.dr.dmpiezlrcdr.dae..mkcj dMdfrtjdkjjpdorccjx
ezmhmprcdmpdlgdljyfex.,dkqydMdlrmpyrmpdyfrydyfjzjdm.dlqofdyedkj
.rmxdiezdezmhmprcmyg ddYfjdor.jdm.dpeudmpdyfjdocjtjzdfrpx.deidyfj
zjpeupjxdL dHmzrqx dFjdumccdumyfeqydxeqkydxm.ymphqm.fdfml.jci 
Mpxjjx,dMduepxjzdyfrydfjdfr.dpeydrczjrxgdcrmxdfm.dfrpx.dqaep
yfjdlqzxjzjz.!dLrxrlj,drhrmpdcjydljdr..qzjdgeqdeidlgdfjrzy-ijcy
.glaryfg dLj..mjqz.,dMdum.fdgeqdrccdheexdxrg "dRpx,drooelarpmjxdkg
fm.docjzvdrpxdyfjdoellm..rzg,dfjdyeevdfm.dxjarzyqzj 

Aemzeydyqhhjxdeqydyfrydcrzhjdyqzpmadeidrduryofdeidfm.,drpxdek.jztjx
yfjdymlj 

"Cjydq.dzjyqzpdyedyfjdfeyjcdiezdcqpof,dlgdizmjpx,"dfjd.rmx d"Rpxdgeq
.frccdzjoeqpydyedljdmpdiqccdyfjdmpxm.ozjymep.deidyfm.dlezpmph dPe
epjdm.dek.jztmphdq. dUjdpjjxdlrvjdpedrxmjqb "

Ujdujpydwqmjycgdeqydeidyfjdzeel dYfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdfrxdnq.y
xzmtjpdeiidmpdfm.dorz dMdur.dhemphdxeupdyfjd.yja.dufjpdAemzey'.
temojdrzzj.yjxdlj:

"Epjdcmyycjdleljpy,dlgdizmjpx "dXjbyjzeq.cg,dfjdufmaajxdeqydfm.
grzxdljr.qzj,drpxdazeojjxjx,dwqmyjd.ecjlpcg,dyedljr.qzjdrpdetjzoery
frphmphdmpdyfjdfrccdizeldyfjdoeccrzdyedyfjdfjl dMdfrxdpeyd.jjpdmy
frphmphdyfjzjdkjiezj,drpxdhqj..jxdyfrydmydkjcephjxdyedjmyfjzdLz 
.yepez,dezdNrovdZjprqcx 

Yfjp,dumyfdrdcmyycjd.rym.imjxdhzqpy,dAemzeydzjyqzpjxdyfjdljr.qzj
yedfm.daeovjy,drpxdiecceujxdljdeqydmpyedyfjdeajpdrmz 




12

AemzeydJcqomxryj.dOjzyrmpdAempy.


"Ufgdxmxdgeqdljr.qzjdyfrydetjzoery?"dMdr.vjx,dumyfd.eljdoqzme.myg,
r.dujdurcvjxdxeupdyfjdfeydufmyjdzerxdrydrdcjm.qzjcgdaroj 

"_Arzkcjq!_dyed.jjdfeudcephdmydur.,"dzjacmjxdlgdizmjpxdmlajzyqzkrkcg 

Mdur.dtjbjx dAemzey'.dmpoqzrkcjdfrkmydeidlrvmphdrdlg.yjzgdeqydei
peyfmphdpjtjzdirmcjxdyedmzzmyryjdlj dMdzjcra.jxdmpyed.mcjpoj,drpx
iecceujxdrdyzrmpdeidyfeqhfydeidlgdeup dRcyfeqhfdMdfrxdpeydpeymojx
yfjld.ajomrccgdrydyfjdymlj,dojzyrmpduezx.dLz. dZjprqcxdfrxdrxxzj..jx
yedfjzd.epdpeudzjoqzzjxdyedlj,dizrqhfydumyfdrdpjud.mhpmimorpoj d".e
geqdxmxdpeyd.rmc?"d.fjdfrxd.rmx,drpxdyfjpdfrxdrxxjx:d"_Riyjzdrcc,
mydxej.dpeydlryyjz--peu _"

Ufrydfrxd.fjdljrpydkgdyfry?dYfjduezx.dujzjdjpmhlrymorc--
.mhpmimorpy dUr.dmydae..mkcjdyfryd.fjdvpjudlezjdyfrpdujd.qaae.jx?d.fj
frxdxjpmjxdrccdvpeucjxhjdeidyfjdlg.yjzmeq.dlm..mepdumyfdufmofdfjz
fq.krpxdur.dyedfrtjdjpyzq.yjxdfm.d.ep dKqydur.d.fjdzjrccgdcj..
mhpezrpydyfrpd.fjdazjyjpxjx?dOeqcxd.fjdjpcmhfyjpdq.dmid.fjdofe.j,
rpxdur.dfjzd.mcjpojdarzydeidrdorzjiqccgdyfeqhfydeqydrpxdazjoepojmtjx
acrp?

YfjdlezjdMdyfeqhfydrkeqydmy,dyfjdlezjdMdur.doeptmpojxdyfrydM
ur.dzmhfy dLz. dZjprqcxdvpjudlezjdyfrpd.fjdofe.jdyedyjcc dMpdfjz
.qzazm.jdryd.jjmphdfjzd.ep,d.fjdfrxdleljpyrzmcgdkjyzrgjxdfjz.jci dM
ijcydoeptmpojxdyfryd.fjdvpju,dmidpeydyfjdr..r..mp.,drydcjr.ydyfj
leymtjdiezdyfjdr..r..mprymep dKqyd.eljdtjzgdaeujziqcdoep.mxjzrymep.
lq.ydvjjadfjzd.mcjpy 

"Geqdyfmpvdazeieqpxcg,dlgdizmjpx,"dzjlrzvjxdAemzey,dkzjrvmphdmp
qaepdlgdzjicjoymep. d"Ufrydm.dmydyfrydmpyzmhqj.dgeqd.e?"

Mdyecxdfml,d.qzjdeidlgdhzeqpx,dyfeqhfdijjcmphdjbajoyrpydyfrydfjdueqcx
zmxmoqcjdlgd.q.amomep. dKqydyedlgd.qzazm.jdfjdpexxjxdyfeqhfyiqccg 

"Geqdrzjdwqmyjdzmhfy,dFr.ymph. dIzeldyfjdkjhmppmphdMdfrtjdkjjp
.qzjdyfryd.fjdur.dvjjamphd.eljyfmphdkrov dRydimz.ydMd.q.ajoyjxdfjz,
midpeydeidmp.amzmph,drydcjr.ydeidoeppmtmphdrydyfjdozmlj "

"Geqd.q.ajoyjxd_fjz_?"dMdozmjx 

"Kqydojzyrmpcg!d.fjdkjpjimy.djpezleq.cg--mpdiroy,dkgdyfm.dpju
umcc,d.fjdm.dyfjdepcgdajz.epdyedkjpjimy d.e,dizeldyfjd.yrzy,d.fj
ur.d.mphcjxdeqydiezdryyjpymep dGeqdlrgdfrtjdpeymojxdyfrydMdyeevdrp
jrzcgdeaaezyqpmygdeidjbrlmpmphdfjzduzm.y. dMdum.fjxdyed.jjdufjyfjz
yfjzjdur.drpgdae..mkmcmygdyfryd.fjdfrxdhrhhjxdrpxdkeqpxdfjz.jci d_Jf
kmjp_,dMd.rudrydepojdyfrydyfjzjdur.dpedirvj,dyfjdoezx.dfrxdroyqrccg
kjjpdxzrupd.edymhfydr.dyedoqydmpyedyfjdicj.f ddYfrydzqcjxdeqydyfj
ae..mkmcmygdeidfjzdfrtmphdoellmyyjxdyfjdozmljd.mphcj-frpxjx dKqy
mydur.d.ymccdae..mkcjdiezdfjzdyedfrtjdoeppmtjxdrydmy,dezdyedfrtj
kjjpdyfjdmp.ymhryezdumyfdrpdrooelacmoj dLezjetjz,dyfjd.yezg,dr.
.fjdyecxdmy,dur.d.mphqcrzcgdirlmcmrzdyedlj--yfjdlr.vjxdljpdyfry
.fjdoeqcxdpeydzjoehpmsj,dyfjdljpymepdeid'yfjd.jozjy'--Mdfrxdfjrzx,
ezdzjrx,drccdyfj.jdyfmph.dkjiezj dRpeyfjzdcmyycjdxjyrmcdoepimzljx
lgdkjcmjidyfryd.fjdur.dpeyd.ajrvmphdyfjdyzqyf d_Yfjduzm.yduryof,
Fr.ymph.,dyfjduzm.yduryof!_"

Rhrmpdyfryduzm.yduryof!dAemzeydur.djgjmphdljdoqzmeq.cg 

"Geqd.jj,d_lepdrlm_?dGeqdoelazjfjpx?"

"Pe,"dMdzjacmjxdumyfd.eljdmccdfqleqz d"Mdpjmyfjzd.jjdpez
oelazjfjpx dGeqdlrvjdrccdyfj.jdoepieqpxjxdlg.yjzmj.,drpxdmy'.
q.jcj..dr.vmphdgeqdyedjbacrmp dGeqdrcurg.dcmvjdvjjamphdjtjzgyfmph
qadgeqzd.cjjtjdyedyfjdcr.ydlmpqyj "

"Xedpeydjpzrhjdgeqz.jci,dlgdizmjpx,"d.rmxdAemzeydumyfdrd.lmcj d"M
umccdjbacrmpdmidgeqdum.f dKqydpeydrduezxdyedHmzrqx,d_o'j.y
jpyjpxq_?dFjdyzjry.dljdr.drpdecxdepjdeidpedmlaezyrpoj!d_Ujd.frcc
.jj!_dMpdoellepdirmzpj..dMdhrtjdfmldrdfmpy dMidfjdxej.dpeydofee.j
yedroydqaepdmy,dyfrydm.dfm.deupdceevdeqy "

Mdr..qzjxdAemzeydyfrydfjdoeqcxdzjcgdqaepdlgdxm.ozjymep 

"_O'j.ydkmjp!_dCjydq.dyfjpdjlacegdeqzdcmyycjdhzjgdojcc. ddYjccdlj,dlg
izmjpx,drydufrydymlj,drooezxmphdyedgeq,dxmxdyfjdyzrhjxgdyrvjdacroj?"

"Ufg,drydyuede'oceovdezdyfjzjrkeqy.,"dMd.rmx,dr.yepm.fjx d"Geq
zjljlkjz,dLz. dZjprqcxdyecxdq.dyfryd.fjdfjrzxdyfjdoceovd.yzmvj
ufmcjdyfjdljpdujzjdmpdyfjdzeel "

"Jbroycg,drpxdepdyfjd.yzjphyfdeidyfry,dgeq,dyfjdjbrlmpmph
lrhm.yzryj,dKjb,drpxdjtjzgdepjdjc.j,droojaydyfjdymljdumyfeqydiqzyfjz
wqj.ymep dKqydM,dFjzoqcjdAemzey,d.rgdyfrydLrxrljdZjprqcxdcmjx d_Yfj
ozmljdyeevdacrojdrydcjr.ydyuedfeqz.djrzcmjz _"

"Kqydyfjdxeoyez.--"

"Yfjgdxjocrzjx,driyjzdjbrlmprymepdeidyfjdkexg,dyfrydxjryfdfrx
yrvjpdacrojdkjyujjpdyjpdrpxd.jtjpdfeqz.dazjtmeq.cg dd_Lepdrlm_,
iezd.eljdzjr.ep,dmydur.dmlajzrymtjdyfrydyfjdozmljd.feqcxd.jjldye
frtjdyrvjpdacrojdcryjzdyfrpdmydroyqrccgdxmx dGeqdfrtjdzjrxdeidr
.lr.fjxduryofdezdoceovdzjoezxmphdyfjdjbroydfeqzdeidrdozmlj?d.e
yfrydyfjdymljd.feqcxdpeydzj.ydepdLz. dZjprqcx'.dyj.ymlepgdrcepj,
.eljdepjdletjxdepdyfjdfrpx.deidyfryduzm.yduryofdyedyuede'oceov,
rpxdyfjpdxr.fjxdmydtmecjpycgdyedyfjdhzeqpx dKqy,dr.dm.deiyjpdyfj
or.j,dyfjgdxjijryjxdyfjmzdeupdeknjoy dYfjdhcr..dur.d.lr.fjx,dkqy
yfjdljofrpm.ldeidyfjduryofdur.dqpmpnqzjx dMydur.drdle.ydxm.r.yzeq.
lrpejqtzjdepdyfjmzdarzy,diezdmydrydepojdxzjudlgdryyjpymepdyedyue
aempy.--imz.y,dyfrydLrxrljdZjprqcxdur.dcgmph:d.joepxcg,dyfrydyfjzj
lq.ydkjd.eljdtmyrcdzjr.epdiezdyfjdae.yaepjljpydeidyfjdymlj "

"Kqydufrydzjr.epdoeqcxdyfjzjdkj?"

"Rf,dyfrydm.dyfjdwqj.ymep!dYfjzjdujdfrtjdyfjdufecjdlg.yjzg dR.dgjy,
Mdorppeydjbacrmpdmy dYfjzjdm.depcgdepjdmxjrdyfrydazj.jpy.dmy.jci
yedljdr.dfrtmphdrdae..mkcjdoeppjoymep "

"Rpxdyfrydm.?"

"Yfjdcr.ydyzrmpdcjiydLjzcmptmccjdryd.jtjpyjjpdlmpqyj.dar.ydyujctj "

Mdiecceujxdmydeqyd.ceucg 

".edyfry,dyfjdozmljdraarzjpycgdyrvmphdacrojd.eljdyuedfeqz.dcryjz,
rpgdepjdcjrtmphdkgdyfrydyzrmpdueqcxdfrtjdrpdqpmlajrofrkcjdrcmkm!"

"Ajzijoy,dFr.ymph.!dGeqdfrtjdmy!"

Md.azrphdqa 

"Kqydujdlq.ydmpwqmzjdrydyfjd.yrymep d.qzjcgdyfjgdorppeydfrtjdirmcjx
yedpeymojdyuediezjmhpjz.dufedcjiydkgdyfrydyzrmp!dUjdlq.ydhedyfjzj
rydepoj!"

"Geqdyfmpvd.e,dFr.ymph.?"

"Eidoeqz.j dCjydq.dhedyfjzjdpeu "

Aemzeydzj.yzrmpjxdlgdrzxeqzdumyfdrdcmhfydyeqofdqaepdyfjdrzl 

"Hedkgdrccdljrp.dmidgeqdum.f,d_lepdrlm_--kqydmidgeqdhe,dMd.feqcx
peydr.vdiezdarzymoqcrz.deidyuediezjmhpjz. "

Md.yrzjx,drpxdfjd.rmxdzryfjzdmlarymjpycg:

"Cà,dcà,dgeqdxedpeydkjcmjtjdrccdyfrydzmhlrzecj,dxedgeq?dYfjdlr.vjx
ljpdrpxdrccdyfjdzj.ydeid_ojyyjdfm.yemzj-cà_!"

Fm.duezx.dyeevdljd.edlqofdrkrovdyfrydMdfrzxcgdvpjudfeudyedzj.aepx dFj
ujpydepd.jzjpjcg:

"Geqdfjrzxdljd.rgdyedHmzrqx,dxmxdgeqdpey,dyfrydrccdyfjdxjyrmc.dei
yfm.dozmljdujzjdirlmcmrzdyedlj?d_Jfdkmjp_,dyfrydazj.qaae.j.depj
eidyuedyfmph.,djmyfjzdyfjdkzrmpdyfrydacrppjxdyfjdimz.ydozmljdrc.e
acrppjxdyfm.depj,dezdjc.jdrpdrooeqpydzjrxdeidrd_orq.jdoécèkzj_
qpoep.omeq.cgdzjlrmpjxdmpdeqzdr..r..mp'.dljlezgdrpxdazelayjxdyfj
xjyrmc. dMd.frccdkjdrkcjdyedazepeqpojdxjimpmyjcgdepdyfrydriyjz--"
fjdkzevjdeii 

Mdur.dzjtectmphd.qpxzgdlryyjz.dmpdlgdlmpx 

"KqydLz dZjprqcx'.dcjyyjz?dMydxm.ympoycgdljpymep.drd.jozjydrpx
.rpymrhe?"

"Qpxeqkyjxcgdyfjzjdur.drd.jozjydmpdL dZjprqcx'.dcmij--yfjzjdorpdkj
pedxeqkydeidyfry dEpdyfjdeyfjzdfrpx,dyfjduezxd.rpymrhe,dyedlgdlmpx,
m.drdzjxdfjzzmph,dxzrhhjxdoepympqrccgdroze..dyfjdyzrovdyedaqydq.deii
yfjd.ojpy dMydm.dae..mkcjdyfrydmydur.dq.jxdmpdyfjd.rljdurgdepdL 
Zjprqcx,dyedvjjadfmldizeldxmzjoymphdfm.d.q.amomep.dmpyedrdwqrzyjz
pjrzjzdrydfrpx dEf,dkjdr..qzjx,dFr.ymph.,dyfjdxrphjzdyfrydyfzjryjpjx
fmldur.dpeydmpd.rpymrhe,dmydur.dpjrzdrydfrpx,dmpdIzrpoj "

Fjd.aevjd.edhzrtjcg,drpxdumyfd.qofdr..qzrpoj,dyfrydMdoeqcxdpeydirmc
yedkjdoeptmpojx dKqydMdj..rgjxdepjdimprcdeknjoymep:

"Rpxdyfjdlryofdrpxdomhrzjyyjdjpxdieqpxdpjrzdyfjdkexg?dUfrydeidyfjl "

RdcmhfydeidaqzjdjpnegljpydcmydqadAemzey'.diroj 

"Acrpyjx!dXjcmkjzryjcgdacrpyjxdyfjzjdiezdHmzrqxdezdepjdeidfm.
yzmkjdyedimpx!dRf,dfjdm.d.lrzy,dHmzrqx,dfjdorpdxedfm.dyzmov.!d.e
orpdrdheexdzjyzmjtjzdxeh dFjdoelj.dmpd.edacjr.jxdumyfdfml.jci dIez
feqz.dfjdfr.dozrucjxdepdfm.d.yelrof d'.jjdufrydMdfrtjdieqpx,'dfj
.rg. dRpxdyfjpdrhrmpdyedlj:d'Ufrydxedgeqd.jjdfjzj?'dLj,dMdrp.ujz,
umyfdazeieqpxdrpxdxjjadyzqyf,d'Peyfmph 'dRpxdHmzrqx,dyfjdhzjry
Hmzrqx,dfjdcrqhf.,dfjdyfmpv.dyedfml.jci,d'Ef,dyfrydfjdm.dmlkjomcj,
yfm.decxdepj!'d_Kqydujd.frccd.jj d d d _"

Kqydlgdlmpxdfrxdzjtjzyjxdyedyfjdlrmpdiroy. 

"Yfjpdrccdyfm.d.yezgdeidyfjdlr.vjxdljp--?"

"M.dirc.j "

"Ufrydzjrccgdfraajpjx?"

Aemzeyd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. 

"Epjdajz.epdoeqcxdyjccdq.--LrxrljdZjprqcx dKqyd.fjdumccdpey
.ajrv dYfzjry.drpxdjpyzjrymj.dueqcxdpeydletjdfjz dRdzjlrzvrkcjduelrp
yfry,dFr.ymph. dMdzjoehpmsjxdr.d.eepdr.dMd.rudfjzdyfrydMdfrxdyedxjrc
umyfdrduelrpdeidqpq.qrcdofrzroyjz dRydimz.y,dr.dMdyecxdgeq,dMdur.
mpocmpjxdyed.q.ajoydfjzdeidkjmphdoepojzpjxdmpdyfjdozmlj dRiyjzurzx.
Mdrcyjzjxdlgdeampmep "

"Ufrydlrxjdgeqdxedyfry?"

"Fjzd.aepyrpjeq.drpxdhjpqmpjdhzmjidrydyfjd.mhfydeidfjzdfq.krpx'.
kexg dMdoeqcxd.ujrzdyfrydyfjdrhepgdmpdyfrydozgdeidfjz.dur.dhjpqmpj "

"Gj.,"dMd.rmxdyfeqhfyiqccg,d"epjdorppeydlm.yrvjdyfj.jdyfmph. "

"Mdkjhdgeqzdarzxep,dlgdizmjpx--epjdorpdrcurg.dkjdlm.yrvjp dZjhrzx
rdhzjrydroyzj..,dxej.dpeydfjzdroymphdeidhzmjidorzzgdgeqdrurgdrpx
mlazj..dgeqdumyfdmy.dzjrcmyg?ddPe,dfeujtjzd.yzephdlgdeupdmlazj..mep
rpxdkjcmji,dMdpjjxjxdeyfjzdjtmxjpojdkjiezjdMdrcceujxdlg.jcidye
kjd.rym.imjx dYfjdhzjrydozmlmprcdorpdkjdrdhzjrydroyez dMdkr.jdlg
ojzyrmpygdmpdyfm.dor.j,dpeydqaepdlgdeupdmlazj..mep,dkqydqaepdyfj
qpxjpmrkcjdiroydyfrydLz. dZjprqcxdroyqrccgdirmpyjx dMdyqzpjxdqadfjz
jgjcmx.drpxdijcydfjzdaqc.j dYfjzjdur.dpedxjojaymep--yfjd.ueepdur.
hjpqmpj dYfjzjiezjdMdur.d.rym.imjxdyfrydfjzdrphqm.fdur.dzjrcdrpxdpey
r..qljx ddKj.mxj.,drd.lrccdrxxmymeprcdaempydpeydumyfeqydmpyjzj.y,dmy
ur.dqppjoj..rzgdiezdLz. dZjprqcxdyedjbfmkmydqpzj.yzrmpjxdhzmji d.fj
frxdfrxdepjdarzebg.ldepdcjrzpmphdeidfjzdfq.krpx'.dxjryf,drpxdyfjzj
ueqcxdkjdpedpjjxdiezdfjzdyed.mlqcryjdrpeyfjzd.qofdrdtmecjpydepjdep
kjfecxmphdfm.dkexg dPe,dLz. dZjprqcxdur.dpeydfjzdfq.krpx'.dlqzxjzj.. 
Kqydufgdfr.d.fjdcmjx?d.fjdcmjxdrkeqydyfjduzm.yduryof,d.fjdcmjxdrkeqy
yfjdlr.vjxdljp--.fjdcmjxdrkeqydrdyfmzxdyfmph dYjccdlj,dFr.ymph.,
ufrydm.dgeqzdjbacrprymepdeidyfjdeajpdxeez?"

"Ujcc,"dMd.rmx,dzryfjzdjlkrzzr..jx,d"Md.qaae.jdmydur.drp
etjz.mhfy dYfjgdiezheydyed.fqydmy "

Aemzeyd.feevdfm.dfjrx,drpxd.mhfjx 

"Yfrydm.dyfjdjbacrprymepdeidHmzrqx dMydxej.dpeyd.rym.igdlj dYfjzjdm.
rdljrpmphdkjfmpxdyfrydeajpdxeezdufmofdiezdrdleljpydMdorppeydiryfel "

"Mdfrtjdrpdmxjr,"dMdozmjxd.qxxjpcg 

"_Rdcrdkeppjdfjqzj!_dCjydq.dfjrzdmy "

"Cm.yjp dUjdrzjdrhzjjxdyfrydLz. dZjprqcx'.d.yezgdm.drdirkzmorymep dM.
mydpeydae..mkcj,dyfjp,dyfrydLz dZjprqcxdcjiydyfjdfeq.jdyedvjjadrp
raaempyljpy--ae..mkcgdumyfdyfjdlqzxjzjz--cjrtmphdyfjdizepydxeez
eajpdiezdfm.dzjyqzp dKqydfjdxmxdpeydzjyqzp,drpxdyfjdpjbydlezpmph
fjdm.dieqpx,d.yrkkjxdmpdyfjdkrov "

"Rpdrxlmzrkcjdyfjezg,dFr.ymph.,dkqydiezdyuediroy.dufmofdgeqdfrtj
ofrzroyjzm.ymorccgdetjzceevjx dMpdyfjdimz.ydacroj,dufedhrhhjxdrpx
keqpxdLrxrljdZjprqcx?ddRpxdufgdepdjrzyfd.feqcxdyfjgdzjyqzpdye
yfjdfeq.jdyedxed.e?dMpdyfjd.joepxdacroj,dpedlrpdepdjrzyfdueqcx
hedeqydyedvjjadrpdraaempyljpydujrzmphdfm.dqpxjzoceyfj.drpxdrp
etjzoery dYfjzjdrzjdomzoql.yrpoj.dmpdufmofdrdlrpdlmhfydujrzdarnrlr.
rpxdrpdetjzoery--kqydyfjdeyfjz,dpjtjz!"

"Yzqj,"dMd.rmx,dzryfjzdozj.y-irccjp 

"Pe,"doepympqjxdAemzey,d"ujdlq.ydceevdjc.jufjzjdiezdrd.ecqymepdei
yfjdeajpdxeezdlg.yjzg dEpjdyfmphdMdrldirmzcgd.qzjdei--yfjgdxmxdpey
cjrtjdyfzeqhfdyfjdxeez ddYfjgdcjiydkgdyfjdumpxeu "

"Ufry?"

"Azjom.jcg "

"Kqydyfjzjdujzjdpedieeylrzv.dmpdyfjdiceujzdkjxdqpxjzpjryf "

"Pe--_rpxdyfjzjdeqhfydyedfrtjdkjjp _dCm.yjp,dFr.ymph. ddYfjdhrzxjpjz,
Rqhq.yj,dr.dgeqdfjrzxdfmld.rg,dacrpyjxdkeyfdyfe.jdkjx.dyfjdazjojxmph
riyjzpeep dMpdyfjdepjdyfjzjdrzjdacjpymiqcdmlazj..mep.deidfm.dkmh
fekprmcjxdkeey.--mpdyfjdeyfjz,d_pepj_!dGeqd.jj?d.eljdepjdfrxdar..jx
yfrydurg,d.eljdepjdufe,dyedekcmyjzryjdyfjmzdieeyazmpy.,d.leeyfjx
etjzdyfjd.qzirojdeidyfjdkjxdumyfdrdzrvj "

"Ufjzjdxmxdyfjgdhjydrdzrvj?"

"Ufjzjdyfjgdheydyfjd.arxjdrpxdyfjdhrzxjpmphdhcetj.,"d.rmxdAemzey
mlarymjpycg d"Yfjzjdm.dpedxmiimoqcygdrkeqydyfry "

"Ufrydlrvj.dgeqdyfmpvdyfrydyfjgdcjiydyfrydurg,dyfeqhf?d.qzjcgdmydm.
lezjdazekrkcjdyfrydyfjgdjpyjzjxdkgdyfjdumpxeu,drpxdcjiydkgdyfjdxeez "

"Yfrydm.dae..mkcjdeidoeqz.j dGjydMdfrtjdrd.yzephdmxjrdyfrydyfjg
cjiydkgdyfjdumpxeu "

"Mdyfmpvdgeqdrzjduzeph "

"Ajzfra.,d_lepdrlm_ "

Mdlq.jx,dyfmpvmphdetjzdyfjdpjudimjcxdeidoepnjoyqzjdyfrydAemzey'.
xjxqoymep.dfrxdeajpjxdqadyedlj dMdzjorccjxdlgduepxjzdrydfm.dozgaymo
rccq.mep.dyedyfjdiceujzdkjxdrpxdyfjduzm.yduryof dFm.dzjlrzv.dfrx
.jjljxd.edljrpmphcj..drydyfjdleljpydrpxdpeu,diezdyfjdimz.ydymlj,
Mdzjrcmsjxdfeudzjlrzvrkcg,dizeldrdijud.cmhfydmpomxjpy.,dfjdfrx
qpzrtjccjxdlqofdeidyfjdlg.yjzgdyfryd.qzzeqpxjxdyfjdor.j dMdarmx
rdkjcryjxdfelrhjdyedlgdizmjpx dR.dyfeqhfdfjdzjrxdlgdyfeqhfy.,
fjdpexxjxd.rhjcg 

"Ljyfex,dgeqdoelazjfjpx!dLjyfex!dRzzrphjdgeqzdiroy. dRzzrphjdgeqz
mxjr. dRpxdmid.eljdcmyycjdiroydumccdpeydimydmp--xedpeydzjnjoydmy
kqydoep.mxjzdmydoce.jcg ddYfeqhfdmy.d.mhpmimorpojdj.oraj.dgeq,
kjd.qzjdyfrydmydm.d.mhpmimorpy "

"Mpdyfjdljrpymlj,"dMd.rmx,doep.mxjzmph,d"rcyfeqhfdujdvpeudrdhzjry
xjrcdlezjdyfrpdujdxmx,dujdrzjdpedpjrzjzdyed.ectmphdyfjdlg.yjzgdei
ufedvmccjxdLz dZjprqcx "

"Pe,"d.rmxdAemzeydofjjziqccg d"Mpdiroydujdrzjdrdhzjrydxjrcdiqzyfjz
eii "

Yfjdiroyd.jjljxdyedriiezxdfmld.qofdajoqcmrzd.rym.iroymepdyfrydM
hrsjxdrydfmldmpduepxjz dFjdljydlgdjgjdrpxd.lmcjx 

"Kqydgj.,dmydm.dkjyyjzd.e dKjiezj,dyfjzjdur.drydrccdjtjpy.drdocjrz
yfjezgdr.dyedfeudrpxdkgdufe.jdfrpx.dfjdljydfm.dxjryf dPeudyfrydm.
rccdhepj dUjdrzjdmpdxrzvpj.. dRdfqpxzjxdoepicmoymphdaempy.doepiq.j
rpxduezzgdq. dYfrydm.dujcc dYfrydm.djbojccjpy dEqydeidoepiq.mep
oelj.diezyfdezxjz dKqydmidgeqdimpxdezxjzdyed.yrzydumyf,dmidrdozmlj
.jjl.d.mlacjdrpxdrketj-kerzx,d_jfdkmjp,dléimjsdteq._!dMydm.,
feudxedgeqd.rgdmy?--_oeevjx!_dYfjdhzjrydozmlmprcdm.d.mlacj--kqy
tjzgdijudozmlmprc.d_rzj_dhzjry dMpdyzgmphdyedoetjzdqadyfjmzdyzrov.,
yfjgdmptrzmrkcgdkjyzrgdyfjl.jctj. ddRf,d_lepdrlm_,dMdueqcxdyfryd.elj
xrgdMdoeqcxdljjydrdzjrccgdhzjrydozmlmprc--epjdufedoellmy.dfm.dozmlj,
rpxdyfjp--xej.dpeyfmph!dJtjpdM,dFjzoqcjdAemzey,dlmhfydirmcdyedoryof
.qofdrdepj "

KqydMdfrxdpeydiecceujxdfm.duezx. dRdcmhfydfrxdkqz.ydqaepdlj 

"Aemzey!dLz. dZjprqcx!dMd.jjdmydpeu d.fjdlq.ydkjd.fmjcxmphd.eljkexg "

Izeldyfjdwqmjypj..dumyfdufmofdAemzeydzjojmtjxdlgdzjlrzv,dMdoeqcx
.jjdyfrydyfjdmxjrdfrxdrczjrxgdeooqzzjxdyedfml 

"Gj.,"dfjd.rmxdyfeqhfyiqccg d".fmjcxmphd.eljdepj--ezd.ozjjpmph
.eljdepj dEpjdeidyfjdyue "

Md.rudtjzgdcmyycjdxmiijzjpojdkjyujjpdyfjdyueduezx.,dkqydMdxjtjceajx
lgdyfjljdumyfdrdheexdxjrcdeidjrzpj.ypj.. ddAemzeydlrmpyrmpjxdr
.yzmoycgdpep-oellmyyrcdryymyqxj,dzjajrymph:

"Mydlrgdkj--gj.,dmydlrgdkj dKqydr.dgjydMdxedpeydvpeu!ddYfjzjdm.
.eljyfmphdtjzgdxjjadqpxjzpjryfdrccdyfm. dGeqdumccd.jj d.eljyfmph
tjzgdxjja "

Yfjp,dr.dujdjpyjzjxdeqzdfeyjc,dfjdjpnempjxd.mcjpojdepdljdumyf
rdhj.yqzj 




13

YfjdHmzcdumyfdyfjdRpbmeq.dJgj.


Ujdcqpofjxdumyfdrpdjbojccjpydraajymyj dMdqpxjz.yeexdujccdjpeqhf
yfrydAemzeydxmxdpeydum.fdyedxm.oq..dyfjdyzrhjxgdufjzjdujdoeqcxd.e
jr.mcgdkjdetjzfjrzx dKqy,dr.dm.dq.qrcdufjpdepjdyeamodimcc.dyfjdlmpx
yedyfjdjbocq.mepdeidjtjzgyfmphdjc.j,dpedeyfjzd.qknjoydeidmpyjzj.y
.jjljxdyedazj.jpydmy.jci dIezdrdufmcjdujdryjdmpd.mcjpoj,drpxdyfjp
Aemzeydek.jztjxdlrcmomeq.cg:

"_Jfdkmjp!_dRpxdgeqzdmpxm.ozjymep.!dGeqdzjoeqpydyfjldpey?"

Mdijcydlg.jcidkcq.fmph 

"Ef,dgeqdljrpdyfm.dlezpmph?"dMdjpxjrteqzjxdyedrxeaydrdyepjdei
rk.ecqyjdpepofrcrpoj 

KqydMdur.dpedlryofdiezdAemzey dMpdrdtjzgdijudlmpqyj.dfjdfrxdjbyzroyjx
yfjdufecjd.yezgdizeldlj,dfm.djgj.dyumpvcmphdr.dfjdxmxd.e 

"_Ymjp.!_dRd.yezgdeidyfjdle.ydzelrpymo dUfrydm.dfjzdprlj,dyfm.
ofrzlmphdgeqphdcrxg?"

Mdfrxdyedoepij..dyfrydMdxmxdpeydvpeu 

".ymccdlezjdzelrpymo!dYfjdimz.yd_zjpoepyzj_dmpdyfjdyzrmpdizeldArzm.,
yfjd.joepxdfjzj dNeqzpjg.djpxdmpdcetjz.'dljjymph.,dm.dpeydyfry
yfjd.rgmph?"

"Xep'ydkjdrpdr..,dAemzey "

"Gj.yjzxrgdmydur.dLrxjlem.jccjdXrqkzjqmc,dyexrgdmydm.
Lrxjlem.jccj--Ompxjzjccr!dXjomxjxcgdgeqdfrtjdyfjdfjrzydeidrdYqzv,
Fr.ymph.!dGeqd.feqcxdj.yrkcm.fdrdfrzjl!"

"My'.drccdtjzgdujccdyedzrhdlj dLrxjlem.jccjdXrqkzjqmcdm.drdtjzg
kjrqymiqcdhmzc,drpxdMdxedrxlmzjdfjzdmlljp.jcg--Mdxep'ydlmpx
rxlmyymphdmy dYfjdeyfjz'.dpeyfmph--xep'yd.qaae.jdMd.frccdjtjz
.jjdfjzdrhrmp d.fjdur.dwqmyjdrlq.mphdyedyrcvdyednq.ydiezdrdzrmcurg
neqzpjg,dkqyd.fj'.dpeydyfjdvmpxdeidhmzcdMd.feqcxdjtjzdhjydvjjpdep "

"Ufg?"

"Ujcc--myd.eqpx.d.pekkm.fdajzfra.--kqyd.fj'.dpeydrdcrxg,dpeydmp
rpgd.jp.jdeidyfjduezx "

Aemzeydpexxjxdyfeqhfyiqccg dYfjzjdur.dcj..dzrmccjzgdmpdfm.dtemoj
r.dfjdr.vjx:

"Geqdkjcmjtj,dyfjp,dmpdkmzyfdrpxdkzjjxmph?"

"Mdlrgdkjdecx-ir.fmepjx,dkqydMdojzyrmpcgdxep'ydkjcmjtjdmpdlrzzgmph
eqydeidepj'.docr.. dMydpjtjzdrp.ujz. "

"Mdrhzjjdumyfdgeq,d_lepdrlm_ dPmpjyg-pmpjdymlj.deqydeidrdfqpxzjx,
mydm.dr.dgeqd.rg dKqydyfjzjdm.drcurg.dyfjdfqpxzjxyfdymlj!d.ymcc,
yfrydxej.dpeydrzm.j,dr.dgeqdxedpeydazeae.jdyed.jjdyfjdcrxgdrhrmp "

Fm.dcr.yduezx.dujzjdrcle.ydrdwqj.ymep,drpxdMdur.drurzjdeidyfj
.frzapj..dumyfdufmofdfjdxrzyjxdrdhcrpojdrydlj dRpxdkjiezjdlgdjgj.,
uzmydcrzhjdmpdcjyyjz.deidimzj,dMd.rudyfjduezx.d"FôyjcdxqdAfrzj,"
rpxdMdfjrzxdrhrmpdfjzdtemojd.rgmphd"Oeljdrpxdceevdljdqa"drpxdlg
eupdrp.ujzmphdumyfd_jlazj..jljpy_:d"Mdumcc "

Ujcc,dufrydeidmy?dMdfrxdljrpydyedhedrydyfjdymlj dKqyd.mpojdyfjp,dM
frxdfrxdymljdyedzjicjoy dMdxmxdpeydcmvjdyfjdhmzc dYfmpvmphdmydetjzdmp
oecxdkceex,dMdorljdxjimpmyjcgdyedyfjdoepocq.mepdyfrydMdxm.cmvjxdfjz
mpyjp.jcg dMdfrxdheydfrqcjxdetjzdyfjdoerc.diezdieecm.fcgdhzrymigmph
fjzdlezkmxdoqzme.myg,drpxdMdfrxdpeydyfjdcjr.ydum.fdyed.jjdfjzdrhrmp 

Mdrp.ujzjxdAemzeydcmhfycgdjpeqhf 

".fjdr.vjxdljdyedceevdfjzdqa,dkqydeidoeqz.jdMd.frp'y "

"Ufgd'eidoeqz.j'?"

"Ujcc--Mdxep'ydurpydye "

"Md.jj "dFjd.yqxmjxdljdryyjpymtjcgdiezd.eljdlmpqyj. dd"Gj. dMd.jj
tjzgdujcc dRpxdgeqdrzjdum.j d.ymovdyedufrydgeqdfrtjd.rmx "

"Yfryd.jjl.dyedkjdgeqzdmptrzmrkcjdrxtmoj,"dMdzjlrzvjx,dzryfjzdamwqjx 

"Rf,dlgdizmjpx,dfrtjdirmyfdmpdArardAemzey d.eljdxrg,dmidgeqdajzlmy,
Mdumccdrzzrphjdgeqdrdlrzzmrhjdeidhzjryd.qmyrkmcmyg "

"Yfrpvdgeq,"dMd.rmxdcrqhfmph,d"kqydyfjdaze.ajoydcjrtj.dljdoecx "

Aemzeyd.mhfjxdrpxd.feevdfm.dfjrx 

"_Cj.dRphcrm.!_"dfjdlqzlqzjx d"Pedljyfex--rk.ecqyjcgdpepj
ufryjtjz dYfjgdcjrtjdrccdyedofrpoj!"dFjdizeupjx,drpxdrcyjzjxdyfj
ae.mymepdeidyfjd.rcydojccrz 

"Lrxjlem.jccjdOmpxjzjccrdm.d.yrgmphdrydyfjdFôyjcdx'Rphcjyjzzjdgeq
yecxdlj,dxmxdgeqdpey?"

"Pe dFôyjcdxqdAfrzj "

"Yzqj,dMdiezhey "

Rdleljpy'.dlm.hmtmphd.feydroze..dlgdlmpx d.qzjcgdMdfrxdpjtjz
ljpymepjxdrpgdfeyjcdyedAemzey dMdceevjxdroze..drydfml,drpxdijcy
zjr..qzjx dFjdur.doqyymphdfm.dkzjrxdmpyedpjrydcmyycjd.wqrzj.,
oelacjyjcgdrk.ezkjxdmpdfm.dyr.v dFjdlq.ydfrtjdirpomjxdMdfrxdyecx
fmldufjzjdyfjdhmzcdur.d.yrgmph 

Ujdfrxdoeiijjdeqy.mxjdiromphdyfjd.jr dAemzeyd.levjxdepjdeidfm.dympg
omhrzjyyj.,drpxdyfjpdxzjudfm.duryofdizeldfm.daeovjy 

"YfjdyzrmpdyedArzm.dcjrtj.dryd2:25,"dfjdek.jztjx d"Md.feqcxdkj
.yrzymph "

"Arzm.?"dMdozmjx 

"Yfrydm.dufrydMd.rmx,d_lepdrlm_ "

"GeqdrzjdhemphdyedArzm.?dKqydufg?"

Fjdzjacmjxdtjzgd.jzmeq.cg 

"YedceevdiezdyfjdlqzxjzjzdeidL dZjprqcx "

"Geqdyfmpvdfjdm.dmpdArzm.?"

"Mdrldwqmyjdojzyrmpdyfrydfjdm.dpey dPjtjzyfjcj..,dmydm.dyfjzjdyfry
Mdlq.ydceevdiezdfml dGeqdxedpeydqpxjz.yrpx,dkqydMdumccdjbacrmp
mydrccdyedgeqdmpdheexdymlj dKjcmjtjdlj,dyfm.dneqzpjgdyedArzm.dm.
pjoj..rzg dMd.frccdpeydkjdrurgdceph dMpdrccdazekrkmcmygdMd.frcc
zjyqzpdyelezzeu dMdxedpeydazeae.jdyfrydgeqd.feqcxdrooelarpg
lj dZjlrmpdfjzjdrpxdvjjadrpdjgjdepdHmzrqx dRc.edoqcymtryjdyfj
.eomjygdeidL dZjprqcxd_imc._ dRpxdyfmzxcg,dmidgeqdum.f,djpxjrteqz
yedoqydfmldeqydumyfdLrxjlem.jccjdLrzyfj dKqydMdijrzdgeqdumccdpey
frtjdhzjryd.qooj.. "

Mdxmxdpeydwqmyjdzjcm.fdyfjdcr.ydzjlrzv 

"Yfrydzjlmpx.dlj,"dMd.rmx d"Mdljrpydyedr.vdgeqdfeudgeqdvpjudrkeqy
yfe.jdyue?"

"_Lepdrlm_--Mdvpeudfqlrpdpryqzj dYfzeudyehjyfjzdrdkegdgeqphdZjprqcx
rpxdrdkjrqymiqcdhmzcdcmvjdLrxjlem.jccjdLrzyfj,drpxdyfjdzj.qcydm.
rcle.ydmpjtmyrkcj ddYfjp,dyfjdwqrzzjc!dMydur.dlepjgdezdrduelrpdrpx,
zjljlkjzmphdCéepmj'.dxj.ozmaymepdeidyfjdcrx'.drphjz,dMdxjomxjxdep
yfjdcryyjz d.edMdlrxjdlgdhqj..—rpxdMdur.dzmhfy "

"Rpxdyfrydur.dufgdgeqdurzpjxdljdrhrmp.yd.jyymphdlgdfjrzydepdyfj
crxg?dGeqdrczjrxgd.q.ajoyjxdyfryd.fjdcetjxdgeqphdZjprqcx?"

Aemzeyd.lmcjx 

"Rydrpgdzryj,--_Md.rudyfryd.fjdfrxdrpbmeq.djgj. _dYfrydm.dfeu
rcurg.dyfmpvdeidLrxjlem.jccjdXrqkzjqmcd_r.dyfjdhmzcdumyfdyfjdrpbmeq.
jgj. d d d _"

Fm.dtemojdur.d.edhzrtjdyfrydmydmlazj..jxdljdqpoeliezyrkcg 

"Ufrydxedgeqdljrpdkgdyfry,dAemzey?"

"Mdirpog,dlgdizmjpx,dyfrydujd.frccd.jjdkjiezjdtjzgdceph dKqydM
lq.yd.yrzy "

"Geq'tjdeojrp.deidymlj "

"Ajzfra.--ajzfra. dKqydMdcmvjdacjpygdeidcjm.qzjdrydyfjd.yrymep dM
xedpeydum.fdyedzq.f,dyedfqzzg,dyedjbomyjdlg.jci "

"Rydrccdjtjpy.,"dMd.rmx,dzm.mph,d"Mdumccdoeljdrpxd.jjdgeqdeii "

"Geqdumccdxedpeyfmphdeidyfjd.ezy dMdiezkmxdmy "

Fjdur.d.edajzjlayezgdyfrydMd.yrzjxdrydfmldmpd.qzazm.j ddFjdpexxjx
jlafrymorccg 

"Mdljrpdmy,d_lepdrlm_ dRqdzjtemz!dGeqdajzlmydyfrydMdjlkzrojdgeq?dRf,
pe,dMdiezhjydyfrydmydm.dpeydyfjdJphcm.fdoq.yel dQpjdaemhpjjdxj
lrmp,drcez. "

Mdijcydzryfjzdrydrdcee.jdjpxdriyjzdAemzeydfrxdcjiydlj ddMd.yzeccjx
xeupdyfjdkjrof,drpxduryofjxdyfjdkryfjz.,dumyfeqydijjcmphdjpjzhjymo
jpeqhfdyednempdyfjl dMdzryfjzdirpomjxdyfrydOmpxjzjccrdlmhfydkj
xm.aezymphdfjz.jcidrleph.ydyfjldmpd.eljduepxjziqcdoe.yqlj,dkqydM
.rudped.mhp.deidfjz dMd.yzeccjxdrmlcj..cgdrcephdyfjd.rpx.dyeurzx.
yfjdiqzyfjzdjpxdeidyfjdyeup dMydeooqzzjxdyedljdyfry,driyjzdrcc,
mydueqcxdepcgdkjdxjojpydijjcmphdepdlgdarzydyedmpwqmzjdriyjzdyfj
hmzc dRpxdmydueqcxd.rtjdyzeqkcjdmpdyfjdjpx dYfjdlryyjzdueqcxdyfjpdkj
impm.fjxdumyf dYfjzjdueqcxdkjdpedpjjxdiezdljdyedyzeqkcjdrkeqydfjz
rpgdiqzyfjz dKqy,dmidMdxmxdpeydhedrydrcc,d.fjdlmhfydwqmyjdae..mkcg
oeljdrpxdceevdljdqadrydyfjdTmccr dRpxdyfrydueqcxdkjdrppegmphdmp
jtjzgdurg dXjomxjxcgdmydueqcxdkjdkjyyjzdyedargdrd.fezydorcc,dmp
yfjdoeqz.jdeidufmofdMdoeqcxdlrvjdmydwqmyjdocjrzdyfrydMdoeqcxdxe
peyfmphdiqzyfjzdiezdfjzdmpdlgdoraromygdeid.feulrp 

RooezxmphcgdMdcjiydyfjdkjrof,drpxdurcvjxdmpcrpx dMd.eepdieqpxdyfj
FôyjcdxqdAfrzj,drdtjzgdqpazjyjpymeq.dkqmcxmph dMydur.drppegmphdmp
yfjdjbyzjljdpeydyedvpeudyfjdcrxg'.dprljdrpx,dyed.rtjdlgdxmhpmyg,
Mdxjomxjxdyed.yzeccdmp.mxjdrpxdceevdrzeqpx dAzekrkcgdMd.feqcxdimpx
fjzdmpdyfjdceqphj dLjzcmptmccjdur.drd.lrccdacroj,dgeqdcjiydgeqz
feyjcdyedhedyedyfjdkjrof,drpxdgeqdcjiydyfjdkjrofdyedzjyqzpdyedyfj
feyjc dYfjzjdujzjdpedeyfjzdryyzroymep. ddYfjzjdur.drdOr.mpedkjmph
kqmcy,dkqydmydur.dpeydgjydoelacjyjx 

Mdfrxdurcvjxdyfjdcjphyfdeidyfjdkjrofdumyfeqyd.jjmphdfjz,dyfjzjiezj
.fjdlq.ydkjdmpdyfjdfeyjc dMdujpydmp d.jtjzrcdajeacjdujzjd.myymphdmp
yfjdympgdceqphj,dkqydlgdwqrzzgdur.dpeydrleph.ydyfjl dMdceevjxdmpye
.eljdeyfjzdzeel.,dkqydyfjzjdur.dped.mhpdeidfjz dMdurmyjxdiezd.elj
ymlj,dymccdlgdmlarymjpojdheydyfjdkjyyjzdeidlj dMdyeevdyfjdoepomjzhj
r.mxj,drpxd.cmaajxdimtjdizrpo.dmpyedfm.dfrpx 

"Mdum.fdyed.jjdrdcrxgdufedm.d.yrgmphdfjzj dRdgeqphdJphcm.fdcrxg,
.lrccdrpxdxrzv dMdrldpeyd.qzjdeidfjzdprlj "

Yfjdlrpd.feevdfm.dfjrx,drpxd.jjljxdyedkjd.qaazj..mphdrdhzmp 

"Yfjzjdm.dped.qofdcrxgdr.dgeqdxj.ozmkjd.yrgmphdfjzj "

".fjdm.dRljzmorpdae..mkcg,"dMd.qhhj.yjx dYfj.jdijcceu.drzjd.ed.yqamx 

Kqydyfjdlrpdoepympqjxdyed.frvjdfm.dfjrx 

"Pe,dlep.mjqz dYfjzjdrzjdepcgd.mbdezd.jtjpdJphcm.fdrpxdRljzmorp
crxmj.drcyehjyfjz,drpxdyfjgdrzjdrccdlqofdecxjzdyfrpdyfjdcrxgdgeq
rzjd.jjvmph dMydm.dpeydfjzjdyfrydgeqdumccdimpxdfjz,dlep.mjqz "

Fjdur.d.edae.mymtjdyfrydMdijcydxeqky. 

"Kqydyfjdcrxgdyecxdljd.fjdur.d.yrgmphdfjzj "

"Lep.mjqzdlq.ydfrtjdlrxjdrdlm.yrvj--ezdmydm.dlezjdcmvjcgdyfjdcrxg
xmx,d.mpojdyfjzjdfr.dkjjpdrpeyfjzdhjpycjlrpdfjzjdmpwqmzmphdiezdfjz "

"Ufrydm.dyfrydgeqd.rg?"dMdozmjx,d.qzazm.jx 

"Kqydgj.,dlep.mjqz dRdhjpycjlrpdufedxj.ozmkjxdfjzdnq.ydr.dgeq
frtjdxepj "

"Ufrydur.dfjdcmvj?"

"Fjdur.drd.lrccdhjpycjlrp,dujccdxzj..jx,dtjzgdpjry,dtjzgd.aeycj..,
yfjdleq.yrofjdtjzgd.ymii,dyfjdfjrxdeidrdajoqcmrzd.fraj,drpxdyfj
jgj.dhzjjp "

Aemzey!d.edyfrydur.dufgdfjdzjiq.jxdyedcjydljdrooelarpgdfmldyedyfj
.yrymep dYfjdmlajzympjpojdeidmy!dMdueqcxdyfrpvdfmldpeydyedljxxcj
mpdlgdoepojzp. dXmxdfjdirpogdMdpjjxjxdrdpqz.jdyedceevdriyjzdlj?
Yfrpvmphdyfjdlrp,dMdxjarzyjx,d.eljufrydrydrdce..,drpxd.ymccdlqof
mpojp.jxdumyfdlgdljxxcj.eljdizmjpx dMdzjhzjyyjxdyfrydfjdur.,diez
yfjdleljpy,deqydeidzjrof dMd.feqcxdfrtjdjpnegjxdyjccmphdfmldufry
Mdyfeqhfydeidfm.dqpurzzrpyjxdmpyjzijzjpoj dFrxdMdpeydxm.ympoycg
yecxdfmldyfrydMdfrxdpedmpyjpymepdeid.jjmphdyfjdhmzc?dXjomxjxcg,
epj'.dizmjpx.dorpdkjdyeedsjrceq.!

Kqydufjzjdur.dyfjdcrxg?dMd.jydr.mxjdlgduzryf,drpxdyzmjxdyedaqsscj
mydeqy dJtmxjpycg,dyfzeqhfdmprxtjzyjpoj,d.fjdfrxdprljxdyfjduzeph
feyjc dYfjpdrpeyfjzdyfeqhfyd.yzqovdlj dUr.dmydmprxtjzyjpoj?dEzdfrx
.fjdxjcmkjzryjcgdumyffjcxdfjzdprljdrpxdhmtjpdljdyfjduzephdrxxzj..?
YfjdlezjdMdyfeqhfydrkeqydmy,dyfjdlezjdMdijcydoeptmpojxdyfrydyfm.dcr.y
.qzlm.jdeidlmpjdur.dzmhfy dIezd.eljdzjr.epdezdeyfjzd.fjdxmxdpeydum.f
yedcjydyfjdrowqrmpyrpojdzmajpdmpyedizmjpx.fma dRpxdyfeqhfdfrcidrp
feqzdjrzcmjzdyfm.dfrxdkjjpdazjom.jcgdlgdeupdtmju,dMdxmxdpeydjpneg
frtmphdyfjdyrkcj.dyqzpjxdqaepdlj dYfjdufecjdriirmzdur.dazeieqpxcg
qp.rym.iroyezg,drpxdMdujpydqadyedyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètjdmpdrdoepxmymep
eidxm.ympoydmccdfqleqz dMdxmxdpeydhedyedyfjdfeq.j,dkqydujpydqadyfj
aryfdyedyfjdcmyycjdkjpofdkgdyfjd.fjx,drpxd.rydyfjzjdleexmcgdjpeqhf 

Mdur.dxm.yzroyjxdizeldlgdyfeqhfy.dkgdyfjd.eqpxdeidtemoj.doce.j
rydfrpx dMpdrd.joepxdezdyuedMdzjrcmsjxdyfrydyfjgdorlj,dpeydizel
yfjdhrzxjpdMdur.dmp,dkqydizeldyfjdrxnempmphdhrzxjpdeidyfjdTmccr
Lrzhqjzmyj,drpxdyfrydyfjgdujzjdraazerofmphdzramxcg dRdhmzc'.dtemoj
ur.d.ajrvmph,drdtemojdyfrydMdzjoehpmsjxdr.dyfrydeidyfjdkjrqymiqc
Lrzyfj 

"_Ofézm_,"d.fjdur.d.rgmph,d"m.dmydzjrccgdyzqj?dRzjdrccdeqz
yzeqkcj.detjz "

"Geqdvpeudmy,dLrzyfj,"dNrovdZjprqcxdzjacmjx dd"Peyfmphdorpdarzydq.
peu,dkjcetjx dYfjdcr.ydek.yrocjdyedeqzdqpmepdm.dzjletjx dPeyfmph
orpdyrvjdgeqdizeldlj "

"Peyfmph?"dyfjdhmzcdlqzlqzjx d"Ef,dNrov,dNrov--Mdrldrizrmx "

Mdfrxdletjxdyedxjarzy,dzjrcmsmphdyfrydMdur.dwqmyjdqpmpyjpymeprccg
jrtj.xzeaamph dR.dMdze.jdyedlgdijjy,dMdorqhfyd.mhfydeidyfjldyfzeqhf
rdhradmpdyfjdfjxhj dYfjgd.yeexdyehjyfjzdiromphdlj,dyfjdlrp'.drzl
zeqpxdyfjdhmzc,dfm.djgj.dceevmphdmpyedfjz. dYfjgdujzjdrd.acjpxmx
ceevmphdoeqacj,dyfjdxrzv,dujcc-vpmydkeg,drpxdyfjdirmzdgeqphdhexxj.. 
Yfjgd.jjljxdlrxjdiezdjrofdeyfjzdr.dyfjgd.yeexdyfjzj,dfraagdmpd.amyj
eidyfjdyjzzmkcjdyzrhjxgdyfrydetjz.frxeujxdyfjmzdgeqphdcmtj. 

Kqydyfjdhmzc'.dirojdur.dyzeqkcjx,drpxdNrovdZjprqcxd.jjljxdye
zjoehpmsjdmy,dr.dfjdfjcxdfjzdoce.jzdyedfmldrpxdr.vjx:

"Kqydufrydrzjdgeqdrizrmxdei,dxrzcmph?dUfrydm.dyfjzjdyedijrz--peu?"

RpxdyfjpdMd.rudyfjdceevdmpdfjzdjgj.,dyfjdceevdAemzeydfrxd.aevjpdei,
r.d.fjdlqzlqzjx,d.edyfrydMdrcle.ydhqj..jxdrydyfjduezx. 

"Mdrldrizrmx--iezd_geq_ d d d "

MdxmxdpeydfjrzdgeqphdZjprqcx'.drp.ujz,diezdlgdryyjpymepdur.
xm.yzroyjxdkgdrpdqpq.qrcdraajrzrpojdrdcmyycjdiqzyfjzdxeupdyfj
fjxhj dYfjzjdraajrzjxdyedkjdrdkzeupdkq.fdyfjzj,dufmofd.jjljxdexx,
yed.rgdyfjdcjr.ydeidmy,d.edjrzcgdmpdyfjd.qlljz dMd.yjaajxdrceph
yedmptj.ymhryj,dkqy,drydlgdrxtrpoj,dyfjdkzeupdkq.fdumyfxzjudmy.jci
azjomamyryjcg,drpxdirojxdljdumyfdrdimphjzdyedmy.dcma. dMydur.dHmzrqx 

Jpnempmphdorqymep,dfjdcjxdyfjdurgdzeqpxdyfjd.fjxdqpymcdujdujzjdeqy
eidjrz-.fey 

"Ufrydujzjdgeqdxemphdyfjzj?"dMdr.vjx 

"Jbroycgdufrydgeqdujzjdxemph--cm.yjpmph "

"KqydMdur.dpeydyfjzjdepdaqzae.j!"

"Rf!"d.rmxdHmzrqx d"Mdur. "

R.drcurg.,dMdrxlmzjxdyfjdlrpdufmc.ydxm.cmvmphdfml ddFjdceevjxdlj
qadrpxdxeupdumyfdrd.ezydeidoepyjlayqeq.dxm.irteqz 

"Geqdxmxp'ydfjcadlryyjz.dkgdkqyymphdmp dMdlmhfydfrtjdfjrzxd.eljyfmph
q.jiqcdmpdrdlmpqyj dUfrydfrtjdgeqdxepjdumyfdgeqzdecxdie..mc?"

"L dAemzeydfr.dhepjdyedArzm.,"dMdzjacmjxdoecxcg 

"RpxdMdorpdyjccdgeq,dL dHmzrqx,dyfrydfjdm.drpgyfmphdkqydrpdecx
ie..mc dFjdfr.d.ectjxdlrpgdor.j.dyfrydfrtjdoelacjyjcgdkriicjxdyfj
Jphcm.fdaecmoj "

"Krf!dYfjdJphcm.fdaecmoj!"dHmzrqxd.praajxdfm.dimphjz.
xm.xrmpiqccg d"Yfjgdlq.ydkjdepdrdcjtjcdumyfdeqzdjbrlmpmph
lrhm.yzryj. d.edfjdfr.dhepjdyedArzm.,dfr.dfj?ddUjcc,drdheex
yfmph dYfjdcephjzdfjd.yrg.dyfjzj,dyfjdkjyyjz ddKqydufrydxej.dfj
yfmpvdfjdumccdimpxdyfjzj?"

MdyfeqhfydMdzjrxdmpdyfjdwqj.ymepdrdymphjdeidqpjr.mpj.. ddMdxzju
lg.jcidqa 

"YfrydMdrldpeydrydcmkjzygdyed.rg,"dMd.rmxdwqmjycg 

Hmzrqxd.qknjoyjxdljdyedrdamjzomphd.yrzj 

"Fjdfr.dazekrkcgdjpeqhfd.jp.jdpeydyedyjccd_geq_,"dfjdzjlrzvjx
zqxjcg d"Heexdriyjzpeep dM'ldkq.g "

Rpxdumyfdyfry,dfjdyqzpjxdepdfm.dfjjc,drpxdcjiydljdumyfeqy
ojzjlepg dLryyjz.d.jjljxdrydrd.yrpx.ymccdrydyfjdTmccr
Hjpjtmètj dHmzrqxdjtmxjpycgdxmxdpeydxj.mzjdlgdoelarpgdrpx,dizel
ufrydMdfrxd.jjp,dmyd.jjljxdirmzcgdojzyrmpdyfrydNrovdZjprqcxdxmx
peydjmyfjz 

Mdujpydkrovdyedyfjdyeup,dfrxdrpdjpnegrkcjdkryfdrpxdzjyqzpjxdyedyfj
feyjc dMdyqzpjxdmpdjrzcg,duepxjzmphdufjyfjzdyfjdiecceumphdxrgdueqcx
kzmphdiezyfdrpgyfmphdeidmpyjzj.y 

Mdur.dufeccgdqpazjarzjxdiezdufrydmydxmxdkzmphdiezyf dMdur.
jrymphdlgdajymydxénjqpjzdmpdyfjdxmpmph-zeel,dufjpdyfjdurmyjz,
ufedfrxdkjjpdyrcvmphdyed.eljdepjdeqy.mxj,dorljdkrovdmpdektmeq.
jbomyjljpy dFjdfj.myryjxdiezdrdlmpqyj,dimxhjymphdumyfdfm.dpravmp,
rpxdyfjpdkqz.ydeqy 

"Lep.mjqzdumccdarzxepdlj,dkqydfjdm.doeppjoyjx,dm.dfjdpey,dumyfdyfj
riirmzdrydyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj?'

"Gj.,"dMd.rmxdjrhjzcg d"Ufg?"

"Lep.mjqzdfr.dpeydfjrzxdyfjdpju.,dyfeqhf?"

"Ufrydpju.?"

"Yfrydyfjzjdfr.dkjjpdrpeyfjzdlqzxjzdyfjzjdcr.ydpmhfy!"

"_Ufry?_"

Cjrtmphdlgdkzjrvir.y,dMdorqhfydqadlgdfrydrpxdzrpdr.dir.ydr.dM
oeqcx dRpeyfjzdlqzxjz--rpxdAemzeydrurg!ddUfrydiryrcmyg dKqydufe
frxdkjjpdlqzxjzjx?

Mdxr.fjxdmpdrydyfjdhryj dRdhzeqadeidyfjd.jztrpy.dur.dmpdyfjdxzmtj,
yrcvmphdrpxdhj.ymoqcrymph dMdorqhfydfecxdeidIzrpçem.j 

"Ufrydfr.dfraajpjx?"

"Ef,dlep.mjqz!dlep.mjqz!dRpeyfjzdxjryf!dMydm.dyjzzmkcj ddYfjzjdm.
rdoqz.jdqaepdyfjdfeq.j dKqydgj.,dMd.rgdmy,drdoqz.j!dYfjgd.feqcx
.jpxdiezdL dcjdoqzédyedkzmphd.eljdfecgduryjz dPjtjzdumccdMd.cjja
rpeyfjzdpmhfydqpxjzdyfrydzeei dMydlmhfydkjdlgdyqzp,dufedvpeu.?"

.fjdoze..jxdfjz.jci 

"Gj.,"dMdozmjx,d"kqydufedfr.dkjjpdvmccjx?"

"XedMdvpeu--lj?dRdlrp--rd.yzrphjz dYfjgdieqpxdfmldqadyfjzj--mpdyfj
.fjx--peydrdfqpxzjxdgrzx.dizeldufjzjdyfjgdieqpxdaeezdLep.mjqz dRpx
yfrydm.dpeydrcc ddFjdm.d.yrkkjx--.yrkkjxdyedyfjdfjrzyd_umyfdyfj
.rljdxrhhjz_!"




14

Yfjd.joepxdKexg


Urmymphdiezdpedlezj,dMdyqzpjxdrpxdzrpdqadyfjdaryfdyedyfjd.fjx dYfj
yuedljpdepdhqrzxdyfjzjd.yeexdr.mxjdyedcjydljdar..drpx,dimccjxdumyf
jbomyjljpy,dMdjpyjzjx 

Yfjdcmhfydur.dxml,dyfjdacrojdur.drdljzjdzeqhfdueexjpdjzjoymepdye
vjjadecxdaey.drpxdyeec.dmp dMdfrxdjpyjzjxdmlajyqeq.cg,dkqydepdyfj
yfzj.fecxdMdofjovjxdlg.jci,dir.ompryjxdkgdyfjd.ajoyrocjdkjiezjdlj 

Hmzrqxdur.depdfm.dfrpx.drpxdvpjj.,drdaeovjydyezofdmpdfm.dfrpxdumyf
ufmofdfjdur.djbrlmpmphdjtjzgdmpofdeidyfjdhzeqpx dFjdceevjxdqadumyf
rdizeupdrydlgdjpyzrpoj,dyfjpdfm.dirojdzjcrbjxdrdcmyycjdmpdrd.ezy
eidheex-fqleqzjxdoepyjlay 

"Rf,d_o'j.ydc'Rphcrm._!dJpyjzdyfjp dCjydq.d.jjdufrydgeqdorpdlrvj
eidyfm.driirmz "

Zryfjzd.yqphdkgdfm.dyepj,dMd.yeeajxdlgdfjrx,drpxdar..jxdmp 

"Yfjzjdfjdm.,"d.rmxdHmzrqx,dicr.fmphdfm.dyezofdyedyfjdirzdoezpjz 

Md.yjaajxdroze.. 

Yfjdxjrxdlrpdcrgd.yzrmhfydqaepdfm.dkrov dFjdur.deidljxmqldfjmhfy,
.urzyfgdeidoelacjbmep,drpxdae..mkcgdrkeqydimiygdgjrz.deidrhj dFjdur.
pjrycgdxzj..jxdmpdrdxrzvdkcqjd.qmy,dujccdoqydrpxdazekrkcgdlrxjdkg
rpdjbajp.mtjdyrmcez,dkqydpeydpju dFm.dirojdur.dyjzzmkcgdoeptqc.jx,
rpxdepdfm.dcjiyd.mxj,dnq.ydetjzdyfjdfjrzy,dyfjdfmcydeidrdxrhhjz
.yeexdqa,dkcrovdrpxd.fmpmph dMdzjoehpmsjxdmy dMydur.dyfjd.rljdxrhhjz
Mdfrxd.jjpdzjae.mphdmpdyfjdhcr..dnrzdyfjdazjojxmphdlezpmph!

"M'ldjbajoymphdyfjdxeoyezdrpgdlmpqyj,"djbacrmpjxdHmzrqx d"Rcyfeqhf
ujdfrzxcgdpjjxdfml dYfjzj'.dpedxeqkydufrydyfjdlrpdxmjxdei dFj
ur.d.yrkkjxdyedyfjdfjrzy,drpxdxjryfdlq.ydfrtjdkjjpdazjyygdujcc
mp.yrpyrpjeq. "

"Ufjpdur.dmydxepj?dCr.ydpmhfy?"

Hmzrqxd.feevdfm.dfjrx 

"Frzxcg dMdxep'ydcrgdxeupdyfjdcrudepdljxmorcdjtmxjpoj,dkqydyfj
lrp'.dkjjpdxjrxdujccdetjzdyujctjdfeqz. ddUfjpdxedgeqd.rgdgeqdcr.y
.rudyfrydxrhhjz?"

"Rkeqydyjpde'oceovdgj.yjzxrgdlezpmph "

"YfjpdMd.feqcxdkjdmpocmpjxdyedimbdyfjdozmljdr.dkjmphdxepjdpeydceph
riyjzdyfry "

"Kqydajeacjdujzjdar..mphdrpxdzjar..mphdyfm.d.fjxdoepympqrccg "

Hmzrqxdcrqhfjxdxm.rhzjjrkcg 

"Geqdazehzj..dyedrdlrztjc!dUfedyecxdgeqdfjdur.dvmccjxdmpdyfm.d.fjx?"

"Ujcc--"dMdijcydicq.yjzjx d"M--Mdr..qljxdmy "

"Ef,dufrydrdimpjdxjyjoymtj!dCeevdrydfml,d_lepdajymy_--xej.drdlrp
.yrkkjxdyedyfjdfjrzydirccdcmvjdyfry--pjrycgdumyfdfm.dijjydyehjyfjz,
rpxdfm.drzl.dyedfm.d.mxj?dPe ddRhrmpdxej.drdlrpdcmjdxeupdepdfm.
krovdrpxdajzlmydfml.jcidyedkjd.yrkkjxdumyfeqydzrm.mphdrdfrpxdye
xjijpxdfml.jci?dMydm.drk.qzx,dm.dmydpey?dKqyd.jjdfjzj--rpxdfjzj--"
Fjdicr.fjxdyfjdyezofdrcephdyfjdhzeqpx dMd.rudoqzmeq.dmzzjhqcrz
lrzv.dmpdyfjd.eiydxmzy d"Fjdur.dxzrhhjxdfjzjdriyjzdfjdur.dxjrx dFrci
xzrhhjx,dfrcidorzzmjxdkgdyuedajeacj dYfjmzdyzrov.dxedpeyd.feudepdyfj
frzxdhzeqpxdeqy.mxj,drpxdfjzjdyfjgdfrtjdkjjpdorzjiqcdyedekcmyjzryj
yfjl--kqydepjdeidyfjdyuedur.drduelrp,dlgdgeqphdizmjpx "

"Rduelrp?"

"Gj. "

"Kqydmidyfjdyzrov.drzjdekcmyjzryjx,dfeudxedgeqdvpeu?"

"Kjorq.j,dkcqzzjxdr.dyfjgdrzj,dyfjdazmpy.deidyfjduelrp'.d.fejdrzj
qplm.yrvrkcj dRc.e,dkgd_yfm._--"dRpx,dcjrpmphdiezurzx,dfjdxzju
.eljyfmphdizeldyfjdfrpxcjdeidyfjdxrhhjzdrpxdfjcxdmydqadiezdljdye
.jj dMydur.drduelrp'.dcephdkcrovdfrmz--.mlmcrzdyedyfjdepjdAemzey
frxdyrvjpdizeldyfjdrzl-ofrmzdmpdyfjdcmkzrzg 

Umyfdrd.cmhfycgdmzepmod.lmcjdfjdueqpxdmydzeqpxdyfjdxrhhjzdrhrmp 

"Ujdumccdcjrtjdyfmph.dr.dyfjgdrzjdr.dlqofdr.dae..mkcj,"dfj
jbacrmpjx d"Mydacjr.j.dyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj dd_Jfdkmjp_,dxe
geqdpeymojdrpgyfmphdjc.j?"

Mdur.diezojxdyed.frvjdlgdfjrx 

"Ceevdrydfm.dfrpx. "

Mdxmx dYfjdprmc.dujzjdkzevjpdrpxdxm.oeceqzjx,drpxdyfjd.vmpdur.
frzx dMydfrzxcgdjpcmhfyjpjxdljdr.dlqofdr.dMd.feqcxdfrtjdcmvjxdmy
yedfrtjdxepj dMdceevjxdqadrydHmzrqx 

"Yfjgdrzjdpeydyfjdfrpx.deidrdhjpycjlrp,"dfjd.rmx,drp.ujzmphdlg
ceev d"Epdyfjdoepyzrzgdfm.doceyfj.drzjdyfe.jdeidrdujcc-ye-xe
lrp dYfrydm.doqzmeq.,dm.dmydpey?"

"Tjzgdoqzmeq.,"dMdrhzjjx 

"Rpxdpepjdeidfm.doceyfmphdm.dlrzvjx dUfrydxedujdcjrzpdizeldyfry?dYfm.
lrpdur.dyzgmphdyedar..dfml.jcideiidr.deyfjzdyfrpdfjdur. dFjdur.
lr.wqjzrxmph dUfg?dXmxdfjdijrzd.eljyfmph?dUr.dfjdyzgmphdyedj.oraj
kgdxm.hqm.mphdfml.jci?dR.dgjydujdxedpeydvpeu,dkqydepjdyfmphduj
xedvpeu--fjdur.dr.drpbmeq.dyedoepojrcdfm.dmxjpymygdr.dujdrzjdye
xm.oetjzdmy "

Fjdceevjxdxeupdrydyfjdkexgdrhrmp 

"R.dkjiezjdyfjzjdrzjdpedimphjz-azmpy.depdyfjdfrpxcjdeidyfj
xrhhjz dYfjdlqzxjzjzdrhrmpduezjdhcetj. "

"Geqdyfmpv,dyfjp,dyfrydyfjdlqzxjzjzdur.dyfjd.rljdmpdkeyfdor.j.?"dM
r.vjxdjrhjzcg 

Hmzrqxdkjorljdmp.ozqyrkcj 

"PjtjzdlmpxdufrydMdyfmpv dUjd.frccd.jj dLrzofrqx!"

Yfjd_.jzhjpydxjdtmccj_draajrzjxdrydyfjdxeezurg 

"Lep.mjqz?"

"Ufgdm.dLrxrljdZjprqcxdpeydfjzj?dMd.jpydiezdfjzdrdwqrzyjzdeidrp
feqzdrhe?"

".fjdm.doelmphdqadyfjdaryfdpeu,dlep.mjqz,drpxdfjzd.epdumyfdfjz "

"Heex dMdepcgdurpydepjdrydrdymlj,dyfeqhf "

Lrzofrqxd.rcqyjxdrpxdxm.raajrzjxdrhrmp dRdleljpydcryjzdfjdzjraajrzjx
umyfdLz. dZjprqcx 

"Fjzjdm.dLrxrlj "

Hmzrqxdorljdiezurzxdumyfdrdoqzydkeu 

"Yfm.durg,dlrxrlj "dFjdcjxdfjzdroze..,drpxdyfjp,d.yrpxmphd.qxxjpcg
r.mxj d"Fjzjdm.dyfjdlrp dXedgeqdvpeudfml?"

Rpxdr.dfjd.aevj,dfm.djgj.,dhmlcjy-cmvj,dkezjxdmpyedfjzdiroj,
.jjvmphdyedzjrxdfjzdlmpx,dpeymphdjtjzgdmpxmorymepdeidfjzdlrppjz 

KqydLz. dZjprqcxdzjlrmpjxdajzijoycgdorcl--yeedorcl,dMdijcy d.fj
ceevjxdxeupdrydyfjdoeza.jdrcle.ydumyfeqydmpyjzj.y,dojzyrmpcgdumyfeqy
rpgd.mhpdeidrhmyrymepdezdzjoehpmymep 

"Pe,"d.fjd.rmx d"Mdfrtjdpjtjzd.jjpdfmldmpdlgdcmij dFjdm.dwqmyjdr
.yzrphjzdyedlj "

"Geqdrzjd.qzj?"

"Wqmyjd.qzj "

"Geqdxedpeydzjoehpmsjdmpdfmldepjdeidgeqzdr..rmcrpy.,diezdmp.yrpoj?"

"Pe,"d.fjd.jjljxdyedfj.myryj,dr.dyfeqhfd.yzqovdkgdyfjdmxjr d"Pe,dMdxe
peydyfmpvd.e dEidoeqz.jdyfjgduezjdkjrzx.--irc.jdepj.dyfjdjbrlmpmph
lrhm.yzryjdyfeqhfy,dkqyd.ymcc--pe "dPeud.fjd.jjljxdyedlrvjdfjzdlmpx
qadxjimpmyjcg d"Mdrld.qzjdpjmyfjzdeidyfjdyuedur.dyfm.dlrp "

"Tjzgdujcc,dlrxrlj dYfrydm.drcc,dyfjp "

.fjd.yjaajxdeqydumyfdfjrxdjzjoy,dyfjd.qpdicr.fmphdepdyfjd.mctjz
yfzjrx.dmpdfjzdfrmz dNrovdZjprqcxd.qoojjxjxdfjz dFj,dyee,dirmcjx
yedmxjpymigdyfjdlrp,dmpdrdoelacjyjcgdpryqzrcdlrppjz 

Hmzrqxdljzjcgdhzqpyjx dUfjyfjzdfjdur.dacjr.jxdezdofrhzmpjxdMdoeqcx
peydyjcc dFjdljzjcgdorccjxdyedLrzofrqx:

"Geqdfrtjdheydyfjdeyfjzdyfjzj?"

"Gj.,dlep.mjqz "

"Kzmphdfjzdmpdyfjp "

"Yfjdeyfjz"dur.dLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc d.fjdorljdmpxmhprpycg,dazeyj.ymph
umyfdtjfjljpoj 

"Mdeknjoy,dlep.mjqz!dYfm.dm.drpdeqyzrhj!dUfrydfrtjdMdyedxedumyf
rccdyfm.?"

"Lrxrlj,"d.rmxdHmzrqxdkzqyrccg,d"Mdrldmptj.ymhrymphdpeydepjdlqzxjz,
kqydyuedlqzxjz.!dIezdrccdMdvpeudgeqdlrgdfrtjdoellmyyjxdyfjldkeyf "

"Feudxrzjdgeq?"d.fjdozmjx d"Feudxrzjdgeqdmp.qcydljdkgd.qofdrdumcx
rooq.rymep!dMydm.dmpirleq. "

"Mpirleq.,dm.dmy?dUfrydrkeqydyfm.?"d.yeeamph,dfjdrhrmpdxjyrofjx
yfjdfrmz,drpxdfjcxdmydqa d"Xedgeqd.jjdyfm.,dlrxrlj?"dFjdrxtrpojx
yeurzx.dfjz d"GeqdajzlmydyfrydMd.jjdufjyfjzdmydlryofj.?"

Umyfdrdozgd.fjd.yrzyjxdkrovurzx.,dufmyjdyedyfjdcma. 

"Mydm.dirc.j--Md.ujrzdmy dMdvpeudpeyfmphdeidyfjdozmlj--eidjmyfjz
ozmlj dRpgdepjdufed.rg.dMdxedcmj.!dRf!d_lepdXmjq_,dufryd.frccdMdxe?"

"Orcldgeqz.jci,dlrxrlj,"d.rmxdHmzrqxdoecxcg d"Pedepjdfr.drooq.jx
geqdr.dgjy dKqydgeqdumccdxedujccdyedrp.ujzdlgdwqj.ymep.dumyfeqy
lezjdrxe "

"Rpgyfmphdgeqdum.f,dlep.mjqz "

"Ceevdrydyfjdxjrxdlrp dFrtjdgeqdjtjzd.jjpdfmldkjiezj?"

Xzrumphdpjrzjz,drdcmyycjdeidyfjdoeceqzdozjjamphdkrovdyedfjzdiroj,
LrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdceevjxdxeupdrydyfjdtmoymldumyfdrdojzyrmpdrleqpy
eidmpyjzj.ydrpxdoqzme.myg dYfjpd.fjd.feevdfjzdfjrx 

"Mdxedpeydvpeudfml "

Myd.jjljxdmlae..mkcjdyedxeqkydfjz,dyfjduezx.dorljd.e
pryqzrccg dHmzrqxdxm.lm..jxdfjzdumyfdrdpexdeidyfjdfjrx dd"Geqdrzj
cjyymphdfjzdhe?"dMdr.vjxdmpdrdceudtemoj d"M.dyfrydum.j?d.qzjcgdyfry
kcrovdfrmzdm.dizeldfjzdfjrx "

"Mdxedpeydpjjxdyjrofmphdlgdkq.mpj..,"d.rmxdHmzrqxdxzgcg d".fjdm.
qpxjzd.qztjmccrpoj dMdfrtjdpedum.fdyedrzzj.ydfjzdr.dgjy "

Yfjp,dizeupmph,dfjdhrsjxdxeupdrydyfjdkexg 

".feqcxdgeqd.rgdyfrydur.drd.arpm.fdygajdrydrcc?"dfjdr.vjxd.qxxjpcg 

Mdoep.mxjzjxdyfjdirojdorzjiqccg 

"Pe,"dMd.rmxdrydcr.y d"Md.feqcxdaqydfmldxeupdr.drdIzjpoflrpdle.y
xjomxjxcg "

Hmzrqxdhrtjdrdhzqpydeidxm..rym.iroymep 

".rljdfjzj "

Fjd.yeexdyfjzjdiezdrdleljpy,dyfjpdumyfdrpdmlajzrymtjdhj.yqzjdfj
urtjxdljdr.mxj,drpxdepojdlezj,depdfrpx.drpxdvpjj.,dfjdoepympqjx
fm.d.jrzofdeidyfjdiceezdeidyfjd.fjx dFjdur.dlrztjcceq. dPeyfmph
j.orajxdfml dMpofdkgdmpofdfjdujpydetjzdyfjdiceez,dyqzpmphdetjz
aey.,djbrlmpmphdecxd.rov. dFjdaeqpojxdepdrdkqpxcjdkgdyfjdxeez,
kqydmydazetjxdyedkjdepcgdrdzrhhjxdoerydrpxdyzeq.jz.,drpxdfjdicqph
mydxeupdrhrmpdumyfdrd.przc dYuedarmz.deidecxdhcetj.dmpyjzj.yjxdfml,
kqydmpdyfjdjpxdfjd.feevdfm.dfjrxdrpxdcrmxdyfjldr.mxj dYfjpdfjdujpy
krovdyedyfjdaey.,dljyfexmorccgdyqzpmphdyfjldetjzdepjdkgdepj dMp
yfjdjpx,dfjdze.jdyedfm.dijjy,drpxd.feevdfm.dfjrxdyfeqhfyiqccg dFj
.jjljxdkriicjxdrpxdajzacjbjx dMdyfmpvdfjdfrxdiezheyyjpdlgdazj.jpoj 

Kqy,drydyfrydleljpy,drd.ymzdrpxdkq.ycjdur.dfjrzxdeqy.mxj,drpxdeqz
ecxdizmjpx,dyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj,drooelarpmjxdkgdfm.docjzvdrpx
L dKjb,dumyfdyfjdxeoyezdkjfmpxdfml,dorljdkq.ycmphdmp 

"Kqydyfm.dm.djbyzrezxmprzg,dLz dHmzrqx,"dozmjxdL ddFrqyjy d"Rpeyfjz
ozmlj!dRf,dujdfrtjdpeydheydyedyfjdkeyyeldeidyfm.dor.j dYfjzjdm.
.eljdxjjadlg.yjzgdfjzj ddKqydufedm.dyfjdtmoymldyfm.dymlj?"

"Yfrydm.dnq.ydufrydpekexgdorpdyjccdq.,dL dcjdnqhj dFjdfr.dpey
kjjpdmxjpymimjx "

"Ufjzjdm.dyfjdkexg?"dr.vjxdyfjdxeoyez 

Hmzrqxdletjxdr.mxjdrdcmyycj 

"Yfjzjdmpdyfjdoezpjz dFjdfr.dkjjpd.yrkkjxdyedyfjdfjrzy,dr.dgeq
.jj dRpxdumyfdyfjdxrhhjzdyfrydur.d.yecjpdgj.yjzxrgdlezpmph dMdirpog
yfrydyfjdlqzxjzdiecceujxdfrzxdqaepdyfjdyfjiy--kqydyfrydm.diezdgeq
yed.rg dGeqdorpdfrpxcjdyfjdxrhhjzdizjjcg--yfjzjdrzjdpedimphjz-azmpy.
epdmy "

Yfjdxeoyezdvpjcydxeupdkgdyfjdxjrxdlrp,drpxdHmzrqxdyqzpjxdyedyfj
jbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj 

"Rdazjyygdcmyycjdazekcjl,dm.dmydpey?dKqydMd.frccd.ectjdmy "

"Rpxd.edpedepjdorpdmxjpymigdfml,"dlq.jxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj dd"Oeqcxdmy
ae..mkcgdkjdepjdeidyfjdr..r..mp.?dYfjgdlrgdfrtjdirccjpdeqydrleph
yfjl.jctj. "

Hmzrqxd.feevdfm.dfjrx 

"Yfjdlrpdm.drdIzjpoflrp--Mdueqcxdyrvjdlgderyfdeidyfry--"

Kqydrydyfrydleljpydyfjgdujzjdmpyjzzqayjxdkgdyfjdxeoyezdufedur.
.myymphdkrovdepdfm.dfjjc.dumyfdrdajzacjbjxdjbazj..mep 

"Geqd.rgdfjdur.dvmccjxdgj.yjzxrgdlezpmph?"

"Mdimbdmydkgdyfjdyfjiydeidyfjdxrhhjz,"djbacrmpjxdHmzrqx d"Fjdlrg,
eidoeqz.j,dfrtjdkjjpdvmccjxdcryjzdmpdyfjdxrg "

"Cryjzdmpdyfjdxrg?dImxxcj.ymov.!dYfm.dlrpdfr.dkjjpdxjrxdrydcjr.y
iezyg-jmhfydfeqz.,drpxdazekrkcgdcephjz "

Ujd.yrzjxdrydjrofdeyfjzdmpdkcrpvdrlrsjljpy 




15

RdAfeyehzraf


Yfjdxeoyez'.duezx.dujzjd.ed.qzazm.mphdyfrydujdujzjdrccdleljpyrzmcg
yrvjpdrkrov dFjzjdur.drdlrpd.yrkkjxdumyfdrdxrhhjzdufmofdujdvpju
yedfrtjdkjjpd.yecjpdepcgdyujpyg-ieqzdfeqz.dazjtmeq.cg,drpxdgjy
Xz dXqzrpxdr..jzyjxdae.mymtjcgdyfrydfjdfrxdkjjpdxjrxdrydcjr.y
iezyg-jmhfydfeqz.!dYfjdufecjdyfmphdur.dirpyr.ymodyedyfjdcr.ydjbyzjlj 

Ujdujzjd.ymccdzjoetjzmphdizeldyfjd.qzazm.jdeidyfjdxeoyez'.
rppeqpojljpy,dufjpdrdyjcjhzrldur.dkzeqhfydyedlj dMydfrxdkjjpd.jpydqa
izeldyfjdfeyjcdyedyfjdTmccr dMdyezjdmydeajp dMydur.dizeldAemzey,drpx
rppeqpojxdfm.dzjyqzpdkgdyfjdyzrmpdrzzmtmphdrydLjzcmptmccjdryd12:28 

Mdceevjxdrydlgduryofdrpxd.rudyfrydMdfrxdnq.ydymljdyedhjydoeliezyrkcg
yedyfjd.yrymepdrpxdljjydfmldyfjzj dMdijcydyfrydmydur.deidyfjdqyle.y
mlaezyrpojdyfrydfjd.feqcxdvpeudrydepojdeidyfjdpjudrpxd.yrzycmph
xjtjcealjpy.dmpdyfjdor.j 

Jtmxjpycg,dMdzjicjoyjx,dAemzeydfrxdfrxdpedxmiimoqcygdmpdimpxmphdufry
fjdurpyjxdmpdArzm. dYfjdwqmovpj..deidfm.dzjyqzpdazetjxdyfry dTjzg
ijudfeqz.dfrxd.qiimojx dMduepxjzjxdfeudfjdueqcxdyrvjdyfjdjbomymph
pju.dMdfrxdyedmlarzy 

Yfjdyzrmpdur.d.eljdlmpqyj.dcryj,drpxdMd.yzeccjxdrmlcj..cgdqadrpx
xeupdyfjdacryiezl,dqpymcdmydeooqzzjxdyedljdyfrydMdlmhfydar..dyfj
ymljdkgdr.vmphdrdijudwqj.ymep.dr.dyedufedfrxdcjiydLjzcmptmccjdkg
yfjdcr.ydyzrmpdepdyfjdjtjpmphdeidyfjdyzrhjxg 

Mdraazerofjxdyfjdofmjidaezyjz,drpdmpyjccmhjpydceevmphdlrp,drpxdfrx
cmyycjdxmiimoqcygdmpdajz.qrxmphdfmldyedjpyjzdqaepdyfjd.qknjoy dMydur.
rdxm.hzrojdyedyfjdAecmoj,dfjdfeycgdriimzljx,dyfryd.qofdkzmhrpx.dei
r..r..mp.d.feqcxdkjdrcceujxdyedhedrkeqydqpaqpm.fjx dMdfmpyjxdyfry
yfjzjdur.d.eljdae..mkmcmygdyfjgdlmhfydfrtjdcjiydkgdyfjdlmxpmhfy
yzrmp,dkqydfjdpjhrymtjxdyfjdmxjrdxjomxjxcg dFjdueqcxdfrtjdpeymojx
yuediezjmhpjz.--fjdur.d.qzjdeidmy ddEpcgdrkeqydyujpygdajeacjdfrx
cjiydkgdyfjdyzrmp,drpxdfjdoeqcxdpeydfrtjdirmcjxdyedek.jztjdyfjl 

Mdxedpeydvpeudufrydaqydyfjdmxjrdmpyedlgdfjrx--ae..mkcgdmydur.
yfjdxjjadrpbmjygdqpxjzcgmphdLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc'.dyepj.--kqydMdr.vjx
.qxxjpcg:

"GeqphdL dZjprqcx--fjdxmxdpeydcjrtjdkgdyfrydyzrmp,dxmxdfj?"

"Rf,dpe,dlep.mjqz dYedrzzmtjdrpxd.yrzydeiidrhrmpdumyfmpdfrcidrpdfeqz,
mydueqcxdpeydkjdrlq.mph,dyfry!"

Md.yrzjxdrydyfjdlrp,dyfjd.mhpmimorpojdeidfm.duezx.drcle.ydj.oramph
lj dYfjpdMd.ru d d d 

"Geqdljrp,"dMd.rmx,dlgdfjrzydkjrymphdrdcmyycj,d"yfrydL dNrovdZjprqcx
rzzmtjxdrydLjzcmptmccjdyfrydjtjpmph?"

"Kqydgj.,dlep.mjqz dKgdyfjdcr.ydyzrmpdrzzmtmphdyfjdeyfjzdurg,
yfjd11:40 "

Lgdkzrmpdufmzcjx dYfry,dyfjp,dur.dyfjdzjr.epdeidLrzyfj'.daemhprpy
rpbmjyg dNrovdZjprqcxdfrxdkjjpdmpdLjzcmptmccjdepdyfjdpmhfydeidyfj
ozmlj!dKqydufgdfrxdfjdpeyd.rmxd.e?dUfg,depdyfjdoepyzrzg,dfrxdfjdcjx
q.dyedkjcmjtjdyfrydfjdfrxdzjlrmpjxdmpdOfjzkeqzh?dZjljlkjzmphdfm.
izrpvdkegm.fdoeqpyjprpoj,dMdoeqcxdfrzxcgdkzmphdlg.jcidyedkjcmjtj
yfrydfjdfrxdrpgdoeppjoymepdumyfdyfjdozmlj dGjydufgdyfm.d.mcjpoj
epdfm.darzydrkeqyd.edtmyrcdrdlryyjz?dEpjdyfmphdur.dojzyrmp,dLrzyfj
frxdvpeupdrccdrceph dFjpojdfjzdrpbmjyg,drpxdfjzdjrhjzdwqj.ymepmph
eidAemzeydyedvpeudufjyfjzdrpgdepjdujzjd.q.ajoyjx 

Lgdoehmyrymep.dujzjdmpyjzzqayjxdkgdyfjdrzzmtrcdeidyfjdyzrmp,
rpxdmpdrpeyfjzdleljpydMdur.dhzjjymphdAemzey dYfjdcmyycjdlrpdur.
zrxmrpy dFjdkjrljxdrpxdteomijzryjxdrpx,diezhjyymphdlgdJphcm.f
zjcqoyrpoj,djlkzrojxdljdurzlcgdepdyfjdacryiezl 

"_Lepdofjzdrlm_,dMdfrtjd.qoojjxjx--kqyd.qoojjxjxdyedrdlrztjc!"

"Mpxjjx?dM'ldxjcmhfyjxdyedfjrzdmy dFrtjdgeqdfjrzxdyfjdcryj.ydfjzj?"

"FeudueqcxdgeqdyfrydMd.feqcxdfjrzdrpgyfmph?dYfjzjdfrtjdkjjpd.elj
xjtjcealjpy.,djf?dYfjdkzrtjdHmzrqx,dfjdfr.dlrxjdrpdrzzj.y?dEz
jtjpdrzzj.y.dajzfra.?dRf,dkqydMdumccdlrvjdfmldceevdieecm.f,dyfry
epj!dKqydufjzjdrzjdgeqdyrvmphdlj,dlgdizmjpx?dXedujdpeydhedyedyfj
feyjc?dMydm.dpjoj..rzgdyfrydMdryyjpxdyedlgdleq.yrofj.--yfjgdrzj
xjacezrkcgdcmladizeldyfjdfjrydeidyzrtjccmph dRc.e,dumyfeqydxeqky,
yfjzjdm.dxq.ydepdlgdoery dRpxdlgdymj,dyfrydMdlq.ydzjrzzrphj "

Mdoqyd.fezydfm.dzjlep.yzrpoj. 

"LgdxjrzdAemzey--pjtjzdlmpxdrccdyfry dUjdlq.ydhedyedyfjdTmccrdry
epoj d_Yfjzjdfr.dkjjpdrpeyfjzdlqzxjz!_"

Mdfrtjdizjwqjpycgdkjjpdxm.raaempyjxdufjpdirpogmphdyfrydMdur.dhmtmph
pju.deidmlaezyrpojdyedlgdizmjpx ddJmyfjzdfjdfr.dvpeupdmydrczjrxg
ezdfjdfr.dxm.lm..jxdmydr.dmzzjcjtrpydyedyfjdlrmpdm..qj--rpxdmpdyfj
cryyjzdor.jdjtjpy.dfrtjdq.qrccgdazetjxdfmldnq.ymimjx dKqydyfm.dymlj
Mdoeqcxdpeydoelacrmpdeidlm..mphdlgdjiijoy dPjtjzdfrtjdMd.jjpdrdlrp
.edicrkkjzhr.yjx dFm.dnrudxzeaajx dRccdyfjdnrqpympj..dujpydeqydei
fm.dkjrzmph dFjd.yrzjxdrydljdeajp-leqyfjx 

"Ufrydm.dyfrydgeqd.rg?dRpeyfjzdlqzxjz?dRf,dyfjp,dMdrldrccduzeph dM
frtjdirmcjx dHmzrqxdlrgdleovdfml.jcidrydlj--fjdumccdfrtjdzjr.ep!"

"Geqdxmxdpeydjbajoydmy,dyfjp?"

"M?dPeydyfjdcjr.ydmpdyfjduezcx dMydxjlecm.fj.dlgdyfjezg--mydzqmp.
jtjzgyfmph--my--rf,dpe!"dFjd.yeaajxdxjrx,dyfqlamphdfml.jcidep
yfjdofj.y d"Mydm.dmlae..mkcj dMd_orppey_dkjduzeph!dYfjdiroy.,
yrvjpdljyfexmorccgdrpxdmpdyfjmzdazeajzdezxjzdrxlmydeidepcgdepj
jbacrprymep dMdlq.ydkjdzmhfy!dMd_rl_dzmhfy!"

"Kqydyfjp--"

Fjdmpyjzzqayjxdlj 

"Urmy,dlgdizmjpx dMdlq.ydkjdzmhfy,dyfjzjiezjdyfm.dpjudlqzxjzdm.
mlae..mkcjdqpcj..--qpcj..--ef,durmy,dMdmlacezjdgeq d.rgdpeduezx--"

Fjdur.d.mcjpydiezdrdleljpydezdyue,dyfjp,dzj.qlmphdfm.dpezlrc
lrppjz,dfjd.rmxdmpdrdwqmjydr..qzjxdtemoj:d"Yfjdtmoymldm.drdlrpdei
lmxxcj-rhj dFm.dkexgdur.dieqpxdmpdyfjdceovjxd.fjxdpjrzdyfjd.ojpj
eidyfjdozmljdrpxdfrxdkjjpdxjrxdrydcjr.ydiezyg-jmhfydfeqz. dRpx
mydm.dle.ydazekrkcjdyfrydfjdur.d.yrkkjxdmpdrd.mlmcrzdlrppjzdyedL 
Zjprqcx,dyfeqhfdpeydpjoj..rzmcgdmpdyfjdkrov "

Mydur.dlgdyqzpdyedhraj--rpxdhrajdMdxmx dMpdrccdlgdvpeucjxhjdei
Aemzeydfjdfrxdpjtjzdxepjdrpgyfmphd.edrlrsmphdr.dyfm. dRpx,drcle.y
mpjtmyrkcg,drdxeqkydoze..jxdlgdlmpx 

"Aemzey,"dMdozmjx,d"geq'zjdaqccmphdlgdcjh dGeq'tjdfjrzxdrccdrkeqy
mydrczjrxg "

Fjdyqzpjxdfm.djrzpj.ydhrsjdqaepdljdzjazerofiqccg 

"UeqcxdMdxed.qofdrdyfmph?dMdr..qzjdgeqdyfrydMdfrtjdfjrzxdpeyfmph
ufry.ejtjz dXmxdgeqdpeydek.jztjdyfjd.feovdgeqzdpju.dur.dyedlj?"

"Kqydfeudepdjrzyfdoeqcxdgeqdvpeudrccdyfry?"

"Mdur.dzmhfydyfjp?dKqydMdvpjudmy dYfjdcmyycjdhzjgdojcc.,dlgdizmjpx,
yfjdcmyycjdhzjgdojcc.!dYfjgdyecxdlj dYfq.,drpxdmpdpedeyfjzdurg,doeqcx
yfjzjdfrtjdkjjpdrd.joepxdxjryf ddPeudyjccdljdrcc dMidujdhedzeqpxdye
yfjdcjiydfjzj,dujdorpdyrvjdrd.fezydoqydroze..dyfjdhecidcmpv.dufmof
umccdkzmphdq.dyedyfjdkrovdeidyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètjdlqofdlezjdwqmovcg "

R.dujdurcvjx,dyrvmphdyfjdurgdfjdfrxdmpxmoryjx,dMdzjoeqpyjxdrccdM
vpju dAemzeydcm.yjpjxdryyjpymtjcg 

"Yfjdxrhhjzdur.dmpdyfjdueqpx,dgeqd.rg?dYfrydm.doqzmeq. dGeqdrzj
.qzjdmydur.dyfjd.rljdepj?"

"Rk.ecqyjcgdojzyrmp dYfry'.dufrydlrvjdmyd.edmlae..mkcj "

"Peyfmphdm.dmlae..mkcj dYfjzjdlrgdfrtjdkjjpdyuedxrhhjz. "

Mdzrm.jxdlgdjgjkzeu. 

".qzjcgdyfrydm.dmpdyfjdfmhfj.ydxjhzjjdqpcmvjcg?dMydueqcxdkjdrdle.y
jbyzrezxmprzgdoempomxjpoj "

"Geqd.ajrvdr.dq.qrc,dumyfeqydzjicjoymep,dFr.ymph. dMpd.eljdor.j.
yuedmxjpymorcdujraep.d_ueqcx_dkjdfmhfcgdmlazekrkcj ddKqydpey
fjzj dYfm.darzymoqcrzdujraepdur.drdurzd.eqtjpmzdufmofdur.dlrxj
yedNrovdZjprqcx'.dezxjz. ddMydm.dzjrccgdfmhfcgdqpcmvjcg,dufjpdgeq
oeljdyedyfmpvdeidmy,dyfrydfjd.feqcxdfrtjdfrxdepcgdepjdlrxj dTjzg
azekrkcgdfjdueqcxdfrtjdrpeyfjzdiezdfm.deupdq.j "

"Kqydpekexgdfr.dljpymepjxd.qofdrdyfmph,"dMdeknjoyjx 

RdfmpydeidyfjdcjoyqzjzdozjaydmpyedAemzey'.dyepj dd"Lgdizmjpx,
mpduezvmphdqaepdrdor.j,depjdxej.dpeydyrvjdmpyedrooeqpydepcgdyfj
yfmph.dyfrydrzjd'ljpymepjx 'ddYfjzjdm.dpedzjr.epdyedljpymepdlrpg
yfmph.dufmofdlrgdkjdmlaezyrpy dJwqrccg,dyfjzjdm.deiyjpdrpdjbojccjpy
zjr.epdiezd_pey_dljpymepmphdyfjl dGeqdorpdyrvjdgeqzdofemojdeidyfj
yuedleymtj. "

Mdur.d.mcjpy,dmlazj..jxdmpd.amyjdeidlg.jci dRpeyfjzdijudlmpqyj.
kzeqhfydq.dyedyfjdirleq.d.fjx dUjdieqpxdrccdeqzdizmjpx.dyfjzjdrpx,
riyjzdrpdmpyjzofrphjdeidaecmyjdrljpmymj.,dAemzeydkjhrpdfm.dyr.v 

FrtmphduryofjxdHmzrqxdryduezv,dMdur.dvjjpcgdmpyjzj.yjx ddAemzey
kj.yeujxdkqydrdoqz.ezgdhcrpojdepdyfjd.qzzeqpxmph. ddYfjdepcg
yfmphdfjdjbrlmpjxdur.dyfjdzrhhjxdoerydrpxdyzeq.jz.dkgdyfjdxeez dR
xm.xrmpiqcd.lmcjdze.jdyedHmzrqx'.dcma.,drpx,dr.dyfeqhfdpeymphdmy,
Aemzeydicqphdyfjdkqpxcjdxeupdrhrmp 

"Ecxdoceyfj.deidyfjdhrzxjpjz'.?"dfjdwqjzmjx 

"Jbroycg,"d.rmxdHmzrqx 

Aemzeydvpjcydxeupdkgdyfjdkexg dFm.dimphjz.dujzjdzramxdkqy
ljyfexmorc dFjdjbrlmpjxdyfjdyjbyqzjdeidyfjdoceyfj.,drpxd.rym.imjx
fml.jcidyfrydyfjzjdujzjdpedlrzv.depdyfjl ddYfjdkeey.dfjd.qknjoyjx
yed.ajomrcdorzj,drc.edyfjdxmzygdrpxdkzevjpdimphjz-prmc. dUfmc.y
jbrlmpmphdyfjdcryyjzdfjdyfzjudrdwqmovdwqj.ymepdrydHmzrqx 

"Geqd.rudyfj.j?"

"Gj.,dMd.rudyfjl,"dzjacmjxdyfjdeyfjz dFm.dirojdzjlrmpjxdmp.ozqyrkcj 

.qxxjpcgdAemzeyd.ymiijpjx 

"Xz dXqzrpx!"

"Gj.?"dYfjdxeoyezdorljdiezurzx 

"Yfjzjdm.dierldepdyfjdcma. dGeqdek.jztjxdmy?"

"Mdxmxp'ydpeymojdmy,dMdlq.ydrxlmy "

"Kqydgeqdek.jztjdmydpeu?"

"Ef,dojzyrmpcg "

Aemzeydrhrmpd.feydrdwqj.ymepdrydHmzrqx 

"Geqdpeymojxdmydumyfeqydxeqky?"

Yfjdeyfjzdxmxdpeydzjacg dAemzeydazeojjxjx dYfjdxrhhjzdfrxdkjjp
umyfxzrupdizeldyfjdueqpx dMydzjae.jxdmpdrdhcr..dnrzdkgdyfjd.mxjdei
yfjdkexg dAemzeydjbrlmpjxdmy,dyfjpdfjd.yqxmjxdyfjdueqpxdoce.jcg dUfjp
fjdceevjxdqa,dfm.djgj.dujzjdjbomyjx,drpxd.fepjdumyfdyfjdhzjjpdcmhfy
Mdvpjud.edujcc 

"Mydm.drd.yzrphjdueqpx,dyfm.!dMydfr.dpeydkcjx dYfjzjdm.dped.yrmp
epdyfjdoceyfj. dYfjdkcrxjdeidyfjdxrhhjzdm.d.cmhfycgdxm.oeceqzjx,
yfrydm.drcc dUfrydxedgeqdyfmpv,dL ddcjdxeoyjqz?"

"Mdorpdepcgd.rgdyfrydmydm.dle.ydrkpezlrc "

"Mydm.dpeydrkpezlrcdrydrcc dMydm.dle.yd.mlacj dYfjdlrpdur.d.yrkkjx
_riyjzdfjdur.dxjrx_ "dRpx,d.ymccmphdyfjdocrleqzdeidtemoj.dyfry
rze.jdumyfdrdurtjdeidfm.dfrpx,dAemzeydyqzpjxdyedHmzrqxdrpxdrxxjx,
"L dHmzrqxdrhzjj.dumyfdlj,dxedgeqdpey,dlep.mjqz?"

UfryjtjzdHmzrqx'.dzjrcdkjcmji,dfjdroojayjxdyfjdae.mymepdumyfeqy
letmphdrdlq.ocj dOrclcgdrpxdrcle.yd.oezpiqccgdfjdzjacmjx:

"OjzyrmpcgdMdrhzjj "

Yfjdlqzlqzdeid.qzazm.jdrpxdmpyjzj.ydkzevjdeqydrhrmp 

"Kqydufrydrpdmxjr!"dozmjxdL dFrqyjy d"Yed.yrkdrdlrpdriyjzdfjdm.
xjrx!dKrzkrzmo!dQpfjrzxdei!d.eljdqpraajr.rkcjdfryj,dajzfra. "

"Pe,dL dcjdnqhj,"d.rmxdAemzey d"Md.feqcxdirpogdmydur.dxepjdwqmyj
oecx-kceexjxcg--yedozjryjdrpdmlazj..mep "

"Ufrydmlazj..mep?"

"Yfjdmlazj..mepdmydpjrzcgdxmxdozjryj,"dzjyqzpjxdAemzeydezroqcrzcg 

L dKjbdfrxdkjjpdyfmpvmph 

"Feu,dyfjp,dur.dyfjdlrpdvmccjx?"

"Fjdur.dpeydvmccjx dFjdxmjx dFjdxmjx,dL dcjdnqhj,dmidMdrldpeydlqof
lm.yrvjp,deidrpdjamcjaymodimy!"

Yfm.d.yryjljpydeidAemzey'.drhrmpdrzeq.jxdoep.mxjzrkcj
jbomyjljpy dXz dXqzrpxdvpjcydxeupdrhrmp,drpxdlrxjdrd.jrzofmph
jbrlmprymep dRydcr.ydfjdze.jdyedfm.dijjy 

"Ujcc,dL dcjdxeoyjqz?"

"L dAemzey,dMdrldmpocmpjxdyedkjcmjtjdyfrydgeqdrzjdoezzjoydmpdgeqz
r..jzymep dMdur.dlm.cjxdyedkjhmpdumyf dYfjdmpoepyzetjzymkcjdiroy
yfrydyfjdlrpdfrxdkjjpd.yrkkjxdxm.yzroyjxdlgdryyjpymepdizeldrpg
eyfjzdmpxmorymep. "

Aemzeydur.dyfjdfjzedeidyfjdfeqz dYfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryjdur.dazeiq.j
mpdoelacmljpy. dAemzeydzj.aepxjxdhzrojiqccg,drpxdyfjpdjboq.jxdfml.jci
epdyfjdazjyjbydyfrydpjmyfjzdfjdpezdMdfrxdgjydcqpofjx,drpxdyfrydfj
um.fjxdyedzjarmzdyfjdzrtrhj.deidyfjdneqzpjg dR.dujdujzjdrkeqydye
cjrtjdyfjd.fjx,dHmzrqxdraazerofjxdq. 

"Epjdlezjdyfmph,dL dAemzey,"dfjd.rmx,dmpdfm.d.qrtjdleovmphdtemoj d"Uj
ieqpxdyfm.doemcjxdzeqpxdyfjdfrpxcjdeidyfjdxrhhjz dRduelrp'.dfrmz "

"Rf!"d.rmxdAemzey d"Rduelrp'.dfrmz?dUfryduelrp'.,dMduepxjz?"

"Mduepxjzdrc.e,"d.rmxdHmzrqx dYfjp,dumyfdrdkeu,dfjdcjiydq. 

"Fjdur.dmp.m.yjpy,dyfjdheexdHmzrqx,"d.rmxdAemzeydyfeqhfyiqccg,dr.
ujdurcvjxdyeurzx.dyfjdfeyjc d"Mduepxjzdmpdufrydxmzjoymepdfjdfeaj.
yedlm.cjrxdlj?dRduelrp'.dfrmz--f'l!"

Ujdcqpofjxdfjrzymcg,dkqydMdieqpxdAemzeyd.eljufrydxm.yzrmydrpx
mpryyjpymtj dRiyjzurzx.dujdujpydqadyedeqzd.myymph-zeeldrpxdyfjzj
Mdkjhhjxdfmldyedyjccdljd.eljyfmphdeidfm.dlg.yjzmeq.dneqzpjgdyedArzm. 

"Umccmphcg,dlgdizmjpx dMdujpydyedArzm.dyedimpxd_yfm._ "

Fjdyeevdizeldfm.daeovjydrd.lrccdirxjxdpju.arajzdoqyymph ddMydur.
yfjdzjazexqoymepdeidrduelrp'.dafeyehzraf ddFjdfrpxjxdmydyedlj dM
qyyjzjxdrpdjbocrlrymep 

"Geqdzjoehpmsjdmy,dlgdizmjpx?"

Mdpexxjx dRcyfeqhfdyfjdafeyedektmeq.cgdxryjxdizeldtjzgdlrpgdgjrz.
krov,drpxdyfjdfrmzdur.dxzj..jxdmpdrdxmiijzjpyd.ygcj,dyfjdcmvjpj..
ur.dqplm.yrvrkcj 

"LrxrljdXrqkzjqmc!"dMdjbocrmljx 

Aemzeyd.feevdfm.dfjrxdumyfdrd.lmcj 

"Peydwqmyjdoezzjoy,dlgdizmjpx d.fjdxmxdpeydorccdfjz.jcidkgdyfrydprlj
mpdyfe.jdxrg. dYfrydm.drdamoyqzjdeidyfjdpeyezmeq.dLrxrljdKjzecxg!"

LrxrljdKjzecxg!dMpdrdicr.fdyfjdufecjdyfmphdorljdkrovdyedlj dYfj
lqzxjzdyzmrcdyfrydfrxdjtevjxd.qofduezcx-umxjdmpyjzj.y 

_YfjdKjzecxgdOr.j _




16

YfjdKjzecxgdOr.j


.eljdyujpygdgjrz.dezd.edkjiezjdyfjdeajpmphdeidyfjdazj.jpyd.yezg,
Lep.mjqzdRzpecxdKjzecxg,drdprymtjdeidCgep.,drzzmtjxdmpdArzm.
rooelarpmjxdkgdfm.dazjyygdumijdrpxdyfjmzdcmyycjdxrqhfyjz,drdljzj
krkj dLep.mjqzdKjzecxgdur.drdnqpmezdarzypjzdmpdrdimzldeidumpj
ljzofrpy.,drd.yeqydlmxxcj-rhjxdlrp,diepxdeidyfjdheexdyfmph.deidcmij,
xjteyjxdyedfm.dofrzlmphdumij,drpxdrcyehjyfjzdqpzjlrzvrkcjdmpdjtjzg
urg dYfjdimzldmpdufmofdLep.mjqzdKjzecxgdur.drdarzypjzdur.drd.lrcc
epj,drpxdrcyfeqhfdxemphdujcc,dmydxmxdpeydgmjcxdrdcrzhjdmpoeljdye
yfjdnqpmezdarzypjz dYfjdKjzecxg.dfrxdrd.lrccdrarzyljpydrpxdcmtjx
mpdrdtjzgdlexj.ydir.fmepdyedkjhmpdumyf 

KqydqpzjlrzvrkcjdyfeqhfdLep.mjqzdKjzecxgdlmhfydkj,dfm.dumijdur.
acjpymiqccgdhmcxjxdumyfdyfjdkzq.fdeidZelrpoj dGeqphdrpxdheexdceevmph,
rpxdhmiyjxdumyfrcdumyfdrd.mphqcrzdofrzldeidlrppjz,dLrxrljdKjzecxg
rydepojdozjryjxdrd.ymzdmpdyfjdwqrzyjz,dj.ajomrccgdufjpdmydkjhrpdye
kjdufm.ajzjxdyfryd.eljdmpyjzj.ymphdlg.yjzgd.qzzeqpxjxdfjzdkmzyf dMy
ur.dzqleqzjxdyfryd.fjdur.dyfjdmccjhmymlryjdxrqhfyjzdeidrdZq..mrp
HzrpxdXqvj dEyfjz.dr..jzyjxdyfrydmydur.drpdRq.yzmrpdRzofxqvj,drpx
yfrydyfjdqpmepdur.dcjhrc,dyfeqhfdlezhrprymo dKqydrccd.yezmj.drhzjjx
qaepdepjdaempy,dyfrydNjrppjdKjzecxgdur.dyfjdojpyzjdeidrpdmpyjzj.ymph
lg.yjzg dWqj.ymepjxdkgdyfjdoqzmeq.,dLrxrljdKjzecxgdxmxdpeydxjpgdyfj.j
zqleqz. ddEpdyfjdeyfjzdfrpxd.fjdcjydmydkjdocjrzcgdqpxjz.yeexdyfry,
yfeqhfdfjzd"cma."dujzjd".jrcjx,"drccdyfj.jd.yezmj.dfrxdrdieqpxrymep
mpdiroy dYedmpymlryjdizmjpx.d.fjdqpkqzxjpjxdfjz.jcidiqzyfjz,
.aevjdeidaecmymorcdmpyzmhqj.,deid"arajz.,"deidek.oqzjdxrphjz.dyfry
yfzjryjpjxdfjz ddYfjzjdur.drc.edlqofdyrcvdeidOzeupdnjujc.dyfrydujzj
yedkjd.ecxd.jozjycg,dumyfdfjz.jcidroymphdr.dyfjdhe-kjyujjp 

Rleph.ydyfjdizmjpx.drpxdrowqrmpyrpoj.deidyfjdKjzecxg.dur.dr
geqphdcrugjz,dHjezhj.dOeppjrq dMydur.d.eepdjtmxjpydyfrydyfj
ir.omprymphdNjrppjdfrxdoelacjyjcgdjp.crtjxdfm.dfjrzy dLrxrlj
Kjzecxgdjpoeqzrhjxdyfjdgeqphdlrpdmpdrdxm.ozjjydir.fmep,dkqydkjmph
rcurg.dorzjiqcdyedriimzldfjzdoelacjyjdxjteymepdyedfjzdlmxxcj-rhjx
fq.krpx dPjtjzyfjcj..,dlrpgd.amyjiqcdajz.ep.dxmxdpeydfj.myryjdye
xjocrzjdyfrydgeqphdOeppjrqdur.dfjzdcetjz--rpxdpeydyfjdepcgdepj!

UfjpdyfjdKjzecxg.dfrxdkjjpdmpdArzm.drkeqydyfzjjdlepyf.,drpeyfjz
ajz.eprhjdorljdqaepdyfjd.ojpj dYfm.dur.dLz dFmzrldA dYzraa,dr
prymtjdeidyfjdQpmyjxd.yryj.,drpxdjbyzjljcgdujrcyfg dMpyzexqojx
yedyfjdofrzlmphdrpxdlg.yjzmeq.dLrxrljdKjzecxg,dfjdijccdrdazelay
tmoymldyedfjzdir.omprymep. dFm.drxlmzrymepdur.dektmeq.,dyfeqhf
.yzmoycgdzj.ajoyiqc 

Rkeqydyfm.dymlj,dLrxrljdKjzecxgdkjorljdlezjdeqy.aevjpdmpdfjz
oepimxjpoj. dYed.jtjzrcdizmjpx.,d.fjdxjocrzjxdfjz.jcidhzjrycgduezzmjx
epdfjzdfq.krpx'.dkjfrci dd.fjdjbacrmpjxdyfrydfjdfrxdkjjpdxzrupdmpye
.jtjzrcd.ofjlj.deidrdaecmymorcdpryqzj,drpxdrc.edzjijzzjxdyed.elj
mlaezyrpydarajz.dyfrydfrxdkjjpdjpyzq.yjxdyedfmldiezd.rijvjjamphdrpx
ufmofdoepojzpjxdrd".jozjy"deidirzdzjrofmphdJqzeajrpdmlaezyrpoj dYfjg
frxdkjjpdjpyzq.yjxdyedfm.doq.yexgdyedyfzeudaqz.qjz.deiidyfjdyzrov,
kqydLrxrljdKjzecxgdur.dpjzteq.,dfrtmphdzjoehpmsjxd.jtjzrcdmlaezyrpy
ljlkjz.deidyfjdZjtecqymeprzgdOmzocjdmpdArzm. 

Epdyfjd28yfdxrgdeidPetjlkjz,dyfjdkceudijcc dYfjduelrpdufedorljdxrmcg
yedocjrpdrpxdoeevdiezdyfjdKjzecxg.dur.d.qzazm.jxdyedimpxdyfjdxeezdei
yfjdrarzyljpyd.yrpxmphdumxjdeajp dFjrzmphdirmpydlerp.dm..qmphdizel
yfjdkjxzeel,d.fjdujpydmp dRdyjzzmkcjd.mhfydljydfjzdjgj. dLrxrlj
Kjzecxgdcrgdepdyfjdiceez,dkeqpxdfrpxdrpxdieey,dqyyjzmphdijjkcj
lerp.,dfrtmphdlrprhjxdyedizjjdfjzdleqyfdizeldrdhrh dEpdyfjdkjxdur.
Lep.mjqzdKjzecxg,dcgmphdmpdrdaeecdeidkceex,dumyfdrdvpmijdxzmtjp
yfzeqhfdfm.dfjrzy 

LrxrljdKjzecxg'.d.yezgdur.docjrzdjpeqhf d.qxxjpcgdrurvjpjxdizel
.cjja,d.fjdfrxdxm.ojzpjxdyuedlr.vjxdljpdkjpxmphdetjzdfjz d.ymicmph
fjzdozmj.,dyfjgdfrxdkeqpxdrpxdhrhhjxdfjz dYfjgdfrxdyfjpdxjlrpxjx
eidLep.mjqzdKjzecxgdyfjdirleq.d".jozjy "

Kqydyfjdmpyzjamxdumpjdljzofrpydzjiq.jxdaempy-kcrpvdyedroojxjdye
yfjmzdzjwqj.y dRphjzjxdkgdfm.dzjiq.rc,depjdeidyfjdljpdmpoepympjpycg
.yrkkjxdfmldyfzeqhfdyfjdfjrzy ddUmyfdyfjdxjrxdlrp'.dvjg.,dyfjgdfrx
eajpjxdyfjd.rijdmpdyfjdoezpjz,drpxdfrxdorzzmjxdrurgdumyfdyfjldr
lr..deidarajz. dKeyfdljpdujzjdfjrtmcgdkjrzxjx,drpxdfrxduezpdlr.v.,
kqydLrxrljdKjzecxgdxjocrzjxdae.mymtjcgdyfrydyfjgdujzjdZq..mrp. 

Yfjdriirmzdozjryjxdrpdmlljp.jd.jp.rymep dMydur.dzjijzzjxdyedtrzmeq.cg
r.d"yfjdPmfmcm.ydRyzeomyg,"d"Zjtecqymeprzmj.dmpdArzm.,"drpxdyfj
"Zq..mrpdLg.yjzg "dYmljdujpydep,drpxdyfjdlg.yjzmeq.dkjrzxjxdljp
ujzjdpjtjzdyzrojx dRpxdyfjp,dnq.ydr.daqkcmodmpyjzj.ydur.dkjhmppmph
yedxmjdxeup,drd.yrzycmphdxjtjcealjpydeooqzzjx dLrxrljdKjzecxgdur.
rzzj.yjxdrpxdofrzhjxdumyfdyfjdlqzxjzdeidfjzdfq.krpx 

Yfjdyzmrc,dufjpdmydorljdep,drzeq.jxdumxj.azjrxdmpyjzj.y 
Yfjdgeqyfdrpxdkjrqygdeidyfjdrooq.jx,drpxdfjzdlg.yjzmeq.dfm.yezg,
ujzjd.qiimomjpydyedlrvjdeidmydrdorq.jdoécèkzj dAjeacjdzrphjx
yfjl.jctj.dumcxcgdiezdezdrhrmp.ydyfjdazm.epjz dKqydfjzdarzym.rp.
zjojmtjxd.jtjzrcd.jtjzjdofjov.dyedyfjmzdjpyfq.mr.l dYfjdzelrpymodar.y
eidLrxrljdKjzecxg,dfjzdzegrcdkceex,drpxdyfjdlg.yjzmeq.dmpyzmhqj.
mpdufmofd.fjdfrxdfjzdkjmphdujzjd.feupdyedkjdljzjdirpyr.mj.dei
yfjdmlrhmprymep 

Mydur.dazetjxdkjgepxdxeqkydyfrydNjrppjdKjzecxg'.darzjpy.dujzj
rdfmhfcgdzj.ajoyrkcjdrpxdaze.rmodoeqacj,dizqmydljzofrpy.,
ufedcmtjxdepdyfjdeqy.vmzy.deidCgep. ddYfjdZq..mrpdHzrpxdXqvj,
yfjdoeqzydmpyzmhqj.,drpxdyfjdaecmymorcd.ofjlj.--rccdyfjd.yezmj.
oqzzjpydujzjdyzrojxdkrovdye--yfjdcrxgdfjz.jci!dIzeldfjzdkzrmpdfrx
jlrpryjxdyfj.jdmphjpmeq.dlgyf.,drpxd.fjdur.dazetjxdyedfrtjdzrm.jx
rdoep.mxjzrkcjd.qldeidlepjgdizeldtrzmeq.dozjxqceq.dajz.ep.dkgdfjz
imoymepdeidyfjd"Ozeupdnjujc."--yfjdnjujc.dmpdwqj.ymepdkjmphdieqpx
yedkjdljzjdar.yjdmlmyrymep. ddZjlez.jcj..cgdyfjdufecjd.yezgdei
fjzdcmijdur.dcrmxdkrzj dYfjdleymtjdiezdyfjdlqzxjzdur.dieqpxdmpdLz 
FmzrldA dYzraa dLz dYzraadxmxdfm.dkj.y,dkqydzjcjpycj..cgdrpxdrhmcjcg
oze..-wqj.ymepjxdfjdur.diezojxdyedrxlmydyfrydfjdcetjxdyfjdcrxg,
rpxdyfry,dfrxd.fjdkjjpdizjj,dfjdueqcxdfrtjdr.vjxdfjzdyedkjdfm.
umij dYfjdiroydyfrydyfjdzjcrymep.dkjyujjpdyfjldujzjdrxlmyyjxcg
acryepmod.yzjphyfjpjxdyfjdor.jdrhrmp.ydyfjdrooq.jx dXjkrzzjxdizel
kjoelmphdfm.dlm.yzj..dkgdyfjd.mlacjdfepeqzrkcjdpryqzjdeidyfjdlrp,
NjrppjdKjzecxgdfrxdoepojmtjxdyfjdlep.yzeq.dazenjoydeidzmxxmph
fjz.jcideidfjzdjcxjzcgdqpxm.ymphqm.fjxdfq.krpx,drpxdkjoelmphdyfj
umijdeidyfjdzmofdRljzmorp 

Yfzeqhfeqy,dLrxrljdKjzecxgdoepizepyjxdfjzdrooq.jz.dumyfdoelacjyjd.rph
izemxdrpxd.jcidae..j..mep dFjzd.yezgdpjtjzdtrzmjx d.fjdoepympqjx
yedxjocrzjd.yzjpqeq.cgdyfryd.fjdur.deidzegrcdkmzyf,drpxdyfryd.fj
frxdkjjpd.qk.ymyqyjxdiezdyfjdxrqhfyjzdeidyfjdizqmyd.jccjzdrydrp
jrzcgdrhj ddRk.qzxdrpxdoelacjyjcgdqp.qk.yrpymryjxdr.dyfj.jd.yryjljpy.
ujzj,drdhzjrydpqlkjzdeidajeacjdkjcmjtjxdmlacmomycgdmpdyfjmzdyzqyf 

Kqydyfjdaze.joqymepdur.dmlacrorkcj dMydxjpeqpojxdyfjdlr.vjx
"Zq..mrp."dr.drdlgyf,drpxdr..jzyjxdyfrydyfjdozmljdfrxdkjjpdoellmyyjx
kgdLrxrljdKjzecxgdrpxdfjzdcetjz,dHjezhj.dOeppjrq dRdurzzrpydur.
m..qjxdiezdyfjdrzzj.ydeidyfjdcryyjz,dkqydfjdfrxdum.jcgdxm.raajrzjx 
Jtmxjpojd.feujxdyfrydyfjdkepx.dufmofd.joqzjxdLrxrljdKjzecxgdujzj
.edcee.jdyfryd.fjdoeqcxdjr.mcgdfrtjdizjjxdfjz.jci 

Rpxdyfjp,dyeurzx.dyfjdoce.jdeidyfjdyzmrc,drdcjyyjz,dae.yjxdmpdArzm.,
ur.d.jpydyedyfjdAqkcmodAze.joqyez dMydur.dizeldHjezhj.dOeppjrqdrpx,
umyfeqydzjtjrcmphdfm.dufjzjrkeqy.,dmydoepyrmpjxdrdiqccdoepij..mep
eidyfjdozmlj ddFjdxjocrzjxdyfrydfjdfrxdmpxjjxd.yzqovdyfjdiryrcdkceu
rydLrxrljdKjzecxg'.dmp.ymhrymep dYfjdozmljdfrxdkjjpdacrppjxdkjyujjp
yfjl dKjcmjtmphdyfrydfjzdfq.krpxdmcc-yzjryjxdfjz,drpxdlrxxjpjxdkg
fm.deupdar..mepdiezdfjz,drdar..mepdufmofdfjdkjcmjtjxdfjzdyedzjyqzp,
fjdfrxdacrppjxdyfjdozmljdrpxd.yzqovdyfjdiryrcdkceudyfryd.feqcxdizjj
yfjduelrpdfjdcetjxdizeldrdfryjiqcdkepxrhj dPeu,diezdyfjdimz.ydymlj,
fjdcjrzpydeidLz dFmzrldA dYzraa,drpxdzjrcmsjxdyfrydyfjduelrpdfjdcetjx
frxdkjyzrgjxdfml!dPeydiezdfm.d.rvjdxmxd.fjdum.fdyedkjdizjj--kqydmp
ezxjzdyedlrzzgdyfjdujrcyfgdRljzmorp d.fjdfrxdq.jxdfmldr.drdory'.-aru,
rpxdpeu,dmpdfm.dnjrceq.dzrhj,dfjdyqzpjxdrpxdxjpeqpojxdfjz,dxjocrzmph
yfrydyfzeqhfeqydfjdfrxdroyjxdrydfjzdmp.ymhrymep 

RpxdyfjpdLrxrljdKjzecxgdazetjxdfjz.jcidyfjdzjlrzvrkcjduelrpd.fj
qpxeqkyjxcgdur. dUmyfeqydfj.myrymep,d.fjdxzeaajxdfjzdazjtmeq.
xjijpoj,drpxdrxlmyyjxdyfrydyfjd"Zq..mrp."dujzjdrdaqzjdmptjpymep
epdfjzdarzy ddYfjdzjrcdlqzxjzjzdur.dHjezhj.dOeppjrq dLrxxjpjxdkg
ar..mep,dfjdfrxdoellmyyjxdyfjdozmlj,dteumphdyfrydmid.fjdxmxdpeydvjja
.mcjpojdfjdueqcxdjproydrdyjzzmkcjdtjphjrpojdizeldfjz dYjzzmimjxdkg
fm.dyfzjry.,d.fjdfrxdoep.jpyjx--rc.edijrzmphdmydcmvjcgdyfrydmid.fj
yecxdyfjdyzqyfd.fjdlmhfydkjdrooq.jxdeidoeppmtmphdrydyfjdozmlj dKqy
.fjdfrxd.yjrxir.ycgdzjiq.jxdyedfrtjdrpgyfmphdlezjdyedxedumyfdfjz
fq.krpx'.dlqzxjzjz,drpxdmydur.dmpdzjtjphjdiezdyfm.dryymyqxjdep
fjzdarzydyfrydfjdfrxduzmyyjpdyfm.dcjyyjzdrooq.mphdfjz dd.fjd.uezj
.ecjlpcgdyfryd.fjdfrxdfrxdpeyfmphdyedxedumyfdyfjdacrppmphdeidyfj
ozmlj,dyfryd.fjdfrxdruevjdepdyfrydljlezrkcjdpmhfydyedimpxdHjezhj.
Oeppjrqd.yrpxmphdetjzdfjz,dyfjdkceex-.yrmpjxdvpmijdmpdfm.dfrpx 

Mydur.drdyeqofdrpxdhedriirmz dLrxrljdKjzecxg'.d.yezgdur.dfrzxcg
ozjxmkcj dKqydyfm.duelrp,dufe.jdirmzgdyrcj.deidzegrcdmpyzmhqj.dfrx
kjjpd.edjr.mcgdroojayjx,dfrxdyfjd.qazjljdrzydeidlrvmphdfjz.jci
kjcmjtjx dFjzdrxxzj..dyedyfjdnqzgdur.drdlr.yjzamjoj dYfjdyjrz.
.yzjrlmphdxeupdfjzdiroj,d.fjd.aevjdeidfjzdofmcx,deidfjzduelrp'.
fepeqz--eidfjzdxj.mzjdyedvjjadfjzdzjaqyrymepdqpyrzpm.fjxdiez
yfjdofmcx'.d.rvj d.fjdrxlmyyjxdyfry,dHjezhj.dOeppjrqdfrtmphdkjjp
fjzdcetjz,d.fjdlmhfydajzfra.dkjdfjcxdlezrccgdzj.aep.mkcjdiez
yfjdozmlj--kqy,dkjiezjdHex,dpeyfmphdlezj!d.fjdvpjudyfryd.fjdfrx
oellmyyjxdrdhzrtjdirqcydmpdpeydxjpeqpomphdOeppjrqdyedyfjdcru,dkqy
.fjdxjocrzjxdmpdrdkzevjpdtemojdyfrydyfrydur.drdyfmphdpeduelrpdoeqcx
frtjdxepj d d d d.fjdfrxdcetjxdfml!dOeqcxd.fjdcjydfjzdfrpxdkjdyfj
epjdyed.jpxdfmldyedyfjdHqmcceympj?dd.fjdfrxdkjjpdhqmcygdeidlqof,
kqyd.fjdur.dmppeojpydeidyfjdyjzzmkcjdozmljdmlaqyjxdyedfjz 

Feujtjzdyfrydlrgdfrtjdkjjp,dfjzdjcewqjpojdrpxdajz.eprcmygduepdyfj
xrg dLrxrljdKjzecxg,drlmx.ydrd.ojpjdeidqparzrccjcjxdjbomyjljpy,
ur.drowqmyyjx ddXj.amyjdyfjdqyle.ydjpxjrteqz.deidyfjdaecmoj,dHjezhj.
Oeppjrqdur.dpjtjzdyzrojx dR.diezdLrxrljdKjzecxg,dpeyfmphdlezjdur.
fjrzxdeidfjz dYrvmphdyfjdofmcxdumyfdfjz,d.fjdcjiydArzm.dyedkjhmp
rdpjudcmij 




17

UjdLrvjdIqzyfjzdMptj.ymhrymep.


Mdfrtjd.jydxeupdyfjdKjzecxgdor.jdmpdiqcc dEidoeqz.jdrccdyfjdxjyrmc.
xmxdpeydazj.jpydyfjl.jctj.dyedlgdljlezgdr.dMdfrtjdzjoeqpyjxdyfjl
fjzj dPjtjzyfjcj..,dMdzjorccjxdyfjdor.jdirmzcgdrooqzryjcg dMydfrx
ryyzroyjxdrdhzjrydxjrcdeidmpyjzj.ydrydyfjdymlj,drpxdfrxdkjjpdiqccg
zjaezyjxdkgdyfjdJphcm.fdarajz.,d.edyfrydmydxmxdpeydpjjxdlqofdjiiezy
eidljlezgdepdlgdarzydyedzjoeccjoydyfjd.rcmjpydxjyrmc. 

Nq.ydiezdyfjdleljpy,dmpdlgdjbomyjljpy,dmyd.jjljxdyedocjrzdqadyfj
ufecjdlryyjz dMdrxlmydyfrydMdrldmlaqc.mtj,drpxdAemzeydxjacezj.dlg
oq.yeldeidnqlamphdyedoepocq.mep.,dkqydMdyfmpvdMdfrxd.eljdjboq.jdmp
yfm.dmp.yrpoj ddYfjdzjlrzvrkcjdurgdmpdufmofdyfm.dxm.oetjzgdnq.ymimjx
Aemzey'.daempydeidtmjud.yzqovdljdrydepoj 

"Aemzey,"dMd.rmx,d"Mdoephzryqcryjdgeq dMd.jjdjtjzgyfmphdpeu "

"Midyfrydm.dmpxjjxdyfjdyzqyf,d_M_doephzryqcryjd_geq_,d_lepdrlm_ dIez
r.drdzqcjdgeqdrzjdpeydirleq.diezd.jjmph--jf,dm.dmydpeyd.e?"

Mdijcydrdcmyycjdrppegjx 

"Oeljdpeu,dxep'ydzqkdmydmp dGeq'tjdkjjpd.edoepieqpxjxcgdlg.yjzmeq.
rccdrcephdumyfdgeqzdfmpy.drpxdgeqzdmp.mhpmimorpydxjyrmc.dyfrydrpg
epjdlmhfydirmcdyed.jjdufrydgeqdujzjdxzmtmphdry "

Aemzeydcmydepjdeidfm.dcmyycjdomhrzjyyj.dumyfdfm.dq.qrc
azjom.mep dYfjpdfjdceevjxdqa 

"Rpxd.mpojdgeqd.jjdjtjzgyfmphdpeu,d_lepdrlm_,dufrydjbroycgdm.dmy
yfrydgeqd.jj?"

"Ufg,dyfrydmydur.dLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc--Kjzecxg,dufedlqzxjzjx
Lz dZjprqcx dYfjd.mlmcrzmygdeidyfjdyuedor.j.dazetj.dyfrydkjgepx
rdxeqky "

"Yfjpdgeqdoep.mxjzdyfrydLrxrljdKjzecxgdur.duzephcgdrowqmyyjx?dYfry
mpdroyqrcdiroyd.fjdur.dhqmcygdeidoeppmtrpojdmpdfjzdfq.krpx'.dlqzxjz?"

Mdeajpjxdlgdjgj.dumxj 

"Kqydeidoeqz.j!dXep'ydgeq?"

Aemzeydurcvjxdyedyfjdjpxdeidyfjdzeel,drk.jpylmpxjxcgd.yzrmhfyjpjx
rdofrmz,drpxdyfjpd.rmxdyfeqhfyiqccg 

"Gj.,dyfrydm.dlgdeampmep dKqydyfjzjdm.dped'eidoeqz.j'drkeqydmy,
lgdizmjpx dYjofpmorccgd.ajrvmph,dLrxrljdKjzecxgdm.dmppeojpy "

"Eidyfrydozmlj,dajzfra. dKqydpeydeidyfm. "

Aemzeyd.rydxeupdrhrmp,drpxdzjhrzxjxdlj,dfm.dyfeqhfyiqcdrmzdlezj
lrzvjxdyfrpdjtjz 

".edmydm.dxjimpmyjcgdgeqzdeampmep,dFr.ymph.,dyfrydLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc
lqzxjzjxdL dZjprqcx?"

"Gj. "

"Ufg?"

Fjd.feydyfjdwqj.ymepdrydljdumyfd.qofd.qxxjppj..dyfrydMdur.dyrvjp
rkrov 

"Ufg?"dMd.yrlljzjx d"Ufg?dEf,dkjorq.j--"dMdorljdyedrd.yea 

Aemzeydpexxjxdfm.dfjrxdrydlj 

"Geqd.jj,dgeqdoeljdyedrd.yqlkcmph-kceovdrydepoj ddUfgd.feqcx
LrxrljdXrqkzjqmcd(Md.frccdorccdfjzdyfrydiezdocjrzpj..d.rvj)dlqzxjz
L dZjprqcx?dUjdorpdimpxdped.frxeudeidrdleymtj d.fjdxej.dpeydkjpjimy
kgdfm.dxjryf;doep.mxjzjxdr.djmyfjzdlm.yzj..dezdkcrovlrmcjzd.fjd.yrpx.
yedce.j dGeqdorppeydfrtjdrdlqzxjzdumyfeqydrdleymtj ddYfjdimz.ydozmlj
ur.dxmiijzjpy,dyfjzjdujdfrxdrdzmofdcetjzdurmymphdyed.yjadmpyedfjz
fq.krpx'.d.fej. "

"Lepjgdm.dpeydyfjdepcgdleymtjdiezdlqzxjz,"dMdeknjoyjx 

"Yzqj,"drhzjjxdAemzeydacromxcg d"Yfjzjdrzjdyuedeyfjz.,dyfjd_ozmlj
ar..meppjc_dm.depj dRpxdyfjzjdm.dyfjdyfmzxdzrzjdleymtj,dlqzxjzdiez
rpdmxjrdufmofdmlacmj.d.eljdiezldeidljpyrcdxjzrphjljpydepdyfjdarzy
eidyfjdlqzxjzjz dFelmomxrcdlrpmr,drpxdzjcmhmeq.dirprymom.ldkjceph
yedyfrydocr.. dUjdorpdzqcjdmydeqydfjzj "

"Kqydufrydrkeqydyfjd_ozmljdar..meppjc_?dOrpdgeqdzqcjdyfrydeqy?dMi
LrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdur.dZjprqcx'.dlm.yzj..,dmid.fjdieqpxdyfrydfm.
riijoymepdur.doeecmph,dezdmidfjzdnjrceq.gdur.drzeq.jxdmpdrpgdurg,
lmhfyd.fjdpeydfrtjd.yzqovdfmldxeupdmpdrdleljpydeidrphjz?"

Aemzeyd.feevdfm.dfjrx 

"Mi--Md.rgd_mi_,dgeqdpeyj--LrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdur.dZjprqcx'.dlm.yzj..,
fjdfrxdpeydfrxdymljdyedymzjdeidfjz ddRpxdmpdrpgdor.jdgeqdlm.yrvj
fjzdofrzroyjz d.fjdm.drduelrpdufedorpd.mlqcryjdhzjrydjleymeprc
.yzj.. d.fjdm.drdlrhpmimojpydroyzj.. dKqy,dceevjxdrydxm.ar..mepryjcg,
fjzdcmijdxm.azetj.dfjzdraajrzrpoj dYfzeqhfeqy,dmidujdjbrlmpjdmy,
.fjdfrxdkjjpdoecx-kceexjxdrpxdorcoqcrymphdmpdfjzdleymtj.drpx
roymep. dMydur.dpeydyedcmpvdfjzdcmijdumyfdyfrydeidfjzdgeqphdcetjz
yfryd.fjdoeppmtjxdrydfjzdfq.krpx'.dlqzxjz dYfjdzmofdRljzmorp,diez
ufeld.fjdazekrkcgdxmxdpeydorzjdrdkqyyep,dur.dfjzdeknjoymtj dMid.fj
oellmyyjxdrdozmlj,d.fjdueqcxdrcurg.dxed.ediezdhrmp ddFjzjdyfjzj
ur.dpedhrmp dKj.mxj.,dfeudxedgeqdrooeqpydiezdyfjdxmhhmphdeidyfj
hzrtj?dYfrydur.drdlrp'.duezv "

".fjdlmhfydfrtjdfrxdrpdrooelacmoj,"dMd.qhhj.yjx,dqpumccmphdye
zjcmpwqm.fdlgdkjcmji 

"Mdar..dyedrpeyfjzdeknjoymep dGeqdfrtjd.aevjpdeidyfjd.mlmcrzmyg
kjyujjpdyfjdyuedozmlj. dUfjzjmpdxej.dyfrydcmj,dlgdizmjpx?"

Md.yrzjxdrydfmldmpdr.yepm.fljpy 

"Ufg,dAemzey,dmydur.dgeqdufedzjlrzvjxdepdyfry!dYfjd.yezgdeidyfj
lr.vjxdljp,dyfjd'.jozjy,'dyfjdarajz.!"

Aemzeyd.lmcjxdrdcmyycj 

"Xedpeydkjd.edmpxmhprpy,dMdkjhdeidgeq dMdzjaqxmryjdpeyfmph dYfj
.mlmcrzmygdeidyfjdyued.yezmj.dcmpv.dyfjdyuedor.j.dyehjyfjz
mpjtmyrkcg dKqydzjicjoydpeudepd.eljyfmphdtjzgdoqzmeq. dMydm.dpey
LrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdufedyjcc.dq.dyfm.dyrcj--midmydujzjdrccdueqcxdmpxjjx
kjdacrmpd.rmcmph--mydm.dLrxrljdZjprqcx dM.d.fjdyfjpdmpdcjrhqjdumyf
yfjdeyfjz?"

"Mdorp'ydkjcmjtjdyfry,"dMd.rmxd.ceucg d"Midmydm.d.e,d.fjdlq.ydkj
yfjdle.ydoep.qllryjdroyzj..dyfjduezcxdfr.djtjzdvpeup "

"Yr-yr-yr,"d.rmxdAemzeydmlarymjpycg d"Rhrmpdgeqdfrtjdyfjd.jpymljpy,
rpxdpeydyfjdcehmo!dMidmydm.dpjoj..rzgdiezdrdozmlmprcdyedkjdr
oep.qllryjdroyzj..,dyfjpdkgdrccdljrp.dr..qljdfjzdyedkjdepj dKqydm.
mydpjoj..rzg?dMdxedpeydkjcmjtjdLrxrljdZjprqcxdyedkjdmpdcjrhqjdumyf
LrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdiezd.jtjzrcdzjr.ep.,d.eljdeidufmofdMdfrtjdrczjrxg
jpqljzryjxdyedgeq dYfjdeyfjz.drzjd.jci-jtmxjpy ddYfjzjiezj,dyfry
ae..mkmcmygdjcmlmpryjx,dujdxzrudtjzgdpjrzdyedyfjdyzqyfdufmofdm.,
r.drcurg.,dtjzgdoqzmeq.drpxdmpyjzj.ymph "

"Aemzey,"dMdozmjx,d"ufrydlezjdxedgeqdvpeu?"

"_Lepdrlm_,dgeqdlq.ydlrvjdgeqzdeupdxjxqoymep. ddGeqdfrtjd'rooj..dye
yfjdiroy.!'dOepojpyzryjdgeqzdhzjgdojcc. dZjr.ep--peydcmvjdHmzrqx--kqy
cmvjdFjzoqcjdAemzey "

"Kqydrzjdgeqd_.qzj_?"

"Lgdizmjpx,dmpdlrpgdurg.dMdfrtjdkjjpdrpdmlkjomcj ddKqydrydcr.ydM
.jjdocjrzcg "

"Geqdvpeudjtjzgyfmph?"

"Mdfrtjdxm.oetjzjxdufrydL dZjprqcxd.jpydiezdljdyedxm.oetjz "

"Rpxdgeqdvpeudyfjdlqzxjzjz?"

"Mdvpeudepjdlqzxjzjz "

"Ufrydxedgeqdljrp?"

"Ujdyrcvdrdcmyycjdrydoze..-aqzae.j. dYfjzjdrzjdfjzjdpeydepjdozmlj,
kqydyue dYfjdimz.ydMdfrtjd.ectjx,dyfjd.joepx--_jfdkmjp_,dMdumcc
oepij..,dMdrldpeyd.qzj!"

"Kqy,dAemzey,dMdyfeqhfydgeqd.rmxdyfjdlrpdmpdyfjd.fjxdfrxdxmjxdr
pryqzrcdxjryf?"

"Yr-yr-yr "dAemzeydlrxjdfm.dirteqzmyjdjnroqcrymepdei
mlarymjpoj d".ymccdgeqdxedpeydqpxjz.yrpx dEpjdlrgdfrtjdrdozmlj
umyfeqydrdlqzxjzjz,dkqydiezdyuedozmlj.dmydm.dj..jpymrcdyedfrtj
yuedkexmj. "

Fm.dzjlrzvd.yzqovdljdr.d.edajoqcmrzcgdcrovmphdmpdcqomxmygdyfry
Mdceevjxdrydfmldmpd.eljdrpbmjyg dKqydfjdraajrzjxdajzijoycg
pezlrc d.qxxjpcgdfjdze.jdrpxd.yzeccjxdyedyfjdumpxeu 

"Fjzjdfjdm.,"dfjdek.jztjx 

"Ufe?"

"L dNrovdZjprqcx dMd.jpydrdpeyjdqadyedyfjdTmccrdyedr.vdfmldye
oeljdfjzj "

Yfrydofrphjxdyfjdoeqz.jdeidlgdmxjr.,drpxdMdr.vjxdAemzeydmidfj
vpjudyfrydNrovdZjprqcxdfrxdkjjpdmpdLjzcmptmccjdepdyfjdpmhfydeidyfj
ozmlj dMdfrxdfeajxdyedoryofdlgdr.yqyjdcmyycjdizmjpxdpraamph,dkqy
r.dq.qrc,dfjdur.delpm.omjpy ddFj,dyee,dfrxdmpwqmzjxdrydyfjd.yrymep 

"Rpxdumyfeqydxeqkydujdrzjdpeydezmhmprcdmpdyfjdmxjr,dFr.ymph. dYfj
jbojccjpydHmzrqx,dfjdrc.edfr.dazekrkcgdlrxjdfm.dmpwqmzmj. "

"Geqdxep'ydyfmpv--"dMd.rmx,drpxdyfjpd.yeaajx d"Rf,dpe,dmydueqcxdkj
yeedfezzmkcj!"

Aemzeydceevjxdmpwqmzmphcgdrydlj,dkqydMd.rmxdpedlezj ddMydfrx
nq.ydeooqzzjxdyedljdyfrydyfeqhfdyfjzjdujzjd.jtjpdueljpdxmzjoycgdez
mpxmzjoycgdoeppjoyjxdumyfdyfjdor.jdLz. dZjprqcx,dLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdrpx
fjzdxrqhfyjz,dyfjdlg.yjzmeq.dtm.myez,drpxdyfjdyfzjjd.jztrpy.--yfjzj
ur.,dumyfdyfjdjbojaymepdeidecxdRqhq.yjdufedoeqcxdfrzxcgdoeqpy,
epcgdepjdlrp--NrovdZjprqcx d_Rpxdrdlrpdlq.ydfrtjdxqhdrdhzrtj d d d _

Mdfrxdpedymljdyedxjtjceadiqzyfjzdyfjdraarccmphdmxjrdyfrydfrxdeooqzzjx
yedlj,diezdNrovdZjprqcxdur.dq.fjzjxdmpyedyfjdzeel 

Aemzeydhzjjyjxdfmldmpdrdkq.mpj..-cmvjdlrppjz 

"Yrvjdrd.jry,dlep.mjqz dMdzjhzjydmpimpmyjcgdyedxjzrphjdgeq,dkqy
geqdumccdajzfra.dqpxjz.yrpxdyfrydyfjdryle.afjzjdeidyfjdTmccrdm.
peydyeedoephjpmrcdyedlj dL ddHmzrqxdrpxdMdxedpeyd.jjdjgjdyedjgj
rkeqydjtjzgyfmph dFm.daecmyjpj..dyedljdfr.dpeydkjjpd.yzmvmphdrpx
geqdumccdoelazjfjpxdyfrydMdxedpeydmpyjpxdrpgdcmyycjdxm.oetjzmj.dM
lrgdlrvjdyedkjpjimydfmldmpdrpgdurg "

"Jbroycg,dL dAemzey,"d.rmxdyfjdcrx d"YfrydijcceudHmzrqxdm.drp
mcc-oepxmymepjxdkzqyj,drpxdM'xdkjdxjcmhfyjxdyed.jjd.eljdepjd.oezj
rydfm.djbajp.j "

"YfjpdMdlrgdr.vdrdcmyycjdirteqzdeidgeq?"

"Ojzyrmpcg "

"Mdumccdr.vdgeqdyedhedyedyfjdzrmcurgd.yrymepdrpxdyrvjdrdyzrmpdyedyfj
pjbyd.yrymepdrcephdyfjdcmpj,dRkkrcro dR.vdyfjzjdrydyfjdocerv-zeel
ufjyfjzdyuediezjmhpjz.dxjae.myjxdrdtrcm.jdyfjzjdepdyfjdpmhfydei
yfjdlqzxjz dMydm.drd.lrccd.yrymep,drpxdyfjgdrzjdrcle.ydojzyrmp
yedzjljlkjz ddUmccdgeqdxedyfm.?"

"Eidoeqz.jdMdumcc,"d.rmxdyfjdkeg,dlg.ymimjx,dyfeqhfdzjrxgdiez
yfjdyr.v 

"Mdrpxdlgdizmjpx,dgeqdoelazjfjpx,dfrtjdkq.mpj..djc.jufjzj,"djbacrmpjx
Aemzey d"Yfjzjdm.drdyzrmpdmpdrdwqrzyjzdeidrpdfeqz,drpxdMdumccdr.v
geqdpeydyedzjyqzpdyedyfjdTmccr,dr.dMdfrtjdpedum.fdiezdHmzrqxdye
hjydrpdmpvcmphdeidgeqzdjzzrpx "

"Tjzgdujcc,dMdumccdhed.yzrmhfydyedyfjd.yrymep "

Fjdze.jdyedfm.dijjy dAemzey'.dtemojd.yeaajxdfml 

"Epjdleljpy,dL dZjprqcx,dyfjzjdm.depjdcmyycjdlryyjzdyfrydaqsscj.
lj dUfgdxmxdgeqdpeydljpymepdyedL dFrqyjydyfm.dlezpmphdyfrydgeqdujzj
mpdLjzcmptmccjdepdyfjdpmhfydeidyfjdozmlj?"

NrovdZjprqcx'.dirojdujpydozml.ep dUmyfdrpdjiiezydfjdoepyzeccjx
fml.jci 

"Geqdfrtjdlrxjdrdlm.yrvj dMdur.dmpdOfjzkeqzh,dr.dMdyecxdyfjdjbrlmpmph
lrhm.yzryjdyfm.dlezpmph "

Aemzeydceevjxdrydfml,dfm.djgj.dprzzeujx,dory-cmvj,dqpymcdyfjgdepcg
.feujxdrdhcjrldeidhzjjp 

"Yfjpdmydm.drd.mphqcrzdlm.yrvjdyfrydMdfrtjdlrxjdyfjzj--iezdmydm.
.frzjxdkgdyfjd.yrymepd.yrii dYfjgd.rgdgeqdrzzmtjxdkgdyfjd11:40
yzrmp "

IezdrdleljpydNrovdZjprqcxdfj.myryjx,dyfjpdfjdlrxjdqadfm.dlmpx 

"RpxdmidMdxmx?dMd.qaae.jdgeqdxedpeydljrpdyedrooq.jdljdei
arzymomarymphdmpdlgdiryfjz'.dlqzxjz?"dFjdr.vjxdyfjdwqj.ymep
frqhfymcg,dfm.dfjrxdyfzeupdkrov 

"Md.feqcxdcmvjdrpdjbacrprymepdeidyfjdzjr.epdyfrydkzeqhfydgeqdfjzj "

"Yfrydm.d.mlacjdjpeqhf dMdorljdyed.jjdlgdimrpoéj,dLrxjlem.jccj
Xrqkzjqmc dMdur.depdyfjdjtjdeidrdcephdtegrhj,dqpojzyrmpdr.dyedufjp
Md.feqcxdzjyqzp dMdum.fjxdyed.jjdfjzdkjiezjdMdujpy,dyedr..qzjdfjz
eidlgdqpofrphmphdxjteymep "

"Rpxdgeqdxmxd.jjdfjz?"dAemzey'.djgj.dpjtjzdcjiydyfjdeyfjz'.diroj 

Yfjzjdur.drpdraazjomrkcjdarq.jdkjiezjdZjprqcxdzjacmjx dYfjpdfjd.rmx:

"Gj. "

"Rpxdriyjzurzx.?"

"MdieqpxdMdfrxdlm..jxdyfjdcr.ydyzrmp dMdurcvjxdyed.y ddKjrqtrm.dufjzj
MdvpeovjxdqadrdhrzrhjdrpxdheydrdorzdyedyrvjdljdkrovdyedOfjzkeqzh "

".y dKjrqtrm.?dYfrydm.dimiyjjpdvmceljyzj. dRdcephdurcv,dL dZjprqcx "

"M--Mdijcydcmvjdurcvmph "

Aemzeydkeujxdfm.dfjrxdr.drd.mhpdyfrydfjdroojayjxdyfj
jbacrprymep dNrovdZjprqcxdyeevdqadfm.dfrydrpxdorpjdrpxdxjarzyjx dMp
rdyzmojdAemzeydnqlajxdyedfm.dijjy 

"Wqmov,dFr.ymph. dUjdumccdhedriyjzdfml "

Vjjamphdrdxm.ozjjydxm.yrpojdkjfmpxdeqzdwqrzzg,dujdiecceujxdfml
yfzeqhfdyfjd.yzjjy.deidLjzcmptmccj dKqydufjpdAemzeyd.rudyfrydfj
yeevdyfjdyqzpmphdyedyfjd.yrymep,dfjdofjovjxdfml.jci 

"Rccdm.dujcc dFjdfr.dyrvjpdyfjdkrmy dFjdumccdhedyedRkkrcro,drpxdumcc
mpwqmzjdiezdyfjdlgyfmorcdtrcm.jdcjiydkgdyfjdlgyfmorcdiezjmhpjz. dGj.,
_lepdrlm_,drccdyfrydur.drdcmyycjdmptjpymepdeidlgdeup "

"Geqdurpyjxdfmldeqydeidyfjdurg!"dMdjbocrmljx 

"Geqzdajpjyzrymepdm.drlrsmph,dFr.ymph.!dPeu,dmidgeqdacjr.j,dujdumcc
hedqadyedyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj "




18

HmzrqxdRoy.


"Kgdyfjdurg,dAemzey,"dMd.rmx,dr.dujdurcvjxdrcephdyfjdfeydufmyj
zerx,d"M'tjdheydrdkepjdyedamovdumyfdgeq dMdxrzjd.rgdgeqdljrpydujcc,
kqydzjrccgdmydur.dpedkq.mpj..deidgeqz.dyedhedleqofmphdzeqpxdyedyfj
FôyjcdxqdAfrzjdumyfeqydcjyymphdljdvpeu "

Aemzeyd.feydrdwqmovd.mxjcephdhcrpojdrydlj 

"RpxdfeudxmxdgeqdvpeudMdfrxdkjjpdyfjzj?"dfjdmpwqmzjx 

LqofdyedlgdrppegrpojdMdijcydyfjdoeceqzdzm.mphdmpdlgdofjjv. 

"Mdfraajpjxdyedceevdmpdmpdar..mph,"dMdjbacrmpjxdumyfdr.dlqofdxmhpmyg
r.dMdoeqcxdlq.yjz 

MdzryfjzdijrzjxdAemzey'.dkrpyjz,dkqydyedlgdzjcmji,drpxd.eljufrydye
lgd.qzazm.j,dfjdepcgd.feevdfm.dfjrxdumyfdrdzryfjzdqpq.qrcdhzrtmyg 

"MidMdfrtjdeiijpxjxdgeqzd.q.ojaymkmcmymj.dmpdrpgdurg,dMdxjlrpx
arzxepdeidgeq dGeqdumccdqpxjz.yrpxdkjyyjzd.eep dKqy,dkjcmjtjdlj,
Mdfrtjd.yzmtjpdyedoepojpyzryjdrccdlgdjpjzhmj.depdyfjdor.j "

"Ef,dmy'.drccdzmhfy,"dMd.rmx,dleccmimjxdkgdyfjdraecehg dd"Mdvpeu
my'.depcgdyfrydgeqdfrtjdlgdmpyjzj.y.drydfjrzy ddKqydMdorpdyrvjdorzj
eidlg.jcidrccdzmhfy "

Aemzeyd.jjljxdyedkjdrkeqydyed.rgd.eljyfmphdiqzyfjz,dkqydofjovjx
fml.jci 

RzzmtjxdrydyfjdTmccr,dAemzeydcjxdyfjdurgdqadyedyfjd.fjxdufjzjdyfj
.joepxdkexgdfrxdkjjpdxm.oetjzjx dFjdxmxdpey,dfeujtjz,dhedmp,dkqy
arq.jxdkgdyfjdkjpofdufmofdMdfrtjdljpymepjxdkjiezjdr.dkjmphd.jyd.elj
ijudgrzx.drurgdizeldmy dRiyjzdoepyjlacrymphdmydiezdrdleljpydezdyue,
fjdarojxdorzjiqccgdizeldmydyedyfjdfjxhjdufmofdlrzvjxdyfjdkeqpxrzg
kjyujjpdyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètjdrpxdyfjdTmccrdLrzhqjzmyj dYfjpdfj
arojxdkrovdrhrmp,dpexxmphdfm.dfjrxdr.dfjdxmxd.e dZjyqzpmphdrhrmp
yedyfjdfjxhj,dfjdarzyjxdyfjdkq.fj.dumyfdfm.dfrpx. 

"Umyfdheexdiezyqpj,"dfjdzjlrzvjxdyedljdetjzdfm.d.feqcxjz,
"Lrxjlem.jccjdLrzyfjdlrgdimpxdfjz.jcidmpdyfjdhrzxjp dMdxj.mzj
yed.ajrvdyedfjzdrpxdueqcxdazjijzdpeydyedorccdiezlrccgdry
yfjdTmccrdLrzhqjzmyj dRf,drccdm.dujcc,dyfjzjd.fjdm. dA.y,
lrxjlem.jccj!dA.y!d_Qpdleljpy,d.'mcdteq.dacrîy_ "

MdnempjxdfmldrydyfjdleljpydyfrydLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc,dceevmphd.cmhfycg
.yrzycjx,dorljdzqppmphdqadyedyfjdfjxhjdrydfm.dorcc 

"Rdcmyycjduezxdumyfdgeq,dlrxjlem.jccj,dmidmydm.dajzlmyyjx?"

"Ojzyrmpcg,dLep.mjqzdAemzey "

Xj.amyjdfjzdrowqmj.ojpoj,dfjzdjgj.dceevjxdyzeqkcjxdrpxdrizrmx 

"Lrxjlem.jccj,dxedgeqdzjljlkjzdzqppmphdriyjzdljdepdyfjdzerxdyfj
xrgdyfrydMdorljdyedgeqzdfeq.jdumyfdyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj?dGeq
r.vjxdljdmidrpgdepjdujzjd.q.ajoyjxdeidyfjdozmlj "

"RpxdgeqdyecxdljdyuedOfmcmrp. "dFjzdtemojd.eqpxjxdzryfjzdkzjryfcj..,
rpxdfjzdcjiydfrpxd.yecjdyedfjzdkzjr.y 

"Umccdgeqdr.vdljdyfjd.rljdwqj.ymepdrhrmp,dlrxjlem.jccj?"

"Ufrydxedgeqdljrp?"

"Yfm. dMidgeqdujzjdyedr.vdljdyfrydwqj.ymepdrhrmp,dMd.feqcxdhmtj
geqdrdxmiijzjpydrp.ujz d.eljdepjdm.d.q.ajoyjx--kqydpeydrdOfmcmrp "

"Ufe?"dYfjduezxdorljdirmpycgdkjyujjpdfjzdarzyjxdcma. 

"L dNrovdZjprqcx "

"Ufry?"dMydur.drdozg d"Nrov?dMlae..mkcj dUfedxrzj.dyed.q.ajoydfml?"

"Hmzrqx "

"Hmzrqx!"dYfjdhmzc'.dirojdur.dr.fg d"Mdrldrizrmxdeidyfrydlrp dFj
m.dozqjc dFjdumcc---fjdumcc--"d.fjdkzevjdeii dYfjzjdur.doeqzrhj
hryfjzmphdmpdfjzdiroj,drpxdxjyjzlmprymep ddMdzjrcmsjxdmpdyfrydleljpy
yfryd.fjdur.drdimhfyjz dAemzey,dyee,duryofjxdfjzdmpyjpycg 

"Geqdvpeu,deidoeqz.j,dyfrydfjdur.dfjzjdepdyfjdpmhfydeidyfj
lqzxjz?"dfjdr.vjx 

"Gj.,"d.fjdzjacmjxdljofrpmorccg d"Fjdyecxdlj "

"Mydur.dqpum.jdyedfrtjdyzmjxdyedoepojrcdyfjdiroy,"dtjpyqzjxdAemzey 

"Gj.,dgj.,"d.fjdzjacmjxdmlarymjpycg d"Kqydujdorppeydur.yjdymlj
epdzjhzjy. dUjdlq.ydimpxd.eljyfmphdyed.rtjdfml dFjdm.dmppeojpy,
eidoeqz.j,dkqydyfrydumccdpeydfjcadfmldumyfdrdlrpdcmvjdHmzrqxdufe
fr.dfm.dzjaqyrymepdyedyfmpvdei dFjdlq.ydrzzj.yd.eljdepj,drpxdyfry
.eljdepjdumccdkjdNrov "

"Yfjdiroy.dumccdyjccdrhrmp.ydfml,"d.rmxdAemzey d"Geqdzjrcmsjdyfry?"

.fjdirojxdfmld.wqrzjcg,drpxdq.jxdyfjduezx.dMdfrxdfjrzxdfjzd.rgdmp
fjzdleyfjz'.dxzrumph-zeel 

"Mdrldpeydrdofmcx,dlep.mjqz dMdorpdkjdkzrtjdrpxdceevdiroy.dmpdyfj
iroj dFjdm.dmppeojpy,drpxdujdlq.yd.rtjdfml "

.fjd.aevjdumyfdrdvmpxdeidxj.ajzryjdjpjzhg,dyfjpdur.d.mcjpy,dizeupmph
r.d.fjdyfeqhfy 

"Lrxjlem.jccj,"d.rmxdAemzeydek.jztmphdfjzdvjjpcg,d"m.dyfjzjdpey
.eljyfmphdyfrydgeqdrzjdvjjamphdkrovdyfrydgeqdoeqcxdyjccdq.?"

.fjdpexxjxdajzacjbjxcg 

"Gj.,dyfjzjdm.d.eljyfmph,dkqydMdfrzxcgdvpeudufjyfjzdgeqdumccdkjcmjtj
my--myd.jjl.d.edrk.qzx "

"Rydrpgdzryj,dyjccdq.,dlrxjlem.jccj "

"Mydm.dyfm. dL dHmzrqxd.jpydiezdlj,dr.drpdriyjzyfeqhfy,dyed.jjdmidM
oeqcxdmxjpymigdyfjdlrpdmpdyfjzj "d.fjd.mhpjxdumyfdfjzdfjrxdyeurzx.
yfjd.fjx d"Mdoeqcxdpey dRydcjr.ydMdoeqcxdpeydrydyfjdleljpy dKqy
.mpojdMdfrtjdkjjpdyfmpvmph--"

"Ujcc?"

"Myd.jjl.d.edwqjjz,drpxdgjydMdrldrcle.yd.qzj dMdumccdyjccdgeq dEp
yfjdlezpmphdeidyfjdxrgdL dZjprqcxdur.dlqzxjzjx,dMdur.durcvmphdmpdyfj
hrzxjpdfjzj,dufjpdMdfjrzxdrd.eqpxdeidljp'.dtemoj.dwqrzzjccmph dM
aq.fjxdr.mxjdyfjdkq.fj.drpxdceevjxdyfzeqhf dEpjdeidyfjdljpdur.
L dZjprqcxdrpxdyfjdeyfjzdur.drdyzrla,drdxzjrxiqcdceevmphdozjryqzjdmp
imcyfgdzrh. dFjdur.drcyjzpryjcgdufmpmphdrpxdyfzjryjpmph dMdhryfjzjx
fjdur.dr.vmphdiezdlepjg,dkqydrydyfrydleljpyd_lrlrp_dorccjxdljdizel
yfjdfeq.j,drpxdMdfrxdyedhe dYfrydm.drcc,depcg--Mdrldrcle.yd.qzj
yfrydyfjdyzrladrpxdyfjdxjrxdlrpdmpdyfjd.fjxdrzjdepjdrpxdyfjd.rlj "

Aemzeydqyyjzjxdrpdjbocrlrymep 

"Kqydufgdxmxdgeqdpeyd.rgd.edrydyfjdymlj,dlrxjlem.jccj?"

"Kjorq.jdrydimz.ydmydepcgd.yzqovdljdyfrydyfjdirojdur.dtrhqjcg
irlmcmrzdmpd.eljdurg dYfjdlrpdur.dxmiijzjpycgdxzj..jx,drpxdraarzjpycg
kjcephjxdyedrd.qajzmezd.yrymepdmpdcmij dKqydyjccdlj,dLep.mjqzdAemzey,
m.dmydpeydae..mkcjdyfrydyfm.dyzrladlmhfydfrtjdryyrovjxdrpxdvmccjxdL 
Zjprqcx,drpxdyrvjpdfm.doceyfj.drpxdlepjg?"

"Mydm.drpdmxjr,dlrxjlem.jccj,"d.rmxdAemzeyd.ceucg d"Mydcjrtj.dr
ceydqpjbacrmpjx,dkqydmydm.dojzyrmpcgdrpdmxjr dMdumccdyfmpvdeidmy "

Rdtemojdorccjxdizeldyfjdfeq.j 

"_Lrlrp_,"dufm.ajzjxdLrzyfj,d"Mdlq.ydhe "dRpxd.fjd.cmaajxdrurg
yfzeqhfdyfjdyzjj. 

"Oelj,"d.rmxdAemzey,drpxdyrvmphdlgdrzl,dyqzpjxdmpdyfjdxmzjoymepdei
yfjdTmccr 

"Ufrydxedgeqdzjrccgdyfmpv?"dMdr.vjx,dmpd.eljdoqzme.myg dd"Ur.dyfry
.yezgdyzqj,dezdxmxdyfjdhmzcdlrvjdmydqadmpdezxjzdyedxmtjzyd.q.amomep
izeldfjzdcetjz?"

"Mydm.drdoqzmeq.dyrcj,"d.rmxdAemzey,d"kqydMdkjcmjtjdmydyedkjdyfj
rk.ecqyjdyzqyf dQpumyymphcg,dLrxjlem.jccjdLrzyfjdyecxdq.dyfjdyzqyf
epdrpeyfjzdaempy--rpxdmpomxjpyrccgdhrtjdNrovdZjprqcxdyfjdcmj dXmxdgeq
peymojdfm.dfj.myrymepdufjpdMdr.vjxdfmldmidfjd.rudLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmcdep
yfjdpmhfydeidyfjdozmlj?dFjdarq.jxdrpxdyfjpd.rmxd'Gj. 'dMd.q.ajoyjx
yfrydfjdur.dcgmph dMydur.dpjoj..rzgdiezdljdyed.jjdLrxjlem.jccj
Lrzyfjdkjiezjdfjdoeqcxdaqydfjzdepdfjzdhqrzx dYfzjjdcmyycjduezx.
hrtjdljdyfjdmpiezlrymepdMdurpyjx dUfjpdMdr.vjxdfjzdmid.fjdvpjudyfry
NrovdZjprqcxdur.dfjzjdyfrydpmhfy,d.fjdrp.ujzjxd'Fjd_yecx_dlj 'ddPeu,
Fr.ymph.,dufrydur.dNrovdZjprqcxdxemphdfjzjdepdyfrydjtjpyiqcdjtjpmph,
rpxdmidfjdxmxdpeyd.jjdLrxjlem.jccjdLrzyfjdufeldxmxdfjd.jj?"

".qzjcg,dAemzey,"dMdozmjx,drhfr.y,d"geqdorppeydkjcmjtjdyfrydrdkeg
cmvjdyfrydueqcxdlqzxjzdfm.deupdiryfjz "

"_Lepdrlm_,"d.rmxdAemzey,d"geqdoepympqjdyedkjdeidrd.jpymljpyrcmyg
qpkjcmjtrkcj!dMdfrtjd.jjpdleyfjz.dufedlqzxjzjxdyfjmzdcmyycjdofmcxzjp
iezdyfjd.rvjdeidyfjdmp.qzrpojdlepjg!dRiyjzdyfry,depjdorpdkjcmjtj
rpgyfmph "

"Rpxdyfjdleymtj?"

"Lepjgdeidoeqz.j dZjljlkjzdyfrydNrovdZjprqcxdyfeqhfydyfrydfjdueqcx
oeljdmpdyedfrcidfm.diryfjz'.diezyqpjdrydyfjdcryyjz'.dxjryf "

"Kqydyfjdyzrla dUfjzjdxej.dfjdoeljdmp?"

Aemzeyd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. 

"Hmzrqxdueqcxd.rgdyfrydfjdur.drpdrooelacmoj--rpdrarofjdufedfjcajx
geqphdZjprqcxdyedoellmydyfjdozmlj,drpxdufedur.doeptjpmjpycgdaqy
eqydeidyfjdurgdriyjzurzx. "

"Kqydyfjdfrmzdzeqpxdyfjdxrhhjz?dYfjduelrp'.dfrmz?"

"Rf,"d.rmxdAemzey,d.lmcmphdkzerxcg d"Yfrydm.dyfjdozjrldei
Hmzrqx'.dcmyycjdnj.y dRooezxmphdyedfml,dmydm.dpeydrduelrp'.dfrmz
rydrcc dZjljlkjzdyfrydyfjdgeqyf.deidyexrgdujrzdyfjmzdfrmzdkzq.fjx
.yzrmhfydkrovdizeldyfjdiezjfjrxdumyfdaelrxjdezdfrmzur.fdyedlrvjdmy
cmjdicry dOep.jwqjpycgd.eljdeidyfjdfrmz.drzjdeidoep.mxjzrkcjdcjphyf "

"Rpxdgeqdkjcmjtjdyfrydyee?"

"Pe,"d.rmxdAemzeydumyfdrdoqzmeq.d.lmcj d"IezdMdvpeudmydyedkjdyfj
frmzdeidrduelrp--rpxdlezj,dufmofduelrp!"

"LrxrljdXrqkzjqmc,"dMdrppeqpojxdae.mymtjcg 

"Ajzfra.,"d.rmxdAemzey,dzjhrzxmphdljdwqmssmorccg 

KqydMdzjiq.jxdyedrcceudlg.jcidyedhjydrppegjx 

"Ufrydrzjdujdhemphdyedxedpeu?"dMdr.vjx,dr.dujdjpyjzjxdyfjdfrccdei
yfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj 

"Mdum.fdyedlrvjdrd.jrzofdrleph.ydyfjdjiijoy.deidL ddNrov
Zjprqcx dYfrydm.dufgdMdfrxdyedhjydfmldeqydeidyfjdurgdiezdrdiju
feqz. "

"KqydumccdpeydHmzrqxdfrtjd.jrzofjxdrczjrxg?"dMdr.vjxdxeqkyiqccg 

"Eidoeqz.j dFjdkqmcx.drdor.j,dr.drdkjrtjzdkqmcx.drdxrl,dumyfdr
irymhqmphdmpxq.yzg dKqydfjdumccdpeydfrtjdceevjxdiezdyfjdyfmph.
yfrydMdrld.jjvmph--mpdrccdazekrkmcmygdfjdueqcxdpeydfrtjd.jjpdyfjmz
mlaezyrpojdmidyfjgd.yrzjxdfmldmpdyfjdiroj dCjydq.dkjhmp "

Pjrycgdrpxdljyfexmorccg,dAemzeydeajpjxdjrofdxzrujzdmpdyqzp,djbrlmpjx
yfjdoepyjpy.,drpxdzjyqzpjxdyfjldjbroycgdyedyfjmzdacroj. dMydur.
rd.mphqcrzcgdxqccdrpxdqpmpyjzj.ymphdazeojjxmph dAemzeydurxjxdep
yfzeqhfdoeccrz.,darnrlr.drpxd.eov. dRdaqzzmphdpem.jdeqy.mxjdxzju
ljdyedyfjdumpxeu dMp.yrpycgdMdkjorljdhrctrpmsjxdmpyedcmij 

"Aemzey!"dMdozmjx d"Rdorzdfr.dnq.ydxzmtjpdqa dHmzrqxdm.dmpdmy,
rpxdNrovdZjprqcx,drpxdyuedhjpxrzlj. "

"_.rozédyeppjzzj!_"dhzeucjxdAemzey d"YfrydrpmlrcdeidrdHmzrqx,
oeqcxdfjdpeydurmy?dMd.frccdpeydkjdrkcjdyedzjacrojdyfjdyfmph.dmp
yfm.dcr.ydxzrujzdumyfdyfjdazeajzdljyfex ddCjydq.dkjdwqmov "

Qpojzjlepmeq.cgdfjdyqlkcjxdeqydyfjdyfmph.depdyfjdiceez,dle.ycg
ymj.drpxdfrpxvjzofmji. d.qxxjpcgdumyfdrdozgdeidyzmqlafdAemzey
aeqpojxdepd.eljyfmph,drd.lrccd.wqrzjdorzxkerzx,djtmxjpycgdr
afeyehzraf dYfzq.ymphdmydmpyedfm.daeovjy,dfjdzjyqzpjxdyfjdyfmph.
ajcc-ljccdyedyfjdxzrujz,drpxd.jmsmphdljdkgdyfjdrzldxzrhhjxdlj
eqydeidyfjdzeeldrpxdxeupdyfjd.yrmz. dMpdyfjdfrccd.yeexdHmzrqx,
oepyjlacrymphdfm.dazm.epjz 

"Heexdriyjzpeep,dL dHmzrqx,"d.rmxdAemzey d"Ufrydfrtjdujdfjzj?"

Hmzrqxdpexxjxdfm.dfjrxdyeurzx.dNrov 

"Fjdur.dyzgmphdyedlrvjdrdhjyrurg,dkqydMdur.dyeed.frzadiezdfml dFj
m.dqpxjzdrzzj.ydiezdyfjdlqzxjzdeidfm.diryfjz,dL dArqcdZjprqcx "

Aemzeydufjjcjxdyedoepizepydyfjdkegdufedcjrpjxdcmlacgdrhrmp.ydyfj
xeez,dfm.dirojdr.fgdarcj 

"Ufrydxedgeqd.rgdyedyfry,d_njqpjdfellj_?"

NrovdZjprqcxd.yrzjxdrydfmld.yepmcg 

"Peyfmph,"dfjd.rmx 




19

MdQ.jdLgdHzjgdOjcc.


Mdur.dxqlkieqpxjx dQadyedyfjdcr.y,dMdfrxdpeydkjjpdrkcjdkzmphdlg.jci
yedkjcmjtjdNrovdZjprqcxdhqmcyg dMdfrxdjbajoyjxdrdzmphmphdazeocrlrymep
eidfm.dmppeojpojdufjpdAemzeydofrccjphjxdfml dKqydpeu,duryofmph
fmldr.dfjd.yeex,dufmyjdrpxdcmladrhrmp.ydyfjdurcc,drpxdfjrzmphdyfj
xrlpmphdrxlm..mepdirccdizeldfm.dcma.,dMdxeqkyjxdpedcephjz 

KqydAemzeydfrxdyqzpjxdyedHmzrqx 

"Ufrydrzjdgeqzdhzeqpx.diezdrzzj.ymphdfml?"

"Xedgeqdjbajoydljdyedhmtjdyfjldyedgeq?"

"R.drdlryyjzdeidoeqzyj.g,dgj. "

Hmzrqxdceevjxdrydfmldxeqkyiqccg dFjdur.dyezpdkjyujjpdrdxj.mzjdye
zjiq.jdzqxjcgdrpxdyfjdacjr.qzjdeidyzmqlafmphdetjzdfm.drxtjz.rzg 

"GeqdyfmpvdMdfrtjdlrxjdrdlm.yrvj,dMd.qaae.j?"dfjd.pjjzjx 

"Mydueqcxdpeyd.qzazm.jdlj,"dzjacmjxdAemzey,dumyfdrd.eqaçepdei
lrcmoj 

Hmzrqx'.dirojdyeevdepdrdxjjajzdymphjdeidzjx 

"_Jfdkmjp_,doeljdmpdfjzj dGeqd.frccdnqxhjdiezdgeqz.jci "ddFjdicqph
eajpdyfjdxeezdeidyfjd_.rcep_,drpxdujdar..jxdmp,dcjrtmphdNrovdZjprqcx
mpdyfjdorzjdeidyfjdyuedeyfjzdljp 

"Peu,dL dAemzey,"d.rmxdHmzrqxdcrgmphdfm.dfrydepdyfjdyrkcj,drpx
.ajrvmphdumyfdyfjdqyle.yd.rzor.l,d"Mdumccdyzjrydgeqdyedrdcmyycj
cjoyqzjdepdxjyjoymtjduezv dMdumccd.feudgeqdfeudujdlexjzp.duezv "

"_Kmjp!_"d.rmxdAemzey,doelae.mphdfml.jcidyedcm.yjp d"Mdumccd.feu
geqdfeudrxlmzrkcgdyfjdEcxdHqrzxdorpdcm.yjp,"drpxdfjdcjrpjxdkrovdrpx
oce.jxdfm.djgj.,deajpmphdyfjldiezdrdleljpydyedzjlrzv d"Xedpeydijrz
yfrydMd.frccd.cjja dMdumccdryyjpxdle.ydorzjiqccg "

"Eidoeqz.j,"dkjhrpdHmzrqx,d"Md.eepd.rudyfzeqhfdrccdyfrydOfmcmrp
yelieecjzg dYuedljpdujzjdmpdmy--kqydyfjgdujzjdpeydlg.yjzmeq.
iezjmhpjz.!dRccdyfrydur.drdkcmpx "

"Tjzgdozjxmyrkcjd.edirz,dlgdxjrzdHmzrqx,"dlqzlqzjx
Aemzey d"J.ajomrccgdriyjzdyfrydocjtjzdyzmovdeidyfjmz.dumyfdyfj
lryofdrpxdomhrzjyyjdjpx "

Hmzrqxdhcrzjx,dkqydoepympqjx:

"Rdlrpdlq.ydfrtjdkjjpdoeppjoyjxdumyfdyfjdor.j,dmpdezxjzdyedxmh
yfjdhzrtj dYfjzjdm.dpedlrpdufedroyqrccgdkjpjimy.dkgdyfjdozmlj,
kqydyfjzjdur.drdlrpdufedyfeqhfydfjdueqcxdkjpjimy dMdfjrzxdei
NrovdZjprqcx'.dwqrzzjcdumyfdfm.diryfjz,drpxdeidyfjdyfzjry.dyfry
fjdfrxdq.jx dYfjdleymtjdur.dj.yrkcm.fjx dPeudr.dyedljrp. dNrov
Zjprqcxdur.dmpdLjzcmptmccjdyfrydpmhfy dFjdoepojrcjxdyfjdiroy--
ufmofdyqzpjxd.q.amomepdmpyedojzyrmpyg dYfjpdujdieqpxdrd.joepx
tmoyml--_.yrkkjxdumyfdyfjd.rljdxrhhjz_ dUjdvpeudufjpdyfrydxrhhjz
ur.d.yecjp dOrayrmpdFr.ymph.dfjzjdorpdimbdyfjdymlj dNrovdZjprqcx,
rzzmtmphdizeldOfjzkeqzh,dur.dyfjdepcgdajz.epdufedoeqcxdfrtjdyrvjp
my dMdfrtjdrooeqpyjxdiezdrccdyfjdeyfjzdljlkjz.deidyfjdfeq.jfecx "

Aemzeydmpyjzzqayjx:

"Geqdrzjduzeph dYfjzjdm.depjdeyfjzdajz.epdufedoeqcxdfrtjdyrvjp
yfjdxrhhjz "

"GeqdzjijzdyedL d.yepez?dFjdrzzmtjxdrydyfjdizepydxeez,dmpdrp
rqyelekmcjdufmofdfrxdkzeqhfydfmld.yzrmhfydizeldOrcrm. dRf,dkjcmjtj
lj,dMdfrtjdceevjxdmpyedjtjzgyfmph ddL dNrovdZjprqcxdrzzmtjxdkg
yzrmp dRpdfeqzdjcra.jxdkjyujjpdfm.drzzmtrc,drpxdyfjdleljpydfj
azj.jpyjxdfml.jcidrydyfjdfeq.j dUmyfeqydxeqky,dfjd.rudOrayrmp
Fr.ymph.drpxdfm.doelarpmepdcjrtjdyfjd.fjx,d.cmaajxdmpdfml.jcidrpx
yeevdyfjdxrhhjz,d.yrkkjxdfm.drooelacmojdmpdyfjd.fjx--"

"Ufedur.drczjrxgdxjrx!"

Hmzrqxd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. 

"Ae..mkcgdfjdxmxdpeydek.jztjdyfry dFjdlrgdfrtjdnqxhjxdfmldyedkj
.cjjamph dUmyfeqydxeqkydyfjgdfrxdrdzjpxjsteq. dMpdrpgdor.jdfj
vpjudyfm.draarzjpyd.joepxdlqzxjzdueqcxdhzjrycgdoelacmoryjdyfj
or.j dMydxmx "

"KqydmydoeqcxdpeydxjojmtjdL dHmzrqx,"dlqzlqzjxdAemzey 

"Geqdleovdgeqz.jcidrydlj dKqydMdumccdhmtjdgeqdepjdcr.ydmzzjiqyrkcj
azeei dLrxrljdZjprqcx'.d.yezgdur.dirc.j--rdirkzmorymepdizeldkjhmppmph
yedjpx dUjdkjcmjtjdLrxrljdZjprqcxdyedfrtjdcetjxdfjzdfq.krpx--_gjy
.fjdcmjxdyed.fmjcxdfm.dlqzxjzjz_ dIezdufeldumccdrduelrpdcmj?
.eljymlj.diezdfjz.jci,dq.qrccgdiezdyfjdlrpd.fjdcetj.,d_rcurg._
iezdfjzdofmcxzjp dYfrydm.dyfjdcr.y--yfjdmzzjiqyrkcjdazeei dGeqdorp
peydhjydzeqpxdmy "

Hmzrqxdarq.jx,dicq.fjxdrpxdyzmqlafrpy dAemzeydzjhrzxjxdfmld.yjrxmcg 

"Yfrydm.dlgdor.j,"d.rmxdHmzrqx d"Ufrydfrtjdgeqdyed.rgdyedmy?"

"Epcgdyfrydyfjzjdm.depjdyfmphdgeqdfrtjdirmcjxdyedyrvjdmpyedrooeqpy "

"Ufrydm.dyfry?"

"NrovdZjprqcxdur.dazj.qlrkcgdrowqrmpyjxdumyfdyfjdacrppmphdeqydei
yfjdhecidoeqz.j dFjdvpjudyfrydyfjdkexgdueqcxdkjdxm.oetjzjxdrcle.y
rydepoj,dufjpdyfjgd.yrzyjxdyedxmhdyfjdkqpvjz "

Hmzrqxdcrqhfjxdeqydceqx 

"Kqydmydm.dmxmeymodufrydgeqd.rgdyfjzj!dFjdurpyjxdyfjdkexgdyedkj
ieqpx!dQpymcdmydur.dieqpx,dfjdoeqcxdpeydazj.qljdxjryf,drpxdueqcx
frtjdkjjpdqprkcjdyedjpyjzdmpyedfm.dmpfjzmyrpoj "

Md.rudrdwqmovdicr.fdeidhzjjpdmpdAemzey'.djgj.dr.dfjdze.jdyedfm.dijjy 

"Yfjpdufgdkqzgdmy?"dfjdr.vjxd.eiycg d"Zjicjoy,dHmzrqx d.mpojdmydur.
yedNrovdZjprqcx'.drxtrpyrhjdyfrydyfjdkexgd.feqcxdkjdieqpxdumyfeqy
xjcrg,d_ufgdxmhdrdhzrtjdrydrcc?_"

Hmzrqxdxmxdpeydzjacg dYfjdwqj.ymepdieqpxdfmldqpazjarzjx ddFjd.fzqhhjx
fm.d.feqcxjz.dr.dyfeqhfdyedmpymlryjdyfrydmydur.deidpedmlaezyrpoj 

Aemzeydletjxdyeurzx.dyfjdxeez dMdiecceujxdfml 

"Yfjzjdm.depjdlezjdyfmphdyfrydgeqdfrtjdirmcjxdyedyrvjdmpyedrooeqpy,"
fjd.rmxdetjzdfm.d.feqcxjz 

"Ufrydm.dyfry?"

"Yfjdamjojdeidcjrxdamamph,"d.rmxdAemzey,drpxdcjiydyfjdzeel 

NrovdZjprqcxd.ymccd.yeexdmpdyfjdfrcc,dumyfdrdufmyjdxqlkdiroj,dkqydr.
ujdorljdeqydeidyfjd_.rcep_,dfjdceevjxdqad.frzacg dRydyfjd.rljdleljpy
yfjzjdur.dyfjd.eqpxdeidrdieeyirccdepdyfjd.yrmzor.j dLz. dZjprqcx
ur.dxj.ojpxmphdmy dRydyfjd.mhfydeidfjzd.ep,d.yrpxmphdkjyujjpdyfj
yuedlgzlmxep.deidyfjdcru,d.fjd.yeaajxdr.dyfeqhfdajyzmimjx 

"Nrov,"d.fjdircyjzjx d"Nrov,dufrydm.dyfm.?"

Fjdceevjxdqadrydfjz,dfm.dirojd.jy 

"Yfjgdfrtjdrzzj.yjxdlj,dleyfjz "

"Ufry?"

.fjdqyyjzjxdrdamjzomphdozg,drpxdkjiezjdrpgdepjdoeqcxdhjydyedfjz
.urgjxdrpxdijccdfjrtmcg dUjdkeyfdzrpdyedfjzdrpxdcmiyjxdfjzdqa dMp
rdlmpqyjdAemzeyd.yeexdqadrhrmp 

".fjdfr.doqydfjzdfjrxdkrxcg,depdyfjdoezpjzdeidyfjd.yrmz. dMdirpog
yfjzjdm.drd.cmhfydoepoq..mepdrc.e dMidHmzrqxdurpy.drd.yryjljpydizel
fjz,dfjdumccdfrtjdyedurmy d.fjdumccdazekrkcgdkjdqpoep.omeq.diezdry
cjr.ydrdujjv "

Xjpm.jdrpxdIzrpçem.jdfrxdzqpdyedyfjmzdlm.yzj..,drpxdcjrtmphdfjz
mpdyfjmzdofrzhjdAemzeydcjiydyfjdfeq.j dFjdurcvjxdumyfdfm.dfjrxdkjpy
xeup,dizeupmphdyfeqhfyiqccgdrydyfjdhzeqpx dIezd.eljdymljdMdxmxdpey
.ajrv,dkqydrydcr.ydMdtjpyqzjxdyedaqydrdwqj.ymepdyedfml 

"Xedgeqdkjcmjtjdyfjp,dmpd.amyjdeidrccdraajrzrpoj.dyedyfjdoepyzrzg,
yfrydNrovdZjprqcxdlrgdpeydkjdhqmcyg?"

Aemzeydxmxdpeydrp.ujzdrydepoj,dkqydriyjzdrdcephdurmydfjd.rmxdhzrtjcg:

"Mdxedpeydvpeu,dFr.ymph. dYfjzjdm.dnq.ydrdofrpojdeidmy dEidoeqz.j
Hmzrqxdm.drccduzeph--uzephdizeldkjhmppmphdyedjpx dMidNrovdZjprqcx
m.dhqmcyg,dmydm.dmpd.amyjdeidHmzrqx'.drzhqljpy.,dpeyd_kjorq.j_
eidyfjl dRpxdyfjdhzrtj.ydmpxmoyljpydrhrmp.ydfmldm.dvpeupdepcgdyedlj "

"Ufrydm.dyfry?"dMdr.vjx,dmlazj..jx 

"Midgeqdueqcxdq.jdgeqzdhzjgdojcc.,drpxd.jjdyfjdufecjdor.jdocjrzcg
r.dMdxe,dgeqdyeedueqcxdajzojmtjdmy,dlgdizmjpx "

Yfm.dur.dufrydMdorccjxdepjdeidAemzey'.dmzzmyrymphdrp.ujz. dFjdujpy
ep,dumyfeqydurmymphdiezdljdyed.ajrv 

"Cjydq.durcvdyfm.durgdyedyfjd.jr dUjdumccd.mydepdyfrydcmyycjdleqpx
yfjzj,detjzceevmphdyfjdkjrof,drpxdzjtmjudyfjdor.j dGeqd.frccdvpeu
rccdyfrydMdvpeu,dkqydMdueqcxdazjijzdyfrydgeqd.feqcxdoeljdrydyfj
yzqyfdkgdgeqzdeupdjiiezy.--peydkgdlgdcjrxmphdgeqdkgdyfjdfrpx "

Ujdj.yrkcm.fjxdeqz.jctj.depdyfjdhzr..gdvpeccdr.dAemzeydfrxd.qhhj.yjx,
ceevmphdeqydyed.jr dIzeldirzyfjzdrcephdyfjd.rpx,dyfjdozmj.deidyfj
kryfjz.dzjrofjxdq.dirmpycg dYfjd.jrdur.deidyfjdarcj.ydkcqj,drpxdyfj
frcogepdorcldzjlmpxjxdljdeidyfjdxrgdujdfrxdrzzmtjxdrydLjzcmptmccj,
lgdeupdheexd.amzmy.,drpxdAemzey'.d.qhhj.ymepdyfrydMdur.d"ijg "dUfry
rdcephdymljd.jjljxdyedfrtjdjcra.jxd.mpojdyfjp dRpxdmpdzjrcmygdmy
ur.depcgdyfzjjdxrg.!

"Yfmpv,dlgdizmjpx,"d.rmxdAemzey'.dtemojdjpoeqzrhmphcg dd"Rzzrphjdgeqz
mxjr. dKjdljyfexmorc dKjdezxjzcg ddYfjzjdm.dyfjd.jozjydeid.qooj.. "

Mdjpxjrteqzjxdyedekjgdfml,dor.ymphdlgdlmpxdkrovdetjzdrccdyfj
xjyrmc.deidyfjdor.j dRpxdzjcqoyrpycgdmyd.jjljxdyedljdyfrydyfj
epcgdocjrzdrpxdae..mkcjd.ecqymepdur.dyfrydeidHmzrqx--ufmofdAemzey
xj.am.jx dMdzjicjoyjxdrpju dMidyfjzjdur.dxrgcmhfydrpgufjzjdmydur.
mpdyfjdxmzjoymepdeidLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc dHmzrqxdur.dmhpezrpydeidfjz
oeppjoymepdumyfdyfjdKjzecxgdOr.j dAemzeydfrxdxjocrzjxdyfjdKjzecxg
Or.jdyedkjdrccdmlaezyrpy dMydur.dyfjzjdMdlq.yd.jjv dMdur.depdyfj
zmhfydyzrovdpeu dRpxd.qxxjpcgdMd.yrzyjxdr.drpdmxjrdeidkjumcxjzmph
cqlmpe.mygd.feydmpyedlgdkzrmp dYzjlkcmphdMdkqmcydqadlgdfgaeyfj.m. 


"Geqdfrtjdrdcmyycjdmxjr,dMd.jj,d_lepdrlm_!dOramyrc dUjdazehzj.. "

Md.rydqa,drpxdcmydrdamaj 

"Aemzey,"dMd.rmx,d"myd.jjl.dyedljdujdfrtjdkjjpd.yzrphjcgdzjlm.. dM
.rgduj--rcyfeqhfdMdxrzjd.rgd_M_dueqcxdkjdpjrzjzdyfjdlrzv dKqydgeq
lq.ydargdyfjdajprcygdeidgeqzdxjyjzlmpjxd.jozjog d.edMd.rgdrhrmpduj
frtjdkjjpd.yzrphjcgdzjlm.. dYfjzjdm.d.eljdepjdujdfrtjdiezheyyjp "

"Rpxdufedm.dyfry?"dmpwqmzjxdAemzey,dumyfdyumpvcmphdjgj. 

"Hjezhj.dOeppjrq!"




20

RpdRlrsmphd.yryjljpy


YfjdpjbydleljpydAemzeydjlkzrojxdljdurzlcg d"_Jpimp!_dGeqdfrtj
rzzmtjx dRpxdrccdkgdgeqz.jci dMydm.d.qajzk!ddOepympqjdgeqz
zjr.epmph dGeqdrzjdzmhfy dXjomxjxcgdujdfrtjdxepjduzephdyediezhjy
Hjezhj.dOeppjrq "

Mdur.d.edicryyjzjxdkgdyfjdcmyycjdlrp'.draazetrcdyfrydMdoeqcxdfrzxcg
oepympqj dKqydrydcr.ydMdoeccjoyjxdlgdyfeqhfy.drpxdujpydep 

"Hjezhj.dOeppjrqdxm.raajrzjxdyujpygdgjrz.drhe,dkqydujdfrtjdpedzjr.ep
yedkjcmjtjdyfrydfjdm.dxjrx "

"_Rqoqpjljpy_,"drhzjjxdAemzey d"Azeojjx "

"Yfjzjiezjdujdumccdr..qljdyfrydfjdm.drcmtj "

"Jbroycg "

"Ezdyfrydfjdur.drcmtjdqpymcdzjojpycg "

"_Xjdlmjqbdjpdlmjqb!_"

"Ujdumccdazj.qlj,"dMdoepympqjx,dlgdjpyfq.mr.ldzm.mph,d"yfrydfj
fr.dirccjpdepdjtmcdxrg. dFjdfr.dkjoeljdrdozmlmprc,drpdrarofj,dr
yzrla--rdufrydgeqdumcc dFjdofrpoj.dyedoeljdyedLjzcmptmccj dYfjzj
fjdimpx.dyfjduelrpdfjdfr.dpjtjzdojr.jxdyedcetj "

"Jfdjf!dYfjd.jpymljpyrcmyg,"durzpjxdAemzey 

"Ufjzjdepjdfryj.depjdrc.edcetj.,"dMdwqeyjxdezdlm.wqeyjx dd"Rydrpg
zryjdfjdimpx.dfjzdyfjzj,dcmtmphdqpxjzdrpdr..qljxdprlj dKqyd.fjdfr.
rdpjudcetjz,dyfjdJphcm.flrp,dZjprqcx dHjezhj.dOeppjrq,dyfjdljlezg
eidecxduzeph.dzm.mphdmpdfml,dwqrzzjc.dumyfdyfm.dZjprqcx dFjdcmj.dmp
urmydiezdfmldr.dfjdoelj.dyedtm.mydfm.dlm.yzj..,drpxd.yrk.dfmldmp
yfjdkrov dYfjp,dyjzzmimjxdrydufrydfjdfr.dxepj,dfjd.yrzy.dyedxmhdr
hzrtj dMdmlrhmpjdmydcmvjcgdyfrydLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdoelj.deqydyedceev
iezdfjzdcetjz d.fjdrpxdOeppjrqdfrtjdrdyjzzmkcjd.ojpj dFjdxzrh.dfjz
mpyedyfjd.fjx,drpxdyfjzjd.qxxjpcgdircc.dxeupdmpdrpdjamcjaymodimy 
Peud.qaae.mphdNrovdZjprqcxdyedraajrz dLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdyjcc.dfmldrcc,
aempy.deqydyedfmldyfjdxzjrxiqcdoep.jwqjpoj.dyedfjzdxrqhfyjzdmidyfm.
.orpxrcdeidyfjdar.ydm.dzjtmtjx dFm.diryfjz'.dlqzxjzjzdm.dxjrx--cjy
yfjldxedyfjmzdkj.ydyedfq.fdmydqa dNrovdZjprqcxdoep.jpy.--hej.dye
yfjdfeq.jdrpxdfr.drpdmpyjztmjudumyfdfm.dleyfjz,dumppmphdfjzdetjzdye
fm.daempydeidtmju dAzmljxdumyfdyfjd.yezgdyfrydLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdfr.
.qhhj.yjxdyedfml,d.fjdajzlmy.dfjz.jcidyedkjdhrhhjxdrpxdkeqpx dYfjzj,
Aemzey,dufrydxedgeqdyfmpvdeidyfry?"dMdcjrpjxdkrov,dicq.fjxdumyf
yfjdazmxjdeid.qooj..iqcdzjoep.yzqoymep 

Aemzeydceevjxdrydljdyfeqhfyiqccg 

"Mdyfmpvdyfrydgeqd.feqcxduzmyjdiezdyfjdVmpjlr,d_lepdrlm_,"dfj
zjlrzvjxdrydcr.y 

"Geqdljrp--?"

"Mydueqcxdlrvjdrdheexdimcl,dyfjd.yezgdyfrydgeqdfrtjdzjoeqpyjxdye
ljdyfjzj--kqydmydkjrz.dped.ezydeidzj.jlkcrpojdyedjtjzgxrgdcmij "

"MdrxlmydyfrydMdfrtjp'ydhepjdmpyedrccdyfjdxjyrmc.,dkqy--"

"Geqdfrtjdhepjdiqzyfjz--geqdfrtjdmhpezjxdyfjldlrhpmimojpycg dUfry
rkeqydyfjdurgdyfjdyuedljpdujzjdxzj..jx?dXedgeqd.qhhj.ydyfrydriyjz
.yrkkmphdfm.dtmoyml,dOeppjrqdzjletjxdfm.d.qmydeidoceyfj.,dxeppjx
mydfml.jci,drpxdzjacrojxdyfjdxrhhjz?"

"Mdxep'yd.jjdyfrydyfrydlryyjz.,"dMdeknjoyjxdzryfjzdfqiimcg d"Fjdlrg
frtjdekyrmpjxdoceyfj.drpxdlepjgdizeldLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdkgdyfzjry.
jrzcmjzdmpdyfjdxrg "

"Kgdyfzjry.--jf?dGeqd.jzmeq.cgdrxtrpojdyfryd.qaae.mymep?"

"Ojzyrmpcg dFjdoeqcxdfrtjdyfzjryjpjxdyedzjtjrcdfjzdmxjpymygdyedyfj
Zjprqcx.,dufmofdueqcxdazekrkcgdfrtjdaqydrpdjpxdyedrccdfeaj.deidfjz
xrqhfyjz'.dlrzzmrhj "

"Geqdrzjduzeph,dFr.ymph. dFjdoeqcxdpeydkcrovlrmcdfjz,diezd.fjdfrxdyfj
ufmadfrpx dHjezhj.dOeppjrq,dzjljlkjz,dm.d.ymccdurpyjxdiezdlqzxjz dR
uezxdizeldfjzdrpxdfjdm.dmpdxrphjzdeidyfjdhqmcceympj "

Mdur.diezojx,dzryfjzdzjcqoyrpycg,dyedrxlmydyfjdyzqyfdeidyfm. 

"_Geqz_dyfjezg,"dMdzjlrzvjxdromxcg,d"m.dxeqkycj..doezzjoydr.dye
rccdyfjdxjyrmc.?"

"Lgdyfjezgdm.dyfjdyzqyf,"d.rmxdAemzeydwqmjycg d"Rpxdyfjdyzqyfdm.
pjoj..rzmcgdoezzjoy dMpdgeqzdyfjezgdgeqdlrxjdrdiqpxrljpyrcdjzzez dGeq
ajzlmyyjxdgeqzdmlrhmprymepdyedcjrxdgeqdr.yzrgdumyfdlmxpmhfy
r..mhprymep.drpxdar..mepryjdcetjd.ojpj. dKqydmpdmptj.ymhrymphdozmlj
ujdlq.ydyrvjdeqzd.yrpxdqaepdyfjdoellepacroj d.frccdMdxjlep.yzryj
lgdljyfex.dyedgeq?"

"Ef,dkgdrccdljrp.dcjydq.dfrtjdrdxjlep.yzrymep!"

Aemzeyd.rydtjzgdqazmhfydrpxdkjhrp,durhhmphdfm.diezjimphjz
jlafrymorccgdyedjlafr.msjdfm.daempy. 

"Mdumccd.yrzydr.dgeqd.yrzyjxdizeldyfjdkr.modiroydeidHjezhj.
Oeppjrq dPeudyfjd.yezgdyecxdkgdLrxrljdKjzecxgdmpdoeqzydr.dyedyfj
'Zq..mrp.'dur.drxlmyyjxcgdrdirkzmorymep dMid.fjdur.dmppeojpy
eidoeppmtrpojdmpdyfjdozmlj,dmydur.doepoeoyjxdkgdfjz,drpxdkgdfjz
epcgdr.d.fjd.yryjx dMi,depdyfjdeyfjzdfrpx,d.fjdur.dpeydmppeojpy,
mydlmhfydfrtjdkjjpdmptjpyjxdkgdjmyfjzdfjzdezdHjezhj.dOeppjrq 

"Peudm.dyfm.dor.jdujdrzjdmptj.ymhrymph,dujdljjydyfjd.rljdyrcj dR.
Mdaempyjxdeqydyedgeq,dyfjdiroy.dzjpxjzdmydtjzgdqpcmvjcgdyfrydLrxrlj
Xrqkzjqmcdmp.amzjxdmy d.edujdyqzpdyedyfjdfgaeyfj.m.dyfrydyfjd.yezg
frxdmy.dezmhmpdmpdyfjdkzrmpdeidHjezhj.dOeppjrq dTjzgdheex dHjezhj.
Oeppjrq,dyfjzjiezj,dacrppjxdyfjdozmljdumyfdLrxrljdZjprqcxdr.dfm.
rooelacmoj d.fjdm.dmpdyfjdcmljcmhfy,drpxdkjfmpxdfjzdm.drd.frxeug
imhqzjdufe.jdrcmr.dm.dqpvpeupdyedq. 

"Peudcjydq.dhedorzjiqccgdetjzdyfjdZjprqcxdOr.jdizeldyfjdkjhmppmph,
.jyymphdxeupdjrofd.mhpmimorpydaempydmpdmy.dofzepecehmorcdezxjz dGeq
frtjdrdpeyjkeevdrpxdajpomc?ddHeex dPeudufrydm.dyfjdjrzcmj.ydaempy
yedpeyjdxeup?"

"Yfjdcjyyjzdyedgeq?"

"Yfrydur.dyfjdimz.ydujdvpjudeidmy,dkqydmydm.dpeydyfjdazeajzdkjhmppmph
eidyfjdor.j dYfjdimz.ydaempydeidrpgd.mhpmimorpoj,dMd.feqcxd.rg,
m.dyfjdofrphjdyfrydorljdetjzdL dZjprqcxd.fezycgdriyjzdrzzmtmphdmp
Ljzcmptmccj,drpxdufmofdm.dryyj.yjxdyedkgd.jtjzrcdumypj..j. dUj
frtjdrc.edyedoep.mxjzdfm.dizmjpx.fmadumyfdLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc,drpx
yfjdcrzhjd.ql.deidlepjgdarmxdetjzdyedfjz dIzeldyfjpojdujdorpdoelj
xmzjoycgdyedyfjd23zxdLrg "

Aemzeydarq.jx,docjrzjxdfm.dyfzery,drpxd.mhpjxdyedljdyeduzmyj 

"_23zxdLrg _dL dZjprqcxdwqrzzjc.dumyfdfm.d.epdetjzdcryyjz'.dum.f
yedlrzzgdLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc d.epdcjrtj.diezdArzm. 

"_24yfdLrg _dL dZjprqcxdrcyjz.dfm.dumcc,dcjrtmphdjpymzjdoepyzecdei
fm.diezyqpjdmpdfm.dumij'.dfrpx. 

"_7yfdNqpj _dWqrzzjcdumyfdyzrladmpdhrzxjp,dumypj..jxdkgdLrzyfj
Xrqkzjqmc 

"CjyyjzduzmyyjpdyedL dFjzoqcjdAemzey,dmlacezmphdr..m.yrpoj 

"Yjcjhzrld.jpydyedNrovdZjprqcx,dkmxxmphdfmldazeojjxdkgdyfjd_Rpsezr_
yedKqjpe.dRgzj. 

"Ofrqiijqz,dLr.yjz.,d.jpydeiidepdrdfecmxrg 

"Tm.mydeidrdcrxg,dyfrydjtjpmph dR.dfjdm.d.jjmphdfjzdeqy,dfm.duezx.
rzjd'Gj.,dgj.--kqydiezdHex'.d.rvjdhedpeu d d d '"

Aemzeydarq.jx 

"Yfjzj,dFr.ymph.,dyrvjdjrofdeidyfe.jdiroy.depjdkgdepj,doep.mxjz
yfjldorzjiqccgdkgdyfjl.jctj.drpxdmpdzjcrymepdyedyfjdufecj,drpxd.jj
midgeqdxedpeydhjydpjudcmhfydepdyfjdlryyjz "

Mdjpxjrteqzjxdoep.omjpymeq.cgdyedxedr.dfjdfrxd.rmx ddRiyjzdrdleljpy
ezdyue,dMd.rmxdzryfjzdxeqkyiqccg:

"R.dyedyfjdimz.ydaempy.,dyfjdwqj.ymepd.jjl.dyedkjdufjyfjzdujdrxeay
yfjdyfjezgdeidkcrovlrmc,dezdeidrpdmpiryqrymepdiezdyfm.duelrp "

"Kcrovlrmc,dxjomxjxcg dGeqdfjrzxdufryd.yepezd.rmxdr.dyedfm.dofrzroyjz
rpxdfrkmy. "

"Lz. dZjprqcxdxmxdpeydoepimzldfm.dtmju,"dMdrzhqjx 

"Ujdfrtjdrczjrxgd.jjpdyfrydLrxrljdZjprqcx'.dyj.ymlepgdorppeydkj
zjcmjxdqaepdmpdrpgdurg dUjdlq.ydyzq.ydyed.yepezdepdyfrydaempy "

".ymcc,dmidZjprqcxdfrxdrpdriirmzdumyfdrduelrpdorccjxdKjccr,dyfjzj
.jjl.dpedmpfjzjpydmlazekrkmcmygdmpdfm.dfrtmphdrpeyfjzdumyfdLrxrlj
Xrqkzjqmc "

"Pepjdufryjtjz,dMdhzrpydgeq,dFr.ymph. dKqydxmxdfj?"

"Yfjdcjyyjz,dAemzey dGeqdiezhjydyfjdcjyyjz "

"Pe,dMdxedpeydiezhjy dKqydufrydlrvj.dgeqdyfmpvdyfrydcjyyjzdur.
uzmyyjpdyedL dZjprqcx?"

"Ufgdmydur.dieqpxdmpdfm.daeovjydrpx--rpx--"

"Rpxdyfrydm.drcc!"doqydmpdAemzey d"Yfjzjdur.dpedljpymepdeidrpg
prljdyed.feudyedufeldyfjdcjyyjzdur.drxxzj..jx ddUjdr..qljxdmydur.
yedyfjdxjrxdlrpdkjorq.jdmydur.dmpdyfjdaeovjydeidfm.detjzoery dPeu,
_lepdrlm_,d.eljyfmphdrkeqydyfrydetjzoeryd.yzqovdljdr.dqpq.qrc dM
ljr.qzjxdmy,drpxdlrxjdyfjdzjlrzvdyfrydfjduezjdfm.detjzoerydtjzg
ceph dYfrydzjlrzvd.feqcxdfrtjdhmtjpdgeqdyedyfmpv "

"Mdyfeqhfydgeqdujzjdnq.yd.rgmphdmydiezdyfjd.rvjdeid.rgmphd.eljyfmph,"
Mdoepij..jx 

"Rf,d_wqjccjdmxéj_!dCryjzdgeqdek.jztjxdljdljr.qzmphdyfjdetjzoery
eidL dNrovdZjprqcx d_Jfdkmjp_,dL dNrovdZjprqcxdujrz.dfm.detjzoery
tjzgd.fezy dAqydyfe.jdyuediroy.dyehjyfjzdumyfdrdyfmzx,dprljcgdyfry
L dNrovdZjprqcxdicqphdeqydeidyfjdfeq.jdmpdrdfqzzgdepdfm.dxjarzyqzj
iezdArzm.,drpxdyjccdljdufrydgeqdlrvjdeidmy!"

"Md.jj,"dMd.rmxd.ceucg,dr.dyfjdljrpmphdeidAemzey'.dzjlrzv.dkezj
mpdqaepdlj d"Yfrydcjyyjzdur.duzmyyjpdyedNrovdZjprqcx--peydyedfm.
iryfjz dFjdorqhfydqadyfjduzephdetjzoerydmpdfm.dfr.yjdrpxdrhmyrymep "

Aemzeydpexxjx 

"_Azéom.jljpy!_dUjdorpdzjyqzpdyedyfm.daempydcryjz dIezdyfjdleljpy
cjydq.doepyjpydeqz.jctj.dumyfdroojaymphdyfjdcjyyjzdr.dfrtmphdpeyfmph
yedxedumyfdL dZjprqcxd_aèzj_,drpxdar..dyedyfjdpjbydofzepecehmorc
jtjpy "

"Lrgd23zx,"dMdzjrx,d"L dZjprqcxdwqrzzjc.dumyfdfm.d.epdetjzdcryyjz'.
um.fdyedlrzzgdLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc d.epdcjrtj.diezdArzm. dMdxep'yd.jj
rpgyfmphdlqofdyedzjlrzvdqaepdyfjzj,drpxdyfjdrcyjzmphdeidyfjdumcc
yfjdiecceumphdxrgd.jjl.d.yzrmhfyiezurzxdjpeqhf dMydur.dyfjdxmzjoy
zj.qcydeidyfjdwqrzzjc "

"Ujdrhzjj,d_lepdrlm_--rydcjr.ydr.dyedyfjdorq.j dKqydufrydjbroy
leymtjdqpxjzcrgdyfm.dazeojxqzjdeidL ddZjprqcx'.?"

Mdeajpjxdlgdjgj.dmpd.qzazm.j 

"Rphjzdrhrmp.ydfm.d.epdeidoeqz.j "

"Gjydfjduzeyjdfmldriijoymepryjdcjyyjz.dyedArzm.?"

".edNrovdZjprqcxd.rg.,dkqydfjdorppeydazexqojdyfjl "

"Ujcc,dcjydq.dar..dizeldyfry "

"Peudujdoeljdyedyfjdxrgdeidyfjdyzrhjxg dGeqdfrtjdacrojxdyfjdjtjpy.
eidyfjdlezpmphdmpdrdojzyrmpdezxjz ddFrtjdgeqdrpgdnq.ymimorymep
iezdyfry?"

"Mdfrtjdr.ojzyrmpjxdyfrydyfjdcjyyjzdyedljdur.dae.yjxdrydyfjd.rlj
ymljdr.dyfjdyjcjhzrldur.dxj.aryofjx dLr.yjz.dur.dmpiezljxdfjdoeqcx
yrvjdrdfecmxrgd.fezycgdriyjzurzx. ddMpdlgdeampmepdyfjdwqrzzjcdumyf
yfjdyzrladyeevdacrojdrpyjzmezdyedyfj.jdfraajpmph. "

"Mdxedpeyd.jjdyfrydgeqdorpdimbdyfrydxjimpmyjcg--qpcj..dgeqdwqj.ymep
Lrxjlem.jccjdXrkzjqmcdrhrmp "

"Yfjzjdm.dpedpjjx dMdrld.qzjdeidmy dRpxdmidgeqdxedpeyd.jjdyfry,
geqd.jjdpeyfmph,dFr.ymph.!"

Mdceevjxdrydfmldiezdrdleljpy 

"Eidoeqz.j!dMdrldrpdmxmey dMidyfjdyzrladur.dHjezhj.dOeppjrq,dmydur.
riyjzdyfjd.yezlgdmpyjztmjudumyfdfmldyfrydLz dZjprqcxdraazjfjpxjx
xrphjz dFjd.jpydrurgdyfjdofrqiijqz,dLr.yjz.,dufeldfjd.q.ajoyjxdei
kjmphdmpdyfjdeyfjz'.darg,dfjdumzjxdyedfm.d.ep,drpxd.jpydiezdgeq "

Rdirmpyd.lmcjdoze..jxdAemzey'.dcma. 

"Geqdxedpeydyfmpvdmyd.yzrphjdyfrydfjd.feqcxdq.jdjbroycgdyfjd.rlj
jbazj..mep.dmpdfm.dcjyyjzdr.dLrxrljdZjprqcxdq.jxdcryjzdmpdfjz
.yezg?dMidyfjdljpymepdeid.rpymrhedur.drdkcmpx,dufgd.feqcxdZjprqcx
.ajrvdeidmy,drpx--ufrydm.dlezj--.jpxdfm.d.epdyfjzj?"

"Mydm.daqsscmph,dMdrxlmy,dkqydajzfra.dujd.frccdimpxd.eljdjbacrprymep
cryjz dUjdoeljdpeudyedyfjdjtjpmph,drpxdyfjdtm.mydeidyfjdlg.yjzmeq.
crxg dMdoepij..dyfrydyfrydirmzcgdkriicj.dlj,dqpcj..dmydur.dLrxrlj
Xrqkzjqmc,dr.dIzrpçem.jdrccdrcephdlrmpyrmpjx "

Aemzeyd.feevdfm.dfjrx 

"Lgdizmjpx,dlgdizmjpx,dufjzjdrzjdgeqzdumy.durpxjzmph?ddZjljlkjz
yfjdizrhljpydeidofjwqj,drpxdyfjdiroydyfrydyfjdprljdKjccrdXqtjjp
ur.dirmpycgdirlmcmrzdyed.yepez,drpxdMdyfmpvdujdlrgdyrvjdmydiez
hzrpyjxdyfrydKjccrdXqtjjpdm.dyfjdiqccdprljdeidNrov'.dqpvpeup
oezzj.aepxjpy,drpxdyfrydmydur.d.fjdufedorljdyedyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj
yfrydpmhfy dUfjyfjzd.fjdmpyjpxjxdyed.jjdNrov,dezdufjyfjzd.fjdljrpy
rccdrcephdyedraajrcdyedfm.diryfjzdujdorppeydkjdojzyrmp,dkqydM
yfmpvdujdlrgdr..qljdyfrydyfm.dm.dufrydeooqzzjx d.fjdazexqojxdfjz
ocrmldqaepdNrov,dazekrkcgd.feujxdcjyyjz.dyfrydfjdfrxduzmyyjpdfjz,
rpxdyfjdecxjzdlrpdyzmjxdyedkqgdfjzdeiidkgduzmymphdrdofjwqj dYfm.
.fjdmpxmhprpycgdyezjdqa dYfjdyjzl.deidfjzdcjyyjzdrzjdyfe.jdei
rduelrpdhjpqmpjcgdmpdcetj,drpxd.fjdueqcxdazekrkcgdxjjacgdzj.jpy
kjmphdeiijzjxdlepjg dMpdyfjdjpxdfjdheydzmxdeidfjz,drpxdfjzjdyfj
uezx.dyfrydfjdq.jxdrzjd.mhpmimorpy "

"'Gj.,dgj.,dkqydiezdHex'.d.rvjdhedpeu,'"dMdzjajryjx dd"Yfjgd.jjl
yedljdrdcmyycjdtjfjljpy,dajzfra.,dyfrydm.drcc "

"Yfrydm.djpeqhf dFjdur.dxj.ajzryjcgdrpbmeq.diezdyfjdhmzcdye
he dUfg?dPeydepcgdkjorq.jdyfjdmpyjztmjudur.dqpacjr.rpy ddPe,
mydur.dyfjdymljdyfrydur.d.cmaamphdkg,drpxdiezd.eljdzjr.epdymlj
ur.dazjomeq. "

"Ufgd.feqcxdmydkj?"dMdr.vjx,dkjumcxjzjx 

"Yfrydm.dufrydujdr.vdeqz.jctj. dUfgd.feqcxdmydkj?ddKqydcryjzdujdfrtj
yfjdmpomxjpydeidyfjduzm.yduryof--ufmofdrhrmpd.feu.dq.dyfrydymljdacrg.
rdtjzgdmlaezyrpydarzydmpdyfjdozmlj dUjdrzjdpeudir.ydraazerofmph
yfjdroyqrcdxzrlr dMydm.dfrci-ar.ydyjpdufjpdKjccrdXqtjjpdcjrtj.,
rpxdkgdyfjdjtmxjpojdeidyfjduzm.yduryofdujdvpeudyfrydyfjdozmlj
ur.doellmyyjx,dezdrydrpgdzryjdyfrydmydur.d.yrhjx,dkjiezjdyujctj
e'oceov dUjdfrtjdzjtmjujxdrccdyfjdjtjpy.drpyjzmezdyedyfjdlqzxjz,
yfjzjdzjlrmp.depcgdepjdqpacrojx ddKgdyfjdxeoyez'.djtmxjpoj,dyfj
yzrla,dufjpdieqpx,dfrxdkjjpdxjrxdrydcjr.ydiezyg-jmhfydfeqz.--umyf
rdae..mkcjdlrzhmpdeidyujpyg-ieqzdfeqz.dlezj dPeu,dumyfdpedeyfjz
iroy.dyedfjcadljdyfrpdyfe.jdujdfrtjdxm.oq..jx,dMdacrojdyfjdxjryf
r.dfrtmphdeooqzzjxdepdyfjdlezpmphdeidNqpjd7yf "

Md.yrzjxdrydfml,d.yqajimjx 

"Kqydfeu?dUfg?dFeudorpdgeqdae..mkcgdvpeu?"

"Kjorq.jdepcgdmpdyfrydurgdorpdyfjd.jwqjpojdeidjtjpy.dkjdcehmorccg
jbacrmpjx d_Lepdrlm_,dMdfrtjdyrvjpdgeqd.yjadkgd.yjadrcephdyfj
urg dXedgeqdpeydpeud.jjdufrydm.d.edhcrzmphcgdacrmp?"

"LgdxjrzdAemzey,dMdorp'yd.jjdrpgyfmphdhcrzmphdrkeqydmy dMdxmxdyfmpv
Mdur.dkjhmppmphdyed.jjdlgdurgdkjiezj,dkqydM'ldpeudfeajcj..cgdiehhjx "

Aemzeydceevjxdrydljd.rxcg,drpxd.feevdfm.dfjrx dd"_LepdXmjq!_dKqy
mydm.d_yzm.yj_!dRdheexdmpyjccmhjpoj--rpxd.edxjacezrkcgdcrovmphdmp
ljyfex dYfjzjdm.drpdjbjzom.jdle.ydjbojccjpydiezdyfjdxjtjcealjpydei
yfjdcmyycjdhzjgdojcc. dMdumccdmlarzydmydyedgeq--"

"IezdFjrtjp'.d.rvj,dpeydpeu!dGeqdzjrccgdrzjdyfjdle.ydmzzmyrymphdei
ijcceu.,dAemzey dIezdheexpj..'d.rvj,dhjydepdrpxdyjccdljdufedvmccjx
L dZjprqcx "

"Yfrydm.dnq.ydufrydMdrldpeyd.qzjdeidr.dgjy "

"Kqydgeqd.rmxdmydur.dhcrzmphcgdocjrz?"

"Ujdyrcvdrydoze..-aqzae.j.,dlgdizmjpx dZjljlkjz,dmydm.dyuedozmlj.duj
rzjdmptj.ymhrymph--iezdufmof,dr.dMdaempyjxdeqydyedgeq,dujdfrtjdyfj
pjoj..rzgdyuedkexmj. ddYfjzj,dyfjzj,d_pjdteq.dmlarymjpyjsdar._!dM
jbacrmpdrcc dYedkjhmpdumyf,dujdraacgdeqzda.gofecehg dUjdimpxdyfzjj
aempy.drydufmofdL dZjprqcxdxm.acrg.drdxm.ympoydofrphjdeidtmjudrpx
roymep--yfzjjda.gofecehmorcdaempy.dyfjzjiezj ddYfjdimz.ydeooqz.dmlljxmryjcg
riyjzdrzzmtmphdmpdLjzcmptmccj,dyfjd.joepxdriyjzdwqrzzjccmphdumyf
fm.d.epdepdrdojzyrmpd.qknjoy,dyfjdyfmzxdepdyfjdlezpmphdeidNqpj
7yf dPeudiezdyfjdyfzjjdorq.j. dUjdorpdryyzmkqyjdPe d1dyedljjymph
LrxrljdXrqkzjqmc dPe d2dm.dmpxmzjoycgdoeppjoyjxdumyfdfjzd.mpojdmy
oepojzp.drdlrzzmrhjdkjyujjpdL dZjprqcx'.d.epdrpxdfjzdxrqhfyjz dKqy
yfjdorq.jdeidPe d3dm.dfmxxjpdizeldq. dUjdfrtjdyedxjxqojdmy dPeu,
_lepdrlm_,dcjydljdr.vdgeqdrdwqj.ymep;dufedxedujdkjcmjtjdyedfrtj
acrppjxdyfm.dozmlj?"

"Hjezhj.dOeppjrq,"dMd.rmxdxeqkyiqccg,djgjmphdAemzeydurzmcg 

"Jbroycg dPeudHmzrqxdcrmxdmydxeupdr.drpdrbmeldyfrydrduelrpdcmj.
yed.rtjdfjz.jci,dyfjdlrpd.fjdcetj.,drpxdfjzdofmcx d.mpojdujdrzj
.rym.imjxdyfrydur.dHjezhj.dOeppjrqdufedxmoyryjxdyfjdcmjdyedfjz,
rpxdr.dHjezhj.dOeppjrqdm.dpeydNrovdZjprqcx,diecceu.dyfrydyfj
yfmzxdor.jdm.daqydeqydeidoeqzy dRpx,d.ymccdryyzmkqymphdyfjdozmlj
yedHjezhj.dOeppjrq,dyfjdimz.ydm.djwqrccgd.e d.edujdrzjdiezojxdye
yfjd.joepx--yfrydLrxrljdZjprqcxdcmjxdiezdyfjd.rvjdeidyfjdlrpd.fj
cetjx--ezdmpdeyfjzduezx.,diezdyfjd.rvjdeidHjezhj.dOeppjrq dGeq
rhzjjdyedyfry "

"Gj.,"dMdrxlmyyjx d"Myd.jjl.dcehmorcdjpeqhf "

"_Kmjp!_dLrxrljdZjprqcxdcetj.dHjezhj.dOeppjrq ddUfe,dyfjp,dm.
Hjezhj.dOeppjrq?"

"Yfjdyzrla "

"Frtjdujdrpgdjtmxjpojdyed.feudyfrydLrxrljdZjprqcxdcetjxdyfjdyzrla?"

"Pe,dkqy--"

"Tjzgdujccdyfjp dXedpeydocmphdyedyfjezmj.dufjzjdiroy.dpedcephjz
.qaaezydyfjl dR.vdgeqz.jcidmp.yjrxdufedLrxrljdZjprqcxd_xmx_dcetj "

Md.feevdlgdfjrxdajzacjbjx 

"_Lrm.,deqm_,dgeqdvpeudajzijoycg dUfedxmxdLrxrljdZjprqcxdcetjd.e
xjrzcgdyfrydufjpd.fjd.rudfm.dxjrxdkexg,d.fjdijccdxeupdmpdrd.ueep?"

Md.yrzjxdxqlkieqpxjx 

"Fjzdfq.krpx?"dMdhr.ajx 

Aemzeydpexxjx 

"Fjzdfq.krpx--ezdHjezhj.dOeppjrq,dufmofjtjzdgeqdcmvjdyedorccdfml "

Mdzrccmjxdlg.jci 

"Kqydmy'.dmlae..mkcj "

"Feud'mlae..mkcj?'dXmxdujdpeydrhzjjdnq.ydpeudyfrydLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc
ur.dmpdrdae.mymepdyedkcrovlrmcdHjezhj.dOeppjrq?"

"Gj.,dkqy--"

"Rpxdxmxd.fjdpeydtjzgdjiijoymtjcgdkcrovlrmcdL ddZjprqcx?"

"Yfrydlrgdkjdyzqjdjpeqhf,dkqy--"

"Rpxdm.dmydpeydrdiroydyfrydujdvpeudpeyfmphdeidL ddZjprqcx'.dgeqyf
rpxdqakzmphmph?dYfrydfjd.azmph.d.qxxjpcgdmpyedjbm.yjpojdr.drdIzjpof
Orprxmrpdjbroycgdyujpyg-yuedgjrz.drhe?"

"Rccdyfrydm.d.e,"dMd.rmxdlezjdimzlcg,d"kqydgeqd.jjldyedljdyedkj
etjzceevmphdepjd.rcmjpydaempy "

"Ufrydm.dmy,dlgdizmjpx?"

"Ufg,dujdfrtjdrxlmyyjxdHjezhj.dOeppjrqdacrppjxdyfjdozmlj dYfrydkzmph.
q.dyedyfjdzmxmoqceq.d.yryjljpydyfrydfjdacrppjxdfm.deupdlqzxjz!"

"_Jfdkmjp,dlepdrlm_,"d.rmxdAemzeydacromxcg,d"yfrydm.dnq.ydufrydfj
xmxdxe!"




21

FjzoqcjdAemzeydepdyfjdOr.j!


Mpdrdljr.qzjxdtemoj,dAemzeydkjhrpdfm.djbae.mymep 

"Myd.jjl.d.yzrphjdyedgeq,d_lepdrlm_,dyfrydrdlrpd.feqcxdacrpdfm.
eupdxjryf?d.ed.yzrphj,dyfrydgeqdazjijzdyedzjnjoydyfjdyzqyfdr.
irpyr.ymo,drpxdyedzjtjzydyedrd.yezgdyfrydm.dmpdzjrcmygdyjpdymlj.
lezjdmlae..mkcj dGj.,dL dZjprqcxdacrppjxdfm.deupdxjryf,dkqydyfjzj
m.depjdxjyrmcdyfrydajzfra.dj.oraj.dgeq--fjdxmxdpeydmpyjpxdyedxmj "

Md.feevdlgdfjrx,dkjumcxjzjx 

"Kqydpe,dmydm.drccdle.yd.mlacjdzjrccg,"d.rmxdAemzeydvmpxcg d"Iez
yfjdozmljdyfrydL dZjprqcxdazeae.jxdrdlqzxjzjzdur.dpeydpjoj..rzg,
r.dMdyecxdgeq,dkqydrdkexgdur. dCjydq.dzjoep.yzqoy,d.jjmphdjtjpy.
yfm.dymljdizeldrdxmiijzjpydrphcj 

"Hjezhj.dOeppjrqdicmj.dizeldnq.ymoj--yedOrprxr ddYfjzj,dqpxjz
rpdr..qljxdprljdfjdlrzzmj.,drpxdimprccgdrowqmzj.drdtr.ydiezyqpj
mpd.eqyfdRljzmor dKqydyfjzjdm.drdpe.yrchmrdqaepdfmldiezdfm.deup
oeqpyzg dYujpygdgjrz.dfrtjdjcra.jx,dfjdm.doep.mxjzrkcgdofrphjx
mpdraajrzrpoj,dkj.mxj.dkjmphdrdlrpdeid.qofdjlmpjpojdyfrydpedepj
m.dcmvjcgdyedoeppjoydfmldumyfdrdiqhmymtjdizeldnq.ymojdlrpgdgjrz.
rhe dFjdxjjl.dmydwqmyjd.rijdyedzjyqzp dFjdyrvj.dqadfm.dfjrxwqrzyjz.
mpdJphcrpx,dkqydmpyjpx.dyed.ajpxdyfjd.qlljz.dmpdIzrpoj dRpxdmcc
iezyqpj,dyfrydek.oqzjdnq.ymojdufmofd.fraj.dljp'.djpx.,drpxdumcc
peydrcceudyfjldyedjtrxjdyfjdoep.jwqjpoj.deidyfjmzdroy.,dyrvj.dfml
yedLjzcmptmccj dYfjzj,dmpdyfjdufecjdeidIzrpoj,dm.dyfjdepjdajz.ep
ufedm.dorarkcjdeidzjoehpmsmphdfml dMydm.,deidoeqz.j,drdhecxdlmpj
yedLrxrljdXrqkzjqmc,drpxdrdhecxdlmpjdeidufmofd.fjdm.dpeyd.ceudye
yrvjdrxtrpyrhj dFjdm.dfjcacj..,drk.ecqyjcgdmpdfjzdaeujz dRpxd.fj
kcjjx.dfmldfjrtmcg 

"Rpxdyfjpdyfjdmpjtmyrkcjdfraajp. dNrovdZjprqcxdircc.dmpdcetjdumyfdyfj
kjrqymiqcdhmzcdfjd.jj.drcle.ydxrmcg,drpxdum.fj.dyedlrzzgdfjz dYfry
zeq.j.dfm.diryfjz dRydrccdoe.y.,dfjdumccdazjtjpydfm.d.epdlrzzgmph
yfjdxrqhfyjzdeidyfm.djtmcduelrp dNrovdZjprqcxdvpeu.dpeyfmphdei
fm.diryfjz'.dar.y,dkqydLrxrljdZjprqcxdvpeu.djtjzgyfmph d.fjdm.dr
uelrpdeidhzjrydiezojdeidofrzroyjz,drpxdar..mepryjcgdxjteyjxdyedfjz
fq.krpx dYfjgdyrvjdoeqp.jcdyehjyfjz ddZjprqcxd.jj.depcgdepjdurg
eidj.oraj--xjryf dFjdlq.ydraajrzdyedxmj,dmpdzjrcmygdj.oramphdye
rpeyfjzdoeqpyzgdufjzjdfjdumccd.yrzydrhrmpdqpxjzdrpdr..qljxdprlj,
rpxdufjzjdLrxrljdZjprqcx,dfrtmphdacrgjxdyfjdumxeu'.darzydiezdr
ufmcj,dorpdnempdfml dMydm.dj..jpymrcdyfryd.fjd.feqcxdfrtjdoepyzec
eidyfjdlepjg,d.edfjdrcyjz.dfm.dumcc ddFeudyfjgdljrpydyedlrprhjdyfj
kexgdkq.mpj..dezmhmprccg,dMdxedpeydvpeu--ae..mkcgdrpdrzyd.yqxjpy'.
.vjcjyep--rpxdrdimzjdezd.eljyfmphdeidyfjdvmpx,dkqydcephdkjiezj
yfjmzdacrp.dfrtjdlryqzjxdrpdjtjpydeooqz.dufmofdacrg.dmpyedyfjmz
frpx. dRdzeqhfdyzrla,dtmecjpydrpxdrkq.mtj,dimpx.dfm.durgdmpye
yfjdhrzxjp dYfjzjdm.drd.yzqhhcj,dL ddZjprqcxd.jjv.dyedjnjoydfml,
rpxd.qxxjpcgdyfjdyzrla,drpdjamcjaymo,dircc.dxeupdmpdrdimy dFjdm.
xjrx dL dZjprqcxdorcc.dfm.dumij dYehjyfjzdyfjgdxzrhdfmldmpyedyfj
.fjx--r.dujdvpeu,dyfjdjtjpydfrxdeooqzzjxdnq.ydeqy.mxj--rpxdyfjg
zjrcmsjdyfjdlrztjcceq.deaaezyqpmygdyfrydfr.dkjjpdteqof.rijxdyfjl dYfj
lrpdkjrz.dpedzj.jlkcrpojdyedL dZjprqcx,dkqydfjdm.dlmxxcj-rhjx,
eidrdq.qrcdIzjpofdygaj ddYfrydm.d.qiimomjpy 

"Mdzryfjzdirpogdyfrydyfjgd.rydepdyfjdkjpofdqadyfjzj,deqydeidjrz.fey
izeldyfjdfeq.j,dxm.oq..mphdlryyjz. dYfjmzdacrpdur.dwqmovcgdlrxj dYfj
mxjpymimorymepdlq.ydzj.yd.ecjcgdepdLrxrljdZjprqcx'.djtmxjpoj dNrov
Zjprqcxdrpxdyfjdofrqiijqzd(ufedfrxdkjjpdumyfdfm.dlr.yjzdyuedgjrz.)
lq.ydkjdheydeqydeidyfjdurg dMydur.dqpcmvjcgdyfrydyfjdIzjpofdueljp
.jztrpy.dueqcxdhedpjrzdyfjdkexg,drpxdmpdrpgdor.jdZjprqcxdmpyjpxjx
yedyrvjdljr.qzj.dyedxjojmtjdrpgdepjdpeydcmvjcgdyedraazjomryj
xjyrmc. dLr.yjz.dur.d.jpydeii,drdyjcjhzrldxj.aryofjxdyedNrov,
Kqjpe.dRgzj.dkjmphd.jcjoyjxdyedhmtjdozjxjpojdyedyfjd.yezgdyfry
Zjprqcxdfrxdxjomxjxdqaep dFrtmphdfjrzxdeidlj,dr.drdzryfjzdek.oqzj
jcxjzcgdxjyjoymtj,dfjduzeyjdfm.draajrcdiezdfjcadvpeumphdyfry,dufjp
Mdrzzmtjx,dyfjdazexqoymepdeidyfjdcjyyjzdueqcxdfrtjdrdazeieqpxdjiijoy
qaepdyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj--ufmof,deidoeqz.j,dmydxmx 

"Yfjgdxzj..jxdyfjdkexgdeidyfjdyzrladmpdrd.qmydeidL ddZjprqcx'.drpx
cjiydfm.dzrhhjxdoerydrpxdyzeq.jz.dkgdyfjdxeezdeidyfjd.fjx,dpey
xrzmphdyedyrvjdyfjldmpyedyfjdfeq.j dRpxdyfjp,dyedhmtjdozjxjpoj
yedyfjdyrcjdLrxrljdZjprqcxdur.dyedyjcc,dyfjgdxzetjdyfjdrjzeacrpj
xrhhjzdyfzeqhfdfm.dfjrzy dYfrydpmhfy,dL dZjprqcxdumccdimz.ydkmpx
rpxdhrhdfm.dumij,drpxdyfjp,dyrvmphdrd.arxj,dumccdxmhdrdhzrtjdmp
yfrydarzymoqcrzd.aeydeidhzeqpxdufjzjdfjdvpeu.dr--feudxedgeqdorcc
my?dkqpvrmz?--m.dyedkjdlrxj dMydm.dj..jpymrcdyfrydyfjdkexgd.feqcx
kjdieqpx--LrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdlq.ydfrtjdped.q.amomep. dEpdyfjdeyfjz
frpx,dmidrdcmyycjdymljdjcra.j.,drpgdxrphjz.dr.dyedmxjpymygdumcc
kjdhzjrycgdcj..jpjx dYfjp,dL dZjprqcxdumccdxepdyfjdyzrla'.dzrh.,
rpxd.fqiicjdeiidyedyfjd.yrymep,dufjzjdfjdumccdcjrtj,dqppeymojx,
kgdyfjd12:10dyzrmp d.mpojdyfjdozmljdumccdkjd.qaae.jxdyedfrtjdyrvjp
acrojdyuedfeqz.dcryjz,dped.q.amomepdorpdae..mkcgdryyrofdyedfml 

"Geqd.jjdpeudfm.drppegrpojdrydyfjdmpeaaezyqpjdtm.mydeidyfjdhmzc
Kjccr dJtjzgdleljpydeidxjcrgdm.diryrcdyedfm.dacrp. dFjdhjy.dzmxdei
fjzdr.d.eepdr.dfjdorp,dfeujtjz ddYfjp,dyeduezv!dFjdcjrtj.dyfjdizepy
xeezd.cmhfycgdrnrzdyedozjryjdyfjdmlazj..mepdyfrydyfjdr..r..mp.
cjiydyfrydurg dFjdkmpx.drpxdhrh.dLrxrljdZjprqcx,doezzjoymphdfm.
lm.yrvjdeidyujpyg-yuedgjrz.drhe,dufjpdyfjdcee.jpj..deidyfjdkepx.
orq.jxd.q.amomepdyedirccdqaepdfm.drooelacmoj,dkqydcjrtmphdfjz
azmljxdumyfdj..jpymrccgdyfjd.rljd.yezgdr.dfjdfrxdmptjpyjxdkjiezj,
azetmphdyfjdqpoep.omeq.dzjoemcdeidyfjdlmpxdrhrmp.ydezmhmprcmyg dYfj
pmhfydm.dofmccg,drpxdfjd.cma.depdrpdetjzoerydetjzdfm.dqpxjzoceyfmph,
mpyjpxmphdyedor.ydmydmpyedyfjdhzrtjdumyfdyfjdxjrxdlrp dFjdhej.deqy
kgdyfjdumpxeu,d.leeyfmphdetjzdyfjdiceujzdkjxdorzjiqccg,drpxdyfjzjkg
iqzpm.fmphdyfjdle.ydae.mymtjdjtmxjpojdrhrmp.ydfml.jci dFjdhej.deqy
epdyedyfjdcepjcgdhecidcmpv.,drpxdfjdxmh.--rpxdyfjp--"

"Gj.?"

"Rpxdyfjp,"d.rmxdAemzeydhzrtjcg,d"yfjdnq.ymojdyfrydfjdfr.d.e
cephdjcqxjxdetjzyrvj.dfml dRpdqpvpeupdfrpxd.yrk.dfmldmpdyfj
krov d d d dPeu,dFr.ymph.,dgeqdqpxjz.yrpxdufrydMdljrpdufjpdMdyrcv
eid_yue_dozmlj. dYfjdimz.ydozmlj,dyfjdozmljdyfrydL dZjprqcx,dmp
fm.drzzehrpoj,dr.vjxdq.dyedmptj.ymhryjd(rf,dkqydfjdlrxjdrdirleq.
lm.yrvjdyfjzj!dFjdlm.nqxhjxdFjzoqcjdAemzey!)dm.d.ectjx ddKqydkjfmpx
mydcmj.drdxjjajzdzmxxcj dRpxdyed.ectjdyfrydumccdkjdxmiimoqcy--.mpoj
yfjdozmlmprcdmpdfm.dum.xel,dfr.dkjjpdoepyjpydyedrtrmcdfml.jcidei
yfjdxjtmoj.dazjarzjxdkgdL ddZjprqcx dMydfr.dkjjpdrdarzymoqcrzcg
ajzacjbmphdrpxdkriicmphdlg.yjzgdyed.ectj dRdgeqphdfrpx,dcmvjdHmzrqx,
ufedxej.dpeydacrojdrpgdzjcmrpojdepdyfjda.gofecehg,dm.drcle.ydojzyrmp
yedirmc "

"Geq'zjdlrztjcceq.,dAemzey,"dMd.rmx,dumyfdrxlmzrymep dd"Rk.ecqyjcg
lrztjcceq. dPedepjdepdjrzyfdkqydgeqdoeqcxdfrtjdxepjdmy!"

Mdyfmpvdlgdazrm.jdacjr.jxdfml dIezdepojdmpdfm.dcmij,dfjdceevjx
rcle.ydjlkrzzr..jx 

"Rf,dyfjpdgeqdpedcephjzdxj.am.jdaeezdecxdArardAemzey?dGeqd.fmiy
geqzdrccjhmrpojdkrovdizeldyfjdfqlrpdiebfeqpx?"

Fm.dyjzldiezdHmzrqxdpjtjzdirmcjxdyedlrvjdljd.lmcj 

"Zryfjz dGeq'tjd.oezjxdetjzdfmldfrpx.eljcg "

"YfrydaeezdHmzrqx,"d.rmxdAemzey,dyzgmphdqp.qooj..iqccgdyedceev
lexj.y d"Umyfeqydxeqkydmydm.dpeydrccd.yqamxmyg dFjdfr.dfrxd_cr
lrqtrm.jdofrpoj_depojdezdyumoj ddYfrydxrzvdfrmzdoemcjxdzeqpxdyfj
xrhhjz,diezdmp.yrpoj dYed.rgdyfjdcjr.y,dmydur.dlm.cjrxmph "

"Yedyjccdgeqdyfjdyzqyf,dAemzey,"dMd.rmxd.ceucg,d"jtjpdpeudMdxep'y
wqmyjd.jj--ufe.jdfrmzdur.dmy?"

"LrxrljdZjprqcx'.deidoeqz.j dYfrydm.dufjzjd_crdlrqtrm.jdofrpoj_dorlj
mp dFjzdfrmz,dxrzvdezmhmprccg,dm.drcle.ydoelacjyjcgd.mctjzjx dMy
lmhfydnq.ydr.djr.mcgdfrtjdkjjpdrdhzjgdfrmz--rpxdyfjp,dkgdpe
oepojmtrkcjdjiiezydoeqcxdHmzrqxdfrtjdajz.qrxjxdfml.jcidmydorljdizel
yfjdfjrxdeidNrovdZjprqcx!dKqydmydm.drccdeidrdamjoj dRcurg.dyfjdiroy.
lq.ydkjdyum.yjxdyedimydyfjdyfjezg!dXmxdpeydHmzrqxdimpxdyfjdyzroj.
eidyuedajz.ep.,drdlrpdrpxdrduelrp,dmpdyfjd.fjx?dRpxdfeudxej.dyfry
imydmpdumyfdfm.dzjoep.yzqoymepdeidyfjdor.j?dMdumccdyjccdgeq--mydxej.
peydimydmp,drpxd.edujd.frccdfjrzdpedlezjdeidyfjl!dMdr.vdgeq,dm.dyfry
rdljyfexmorcdurgdeiduezvmph?dYfjdhzjrydHmzrqx!dYfjdhzjrydHmzrqxdm.
peyfmphdkqydrdyegdkrcceep--.ueccjpdumyfdmy.deupdmlaezyrpoj dKqydM,
FjzoqcjdAemzey,dufeldfjdxj.am.j.,dumccdkjdyfjdcmyycjdampdyfrydazmov.
yfjdkmhdkrcceep--_oelljdçr!_"dRpxdfjdlrxjdrpdjbazj..mtjdhj.yqzj 
Yfjp,dorclmphdxeup,dfjdzj.qljx:

"Umyfeqydxeqky,dufjpdLrxrljdZjprqcxdzjoetjz.,d.fjdumccd.ajrv dYfj
ae..mkmcmygdeidfjzd.epdkjmphdrooq.jxdeidyfjdlqzxjzdpjtjzdeooqzzjx
yedfjz dFeud.feqcxdmy,dufjpd.fjdkjcmjtjxdfmld.rijcgdryd.jrdepdkerzx
yfjd_Rpsezr_?d_Rf!dtemcàdqpjdijllj_,dFr.ymph.!dUfrydiezoj,dufry
.jci-oellrpx!d.fjdepcgdlrxjdepjd.cma dEpdfm.dqpjbajoyjxdzjyqzp:
'Mydxej.dpeydlryyjz--_peu_ 'dRpxdpedepjdpeymojx--pedepjdzjrcmsjx
yfjd.mhpmimorpojdeidyfe.jduezx. dUfrydrdyjzzmkcjdarzyd.fjdfr.dfrx
yedacrg,daeezduelrp dMlrhmpjdyfjd.feovdufjpd.fjdhej.dyedmxjpymig
yfjdkexgdrpx,dmp.yjrxdeidufryd.fjdjbajoy.,d.jj.dyfjdroyqrcdcmijcj..
iezldeidyfjdfq.krpxd.fjdfr.dkjcmjtjxdlmcj.drurgdkgdpeu dPeduepxjz
.fjdirmpyjx!dKqyd.mpojdyfjp,dxj.amyjdfjzdhzmjidrpxdfjzdxj.armz,
feudzj.ecqyjcgd.fjdfr.dacrgjxdfjzdarzy,drpxdfeudyfjdrphqm.fdei
mydlq.yduzmphdfjz d.fjdorppeyd.rgdrduezxdyed.jydq.depdyfjdyzrov
eidyfjdzjrcdlqzxjzjz. dIezdfjzd.ep'.d.rvj,dpedepjdlq.ydvpeudyfry
ArqcdZjprqcxdur.dHjezhj.dOeppjrq,dyfjdozmlmprc dImprcdrpxdle.y
kmyyjzdkceu,d.fjdfr.drxlmyyjxdaqkcmocgdyfrydLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdur.
fjzdfq.krpx'.dlm.yzj..--iezdrdfmpydeidkcrovlrmcdlmhfydkjdiryrcdye
fjzd.jozjy dFeudocjtjzcgd.fjdxjrcydumyfdyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj
ufjpdfjdr.vjxdfjzdmidyfjzjdur.drpgdlg.yjzgdmpdfjzdfq.krpx'.dar.y
cmij d'Peyfmphd.edzelrpymo,dMdrld.qzj,dL dcjdnqhj 'dMydur.dajzijoy,
yfjdmpxqchjpydyepj,dyfjd_.eqaçep_deid.rxdleovjzg ddRydepojdL dFrqyjy
ijcydfml.jcidieecm.fdrpxdljcexzrlrymo ddGj.,d.fjdm.drdhzjryduelrp!dMi
.fjdcetjxdrdozmlmprc,d.fjdcetjxdfmldzegrccg!"

Aemzeydce.ydfml.jcidmpdoepyjlacrymep 

"Epjdyfmphdlezj,dAemzey,dufrydrkeqydyfjdamjojdeidcjrxdamamph?"

"Geqdxedpeyd.jj?dYedxm.imhqzjdyfjdtmoyml'.dirojd.edyfrydmydueqcx
kjdqpzjoehpmsrkcj dMydur.dyfrydufmofdimz.yd.jydljdepdyfjdzmhfy
yzrov dRpxdyfrydmlkjomcjdeidrdHmzrqx,d.urzlmphdrccdetjzdmydyedceev
iezdlryofdjpx.!dXmxdMdpeydyjccdgeqdyfrydrdocqjdeidyuedijjydceph
ur.dwqmyjdr.dheexdr.drdocqjdeidyuedmpofj.?"

"Ujcc,dHmzrqxdumccd.mphd.lrccdpeu,"dMdek.jztjxdfr.ymcg,dyedcjrx
yfjdoeptjz.rymepdrurgdizeldlgdeupd.fezyoelmph. 

"R.dMd.rmxdkjiezj,dumccdfj?dMidfjdfr.drzzmtjxdrydyfjdzmhfydajz.ep
kgdyfjduzephdljyfex,dfjdumccdpeydajzlmydyfrydyeduezzgdfml "

"Kqyd.qzjcg--"dMdarq.jxdr.dMd.rudyfjdpjudyzjpxdeidyfmph. 

"Geqd.jj,dFr.ymph.,dujdlq.ydpeud.yrzydrhrmp dUfedvmccjx
L dZjprqcx?d.eljdepjdufedur.dpjrzdyfjdTmccrdnq.ydkjiezjdyujctj
e'oceovdyfrydpmhfy,d.eljdepjdufedueqcxdkjpjimydkgdfm.dxjryf--yfj
xj.ozmaymepdimy.dNrovdZjprqcxdepcgdyeedujcc dYfjdozmljdpjjxdpey
frtjdkjjpdazjljxmyryjx dRpxdyfjpdyfjdxrhhjz!"

Md.yrzyjx,dMdfrxdpeydzjrcmsjxdyfrydaempy 

"Eidoeqz.j,"dMd.rmx d"Yfjd.joepxdxrhhjzdujdieqpxdmpdyfjdyzrladur.
Lz. dZjprqcx'. dYfjzjd_ujzj_dyue,dyfjp "

"Ojzyrmpcg,drpx,d.mpojdyfjgdujzjdxqacmoryj.,dmyd.yrpx.dyedzjr.ep
yfrydNrovdZjprqcxdur.dyfjdeupjz dKqydyfrydueqcxdpeydyzeqkcjdlj
.edlqof dMpdiroydMdfrtjdrdcmyycjdmxjrdr.dyedyfry dPe,dyfjduez.y
mpxmoyljpydrhrmp.ydfmldm.drhrmpda.gofecehmorc--fjzjxmyg,d_lepdrlm_,
fjzjxmyg!dCmvjdiryfjz,dcmvjd.ep--NrovdZjprqcx,dufjpdrccdm.d.rmxdez
xepj,dm.dyfjd.epdeidHjezhj.dOeppjrq "

Fm.dyepjdur.dhzrtjdrpxdjrzpj.y,drpxdMdur.dmlazj..jxdmpd.amyj
eidlg.jci 

"Ufrydm.dgeqzdcmyycjdmxjrdyfrydgeqdljpymepjxdnq.ydpeu?"dMdr.vjx 

Iezdrp.ujz,dAemzeydoep.qcyjxdfm.dyqzpma-irojxduryof,drpxdyfjpdr.vjx:

"Ufrydymljdm.dyfjdriyjzpeepdkerydizeldOrcrm.?"

"Rkeqydimtj,dMdkjcmjtj "

"Yfrydumccdxedtjzgdujcc dUjd.frccdnq.ydfrtjdymlj "

"GeqdrzjdhemphdyedJphcrpx?"

"Gj.,dlgdizmjpx "

"Ufg?"

"Yedimpxdrdae..mkcj--umypj.. "

"Ufe?"

Umyfdrdzryfjzdajoqcmrzd.lmcjdqaepdfm.diroj,dAemzeydzjacmjx:

"Lm..dKjccrdXqtjjp "

"Kqydfeudumccdgeqdimpxdfjz--ufrydxedgeqdvpeudrkeqydfjz?"

"Mdvpeudpeyfmphdrkeqydfjz--kqydMdorpdhqj..drdheexdxjrc dUjdlrgdyrvj
mydiezdhzrpyjxdyfrydfjzdprljd_m._dKjccrdXqtjjp,drpxd.mpojdyfry
prljdur.dirmpycgdirlmcmrzdyedL dd.yepez,dyfeqhfdjtmxjpycgdpeydmp
oeppjoymepdumyfdyfjdZjprqcxdirlmcg,dmydm.dazekrkcjdyfryd.fjdm.dep
yfjd.yrhj ddNrovdZjprqcxdur.drdgeqphdlrpdumyfdacjpygdeidlepjg,drpx
yujpygdgjrz.deidrhj dYfjd.yrhjdm.d.qzjdyedfrtjdkjjpdyfjdfeljdeidfm.
imz.ydcetj dMydyrccmj.,dyee,dumyfdL ddZjprqcx'.dryyjlaydyedacroryj
fjzdumyfdrdofjwqj dMdyfmpvdMd.frccdimpxdfjzdrccdzmhfy--j.ajomrccg
umyfdyfjdfjcadeid_yfm._ "

RpxdfjdkzeqhfydeqydyfjdafeyehzrafdMdfrxd.jjpdfmldyrvjdizeldNrov
Zjprqcx'.dxzrujz d"UmyfdcetjdizeldKjccr,"dur.d.ozrucjxdroze..dyfj
oezpjz,dkqydmydur.dpeydyfrydufmofdfjcxdlgdjgj.dir.ompryjx dYfj
cmvjpj..dur.dpeydimz.ydzryj--kqydiezdrccdyfrydmydur.dqplm.yrvrkcj
yedlj dMdijcydrdoecxd.mpvmph,dr.dyfeqhfd.eljdqpqyyjzrkcjdorcrlmyg
frxdkjirccjpdlj 

Mydur.dyfjdirojdeidOmpxjzjccr 




22

MdImpxdCetj


IezdrdleljpydezdyuedMd.rydr.dyfeqhfdizesjp,dyfjdafeyehzrafd.ymccdmp
lgdfrpx dYfjp,d.qllepmphdrccdlgdoeqzrhjdyedraajrzdqpletjx,dMdfrpxjx
mydkrov dRydyfjd.rljdymlj,dMd.yecjdrdwqmovdhcrpojdrydAemzey dFrxdfj
peymojxdrpgyfmph?dKqydyedlgdzjcmjidfjdxmxdpeyd.jjldyedkjdek.jztmph
lj dRpgyfmphdqpq.qrcdmpdlgdlrppjzdfrxdojzyrmpcgdj.orajxdfml 


Fjdze.jdkzm.vcgdyedfm.dijjy 

"Ujdfrtjdpedymljdyedce.j dUjdlq.ydlrvjdeqzdxjarzyqzjdumyfdrcc
xj.aryof dRccdm.dujcc--yfjd.jrdmydumccdkjdorcl!"

Mpdyfjdkq.ycjdeidxjarzyqzj,dMdfrxdpedymljdiezdyfmpvmph,dkqydepoj
epdkerzxdyfjdkery,d.joqzjdizeldAemzey'.dek.jztrymepd(fj,dr.dq.qrc,
ur.d"azroym.mphdyfjdljyfexdle.ydjbojccjpydeidCrtjzhqmjz")dMdaqccjx
lg.jcidyehjyfjz,drpxdryyrovjxdyfjdiroy.dxm.ar..mepryjcg dFeudlqof
xmxdAemzeydvpeu?dUr.dfjdrurzjdyfrydlgdrowqrmpyrpojdeidyfjdyzrmpdrpx
KjccrdXqtjjpdujzjdepjdrpxdyfjd.rlj?dUfgdfrxdfjdhepjdyedyfjdFôyjc
xqdAfrzj?dEpdlgdkjfrcidr.dMdfrxdkjcmjtjx?dEzdfrxdMdepcgdiryqeq.cg
yfeqhfyd.e,drpxdur.dyfm.dtm.mydqpxjzyrvjpdumyfdrdxjjajzdrpxdlezj
.mpm.yjzdaqzae.j?

Kqydmpdrpgdor.j,dufgdur.dfjdkjpydepdimpxmphdyfm.dhmzc?ddXmxdfj
.q.ajoydfjzdeidfrtmphd.jjpdNrovdZjprqcxdoellmydyfjdozmlj?dEzdxmxdfj
.q.ajoy--kqydyfrydur.dmlae..mkcj!ddYfjdhmzcdfrxdpedhzqxhjdrhrmp.ydyfj
jcxjzdZjprqcx,dpedae..mkcjdleymtjdiezdum.fmphdfm.dxjryf dUfrydfrx
kzeqhfydfjzdkrovdyedyfjd.ojpjdeidyfjdlqzxjz?dMdujpydetjzdyfjdiroy.
orzjiqccg d.fjdlq.ydfrtjdcjiydyfjdyzrmpdrydOrcrm.dufjzjdMdarzyjxdizel
fjzdyfrydxrg dPeduepxjzdMdfrxdkjjpdqprkcjdyedimpxdfjzdepdyfjdkery dMi
.fjdfrxdxmpjxdmpdOrcrm.,drpxdyfjpdyrvjpdrdyzrmpdeqydyedLjzcmptmccj,
.fjdueqcxdfrtjdrzzmtjxdrydyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètjdnq.ydrkeqydyfjdymlj
yfrydIzrpçem.jd.rmx dUfrydfrxd.fjdxepjdufjpd.fjdcjiydyfjdfeq.j
nq.ydriyjzdyjp?dAzj.qlrkcgdjmyfjzdhepjdyedrpdfeyjc,dezdzjyqzpjxdye
Orcrm. dRpxdyfjp?dYfjdozmljdfrxdkjjpdoellmyyjxdepdYqj.xrgdpmhfy dEp
Yfqz.xrgdlezpmph,d.fjdur.depojdlezjdmpdLjzcmptmccj dFrxd.fjdjtjzdcjiy
Izrpojdrydrcc?dMdxeqkyjxdmydtjzgdlqof dUfrydvjaydfjzdyfjzj--yfjdfeaj
eid.jjmphdNrovdZjprqcx?dMdfrxdyecxdfjzd(r.drydyfjdymljdujdkjcmjtjx)
yfrydfjdur.depdyfjdfmhfd.jr.d_jpdzeqyj_dyedKqjpe.dRgzj. dAe..mkcgd.fj
ur.drurzjdyfrydyfjd_Rpsezr_dfrxdpeyd.rmcjx dKqydyedvpeudyfryd.fjdlq.y
frtjd.jjpdNrov dUr.dyfrydufrydAemzeydur.driyjz?dFrxdNrovdZjprqcx,
zjyqzpmphdyed.jjdLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc,doeljdirojdyedirojdmp.yjrxdumyf
KjccrdXqtjjp,dyfjdhmzcdfjdfrxdfjrzycj..cgdyfzeupdetjz?

Mdkjhrpdyed.jjdxrgcmhfy dMidyfrydujzjdmpxjjxdyfjdor.j,dmydlmhfy
iqzpm.fdNrovdumyfdyfjdrcmkmdfjdpjjxjx dGjydqpxjzdyfe.jdomzoql.yrpoj.
fm.d.mcjpojd.jjljxdxmiimoqcydyedjbacrmp ddUfgdoeqcxdfjdpeydfrtj
.aevjpdeqydkecxcg?dXmxdfjdijrzdiezdyfm.diezljzdjpyrphcjljpydeidfm.dye
oeljdyedyfjdjrz.deidLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc?dMd.feevdlgdfjrx,dxm..rym.imjx 
Yfjdyfmphdfrxdkjjpdfrzlcj..djpeqhf,drdieecm.fdkegdrpxdhmzcdriirmz,
rpxdMdzjicjoyjxdogpmorccgdyfrydyfjd.epdeidrdlmccmeprmzjdur.dpey
cmvjcgdyedkjdyfzeupdetjzdkgdrdajppmcj..dIzjpofdhmzc,dufedlezjetjz
cetjxdfmldxjteyjxcg,dumyfeqydrdlqofdhzrtjzdorq.j 

RcyehjyfjzdMdieqpxdyfjdriirmzdaqsscmphdrpxdqp.rym.iroyezg 
Mdxm.cmvjxdmpyjp.jcgdkjmphdr..eomryjxdumyfdAemzeydmpdfqpymphdyfm.
hmzcdxeup,dkqydMdoeqcxdpeyd.jjdrpgdurgdeidrtemxmphdmy,dumyfeqy
zjtjrcmphdjtjzgyfmphdyedfml,drpxdyfm.,diezd.eljdzjr.ep,dMdur.dceryf
yedxe 

Aemzeydzjraajrzjxdkzm.vdrpxd.lmcmphdrydXetjz,drpxdeqzdneqzpjgdye
Cepxepdur.dqpjtjpyiqc dMydur.dar.ydpmpjde'oceovdufjpdujdrzzmtjx,
rpxdMd.qaae.jxdyfrydujd.feqcxdzjyqzpd.yzrmhfydrurgdyedeqzdzeel.
rpxdxedpeyfmphdymccdyfjdlezpmph dKqydAemzeydfrxdeyfjzdacrp. 

"Ujdlq.ydce.jdpedymlj,d_lepdrlm_ dYfjdpju.deidyfjdrzzj.ydumccdpey
kjdmpdyfjdJphcm.fdarajz.dqpymcdyfjdxrgdriyjzdyelezzeu,dkqyd.ymcc
ujdlq.ydce.jdpedymlj "

Mdxmxdpeydwqmyjdiecceudfm.dzjr.epmph,dkqydMdljzjcgdr.vjxdfeudfj
azeae.jxdyedimpxdyfjdhmzc 

"GeqdzjljlkjzdNe.jafdRrzep.,dyfjdyfjryzmorcdrhjpy?ddPe?dMdr..m.yjx
fmldmpdrdcmyycjdlryyjzdeidrdNrarpj.jduzj.ycjz dRdazjyygdcmyycj
azekcjl,dMdlq.ydzjoeqpydmydyedgeqdepjdxrg dFj,dumyfeqydxeqky,dumcc
kjdrkcjdyedaqydq.dmpdyfjdurgdeidimpxmphdeqydufrydujdurpydyedvpeu "

Mydyeevdq.d.eljdymljdyedzqpdLz dRrzep.dyedjrzyf,drpxdmydur.driyjz
lmxpmhfydufjpdujdimprccgdlrprhjxdmy dFjdhzjjyjxdAemzeydumyfdjtjzg
jtmxjpojdeidurzlyf,drpxdazeij..jxdfml.jcidzjrxgdyedkjdeid.jztmoj
yedq.dmpdrpgdurg 

"Yfjzj'.dpeydlqofdrkeqydyfjdazeij..mepdMdxep'ydvpeu,"dfjd.rmx,
kjrlmphdhjpmrccg 

"_Jfdkmjp_,dL dRrzep.,dMdxj.mzjdyedimpxdrdgeqphdhmzcdorccjxdKjccr
Xqtjjp "

"KjccrdXqtjjp dMdvpeudyfjdprlj,dkqydiezdyfjdleljpydMdorp'ydacroj
my dUfry'.dfjzdcmpj?"

"YfrydMdxedpeydvpeu--kqydfjzjdm.dfjzdafeyehzraf "

Lz dRrzep.d.yqxmjxdmydiezdrdleljpy,dyfjpdfm.dirojdcmhfyjx 

"Heydmy!"dFjd.craajxdfm.dyfmhf d"YfjdXqcomkjccrdVmx.,dkgdyfjdCezx!"

"YfjdXqcomkjccrdVmx.?"

"Yfry'.dmy dYfjg'zjd.m.yjz. dRozekry.,dxrpojz.drpxd.mphjz. dHmtj
wqmyjdrdheexdcmyycjdyqzp dYfjg'zjdmpdyfjdazetmpoj.d.eljufjzj,
Mdkjcmjtj--midyfjg'zjdpeydzj.ymph ddYfjg'tjdkjjpdepdmpdArzm.diez
yfjdcr.ydyuedezdyfzjjdujjv. "

"Orpdgeqdimpxdeqydiezdljdjbroycgdufjzjdyfjgdrzj?"

"Jr.gdr.drdkmzx dGeqdhedfelj,drpxdM'ccd.jpxdgeqdzeqpxdyfjdxeajdmp
yfjdlezpmph "

Umyfdyfm.dazelm.jdujdyeevdcjrtjdeidfml dFjdur.dr.dheexdr.dfm.
uezx dRkeqydjcjtjpde'oceovdyfjdiecceumphdxrg,drd.ozmkkcjxdpeyj
zjrofjxdq. 

"YfjdXqcomkjccrd.m.yjz.drzjdepdrydyfjdArcrojdmpdOetjpyzg ddHeexdcqov
yedgeq "

Umyfeqydlezjdrxe,dujd.yrzyjxdiezdOetjpyzg dAemzeydlrxjdpedmpwqmzmj.
rydyfjdyfjryzj,dkqydoepyjpyjxdfml.jcidumyfdkeevmphd.yrcc.diezdyfj
trzmjygdajziezlrpojdyfrydjtjpmph 

Yfjd.feudur.dujrzm.eljdkjgepxduezx.--ezdajzfra.dmydur.depcgdlg
leexdyfrydlrxjdmyd.jjld.e dNrarpj.jdirlmcmj.dkrcrpojxdyfjl.jctj.
azjorzmeq.cg,dueqcx-kjdir.fmeprkcjdljp,dmpdhzjjpm.fdjtjpmphdxzj..
rpxdjbwqm.myjcgd.cmovjxdfrmz,dzjjcjxdeiid.eomjygdaryyjzdrpxdxrpojx
lrztjcceq.cg,d.yeqydazmlrdxeppr.d.rphdrydyfjdyeadeidyfjdfqlrp
zjhm.yjz,drdoelmodoeljxmrpdjpxjrteqzjxdyedkjdLz dHjezhjdZekjgdrpx
irmcjxd.mhprccg 

Rydcr.ydyfjdpqlkjzdujpydqadufmofdrppeqpojxdyfjdXqcomkjccrdVmx. dLg
fjrzydkjryd.movjpmphcg dYfjzjd.fjdur.--yfjzjdyfjgdkeyfdujzj,dyfjdarmz
eidyfjl,depjdicrbjpdfrmzjx,depjdxrzv,dlryofmphdr.dyed.msj,dumyfd.fezy
icqiigd.vmzy.drpxdmlljp.jdkq.yjzdkzeupdkeu. dYfjgdceevjxdrdarmzdei
jbyzjljcgdamwqrpydofmcxzjp dYfjgdkjhrpdyed.mph ddYfjmzdtemoj.dujzj
izj.fdrpxdyzqj,dzryfjzdyfmpdrpxdlq.mo-frccg,dkqydryyzroymtj 

Mydur.dwqmyjdrdazjyygdcmyycjdyqzp dYfjgdxrpojxdpjrycg,drpxdxmx
.eljdocjtjzdcmyycjdrozekrymodijry. dYfjduezx.deidyfjmzd.eph.dujzj
ozm.adrpxdoryofg dUfjpdyfjdoqzyrmpdijcc,dyfjzjdur.drdiqccdljjxdei
raacrq.j dJtmxjpycgdyfjdXqcomkjccrdVmx.dujzjdrd.qooj.. 

.qxxjpcgdMdijcydyfrydMdoeqcxdzjlrmpdpedcephjz dMdlq.ydhjydeqydmpye
yfjdrmz dMd.qhhj.yjxdcjrtmphdyedAemzey 

"Hedkgdrccdljrp.,d_lepdrlm_ dMdrlq.jdlg.jci,drpxdumccd.yrgdyedyfj
jpx dMdumccdzjnempdgeqdcryjz "

Mydur.depcgdrdijud.yja.dizeldyfjdyfjryzjdyedyfjdfeyjc dMdujpydqa
yedyfjd.myymph-zeel,dezxjzjxdrdufm.vgdrpxd.exr,drpxd.rydxzmpvmph
my,d.yrzmphdljxmyrymtjcgdmpyedyfjdjlaygdhzryj dMdfjrzxdyfjdxeez
eajp,drpxdyqzpjxdlgdfjrx,dyfmpvmphdmydur.dAemzey dYfjpdMdnqlajx
yedlgdijjy dMydur.dOmpxjzjccrdufed.yeexdmpdyfjdxeezurg d.fjd.aevj
frcymphcg,dfjzdkzjryfdoelmphdmpdcmyycjdhr.a. 

"Md.rudgeqdmpdizepy dGeqdrpxdgeqzdizmjpx dUfjpdgeqdheydqadyedhe,
Mdur.durmymphdeqy.mxjdrpxdiecceujxdgeq ddUfgdrzjdgeqdfjzj--mp
Oetjpyzg?dUfrydujzjdgeqdxemphdyfjzjdye-pmhfy?dM.dyfjdlrpdufedur.
umyfdgeqdyfj--yfjdxjyjoymtj?"

.fjd.yeexdyfjzj,dyfjdocervd.fjdfrxduzraajxdzeqpxdfjzd.yrhjdxzj..
.cmaamphdizeldfjzd.feqcxjz. dMd.rudyfjdufmyjpj..deidfjzdofjjv.dqpxjz
yfjdzeqhj,drpxdfjrzxdyfjdyjzzezdmpdfjzdtemoj dRpxdmpdyfrydleljpy
Mdqpxjz.yeexdjtjzgyfmph--qpxjz.yeexdufgdAemzeydur.d.jjvmphdfjz,
rpxdufryd.fjdijrzjx,drpxdqpxjz.yeexdrydcr.ydlgdeupdfjrzy d d d 

"Gj.,"dMd.rmxdhjpycg 

"M.dfjdceevmphdiez--lj?"d.fjdfrcidufm.ajzjx 

Yfjp,dr.dMdxmxdpeydrp.ujzdiezdrdleljpy,d.fjd.cmaajxdxeupdkgdyfj
kmhdofrmz,drpxdkqz.ydmpyedtmecjpy,dkmyyjzdujjamph 

Mdvpjcydxeupdkgdfjz,dfecxmphdfjzdmpdlgdrzl.,drpxd.leeyfmphdyfjdfrmz
krovdizeldfjzdiroj 

"Xep'ydozg,dofmcx,dxep'ydozg,diezdHex'.d.rvj dGeq'zjd.rijdfjzj dM'cc
yrvjdorzjdeidgeq dXep'ydozg,dxrzcmph ddXep'ydozg dMdvpeu--Mdvpeu
jtjzgyfmph "

"Ef,dkqydgeqdxep'y!"

"MdyfmpvdMdxe "dRpxdriyjzdrdleljpy,dr.dfjzd.ek.dhzjudwqmjyjz,
Mdr.vjx:d"Mydur.dgeqdufedyeevdyfjdxrhhjz,dur.p'ydmy?"

"Gj. "

"Yfrydur.dufgdgeqdurpyjxdljdyed.feudgeqdzeqpx?ddRpxdufgdgeqdazjyjpxjx
yedirmpy?"

Rhrmpd.fjdpexxjx dMydur.drd.yzrphjdyfeqhfydyedoeljdyedljdrydyfj
leljpy,dkqydmyd.feydmpyedlgdlmpxdyfrydMdur.dhcrxdfjzdleymtjdur.dufry
mydfrxdkjjp--zryfjzdyfrpdyfjdmxcjdrpxdlezkmxdoqzme.mygdMdfrxdrooq.jx
fjzdeidrydyfjdymlj dFeudhrccrpycgd.fjdfrxdacrgjxdfjzdarzydyfrydxrg,
mpurzxcgdzrovjxdumyfdijrzdrpxdyzjamxrymepdr.d.fjdlq.ydfrtjdkjjp dAeez
cmyycjd.eqc,dkjrzmphdyfjdkqzxjpdeidrdleljpy'.dmlajyqeq.droymep 

"Ufgdxmxdgeqdyrvjdyfjdxrhhjz?"dMdr.vjxdazj.jpycg 

.fjdzjacmjxdr.d.mlacgdr.drdofmcx:

"Mdur.drizrmxdyfjzjdlmhfydkjdimphjz-lrzv.depdmy "

"Kqydxmxp'ydgeqdzjljlkjzdyfrydgeqdfrxduezpdhcetj.?"

.fjd.feevdfjzdfjrxdr.dyfeqhfdkjumcxjzjx,drpxdyfjpd.rmxd.ceucg:

"Rzjdgeqdhemphdyedhmtjdljdqadye--yedyfjdAecmoj?"

"HeexdHex!dpe "

Fjzdjgj.d.eqhfydlmpjdcephdrpxdjrzpj.ycg,drpxdyfjpd.fjdr.vjxdmpdr
cmyycjdwqmjydtemojdyfryd.eqpxjxdrizrmxdeidmy.jci:

"Ufgdpey?"

Myd.jjljxdrd.yzrphjdacrojdrpxdrd.yzrphjdymljdiezdrdxjocrzrymepdei
cetj--rpxdHexdvpeu.,dmpdrccdlgdmlrhmpmph,dMdfrxdpjtjzdamoyqzjxdcetj
oelmphdyedljdmpd.qofdrdhqm.j dKqydMdrp.ujzjxd.mlacgdrpxdpryqzrccg
jpeqhf:

"Kjorq.jdMdcetjdgeq,dOmpxjzjccr "

.fjdkjpydfjzdfjrxdxeup,dr.dyfeqhfdr.frljx,drpxdlqyyjzjxdmpdr
kzevjpdtemoj:

"Geqdorp'y--geqdorp'y--peydmidgeqdvpju--"dRpxdyfjp,dr.dyfeqhf
zrccgmphdfjz.jci,d.fjdirojxdljd.wqrzjcg,drpxdr.vjx:

"Ufrydxedgeqdvpeu,dyfjp?"

"Mdvpeudyfrydgeqdorljdyed.jjdLz dZjprqcxdyfrydpmhfy ddFjdeiijzjxdgeq
rdofjwqjdrpxdgeqdyezjdmydqadmpxmhprpycg ddYfjpdgeqdcjiydyfjdfeq.j--"
Mdarq.jx 

"Hedep--ufrydpjby?"

"Mdxep'ydvpeudufjyfjzdgeqdvpjudyfrydNrovdZjprqcxdueqcxdkjdoelmphdyfry
pmhfy,dezdufjyfjzdgeqdnq.ydurmyjxdrkeqydepdyfjdofrpojdeid.jjmphdfml,
kqydgeqdxmxdurmydrkeqy dAjzfra.dgeqdujzjdnq.ydlm.jzrkcj,drpxdurcvjx
rmlcj..cg--kqydrydrpgdzryjdnq.ydkjiezjdyujctjdgeqdujzjd.ymccdpjrz
yfjzj,drpxdgeqd.rudrdlrpdepdyfjdhecidcmpv.--"

RhrmpdMdarq.jx dMdfrxdcjraydyedyfjdyzqyfdmpdrdicr.fdr.d.fj
jpyjzjxdyfjdzeel,dkqydpeudyfjdamoyqzjdze.jdkjiezjdljdjtjpdlezj
oeptmpomphcg dMd.rudtmtmxcgdyfjdajoqcmrzdaryyjzpdeidyfjdetjzoery
epdyfjdxjrxdkexgdeidLz ddZjprqcx,drpxdMdzjljlkjzjxdyfjdrlrsmph
cmvjpj..dyfrydfrxd.yrzycjxdljdmpyedkjcmjtmphdiezdepjdmp.yrpydyfry
yfjdxjrxdlrpdfrxdzm.jpdizeldyfjdxjrxdufjpdfm.d.epdkqz.ydmpyedeqz
oepocrtjdmpdyfjd_.rcep_ 

"Hedep,"dzjajryjxdyfjdhmzcd.yjrxmcg 

"Mdirpogdfm.dkrovdur.dyedgeq--kqydgeqdzjoehpmsjxdfml,dezdyfeqhfydgeq
zjoehpmsjxdfml dYfjdhrmydrpxdyfjdorzzmrhjdujzjdirlmcmrzdyedgeq,drpx
yfjdaryyjzpdeidfm.detjzoery "dMdarq.jx d"Geqdyecxdljdmpdyfjdyzrmp
epdyfjdurgdizeldArzm.dyfrydgeqdfrxdMyrcmrpdkceexdmpdgeqzdtjmp.,
rpxdyfrydgeqdfrxdpjrzcgdheydmpyedyzeqkcjdepojdumyfdmy ddGeqdq.jx
rdyfzjrydmpdepjdeidgeqzdcjyyjz.dyedNrovdZjprqcx dUfjpdgeqd.rudfml
yfjzj,dgeqzdrphjzdrpxdnjrceq.gdxzetjdgeqdlrx--rpxdgeqd.yzqov!dM
xep'ydkjcmjtjdiezdrdlmpqyjdyfrydgeqdljrpydyedvmccdfml dKqydgeqdxmx
vmccdfml,dOmpxjzjccr "

.fjdfrxdicqphdqadfjzdfrpx.dyedoetjzdfjzdiroj,drpxdmpdrdofevjxdtemoj
.fjd.rmx:

"Geq'zjdzmhfyd d d dgeq'zjdzmhfyd d d dMdorpd.jjdmydrccdr.dgeq
yjccdmy "dYfjpd.fjdyqzpjxdepdljdrcle.yd.rtrhjcg dd"Rpxdgeqdcetj
lj?dVpeumphdufrydgeqdxe,dfeudorpdgeqdcetjdlj?"

"Mdxep'ydvpeu,"dMd.rmxdrdcmyycjdujrzmcg d"Mdyfmpvdcetjdm.dcmvj
yfry--rdyfmphdepjdorppeydfjca dMdfrtjdyzmjx,dMdvpeu--jtjzd.mpoj
yfjdimz.ydxrgdMdljydgeq dRpxdcetjdfr.dkjjpdyeed.yzephdiezdlj "

Rpxdyfjpd.qxxjpcg,dufjpdMdcjr.ydjbajoyjxdmy,d.fjdkzevjdxeupdrhrmp,
or.ymphdfjz.jcidxeupdepdyfjdiceezdrpxd.ekkmphdumcxcg 

"Ef,dMdorp'y!"d.fjdozmjx d"Mdxep'ydvpeudufrydyedxe dMdxep'ydvpeu
ufmofdurgdyedyqzp dEf,damygdlj,damygdlj,d.eljdepj,drpxdyjccdljdufry
yedxe!"

RhrmpdMdvpjcydkgdfjz,d.eeyfmphdfjzdr.dkj.ydMdoeqcx 

"Xep'ydkjdrizrmxdeidlj,dKjccr dIezdHex'.d.rvjdxep'ydkjdrizrmx
eidlj dMdcetjdgeq,dyfry'.dyzqj--kqydMdxep'ydurpydrpgyfmphdmp
zjyqzp dEpcgdcjydljdfjcadgeq dCetjdfmld.ymccdmidgeqdfrtjdye,dkqy
cjydljdfjcadgeqdr.dfjdorp'y "

Mydur.dr.dyfeqhfd.fjdfrxdkjjpdyqzpjxdyed.yepjdkgdlgduezx. d.fj
zrm.jxdfjzdfjrxdizeldfjzdfrpx.drpxd.yrzjxdrydlj 

"Geqdyfmpvdyfry?"d.fjdufm.ajzjx d"GeqdyfmpvdyfrydMdcetjdNrov
Zjprqcx?"

Yfjp,dfrcidcrqhfmph,dfrcidozgmph,d.fjdicqphdfjzdrzl.dar..mepryjcg
zeqpxdlgdpjov,drpxdazj..jxdfjzd.ujjydujydirojdyedlmpj 

"Peydr.dMdcetjdgeq,"d.fjdufm.ajzjx d"Pjtjzdr.dMdcetjdgeq!"

Fjzdcma.dkzq.fjxdlgdofjjv,drpxdyfjp,d.jjvmphdlgdleqyf,dvm..jxdlj
rhrmpdrpxdrhrmpdumyfdrd.ujjypj..drpxdimzjdkjgepxdkjcmji dYfjdumcxpj..
eidmy--rpxdyfjduepxjz,dMd.frccdpeydiezhjy--pe,dpeydr.dcephdr.dMdcmtj!

Mydur.drd.eqpxdmpdyfjdxeezurgdyfrydlrxjdq.dceevdqa ddAemzeydur.
.yrpxmphdyfjzjdceevmphdrydq. 

Mdxmxdpeydfj.myryj dUmyfdrdkeqpxdMdzjrofjxdfmldrpxdampmepjxdfm.
rzl.dyedfm.d.mxj. 

"Wqmov,"dMd.rmxdyedyfjdhmzc d"Hjydeqydeidfjzj dR.dir.ydr.dgeq
orp dM'ccdfecxdfml "

Umyfdepjdceevdrydlj,d.fjdicjxdeqydeidyfjdzeeldar.ydq. ddMdfjcx
Aemzeydmpdrdhzmadeidmzep 

"_Lepdrlm_,"dek.jztjxdyfjdcryyjzdlmcxcg,d"geqdxedyfm.d.ezydeidyfmph
tjzgdujcc dYfjd.yzephdlrpdfecx.dljdmpdfm.dhzr.adrpxdMdrldfjcacj..dr.
rdofmcx dKqydrccdyfm.dm.dqpoeliezyrkcjdrpxd.cmhfycgdzmxmoqceq. dCjy
q.d.mydxeupdrpxdkjdorcl "

"Geqduep'ydaqz.qjdfjz?"

"_LepdXmjq!_dpe dRldMdHmzrqx?dZjcjr.jdlj,dlgdizmjpx "

Vjjamphdrd.q.amomeq.djgjdqaepdfml,diezdMdarmxdAemzeydyfjdoelacmljpy
eidvpeumphdyfrydMdur.dpedlryofdiezdfmldmpdr.yqyjpj..,dMdzjcrbjxdlg
hzma,drpxdfjd.rpvdmpyedrpdrzl-ofrmz,dijjcmphdfm.drzl.dyjpxjzcg 

"Mydm.dyfrydgeqdfrtjdyfjd.yzjphyfdeidrdkqccdufjpdgeqdrzjdzeq.jx,
Fr.ymph.!d_Jfdkmjp_,drpxdxedgeqdyfmpvdgeqdfrtjdkjfrtjxdujccdyedgeqz
ecxdizmjpx?dMd.feudgeqdyfjdhmzc'.dafeyehzrafdrpxdgeqdzjoehpmsjdmy,
kqydgeqdpjtjzd.rgdrduezx "

"Yfjzjdur.dpedpjjxdmidgeqdvpjudyfrydMdzjoehpmsjxdmy,"dMd.rmxdzryfjz
kmyyjzcg d.edAemzeydfrxdvpeupdrccdrceph!dMdfrxdpeydxjojmtjxdfml
iezdrpdmp.yrpy 

"Yr-yr!dGeqdxmxdpeydvpeudyfrydMdvpjudyfry dRpxdyepmhfydgeqdfjca
yfjdhmzcdyedj.orajdufjpdujdfrtjdieqpxdfjzdumyfd.edlqofdyzeqkcj!d_Jf
kmjp!_dmydoelj.dyedyfm.--rzjdgeqdhemphdyeduezvdumyfdljdezdrhrmp.y
lj,dFr.ymph.?"

IezdrdleljpydezdyuedMdxmxdpeydrp.ujz dYedkzjrvdumyfdlgdecxdizmjpx
hrtjdljdhzjrydarmp dGjydMdlq.ydxjimpmyjcgdzrphjdlg.jcidrhrmp.y
fml dUeqcxdfjdjtjzdiezhmtjdlj,dMduepxjzjx?dFjdfrxdkjjpd.yzrphjcg
orcld.edirz,dkqydMdvpjudfmldyedae..j..dlrztjcceq.d.jci-oellrpx 

"Aemzey,"dMd.rmx,d"M'ld.ezzg dMdrxlmydM'tjdkjfrtjxdkrxcgdyedgeq
etjzdyfm. dKqyd.eljymlj.depjdfr.dpedofemoj dRpxdmpdiqyqzjdMdlq.y
yrvjdlgdeupdcmpj "

Aemzeydpexxjxdfm.dfjrxd.jtjzrcdymlj. 

"Mdqpxjz.yrpx,"dfjd.rmx dYfjdleovmphdcmhfydfrxdwqmyjdxmjxdeqydei
fm.djgj.,drpxdfjd.aevjdumyfdrd.mpojzmygdrpxdvmpxpj..dyfryd.qzazm.jx
lj d"Mydm.dyfry,dlgdizmjpx,dm.dmydpey?dMydm.dcetjdyfrydfr.doelj--pey
r.dgeqdmlrhmpjxdmy,drccdoeovdrdfeeadumyfdimpjdijryfjz.,dkqyd.rxcg,
umyfdkcjjxmphdijjy dUjcc,dujcc--Mdurzpjxdgeq dUfjpdMdzjrcmsjxdyfry
yfm.dhmzcdlq.ydfrtjdyrvjpdyfjdxrhhjz,dMdurzpjxdgeq ddAjzfra.dgeq
zjljlkjz dKqydrczjrxgdmydur.dyeedcryj dKqy,dyjccdlj,dfeudlqofdxe
geqdvpeu?"

Mdljydfm.djgj.d.wqrzjcg 

"Peyfmphdyfrydgeqdoeqcxdyjccdljdueqcxdkjdrpgd.qzazm.jdyedlj,
Aemzey dQpxjz.yrpxdyfry dKqydmpdor.jdgeqdyfmpvdeidzj.qlmph
geqzd.jrzofdiezdLm..dXqtjjp,dMd.feqcxdcmvjdgeqdyedvpeudepjdyfmph
ocjrzcg dMidgeqdfrtjdrpgdmxjrdyfryd.fjdur.doepojzpjxdmpdyfjdozmlj,
ezdur.dyfjdlg.yjzmeq.dcrxgdufedorccjxdqaepdLz dZjprqcxdyfrydpmhfy,
geqdrzjduzeph dMdyzrtjccjxdfeljdizeldIzrpojdumyfdfjzdyfrydxrg,
rpxdarzyjxdizeldfjzdrydTmoyezmrdyfrydjtjpmphd.edyfrydmydm.docjrzcg
mlae..mkcjdiezdfjzdyedfrtjdkjjpdmpdLjzcmptmccj "

"Rf!"dAemzeydceevjxdrydljdyfeqhfyiqccg d"Rpxdgeqdueqcxd.ujrzdye
yfrydmpdrdoeqzydeidcru?"

"Le.ydojzyrmpcgdMdueqcx "

Aemzeydze.jdrpxdkeujx 

"_Lepdrlm!dTmtjdc'rleqz!_dMydorpdajziezldlmzrocj. dMydm.dxjomxjxcg
mphjpmeq.dufrydgeqdfrtjdyfeqhfydeidyfjzj ddMydxjijry.djtjpdFjzoqcj
Aemzey!"




23

Xmiimoqcymj.dRfjrx


Riyjzdrdleljpydeid.yzj..,d.qofdr.dMdfrtjdnq.ydxj.ozmkjx,dzjroymepdm.
keqpxdyed.jydmp dMdzjymzjxdyedzj.ydyfrydpmhfydepdrdpeyjdeidyzmqlaf,
kqydMdruevjdyedzjrcmsjdyfrydMdur.dkgdpedljrp.deqydeidyfjdueex dYzqj,
Mdoeqcxd.jjdpedicrudmpdyfjdrcmkmdMdfrxd.ed.qxxjpcgdoepojmtjx dM
frxdkqydyed.ymovdyedlgd.yezg,drpxdMdirmcjxdyed.jjdfeudKjccrdoeqcx
kjdoeptmoyjxdmpdirojdeidmy dMydur.dpeydr.dyfeqhfdyfjzjdur.drpgdecx
izmjpx.fmadkjyujjpdq.dyfrydoeqcxdkjdzrvjxdqa,drpxdufmofdlmhfydcjrx
yfjldyed.q.ajoydyfrydMdur.doellmyymphdajznqzg dMydoeqcxdkjdazetjx
yfrydmpdroyqrcdiroydMdfrxdepcgd.jjpdyfjdhmzcdepdyfzjjdeoor.mep. dPe,
Mdur.d.ymccd.rym.imjxdumyfdlgdmxjr--frxdpeydjtjpdAemzeydrxlmyyjx
yfrydmydxjijryjxdfml?

KqydyfjzjdMdijcydyfjdpjjxdeidyzjrxmphdurzmcg dRccdtjzgdujccdiez
lgdcmyycjdizmjpxdyedrxlmydfml.jcidleljpyrzmcgdpepacq..jx dMdfrx
irzdyeedlqofdzj.ajoydiezdfm.drkmcmymj.dyedoepojmtjdeidfmldr.dkjmph
oepyjpydyedzjlrmpdmpdyfrydae.mymep ddMdfrxdrdtjzgdfqlkcjdeampmep
eidlgdumy.dufjpdmydorljdyedlryofmphdyfjldrhrmp.ydfm. dAemzeydueqcx
peydyrvjdxjijrydcgmphdxeup d.eljfeudezdeyfjz,dfjdueqcxdjpxjrteqz
yedyqzpdyfjdyrkcj.depdlj,drpxdyfrydmpdyfjdurg,drpxdrydyfjdleljpy,
ufjpdMdcjr.ydjbajoyjxdmy 

Ujdljydrydkzjrvir.ydyfjdiecceumphdlezpmphdr.dyfeqhfdpeyfmphdfrx
fraajpjx dAemzey'.dheexdyjlajzdur.dmlajzyqzkrkcj,dgjydMdyfeqhfy
Mdxjyjoyjxdrdimcldeidzj.jztjdmpdfm.dlrppjzdufmofdur.dpju dRiyjz
kzjrvir.y,dMdrppeqpojxdlgdmpyjpymepdeidhemphdeqydiezdrd.yzecc dR
lrcmomeq.dhcjrld.feydyfzeqhfdAemzey'.djgj. 

"Midmydm.dmpiezlrymepdgeqd.jjv,dgeqdpjjxdpeydkjdrydyfjdarmp.
eidxjzrphmphdgeqz.jci dMdorpdyjccdgeqdrccdgeqdum.fdyedvpeu dYfj
Xqcomkjccrd.m.yjz.dfrtjdorpojccjxdyfjmzdoepyzroy,drpxdfrtjdcjiy
Oetjpyzgdiezdrpdqpvpeupdxj.ymprymep "

"M.dyfrydzjrccgd.e,dAemzey?"

"Geqdorpdyrvjdmydizeldlj,dFr.ymph. dMdlrxjdmpwqmzmj.dyfjdimz.y
yfmphdyfm.dlezpmph dRiyjzdrcc,dufrydjc.jdxmxdgeqdjbajoy?"

Yzqjdjpeqhf,dpeyfmphdjc.jdoeqcxdkjdjbajoyjxdqpxjzdyfj
omzoql.yrpoj. dOmpxjzjccrdfrxdazeimyjxdkgdyfjd.cmhfyd.yrzydMdfrx
kjjpdrkcjdyedr..qzjdfjz,drpxdueqcxdojzyrmpcgdpeydce.jdrdleljpydmp
zjletmphdfjz.jcidizeldyfjdzjrofdeidyfjdaqz.qjz dMydur.dufrydMdfrx
mpyjpxjxdrpxdacrppjx ddPjtjzyfjcj..,dMdur.drurzjdeidkjmphdacqphjx
mpyedrdpjyuezvdeidizj.fdxmiimoqcymj. 

Mdfrxdrk.ecqyjcgdpedljrp.deidoellqpmorymphdumyfdyfjdhmzc,drpx
mydur.dtmyrcdyfryd.fjd.feqcxdvpeudyfjdcmpjdeidxjijpojdyfrydfrx
eooqzzjxdyedlj,drpxdufmofdMdur.dazjarzjxdyedorzzgdeqy dEidoeqz.j
mydur.dae..mkcjdyfryd.fjdlmhfydyzgdyed.jpxduezxdyedljdmpd.eljdurg
ezdrpeyfjz,dkqydMdfrzxcgdyfeqhfydmydcmvjcg d.fjdueqcxdvpeudyfjdzm.v
.fjdzrpdeidrdlj..rhjdkjmphdmpyjzojayjxdkgdAemzey,dyfq.d.jyymphdfml
epdfjzdyzrovdepojdlezj dOcjrzcgdfjzdepcgdoeqz.jdur.dyedxm.raajrz
qyyjzcgdiezdyfjdymljdkjmph 

Kqy,dmpdyfjdljrpymlj,dufrydur.dAemzeydxemph?dMd.yqxmjxdfml
ryyjpymtjcg dFjdur.dujrzmphdfm.dle.ydmppeojpydrmz,drpxd.yrzmph
ljxmyrymtjcgdmpyedyfjdirzdxm.yrpoj ddFjdceevjxdrcyehjyfjzdyeedacromx
rpxd.qampjdyedhmtjdljdzjr..qzrpoj dMdfrxdcjrzpjx,dumyfdAemzey,
yfrydyfjdcj..dxrphjzeq.dfjdceevjx,dyfjdlezjdxrphjzeq.dfjdur. dFm.
wqmj.ojpojdrcrzljxdlj dEk.jztmphdrdyzeqkcjxdwqrcmygdmpdlgdhcrpoj,
fjd.lmcjxdkjpmhprpycg 

"Geqdrzjdaqsscjx,dFr.ymph.?dGeqdr.vdgeqz.jcidufgdMdxedpeydcrqpof
lg.jcidmpdaqz.qmy?"

"Ujcc--.eljyfmphdeidyfjdvmpx "

"Mydm.dufrydgeqdueqcxdxe,dujzjdgeqdmpdlgdacroj dMdqpxjz.yrpx
yfry dKqydMdrldpeydeidyfe.jdufedjpnegdzq.fmphdqadrpxdxeupdr
oeqpyzgd.jjvmphdrdpjjxcjdmpdrdfrg.yrov,dr.dgeqdJphcm.fd.rg dPe--cjy
Lrxjlem.jccjdKjccrdXqtjjpdhe dUmyfeqydxeqky,dMd.frccdkjdrkcjdye
impxdfjzdufjpdyfjdymljdoelj. dQpymcdyfjp,dMdrldoepyjpydyedurmy "

Md.yrzjxdrydfmldxeqkyiqccg dUr.dfjd.jjvmphdyedlm.cjrxdlj?dMdfrxdrp
mzzmyrymphdijjcmphdyfry,djtjpdpeu,dfjdur.dlr.yjzdeidyfjd.myqrymep dLg
.jp.jdeid.qajzmezmygdur.dhzrxqrccgdurpmph dMdfrxdoepyzmtjxdyfj
hmzc'.dj.oraj,drpxdjtectjxdrdkzmccmrpyd.ofjljdiezd.rtmphdfjzdizel
yfjdoep.jwqjpoj.deidfjzdzr.fdroy--kqydMdoeqcxdpeydzj.ydjr.gdmpdlg
lmpx dAemzey'.dajzijoydorcldrurvjpjxdrdyfeq.rpxdraazjfjp.mep. 

"Md.qaae.j,dAemzey,"dMd.rmxdzryfjzdxmiimxjpycg,d"Mdlq.yp'ydr.vdufry
geqzdacrp.drzj?dM'tjdiezijmyjxdyfjdzmhfy "

"Kqydpeydrydrcc dYfjzjdm.dped.jozjydrkeqydyfjl dUjdzjyqzpdyedIzrpoj
umyfeqydxjcrg "

"_Uj?_"

"Azjom.jcg--'_uj!_'dGeqdvpeudtjzgdujccdyfrydgeqdorppeydriiezxdye
cjydArardAemzeydeqydeidgeqzd.mhfy dJf,dm.dmydpeyd.e,dlgdizmjpx?dKqy
zjlrmpdmpdJphcrpxdkgdrccdljrp.dmidgeqdum.f--"

Md.feevdlgdfjrx dFjdfrxdfmydyfjdprmcdepdyfjdfjrx dMdoeqcxdpey
riiezxdyedcjydfmldeqydeidlgd.mhfy dRcyfeqhfdMdoeqcxdpeydjbajoy
fm.doepimxjpojdriyjzdufrydfrxdfraajpjx,dMdoeqcxd.ymccdofjovdfm.
roymep. dYfjdepcgdxrphjzdyedKjccrdcrgdumyfdfml dHmzrqxdrpxdyfj
Izjpofdaecmojdujzjdmpxmiijzjpydyedfjzdjbm.yjpoj dRydrccdoe.y.dM
lq.ydvjjadpjrzdAemzey 

Aemzeydek.jztjxdljdryyjpymtjcgdr.dyfj.jdzjicjoymep.dar..jxdyfzeqhf
lgdlmpx,drpxdhrtjdrdpexdeid.rym.iroymep 

"Mdrldzmhfy,drldMdpey?dRpxdr.dgeqdrzjdwqmyjdorarkcjdeidyzgmphdye
iecceudlj,dxm.hqm.jxdumyfd.eljdrk.qzxmygd.qofdr.drdirc.jdkjrzx--ufmof
jtjzgdepjdueqcxdajzojmtj,d_kmjpdjpyjpxq_--Mdlqofdazjijzdyfryduj
.feqcxdtegrhjdyehjyfjz dMydueqcxdrppegdljdhzjrycgdyfrydrpgdepj
.feqcxdleovdyfjl.jctj.drydgeq "

"Tjzgdujcc,dyfjp dKqydmy'.depcgdirmzdyedurzpdgeq--"

"Mdvpeu--Mdvpeudrcc dGeqdrzjdlgdjpjlg!dKjdlgdjpjlgdyfjp dMydxej.
peyduezzgdljdrydrcc "

".edcephdr.dmy'.drccdirmzdrpxdrketj-kerzx,dMdxep'ydlmpx "

"GeqdfrtjdyedyfjdiqccdyfjdJphcm.fdar..mepdiezd'irmz-acrg!'dPeudgeqz
.ozqacj.drzjd.rym.imjx,dcjydq.dxjarzydmlljxmryjcg ddYfjzjdm.dpedymlj
yedkjdce.y dEqzd.yrgdmpdJphcrpxdfr.dkjjpd.fezydkqyd.qiimomjpy dM
vpeu--ufrydMdurpyjxdyedvpeu "

Yfjdyepjdur.dcmhfy,dkqydMdzjrxdrdtjmcjxdljprojdmpyedyfjduezx. 

".ymcc--"dMdkjhrp,drpxd.yeaajx 

".ymcc--r.dgeqd.rg!dUmyfeqydxeqkydgeqdrzjd.rym.imjxdumyfdyfjdarzy
geqdrzjdacrgmph dLj,dMdazjeooqagdlg.jcidumyfdNrovdZjprqcx "

NrovdZjprqcx!dYfjduezx.dhrtjdljdrd.yrzy dMdfrxdoelacjyjcgdiezheyyjp
yfrydr.ajoydeidyfjdor.j dNrovdZjprqcx,dmpdazm.ep,dumyfdyfjd.frxeu
eidyfjdhqmcceympjdceelmphdetjzdfml!dMd.rudyfjdarzydMdur.dacrgmph
mpdrdlezjd.mpm.yjzdcmhfy dMdoeqcxd.rtjdKjccr--gj.,dkqydmpdxemphd.e
Mdzrpdyfjdzm.vdeid.jpxmphdrpdmppeojpydlrpdyedfm.dxjryf 

Mdaq.fjxdyfjdyfeqhfydizeldljdumyfdfezzez dMydoeqcxdpeydkj dFjdueqcx
kjdrowqmyyjx dOjzyrmpcgdfjdueqcxdkjdrowqmyyjx!dKqydyfjdoecxdijrz
orljdkrov d.qaae.jdfjdujzjdpey?dUfrydyfjp?dOeqcxdMdfrtjdmydepdlg
oep.omjpoj--fezzmkcjdyfeqhfy!dUeqcxdmydoeljdyedyfrydmpdyfjdjpx?dR
xjom.mep dKjccrdezdNrovdZjprqcx?dYfjdazelaymph.deidlgdfjrzydujzj
yed.rtjdyfjdhmzcdMdcetjxdrydrpgdoe.ydyedlg.jci ddKqy,dmidyfjdoe.y
ujzjdyedrpeyfjz,dyfjdazekcjldur.drcyjzjx 

Ufrydueqcxdyfjdhmzcdfjz.jcid.rg?dMdzjljlkjzjxdyfrydpeduezxdei
NrovdZjprqcx'.drzzj.ydfrxdar..jxdlgdcma. ddR.dgjyd.fjdur.dmpdyeyrc
mhpezrpojdeidyfjdiroydyfrydfjzdiezljzdcetjzdur.dmpdazm.epdofrzhjx
umyfdrdfmxjeq.dozmljdufmofdfjdfrxdpeydoellmyyjx dUfjpd.fjdvpju,
feudueqcxd.fjdroy?dUeqcxd.fjdajzlmydfjzdcmijdyedkjd.rtjxdrydyfj
jbajp.jdeidfm.?dOjzyrmpcgd.fjdlq.ydxedpeyfmphdzr.f ddNrovdZjprqcx
lmhfy,drpxdazekrkcgdueqcx,dkjdrowqmyyjxdumyfeqydrpgdmpyjztjpymep
epdfjzdarzy dMid.e,dheex dKqydmidfjdur.dpey d d d dYfrydur.dyfj
yjzzmkcj,dyfjdqprp.ujzrkcjdazekcjl dMdirpomjxdyfryd.fjdzrpdpe
zm.vdeidyfjdjbyzjljdajprcyg dYfjdomzoql.yrpoj.deidyfjdozmljdujzj
wqmyjdxmiijzjpydmpdfjzdor.j d.fjdoeqcxdacjrxdnjrceq.gdrpxdjbyzjlj
azeteorymep,drpxdfjzdgeqyfdrpxdkjrqygdueqcxdhediezdlqof dYfjdiroy
yfrydkgdrdyzrhmodlm.yrvjdmydur.decxdLz ddZjprqcx,drpxdpeydfm.d.ep,
ufedarmxdyfjdajprcygdueqcxdpeydrcyjzdyfjdleymtjdeidyfjdozmlj dKqy
mpdrpgdor.j,dfeujtjzdcjpmjpydyfjd.jpyjpojdeidyfjdOeqzy,dmydlq.y
ljrpdrdcephdyjzldeidmlazm.epljpy 

Pe,dKjccrdlq.ydkjdazeyjoyjx dRpx,drydyfjd.rljdymlj,dNrovdZjprqcxdlq.y
kjd.rtjx dFeudyfm.dur.dyedkjdrooelacm.fjxdMdxmxdpeyd.jjdocjrzcg dKqy
MdamppjxdlgdirmyfdyedAemzey dFjdvpju dOeljdufrydlmhfy,dfjdueqcx
lrprhjdyed.rtjdrpdmppeojpydlrp dFjdlq.ydimpxd.eljdazjyjbydeyfjz
yfrpdyfjdzjrcdepj dMydlmhfydkjdxmiimoqcy,dkqydfjdueqcxdlrprhjdmy
.eljfeu dRpxdumyfdKjccrdqp.q.ajoyjx,drpxdNrovdZjprqcxdrowqmyyjx,
rccdueqcxdjpxd.rym.iroyezmcg 

.edMdyecxdlg.jcidzjajryjxcg,dkqydrydyfjdkeyyeldeidlgdfjrzydyfjzj
.ymccdzjlrmpjxdrdoecxdijrz 




24

".rtjdFml!"


Ujdoze..jxdizeldJphcrpxdkgdyfjdjtjpmphdkery,drpxdyfjdiecceumph
lezpmphd.rudq.dmpd.rmpy-Eljz,dufmyfjzdNrovdZjprqcxdfrxdkjjp
yrvjp dAemzeydce.ydpedymljdmpdtm.mymphdL dFrqyjy dR.dfjdxmxdpey
.jjldxm.ae.jxdyedlrvjdrpgdeknjoymep.dyedlgdrooelarpgmphdfml,dMdkezj
fmldoelarpg 

Riyjzdtrzmeq.diezlrcmymj.drpxdazjcmlmprzmj.,dujdujzjdoepxqoyjxdye
yfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj'.dzeel dFjdhzjjyjxdq.doezxmrccg 

"Mdur.dyecxdyfrydgeqdfrxdzjyqzpjxdyedJphcrpx,dL ddAemzey dMdrldhcrx
yedimpxdyfryd.qofdm.dpeydyfjdor.j "

"Mydm.dyzqjdyfrydMdujpydyfjzj,dL dcjdnqhj,dkqydmydur.depcgdiez
rdicgmphdtm.my dRd.mxjdm..qj,dkqydepjdyfrydMdirpomjxdlmhfydzjarg
mptj.ymhrymep "

"Rpxdmydxmx--jf?"

Aemzeyd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. dL dFrqyjydpexxjx,d.mhfmph 

"Ujdlq.ydzj.mhpdeqz.jctj.,dMdijrz dYfrydrpmlrcdHmzrqx,dfm.dlrppjz.
rzjdrkelmprkcj,dkqydfjdm.dqpxeqkyjxcgdocjtjz!dPeydlqofdofrpojdei
yfrydepjdlrvmphdrdlm.yrvj "

"Geqdyfmpvdpey,dL dcjdnqhj?"

Mydur.dyfjdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj'.dyqzpdyed.fzqhdfm.d.feqcxjz. 

"_Jfdkmjp_,d.ajrvmphdizrpvcg--mpdoepimxjpoj,d_o'j.ydjpyjpxq_--orp
geqdoeljdyedrpgdeyfjzdoepocq.mep?"

"Izrpvcg,dL dcjdnqhj,dyfjzjd.jjldyedljdyedkjdlrpgdaempy.dyfry
rzjdek.oqzj "

".qofdr.--?"

KqydAemzeydur.dpeydyedkjdxzrup 

"Mdfrtjdpeydgjydyrkqcryjxdyfjl,"dfjdzjlrzvjx d"Mydur.drdhjpjzrc
zjicjoymepdyfrydMdur.dlrvmph dMdcmvjxdyfjdgeqphdlrp,drpxd.feqcxdkj
.ezzgdyedkjcmjtjdfmldhqmcygdeid.qofdrdfmxjeq.dozmlj dKgdyfjdurg,
ufrydfr.dfjdyed.rgdiezdfml.jcidepdyfjdlryyjz?"

Yfjdlrhm.yzryjdizeupjx 

"Mdorppeydqpxjz.yrpxdfml dFjd.jjl.dmporarkcjdeidaqyymphdqadrpg
.ezydeidxjijpoj dMydfr.dkjjpdle.ydxmiimoqcydyedhjydfmldyedrp.ujz
wqj.ymep. dFjdoepyjpy.dfml.jcidumyfdrdhjpjzrcdxjpmrc,drpxdkjgepx
yfrydyrvj.dzjiqhjdmpdrdle.ydek.ympryjd.mcjpoj dMdrldmpyjzzehrymph
fmldrhrmpdyelezzeu;dajzfra.dgeqdueqcxdcmvjdyedkjdazj.jpy?"

Ujdroojayjxdyfjdmptmyrymepdumyfd_jlazj..jljpy_ 

"Rdxm.yzj..mphdor.j,"d.rmxdyfjdlrhm.yzryjdumyfdrd.mhf dd"Lgd.glaryfg
iezdLrxrljdZjprqcxdm.dazeieqpx "

"Feudm.dLrxrljdZjprqcx?"

".fjdfr.dpeydgjydzjoetjzjxdoep.omeq.pj.. dMydm.dljzomiqcdmpdrdurg,
aeezduelrp,d.fjdm.dkjmphd.arzjxdlqof ddYfjdxeoyez.d.rgdyfrydyfjzjdm.
pedxrphjz,dkqydyfrydufjpd.fjdoelj.dyedfjz.jcid.fjdlq.ydkjdvjaydr.
wqmjydr.dae..mkcj ddMydur.,dMdqpxjz.yrpx,dwqmyjdr.dlqofdyfjd.feov
r.dyfjdirccdufmofdorq.jxdfjzdazj.jpyd.yryj dMydueqcxdkjdyjzzmkcj
midfjzdkzrmpdkjorljdqpfmphjx;dkqydMd.feqcxdpeyduepxjzdrydrcc--pe,
zjrccg,dpeydrydrcc "

L dFrqyjydcjrpjxdkrov,d.frvmphdfm.dfjrx,dumyfdrd.ezydeidleqzpiqc
jpnegljpy,dr.dfjdjptm.rhjxdyfjdhceelgdaze.ajoy 

Fjdzeq.jxdfml.jcidrydcjphyf,drpxdek.jztjxdumyfdrd.yrzy 

"Yfrydzjlmpx.dlj dMdfrtjdfjzjdrdcjyyjzdiezdgeq,dL ddAemzey dCjydlj
.jj,dufjzjdxmxdMdaqydmy?"

Fjdazeojjxjxdyedzqllrhjdrleph.ydfm.darajz. dRydcr.ydfjdieqpxdyfj
lm..mtj,drpxdfrpxjxdmydyedAemzey 

"Mydur.d.jpydqpxjzdoetjzdyedljdmpdezxjzdyfrydMdlmhfydiezurzxdmydye
geq,"dfjdjbacrmpjx d"Kqydr.dgeqdcjiydpedrxxzj..dMdoeqcxdpeydxed.e "

Aemzeyd.yqxmjxdyfjdcjyyjzdoqzmeq.cg dMydur.drxxzj..jxdmpdr
ceph,d.ceamph,diezjmhpdfrpx,drpxdyfjduzmymphdur.dxjomxjxcgdr
uelrp'. dAemzeydxmxdpeydeajpdmy dMp.yjrxdfjdaqydmydmpdfm.daeovjy
rpxdze.jdyedfm.dijjy 

"_Rdxjlrmp_dyfjp,dL dcjdnqhj dLrpgdyfrpv.diezdgeqzdoeqzyj.gdrpx
rlmrkmcmyg "

"Kqydpeydrydrcc dMdrldrcurg.drydgeqzd.jztmoj dYfj.jdgeqph
xjyjoymtj.deidyfjd.ofeecdeidHmzrqx,dyfjgdrzjdrccdrcmvj--zqxj,
.pjjzmphdijcceu. dYfjgdxedpeydzjrcmsjdyfrydrpdjbrlmpmphdlrhm.yzryj
eidlg--jz--jbajzmjpojdm.dkeqpxdyedfrtjdrdojzyrmpdxm.ojzpljpy,
rdojzyrmp--_icrmz_ dd_Jpimp!_dyfjdaecmyjpj..deidyfjdecxd.ofeecdm.
mpimpmyjcgdlezjdyedlgdyr.yj dYfjzjiezj,dlgdxjrzdizmjpx,doellrpxdlj
mpdrpgdurgdgeqdumcc dUjdvpeudrdyfmphdezdyue,dgeqdrpxdM--jf?"

Rpxdcrqhfmphdfjrzymcg,djpofrpyjxdumyfdfml.jcidrpxdumyfdq.,dL dFrqyjy
krxjdq.drxmjq dMdrld.ezzgdyedfrtjdyedzjoezxdyfrydAemzey'.dimz.y
zjlrzvdyedljdr.dujdyzrtjz.jxdyfjdoezzmxezdur.:

"Rdirleq.decxdmlkjomcj,dyfrydepj!dEidrd.yqamxmygdyedlrvjdamyg!"

Ujdujzjdnq.ydcjrtmphdyfjdkqmcxmphdufjpdujdorljdirojdyedirojdumyf
Hmzrqx,dceevmphdlezjdxrpxmimjxdyfrpdjtjz,drpxdyfezeqhfcgdacjr.jx
umyfdfml.jci 

"Rfr!dL dAemzey,"dfjdozmjxdrmzmcg d"GeqdfrtjdzjyqzpjxdizeldJphcrpx
yfjp?"

"R.dgeqd.jj,"d.rmxdAemzey 

"Yfjdjpxdeidyfjdor.jdm.dpeydirzdeiidpeu,dMdirpog "

"Mdrhzjjdumyfdgeq,dL dHmzrqx "

Aemzeyd.aevjdmpdrd.qkxqjxdyepj dFm.dozj.y-irccjpdlrppjzd.jjljxdye
xjcmhfydyfjdeyfjz 

"Eidrccdyfjdlmcvdrpxduryjzdozmlmprc.!dPeydrpdmxjrdeidxjijpxmph
fml.jci dMydm.djbyzrezxmprzg!"

".edjbyzrezxmprzgdyfrydmydhmtj.depjdyedyfmpv,dxej.dmydpey?"d.qhhj.yjx
Aemzeydlmcxcg 

KqydHmzrqxdur.dpeydjtjpdcm.yjpmph dFjdyumzcjxdfm.dorpjdrlmorkcg 

"Ujcc,dheexdxrg,dL dAemzey dMdrldhcrxdgeq'zjd.rym.imjxdeidgeqph
Zjprqcx'.dhqmcydrydcr.y "

"_Arzxep!_dKqydMdrldpeydmpdyfjdcjr.yd.rym.imjx dNrovdZjprqcxdm.
mppeojpy "

Hmzrqxd.yrzjxdiezdrdleljpy--yfjpdkqz.ydeqydcrqhfmph,dyraamphdfm.
fjrxd.mhpmimorpycgdumyfdyfjdkzmjidzjlrzv:d"_Yewqé!_"

Aemzeydxzjudfml.jcidqa dRdxrphjzeq.dcmhfyd.feujxdmpdfm.djgj. 

"L dHmzrqx,dyfzeqhfeqydyfjdor.jdgeqzdlrppjzdyedljdfr.dkjjp
xjcmkjzryjcgdmp.qcymph!dGeqdpjjxdyjrofmphdrdcj..ep dMdrldazjarzjxdye
urhjzdgeqd500dizrpo.dyfrydMdimpxdyfjdlqzxjzjzdeidL dZjprqcxdkjiezj
geqdxe dM.dmydrhzjjx?"

Hmzrqxd.yrzjxdfjcacj..cgdrydfml,drpxdlqzlqzjxdrhrmp:

"_Yewqé!_"

"Oeljdpeu,"dqzhjxdAemzey,d"m.dmydrhzjjx?"

"Mdfrtjdpedum.fdyedyrvjdgeqzdlepjgdizeldgeq "

"Lrvjdgeqzdlmpxdjr.g--geqdumccdpey!"

"Ef,dujccdyfjp,dMdrhzjj!dGeqd.ajrvdeidlgdlrppjzdyedgeqdkjmph
mp.qcymph d_Jfdkmjp_,depojdezdyumoj,d_geqz_dlrppjzdfr.drppegjxd_lj_ "

"Mdrldjpofrpyjxdyedfjrzdmy,"d.rmxdAemzey d"Heexdlezpmph,
L dHmzrqx dOelj,dFr.ymph. "

Md.rmxdpeduezxdr.dujdurcvjxdrcephdyfjd.yzjjy dLgdfjrzydur.
fjrtg dAemzeydfrxdxm.acrgjxdfm.dmpyjpymep.depcgdyeedacrmpcg dM
xeqkyjxdlezjdyfrpdjtjzdlgdaeujz.deid.rtmphdKjccrdizeldyfj
oep.jwqjpoj.deidfjzdroy dYfm.dqpcqovgdjpoeqpyjzdumyfdHmzrqxdfrx
zeq.jxdAemzeydrpxdaqydfmldepdfm.dljyycj 

.qxxjpcgdMdijcydrdfrpxdcrmxdepdlgd.feqcxjz,drpxdyqzpjxdyediroj
Hrkzmjcd.yepez dUjd.yeaajxdrpxdhzjjyjxdfml,drpxdfjdazeae.jxd.yzeccmph
umyfdq.dkrovdyedeqzdfeyjc 

"Rpxdufrydrzjdgeqdxemphdfjzj,dL d.yepez?"dmpwqmzjxdAemzey 

"Epjdlq.yd.yrpxdkgdepj'.dizmjpx.,"dzjacmjxdyfjdeyfjz
xzgcg d"J.ajomrccgdufjpdyfjgdrzjdqpnq.ycgdrooq.jx "

"YfjpdgeqdxedpeydkjcmjtjdyfrydNrovdZjprqcxdoellmyyjxdyfjdozmlj?"dM
r.vjxdjrhjzcg 

"OjzyrmpcgdMdxep'y dMdvpeudyfjdcrx dMdrxlmydyfrydyfjzjdfrtjdkjjpdepj
ezdyuedyfmph.dmpdyfm.dkq.mpj..dyfrydfrtjd.yrhhjzjxdljdoelacjyjcg,
kqydpepjdyfjdcj..,dmpd.amyjdeidfm.dieecdurgdeidyrvmphdmy,dM'cc
pjtjzdkjcmjtjdyfrydNrovdZjprqcxdm.drdlqzxjzjz "

Lgdfjrzydurzljxdyedyfjd.jozjyrzg dFm.duezx.d.jjljxdyedcmiydrd.jozjy
ujmhfydizeldlgdfjrzy 

"Mdfrtjdpedxeqkydyfrydlrpgdajeacjdijjcdr.dgeqdxe,"dM
jbocrmljx d"Yfjzjdm.dzjrccgdrk.qzxcgdcmyycjdjtmxjpojdrhrmp.y
fml dMd.feqcxd.rgdyfrydyfjzjdur.dpedxeqkydeidfm.drowqmyyrc--pe
xeqkydufryjtjz "

Kqyd.yepezdfrzxcgdzj.aepxjxdr.dMdoeqcxdfrtjdum.fjx 

"M'xdhmtjdrdceydyedyfmpvdr.dgeqdxe,"dfjd.rmxdhzrtjcg ddFjdyqzpjx
yedAemzey d"Ufry'.dgeqzdeampmep,dlep.mjqz?"

"Mdyfmpvdyfrydyfmph.dceevdtjzgdkcrovdrhrmp.ydfml,"d.rmxdAemzey
wqmjycg 

"Geqdkjcmjtjdfmldhqmcyg?"d.rmxd.yepezd.frzacg 

"Pe dKqydMdyfmpvdfjdumccdimpxdmydfrzxdyedazetjdfm.dmppeojpoj "

"Fj'.dkjfrtmphd.edxrlpjxdwqjjzcg,"dlqyyjzjxd.yepez d"Eidoeqz.j
Mdzjrcmsjdyfrydyfjzj'.drdceydlezjdmpdyfm.driirmzdyfrpdljjy.dyfj
jgj dHmzrqx'.dpeydum.jdyedyfrydkjorq.jdfj'.drpdeqy.mxjz,dkqydyfj
ufecjdyfmphdfr.dkjjpdxrlpjxdexx dR.dyedyfry,dcjr.yd.rmxd.eepj.y
ljpxjx dMidLz. dZjprqcxdurpy.dyedfq.fdrpgyfmphdqa,dM'ccdyrvjdlg
oqjdizeldfjz dMy'.dfjzd.feu,drpxdM'tjdyeedlqofdzj.ajoydiezdfjz
nqxhljpydyed.fetjdlgderzdmp,dkqydMdorp'ydhjydkjfmpxdyfm.dryymyqxj
eidNrov'. dRpgdepjdueqcxdyfmpvdfjd_urpyjx_dyedkjdyfeqhfydhqmcyg "

"Kqydmy'.drk.qzx,"dMdozmjx,dkqz.ymphdmp d"Iezdepjdyfmph,dyfj
xrhhjz--"dMdarq.jx,dqpojzyrmpdr.dyedfeudlqofdAemzeydueqcxdum.fdlj
yedzjtjrc dMdoepympqjx,dofee.mphdlgduezx.dorzjiqccg,d"Ujdvpeudyfry
yfjdxrhhjzdoeqcxdpeydfrtjdkjjpdmpdNrovdZjprqcx'.dae..j..mepdyfry
jtjpmph dLz. dZjprqcxdvpeu.dyfry "

"Yzqj,"d.rmxd.yepez d"Ufjpd.fjdzjoetjz.,d.fjdumccdxeqkycj..d.rg
rccdyfm.drpxdlezj dUjcc,dMdlq.ydkjdcjrtmphdgeq "

"Epjdleljpy "dAemzey'.dfrpxdrzzj.yjxdfm.dxjarzyqzj dd"Orpdgeq
rzzrphjdiezduezxdyedkjd.jpydyedljdrydepojd.feqcxdLrxrljdZjprqcx
zjoetjzdoep.omeq.pj..?"

"Ojzyrmpcg dYfry'.djr.mcgdxepj "

"Yfrydaempydrkeqydyfjdxrhhjzdm.dheex,dAemzey,"dMdqzhjxdr.dujdujpy
qa.yrmz. d"Mdoeqcxp'yd.ajrvdtjzgdacrmpcgdkjiezjd.yepez "

"Yfrydur.dwqmyjdzmhfydeidgeq dUjdlmhfydr.dujccdvjjadyfjdvpeucjxhj
yedeqz.jctj.dr.dcephdr.dujdorp dR.dyedyfjdxrhhjz,dgeqzdaempydfrzxcg
fjca.dNrovdZjprqcx dGeqdzjljlkjzdyfrydMdur.drk.jpydiezdrpdfeqzdyfm.
lezpmph,dkjiezjdujd.yrzyjxdizeldCepxep?"

"Gj.?"

"Ujcc,dMdur.djlacegjxdmpdyzgmphdyedimpxdyfjdimzldNrovdZjprqcx
jlacegjxdyedoeptjzydfm.d.eqtjpmz. dMydur.dpeydtjzgdxmiimoqcy d_Jf
kmjp_,dFr.ymph.,dyfjgdlrxjdyedfm.dezxjzdpeyd_yue_darajz-vpmtj.,
kqyd_yfzjj_ "

".edyfry--?"

".edyfry,driyjzdhmtmphdepjdyedfm.dleyfjz,drpxdepjdyedKjccrdXqtjjp,
yfjzjdur.drdyfmzxdufmofdfjdxeqkycj..dzjyrmpjxdiezdfm.deupdq.j dPe,
Fr.ymph.,dMdijrzdyfjdxrhhjzdwqj.ymepdumccdpeydfjcadq.dyed.rtjdfml
izeldyfjdhqmcceympj "

"Myduep'ydoeljdyedyfry,"dMdozmjx,d.yqph 

Aemzeyd.feevdfm.dfjrxdqpojzyrmpcg 

"Geqdumccd.rtjdfml,"dMdozmjxdae.mymtjcg 

Aemzeydhcrpojxdrydljdxzgcg 

"Frtjdgeqdpeydzjpxjzjxdmydmlae..mkcj,d_lepdrlm_?"

".eljdeyfjzdurg,"dMdlqyyjzjx 

"Rf!d_.razm.ym!_dKqydmydm.dlmzrocj.dgeqdr.vdizeldlj ddPe--.rgdpe
lezj dCjydq.dmp.yjrxd.jjdufrydm.dmpdyfm.dcjyyjz "

Rpxdfjdxzjudeqydyfjdjptjceajdizeldfm.dkzjr.ydaeovjy 

Fm.dirojdoepyzroyjxdr.dfjdzjrx,dyfjpdfjdfrpxjxdyfjdepjdicml.gd.fjjy
yedlj 

"Yfjzjdrzjdeyfjzdueljpdmpdyfjduezcxdufed.qiijz,dFr.ymph. "

Yfjduzmymphdur.dkcqzzjxdrpxdyfjdpeyjdfrxdjtmxjpycgdkjjpduzmyyjpdmp
hzjrydrhmyrymep:

"_XjrzdL dAemzey:_

"Midgeqdhjydyfm.,dMdkjhdeidgeqdyedoeljdyedlgdrmx dMdfrtjdpedepjdye
yqzpdye,drpxdrydrccdoe.y.dNrovdlq.ydkjd.rtjx dMdmlacezjdeidgeqdep
lgdvpjj.dyedfjcadq. 

"LRZYFJdXRQKZJQMC "

Mdfrpxjxdmydkrov,dletjx 

"Geqdumccdhe?"

"Rydepoj dUjdumccdoellrpxdrpdrqye "

Frcidrpdfeqzdcryjzd.rudq.drydyfjdTmccrdLrzhqjzmyj ddLrzyfjdur.dry
yfjdxeezdyedljjydq.,drpxdcjxdAemzeydmp,docmphmphdumyfdkeyfdfrpx.
yedepjdeidfm. 

"Rf,dgeqdfrtjdoelj--mydm.dheexdeidgeq dMdfrtjdkjjpdmpdxj.armz,dpey
vpeumphdufrydyedxe dYfjgdumccdpeydcjydljdhedyed.jjdfmldmpdazm.ep
jtjp dMd.qiijzdfezzmkcg,dMdrldpjrzcgdlrx dM.dmydyzqjdufrydyfjg
.rg,dyfrydfjdxej.dpeydxjpgdyfjdozmlj?dKqydyfrydm.dlrxpj.. dMydm.
mlae..mkcjdyfrydfjd.feqcxdfrtjdxepjdmy!dPjtjzdiezdepjdlmpqyjdumcc
Mdkjcmjtjdmy "

"PjmyfjzdxedMdkjcmjtjdmy,dlrxjlem.jccj,"d.rmxdAemzeydhjpycg 

"Kqydyfjpdufgdxej.dfjdpeyd.ajrv?dMdxedpeydqpxjz.yrpx "

"Ajzfra.dkjorq.jdfjdm.d.ozjjpmphd.eljdepj,"d.qhhj.yjxdAemzey,
uryofmphdfjz 

Lrzyfjdizeupjx 

".ozjjpmphd.eljdepj?dXedgeqdljrpdfm.dleyfjz?dRf,dizeldyfjdkjhmppmphdM
frtjd.q.ajoyjxdfjz dUfedmpfjzmy.drccdyfrydtr.ydiezyqpj?d.fjdxej. dMy
m.djr.gdyedujrzdumxeu'.dujjx.drpxdacrgdyfjdfgaeozmyj dRpxdyfjgd.rg
yfrydufjpdfjdur.drzzj.yjxd.fjdijccdxeup--cmvjd_yfry_ "dd.fjdlrxjdr
xzrlrymodhj.yqzj d"Rpxdumyfeqydxeqky,dL dd.yepez,dyfjd.jozjyrzg,
fjdfjcajxdfjz dYfjgdrzjdyfmovdr.dyfmjtj.,dyfe.jdyue dMydm.dyzqj
.fjdm.decxjzdyfrpdfj--kqydufrydxedljpdorzj--midrduelrpdm.dzmof!"

Yfjzjdur.drdfmpydeidkmyyjzpj..dmpdfjzdyepj 

".yepezdur.dmpdJphcrpx,"dMdaqydmp 

"Fjd.rg.d.e--kqydufedvpeu.?"

"Lrxjlem.jccj,"d.rmxdAemzeydwqmjycg,d"midujdrzjdyeduezvdyehjyfjz,dgeq
rpxdM,dujdlq.ydfrtjdyfmph.docjrz ddImz.y,dMdumccdr.vdgeqdrdwqj.ymep "

"Gj.,dlep.mjqz?"

"Rzjdgeqdrurzjdeidgeqzdleyfjz'.dzjrcdprlj?"

Lrzyfjdceevjxdrydfmldiezdrdlmpqyj,dyfjp,dcjyymphdfjzdfjrxdircc
iezurzxdepdfjzdrzl.,d.fjdkqz.ydmpyedyjrz. 

"Yfjzj,dyfjzj,"d.rmxdAemzey,daryymphdfjzdepdyfjd.feqcxjz d"Orcl
geqz.jci,d_ajymyj_,dMd.jjdyfrydgeqdvpeu ddPeudrd.joepxdwqj.ymep,
xmxdgeqdvpeudufedL dZjprqcxdur.?"

"L dZjprqcx,"d.fjdzrm.jxdfjzdfjrxdizeldfjzdfrpx.drpxdhrsjxdry
fmlduepxjzmphcg 

"Rf,dMd.jjdgeqdxedpeydvpeudyfry dPeudcm.yjpdyedljdorzjiqccg "

.yjadkgd.yja,dfjdujpydetjzdyfjdor.j,dlqofdr.dfjdfrxdxepjdyedljdepdyfj
xrgdeideqzdxjarzyqzjdiezdJphcrpx ddLrzyfjdcm.yjpjxd.ajcckeqpx dUfjp
fjdfrxdimpm.fjx,d.fjdxzjudrdcephdkzjryf 

"Kqydgeqdrzjduepxjziqc--lrhpmimojpy!dGeqdrzjdyfjdhzjryj.ydxjyjoymtj
mpdyfjduezcx "

Umyfdrd.umiydhj.yqzjd.fjd.cmaajxdeiidfjzdofrmzdrpxdvpjcydkjiezj
fmldumyfdrpdrkrpxepljpydyfrydur.dufeccgdIzjpof 

".rtjdfml,dlep.mjqz,"d.fjdozmjx d"Mdcetjdfmld.e dEf,d.rtjdfml,
.rtjdfml--.rtjdfml!"




25

RpdQpjbajoyjxdXépeqjljpy


Ujdujzjdazj.jpydyfjdiecceumphdlezpmphdrydyfjdjbrlmprymepdeidNrov
Zjprqcx d.fezydr.dyfjdymljdfrxdkjjp,dMdur.d.feovjxdrydyfjdofrphj
yfrydfrxdyrvjpdacrojdmpdyfjdgeqphdazm.epjz dFm.dofjjv.dfrxdirccjp
mp,dyfjzjdujzjdxjjadkcrovdomzocj.dzeqpxdfm.djgj.,drpxdfjdceevjx
frhhrzxdrpxdxm.yzrqhfy,dr.depjdufedfrxdueejxd.cjjadmpdtrmpdiez
.jtjzrcdpmhfy. dFjdkjyzrgjxdpedjleymepdryd.jjmphdq. 

Yfjdazm.epjzdrpxdfm.doeqp.jc,dLrîyzjdHze.íjz,dujzjdrooellexryjx
umyfdofrmz. dRdiezlmxrkcjdhqrzxdumyfdzj.acjpxjpyd.rkzjd.yeexdkjiezj
yfjdxeez dYfjdarymjpyd_hzjiimjz_d.rydrydfm.dxj.v dYfjdjbrlmprymep
kjhrp 

"Zjprqcx,"dkjhrpdyfjdlrhm.yzryj,d"xedgeqdxjpgdyfrydgeqdujzjdmp
Ljzcmptmccjdepdyfjdpmhfydeidyfjdozmlj?"

Nrovdxmxdpeydzjacgdrydepoj,dyfjpdfjd.rmxdumyfdrdfj.myrpogdeidlrppjz
ufmofdur.damyjeq.:

"M--M--yecxdgeqdyfrydMdur.dmpdOfjzkeqzh "

LrîyzjdHze.íjzdizeupjxdrpxd.mhfjx dMdzjrcmsjxdrydepojdyfrydNrov
Zjprqcxdur.dek.ympryjcgdkjpydepdoepxqoymphdfm.deupdor.jdr.dfjdum.fjx,
yedyfjdxj.armzdeidfm.dcjhrcdzjazj.jpyrymtj 

Yfjdlrhm.yzryjdyqzpjxd.frzacg 

".jpxdmpdyfjd.yrymepdumypj..j. "

MpdrdleljpydezdyuedyfjdxeezdeajpjxdyedrxlmydrdlrpdufeldMdzjoehpmsjx
r.dkjmphdrdaezyjzdrydLjzcmptmccjd.yrymep 

"GeqdujzjdepdxqygdepdyfjdpmhfydeidNqpjd7yf?"

"Gj.,dlep.mjqz "

"Geqdumypj..jxdyfjdrzzmtrcdeidyfjd11:40dyzrmp?"

"Gj.,dlep.mjqz "

"Ceevdrydyfjdazm.epjz dXedgeqdzjoehpmsjdfmldr.dfrtmphdkjjpdepjdei
yfjdar..jphjz.dyedrcmhfy?"

"Gj.,dLep.mjqzdcjdnqhj "

"Yfjzjdm.dpedae..mkmcmygdeidgeqzdkjmphdlm.yrvjp?"

"Pe,dlep.mjqz dMdvpjudL dNrovdZjprqcxdujcc "

"Pezdeidgeqzdkjmphdlm.yrvjpdr.dyedyfjdxryj?"

"Pe,dlep.mjqz dKjorq.jdmydur.dyfjdiecceumphdlezpmph,dNqpjd8yf,
yfrydujdfjrzxdeidyfjdlqzxjz "

Rpeyfjzdzrmcurgdeiimomrcdur.dkzeqhfydmp,drpxdoepimzljxdyfjdimz.y
epj'.djtmxjpoj dYfjdlrhm.yzryjdceevjxdrydNrovdZjprqcx 

"Yfj.jdljpdfrtjdmxjpymimjxdgeqdae.mymtjcg dUfrydfrtjdgeqdyed.rg?"

Nrovd.fzqhhjxdfm.d.feqcxjz. 

"Peyfmph "

L dFrqyjydjbofrphjxdrdhcrpojdumyfdyfjd_hzjiimjz_,dr.dyfjd.ozryofmph
eidyfjdcryyjz'.dajpdzjoezxjxdyfjdrp.ujz 

"Zjprqcx,"doepympqjxdyfjdlrhm.yzryj,d"xedgeqdzjoehpmsjdyfm.?"

Fjdyeevd.eljyfmphdizeldyfjdyrkcjdkgdfm.d.mxj,drpxdfjcxdmydeqydye
yfjdazm.epjz dMd.fqxxjzjxdr.dMdzjoehpmsjxdyfjdrjzeacrpjdxrhhjz 

"Arzxep,"dozmjxdLrîyzjdHze.íjz d"Mdxjlrpxdyed.ajrvdyedlgdocmjpy
kjiezjdfjdrp.ujz.dyfrydwqj.ymep "

KqydNrovdZjprqcxdfrxdpedoep.mxjzrymepdiezdyfjdijjcmph.deidyfj
uzjyofjxdHze.íjz dFjdurtjxdfmldr.mxj,drpxdzjacmjxdwqmjycg:

"OjzyrmpcgdMdzjoehpmsjdmy dMydm.drdazj.jpydhmtjpdkgdljdyedlgdleyfjz,
r.drd.eqtjpmzdeidyfjdUrz "

"M.dyfjzj,dr.dirzdr.dgeqdvpeu,drpgdxqacmoryjdeidyfrydxrhhjzdmp
jbm.yjpoj?"

RhrmpdLrîyzjdHze.íjzdkqz.ydeqy,drpxdrhrmpdNrovdetjzzexjdfml 

"PeydyfrydMdvpeudei dYfjd.jyymphdur.dlgdeupdxj.mhp "

Jtjpdyfjdlrhm.yzryjdrcle.ydhr.ajxdrydyfjdkecxpj..deidyfjdzjacg dMy
xmx,dmpdtjzgdyzqyf,d.jjldr.dyfeqhfdNrovdur.dzq.fmphdepdfm.diryj dM
zjrcmsjx,deidoeqz.j,dyfjdtmyrcdpjoj..mygdfjdur.dqpxjzdeidoepojrcmph,
iezdKjccr'.d.rvj,dyfjdiroydyfrydyfjzjdur.drdxqacmoryjdxrhhjzdmp
yfjdor.j d.edcephdr.dyfjzjdur.d.qaae.jxdyedkjdepcgdepjdujraep,dpe
.q.amomepdur.dcmvjcgdyedryyrofdyedyfjdhmzcdufedfrxdfrxdyfjd.joepx
arajz-vpmijdmpdfjzdae..j..mep dFjdur.dtrcmrpycgd.fmjcxmphdyfjduelrp
fjdfrxdepojdcetjx--kqydrydufrydrdoe.ydyedfml.jci!dMdkjhrpdyedzjrcmsj
yfjdlrhpmyqxjdeidyfjdyr.vdMdfrxd.edcmhfycgd.jydAemzey dMydueqcx
peydkjdjr.gdyed.joqzjdyfjdrowqmyyrcdeidNrovdZjprqcx,dkgdrpgyfmph
.fezydeidyfjdyzqyf 

L dFrqyjyd.aevjdrhrmp,dumyfdrdajoqcmrzcgdkmymphdmpicjoymep:

"LrxrljdZjprqcxdyecxdq.dyfrydyfm.dxrhhjzdur.depdfjzdxzj..mphdyrkcj
epdyfjdpmhfydeidyfjdozmlj dKqydLrxrljdZjprqcxdm.drdleyfjz!dMydumcc
xeqkycj..dr.yepm.fdgeq,dZjprqcx,dkqydMdoep.mxjzdmydfmhfcgdcmvjcgdyfry
LrxrljdZjprqcxdur.dlm.yrvjp,drpxdyfry,dkgdmprxtjzyjpojdajzfra.,dgeq
frxdyrvjpdmydumyfdgeqdyedArzm. ddXeqkycj..dgeqdumccdoepyzrxmoydlj--"

Md.rudyfjdcrx'.dfrpxoqiijxdfrpx.docjpofdyfjl.jctj. ddYfjdajz.amzrymep
.yeexdeqydmpdkjrx.dqaepdfm.dkzeu,dr.dumyfdrd.qazjljdjiiezydfj
mpyjzzqayjxdL dFrqyjydmpdrdferz.jdtemoj:

"Md.frccdpeydoepyzrxmoydgeq dMydm.dae..mkcj "

Mydur.drd.yqajigmphdleljpy dLrîyzjdHze.íjzdze.jdyedfm.dijjy,
azeyj.ymph:

"Lgdocmjpydfr.dqpxjzhepjdrdoep.mxjzrkcjdpjzteq.d.yzrmp dMd.feqcx
um.fdmydaqydepdzjoezxdyfrydMdxedpeydoep.mxjzdfmldrp.ujzrkcjdiez
ufrydfjd.rg. "

Yfjdlrhm.yzryjdwqjccjxdfmldrphzmcg dIezdrdleljpydrdxeqkyd.jjljxdye
rzm.jdmpdfm.deupdlmpx dNrovdZjprqcxdfrxdrcle.ydetjzxepjdfm.darzy dFj
cjrpjxdiezurzx,drpxdhrsjxdrydyfjdazm.epjzd.jrzofmphcg 

"Xedgeqdiqccgdqpxjz.yrpx,dZjprqcx,dyfrydepdyfjdrp.ujz.dgeqdfrtj
hmtjpdljdMd.frccdfrtjdpedrcyjzprymtjdkqydyedoellmydgeqdiezdyzmrc?"

Nrov'.darcjdirojdicq.fjx dFjdceevjxd.yjrxmcgdkrov 

"L dFrqyjy,dMd.ujrzdyfrydMdxmxdpeydvmccdlgdiryfjz "

Kqydyfjdlrhm.yzryj'.dkzmjidleljpydeidxeqkydur.detjz ddFjdcrqhfjx
rd.fezy,dqpacjr.rpydcrqhf 

"Umyfeqydxeqky,dumyfeqydxeqky--yfjgdrzjdrcurg.dmppeojpy,deqz
azm.epjz.!dKgdgeqzdeupdleqyfdgeqdrzjdoepxjlpjx ddGeqdorpdeiijzdpe
xjijpoj,dpedrcmkm--epcgdrdljzjdr..jzymepdufmofdueqcxdpeydxjojmtjdr
krkj!--yfrydgeqdrzjdpeydhqmcyg dGeqdvmccjxdgeqzdiryfjz,dZjprqcx--
ozqjcdrpxdoeurzxcgdlqzxjz--iezdyfjd.rvjdeidlepjgdufmofdgeqdkjcmjtjx
ueqcxdoeljdyedgeqdrydfm.dxjryf ddGeqzdleyfjzdur.drpdrooj..ezgdriyjz
yfjdiroy dXeqkycj..,dmpdtmjudeidyfjdiroydyfryd.fjdroyjxdr.drdleyfjz,
yfjdoeqzy.dumccdjbyjpxdrpdmpxqchjpojdyedfjzdyfrydyfjgdumccdpeydrooezx
yedgeq dRpxdzmhfycgd.e!dGeqzdozmljdur.drdfezzmkcjdepj--yedkjdfjcx
mpdrkfezzjpojdkgdhex.drpxdljp!"dL dFrqyjydur.djpnegmphdfml.jci,
uezvmphdqadfm.dajzmex,d.yjjajxdmpdyfjd.ecjlpmygdeidyfjdleljpy,drpx
fm.deupdzecjdr.dzjazj.jpyrymtjdeidnq.ymoj d"Geqdvmccjx--rpxdgeqdlq.y
argdyfjdoep.jwqjpoj.deidgeqzdroymep dMd.ajrvdyedgeq,dpeydr.drdlrp,
kqydr.dNq.ymoj,djyjzprcdNq.ymoj,dufmof--"

L dFrqyjydur.dmpyjzzqayjx--yedfm.dmpyjp.jdrppegrpoj ddYfjdxeezdur.
aq.fjxdeajp 

"L dcjdnqhj,dL dcjdnqhj,"d.yrlljzjxdyfjdryyjpxrpy,d"yfjzjdm.drdcrxg
ufed.rg.--ufed.rg.--"

"Ufed.rg.dufry?"dozmjxdyfjdnq.ycgdmpojp.jxdlrhm.yzryj dd"Yfm.dm.
fmhfcgdmzzjhqcrz dMdiezkmxdmy--Mdrk.ecqyjcgdiezkmxdmy "

Kqydrd.cjpxjzdimhqzjdaq.fjxdyfjd.yrlljzmphdhjpxrzljdr.mxj dXzj..jx
rccdmpdkcrov,dumyfdrdcephdtjmcdyfrydfmxdfjzdiroj,d.fjdrxtrpojxdmpye
yfjdzeel 

Lgdfjrzydhrtjdrd.movjpmphdyfzek d.fjdfrxdoeljdyfjp!ddRccdlgdjiiezy.
ujzjdmpdtrmp dGjydMdoeqcxdpeydkqydrxlmzjdyfjdoeqzrhjdyfrydfrxdcjx
fjzdyedyrvjdyfm.d.yjad.edqpircyjzmphcg 

.fjdzrm.jxdfjzdtjmc--rpxdMdhr.ajx dIez,dyfeqhfdr.dcmvjdfjzdr.dyue
ajr.,dyfm.dhmzcdur.dpeydOmpxjzjccr!dEpdyfjdeyfjzdfrpx,dpeudyfrydM
.rudfjzdumyfeqydyfjdirmzdumhd.fjdfrxduezpdepdyfjd.yrhj,dMdzjoehpmsjx
fjzdr.dyfjdhmzcdeidyfjdafeyehzrafdmpdNrovdZjprqcx'.dzeel 

"GeqdrzjdyfjdNqhjdx'Mp.yzqoymep,dL dFrqyjy?"d.fjdwqjzmjx 

"Gj.,dkqydMdiezkmx--"

"Lgdprljdm.dKjccrdXqtjjp dMdum.fdyedhmtjdlg.jcidqadiezdyfjdlqzxjz
eidLz dZjprqcx "




26

MdZjojmtjdrdCjyyjz


"_LgdIzmjpx:_

"Geqdumccdvpeudrccdufjpdgeqdhjydyfm. dPeyfmphdyfrydMdorpd.rgdumcc
letjdKjccr d.fjdfr.dhepjdeqydyedhmtjdfjz.jcidqa dMdrldymzjxdeqy
umyfd.yzqhhcmph 

"GeqdumccdvpeudpeudyfrydMdxjojmtjxdgeq,dyfrydufjzjdgeqdhrtjdlj
yzq.ydMdzjarmxdgeqdumyfdcmj. dMydumccd.jjl,dajzfra.,dmpxjijp.mkcj
yedgeq,dkqydMd.feqcxdcmvj,dkjiezjdMdhedeqydeidgeqzdcmijdiezdjtjz,
yed.feudgeqdnq.ydfeudmydrccdorljdrkeqy dMidMdvpjudyfrydgeqdiezhrtj
lj,dmydueqcxdlrvjdcmijdjr.mjzdiezdlj dMydur.p'ydiezdlg.jcidMdxmx
my--yfry'.dyfjdepcgdyfmphdMdorpdaqydiezurzxdyed.rgdiezdlg.jci 

"M'ccdkjhmpdizeldyfjdxrgdMdljydgeqdmpdyfjdkerydyzrmpdizeldArzm. dM
ur.dqpjr.gdyfjpdrkeqydKjccr dd.fjdur.dnq.ydxj.ajzryjdrkeqydNrov
Zjprqcx,d.fj'xdfrtjdcrmpdxeupdepdyfjdhzeqpxdiezdfmldyedurcvdep,drpx
ufjpdfjdkjhrpdyedofrphj,drpxdyed.yeaduzmymphd.edeiyjp,d.fjdkjhrp
hjyymphdmpdrd.yryj d.fjdheydmydmpyedfjzdfjrxdyfrydfjdur.dvjjpdep
rpeyfjzdhmzc--rpxdeidoeqz.j,dr.dmydyqzpjxdeqydriyjzurzx.,d.fjdur.
wqmyjdzmhfydyfjzj d.fj'xdlrxjdqadfjzdlmpxdyedhedyedyfjmzdTmccr
rydLjzcmptmccj,drpxdyzgdrpxd.jjdNrov d.fjdvpjudMdur.drhrmp.ydmy,
rpxdyzmjxdyedhmtjdljdyfjd.cma dMdieqpxd.fjdur.dpeydepdyfjdyzrmpdry
Orcrm.,drpxdxjyjzlmpjxdMdueqcxdpeydhedepdyedJphcrpxdumyfeqydfjz 
M'xdrpdqpjr.gdijjcmphdyfryd.eljyfmphdruiqcdur.dhemphdyedfraajpdmi
Mdoeqcxp'ydazjtjpydmy 

"MdljydyfjdpjbydyzrmpdizeldArzm. d.fjdur.depdmy,drpxd.jydqaepdhemph
eqydyfjpdrpxdyfjzjdyedLjzcmptmccj ddMdrzhqjxdumyfdfjzdiezdrccdM
ur.duezyf,dkqydmydur.p'ydrpgdheex d.fjdur.drccd.yzqphdqadrpxd.jy
qaepdfrtmphdfjzdeupdurg dUjcc,dMdur.fjxdlgdfrpx.deidmy dM'xdxepj
rccdMdoeqcx!dMydur.dhjyymphdcryj ddMdujpydyedrpdfeyjc,drpxdKjccr
.yrzyjxdiezdLjzcmptmccj ddMd.ymccdoeqcxp'yd.frvjdeiidlgdijjcmphdei
ufrydyfjdkeev.dorccd'mlajpxmphdxm.r.yjz '

"Yfjdpjbydxrgdorlj--kqydpedKjccr d.fj'xdlrxjdrdxryjdumyfdljdyedljjy
rydyfjdfeyjc,dkqyd.fjdxmxp'ydvjjadmy dPed.mhpdeidfjzdrccdxrg dM
heydlezjdrpxdlezjdrpbmeq. dYfjpdorljdrpdjtjpmphdarajzdumyfdyfjdpju. 

"Mydur.druiqc!dMdoeqcxp'ydkjd.qzj,deidoeqz.j--kqydMdur.dyjzzmkcg
rizrmx dMdimhqzjxdmydeqydyfrydKjccrdfrxdljydArardZjprqcxdrpxdyecx
fmldrkeqydfjzdrpxdNrov,drpxdyfrydfj'xdmp.qcyjxdfjzdezd.eljyfmph
cmvjdyfry dUj'tjdkeyfdheydyjzzmkcgdwqmovdyjlajz. 

"Yfjpdrccdyfjdlr.vjxdiezjmhpjzdkq.mpj..dorljdeqy,drpxdMdkjhrpdye
ijjcdlezjdrydjr.j dKqydmyd.ymccduezzmjxdljdyfrydKjccrdfrxp'ydvjay
fjzdxryjdumyfdlj 

"Kgdyfjdpjbydlezpmph,dMdur.d.edzryycjxdyfrydM'xdnq.ydheydyedhe
rpxd.jjdufrydMdoeqcx dImz.ydyfmph,dMdzrpdqadrhrmp.ydgeq dGeqdvpeu
rccdyfryd d d dUfjpdMd.rudyfjdxjrxdlrp,dceevmphd.edcmvjdNrov,drpx
ujrzmphdNrov'.dirpogdetjzoery,dMdvpju!dRpxdyfjzjdur.dyfjdmxjpymorc
arajz-vpmij--umovjxdcmyycjdyfmph!--yfrydNrovdfrxdhmtjpdKjccr!dYjp
yedepjdmydfrxdfjzdimphjz-lrzv.depdmy dMdorp'ydfeajdyedjbacrmpdye
geqdyfjd.ezydeidfjcacj..dfezzezdeidyfrydleljpy dMdepcgd.rudepj
yfmphdocjrzcg--Mdlq.ydhjydfecxdeidyfrydxrhhjz,drpxdhjydzmhfydrurg
umyfdmydkjiezjdyfjgdieqpxdeqydmydur.dhepj dMdazjyjpxjxdyedirmpy,
rpxdufmc.ydgeqdujzjdrurgdhjyymphduryjzdMdyeevdyfjdyfmphdrpxdfmxdmy
rurgdmpdlgdxzj.. 

"MdyecxdgeqdyfrydMdur.d.yrgmphdrydyfjdFôyjcdxqdAfrzj,dkqydeidoeqz.j
zjrccgdMdlrxjdrdkjjdcmpjdkrovdyedOrcrm.,drpxdyfjpdepdyedJphcrpxdkg
yfjdimz.ydkery ddUfjpdujdujzjdmpdlmx-Ofrppjc,dMdxzeaajxdyfrydcmyycj
xjtmcdeidrdxrhhjzdmpyedyfjd.jr dYfjpdMdijcydMdoeqcxdkzjryfjdrhrmp 

"Kjccrdur.drydeqzdxmh.dmpdCepxep d.fjdceevjxdcmvjdpeyfmphdepdHex'.
jrzyf dMdyecxdfjzdufrydM'xdxepj,drpxdyfryd.fjdur.dazjyygd.rijdiezdyfj
ymljdkjmph d.fjd.yrzjxdrydlj,drpxdyfjpdkjhrpdcrqhfmphd d d dcrqhfmph
 d d dcrqhfmphd d d dmydur.dfezzmkcjdyedfjrzdfjz!dMdijcydyfrydyfj
kj.ydyfmphdyedxedur.dyedvjjadkq.g d.fj'xdhedlrxdmid.fjdfrxdymljdye
kzeexdepdufryd.fj'xdxepj dCqovmcgdujdheydrpdjphrhjljpydrydepoj 

"Rpxdyfjp,dMd.rudgeqdrpxdgeqzdizmjpx,duryofmphdq.dyfrydpmhfyd d d dM
ur.dizrpymo dGeqdlq.yd.q.ajoy,dezdgeqdueqcxp'ydfrtjdyzrovjxdq.
xeup dMdfrxdyedvpeudyfjduez.y,d.edMdiecceujxdgeq dMdur.dxj.ajzryj 
Rpxdyfjp,dkjiezjdM'xdfrxdymljdyed.rgdrpgyfmph,dMdyqlkcjxdyedmydyfry
mydur.d_lj_dgeqd.q.ajoyjx,dpeydKjccr!dEzdrydcjr.ydyfrydgeqdyfeqhfy
Md_ur._dKjccrd.mpojdM'xd.yecjpdyfjdxrhhjz 

"Mdum.f,dfepjg,dyfrydgeqdoeqcxd.jjdkrovdmpyedlgdlmpxdrydyfry
leljpyd d d dgeq'xdiezhmtjdlj,dajzfra.d d d dMdur.d.edizmhfyjpjx,
rpxdlqxxcjx,drpxdxj.ajzryj d d d dRccdMdoeqcxdhjydocjrzcgdur.dyfry
geqdueqcxdyzgdrpxd.rtjdlj dMdxmxp'ydvpeudufjyfjzdgeq'xdkjdumccmph
yed.rtjdfjzd d d dMdyfeqhfydtjzgdcmvjcgdpey--mydur.p'ydyfjd.rlj
yfmph!dRpxdMdoeqcxp'ydzm.vdmy!dKjccr'.dlgdyump--M'xdheydyedxedyfj
kj.ydiezdfjz d.edMdujpydepdcgmph d d d dMdijcydljrp--Mdijjcdljrp
.ymcc d d d dYfry'.drcc--jpeqhfdyee,dgeq'ccd.rg,dMdjbajoy dMdeqhfy
yedfrtjdyzq.yjxdgeq d d d dMidMdfrx--

"R.d.eepdr.dyfjdpju.dur.dmpdyfjdarajzdyfrydNrovdZjprqcxdfrxdkjjp
rzzj.yjx,dmydur.drccdqa dKjccrdueqcxp'ydjtjpdurmydyed.jjdfeudyfmph.
ujpy d d d 

"M'ldtjzgdymzjx d d d dMdorp'yduzmyjdrpgdlezj d d d "

.fjdfrxdkjhqpdyed.mhpdfjz.jcidOmpxjzjccr,dkqydfrxdoze..jxdyfrydeqy
rpxduzmyyjpdmp.yjrxd"XqcomjdXqtjjp "

Mydur.drpdmcc-uzmyyjp,dkcqzzjxdjam.ycjdkqydMdfrtjdvjaydmydye
yfm.dxrg 

Aemzeydur.dumyfdljdufjpdMdzjrxdmy dYfjd.fjjy.dijccdizeldlgdfrpx,
rpxdMdceevjxdroze..drydfml 

"Xmxdgeqdvpeudrccdyfjdymljdyfrydmydur.--yfjdeyfjz?"

"Gj.,dlgdizmjpx "

"Ufgdxmxdgeqdpeydyjccdlj?"

"Yedkjhmpdumyf,dMdoeqcxdfrzxcgdkjcmjtjdmydoepojmtrkcjdyfrydgeqdoeqcx
lrvjd.qofdrdlm.yrvj dGeqdfrxd.jjpdyfjdafeyehzraf dYfjd.m.yjz.drzj
tjzgdrcmvj,dkqydkgdpedljrp.dmporarkcjdeidxm.ymphqm.fljpy "

"Kqydyfjdirmzdfrmz?"

"Rdumh,duezpdiezdyfjd.rvjdeidrdamwqrpydoepyzr.ydepdyfjd.yrhj dM.
mydoepojmtrkcjdyfrydumyfdyump.depjd.feqcxdkjdirmzdrpxdepjdxrzv?"

"Ufgdxmxp'ydgeqdyjccdljdyfrydpmhfydrydyfjdfeyjcdmpdOetjpyzg?"

"Geqdujzjdzryfjzdfmhf-frpxjxdmpdgeqzdljyfex.,d_lepdrlm_,"d.rmx
Aemzeydxzgcg d"Geqdxmxdpeydhmtjdljdrdofrpoj "

"Kqydriyjzurzx.?"

"Rf,driyjzurzx.!dUjcc,dyedkjhmpdumyf,dMdur.dfqzydrydgeqzdurpydei
irmyfdmpdlj dRpxdyfjp,dMdurpyjxdyed.jjdufjyfjzdgeqz--ijjcmph.dueqcx
.yrpxdyfjdyj.ydeidymlj dMpdiroy,dufjyfjzdmydur.dcetj,dezdrdicr.fdmp
yfjdarp,dumyfdgeq ddMd.feqcxdpeydfrtjdcjiydgeqdcephdmpdgeqzdjzzez "

Mdpexxjx dFm.dyepjdur.dyeedriijoymepryjdiezdljdyedkjrzdzj.jpyljpy dM
ceevjxdxeupdepdyfjd.fjjy.deidyfjdcjyyjz d.qxxjpcgdMdamovjxdyfjldqa
izeldyfjdiceez,drpxdaq.fjxdyfjldroze..dyedfml 

"Zjrxdyfry,"dMd.rmx d"M'xdcmvjdgeqdye "

Fjdzjrxdmydyfzeqhfdmpd.mcjpoj,dyfjpdfjdceevjxdqadrydlj 

"Ufrydm.dmydyfryduezzmj.dgeq,dFr.ymph. "

Yfm.dur.dwqmyjdrdpjudleexdmpdAemzey dFm.dleovmphdlrppjzd.jjljx
crmxdwqmyjdr.mxj dMdur.drkcjdyed.rgdufrydMdurpyjxdumyfeqydyee
lqofdxmiimoqcyg 

".fjdxej.p'yd.rg--.fjdxej.p'yd.rg--ujcc,dpeydufjyfjzd.fjdorzj.diez
ljdezdpey!"

Aemzeydyqzpjxdkrovdyfjdarhj. 

"Mdyfmpvdgeqdrzjdlm.yrvjp,dFr.ymph. "

"Ufjzj?"dMdozmjx,dcjrpmphdiezurzxdjrhjzcg 

Aemzeyd.lmcjx 

".fjdyjcc.dgeqdyfrydmpdjtjzgdcmpjdeidyfjdcjyyjz,d_lepdrlm_ "

"KqydufjzjdrldMdyedimpxdfjz?dYfjzj'.dpedrxxzj..depdyfj
cjyyjz dYfjzj'.drdIzjpofd.yrla,dyfry'.drcc "

"Jbomyjdgeqz.jcidpey!dCjrtjdmydyedArardAemzey dMdorpdimpxdfjzdiez
geqdr.d.eepdr.dMdfrtjdimtjdcmyycjdlmpqyj.!"




27

NrovdZjprqcx'.d.yezg


"Oephzryqcrymep.,dL dNrov,"d.rmxdAemzey,duzmphmphdyfjdcrxdurzlcg
kgdyfjdfrpx 

GeqphdZjprqcxdfrxdoeljdyedq.dr.d.eepdr.dfjdur.dcmkjzryjx--kjiezj
.yrzymphdiezdLjzcmptmccjdyedzjnempdLrzyfjdrpxdfm.dleyfjz d.yepez
rooelarpmjxdfml dFm.dfjrzympj..dur.dmpd.yzephdoepyzr.ydyedyfj
crx'.durpdceev. ddMydur.dacrmpdyfrydyfjdkegdur.depdyfjdtjzhjdei
rdpjzteq.dkzjrvxeup dRcyfeqhfdxjcmtjzjxdizeldyfjdmlljxmryjdajzmc
yfrydur.dfrphmphdetjzdfml,dyfjdomzoql.yrpoj.deidfm.dzjcjr.jdujzj
yeedarmpiqcdyedcjydfmldijjcdiqccdzjcmji dFjd.lmcjxdleqzpiqccgdry
Aemzey,drpxd.rmxdmpdrdceudtemoj:

"Mdujpydyfzeqhfdmydyedazeyjoydfjz,drpxdpeudmy'.drccdpedq.j!"

"Geqdoeqcxdfrzxcgdjbajoydyfjdhmzcdyedroojaydyfjdazmojdeidgeqzdcmij,"
zjlrzvjxd.yepezdxzgcg d".fjdur.dkeqpxdyedoeljdiezurzxdufjpd.fjd.ru
geqdfjrxmphd.yzrmhfydiezdyfjdhqmcceympj "

"_Jfdlrdiem!_drpxdgeqdujzjdfjrxmphdiezdmydyee!"drxxjxdAemzey,dumyf
rd.cmhfydyumpvcj d"GeqdueqcxdfrtjdfrxdLrîyzjdHze.íjz'.dxjryfdizel
zrhjdepdgeqzdoep.omjpojdmidgeqdfrxdhepjdep "

"Fjdur.drdujccdljrpmphdr..,dMd.qaae.j,"d.rmxdNrov dd"Kqydfj
uezzmjxdljdfezzmkcg dGeqd.jj,dMdoeqcxp'ydtjzgdujccdyrvjdfmldmpye
lgdoepimxjpoj dKqy,dlgdHex!dufry'.dhemphdyedfraajpdrkeqydKjccr?"

"MidMdujzjdgeq,"d.rmxdAemzeydizrpvcg,d"Md.feqcxdpeydxm.yzj..dlg.jci
qpxqcg dYfjdIzjpofdOeqzy.drzjdtjzgdcjpmjpydyedgeqyfdrpxdkjrqyg,
rpxdyfjd_ozmljdar..meppjc_ dRdocjtjzdcrugjzdumccdlrvjdeqydrdhzjry
or.jdeidjbyjpqrymphdomzoql.yrpoj. dMydumccdpeydkjdacjr.rpydiezdgeq--"

"Mdxep'ydorzjdrkeqydyfry dGeqd.jj,dL dAemzey,dmpdrdurgdMd_xe_dijjc
hqmcygdeidlgdiryfjz'.dlqzxjz dKqydiezdlj,drpxdlgdjpyrphcjljpydumyf
yfm.dhmzc,dfjdueqcxdkjdrcmtjdrpxdujccdyexrg dRpxdyfjpdlgdoqz.jx
orzjcj..pj..dmpdyrvmphdrurgdyfjduzephdetjzoery dMdorp'ydfjcadijjcmph
zj.aep.mkcjdiezdfm.dxjryf dMydumccdfrqpydljdiezdjtjz!"

"Pe,dpe,"dMd.rmxd.eeyfmphcg 

"Eidoeqz.jdmy'.dfezzmkcjdyedljdyedyfmpvdyfrydKjccrdvmccjxdlgdiryfjz,"
zj.qljxdNrov,d"kqydM'xdyzjryjxdfjzd.frljiqccg dRiyjzdMdljydLrzyfj,
rpxdzjrcmsjxdM'xdlrxjdrdlm.yrvj,dMdeqhfydyedfrtjduzmyyjpdrpxdyecxdfjz
.edfepj.ycg ddKqydMdur.d.edyjzzmimjxdeidrdzeu,drpxdeidmy.doelmphdye
Lrzyfj'.djrz.,drpxdfjzdyfmpvmphdyfjzjdur.dlezjdmpdmydyfrpdyfjzjdjtjz
frxdkjjp,dyfry--ujcc,dMdur.drdoeurzx,drpxdujpydepdfeamphdyfjdyfmph
ueqcxdxmjdxeupdeidmy.jci dMdnq.ydxzmiyjx,dmpdiroy--peydzjrcmsmph
yfrydMdur.dxzmtmphdyfjdaeezdvmxdxj.ajzryj dMid.fj'xdzjrccgdvpmijx
lj,dr.d.fjdljrpydye,dMd.feqcxdfrtjdheydpedlezjdyfrpdlgdxj.jzy. 
Rpxdyfjdurgd.fj'.doeljdiezurzxdpeudm.dxeupzmhfydacqovg dM'xdfrtj
.yeexdyfjdzrovjy,dgeqdvpeu--qadyedyfjdjpx "

Fjdur.d.mcjpydiezdrdleljpydezdyue,drpxdyfjpdkqz.ydeqydepdrpeyfjz
yrov:

"Ufrydhjy.dljdm.dufgdyfjdHetjzpezd.feqcxdkjdurpxjzmphdrkeqydmp
qpxjzoceyfj.drpxdlgdetjzoerydrydyfrydymljdeidpmhfy dMd.qaae.jdfj'x
nq.ydhmtjpdyfjdiezjmhpdnefppmj.dyfjd.cma,drpxdlgdleyfjzdlq.ydfrtj
lrxjdrdlm.yrvjdrkeqydmy.dkjmphd2de'oceovdufjpdyfjgdorlj dEz--ez,
mydur.p'ydrccdrdizrljdqa,dur.dmy?dMdljrp,dlgdleyfjzdxmxp'y
yfmpv--oeqcxp'ydyfmpv--yfry--yfrydmydur.d_lj_?"

Aemzeydzjr..qzjxdfmldwqmovcg 

"Pe,dpe,dL dNrov dFrtjdpedijrz.depdyfryd.oezj dR.diezdyfjdzj.y,dM
umccdjbacrmpdmydyedgeqdepjdeidyfj.jdxrg. dMydm.dzryfjzdoqzmeq. dKqy
umccdgeqdzjoeqpydyedq.djbroycgdufrydxmxdeooqzdepdyfrydyjzzmkcj
jtjpmph?"

"Yfjzj'.dtjzgdcmyycjdyedyjcc dMdorljdizeldOfjzkeqzh,dr.dMdyecx
geq,dmpdezxjzdyed.jjdLrzyfjdkjiezjdhemphdyedyfjdeyfjzdjpxdeidyfj
uezcx dYfjdyzrmpdur.dcryj,drpxdMdxjomxjxdyedyrvjdyfjd.fezydoqy
roze..dyfjdhecidcmpv. dMdoeqcxdjr.mcgdhjydmpyedyfjdhzeqpx.deidyfj
TmccrdLrzhqjzmyjdizeldyfjzj ddMdfrxdpjrzcgdzjrofjxdyfjdacrojdufjp--"

Fjdarq.jxdrpxd.urcceujx 

"Gj.?"

"Mdfjrzxdrdyjzzmkcjdozg dMydur.p'ydceqx--rd.ezydeidofevjdrpx
hr.a--kqydmydizmhfyjpjxdlj dIezdrdleljpydMd.yeexdzeeyjxdyedyfj
.aey dYfjpdMdorljdzeqpxdyfjdoezpjzdeidrdkq.f dYfjzjdur.dleepcmhfy dM
.rudyfjdhzrtj,drpxdrdimhqzjdcgmphdirojdxeupurzx.,dumyfdrdxrhhjz
.ymovmphdmpdyfjdkrov dRpxdyfjp--rpxdyfjp--Mdceevjxdqadrpxd.rud_fjz_ 
.fjdur.dceevmphdrydljdr.dyfeqhfd.fjd.rudrdhfe.y--my'.dufryd.fjdlq.y
frtjdyfeqhfydljdrydimz.y--rccdjbazj..mepd.jjljxdizesjpdeqydeidfjz
irojdkgdfezzez dRpxdyfjpd.fjdhrtjdrdozg,drpxdyqzpjxdrpxdzrp "

Fjd.yeaajx,dyzgmphdyedlr.yjzdfm.djleymep 

"Rpxdriyjzurzx.?"dr.vjxdAemzeydhjpycg 

"Mdzjrccgdxep'ydvpeu dMd.yrgjxdyfjzjdiezdrdymlj,dxrsjx ddRpxdyfjp
MdzjrcmsjxdM'xdkjyyjzdhjydrurgdr.dir.ydr.dMdoeqcx ddMydxmxp'ydeooqz
yedljdyfrydyfjgdueqcxd.q.ajoydlj,dkqydMdur.drizrmxdeidkjmphdorccjx
qaepdyedhmtjdjtmxjpojdrhrmp.ydfjz dMdurcvjxdyed.y dKjrqtrm.dr.dM
yecxdgeq,drpxdheydrdorzdizeldyfjzjdkrovdyedOfjzkeqzh "

Rdvpeovdorljdrydyfjdxeez,drpxdrdarhjdjpyjzjxdumyfdrdyjcjhzrldufmofdfj
xjcmtjzjxdyed.yepez dFjdyezjdmydeajp ddYfjpdfjdheydqadizeldfm.d.jry 

"Lz. dZjprqcxdfr.dzjhrmpjxdoep.omeq.pj..,"dfjd.rmx 

"Rf!"dAemzeyd.azrphdyedfm.dijjy d"Cjydq.drccdhedyedLjzcmptmccj
rydepoj!"

Rdfqzzmjxdxjarzyqzjdur.dlrxjdiezyfumyf d.yepez,drydNrov'.dmp.yrpoj,
rhzjjxdyed.yrgdkjfmpxdrpxdxedrccdyfrydoeqcxdkjdxepjdiezdKjccr
Xqtjjp dAemzey,dNrovdZjprqcxdrpxdMd.jydeiidmpdyfjdZjprqcxdorz 

Yfjdzqpdyeevdnq.ydetjzdiezygdlmpqyj. dR.dujdraazerofjxdyfjdxeezurg
eidyfjdTmccrdLrzhqjzmyj,dNrovdZjprqcxd.feydrdwqj.ymepmphdhcrpoj
rydAemzey 

"Feudueqcxdmydkjdmidgeqdujpydepdimz.y--yedkzjrvdyfjdpju.dyedlg
leyfjzdyfrydMdrldizjj--"

"Ufmcjdgeqdkzjrvdmydmpdajz.epdyedLrxjlem.jccjdLrzyfj,djf?"dimpm.fjx
Aemzey,dumyfdrdyumpvcj d"Kqydgj.,dkgdrccdljrp.,dMdur.drkeqydye
azeae.jd.qofdrpdrzzrphjljpydlg.jci "

NrovdZjprqcxdxmxdpeydurmydiezdlezj d.yeaamphdyfjdorz,dfjd.uqph
fml.jcideqy,drpxdzrpdqadyfjdaryfdyedyfjdizepydxeez dUjdujpydepdmp
yfjdorzdyedyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj 

"Aemzey,"dMd.rmx,d"xedgeqdzjljlkjzdfeudujdrzzmtjxdfjzjdyfrydimz.y
xrg?dRpxdujzjdljydkgdyfjdpju.deidL ddZjprqcx'.dlqzxjz?"

"Rf!dgj.,dyzqcg dPeyd.edcephdrhe,djmyfjz dKqydufrydrdceydeidyfmph.
frtjdfraajpjxd.mpojdyfjp--j.ajomrccgdiezdgeq,d_lepdrlm_!"

"Aemzey,dufrydfrtjdgeqdxepjdrkeqydimpxmphdKjc--MdljrpdXqcomj?"

"Orcldgeqz.jci,dFr.ymph. dMdrzzrphjdjtjzgyfmph "

"Geq'zjdkjmphdrdazjomeq.dcephdymljdrkeqydmy,"dMdhzqlkcjx 

Aemzeydofrphjxdyfjd.qknjoy 

"Yfjpdyfjdkjhmppmph,dpeudyfjdjpx,"dfjdlezrcmsjx,dr.dujdzrph
yfjdkjcc d"Rpx,doep.mxjzjxdr.drdor.j,dyfjdjpxdm.dazeieqpxcg
qp.rym.iroyezg "

"Gj.,dmpxjjx,"dMd.mhfjx 

"Geqdrzjdzjhrzxmphdmydizeldyfjd.jpymljpyrcd.yrpxaempy,dFr.ymph. dYfry
ur.dpeydlgdljrpmph dUjdumccdfeajdyfrydLrxjlem.jccjdKjccrdumccdkj
xjrcydumyfdcjpmjpycg,drpxdriyjzdrccdNrovdZjprqcxdorppeydlrzzgdkeyf
yfjdhmzc. dMd.aevjdizeldrdazeij..meprcd.yrpxaempy dYfm.dm.dpeydr
ozmljdujccdezxjzjxdrpxdzjhqcrz,d.qofdr.drdxjyjoymtjdxjcmhfy.dmp dYfj
_lm.jdjpd.oèpj_dxj.mhpjxdkgdHjezhj.dOeppjrq,dyfrydmpxjjxdm.dajzijoy,
kqydyfjd_xépeqjljpy_--rf,dpe!dRdlrpdvmccjxdkgdroomxjpydmpdrdhmzc'.
imydeidrphjz--rf,dmpxjjx,dufrydezxjzdezdljyfexdm.dyfjzjdmpdyfry?"

Rpxdmpdyfjdlmx.ydeidrdimydeidcrqhfyjzdepdlgdarzydrydAemzey'.
ajoqcmrzmymj.,dyfjdxeezdur.deajpjxdkgdIzrpçem.j 

Aemzeydjbacrmpjxdyfrydfjdlq.yd.jjdLz. dZjprqcxdrydepoj,drpxdyfj
ecxduelrpdoepxqoyjxdfmldqa.yrmz. dMdzjlrmpjxdmpdyfjd_.rcep_ dMydur.
.eljdymljdkjiezjdAemzeydzjraajrzjx dFjdur.dceevmphdqpq.qrccgdhzrtj 

"_Teq.dtemcà_,dFr.ymph.!d_.rozédyeppjzzj_,dkqydyfjzjdrzjd.wqrcc.
rfjrx!"

"Ufrydxedgeqdljrp?"dMdozmjx 

"Mdueqcxdfrzxcgdfrtjdozjxmyjxdmy,"d.rmxdAemzeydyfeqhfyiqccg,
"kqydueljpdrzjdtjzgdqpjbajoyjx "

"FjzjdrzjdNrovdrpxdLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc,"dMdjbocrmljx,dceevmphdeqydei
yfjdumpxeu 

Aemzeydkeqpxjxdeqydeidyfjdzeel,drpxdljydyfjdgeqphdoeqacjdepdyfj
.yja.deqy.mxj 

"Xedpeydjpyjz dMydm.dkjyyjzdpey dGeqzdleyfjzdm.dtjzgdqa.jy "

"Mdvpeu,dMdvpeu,"d.rmxdNrovdZjprqcx d"Mdlq.ydhedqadyedfjzdrydepoj "

"Kqydpe,dMdyjccdgeq dMydm.dkjyyjzdpey "

"KqydLrzyfjdrpxdM--"

"Mpdrpgdor.j,dxedpeydyrvjdLrxjlem.jccjdumyfdgeq ddLeqpy,dmidgeqdlq.y,
kqydgeqdueqcxdkjdum.jdyedkjdhqmxjxdkgdlj "

Rdtemojdepdyfjd.yrmz.dkjfmpxdlrxjdq.drccd.yrzy 

"Mdyfrpvdgeqdiezdgeqzdheexdeiimoj.,dL dAemzey,dkqydMdumccdlrvjdlg
eupdum.fj.docjrz "

Ujd.yrzjxdmpdr.yepm.fljpy dXj.ojpxmphdyfjd.yrmz.,dcjrpmphdqaep
Céepmj'.drzl,dur.dLz. dZjprqcx,dfjzdfjrxd.ymccdkrpxrhjx dYfjdIzjpof
hmzcdur.dujjamph,drpxdmlacezmphdfjzdlm.yzj..dyedzjyqzpdyedkjx 

"Lrxrljdumccdvmccdfjz.jci dMydm.doepyzrzgdyedrccdyfjdxeoyez'.
ezxjz.!"

KqydLz. dZjprqcxdorljdep 

"Leyfjz,"dozmjxdNrov,d.yrzymphdiezurzx dKqydumyfdrdhj.yqzjd.fj
xzetjdfmldkrov 

"Mdrldpedleyfjzdeidgeqz.!dGeqdrzjdped.epdeidlmpj!ddIzeldyfm.dxrg
rpxdfeqzdMdzjpeqpojdgeq "

"Leyfjz,"dozmjxdyfjdcrx,d.yqajimjx 

Iezdrdleljpyd.fjd.jjljxdyedurtjz,dyedircyjzdkjiezjdyfjdrphqm.f
mpdfm.dtemoj dAemzeydlrxjdrdljxmrymphdhj.yqzj,dkqydmp.yrpycgd.fj
zjhrmpjxdoellrpxdeidfjz.jci 

"Geqzdiryfjz'.dkceexdm.depdgeqzdfjrx dGeqdrzjdlezrccgdhqmcygdei
fm.dxjryf dGeqdyfurzyjxdrpxdxjimjxdfmldetjzdyfm.dhmzc,drpxdkg
geqzdfjrzycj..dyzjryljpydeidrpeyfjzdhmzc,dgeqdkzeqhfydrkeqydfm.
xjryf dHedeqydizeldlgdfeq.j dYelezzeudMdmpyjpxdyedyrvjd.qofd.yja.
r.d.frccdlrvjdmydojzyrmpdyfrydgeqd.frccdpjtjzdyeqofdrdajppgdeidfm.
lepjg dLrvjdgeqzdurgdmpdyfjduezcxdr.dkj.ydgeqdorpdumyfdyfjdfjcadei
yfjdhmzcdufedm.dyfjdxrqhfyjzdeidgeqzdiryfjz'.dkmyyjzj.ydjpjlg!"

Rpxd.ceucg,darmpiqccg,d.fjdzjyzrojxdfjzdurgdqa.yrmz. 

Ujdujzjdrccdxqlkieqpxjx--yeyrccgdqpazjarzjxdiezd.qofdr
xjlep.yzrymep dNrovdZjprqcx,duezpdeqydumyfdrccdfjdfrxdrczjrxgdhepj
yfzeqhf,d.urgjxdrpxdpjrzcgdijcc ddAemzeydrpxdMdujpydwqmovcgdye
fm.dr..m.yrpoj 

"Fjdm.detjzxepj,"dlqzlqzjxdAemzeydyedLrzyfj dd"Ufjzjdorpdujdyrvj
fml?"

"Kqydfelj!dYedyfjdTmccrdLrzhqjzmyj dUjdumccdpqz.jdfml,dlgdleyfjz
rpxdM dLgdaeezdNrov!"

UjdheydyfjdcrxdyedyfjdTmccr,dufjzjdfjdxzeaajxdcmlacgdepdyedrdofrmz
mpdrd.jlm-xrsjxdoepxmymep dAemzeydijcydfm.dfjrxdrpxdfrpx. 

"Fjdfr.dijtjz dYfjdcephd.yzrmpdkjhmp.dyedyjcc dRpxdpeudyfm.d.feovdep
yeadeidmy dHjydfmldyedkjx,drpxdFr.ymph.drpxdMdumccd.qllepdrdxeoyez "

Rdxeoyezdur.d.eepdazeoqzjx dRiyjzdjbrlmpmphdyfjdarymjpy,dfjdhrtj
mydr.dfm.deampmepdyfrydmydur.d.mlacgdrdor.jdeidpjztjd.yzrmp dUmyf
ajzijoydzj.ydrpxdwqmjy,dyfjdcrxdlmhfydkjdrcle.ydzj.yezjxdkgdyfj
pjbydxrg,dkqy,dmidjbomyjx,dyfjzjdur.drdofrpojdeidkzrmpdijtjz dMy
ueqcxdkjdrxtm.rkcjdiezd.eljdepjdyed.mydqadrccdpmhfydumyfdfml 

Imprccg,dfrtmphdxepjdrccdujdoeqcx,dujdcjiydfmldmpdyfjdofrzhjdei
Lrzyfjdrpxdfjzdleyfjz,drpxd.jydeqydiezdyfjdyeup dMydur.dar.ydeqz
q.qrcdfeqzdeidxmpmph,drpxdujdujzjdkeyfdirlm.fjx dYfjdimz.ydzj.yrqzrpy
ujdorljdyedr..qrhjxdyfjdarph.deidfqphjzdumyfdrpdjbojccjpyd_eljcjyyj_,
rpxdrpdjwqrccgdjbojccjpyd_jpyzjoôyj_dyediecceu 

"Rpxdpeudiezdwqrzyjz.diezdyfjdpmhfy,"d.rmxdAemzey,dufjpdrydcjphyf
_oriédpemz_dfrxdoelacjyjxdyfjdljrc d".frccdujdyzgdeqzdecxdizmjpx,
yfjdFôyjcdxj.dKrmp.?"

Ujdyzrojxdeqzd.yja.dyfjzjdumyfeqydlezjdrxe dGj.,dLj..mjqz.doeqcxdkj
rooellexryjxdumyfdyuedheexdzeel.detjzceevmphdyfjd.jr dYfjpdAemzey
r.vjxdrdwqj.ymepdufmofd.qzazm.jxdlj 

"Fr.drpdJphcm.fdcrxg,dLm..dZekmp.ep,drzzmtjx?"

"Gj.,dlep.mjqz d.fjdm.dmpdyfjdcmyycjd_.rcep_ "

"Rf!"

"Aemzey,"dMdozmjx,dvjjamphdarojdumyfdfmldr.dfjdurcvjxdrcephdyfj
oezzmxez,d"ufedepdjrzyfdm.dLm..dZekmp.ep?"

Aemzeydkjrljxdvmpxcgdepdlj 

"Mydm.dyfrydMdfrtjdrzzrphjxdgeqdrdlrzzmrhj,dFr.ymph. "

"Kqy,dMd.rg--"

"Krf!"d.rmxdAemzey,dhmtmphdljdrdizmjpxcgdaq.fdetjzdyfjdyfzj.fecx
eidyfjdxeez d"XedgeqdyfmpvdMdum.fdyedyzqlajydrceqxdmpdLjzcmptmccj
yfjdprljdeidXqtjjp?"

Mydur.dmpxjjxdOmpxjzjccrdufedze.jdyedhzjjydq. dMdyeevdfjzdfrpx.dmp
keyfdeidlmpj dLgdjgj.d.rmxdyfjdzj.y 

Aemzeydocjrzjxdfm.dyfzery 

"_Lj.djpirpy._,"dfjd.rmx,d"iezdyfjdleljpydujdfrtjdpedymljdiez
.jpymljpy dYfjzjdm.duezvdrfjrxdeidq. dLrxjlem.jccj,dujzjdgeqdrkcj
yedxedufrydMdr.vjxdgeq?"

Mpdzj.aep.j,dOmpxjzjccrdyeevdizeldfjzdkrhdrpdeknjoyduzraajxdqadmp
arajz,drpxdfrpxjxdmyd.mcjpycgdyedAemzey ddYfjdcryyjzdqpuzraajxdmy dM
hrtjdrd.yrzy--iezdmydur.dyfjdrjzeacrpjdxrhhjzdufmofdMdqpxjz.yeex
.fjdfrxdor.ydmpyedyfjd.jr d.yzrphj,dfeudzjcqoyrpydueljpdrcurg.drzj
yedxj.yzegdyfjdle.ydoelazelm.mphdeideknjoy.drpxdxeoqljpy.!

"_Yzè.dkmjp,dlepdjpirpy_,"d.rmxdAemzey d"Mdrldacjr.jxdumyfdgeq dHe
peudrpxdzj.ydgeqz.jci dFr.ymph.dfjzjdrpxdMdfrtjduezvdyedxe dGeq
.frccd.jjdfmldyelezzeu "

"Ufjzjdrzjdgeqdhemph?"dr.vjxdyfjdhmzc,dfjzdjgj.dumxjpmph 

"Geqd.frccdfjrzdrccdrkeqydmydyelezzeu "

"Kjorq.jdufjzjtjzdgeq'zjdhemph,dM'ldoelmphdyee "

"Kqydlrxjlem.jccj--"

"M'ldoelmphdyee,dMdyjccdgeq "

Aemzeydzjrcmsjxdyfrydmydur.diqymcjdyedrzhqjdiqzyfjz dFjdhrtjdmp 

"Oeljdyfjp,dlrxjlem.jccj dKqydmydumccdpeydkjdrlq.mph ddMpdrcc
azekrkmcmygdpeyfmphdumccdfraajp "

Yfjdhmzcdlrxjdpedzjacg 

Yujpygdlmpqyj.dcryjzdujd.jydiezyf dMydur.dwqmyjdxrzvdpeu,drdoce.j,
eaazj..mtjdjtjpmph dAemzeydcjxdyfjdurgdeqydeidyfjdyeupdmpdyfj
xmzjoymepdeidyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj dKqydufjpdfjdzjrofjxdyfjdTmccr
Lrzhqjzmyjdfjdarq.jx 

"Md.feqcxdcmvjdyedr..qzjdlg.jcidyfrydrccdhej.dujccdumyfdNrov
Zjprqcx dOeljdumyfdlj,dFr.ymph. dLrxjlem.jccjdumccdajzfra.dzjlrmp
eqy.mxj dLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdlmhfyd.rgd.eljyfmphdufmofdueqcxdueqpxdfjz "

Ujdqpcryofjxdyfjdhryj,drpxdurcvjxdqadyfjdaryf dR.dujdujpydzeqpx
yedyfjd.mxjdeidyfjdfeq.j,dMdxzjudAemzey'.dryyjpymepdyedrdumpxeu
epdyfjdimz.ydiceez dYfzeupd.frzacgdepdyfjdkcmpxdur.dyfjdazeimcjdei
LrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc 

"Rf!"d.rmxdAemzey d"Mdimhqzjdyedlg.jcidyfrydyfrydm.dyfjdzeeldufjzj
ujd.frccdimpxdNrovdZjprqcx "

LrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdeajpjxdyfjdxeezdyedq. d.fjdjbacrmpjxdyfrydNrovdur.
lqofdyfjd.rlj,dkqydajzfra.dujdueqcxdcmvjdyed.jjdiezdeqz.jctj. d.fj
cjxdq.dqa.yrmz.drpxdmpyedyfjdkjxzeel dLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmcdur.
jlkzemxjzmphdkgdrdyrkcjdumyfdrdcrladepdmy d.fjdaqydfjzdimphjzdye
fjzdcma.dr.dujdjpyjzjx 

NrovdZjprqcxdur.d.cjjamphdrpdqpjr.gdimyiqcd.cjja,dfm.dfjrxdyqzpmph
izeld.mxjdyed.mxj,drpxdfm.dirojd.ymccdqpxqcgdicq.fjx 

"M.dyfjdxeoyezdoelmphdrhrmp?"dr.vjxdAemzeydmpdrdufm.ajz 

"Peydqpcj..dujd.jpx dFjdm.d.cjjamph--yfrydm.dyfjdhzjrydyfmph d_Lrlrp_
lrxjdfmldrdym.rpj "

.fjd.rydxeupdrhrmpdumyfdfjzdjlkzemxjzgdr.dujdcjiydyfjdzeel dLrxrlj
Xrqkzjqmcdrooelarpmjxdq.dxeupdyfjd.yrmz. d.mpojdMdfrxdcjrzpjxdeidfjz
ar.ydfm.yezg,dMdtmjujxdyfm.duelrpdumyfdmpozjr.jxdmpyjzj.y d.fjd.yeex
yfjzjdumyfdfjzdjgj.dor.ydxeup,dyfjd.rljdtjzgdirmpydjpmhlrymorcd.lmcj
yfrydMdzjljlkjzjxdepdfjzdcma. dRpxd.qxxjpcgdMdijcydrizrmxdeidfjz,
r.depjdlmhfydijjcdrizrmxdeidrdkjrqymiqcdaem.epeq.d.prvj 

"Mdfeajdujdfrtjdpeydxjzrphjxdgeq,dlrxrlj,"d.rmxdAemzeydaecmyjcgdr.
.fjdeajpjxdyfjdxeezdiezdq.dyedar..deqy 

"Peydrydrcc,dlep.mjqz "

"Kgdyfjdurg,"d.rmxdAemzey,dr.dyfeqhfd.yzqovdkgdrpdriyjzyfeqhfy,
"L d.yepezdfr.dpeydkjjpdmpdLjzcmptmccjdyexrg,dfr.dfj?"

Mdoeqcxdpeydrydrccdiryfeldyfjdaempydeidyfm.dwqj.ymepdufmofdMdujcc
vpjudyedkjdljrpmphcj..dr.dirzdr.dAemzeydur.doepojzpjx 

LrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdzjacmjxdwqmyjdoelae.jxcg:

"PeydyfrydMdvpeudei "

"Fjdfr.dpeydfrxdrpdmpyjztmjudumyfdLz. dZjprqcx?"

"Feud.feqcxdMdvpeudyfry,dlep.mjqz?"

"Yzqj,"d.rmxdAemzey d"Mdyfeqhfydgeqdlmhfydfrtjd.jjpdfmldoelmphdez
hemph,dyfrydm.drcc dHeexdpmhfy,dlrxrlj "

"Ufg--"dMdkjhrp 

"Ped'_ufg._,'dFr.ymph. dYfjzjdumccdkjdymljdiezdyfrydcryjz "

UjdzjnempjxdOmpxjzjccrdrpxdlrxjdeqzdurgdzramxcgdmpdyfjdxmzjoymepdei
yfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj dAemzeydceevjxdetjzdfm.d.feqcxjzdepojdrydyfj
cmhfyjxdumpxeudrpxdyfjdazeimcjdeidLrzyfjdr.d.fjdkjpydetjzdfjzduezv 

"Fjdm.dkjmphdhqrzxjxdrydrccdjtjpy.,"dfjdlqyyjzjx 

RzzmtjxdrydyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj,dAemzeydyeevdqadfm.d.yrpxdkjfmpx
.eljdkq.fj.dyedyfjdcjiydeidyfjdxzmtj,dufjzj,dufmc.ydjpnegmphdr
heexdtmjudeqz.jctj.,dujdujzjdoelacjyjcgdfmxxjpdizeld.mhfy dYfj
Tmccrdmy.jcidur.dmpdyeyrcdxrzvpj..,djtjzgkexgdur.dumyfeqydxeqky
mpdkjxdrpxdr.cjja dUjdujzjdrcle.ydmlljxmryjcgdqpxjzdyfjdumpxeudei
Lz. dZjprqcx'.dkjxzeel,dufmofdumpxeu,dMdpeymojx,dur.deajp dMyd.jjljx
yedljdyfrydmydur.dqaepdyfm.d.aeydyfrydAemzey'.djgj.dujzjdimbjx 

"Ufrydrzjdujdhemphdyedxe?"dMdufm.ajzjx 

"Uryof "

"Kqy--"

"Mdxedpeydjbajoydrpgyfmphdyedfraajpdiezdrydcjr.ydrpdfeqz,dazekrkcg
yuedfeqz.,dkqydyfj--"

Kqydfm.duezx.dujzjdmpyjzzqayjxdkgdrdcephdyfmpdxzrupdozg:

"Fjca!"

Rdcmhfydicr.fjxdqadmpdyfjd.joepxdiceezdzeeldepdyfjdzmhfydfrpxd.mxj
eidyfjdfeq.j dYfjdozgdorljdizeldyfjzj ddRpxdjtjpdr.dujduryofjx
yfjzjdorljdrd.frxeudepdyfjdkcmpxdr.deidyuedajeacjd.yzqhhcmph 

"_Lmccjdyjpjzzj.!_"dozmjxdAemzey d".fjdlq.ydfrtjdofrphjxdfjzdzeel!"

Xr.fmphdiezurzx,dfjdkryyjzjxdumcxcgdepdyfjdizepydxeez dYfjpdzq.fmph
yedyfjdyzjjdmpdyfjdiceujz-kjx,dfjd.urzljxdqadmydumyfdyfjdrhmcmyg
eidrdory dMdiecceujxdfml,dr.dumyfdrdkeqpxdfjd.azrphdmpdyfzeqhfdyfj
eajpdumpxeu ddCeevmphdetjzdlgd.feqcxjz,dMd.rudXqcomjdzjrofmphdyfj
kzrpofdkjfmpxdlj 

"Yrvjdorzj,"dMdjbocrmljx 

"Yrvjdorzjdeidgeqzdhzrpxleyfjz!"dzjyezyjxdyfjdhmzc dd"Yfm.dm.
ofmcx'.dacrgdyedlj "

Aemzeydfrxdzq.fjxdyfzeqhfdyfjdjlaygdzeeldrpxdur.daeqpxmphdepdyfj
xeezdcjrxmphdmpyedyfjdoezzmxez 

"Ceovjxdrpxdkecyjxdepdyfjdeqy.mxj,"dfjdhzeucjx dd"Rpxdmydumccdyrvj
ymljdyedkqz.ydmydeajp "

Yfjdozmj.diezdfjcadujzjdhjyymphdpeymojrkcgdirmpyjz dMd.rudxj.armz
mpdAemzey'.djgj. dFjdrpxdMdyehjyfjzdaqydeqzd.feqcxjz.dyedyfjdxeez 

Ompxjzjccr'.dtemoj,dorcldrpxdxm.ar..mepryj,dorljdizeldyfjdumpxeu:

"Geq'ccdkjdyeedcryj,dMdhqj..dM'ldyfjdepcgdepjdufedorpdxedrpgyfmph "

KjiezjdMdoeqcxdletjdrdfrpxdyed.yeadfjz,d.fjdraajrzjxdyedcjradqaurzx
mpyed.aroj dMdzq.fjxdrpxdceevjxdeqy dYedlgdfezzez,dMd.rudfjzdfrphmph
kgdfjzdfrpx.dizeldyfjdzeei,dazeajccmphdfjz.jcidrcephdkgdnjzv.dmp
yfjdxmzjoymepdeidyfjdcmhfyjxdumpxeu 

"Heexdfjrtjp.!d.fj'ccdkjdvmccjx,"dMdozmjx 

"Geqdiezhjy d.fj'.drdazeij..meprcdrozekry,dFr.ymph. ddMydur.dyfj
azetmxjpojdeidyfjdheexdHexdyfrydlrxjdfjzdmp.m.ydepdoelmphdumyfdq.
yepmhfy dMdepcgdazrgdyfryd.fjdlrgdkjdmpdymlj dRf!"

Rdozgdeidrk.ecqyjdyjzzezdiceryjxdeqydepdyedyfjdpmhfydr.dyfjdhmzc
xm.raajrzjxdyfzeqhfdyfjdzmhfy-frpxdumpxeu;dyfjpdmpdOmpxjzjccr'.
ocjrzdyepj.dorljdyfjduezx.:

"Pe,dgeqdxep'y!dM'tjdheydgeq--rpxdlgduzm.y.drzjdnq.ydcmvjd.yjjc "

Rydyfjd.rljdleljpydyfjdxeezdeideqzdazm.epdur.deajpjxdorqymeq.cgdkg
Izrpçem.j dAemzeydkzq.fjxdfjzdr.mxjdqpojzjlepmeq.cgdrpxdzq.fjx
xeupdyfjdar..rhjdyedufjzjdyfjdeyfjzdlrmx.dujzjdhzeqajxdzeqpxdyfj
iqzyfjzdxeez 

"My'.dceovjxdepdyfjdmp.mxj,dlep.mjqz "

Yfjzjdur.dyfjd.eqpxdeidrdfjrtgdirccdumyfmp dRiyjzdrdleljpydezdyue
yfjdvjgdyqzpjxdrpxdyfjdxeezd.uqphd.ceucgdeajp dOmpxjzjccr,dtjzgdarcj,
kjovepjxdq.dmp 

".fjdm.d.rij?"dxjlrpxjxdAemzey 

"Gj.,dMdur.dnq.ydmpdymlj d.fjdur.djbfrq.yjx "

Lz. dZjprqcxdur.dfrcid.myymph,dfrcidcgmphdepdyfjdkjx dd.fjdur.
hr.amphdiezdkzjryf 

"Pjrzcgd.yzrphcjxdlj,"d.fjdlqzlqzjxdarmpiqccg ddYfjdhmzcdamovjxdqa
.eljyfmphdizeldyfjdiceezdrpxdfrpxjxdmydyedAemzey dMydur.drdzeccjx
qadcrxxjzdeid.mcvdzeaj,dtjzgdimpjdkqydwqmyjd.yzeph 

"Rdhjyrurg,"d.rmxdAemzey d"Kgdyfjdumpxeu,dufmc.ydujdujzjdkryyjzmph
rydyfjdxeez dUfjzjdm.--yfjdeyfjz?"

Yfjdhmzcd.yeexdr.mxjdrdcmyycjdrpxdaempyjx dEpdyfjdhzeqpxdcrgdr
imhqzjduzraajxdmpd.eljdxrzvdlryjzmrcdrdiecxdeidufmofdfmxdyfjdiroj 

"Xjrx?"

.fjdpexxjx 

"Mdyfmpvd.e "

"Fjrxdlq.ydfrtjd.yzqovdyfjdlrzkcjdijpxjz "

"Kqydufedm.dmy?"dMdozmjx 

"YfjdlqzxjzjzdeidL dZjprqcx,dFr.ymph. dRpxdyfjdueqcx-kjdlqzxjzjz
eidLrxrljdZjprqcx "

Aqsscjxdrpxdqpoelazjfjpxmph,dMdvpjcydxeup,drpxdcmiymphdyfjdiecxdei
oceyf,dceevjxdmpyedyfjdxjrxdkjrqymiqcdirojdeidLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc!




28

Neqzpjg'.dJpx


Mdfrtjdoepiq.jxdljlezmj.deidyfjdiqzyfjzdjtjpy.deidyfrydpmhfy dAemzey
.jjljxdxjridyedlgdzjajryjxdwqj.ymep. ddFjdur.djphrhjxdmpdetjzufjclmph
Izrpçem.jdumyfdzjazerofj.diezdpeydfrtmphdyecxdfmldeidLz. dZjprqcx'.
ofrphjdeid.cjjamphdwqrzyjz. 

Mdorqhfydfmldkgdyfjd.feqcxjz,dxjyjzlmpjxdyedryyzroydfm.dryyjpymep,
rpxdlrvjdlg.jcidfjrzx 

"Kqydgeqd_lq.y_dfrtjdvpeup,"dMdjbae.yqcryjx d"Geqdujzjdyrvjpdqadye
.jjdfjzdyfm.driyjzpeep "

Aemzeydxjmhpjxdyedryyjpxdyedljdiezdrdkzmjidleljpy 

".fjdfrxdkjjpdufjjcjxdepdrd.eirdmpyedyfjdlmxxcjdzeel--fjzdkeqxemz,"
fjdjbacrmpjx 

"Kqy,dlep.mjqz,"dozmjxdIzrpçem.j,d"Lrxrljdofrphjxdfjzdzeeldrcle.y
mlljxmryjcgdriyjzdyfjdozmlj!ddYfjdr..eomrymep.--yfjgdujzjdyee
xm.yzj..mph!"

"Yfjpdufgdur.dMdpeydyecx,"dteomijzryjxdAemzey,d.yzmvmphdyfj
yrkcj,drpxduezvmphdfml.jcidmpyedrdimz.y-ocr..dar..mep dd"Mdxjlrpx
geq--ufg--ur.--M--pey--yecx?dGeqdrzjdrpdecxduelrpdoelacjyjcg
mlkjomcj!dRpxdCéepmjdrpxdXjpm.jdrzjdpedkjyyjz dRccdeidgeqdrzjdyzmacj
mxmey.!dGeqzd.yqamxmygdfr.dpjrzcgdorq.jxdyfjdxjryfdeidgeqzdlm.yzj.. 
Kqydiezdyfm.doeqzrhjeq.dofmcx--"

Fjdkzevjdeii,drpx,dxrzymphdroze..dyfjdzeeldyedufjzjdyfjdhmzcdur.
kjpxmphdetjzdlmpm.yjzmphdyedLz. dZjprqcx,dfjdjlkzrojxdfjzdumyf
Hrccmodijzteqz--.cmhfycgdyedlgdrppegrpoj 

Mdur.drzeq.jxdizeldlgdoepxmymepdeidljpyrcdiehdkgdrd.frzadoellrpx
izeldAemzeydyedijyofdyfjdxeoyezdmlljxmryjcgdepdLz. dZjprqcx'.
kjfrci dRiyjzdyfry,dMdlmhfyd.qllepdyfjdaecmoj dRpxdfjdrxxjx,dye
oelacjyjdlgdxqxhjep:

"Mydumccdfrzxcgdkjduezyfdgeqzdufmcjdyedzjyqzpdfjzj dMd.frccdkj
yeedkq.gdyedryyjpxdyedgeq,drpxdeidLrxjlem.jccjdfjzjdMdlrvjdr
_hrzxj-lrcrx_ "

MdzjymzjxdumyfdufrydxmhpmygdMdoeqcxdoellrpx dFrtmphdxepjdlg
jzzrpx.,dMdzjyqzpjxdyedyfjdfeyjc dMdqpxjz.yeexdpjbydyedpeyfmphdei
ufrydfrxdeooqzzjx dYfjdjtjpy.deidyfjdpmhfyd.jjljxdirpyr.ymodrpx
mlae..mkcj dPekexgdueqcxdrp.ujzdlgdwqj.ymep. dPekexgdfrxd.jjljxdye
fjrzdyfjl ddRphzmcg,dMdicqphdlg.jcidmpyedkjx,drpxd.cjaydyfjd.cjja
eidyfjdkjumcxjzjxdrpxdqyyjzcgdjbfrq.yjx 

Mdruevjdyedimpxdyfjd.qpdaeqzmphdmpdyfzeqhfdyfjdeajpdumpxeu.drpx
Aemzey,dpjrydrpxd.lmcmph,d.myymphdkj.mxjdyfjdkjx 

"_Jpimp_dgeqdurvj!dKqydmydm.dyfrydgeqdrzjdrdirleq.d.cjjajz,
Fr.ymph.!dXedgeqdvpeudyfrydmydm.dpjrzcgdjcjtjpde'oceov?"

Mdhzerpjxdrpxdaqydrdfrpxdyedlgdfjrx 

"Mdlq.ydfrtjdkjjpdxzjrlmph,"dMd.rmx d"Xedgeqdvpeu,dMdroyqrccg
xzjrlydyfrydujdieqpxdLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc'.dkexgdmpdLz. dZjprqcx'.dzeel,
rpxdyfrydgeqdxjocrzjxdfjzdyedfrtjdlqzxjzjxdLz dZjprqcx?"

"Geqdujzjdpeydxzjrlmph dRccdyfrydm.dwqmyjdyzqj "

"KqydKjccrdXqtjjpdvmccjxdLz dZjprqcx?"

"Ef,dpe,dFr.ymph.,d.fjdxmxdpey!d.fjd.rmxd.fjdxmx--gj.--kqydyfry
ur.dyed.rtjdyfjdlrpd.fjdcetjxdizeldyfjdhqmcceympj "

"Ufry?"

"ZjljlkjzdNrovdZjprqcx'.d.yezg dYfjgdkeyfdrzzmtjxdepdyfjd.ojpjdry
yfjd.rljdmp.yrpy,drpxdjrofdyeevdyfjdeyfjzdyedkjdyfjdajzajyzryezdei
yfjdozmlj dYfjdhmzcd.yrzj.drydfmldmpdfezzez,drpxdyfjpdumyfdrdozg
zq.fj.drurg dKqy,dufjpd.fjdfjrz.dyfrydyfjdozmljdfr.dkjjpdkzeqhfy
feljdyedfml,d.fjdorppeydkjrzdmy,drpxdoelj.diezurzxdyedrooq.jdfjz.jci
rpxd.rtjdfmldizeldojzyrmpdxjryf "

Aemzeydcjrpjxdkrovdmpdfm.dofrmz,drpxdkzeqhfydyfjdyma.deidfm.dimphjz.
yehjyfjzdmpdirlmcmrzd.ygcj 

"Yfjdor.jdur.dpeydwqmyjd.rym.iroyezgdyedlj,"dfjdek.jztjx
nqxmomrccg d"RccdrcephdMdur.d.yzephcgdqpxjzdyfjdmlazj..mepdyfryduj
ujzjdxjrcmphdumyfdrdoecx-kceexjxdrpxdazjljxmyryjxdozmljdoellmyyjx
kgd.eljdepjdufedfrxdkjjpdoepyjpyjxd(tjzgdocjtjzcg)dumyfdq.mph
L dZjprqcx'.deupdacrp.diezdyfzeumphdyfjdaecmojdeiidyfjdyzrov 
Yfjdhzjrydozmlmprcd(r.dgeqdlrgdzjljlkjzdlgdzjlrzvmphdyedgeqdepoj)
m.drcurg.d.qazjljcgd.mlacj "

Mdpexxjx 

"Peu,dyed.qaaezydyfm.dyfjezg,dyfjdozmlmprcdlq.ydfrtjdkjjp
iqccgdoehpmsrpydeidLz dZjprqcx'.dacrp. dYfrydcjrx.dq.dyedLrxrlj
Zjprqcx dKqydiroy.dirmcdyed.qaaezydrpgdyfjezgdeidfjzdhqmcy dM.
yfjzjdrpgdepjdjc.jdufedlmhfydfrtjdvpeupdeidyfjl?dGj. dIzeldLrzyfj
Xrqkzjqmc'.deupdcma.dujdfrtjdyfjdrxlm..mepdyfryd.fjdetjzfjrzx
L dZjprqcx'.dwqrzzjcdumyfdyfjdyzrla dMid.fjdoeqcxdetjzfjrzdyfry,
yfjzjdm.dpedzjr.epdufgd.fjd.feqcxdpeydfrtjdfjrzxdjtjzgyfmphdjc.j,
j.ajomrccgdmidL drpxdLrxrljdZjprqcxdujzjdmlazqxjpydjpeqhfdyedxm.oq..
yfjmzdacrp.d.myymphdepdyfjdkjpof dZjljlkjzdfeudjr.mcgdgeqdetjzfjrzx
Lrzyfj'.doeptjz.rymepdumyfdNrovdZjprqcxdizeldyfryd.aey "

"Kqydufrydae..mkcjdleymtjdoeqcxdLrzyfjdfrtjdiezdlqzxjzmph
Lz dZjprqcx?"dMdrzhqjx 

"Ufrydleymtj?dLepjg!dL dZjprqcxdur.drdlmccmeprmzjd.jtjzrcdymlj.
etjz,drpxdrydfm.dxjryfd(ezd.ed.fjdrpxdNrovdkjcmjtjx)dfrcidyfrydtr.y
iezyqpjdueqcxdar..dyedfm.d.ep dCjydq.dzjoep.yzqoydyfjd.ojpjdizel
yfjd.yrpxaempydeidLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc 

"LrzyfjdXrqkzjqmcdetjzfjrz.dufrydar..j.dkjyujjpdZjprqcxdrpx
fm.dumij d.edirzdfjdfr.dkjjpdrdpmojdcmyycjd.eqzojdeidmpoeljdye
yfjdXrqkzjqmcdleyfjzdrpxdxrqhfyjz,dkqydpeudfjdazeae.j.dyedj.oraj
izeldyfjmzdyemc. dRydimz.y,dae..mkcg,dfjzdmxjrdm.dyedazjtjpydyfry
j.oraj dKqydrdkecxjzdmxjrdyrvj.dmy.dacroj,drpxdepjdyfrydirmc.dye
fezzmigdyfjdxrqhfyjzdeidNjrppjdKjzecxg!dRydazj.jpydL dZjprqcxd.yrpx.
mpjbezrkcgdmpdyfjdurgdeidfjzdlrzzmrhjdumyfdNrov ddMidyfjdcryyjz
xjimj.dfm.diryfjz,dfjdumccdkjdrdarqajz--ufmofdm.dpeydrydrccdyedyfj
lmpxdeidLrxjlem.jccjdLrzyfj dMpdiroy,dMdxeqkydmid.fjdfr.djtjzdorzjx
rd.yzrudiezdNrovdZjprqcx d.fjdorpd.mlqcryjdjleymep,dkqydmpdzjrcmyg
.fjdm.deidyfjd.rljdoecx,dorcoqcrymphdygajdr.dfjzdleyfjz dMdxeqky,
yee,dufjyfjzd.fjdur.dzjrccgdtjzgd.qzjdeidfjzdfecxdetjzdyfjdkeg'.
riijoymep. d.fjdfrxdxrsscjxdrpxdoraymtryjxdfml,dkqyd.jarzryjx
izeldfjz,dr.dfm.diryfjzdoeqcxd.edjr.mcgdlrprhjdyed.jarzryjdfml,
.fjdlmhfydce.jdfml ddKqydumyfdL dZjprqcxdxjrx,drpxdNrovdyfjdfjmz
yedfrcidfm.dlmccmep.,dyfjdlrzzmrhjdorpdyrvjdacrojdrydepoj,drpxdrydr
.yzevjd.fjdumccdryyrmpdujrcyf--peydyfjdkjhhrzcgdyfeq.rpx.dyfrydfrtj
kjjpdjbyzroyjxdizeldfmld.edirz dRpxdfjzdocjtjzdkzrmpdyrvj.dmpdyfj
.mlacmomygdeidyfjdyfmph dMydm.drccd.edjr.g dL dZjprqcxdm.dacrppmph
rccdyfjdomzoql.yrpoj.deidfm.dxjryf--.fjdfr.depcgdyed.yjadmpdrydyfj
zmhfydleljpydrpxdyqzpdyfjdirzojdmpyedrdhzmldzjrcmyg dRpxdfjzjdoelj.
mpdyfjd.joepxdaempydufmofdcjxdljdmpirccmkcgdyedLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc--
yfjdxrhhjz!dNrovdZjprqcxdfrxd_yfzjj_d.eqtjpmz.dlrxj dEpjdfjdhrtj
yedfm.dleyfjz,depjdyedKjccrdXqtjjp;dur.dmydpeydfmhfcgdazekrkcjdyfry
fjdfrxdhmtjpdyfjdyfmzxdepjdyedLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc?

".edyfjp,dyed.qldqa,dyfjzjdujzjdieqzdaempy.deidpeyjdrhrmp.ydLrzyfj
Xrqkzjqmc:

"(1)dLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmcdoeqcxdfrtjdetjzfjrzxdL ddZjprqcx'.dacrp. 

"(2)dLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmcdfrxdrdxmzjoydmpyjzj.ydmpdorq.mphdL dZjprqcx'.
xjryf 

"(3)dLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmcdur.dyfjdxrqhfyjzdeidyfjdpeyezmeq.dLrxrlj
Kjzecxgdufedmpdlgdeampmepdur.dlezrccgdrpxdtmzyqrccgdyfjdlqzxjzj..
eidfjzdfq.krpx,drcyfeqhfdmydlrgdfrtjdkjjpdHjezhj.dOeppjrq'.dfrpx
ufmofd.yzqovdyfjdroyqrcdkceu 

"(4)dLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmcdur.dyfjdepcgdajz.ep,dkj.mxj.dNrovdZjprqcx,
cmvjcgdyedfrtjdyfjdyfmzxdxrhhjzdmpdfjzdae..j..mep "

Aemzeydarq.jxdrpxdocjrzjxdfm.dyfzery 

"Eidoeqz.j,dufjpdMdcjrzpjxdeidyfjdjbm.yjpojdeidyfjdeyfjzdhmzc,
KjccrdXqtjjp,dMdzjrcmsjxdyfrydmydur.dwqmyjdae..mkcjdyfryd_.fj_dlmhfy
frtjdvmccjxdL dZjprqcx dYfjd.ecqymepdxmxdpeydoelljpxdmy.jcidyedlj,
kjorq.j,dr.dMdaempyjxdeqydyedgeq,dFr.ymph.,drpdjbajzy,d.qofdr.dMdrl,
cmvj.dyedljjydrdiejlrpduezyfgdeidfm.d.yjjc d.ymccdepjdlq.ydyrvj
ozmlj.dr.depjdimpx.dyfjl,dpeydr.depjdueqcxdcmvjdyfjldyedkj dMy
xmxdpeyd.jjldtjzgdcmvjcgdyfrydKjccrdXqtjjpdueqcxdkjdurpxjzmph
rkeqydorzzgmphdrd.eqtjpmzdarajz-vpmijdmpdfjzdfrpx,dkqydeidoeqz.j
.fjdlmhfydfrtjdfrxd.eljdmxjrdrccdyfjdymljdeidzjtjphmphdfjz.jcidep
NrovdZjprqcx dUfjpd.fjdroyqrccgdorljdiezurzxdrpxdoepij..jxdyedyfj
lqzxjz,dmyd.jjljxdyfrydrccdur.detjz dRpxdgjy--Mdur.dpeyd.rym.imjx,
_lepdrlm_ d_Mdur.dpeyd.rym.imjx d d d _

"Mdujpydetjzdyfjdor.jdrhrmpdlmpqyjcg,drpxdMdorljdyedyfjd.rlj
oepocq.mepdr.dkjiezj dMidmydur.d_pey_dKjccrdXqtjjp,dyfjdepcgdeyfjz
ajz.epdufedoeqcxdfrtjdoellmyyjxdyfjdozmljdur.dLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc dKqy
Mdfrxdpeydepjd.mphcjdazeeidrhrmp.ydfjz!

"Rpxdyfjpdgeqd.feujxdljdyfrydcjyyjzdizeldLrxjlem.jccjdXqcomj,drpx
Md.rudrdofrpojdeid.jyycmphdyfjdlryyjzdepojdiezdrcc dYfjdezmhmprc
xrhhjzdur.d.yecjpdkgdXqcomjdXqtjjpdrpxdyfzeupdmpyedyfjd.jr--.mpoj,
r.d.fjdyfeqhfy,dmydkjcephjxdyedfjzd.m.yjz dKqydmi,dkgdrpgdofrpoj,
mydur.d_pey_dfjzd.m.yjz'.,dkqydyfjdepjdhmtjpdkgdNrovdyedLrzyfj
Xrqkzjqmc--ufgdyfjp,dKjccrdXqtjjp'.dxrhhjzdueqcxdkjd.ymccdmpyroy!dM
.rmxdpeduezxdyedgeq,dFr.ymph.d(mydur.dpedymljdiezdzelrpoj)dkqydM
.eqhfydeqydLrxjlem.jccjdXqcomj,dyecxdfjzdr.dlqofdr.dMdxjjljxdpjjxiqc,
rpxd.jydfjzdyed.jrzofdrleph.ydyfjdjiijoy.deidfjzd.m.yjz dMlrhmpj
lgdjcrymep,dufjpd.fjd.eqhfydljdeqyd(rooezxmphdyedlgdmp.yzqoymep.)
r.dLm..dZekmp.epdumyfdyfjdazjomeq.d.eqtjpmzdmpdfjzdae..j..mep!

"MpdyfjdljrpymljdMdfrxdyrvjpd.yja.dyediezojdLrxjlem.jccjdLrzyfjdmpye
yfjdeajp dKgdlgdezxjz.,dLz. dZjprqcxdzjaqc.jxdfjzd.ep,drpxdxjocrzjx
fjzdmpyjpymepdeidlrvmphdrdumccdepdyfjdlezzeudufmofd.feqcxdoqydfml
eiidizeldjtjzdjpnegmphdjtjpdrdaezymepdeidfm.diryfjz'.diezyqpj 
Mydur.drdxj.ajzryjd.yja,dkqydrdpjoj..rzgdepj,drpxdLrxrljdZjprqcx
ur.diqccgdazjarzjxdyedyrvjdyfjdzm.v--yfeqhfdqpiezyqpryjcgd.fjdrc.e
pjtjzdyfeqhfydeidljpymepmphdfjzdofrphjdeidzeel dMd.qaae.jd.fjdyeevdmy
iezdhzrpyjxdyfrydMdvpju dRccdfraajpjxdr.dMdyfeqhfy dLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc
lrxjdrdcr.ydkecxdkmxdiezdyfjdZjprqcxdlmccmep.--rpxdirmcjx!"

"Ufrydrk.ecqyjcgdkjumcxjz.dlj,"dMd.rmx,d"m.dfeud.fjdjtjzdheydmpye
yfjdfeq.jdumyfeqydeqzd.jjmphdfjz dMyd.jjl.drpdrk.ecqyjdlmzrocj dUj
cjiydfjzdkjfmpxdrydyfjdTmccrdLrzhqjzmyj,dujdhed.yzrmhfydyedyfj
TmccrdHjpjtmètj--rpxdgjyd.fjdm.dyfjzjdkjiezjdq.!"

"Rf,dkqydujdxmxdpeydcjrtjdfjzdkjfmpx d.fjdur.deqydeidyfjdTmccr
Lrzhqjzmyjdkgdyfjdkrovdurgdufmc.ydujdujzjdyrcvmphdyedfjzdleyfjzdmp
yfjdfrcc dYfrydm.dufjzj,dr.dyfjdRljzmorp.d.rg,d.fjd'aqydmydetjz'
epdFjzoqcjdAemzey!"

"Kqydyfjd.frxeudepdyfjdkcmpx?dUjd.rudmydizeldyfjdzerx "

"_Jfdkmjp_,dufjpdujdceevjxdqa,dLrxrljdXrqkzjqmcdfrxdnq.ydfrxdymlj
yedzqpdqa.yrmz.drpxdyrvjdfjzdacroj "

"LrxrljdXrqkzjqmc?"

"Gj. dEpjdm.decx,drpxdepjdm.dgeqph,depjdxrzv,drpxdepjdirmz,dkqy,
iezdyfjdaqzae.jdeidrd.mcfeqjyyjdepdrdkcmpx,dyfjmzdazeimcj.drzj
.mphqcrzcgdrcmvj dJtjpdMdxmxdpeyd.q.ajoy--yzmacjdmlkjomcjdyfrydM
ur.!dMdyfeqhfydMdfrxdacjpygdeidymljdkjiezjdlj--yfryd.fjdueqcxdpey
yzgdyedhrmpdrxlm..mepdyedyfjdTmccrdqpymcdlqofdcryjz d.fjdfrxdkzrmp.,
yfrydkjrqymiqcdLrxjlem.jccjdLrzyfj "

"Rpxdfjzdeknjoydur.dyedlqzxjzdLz. dZjprqcx?"

"Gj. dYfjdufecjdiezyqpjdueqcxdyfjpdar..dyedfjzd.ep ddKqydmy
ueqcxdfrtjdkjjpd.qmomxj,d_lepdrlm_!dEpdyfjdiceezdkgdLrzyfj
Xrqkzjqmc'.dkexg,dMdieqpxdrdarxdrpxdrdcmyycjdkeyycjdeidofcezeiezl
rpxdrdfgaexjzlmod.gzmphjdoepyrmpmphdrdiryrcdxe.jdeidlezafmpj dGeq
qpxjz.yrpx?dYfjdofcezeiezldimz.y--yfjpdufjpdyfjdtmoymldm.dqpoep.omeq.
yfjdazmovdeidyfjdpjjxcj dKgdyfjdlezpmphdyfjd.ljccdeidyfjdofcezeiezl
fr.dwqmyjdxm.raajrzjx,drpxdyfjd.gzmphjdcmj.dufjzjdmydfr.dirccjp
izeldLrxrljdZjprqcx'.dfrpx dUfrydueqcxdfjd.rg,dyfjdjbojccjpy
L dFrqyjy?d'Aeezduelrp!ddUfrydxmxdMdyjccdgeq?dYfjd.feovdeidneg,
mydur.dyeedlqofdepdyeadeidyfjdzj.y!dXmxdMdpeyd.rgdyfrydMd.feqcx
peydkjd.qzazm.jxdmidfjzdkzrmpdkjorljdqpfmphjx dRcyehjyfjzdrdle.y
yzrhmodor.j,dyfjdZjprqcxdOr.j!'

"Feujtjz,dFr.ymph.,dyfmph.dxmxdpeydhedwqmyjdr.dLrxjlem.jccjdLrzyfj
frxdacrppjx dYedkjhmpdumyf,dLrxrljdZjprqcxdur.drurvjdrpxdurmymphdiez
fjz dYfjzjdm.drd.yzqhhcj dKqydLrxrljdZjprqcxdm.dyjzzmkcgdujrvd.ymcc 
Yfjzjdm.drdcr.ydofrpojdiezdLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc dYfjdmxjrdeid.qmomxjdm.
rydrpdjpx,dkqydmid.fjdorpd.mcjpojdLrxrljdZjprqcxdumyfdfjzd.yzeph
frpx.,dlrvjdrdhjyrurgdumyfdfjzdcmyycjd.mcvdcrxxjzdufmc.ydujdrzj
.ymccdkryyjzmphdepdyfjdmp.mxjdeidyfjdiqzyfjzdxeez,drpxdkjdkrovdry
yfjdTmccrdLrzhqjzmyjdkjiezjdujdzjyqzpdyfjzj,dmydumccdkjdfrzxdye
azetjdrpgyfmphdrhrmp.ydfjz dKqyd.fjdur.dofjovlryjx--peydkgdFjzoqcj
Aemzey--kqydkgd_crdajymyjdrozekryj_dumyfdfjzduzm.y.deid.yjjc "

Mdlq.jxdetjzdyfjdufecjd.yezg 

"Ufjpdxmxdgeqdimz.ydkjhmpdyed.q.ajoydLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmc,dAemzey?dUfjp
.fjdyecxdq.d.fjdfrxdetjzfjrzxdyfjdwqrzzjcdmpdyfjdhrzxjp?"

Aemzeyd.lmcjx 

"Lgdizmjpx,dxedgeqdzjljlkjzdufjpdujdxzetjdmpyedLjzcmptmccjdyfrydimz.y
xrg?dRpxdyfjdkjrqymiqcdhmzcdujd.rud.yrpxmphdrydyfjdhryj?dGeqdr.vjx
ljdmidMdfrxdpeydpeymojxdrdgeqphdhexxj..,drpxdMdzjacmjxdyedgeqdyfrydM
frxd.jjpdepcgdrdhmzcdumyfdrpbmeq.djgj. dYfrydm.dfeudMdfrtjdyfeqhfy
eidLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmcdizeldyfjdkjhmppmph d_Yfjdhmzcdumyfdyfjdrpbmeq.
jgj.!_dUfgdur.d.fjdrpbmeq.?dPeydepdNrovdZjprqcx'.dkjfrci,diezd.fjdxmx
peydvpeudyfjpdyfrydfjdfrxdkjjpdmpdLjzcmptmccjdyfjdazjtmeq.djtjpmph "

"Kgdyfjdurg,"dMdjbocrmljx,d"feudm.dNrovdZjprqcx?"

"Lqofdkjyyjz dFjdm.d.ymccdrydyfjdTmccrdLrzhqjzmyj dKqydLrxrlj
Xrqkzjqmcdfr.dxm.raajrzjx dYfjdaecmojdrzjdceevmphdiezdfjz "

"Ur.d.fjdmpdumyfdfjzdxrqhfyjz,dxedgeqdyfmpv?"

"Ujd.frccdpjtjzdvpeu dLrxrljdm.drdcrxgdufedorpdvjjadfjzd.jozjy. dRpx
Mdxeqkydtjzgdlqofdmidyfjdaecmojdumccdjtjzdimpxdfjz "

"Fr.dNrovdZjprqcxdkjjp--yecx?"

"Peydgjy "

"Mydumccdkjdrdyjzzmkcjd.feovdyedfml "

"Pryqzrccg dRpxdgjy,dxedgeqdvpeu,dFr.ymph.,dMdxeqkydmidfm.dfjrzydur.
jtjzd.jzmeq.cgdjphrhjx d.edirzdujdfrtjdceevjxdqaepdKjccrdXqtjjpdr.dr
.mzjp,drpxdLrzyfjdXrqkzjqmcdr.dyfjdhmzcdfjdzjrccgdcetjx dKqydMdyfmpv
yfrydmidujdzjtjz.jxdyfjdyjzl.dujd.feqcxdoeljdpjrzjzdyedyfjdyzqyf 
LrzyfjdXrqkzjqmcdur.dtjzgdkjrqymiqc d.fjd.jydfjz.jcidyedir.ompryj
Nrov,drpxd.fjd.qoojjxjx,dkqydzjljlkjzdfm.doqzmeq.dzjcqoyrpojdye
kzjrvdumyfdyfjdeyfjzdhmzc dRpxd.jjdfeudfjdur.dumccmphdyedhedyedyfj
hqmcceympjdzryfjzdyfrpdmlacmoryjdfjz dMdfrtjdrdcmyycjdmxjrdyfry
ufjpdfjdcjrzp.dyfjdyzqyfdfjdumccdkjdfezzmimjx--zjtecyjx,drpxdfm.
irc.jdcetjdumccdumyfjzdrurg "

"UfrydrkeqydHmzrqx?"

"Fjdfr.drd_ozm.j_deidyfjdpjztj.,dyfrydepj!dFjdfr.dkjjpdekcmhjxdye
zjyqzpdyedArzm. "

Ujdkeyfd.lmcjx 

Aemzeydazetjxdrdirmzcgdyzqjdazeafjy dUfjpdrydcjphyfdyfjdxeoyez
azepeqpojxdNrovdZjprqcxd.yzephdjpeqhfdyedfjrzdyfjdyzqyf,dmydur.
Aemzeydufedkzevjdmydyedfml dYfjd.feovdur.dmpxjjxdyjzzmimo dGjydNrov
zrccmjxdkjyyjzdyfrpdMdoeqcxdfrtjd.qaae.jxdae..mkcj dFm.dleyfjz'.
xjteymepdfjcajxdfmldyedcmtjdyfzeqhfdyfe.jdxmiimoqcydxrg. dYfjdleyfjz
rpxd.epdujzjdmp.jarzrkcjdpeu 

Yfjzjdur.drdiqzyfjzdzjtjcrymepdyedoelj dAemzeydfrxdrowqrmpyjx
Lz. dZjprqcxdumyfdyfjdiroydyfrydfjdvpjudfjzd.jozjy,drpxdfrx
zjazj.jpyjxdyedfjzdyfrydNrovd.feqcxdpeydkjdcjiydmpdmhpezrpojdei
fm.diryfjz'.dar.y 

"Yedfmxjdyfjdyzqyf,dpjtjzdxej.dmydrtrmc,dlrxrlj!dKjdkzrtjdrpxdyjcc
fmldjtjzgyfmph "

UmyfdrdfjrtgdfjrzydLz. dZjprqcxdoep.jpyjx,drpxdfjzd.epdcjrzpjx
yfrydyfjdiryfjzdfjdfrxdcetjxdfrxdkjjpdmpdroyqrcdiroydrdiqhmymtj
izeldnq.ymoj dRdfrcymphdwqj.ymepdur.dazelaycgdrp.ujzjxdkgdAemzey 

"Zjr..qzjdgeqz.jci,dL dNrov dYfjduezcxdvpeu.dpeyfmph ddR.dirzdr.
Mdorpd.jj,dyfjzjdm.dpedekcmhrymepdiezdljdyedyrvjdyfjdaecmojdmpye
lgdoepimxjpoj dYfzeqhfeqydyfjdor.jdMdfrtjdroyjx,dpeydiezdyfjl,
kqydiezdgeqzdiryfjz dNq.ymojdetjzyeevdfmldrydcr.y,dkqydpedepjdpjjx
jtjzdvpeudyfrydfjdrpxdHjezhj.dOeppjrqdujzjdepjdrpxdyfjd.rlj "

Yfjzjdujzj,deidoeqz.j,dtrzmeq.daempy.dmpdyfjdor.jdyfrydzjlrmpjx
aqsscmphdyedyfjdaecmoj,dkqydAemzeydjbacrmpjxdyfmph.dmpd.edacrq.mkcj
rdir.fmepdyfrydrccdwqjzgdrkeqydyfjldur.dhzrxqrccgd.ymccjx 

.fezycgdriyjzdujdheydkrovdyedCepxep,dMdpeymojxdrdlrhpmimojpydlexjcdei
rdiebfeqpxdrxezpmphdAemzey'.dlrpyjcamjoj dMpdrp.ujzdyedlgdmpwqmzmph
hcrpoj,dAemzeydpexxjx 

"_Lrm.,deqm!_dMdheydlgd500dizrpo.!dM.dfjdpeydrd.acjpxmxdijcceu?dM
orccdfmldHmzrqx!"

Rdijudxrg.dcryjzdNrovdZjprqcxdorljdyed.jjdq.dumyfdrdzj.ecqyj
jbazj..mepdepdfm.diroj 

"L dAemzey,dM'tjdoeljdyed.rgdheex-kgj dM'ld.rmcmphdiezd.eqyfdRljzmor
rcle.ydmlljxmryjcg dLgdiryfjzdfrxdcrzhjdmpyjzj.y.detjzdyfjdoepympjpy,
rpxdMdljrpdyed.yrzydrdpjudcmijdeqydyfjzj "

"Geqdhedrcepj,dL dNrov?"

"Lgdleyfjzdoelj.dumyfdlj--rpxdMd.frccdvjjad.yepezdepdr.dlg
.jozjyrzg dFjdcmvj.deqydei-yfj-urgdarzy.deidyfjduezcx "

"Pedepjdjc.jdhej.dumyfdgeq?"

Nrovdicq.fjx 

"Geqdljrp--?"

"Rdhmzcdufedcetj.dgeqdtjzgdxjrzcg--ufedfr.dkjjpdumccmphdyedcrgdxeup
fjzdcmijdiezdgeq "

"FeudoeqcxdMdr.vdfjz?"dlqyyjzjxdyfjdkeg d"Riyjzdrccdyfrydfr.
fraajpjx,doeqcxdMdhedyedfjzdrpx--ef,dufryd.ezydeidrdcrljd.yezg
oeqcxdMdyjcc?"

"_Cj.dijllj._--yfjgdfrtjdrduepxjziqcdhjpmq.diezdlrpqiroyqzmph
ozqyofj.diezd.yezmj.dcmvjdyfry "

"Gj.,dkqy---M'tjdkjjpd.qofdrdxrlpjxdieec!"

".edfrtjdrccdeidq.,drydepjdymljdrpxdrpeyfjz,"dek.jztjxdAemzey
afmce.eafmorccg 

KqydNrov'.dirojdfrxdfrzxjpjx 

"Yfjzj'.d.eljyfmphdjc.j dM'ldlgdiryfjz'.d.ep dUeqcxdrpgdepjdlrzzg
lj,dvpeumphdyfry?"

"Geqdrzjdgeqzdiryfjz'.d.ep,dgeqd.rg dFr.ymph.dfjzjdumccdyjccdgeq
yfrydMdkjcmjtjdmpdfjzjxmyg--"

"Ujcc,dyfjp--"

"Urmy dMdvpeudrduelrp,drduelrpdeidoeqzrhjdrpxdjpxqzrpoj,dorarkcj
eidhzjrydcetj,deid.qazjljd.jci-.rozmimoj--"

Yfjdkegdceevjxdqa dFm.djgj.d.eiyjpjx 

"Lgdleyfjz!"

"Gj. dGeqdrzjdgeqzdleyfjz'.d.epdr.dujccdr.dgeqzdiryfjz'. dHedyfjp
yedLrxjlem.jccjdKjccr dYjccdfjzdjtjzgyfmph ddVjjadpeyfmphdkrov--rpx
.jjdufryd.fjdumccd.rg!"

Nrovdceevjxdmzzj.ecqyj 

"Hedyedfjzdr.drdkegdpedcephjz,dkqydrdlrp--rdlrpdkeujxdkgdyfjdiryjdei
yfjdAr.y,drpxdyfjdiryjdeidYexrg,dkqydceevmphdiezurzxdyedrdpjudrpx
uepxjziqcdcmij dR.vdfjzdyed.frzjdmydumyfdgeq dGeqdlrgdpeydzjrcmsj
my,dkqydgeqzdcetjdiezdjrofdeyfjzdfr.dkjjpdyj.yjxdmpdyfjdimzjdrpx
peydieqpxdurpymph dGeqdfrtjdkeyfdkjjpdumccmphdyedcrgdxeupdgeqz
cmtj.diezdjrofdeyfjz "

RpxdufrydeidOrayrmpdRzyfqzdFr.ymph.,dfqlkcjdofzepmocjzdeidyfj.j
arhj.?

Yfjzjdm.d.eljdyrcvdeidfm.dnempmphdyfjdZjprqcx.depdrdzrpofdroze..
yfjd.jr.,dkqydiezdyfjdjpxdeidyfm.d.yezgdMdazjijzdyedhedkrovdyedr
lezpmphdmpdyfjdhrzxjpdeidyfjdTmccrdHjpjtmètj 

"Mdorp'ydorccdgeqdKjccr,"dMd.rmx,d".mpojdmydm.p'ydgeqzdprlj dRpx
Xqcomjd.jjl.d.edqpirlmcmrz d.edmy'.dheydyedkjdOmpxjzjccr dOmpxjzjccr
lrzzmjxdyfjdAzmpoj,dgeqdzjljlkjz ddM'ldpeydrdAzmpoj,dkqy--"

.fjdmpyjzzqayjxdlj 

"Ompxjzjccrdurzpjxdfml,dM'ld.qzj!dGeqd.jj,d.fjdoeqcxp'ydazelm.jdye
yqzpdmpyedrdazmpoj.. d.fjdur.depcgdrdcmyycjd.oqccmepdriyjzdrcc--"

"My'.dyfjdAzmpoj'.dyqzpdyedmpyjzzqay,"dMdmpyjzaecryjx dd"Xedgeq
vpeudufrydfjd.rmx?"

"Pe?"

"'Fjcc!'d.rmxdyfjdAzmpoj--rpxdvm..jxdfjz!"

RpxdMd.qmyjxdyfjdroymepdyedyfjduezx 





JpxdeidAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh'.dYfjdLqzxjzdepdyfjdCmpv.,dkgdRhryfrdOfzm.ymj

***dJPXdEIdYFM.dAZENJOYdHQYJPKJZHdJKEEVdYFJdLQZXJZdEPdYFJdCMPV.d***

*****dYfm.dimcjd.feqcxdkjdprljxd58866-0 ybydezd58866-0 smad*****
Yfm.drpxdrccdr..eomryjxdimcj.deidtrzmeq.diezlry.dumccdkjdieqpxdmp:
ddddddddfyya://uuu hqyjpkjzh ezh/5/8/8/6/58866/

AzexqojxdkgdRcjbdOrkrcdiezdyfjd.yrpxrzxdJkeev.dazenjoy,
umyfdyfrpv.dyedLrzvdHzrfrldeidyfjdMpyjzpjydRzofmtj

Qaxryjxdjxmymep.dumccdzjacrojdyfjdazjtmeq.depj--yfjdecxdjxmymep.dumcc
kjdzjprljx 

Ozjrymphdyfjduezv.dizeldazmpydjxmymep.dpeydazeyjoyjxdkgdQ . doeagzmhfy
crudljrp.dyfrydpedepjdeup.drdQpmyjxd.yryj.doeagzmhfydmpdyfj.jduezv.,
.edyfjdIeqpxrymepd(rpxdgeq!)dorpdoeagdrpxdxm.yzmkqyjdmydmpdyfjdQpmyjx
.yryj.dumyfeqydajzlm..mepdrpxdumyfeqydargmphdoeagzmhfy
zegrcymj. d.ajomrcdzqcj.,d.jydiezyfdmpdyfjdHjpjzrcdYjzl.deidQ.jdarzy
eidyfm.dcmojp.j,draacgdyedoeagmphdrpxdxm.yzmkqymphdAzenjoy
Hqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezv.dyedazeyjoydyfjdAZENJOYdHQYJPKJZH-yl
oepojaydrpxdyzrxjlrzv dAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdm.drdzjhm.yjzjxdyzrxjlrzv,
rpxdlrgdpeydkjdq.jxdmidgeqdofrzhjdiezdyfjdjKeev.,dqpcj..dgeqdzjojmtj
.ajomimodajzlm..mep dMidgeqdxedpeydofrzhjdrpgyfmphdiezdoeamj.deidyfm.
jKeev,doelacgmphdumyfdyfjdzqcj.dm.dtjzgdjr.g dGeqdlrgdq.jdyfm.djKeev
iezdpjrzcgdrpgdaqzae.jd.qofdr.dozjrymepdeidxjzmtrymtjduezv.,dzjaezy.,
ajziezlrpoj.drpxdzj.jrzof dYfjgdlrgdkjdlexmimjxdrpxdazmpyjxdrpxdhmtjp
rurg--geqdlrgdxedazroymorccgdRPGYFMPHdmpdyfjdQpmyjxd.yryj.dumyfdjKeev.
peydazeyjoyjxdkgdQ . doeagzmhfydcru dZjxm.yzmkqymepdm.d.qknjoydyedyfj
yzrxjlrzvdcmojp.j,dj.ajomrccgdoelljzomrcdzjxm.yzmkqymep 

.YRZY:dIQCCdCMOJP.J

YFJdIQCCdAZENJOYdHQYJPKJZHdCMOJP.J
ACJR.JdZJRXdYFM.dKJIEZJdGEQdXM.YZMKQYJdEZdQ.JdYFM.dUEZV

YedazeyjoydyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldlm..mepdeidazeleymphdyfjdizjj
xm.yzmkqymepdeidjcjoyzepmoduezv.,dkgdq.mphdezdxm.yzmkqymphdyfm.duezv
(ezdrpgdeyfjzduezvdr..eomryjxdmpdrpgdurgdumyfdyfjdafzr.jd"Azenjoy
Hqyjpkjzh"),dgeqdrhzjjdyedoelacgdumyfdrccdyfjdyjzl.deidyfjdIqcc
AzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldCmojp.jdrtrmcrkcjdumyfdyfm.dimcjdezdepcmpjdry
uuu hqyjpkjzh ezh/cmojp.j 

.joymepd1 dHjpjzrcdYjzl.deidQ.jdrpxdZjxm.yzmkqymphdAzenjoy
Hqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezv.

1 R dKgdzjrxmphdezdq.mphdrpgdarzydeidyfm.dAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl
jcjoyzepmoduezv,dgeqdmpxmoryjdyfrydgeqdfrtjdzjrx,dqpxjz.yrpx,drhzjjdye
rpxdroojaydrccdyfjdyjzl.deidyfm.dcmojp.jdrpxdmpyjccjoyqrcdazeajzyg
(yzrxjlrzv/oeagzmhfy)drhzjjljpy dMidgeqdxedpeydrhzjjdyedrkmxjdkgdrcc
yfjdyjzl.deidyfm.drhzjjljpy,dgeqdlq.ydojr.jdq.mphdrpxdzjyqzpdez
xj.yzegdrccdoeamj.deidAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezv.dmpdgeqz
ae..j..mep dMidgeqdarmxdrdijjdiezdekyrmpmphdrdoeagdeidezdrooj..dyedr
AzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezvdrpxdgeqdxedpeydrhzjjdyedkjdkeqpx
kgdyfjdyjzl.deidyfm.drhzjjljpy,dgeqdlrgdekyrmpdrdzjiqpxdizeldyfj
ajz.epdezdjpymygdyedufeldgeqdarmxdyfjdijjdr.d.jydiezyfdmpdarzrhzraf
1 J 8 

1 K d"AzenjoydHqyjpkjzh"dm.drdzjhm.yjzjxdyzrxjlrzv dMydlrgdepcgdkj
q.jxdepdezdr..eomryjxdmpdrpgdurgdumyfdrpdjcjoyzepmoduezvdkgdajeacjdufe
rhzjjdyedkjdkeqpxdkgdyfjdyjzl.deidyfm.drhzjjljpy dYfjzjdrzjdrdiju
yfmph.dyfrydgeqdorpdxedumyfdle.ydAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezv.
jtjpdumyfeqydoelacgmphdumyfdyfjdiqccdyjzl.deidyfm.drhzjjljpy d.jj
arzrhzrafd1 Odkjceu dYfjzjdrzjdrdceydeidyfmph.dgeqdorpdxedumyfdAzenjoy
Hqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezv.dmidgeqdiecceudyfjdyjzl.deidyfm.
rhzjjljpydrpxdfjcadazj.jztjdizjjdiqyqzjdrooj..dyedAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl
jcjoyzepmoduezv. d.jjdarzrhzrafd1 Jdkjceu 

1 O dYfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdCmyjzrzgdRzofmtjdIeqpxrymepd("yfj
Ieqpxrymep"dezdAHCRI),deup.drdoelamcrymepdoeagzmhfydmpdyfjdoeccjoymep
eidAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezv. dPjrzcgdrccdyfjdmpxmtmxqrc
uezv.dmpdyfjdoeccjoymepdrzjdmpdyfjdaqkcmodxelrmpdmpdyfjdQpmyjx
.yryj. dMidrpdmpxmtmxqrcduezvdm.dqpazeyjoyjxdkgdoeagzmhfydcrudmpdyfj
Qpmyjxd.yryj.drpxdgeqdrzjdceoryjxdmpdyfjdQpmyjxd.yryj.,dujdxedpey
ocrmldrdzmhfydyedazjtjpydgeqdizeldoeagmph,dxm.yzmkqymph,dajziezlmph,
xm.acrgmphdezdozjrymphdxjzmtrymtjduezv.dkr.jxdepdyfjduezvdr.dcephdr.
rccdzjijzjpoj.dyedAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdrzjdzjletjx dEidoeqz.j,dujdfeaj
yfrydgeqdumccd.qaaezydyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldlm..mepdeidazeleymph
izjjdrooj..dyedjcjoyzepmoduezv.dkgdizjjcgd.frzmphdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl
uezv.dmpdoelacmrpojdumyfdyfjdyjzl.deidyfm.drhzjjljpydiezdvjjamphdyfj
AzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldprljdr..eomryjxdumyfdyfjduezv dGeqdorpdjr.mcg
oelacgdumyfdyfjdyjzl.deidyfm.drhzjjljpydkgdvjjamphdyfm.duezvdmpdyfj
.rljdiezlrydumyfdmy.dryyrofjxdiqccdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldCmojp.jdufjp
geqd.frzjdmydumyfeqydofrzhjdumyfdeyfjz. 

1 X dYfjdoeagzmhfydcru.deidyfjdacrojdufjzjdgeqdrzjdceoryjxdrc.edhetjzp
ufrydgeqdorpdxedumyfdyfm.duezv dOeagzmhfydcru.dmpdle.ydoeqpyzmj.drzj
mpdrdoep.yrpyd.yryjdeidofrphj dMidgeqdrzjdeqy.mxjdyfjdQpmyjxd.yryj.,
ofjovdyfjdcru.deidgeqzdoeqpyzgdmpdrxxmymepdyedyfjdyjzl.deidyfm.
rhzjjljpydkjiezjdxeupcerxmph,doeagmph,dxm.acrgmph,dajziezlmph,
xm.yzmkqymphdezdozjrymphdxjzmtrymtjduezv.dkr.jxdepdyfm.duezvdezdrpg
eyfjzdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-ylduezv dYfjdIeqpxrymepdlrvj.dpe
zjazj.jpyrymep.doepojzpmphdyfjdoeagzmhfyd.yryq.deidrpgduezvdmpdrpg
oeqpyzgdeqy.mxjdyfjdQpmyjxd.yryj. 

1 J dQpcj..dgeqdfrtjdzjletjxdrccdzjijzjpoj.dyedAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh:

1 J 1 dYfjdiecceumphd.jpyjpoj,dumyfdroymtjdcmpv.dye,dezdeyfjz
mlljxmryjdrooj..dye,dyfjdiqccdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldCmojp.jdlq.ydraajrz
azelmpjpycgdufjpjtjzdrpgdoeagdeidrdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-ylduezvd(rpgduezv
epdufmofdyfjdafzr.jd"AzenjoydHqyjpkjzh"draajrz.,dezdumyfdufmofdyfj
afzr.jd"AzenjoydHqyjpkjzh"dm.dr..eomryjx)dm.drooj..jx,dxm.acrgjx,
ajziezljx,dtmjujx,doeamjxdezdxm.yzmkqyjx:

ddYfm.djKeevdm.diezdyfjdq.jdeidrpgepjdrpgufjzjdmpdyfjdQpmyjxd.yryj.drpx
ddle.ydeyfjzdarzy.deidyfjduezcxdrydpedoe.ydrpxdumyfdrcle.ydpe
ddzj.yzmoymep.dufry.ejtjz dGeqdlrgdoeagdmy,dhmtjdmydrurgdezdzj-q.jdmy
ddqpxjzdyfjdyjzl.deidyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdCmojp.jdmpocqxjxdumyfdyfm.
ddjKeevdezdepcmpjdryduuu hqyjpkjzh ezh dMidgeqdrzjdpeydceoryjxdmpdyfj
ddQpmyjxd.yryj.,dgeq'ccdfrtjdyedofjovdyfjdcru.deidyfjdoeqpyzgdufjzjdgeq
ddrzjdceoryjxdkjiezjdq.mphdyfm.djkeev 

1 J 2 dMidrpdmpxmtmxqrcdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezvdm.
xjzmtjxdizeldyjby.dpeydazeyjoyjxdkgdQ . doeagzmhfydcrud(xej.dpey
oepyrmpdrdpeymojdmpxmorymphdyfrydmydm.dae.yjxdumyfdajzlm..mepdeidyfj
oeagzmhfydfecxjz),dyfjduezvdorpdkjdoeamjxdrpxdxm.yzmkqyjxdyedrpgepjdmp
yfjdQpmyjxd.yryj.dumyfeqydargmphdrpgdijj.dezdofrzhj. dMidgeqdrzj
zjxm.yzmkqymphdezdazetmxmphdrooj..dyedrduezvdumyfdyfjdafzr.jd"Azenjoy
Hqyjpkjzh"dr..eomryjxdumyfdezdraajrzmphdepdyfjduezv,dgeqdlq.ydoelacg
jmyfjzdumyfdyfjdzjwqmzjljpy.deidarzrhzraf.d1 J 1dyfzeqhfd1 J 7dez
ekyrmpdajzlm..mepdiezdyfjdq.jdeidyfjduezvdrpxdyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl
yzrxjlrzvdr.d.jydiezyfdmpdarzrhzraf.d1 J 8dezd1 J 9 

1 J 3 dMidrpdmpxmtmxqrcdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezvdm.dae.yjx
umyfdyfjdajzlm..mepdeidyfjdoeagzmhfydfecxjz,dgeqzdq.jdrpxdxm.yzmkqymep
lq.ydoelacgdumyfdkeyfdarzrhzraf.d1 J 1dyfzeqhfd1 J 7drpxdrpg
rxxmymeprcdyjzl.dmlae.jxdkgdyfjdoeagzmhfydfecxjz dRxxmymeprcdyjzl.
umccdkjdcmpvjxdyedyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldCmojp.jdiezdrccduezv.
ae.yjxdumyfdyfjdajzlm..mepdeidyfjdoeagzmhfydfecxjzdieqpxdrydyfj
kjhmppmphdeidyfm.duezv 

1 J 4 dXedpeydqpcmpvdezdxjyrofdezdzjletjdyfjdiqccdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl
Cmojp.jdyjzl.dizeldyfm.duezv,dezdrpgdimcj.doepyrmpmphdrdarzydeidyfm.
uezvdezdrpgdeyfjzduezvdr..eomryjxdumyfdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl 

1 J 5 dXedpeydoeag,dxm.acrg,dajziezl,dxm.yzmkqyjdezdzjxm.yzmkqyjdyfm.
jcjoyzepmoduezv,dezdrpgdarzydeidyfm.djcjoyzepmoduezv,dumyfeqy
azelmpjpycgdxm.acrgmphdyfjd.jpyjpojd.jydiezyfdmpdarzrhzrafd1 J 1dumyf
roymtjdcmpv.dezdmlljxmryjdrooj..dyedyfjdiqccdyjzl.deidyfjdAzenjoy
Hqyjpkjzh-yldCmojp.j 

1 J 6 dGeqdlrgdoeptjzydyedrpxdxm.yzmkqyjdyfm.duezvdmpdrpgdkmprzg,
oelazj..jx,dlrzvjxdqa,dpepazeazmjyrzgdezdazeazmjyrzgdiezl,dmpocqxmph
rpgduezxdazeoj..mphdezdfgajzyjbydiezl dFeujtjz,dmidgeqdazetmxjdrooj..
yedezdxm.yzmkqyjdoeamj.deidrdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-ylduezvdmpdrdiezlry
eyfjzdyfrpd"AcrmpdTrpmccrdR.OMM"dezdeyfjzdiezlrydq.jxdmpdyfjdeiimomrc
tjz.mepdae.yjxdepdyfjdeiimomrcdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldujkd.myj
(uuu hqyjpkjzh ezh),dgeqdlq.y,drydpedrxxmymeprcdoe.y,dijjdezdjbajp.j
yedyfjdq.jz,dazetmxjdrdoeag,drdljrp.deidjbaezymphdrdoeag,dezdrdljrp.
eidekyrmpmphdrdoeagdqaepdzjwqj.y,deidyfjduezvdmpdmy.dezmhmprcd"Acrmp
TrpmccrdR.OMM"dezdeyfjzdiezl dRpgdrcyjzpryjdiezlrydlq.ydmpocqxjdyfj
iqccdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldCmojp.jdr.d.ajomimjxdmpdarzrhzrafd1 J 1 

1 J 7 dXedpeydofrzhjdrdijjdiezdrooj..dye,dtmjumph,dxm.acrgmph,
ajziezlmph,doeagmphdezdxm.yzmkqymphdrpgdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-ylduezv.
qpcj..dgeqdoelacgdumyfdarzrhzrafd1 J 8dezd1 J 9 

1 J 8 dGeqdlrgdofrzhjdrdzjr.eprkcjdijjdiezdoeamj.deidezdazetmxmph
rooj..dyedezdxm.yzmkqymphdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezv.
azetmxjxdyfry

*dGeqdargdrdzegrcygdijjdeid20%deidyfjdhze..dazeimy.dgeqdxjzmtjdizel
ddyfjdq.jdeidAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-ylduezv.dorcoqcryjxdq.mphdyfjdljyfex
ddgeqdrczjrxgdq.jdyedorcoqcryjdgeqzdraacmorkcjdyrbj. dYfjdijjdm.deujx
ddyedyfjdeupjzdeidyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldyzrxjlrzv,dkqydfjdfr.
ddrhzjjxdyedxepryjdzegrcymj.dqpxjzdyfm.darzrhzrafdyedyfjdAzenjoy
ddHqyjpkjzhdCmyjzrzgdRzofmtjdIeqpxrymep dZegrcygdargljpy.dlq.ydkjdarmx
ddumyfmpd60dxrg.diecceumphdjrofdxryjdepdufmofdgeqdazjarzjd(ezdrzj
ddcjhrccgdzjwqmzjxdyedazjarzj)dgeqzdajzmexmodyrbdzjyqzp. dZegrcyg
ddargljpy.d.feqcxdkjdocjrzcgdlrzvjxdr.d.qofdrpxd.jpydyedyfjdAzenjoy
ddHqyjpkjzhdCmyjzrzgdRzofmtjdIeqpxrymepdrydyfjdrxxzj..d.ajomimjxdmp
dd.joymepd4,d"Mpiezlrymepdrkeqydxeprymep.dyedyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh
ddCmyjzrzgdRzofmtjdIeqpxrymep "

*dGeqdazetmxjdrdiqccdzjiqpxdeidrpgdlepjgdarmxdkgdrdq.jzdufedpeymimj.
ddgeqdmpduzmymphd(ezdkgdj-lrmc)dumyfmpd30dxrg.deidzjojmaydyfryd./fj
ddxej.dpeydrhzjjdyedyfjdyjzl.deidyfjdiqccdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl
ddCmojp.j dGeqdlq.ydzjwqmzjd.qofdrdq.jzdyedzjyqzpdezdxj.yzegdrcc
ddoeamj.deidyfjduezv.dae..j..jxdmpdrdafg.morcdljxmqldrpxdxm.oepympqj
ddrccdq.jdeidrpxdrccdrooj..dyedeyfjzdoeamj.deidAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl
dduezv. 

*dGeqdazetmxj,dmpdrooezxrpojdumyfdarzrhzrafd1 I 3,drdiqccdzjiqpxdei
ddrpgdlepjgdarmxdiezdrduezvdezdrdzjacrojljpydoeag,dmidrdxjijoydmpdyfj
ddjcjoyzepmoduezvdm.dxm.oetjzjxdrpxdzjaezyjxdyedgeqdumyfmpd90dxrg.dei
ddzjojmaydeidyfjduezv 

*dGeqdoelacgdumyfdrccdeyfjzdyjzl.deidyfm.drhzjjljpydiezdizjj
ddxm.yzmkqymepdeidAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-ylduezv. 

1 J 9 dMidgeqdum.fdyedofrzhjdrdijjdezdxm.yzmkqyjdrdAzenjoy
Hqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezvdezdhzeqadeiduezv.depdxmiijzjpydyjzl.dyfrp
rzjd.jydiezyfdmpdyfm.drhzjjljpy,dgeqdlq.ydekyrmpdajzlm..mepdmpduzmymph
izeldkeyfdyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdCmyjzrzgdRzofmtjdIeqpxrymepdrpxdYfj
AzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdYzrxjlrzvdCCO,dyfjdeupjzdeidyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl
yzrxjlrzv dOepyroydyfjdIeqpxrymepdr.d.jydiezyfdmpd.joymepd3dkjceu 

1 I 

1 I 1 dAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdtecqpyjjz.drpxdjlacegjj.djbajpxdoep.mxjzrkcj
jiiezydyedmxjpymig,dxedoeagzmhfydzj.jrzofdep,dyzrp.ozmkjdrpxdazeeizjrx
uezv.dpeydazeyjoyjxdkgdQ . doeagzmhfydcrudmpdozjrymphdyfjdAzenjoy
Hqyjpkjzh-yldoeccjoymep dXj.amyjdyfj.jdjiiezy.,dAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl
jcjoyzepmoduezv.,drpxdyfjdljxmqldepdufmofdyfjgdlrgdkjd.yezjx,dlrg
oepyrmpd"Xjijoy.,"d.qofdr.,dkqydpeydcmlmyjxdye,dmpoelacjyj,dmprooqzryj
ezdoezzqaydxryr,dyzrp.ozmaymepdjzzez.,drdoeagzmhfydezdeyfjz
mpyjccjoyqrcdazeajzygdmpizmphjljpy,drdxjijoymtjdezdxrlrhjxdxm.vdez
eyfjzdljxmql,drdoelaqyjzdtmzq.,dezdoelaqyjzdoexj.dyfrydxrlrhjdez
orppeydkjdzjrxdkgdgeqzdjwqmaljpy 

1 I 2 dCMLMYJXdURZZRPYG,dXM.OCRMLJZdEIdXRLRHJ.d-dJbojaydiezdyfjd"Zmhfy
eidZjacrojljpydezdZjiqpx"dxj.ozmkjxdmpdarzrhzrafd1 I 3,dyfjdAzenjoy
HqyjpkjzhdCmyjzrzgdRzofmtjdIeqpxrymep,dyfjdeupjzdeidyfjdAzenjoy
Hqyjpkjzh-yldyzrxjlrzv,drpxdrpgdeyfjzdarzygdxm.yzmkqymphdrdAzenjoy
Hqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezvdqpxjzdyfm.drhzjjljpy,dxm.ocrmldrcc
cmrkmcmygdyedgeqdiezdxrlrhj.,doe.y.drpxdjbajp.j.,dmpocqxmphdcjhrc
ijj. dGEQdRHZJJdYFRYdGEQdFRTJdPEdZJLJXMJ.dIEZdPJHCMHJPOJ,d.YZMOY
CMRKMCMYG,dKZJROFdEIdURZZRPYGdEZdKZJROFdEIdOEPYZROYdJBOJAYdYFE.J
AZETMXJXdMPdARZRHZRAFd1 I 3 dGEQdRHZJJdYFRYdYFJdIEQPXRYMEP,dYFJ
YZRXJLRZVdEUPJZ,dRPXdRPGdXM.YZMKQYEZdQPXJZdYFM.dRHZJJLJPYdUMCCdPEYdKJ
CMRKCJdYEdGEQdIEZdROYQRC,dXMZJOY,dMPXMZJOY,dOEP.JWQJPYMRC,dAQPMYMTJdEZ
MPOMXJPYRCdXRLRHJ.dJTJPdMIdGEQdHMTJdPEYMOJdEIdYFJdAE..MKMCMYGdEId.QOF
XRLRHJ 

1 I 3 dCMLMYJXdZMHFYdEIdZJACROJLJPYdEZdZJIQPXd-dMidgeqdxm.oetjzdr
xjijoydmpdyfm.djcjoyzepmoduezvdumyfmpd90dxrg.deidzjojmtmphdmy,dgeqdorp
zjojmtjdrdzjiqpxdeidyfjdlepjgd(midrpg)dgeqdarmxdiezdmydkgd.jpxmphdr
uzmyyjpdjbacrprymepdyedyfjdajz.epdgeqdzjojmtjxdyfjduezvdizel dMidgeq
zjojmtjxdyfjduezvdepdrdafg.morcdljxmql,dgeqdlq.ydzjyqzpdyfjdljxmql
umyfdgeqzduzmyyjpdjbacrprymep dYfjdajz.epdezdjpymygdyfrydazetmxjxdgeq
umyfdyfjdxjijoymtjduezvdlrgdjcjoydyedazetmxjdrdzjacrojljpydoeagdmp
cmjqdeidrdzjiqpx dMidgeqdzjojmtjxdyfjduezvdjcjoyzepmorccg,dyfjdajz.ep
ezdjpymygdazetmxmphdmydyedgeqdlrgdofee.jdyedhmtjdgeqdrd.joepx
eaaezyqpmygdyedzjojmtjdyfjduezvdjcjoyzepmorccgdmpdcmjqdeidrdzjiqpx dMi
yfjd.joepxdoeagdm.drc.edxjijoymtj,dgeqdlrgdxjlrpxdrdzjiqpxdmpduzmymph
umyfeqydiqzyfjzdeaaezyqpmymj.dyedimbdyfjdazekcjl 

1 I 4 dJbojaydiezdyfjdcmlmyjxdzmhfydeidzjacrojljpydezdzjiqpxd.jydiezyf
mpdarzrhzrafd1 I 3,dyfm.duezvdm.dazetmxjxdyedgeqd'R.-M.',dUMYFdPE
EYFJZdURZZRPYMJ.dEIdRPGdVMPX,dJBAZJ..dEZdMLACMJX,dMPOCQXMPHdKQYdPEY
CMLMYJXdYEdURZZRPYMJ.dEIdLJZOFRPYRKMCMYGdEZdIMYPJ..dIEZdRPGdAQZAE.J 

1 I 5 d.eljd.yryj.dxedpeydrcceudxm.ocrmljz.deidojzyrmpdmlacmjx
urzzrpymj.dezdyfjdjbocq.mepdezdcmlmyrymepdeidojzyrmpdygaj.dei
xrlrhj. dMidrpgdxm.ocrmljzdezdcmlmyrymepd.jydiezyfdmpdyfm.drhzjjljpy
tmecryj.dyfjdcrudeidyfjd.yryjdraacmorkcjdyedyfm.drhzjjljpy,dyfj
rhzjjljpyd.frccdkjdmpyjzazjyjxdyedlrvjdyfjdlrbmlqldxm.ocrmljzdez
cmlmyrymepdajzlmyyjxdkgdyfjdraacmorkcjd.yryjdcru dYfjdmptrcmxmygdez
qpjpiezojrkmcmygdeidrpgdazetm.mepdeidyfm.drhzjjljpyd.frccdpeydtemxdyfj
zjlrmpmphdazetm.mep. 

1 I 6 dMPXJLPMYGd-dGeqdrhzjjdyedmpxjlpmigdrpxdfecxdyfjdIeqpxrymep,dyfj
yzrxjlrzvdeupjz,drpgdrhjpydezdjlacegjjdeidyfjdIeqpxrymep,drpgepj
azetmxmphdoeamj.deidAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezv.dmp
rooezxrpojdumyfdyfm.drhzjjljpy,drpxdrpgdtecqpyjjz.dr..eomryjxdumyfdyfj
azexqoymep,dazeleymepdrpxdxm.yzmkqymepdeidAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl
jcjoyzepmoduezv.,dfrzlcj..dizeldrccdcmrkmcmyg,doe.y.drpxdjbajp.j.,
mpocqxmphdcjhrcdijj.,dyfrydrzm.jdxmzjoycgdezdmpxmzjoycgdizeldrpgdei
yfjdiecceumphdufmofdgeqdxedezdorq.jdyedeooqz:d(r)dxm.yzmkqymepdeidyfm.
ezdrpgdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-ylduezv,d(k)drcyjzrymep,dlexmimorymep,dez
rxxmymep.dezdxjcjymep.dyedrpgdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-ylduezv,drpxd(o)drpg
Xjijoydgeqdorq.j 

.joymepd2 dMpiezlrymepdrkeqydyfjdLm..mepdeidAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl

AzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldm.d.gpepgleq.dumyfdyfjdizjjdxm.yzmkqymepdei
jcjoyzepmoduezv.dmpdiezlry.dzjrxrkcjdkgdyfjdumxj.ydtrzmjygdei
oelaqyjz.dmpocqxmphdek.ecjyj,decx,dlmxxcj-rhjxdrpxdpjudoelaqyjz. dMy
jbm.y.dkjorq.jdeidyfjdjiiezy.deidfqpxzjx.deidtecqpyjjz.drpxdxeprymep.
izeldajeacjdmpdrccdurcv.deidcmij 

Tecqpyjjz.drpxdimprpomrcd.qaaezydyedazetmxjdtecqpyjjz.dumyfdyfj
r..m.yrpojdyfjgdpjjxdrzjdozmymorcdyedzjrofmphdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl'.
herc.drpxdjp.qzmphdyfrydyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldoeccjoymepdumcc
zjlrmpdizjjcgdrtrmcrkcjdiezdhjpjzrymep.dyedoelj dMpd2001,dyfjdAzenjoy
HqyjpkjzhdCmyjzrzgdRzofmtjdIeqpxrymepdur.dozjryjxdyedazetmxjdrd.joqzj
rpxdajzlrpjpydiqyqzjdiezdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldrpxdiqyqzj
hjpjzrymep. dYedcjrzpdlezjdrkeqydyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdCmyjzrzg
RzofmtjdIeqpxrymepdrpxdfeudgeqzdjiiezy.drpxdxeprymep.dorpdfjca,d.jj
.joymep.d3drpxd4drpxdyfjdIeqpxrymepdmpiezlrymepdarhjdry
uuu hqyjpkjzh ezh



.joymepd3 dMpiezlrymepdrkeqydyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdCmyjzrzgdRzofmtjdIeqpxrymep

YfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdCmyjzrzgdRzofmtjdIeqpxrymepdm.drdpepdazeimy
501(o)(3)djxqorymeprcdoezaezrymepdezhrpmsjxdqpxjzdyfjdcru.deidyfj
.yryjdeidLm..m..maamdrpxdhzrpyjxdyrbdjbjlayd.yryq.dkgdyfjdMpyjzprc
Zjtjpqjd.jztmoj dYfjdIeqpxrymep'.dJMPdezdijxjzrcdyrbdmxjpymimorymep
pqlkjzdm.d64-6221541 dOepyzmkqymep.dyedyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdCmyjzrzg
RzofmtjdIeqpxrymepdrzjdyrbdxjxqoymkcjdyedyfjdiqccdjbyjpydajzlmyyjxdkg
Q . dijxjzrcdcru.drpxdgeqzd.yryj'.dcru. 

YfjdIeqpxrymep'.dazmpomarcdeiimojdm.dmpdIrmzkrpv.,dRcr.vr,dumyfdyfj
lrmcmphdrxxzj..:dAEdKebd750175,dIrmzkrpv.,dRVd99775,dkqydmy.
tecqpyjjz.drpxdjlacegjj.drzjd.oryyjzjxdyfzeqhfeqydpqljzeq.
ceorymep. dMy.dkq.mpj..deiimojdm.dceoryjxdryd809dPezyfd1500dUj.y,d.rcy
CrvjdOmyg,dQYd84116,d(801)d596-1887 dJlrmcdoepyroydcmpv.drpxdqadye
xryjdoepyroydmpiezlrymepdorpdkjdieqpxdrydyfjdIeqpxrymep'.dujkd.myjdrpx
eiimomrcdarhjdryduuu hqyjpkjzh ezh/oepyroy

Iezdrxxmymeprcdoepyroydmpiezlrymep:

ddddXz dHzjhezgdK dPjukg
ddddOfmjidJbjoqymtjdrpxdXmzjoyez
ddddhkpjukg@ahcri ezh

.joymepd4 dMpiezlrymepdrkeqydXeprymep.dyedyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh
CmyjzrzgdRzofmtjdIeqpxrymep

AzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldxjajpx.dqaepdrpxdorppeyd.qztmtjdumyfeqydumxj
.azjrxdaqkcmod.qaaezydrpxdxeprymep.dyedorzzgdeqydmy.dlm..mepdei
mpozjr.mphdyfjdpqlkjzdeidaqkcmodxelrmpdrpxdcmojp.jxduezv.dyfrydorpdkj
izjjcgdxm.yzmkqyjxdmpdlrofmpjdzjrxrkcjdiezldrooj..mkcjdkgdyfjdumxj.y
rzzrgdeidjwqmaljpydmpocqxmphdeqyxryjxdjwqmaljpy dLrpgd.lrccdxeprymep.
($1dyed$5,000)drzjdarzymoqcrzcgdmlaezyrpydyedlrmpyrmpmphdyrbdjbjlay
.yryq.dumyfdyfjdMZ. 

YfjdIeqpxrymepdm.doellmyyjxdyedoelacgmphdumyfdyfjdcru.dzjhqcrymph
ofrzmymj.drpxdofrzmyrkcjdxeprymep.dmpdrccd50d.yryj.deidyfjdQpmyjx
.yryj. dOelacmrpojdzjwqmzjljpy.drzjdpeydqpmiezldrpxdmydyrvj.dr
oep.mxjzrkcjdjiiezy,dlqofdarajzuezvdrpxdlrpgdijj.dyedljjydrpxdvjjadqa
umyfdyfj.jdzjwqmzjljpy. dUjdxedpeyd.ecmomydxeprymep.dmpdceorymep.
ufjzjdujdfrtjdpeydzjojmtjxduzmyyjpdoepimzlrymepdeidoelacmrpoj dYed.JPX
XEPRYMEP.dezdxjyjzlmpjdyfjd.yryq.deidoelacmrpojdiezdrpgdarzymoqcrz
.yryjdtm.myduuu hqyjpkjzh ezh/xepryj

Ufmcjdujdorppeydrpxdxedpeyd.ecmomydoepyzmkqymep.dizeld.yryj.dufjzjduj
frtjdpeydljydyfjd.ecmomyrymepdzjwqmzjljpy.,dujdvpeudeidpedazefmkmymep
rhrmp.ydroojaymphdqp.ecmomyjxdxeprymep.dizeldxepez.dmpd.qofd.yryj.dufe
raazerofdq.dumyfdeiijz.dyedxepryj 

Mpyjzprymeprcdxeprymep.drzjdhzryjiqccgdroojayjx,dkqydujdorppeydlrvj
rpgd.yryjljpy.doepojzpmphdyrbdyzjryljpydeidxeprymep.dzjojmtjxdizel
eqy.mxjdyfjdQpmyjxd.yryj. dQ . dcru.drcepjd.urladeqzd.lrccd.yrii 

Acjr.jdofjovdyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdUjkdarhj.diezdoqzzjpydxeprymep
ljyfex.drpxdrxxzj..j. dXeprymep.drzjdroojayjxdmpdrdpqlkjzdeideyfjz
urg.dmpocqxmphdofjov.,depcmpjdargljpy.drpxdozjxmydorzxdxeprymep. dYe
xepryj,dacjr.jdtm.my:duuu hqyjpkjzh ezh/xepryj

.joymepd5 dHjpjzrcdMpiezlrymepdRkeqydAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldjcjoyzepmoduezv. 

Azeij..ezdLmofrjcd. dFrzydur.dyfjdezmhmpryezdeidyfjdAzenjoy
Hqyjpkjzh-yldoepojaydeidrdcmkzrzgdeidjcjoyzepmoduezv.dyfrydoeqcxdkj
izjjcgd.frzjxdumyfdrpgepj dIezdiezygdgjrz.,dfjdazexqojxdrpx
xm.yzmkqyjxdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldjKeev.dumyfdepcgdrdcee.jdpjyuezvdei
tecqpyjjzd.qaaezy 

AzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yldjKeev.drzjdeiyjpdozjryjxdizeld.jtjzrcdazmpyjx
jxmymep.,drccdeidufmofdrzjdoepimzljxdr.dpeydazeyjoyjxdkgdoeagzmhfydmp
yfjdQ . dqpcj..drdoeagzmhfydpeymojdm.dmpocqxjx dYfq.,dujdxedpey
pjoj..rzmcgdvjjadjKeev.dmpdoelacmrpojdumyfdrpgdarzymoqcrzdarajz
jxmymep 

Le.ydajeacjd.yrzydrydeqzdUjkd.myjdufmofdfr.dyfjdlrmpdAHd.jrzof
iromcmyg:duuu hqyjpkjzh ezh

Yfm.dUjkd.myjdmpocqxj.dmpiezlrymepdrkeqydAzenjoydHqyjpkjzh-yl,
mpocqxmphdfeudyedlrvjdxeprymep.dyedyfjdAzenjoydHqyjpkjzhdCmyjzrzg
RzofmtjdIeqpxrymep,dfeudyedfjcadazexqojdeqzdpjudjKeev.,drpxdfeudye
.qk.ozmkjdyedeqzdjlrmcdpju.cjyyjzdyedfjrzdrkeqydpjudjKeev. 

