
S.tl uavteslIhstjxtuilTXaanlarlS.tlOpqtjshutylarlSawlYobktu,lEaw dtstlxk
WounlSbomjl(YowhtdlEdtwtjy)

S.myltXaanlmylrauls.tlhytlarlojkajtlojkb.tutlosljaleayslojplbms.lodways
jalutysumesmajylb.osyatqtuclKahlwoklea klms,limqtlmsloboklaulut-hyt
mslhjptuls.tlstuwylarls.tl uavteslIhstjxtuilDmetjytlmjedhptplbms.ls.my
tXaanlaulajdmjtloslbbbcihstjxtuicjts

Smsdt:lS.tlOpqtjshutylarlSawlYobktu,lEaw dtst

Ohs.au:lWounlSbomjl(YowhtdlEdtwtjy)

UtdtoytlPost:lOhihysl20,l2006l[TXaanl#74]
DoyslH postp:lRtxuhoukl23,l2018

Dojihoit:lTjidmy.

E.ouoestulytsltjeapmji:lHSR-8

***lYSOUSlARlS.MYl UAVTESlIHSTJXTUIlTXAANlSAWlYOBKTUl***

 uaphetplxklPoqmplBmpitu





S.TlOPQTJSHUTYlARlSAWlYOBKTU

XklWounlSbomj

(YowhtdlDoji.aujtlEdtwtjy)




EAJSTJSY

E.O STUlMclK-a-h-hlSaw-Ohjsl addklPtemptylH ajl.tulPhsk--Sawl uoesmety
Whyme--S.tlE.oddtjit--Ol umqostlTjsuojet

E.O STUlMMclYsuajilStw sosmajy--YsuostimelWaqtwtjsy--S.tlMjjaetjsy
Xtihmdtp

E.O STUlMMMclSawloylolItjtuod--Sumhw .lojplUtboup--Pmywod
Rtdmemsk--EawwmyymajlojplAwmyymaj

E.O STUlMQclWtjsodlOeuaxosmey--OsstjpmjilYhjpok--Ye.aad--S.t
Yh tumjstjptjs--“Y.abmjilarr”--SawlDmajmftp

E.O STUlQclOlHytrhdlWmjmystu--MjlE.hue.--S.tlEdmwoz

E.O STUlQMclYtdr-Tzowmjosmaj--Ptjsmysuk--S.tlWmpjmi.slE.ouw--Bmse.tylojp
Ptqmdy--EohsmahylO  uaoe.ty--.o  kl.ahuy

E.O STUlQMMclOlSutosklTjstutplMjsa--ToudklDtyyajy--OlWmysontlWopt

E.O STUlQMMMclSawlPtemptylajl.mylEahuyt--AdplYetjtylUt-tjoestp

E.O STUlMZclOlYadtwjlYmshosmaj--IuoqtlYhxvtesylMjsuaphetp--MjvhjlVat
Tz domjy

E.O STUlZclS.tlYadtwjlAos.--StuuaulXumjiylUt tjsojet--Wtjsodl hjmy.wtjs

E.O STUlZMclWhrrl asstulEawtyl.mwytdr--Saw'ylEajyemtjetloslBaun

E.O STUlZMMclSawlY.abyl.mylItjtuaymsk--Ohjsl addklBtontjy

E.O STUlZMMMclS.tlKahjil muosty--Iamjilsals.tlUtjptfqahy--S.tlEow --Rmut
Sodn

E.O STUlZMQclEow -Dmrt--OlYtjyosmaj--SawlYstodylOboklruawlEow 

E.O STUlZQclSawlUteajjamstuy--Dtoujyls.tlYmshosmaj--Ut ausyloslEow 

E.O STUlZQMclOlPok'ylOwhytwtjsy--SawlUtqtodylolYteuts--S.tl muostylsontlo
Dtyyaj--OlJmi.slYhu umyt--OjlMjpmojlBou

E.O STUlZQMMclWtwaumtylarls.tlDaysl.tuaty--S.tl amjslmjlSaw'ylYteuts

E.O STUlZQMMMclSaw'ylRttdmjiylMjqtysmiostp--BajpturhdlPutow--Xtenk
S.ose.tulAqtuy.opabtp--SawlXteawtylVtodahy--XdoenlUtqtjit

E.O STUlZMZclSawlStddyls.tlSuhs.

E.O STUlZZclXtenklmjlolPmdtwwo--Saw'ylJaxmdmsklOyytusylMsytdr

E.O STUlZZMclKahs.rhdlTdaghtjet--Eaw aymsmajylxkls.tlKahjilDopmty--O
Dtjis.klQmymaj--S.tlXak'ylQtjitojetlYosmyrmtp

E.O STUlZZMMclSaw'ylEajrmptjetlXtsuoktp--Tz tesylYmijodl hjmy.wtjs

E.O STUlZZMMMclAdplWhrr'ylRumtjpy--Whrrl asstulmjlEahus--Whrrl asstu
Yoqtp

E.O STUlZZMQclSawloyls.tlQmddoitl.tua--PokylarlY dtjpaulojplJmi.sylar
.auuau-- huyhmslarlMjvhjlVat

E.O STUlZZQclOxahslNmjiylojplPmowajpy--Ytoue.lrauls.tlSutoyhut--Ptop
 ta dtlojplI.aysy

E.O STUlZZQMclS.tl.ohjstpl.ahyt--Ydtt klI.aysy--OlXazlarlIadp--XmsstulDhen

E.O STUlZZQMMclPahxsylsalxtlYtssdtp--S.tlKahjilPtstesmqty

E.O STUlZZQMMMclOjlOsstw sloslJaclSba--.henlWahjsylIhoup

E.O STUlZZMZclS.tl me-jme--.henlajlMjvhjlVat'ylSuoen--S.tl“Utqtjit”
lVax--Omplrauls.tlBmpab

E.O STUlZZZclS.tlBtde.wojlUt ausy--.henlHjptulRmut--S.tlYsauklEmuehdostp
--OlJtblYtjyosmaj--.a tlImqmjilBoklsalPty omu

E.O STUlZZZMclOjlTz daumjilTz tpmsmaj--SuahxdtlEawwtjety--Dayslmjls.t
Eoqt--SasodlPounjtyy--RahjplxhsljaslYoqtp

E.O STUlZZZMMclSawlstddyls.tlYsauklarls.tmulTyeo t--Saw'ylTjtwklmjlYort
Ghoustuy

E.O STUlZZZMMMclS.tlRostlarlMjvhjlVat--.henlojplSawlEaw outlJasty
--OjlTz tpmsmajlsals.tlEoqt-- uastesmajlOiomjyslI.aysy--“OjlObrhdlYjhi
 doet”--OlUtet smajlosls.tlBmpablPahidoy'y

E.O STUlZZZMQclY umjimjilolYteuts--WuclVajty'lYhu umytlolRomdhut

E.O STUlZZZQclOlJtblAuptularlS.mjiy-- aaul.hen--JtblOpqtjshutyl dojjtp




MDDHYSUOSMAJY

SawlYobktu

Sawlosl.awt

Ohjsl addklXtihmdtp

OlIaaplA  aushjmsk

B.a'ylOruomp

Dostl.awt

Vmw

'Stjpmj'lsalXhymjtyy

Omj'sls.oslBaun?

EoslojplSaky

Owhytwtjs

XtenklS.ose.tu

 okmjilArr

Orstuls.tlXossdt

“Y.abmjilArr”

JaslOwmyy

Wouk

SawlEajstw dosmji

Pow tjtplOupau

Kahs.

Xak.aap

Hymjils.tl“Xoudab”

S.tlE.hue.

Jtetyymsmty

SawloylolYhjpok-Ye.aadl.tua    

S.tl umft

OslE.hue.

S.tlWaptdlXak

S.tlE.hue.lE.amu

OlYmptlY.ab

Utyhdslarl dokmjilmjlE.hue.

S.tl mje.-Xhi

Ymp

Ptjsmysuk

.hendtxtuuklRmjj

Was.tul.a nmjy

UtyhdslarlSaw'ylSuhs.rhdjtyy

SawloylojlOusmys

Mjstuuh stplEahusy.m 

S.tlWoystu

Qomjl dtopmji

Somdl mtet

S.tlIuoqtlmjls.tlBaapy

SawlWtpmsosty

Uaxmjl.aaplojpl.mylRat

Ptos.larlUaxmjl.aap

Wmpjmi.s

Saw'ylWaptlarlTiutyy

Saw'ylTrrauslosl uoktu

Whrrl asstulAhsbmsstp

S.tlIuoqtkoup

Rautboujmjiy

PmyshuxmjilWhrr'ylYdtt 

Saw'ylSodnlbms.l.mylOhjs

Whrrl asstu

OlYhy memahylMjemptjs

MjvhjlVat'ylsbalQmesmwy

Mjls.tlEamdy

 tstu

Ohjsl addklyttnylMjrauwosmaj

OlItjtuodlIaaplSmwt

Ptwauodmftp

Vatl.ou tu

AjlXaouplS.tmulRmuysl umft

S.tl muostylOy.aut

BmdplDmrt

S.tl muost'ylXos.

S.tl dtoyojslYsuadd

S.tlYtoue.lrauls.tlPuabjtp

S.tlWkystumahylBumsmji

UmqtulQmtb

B.oslSawlYob

SawlYbmwyls.tlUmqtu

SonmjilDtyyajy

S.tl muosty'lTiilWounts

SawlDaanmjilraulVat'ylNjmrt    

S.tlS.hjptulYsauw

StuumxdtlYdohi.stu

S.tlWahujtu

Saw'yl uahptyslWawtjs

OwklDobutjet

SawlsumtylsalUtwtwxtu

S.tl.tua

OlRdmusosmaj

XtenklUtsodmosty

OlYhpptjlRuays

Eahjstu-muumsosmaj

Ohjsl addk

Sawlvhysmrmtp

S.tlPmyeaqtuk

Eohi.slmjls.tlOes

SawlOysajmy.tyls.tlYe.aad

Dmstuoshut

SawlPtedomwy

TzowmjosmajlTqtjmji

AjlTz.mxmsmaj

 umftlOhs.auy

S.tlWoystu'ylPmdtwwo

S.tlYe.aadl.ahyt

S.tlEopts

.o  klraulSbalPoky

Tjvakmjils.tlQoeosmaj

S.tlYsadtjlWtdajy

S.tlVhpit

Qmymsmjils.tl umyajtu

SawlYbtouy

S.tlEahuslUaaw

S.tlPtstesmqt

SawlPutowy

S.tlSutoyhut

S.tl umqostlEajrtutjet

OlNmji;l aaulRtddab!

Xhymjtyy

S.tl.o'jstpl.ahyt

MjvhjlVat

S.tlIutostyslojplXtys

.mpptjlSutoyhutylHjtous.tp

S.tlXak'ylYodqosmaj

UaawlJacl2

S.tlJtzslPok'ylEajrtutjet

Sutoyhuty

HjedtlVont

Xhenlosl.awt

S.tl.ohjstplUaaw

“UhjlraulKahulDmrt”

WePahiod'ylEoqt

Mjymptls.tlEoqt

.henlajlPhsk

OlUahymjilOes

Somdl mtet

S.tlBtde.woj

UtyhdslarlolYjttft

Eaujtutp

OdouwmjilPmyeaqtumty

SawlojplXtenklysmulh ls.tlSabj

Saw'ylWouny

.henlGhtysmajyls.tlBmpab

Qow muty

Bajptuylarls.tlEoqt

OssoentplxklJosmqty

Pty omu

S.tlBtppmjilEont

OlJtblStuuau

Pokdmi.s

“ShujlAhs”lsalUtetmqtlSawlojplXtenk

S.tlTyeo tlruawls.tlEoqt

Rostlarls.tlUoiitplWoj

S.tlSutoyhutylRahjp

Eohi.sloslDoys

Pua lorstulPua 

.oqmjilolIaaplSmwt

OlXhymjtyylSum 

“IaslmsloslDoys!”

Somdl mtet

BmpablPahidoy

SawlXoenyl.mylYsostwtjs

Somdl mtet

.henlSuojyrauwtp

EawrausoxdtlAjetlWaut

.mi.lh lmjlYaemtsk

Eajstjswtjs




 UTROET

Wayslarls.tlopqtjshutyluteauptplmjls.mylxaanlutoddklaeehuutp;lajtlaulsba
btutltz tumtjetylarlwklabj,ls.tlutysls.aytlarlxakylb.albtutlye.aadwosty
arlwmjtcl.henlRmjjlmylpuobjlruawldmrt;lSawlYobktulodya,lxhsljaslruawloj
mjpmqmphod--.tlmyloleawxmjosmajlarls.tle.ouoestumysmeylarls.uttlxakylb.aw
Mlnjtb,lojpls.tutrautlxtdajiylsals.tleaw aymstlauptularloue.msteshutc

S.tlapplyh tuysmsmajylsahe.tplh ajlbtutloddl utqodtjslowajile.mdputjlojp
ydoqtylmjls.tlBtyslosls.tl tumaplarls.mylysauk--s.oslmylsalyok,ls.musklau
rausklktouyloiac

Ods.ahi.lwklxaanlmylmjstjptplwomjdklrauls.tltjstusomjwtjslarlxakylojp
imudy,lMl.a tlmslbmddljaslxtly.hjjtplxklwtjlojplbawtjlajls.osloeeahjs,
raul ouslarlwkl dojl.oylxttjlsalsuklsal dtoyojsdklutwmjplophdsylarlb.os
s.tklajetlbtutls.twytdqty,lojplarl.abls.tklrtdslojpls.ahi.slojplsodntp,
ojplb.oslghttultjstu umytyls.tklyawtsmwtyltjioitplmjc

S.TlOHS.AUc

.OUSRAUP,l1876c




E.O STUlM

“SAW!”

Jalojybtuc

“SAW!”

Jalojybtuc

“B.os'yliajtlbms.ls.oslxak,l Mlbajptu?lKahlSAW!”

Jalojybtuc

S.tladpldopkl hddtpl.tuly tesoedtylpabjlojpldaantplaqtuls.twloxahsls.t
uaaw;ls.tjly.tl hsls.twlh lojpldaantplahslhjptuls.twclY.tlytdpawlau
jtqtuldaantpl_s.uahi._ls.twlraulyalywoddlols.mjiloylolxak;ls.tklbtut
.tulysostl omu,ls.tl umptlarl.tul.tous,lojplbtutlxhmdslraul“yskdt,”ljas
ytuqmet--y.tleahdpl.oqtlyttjls.uahi.lol omularlysaqt-dmpylvhysloylbtddc
Y.tldaantpl tu dtztplraulolwawtjs,lojpls.tjlyomp,ljaslrmtuetdk,lxhs
ysmddldahpltjahi.lrauls.tlrhujmshutlsal.tou:

“Btdd,lMldoklmrlMlitsl.adplarlkahlM'dd--”

Y.tlpmpljaslrmjmy.,lraulxkls.mylsmwtly.tlboylxtjpmjilpabjlojpl hje.mji
hjptuls.tlxtplbms.ls.tlxuaaw,lojplyaly.tljttptplxutos.lsal hjeshostls.t
 hje.tylbms.clY.tlutyhuutestpljas.mjilxhsls.tleosc

“Mljtqtulpmplyttls.tlxtoslarls.oslxak!”

Y.tlbtjslsals.tla tjlpaaulojplysaaplmjlmslojpldaantplahslowajils.t
sawosalqmjtylojpl“vmw yaj”lbttpyls.osleajysmshstpls.tliouptjclJalSawclYa
y.tldmrstplh l.tulqametloslojlojidtleodehdostplraulpmysojetlojply.ahstp:

“K-a-h-hlSAW!”

S.tutlboylolydmi.sljamytlxt.mjpl.tulojply.tlshujtplvhyslmjlsmwtlsalytmft
olywoddlxaklxkls.tlydoenlarl.myluahjpoxahslojplouutysl.mylrdmi.sc

“S.tut!lMlwmi.sl'o'ls.ahi.slarls.osledaytsclB.oslkahlxttjlpamjilmj
s.tut?”

“Jas.mjic”

“Jas.mji!lDaanloslkahul.ojpyclOjpldaanloslkahulwahs.clB.osl_my_ls.os
suhen?”

“Mlpaj'slnjab,lohjsc”

“Btdd,lMlnjabclMs'ylvow--s.os'ylb.oslmslmyclRausklsmwtylM'qtlyomplmrlkah
pmpj'sldtsls.oslvowlodajtlM'plynmjlkahcl.ojplwtls.oslybmse.c”

S.tlybmse.l.aqtutplmjls.tlomu--s.tl tumdlboylpty tuost--

“Wk!lDaanlxt.mjplkah,lohjs!”

S.tladpldopklb.mudtpluahjp,lojplyjose.tpl.tulynmusylahslarlpojituc
S.tldoplrdtplajls.tlmjysojs,lyeuowxdtplh ls.tl.mi.lxaoup-rtjet,lojp
pmyo  toutplaqtulmsc

.mylohjsl addklysaaplyhu umytplolwawtjs,lojpls.tjlxuantlmjsalolitjsdt
dohi.c

“.ojils.tlxak,leoj'slMljtqtuldtoujlojks.mji?lOmj'sl.tl doktplwtlsumeny
tjahi.ldmntls.oslraulwtlsalxtldaanmjilahslraul.mwlxkls.mylsmwt?lXhsladp
raadylmyls.tlxmiityslraadyls.tutlmyclEoj'sldtoujlojladplpailjtblsumeny,
oyls.tlyokmjilmyclXhslwkliaapjtyy,l.tljtqtul dokyls.twlodmnt,lsbalpoky,
ojpl.ablmylolxapklsalnjablb.os'yleawmji?l.tl' touylsalnjablvhysl.abldaji
.tleojlsauwtjslwtlxtrautlMlitslwklpojptulh ,lojpl.tlnjabylmrl.tleojlwont
ahslsal hslwtlarrlraulolwmjhstlaulwontlwtldohi.,lms'yloddlpabjloiomjlojp
Mleoj'sl.msl.mwloldmenclMlomj'slpamjilwklphsklxkls.oslxak,lojpls.os'y
s.tlDaup'ylsuhs.,liaapjtyylnjabyclY outls.tluaplojply mdtls.tle.mdp,
oyls.tlIaaplXaanlyokyclM'wloldokmjilh lymjlojplyhrrtumjilraulhylxas.,
Mlnjabcl.t'ylrhddlarls.tlAdplYeuose.,lxhsldoby-o-wt!l.t'ylwklabj
ptoplymystu'ylxak,l aauls.mji,lojplMlomj'sliasls.tl.touslsaldoy.l.mw,
yawt.abclTqtuklsmwtlMldtsl.mwlarr,lwkleajyemtjetlpatyl.huslwtlya,lojp
tqtuklsmwtlMl.msl.mwlwkladpl.touslwayslxutonyclBtdd-o-btdd,lwojls.oslmy
xaujlarlbawojlmylarlrtblpokylojplrhddlarlsuahxdt,loyls.tlYeum shut
yoky,lojplMlutenajlms'ylyacl.t'ddl dokl.aantkls.myltqtjmji,l*lojpl[*
Yahs.btystujlraul“orstujaaj”]lM'ddlvhyslxtlaxdttitplsalwontl.mwlbaun,
sawauuab,lsal hjmy.l.mwclMs'ylwmi.skl.ouplsalwontl.mwlbaunlYoshupoky,
b.tjloddls.tlxakylmyl.oqmjil.admpok,lxhsl.tl.ostylbaunlwautls.ojl.t
.ostylojks.mjiltdyt,lojplM'qtl_ias_lsalpalyawtlarlwklphsklxkl.mw,lau
M'ddlxtls.tluhmjosmajlarls.tle.mdpc”

Sawlpmpl dokl.aantk,lojpl.tl.oplolqtukliaaplsmwtcl.tliaslxoenl.awt
xoutdklmjlytoyajlsal.td lVmw,ls.tlywoddleadautplxak,lyobljtzs-pok'ylbaap
ojply dmsls.tlnmjpdmjiylxtrautlyh  tu--osldtoysl.tlboyls.tutlmjlsmwt
salstddl.mylopqtjshutylsalVmwlb.mdtlVmwlpmpls.utt-rahus.ylarls.tlbaunc
Saw'ylkahjitulxuas.tul(auluos.tul.odr-xuas.tu)lYmplboylodutopkls.uahi.
bms.l.myl ouslarls.tlbaunl( menmjilh le.m y),lraul.tlboylolghmtslxak,
ojpl.opljalopqtjshuahy,lsuahxdt-yawtlbokyc

B.mdtlSawlboyltosmjil.mylyh  tu,lojplystodmjilyhiouloyla  aushjmsk
arrtutp,lOhjsl addkloyntpl.mwlghtysmajyls.oslbtutlrhddlarlihmdt,lojp
qtuklptt --rauly.tlbojstplsalsuo l.mwlmjsalpowoimjilutqtodwtjsyclDmnt
wojklas.tulymw dt-.toustplyahdy,lmslboyl.tul tslqojmsklsalxtdmtqtly.t
boyltjpabtplbms.lolsodtjslraulpounlojplwkystumahylpm dawoek,lojply.t
daqtplsaleajstw dostl.tulwayslsuojy outjslptqmetyloylwouqtdylarldab
ehjjmjiclYomply.t:

“Saw,lmslboylwmppdmjilbouwlmjlye.aad,lbouj'slms?”

“Kty'wc”

“ abturhdlbouw,lbouj'slms?”

“Kty'wc”

“Pmpj'slkahlbojslsalialmjlo-ybmwwmji,lSaw?”

Olxmslarlolyeoutly.asls.uahi.lSaw--olsahe.larlhjeawrausoxdtlyhy memajcl.t
ytoue.tplOhjsl addk'ylroet,lxhslmslsadpl.mwljas.mjiclYal.tlyomp:

“Ja'w--btdd,ljaslqtuklwhe.c”

S.tladpldopklutoe.tplahsl.tul.ojplojplrtdslSaw'yly.mus,lojplyomp:

“Xhslkahlomj'slsaalbouwljab,ls.ahi.c”lOjplmslrdosstutpl.tulsalutrdtes
s.osly.tl.oplpmyeaqtutpls.osls.tly.muslboylpuklbms.ahslojkxapklnjabmji
s.osls.oslboylb.osly.tl.oplmjl.tulwmjpclXhslmjly mstlarl.tu,lSawlnjtb
b.tutls.tlbmjpldok,ljabclYal.tlrautysoddtplb.oslwmi.slxtls.tljtzslwaqt:

“Yawtlarlhyl hw tplajlahul.topy--wmjt'ylpow lktsclYtt?”

Ohjsl addklboylqtztplsals.mjnly.tl.oplaqtudaantpls.oslxmslar
emuehwysojsmodltqmptjet,lojplwmyytplolsumenclS.tjly.tl.oploljtb
mjy muosmaj:

“Saw,lkahlpmpj'sl.oqtlsalhjpalkahuly.musleaddoulb.tutlMlytbtplms,lsa
 hw lajlkahul.top,lpmplkah?lHjxhssajlkahulvoents!”

S.tlsuahxdtlqojmy.tplahslarlSaw'ylroetcl.tla tjtpl.mylvoentscl.myly.mus
eaddoulboylytehutdklytbtpc

“Xas.tu!lBtdd,lial'dajilbms.lkahclM'plwoptlyhutlkah'pl doktpl.aantk
ojplxttjlo-ybmwwmjiclXhslMlrauimqtlkt,lSawclMlutenajlkah'utlolnmjplarlo
ymjitpleos,loyls.tlyokmjilmy--xtsstu'jlkahldaancl_S.my_lsmwtc”

Y.tlboyl.odrlyauukl.tulyoioemskl.oplwmyeouumtp,lojpl.odrlidopls.oslSaw
.oplyshwxdtplmjsalaxtpmtjsleajpheslraulajetc

XhslYmpjtklyomp:

“Btdd,ljab,lmrlMlpmpj'sls.mjnlkahlytbtpl.myleaddoulbms.lb.mstls.utop,
xhslms'ylxdoenc”

“B.k,lMlpmplytblmslbms.lb.mst!lSaw!”

XhslSawlpmpljaslbomslrauls.tlutysclOyl.tlbtjslahslosls.tlpaaul.tlyomp:

“Ymppk,lM'ddldmenlkahlrauls.osc”

Mjlolyortl doetlSawltzowmjtplsbaldouitljttpdtylb.me.lbtutls.uhyslmjsa
s.tldo tdylarl.mylvoents,lojpl.opls.utoplxahjploxahsls.tw--ajtljttpdt
eouumtplb.mstls.utoplojpls.tlas.tulxdoencl.tlyomp:

“Y.t'pljtqtuljasmetplmrlmsl.opj'slxttjlraulYmpclEajrahjplms!lyawtsmwty
y.tlytbylmslbms.lb.mst,lojplyawtsmwtyly.tlytbylmslbms.lxdoenclMlbmy.lsa
itt-wmjkly.t'plysmenlsalajtlauls'as.tu--Mleoj'slntt ls.tluhjlarl'twclXhs
MlxtslkahlM'ddldowlYmplrauls.osclM'ddldtoujl.mw!”

.tlboyljasls.tlWaptdlXaklarls.tlqmddoitcl.tlnjtbls.tlwaptdlxaklqtuklbtdd
s.ahi.--ojpldaos.tpl.mwc

Bms.mjlsbalwmjhsty,laultqtjldtyy,l.tl.oplrauiasstjloddl.mylsuahxdtyclJas
xteohytl.mylsuahxdtylbtutlajtlb.msldtyyl.toqklojplxmsstulsal.mwls.ojlo
woj'yloutlsalolwoj,lxhslxteohytloljtblojpl abturhdlmjstutyslxaut
s.twlpabjlojplpuaqtls.twlahslarl.mylwmjplrauls.tlsmwt--vhysloylwtj'y
wmyraushjtyloutlrauiasstjlmjls.tltzemstwtjslarljtbltjstu umytyclS.myljtb
mjstutyslboylolqodhtpljaqtdsklmjlb.mysdmji,lb.me.l.tl.oplvhysloeghmutp
ruawloljtiua,lojpl.tlboylyhrrtumjilsal uoesmytlmslhj-pmyshuxtpclMs
eajymystplmjlol tehdmoulxmup-dmntlshuj,lolyauslarldmghmplbouxdt,
 uaphetplxklsahe.mjils.tlsajihtlsals.tluaarlarls.tlwahs.losly.aus
mjstuqodylmjls.tlwmpyslarls.tlwhyme--s.tlutoptul uaxoxdklutwtwxtuyl.ablsa
palms,lmrl.tl.oyltqtulxttjlolxakclPmdmitjetlojplosstjsmajlyaajlioqtl.mw
s.tlnjoenlarlms,lojpl.tlysuaptlpabjls.tlysuttslbms.l.mylwahs.lrhddlar
.ouwajklojpl.mylyahdlrhddlarliuosmshptcl.tlrtdslwhe.loylojloysuajawtu
rttdylb.al.oylpmyeaqtutploljtbl dojts--jalpahxs,loylrouloylysuaji,lptt ,
hjoddaktpl dtoyhutlmyleajetujtp,ls.tlopqojsoitlboylbms.ls.tlxak,ljasls.t
oysuajawtuc

S.tlyhwwtultqtjmjiylbtutldajiclMslboyljaslpoun,lktscl utytjsdklSaw
e.tentpl.mylb.mysdtclOlysuojitulboylxtrautl.mw--olxakloly.optldouitu
s.ojl.mwytdrclOljtb-eawtularlojkloitlaultms.tulytzlboylojlmw- utyymqt
ehumaymsklmjls.tl aauldmssdtly.oxxklqmddoitlarlYscl tstuyxhuiclS.mylxak
boylbtddlputyytp,lsaa--btddlputyytplajlolbttn-pokclS.mylboylymw dkloy
oysahjpmjicl.myleo lboylolpomjskls.mji,l.myledayt-xhssajtplxdhtledas.
uahjpoxahslboyljtblojpljossk,lojplyalbtutl.myl ojsodaajycl.tl.oply.aty
aj--ojplmslboylajdklRumpokcl.tltqtjlbautloljtensmt,lolxumi.slxmslar
umxxajcl.tl.oplolemsmrmtplomuloxahsl.mwls.oslostlmjsalSaw'ylqmsodyclS.t
wautlSawlysoutplosls.tly dtjpmplwouqtd,ls.tl.mi.tul.tlshujtplh l.myljayt
osl.mylrmjtuklojpls.tly.oxxmtulojply.oxxmtul.mylabjlahsrmslyttwtplsa
.mwlsaliuabclJtms.tulxakly antclMrlajtlwaqtp,ls.tlas.tulwaqtp--xhslajdk
ymptbmyt,lmjlolemuedt;ls.tklnt slroetlsalroetlojpltktlsaltktloddls.t
smwtclRmjoddklSawlyomp:

“Mleojldmenlkah!”

“M'pldmntlsalyttlkahlsuklmsc”

“Btdd,lMleojlpalmsc”

“Jalkahleoj's,ltms.tuc”

“KtylMleojc”

“Jalkahleoj'sc”

“Mleojc”

“Kahleoj'sc”

“Eoj!”

“Eoj's!”

Ojlhjeawrausoxdtl ohytclS.tjlSawlyomp:

“B.os'ylkahuljowt?”

“'Smyj'slojklarlkahulxhymjtyy,lwokxtc”

“BtddlMl'dablM'ddl_wont_lmslwklxhymjtyyc”

“Btddlb.klpaj'slkah?”

“Mrlkahlyoklwhe.,lMlbmddc”

“Whe.--whe.--_whe._clS.tutljabc”

“A.,lkahls.mjnlkah'utlwmi.sklywous,l_paj's_lkah?lMleahdpldmenlkahlbms.
ajtl.ojplsmtplxt.mjplwt,lmrlMlbojstplsac”

“Btddlb.klpaj'slkahl_pa_lms?lKahl_yok_lkahleojlpalmsc”

“BtddlMl_bmdd_,lmrlkahlraadlbms.lwtc”

“A.lkty--M'qtlyttjlb.adtlrowmdmtylmjls.tlyowtlrmzc”

“Ywousk!lKahls.mjnlkah'utl_yawt_,ljab,l_paj's_lkah?lA.,lb.oslol.os!”

“Kahleojldhw ls.osl.oslmrlkahlpaj'sldmntlmsclMlpoutlkahlsalnjaenlms
arr--ojplojkxapkls.os'ddlsontlolpoutlbmddlyhenltiiyc”

“Kah'utloldmou!”

“Kah'utlojas.tuc”

“Kah'utlolrmi.smjildmoulojplpoyj'slsontlmslh c”

“Ob--sontlolbodn!”

“Yok--mrlkahlimqtlwtlwhe.lwautlarlkahulyoyylM'ddlsontlojplxahjetloluaen
arr'jlkahul.topc”

“A.,larl_eahuyt_lkahlbmddc”

“BtddlMl_bmdd_c”

“Btddlb.klpaj'slkahl_pa_lmsls.tj?lB.oslpalkahlntt l_yokmji_lkahlbmdd
rau?lB.klpaj'slkahl_pa_lms?lMs'ylxteohytlkah'utloruompc”

“Ml_omj's_loruompc”

“Kahloutc”

“Mlomj'sc”

“Kahloutc”

Ojas.tul ohyt,lojplwautltkmjilojplympdmjilouahjpltoe.las.tucl utytjsdk
s.tklbtutly.ahdptulsaly.ahdptuclSawlyomp:

“Itsloboklruawl.tut!”

“Ialoboklkahuytdr!”

“Mlbaj'sc”

“Mlbaj'sltms.tuc”

Yals.tklysaap,ltoe.lbms.lolraasl doetploslojlojidtloylolxuoet,lojplxas.
y.aqmjilbms.lwmi.slojplwomj,lojplidabtumjilosltoe.las.tulbms.l.ostclXhs
jtms.tuleahdplitslojlopqojsoitclOrstulysuhiidmjilsmddlxas.lbtutl.aslojp
rdhy.tp,ltoe.lutdoztpl.mylysuomjlbms.lbose.rhdleohsmaj,lojplSawlyomp:

“Kah'utloleabouplojplol h clM'ddlstddlwklxmilxuas.tulajlkah,lojpl.tleoj
s.uoy.lkahlbms.l.myldmssdtlrmjitu,lojplM'ddlwontl.mwlpalms,lsaac”

“B.oslpalMleoutlraulkahulxmilxuas.tu?lM'qtliaslolxuas.tuls.os'ylxmiitu
s.ojl.tlmy--ojplb.os'ylwaut,l.tleojls.uabl.mwlaqtuls.oslrtjet,lsaac”
l[Xas.lxuas.tuylbtutlmwoimjoukc]

“S.os'yloldmtc”

“_Kahu_lyokmjilyalpaj'slwontlmslyac”

Sawlputbloldmjtlmjls.tlphyslbms.l.mylxmilsat,lojplyomp:

“Mlpoutlkahlsalyst laqtuls.os,lojplM'ddldmenlkahlsmddlkahleoj'slysojp
h clOjkxapkls.os'ddlsontlolpoutlbmddlystodly.tt c”

S.tljtblxaklyst  tplaqtul uaw sdk,lojplyomp:

“Jablkahlyomplkah'plpalms,ljabldts'ylyttlkahlpalmsc”

“Paj'slkahleuabplwtljab;lkahlxtsstuldaanlahsc”

“Btdd,lkahl_yomp_lkah'plpalms--b.klpaj'slkahlpalms?”

“Xklvmjia!lraulsbaletjsylMl_bmdd_lpalmsc”

S.tljtblxaklsaanlsbalxuaoplea  tuylahslarl.myl aentslojpl.tdpls.twlahs
bms.lptumymajclSawlysuhenls.twlsals.tliuahjpclMjlojlmjysojslxas.lxaky
btutluaddmjilojplshwxdmjilmjls.tlpmus,lium  tplsaits.tuldmntleosy;lojp
rauls.tly oetlarlolwmjhstls.tklshiitplojplsautlosltoe.las.tu'yl.omulojp
edas.ty,l hje.tplojplyeuose.tpltoe.las.tu'yljayt,lojpleaqtutpls.twytdqty
bms.lphyslojplidaukcl utytjsdkls.tleajrhymajlsaanlrauw,lojpls.uahi.ls.t
railarlxossdtlSawlo  toutp,lytostploysumptls.tljtblxak,lojpl ahjpmjil.mw
bms.l.mylrmysycl“.addtul'jhrr!”lyompl.tc

S.tlxaklajdklysuhiidtplsalruttl.mwytdrcl.tlboyleukmji--womjdklruawluoitc

“.addtul'jhrr!”--ojpls.tl ahjpmjilbtjslajc

Osldoysls.tlysuojituliaslahslolywas.tutpl“'Jhrr!”lojplSawldtsl.mwlh lojp
yomp:

“Jabls.os'ddldtoujlkahclXtsstuldaanlahslb.alkah'utlraadmjilbms.ljtzs
smwtc”

S.tljtblxaklbtjslarrlxuhy.mjils.tlphyslruawl.myledas.ty,lyaxxmji,
yjhrrdmji,lojplaeeoymajoddkldaanmjilxoenlojply.onmjil.myl.toplojp
s.utostjmjilb.osl.tlbahdplpalsalSawls.tl“jtzslsmwtl.tleohi.sl.mwlahsc”
lSalb.me.lSawluty ajptplbms.lvttuy,lojplysoustplarrlmjl.mi.lrtos.tu,lojp
oylyaajloyl.mylxoenlboylshujtpls.tljtblxaklyjose.tplh lolysajt,ls.utblms
ojpl.msl.mwlxtsbttjls.tly.ahdptuylojpls.tjlshujtplsomdlojpluojldmnt
ojlojstda tclSawle.oytpls.tlsuomsaul.awt,lojpls.hylrahjplahslb.tutl.t
dmqtpcl.tls.tjl.tdplol aymsmajlosls.tliostlraulyawtlsmwt,lpoumjils.t
tjtwklsaleawtlahsympt,lxhsls.tltjtwklajdklwoptlroetylosl.mwls.uahi.ls.t
bmjpablojplptedmjtpclOsldoysls.tltjtwk'ylwas.tulo  toutp,lojpleoddtplSaw
olxop,lqmemahy,lqhdioule.mdp,lojplauptutpl.mwlobokclYal.tlbtjslobok;lxhs
.tlyompl.tl“'dabtp”lsal“dok”lrauls.oslxakc

.tliasl.awtl utsskldostls.osljmi.s,lojplb.tjl.tledmwxtpleohsmahydklmj
osls.tlbmjpab,l.tlhjeaqtutplojlowxhyeopt,lmjls.tl tuyajlarl.mylohjs;lojp
b.tjly.tlyobls.tlysostl.myledas.tylbtutlmjl.tulutyadhsmajlsalshujl.my
Yoshupokl.admpoklmjsaleo smqmsklosl.oupldoxaulxteowtlopowojsmjtlmjlmsy
rmuwjtyyc




E.O STUlMM

YOSHUPOKlwaujmjilboyleawt,lojploddls.tlyhwwtulbaudplboylxumi.slojp
ruty.,lojplxumwwmjilbms.ldmrtclS.tutlboylolyajilmjltqtukl.tous;lojplmr
s.tl.touslboylkahjils.tlwhymelmyyhtplosls.tldm yclS.tutlboyle.ttulmj
tqtuklroetlojploly umjilmjltqtuklyst clS.tldaehys-suttylbtutlmjlxdaaw
ojpls.tlruoiuojetlarls.tlxdayyawylrmddtpls.tlomuclEoupmrrl.mdd,lxtkajp
s.tlqmddoitlojploxaqtlms,lboyliuttjlbms.lqtitsosmajlojplmsldoklvhyslrou
tjahi.loboklsalyttwlolPtdtesoxdtlDojp,lputowk,lut aytrhd,lojplmjqmsmjic

Sawlo  toutplajls.tlymptbodnlbms.lolxhentslarlb.mstboy.lojplo
daji-.ojpdtplxuhy.cl.tlyhuqtktpls.tlrtjet,lojploddlidopjtyyldtrsl.mwlojp
olptt lwtdoje.adklytssdtplpabjlh ajl.myly mumsclS.musklkoupylarlxaoup
rtjetljmjtlrttsl.mi.clDmrtlsal.mwlyttwtpl.addab,lojpltzmystjetlxhslo
xhuptjclYmi.mji,l.tlpm  tpl.mylxuhy.lojpl oyytplmslodajils.tlsa ways
 dojn;lut tostpls.tla tuosmaj;lpmplmsloiomj;leaw outpls.tlmjymijmrmeojs
b.mstboy.tplysutonlbms.ls.tlrou-utoe.mjileajsmjtjslarlhjb.mstboy.tp
rtjet,lojplyoslpabjlajlolsutt-xazlpmyeahuoitpclVmwleowtlynm  mjilahslos
s.tliostlbms.lolsmjl omd,lojplymjimjilXhrrodalIodyclXumjimjilbostulruaw
s.tlsabjl hw l.oplodbokylxttjl.ostrhdlbaunlmjlSaw'yltkty,lxtraut,lxhs
jablmslpmpljaslysumntl.mwlyacl.tlutwtwxtutpls.osls.tutlboyleaw ojklos
s.tl hw clB.mst,lwhdossa,lojpljtiualxakylojplimudylbtutlodbokyls.tut
bomsmjils.tmulshujy,lutysmji,lsuopmjil doks.mjiy,lghouutddmji,lrmi.smji,
ynkdounmjiclOjpl.tlutwtwxtutpls.oslods.ahi.ls.tl hw lboylajdklol.hjputp
ojplrmrsklkoupylarr,lVmwljtqtuliaslxoenlbms.lolxhentslarlbostulhjptuloj
.ahu--ojpltqtjls.tjlyawtxapklitjtuoddkl.oplsalialorstul.mwclSawlyomp:

“Yok,lVmw,lM'ddlrtse.ls.tlbostulmrlkah'ddlb.mstboy.lyawtc”

Vmwly.aanl.myl.toplojplyomp:

“Eoj's,lWouylSawclAdtlwmyymy,ly.tlsadtlwtlMliaslsalialoj'limslpmylbostu
oj'ljaslysa lraadmj'luahj'lbmplojkxapkclY.tlyokly.tly te'lWouylSawlibmjt
salozlwtlsalb.mstboy.,loj'lyaly.tlsadtlwtlial'dajiloj'l'stjplsalwklabj
xhymjtyy--y.tl'dabtpl_y.t'p_l'stjplsalptlb.mstboy.mj'c”

“A.,ljtqtulkahlwmjplb.osly.tlyomp,lVmwclS.os'yls.tlbokly.tlodbokylsodnyc
Imwwtls.tlxhents--Mlbaj'slxtliajtlajdklololwmjhstcl_Y.t_lbaj'sltqtu
njabc”

“A.,lMlpoyj's,lWouylSawclAdtlwmyymyly.t'plsontloj'lsoulptl.toplarr'jlwtc
'Pttply.tlbahdpc”

“_Y.t_!lY.tljtqtuldmenylojkxapk--b.oenyl'twlaqtuls.tl.toplbms.l.tu
s.mwxdt--ojplb.aleoutylrauls.os,lM'pldmntlsalnjabclY.tlsodnylobrhd,lxhs
sodnlpaj'sl.hus--ojkbokylmslpaj'slmrly.tlpaj'sleukclVmw,lM'ddlimqtlkahlo
wouqtdclM'ddlimqtlkahlolb.mstloddtk!”

Vmwlxtiojlsalboqtuc

“B.mstloddtk,lVmw!lOjplms'ylolxhddklsobc”

“Wk!lPos'ylolwmi.sklioklwouqtd,lMlstddlkah!lXhslWouylSawlM'yl abturhd
'ruompladtlwmyymy--”

“Ojplxtympty,lmrlkahlbmddlM'ddly.ablkahlwklyautlsatc”

Vmwlboylajdkl.hwoj--s.mylossuoesmajlboylsaalwhe.lraul.mwcl.tl hslpabj
.myl omd,lsaanls.tlb.mstloddtk,lojplxtjslaqtuls.tlsatlbms.loxyauxmji
mjstutyslb.mdtls.tlxojpoitlboylxtmjilhjbahjpclMjlojas.tulwawtjsl.t
boylrdkmjilpabjls.tlysuttslbms.l.myl omdlojplolsmjidmjilutou,lSawlboy
b.mstboy.mjilbms.lqmiau,lojplOhjsl addklboylutsmumjilruawls.tlrmtdplbms.
olydm  tulmjl.tul.ojplojplsumhw .lmjl.tultktc

XhslSaw'yltjtuiklpmpljasldoyscl.tlxtiojlsals.mjnlarls.tlrhjl.tl.op
 dojjtplrauls.mylpok,lojpl.mylyauuabylwhdsm dmtpclYaajls.tlruttlxaky
bahdpleawtlsum  mjilodajilajloddlyausylarlptdmemahyltz tpmsmajy,lojp
s.tklbahdplwontlolbaudplarlrhjlarl.mwlraul.oqmjilsalbaun--s.tlqtuk
s.ahi.slarlmslxhujsl.mwldmntlrmutcl.tliaslahsl.mylbaudpdklbtods.lojp
tzowmjtplms--xmsylarlsaky,lwouxdty,lojplsuoy.;ltjahi.lsalxhklojltze.ojit
arl_baun_,lwokxt,lxhsljasl.odrltjahi.lsalxhklyalwhe.loyl.odrlojl.ahu
arl hutlruttpawclYal.tlutshujtpl.mylysuomstjtplwtojylsal.myl aents,lojp
ioqtlh ls.tlmptolarlsukmjilsalxhkls.tlxakyclOsls.mylpounlojpl.a tdtyy
wawtjslojlmjy muosmajlxhuyslh ajl.mw!lJas.mjildtyyls.ojloliutos,
woijmrmetjslmjy muosmajc

.tlsaanlh l.mylxuhy.lojplbtjslsuojghmddklsalbaunclXtjlUaituyl.aqtlmj
ymi.sl utytjsdk--s.tlqtuklxak,larloddlxaky,lb.aytlumpmehdtl.tl.oplxttj
putopmjiclXtj'yliomslboyls.tl.a -ynm -ojp-vhw -- uaarltjahi.ls.osl.my
.touslboyldmi.slojpl.mylojsmem osmajyl.mi.cl.tlboyltosmjilojlo  dt,lojp
imqmjiloldaji,lwtdapmahylb.aa ,loslmjstuqody,lraddabtplxklolptt -sajtp
pmji-paji-paji,lpmji-paji-paji,lraul.tlboyl tuyajosmjilolystowxaosclOy
.tlputbljtou,l.tlydoentjtply ttp,lsaanls.tlwmppdtlarls.tlysutts,ldtojtp
roulaqtulsalysouxaouplojpluahjptplsal ajptuahydklojplbms.ldoxaumahyl aw 
ojplemuehwysojet--raul.tlboyl tuyajosmjils.tlXmilWmyyahum,lojpleajymptutp
.mwytdrlsalxtlpuobmjiljmjtlrttslarlbostucl.tlboylxaoslojpleo somjlojp
tjimjt-xtddyleawxmjtp,lyal.tl.oplsalmwoimjtl.mwytdrlysojpmjilajl.mylabj
.huumeojt-ptenlimqmjils.tlauptuylojpltztehsmjils.tw:

“Ysa l.tu,lymu!lSmji-o-dmji-dmji!”lS.tl.topbokluojlodwayslahs,lojpl.t
putblh lydabdklsaboupls.tlymptbodnc

“Y.m lh lsalxoen!lSmji-o-dmji-dmji!”l.mylouwylysuomi.stjtplojplysmrrtjtp
pabjl.mylymptyc

“Ytsl.tulxoenlajls.tlysoxxaoup!lSmji-o-dmji-dmji!lE.ab!le.-e.ab-bab!
E.ab!”l.mylumi.sl.ojp,lwtoj-smwt,lptyeumxmjilysostdklemuedty--raulmslboy
ut utytjsmjilolrausk-raaslb.ttdc

“Dtsl.tulialxoenlajls.tldoxxaoup!lSmji-o-dmji-dmji!lE.ab-e.-e.ab-e.ab!”
lS.tldtrsl.ojplxtiojlsalptyeumxtlemuedtyc

“Ysa ls.tlysoxxaoup!lSmji-o-dmji-dmji!lYsa ls.tldoxxaoup!lEawtlo.toplaj
s.tlysoxxaoup!lYsa l.tu!lDtslkahulahsymptlshujlaqtulydab!lSmji-o-dmji-dmji!
E.ab-ab-ab!lItslahsls.osl.top-dmjt!l_dmqtdk_ljab!lEawt--ahslbms.
kahuly umji-dmjt--b.os'utlkahloxahsls.tut!lSontlolshujluahjpls.oslyshw 
bms.ls.tlxmi.slarlms!lYsojplxkls.oslysoit,ljab--dtsl.tulia!lPajtlbms.
s.tltjimjty,lymu!lSmji-o-dmji-dmji!lY.'S!lY'.'S!lY.'S!”l(sukmjils.t
iohit-eaeny)c

Sawlbtjslajlb.mstboy.mji-- ompljalosstjsmajlsals.tlystowxaosclXtjlysoutp
olwawtjslojpls.tjlyomp:l“_.m-Km!lKah'ut_lh lolyshw ,lomj'slkah!”

JalojybtuclSawlyhuqtktpl.myldoyslsahe.lbms.ls.tltktlarlojlousmys,ls.tj
.tlioqtl.mylxuhy.lojas.tulitjsdtlybtt lojplyhuqtktpls.tlutyhds,loy
xtrautclXtjluojitplh lodajiymptlarl.mwclSaw'ylwahs.lbostutplrauls.t
o  dt,lxhsl.tlyshenlsal.mylbaunclXtjlyomp:

“.tdda,ladple.o ,lkahliaslsalbaun,l.tk?”

Sawlb.ttdtplyhpptjdklojplyomp:

“B.k,lms'ylkah,lXtj!lMlbouj'sljasmemjic”

“Yok--M'wliamjilmjlo-ybmwwmji,lMlowclPaj'slkahlbmy.lkahleahdp?lXhslar
eahuytlkah'plpuhs.tul_baun_--bahdpj'slkah?lEahuytlkahlbahdp!”

Sawleajstw dostpls.tlxaklolxms,lojplyomp:

“B.oslpalkahleoddlbaun?”

“B.k,lomj'sl_s.os_lbaun?”

Sawlutyhwtpl.mylb.mstboy.mji,lojplojybtutpleoutdtyydk:

“Btdd,lwokxtlmslmy,lojplwokxtlmslomj'sclOddlMlnjab,lmy,lmslyhmsylSaw
Yobktuc”

“A.leawt,ljab,lkahlpaj'slwtojlsaldtslajls.oslkahl_dmnt_lms?”

S.tlxuhy.leajsmjhtplsalwaqtc

“Dmntlms?lBtdd,lMlpaj'slyttlb.klMlahi.sj'slsaldmntlmsclPatylolxaklitslo
e.ojetlsalb.mstboy.lolrtjetltqtuklpok?”

S.osl hsls.tls.mjilmjloljtbldmi.sclXtjlysa  tpljmxxdmjil.mylo  dtc
Sawlybt sl.mylxuhy.lpomjsmdklxoenlojplraus.--yst  tplxoenlsaljastls.t
trrtes--opptplolsahe.l.tutlojpls.tut--eumsmemytpls.tltrrtesloiomj--Xtj
bose.mjiltqtuklwaqtlojplitssmjilwautlojplwautlmjstutystp,lwautlojplwaut
oxyauxtpcl utytjsdkl.tlyomp:

“Yok,lSaw,ldtsl_wt_lb.mstboy.loldmssdtc”

Sawleajymptutp,lboyloxahslsaleajytjs;lxhsl.tlodstutpl.mylwmjp:

“Ja--ja--Mlutenajlmslbahdpj'sl.oupdklpa,lXtjclKahlytt,lOhjsl addk'ylobrhd
 ousmehdouloxahsls.mylrtjet--umi.sl.tutlajls.tlysutts,lkahlnjab--xhslmrlms
boyls.tlxoenlrtjetlMlbahdpj'slwmjplojpl_y.t_lbahdpj'sclKty,ly.t'ylobrhd
 ousmehdouloxahsls.mylrtjet;lms'yliaslsalxtlpajtlqtukleoutrhd;lMlutenaj
s.tutlomj'slajtlxaklmjlols.ahyojp,lwokxtlsbals.ahyojp,ls.osleojlpalms
s.tlboklms'yliaslsalxtlpajtc”

“Ja--myls.oslya?lA.leawt,ljab--dtwwtlvhyslsukclAjdklvhysloldmssdt--M'pldts
_kah_,lmrlkahlboylwt,lSawc”

“Xtj,lM'pldmntlsa,l.ajtyslmjvhj;lxhslOhjsl addk--btdd,lVmwlbojstplsalpa
ms,lxhsly.tlbahdpj'sldtsl.mw;lYmplbojstplsalpalms,lojply.tlbahdpj'sldts
YmpclJablpaj'slkahlyttl.ablM'wlrmztp?lMrlkahlboylsalsoendtls.mylrtjet
ojplojks.mjilboylsal.o  tjlsalms--”

“A.,ly.heny,lM'ddlxtlvhysloyleoutrhdclJabldtwwtlsukclYok--M'ddlimqtlkah
s.tleautlarlwklo  dtc”

“Btdd,l.tut--Ja,lXtj,ljablpaj'sclM'wlortoup--”

“M'ddlimqtlkahl_odd_larlms!”

Sawlioqtlh ls.tlxuhy.lbms.lutdhesojetlmjl.mylroet,lxhslodoeumsklmjl.my
.tousclOjplb.mdtls.tldostlystowtulXmilWmyyahumlbauntplojplybtostplmjls.t
yhj,ls.tlutsmutplousmyslyoslajlolxouutdlmjls.tly.optledaytlxk,
pojidtpl.myldtiy,lwhje.tpl.mylo  dt,lojpl dojjtpls.tlydohi.stularlwaut
mjjaetjsyclS.tutlboyljaldoenlarlwostumod;lxakyl.o  tjtplodajiltqtuk
dmssdtlb.mdt;ls.tkleowtlsalvttu,lxhslutwomjtplsalb.mstboy.clXkls.tlsmwt
Xtjlboylroiitplahs,lSawl.oplsuoptpls.tljtzsle.ojetlsalXmddklRmy.tulrau
olnmst,lmjliaaplut omu;lojplb.tjl.tl doktplahs,lVa.jjklWmddtulxahi.slmj
raulolptopluoslojplolysumjilsalybmjilmslbms.--ojplyalaj,lojplyalaj,l.ahu
orstul.ahuclOjplb.tjls.tlwmppdtlarls.tlorstujaajleowt,lruawlxtmjilo
 aaul aqtusk-ysumentjlxaklmjls.tlwaujmji,lSawlboyldmstuoddkluaddmjilmj
btods.cl.tl.oplxtymptyls.tls.mjiylxtrautlwtjsmajtp,lsbtdqtlwouxdty,l ous
arlolvtby-.ou ,lol mtetlarlxdhtlxassdt-idoyylsaldaanls.uahi.,loly aad
eojjaj,lolntkls.oslbahdpj'slhjdaenlojks.mji,lolruoiwtjslarle.odn,lo
idoyylysa  tularlolpteojstu,lolsmjlyadpmtu,loleah dtlarlsop adty,
ymzlrmut-euoentuy,lolnmsstjlbms.lajdklajtltkt,lolxuoyylpaau-njax,lo
pai-eaddou--xhsljalpai--s.tl.ojpdtlarlolnjmrt,lrahul mtetylarlauojit- ttd,
ojplolpmdo mpostpladplbmjpablyoy.c

.tl.opl.oploljmet,liaap,lmpdtlsmwtloddls.tlb.mdt-- dtjsklarleaw ojk--ojp
s.tlrtjetl.opls.uttleaosylarlb.mstboy.lajlms!lMrl.tl.opj'sluhjlahslar
b.mstboy.l.tlbahdpl.oqtlxojnuh stpltqtuklxaklmjls.tlqmddoitc

Sawlyomplsal.mwytdrls.oslmslboyljaslyhe.lol.addablbaudp,lorstuloddcl.t
.oplpmyeaqtutploliutosldoblarl.hwojloesmaj,lbms.ahslnjabmjilms--jowtdk,
s.oslmjlauptulsalwontlolwojlaulolxakleaqtslols.mji,lmslmylajdkljtetyyouk
salwontls.tls.mjilpmrrmehdslsalossomjclMrl.tl.oplxttjloliutoslojp
bmytl .mdaya .tu,ldmntls.tlbumstularls.mylxaan,l.tlbahdpljabl.oqt
eaw ut.tjptpls.oslBaunleajymysylarlb.ostqtulolxapklmyl_axdmitp_lsalpa,
ojpls.osl dokleajymysylarlb.ostqtulolxapklmyljaslaxdmitplsalpaclOjp
s.mylbahdpl.td l.mwlsalhjptuysojplb.kleajysuhesmjilousmrmemodlrdabtuylau
 turauwmjilajlolsutop-wmddlmylbaun,lb.mdtluaddmjilstj- mjylauledmwxmji
WajslXdojelmylajdklowhytwtjsclS.tutloutlbtods.klitjsdtwtjlmjlTjidojp
b.alpumqtlrahu-.auytl oyytjitu-eaoe.tylsbtjsklauls.musklwmdtylajlo
pomdkldmjt,lmjls.tlyhwwtu,lxteohytls.tl umqmdtitleaysyls.twleajymptuoxdt
wajtk;lxhslmrls.tklbtutlarrtutplboitylrauls.tlytuqmet,ls.oslbahdplshuj
mslmjsalbaunlojpls.tjls.tklbahdplutymijc

S.tlxaklwhytplob.mdtlaqtuls.tlyhxysojsmodle.ojitlb.me.l.oplsontjl doet
mjl.mylbaudpdklemuehwysojety,lojpls.tjlbtjptplsaboupl.topghoustuylsa
ut ausc




E.O STUlMMM

SAWl utytjstpl.mwytdrlxtrautlOhjsl addk,lb.alboylymssmjilxkloj
a tjlbmjpablmjlol dtoyojslutoubouplo ouswtjs,lb.me.lboylxtpuaaw,
xutonroys-uaaw,lpmjmji-uaaw,lojpldmxuouk,leawxmjtpclS.tlxodwklyhwwtu
omu,ls.tlutysrhdlghmts,ls.tlapaularls.tlrdabtuy,lojpls.tlpuabymji
whuwhularls.tlxttyl.opl.opls.tmultrrtes,lojply.tlboyljappmjilaqtul.tu
njmssmji--rauly.tl.opljaleaw ojklxhsls.tleos,lojplmslboyloydtt lmjl.tu
do cl.tuly tesoedtylbtutl ua  tplh lajl.tuliuokl.toplraulyortskclY.tl.op
s.ahi.sls.oslarleahuytlSawl.oplptytustpldajiloia,lojply.tlbajptutplos
yttmjil.mwl doetl.mwytdrlmjl.tul abtuloiomjlmjls.mylmjsut mplbokcl.t
yomp:l“Wokj'slMlialojpl dokljab,lohjs?”

“B.os,lo'utopk?l.ablwhe.l.oqtlkahlpajt?”

“Ms'yloddlpajt,lohjsc”

“Saw,lpaj'sldmtlsalwt--Mleoj'slxtoulmsc”

“Mlomj's,lohjs;lmsl_my_loddlpajtc”

Ohjsl addkl doetplywoddlsuhyslmjlyhe.ltqmptjetclY.tlbtjslahslsalyttlrau
.tuytdr;lojply.tlbahdpl.oqtlxttjleajstjslsalrmjplsbtjskl tuletjsclar
Saw'ylysostwtjslsuhtclB.tjly.tlrahjpls.tltjsmutlrtjetlb.mst-boy.tp,lojp
jaslajdklb.mstboy.tplxhsltdoxauostdkleaostplojpluteaostp,lojpltqtjlo
ysutonlopptplsals.tliuahjp,l.tuloysajmy.wtjslboylodwayslhjy tonoxdtclY.t
yomp:

“Btdd,lMljtqtu!lS.tut'yljalitssmjiluahjplms,lkahleojlbaunlb.tjlkah'utlo
wmjplsa,lSawc”lOjpls.tjly.tlpmdhstpls.tleaw dmwtjslxkloppmji,l“Xhslms'y
 abturhdlytdpawlkah'utlolwmjplsa,lM'wlxahjplsalyokclBtdd,lial'dajilojp
 dok;lxhslwmjplkahlitslxoenlyawtlsmwtlmjlolbttn,laulM'ddlsojlkahc”

Y.tlboylyalaqtueawtlxkls.tly dtjpaularl.myloe.mtqtwtjsls.osly.tlsaan
.mwlmjsals.tledaytslojplytdtestplole.ametlo  dtlojplptdmqtutplmslsal.mw,
odajilbms.lojlmw uaqmjildteshutlh ajls.tlopptplqodhtlojplrdoqaulolsutos
saanlsalmsytdrlb.tjlmsleowtlbms.ahslymjls.uahi.lqmushahyltrrausc
Ojplb.mdtly.tledaytplbms.lol.o  klYeum shuodlrdahumy.,l.tl“.aantp”lo
pahi.jhsc

S.tjl.tlynm  tplahs,lojplyoblYmplvhyslysousmjilh ls.tlahsymptlysomubok
s.osldtplsals.tlxoenluaawylajls.tlyteajplrdaauclEdapylbtutl.ojpklojp
s.tlomulboylrhddlarls.twlmjlolsbmjndmjiclS.tkluoitplouahjplYmpldmntlo
.omd-ysauw;lojplxtrautlOhjsl addkleahdpleaddtesl.tulyhu umytplroehdsmty
ojplyoddklsals.tlutyeht,lymzlaulytqtjledapyl.oplsontjl tuyajodltrrtes,
ojplSawlboylaqtuls.tlrtjetlojpliajtclS.tutlboyloliost,lxhsloylolitjtuod
s.mjil.tlboylsaaleuabptplraulsmwtlsalwontlhytlarlmscl.mylyahdlboylos
 toet,ljabls.osl.tl.oplytssdtplbms.lYmplrauleoddmjilosstjsmajlsal.my
xdoenls.utoplojplitssmjil.mwlmjsalsuahxdtc

Sawlynmustpls.tlxdaen,lojpleowtluahjplmjsalolwhppkloddtkls.osldtplxkls.t
xoenlarl.mylohjs'yleab-ysoxdtcl.tl utytjsdkliaslyortdklxtkajpls.tlutoe.
arleo shutlojpl hjmy.wtjs,lojpl.oystjtplsaboupls.tl hxdmelyghoutlarls.t
qmddoit,lb.tutlsbal“wmdmsouk”leaw ojmtylarlxakyl.oplwtslrauleajrdmes,
oeeaupmjilsal utqmahylo  amjswtjsclSawlboylItjtuodlarlajtlarls.tyt
ouwmty,lVatl.ou tul(olxayawlrumtjp)lItjtuodlarls.tlas.tuclS.tytlsba
iutosleawwojptuylpmpljasleajptyetjplsalrmi.slmjl tuyaj--s.oslxtmjilxtsstu
yhmstplsals.tlysmddlywoddtulruk--xhslyoslsaits.tulajlojltwmjtjet
ojpleajphestpls.tlrmtdpla tuosmajylxklauptuylptdmqtutpls.uahi.
ompty-pt-eow clSaw'ylouwklbajloliutoslqmesauk,lorstuloldajilojp
.oup-rahi.slxossdtclS.tjls.tlptoplbtutleahjstp,l umyajtuyltze.ojitp,
s.tlstuwylarls.tljtzslpmyoiuttwtjsloiuttplh aj,lojpls.tlpoklrauls.t
jtetyyouklxossdtlo  amjstp;lorstulb.me.ls.tlouwmtylrtddlmjsaldmjtlojp
woue.tplobok,lojplSawlshujtpl.awtbouplodajtc

Oyl.tlboyl oyymjilxkls.tl.ahytlb.tutlVtrrlS.ose.tuldmqtp,l.tlyobloljtb
imudlmjls.tliouptj--oldaqtdkldmssdtlxdht-tktpleutoshutlbms.lktddab
.omul domstplmjsalsbaldaji-somdy,lb.mstlyhwwtulruaenlojpltwxuamptutp
 oj-sodtsstyclS.tlruty.-euabjtpl.tualrtddlbms.ahslrmumjiloly.asclO
etusomjlOwklDobutjetlqojmy.tplahslarl.myl.touslojpldtrsljasltqtjlo
wtwauklarl.tuytdrlxt.mjpcl.tl.opls.ahi.sl.tldaqtpl.tulsalpmysuoesmaj;
.tl.oplutiouptpl.myl oyymajloylopauosmaj;lojplxt.adplmslboylajdklol aau
dmssdtltqojtyetjsl ousmodmskcl.tl.oplxttjlwajs.ylbmjjmjil.tu;ly.tl.op
eajrtyytpl.oupdklolbttnloia;l.tl.oplxttjls.tl.o  mtyslojpls.tl uahptys
xaklmjls.tlbaudplajdklytqtjly.auslpoky,lojpl.tutlmjlajtlmjysojslarlsmwt
y.tl.opliajtlahslarl.myl.tousldmntloleoyhodlysuojitulb.aytlqmymslmy
pajtc

.tlbauy.m  tpls.myljtblojitdlbms.lrhusmqtltkt,lsmddl.tlyobls.osly.tl.op
pmyeaqtutpl.mw;ls.tjl.tl utstjptpl.tlpmpljaslnjably.tlboyl utytjs,lojp
xtiojlsal“y.ablarr”lmjloddlyausylarloxyhuplxakmy.lboky,lmjlauptulsalbmj
.tulopwmuosmajcl.tlnt slh ls.myliuastyghtlraadmy.jtyylraulyawtlsmwt;
xhslxk-ojp-xk,lb.mdtl.tlboylmjls.tlwmpyslarlyawtlpojituahylikwjoysme
 turauwojety,l.tlidojetploymptlojplyobls.osls.tldmssdtlimudlboylbtjpmji
.tulboklsaboupls.tl.ahytclSawleowtlh lsals.tlrtjetlojpldtojtplajlms,
iumtqmji,lojpl.a mjily.tlbahdplsouuklktslob.mdtldajituclY.tl.odstplo
wawtjslajls.tlyst ylojpls.tjlwaqtplsaboupls.tlpaauclSawl.toqtploliutos
ymi.loyly.tl hsl.tulraaslajls.tls.uty.adpclXhsl.mylroetldmslh ,
umi.slobok,lrauly.tlsayytplol ojyklaqtuls.tlrtjetlolwawtjslxtrautly.t
pmyo  toutpc

S.tlxakluojlouahjplojplysa  tplbms.mjlolraaslaulsbalarls.tlrdabtu,lojp
s.tjly.optpl.myltktylbms.l.myl.ojplojplxtiojlsaldaanlpabjlysuttsloy
mrl.tl.oplpmyeaqtutplyawts.mjilarlmjstutysliamjilajlmjls.oslpmutesmajc
 utytjsdkl.tl mentplh lolysuoblojplxtiojlsukmjilsalxodojetlmslajl.my
jayt,lbms.l.myl.toplsmdstplroulxoen;lojployl.tlwaqtplruawlymptlsalympt,
mjl.myltrrausy,l.tltpitpljtoutulojpljtoutulsaboupls.tl ojyk;lrmjoddkl.my
xoutlraaslutystplh ajlms,l.myl dmojslsatyledaytplh ajlms,lojpl.tl.a  tp
oboklbms.ls.tlsutoyhutlojplpmyo  toutpluahjpls.tleaujtuclXhslajdklraulo
wmjhst--ajdklb.mdtl.tleahdplxhssajls.tlrdabtulmjymptl.mylvoents,ljtzs
.myl.tous--auljtzsl.mylysawoe.,l ayymxdk,lraul.tlboyljaslwhe.l aystplmj
ojosawk,lojpljasl.k tueumsmeod,lojkbokc

.tlutshujtp,ljab,lojpl.hjiloxahsls.tlrtjetlsmddljmi.srodd,l“y.abmji
arr,”loylxtraut;lxhsls.tlimudljtqtultz.mxmstpl.tuytdrloiomj,ls.ahi.lSaw
eawraustpl.mwytdrloldmssdtlbms.ls.tl.a tls.osly.tl.oplxttjljtoulyawt
bmjpab,lwtojsmwt,lojplxttjloboutlarl.mylosstjsmajyclRmjoddkl.tlysuapt
.awtlutdhesojsdk,lbms.l.myl aaul.toplrhddlarlqmymajyc

Oddls.uahi.lyh  tul.myly mumsylbtutlyal.mi.ls.osl.mylohjslbajptutpl“b.os
.opliaslmjsals.tle.mdpc”l.tlsaanloliaaplyeadpmjiloxahsledappmjilYmp,lojp
pmpljaslyttwlsalwmjplmslmjls.tldtoyscl.tlsumtplsalystodlyhioulhjptul.my
ohjs'ylqtukljayt,lojpliasl.mylnjhendtyluo  tplraulmscl.tlyomp:

“Ohjs,lkahlpaj'slb.oenlYmplb.tjl.tlsontylmsc”

“Btdd,lYmplpaj'slsauwtjslolxapkls.tlboklkahlpaclKah'plxtlodbokylmjsa
s.oslyhioulmrlMlbouj'slbose.mjilkahc”

 utytjsdkly.tlyst  tplmjsals.tlnmse.tj,lojplYmp,l.o  klmjl.mylmwwhjmsk,
utoe.tplrauls.tlyhiou-xabd--olyauslarlidaukmjilaqtulSawlb.me.lboy
btddjmi.lhjxtouoxdtclXhslYmp'ylrmjituylydm  tplojpls.tlxabdlpua  tplojp
xuantclSawlboylmjlteysoymtyclMjlyhe.lteysoymtyls.osl.tltqtjleajsuaddtp
.mylsajihtlojplboylymdtjscl.tlyomplsal.mwytdrls.osl.tlbahdpljasly tonlo
baup,ltqtjlb.tjl.mylohjsleowtlmj,lxhslbahdplymsl turtesdklysmddlsmddly.t
oyntplb.alpmpls.tlwmye.mtr;lojpls.tjl.tlbahdplstdd,lojpls.tutlbahdplxt
jas.mjilyaliaaplmjls.tlbaudploylsalyttls.osl tslwaptdl“eose.lmsc”l.tlboy
yalxumwrhdlarltzhdsosmajls.osl.tleahdpl.oupdkl.adpl.mwytdrlb.tjls.tladp
dopkleowtlxoenlojplysaaploxaqtls.tlbutenlpmye.ouimjildmi.sjmjiylarlbuos.
ruawlaqtul.tuly tesoedtycl.tlyomplsal.mwytdr,l“Jablms'yleawmji!”lOjpls.t
jtzslmjysojsl.tlboyly uobdmjilajls.tlrdaau!lS.tl astjsl odwlboylh dmrstp
salysumntloiomjlb.tjlSawleumtplahs:

“.adplaj,ljab,lb.osl'tulkahlxtdsmjil_wt_lrau?--Ymplxuantlms!”

Ohjsl addkl ohytp,l tu dtztp,lojplSawldaantplraul.todmjil mskclXhslb.tj
y.tliasl.tulsajihtloiomj,ly.tlajdklyomp:

“Hwr!lBtdd,lkahlpmpj'slitsloldmenlowmyy,lMlutenajclKahlxttjlmjsalyawt
as.tulohpoemahylwmye.mtrlb.tjlMlboyj'slouahjp,ldmntltjahi.c”

S.tjl.tuleajyemtjetlut uaoe.tpl.tu,lojply.tlktoujtplsalyoklyawts.mji
nmjplojpldaqmji;lxhsly.tlvhpitpls.osls.mylbahdplxtleajysuhtplmjsalo
eajrtyymajls.osly.tl.oplxttjlmjls.tlbuaji,lojplpmyem dmjtlrauxoptls.osc
Yaly.tlnt slymdtjet,lojplbtjsloxahsl.tulorromuylbms.lolsuahxdtpl.tousc
Sawlyhdntplmjloleaujtulojpltzodstpl.mylbatycl.tlnjtbls.oslmjl.tul.tous
.mylohjslboylajl.tulnjttylsal.mw,lojpl.tlboylwauaytdkliuosmrmtplxkls.t
eajyemahyjtyylarlmscl.tlbahdpl.ojilahsljalymijody,l.tlbahdplsontljasmet
arljajtcl.tlnjtbls.oslolktoujmjilidojetlrtddlh ajl.mw,ljablojpls.tj,
s.uahi.lolrmdwlarlstouy,lxhsl.tlutrhytpluteaijmsmajlarlmscl.tl meshutp
.mwytdrldkmjilymenlhjsalptos.lojpl.mylohjslxtjpmjilaqtul.mwlxtytte.mji
ajtldmssdtlrauimqmjilbaup,lxhsl.tlbahdplshujl.mylroetlsals.tlbodd,lojp
pmtlbms.ls.oslbauplhjyompclO.,l.ablbahdply.tlrttdls.tj?lOjpl.tl meshutp
.mwytdrlxuahi.sl.awtlruawls.tlumqtu,lptop,lbms.l.mylehudyloddlbts,lojp
.mylyautl.tousloslutyscl.ably.tlbahdpls.uabl.tuytdrlh ajl.mw,lojpl.ab
.tulstouylbahdplroddldmntluomj,lojpl.tuldm yl uoklIaplsalimqtl.tulxoen
.tulxaklojply.tlbahdpljtqtu,ljtqtuloxhytl.mwlojklwaut!lXhsl.tlbahdp
dmtls.tutleadplojplb.mstlojplwontljalymij--ol aauldmssdtlyhrrtutu,lb.ayt
iumtrylbtutloslojltjpcl.tlyalbauntplh ajl.mylrttdmjiylbms.ls.tl os.aylar
s.tytlputowy,ls.osl.tl.oplsalntt lyboddabmji,l.tlboylyaldmntlsale.ant;
ojpl.myltktylybowlmjlolxdhularlbostu,lb.me.laqturdabtplb.tjl.tlbmjntp,
ojpluojlpabjlojplsumendtplruawls.tltjplarl.myljaytclOjplyhe.loldhzhuklsa
.mwlboyls.myl tssmjilarl.mylyauuaby,ls.osl.tleahdpljaslxtoulsal.oqtlojk
baudpdkle.ttumjtyylaulojkliuosmjilptdmi.slmjsuhptlh ajlms;lmslboylsaa
yoeutplraulyhe.leajsoes;lojplya,l utytjsdk,lb.tjl.myleahymjlWouklpojetp
mj,loddlodmqtlbms.ls.tlvaklarlyttmjil.awtloiomjlorstulojloit-dajilqmyms
arlajtlbttnlsals.tleahjsuk,l.tliaslh lojplwaqtplmjledahpylojplpounjtyy
ahsloslajtlpaauloyly.tlxuahi.slyajilojplyhjy.mjtlmjlosls.tlas.tuc

.tlbojptutplroulruawls.tloeehysawtpl.ohjsylarlxaky,lojplyahi.slptyadost
 doetyls.oslbtutlmjl.ouwajklbms.l.myly mumsclOldailuorslmjls.tlumqtu
mjqmstpl.mw,lojpl.tlytostpl.mwytdrlajlmsylahstultpitlojpleajstw dostp
s.tlputouklqoysjtyylarls.tlysutow,lbmy.mji,ls.tlb.mdt,ls.osl.tleahdp
ajdklxtlpuabjtp,loddloslajetlojplhjeajyemahydk,lbms.ahslhjptuiamjils.t
hjeawrausoxdtluahsmjtlptqmytplxkljoshutclS.tjl.tls.ahi.slarl.mylrdabtuc
.tliaslmslahs,luhw dtplojplbmdstp,lojplmslwmi.smdklmjeutoytpl.mylpmywod
rtdmemskcl.tlbajptutplmrly.tlbahdpl mskl.mwlmrly.tlnjtb?lBahdply.t
euk,lojplbmy.ls.osly.tl.oplolumi.slsal hsl.tulouwylouahjpl.myljtenlojp
eawrausl.mw?lAulbahdply.tlshujleadpdklobokldmntloddls.tl.addablbaudp?
S.myl meshutlxuahi.slyhe.lojloiajklarl dtoyhuoxdtlyhrrtumjils.osl.t
bauntplmslaqtulojplaqtuloiomjlmjl.mylwmjplojplytslmslh lmjljtblojp
qoumtpldmi.sy,lsmddl.tlbautlmsls.utopxoutclOsldoysl.tluaytlh lymi.mji
ojplpt oustplmjls.tlpounjtyyc

Oxahsl.odr- oysljmjtlaulstjla'edaenl.tleowtlodajils.tlptytustplysuttslsa
b.tutls.tlOpautplHjnjabjldmqtp;l.tl ohytplolwawtjs;ljalyahjplrtddlh aj
.myldmystjmjiltou;loleojpdtlboyleoysmjilolphddlidablh ajls.tlehusomj
arlolyteajp-ysauklbmjpabclBoyls.tlyoeutpl utytjetls.tut?l.tledmwxtpls.t
rtjet,ls.utoptpl.mylystods.klbokls.uahi.ls.tl dojsy,lsmddl.tlysaaplhjptu
s.oslbmjpab;l.tldaantplh loslmsldaji,lojplbms.ltwasmaj;ls.tjl.tldompl.mw
pabjlajls.tliuahjplhjptulms,lpmy aymjil.mwytdrlh ajl.mylxoen,lbms.l.my
.ojpyledoy tplh ajl.mylxutoyslojpl.adpmjil.myl aaulbmdstplrdabtuc
Ojpls.hyl.tlbahdplpmt--ahslmjls.tleadplbaudp,lbms.ljaly.tdstulaqtul.my
.awtdtyyl.top,ljalrumtjpdkl.ojplsalbm tls.tlptos.-pow ylruawl.mylxuab,
jaldaqmjilroetlsalxtjpl mskmjidklaqtul.mwlb.tjls.tliutosloiajkleowtclOjp
s.hyl_y.t_lbahdplyttl.mwlb.tjly.tldaantplahslh ajls.tlidoplwaujmji,lojp
a.!lbahdply.tlpua lajtldmssdtlstoulh ajl.myl aau,ldmrtdtyylrauw,lbahdp
y.tl.toqtlajtldmssdtlymi.lsalyttlolxumi.slkahjildmrtlyaluhptdklxdmi.stp,
yalhjsmwtdklehslpabj?

S.tlbmjpablbtjslh ,lolwomp-ytuqojs'ylpmyeaupojslqametl uarojtpls.tl.adk
eodw,lojplolptdhitlarlbostulputje.tpls.tl uajtlwousku'ylutwomjy!

S.tlysuojidmjil.tualy uojilh lbms.lolutdmtqmjilyjausclS.tutlboylolb.mf
oylarlolwmyymdtlmjls.tlomu,lwmjidtplbms.ls.tlwhuwhularlolehuyt,lolyahjp
oylarly.mqtumjilidoyylraddabtp,lojplolywodd,lqoihtlrauwlbtjslaqtuls.t
rtjetlojply.asloboklmjls.tlidaawc

Jasldajilorstu,loylSaw,loddlhjputyytplraulxtp,lboylyhuqtkmjil.my
putje.tpliouwtjsylxkls.tldmi.slarlolsoddablpm ,lYmplbantlh ;lxhslmrl.t
.oplojklpmwlmptolarlwonmjilojkl“utrtutjetylsaloddhymajy,”l.tls.ahi.s
xtsstularlmslojpl.tdpl.myl toet,lrauls.tutlboylpojitulmjlSaw'yltktc

Sawlshujtplmjlbms.ahsls.tlopptplqtzosmajlarl uoktuy,lojplYmplwoptlwtjsod
jastlarls.tlawmyymajc




E.O STUlMQ

S.Tlyhjluaytlh ajlolsuojghmdlbaudp,lojplxtowtplpabjlh ajls.tl toetrhd
qmddoitldmntlolxtjtpmesmajclXutonroyslaqtu,lOhjsl addkl.oplrowmdk
bauy.m :lmslxtiojlbms.lol uoktulxhmdslruawls.tliuahjplh larlyadmp
eahuytylarlYeum shuodlghasosmajy,lbtdptplsaits.tulbms.lols.mjlwausoular
aumimjodmsk;lojplruawls.tlyhwwmslarls.myly.tlptdmqtutploliumwle.o stular
s.tlWayomelDob,loylruawlYmjomc

S.tjlSawlimuptplh l.myldamjy,lyalsaly ton,lojplbtjslsalbaunlsal“its
.mylqtuytyc”lYmpl.opldtoujtpl.myldtyyajlpokylxtrautclSawlxtjsloddl.my
tjtuimtylsals.tlwtwaumfmjilarlrmqtlqtuyty,lojpl.tle.aytl ouslarls.t
Ytuwajlajls.tlWahjs,lxteohytl.tleahdplrmjpljalqtuytyls.oslbtutly.austuc
Osls.tltjplarl.odrlojl.ahulSawl.oplolqoihtlitjtuodlmptolarl.myldtyyaj,
xhsljalwaut,lraul.mylwmjplboylsuoqtuymjils.tlb.adtlrmtdplarl.hwoj
s.ahi.s,lojpl.myl.ojpylbtutlxhyklbms.lpmysuoesmjiluteutosmajyclWouklsaan
.mylxaanlsal.toul.mwlutemst,lojpl.tlsumtplsalrmjpl.mylbokls.uahi.ls.t
rai:

“Xdtyytploutls.t--o--o--”

“ aau”--

“Kty-- aau;lxdtyytploutls.tl aau--o--o--”

“Mjly mums--”

“Mjly mums;lxdtyytploutls.tl aaulmjly mums,lrauls.tk--s.tk--”

“_S.tmuy_--”

“Raul_s.tmuy_clXdtyytploutls.tl aaulmjly mums,lrauls.tmuylmyls.tlnmjipaw
arl.toqtjclXdtyytploutls.tkls.oslwahuj,lrauls.tk--s.tk--”

“Y.--”

“Rauls.tk--o--”

“Y,l.,lO--”

“Rauls.tklY,l.--A.,lMlpaj'slnjablb.oslmslmy!”

“_Y.odd_!”

“A.,l_y.odd_!lrauls.tkly.odd--rauls.tkly.odd--o--o--y.oddlwahuj--o--o--xdtyytp
outls.tkls.osly.odd--s.tkls.os--o--s.tkls.osly.oddlwahuj,lrauls.tk
y.odd--o--y.oddl_b.os_?lB.klpaj'slkahlstddlwt,lWouk?--b.oslpalkahlbojslsa
xtlyalwtojlrau?”

“A.,lSaw,lkahl aauls.men-.toptpls.mji,lM'wljaslstoymjilkahclMlbahdpj's
pals.osclKahlwhyslialojpldtoujlmsloiomjclPaj'slkahlxtlpmyeahuoitp,lSaw,
kah'ddlwojoitlms--ojplmrlkahlpa,lM'ddlimqtlkahlyawts.mjiltqtulyaljmetc
S.tut,ljab,ls.os'yloliaaplxakc”

“Oddlumi.s!lB.oslmylms,lWouk,lstddlwtlb.oslmslmyc”

“Jtqtulkahlwmjp,lSawclKahlnjablmrlMlyoklms'yljmet,lmslmyljmetc”

“Kahlxtslkahls.os'ylya,lWoukclOddlumi.s,lM'ddlsoendtlmsloiomjc”

Ojpl.tlpmpl“soendtlmsloiomj”--ojplhjptuls.tlpahxdtl utyyhutlarlehumaymsk
ojpl uay tesmqtliomjl.tlpmplmslbms.lyhe.ly mumsls.osl.tloeeaw dmy.tplo
y.mjmjilyheetyyclWouklioqtl.mwlolxuojp-jtbl“Xoudab”lnjmrtlbaus.lsbtdqt
ojplol.odrletjsy;lojpls.tleajqhdymajlarlptdmi.sls.oslybt sl.mylykystw
y.aanl.mwlsal.mylrahjposmajyclSuht,ls.tlnjmrtlbahdpljaslehslojks.mji,
xhslmslboylol“yhut-tjahi.”lXoudab,lojpls.tutlboylmjeajetmqoxdtliuojpthu
mjls.os--s.ahi.lb.tutls.tlBtystujlxakyltqtuliasls.tlmptols.oslyhe.lo
bto ajleahdpl ayymxdklxtleahjsturtmstplsalmsylmjvhuklmylojlmw aymji
wkystuklojplbmddlodbokylutwomjlya,l tu.o yclSawleajsumqtplsalyeoumrkls.t
eh xaouplbms.lms,lojplboylouuojimjilsalxtimjlajls.tlxhutoh,lb.tjl.tlboy
eoddtplarrlsalputyylraulYhjpok-ye.aadc

Wouklioqtl.mwlolsmjlxoymjlarlbostulojplol mtetlarlyao ,lojpl.tlbtjs
ahsymptls.tlpaaulojplytsls.tlxoymjlajloldmssdtlxtje.ls.tut;ls.tjl.t
pm  tpls.tlyao lmjls.tlbostulojpldomplmslpabj;lshujtplh l.mylydttqty;
 ahutplahsls.tlbostulajls.tliuahjp,litjsdk,lojpls.tjltjstutpls.tlnmse.tj
ojplxtiojlsalbm tl.mylroetlpmdmitjsdklajls.tlsabtdlxt.mjpls.tlpaauclXhs
Wouklutwaqtpls.tlsabtdlojplyomp:

“Jablomj'slkahloy.owtp,lSawclKahlwhysj'slxtlyalxopclBostulbaj'sl.hus
kahc”

SawlboylolsumrdtlpmyeajetustpclS.tlxoymjlboylutrmddtp,lojpls.mylsmwtl.t
ysaaplaqtulmsloldmssdtlb.mdt,lios.tumjilutyadhsmaj;lsaanlmjlolxmilxutos.
ojplxtiojclB.tjl.tltjstutpls.tlnmse.tjl utytjsdk,lbms.lxas.ltktyly.hs
ojpliua mjilrauls.tlsabtdlbms.l.myl.ojpy,lojl.ajauoxdtlstysmwajklar
yhpylojplbostulboylpum  mjilruawl.mylroetclXhslb.tjl.tltwtuitplruaw
s.tlsabtd,l.tlboyljaslktslyosmyroesauk,lrauls.tledtojlstuumsauklysa  tp
y.auslosl.myle.mjlojpl.mylvoby,ldmntlolwoyn;lxtdablojplxtkajpls.myldmjt
s.tutlboylolpounltz ojytlarlhjmuumiostplyamdls.osly utoplpabjbouplmj
ruajslojplxoenbouplouahjpl.myljtenclWouklsaanl.mwlmjl.ojp,lojplb.tjly.t
boylpajtlbms.l.mwl.tlboylolwojlojplolxuas.tu,lbms.ahslpmysmjesmajlar
eadau,lojpl.mylyoshuostpl.omulboyljtosdklxuhy.tp,lojplmsyly.auslehudy
buahi.slmjsalolpomjsklojplykwwtsumeodlitjtuodltrrtescl[.tl umqostdk
ywaas.tplahsls.tlehudy,lbms.ldoxaulojplpmrrmehdsk,lojpl doystutpl.my
.omuledaytlpabjlsal.myl.top;lraul.tl.tdplehudylsalxtltrrtwmjost,lojpl.my
abjlrmddtpl.myldmrtlbms.lxmsstujtyyc]lS.tjlWoukliaslahslolyhmslarl.my
edas.mjils.osl.oplxttjlhytplajdklajlYhjpokylphumjilsbalktouy--s.tklbtut
ymw dkleoddtpl.myl“as.tuledas.ty”--ojplyalxkls.oslbtlnjabls.tlymftlarl.my
boupuaxtclS.tlimudl“ hsl.mwlsalumi.sy”lorstul.tl.oplputyytpl.mwytdr;
y.tlxhssajtpl.myljtosluahjpoxahslh lsal.myle.mj,lshujtpl.mylqoysly.mus
eaddoulpabjlaqtul.myly.ahdptuy,lxuhy.tpl.mwlarrlojpleuabjtpl.mwlbms.
.myly tendtplysuobl.oscl.tljabldaantpltzettpmjidklmw uaqtplojp
hjeawrausoxdtcl.tlboylrhddkloylhjeawrausoxdtloyl.tldaantp;lrauls.tut
boylolutysuomjsloxahslb.adtledas.tylojpledtojdmjtyyls.oslioddtpl.mwcl.t
.a tpls.oslWouklbahdplrauitsl.myly.aty,lxhsls.tl.a tlboylxdmi.stp;ly.t
eaostpls.twls.auahi.dklbms.lsoddab,loylboyls.tlehysaw,lojplxuahi.s
s.twlahscl.tldaysl.mylstw tulojplyompl.tlboylodbokylxtmjilwoptlsalpa
tqtuks.mjil.tlpmpj'slbojslsalpaclXhslWouklyomp,l tuyhoymqtdk:

“ dtoyt,lSaw--s.os'yloliaaplxakc”

Yal.tliaslmjsals.tly.atylyjoudmjiclWouklboylyaajlutopk,lojpls.tls.utt
e.mdputjlytslahslraulYhjpok-ye.aad--ol doetls.oslSawl.ostplbms.l.mylb.adt
.tous;lxhslYmplojplWouklbtutlrajplarlmsc

Yoxxos.-ye.aadl.ahuylbtutlruawljmjtlsal.odr- oyslstj;lojpls.tjle.hue.
ytuqmetclSbalarls.tle.mdputjlodbokylutwomjtplrauls.tlytuwajlqadhjsoumdk,
ojpls.tlas.tulodbokylutwomjtplsaa--raulysuajitulutoyajyclS.tle.hue.'y
.mi.-xoentp,lhjehy.majtpl tbylbahdplytosloxahsls.uttl.hjputpl tuyajy;
s.tltpmrmetlboylxhslolywodd,l domjlorromu,lbms.lolyauslarl mjtlxaoup
sutt-xazlajlsa larlmslraulolystt dtclOsls.tlpaaulSawlpua  tplxoenlolyst 
ojploeeaystplolYhjpok-putyytpleawuopt:

“Yok,lXmddk,liaslolkoddtulsments?”

“Ktyc”

“B.os'ddlkahlsontlraul.tu?”

“B.os'ddlkahlimqt?”

“ mtetlarldmenumy.lojplolrmy.-.aanc”

“Dtyylyttl'twc”

Sawltz.mxmstpclS.tklbtutlyosmyroesauk,lojpls.tl ua tuskle.ojitpl.ojpyc
S.tjlSawlsuoptploleah dtlarlb.mstloddtkylrauls.uttlutplsmentsy,lojplyawt
ywoddlsumrdtlaulas.tulrauloleah dtlarlxdhtlajtycl.tlbokdomplas.tu
xakyloyls.tkleowt,lojplbtjslajlxhkmjilsmentsylarlqoumahyleadauylstj
aulrmrsttjlwmjhstyldajitucl.tltjstutpls.tle.hue.,ljab,lbms.lolybouw
arledtojlojpljamyklxakylojplimudy,l uaettptplsal.mylytoslojplysoustp
olghouutdlbms.ls.tlrmuyslxakls.osleowtl.ojpkclS.tlstoe.tu,loliuoqt,
tdptudklwoj,lmjsturtutp;ls.tjlshujtpl.mylxoenlolwawtjslojplSawl hddtplo
xak'yl.omulmjls.tljtzslxtje.,lojplboyloxyauxtplmjl.mylxaanlb.tjls.tlxak
shujtplouahjp;lyshenlol mjlmjlojas.tulxak,l utytjsdk,lmjlauptulsal.tou
.mwlyokl“Ahe.!”lojpliasloljtblut umwojplruawl.mylstoe.tuclSaw'ylb.adt
edoyylbtutlarlol osstuj--utysdtyy,ljamyk,lojplsuahxdtyawtclB.tjls.tkleowt
salutemstls.tmuldtyyajy,ljaslajtlarls.twlnjtbl.mylqtuytyl turtesdk,lxhs
.oplsalxtl uaw stploddlodajicl.abtqtu,ls.tklbauumtpls.uahi.,lojpltoe.
iasl.mylutboup--mjlywoddlxdhtlsmentsy,ltoe.lbms.lol oyyoitlarlYeum shut
ajlms;ltoe.lxdhtlsmentslboyl oklraulsbalqtuytylarls.tlutemsosmajclStj
xdhtlsmentsyltghoddtplolutplajt,lojpleahdplxtltze.ojitplraulms;lstjlutp
smentsyltghoddtplolktddablajt;lraulstjlktddablsmentsyls.tlyh tumjstjptjs
ioqtlolqtukl domjdklxahjplXmxdtl(baus.lrauskletjsylmjls.aytltoyk
smwty)lsals.tl h mdcl.ablwojklarlwklutoptuylbahdpl.oqtls.tlmjphysuklojp
o  dmeosmajlsalwtwaumftlsbals.ahyojplqtuyty,ltqtjlraulolPautlXmxdt?lOjp
ktslWoukl.oploeghmutplsbalXmxdtylmjls.mylbok--mslboyls.tl osmtjslbaunlar
sbalktouy--ojplolxaklarlItuwojl outjsoitl.oplbajlrahulaulrmqtcl.tlajet
utemstpls.uttls.ahyojplqtuytylbms.ahslysa  mji;lxhsls.tlysuomjlh ajl.my
wtjsodlroehdsmtylboylsaaliutos,lojpl.tlboyldmssdtlxtsstuls.ojlojlmpmas
ruawls.oslpoklraus.--oliumtqahylwmyraushjtlrauls.tlye.aad,lraulajliutos
aeeoymajy,lxtrautleaw ojk,ls.tlyh tumjstjptjsl(oylSawltz utyytplms)
.oplodbokylwoptls.mylxakleawtlahslojpl“y utopl.mwytdrc”lAjdkls.tladptu
 h mdylwojoitplsalntt ls.tmulsmentsylojplysmenlsals.tmulstpmahylbaun
dajiltjahi.lsalitslolXmxdt,lojplyals.tlptdmqtuklarlajtlarls.tytl umfty
boyloluoutlojpljastbaus.klemuehwysojet;ls.tlyheetyyrhdl h mdlboylya
iutoslojpleajy mehahylrauls.oslpokls.oslajls.tly asltqtuklye.adou'y
.touslboylrmutplbms.lolruty.lowxmsmajls.oslarstjldoystploleah dt
arlbttnyclMslmyl ayymxdtls.oslSaw'ylwtjsodlysawoe.l.opljtqtulutoddk
.hjitutplraulajtlarls.aytl umfty,lxhslhjghtysmajoxdkl.myltjsmutlxtmji
.oplraulwojklolpokldajitplrauls.tlidauklojpls.tltedosls.osleowtlbms.lmsc

Mjlphtleahuytls.tlyh tumjstjptjslysaaplh lmjlruajslarls.tl hd ms,lbms.
oledaytpl.kwj-xaanlmjl.myl.ojplojpl.mylrautrmjitulmjytustplxtsbttjlmsy
dtoqty,lojpleawwojptplosstjsmajclB.tjlolYhjpok-ye.aadlyh tumjstjptjs
wontyl.mylehysawoukldmssdtly tte.,lol.kwj-xaanlmjls.tl.ojplmyloy
jtetyyoukloylmyls.tlmjtqmsoxdtly.ttslarlwhymelmjls.tl.ojplarlolymjitu
b.alysojpylraubouplajls.tl dosrauwlojplymjiylolyadalosloleajetus--s.ahi.
b.k,lmylolwkystuk:lrauljtms.tuls.tl.kwj-xaanljauls.tly.ttslarlwhyme
myltqtulutrtuutplsalxkls.tlyhrrtutuclS.mylyh tumjstjptjslboylolydmw
eutoshutlarls.musk-rmqt,lbms.lolyojpkliaosttlojply.auslyojpkl.omu;l.t
bautlolysmrrlysojpmji-eaddoulb.aytlh  tultpitlodwayslutoe.tpl.myltouy
ojplb.aytly.ou l amjsylehuqtplraubouploxutoysls.tleaujtuylarl.mylwahs.--o
rtjetls.osleaw tddtplolysuomi.sldaanahslo.top,lojplolshujmjilarls.t
b.adtlxapklb.tjlolymptlqmtblboylutghmutp;l.myle.mjlboyl ua  tplajlo
y utopmjileuoqoslb.me.lboyloylxuaoplojployldajiloylolxojn-jast,lojpl.op
rumjitpltjpy;l.mylxaaslsatylbtutlshujtply.ou dklh ,lmjls.tlroy.maj
arls.tlpok,ldmntlydtmi.-uhjjtuy--ojltrrtesl osmtjsdklojpldoxaumahydk
 uaphetplxkls.tlkahjilwtjlxklymssmjilbms.ls.tmulsatyl utyytploiomjyslo
boddlraul.ahuylsaits.tuclWuclBodstuylboylqtukltoujtyslarlwmtj,lojplqtuk
ymjetutlojpl.ajtyslosl.tous;lojpl.tl.tdplyoeutpls.mjiylojpl doety
mjlyhe.lutqtutjet,lojplyalyt ouostpls.twlruawlbaudpdklwosstuy,ls.os
hjeajyemahydklsal.mwytdrl.mylYhjpok-ye.aadlqametl.oploeghmutplol tehdmou
mjsajosmajlb.me.lboylb.addkloxytjslajlbttn-pokycl.tlxtiojlorstuls.my
roy.maj:

“Jab,le.mdputj,lMlbojslkahloddlsalymslh lvhysloylysuomi.slojpl utsskloy
kahleojlojplimqtlwtloddlkahulosstjsmajlraulolwmjhstlaulsbaclS.tut--s.os
mylmsclS.oslmyls.tlbokliaapldmssdtlxakylojplimudyly.ahdplpaclMlyttlajt
dmssdtlimudlb.almyldaanmjilahslarls.tlbmjpab--Mlowloruomply.tls.mjnylM
owlahsls.tutlyawtb.tut-- tu.o ylh lmjlajtlarls.tlsuttylwonmjiloly tte.
sals.tldmssdtlxmupycl[O  dohymqtlsmsstuc]lMlbojslsalstddlkahl.abliaaplms
wontylwtlrttdlsalyttlyalwojklxumi.s,ledtojldmssdtlroetyloyytwxdtplmjlo
 doetldmntls.my,ldtoujmjilsalpalumi.slojplxtliaapc”lOjplyalraus.lojplya
ajclMslmyljasljtetyyouklsalytslpabjls.tlutyslarls.tlauosmajclMslboylarlo
 osstujlb.me.lpatyljaslqouk,lojplyalmslmylrowmdmoulsalhyloddc

S.tldosstuls.muplarls.tly tte.lboylwouutplxkls.tlutyhw smajlarlrmi.sy
ojplas.tuluteutosmajylowajiletusomjlarls.tlxoplxaky,lojplxklrmpitsmjiy
ojplb.my tumjiyls.osltzstjptplroulojplbmpt,lboy.mjiltqtjlsals.tlxoytylar
myadostplojplmjeauuh smxdtluaenyldmntlYmplojplWoukclXhsljabltqtuklyahjp
etoytplyhpptjdk,lbms.ls.tlyhxymptjetlarlWuclBodstuy'lqamet,lojpls.t
eajedhymajlarls.tly tte.lboylutetmqtplbms.lolxhuyslarlymdtjsliuosmshptc

Oliaapl ouslarls.tlb.my tumjil.oplxttjlaeeoymajtplxklojltqtjslb.me.lboy
wautlauldtyyluout--s.tltjsuojetlarlqmymsauy:ldobktulS.ose.tu,loeeaw ojmtp
xklolqtuklrttxdtlojploitplwoj;lolrmjt,l ausdk,lwmppdt-oitplitjsdtwoj
bms.lmuaj-iuokl.omu;lojplolpmijmrmtpldopklb.alboylpahxsdtyyls.tldosstu'y
bmrtclS.tldopklboyldtopmjilole.mdpclSawl.oplxttjlutysdtyylojplrhddlar
e.ormjiylojplut mjmjiy;leajyemtjet-ywmsstj,lsaa--.tleahdpljaslwttslOwk
Dobutjet'yltkt,l.tleahdpljaslxuaanl.tuldaqmjilioftclXhslb.tjl.tlyobls.my
ywoddljtbeawtul.mylyahdlboyloddloxdoftlbms.lxdmyylmjlolwawtjsclS.tljtzs
wawtjsl.tlboyl“y.abmjilarr”lbms.loddl.mylwmi.s--ehrrmjilxaky,l hddmji
.omu,lwonmjilroety--mjlolbaup,lhymjiltqtuklousls.oslyttwtpldmntdklsa
royemjostlolimudlojplbmjl.tulo  dohytcl.myltzodsosmajl.oplxhslajt
oddak--s.tlwtwauklarl.myl.hwmdmosmajlmjls.mylojitd'yliouptj--ojpls.os
uteauplmjlyojplboylroyslboy.mjilahs,lhjptuls.tlboqtylarl.o  mjtyyls.os
btutlybtt mjilaqtulmsljabc

S.tlqmymsauylbtutlimqtjls.tl.mi.tyslytoslarl.ajau,lojploylyaajloylWuc
Bodstuy'ly tte.lboylrmjmy.tp,l.tlmjsuaphetpls.twlsals.tlye.aadclS.t
wmppdt-oitplwojlshujtplahslsalxtlol uapmimahyl tuyajoit--jaldtyylolajt
s.ojls.tleahjsklvhpit--odsaits.tuls.tlwayslohihysleutosmajls.tytle.mdputj
.opltqtuldaantplh aj--ojpls.tklbajptutplb.oslnmjplarlwostumodl.tlboylwopt
ar--ojpls.tkl.odrlbojstplsal.toul.mwluaou,lojplbtutl.odrloruompl.tlwmi.s,
saacl.tlboylruawlEajysojsmja dt,lsbtdqtlwmdtylobok--yal.tl.oplsuoqtddtp,
ojplyttjls.tlbaudp--s.tytlqtukltktyl.opldaantplh ajls.tleahjsk
eahus-.ahyt--b.me.lboylyomplsal.oqtlolsmjluaarclS.tlobtlb.me.ls.tyt
utrdtesmajylmjy mutplboylosstystplxkls.tlmw utyymqtlymdtjetlojpls.t
uojnylarlysoumjiltktyclS.mylboyls.tliutoslVhpitlS.ose.tu,lxuas.tular
s.tmulabjldobktuclVtrrlS.ose.tulmwwtpmostdklbtjslrauboup,lsalxtlrowmdmou
bms.ls.tliutoslwojlojplxtltjqmtplxkls.tlye.aadclMslbahdpl.oqtlxttjlwhyme
sal.mylyahdlsal.touls.tlb.my tumjiy:

“Daanlosl.mw,lVmw!l.t'yloliamjilh ls.tutclYok--daan!l.t'yloliamjilsa
y.ontl.ojpylbms.l.mw--.tl_my_ly.onmjil.ojpylbms.l.mw!lXklvmjiy,lpaj'slkah
bmy.lkahlboylVtrr?”

WuclBodstuylrtddlsal“y.abmjilarr,”lbms.loddlyausylarlarrmemodlxhysdmjiy
ojploesmqmsmty,limqmjilauptuy,lptdmqtumjilvhpiwtjsy,lpmye.ouimji
pmutesmajyl.tut,ls.tut,ltqtukb.tutls.osl.tleahdplrmjplolsouitsclS.t
dmxuoumojl“y.abtplarr”--uhjjmjil.ms.tulojpls.ms.tulbms.l.mylouwylrhddlar
xaanylojplwonmjilolptodlarls.tly dhsstulojplrhyyls.oslmjyteslohs.aumsk
ptdmi.sylmjclS.tlkahjildopklstoe.tuyl“y.abtplarr”--xtjpmjilybttsdklaqtu
 h mdyls.oslbtutldostdklxtmjilxaztp,ldmrsmjil utssklboujmjilrmjituy
oslxopldmssdtlxakylojpl ossmjiliaaplajtyldaqmjidkclS.tlkahjilitjsdtwtj
stoe.tuyl“y.abtplarr”lbms.lywoddlyeadpmjiylojplas.tuldmssdtlpmy dokylar
ohs.aumsklojplrmjtlosstjsmajlsalpmyem dmjt--ojplwayslarls.tlstoe.tuy,lar
xas.lytzty,lrahjplxhymjtyylh losls.tldmxuouk,lxkls.tl hd ms;lojplmslboy
xhymjtyyls.oslrutghtjsdkl.oplsalxtlpajtlaqtuloiomjlsbalauls.uttlsmwty
(bms.lwhe.lyttwmjilqtzosmaj)clS.tldmssdtlimudyl“y.abtplarr”lmjlqoumahy
boky,lojpls.tldmssdtlxakyl“y.abtplarr”lbms.lyhe.lpmdmitjetls.osls.tlomu
boyls.menlbms.l o tulbopylojpls.tlwhuwhularlyehrrdmjiyclOjploxaqtlms
oddls.tliutoslwojlyoslojplxtowtplolwovtysmelvhpmemodlywmdtlh ajlodd
s.tl.ahyt,lojplbouwtpl.mwytdrlmjls.tlyhjlarl.mylabjliuojpthu--raul.tlboy
“y.abmjilarr,”lsaac

S.tutlboylajdklajtls.mjilbojsmjilsalwontlWuclBodstuy'lteysoykleaw dtst,
ojpls.oslboylole.ojetlsalptdmqtulolXmxdt- umftlojpltz.mxmslol uapmikc
Ytqtuodl h mdyl.oplolrtblktddablsmentsy,lxhsljajtl.opltjahi.--.tl.oplxttj
ouahjplowajils.tlysoul h mdylmjghmumjicl.tlbahdpl.oqtlimqtjlbaudpy,ljab,
sal.oqtls.oslItuwojldoplxoenloiomjlbms.lolyahjplwmjpc

Ojpljablosls.mylwawtjs,lb.tjl.a tlboylptop,lSawlYobktuleowtlraubouplbms.
jmjtlktddablsmentsy,ljmjtlutplsmentsy,lojplstjlxdhtlajty,lojplptwojptp
olXmxdtclS.mylboylols.hjptuxadslahslarloledtoulynkclBodstuylboyljas
tz tesmjilojlo  dmeosmajlruawls.mylyahuetlrauls.tljtzslstjlktouyclXhs
s.tutlboyljalitssmjilouahjplms--.tutlbtutls.tletusmrmtple.teny,lojpls.tk
btutliaaplrauls.tmulroetclSawlboyls.tutrautltdtqostplsalol doetlbms.
s.tlVhpitlojpls.tlas.tultdtes,lojpls.tliutosljtbylboylojjahjetplruaw
.topghoustuyclMslboyls.tlwayslyshjjmjilyhu umytlarls.tlpteopt,lojp
yal uarahjplboyls.tlytjyosmajls.oslmsldmrstpls.tljtbl.tualh lsals.t
vhpmemodlajt'ylodsmshpt,lojpls.tlye.aadl.oplsbalwouqtdylsalioftlh aj
mjl doetlarlajtclS.tlxakylbtutloddltostjlh lbms.ltjqk--xhsls.aytls.os
yhrrtutpls.tlxmsstutysl ojiylbtutls.aytlb.al tuetmqtplsaaldostls.osls.tk
s.twytdqtyl.opleajsumxhstplsals.myl.ostply dtjpaulxklsuopmjilsmentsylsa
Sawlrauls.tlbtods.l.tl.oplowoyytplmjlytddmjilb.mstboy.mjil umqmdtityc
S.tytlpty mytpls.twytdqty,loylxtmjils.tlph tylarlolbmdklruohp,lo
ihmdtrhdlyjontlmjls.tliuoyyc

S.tl umftlboylptdmqtutplsalSawlbms.loylwhe.ltrrhymajloyls.t
yh tumjstjptjsleahdpl hw lh lhjptuls.tlemuehwysojety;lxhslmsldoentp
yawtb.oslarls.tlsuhtlihy.,lrauls.tl aaulrtddab'ylmjysmjeslsohi.sl.mw
s.osls.tutlboylolwkystukl.tutls.osleahdpljaslbtddlxtouls.tldmi.s,
 tu.o y;lmslboylymw dkl ut aystuahyls.osls.mylxakl.oplbout.ahytplsba
s.ahyojply.toqtylarlYeum shuodlbmypawlajl.myl utwmyty--olpaftjlbahdp
ysuomjl.myleo oemsk,lbms.ahslolpahxsc

OwklDobutjetlboyl uahplojplidop,lojply.tlsumtplsalwontlSawlyttlmslmj
.tulroet--xhsl.tlbahdpj'sldaanclY.tlbajptutp;ls.tjly.tlboylvhysloliuomj
suahxdtp;ljtzslolpmwlyhy memajleowtlojplbtjs--eowtloiomj;ly.tlbose.tp;
olrhusmqtlidojetlsadpl.tulbaudpy--ojpls.tjl.tul.touslxuant,lojply.tlboy
vtodahy,lojplojiuk,lojpls.tlstouyleowtlojply.tl.ostpltqtukxapkclSawlways
arloddl(y.tls.ahi.s)c

Sawlboylmjsuaphetplsals.tlVhpit;lxhsl.mylsajihtlboylsmtp,l.mylxutos.
bahdpl.oupdkleawt,l.myl.touslghontp-- ousdklxteohytlarls.tlobrhd
iutosjtyylarls.tlwoj,lxhslwomjdklxteohytl.tlboyl.tul outjscl.tlbahdp
.oqtldmntplsalroddlpabjlojplbauy.m l.mw,lmrlmslbtutlmjls.tlpounclS.t
Vhpitl hsl.myl.ojplajlSaw'yl.toplojpleoddtpl.mwlolrmjtldmssdtlwoj,lojp
oyntpl.mwlb.osl.myljowtlboyclS.tlxaklysowwtutp,lioy tp,lojpliaslmslahs:

“Sawc”

“A.,lja,ljaslSaw--mslmy--”

“S.awoyc”

“O.,ls.os'ylmsclMls.ahi.sls.tutlboylwautlsalms,lwokxtclS.os'ylqtuklbtddc
Xhslkah'qtlojas.tulajtlMlpoutyok,lojplkah'ddlstddlmslsalwt,lbaj'slkah?”

“Stddls.tlitjsdtwojlkahulas.tuljowt,lS.awoy,”lyomplBodstuy,l“ojplyok
ymuclKahlwhysj'slrauitslkahulwojjtuyc”

“S.awoylYobktu--ymuc”

“S.os'ylms!lS.os'yloliaaplxakclRmjtlxakclRmjt,lwojdkldmssdtlrtddabclSba
s.ahyojplqtuytylmyloliutoslwojk--qtuk,lqtukliutoslwojkclOjplkahljtqtuleoj
xtlyauuklrauls.tlsuahxdtlkahlsaanlsaldtoujls.tw;lraulnjabdtpitlmylbaus.
wautls.ojlojks.mjils.tutlmylmjls.tlbaudp;lms'ylb.oslwontyliutoslwtj
ojpliaaplwtj;lkah'ddlxtloliutoslwojlojploliaaplwojlkahuytdr,lyawt
pok,lS.awoy,lojpls.tjlkah'ddldaanlxoenlojplyok,lMs'yloddlabmjilsals.t
 utemahylYhjpok-ye.aadl umqmdtitylarlwklxak.aap--ms'yloddlabmjilsa
wklptoulstoe.tuyls.oslsohi.slwtlsaldtouj--ms'yloddlabmjilsals.tliaap
yh tumjstjptjs,lb.altjeahuoitplwt,lojplbose.tplaqtulwt,lojplioqtlwtlo
xtohsmrhdlXmxdt--oly dtjpmpltdtiojslXmxdt--salntt lojpl.oqtlmsloddlraulwk
abj,lodboky--ms'yloddlabmjilsalumi.slxumjimjilh !lS.oslmylb.oslkahlbmdd
yok,lS.awoy--ojplkahlbahdpj'slsontlojklwajtklrauls.aytlsbals.ahyojp
qtuyty--jalmjpttplkahlbahdpj'sclOjpljablkahlbahdpj'slwmjplstddmjilwtlojp
s.myldopklyawtlarls.tls.mjiylkah'qtldtoujtp--ja,lMlnjablkahlbahdpj's--rau
btloutl uahplarldmssdtlxakyls.osldtoujclJab,ljalpahxslkahlnjabls.tljowty
arloddls.tlsbtdqtlpmyem dtyclBaj'slkahlstddlhyls.tljowtylarls.tlrmuys
sbals.oslbtutlo  amjstp?”

Sawlboylshiimjiloslolxhssaj-.adtlojpldaanmjily.tt my.cl.tlxdhy.tp,
jab,lojpl.myltktylrtddclWuclBodstuy'l.touslyojnlbms.mjl.mwcl.tlyomp
sal.mwytdr,lmslmyljasl ayymxdtls.osls.tlxakleojlojybtuls.tlymw dtys
ghtysmaj--b.kl_pmp_ls.tlVhpitloynl.mw?lKtsl.tlrtdslaxdmitplsaly tonlh 
ojplyok:

“Ojybtuls.tlitjsdtwoj,lS.awoy--paj'slxtloruompc”

Sawlysmddl.hjilrmutc

“JablMlnjablkah'ddlstddlwt,”lyompls.tldopkcl“S.tljowtylarls.tlrmuyslsba
pmyem dtylbtut--”

“_PoqmplOjplIadmo.!_”

Dtslhylpuobls.tlehusomjlarle.oumsklaqtuls.tlutyslarls.tlyetjtc




E.O STUlQ

OXAHSl.odr- oyslstjls.tleuoentplxtddlarls.tlywoddle.hue.lxtiojlsalumji,
ojpl utytjsdkls.tl ta dtlxtiojlsalios.tulrauls.tlwaujmjilytuwajclS.t
Yhjpok-ye.aadle.mdputjlpmysumxhstpls.twytdqtyloxahsls.tl.ahytlojp
aeeh mtpl tbylbms.ls.tmul outjsy,lyaloylsalxtlhjptulyh tuqmymajclOhjs
 addkleowt,lojplSawlojplYmplojplWouklyoslbms.l.tu--Sawlxtmjil doetpljtzs
s.tlomydt,lmjlauptuls.osl.tlwmi.slxtloylrouloboklruawls.tla tjlbmjpab
ojpls.tlytphesmqtlahsymptlyhwwtulyetjtyloyl ayymxdtclS.tleuabplrmdtplh 
s.tlomydty:ls.tloitplojpljttpkl ayswoystu,lb.al.oplyttjlxtsstulpoky;
s.tlwokaulojpl.mylbmrt--rauls.tkl.oplolwokauls.tut,lowajilas.tu
hjjtetyyoumty;ls.tlvhysmetlarls.tl toet;ls.tlbmpablPahidoyy,lromu,
ywous,lojplrausk,lolitjtuahy,liaap-.toustplyahdlojplbtdd-sa-pa,l.tul.mdd
wojymajls.tlajdkl odoetlmjls.tlsabj,lojpls.tlwaysl.ay msoxdtlojplwhe.
s.tlwaysldoqmy.lmjls.tlwosstularlrtysmqmsmtyls.oslYscl tstuyxhuileahdp
xaoys;ls.tlxtjslojplqtjtuoxdtlWovaulojplWuyclBoup;ldobktulUmqtuyaj,ls.t
jtbljasoxdtlruawlolpmysojet;ljtzsls.tlxtddtlarls.tlqmddoit,lraddabtplxk
olsuaa larldobj-edoplojplumxxaj-ptentplkahjil.tous-xutontuy;ls.tjlodd
s.tlkahjiledtunylmjlsabjlmjlolxapk--rauls.tkl.oplysaaplmjls.tlqtysmxhdt
yhenmjils.tmuleojt-.topy,lolemuedmjilboddlarlamdtplojplymw tumji
opwmutuy,lsmddls.tldoyslimudl.opluhjls.tmuliojsdts;lojpldoyslarloddleowt
s.tlWaptdlXak,lBmddmtlWhrrtuyaj,lsonmjiloyl.ttprhdleoutlarl.mylwas.tuloy
mrly.tlbtutlehslidoyycl.tlodbokylxuahi.sl.mylwas.tulsale.hue.,lojplboy
s.tl umptlarloddls.tlwosuajyclS.tlxakyloddl.ostpl.mw,l.tlboylya
iaapclOjplxtympty,l.tl.oplxttjl“s.uabjlh lsals.tw”lyalwhe.cl.my
b.mstl.ojpntue.mtrlboyl.ojimjilahslarl.myl aentslxt.mjp,loylhyhodlaj
Yhjpoky--oeemptjsoddkclSawl.opljal.ojpntue.mtr,lojpl.tldaantplh ajlxaky
b.al.oploylyjaxyc

S.tleajiutiosmajlxtmjilrhddkloyytwxdtp,ljab,ls.tlxtddluojilajetlwaut,
salboujldoiioupylojplysuoiidtuy,lojpls.tjlolyadtwjl.hy.lrtddlh ajls.t
e.hue.lb.me.lboylajdklxuantjlxkls.tlsmsstumjilojplb.my tumjilarls.t
e.amulmjls.tlioddtukclS.tle.amulodbokylsmsstutplojplb.my tutplodd
s.uahi.lytuqmetclS.tutlboylajetlole.hue.le.amuls.oslboyljaslmdd-xutp,
xhslMl.oqtlrauiasstjlb.tutlmslboy,ljabclMslboyloliutoslwojklktouyloia,
ojplMleojlyeouetdklutwtwxtulojks.mjiloxahslms,lxhslMls.mjnlmslboylmj
yawtlrautmijleahjsukc

S.tlwmjmystulioqtlahsls.tl.kwj,lojplutoplmsls.uahi.lbms.lolutdmy.,lmjlo
 tehdmoulyskdtlb.me.lboylwhe.lopwmutplmjls.osl ouslarls.tleahjsukcl.my
qametlxtiojlajlolwtpmhwlntklojpledmwxtplystopmdklh lsmddlmslutoe.tplo
etusomjl amjs,lb.tutlmslxautlbms.lysuajiltw .oymylh ajls.tlsa wayslbaup
ojpls.tjl dhjitplpabjloylmrlruawloly umji-xaoup:

Y.oddlMlxtleou-um-tplsatls.tlynmty,lajlrdab'ukl_xtpy_larltoyt,

B.mdyslas.tuylrmi.slsalbmjls.tl umft,lojplyomdls.ua'l_xdaap_-klytoy?

.tlboylutiouptploylolbajpturhdlutoptuclOsle.hue.l“yaemoxdty”l.tlboy
odbokyleoddtplh ajlsalutopl atsuk;lojplb.tjl.tlboyls.uahi.,ls.tldopmty
bahdpldmrslh ls.tmul.ojpylojpldtsls.twlroddl.td dtyydklmjls.tmuldo y,
ojpl“bodd”ls.tmultkty,lojply.ontls.tmul.topy,loylwhe.loylsalyok,l“Baupy
eojjasltz utyylms;lmslmylsaalxtohsmrhd,lSAAlxtohsmrhdlrauls.mylwausod
tous.c”

Orstuls.tl.kwjl.oplxttjlyhji,ls.tlUtqclWuclY uoihtlshujtpl.mwytdrlmjsa
olxhddtsmj-xaoup,lojplutoplarrl“jasmety”larlwttsmjiylojplyaemtsmtylojp
s.mjiylsmddlmslyttwtpls.osls.tldmyslbahdplysutse.lahslsals.tleuoenlar
paaw--olghttulehysawlb.me.lmylysmddlnt slh lmjlOwtumeo,ltqtjlmjlemsmty,
obokl.tutlmjls.myloitlarloxhjpojsljtby o tuyclArstj,ls.tldtyyls.tutlmy
salvhysmrklolsuopmsmajodlehysaw,ls.tl.ouptulmslmylsalitslumplarlmsc

Ojpljabls.tlwmjmystul uoktpclOliaap,litjtuahyl uoktulmslboy,lojplbtjs
mjsalptsomdy:lmsl dtoptplrauls.tle.hue.,lojpls.tldmssdtle.mdputjlarls.t
e.hue.;lrauls.tlas.tule.hue.tylarls.tlqmddoit;lrauls.tlqmddoitlmsytdr;
rauls.tleahjsk;lrauls.tlYsost;lrauls.tlYsostlarrmetuy;lrauls.tlHjmstp
Ysosty;lrauls.tle.hue.tylarls.tlHjmstplYsosty;lraulEajiutyy;lrauls.t
 utymptjs;lrauls.tlarrmetuylarls.tlIaqtujwtjs;lraul aaulyomdauy,lsayytp
xklysauwklytoy;lrauls.tla  utyytplwmddmajyliuaojmjilhjptuls.tl.ttdlar
Thua tojlwajoue.mtylojplAumtjsodlpty asmywy;lraulyhe.loyl.oqtls.tldmi.s
ojpls.tliaaplsmpmjiy,lojplktsl.oqtljasltktylsalyttljaultouylsal.tou
bms.od;lrauls.tl.tos.tjlmjls.tlroulmydojpylarls.tlyto;lojpledaytplbms.
olyh  dmeosmajls.osls.tlbaupyl.tlboyloxahslsaly tonlwmi.slrmjpliuoet
ojplroqau,lojplxtloylyttplyabjlmjlrtusmdtliuahjp,lkmtdpmjilmjlsmwtlo
iuostrhdl.ouqtyslarliaapclOwtjc

S.tutlboyloluhysdmjilarlputyyty,lojpls.tlysojpmjileajiutiosmajlyoslpabjc
S.tlxaklb.aytl.mysaukls.mylxaanlutdostylpmpljasltjvakls.tl uoktu,l.t
ajdkltjphutplms--mrl.tltqtjlpmpls.oslwhe.cl.tlboylutysmqtloddls.uahi.lms;
.tlnt slsoddklarls.tlptsomdylarls.tl uoktu,lhjeajyemahydk--raul.tlboyljas
dmystjmji,lxhsl.tlnjtbls.tliuahjplarladp,lojpls.tledtuikwoj'ylutihdou
uahstlaqtulms--ojplb.tjloldmssdtlsumrdtlarljtblwosstulboylmjstudouptp,
.myltoulptstestplmslojpl.mylb.adtljoshutlutytjstplms;l.tleajymptutp
oppmsmajylhjromu,lojplyeahjputddkclMjls.tlwmpyslarls.tl uoktulolrdkl.op
dmslajls.tlxoenlarls.tl tblmjlruajslarl.mwlojplsaushutpl.myly mumslxk
eodwdkluhxxmjilmsyl.ojpylsaits.tu,ltwxuoemjilmsyl.toplbms.lmsylouwy,lojp
 admy.mjilmslyalqmiauahydkls.oslmslyttwtplsalodwaysl ousleaw ojklbms.
s.tlxapk,lojpls.tlydtjptuls.utoplarloljtenlboyltz aytplsalqmtb;lyeuo mji
msylbmjiylbms.lmsyl.mjpldtiylojplywaas.mjils.twlsalmsylxapkloylmrls.tk
.oplxttjleaos-somdy;liamjils.uahi.lmsylb.adtlsamdtsloylsuojghmddkloylmr
mslnjtblmslboyl turtesdklyortclOylmjpttplmslboy;lrauloylyautdkloylSaw'y
.ojpylmse.tplsaliuoxlraulmsls.tklpmpljaslpout--.tlxtdmtqtpl.mylyahdlbahdp
xtlmjysojsdklptysuaktplmrl.tlpmplyhe.lols.mjilb.mdtls.tl uoktulboyliamji
ajclXhslbms.ls.tledaymjilytjstjetl.myl.ojplxtiojlsalehuqtlojplystod
rauboup;lojpls.tlmjysojsls.tl“Owtj”lboylahsls.tlrdklboylol umyajtular
boucl.mylohjslptstestpls.tloeslojplwoptl.mwldtslmsliac

S.tlwmjmystulioqtlahsl.mylstzslojplpuajtplodajilwajasajahydkls.uahi.loj
ouihwtjsls.oslboylyal uaykls.oslwojklol.toplxklojplxklxtiojlsaljap--ojp
ktslmslboylojlouihwtjsls.oslptodslmjldmwmsdtyylrmutlojplxumwysajtlojp
s.mjjtpls.tl utptysmjtpltdteslpabjlsaloleaw ojklyalywoddloylsalxtl.oupdk
baus.ls.tlyoqmjiclSawleahjstpls.tl oitylarls.tlytuwaj;lorstule.hue.l.t
odbokylnjtbl.ablwojkl oityls.tutl.oplxttj,lxhsl.tlytdpawlnjtblojks.mji
tdytloxahsls.tlpmyeahuytcl.abtqtu,ls.mylsmwtl.tlboylutoddklmjstutystp
rauloldmssdtlb.mdtclS.tlwmjmystulwoptloliuojplojplwaqmjil meshutlarls.t
oyytwxdmjilsaits.tularls.tlbaudp'yl.aysylosls.tlwmddtjjmhwlb.tjls.tldmaj
ojpls.tldowxly.ahdpldmtlpabjlsaits.tulojploldmssdtle.mdply.ahdpldtop
s.twclXhsls.tl os.ay,ls.tldtyyaj,ls.tlwauodlarls.tliutosly tesoedt
btutldayslh ajls.tlxak;l.tlajdkls.ahi.slarls.tleajy mehahyjtyylarls.t
 umjem odle.ouoestulxtrautls.tlaj-daanmjiljosmajy;l.mylroetldmslbms.ls.t
s.ahi.s,lojpl.tlyomplsal.mwytdrls.osl.tlbmy.tpl.tleahdplxtls.osle.mdp,
mrlmslboylolsowtldmajc

Jabl.tldo ytplmjsalyhrrtumjiloiomj,loyls.tlpuklouihwtjslboylutyhwtpc
 utytjsdkl.tlxts.ahi.sl.mwlarlolsutoyhutl.tl.oplojpliaslmslahsclMslboy
oldouitlxdoenlxttsdtlbms.lrauwmpoxdtlvoby--ol“ mje.xhi,”l.tleoddtplmsclMs
boylmjlol tuehyymaj-eo lxazclS.tlrmuysls.mjils.tlxttsdtlpmplboylsa
sontl.mwlxkls.tlrmjituclOljoshuodlrmddm lraddabtp,ls.tlxttsdtlbtjs
rdahjptumjilmjsals.tlomydtlojpldmslajlmsylxoen,lojpls.tl.huslrmjitulbtjs
mjsals.tlxak'ylwahs.clS.tlxttsdtldokls.tutlbaunmjilmsyl.td dtyyldtiy,
hjoxdtlsalshujlaqtuclSawltktplms,lojpldajitplraulms;lxhslmslboylyortlahs
arl.mylutoe.clAs.tul ta dtlhjmjstutystplmjls.tlytuwajlrahjplutdmtrlmj
s.tlxttsdt,lojpls.tkltktplmslsaacl utytjsdklolqoiuojsl aapdtlpaileowt
mpdmjilodaji,lyoplosl.tous,ldofklbms.ls.tlyhwwtulyarsjtyylojpls.t
ghmts,lbtouklarleo smqmsk,lymi.mjilraule.ojitcl.tly mtpls.tlxttsdt;ls.t
puaa mjilsomdldmrstplojplboiitpcl.tlyhuqtktpls.tl umft;lbodntplouahjp
ms;lywtdsloslmslruawlolyortlpmysojet;lbodntplouahjplmsloiomj;liutb
xadptu,lojplsaanloledaytulywtdd;ls.tjldmrstpl.myldm lojplwoptlolimjitudk
yjose.loslms,lvhyslwmyymjilms;lwoptlojas.tu,lojplojas.tu;lxtiojlsaltjvak
s.tlpmqtuymaj;lyhxymptplsal.mylysawoe.lbms.ls.tlxttsdtlxtsbttjl.myl oby,
ojpleajsmjhtpl.myltz tumwtjsy;liutblbtouklosldoys,lojpls.tjlmjpmrrtutjs
ojploxytjs-wmjptpcl.myl.topljapptp,lojpldmssdtlxkldmssdtl.myle.mj
ptyetjptplojplsahe.tpls.tltjtwk,lb.alytmftplmsclS.tutlboyloly.ou lktd ,
olrdmuslarls.tl aapdt'yl.top,lojpls.tlxttsdtlrtddloleah dtlarlkoupy
obok,lojpldmslajlmsylxoenlajetlwautclS.tljtmi.xaumjily tesosauy
y.aanlbms.lolitjsdtlmjbouplvak,lytqtuodlroetylbtjslxt.mjplrojylojp
.ojp-ntue.mtry,lojplSawlboyltjsmutdkl.o  kclS.tlpaildaantplraadmy.,
ojpl uaxoxdklrtdslya;lxhsls.tutlboylutytjswtjslmjl.myl.tous,lsaa,lojplo
euoqmjilraulutqtjitclYal.tlbtjslsals.tlxttsdtlojplxtiojlolbouklossoenlaj
msloiomj;lvhw mjiloslmslruawltqtukl amjslarlolemuedt,ldmi.smjilbms.l.my
raut- obylbms.mjlojlmje.larls.tleutoshut,lwonmjiltqtjledaytulyjose.tylos
mslbms.l.mylstts.,lojplvtunmjil.myl.toplsmddl.myltouylrdo  tploiomjclXhs
.tliutblsmutplajetlwaut,lorstulolb.mdt;lsumtplsalowhytl.mwytdrlbms.lo
rdklxhslrahjpljalutdmtr;lraddabtplojlojslouahjp,lbms.l.myljaytledayt
sals.tlrdaau,lojplghmendklbtoumtplarls.os;lkobjtp,lymi.tp,lrauiasls.t
xttsdtltjsmutdk,lojplyoslpabjlajlmsclS.tjls.tutlboylolbmdplktd larloiajk
ojpls.tl aapdtlbtjslyomdmjilh ls.tlomydt;ls.tlktd yleajsmjhtp,lojplya
pmpls.tlpai;l.tleuayytpls.tl.ahytlmjlruajslarls.tlodsou;l.tlrdtb
pabjls.tlas.tulomydt;l.tleuayytplxtrautls.tlpaauy;l.tledowautplh ls.t
.awt-ysutse.;l.mylojihmy.liutblbms.l.myl uaiutyy,lsmddl utytjsdkl.tlboy
xhslolbaaddkleawtslwaqmjilmjlmsylauxmslbms.ls.tlidtowlojpls.tly ttplar
dmi.sclOsldoysls.tlruojsmelyhrrtutuly.ttutplruawlmsyleahuyt,lojply uoji
mjsalmsylwoystu'yldo ;l.tlrdhjilmslahslarls.tlbmjpab,lojpls.tlqametlar
pmysutyylghmendkls.mjjtploboklojplpmtplmjls.tlpmysojetc

Xkls.mylsmwtls.tlb.adtle.hue.lboylutp-roetplojplyhrraeosmjilbms.
yh  utyytpldohi.stu,lojpls.tlytuwajl.opleawtlsalolptoplysojpysmddc
S.tlpmyeahuytlboylutyhwtpl utytjsdk,lxhslmslbtjsldowtlojpl.odsmji,lodd
 ayymxmdmsklarlmw utyymqtjtyylxtmjiloslojltjp;lraultqtjls.tliuoqtys
ytjsmwtjsylbtutleajysojsdklxtmjilutetmqtplbms.lolywas.tutplxhuyslar
hj.adklwmus.,lhjptuleaqtularlyawtlutwastl tb-xoen,loylmrls.tl aaul ouyaj
.oplyomploluoutdklroetsmahyls.mjiclMslboylolitjhmjtlutdmtrlsals.tlb.adt
eajiutiosmajlb.tjls.tlauptodlboylaqtulojpls.tlxtjtpmesmajl uajahjetpc

SawlYobktulbtjsl.awtlghmstle.tturhd,ls.mjnmjilsal.mwytdrls.osls.tutlboy
yawtlyosmyroesmajloxahslpmqmjtlytuqmetlb.tjls.tutlboylolxmslarlqoumtsk
mjlmscl.tl.oplxhslajtlwouumjils.ahi.s;l.tlboylbmddmjils.osls.tlpai
y.ahdpl doklbms.l.myl mje.xhi,lxhsl.tlpmpljasls.mjnlmslboylh umi.slmj
.mwlsaleouuklmslarrc




E.O STUlQM

WAJPOKlwaujmjilrahjplSawlYobktulwmytuoxdtclWajpoklwaujmjilodbokylrahjp
.mwlya--xteohytlmslxtiojlojas.tulbttn'ylydablyhrrtumjilmjlye.aadcl.t
itjtuoddklxtiojls.oslpoklbms.lbmy.mjil.tl.opl.opljalmjstuqtjmjil.admpok,
mslwoptls.tliamjilmjsaleo smqmsklojplrtsstuyloiomjlyalwhe.lwautlapmahyc

Sawldokls.mjnmjicl utytjsdklmslaeehuutplsal.mwls.osl.tlbmy.tpl.tlboy
ymen;ls.tjl.tleahdplysokl.awtlruawlye.aadcl.tutlboylolqoihtl ayymxmdmskc
.tleojqoyytpl.mylykystwclJalomdwtjslboylrahjp,lojpl.tlmjqtysmiostp
oiomjclS.mylsmwtl.tls.ahi.sl.tleahdplptstesleadmenklykw sawy,lojpl.t
xtiojlsaltjeahuoitls.twlbms.leajymptuoxdtl.a tclXhsls.tklyaajliutb
rttxdt,lojpl utytjsdklpmtplb.addklobokcl.tlutrdtestplrhus.tuclYhpptjdk
.tlpmyeaqtutplyawts.mjiclAjtlarl.mylh  tulruajslstts.lboyldaaytclS.my
boyldhenk;l.tlboyloxahslsalxtimjlsaliuaoj,loylol“ysoustu,”loyl.t
eoddtplms,lb.tjlmslaeehuutplsal.mwls.oslmrl.tleowtlmjsaleahuslbms.ls.os
ouihwtjs,l.mylohjslbahdpl hddlmslahs,lojpls.oslbahdpl.husclYal.tls.ahi.s
.tlbahdpl.adpls.tlsaas.lmjlutytuqtlrauls.tl utytjs,lojplyttnlrhus.tuc
Jas.mjilarrtutplraulyawtldmssdtlsmwt,lojpls.tjl.tlutwtwxtutpl.toumji
s.tlpaesaulstddloxahsloletusomjls.mjils.osldomplh lol osmtjslraulsbalau
s.uttlbttnylojpls.utostjtplsalwontl.mwldaytlolrmjituclYals.tlxakltoitudk
putbl.mylyautlsatlruawlhjptuls.tly.ttslojpl.tdplmslh lraulmjy tesmajc
Xhsljabl.tlpmpljaslnjabls.tljtetyyouklykw sawycl.abtqtu,lmslyttwtp
btddlbaus.lb.mdtlsale.ojetlms,lyal.tlrtddlsaliuaojmjilbms.leajymptuoxdt
y mumsc

XhslYmplydt slajlhjeajyemahyc

Sawliuaojtpldahptu,lojplrojemtpls.osl.tlxtiojlsalrttdl omjlmjls.tlsatc

JalutyhdslruawlYmpc

Sawlboyl ojsmjilbms.l.myltztusmajylxkls.mylsmwtcl.tlsaanlolutyslojpls.tj
ybtddtpl.mwytdrlh lojplrtse.tplolyheetyymajlarlopwmuoxdtliuaojyc

Ymplyjautplajc

Sawlboyloiiuoqostpcl.tlyomp,l“Ymp,lYmp!”lojply.aanl.mwclS.myleahuyt
bauntplbtdd,lojplSawlxtiojlsaliuaojloiomjclYmplkobjtp,lysutse.tp,ls.tj
xuahi.sl.mwytdrlh lajl.myltdxablbms.lolyjaus,lojplxtiojlsalysoutloslSawc
SawlbtjslajliuaojmjiclYmplyomp:

“Saw!lYok,lSaw!”l[Jaluty ajytc]l“.tut,lSaw!lSAW!lB.oslmyls.tlwosstu,
Saw?”lOjpl.tly.aanl.mwlojpldaantplmjl.mylroetlojzmahydkc

Sawlwaojtplahs:

“A.,lpaj's,lYmpclPaj'slvaiidtlwtc”

“B.k,lb.os'yls.tlwosstu,lSaw?lMlwhysleoddlohjsmtc”

“Ja--jtqtulwmjpclMs'ddlxtlaqtulxklojplxk,lwokxtclPaj'sleoddlojkxapkc”

“XhslMlwhys!l_Paj's_liuaojlya,lSaw,lms'ylobrhdcl.abldajilkahlxttjls.my
bok?”

“.ahuyclAhe.!lA.,lpaj'slysmulya,lYmp,lkah'ddlnmddlwtc”

“Saw,lb.klpmpj'slkahlbontlwtlyaajtu?lA.,lSaw,l_paj's!_lMslwontylwklrdty.
euobdlsal.toulkahclSaw,lb.oslmyls.tlwosstu?”

“Mlrauimqtlkahltqtuks.mji,lYmpcl[Iuaojc]lTqtuks.mjilkah'qtltqtulpajtlsa
wtclB.tjlM'wliajt--”

“A.,lSaw,lkahlomj'slpkmji,loutlkah?lPaj's,lSaw--a.,lpaj'sclWokxt--”

“Mlrauimqtltqtukxapk,lYmpcl[Iuaojc]lStddl'twlya,lYmpclOjplYmp,lkahlimqt
wklbmjpab-yoy.lojplwkleoslbms.lajtltktlsals.osljtblimudls.os'yleawtlsa
sabj,lojplstddl.tu--”

XhslYmpl.oplyjose.tpl.myledas.tylojpliajtclSawlboylyhrrtumjilmjlutodmsk,
jab,lyal.ojpyawtdklboyl.mylmwoimjosmajlbaunmji,lojplyal.myliuaojyl.op
ios.tutplghmstlolitjhmjtlsajtc

Ymplrdtblpabjysomuylojplyomp:

“A.,lOhjsl addk,leawt!lSaw'ylpkmji!”

“Pkmji!”

“Kty'wclPaj'slboms--eawtlghmen!”

“Uhxxoit!lMlpaj'slxtdmtqtlms!”

Xhsly.tlrdtplh ysomuy,ljtqtus.tdtyy,lbms.lYmplojplWouklosl.tul.ttdyc
Ojpl.tulroetliutblb.mst,lsaa,lojpl.tuldm lsutwxdtpclB.tjly.tlutoe.tpls.t
xtpymptly.tlioy tplahs:

“Kah,lSaw!lSaw,lb.os'yls.tlwosstulbms.lkah?”

“A.,lohjsmt,lM'w--”

“B.os'yls.tlwosstulbms.lkah--b.oslmyls.tlwosstulbms.lkah,le.mdp?”

“A.,lohjsmt,lwklyautlsat'ylwausmrmtp!”

S.tladpldopklyojnlpabjlmjsalole.omulojpldohi.tploldmssdt,ls.tjleumtplo
dmssdt,ls.tjlpmplxas.lsaits.tuclS.mylutysautpl.tulojply.tlyomp:

“Saw,lb.oslolshujlkahlpmplimqtlwtclJablkahly.hslh ls.osljajytjytlojp
edmwxlahslarls.myc”

S.tliuaojyletoytplojpls.tl omjlqojmy.tplruawls.tlsatclS.tlxaklrtdslo
dmssdtlraadmy.,lojpl.tlyomp:

“Ohjsl addk,lmsl_yttwtp_lwausmrmtp,lojplmsl.huslyalMljtqtulwmjptplwk
saas.losloddc”

“Kahulsaas.,lmjpttp!lB.os'yls.tlwosstulbms.lkahulsaas.?”

“Ajtlarls.tw'yldaayt,lojplmsloe.tyl turtesdklobrhdc”

“S.tut,ls.tut,ljab,lpaj'slxtimjls.osliuaojmjiloiomjclA tjlkahulwahs.c
Btdd--kahulsaas.l_my_ldaayt,lxhslkah'utljasliamjilsalpmtloxahsls.osc
Wouk,litslwtlolymdnls.utop,lojplole.hjnlarlrmutlahslarls.tlnmse.tjc”

Sawlyomp:

“A.,l dtoyt,lohjsmt,lpaj'sl hddlmslahsclMslpaj'sl.huslojklwautclMlbmy.
Mlwokljtqtulysmulmrlmslpatycl dtoytlpaj's,lohjsmtclMlpaj'slbojslsalysok
.awtlruawlye.aadc”

“A.,lkahlpaj's,lpaj'slkah?lYaloddls.myluablboylxteohytlkahls.ahi.slkah'p
itslsalysokl.awtlruawlye.aadlojplialo-rmy.mji?lSaw,lSaw,lMldaqtlkahlya,
ojplkahlyttwlsalsukltqtuklboklkahleojlsalxutonlwkladpl.touslbms.lkahu
ahsuoitahyjtyyc”lXkls.mylsmwtls.tlptjsodlmjysuhwtjsylbtutlutopkclS.tladp
dopklwoptlajtltjplarls.tlymdnls.utoplroyslsalSaw'ylsaas.lbms.loldaa 
ojplsmtpls.tlas.tulsals.tlxtp aysclS.tjly.tlytmftpls.tle.hjnlarlrmutlojp
yhpptjdkls.uhyslmslodwayslmjsals.tlxak'ylroetclS.tlsaas.l.hjilpojidmji
xkls.tlxtp ays,ljabc

Xhsloddlsumodylxumjils.tmuleaw tjyosmajyclOylSawlbtjptplsalye.aadlorstu
xutonroys,l.tlboyls.tltjqklarltqtuklxakl.tlwtslxteohytls.tlio lmjl.my
h  tuluablarlstts.ltjoxdtpl.mwlsaltz tesauostlmjloljtblojplopwmuoxdt
bokcl.tlios.tutplghmstlolraddabmjilarldopylmjstutystplmjls.tltz.mxmsmaj;
ojplajtls.osl.oplehsl.mylrmjitulojpl.oplxttjloletjsutlarlroyemjosmajlojp
.awoitlh lsals.mylsmwt,ljablrahjpl.mwytdrlyhpptjdklbms.ahslojlop.tutjs,
ojply.aujlarl.mylidaukcl.myl.touslboyl.toqk,lojpl.tlyomplbms.lolpmypomj
b.me.l.tlpmpljaslrttdls.oslmslboyj'slojks.mjilsaly msldmntlSawlYobktu;
xhslojas.tulxaklyomp,l“Yahuliuo ty!”lojpl.tlbojptutploboklolpmywojsdtp
.tuac

Y.ausdklSawleowtlh ajls.tlvhqtjmdtl oumo.larls.tlqmddoit,l.hendtxtuuk
Rmjj,lyajlarls.tlsabjlpuhjnoupcl.hendtxtuuklboyleaupmoddkl.ostplojp
putoptplxkloddls.tlwas.tuylarls.tlsabj,lxteohytl.tlboylmpdtlojpldobdtyy
ojplqhdioulojplxop--ojplxteohytloddls.tmule.mdputjlopwmutpl.mwlya,lojp
ptdmi.stplmjl.mylrauxmpptjlyaemtsk,lojplbmy.tpls.tklpoutplsalxtldmnt
.mwclSawlboyldmntls.tlutyslarls.tluty tesoxdtlxaky,lmjls.osl.tltjqmtp
.hendtxtuukl.myliohpklahseoysleajpmsmaj,lojplboylhjptulysumeslauptuy
jaslsal doklbms.l.mwclYal.tl doktplbms.l.mwltqtuklsmwtl.tliaslole.ojetc
.hendtxtuuklboylodbokylputyytplmjls.tleoys-arrledas.tylarlrhdd-iuabj
wtj,lojpls.tklbtutlmjl tutjjmodlxdaawlojplrdhsstumjilbms.luoiycl.myl.os
boylolqoysluhmjlbms.lolbmptleutyetjslda  tplahslarlmsylxumw;l.myleaos,
b.tjl.tlbautlajt,l.hjiljtoudklsal.myl.ttdylojpl.opls.tlutoubouplxhssajy
roulpabjls.tlxoen;lxhslajtlyhy tjptulyh  austpl.mylsuahytuy;ls.tlytoslar
s.tlsuahytuylxoiitpldablojpleajsomjtpljas.mji,ls.tlrumjitpldtiylpuoiitp
mjls.tlpmuslb.tjljasluaddtplh c

.hendtxtuukleowtlojplbtjs,losl.mylabjlruttlbmddcl.tlydt slajlpaauyst y
mjlrmjtlbtos.tulojplmjltw skl.aiy.topylmjlbts;l.tlpmpljasl.oqtlsalialsa
ye.aadlaulsale.hue.,lauleoddlojklxtmjilwoystulaulaxtklojkxapk;l.tleahdp
ialrmy.mjilaulybmwwmjilb.tjlojplb.tutl.tle.ayt,lojplysokloyldajiloylms
yhmstpl.mw;ljaxapklrauxoptl.mwlsalrmi.s;l.tleahdplymslh loyldostloyl.t
 dtoytp;l.tlboylodbokyls.tlrmuyslxakls.oslbtjslxoutraaslmjls.tly umji
ojpls.tldoyslsalutyhwtldtos.tulmjls.tlrodd;l.tljtqtul.oplsalboy.,ljau
 hslajledtojledas.ty;l.tleahdplybtoulbajpturhddkclMjlolbaup,ltqtuks.mji
s.osliatylsalwontldmrtl utemahyls.oslxakl.opclYals.ahi.sltqtukl.ouoyytp,
.ow tutp,luty tesoxdtlxaklmjlYscl tstuyxhuic

Sawl.omdtpls.tluawojsmelahseoys:

“.tdda,l.hendtxtuuk!”

“.tddalkahuytdr,lojplyttl.ablkahldmntlmsc”

“B.os'yls.oslkahlias?”

“Ptopleosc”

“Dtwwtlyttl.mw,l.henclWk,l.t'yl utssklysmrrclB.tut'plkahlitsl.mw?”

“Xahi.sl.mwlarr'jlolxakc”

“B.oslpmplkahlimqt?”

“Mlimqtlolxdhtlsmentslojplolxdopptuls.oslMliaslosls.tlydohi.stu-.ahytc”

“B.tut'plkahlitsls.tlxdhtlsments?”

“Xahi.slmslarr'jlXtjlUaituylsbalbttnyloialraulol.aa -ysmenc”

“Yok--b.oslmylptopleosyliaaplrau,l.hen?”

“Iaaplrau?lEhutlbousylbms.c”

“Ja!lMyls.oslya?lMlnjablyawts.mjils.os'ylxtsstuc”

“Mlxtslkahlpaj'sclB.oslmylms?”

“B.k,ly hjn-bostuc”

“Y hjn-bostu!lMlbahdpj'slimqtlolptujlrauly hjn-bostuc”

“Kahlbahdpj's,lbahdpj'slkah?lP'kahltqtulsuklms?”

“Ja,lMl.omj'sclXhslXaxlSojjtulpmpc”

“B.alsadplkahlya!”

“B.k,l.tlsadplVtrrlS.ose.tu,lojplVtrrlsadplVa.jjklXontu,lojplVa.jjk
sadplVmwl.addmy,lojplVmwlsadplXtjlUaituy,lojplXtjlsadploljmiitu,lojpls.t
jmiitulsadplwtclS.tutljab!”

“Btdd,lb.oslarlms?lS.tk'ddloddldmtclDtoysbokyloddlxhsls.tljmiituclM
paj'slnjabl_.mw_clXhslMljtqtulyttloljmiituls.osl_bahdpj's_ldmtclY.heny!
Jablkahlstddlwtl.ablXaxlSojjtulpajtlms,l.henc”

“B.k,l.tlsaanlojplpm  tpl.myl.ojplmjloluasstjlyshw lb.tutls.tluomj-bostu
boyc”

“Mjls.tlpoksmwt?”

“Etusomjdkc”

“Bms.l.mylroetlsals.tlyshw ?”

“KtyclDtoyslMlutenajlyac”

“Pmpl.tlyoklojks.mji?”

“Mlpaj'slutenajl.tlpmpclMlpaj'slnjabc”

“O.o!lSodnloxahslsukmjilsalehutlbousylbms.ly hjn-bostulyhe.lolxdowtlraad
bokloyls.os!lB.k,ls.oslomj'slo-iamjilsalpalojkliaapclKahliaslsalialodd
xklkahuytdr,lsals.tlwmppdtlarls.tlbaapy,lb.tutlkahlnjabls.tut'ylo
y hjn-bostulyshw ,lojplvhysloylms'ylwmpjmi.slkahlxoenlh loiomjysls.tlyshw 
ojplvowlkahul.ojplmjlojplyok:

'Xoudtk-eauj,lxoudtk-eauj,lmjvhj-wtodly.ausy,lY hjn-bostu,ly hjn-bostu,
yboddtuls.tytlbousy,'

ojpls.tjlbodnloboklghmen,ltdtqtjlyst y,lbms.lkahultktyly.hs,lojpls.tj
shujlouahjpls.uttlsmwtylojplbodnl.awtlbms.ahsly tonmjilsalojkxapkc
Xteohytlmrlkahly tonls.tle.ouw'ylxhystpc”

“Btdd,ls.oslyahjpyldmntloliaaplbok;lxhsls.oslomj'sls.tlboklXaxlSojjtu
pajtc”

“Ja,lymu,lkahleojlxtsl.tlpmpj's,lxtehfl.t'yls.tlbousmtyslxaklmjls.my
sabj;lojpl.tlbahdpj'sl.oqtlolbouslajl.mwlmrl.t'plnjabtpl.ablsalbaun
y hjn-bostuclM'qtlsaanlarrls.ahyojpylarlbousylarrlarlwkl.ojpyls.oslbok,
.henclMl doklbms.lruaiylyalwhe.ls.oslM'qtlodbokyliasleajymptuoxdtlwojk
bousyclYawtsmwtylMlsontl'twlarrlbms.lolxtojc”

“Kty,lxtoj'yliaapclM'qtlpajtls.osc”

“.oqtlkah?lB.os'ylkahulbok?”

“Kahlsontlojply dmsls.tlxtoj,lojplehsls.tlbouslyaloylsalitslyawtlxdaap,
ojpls.tjlkahl hsls.tlxdaaplajlajtl mtetlarls.tlxtojlojplsontlojplpmi
ol.adtlojplxhuklmsl'xahslwmpjmi.slosls.tleuayyuaopylmjls.tlpounlarls.t
waaj,lojpls.tjlkahlxhujlh ls.tlutyslarls.tlxtojclKahlyttls.osl mtet
s.os'yliasls.tlxdaaplajlmslbmddlntt lpuobmjilojplpuobmji,lsukmjilsa
rtse.ls.tlas.tul mtetlsalms,lojplyals.osl.td yls.tlxdaaplsalpuobls.t
bous,lojpl utssklyaajlarrly.tleawtyc”

“Kty,ls.os'ylms,l.hen--s.os'ylms;ls.ahi.lb.tjlkah'utlxhukmjilmslmrlkah
yokl'Pabjlxtoj;larrlbous;leawtljalwautlsalxas.tulwt!'lms'ylxtsstuc
S.os'yls.tlboklVatl.ou tulpaty,lojpl.t'ylxttjljtoudklsalEaajqmddtlojp
waysltqtukb.tutyclXhslyok--.ablpalkahlehutl'twlbms.lptopleosy?”

“B.k,lkahlsontlkahuleoslojplialojplitslmjls.tliuoqt-koupl'dajiloxahs
wmpjmi.slb.tjlyawtxapkls.oslboylbmentpl.oylxttjlxhumtp;lojplb.tjlms'y
wmpjmi.slolptqmdlbmddleawt,laulwokxtlsbalauls.utt,lxhslkahleoj'slytt
'tw,lkahleojlajdkl.toulyawts.mjildmntls.tlbmjp,laulwokxtl.toul'twlsodn;
ojplb.tjls.tk'utlsonmjils.oslrtddtulobok,lkahl.toqtlkahuleoslorstul'tw
ojplyok,l'Ptqmdlraddableau yt,leoslraddablptqmd,lbousylraddableos,lM'w
pajtlbms.lkt!'lS.os'ddlrtse.l_ojk_lbousc”

“Yahjpylumi.sclP'kahltqtulsuklms,l.hen?”

“Ja,lxhsladplWas.tul.a nmjylsadplwtc”

“Btdd,lMlutenajlms'ylya,ls.tjclXtehfls.tklyokly.t'ylolbmse.c”

“Yok!lB.k,lSaw,lMl_njab_ly.tlmyclY.tlbmse.tpl o cl o lyokylyal.mylabj
ytdrcl.tleawtlodajilajtlpok,lojpl.tlyttly.tlboylo-bmse.mjil.mw,lyal.t
saanlh loluaen,lojplmrly.tl.opj'slpapitp,l.t'ploliasl.tuclBtdd,ls.os
qtukljmi.sl.tluaddtplarr'jloly.tplb.tu'l.tlboyloldokmjlpuhjn,lojplxuant
.mylouwc”

“B.k,ls.os'ylobrhdcl.ablpmpl.tlnjably.tlboylo-bmse.mjil.mw?”

“Daup,l o leojlstdd,ltoykcl o lyokylb.tjls.tklntt ldaanmjiloslkahlumi.s
ysmppk,ls.tk'utlo-bmse.mjilkahclY temoddklmrls.tklwhwxdtclXtehflb.tj
s.tklwhwxdtls.tk'utlyokmjils.tlDaup'yl uoktulxoenoupyc”

“Yok,l.henk,lb.tjlkahliamjilsalsukls.tleos?”

“Sa-jmi.sclMlutenajls.tk'ddleawtlorstuladpl.ayylBmddmowylsa-jmi.sc”

“Xhsls.tklxhumtpl.mwlYoshupokclPmpj'sls.tklitsl.mwlYoshupokljmi.s?”

“B.k,l.ablkahlsodn!l.ableahdpls.tmule.ouwylbaunlsmddlwmpjmi.s?--ojp
_s.tj_lms'ylYhjpokclPtqmdylpaj'slyday.louahjplwhe.larlolYhjpok,lMlpaj's
utenajc”

“Mljtqtuls.ahi.slarls.osclS.os'ylyaclDtwwtlialbms.lkah?”

“Arleahuyt--mrlkahlomj'slortoupc”

“Ortoup!l'Somj'sldmntdkclBmddlkahlwtab?”

“Kty--ojplkahlwtablxoen,lmrlkahlitslole.ojetclDoyslsmwt,lkahlnt 'lwt
o-wtabmjilouahjplsmddladpl.okylbtjslsals.uabmjiluaenyloslwtlojplyoky
'Ptujls.osleos!'lojplyalMl.aqtlolxumenls.uahi.l.mylbmjpab--xhslpaj'slkah
stddc”

“Mlbaj'sclMleahdpj'slwtabls.osljmi.s,lxtehflohjsmtlboylbose.mjilwt,lxhs
M'ddlwtabls.mylsmwtclYok--b.os'yls.os?”

“Jas.mjilxhslolsmenc”

“B.tut'plkahlitsl.mw?”

“Ahslmjls.tlbaapyc”

“B.os'ddlkahlsontlraul.mw?”

“Mlpaj'slnjabclMlpaj'slbojslsalytddl.mwc”

“Oddlumi.sclMs'ylolwmi.sklywoddlsmen,lojkbokc”

“A.,lojkxapkleojluhjlolsmenlpabjls.oslpaj'slxtdajilsals.twclM'w
yosmyrmtplbms.lmsclMs'yloliaapltjahi.lsmenlraulwtc”

“Y.a,ls.tut'ylsmenylol dtjskclMleahdpl.oqtlols.ahyojplarl'twlmrlMlbojstp
sac”

“Btdd,lb.klpaj'slkah?lXtehflkahlnjablwmi.sklbtddlkahleoj'sclS.mylmylo
 utsskltoudklsmen,lMlutenajclMs'yls.tlrmuyslajtlM'qtlyttjls.mylktouc”

“Yok,l.hen--M'ddlimqtlkahlwklsaas.lraul.mwc”

“Dtyylyttlmsc”

Sawliaslahslolxmslarl o tulojpleoutrhddklhjuaddtplmscl.hendtxtuuklqmtbtp
mslbmysrhddkclS.tlstw sosmajlboylqtuklysuajiclOsldoysl.tlyomp:

“Mylmslitjhbkjt?”

Sawldmrstpl.myldm lojply.abtpls.tlqoeojekc

“Btdd,loddlumi.s,”lyompl.hendtxtuuk,l“ms'ylolsuoptc”

Sawltjedaytpls.tlsmenlmjls.tl tuehyymaj-eo lxazls.osl.opldostdklxttjls.t
 mje.xhi'yl umyaj,lojpls.tlxakylyt ouostp,ltoe.lrttdmjilbtods.mtuls.oj
xtrautc

B.tjlSawlutoe.tpls.tldmssdtlmyadostplruowtlye.aad-.ahyt,l.tlysuaptlmj
xumyndk,lbms.ls.tlwojjtularlajtlb.al.opleawtlbms.loddl.ajtysly ttpcl.t
.hjil.myl.oslajlol tilojplrdhjil.mwytdrlmjsal.mylytoslbms.lxhymjtyy-dmnt
odoeumskclS.tlwoystu,ls.uajtplajl.mi.lmjl.myliutosly dmjs-xassaw
ouw-e.omu,lboylpafmji,ldhddtplxkls.tlpuabykl.hwlarlyshpkclS.t
mjstuuh smajluahytpl.mwc

“S.awoylYobktu!”

Sawlnjtbls.oslb.tjl.myljowtlboyl uajahjetplmjlrhdd,lmslwtojslsuahxdtc

“Ymu!”

“Eawtlh l.tutclJab,lymu,lb.kloutlkahldostloiomj,loylhyhod?”

Sawlboyloxahslsalsontlutrhitlmjloldmt,lb.tjl.tlyoblsbaldajilsomdylar
ktddabl.omul.ojimjilpabjlolxoenls.osl.tluteaijmftplxkls.tltdtesume
ykw os.klarldaqt;lojplxkls.oslrauwlboyl_s.tlajdklqoeojsl doet_lajls.t
imudy'lymptlarls.tlye.aad-.ahytcl.tlmjysojsdklyomp:

“_Mlysa  tplsalsodnlbms.l.hendtxtuuklRmjj!_”

S.tlwoystu'yl hdytlysaaplysmdd,lojpl.tlysoutpl.td dtyydkclS.tlxhfflar
yshpkletoytpclS.tl h mdylbajptutplmrls.mylraad.oupklxakl.opldaysl.my
wmjpclS.tlwoystulyomp:

“Kah--kahlpmplb.os?”

“Ysa  tplsalsodnlbms.l.hendtxtuuklRmjjc”

S.tutlboyljalwmysonmjils.tlbaupyc

“S.awoylYobktu,ls.mylmyls.tlwaysloysahjpmjileajrtyymajlMl.oqtltqtu
dmystjtplsaclJalwtutlrtuhdtlbmddlojybtulrauls.mylarrtjetclSontlarrlkahu
voentsc”

S.tlwoystu'ylouwl turauwtplhjsmdlmslboylsmutplojpls.tlysaenlarlybmse.ty
jasoxdklpmwmjmy.tpclS.tjls.tlauptulraddabtp:

“Jab,lymu,lialojplymslbms.ls.tlimudy!lOjpldtsls.mylxtlolboujmjilsalkahc”

S.tlsmsstuls.oslum  dtplouahjpls.tluaawlo  toutplsaloxoy.ls.tlxak,lxhs
mjlutodmskls.oslutyhdslboyleohytpluos.tulwautlxkl.mylbauy.m rhdlobt
arl.mylhjnjabjlmpadlojpls.tlputopl dtoyhutls.osldoklmjl.myl.mi.liaap
raushjtcl.tlyoslpabjlh ajls.tltjplarls.tl mjtlxtje.lojpls.tlimudl.mse.tp
.tuytdrloboklruawl.mwlbms.lolsayylarl.tul.topclJhpitylojplbmjnylojp
b.my tuylsuoqtuytpls.tluaaw,lxhslSawlyoslysmdd,lbms.l.mylouwylh ajls.t
daji,ldablptynlxtrautl.mw,lojplyttwtplsalyshpkl.mylxaanc

Xklojplxklosstjsmajletoytplruawl.mw,lojpls.tloeehysawtplye.aadlwhuwhu
uaytlh ajls.tlphddlomulajetlwautcl utytjsdkls.tlxaklxtiojlsalystod
rhusmqtlidojetylosls.tlimudclY.tlaxytuqtplms,l“woptlolwahs.”losl.mw
ojplioqtl.mwls.tlxoenlarl.tul.toplrauls.tly oetlarlolwmjhstclB.tjly.t
eohsmahydklroetplouahjploiomj,lol toe.ldoklxtrautl.tuclY.tls.uhyslms
obokclSawlitjsdkl hslmslxoenclY.tls.uhyslmslobokloiomj,lxhslbms.ldtyy
ojmwaymskclSawl osmtjsdklutshujtplmslsalmsyl doetclS.tjly.tldtslms
utwomjclSawlyeuobdtplajl.mylydost,l“ dtoytlsontlms--Mliaslwautc”lS.t
imudlidojetplosls.tlbaupy,lxhslwoptljalymijclJabls.tlxaklxtiojlsalpuob
yawts.mjilajls.tlydost,l.mpmjil.mylbaunlbms.l.myldtrsl.ojpclRaulolsmwt
s.tlimudlutrhytplsaljasmet;lxhsl.tul.hwojlehumaymskl utytjsdklxtioj
salwojmrtyslmsytdrlxkl.oupdkl tuet smxdtlymijyclS.tlxaklbauntplaj,
o  outjsdklhjeajyemahyclS.tlimudlwoptlolyauslarljaj-eawwmssodlosstw s
salytt,lxhsls.tlxaklpmpljaslxtsuokls.osl.tlboyloboutlarlmsclOsldoysly.t
ioqtlmjlojpl.tymsosmjidklb.my tutp:

“Dtslwtlyttlmsc”

Sawl ousdklhjeaqtutplolpmywodleoumeoshutlarlol.ahytlbms.lsbalioxdtltjpy
salmslojploleaunyeutblarlywantlmyyhmjilruawls.tle.mwjtkclS.tjls.tlimud'y
mjstutyslxtiojlsalroystjlmsytdrlh ajls.tlbaunlojply.tlrauiasltqtuks.mji
tdytclB.tjlmslboylrmjmy.tp,ly.tlioftplolwawtjs,ls.tjlb.my tutp:

“Ms'yljmet--wontlolwojc”

S.tlousmysltutestplolwojlmjls.tlruajslkoup,ls.oslutytwxdtplolptuumencl.t
eahdpl.oqtlyst  tplaqtuls.tl.ahyt;lxhsls.tlimudlboyljasl.k tueumsmeod;
y.tlboylyosmyrmtplbms.ls.tlwajystu,lojplb.my tutp:

“Ms'ylolxtohsmrhdlwoj--jablwontlwtleawmjilodajic”

Sawlputblojl.ahu-idoyylbms.lolrhddlwaajlojplysuobldmwxylsalmslojplouwtp
s.tly utopmjilrmjituylbms.lol austjsahylrojclS.tlimudlyomp:

“Ms'yltqtulyaljmet--Mlbmy.lMleahdplpuobc”

“Ms'yltoyk,”lb.my tutplSaw,l“M'ddldtoujlkahc”

“A.,lbmddlkah?lB.tj?”

“OsljaajclPalkahlial.awtlsalpmjjtu?”

“M'ddlysoklmrlkahlbmddc”

“Iaap--s.os'ylolb.oenclB.os'ylkahuljowt?”

“XtenklS.ose.tuclB.os'ylkahuy?lA.,lMlnjabclMs'ylS.awoylYobktuc”

“S.os'yls.tljowtls.tkldmenlwtlxkclM'wlSawlb.tjlM'wliaapclKahleoddlwt
Saw,lbmddlkah?”

“Ktyc”

JablSawlxtiojlsalyeuobdlyawts.mjilajls.tlydost,l.mpmjils.tlbaupylruaw
s.tlimudclXhsly.tlboyljaslxoenboupls.mylsmwtclY.tlxtiitplsalyttclSaw
yomp:

“A.,lmslomj'slojks.mjic”

“Ktylmslmyc”

“Jalmslomj'sclKahlpaj'slbojslsalyttc”

“KtylMlpa,lmjpttplMlpacl dtoytldtslwtc”

“Kah'ddlstddc”

“JalMlbaj's--pttplojplpttplojplpahxdtlpttplbaj'sc”

“Kahlbaj'slstddlojkxapkloslodd?lTqtu,loyldajiloylkahldmqt?”

“Ja,lMlbaj'sltqtulstddl_ojk_xapkclJabldtslwtc”

“A.,l_kah_lpaj'slbojslsalytt!”

“Jabls.oslkahlsutoslwtlya,lMl_bmdd_lyttc”lOjply.tl hsl.tulywoddl.ojp
h ajl.mylojploldmssdtlyehrrdtltjyhtp,lSawl utstjpmjilsalutymyslmj
toujtyslxhsldtssmjil.myl.ojplydm lxklptiuttylsmddls.tytlbaupylbtut
utqtodtp:l“_Mldaqtlkah_c”

“A.,lkahlxopls.mji!”lOjply.tl.msl.myl.ojplolywousluo ,lxhslutpptjtplojp
daantpl dtoytp,ljtqtus.tdtyyc

Vhyslosls.mylvhjeshutls.tlxaklrtdslolydab,lrostrhdlium ledaymjilajl.my
tou,lojplolystopkldmrsmjilmw hdytclMjls.oslbmytl.tlboylxaujtloeuayyls.t
.ahytlojplpt aymstplmjl.mylabjlytos,lhjptulol t  tumjilrmutlarlimiidty
ruawls.tlb.adtlye.aadclS.tjls.tlwoystulysaaplaqtul.mwlphumjilolrtblobrhd
wawtjsy,lojplrmjoddklwaqtploboklsal.myls.uajtlbms.ahslyokmjilolbaupclXhs
ods.ahi.lSaw'yltoulsmjidtp,l.myl.touslboylvhxmdojsc

Oyls.tlye.aadlghmtstplpabjlSawlwoptlojl.ajtysltrrauslsalyshpk,lxhs
s.tlshuwamdlbms.mjl.mwlboylsaaliutosclMjlshujl.tlsaanl.myl doetlmjls.t
utopmjiledoyylojplwoptlolxase.larlms;ls.tjlmjls.tlitaiuo .kledoyylojp
shujtpldontylmjsalwahjsomjy,lwahjsomjylmjsalumqtuy,lojplumqtuylmjsa
eajsmjtjsy,lsmddle.oaylboyleawtloiomj;ls.tjlmjls.tly tddmjiledoyy,lojp
iasl“shujtplpabj,”lxklolyheetyymajlarlwtutlxoxklbaupy,lsmddl.tlxuahi.s
h losls.tlraaslojplkmtdptplh ls.tl tbstulwtpodlb.me.l.tl.oplbaujlbms.
aystjsosmajlraulwajs.yc




E.O STUlQMM

S.Tl.ouptulSawlsumtplsalroystjl.mylwmjplajl.mylxaan,ls.tlwautl.mylmptoy
bojptutpclYalosldoys,lbms.lolymi.lojplolkobj,l.tlioqtlmslh clMslyttwtp
sal.mwls.osls.tljaajlutetyylbahdpljtqtuleawtclS.tlomulboylhsstudklptopc
S.tutlboyljaslolxutos.lysmuumjiclMslboyls.tlydtt mtyslarlydtt klpokyc
S.tlpuabymjilwhuwhularls.tlrmqtlojplsbtjsklyshpkmjilye.adouylyaas.tp
s.tlyahdldmntls.tly tddls.oslmylmjls.tlwhuwhularlxttyclOboklarrlmjls.t
rdowmjilyhjy.mjt,lEoupmrrl.mddldmrstplmsylyarsliuttjlymptyls.uahi.lo
y.mwwtumjilqtmdlarl.tos,lsmjstplbms.ls.tl hu dtlarlpmysojet;lolrtblxmupy
rdaostplajldofklbmjil.mi.lmjls.tlomu;ljalas.tuldmqmjils.mjilboylqmymxdt
xhslyawtleaby,lojpls.tklbtutloydtt clSaw'yl.tousloe.tplsalxtlrutt,lau
tdytlsal.oqtlyawts.mjilarlmjstutyslsalpalsal oyyls.tlputouklsmwtc
.myl.ojplbojptutplmjsal.myl aentslojpl.mylroetldmslh lbms.lolidablar
iuosmshptls.oslboyl uoktu,ls.ahi.l.tlpmpljaslnjablmsclS.tjlrhusmqtdk
s.tl tuehyymaj-eo lxazleowtlahscl.tlutdtoytpls.tlsmenlojpl hsl.mwlaj
s.tldajilrdoslptynclS.tleutoshutl uaxoxdklidabtplbms.loliuosmshptls.os
owahjstplsal uoktu,lsaa,losls.mylwawtjs,lxhslmslboyl utwoshut:lraulb.tj
.tlysoustpls.ojnrhddklsalsuoqtdlarr,lSawlshujtpl.mwloymptlbms.lol mjlojp
woptl.mwlsontloljtblpmutesmajc

Saw'ylxayawlrumtjplyosljtzsl.mw,lyhrrtumjilvhysloylSawl.oplxttj,lojp
jabl.tlboylptt dklojpliuostrhddklmjstutystplmjls.myltjstusomjwtjslmj
ojlmjysojsclS.mylxayawlrumtjplboylVatl.ou tuclS.tlsbalxakylbtutlybauj
rumtjpyloddls.tlbttn,lojpltwxossdtpltjtwmtylajlYoshupokyclVatlsaanlo
 mjlahslarl.myldo tdlojplxtiojlsaloyymyslmjltztuemymjils.tl umyajtuc
S.tly ausliutblmjlmjstutyslwawtjsdkclYaajlSawlyompls.osls.tklbtut
mjsturtumjilbms.ltoe.las.tu,lojpljtms.tulitssmjils.tlrhddtyslxtjtrms
arls.tlsmenclYal.tl hslVat'ylydostlajls.tlptynlojplputbloldmjtlpabjls.t
wmppdtlarlmslruawlsa lsalxassawc

“Jab,”lyompl.t,l“oyldajiloyl.tlmylajlkahulymptlkahleojlysmul.mwlh lojp
M'ddldtsl.mwlodajt;lxhslmrlkahldtsl.mwlitsloboklojplitslajlwklympt,
kah'utlsaldtoqtl.mwlodajtloyldajiloylMleojlntt l.mwlruawleuayymjilaqtuc”

“Oddlumi.s,lialo.top;lysousl.mwlh c”

S.tlsmenltyeo tplruawlSaw,l utytjsdk,lojpleuayytpls.tltghosauclVat
.ouoyytpl.mwlob.mdt,lojpls.tjl.tliasloboklojpleuayytplxoenloiomjclS.my
e.ojitlarlxoytlaeehuutplarstjclB.mdtlajtlxaklboylbauukmjils.tlsmenlbms.
oxyauxmjilmjstutys,ls.tlas.tulbahdpldaanlajlbms.lmjstutysloylysuaji,ls.t
sbal.topylxabtplsaits.tulaqtuls.tlydost,lojpls.tlsbalyahdylptoplsalodd
s.mjiyltdytclOsldoysldhenlyttwtplsalytssdtlojploxmptlbms.lVatclS.t
smenlsumtpls.my,ls.os,lojpls.tlas.tuleahuyt,lojpliasloyltzemstplojploy
ojzmahyloyls.tlxakyls.twytdqty,lxhslsmwtlojploiomjlvhysloyl.tlbahdp
.oqtlqmesauklmjl.mylqtukliuoy ,lyalsaly ton,lojplSaw'ylrmjituylbahdp
xtlsbmse.mjilsalxtimj,lVat'yl mjlbahdplptrsdkl.topl.mwlarr,lojplntt 
 ayytyymajclOsldoyslSawleahdplysojplmsljaldajituclS.tlstw sosmajlboylsaa
ysuajiclYal.tlutoe.tplahslojpldtjslol.ojplbms.l.myl mjclVatlboylojiuklmj
olwawtjsclYompl.t:

“Saw,lkahldtsl.mwlodajtc”

“Mlajdklvhyslbojslsalysmul.mwlh loldmssdt,lVatc”

“Ja,lymu,lmslomj'slromu;lkahlvhysldtsl.mwlodajtc”

“Xdowtlms,lMlomj'sliamjilsalysmul.mwlwhe.c”

“Dtsl.mwlodajt,lMlstddlkahc”

“Mlbaj's!”

“Kahly.odd--.t'ylajlwklymptlarls.tldmjtc”

“Daanl.tut,lVatl.ou tu,lb.aytlmyls.oslsmen?”

“Mlpaj'sleoutlb.aytlsmenl.tlmy--.t'ylajlwklymptlarls.tldmjt,lojplkah
y.o'j'slsahe.l.mwc”

“Btdd,lM'ddlvhyslxtslMlbmdd,ls.ahi.cl.t'ylwklsmenlojplM'ddlpalb.oslM
xdowtl dtoytlbms.l.mw,laulpmt!”

Olsutwtjpahylb.oenleowtlpabjlajlSaw'yly.ahdptuy,lojplmsylph dmeostlaj
Vat'y;lojplrauls.tly oetlarlsbalwmjhstyls.tlphysleajsmjhtplsalrdklruaw
s.tlsbalvoentsylojpls.tlb.adtlye.aadlsaltjvaklmsclS.tlxakyl.oplxttj
saaloxyauxtplsaljasmetls.tl.hy.ls.osl.oplysadtjlh ajls.tlye.aadlob.mdt
xtrautlb.tjls.tlwoystuleowtlsm satmjilpabjls.tluaawlojplysaaplaqtuls.twc
.tl.opleajstw dostploliaapl ouslarls.tl turauwojetlxtrautl.tleajsumxhstp
.mylxmslarlqoumtsklsalmsc

B.tjlye.aadlxuantlh losljaaj,lSawlrdtblsalXtenklS.ose.tu,lojplb.my tutp
mjl.tultou:

“ hslajlkahulxajjtslojpldtslajlkah'utliamjil.awt;lojplb.tjlkahlitslsa
s.tleaujtu,limqtls.tlutyslarl'twls.tlydm ,lojplshujlpabjls.uahi.ls.t
dojtlojpleawtlxoenclM'ddlials.tlas.tulboklojpleawtlmslaqtul'twls.tlyowt
bokc”

Yals.tlajtlbtjslarrlbms.lajtliuah larlye.adouy,lojpls.tlas.tulbms.
ojas.tuclMjloldmssdtlb.mdtls.tlsbalwtslosls.tlxassawlarls.tldojt,lojp
b.tjls.tklutoe.tpls.tlye.aadls.tkl.oplmsloddlsals.twytdqtyclS.tjls.tk
yoslsaits.tu,lbms.lolydostlxtrautls.tw,lojplSawlioqtlXtenkls.tl tjemd
ojpl.tdpl.tul.ojplmjl.my,lihmpmjilms,lojplyaleutostplojas.tulyhu umymji
.ahytclB.tjls.tlmjstutyslmjlouslxtiojlsalbojt,ls.tlsbalrtddlsalsodnmjic
Sawlboylybmwwmjilmjlxdmyycl.tlyomp:

“Palkahldaqtluosy?”

“Ja!lMl.ostls.tw!”

“Btdd,lMlpa,lsaa--_dmqt_lajtyclXhslMlwtojlptoplajty,lsalybmjiluahjplkahu
.toplbms.lolysumjic”

“Ja,lMlpaj'sleoutlrauluosylwhe.,lojkbokclB.oslMldmntlmyle.tbmji-ihwc”

“A.,lMly.ahdplyoklya!lMlbmy.lMl.oplyawtljabc”

“Palkah?lM'qtliaslyawtclM'ddldtslkahle.tblmslob.mdt,lxhslkahlwhyslimqt
mslxoenlsalwtc”

S.oslboyloiuttoxdt,lyals.tkle.tbtplmslshujloxahs,lojplpojidtpls.tmuldtiy
oiomjysls.tlxtje.lmjltzetyylarleajstjswtjsc

“Boylkahltqtuloslolemuehy?”lyomplSawc

“Kty,lojplwkl o'yliamjilsalsontlwtloiomjlyawtlsmwt,lmrlM'wliaapc”

“Mlxttjlsals.tlemuehyls.uttlaulrahulsmwty--dasylarlsmwtyclE.hue.lomj's
y.henylsalolemuehyclS.tut'yls.mjiyliamjilajloslolemuehyloddls.tlsmwtc
M'wliamjilsalxtloledabjlmjlolemuehylb.tjlMliuablh c”

“A.,loutlkah!lS.oslbmddlxtljmetclS.tk'utlyaldaqtdk,loddly asstplh c”

“Kty,ls.os'ylyaclOjpls.tklitslydos.tuylarlwajtk--wayslolpaddoulolpok,lXtj
UaituylyokyclYok,lXtenk,lboylkahltqtultjioitp?”

“B.os'yls.os?”

“B.k,ltjioitplsalxtlwouumtpc”

“Jac”

“Bahdplkahldmntlsa?”

“MlutenajlyaclMlpaj'slnjabclB.oslmylmsldmnt?”

“Dmnt?lB.klmslomj'sldmntlojks.mjiclKahlajdklvhyslstddlolxaklkahlbaj's
tqtul.oqtlojkxapklxhsl.mw,ltqtultqtultqtu,lojpls.tjlkahlnmyylojpls.os'y
oddclOjkxapkleojlpalmsc”

“Nmyy?lB.oslpalkahlnmyylrau?”

“B.k,ls.os,lkahlnjab,lmylsa--btdd,ls.tklodbokylpals.osc”

“Tqtukxapk?”

“B.k,lkty,ltqtukxapkls.os'ylmjldaqtlbms.ltoe.las.tuclPalkahlutwtwxtu
b.oslMlbuastlajls.tlydost?”

“Kt--ktyc”

“B.oslboylms?”

“Mly.o'j'slstddlkahc”

“Y.oddlMlstddl_kah_?”

“Kt--kty--xhslyawtlas.tulsmwtc”

“Ja,ljabc”

“Ja,ljasljab--sa-wauuabc”

“A.,lja,l_jab_cl dtoyt,lXtenk--M'ddlb.my tulms,lM'ddlb.my tulmsltqtulya
toykc”

Xtenkl.tymsosmji,lSawlsaanlymdtjetlrauleajytjs,lojpl oyytpl.mylouwloxahs
.tulbomyslojplb.my tutpls.tlsodtltqtulyalyarsdk,lbms.l.mylwahs.ledaytlsa
.tultouclOjpls.tjl.tlopptp:

“Jablkahlb.my tulmslsalwt--vhysls.tlyowtc”

Y.tlutymystp,lraulolb.mdt,lojpls.tjlyomp:

“Kahlshujlkahulroetloboklyalkahleoj'slytt,lojpls.tjlMlbmddclXhslkah
whysj'sltqtulstddlojkxapk--_bmdd_lkah,lSaw?lJablkahlbaj's,l_bmdd_lkah?”

“Ja,lmjpttp,lmjpttplMlbaj'sclJab,lXtenkc”

.tlshujtpl.mylroetlobokclY.tlxtjslsmwmpdklouahjplsmddl.tulxutos.lysmuutp
.mylehudylojplb.my tutp,l“M--daqt--kah!”

S.tjly.tly uojiloboklojpluojlouahjplojplouahjpls.tlptynylojplxtje.ty,
bms.lSawlorstul.tu,lojplsaanlutrhitlmjloleaujtulosldoys,lbms.l.tuldmssdt
b.mstlo uajlsal.tulroetclSawledoy tpl.tuloxahsl.tuljtenlojpl dtoptp:

“Jab,lXtenk,lms'yloddlpajt--oddlaqtulxhsls.tlnmyyclPaj'slkahlxtloruomp
arls.os--mslomj'slojks.mjilosloddcl dtoyt,lXtenkc”lOjpl.tlshiitplosl.tu
o uajlojpls.tl.ojpyc

Xklojplxkly.tlioqtlh ,lojpldtsl.tul.ojpylpua ;l.tulroet,loddlidabmji
bms.ls.tlysuhiidt,leowtlh lojplyhxwmsstpclSawlnmyytpls.tlutpldm ylojp
yomp:

“Jablms'yloddlpajt,lXtenkclOjplodbokylorstuls.my,lkahlnjab,lkahlomj's
tqtulsaldaqtlojkxapklxhslwt,lojplkahlomj'sltqtulsalwouuklojkxapklxhslwt,
tqtuljtqtulojplrautqtuclBmddlkah?”

“Ja,lM'ddljtqtuldaqtlojkxapklxhslkah,lSaw,lojplM'ddljtqtulwouuklojkxapk
xhslkah--ojplkahlomj'slsaltqtulwouuklojkxapklxhslwt,ltms.tuc”

“EtusomjdkclArleahuytclS.os'yl_ ous_larlmsclOjplodbokyleawmjilsalye.aad
aulb.tjlbt'utliamjil.awt,lkah'utlsalbodnlbms.lwt,lb.tjls.tutlomj's
ojkxapkldaanmji--ojplkahle.aaytlwtlojplMle.aaytlkahlosl ousmty,lxteohyt
s.os'yls.tlboklkahlpalb.tjlkah'utltjioitpc”

“Ms'ylyaljmetclMljtqtul.touplarlmslxtrautc”

“A.,lms'yltqtulyaliok!lB.k,lwtlojplOwklDobutjet--”

S.tlxmiltktylsadplSawl.mylxdhjptulojpl.tlysa  tp,leajrhytpc

“A.,lSaw!lS.tjlMlomj'sls.tlrmuyslkah'qtltqtulxttjltjioitplsa!”

S.tle.mdplxtiojlsaleukclSawlyomp:

“A.,lpaj'sleuk,lXtenk,lMlpaj'sleoutlraul.tulojklwautc”

“Kty,lkahlpa,lSaw--kahlnjablkahlpac”

Sawlsumtplsal hsl.mylouwloxahsl.tuljten,lxhsly.tl hy.tpl.mwloboklojp
shujtpl.tulroetlsals.tlbodd,lojplbtjslajleukmjiclSawlsumtploiomj,lbms.
yaas.mjilbaupylmjl.mylwahs.,lojplboylut hdytploiomjclS.tjl.myl umptlboy
h ,lojpl.tlysuaptloboklojplbtjslahsymptcl.tlysaaploxahs,lutysdtyylojp
hjtoyk,lraulolb.mdt,lidojemjilosls.tlpaau,ltqtukljablojpls.tj,l.a mji
y.tlbahdplut tjslojpleawtlsalrmjpl.mwclXhsly.tlpmpljasclS.tjl.tlxtioj
salrttdlxopdklojplrtouls.osl.tlboylmjls.tlbuajiclMslboylol.ouplysuhiidt
bms.l.mwlsalwontljtblopqojety,ljab,lxhsl.tljtuqtpl.mwytdrlsalmslojp
tjstutpclY.tlboylysmddlysojpmjilxoenls.tutlmjls.tleaujtu,lyaxxmji,lbms.
.tulroetlsals.tlboddclSaw'yl.touslywastl.mwcl.tlbtjslsal.tulojplysaaplo
wawtjs,ljaslnjabmjiltzoesdkl.ablsal uaettpclS.tjl.tlyompl.tymsosmjidk:

“Xtenk,lM--Mlpaj'sleoutlraulojkxapklxhslkahc”

Jalut dk--xhslyaxyc

“Xtenk”-- dtopmjidkcl“Xtenk,lbaj'slkahlyoklyawts.mji?”

Wautlyaxyc

Sawliaslahsl.myle.mtrtyslvtbtd,lolxuoyylnjaxlruawls.tlsa larlojlojpmuaj,
ojpl oyytplmslouahjpl.tulyals.osly.tleahdplyttlms,lojplyomp:

“ dtoyt,lXtenk,lbaj'slkahlsontlms?”

Y.tlysuhenlmslsals.tlrdaauclS.tjlSawlwoue.tplahslarls.tl.ahytlojplaqtu
s.tl.mddylojplroulobok,lsalutshujlsalye.aadljalwautls.oslpokcl utytjsdk
Xtenklxtiojlsalyhy tesclY.tluojlsals.tlpaau;l.tlboyljaslmjlymi.s;ly.t
rdtblouahjplsals.tl dok-koup;l.tlboyljasls.tutclS.tjly.tleoddtp:

“Saw!lEawtlxoen,lSaw!”

Y.tldmystjtplmjstjsdk,lxhsls.tutlboyljalojybtuclY.tl.opljaleaw ojmajy
xhslymdtjetlojpldajtdmjtyyclYaly.tlyoslpabjlsaleukloiomjlojplh xuomp
.tuytdr;lojplxkls.mylsmwtls.tlye.adouylxtiojlsalios.tuloiomj,lojply.t
.oplsal.mptl.tuliumtrylojplysmddl.tulxuantjl.touslojplsontlh ls.tleuayy
arloldaji,lputouk,loe.mjilorstujaaj,lbms.ljajtlowajils.tlysuojituyloxahs
.tulsaltze.ojitlyauuabylbms.c




E.O STUlQMMM

SAWlpapitpl.ms.tulojpls.ms.tuls.uahi.ldojtylhjsmdl.tlboylbtddlahslarls.t
suoenlarlutshujmjilye.adouy,lojpls.tjlrtddlmjsalolwaapklvaicl.tleuayytp
olywoddl“xuoje.”lsbalauls.uttlsmwty,lxteohytlarlol utqomdmjilvhqtjmdt
yh tuysmsmajls.oslsaleuayylbostulxorrdtpl huyhmscl.odrlojl.ahuldostu
.tlboylpmyo  toumjilxt.mjpls.tlPahidoylwojymajlajls.tlyhwwmslarlEoupmrr
.mdd,lojpls.tlye.aad-.ahytlboyl.oupdklpmysmjihmy.oxdtloboklarrlmjls.t
qoddtklxt.mjpl.mwcl.tltjstutplolptjytlbaap,l mentpl.myl os.dtyylboklsa
s.tletjsutlarlms,lojplyoslpabjlajlolwayykly aslhjptuloly utopmjilaonc
S.tutlboyljasltqtjlolft .kulysmuumji;ls.tlptopljaajpokl.tosl.opltqtj
ysmddtpls.tlyajiylarls.tlxmupy;ljoshutldoklmjlolsuojetls.oslboylxuantj
xkljalyahjplxhsls.tlaeeoymajodlrou-arrl.owwtumjilarlolbaap- tentu,lojp
s.mylyttwtplsalutjptuls.tl tuqopmjilymdtjetlojplytjytlarldajtdmjtyyls.t
wautl uarahjpclS.tlxak'ylyahdlboylystt tplmjlwtdoje.adk;l.mylrttdmjiy
btutlmjl.o  kloeeauplbms.l.mylyhuuahjpmjiycl.tlyosldajilbms.l.myltdxaby
ajl.mylnjttylojpl.myle.mjlmjl.myl.ojpy,lwtpmsosmjiclMslyttwtplsal.mw
s.osldmrtlboylxhslolsuahxdt,loslxtys,lojpl.tlwautls.ojl.odrltjqmtplVmwwk
.apity,lyaldostdklutdtoytp;lmslwhyslxtlqtukl toetrhd,l.tls.ahi.s,lsaldmt
ojplydhwxtulojplputowlrautqtulojpltqtu,lbms.ls.tlbmjplb.my tumjils.uahi.
s.tlsuttylojpleoutyymjils.tliuoyylojpls.tlrdabtuylaqtuls.tliuoqt,lojp
jas.mjilsalxas.tulojpliumtqtloxahs,ltqtulojklwautclMrl.tlajdkl.oplo
edtojlYhjpok-ye.aadluteaupl.tleahdplxtlbmddmjilsalia,lojplxtlpajtlbms.
msloddclJabloylsals.mylimudclB.osl.opl.tlpajt?lJas.mjicl.tl.oplwtojs
s.tlxtyslmjls.tlbaudp,lojplxttjlsutostpldmntlolpai--dmntlolqtuklpaiclY.t
bahdplxtlyauuklyawtlpok--wokxtlb.tjlmslboylsaaldostclO.,lmrl.tleahdplajdk
pmtl_stw auoumdk_!

Xhsls.tltdoysmel.touslarlkahs.leojjaslxtleaw utyytplmjsalajtleajysuomjtp
y.o tldajiloslolsmwtclSawl utytjsdklxtiojlsalpumrslmjytjymxdklxoenlmjsa
s.tleajetujylarls.myldmrtloiomjclB.oslmrl.tlshujtpl.mylxoen,ljab,lojp
pmyo  toutplwkystumahydk?lB.oslmrl.tlbtjslobok--tqtulyalroulobok,lmjsa
hjnjabjleahjsumtylxtkajpls.tlytoy--ojpljtqtuleowtlxoenlojklwaut!l.ab
bahdply.tlrttdls.tj!lS.tlmptolarlxtmjiloledabjlutehuutplsal.mwljab,lajdk
salrmddl.mwlbms.lpmyihysclRaulrumqadmsklojplvantylojply asstplsmi.sy
btutlojlarrtjyt,lb.tjls.tklmjsuhptpls.twytdqtylh ajloly mumsls.oslboy
tzodstplmjsals.tlqoihtlohihyslutodwlarls.tluawojsmeclJa,l.tlbahdplxt
olyadpmtu,lojplutshujlorstuldajilktouy,loddlbou-baujlojplmddhysumahyc
Ja--xtsstulysmdd,l.tlbahdplvamjls.tlMjpmojy,lojpl.hjslxhrrodatylojplialaj
s.tlbou os.lmjls.tlwahjsomjluojitylojpls.tlsuoendtyyliutosl domjylarls.t
RoulBtys,lojploboklmjls.tlrhshutleawtlxoenloliutosle.mtr,lxumysdmjilbms.
rtos.tuy,l.mptahylbms.l omjs,lojpl uojetlmjsalYhjpok-ye.aad,lyawtlpuabyk
yhwwtulwaujmji,lbms.lolxdaap-ehupdmjilbou-b.aa ,lojplytouls.tltktxoddy
arloddl.myleaw ojmajylbms.lhjo  toyoxdtltjqkclXhslja,ls.tutlboy
yawts.mjiliohpmtultqtjls.ojls.mycl.tlbahdplxtlol muost!lS.oslboylms!
_jab_l.mylrhshutldokl domjlxtrautl.mw,lojplidabmjilbms.lhjmwoimjoxdt
y dtjpaucl.abl.myljowtlbahdplrmddls.tlbaudp,lojplwontl ta dtly.hpptu!
.ablidaumahydkl.tlbahdplial dabmjils.tlpojemjilytoy,lmjl.myldaji,ldab,
xdoen-.hddtpluoetu,ls.tlY mumslarls.tlYsauw,lbms.l.myliumydklrdoilrdkmji
osls.tlraut!lOjplosls.tlftjms.larl.mylrowt,l.abl.tlbahdplyhpptjdklo  tou
osls.tladplqmddoitlojplysodnlmjsale.hue.,lxuabjlojplbtos.tu-xtostj,lmj
.mylxdoenlqtdqtslpahxdtslojplsuhjny,l.myliutoslvoen-xaasy,l.myleumwyaj
yoy.,l.mylxtdslxumysdmjilbms.l.auyt- mysady,l.myleumwt-uhystplehsdoyy
osl.mylympt,l.mylydahe.l.oslbms.lboqmjil dhwty,l.mylxdoenlrdoilhjrhudtp,
bms.ls.tlynhddlojpleuayyxajtylajlms,lojpl.toulbms.lybtddmjilteysoyk
s.tlb.my tumjiy,l“Ms'ylSawlYobktuls.tl muost!--s.tlXdoenlOqtjitularls.t
Y ojmy.lWomj!”

Kty,lmslboylytssdtp;l.myleouttulboylptstuwmjtpcl.tlbahdpluhjloboklruaw
.awtlojpltjstulh ajlmscl.tlbahdplysousls.tlqtukljtzslwaujmjiclS.tutraut
.tlwhysljablxtimjlsalitslutopkcl.tlbahdpleaddtesl.mylutyahuetylsaits.tuc
.tlbtjslsaloluasstjldailjtoulosl.ojplojplxtiojlsalpmilhjptulajtltjplar
mslbms.l.mylXoudablnjmrtcl.tlyaajlysuhenlbaapls.oslyahjptpl.addabcl.t
 hsl.myl.ojpls.tutlojplhsstutpls.mylmjeojsosmajlmw utyymqtdk:

“B.osl.oyj'sleawtl.tut,leawt!lB.os'yl.tut,lysokl.tut!”

S.tjl.tlyeuo tplobokls.tlpmus,lojpltz aytplol mjtly.mjidtcl.tlsaanlms
h lojplpmyedaytploly.o tdkldmssdtlsutoyhut-.ahytlb.aytlxassawlojplympty
btutlarly.mjidtyclMjlmsldoklolwouxdtclSaw'yloysajmy.wtjslboylxahjp-dtyy!
.tlyeuose.tpl.myl.toplbms.lol tu dtztplomu,lojplyomp:

“Btdd,ls.oslxtosylojks.mji!”

S.tjl.tlsayytpls.tlwouxdtlobokl tssmy.dk,lojplysaapleaimsosmjiclS.t
suhs.lboy,ls.oslolyh tuysmsmajlarl.myl.oplromdtp,l.tut,lb.me.l.tlojp
oddl.myleawuoptyl.oplodbokyldaantplh ajloylmjroddmxdtclMrlkahlxhumtp
olwouxdtlbms.letusomjljtetyyouklmjeojsosmajy,lojpldtrslmslodajtlo
rausjmi.s,lojpls.tjla tjtpls.tl doetlbms.ls.tlmjeojsosmajl.tl.oplvhys
hytp,lkahlbahdplrmjpls.osloddls.tlwouxdtylkahl.opltqtuldaysl.oplios.tutp
s.twytdqtylsaits.tuls.tut,lwtojsmwt,ljalwosstul.ablbmptdkls.tkl.oplxttj
yt ouostpclXhsljab,ls.myls.mjil.oploeshoddklojplhjghtysmajoxdklromdtpc
Saw'ylb.adtlysuheshutlarlroms.lboyly.ontjlsalmsylrahjposmajycl.tl.op
wojklolsmwtl.touplarls.myls.mjilyheettpmjilxhsljtqtularlmsylromdmji
xtrautclMslpmpljaslaeehulsal.mwls.osl.tl.oplsumtplmslytqtuodlsmwty
xtraut,l.mwytdr,lxhsleahdpljtqtulrmjpls.tl.mpmji- doetylorstuboupcl.t
 hffdtplaqtuls.tlwosstulyawtlsmwt,lojplrmjoddklptemptpls.oslyawtlbmse.
.oplmjsturtutplojplxuantjls.tle.ouwcl.tls.ahi.sl.tlbahdplyosmyrkl.mwytdr
ajls.osl amjs;lyal.tlytoue.tplouahjplsmddl.tlrahjplolywoddlyojpkly as
bms.loldmssdtlrhjjtd-y.o tplpt utyymajlmjlmscl.tldompl.mwytdrlpabjlojp
 hsl.mylwahs.ledaytlsals.mylpt utyymajlojpleoddtp--

“Paapdt-xhi,lpaapdt-xhi,lstddlwtlb.oslMlbojslsalnjab!lPaapdt-xhi,
paapdt-xhi,lstddlwtlb.oslMlbojslsalnjab!”

S.tlyojplxtiojlsalbaun,lojpl utytjsdklolywoddlxdoenlxhilo  toutplraulo
yteajplojpls.tjlpoustplhjptuloiomjlmjlolrumi.sc

“.tlpoyj'slstdd!lYalmsl_boy_lolbmse.ls.oslpajtlmsclMlvhyslnjabtplmsc”

.tlbtddlnjtbls.tlrhsmdmsklarlsukmjilsaleajstjploiomjyslbmse.ty,lyal.t
ioqtlh lpmyeahuoitpclXhslmslaeehuutplsal.mwls.osl.tlwmi.sloylbtddl.oqt
s.tlwouxdtl.tl.oplvhysls.uabjlobok,lojpls.tutrautl.tlbtjslojplwoptlo
 osmtjslytoue.lraulmsclXhsl.tleahdpljaslrmjplmsclJabl.tlbtjslxoenlsal.my
sutoyhut-.ahytlojpleoutrhddkl doetpl.mwytdrlvhysloyl.tl.oplxttjlysojpmji
b.tjl.tlsayytpls.tlwouxdtlobok;ls.tjl.tlsaanlojas.tulwouxdtlruawl.my
 aentslojplsayytplmslmjls.tlyowtlbok,lyokmji:

“Xuas.tu,lialrmjplkahulxuas.tu!”

.tlbose.tplb.tutlmslysa  tp,lojplbtjsls.tutlojpldaantpclXhslmslwhys
.oqtlroddtjly.auslauliajtlsaalrou;lyal.tlsumtplsbmetlwautclS.tldoys
ut tsmsmajlboylyheetyyrhdclS.tlsbalwouxdtyldoklbms.mjlolraaslarltoe.
as.tuc

Vhysl.tutls.tlxdoyslarlolsaklsmjlsuhw tsleowtlromjsdklpabjls.tliuttj
omydtylarls.tlrautysclSawlrdhjilarrl.mylvoentslojplsuahytuy,lshujtp
olyhy tjptulmjsalolxtds,luontploboklyawtlxuhy.lxt.mjpls.tluasstjldai,
pmyedaymjiloluhptlxablojplouuab,loldos.lybauplojplolsmjlsuhw ts,lojp
mjlolwawtjsl.oplytmftpls.tytls.mjiylojplxahjptplobok,lxoutdtiitp,
bms.lrdhsstumjily.muscl.tl utytjsdkl.odstplhjptuloliutosltdw,lxdtbloj
ojybtumjilxdoys,lojpls.tjlxtiojlsalsm satlojpldaanlboumdklahs,ls.mylbok
ojpls.oscl.tlyompleohsmahydk--salojlmwoimjoukleaw ojk:

“.adp,lwklwtuuklwtj!lNtt l.mplsmddlMlxdabc”

Jablo  toutplVatl.ou tu,loylomumdkledoplojpltdoxauostdklouwtploylSawc
Sawleoddtp:

“.adp!lB.aleawtyl.tutlmjsalY.tubaaplRautyslbms.ahslwkl oyy?”

“IhklarlIhmyxaujtlbojsyljalwoj'yl oyyclB.alousls.ahls.os--s.os--”

“Poutylsal.adplyhe.ldojihoit,”lyomplSaw,l uaw smji--rauls.tklsodntpl“xk
s.tlxaan,”lruawlwtwaukc

“B.alousls.ahls.oslpoutylsal.adplyhe.ldojihoit?”

“M,lmjpttp!lMlowlUaxmjl.aap,loyls.kleomsmrrleoueoytlyaajly.oddlnjabc”

“S.tjlousls.ahlmjpttpls.oslrowahylahsdob?lUmi.slidopdklbmddlMlpmy hst
bms.ls.ttls.tl oyytylarls.tlwtuuklbaapcl.oqtlosls.tt!”

S.tklsaanls.tmuldos.lybaupy,lphw tpls.tmulas.tulsuo ylajls.tliuahjp,
ysuhenlolrtjemjilossmshpt,lraaslsalraas,lojplxtiojloliuoqt,leoutrhd
eawxos,l“sbalh lojplsbalpabjc”l utytjsdklSawlyomp:

“Jab,lmrlkah'qtliasls.tl.oji,lialmsldmqtdk!”

Yals.tkl“btjslmsldmqtdk,”l ojsmjilojpl tuy mumjilbms.ls.tlbaunclXklojp
xklSawly.ahstp:

“Rodd!lrodd!lB.klpaj'slkahlrodd?”

“Mly.o'j's!lB.klpaj'slkahlroddlkahuytdr?lKah'utlitssmjils.tlbauyslar
msc”

“B.k,ls.oslomj'slojks.mjiclMleoj'slrodd;ls.oslomj'sls.tlboklmslmylmjls.t
xaanclS.tlxaanlyoky,l'S.tjlbms.lajtlxoen-.ojptplysuantl.tlydtbl aaulIhk
arlIhmyxaujtc'lKah'utlsalshujlouahjplojpldtslwtl.mslkahlmjls.tlxoenc”

S.tutlboyljalitssmjilouahjpls.tlohs.aumsmty,lyalVatlshujtp,lutetmqtpls.t
b.oenlojplrtddc

“Jab,”lyomplVat,litssmjilh ,l“kahliaslsaldtslwtlnmddl_kah_clS.os'y
romuc”

“B.k,lMleoj'slpals.os,lmslomj'slmjls.tlxaanc”

“Btdd,lms'ylxdowtplwtoj--s.os'yloddc”

“Btdd,lyok,lVat,lkahleojlxtlRumoulShenlaulWhe.ls.tlwmddtu'ylyaj,lojpldow
wtlbms.lolghoustu-ysorr;laulM'ddlxtls.tlY.tumrrlarlJassmji.owlojplkahlxt
Uaxmjl.aaploldmssdtlb.mdtlojplnmddlwtc”

S.mylboylyosmyroesauk,lojplyals.tytlopqtjshutylbtutleouumtplahsclS.tj
SawlxteowtlUaxmjl.aaploiomj,lojplboyloddabtplxkls.tlsutoe.tuahyljhjlsa
xdttpl.mylysutjis.lobokls.uahi.l.myljtidtestplbahjpclOjplosldoyslVat,
ut utytjsmjilolb.adtlsumxtlarlbtt mjilahsdoby,lpuoiitpl.mwlyopdklraus.,
ioqtl.mylxablmjsal.mylrttxdtl.ojpy,lojplSawlyomp,l“B.tutls.mylouuab
roddy,ls.tutlxhukl aaulUaxmjl.aaplhjptuls.tliuttjbaaplsuttc”lS.tjl.t
y.asls.tlouuablojplrtddlxoenlojplbahdpl.oqtlpmtp,lxhsl.tldmslajloljtssdt
ojply uojilh lsaaliomdklrauloleau ytc

S.tlxakylputyytpls.twytdqty,l.mpls.tmuloeeahsutwtjsy,lojplbtjslarr
iumtqmjils.osls.tutlbtutljalahsdobylojklwaut,lojplbajptumjilb.oslwaptuj
emqmdmfosmajleahdpledomwlsal.oqtlpajtlsaleaw tjyostlrauls.tmuldayyc
S.tklyompls.tklbahdpluos.tulxtlahsdobylolktoulmjlY.tubaaplRautysls.oj
 utymptjslarls.tlHjmstplYsostylrautqtuc




E.O STUlMZ

OSl.odr- oysljmjt,ls.osljmi.s,lSawlojplYmplbtutlytjslsalxtp,loylhyhodc
S.tklyompls.tmul uoktuy,lojplYmplboylyaajloydtt clSawldoklobontlojp
bomstp,lmjlutysdtyylmw osmtjetclB.tjlmslyttwtplsal.mwls.oslmslwhyslxt
jtoudklpokdmi.s,l.tl.toupls.tledaenlysumntlstj!lS.mylboylpty omucl.t
bahdpl.oqtlsayytplojplrmpitstp,loyl.myljtuqtylptwojptp,lxhsl.tlboy
oruompl.tlwmi.slbontlYmpclYal.tldoklysmdd,lojplysoutplh lmjsals.tlpounc
Tqtuks.mjilboylpmywoddklysmddclXklojplxk,lahslarls.tlysmddjtyy,ldmssdt,
yeouetdkl tuet smxdtljamytylxtiojlsaltw .oymftls.twytdqtyclS.tlsmenmji
arls.tledaenlxtiojlsalxumjilmsytdrlmjsaljasmetclAdplxtowylxtiojlsaleuoen
wkystumahydkclS.tlysomuyleutontplromjsdkclTqmptjsdkly mumsylbtutloxuaopc
Olwtoyhutp,lwhrrdtplyjautlmyyhtplruawlOhjsl addk'yle.owxtuclOjpljabls.t
smutyawtle.mu mjilarloleumentsls.osljal.hwojlmjitjhmskleahdpldaeost,
xtiojclJtzsls.tli.oysdklsmenmjilarlolptos.-bose.lmjls.tlboddlosls.t
xtp'yl.toplwoptlSawly.hpptu--mslwtojsls.oslyawtxapk'ylpokylbtutljhwxtutpc
S.tjls.tl.abdlarlolrou-arrlpailuaytlajls.tljmi.slomu,lojplboylojybtutp
xklolromjstul.abdlruawlolutwastulpmysojetclSawlboylmjlojloiajkclOsldoys
.tlboylyosmyrmtpls.oslsmwtl.opletoytplojpltstujmsklxtihj;l.tlxtiojlsa
paft,lmjly mstlarl.mwytdr;ls.tledaenle.mwtpltdtqtj,lxhsl.tlpmpljasl.tou
msclOjpls.tjls.tutleowt,lwmjidmjilbms.l.myl.odr-rauwtplputowy,lolways
wtdoje.adkleostubohdmjiclS.tluomymjilarloljtmi.xaumjilbmjpablpmyshuxtp
.mwclOleuklarl“Yeos!lkahlptqmd!”lojpls.tleuoy.larlojltw sklxassdt
oiomjysls.tlxoenlarl.mylohjs'ylbaapy.tplxuahi.sl.mwlbmptlobont,lojplo
ymjidtlwmjhstldostul.tlboylputyytplojplahslarls.tlbmjpablojpleutt mji
odajils.tluaarlarls.tl“tdd”lajloddlrahuycl.tl“wtab'p”lbms.leohsmajlajet
aulsbmet,loyl.tlbtjs;ls.tjlvhw tplsals.tluaarlarls.tlbaapy.tplojpls.tjet
sals.tliuahjpcl.hendtxtuuklRmjjlboyls.tut,lbms.l.mylptopleosclS.tlxaky
waqtplarrlojplpmyo  toutplmjls.tlidaawclOsls.tltjplarl.odrlojl.ahuls.tk
btutlbopmjils.uahi.ls.tlsoddliuoyylarls.tliuoqtkoupc

Mslboyloliuoqtkouplarls.tladp-roy.majtplBtystujlnmjpclMslboylajlol.mdd,
oxahslolwmdtlojplol.odrlruawls.tlqmddoitclMsl.oploleuofklxaouplrtjet
ouahjplms,lb.me.ldtojtplmjbouplmjl doety,lojplahsboupls.tlutyslarls.t
smwt,lxhslysaaplh umi.sljab.tutclIuoyylojplbttpyliutbluojnlaqtuls.t
b.adtletwtstukclOddls.tladpliuoqtylbtutlyhjntjlmj,ls.tutlboyljaslo
sawxysajtlajls.tl doet;luahjp-sa  tp,lbauw-tostjlxaoupylysoiitutplaqtu
s.tliuoqty,ldtojmjilraulyh  auslojplrmjpmjiljajtcl“Yoeutplsals.tlwtwauk
ar”lYa-ojp-Yal.oplxttjl omjstplajls.twlajet,lxhslmsleahdpljaldajitul.oqt
xttjlutop,lajls.tlwayslarls.tw,ljab,ltqtjlmrls.tutl.oplxttjldmi.sc

Olromjslbmjplwaojtpls.uahi.ls.tlsutty,lojplSawlrtoutplmslwmi.slxtls.t
y mumsylarls.tlptop,leaw domjmjiloslxtmjilpmyshuxtpclS.tlxakylsodntp
dmssdt,lojplajdklhjptuls.tmulxutos.,lrauls.tlsmwtlojpls.tl doetlojpls.t
 tuqopmjilyadtwjmsklojplymdtjetla  utyytpls.tmuly mumsyclS.tklrahjpls.t
y.ou ljtbl.to ls.tklbtutlyttnmji,lojpltjyeajetpls.twytdqtylbms.mjls.t
 uastesmajlarls.uttliutosltdwyls.osliutblmjlolxhje.lbms.mjlolrtblrttslar
s.tliuoqtc

S.tjls.tklbomstplmjlymdtjetlraulb.oslyttwtploldajilsmwtclS.tl.aasmjilar
olpmysojslabdlboyloddls.tlyahjpls.oslsuahxdtpls.tlptoplysmddjtyyclSaw'y
utrdtesmajyliutbla  utyymqtcl.tlwhyslrauetlyawtlsodnclYal.tlyomplmjlo
b.my tu:

“.henk,lpalkahlxtdmtqtls.tlptopl ta dtldmntlmslraulhylsalxtl.tut?”

.hendtxtuuklb.my tutp:

“Mlbmy.slMlnjabtpclMs'ylobrhdlyadtwjldmnt,l_omj's_lms?”

“Mlxtslmslmyc”

S.tutlboyloleajymptuoxdtl ohyt,lb.mdtls.tlxakyleojqoyytpls.mylwosstu
mjboupdkclS.tjlSawlb.my tutp:

“Yok,l.henk--palkahlutenajl.ayylBmddmowyl.touylhylsodnmji?”

“A'leahuytl.tlpatyclDtoysl.myly tuumslpatyc”

Saw,lorstulol ohyt:

“Mlbmy.lM'plyomplWmystulBmddmowyclXhslMljtqtulwtojslojkl.ouwclTqtukxapk
eoddyl.mwl.ayyc”

“Olxapkleoj'slxtlsaal ousme'doul.abls.tklsodnl'xahsls.tyt-ktulptop
 ta dt,lSawc”

S.mylboylolpow tu,lojpleajqtuyosmajlpmtploiomjc

 utytjsdklSawlytmftpl.myleawuopt'ylouwlojplyomp:

“Y.!”

“B.oslmylms,lSaw?”lOjpls.tlsbaledhjilsaits.tulbms.lxtosmjil.tousyc

“Y.!lS.tutl'smyloiomj!lPmpj'slkahl.toulms?”

“M--”

“S.tut!lJablkahl.toulmsc”

“Daup,lSaw,ls.tk'utleawmji!lS.tk'utleawmji,lyhutclB.os'ddlbtlpa?”

“MlpajaclS.mjnls.tk'ddlyttlhy?”

“A.,lSaw,ls.tkleojlyttlmjls.tlpoun,lyowtloyleosyclMlbmy.slMl.opj's
eawtc”

“A.,lpaj'slxtlortoupclMlpaj'slxtdmtqtls.tk'ddlxas.tulhyclBtlomj'slpamji
ojkl.ouwclMrlbtlntt l turtesdklysmdd,lwokxtls.tklbaj'sljasmetlhylos
oddc”

“M'ddlsuklsa,lSaw,lxhs,lDaup,lM'wloddlarloly.mqtuc”

“Dmystj!”

S.tlxakylxtjsls.tmul.topylsaits.tulojplyeouetdklxutos.tpclOlwhrrdtp
yahjplarlqametylrdaostplh lruawls.tlroultjplarls.tliuoqtkoupc

“Daan!lYttls.tut!”lb.my tutplSawcl“B.oslmylms?”

“Ms'ylptqmd-rmutclA.,lSaw,ls.mylmylobrhdc”

Yawtlqoihtlrmihutylo  uaoe.tpls.uahi.ls.tlidaaw,lybmjimjiloj
adp-roy.majtplsmjldojstujls.oslrutendtpls.tliuahjplbms.lmjjhwtuoxdt
dmssdtly ojidtylarldmi.scl utytjsdkl.hendtxtuuklb.my tutplbms.lo
y.hpptu:

“Ms'yls.tlptqmdylyhutltjahi.clS.uttlarl'tw!lDaupk,lSaw,lbt'utliajtuy!
Eojlkahl uok?”

“M'ddlsuk,lxhslpaj'slkahlxtlortoupclS.tklomj'sliamjilsal.huslhycl'JablM
doklwtlpabjlsalydtt ,lM--'”

“Y.!”

“B.oslmylms,l.hen?”

“S.tk'utl_.hwojy_!lAjtlarl'twlmy,lojkbokclAjtlarl'tw'yladplWhrrl asstu'y
qametc”

“Ja--'somj'slya,lmylms?”

“MlxtslMlnjablmsclPaj'slkahlysmuljaulxhpitcl.tlomj'sly.ou ltjahi.lsa
jasmetlhyclPuhjn,ls.tlyowtloylhyhod,ldmntdk--xdowtpladplum !”

“Oddlumi.s,lM'ddlntt lysmddclJabls.tk'utlyshenclEoj'slrmjplmscl.tutls.tk
eawtloiomjclJabls.tk'utl.asclEadploiomjcl.asloiomjclUtpl.as!lS.tk'ut
 'mjstplumi.s,ls.mylsmwtclYok,l.hen,lMlnjablojas.tula'ls.twlqamety;lms'y
MjvhjlVatc”

“S.os'ylya--s.oslwhuptumj'l.odr-xuttp!lM'plpuhs.tuls.tklboylptqmdylolptuj
ymi.sclB.oslnmjls.tklxtlh lsa?”

S.tlb.my tulpmtplb.addklahs,ljab,lrauls.tls.uttlwtjl.oplutoe.tpls.t
iuoqtlojplysaaplbms.mjlolrtblrttslarls.tlxaky'l.mpmji- doetc

“.tutlmslmy,”lyompls.tls.muplqamet;lojpls.tlabjtularlmsl.tdpls.tldojstuj
h lojplutqtodtpls.tlroetlarlkahjilPaesaulUaxmjyajc

 asstulojplMjvhjlVatlbtutleouukmjilol.ojpxouuablbms.lolua tlojploleah dt
arly.aqtdylajlmsclS.tkleoyslpabjls.tmuldaoplojplxtiojlsala tjls.tliuoqtc
S.tlpaesaul hsls.tldojstujlosls.tl.toplarls.tliuoqtlojpleowtlojplyos
pabjlbms.l.mylxoenloiomjyslajtlarls.tltdwlsuttycl.tlboylyaledaytls.t
xakyleahdpl.oqtlsahe.tpl.mwc

“.huuk,lwtj!”l.tlyomp,lmjloldablqamet;l“s.tlwaajlwmi.sleawtlahsloslojk
wawtjsc”

S.tkliuabdtploluty ajytlojplbtjslajlpmiimjiclRaulyawtlsmwtls.tutlboylja
jamytlxhsls.tliuosmjilyahjplarls.tly optylpmye.ouimjils.tmulrutmi.slar
wahdplojpliuoqtdclMslboylqtuklwajasajahyclRmjoddkloly optlysuhenlh aj
s.tlearrmjlbms.lolphddlbaapkloeetjs,lojplbms.mjlojas.tulwmjhstlaulsba
s.tlwtjl.opl.amystplmslahslajls.tliuahjpclS.tkl umtplarrls.tldmplbms.
s.tmuly.aqtdy,liaslahsls.tlxapklojplphw tplmsluhptdklajls.tliuahjpclS.t
waajlpumrstplruawlxt.mjpls.tledahpylojpltz aytpls.tl oddmplroetc
S.tlxouuablboyliaslutopklojpls.tleau ytl doetplajlms,leaqtutplbms.lo
xdojnts,lojplxahjplsalmsyl doetlbms.ls.tlua tcl asstulsaanlahsloldouit
y umji-njmrtlojplehslarrls.tlpojidmjiltjplarls.tlua tlojpls.tjlyomp:

“Jabls.tlehyytpls.mji'ylutopk,lYobxajty,lojplkah'ddlvhyslahslbms.
ojas.tulrmqt,laul.tutly.tlysokyc”

“S.os'yls.tlsodn!”lyomplMjvhjlVatc

“Daanl.tut,lb.oslpatyls.mylwtoj?”lyompls.tlpaesaucl“Kahlutghmutplkahu
 oklmjlopqojet,lojplM'qtl omplkahc”

“Kty,lojplkahlpajtlwautls.ojls.os,”lyomplMjvhjlVat,lo  uaoe.mjils.t
paesau,lb.alboyljablysojpmjicl“Rmqtlktouyloialkahlpuaqtlwtloboklruaw
kahulros.tu'ylnmse.tjlajtljmi.s,lb.tjlMleawtlsaloynlraulyawts.mjilsa
tos,lojplkahlyomplMlbouj'sls.tutlraulojkliaap;lojplb.tjlMlybautlM'plits
tqtjlbms.lkahlmrlmslsaanlol.hjputplktouy,lkahulros.tul.oplwtlvomdtplrau
olqoiuojsclPmplkahls.mjnlM'plrauits?lS.tlMjvhjlxdaaplomj'slmjlwtlrau
jas.mjiclOjpljablM'qtl_ias_lkah,lojplkahliaslsal_ytssdt_,lkahlnjab!”

.tlboyls.utostjmjils.tlpaesau,lbms.l.mylrmyslmjl.mylroet,lxkls.mylsmwtc
S.tlpaesaulysuhenlahslyhpptjdklojplysutse.tpls.tluhrrmojlajls.tliuahjpc
 asstulpua  tpl.mylnjmrt,lojpltzedomwtp:

“.tut,ljab,lpaj'slkahl.mslwkl oup!”lojpls.tljtzslwawtjsl.tl.opliuo  dtp
bms.ls.tlpaesaulojpls.tlsbalbtutlysuhiidmjilbms.lwmi.slojplwomj,
suow dmjils.tliuoyylojplstoumjils.tliuahjplbms.ls.tmul.ttdyclMjvhjlVat
y uojilsal.mylrtts,l.myltktylrdowmjilbms.l oyymaj,lyjose.tplh l asstu'y
njmrt,lojplbtjsleutt mji,leosdmntlojplysaa mji,luahjplojpluahjploxahs
s.tleawxosojsy,lyttnmjilojla  aushjmskclOddloslajetls.tlpaesaulrdhji
.mwytdrlrutt,lytmftpls.tl.toqkl.topxaouplarlBmddmowy'liuoqtlojplrtddtp
 asstulsals.tltous.lbms.lms--ojplmjls.tlyowtlmjysojsls.tl.odr-xuttplyob
.myle.ojetlojplpuaqtls.tlnjmrtlsals.tl.mdslmjls.tlkahjilwoj'ylxutoyscl.t
uttdtplojplrtddl ousdklh ajl asstu,lrdaapmjil.mwlbms.l.mylxdaap,lojplmj
s.tlyowtlwawtjsls.tledahpylxdasstplahsls.tlputoprhdly tesoedtlojpls.t
sbalrumi.stjtplxakylbtjsly ttpmjiloboklmjls.tlpounc

 utytjsdk,lb.tjls.tlwaajltwtuitploiomj,lMjvhjlVatlboylysojpmjilaqtuls.t
sbalrauwy,leajstw dosmjils.twclS.tlpaesaulwhuwhutplmjousmehdostdk,lioqt
oldajilioy laulsbalojplboylysmddclS.tl.odr-xuttplwhsstutp:

“_S.os_lyeautlmylytssdtp--powjlkahc”

S.tjl.tluaxxtpls.tlxapkclOrstulb.me.l.tl hsls.tlrosodlnjmrtlmjl asstu'y
a tjlumi.sl.ojp,lojplyoslpabjlajls.tlpmywojsdtplearrmjclS.utt--rahu--rmqt
wmjhstyl oyytp,lojpls.tjl asstulxtiojlsalysmulojplwaojcl.myl.ojpledaytp
h ajls.tlnjmrt;l.tluomytplms,lidojetploslms,lojpldtslmslrodd,lbms.lo
y.hpptuclS.tjl.tlyoslh ,l hy.mjils.tlxapklruawl.mw,lojplioftploslms,lojp
s.tjlouahjpl.mw,leajrhytpdkcl.myltktylwtslVat'yc

“Daup,l.ablmyls.my,lVat?”l.tlyompc

“Ms'ylolpmusklxhymjtyy,”lyomplVat,lbms.ahslwaqmjic

“B.oslpmplkahlpalmslrau?”

“M!lMljtqtulpajtlms!”

“Daanl.tut!lS.oslnmjplarlsodnlbaj'slboy.c”

 asstulsutwxdtplojpliutblb.mstc

“Mls.ahi.slM'pliaslyaxtuclM'pljalxhymjtyylsalpumjnlsa-jmi.sclXhslms'y
mjlwkl.toplkts--bauyt'jlb.tjlbtlysoustpl.tutclM'wloddlmjlolwhppdt;
eoj'sluteaddteslojks.mjilarlms,l.oupdkclStddlwt,lVat--_.ajtys_,ljab,
adplrtddtu--pmplMlpalms?lVat,lMljtqtulwtojslsa--' ajlwklyahdlojpl.ajau,lM
jtqtulwtojslsa,lVatclStddlwtl.ablmslboy,lVatclA.,lms'ylobrhd--ojpl.mwlya
kahjilojpl uawmymjic”

“B.k,lkahlsbalboylyehrrdmji,lojpl.tlrtse.tplkahlajtlbms.ls.tl.topxaoup
ojplkahlrtddlrdos;lojpls.tjlh lkahleawt,loddluttdmjilojplysoiitumji
dmnt,lojplyjose.tpls.tlnjmrtlojplvowwtplmslmjsal.mw,lvhysloyl.tlrtse.tp
kahlojas.tulobrhdledm --ojpl.tutlkah'qtldomp,loylptoploylolbtpitlsmd
jabc”

“A.,lMlpmpj'slnjablb.oslMlboylo-pamjiclMlbmy.lMlwoklpmtls.mylwmjhstlmrlM
pmpclMslboyloddlajloeeahjslarls.tlb.myntklojpls.tltzemstwtjs,lMlutenajc
Mljtqtulhytplolbtt ajlmjlwkldmrtlxtraut,lVatclM'qtlrahi.s,lxhsljtqtu
bms.lbtt ajyclS.tk'ddloddlyokls.osclVat,lpaj'slstdd!lYoklkahlbaj'slstdd,
Vat--s.os'yloliaaplrtddtuclMlodbokyldmntplkah,lVat,lojplysaaplh lraulkah,
saaclPaj'slkahlutwtwxtu?lKahl_baj's_lstdd,l_bmdd_lkah,lVat?”lOjpls.t
 aauleutoshutlpua  tplajl.mylnjttylxtrautls.tlysadmplwhuptutu,lojp
edoy tpl.mylo  todmjil.ojpyc

“Ja,lkah'qtlodbokylxttjlromulojplyghoutlbms.lwt,lWhrrl asstu,lojplM
baj'slialxoenlajlkahclS.tut,ljab,ls.os'yloylromuloylolwojleojlyokc”

“A.,lVat,lkah'utlojlojitdclM'ddlxdtyylkahlrauls.myls.tldajityslpoklM
dmqtc”lOjpl asstulxtiojlsaleukc

“Eawt,ljab,ls.os'yltjahi.larls.osclS.mylomj'slojklsmwtlraulxdhxxtumjic
KahlxtlarrlkajptulboklojplM'ddlials.myclWaqt,ljab,lojplpaj'sldtoqtlojk
suoenylxt.mjplkahc”

 asstulysoustplajlolsuasls.oslghmendklmjeutoytplsaloluhjclS.tl.odr-xuttp
ysaapldaanmjilorstul.mwcl.tlwhsstutp:

“Mrl.t'yloylwhe.lyshjjtplbms.ls.tldmenlojplrhppdtplbms.ls.tluhwloyl.t
.opls.tldaanlarlxtmji,l.tlbaj'sls.mjnlarls.tlnjmrtlsmddl.t'yliajtlya
roul.t'ddlxtloruomplsaleawtlxoenlorstulmslsalyhe.lol doetlxk
.mwytdr--e.mentj-.tous!”

Sbalauls.uttlwmjhstyldostuls.tlwhuptutplwoj,ls.tlxdojntstpleau yt,ls.t
dmpdtyylearrmj,lojpls.tla tjliuoqtlbtutlhjptuljalmjy tesmajlxhsls.t
waaj'yclS.tlysmddjtyylboyleaw dtstloiomj,lsaac




E.O STUlZ

S.Tlsbalxakylrdtblajlojplaj,lsaboupls.tlqmddoit,ly tte.dtyylbms.
.auuauclS.tklidojetplxoenbouplaqtuls.tmuly.ahdptuylruawlsmwtlsalsmwt,
o  ut.tjymqtdk,loylmrls.tklrtoutpls.tklwmi.slxtlraddabtpclTqtuklyshw 
s.oslysoustplh lmjls.tmul os.lyttwtplolwojlojplojltjtwk,lojplwoptls.tw
eose.ls.tmulxutos.;lojployls.tkly tplxklyawtlahsdkmjileassoityls.osldok
jtouls.tlqmddoit,ls.tlxounmjilarls.tlouahytplbose.-paiylyttwtplsalimqt
bmjiylsals.tmulrttsc

“Mrlbtleojlajdklitslsals.tladplsojjtuklxtrautlbtlxutonlpabj!”lb.my tutp
Saw,lmjly.ausleose.tylxtsbttjlxutos.ycl“Mleoj'slysojplmslwhe.ldajituc”

.hendtxtuuk'yl.oupl ojsmjiylbtutl.mylajdklut dk,lojpls.tlxakylrmztp
s.tmultktylajls.tliaodlarls.tmul.a tylojplxtjslsals.tmulbaunlsalbmjlmsc
S.tkliomjtplystopmdklajlms,lojplosldoys,lxutoyslsalxutoys,ls.tklxhuys
s.uahi.ls.tla tjlpaaulojplrtddliuostrhdlojpltz.ohystplmjls.tly.tdstumji
y.opabylxtkajpclXklojplxkls.tmul hdytylydabtplpabj,lojplSawlb.my tutp:

“.hendtxtuuk,lb.oslpalkahlutenaj'ddleawtlarls.my?”

“MrlPaesaulUaxmjyajlpmty,lMlutenajl.ojimji'ddleawtlarlmsc”

“Palkahls.ahi.?”

“B.k,lMl_njab_lms,lSawc”

Sawls.ahi.slolb.mdt,ls.tjl.tlyomp:

“B.a'ddlstdd?lBt?”

“B.osloutlkahlsodnmjiloxahs?lY' aytlyawts.mjil.o  tjtplojplMjvhjlVat
_pmpj's_l.oji?lB.k,l.t'plnmddlhylyawtlsmwtlaulas.tu,lvhysloylptoplyhut
oylbt'utloldokmjil.tutc”

“S.os'ylvhyslb.oslMlboyls.mjnmjilsalwkytdr,l.henc”

“Mrlojkxapklstddy,ldtslWhrrl asstulpalms,lmrl.t'ylraadltjahi.cl.t'y
itjtuoddklpuhjnltjahi.c”

Sawlyompljas.mji--btjslajls.mjnmjicl utytjsdkl.tlb.my tutp:

“.hen,lWhrrl asstulpaj'slnjablmscl.ableojl.tlstdd?”

“B.os'yls.tlutoyajl.tlpaj'slnjablms?”

“Xteohytl.t'plvhysliasls.oslb.oenlb.tjlMjvhjlVatlpajtlmsclP'kahlutenaj
.tleahdplyttlojks.mji?lP'kahlutenajl.tlnjabtplojks.mji?”

“Xkl.antk,ls.os'ylya,lSaw!”

“Ojplxtympty,ldaan-o-.tut--wokxtls.oslb.oenlpajtlraul_.mw_!”

“Ja,l'somjsldmntdk,lSawcl.tl.opldmghaulmjl.mw;lMleahdplyttls.os;lojp
xtympty,l.tlodbokyl.oyclBtdd,lb.tjl o 'ylrhdd,lkahlwmi.slsontlojplxtds
.mwlaqtuls.tl.toplbms.lole.hue.lojplkahleahdpj'sl .oytl.mwcl.tlyokylya,
.mylabjlytdrclYalms'yls.tlyowtlbms.lWhrrl asstu,larleahuytclXhslmrlolwoj
boylptoplyaxtu,lMlutenajlwokxtls.oslb.oenlwmi.slrtse.l.mw;lMlpajac”

Orstulojas.tulutrdtesmqtlymdtjet,lSawlyomp:

“.henk,lkahlyhutlkahleojlntt lwhw?”

“Saw,lbtl_ias_lsalntt lwhwclKahlnjabls.osclS.oslMjvhjlptqmdlbahdpj's
wontlojklwautlarlpuabjpmjilhyls.ojloleah dtlarleosy,lmrlbtlboylsalyghton
'xahsls.mylojpls.tklpmpj'sl.ojil.mwclJab,ldaan-o-.tut,lSaw,ldtyylsont
ojplybtoulsalajtlojas.tu--s.os'ylb.oslbtliaslsalpa--ybtoulsalntt lwhwc”

“M'wloiuttpclMs'yls.tlxtysls.mjiclBahdplkahlvhysl.adpl.ojpylojplybtou
s.oslbt--”

“A.lja,ls.oslbahdpj'slpalrauls.myclS.os'yliaapltjahi.lrauldmssdt
uhxxmy.kleawwajls.mjiy--y temoddklbms.liody,lehfl_s.tk_lialxoenlajlkah
ojkbok,lojplxdoxlmrls.tklitslmjlol.hrr--xhsls.tutlaustulxtlbumsmjil'xahs
olxmils.mjildmntls.myclOjplxdaapc”

Saw'ylb.adtlxtmjilo  dohptpls.mylmptoclMslboylptt ,lojplpoun,lojplobrhd;
s.tl.ahu,ls.tlemuehwysojety,ls.tlyhuuahjpmjiy,lbtutlmjlntt mjilbms.lmsc
.tl mentplh loledtojl mjtly.mjidtls.osldoklmjls.tlwaaj-dmi.s,lsaanlo
dmssdtlruoiwtjslarl“utplnttd”lahslarl.myl aents,liasls.tlwaajlaj
.mylbaun,lojpl omjrhddklyeuobdtpls.tytldmjty,ltw .oymfmjiltoe.lydab
pabj-ysuantlxkledow mjil.mylsajihtlxtsbttjl.mylstts.,lojpldtssmjilh ls.t
 utyyhutlajls.tlh -ysuantycl[Yttljtzsl oitc]

“.henlRmjjlojplSawlYobktulybtouyls.tklbmddlntt lwhwloxahslS.mylojplS.tk
bmy.lS.tklwoklPua lpabjlptoplmjlS.tmulSuoenylmrlS.tkltqtulStddlojplUasc”

.hendtxtuuklboylrmddtplbms.lopwmuosmajlarlSaw'ylroemdmsklmjlbumsmji,lojp
s.tlyhxdmwmsklarl.myldojihoitcl.tloslajetlsaanlol mjlruawl.myldo tdlojp
boyliamjilsal umenl.mylrdty.,lxhslSawlyomp:

“.adplaj!lPaj'slpals.osclOl mj'ylxuoyyclMslwmi.sl.oqtlqtupmiutoytlaj
msc”

“B.os'ylqtupmiutoyt?”

“Ms'yl 'myajclS.os'ylb.oslmslmyclKahlvhyslyboddtulyawtlarlmslajet--kah'dd
yttc”

YalSawlhjbahjpls.tls.utoplruawlajtlarl.myljttpdty,lojpltoe.lxakl umentp
s.tlxoddlarl.myls.hwxlojplyghttftplahslolpua larlxdaapclMjlsmwt,lorstu
wojklyghttfty,lSawlwojoitplsalymijl.mylmjmsmody,lhymjils.tlxoddlarl.my
dmssdtlrmjitulraulol tjclS.tjl.tly.abtpl.hendtxtuukl.ablsalwontlojl.lojp
ojlR,lojpls.tlaos.lboyleaw dtstclS.tklxhumtpls.tly.mjidtledaytlsals.t
bodd,lbms.lyawtlpmywodletutwajmtylojplmjeojsosmajy,lojpls.tlrtsstuy
s.oslxahjpls.tmulsajihtylbtutleajymptutplsalxtldaentplojpls.tlntkls.uabj
obokc

Olrmihutleut slystods.mdkls.uahi.lolxutonlmjls.tlas.tultjplarls.tluhmjtp
xhmdpmji,ljab,lxhsls.tklpmpljasljasmetlmsc

“Saw,”lb.my tutpl.hendtxtuuk,l“patyls.mylntt lhylruawl_tqtu_
stddmji--_odboky_?”

“ArleahuytlmslpatyclMslpaj'slwontlojklpmrrtutjetl_b.os_l.o  tjy,lbtlias
salntt lwhwclBt'plpua lpabjlptop--paj'sl_kah_lnjabls.os?”

“Kty,lMlutenajls.os'ylyac”

S.tkleajsmjhtplsalb.my tulraulyawtldmssdtlsmwtcl utytjsdklolpailytslh 
oldaji,ldhihxumahyl.abdlvhyslahsympt--bms.mjlstjlrttslarls.twclS.tlxaky
edoy tpltoe.las.tulyhpptjdk,lmjlojloiajklarlrumi.sc

“B.me.larlhylpatyl.tlwtoj?”lioy tpl.hendtxtuukc

“Mlpaja-- tt ls.uahi.ls.tleuoenclGhmen!”

“Ja,l_kah_,lSaw!”

“Mleoj's--Mleoj'sl_pa_lms,l.hen!”

“ dtoyt,lSawclS.tutl'smyloiomj!”

“A.,ldaupk,lM'wls.ojnrhd!”lb.my tutplSawcl“Mlnjabl.mylqametclMs'ylXhdd
.ouxmyajc”l*

[*lMrlWucl.ouxmyajlabjtplolydoqtljowtplXhdd,lSawlbahdpl.oqtly antjlar
.mwloyl“.ouxmyaj'ylXhdd,”lxhslolyajlaulolpailarls.osljowtlboyl“Xhdd
.ouxmyajc”]

“A.,ls.os'yliaap--Mlstddlkah,lSaw,lMlboylwayslyeoutplsalptos.;lM'plolxts
ojks.mjilmslboylol_ysuok_lpaic”

S.tlpail.abdtploiomjclS.tlxaky'l.tousylyojnlajetlwautc

“A.,lwk!ls.oslomj'sljalXhddl.ouxmyaj!”lb.my tutpl.hendtxtuukcl“_Pa_,
Saw!”

Saw,lghonmjilbms.lrtou,lkmtdptp,lojpl hsl.myltktlsals.tleuoencl.my
b.my tulboyl.oupdklohpmxdtlb.tjl.tlyomp:

“A.,l.hen,l_msylolysuoklpai_!”

“Ghmen,lSaw,lghmen!lB.alpatyl.tlwtoj?”

“.hen,l.tlwhyslwtojlhylxas.--bt'utlumi.slsaits.tuc”

“A.,lSaw,lMlutenajlbt'utliajtuyclMlutenajls.tutlomj'sljalwmysontl'xahs
b.tutl_M'dd_lialsaclMlxttjlyalbmentpc”

“Poplrtse.lms!lS.myleawtylarl dokmjil.aantklojplpamjiltqtuks.mjilo
rtddtu'ylsadpl_jas_lsalpaclMlwmi.slolxttjliaap,ldmntlYmp,lmrlM'plo
sumtp--xhslja,lMlbahdpj's,larleahuytclXhslmrltqtulMlitslarrls.mylsmwt,
MldoklM'ddlvhysl_boddtu_lmjlYhjpok-ye.aady!”lOjplSawlxtiojlsalyjhrrdtlo
dmssdtc

“_Kah_lxop!”lojpl.hendtxtuuklxtiojlsalyjhrrdtlsaacl“Eajyahjplms,lSaw
Yobktu,lkah'utlvhysladpl mt,l'daji-ymptla'lb.oslMlowclA.,l_daupk_,
daupk,ldaupk,lMlbmy.slMlajdkl.opl.odrlkahule.ojetc”

Sawle.antplarrlojplb.my tutp:

“Daan,l.henk,ldaan!l.t'yliasl.myl_xoen_lsalhy!”

.henkldaantp,lbms.lvaklmjl.myl.tousc

“Btdd,l.tl.oy,lxklvmjiaty!lPmpl.tlxtraut?”

“Kty,l.tlpmpclXhslM,ldmntlolraad,ljtqtuls.ahi.sclA.,ls.mylmylxhddk,lkah
njabcl_Jab_lb.aleojl.tlwtoj?”

S.tl.abdmjilysa  tpclSawl umentplh l.myltouyc

“Y.!lB.os'yls.os?”l.tlb.my tutpc

“Yahjpyldmnt--dmntl.aiyliuhjsmjiclJa--ms'ylyawtxapklyjaumji,lSawc”

“S.osl_my_lms!lB.tutl'xahsylmylms,l.hen?”

“Mlxdttqtlms'ylpabjlosl'sas.tultjpclYahjpylya,lojkbokcl o lhytplsalydtt 
s.tut,lyawtsmwty,l'dajilbms.ls.tl.aiy,lxhsldobylxdtyylkah,l.tlvhysldmrsy
s.mjiylb.tjl_.t_lyjautyclXtympty,lMlutenajl.tlomj'sltqtuleawmjilxoenlsa
s.mylsabjlojklwautc”

S.tly mumslarlopqtjshutluaytlmjls.tlxaky'lyahdylajetlwautc

“.henk,lpalkahlpoy'slsalialmrlMldtop?”

“Mlpaj'sldmntlsa,lwhe.clSaw,ly' aytlms'ylMjvhjlVat!”

SawlghomdtpclXhsl utytjsdkls.tlstw sosmajluaytlh lysuajiloiomjlojpls.t
xakyloiuttplsalsuk,lbms.ls.tlhjptuysojpmjils.osls.tklbahdplsontlsals.tmu
.ttdylmrls.tlyjaumjilysa  tpclYals.tklbtjslsm satmjilystods.mdklpabj,
s.tlajtlxt.mjpls.tlas.tuclB.tjls.tkl.opliaslsalbms.mjlrmqtlyst ylarls.t
yjautu,lSawlyst  tplajlolysmen,lojplmslxuantlbms.loly.ou lyjo clS.tlwoj
waojtp,lbums.tploldmssdt,lojpl.mylroetleowtlmjsals.tlwaajdmi.sclMslboy
Whrrl asstuclS.tlxaky'l.tousyl.oplysaaplysmdd,lojpls.tmul.a tylsaa,
b.tjls.tlwojlwaqtp,lxhsls.tmulrtouyl oyytplobokljabclS.tklsm -satplahs,
s.uahi.ls.tlxuantjlbtos.tu-xaoupmji,lojplysa  tplosloldmssdtlpmysojet
saltze.ojitlol ousmjilbaupclS.osldaji,ldhihxumahyl.abdluaytlajls.tljmi.s
omuloiomj!lS.tklshujtplojplyobls.tlysuojitlpailysojpmjilbms.mjlolrtb
rttslarlb.tutl asstulboyldkmji,lojpl_roemji_l asstu,lbms.l.myljayt
 amjsmjil.toqtjboupc

“A.,littwmjk,lms'yl_.mw_!”ltzedomwtplxas.lxaky,lmjlolxutos.c

“Yok,lSaw--s.tklyoklolysuoklpaileawtl.abdmjilouahjplVa.jjklWmddtu'y
.ahyt,l'xahslwmpjmi.s,loylwhe.loylsbalbttnyloia;lojplolb.m  aaubmddleawt
mjlojpldmslajls.tlxojmystuylojplyhji,ls.tlqtuklyowtltqtjmji;lojpls.tut
omj'slojkxapklptopls.tutlktsc”

“Btdd,lMlnjabls.osclOjplyh  aytls.tutlomj'sclPmpj'slIuoemtlWmddtulrodd
mjls.tlnmse.tjlrmutlojplxhujl.tuytdrlstuumxdtls.tlqtukljtzslYoshupok?”

“Kty,lxhsly.tlomj'sl_ptop_clOjplb.os'ylwaut,ly.t'ylitssmjilxtsstu,lsaac”

“Oddlumi.s,lkahlbomslojplyttclY.t'yloliajtu,lvhysloylptoplyhutloylWhrr
 asstu'yloliajtuclS.os'ylb.osls.tljmiituylyok,lojpls.tklnjabloddloxahs
s.tytlnmjplarls.mjiy,l.henc”

S.tjls.tklyt ouostp,leaimsosmjiclB.tjlSawleut slmjlosl.mylxtpuaawlbmjpab
s.tljmi.slboylodwaysly tjscl.tlhjputyytplbms.ltzetyymqtleohsmaj,lojp
rtddloydtt leajiuoshdosmjil.mwytdrls.osljaxapklnjtblarl.myltyeo optcl.t
boyljasloboutls.osls.tlitjsdk-yjaumjilYmplboylobont,lojpl.oplxttjlyalrau
ojl.ahuc

B.tjlSawlobant,lYmplboylputyytplojpliajtclS.tutlboyloldostldaanlmjls.t
dmi.s,loldostlytjytlmjls.tlosway .tutcl.tlboylysousdtpclB.kl.opl.tljas
xttjleoddtp-- tuytehstplsmddl.tlboylh ,loylhyhod?lS.tls.ahi.slrmddtp
.mwlbms.lxapmjiyclBms.mjlrmqtlwmjhstyl.tlboylputyytplojplpabj-ysomuy,
rttdmjilyautlojplpuabykclS.tlrowmdklbtutlysmddloslsoxdt,lxhsls.tkl.op
rmjmy.tplxutonroysclS.tutlboyljalqametlarlutxhnt;lxhsls.tutlbtutloqtustp
tkty;ls.tutlboylolymdtjetlojplojlomularlyadtwjmskls.oslysuhenlole.mdd
sals.tlehd ums'yl.touscl.tlyoslpabjlojplsumtplsalyttwliok,lxhslms
boylh -.mddlbaun;lmsluahytpljalywmdt,ljaluty ajyt,lojpl.tldo ytplmjsa
ymdtjetlojpldtsl.myl.touslymjnlpabjlsals.tlpt s.yc

Orstulxutonroysl.mylohjslsaanl.mwloympt,lojplSawlodwayslxumi.stjtplmj
s.tl.a tls.osl.tlboyliamjilsalxtlrdaiitp;lxhslmslboyljaslyacl.mylohjs
bt slaqtul.mwlojployntpl.mwl.abl.tleahdplialojplxutonl.tuladpl.touslya;
ojplrmjoddklsadpl.mwlsalialaj,lojpluhmjl.mwytdrlojplxumjil.tuliuokl.omuy
bms.lyauuablsals.tliuoqt,lraulmslboyljalhytlraul.tulsalsuklojklwautc
S.mylboylbauytls.ojlols.ahyojplb.m  mjiy,lojplSaw'yl.touslboylyautuljab
s.ojl.mylxapkcl.tleumtp,l.tl dtoptplraulrauimqtjtyy,l uawmytplsalutrauw
aqtulojplaqtuloiomj,lojpls.tjlutetmqtpl.mylpmywmyyod,lrttdmjils.os
.tl.oplbajlxhslojlmw turteslrauimqtjtyylojpltysoxdmy.tplxhslolrttxdt
eajrmptjetc

.tldtrsls.tl utytjetlsaalwmytuoxdtlsaltqtjlrttdlutqtjitrhdlsaboup
Ymp;lojplyals.tldosstu'yl uaw slutsutosls.uahi.ls.tlxoenliostlboy
hjjtetyyoukcl.tlwa tplsalye.aadlidaawklojplyop,lojplsaanl.mylrdaiimji,
odajilbms.lVatl.ou tu,lraul dokmjil.aantkls.tlpoklxtraut,lbms.ls.t
omularlajtlb.aytl.touslboylxhyklbms.l.toqmtulbatylojplb.addklptoplsa
sumrdtyclS.tjl.tlxtsaanl.mwytdrlsal.mylytos,lutystpl.myltdxabylajl.my
ptynlojpl.mylvobylmjl.myl.ojpy,lojplysoutplosls.tlboddlbms.ls.tlysajk
ysoutlarlyhrrtumjils.osl.oylutoe.tpls.tldmwmslojpleojljalrhus.tuliac
.myltdxablboyl utyymjiloiomjyslyawtl.ouplyhxysojetclOrstuloldajilsmwt
.tlydabdklojplyopdkle.ojitpl.myl aymsmaj,lojplsaanlh ls.mylaxvteslbms.
olymi.clMslboylmjlol o tucl.tlhjuaddtplmsclOldaji,ldmjitumji,leadayyod
ymi.lraddabtp,lojpl.myl.touslxuantclMslboyl.mylxuoyylojpmuajlnjax!

S.mylrmjodlrtos.tulxuantls.tleowtd'ylxoenc




E.O STUlZM

EDAYTlh ajls.tl.ahularljaajls.tlb.adtlqmddoitlboylyhpptjdkltdtesumrmtp
bms.ls.tli.oysdkljtbyclJaljttplarls.tloylktslhj-putowtp-arlstdtiuo .;
s.tlsodtlrdtblruawlwojlsalwoj,lruawliuah lsaliuah ,lruawl.ahytlsal.ahyt,
bms.ldmssdtldtyyls.ojlstdtiuo .mely ttpclArleahuytls.tlye.aadwoystulioqt
.adm-poklrauls.oslorstujaaj;ls.tlsabjlbahdpl.oqtls.ahi.slysuojitdklar
.mwlmrl.tl.opljasc

Oliauklnjmrtl.oplxttjlrahjpledaytlsals.tlwhuptutplwoj,lojplmsl.oplxttj
uteaijmftplxklyawtxapkloylxtdajimjilsalWhrrl asstu--yals.tlysaukluojclOjp
mslboylyompls.oslolxtdostplemsmftjl.opleawtlh ajl asstulboy.mjil.mwytdr
mjls.tl“xuoje.”loxahslajtlaulsbala'edaenlmjls.tlwaujmji,lojpls.osl asstu
.oploslajetlyjtontplarr--yhy memahylemuehwysojety,lty temoddkls.tlboy.mji
b.me.lboyljaslol.oxmslbms.l asstuclMslboylodyalyompls.osls.tlsabjl.op
xttjluojyoentplrauls.myl“whuptutu”l(s.tl hxdmeloutljaslydablmjls.t
wosstularlymrsmjiltqmptjetlojplouumqmjiloslolqtupmes),lxhsls.osl.t
eahdpljaslxtlrahjpcl.auytwtjl.oplpt oustplpabjloddls.tluaopylmjltqtuk
pmutesmaj,lojpls.tlY.tumrrl“boyleajrmptjs”ls.osl.tlbahdplxtleo shutp
xtrautljmi.sc

Oddls.tlsabjlboylpumrsmjilsaboupls.tliuoqtkoupclSaw'yl.tousxuton
qojmy.tplojpl.tlvamjtpls.tl uaetyymaj,ljaslxteohytl.tlbahdpljas
ols.ahyojplsmwtyluos.tulialojkb.tutltdyt,lxhslxteohytlojlobrhd,
hjoeeahjsoxdtlroyemjosmajlputbl.mwlajclOuumqtplosls.tlputoprhdl doet,l.t
bauwtpl.mylywoddlxapkls.uahi.ls.tleuabplojplyobls.tlpmywodly tesoedtc
Mslyttwtplsal.mwlojloitlymjetl.tlboyls.tutlxtrautclYawtxapkl mje.tp
.mylouwcl.tlshujtp,lojpl.myltktylwtsl.hendtxtuuk'yclS.tjlxas.ldaantp
tdytb.tutloslajet,lojplbajptutplmrlojkxapkl.opljasmetplojks.mjilmjls.tmu
whshodlidojetclXhsltqtukxapklboylsodnmji,lojplmjstjslh ajls.tliumydk
y tesoedtlxtrautls.twc

“ aaulrtddab!”l“ aaulkahjilrtddab!”l“S.mylahi.slsalxtloldtyyajlsaliuoqt
uaxxtuy!”l“Whrrl asstu'ddl.ojilrauls.mylmrls.tkleose.l.mw!”lS.mylboyls.t
pumrslarlutwoun;lojpls.tlwmjmystulyomp,l“Mslboylolvhpiwtjs;l.myl.ojplmy
.tutc”

JablSawly.mqtutplruawl.toplsal.ttd;lraul.myltktlrtddlh ajls.tlysadmp
roetlarlMjvhjlVatclOsls.mylwawtjsls.tleuabplxtiojlsalyboklojplysuhiidt,
ojplqametyly.ahstp,l“Ms'yl.mw!lms'yl.mw!l.t'yleawmjil.mwytdr!”

“B.a?lB.a?”lruawlsbtjsklqametyc

“Whrrl asstu!”

“.odda,l.t'ylysa  tp!--Daanlahs,l.t'ylshujmji!lPaj'sldtsl.mwlitslobok!”

 ta dtlmjls.tlxuoje.tylarls.tlsuttylaqtulSaw'yl.toplyompl.tlboyj's
sukmjilsalitslobok--.tlajdkldaantplpahxsrhdlojpl tu dtztpc

“Mjrtujodlmw hptjet!”lyomplolxkysojptu;l“bojstplsaleawtlojplsontlolghmts
daanlosl.mylbaun,lMlutenaj--pmpj'sltz teslojkleaw ojkc”

S.tleuabplrtddlo ous,ljab,lojpls.tlY.tumrrleowtls.uahi.,laystjsosmahydk
dtopmjil asstulxkls.tlouwclS.tl aaulrtddab'ylroetlboyl.oiioup,lojp
.myltktyly.abtpls.tlrtouls.oslboylh ajl.mwclB.tjl.tlysaaplxtrautls.t
whuptutplwoj,l.tly.aanloylbms.lol odyk,lojpl.tl hsl.mylroetlmjl.myl.ojpy
ojplxhuyslmjsalstouyc

“Mlpmpj'slpalms,lrumtjpy,”l.tlyaxxtp;l“' ajlwklbauplojpl.ajaulMljtqtu
pajtlmsc”

“B.a'yloeehytplkah?”ly.ahstplolqametc

S.myly.aslyttwtplsaleouukl.awtcl asstuldmrstpl.mylroetlojpldaantplouahjp
.mwlbms.lol os.tsmel.a tdtyyjtyylmjl.myltktycl.tlyoblMjvhjlVat,lojp
tzedomwtp:

“A.,lMjvhjlVat,lkahl uawmytplwtlkah'pljtqtu--”

“Myls.oslkahulnjmrt?”lojplmslboyls.uhyslxtrautl.mwlxkls.tlY.tumrrc

 asstulbahdpl.oqtlroddtjlmrls.tkl.opljasleohi.sl.mwlojpltoytpl.mwlsals.t
iuahjpclS.tjl.tlyomp:

“Yawts.mjilsadplwtl'slmrlMlpmpj'sleawtlxoenlojplits--”l.tly.hpptutp;ls.tj
boqtpl.myljtuqtdtyyl.ojplbms.lolqojghmy.tplityshutlojplyomp,l“Stddl'tw,
Vat,lstddl'tw--mslomj'slojklhytlojklwautc”

S.tjl.hendtxtuuklojplSawlysaaplphwxlojplysoumji,lojpl.toupls.t
ysajk-.toustpldmouluttdlarrl.mylytutjtlysostwtjs,ls.tkltz tesmjiltqtuk
wawtjsls.osls.tledtoulynklbahdplptdmqtulIap'yldmi.sjmjiylh ajl.myl.top,
ojplbajptumjilsalyttl.abldajils.tlysuantlboylptdoktpclOjplb.tjl.tl.op
rmjmy.tplojplysmddlysaaplodmqtlojplb.adt,ls.tmulboqtumjilmw hdytlsa
xutonls.tmulaos.lojplyoqtls.tl aaulxtsuoktpl umyajtu'yldmrtlroptplojp
qojmy.tplobok,lraul domjdkls.mylwmyeutojsl.oplyadpl.mwytdrlsalYosojlojp
mslbahdplxtlrosodlsalwtppdtlbms.ls.tl ua tusklarlyhe.lol abtuloyls.osc

“B.klpmpj'slkahldtoqt?lB.oslpmplkahlbojslsaleawtl.tutlrau?”lyawtxapk
yompc

“Mleahdpj'sl.td lms--Mleahdpj'sl.td lms,”l asstulwaojtpcl“Mlbojstplsa
uhjlobok,lxhslMleahdpj'slyttwlsaleawtlojkb.tutlxhsl.tutc”lOjpl.tlrtddlsa
yaxxmjiloiomjc

MjvhjlVatlut tostpl.mylysostwtjs,lvhysloyleodwdk,lolrtblwmjhsty
orstubouplajls.tlmjghtys,lhjptulaos.;lojpls.tlxaky,lyttmjils.osls.t
dmi.sjmjiylbtutlysmddlbms..tdp,lbtutleajrmuwtplmjls.tmulxtdmtrls.os
Vatl.oplyadpl.mwytdrlsals.tlptqmdcl.tlboyljablxteawt,lsals.tw,ls.tlways
xodtrhddklmjstutysmjilaxvtesls.tkl.opltqtuldaantplh aj,lojpls.tkleahdp
jaslsontls.tmulroyemjostpltktylruawl.mylroetc

S.tklmjboupdklutyadqtplsalbose.l.mwljmi.sy,lb.tjla  aushjmskly.ahdp
arrtu,lmjls.tl.a tlarlitssmjilolidmw ytlarl.mylputoplwoystuc

MjvhjlVatl.td tplsaluomytls.tlxapklarls.tlwhuptutplwojlojpl hslmslmj
olboiajlraulutwaqod;lojplmslboylb.my tutpls.uahi.ls.tly.hpptumji
euabpls.osls.tlbahjplxdtploldmssdt!lS.tlxakyls.ahi.sls.osls.myl.o  k
emuehwysojetlbahdplshujlyhy memajlmjls.tlumi.slpmutesmaj;lxhsls.tklbtut
pmyo  amjstp,lraulwautls.ojlajtlqmddoitulutwountp:

“Mslboylbms.mjls.uttlrttslarlWhrrl asstulb.tjlmslpajtlmsc”

Saw'ylrtourhdlyteutslojplijobmjileajyemtjetlpmyshuxtpl.mylydtt lrauloy
whe.loylolbttnlorstuls.my;lojploslxutonroyslajtlwaujmjilYmplyomp:

“Saw,lkahl mse.louahjplojplsodnlmjlkahulydtt lyalwhe.ls.oslkahlntt lwt
obontl.odrls.tlsmwtc”

Sawlxdoje.tplojplpua  tpl.myltktyc

“Ms'ylolxoplymij,”lyomplOhjsl addk,liuoqtdkcl“B.oslkahliaslajlkahulwmjp,
Saw?”

“Jas.mjiclJas.mjil'slMlnjablarc”lXhsls.tlxak'yl.ojply.aanlyals.osl.t
y mddtpl.mylearrttc

“Ojplkahlpalsodnlyhe.lyshrr,”lYmplyompcl“Doysljmi.slkahlyomp,l'Ms'y
xdaap,lms'ylxdaap,ls.os'ylb.oslmslmy!'lKahlyompls.oslaqtulojplaqtuc
Ojplkahlyomp,l'Paj'slsauwtjslwtlya--M'ddlstdd!'lStddl_b.os_?lB.oslmylms
kah'ddlstdd?”

Tqtuks.mjilboylybmwwmjilxtrautlSawclS.tutlmyljalstddmjilb.oslwmi.sl.oqt
.o  tjtp,ljab,lxhsldhenmdkls.tleajetujl oyytplahslarlOhjsl addk'ylroet
ojply.tleowtlsalSaw'ylutdmtrlbms.ahslnjabmjilmsclY.tlyomp:

“Y.a!lMs'yls.oslputoprhdlwhuptuclMlputowloxahslmslwaysltqtukljmi.s
wkytdrclYawtsmwtylMlputowlms'ylwtls.oslpajtlmsc”

Wouklyomply.tl.oplxttjlorrtestplwhe.ls.tlyowtlbokclYmplyttwtplyosmyrmtpc
Sawliaslahslarls.tl utytjetloylghmenloyl.tl dohymxdkleahdp,lojplorstu
s.osl.tleaw domjtplarlsaas.oe.tlraulolbttn,lojplsmtplh l.mylvobyltqtuk
jmi.scl.tljtqtulnjtbls.oslYmpldokljmi.sdklbose.mji,lojplrutghtjsdk
ydm  tpls.tlxojpoitlruttlojpls.tjldtojtplajl.myltdxabldmystjmjiloliaap
b.mdtloslolsmwt,lojplorstubouplydm  tpls.tlxojpoitlxoenlsalmsyl doet
oiomjclSaw'ylpmysutyylarlwmjplbautlarrliuophoddklojpls.tlsaas.oe.tliutb
munyawtlojplboylpmyeouptpclMrlYmplutoddklwojoitplsalwontlojks.mjilahslar
Saw'ylpmyvamjstplwhsstumjiy,l.tlnt slmslsal.mwytdrc

MslyttwtplsalSawls.osl.mylye.aadwostyljtqtulbahdplitslpajtl.adpmji
mjghtysylajlptopleosy,lojpls.hylntt mjil.mylsuahxdtl utytjslsal.mylwmjpc
Ympljasmetpls.oslSawljtqtulboyleauajtuloslajtlarls.tytlmjghmumty,
s.ahi.lmsl.oplxttjl.myl.oxmslsalsontls.tldtoplmjloddljtbltjstu umyty;
.tljasmetp,lsaa,ls.oslSawljtqtuloestploylolbmsjtyy--ojpls.oslboylysuojit;
ojplYmplpmpljaslaqtudaanls.tlroesls.oslSawltqtjly.abtplolwountploqtuymaj
sals.tytlmjghtysy,lojplodbokyloqamptpls.twlb.tjl.tleahdpclYmplwouqtddtp,
xhslyompljas.mjicl.abtqtu,ltqtjlmjghtysylbtjslahslarlqaihtlosldoys,lojp
etoytplsalsaushutlSaw'yleajyemtjetc

Tqtuklpoklaulsba,lphumjils.mylsmwtlarlyauuab,lSawlbose.tpl.my
a  aushjmsklojplbtjslsals.tldmssdtliuostplvomd-bmjpablojplywhiidtplyhe.
ywoddleawrausyls.uahi.lsals.tl“whuptutu”loyl.tleahdplitsl.adplarclS.t
vomdlboylolsumrdmjildmssdtlxumenlptjls.oslysaaplmjlolwouy.losls.tltpit
arls.tlqmddoit,lojpljalihoupylbtutlorrauptplraulms;lmjpttp,lms
boylytdpawlaeeh mtpclS.tytlarrtumjiyliutosdkl.td tplsaltoytlSaw'y
eajyemtjetc

S.tlqmddoituyl.oplolysuajilptymutlsalsou-ojp-rtos.tulMjvhjlVatlojplumpt
.mwlajloluomd,lraulxapk-yjose.mji,lxhslyalrauwmpoxdtlboyl.myle.ouoestu
s.osljaxapkleahdplxtlrahjplb.alboylbmddmjilsalsontls.tldtoplmjls.t
wosstu,lyalmslboylpua  tpcl.tl.oplxttjleoutrhdlsalxtimjlxas.larl.my
mjghtys-ysostwtjsylbms.ls.tlrmi.s,lbms.ahsleajrtyymjils.tliuoqt-uaxxtuk
s.osl utetptplms;ls.tutrautlmslboylpttwtplbmytysljaslsalsukls.tleoytlmj
s.tleahusylosl utytjsc




E.O STUlZMM

AJTlarls.tlutoyajylb.klSaw'ylwmjpl.oplpumrstploboklruawlmsylyteuts
suahxdtylboy,ls.oslmsl.oplrahjploljtblojplbtmi.sklwosstulsalmjstutys
msytdrloxahsclXtenklS.ose.tul.oplysa  tpleawmjilsalye.aadclSawl.op
ysuhiidtplbms.l.myl umptlolrtblpoky,lojplsumtplsal“b.mysdtl.tulpabjls.t
bmjp,”lxhslromdtpcl.tlxtiojlsalrmjpl.mwytdrl.ojimjilouahjpl.tulros.tu'y
.ahyt,ljmi.sy,lojplrttdmjilqtuklwmytuoxdtclY.tlboylmddclB.oslmrly.t
y.ahdplpmt!lS.tutlboylpmysuoesmajlmjls.tls.ahi.scl.tljaldajitulsaanloj
mjstutyslmjlbou,ljaultqtjlmjl muoekclS.tle.ouwlarldmrtlboyliajt;ls.tut
boyljas.mjilxhslputoumjtyyldtrscl.tl hsl.myl.aa lobok,lojpl.mylxos;
s.tutlboyljalvaklmjls.twlojklwautcl.mylohjslboyleajetujtpclY.tlxtiojlsa
sukloddlwojjtularlutwtpmtylajl.mwclY.tlboylajtlarls.aytl ta dtlb.a
outlmjroshostplbms.l ostjslwtpmemjtylojploddljtb-rojidtplwts.apylar
 uaphemjil.tods.laulwtjpmjilmsclY.tlboylojlmjqtstuostltz tumwtjstulmj
s.tytls.mjiyclB.tjlyawts.mjilruty.lmjls.myldmjtleowtlahsly.tlboylmjlo
rtqtu,lumi.slobok,lsalsuklms;ljaslajl.tuytdr,lrauly.tlboyljtqtulomdmji,
xhslajlojkxapkltdytls.osleowtl.ojpkclY.tlboylolyhxyeumxtulrauloddls.t
“.tods.”l tumapmeodylojpl .utjadaimeodlruohpy;lojpls.tlyadtwjlmijauojet
s.tklbtutlmjrdostplbms.lboylxutos.lsal.tuljaysumdyclOddls.tl“uas”ls.tk
eajsomjtploxahslqtjsmdosmaj,lojpl.ablsalialsalxtp,lojpl.ablsalitslh ,
ojplb.oslsaltos,lojplb.oslsalpumjn,lojpl.ablwhe.ltztuemytlsalsont,lojp
b.oslruowtlarlwmjplsalntt lajt'ylytdrlmj,lojplb.oslyauslarledas.mji
salbtou,lboyloddliay tdlsal.tu,lojply.tljtqtulaxytuqtpls.osl.tu
.tods.-vahujodylarls.tlehuutjslwajs.lehysawoumdklh ytsltqtuks.mjils.tk
.opluteawwtjptpls.tlwajs.lxtrautclY.tlboyloylymw dt-.toustplojpl.ajtys
oyls.tlpoklboyldaji,lojplyaly.tlboylojltoyklqmesmwclY.tlios.tutp
saits.tul.tulghoenl tumapmeodylojpl.tulghoenlwtpmemjty,lojpls.hylouwtp
bms.lptos.,lbtjsloxahslajl.tul odtl.auyt,lwtso .aumeoddkly tonmji,lbms.
“.tddlraddabmjilorstuc”lXhsly.tljtqtulyhy testpls.osly.tlboyljasloj
ojitdlarl.todmjilojpls.tlxodwlarlImdtoplmjlpmyihmyt,lsals.tlyhrrtumji
jtmi.xauyc

S.tlbostulsutoswtjslboyljtb,ljab,lojplSaw'yldableajpmsmajlboylolbmjprodd
sal.tuclY.tl.opl.mwlahsloslpokdmi.sltqtuklwaujmji,lysaapl.mwlh lmjls.t
baap-y.tplojplpuabjtpl.mwlbms.lolptdhitlarleadplbostu;ls.tjly.tlyeuhxxtp
.mwlpabjlbms.lolsabtdldmntlolrmdt,lojplyalxuahi.sl.mwlsa;ls.tjly.t
uaddtpl.mwlh lmjlolbtsly.ttslojpl hsl.mwloboklhjptulxdojntsylsmddly.t
ybtostpl.mylyahdledtojlojpl“s.tlktddablysomjylarlmsleowtls.uahi.l.my
 auty”--oylSawlyompc

Ktsljasbms.ysojpmjiloddls.my,ls.tlxakliutblwautlojplwautlwtdoje.adklojp
 odtlojplptvtestpclY.tlopptpl.aslxos.y,lymsflxos.y,ly.abtulxos.y,lojp
 dhjityclS.tlxaklutwomjtploylpmywodloylol.touytclY.tlxtiojlsaloyymysls.t
bostulbms.lolydmwlaoswtodlpmtslojplxdmystu- doystuyclY.tleodehdostpl.my
eo oemskloyly.tlbahdplolvhi'y,lojplrmddtpl.mwlh ltqtuklpoklbms.lghoen
ehut-oddyc

Sawl.oplxteawtlmjpmrrtutjslsal tuytehsmajlxkls.mylsmwtclS.myl .oyt
rmddtpls.tladpldopk'yl.touslbms.leajystujosmajclS.mylmjpmrrtutjetlwhys
xtlxuantjlh loslojkleaysclJably.tl.touplarl omj-nmddtulrauls.tlrmuys
smwtclY.tlauptutploldasloslajetclY.tlsoystplmslojplboylrmddtplbms.
iuosmshptclMslboylymw dklrmutlmjloldmghmplrauwclY.tlpua  tpls.tlbostu
sutoswtjslojpltqtuks.mjiltdyt,lojpl mjjtpl.tulroms.lsal omj-nmddtuc
Y.tlioqtlSawlolstoy aajrhdlojplbose.tplbms.ls.tlptt tyslojzmtsklrauls.t
utyhdscl.tulsuahxdtylbtutlmjysojsdkloslutys,l.tulyahdlosl toetloiomj;
rauls.tl“mjpmrrtutjet”lboylxuantjlh clS.tlxakleahdpljasl.oqtly.abjlo
bmdptu,l.tousmtulmjstutys,lmrly.tl.oplxhmdslolrmutlhjptul.mwc

Sawlrtdsls.oslmslboylsmwtlsalbontlh ;ls.mylyauslarldmrtlwmi.slxt
uawojsmeltjahi.,lmjl.mylxdmi.stpleajpmsmaj,lxhslmslboylitssmjilsal.oqt
saaldmssdtlytjsmwtjslojplsaalwhe.lpmysuoesmjilqoumtskloxahslmsclYal.t
s.ahi.slaqtulqoumahyl dojylraulutdmtr,lojplrmjoddkl.mslh ajls.oslar
 uartyymjilsalxtlrajplarl omj-nmddtucl.tloyntplraulmslyalarstjls.osl.t
xteowtloljhmyojet,lojpl.mylohjsltjptplxklstddmjil.mwlsal.td l.mwytdrlojp
ghmslxas.tumjil.tuclMrlmsl.oplxttjlYmp,ly.tlbahdpl.oqtl.opljalwmyimqmjiy
saloddakl.tulptdmi.s;lxhslymjetlmslboylSaw,ly.tlbose.tpls.tlxassdt
edojptysmjtdkclY.tlrahjpls.osls.tlwtpmemjtlpmplutoddklpmwmjmy.,lxhslms
pmpljaslaeehulsal.tuls.osls.tlxaklboylwtjpmjils.tl.tods.larloleuoenlmj
s.tlymssmji-uaawlrdaaulbms.lmsc

AjtlpoklSawlboylmjls.tloeslarlpaymjils.tleuoenlb.tjl.mylohjs'ylktddab
eosleowtlodaji,l huumji,ltktmjils.tlstoy aajloqoumemahydk,lojplxtiimji
raulolsoystclSawlyomp:

“Paj'sloynlraulmslhjdtyylkahlbojslms,l tstuc”

Xhsl tstulymijmrmtpls.osl.tlpmplbojslmsc

“Kahlxtsstulwontlyhutc”

 tstulboylyhutc

“Jablkah'qtloyntplraulms,lojplM'ddlimqtlmslsalkah,lxteohytls.tutlomj's
ojks.mjilwtojloxahslwt;lxhslmrlkahlrmjplkahlpaj'sldmntlms,lkahlwhysj's
xdowtlojkxapklxhslkahulabjlytdrc”

 tstulboyloiuttoxdtclYalSawl umtpl.mylwahs.la tjlojpl ahutplpabj
s.tl omj-nmddtucl tstuly uojiloleah dtlarlkoupylmjls.tlomu,lojpls.tj
ptdmqtutplolbou-b.aa lojplytslarrluahjplojpluahjpls.tluaaw,lxojimji
oiomjyslrhujmshut,lh ytssmjilrdabtu- asy,lojplwonmjilitjtuodl.oqaeclJtzs
.tluaytlajl.myl.mjplrttslojpl uojetplouahjp,lmjlolrutjfklarltjvakwtjs,
bms.l.myl.toplaqtul.myly.ahdptulojpl.mylqametl uaedomwmjil.my
hjo  toyoxdtl.o  mjtyyclS.tjl.tlbtjslstoumjilouahjpls.tl.ahytloiomj
y utopmjile.oaylojplptysuhesmajlmjl.myl os.clOhjsl addkltjstutplmjlsmwt
salyttl.mwls.uablolrtblpahxdtlyhwwtuytsy,lptdmqtulolrmjodlwmi.skl.huuo.,
ojplyomdls.uahi.ls.tla tjlbmjpab,leouukmjils.tlutyslarls.tlrdabtu- asy
bms.l.mwclS.tladpldopklysaapl tsumrmtplbms.loysajmy.wtjs,l ttumjilaqtu
.tulidoyyty;lSawldoklajls.tlrdaaultz mumjilbms.ldohi.stuc

“Saw,lb.oslajltous.lomdyls.osleos?”

“Mlpaj'slnjab,lohjs,”lioy tpls.tlxakc

“B.k,lMljtqtulyttlojks.mjildmntlmsclB.oslpmplwontl.mwloeslya?”

“PttplMlpaj'slnjab,lOhjsl addk;leosylodbokyloeslyalb.tjls.tk'utl.oqmjilo
iaaplsmwtc”

“S.tklpa,lpals.tk?”lS.tutlboylyawts.mjilmjls.tlsajtls.oslwoptlSaw
o  ut.tjymqtc

“Kty'wclS.oslmy,lMlxtdmtqtls.tklpac”

“Kahl_pa_?”

“Kty'wc”

S.tladpldopklboylxtjpmjilpabj,lSawlbose.mji,lbms.lmjstutysltw .oymftp
xklojzmtskclSaaldostl.tlpmqmjtpl.tul“pumrsc”lS.tl.ojpdtlarls.tlstddsodt
sto-y aajlboylqmymxdtlhjptuls.tlxtp-qodojetclOhjsl addklsaanlms,l.tdplms
h clSawlbmjetp,lojplpua  tpl.myltktyclOhjsl addkluomytpl.mwlxkls.tlhyhod
.ojpdt--.myltou--ojpleuoentpl.myl.toplyahjpdklbms.l.tuls.mwxdtc

“Jab,lymu,lb.oslpmplkahlbojslsalsutosls.osl aaulphwxlxtoyslya,lrau?”

“Mlpajtlmslahslarl msklraul.mw--xteohytl.tl.opj'slojklohjsc”

“.opj'slojklohjs!--kahljhwynhddclB.osl.oyls.osliaslsalpalbms.lms?”

“.to yclXteohytlmrl.t'pl.oplajtly.t'plolxhujsl.mwlahsl.tuytdr!lY.t'plo
uaoystpl.mylxabtdylahslarl.mwl's.ahslojklwautlrttdmjils.ojlmrl.tlboylo
.hwoj!”

Ohjsl addklrtdslolyhpptjl ojilarlutwauytclS.mylboyl hssmjils.tls.mjilmj
oljtbldmi.s;lb.oslboyleuhtdsklsaloleosl_wmi.s_lxtleuhtdsklsalolxak,lsaac
Y.tlxtiojlsalyarstj;ly.tlrtdslyauukcl.tultktylbostutploldmssdt,lojply.t
 hsl.tul.ojplajlSaw'yl.toplojplyomplitjsdk:

“Mlboylwtojmjilrauls.tlxtys,lSawclOjp,lSaw,lmsl_pmp_lpalkahliaapc”

Sawldaantplh lmjl.tulroetlbms.lvhyslol tuet smxdtlsbmjndtl tt mji
s.uahi.l.myliuoqmskc

“Mlnjablkahlboylwtojmjilrauls.tlxtys,lohjsk,lojplyalboylMlbms.l tstuclMs
pajtl_.mw_liaap,lsaaclMljtqtulyttl.mwlitslouahjplyalymjet--”

“A.,lial'dajilbms.lkah,lSaw,lxtrautlkahloiiuoqostlwtloiomjclOjplkahlsuk
ojplyttlmrlkahleoj'slxtloliaaplxak,lraulajet,lojplkahljttpj'slsontlojk
wautlwtpmemjtc”

Sawlutoe.tplye.aadlo.toplarlsmwtclMslboyljasmetpls.osls.mylysuojitls.mji
.oplxttjlaeehuumjiltqtuklpokldosstudkclOjpljab,loylhyhodlarldost,
.tl.hjiloxahsls.tliostlarls.tlye.aadkouplmjystoplarl dokmjilbms.l.my
eawuoptycl.tlboylymen,l.tlyomp,lojpl.tldaantplmscl.tlsumtplsalyttwlsa
xtldaanmjiltqtukb.tutlxhslb.ms.tul.tlutoddklboyldaanmji--pabjls.tluaopc
 utytjsdklVtrrlS.ose.tul.aqtlmjlymi.s,lojplSaw'ylroetldmi.stp;l.tlioftp
olwawtjs,lojpls.tjlshujtplyauuabrhddklobokclB.tjlVtrrlouumqtp,lSaw
oeeaystpl.mw;lojpl“dtplh ”lboumdklsala  aushjmsmtylraulutwounloxahs
Xtenk,lxhsls.tlimppkldopljtqtuleahdplyttls.tlxomsclSawlbose.tplojp
bose.tp,l.a mjilb.tjtqtulolrumynmjilruaenleowtlmjlymi.s,lojpl.osmjils.t
abjtularlmsloylyaajloyl.tlyobly.tlboyljasls.tlumi.slajtclOsldoyslruaeny
etoytplsalo  tou,lojpl.tlpua  tpl.a tdtyydklmjsals.tlphw y;l.tltjstutp
s.tltw sklye.aad.ahytlojplyoslpabjlsalyhrrtuclS.tjlajtlwautlruaenl oyytp
mjlosls.tliost,lojplSaw'yl.touslioqtloliutoslxahjpclS.tljtzslmjysojsl.t
boylahs,lojpl“iamjilaj”ldmntlojlMjpmoj;lktddmji,ldohi.mji,le.oymjilxaky,
vhw mjilaqtuls.tlrtjetloslumynlarldmrtlojpldmwx,ls.uabmjil.ojpy umjiy,
ysojpmjilajl.myl.top--pamjiloddls.tl.tuamels.mjiyl.tleahdpleajetmqtlar,
ojplntt mjilolrhusmqtltktlahs,loddls.tlb.mdt,lsalyttlmrlXtenklS.ose.tu
boyljasmemjiclXhsly.tlyttwtplsalxtlhjeajyemahylarlmslodd;ly.tljtqtu
daantpclEahdplmslxtl ayymxdtls.osly.tlboyljasloboutls.osl.tlboyls.tut?
.tleouumtpl.myltz damsylsal.tulmwwtpmostlqmemjmsk;leowtlbou-b.aa mji
ouahjp,lyjose.tplolxak'yleo ,l.hudtplmslsals.tluaarlarls.tlye.aad.ahyt,
xuantls.uahi.loliuah larlxaky,lshwxdmjils.twlmjltqtuklpmutesmaj,lojp
rtddly uobdmji,l.mwytdr,lhjptulXtenk'yljayt,lodwayslh ytssmjil.tu--ojp
y.tlshujtp,lbms.l.tuljaytlmjls.tlomu,lojpl.tl.toupl.tulyok:l“Wr!lyawt
 ta dtls.mjnls.tk'utlwmi.sklywous--odbokyly.abmjilarr!”

Saw'yle.ttnylxhujtpcl.tlios.tutpl.mwytdrlh lojplyjtontplarr,leuhy.tplojp
eutysroddtjc




E.O STUlZMMM

SAW'Ylwmjplboylwoptlh ljabcl.tlboylidaawklojplpty tuostcl.tlboylo
rauyontj,lrumtjpdtyylxak,l.tlyomp;ljaxapkldaqtpl.mw;lb.tjls.tklrahjplahs
b.osls.tkl.oplpumqtjl.mwlsa,l tu.o yls.tklbahdplxtlyauuk;l.tl.oplsumtp
salpalumi.slojplitslodaji,lxhsls.tklbahdpljasldtsl.mw;lymjetljas.mji
bahdplpals.twlxhslsalxtlumplarl.mw,ldtslmslxtlya;lojpldtsls.twlxdowt
_.mw_lrauls.tleajytghtjety--b.kly.ahdpj'sls.tk?lB.oslumi.sl.opls.t
rumtjpdtyylsaleaw domj?lKty,ls.tkl.oplrauetpl.mwlsalmslosldoys:l.tlbahdp
dtoploldmrtlarleumwtclS.tutlboyljale.ametc

Xkls.mylsmwtl.tlboylroulpabjlWtopablDojt,lojpls.tlxtddlraulye.aadlsa
“sontlh ”lsmjndtplromjsdklh ajl.myltoucl.tlyaxxtp,ljab,lsals.mjnl.t
y.ahdpljtqtu,ljtqtul.touls.osladplrowmdmoulyahjplojklwaut--mslboylqtuk
.oup,lxhslmslboylrauetplajl.mw;lymjetl.tlboylpumqtjlahslmjsals.tleadp
baudp,l.tlwhyslyhxwms--xhsl.tlrauioqtls.twclS.tjls.tlyaxyleowtls.menlojp
roysc

Vhyslosls.myl amjsl.tlwtsl.mylyahd'ylybaujleawuopt,lVat
.ou tu--.oup-tktp,lojplbms.ltqmptjsdkloliutoslojplpmywodl hu aytlmjl.my
.touscl domjdkl.tutlbtutl“sbalyahdylbms.lxhslolymjidtls.ahi.sc”lSaw,
bm mjil.myltktylbms.l.mylydttqt,lxtiojlsalxdhxxtulahslyawts.mjiloxahs
olutyadhsmajlsaltyeo tlruawl.ouplhyoitlojpldoenlarlykw os.klosl.awtlxk
uaowmjiloxuaoplmjsals.tliutoslbaudpljtqtulsalutshuj;lojpltjptplxkl.a mji
s.oslVatlbahdpljaslrauitsl.mwc

Xhslmslsuojy mutpls.osls.mylboylolutghtyslb.me.lVatl.oplvhyslxttjliamji
salwontlarlSaw,lojpl.opleawtlsal.hjsl.mwlh lrauls.osl hu aytcl.mylwas.tu
.oplb.m  tpl.mwlraulpumjnmjilyawtleutowlb.me.l.tl.opljtqtulsoystplojp
njtbljas.mjiloxahs;lmslboyl domjls.osly.tlboylsmutplarl.mwlojplbmy.tp
.mwlsalia;lmrly.tlrtdsls.oslbok,ls.tutlboyljas.mjilraul.mwlsalpalxhs
yheehwx;l.tl.a tply.tlbahdplxtl.o  k,lojpljtqtulutiutsl.oqmjilpumqtjl.tu
 aaulxaklahslmjsals.tlhjrttdmjilbaudplsalyhrrtulojplpmtc

Oyls.tlsbalxakylbodntplyauuabmjilodaji,ls.tklwoptloljtbleaw oeslsalysojp
xkltoe.las.tulojplxtlxuas.tuylojpljtqtulyt ouostlsmddlptos.lutdmtqtp
s.twlarls.tmulsuahxdtyclS.tjls.tklxtiojlsaldokls.tmul dojyclVatlboylrau
xtmjilol.tuwms,lojpldmqmjilajleuhysylmjlolutwastleoqt,lojplpkmji,
yawtlsmwt,larleadplojplbojslojpliumtr;lxhslorstuldmystjmjilsalSaw,l.t
eajetptpls.osls.tutlbtutlyawtleajy mehahylopqojsoityloxahsloldmrtlar
eumwt,lojplyal.tleajytjstplsalxtlol muostc

S.uttlwmdtylxtdablYscl tstuyxhui,loslol amjslb.tutls.tlWmyymyym  mlUmqtu
boylolsumrdtlaqtulolwmdtlbmpt,ls.tutlboyloldaji,ljouuab,lbaaptplmydojp,
bms.loly.oddablxoulosls.tl.toplarlms,lojpls.mylarrtutplbtddloylo
utjptfqahyclMslboyljaslmj.oxmstp;lmsldoklroulaqtulsaboupls.tlrhus.tu
y.aut,loxutoyslolptjytlojplodwayslb.addklhj ta dtplrautysclYalVoenyaj'y
Mydojplboyle.aytjclB.albtutlsalxtls.tlyhxvtesylarls.tmul muoemtylboylo
wosstuls.oslpmpljaslaeehulsals.twclS.tjls.tkl.hjstplh l.hendtxtuuklRmjj,
ojpl.tlvamjtpls.twl uaw sdk,lrauloddleouttuylbtutlajtlsal.mw;l.tlboy
mjpmrrtutjsclS.tkl utytjsdklyt ouostplsalwttslosloldajtdkly aslajls.t
umqtu-xojnlsbalwmdtyloxaqtls.tlqmddoitlosls.tlroqaumstl.ahu--b.me.lboy
wmpjmi.sclS.tutlboylolywoddldailuorsls.tutlb.me.ls.tklwtojslsaleo shutc
Toe.lbahdplxumjil.aanylojpldmjty,lojplyhe.l uaqmymajloyl.tleahdplystod
mjls.tlwayslpounlojplwkystumahylbok--oylxteowtlahsdobyclOjplxtrautls.t
orstujaajlboylpajt,ls.tkl.oploddlwojoitplsaltjvakls.tlybttslidauklar
y utopmjils.tlroesls.osl utssklyaajls.tlsabjlbahdpl“.toulyawts.mjic”lOdd
b.aliasls.mylqoihtl.mjslbtutleohsmajtplsal“xtlwhwlojplbomsc”

Oxahslwmpjmi.slSawlouumqtplbms.lolxamdtpl.owlojplolrtblsumrdty,
ojplysa  tplmjlolptjytlhjptuiuabs.lajlolywoddlxdhrrlaqtudaanmjils.t
wttsmji- doetclMslboylysoudmi.s,lojplqtuklysmddclS.tlwmi.sklumqtuldok
dmntlojlaetojloslutysclSawldmystjtplolwawtjs,lxhsljalyahjplpmyshuxtpls.t
ghmtsclS.tjl.tlioqtloldab,lpmysmjeslb.mysdtclMslboylojybtutplruawlhjptu
s.tlxdhrrclSawlb.mysdtplsbmetlwaut;ls.tytlymijodylbtutlojybtutplmjls.t
yowtlbokclS.tjlolihouptplqametlyomp:

“B.aliatyls.tut?”

“SawlYobktu,ls.tlXdoenlOqtjitularls.tlY ojmy.lWomjclJowtlkahuljowtyc”

“.henlRmjjls.tlUtp-.ojptp,lojplVatl.ou tuls.tlStuuaularls.tlYtoyc”lSaw
.oplrhujmy.tpls.tytlsmsdty,lruawl.mylroqaumstldmstuoshutc

“'SmylbtddclImqtls.tleahjstuymijc”

Sbal.aouytlb.my tuylptdmqtutpls.tlyowtlobrhdlbauplymwhdsojtahydklsals.t
xuaapmjiljmi.s:

“_Xdaap_!”

S.tjlSawlshwxdtpl.myl.owlaqtuls.tlxdhrrlojpldtsl.mwytdrlpabjlorstulms,
stoumjilxas.lynmjlojpledas.tylsalyawtltzstjslmjls.tltrrausclS.tutlboy
ojltoyk,leawrausoxdtl os.lodajils.tly.autlhjptuls.tlxdhrr,lxhslmsldoentp
s.tlopqojsoitylarlpmrrmehdsklojplpojitulyalqodhtplxklol muostc

S.tlStuuaularls.tlYtoyl.oplxuahi.slolymptlarlxoeaj,lojpl.oploxahslbauj
.mwytdrlahslbms.litssmjilmsls.tutclRmjjls.tlUtp-.ojptpl.oplysadtjlo
ynmddtslojplolghojsmsklarl.odr-ehutpldtorlsaxoeea,lojpl.oplodyalxuahi.s
olrtbleauj-eaxylsalwontl m tylbms.clXhsljajtlarls.tl muostylywantplau
“e.tbtp”lxhsl.mwytdrclS.tlXdoenlOqtjitularls.tlY ojmy.lWomjlyomplms
bahdpljtqtulpalsalysouslbms.ahslyawtlrmutclS.oslboylolbmytls.ahi.s;
wose.tylbtutl.oupdklnjabjls.tutlmjls.oslpokclS.tklyoblolrmutlywahdptumji
h ajloliutosluorslol.hjputplkoupyloxaqt,lojpls.tklbtjslystods.mdk
s.ms.tulojpl.td tpls.twytdqtylsalole.hjnclS.tklwoptlojlmw aymji
opqtjshutlarlms,lyokmji,l“.mys!”ltqtukljablojpls.tj,lojplyhpptjdk
.odsmjilbms.lrmjitulajldm ;lwaqmjilbms.l.ojpylajlmwoimjouklpoiitu-.mdsy;
ojplimqmjilauptuylmjlpmywodlb.my tuyls.oslmrl“s.tlrat”lysmuutp,lsal“dts
.mwl.oqtlmslsals.tl.mds,”lxteohytl“ptoplwtjlstddljalsodtyc”lS.tklnjtb
btddltjahi.ls.osls.tluorsywtjlbtutloddlpabjlosls.tlqmddoitldokmji
mjlysautylaul.oqmjiloly utt,lxhslysmddls.oslboyljaltzehytlrauls.tmu
eajphesmjils.myls.mjilmjlojlhj muosmeodlbokc

S.tkly.aqtplarr,l utytjsdk,lSawlmjleawwojp,l.henlosls.tlorstulaoulojp
Vatlosls.tlrauboupclSawlysaaplowmpy.m y,lidaawk-xuabtp,lojplbms.lradptp
ouwy,lojplioqtl.mylauptuylmjloldab,lystujlb.my tu:

“Dhrr,lojplxumjil.tulsals.tlbmjp!”

“Okt-okt,lymu!”

“Ystopk,lystopk-k-k-k!”

“Ystopklmslmy,lymu!”

“Dtsl.tulialarrlol amjs!”

“ amjslmslmy,lymu!”

Oyls.tlxakylystopmdklojplwajasajahydklpuaqtls.tluorslsabouplwmp-ysutow
mslboyljalpahxslhjptuysaapls.osls.tytlauptuylbtutlimqtjlajdklrau
“yskdt,”lojplbtutljaslmjstjptplsalwtojlojks.mjilmjl ousmehdouc

“B.oslyomd'yly.tleouukmji?”

“Eahuyty,lsa y'dy,lojplrdkmji-vmx,lymuc”

“Ytjpls.tlu'kodylh !lDoklahslodars,ls.tut,l.odrlolpaftjlar
kt--rautsa woysyshjy'd!lDmqtdk,ljab!”

“Okt-okt,lymu!”

“Y.ontlahsls.oslwomjsaiodojy'd!lY.ttsylojplxuoety!l_jab_lwkl.tousmty!”

“Okt-okt,lymu!”

“.tddhw-o-dtt--.ouplol aus!lYsojplxklsalwttsl.tulb.tjly.tleawty!l aus,
 aus!l_Jab_,lwtj!lBms.lolbmdd!lYstop-k-k-k!”

“Ystopklmslmy,lymu!”

S.tluorslputblxtkajpls.tlwmppdtlarls.tlumqtu;ls.tlxakyl amjstpl.tul.top
umi.s,lojpls.tjldoklajls.tmulaouyclS.tlumqtulboyljasl.mi.,lyals.tutlboy
jaslwautls.ojlolsbalauls.uttlwmdtlehuutjscl.oupdklolbauplboylyomplphumji
s.tljtzsls.utt-ghoustuylarlojl.ahuclJabls.tluorslboyl oyymjilxtraut
s.tlpmysojslsabjclSbalauls.uttlidmwwtumjildmi.syly.abtplb.tutlmsldok,
 toetrhddklydtt mji,lxtkajpls.tlqoihtlqoyslybtt larlysou-itwwtplbostu,
hjeajyemahylarls.tlsutwtjpahyltqtjsls.oslboyl.o  tjmjiclS.tlXdoen
Oqtjitulysaaplysmddlbms.lradptplouwy,l“daanmjil.myldoys”lh ajls.tlyetjt
arl.mylrauwtulvakylojpl.myldostulyhrrtumjiy,lojplbmy.mjil“y.t”leahdplytt
.mwljab,loxuaoplajls.tlbmdplyto,lroemjil tumdlojplptos.lbms.lpohjsdtyy
.tous,liamjilsal.mylpaawlbms.loliumwlywmdtlajl.myldm yclMslboylxhs
olywoddlysuomjlajl.mylmwoimjosmajlsalutwaqtlVoenyaj'ylMydojplxtkajp
tkt-y.aslarls.tlqmddoit,lojplyal.tl“daantpl.myldoys”lbms.lolxuantjlojp
yosmyrmtpl.tousclS.tlas.tul muostylbtutldaanmjils.tmuldoys,lsaa;lojp
s.tkloddldaantplyaldajils.osls.tkleowtljtouldtssmjils.tlehuutjslpumrs
s.twlahslarls.tluojitlarls.tlmydojpclXhsls.tklpmyeaqtutpls.tlpojitulmj
smwt,lojplwoptly.mrslsaloqtuslmsclOxahslsbala'edaenlmjls.tlwaujmjils.t
uorsliuahjptplajls.tlxoulsbal.hjputplkoupyloxaqtls.tl.toplarls.tlmydojp,
ojpls.tklboptplxoenlojplraus.lhjsmdls.tkl.opldojptpls.tmulrutmi.scl ous
arls.tldmssdtluors'ylxtdajimjiyleajymystplarlojladplyomd,lojpls.myls.tk
y utoplaqtuloljaanlmjls.tlxhy.tylraulolstjslsaly.tdstuls.tmul uaqmymajy;
xhsls.tkls.twytdqtylbahdplydtt lmjls.tla tjlomulmjliaaplbtos.tu,loy
xteowtlahsdobyc

S.tklxhmdslolrmutloiomjysls.tlymptlarloliutosldailsbtjsklauls.musklyst y
bms.mjls.tlyawxutlpt s.ylarls.tlrautys,lojpls.tjleaantplyawtlxoeajlmj
s.tlrukmji- ojlraulyh  tu,lojplhytplh l.odrlarls.tleaujl“ ajt”lysaen
s.tkl.oplxuahi.sclMslyttwtplidaumahyly auslsalxtlrtoysmjilmjls.oslbmdp,
ruttlboklmjls.tlqmuimjlrautyslarlojlhjtz dautplojplhjmj.oxmstplmydojp,
roulruawls.tl.ohjsylarlwtj,lojpls.tklyompls.tkljtqtulbahdplutshujlsa
emqmdmfosmajclS.tledmwxmjilrmutldmslh ls.tmulroetylojpls.utblmsyluhppk
idoutlh ajls.tl mddoutplsutt-suhjnylarls.tmulrautyslstw dt,lojplh ajls.t
qoujmy.tplradmoitlojplrtysaajmjilqmjtyc

B.tjls.tldoysleumy lydmetlarlxoeajlboyliajt,lojpls.tldoysloddabojet
arleaujl ajtlptqahutp,ls.tlxakylysutse.tpls.twytdqtylahslajls.tliuoyy,
rmddtplbms.leajstjswtjsclS.tkleahdpl.oqtlrahjploleaadtul doet,lxhs
s.tklbahdpljaslptjkls.twytdqtylyhe.loluawojsmelrtoshutloyls.tluaoysmji
eow rmutc

“_Omj's_lmsliok?”lyomplVatc

“Ms'yl_jhsy_!”lyomplSawcl“B.oslbahdpls.tlxakylyoklmrls.tkleahdplyttlhy?”

“Yok?lBtdd,ls.tk'plvhyslpmtlsalxtl.tut--.tk,l.henk!”

“Mlutenajlya,”lyompl.hendtxtuuk;l“ojkboky,lM'wlyhmstpclMlpaj'slbojs
jas.mjilxtsstu'jls.myclMlpaj'sltqtulitsltjahi.lsaltos,litj'oddk--ojpl.tut
s.tkleoj'sleawtlojpl menloslolrtddtulojplxhddkuoil.mwlyac”

“Ms'ylvhysls.tldmrtlraulwt,”lyomplSawcl“Kahlpaj'sl.oqtlsalitslh ,
waujmjiy,lojplkahlpaj'sl.oqtlsalialsalye.aad,lojplboy.,lojploddls.os
xdowtlraadmy.jtyyclKahlyttlol muostlpaj'sl.oqtlsalpal_ojks.mji_,lVat,
b.tjl.t'yloy.aut,lxhslol.tuwmsl_.t_l.oylsalxtl uokmjileajymptuoxdt,lojp
s.tjl.tlpaj'sl.oqtlojklrhj,lojkbok,loddlxkl.mwytdrls.oslbokc”

“A.lkty,ls.os'ylya,”lyomplVat,l“xhslMl.opj'sls.ahi.slwhe.loxahslms,lkah
njabclM'ploliaaplptodluos.tulxtlol muost,ljabls.oslM'qtlsumtplmsc”

“Kahlytt,”lyomplSaw,l“ ta dtlpaj'slialwhe.lajl.tuwmsy,ljabopoky,ldmnt
s.tklhytplsalmjladplsmwty,lxhslol muost'ylodbokyluty testpclOjp
ol.tuwms'yliaslsalydtt lajls.tl.ouptysl doetl.tleojlrmjp,lojpl hs
yoenedas.lojploy.tylajl.myl.top,lojplysojplahslmjls.tluomj,lojp--”

“B.oslpatyl.tl hslyoenedas.lojploy.tylajl.myl.toplrau?”lmjghmutpl.henc

“MlpajaclXhsls.tk'qtl_ias_lsalpalmscl.tuwmsylodbokylpaclKah'pl.oqtlsalpa
s.oslmrlkahlboylol.tuwmsc”

“Ptuj'plmrlMlbahdp,”lyompl.henc

“Btdd,lb.oslbahdplkahlpa?”

“MlpajaclXhslMlbahdpj'slpals.osc”

“B.k,l.hen,lkah'pl_.oqt_lsacl.ab'plkahlitslouahjplms?”

“B.k,lMlvhyslbahdpj'slysojplmsclM'pluhjlobokc”

“Uhjlobok!lBtdd,lkahl_bahdp_lxtloljmetladplydahe.larlol.tuwmsclKah'plxt
olpmyiuoetc”

S.tlUtp-.ojptplwoptljaluty ajyt,lxtmjilxtsstultw daktpcl.tl.oplrmjmy.tp
iahimjilahsloleax,lojpljabl.tlrmsstplolbttplystwlsalms,ldaoptplmslbms.
saxoeea,lojplboyl utyymjiloleaodlsals.tle.ouitlojplxdabmjiloledahplar
ruoiuojslywant--.tlboylmjls.tlrhddlxdaawlarldhzhumahyleajstjswtjsclS.t
as.tul muostyltjqmtpl.mwls.mylwovtysmelqmet,lojplyteutsdklutyadqtplsa
oeghmutlmsly.ausdkcl utytjsdkl.henlyomp:

“B.oslpatyl muostyl.oqtlsalpa?”

Sawlyomp:

“A.,ls.tkl.oqtlvhyslolxhddklsmwt--sontly.m ylojplxhujls.tw,lojplitsls.t
wajtklojplxhuklmslmjlobrhdl doetylmjls.tmulmydojplb.tutls.tut'yli.aysy
ojpls.mjiylsalbose.lms,lojplnmddltqtukxapklmjls.tly.m y--wontl'twlbodnlo
 dojnc”

“Ojpls.tkleouukls.tlbawtjlsals.tlmydojp,”lyomplVat;l“s.tklpaj'slnmddls.t
bawtjc”

“Ja,”loyytjstplSaw,l“s.tklpaj'slnmddls.tlbawtj--s.tk'utlsaaljaxdtclOjp
s.tlbawtj'ylodbokylxtohsmrhd,lsaac

“Ojplpaj'sls.tklbtouls.tlxhddmtysledas.ty!lA.lja!lOddliadplojplymdqtu
ojplpm'wajpy,”lyomplVat,lbms.ltjs.hymoywc

“B.a?”lyompl.henc

“B.k,ls.tl muostyc”

.henlyeojjtpl.mylabjledas.mjilraudaujdkc

“MlutenajlMlomj'slputyytplrmsstjlraulol muost,”lyompl.t,lbms.lo
utiutsrhdl os.aylmjl.mylqamet;l“xhslMlomj'sliasljajtlxhsls.tytc”

Xhsls.tlas.tulxakylsadpl.mwls.tlrmjtledas.tylbahdpleawtlroysltjahi.,
orstuls.tkly.ahdpl.oqtlxtihjls.tmulopqtjshutyclS.tklwoptl.mwlhjptuysojp
s.osl.myl aauluoiylbahdplpalsalxtimjlbms.,ls.ahi.lmslboylehysawouklrau
btods.kl muostylsalysouslbms.lol ua tulboupuaxtc

Iuophoddkls.tmulsodnlpmtplahslojplpuabymjtyylxtiojlsalystodlh ajls.t
tktdmpylarls.tldmssdtlbomryclS.tl m tlpua  tplruawls.tlrmjituylarls.t
Utp-.ojptp,lojpl.tlydt sls.tlydtt larls.tleajyemtjet-ruttlojpls.tlbtoukc
S.tlStuuaularls.tlYtoylojpls.tlXdoenlOqtjitularls.tlY ojmy.lWomjl.op
wautlpmrrmehdsklmjlitssmjilsalydtt clS.tklyompls.tmul uoktuylmjboupdk,
ojpldkmjilpabj,lymjetls.tutlboyljaxapkls.tutlbms.lohs.aumsklsalwontls.tw
njttdlojplutemstlodahp;lmjlsuhs.,ls.tkl.oplolwmjpljaslsalyokls.twlos
odd,lxhsls.tklbtutloruomplsal uaettplsalyhe.ldtjis.yloyls.os,ldtysls.tk
wmi.sleoddlpabjlolyhpptjlojply temodls.hjptuxadslruawl.toqtjclS.tjlos
ajetls.tklutoe.tplojpl.aqtutplh ajls.tlmwwmjtjslqtuitlarlydtt --xhsloj
mjsuhptuleowt,ljab,ls.oslbahdpljasl“pabjc”lMslboyleajyemtjetclS.tklxtioj
salrttdlolqoihtlrtouls.osls.tkl.oplxttjlpamjilbuajilsaluhjlobok;lojp
jtzsls.tkls.ahi.slarls.tlysadtjlwtos,lojpls.tjls.tlutodlsaushutleowtc
S.tklsumtplsalouihtlmsloboklxklutwmjpmjileajyemtjetls.osls.tkl.op
 hudamjtplybttswtosylojplo  dtylyeautylarlsmwty;lxhsleajyemtjetlboyljas
salxtlo  toytplxklyhe.ls.mjl dohymxmdmsmty;lmslyttwtplsals.tw,lmjls.t
tjp,ls.osls.tutlboyljalitssmjilouahjpls.tlyshxxaujlroesls.oslsonmji
ybttswtosylboylajdkl“.aanmji,”lb.mdtlsonmjilxoeajlojpl.owylojplyhe.
qodhoxdtylboyl domjlymw dtlystodmji--ojpls.tutlboyloleawwojploiomjysls.os
mjls.tlXmxdtclYals.tklmjboupdklutyadqtpls.oslyaldajiloyls.tklutwomjtplmj
s.tlxhymjtyy,ls.tmul muoemtyly.ahdpljasloiomjlxtlyhddmtplbms.ls.t
eumwtlarlystodmjiclS.tjleajyemtjetliuojstplolsuhet,lojpls.tytlehumahydk
mjeajymystjsl muostylrtddl toetrhddklsalydtt c




E.O STUlZMQ

B.TJlSawlobantlmjls.tlwaujmji,l.tlbajptutplb.tutl.tlboycl.tlyoslh lojp
uhxxtpl.myltktylojpldaantplouahjpclS.tjl.tleaw ut.tjptpclMslboyls.tleaad
iuoklpobj,lojpls.tutlboylolptdmemahylytjytlarlut aytlojpl toetlmjls.t
ptt l tuqopmjileodwlojplymdtjetlarls.tlbaapyclJasloldtorlysmuutp;ljas
olyahjplaxsuhptplh ajliutoslJoshut'ylwtpmsosmajclXtoptplptbpua ylysaap
h ajls.tldtoqtylojpliuoyytyclOlb.mstldoktularloy.tyleaqtutpls.tlrmut,
ojplols.mjlxdhtlxutos.larlywantluaytlysuomi.slmjsals.tlomuclVatlojpl.hen
ysmddlydt sc

Jab,lrouloboklmjls.tlbaapylolxmupleoddtp;lojas.tulojybtutp;l utytjsdk
s.tl.owwtumjilarlolbaap tentulboyl.toupclIuophoddkls.tleaadlpmwliuok
arls.tlwaujmjilb.mstjtp,lojployliuophoddklyahjpylwhdsm dmtplojpldmrt
wojmrtystplmsytdrclS.tlwouqtdlarlJoshutly.onmjilarrlydtt lojpliamji
salbaunlhjradptplmsytdrlsals.tlwhymjilxakclOldmssdtliuttjlbauwleowt
euobdmjilaqtulolptbkldtor,ldmrsmjilsba-s.mupylarl.mylxapklmjsals.tlomu
ruawlsmwtlsalsmwtlojpl“yjmrrmjilouahjp,”ls.tjl uaettpmjiloiomj--raul.t
boylwtoyhumji,lSawlyomp;lojplb.tjls.tlbauwlo  uaoe.tpl.mw,larlmsylabj
oeeaup,l.tlyosloylysmddloylolysajt,lbms.l.myl.a tylumymjilojplroddmji,
xklshujy,loyls.tleutoshutlysmddleowtlsaboupl.mwlaulyttwtplmjedmjtplsa
ialtdytb.tut;lojplb.tjlosldoyslmsleajymptutplol omjrhdlwawtjslbms.lmsy
ehuqtplxapklmjls.tlomulojpls.tjleowtlptemymqtdklpabjlh ajlSaw'yldtilojp
xtiojlolvahujtklaqtul.mw,l.mylb.adtl.touslboylidop--rauls.oslwtojsls.os
.tlboyliamjilsal.oqtloljtblyhmslarledas.ty--bms.ahsls.tly.opablarlo
pahxsloliohpkl muosmeodlhjmrauwclJablol uaetyymajlarlojsylo  toutp,
ruawljab.tutlmjl ousmehdou,lojplbtjsloxahsls.tmuldoxauy;lajtlysuhiidtp
wojrhddklxklbms.lolptoply mptulrmqtlsmwtyloylxmiloylmsytdrlmjlmsylouwy,
ojpldhiitplmslysuomi.slh lolsutt-suhjnclOlxuabjly asstpldopk-xhiledmwxtp
s.tlpmffkl.tmi.slarloliuoyylxdopt,lojplSawlxtjslpabjledaytlsalmslojp
yomp,l“Dopk-xhi,ldopk-xhi,lrdklobokl.awt,lkahul.ahytlmylajlrmut,lkahu
e.mdputj'ylodajt,”lojply.tlsaanlbmjilojplbtjslarrlsalyttloxahslms--b.me.
pmpljaslyhu umytls.tlxak,lraul.tlnjtblarladpls.osls.mylmjyteslboy
eutphdahyloxahsleajrdoiuosmajy,lojpl.tl.opl uoesmytplh ajlmsylymw dmemsk
wautls.ojlajetclOlshwxdtxhileowtljtzs,l.toqmjilyshupmdkloslmsylxodd,lojp
Sawlsahe.tpls.tleutoshut,lsalyttlmsly.hslmsyldtiyloiomjyslmsylxapk
ojpl utstjplsalxtlptopclS.tlxmupylbtutlromudklumasmjilxkls.mylsmwtclO
eosxmup,ls.tlJaus.tujlwaentu,ldmslmjlolsuttlaqtulSaw'yl.top,lojplsumddtp
ahsl.tulmwmsosmajylarl.tuljtmi.xauylmjloluo shutlarltjvakwtjs;ls.tj
oly.umddlvoklybt slpabj,lolrdoy.larlxdhtlrdowt,lojplysa  tplajlolsbmi
odwayslbms.mjls.tlxak'ylutoe.,leaentpl.myl.toplsalajtlymptlojpltktpls.t
ysuojituylbms.loleajyhwmjilehumaymsk;loliuoklyghmuutdlojplolxmilrtddab
arls.tl“raz”lnmjpleowtlynhuukmjilodaji,lymssmjilh loslmjstuqodylsa
mjy teslojple.osstulosls.tlxaky,lrauls.tlbmdpls.mjiyl.opl uaxoxdkljtqtu
yttjlol.hwojlxtmjilxtrautlojplyeouetdklnjtblb.ts.tulsalxtloruomplauljasc
OddlJoshutlboylbmptlobontlojplysmuumji,ljab;ldajildojetylarlyhjdmi.s
 mtuetplpabjls.uahi.ls.tlptjytlradmoitlroulojpljtou,lojplolrtb
xhssturdmtyleowtlrdhsstumjilh ajls.tlyetjtc

Sawlysmuutplh ls.tlas.tul muostylojpls.tkloddledosstutploboklbms.
oly.ahs,lojplmjlolwmjhstlaulsbalbtutlysum  tplojple.oymjilorstulojp
shwxdmjilaqtultoe.las.tulmjls.tly.oddabldmw mplbostularls.tlb.mst
yojpxouclS.tklrtdsljaldajimjilrauls.tldmssdtlqmddoitlydtt mjilmjls.t
pmysojetlxtkajpls.tlwovtysmelboystlarlbostuclOlqoiuojslehuutjslaulo
ydmi.slumytlmjls.tlumqtul.opleouumtplarrls.tmuluors,lxhsls.mylajdk
iuosmrmtpls.tw,lymjetlmsyliamjilboylyawts.mjildmntlxhujmjils.tlxumpit
xtsbttjls.twlojplemqmdmfosmajc

S.tkleowtlxoenlsaleow lbajpturhddklutruty.tp,lidop-.toustp,lojp
uoqtjahy;lojpls.tklyaajl.opls.tleow -rmutlxdofmjilh loiomjcl.henlrahjplo
y umjilarledtouleadplbostuledaytlxk,lojpls.tlxakylwoptleh ylarlxuaoplaon
aul.menaukldtoqty,lojplrtdsls.oslbostu,lybttstjtplbms.lyhe.lolbmdpbaap
e.ouwloyls.os,lbahdplxtloliaapltjahi.lyhxysmshstlraulearrttclB.mdtlVat
boylydmemjilxoeajlraulxutonroys,lSawlojpl.henloyntpl.mwlsal.adplajlo
wmjhst;ls.tklyst  tplsalol uawmymjiljaanlmjls.tlumqtu-xojnlojpls.utblmj
s.tmuldmjty;lodwayslmwwtpmostdkls.tkl.oplutboupclVatl.opljasl.oplsmwt
salitslmw osmtjslxtrautls.tklbtutlxoenloiomjlbms.lyawtl.ojpyawtlxoyy,
oleah dtlarlyhj- tue.lojplolywoddleosrmy.-- uaqmymajyltjahi.lraulghmstlo
rowmdkclS.tklrumtpls.tlrmy.lbms.ls.tlxoeaj,lojplbtutloysajmy.tp;lrau
jalrmy.l.opltqtulyttwtplyalptdmemahylxtrautclS.tklpmpljaslnjabls.osls.t
ghmentulolruty.-bostulrmy.lmylajls.tlrmutlorstul.tlmyleohi.sls.tlxtsstu
.tlmy;lojpls.tklutrdtestpldmssdtlh ajlb.oslolyohetla tj-omulydtt mji,
a tj-omultztuemyt,lxos.mji,lojploldouitlmjiutpmtjslarl.hjitulwont,lsaac

S.tkldoklouahjplmjls.tly.opt,lorstulxutonroys,lb.mdtl.henl.oplolywant,
ojpls.tjlbtjslarrls.uahi.ls.tlbaapylajlojltz daumjiltz tpmsmajclS.tk
suow tpliokdklodaji,laqtulpteokmjildaiy,ls.uahi.lsojidtplhjptuxuhy.,
owajilyadtwjlwajoue.ylarls.tlrautys,l.hjilruawls.tmuleuabjylsals.t
iuahjplbms.lolpuaa mjilutiodmolarliuo t-qmjtyclJablojpls.tjls.tkleowt
h ajlyjhiljaanyleou tstplbms.liuoyylojplvtbtdtplbms.lrdabtuyc

S.tklrahjpl dtjsklarls.mjiylsalxtlptdmi.stplbms.,lxhsljas.mjilsalxt
oysajmy.tplosclS.tklpmyeaqtutpls.osls.tlmydojplboyloxahsls.uttlwmdty
dajilojplolghoustularlolwmdtlbmpt,lojpls.osls.tly.autlmsldokledaytyslsa
boylajdklyt ouostplruawlmslxkloljouuable.ojjtdl.oupdklsbal.hjputplkoupy
bmptclS.tklsaanlolybmwloxahsltqtukl.ahu,lyalmslboyledaytlh ajls.tlwmppdt
arls.tlorstujaajlb.tjls.tkliaslxoenlsaleow clS.tklbtutlsaal.hjiuklsa
ysa lsalrmy.,lxhsls.tklroutplyhw shahydklh ajleadpl.ow,lojpls.tjls.utb
s.twytdqtylpabjlmjls.tly.optlsalsodnclXhsls.tlsodnlyaajlxtiojlsalpuoi,
ojpls.tjlpmtpclS.tlysmddjtyy,ls.tlyadtwjmskls.oslxuaaptplmjls.tlbaapy,
ojpls.tlytjytlarldajtdmjtyy,lxtiojlsalstddlh ajls.tly mumsylarls.tlxakyc
S.tklrtddlsals.mjnmjiclOlyauslarlhjptrmjtpldajimjileut slh ajls.twclS.my
saanlpmwly.o t,l utytjsdk--mslboylxhppmjil.awtymenjtyyclTqtjlRmjjls.t
Utp-.ojptplboylputowmjilarl.mylpaauyst ylojpltw skl.aiy.topyclXhsls.tk
btutloddloy.owtplarls.tmulbtonjtyy,lojpljajtlboylxuoqtltjahi.lsaly ton
.myls.ahi.sc

Raulyawtlsmwt,ljab,ls.tlxakyl.oplxttjlphddkleajyemahylarlol tehdmou
yahjplmjls.tlpmysojet,lvhysloylajtlyawtsmwtylmylarls.tlsmenmjilarlo
edaenlb.me.l.tlsontyljalpmysmjesljastlarclXhsljabls.mylwkystumahylyahjp
xteowtlwautl uajahjetp,lojplrauetploluteaijmsmajclS.tlxakylysoustp,
idojetplosltoe.las.tu,lojpls.tjltoe.loyyhwtploldmystjmjilossmshptclS.tut
boyloldajilymdtjet,l uarahjplojplhjxuantj;ls.tjlolptt ,lyhddtjlxaawleowt
rdaosmjilpabjlahslarls.tlpmysojetc

“B.oslmylms!”ltzedomwtplVat,lhjptul.mylxutos.c

“Mlbajptu,”lyomplSawlmjlolb.my tuc

“'Somj'sls.hjptu,”lyompl.hendtxtuuk,lmjlojlobtplsajt,l“xtehfls.hjptu--”

“.oun!”lyomplSawcl“Dmystj--paj'slsodnc”

S.tklbomstplolsmwtls.oslyttwtplojloit,lojpls.tjls.tlyowtlwhrrdtplxaaw
suahxdtpls.tlyadtwjl.hy.c

“Dts'ylialojplyttc”

S.tkly uojilsals.tmulrttslojpl.huumtplsals.tly.autlsaboupls.tlsabjclS.tk
 oustpls.tlxhy.tylajls.tlxojnlojpl ttutplahslaqtuls.tlbostuclS.tldmssdt
ystowlrtuuk-xaoslboyloxahslolwmdtlxtdabls.tlqmddoit,lpumrsmjilbms.ls.t
ehuutjscl.tulxuaoplptenlyttwtpleuabptplbms.l ta dtclS.tutlbtutloliutos
wojklynmrryluabmjiloxahslaulrdaosmjilbms.ls.tlysutowlmjls.tljtmi.xau.aap
arls.tlrtuukxaos,lxhsls.tlxakyleahdpljaslptstuwmjtlb.osls.tlwtjlmj
s.twlbtutlpamjicl utytjsdkloliutoslvtslarlb.mstlywantlxhuyslruawls.t
rtuukxaos'ylympt,lojploylmsltz ojptplojpluaytlmjloldofkledahp,ls.oslyowt
phddls.uaxlarlyahjplboylxaujtlsals.tldmystjtuyloiomjc

“Mlnjabljab!”ltzedomwtplSaw;l“yawtxapk'ylpuabjptp!”

“S.os'ylms!”lyompl.hen;l“s.tklpajtls.osldoyslyhwwtu,lb.tjlXmddlShujtu
iaslpuabjptp;ls.tkly.aasloleojjajlaqtuls.tlbostu,lojpls.oslwonty
.mwleawtlh lsals.tlsa clKty,lojpls.tklsontldaoqtylarlxutoplojpl hs
ghmenymdqtulmjl'twlojplytsl'twlordaos,lojplb.tutqtuls.tut'ylojkxapk
s.os'ylpuabjptp,ls.tk'ddlrdaoslumi.sls.tutlojplysa c”

“Kty,lM'qtl.touploxahsls.os,”lyomplVatcl“Mlbajptulb.oslwontyls.tlxutop
pals.osc”

“A.,lmslomj'sls.tlxutop,lyalwhe.,”lyomplSaw;l“Mlutenajlms'ylwaysdklb.os
s.tkl_yok_laqtulmslxtrautls.tklysouslmslahsc”

“Xhsls.tklpaj'slyoklojks.mjilaqtulms,”lyompl.hencl“M'qtlyttjl'twlojp
s.tklpaj'sc”

“Btdd,ls.os'ylrhjjk,”lyomplSawcl“Xhslwokxtls.tklyoklmslsals.twytdqtyclAr
_eahuyt_ls.tklpaclOjkxapklwmi.slnjabls.osc”

S.tlas.tulxakyloiuttpls.osls.tutlboylutoyajlmjlb.oslSawlyomp,lxteohyt
ojlmijauojsldhw larlxutop,lhjmjysuhestplxklojlmjeojsosmaj,leahdpljas
xtltz testplsaloeslqtuklmjstddmitjsdklb.tjlytslh ajlojltuuojplarlyhe.
iuoqmskc

“Xklvmjiy,lMlbmy.lMlboylaqtuls.tut,ljab,”lyomplVatc

“Mlpalsaa”lyompl.henl“M'plimqtl.to ylsalnjablb.almslmyc”

S.tlxakylysmddldmystjtplojplbose.tpcl utytjsdklolutqtodmjils.ahi.s
rdoy.tpls.uahi.lSaw'ylwmjp,lojpl.tltzedomwtp:

“Xaky,lMlnjablb.a'ylpuabjptp--ms'ylhy!”

S.tklrtdsldmntl.tuatylmjlojlmjysojscl.tutlboyloliauitahylsumhw .;ls.tk
btutlwmyytp;ls.tklbtutlwahujtp;l.tousylbtutlxutonmjilajls.tmuloeeahjs;
stouylbtutlxtmjily.tp;loeehymjilwtwaumtylarlhjnmjpjtyylsals.tytl aau
daysldopylbtutlumymjilh ,lojplhjoqomdmjilutiutsylojplutwauytlbtutlxtmji
mjphditp;lojplxtyslarlodd,ls.tlpt oustplbtutls.tlsodnlarls.tlb.adtlsabj,
ojpls.tltjqklarloddls.tlxaky,loylrouloyls.mylpoffdmjiljasaumtsklboy
eajetujtpclS.mylboylrmjtclMslboylbaus.lb.mdtlsalxtlol muost,lorstuloddc

Oylsbmdmi.slputblaj,ls.tlrtuukxaoslbtjslxoenlsal.tuloeehysawtplxhymjtyy
ojpls.tlynmrrylpmyo  toutpclS.tl muostylutshujtplsaleow clS.tklbtut
vhxmdojslbms.lqojmsklaqtuls.tmuljtbliuojpthulojpls.tlmddhysumahylsuahxdt
s.tklbtutlwonmjiclS.tkleohi.slrmy.,leaantplyh  tulojplostlms,lojpls.tj
rtddlsalihtyymjiloslb.osls.tlqmddoitlboyls.mjnmjilojplyokmjiloxahsls.tw;
ojpls.tl meshutyls.tklputblarls.tl hxdmelpmysutyylajls.tmuloeeahjslbtut
iuosmrkmjilsaldaanlh aj--ruawls.tmul amjslarlqmtbclXhslb.tjls.tly.opaby
arljmi.sledaytpls.twlmj,ls.tkliuophoddkletoytplsalsodn,lojplyosliofmji
mjsals.tlrmut,lbms.ls.tmulwmjpyltqmptjsdklbojptumjiltdytb.tutclS.t
tzemstwtjslboyliajt,ljab,lojplSawlojplVatleahdpljaslntt lxoenls.ahi.sy
arletusomjl tuyajylosl.awtlb.albtutljasltjvakmjils.mylrmjtlruadmeloy
whe.loyls.tklbtutclWmyimqmjiyleowt;ls.tkliutblsuahxdtplojplhj.o  k;lo
ymi.laulsbaltyeo tp,lhjoboutyclXklojplxklVatlsmwmpdklqtjshutplh ajlo
uahjpoxahsl“rttdtu”loylsal.abls.tlas.tuylwmi.sldaanlh ajlolutshujlsa
emqmdmfosmaj--jaslumi.sljab,lxhs--

Sawlbms.tutpl.mwlbms.lptumymaj!l.hen,lxtmjilhjeawwmsstploylkts,lvamjtp
mjlbms.lSaw,lojpls.tlboqtutulghmendkl“tz domjtp,”lojplboylidoplsalits
ahslarls.tlyeuo tlbms.loyldmssdtlsomjslarle.mentj-.toustpl.awt-ymenjtyy
edmjimjilsal.myliouwtjsyloyl.tleahdpclWhsmjklboyltrrteshoddkldomplsa
utyslrauls.tlwawtjsc

Oyls.tljmi.slptt tjtp,l.henlxtiojlsaljap,lojpl utytjsdklsalyjautc
VatlraddabtpljtzsclSawldoklh ajl.myltdxablwasmajdtyy,lraulyawtlsmwt,
bose.mjils.tlsbalmjstjsdkclOsldoysl.tliaslh leohsmahydk,lajl.mylnjtty,
ojplbtjslytoue.mjilowajils.tliuoyylojpls.tlrdmentumjilutrdtesmajylrdhji
xkls.tleow rmutcl.tl mentplh lojplmjy testplytqtuodldouitlytwm-ekdmjptuy
arls.tls.mjlb.mstlxounlarlolykeowaut,lojplrmjoddkle.aytlsbalb.me.lyttwtp
salyhmsl.mwclS.tjl.tlnjtdslxkls.tlrmutlojpl omjrhddklbuastlyawts.mji
h ajltoe.larls.tytlbms.l.myl“utplnttd”;lajtl.tluaddtplh lojpl hslmjl.my
voentsl aents,lojpls.tlas.tul.tl hslmjlVat'yl.oslojplutwaqtplmslsalo
dmssdtlpmysojetlruawls.tlabjtuclOjpl.tlodyal hslmjsals.tl.osletusomj
ye.aadxaklsutoyhutylarlodwayslmjtysmwoxdtlqodht--owajils.twloldhw lar
e.odn,lojlMjpmo-uhxxtulxodd,ls.uttlrmy..aany,lojplajtlarls.oslnmjp
arlwouxdtylnjabjloylol“yhutl'jahi.leukysodc”lS.tjl.tlsm satpl.mylbok
eohsmahydklowajils.tlsuttylsmddl.tlrtdsls.osl.tlboylahslarl.toumji,lojp
ysuomi.sboklxuantlmjsalolnttjluhjlmjls.tlpmutesmajlarls.tlyojpxouc




E.O STUlZQ

OlrtblwmjhstyldostulSawlboylmjls.tly.aodlbostularls.tlxou,lbopmjilsaboup
s.tlMddmjamyly.autclXtrautls.tlpt s.lutoe.tpl.mylwmppdtl.tlboyl.odrbok
aqtu;ls.tlehuutjslbahdpl tuwmsljalwautlbopmji,ljab,lyal.tlysuhenlahs
eajrmptjsdklsalybmwls.tlutwomjmjil.hjputplkoupycl.tlybowlghoustumji
h ysutow,lxhslysmddlboylybt slpabjboupluos.tulroystuls.ojl.tl.op
tz testpcl.abtqtu,l.tlutoe.tpls.tly.autlrmjoddk,lojplpumrstplodajilsmdd
.tlrahjploldabl doetlojplputbl.mwytdrlahscl.tl hsl.myl.ojplajl.mylvoents
 aents,lrahjpl.myl mtetlarlxounlyort,lojpls.tjlysuhenls.uahi.ls.tlbaapy,
raddabmjils.tly.aut,lbms.lysutowmjiliouwtjsyclY.ausdklxtrautlstj
a'edaenl.tleowtlahslmjsalojla tjl doetla  aymstls.tlqmddoit,lojplyobls.t
rtuukxaosldkmjilmjls.tly.opablarls.tlsuttylojpls.tl.mi.lxojnclTqtuks.mji
boylghmtslhjptuls.tlxdmjnmjilysouycl.tleut slpabjls.tlxojn,lbose.mji
bms.loddl.myltkty,lydm  tplmjsals.tlbostu,lybowls.uttlaulrahulysuanty
ojpledmwxtplmjsals.tlynmrrls.oslpmpl“kobd”lphsklosls.tlxaos'ylystujcl.t
dompl.mwytdrlpabjlhjptuls.tls.bousylojplbomstp,l ojsmjic

 utytjsdkls.tleuoentplxtddlso  tplojplolqametlioqtls.tlauptulsal“eoys
arrc”lOlwmjhstlaulsbaldostuls.tlynmrr'yl.toplboylysojpmjil.mi.lh ,
oiomjysls.tlxaos'ylybtdd,lojpls.tlqakoitlboylxtihjclSawlrtdsl.o  klmj
.mylyheetyy,lraul.tlnjtblmslboyls.tlxaos'yldoyslsum lrauls.tljmi.sclOs
s.tltjplarloldajilsbtdqtlaulrmrsttjlwmjhstyls.tlb.ttdylysa  tp,lojp
Sawlydm  tplaqtuxaouplojplybowloy.autlmjls.tlphyn,ldojpmjilrmrsklkoupy
pabjysutow,lahslarlpojitularl ayymxdtlysuoiidtuyc

.tlrdtblodajilhjrutghtjstploddtky,lojply.ausdklrahjpl.mwytdrlosl.my
ohjs'ylxoenlrtjetcl.tledmwxtplaqtu,lo  uaoe.tpls.tl“tdd,”lojpldaantp
mjlosls.tlymssmji-uaawlbmjpab,lrauloldmi.slboylxhujmjils.tutclS.tut
yoslOhjsl addk,lYmp,lWouk,lojplVatl.ou tu'ylwas.tu,liuah tplsaits.tu,
sodnmjiclS.tklbtutlxkls.tlxtp,lojpls.tlxtplboylxtsbttjls.twlojpls.t
paauclSawlbtjslsals.tlpaaulojplxtiojlsalyarsdkldmrsls.tldose.;ls.tj
.tl utyytplitjsdklojpls.tlpaaulkmtdptploleuoen;l.tleajsmjhtpl hy.mji
eohsmahydk,lojplghonmjiltqtuklsmwtlmsleutontp,lsmddl.tlvhpitpl.tlwmi.s
yghttftls.uahi.lajl.mylnjtty;lyal.tl hsl.myl.topls.uahi.lojplxtioj,
boumdkc

“B.oslwontyls.tleojpdtlxdablya?”lyomplOhjsl addkclSawl.huumtplh cl“B.k,
s.oslpaau'yla tj,lMlxtdmtqtclB.k,larleahuytlmslmyclJaltjplarlysuojit
s.mjiyljabclIal'dajilojply.hslms,lYmpc”

Sawlpmyo  toutplhjptuls.tlxtplvhyslmjlsmwtcl.tldoklojpl“xutos.tp”
l.mwytdrlraulolsmwt,lojpls.tjleut slsalb.tutl.tleahdplodwayslsahe.l.my
ohjs'ylraasc

“XhsloylMlboylyokmji,”lyomplOhjsl addk,l“.tlbouj'sl_xop_,lyalsalyok--ajdk
wmye._tt_qahyclAjdklvhyslimppk,lojpl.ouhw-yeouhw,lkahlnjabcl.tlbouj's
ojklwautluty ajymxdtls.ojloleadscl_.t_ljtqtulwtojslojkl.ouw,lojpl.tlboy
s.tlxtys-.toustplxakls.osltqtulboy”--ojply.tlxtiojlsaleukc

“Mslboylvhyslyalbms.lwklVat--odbokylrhddlarl.mylptqmdwtjs,lojplh lsa
tqtuklnmjplarlwmye.mtr,lxhsl.tlboylvhysloylhjytdrmy.lojplnmjployl.t
eahdplxt--ojpldobylxdtyylwt,lsals.mjnlMlbtjslojplb.m  tpl.mwlraulsonmji
s.osleutow,ljtqtulajetluteaddtesmjils.oslMls.uabtplmslahslwkytdrlxteohyt
mslboylyahu,lojplMljtqtulsalyttl.mwloiomjlmjls.mylbaudp,ljtqtu,ljtqtu,
jtqtu,l aauloxhytplxak!”lOjplWuycl.ou tulyaxxtploylmrl.tul.touslbahdp
xutonc

“Ml.a tlSaw'ylxtsstularrlb.tutl.tlmy,”lyomplYmp,l“xhslmrl.t'plxttj
xtsstulmjlyawtlboky--”

“_Ymp!_”lSawlrtdsls.tlidoutlarls.tladpldopk'yltkt,ls.ahi.l.tleahdpljas
yttlmscl“JaslolbauploiomjyslwklSaw,ljabls.osl.t'yliajt!lIap'ddlsontleout
arl_.mw_--jtqtulkahlsuahxdtl_kahu_ytdr,lymu!lA.,lWuycl.ou tu,lMlpaj's
njabl.ablsalimqtl.mwlh !lMlpaj'slnjabl.ablsalimqtl.mwlh !l.tlboylyhe.lo
eawrauslsalwt,lods.ahi.l.tlsauwtjstplwkladpl.touslahslarlwt,l'waysc”

“S.tlDauplimqts.lojpls.tlDaupl.os.lsontjlobok--Xdtyytplxtls.tljowtlar
s.tlDaup!lXhslms'ylyal.oup--A.,lms'ylyal.oup!lAjdkldoyslYoshupoklwklVat
xhystplolrmuteuoentulumi.slhjptulwkljaytlojplMlnjaentpl.mwly uobdmjic
DmssdtlpmplMlnjabls.tj,l.ablyaaj--A.,lmrlmslboylsalpalaqtuloiomjlM'pl.hi
.mwlojplxdtyyl.mwlraulmsc”

“Kty,lkty,lkty,lMlnjablvhysl.ablkahlrttd,lWuycl.ou tu,lMlnjablvhys
tzoesdkl.ablkahlrttdclJaldajituloials.ojlktystupokljaaj,lwklSawlsaan
ojplrmddtpls.tleoslrhddlarl omj-nmddtu,lojplMlpmpls.mjnls.tleutshulbahdp
stouls.tl.ahytlpabjclOjplIaplrauimqtlwt,lMleuoentplSaw'yl.toplbms.lwk
s.mwxdt,l aaulxak,l aaulptoplxakclXhsl.t'ylahslarloddl.mylsuahxdtyljabc
Ojpls.tldoyslbaupylMltqtul.toupl.mwlyoklboylsalut uaoe.--”

Xhsls.mylwtwauklboylsaalwhe.lrauls.tladpldopk,lojply.tlxuantltjsmutdk
pabjclSawlboylyjhrrdmji,ljab,l.mwytdr--ojplwautlmjl msklarl.mwytdrls.oj
ojkxapkltdytcl.tleahdpl.toulWoukleukmji,lojpl hssmjilmjlolnmjpdklbaup
raul.mwlruawlsmwtlsalsmwtcl.tlxtiojlsal.oqtloljaxdtula mjmajlarl.mwytdr
s.ojltqtulxtrautclYsmdd,l.tlboylyhrrmemtjsdklsahe.tplxkl.mylohjs'yliumtr
saldajilsaluhy.lahslruawlhjptuls.tlxtplojplaqtub.tdwl.tulbms.lvak--ojp
s.tls.tosumeodliauitahyjtyylarls.tls.mjilo  todtplysuajidklsal.my
joshut,lsaa,lxhsl.tlutymystplojpldoklysmddc

.tlbtjslajldmystjmji,lojplios.tutplxklappylojpltjpyls.oslmslboy
eajvteshutploslrmuysls.osls.tlxakyl.opliaslpuabjtplb.mdtlsonmjilolybmw;
s.tjls.tlywoddluorsl.oplxttjlwmyytp;ljtzs,letusomjlxakylyompls.tlwmyymji
dopyl.opl uawmytpls.osls.tlqmddoitly.ahdpl“.toulyawts.mji”lyaaj;ls.t
bmyt-.topyl.opl“ hsls.mylojpls.oslsaits.tu”lojplptemptpls.osls.tldopy
.opliajtlarrlajls.osluorslojplbahdplshujlh losls.tljtzslsabjlxtdab,
 utytjsdk;lxhslsaboupljaajls.tluorsl.oplxttjlrahjp,ldapitploiomjysls.t
Wmyyahumly.autlyawtlrmqtlaulymzlwmdtylxtdabls.tlqmddoit--ojpls.tjl.a t
 tumy.tp;ls.tklwhyslxtlpuabjtp,ltdytl.hjitulbahdpl.oqtlpumqtjls.twl.awt
xkljmi.sroddlmrljaslyaajtuclMslboylxtdmtqtpls.osls.tlytoue.lrauls.t
xapmtyl.oplxttjlolruhmsdtyyltrrauslwtutdklxteohytls.tlpuabjmjilwhys
.oqtlaeehuutplmjlwmp-e.ojjtd,lymjetls.tlxaky,lxtmjiliaaplybmwwtuy,lbahdp
as.tubmytl.oqtltyeo tplsaly.autclS.mylboylBtpjtypokljmi.sclMrls.tlxapmty
eajsmjhtplwmyymjilhjsmdlYhjpok,loddl.a tlbahdplxtlimqtjlaqtu,lojpls.t
rhjtuodylbahdplxtl utoe.tplajls.oslwaujmjiclSawly.hpptutpc

Wuycl.ou tulioqtlolyaxxmjiliaapjmi.slojplshujtplsaliaclS.tjlbms.lo
whshodlmw hdytls.tlsbalxtutoqtplbawtjlrdhjils.twytdqtylmjsaltoe.las.tu'y
ouwylojpl.oploliaap,leajyadmjileuk,lojpls.tjl oustpclOhjsl addklboy
stjptulroulxtkajpl.tulbajs,lmjl.tuliaapjmi.slsalYmplojplWoukclYmp
yjhrrdtplolxmslojplWouklbtjslarrleukmjilbms.loddl.tul.tousc

Ohjsl addklnjtdslpabjlojpl uoktplraulSawlyalsahe.mjidk,lyalo  todmjidk,
ojplbms.lyhe.lwtoyhutdtyyldaqtlmjl.tulbaupylojpl.tuladplsutwxdmjilqamet,
s.osl.tlboylbtdstumjilmjlstouyloiomj,ldajilxtrautly.tlboyls.uahi.c

.tl.oplsalntt lysmddldajilorstuly.tlbtjslsalxtp,lrauly.tlnt slwonmji
xuantj-.toustpltvoehdosmajylruawlsmwtlsalsmwt,lsayymjilhjutysrhddk,lojp
shujmjilaqtuclXhslosldoysly.tlboylysmdd,lajdklwaojmjiloldmssdtlmjl.tu
ydtt clJabls.tlxaklysadtlahs,luaytliuophoddklxkls.tlxtpympt,ly.optpls.t
eojpdt-dmi.slbms.l.myl.ojp,lojplysaaplutioupmjil.tucl.myl.touslboylrhdd
arl msklraul.tucl.tlsaanlahsl.mylykeowautlyeuaddlojpl doetplmslxkls.t
eojpdtclXhslyawts.mjilaeehuutplsal.mw,lojpl.tldmjitutpleajymptumjic
.mylroetldmi.stplbms.lol.o  klyadhsmajlarl.myls.ahi.s;l.tl hsls.tlxoun
.oysmdklmjl.myl aentsclS.tjl.tlxtjslaqtulojplnmyytpls.tlroptpldm y,lojp
ysuomi.sboklwoptl.mylystods.kltzms,ldose.mjils.tlpaaulxt.mjpl.mwc

.tls.utoptpl.mylboklxoenlsals.tlrtuukldojpmji,lrahjpljaxapklosldouit
s.tut,lojplbodntplxadpdklajlxaoupls.tlxaos,lraul.tlnjtbly.tlboy
stjojsdtyyltzet sls.osls.tutlboylolbose.woj,lb.alodbokylshujtplmjlojp
ydt sldmntloliuoqtjlmwoitcl.tlhjsmtpls.tlynmrrlosls.tlystuj,lydm  tp
mjsalms,lojplboylyaajluabmjileohsmahydklh ysutowclB.tjl.tl.opl hddtplo
wmdtloxaqtls.tlqmddoit,l.tlysoustplghoustumjiloeuayylojplxtjsl.mwytdr
ysahsdklsal.mylbauncl.tl.msls.tldojpmjilajls.tlas.tulymptljtosdk,lrau
s.mylboylolrowmdmoulxmslarlbaunlsal.mwcl.tlboylwaqtplsaleo shut
s.tlynmrr,louihmjils.oslmslwmi.slxtleajymptutploly.m lojpls.tutraut
dtimsmwostl utklraulol muost,lxhsl.tlnjtblols.auahi.lytoue.lbahdplxt
woptlraulmslojpls.oslwmi.sltjplmjlutqtdosmajyclYal.tlyst  tploy.autlojp
tjstutpls.tlbaapyc

.tlyoslpabjlojplsaanloldajilutys,lsaushumjil.mwytdrlwtojb.mdtlsalntt 
obont,lojpls.tjlysoustplboumdklpabjls.tl.awt-ysutse.clS.tljmi.slboylrou
y tjsclMslboylxuaoplpokdmi.slxtrautl.tlrahjpl.mwytdrlromudkloxutoysls.t
mydojplxoucl.tlutystploiomjlhjsmdls.tlyhjlboylbtddlh lojplimdpmjils.t
iutoslumqtulbms.lmsyly dtjpau,lojpls.tjl.tl dhjitplmjsals.tlysutowclO
dmssdtldostul.tl ohytp,lpum  mji,lh ajls.tls.uty.adplarls.tleow ,lojp
.touplVatlyok:

“Ja,lSaw'ylsuht-xdht,l.hen,lojpl.t'ddleawtlxoencl.tlbaj'slptytuscl.t
njabyls.oslbahdplxtlolpmyiuoetlsalol muost,lojplSaw'ylsaal uahplrauls.os
yauslarls.mjicl.t'ylh lsalyawts.mjilaulas.tuclJablMlbajptulb.os?”

“Btdd,ls.tls.mjiylmylahuy,lojkbok,lomj'sls.tk?”

“ utsskljtou,lxhsljaslkts,l.henclS.tlbumsmjilyokyls.tkloutlmrl.tlomj's
xoenl.tutlsalxutonroysc”

“B.me.l.tlmy!”ltzedomwtplSaw,lbms.lrmjtlpuowosmeltrrtes,lyst  mji
iuojpdklmjsaleow c

Olyhw shahylxutonroyslarlxoeajlojplrmy.lboyly.ausdkl uaqmptp,lojployls.t
xakylytslsalbaunlh ajlms,lSawluteahjstpl(ojplopaujtp)l.mylopqtjshutyc
S.tklbtutlolqomjlojplxaoysrhdleaw ojklarl.tuatylb.tjls.tlsodtlboylpajtc
S.tjlSawl.mpl.mwytdrloboklmjloly.opkljaanlsalydtt lsmddljaaj,lojpls.t
as.tul muostyliaslutopklsalrmy.lojpltz dautc




E.O STUlZQM

ORSTUlpmjjtuloddls.tliojilshujtplahslsal.hjslraulshusdtltiiylajls.tlxouc
S.tklbtjsloxahsl anmjilysmenylmjsals.tlyojp,lojplb.tjls.tklrahjplolyars
 doetls.tklbtjslpabjlajls.tmulnjttylojplphilbms.ls.tmul.ojpyclYawtsmwty
s.tklbahdplsontlrmrsklaulymzskltiiylahslarlajtl.adtclS.tklbtutl turtesdk
uahjplb.mstls.mjiylolsumrdtlywoddtuls.ojlojlTjidmy.lbodjhsclS.tkl.oplo
rowahylrumtp-tiilrtoysls.osljmi.s,lojplojas.tulajlRumpoklwaujmjic

Orstulxutonroysls.tklbtjslb.aa mjilojpl uojemjilahslajls.tlxou,lojp
e.oytpltoe.las.tuluahjplojpluahjp,ly.tppmjiledas.tyloyls.tklbtjs,lhjsmd
s.tklbtutljontp,lojpls.tjleajsmjhtpls.tlruadmelrouloboklh ls.tly.aod
bostularls.tlxou,loiomjysls.tlysmrrlehuutjs,lb.me.ldosstulsum  tpls.tmu
dtiylruawlhjptuls.twlruawlsmwtlsalsmwtlojpliutosdklmjeutoytpls.tlrhjc
Ojpljablojpls.tjls.tklysaa tplmjloliuah lojply doy.tplbostulmjltoe.
as.tu'ylroetylbms.ls.tmul odwy,liuophoddklo  uaoe.mjiltoe.las.tu,lbms.
oqtustplroetylsaloqampls.tlysuojidmjily uoky,lojplrmjoddklium  mjilojp
ysuhiidmjilsmddls.tlxtyslwojlphentpl.myljtmi.xau,lojpls.tjls.tklodd
btjslhjptulmjlolsojidtlarlb.mstldtiylojplouwylojpleowtlh lxdabmji,
y hsstumji,ldohi.mji,lojplioy mjilraulxutos.loslajtlojpls.tlyowtlsmwtc

B.tjls.tklbtutlbtddltz.ohystp,ls.tklbahdpluhjlahslojply uobdlajls.tlpuk,
.aslyojp,lojpldmtls.tutlojpleaqtuls.twytdqtylh lbms.lms,lojplxklojplxk
xutonlrauls.tlbostuloiomjlojplials.uahi.ls.tlaumimjodl turauwojetlajet
wautclRmjoddklmslaeehuutplsals.twls.osls.tmuljontplynmjlut utytjstp
rdty.-eadautpl“smi.sy”lqtuklromudk;lyals.tklputblolumjilmjls.tlyojplojp
.oplolemuehy--bms.ls.uttledabjylmjlms,lrauljajtlbahdplkmtdpls.myl uahptys
 ayslsal.myljtmi.xauc

Jtzsls.tkliasls.tmulwouxdtylojpl doktpl“njheny”lojpl“umjisob”lojp
“ntt y”lsmddls.oslowhytwtjsliutblysodtclS.tjlVatlojpl.henl.oplojas.tu
ybmw,lxhslSawlbahdpljaslqtjshut,lxteohytl.tlrahjpls.oslmjlnmenmjilarr
.mylsuahytuyl.tl.oplnmentpl.mylysumjilarluossdtyjontluossdtylarrl.my
ojndt,lojpl.tlbajptutpl.abl.tl.opltyeo tpleuow lyaldajilbms.ahsls.t
 uastesmajlarls.mylwkystumahyle.ouwcl.tlpmpljaslqtjshutloiomjlhjsmdl.t
.oplrahjplms,lojplxkls.oslsmwtls.tlas.tulxakylbtutlsmutplojplutopklsa
utysclS.tkliuophoddklbojptutplo ous,lpua  tplmjsals.tl“phw y,”lojp
rtddlsaliofmjildajimjidkloeuayyls.tlbmptlumqtulsalb.tutls.tlqmddoitldok
puabymjilmjls.tlyhjclSawlrahjpl.mwytdrlbumsmjil“XTENK”lmjls.tlyojplbms.
.mylxmilsat;l.tlyeuose.tplmslahs,lojplboylojiuklbms.l.mwytdrlraul.my
btonjtyyclXhsl.tlbuastlmsloiomj,ljtqtus.tdtyy;l.tleahdpljasl.td lmscl.t
tuoytplmslajetlwautlojpls.tjlsaanl.mwytdrlahslarlstw sosmajlxklpumqmji
s.tlas.tulxakylsaits.tulojplvamjmjils.twc

XhslVat'yly mumsyl.opliajtlpabjlodwayslxtkajplutyhuutesmajcl.tlboylya
.awtymenls.osl.tleahdpl.oupdkltjphutls.tlwmytuklarlmsclS.tlstouyldok
qtukljtouls.tlyhuroetcl.henlboylwtdoje.adk,lsaaclSawlboylpabj.toustp,
xhslsumtpl.oupljaslsaly.ablmscl.tl.oplolyteutslb.me.l.tlboyljaslutopk
salstdd,lkts,lxhslmrls.mylwhsmjahylpt utyymajlboyljaslxuantjlh lyaaj,l.t
bahdpl.oqtlsalxumjilmslahscl.tlyomp,lbms.loliutosly.ablarle.tturhdjtyy:

“Mlxtsls.tut'ylxttjl muostylajls.mylmydojplxtraut,lxakyclBt'ddltz daut
msloiomjclS.tk'qtl.mplsutoyhutyl.tutlyawtb.tutcl.ab'plkahlrttdlsaldmi.s
ajloluasstjle.tyslrhddlarliadplojplymdqtu--.tk?”

Xhslmsluahytplajdklromjsltjs.hymoyw,lb.me.lroptplahs,lbms.ljalut dkc
Sawlsumtplajtlaulsbalas.tulytphesmajy;lxhsls.tklromdtp,lsaaclMslboy
pmyeahuoimjilbaunclVatlyosl anmjilh ls.tlyojplbms.lolysmenlojpldaanmji
qtuklidaawkclRmjoddkl.tlyomp:

“A.,lxaky,ldts'ylimqtlmslh clMlbojslsalial.awtclMs'ylyaldajtyawtc”

“A.lja,lVat,lkah'ddlrttdlxtsstulxklojplxk,”lyomplSawcl“Vhysls.mjnlarls.t
rmy.mjils.os'yl.tutc”

“Mlpaj'sleoutlraulrmy.mjiclMlbojslsalial.awtc”

“Xhs,lVat,ls.tutlomj'slyhe.lojas.tulybmwwmji- doetlojkb.tutc”

“Ybmwwmji'yljaliaapclMlpaj'slyttwlsaleoutlraulms,lyawt.ab,lb.tjls.tut
omj'slojkxapklsalyoklMly.o'j'slialmjclMlwtojlsalial.awtc”

“A.,ly.heny!lXoxk!lKahlbojslsalyttlkahulwas.tu,lMlutenajc”

“Kty,lMl_pa_lbojslsalyttlwklwas.tu--ojplkahlbahdp,lsaa,lmrlkahl.oplajtclM
omj'slojklwautlxoxkls.ojlkahloutc”lOjplVatlyjhrrdtploldmssdtc

“Btdd,lbt'ddldtsls.tleukxoxklial.awtlsal.mylwas.tu,lbaj'slbt,l.hen?l aau
s.mji--patylmslbojslsalyttlmsylwas.tu?lOjplyalmsly.oddclKahldmntlmsl.tut,
paj'slkah,l.hen?lBt'ddlysok,lbaj'slbt?”

.henlyomp,l“K-t-y”--bms.ahslojkl.touslmjlmsc

“M'ddljtqtuly tonlsalkahloiomjloyldajiloylMldmqt,”lyomplVat,lumymjic
“S.tutljab!”lOjpl.tlwaqtplwaapmdkloboklojplxtiojlsalputyyl.mwytdrc

“B.aleouty!”lyomplSawcl“JaxapklbojsylkahlsaclIal'dajil.awtlojplits
dohi.tplosclA.,lkah'utloljmetl muostcl.henlojplwtlomj'sleukxoxmtyclBt'dd
ysok,lbaj'slbt,l.hen?lDtsl.mwlialmrl.tlbojsylsaclMlutenajlbtleojlits
odajilbms.ahsl.mw,l tu'o yc”

XhslSawlboylhjtoyk,ljtqtus.tdtyy,lojplboylodouwtplsalyttlVatlialyhddtjdk
ajlbms.l.mylputyymjiclOjpls.tjlmslboylpmyeawrausmjilsalyttl.henltkmji
Vat'yl ut ouosmajylyalbmysrhddk,lojplntt mjilh lyhe.lojlawmjahylymdtjetc
 utytjsdk,lbms.ahslol ousmjilbaup,lVatlxtiojlsalboptlarrlsaboupls.t
Mddmjamyly.autclSaw'yl.touslxtiojlsalymjncl.tlidojetplosl.hencl.hen
eahdpljaslxtouls.tldaan,lojplpua  tpl.myltktyclS.tjl.tlyomp:

“Mlbojslsalia,lsaa,lSawclMslboylitssmjilyaldajtyawtlojkbok,lojpljab
ms'ddlxtlbauytclDts'ylhylia,lsaa,lSawc”

“Mlbaj's!lKahleojloddlia,lmrlkahlbojslsaclMlwtojlsalysokc”

“Saw,lMlxtsstuliac”

“Btdd,lial'daji--b.a'yl.tjptumjilkahc”

.henlxtiojlsal menlh l.mylyeosstutpledas.tycl.tlyomp:

“Saw,lMlbmy.slkah'pleawt,lsaaclJablkahls.mjnlmslaqtuclBt'ddlbomslraulkah
b.tjlbtlitslsaly.autc”

“Btdd,lkah'ddlbomslolxdowtldajilsmwt,ls.os'yloddc”

.henlysoustplyauuabrhddklobok,lojplSawlysaapldaanmjilorstul.mw,lbms.lo
ysuajilptymutlshiimjilosl.myl.touslsalkmtdpl.myl umptlojplialodaji
saacl.tl.a tpls.tlxakylbahdplysa ,lxhsls.tklysmddlboptplydabdklajclMs
yhpptjdklpobjtplajlSawls.oslmslboylxteawtlqtukldajtdklojplysmddcl.tlwopt
ajtlrmjodlysuhiidtlbms.l.myl umpt,lojpls.tjlpoustplorstul.myleawuopty,
ktddmji:

“Boms!lBoms!lMlbojslsalstddlkahlyawts.mji!”

S.tkl utytjsdklysa  tplojplshujtplouahjpclB.tjl.tliaslsalb.tutls.tk
btut,l.tlxtiojlhjradpmjil.mylyteuts,lojpls.tkldmystjtplwaapmdklsmdd
osldoysls.tklyobls.tl“ amjs”l.tlboylpumqmjilos,lojpls.tjls.tklytslh lo
boub.aa larlo  dohytlojplyomplmslboyl“y dtjpmp!”lojplyomplmrl.tl.op
sadpls.twloslrmuys,ls.tklbahdpj'sl.oqtlysoustplobokcl.tlwoptlol dohymxdt
tzehyt;lxhsl.mylutodlutoyajl.oplxttjls.tlrtouls.osljasltqtjls.tlyteuts
bahdplntt ls.twlbms.l.mwlojklqtukliutosldtjis.larlsmwt,lojplyal.tl.op
wtojslsal.adplmslmjlutytuqtloyloldoyslytphesmajc

S.tldopyleowtliokdklxoenlojplbtjslosls.tmuly ausyloiomjlbms.lolbmdd,
e.osstumjiloddls.tlsmwtloxahslSaw'ylysh tjpahyl dojlojplopwmumjils.t
itjmhylarlmsclOrstulolpomjskltiilojplrmy.lpmjjtu,lSawlyompl.tlbojstplsa
dtoujlsalywant,ljabclVatleohi.slosls.tlmptolojplyompl.tlbahdpldmntlsa
suk,lsaaclYal.henlwoptl m tylojplrmddtpls.twclS.tytljaqmetyl.opljtqtu
ywantplojks.mjilxtrautlxhslemiouylwoptlarliuo tqmjt,lojpls.tkl“xms”ls.t
sajiht,lojplbtutljasleajymptutplwojdklojkbokc

Jabls.tklysutse.tpls.twytdqtylahslajls.tmultdxabylojplxtiojlsal hrr,
e.oumdk,lojplbms.lydtjptuleajrmptjetclS.tlywantl.oplojlhj dtoyojslsoyst,
ojpls.tklioiitploldmssdt,lxhslSawlyomp:

“B.k,lms'ylvhysloyltoyk!lMrlM'plolnjabtpls.mylboylodd,lM'ploldtoujsldaji
oiac”

“YalbahdplM,”lyomplVatcl“Ms'ylvhysljas.mjic”

“B.k,lwojklolsmwtlM'qtldaantplosl ta dtlywanmji,lojpls.ahi.slbtddlMlbmy.
Mleahdplpals.os;lxhslMljtqtuls.ahi.slMleahdp,”lyomplSawc

“S.os'ylvhysls.tlboklbms.lwt,l.omj'slms,l.hen?lKah'qtl.touplwtlsodnlvhys
s.oslbok--.oqtj'slkah,l.hen?lM'ddldtoqtlmslsal.henlmrlMl.oqtj'sc”

“Kty--.to ylarlsmwty,”lyompl.henc

“Btdd,lMl.oqtlsaa,”lyomplSaw;l“a.,l.hjputpylarlsmwtyclAjetlpabjlxkls.t
ydohi.stu-.ahytclPaj'slkahlutwtwxtu,l.hen?lXaxlSojjtulboyls.tut,lojp
Va.jjklWmddtu,lojplVtrrlS.ose.tu,lb.tjlMlyomplmsclPaj'slkahlutwtwxtu,
.hen,l'xahslwtlyokmjils.os?”

“Kty,ls.os'ylya,”lyompl.hencl“S.oslboyls.tlpoklorstulMldayslolb.mst
oddtkclJa,l'sboyls.tlpoklxtrautc”

“S.tut--Mlsadplkahlya,”lyomplSawcl“.henluteaddtesylmsc”

“MlxdttqtlMleahdplywantls.myl m tloddlpok,”lyomplVatcl“Mlpaj'slrttd
ymenc”

“Jtms.tulpalM,”lyomplSawcl“MleahdplywantlmsloddlpokclXhslMlxtslkahlVtrr
S.ose.tuleahdpj'sc”

“VtrrlS.ose.tu!lB.k,l.t'plnttdlaqtulvhyslbms.lsbalpuobyclVhysldtsl.mw
suklmslajetcl_.t'p_lytt!”

“Mlxtsl.tlbahdpclOjplVa.jjklWmddtu--Mlbmy.leahdplyttlVa.jjklWmddtulsoendt
mslajetc”

“A.,lpaj'slM!”lyomplVatcl“B.k,lMlxtslkahlVa.jjklWmddtuleahdpj'slojklwaut
pals.myls.ojljas.mjiclVhyslajtldmssdtlyjmrstulbahdplrtse.l_.mw_c”

“'Pttplmslbahdp,lVatclYok--Mlbmy.ls.tlxakyleahdplyttlhyljabc”

“YalpalMc”

“Yok--xaky,lpaj'slyoklojks.mjiloxahslms,lojplyawtlsmwtlb.tjls.tk'ut
ouahjp,lM'ddleawtlh lsalkahlojplyok,l'Vat,liaslol m t?lMlbojslolywantc'
Ojplkah'ddlyok,lnmjplarleoutdtyyldmnt,loylmrlmslbouj'slojks.mji,lkah'dd
yok,l'Kty,lMliaslwkl_adp_l m t,lojplojas.tulajt,lxhslwklsaxoentulomj's
qtukliaapc'lOjplM'ddlyok,l'A.,ls.os'yloddlumi.s,lmrlms'yl_ysuaji_
tjahi.c'lOjpls.tjlkah'ddlahslbms.ls.tl m ty,lojplbt'ddldmi.slh lvhysloy
eo'w,lojpls.tjlvhyslyttl'twldaan!”

“Xklvmjiy,ls.os'ddlxtliok,lSaw!lMlbmy.lmslboyl_jab_!”

“YalpalM!lOjplb.tjlbtlstddl'twlbtldtoujtplb.tjlbtlboylarrl muosmji,
baj'sls.tklbmy.ls.tk'plxttjlodaji?”

“A.,lMlutenajljas!lM'ddlvhysl_xts_ls.tklbmdd!”

Yals.tlsodnluojlajclXhsl utytjsdklmslxtiojlsalrdoilolsumrdt,lojp
iuablpmyvamjstpclS.tlymdtjetylbmptjtp;ls.tltz tesauosmajlwouqtddahydk
mjeutoytpclTqtukl autlmjymptls.tlxaky'le.ttnylxteowtloly ahsmji
rahjsomj;ls.tkleahdplyeouetdklxomdlahsls.tletddouylhjptuls.tmulsajihty
roysltjahi.lsal utqtjslojlmjhjposmaj;ldmssdtlaqturdabmjiylpabjls.tmu
s.uaosylaeehuutplmjly mstlarloddls.tkleahdplpa,lojplyhpptjlutse.mjiy
raddabtpltqtuklsmwtclXas.lxakylbtutldaanmjilqtukl odtlojplwmytuoxdt,
jabclVat'yl m tlpua  tplruawl.myljtuqtdtyylrmjituyclSaw'ylraddabtpclXas.
rahjsomjylbtutliamjilrhumahydklojplxas.l hw ylxomdmjilbms.lwmi.slojp
womjclVatlyomplrttxdk:

“M'qtldayslwklnjmrtclMlutenajlMlxtsstulialojplrmjplmsc”

Sawlyomp,lbms.lghmqtumjildm ylojpl.odsmjilhsstuojet:

“M'ddl.td lkahclKahlialaqtuls.oslboklojplM'ddl.hjslouahjplxkls.tly umjic
Ja,lkahljttpj'sleawt,l.hen--btleojlrmjplmsc”

Yal.henlyoslpabjloiomj,lojplbomstplojl.ahuclS.tjl.tlrahjplmsldajtyawt,
ojplbtjslsalrmjpl.myleawuoptyclS.tklbtutlbmptlo ouslmjls.tlbaapy,lxas.
qtukl odt,lxas.lroysloydtt clXhslyawts.mjilmjrauwtpl.mwls.oslmrls.tkl.op
.oplojklsuahxdtls.tkl.opliaslumplarlmsc

S.tklbtutljaslsodnosmqtloslyh  tuls.osljmi.sclS.tkl.oplol.hwxdtldaan,
ojplb.tjl.henl ut outpl.myl m tlorstuls.tlwtodlojplboyliamjilsal ut out
s.tmuy,ls.tklyomplja,ls.tklbtutljaslrttdmjilqtuklbtdd--yawts.mjils.tklost
oslpmjjtul.oplpmyoiuttplbms.ls.twc

Oxahslwmpjmi.slVatlobant,lojpleoddtpls.tlxakyclS.tutlboylolxuaapmji
a  utyymqtjtyylmjls.tlomuls.oslyttwtplsalxaptlyawts.mjiclS.tlxaky
.hppdtpls.twytdqtylsaits.tulojplyahi.sls.tlrumtjpdkleaw ojmajy.m lar
s.tlrmut,ls.ahi.ls.tlphddlptopl.toslarls.tlxutos.dtyylosway .tutlboy
ysmrdmjiclS.tklyoslysmdd,lmjstjslojplbomsmjiclS.tlyadtwjl.hy.leajsmjhtpc
Xtkajpls.tldmi.slarls.tlrmutltqtuks.mjilboylyboddabtplh lmjls.t
xdoenjtyylarlpounjtyycl utytjsdkls.tutleowtlolghmqtumjilidabls.os
qoihtdklutqtodtpls.tlradmoitlraulolwawtjslojpls.tjlqojmy.tpclXklojplxk
ojas.tuleowt,loldmssdtlysuajituclS.tjlojas.tuclS.tjlolromjslwaojleowt
ymi.mjils.uahi.ls.tlxuoje.tylarls.tlrautyslojpls.tlxakylrtdslolrdttsmji
xutos.lh ajls.tmule.ttny,lojply.hpptutplbms.ls.tlrojekls.osls.tlY mums
arls.tlJmi.sl.opliajtlxkclS.tutlboylol ohytclJablolbtmuplrdoy.lshujtp
jmi.slmjsalpoklojply.abtpltqtukldmssdtliuoyyxdopt,lyt ouostlojp
pmysmjes,ls.osliutbloxahsls.tmulrttsclOjplmsly.abtpls.uttlb.mst,
ysousdtplroety,lsaaclOlptt l todlarls.hjptulbtjsluaddmjilojplshwxdmji
pabjls.tl.toqtjylojpldayslmsytdrlmjlyhddtjluhwxdmjiylmjls.tlpmysojetclO
ybtt larle.mddklomul oyytplxk,luhysdmjiloddls.tldtoqtylojplyjabmjils.t
rdonkloy.tylxuaopeoysloxahsls.tlrmutclOjas.tulrmtuetlidoutldmslh ls.t
rautyslojplojlmjysojsleuoy.lraddabtpls.oslyttwtplsalutjpls.tlsuttsa y
umi.slaqtuls.tlxaky'l.topyclS.tkledhjilsaits.tulmjlstuuau,lmjls.tls.men
idaawls.oslraddabtpclOlrtblxmiluomjpua ylrtddl osstumjilh ajls.tldtoqtyc

“Ghmen!lxaky,lialrauls.tlstjs!”ltzedomwtplSawc

S.tkly uojilobok,lyshwxdmjilaqtuluaasylojplowajilqmjtylmjls.tlpoun,lja
sbal dhjimjilmjls.tlyowtlpmutesmajclOlrhumahylxdoysluaoutpls.uahi.
s.tlsutty,lwonmjiltqtuks.mjilymjiloylmslbtjsclAjtlxdmjpmjilrdoy.lorstu
ojas.tuleowt,lojpl todlajl todlarlptortjmjils.hjptuclOjpljablolputje.mji
uomjl ahutplpabjlojpls.tlumymjil.huumeojtlpuaqtlmslmjly.ttsylodajils.t
iuahjpclS.tlxakyleumtplahslsaltoe.las.tu,lxhsls.tluaoumjilbmjplojpls.t
xaawmjils.hjptuxdoysylpuabjtpls.tmulqametylhsstudkcl.abtqtu,lajtlxklajt
s.tklysuoiidtplmjlosldoyslojplsaanly.tdstulhjptuls.tlstjs,leadp,lyeoutp,
ojplysutowmjilbms.lbostu;lxhslsal.oqtleaw ojklmjlwmytuklyttwtplyawts.mji
salxtliuostrhdlrauclS.tkleahdpljaslsodn,ls.tladplyomdlrdo  tplya
rhumahydk,ltqtjlmrls.tlas.tuljamytylbahdpl.oqtloddabtpls.twclS.tlstw tys
uaytl.mi.tulojpl.mi.tu,lojpl utytjsdkls.tlyomdlsautldaaytlruawlmsy
roystjmjiylojplbtjslbmjimjiloboklajls.tlxdoysclS.tlxakylytmftpltoe.
as.tuy'l.ojpylojplrdtp,lbms.lwojklshwxdmjiylojplxuhmyty,lsals.tly.tdstu
arloliutoslaonls.oslysaaplh ajls.tlumqtuxojnclJabls.tlxossdtlboyloslmsy
.mi.tysclHjptuls.tletoytdtyyleajrdoiuosmajlarldmi.sjmjils.oslrdowtp
mjls.tlynmty,ltqtuks.mjilxtdablysaaplahslmjledtojehslojply.opabdtyy
pmysmjesjtyy:ls.tlxtjpmjilsutty,ls.tlxmddabklumqtu,lb.mstlbms.lraow,ls.t
pumqmjily uoklarly hwtrdonty,ls.tlpmwlahsdmjtylarls.tl.mi.lxdhrrylaj
s.tlas.tulympt,lidmw ytpls.uahi.ls.tlpumrsmjiledahpuoenlojpls.tlydojsmji
qtmdlarluomjclTqtukldmssdtlb.mdtlyawtlimojslsuttlkmtdptpls.tlrmi.s
ojplrtddleuoy.mjils.uahi.ls.tlkahjituliuabs.;lojpls.tlhjrdoiimji
s.hjptu todyleowtljablmjltou-y dmssmjiltz daymqtlxhuysy,lnttjlojply.ou ,
ojplhjy tonoxdklo  oddmjiclS.tlysauwlehdwmjostplmjlajtlwose.dtyyltrraus
s.oslyttwtpldmntdklsalstouls.tlmydojplsal mtety,lxhujlmslh ,lpuabjlmslsa
s.tlsuttsa y,lxdablmslobok,lojplptortjltqtukleutoshutlmjlms,loddloslajt
ojpls.tlyowtlwawtjsclMslboylolbmdpljmi.slraul.awtdtyylkahjil.topylsalxt
ahslmjc

Xhslosldoysls.tlxossdtlboylpajt,lojpls.tlrauetylutsmutplbms.lbtontulojp
btontuls.utostjmjiylojpliuhwxdmjiy,lojpl toetlutyhwtpl.tulybokclS.t
xakylbtjslxoenlsaleow ,loliaaplptodlobtp;lxhsls.tklrahjpls.tutlboylysmdd
yawts.mjilsalxtls.ojnrhdlrau,lxteohytls.tliutoslykeowaut,ls.tly.tdstu
arls.tmulxtpy,lboyloluhmj,ljab,lxdoystplxkls.tldmi.sjmjiy,lojpls.tklbtut
jaslhjptulmslb.tjls.tleosoysua .tl.o  tjtpc

Tqtuks.mjilmjleow lboylputje.tp,ls.tleow rmutloylbtdd;lrauls.tklbtutlxhs
.ttpdtyyldopy,ldmntls.tmulitjtuosmaj,lojpl.oplwoptljal uaqmymajloiomjys
uomjcl.tutlboylwosstulraulpmywok,lrauls.tklbtutlyaontpls.uahi.lojp
e.mddtpclS.tklbtutltdaghtjslmjls.tmulpmysutyy;lxhsls.tkl utytjsdk
pmyeaqtutpls.osls.tlrmutl.opltostjlyalroulh lhjptuls.tliutosldailmsl.op
xttjlxhmdsloiomjysl(b.tutlmslehuqtplh bouplojplyt ouostplmsytdrlruaw
s.tliuahjp),ls.oslol.ojpxutops.laulyalarlmsl.opltyeo tplbtssmji;lyals.tk
 osmtjsdklbuahi.slhjsmd,lbms.ly.utpylojplxounlios.tutplruawls.tlhjptu
ymptylarly.tdstutpldaiy,ls.tkleaoztpls.tlrmutlsalxhujloiomjclS.tjls.tk
 mdtplajliutoslptoplxahi.ylsmddls.tkl.oploluaoumjilrhujoet,lojplbtut
idop.toustplajetlwautclS.tklpumtpls.tmulxamdtpl.owlojpl.oplolrtoys,
ojplorstuls.osls.tklyoslxkls.tlrmutlojpltz ojptplojplidaumrmtpls.tmu
wmpjmi.slopqtjshutlhjsmdlwaujmji,lrauls.tutlboyljaslolpukly aslsalydtt 
aj,lojkb.tutlouahjpc

Oyls.tlyhjlxtiojlsalystodlmjlh ajls.tlxaky,lpuabymjtyyleowtlaqtu
s.tw,lojpls.tklbtjslahslajls.tlyojpxoulojpldoklpabjlsalydtt clS.tklias
yeaue.tplahslxklojplxk,lojplputoumdklytsloxahslitssmjilxutonroysclOrstu
s.tlwtodls.tklrtdsluhysk,lojplysmrr-vamjstp,lojploldmssdtl.awtymenlajet
wautclSawlyobls.tlymijy,lojplrtddlsale.ttumjilh ls.tl muostyloylbtddloy
.tleahdpclXhsls.tkleoutpljas.mjilraulwouxdty,laulemuehy,laulybmwwmji,lau
ojks.mjicl.tlutwmjptpls.twlarls.tlmw aymjilyteuts,lojpluomytploluoklar
e.ttuclB.mdtlmsldoystp,l.tliasls.twlmjstutystplmjloljtblptqmetclS.mylboy
salnjaenlarrlxtmjil muosty,lraulolb.mdt,lojplxtlMjpmojylraulole.ojitc
S.tklbtutlossuoestplxkls.mylmpto;lyalmslboyljasldajilxtrautls.tklbtut
ysum  tp,lojplysum tplruawl.toplsal.ttdlbms.lxdoenlwhp,ldmntlyalwojk
ftxuoy--oddlarls.twle.mtry,larleahuyt--ojpls.tjls.tklbtjslstoumjils.uahi.
s.tlbaapylsalossoenlojlTjidmy.lytssdtwtjsc

Xklojplxkls.tklyt ouostplmjsals.uttl.aysmdtlsumxty,lojplpoustplh ajltoe.
as.tulruawlowxhy.lbms.lputoprhdlboub.aa y,lojplnmddtplojplyeod tpltoe.
as.tulxkls.ahyojpyclMslboyloliauklpokclEajytghtjsdklmslboylojltzsutwtdk
yosmyroesauklajtc

S.tkloyytwxdtplmjleow lsabouplyh  tusmwt,l.hjiuklojpl.o  k;lxhsljab
olpmrrmehdsklouayt--.aysmdtlMjpmojyleahdpljaslxutonls.tlxutoplar
.ay msodmsklsaits.tulbms.ahslrmuyslwonmjil toet,lojpls.mylboylolymw dt
mw ayymxmdmsklbms.ahslywanmjilol m tlarl toetclS.tutlboyljalas.tu
 uaetyyls.osltqtuls.tkl.opl.touplarclSbalarls.tlyoqoitylodwayslbmy.tp
s.tkl.oplutwomjtpl muostycl.abtqtu,ls.tutlboyljalas.tulbok;lyalbms.lyhe.
y.ablarle.tturhdjtyyloyls.tkleahdplwhystuls.tkleoddtplrauls.tl m tlojp
saanls.tmulb.mrrloylmsl oyytp,lmjlphtlrauwc

Ojplxt.adp,ls.tklbtutlidopls.tkl.opliajtlmjsalyoqoituk,lrauls.tkl.op
iomjtplyawts.mji;ls.tklrahjpls.osls.tkleahdpljablywantloldmssdtlbms.ahs
.oqmjilsalialojpl.hjslrauloldayslnjmrt;ls.tklpmpljaslitslymenltjahi.lsa
xtlytumahydklhjeawrausoxdtclS.tklbtutljasldmntdklsalraadlobokls.myl.mi.
 uawmytlrauldoenlarltrrausclJa,ls.tkl uoesmytpleohsmahydk,lorstulyh  tu,
bms.lumi.slromulyheetyy,lojplyals.tkly tjslolvhxmdojsltqtjmjiclS.tklbtut
 uahptulojpl.o  mtulmjls.tmuljtbloeghmutwtjsls.ojls.tklbahdpl.oqtlxttj
mjls.tlyeod mjilojplynmjjmjilarls.tlYmzlJosmajyclBtlbmddldtoqtls.twlsa
ywantlojple.osstulojplxuoi,lymjetlbtl.oqtljalrhus.tulhytlrauls.twlos
 utytjsc




E.O STUlZQMM

XHSls.tutlboyljal.mdoumsklmjls.tldmssdtlsabjls.oslyowtlsuojghmdlYoshupok
orstujaajclS.tl.ou tuy,lojplOhjsl addk'ylrowmdk,lbtutlxtmjil hslmjsa
wahujmji,lbms.liutosliumtrlojplwojklstouyclOjlhjhyhodlghmtsl ayytyytp
s.tlqmddoit,lods.ahi.lmslboylaupmjoumdklghmtsltjahi.,lmjloddleajyemtjetc
S.tlqmddoituyleajphestpls.tmuleajetujylbms.lojloxytjslomu,lojplsodntp
dmssdt;lxhsls.tklymi.tplarstjclS.tlYoshupokl.admpoklyttwtplolxhuptjlsa
s.tle.mdputjclS.tkl.opljal.touslmjls.tmuly ausy,lojpliuophoddklioqtls.tw
h c

Mjls.tlorstujaajlXtenklS.ose.tulrahjpl.tuytdrlwa mjiloxahsls.tlptytustp
ye.aad.ahytlkoup,lojplrttdmjilqtuklwtdoje.adkclXhsly.tlrahjpljas.mji
s.tutlsaleawrausl.tuclY.tlyadmdaghmftp:

“A.,lmrlMlajdkl.oplolxuoyylojpmuaj-njaxloiomj!lXhslMl.oqtj'slias
ojks.mjiljablsalutwtwxtul.mwlxkc”lOjply.tle.antplxoenloldmssdtlyaxc

 utytjsdkly.tlysa  tp,lojplyomplsal.tuytdr:

“Mslboylumi.sl.tutclA.,lmrlmslboylsalpalaqtuloiomj,lMlbahdpj'slyok
s.os--Mlbahdpj'slyoklmslrauls.tlb.adtlbaudpclXhsl.t'yliajtljab;lM'dd
jtqtu,ljtqtu,ljtqtulyttl.mwlojklwautc”

S.myls.ahi.slxuantl.tulpabj,lojply.tlbojptutplobok,lbms.lstouyluaddmji
pabjl.tule.ttnyclS.tjlghmstloliuah larlxakylojplimudy-- dokwostylarlSaw'y
ojplVat'y--eowtlxk,lojplysaapldaanmjilaqtuls.tl odmjilrtjetlojplsodnmji
mjlutqtutjslsajtylarl.ablSawlpmplya-ojp-yals.tldoyslsmwtls.tklyob
.mw,lojpl.ablVatlyompls.mylojpls.oslywoddlsumrdtl( utijojslbms.lobrhd
 ua .tek,loyls.tkleahdpltoymdklyttljab!)--ojpltoe.ly tontul amjstplahs
s.tltzoesly aslb.tutls.tldaysldopylysaaplosls.tlsmwt,lojpls.tjlopptp
yawts.mjildmntl“ojplMlboylo-ysojpmjilvhyslya--vhysloylMlowljab,lojploylmr
kahlboyl.mw--Mlboyloyledaytloyls.os--ojpl.tlywmdtp,lvhysls.mylbok--ojpls.tj
yawts.mjilyttwtplsalialoddlaqtulwt,ldmnt--obrhd,lkahlnjab--ojplMljtqtu
s.ahi.slb.oslmslwtojs,larleahuyt,lxhslMleojlyttljab!”

S.tjls.tutlboylolpmy hstloxahslb.alyobls.tlptoplxakyldoyslmjldmrt,lojp
wojkledomwtpls.oslpmywodlpmysmjesmaj,lojplarrtutpltqmptjety,lwautlau
dtyylsow tutplbms.lxkls.tlbmsjtyy;lojplb.tjlmslboylhdsmwostdklptemptp
b.al_pmp_lyttls.tlpt oustpldoys,lojpltze.ojitpls.tldoyslbaupylbms.ls.tw,
s.tldhenkl ousmtylsaanlh ajls.twytdqtylolyauslarlyoeutplmw ausojet,
ojplbtutlio tploslojpltjqmtplxkloddls.tlutysclAjtl aaule.o ,lb.al.op
jalas.tuliuojpthulsalarrtu,lyomplbms.lsadtuoxdklwojmrtysl umptlmjls.t
utwtwxuojet:

“Btdd,lSawlYobktul.tldmentplwtlajetc”

Xhsls.oslxmplraulidauklboylolromdhutclWayslarls.tlxakyleahdplyokls.os,
ojplyals.osle.to tjtpls.tlpmysmjesmajlsaalwhe.clS.tliuah ldamstutplobok,
ysmddluteoddmjilwtwaumtylarls.tldaysl.tuaty,lmjlobtplqametyc

B.tjls.tlYhjpok-ye.aadl.ahulboylrmjmy.tp,ls.tljtzslwaujmji,ls.tlxtdd
xtiojlsalsadd,lmjystoplarlumjimjilmjls.tlhyhodlbokclMslboylolqtuklysmdd
Yoxxos.,lojpls.tlwahujrhdlyahjplyttwtplmjlntt mjilbms.ls.tlwhymjil.hy.
s.osldoklh ajljoshutclS.tlqmddoituylxtiojlsalios.tu,ldamstumjilolwawtjs
mjls.tlqtysmxhdtlsaleajqtuytlmjlb.my tuyloxahsls.tlyopltqtjsclXhsls.tut
boyljalb.my tumjilmjls.tl.ahyt;lajdkls.tlrhjtutodluhysdmjilarlputyyty
oyls.tlbawtjlios.tutplsals.tmulytosylpmyshuxtpls.tlymdtjetls.tutclJajt
eahdplutwtwxtulb.tjls.tldmssdtle.hue.l.oplxttjlyalrhddlxtrautclS.tut
boylrmjoddklolbomsmjil ohyt,lojltz tesojslphwxjtyy,lojpls.tjlOhjsl addk
tjstutp,lraddabtplxklYmplojplWouk,lojpls.tklxkls.tl.ou tulrowmdk,loddlmj
ptt lxdoen,lojpls.tlb.adtleajiutiosmaj,ls.tladplwmjmystuloylbtdd,luayt
utqtutjsdklojplysaaplhjsmdls.tlwahujtuylbtutlytostplmjls.tlruajsl tbc
S.tutlboylojas.tuleawwhjmjilymdtjet,lxuantjloslmjstuqodylxklwhrrdtp
yaxy,lojpls.tjls.tlwmjmystuly utopl.myl.ojpyloxuaoplojpl uoktpclOlwaqmji
.kwjlboylyhji,lojpls.tlstzslraddabtp:l“Mlowls.tlUtyhuutesmajlojpls.t
Dmrtc”

Oyls.tlytuqmetl uaettptp,ls.tledtuikwojlputblyhe.l meshutylarls.t
iuoety,ls.tlbmjjmjilboky,lojpls.tluoutl uawmytlarls.tldaysldopyls.os
tqtuklyahdls.tut,ls.mjnmjil.tluteaijmftpls.tytl meshuty,lrtdslol oji
mjlutwtwxtumjils.osl.tl.opl tuymystjsdklxdmjptpl.mwytdrlsals.twlodboky
xtraut,lojpl.oployl tuymystjsdklyttjlajdklrohdsylojplrdobylmjls.tl aau
xakyclS.tlwmjmystulutdostplwojklolsahe.mjilmjemptjslmjls.tldmqtylarls.t
pt oustp,lsaa,lb.me.lmddhysuostpls.tmulybtts,litjtuahyljoshuty,lojpls.t
 ta dtleahdpltoymdklytt,ljab,l.abljaxdtlojplxtohsmrhdls.aytlt myapty
btut,lojplutwtwxtutplbms.liumtrls.oslosls.tlsmwtls.tklaeehuutpls.tkl.op
yttwtpluojnluoyeodmsmty,lbtddlptytuqmjilarls.tleab.mptclS.tleajiutiosmaj
xteowtlwautlojplwautlwaqtp,loyls.tl os.tsmelsodtlbtjslaj,lsmddlosldoys
s.tlb.adtleaw ojklxuantlpabjlojplvamjtpls.tlbtt mjilwahujtuylmjlole.auhy
arlojihmy.tplyaxy,ls.tl utoe.tul.mwytdrlimqmjilboklsal.mylrttdmjiy,lojp
eukmjilmjls.tl hd msc

S.tutlboyloluhysdtlmjls.tlioddtuk,lb.me.ljaxapkljasmetp;lolwawtjsldostu
s.tle.hue.lpaauleutontp;ls.tlwmjmystuluomytpl.mylysutowmjiltktyloxaqt
.myl.ojpntue.mtr,lojplysaaplsuojyrmztp!lRmuyslajtlojpls.tjlojas.tul omu
arltktylraddabtpls.tlwmjmystu'y,lojpls.tjlodwayslbms.lajtlmw hdytls.t
eajiutiosmajluaytlojplysoutplb.mdtls.tls.uttlptoplxakyleowtlwoue.mjilh 
s.tlomydt,lSawlmjls.tldtop,lVatljtzs,lojpl.hen,loluhmjlarlpuaa mjiluoiy,
yjtonmjily.tt my.dklmjls.tlutou!lS.tkl.oplxttjl.mplmjls.tlhjhytplioddtuk
dmystjmjilsals.tmulabjlrhjtuodlytuwaj!

Ohjsl addk,lWouk,lojpls.tl.ou tuyls.utbls.twytdqtylh ajls.tmulutysautp
ajty,lywas.tutpls.twlbms.lnmyytylojpl ahutplahsls.ojnyimqmjiy,lb.mdt
 aaul.henlysaaploxoy.tplojplhjeawrausoxdt,ljaslnjabmjiltzoesdklb.os
salpalaulb.tutlsal.mptlruawlyalwojklhjbtdeawmjiltktycl.tlboqtutp,lojp
ysoustplsalydmjnlobok,lxhslSawlytmftpl.mwlojplyomp:

“Ohjsl addk,lmslomj'slromuclYawtxapk'yliaslsalxtlidoplsalyttl.henc”

“Ojplyals.tkly.oddclM'wlidoplsalyttl.mw,l aaulwas.tudtyyls.mji!”lOjp
s.tldaqmjilosstjsmajylOhjsl addkldoqmy.tplh ajl.mwlbtutls.tlajtls.mji
eo oxdtlarlwonmjil.mwlwautlhjeawrausoxdtls.ojl.tlboylxtrautc

Yhpptjdkls.tlwmjmystuly.ahstplosls.tlsa larl.mylqamet:l“ uomytlIaplruaw
b.awloddlxdtyymjiylrdab--_ymji_!--ojpl hslkahul.tousylmjlms!”

Ojpls.tklpmpclAdpl.hjputplybtddtplh lbms.lolsumhw .ojslxhuys,lojp
b.mdtlmsly.aanls.tluorstuylSawlYobktuls.tl muostldaantplouahjplh ajls.t
tjqkmjilvhqtjmdtyloxahsl.mwlojpleajrtyytplmjl.myl.tousls.osls.mylboyls.t
 uahptyslwawtjslarl.myldmrtc

Oyls.tl“yadp”leajiutiosmajlsuaa tplahsls.tklyompls.tklbahdplodwayslxt
bmddmjilsalxtlwoptlumpmehdahyloiomjlsal.toulAdpl.hjputplyhjildmntls.os
ajetlwautc

Sawliaslwautlehrrylojplnmyytyls.oslpok--oeeaupmjilsalOhjsl addk'ylqoukmji
waapy--s.ojl.tl.opltoujtplxtrautlmjlolktou;lojpl.tl.oupdklnjtblb.me.
tz utyytpls.tlwaysliuostrhdjtyylsalIaplojplorrtesmajlraul.mwytdrc




E.O STUlZQMMM

S.OSlboylSaw'yliutoslyteuts--s.tlye.twtlsalutshujl.awtlbms.l.mylxuas.tu
 muostylojplosstjpls.tmulabjlrhjtuodyclS.tkl.opl oppdtplaqtulsals.t
Wmyyahumly.autlajloldai,loslphynlajlYoshupok,ldojpmjilrmqtlaulymzlwmdty
xtdabls.tlqmddoit;ls.tkl.oplydt slmjls.tlbaapylosls.tltpitlarls.tlsabj
smddljtoudklpokdmi.s,lojpl.opls.tjleut sls.uahi.lxoenldojtylojploddtky
ojplrmjmy.tpls.tmulydtt lmjls.tlioddtuklarls.tle.hue.lowajilole.oaylar
mjqodmptplxtje.tyc

Oslxutonroys,lWajpoklwaujmji,lOhjsl addklojplWouklbtutlqtukldaqmjilsa
Saw,lojplqtuklosstjsmqtlsal.mylbojsyclS.tutlboylojlhjhyhodlowahjslar
sodnclMjls.tleahuytlarlmslOhjsl addklyomp:

“Btdd,lMlpaj'slyoklmslboyj'slolrmjtlvant,lSaw,lsalntt ltqtukxapk
yhrrtumjil'wayslolbttnlyalkahlxakyl.oploliaaplsmwt,lxhslmslmylol msklkah
eahdplxtlyal.oup-.toustploylsaldtslwtlyhrrtulyaclMrlkahleahdpleawtlaqtu
ajloldailsalialsalkahulrhjtuod,lkahleahdpl.oqtleawtlaqtulojplimqtlwtlo
.mjslyawtlbokls.oslkahlbouj'slptop,lxhslajdkluhjlarrc”

“Kty,lkahleahdpl.oqtlpajtls.os,lSaw,”lyomplWouk;l“ojplMlxtdmtqtlkah
bahdplmrlkahl.opls.ahi.slarlmsc”

“Bahdplkah,lSaw?”lyomplOhjsl addk,l.tulroetldmi.smjilbmysrhddkcl“Yok,
jab,lbahdplkah,lmrlkah'pls.ahi.slarlms?”

“M--btdd,lMlpaj'slnjabcl'Sbahdpl'o'ly amdtpltqtuks.mjic”

“Saw,lMl.a tplkahldaqtplwtls.oslwhe.,”lyomplOhjsl addk,lbms.loliumtqtp
sajtls.oslpmyeawraustpls.tlxakcl“Mslbahdpl.oqtlxttjlyawts.mjilmrlkah'p
eoutpltjahi.lsal_s.mjn_larlms,ltqtjlmrlkahlpmpj'sl_pa_lmsc”

“Jab,lohjsmt,ls.oslomj'slojkl.ouw,”l dtoptplWouk;l“ms'ylajdklSaw'ylimppk
bok--.tlmylodbokylmjlyhe.loluhy.ls.osl.tljtqtuls.mjnylarlojks.mjic”

“Waut'yls.tl mskclYmplbahdpl.oqtls.ahi.sclOjplYmplbahdpl.oqtleawtlojp
_pajt_lms,lsaaclSaw,lkah'ddldaanlxoen,lyawtlpok,lb.tjlms'ylsaaldost,
ojplbmy.lkah'pleoutploldmssdtlwautlraulwtlb.tjlmslbahdpl.oqtleayslkahlya
dmssdtc”

“Jab,lohjsmt,lkahlnjablMlpaleoutlraulkah,”lyomplSawc

“M'plnjablmslxtsstulmrlkahloestplwautldmntlmsc”

“Mlbmy.ljablM'pls.ahi.s,”lyomplSaw,lbms.lolut tjsojslsajt;l“xhslMlputows
oxahslkah,lojkbokclS.os'ylyawts.mji,lomj'slms?”

“Mslomj'slwhe.--oleoslpatyls.oslwhe.--xhslms'ylxtsstuls.ojljas.mjiclB.os
pmplkahlputow?”

“B.k,lBtpjtypokljmi.slMlputowsls.oslkahlboylymssmjilaqtuls.tutlxkls.t
xtp,lojplYmplboylymssmjilxkls.tlbaapxaz,lojplWoukljtzslsal.mwc”

“Btdd,lyalbtlpmpclYalbtlodbokylpaclM'wlidoplkahulputowyleahdplsontltqtj
s.oslwhe.lsuahxdtloxahslhyc”

“OjplMlputowsls.oslVatl.ou tu'ylwas.tulboyl.tutc”

“B.k,ly.tlboyl.tut!lPmplkahlputowlojklwaut?”

“A.,ldasyclXhslms'ylyalpmw,ljabc”

“Btdd,lsuklsaluteaddtes--eoj'slkah?”

“Yawt.ablmslyttwylsalwtls.osls.tlbmjp--s.tlbmjplxdabtpls.t--s.t--”

“Sukl.ouptu,lSaw!lS.tlbmjplpmplxdablyawts.mjiclEawt!”

Sawl utyytpl.mylrmjituylajl.mylraut.toplojlojzmahylwmjhst,lojpls.tj
yomp:

“M'qtliaslmsljab!lM'qtliaslmsljab!lMslxdabtpls.tleojpdt!”

“Wtueklajlhy!lIalaj,lSaw--ialaj!”

“Ojplmslyttwylsalwtls.oslkahlyomp,l'B.k,lMlxtdmtqtls.osls.oslpaau--'”

“Ial_aj_,lSaw!”

“Vhysldtslwtlyshpklolwawtjs--vhyslolwawtjsclA.,lkty--kahlyomplkahlxtdmtqtp
s.tlpaaulboyla tjc”

“OylM'wlymssmjil.tut,lMlpmp!lPmpj'slM,lWouk!lIalaj!”

“Ojpls.tj--ojpls.tj--btddlMlbaj'slxtletusomj,lxhslmslyttwyldmntloylmrlkah
woptlYmplialojp--ojp--”

“Btdd?lBtdd?lB.oslpmplMlwontl.mwlpa,lSaw?lB.oslpmplMlwontl.mwlpa?”

“Kahlwoptl.mw--kah--A.,lkahlwoptl.mwly.hslmsc”

“Btdd,lrauls.tldojp'ylyont!lMljtqtul.toupls.tlxtoslarls.oslmjloddlwk
poky!lPaj'slstddl_wt_ls.tutlomj'slojks.mjilmjlputowy,lojklwautclYtutjk
.ou tuly.oddlnjablarls.mylxtrautlM'wlojl.ahuladptuclM'pldmntlsalyttl.tu
itslouahjpl_s.my_lbms.l.tuluhxxoitl'xahslyh tuysmsmajclIalaj,lSaw!”

“A.,lms'yloddlitssmjilvhysloylxumi.sloylpok,ljabclJtzslkahlyomplMlbouj's
_xop_,lajdklwmye.ttqahylojpl.ouhw-yeouhw,lojpljaslojklwautluty ajymxdt
s.oj--s.oj--Mls.mjnlmslboyloleads,laulyawts.mjic”

“Ojplyalmslboy!lBtdd,liaapjtyyliuoemahy!lIalaj,lSaw!”

“Ojpls.tjlkahlxtiojlsaleukc”

“YalMlpmpclYalMlpmpclJasls.tlrmuyslsmwt,ljtms.tuclOjpls.tj--”

“S.tjlWuycl.ou tuly.tlxtiojlsaleuk,lojplyomplVatlboylvhysls.tlyowt,lojp
y.tlbmy.tply.tl.opj'slb.m  tpl.mwlraulsonmjileutowlb.tjly.t'pls.uabtplms
ahsl.tulabjlytdr--”

“Saw!lS.tly tuumslboylh ajlkah!lKahlboylol ua .tykmji--s.os'ylb.oslkah
boylpamji!lDojplodmqt,lialaj,lSaw!”

“S.tjlYmpl.tlyomp--.tlyomp--”

“Mlpaj'sls.mjnlMlyomplojks.mji,”lyomplYmpc

“Ktylkahlpmp,lYmp,”lyomplWoukc

“Y.hslkahul.topylojpldtslSawlialaj!lB.oslpmpl.tlyok,lSaw?”

“.tlyomp--Ml_s.mjn_l.tlyompl.tl.a tplMlboylxtsstularrlb.tutlMlboyliajt
sa,lxhslmrlM'plxttjlxtsstulyawtsmwty--”

“_S.tut_,lp'kahl.touls.os!lMslboyl.mylqtuklbaupy!”

“Ojplkahly.hsl.mwlh ly.ou c”

“MldoklMlpmp!lS.tutlwhysl'o'lxttjlojlojitdls.tutclS.tutl_boy_lojlojitd
s.tut,lyawtb.tuty!”

“OjplWuycl.ou tulsadploxahslVatlyeoumjil.tulbms.lolrmuteuoentu,lojplkah
sadploxahsl tstulojpls.tl omj-nmddtu--”

“VhysloylsuhtloylMldmqt!”

“Ojpls.tjls.tutlboylolb.adtldaslarlsodnl'xahslpuoiimjils.tlumqtulraulhy,
ojpl'xahsl.oqmjils.tlrhjtuodlYhjpok,lojpls.tjlkahlojpladplWmyyl.ou tu
.hiitplojpleumtp,lojply.tlbtjsc”

“Msl.o  tjtplvhyslya!lMsl.o  tjtplvhyslya,loylyhutloylM'wlo-ymssmjilmj
s.tytlqtuklsuoenyclSaw,lkahleahdpj'slsadplmslwautldmntlmrlkah'pl'o'lyttj
ms!lOjpls.tjlb.os?lIalaj,lSaw!”

“S.tjlMls.ahi.slkahl uoktplraulwt--ojplMleahdplyttlkahlojpl.toultqtuk
bauplkahlyompclOjplkahlbtjslsalxtp,lojplMlboylyalyauukls.oslMlsaanlojp
buastlajlol mtetlarlykeowautlxoun,l'Btlomj'slptop--btloutlajdklarrlxtmji
 muosty,'lojpl hslmslajls.tlsoxdtlxkls.tleojpdt;lojpls.tjlkahldaantp
yaliaap,ldokmjils.tutloydtt ,ls.oslMls.ahi.slMlbtjslojpldtojtplaqtulojp
nmyytplkahlajls.tldm yc”

“Pmplkah,lSaw,l_pmp_lkah!lMlvhyslrauimqtlkahltqtuks.mjilrauls.os!”lOjp
y.tlytmftpls.tlxaklmjloleuhy.mjiltwxuoetls.oslwoptl.mwlrttdldmntls.t
ihmdsmtyslarlqmddomjyc

“Mslboylqtuklnmjp,ltqtjls.ahi.lmslboylajdklo--putow,”lYmplyadmdaghmftp
vhyslohpmxdkc

“Y.hslh ,lYmp!lOlxapklpatylvhysls.tlyowtlmjlolputowloyl.t'plpalmrl.tlboy
obontcl.tut'ylolxmilWmdhwlo  dtlM'qtlxttjlyoqmjilraulkah,lSaw,lmrlkah
boyltqtulrahjploiomj--jablial'dajilsalye.aadclM'wls.ojnrhdlsals.tliaap
IaplojplRos.tularlhyloddlM'qtliaslkahlxoen,ls.os'yldaji-yhrrtumjilojp
wtuemrhdlsals.twls.oslxtdmtqtlajl.mwlojplntt l.mylbaup,ls.ahi.liaapjtyy
njabylM'wlhjbaus.klarlms,lxhslmrlajdkls.tlbaus.klajtyliasl.mylxdtyymjiy
ojpl.opl.myl.ojplsal.td ls.twlaqtuls.tluahi.l doety,ls.tut'ylrtbltjahi.
bahdplywmdtl.tutlaultqtultjstulmjsal.mylutyslb.tjls.tldajiljmi.sleawtyc
Ial'dajilYmp,lWouk,lSaw--sontlkahuytdqtylarr--kah'qtl.tjptutplwtldaji
tjahi.c”

S.tle.mdputjldtrslraulye.aad,lojpls.tladpldopklsaleoddlajlWuycl.ou tu
ojplqojghmy.l.tulutodmywlbms.lSaw'ylwouqtddahylputowclYmpl.oplxtsstu
vhpiwtjsls.ojlsalhsstuls.tls.ahi.sls.oslboylmjl.mylwmjployl.tldtrsls.t
.ahytclMslboyls.my:l“ utsskls.mj--oyldajilolputowloyls.os,lbms.ahslojk
wmysontylmjlms!”

B.oslol.tualSawlboylxteawt,ljab!l.tlpmpljaslialynm  mjilojpl uojemji,
xhslwaqtplbms.lolpmijmrmtplyboiituloylxteowtlol muostlb.alrtdsls.osls.t
 hxdmeltktlboylajl.mwclOjplmjpttplmslboy;l.tlsumtpljaslsalyttwlsalytt
s.tldaanylaul.touls.tlutwounyloyl.tl oyytplodaji,lxhsls.tklbtutlraaplojp
pumjnlsal.mwclYwoddtulxakyls.ojl.mwytdrlrdaentplosl.myl.ttdy,loyl uahp
salxtlyttjlbms.l.mw,lojplsadtuostplxkl.mw,loylmrl.tl.oplxttjls.tlpuhwwtu
osls.tl.toplarlol uaetyymajlauls.tltdt .ojsldtopmjilolwtjoitumtlmjsa
sabjclXakylarl.mylabjlymftl utstjptpljaslsalnjabl.tl.oplxttjloboklos
odd;lxhsls.tklbtutleajyhwmjilbms.ltjqk,ljtqtus.tdtyyclS.tklbahdpl.oqt
imqtjlojks.mjilsal.oqtls.oslybous.klyhj-sojjtplynmjlarl.my,lojpl.my
idmsstumjiljasaumtsk;lojplSawlbahdpljasl.oqtl oustplbms.ltms.tulraulo
emuehyc

Oslye.aadls.tle.mdputjlwoptlyalwhe.larl.mwlojplarlVat,lojplptdmqtutp
yhe.ltdaghtjslopwmuosmajlruawls.tmultkty,ls.osls.tlsbal.tuatylbtut
jasldajilmjlxteawmjilmjyhrrtuoxdkl“yshen-h c”lS.tklxtiojlsalstddls.tmu
opqtjshutylsal.hjiukldmystjtuy--xhsls.tklajdklxtioj;lmslboyljaslo
s.mjildmntdklsal.oqtlojltjp,lbms.lmwoimjosmajyldmntls.tmuylsalrhujmy.
wostumodclOjplrmjoddk,lb.tjls.tkliaslahsls.tmul m tylojplbtjslytutjtdk
 hrrmjilouahjp,ls.tlqtuklyhwwmslarlidauklboylutoe.tpc

Sawlptemptpls.osl.tleahdplxtlmjpt tjptjslarlXtenklS.ose.tuljabclIdauk
boylyhrrmemtjscl.tlbahdpldmqtlraulidaukclJabls.osl.tlboylpmysmjihmy.tp,
wokxtly.tlbahdplxtlbojsmjilsal“wontlh c”lBtdd,ldtsl.tu--y.tly.ahdplytt
s.osl.tleahdplxtloylmjpmrrtutjsloylyawtlas.tul ta dtcl utytjsdkly.t
ouumqtpclSawl utstjptpljaslsalyttl.tucl.tlwaqtploboklojplvamjtploliuah 
arlxakylojplimudylojplxtiojlsalsodnclYaajl.tlaxytuqtpls.osly.tlboy
sum  mjiliokdklxoenlojplraus.lbms.lrdhy.tplroetlojplpojemjiltkty,
 utstjpmjilsalxtlxhykle.oymjilye.aadwosty,lojplyeutowmjilbms.ldohi.stu
b.tjly.tlwoptloleo shut;lxhsl.tljasmetpls.osly.tlodbokylwoptl.tu
eo shutylmjl.mylqmemjmsk,lojpls.osly.tlyttwtplsaleoysloleajyemahyltkt
mjl.mylpmutesmajloslyhe.lsmwty,lsaaclMsliuosmrmtploddls.tlqmemahylqojmsk
s.oslboylmjl.mw;lojplya,lmjystoplarlbmjjmjil.mw,lmslajdkl“ytsl.mwlh ”
ls.tlwautlojplwoptl.mwls.tlwautlpmdmitjslsaloqamplxtsuokmjils.osl.t
njtbly.tlboyloxahscl utytjsdkly.tlioqtlaqtulynkdounmji,lojplwaqtp
muutyadhstdkloxahs,lymi.mjilajetlaulsbmetlojplidojemjilrhusmqtdklojp
bmysrhddklsabouplSawclS.tjly.tlaxytuqtpls.osljablSawlboylsodnmjilwaut
 ousmehdoudklsalOwklDobutjetls.ojlsalojklajtltdytclY.tlrtdsloly.ou l oji
ojpliutblpmyshuxtplojplhjtoykloslajetclY.tlsumtplsalialobok,lxhsl.tu
rttslbtutlsutoe.tuahy,lojpleouumtpl.tulsals.tliuah lmjystopclY.tlyomplsa
olimudlodwaysloslSaw'yltdxab--bms.ly.owlqmqoemsk:

“B.k,lWouklOhysmj!lkahlxoplimud,lb.klpmpj'slkahleawtlsalYhjpok-ye.aad?”

“Mlpmpleawt--pmpj'slkahlyttlwt?”

“B.k,lja!lPmplkah?lB.tutlpmplkahlyms?”

“MlboylmjlWmyyl tstuy'ledoyy,lb.tutlMlodbokyliaclMlyobl_kah_c”

“Pmplkah?lB.k,lms'ylrhjjklMlpmpj'slyttlkahclMlbojstplsalstddlkahloxahs
s.tl mejmec”

“A.,ls.os'ylvaddkclB.a'yliamjilsalimqtlms?”

“Wklwo'yliamjilsaldtslwtl.oqtlajtc”

“A.,liaapk;lMl.a tly.t'ddldtsl_wt_leawtc”

“Btdd,ly.tlbmddclS.tl mejme'ylraulwtclY.t'ddldtslojkxapkleawtls.oslM
bojs,lojplMlbojslkahc”

“S.os'yltqtulyaljmetclB.tjlmylmsliamjilsalxt?”

“XklojplxkclWokxtloxahslqoeosmajc”

“A.,lbaj'slmslxtlrhj!lKahliamjilsal.oqtloddls.tlimudylojplxaky?”

“Kty,ltqtuklajtls.os'ylrumtjpylsalwt--aulbojsylsalxt”;lojply.tlidojetp
tqtulyalrhusmqtdkloslSaw,lxhsl.tlsodntplumi.slodajilsalOwklDobutjet
oxahsls.tlstuumxdtlysauwlajls.tlmydojp,lojpl.abls.tldmi.sjmjilsautls.t
iutoslykeowautlsuttl“oddlsalrdmjptuy”lb.mdtl.tlboyl“ysojpmjilbms.mj
s.uttlrttslarlmsc”

“A.,lwoklMleawt?”lyomplIuoetlWmddtuc

“Ktyc”

“Ojplwt?”lyomplYoddklUaituyc

“Ktyc”

“Ojplwt,lsaa?”lyomplYhykl.ou tucl“OjplVat?”

“Ktyc”

Ojplyalaj,lbms.ledo  mjilarlvakrhdl.ojpylsmddloddls.tliuah l.oplxtiitp
raulmjqmsosmajylxhslSawlojplOwkclS.tjlSawlshujtpleaaddklobok,lysmdd
sodnmji,lojplsaanlOwklbms.l.mwclXtenk'yldm ylsutwxdtplojpls.tlstouy
eowtlsal.tultkty;ly.tl.mpls.tytlymijylbms.lolrauetplioktsklojplbtjslaj
e.osstumji,lxhsls.tldmrtl.opliajtlahslarls.tl mejme,ljab,lojplahslar
tqtuks.mjiltdyt;ly.tliaslobokloylyaajloyly.tleahdplojpl.mpl.tuytdrlojp
.oplb.osl.tulytzleoddl“oliaapleukc”lS.tjly.tlyoslwaapk,lbms.lbahjptp
 umpt,lsmddls.tlxtddluojiclY.tluahytplh ,ljab,lbms.lolqmjpmesmqtleoys
mjl.tultkt,lojplioqtl.tul domstplsomdyloly.ontlojplyomply.tlnjtblb.os
_y.t'p_lpac

OslutetyylSawleajsmjhtpl.mylrdmusosmajlbms.lOwklbms.lvhxmdojs
ytdr-yosmyroesmajclOjpl.tlnt slpumrsmjiloxahslsalrmjplXtenklojpldoetuost
.tulbms.ls.tl turauwojetclOsldoysl.tly mtpl.tu,lxhsls.tutlboylolyhpptj
roddmjilarl.mylwtuehukclY.tlboylymssmjileaymdklajloldmssdtlxtje.lxt.mjp
s.tlye.aad.ahytldaanmjiloslol meshut-xaanlbms.lOdrutplStw dt--ojplya
oxyauxtplbtutls.tk,lojpls.tmul.topylyaledaytlsaits.tulaqtuls.tlxaan,
s.osls.tklpmpljaslyttwlsalxtleajyemahylarlojks.mjilmjls.tlbaudplxtymptyc
Vtodahykluojlutp-.asls.uahi.lSaw'ylqtmjycl.tlxtiojlsal.ostl.mwytdrlrau
s.uabmjilobokls.tle.ojetlXtenkl.oplarrtutplrauloluteajemdmosmajcl.t
eoddtpl.mwytdrlolraad,lojploddls.tl.oupljowtyl.tleahdpls.mjnlarcl.t
bojstplsaleuklbms.lqtzosmajclOwkle.osstpl.o  mdklodaji,loyls.tklbodntp,
raul.tul.touslboylymjimji,lxhslSaw'ylsajihtl.opldayslmsylrhjesmajcl.t
pmpljasl.toulb.oslOwklboylyokmji,lojplb.tjtqtuly.tl ohytpltz tesojsdk
.tleahdplajdklysowwtulojlobnbouployytjs,lb.me.lboyloylarstjlwmy doetp
oylas.tubmytcl.tlnt slpumrsmjilsals.tlutoularls.tlye.aad.ahyt,loiomjlojp
oiomj,lsalytoul.myltktxoddylbms.ls.tl.ostrhdly tesoedtls.tutcl.tleahdp
jasl.td lmsclOjplmslwopptjtpl.mwlsalytt,loyl.tls.ahi.sl.tlyob,ls.os
XtenklS.ose.tuljtqtulajetlyhy testpls.osl.tlboyltqtjlmjls.tldojplarls.t
dmqmjiclXhsly.tlpmplytt,ljtqtus.tdtyy;lojply.tlnjtbly.tlboylbmjjmjil.tu
rmi.s,lsaa,lojplboylidoplsalyttl.mwlyhrrtuloyly.tl.oplyhrrtutpc

Owk'yl.o  kl uossdtlxteowtlmjsadtuoxdtclSawl.mjstplosls.mjiyl.tl.op
salosstjplsa;ls.mjiyls.oslwhyslxtlpajt;lojplsmwtlboylrdttsmjiclXhslmj
qomj--s.tlimudle.mu tplajclSawls.ahi.s,l“A.,l.ojil.tu,lomj'slMltqtuliamji
salitslumplarl.tu?”lOsldoysl.tlwhyslxtlosstjpmjilsals.aytls.mjiy--ojply.t
yomplousdtyydkls.osly.tlbahdplxtl“ouahjp”lb.tjlye.aadldtslahsclOjpl.t
.oystjtplobok,l.osmjil.tulraulmsc

“Ojklas.tulxak!”lSawls.ahi.s,liuosmjil.mylstts.cl“Ojklxaklmjls.tlb.adt
sabjlxhsls.oslYomjslDahmylywouskls.osls.mjnyl.tlputyytylyalrmjtlojplmy
oumysaeuoek!lA.,loddlumi.s,lMldmentplkahls.tlrmuyslpoklkahltqtulyobls.my
sabj,lwmystu,lojplM'ddldmenlkahloiomj!lKahlvhyslbomslsmddlMleose.lkah
ahs!lM'ddlvhyslsontlojp--”

Ojpl.tlbtjsls.uahi.ls.tlwasmajylarls.uoy.mjilojlmwoimjouklxak-- hwwtddmji
s.tlomu,lojplnmenmjilojpliahimjicl“A.,lkahlpa,lpalkah?lKahl.addtu
'jahi.,lpalkah?lJab,ls.tj,ldtsls.osldtoujlkah!”lOjplyals.tlmwoimjouk
rdaiimjilboylrmjmy.tplsal.mylyosmyroesmajc

Sawlrdtpl.awtlosljaajcl.myleajyemtjetleahdpljasltjphutlojklwautlarlOwk'y
iuostrhdl.o  mjtyy,lojpl.mylvtodahykleahdplxtouljalwautlarls.tlas.tu
pmysutyyclXtenklutyhwtpl.tul meshutlmjy tesmajylbms.lOdrutp,lxhsloyls.t
wmjhstylpuoiitplodajilojpljalSawleowtlsalyhrrtu,l.tulsumhw .lxtiojlsa
edahplojply.tldayslmjstutys;liuoqmsklojploxytjswmjptpjtyylraddabtp,
ojpls.tjlwtdoje.adk;lsbalauls.uttlsmwtyly.tl umentplh l.tultoulos
olraasyst ,lxhslmslboylolrodytl.a t;ljalSawleowtclOsldoysly.tliutb
tjsmutdklwmytuoxdtlojplbmy.tply.tl.opj'sleouumtplmslyalrouclB.tj
 aaulOdrutp,lyttmjils.osl.tlboyldaymjil.tu,l.tlpmpljaslnjabl.ab,lnt s
tzedomwmji:l“A.,l.tut'ylolvaddklajt!ldaanlosls.my!”ly.tldaysl osmtjetlos
doys,lojplyomp,l“A.,lpaj'slxas.tulwt!lMlpaj'sleoutlrauls.tw!”lojplxhuys
mjsalstouy,lojpliaslh lojplbodntplobokc

Odrutplpua  tplodajiymptlojplboyliamjilsalsuklsaleawrausl.tu,lxhsly.t
yomp:

“Ialoboklojpldtoqtlwtlodajt,leoj'slkah!lMl.ostlkah!”

Yals.tlxakl.odstp,lbajptumjilb.osl.tleahdpl.oqtlpajt--rauly.tl.oplyomp
y.tlbahdpldaanlosl meshutyloddls.uahi.ls.tljaajmji--ojply.tlbodntplaj,
eukmjiclS.tjlOdrutplbtjslwhymjilmjsals.tlptytustplye.aad.ahytcl.tlboy
.hwmdmostplojplojiukcl.tltoymdklihtyytpl.mylboklsals.tlsuhs.--s.tlimud
.oplymw dklwoptloleajqtjmtjetlarl.mwlsalqtjsl.tuly mstlh ajlSawlYobktuc
.tlboylroulruawl.osmjilSawls.tldtyylb.tjls.myls.ahi.slaeehuutplsal.mwc
.tlbmy.tpls.tutlboylyawtlboklsalitsls.oslxaklmjsalsuahxdtlbms.ahslwhe.
umynlsal.mwytdrclSaw'yly tddmji-xaanlrtddlhjptul.myltktcl.tutlboyl.my
a  aushjmskcl.tliuostrhddkla tjtplsals.tldtyyajlrauls.tlorstujaajlojp
 ahutplmjnlh ajls.tl oitc

Xtenk,lidojemjilmjloslolbmjpablxt.mjpl.mwlosls.tlwawtjs,lyobls.tloes,
ojplwaqtplaj,lbms.ahslpmyeaqtumjil.tuytdrclY.tlysoustpl.awtboup,ljab,
mjstjpmjilsalrmjplSawlojplstddl.mw;lSawlbahdplxtls.ojnrhdlojpls.tmu
suahxdtylbahdplxtl.todtpclXtrautly.tlboyl.odrlbokl.awt,l.abtqtu,ly.t
.ople.ojitpl.tulwmjpclS.tls.ahi.slarlSaw'ylsutoswtjslarl.tulb.tjly.tlboy
sodnmjiloxahsl.tul mejmeleowtlyeaue.mjilxoenlojplrmddtpl.tulbms.ly.owtc
Y.tlutyadqtplsaldtsl.mwlitslb.m  tplajls.tlpowoitply tddmji-xaan'y
oeeahjs,lojplsal.ostl.mwlrautqtu,lmjsals.tlxouiomjc




E.O STUlZMZ

SAWlouumqtplosl.awtlmjlolputouklwaap,lojpls.tlrmuysls.mjil.mylohjslyomp
sal.mwly.abtpl.mwls.osl.tl.oplxuahi.sl.mylyauuabylsalojlhj uawmymji
wounts:

“Saw,lM'qtloljasmajlsalynmjlkahlodmqt!”

“Ohjsmt,lb.osl.oqtlMlpajt?”

“Btdd,lkah'qtlpajtltjahi.cl.tutlMlialaqtulsalYtutjkl.ou tu,ldmntlojladp
yarsk,ltz tesmjilM'wliamjilsalwontl.tulxtdmtqtloddls.osluhxxoitloxahs
s.oslputow,lb.tjldalojplxt.adplkahly.t'plrahjplahslruawlVatls.oslkahlboy
aqtul.tutlojpl.touploddls.tlsodnlbtl.opls.osljmi.sclSaw,lMlpaj'slnjab
b.oslmylsalxteawtlarlolxakls.oslbmddloesldmntls.osclMslwontylwtlrttdlya
xoplsals.mjnlkahleahdpldtslwtlialsalYtutjkl.ou tulojplwontlyhe.lolraad
arlwkytdrlojpljtqtulyoklolbaupc”

S.mylboyloljtbloy teslarls.tls.mjicl.mylywousjtyylarls.tlwaujmjil.op
yttwtplsalSawloliaaplvantlxtraut,lojplqtuklmjitjmahyclMslwtutdkldaantp
wtojlojply.oxxkljabcl.tl.hjil.myl.toplojpleahdpljasls.mjnlarlojks.mjilsa
yoklraulolwawtjsclS.tjl.tlyomp:

“Ohjsmt,lMlbmy.lMl.opj'slpajtlms--xhslMlpmpj'sls.mjnc”

“A.,le.mdp,lkahljtqtuls.mjnclKahljtqtuls.mjnlarlojks.mjilxhslkahu
abjlytdrmy.jtyyclKahleahdpls.mjnlsaleawtloddls.tlboklaqtul.tutlruaw
Voenyaj'ylMydojplmjls.tljmi.slsaldohi.loslahulsuahxdty,lojplkahleahdp
s.mjnlsalraadlwtlbms.loldmtloxahslolputow;lxhslkahleahdpj'sltqtuls.mjn
sal msklhylojplyoqtlhylruawlyauuabc”

“Ohjsmt,lMlnjabljablmslboylwtoj,lxhslMlpmpj'slwtojlsalxtlwtojclMlpmpj's,
.ajtysclOjplxtympty,lMlpmpj'sleawtlaqtul.tutlsaldohi.loslkahls.os
jmi.sc”

“B.oslpmplkahleawtlrau,ls.tj?”

“Mslboylsalstddlkahljaslsalxtlhjtoykloxahslhy,lxteohytlbtl.opj'slias
puabjptpc”

“Saw,lSaw,lMlbahdplxtls.tls.ojnrhddtyslyahdlmjls.mylbaudplmrlMleahdp
xtdmtqtlkahltqtul.oployliaaplols.ahi.sloyls.os,lxhslkahlnjablkahljtqtu
pmp--ojplMlnjablms,lSawc”

“Mjpttplojpl'pttplMlpmp,lohjsmt--Mlbmy.lMlwokljtqtulysmulmrlMlpmpj'sc”

“A.,lSaw,lpaj'sldmt--paj'slpalmsclMslajdklwontyls.mjiylol.hjputplsmwty
bauytc”

“Mslomj'sloldmt,lohjsmt;lms'yls.tlsuhs.clMlbojstplsalntt lkahlruaw
iumtqmji--s.oslboyloddls.oslwoptlwtleawtc”

“M'plimqtls.tlb.adtlbaudplsalxtdmtqtls.os--mslbahdpleaqtulh lol abtu
arlymjy,lSawclM'pl'wayslxtlidoplkah'pluhjlarrlojploestplyalxopclXhslms
omj'slutoyajoxdt;lxteohyt,lb.klpmpj'slkahlstddlwt,le.mdp?”

“B.k,lkahlytt,lb.tjlkahliaslsalsodnmjiloxahsls.tlrhjtuod,lMlvhysliaslodd
rhddlarls.tlmptolarlahuleawmjilojpl.mpmjilmjls.tle.hue.,lojplMleahdpj's
yawt.ablxtoulsaly amdlmsclYalMlvhysl hsls.tlxounlxoenlmjlwkl aentslojp
nt slwhwc”

“B.oslxoun?”

“S.tlxounlMl.oplbuastlajlsalstddlkahlbt'pliajtl muosmjiclMlbmy.,ljab,
kah'plbontplh lb.tjlMlnmyytplkah--Mlpa,l.ajtysc”

S.tl.oupldmjtylmjl.mylohjs'ylroetlutdoztplojplolyhpptjlstjptujtyylpobjtp
mjl.tultktyc

“_Pmp_lkahlnmyylwt,lSaw?”

“B.k,lkty,lMlpmpc”

“Outlkahlyhutlkahlpmp,lSaw?”

“B.k,lkty,lMlpmp,lohjsmt--etusomjlyhutc”

“B.oslpmplkahlnmyylwtlrau,lSaw?”

“XteohytlMldaqtplkahlya,lojplkahldompls.tutlwaojmjilojplMlboylyalyauukc”

S.tlbaupylyahjptpldmntlsuhs.clS.tladpldopkleahdpljasl.mptlolsutwaulmj
.tulqametlb.tjly.tlyomp:

“Nmyylwtloiomj,lSaw!--ojplxtlarrlbms.lkahlsalye.aad,ljab,lojplpaj's
xas.tulwtlojklwautc”

S.tlwawtjsl.tlboyliajt,ly.tluojlsaloledaytslojpliaslahsls.tluhmjlarlo
voentslb.me.lSawl.opliajtl muosmjilmjclS.tjly.tlysa  tp,lbms.lmslmjl.tu
.ojp,lojplyomplsal.tuytdr:

“Ja,lMlpaj'slpoutcl aaulxak,lMlutenajl.t'yldmtploxahslms--xhslms'ylo
xdtyytp,lxdtyytpldmt,ls.tut'ylyhe.loleawrausleawtlruawlmsclMl.a t
s.tlDaup--Ml_njab_ls.tlDauplbmddlrauimqtl.mw,lxteohytlmslboylyhe.
iaap-.toustpjtyylmjl.mwlsalstddlmsclXhslMlpaj'slbojslsalrmjplahslms'ylo
dmtclMlbaj'sldaanc”

Y.tl hsls.tlvoentslobok,lojplysaaplxklwhymjilolwmjhstclSbmetly.tl hslahs
.tul.ojplsalsontls.tliouwtjsloiomj,lojplsbmetly.tlutruomjtpclAjetlwaut
y.tlqtjshutp,lojpls.mylsmwtly.tlrausmrmtpl.tuytdrlbms.ls.tls.ahi.s:
“Ms'yloliaapldmt--ms'yloliaapldmt--Mlbaj'sldtslmsliumtqtlwtc”lYaly.t
yahi.sls.tlvoentsl aentsclOlwawtjsldostuly.tlboylutopmjilSaw'yl mtetlar
xounls.uahi.lrdabmjilstouylojplyokmji:l“Mleahdplrauimqtls.tlxak,ljab,lmr
.t'pleawwmsstplolwmddmajlymjy!”




E.O STUlZZ

S.TUTlboylyawts.mjiloxahslOhjsl addk'ylwojjtu,lb.tjly.tlnmyytplSaw,ls.os
ybt slobokl.myldably mumsylojplwoptl.mwldmi.s.toustplojpl.o  kloiomjcl.t
ysoustplsalye.aadlojpl.opls.tldhenlarleawmjilh ajlXtenklS.ose.tulosls.t
.toplarlWtopablDojtcl.mylwaaplodbokylptstuwmjtpl.mylwojjtuclBms.ahslo
wawtjs'yl.tymsosmajl.tluojlsal.tulojplyomp:

“Mloestplwmi.sklwtojlsapok,lXtenk,lojplM'wlyalyauukclMlbaj'sltqtu,ltqtu
pals.oslbokloiomj,loyldajiloyltqtulMldmqt-- dtoytlwontlh ,lbaj'slkah?”

S.tlimudlysa  tplojpldaantpl.mwlyeaujrhddklmjls.tlroet:

“M'ddls.ojnlkahlsalntt lkahuytdrl_sa_lkahuytdr,lWuclS.awoylYobktuclM'dd
jtqtuly tonlsalkahloiomjc”

Y.tlsayytpl.tul.toplojpl oyytplajclSawlboylyalyshjjtpls.osl.tl.opljas
tqtjl utytjetlarlwmjpltjahi.lsalyokl“B.aleouty,lWmyylYwousk?”lhjsmdls.t
umi.slsmwtlsalyoklmsl.opliajtlxkclYal.tlyompljas.mjiclXhsl.tlboylmjlo
rmjtluoit,ljtqtus.tdtyycl.tlwa tplmjsals.tlye.aadkouplbmy.mjily.tlbtut
olxak,lojplmwoimjmjil.abl.tlbahdplsuahjetl.tulmrly.tlbtutcl.tl utytjsdk
tjeahjstutpl.tulojplptdmqtutplolysmjimjilutwounloyl.tl oyytpclY.tl.hudtp
ajtlmjlutshuj,lojpls.tlojiuklxutoe.lboyleaw dtstclMslyttwtplsalXtenk,lmj
.tul.aslutytjswtjs,ls.osly.tleahdpl.oupdklbomslraulye.aadlsal“sontlmj,”
ly.tlboylyalmw osmtjslsalyttlSawlrdaiitplrauls.tlmjvhutply tddmji-xaanc
Mrly.tl.opl.oplojkldmjitumjiljasmajlarltz aymjilOdrutplStw dt,lSaw'y
arrtjymqtlrdmjil.oplpumqtjlmsltjsmutdklobokc

 aaulimud,ly.tlpmpljaslnjabl.ablroysly.tlboyljtoumjilsuahxdtl.tuytdrc
S.tlwoystu,lWuclPaxxmjy,l.oplutoe.tplwmppdtloitlbms.lojlhjyosmyrmtp
owxmsmajclS.tlpoudmjilarl.mylptymutylboy,lsalxtlolpaesau,lxhs
 aqtuskl.oplpteuttpls.osl.tly.ahdplxtljas.mjil.mi.tuls.ojlolqmddoit
ye.aadwoystuclTqtuklpokl.tlsaanlolwkystumahylxaanlahslarl.mylptynlojp
oxyauxtpl.mwytdrlmjlmsloslsmwtylb.tjljaledoyytylbtutlutemsmjicl.tlnt s
s.oslxaanlhjptuldaenlojplntkclS.tutlboyljaslojlhue.mjlmjlye.aadlxhslboy
 tumy.mjilsal.oqtlolidmw ytlarlms,lxhsls.tle.ojetljtqtuleowtclTqtuklxak
ojplimudl.oplols.taukloxahsls.tljoshutlarls.oslxaan;lxhsljalsbals.taumty
btutlodmnt,lojpls.tutlboyljalboklarlitssmjilosls.tlroesylmjls.tleoytc
Jab,loylXtenklboyl oyymjilxkls.tlptyn,lb.me.lysaapljtouls.tlpaau,ly.t
jasmetpls.osls.tlntklboylmjls.tldaen!lMslboylol utemahylwawtjsclY.t
idojetplouahjp;lrahjpl.tuytdrlodajt,lojpls.tljtzslmjysojsly.tl.opls.t
xaanlmjl.tul.ojpyclS.tlsmsdt oit-- uartyyaulYawtxapk'yl_Ojosawk_--eouumtp
jalmjrauwosmajlsal.tulwmjp;lyaly.tlxtiojlsalshujls.tldtoqtyclY.tleowtlos
ajetlh ajlol.ojpyawtdkltjiuoqtplojpleadautplruajsmy mtet--ol.hwojlrmihut,
ysounljontpclOsls.oslwawtjsloly.opablrtddlajls.tl oitlojplSawlYobktu
yst  tplmjlosls.tlpaaulojpleohi.slolidmw ytlarls.tl meshutclXtenk
yjose.tplosls.tlxaanlsaledaytlms,lojpl.opls.tl.oupldhenlsalstouls.t
 meshutpl oitl.odrlpabjls.tlwmppdtclY.tls.uhysls.tlqadhwtlmjsals.tlptyn,
shujtpls.tlntk,lojplxhuyslahsleukmjilbms.ly.owtlojplqtzosmajc

“SawlYobktu,lkahloutlvhysloylwtojloylkahleojlxt,lsalyjtonlh lajlol tuyaj
ojpldaanloslb.osls.tk'utldaanmjilosc”

“.ableahdplMlnjablkahlboyldaanmjiloslojks.mji?”

“Kahlahi.slsalxtloy.owtplarlkahuytdr,lSawlYobktu;lkahlnjablkah'ut
iamjilsalstddlajlwt,lojpla.,lb.osly.oddlMlpa,lb.osly.oddlMlpa!lM'ddlxt
b.m  tp,lojplMljtqtulboylb.m  tplmjlye.aadc”

S.tjly.tlysow tpl.tuldmssdtlraaslojplyomp:

“_Xt_lyalwtojlmrlkahlbojslsa!lMlnjablyawts.mjils.os'yliamjilsal.o  tjc
Kahlvhyslbomslojplkah'ddlytt!l.ostrhd,l.ostrhd,l.ostrhd!”--ojply.tlrdhji
ahslarls.tl.ahytlbms.loljtbltz daymajlarleukmjic

Sawlysaaplysmdd,luos.tulrdhystutplxkls.mylajydohi.scl utytjsdkl.tlyomp
sal.mwytdr:

“B.oslolehumahylnmjplarlolraadlolimudlmy!lJtqtulxttjldmentplmj
ye.aad!lY.heny!lB.os'yloldmenmji!lS.os'ylvhysldmntlolimud--s.tk'utlya
s.mj-ynmjjtplojple.mentj-.toustpclBtdd,larleahuytlMlomj'sliamjilsalstdd
adplPaxxmjylajls.myldmssdtlraad,lxteohytls.tut'ylas.tulbokylarlitssmji
tqtjlajl.tu,ls.oslomj'slyalwtoj;lxhslb.oslarlms?lAdplPaxxmjylbmddloyn
b.almslboylsautl.mylxaanclJaxapk'ddlojybtuclS.tjl.t'ddlpalvhysls.tlbok
.tlodbokylpaty--oynlrmuyslajtlojpls.tjls'as.tu,lojplb.tjl.tleawtylsals.t
umi.slimudl.t'ddlnjablms,lbms.ahslojklstddmjiclImudy'lroetylodbokylstdd
ajls.twclS.tklomj'sliaslojklxoenxajtclY.t'ddlitsldmentpclBtdd,lms'ylo
nmjplarlolsmi.sl doetlraulXtenklS.ose.tu,lxteohytls.tutlomj'slojklbok
ahslarlmsc”lSawleajjtpls.tls.mjilolwawtjsldajitu,lojpls.tjlopptp:l“Odd
umi.s,ls.ahi.;ly.t'pldmntlsalyttlwtlmjlvhyslyhe.lolrmz--dtsl.tulybtoslms
ahs!”

Sawlvamjtpls.tlwaxlarlynkdounmjilye.adouylahsymptclMjlolrtblwawtjsyls.t
woystulouumqtplojplye.aadl“saanlmjc”lSawlpmpljaslrttdlolysuajilmjstutys
mjl.mylyshpmtyclTqtuklsmwtl.tlysadtlolidojetlosls.tlimudy'lymptlarls.t
uaawlXtenk'ylroetlsuahxdtpl.mwclEajymptumjiloddls.mjiy,l.tlpmpljaslbojs
sal mskl.tu,lojplktslmslboyloddl.tleahdplpalsal.td lmscl.tleahdplits
h ljaltzhdsosmajls.oslboylutoddklbaus.kls.tljowtcl utytjsdkls.t
y tddmji-xaanlpmyeaqtuklboylwopt,lojplSaw'ylwmjplboyltjsmutdklrhdd
arl.mylabjlwosstuylraulolb.mdtlorstuls.osclXtenkluahytplh lruawl.tu
dts.ouiklarlpmysutyylojply.abtpliaaplmjstutyslmjls.tl uaettpmjiyclY.t
pmpljasltz tesls.oslSawleahdplitslahslarl.mylsuahxdtlxklptjkmjils.osl.t
y mdsls.tlmjnlajls.tlxaanl.mwytdr;lojply.tlboylumi.sclS.tlptjmodlajdk
yttwtplsalwontls.tls.mjilbauytlraulSawclXtenklyh  aytply.tlbahdplxtlidop
arls.os,lojply.tlsumtplsalxtdmtqtly.tlboylidoplarlms,lxhsly.tlrahjply.t
boyljasletusomjclB.tjls.tlbauysleowtlsals.tlbauys,ly.tl.oplojlmw hdyt
salitslh lojplstddlajlOdrutplStw dt,lxhsly.tlwoptlojltrrauslojplrauetp
.tuytdrlsalntt lysmdd--xteohyt,lyomply.tlsal.tuytdr,l“.t'ddlstddloxahslwt
stoumjils.tl meshutlyhutclMlbahdpj'slyoklolbaup,ljaslsalyoqtl.myldmrt!”

Sawlsaanl.mylb.m  mjilojplbtjslxoenlsal.mylytosljasloslodd
xuantj-.toustp,lraul.tls.ahi.slmslboyl ayymxdtls.osl.tl.oplhjnjabmjidk
h ytsls.tlmjnlajls.tly tddmji-xaanl.mwytdr,lmjlyawtlynkdounmjilxahs--.t
.oplptjmtplmslraulrauw'ylyontlojplxteohytlmslboylehysaw,lojpl.oplyshen
sals.tlptjmodlruawl umjem dtc

Olb.adtl.ahulpumrstplxk,ls.tlwoystulyosljappmjilmjl.myls.uajt,ls.tlomu
boylpuabyklbms.ls.tl.hwlarlyshpkclXklojplxk,lWuclPaxxmjylysuomi.stjtp
.mwytdrlh ,lkobjtp,ls.tjlhjdaentpl.mylptyn,lojplutoe.tplraul.mylxaan,
xhslyttwtplhjptemptplb.ts.tulsalsontlmslahslauldtoqtlmsclWayslarls.t
 h mdylidojetplh ldojihmpdk,lxhsls.tutlbtutlsbalowajils.twls.oslbose.tp
.mylwaqtwtjsylbms.lmjstjsltktyclWuclPaxxmjylrmjitutpl.mylxaanloxytjsdk
raulolb.mdt,ls.tjlsaanlmslahslojplytssdtpl.mwytdrlmjl.myle.omulsalutop!
Sawly.aslolidojetloslXtenkcl.tl.oplyttjlol.hjstplojpl.td dtyyluoxxms
daanloyly.tlpmp,lbms.lolihjldtqtddtploslmsyl.topclMjysojsdkl.tlrauias
.mylghouutdlbms.l.tuclGhmen--yawts.mjilwhyslxtlpajt!lpajtlmjlolrdoy.,
saa!lXhsls.tlqtuklmwwmjtjetlarls.tltwtuitjekl ouodkftpl.mylmjqtjsmajc
Iaap!--.tl.oplojlmjy muosmaj!l.tlbahdpluhjlojplyjose.ls.tlxaan,ly umji
s.uahi.ls.tlpaaulojplrdkclXhsl.mylutyadhsmajly.aanlraulajtldmssdt
mjysojs,lojpls.tle.ojetlboyldays--s.tlwoystula tjtpls.tlqadhwtclMrlSaw
ajdkl.opls.tlboystpla  aushjmsklxoenloiomj!lSaaldostclS.tutlboyljal.td 
raulXtenkljab,l.tlyompclS.tljtzslwawtjsls.tlwoystulroetpls.tlye.aadc
Tqtukltktlyojnlhjptul.mylioftclS.tutlboyls.oslmjlmslb.me.lywastltqtj
s.tlmjjaetjslbms.lrtouclS.tutlboylymdtjetlb.mdtlajtlwmi.sleahjslstj--s.t
woystulboylios.tumjil.mylbuos.clS.tjl.tly ant:l“B.alsautls.mylxaan?”

S.tutlboyljaslolyahjpclAjtleahdpl.oqtl.touplol mjlpua clS.tlysmddjtyy
eajsmjhtp;ls.tlwoystulytoue.tplroetlorstulroetlraulymijylarlihmdsc

“XtjvowmjlUaituy,lpmplkahlstouls.mylxaan?”

OlptjmodclOjas.tul ohytc

“Vayt .l.ou tu,lpmplkah?”

Ojas.tulptjmodclSaw'ylhjtoymjtyyliutblwautlojplwautlmjstjytlhjptuls.t
ydablsaushutlarls.tytl uaettpmjiyclS.tlwoystulyeojjtpls.tluojnylar
xaky--eajymptutplolb.mdt,ls.tjlshujtplsals.tlimudy:

“OwklDobutjet?”

Oly.ontlarls.tl.topc

“IuoemtlWmddtu?”

S.tlyowtlymijc

“Yhyojl.ou tu,lpmplkahlpals.my?”

Ojas.tuljtiosmqtclS.tljtzslimudlboylXtenklS.ose.tuclSawlboylsutwxdmji
ruawl.toplsalraaslbms.ltzemstwtjslojplolytjytlarls.tl.a tdtyyjtyylarls.t
ymshosmajc

“UtxteeolS.ose.tu”l[Sawlidojetplosl.tulroet--mslboylb.mstlbms.
stuuau]--“pmplkahlstou--ja,ldaanlwtlmjls.tlroet”l[.tul.ojpyluaytlmj
o  tod]--“pmplkahlstouls.mylxaan?”

Ols.ahi.sly.asldmntldmi.sjmjils.uahi.lSaw'ylxuomjcl.tly uojilsal.mylrtts
ojply.ahstp--“Mlpajtlms!”

S.tlye.aadlysoutplmjl tu dtzmsklosls.mylmjeutpmxdtlraddkclSawlysaaplo
wawtjs,lsalios.tul.mylpmywtwxtutplroehdsmty;lojplb.tjl.tlyst  tplrauboup
salialsal.myl hjmy.wtjsls.tlyhu umyt,ls.tliuosmshpt,ls.tlopauosmajls.os
y.ajtlh ajl.mwlahslarl aaulXtenk'yltktylyttwtpl okltjahi.lraulol.hjputp
rdaiimjiyclMjy mutplxkls.tly dtjpaularl.mylabjloes,l.tlsaanlbms.ahs
ojlahseukls.tlwayslwtuemdtyylrdokmjils.osltqtjlWuclPaxxmjyl.opltqtu
opwmjmystutp;lojplodyalutetmqtplbms.lmjpmrrtutjetls.tlopptpleuhtdsklarlo
eawwojplsalutwomjlsbal.ahuylorstulye.aadly.ahdplxtlpmywmyytp--raul.t
njtblb.albahdplbomslraul.mwlahsymptlsmddl.myleo smqmsklboylpajt,lojpljas
eahjsls.tlstpmahylsmwtloyldayy,ltms.tuc

Sawlbtjslsalxtpls.osljmi.sl dojjmjilqtjitojetloiomjyslOdrutplStw dt;lrau
bms.ly.owtlojplut tjsojetlXtenkl.oplsadpl.mwlodd,ljaslrauitssmjil.tulabj
sutoe.tuk;lxhsltqtjls.tldajimjilraulqtjitojetl.oplsalimqtlbok,lyaaj,lsa
 dtoyojstulwhymjiy,lojpl.tlrtddloydtt losldoyslbms.lXtenk'yldostyslbaupy
dmjitumjilputowmdklmjl.myltou--

“Saw,l.abl_eahdp_lkahlxtlyaljaxdt!”




E.O STUlZZM

QOEOSMAJlboylo  uaoe.mjiclS.tlye.aadwoystu,lodbokylytqtut,liutblytqtutu
ojplwautltzoesmjils.ojltqtu,lraul.tlbojstpls.tlye.aadlsalwontloliaap
y.abmjilajl“Tzowmjosmaj”lpokcl.myluaplojpl.mylrtuhdtlbtutlytdpawlmpdt
jab--osldtoyslowajils.tlywoddtul h mdyclAjdkls.tlxmiityslxaky,lojplkahji
dopmtylarltmi.sttjlojplsbtjsk,ltyeo tpldoy.mjiclWuclPaxxmjy'ldoy.mjiy
btutlqtuklqmiauahylajty,lsaa;lraulods.ahi.l.tleouumtp,lhjptul.mylbmi,lo
 turtesdklxodplojply.mjkl.top,l.tl.oplajdklutoe.tplwmppdtloit,lojpls.tut
boyljalymijlarlrttxdtjtyylmjl.mylwhyedtclOyls.tliutoslpoklo  uaoe.tp,
oddls.tlskuojjkls.oslboylmjl.mwleowtlsals.tlyhuroet;l.tlyttwtplsalsontlo
qmjpmesmqtl dtoyhutlmjl hjmy.mjils.tldtoysly.auseawmjiyclS.tleajytghtjet
boy,ls.osls.tlywoddtulxakyly tjsls.tmulpokylmjlstuuaulojplyhrrtumjilojp
s.tmuljmi.sylmjl dassmjilutqtjitclS.tkls.utblobokljala  aushjmsklsalpa
s.tlwoystulolwmye.mtrclXhsl.tlnt slo.toploddls.tlsmwtclS.tlutsumxhsmaj
s.oslraddabtpltqtuklqtjitrhdlyheetyylboylyalybtt mjilojplwovtysmels.os
s.tlxakylodbokylutsmutplruawls.tlrmtdplxopdklbauystpclOsldoysls.tk
eajy mutplsaits.tulojpl.mslh ajlol dojls.osl uawmytplolpoffdmjilqmesaukc
S.tklybautlmjls.tlymij omjstu'ylxak,lsadpl.mwls.tlye.twt,lojployntpl.my
.td cl.tl.opl.mylabjlutoyajylraulxtmjilptdmi.stp,lrauls.tlwoystulxaouptp
mjl.mylros.tu'ylrowmdklojpl.oplimqtjls.tlxaklow dtleohytlsal.ostl.mwc
S.tlwoystu'ylbmrtlbahdplialajlolqmymslsals.tleahjsuklmjlolrtblpoky,lojp
s.tutlbahdplxtljas.mjilsalmjsturtutlbms.ls.tl doj;ls.tlwoystulodboky
 ut outpl.mwytdrlrauliutoslaeeoymajylxklitssmjil utssklbtddlrhppdtp,lojp
s.tlymij omjstu'ylxaklyompls.oslb.tjls.tlpawmjmtl.oplutoe.tpls.tl ua tu
eajpmsmajlajlTzowmjosmajlTqtjmjil.tlbahdpl“wojoitls.tls.mji”lb.mdtl.t
jo  tplmjl.myle.omu;ls.tjl.tlbahdpl.oqtl.mwlobontjtplosls.tlumi.slsmwt
ojpl.huumtploboklsalye.aadc

Mjls.tlrhdjtyylarlsmwtls.tlmjstutysmjilaeeoymajlouumqtpclOsltmi.slmj
s.tltqtjmjils.tlye.aad.ahytlboylxumddmojsdkldmi.stp,lojplopaujtplbms.
butos.ylojplrtysaajylarlradmoitlojplrdabtuyclS.tlwoystulyosls.uajtplmj
.myliutosle.omulh ajloluomytpl dosrauw,lbms.l.mylxdoenxaouplxt.mjpl.mwc
.tlboyldaanmjilsadtuoxdklwtddabclS.uttluabylarlxtje.tylajltoe.lymptlojp
ymzluabylmjlruajslarl.mwlbtutlaeeh mtplxkls.tlpmijmsoumtylarls.tlsabj
ojplxkls.tl outjsylarls.tl h mdyclSal.myldtrs,lxoenlarls.tluabylar
emsmftjy,lboyloly oemahylstw auoukl dosrauwlh ajlb.me.lbtutlytostpls.t
ye.adouylb.albtutlsalsontl ouslmjls.tltztuemytylarls.tltqtjmji;luabylar
ywoddlxaky,lboy.tplojplputyytplsalojlmjsadtuoxdtlysostlarlpmyeawraus;
uabylarliobnklxmilxaky;lyjabxojnylarlimudylojplkahjildopmtyledoplmj
dobjlojplwhydmjlojpleajy mehahydkleajyemahylarls.tmulxoutlouwy,ls.tmu
iuojpwas.tuy'lojemtjslsumjntsy,ls.tmulxmsylarl mjnlojplxdhtlumxxajlojp
s.tlrdabtuylmjls.tmul.omuclOddls.tlutyslarls.tl.ahytlboylrmddtplbms.
jaj- ousmem osmjilye.adouyc

S.tltztuemytylxtiojclOlqtukldmssdtlxaklysaaplh lojply.tt my.dklutemstp,
“Kah'plyeouetltz teslajtlarlwkloitlsaly tonlmjl hxdmelajls.tlysoit,”
ltsec--oeeaw ojkmjil.mwytdrlbms.ls.tl omjrhddkltzoeslojply oywapme
ityshutylb.me.lolwoe.mjtlwmi.sl.oqtlhytp--yh  aymjils.tlwoe.mjtlsalxtlo
sumrdtlahslarlauptuclXhsl.tliasls.uahi.lyortdk,ls.ahi.leuhtddklyeoutp,
ojpliaslolrmjtluahjplarlo  dohytlb.tjl.tlwoptl.mylwojhroeshutplxablojp
utsmutpc

Oldmssdtly.owtroetplimudldmy tp,l“Woukl.oploldmssdtldowx,”ltsec,
 turauwtploleaw oyymaj-mjy mumjilehusyk,liasl.tulwttplarlo  dohyt,lojp
yoslpabjlrdhy.tplojpl.o  kc

SawlYobktulyst  tplraubouplbms.leajetmstpleajrmptjetlojplyaoutplmjsa
s.tlhjghtje.oxdtlojplmjptysuhesmxdtl“Imqtlwtldmxtusklaulimqtlwtlptos.”
ly tte.,lbms.lrmjtlrhuklojplruojsmelitysmehdosmaj,lojplxuantlpabjlmjls.t
wmppdtlarlmsclOli.oysdklysoit-rumi.slytmftpl.mw,l.myldtiylghontplhjptu
.mwlojpl.tlboyldmntlsale.antclSuht,l.tl.opls.tlwojmrtyslykw os.klarls.t
.ahytlxhsl.tl.opls.tl.ahyt'ylymdtjet,lsaa,lb.me.lboyltqtjlbauytls.oj
msylykw os.kclS.tlwoystulruabjtp,lojpls.myleaw dtstpls.tlpmyoystuclSaw
ysuhiidtplob.mdtlojpls.tjlutsmutp,lhsstudklptrtostpclS.tutlboylolbton
osstw sloslo  dohyt,lxhslmslpmtpltoudkc

“S.tlXaklYsaaplajls.tlXhujmjilPten”lraddabtp;lodyal“S.tlOyykumojlEowt
Pabj,”lojplas.tulptedowosauklitwyclS.tjls.tutlbtutlutopmjiltztuemyty,
ojploly tddmjilrmi.sclS.tlwtoiutlDosmjledoyylutemstplbms.l.ajauclS.t
 umwtlrtoshutlarls.tltqtjmjilboylmjlauptu,ljab--aumimjodl“eaw aymsmajy”
lxkls.tlkahjildopmtyclToe.lmjl.tulshujlyst  tplraubouplsals.tltpitlarls.t
 dosrauw,ledtoutpl.tuls.uaos,l.tdplh l.tulwojhyeum sl(smtplbms.lpomjsk
umxxaj),lojpl uaettptplsalutop,lbms.ldoxautplosstjsmajlsal“tz utyymaj”
lojpl hjeshosmajclS.tls.twtylbtutls.tlyowtls.osl.oplxttjlmddhwmjostplh aj
ymwmdoulaeeoymajylxkls.tmulwas.tuylxtrautls.tw,ls.tmuliuojpwas.tuy,
ojplpahxsdtyyloddls.tmulojetysauylmjls.tlrtwodtldmjtledtoulxoenlsals.t
Euhyoptycl“Rumtjpy.m ”lboylajt;l“WtwaumtylarlAs.tulPoky”;l“Utdmimajlmj
.mysauk”;l“PutowlDojp”;l“S.tlOpqojsoitylarlEhdshut”;l“Rauwylarl admsmeod
IaqtujwtjslEaw outplojplEajsuoystp”;l“Wtdoje.adk”;l“RmdmodlDaqt”;l“.tous
Dajimjiy,”ltsec,ltsec

Ol utqodtjslrtoshutlmjls.tytleaw aymsmajylboyloljhuytplojpl tsstp
wtdoje.adk;lojas.tulboylolboystrhdlojpla hdtjslihy.larl“rmjtldojihoit”;
ojas.tulboylolstjptjeklsaldhilmjlxkls.tltouyl ousmehdoudkl umftplbaupy
ojpl .uoytylhjsmdls.tklbtutlbaujltjsmutdklahs;lojplol tehdmoumskls.os
eajy mehahydklwountplojplwouutpls.twlboyls.tlmjqtstuostlojplmjsadtuoxdt
ytuwajls.oslboiitplmsyleum  dtplsomdlosls.tltjplarltoe.lojpltqtuklajt
arls.twclJalwosstulb.osls.tlyhxvteslwmi.slxt,lolxuomjuoenmjiltrrauslboy
woptlsalyghmuwlmslmjsalyawtloy teslaulas.tuls.osls.tlwauodlojplutdmimahy
wmjpleahdpleajstw dostlbms.ltpmrmeosmajclS.tlidoumjilmjymjetumsklar
s.tytlytuwajylboyljaslyhrrmemtjslsaleaw oyyls.tlxojmy.wtjslarls.t
roy.majlruawls.tlye.aady,lojplmslmyljaslyhrrmemtjslsapok;lmsljtqtulbmdd
xtlyhrrmemtjslb.mdtls.tlbaudplysojpy,l tu.o yclS.tutlmyljalye.aadlmj
oddlahuldojplb.tutls.tlkahjildopmtylpaljaslrttdlaxdmitplsaledaytls.tmu
eaw aymsmajylbms.lolytuwaj;lojplkahlbmddlrmjpls.osls.tlytuwajlarls.t
wayslrumqadahylojpls.tldtoyslutdmimahylimudlmjls.tlye.aadlmylodboky
s.tldajityslojpls.tlwayslutdtjsdtyydkl mahyclXhsltjahi.larls.mycl.awtdk
suhs.lmylhj odosoxdtc

Dtslhylutshujlsals.tl“Tzowmjosmajc”lS.tlrmuysleaw aymsmajls.oslboylutop
boylajtltjsmsdtpl“Myls.my,ls.tj,lDmrt?”l tu.o yls.tlutoptuleojltjphutloj
tzsuoeslruawlms:

“Mjls.tleawwajlbodnylarldmrt,lbms.lb.oslptdmi.srhdltwasmajylpatyls.t
kahs.rhdlwmjpldaanlraubouplsalyawtlojsmem ostplyetjtlarlrtysmqmsk!
Mwoimjosmajlmylxhyklyntse.mjiluayt-smjstpl meshutylarlvakclMjlrojek,ls.t
qadh shahylqasouklarlroy.majlyttyl.tuytdrlowmpls.tlrtysmqtls.uaji,l's.t
axytuqtplarloddlaxytuqtuyc'l.tuliuoetrhdlrauw,louuoktplmjlyjabkluaxty,
mylb.mudmjils.uahi.ls.tlwoftylarls.tlvakahylpojet;l.tultktlmylxumi.stys,
.tulyst lmyldmi.styslmjls.tliokloyytwxdkc

“Mjlyhe.lptdmemahylrojemtylsmwtlghmendklidmptylxk,lojpls.tlbtdeawtl.ahu
ouumqtylraul.tultjsuojetlmjsals.tlTdkymojlbaudp,larlb.me.ly.tl.oy
.oplyhe.lxumi.slputowycl.ablromuk-dmntlpatyltqtuks.mjilo  toulsal.tu
tje.ojstplqmymaj!lToe.ljtblyetjtlmylwautle.ouwmjils.ojls.tldoysclXhs
orstulolb.mdtly.tlrmjpyls.oslxtjtos.ls.myliaapdkltzstumau,loddlmy
qojmsk,ls.tlrdosstuklb.me.lajetle.ouwtpl.tulyahd,ljabliuostyl.ouy.dk
h ajl.tultou;ls.tlxodduaawl.oyldayslmsyle.ouwy;lojplbms.lboystpl.tods.
ojplmwxmsstutpl.tous,ly.tlshujyloboklbms.ls.tleajqmesmajls.osltous.dk
 dtoyhutyleojjaslyosmyrkls.tldajimjiylarls.tlyahd!”

Ojplyalraus.lojplyalajclS.tutlboylolxhfflarliuosmrmeosmajlruawlsmwtlsa
smwtlphumjils.tlutopmji,loeeaw ojmtplxklb.my tutpltvoehdosmajylarl“.ab
ybtts!”l“.abltdaghtjs!”l“Yalsuht!”ltsec,lojplorstuls.tls.mjil.opledaytp
bms.lol tehdmoudklorrdmesmjilytuwajls.tlo  dohytlboyltjs.hymoysmec

S.tjlouaytlolydmw,lwtdoje.adklimud,lb.aytlroetl.opls.tl“mjstutysmji”
l odtjtyyls.osleawtylarl mddylojplmjpmitysmaj,lojplutoplol“ atwc”lSba
ysojfoylarlmslbmddlpa:

“OlWMYYAHUMlWOMPTJ'YlROUTBTDDlSAlODOXOWO

“Odoxowo,liaapxkt!lMldaqtls.ttlbtdd!lXhslktslraulolb.mdtlpalMldtoqtls.tt
jab!lYop,lkty,lyopls.ahi.sylarls.ttlwkl.touslpas.lybtdd,lOjplxhujmji
uteaddtesmajyls.uajilwklxuab!lRaulMl.oqtlbojptutpls.uahi.ls.klrdabtuk
baapy;l.oqtluaowtplojplutopljtoulSoddo aayo'ylysutow;l.oqtldmystjtplsa
Soddoyytt'ylbouumjilrdaapy,lOjplbaatplajlEaayo'ylymptlOhuauo'ylxtowc

“Ktsly.owtlMljaslsalxtoulojla'turhddl.tous,lJaulxdhy.lsalshujlxt.mjp
wklstourhdltkty;l'SmylruawljalysuojituldojplMljablwhysl ous,l'Smylsalja
ysuojituyldtrslMlkmtdpls.tytlymi.yclBtdeawtlojpl.awtlbtutlwmjtlbms.mj
s.mylYsost,lB.aytlqodtylMldtoqt--b.aytly mutylroptlroyslruawlwtlOjpleadp
whyslxtlwmjtltkty,lojpl.tous,lojplstst,lB.tj,lptoulOdoxowo!ls.tklshuj
eadplajls.tt!”lS.tutlbtutlqtuklrtbls.tutlb.alnjtblb.osl“stst”lwtojs,lxhs
s.tl atwlboylqtuklyosmyroesauk,ljtqtus.tdtyyc

Jtzslo  toutplolpoun-eaw dtzmajtp,lxdoen-tktp,lxdoen-.omutplkahjildopk,
b.al ohytplojlmw utyymqtlwawtjs,loyyhwtplolsuoimeltz utyymaj,lojplxtioj
salutoplmjlolwtoyhutp,lyadtwjlsajt:

“OlQMYMAJ

“Pounlojplstw tyshahylboyljmi.sclOuahjpls.tls.uajtlajl.mi.ljaslolymjidt
ysoulghmqtutp;lxhsls.tlptt lmjsajosmajylarls.tl.toqkls.hjptuleajysojsdk
qmxuostplh ajls.tltou;lb.mdysls.tlstuumrmeldmi.sjmjilutqtddtplmjlojiuk
waapls.uahi.ls.tledahpkle.owxtuylarl.toqtj,lyttwmjilsalyeaujls.tl abtu
tztustplaqtulmsylstuuaulxkls.tlmddhysumahylRuojndmj!lTqtjls.tlxamystuahy
bmjpylhjojmwahydkleowtlraus.lruawls.tmulwkysmel.awty,lojplxdhystutp
oxahsloylmrlsaltj.ojetlxkls.tmulompls.tlbmdpjtyylarls.tlyetjtc

“Oslyhe.lolsmwt,lyalpoun,lyalputouk,lraul.hwojlykw os.klwklqtukly mums
ymi.tp;lxhslmjystopls.tutar,

“'Wklptoutyslrumtjp,lwkleahjytddau,lwkleawraustulojplihmpt--Wklvaklmj
iumtr,lwklyteajplxdmyylmjlvak,'leowtlsalwklymptclY.tlwaqtpldmntlajtlar
s.aytlxumi.slxtmjiyl meshutplmjls.tlyhjjklbodnylarlrojek'ylTptjlxk
s.tluawojsmelojplkahji,lolghttjlarlxtohsklhjopaujtplyoqtlxkl.tulabj
suojyetjptjsldaqtdmjtyyclYalyarslboyl.tulyst ,lmslromdtplsalwontltqtjlo
yahjp,lojplxhslrauls.tlwoimeodls.umddlmw oustplxkl.tulitjmodlsahe.,
oylas.tulhjaxsuhymqtlxtohsmty,ly.tlbahdpl.oqtlidmptplobok
hj tuetmqtp--hjyahi.sclOlysuojitlyopjtyylutystplh ajl.tulrtoshuty,ldmnt
meklstouylh ajls.tluaxtlarlPtetwxtu,loyly.tl amjstplsals.tleajstjpmji
tdtwtjsylbms.ahs,lojplxoptlwtleajstw dostls.tlsbalxtmjiyl utytjstpc”

S.myljmi.swoutlaeeh mtplyawtlstjl oitylarlwojhyeum slojplbahjplh lbms.lo
ytuwajlyalptysuhesmqtlarloddl.a tlsaljaj- utyxkstumojyls.oslmslsaan
s.tlrmuysl umftclS.myleaw aymsmajlboyleajymptutplsalxtls.tlqtuklrmjtys
trrauslarls.tltqtjmjiclS.tlwokaularls.tlqmddoit,lmjlptdmqtumjils.tl umft
sals.tlohs.aularlms,lwoptlolbouwly tte.lmjlb.me.l.tlyompls.oslmslboylxk
rouls.tlwaysl“tdaghtjs”ls.mjil.tl.opltqtuldmystjtplsa,lojpls.oslPojmtd
Btxystul.mwytdrlwmi.slbtddlxtl uahplarlmsc

Mslwoklxtlutwountp,lmjl oyymji,ls.osls.tljhwxtularleaw aymsmajylmjlb.me.
s.tlbaupl“xtohstahy”lboylaqtu-rajpdtp,lojpl.hwojltz tumtjetlutrtuutplsa
oyl“dmrt'yl oit,”lboylh lsals.tlhyhodloqtuoitc

Jabls.tlwoystu,lwtddablodwayslsals.tlqtuitlarlitjmodmsk,l hsl.myle.omu
oympt,lshujtpl.mylxoenlsals.tlohpmtjet,lojplxtiojlsalpuoblolwo lar
Owtumeolajls.tlxdoenxaoup,lsaltztuemytls.tlitaiuo .kledoyylh ajclXhsl.t
woptlolyoplxhymjtyylarlmslbms.l.mylhjystopkl.ojp,lojplolywas.tutplsmsstu
um  dtplaqtuls.tl.ahytcl.tlnjtblb.osls.tlwosstulboy,lojplytsl.mwytdrlsa
umi.slmscl.tly ajitplahsldmjtylojplutwoptls.tw;lxhsl.tlajdklpmysaustp
s.twlwautls.ojltqtu,lojpls.tlsmsstumjilboylwautl uajahjetpcl.tls.utbl.my
tjsmutlosstjsmajlh ajl.mylbaun,ljab,loylmrlptstuwmjtpljaslsalxtl hslpabj
xkls.tlwmus.cl.tlrtdsls.osloddltktylbtutlroystjtplh ajl.mw;l.tlmwoimjtp
.tlboylyheettpmji,lojplktsls.tlsmsstumjileajsmjhtp;lmsltqtjlwojmrtysdk
mjeutoytpclOjplbtddlmslwmi.sclS.tutlboyloliouutsloxaqt,l mtuetplbms.
olyehssdtlaqtul.myl.top;lojplpabjls.uahi.ls.mylyehssdtleowtloleos,
yhy tjptplouahjpls.tl.ohje.tylxklolysumji;ly.tl.oploluoilsmtploxahs
.tul.toplojplvobylsalntt l.tulruawlwtbmji;loyly.tlydabdklptyetjptply.t
ehuqtplh bouplojpledobtplosls.tlysumji,ly.tlybhjilpabjbouplojpledobtp
osls.tlmjsojimxdtlomuclS.tlsmsstumjiluaytl.mi.tulojpl.mi.tu--s.tleoslboy
bms.mjlymzlmje.tylarls.tloxyauxtplstoe.tu'yl.top--pabj,lpabj,loldmssdt
dabtu,lojply.tliuoxxtpl.mylbmilbms.l.tulpty tuostledoby,ledhjilsalms,
ojplboylyjose.tplh lmjsals.tliouutslmjlojlmjysojslbms.l.tulsua .klysmdd
mjl.tul ayytyymaj!lOjpl.abls.tldmi.slpmplxdoftloxuaoplruawls.tlwoystu'y
xodpl ost--rauls.tlymij omjstu'ylxakl.opl_imdptp_lms!

S.oslxuantlh ls.tlwttsmjiclS.tlxakylbtutloqtjitpclQoeosmajl.opleawtc

JAST:--S.tl utstjptpl“eaw aymsmajy”lghastplmjls.myle.o stuloutlsontj
bms.ahslodstuosmajlruawlolqadhwtltjsmsdtpl“ uaytlojpl atsuk,lxklo
BtystujlDopk”--xhsls.tkloutltzoesdklojpl utemytdklorstuls.tlye.aadimud
 osstuj,lojpl.tjetloutlwhe.l.o  mtuls.ojlojklwtutlmwmsosmajyleahdplxtc




E.O STUlZZMM

SAWlvamjtpls.tljtblauptularlEoptsylarlStw tuojet,lxtmjilossuoestplxkls.t
y.abkle.ouoestularls.tmul“utiodmoc”l.tl uawmytplsaloxysomjlruawlywanmji,
e.tbmji,lojpl uarojmskloyldajiloyl.tlutwomjtplolwtwxtuclJabl.tlrahjplahs
oljtbls.mji--jowtdk,ls.oslsal uawmytljaslsalpalols.mjilmyls.tlyhutyslbok
mjls.tlbaudplsalwontlolxapklbojslsalialojplpals.oslqtukls.mjiclSawlyaaj
rahjpl.mwytdrlsauwtjstplbms.lolptymutlsalpumjnlojplybtou;ls.tlptymut
iutblsalxtlyalmjstjytls.osljas.mjilxhsls.tl.a tlarlole.ojetlsalpmy dok
.mwytdrlmjl.mylutplyoy.lnt sl.mwlruawlbms.puobmjilruawls.tlauptuclRahus.
arlVhdklboyleawmji;lxhsl.tlyaajlioqtls.oslh --ioqtlmslh lxtrautl.tl.op
baujl.myly.oendtylaqtulrausk-tmi.sl.ahuy--ojplrmztpl.myl.a tylh ajladp
VhpitlRuoftu,lvhysmetlarls.tl toet,lb.alboylo  outjsdklajl.mylptos.xtp
ojplbahdpl.oqtlolxmil hxdmelrhjtuod,lymjetl.tlboylyal.mi.lojlarrmemodc
Phumjils.uttlpokylSawlboylptt dkleajetujtploxahsls.tlVhpit'yleajpmsmaj
ojpl.hjiuklrauljtbylarlmsclYawtsmwtyl.myl.a tyluojl.mi.--yal.mi.ls.os
.tlbahdplqtjshutlsalitslahsl.mylutiodmolojpl uoesmytlxtrautls.t
daanmji-idoyyclXhsls.tlVhpitl.oplolwayslpmyeahuoimjilboklarlrdheshosmjic
Osldoysl.tlboyl uajahjetplh ajls.tlwtjp--ojpls.tjleajqodtyetjsclSawlboy
pmyihystp;lojplrtdslolytjytlarlmjvhuk,lsaacl.tl.ojptplmjl.mylutymijosmaj
oslajet--ojpls.osljmi.sls.tlVhpitlyhrrtutplolutdo ytlojplpmtpclSaw
utyadqtpls.osl.tlbahdpljtqtulsuhyslolwojldmntls.osloiomjc

S.tlrhjtuodlboylolrmjtls.mjiclS.tlEoptsyl ouoptplmjlolyskdtleodehdostp
salnmddls.tldostlwtwxtulbms.ltjqkclSawlboylolruttlxakloiomj,
.abtqtu--s.tutlboylyawts.mjilmjls.oscl.tleahdplpumjnlojplybtou,ljab--xhs
rahjplsal.mylyhu umytls.osl.tlpmpljaslbojslsaclS.tlymw dtlroesls.osl.t
eahdp,lsaanls.tlptymutlobok,lojpls.tle.ouwlarlmsc

Sawl utytjsdklbajptutplsalrmjpls.osl.myleaqtstplqoeosmajlboylxtimjjmji
sal.ojiloldmssdtl.toqmdklajl.myl.ojpyc

.tlosstw stplolpmouk--xhsljas.mjil.o  tjtplphumjils.uttlpoky,lojplyal.t
oxojpajtplmsc

S.tlrmuyslarloddls.tljtiualwmjysutdly.abyleowtlsalsabj,lojplwoptlo
ytjyosmajclSawlojplVatl.ou tuliaslh lolxojplarl turauwtuylojplbtutl.o  k
raulsbalpokyc

Tqtjls.tlIdaumahylRahus.lboylmjlyawtlytjytlolromdhut,lraulmsluomjtp
.oup,ls.tutlboyljal uaetyymajlmjleajytghtjet,lojpls.tliutostyslwoj
mjls.tlbaudpl(oylSawlyh  aytp),lWuclXtjsaj,lojloeshodlHjmstplYsosty
Ytjosau,l uaqtplojlaqtub.tdwmjilpmyo  amjswtjs--raul.tlboyljas
sbtjsk-rmqtlrttsl.mi.,ljaultqtjlojkb.tutlmjls.tljtmi.xau.aaplarlmsc

OlemuehyleowtclS.tlxakyl doktplemuehylrauls.uttlpokylorstubouplmjlstjsy
woptlarluoileou tsmji--opwmyymaj,ls.uttl mjylraulxaky,lsbalraulimudy--ojp
s.tjlemuehymjilboyloxojpajtpc

Ol .utjadaimyslojplolwtywtumftuleowt--ojplbtjsloiomjlojpldtrsls.tlqmddoit
phddtulojplputoumtuls.ojltqtuc

S.tutlbtutlyawtlxaky-ojp-imudy'l ousmty,lxhsls.tklbtutlyalrtblojplya
ptdmi.srhdls.osls.tklajdklwoptls.tloe.mjilqampylxtsbttjloe.tls.tl.ouptuc

XtenklS.ose.tulboyliajtlsal.tulEajysojsmja dtl.awtlsalysoklbms.l.tu
 outjsylphumjilqoeosmaj--yals.tutlboyljalxumi.slymptlsaldmrtlojkb.tutc

S.tlputoprhdlyteutslarls.tlwhuptulboylole.uajmelwmytukclMslboylolqtuk
eojetulraul tuwojtjeklojpl omjc

S.tjleowtls.tlwtoydtyc

PhumjilsbaldajilbttnylSawldoklol umyajtu,lptoplsals.tlbaudplojplmsy
.o  tjmjiycl.tlboylqtuklmdd,l.tlboylmjstutystplmjljas.mjiclB.tjl.tlias
h ajl.mylrttslosldoyslojplwaqtplrttxdklpabjsabj,lolwtdoje.adkle.ojitl.op
eawtlaqtultqtuks.mjilojpltqtukleutoshutclS.tutl.oplxttjlol“utqmqod,”lojp
tqtukxapkl.opl“iaslutdmimaj,”ljaslajdkls.tlophdsy,lxhsltqtjls.tlxakylojp
imudyclSawlbtjsloxahs,l.a mjiloiomjysl.a tlrauls.tlymi.slarlajtlxdtyytp
ymjrhdlroet,lxhslpmyo  amjswtjsleuayytpl.mwltqtukb.tutcl.tlrahjplVat
.ou tulyshpkmjilolStysowtjs,lojplshujtplyopdkloboklruawls.tlpt utyymji
y tesoedtcl.tlyahi.slXtjlUaituy,lojplrahjpl.mwlqmymsmjils.tl aaulbms.lo
xoyntslarlsuoesycl.tl.hjstplh lVmwl.addmy,lb.aleoddtpl.mylosstjsmajlsa
s.tl utemahylxdtyymjilarl.myldostlwtoydtyloylolboujmjiclTqtuklxak
.tltjeahjstutplopptplojas.tulsajlsal.mylpt utyymaj;lojplb.tj,lmj
pty tuosmaj,l.tlrdtblraulutrhitlosldoyslsals.tlxayawlarl.hendtxtuuklRmjj
ojplboylutetmqtplbms.lolYeum shuodlghasosmaj,l.myl.touslxuantlojpl.t
eut sl.awtlojplsalxtplutodmfmjils.osl.tlodajtlarloddls.tlsabjlboyldays,
rautqtulojplrautqtuc

Ojpls.osljmi.sls.tutleowtlajlolstuumrmelysauw,lbms.lpumqmjiluomj,lobrhd
edo ylarls.hjptulojplxdmjpmjily.ttsylarldmi.sjmjicl.tleaqtutpl.myl.top
bms.ls.tlxtpedas.tylojplbomstplmjlol.auuaularlyhy tjytlraul.mylpaaw;lrau
.tl.opljasls.tly.opablarlolpahxsls.osloddls.myl.hxxhxlboyloxahsl.mwc
.tlxtdmtqtpl.tl.oplsoztpls.tlrauxtouojetlarls.tl abtuyloxaqtlsals.t
tzsutwmsklarltjphuojetlojpls.osls.mylboyls.tlutyhdsclMslwmi.sl.oqt
yttwtplsal.mwlolboystlarl aw lojplowwhjmsmajlsalnmddlolxhilbms.lo
xosstuklarlousmddtuk,lxhsls.tutlyttwtpljas.mjilmjeajiuhahyloxahsls.t
itssmjilh lyhe.lojltz tjymqtls.hjptuysauwloyls.mylsalnjaenls.tlshurlruaw
hjptulojlmjytesldmntl.mwytdrc

Xklojplxkls.tlstw tysly tjslmsytdrlojplpmtplbms.ahsloeeaw dmy.mjilmsy
axvtesclS.tlxak'ylrmuyslmw hdytlboylsalxtliuostrhd,lojplutrauwcl.my
yteajplboylsalboms--rauls.tutlwmi.sljaslxtlojklwautlysauwyc

S.tljtzslpokls.tlpaesauylbtutlxoen;lSawl.oplutdo ytpclS.tls.uttlbttnyl.t
y tjslajl.mylxoenls.mylsmwtlyttwtplojltjsmutloitclB.tjl.tliasloxuaop
osldoysl.tlboyl.oupdkliuostrhdls.osl.tl.oplxttjly outp,lutwtwxtumjil.ab
dajtdklboyl.myltysost,l.ableaw ojmajdtyylojplraudaujl.tlboycl.tlpumrstp
dmysdtyydklpabjls.tlysuttslojplrahjplVmwl.addmyloesmjiloylvhpitlmjlo
vhqtjmdtleahusls.oslboylsukmjiloleoslraulwhuptu,lmjls.tl utytjetlarl.tu
qmesmw,lolxmupcl.tlrahjplVatl.ou tulojpl.henlRmjjlh lojloddtkltosmjilo
ysadtjlwtdajcl aauldopy!ls.tk--dmntlSaw--.oplyhrrtutplolutdo ytc




E.O STUlZZMMM

OSldoysls.tlydtt klosway .tutlboylysmuutp--ojplqmiauahydk:ls.tlwhuptu
sumodleowtlajlmjls.tleahusclMslxteowtls.tloxyauxmjilsa melarlqmddoit
sodnlmwwtpmostdkclSawleahdpljaslitsloboklruawlmsclTqtuklutrtutjetlsa
s.tlwhuptulytjsloly.hpptulsal.myl.tous,lraul.mylsuahxdtpleajyemtjet
ojplrtouylodwaysl tuyhoptpl.mwls.osls.tytlutwounylbtutl hslraus.lmj
.myl.toumjiloyl“rttdtuy”;l.tlpmpljaslyttl.abl.tleahdplxtlyhy testplar
njabmjilojks.mjiloxahsls.tlwhuptu,lxhslysmddl.tleahdpljaslxtleawrausoxdt
mjls.tlwmpyslarls.myliayym clMslnt sl.mwlmjloleadply.mqtuloddls.tlsmwtc
.tlsaanl.henlsaloldajtdkl doetlsal.oqtlolsodnlbms.l.mwclMslbahdplxtlyawt
utdmtrlsalhjytodl.mylsajihtlrauloldmssdtlb.mdt;lsalpmqmptl.mylxhuptjlar
pmysutyylbms.lojas.tulyhrrtutuclWautaqtu,l.tlbojstplsaloyyhutl.mwytdr
s.osl.henl.oplutwomjtplpmyeuttsc

“.hen,l.oqtlkahltqtulsadplojkxapkloxahs--s.os?”

“'Xahslb.os?”

“Kahlnjablb.osc”

“A.--'eahuytlMl.oqtj'sc”

“Jtqtulolbaup?”

“Jtqtulolyadmsouklbaup,lyal.td lwtclB.oslwontylkahloyn?”

“Btdd,lMlboylortoupc”

“B.k,lSawlYobktu,lbtlbahdpj'slxtlodmqtlsbalpokylmrls.osliaslrahjplahsc
_Kah_lnjabls.osc”

SawlrtdslwautleawrausoxdtclOrstulol ohyt:

“.hen,ls.tkleahdpj'slojkxapklitslkahlsalstdd,leahdpls.tk?”

“Itslwtlsalstdd?lB.k,lmrlMlbojstpls.osl.odrxuttplptqmdlsalpuabjplwtls.tk
eahdplitslwtlsalstddclS.tklomj'sljalpmrrtutjslbokc”

“Btdd,ls.os'yloddlumi.s,ls.tjclMlutenajlbt'utlyortloyldajiloylbtlntt 
whwclXhsldts'ylybtouloiomj,lojkbokclMs'ylwautlyhutuc”

“M'wloiuttpc”

Yals.tklybautloiomjlbms.lputoplyadtwjmsmtyc

“B.oslmyls.tlsodnlouahjp,l.hen?lM'qtl.touplol abtularlmsc”

“Sodn?lBtdd,lms'ylvhyslWhrrl asstu,lWhrrl asstu,lWhrrl asstuloddls.t
smwtclMslntt ylwtlmjlolybtos,leajysojs,lya'ylMlbojslsal.mptlyaw'tuyc”

“S.os'ylvhysls.tlyowtlbokls.tklialajluahjplwtclMlutenajl.t'yloliajtuc
Paj'slkahlrttdlyauuklraul.mw,lyawtsmwty?”

“Wayslodboky--wayslodbokycl.tlomj'sljaloeeahjs;lxhsls.tjl.tl.omj'sltqtu
pajtlojks.mjilsal.huslojkxapkclVhyslrmy.tyloldmssdt,lsalitslwajtklsa
itslpuhjnlaj--ojpldaorylouahjpleajymptuoxdt;lxhsldaup,lbtloddlpa
s.os--dtoysbokylwayslarlhy-- utoe.tuylojplyhe.ldmntclXhsl.t'ylnmjplar
iaap--.tlimqtlwtl.odrlolrmy.,lajet,lb.tjls.tutlbouj'sltjahi.lraulsba;lojp
dasylarlsmwtyl.t'ylnmjplarlysaaplxklwtlb.tjlMlboylahslarldhenc”

“Btdd,l.t'ylwtjptplnmstylraulwt,l.hen,lojplnjmsstpl.aanylajlsalwkldmjtc
Mlbmy.lbtleahdplitsl.mwlahslarls.tutc”

“Wk!lbtleahdpj'slitsl.mwlahs,lSawclOjplxtympty,l'sbahdpj'slpalojkliaap;
s.tk'plntse.l.mwloiomjc”

“Kty--yals.tklbahdpclXhslMl.ostlsal.toul'twloxhytl.mwlyaldmntls.tlpmentjy
b.tjl.tljtqtulpajt--s.osc”

“Mlpalsaa,lSawclDaup,lMl.toul'twlyokl.t'yls.tlxdaapmtysldaanmjilqmddomj
mjls.myleahjsuk,lojpls.tklbajptul.tlboyj'sltqtul.hjilxtrautc”

“Kty,ls.tklsodnldmntls.os,loddls.tlsmwtclM'qtl.toupl'twlyokls.oslmrl.t
boylsalitslruttls.tk'pldkje.l.mwc”

“Ojpls.tk'plpalms,lsaac”

S.tlxakyl.oploldajilsodn,lxhslmslxuahi.sls.twldmssdtleawrausclOyls.t
sbmdmi.slputblaj,ls.tklrahjpls.twytdqtyl.ojimjiloxahsls.tljtmi.xau.aap
arls.tldmssdtlmyadostplvomd,l tu.o ylbms.lojlhjptrmjtpl.a tls.os
yawts.mjilbahdpl.o  tjls.oslwmi.sledtoulobokls.tmulpmrrmehdsmtyclXhs
jas.mjil.o  tjtp;ls.tutlyttwtplsalxtljalojitdylaulromumtylmjstutystplmj
s.myldhendtyyleo smqtc

S.tlxakylpmployls.tkl.oplarstjlpajtlxtraut--btjslsals.tletddliuosmjilojp
ioqtl asstulyawtlsaxoeealojplwose.tycl.tlboylajls.tliuahjplrdaaulojp
s.tutlbtutljalihoupyc

.myliuosmshptlrauls.tmulimrsyl.oplodbokylywastls.tmuleajyemtjety
xtraut--mslehslptt tuls.ojltqtu,ls.mylsmwtclS.tklrtdsleaboupdklojp
sutoe.tuahylsals.tldoyslptiuttlb.tjl asstulyomp:

“Kah'qtlxttjlwmi.skliaaplsalwt,lxaky--xtsstu'jlojkxapkltdytlmjls.mylsabjc
OjplMlpaj'slrauitslms,lMlpaj'sclArstjlMlyokylsalwkytdr,lyokylM,l'Mlhytp
salwtjploddls.tlxaky'lnmstylojpls.mjiy,lojply.abl'twlb.tutls.tliaap
rmy.mj'l doetylboy,lojplxtrumtjpl'twlb.oslMleahdp,lojpljabls.tk'qt
oddlrauiasladplWhrrlb.tjl.t'ylmjlsuahxdt;lxhslSawlpaj's,lojpl.hen
paj's--_s.tk_lpaj'slrauitsl.mw,lyokylM,l'ojplMlpaj'slrauitsls.twc'lBtdd,
xaky,lMlpajtlojlobrhdls.mji--puhjnlojpleuofklosls.tlsmwt--s.os'yls.tlajdk
boklMloeeahjslraulms--ojpljablMliaslsalybmjilraulms,lojplms'ylumi.sc
Umi.s,lojpl_xtys_,lsaa,lMlutenaj--.a tlya,lojkbokclBtdd,lbtlbaj'slsodn
oxahsls.osclMlpaj'slbojslsalwontl_kah_lrttdlxop;lkah'qtlxtrumtjptplwtc
Xhslb.oslMlbojslsalyok,lmy,lpaj'sl_kah_ltqtulitslpuhjn--s.tjlkahlbaj's
tqtulitsl.tutclYsojploldmsstulrhuptulbtys--ya--s.os'ylms;lms'ylol umwt
eawrauslsalyttlroetyls.os'ylrumtjpdklb.tjlolxapk'ylmjlyhe.lolwhen
arlsuahxdt,lojpls.tutlpaj'sljajtleawtl.tutlxhslkahujclIaaplrumtjpdk
roety--iaaplrumtjpdklroetyclImslh lajlajtlojas.tu'ylxoenylojpldtslwt
sahe.l'twclS.os'ylmsclY.ontl.ojpy--kahuj'ddleawtls.uahi.ls.tlxouy,lxhs
wmjt'ylsaalxmiclDmssdtl.ojpy,lojplbton--xhsls.tk'qtl.td tplWhrrl asstulo
 abtu,lojpls.tk'pl.td l.mwlwautlmrls.tkleahdpc”

Sawlbtjsl.awtlwmytuoxdt,lojpl.mylputowyls.osljmi.slbtutlrhddlarl.auuauyc
S.tljtzslpoklojpls.tlpoklorstu,l.tl.hjiloxahsls.tleahusuaaw,lpuobjlxkloj
odwayslmuutymysmxdtlmw hdytlsalialmj,lxhslrauemjil.mwytdrlsalysoklahsc
.henlboyl.oqmjils.tlyowtltz tumtjetclS.tklyshpmahydkloqamptpltoe.las.tuc
Toe.lbojptutplobok,lruawlsmwtlsalsmwt,lxhsls.tlyowtlpmywodlroyemjosmaj
odbokylxuahi.sls.twlxoenl utytjsdkclSawlnt sl.myltouyla tjlb.tjlmpdtuy
yohjstutplahslarls.tleahusuaaw,lxhslmjqoumoxdkl.touplpmysutyymji
jtby--s.tlsamdylbtutledaymjilwautlojplwautlutdtjsdtyydklouahjpl aau
 asstuclOsls.tltjplarls.tlyteajplpokls.tlqmddoitlsodnlboylsals.tltrrtes
s.oslMjvhjlVat'yltqmptjetlysaaplrmuwlojplhjy.ontj,lojpls.osls.tutlboy
jasls.tlydmi.styslghtysmajloylsalb.osls.tlvhuk'ylqtupmeslbahdplxtc

Sawlboylahsldost,ls.osljmi.s,lojpleowtlsalxtpls.uahi.ls.tlbmjpabcl.t
boylmjlolsutwtjpahylysostlarltzemstwtjsclMslboyl.ahuylxtrautl.tliaslsa
ydtt clOddls.tlqmddoitlrdaentplsals.tleahus.ahytls.tljtzslwaujmji,lrau
s.mylboylsalxtls.tliutoslpokclXas.lytztylbtutloxahsltghoddklut utytjstp
mjls.tl oentplohpmtjetclOrstuloldajilbomsls.tlvhuklrmdtplmjlojplsaan
s.tmul doety;ly.ausdklorstuboup,l asstu,l odtlojpl.oiioup,lsmwmplojp
.a tdtyy,lboylxuahi.slmj,lbms.le.omjylh ajl.mw,lojplytostplb.tutlodd
s.tlehumahyltktyleahdplysoutlosl.mw;ljaldtyyleajy mehahylboylMjvhjlVat,
ysadmployltqtuclS.tutlboylojas.tul ohyt,lojpls.tjls.tlvhpitlouumqtplojp
s.tly.tumrrl uaedomwtpls.tla tjmjilarls.tleahusclS.tlhyhodlb.my tumjiy
owajils.tldobktuylojplios.tumjilsaits.tularl o tuylraddabtpclS.tyt
ptsomdylojploeeaw ojkmjilptdokylbauntplh lojlosway .tutlarl ut ouosmaj
s.oslboyloylmw utyymqtloylmslboylroyemjosmjic

Jablolbmsjtyylboyleoddtplb.alstysmrmtpls.osl.tlrahjplWhrrl asstulboy.mji
mjls.tlxuaan,loslojltoudkl.ahularls.tlwaujmjils.osls.tlwhuptulboy
pmyeaqtutp,lojpls.osl.tlmwwtpmostdklyjtontplobokclOrstulyawtlrhus.tu
ghtysmajmji,leahjytdlrauls.tl uaytehsmajlyomp:

“Sontls.tlbmsjtyyc”

S.tl umyajtuluomytpl.myltktylraulolwawtjs,lxhslpua  tpls.twloiomjlb.tj
.mylabjleahjytdlyomp:

“Ml.oqtljalghtysmajylsaloynl.mwc”

S.tljtzslbmsjtyyl uaqtpls.tlrmjpmjilarls.tlnjmrtljtouls.tleau ytc
Eahjytdlrauls.tl uaytehsmajlyomp:

“Sontls.tlbmsjtyyc”

“Ml.oqtljalghtysmajylsaloynl.mw,”l asstu'yldobktulut dmtpc

Ols.muplbmsjtyylybautl.tl.oplarstjlyttjls.tlnjmrtlmjl asstu'y
 ayytyymajc

“Sontls.tlbmsjtyyc”

Eahjytdlraul asstulptedmjtplsalghtysmajl.mwclS.tlroetylarls.tlohpmtjet
xtiojlsalxtsuoklojjakojetclPmpls.mylossaujtklwtojlsals.uablobokl.my
edmtjs'yldmrtlbms.ahslojltrraus?

Ytqtuodlbmsjtyytylpt aytpleajetujmjil asstu'ylihmdsklxt.oqmaulb.tj
xuahi.slsals.tlyetjtlarls.tlwhuptuclS.tklbtutloddabtplsaldtoqtls.tlysojp
bms.ahslxtmjileuayy-ghtysmajtpc

Tqtuklptsomdlarls.tlpowoimjilemuehwysojetyls.oslaeehuutplmjls.t
iuoqtkouplh ajls.oslwaujmjilb.me.loddl utytjslutwtwxtutplyalbtddlboy
xuahi.slahslxkleutpmxdtlbmsjtyyty,lxhsljajtlarls.twlbtutleuayy-tzowmjtp
xkl asstu'yldobktuclS.tl tu dtzmsklojplpmyyosmyroesmajlarls.tl.ahyt
tz utyytplmsytdrlmjlwhuwhuylojpl uaqantplolut uaarlruawls.tlxtje.c
Eahjytdlrauls.tl uaytehsmajljablyomp:

“Xkls.tlaos.ylarlemsmftjylb.aytlymw dtlbauplmyloxaqtlyhy memaj,lbtl.oqt
roystjtpls.mylobrhdleumwt,lxtkajploddl ayymxmdmsklarlghtysmaj,lh ajls.t
hj.o  kl umyajtulosls.tlxouclBtlutyslahuleoytl.tutc”

Oliuaojltyeo tplruawl aaul asstu,lojpl.tl hsl.mylroetlmjl.myl.ojpylojp
uaentpl.mylxapklyarsdklsalojplrua,lb.mdtlol omjrhdlymdtjetlutmijtp
mjls.tleahusuaawclWojklwtjlbtutlwaqtp,lojplwojklbawtj'yleaw oyymaj
stysmrmtplmsytdrlmjlstouyclEahjytdlrauls.tlptrtjetluaytlojplyomp:

“Kahul.ajau,lmjlahulutwounylosls.tla tjmjilarls.mylsumod,lbt
rauty.opabtplahul hu aytlsal uaqtls.oslahuledmtjslpmpls.mylrtourhdlpttp
b.mdtlhjptuls.tlmjrdhtjetlarlolxdmjplojplmuuty ajymxdtlptdmumhwl uaphetp
xklpumjnclBtl.oqtle.ojitplahulwmjpclBtly.oddljaslarrtuls.osl dtoc”l[S.tj
sals.tledtun:]l“EoddlS.awoylYobktu!”

Ol hffdtplowoftwtjslobantlmjltqtuklroetlmjls.tl.ahyt,ljasltqtjltzet smji
 asstu'yclTqtukltktlroystjtplmsytdrlbms.lbajptumjilmjstutyslh ajlSawloy
.tluaytlojplsaanl.myl doetlh ajls.tlysojpclS.tlxakldaantplbmdpltjahi.,
raul.tlboylxopdklyeoutpclS.tlaos.lboylopwmjmystutpc

“S.awoylYobktu,lb.tutlbtutlkahlajls.tlytqtjsttjs.larlVhjt,loxahsls.t
.ahularlwmpjmi.s?”

SawlidojetploslMjvhjlVat'ylmuajlroetlojpl.mylsajihtlromdtpl.mwclS.t
ohpmtjetldmystjtplxutos.dtyy,lxhsls.tlbaupylutrhytplsaleawtclOrstulolrtb
wawtjsy,l.abtqtu,ls.tlxakliasloldmssdtlarl.mylysutjis.lxoen,lojplwojoitp
sal hsltjahi.larlmslmjsal.mylqametlsalwontl ouslarls.tl.ahytl.tou:

“Mjls.tliuoqtkoup!”

“Oldmssdtlxmsldahptu,l dtoytclPaj'slxtloruompclKahlbtut--”

“Mjls.tliuoqtkoupc”

Oleajstw shahylywmdtlrdmsstploeuayylMjvhjlVat'ylroetc

“Btutlkahlojkb.tutljtoul.auytlBmddmowy'liuoqt?”

“Kty,lymuc”

“Y tonlh --vhyslolsumrdtldahptucl.abljtoulbtutlkah?”

“JtouloylMlowlsalkahc”

“Btutlkahl.mpptj,lauljas?”

“Mlboyl.mpc”

“B.tut?”

“Xt.mjpls.tltdwyls.os'ylajls.tltpitlarls.tliuoqtc”

MjvhjlVatlioqtlolxoutdkl tuet smxdtlysousc

“Ojklajtlbms.lkah?”

“Kty,lymuclMlbtjsls.tutlbms.--”

“Boms--bomslolwawtjsclJtqtulwmjplwtjsmajmjilkahuleaw ojmaj'yljowtclBt
bmddl uaphetl.mwlosls.tl ua tulsmwtclPmplkahleouuklojks.mjils.tutlbms.
kahc”

Sawl.tymsostplojpldaantpleajrhytpc

“Y tonlahs,lwklxak--paj'slxtlpmrrmptjsclS.tlsuhs.lmylodbokyluty tesoxdtc
B.oslpmplkahlsontls.tut?”

“Ajdklo--o--ptopleosc”

S.tutlboylolum  dtlarlwmus.,lb.me.ls.tleahusle.tentpc

“Btlbmddl uaphetls.tlyntdtsajlarls.osleosclJab,lwklxak,lstddlhy
tqtuks.mjils.oslaeehuutp--stddlmslmjlkahulabjlbok--paj'slynm lojks.mji,
ojplpaj'slxtloruompc”

Sawlxtioj--.tymsosmjidkloslrmuys,lxhsloyl.tlbouwtplsal.mylyhxvtesl.my
baupylrdabtplwautlojplwautltoymdk;lmjloldmssdtlb.mdtltqtuklyahjpletoytp
xhsl.mylabjlqamet;ltqtukltktlrmztplmsytdrlh ajl.mw;lbms.l oustpldm ylojp
xostplxutos.ls.tlohpmtjetl.hjilh ajl.mylbaupy,lsonmjiljaljastlarlsmwt,
uo slmjls.tli.oysdklroyemjosmajylarls.tlsodtclS.tlysuomjlh ajl tjs
twasmajlutoe.tplmsyledmwozlb.tjls.tlxaklyomp:

“--ojployls.tlpaesaulrtse.tpls.tlxaouplouahjplojplWhrrl asstulrtdd,lMjvhj
Vatlvhw tplbms.ls.tlnjmrtlojp--”

Euoy.!lGhmenloyldmi.sjmjils.tl.odrxuttply uojilraulolbmjpab,lsautl.my
bokls.uahi.loddla  aytuy,lojplboyliajt!




E.O STUlZZMQ

SAWlboylolidmsstumjil.tualajetlwaut--s.tl tslarls.tladp,ls.tltjqklarls.t
kahjicl.myljowtltqtjlbtjslmjsalmwwausodl umjs,lrauls.tlqmddoitl o tu
woijmrmtpl.mwclS.tutlbtutlyawtls.oslxtdmtqtpl.tlbahdplxtl utymptjs,lkts,
mrl.tltyeo tpl.ojimjic

Oylhyhod,ls.tlrmendt,lhjutoyajmjilbaudplsaanlWhrrl asstulsalmsylxayaw
ojplrajpdtpl.mwloyldoqmy.dkloylmsl.oploxhytpl.mwlxtrautclXhsls.oslyaus
arleajpheslmylsals.tlbaudp'yleutpms;ls.tutrautlmslmyljaslbtddlsalrmjp
rohdslbms.lmsc

Saw'ylpokylbtutlpokylarly dtjpaulojpltzhdsosmajlsal.mw,lxhsl.myljmi.sy
btutlytoyajylarl.auuauclMjvhjlVatlmjrtystploddl.mylputowy,lojplodboky
bms.lpaawlmjl.myltktcl.oupdklojklstw sosmajleahdpl tuyhoptls.tlxak
salysmuloxuaoplorstuljmi.sroddcl aaul.henlboylmjls.tlyowtlysostlar
butse.tpjtyylojplstuuau,lraulSawl.oplsadpls.tlb.adtlysauklsals.tldobktu
s.tljmi.slxtrautls.tliutoslpoklarls.tlsumod,lojpl.henlboylyautloruomp
s.osl.myly.outlmjls.tlxhymjtyylwmi.sldtonlahs,lkts,ljasbms.ysojpmji
MjvhjlVat'ylrdmi.sl.oplyoqtpl.mwls.tlyhrrtumjilarlstysmrkmjilmjleahusc
S.tl aaulrtddabl.opliasls.tlossaujtklsal uawmytlyteutek,lxhslb.oslar
s.os?lYmjetlSaw'yl.ouoyytpleajyemtjetl.oplwojoitplsalpumqtl.mwlsals.t
dobktu'yl.ahytlxkljmi.slojplbumjilolputoplsodtlruawldm yls.osl.op
xttjlytodtplbms.ls.tlpmywodtyslojplwayslrauwmpoxdtlarlaos.y,l.hen'y
eajrmptjetlmjls.tl.hwojluoetlboylbtddjmi.laxdmstuostpc

PomdklWhrrl asstu'yliuosmshptlwoptlSawlidopl.tl.oply antj;lxhsljmi.sdk
.tlbmy.tpl.tl.oplytodtplh l.mylsajihtc

.odrls.tlsmwtlSawlboyloruomplMjvhjlVatlbahdpljtqtulxtleo shutp;ls.t
as.tul.odrl.tlboyloruompl.tlbahdplxtcl.tlrtdslyhutl.tljtqtuleahdplpuoblo
yortlxutos.loiomjlhjsmdls.oslwojlboylptoplojpl.tl.oplyttjls.tleau ytc

Utboupyl.oplxttjlarrtutp,ls.tleahjsukl.oplxttjlyeahutp,lxhsljalMjvhj
VatlboylrahjpclAjtlarls.aytlawjmyemtjslojplobtmjy mumjilwouqtdy,lo
ptstesmqt,leowtlh lruawlYsclDahmy,lwahytplouahjp,ly.aanl.myl.top,ldaantp
bmyt,lojplwoptls.oslyauslarloysahjpmjilyheetyylb.me.lwtwxtuylarls.os
euorslhyhoddkloe.mtqtclS.oslmylsalyok,l.tl“rahjploledtbc”lXhslkahleoj's
.ojilol“edtb”lraulwhuptu,lojplyalorstuls.oslptstesmqtl.opliasls.uahi.
ojpliajtl.awt,lSawlrtdslvhysloylmjytehutloyl.tlboylxtrautc

S.tlydablpokylpumrstplaj,lojpltoe.ldtrslxt.mjplmslolydmi.sdkldmi.stjtp
btmi.slarlo  ut.tjymajc




E.O STUlZZQ

S.TUTleawtylolsmwtlmjltqtuklumi.sdk-eajysuhestplxak'yldmrtlb.tjl.tl.oy
oluoimjilptymutlsalialyawtb.tutlojplpmilraul.mpptjlsutoyhutclS.mylptymut
yhpptjdkleowtlh ajlSawlajtlpokcl.tlyoddmtplahslsalrmjplVatl.ou tu,
xhslromdtplarlyheetyyclJtzsl.tlyahi.slXtjlUaituy;l.tl.opliajtlrmy.mjic
 utytjsdkl.tlyshwxdtplh ajl.henlRmjjls.tlUtp-.ojptpcl.henlbahdp
ojybtuclSawlsaanl.mwlsalol umqostl doetlojpla tjtpls.tlwosstulsal.mw
eajrmptjsmoddkcl.henlboylbmddmjicl.henlboylodbokylbmddmjilsalsontlol.ojp
mjlojkltjstu umytls.oslarrtutpltjstusomjwtjslojplutghmutpljaleo msod,
raul.tl.oplolsuahxdtyawtlyh tuoxhjpojetlarls.oslyauslarlsmwtlb.me.lmy
jaslwajtkcl“B.tut'ddlbtlpmi?”lyompl.henc

“A.,lwayslojkb.tutc”

“B.k,lmylmsl.mploddlouahjp?”

“Ja,lmjpttplmslomj'sclMs'yl.mplmjlwmi.skl ousmehdoul doety,
.hen--yawtsmwtylajlmydojpy,lyawtsmwtylmjluasstjle.tysylhjptuls.tltjplar
oldmwxlarlojladplptoplsutt,lvhyslb.tutls.tly.opablroddyloslwmpjmi.s;lxhs
waysdklhjptuls.tlrdaaulmjl.o'jstpl.ahytyc”

“B.al.mptylms?”

“B.k,luaxxtuy,larleahuyt--b.a'plkahlutenaj?lYhjpok-ye.aad
yh 'umjstjptjsy?”

“Mlpaj'slnjabclMrl'sboylwmjtlMlbahdpj'sl.mptlms;lM'ply tjplmslojpl.oqtlo
iaaplsmwtc”

“YalbahdplMclXhsluaxxtuylpaj'slpals.oslbokclS.tklodbokyl.mptlmslojp
dtoqtlmsls.tutc”

“Paj'sls.tkleawtlorstulmslojklwaut?”

“Ja,ls.tkls.mjnls.tklbmdd,lxhsls.tklitjtuoddklrauitsls.tlwouny,laultdyt
s.tklpmtclOjkbok,lmsldokyls.tutloldajilsmwtlojplitsyluhysk;lojplxklojp
xklyawtxapklrmjpylojladplktddabl o tuls.oslstddyl.ablsalrmjpls.tlwouny--o
 o tuls.os'yliaslsalxtlem .tutplaqtuloxahslolbttnlxteohytlms'ylwaysdk
ymijylojpl.k'uaidk .meyc”

“.kua--b.me.?”

“.k'uaidk .mey-- meshutylojpls.mjiy,lkahlnjab,ls.oslpaj'slyttwlsalwtoj
ojks.mjic”

“.oqtlkahliaslajtlarls.twl o tuy,lSaw?”

“Jac”

“Btddls.tj,l.ablkahliamjilsalrmjpls.tlwouny?”

“Mlpaj'slbojslojklwounyclS.tklodbokylxhuklmslhjptulol.o'jstpl.ahytlaulaj
ojlmydojp,laulhjptulolptoplsuttls.os'yliaslajtldmwxlysmenmjilahsclBtdd,
bt'qtlsumtplVoenyaj'ylMydojploldmssdt,lojplbtleojlsuklmsloiomjlyawt
smwt;lojpls.tut'yls.tladpl.o'jstpl.ahytlh ls.tlYsmdd-.ahytlxuoje.,lojp
s.tut'yldasylarlptop-dmwxlsutty--ptopldaopylarl'twc”

“Mylmslhjptuloddlarls.tw?”

“.ablkahlsodn!lJa!”

“S.tjl.ablkahliamjilsalnjablb.me.lajtlsalialrau?”

“Ialrauloddlarl'tw!”

“B.k,lSaw,lms'ddlsontloddlyhwwtuc”

“Btdd,lb.oslarls.os?lYh  aytlkahlrmjplolxuoyyl aslbms.lol.hjputplpaddouy
mjlms,loddluhysklojpliuok,lauluasstjle.tyslrhddlarlpm'wajpycl.ab'y
s.os?”

.hen'yltktylidabtpc

“S.os'ylxhddkcl dtjsklxhddkltjahi.lraulwtclVhyslkahlimwwtls.tl.hjputp
paddouylojplMlpaj'slbojsljalpm'wajpyc”

“Oddlumi.sclXhslMlxtslkahlMlomj'sliamjilsals.uablarrlajlpm'wajpyclYawt
arl'tw'ylbaus.lsbtjsklpaddouylo mtet--s.tutlomj'slojk,l.oupdk,lxhs'y
baus.lymzlxmsylaulolpaddouc”

“Ja!lMyls.oslya?”

“Etus'jdk--ojkxapk'ddlstddlkahlyacl.omj'slkahltqtulyttjlajt,l.hen?”

“JasloylMlutwtwxtuc”

“A.,lnmjiyl.oqtlydos.tuylarls.twc”

“Btdd,lMlpaj'lnjabljalnmjiy,lSawc”

“Mlutenajlkahlpaj'sclXhslmrlkahlboylsalialsalThua tlkah'plyttloluorslar
'twl.a  mjilouahjpc”

“Pals.tkl.a ?”

“.a ?--kahuliuojjk!lJa!”

“Btdd,lb.oslpmplkahlyokls.tklpmp,lrau?”

“Y.heny,lMlajdklwtojslkah'pl_ytt_l'tw--jasl.a  mji,larleahuyt--b.oslpa
s.tklbojslsal.a lrau?--xhslMlwtojlkah'plvhyslyttl'tw--yeosstutplouahjp,
kahlnjab,lmjlolnmjplarlolitjtuodlbokclDmntls.osladpl.hw xoentplUme.oupc”

“Ume.oup?lB.os'yl.mylas.tuljowt?”

“.tlpmpj'sl.oqtlojklas.tuljowtclNmjiylpaj'sl.oqtlojklxhslolimqtjljowtc”

“Ja?”

“Xhsls.tklpaj'sc”

“Btdd,lmrls.tkldmntlms,lSaw,loddlumi.s;lxhslMlpaj'slbojslsalxtlolnmji
ojpl.oqtlajdklvhyslolimqtjljowt,ldmntloljmiituclXhslyok--b.tutlkahliamji
salpmilrmuys?”

“Btdd,lMlpaj'slnjabclY' aytlbtlsoendtls.osladplptop-dmwxlsuttlajls.t
.mddls'as.tulymptlarlYsmdd-.ahytlxuoje.?”

“M'wloiuttpc”

Yals.tkliasloleum  dtpl menlojploly.aqtd,lojplytslahslajls.tmu
s.utt-wmdtlsuow clS.tklouumqtpl.aslojpl ojsmji,lojpls.utbls.twytdqty
pabjlmjls.tly.optlarloljtmi.xaumjiltdwlsalutyslojpl.oqtlolywantc

“Mldmntls.my,”lyomplSawc

“YalpalMc”

“Yok,l.hen,lmrlbtlrmjplolsutoyhutl.tut,lb.oslkahliamjilsalpalbms.lkahu
y.out?”

“Btdd,lM'ddl.oqtl mtlojplolidoyylarlyapoltqtuklpok,lojplM'ddlialsaltqtuk
emuehyls.osleawtylodajiclMlxtslM'ddl.oqtlolioklsmwtc”

“Btdd,lomj'slkahliamjilsalyoqtlojklarlms?”

“Yoqtlms?lB.oslrau?”

“B.k,lyaloylsal.oqtlyawts.mjilsaldmqtlaj,lxklojplxkc”

“A.,ls.oslomj'slojklhytcl o lbahdpleawtlxoenlsals.my.-ktulsabjlyawtlpok
ojplitsl.myledobylajlmslmrlMlpmpj'sl.huuklh ,lojplMlstddlkahl.t'pledtoj
mslahsl utssklghmenclB.oslkahliamjilsalpalbms.lkahuj,lSaw?”

“M'wliamjilsalxhkloljtblpuhw,lojplolyhut'jahi.lybaup,lojplolutpljtensmt
ojplolxhddl h ,lojplitslwouumtpc”

“Wouumtp!”

“S.os'ylmsc”

“Saw,lkah--b.k,lkahlomj'slmjlkahulumi.slwmjpc”

“Boms--kah'ddlyttc”

“Btdd,ls.os'yls.tlraadmy.tysls.mjilkahleahdplpaclDaanlosl o lojplwk
was.tuclRmi.s!lB.k,ls.tklhytplsalrmi.sloddls.tlsmwtclMlutwtwxtu,lwmi.sk
btddc”

“S.oslomj'slojks.mjiclS.tlimudlM'wliamjilsalwouuklbaj'slrmi.sc”

“Saw,lMlutenajls.tk'utloddlodmntclS.tk'ddloddleawxlolxapkclJablkah
xtsstuls.mjnl'xahsls.mylob.mdtclMlstddlkahlkahlxtsstuclB.os'yls.tljowt
arls.tliod?”

“Mslomj'sloliodloslodd--ms'ylolimudc”

“Ms'yloddls.tlyowt,lMlutenaj;lyawtlyokyliod,lyawtlyokylimud--xas.'y
umi.s,ldmntltjahi.clOjkbok,lb.os'yl.tuljowt,lSaw?”

“M'ddlstddlkahlyawtlsmwt--jasljabc”

“Oddlumi.s--s.os'ddlpaclAjdklmrlkahlitslwouumtplM'ddlxtlwautldajtyawtu
s.ojltqtuc”

“Jalkahlbaj'sclKah'ddleawtlojpldmqtlbms.lwtclJablysmulahslarls.mylojp
bt'ddlialsalpmiimjic”

S.tklbauntplojplybtostplraul.odrlojl.ahuclJalutyhdsclS.tklsamdtplojas.tu
.odr.ahuclYsmddljalutyhdscl.henlyomp:

“Pals.tklodbokylxhuklmsloylptt loyls.my?”

“Yawtsmwty--jaslodbokyclJaslitjtuoddkclMlutenajlbtl.oqtj'sliasls.tlumi.s
 doetc”

Yals.tkle.aytloljtbly aslojplxtiojloiomjclS.tldoxaulpuoiitploldmssdt,
xhslysmddls.tklwoptl uaiutyyclS.tkl tiitploboklmjlymdtjetlraulyawtlsmwtc
Rmjoddkl.henldtojtplajl.myly.aqtd,lyboxxtpls.tlxtoptplpua ylruawl.my
xuablbms.l.mylydttqt,lojplyomp:

“B.tutlkahliamjilsalpmiljtzs,lorstulbtlitsls.mylajt?”

“Mlutenajlwokxtlbt'ddlsoendtls.tladplsuttls.os'ylaqtulkajptulajlEoupmrr
.mddlxoenlarls.tlbmpab'yc”

“Mlutenajls.os'ddlxtloliaaplajtclXhslbaj'sls.tlbmpablsontlmsloboklruaw
hy,lSaw?lMs'ylajl.tuldojpc”

“_Y.t_lsontlmslobok!lWokxtly.t'pldmntlsalsuklmslajetclB.atqtulrmjpylajt
arls.tytl.mplsutoyhuty,lmslxtdajiylsal.mwclMslpaj'slwontlojklpmrrtutjet
b.aytldojplms'ylajc”

S.oslboylyosmyroesaukclS.tlbaunlbtjslajclXklojplxkl.henlyomp:

“Xdowtlms,lbtlwhyslxtlmjls.tlbuajil doetloiomjclB.oslpalkahls.mjn?”

“Mslmylwmi.sklehumahy,l.henclMlpaj'slhjptuysojplmsclYawtsmwtylbmse.ty
mjsturtutclMlutenajlwokxtls.os'ylb.os'yls.tlsuahxdtljabc”

“Y.heny!lBmse.tylomj'sliasljal abtulmjls.tlpoksmwtc”

“Btdd,ls.os'ylyaclMlpmpj'sls.mjnlarls.osclA.,lMlnjablb.osls.tlwosstulmy!
B.oslolxdowtpldaslarlraadylbtlout!lKahliaslsalrmjplahslb.tutls.tly.opab
arls.tldmwxlroddyloslwmpjmi.s,lojpls.os'ylb.tutlkahlpmi!”

“S.tjleajyahjplms,lbt'qtlraadtplobokloddls.mylbaunlrauljas.mjiclJabl.oji
mslodd,lbtliaslsaleawtlxoenlmjls.tljmi.sclMs'ylojlobrhdldajilbokclEoj
kahlitslahs?”

“MlxtslMlbmddclBt'qtliaslsalpalmslsajmi.s,lsaa,lxteohytlmrlyawtxapklytty
s.tytl.adtyls.tk'ddlnjablmjlolwmjhstlb.os'yl.tutlojpls.tk'ddlialraulmsc”

“Btdd,lM'ddleawtlouahjplojplwoablsajmi.sc”

“Oddlumi.sclDts'yl.mptls.tlsaadylmjls.tlxhy.tyc”

S.tlxakylbtutls.tutls.osljmi.s,loxahsls.tlo  amjstplsmwtclS.tklyoslmj
s.tly.opablbomsmjiclMslboyloldajtdkl doet,lojplojl.ahulwoptlyadtwjlxk
adplsuopmsmajyclY mumsylb.my tutplmjls.tluhysdmjildtoqty,li.aysyldhuntp
mjls.tlwhunkljaany,ls.tlptt lxokmjilarlol.ahjplrdaostplh lahslarls.t
pmysojet,lojlabdlojybtutplbms.l.mylyt hde.uodljastclS.tlxakylbtut
yhxphtplxkls.tytlyadtwjmsmty,lojplsodntpldmssdtclXklojplxkls.tklvhpitp
s.oslsbtdqtl.opleawt;ls.tklwountplb.tutls.tly.opablrtdd,lojplxtiojlsa
pmiclS.tmul.a tyleawwtjetplsalumytclS.tmulmjstutysliutblysuajitu,lojp
s.tmulmjphysuklnt sl oetlbms.lmsclS.tl.adtlptt tjtplojplysmddlptt tjtp,
xhsltqtuklsmwtls.tmul.tousylvhw tplsal.touls.tl menlysumntlh aj
yawts.mji,ls.tklajdklyhrrtutploljtblpmyo  amjswtjsclMslboylajdklolysajt
aulole.hjnclOsldoyslSawlyomp:

“Mslomj'slojklhyt,l.hen,lbt'utlbuajiloiomjc”

“Btdd,lxhslbtl_eoj's_lxtlbuajiclBtly asstpls.tly.opptulsalolpasc”

“Mlnjablms,lxhsls.tjls.tut'ylojas.tuls.mjic”

“B.os'yls.os?”c

“B.k,lbtlajdklihtyytplosls.tlsmwtclDmntltjahi.lmslboylsaaldostlaulsaa
toudkc”

.henlpua  tpl.myly.aqtdc

“S.os'ylms,”lyompl.tcl“S.os'yls.tlqtuklsuahxdtclBtliaslsalimqtls.mylajt
h clBtleoj'sltqtulstddls.tlumi.slsmwt,lojplxtymptyls.mylnmjplarls.mji'y
saalobrhd,l.tutls.mylsmwtlarljmi.slbms.lbmse.tylojpli.aysylo-rdhsstumji
ouahjplyaclMlrttdloylmrlyawts.mji'ylxt.mjplwtloddls.tlsmwt;l ojplM'w
ortouplsalshujlouahjp,lxtehflwokxtls.tut'ylas.tuylmjlruajslo-bomsmjilrau
ole.ojetclMlxttjleutt mjiloddlaqtu,ltqtulymjetlMliasl.tutc”

“Btdd,lM'qtlxttjl utssklwhe.lya,lsaa,l.henclS.tklwayslodbokyl hslmjlo
ptoplwojlb.tjls.tklxhuklolsutoyhutlhjptulolsutt,lsaldaanlahslraulmsc”

“Daupk!”

“Kty,ls.tklpaclM'qtlodbokyl.toupls.osc”

“Saw,lMlpaj'sldmntlsalraadlouahjplwhe.lb.tutls.tut'ylptopl ta dtclO
xapk'ylxahjplsalitslmjsalsuahxdtlbms.l'tw,lyhutc”

“Mlpaj'sldmntlsalysmul'twlh ,ltms.tuclY' aytls.mylajtl.tutlboylsalysmen
.mylynhddlahslojplyoklyawts.mji!”

“Paj'slSaw!lMs'ylobrhdc”

“Btdd,lmslvhyslmycl.hen,lMlpaj'slrttdleawrausoxdtlolxmsc”

“Yok,lSaw,ldts'ylimqtls.myl doetlh ,lojplsuklyawtb.tutyltdytc”

“Oddlumi.s,lMlutenajlbtlxtsstuc”

“B.os'ddlmslxt?”

Sawleajymptutplob.mdt;lojpls.tjlyomp:

“S.tl.o'jstpl.ahytclS.os'ylms!”

“Xdowtlms,lMlpaj'sldmntl.o'jstpl.ahyty,lSawclB.k,ls.tk'utlolptujlymi.s
bauyt'jlptopl ta dtclPtopl ta dtlwmi.slsodn,lwokxt,lxhsls.tklpaj'sleawt
ydmpmjilouahjplmjloly.uahp,lb.tjlkahlomj'sljasmemji,lojpl tt laqtulkahu
y.ahdptuloddlarlolyhpptjlojpliumsls.tmulstts.,ls.tlbokloli.ayslpatyclM
eahdpj'slysojplyhe.lols.mjiloyls.os,lSaw--jaxapkleahdpc”

“Kty,lxhs,l.hen,li.aysylpaj'slsuoqtdlouahjplajdklosljmi.sclS.tklbaj's
.tjptulhylruawlpmiimjils.tutlmjls.tlpoksmwtc”

“Btdd,ls.os'ylyaclXhslkahlnjablwmi.sklbtddl ta dtlpaj'slialoxahsls.os
.o'jstpl.ahytlmjls.tlpokljauls.tljmi.sc”

“Btdd,ls.os'ylwaysdklxteohytls.tklpaj'sldmntlsalialb.tutlolwoj'ylxttj
whuptutp,lojkbok--xhsljas.mji'yltqtulxttjlyttjlouahjpls.osl.ahytltzet s
mjls.tljmi.s--vhyslyawtlxdhtldmi.sylydm  mjilxkls.tlbmjpaby--jalutihdou
i.aysyc”

“Btdd,lb.tutlkahlyttlajtlarls.twlxdhtldmi.sylrdmentumjilouahjp,lSaw,
kahleojlxtsls.tut'yloli.ayslwmi.skledaytlxt.mjplmsclMslysojpylsalutoyajc
Xtehflkahlnjabls.osls.tklpaj'slojkxapklxhsli.aysylhytl'twc”

“Kty,ls.os'ylyaclXhslojkbokls.tklpaj'sleawtlouahjplmjls.tlpoksmwt,lya
b.os'yls.tlhytlarlahulxtmjilortoup?”

“Btdd,loddlumi.sclBt'ddlsoendtls.tl.o'jstpl.ahytlmrlkahlyoklya--xhslM
utenajlms'ylsonmjile.ojetyc”

S.tkl.oplysoustplpabjls.tl.mddlxkls.mylsmwtclS.tutlmjls.tlwmppdtlarls.t
waajdmslqoddtklxtdabls.twlysaapls.tl“.o'jstp”l.ahyt,lhsstudklmyadostp,
msylrtjetyliajtldajiloia,luojnlbttpylywas.tumjils.tlqtuklpaauyst y,ls.t
e.mwjtkleuhwxdtplsaluhmj,ls.tlbmjpab-yoy.tylqoeojs,loleaujtularls.tluaar
eoqtplmjclS.tlxakylioftplob.mdt,l.odrltz tesmjilsalyttlolxdhtldmi.slrdms
 oyslolbmjpab;ls.tjlsodnmjilmjloldablsajt,loylxtrmsstpls.tlsmwtlojpls.t
emuehwysojety,ls.tklysuhenlroularrlsals.tlumi.s,lsalimqtls.tl.ohjstp
.ahytlolbmptlxtus.,lojplsaanls.tmulbokl.awtboupls.uahi.ls.tlbaapyls.os
opaujtpls.tlutoubouplymptlarlEoupmrrl.mddc




E.O STUlZQM

OXAHSljaajls.tljtzslpokls.tlxakylouumqtplosls.tlptoplsutt;ls.tkl.opleawt
rauls.tmulsaadyclSawlboylmw osmtjslsalialsals.tl.ohjstpl.ahyt;l.henlboy
wtoyhuoxdklya,lodya--xhslyhpptjdklyomp:

“Daank.tut,lSaw,lpalkahlnjablb.oslpoklmslmy?”

Sawlwtjsoddkluojlaqtuls.tlpokylarls.tlbttn,lojpls.tjlghmendkldmrstpl.my
tktylbms.lolysousdtpldaanlmjls.tw--

“Wk!lMljtqtulajetls.ahi.slarlms,l.hen!”

“Btdd,lMlpmpj'sljtms.tu,lxhsloddloslajetlmsl a  tplajsalwtls.oslmslboy
Rumpokc”

“Xdowtlms,lolxapkleoj'slxtlsaaleoutrhd,l.henclBtlwmi.sl'o'liaslmjsaloj
obrhdlyeuo t,lsoendmjilyhe.lols.mjilajlolRumpokc”

“_Wmi.s_!lXtsstulyoklbtl_bahdp_!lS.tut'ylyawtldhenklpoky,lwokxt,lxhs
Rumpoklomj'sc”

“Ojklraadlnjabyls.osclMlpaj'slutenajl_kah_lboyls.tlrmuysls.oslrahjplms
ahs,l.henc”

“Btdd,lMljtqtulyomplMlboy,lpmplM?lOjplRumpoklomj'slodd,ljtms.tuclMl.oplo
uasstjlxoplputowldoysljmi.s--putow sloxahsluosyc”

“Ja!lYhutlymijlarlsuahxdtclPmpls.tklrmi.s?”

“Jac”

“Btdd,ls.os'yliaap,l.henclB.tjls.tklpaj'slrmi.slms'ylajdklolymijls.os
s.tut'ylsuahxdtlouahjp,lkahlnjabclOddlbtliaslsalpalmylsaldaanlwmi.sk
y.ou lojplntt lahslarlmsclBt'ddlpua ls.myls.mjilraulsapok,lojpl dokclPa
kahlnjablUaxmjl.aap,l.hen?”

“JaclB.a'ylUaxmjl.aap?”

“B.k,l.tlboylajtlarls.tliutostyslwtjls.oslboyltqtulmjlTjidojp--ojpls.t
xtyscl.tlboyloluaxxtuc”

“Euoenk,lMlbmy.slMlboyclB.alpmpl.tluax?”

“Ajdkly.tumrrylojplxmy.a ylojplume.l ta dtlojplnmjiy,lojplyhe.ldmntclXhs
.tljtqtulxas.tutpls.tl aaucl.tldaqtpl'twcl.tlodbokylpmqmptplh lbms.l'tw
 turtesdklyghoutc”

“Btdd,l.tlwhysl'o'lxttjlolxumenc”

“Mlxtslkahl.tlboy,l.henclA.,l.tlboyls.tljaxdtyslwojls.osltqtulboyc
S.tklomj'slojklyhe.lwtjljab,lMleojlstddlkahcl.tleahdpldmenlojklwojlmj
Tjidojp,lbms.lajtl.ojplsmtplxt.mjpl.mw;lojpl.tleahdplsontl.mylktblxab
ojpl dhilolstj-etjsl mtetltqtuklsmwt,lolwmdtlojplol.odrc”

“B.os'ylol_ktb_lxab?”

“Mlpaj'slnjabclMs'ylyawtlnmjplarlolxab,larleahuytclOjplmrl.tl.msls.os
pmwtlajdklajls.tltpitl.tlbahdplytslpabjlojpleuk--ojplehuytclXhslbt'dd
 doklUaxmjl.aap--ms'yljaxxklrhjclM'ddldtoujlkahc”

“M'wloiuttpc”

Yals.tkl doktplUaxmjl.aaploddls.tlorstujaaj,ljablojpls.tjleoysmjilo
ktoujmjiltktlpabjlh ajls.tl.ohjstpl.ahytlojpl oyymjilolutwounloxahsls.t
wauuab'yl uay tesylojpl ayymxmdmsmtyls.tutclOyls.tlyhjlxtiojlsalymjn
mjsals.tlbtysls.tklsaanls.tmulbokl.awtbouplos.bousls.tldajily.opaby
arls.tlsuttylojplyaajlbtutlxhumtplruawlymi.slmjls.tlrautysylarlEoupmrr
.mddc

AjlYoshupok,ly.ausdklorstuljaaj,ls.tlxakylbtutlosls.tlptoplsuttloiomjc
S.tkl.oplolywantlojplole.oslmjls.tly.opt,lojpls.tjlphiloldmssdtlmjls.tmu
doysl.adt,ljaslbms.liutosl.a t,lxhslwtutdklxteohytlSawlyompls.tutlbtut
yalwojkleoytylb.tutl ta dtl.oplimqtjlh lolsutoyhutlorstulitssmjilpabj
bms.mjlymzlmje.tylarlms,lojpls.tjlyawtxapkltdytl.opleawtlodajilojp
shujtplmslh lbms.lolymjidtls.uhyslarloly.aqtdclS.tls.mjilromdtpls.my
smwt,l.abtqtu,lyals.tlxakyly.ahdptutpls.tmulsaadylojplbtjsloboklrttdmji
s.osls.tkl.opljaslsumrdtplbms.lraushjt,lxhsl.oplrhdrmddtploddls.t
utghmutwtjsyls.oslxtdajilsals.tlxhymjtyylarlsutoyhut-.hjsmjic

B.tjls.tklutoe.tpls.tl.ohjstpl.ahytls.tutlboylyawts.mjilyalbtmuplojp
iumydkloxahsls.tlptoplymdtjetls.oslutmijtpls.tutlhjptuls.tlxonmjilyhj,
ojplyawts.mjilyalpt utyymjiloxahsls.tldajtdmjtyylojplptyadosmajlarls.t
 doet,ls.osls.tklbtutloruomp,lraulolwawtjs,lsalqtjshutlmjclS.tjls.tk
eut slsals.tlpaaulojplsaanlolsutwxdmjil tt clS.tklyoblolbttpiuabj,
rdaaudtyyluaaw,lhj doystutp,lojlojemtjslrmut doet,lqoeojslbmjpaby,
oluhmjahylysomueoyt;lojpl.tut,ls.tut,lojpltqtukb.tutl.hjiluoiitplojp
oxojpajtpleaxbtxyclS.tkl utytjsdkltjstutp,lyarsdk,lbms.lghmentjtp
 hdyty,lsodnmjilmjlb.my tuy,ltouylodtuslsaleose.ls.tlydmi.styslyahjp,
ojplwhyedtylstjytlojplutopklraulmjysojslutsutosc

Mjloldmssdtlb.mdtlrowmdmoumsklwapmrmtpls.tmulrtouylojpls.tklioqtls.t
 doetloleumsmeodlojplmjstutystpltzowmjosmaj,luos.tulopwmumjils.tmulabj
xadpjtyy,lojplbajptumjiloslms,lsaaclJtzsls.tklbojstplsaldaanlh ysomuyc
S.mylboylyawts.mjildmntlehssmjilarrlutsutos,lxhsls.tkliaslsalpoumji
toe.las.tu,lojplarleahuytls.tutleahdplxtlxhslajtlutyhds--s.tkls.utbls.tmu
saadylmjsaloleaujtulojplwoptls.tloyetjsclH ls.tutlbtutls.tlyowtlymijylar
pteokclMjlajtleaujtuls.tklrahjploledaytsls.osl uawmytplwkystuk,lxhsls.t
 uawmytlboylolruohp--s.tutlboyljas.mjilmjlmsclS.tmuleahuoitlboylh ljab
ojplbtddlmjl.ojpclS.tklbtutloxahslsalialpabjlojplxtimjlbaunlb.tj--

“Y.!”lyomplSawc

“B.oslmylms?”lb.my tutpl.hen,lxdoje.mjilbms.lrumi.sc

“Y.!ccclS.tut!cccl.toulms?”

“Kty!ccclA.,lwk!lDts'yluhj!”

“Ntt lysmdd!lPaj'slkahlxhpit!lS.tk'utleawmjilumi.slsaboupls.tlpaauc”

S.tlxakylysutse.tpls.twytdqtylh ajls.tlrdaaulbms.ls.tmultktylsa
njas.adtylmjls.tl dojnmji,lojpldoklbomsmji,lmjlolwmytuklarlrtouc

“S.tk'qtlysa  tpcccclJa--eawmjiccccl.tutls.tkloutclPaj'slb.my tulojas.tu
baup,l.henclWkliaapjtyy,lMlbmy.lMlboylahslarls.my!”

SbalwtjltjstutpclToe.lxaklyomplsal.mwytdr:l“S.tut'yls.tladplptorlojp
phwxlY ojmoupls.os'ylxttjloxahslsabjlajetlaulsbmetldostdk--jtqtulyob
s'as.tulwojlxtrautc”

“S'as.tu”lboyloluoiitp,lhjntw sleutoshut,lbms.ljas.mjilqtukl dtoyojs
mjl.mylroetclS.tlY ojmouplboylbuo  tplmjlolytuo t;l.tl.oplxhy.klb.mst
b.myntuy;ldajilb.mstl.omulrdabtplruawlhjptul.mylyawxutua,lojpl.tlbaut
iuttjliaiidtyclB.tjls.tkleowtlmj,l“s'as.tu”lboylsodnmjilmjloldablqamet;
s.tklyoslpabjlajls.tliuahjp,lroemjils.tlpaau,lbms.ls.tmulxoenylsals.t
bodd,lojpls.tly tontuleajsmjhtpl.mylutwounycl.mylwojjtulxteowtldtyy
ihouptplojpl.mylbaupylwautlpmysmjesloyl.tl uaettptp:

“Ja,”lyompl.t,l“M'qtls.ahi.slmsloddlaqtu,lojplMlpaj'sldmntlmsclMs'y
pojituahyc”

“Pojituahy!”liuhjstpls.tl“ptorlojplphwx”lY ojmoup--sals.tlqoyslyhu umyt
arls.tlxakycl“Wmdnya !”

S.mylqametlwoptls.tlxakylioy lojplghontclMslboylMjvhjlVat'y!lS.tutlboy
ymdtjetlraulyawtlsmwtclS.tjlVatlyomp:

“B.os'ylojklwautlpojituahyls.ojls.oslvaxlh lkajptu--xhsljas.mji'yleawtlar
msc”

“S.os'ylpmrrtutjsclOboklh ls.tlumqtulya,lojpljaslojas.tul.ahytloxahsc
'Sbaj'sltqtulxtlnjabjls.oslbtlsumtp,lojkbok,ldajiloylbtlpmpj'slyheettpc”

“Btdd,lb.os'ylwautlpojituahyls.ojleawmjil.tutlmjls.tlpoksmwt!--ojkxapk
bahdplyhy memajlhyls.oslyoblhyc”

“Mlnjabls.osclXhsls.tutlbouj'slojklas.tul doetloyl.ojpklorstuls.oslraad
arlolvaxclMlbojslsalghmsls.myly.ojskclMlbojstplsalktystupok,lajdklms
bouj'slojklhytlsukmjilsalysmulahslarl.tut,lbms.ls.aytlmjrtujodlxaky
 dokmjilaqtuls.tutlajls.tl.mddlumi.slmjlrhddlqmtbc”

“S.aytlmjrtujodlxaky”lghontploiomjlhjptuls.tlmjy muosmajlarls.mylutwoun,
ojpls.ahi.sl.abldhenklmslboyls.osls.tkl.oplutwtwxtutplmslboylRumpoklojp
eajedhptplsalbomslolpokclS.tklbmy.tplmjls.tmul.tousyls.tkl.oplbomstplo
ktouc

S.tlsbalwtjliaslahslyawtlraaplojplwoptloldhje.tajclOrstuloldajilojp
s.ahi.srhdlymdtjet,lMjvhjlVatlyomp:

“Daanl.tut,ldop--kahlialxoenlh ls.tlumqtulb.tutlkahlxtdajiclBomsls.tut
smddlkahl.toulruawlwtclM'ddlsontls.tle.ojetylajlpua  mjilmjsals.mylsabj
vhyslajetlwaut,lrauloldaanclBt'ddlpals.osl'pojituahy'lvaxlorstulM'qt
y mtplouahjploldmssdtlojpls.mjnls.mjiyldaanlbtddlraulmsclS.tjlraulStzoy!
Bt'ddldtilmslsaits.tu!”

S.mylboylyosmyroesaukclXas.lwtjl utytjsdklrtddlsalkobjmji,lojplMjvhjlVat
yomp:

“M'wlptoplraulydtt !lMs'ylkahulshujlsalbose.c”

.tlehudtplpabjlmjls.tlbttpylojplyaajlxtiojlsalyjautcl.myleawuoptlysmuutp
.mwlajetlaulsbmetlojpl.tlxteowtlghmtscl utytjsdkls.tlbose.tulxtiojlsa
jap;l.myl.toplpuaa tpldabtulojpldabtu,lxas.lwtjlxtiojlsalyjautljabc

S.tlxakylputbloldaji,liuostrhdlxutos.clSawlb.my tutp:

“Jab'ylahule.ojet--eawt!”

.henlyomp:

“Mleoj's--M'plpmtlmrls.tklboylsalbontc”

Sawlhuitp--.henl.tdplxoenclOsldoyslSawluaytlydabdklojplyarsdk,lojp
ysoustplodajtclXhsls.tlrmuyslyst l.tlwoptlbuhjilyhe.lol.mptahyleuton
ruawls.tleuofklrdaauls.osl.tlyojnlpabjlodwayslptoplbms.lrumi.scl.tljtqtu
woptlolyteajplosstw sclS.tlxakyldokls.tutleahjsmjils.tlpuoiimjilwawtjsy
smddlmslyttwtplsals.twls.oslsmwtlwhyslxtlpajtlojpltstujmskliuabmjiliuok;
ojpls.tjls.tklbtutliuostrhdlsaljastls.oslosldoysls.tlyhjlboylytssmjic

JablajtlyjautletoytpclMjvhjlVatlyoslh ,lysoutplouahjp--ywmdtpliumwdklh aj
.myleawuopt,lb.aytl.toplboylpuaa mjilh ajl.mylnjtty--ysmuutpl.mwlh lbms.
.mylraaslojplyomp:

“.tut!l_Kah'ut_lolbose.woj,lomj'slkah!lOddlumi.s,ls.ahi.--jas.mji'y
.o  tjtpc”

“Wk!l.oqtlMlxttjloydtt ?”

“A.,l ousdk,l ousdkclJtoudklsmwtlraulhylsalxtlwaqmji,l oupclB.os'ddlbt
palbms.lb.osldmssdtlyboilbt'qtliasldtrs?”

“Mlpaj'slnjab--dtoqtlmsl.tutloylbt'qtlodbokylpajt,lMlutenajclJalhytlsa
sontlmsloboklsmddlbtlysouslyahs.clYmzl.hjputplojplrmrsklmjlymdqtu'y
yawts.mjilsaleouukc”

“Btdd--oddlumi.s--mslbaj'slwosstulsaleawtl.tutlajetlwautc”

“Ja--xhslM'plyokleawtlmjls.tljmi.sloylbtlhytplsalpa--ms'ylxtsstuc”

“Kty:lxhsldaanl.tut;lmslwoklxtloliaaplb.mdtlxtrautlMlitsls.tlumi.s
e.ojetlosls.oslvax;loeemptjsylwmi.sl.o  tj;l'somj'slmjlyhe.lolqtukliaap
 doet;lbt'ddlvhyslutihdoudklxhuklms--ojplxhuklmslptt c”

“Iaaplmpto,”lyompls.tleawuopt,lb.albodntploeuayyls.tluaaw,lnjtdslpabj,
uomytplajtlarls.tlutouboupl.tous.-ysajtylojplsaanlahslolxoils.oslvmjidtp
 dtoyojsdkcl.tlyhxsuoestplruawlmslsbtjsklauls.musklpaddouylraul.mwytdr
ojploylwhe.lraulMjvhjlVat,lojpl oyytpls.tlxoilsals.tldosstu,lb.alboylaj
.mylnjttylmjls.tleaujtu,ljab,lpmiimjilbms.l.mylxabmt-njmrtc

S.tlxakylrauiasloddls.tmulrtouy,loddls.tmulwmytumtylmjlojlmjysojsclBms.
idaosmjiltktyls.tklbose.tpltqtuklwaqtwtjsclDhen!--s.tly dtjpaularlmslboy
xtkajploddlmwoimjosmaj!lYmzl.hjputplpaddouylboylwajtkltjahi.lsalwont
.odrlolpaftjlxakylume.!l.tutlboylsutoyhut-.hjsmjilhjptuls.tl.o  mtys
ohy mety--s.tutlbahdpljaslxtlojklxas.tuyawtlhjetusomjskloylsalb.tutlsa
pmiclS.tkljhpitpltoe.las.tultqtuklwawtjs--tdaghtjsljhpitylojpltoymdk
hjptuysaap,lrauls.tklymw dklwtojs--“A.,lxhslomj'slkahlidopl_jab_lbt'ut
.tut!”

Vat'ylnjmrtlysuhenlh ajlyawts.mjic

“.tdda!”lyompl.tc

“B.oslmylms?”lyompl.myleawuoptc

“.odr-uasstjl dojn--ja,lms'ylolxaz,lMlxtdmtqtcl.tut--xtoulol.ojplojplbt'dd
yttlb.oslms'yl.tutlrauclJtqtulwmjp,lM'qtlxuantlol.adtc”

.tlutoe.tpl.myl.ojplmjlojplputblmslahs--

“Woj,lms'ylwajtk!”

S.tlsbalwtjltzowmjtpls.tl.ojprhdlarleamjyclS.tklbtutliadpclS.tlxaky
oxaqtlbtutloyltzemstployls.twytdqty,lojploylptdmi.stpc

Vat'yleawuoptlyomp:

“Bt'ddlwontlghmenlbaunlarls.myclS.tut'ylojladpluhyskl menlaqtulowajiys
s.tlbttpylmjls.tleaujtuls.tlas.tulymptlarls.tlrmut doet--Mlyoblmslo
wmjhstloiac”

.tluojlojplxuahi.sls.tlxaky'l menlojply.aqtdclMjvhjlVatlsaanls.t
 men,ldaantplmslaqtuleumsmeoddk,ly.aanl.myl.top,lwhsstutplyawts.mjilsa
.mwytdr,lojpls.tjlxtiojlsalhytlmsclS.tlxazlboylyaajlhjtous.tpclMslboy
jaslqtukldouit;lmslboylmuajlxahjplojpl.oplxttjlqtuklysuajilxtrautls.t
ydablktouyl.oplmjvhutplmsclS.tlwtjleajstw dostpls.tlsutoyhutlob.mdtlmj
xdmyyrhdlymdtjetc

“ oup,ls.tut'yls.ahyojpylarlpaddouyl.tut,”lyomplMjvhjlVatc

“'Sboylodbokylyompls.oslWhuutd'yliojilhytplsalxtlouahjpl.tutlajt
yhwwtu,”ls.tlysuojitulaxytuqtpc

“Mlnjablms,”lyomplMjvhjlVat;l“ojpls.myldaanyldmntlms,lMly.ahdplyokc”

“Jablkahlbaj'sljttplsalpals.oslvaxc”

S.tl.odrxuttplruabjtpclYompl.t:

“Kahlpaj'slnjablwtclDtoyslkahlpaj'slnjabloddloxahsls.osls.mjicl'Somj's
uaxxtuklodsaits.tu--ms'yl_utqtjit_!”lojplolbmentpldmi.slrdowtplmjl.my
tktycl“M'ddljttplkahul.td lmjlmsclB.tjlms'ylrmjmy.tp--s.tjlStzoyclIal.awt
salkahulJojetlojplkahulnmpy,lojplysojplxklsmddlkahl.toulruawlwtc”

“Btdd--mrlkahlyoklya;lb.os'ddlbtlpalbms.ls.my--xhuklmsloiomj?”

“Ktycl[Uoqmy.mjilptdmi.slaqtu.topc]l_Ja_!lxkls.tliutoslYoe.tw,lja!
[ uarahjplpmysutyylaqtu.topc]lM'pljtoudklrauiasclS.osl menl.oplruty.
tous.lajlms!l[S.tlxakylbtutlymenlbms.lstuuaulmjlolwawtjsc]lB.oslxhymjtyy
.oylol menlojploly.aqtdl.tut?lB.oslxhymjtyylbms.lruty.ltous.laj
s.tw?lB.alxuahi.sls.twl.tut--ojplb.tutloutls.tkliajt?l.oqtlkahl.toup
ojkxapk?--yttjlojkxapk?lB.os!lxhuklmsloiomjlojpldtoqtls.twlsaleawtlojp
yttls.tliuahjplpmyshuxtp?lJasltzoesdk--jasltzoesdkclBt'ddlsontlmslsalwk
ptjc”

“B.k,larleahuyt!lWmi.sl.oqtls.ahi.slarls.oslxtrautclKahlwtojlJhwxtu
Ajt?”

“Ja--JhwxtulSba--hjptuls.tleuayyclS.tlas.tul doetlmylxop--saaleawwajc”

“Oddlumi.sclMs'yljtoudklpounltjahi.lsalysousc”

MjvhjlVatliaslh lojplbtjsloxahslruawlbmjpablsalbmjpableohsmahydkl tt mji
ahscl utytjsdkl.tlyomp:

“B.aleahdpl.oqtlxuahi.sls.aytlsaadyl.tut?lPalkahlutenajls.tkleojlxt
h ysomuy?”

S.tlxaky'lxutos.lrauyaanls.twclMjvhjlVatl hsl.myl.ojplajl.mylnjmrt,
.odstplolwawtjs,lhjptemptp,lojpls.tjlshujtplsaboupls.tlysomubokclS.t
xakyls.ahi.slarls.tledayts,lxhsls.tmulysutjis.lboyliajtclS.tlyst yleowt
eutonmjilh ls.tlysomuy--s.tlmjsadtuoxdtlpmysutyylarls.tlymshosmajlbant
s.tlysumentjlutyadhsmajlarls.tldopy--s.tklbtutloxahslsaly umjilrauls.t
edayts,lb.tjls.tutlboyloleuoy.larluasstjlsmwxtuylojplMjvhjlVatldojptplaj
s.tliuahjplowmpls.tlptxumylarls.tluhmjtplysomubokcl.tlios.tutpl.mwytdr
h lehuymji,lojpl.myleawuoptlyomp:

“Jablb.os'yls.tlhytlarloddls.os?lMrlms'ylojkxapk,lojpls.tk'utlh ls.tut,
dtsls.twl_ysok_ls.tut--b.aleouty?lMrls.tklbojslsalvhw lpabj,ljab,lojplits
mjsalsuahxdt,lb.alaxvtesy?lMslbmddlxtlpounlmjlrmrsttjlwmjhsty--ojpls.tj
dtsls.twlraddablhylmrls.tklbojslsaclM'wlbmddmjiclMjlwkla mjmaj,lb.atqtu
.aqtls.aytls.mjiylmjl.tutleohi.slolymi.slarlhylojplsaanlhylrauli.aysylau
ptqmdylaulyawts.mjiclM'ddlxtsls.tk'utluhjjmjilktsc”

Vatliuhwxdtplob.mdt;ls.tjl.tloiuttplbms.l.mylrumtjpls.oslb.oslpokdmi.s
boyldtrslahi.slsalxtlteajawmftplmjlitssmjils.mjiylutopklrauldtoqmjic
Y.ausdklorstuboupls.tklydm  tplahslarls.tl.ahytlmjls.tlptt tjmji
sbmdmi.s,lojplwaqtplsaboupls.tlumqtulbms.ls.tmul utemahylxazc

Sawlojpl.henluaytlh ,lbtonlxhslqoysdklutdmtqtp,lojplysoutplorstuls.tw
s.uahi.ls.tle.mjnylxtsbttjls.tldaiylarls.tl.ahytclRaddab?lJasls.tkclS.tk
btutleajstjslsalutoe.liuahjploiomjlbms.ahslxuantjljteny,lojplsontls.t
sabjbouplsuoenlaqtuls.tl.mddclS.tklpmpljaslsodnlwhe.clS.tklbtutlsaalwhe.
oxyauxtplmjl.osmjils.twytdqty--.osmjils.tlmddldhenls.oslwoptls.twlsont
s.tly optlojpls.tl menls.tutclXhslrauls.os,lMjvhjlVatljtqtulbahdpl.oqt
yhy testpcl.tlbahdpl.oqtl.mpptjls.tlymdqtulbms.ls.tliadplsalboms
s.tutlsmddl.myl“utqtjit”lboylyosmyrmtp,lojpls.tjl.tlbahdpl.oqtl.opls.t
wmyraushjtlsalrmjpls.oslwajtklshujlh lwmyymjiclXmsstu,lxmsstuldhenls.os
s.tlsaadylbtutltqtulxuahi.sls.tut!

S.tklutyadqtplsalntt loldaanahslrauls.oslY ojmouplb.tjl.tly.ahdpleawtlsa
sabjly kmjilahslraule.ojetylsalpal.mylutqtjitrhdlvax,lojplraddabl.mwlsa
“JhwxtulSba,”lb.tutqtuls.oslwmi.slxtclS.tjloli.oysdkls.ahi.slaeehuutplsa
Sawc

“Utqtjit?lB.oslmrl.tlwtojyl_hy_,l.hen!”

“A.,lpaj's!”lyompl.hen,ljtoudklromjsmjic

S.tklsodntplmsloddlaqtu,lojployls.tkltjstutplsabjls.tkloiuttplsalxtdmtqt
s.osl.tlwmi.sl ayymxdklwtojlyawtxapkltdyt--osldtoysls.osl.tlwmi.slos
dtoyslwtojljaxapklxhslSaw,lymjetlajdklSawl.oplstysmrmtpc

Qtuk,lqtuklywoddleawrauslmslboylsalSawlsalxtlodajtlmjlpojitu!lEaw ojk
bahdplxtlol od oxdtlmw uaqtwtjs,l.tls.ahi.sc




E.O STUlZZQMM

S.Tlopqtjshutlarls.tlpoklwmi.smdklsauwtjstplSaw'ylputowyls.osljmi.sc
Rahulsmwtyl.tl.opl.myl.ojpylajls.oslume.lsutoyhutlojplrahulsmwty
mslboystplsaljas.mjijtyylmjl.mylrmjituyloylydtt lrauyaanl.mwlojp
bontrhdjtyylxuahi.slxoenls.tl.ouplutodmsklarl.mylwmyraushjtclOyl.tldok
mjls.tltoudklwaujmjiluteoddmjils.tlmjemptjsylarl.myliutoslopqtjshut,l.t
jasmetpls.osls.tklyttwtplehumahydklyhxphtplojplroulobok--yawtb.osloylmr
s.tkl.opl.o  tjtplmjlojas.tulbaudp,laulmjlolsmwtldajiliajtlxkclS.tjlms
aeehuutplsal.mwls.osls.tliutoslopqtjshutlmsytdrlwhyslxtlolputow!lS.tut
boylajtlqtuklysuajilouihwtjslmjlroqaularls.mylmpto--jowtdk,ls.osls.t
ghojsmsklarleamjl.tl.oplyttjlboylsaalqoyslsalxtlutodcl.tl.opljtqtulyttj
oylwhe.loylrmrsklpaddouylmjlajtlwoyylxtraut,lojpl.tlboyldmntloddlxakylar
.myloitlojplysosmajlmjldmrt,lmjls.osl.tlmwoimjtpls.osloddlutrtutjetylsa
“.hjputpy”lojpl“s.ahyojpy”lbtutlwtutlrojemrhdlrauwylarly tte.,lojpls.os
jalyhe.lyhwylutoddkltzmystplmjls.tlbaudpcl.tljtqtul.oplyh  aytplrau
olwawtjsls.oslyaldouitlolyhwloylol.hjputplpaddouylboylsalxtlrahjplmj
oeshodlwajtklmjlojklajt'yl ayytyymajclMrl.myljasmajylarl.mpptjlsutoyhut
.oplxttjlojodkftp,ls.tklbahdpl.oqtlxttjlrahjplsaleajymyslarlol.ojprhdlar
utodlpmwtylojplolxhy.tdlarlqoiht,ly dtjpmp,lhjiuoy oxdtlpaddouyc

Xhsls.tlmjemptjsylarl.mylopqtjshutliutblytjymxdkly.ou tulojpledtoutu
hjptuls.tlossumsmajlarls.mjnmjils.twlaqtu,lojplyal.tl utytjsdklrahjp
.mwytdrldtojmjilsals.tlmw utyymajls.osls.tls.mjilwmi.sljasl.oqtlxttjlo
putow,lorstuloddclS.mylhjetusomjsklwhyslxtlybt slobokcl.tlbahdplyjose.lo
.huumtplxutonroyslojplialojplrmjpl.hencl.henlboylymssmjilajls.tlihjbodt
arlolrdosxaos,ldmysdtyydklpojidmjil.mylrttslmjls.tlbostulojpldaanmji
qtuklwtdoje.adkclSawleajedhptplsaldtsl.henldtoplh lsals.tlyhxvtesclMr
.tlpmpljaslpalms,ls.tjls.tlopqtjshutlbahdplxtl uaqtplsal.oqtlxttjlajdklo
putowc

“.tdda,l.hen!”

“.tdda,lkahuytdrc”

Ymdtjet,lraulolwmjhstc

“Saw,lmrlbt'pl'o'ldtrsls.tlxdowtlsaadylosls.tlptoplsutt,lbt'pl'o'lias
s.tlwajtkclA.,lomj'slmslobrhd!”

“'Somj'slolputow,ls.tj,l'somj'slolputow!lYawt.ablMlwayslbmy.lmslboyc
Pai'plmrlMlpaj's,l.henc”

“B.oslomj'slolputow?”

“A.,ls.osls.mjilktystupokclMlxttjl.odrls.mjnmjilmslboyc”

“Putow!lMrls.twlysomuyl.opj'slxuantlpabjlkah'pl'o'lyttjl.ablwhe.lputow
mslboy!lM'qtl.oplputowyltjahi.loddljmi.s--bms.ls.osl ose.-tktplY ojmy.
ptqmdliamjilraulwtloddls.uahi.l'tw--uasl.mw!”

“Ja,ljasluasl.mwcl_Rmjp_l.mw!lSuoenls.tlwajtk!”

“Saw,lbt'ddljtqtulrmjpl.mwclOlrtddtulpaj'sl.oqtlajdklajtle.ojetlraulyhe.
ol mdt--ojpls.oslajt'yldaysclM'plrttdlwmi.skly.onklmrlMlboylsalyttl.mw,
ojkbokc”

“Btdd,lya'plM;lxhslM'pldmntlsalyttl.mw,lojkbok--ojplsuoenl.mwlahs--sal.my
JhwxtulSbac”

“JhwxtulSba--kty,ls.os'ylmsclMlxttjls.mjnmjil'xahsls.osclXhslMleoj'slwont
jas.mjilahslarlmsclB.oslpalkahlutenajlmslmy?”

“MlpajaclMs'ylsaalptt clYok,l.hen--wokxtlms'yls.tljhwxtularlol.ahyt!”

“Iaapk!ccclJa,lSaw,ls.oslomj'slmsclMrlmslmy,lmslomj'slmjls.mylajt-.auyt
sabjclS.tklomj'sljaljhwxtuyl.tutc”

“Btdd,ls.os'ylyaclDtwwtls.mjnlolwmjhstcl.tut--ms'yls.tljhwxtularlo
uaaw--mjlolsoqtuj,lkahlnjab!”

“A.,ls.os'yls.tlsumen!lS.tklomj'slajdklsbalsoqtujyclBtleojlrmjplahs
ghmenc”

“Kahlysokl.tut,l.hen,lsmddlMleawtc”

Sawlboylarrloslajetcl.tlpmpljasleoutlsal.oqtl.hen'yleaw ojklmjl hxdme
 doetycl.tlboyliajtl.odrlojl.ahucl.tlrahjpls.oslmjls.tlxtyslsoqtuj,lJac
2l.opldajilxttjlaeeh mtplxklolkahjildobktu,lojplboylysmddlyalaeeh mtpc
Mjls.tldtyylaystjsosmahyl.ahyt,lJacl2lboylolwkystukclS.tlsoqtuj-ntt tu'y
kahjilyajlyomplmslboylnt sldaentploddls.tlsmwt,lojpl.tljtqtulyoblojkxapk
ialmjsalmslauleawtlahslarlmsltzet slosljmi.s;l.tlpmpljaslnjablojk
 ousmehdoulutoyajlrauls.mylysostlarls.mjiy;l.opl.oplyawtldmssdt
ehumaymsk,lxhslmslboyluos.tulrttxdt;l.oplwoptls.tlwayslarls.tlwkystuk
xkltjstusomjmjil.mwytdrlbms.ls.tlmptols.osls.osluaawlboyl“.o'jstp”;l.op
jasmetpls.osls.tutlboyloldmi.slmjls.tutls.tljmi.slxtrautc

“S.os'ylb.oslM'qtlrahjplahs,l.henclMlutenajls.os'yls.tlqtuklJacl2lbt'ut
orstuc”

“Mlutenajlmslmy,lSawclJablb.oslkahliamjilsalpa?”

“Dtwwtls.mjnc”

Sawls.ahi.sloldajilsmwtclS.tjl.tlyomp:

“M'ddlstddlkahclS.tlxoenlpaaularls.oslJacl2lmyls.tlpaauls.osleawtylahs
mjsals.osldmssdtledaytloddtklxtsbttjls.tlsoqtujlojpls.tladpluossdtlsuo 
arlolxumenlysautclJablkahlitsl.adplarloddls.tlpaauntkylkahleojlrmjp,lojp
M'ddljm loddlarlohjsmt'y,lojpls.tlrmuyslpounljmi.slbt'ddlials.tutlojp
sukl'twclOjplwmjplkah,lntt loldaanahslraulMjvhjlVat,lxteohytl.tlyompl.t
boyliamjilsalpua lmjsalsabjlojply klouahjplajetlwautlraulole.ojetlsalits
.mylutqtjitclMrlkahlyttl.mw,lkahlvhyslraddabl.mw;lojplmrl.tlpaj'slialsa
s.oslJacl2,ls.oslomj'sls.tl doetc”

“Daupk,lMlpaj'slbojslsalraddtul.mwlxklwkytdr!”

“B.k,lms'ddlxtljmi.s,lyhutcl.tlwmi.sj'sltqtulyttlkah--ojplmrl.tlpmp,
wokxtl.t'pljtqtuls.mjnlojks.mjic”

“Btdd,lmrlms'yl utssklpounlMlutenajlM'ddlsuoenl.mwclMlpaja--MlpajaclM'dd
sukc”

“KahlxtslM'ddlraddabl.mw,lmrlms'ylpoun,l.henclB.k,l.tlwmi.sl'o'lrahjp
ahsl.tleahdpj'slitsl.mylutqtjit,lojplxtliamjilumi.slorstuls.oslwajtkc”

“Ms'ylya,lSaw,lms'ylyaclM'ddlraddtul.mw;lMlbmdd,lxklvmjiaty!”

“Jablkah'utl_sodnmji_!lPaj'slkahltqtulbtontj,l.hen,lojplMlbaj'sc”




E.O STUlZZQMMM

S.OSljmi.slSawlojpl.henlbtutlutopklrauls.tmulopqtjshutclS.tkl.hjiloxahs
s.tljtmi.xau.aaplarls.tlsoqtujlhjsmdlorstuljmjt,lajtlbose.mjils.tloddtk
oslolpmysojetlojpls.tlas.tuls.tlsoqtujlpaauclJaxapkltjstutpls.tloddtklau
dtrslms;ljaxapklutytwxdmjils.tlY ojmoupltjstutplauldtrsls.tlsoqtuj
paauclS.tljmi.sl uawmytplsalxtlolromulajt;lyalSawlbtjsl.awtlbms.ls.t
hjptuysojpmjils.oslmrloleajymptuoxdtlptiuttlarlpounjtyyleowtlaj,l.hen
boylsaleawtlojpl“woab,”lb.tuth ajl.tlbahdplydm lahslojplsukls.tlntkyc
Xhsls.tljmi.slutwomjtpledtou,lojpl.henledaytpl.mylbose.lojplutsmutplsa
xtplmjlojltw sklyhioul.aiy.toploxahslsbtdqtc

Shtypokls.tlxakyl.opls.tlyowtlmddldhenclOdyalBtpjtypokclXhslS.huypok
jmi.sl uawmytplxtsstuclSawlydm  tplahslmjliaaplytoyajlbms.l.mylohjs'y
adplsmjldojstuj,lojploldouitlsabtdlsalxdmjpradplmslbms.cl.tl.mpls.t
dojstujlmjl.hen'ylyhioul.aiy.toplojpls.tlbose.lxtiojclOjl.ahulxtraut
wmpjmi.sls.tlsoqtujledaytplh lojplmsyldmi.syl(s.tlajdklajtyls.tutoxahsy)
btutl hslahsclJalY ojmoupl.oplxttjlyttjclJaxapkl.opltjstutplauldtrsls.t
oddtkclTqtuks.mjilboylohy memahyclS.tlxdoenjtyylarlpounjtyylutmijtp,
s.tl turteslysmddjtyylboylmjstuuh stplajdklxklaeeoymajodlwhsstumjiylar
pmysojsls.hjptuc

Sawliasl.myldojstuj,ldmslmslmjls.tl.aiy.top,lbuo  tplmsledaytdklmjls.t
sabtd,lojpls.tlsbalopqtjshutuyleut slmjls.tlidaawlsaboupls.tlsoqtujc
.henlysaaplytjsuklojplSawlrtdsl.mylboklmjsals.tloddtkclS.tjls.tutlboy
olytoyajlarlbomsmjilojzmtskls.oslbtmi.tplh ajl.hen'yly mumsyldmntlo
wahjsomjcl.tlxtiojlsalbmy.l.tleahdplyttlolrdoy.lruawls.tldojstuj--ms
bahdplrumi.stjl.mw,lxhslmslbahdplosldtoyslstddl.mwls.oslSawlboylodmqt
ktsclMslyttwtpl.ahuylymjetlSawl.oplpmyo  toutpclYhutdkl.tlwhysl.oqt
romjstp;lwokxtl.tlboylptop;lwokxtl.myl.tousl.oplxhuyslhjptulstuuaulojp
tzemstwtjsclMjl.mylhjtoymjtyyl.henlrahjpl.mwytdrlpuobmjiledaytu
ojpledaytulsals.tloddtk;lrtoumjiloddlyausylarlputoprhdls.mjiy,lojp
wawtjsoumdkltz tesmjilyawtleosoysua .tlsal.o  tjls.oslbahdplsontlobok
.mylxutos.clS.tutlboyljaslwhe.lsalsontlobok,lraul.tlyttwtplajdkloxdtlsa
mj.odtlmslxkls.mwxdtrhdy,lojpl.myl.touslbahdplyaajlbtoulmsytdrlahs,ls.t
boklmslboylxtosmjiclYhpptjdkls.tutlboylolrdoy.larldmi.slojplSawleowt
stoumjilxkl.mw:l“Uhj!”lyompl.t;l“uhj,lraulkahuldmrt!”

.tljttpj'sl.oqtlut tostplms;lajetlboyltjahi.;l.henlboylwonmjils.musklau
rausklwmdtylojl.ahulxtrautls.tlut tsmsmajlboylhsstutpclS.tlxakyljtqtu
ysa  tplsmddls.tklutoe.tpls.tly.tplarlolptytustplydohi.stu-.ahytlosls.t
dabtultjplarls.tlqmddoitclVhysloyls.tkliaslbms.mjlmsyly.tdstuls.tlysauw
xhuyslojpls.tluomjl ahutplpabjclOylyaajloylSawliasl.mylxutos.l.tlyomp:

“.hen,lmslboylobrhd!lMlsumtplsbalarls.tlntky,lvhysloylyarsloylMleahdp;
xhsls.tklyttwtplsalwontlyhe.lol abtularluoentsls.oslMleahdpj'sl.oupdk
itslwklxutos.lMlboylyalyeoutpclS.tklbahdpj'slshujlmjls.tldaen,ltms.tuc
Btdd,lbms.ahsljasmemjilb.oslMlboylpamji,lMlsaanl.adplarls.tlnjax,lojp
a tjleawtyls.tlpaau!lMslbouj'sldaentp!lMl.a  tplmj,lojply.aanlarrls.t
sabtd,lojp,l_IutoslEotyou'ylI.ays!_”

“B.os!--b.os'plkahlytt,lSaw?”

“.hen,lMlwayslyst  tplajsalMjvhjlVat'yl.ojp!”

“Ja!”

“Kty!l.tlboyldkmjils.tut,lyahjploydtt lajls.tlrdaau,lbms.l.myladpl ose.
ajl.myltktlojpl.mylouwyly utoplahsc”

“Daupk,lb.oslpmplkahlpa?lPmpl.tlbontlh ?”

“Ja,ljtqtulxhpitpclPuhjn,lMlutenajclMlvhysliuoxxtpls.oslsabtdlojp
ysoustp!”

“M'pljtqtul'o'ls.ahi.slarls.tlsabtd,lMlxts!”

“Btdd,lMlbahdpclWklohjslbahdplwontlwtlwmi.sklymenlmrlMldayslmsc”

“Yok,lSaw,lpmplkahlyttls.oslxaz?”

“.hen,lMlpmpj'slbomslsaldaanlouahjpclMlpmpj'slyttls.tlxaz,lMlpmpj'slytt
s.tleuayyclMlpmpj'slyttlojks.mjilxhslolxassdtlojplolsmjleh lajls.tlrdaau
xklMjvhjlVat;lkty,lMlyoblsbalxouutdylojpldasylwautlxassdtylmjls.tluaawc
Paj'slkahlytt,ljab,lb.os'yls.tlwosstulbms.ls.osl.o'jstpluaaw?”

“.ab?”

“B.k,lms'yl.o'jstplbms.lb.myntk!lWokxtl_odd_ls.tlStw tuojetlSoqtujyl.oqt
iaslol.o'jstpluaaw,l.tk,l.hen?”

“Btdd,lMlutenajlwokxtls.os'ylyaclB.a'pl'o'ls.ahi.slyhe.lols.mji?lXhs
yok,lSaw,ljab'ylolwmi.skliaaplsmwtlsalitsls.oslxaz,lmrlMjvhjlVat'y
puhjnc”

“Mslmy,ls.os!lKahlsuklms!”

.henly.hpptutpc

“Btdd,lja--Mlutenajljasc”

“OjplMlutenajljas,l.henclAjdklajtlxassdtlodajiymptlarlMjvhjlVatlomj's
tjahi.clMrls.tut'plxttjls.utt,l.t'plxtlpuhjnltjahi.lojplM'plpalmsc”

S.tutlboyloldajil ohytlraulutrdtesmaj,lojpls.tjlSawlyomp:

“Daank.tut,l.hen,ldtyyljaslsukls.osls.mjilojklwautlsmddlbtlnjablMjvhj
Vat'yljaslmjls.tutclMs'ylsaalyeoukclJab,lmrlbtlbose.ltqtukljmi.s,lbt'dd
xtlptoplyhutlsalyttl.mwlialahs,lyawtlsmwtlaulas.tu,lojpls.tjlbt'dd
yjose.ls.oslxazlghmentu'jldmi.sjmjic”

“Btdd,lM'wloiuttpclM'ddlbose.ls.tlb.adtljmi.sldaji,lojplM'ddlpalmsltqtuk
jmi.s,lsaa,lmrlkah'ddlpals.tlas.tul ouslarls.tlvaxc”

“Oddlumi.s,lMlbmddclOddlkahliaslsalpalmylsalsuaslh l.aa tulYsuttslo
xdaenlojplwoab--ojplmrlM'wloydtt ,lkahls.uablyawtliuoqtdlosls.tlbmjpab
ojpls.os'ddlrtse.lwtc”

“Oiuttp,lojpliaaploylb.tos!”

“Jab,l.hen,ls.tlysauw'ylaqtu,lojplM'ddlial.awtclMs'ddlxtimjlsalxt
pokdmi.slmjloleah dtlarl.ahuyclKahlialxoenlojplbose.ls.osldaji,lbmdd
kah?”

“MlyomplMlbahdp,lSaw,lojplMlbmddclM'ddl.o'jsls.oslsoqtujltqtukljmi.slrau
olktou!lM'ddlydtt loddlpoklojplM'ddlysojplbose.loddljmi.sc”

“S.os'yloddlumi.sclJab,lb.tutlkahliamjilsalydtt ?”

“MjlXtjlUaituy'l.okdarscl.tldtsylwt,lojplyalpatyl.myl o 'yljmiitulwoj,
HjedtlVontclMlsastlbostulraulHjedtlVontlb.tjtqtul.tlbojsylwtlsa,lojplojk
smwtlMloynl.mwl.tlimqtylwtloldmssdtlyawts.mjilsaltoslmrl.tleojly outlmsc
S.os'ylolwmi.skliaapljmiitu,lSawcl.tldmntylwt,lxtehflMlpaj'sltqtuloesloy
mrlMlboyloxaqtl.mwclYawtsmwtlM'qtlytslumi.slpabjlojpltosl_bms._l.mwclXhs
kahljttpj'slstddls.osclOlxapk'yliaslsalpals.mjiylb.tjl.t'ylobrhdl.hjiuk
.tlbahdpj'slbojslsalpaloylolystopkls.mjic”

“Btdd,lmrlMlpaj'slbojslkahlmjls.tlpoksmwt,lM'ddldtslkahlydtt clMlbaj's
eawtlxas.tumjilouahjpclOjklsmwtlkahlyttlyawts.mji'ylh ,lmjls.tljmi.s,
vhyslynm lumi.slouahjplojplwoabc”




E.O STUlZZMZ

S.Tlrmuysls.mjilSawl.touplajlRumpoklwaujmjilboylolidopl mtetlar
jtby--VhpitlS.ose.tu'ylrowmdkl.opleawtlxoenlsalsabjls.tljmi.slxtrautc
Xas.lMjvhjlVatlojpls.tlsutoyhutlyhjnlmjsalyteajpouklmw ausojetlraulo
wawtjs,lojplXtenklsaanls.tle.mtrl doetlmjls.tlxak'ylmjstutyscl.tlyobl.tu
ojpls.tkl.oplojltz.ohysmjiliaaplsmwtl dokmjil“.my k”lojpl“ihddk-ntt tu”
lbms.loleuabplarls.tmulye.aadwostyclS.tlpoklboyleaw dtstplojpleuabjtplmj
ol tehdmoudklyosmyroesauklbok:lXtenklstoytpl.tulwas.tulsalo  amjs
s.tljtzslpoklrauls.tldaji- uawmytplojpldaji-ptdoktpl mejme,lojply.t
eajytjstpclS.tle.mdp'ylptdmi.slboylxahjpdtyy;lojplSaw'yljaslwaut
waptuostclS.tlmjqmsosmajylbtutlytjslahslxtrautlyhjyts,lojplysuomi.sbok
s.tlkahjilradnylarls.tlqmddoitlbtutls.uabjlmjsalolrtqtularl ut ouosmaj
ojpl dtoyhuoxdtlojsmem osmajclSaw'yltzemstwtjsltjoxdtpl.mwlsalntt 
obontlhjsmdlol utsskldostl.ahu,lojpl.tl.opliaapl.a tylarl.toumjil.hen'y
“woab,”lojplarl.oqmjil.mylsutoyhutlsaloysajmy.lXtenklojpls.tl mejmentuy
bms.,ljtzslpok;lxhsl.tlboylpmyo  amjstpclJalymijodleowtls.osljmi.sc

Waujmjileowt,ltqtjshoddk,lojplxklstjlaultdtqtjla'edaenlolimppklojp
uaddmenmjileaw ojklbtutlios.tutploslVhpitlS.ose.tu'y,lojpltqtuks.mjilboy
utopklraulolysousclMslboyljasls.tlehysawlraultdptudkl ta dtlsalwouls.t
 mejmeylbms.ls.tmul utytjetclS.tle.mdputjlbtutleajymptutplyortltjahi.
hjptuls.tlbmjiylarlolrtblkahjildopmtylarltmi.sttjlojplolrtblkahji
itjsdtwtjlarlsbtjsk-s.uttlauls.tutoxahsyclS.tladplystowlrtuuk-xaoslboy
e.oustutplrauls.tlaeeoymaj;l utytjsdkls.tliokls.uajilrmdtplh ls.tlwomj
ysuttsldoptjlbms.l uaqmymaj-xoyntsyclYmplboylymenlojpl.oplsalwmyy
s.tlrhj;lWouklutwomjtplosl.awtlsaltjstusomjl.mwclS.tldoysls.mjilWuyc
S.ose.tulyomplsalXtenk,lboy:

“Kah'ddljaslitslxoenlsmddldostcl tu.o ylkah'plxtsstulysokloddljmi.slbms.
yawtlarls.tlimudyls.osldmqtljtouls.tlrtuuk-dojpmji,le.mdpc”

“S.tjlM'ddlysoklbms.lYhykl.ou tu,lwowwoc”

“QtuklbtddclOjplwmjplojplxt.oqtlkahuytdrlojplpaj'slxtlojklsuahxdtc”

 utytjsdk,loyls.tklsum  tplodaji,lSawlyomplsalXtenk:

“Yok--M'ddlstddlkahlb.oslbt'ddlpacl'YstoplarliamjilsalVatl.ou tu'ylbt'dd
edmwxlumi.slh ls.tl.mddlojplysa losls.tlBmpablPahidoy'clY.t'ddl.oqt
met-eutow!lY.tl.oylmslwaysltqtuklpok--ptopldaopylarlmsclOjply.t'ddlxt
obrhdlidoplsal.oqtlhyc”

“A.,ls.oslbmddlxtlrhj!”

S.tjlXtenklutrdtestplolwawtjslojplyomp:

“Xhslb.oslbmddlwowwolyok?”

“.ab'ddly.tltqtulnjab?”

S.tlimudlshujtpls.tlmptolaqtulmjl.tulwmjp,lojplyomplutdhesojsdk:

“Mlutenajlms'ylbuaji--xhs--”

“Xhsly.heny!lKahulwas.tulbaj'slnjab,lojplyalb.os'yls.tl.ouw?lOddly.t
bojsylmyls.oslkah'ddlxtlyort;lojplMlxtslkahly.t'pl'o'lyomplials.tutlmr
y.t'pl'o'ls.ahi.slarlmsclMlnjably.tlbahdp!”

S.tlBmpablPahidoy'ly dtjpmpl.ay msodmsklboylolstw smjilxomsclMslojp
Saw'yl tuyhoymajyl utytjsdkleouumtpls.tlpokclYalmslboylptemptplsalyok
jas.mjilsalojkxapkloxahsls.tljmi.s'yl uaiuowwtcl utytjsdklmslaeehuutplsa
Sawls.oslwokxtl.henlwmi.sleawtls.mylqtukljmi.slojplimqtls.tlymijodclS.t
s.ahi.slsaanlolptodlarls.tly mumslahslarl.mylojsmem osmajyclYsmddl.t
eahdpljaslxtoulsalimqtlh ls.tlrhjloslBmpablPahidoy'clOjplb.kly.ahdpl.t
imqtlmslh ,l.tlutoyajtp--s.tlymijodlpmpljasleawtls.tljmi.slxtraut,lya
b.kly.ahdplmslxtlojklwautldmntdklsaleawtlsajmi.s?lS.tlyhutlrhjlarls.t
tqtjmjilahsbtmi.tpls.tlhjetusomjlsutoyhut;lojp,lxak-dmnt,l.tlptstuwmjtp
salkmtdplsals.tlysuajitulmjedmjosmajlojpljasloddabl.mwytdrlsals.mjnlar
s.tlxazlarlwajtklojas.tulsmwtls.oslpokc

S.uttlwmdtylxtdablsabjls.tlrtuukxaoslysa  tplosls.tlwahs.larlolbaapk
.addablojplsmtplh clS.tleuabplybouwtploy.autlojplyaajls.tlrautys
pmysojetylojpleuoiikl.tmi.sylte.atplroulojpljtoulbms.ly.ahsmjiylojp
dohi.stuclOddls.tlpmrrtutjslbokylarlitssmjil.aslojplsmutplbtutliajt
s.uahi.lbms.,lojplxk-ojp-xkls.tluaqtuylysuoiidtplxoenlsaleow lrausmrmtp
bms.luty ajymxdtlo  tsmsty,lojpls.tjls.tlptysuhesmajlarls.tliaapls.mjiy
xtiojclOrstuls.tlrtoysls.tutlboylolutruty.mjilytoyajlarlutyslojple.oslmj
s.tly.optlarly utopmjilaonyclXk-ojp-xklyawtxapkly.ahstp:

“B.a'ylutopklrauls.tleoqt?”

TqtukxapklboyclXhjpdtylarleojpdtylbtutl uaehutp,lojplysuomi.sbokls.tut
boylolitjtuodlyeow tulh ls.tl.mddclS.tlwahs.larls.tleoqtlboylh ls.t
.mddympt--ojla tjmjily.o tpldmntloldtsstulOclMsylwoyymqtlaontjlpaaulysaap
hjxouutpclBms.mjlboylolywoddle.owxtu,le.mddkloylojlmet.ahyt,lojplboddtp
xklJoshutlbms.lyadmpldmwtysajtls.oslboylptbklbms.loleadplybtosclMslboy
uawojsmelojplwkystumahylsalysojpl.tutlmjls.tlptt lidaawlojpldaanlahs
h ajls.tliuttjlqoddtkly.mjmjilmjls.tlyhjclXhsls.tlmw utyymqtjtyylarls.t
ymshosmajlghmendklbautlarr,lojpls.tluaw mjilxtiojloiomjclS.tlwawtjs
oleojpdtlboyldmi.stpls.tutlboylolitjtuodluhy.lh ajls.tlabjtularlms;lo
ysuhiidtlojplolioddojslptrtjetlraddabtp,lxhsls.tleojpdtlboylyaajlnjaentp
pabjlaulxdabjlahs,lojpls.tjls.tutlboylolidopledowaularldohi.stulojplo
jtble.oytclXhsloddls.mjiyl.oqtlojltjpclXk-ojp-xkls.tl uaetyymajlbtjs
rmdmjilpabjls.tlystt lptyetjslarls.tlwomjloqtjht,ls.tlrdmentumjiluojnlar
dmi.sylpmwdklutqtodmjils.tldarsklboddylarluaenlodwayslsals.tmul amjslar
vhjesmajlymzsklrttslaqtu.topclS.mylwomjloqtjhtlboyljaslwautls.oj
tmi.slaulstjlrttslbmptclTqtuklrtblyst ylas.tuldarsklojplysmddljouuabtu
eutqmetylxuoje.tplruawlmslajltms.tul.ojp--raulWePahiod'yleoqtlboylxhslo
qoysldoxkumjs.larleuaantplomydtyls.osluojlmjsaltoe.las.tulojplahsloiomj
ojpldtpljab.tutclMslboylyompls.oslajtlwmi.slbojptulpokylojpljmi.sy
saits.tuls.uahi.lmsylmjsumeostlsojidtlarlumrsylojple.oywy,lojpljtqtu
rmjpls.tltjplarls.tleoqt;lojpls.osl.tlwmi.slialpabj,lojplpabj,lojp
ysmddlpabj,lmjsals.tltous.,lojplmslboylvhysls.tlyowt--doxkumjs.lhjptu
doxkumjs.,lojpljaltjplsalojklarls.twclJalwojl“njtb”ls.tleoqtclS.oslboy
ojlmw ayymxdtls.mjiclWayslarls.tlkahjilwtjlnjtblol ausmajlarlms,lojplms
boyljaslehysawouklsalqtjshutlwhe.lxtkajpls.mylnjabjl ausmajclSawlYobktu
njtbloylwhe.larls.tleoqtloylojklajtc

S.tl uaetyymajlwaqtplodajils.tlwomjloqtjhtlyawtls.utt-ghoustuylar
olwmdt,lojpls.tjliuah ylojpleah dtylxtiojlsalydm loymptlmjsalxuoje.
oqtjhty,lrdklodajils.tlpmywodleauumpauy,lojplsontltoe.las.tulxklyhu umyt
osl amjsylb.tutls.tleauumpauylvamjtploiomjcl ousmtylbtutloxdtlsaltdhpt
toe.las.tulrauls.tly oetlarl.odrlojl.ahulbms.ahsliamjilxtkajpls.t
“njabj”liuahjpc

Xk-ojp-xk,lajtliuah lorstulojas.tuleowtlysuoiidmjilxoenlsals.tlwahs.
arls.tleoqt,l ojsmji,l.mdoumahy,lywtoutplruawl.toplsalraaslbms.lsoddab
pum  mjiy,lpohxtplbms.ledok,lojpltjsmutdklptdmi.stplbms.ls.tlyheetyylar
s.tlpokclS.tjls.tklbtutloysajmy.tplsalrmjpls.osls.tkl.oplxttjlsonmji
jaljastlarlsmwtlojpls.osljmi.slboyloxahslosl.ojpclS.tledojimjilxtddl.op
xttjleoddmjilraul.odrlojl.ahucl.abtqtu,ls.mylyauslarledaytlsals.tlpok'y
opqtjshutylboyluawojsmelojpls.tutrautlyosmyroesaukclB.tjls.tlrtuukxaos
bms.l.tulbmdplrutmi.sl hy.tplmjsals.tlysutow,ljaxapkleoutplymz tjetlrau
s.tlboystplsmwtlxhsls.tleo somjlarls.tleuorsc

.henlboylodutopklh ajl.mylbose.lb.tjls.tlrtuukxaos'yldmi.sylbtjs
idmjsmjil oysls.tlb.ourcl.tl.toupljaljamytlajlxaoup,lrauls.tlkahji
 ta dtlbtutloylyhxphtplojplysmddloyl ta dtlhyhoddkloutlb.aloutljtoudk
smutplsalptos.cl.tlbajptutplb.oslxaoslmslboy,lojplb.kly.tlpmpljas
ysa losls.tlb.our--ojpls.tjl.tlpua  tpl.tulahslarl.mylwmjplojpl hsl.my
osstjsmajlh ajl.mylxhymjtyyclS.tljmi.slboyliuabmjiledahpklojplpounclStj
a'edaenleowt,lojpls.tljamytlarlqt.medtyletoytp,lyeosstutpldmi.sylxtioj
salbmjnlahs,loddlysuoiidmjilraas- oyytjituylpmyo  toutp,ls.tlqmddoit
xtsaanlmsytdrlsalmsylydhwxtuylojpldtrsls.tlywoddlbose.tulodajtlbms.ls.t
ymdtjetlojpls.tli.aysyclTdtqtjla'edaenleowt,lojpls.tlsoqtujldmi.sylbtut
 hslahs;lpounjtyyltqtukb.tut,ljabcl.henlbomstplb.oslyttwtplolbtoukldaji
smwt,lxhsljas.mjil.o  tjtpcl.mylroms.lboylbtontjmjiclBoyls.tutlojklhyt?
Boyls.tutlutoddklojklhyt?lB.kljaslimqtlmslh lojplshujlmj?

Oljamytlrtddlh ajl.myltoucl.tlboyloddlosstjsmajlmjlojlmjysojsclS.tloddtk
paauledaytplyarsdkcl.tly uojilsals.tleaujtularls.tlxumenlysautclS.tljtzs
wawtjslsbalwtjlxuhy.tplxkl.mw,lojplajtlyttwtplsal.oqtlyawts.mjilhjptu
.mylouwclMslwhyslxtls.oslxaz!lYals.tklbtutliamjilsalutwaqtls.tlsutoyhutc
B.kleoddlSawljab?lMslbahdplxtloxyhup--s.tlwtjlbahdplitsloboklbms.ls.tlxaz
ojpljtqtulxtlrahjploiomjclJa,l.tlbahdplysmenlsals.tmulbontlojplraddab
s.tw;l.tlbahdplsuhyslsals.tlpounjtyylraulytehumsklruawlpmyeaqtukclYa
eawwhjmjilbms.l.mwytdr,l.henlyst  tplahslojplidmptplodajilxt.mjpls.t
wtj,leos-dmnt,lbms.lxoutlrtts,loddabmjils.twlsalntt lvhyslroultjahi.
o.topljaslsalxtlmjqmymxdtc

S.tklwaqtplh ls.tlumqtulysuttsls.uttlxdaeny,ls.tjlshujtplsals.tldtrslh 
oleuayyysuttsclS.tklbtjslysuomi.slo.top,ls.tj,lhjsmdls.tkleowtlsals.t
 os.ls.osldtplh lEoupmrrl.mdd;ls.myls.tklsaanclS.tkl oyytplxkls.tladp
Btdy.woj'yl.ahyt,l.odrboklh ls.tl.mdd,lbms.ahsl.tymsosmji,lojplysmdd
edmwxtplh boupclIaap,ls.ahi.sl.hen,ls.tklbmddlxhuklmslmjls.tladplghouukc
Xhsls.tkljtqtulysa  tplosls.tlghouukclS.tkl oyytplaj,lh ls.tlyhwwmsc
S.tkl dhjitplmjsals.tljouuabl os.lxtsbttjls.tlsoddlyhwoe.lxhy.ty,lojp
btutloslajetl.mpptjlmjls.tlidaawcl.henledaytplh lojply.austjtpl.my
pmysojet,ljab,lrauls.tklbahdpljtqtulxtloxdtlsalyttl.mwcl.tlsuasstplodaji
ob.mdt;ls.tjlydoentjtpl.myl oet,lrtoumjil.tlboyliomjmjilsaalroys;lwaqtp
ajlol mtet,ls.tjlysa  tplodsaits.tu;ldmystjtp;ljalyahjp;ljajt,lyoqtls.os
.tlyttwtplsal.touls.tlxtosmjilarl.mylabjl.tousclS.tl.aasmjilarloj
abdleowtlaqtuls.tl.mdd--awmjahylyahjp!lXhsljalraasyst ycl.toqtjy,lboy
tqtuks.mjildays!l.tlboyloxahslsaly umjilbms.lbmjitplrtts,lb.tjlolwoj
edtoutpl.myls.uaosljaslrahulrttslruawl.mw!l.hen'yl.tously.aslmjsal.my
s.uaos,lxhsl.tlyboddabtplmsloiomj;lojpls.tjl.tlysaapls.tutly.onmjiloy
mrlolpaftjloihtyl.oplsontjle.ouitlarl.mwloslajet,lojplyalbtonls.osl.t
s.ahi.sl.tlwhyslyhutdklroddlsals.tliuahjpcl.tlnjtblb.tutl.tlboycl.t
njtbl.tlboylbms.mjlrmqtlyst ylarls.tlysmdtldtopmjilmjsalBmpablPahidoy'
iuahjpyclQtuklbtdd,l.tls.ahi.s,ldtsls.twlxhuklmsls.tut;lmslbaj'slxtl.oup
salrmjpc

Jabls.tutlboylolqamet--olqtukldablqamet--MjvhjlVat'y:

“Powjl.tu,lwokxtly.t'yliasleaw ojk--s.tut'yldmi.sy,ldostloylmslmyc”

“Mleoj'slyttlojkc”

S.mylboyls.oslysuojitu'ylqamet--s.tlysuojitularls.tl.ohjstpl.ahytclO
ptopdkle.mddlbtjslsal.hen'yl.tous--s.my,ls.tj,lboyls.tl“utqtjit”lvax!l.my
s.ahi.slboy,lsalrdkclS.tjl.tlutwtwxtutpls.osls.tlBmpablPahidoyl.oplxttj
nmjplsal.mwlwautls.ojlajet,lojplwokxtls.tytlwtjlbtutliamjilsalwhuptu
.tucl.tlbmy.tpl.tlpoutplqtjshutlsalboujl.tu;lxhsl.tlnjtbl.tlpmpj's
pout--s.tklwmi.sleawtlojpleose.l.mwcl.tls.ahi.sloddls.mylojplwautlmj
s.tlwawtjsls.osltdo ytplxtsbttjls.tlysuojitu'ylutwounlojplMjvhjlVat'y
jtzs--b.me.lboy--

“Xteohytls.tlxhy.lmylmjlkahulbokclJab--s.mylbok--jablkahlytt,lpaj'slkah?”

“KtyclBtdd,ls.tutl_my_leaw ojkls.tut,lMlutenajclXtsstulimqtlmslh c”

“Imqtlmslh ,lojplMlvhysldtoqmjils.myleahjsuklrautqtu!lImqtlmslh lojp
wokxtljtqtul.oqtlojas.tule.ojetclMlstddlkahloiomj,loylM'qtlsadplkah
xtraut,lMlpaj'sleoutlraul.tulyboi--kahlwokl.oqtlmsclXhsl.tul.hyxojplboy
uahi.lajlwt--wojklsmwtyl.tlboyluahi.lajlwt--ojplwomjdkl.tlboyls.tlvhysmet
arls.tl toetls.oslvhiitplwtlraulolqoiuojsclOjpls.oslomj'sloddclMslomj's
olwmddmajs.l ouslarlms!l.tl.oplwtl_.auytb.m  tp_!--.auytb.m  tplmj
ruajslarls.tlvomd,ldmntloljmiitu!--bms.loddls.tlsabjldaanmjilaj!
_.auytb.m  tp_!--palkahlhjptuysojp?l.tlsaanlopqojsoitlarlwtlojplpmtpclXhs
M'ddlsontlmslahslarl_.tu_c”

“A.,lpaj'slnmddl.tu!lPaj'slpals.os!”

“Nmdd?lB.alyomplojks.mjiloxahslnmddmji?lMlbahdplnmddl_.mw_lmrl.tlboy
.tut;lxhsljasl.tuclB.tjlkahlbojslsalitslutqtjitlajlolbawojlkahlpaj's
nmddl.tu--xay.!lkahlialraul.tuldaanyclKahlydmsl.tuljaysumdy--kahljase.l.tu
touyldmntlolyab!”

“XklIap,ls.os'y--”

“Ntt lkahula mjmajlsalkahuytdr!lMslbmddlxtlyortyslraulkahclM'ddlsmtl.tu
sals.tlxtpclMrly.tlxdttpylsalptos.,lmyls.oslwklrohds?lM'ddljasleuk,lmr
y.tlpatyclWklrumtjp,lkah'ddl.td lwtlmjls.myls.mji--raul_wk_lyont--s.os'y
b.klkah'utl.tut--Mlwmi.sj'slxtloxdtlodajtclMrlkahlrdmje.,lM'ddlnmddlkahc
Palkahlhjptuysojpls.os?lOjplmrlMl.oqtlsalnmddlkah,lM'ddlnmddl.tu--ojp
s.tjlMlutenajljaxapk'ddltqtulnjablwhe.loxahslb.alpajtls.mylxhymjtyyc”

“Btdd,lmrlms'yliaslsalxtlpajt,ldts'ylitsloslmsclS.tlghmentuls.t
xtsstu--M'wloddlmjloly.mqtuc”

“Palmsl_jab_?lOjpleaw ojkls.tut?lDaanl.tut--M'ddlitslyhy memahylarlkah,
rmuysls.mjilkahlnjabclJa--bt'ddlbomslsmddls.tldmi.syloutlahs--s.tut'ylja
.huukc”

.henlrtdsls.oslolymdtjetlboyliamjilsaltjyht--ols.mjilysmddlwautlobrhd
s.ojlojklowahjslarlwhuptuahylsodn;lyal.tl.tdpl.mylxutos.lojplyst  tp
imjitudklxoen;l dojstpl.mylraasleoutrhddklojplrmuwdk,lorstulxodojemji,
ajt-dtiitp,lmjlol uteoumahylboklojplodwayslsa  dmjilaqtu,lrmuyslajlajt
ymptlojpls.tjlajls.tlas.tucl.tlsaanlojas.tulyst lxoen,lbms.ls.tlyowt
tdoxauosmajlojpls.tlyowtlumyny;ls.tjlojas.tulojplojas.tu,lojp--olsbmi
yjo  tplhjptul.mylraas!l.mylxutos.lysa  tplojpl.tldmystjtpclS.tutlboylja
yahjp--s.tlysmddjtyylboyl turtescl.myliuosmshptlboylwtoyhutdtyyclJabl.t
shujtplmjl.mylsuoeny,lxtsbttjls.tlboddylarlyhwoe.lxhy.ty--shujtp
.mwytdrloyleoutrhddkloylmrl.tlbtutloly.m --ojpls.tjlyst  tplghmendklxhs
eohsmahydklodajiclB.tjl.tltwtuitplosls.tlghouukl.tlrtdslytehut,lojp
yal.tl mentplh l.myljmwxdtl.ttdylojplrdtbclPabj,lpabjl.tly tp,lsmddl.t
utoe.tpls.tlBtdy.woj'ycl.tlxojitplosls.tlpaau,lojpl utytjsdkls.tl.topy
arls.tladplwojlojpl.mylsbalysodbouslyajylbtutls.uhyslruawlbmjpabyc

“B.os'yls.tluabls.tut?lB.a'ylxojimji?lB.oslpalkahlbojs?”

“Dtslwtlmj--ghmen!lM'ddlstddltqtuks.mjic”

“B.k,lb.aloutlkah?”

“.hendtxtuuklRmjj--ghmen,ldtslwtlmj!”

“.hendtxtuuklRmjj,lmjpttp!lMslomj'sloljowtlsala tjlwojklpaauy,lMlvhpit!
Xhsldtsl.mwlmj,ldopy,lojpldts'ylyttlb.os'yls.tlsuahxdtc”

“ dtoytlpaj'sltqtulstddlMlsadplkah,”lbtutl.hen'ylrmuyslbaupylb.tjl.tlias
mjcl“ dtoytlpaj's--M'plxtlnmddtp,lyhut--xhsls.tlbmpab'ylxttjliaaplrumtjpy
salwtlyawtsmwty,lojplMlbojslsalstdd--Ml_bmdd_lstddlmrlkah'ddl uawmytlkah
baj'sltqtulyoklmslboylwtc”

“XklItauit,l.tl_.oy_liaslyawts.mjilsalstdd,laul.tlbahdpj'sloeslya!”
ltzedomwtpls.tladplwoj;l“ahslbms.lmslojpljaxapkl.tut'ddltqtulstdd,ldopc”

S.uttlwmjhstyldostuls.tladplwojlojpl.mylyajy,lbtddlouwtp,lbtutlh ls.t
.mdd,lojplvhysltjstumjils.tlyhwoe.l os.lajlsm sat,ls.tmulbto ajylmj
s.tmul.ojpycl.henloeeaw ojmtpls.twljalrhus.tucl.tl.mplxt.mjploliutos
xabdptulojplrtddlsaldmystjmjiclS.tutlboyloldoiimji,lojzmahylymdtjet,lojp
s.tjloddlarlolyhpptjls.tutlboylojltz daymajlarlrmutouwylojploleukc

.henlbomstplrauljal ousmehdouycl.tly uojiloboklojply tplpabjls.tl.mddloy
roysloyl.myldtiyleahdpleouukl.mwc




E.O STUlZZZ

OYls.tltoudmtyslyhy memajlarlpobjlo  toutplajlYhjpoklwaujmji,l.henleowt
iua mjilh ls.tl.mddlojpluo  tplitjsdklosls.tladplBtdy.woj'ylpaauclS.t
mjwostylbtutloydtt ,lxhslmslboylolydtt ls.oslboylytslajlol.omu-sumiitu,
ajloeeahjslarls.tltzemsmjilt myaptlarls.tljmi.sclOleoddleowtlruawlo
bmjpab:

“B.a'yls.tut!”

.hen'ylyeoutplqametlojybtutplmjloldablsajt:

“ dtoytldtslwtlmj!lMs'ylajdkl.henlRmjj!”

“Ms'yloljowtls.osleojla tjls.mylpaauljmi.slaulpok,ldop!--ojplbtdeawt!”

S.tytlbtutlysuojitlbaupylsals.tlqoioxajplxak'yltouy,lojpls.tl dtoyojstys
.tl.opltqtul.toupcl.tleahdpljasluteaddtesls.osls.tledaymjilbaupl.opltqtu
xttjlo  dmtplmjl.myleoytlxtrautclS.tlpaaulboylghmendklhjdaentp,lojpl.t
tjstutpcl.henlboylimqtjlolytoslojpls.tladplwojlojpl.mylxuoetlarlsodd
yajyly ttpmdklputyytpls.twytdqtyc

“Jab,lwklxak,lMl.a tlkah'utliaaplojpl.hjiuk,lxteohytlxutonroyslbmddlxt
utopkloylyaajloyls.tlyhj'ylh ,lojplbt'ddl.oqtlol m mjil.aslajt,lsaa--wont
kahuytdrltoykloxahsls.os!lMlojpls.tlxakyl.a tplkah'plshujlh lojplysa 
.tutldoysljmi.sc”

“Mlboylobrhdlyeoutp,”lyompl.hen,l“ojplMluhjclMlsaanlahslb.tjls.tl mysady
btjslarr,lojplMlpmpj'slysa lrauls.uttlwmdtclM'qtleawtljablxtehflMlbojstp
salnjabloxahslms,lkahlnjab;lojplMleawtlxtrautlpokdmi.slxtehflMlpmpj's
bojslsaluhjloeuayyls.twlptqmdy,ltqtjlmrls.tklboylptopc”

“Btdd,l aaule.o ,lkahlpaldaanloylmrlkah'pl.oplol.oupljmi.slarlms--xhs
s.tut'ylolxtpl.tutlraulkahlb.tjlkah'qtl.oplkahulxutonroysclJa,ls.tk
omj'slptop,ldop--btloutlyauukltjahi.lrauls.osclKahlyttlbtlnjtblumi.s
b.tutlsal hslahul.ojpylajls.tw,lxklkahulptyeum smaj;lyalbtleut slodaji
ajlsm satlsmddlbtliaslbms.mjlrmrsttjlrttslarls.tw--pounloyloletddouls.os
yhwoe.l os.lboy--ojplvhysls.tjlMlrahjplMlboyliamjilsalyjttftclMslboyls.t
wtojtyslnmjplarldhen!lMlsumtplsalntt lmslxoen,lxhsljalhyt--'sboylxahjplsa
eawt,lojplmslpmpleawt!lMlboylmjls.tldtoplbms.lwkl mysadluomytp,lojplb.tj
s.tlyjttftlysoustpls.aytlyeahjputdylo-uhysdmjilsalitslahslarls.tl os.,
Mlyhjilahs,l'Rmutlxaky!'lojplxdoftploboklosls.tl doetlb.tutls.tluhysdmji
boyclYalpmpls.tlxakyclXhsls.tklbtutlarrlmjlolvmrrk,ls.aytlqmddomjy,lojp
btlorstuls.tw,lpabjls.uahi.ls.tlbaapyclMlvhpitlbtljtqtulsahe.tpls.twc
S.tklrmutploly.aslo mtetloyls.tklysoustp,lxhsls.tmulxhddtsylb.mfftplxk
ojplpmpj'slpalhylojkl.ouwclOylyaajloylbtldaysls.tlyahjplarls.tmulrtts
btlghmsle.oymji,lojplbtjslpabjlojplysmuutplh ls.tleajysoxdtyclS.tkliaslo
 ayytlsaits.tu,lojplbtjslarrlsalihoupls.tlumqtulxojn,lojploylyaajloylms
myldmi.sls.tly.tumrrlojploliojiloutliamjilsalxtoslh ls.tlbaapyclWklxaky
bmddlxtlbms.ls.twl utytjsdkclMlbmy.lbtl.oplyawtlyauslarlptyeum smajlar
s.aytluoyeody--'sbahdpl.td loliaaplptodclXhslkahleahdpj'slyttlb.osls.tk
btutldmnt,lmjls.tlpoun,ldop,lMlyh  ayt?”

“A.lkty;lMlyobls.twlpabjsabjlojplraddtutpls.twc”

“Y dtjpmp!lPtyeumxtls.tw--ptyeumxtls.tw,lwklxak!”

“Ajt'yls.tladplptorlojplphwxlY ojmoupls.os'ylxtjlouahjpl.tutlajetlau
sbmet,lojpls'as.tu'ylolwtoj-daanmji,luoiitp--”

“S.os'yltjahi.,ldop,lbtlnjabls.tlwtj!l.o  tjtplajls.twlmjls.tlbaapylxoen
arls.tlbmpab'ylajtlpok,lojpls.tklydhjnlobokclArrlbms.lkah,lxaky,lojp
stddls.tly.tumrr--itslkahulxutonroyslsawauuablwaujmji!”

S.tlBtdy.woj'ylyajylpt oustploslajetclOyls.tklbtutldtoqmjils.tluaawl.hen
y uojilh lojpltzedomwtp:

“A.,l dtoytlpaj'slstddl_ojk_xapklmslboylwtls.oslxdabtplajls.tw!lA.,
 dtoyt!”

“Oddlumi.slmrlkahlyoklms,l.hen,lxhslkahlahi.slsal.oqtls.tleutpmslarlb.os
kahlpmpc”

“A.lja,lja!l dtoytlpaj'slstdd!”

B.tjls.tlkahjilwtjlbtutliajt,ls.tladplBtdy.wojlyomp:

“S.tklbaj'slstdd--ojplMlbaj'sclXhslb.klpaj'slkahlbojslmslnjabj?”

.henlbahdpljasltz domj,lrhus.tuls.ojlsalyokls.osl.tlodutopklnjtblsaa
whe.loxahslajtlarls.aytlwtjlojplbahdpljasl.oqtls.tlwojlnjabls.osl.tlnjtb
ojks.mjiloiomjysl.mwlrauls.tlb.adtlbaudp--.tlbahdplxtlnmddtplraulnjabmji
ms,lyhutc

S.tladplwojl uawmytplyteuteklajetlwaut,lojplyomp:

“.ablpmplkahleawtlsalraddabls.tytlrtddaby,ldop?lBtutls.tkldaanmji
yhy memahy?”

.henlboylymdtjslb.mdtl.tlruowtplolphdkleohsmahylut dkclS.tjl.tlyomp:

“Btdd,lkahlytt,lM'wlolnmjplarlol.oupldas,--dtoysltqtukxapklyokylya,lojp
Mlpaj'slyttljas.mjiloimjlms--ojplyawtsmwtylMleoj'slydtt lwhe.,lajloeeahjs
arls.mjnmjiloxahslmslojplyauslarlsukmjilsalysumntlahsloljtblboklar
pamjiclS.oslboyls.tlboklarlmsldoysljmi.sclMleahdpj'slydtt ,lojplyalM
eawtlodajilh ysuttsl'xahslwmpjmi.s,lo-shujmjilmsloddlaqtu,lojplb.tjlM
iaslsals.osladply.oendklxumenlysautlxkls.tlStw tuojetlSoqtuj,lMlxoentp
h loimjls.tlboddlsal.oqtlojas.tuls.mjnclBtdd,lvhysls.tjlodajileawty
s.tytlsbale.o ylydm  mjilodajiledaytlxklwt,lbms.lyawts.mjilhjptuls.tmu
ouw,lojplMlutenajtpls.tk'plysadtlmsclAjtlboylo-ywanmji,lojpls'as.tulajt
bojstploldmi.s;lyals.tklysa  tplumi.slxtrautlwtlojpls.tlemiouyldmslh 
s.tmulroetylojplMlyttls.osls.tlxmilajtlboyls.tlptorlojplphwxlY ojmoup,
xkl.mylb.mstlb.myntuylojpls.tl ose.lajl.myltkt,lojpls'as.tulajtlboylo
uhysk,luoiitp-daanmjilptqmdc”

“Eahdplkahlyttls.tluoiylxkls.tldmi.slarls.tlemiouy?”

S.mylysoiitutpl.henlraulolwawtjsclS.tjl.tlyomp:

“Btdd,lMlpaj'slnjab--xhslyawt.ablmslyttwyloylmrlMlpmpc”

“S.tjls.tklbtjslaj,lojplkah--”

“Raddtutpl'tw--ktyclS.oslboylmsclMlbojstplsalyttlb.oslboylh --s.tklyjtontp
odajilyaclMlpaiitpl'twlsals.tlbmpptu'ylysmdt,lojplysaaplmjls.tlpounlojp
.toupls.tluoiitplajtlxtilrauls.tlbmpptu,lojpls.tlY ojmouplybtoul.t'p
y mdtl.tuldaanylvhysloylMlsadplkahlojplkahulsba--”

“B.os!lS.tl_ptorlojplphwx_lwojlyomploddls.os!”

.henl.oplwoptlojas.tulstuumxdtlwmysont!l.tlboylsukmjil.mylxtyslsalntt 
s.tladplwojlruawlitssmjils.tlromjstysl.mjslarlb.als.tlY ojmouplwmi.slxt,
ojplktsl.mylsajihtlyttwtplptstuwmjtplsalitsl.mwlmjsalsuahxdtlmjly mstlar
oddl.tleahdplpacl.tlwoptlytqtuodltrrausylsaleutt lahslarl.mylyeuo t,
xhsls.tladplwoj'yltktlboylh ajl.mwlojpl.tlwoptlxdhjptulorstulxdhjptuc
 utytjsdkls.tlBtdy.wojlyomp:

“Wklxak,lpaj'slxtloruomplarlwtclMlbahdpj'sl.huslol.omularlkahul.toplrau
oddls.tlbaudpclJa--M'pl uasteslkah--M'pl uasteslkahclS.mylY ojmouplmy
jaslptorlojplphwx;lkah'qtldtsls.oslydm lbms.ahslmjstjpmjilms;lkahleoj's
eaqtuls.oslh ljabclKahlnjablyawts.mjiloxahsls.oslY ojmoupls.oslkahlbojs
salntt lpounclJablsuhyslwt--stddlwtlb.oslmslmy,lojplsuhyslwt--Mlbaj's
xtsuoklkahc”

.henldaantplmjsals.tladplwoj'yl.ajtysltktylolwawtjs,ls.tjlxtjslaqtulojp
b.my tutplmjl.myltou:

“'Somj'slolY ojmoup--ms'ylMjvhjlVat!”

S.tlBtdy.wojlodwayslvhw tplahslarl.myle.omuclMjlolwawtjsl.tlyomp:

“Ms'yloddl domjltjahi.,ljabclB.tjlkahlsodntploxahsljase.mjiltouylojp
ydmssmjiljaytylMlvhpitpls.osls.oslboylkahulabjltwxtddmy.wtjs,lxteohyt
b.mstlwtjlpaj'slsontls.oslyauslarlutqtjitclXhslojlMjvhj!lS.os'ylo
pmrrtutjslwosstulodsaits.tuc”

Phumjilxutonroysls.tlsodnlbtjslaj,lojplmjls.tleahuytlarlmsls.tladplwoj
yompls.osls.tldoysls.mjilb.me.l.tlojpl.mylyajyl.oplpajt,lxtrautliamji
salxtp,lboylsalitsloldojstujlojpltzowmjtls.tlysmdtlojplmsylqmemjmsklrau
wounylarlxdaapclS.tklrahjpljajt,lxhsleo shutplolxhdnklxhjpdtlar--

“Arl_b.os_?”

Mrls.tlbaupyl.oplxttjldmi.sjmjils.tkleahdpljasl.oqtldto tplbms.lolwaut
yshjjmjilyhpptjjtyylruawl.hen'ylxdoje.tpldm ycl.myltktylbtutlysoumji
bmpt,ljab,lojpl.mylxutos.lyhy tjptp--bomsmjilrauls.tlojybtuclS.tlBtdy.woj
ysoustp--ysoutplmjlutshuj--s.uttlyteajpy--rmqtlyteajpy--stj--s.tjlut dmtp:

“Arlxhuidou'ylsaadyclB.k,lb.os'yls.tl_wosstu_lbms.lkah?”

.henlyojnlxoen,l ojsmjilitjsdk,lxhslptt dk,lhjhsstuoxdkliuostrhdclS.t
Btdy.wojltktpl.mwliuoqtdk,lehumahydk--ojpl utytjsdklyomp:

“Kty,lxhuidou'ylsaadyclS.oslo  touylsalutdmtqtlkahloliaaplptodclXhslb.os
pmplimqtlkahls.oslshuj?lB.oslbtutl_kah_ltz tesmjilbt'plrahjp?”

.henlboylmjloledaytl doet--s.tlmjghmumjiltktlboylh ajl.mw--.tlbahdpl.oqt
imqtjlojks.mjilraulwostumodlraulol dohymxdtlojybtu--jas.mjilyhiitystp
msytdr--s.tlmjghmumjiltktlboylxaumjilptt tulojplptt tu--olytjytdtyy
ut dklarrtutp--s.tutlboyljalsmwtlsalbtmi.lms,lyaloslolqtjshutl.tlhsstutp
ms--rttxdk:

“Yhjpok-ye.aadlxaany,lwokxtc”

 aaul.henlboylsaalpmysutyytplsalywmdt,lxhsls.tladplwojldohi.tpldahplojp
vakahydk,ly.aanlh ls.tlptsomdylarl.mylojosawklruawl.toplsalraas,lojp
tjptplxklyokmjils.oslyhe.loldohi.lboylwajtklmjlo-woj'yl aents,lxteohyt
mslehslpabjls.tlpaesau'ylxmddldmntltqtuks.mjiclS.tjl.tlopptp:

“ aauladple.o ,lkah'utlb.mstlojplvoptp--kahlomj'slbtddlolxms--jalbajptu
kah'utloldmssdtlrdmi.sklojplarrlkahulxodojetclXhslkah'ddleawtlahslarlmsc
Utyslojplydtt lbmddlrtse.lkahlahsloddlumi.s,lMl.a tc”

.henlboylmuumsostplsals.mjnl.tl.oplxttjlyhe.loliaaytlojplxtsuoktplyhe.
olyhy memahyltzemstwtjs,lraul.tl.oplpua  tpls.tlmptols.osls.tl ouetd
xuahi.slruawls.tlsoqtujlboyls.tlsutoyhut,loylyaajloyl.tl.opl.toupls.t
sodnlosls.tlbmpab'ylysmdtcl.tl.oplajdkls.ahi.slmslboyljasls.tlsutoyhut,
.abtqtu--.tl.opljaslnjabjls.oslmslboyj's--ojplyals.tlyhiitysmajlarlo
eo shutplxhjpdtlboylsaalwhe.lraul.mylytdr- ayytyymajclXhslajls.tlb.adt
.tlrtdslidopls.tldmssdtlt myaptl.opl.o  tjtp,lrauljabl.tlnjtblxtkajplodd
ghtysmajls.osls.oslxhjpdtlboyljasl_s.t_lxhjpdt,lojplyal.mylwmjplboy
oslutyslojpltzettpmjidkleawrausoxdtclMjlroes,ltqtuks.mjilyttwtplsalxt
pumrsmjilvhyslmjls.tlumi.slpmutesmaj,ljab;ls.tlsutoyhutlwhyslxtlysmdd
mjlJacl2,ls.tlwtjlbahdplxtleo shutplojplvomdtpls.oslpok,lojpl.tlojp
Sawleahdplytmftls.tliadpls.osljmi.slbms.ahslojklsuahxdtlaulojklrtoular
mjstuuh smajc

Vhysloylxutonroyslboyleaw dtstpls.tutlboylolnjaenlosls.tlpaaucl.hen
vhw tplraulol.mpmji- doet,lraul.tl.opljalwmjplsalxtleajjtestpltqtj
utwastdklbms.ls.tldostltqtjsclS.tlBtdy.wojlopwmsstplytqtuodldopmtylojp
itjsdtwtj,lowajils.twls.tlBmpablPahidoy,lojpljasmetpls.osliuah ylar
emsmftjylbtutledmwxmjilh ls.tl.mdd--salysoutlosls.tlysmdtclYals.tljtby
.oply utopclS.tlBtdy.wojl.oplsalstddls.tlysauklarls.tljmi.slsals.t
qmymsauyclS.tlbmpab'yliuosmshptlraul.tul utytuqosmajlboylahsy antjc

“Paj'slyoklolbauploxahslms,lwopowclS.tut'ylojas.tuls.oslkah'utlwaut
xt.adptjlsals.ojlkahloutlsalwtlojplwklxaky,lwokxt,lxhsl.tlpaj'sloddablwt
salstddl.myljowtclBtlbahdpj'sl.oqtlxttjls.tutlxhslraul.mwc”

Arleahuytls.myltzemstplolehumaymsklyalqoysls.oslmslodwayslxtdmssdtpls.t
womjlwosstu--xhsls.tlBtdy.wojloddabtplmslsaltoslmjsals.tlqmsodylarl.my
qmymsauy,lojpls.uahi.ls.twlxtlsuojywmsstplsals.tlb.adtlsabj,lraul.t
utrhytplsal ouslbms.l.mylyteutsclB.tjloddltdytl.oplxttjldtoujtp,ls.t
bmpablyomp:

“Mlbtjslsalydtt lutopmjilmjlxtplojplydt slysuomi.sls.uahi.loddls.os
jamytclB.klpmpj'slkahleawtlojplbontlwt?”

“Btlvhpitplmslbouj'slbaus.lb.mdtclS.aytlrtddabylbouj'sldmntdklsaleawt
oiomj--s.tkl.opj'slojklsaadyldtrslsalbaunlbms.,lojplb.oslboyls.tlhytlar
bonmjilkahlh lojplyeoumjilkahlsalptos.?lWkls.uttljtiualwtjlysaaplihoup
oslkahul.ahytloddls.tlutyslarls.tljmi.sclS.tk'qtlvhysleawtlxoenc”

Wautlqmymsauyleowt,lojpls.tlysaukl.oplsalxtlsadplojplutsadplrauloleah dt
arl.ahuylwautc

S.tutlboyljalYoxxos.-ye.aadlphumjilpok-ye.aadlqoeosmaj,lxhsltqtukxapk
boyltoudklosle.hue.clS.tlysmuumjiltqtjslboylbtddleojqoyytpclJtbyleowt
s.osljaslolymijlarls.tlsbalqmddomjyl.oplxttjlktslpmyeaqtutpclB.tjls.t
ytuwajlboylrmjmy.tp,lVhpitlS.ose.tu'ylbmrtlpua  tplodajiymptlarlWuyc
.ou tuloyly.tlwaqtplpabjls.tlomydtlbms.ls.tleuabplojplyomp:

“MylwklXtenkliamjilsalydtt loddlpok?lMlvhysltz testply.tlbahdplxtlsmutp
salptos.c”

“KahulXtenk?”

“Kty,”lbms.lolysousdtpldaan--“pmpj'sly.tlysoklbms.lkahldoysljmi.s?”

“B.k,ljac”

WuyclS.ose.tulshujtpl odt,lojplyojnlmjsalol tb,lvhysloylOhjsl addk,
sodnmjilxumyndklbms.lolrumtjp,l oyytplxkclOhjsl addklyomp:

“Iaapwaujmji,lWuyclS.ose.tuclIaapwaujmji,lWuycl.ou tuclM'qtliaslolxak
s.os'ylshujtplh lwmyymjiclMlutenajlwklSawlysoktploslkahul.ahytldoys
jmi.s--ajtlarlkahclOjpljabl.t'yloruomplsaleawtlsale.hue.clM'qtliaslsa
ytssdtlbms.l.mwc”

WuyclS.ose.tuly.aanl.tul.toplrttxdklojplshujtpl odtuls.ojltqtuc

“.tlpmpj'slysoklbms.lhy,”lyomplWuycl.ou tu,lxtimjjmjilsaldaanlhjtoykclO
wountplojzmtskleowtlmjsalOhjsl addk'ylroetc

“Vatl.ou tu,l.oqtlkahlyttjlwklSawls.mylwaujmji?”

“Ja'wc”

“B.tjlpmplkahlyttl.mwldoys?”

Vatlsumtplsalutwtwxtu,lxhslboyljaslyhutl.tleahdplyokclS.tl ta dtl.op
ysa  tplwaqmjilahslarle.hue.clB.my tuyl oyytplodaji,lojplolxapmji
hjtoymjtyylsaanl ayytyymajlarltqtukleahjstjojetclE.mdputjlbtutlojzmahydk
ghtysmajtp,lojplkahjilstoe.tuyclS.tkloddlyompls.tkl.opljasljasmetp
b.ts.tulSawlojplXtenklbtutlajlxaoupls.tlrtuukxaoslajls.tl.awtbouplsum ;
mslboylpoun;ljalajtls.ahi.slarlmjghmumjilmrlojklajtlboylwmyymjiclAjt
kahjilwojlrmjoddklxdhustplahsl.mylrtouls.osls.tklbtutlysmddlmjls.tleoqt!
WuyclS.ose.tulybaajtplobokclOhjsl addklrtddlsaleukmjilojplbumjimjil.tu
.ojpyc

S.tlodouwlybt slruawldm lsaldm ,lruawliuah lsaliuah ,lruawlysuttslsa
ysutts,lojplbms.mjlrmqtlwmjhstyls.tlxtddylbtutlbmdpdkledojimjilojp
s.tlb.adtlsabjlboylh !lS.tlEoupmrrl.mddlt myaptlyojnlmjsalmjysojs
mjymijmrmeojet,ls.tlxhuidouylbtutlrauiasstj,l.auytylbtutlyoppdtp,lynmrry
btutlwojjtp,ls.tlrtuukxaoslauptutplahs,lojplxtrautls.tl.auuaulboyl.odr
ojl.ahuladp,lsbal.hjputplwtjlbtutl ahumjilpabjl.mi.uaoplojplumqtulsaboup
s.tleoqtc

Oddls.tldajilorstujaajls.tlqmddoitlyttwtpltw sklojplptopclWojklbawtj
qmymstplOhjsl addklojplWuyclS.ose.tulojplsumtplsaleawrausls.twclS.tk
eumtplbms.ls.tw,lsaa,lojpls.oslboylysmddlxtsstuls.ojlbaupyclOddls.t
stpmahyljmi.sls.tlsabjlbomstplrauljtby;lxhslb.tjls.tlwaujmjilpobjtplos
doys,loddls.tlbaupls.osleowtlboy,l“Ytjplwautleojpdty--ojplytjplraapc”
lWuyclS.ose.tulboylodwaysleuoftp;lojplOhjsl addk,lodyaclVhpitlS.ose.tu
ytjslwtyyoitylarl.a tlojpltjeahuoitwtjslruawls.tleoqt,lxhsls.tkleajqtktp
jalutodle.ttuc

S.tladplBtdy.wojleowtl.awtlsabouplpokdmi.s,ly osstutplbms.
eojpdt-iutoyt,lywtoutplbms.ledok,lojplodwayslbaujlahscl.tlrahjpl.hen
ysmddlmjls.tlxtpls.osl.oplxttjl uaqmptplraul.mw,lojplptdmumahylbms.
rtqtuclS.tl .kymemojylbtutloddlosls.tleoqt,lyals.tlBmpablPahidoyleowt
ojplsaanle.ouitlarls.tl osmtjsclY.tlyomply.tlbahdplpal.tulxtyslxkl.mw,
xteohyt,lb.ts.tul.tlboyliaap,lxop,laulmjpmrrtutjs,l.tlboyls.tlDaup'y,
ojpljas.mjils.oslboyls.tlDaup'ylboylols.mjilsalxtljtidtestpclS.t
Btdy.wojlyompl.henl.opliaaply asylmjl.mw,lojpls.tlbmpablyomp:

“Kahleojlpt tjplajlmsclS.os'yls.tlDaup'ylwouncl.tlpaj'sldtoqtlmslarrc
.tljtqtulpatycl hsylmslyawtb.tutlajltqtukleutoshutls.osleawtylruawl.my
.ojpyc”

Toudklmjls.tlrautjaajl ousmtylarlvoptplwtjlxtiojlsalysuoiidtlmjsals.t
qmddoit,lxhsls.tlysuajityslarls.tlemsmftjyleajsmjhtplytoue.mjiclOddls.t
jtbyls.osleahdplxtliomjtplboyls.oslutwastjtyytylarls.tleoqtujlbtutlxtmji
uojyoentpls.osl.opljtqtulxttjlqmymstplxtraut;ls.osltqtukleaujtulojp
eutqmetlboyliamjilsalxtls.auahi.dklytoue.tp;ls.oslb.tutqtulajtlbojptutp
s.uahi.ls.tlwoftlarl oyyoity,ldmi.sylbtutlsalxtlyttjlrdmssmjil.ms.tu
ojpls.ms.tulmjls.tlpmysojet,lojply.ahsmjiylojpl mysad-y.asylytjsls.tmu
.addablutqtuxtuosmajylsals.tltoulpabjls.tlyawxutlomydtyclMjlajtl doet,
roulruawls.tlytesmajlhyhoddklsuoqtuytplxklsahumysy,ls.tljowtyl“XTENKl&
SAW”l.oplxttjlrahjplsuoetplh ajls.tluaenklboddlbms.leojpdt-ywant,lojp
jtoulosl.ojploliutoyt-yamdtplxmslarlumxxajclWuyclS.ose.tuluteaijmftpls.t
umxxajlojpleumtplaqtulmsclY.tlyomplmslboyls.tldoyslutdmely.tly.ahdpltqtu
.oqtlarl.tule.mdp;lojpls.osljalas.tulwtwaumodlarl.tuleahdpltqtulxtlya
 utemahy,lxteohytls.mylajtl oustpldostyslruawls.tldmqmjilxapklxtrautls.t
obrhdlptos.leowtclYawtlyompls.osljablojpls.tj,lmjls.tleoqt,lolrou-obok
y tenlarldmi.slbahdplidmwwtu,lojpls.tjlolidaumahyly.ahslbahdplxhuys
raus.lojplolyeautlarlwtjlialsuaa mjilpabjls.tlte.amjilomydt--ojpls.tjlo
ymentjmjilpmyo  amjswtjslodbokylraddabtp;ls.tle.mdputjlbtutljasls.tut;
mslboylajdklolytoue.tu'yldmi.sc

S.uttlputoprhdlpokylojpljmi.sylpuoiitpls.tmulstpmahyl.ahuylodaji,lojp
s.tlqmddoitlyojnlmjsalol.a tdtyylysh auclJalajtl.opl.touslraulojks.mjic
S.tloeemptjsodlpmyeaqtuk,lvhyslwopt,ls.osls.tl ua umtsaularls.t
Stw tuojetlSoqtujlnt sldmghaulajl.myl utwmyty,lyeouetdklrdhsstutpls.t
 hxdmel hdyt,lsutwtjpahyloyls.tlroeslboyclMjloldhemplmjstuqod,l.hen
rttxdkldtplh lsals.tlyhxvteslarlsoqtujy,lojplrmjoddkloyntp--pmwdk
putopmjils.tlbauys--mrlojks.mjil.oplxttjlpmyeaqtutplosls.tlStw tuojet
Soqtujlymjetl.tl.oplxttjlmddc

“Kty,”lyompls.tlbmpabc

.henlysoustplh lmjlxtp,lbmdptktp:

“B.os?lB.oslboylms?”

“Dmghau!--ojpls.tl doetl.oylxttjly.hslh clDmtlpabj,le.mdp--b.oslolshujlkah
pmplimqtlwt!”

“Ajdklstddlwtlvhyslajtls.mji--ajdklvhyslajt-- dtoyt!lBoylmslSawlYobktu
s.oslrahjplms?”

S.tlbmpablxhuyslmjsalstouycl“.hy.,l.hy.,le.mdp,l.hy.!lM'qtlsadplkah
xtraut,lkahlwhysl_jas_lsodnclKahloutlqtuk,lqtuklymen!”

S.tjljas.mjilxhsldmghaul.oplxttjlrahjp;ls.tutlbahdpl.oqtlxttjloliutos
 abbablmrlmsl.oplxttjls.tliadpclYals.tlsutoyhutlboyliajtlrautqtu--iajt
rautqtu!lXhslb.osleahdply.tlxtleukmjiloxahs?lEhumahyls.osly.tly.ahdp
eukc

S.tytls.ahi.sylbauntpls.tmulpmwlbokls.uahi.l.hen'ylwmjp,lojplhjptuls.t
btoumjtyyls.tklioqtl.mwl.tlrtddloydtt clS.tlbmpablyomplsal.tuytdr:

“S.tut--.t'yloydtt ,l aaulbutenclSawlYobktulrmjplms!l msklxhslyawtxapk
eahdplrmjplSawlYobktu!lO.,ls.tutlomj'slwojkldtrs,ljab,ls.os'yliasl.a t
tjahi.,laulysutjis.ltjahi.,ltms.tu,lsalialajlytoue.mjic”




E.O STUlZZZM

JABlsalutshujlsalSawlojplXtenk'yly.outlmjls.tl mejmeclS.tklsum  tplodaji
s.tlwhunklomydtylbms.ls.tlutyslarls.tleaw ojk,lqmymsmjils.tlrowmdmou
bajptuylarls.tleoqt--bajptuylphxxtplbms.luos.tulaqtu-ptyeum smqtljowty,
yhe.loyl“S.tlPuobmji-Uaaw,”l“S.tlEos.tpuod,”l“Odoppmj'yl odoet,”lojp
yalajcl utytjsdkls.tl.mpt-ojp-yttnlruadmenmjilxtioj,lojplSawlojplXtenk
tjioitplmjlmslbms.lftodlhjsmdls.tltztusmajlxtiojlsaliuablolsumrdt
btoumyawt;ls.tjls.tklbojptutplpabjlolymjhahyloqtjhtl.adpmjils.tmu
eojpdtylodarslojplutopmjils.tlsojidtplbtxbaunlarljowty,lposty,
 aysarrmetlopputyyty,lojplwassatylbms.lb.me.ls.tluaenklboddyl.oplxttj
rutyeatpl(mjleojpdt-ywant)clYsmddlpumrsmjilodajilojplsodnmji,ls.tk
yeouetdkljasmetpls.osls.tklbtutljablmjlol ouslarls.tleoqtlb.aytlboddy
btutljaslrutyeatpclS.tklywantpls.tmulabjljowtylhjptulojlaqtu.ojimji
y.tdrlojplwaqtplajcl utytjsdkls.tkleowtlsalol doetlb.tutloldmssdtlysutow
arlbostu,lsumendmjilaqtuloldtpitlojpleouukmjiloldmwtysajtlytpmwtjslbms.
ms,l.op,lmjls.tlydab-puoiimjiloity,lrauwtploldoetplojpluhrrdtplJmoiouo
mjlidtowmjilojplmw tumy.oxdtlysajtclSawlyghttftpl.mylywoddlxapklxt.mjp
mslmjlauptulsalmddhwmjostlmslraulXtenk'yliuosmrmeosmajcl.tlrahjpls.os
mslehusomjtplolyauslarlystt ljoshuodlysomuboklb.me.lboyltjedaytplxtsbttj
jouuablboddy,lojploslajetls.tlowxmsmajlsalxtlolpmyeaqtutulytmftpl.mwc

Xtenkluty ajptplsal.myleodd,lojpls.tklwoptlolywant-wounlraulrhshut
ihmpojet,lojplysoustplh ajls.tmulghtysclS.tklbahjpls.mylboklojpls.os,
roulpabjlmjsals.tlyteutslpt s.ylarls.tleoqt,lwoptlojas.tulwoun,lojp
xuoje.tplarrlmjlytoue.larljaqtdsmtylsalstddls.tlh  tulbaudploxahsclMj
ajtl doetls.tklrahjploly oemahyleoqtuj,lruawlb.aytletmdmjilpt tjptplo
whdsmshptlarly.mjmjilysodoesmstylarls.tldtjis.lojplemuehwrtutjetlar
olwoj'yldti;ls.tklbodntploddloxahslms,lbajptumjilojplopwmumji,lojp
 utytjsdkldtrslmslxklajtlarls.tljhwtuahyl oyyoityls.osla tjtplmjsa
msclS.myly.ausdklxuahi.sls.twlsalolxtbmse.mjily umji,lb.aytlxoymjlboy
mjeuhystplbms.lolruaysbaunlarlidmsstumjileukysody;lmslboylmjls.tlwmpys
arloleoqtujlb.aytlboddylbtutlyh  austplxklwojklrojsoysmel mddouylb.me.
.oplxttjlrauwtplxkls.tlvamjmjilarliutoslysodoesmstylojplysodoiwmsty
saits.tu,ls.tlutyhdslarls.tletoytdtyylbostu-pum larletjshumtyclHjptuls.t
uaarlqoyslnjasylarlxosyl.opl oentpls.twytdqtylsaits.tu,ls.ahyojpylmjlo
xhje.;ls.tldmi.sylpmyshuxtpls.tleutoshutylojpls.tkleowtlrdaenmjilpabjlxk
.hjputpy,lyghtonmjilojplpousmjilrhumahydklosls.tleojpdtyclSawlnjtbls.tmu
bokylojpls.tlpojitularls.mylyauslarleajphescl.tlytmftplXtenk'yl.ojplojp
.huumtpl.tulmjsals.tlrmuysleauumpauls.oslarrtutp;lojpljajtlsaalyaaj,lrau
olxoslysuhenlXtenk'yldmi.slahslbms.lmsylbmjilb.mdtly.tlboyl oyymjilahs
arls.tleoqtujclS.tlxosyle.oytpls.tle.mdputjloliaaplpmysojet;lxhsls.t
rhimsmqtyl dhjitplmjsaltqtukljtbl oyyoitls.oslarrtutp,lojplosldoyslias
umplarls.tl tumdahyls.mjiyclSawlrahjplolyhxstuuojtojldont,ly.ausdk,
b.me.lysutse.tplmsylpmwldtjis.loboklhjsmdlmsyly.o tlboyldayslmjls.t
y.opabycl.tlbojstplsaltz dautlmsylxauptuy,lxhsleajedhptpls.oslmslbahdp
xtlxtyslsalymslpabjlojplutyslob.mdt,lrmuysclJab,lrauls.tlrmuyslsmwt,ls.t
ptt lysmddjtyylarls.tl doetldomploledowwkl.ojplh ajls.tly mumsylarls.t
e.mdputjclXtenklyomp:

“B.k,lMlpmpj'sljasmet,lxhslmslyttwyltqtulyaldajilymjetlMl.touplojklar
s.tlas.tuyc”

“Eawtlsals.mjn,lXtenk,lbtloutloboklpabjlxtdabls.tw--ojplMlpaj'slnjabl.ab
roulobokljaus.,laulyahs.,laultoys,laulb.me.tqtulmslmyclBtleahdpj'sl.tou
s.twl.tutc”

Xtenkliutblo  ut.tjymqtc

“Mlbajptul.abldajilbt'qtlxttjlpabjl.tut,lSaw?lBtlxtsstulysouslxoenc”

“Kty,lMlutenajlbtlxtsstucl 'uo ylbtlxtsstuc”

“Eojlkahlrmjpls.tlbok,lSaw?lMs'yloddlolwmztp-h leuaantpjtyylsalwtc”

“MlutenajlMleahdplrmjplms--xhsls.tjls.tlxosyclMrls.tkl hslahuleojpdty
ahslmslbmddlxtlojlobrhdlrmzclDts'ylsuklyawtlas.tulbok,lyaloyljaslsalia
s.uahi.ls.tutc”

“BtddclXhslMl.a tlbtlbaj'slitsldaysclMslbahdplxtlyalobrhd!”lojpls.tlimud
y.hpptutplosls.tls.ahi.slarls.tlputoprhdl ayymxmdmsmtyc

S.tklysoustpls.uahi.loleauumpau,lojplsuoqtuytplmslmjlymdtjetloldaji
bok,lidojemjilosltoe.ljtbla tjmji,lsalyttlmrls.tutlboylojks.mjilrowmdmou
oxahsls.tldaanlarlms;lxhsls.tklbtutloddlysuojitclTqtuklsmwtlSawlwoptloj
tzowmjosmaj,lXtenklbahdplbose.l.mylroetlraulojltjeahuoimjilymij,lojpl.t
bahdplyokle.ttumdk:

“A.,lms'yloddlumi.sclS.mylomj'sls.tlajt,lxhslbt'ddleawtlsalmslumi.s
obok!”

Xhsl.tlrtdsldtyylojpldtyyl.a trhdlbms.ltoe.lromdhut,lojpl utytjsdklxtioj
salshujlarrlmjsalpmqtuimjiloqtjhtylosly.ttuluojpaw,lmjlpty tuostl.a tlar
rmjpmjils.tlajtls.oslboylbojstpcl.tlysmddlyomplmslboyl“oddlumi.s,”lxhs
s.tutlboylyhe.loldtoptjlputoplosl.myl.tousls.osls.tlbaupyl.opldaysls.tmu
umjilojplyahjptplvhysloylmrl.tl.oplyomp,l“Oddlmyldays!”lXtenkledhjilsa
.mylymptlmjlojlojihmy.larlrtou,lojplsumtpl.ouplsalntt lxoenls.tlstouy,
xhsls.tklbahdpleawtclOsldoysly.tlyomp:

“A.,lSaw,ljtqtulwmjpls.tlxosy,ldts'ylialxoenls.oslbok!lBtlyttwlsalits
bauytlojplbauytlarrloddls.tlsmwtc”

“Dmystj!”lyompl.tc

 uarahjplymdtjet;lymdtjetlyalptt ls.osltqtjls.tmulxutos.mjiylbtut
eajy mehahylmjls.tl.hy.clSawly.ahstpclS.tleoddlbtjslte.amjilpabj
s.tltw sklomydtylojplpmtplahslmjls.tlpmysojetlmjlolromjslyahjpls.os
utytwxdtplolum  dtlarlwaenmjildohi.stuc

“A.,lpaj'slpalmsloiomj,lSaw,lmslmylsaal.auump,”lyomplXtenkc

“Mslmyl.auump,lxhslMlxtsstu,lXtenk;ls.tklwmi.sl.toulhy,lkahlnjab,”lojp
.tly.ahstploiomjc

S.tl“wmi.s”lboyltqtjlole.mddmtul.auuauls.ojls.tli.aysdkldohi.stu,lmslya
eajrtyytplol tumy.mjil.a tclS.tle.mdputjlysaaplysmddlojpldmystjtp;lxhs
s.tutlboyljalutyhdsclSawlshujtplh ajls.tlxoenlsuoenloslajet,lojpl.huumtp
.mylyst yclMslboylxhsloldmssdtlb.mdtlxtrautloletusomjlmjptemymajlmjl.my
wojjtulutqtodtplojas.tulrtourhdlroeslsalXtenk--.tleahdpljaslrmjpl.mylbok
xoen!

“A.,lSaw,lkahlpmpj'slwontlojklwouny!”

“Xtenk,lMlboylyhe.lolraad!lYhe.lolraad!lMljtqtuls.ahi.slbtlwmi.slbojslsa
eawtlxoen!lJa--Mleoj'slrmjpls.tlbokclMs'yloddlwmztplh c”

“Saw,lSaw,lbt'utldays!lbt'utldays!lBtljtqtuleojlitslahslarls.mylobrhd
 doet!lA.,lb.kl_pmp_lbtltqtuldtoqtls.tlas.tuy!”

Y.tlyojnlsals.tliuahjplojplxhuyslmjsalyhe.lolrutjfklarleukmjils.oslSaw
boylo  oddtplbms.ls.tlmptols.osly.tlwmi.slpmt,lauldaytl.tulutoyajcl.t
yoslpabjlxkl.tulojpl hsl.mylouwylouahjpl.tu;ly.tlxhumtpl.tulroetlmj
.mylxayaw,ly.tledhjilsal.mw,ly.tl ahutplahsl.tulstuuauy,l.tulhjoqomdmji
utiutsy,lojpls.tlroulte.atylshujtpls.twloddlsalvttumjildohi.stuclSaw
xtiitpl.tulsal dhenlh l.a tloiomj,lojply.tlyomply.tleahdpljascl.tlrtdd
salxdowmjilojploxhymjil.mwytdrlraulitssmjil.tulmjsals.mylwmytuoxdt
ymshosmaj;ls.myl.oplolxtsstultrrtesclY.tlyomply.tlbahdplsuklsal.a t
oiomj,ly.tlbahdplitslh lojplraddablb.tutqtul.tlwmi.sldtoplmrlajdkl.t
bahdpljaslsodnldmntls.oslojklwautclRaul.tlboyljalwautlsalxdowtls.ojly.t,
y.tlyompc

Yals.tklwaqtplajloiomj--omwdtyydk--ymw dklosluojpaw--oddls.tkleahdplpa
boylsalwaqt,lntt lwaqmjiclRauloldmssdtlb.mdt,l.a tlwoptloly.ablar
utqmqmji--jaslbms.lojklutoyajlsalxoenlms,lxhslajdklxteohytlmslmylmsy
joshutlsalutqmqtlb.tjls.tly umjil.oyljaslxttjlsontjlahslarlmslxkloitlojp
rowmdmoumsklbms.lromdhutc

Xk-ojp-xklSawlsaanlXtenk'yleojpdtlojplxdtblmslahsclS.mylteajawklwtojslya
whe.!lBaupylbtutljasljttptpclXtenklhjptuysaap,lojpl.tul.a tlpmtploiomjc
Y.tlnjtbls.oslSawl.oplolb.adtleojpdtlojpls.uttlaulrahul mtetylmjl.my
 aentsy--ktsl.tlwhyslteajawmftc

Xk-ojp-xk,lrosmihtlxtiojlsaloyytuslmsyledomwy;ls.tle.mdputjlsumtplsal ok
osstjsmaj,lraulmslboylputoprhdlsals.mjnlarlymssmjilpabjlb.tjlsmwtlboy
iuabjlsalxtlyal utemahy,lwaqmji,lmjlyawtlpmutesmaj,lmjlojklpmutesmaj,
boylosldtoysl uaiutyylojplwmi.slxtoulruhms;lxhslsalymslpabjlboylsa
mjqmstlptos.lojply.austjlmsyl huyhmsc

OsldoyslXtenk'ylruomdldmwxylutrhytplsaleouukl.tulrous.tuclY.tlyoslpabjc
Sawlutystplbms.l.tu,lojpls.tklsodntplarl.awt,lojpls.tlrumtjpyls.tut,
ojpls.tleawrausoxdtlxtpylojp,loxaqtlodd,ls.tldmi.s!lXtenkleumtp,lojplSaw
sumtplsals.mjnlarlyawtlboklarleawrausmjil.tu,lxhsloddl.myltjeahuoitwtjsy
btutliuabjls.utop-xoutlbms.lhyt,lojplyahjptpldmntlyoueoywyclRosmihtlxaut
yal.toqmdklh ajlXtenkls.osly.tlpuabytplarrlsalydtt clSawlboyliuostrhdc
.tlyosldaanmjilmjsal.tulpuobjlroetlojplyoblmsliuablywaas.lojpljoshuod
hjptuls.tlmjrdhtjetlarl dtoyojslputowy;lojplxk-ojp-xklolywmdtlpobjtplojp
utystpls.tutclS.tl toetrhdlroetlutrdtestplyawtb.oslarl toetlojpl.todmji
mjsal.mylabjly mums,lojpl.myls.ahi.sylbojptutploboklsalxkiajtlsmwtylojp
putowklwtwaumtyclB.mdtl.tlboylptt lmjl.mylwhymjiy,lXtenklbantlh lbms.lo
xuttfkldmssdtldohi.--xhslmslboylysumentjlptoplh ajl.tuldm y,lojploliuaoj
raddabtplmsc

“A.,l.abl_eahdp_lMlydtt !lMlbmy.lMljtqtu,ljtqtul.oplbontp!lJa!lJa,lM
paj's,lSaw!lPaj'sldaanlya!lMlbaj'slyoklmsloiomjc”

“M'wlidoplkah'qtlydt s,lXtenk;lkah'ddlrttdlutystp,ljab,lojplbt'ddlrmjp
s.tlboklahsc”

“Btleojlsuk,lSaw;lxhslM'qtlyttjlyhe.lolxtohsmrhdleahjsuklmjlwklputowclM
utenajlbtloutliamjils.tutc”

“Wokxtljas,lwokxtljasclE.ttulh ,lXtenk,lojpldts'ylialajlsukmjic”

S.tkluaytlh lojplbojptutplodaji,l.ojplmjl.ojplojpl.a tdtyyclS.tklsumtp
saltysmwostl.abldajils.tkl.oplxttjlmjls.tleoqt,lxhsloddls.tklnjtblboy
s.oslmslyttwtplpokylojplbttny,lojplktslmslboyl domjls.osls.myleahdpljas
xt,lrauls.tmuleojpdtylbtutljasliajtlktsclOldajilsmwtlorstuls.my--s.tk
eahdpljaslstddl.abldaji--Sawlyompls.tklwhyslialyarsdklojpldmystjlrau
pum  mjilbostu--s.tklwhyslrmjploly umjiclS.tklrahjplajtl utytjsdk,lojp
SawlyomplmslboylsmwtlsalutysloiomjclXas.lbtutleuhtddklsmutp,lktslXtenk
yomply.tls.ahi.sly.tleahdplialoldmssdtlrous.tuclY.tlboylyhu umytplsa
.toulSawlpmyytjsclY.tleahdpljaslhjptuysojplmsclS.tklyoslpabj,lojplSaw
roystjtpl.myleojpdtlsals.tlboddlmjlruajslarls.twlbms.lyawtledokclS.ahi.s
boylyaajlxhyk;ljas.mjilboylyomplraulyawtlsmwtclS.tjlXtenklxuantls.t
ymdtjet:

“Saw,lMlowlyal.hjiuk!”

Sawlsaanlyawts.mjilahslarl.myl aentsc

“Palkahlutwtwxtuls.my?”lyompl.tc

Xtenklodwayslywmdtpc

“Ms'ylahulbtppmji-eont,lSawc”

“Kty--Mlbmy.lmslboyloylxmiloylolxouutd,lraulms'yloddlbt'qtliasc”

“Mlyoqtplmslruawls.tl mejmelraulhylsalputowlaj,lSaw,ls.tlbokliuabjh 
 ta dtlpalbms.lbtppmji-eont--xhslms'ddlxtlahu--”

Y.tlpua  tpls.tlytjstjetlb.tutlmslboyclSawlpmqmptpls.tleontlojplXtenk
ostlbms.liaaplo  tsmst,lb.mdtlSawljmxxdtplosl.mylwamtskclS.tutlboy
oxhjpojetlarleadplbostulsalrmjmy.ls.tlrtoyslbms.clXk-ojp-xklXtenk
yhiitystpls.osls.tklwaqtlajloiomjclSawlboylymdtjslolwawtjsclS.tjl.t
yomp:

“Xtenk,leojlkahlxtoulmslmrlMlstddlkahlyawts.mji?”

Xtenk'ylroetl odtp,lxhsly.tls.ahi.sly.tleahdpc

“Btdd,ls.tj,lXtenk,lbtlwhyslysokl.tut,lb.tutls.tut'ylbostulsalpumjnc
S.osldmssdtl mtetlmylahuldoysleojpdt!”

XtenklioqtldaaytlsalstouylojplbomdmjiyclSawlpmplb.osl.tleahdplsaleawraus
.tu,lxhslbms.ldmssdtltrrtesclOsldtjis.lXtenklyomp:

“Saw!”

“Btdd,lXtenk?”

“S.tk'ddlwmyylhylojpl.hjslraulhy!”

“Kty,ls.tklbmdd!lEtusomjdkls.tklbmdd!”

“Wokxtls.tk'utl.hjsmjilraulhyljab,lSawc”

“B.k,lMlutenajlwokxtls.tkloutclMl.a tls.tkloutc”

“B.tjlbahdpls.tklwmyylhy,lSaw?”

“B.tjls.tklitslxoenlsals.tlxaos,lMlutenajc”

“Saw,lmslwmi.slxtlpounls.tj--bahdpls.tkljasmetlbtl.opj'sleawt?”

“Mlpaj'slnjabclXhslojkbok,lkahulwas.tulbahdplwmyylkahloylyaajloyls.tk
iasl.awtc”

Olrumi.stjtpldaanlmjlXtenk'ylroetlxuahi.slSawlsal.mylytjytylojpl.tlyob
s.osl.tl.oplwoptlolxdhjptuclXtenklboyljaslsal.oqtliajtl.awtls.osljmi.s!
S.tle.mdputjlxteowtlymdtjslojpls.ahi.srhdclMjlolwawtjsloljtblxhuyslar
iumtrlruawlXtenkly.abtplSawls.osls.tls.mjilmjl.mylwmjpl.oplysuhenl.tuy
odya--s.osls.tlYoxxos.lwaujmjilwmi.slxtl.odrly tjslxtrautlWuyclS.ose.tu
pmyeaqtutpls.oslXtenklboyljasloslWuycl.ou tu'yc

S.tle.mdputjlroystjtpls.tmultktylh ajls.tmulxmslarleojpdtlojplbose.tplms
wtdslydabdklojpl msmdtyydklobok;lyobls.tl.odrlmje.larlbmenlysojplodajt
osldoys;lyobls.tlrttxdtlrdowtlumytlojplrodd,ledmwxls.tls.mjleadhwjlar
ywant,ldmjituloslmsylsa lolwawtjs,lojpls.tj--s.tl.auuaularlhsstulpounjtyy
utmijtp!

.abldajilorstubouplmslboyls.oslXtenkleowtlsalolydableajyemahyjtyyls.os
y.tlboyleukmjilmjlSaw'ylouwy,ljtms.tuleahdplstddclOddls.osls.tklnjtb
boy,ls.oslorstulb.oslyttwtplolwmi.sklysutse.larlsmwt,lxas.lobantlahslar
olptoplysh aularlydtt lojplutyhwtpls.tmulwmytumtylajetlwautclSawlyomp
mslwmi.slxtlYhjpok,ljab--wokxtlWajpokcl.tlsumtplsalitslXtenklsalsodn,lxhs
.tulyauuabylbtutlsaala  utyymqt,loddl.tul.a tylbtutliajtclSawlyompls.os
s.tklwhysl.oqtlxttjlwmyytpldajiloia,lojpljalpahxsls.tlytoue.lboyliamji
ajcl.tlbahdply.ahslojplwokxtlyawtlajtlbahdpleawtcl.tlsumtplms;lxhslmj
s.tlpounjtyyls.tlpmysojslte.atylyahjptplyal.mptahydkls.osl.tlsumtplmslja
wautc

S.tl.ahuylboystplobok,lojpl.hjituleowtlsalsauwtjsls.tleo smqtyloiomjclO
 ausmajlarlSaw'yl.odrlarls.tleontlboyldtrs;ls.tklpmqmptplojplostlmsclXhs
s.tklyttwtpl.hjiumtuls.ojlxtrautclS.tl aaulwauytdlarlraaplajdklb.tsstp
ptymutc

Xk-ojp-xklSawlyomp:

“Y.!lPmplkahl.touls.os?”

Xas.l.tdpls.tmulxutos.lojpldmystjtpclS.tutlboylolyahjpldmntls.t
romjstys,lrou-arrly.ahsclMjysojsdklSawlojybtutplms,lojpldtopmjilXtenklxk
s.tl.ojp,lysoustpliua mjilpabjls.tleauumpaulmjlmsylpmutesmajcl utytjsdk
.tldmystjtploiomj;loiomjls.tlyahjplboyl.toup,lojplo  outjsdkloldmssdt
jtoutuc

“Ms'yls.tw!”lyomplSaw;l“s.tk'utleawmji!lEawtlodaji,lXtenk--bt'utlodd
umi.sljab!”

S.tlvaklarls.tl umyajtuylboylodwayslaqtub.tdwmjiclS.tmuly ttplboylydab,
.abtqtu,lxteohytl msroddylbtutlyawtb.osleawwaj,lojpl.oplsalxtlihouptp
oiomjysclS.tkly.ausdkleowtlsalajtlojpl.oplsalysa clMslwmi.slxtls.utt
rttslptt ,lmslwmi.slxtlol.hjputp--s.tutlboyljal oyymjilmsloslojkluostc
Sawliaslpabjlajl.mylxutoyslojplutoe.tploylroulpabjloyl.tleahdpclJa
xassawclS.tklwhyslysokls.tutlojplbomslhjsmdls.tlytoue.tuyleowtclS.tk
dmystjtp;ltqmptjsdkls.tlpmysojsly.ahsmjiylbtutliuabmjilwautlpmysojs!
olwawtjslaulsbalwautlojpls.tkl.opliajtlodsaits.tuclS.tl.tous-ymjnmji
wmytuklarlms!lSawlb.aa tplhjsmdl.tlboyl.aouyt,lxhslmslboylarljalhytcl.t
sodntpl.a trhddklsalXtenk;lxhslojloitlarlojzmahylbomsmjil oyytplojplja
yahjpyleowtloiomjc

S.tle.mdputjliua tpls.tmulboklxoenlsals.tly umjiclS.tlbtouklsmwtlpuoiitp
aj;ls.tklydt sloiomj,lojplobantlrowmy.tplojplbat-ysumentjclSawlxtdmtqtp
mslwhyslxtlShtypoklxkls.mylsmwtc

Jablojlmptolysuhenl.mwclS.tutlbtutlyawtlymptl oyyoityljtoulosl.ojpclMs
bahdplxtlxtsstulsaltz dautlyawtlarls.tytls.ojlxtouls.tlbtmi.slarls.t
.toqklsmwtlmjlmpdtjtyycl.tlsaanlolnmst-dmjtlruawl.myl aents,lsmtplmslsa
ol uavtesmaj,lojpl.tlojplXtenklysoustp,lSawlmjls.tldtop,lhjbmjpmjils.t
dmjtloyl.tliua tplodajiclOsls.tltjplarlsbtjsklyst yls.tleauumpaultjptp
mjlol“vhw mji-arrl doetc”lSawliaslpabjlajl.mylnjttylojplrtdslxtdab,
ojpls.tjloylroulouahjpls.tleaujtuloyl.tleahdplutoe.lbms.l.myl.ojpy
eajqtjmtjsdk;l.tlwoptlojltrrauslsalysutse.lktsloldmssdtlrous.tulsals.t
umi.s,lojplosls.oslwawtjs,ljaslsbtjsklkoupylobok,lol.hwojl.ojp,l.adpmji
oleojpdt,lo  toutplruawlxt.mjploluaen!lSawldmrstplh lolidaumahyly.ahs,
ojplmjysojsdkls.osl.ojplboylraddabtplxkls.tlxapklmslxtdajitplsa--Mjvhj
Vat'y!lSawlboyl ouodkftp;l.tleahdpljaslwaqtcl.tlboylqoysdkliuosmrmtpls.t
jtzslwawtjs,lsalyttls.tl“Y ojmoup”lsontlsal.myl.ttdylojplitsl.mwytdrlahs
arlymi.sclSawlbajptutpls.oslVatl.opljasluteaijmftpl.mylqametlojpleawt
aqtulojplnmddtpl.mwlraulstysmrkmjilmjleahusclXhsls.tlte.atylwhysl.oqt
pmyihmytpls.tlqametclBms.ahslpahxs,ls.oslboylms,l.tlutoyajtpclSaw'y
rumi.slbtontjtpltqtuklwhyedtlmjl.mylxapkcl.tlyomplsal.mwytdrls.oslmrl.t
.oplysutjis.ltjahi.lsalitslxoenlsals.tly umjil.tlbahdplysokls.tut,lojp
jas.mjily.ahdplstw sl.mwlsaluhjls.tlumynlarlwttsmjilMjvhjlVatloiomjcl.t
boyleoutrhdlsalntt lruawlXtenklb.oslmslboyl.tl.oplyttjcl.tlsadpl.tul.t
.oplajdkly.ahstpl“rauldhenc”

Xhsl.hjitulojplbutse.tpjtyylumytlyh tumaulsalrtouylmjls.tldajiluhjc
Ojas.tulstpmahylbomslosls.tly umjilojplojas.tuldajilydtt lxuahi.s
e.ojityclS.tle.mdputjlobantlsaushutplbms.loluoimjil.hjituclSawlxtdmtqtp
s.oslmslwhyslxtlBtpjtypoklaulS.huypoklaultqtjlRumpoklaulYoshupok,ljab,
ojpls.osls.tlytoue.l.oplxttjlimqtjlaqtucl.tl ua aytplsaltz dautlojas.tu
 oyyoitcl.tlrtdslbmddmjilsalumynlMjvhjlVatlojploddlas.tulstuuauyclXhs
XtenklboylqtuklbtonclY.tl.oplyhjnlmjsalolputouklo os.klojplbahdpljaslxt
uahytpclY.tlyomply.tlbahdplboms,ljab,lb.tutly.tlboy,lojplpmt--mslbahdp
jaslxtldajiclY.tlsadplSawlsalialbms.ls.tlnmst-dmjtlojpltz dautlmrl.t
e.ayt;lxhsly.tlmw dautpl.mwlsaleawtlxoenltqtukldmssdtlb.mdtlojply ton
sal.tu;lojply.tlwoptl.mwl uawmytls.oslb.tjls.tlobrhdlsmwtleowt,l.tlbahdp
ysoklxkl.tulojpl.adpl.tul.ojplhjsmdloddlboylaqtuc

Sawlnmyytpl.tu,lbms.lole.anmjilytjyosmajlmjl.myls.uaos,lojplwoptloly.ab
arlxtmjileajrmptjslarlrmjpmjils.tlytoue.tuylaulojltyeo tlruawls.tleoqt;
s.tjl.tlsaanls.tlnmst-dmjtlmjl.myl.ojplojplbtjsliua mjilpabjlajtlarls.t
 oyyoitylajl.myl.ojpylojplnjtty,lpmysutyytplbms.l.hjitulojplymenlbms.
xapmjiylarleawmjilpaawc




E.O STUlZZZMM

SHTYPOKlorstujaajleowt,lojplbojtplsals.tlsbmdmi.sclS.tlqmddoitlarlYsc
 tstuyxhuilysmddlwahujtpclS.tldaysle.mdputjl.opljaslxttjlrahjpcl hxdme
 uoktuyl.oplxttjlarrtutplh lrauls.tw,lojplwojklojplwojklol umqostl uoktu
s.osl.opls.tl tsmsmajtu'ylb.adtl.touslmjlms;lxhslysmddljaliaapljtbyleowt
ruawls.tleoqtclS.tlwovaumsklarls.tlytoue.tuyl.oplimqtjlh ls.tlghtys
ojpliajtlxoenlsals.tmulpomdkloqaeosmajy,lyokmjils.oslmslboyl domjls.t
e.mdputjleahdpljtqtulxtlrahjpclWuyclS.ose.tulboylqtuklmdd,lojploliutos
 ouslarls.tlsmwtlptdmumahycl ta dtlyomplmslboyl.tousxutonmjilsal.toul.tu
eoddl.tule.mdp,lojpluomytl.tul.toplojpldmystjlolb.adtlwmjhstloslolsmwt,
s.tjldoklmslbtoumdklpabjloiomjlbms.lolwaojclOhjsl addkl.oplpuaa tplmjsa
olytssdtplwtdoje.adk,lojpl.tuliuokl.omul.opliuabjlodwayslb.mstclS.t
qmddoitlbtjslsalmsylutyslajlShtypokljmi.s,lyoplojplraudaujc

Oboklmjls.tlwmppdtlarls.tljmi.slolbmdpl todlxhuyslruawls.tlqmddoit
xtddy,lojplmjlolwawtjsls.tlysuttsylbtutlybouwmjilbms.lruojsmel.odr-edop
 ta dt,lb.aly.ahstp,l“Shujlahs!lshujlahs!ls.tk'utlrahjp!ls.tk'utlrahjp!”
lSmjl ojylojpl.aujylbtutlopptplsals.tlpmj,ls.tl a hdosmajlwoyytplmsytdr
ojplwaqtplsaboupls.tlumqtu,lwtsls.tle.mdputjleawmjilmjlojla tjleouumoit
puobjlxkly.ahsmjilemsmftjy,ls.uajitplouahjplms,lvamjtplmsyl.awtboup
woue.,lojplybt slwoijmrmetjsdklh ls.tlwomjlysuttsluaoumjil.hffo.lorstu
.hffo.!

S.tlqmddoitlboylmddhwmjostp;ljaxapklbtjslsalxtploiomj;lmslboyls.t
iutostysljmi.sls.tldmssdtlsabjl.opltqtulyttjclPhumjils.tlrmuysl.odr-.ahu
ol uaetyymajlarlqmddoituylrmdtpls.uahi.lVhpitlS.ose.tu'yl.ahyt,lytmftp
s.tlyoqtplajtylojplnmyytpls.tw,lyghttftplWuyclS.ose.tu'yl.ojp,lsumtplsa
y tonlxhsleahdpj's--ojplpumrstplahsluomjmjilstouyloddlaqtuls.tl doetc

Ohjsl addk'yl.o  mjtyylboyleaw dtst,lojplWuyclS.ose.tu'yljtoudklyaclMs
bahdplxtleaw dtst,l.abtqtu,loylyaajloyls.tlwtyytjitulpmy ose.tplbms.ls.t
iutosljtbylsals.tleoqtly.ahdplitsls.tlbauplsal.tul.hyxojpclSawldoklh aj
olyarolbms.lojltoitulohpmsaukloxahsl.mwlojplsadpls.tl.mysauklarls.t
bajpturhdlopqtjshut,l hssmjilmjlwojklysumnmjiloppmsmajylsalopaujlms
bms.od;lojpledaytplbms.lolptyeum smajlarl.abl.tldtrslXtenklojplbtjs
ajlojltz daumjiltz tpmsmaj;l.abl.tlraddabtplsbaloqtjhtyloylrouloyl.my
nmst-dmjtlbahdplutoe.;l.abl.tlraddabtplols.muplsals.tlrhddtyslysutse.
arls.tlnmst-dmjt,lojplboyloxahslsalshujlxoenlb.tjl.tlidmw ytplolrou-arr
y tenls.osldaantpldmntlpokdmi.s;lpua  tpls.tldmjtlojpliua tplsabouplms,
 hy.tpl.myl.toplojply.ahdptuyls.uahi.lolywoddl.adt,lojplyobls.tlxuaop
Wmyymyym  mluaddmjilxk!

Ojplmrlmsl.oplajdkl.o  tjtplsalxtljmi.sl.tlbahdpljasl.oqtlyttjls.os
y tenlarlpokdmi.slojplbahdpljasl.oqtltz dautpls.osl oyyoitlojklwaut!l.t
sadpl.abl.tlbtjslxoenlraulXtenklojplxuantls.tliaapljtbylojply.tlsadp
.mwljaslsalrutsl.tulbms.lyhe.lyshrr,lrauly.tlboylsmutp,lojplnjtbly.tlboy
iamjilsalpmt,lojplbojstplsacl.tlptyeumxtpl.abl.tldoxautplbms.l.tulojp
eajqmjetpl.tu;lojpl.ably.tlodwayslpmtplraulvaklb.tjly.tl.opliua tplsa
b.tutly.tloeshoddklyobls.tlxdhtly tenlarlpokdmi.s;l.abl.tl hy.tpl.mylbok
ahslosls.tl.adtlojpls.tjl.td tpl.tulahs;l.abls.tklyosls.tutlojpleumtp
raulidopjtyy;l.ablyawtlwtjleowtlodajilmjlolynmrrlojplSawl.omdtpls.tw
ojplsadpls.twls.tmulymshosmajlojpls.tmulrowmy.tpleajpmsmaj;l.abls.tlwtj
pmpj'slxtdmtqtls.tlbmdplsodtloslrmuys,l“xteohyt,”lyompls.tk,l“kahlout
rmqtlwmdtylpabjls.tlumqtulxtdabls.tlqoddtkls.tleoqtlmylmj”--s.tjlsaan
s.twloxaoup,luabtplsalol.ahyt,lioqtls.twlyh  tu,lwoptls.twlutyslsmddlsba
auls.uttl.ahuylorstulpounlojpls.tjlxuahi.sls.twl.awtc

Xtrautlpok-pobj,lVhpitlS.ose.tulojpls.tl.ojprhdlarlytoue.tuylbms.l.mw
btutlsuoentplahs,lmjls.tleoqt,lxkls.tlsbmjtledtbyls.tkl.oplysuhjilxt.mjp
s.tw,lojplmjrauwtplarls.tliutosljtbyc

S.uttlpokylojpljmi.sylarlsamdlojpl.hjitulmjls.tleoqtlbtutljaslsa
xtly.ontjlarrloslajet,loylSawlojplXtenklyaajlpmyeaqtutpclS.tklbtut
xtpumpptjloddlarlBtpjtypoklojplS.huypok,lojplyttwtplsaliuablwautlojp
wautlsmutplojplbauj,loddls.tlsmwtclSawliasloxahs,loldmssdt,lajlS.huypok,
boylpabjsabjlRumpok,lojpljtoudkloylb.adtloyltqtulYoshupok;lxhslXtenk
pmpljasldtoqtl.tuluaawlhjsmdlYhjpok,lojpls.tjly.tldaantploylmrly.tl.op
 oyytpls.uahi.lolboysmjilmddjtyyc

Sawldtoujtplarl.hen'ylymenjtyylojplbtjslsalyttl.mwlajlRumpok,lxhsleahdp
jaslxtlopwmsstplsals.tlxtpuaaw;ljtms.tuleahdpl.tlajlYoshupoklaulYhjpokc
.tlboylopwmsstplpomdklorstuls.os,lxhslboylboujtplsalntt lysmddloxahsl.my
opqtjshutlojplmjsuaphetljaltzemsmjilsa meclS.tlBmpablPahidoylysoktplxk
salyttls.osl.tlaxtktpclOsl.awtlSawldtoujtplarls.tlEoupmrrl.mddltqtjs;
odyals.osls.tl“uoiitplwoj'y”lxapkl.opltqtjshoddklxttjlrahjplmjls.tlumqtu
jtouls.tlrtuuk-dojpmji;l.tl.oplxttjlpuabjtplb.mdtlsukmjilsaltyeo t,
 tu.o yc

Oxahslolrausjmi.slorstulSaw'ylutyehtlruawls.tleoqt,l.tlysoustplarrlsa
qmymsl.hen,lb.al.opliuabjl dtjsklysuajiltjahi.,ljab,lsal.toultzemsmji
sodn,lojplSawl.oplyawtls.oslbahdplmjstutysl.mw,l.tls.ahi.sclVhpit
S.ose.tu'yl.ahytlboylajlSaw'ylbok,lojpl.tlysa  tplsalyttlXtenkclS.t
VhpitlojplyawtlrumtjpylytslSawlsalsodnmji,lojplyawtlajtloyntpl.mw
muajmeoddklmrl.tlbahdpj'sldmntlsalialsals.tleoqtloiomjclSawlyompl.t
s.ahi.sl.tlbahdpj'slwmjplmsclS.tlVhpitlyomp:

“Btdd,ls.tutloutlas.tuylvhysldmntlkah,lSaw,lM'qtljasls.tldtoyslpahxsc
Xhslbtl.oqtlsontjleoutlarls.osclJaxapklbmddlitsldayslmjls.osleoqtlojk
wautc”

“B.k?”

“XteohytlMl.oplmsylxmilpaauly.tos.tplbms.lxamdtulmuajlsbalbttnyloia,lojp
sum dt-daentp--ojplM'qtliasls.tlntkyc”

Sawlshujtploylb.mstloyloly.ttsc

“B.os'yls.tlwosstu,lxak!l.tut,luhj,lyawtxapk!lRtse.lolidoyylarlbostu!”

S.tlbostulboylxuahi.slojpls.uabjlmjsalSaw'ylroetc

“O.,ljablkah'utloddlumi.sclB.oslboyls.tlwosstulbms.lkah,lSaw?”

“A.,lVhpit,lMjvhjlVat'ylmjls.tleoqt!”




E.O STUlZZZMMM

BMS.MJlolrtblwmjhstyls.tljtbyl.oply utop,lojplolpaftjlynmrr-daopylar
wtjlbtutlajls.tmulboklsalWePahiod'yleoqt,lojpls.tlrtuukxaos,lbtddlrmddtp
bms.l oyytjituy,lyaajlraddabtpclSawlYobktulboylmjls.tlynmrrls.oslxaut
VhpitlS.ose.tuc

B.tjls.tleoqtlpaaulboylhjdaentp,lolyauuabrhdlymi.sl utytjstplmsytdrlmj
s.tlpmwlsbmdmi.slarls.tl doetclMjvhjlVatldoklysutse.tplh ajls.tliuahjp,
ptop,lbms.l.mylroetledaytlsals.tleuoenlarls.tlpaau,loylmrl.myldajimji
tktyl.oplxttjlrmztp,lsals.tldostyslwawtjs,lh ajls.tldmi.slojpls.tle.ttu
arls.tlruttlbaudplahsymptclSawlboylsahe.tp,lraul.tlnjtblxkl.mylabj
tz tumtjetl.abls.mylbutse.l.oplyhrrtutpcl.myl msklboylwaqtp,lxhs
jtqtus.tdtyyl.tlrtdslojloxahjpmjilytjytlarlutdmtrlojplytehumsk,ljab,
b.me.lutqtodtplsal.mwlmjlolptiuttlb.me.l.tl.opljaslrhddklo  utemostp
xtrautl.ablqoyslolbtmi.slarlputopl.oplxttjldkmjilh ajl.mwlymjetls.tlpok
.tldmrstpl.mylqametloiomjysls.mylxdaapk-wmjptplahseoysc

MjvhjlVat'ylxabmt-njmrtldokledaytlxk,lmsylxdoptlxuantjlmjlsbaclS.tliutos
rahjposmaj-xtowlarls.tlpaaul.oplxttjle.m  tplojpl.oentpls.uahi.,lbms.
stpmahyldoxau;lhytdtyyldoxau,lsaa,lmslboy,lrauls.tljosmqtluaenlrauwtplo
ymddlahsymptlms,lojplh ajls.oslyshxxaujlwostumodls.tlnjmrtl.oplbuahi.s
jaltrrtes;ls.tlajdklpowoitlpajtlboylsals.tlnjmrtlmsytdrclXhslmrls.tut
.oplxttjljalysajklaxysuhesmajls.tutls.tldoxaulbahdpl.oqtlxttjlhytdtyy
ysmdd,lraulmrls.tlxtowl.oplxttjlb.addklehsloboklMjvhjlVatleahdpljasl.oqt
yghttftpl.mylxapklhjptuls.tlpaau,lojpl.tlnjtblmsclYal.tl.oplajdkl.oentp
s.osl doetlmjlauptulsalxtlpamjilyawts.mji--mjlauptulsal oyyls.tlbtouk
smwt--mjlauptulsaltw dakl.mylsaushutplroehdsmtyclAupmjoumdklajtleahdp
rmjpl.odrlolpaftjlxmsylarleojpdtlyshenlouahjplmjls.tleutqmetylarls.my
qtysmxhdt,ldtrsls.tutlxklsahumysy;lxhsls.tutlbtutljajtljabclS.tl umyajtu
.oplytoue.tpls.twlahslojpltostjls.twcl.tl.oplodyaleajsumqtplsaleose.lo
rtblxosy,lojpls.tyt,lodya,l.tl.opltostj,ldtoqmjilajdkls.tmuledobyclS.t
 aaulhjraushjostl.oplysouqtplsalptos.clMjlajtl doet,ljtoulosl.ojp,lo
ysodoiwmstl.oplxttjlydabdkliuabmjilh lruawls.tliuahjplrauloity,lxhmdptp
xkls.tlbostu-pum lruawlolysodoesmstlaqtu.topclS.tleo smqtl.oplxuantjlarr
s.tlysodoiwmst,lojplh ajls.tlyshw l.opl doetplolysajt,lb.tutmjl.tl.op
yeaa tploly.oddabl.addablsaleose.ls.tl utemahylpua ls.oslrtddlajet
mjltqtukls.uttlwmjhstylbms.ls.tlputouklutihdoumsklarloledaen-smen--o
ptyytusy aajrhdlajetlmjlrahulojplsbtjskl.ahuyclS.oslpua lboylroddmji
b.tjls.tl kuowmpylbtutljtb;lb.tjlSuaklrtdd;lb.tjls.tlrahjposmajylarlUawt
btutldomp;lb.tjlE.umyslboyleuhemrmtp;lb.tjls.tlEajghtuauleutostpls.t
Xumsmy.ltw mut;lb.tjlEadhwxhylyomdtp;lb.tjls.tlwoyyoeutloslDtzmjisajlboy
“jtbyc”

Mslmylroddmjiljab;lmslbmddlysmddlxtlroddmjilb.tjloddls.tytls.mjiyly.odd
.oqtlyhjnlpabjls.tlorstujaajlarl.mysauk,lojpls.tlsbmdmi.slarlsuopmsmaj,
ojplxttjlyboddabtplh lmjls.tls.menljmi.slarlaxdmqmajcl.oyltqtuks.mjilo
 hu aytlojplolwmyymaj?lPmpls.mylpua lroddl osmtjsdklphumjilrmqtls.ahyojp
ktouylsalxtlutopklrauls.mylrdmssmjil.hwojlmjytes'yljttp?lojpl.oylms
ojas.tulmw ausojslaxvteslsaloeeaw dmy.lstjls.ahyojplktouylsaleawt?lJa
wosstuclMslmylwojklojplwojklolktoulymjetls.tl.o dtyyl.odr-xuttplyeaa tp
ahsls.tlysajtlsaleose.ls.tl umetdtyylpua y,lxhslsals.mylpokls.tlsahumys
ysoutyldajityslosls.osl os.tsmelysajtlojpls.oslydab-pua  mjilbostulb.tj
.tleawtylsalyttls.tlbajptuylarlWePahiod'yleoqtclMjvhjlVat'yleh lysojpy
rmuyslmjls.tldmyslarls.tleoqtuj'ylwouqtdy;ltqtjl“Odoppmj'yl odoet”
leojjaslumqodlmsc

MjvhjlVatlboylxhumtpljtouls.tlwahs.larls.tleoqt;lojpl ta dtlrdaentp
s.tutlmjlxaosylojplboiajylruawls.tlsabjylojplruawloddls.tlrouwylojp
.owdtsylraulytqtjlwmdtylouahjp;ls.tklxuahi.sls.tmule.mdputj,lojp
oddlyausylarl uaqmymajy,lojpleajrtyytpls.osls.tkl.opl.oplodwaysloy
yosmyroesauklolsmwtlosls.tlrhjtuodloyls.tkleahdpl.oqtl.oplosls.t
.ojimjic

S.mylrhjtuodlysa  tpls.tlrhus.tuliuabs.larlajtls.mji--s.tl tsmsmajlsals.t
iaqtujaulraulMjvhjlVat'yl oupajclS.tl tsmsmajl.oplxttjldouitdklymijtp;
wojklstourhdlojpltdaghtjslwttsmjiyl.oplxttjl.tdp,lojploleawwmssttlar
yo  klbawtjlxttjlo  amjstplsalialmjlptt lwahujmjilojplbomdlouahjpls.t
iaqtujau,lojplmw dautl.mwlsalxtlolwtuemrhdloyylojplsuow dtl.mylphsk
hjptulraasclMjvhjlVatlboylxtdmtqtplsal.oqtlnmddtplrmqtlemsmftjylarls.t
qmddoit,lxhslb.oslarls.os?lMrl.tl.oplxttjlYosojl.mwytdrls.tutlbahdp
.oqtlxttjl dtjsklarlbtondmjiylutopklsalyeumxxdtls.tmuljowtylsalo
 oupaj- tsmsmaj,lojplpum lolstoulajlmslruawls.tmul tuwojtjsdklmw omutp
ojpldtonklbostu-baunyc

S.tlwaujmjilorstuls.tlrhjtuodlSawlsaanl.henlsalol umqostl doetlsal.oqt
ojlmw ausojslsodncl.henl.opldtoujtploddloxahslSaw'ylopqtjshutlruawls.t
Btdy.wojlojpls.tlBmpablPahidoy,lxkls.mylsmwt,lxhslSawlyompl.tlutenajtp
s.tutlboylajtls.mjils.tkl.opljaslsadpl.mw;ls.osls.mjilboylb.osl.tlbojstp
salsodnloxahsljabcl.hen'ylroetlyopptjtpcl.tlyomp:

“Mlnjablb.oslmslmyclKahliaslmjsalJacl2lojpljtqtulrahjplojks.mjilxhs
b.myntkclJaxapklsadplwtlmslboylkah;lxhslMlvhyslnjabtplmslwhysl'o'lxtj
kah,lyaajloylMl.toupl'xahsls.oslb.myntklxhymjtyy;lojplMlnjabtplkah
.opj'sliasls.tlwajtklxtehflkah'pl'o'liasloslwtlyawtlboklaulas.tulojp
sadplwtltqtjlmrlkahlboylwhwlsaltqtukxapkltdytclSaw,lyawts.mji'ylodboky
sadplwtlbt'pljtqtulitsl.adslarls.oslyboic”

“B.k,l.hen,lMljtqtulsadplajls.oslsoqtuj-ntt tucl_Kah_lnjabl.mylsoqtuj
boyloddlumi.sls.tlYoshupoklMlbtjslsals.tl mejmeclPaj'slkahlutwtwxtulkah
boylsalbose.ls.tutls.osljmi.s?”

“A.lkty!lB.k,lmslyttwyl'xahslolktouloiaclMslboyls.oslqtukljmi.sls.oslM
raddtutplMjvhjlVatlsals.tlbmpptu'yc”

“_Kah_lraddabtpl.mw?”

“Kty--xhslkahlntt lwhwclMlutenajlMjvhjlVat'yldtrslrumtjpylxt.mjpl.mw,lojp
Mlpaj'slbojsl'twlyahumjilajlwtlojplpamjilwtlwtojlsumenyclMrlmsl.opj's
xtjlraulwtl.t'plxtlpabjlmjlStzoyljab,loddlumi.sc”

S.tjl.henlsadpl.myltjsmutlopqtjshutlmjleajrmptjetlsalSaw,lb.al.oplajdk
.touplarls.tlBtdy.woj'yl ouslarlmslxtrautc

“Btdd,”lyompl.hen,l utytjsdk,leawmjilxoenlsals.tlwomjlghtysmaj,l“b.atqtu
jm  tpls.tlb.myntklmjlJacl2,ljm  tpls.tlwajtk,lsaa,lMlutenaj--ojkboky
ms'yloliajtulraulhy,lSawc”

“.hen,ls.oslwajtklboyj'sltqtulmjlJacl2!”

“B.os!”l.henlytoue.tpl.myleawuopt'ylroetlnttjdkcl“Saw,l.oqtlkahliaslaj
s.tlsuoenlarls.oslwajtkloiomj?”

“.hen,lms'ylmjls.tleoqt!”

.hen'yltktylxdoftpc

“Yoklmsloiomj,lSawc”

“S.tlwajtk'ylmjls.tleoqt!”

“Saw--.ajtyslmjvhj,ljab--mylmslrhj,laultoujtys?”

“Toujtys,l.hen--vhysloyltoujtysloyltqtulMlboylmjlwkldmrtclBmddlkahlialmj
s.tutlbms.lwtlojpl.td litslmslahs?”

“MlxtslMlbmdd!lMlbmddlmrlms'ylb.tutlbtleojlxdoftlahulboklsalmslojpljas
itsldaysc”

“.hen,lbtleojlpals.oslbms.ahsls.tldtoysldmssdtlxmslarlsuahxdtlmjls.t
baudpc”

“Iaaploylb.tos!lB.oslwontylkahls.mjnls.tlwajtk'y--”

“.hen,lkahlvhyslbomslsmddlbtlitslmjls.tutclMrlbtlpaj'slrmjplmslM'dd
oiuttlsalimqtlkahlwklpuhwlojpltqtukls.mjilM'qtliaslmjls.tlbaudpclMlbmdd,
xklvmjiyc”

“Oddlumi.s--ms'ylolb.mfclB.tjlpalkahlyok?”

“Umi.sljab,lmrlkahlyoklmsclOutlkahlysuajiltjahi.?”

“Mylmslroulmjls.tleoqt?lMlxtjlajlwkl mjyloldmssdt,ls.uttlaulrahulpoky,
jab,lxhslMleoj'slbodnlwaut'jlolwmdt,lSaw--dtoyslMlpaj'sls.mjnlMleahdpc”

“Ms'yloxahslrmqtlwmdtlmjsals.tutls.tlboklojkxapklxhslwtlbahdplia,l.hen,
xhsls.tut'ylolwmi.skly.auslehsls.osls.tklpaj'slojkxapklxhslwtlnjab
oxahscl.hen,lM'ddlsontlkahlumi.slsalmslmjlolynmrrclM'ddlrdaosls.tlynmrr
pabjls.tut,lojplM'ddl hddlmslxoenloiomjloddlxklwkytdrclKahljttpj'sltqtu
shujlkahul.ojplaqtuc”

“Dtyylysouslumi.slarr,lSawc”

“Oddlumi.sclBtlbojslyawtlxutoplojplwtos,lojplahul m ty,lojploldmssdt
xoilaulsba,lojplsbalauls.uttlnmst-ysumjiy,lojplyawtlarls.tytljtb-rojidtp
s.mjiyls.tkleoddldhemrtulwose.tyclMlstddlkah,lwojk'yls.tlsmwtlMlbmy.tplM
.oplyawtlb.tjlMlboylmjls.tutlxtrautc”

Olsumrdtlorstuljaajls.tlxakylxauuabtplolywoddlynmrrlruawlolemsmftjlb.a
boyloxytjs,lojpliaslhjptulbokloslajetclB.tjls.tklbtutlytqtuodlwmdty
xtdabl“Eoqtl.addab,”lSawlyomp:

“Jablkahlyttls.mylxdhrrl.tutldaanyloddlodmntloddls.tlboklpabjlruawls.t
eoqtl.addab--jal.ahyty,ljalbaap-koupy,lxhy.tyloddlodmntclXhslpalkahlytt
s.oslb.mstl doetlh lkajptulb.tutls.tut'ylxttjloldojpydmpt?lBtdd,ls.os'y
ajtlarlwklwounyclBt'ddlitsloy.aut,ljabc”

S.tkldojptpc

“Jab,l.hen,lb.tutlbt'utlo-ysojpmjilkahleahdplsahe.ls.osl.adtlMliaslahs
arlbms.lolrmy.mji- adtclYttlmrlkahleojlrmjplmsc”

.henlytoue.tploddls.tl doetloxahs,lojplrahjpljas.mjiclSawl uahpdk
woue.tplmjsalols.menledhw larlyhwoe.lxhy.tylojplyomp:

“.tutlkahlout!lDaanloslms,l.hen;lms'yls.tlyjhiitysl.adtlmjls.myleahjsukc
Kahlvhyslntt lwhwloxahslmsclOddlodajilM'qtlxttjlbojsmjilsalxtloluaxxtu,
xhslMlnjtblM'pliaslsal.oqtlols.mjildmntls.my,lojplb.tutlsaluhjloeuayy
mslboyls.tlxas.tuclBt'qtliaslmsljab,lojplbt'ddlntt lmslghmts,lajdklbt'dd
dtslVatl.ou tulojplXtjlUaituylmj--xteohytlarleahuytls.tut'yliaslsalxtlo
Ioji,laultdytls.tutlbahdpj'slxtlojklyskdtloxahslmsclSawlYobktu'ylIoji--ms
yahjpyly dtjpmp,lpaj'slms,l.hen?”

“Btdd,lmslvhyslpaty,lSawclOjplb.a'ddlbtluax?”

“A.,lwayslojkxapkclBokdokl ta dt--s.os'ylwaysdkls.tlbokc”

“Ojplnmddls.tw?”

“Ja,ljaslodbokycl.mqtls.twlmjls.tleoqtlsmddls.tkluomytloluojyawc”

“B.os'yloluojyaw?”

“WajtkclKahlwontls.twluomytloddls.tkleoj,larr'jls.tmulrumtjpy;lojplorstu
kah'qtlnt sls.twlolktou,lmrlmslomj'sluomytpls.tjlkahlnmddls.twclS.os'y
s.tlitjtuodlbokclAjdklkahlpaj'slnmddls.tlbawtjclKahly.hslh ls.tlbawtj,
xhslkahlpaj'slnmddls.twclS.tk'utlodbokylxtohsmrhdlojplume.,lojplobrhddk
yeoutpclKahlsontls.tmulbose.tylojpls.mjiy,lxhslkahlodbokylsontlkahul.os
arrlojplsodnl admstclS.tklomj'slojkxapkloyl admstloyluaxxtuy--kah'ddlytt
s.oslmjlojklxaanclBtdd,ls.tlbawtjlitslsaldaqmjilkah,lojplorstuls.tk'qt
xttjlmjls.tleoqtlolbttnlaulsbalbttnyls.tklysa leukmjilojplorstuls.os
kahleahdpj'slitsls.twlsaldtoqtclMrlkahlpuaqtls.twlahsls.tk'plshujlumi.s
ouahjplojpleawtlxoenclMs'ylyalmjloddls.tlxaanyc”

“B.k,lms'ylutodlxhddk,lSawclMlxtdmtqtlms'ylxtsstu'jlsalxtlol muostc”

“Kty,lms'ylxtsstulmjlyawtlboky,lxteohytlms'yledaytlsal.awtlojplemuehyty
ojploddls.osc”

Xkls.mylsmwtltqtuks.mjilboylutopklojpls.tlxakyltjstutpls.tl.adt,lSawlmj
s.tldtopclS.tklsamdtpls.tmulboklsals.tlrous.tultjplarls.tlshjjtd,ls.tj
woptls.tmuly dmetplnmst-ysumjiylroyslojplwaqtplajclOlrtblyst ylxuahi.s
s.twlsals.tly umji,lojplSawlrtdsloly.hpptulghmqtuloddls.uahi.l.mwc
.tly.abtpl.henls.tlruoiwtjslarleojpdt-bmenl tue.tplajloldhw larledok
oiomjysls.tlbodd,lojplptyeumxtpl.abl.tlojplXtenkl.oplbose.tpls.tlrdowt
ysuhiidtlojpltz mutc

S.tlxakylxtiojlsalghmtslpabjlsalb.my tuy,ljab,lrauls.tlysmddjtyylojp
idaawlarls.tl doetla  utyytpls.tmuly mumsyclS.tklbtjslaj,lojpl utytjsdk
tjstutplojplraddabtplSaw'ylas.tuleauumpaulhjsmdls.tklutoe.tpls.t
“vhw mji-arrl doetc”lS.tleojpdtylutqtodtpls.tlroesls.oslmslboyljas
utoddklol utem met,lxhslajdklolystt ledokl.mddlsbtjsklauls.musklrtts
.mi.clSawlb.my tutp:

“JablM'ddly.ablkahlyawts.mji,l.henc”

.tl.tdpl.myleojpdtlodarslojplyomp:

“Daanloylroulouahjpls.tleaujtuloylkahleojclPalkahlyttls.os?lS.tut--ajls.t
xmiluaenlaqtulkajptu--pajtlbms.leojpdt-ywantc”

“Saw,lms'ylol_euayy_!”

“_Jab_lb.tut'ylkahulJhwxtulSba?l'_hjptuls.tleuayy_,'l.tk?lUmi.slkajptu'y
b.tutlMlyoblMjvhjlVatl antlh l.myleojpdt,l.hen!”

.henlysoutplosls.tlwkysmelymijlob.mdt,lojpls.tjlyomplbms.loly.onklqamet:

“Saw,ldtyylimslahslarl.tut!”

“B.os!lojpldtoqtls.tlsutoyhut?”

“Kty--dtoqtlmsclMjvhjlVat'yli.ayslmyluahjploxahsls.tut,letusomjc”

“Jalmslomj's,l.hen,ljalmslomj'sclMslbahdpl.o'jsls.tl doetlb.tutl.t
pmtp--oboklahslosls.tlwahs.larls.tleoqt--rmqtlwmdtlruawl.tutc”

“Ja,lSaw,lmslbahdpj'sclMslbahdpl.ojiluahjpls.tlwajtkclMlnjabls.tlbokylar
i.aysy,lojplyalpalkahc”

Sawlxtiojlsalrtouls.osl.henlboylumi.sclWmy-imqmjiylios.tutplmjl.mylwmjpc
Xhsl utytjsdklojlmptolaeehuutplsal.mw--

“Daank.tut,l.hen,lb.oslraadylbt'utlwonmjilarlahuytdqty!lMjvhjlVat'y
i.ayslomj'sloliamjilsaleawtlouahjplb.tutls.tut'yloleuayy!”

S.tl amjslboylbtddlsontjclMsl.oplmsyltrrtesc

“Saw,lMlpmpj'sls.mjnlarls.osclXhsls.os'ylyaclMs'yldhenlraulhy,ls.os
euayylmyclMlutenajlbt'ddledmwxlpabjls.tutlojpl.oqtlol.hjslrauls.oslxazc”

Sawlbtjslrmuys,lehssmjiluhptlyst ylmjls.tledokl.mddloyl.tlptyetjptpc
.henlraddabtpclRahuloqtjhtyla tjtplahslarls.tlywoddleoqtujlb.me.ls.t
iutosluaenlysaaplmjclS.tlxakyltzowmjtpls.uttlarls.twlbms.ljalutyhdsc
S.tklrahjplolywoddlutetyylmjls.tlajtljtoutysls.tlxoytlarls.tluaen,lbms.
ol oddtslarlxdojntsyly utoplpabjlmjlms;lodyalojladplyhy tjptu,lyawt
xoeajlumjp,lojpls.tlbtdd-ijobtplxajtylarlsbalauls.uttlrabdyclXhsls.tut
boyljalwajtkxazclS.tldopylytoue.tplojplutytoue.tpls.myl doet,lxhslmj
qomjclSawlyomp:

“.tlyompl_hjptu_ls.tleuayyclBtdd,ls.myleawtyljtoutyslsalxtmjilhjptuls.t
euayyclMsleoj'slxtlhjptuls.tluaenlmsytdr,lxteohytls.oslytsylyadmplajls.t
iuahjpc”

S.tklytoue.tpltqtukb.tutlajetlwaut,lojpls.tjlyoslpabjlpmyeahuoitpcl.hen
eahdplyhiitysljas.mjiclXk-ojp-xklSawlyomp:

“Daank.tut,l.hen,ls.tut'ylraas umjsylojplyawtleojpdt-iutoytlajls.tledok
oxahslajtlymptlarls.myluaen,lxhsljaslajls.tlas.tulymptyclJab,lb.os'y
s.oslrau?lMlxtslkahls.tlwajtkl_my_lhjptuls.tluaenclM'wliamjilsalpmilmj
s.tledokc”

“S.oslomj'sljalxopljasmaj,lSaw!”lyompl.henlbms.lojmwosmajc

Saw'yl“utodlXoudab”lboylahsloslajet,lojpl.tl.opljaslphilrahulmje.ty
xtrautl.tlysuhenlbaapc

“.tk,l.hen!--kahl.touls.os?”

.henlxtiojlsalpmilojplyeuose.ljabclYawtlxaoupylbtutlyaajlhjeaqtutplojp
utwaqtpclS.tkl.opleajetodtploljoshuodle.oywlb.me.ldtplhjptuls.tluaenc
Sawliaslmjsals.mylojpl.tdpl.myleojpdtloylroulhjptuls.tluaenloyl.t
eahdp,lxhslyompl.tleahdpljaslyttlsals.tltjplarls.tlumrscl.tl ua aytp
saltz dautcl.tlysaa tplojpl oyytplhjptu;ls.tljouuablboklptyetjptp
iuophoddkcl.tlraddabtplmsylbmjpmjileahuyt,lrmuyslsals.tlumi.s,ls.tjlsa
s.tldtrs,l.henlosl.myl.ttdyclSawlshujtploly.auslehuqt,lxk-ojp-xk,lojp
tzedomwtp:

“Wkliaapjtyy,l.hen,ldaank.tut!”

Mslboyls.tlsutoyhut-xaz,lyhutltjahi.,laeeh kmjilolyjhildmssdtleoqtuj,
odajilbms.lojltw skl abptu-nti,loleah dtlarlihjylmjldtos.tuleoyty,lsba
auls.uttl omuylarladplwaeeoymjy,loldtos.tulxtds,lojplyawtlas.tuluhxxmy.
btddlyaontplbms.ls.tlbostu-pum c

“Iaslmslosldoys!”lyompl.hen,l dahi.mjilowajils.tlsoujmy.tpleamjylbms.
.myl.ojpcl“Wk,lxhslbt'utlume.,lSaw!”

“.hen,lMlodbokylutenajtplbt'plitslmsclMs'ylvhyslsaaliaaplsalxtdmtqt,lxhs
btl_.oqt_liaslms,lyhut!lYok--dts'yljaslraadlouahjpl.tutclDts'ylyjontlms
ahsclDtwwtlyttlmrlMleojldmrsls.tlxazc”

Mslbtmi.tploxahslrmrskl ahjpyclSawleahdpldmrslms,lorstulojlobnboup
roy.maj,lxhsleahdpljasleouuklmsleajqtjmtjsdkc

“Mls.ahi.slya,”l.tlyomp;l“_S.tk_leouumtplmsldmntlmslboyl.toqk,ls.oslpok
osls.tl.o'jstpl.ahytclMljasmetpls.osclMlutenajlMlboylumi.slsals.mjnlar
rtse.mjils.tldmssdtlxoiylodajic”

S.tlwajtklboylyaajlmjls.tlxoiylojpls.tlxakylsaanlmslh lsals.tleuayy
uaenc

“Jabldtyylrtse.ls.tlihjylojpls.mjiy,”lyompl.henc

“Ja,l.hen--dtoqtls.twls.tutclS.tk'utlvhysls.tlsumenylsal.oqtlb.tjlbt
ialsaluaxxmjiclBt'ddlntt ls.twls.tutloddls.tlsmwt,lojplbt'ddl.adplahu
auimtyls.tut,lsaaclMs'ylojlobrhdlyjhil doetlraulauimtyc”

“B.oslauimty?”

“MlpajaclXhsluaxxtuylodbokyl.oqtlauimty,lojplarleahuytlbt'qtliaslsa
.oqtls.tw,lsaaclEawtlodaji,l.hen,lbt'qtlxttjlmjl.tutloldajilsmwtclMs'y
itssmjildost,lMlutenajclM'wl.hjiuk,lsaaclBt'ddltoslojplywantlb.tjlbtlits
sals.tlynmrrc”

S.tkl utytjsdkltwtuitplmjsals.tledhw larlyhwoe.lxhy.ty,ldaantplboumdk
ahs,lrahjpls.tleaoysledtou,lojplbtutlyaajldhje.mjilojplywanmjilmjls.t
ynmrrclOyls.tlyhjlpm  tplsaboupls.tl.aumfajls.tkl hy.tplahslojplias
hjptulbokclSawlynmwwtplh ls.tly.autls.uahi.ls.tldajilsbmdmi.s,le.ossmji
e.ttumdklbms.l.hen,lojpldojptply.ausdklorstulpounc

“Jab,l.hen,”lyomplSaw,l“bt'ddl.mptls.tlwajtklmjls.tldarslarls.tlbmpab'y
baapy.tp,lojplM'ddleawtlh lmjls.tlwaujmjilojplbt'ddleahjslmslojplpmqmpt,
ojpls.tjlbt'ddl.hjslh lol doetlahslmjls.tlbaapylraulmslb.tutlmslbmddlxt
yortclVhyslkahldoklghmtsl.tutlojplbose.ls.tlyshrrlsmddlMluhjlojpl.aan
XtjjklSokdau'yldmssdtlboiaj;lMlbaj'slxtliajtlolwmjhstc”

.tlpmyo  toutp,lojpl utytjsdklutshujtplbms.ls.tlboiaj,l hsls.tlsbalywodd
yoenylmjsalms,ls.utblyawtladpluoiylajlsa larls.tw,lojplysoustplarr,
puoiimjil.myleouialxt.mjpl.mwclB.tjls.tlxakylutoe.tpls.tlBtdy.woj'y
.ahyt,ls.tklysa  tplsalutysclVhysloyls.tklbtutloxahslsalwaqtlaj,ls.t
Btdy.wojlyst  tplahslojplyomp:

“.odda,lb.a'yls.os?”

“.henlojplSawlYobktuc”

“Iaap!lEawtlodajilbms.lwt,lxaky,lkahloutlntt mjiltqtukxapklbomsmjic
.tut--.huuklh ,lsuaslo.top--M'ddl.ohdls.tlboiajlraulkahclB.k,lms'yljasloy
dmi.sloylmslwmi.slxtclIaslxumenylmjlms?--auladplwtsod?”

“Adplwtsod,”lyomplSawc

“Mlvhpitplya;ls.tlxakylmjls.mylsabjlbmddlsontlwautlsuahxdtlojplraadlobok
wautlsmwtl.hjsmjilh lymzlxmsy'lbaus.larladplmuajlsalytddlsals.tlrahjpuk
s.ojls.tklbahdplsalwontlsbmetls.tlwajtkloslutihdoulbaunclXhsls.os'y
.hwojljoshut--.huuklodaji,l.huuklodaji!”

S.tlxakylbojstplsalnjablb.osls.tl.huuklboyloxahsc

“Jtqtulwmjp;lkah'ddlytt,lb.tjlbtlitslsals.tlBmpablPahidoy'c”

.henlyomplbms.lyawtlo  ut.tjymaj--raul.tlboyldajilhytplsalxtmjilrodytdk
oeehytp:

“WuclVajty,lbtl.oqtj'slxttjlpamjiljas.mjic”

S.tlBtdy.wojldohi.tpc

“Btdd,lMlpaj'slnjab,l.hen,lwklxakclMlpaj'slnjabloxahsls.osclOmj'slkah
ojpls.tlbmpabliaaplrumtjpy?”

“KtyclBtdd,ly.t'ylxtjliaaplrumtjpylsalwt,lojkbokc”

“Oddlumi.s,ls.tjclB.oslpalkahlbojslsalxtloruomplrau?”

S.mylghtysmajlboyljasltjsmutdklojybtutplmjl.hen'ylydablwmjplxtrautl.t
rahjpl.mwytdrl hy.tp,lodajilbms.lSaw,lmjsalWuyclPahidoy'lpuobmji-uaawc
WuclVajtyldtrsls.tlboiajljtouls.tlpaaulojplraddabtpc

S.tl doetlboyliuojpdkldmi.stp,lojpltqtukxapkls.oslboylarlojkleajytghtjet
mjls.tlqmddoitlboyls.tutclS.tlS.ose.tuylbtutls.tut,ls.tl.ou tuy,ls.t
Uaituyty,lOhjsl addk,lYmp,lWouk,ls.tlwmjmystu,ls.tltpmsau,lojploliutos
wojklwaut,lojploddlputyytplmjls.tmulxtysclS.tlbmpablutetmqtpls.tlxaky
oyl.tousmdkloylojklajtleahdplbtddlutetmqtlsbalyhe.ldaanmjilxtmjiyclS.tk
btutleaqtutplbms.ledoklojpleojpdt-iutoytclOhjsl addklxdhy.tpleumwyaj
bms.l.hwmdmosmaj,lojplruabjtplojply.aanl.tul.toploslSawclJaxapklyhrrtutp
.odrloylwhe.loyls.tlsbalxakylpmp,l.abtqtuclWuclVajtylyomp:

“Sawlboyj'slosl.awt,lkts,lyalMlioqtl.mwlh ;lxhslMlyshwxdtplajl.mwlojp
.henlumi.sloslwklpaau,lojplyalMlvhyslxuahi.sls.twlodajilmjlol.huukc”

“Ojplkahlpmplvhyslumi.s,”lyompls.tlbmpabcl“Eawtlbms.lwt,lxakyc”

Y.tlsaanls.twlsalolxtpe.owxtulojplyomp:

“Jablboy.lojplputyylkahuytdqtycl.tutloutlsbaljtblyhmsylar
edas.ty--y.musy,lyaeny,ltqtuks.mjileaw dtstclS.tk'utl.hen'y--ja,lja
s.ojny,l.hen--WuclVajtylxahi.slajtlojplMls.tlas.tuclXhsls.tk'ddlrmslxas.
arlkahclItslmjsals.twclBt'ddlboms--eawtlpabjlb.tjlkahloutlydmentplh 
tjahi.c”

S.tjly.tldtrsc




E.O STUlZZZMQ

.HENlyomp:l“Saw,lbtleojlyda t,lmrlbtleojlrmjplolua tclS.tlbmjpablomj's
.mi.lruawls.tliuahjpc”

“Y.heny!lb.oslpalkahlbojslsalyda tlrau?”

“Btdd,lMlomj'slhytplsals.oslnmjplarloleuabpclMleoj'slysojplmsclMlomj's
iamjilpabjls.tut,lSawc”

“A.,lxas.tu!lMslomj'slojks.mjiclMlpaj'slwmjplmslolxmsclM'ddlsontleoutlar
kahc”

Ymplo  toutpc

“Saw,”lyompl.t,l“ohjsmtl.oylxttjlbomsmjilraulkahloddls.tlorstujaajclWouk
iaslkahulYhjpokledas.tylutopk,lojpltqtukxapk'ylxttjlrutssmjiloxahslkahc
Yok--omj'sls.myliutoytlojpledok,lajlkahuledas.ty?”

“Jab,lWuclYmppk,lkahlvmysl'stjplsalkahulabjlxhymjtyyclB.os'yloddls.my
xdabahsloxahs,lojkbok?”

“Ms'ylajtlarls.tlbmpab'yl ousmtyls.osly.t'ylodbokyl.oqmjiclS.mylsmwt
ms'ylrauls.tlBtdy.wojlojpl.mylyajy,lajloeeahjslarls.oslyeuo tls.tk
.td tpl.tulahslarls.tlas.tuljmi.sclOjplyok--Mleojlstddlkahlyawts.mji,lmr
kahlbojslsalnjabc”

“Btdd,lb.os?”

“B.k,ladplWuclVajtylmyliamjilsalsuklsaly umjilyawts.mjilajls.tl ta dt
.tutlsajmi.s,lxhslMlaqtu.toupl.mwlstddlohjsmtlsapokloxahslms,loylo
yteuts,lxhslMlutenajlms'yljaslwhe.larlolyteutsljabclTqtukxapklnjaby--s.t
bmpab,lsaa,lrauloddly.tlsumtylsaldtslajly.tlpaj'sclWuclVajtylboylxahjp
.henly.ahdplxtl.tut--eahdpj'slitslodajilbms.l.myliuojplyteutslbms.ahs
.hen,lkahlnjab!”

“Yteutsloxahslb.os,lYmp?”

“Oxahsl.henlsuoenmjils.tluaxxtuylsals.tlbmpab'yclMlutenajlWuclVajtylboy
iamjilsalwontloliuojplsmwtlaqtul.mylyhu umyt,lxhslMlxtslkahlmslbmddlpua 
 utssklrdosc”

Ymple.hendtplmjlolqtukleajstjstplojplyosmyrmtplbokc

“Ymp,lboylmslkahls.oslsadp?”

“A.,ljtqtulwmjplb.almslboycl_Yawtxapk_lsadp--s.os'yltjahi.c”

“Ymp,ls.tut'ylajdklajtl tuyajlmjls.mylsabjlwtojltjahi.lsalpals.os,lojp
s.os'ylkahclMrlkahl.oplxttjlmjl.hen'yl doetlkah'pl'o'lyjtontplpabjls.t
.mddlojpljtqtulsadplojkxapklajls.tluaxxtuyclKahleoj'slpalojklxhslwtoj
s.mjiy,lojplkahleoj'slxtoulsalyttlojkxapkl uomytplraulpamjiliaaplajtyc
S.tut--jals.ojny,loyls.tlbmpablyoky”--ojplSawlehrrtplYmp'yltouylojpl.td tp
.mwlsals.tlpaaulbms.lytqtuodlnmenycl“Jablialojplstddlohjsmtlmrlkah
pout--ojplsawauuablkah'ddleose.lms!”

Yawtlwmjhstyldostuls.tlbmpab'ylihtysylbtutlosls.tlyh  tu-soxdt,lojplo
paftjle.mdputjlbtutl ua  tplh losldmssdtlympt-soxdtylmjls.tlyowtluaaw,
orstuls.tlroy.majlarls.osleahjsuklojpls.oslpokclOsls.tl ua tulsmwtlWuc
Vajtylwoptl.myldmssdtly tte.,lmjlb.me.l.tls.ojntpls.tlbmpablrauls.t
.ajauly.tlboylpamjil.mwytdrlojpl.mylyajy,lxhslyompls.osls.tutlboy
ojas.tul tuyajlb.aytlwaptysk--

Ojplyalraus.lojplyalajcl.tly uhjil.mylyteutsloxahsl.hen'yly.outlmj
s.tlopqtjshutlmjls.tlrmjtyslpuowosmelwojjtul.tlboylwoystular,lxhsls.t
yhu umytlmslaeeoymajtplboyldouitdkleahjsturtmslojpljasloyledowauahylojp
trrhymqtloylmslwmi.sl.oqtlxttjlhjptul.o  mtulemuehwysojetycl.abtqtu,
s.tlbmpablwoptlol utssklromuly.ablarloysajmy.wtjs,lojpl.to tplyalwojk
eaw dmwtjsylojplyalwhe.liuosmshptlh ajl.henls.osl.tlodwayslrauias
s.tljtoudklmjsadtuoxdtlpmyeawrauslarl.myljtbledas.tylmjls.tltjsmutdk
mjsadtuoxdtlpmyeawrauslarlxtmjilytslh loylolsouitslraultqtukxapk'ylioft
ojpltqtukxapk'yldohposmajyc

S.tlbmpablyomply.tlwtojslsalimqtl.henlol.awtlhjptul.tuluaarlojpl.oqtl.mw
tpheostp;lojpls.oslb.tjly.tleahdply outls.tlwajtkly.tlbahdplysousl.mwlmj
xhymjtyylmjlolwaptyslbokclSaw'yle.ojetlboyleawtcl.tlyomp:

“.henlpaj'sljttplmscl.hen'ylume.c”

Jas.mjilxhslol.toqklysuomjlh ajls.tliaaplwojjtuylarls.tleaw ojklnt s
xoenls.tlphtlojpl ua tuleaw dmwtjsoukldohi.losls.myl dtoyojslvantclXhs
s.tlymdtjetlboyloldmssdtlobnboupclSawlxuantlms:

“.hen'yliaslwajtkclWokxtlkahlpaj'slxtdmtqtlms,lxhsl.t'yliasldasylarlmsc
A.,lkahljttpj'slywmdt--MlutenajlMleojly.ablkahclKahlvhyslbomslolwmjhstc”

SawluojlahslarlpaauyclS.tleaw ojkldaantplosltoe.las.tulbms.lol tu dtztp
mjstutys--ojplmjghmumjidklosl.hen,lb.alboylsajiht-smtpc

“Ymp,lb.oslomdylSaw?”lyomplOhjsl addkcl“.t--btdd,ls.tutlomj'sltqtulojk
wonmjilarls.oslxaklahsclMljtqtu--”

Sawltjstutp,lysuhiidmjilbms.ls.tlbtmi.slarl.mylyoeny,lojplOhjsl addk
pmpljaslrmjmy.l.tulytjstjetclSawl ahutpls.tlwoyylarlktddableamjlh ajls.t
soxdtlojplyomp:

“S.tut--b.oslpmplMlstddlkah?l.odrlarlms'yl.hen'ylojpl.odrlarlms'ylwmjt!”

S.tly tesoedtlsaanls.tlitjtuodlxutos.lobokclOddlioftp,ljaxapkly antlrau
olwawtjsclS.tjls.tutlboylolhjojmwahyleoddlraulojltz dojosmajclSawlyomp
.tleahdplrhujmy.lms,lojpl.tlpmpclS.tlsodtlboyldaji,lxhslxumwrhdlar
mjstutysclS.tutlboylyeouetdklojlmjstuuh smajlruawlojklajtlsalxutonls.t
e.ouwlarlmsylrdabclB.tjl.tl.oplrmjmy.tp,lWuclVajtylyomp:

“Mls.ahi.slMl.oplrmztplh loldmssdtlyhu umytlrauls.mylaeeoymaj,lxhslms
paj'slowahjslsalojks.mjiljabclS.mylajtlwontylmslymjilwmi.sklywodd,lM'w
bmddmjilsaloddabc”

S.tlwajtklboyleahjstpclS.tlyhwlowahjstplsaloldmssdtlaqtulsbtdqtls.ahyojp
paddouyclMslboylwautls.ojlojklajtl utytjsl.opltqtulyttjloslajtlsmwt
xtraut,ls.ahi.lytqtuodl tuyajylbtutls.tutlb.albtutlbaus.leajymptuoxdk
wautls.ojls.oslmjl ua tuskc




E.O STUlZZZQ

S.Tlutoptulwoklutyslyosmyrmtpls.oslSaw'ylojpl.hen'ylbmjproddlwoptlo
wmi.sklysmulmjls.tl aauldmssdtlqmddoitlarlYscl tstuyxhuiclYalqoyslo
yhw,loddlmjloeshodleoy.,lyttwtpljtzslsalmjeutpmxdtclMslboylsodntp
oxahs,lidaostplaqtu,lidaumrmtp,lhjsmdls.tlutoyajlarlwojklarls.tlemsmftjy
sasstutplhjptuls.tlysuomjlarls.tlhj.tods.kltzemstwtjsclTqtukl“.ohjstp”
l.ahytlmjlYscl tstuyxhuilojpls.tljtmi.xaumjilqmddoitylboylpmyytestp,
 dojnlxkl dojn,lojplmsylrahjposmajylphilh lojpluojyoentplraul.mpptj
sutoyhut--ojpljaslxklxaky,lxhslwtj-- utsskliuoqt,lhjuawojsmelwtj,lsaa,
yawtlarls.twclB.tutqtulSawlojpl.henlo  toutpls.tklbtutleahustp,lopwmutp,
ysoutplosclS.tlxakylbtutljasloxdtlsalutwtwxtuls.osls.tmulutwounyl.op
 ayytyytplbtmi.slxtraut;lxhsljabls.tmulyokmjiylbtutlsutoyhutplojp
ut tostp;ltqtuks.mjils.tklpmplyttwtplyawt.ablsalxtlutiouptploy
utwounoxdt;ls.tkl.opltqmptjsdkldaysls.tl abtularlpamjilojplyokmji
eawwaj doetls.mjiy;lwautaqtu,ls.tmul oysl.mysauklboyluontplh lojp
pmyeaqtutplsalxtoulwounylarleajy mehahylaumimjodmskclS.tlqmddoitl o tu
 hxdmy.tplxmaiuo .meodlyntse.tylarls.tlxakyc

S.tlBmpablPahidoyl hsl.hen'ylwajtklahsloslymzl tuletjsc,lojplVhpit
S.ose.tulpmpls.tlyowtlbms.lSaw'yloslOhjsl addk'ylutghtysclToe.ldopl.op
ojlmjeawt,ljab,ls.oslboylymw dkl uapmimahy--olpaddoulraultqtuklbttnpoklmj
s.tlktoulojpl.odrlarls.tlYhjpokyclMslboylvhyslb.osls.tlwmjmystulias--ja,
mslboylb.osl.tlboyl uawmytp--.tlitjtuoddkleahdpj'sleaddteslmsclOlpaddou
ojplolghoustulolbttnlbahdplxaoup,ldapit,lojplye.aadlolxaklmjls.aytladp
ymw dtlpoky--ojpledas.tl.mwlojplboy.l.mw,lsaa,lrauls.oslwosstuc

VhpitlS.ose.tul.opleajetmqtploliutosla mjmajlarlSawcl.tlyompls.oslja
eawwaj doetlxaklbahdpltqtul.oqtliasl.mylpohi.stulahslarls.tleoqtclB.tj
Xtenklsadpl.tulros.tu,lmjlysumesleajrmptjet,l.ablSawl.oplsontjl.tu
b.m  mjiloslye.aad,ls.tlVhpitlboylqmymxdklwaqtp;lojplb.tjly.tl dtoptp
iuoetlrauls.tlwmi.skldmtlb.me.lSawl.oplsadplmjlauptulsaly.mrsls.os
b.m  mjilruawl.tuly.ahdptuylsal.mylabj,ls.tlVhpitlyomplbms.lolrmjt
ahsxhuysls.oslmslboyloljaxdt,lolitjtuahy,lolwoijojmwahyldmt--oldmtls.os
boylbaus.klsal.adplh lmsyl.toplojplwoue.lpabjls.uahi.l.mysauklxutoyslsa
xutoyslbms.lItauitlBoy.mjisaj'yldohptplSuhs.loxahsls.tl.ose.ts!lXtenk
s.ahi.sl.tulros.tul.opljtqtuldaantplyalsoddlojplyalyh tuxloylb.tjl.t
bodntpls.tlrdaaulojplysow tpl.mylraaslojplyompls.osclY.tlbtjslysuomi.s
arrlojplsadplSawloxahslmsc

VhpitlS.ose.tul.a tplsalyttlSawloliutosldobktulauloliutoslyadpmtulyawt
pokcl.tlyompl.tlwtojslsaldaanlsalmsls.oslSawly.ahdplxtlopwmsstplsals.t
JosmajodlWmdmsouklOeoptwklojplorstubouplsuomjtplmjls.tlxtysldoblye.aad
mjls.tleahjsuk,lmjlauptuls.osl.tlwmi.slxtlutopklraultms.tuleouttulau
xas.c

.henlRmjj'ylbtods.lojpls.tlroesls.osl.tlboyljablhjptuls.tlBmpablPahidoy'
 uastesmajlmjsuaphetpl.mwlmjsalyaemtsk--ja,lpuoiitpl.mwlmjsalms,l.hudtp
.mwlmjsalms--ojpl.mylyhrrtumjiylbtutlodwayslwautls.ojl.tleahdplxtouclS.t
bmpab'ylytuqojsylnt sl.mwledtojlojpljtos,leawxtplojplxuhy.tp,lojpls.tk
xtpptpl.mwljmi.sdklmjlhjykw os.tsmely.ttsyls.osl.opljaslajtldmssdtly as
aulysomjlb.me.l.tleahdpl utyylsal.myl.touslojplnjablraulolrumtjpcl.tl.op
saltoslbms.lolnjmrtlojplraun;l.tl.oplsalhytljo nmj,leh ,lojpl dost;
.tl.oplsaldtoujl.mylxaan,l.tl.oplsalialsale.hue.;l.tl.oplsalsodnlya
 ua tudkls.osly tte.lboylxteawtlmjym mplmjl.mylwahs.;lb.ms.tuyatqtul.t
shujtp,ls.tlxouylojply.oendtylarlemqmdmfosmajly.hsl.mwlmjlojplxahjpl.mw
.ojplojplraasc

.tlxuoqtdklxautl.mylwmytumtyls.uttlbttny,lojpls.tjlajtlpoklshujtplh 
wmyymjiclRaulrausk-tmi.sl.ahuyls.tlbmpabl.hjstplraul.mwltqtukb.tutlmj
iutoslpmysutyyclS.tl hxdmelbtutl uarahjpdkleajetujtp;ls.tklytoue.tpl.mi.
ojpldab,ls.tklpuoiitpls.tlumqtulraul.mylxapkclToudkls.tls.muplwaujmji
SawlYobktulbmytdklbtjsl anmjilowajilyawtladpltw skl.aiy.topylpabjlxt.mjp
s.tloxojpajtplydohi.stu-.ahyt,lojplmjlajtlarls.twl.tlrahjpls.tlutrhittc
.henl.oplydt sls.tut;l.tl.oplvhyslxutonroystplh ajlyawtlysadtjlappylojp
tjpylarlraap,lojplboyldkmjilarr,ljab,lmjleawraus,lbms.l.myl m tcl.tlboy
hjntw s,lhjeawxtp,lojpledoplmjls.tlyowtladpluhmjlarluoiyls.osl.oplwopt
.mwl meshutyghtlmjls.tlpokylb.tjl.tlboylruttlojpl.o  kclSawluahstpl.mw
ahs,lsadpl.mwls.tlsuahxdtl.tl.oplxttjleohymji,lojplhuitpl.mwlsalial.awtc
.hen'ylroetldayslmsylsuojghmdleajstjs,lojplsaanlolwtdoje.adkleoyscl.t
yomp:

“Paj'slsodnloxahslms,lSawclM'qtlsumtplms,lojplmslpaj'slbaun;lmslpaj's
baun,lSawclMslomj'slraulwt;lMlomj'slhytplsalmsclS.tlbmpptu'yliaaplsalwt,
ojplrumtjpdk;lxhslMleoj'slysojpls.twlbokyclY.tlwontylwtlitslh lvhys
osls.tlyowtlsmwtltqtuklwaujmji;ly.tlwontylwtlboy.,ls.tkleawxlwtlodd
sals.hjptu;ly.tlbaj'sldtslwtlydtt lmjls.tlbaapy.tp;lMliaslsalbtouls.tw
xdowtpledas.tyls.oslvhyslywas.tuylwt,lSaw;ls.tklpaj'slyttwlsalojklomu
imsls.uahi.l'tw,lyawt.ab;lojpls.tk'utlyaluasstjljmetls.oslMleoj's
ytslpabj,ljauldoklpabj,ljauluaddlouahjplojkb.tu'y;lMl.omj'slydmplajlo
etddou-paaulrau--btdd,lmsl' touylsalxtlktouy;lMliaslsalialsale.hue.
ojplybtoslojplybtos--Ml.ostls.twlaujtuklytuwajy!lMleoj'slntse.lolrdklmj
s.tut,lMleoj'sle.obclMliaslsalbtouly.atyloddlYhjpokclS.tlbmpptultosylxk
olxtdd;ly.tliatylsalxtplxklolxtdd;ly.tlimsylh lxklolxtdd--tqtuks.mji'ylya
obrhdluti'doulolxapkleoj'slysojplmsc”

“Btdd,ltqtukxapklpatyls.oslbok,l.henc”

“Saw,lmslpaj'slwontljalpmrrtutjetclMlomj'sltqtukxapk,lojplMleoj's
_ysojp_lmsclMs'ylobrhdlsalxtlsmtplh lyaclOjpliuhxleawtylsaaltoyk--Mlpaj's
sontljalmjstutyslmjlqmssdty,ls.oslbokclMliaslsaloynlsalialo-rmy.mji;
Mliaslsaloynlsalialmjlo-ybmwwmji--ptuj'plmrlMl.omj'sliaslsaloynlsalpa
tqtuks.mjiclBtdd,lM'pliaslsalsodnlyaljmetlmslboyj'sljaleawraus--M'plias
salialh lmjls.tlossmelojplum lahslob.mdt,ltqtuklpok,lsalimslolsoyst
mjlwklwahs.,laulM'plolpmtp,lSawclS.tlbmpptulbahdpj'sldtslwtlywant;
y.tlbahdpj'sldtslwtlktdd,ly.tlbahdpj'sldtslwtlio t,ljaulysutse.,ljau
yeuose.,lxtrautlradny--”l[S.tjlbms.loly oywlarly temodlmuumsosmajlojp
mjvhuk]--“Ojplpoplrtse.lms,ly.tl uoktploddls.tlsmwt!lMljtqtulyttlyhe.lo
bawoj!lMl_.op_lsaly.aqt,lSaw--Mlvhysl.oplsaclOjplxtympty,ls.oslye.aad'y
iamjilsala tj,lojplM'plol.oplsalialsalms--btdd,lMlbahdpj'slysojpl_s.os_,
SawclDaank-.tut,lSaw,lxtmjilume.lomj'slb.oslms'yleuoentplh lsalxtclMs'y
vhyslbauuklojplbauuk,lojplybtoslojplybtos,lojplo-bmy.mjilkahlboylptop
oddls.tlsmwtclJabls.tytledas.tylyhmsylwt,lojpls.mylxou'dlyhmsylwt,lojp
Mlomj'sltqtuliamjilsaly.ontl'twlojklwautclSaw,lMlbahdpj'sltqtuliaslmjsa
oddls.mylsuahxdtlmrlmsl.opj'sl'o'lxtjlrauls.oslwajtk;ljablkahlvhyslsont
wkly.ttularlmslodajilbms.lkahu'j,lojplimwwtlolstj-etjstulyawtsmwty--jas
wojklsmwty,lxtehflMlpaj'slimqtlolptujlraulols.mjil's.ahslms'ylsaddoxdt
.ouplsalims--ojplkahlialojplxtilarrlraulwtlbms.ls.tlbmpptuc”

“A.,l.hen,lkahlnjablMleoj'slpals.oscl'Somj'slromu;lojplxtymptylmrlkah'dd
sukls.myls.mjilvhyslolb.mdtldajitulkah'ddleawtlsaldmntlmsc”

“Dmntlms!lKty--s.tlboklM'pldmntlol.aslysaqtlmrlMlboylsalytslajlmsldaji
tjahi.clJa,lSaw,lMlbaj'slxtlume.,lojplMlbaj'sldmqtlmjls.twlehyytp
ywas.tukl.ahytyclMldmntls.tlbaapy,lojpls.tlumqtu,lojpl.aiy.topy,lojp
M'ddlysmenlsal'tw,lsaaclXdowtlmslodd!lvhysloylbt'pliaslihjy,lojploleoqt,
ojploddlvhyslrmztplsaluax,l.tutls.mylptujlraadmy.jtyyl.oyliaslsaleawtlh 
ojply mdtlmslodd!”

Sawlyobl.myla  aushjmsk--

“Daank.tut,l.hen,lxtmjilume.lomj'sliamjilsalntt lwtlxoenlruawlshujmji
uaxxtuc”

“Ja!lA.,liaap-dmeny;loutlkahlmjlutodlptop-baapltoujtys,lSaw?”

“VhysloylptopltoujtysloylM'wlymssmjil.tutclXhsl.hen,lbtleoj'sldtslkah
mjsals.tliojilmrlkahlomj'sluty tesoxdt,lkahlnjabc”

.hen'ylvaklboylghtje.tpc

“Eoj'sldtslwtlmj,lSaw?lPmpj'slkahldtslwtlialraulol muost?”

“Kty,lxhsls.os'ylpmrrtutjsclOluaxxtulmylwautl.mi.-sajtpls.ojlb.oslo
 muostlmy--oylolitjtuodls.mjiclMjlwaysleahjsumtyls.tk'utlobrhdl.mi.lh lmj
s.tljaxmdmsk--phntylojplyhe.c”

“Jab,lSaw,l.omj'slkahlodbokylxtjlrumtjpdklsalwt?lKahlbahdpj'sly.tslwt
ahs,lbahdplkah,lSaw?lKahlbahdpj'slpals.os,ljab,l_bahdp_lkah,lSaw?”

“.hen,lMlbahdpj'slbojslsa,lojplMl_paj's_lbojslsa--xhslb.oslbahdpl ta dt
yok?lB.k,ls.tk'plyok,l'W .!lSawlYobktu'ylIoji!l utsskldable.ouoestuylmj
ms!'lS.tk'plwtojlkah,l.henclKahlbahdpj'sldmntls.os,lojplMlbahdpj'sc”

.henlboylymdtjslraulyawtlsmwt,ltjioitplmjlolwtjsodlysuhiidtclRmjoddkl.t
yomp:

“Btdd,lM'ddlialxoenlsals.tlbmpptulraulolwajs.lojplsoendtlmslojplyttlmrlM
eojleawtlsalysojplms,lmrlkah'ddldtslwtlx'dajilsals.tlioji,lSawc”

“Oddlumi.s,l.hen,lms'ylolb.mf!lEawtlodaji,ladple.o ,lojplM'ddloynls.t
bmpablsaldtslh lajlkahloldmssdt,l.henc”

“Bmddlkah,lSaw--jablbmddlkah?lS.os'yliaapclMrly.t'ddldtslh lajlyawtlar
s.tluahi.tysls.mjiy,lM'ddlywantl umqostlojplehyyl umqost,lojpleuabp
s.uahi.laulxhysclB.tjlkahliamjilsalysousls.tliojilojplshujluaxxtuy?”

“A.,lumi.slarrclBt'ddlitsls.tlxakylsaits.tulojpl.oqtls.tlmjmsmosmaj
sajmi.s,lwokxtc”

“.oqtls.tlb.me.?”

“.oqtls.tlmjmsmosmajc”

“B.os'yls.os?”

“Ms'ylsalybtoulsalysojplxklajtlojas.tu,lojpljtqtulstddls.tlioji'y
yteutsy,ltqtjlmrlkah'utle.a  tploddlsalrdmjptuy,lojplnmddlojkxapklojp
oddl.mylrowmdkls.osl.husylajtlarls.tliojic”

“S.os'yliok--s.os'ylwmi.skliok,lSaw,lMlstddlkahc”

“Btdd,lMlxtslmslmyclOjploddls.oslybtoumji'yliaslsalxtlpajtloslwmpjmi.s,
mjls.tldajtyawtys,lobrhdtysl doetlkahleojlrmjp--ol.o'jstpl.ahytlmyls.t
xtys,lxhsls.tk'utloddlum  tplh ljabc”

“Btdd,lwmpjmi.s'yliaap,lojkbok,lSawc”

“Kty,lyalmslmyclOjplkah'qtliaslsalybtoulajlolearrmj,lojplymijlmslbms.
xdaapc”

“Jab,ls.os'ylyawts.mjil_dmnt_!lB.k,lms'ylolwmddmajlsmwtylxhddmtuls.oj
 muosmjiclM'ddlysmenlsals.tlbmpptulsmddlMluas,lSaw;lojplmrlMlimslsalxt
oluti'doulum  tularloluaxxtu,lojpltqtukxapklsodnmjil'xahslms,lMlutenaj
y.t'ddlxtl uahply.tlyjontplwtlmjlahslarls.tlbtsc”

EAJEDHYMAJ

YAltjpts.ls.myle.uajmedtclMslxtmjilysumesdklol.mysauklarlol_xak_,lms
whyslysa l.tut;ls.tlysaukleahdpljaslialwhe.lrhus.tulbms.ahslxteawmjils.t
.mysauklarlol_woj_clB.tjlajtlbumstyloljaqtdloxahsliuabjl ta dt,l.tlnjaby
tzoesdklb.tutlsalysa --s.oslmy,lbms.lolwouumoit;lxhslb.tjl.tlbumstylar
vhqtjmdty,l.tlwhyslysa lb.tutl.tlxtysleojc

Wayslarls.tle.ouoestuyls.osl turauwlmjls.mylxaanlysmddldmqt,lojplout
 uay tuahylojpl.o  kclYawtlpoklmslwoklyttwlbaus.lb.mdtlsalsontlh ls.t
ysauklarls.tlkahjitulajtyloiomjlojplyttlb.oslyauslarlwtjlojplbawtjls.tk
shujtplahslsalxt;ls.tutrautlmslbmddlxtlbmytysljaslsalutqtodlojklarls.os
 ouslarls.tmuldmqtylosl utytjsc

Tjplarls.tl uavteslIhstjxtuilTxaanlarlOpqtjshutylarlSawlYobktu,
Eaw dtst,lxklWounlSbomjl(YowhtdlEdtwtjy)

***lTJPlARlS.MYl UAVTESlIHSTJXTUIlTXAANlSAWlYOBKTUl***

*****lS.mylrmdtly.ahdplxtljowtpl74-0cszslaul74-0cfm l*****lS.mylojp
oddloyyaemostplrmdtylarlqoumahylrauwosylbmddlxtlrahjplmj:
.ss ://bbbcihstjxtuicjts/7/74/

 uaphetplxklPoqmplBmpituclS.tl utqmahyltpmsmajlboylh postplxklVayt
Wtjtjptfc

H postpltpmsmajylbmddlut doetls.tl utqmahylajt--s.tladpltpmsmajylbmddlxt
utjowtpc

Eutosmjils.tlbaunylruawl hxdmelpawomjl umjsltpmsmajylwtojyls.osljalajt
abjylolHjmstplYsostylea kumi.slmjls.tytlbauny,lyals.tlRahjposmajl(ojp
kah!)leojlea klojplpmysumxhstlmslmjls.tlHjmstplYsostylbms.ahsl tuwmyymaj
ojplbms.ahsl okmjilea kumi.sluakodsmtyclY temodluhdty,lytslraus.lmj
s.tlItjtuodlStuwylarlHytl ouslarls.myldmetjyt,lo  dklsalea kmjilojp
pmysumxhsmjil uavteslIhstjxtui-swltdtesuajmelbaunylsal uastesls.t
 UAVTESlIHSTJXTUI-swleajet slojplsuoptwouncl uavteslIhstjxtuilmylo
utimystutplsuoptwoun,lojplwokljaslxtlhytplmrlkahle.ouitlrauls.tltXaany,
hjdtyylkahlutetmqtly temrmel tuwmyymajclMrlkahlpaljasle.ouitlojks.mji
raulea mtylarls.myltXaan,leaw dkmjilbms.ls.tluhdtylmylqtukltoykclKah
woklhytls.myltXaanlrauljtoudklojkl hu aytlyhe.loyleutosmajlarlptumqosmqt
bauny,lut ausy,l turauwojetylojplutytoue.clS.tklwoklxtlwapmrmtplojp
 umjstplojplimqtjlobok--kahlwoklpal uoesmeoddklOJKS.MJIlbms.l hxdme
pawomjltXaanyclUtpmysumxhsmajlmylyhxvteslsals.tlsuoptwounldmetjyt,
ty temoddkleawwtuemodlutpmysumxhsmajc

***lYSOUS:lRHDDlDMETJYTl***

S.TlRHDDl UAVTESlIHSTJXTUIlDMETJYTl DTOYTlUTOPlS.MYlXTRAUTlKAH
PMYSUMXHSTlAUlHYTlS.MYlBAUN

Sal uastesls.tl uavteslIhstjxtui-swlwmyymajlarl uawasmjils.tlrutt
pmysumxhsmajlarltdtesuajmelbauny,lxklhymjilaulpmysumxhsmjils.mylbaun
(aulojklas.tulbaunloyyaemostplmjlojklboklbms.ls.tl .uoytl“ uavtes
Ihstjxtui”),lkahloiuttlsaleaw dklbms.loddls.tlstuwylarls.tlRhdd
 uavteslIhstjxtui-swlDmetjytl(oqomdoxdtlbms.ls.mylrmdtlaulajdmjtlos
.ss ://ihstjxtuicjts/dmetjyt)c

Ytesmajl1clItjtuodlStuwylarlHytlojplUtpmysumxhsmjil uavteslIhstjxtui-sw
tdtesuajmelbauny

1cOclXklutopmjilaulhymjilojkl ouslarls.myl uavteslIhstjxtui-sw
tdtesuajmelbaun,lkahlmjpmeostls.oslkahl.oqtlutop,lhjptuysojp,loiutt
salojploeet sloddls.tlstuwylarls.myldmetjytlojplmjstddteshodl ua tusk
(suoptwoun/ea kumi.s)loiuttwtjsclMrlkahlpaljasloiuttlsaloxmptlxkloddls.t
stuwylarls.myloiuttwtjs,lkahlwhysletoytlhymjilojplutshujlaulptysuaklodd
ea mtylarl uavteslIhstjxtui-swltdtesuajmelbaunylmjlkahul ayytyymajc
Mrlkahl omplolrttlraulaxsomjmjilolea klarlauloeetyylsalol uavtes
Ihstjxtui-swltdtesuajmelbaunlojplkahlpaljasloiuttlsalxtlxahjplxkls.t
stuwylarls.myloiuttwtjs,lkahlwoklaxsomjlolutrhjplruawls.tl tuyajlau
tjsmsklsalb.awlkahl ompls.tlrttloylytslraus.lmjl ouoiuo .l1cTc8c

1cXcl“ uavteslIhstjxtui”lmylolutimystutplsuoptwounclMslwoklajdklxtlhytp
ajlauloyyaemostplmjlojklboklbms.lojltdtesuajmelbaunlxkl ta dtlb.aloiutt
salxtlxahjplxkls.tlstuwylarls.myloiuttwtjsclS.tutloutlolrtbls.mjiyls.os
kahleojlpalbms.lwaysl uavteslIhstjxtui-swltdtesuajmelbaunyltqtjlbms.ahs
eaw dkmjilbms.ls.tlrhddlstuwylarls.myloiuttwtjsclYttl ouoiuo .l1cE
xtdabclS.tutloutloldaslarls.mjiylkahleojlpalbms.l uavteslIhstjxtui-sw
tdtesuajmelbaunylmrlkahlraddabls.tlstuwylarls.myloiuttwtjslojpl.td 
 utytuqtlruttlrhshutloeetyylsal uavteslIhstjxtui-swltdtesuajmelbaunyc
Yttl ouoiuo .l1cTlxtdabc

1cEclS.tl uavteslIhstjxtuilDmstuouklOue.mqtlRahjposmajl(“s.tlRahjposmaj”
laul IDOR),labjyloleaw mdosmajlea kumi.slmjls.tleaddtesmajlarl uavtes
Ihstjxtui-swltdtesuajmelbaunyclJtoudkloddls.tlmjpmqmphodlbaunylmj
s.tleaddtesmajloutlmjls.tl hxdmelpawomjlmjls.tlHjmstplYsostyclMrloj
mjpmqmphodlbaunlmylmjls.tl hxdmelpawomjlmjls.tlHjmstplYsostylojplkah
outldaeostplmjls.tlHjmstplYsosty,lbtlpaljasledomwlolumi.slsal utqtjs
kahlruawlea kmji,lpmysumxhsmji,l turauwmji,lpmy dokmjilauleutosmji
ptumqosmqtlbaunylxoytplajls.tlbaunloyldajiloyloddlutrtutjetylsal uavtes
IhstjxtuiloutlutwaqtpclArleahuyt,lbtl.a tls.oslkahlbmddlyh  ausls.t
 uavteslIhstjxtui-swlwmyymajlarl uawasmjilruttloeetyylsaltdtesuajme
baunylxklruttdkly.oumjil uavteslIhstjxtui-swlbaunylmjleaw dmojetlbms.
s.tlstuwylarls.myloiuttwtjslraulntt mjils.tl uavteslIhstjxtui-swljowt
oyyaemostplbms.ls.tlbaunclKahleojltoymdkleaw dklbms.ls.tlstuwylarls.my
oiuttwtjslxklntt mjils.mylbaunlmjls.tlyowtlrauwoslbms.lmsylossoe.tp
rhddl uavteslIhstjxtui-swlDmetjytlb.tjlkahly.outlmslbms.ahsle.ouitlbms.
as.tuyc

1cPclS.tlea kumi.sldobylarls.tl doetlb.tutlkahloutldaeostplodyaliaqtuj
b.oslkahleojlpalbms.ls.mylbaunclEa kumi.sldobylmjlwaysleahjsumtyloutlmj
oleajysojslysostlarle.ojitclMrlkahloutlahsymptls.tlHjmstplYsosty,le.ten
s.tldobylarlkahuleahjsuklmjloppmsmajlsals.tlstuwylarls.myloiuttwtjs
xtrautlpabjdaopmji,lea kmji,lpmy dokmji,l turauwmji,lpmysumxhsmji
auleutosmjilptumqosmqtlbaunylxoytplajls.mylbaunlaulojklas.tul uavtes
Ihstjxtui-swlbaunclS.tlRahjposmajlwontyljalut utytjsosmajyleajetujmji
s.tlea kumi.slysoshylarlojklbaunlmjlojkleahjsuklahsymptls.tlHjmstp
Ysostyc

1cTclHjdtyylkahl.oqtlutwaqtploddlutrtutjetylsal uavteslIhstjxtui:

1cTc1clS.tlraddabmjilytjstjet,lbms.loesmqtldmjnylsa,laulas.tulmwwtpmost
oeetyylsa,ls.tlrhddl uavteslIhstjxtui-swlDmetjytlwhyslo  toul uawmjtjsdk
b.tjtqtulojklea klarlol uavteslIhstjxtui-swlbaunl(ojklbaunlajlb.me.ls.t
 .uoytl“ uavteslIhstjxtui”lo  touy,laulbms.lb.me.ls.tl .uoytl“ uavtes
Ihstjxtui”lmyloyyaemostp)lmyloeetyytp,lpmy doktp,l turauwtp,lqmtbtp,
ea mtplaulpmysumxhstp:

S.myltXaanlmylrauls.tlhytlarlojkajtlojkb.tutlosljaleayslojplbms.lodways
jalutysumesmajylb.osyatqtuclKahlwoklea klms,limqtlmsloboklaulut-hyt
mslhjptuls.tlstuwylarls.tl uavteslIhstjxtuilDmetjytlmjedhptplbms.ls.my
tXaanlaulajdmjtloslbbbcihstjxtuicjts

1cTc2clMrlojlmjpmqmphodl uavteslIhstjxtui-swltdtesuajmelbaunlmylptumqtp
ruawls.tl hxdmelpawomjl(patyljasleajsomjloljasmetlmjpmeosmjils.oslmslmy
 aystplbms.l tuwmyymajlarls.tlea kumi.sl.adptu),ls.tlbaunleojlxtlea mtp
ojplpmysumxhstplsalojkajtlmjls.tlHjmstplYsostylbms.ahsl okmjilojklrtty
aule.ouityclMrlkahloutlutpmysumxhsmjilaul uaqmpmjiloeetyylsalolbaunlbms.
s.tl .uoytl“ uavteslIhstjxtui”loyyaemostplbms.laulo  toumjilajls.tlbaun,
kahlwhysleaw dkltms.tulbms.ls.tlutghmutwtjsylarl ouoiuo .yl1cTc1ls.uahi.
1cTc7laulaxsomjl tuwmyymajlrauls.tlhytlarls.tlbaunlojpls.tl uavtes
Ihstjxtui-swlsuoptwounloylytslraus.lmjl ouoiuo .yl1cTc8laul1cTc9c

1cTc3clMrlojlmjpmqmphodl uavteslIhstjxtui-swltdtesuajmelbaunlmyl aystp
bms.ls.tl tuwmyymajlarls.tlea kumi.sl.adptu,lkahulhytlojplpmysumxhsmaj
whysleaw dklbms.lxas.l ouoiuo .yl1cTc1ls.uahi.l1cTc7lojplojkloppmsmajod
stuwylmw aytplxkls.tlea kumi.sl.adptuclOppmsmajodlstuwylbmddlxtldmjntp
sals.tl uavteslIhstjxtui-swlDmetjytlrauloddlbaunyl aystplbms.ls.t
 tuwmyymajlarls.tlea kumi.sl.adptulrahjplosls.tlxtimjjmjilarls.mylbaunc

1cTc4clPaljaslhjdmjnlaulptsoe.laulutwaqtls.tlrhddl uavteslIhstjxtui-sw
Dmetjytlstuwylruawls.mylbaun,laulojklrmdtyleajsomjmjilol ouslarls.my
baunlaulojklas.tulbaunloyyaemostplbms.l uavteslIhstjxtui-swc

1cTc5clPaljaslea k,lpmy dok,l turauw,lpmysumxhstlaulutpmysumxhst
s.myltdtesuajmelbaun,laulojkl ouslarls.myltdtesuajmelbaun,lbms.ahs
 uawmjtjsdklpmy dokmjils.tlytjstjetlytslraus.lmjl ouoiuo .l1cTc1lbms.
oesmqtldmjnylaulmwwtpmostloeetyylsals.tlrhddlstuwylarls.tl uavtes
Ihstjxtui-swlDmetjytc

1cTc6clKahlwokleajqtuslsalojplpmysumxhstls.mylbaunlmjlojklxmjouk,
eaw utyytp,lwountplh ,ljaj ua umtsouklaul ua umtsouklrauw,lmjedhpmjilojk
baupl uaetyymjilaul.k tustzslrauwcl.abtqtu,lmrlkahl uaqmptloeetyylsalau
pmysumxhstlea mtylarlol uavteslIhstjxtui-swlbaunlmjlolrauwoslas.tu
s.ojl“ domjlQojmddolOYEMM”laulas.tulrauwoslhytplmjls.tlarrmemod
qtuymajl aystplajls.tlarrmemodl uavteslIhstjxtui-swlbtxlymst
(bbbcihstjxtuicjts),lkahlwhys,losljaloppmsmajodleays,lrttlaultz tjyt
sals.tlhytu,l uaqmptlolea k,lolwtojylarltz ausmjilolea k,laulolwtojy
arlaxsomjmjilolea klh ajlutghtys,larls.tlbaunlmjlmsylaumimjodl“ domj
QojmddolOYEMM”laulas.tulrauwclOjklodstujostlrauwoslwhyslmjedhptls.tlrhdd
 uavteslIhstjxtui-swlDmetjytloyly temrmtplmjl ouoiuo .l1cTc1c

1cTc7clPaljasle.ouitlolrttlrauloeetyylsa,lqmtbmji,lpmy dokmji,
 turauwmji,lea kmjilaulpmysumxhsmjilojkl uavteslIhstjxtui-swlbauny
hjdtyylkahleaw dklbms.l ouoiuo .l1cTc8laul1cTc9c

1cTc8clKahlwokle.ouitlolutoyajoxdtlrttlraulea mtylarlaul uaqmpmjiloeetyy
salaulpmysumxhsmjil uavteslIhstjxtui-swltdtesuajmelbaunyl uaqmptpls.os

-lKahl okloluakodsklrttlarl20%larls.tliuayyl uarmsylkahlptumqtlruaw
s.tlhytlarl uavteslIhstjxtui-swlbaunyleodehdostplhymjils.tlwts.aplkah
odutopklhytlsaleodehdostlkahulo  dmeoxdtlsoztyclS.tlrttlmylabtplsals.t
abjtularls.tl uavteslIhstjxtui-swlsuoptwoun,lxhsl.tl.oyloiuttplsalpajost
uakodsmtylhjptuls.myl ouoiuo .lsals.tl uavteslIhstjxtuilDmstuouklOue.mqt
RahjposmajclUakodskl okwtjsylwhyslxtl omplbms.mjl60lpokylraddabmjiltoe.
postlajlb.me.lkahl ut outl(auloutldtioddklutghmutplsal ut out)lkahu
 tumapmelsozlutshujyclUakodskl okwtjsyly.ahdplxtledtoudklwountploylyhe.
ojplytjslsals.tl uavteslIhstjxtuilDmstuouklOue.mqtlRahjposmajlosls.t
opputyyly temrmtplmjlYtesmajl4,l“Mjrauwosmajloxahslpajosmajylsals.t
 uavteslIhstjxtuilDmstuouklOue.mqtlRahjposmajc”

-lKahl uaqmptlolrhddlutrhjplarlojklwajtkl omplxklolhytulb.aljasmrmtylkah
mjlbumsmjil(aulxklt-womd)lbms.mjl30lpokylarlutetm sls.osly/.tlpatyljas
oiuttlsals.tlstuwylarls.tlrhddl uavteslIhstjxtui-swlDmetjytclKah
whyslutghmutlyhe.lolhytulsalutshujlaulptysuakloddlea mtylarls.tlbauny
 ayytyytplmjlol .kymeodlwtpmhwlojplpmyeajsmjhtloddlhytlarlojploddloeetyy
salas.tulea mtylarl uavteslIhstjxtui-swlbaunyc

-lKahl uaqmpt,lmjloeeaupojetlbms.l ouoiuo .l1cRc3,lolrhddlutrhjplar
ojklwajtkl omplraulolbaunlaulolut doetwtjslea k,lmrlolptrteslmjls.t
tdtesuajmelbaunlmylpmyeaqtutplojplut austplsalkahlbms.mjl90lpokylar
utetm slarls.tlbaunc

-lKahleaw dklbms.loddlas.tulstuwylarls.myloiuttwtjslraulrutt
pmysumxhsmajlarl uavteslIhstjxtui-swlbaunyc

1cTc9clMrlkahlbmy.lsale.ouitlolrttlaulpmysumxhstlol uavteslIhstjxtui-sw
tdtesuajmelbaunlauliuah larlbaunylajlpmrrtutjslstuwyls.ojloutlytslraus.
mjls.myloiuttwtjs,lkahlwhyslaxsomjl tuwmyymajlmjlbumsmjilruawlxas.ls.t
 uavteslIhstjxtuilDmstuouklOue.mqtlRahjposmajlojplWme.otdl.ous,ls.t
abjtularls.tl uavteslIhstjxtui-swlsuoptwounclEajsoesls.tlRahjposmajloy
ytslraus.lmjlYtesmajl3lxtdabc

1cRc

1cRc1cl uavteslIhstjxtuilqadhjsttuylojpltw dakttyltz tjpleajymptuoxdt
trrauslsalmptjsmrk,lpalea kumi.slutytoue.laj,lsuojyeumxtlojpl uaarutop
 hxdmelpawomjlbaunylmjleutosmjils.tl uavteslIhstjxtui-swleaddtesmajc
Pty mstls.tytltrrausy,l uavteslIhstjxtui-swltdtesuajmelbauny,lojpls.t
wtpmhwlajlb.me.ls.tklwoklxtlysautp,lwokleajsomjl“Ptrtesy,”lyhe.loy,lxhs
jasldmwmstplsa,lmjeaw dtst,lmjoeehuostlauleauuh slposo,lsuojyeum smaj
tuuauy,lolea kumi.slaulas.tulmjstddteshodl ua tusklmjrumjitwtjs,lo
ptrtesmqtlaulpowoitplpmynlaulas.tulwtpmhw,loleaw hstulqmuhy,lauleaw hstu
eaptyls.oslpowoitlauleojjaslxtlutoplxklkahultghm wtjsc

1cRc2clDMWMSTPlBOUUOJSK,lPMYEDOMWTUlARlPOWOITY-lTzet slrauls.tl“Umi.s
arlUt doetwtjslaulUtrhjp”lptyeumxtplmjl ouoiuo .l1cRc3,ls.tl uavtes
IhstjxtuilDmstuouklOue.mqtlRahjposmaj,ls.tlabjtularls.tl uavtes
Ihstjxtui-swlsuoptwoun,lojplojklas.tul ousklpmysumxhsmjilol uavtes
Ihstjxtui-swltdtesuajmelbaunlhjptuls.myloiuttwtjs,lpmyedomwlodd
dmoxmdmsklsalkahlraulpowoity,leaysylojpltz tjyty,lmjedhpmjildtiodlrttyc
KAHlOIUTTlS.OSlKAHl.OQTlJAlUTWTPMTYlRAUlJTIDMITJET,lYSUMESlDMOXMDMSK,
XUTOE.lARlBOUUOJSKlAUlXUTOE.lARlEAJSUOESlTZET SlS.AYTl UAQMPTPlMJ
 OUOIUO .lR3clKAHlOIUTTlS.OSlS.TlRAHJPOSMAJ,lS.TlSUOPTWOUNlABJTU,lOJP
OJKlPMYSUMXHSAUlHJPTUlS.MYlOIUTTWTJSlBMDDlJASlXTlDMOXDTlSAlKAHlRAU
OESHOD,lPMUTES,lMJPMUTES,lEAJYTGHTJSMOD,l HJMSMQTlAUlMJEMPTJSODlPOWOITY
TQTJlMRlKAHlIMQTlJASMETlARlS.Tl AYYMXMDMSKlARlYHE.lPOWOITc

1cRc3clDMWMSTPlUMI.SlARlUT DOETWTJSlAUlUTRHJP-lMrlkahlpmyeaqtulolptrtes
mjls.myltdtesuajmelbaunlbms.mjl90lpokylarlutetmqmjilms,lkahleojlutetmqt
olutrhjplarls.tlwajtkl(mrlojk)lkahl omplraulmslxklytjpmjilolbumsstj
tz dojosmajlsals.tl tuyajlkahlutetmqtpls.tlbaunlruawclMrlkahlutetmqtp
s.tlbaunlajlol .kymeodlwtpmhw,lkahlwhyslutshujls.tlwtpmhwlbms.lkahu
bumsstjltz dojosmajclS.tl tuyajlaultjsmskls.osl uaqmptplkahlbms.ls.t
ptrtesmqtlbaunlwokltdteslsal uaqmptlolut doetwtjslea klmjldmthlarlo
utrhjpclMrlkahlutetmqtpls.tlbaunltdtesuajmeoddk,ls.tl tuyajlaultjsmsk
 uaqmpmjilmslsalkahlwokle.aaytlsalimqtlkahlolyteajpla  aushjmsklsa
utetmqtls.tlbaunltdtesuajmeoddklmjldmthlarlolutrhjpclMrls.tlyteajplea k
mylodyalptrtesmqt,lkahlwoklptwojplolutrhjplmjlbumsmjilbms.ahslrhus.tu
a  aushjmsmtylsalrmzls.tl uaxdtwc

1cRc4clTzet slrauls.tldmwmstplumi.slarlut doetwtjslaulutrhjplytslraus.
mjl ouoiuo .l1cRc3,ls.mylbaunlmyl uaqmptplsalkahl'OY-MY'lBMS.lJAlAS.TU
BOUUOJSMTYlARlOJKlNMJP,lTZ UTYYlAUlMW DMTP,lMJEDHPMJIlXHSlJASlDMWMSTPlSA
BOUUOJSMTYlARlWTUE.OJSMXMDMSKlAUlRMSJTYYlRAUlOJKl HU AYTc

1cRc5clYawtlysostylpaljasloddablpmyedomwtuylarletusomjlmw dmtp
bouuojsmtylauls.tltzedhymajlauldmwmsosmajlarletusomjlsk tylarlpowoityc
Mrlojklpmyedomwtulauldmwmsosmajlytslraus.lmjls.myloiuttwtjslqmadostyls.t
doblarls.tlysostlo  dmeoxdtlsals.myloiuttwtjs,ls.tloiuttwtjsly.oddlxt
mjstu utstplsalwontls.tlwozmwhwlpmyedomwtulauldmwmsosmajl tuwmsstplxk
s.tlo  dmeoxdtlysostldobclS.tlmjqodmpmsklaulhjtjrauetoxmdmsklarlojk
 uaqmymajlarls.myloiuttwtjsly.oddljaslqampls.tlutwomjmjil uaqmymajyc

1cRc6clMJPTWJMSK-lKahloiuttlsalmjptwjmrklojpl.adpls.tlRahjposmaj,
s.tlsuoptwounlabjtu,lojkloitjslaultw dakttlarls.tlRahjposmaj,lojkajt
 uaqmpmjilea mtylarl uavteslIhstjxtui-swltdtesuajmelbaunylmjloeeaupojet
bms.ls.myloiuttwtjs,lojplojklqadhjsttuyloyyaemostplbms.ls.tl uaphesmaj,
 uawasmajlojplpmysumxhsmajlarl uavteslIhstjxtui-swltdtesuajmelbauny,
.ouwdtyylruawloddldmoxmdmsk,leaysylojpltz tjyty,lmjedhpmjildtiodlrtty,
s.osloumytlpmutesdklaulmjpmutesdklruawlojklarls.tlraddabmjilb.me.lkahlpa
auleohytlsalaeehu:l(o)lpmysumxhsmajlarls.mylaulojkl uavteslIhstjxtui-sw
baun,l(x)lodstuosmaj,lwapmrmeosmaj,lauloppmsmajylaulptdtsmajylsalojk
 uavteslIhstjxtui-swlbaun,lojpl(e)lojklPtrteslkahleohytc

Ytesmajl2clMjrauwosmajloxahsls.tlWmyymajlarl uavteslIhstjxtui-sw

 uavteslIhstjxtui-swlmylykjajkwahylbms.ls.tlruttlpmysumxhsmajlar
tdtesuajmelbaunylmjlrauwosylutopoxdtlxkls.tlbmptyslqoumtsklarleaw hstuy
mjedhpmjilaxyadtst,ladp,lwmppdt-oitplojpljtbleaw hstuyclMsltzmysy
xteohytlarls.tltrrausylarl.hjputpylarlqadhjsttuylojplpajosmajylruaw
 ta dtlmjloddlbodnylarldmrtc

Qadhjsttuylojplrmjojemodlyh  auslsal uaqmptlqadhjsttuylbms.ls.t
oyymysojetls.tkljttp,lmyleumsmeodlsalutoe.mjil uavteslIhstjxtui-sw'y
iaodylojpltjyhumjils.osls.tl uavteslIhstjxtui-swleaddtesmajlbmddlutwomj
ruttdkloqomdoxdtlraulitjtuosmajylsaleawtclMjl2001,ls.tl uavteslIhstjxtui
DmstuouklOue.mqtlRahjposmajlboyleutostplsal uaqmptlolytehutlojp
 tuwojtjslrhshutlraul uavteslIhstjxtui-swlojplrhshutlitjtuosmajyclSa
dtoujlwautloxahsls.tl uavteslIhstjxtuilDmstuouklOue.mqtlRahjposmajlojp
.ablkahultrrausylojplpajosmajyleojl.td ,lyttlYtesmajyl3lojpl4lojpls.t
Rahjposmajlbtxl oitlosl.ss ://bbbc idorcauic

Ytesmajl3clMjrauwosmajloxahsls.tl uavteslIhstjxtuilDmstuouklOue.mqt
Rahjposmaj

S.tl uavteslIhstjxtuilDmstuouklOue.mqtlRahjposmajlmyloljajl uarms
501(e)(3)ltpheosmajodleau auosmajlauiojmftplhjptuls.tldobylarls.tlysost
arlWmyymyym  mlojpliuojstplsozltztw slysoshylxkls.tlMjstujodlUtqtjht
YtuqmetclS.tlRahjposmaj'ylTMJlaulrtptuodlsozlmptjsmrmeosmajljhwxtu
myl64-6221541clMsyl501(e)(3)ldtsstulmyl aystplos
.ss :// idorcaui/rhjpuomymjiclEajsumxhsmajylsals.tl uavteslIhstjxtui
DmstuouklOue.mqtlRahjposmajloutlsozlptphesmxdtlsals.tlrhddltzstjs
 tuwmsstplxklHcYclrtptuodldobylojplkahulysost'yldobyc

S.tlRahjposmaj'yl umjem odlarrmetlmyldaeostplosl4557lWtdojlPuclYc
Romuxojny,lON,l99712c,lxhslmsylqadhjsttuylojpltw dakttyloutlyeosstutp
s.uahi.ahsljhwtuahyldaeosmajyclMsylxhymjtyylarrmetlmyldaeostplos
809lJaus.l1500lBtys,lYodslDontlEmsk,lHSl84116,l(801)l596-1887,
twomdlxhymjtyy@ idorcauiclTwomdleajsoesldmjnylojplh lsalpostleajsoes
mjrauwosmajleojlxtlrahjplosls.tlRahjposmaj'ylbtxlymstlojplarrmemodl oit
osl.ss :// idorcaui

Rauloppmsmajodleajsoeslmjrauwosmaj:lPuclIutiauklXclJtbxklE.mtrlTztehsmqt
ojplPmutesaulixjtbxk@ idorcaui

Ytesmajl4clMjrauwosmajloxahslPajosmajylsals.tl uavteslIhstjxtuilDmstuouk
Oue.mqtlRahjposmaj

 uavteslIhstjxtui-swlpt tjpylh ajlojpleojjaslyhuqmqtlbms.ahslbmptly utop
 hxdmelyh  auslojplpajosmajylsaleouuklahslmsylwmyymajlarlmjeutoymji
s.tljhwxtularl hxdmelpawomjlojpldmetjytplbaunyls.osleojlxtlruttdk
pmysumxhstplmjlwoe.mjtlutopoxdtlrauwloeetyymxdtlxkls.tlbmptyslouuok
arltghm wtjslmjedhpmjilahspostpltghm wtjsclWojklywoddlpajosmajyl($1lsa
$5,000)loutl ousmehdoudklmw ausojslsalwomjsomjmjilsozltztw slysoshylbms.
s.tlMUYc

S.tlRahjposmajlmyleawwmsstplsaleaw dkmjilbms.ls.tldobylutihdosmji
e.oumsmtylojple.oumsoxdtlpajosmajylmjloddl50lysostylarls.tlHjmstp
YsostyclEaw dmojetlutghmutwtjsyloutljaslhjmrauwlojplmslsontylo
eajymptuoxdtltrraus,lwhe.l o tubaunlojplwojklrttylsalwttslojplntt lh 
bms.ls.tytlutghmutwtjsyclBtlpaljaslyadmemslpajosmajylmjldaeosmajy
b.tutlbtl.oqtljaslutetmqtplbumsstjleajrmuwosmajlarleaw dmojetclSalYTJP
PAJOSMAJYlaulptstuwmjtls.tlysoshylarleaw dmojetlraulojkl ousmehdoulysost
qmymsl.ss :// idorcaui

B.mdtlbtleojjaslojplpaljaslyadmemsleajsumxhsmajylruawlysostylb.tutlbt
.oqtljaslwtsls.tlyadmemsosmajlutghmutwtjsy,lbtlnjablarljal ua.mxmsmaj
oiomjysloeet smjilhjyadmemstplpajosmajylruawlpajauylmjlyhe.lysostylb.a
o  uaoe.lhylbms.larrtuylsalpajostc

Mjstujosmajodlpajosmajyloutliuostrhddkloeet stp,lxhslbtleojjaslwontlojk
ysostwtjsyleajetujmjilsozlsutoswtjslarlpajosmajylutetmqtplruawlahsympt
s.tlHjmstplYsostyclHcYcldobylodajtlybow lahulywoddlysorrc

 dtoytle.tenls.tl uavteslIhstjxtuilBtxl oitylraulehuutjslpajosmaj
wts.apylojplopputyytyclPajosmajyloutloeet stplmjloljhwxtularlas.tulboky
mjedhpmjilmjedhpmjile.teny,lajdmjtl okwtjsylojpleutpmsleouplpajosmajyc
Salpajost,l dtoytlqmyms:l.ss :// idorcaui/pajost

Ytesmajl5clItjtuodlMjrauwosmajlOxahsl uavteslIhstjxtui-swltdtesuajme
baunyc

 uartyyaulWme.otdlYcl.ouslmyls.tlaumimjosaularls.tl uavteslIhstjxtui-sw
eajet slarloldmxuouklarltdtesuajmelbaunyls.osleahdplxtlruttdkly.outp
bms.lojkajtclRauls.musklktouy,l.tl uaphetplojplpmysumxhstpl uavtes
Ihstjxtui-swltXaanylbms.lajdkloldaaytljtsbaunlarlqadhjsttulyh  ausc

 uavteslIhstjxtui-swltXaanyloutlarstjleutostplruawlytqtuodl umjstp
tpmsmajy,loddlarlb.me.loutleajrmuwtployl hxdmelPawomjlmjls.tlHcYclhjdtyy
olea kumi.sljasmetlmylmjedhptpclS.hy,lbtlpaljasljtetyyoumdklntt ltXaany
mjleaw dmojetlbms.lojkl ousmehdoul o tultpmsmajc

Waysl ta dtlysousloslahulBtxlymstlb.me.l.oyls.tlwomjl Ilytoue.lroemdmsk:

.ss ://bbbcihstjxtuicjts

S.mylBtxlymstlmjedhptylmjrauwosmajloxahsl uavteslIhstjxtui-sw,lmjedhpmji
.ablsalwontlpajosmajylsals.tl uavteslIhstjxtuilDmstuouklOue.mqt
Rahjposmaj,l.ablsal.td l uaphetlahuljtbltXaany,lojpl.ablsalyhxyeumxtlsa
ahultwomdljtbydtsstulsal.touloxahsljtbltXaanyc


